Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2016  with  funding  from 

University  of  Illinois  Urbana-Champaign  Alternates 


https://archive.org/details/peopleshomelibraOObarn 


LIBRARY 


OF 


THREE 

PRACTICAL 

BOOKS 


THE 

PEOPLES 

HOME 

MEDICAL 

BOOK 

BY 

TJ.RITTERM.D. 


THE 

PEOPLE’S 

HOME 

RECIPE 

BOOK 

BY 

MRSALICEG.KIRK, 


THE 

PEOPLE’S 

HOME 

STOCK 

BOOK 

BY 

W.C.FAIR  V.5. 


COMPILED  BY 

R.C.  BARNUN 

PRES.OFTliE  R.C.BARNUM  PUB. CO. 
PUBLISHED  BY 

THE  R.C.BARNUn  CO. 

CLEVELAND,  OHIO. 

IQ13 


Copyrighted  1910, 

BY 

R.  C.  BARXUM. 

All  Rights  Reserved. 

Copyrighted  1913, 

BY 

THE  R.  C.  BARXUM  COMP  AX  V 


NOTE. 

This  is  strictly  a subscription  book  and  is  not  and  will  not  be 
sold  in  stores.  If  a book  is  desired,  and  there  is  no  ap:ent  in  the 
territory,  it  may  be  obtained  directly  from  the  publishers  at  the 
regular  subscription  price.  The  best  terms  are  offered  to  reliable 
agents.  Address — The  R.  C.  Barnum  Co.,  Publishers, 

Cleveland,  Ofiio 


COMPILER’S  PREFACE. 


“ The  People’s  Home  Library  ” is  a set  of  three  practical  books,  the  aim 
being  to  give  the  purchaser  a complete  library  of  practical  information  and  thus 
save  his  buying  three  different  books.  The  compiler  was  raised  in  the  country 
but  for  nine  years  he  has  been  engaged  in  selling  various  receipt  books  and  in 
training  others  to  do  the  same.  This  has  given  him  an  excellent  opportunity, 
not  only  to  know  the  needs  of  the  People  in  these  lines  but  to  study  the  defects 
and  the  good  points  of  most  books  of  this  nature  that  are  being  offered  the 
public.  We  have  tried  to  avoid  the  mistakes  of  others,  incorporate  their  good 
points  and  at  the  same  time  add  many  new  features.  For  nearly  nine  years 
we  have  been  gathering  valuable  receipts  and  planning  this  set  of  books.  It 
has  been  our  constant  aim  to  make  this  the  most  practical  set  of  books  of  this 
nature  ever  published.  We  have  been  exceedingly  fortunate  in  securing  authors, 
not  only  of  the  highest  professional  standing  and  of  national  reputation,  but  of 
the  highest  personal  standing  in  their  own  communities.  They  are  authors  whose 
characters  command  the  respect  and  confidence  of  all  who  know  them  and  this 
is  of  the  utmost  importance  in  books  of  this  kind  which  are  to  become  house- 
hold guides  in  a million  homes. 

“ The  People’s  Home  Library  ” is  essentially  the  People’s  book.  It  was 
not  only  intended  for  the  People  but  the  People  themselves  helped  compile  it 
by  contributing  the  “ People’s  Home  Remedies  ” which  they  have  used  in  their 
homes  for  years  and  which  they  know  to  be  good.  These  remedies  and  receipts 
have  been  gathered  from  the  whole  world  over  and  much  credit  is  due  the 
authors  for  their  great  care  and  patience  in  correcting  these  receipts  and  adding 
many  helpful  suggestions.  Every  receipt  in  this  book  has  been  thoroughly 
teked  and  tried  and  found  to  be  good.  The  authors  have  most  heartily  joined 
with  the  compiler  in  an  earnest  effort  to  make  this  in  truth  a most  practical  book 
for  the  People  and  we  trust  it  will  prove  a real  money-saver  in  the  home.  We 
believe  we  have  succeeded  in  our  undertaking  and  we  therefore  take  pleasure 
in  commending  this  book  to  the  “ People,”  who  have  so  generously  contributed 
their  favorite  receipts  and  thus  made  it  possible  to  compile  such  a work  as  ” The 
People’s  Home  Library.” 

Sincerely, 

R.  C.  Barnum. 


DEDICATION. 

THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  LIBRARY 

BEING  A SET  OF  BOOKS 

BY  THE  PEOPLE  AND  FOR  THE  PEOPLE” 

IS  MOST  RESPECTFULLY  DEDICATED 

TO  THE  PEOPLE. 


“ May  it  serve  them  well 
in  their  hour  of  need.” 


y 


BOOK  I 
or  THE 
PEOPLE’S 
HOME 
LIBRARY 


BY 

TJ.  RITTER  M.D. 

GRADUATE  OF  BOTH  THE  ALLOPATHIC 
AND  HOHEOPATHIC  SCHOOLS. 
FORMERLY  ASS’T. TO  THE  CHAIR  OF  THE 
THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  MEDICINE, 
MICHIGAN  STATE  UNIVERSITY, 
ANN  ARDOR,MICH. 


PUBLISHED  BY 

THE  R.C.BARNUM  CO. 

CLEVELAND,  OHIO. 


IQ13 


Copyrighted  1910, 

BY 

R.  C.  BARNUM. 

All  Rights  Reserved, 


AUTHOR’S  PREFACE. 


Many  so-called  “ home  medical  books  ” have  been  published.  While- 
many  of  them  have  done  much  good  the  fault  with  most  of  them  has  been? 
either  that  they  were  too  technical  and  thus  not  a home  book  at  all  or,  that 
many  of  the  remedies  given  were  unreliable  or  perhaps  even  dangerous. 

The  aim  has  been  to  make  this  work  thoroughly  scientific  and  authentic 
and  yet  so  simple  and  practical  that  it  can  be  used  in  the  humblest  home^ 
In  its  preparation  the  very  best  medical  authorities  of  this  and  foreign 
countries  have  been  freely  read  and  consulted.  In  giving  the  description 
and  symptoms  of  diseases  such  men  as  the  followdng  are  our  authorities:: 
Professor  Osier,  formerly  of  Johns  Hopkins  and  now  of  Oxford;  Professoir 
Anders  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  and  Professor  Hare  of  Jefiferson 
Medical  College,  Philadelphia. 

In  the  preparation  of  the  parts  of  the  work  relating  to  surgery  we  have- 
consulted  such  as  W.  W.  Keen,  Professor  of  Surgery  in  Jefferson  MedicaL 
College  and  also  J.  William  White,  Professor  of  Clinical  Surgery  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Pennsylvania.  Both  of  these  men  are  editors  of  the  American  Text 
Book  of  Surgery. 

In  treating  of  the  diseases  of  women  we  are  especially  indebted  to  the- 
work  of  Professor  Charles  B.  Penrose  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

In  the  treatment  of  the  diseases  of  children  and  in  writing  the  chaptejr 
entitled  “ All  About  the  Mother  and  Her  Baby  ” the  best  children’s  spec- 
ialists in  the  country  have  been  read  and  consulted.  This  list  of  specialists- 
includes  both  Koplik  and  Holt  of  New  York,  Douglas  of  Detroit  and  Tooketr- 
of  Chicago. 

In  preparing  the  Herb  Department  the  works'  most  consulted  were- 
those  of  Dr.  Shoemaker  and  Dr.  Wood,  both  of  Philadelphia  and  Dr.  King;,, 
who  was  compiler  of  “ King’s  Eclectic  Dispensatory.” 

These  men  are  all  specialists  in  their  particular  lines  and  are  recog- 
nized as  authorities  by  physicians  all  over  the  world.  Besides  the  merit 
named  many  other  authorities  have  freely  been  brought  into  use. 

A special  feature  of  the  work  'is  The  People’s  Home  Remedies. 
These  follow  the  physician’s  treatment  of  the  disease  and  will  be  found  the 
most  valuable  collection  of  simple  home  remedies  ever  published.  These' 
have  been  gathered  from  all  parts  of  the  world  and  are  universally  in  use 
among  the  people.  These  are  not  merely  what  someone  “ thought  ” would 
cure,  they  are  the  “ Mother’s  Remedies  ” that  actually  do  cure.  They  have- 
all  been  carefully  gone  over  by  myself  a number  of  times  and  among  them? 
I have  recognized  hundreds  of  home  remedies  that  I have  myself  used  irs 
my  many  years  of  medical  practice  and  often  I have  seen  fit  to  add  incidents 
and  remarks  citing  cases  where  these  home  remedies  have  cured  and  ex- 
plaining why  they  cured.  Only  the  very  best  have  been  saved  for  this  work- 
and  after  having  had  over  thirty  years  of  experience  as  a practicing  physi- 
cian I can  pronounce  them  absolutely  safe  and  reliable.  Truly  this  is  The 

(U 


11 


PREFACE. 


People’s  Book  for  it  was  not  only  written  for  the  people  but  the  people  them- 
selves helped  get  it  up. 

Realizing  that  not  all  diseases  can  be  treated  at  home  we  have  endeav- 
ored to  make  it  clear  when  a physician  is  necessary  and  have  advised  send- 
ing for  him  in  such  cases.  That  the  book  may  be  practical  we  have  seen 
fit  to  give  first  place  to  “ Nursing  ” and  have  given  both  general  and  special 
instructions  as  to  “ Nursing  and  Diet  ” together  with  full  directions  as  to 
the  use  of  home-aids  and  auxiliary  treatments.  We  not  only  tell  “ What  To 
Do  ” but,  what  is  often  of  equal  importance,  we  tell  “ What  Not  To  Do.” 
Special  attention  has  also  been  given  to  Preventive  Treatments  for  is  it 
not  better  to  prevent  a disease  than  to  wait  until  you  get  it  and  then  try  to 
cure  it? 

My  connection  with  the  state  Urxiversity  of  Michigan  as  Assistant  to 
the  Chair  of  the  Theory  and  Practice  of  Medicine  is  perhaps  a sufficient  guar- 
antee of  the  reliability  of  this  book  and  my  experience  in  the  hospital  together 
with  over  thirty  years  of  actual  medical  practice  have  perhaps  rendered  me 
competent  to  make  the  work  thoroughly  practical. 

It  has  been  my  aim  to  make  this  work  so  reliable  that  it  will  be  recom- 
mended by  every  physician  in  the  land  and  yet  so  practical  that  it  will  be 
used  in  every  home  throughout  the  country. 


THE  AUTHOR. 


CONTENTS 


'Author's  Preface I 

Nursing  Department  1 

Infectious  and  Contagious  Diseases 45 

Diseases  of  the  Lungs^  Bronchial  Tubes  and  Air  Passages 95 

Diseases  of  the  Heart,  Arteries  andVeins 127 

Diseases  of  the  Blood  136 

Diseases  of  the  Stomach  and  Intestines 143 

Diseases  of  the  Liver  170 

Diseases  of  the  Kidneys  and  Bladder  176 

Diseases  of  the  Nervous  System  1S7 

Constitutional  Diseases  211 

Skin  Diseases  218 

Diseases  Due  to  Animal  Parasites  239 

Diseases  of  the  Eye,  Ear,  Nose,  Throat  and  Mouth 242 

Deformities,  Malignant  Growths  and  Operations  262 

Poisons  266 

The  People's  Prescriptions  for  Liniments,  Oils,  Salves,  Plasters, 

Ointments,  Poultices,  Etc 275 

Patent  Medicines 286 

Herb  Department  304 

A Chapter  for  Men  359 

Woman's  Department  364 

All  About  the  Mother  and  Her  Baby 403 

Uses  of  Some  Simple  Home  Remedies 438 

Supplement  441 

Index  444 


in 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


PAGE 

Portrait  of  T.  J.  Ritter,  M.  D Frontispiece 

^IfespiTALS  AND  Medical  Buildings  OF  MICHIGAN  State  UNIVERSITY  Opposite  I 

'CHARTS  OF  Symptoms  (Male,  2 Cuts) Opposite  2 

Charts  of  Symptoms  (Female,  2 Cuts) Opposite  4 

^Hospital  Methods  of  Bandaging  (Seven  Cuts)  Opposite  36 

•Scarlet  Fever  Opposite  48 

Measles  Opposite  52 

Chicken-Pox  Opposite  56 

Small- Pox  Opposite  58 

'Digestive  Organs  Opposite  143 

Head  and  Neck  Opposite  242 

COMMON  HERBS  USED  AS  MEDICINES  Opposite  323 

Dandelion  Opposite  323 

Stramonium  or  Thorn  Apple  Opposite  323 

Henbane  or  Poison  Tobacco  Opposite  323 

Iris  or  Blue  Flag  Opposite  323 

Hops  Opposite  323 

ILily  of  the  Valley  Opposite  323 

CX)MMON  HERBS  USED  AS  MEDICINES  Opposite  329 

Liverwort  or  Hepatica  Opposite  329 

Beth  Root  or  Nodding  Wake-Robin  Opposite  329 

Black  Cohosh  or  Squaw  Root  Opposite  329 

Lobelia  or  Indian  Tobacco  Opposite  329 

Pennyroyal  Opposite  329 

’Poison  Hemlock  Opposite  329 

C'DMMON  HERBS  USED  AS  MEDICINES  Opposite  352 

Crowfoot  or  Cranesbill  Opposite  352 

Blood  Root  or  Red  Puccoon Opposite  352 

White  Oak  Opposite  352 

Trailing  Arbutus  or  IMountain  Pink  Opposite  352 

Digitalis  or  Foxglove  Opposite  352 

(^Indian  Turnip  or  Jack  in-the-Pulpit  Opposite  352 


iv 


HOSPITALS  AND  MEDICAL  BUILDINGS  OF  MICHIGAN  STATE  UNIVERSITY. 

Ritter  was  formerly  Assistant  to  the  Chair  of  the  Theory  and  Practice  of  Medicine  at  Michigan  State  University  at 

Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT 


QUALITIES  OF  A GOOD  NURSE. 

The  nurse  is  now  an  important  factor  in  the  treatment  of  diseases. 
Nurses  are  born,  not  made.  Some  people  can  never  become  nurses.  A 
good  nurse  is  a combination  of  many  qualities.  She  needs  to  be  healthy, 
clean,  strong,  pleasant,  tactful,  obedient,  cheerful,  and  in  love  with  her  work. 
She  should  not  be  given  to  gossip  and  should  have  a great  big  heart  filled 
with  good  things.  She  needs  to  know  enough  to  follow  the  doctor’s  direc- 
tions and,  also,  to  be  able  to  meet  emergencies  when  the  doctor  is  not 
present  and  cannot  be  reached.  She  should  know  something  of  the  symp- 
toms of  diseases  and  to  aid  in  this  we  herewith  give  a table  of  symptoms 
that  we  believe  will  be  found  valuable  in  every  home. 

TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS. 

Color  of  Skin. 

Yellow. — Generally  means  jaundice. 

Sallow  Yellow. — When  patient  is  haggard  and  emaciated  means  some  ma- 
lignant disease  like  cancer. 

Waxy  Pale  Skin. — With  swelling  under  eyes  indicates  Bright’s  disease. 
Paleness.— Is  caused  by  shock  or  loss  of  blood. 

Whiteness. — Means  anemia.  Small  quantity  of  blood  and  of  poor  quality. 
Greenish  White. — Shows  chlorosis  which  is  commonly  called  green  sickness. 
Purplish. — Cyanosis  or  mixture  of  pure  and  impure  blood.  Blood  not  prop- 
erly purified. 

Bronze. — Addison’s  disease. 

Hectic  or  Red  Cheeks. — Means  tuberculous  constitution. 

Single  Red  Cheek. — When  seen  with  fan-like  motion  of  wings  of  nose  when 
breathing  indicates  pneumonia. 

Bluish  or  Inky  Lips  and  Tongue. — Addison’s  disease. 

Tongue. 

Strawberry  Tongue. — Scarlet  fever.  First  looks  like  an  unripe  and  later  like 
a ripe  strawberry. 

Yellowish  Brown. — Liver  Trouble. 

Whitish  with  Thick  Coating. — LTsually  some  stomach  trouble. 

Dry,  Red,  Dark  and  Cracked  and  Teeth  Covered  with  Coating. — Generally 
means  typhoid  fever. 

Coated  on  Back  Part. — Dyspepsia  and  constipation. 

Cracked  and  Red. — Last  stages  of  peritonitis. 

Bluish  or  Inky  Tongue  and  Lips. — Addison’s  disease. 

Rash. 

Scarlet  Color. — Scarlet  fever. 

Blotchy  and  Muddy. — Measles. 

Scattered  Raised  Spots  with  Whitish  Pimples. — Chicken-pox. 

Spots  Containing  Water  and  Pus.— Small-pox. 


z 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Spitting. 

Glairy  Mucus. — Catarrh. 

Dark  Blood,  Spitting  or  Vomiting. — Hemorrhage  or  bleeding  from  stomach. 
Frothy,  Red  Blood,  Spitting  or  Vomiting. — Hemorrhage  or  bleeding  from 
lungs  or  lower  bronchial  tubes. 

Vomiting. 

Yellow  or  Green  Material. — Usually  shows  bile. 

Coffee  Grounds. — Malignant  growth ; probably  cancer  of  stomach. 

Dark  Blood. — Bleeding  from  Stomach. 

Red,  Frothy  Blood. — Bleeding  from  lungs. 

Feces  (with  odor). — Shows  vomiting  of  contents  of  upper  bowel.  Probably 
due  to  obstruction  of  bowel. 

Projectile  (vomiting  with  force). — Usually  means  meningitis. 

Dark  Acid  Brown. — Peritonitis. 


Bloating. 

Of  Stomach. — Indigestion.  Dilated  stomach. 

Under  Eyes. — Kidney  trouble. 

Of  Face. — Kidney  trouble.  Heart  trouble.  Poor  condition  generally. 
Of  Abdomen. — Cirrhosis  or  hardening  of  liver.  Tumors  of  ovaries,  etc. 
Of  Legs  and  Feet. — Kidney  trouble.  Often  from  pressure  on  veins. 


Sore  Throat. 

Red  in  Back  Part  of  Throat. — Pharyngitis. 

“ Whitish-yellowish-brown  ” or  Grayish  Spots  or  Membrane  on  Tonsils. — Ton- 
silitis  or  diphtheria.  If  membrane  is  removed  in  diphtheria  surface  is 
left  raw  and  bleeding  but  not  in  tonsilitis. 

Fever. 

Fever. — Shows  rise  in  temperature.  Found  in  inflammatory  diseases  such  as 
tonsilitis,  gastritis,  appendicitis,  etc.  Also  in  infectious  diseases  such  as 
diphtheria,  scarlet  fever,  typhoid  fever,  etc.  Also  in  acute  rheumatism, 
pleurisy,  pneumonia,  nephritis,  etc. 

Chill. 

Chill. — Indicates  lower  external  temperature.  Found  in  malaria,  grip,  pneu- 
monia, nervousness,  etc. 

Cough. 

Coughing. — Is  often  due  to  irritation  from  dust  or  smoking;  also,  to  nervous- 
ness and  indigestion. 

Dry,  Hacking  Cough. — May  mean  consumption. 

Coarse,  Barking  Cough. — Whooping  cough. 

Spasmodic  Coughing. — Whooping  cough  or  laryngitis. 

Loose  Cough. — Due  to  mucus  in  air  passages. 


CHARTS  OF  SYMPTOMS. 

(See  Index  for  Diseases  and  their  Treatments.) 


i 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


3 


Cry  of  Child. 

Crying. — Usually  indicates  pain  or  anger. 

Boisterous,  Temporary  Cry. — Anger. 

Catchy,  Jerky  Cry. — Pain. 

Moaning,  Wailing  Cry. — Disease. 

Stools. 

Greenish. — Improper  feeding,  usually  in  children. 

Bloody  and  Slimy. — Dysentery,  piles  or  ulcers  of  bowels. 

Watery. — Generally  in  cholera  infantum. 

Frequent. — Diarrhoea. 

Infrequent. — Constipation. 

Urine. 

Bloody. — Hemorrhage  or  bleeding  from  kidneys. 

Pale. — Generally  nervousness.  May  be  diabetes  insipidus. 

White. — Generally  from  deposits  of  white  gravel. 

Brick  Dust. — Indicates  uric  acid  deposits. 

Swellings. 

Under  Jaw. — Enlarged  glands. 

Side  of  Jaw  in  Front  of  Ear. — Mumps. 

Front  of  Neck. — rGoitre. 

At  Joints. — Enlarged  bursa  (joint  oil).  Particularly  at  wrist. 

Eyes. 

Red  and  Inflamed. — Inflammation  of  eyes. 

Rolling  of  Eyes. — Generally  caused  by  brain  irritation. 

Turned  Sideways  in  Disease. — Meningitis. 

Contracted  (small)  Pupils. — Generally  poisoning  from  opium. 

Dilated  (enlarged)  Pupils. — Apoplexy.  Poisoning  from  atropine. 

Nose. 

Movement  of  Nostrils  in  Breathing. — Frequently  seen  in  pneumonia. 
Picking  Nose. — Often  means  worms  and  especially  if  there  is  scratching  of 
rectum. 

Headache. 

Front  Part,  Dull  Aching. — Caused  by  constipation  or  dyspepsia. 

Aching  in  Eyes. — Generally  glasses  are  needed. 

Top  and  Back  of  Head. — In  women  this  frequently  indicates  womb  disease. 
Back  Part. — Nervous  headache,  sick  headache  or  spinal  trouble. 

Throbbing. — Congestion. 

In  Temples  (neuralgia). — May  be  due  to  bad  teeth. 

Frothing  at  Mouth. 

Frothing  at  Mouth. — Convulsions,  paralysis  or  apoplexy. 

Hands  and  Feet. 

Cold  Hands  and  Feet. — Poor  circulation  and  low  condition.  Also  seen  in 
last  stages  of  disease  before  death. 


4 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Bleeding. 

From  Nose. — Congestion.  May  be  from  diphtheria,  whooping  cough  or  tu- 
mors. Beginning  of  typhoid  fever. 

From  Mouth. — Comes  from  stomach,  lungs,  throat  or  teeth.  If  frothy  red, 
from  lungs.  If  dark  red,  from  stomach. 

From  Rectum. — Due  to  piles,  ulcers  or  intestinal  hemorrhage. 

Steady  Flow  of  Dark  Blood. — From  veins.  Bandage  on  side  of  wound  farth- 
est from  heart. 

Bright  Red  and  in  Spurts. — From  arteries.  Bandage  between  wound  and 
heart. 

Discharges. 

From  Nose  or  Eyes. — Means  inflammation  and  needs  attention. 

Pains. 

See  “ Table  of  Pains  and  Aches  ” following. 

TABLE  OF  PAINS  AND  ACHES. 

Head. 

Forehead. — Often  due  to  stomach  or  to  constipation. 

Over  Eyebrows.— Catarrh  or  grip. 

Top  Part. — In  women  frequently  due  to  womb  trouble. 

Temples. — Generally  neuralgia  and  may  be  from  ear  or  teeth. 

Neck  (nape  of). — Spinal  troubles  and  nervousness. 

Neck,  Continued  Stiffness  of  Nape. — One  of  the  first  symptoms  of  typhcud 
fever. 

Chest 

In  Lungs. — Pleurisy,  pneumonia,  consumption. 

Muscles  of  Chest. — Rheumatism  or  neuritis. 

Under  Edge  of  Ribs. — Intercostal  neuralgia.  (Neuritis.) 

Band  Around  Chest  on  Heart  Line. — Heart  Disease. 

Pain  in  Breathing. — Generally  pleurisy  or  pneumonia. 

Around  Heart. — May  be  heart  trouble,  muscular  rheumatism  or  heartburn. 

Heartburn  is  due  to  pressure  from  gas  in  stomach  or  bowels. 

Streaking  from  Heart  Region  to  Shoulder  and  down  inner  side  of  Arm. — Fre- 
quently indicates  valvular  heart  disease. 

Abdomen. 

Pain  in  Stomach. — Probably  due  to  indigestion.  May  be  dilation  or  gas. 

In  Stomach  and  Radiating  to  Back  Bone. — Ulcer  of  Stomach. 

In  Stomach. — May  be  due  to  cancer. 

Between  Navel  and  Point  of  Hip  Bone  on  Right  Side. — Likely  to  be  appendi- 
citis. Especially  if  muscles  are  tense  and  hard. 

Right  Side  under  Ribs  and  Liver  and  Higher  than  in  Appendicitis. — Gall 
stones. 

Running  from  Kidney  to  Bladder  and  into  Groin  or  Scrotum. — Usually  due 
to  gravel. 

Band  Around  and  Below  the  Waist.—Disease  of  spinal  cord. 


CHARTS  OF  SVMPTO^rS. 

(See  Index  for  Diseases  and  their  Treatments.) 


. v'c  V ® 
S O 2 ^ 

0.2  fc.2  « 
OQ0,q::j 


■J  oi  ft  V irf 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


D 


Back. 

Pain  under  Ribs  near  Back  Bone. — Kidney  trouble.  Kidneys  are  higher  up 
than  most  people  think. 

In  Deep  Muscles  of  Back. — Lumbago. 

Very  Low  in  Back. — Piles  or  injured  bone.  (Coccyx.) 

Shoulder. 

Pain  under  Right  Shoulder  Blade. — Liver  trouble. 

Legs. 

Pain  in  Back  Part  of  Thigh  and  Leg  to  Foot. — Sciatica. 

Knee. — Rheumatism,  white  swelling  or  hip  joint  disease. 

Joints. 

Pain  or  Aching  in  Joints. — Generally  due  to  rheumatism. 

Pain  in  Urinating. 

Pain  in  Passing  Urine. — Local  inflammation  of  urethra  or  bladder  or  due  to 
acid  or  alkaline  urine. 


COMPARISON  OF  DISEASES. 

Diphtheria,  Tonsilitis  and  Quinsy. 

Diphtheria. — First  there  is  a spot  or  spots  on  the  tonsils  or  perhaps  on  the 
soft  palate  or  uvula,  then  the  membrane  quickly  forms  and  perhaps  ex- 
tends to  the  other  parts. 

Membrane  when  forcibly  removed  leaves  a red,  raw  surface  and  speedily 
returns. 

Membrane  is  of  a ‘'whitish-yellow-brown”  or  grayish  color. 

Bad  tongue  somewhat  the  color  of  the  membrane. 

Very  bad  breath. 

Tonsilitis. — Spot  or  spots  on  the  tonsils;  membrane  forms  on  the  tonsils  only. 
Membrane  when  it  comes  off  leaves  a glistening  surface. 

Membrane  of  a whitish  yellow  brown  or  grayish  color. 

Bad  tongue  somewhat  the  color  of  the  membrane. 

Very  bad  breath. 

Quinsy. — No  spots  or  membrane. 

The  disease  is  in  the  body  of  the  tonsil  and  surrounding  soft  parts  back 
of  it. 

Jaw  is  generally  quite  stiff  and  the  patient  is  sometimes  unable  to  open 
the  mouth. 

Note. — It  is  sometimes  impossible  to  distinguish  between  diphtheria  and 
tonsilitis  without  the  regular  medical  test.  Especially  is  this  true  when 
the  spots  or  membrane  are  confined  to  the  tonsils. 


6 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Measles,  German  Measles,  Chicken-pox  and  Small-pox. 

Measles. — Sneezing,  water  running  from  nose,  watery  eyes  and  generally  a 
bad  cough. 

A great  deal  of  fever. 

The  eruption  is  generally  thick  and  in  blotches  or  spots. 

Eruption  appears  first  in  the  mouth  and  on  the  face. 

German  Measles. — Milder  than  measles  and  not  so  much  catarrh,  often  none. 
Not  much  fever. 

The  eruption  is  more  scattered  than  in  measles  and  of  a lighter  color. 
There  is  a greater  tendency  to  affect  the  glands  of  the  neck  than  in  true 
measles. 

Chicken-pox. — Generally  mild. 

Eruption  consists  of  rose-colored  spots. 

Eruption  first  appears  on  the  neck  and  trunk  of  body. 

Eruption  changes  within  a few  hours  into  pimples  with  a white  top. 
The  spots  may  number  from  a dozen  to  hundreds. 

Small-pox. — There  is  first  a sense  of  uneasiness,  weariness  and  soreness. 
Severe  pain  in  the  head  as  if  it  would  fly  to  pieces.  An  indescribable 
pain  in  the  back. 

Very  bad  breath. 

Eruption  is  first  seen  upon  the  face  and  exposed  parts  of  the  body  in 
the  form  of  small  red  points.  These  enlarge  greatly  and  finally  fill  with 
pus. 

Another  symptom  is  a feeling  as  though  there  were  shot  under  the  skin 
when  the  hand  is  passed  over  the  forehead. 

Scarlet  Fever  and  Roseola. 

Scarlet  Fever. — Eruption  consists  of  very  minute  red  points,  not  raised,  and 
so  crowded  that  the  skin  appears  of  a uniform  bright  red  over  the  whole 
body. 

Eruption  appears  first  on  the  chest  and  roof  of  the  mouth. 

There  is  generally  the  peculiar  strawberry  tongue,  looking  first  like  an 
unripe  and  later  like  a ripe  strawberry. 

Generally  there  is  sore  throat  either  mild  or  severe. 

Roseola. — Eruption  is  a deep  scarlet  flush. 

Eruption  shows  in  patches  and  is  not  uniform  over  the  body. 

Eruption  first  appears  on  limbs  and  body. 

Tongue  may  be  covered  with  a thick  whitish  yellow  coating. 

There  is  not  generally  a sore  throat. 

Renal  or  Kidney  Colic,  Gall  Stone  Colic  and  Appendicitis. 

Renal  or  Kidney  Colic. — The  pain  is  very  severe. 

The  pain  runs  from  back,  under  the  ribs,  and  especially  when  there  is 
much  uric  acid  in  the  urine  the  pain  runs  down  into  the  bladder  and 
scrotum. 

There  is  a history  of  kidney  stones  or  red  sand  in  the  urine. 

Gall  Stone  Colic. — The  pain  is  generally  excruciating. 

The  pain  is  generally  under  the  ribs  and  in  the  stomach. 

There  is  a history  of  gall  stones. 

Generally  a bilious  complexion. 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


7 


Appendicitis. — The  pain  may  be  severe  but  is  generally  a severe  aching. 

The  pain  is  located  midway  between  the  navel  and  the  point  of  the  hip 
bone  and  does  not  extend  down  into  the  scrotum. 

The  muscles  of  the  abdomen  are  tense  and  hard. 

WHAT  THE  HOME  MEDICINE  CHEST  SHOULD  CONTAIN. 

Appliances. — The  medicine  chest  should  contain  scales  with  scruple  and 
dram  weights,  four-ounce  glass  graduate,  one-dram  graduate,  correct  medi- 
cine dropper,  four-ounce  hard  rubber  syringe,  camel’s  hair  brushes,  absorbent 
cotton,  rolled  bandages  one  and  two  inches  wide  and  three  to  five  yards 
long;  surgeon’s  gauze,  old  muslin  and  linen,  court  plaster,  rubber  adhesive 
plaster  and  paraffin  paper. 


Allopathic  Medicines. 

Internal  Medicines. — Olive  oil,  glycerine,  whisky,  gin,  sherry  wine,  mag- 
nesia, castor  oil,  syrup  of  rhubarb,  baking  soda,  sweet  spirits  of  nitre,  essence 
of  peppermint,  essence  of  wintergreen,  syrup  of  ipecac,  hive  syrup,  paregoric, 
laudanum,  quinine,  one  and  two-grain  quinine  pills,  soda  mint,  aromatic 
spirits  of  ammonia. 

External  Medicines. — Alcohol,  ammonia  water,  turpentine,  chloroform, 
soap  liniment,  extract  of  witch  hazel,  tincture  of  iodine,  boric  acid,  flaxseed 
meal,  vaseline,  benzoated  lard,  zinc  ointment. 

For  Poisoning. — Vinegar,  tannic  acid,  epsom  salts,  sulphate  of  copper  in 
three-grain  powders.  For  poisoning  by  matches,  Jeaunel’s  antidote. 

Homeopathic  Medicines. 

Homeopathic  medicines  are  prepared  in  the  form  of  tinctures  and  pow- 
ders. From  the  tinctures  the  “ dilutions  ” are  made.  From  the  powders  are 
made  “ triturations  ” and  these  are  often  compressed  into  tablets.  “Dilution  ” 
thus  means  the  liquid  form  of  the  medicine  and  according  to  strength  it  is 
called  first  (1st)  dilution,  2nd  dilution,  3rd  dilution,  etc.  The  medicine  may  be 
bought  in  these  strengths.  The  higher  the  dilution  the  weaker  the  medicine. 

“Trituration”  means  the  powdered  form  of  the  medicine  and  it  is  called 
first  (1st)  trituration  or  lx,  2nd  trituration  or  2x,  3d  trituration  or  3x.  These 
triturations  are  generally  compressed  into  tablets  as  they  are  handier  to  use 
in  tablet  form.  The  higher  the  trituration,  the  weaker  the  medicine. 

If  you  are  not  referring  to  either  the  liquid  or  powder  form  of  the  medi- 
cine you  can  cal!  either  a dilution  or  a trituration  an  “attenuation.”  It  is 
better  to  specify  either  the  dilution  or  the  trituration. 

In  using  these  medicines  in  the  liquid  or  dilution  form  you  usually  put 
ten  to  fifteen  drops  of  the  dilution  (say  1st,  2nd  or  3d  dilution)  into  a glass 
one-half  full  of  water  and  of  this  you  give  two  teaspoonfuls  every  half  hour, 
hour,  two  hours  or  three  hours  according  to  the  case.  By  this  you  will  know 
the  dose  of  any  homeopathic  medicine  used  in  this  book  if  it  is  not  given. 
We  have  endeavored,  however,  to  give  the  dose  in  each  case. 

When  you  use  the  medicine  in  tablet  form  you  give  one  or  two  tablets 
dry  on  the  tongue  or  dissolve  them  in  a little  water.  They  are  given  every 
half  hour  to  three  hours  according  to  the  case  so  you  will  know  the  dose 
should  it  not  be  given  with  any  homeopathic  remedy  in  the  book. 


8 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Some  medicines  are  best  used  in  dilution  and  some  in  tablet  form.  We 
will  give  the  kind  to  use  and  the  strength  of  the  same  in  naming  the  remedies. 

You  can  buy  the  homeopathic  medicines  in  some  drug  stores  or  you 
can  get  them  from  a good  homeopathic  physician.  The  Boericke  and  Tafel 
preparations  are  the  dearest  but  it  pays  to  buy  them  if  you  can. 

You  can  use  the  dilutions  to  saturate  disks.  Buy  a pound  of  No.  6 
homeopathic  disks.  Fill  a four-dram  bottle  with  these  and  then  pour  it  one- 
fourth  full  of  the  dilution  wanted,  that  is,  enough  to  saturate  all  the  disks. 
They  should  look  wet.  Shake  the  bottle.  This  is  a nice  way  of  using  the 
dilutions.  The  medicines  keep  well  if  in  a dark  cool  place  away  from  cam- 
phor, ammonia,  coffee,  chloroform  and  liniments.  They  must  be  kept  away 
from  the  allopathic  medicine  chest. 

The  following  medicines  and  strengths  are  recommended  for  the  homeo- 
pathic chest.  Bu}^  only  the  homeopathic  preparations.  Remember  “dilu- 
tions ” are  the  liquid  forms  and  “ triturations  ” are  tablets  or  powdei*s. 
Where  triturations  are  mentioned  we  advise  tablets  instead  of  powders. 


Aconite  2x  or  2nd  dilution. 

Apis.  Mel  2x  or  2nd  trituration. 
Arsenicum  Alb.  3x  or  3rd  trituration. 
Belladonna  3x  or  3rd  dilution. 

Bryonia  2x  or  2nd  dilution. 

Chamomilla  lx  or  1st  dilution. 

China  officinalis  2x  or  2nd  dilution. 
Gelsemium  lx  or  1st  dilution. 

Hepar  Sulph.  3x  or  3rd  trituration. 

Kali  bich.  3x  or  3rd  trituration. 
Mercurius  Sol.  3x  or  3rd  trituration. 
Mercurius  biniodide  3x  or  3rd  trituration. 
Nux  Vomica  3x  -.r  3rd  trituration. 


Phosphorus  3x  or  3rd  dilution. 
Pulsatilla  3x  or  3rd  trituration. 

Rhus  tox  6x  or  6th  trituration. 

Sepia  6x  or  6th  trituration. 

Spongia  3x  or  3rd  trituration. 
Sulphur  12x  or  12th  trituration. 
Veratrum  alb  2x  or  2nd  dilution. 
Tartar  Emetic  3x  or  3rd  trituration. 
Lycopodium  12x  or  12th  trituration. 
Sanguinaria  2x  or  2nd  dilution. 

Iris  versicolor  2x  or  2nd  dilution. 
Phosphoric  Acid  3x  or  3rd  dilution. 
Cocculus  lx  or  1st  dilution. 


DOSES  OF  MEDICINE  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES. 

Wherever  doses  are  mentioned  without  giving  the  age  they  are  intended 
for  adults.  There  are  several  ways  of  determining  the  proportion  for  a 
child.  One  way,  and  an  easy  one  to  remember,  is  to  add  the  number  12  to 
the  age  of  the  child  and  use  the  sum  as  a denominator,  then  place  the  age  of 
the  child  above  the  line  for  a numerator  and  the  resulting  fraction  will  be 
the  proportion  of  the  adult  dose  to  use.  Say  the  child  is  2 years  of  age,  add 
12  to  2 which  makes  14  for  the  denominator;  then  use  2 as  the  numerator 
and  you  have  2/14,  or  1/7  of  the  adult  dose.  This  rule  will  need  to  be  varied 
according  to  the  size  and  physical  condition  of  the  child.  If  it  is  a strong 
robust  child  the  dose  may  be  made  a little  larger  than  for  the  age  indicated. 
Then,  again,  the  rule  must  be  varied  according  to  the  kind  of  medicine  given. 
If  you  are  giving  opiates  or  narcotics  to  a child  you  should  give  but  one  half 
the  dose  indicated  for  the  age.  Thus,  for  a child  of  2 years  instead  of  giving 
1/7  of  a dose  as  we  figured  above  you  should  give  but  half  that  or  1/14  of 
the  adult  dose.  If  you  are  giving  laxatives  you  can  give  two  or  three  times 
the  normal  child  dose.  Thus,  for  the  child  2 years  old  you  would  give  either 
2/7  or  3/7  of  the  adult  dose.  If  a child  be  less  than  a year  old,  first  find  the 
dose  for  1 year,  then  take  the  proportion  of  that  indicated  by  the  age.  For 
example : if  the  child  is  six  months  old,  or  % year,  you  would  give  half  the 
dose  indicated  for  a child  a year  old. 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


Here  is  another  method  and  by  referring  to  the  table  you  will  not  have 
1.0  figure  the  dose  each  time. 


‘i  weeks  

7 months  .... 

1 year  

Under  2 years 

“ 3 “ 

“ 4 

“ 5 “ 


, .one^thirtieth 
one-twentieth 
. . . one-tenth 
.,  one-eighth 
. . . one-sixth 
. . one-fourth 
. . . one-third 


Under  14  years 

“ 20  “ 

Above  21  “ 

“ 65 

“ 70  “ 

“ 85  “ 


one-half 

. . . four-fifths 

full  dose 

eleven-twelfths 
. ...  five-sixths 
. . . two-thirds 


TABLES  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES  FOR  MEDICINES. 


1 minim  generally  equals  1 

60  drops  make  1 

8 fluid  drachms  make  1 

16  fluid  ounces  make  1 

1 drop  generally  equals 1 

20  grains  make  1 

3 scruples  make  1 

8 drams  make  1 

1 tablespoonful  equals  4 

1 teacup  equals  4 

1 coffee  cup  equals  6 

1 wineglass  equals  2 


drop, 

fluid  drachm,  or  1 small  teaspconful. 
fluid  ounce,  or  2 tablespoonfuls, 
pint,  or  about  1 pound  in  weight 

grain. 

scruple,  or  1-3  teaspoonful. 
dram,  or  1 teaspoonful. 
ounce,  or  2 tablespoonfuls. 

teaspoonfuls, 
fluid  ounces, 
fluid  ounces, 
to  4 tablespoonfuls. 


SIGNS  AND  ABBREVIATIONS  USED  BY  PHYSICIANS. 

Tr.,  tincture;  ext.,  solid  extract;  fl.  ext.,  fluid  extract;  syr.,  syrup;  inf., 
infusion;  dec.,  decoction;  oz.,  ounce;  dr.,  dram  or  drachm;  gr.,  grain;  scr., 
scruple;  pt.,  pint;  qt.,  quart;  gal.,  gallon. 

^ = dram. 

>n  = fluid  dram. 

3 = ounce. 

/3  = fluid  ounce, 

0 = pint. 

Oj  = 1 pint. 

5j  = 1 dram. 

39  = 2 drams. 

5%  = 3 drams. 

SV  = 4 drams. 

JV  = 5 drams. 

= 1 fluid  dram. 
flj  = 1 fluid  ounce. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  THE  PATIENT  COMFORTABLE  IN  BED. 

Changing  Night  Gown. 

Remove  one  sleeve  of  the  gown  and  immediately  put  on  same  sleeve 
of  the  clean  gown  by  passing  your  hand  through  the  sleeve  from  the  hand 
end  and  grasping  the  hand  of  the  patient  and  drawing  his  arm  through,  or 
pushing  the  sleeve  up  his  arm.  Slip  the  gown  across  the  chest  under  the 


10 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


soiled  one  and  put  the  second  sleeve  on  the  same  as  the  first.  Turn  to  the 
side  to  button.  This  is  for  a gown  that  opens  in  the  back.  When  the 
gown  is  a closed  one  or  opens  in  the  front  and  is  long,  have  the  patient  lie 
on  his  back  with  his  knees  bent.  Have  him  slightly  raise  his  thighs  or  raise 
him  yourself  by  placing  one  of  your  hands  under  his  buttocks  (seat)  and 
then  draw  the  gown  up  with  the  other  hand  after  it  has  been  put  over  his 
feet  and  knees.  Then  slip  one  arm  under  his  shoulder  and  support  his  head 
with  that  arm.  Draw  the  gown  well  up  around  his  neck.  Slip  one  of  your 
hands  through  the  upper  armhole  of  one  of  the  sleeves,  grasp  his  arm 
above  the  elbow  and  bend  it  while  you  draw  the  sleeve  of  soiled  gown  off 
with  the  other  hand.  Place  the  sleeves  of  clean  gown  on  as  directed  above 
and  button. 


To  Change  Under  Sheet. 

If  the  patient  can  move  turn  him  on  his  side  and  roll  soiled  sheet  over  as 
far  as  possible.  Roll  the  clean  sheet  half  width  and  put  against  the  soiled 
one.  Then  gently  turn  the  patient  on  his  back  and  other  side  and  pull  out 
the  soiled  sheet  and  at  the  same  time  pull  or  unroll  the  clean  one.  When 
rolling  the  sheets,  roll  in  widths  of  say  four  inches  and  then  when  the  sick 
one  is  rolled  on  his  back  and  side  he  will  not  feel  the  roll.  When  the  patient 
cannot  be  moved  you  can  work  the  soiled  sheet  from  the  top  down  and 
roll  the  clean  one  and  work  it  down  slowly  and  gently  at  the  same  time 
with  very  little  lifting  of  the  patient. 

How  to  Move  the  Patient  from  One  Bed  to  Another. 

Place  beds  together.  If  of  the  same  height  draw  the  patient  to  the 
new  bed  by  pulling  on  the  sheet.  It  is  best  to  roll  the  sheet  up  to  the 
patient  for  it  is  thus  made  stronger  and  gives  a better  hold.  When  it  is 
necessary  to  carry  the  patient  roll  him  in  the  upper  sheet  and  blanket. 
It  usually  takes  two  for  this.  One  puts  his  hands  under  the  patient’s 
shoulders  and  buttocks  and  the  other  under  his  thighs  and  back.  Draw 
him  gently  to  the  edge  of  the  bed  and  carry  carefully  to  the  bed  which  has 
been  prepared. 

To  Lift  and  Carry  the  Patient  When  Sitting. 

Place  your  arm  over  his  shoulder  and  take  a firm  hold  under  the  opposite 
arm.  Have  the  patient  clasp  his  arms  on  your  far  shoulder  and  then  place 
your  free  arm  under  his  knees. 

To  Draw  a Patient  Up  in  Bed. 

Bend  the  patient’s  knees  so  that  his  feet  will  rest  firmly  on  the  bed ; 
grasp  him  under  his  far  arm,  bending  your  arm  so  that  his  head  will  rest 
in  your  elbow  joint ; put  your  other  arm  under  his  thighs,  bend  your  knees 
slightly  to  avoid  bending  your  back,  and  move  the  patient  gently  upward.  If 
two  are  required,  do  as  follows:  One  grasps  the  patient  under  the  arm  as 
though  he  were  to  move  him  alone  and  then  places  the  other  arm  under  the 
small  of  the  back.  The  other  person  also  places  one  arm  under  the  small 
of  the  back  and  the  other  arm  under  his  thighs. 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


11 


How  to  Sit  a Patient  Up  in  Bed. 

You  can  have  a back-rest  or  pad  a chair.  Put  a cane  or  wooden  seated 
chair  up-side-down  on  the  bed  with  front  part  against  the  bed  or  bedstead. 
Then  put  pillows  between  the  patient  and  chair  and  arrange  to  his  comfort. 

To  Place  a Patient  in  a Chair. 

Place  the  chair  with  the  front  to  the  bed ; make  it  soft  with  pillows  on 
the  seat  and  at  the  back  with  open  end  of  pillow  case  down.  Place  one  arm 
around  the  patient’s  shoulder  with  the  hand  under  his  opposite  arm.  Place 
your  other  arm  under  his  thighs.  If  too  heavy  for  one,  put  one  of  your  arms 
around  shoulder  as  before  and  the  other  under  his  buttocks.  The  second 
person  then  puts  one  arm  around  small  of  back  and  the  other  under  the 
thighs  near  the  knees. 

The  Bed  Pan  and  How  to  Use  It 

You  should  always  use  a bed  pan  as  the  old-fashioned  chamber  neces- 
sitates sitting  the  patient  up  and  cannot  be  used  in  many  diseases.  The 
old  kind  should  never  be  used  in  typhoid  fever,  appendicitis  or  any  bowel 
trouble.  Get  the  metal  bed  pan.  It  should  be  kept  clean  and  sweet.  Wash 
daily  with  hot  water  and  soap  suds  and  scald.  Copperas  solution  is  a good 
thing  to  use  in  them  as  a disinfectant  for  bowel  contents  and  urine.  To  use 
the  bed  pan,  bend  the  knees  of  the  patient  so  that  his  feet  will  rest  firmly 
on  the  bed.  Then  pass  one  hand  under  the  lower  part  of  the  back  and 
raise  him.  a little  as  you  gently  push  the  pan  up  with  the  other  hand.  Raise 
him  the  same  way  before  attempting  to  remove  the  pan.  Have  the  pan 
warm  and  cover  it  immediately  after  it  is  removed.  To  cleanse  the  parts 
thoroughly  it  is  well  to  place  a clean  pan  and  then  cleanse. 

How  to  Cleanse  the  Mouth  and  Teeth. 

This  is  very  needful  in  disease  and  especially  in  typhoid  fever.  Wrap 
a piece  of  gauze  or  absorbent  cotton  or  a piece  of  clean  linen  around  your 
index  finger  or  around  a small  piece  of  whale  bone  or  stick.  Wet  this  in 
the  mouth  wash  and  clean  every  part  thoroughly.  Carefully  clean  the  tongue 
but  do  not  use  the  same  piece  twice.  Listerine,  half  strength,  or  any  other  like 
antiseptic  is  good.  The  boric  acid  solution  is  especially  good. 

Prevention  and  Care  of  Bed  Sores. 

These  are  often  due  to  old  age,  fevers,  some  spinal  disease,  paralvsis  or 
general  dropsy  but  the  exciting  causes  are  wrinkles  in  the  bed  clothes, 
moisture  from  the  bowels  and  urine,  bread  crumbs,  dirt,  and  remaining  in 
one  position  too  long.  The  preventive  treatment  is  cleanliness  and  change 
of  position.  The  active  treatment  is  to  bathe  the  red  spot  with  alcohol  and 
dust  with  the  following  powder  from  two  to  four  times  in  twenty-four 
hours.  Mix  % ounce  of  powder  of  boric  acid  with  1 ounce  of  powder  of  oxide 
of  zinc.  Rubber  rings  are  also  good.  If  the  skin  is  in  danger  of  breaking 
wash  gently  with  warm  alcohol  every  six  hours  and  rub  with  alcohol  and 
powder  every  three  hours.  When  the  sores  have  formed  observe  cleanliness 
and  us  ’ an  ointment  of  castor  oil  and  alcohol  thickened  with  zinc  oxide  pow- 
der ^ Another  good  powder  is  boric  acid,  % dram ; oxide  of  zinc,  1 dram ; 
lanoline,  6 ounces;  alboline,  % ounce. 


12 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


DISINFECTANTS  AND  ANTISEPTICS. 

Where  we  use  disinfectants  the}^  are  intended  for  use  in  the  sick  room, 
for  vessels,  etc.,  but  are  generally  too  strong  for  use  on  the  body.  The 
antiseptics  are  intended  for  use  on  the  body  such  as  for  sores,  mouth 
washes,  etc. 

Carbolic  Acid  Disinfectant. — Use  6 ounces  of  carbolic  acid  to  a gallon  of 
water.  This  is  suitable  for  clothing,  dishes,  metals  and  the  hands  of  nurses. 
Soak  clothes  in  it  and  boil. 

It  can  also  be  used  on  curtains  and  sheets  and  placed  at  doors  and  win- 
dows to  prevent  the  spread  of  the  contagion. 

Carbolic  Acid  Antiseptic  Solution. — Use  1 part  of  carbolic  acid  to  125 
parts  of  water,  or  1 teaspoonful  of  acid  to  a pint  of  water.  This  may  be  used  as 
a vaginal  douche  or  when  there  is  a foul  smelling  discharge  from  sores,  etc., 
but  for  wounds  and  sores  I would  advise  the  use  of  some  of  the  milder  anti- 
septics such  as  glyco-thymoline,  listerine,  borolyptal  or  boric  acid  solution. 
Carbolic  acid  in  any  form  should  be  marked  “ Poison,”  and  should  be  kept 
out  of  reach  of  children. 

Corrosive  Sublimate  (Bichloride  of  Mercury)  Disinfectant  and  Anti- 
septic.— This  can  be  bought  in  tablets  of  any  strength  desired  so  that  when 
dissolved  in  water  it  will  make  from  one  one-thousandth  to  a one  ten- 
thousandth  solution.  Dissolve  one  tablet,  strength  one  to  four-thousand 
in  a pint  of  boiling  water.  Keep  in  a bottle  marked  “ Poison.”  Good  for 
bed  pan  and  as  a cleansing  wash  for  old  sores.  It  is  better  to  use  this  as 
a disinfectant  onl}^  and  use  something  else  as  an  antiseptic. 

Boric  Acid  Antiseptic  Wash  for  Mouth. — Dissolve  % ounce  of  boric  acid 
in  a pint  of  water. 

Copperas  Disinfectant. — Put  a lump  as  large  as  a walnut  in  the  chamber 
with  half  a pint  of  water  to  receive  discharges  of  all  kinds  such  as  urine, 
sputum,  feces  and  vomited  matter  from  contagious  and  infectious  patients. 

Chloride  of  Lime. — Use  6 ounces  of  lime  to  a gallon  of  soft  water.  It 
should  be  kept  in  the  vessel  to  receive  the  discharges  from  contagious  pa- 
tients. Let  it  stand  for  several  hours  before  emptying. 

Disinfecting  Vapor. — This  is  useful  in  the  room  of  a diphtheria  patient 
or  patient  of  foul  odors.  Use  pure  carbolic  acid,  1 ounce;  oil  of  eucalyptus, 
1 ounce ; spirits  of  turpentine,  4 ounces.  Put  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  into 
hot  water  and  keep  it  simmering  constantly.  Avoid  going  near  the  fire  with 
this  mixture. 

Dry  Disinfectants. — Chloride  of  lime  and  copperas  may  be  used  freely  in 
closets  and  cesspools. 

Disinfecting  a Room  After  a Contagious  Disease. — Take  the  paper  from 
the  walls  and  wash  the  walls  and  the  woodwork  with  a one  to  one-thousand 
solution  of  corrosive  sublimate  then  stop  up  all  the  cracks  and  burn  sulphur 
in  the  room.  Wash  the  hands  carefully  after  having  them  in  the  above 
solution.  Formaldehyde  is  a more  effective  disinfectant  to  burn  in  the  room 
but  it  is  dangerous  and  it  is  best  to  leave  its  use  to  the  health  officers. 


BATHS. 

Bathing  is  essential  to  health.  Some  people  can  enjoy  it  daily;  some 
want  it  cold  and  others  warm.  Morning  is  usually  the  best  time.  The  water 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


13 


should  not  be  too  warm  as  one  is  then  likely  to  take  cold.  When  taking 
a cold  bath  put  water  on  the  back  of  the  neck  first  and  then  step  into  the 
bath.  This  lessens  the  chilly  feeling.  If  you  bathe  frequently  do  not  bathe 
longer  than  ten  minutes.  Rub  briskly  during  and  after  a cold  bath. 

Bed  Bath. — Close  the  windows,  be  sure  there  is  no  draught  and  that 
the  room  is  warm  and  comfortable.  Place  a folded  blanket  over  the  chest 
and  tuck  a corner  of  it  under  the  mattress  on  both  sides  to  keep  it  from 
slipping  down ; turn  down  the  bed  clothing,  unfolding  the  blanket  at  the 
same  time;  slip  second  blanket  or  half  of  large  one  under  the  patient  and 
take  ofif  the  night  gown.  Then  proceed  first  with  the  face,  neck,  arms,  chest, 
etc.,  and  dry  as  you  go.  Rub  the  patient  afterward  with  alcohol.  Never 
expose  the  patient  but  always  keep  him  covered.  Do  not  hurry  and  on  the 
other  hand  do  not  take  so  long  as  to  exhaust  the  patient.  Wash  cloths  should 
be  well  wrung  out  before  using.  Unless  specially  directed  the  temperature 
of  the  water  is  to  be  comfortable  for  the  patient. 

To  Wash  the  Hair  of  the  Patient. — Do  not  do  this  in  a case  of  diphtheria. 
It  is  generally  prohibited  in  acute  diseases.  In  chronic  diseases  it  is  generally 
necessary.  You  need  a pitcher,  soap,  plenty  of  hot  and  cold  water  and  a 
jar  into  which  to  empty  the  water.  You  will  also  need  some  soft  towels  and  a 
rubber  to  protect  the  pillows.  Bring  the  patient  to  the  side  of  the  bed ; pin 
one  end  of  the  rubber  around  the  neck  and  with  the  rest  make  a trough  ex- 
tending to  a foot  bath  or  basin  a few  inches  lower  than  the  head  to  receive  the 
dripping.  First  use  soap  water,  rubbing  hair  and  scalp  well,  and  follow  with 
clear  water.  Dry  the  hair  with  warm  towels  and  by  fanning.  Wait  until 
dry  before  braiding. 

Tub  Bath. — This  is  for  a high  fever.  Use  a portable  tub  if  possible. 

Sponge  Baths. — Must  be  given  by  an  experienced  hand.  An  easy  way 
to  give  a sponge  or  towel  bath  is  to  put  one  thick  flannel  sheet  under  and 
one  over  the  patient  after  the  night  robe  has  been  taken  ofif.  The  blankets 
will  absorb  all  the  water  you  spill.  Use  water  which  is  comfortable  for  the 
patient,  unless  there  is  a high  fever,  when  it  should  be  as  cold  as  can  be 
borne  without  badly  afifecting  the  patient.  Wring  cloth  or  sponge  pretty 
dry  and  commence  with  the  face  and  go  down.  Rub  dry  after  washing  a 
foot  or  two  of  space.  In  this  way  a bath  can  be  given  very  easily.  After 
a corn  sweat  a patient  can  be  washed  ofif  in  the  same  way  only  you  need 
not  use  any  new  sheets.  The  old  ones  will  do  for  you  must  change  them 
anyway.  All  sheets  should  be  thoroughly  dried  and  aired  before  being  used. 
Do  not  take  them  out  of  their  packing  place  and  put  directly  upon  the  sick 
bed.  Put  them  in  the  sunlight  by  a closed  window  or  on  a radiator  or  in 
any  other  place  where  they  will  air  and  dry. 

Sitz  Bath. — This  is  good  for  inflammations  of  the  pelvic  organs  and  rec- 
tum and  also  in  labor.  You  should  have  a specially  prepared  tub.  Fasten 
a blanket  around  both  the  patient  and  the  tub  and  wrap  a second  blanket 
around  patient’s  feet  and  hips.  The  temperature  of  the  water  should  be  from 
110  to  112  degrees.  The  bath  should  last  five  minutes  and  perhaps  ten 
minutes  in  some  cases. 

In  labor  you  can  use  a common  tub  and  sit  in  it  or  sit  over  a large  pail 
of  hot  water.  This  frequently  increases  the  pain  and  relaxes  the  perineum. 

Foot  Baths. — Fold  the  bed  clothes  up  from  the  foot  of  the  bed  to  above 
the  patient’s  knees.  Cover  the  feet  and  limbs  with  a double  blanket  and 
turn  the  blanket  over  the  feet  and  back  under  the  hips.  Bend  the  patient’s 


14 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


knees  and  place  foot  tub  half  filled  with  water,  112  to  115  degrees,  length- 
wise in  the  bed  between  the  folds  of  the  blanket.  Lift  the  feet  with  one 
hand  and  with  the  other  draw  the  tub  under  them.  Put  them  into  the 
water  slowly  so  as  to  accustom  them  to  the  heated  water.  Fold  the  blanket 
around  the  tub  and  knees  and  bring  down  the  bed  clothes.  In  ten  minutes 
carefully  pour  in  some  more  hot  water  but  do  not  pour  it  directly  on  the 
patient’s  feet  for  fear  of  burning.  The  bath  may  last  twenty  minutes. 
Take  it  away  in  the  same  manner  as  you  placed  it  there.  Dry  the  feet  well 
and  place  a hot  water  bag  against  them. 

Sulphur  Baths. — Add  20  grains  of  sulphate  of  potassium  to  each  gallon 
of  water  which  should  be  of  the  temperature  of  about  95  degrees.  Remember 
that  sulphur  discolors  metal. 

Bran  Baths. — Boil  one  pound  of  bran  in  a bag  for  twenty  minutes ; drain 
off  the  fluid  and  add  it  to  the  bath  water  at  the  temperature  of  about  95 
degrees.  Fill  tub  half  full  of  water. 

Soda  Baths. — These  are  for  itching  of  the  skin.  Use  8 ounces  of  soda  to 
each  gallon  of  water.  Remain  quiet  in  these  baths  for  from  five  to  twenty 
minutes.  Envelop  the  patient  in  a hot  sheet  and  dry  gently. 

Salt  Baths. — Use  15  pounds  of  salt  to  a tub  half  full  of  water.  The  tem- 
perature should  be  from  65  to  70  degrees.  Rub  well  both  during  and  after 
the  bath. 

Mustard  Foot  Baths. — These  are  good  for  colds  and  whenever  you  wish 
to  draw  the  blood  from  the  head  to  the  extremities.  Use  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  mustard  to  a gallon  of  hot  water. 

Internal  Baths. — Douches  and  injections  are  for  the  vagina,  womb,  nose 
and  ear.  The  water  may  be  either  clear  or  medicated  and  either  warm  or 
hot — sometimes  very  hot.  The  ordinary  temperature  is  from  110  to  115 
degrees.  Various  antiseptics  and  medicines  are  used,  such  as  carbolic  acid, 
listerine,  glyco-thymoline,  witch  hazel,  calendula,  hydrastis,  tannin,  etc. 

Enemas  are  injections  into  the  rectum.  These  are  used  to  destroy  worms 
and  germs  and  also  for  bleeding,  diarrhoea,  gas,  soothing  purposes  and  to 
produce  a movement  of  the  bowels.  They  are  sometimes  given  for  nourish- 
ment when  the  patient  is  unable  to  eat  and  are  then  called  enematas.  You 
need  a bed  pan  and  either  a fountain  or  a bulb  syringe.  A hard  rubber  one 
holding  from  one-half  ounce  to  an  ounce  should  be  used  for  babies.  The 
solutions  used  are  warm  water,  soap  and  water  or  oil  for  the  bowels 
Medicated  water  may  be  used  as  directed  for  other  troubles. 


VENTILATION  AND  TEMPERATURE  OF  SICK  ROOM. 

Fresh  air  and  sunlight  are  necessary  in  the  sick  room.  They  are  anti- 
septic and  health  giving.  Any  room  can  easily  be  ventilated.  If  the  patient 
cannot  stand  to  have  the  window  open  continually  it  can  be  opened  fre- 
quently. The  draught  should  not  be  over  the  patient.  Cover  the  sick  one 
and  keep  the  cover  up  from  the  head  so  that  he  may  breathe.  If  the  bed  is 
near  the  window  place  a screen  or  quilt  on  a high  chair  to  keep  the  draught 
from  the  patient.  Keep  the  arms  and  body  under  the  cover  and  cover  the 
head  with  a big  handkerchief  or  cover  up  entirely  as  before  directed  while 
the  room  is  being  thoroughly  ventilated  with  the  windows  open.  The  air 
in  a room  should  never  smell  bad.  Ventilate  often  or  have  continuous  ven- 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


15 


tilation  if  possible.  For  continuous  ventilation  raise  the  lower  sash  of  a 
window  a few  inches  and  put  a board  in  the  opening.  The  air  then  enters 
the  room  at  the  bottom  of  the  upper  sash  or  between  the  two  sashes  and  no 
draught  is  created.  The  temperature  should  vary  for  different  diseases  and 
different  persons.  Usually  it  should  be  from  68  to  72  degrees. 


THE  TEMPERATURE,  PULSE  AND  RESPIRATION  OF  THE 

PATIENT. 

The  normal  temperature  is  98  6/10  degrees  Fahrenheit.  In  infants  it 
is  higher.  The  temperature  should  be  taken  in  the  mouth  under  the  tongue 
and  with  the  lips  closed.  It  may  also  be  taken  in  the  arm  pit  with  the  arm 
close  to  the  side  but  this  is  not  as  true  a way.  It  may  also  be  taken  in  the 
rectum.  When  taken  in  the  mouth  the  patient  must  not  have  recently  had 
anything  either  hot  or  cold  in  the  mouth.  Before  taking  the  temperature 
shake  the  thermometer  down  to  95  or  96  degrees.  It  should  remain  in  the 
mouth  from  one  to  ten  minutes.  The  thermometer  will  need  to  be  kept  in 
the  rectum  longer  than  in  the  mouth.  If  taken  in  the  arm  pit  the  temperature 
will  be  from  3/10  to  i/o  a degree  lower.  Keep  the  thermometer  clean  but  do 
not  put  it  into  hot  water. 

The  normal  pulse  is  70  to  74  per  minute.  It  varies  in  different  persons. 

The  respiration  is  usually  about  18  times  a minute;  children,  20  to  24; 
babes,  24. to  30. 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 

Care  to  be  Taken. — A contagious  disease  is  one  which  can  be  communi- 
cated by  coming  in  contact  with  or  near  to  the  patient,  his  clothing,  etc. 
Scarlet  fever,  measles,  small-pox  and  diphtheria  are  examples.  An  in- 
fectous  disease  is  one  caused  by  the  entrance  into  the  body  of  disease-bearing 
(pathogenic)  organisms.  Typhoid  fever  is  such  a disease.  In  infectious  and 
contagious  diseases  the  feces,  urine  and  sputum  should  always  be  received 
in  disinfecting  material  which  is  placed  in  the  vessels.  Linen  and  utensils 
used  by  the  patient  and  the  nurse  should  be  disinfected.  Articles  taken  from 
the  bed  of  such  a patient  should  be  immediately  put  into  a pail  or  vessel 
containing  a disinfecting  water  and  should  then  be  carried  to  a disinfecting 
room.  The  attendants  should  be  very  careful.  I once  had  a nurse  attending 
a typhoid  case  who  was  very  careless  and  finally  took  the  disease  and  came 
near  dying.  It  pays  to  be  careful. 

The  nurse  should  never  leave  the  room  without  washing  her  face  and 
hands  in  a bichloride  of  mercury  solution  and  she  should  put  on  a disinfected 
sheet  and  hood.  When  attending  to  the  patient  she  should  be  careful  not 
to  get  any  of  the  discharges  upon  her  hands  or  face  or  in  the  eyes  or  mouth 
or  on  any  other  part  of  her  person.  Frequently  in  diphtheria  the  patient 
coughs  and  if  care  is  not  taken  som.e  of  the  discharge  may  get  into  her 
eyes  and  mouth.  When  irrigating  such  a patient’s  throat  glasses  should 
be  used  to  protect  the  eyes  of  the  nurse  and  gauze  should  be  tied  over  the 
mouth.  Do  not  put  your  hands  to  your  mouth,  face  or  eyes.  Similar  care 
must  be  exercised  in  scarlet  fever  and  small-pox  and  the  doctor’s  directions 
thoroughly  carried  out. 


16 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Disinfection  is  done  by  the  legal  authorities  after  the  patient  has  com^ 
pletely  recovered.  Any  one  having  a contagious  disease  in  the  house  and  not 
having  a doctor  must  notify  the  health  officer  of  the  fact  in  order  to  com.ply 
with  the  requirements  of  the  law.  The  house  is  then  quarantined,  a card 
placed  in  plain  sight  and  orders  given  as  to  the  extent  of  the  quarantine. 
These  must  be  obeyed.  The  nurse  is  of  great  help  in  case  of  a contagious 
disease  but  she  can  do  even  more  in  case  of  infectious  diseases  such  as  typhoid 
fever. 

Isolation  and  Disinfection  in  Contagious  Diseases. — As  soon  as  any  one 
in  a family  has  a contagious  disease  like  diphtheria,  scarlet  fever  or  small-pox, 
that  person  should  immediately  be  placed  in  a pleasant,  sunny  room  with  all 
clothing,  rugs,  carpets,  upholstered  chairs  and  unnecessary  furniture  removed, 
keeping  only  such  furniture  and  bedding  as  may  be  needed.  It  is  well 
to  do  this  even  before  the  disease  has  been  pronounced  contagious.  In  this 
way  other  members  of  the  family  may  be  saved  from  the  disease.  The 
nurse  should  not  mingle  with  the  family.  Of  course  nothing  must  be  re- 
moved from  the  patient’s  room  without  being  thoroughly  disinfected. 

Dishes. — Place  dishes  used  by  the  patient  in  a metallic  vessel  containing 
water.  Cover  this  vessel  with  a sheet  wrung  out  of  a disinfectant  and  place 
outside  the  door  of  the  isolated  room.  The  vessel  should  be  removed  by  an 
outside  party  once  in  twenty-four  hours  to  the  kitchen  stove  and  its  con- 
tents boiled  for  thirty  minutes  in  the  same  vessel.  Unused  food  should  be 
put  into  a covered  pail  and  burned.  All  this  is  to  be  done  by  one  outside 
of  the  sick  room. 

Bed  Linen,  Towels,  Etc. — These  should  be  removed  to  the  kitchen  and 
boiled  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  carried  there  or  they  should  be  carried 
to  the  kitchen  in  a sheet  wet  with  a disinfectant  fluid  and  put  into  a boiler  and 
boiled  for  one-half  hour. 

Urine  and  Feces. — These  should  be  received  in  a vessel  containing  a 
disinfectant  such  as  carbolic  acid  or  copperas,  1 part  to  20  parts  water. 
After  the  vessel  has  been  used  add  a quantity  of  the  disinfecting  fluid  equal 
to  the  discharges,  mix  the  two  thoroughly,  cover  and  set  aside  for  one-half 
hour  and  then  empty  into  the  closet.  Also  keep  a copperas  disinfectant  in 
the  bed  pan  when  not  in  use.  Rinse  in  hot  water  before  using  and  then 
put  in  necessary  solution. 

Spitting  Cups  and  Gauze  Handkerchiefs. — In  these  diseases  spitting  cups 
should  be  used.  Nose  discharges  should  be  caught  in  gauze  and  burned 
immediately  in  diphtheria  cases  or  they  should  be  thrown  into  a covered 
cup  containing  a disinfectant  and  soon  burned. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  NURSING  VARIOUS  DISEASES. 

The  Giving  of  Medicines. — Medicines  should  always  be  given  regularly 
unless  the  patient  is  in  a refreshing  sleep.  Use  clean  glasses  and  spoons. 
Cover  the  glasses  and  keep  in  a cool  place  away  from  patient.  Never  cover 
with  newspaper  and  never  use  the  same  spoon  for  two  different  medicines. 

Feeding. — This  is  an  important  part  in  the  treatment  of  disease. 
Usually  the  best  food  is  milk  and  white  of  eggs  or  foods  made  with  them. 
In  diseases  of  the  stomach,  liver,  bowels,  kidneys  and  bladder  the  food  is 
of  supreme  importance.  No  case  of  typhoid  fever  can  be  treated  intelligently 
without  paying  particular  attention  to  the  diet.  Better  eat  too  little  than  too 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


17 


much.  Good  pure  milk  is  usually  safe  when  given  often  and  in  small  quan- 
tities. Then  there  are  the  food  formulas,  soups,  gruels,  teas,  etc.,  some  of 
which  may  be  used. 

Inflammations. — There  is  inflammation  in  injuries  and  in  inflammatory 
diseases  like  sore  throat,  appendicitis,  inflammatory  rheumatism,  pneumonia, 
etc.  Hot  water  bags  are  helpful  when  applied  to  the  afflicted  parts  for  ear 
and  throat  troubles,  pleurisy,  cramps,  etc.  They  are  -also  frequently  good 
in  neuritis  and  sciatica.  Hot  water  applications  are  sometimes  good  for 
appendicitis  but  in  this  disease  ice  is  generally  better  Poultices  are  of  many 
kinds  and  are  often  used.  The  hot  water  bag  frequently  takes  their  place. 
Bread  and  milk,  mustard  and  flaxseed  are  used  mostly.  Rubber  ice  bags 
are  frequently  used  in  appendicitis  and  brain  troubles  such  as  congestion  and 
sunstroke. 

Antiphlogistine  and  other  preparations  of  this  kind  are  now  frequently  . 
used  in  inflammatory  troubles  such  as  pneumonia,  rheumatism,  etc.  They 
are  frequently  of  value. 

How  and  When  to  Make  a Person  Sweat. — The  first  thing  to  do  in  colds, 
inflammation,  sore  throat,  quinsy,  tonsilitis,  bronchitis,  laryngitis,  pleurisy, 
pneumonia,  grip,  congestion  of  the  lungs,  lumbago  or  sciatica,  is  to  cause 
sweating  either  with  medicines,  teas  or  external  means.  In  promoting  sweat- 
ing you  equalize  the  circulation  and  relieve  the  congestion.  Internally,  teas 
such  as  ginger,  boneset,  horehound,  crawleyroot,  Virginia  snake-root,  sage, 
elder  blossom,  dwarf  elder,  blessed  thistle,  spruce  pine,  flaxseed,  catnip  or  slip- 
pery elm  are  good.  Hot  lemonade  will  also  cause  one  to  sweat  freely.  While 
taking  hot  drinks  a hot  mustard  foot  bath  will  help.  Directions  for  making 
these  teas  will  be  found  elsewhere  in  the  book.  Externally,  apply  heat  and 
moisture  from  bottles  of  hot  water  or  a hot  water  bag.  Plot  fomentations  are 
also  good. 

Corn  Sweat. — One  of  the  best  ways  of  causing  profuse  sweating  is  by 
the  aid  of  ears  of  corn  and  is  known  as  the  “ corn  sweat.’^  Put  20  ears  of 
corn  into  a boiler  of  hot  water,  boil  thoroughly  for  half  an  hour  or  until  the 
boiled-corn  smell  is  noticed ; then  take  them  out  and  wrap  in  five  large  towels 
using  four  ears  for  each  towel.  Put  an  ear  in  the  end  of  a towel,  give  one  or 
two  wraps  to  cover  it  then  put  in  another  ear  in  the  same  way  till  you  have 
a pack  of  four  ears.  Make  the  other  four  packs  in  the  same  way.  Put  one 
pack  at  the  feet,  two  at  the  hips  (one  on  each  side)  and  one  under  each  arm 
and  then  cover  the  patient  up  to  the  neck  and  stay  by  the  bed  and  hold  the 
covers  there  if  necessary.  In  a short  time  the  patient  will  feel  uncomfortable 
from  the  heat  but  soon  there  will  be  moisture  and  comfort.  This  sweat  is  not 
especially  debilitating.  The  patient  will  sweat  for  a few  hours  and  then  the 
sweating  will  gradually  decrease  v/hen  you  should  quickly  give  a warm 
sponge  bath  over  the  entire  body.  Be  careful  not  to  let  the  patient  take  cold. 
Put  a new  night  dress  on  the  patient  and  well-aired  bedding  on  the  bed. 

If  given  in  time  the  corn  sweat  will  break  up  many  diseases.  It  is  also  good 
in  diseases  where  the  system  has  become  clogged.  It  must  then  be  given 
carefully  or  it  will  weaken  the  patient.  In  such  cases  give  stimulants. 

In  giving  the  full  SAveat  the  packs  of  corn  are  not  to  be  taken  away 
while  they  are  still  hot  but  are  to  be  allowed  to  cool  gradually  and  then  they 
may  be  taken  away  without  stopping  the  sweating  too  suddenly.  Should 
the  full  sweat  not  be  desired  you  can  first  take  the  packs  from  under  the 

^ 2 


18 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


arms  and  after  awhile  from  the  hips  and  then  later  from  the  feet.  In  this 
way  tlie  sweating  is  not  checked  suddenly. 

Bronchitis  or  Croup  Tent. — This  is  made  by  throwing  over  the  bed  a 
large  sheet  which  is  held  several  feet  above  the  patient  by  means  of  four 
broomsticks  or  poles  which  are  tied,  one  to  each  corner  of  the  bed.  You 
can  decorate  this  tent  and  make  it  attractive  for  the  child  if  you  wish. 
Into  this  tent,  at  the  foot  of  the  bed,  may  be  discharged  a small  quantity 
of  steam  such  as  is  given  off  from  an  ordinary  kettle  of  water  which  is 
kept  constantly  boiling.  This  is  very  good  for  sore  throat,  quinsy,  croup, 
bronchitis,  asthma,  whooping  cough,  etc. 

Appendicitis,  Peritonitis  and  Other  Pains  in  the  Abdomen. — The  ice  bag 
is  frequently  used  for  appendicitis.  Sometimes  hot  cloths  relieve  the  pain. 
The  covers  should  not  rest  upon  the  patient  with  inflammations  in  this  re- 
gion. Have  barrel  hoops  sawed  in  two  and  make  a frame  to  support  the  bed- 
ding. Especially  in  peritonitis  does  the  bedding  hurt  the  patient.  Patients 
must  be  kept  quiet  and  must  pass  urine  and  feces  in  a bed  pan.  The  food 
must  be  liquid  and  small  in  quantity.  Water  is  generally  allowed.  Pain 
in  the  bowels  when  not  caused  by  disease  is  frequently  relieved  by  rubbing 
and  massaging.  Rub  on  sweet  oil  or  apply  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water 
with  a little  turpentine  in  it.  Gas  colic  is  frequently  relieved  in  this  way. 
Gas  in  the  stomach  is  relieved  by  simple  remedies  such  as  soda,  ginger, 
peppermint,  hot  water,  catnip  tea  and  hot  brandy  or  whisky.  Enemas  are 
also  good. 

Bronchitis,  Pleurisy  and  Pneumonia. — The  temperature  and  ventilation  of 
the  room  should  be  carefully  looked  after.  Do  not  cover  too  thickly;  just 
enough  to  keep  the  patient  warm.  If  poultices  are  used  see  that  they  are  warm 
and  moist.  Do  not  wet  the  patient  with  them.  They  can  be  kept  in  place  with 
adhesive  plaster.  Do  little  talking  in  such  cases  as  it  is  usually  hard  enough 
for  the  patient  to  breathe.  Keep  visitors,  especially  gloomy  ones,  out  of  the 
room.  Aid  in  raising  the  patient  when  he  coughs  and  wipe  the  mucus  from 
his  lips.  Give  the  food  as  regularly  as  the  medicine.  Tell  the  doctor  all  the 
bad  and  all  the  good  symptoms  occurring  between  his  visits  but  do  not  tell 
the  bad  symptoms  to  or  before  the  patient.  Keep  a cheerful  countenance  and 
do  not  scold  if  patients  are  troublesome  and  cross.  Remember  they  are 
suffering.  Have  the  patient  pass  urine  at  least  four  times  a day,  and  use 
the  bed  pan  at  such  times. 

Camphor  and  lard  are  frequently  rubbed  on  the  chest  of  children  with 
lung  and  bronchial  troubles  and  a cotton  jacket  is  often  worn.  When  poul- 
tices are  taken  off  cover  the  parts  with  warm  dry  flannels.  Ice  bags  must 
be  carefully  used  as  some  people  cannot  stand  them.  In  these  diseases  you 
cannot  work  by  set  rules  but  must  meet  the  emergencies  as  they  arise. 

Sore  Throat. — Apply  cold  applications  to  the  throat  or  tonsils  at  the  be- 
ginning and  perhaps  hot  ones  later.  The  application  of  fat  salted  pork  is 
also  good.  Make  a gargle  of  some  simple  remedy  like  salt,  sage,  vinegar, 
pepper  or  hot  water.  Always  keep  the  mouth  and  teeth  clean.  Take  plenty 
of  good  cold  water;  a little  at  a time  but  fremientlv. 

Lumbago,  Sciatica  and  Inflammatory  Rheumatism. — In  these  diseases 
quiet  is  necessary.  Applications  of  moist  heat  are  frequently  helpful.  Mus- 
tard plasters  or  a fly  blister  along  the  region  of  the  sciatic  nerve  are  good 
in  some  cases.  A person  with  inflammatory  rheumatism  needs  lots  of  care 
for  the  pain  is  very  great.  Sometimes  the  pain  in  the  joints  is  eased  by  bath- 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


19 


ing  with  hot  applications  and  in  other  cases  the  joints  need  to  be  covered 
with  cotton.  The  arrangement  of  pillows  to  the  comfort  of  a rheumatic 
patient  is  an  art  th^t  should  and  with  practice  and  patience  can  be  learned 
by  all.  If  you  have  no  patience  you  had  better  not  nurse  such  a case. 

Nervous  Prostration  and  Hysteria. — What  has  been  said  above  regarding 
patience  applies  also  in  case  of  nervous  prostration.  Very  few  nurses  are  of 
much  good  in  thes^  cases  because  they  do  not  sympathize  with  the  patient 
who  is  in  terrible  distress.  Things  which  are  unreal  to  a person  in  health 
are  real  to  the  patient  and  such  a patient  needs  lots  of  encouragement  con- 
stantly and  in  ever  increasing  doses.  Encouragement  and  rest  with  a little 
medicine  and  proper  food  will  effect  a cure.  Nurses  must  also  remember 
that  hysteria  is  a disease  and  not  a whim  to  be  sneezed  at.  No  nurse  should 
make  fun  of  a patient. 

Dysentery  and  Diarrhea. — In  these  cases  it  is  a good  thing  to  give  some- 
thing at  the  beginning  to  move  the  bowels.  Castor  oil,  salts  or  spiced  syrup 
of  rhubarb  are  good.  In  these  diseases  there  is  generally  irritating  material 
in  the  bowels  and  by  giving  a laxative  you  will  get  rid  of  it  and  frequently 
stop  the  bowel  trouble.  A % grain  tablet  of  calomel  every  hour  until  the 
bowels  move  freely  is  also  good  but  either  castor  oil  or  salts  is  almost  always 
at  hand. 

Measles. — Special  care  should  be  taken  of  the  eyes  for  they  are  weak  and 
reading  or  too  much  light  will  ruin  them.  The  patient  should  remain  in  a 
darkened  room  and  should  not  use  the  eyes  much  until  sometime  after  he 
has  recovered  from  the  disease.  Do  not  take  cold.  Sweating  can  be  pro- 
duced by  drinking  hot  teas  or  hot  water  and  even  by  drinking  cold  water 
frequently  and  in  small  quantities. 

Scarlet  Fever. — Always  keep  the  patient  warm  and  comfortable  and  put 
even  the  lightest  case  to  bed.  Be  careful  not  to  let  the  patient  take  cold  or  the 
kidneys  will  become  diseased.  Deafness  is  often  the  result  of  scarlet  fever. 
Above  all  things  do  not  let  the  patient  take  cold. 

Typhoid  Fever. — In  this  disease  any  good  nurse  can  do  much  good.  It  is  a 
long  continued  disease.  There  should  be  regular  feeding  and  attention  paid 
to  the  cleanliness  of  the  patient,  to  the  stools,  urine  and  sputum.  The  body 
must  be  sponged  when  necessary.  The  patient  must  be  kept  quiet  in  bed; 
the  arranging  and  re-arranging  of  the  bed  clothes  and  pillows  must  be  care- 
fully attended  to.  In  typhoid  the  patient  must  never  get  up  to  stool  or  for 
any  other  purpose.  The  intestines  are  very  thin,  ulcerated  and  sore  and 
may  easily  be  ruptured  or  perforated. 

Headache  and  Neuralgia. — For  these  a sensible  nurse  can  do  a great  deal 
of  good.  A mustard  plaster  on  the  back  of  the  neck  relieves  a great  many 
headaches  and  neuralgias.  Hot  or  cold  cloths,  dry  or  wet,  are  good  in  many 
cases.  The  hot  water  bottle  may  be  applied  to  the  back  of  the  neck  for 
congestive  headaches.  The  ice  bag  on  top  of  the  head  is  good  for  conges- 
tive headaches  and  for  brain  diseases.  Rubbing  the  head,  forehead,  temples 
and  the  back  of  the  neck  often  helps  and  produces  sleep.  Rubbing  with 
camphor  or  ammonia  water  is  good  in  some  cases.  All  should  be  done  very 
gently,  quietly  and  sympathetically  and  usually  in  a shaded  quiet  room. 

Earache. — Hot  dry  applications  such  as  a hot  salt  bag,  or  hot  moist 
applications  such  as  hops  and  vinegar  are  excellent.  Use  a bread  and  milk 
poultice  with  a little  laudanum  in  it  for  adults.  The  hot  water  bottle  is 
good  and  hot  bran  will  be  found  effective  when  applied  either  dry  or  moist. 


130 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


CARE  OF  BODY  AFTER  DEATH. 

As  soon  as  the  patient  has  stopped  breathing  and  death  is  certain, 
straighten  the  limbs  and  place  the  arms  by  the  side  or  across  the  chest  as  de- 
sired. Close  the  eyelids  and  keep  them  closed  either  with  your  fingers  or  by 
placing  something  upon  them.  If  false  teeth  have  been  worn  they  should 
be  placed  in  the  mouth  soon  after  death  before  the  jaws  have  set.  Then 
close  the  mouth  and  tie  a handkerchief  under  the  jaw  after  first  putting 
a pad  under  the  jaw.  Tie  the  handkerchief  on  top  of  the  head,  tight 
enough  to  make  the  mouth  close  and  look  natural.  Comb  and,  if  a 
woman,  braid  the  hair;  also  wash  and  dress  the  body  if  so  desired  and 
at  the  same  time  change  the  bed  linen.  Tie  knees  and  ankles  together  wit^ 
a broad  bandage.  You  can  also  bind  the  hands  in  place  if  necessary.  Make 
the  body  look  natural  and  comfortable  and  cover  with  a sheet.  If  the  bod} 
is  clean  I never  could  see  the  use  of  washing  it  after  death.  It  seems  a 

needless  exposure  and  an  unnecessary  annoyance  to  the  relatives.  Call  an 

undertaker  but  do  not  let  him  use  an  injection  until  death  is  an  absolute 
certainty.  If  you  are  not  certain  of  death  keep  the  body  until  signs  of 

decay  are  seen  before  you  allow  any  injection  or  preparation  to  be  used. 

Not  many  people  have  been  buried  alive  but  some  have  been,  so  keep  your 
friends  till  death  is  certain.  Displacement  of  the  body  or  extremities  some- 
times occurs  after  burial.  This  is  generally  due  to  a sudden  contraction  of 
the  muscles.  It  does  not  often  occur  but  such  cases  are  on  record.  That 
person  was  dead  but  simply  had  an  “after  death  ” contraction.  I always 
advise  the  undertaker  to  delay  as  long  as  possible  before  preparing  the  body 
and  in  cold  weather  I can  see  no  necessity  for  using  any  preparation  on  the 
body. 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES. 

“ What  to  Do  ” and  “What  Not  to  Do.” 

APOPLEXY. — (See  General  Treatment.)  Place  patient  in  lying  position 
with  head  higher  than  bod)^  loosen  clothing  and  apply  cold  water  to  head. 
Put  feet  in  hot  mustard  water.  If  tongue  draws  back  put  towel  or  hand- 
kerchief over  it  and  keep  it  forward.  Keep  bowels  open  and  draw  urine  if 
necessary.  Patient  must  remain  quiet. 

ASPHYXIA  OR  SUFFOCATION.— Use  artificial  respiration  as  for 
drowning.  (See  “ Drowning.”) 

BANDAGING. — (See  Chapter  Following.) 

BITES  OF  SNAKES. — If  on  a limb  tie  a rope  or  handkerchief  around  the 
limb  just  above  the  wound.  Cleanse  the  wound  at  once.  Suck  the  wound ; if 
the  poison  is  swallowed  accidentally  it  is  not  very  dangerous.  Cut  the  wound 
open  so  the  blood  will  flow  freely  then  fill  it  with  salt;  or,  if  you  have  it,  use 
permanganate  of  potash.  Give  full  doses  of  this  drug  hypodermically  about 
the  wound.  It  should  be  diluted  three-fourths  with  water  and  should  be  fol- 
lowed with  full  doses  of  brandy  or  whisky.  Tie  tight  above  wound  with 
ligature  and  open  wound  thoroughly. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Plantain  Leaves. — Suck  out  the  poison  and  after  cutting  the  wound 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


open  apply  bruised  plantain  leaves  and  give  a teaspoonful  of  the  juice  from 
the  bruised  leaves  every  hour. 

2.  Baking  Soda. — Cut  open  the  v/ound,  suck  out  the  poison  and  apply 
moistened  baking  soda.  Keep  the  parts  wet  for  several  hours. 

3.  Lime. — Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chloride  of  lime  with  one-half  pint 
of  water.  P>athe  the  wound  promptly  and  freely. 

4.  Turpentine. — Turn  a bottle  of  turpentine  upside  down  over  the 
snake  bite  and  hold  it  there  until  relief  is  obtained. 

5.  Chicken  Entrails. — Kill  a chicken  and  while  warm  cut  open  and  lay 
upon  wound,  entrails  and  all,  and  it  will  draw  out  the  poison. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  draws  well.  It  had  better  be  applied  after 
the  wound  has  been  sucked  and  cauterized. 

6.  Tobacco  and  Salt. — Moisten  some  tobacco  and  salt  and  tie  on  wound 
as  a poultice. 

7.  Onions  and  Salt. — Apply  a poultice  of  onions  and  salt. 

8.  Salt  and  Lamp  Oil. — Arply  table  salt  and  lamp  oil. 

Note. — Use  the  above  after  sucking  and  cauterizing. 

9.  Sucking. — Suck  the  wound. 

BITES  OF  RATTLE-SNAKES. — Cleanse  and  suck  the  wound  and  use 
permanganate  of  potash  as  directed  under  “ Snake  Bites  ” above.  Cauterize 
by  applying  a red  hot  iron. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Salt. — Apply  salt  at  once. 

2.  Soda  and  Salt. — Bandage  above  the  wound,  rub  the  swelling  down- 
ward, poultice  with  soda  and  alternately  keep  the  wound  in  fresh  soda  and 
salt  water,  changing  frequently.  This  receipt  is  from  a person  who  has  had 
experience. 

BITES  AND  STINGS  OF  INSECTS. — For  stings  of  hornets  or  bees  pull 
out  the  sting  and  apply  peroxide  of  hydrogen.  Vinegar  either  pure  or  di- 
luted is  good.  Apply  a mud  poultice  made  of  clay.  For  mosquito  bites  apply 
phenol,  one  part,  mixed  with  water  from  50  to  100  parts. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Witch  Hazel. — Freely  applied  this  gives  quick  relief  in  cases  of 
bites  or  stings  of  mosquitoes,  spiders,  snakes,  bees  or  wasps. 

2.  Ammonia  or  Salt. — For  bites  and  stings  of  insects  bathe  the  pans 
frequently  with  either  ammonia  water  or  salt  and  water. 

Physician’s  Note. — Ammonia  destroys  the  local  poison  by  blistering  the 
part,  thus  drawing  out  the  fluid  poison. 

3.  Olive  Oil. — Apply  olive  oil  to  the  parts. 

4.  Clay. — Wet  clay  earth  or  black  mud  applied  to  bites  and  stings  is 
one  of  the  best  remedies  and  one  that  is  easily  obtained. 

Physician’s  Remark. — I know  this  to  be  good.  There  is  sometimes  dan- 
ger of  infection  but  often  other  remedies  are  not  at  hand. 

5.  Arnica. — Tincture  of  arnica  is  an  old  and  tried  remedy. 

6.  Plantain  Leaves. — In  case  of  a bad  bite  or  sting  of  an  insect  or  a 
snake  apply  a poultice  made  of  common  plantain  leaves.  This  is  one  of  the 
very  best  remedies  and  one  does  not  generally  have  to  look  far  to  find  plan- 
tain as  all  are  aware  who  have  tried  to  keep  it  out  of  the  lawns  and  gardens. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Plantain  has  quite  an  action  on  the  skin.  It  is 


22 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


also  good  for  ivy  poisoning,  burns,  scalds  and  bruises.  Pound  the  fresh 
leaves  to  a paste  and  apply. 

7.  Catnip  and  Plantain. — Another  lady  writes  that  for  bites  and  stings 
of  all  kinds  of  insects  she  applies  bruised  catnip  and  plantain  leaves  to  the 
parts  and  gives  a teaspoonful  of  the  juice  of  the  plantain  every  hour.. 

8.  Salt  and  Soda. — Table  salt  and  baking  soda,  in  equal  parts,  applied 
to  spider  bites  will  relieve  the  pain  and  stop  the  swelling. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Salt  draws  and  soda  soothes. 

9.  Onion. — For  bites  and  stings  apply  a piece  of  raw  onion  to  the 
wound.  Change  the  piece  of  onion  every  ten  minutes  and  relief  will  soon 
be  obtained.  One  physician  says  he  uses  no  other  remedy. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Raw  onion  is  irritating  and  stimulating  to  the 
skin  and  causes  the  skin  to  discharge  a fluid  thus  ridding  the  part  of  the 
local  poison.  Keep  on  for  three  or  four  hours. 

10.  Baking  Soda. — Apply  baking  soda  to  the  affected  parts  for  stings. 

11.  Clay  . — For  stings  apply  a poultice  of  clay. 

12.  Coal  Oil. — In  case  of  stings  apply  coal  oil  freely. 

BITES  OF  DOGS. — See  article  on  ''  Hydrophobia  ” in  general  depart- 
ment. 

BITES  FROM  CATS.— See  “ Hydrophobia.” 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  For  bites  from  cats  bathe  the  parts  bitten  with  extract  of  witch  hazel 
or  if  badly  bitten  wet  cotton  cloth  in  the  same  and  bind  on  and  keep  parts 
wet.  I have  found  witch  hazel  will  kill  all  such  poison. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Better  kill  the  cat. 

BLEEDING  OR  HEMORRHAGE.— (For  Bleeding  from  Nose  see 
Nose  Bleed.”)  Apply  alum  locally.  Eat  cinnamon  for  uterine  hemorrhage 
of  the  oozing  kind  or  use  tannic  acid  diluted  or  white  oak  bark  tea  locally  as  a 
douche.  Common  salt  is  good  for  light  bleeding.  If  the  bleeding  is  from  an 
artery  and  comes  in  spurts  tie  a rope  or  handkerchief  around  the  limb  between 
the  wound  and  heart.  Put  a stick  under  the  rope  or  handkerchief  and  twist 
tight.  If  the  bleeding  is  from  veins  put  the  rope  or  handkerchief  on  the 
side  of  the  wound  farthest  from  the  heart.  If  a finger  is  cut  tie  a cord  about 
it  tightly  above  the  wound  and  press  on  the  artery  with  the  fingers.  In 
severe  bleeding  place  the  patient  flat  on  the  ground  and  have  him  smell  of 
camphor  or  ammonia.  If  the  hemorrhage  is  from  the  lungs  the  blood  will  be 
a bright  red  and  be  mixed  with  air  and  consequently  frothy.  If  the  blood  is 
from  the  stomach  it  is  more  likely  to  be  of  a dark  color.  In  either  case  have 
the  patient  lie  flat  and  remain  quiet.  Give  strong  salt  water  and  give  the 
patient  ice  in  the  mouth.  If  the  bleeding  is  from  the  stomach  apply  cloths 
wrung  out  of  cold  water  to  the  stomach. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Vinegar. — For  bleeding  from  the  stomach  give  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
vinegar  or  a little  cold  water  every  half  hour. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Vinegar  is  slightly  astringent. 

2.  Lemon  Juice. — To  stop  bleeding  from  the  stomach  an  excellent 
remedy  is  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  in  some  cold  water.  Repeat  this 
every  half  hour  until  the  bleeding  stops. 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


23 

3.  Ice. — Give  the  patient  a little  cracked  ice  until  the  bleeding  from 
the  stomach  is  controlled. 

4.  Sage  and  Honey. — To  stop  vomiting  of  blood  give  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  sage  juice  mixed  with  a little  honey.  Repeat  in  fifteen  minutes  i£ 
necessary 

5.  Salt.* — Small  quantities  of  salt  will  stop  bleeding  from  the  stomach 
or  lungs.  A teaspoonful  or  two  is  generally  sufficient. 

6.  Alum. — Pulverized  alum  dissolved  in  water  is  good  for  bleeding 
from  the  stomach. 

7.  Cranesbill. — Powdered  cranesbill  applied  to  the  parts  and  covered 
with  a compress  of  cotton  is  good  for  bleeding  and  for  ulcers. 

8.  Flour  and  Salt. — A mixture  of  flour  and  salt  in  equal  parts  bound 
upon  the  cut  will  stop  bleeding. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Salt  is  an  astringent  and  therefore  contracts  the 
blood  vessels  thus  keeping  the  part  from  being  congested  or  over  crowded 
with  blood.  In  this  way  it  stops  bleeding  and  also  helps  to  cure  inflamed 
eyes. 

9.  Black  Tea. — Finely  powdered  black  tea  bound  upon  the  cut  is  one  of 
the  very  best  remedies  used  by  many  surgeons.  Where  a doctor  is  not  at 
hand  many  lives  would  be  saved  if  this  remedy  were  more  generally  known. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Tea  is  an  astringent  and  also  has  a soothing  effect. 

10.  Rosin. — Bind  some  finely  powdered  rosin  upon  the  cut.  This  is  a 
very  effective  remedy. 

11.  Charcoal. — Take  some  charcoal  made  by  burning  rags,  put  it  in  the 
wound  and  the  bleeding  will  stop.  If  a person  be  away  from  home  with  no 
aid  at  hand  and  the  cut  is  severe  he  should  not  hesitate  to  burn  a handker- 
chief or  even  a part  of  his  clothing.  This  treatment  should  be  more  gener- 
ally known  especially  by  those  who  are  alone  in  the  woods  using  axes. 

12.  Alum  Water. — If  the  bleeding  is  from  the  cavity  of  an  extracted 
tooth  pack  the  part  with  cotton  wet  in  alum  water. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Alum  is  an  astringent  and  contracts  the  blood 
vessels  so  that  less  blood  goes  to  that  part. 

13.  Cobwebs  or  Puff  Balls. — Either  cobwebs  or  puff  balls  will  stop 
bleeding  and  should  be  used  if  nothing  else  is  at  hand  though  care  should  be 
taken  that  they  be  not  mixed  with  filth  of  any  kind  or  poisoning  might  be 
the  result. 

14.  Wood  Ashes. — Wood  ashes  bound  upon  the  cut  will  stop  bleeding. 
It  is  also  effective  for  a horse  that  has  been  cut  in  a barbed  wire  fence. 

15.  Brown  Sugar. — If  the  cut  is  slight  bind  some  brown  sugar  upon  the 
parts  or  apply  wet  brown  paper. 

16.  Sole  Leather. — Shave  the  flesh  side  of  sole  leather  and  bind  upon 
the  cut. 

17.  Gunpowder. — Put  some  gunpowder  on  a piece  of  cotton  batting  and 
bind  upon  the  cut. 

18.  Copperas  and  Alum. — Styptic  powder  is  composed  of  one  ounce  of 
copperas  and  one  ounce  of  alum.  Each  article  should  be  pulverized  and 
mixed.  Put  on  a shovel,  burn  to  a red  heat  and  then  dry  to  a red  mixture. 
Pulverize  finely  and  bottle  for  use.  Sprinkle  on  the  wound  in  the  dry  form. 
There  is  nothing  better. 

19.  Lamp  Oil. — Pour  some  lamp  oil  upon  the  wound. 


2-I 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


BONES,  BROKEN  AND  FRACTURED.— (See  Chapter  on  Bandag- 
ing ” which  follov^s.j 

BLISTERS  AND  BLOOD  BLISTERS.— 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Warm  Water. — Bathe  the  blistered  parts  frequently  in  warm  water. 
This  is  mucli  better  tlian  drawing  a thread  through  them  as  many  do. 

2.  Tallow. — Make  a salve  by  dropping  the  tallow  from  a lighted  candle 
into  a little  gin.  Apply  this  at  night  before  going  to  bed  if  the  blisters  are  on 
the  hands  or  feet. 

3.  Drilling  Nail. — If  the  finger  is  bruised  causing  blood  blister  under 
the  nail  it  should  at  once  be  drilled  with  some  sharp  pointed  instrument  so  as 
to  let  the  blood  escape.  This  will  give  immediate  relief  while  otherwise  it 
might  become  quite  painful. 

4.  Sweet  Oil,  Beeswax  and  Turpentine. — To  prevent  the  forming  of  a 
blister  apply  immediately  the  following  salve  to  the  bruised  parts.  Take 
equal  parts  of  sweet  oil,  beeswax  and  turpentine ; melt  the  wax  and  oil  to- 
gether and  when  pretty  cool  add  the  turpentine  and  stir  until  cold.  Spread 
on  a cloth  and  apply.  This  is  excellent  for  bruises  or  scalds. 

5.  Poultice  of  Cabbage  Leaves. — An  old  remedy  in  use  among  the 
Romans  for  blisters  was  a poultice  of  cabbage  leaves.  Put  them  into  warm 
water  to  soften  and  apply  while  warm.  This  remedy  is  still  used  by  many 
nurses  in  our  large  hospitals. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Cabbage  leaves  have  a soothing  eflfect  somewhat 
like  lettuce. 

BRUISES  AND  SLIGHT  CUTS. — Apply  arnica  freely.  Lead  water  di- 
luted with  four  parts  of  water  may  be  applied  locally  if  the  skin  is  not  broken. 
Another  good  application  is  laudanum,  1 part ; lead  water,  4 parts  and  water, 
16  parts.  For  severe  bruises  I always  give  arnica  internally,  in  5-drop  doses 
every  three  hours. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Witch  Hazel. — Bathe  the  parts  freely  with  witch  hazel. 

2.  Arnica. — Take  one  part  tincture  of  arnica  and  six  parts  water.  Wet 
a cloth  with  the  liquid  and  apply  over  the  bruise. 

3.  Mullein  Leaves. — Fomentations  of  mullein  leaves  are  excellent  for 
bruises  and  swellings  on  either  man  or  beast.  (Fomentations  are  explained 
at  beginning  of  Herb  Department.) 

4.  Cranesbill. — An  excellent  thing  for  cuts  or  wounds  where  the  skin 
is  rubbed  off  is  cranesbill  leaves  bruised  and  applied  to  the  parts. 

5.  Rosin. — You  will  find  nothing  better  for  a cut  than  powdered  rosin. 
Put  a little  on  the  injured  part,  wrap  with  a soft  cloth  and  keep  it  wet  with 
water. 

6.  Alum  V/ater. — ‘‘  Cuts  or  bruises  will  quickly  heal  if  bound  up  with 
a cloth  wet  with  alum  water,”  writes  a lady  from  Minnesota. 

7.  Salt  Pork. — If  you  have  stepped  on  a nail  bind  a piece  of  the  rind 
of  salt  pork  on  the  part  and  keep  quiet  till  it  heals. 

Physician’s  Remark. — First  put  on  a hot  bread  and  milk  poultice,  change 
frequently  and  keep  on  until  the  wound  bleeds  well  then  put  on  the  salt  pork. 

Hot  Water. — A treatment  used  extensively  in  hospitals  is  to  dip 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT 


pieces  of  cotton  batting  into  very  hot  water  and  apply  to  cuts,  bruises  and 
sprains. 

9.  Cold  Water. — Bathe  the  bruised  parts  thoroughly  with  cold  water. 

10.  Chloroform  Liniment  for  Bruises. — Mix  one  ounce  of  chloroform, 
one  ounce  of  ammonia,  one  ounce  of  laudanum  and  one  ounce  of  sweet  oil. 
Bathe  the  parts  well  To  be  shaken  well  before  using.  A lady  in  Bethany, 
W.  Va.  says  she  has  used  this  chloroform  liniment  for  years  and  always 
with  good  results. 

11.  Smoking. — Take  live  coals,  burn  woolen  cloths  upon  them  with  a 
small  pinch  of  sugar,  hold  bruised  parts  over  the  smoke.  Will  take  all  sore- 
ness away.  A lady  living  at  Garrettsville,  Ohio,  says  she  has  used  this  many 
times  with  excellent  results. 

12.  Sugar  and  Camphor. — Brown  sugar  and  spirits  of  camphor  tied  on, 
or  a poultice  of  comfrey  roots,  will  remove  the  blueness  of  a bruise, 

13.  Smartweed  Poultice. — Steep  some  smartweed,  thicken  with  wheat 
flour  and  make  into  a poultice.  A lady  living  at  Independence,  Iowa,  says 
her  husband  was  very  badly  bruised  in  a run-away  and  that  the  application 
of  this  smartweed  tea  made  a new  man  of  him. 

• 14.  Hot  Water.— Another  lady  who  speaks  from  experience  says  that 
hot  water  is  the  best  thing  that  can  be  used  to  heal  a sprain  or  bruise.  The 
wounded  part  should  be  placed  in  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  for  15  min- 
utes and  in  all  probability  the  pain  will  disappear.  Hot  water  applied  by 
means  of  cloths  is  a sovereign  remedy  for  neuralgia  or  pleurisy  pains. 

BURNS  AND  SCALDS. — Lime  water  with  equal  parts  of  either  linseed 
oil  or  olive  oil  is  very  good.  For  small  burns  washing  soda  is  good.  The  ap- 
plication of  either  cold  cream,  vaseline  or  pineoline  is  also  very  good.  If  the 
skin  is  not  broken  very  much  dust  on  some  boric  acid  powder  and  then  apply 
either  vaseline  or  pineoline.  Pineoline  is  preferable.  To  make  bees-wax  oint- 
ment take  6 ounces  of  benzoated  lard,  1 ounce  of  yellow  bees-wax  and  20  grains 
of  salicylic  acid.  Melt  the  wax  in  a tin  cup  then  add  the  lard.  When  all  is 
melted  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  till  cold.  Then  add  the  salicylic  acid 
and  continue  stirring  until  cold.  It  makes  a varnish  over  the  burned  parts 
that  excludes  the  air  and  sheds  moisture. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Wood  Soot  and  Lard. — Apply  wood-soot  ointment  which  is  made  by 
mixing  an  ounce  of  finely  powdered  wood-soot  with  four  ounces  of  lard.  It 
should  be  spread  on  cotton  batting  and  applied  to  burns,  scald-head  or  other 
diseases  of  the  skin. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  acts  as  a local  sedative  and  quiets  pain. 

2.  Lime  Water  and  Linseed  Oil. — Apply  equal  parts  of  lime  water  and 
linseed  oil  to  the  burns  or  scalded  parts  and  cover  with  raw  cotton.  If  de- 
sired, one  part  of  carbolic  acid  may  be  added  to  fifty  parts  of  the  liquid. 
Lime  water  alone  is  good. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  forms  a covering  thus  keeping  the  air  from 
the  burn. 

3.  Castile  Soap. — A nice  application  for  burns  or  scalds  is  castile  soap 
scraped  and  mixed  with  water  till  it  makes  a thick  lather.  Spread  this  thickly 
on  a piece  of  linen  or  cotton  cloth  and  apply  to  the  burned  surface. 


26 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


4.  Flour. — Flour  sprinkled  on  the  burn  or  raw  cotton  spread  out  thin 
are  good  applications. 

5.  Baking  Soda. — A fine  thing  for  burns  and  scalds  is  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a pint  of  water.  Wet  cotton  cloths  in  this 
solution  and  apply  to  the  parts.  Keep  wet  and  well  wrapped  up. 

6.  Alum  Water. — Dissolve  two  ounces  of  alum  in  a pint  of  water.  Sat- 
urate cotton  cloths  in  this  alum  water  and  apply  to  the  burn.  Keep  well 
wrapped  up  and  the  pain  will  soon  be  relieved  and  healing  commenced. 

?.  Cosmoline. — Dress  the  burned  or  scalded  parts  with  cosmoline  and 
cover  with  one  thickness  of  cotton  cloth ; then,  to  keep  out  the  air,  wrap 
the  whole  with  absorbent  cotton.  A number  of  persons  write  telling  of  the 
excellent  results  obtained  from  the  use  of  this  remedy. 

8.  White  of  Egg. — Perhaps  the  most  soothing  application  for  burns  or 
scalds  is  the  white  of  an  egg  It  thoroughly  excludes  the  air  and  stops  the 
smarting  pain  and  is  always  at  hand  for  immediate  use. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  will  be  found  to  be  an  excellent  application 
for  burns  and  scalds. 

9.  Alum,  Lard  and  Eggs. — Add  a dram  of  finely  powdered  alum  to  a 
teacupful  of  lard  or  vaseline  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  whites  of  two 
eggs.  Spread  on  a cloth  and  apply.  This  is  especially  valuable  where  the 
skin  has  been  burned  from  a large  surface.  It  prevents  inflammation  and 
gives  almost  instant  relief. 

10.  Charcoal. — Finely  powdered  charcoal  is  excellent  when  applied  to 
burns. 

11.  Scraped  Potato. — A poultice  of  scraped  raw  potatoes  is  a fine  appli- 
cation for  burns  or  scalds.  Powdered  charcoal  may  be  mixed  with  the  potato 
with  excellent  results. 

12.  Glycerine  or  Sweet  Oil. — Apply  either  glycerine  or  sweet  oil. 

13.  Alcohol. — For  burns  from  carbolic  acid  apply  alcohol.  If  applied 
immediately  the  acid  will  not  even  make  the  flesh  red. 

14.  Clive  Oil  and  Camphor  Gum. — Take  some  olive  oil  and  put  in  all 
the  camphor  gum  it  will  cut.  Pour  a generous  quantity  upon  the  affected 
parts  and  bind  up  in  clean  linen.  Apply  fresh  every  day. 

15.  White  of  Eggs  and  Lard. — Beat  the  white  of  eggs  to  a froth  and 
then  beat  in  some  fresh  lard.  Apply  and  bind  up  with  clean  linen. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  forms  a coating  and  keeps  the  air  out. 

16.  Vaseline  and  Carbolic  Acid. — Apply  vaseline  plentifully,  cover  with 
absorbent  cotton  and  then  wrap  with  a cloth.  For  serious  burns  bathe  twice 
a day  by  dipping  a clean  cloth  into  warm  water  with  a little  carbolic  acid  in 
it  but  do  not  let  the  cloth  touch  the  burn.  Only  let  the  water  drip  on  the 
wound  and  then  apply  the  vaseline  fresh,  immediately  after  the  bathing  each 
time,  until  well.  It  is  a sure  cure. 

17.  Gum  Arabic  and  Carbolic  Acid. — Take  1%  ounces  of  gum  arabic,  4 
or  5 drops  of  carbolic  acid  and  1 pint  of  rain  water.  Boil  the  water  and  put 
the  gum  arabic  into  it  to  dissolve  and  when  cold  add  the  carbolic  acid.  Apply 
to  burns  and  scalds. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  forms  a good  coating.  The  intent  in  treating 
burns  and  scalds  is  to  apply  something  soft  to  the  part  to  exclude  the  air. 
Oily,  greasy  substances  are  generally  good  and  are  generally  at  hand.  Cream, 
vaseline  and  lard  are  good. 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


27 


18.  Boracic  Acid. — Apply  powdered  boracic  acid  dry  to  the  parts.  Keep 
the  parts  dry  with  it  all  the  time.  Just  for  a small  place  on  the  hands 
apply  the  white  of  an  egg.  It  will  not  blister  and  keeps  the  air  away.  A 
lady  writes  that  her  little  girl  fell  on  a stove  and  burned  her  face  and  hands 
terribly.  She  applied  the  boracic  acid  as  above  and  not  even  a scar  was  left. 

19.  Lard. — Spread  lard  on  a clean  cloth  and  bind  on  the  affected  parts. 
The  lard  must  not  be  salted.  This  is  a simple  and  good  remedy.  The  lard 
should  be  spread  on  quite  thick. 

20.  Flour  and  Sweet  Oil. — Cover  immediately  with  flour  and  then  put 
on  sweet  oil  and  bandage  quickly. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  a good  sensible  remedy  and  is  practical 
for  you  nearly  always  have  it  at  hand. 

CHOKING. — For  choking  from  a foreign  body,  such  as  food,  slap  hard  on 
the  person’s  back  between  the  shoulders.  If  it  be  a small  child  and  cannot 
otherwise  be  relieved  take  hold  of  the  heels  and  turn  it  upside  down  and 
shake  a little.  Put  your  finger  in  fhe  throat,,  tickle  and  cause  vomiting.  Or 
you  can  take  the  rubber  tube  from  a syringe  after  the  hard  rubber  part  has 
been  taken  off  and  put  this  tube  down  the  throat.  This  will  cause  vomiting 
or  will  push  the  object  down  the  gullet  and  allow  the  person  to  breathe.  Of 
course  if  the  object  is  in  the  windpipe  you  must  not  push  it  down. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  How  to  Treat  for  Choking. — Seize  the  patient  by  the  heels,  hold 
him  head  downwards  and  strike  sudden  blows  between  the  shoulders.  This 
treatment  has  saved  many  a child’s  life  and  every  mother  and  nurse  should 
remember  it  in  case  of  emergency  where  a doctor  is  not  at  hand. 

2.  Raw  Egg. — Break  an  egg  into  a cup  and  let  the  patient  swallow  it 
at  a gulp. 

3.  Blowing  into  Ear. — A naval  surgeon  writes  that  any  foreign  body 
which  is  lodged  in  the  throat  can  be  removed  by  blowing  forcibly  into  the  ear. 

4.  Pressing  on  Tongue. — Put  the  finger  far  back  in  the  mouth  and 
press  upon  the  back  part  of  the  tongue  to  cause  vomiting. 

5.  Potato  or  Bread. — Have  the  patient  swallow  a large  piece  of  potato 
or  bread. 

6.  Mustard  Water. — Give  an  emetic  such  as  mustard  water. 

CONVULSIONS  OR  SPASMS. — Keep  the  child  perfectly  quiet  and  put 

ice  or  cold  water  cloths  on  the  head.  Put  feet  in  hot  mustard  water  and  wrap 
entire  body  in  towel"  which  have  beeii  dipped  in  warm  mustard  water.  Use 
two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  to  a quart  of  warm  water.  If  there 
is  undigested  food  in  the  child’s  stomach  produce  vomiting  by  tickling  the 
throat.  Put  the  handle  of  a knife  or  fork  in  the  child’s  mouth  to  prevent  its 
biting  your  finger  or  its  own  tongue.  If  there  is  anything  ir  th<^  bowels  give 
a large  injection.  If  the  convulsions  continue  till  the  face  is  very  pale,  the 
pulse  weak,  the  feet  and  hands  cold  and  the  nails  and  lips  blue — then  the 
hot  bath  must  be  resorted  to.  Have  the  water  at  about  106  degrees  or  put 
your  arm  in  the  water  to  the  elbow.  The  water  should  then  feel  warm  but 
not  uncomfortable.  It  is  well  to  add  half  a cup  of  mustard  to  the  bath. 
Excepting  the  head  put  the  child’s  entire  body  in  the  water.  To  prevent  the 
return  of  the  convulsions  give  the  following  internally:  one-half  dram  of 
bromide  of  potash,  15  grains  of  chloral  hydrate  and  2 ounces  of  simple 


2S 


PltOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


syrup.  Mix  and  shake  thoroughly  and  give  a teaspoonlul  every  hour  while 
the  child  is  nervous  or  feverish.  This  dose  is  for  a child  a year  old. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Warm  Mustard  Water. — If  the  convulsions  are  caused  by  over  load- 
ing the  stomach,  vomiting  should  be  induced  by  giving  warm  water  or 
tickling  the  throat.  If  the  convulsions  are  slight  perhaps  all  that  will  be 
found  necessary  is  to  put  the  feet  in  warm  mustard  water.  In  case  of  severe 
convulsions  the  following  general  treatment  has  saved  hundreds  of  lives. 
First  put  the  child  in  a warm  bath  as  soon  as  possible  and  while  in  the  bath, 
pour  a steady  stream  of  cold  water  upon  its  head  but  not  from  a great  height. 
Continue  to  pour  while  the  head  is  hot  or  until  the  fit  has  passed.  Keep 
the  child  in  tlie  warm  bath  until  the  convulsions  are  over  which  is  generally 
from  ten  to  twenty  minutes.  When  taken  from  the  bath  wrap  the  child 
immediately  in  a warm  woolen  blanket  without  even  stopping  to  wipe  him 
off.  Sojnetimes  it  will  be  found  necessary  to  inject  the  bowels  with  warm 
water  to  which  has  been  added  a tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  and  a little  of 
the  suds  from  castile  soap.  Repeat  this  till  the  bowels  move.  This  treat- 
ment is  probably  the  very  one  your  doctor  would  use  were  he  called  Snd  in 
an  emergency  can  be  used  equally  well  by  the  parent.  Therefore  let  this 
treatment  be  adopted  by  every  mother  who  values  the  life  of  her  child. 

Ph^/sician’s  Remark. — This  treatment  is  used  by  many  physicians  and 
can  be  depended  upon.  It  draws  the  blood  from  the  head  to  the  extremities 
and  establishes  a good  general  circulation. 

2.  Salt  and  Water. — Give  a teaspoonful  of  salt  and  water  and  put  the 
feet  and  legs  in  hot  water. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  salt  is  to  cause  vomiting. 

3.  Mustard  V/ater. — As  soon  as  the  fit  comes  on  dip  some  cloths  into 
hot  mustard  water  and  wrap  the  child’s  feet  and  the  lower  part  of  the  limbs, 
leaving  the,  cloths  on  until  the  skin  is  quite  red. 

4.  Hot  Water  and  Salt. — The  simplest  way  to  bring  a child  out  of  a 
spasm  is  to  put  its  feet  into  Lot  water  and  force  a little  salt  water  into  its 
mouth. 

5.  General  Treatment. — Ice  water  to  head  and  throat,  hot  water  to 
feet  and  wrists  and  as  soon  as  possible  put  a mustard  plaster  or  poultice  to 
the  wrists  and  soles  of  the  feet.  Give  an  injection  of  warm  soap  suds  and 
also  a mild  laxative. 

Physician’s  Remark. — When  the  head  is  too  hot  cold  water  will  contract 
the  blood  vessels  and  cause  less  blood  to  be  carried  there.  Hot  water  to 
feet  and  wrists  causes  the  blood  to  flow  better  in  the  extremities.  Mustard 
aids  by  increasing  the  circulation  of  the  skin.  When  the  head  and  face  are 
red  and  congested  the  aim  is  to  get  the  blood  away  from  the  head  and 
increase  the  circulation  in  other  parts  of  the  body. 

6.  Plot  Bath. — As  quickly  as  possible  put  the  patient  into  as  hot  a 
bath  as  he  can  stand. 

7.  Salt  and  MufJtard  Water. — ^Teaspoonful  of  salt  put  into  bath  of 
warm  mustard  water. 

CUTS. — (See  “ Bruises  and  Slight  Cuts.”  For  severe  cuts  see  “ Bleed- 

ing-”) 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


29 


CRAMPS. — Externally  apply  belladonna  liniment.  Ginger  tea  is  very 
good  for  menstrual  cramp. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Bandaging. — If  the  cramp  occurs  in  the  leg  it  can  frequently  be 
relieved  by  tying  a cord  around  the  leg  above  the  cramp. 

2.  Drawing  up  Foot. — To  obtain  r^hef  from  cramps  in  the  calf  of  the 
’eg  draw  the  top  of  the  foot  up  as  closely  as  possible  to  the  shin  and  hold 
it  there  until  the  cramping  has  ceased. 

3.  Red  Pepper  and  Whisky, — Apply  red  pepper  and  whisky  for  cramps 
in  the  neck  or  leg. 

4.  Tansy,  Hops  or  Mustard. — Warm  fomentations  of  tansy,  hops,  or 
mustard  will  relieve  cramps  in  the  stomach. 

5.  Various  Remedies. — For  cramps  in  the  limbs  wear  eel  skin  garters. 
For  cram.ps  in  stomach  make  a tea  of  merwine  root  and  drink  the  same  or 
take  30  drops  of  Jamaica  ginger  diluted  with  water. 

6.  Rhubarb,  Cayenne,  Etc. — Take  tincture  of  rhubarb,  tincture  of  cay- 
enne pepper,  tincture  of  opium,  spirits  of  camphor  and  essence  of  pepper- 
mint ; of  each  equal  parts.  For  an  adult  give  a teaspoonful  at  a dose  every 
half  hour  until  four  doses  have  been  taken. 

7.  Hot  Applications. — Apply  hot  applications. 

8.  Mustard  Poultices. — Apply  hot  cloths.  A mustard  poultice  is  very 
good  in  some  cases. 

DISLOCATIONS. — (See  chapter  on  Bandaging  ” following.) 

DIZZINESS  OR  VERTIGO. — This  is  often  due  to  stomach,  liver  or 
bowel  troubles  and  rarely  to  brain  disease.  Heart  troubles,  general  weakness 
and  poorly  fitting  glasses  are  other  causes.  Vertigo  frequently  comes  from 
biliousness  and  constipation  and  is  sometimes  due  to  fermenting  food  in 
the  stomach  and  bowels.  It  is  always  a good  plan  to  keep  the  bowels  mov- 
ing regularly  one  or  twice  a day.  Eat  less  and  do  not  eat  food  that  disagrees 
with  you.  Rich,  greasy  food  is  not  good  for  persons  suffering  with  vertigo. 
(See  “ Fainting.”) 

DROWNING. — Remove  all  dirt,  saliva,  etc.,  from  the  mouth  and,  pulling 
the  tongue  well  forward,  hold  it  there  with  forceps  or  by  means  of  a cloth 
passed  around  it  and  held  by  the  hand. 

Remove  clothing,  especially  from  the  upper  part  of  the  body. 

Place .tf'ie  patient  on  his  stomach,  stand  straddle  of  him  and  lift  him  up 
by  putting  your  arms  around  the  middle  of  his  body  and  let  his  head  hang 
down  so  the  water  can  run  from  the  lungs  out  of  the  mouth. 

Turn  the  patient  on  his  back  and  place  a roll  of  clothing  under  the  small 
of  his  back.  Also  place  something  under  his  shoulders  and  head. 

Use  artificial  respiration.  Stand  or  kneel  above  or  at  the  head  of  the 
patient,  grasp  the  arms  at  the  elbow  and  draw  them  steadily  and  slowly 
upward  above  the  head  and  keep  them  stretched  for  a couple  of  seconds. 
Then  bring  the  arms  down  to  the  sides  again  and  press  them  firmly  for 
a couple  of  seconds  against  the  sides  of  the  chest.  Repeat  these  movements 
regularly  from  fifteen  to  twenty  times  a minute  and  persevere  in  them  for  an 
hour  or  even  two  hours  if  necessary.  An  assistant  should  press  on  the  lower 
border  of  the  ribs  and  pit  of  stomach  while  the  arms  are  pressed  against  the 
sides.  Rub  the  limbs  ivhile  this  is  being  done.  Dash  hot  and  cold  water  alter- 


30 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


nately  upon  the  chest.  If  necessary,  put  in  warm  bath  while  artificial  respira-* 
tion  is  still  continued. 

The  clothes  must  be  taken  off,  the  ton^g^ue  drawn  out  and  the  mouth 
cleaned  quickly  and  artificial  respiration  commenced  as  soon  as  possible. 
After  breathing  has  been  established  put  the  patient  into  a warm  bed  in  a 
room  which  is  kept  well  ventilated.  For  nourishment  and  as  a stimulant 
inject  the  bowels  with  brandy  and  beef  tea.  Do  not  let  bystanders  crowd 
about  the  patient  and  keep  the  air  from  him. 

EAR,  THINGS  IN. — Insects  sometimes  get  into  the  ear.  Pour  water  as 
hot  as  it  can  be  borne  into  the  ear  and  hold  it  there  for  a few  minutes. 
Then  turn  the  head  and  let  the  water  run  into  a basin  so  that  you  can  see 
whether  or  not  the  insect  comes  out.  If  foreign  bodies  are  in  the  ear  you 
can  use  an  ear  spoon  but  it  must  be  used  gently.  A crochet  hook  or  a email 
hair  pin  properly  bent  may  also  be  used.  Do  not  use  force  for  the  ear  is 
very  easily  injured.  If  you  cannot  get  the  body  out  easily  you  should  see 
a doctor. 

EPILEPSY.— (See  “ Fits.”) 

EYE,  THINGS  IN. — If  under  the  lower  lid  pull  the  lid  down  and  wipe  the 
object  off  with  a smooth  cloth.  If  under  the  upper  lid  put  the  first  finger 
of  your  left  hand  in  the  center  of  the  lid  about  half  an  inch  from  the  edge 
and  take  hold  of  the  eye  winkers  with  two  fingers  of  the  other  hand.  Pull 
down  and  then  up  over  the  finger  of  the  left  hand  thus  exposing  the  inner 
surface  of  the  lid  so  that  the  object  may  be  wiped  off.  The  patient  should 
look  at  the  end  of  his  nose  while  this  is  being  done.  A flaxseed  placed  in  the 
eye  will  frequently  push  the  object  from  under  the  lid.  Another  way  is  to 
pull  the  lid  down  with  the  fingers  and  then  blow  the  nose  violently.  If 
some  foreign  object  like  a piece  of  steel  is  lodged  in  the  ball  of  the  eye  a 
doctor  will  be  required  to  remove  it. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Removing  with  Pencil. — Roll  the  lid  upward  over  a lead  pencil  then 
draw  the  pencil  backward  and  forward  several  times.  This  seldom  fails 
to  remove  the  foreign  body. 

2.  Blowing  Nose. — With  the  thumb  and  finger  keep  the  eye  open 
while  blowing  the  nose  vigorously. 

3.  Flaxseed. — One  grain  of  flaxseed  put  in  the  eye. 

4.  Treatment  For. — Shut  the  eye  and  take  hold  of  the  upper  lid  by  the 
lashes,  roll  the  eye  around  and  pull  the  upper  lid  down  over  the  lower  one 
and  let  go. 

5.  Immersing  in  Water. — To  remove  dirt  from  the  eye  immerse  it  in 
cold  water  and  while  thus  immersed  roll  and  wink  the  eye  till  the  dirt  is 
worked  out. 

6.  Olive  Oil. — A celebrated  eye  specialist  of  Holland  says  there  is 
nothing  better  to  remove  specks,  dirt  or  lime  from  the  eyes  than  to  pour 
olive  oil  into  them  till  all  hurtful  substances  are  washed  out.  This,  he  says, 
is  painless  and  seldom  fails. 

7.  Camel’s  Hair  Prnsh. — Cinders  and  dust  may  be  removed  by  wetting 
a small  camel’s  hair  brush  in  water  then  raising  the  lid  and  passing  the  brush 
over  the  eyeball. 

FAINTING. — Do  not  get  rattled.  Place  the  patient  flat  on  the  back; 
loosen  clothing;  give  plenty  of  air;  sprinkle  water  on  the  face;  put  camphor, 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


31 


ammonia  or  smelling  salts  to  the  nose;  rub  the  hands  and  feet  and  give 
brandy  or  whiskey.  Generally  the  head  should  be  placed  low.  Do  not  allow 
a crowd  to  gather  and  shut  off  the  air  from  the  patient.  The  head  and  face 
may  be  bathed  with  camphor  or  cool  water.  Have  the  patient  remain  lying 
down  until  the  faint  feeling  is  entirely  gone.  If  the  fainting  is  caused  by 
some  disease  stimulants  should  be  given. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Aromatic  Spirits  of  Ammonia. — Give  half  a teaspoonful  of  aromatic 
spirits  of  ammonia  in  a wineglassful  of  water  and  you  will  revive  the  patient. 

2.  General  Treatment. — Lay  the  patient  upon  his  back  and  admit  plenty 
of  fresh  air.  The  face  should  be  sprinkled  with  cold  water  and  the  arms  and 
legs  should  be  rubbed.  Hold  spirits  of  ammonia,  camphor  or  vinegar  to  the 
nostrils.  As  soon  as  the  patient  can  swallow  give  a teaspoonful  of  compound 
spirits  of  lavender. 

FALLS. — Immediately  after  a bad  fall  do  not  allow  the  patient  to  lie  down 
and  sleep  as  there  is  danger  of  the  blood  clotting  in  the  brain  and  causing 
death.  Keep  the  patient  awake. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Salt  Water. — To  revive  a person  who  seems  stupid  from  a fall  give 
him  salt  water  to  drink.  Use  a teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a pint  of  water. 

FIRE. — (See  “ Burns  and  Scalds.”)  If  }^our  clothing  is  on  fire  do  not 
run,  as  this  will  but  fan  the  fire.  Throw  a garment  such  as  a shawl,  rug,  over- 
coat or  piece  of  carpet  around  the  body  and  then  lie  down  and  roll.  This 
smothers  out  the  flames.  Always  keep  your  mouth  closed  or  you  will  be 
burned  internally.  Put  soda  and  sweet  oil,  linseed  oil  or  some  kind  of  grease 
on  the  wounds  until  care  can  be  given  tlicm. 

FITS,  FALLING  FITS  OR  EPILEPSY.— (For  symptoms  see  General 
Diseases.)  Bromide  of  potassium  is  the  remedy  to  be  used  and  should  be  con- 
tinued for  months  and  years  and  should  be  kept  up  for  three  years  after  the 
patient  is  seemingly  cured.  This  should  be  administered  under  the  super- 
vision of  a doctor. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Oxide  of  Zinc. — A physician  who  has  been  very  successful  in  cur- 
ing epilepsy  uses  oxide  of  zinc.  It  should  be  taken  three  times  a day.  The 
first  eight  days  the  dose  is  grain.  Then  take  1 grain  doses  for  the  next 
eight  clays.  Then  use  iVi  grains  till  cured.  The  dose  seldom  has  to  be  in- 
creased over  IFo  grains.  It  is  well  while  under  this  treatment  to  rub  the 
spine  twice  a day  with  stramonium  ointment. 

FRACTURES. — (See  chapter  on  “ Bandaging  ” which  follows.) 
FREEZING,  FROST  BITES.— 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Rubbing  with  Snow,  Witch  Hazel,  Etc. — If  one  has  been  frozen  keep 
him  away  from  the  fire  and  thaw  out  the  parts  slowly.  First  rub  them  with 
snow,  then  flannel  and  lastly  with  the  hands,  then  bathe  the  parts  frequently 
with  witch  hazel. 

2.  Alum  Water. — Immerse  the  frozen  parts  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
in  alum  water.  Use  from  one-fourth  to  one-half  pound  of  alum  to  a gallon 
of  water.  (See  “ Chilblains,”  under  “ Skin  Diseases.”) 


32 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


HEART  TROUBLES.— 

Palpitation. — If  a person  has  palpitation  after  too  hearty  eating  and 
the  stomach  stems  full,  it  is  difficult  to  breathe,  heart  goes  too  hard  and  fast 
and  the  patient  feels  almost  suffocated  but  has  no  valvular  heart  disease; 
give  a teaspoonful  of  soda  in  hot  water  or  peppermint  water  or  hot  whiskey 
or  brandy.  These  will  relieve  the  person  by  causing  the  gas  to  come  up. 
The  last  two  can  be  used  in  heart  trouble. 

Fast  Heart. — If  any  one  afflicted  with  heart  trouble  has  palpitation,  the 
heart  beats  fast,  full  and  hard  and  throbs  terribly  causing  hard  and  labored 
breathing  on  account  of  the  lungs  being  pumped  so  full  of  blood,  do  not  smell 
camphor,  ammonia  or  nitrite  of  amyl  because  they  would  make  the  heart 
beat  faster  still.  Such  patients  are  usually  sitting  or  lying  propped  up  in 
bed.  Give  tincture  of  digitalis,  five  drops  in  a little  water  in  a spoon.  Put 
this  carefully  and  slowly  into  the  mouth.  Give  another  dose  in  ten  minutes 
and  another  in  half  an  hour,  if  necessary,  then  every  three  to  four  hours  for 
twelve  hours. 

Weak  Heart. — If  there  is  a slow  heart  from  overdoing  or  in  asthma, 
grip,  etc.,  have  the  patient  inhale  nitrite  of  amyl,  camphor  or  ammonia  and 
give  whiskey  or  brandy  and  then  if  you  have  them  give  digitalis  or  strychnia. 
In  this  condition  the  patient  is  unable  to  sit  up ; perhaps  lies*  partly  uncon- 
scious; is  faint,  weak  and  collapsed;  perhaps  has  a cold  sweat  and  the  pulse, 
which  may  be  fast  or  slow,  is  weak  and  hardly  perceptible.  If  you  have 
nitrite  of  amyl  capsules  break  one  containing  three  to  five  minims  on  a cloth 
and  have  the  patient  inhale  it  for  a few  minutes.  Or  have  him  inhale  camphor 
or  ammonia.  At  the  same  time  give  whiskey  or  brandy  and  watch  the 
efifects.  Do  not  over-stimulate.  The  best,  surest  and  most  lasting  in  its 
effects  is  the  digitalis  or  strychnia.  If  the  strychnia  is  used  give  one  dose, 
1/60  of  a grain,  and  in  half  an  hour  give  another  dose  but  never  more 
than  two  doses.  This  can  be  given  at  the  same  time  with  the  whiskey, 
brandy  or  digitalis.  Digitalis,  with  or  without  one  dose  of  strychnia,  in 
such  a condition  and  from  the  causes  mentioned,  gives  the  best  and  most  per- 
manent relief.  Give  five  drops  at  a dose.  If  nothing  else  has  been  given  re- 
peat the  dose  in  ten  minutes.  If  something  else  like  the  above  or  strychnia 
has  been  given  do  not  repeat  the  dose  in  less  than  an  hour  and  stop  the  others. 
Repeat  again,  if  necessary,  in  an  hour  or  two.  (See  “ Diseases  of  the  Heart  ” 
in  regular  department.) 

HEAT  STROKE  OR  SUNSTROKE. — (For  symptoms,  etc.,  see  regular 
department.)  The  treatment  must  be  bold  and  vigorous.  If  the  temperature 
is  too  high  it  may  be  reduced  by  applying  ice  or  cold  water.  Strip  the  patient, 
lay  him  on  a canvas  cot  if  one  is  handy  and  then  direct  a stream  of  cold  water 
upon  his  body.  Rub  actively  and  vigorously  at  the  same  time.  This  brings 
the  blood  to  the  surface  and  relieves  the  internal  organs  and  the  head.  Rub 
thoroughly  and  at  the  same  time  constantly  apply  ice  or  cold  water  to 
the  head.  In  other  cpses  the  patient  mav  be  put  in  a tub  and  the  above  di- 
rections followed.  WheTT  the  temperature  falls  see  that  it  does  not  fall 
too  rapidly.  Bleed  the  patient  if  he  is  robust  and  there  is  evidence  of 
venous  engorgement  or  too  mueh  blood  in  the  veins.  Then  follow  with 
normal  salt  injection.  If  constipated  give  citrate  of  magnesia  in  4 dram 
doses.  If  the  patient  is  unconscious  give  a hypodermic  of  1/6  grain  of  elater- 
ium  for  the  bowels.  Give  strychnine  if  necessary  to  stimulate.  Give  no  al- 
cohol and  have  patient  remain  in  bed  several  days. 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


33 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Essence  of  Ginger. — Put  the  patient  in  a sitting  position  and  pour 
cold  water  freely  upon  the  head.  Into  half  a tumbler  of  water  pour  two 
or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  essence  of  ginger  and  have  the  patient  drink  it 
quickly, 

HEMORRHAGE.— (See  Bleeding.) 

HICCOUGH. — This  is  caused  by  a spasmodic  contraction  of  the  dia- 
phragm by  which  the  air  is  suddenly  drawn  in.  Give  a 1 dram  dose  of  tincture 
of  musk  or  give  ten  drops  of  chloroform  internally.  Another  remedy  is  com- 
posed of  spirits  of  camphor,  1 teaspoonful ; tincture  of  capsicum,  2 to  3 
drops ; oil  of  amber,  5 to  10  drops ; tincture  of  valerian,  1 teaspoonful.  The 
whole  is  to  be  taken  at  a dose  and  repeated  if  necessary. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Nitre. — Drink  from  3 to  5 grains  of  nitre  dissolved  in  half  a tumbler 
of  water. 

2.  Chewing. — Press  the  fingers  tightly  into  the  ears  and  chew  as  though 
you  were  eating  food.  This  is  an  old  and  tried  remedy. 

3.  Vinegar  and  Sugar. — Drink  several  swallows  of  well-sweetened  vine- 
gar or  eat  a lump  of  sugar  that  has  been  thoroughly  saturated  with  vinegar. 

4.  Lemon  Juice  and  Sugar. — Drink  freely  of  lemon  juice  mixed  with 
sugar. 

5.  Mustard,  Ginger  or  Soda. — Drink  frequently  of  hot  water  containing 
mustard,  ginger  or  soda. 

6.  Drinking  Through  Towel. — Put  a clean  towel  over  a glass  of  water 
and  drink  water  through  the  towel.  This  takes  the  mind  from  the  hic- 
coughing. 

7.  Drinking  Water. — Drink  nine  or  ten  small  swallows  of  water  with- 
out breathing. 

8.  Placing  Fingers  Together. — Without  leaning  on  anything,  see  how 
nearly  together  you  can  keep  the  ends  of  the  small  fingers,  being  very  careful 
never  to  allow  them  to  touch.  This  concentrates  the  mind  and  seldom  fails 
to  effect  a cure. 

9.  Swallowing. — Take  a drink  of  cold  water  or  eat  a piece  of  dry  bread 
or  something  to  cause  swallowing. 

10.  Baking  Soda. — Give  a half  teaspoonful  of  common  baking  soda  dis- 
solved in  a little  water. 

11.  Startling. — Scare  or  surprise  a person  with  hiccoughs.  Speaking 
suddenly  to  them  often  startles  them  and  cures  the  hiccoughs.  Do  not 
adopt  this  method  with  a person  who  has  heart  trouble. 

Physician’s  Remark. — A number  of  the  above  remedies  perhaps  have 
no  real  medical  value  but  they  concentrate  the  mind  of  the  patient  upon 
something  besides  the  hiccough  and  thus  effect  a cure. 

HYDROPHOBIA. — (See  this  subject  under  Infectious  Diseases.) 

NOSE,  BLEEDING  FROM. — (Epistaxis.)  Usually,  bleeding  from  the 
nose  will  stop  itself.  Hold  the  arms  above  the  head.  Apply  ice  or  cold  water 
to  the  nose  and  to  the  back  of  the  neck.  Inject  either  hot  or  cold  water 
into  the  nostrils.  Either  alum  or  tannic  acid  is  good  when  dissolved  in 
water  or  snuffed  up  the  nostrils  or  applied  with  a cloth.  Hold  the  nostril 
shut  with  the  finger  and  apply  something  cold  to  the  head  and  neck.  Snuff 
salt  water.  If  the  bleeding  continues  the  doctor  will  ping  the  opening  be- 
8 


34 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


tween  the  nose  and  the  throat  or  will  plug  the  nostrils  with  cotton  saturated 
with  a solution  of  adrenalin,  1 part  to  2000  of  water,  or  with  a strong  solu- 
tion of  cranesbill. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Pressing  on  Lip. — Press  hard  on  the  upper  lip  near  the  nose  or 
press  hard  on  the  under  part  of  jaw  near  the  angle  of  the  jaw  bone. 

Physician’s  Remark. — There  is  a large  artery  in  the  upper  lip  near  the 
nose  and  another  runs  up  over  the  jaw  bone  near  the  angle.  Pressure  on 
these  parts  checks  the  bleeding  from  the  nose  by  shutting  off  the  supply  of 
blood. 

2.  Pressing  on  Nose. — Nose  bleed  can  sometimes  be  stopped  by  pressure 
on  the  upper  part  of  the  nose  as  this  closes  some  of  the  blood  vessels. 

3.  Dried  Beef. — Insert  grated  dried  beef  up  the  nostrils. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  not  only  acts  as  a plug  but  the  salt  in  the 

dried  beef  aids  in  contracting  the  blood  vessels. 

4.  Cold  Packs. — Apply  cold  packs  to  the  nose,  forehead  and  to  the  back 
part  of  the  head  and  neck. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Cold  contracts  the  blood  vessels  in  this  region 
and  lessens  the  flow  of  blood  to  these  parts. 

5.  Raising  Hands. — Hold  the  hands  above  the  head. 

6.  Alum  or  Salt  Water. — Saturate  some  lint  or  cotton  in  alum  or  salt 
water  and  insert  up  the  nostrils  as  far  as  possible  or  snuff  up  some  powdered 
alum. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Salt  and  alum  are  astringents  and  help  close  the 
blood  vessels. 

7.  Witch  Hazel. — Witch  hazel  bark  inserted  in  the  nostrils  will  stop 
bleeding. 

8.  Powdered  Borax. — Snuff  some  powdered  borax  up  the  nose  and  at 
the  same  time  pour  cold  water  over  the  wrists  and  back  of  the  neck. 

9.  Nettle  Juice. — Juice  from  the  common  nettle  has  stopped  nose  bleed 
when  everything  else  failed.  Wet  some  lint  in  the  juice  and  put  up  the 
nostril. 

10.  Ice  Water  or  Vinegar. — Snuff  either  ice  water  or  vinegar.  Apply  ice 
or  cold  water  to  the  back  of  the  neck  or  bridge  of  the  nose. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  cold  contracts  the  blood  vessels  and  less 
blood  is  carried  to  these  parts.  Vinegar  also  contracts  the  blood  vessels 
by  its  astringent  or  binding  action  and  lessens  the  flow  of  blood,  allowing  it  to 
clot  by  becoming  coagulated  or  thickened. 

11.  Closing  Nostril. — Press  the  nostril  shut  for  several  minutes  and 
allow  the  blood  to  clot. 

12.  Fat  Bacon. — Insert  in  the  nostril  a narrow  strip  of  salty  fat  bacon 
about  three  inches  long.  Also  hold  ice  in  the  mouth. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  salt  is  astringent  and  aids  in  closing  the  blood 
vessels.  The  ice  contracts  the  blood  vessels  in  this  region. 

13.  Holding  Nose. — Hold  the  nose  between  the  thumb  and  finger  until 
the  blood  clots  then  expel  the  breath  easily  through  the  nose. 

14.  Paper. — Chew  some  paper  to  a wad  and  press  it  firmly  under  the 
upper  lip  or  use  the  index  finger  instead. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  presses  on  the  artery  in  the  upper  lip  and 
lessens  the  flow  of  blood. 

NOSE,  THINGS  IN. — If  a bean,  grain  of  corn  or  wheat  or  any  other  for- 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


35 


«ign  body  gets  into  the  nostril  take  a crochet  hook  and  gently  run  it  back  be- 
hind the  object  and  slowly  and  carefully  draw  it  out.  • A hair  pin  properly  bent 
may  be  used  if  preferred.  Some  times  the  object  may  be  expelled  by  blow- 
ing the  nose.  Do  everything  gently.  Seat  the  patient  in  a good  light,  open 
wide  the  nostril  and  put  your  instrument  in  or  behind  the  object  and  draw 
forward.  Do  not  be  alarmed  for  if  you  cannot  get  it  out  any  doctor  can  do 
so  and  in  the  meantime  there  is  no  danger. 

POISONING. — (See  chapter  on  “ Poisons.”) 

SORES. — Apply  camphor  and  cream  either  alone  or  together.  White 
vaseline  is  good.  For  old  and  foul  smelling  sores  apply  finely  powdered  char- 
coal. Charcoal  is  a disinfectant.  A good  wash  is  made  by  putting  a teaspoon- 
ful (60  grains)  of  potassium  permanganate  into  a pint  of  water.  Zinc  oxide 
ointment  is  another  good  application.  For  freely  running  sores  use  powdered 
v/hite  oak  bark  as  a poultice. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Hot  Water. — Dip  pieces  of  cotton  into  very  hot  water  and  apply  to 
old  sores.  This  is  an  effective  remedy  used  in  many  hospitals. 

2.  Scraped  Potato  and  Charcoal. — For  old  ill-conditioned  sores  apply 
equal  parts  of  scraped  raw  potato  and  powdered  charcoal.  This  is  a very 
fine  application  for  sores  of  this  kind. 

SPASMS.— (See  “ Convulsions.”) 

SPRAINS  OR  STRAINS,  SPRAINED  BACK,  ETC.— Apply  cloths 
wrung  out  of  hot  salt  water  or  use  wormwood  or  smartweed  tea  either  with  or 
without  arnica.  Soap  liniment,  a soap  plaster  or  soft  soap  are  good  applica- 
tions. Apply  opodildoc  liniment.  Canada  pitch  plaster  is  another  good  rem- 
edy. Later  paint  the  parts  over  with  balsam  of  fir  and  bind  with  eel  skin. 
Turpentine  liniment  is  excellent  but  you  must  not  use  it  too  long  for  it  is  hard 
on  the  kidneys.  See  some  of  the  good  liniments  given  in  another  part. 

For  a sprained  ankle  or  arm  bathe  for  a long  time  with  either  cold  or 
hot  water  as  it  feels  best.  Between  the  bathings  dress  the  parts  with  lead 
water  and  laudanum,  using  16  parts  of  water,  4 parts  of  undiluted  lead  water 
and  1 part  of  laudanum;  then  rub  v/ith  ichthyol  ointment  or  camphor  lini- 
ment and  laudanum. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Egg,  Salt  and  Honey. — Take  the  white  of  an  egg,  a large  spoonful 
of  salt  and  the  same  amount  of  honey ; beat  them  together  continually  for 
two  hours;  let  stand  an  hour  and  then  anoint  the  sprained  parts  with  the  oil 
which  comes  from  the  mixture.  A man  from  IMontana  writes  that  he  had 
a very  badly  sprained  ankle  but  within  twenty-four  hours  after  using  this 
application  he  walked  without  the  least  sign  of  pain. 

2.  Clay  and  Vinegar. — In  case  of  a sprain  or  bruise  make  a paste  of 
one  part  of  blue  clay  and  two  parts  of  vinegar  and  bind  on  with  a wet  towel 
at  night. 

3.  Rosin  and  Butter. — Make  a paste  with  some  powdered  rosin  and 
fresh  butter  and  bind  on  the  parts. 

4.  Hot  Water. — Pour  hot  water  from  a height  of  three  feet  upon  the 
sprained  parts.  A man  writes  that  a strained  ankle  was  cured  by  continuing 
this  treatment  for  an  hour. 

5.  Alum  and  Egg. — Powder  a piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a hickory  nut 


36 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


and  stir  into  the  white  of  an  egg  until  it  forms  a curd.  Wet  a piece  of  cloth 
in  this  and  apply  to  the  sprained  parts. 

SUNSTROKE.— (See  “ Heat  Stroke.”) 

SMOTHERING.— (See  Asphyxia.”) 

STINGS.— (See  “ Bites  and  Stings.”) 

SHOCK.— (See  “ Apoplexy.”) 

WOUNDS. — (Also  see  Bleeding.”) — Use  hot,  clean,  boiled  water  to 

thoroughly  cleanse  the  wound.  If  any  large  blood  vessels  are  torn  they  must 
be  tied  with  something  until  the  doctor  comes.  One  can  generally  stop 
bleeding  by  the  application  of  very  hot  or  cold  water  or  by  twisting  the  blood 
vessels  or  by  tying  something  tight  about  the  limb.  Wash  the  wound  clean 
from  dirt  and  all  other  foreign  matter  then  dress  it  with  gauze  or  linen.  An 
antiseptic  like  listerine  or  glycothymoline  should  be  used  if  possible  to 
thoroughly  cleanse  the  wound  and  some  of  it  should  be  put  upon  the  dressing. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  White  Oah  Bark  Tea. — Cleanse  the  wound  thoroughly  with  a tea 
made  from  white  oak  bark. 

2.  Salt  Water. — Bathe  the  wound  with  weak  salt  water  made  with 
boiled  water. 

3.  Peach  Leaves. — Peach  leaves  pounded  to  a pulp  and  applied  to  a 
bruise  or  wound  from  a rusty  nail  will  give  immediate  relief. 


BANDAGING. 

For  Fractures,  Broken  Bones,  Dislocations,  etc. 

Splints. — These  may  be  made  of  pasteboard,  shingles  or  light  boards. 
They  are  used  to  help  hold  the  parts  in  place  and  the  bandages  are  wrapped 
about  them. 

Padding. — Cotton  batting,  soft  linen  or  anything  clean  and  soft  may  be 
used.  Some  places,  like  hollows  and  where  there  is  likely  to  be  pressure, 
must  be  padded  more  than  others  but  the  padding  must  be  done  evenly. 

Bandages. — Bandages  may  be  bought  or  made  from  old  sheets.  They 
should  be  from  3 to  10  yards  long  and  from  1 to  5 inches  wide.  For  fingers 
and  toes  they  should  be  an  inch  wide;  for  jaw,  4 inches;  for  head,  2 inches: 
for  collar  bone,  leg  or  arm,  from  2 to  2V2  inches.  Wrap  them  tightly  in  a 
roll  and  keep  for  emergencies.  Bandages  and  padding  should  be  perfectly 
clean. 

General  Instructions  as  to  Bandaging. — After  the  broken  parts  have  been 
replaced  the  intent  of  bandaging  is  to  keep  the  parts  in  place  so  as  to  give 
nature  a chance  to  form  new  bone  tissue  and  re-unite  the  bone.  For  this 
purpose,  splints,  padding  and  bandages  are  used.  Bind  tight  enough  to  keep 
the  bones  in  place  but  not  so  tight  as  to  shut  off  the  circulation  or  you  may 
produce  gangrene.  Use  enough  padding  to  relieve  the  pressure  from  the 
splints.  The  parts  should  be  padded  so  as  to  make  them  even.  The  result 
will  not  depend  entirely  upon  the  setting  of  the  bone.  The  patient  must  do 
nothing  either  by  working  or  moving  that  will  displace  the  bone.  A great 
many  people  are  left  deformed  because  fractures  have  been  improperly  set. 


HOSPITAL  METHODS  OF  BANDAGING. 
(See  Chapter  on  ‘‘  Bandaging.”) 


ibrary  Champaign-Urbana 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


37 


Very  few  laymen  can  set  them  properly.  Never  set  a bone  permanently  unless 
it  is  impossible  to  get  a physician.  We  will  give  both  temporary  and  perma- 
nent treatment.  If,  after  setting  the  bone,  the  part  swells  much  and  the 
patient  complains  of  much  pain,  especially  in  a simple  fracture,  partly  take 
off  the  bandage  until  the  patient  feels  easier  and  then  apply  again.  For  in- 
stance, if  the  patient  has  a broken  elbow  and  wrist,  when  you  loosen  the 
bandage  have  one  person  hold  the  hand  and  another  the  elbow  to  keep  the 
parts  in  place. 

Do  not  bandage  too  tightly.  You  rnust  allow  for  swelling.  A common 
simple  break  should  not  pain  much  after  it  has  been  dressed  half  an  hour. 
Put  the  bandage  on  just  tight  enough  to  keep  the  parts  from  slipping. 

Wounds. — If  the  bone  comes  through  the  flesh,  the  flesh  and  bone  must 
be  thoroughly  cleansed  and  the  part  must  be  bandaged  so  that  you  can  get 
at  it  easily  afterwards  to  dress  it.  You  can  miss  the  wound  with  the  bandage 
and  cover  with  gauze  or  linen  that  can  be  removed.  Never  put  the  splint 
on  the  wound.  If  the  bone  is  badly  crushed  it  must  not  be  put  in  a splint. 
Place  it  in  a comfortable  position  and  treat  for  a time  like  you  would  treat 
a wound. 

Fractures. — A fracture  is  a breaking  of  the  bone  either  partly  or  entirely 
in  two.  In  children  whose  bones  are  soft  we  sometimes  find  the  bones  bent 
instead  of  broken.  This  is  called  “ green  stick  fracture.”  Put  on  pasteboard 
or  light  shingle  splints,  pad  well  with  cotton  and  bandage.  By  gradually 
tightening  the  bandages  you  can  straighten  the  bone. 

Fractures  are  simple,  compound,  comminuted  and  impacted.  Simple  frac- 
ture means  that  the  bone  is  broken  partly  or  entirely  off  with  no  tearing  of 
the  flesh.  A compound  fracture  is  where  the  bone  is  broken  and  sticks 
through  the  flesh.  A comminuted  fracture  is  where  the  bone  is  broken  into 
pieces  or  crushed.  An  impacted  fracture  is  where  one  end  of  the  bone  is 
driven  into  the  other.  This  often  happens  where  there  is  a fracture  of  the 
hip  or  neck  of  the  thigh  bone.  For  practical  purposes  these  are  all  the  kinds 
of  fractures  it  is  necessary  to  mention. 

Fracture  of  the  Arm  Bone  (Humerus)  Between  the  Elbow  and  Shoulder. 
— While  one  holds  the  shoulder  another  holds  the  elbow  and  pulls  on  it  to 
get  the  bone  into  place.  When  in  place  the  arm  will  feel  even  with  no  de- 
formity and  there  will  be  very  little  pain.  With  cotton  batting  pad  the  arm 
from  the  elbow  to  the  shoulder.  Do  this  evenly  and  thoroughly,  having  the 
cotton  about  an  inch  thick.  To  the  back  side  of  the  arm  apply  a strip  of 
thick  pasteboard  and  allow  it  to  extend  a little  below  the  elbow.  In  front 
apply  another  piece  beginning  a little  above  the  elbow,  to  allow  movement, 
and  extending  to  the  shoulder.  The  two  pieces  of  pasteboard  should  be  wide 
enough  to  meet  on  the  sides  of  the  arm.  Take  a bandage  five  yards  long 
and  two  and  a half  inches  wide  and  begin  at  the  elbow  and  wrap  upward 
allowing  the  bandage  to  lap  from  V2  to  % of  an  inch  each  time.  When  you 
bring  the  bandage  in  front,  and  again  when  you  bring  it  behind  the  arm  twist  or 
turn  it  inside  out  so  that  it  will  neither  slip  up  nor  down.  Do  this  each  time  you 
bring  the  bandage  in  front  and  behind  the  arm.  Wrap  comfortably  tight  but 
not  too  tight.  It  should  be  loose  enough  so  that  the  patient  can  move  the 
arm  with  little  pain  by  taking  hold  of  the  forearm  with  the  other  hand.  While 
the  bandage  is  being  put  on,  the  shoulder,  elbow  and  hand  must  be  held  by 
two  or  three  parties.  After  the  arm  is  bandaged  the  bandage  at  both  ends 
may  be  cut  lengthwise  far  enough  to  permit  tying. 


38 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Fracture  of  Bones  of  Forearm. — As  to  the  use  of  splints  use  the  same 
method  as  for  the  bone  from  the  elbow  to  the  shoulder  for  temporary  use. 
If  the  bones  are  broken  near  the  wrist  it  is  called  “ codes  fracture.”  This 
kind  of  a fracture  is  very  hard  to  treat  for  there  is  likely  to  be  a dislocation 
of  the  outer  bone  at  the  wrist.  One  person  should  take  hold  of  the  elbow 
while  another  pulls  at  the  hand  until  the  bones  slip  into  place.  Then  a third 
person  pads  the  arm  Avell  with  cotton  while  the  two  are  still  pulling.  Put  on 
pasteboard  or  light  shingle  splints.  The  lower  one  should  extend  from  the 
elbow  to  beyond  the  ends  of  the  fingers  and  should  be  well  padded.  The 
upper  one  should  extend  from  below  the  elbow  to  the  back  of  the  hand  and 
should  also  be  well  padded.  Then  when  placed  in  position  and  held  by  other 
yarties,  bandage  from  the  hand  to  the  elbow  just  tight  enough  to  hold  the 
splints  in  place.  Bandage  the  same  as  directed  for  the  fracture  of  the  arm 
above  the  elbow.  The  arm  swells  rapidly  and  if  it  pains  much  or  the  fingers 
become  numb  and  blue  it  is  generally  because  the  bandage  is  too  tight. 
Loosen  the  bandage  a little  and  this  will  ease  the  patient  until  you  can  get 
proper  help. 

Fracture  of  the  Collar  Bone.  (Clavicle.) — When  the  collar  bone  is  broken 
there  is  pain  at  the  injured  place  or  shoulder,  the  shoulder  hangs  down  and 
the  patient  leans  to  the  injured  side.  For  temporary  treatment  put  a pad 
under  the  injured  arm  and  put  the  hand  and  arm  to  the  elbow  in  a sling  tied 
about  the  neck.  If  you  are  where  you  cannot  get  a sling  hold  the  injured 
arm  and  shoulder  up  and  back  until  a sling  is  obtained  or  go  to  bed  and 
arrange  the  shoulder  and  arm  in  a comfortable  position  until  help  can  be 
obtained.  For  permanent  treatment  replace  the  parts  by  lifting  the  shoulder 
upward,  backward  and  outward.  Do  this  after  you  have  your  bandage  and 
pads  ready.  The  collar  bone  will  look  and  feel  even  when  in  place. 

Velpeau  Method  of  Bandaging. — We  will  first  give  the  Velpeau  method 
of  bandaging.  Place  the  palm  of  the  hand  of  the  injured  arm  on  the  opposite 
shoulder  with  the  forearm  lying  across  the  chest.  Place  padding  between 
the  chest  and  arm  and  hand  and  also  in  the  arm  pit  on  the  injured  side.  This 
is  to  prevent  chafing.  Use  a bandage  ten  yards  long  and  2%  inches  wide. 
Place  the  end  of  the  bandage  in  the  arm  pit  of  the  sound  arm ; pass  it  up  across 
the  back  over  the  shoulder  and  broken  collar  bone,  down  the  front  of  the 
arm  on  the  injured  side  then  across  the  arm  and  under  the  outside  of  the 
elbow ; then  pass  it  up  across  the  chest  to  the  place  of  beginning  under 
the  sound  arm.  Repeat  the  same  way  but  when  you  get  to  the  sound  arm  pit 
the  second  time  pass  the  bandage  across  the  back,  but  instead  of  going  over  the 
shoulder  as  before,  pass  it  around  the  injured  arm  at  the  elbow  and  then 
across  the  chest  to  the  sound  arm  pit  again.  Then  go  across  the  back  and 
up  ove.  the  shoulder  and  broken  collar  bone  as  the  first  two  times  and  when 
you  get  to  the  sound  arm  pit  go  around  the  body  as  the  third  time,  lapping 
from  one  half  to  one  inch ; then  alternate  each  time  you  pass  it  around  the 
body  until  you  have  used  all  the  bandage.  Use  safety  pins  where  necessary. 

Desault  Method  of  Bandaeing. — In  using  the  Desault  method  you  use 
the  same  kind  of  bandage.  Place  the  arm  in  the  same  position  as  when 
bandaging  by  the  Velpeau  method  and  pad  in  the  same  way.  Start  from  the 
arm  pit  on  the  sound  side ; pass  the  bandage  across  the  chest  and  up  over 
the  injured  collar  bone  and  shoulder  and  down  the  back  of  the  arm  to  the 
elbow ; then  pass  it  across  the  arm  and  chest  to  the  point  of  beginning 
under  the  arm  on  the  sound  side;  then  across  the  back  and  up  over  tlie 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


39 


shoulder  and  injured  collar  bone  and  down  the  front  of  the  bent  arm  to  the 
elbow ; and  from  this  point  across  the  back  to  the  point  of  beginning.  Repeat 
these  operations,  alternating  each  time,  until  the  bandage  is  all  used.  Pin 
the  bandage  where  necessary  and  place  the  hand  in  a sling. 

Fracture  of  the  Hip. — Place  the  patient  in  bed  and  put  bags  of  salt,  sand 
or  bran  both  on  the  inner  and  outer  side  of  the  thigh,  knee  and  ankle  and 
keep  there  until  a doctor  arrives.  The  leg  may  be  short  and  turn  either  in 
or  out  and  the  bags  will  help  keep  it  in  place  and  ease  the  pain.  If  a doctor 
cannot  be  obtained,  pad  the  leg*  well  from  the  hip  to  the  foot  and  bind  on 
with  strings  or  strips  of  cloth.  Turn  the  foot  out  as  it  naturally  belongs  then 
take  a bed  slat  or  strip  of  board  and  put  on  the  outer  side  of  the  leg.  Pad 
the  leg  well  where  it  touches  this  splint.  The  slat  should  extend  from  the 
waist  to  one  or  two  inches  below  the  foot  and  there  should  be  a notch  cut 
in  the  upper  end  to  keep  the  bandage  from  slipping  off.  Wrap  pieces  of 
bandage  about  the  limb  and  slat  just  above  the  ankle  and  the  knee  and  tie 
there.  Also  bandage  the  upper  end  of  the  splint  well  around  the  body.  The 
splint  will  now  stay  in  place.  Take  a bandage  2 or  3 inches  wide  and  begin 
to  bandage  at  the  ankle  and  proceed  as  directed  in  bandaging  the  arm  above 
the  elbow  giving  the  bandage  a twist  or  turning  it  inside  out  occasionally 
both  behind  and  in  front  to  prevent  its  slipping.  Bandage  the  entire  length 
of  the  limb  then  put  a weight  of  from  five  to  ten  pounds  on  the  lower  part 
of  the  leg  so  as  to  prevent  shortening.  Fasten  a rope  to  the  lower  part  of 
the  leg  by  bandaging  or  by  use  of  adhesive  plaster.  Let  the  rope  run  through 
a pulley  fastened  to  the  foot  of  the  bed  and  then  tie  the  rope  to  the  weight. 

Fracture  of  the  Thigh  Bone. — Be  sure  the  parts  are  put  in  place  and  then 
bandage  the  same  as  for  a fractured  hip.  You  must  also  use  the  weight  and 
even  then  the  limb  is  likely  to  shorten  from  half  an  inch  to  two  inches. 

The  temporary  treatment,  of  course,  is  to  put  the  patient  to  bed  and 
place  the  leg  in  a comfortable  position.  If  the  patient  must  be  moved,  place 
him  in  a wagon  and  let  him  lie  down  on  something  soft.  Get  two  shingles 
or  boards,  pad  the  leg  well  and  place  one  splint  on  the  inner  and  the  other 
on  the  outer  side  of  the  thigh  or  whole  leg  and  then  bandage  from  below 
upward.  This  will  also  do  for  fracture  of  either  one  or  both  bones  of  the 
leg  from  the  knee  to  the  foot. 

Fracture  of  the  Ribs. — Apply  adhesive  plaster  from  the  backbone  to  the 
breastbone.  Apply  the  plaster  wide  enough  to  extend  two  inches  above  and 
two  inches  below  the  fracture.  First  measure  the  length  from  the  backbone 
to  the  breastbone.  Cut  enough  pieces  of  plaster  to  make  the  right  length  and 
width.  Then  place  one  length  on  the  table  and  apply  another  over  the  side 
of  the  first  one,  lapping  from  to  V2  an  inch,  and  so  continue  until  you  have 
the  band  wide  enough.  It  is  best  to  shave  off  all  the  hair  where  the  plaster 
is  applied.  While  the  patient  stands  up  with  his  arms  down  and  gets  all 
the  breath  out  of  his  lungs,  place  one  end  of  the  bandage  on  the  backbone, 
then  go  forward  quickly  across  the  chest  to  the  breastbone  with  the  plaster 
drawn  tight  and  even.  Place  a strip  at  each  end  of  the  band  to  prevent 
its  slipping.  This  band,  if  properly  applied,  will  ease  the  pain  and  should 
be  worn  for  at  least  four  weeks. 

Fracture  of  the  Lower  Jaw. — Use  the  four-tailed  bandage  which  is  made 
Dy  taking  a piece  of  muslin  a yard  long  and  four  inches  wide  and  cutting  it 
through  the  middle  from  both  ends  to  within  5 or  6 inches  of  the  center. 
After  the  broken  jaw  is  in  position  put  the  uncut  part  of  the  bandage  under 


40 


PEOPLE^S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


the  chin  so  as  to  cover  it.  Take  hold  of  the  two  upper  pieces  and  tie  comfort- 
ably tight  at  the  back  of  the  neck.  Turn  the  two  lower  pieces  up  along  the 
face  in  front  of  the  ears  and  tie  tightly  on  the  top  of  the  head.  Then  tie  the 
ends  on  the  nape  of  the  neck  and  the  top  of  the  head  together.  Keep  the 
bandage  on  for  a week  and  for  nourishment  take  milk  through  a tube  or 
straw.  Remain  quiet  and  do  not  talk. 

Another  way  to  bandage  a fractured  jaw  is  by  the  use  of  a bandage  2i/o 
inches  wide  and  5 yards  long.  Start  at  the  base  of  the  skull  and  go  up  around 
the  head  on  the  right  side  to  the  top  of  the  head,  down  in  front  of  the  left  ear, 
through  under  the  chin,  up  the  right  side  of  the  face  in  front  of  the  ear  and  over 
the  head  to  the  starting  point  and  fasten  with  a small  safety  pin.  Then  go  on 
around  the  right  side  of  the  neck,  under  the  right  ear  to  the  jaw  and  chin, 
over  the  front  of  the  chin  and  back  under  the  left  ear  to  the  starting  place 
and  again  use  a small  safety  pin.  Make  the  first  round  again  and  then  the 
second,  alternating  until  the  bandage  is  all  used.  Always  pin  behind  and 
when  you  are  through  pin  on  the  top  of  the  head. 

Fracture  of  the  Fingers. — Use  a rolled  bandage  of  suitable  size  and  close 
the  fingers  over  it  and  then  bind  them  with  strips  of  adhesive  plaster  run- 
ning across  the  fingers  or  you  can  use  a rolled  bandage  to  bind  about  the 
fingers  and  hand.  Another  way  is  to  put  a well  padded  splint  in  the  palm 
allowing  it  to  extend  beyond  the  ends  of  the  fingers.  Bind  the  fingers  over 
this  splint  just  tight  enough  to  hold  them  to  it.  Do  not  bandage  too  tightly. 

Fracture  of  the  Nose. — Yoii  can  tell  the  nose  is  broken  by  the  deformity 
and  by  feeling  of  it.  Mold  the  parts  into  place  with  your  fingers  and  fasten 
with  adhesive  plaster.  If  you  are  careful  you  can  pad  a goose  quill  at  the 
end,  insert  it  into  the  nostril,  mold  the  break  into  place  over  the  quill,  apply 
the  adhesive  plaster  and  then  remove  the  quill.  The  nose  mends  quickly  so 
it  had  better  be  attended  to  as  soon  as  possible  after  breaking  or  you  may 
have  a crooked  nose.  It  is  generally  safe  to  put  the  parts  into  place  with 
the  fingers  and  put  adhesive  plaster  over  the  break  to  keep  it  in  place.  Unless 
the  skin  is  broken  you  need  no  other  dressing.  The  broken  nose  usually  re- 
tains its  position  well  after  being  set  and  adhesive  plaster  applied. 

Dislocation  of  the  Shoulder. — When  dislocated  the  shoulder  is  deformed 
and  the  outside  looks  hollow.  Grasp  the  arm  below  the  elbow  with  one 
hand  and  gently  carry  it  well  out  from  the  side.  Place  the  other  hand  on 
the  shoulder  and  press  with  the  thumb  upon  the  head  of  the  dislocated  bone 
which  has  usually  slipped  into  the  arm  pit.  Next,  firmly  extend  the  arm  and 
at  the  same  time  make  it  describe  a half  circle  towards  the  breastbone  and 
while  doing  this  press  the  head  of  the  dislocated  bone  toward  the  socket. 
Then  bring  the  arm  to  the  side.  Do  not  use  much  force.  Sometimes  you 
will  need  to  give  something  to  put  the  patient  to  sleep. 

Dislocation  of  the  Jaw. — Put  something  such  as  corks  far  back  between 
the  teeth  on  both  sides  of  the  jaw.  Place  your  thumbs  on  the  teeth  of  each 
side  with  your  fingers  under  the  jaw.  Press  downward  and  backward  and 
with  your  fingers  lift  up  on  the  chin.  Instead  of  using  corks  you  can  wrap 
your  thumbs  thickly  with  a towel  to  protect  them  from  being  bitten  when  the 
jaws  snap  together.  Press  the  thumbs  hard  on  the  back  teeth  and  lift  the 
chin  up  at  the  same  time. 

Dislocation  of  the  Fingers  and  Toes. — If  dislocated,  grasp  the  fingers  or 
toes  in  front  with  one  hand  and  pull  forward  and  downward  while  at  the  same 
time  pressing  upon  the  dislocated  part  with  the  other  hand.  If  it  is  a back- 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


41 


ward  dislocation,  pull  forward  and  upward  with  one  hand  while  pressing 
upon  the  dislocated  part  with  the  other. 


FOODS  FOR  THE  SICK  AND  HOW  TO  PREPARE  THEM. 

“ Dishes  for  invalids  should  be  served  in  your  daintiest  china  and  only  a 
small  quantity  should  be  served  at  a time.” 

Beef  Tea  by  the  Cold  Process. — Take  a pound  of  finely  chopped  round 
steak,  a coffee  cup  full  of  cold  water  and  a pinch  of  salt.  Place  in  a covered 
jar  and  set  in  a cold  place  for  5 or  6 hours  or  over  night.  It  is  well  to  shake 
occasionally.  Strain  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice  by  placing  the  meat  in  a 
coarse  muslin  cloth  and  twisting  very  hard.^  This  beef  juice  is  very  nutri- 
tious and  better  than  the  extracts  of  beef  which  are  sold  in  the  stores. 

Beef  Juice  from  Broiled  Steak. — Take  a pound  of  round  steak  with  no  fat 
on  it,  cut  thick,  broil  slightly  and  press  the  juice  out  with  a lemon  squeezer 
or  a meat  press.  You  generally  get  from  two  to  four  ounces  of  juice  from 
a pound  of  beef.  This,  seasoned  with  s,alt,  may  be  given  cold  or  it  may  be 
warmed  by  placing  the  cup  which  holds  it  into  warm  water.  It  should  not 
be  heated  enough  to  coagulate  the  albumen  which  is  in  solution  and  which 
then  appears  as  flakes  of  meat  floating  in  the  fluid. 

Mutton  Broth. — Take  a pound  of  finely  chopped  lean  mutton,  including 
some  of  the  bone,  one  pint  of  water  and  a pinch  of  salt.  Cook  for  three  hours 
over  a slow  fire  adding  water  if  necessary  to  make  half  a pint;  then  strain 
through  a muslin  cloth.  When  cold,  carefully  remove  the  fat  adding  more 
salt  if  necessary.  A very  nutritious  and  delicious  broth  is  made  from  this 
by  adding  corn  starch  or  arrowroot,  cooking  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  add- 
ing three  ounces  of  milk  or  1%  ounces  of  cream  to  each  half  pint  of  broth. 

Chicken,  Veal  and  Beef  Broths. — These  are  made  in  the  same  manner  as 
mutton  broth  and  used  in  the  same  way. 

Meat  Pulp. — A rare  piece  of  round  or  sirloin  steak,  the  outer  part  having 
been  cut  away,  is  scraped  or  shredded  with  a knife  and  is  then  well  salted. 
From  a teaspoonful  to  a tablespoonful  may  be  given  to  a child  18  months  old. 

Junkets  or  Curds  and  Whey. — Take  a pint  of  fresh  cow’s  milk,  warmed, 
a pinch  of  salt  and  a teaspoonful  of  granulated  sugar;  add  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  essence  of  pepsin,  or  liquid  rennet,  or  one  junket  tablet  dissolved  in  water; 
stir  for  a moment  and  then  allow  it  to  stand  at  the  temperature  of  the  room 
for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  firmly  coagulated;  set  in  the  ice  box  or  a cool 
place  until  thoroughly  cold.  For  older  children  this  may  be  seasoned  with 
grated  nutmeg. 

Whey. — The  coagulated  milk,  prepared  as  above,  is  broken  up  with  a fork 
and  the  whey  strained  off  through  muslin.  It  is  best  given  cold.  If  some 
stimulant  is  desired,  sherry  wine  in  the  proportion  of  one  part  to  twelve,  or 
brandy  one  part  to  twenty-four,  may  be  added.  This  whey  is  useful  in  many 
cases  of  indigestion. 

Barley  Jelly  from  the  Grains. — Take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley, 
soak  over  night  and  then  place  this  in  one  quart  of  fresh  water;  add  a pinch 
of  salt  and  boil  in  a double  boiler  steadily  for  four  hours  or  down  to  one 
pint,  adding  water  from  time  to  time ; strain  through  muslin.  When  cold  this 


42 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


makes  a rather  thick  jelly.  If  a thinner  gruel  or  barley  water  is  wanted  one 
half  the  quantity  of  barley  should  be  used. 

Oat,  Wheat  or  Rice  Jelly. — These  are  prepared  from  oatmeal,  wheaten 
grits  or  rice  grains  in  the  same  manner  as  the  barley  jelly. 

Barley  Jelly  from  the  Flour. — Either  Robinson’s  patent  barley  or  pre- 
pared barley  flour  of  the  Health  Food  Company  may  be  used.  One  rounded 
tablespoonful  of  the  flour,  thoroughly  blended  with  a little  cold  water,  is 
added,  while  stirring,  to  one  pint  of  boiling  water  containing  a pinch  of  salt. 
Cook  for  twenty  minutes  in  a double  boiler  and  strain.  This  makes  a jelly 
of  about  the  consistency  of  that  above  which  is  made  from  the  grains.  A 
thinner  gruel  or  barley  water  is  made  by  using  half  the  quantity  of  flour.  It 
is  much  less  trouble  to  prepare  this  and  it  is  essentially  the  same  as  that 
above.  When  this  is  to  be  mixed  with  milk  it  is  well  to  add  the  milk  to 
the  barley  gruel  before  removing  from  the  fire  and  stir  two  or  three  minutes 
or  until  the  milk  has  nearly  reached  the  boiling  point.  It  should  then  be 
removed  and  bottled. 

Oat  or  Wheat  Jelly  from  the  Flour. — These  are  made  from  the  prepared 
oat  flour  of  the  Health  Food  Company  or  Hubbell’s  prepared  wheat  flour. 
They  are  made  and  used  like  barley. 

Imperial  Granum. — This  is  prepared  and  used  in  precisely  the  same  way 
as  the  barley  flour  above;  the  gruel  being  mixed  with  milk  before  it  is  re- 
moved from  the  fire. 

Albumen  Water. — Put  the  white  of  one  egg  into  half  a glass  of  water; 
stir  slowly  for  about  five  minutes  without  getting  it  frothy  and  strain  through 
cheese  cloth.  If  necessary,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  suit  the  child.  Another 
way  is  to  take  the  white  of  one  fresh  egg,  one  half  pint  of  cold  water,  a pinch 
of  salt  and  a teaspoonful  of  brandy.  Shake  thoroughly  and  feed  cold  either 
with  a spoon  or  from  a bottle.  This  is  useful  in  cases  of  vomiting  and  can 
sometimes  be  retained  by  a very  irritable  stomach. 

Dried  Bread. — This  may  be  used  either  fresh  or  stale.  Cut  into  thin 
slices  and  place  in  the  oven  with  the  door  open  and  quickly  dry  until  it  is 
crisp  but  not  browned.  For  children  this  is  better  than  crackers. 

Coddled  Egg. — A fresh  egg  with  the  shell  on  is  placed  in  boiling  water 
which  is  immediately  afterwards  removed  from  the  fire.  The  egg  should 
cook  slowly  in  the  water  for  seven  or  eight  minutes  when  the  white  should 
be  about  the  consistency  of  jelly.  Add  salt  and  for  a delicate  stomach  give 
the  white  only. 

Lime  Water. — Take  a heaping  teaspoonful  of  slaked  lime  and  a quart  of 
bottled  or  distilled  water;  place  in  a corked  bottle  and  shake  thoroughly  two 
or  three  times  during  the  first  hour;  then  allow  the  lime  to  settle  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Carefully  pour  ofif  and  use  the  clear  fluid.  From  a teaspoonful 
to  a tablespoonful  mav  be  given  at  a feeding. 

Gluten  Water. — Gluten  water  is  made  from  any  grain,  preferably  barley 
or  rice,  by  boiling  from  four  to  six  tablespoonfuls  of  the  whole  grain  in  a 
quart  of  water  for  an  hour.  It  should  then  measure  one  pint  and  be  strained. 
This  is  very  easily  digested  and  very  strengthening. 

Oatmeal  Water. — Take  a tablespoonful  of  oatmeal  or  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  rolled  oats  and  boil  for  three  hours  in  a quart  of  water,  adding  boiling 
water  to  have  a pint  when  done.  For  feeding  to  infants  this  should  be 
strained  and  added  to  the  milk. 

Barley  Water, — Add  a tablespoonful  of  pearl  barley  to  a quart  of  water 


NURSING  DEPARTMENT. 


43 


like  the  oatmeal  water  above.  Strain  and  use  as  a substitute  for  oatmeal 
water  when  the  bowels  are  loose. 

Rice  Water. — Add  a tablespoonful  of  rice  to  a quart  of  water  and  cook 
for  three  hours  as  directed  for  oatmeal  water.  When  strained  this  is  a good 
substitute  for  milk  in  cholera  infantum  or  it  may  be  added  to  the  milk  for 
feeding  infants. 

Arrowroot  Water. — Pour  a little  cold  water  on  a teaspoonful  of  arrow- 
root  and  rub  until  pasty;  add  a pint  of  boiling  water  and  boil  from  five  to 
ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  This  is  often  added  to  milk  mixtures  to 
break  the  rolled  curd  forming  in  a child’s  stom.ach.  It  should  be  strained. 

Toast  Water. — Two  slices  of  dark  brown  toast  should  be  added  to  a 
quart  of  boiling  water.  When  cool  use  it  for  sick  stomach  or  as  a drink 
when  thirsty. 

Egg  and  Barley  Water. — To  the  white  of  one  egg  add  eight  ounces  of 
barley  water  and  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  white  sugar.  This  is 
good  for  a child  recovering  from  a sickness  when  milk  is  not  successful. 
Rice  water  may  be  substituted  for  the  barley  water  if  preferred. 

Flaxseed  Tea. — Add  a tablespoonful  of  flaxseed  to  a pint  of  boiling 
water;  let  simmer  for  an  hour;  then  strain,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  lemon 
juice  to  suit  the  taste. 

Cream  and  Rice  Mixture. — Take  cream,  2 tablespoonfuls;  rice  water,  4 
tablespoonfuls ; boiled  lime  water,  2 tablespoonfuls  and  sugar,  1 tablespoon- 
ful. Give  every  two  hours  but  do  not  feed  enough  to  cause  vomiting.  If 
the  bowels  are  loose  or  show  curds  in  the  stools,  decrease  the  amount  of 
cream.  Increase  the  cream  when  constipated.  Increase  the  proportion  of  rice 
water  as  long  as  there  are  regular  daily  stools.  Rice  produces  constipation 
when  fed  too  freely. 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs. — Eggs  boiled  for  a few  minutes  only  are  generally 
tough  and  not  very  easily  disgested  but  if  they  be  boiled  for  an  hour  they 
become  tender  and  mealy  and  are  easily  digested.  If  the  stomach  is  in  very 
bad  condition  give  only  the  whites  at  first  then  later  the  yolks  also  may  be 
given. 

THE  PREVENTION  OF  DISEASE. 

We  are  a very  careless  people  in  many  ways.  We  travel  at  a furious  gait 
and  we  are  reckless  of  the  certain  results.  A great  many  ills  and  diseases 
can  be  avoided.  Suppose  one  is  very  warm,  thirsty  and  sweating.  How 
many  in  such  a condition  will  pour  ice  water  into  their  stomachs  and  produce 
gastritis  which  is  inflammation  of  the  stomach ! Or,  perhaps  a severe  chill 
is  the  result.  How  many  in  this  condition  sit  down  in  a draught  and  check 
the  perspiration  and  thus  take  cold  and  get  sore  throat,  pneumonia,  bron- 
chitis, catarrh,  neuralgia  or  rheumatism  ! How  many  will  get  their  clothes  or 
their  shoes  and  stockings  wet  and  never  change  them  and  dry  the  wet  parts! 
How  many  girls  get  wet  stockings  and  skirts  and  sit  in  them  at  school  for 
hours  even  when  they  are  “ unwell  ” and  then  wonder  why  they  have  painful 
menstruations  I How  many  will  dance  themselves  into  a perspiration  and 
then  sit  in  a cool  place  and  cool  off  suddenly  and  wonder  why  they  have 
coughs,  headaches,  neuralgia  and  are  sickly  in  general.  Nasal  catarrh,  chronic 
sore  throat,  laryngitis  and  consumption  flourish  on  such  errors. 

How  many  people  will  drink  the  strongest  kinds  of  teas  and  coffees,  live 


44 


PEOPLE’S  PIOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


on  them  for  breakfast,  and  then  wonder  why  their  stomach  and  nerves  are 
bad,  their  bowels  constipated  and  livers  torpid!  How  many  will  continually 
eat  ham,  pork,  sausage,  rich  pies  and  cakes,  greasy  gravies,  warm  pancakes 
and  perhaps  top  off  with  tea  or  coffee  or  wines  and  liquors  and  then  continue 
living  a sedentary  life  and  wonder  why  their  stomachs  give  out  and  they 
have  indigestion  and  dyspepsia  I You  cannot  disobe}^  the  laws  of  health  and 
remain  well.  I have  frequently  seen  mothers  give  a ten  months  old  baby 
rich  cookies,  candies  and  maple  syrup  and  even  peanuts.  I once  attended  a 
year  old  child  for  convulsions.  I found  it  had  eaten  peanuts  for  its  evening 
meal.  When  I got  up”  the  peanuts  the  convulsions  ceased.  I have  seen 
children  eat  green  apples  and  die  within  a short  time  with  dysentery  or 
cholera  infantum.  The  minister  and  parents  mourned  over  the  mysterious 
dispensation  of  Providence  in  taking  their  dearly  beloved  little  ones.  It  was 
not  Providence — it  was  Green  Apples.  I once  knew  a two  year  old  child  who 
died  from  eating  a blackish,  over-ripe  banana.  We  reap  what  we  sow 
whether  we  sow  intentionally  or  otherwise. 

How  can  you  escape  rheumatism  if  you  live  in  a cold,  damp,  musty  house 
which  is  closed  against  sunlight!  Man  made  houses  but  God  made  the  out- 
doors with  the  air  and  the  sunlight. 

And  then  as  regards  venereal  diseases.  These  cannot  be  contracted  with- 
out giving  full  pa\^ment.  They  are  very  difficult  to  cure  in  the  chronic  state. 
A few  years  ago  in  this  city  I saw  a young  man  of  good  family  who  was  then 
dying  with  inflammation  of  the  kidneys  caused  by  a venereal  disease  which 
had  gone  to  the  bladder  and  then  affected  the  kidneys.  And  the  man  is  not 
the  only  one  to  suffer.  Years  afterwards,  when  he  thinks  he  is  cured  he  may 
find  that  such  is  not  the  case  and  that  he  has  infected  his  wife.  The  major- 
ity of  cases  of  diseased  ovaries  and  tubes  that  come  to  our  public  hospitals 
is  caused  by  a latent  venereal  disease  in  the  husband. 

All  these  diseases  could  be  prevented  and  preventive  treatment  is  the 
only  sure  treatment.  Teach  your  children  how  to  live  if  you  wish  them  to  be 
healthy  both  physically  and  morally.  Instruct  the  young  of  both  sexes  how 
they  shall  eat,  drink  and  act  and  also  as  to  the  uses  of  the  organs  of  generation. 


DISEASES. 

CAUSES,  SYMPTOMS  AND  TREATMENTS. 

INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 

DIPHTHERIA. 

DESCRIPTION. — This  is  an  acute  infectious  disease  usually  affecting 
children  under  fifteen  years  of  age  or  before  puberty.  It  is  an  acute  inflam- 
mation sometimes  affecting  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  entire  throat 
including  the  nostrils,  pharynx  or  back  part  of  the  throat,  larynx,  palate  and 
even  the  nasal  or  nose  passages.  The  disease  is  attended  with  a false  mem- 
brane which  develops  in  the  mouth  and  throat. 

CAUSES. — It  is  caused  by  a germ  called  the  Klebs-Loeffler  bacillus  be- 
cause these  men  first  discovered  these  germs. ' The  disease  is  taken  by  coming 
in  contact  with  or  near  those  having  it. 

SYMPTOMS. — Diphtheria  is  from  two  to  seven  days  in  coming  on.  The 
patient  has  a sense  of  weariness,  chilliness  and  fever.  The  severity  of  these 
symptoms  varies  greatly  in  different  cases.  Sometimes  they  are  so  mild 
that  the  child  does  not  seem  to  be  ailing  at  all  and  the  parent  is  much  sur- 
prised upon  looking  into  the  mouth  on  the  second  day  to  find  a grayish  spot 
or  membrane  on  the  tonsils,  soft  palate,  uvula  or  in  the  throat.  In  other 
cases  the  disease  comes  on  suddenly  from  the  start.  In  nearly  every  case 
there  is  some  complaint  of  sore  throat  or  of  difficulty  in  swallowing.  The 
back  part  of  the  throat  is  red  or  inflamed  and  upon  one  or  both  tonsils  is  seen 
a tiny  grayish  patch  which  is  the  beginning  of  the  membrane  of  either 
tonsilitis  or  diphtheria.  If  it  is  tonsilitis  it  will  appear  on  the  tonsils  only 
and  when  the  membrane  is  removed  a smooth  glistening  surface  remains 
while  if  it  be  diphtheria  the  membrane  will  quickly  spread  to  other  parts  of 
the  throat  and  perhaps  to  the  nose  passages.  In  diphtheria  the  membrane  is 
of  a grayish  or  light  mouse  color  and  in  many  cases  becomes  shaggy  and 
dirty  looking.  In  attempting  to  remove  it  you  find  that  it  sticks  closely  to 
the  lining  of  the  throat.  It  can  be  removed  only  by  tearing  it  loose  so  that 
a raw  bleeding  surface  is  left  over  which  another  membrane  quickly  forms. 
In  this  way  you  may  distinguish  between  tonsilitis  and  diphtheria.  There 
is  nearly  always  some  enlargement  of  the  glands  or  kernels  under  the  jaws. 
Frequently  the  membrane  extends  into  the  nostrils  and  there  is  then  an 
acrid  or  burning  discharge  from  the  nose.  This  kind  of  diphtheria  is  very 
dangerous  and  most  frequently  affects  infants  or  very  young  children. 

Laryngeal  Diphtheria  or  Diphtheria  of  the  Larynx;  Also  Formerly  Called 
Membranous  or  True  Croup. — A membrane  forms  which  causes  very  difficult 
breathing  which  is  attended  by  hoarseness  when  speaking  or  crying  and  a 
harsh  cough  with  a metallic  sound.  Following  these  symptoms  it  is  noted 
that  ther.e  is  a light  whistling  sound  when  the  breath  is  drawn  in  and  this 
whistling  is  increased  at  times  by  what  seems  to  be  a spasm  of  the  larynx  or 

45 


46 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


upper  part  of  the  windpipe.  This  is  followed  by  constant  whistling,  harsh 
breathing,  much  restlessness  and  anxious  breathing.  The  child  may  grasp 
the  throat  with  its  hands  and  as  it  becomes  bluish  it  often  grinds  its  teeth 
and  looks  piteously  from  side  to  side  for  relief.  Its  pallid  face  may  be  covered 
with  sweat  and  altogether  it  is  a painful  sight  to  witness.  As  the  disease 
advances  the  child  becomes  more  and  more  limp  and  struggles  less  and  less 
for  breath  and  unless  relief  is  quickly  obtained  suffocation  will  be  the  result. 
Sometimes  in  the  older  children  some  of  the  false  membrane  is  thrown  out 
and  in  some  instances  they  throw  out  large  pieces  showing  the  entire  form 
of  the  larynx  or  upper  part  of  windpipe. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — As  soon  as  a white  or  grayish  spot  shows  in  the  throat  or 
on  the  tonsils  of  one  having  sore  throat  that  person  should  immediately  be 
placed  in  a room  by  himself  and  others  kept  away.  If  it  proves  to  be  diph- 
theria other  children  who  have  been  with  the  patient  should  at  once  be  given 
preventive  doses  of  antitoxin  by  a physician.  The  furniture  of  the  sick  room, 
such  as  carpets  and  curtains,  should  be  removed  and  only  necessary  articles 
such  as  bedding  and  clothing  should  be  retained.  After  removing  the  carpets, 
curtains,  etc.,  they  should  be  put  into  a solution  of  corrosive  sublimate  of 
the  strength  of  from  1 to  1,000  to  1 to  5,000.  This  can  be  bought  in  tablet 
form  of  any  desired  strength  at  any  drug  store. 

After  being  disinfected  these  things  should  be  boiled  and  dried  in  the 
sun.  The  room  should  be  well  ventilated.  The  nurse  should  not  mingle  with 
any  other  members  of  the  family.  All  articles  of  clothing  or  bedding  used  by 
the  patient  should  be  dipped  into  an  antiseptic  solution,  such  as  corrosive 
sublimate  of  the  strength  1 to  2,000,  before  removal  from  the  sick  room.  The 
physician,  before  entering  the  sick  room,  should  cover  his  head  with  a linen 
cap  and  wear  a rubber  coat  or  wrap  a sheet  about  him.  These  should  be  dis- 
infected both  before  and  after  using  and  when  not  in  use  should  be  hung  out- 
side the  sick  room.  If  it  is  necessary  for  members  of  the  family  to  enter  the 
room  they  should  observe  the  same  precautions  and  on  leaving  the  room 
they  should  gargle  or  rinse  the  mouth  with  some  mild  cleansing  wash  such 
as  boric  acid  solution.  After  the  recovery  of  the  patient  the  articles  in  the 
room  should  be  washed  in  an  antiseptic  solution  and  the  room  thoroughly 
disinfected.  Directions  for  this  are  given  in  the  Nursing  Department. 

Emergency  Remedy  or  “ What  To  Do.” — While  you  are  waiting  for  the 
physician  have  the  patient  gargle  his  throat  frequently  with  hot  water  and 
if  you  wish  you  may  add  a little  vinegar  and  pepper  to  it  or  you  can  gargle 
with  pure  lemon  juice,  listerine  or  any  other  mild  antiseptic.  In  some  cases  a 
little  sulphur  blown  into  the  throat  through  a goose  quill  is  an  excellent 
remedy. 

Caution  or  ‘‘  What  Not  To  Do.” — Do  not  use  utensils  or  garments  used 
by  the  patient  until  they  have  been  thoroughly  disinfected.  Do  not  get  any  of 
the  sputum  or  other  discharges  upon  any  part  of  your  person  and  if  you  do 
you  should  wash  and  disinfect  the  parts  immediately  with  a 1 to  5,000  solution 
of  corrosive  sublimate.  Do  not  forget  to  look  out  for  difficult  breathing, 
hoarseness  or  coughing  and  if  any  of  these  are  noticed  send  for  the  attending 
physician  at  once.  Do  not  let  the  patient  mingle  with  others  until  he  has 
been  pronounced  cured  and  safe.  Do  not  wash  the  patient’s  head  or  hair  until 
two  weeks  after  cured  as  there  is  great  danger  of  taking  cold.  Do  not  under 
any  circumstances  allow  the  patient  to  take  cold  during  or  for  some  time 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


47 


after  sickness  or  serious  after  effects  are  likely  to  be  the  result.  Do  not  let 
the  patient  get  out  of  bed  until  well  and  strong  and  do  not  allow  him  to  exert 
himself  for  some  time  after  recovery  as  the  heart  is  left  weak  and  many 
persons  have  died  of  paralysis  of  the  heart  after  they  were  pronounced  cured. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Antitoxin  is  now  the  chief  remedy  and  used  by 
all  schools  of  physicians  but  this  must  be  administered  by  a doctor.  Some 
give  bichloride  of  mercury  in  doses  of  from  1/100  to  1/60  of  a grain  every 
hour. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Belladonna,  3rd  dilution ; mercurius  protoi- 
odide, 2nd  trituration;  kali  bichromicum,  2nd  trituration;  lachesis,  6th  dilu- 
tion. As  to  direction  and  doses  see  “ Homeopathic  Medicines  ” in  the  Nursing 
Department. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — See  that  the  room  is  well  ventilated  but  do  not  allow 
the  patient  to  take  cold.  Be  careful  to  disinfect  every  article  that  comes 
in  contact  with  or  near  the  patient  and  carefully  follow  all  instructions  of  the 
doctor.  The  diet  should  be  mostly  of  milk  or  milk  preparations.  If  other 
foods  are  given  they  should  be  such  as  are  easil}^  digested  such  as  broths  or 
barley  or  rice  gruel.  For  preparing  these  see  “ Foods  for  the  Sick  ” in  the 
Nursing  Department. 

After  Effects. — Diphtheria  leaves  the  heart  in  a weak  condition  and 
paralysis  of  the  heart,  causing  death,  is  often  the  result  especially  where  the 
patient  over  exerts  himself  too  soon.  Sometimes  there  is  general  paralysis  and 
very  frequently  the  muscles  of  the  tongue  and  the  swallowing  muscles  of  the 
throat  are  affected  and  this  is  first  shown  by  the  food,  which  has  been  swal- 
lowed, coming  up.  Sometimes  the  vocal  cords  are  paralyzed  causing  tempor- 
ary loss  of  speech.  Other  results  are  broncho-pneumonia,  pleurisy,  inflamma- 
tion of  the  stomach  and  bowels  and  inflammation  of  the  kidneys.  The  parents 
and  nurse  should  take  great  care  that  none  of  these  serious  after  effects  are 
caused  by  their  carelessness.  Follow  carefully  the  instructions  of  the  doctor 
and  be  exceedingly  careful  not  to  let  the  patient  catch  cold. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Salt  Water  and  Fat  Bacon. — Gargle  with  salt  and  water  and  apply 
bandages  vret  with  salt  and  water  to  the  throat  and  bind  on  slices  of  fat  bacon. 

2.  Linseed  Meal  Poultice. — To  reduce  the  swelling  of  the  neck  apply 
a poultice  of  linseed  meal.  At  the  beginning  of  the  disease  have  the  patient 
inhale  the  steam  from  hot  water  and  vinegar. 

3.  Glycerine  and  Creosote. — Gargle  with  a mixture  of  glycerine,  2 
ounces;  and  creosote,  7 to  8 drops. 

4.  Steam  from  Lime  Water. — Have  the  patient  inhale  the  steam  from 
lime  water. 

5.  Alum. — Blow  finely  powdered  alum  into  the  throat  or  use  alum 
water  as  a wash. 

6.  Vinegar  and  Honey. — A gargle  composed  of  vinegar,  honey  and 
warm  water  is  an  excellent  remedy.  For  adults  add  red  pepper. 

7.  Salt  and  Ashes. — Fill  a flannel  bag  with  salt  and  ashes  and  apply 
hot  to  the  neck.  This  has  proven  very  effective  in  many  cases. 

^ 8.  Lemon  Juice. — A French  physician  says  he  has  cured  many  cases 
of  diphtheria  in  the  first  stages  by  giving  lemon  juice  as  a gargle.  To  half 
a glass  of  water  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  when  gargling  a little  swal- 
lowed will  be  all  the  better. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Lemon  juice  contains  citric  acid. 

Do  not  depend  upon  this  alone  but  get  a physician. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


iS 

9.  Pitch  Tar. — Insert  a funnel  over  some  pitch  tar  on  a hot  iron  and  let 
the  patient  breathe  the  smoke  five  or  six  times  a day.  Also  let  the  patient 
hold  small  pieces  of  ice  in  the  mouth.  This  treatment  has  eased  the  distress 
in  a great  many  cases. 

10.  Sulphur. — Gargle  with  sulphur  and  water. 

11.  Sulphur  and  Lemon  Juice. — Mix  sulphur  with  lemon  juice  and  take 
a little  in  the  mouth  every  half  hour. 

SCARLET  FEVER. 

Scarlet  Rash — Scarlatina. 

DESCRIPTION. — Scarlet  fever  is  an  acute  infectious  disease  with  an 
eruption  or  rash  peculiar  to  itself.  It  most  frequently  affects  children  under  15 
years  of  age.  The  rash  is  scarlet  tinted  and  made  up  of  very  many  small 
or  minute  points.  It  shows  on  the  second  day  of  illness  and  is  attended  with 
fever.  It  is  most  likely  to  occur  during  the  fall  and  winter  months.  The 
fatality  tables  of  our  cities  show  that  on  an  average  death  occurs  in  from  10 
to  14  per  cent,  of  the  cases  but  in  children  under  five  years  of  age  between 
20  and  30  per  cent,  of  the  cases  are  fatal.  These  percentages  are  probably  too 
high  because  many  of  the  milder  cases  are  not  reported  at  all. 

CAUSES.— Scarlet  fever  is  taken  by  coming  in  contact  with  a person  af- 
fected or  with  the  scales  which  come  from  his  body.  A person  may  also  be 
infected  through  the  discharges  from  the  nose  or  ear  of  the  patient  and  b}^ 
coming  in  contact  with  articles  of  clothing  worn  by  the  patient  or  furniture 
which  has  been  in  the  sick  room.  Books  and  letters  may  retain  the  infection 
for  a long  time  and  the  disease  is  frequently  spread  by  pets  such  as  cats  and 
dogs.  The  author  once  attended  a family  where  four  of  the  children  had 
taken  scarlet  fever  by  playing  with  a dog  coming  from  the  home  of  a neigh- 
bor where  they  had  the  disease.  No  other  acute  disease  renders  the  surround- 
ings of  the  patient  a source  of  danger  for  so  long  a time.  Clothing  and 
upholstered  furniture  have  transmitted  the  disease  to  healthy  children  two 
years  after  the  recovery  of  the  patient. 

Nursing  babies  do  not  take  the  disease  so  readily  as  children  from  2 to 
5 years  old  at  which  age  it  most  frequently  occurs.  A scarlet  fever  patient 
cannot  transmit  the  disease  until  the  rash  develops.  At  about  the  fourth  or 
fifth  day  the  patient  can  easily  give  the  disease  to  others  and  he  can  then  do 
so  as  long  as  he  continues  to  “ scale  off,”  which  is  often  for  six  weeks.  Ar- 
ticles of  food  may  convey  the  disease  and  it  is  very  frequently  spread  through 
milk  coming  from  dairies  where  there  are  persons  employed  who  have  scarlet 
fever  or  in  whose  family  it  exists. 

SYMPTOMS. — Not  all  persons  who  are  exposed  take  the  disease  but  if 
they  do  it  is  usually  from  3 to  10  days  after  exposure.  One  seldom  has  it  the 
second  time. 

How  It  Begins. — It  usually  begins  with  a sore  throat,  a moderately  high 
fever,  headache  and  backache  and  frequently  is  attended  with  sickness  at 
the  stomach  and  vomiting.  The  disease  generally  begins  suddenly  and  the 
suddenness  and  severity  of  these  symptoms  generally  show  how  hard  one  is 
to  have  the  disease. 

The  Rash. — The  scarlet  rash  is  made  up  of  many  fine  points  which  are  so 
close  together  as  to  give  the  skin  a flushed  appearance  like  a continuous 
or  solid  rash.  It  looks  a great  deal  like  a severe  case  of  heat  rash.  It  appears 
on  the  second  day  and  is  seen  first  on  the  chest  but  may  spread  over  Ihe  entire 


> 


SCARLET  I«'EVER. 

(•‘Jrd  and  Uh  days.) 

(Taken  al  Ann  Aidx  r,  Alidi.,  especially  for  this  book.) 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


49 


body  in  4 or  5 hours.  In  mild  cases  the  rash  continues  only  for  a day  or  two 
but  in  severe  cases  it  may  last  for  5 or  6 days.  The  rash  ends  with  ‘‘  scaling-.” 

The  Sore  Throat. — The  rash  is  generally  attended  with  a very  severe 
sore  throat  which  causes  much  difficulty  in  swallowing.  The  back  part  of 
the  throat  is  red  and  angry  looking  and  sometimes  so  sore  as  to  obscure  or 
hide  all  the  other  symptoms  of  the  disease.  Freiquently  the  tongue  first 
looks  like  an  unripe  and  later  like  a ripe  strawberry. 

The  Scaling. — When  the  rash  ends  the  outer  skin  begins  to  come  off  in 
scales  of  varying  sizes.  The  skin  may  “ peel  ” off  of  the  hands  and  feet. 
The  amount  of  scaling  and  how  long  it  'will  last  depends  upon  how  hard  one 
has  the  disease.  It  usually  lasts  3 or  4 weeks  but  in  bad  cases  it  may  last 
as  long  as  6 or  even  8 weeks. 

The  Fever. — The  fever  reaches  its  height  within  a few  hours  from  the 
beginning  of  the  attack  and  often  runs  up  to  105  degrees  within  12  hours  but 
usually  falls  to  103  degrees  after  24  hours  and  then  gradually  decreases. 

Diseases  Coming  With  Scarlet  Fever. — A stopping  of  the  urine,  or  water, 
may  be  one  of  the  first  symptoms  or  albumen  in  the  urine  may  be  the  only 
evidence  of  kidney  trouble.  Swelling  under  the  eyes  is  also  a symptom  of 
kidney  trouble  and  dropsy  is  likely  to  set  in  before  you  realize  it.  There  is 
also  likely  to  be  inflammation  of  the  ears. 

Distinguishing  Features  or  “ How  to  Tell  it  from  Other  Diseases.” — To 
distinguish  scarlet  fever  from  other  diseases  you  should  consult  the  “ Table 
of  Symptoms  ” and  “ The  Comparison  of  Diseases  ” given  in  the  Nursing 
Department  of  this  book.  Rose  rash  looks  a great  deal  like  scarlet  fever  but 
in  that  disease  there  is  no  sore  throat  and  the  tongue  does  not  have  the 
peculiar  strawberry  look.  Both  of  these  symptoms  are  generally  found  in 
scarlet  fever  and  will  aid  you  in  distinguishing  it  from  other  diseases. 
TREATMENT.— 

Preventive  Treatment. — Separate  the  sick  one  from  the  rest  of  the  family 
and  if  more  than  one  is  sick  it  is  best  for  them  to  be  put  into  different  rooms. 
Remove  from  the  room  all  curtains,  carpets,  etc.,  leaving  only  necessary 
articles.  As  to  disinfection  use  the  same  care  as  in  diphtheria  and  other  in- 
fectious diseases.  The  clothes  worn  just  before  illness  should  be  boiled  or 
sterilized  in  steam  and  then  aired  in  the  sun.  During  and  after  the  illness, 
the  bed  clothes  and  linen  when  removed  should  be  put  into  a 1 to  5,000  solu- 
tion of  corrosive  sublimate  and  then  boiled,  dried  and  aired  in  the  sun.  After 
the  patient  is  well  the  sick  room  should  be  disinfected.  Directions  for  doing 
this  are  given  in  the  Nursing  Department.  To  prevent  spreading  the  disease 
do  not  allow  any  of  the  children  to  go  to  school  or  mingle  with  other  chil- 
dren while  you  have  scarlet  fever  in  the  house.  Do  not  allow  the  children 
to  play  with  cats  or  dogs  coming  from  homes  where  they  have  the  disease. 
Spray  the  throats  of  the  children,  who  have  not  yet  taken  the  disease,  every 
morning  with  listerine  or  some  other  mild  antiseptic.  If  the  patient  is 
greased  from  head  to  foot  it  will  prevent  the  scales  flying  so  much  and  spread- 
ing the  disease. 

Emergency  Remedy  or  What  To  Do.” — Separate  the  child  from  the 
rest  of  the  family  as  soon  as  the  symptoms  are  suspicious.  Put  even  the 
mildest  case  to  bed  and  it  is  well  to  grease  the  child  from  head  to  foot  with 
unsalted  lard  or  a piece  of  fat  bacon.  If  the  child  is  old  enough  it  is  well  to 
have  it  gargle  its  throat  frequently  with  a weak  solution  of  chlorate  of  pot- 
ash. Use  from  3 to  5 grains  to  an  ounce  of  water.  Keep  the  child  warm 
4 


50 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


'^nd  comfortable.  Watch  carefully  for  symptoms  of  dropsy  or  kidney  trouble 
and  save  the  urine  that  the  doctor  may  note  the  condition  of  the  kidneys  and 
perhaps  avoid  serious  after  effects.  Watch  for  pains  in  the  ears  as  inflam- 
mation of  the  ears  and  deafness  are  often  the  results  of  scarlet  fever. 

Caution  or  “ What  Not  to  Do.” — Above  all  else  do  not  allow  the  patient 
to  take  cold  and  especially  during  scaling;  as  kidney  trouble,  deafness,  or 
blindness  may  be  the  result.  Do  not  throw  away  the  urine  as  the  physician 
may  need  to  examine  it  daily  as  to  quantity,  color  and  consistency.  Do  not 
allow  those  attending  the  patient  to  mingle  with  others  and  do  not  allow  the 
patient  to  do  so  until  the  doctor  or  health  officer  gives  permission.  If  in  the 
city,  or  country  districts  where  they  have  health  boards,  do  not  disobey 
their  laws  and  do  not  fail  to  report  even  the  mildest  case.  When  there 
is  scarlet  fever  in  the  neighborhood  do  not  go  near  it  or  allow  the  children 
to  mingle  with  any  of  the  family  or  play  with  their  cats  or  dogs.  Do  not 
forget  to  disinfect. 

For  the  Intense  Itching. — Grease  the  patient  with  fresh  unsalted  butter 
or  a piece  of  bacon  or  rub  with  sweet  oil  containing  from  % per  cent,  to  1 
per  cent,  of  carbolic  acid.  Or,  the  patient  ma}^  be  rubbed  with  weak  carbol- 
ized  vaseline.  This  is  vaseline  containing  a very  small  amount  of  carbolic 
acid. 

For  the  Pain  in  the  Ear. — Syringe  the  ear  2 or  3 times  a day,  or  oftener 
if  necessary,  with  a normal  salt  solution  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  The  normal 
salt  solution  contains  four  parts  of  salt,  three  parts  of  sodium  carbonate  and 
one  thousand  parts  of  water. 

For  the  Dropsy. — If  the  patient  has  dropsy  and  does  not  pass  enough 
urine,  and  usually  he  does  not,  give  pumpkin  seed  tea  freely.  Meanwhile 
sweat  the  patient  either  with  the  corn  sweat  as  described  in  the  Nursing 
Department  or  in  the  following  way.  Put  the  patient  in  a warm  room  and 
have  him  sit  on  a cane  seated  chair  with  a blanket  pinned  tightly  about  the 
neck  and  hanging  to  the  floor  on  all  sides.  Put  a pail  of  water  under  the 
chair  and  into  it  put  a hot  brick.  This  will  create  steam  and  cause  the  patient 
to  sweat.  Instead  of  the  water  and  brick  you  can  attach  a hose  to  a steam- 
ing teakettle  and  then  put  the  other  end  under  the  blanket;  or,  if  the  patient 
is  in  bed,  it  can  be  put  under  the  bed  clothes  which  have  been  raised  above  the 
patient.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  scald  the  patient.  Or,  the  croup  tent 
may  be  used  as  described  in  the  Nursing  Department. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — For  a child  eight  years  old  give  5 grains  of  citrate 
of  potash  and  20  drops  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  in  a little  water  3 or  4 times 
a day.  Or,  for  the  bowels  and  kidneys,  mix  2 ounces  of  epsom  salts  with  2 
ounces  of  cream  of  tartar  and  give  two  teaspoonfuls  dissolved  in  a little  water 
every  3 hours  until  the  bowels  move  freely.  The  bowels  should  move  once  or 
twice  daily.  This  dose  of  salts  and  cream  of  tartar  is  for  a child  a year  old. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Put  10  or  15  drops  of  the  third  dilution  of 
Belladonna  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  two  teaspoonfuls  every  1 to 
3 hours.  For  the  kidneys  when  there  is  passing  of  but  little  water  give  the 
third  trituration  of  Apis.  Mel.  Give  1 tablet  every  1 to  3 hours.  (See  “Homeo- 
pathic Medicines”  in  Nursing  Department.) 

Nursing  and  Diet. — The  nurse  should  see  that  the  patient  stays  in  bed 
even  if  it  is  a mild  case  for  there  is  great  danger  of  taking  cold  and  leaving 
bad  after-effects.  If  the  rash  is  driven  in  it  should  be  brought  out  with  hot 
teas  and  by  sweating.  The  sick  room  should  have  good  ventilation  and 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


51 


plenty  of  sunshine.  The  temperature  should  be  about  68  degrees  or  com- 
fortable for  the  patient.  It  is  well  to  have  the  child,  if  old  enough,  gargle 
its  throat  frequently  with  chlorate  of  potash  as  directed  above.  This  may  be 
kept  up  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  the  attack.  When  the  child  is 
getting  well  it  should  be  bathed  every  day  with  warm  soapy  water  to  aid 
in  the  scaling  and  to  lessen  the  tendency  to  kidney  trouble  and  dropsy.  After 
the  first  two  or  three  days,  when  the  child  is  no  longer  sick  at  the  stomach, 
cold  water  should  be  given  frequently  as  a drink.  Where  the  child  refuses 
milk  as  a diet  and  is  continually  wanting  w^ater,  the  water  and  milk  may  be 
mixed.  Do  not  give  milk  during  the  vomiting  stage  of  the  disease. 

If  the  fever  remains  persistently  above  103  degress  or  if  it  occasionally 
rises  to  105  degrees,  the  child  must  be  bathed  well  in  water  which  at  the 
beginning  is  about  90  degrees  but  is  allowed  to  drop  to  80  or  85  degrees 
during  the  bath  which  should  last  from  5 to  15  minutes.  The  child  should 
be  rubbed  all  over  during  the  bath.  Applications  of  cold  water  at  50  degrees 
should  be  made  to  the  head  as  long  as  the  fever  is  at  104  degrees  or  higher. 
Where  there  is  no  bath  tub  to  be  used,  frequent  washing  with  water  at  60 
to  70  degrees  must  be  adopted  without  drying  the  child  afterwards.  The 
cooling  baths  must  be  repeated  often  to  control  the  fever. 

After  Effects. — Dropsy,  chronic  kidney  trouble  or  Bright’s  disease  are 
very  likely  to  follow  scarlet  fever  and  there  may  be  a discharge  from  one  or 
both  ears  caused  by  inflammation  of  the  ear  which  may  result  in  deafness. 
Weak  eyes,  sometimes  resulting  in  partial  or  total  blindness,  and  endocarditis, 
or  heart  disease,  are  other  bad  after  effects.  Many  cases  of  chronic  tonsil- 
itis  follow  and  sometimes  the  glands  under  the  jaw  are  permanently  en- 
larged. Of  these  after  effects  kidney  and  ear  troubles  probably  occur  most 
frequently.  The  parents  or  nurse  should  constantly  keep  a look-out  for  pains 
in  the  ears  and  attention  must  be  paid  to  the  urine  and  the  patient  must  not 
be  allowed  to  take  cold  if  you  would  guard  against  the  serious  after  effects 
of  scarlet  fever. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Fat  Bacon — Sulphur — Cold  Water. — Rub  the  patient  morning  and 
evening  from  head  to  foot  with  a piece  of  fat  bacon.  Should  the  throat  be 
very  sore  apply  cloths  wet  in  cold  water.  Should  the  eruption  suddenly  dis- 
appear bathe  all  over  with  cold  water  and  without  drying  cover  imme- 
diately with  woolen  blankets  and  give  cold  water  to  drink.  When  the  skin 
begins  to  peel  give  an  occasional  dose  of  sulphur. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Greasing  the  patient  relieves  the  itching  and  aids 
in  keeping  the  scales  from  flying  and  spreading  the  disease.  In  using  cold 
water  be  careful  not  to  chill  the  patient. 

2.  Hot  Teas. — If  the  case  is  not  severe  little  medicine  is  needed.  Give 
penn}^royal,  catnip,  saffron  or  sage  tea.  To  relieve  vomiting  give  water  with 
a little  soda  in  it. 

3.  Chipped  Ice. — For  the  vomiting  give  the  patient  small  chips  of  ice  in 
the  mouth. 

4.  Bacon. — Give  the  patient  a warm  sponge  bath  every  night,  then 
grease  the  entire  body  with  a piece  of  uncooked  bacon.  If  the  case  is  severe 
bind  slices  of  bacon  upon  the  breast,  neck,  and  soles  of  the  feet.  This  treat- 
ment will  not  interfere  with  anything  the  physician  may  see  fit  to  give  inter- 
nally if  he  is  called  later. 


52 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Physician’s  Remarks. — The  bathing  establishes  a good  circulation  in  the 
skin  and  thus  keeps  the  eruption  out;  it  keeps  the  pores  open  and  helps  the 
skin  to  throw  oft'  its  proper  secretions  and  rid  the  body  of  poisons  and  it 
also  induces  sleep. 

5.  Onion  and  Saffron. — Cut  an  onion  in  halves ; take  out  the  heart ; 
put  a spoonful  of  saffron  into  the  cavity ; put  the  pieces  together  again ; wrap 
in  a cloth;  and  bake  in  an  oven.  When  the  onion  is  cooked  so  that  the  juice 
will  run  freely,  squeeze  out  all  the  juice  and  give  a teaspoonful  to  the  patient. 
Rub  goose  grease  or  a piece  of  bacon  on  the  chest  and  throat.  Keep  the 
patient  warm  and  seldom  any  other  treatment  will  be  required. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — The  saffron  keeps  the  bowels  open  and  the  onion 
is  soothing  to  the  sore  and  congested  throat.  This  remedy  comes  from  a 
mother  living  in  California  who  successfully  treated  her  five  children  who  all 
had  the  scarlet  fever  at  the  same  time. 

6.  Pepper,  Salt  and  Vinegar. — Take  cayenne  pepper,  1 teaspoonful ; 
common  salt,  2 teaspoonfuls  and  a teacupful  of  water  with  enough  vinegar 
added  to  make  of  the  desired  strength.  Bring  these  to  the  boiling  point,  let 
stand  until  cool  and  then  strain.  Use  as  a gargle  for  sore  throat  either  in 
colds  or  scarlet  fever. 

7.  Warm  Lemonade. — An  eminent  physician  of  Boston  robs  scarlet 
fever  of  many  of  its  terrors  by  prescribing  warm  lemonade  with  a little  mu- 
cilage or  gum  arabic  dissolved  in  it.  This  he  gives  as  often  as  the  patient 
desires.  He  also  applies  warmth  to  the  stomach  and  directs  that  a cloth  be 
wrung  out  of  hot  water  and  laid  upon  the  stomach  and  changed  as  rapidly 
as  it  cools.  Nothing  but  the  lemonade  is  given  internally. 

8.  Cleaver’s  Root  Tea. — Give  a tea  made  of  cleaver’s  root.  The  dose 
is  from  1 to  4 ounces.  Or,  equal  parts  of  cleaver’s  root,  maiden  hair  and 
elder  blows,  steeped  in  warm  water  for  3 hours  and  drank  freely  when  cold, 
is  good  for  scarlet  fever  and  other  eruptive  diseases. 

MEASLES. 

Rubeola — Morbilli. 

DESCRIPTION. — Measles  is  an  acute  infectious  disease.  It  is 
usually  epidemic,  that  is,  it  runs  through  a neighborhood.  It  usually  at- 
tacks children  and  a person  over  20  years  of  age  seldom  has  it. 

CAUSES. — The  disease  is  contagious  and  taken  by  coming  in  contact 
with  or  near  those  who  have  it.  It  is  carried  in  clothing,  etc. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  usually  comes  on  rather  gradually  and  is  much  like 
an  ordinary  cold  in  the  head  in  that  there  is  coughing,  sneezing  and  watery 
eyes  and  nose.  The  eruption  generally  appears  on  the  third  or  fourth  day. 
Upon  close  inspection  it  is  first  seen  in  the  mouth  but  is  usually  first  noticed 
on  the  face  and  neck  as  small  red  spots  and  from  these  places  it  spreads 
slowly  over  the  body.  The  spots  are  like  blotches.  The  cough  is  caused  by 
the  eruption  in  the  windpipe  and  for  this  reason  cough  medicines  generally 
do  but  little  good  until  the  eruption  disappears.  The  eruption  is  also  in  the 
eyes  causing  them  to  be  inflamed  and  very  weak.  The  disease  spreads 
rapidly  through  the  air  and  you  do  not  need  to  come  in  contact  with  the 
patient  or  his  garments  in  order  to  take  it.  A very  short  exposure  to  the 
infected  air  is  all  that  is  necessary  for  one  to  take  the  measles.  The  patient 
rarely  gives  the  disease,  though,  after  three  weeks  have  expired  from  the 


MEASr.ES. 

(5th  and  Gth  clays.) 

(Taken  at  Ann  Arbor,  Mich.,  especially  for  this  book.) 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


53 


beginning  of  the  attack.  One  usually  conies  down  with  the  measles  in  from 
8 to  20  days  after  exposure.  It  seldom  occurs  more  than  once  in  the  same 
person. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Keep  away  from  those  having  the  disease  and  do  not  allow 
the  children  to  play  with  pets  coming  from  homes  where  the  disease  exists. 
Disinfect  the  clothing,  furniture  and  sick  room.  Prevent  the  broncho-pneu- 
monia, which  sometimes  follows  it,  by  not  taking  cold  and  prevent  trouble 
with  the  eyes  by  not  using  them  or  exposing  them  to  light. 

Emergency  Remedy  or  “ What  To  Do.” — Put  the  patient  in  a darkened 
room  where  no  strong  light  can  strike  the  eyes ; see  that  he  does  not  take 
cold  and  keep  the  eruption  out,  if  necessary,  by  giving  hot  drinks. 

Caution  or  “ What  Not  To  Do.” — Do  not  let  the  patient  take  cold  or  the 
cough  will  be  made  worse  and  the  lungs  and  bronchial  tubes  will  be  affected 
and  sometimes  a severe  attack  of  bronchitis  or  pneumonia  will  be  the  result. 
Do  not  let  the  patient  read  or  expose  the  eyes  to  a strong  light  or  the  sight 
may  be  ruined  for  life.  Do  not  overload  the  stomach  or  diarrhea  will  be 
the  result. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — For  the  cough,  which  is  hard  to  control,  give  1/30 
of  a grain  of  codein  from  1 to  3 times  in  24  hours.  This  is  the  dose  for  a 
child  two  years  old.  If  there  is  diarrhea  give  blackberry  wine  or  a tea  made 
from  blackberry  root. 

Homeopathic. — At  the  beginning,  for  the  fever,  give  the  2nd  dilution  of 
Aconite.  Put  10  to  15  drops  in  a glass  half  full  of  water  and  give  2 tea- 
spoonfuls every  1 to  3 hours.  For  the  tight  cough,  throbbing  headache  and 
sore  eyes  give  the  3rd  dilution  of  Belladonna.  It  is  prepared  and  given  the 
same  as  the  Aconite.  If  it  hurts  to  cough  give  the  2nd  dilution  of  Bryonia 
in  the  same  way. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Put  the  patient  into  a darkened  room  where  no  sun- 
light enters  and  do  not  allow  him  to  use  the  eyes  or  they  will  be  weakened. 
See  that  he  does  not  take  cold  or  serious  consequences  will  follow.  Keep  him 
warm  but  not  uncomfortably  hot.  To  bring  out  the  rash  give  warm  teas 
such  as  elder  blossom,  ginger  or  horehound.  If  there  is  no  room  which  can 
be  kept  at  an  even  temperature  the  patient  should  remain  in  bed  during  the 
entire  attack.  Watch  the  cough  and  if  there  is  pain  in  the  chest  it  should  be 
attended  to  at  once  or  bronchitis  or  pneumonia  will  be  the  result. 

Cold  drinks  are  refreshing  and  beneficial  if  not  given  too  freely.  To 
children,  give  milk  after  the  fever  from  the  eruption  has  passed.  To  adults, 
as  there  is  generally  some  trouble  with  the  stomach  and  bowels,  give  food 
frequently  and  it  should  consist  of  the  various  broths,  milk,  eggs  boiled  for 
only  one  minute  and  similar  substances. 

After  Effects. — Weakened  eyes  and  impaired  eyesight  are  the  results  of 
reading  or  exposing  the  eyes  to  the  light  during  or  soon  after  the  disease. 
Bronchitis  and  pneumonia  are  the  results  of  taking  cold. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

L Weak  Lye  Water. — To  relieve  the  itching  frequently  bathe  the  pa- 
tient with  warm,  weak  lye  water. 

2.  Blackberry  Root  Tea.-:-If  there  is  any  diarrhea  give  blackberry  root 

tea. 


54 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  good  because  of  its  slightly  astringent 
({ualities. 

3.  Poultices  of  Mustard,  Hops  and  Lobelia. — If  there  is  inflammation  of 
the  lungs  apply  a mustard  poultice  to  the  chest  and  follow  with  a poultice  of 
hops  and  lobelia.  Change  every  half  hour. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  poultice  is  good  for  all  kinds  of  inflammations. 

4.  Saffron  Tea  or  Hot  Lemonade. — Give  plenty  of  warm  saffron  tea  or 
hot  lemonade  and  if  possible  keep  up  a gentle  sweat.  Sponge  the  patient 
every  few  hours  with  warm  vinegar  and  water. 

5.  Elder  Flower  Tea. — To  bring  the  rash  out  give  warm  elder  flower  tea. 

GERMAN  MEASLES. 

Rubella,  Rotheln. 

Description. — This  is  a distinct  disease  and  not  a form  of  the  regular 
measles  or  scarlet  fever.  It  is  usually  mild  and  rarely  affects  adults. 

Causes. — It  is  contagious  and  is  taken  by  coming  in  contact  with  or  near 
those  who  have  it.  It  is  carried  in  clothing,  etc. 

Symptoms. — The  person  usually  comes  down  in  from  ten  to  twelve  days 
after  exposure.  There  is  chilliness,  general  weakness,  some  running  of  the 
nose  and  eyes  and  there  is  generally  headache.  The  rash  sometimes  appears 
as  early  as  the  first  day  but  sometimes  not  until  the  third  day.  The  rash 
appears  as  red  spots  but  is  not  scarlet.  It  is  first  seen  on  the  face  and  then 
the  chest,  lasts  about  three  days  and  then  gradually  fades  away.  There 
is  generally  an  enlargement  of  the  lymph  glands  below  the  ears  and  under 
the  jaw  and  this  is  characteristic  of  the  disease.  The  symptoms  of  a cold 
are  not  so  severe  as  in  measles.  There  is  not  the  coughing  that  goes  with 
measles  but  the  glands  swell  in  German  measles  while  they  do  not  in  measles. 
The  fever  is  low  and  there  is  no  sore  throat  like  there  is  in  scarlet  fever. 
TREATMENT.— 

“ What  to  Do.” — Rest  in  bed  and  for  the  kidneys  give  a teaspoonful  of 
sweet  spirits  of  nitre  every  three  or  four  hours. 

“ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  take  cold.  Do  not  expose  others. 

MUMPS. 

Epidemic  Parotitis. 

. Description. — Mumps  is  an  inflammation  of  the  salivary  glands.  It 
is  an  acute  disease  of  childhood  and  is  infectious  and  contagious.  It 
is  also  contracted  by  adults.  The  disease  affects  the  parotid  glands  back 
of  the  jaw  and  below  the  ear  and  is  accompanied  by  mild  symptoms  which, 
unfortunately,  are  often  not  severe  enough  to  be  noticed  until  the  person  has 
taken  cold  and  serious  results  follow.  It  occurs  oftenest  between  the  fourth 
and  fifteenth  years  or  before  puberty.  One  attack  protects  a person  from  the 
second. 

Causes. — Mumps  is  usually  conveyed  from  one  person  to  another  and  is 
contagious  from  beginning  to  end  of  the  attack. 

Symptoms. — The  glands  back  of  the  jaw  are  swollen  which  gives  the 
patient  a broad  appearance  at  and  under  the  ears  and  prevents  his  chewing 
anything  solid.  The  pain  lasts  for  some  days,  usually  about  a week.  The 
attack  comes  on  from  three  to  twenty-five  days  after  exposure  and  the  average 
is  fifteen  days.  The  pain  is  greatly  increased  by  moving  the  jaws  or  bv 
taking  sour  things  like  pickles  and  vinegar  into  the  mouth. 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


55 


TREATMENT.— 

Caution  or  “ What  Not  to  Do/’— Above  all  things  do  not  take  cold. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Anoint  the  parotid  glands  back  of  the  jaws  twice 
daity  with  warm  oil  of  henbane  and  cover  with  cotton.  Keep  the  bowels 
open.  If  the  swelling  goes  to  the  breasts,  ovaries  or  scrotum  give  aconite 
in  full  doses  of  from  1 to  5 drops  every  1 to  3 hours  and  citrate  of  potash  in 
full  doses,  10  to  30  grains  every  three  hours,  for  the  kidneys.  Rest  is  a neces- 
sity. Put  a bandage  on  the  scrotum  to  hold  it  up.  Apply  hot  boiled  beans 
to  the  scrotum  as  a poultice.  This  is  very  good  and  I have  often  used  it  for 
this  trouble. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Mercurius  Sol.,  3rd  trituration.  Give  ' one 
tablet  every  1 to  3 hours.  If  the  swelling  goes  to  the  scrotum  give  the  3rd 
dilution  of  Pulsatilla,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  the  prepared  solution,  every  1 to  3 
hours.  (See  “ Homeopathic  Medicines  ” in  Nursing  Department.) 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Usually  the  only  danger  in  this  disease  is  from  the 
complications.  Do  not  take  cold.  Remain  in  the  house.  Drink  milk  and 
live  on  liquid  foods.  In  women,  if  the  swelling  goes  to  the  breasts  or  ovaries, 
apply  hot  fomentations  of  hops.  Renew  them  often  and  keep  them  hot.  If 
the  pain  is  great  you  can  put  from  V2  to  1 teaspoonful  of  laudanum  in  the 
steaming  cloth.  You  need  not  use  the  laudanum  every  time  but  about  once 
every  2 or  3 hours.  Generally  the  heat  and  moisture  will  ease  the  pain. 
In  men,  if  the  swelling  goes  down  to  the  testicles  or  scrotum,  boil  some 
beans  thoroughly,  apply  as  a poultice  and  keep  on  for  days.  Of  course 
it  is  to  be  applied  hot.  The  beans  hold  the  heat  and  moisture  longer  than 
hops  and  are  thus  particularly  good  for  this  purpose. 

After  Effects. — If  one  takes  cold  during  an  attack  of  mumps  the  swell- 
ing will  go  to  the  testicles  or  scrotum  in  men  and  to  the  breasts  or  ovaries  in 
women.  This  is  a very  serious  and  painful  result  and  sometimes  is  never 
fully  recovered  from.  Every  precaution  should  be  taken  that  the  patient 
does  not  take  cold  and  especially  if  the  patient  be  an  adult.  The  author  was 
once  called  to  treat  a man  sixty  years  of  age  who  had  been  very  careless 
and  taken  cold  so  that  the  swelling  “ went  down  ” on  him.  As  a result  a clot 
of  blood  lodged  in  the  brain  causing  partial  paralysis  and  entire  loss  of 
speech.  As  he  gradually  got  better  his  speech  came  back  slowly.  He  would 
say  “ he  ” meaning  she  ” and  though  his  wife’s  name  was  “ Alice  ” he  per- 
sisted in  calling  her  “ Cora.”  Even  after  recovery,  on  damp  days  and  at  cer- 
tain times  when  a little  excited,  he  would  partially  lose  his  speech  again. 
One  cannot  be  too  careful  about  taking  cold  during  an  attack  of  mumps. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Hot  Herb  Teas. — If  the  swelling  is  painful  produce  s-veating  by  plac- 
ing the  feet  in  hot  water  and  drinking  teas  of  catnip,  spearmint,  balm  or 
pennyroyal.  The  bowels  should  be. kept  open  with  epsom  salts  or  castor  oil. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  above  is  a good  treatment  as  the  sweating 
relieves  some  of  the  congestion. 

2.  Liniment. — An  excellent  application  is  a liniment  made  by  mixing 
two  ounces  of  alcohol  with  an  ounce  each  of  gum  camphor,  oil  of  sassafras, 
spirits  of  hartshorn,  castile  soap  and  spirits  of  turpentine. 

3.  Poultices. — If  the  swelling  goes  to  the  testicles  or  breasts,  produce 
sweating  and  apply  to  the  affected  parts  poultices  of  equal  parts  of  hops 


pf:ople’s  home  medical  book. 


5f) 

and  stramonium  leaves  made  with  hot  water.  Chamomile  flowers  also  make 
a good  poultice  for  this  purpose. 

CHICKEN-POX. 

Description. — This  is  an  acute  infectious  disease  usually  occurring  in 
children  under  ten  years  of  age  and  seldom  after  puberty. 

Cause. — It  is  caused  by  infection  or  taking  the  germs  into  the  systerr 

Symptoms. — Fever  usually  lasts  from  twenty-four  to  forty-eight  hou 
and  during  this  time  the  pimples  appear  first  upon  the  exposed  parts  of  th. 
body  such  as  the  forehead,  face,  and  hands  and  then  upon  the  chest  and 
back.  There  may  be  only  a few  or  there  may  be  hundreds.  These  pimple." 
are  first  red,  then  a clear  liquid  forms  and  this  later  usually  turns  to  a yel 
lowish  color  and  then  they  break  and  dry  up  leaving  no  scars  unless  the> 
are  very  large  or  have  been  irritated  by  scratching.  The  patient  is  usually 
well  in  a week  but  red  spots  where  the  pimples  have  been  remain  much  longer. 
TREATMENT.— 

“ What  to  Do.” — After  the  liquid  has  formed  in  the  pimples  the  large  ones 
on  the  face  should  be  pricked  and  washed  twice  daily  with  boric  acid  solution, 
using  half  an  ounce  of  boric  acid  to  a pint  of  boiled  water. 

“ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  let  the  patient  scratch  the  sores. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.—  ^ 

1.  Hot  Teas. — Keep  the  patient  in  the  house  and  but  little  medicine  is 
required.  Give  saffron,  pennyroyal,  sage  or  catnip  tea  and  open  the  bowels 
with  a seidlitz  powder. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Saffron  acts  on  the  bowels,  pennyroyal  causes 
sweating  and  sage  is  a tonic.  These  teas  bring  out  the  eruption. 

2,  Talcum  Powder. — Apply  talcum  powder  to  relieve  the  itching. 

SMALL-POX. 

Variola. 

Description. — This  is  an  acute  infectious  disease  affecting  the  entire 
body  but  showing  itself  chiefly  upon  the  skin  and  more  particularly  upon 
the  face  and  forearms  as  an  eruptive  skin  disease  which  first  appears  as 
spots  which  turn  to  pimples,  then  to  watery  pimples,  then  to  pus  pimples 
and  finally  to  a hollowed  out  place  in  the  skin.  The  disease  existed  many 
centuries  before  the  time  of  Christ. 

Cause. — It  is  taken  by  coming  in  contact  with  or  near  those  who  have 
it  and  is  caused  by  the  infection  entering  the  system. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  disease  usually  comes  on  from  five  to  twenty  days 
after  exposure,  as  a rule  about  twelve  days,  then  the  symptoms  develop  as 
in  many  other  acute  diseases.  Headache  and  backache  are  the  most  promi- 
nent symptoms  and  they  are  peculiar  and  very  severe.  This  peculiar  head- 
ache and  backache  are  characteristic  of  this  disease  and  their  intensity  is 
very  significant.  There  may  also  be  chills  and  pain  in  the  region  of  the 
stomach. 

The  Fever. — The  fever  is  usually  high  from  the  beginning  and  it  may 
reach  104  degrees  in  twenty-four  hours  and  in  forty-eight  hours  it  may  be 
at  105  or  106  degrees  and  remain  about  this  high  until  the  eruption  appears. 
Then  it  speedily  falls  to  90  degrees  in  moderate  cases  and  to  100  degrees  in 


CHICKEN-POX. 

(2nd  or  3rd  day.) 

(Taken  at  Ann  Arbor,  Mich.,  especially  for  this  book.) 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


running  cases.  It  then  runs  at  about  this  temperature  until  the  pus  begins  to 
form  when  the  secondary  fever  develops  which  rises  to  102  or  even  104  degrees 
but  falls  back  and  again  rises  one  or  two  degrees  many  times  and  gradually 
ends  so  that  by  the  end  of  about  twelve  days  there  is  no  fever.  It  is  some- 
times difficult  to  distinguish  between  small-pox  and  other  diseases.  Chicken- 
pox  and  measles  are  sometimes  mistaken  for  it  and  sometimes  small-pox 
is  mistaken  for  these  diseases.  It  is  also  sometimes  mistaken  for  a mild  case 
of  typhoid  fever.  A person  seldom  takes  the  small-pox  more  than  once. 
The  pulse  is  rapid  and  often  as  high  as  120. 

The  Eruption. — In  the  majority  of  cases  the  true  small-pox  eruption  ap- 
pears on  the  third  day.  At  first  the  eruption  may  be  very  scanty  and  perhaps 
there  are  but  one  or  two  spots  on  the  face,  hand  or  forearm.  It  usually 
appears  first  on  the  exposed  parts.  In  other  instances  the  spots  are  very 
numerous  on  the  face,  the  front  surfaces  of  the  forearms  and  on  the  trunk. 
These  are  the  parts  that  are  particularly  likely  to  show  the  first  signs  of  the 
eruption.  In  still  other  cases  the  surface  of  the  body  is  sound  and  the 
mucous  membrane  in  the  mouth  and  back  part  of  the  throat  is  affected. 
The  parts  that  are  affected  the  least  are  the  chest  and  the  back  surfaces  of 
the  legs  and  arms. 

The  eruption  then  proceeds  very  rapidly  through  five  stages.  For  the 
first  few  hours  very  small,  bright  red  spots  are  present  which  disappear  upon 
pressure.  They  soon  become  hard  and  raise  up  and  form  pimples.  About 
twenty-four  hours  after  the  appearance  of  the  eruption  the  pimple  begins  to 
show  a tiny  red  watery  point  on  its  top  and  this  rapidly  develops  so  that 
by  the  fourth  or  fifth  day  of  the  rash  the  pimple  contains  a fluid.  On  about 
the  fifth  or  sixth  day  the  center  of  the  pimple  is  slightly  sunken.  The 
fluid  now  becomes  cloudy  and  “ mattery  ” and  the  surface  of  the  pimple  or 
pock  gradually  loses  its  sunken  form  and  by  the  seventh  or  eighth  day  after 
eruption  the  pimple  has  become  a pus-pimple  and  by  the  tenth  day  is  raised 
or  dome-like  and  surrounded  by  redness.  In  from  twenty-four  to  forty-eight 
hours  the  matter  escapes,  dries,  and  forms  a dirty  looking  scab  from  which 
there  comes  a distinct  odor.  Sometimes  the  pus-pimple  does  not  break  but 
simply  dries  up  and  when  the  scab  falls  off  it  leaves  a red  or  pink  hollow  in 
the  skin  which  is  afterwards  called  a pock  mark.  In  small-pox  when  you 
draw  your  hand  over  the  pimples,  and  particularly  on  the  forehead,  they 
feel  hardened  as  though  there  was  gun-shot  under  the  skin.  This  is  one  way 
to  distinguish  small-pox  from  other  diseases.  The  rash  does  not  all  dis- 
appear at  once.  On  some  parts  of  the  body  there  may  be  watery  pimples 
while  on  other  parts  there  are  pus-pimples. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  is  good  nursing  and  nourishing  food. 

Preventive  Treatment. — Vaccination.  (See  this  subject  following.) 

Nursing  and  Diet. — For  the  intense  itching  apply  carron  oil  and,  if  nec- 
essary, add  to  it  one  per  cent,  of  carbolic  acid.  Carron  oil  is  made  by  taking 
equal  parts  of  lime  water  and  sweet  oil. 

For  the  great  pain  in  the  hands  and  feet  and  other  thick  parts  hot  poultices 
may  be  applied  or  prolonged  hand  and  foot  baths  of  lukewarm  water  may 
be  employed.  Also  an  ointment  of  one  dram  of  aristol  and  one  ounce  of  vase- 
line may  be  used. 

Dressing  for  the  Face. — Use  a mask  with  holes  cut  in  it  for  the  nose 
and  mouth.  On  the  inner  side  of  this  mask  should  be  placed  a thin  linseed 


5S 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  ROOK. 


meal  poultice  and  over  this  should  be  smeared  vaseline  containing  iodoform. 
This  should  be  changed  every  two  hours.  The  vaseline  aids  greatly  in  sepa- 
rating the  crusts  and  leaves  the  skin  free  for  the  application  of  the  dressing 
which  tends  to  prevent  ulceration  and  the  formation  of  scars. 

Mouth. — Rinse  the  mouth  with  boric  acid  solution  using  one  teaspoonful 
of  boric  acid  to  four  ounces  of  water.  When  the  mouth  is  very  dry  use 
flaxseed  tea  sweetened  with  a little  white  sugar  and  made  a little  tart  with 
lemon  juice. 

Pocks. — Do  not  open  the  pocks  with  a needle  or  knife.  Use  the  above 
application. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Cream  of  Tartar. — As  a preventive,  when  small-pox  is  in  a neighbor- 
hood, frequently  take  a little  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in  water.  Use  an  ounce 
to  a half  a glass  of  water.  Some  remarkable  testimonials  have  been  received 
regarding  cream  of  tartar  as  a preventive  of  small-pox,  some  even  claiming  it 
'to  be  also  a cure. 

Physician’s  Remark. — As  a physician  I cannot  see  how  cream  of  tartar 
can  cure  this  disease.  It  is  a mild  laxative  and  affects  the  blood  and  kidneys 
and  by  keeping  the  bowels  open,  the  blood  in  good  condition  and  the  kid- 
neys in  good  working  order  a person  will  be  more  healthy  and  more  able  to 
resist  the  attacks  of  any  disease. 

VARIOLOID. 

There  are  several  very  mild  forms  of  small-pox  and  of  these  varioloid 
is  the  most  frequent.  By  varioloid  we  usually  mean  small-pox  occurring 
ir  a person  who  has  been  successfully  vaccinated  but  it  may  also  occur 
in  a person  who  is  not  naturally  susceptible  to  small-pox.  Hence,  varioloid 
and  small-pox  are  one  and  the  same  disease,  the  former  being  merely  a milder 
form  than  the  latter. 


VACCINATION. 

Method. — Wash  the  skin  on  the  arm  or  leg  with  soap  and  water  and 
alcohol.  Take  off  the  outer  skin  (epidermis)  from  a small  place  but  do  not 
cause  much  bleeding.  Upon  this  spot  put  the  vaccine  point  and  gently 
rub  it  into  the  part  and  let  dry  before  putting  the  clothing  on  again.  Mica 
shields  are  now  generally  placed  over  the  vaccination  to  protect  it  from  dirt 
and  clothing.  Glycerinated  vaccine  lymph  is  very  good  and  is  put  up  in 
small  glass  tubes.  Vaccine  is  taken  from  the  belly  of  the  cow. 

Symptoms. — Three  or  four  days  after  vaccination  the  part  looks  red  and 
this  redness  increases  and  there  is  developed  a red  pimple  which  turns  to  a 
vesicle  or  contains  a fluid.  This  increases  in  size  and  by  the  eighth  day  is 
fully  developed.  The  redness  may  extend  on  all  sides  for  a considerable 
distance.  The  spot  is  painful  and  the  neighboring  glands  may  be  swollen 
and  tender,  particularly  the  gland  or  kernel  under  the  arm  if  it  is  the  arm 
that  has  been  vaccinated.  About  the  tenth  day  the  patient  may  have  a 
slight  rise  in  temperature  and  suffer  some  from  chills  and  a tired  feeling. 
Sometimes  red  spots  develop  over  the  body.  On  about  the  eleventh  or 


SMALL-POX. 

(Taken  at  Ann  Arl)or,  Mich.,  especially  for  this  book.) 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


59 


twelfth  day  these  symptoms  begin  to  lessen  and  the  pimple  or  vesicle  begins 
to  dry  up  and  is  completely  dried  up  by  about  the  eiid  of  the  fifteenth  day. 
The  crust  is  dark  red  in  color  and  thin  at  its  edges  and  in  the  center.  A 
pink  spot  is  left  after  the  scab  falls  off  and  this  gradually  fades  and  leaves 
a pitted  mark.  Some  cases  are  very  mild  but  some  are  quite  severe. 

Secondary  Vaccination. — Vaccination  the  second  time  does  not  generally 
take  so  well  or  is  not  so  severe.  If  one  trial  fails  it  should  be  tried  three 
times.  Children  should  always  be  vaccinated  during  the  first  year  of  life ; 
or,  if  exposed  to  small-pox,  they  should  be  vaccinated  immediately  after 
birth. 

Should  We  Vaccinate. — Vaccination  is  certainly  a preventive  of  small- 
pox. If  a person  has  been  exposed  to  small-pox  that  person  should  imme- 
diately be  vaccinated.  It  may  be  too  late  then  to  prevent  the  small-pox 
but  the  case  will  be  much  lighter.  Perscmally,  I believe  in  vaccination  and 
have  been  vaccinated  a number  of  times  myself.  However,  I must  say  that 
it  has  a bad  effect  upon  some  people.  When  small-pox  is  in  the  neighborhood, 
if  vaccination  is  ordered  for  the  school  children  by  the  authorities,  I would 
advise  you  to  see  a good,  conscientious  physician  and  have  him  examine  }^our 
child  to  see  that  it  is  in  condition  to  stand  vaccination.  Almost  any  one  can 
undergo  vaccination  without  serious  trouble  if  he  is  in  good  condition  and 
the  vaccination  is  done  in  a clean  manner  and  with  pure  material.  Everything 
must  be  done  in  a thoroughly  clean  manner  and  }^ou  must  use  pure  vaccine. 
Do  not  get  the  cheap  material  but  buy  it  from  a reliable  firm.  I like  the 
lymph  the  better  because  it  is  more  likely  to  be  pure.  Take  care  of  yourself 
after  vaccination  and  do  not  take  cold.  In  most  cases  where  there  are  bad 
results  I believe  it  is  due  either  to  uncleanliness  in  vaccination  or  to  taking  cold 
afterwards.  A doctor  should  not  come  into  your  home  from  tying  his  horse 
or  even  from  walking  and  begin  to  scrape  or  cut  for  vaccination  without  first 
thoroughly  washing  his  hands  and  boiling  his  instruments  in  water.  Great 
attention  should  be  paid  to  cleanliness  if  you  would  avoid  serious  results. 


GRIP. 

La  Grippe,  Influenza. 

Description. — The  “ grip  ” is  produced  by  a germ  and  is  highly  infec- 
tious. Epidemics  of  it  occurred  in  1830-33,  1836-37,  1847-48  and  1889-90. 

Causes. — The  germs  are  usually  taken  into  the  system  either  directly 
from  one  who  has  the  disease  or  through  the  air.  At  certain  times  the 
atmosphere  seems  more  favorable  for  the  growth  and  spreading  of  the  germs 
chan  at  other  times. 

Symptoms. — The  grip  develops  in  from  twenty-four  to  seventy-two  hours 
after  exposure  and  it  usually  begins  suddenly  and  with  chilliness  or  severe 
chills  followed  by  severe  aching  pains  in  the  back  and  in  the  legs.  The 
nostrils  are  inflamed  and  the  fever  generally  is  from  103  to  105  degrees. 
The  patient  looks  and  feels  very  sick.  About  this  time  symptoms  appear 
showing  that  other  parts  are  affected.  Most  frequently  the  respiratory,  or 
breathing,  system  is  affected  and  in  addition  to  more  or  less  inflammation 
of  the  membrane  of  the  nose  an  acute  bronchitis  or  cold  on  the  lungs 
develops  with  a great  deal  of  coughing  and  sore  chest  or  lungs.  The  patient 
is  very  much  depressed  or  in  low  spirits  and  sometimes  pneumonia,  pleurisy. 


60 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


or  heart  trouble  develops.  The  stomach  and  bowels  and  whole  nervotrs 
system  are  often  affected. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Do  not  take  cold  or  expose  yourself  to  those  who  have  it. 

Go  to  bed  and  stay  there  if  you  can.  Even  a robust  man  who  fails  to 
rest  almost  always  suffers  from  a severe  attack  of  grip  or  from  its  results 
and  he  may  be  made  an  invalid  for  weeks. 

What  to  Do.” — Go  to  bed.  take  hot  drinks  and  sweat  freely. 

“ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  take  cold  after  sweating  and  do  not  get  out 
of  bed  too  soon  or  some  of  the  serious  after  effects  may  be  the  result. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Little  medicine  is  needed. 

For  the  Aching. — Salicin  is  a very  useful  drug  for  the  aching  back  and 
limbs.  Give  five  grains  in  a capsule  every  five  hours.  It  may  be  com- 
bined with  two  grains  of  quinine  at  a dose.  Dovers  powders  are  also  good 
for  the  aching.  Give  from  two  to  ten  grains  twice  a day. 

For  the  Bowels. — Keep  the  bowels  and  kidneys  open.  Take  seidlitz 
powders  for  the  bowels  or  citrate  of  magnesium  if  there  is  bad  constipation. 

For  the  Kidneys. — If  the  urine  is  acid  give  five  grains  of  citrate  of  potash 
ever}^  four  hours  in  plenty  of  water.  If  the  urine  is  alkaline,  give  a five- 
grain  capsule  of  benzoate  of  ammonia  in  the  same  way. 

For  the  Bronchitis  or  Coughing. — If  the  mucus  is  tough  and  thick  give 
five  grains  of  chloride  of  ammonia  four  times  a day  with  grain  of  codeine 
or  1/24  grain  of  heroin.  This  is  for  coughing  in  an  adult.  For  persistent 
cough  give  five-drop  doses  of  oil  of  sandal  wood  four  times  a day. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Put  ten  or  fifteen  drops  of  the  second  dilu- 
tion of  Aconite  into  a glass  half  full  of  water  and  give  two  teaspoonfuls  every 
hour.  This  is  for  the  first  stages  when  there  is  a sore  throat  and  a hot  and 
dry  skin.  Gelsemium ; first  dilution.  Put  ten  or  fifteen  drops  into  half  a 
glass  of  water  and  give  two  teaspoonfuls  every  half  hour  or  every  hour.  This 
is  used  more  frequently  for  grip  than  the  Aconite.  It  is  for  the  tired  and 
languid  feeling  and  for  the  aching.  Sometimes  the  third  dilution  of 
Belladonna  is  used.  It  is  to  be  prepared  the  same  as  the  Aconite  or  Gel- 
semium. For  painful  coughing  use  the  second  dilution  of  Byronia  prepared 
and  used  the  same  way.  For  a tight  cough  use  the  third  dilution  of  Phos- 
phorus in  the  same  way. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Give  the  corn  sweat,  hot  drinks  and  lots  of  water. 
The  corn  sweat  is  described  in  the  Nursing  Department.  The  diet  should 
consist  of  nourishing  foods.  A good  thing  to  do  when  you  feel  the  grip 

coming  on  is  to  go  to  bed  and  stay  there  for  a few  days.  First  take  a good 

hot  foot  bath  and  at  the  same  time  drink  a lot  of  hot  drinks  such  as  hot 
teas  or  hot  lemonade.  Take  a good  sweat,  either  the  corn  sweat  or  by  putting 
hot  water  bottles  or  hot  bricks  about  you  in  the  bed.  After  you  are  about 
through  sweating  have  some  one  bathe  you  with  warm  water  using  either 
a sponge  or  cloth.  This  can  be  done  under  the  bed  clothes  so  that  you  do 
not  take  cold.  After  the  sweat  change  the  bed  covers  and  night  clothes. 
You  can  have  all  the  cold  water  you  wish  if  you  drink  it  often  and  but  a 

little  at  a time.  The  hot  drinks  are  better  used  while  taking  the  sweat. 

Open  the  bowels  with  salts  or  castor  oil.  If  necessary,  use  sweet  spirits 
of  nitre  for  the  kidneys.  A teaspoonful  may  be  given  every  three  or  four 
hours.  Buchu  tea  or  pumpkin  seed  tea  is  also  good  for  the  kidneys.  If 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


61 


you  sweat  very  much  you  are  not  likely  to  pass  much  urine  for  a few  hours. 
Be  careful  to  keep  covered  after  the  sweat  and  remain  in  bed  or,  if  this  is 
impossible,  you  should  at  least  remain  in  a warm  room  all  the  next  day. 
If  the  throat  is  sore  gargle  with  some  of  the  simple  remedies  found  in  this 
book.  Salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  make  a good  gargle  and  sage  tea  with  a little 
honey  in  it  is  also  good. 

I was  hurriedly  called  to  see  a farmer  friend  one  night.  He  had  a hard 
chill  with  pain  in  his  lungs  and  hard  and  difficult  breathing.  He  had  an 
attack  of  “ grip  ” and  I was  afraid  it  would  run  into  pneumonia  and  so  I 
directed  that  he  be  given  a ‘‘  Corn  Sweat  ” as  I have  described  in  the  Nurs- 
ing Department.  The  patient  agreed  with  me  that  this  saved  him  many 
days  of  sickness.  This  is  a splendid  aid  in  such  inflammatory  diseases  and 
I freely  recommend  it  in  all  such  cases  in  the  early  stage  when  sweating  is 
necessary. 

After  Effects. — Sometimes  pneumonia  and  pleurisy  go  with  grip  and  it 
is  often  followed  by  lung,  heart  and  kidney  disorders.  So  take  care  of  your- 
self during  an  attack  of  grip.  Do  not  take  a cold  and  do  not  get  out  of  bed 
too  soon.  One  should  not  over-exert  himself  until  fully  recovered. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1 Quinine  and  Capsicum. — Mix  twelve  grains  of  sulphate  of  quinine  and 
three  grains  of  powdered  capsicum,  divide  into  twelve  pills  or  capsules  and 
take  one  every  three  hours.- 

2.  Sweating  Remedy. — Put  the  patient  to  bed  and  surround  him  with 
hot  bricks  or  irons  until  the  sweat  pours  from  him.  Keep  the  patient  in 
bed  until  all  moisture  is  gone  and  stay  in  a warm  room  until  well.  Allow 
plenty  of  fresh  air  but  avoid  sitting  where  the  breeze  will  strike  you. 

3.  Corn  Sweat. — Take  a corn  sweat.  (The  corn  sweat  has  been  de- 
scribed in  the  Nursing  Department,  so  will  not  be  repeated  here.) 

4.  Mustard  Water,  Lemonade  and  Rochelle  Salts. — At  night  bathe  the 
feet  in  warm  mustard  water  and  drink  freely  of  lemonade.  If  there  is  fever 
take  the  lemonade  cold.  In  the  morning  take  a dose  of  rochelle  salts. 

5.  Hot  Teas. — If  the  case  is  severe  the  patient  should  go  to  bed  and 
hot  water  bottles  should  be  placed  at  the  sides  and  feet.  Also  drink  penny- 
royal, peppermint  or  sage  tea. 

6.  Vinegar,  Honey  and  Cayenne  Pepper. — For  the  sore  throat  and 
cough  use  the  following:  vinegar,  1 teacupful;  honey,  V2  teacupful;  cayenne, 
1 teaspoonful ; simmer  together  for  a few  minutes  and  when  cool  give  a 
teaspoonful  whenever  the  cough  is  troublesome. 

7.  Mullein,  Flaxseed  and  Slippery  Elm  Teas. — Produce  sweating  by 
bathing  the  feet  in  hot  water  and  drinking  warm  lemonade  or  a tea  made 
of  mullein,  flaxseed  or  slippery  elm.  Take  a mild  cathartic. 

Physician’s  Remark. — These  sweating  remedies  aid  by  helping  to  throw 
off  the  poison  from  the  system. 


CEREBRO-SPINAL  MENINGITIS— CEREBRO-SPINAL  FEVER- 

SPOTTED  FEVER. 

Description. — This  is  an  acute  infectious  disease,  often  malignant,  but 
not  contagious.  It  runs  a rapid  course  and  it  is  characterized  by  the  muscles 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


(),2 

of  the  back  bein^  drawn  tight  and  rigid  and  a sort  of  inflammation  of 
the  membrane  wliich  covers  the  brain  and  spinal  cord,  causing  a liquid  de- 
posit. It  affects  children  and  young  people  most  frequently.  It  is  doubtful 
if  it  is  taken  by  one  patient  from  another. 

Cause. — Caused  by  a germ. 

SYMPTOMS.— 

Moderate  Form. — There  is  a sudden  chill  which  may  be  preceded 
by  headache  and  dizziness.  The  headache  rapidly  becomes  severe  and 
there  is  also  severe  pain  in  the  back  and  down  the  back  of  the  thighs,  the 
muscles  of  which  are  often  drawn  and  fixed.  The  fever  which  follows 
the  chill  is  usually  moderate,  generally  about  102  degrees.  As  the  disease 
develops  the  muscles  of  the  back  also  become  tense  and  hard  and  likewise 
those  of  the  neck  and  arms  and  finally  they  become  almost  rigid  and  drawn 
so  tightly  that  the  patient  may  bend  backwards. 

Malignant  Form. — This  comes  on  very  suddenly.  The  chill  is  followed 
by  headache,  unconsciousness,  convulsions  and  death.  The  patient  is  over- 
whelmed by  the  poison. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  is  very  unsatisfactory.  The  injection  of 
a certain  serum  is  now  being  used  with  good  results  in  a number  of  cases 
it  is  said. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Chloral  hydrate  may  be  given  in  closes  for  adults 
of  20  grains  b}^  the  mouth  or  60  grains  as  an  injection,  in  starch  water. 
The  excessive  pain  may  be  relieved  by  giving  from  i/4  to  i/o  grain  of  mor- 
phine by  the  mouth.  Apply  an  ice  bag  or  anything  cold  to  the  neck  and  back. 
Relief  from  the  severe  pain  may  be  had  in  some  cases  by  putting  the  patient 
for  a long  time  in  a hot  bath.  Either  plain  or  salt  water  may  be  used  and 
it  should  be  at  the  temperature  of  about  99  or  100  degrees. 

Homeopathic. — Put  ten  or  15  drops  of  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite 
into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  two  teaspoonfuls  every  hour.  This  is  to 
be  used  at  the  beginning  of  the  attack  and  later  use  the  second  dilution  of 
Bryonia  in  the  same  way. 


ERYSIPELAS. 

Description. — This  is  an  acute  infectious  disease.  It  is  an  inflammation 
of  the  skin  and  tissue  beneath. 

Causes.— It  is  caused  by  a specific  agent  and  may  be  carried  to  another 
by  the  poison  coming  in  contact  with  a sore  or  break  in  the  skin.  Some 
people  take  the  disease  very  easily. 

Symptoms. — The  skin  is  bright  red  and  swollen  and  the  disease  may 
last  from  one  to  two  weeks.  In  the  majority  of  cases  it  affects  the  skin  of  the 
face,  the  cheek,  near  the  ear  or  about  the  corners  of  the  nose.  A tingling  is 
first  felt  which  speedily  becomes  an  intense  burning  and  is  made  worse 
by  rubbing  and  scratching.  At  the  beginning  of  the  attack,  people  who  have 
not  had  it  before  may  think  they  have  been  stung  by  some  insect  or  perhaps 
they  may  think  they  have  been  scratched  by  something.  If  it  keeps  on  spread- 
ing any  one  should  know"  what  it  is.  It  is  a disease  that  will  bear  close 
watching  especially  wdien  it  is  around  the  face.  It  spreads  very  rapidly  and 
by  the  end  of  twenty-four  hours,  or  even  before,  there  is  a sharp  line  mark- 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISF:ASES. 


63 


ing  the  boundary  of  the  affected  parts  so  that  you  can  tell  distinctly  where  it 
begins  and  leaves  off.  This  is  characteristic  of  the  disease.  The  face,  and 
especially  the  ears,  when  affected  become  very  much  swollen.  Sometimes 
blisters  "form.  There  is  little  or  much  chilliness  according  to  how  severe 
the  case  is.  There  is  sometimes  high  fever,  a rapid  pulse,  great  weakness 
and  delirium.  The  severity  of  these  symptoms  varies  a great  deal  in  different 
cases.  Erysipelas  is  a dangerous  disease  when  it  occurs  in  people  suffering 
with  some  chronic  disease  like  liver  trouble  or  Bright’s  disease.  It  should 
always  be  watched  carefully  when  it  gets  near  the  ears. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — A person  who  has  once  had  erysipelas  is  very  likely  to 
take  it  again  and  should  not  come  near  a person  who  has  it. 

To  prevent  its  spreading  I have  often  painted  the  healthy  skin  half  an 
inch  away  with  tincture  of  iodine.  Of  course  iodine  discolors  the  skin  and 
when  used  on  the  face  often  leaves  marks. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — If  the  bowels  are  not  active  they  should,  be 
moved  freely  with  a two  grain  dose  of  calomel  followed  in  twelve  hours  with 
a seidlitz  powder  or  half  an  ounce  of  rochelle  salts.  Then  give  ten  drops 
of  the  tincture  of  chloride  of  iron  every  three  hours.  This  should  be  well 
diluted  with  water  and  should  be  given  through  a tube  as  it  will  injure 
the  teeth  if  it  comes  in  contact  with  them.  As  a local  treatment  an  oint- 
ment made  of  equal  parts  of  ichthyol  and  either  lard  or  lanolin  may  be 
smeared  over  the  inflamed  parts  and  the  healthy  skin  nearby.  Also 
smear  this  ointment  on  a mask  made  of  gauze  or  lint  and  apply  to  the  parts 
so  that  the  effect  will  continue  longer.  A good  quality  of  either  brandy  or 
whiskey  may  be  used  internally  if  necessary. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — For  the  bright  redness  and  throbbing  head- 
ache give  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna.  Put  ten  t6  fifteen  drops  into 
half  a glass  of  water  and  give  two  teaspoonfuls  every  one  to  two  hours.  If 
there  are  many  watery  pimples  and  much  swelling  prepare  and  give  the 
sixth  dilution  of  Rhus.  Tox.  in  the  same  way.  If  the  urine  burns  give  the 
third  dilution  of  Cantharis  in  same  manner.  If  there  is  a swollen,  puffed 
skin,  pain  in  passing  urine  and  trouble  with  the  kidneys  give  the  third  tri- 
turation of  Apis.  Mel.  Give  one  tablet  every  hour.  A cranberry  poultice  is 
good  when  applied  locally. 

As  illustrating  the  result  of  carelessness  in  treating  erysipelas  I will 
relate  an  incident  that  occurred  in  my  early  practice.  I was  called  to  see 
an  Irishman  by  the  name  of  “ Murphy.”  Mr.  Murphy,  in  his  peculiar  dialect 
which  I shall  not  attempt  to  imitate  said,  “ Doctor,  I have  a bad  cough.” 
“So  I see,”  I replied.  “And  I feel  real  sick  and  feverish.”  “Yes,”  I said, 
“but  what  are  those  scales  on  your  face  and  ears?”  “Oh,  I had  erysipelas 
but  a ‘ pow  wow  ’ person  cured  that.  The  erysipelas  is  all  right  since  the  pow 
wowing  drove  it  awa}^  but  my  cough  bothers  me.  Give  me  something  for 
that.”  I gave  him  some  medicine  and  on  my  visit  next  day  the  cough  was 
gone.  Mr.  Murphy  said,  “ My  cough  is  gone,  doctor,  but  look  at  my  bloom- 
ing face  and  ears.”  It  was  as  I had  suspected.  The  erysipelas  had  “ gone  in  ” 
and  that  was  what  caused  the  cough.  The  medicine  I had  given  him  was  to 
bring  out  the  eruption  again  and  this  cured  the* cough.  Mr.  Murphy  then 
depended  upon  the  doctor  to  cure  the  erysipelas  which  the  “pow  wow  ” 
person  had  merely  driven  in. 


G4 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  RExMEDIES.— 

1.  Chalk,  Magnesia,  Soda;  also  Catnip,  Boneset  and  Tansy  Tea. — For 
the  sour  stomach  give  chalk,  magnesia  or  soda.  The  vapor  bath  will  give 
relief  when  the  eruption  appears.  If  on  the  face  or  head  steam  the  parts 
over  a decoction  of  catnip,  boneset  or  tansy,  several  times  daily. 

2.  Cranberry  Poultice. — Boil  a quart  of  cranberries  until  soft,  mix  with 
flour  and  apply  to  the  parts. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  relieves  the  pain  and  burning  and  is  one  of 
the  best  local  remedies  known. 

3.  For  the  Burning  and  Itching. — To  relieve  the  burning  and  itching 
add  a little  vinegar  to  equal  parts  of  blood  root  and  tincture  of  lobelia  and 
apply  three  times  a day;  or,  a decoction  of  mayweed  and  smartweed  may  be 
applied  cold;  or,  apply  rye  meal,  powdered  starch  or  a tea  made  of  buck- 
wheat meal. 

4.  Weak  Lye  Water. — Bathe  the  parts  once  a day  in  weak  lye  water. 

5.  Blue  Flag,  Yellow  Dock,  Bittersweet,  Burdock,  Sassafras  and  Elder 
Flowers. — Take  one  ounce  each  of  coarsely  powdered  blue  flag  root,  yellow 
dock  root,  bittersweet  root,  burdock  root  and  sassafras  bark  and  add  two 
ounces  of  elder  flowers  and  three  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Cover  and  let 
steep  for  twenty-four  hours;  then  press  and  strain  and  take  a wineglassful 
three  times  a day. 

Physician’s  Remark*»=^This  is  good  for  the  blood,  especially  for  chronic 
troubles. 

6.  Mustard. — If  the  disease  should  be  driven  in  rub  the  affected  parts 
Avith  mustard  and  immerse  the  whole  body  in  hot  water. 

7.  Tallow,  Lard,  Cold  Cream,  Flaxseed,  Slippery  Elm  Bark. — Remedy 
the  burning  by  apphdng  tallow,  lard  or  cold  cream.  A mucilage  made  of 
either  flaxseed  or  slippery  elm  bark  will  do  as  weU. 

8.  Tea  made  from  Bark  of  Burr  Oak. — With*a  tea  made  from  the  inner 
bark  of  the  burr  oak  tree  make  a bread  poultice  and  apply  to  the  parts. 

9.  Lemon  Juice  and  Brandy. — Add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  to  a gill 
of  brandy  and  keep  the  affected  parts  well  moistened.  If  this  is  too  strong 
a gill  of  water  may  be  added.  Sometimes  drinking  lemonade  is  beneficial. 

10.  Hot  Milk. — Apply  hot  milk  or  hot  buttermilk  to  the  parts.  Gly- 
cerine applied  several  times  a day  is  also  good. 

11.  Flour. — Flour  dusted  upon  the  parts  sometimes  gives  relief. 

12.  Poke  Berry  Poultice. — Mash  a handful  of  poke  berry  roots  in  a pint 
of  sweet  milk  and  apply  to  the  inflamed  parts.  A lady  in  Indiana  sa}^s  she 
has  never  knov/n  this  'remedy  to  fail  and  she  has  tried  it  several  times. 

13.  Starch  and  Flour. — Keep  the  parts  covered  with  powdered  starch 
or  scorched  flour.  This  is  to  shield  it  from  the  air  and  light. 

14.  Cleaver’s  Root  Tea. — For  internal  use  make  a tea  of  cleaver’s  root 
and  take  from  two  to  four  ounces  three  or  four  times  a day.  This  tea  is 
made  by  steeping  1%  ounces  of  the  herb  in  a pint  of  boiling  water. 

15.  Herb  Tea. — At  the  beginning  of  the  disease  make  a tea  by  steeping 
equal  parts  of  cleaver’s  root,  maiden  hair  and  elder  blows  in  warm  water  for 
two  or  three  hours.  When  cold  it  may  be  drank  freely  . 

16.  Buttermilk. — Dip  a cloth  into  buttermilk  and  apply  to  the  parts. 

17.  Salt  and  Vinegar. — “ Bathe  the  parts  frequently  with  salt  and  vine- 
gar,” writes  a lady  from  Columbus,  Ohio. 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


65 


ACUTE  INFLAMMATORY  RHEUMATISM— ACUTE  ARTICULAR 
RHEUMATISM— ACUTE  RHEUMATIC  FEVER. 

Description. — This  disease  occurs  most  frequently  in  the  cool,  damp 
months.  It  most  often  occurs  between  the  ages  of  twenty  and  thirty-five 
years  and  seldom  after  the  forty-fifth  year.  It  does  not  often  occur  in  children. 
Males  are  a fleeted  more  than  females.  It  was  formerly  thought  that  the 
disease  was  due  to  too  much  uric  acid  in  the  blood  but  this  belief  is  now  los- 
ing ground  and  it  is  thought  the  infection  gets  into  the  general  system 
through  the  tonsils. 

Symptoms. — The  disease  usually  comes  on  suddenly.  The  patient  may 
awake  to  find  one  or  more  of  his  larger  joints  very  much  inflamed  and  that 
any  movement  causes  great  pain.  The  part  may  be  so  sensitive  to  the  touch 
as  to  prevent  any  examination  by  touching  or  handling.  The  skin  over  the 
parts  is  dusky  and  quite  puffy  and  hotter  than  other  parts.  There  is  fever, 
the  tongue  is  coated,  the  bowels  constipated  and  the  skin  hot  and  drv  or 
bathed  with  a sticky  sweat  with  a bad  odor.  This  sweating  does  not  relieve 
the  patient.  There  is  not  much  water  passed  and  what  there  is  looks  like 
coffee.  The  inflammation  quickly  spreads  to  other  joints  and  may  go 
through  the  joints  of  the  whole  body  one  or  more  times.  The  joints  that 
were  first  affected  are  generally  a little  easier  when  the  inflammation  goes 
to  other  joints.  After  a person  has  had  an  attack  of  inflammatory  rheuma- 
tism he  is  more  subject  to  it  than  before.  The  disease  may  last  only  a week 
and  it  may  last  for  months.  It  is  terribly  painful  and  requires  more  than 
the  patience  of  Job  to  bear  the  suffering  without  the  use  of  words  that 
would  not  look  well  in  print. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Do  not  catch  cold  in  any  way.  A person  should  not 
come  in  from  work  or  exercise  all  heated  and  sit  down  in  a draught  to  cool 
off.  Do  not  get  the  feet  and  limbs  wet  and  then  neglect  to  change  your  cloth- 
ing. Some  people  go  around  all  day  at  work  or  sit  in  school  all  day  with 
wet  shoes  and  stockings  and  then  wonder  why  they  have  rheumatism.  One 
who  has  once  had  the  disease  should  be  especially  careful  about  these  things 
for  he  will  be  more  subject  to  it  than  before.  Do  not  sleep  in  a ‘‘  spare  bed  ” 
without  first  thoroughly  airing  and  drying  the  bed  clothes.  One  who  is 
subject  to  rheumatism  should  always  sleep  upstairs  as  it  is  not  so  likelv  to 
be  damp  as  are  the  rooms  which  are  on  the  first  floor.  All  these  things  should 
be  carefully  looked  after  for  rheumatism  is  more  easily  prevented  than  cured. 

“ What  to_  Do.” — Drink  large  quantities  of  water.  Give  nutritious  foods 
and  good  nursing. 

“ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  be  cross  with  the  patient. 

Allopathic  Treatment.— Give  salicylate  of  soda  in  five  to  ten-grain  doses 
from  3 to  6 times  daily.  Larger  doses  may  sometimes  be  used  or  smaller 
doses  may  be  given  more  often.  This  medicine  is  very  effective  but  fre- 
quently the  stomach  will  not  stand  it.  Give  it  in  capsules  and  follow  with 
large  quantities  of  water  or  milk  to  prevent  its  irritating  the  stomach.  To 
prevent  heart  trouble,  from  four  to  six  small  fly  blisters  may  be  placed 
over  the  heart.  While  giving  the  salicylate  of  soda  give  forty  grains  of 
common  baking  soda  in  each  twenty-four  hours.  If  the  salicylate  of  soda 
does  not  begin  to  help  in  four  or  five  davs  you  should  stop  using  it  and 
5 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


()() 


give  ten  drops  of  wine  of  colchicum  root  and  fifteen  grains  of  iodide  of 
potassium  three  times  daily. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — During  the  whole  course  of  the  disease  use  the 
second  dilution  of  Aconite.  Put  ten  to  fifteen  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water 
and  take  two  teaspoonfuls  at  a dose.  Alternate  this  every  hour  with  one 
of  the  following  medicines  according  to  the  symptoms.  These  medicines 
should  be  prepared  the  same  as  the  Aconite.  If  there  is  a throbbing  pain 
in  head  and  the  parts  are  red  use  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna  with  the 
Aconite.  If  any  motion  makes  the  person  worse  use  the  second  dilution  of 
Bryonia.  If  the  patient  is  better  after  moving  a little  but"  restless  when 
quiet  use  the  sixth  dilution  of  Rhus.  Tox.  If  the  patient  is  very  restless 
and  thirsty  use  the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum.  As  before  stated,  one  of 
these,  according  to  the  symptoms,  is  to  be  alternated  with  the  Aconite. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Nursing  is  an  important  factor  in  this  disease  but 
there  are  few  nurses  who  have  the  required  patience.  Remember  that  the 
patient  is  suffering  intense  pain.  Sometimes  moist  applications  to  the  joints 
aid  in  easing  the  pain.  Again,  binding  the  exposed  parts  with  cotton  batting 
is  good.  The  feet  and  hands  may  be  covered  with  this.  Even  the  iar  of 
your  walking  on  the  floor  hurts  the  patient,  so  when  you  try  to  lift  him 
be  very  careful  about  it  and  do  not  lose  patience  if  he  gets  angry.  I have 
had  inflammatory  rheumatism  myself  and  know  that  the  pain  is  agonizing. 
You  need  plenty  of  pillows  to  put 'under  and  around  the  patient.  Arrange 
and  rearrange  them  to  suit  the  patient  and  do  not  be  angry  if  you  do  not 
suit  him  the  first  time.  There  is  only  one  that  can  and  must  have  patience 
and  that  is  the  nurse.  The  sick  one  is  suffering  too  much  to  think  about 
patience.  Keep  visitors  out  and  the  patient  will  rest  and  sleep  better.  See 
that  the  bowels  move  every  day  and  that  the  kidneys  work  well.  Give 
plenty  of  water.  Watch  the  heart  and  if  you  see  the  bed  clothes  shaking 
from  its  hard  beating  it  is  then  time  to  give  heart  remedies.  I never  like 
to  give  opiates  during  this  disease  for  sometimes  they  affect  the  heart  so 
as  to  hide  the  symptoms  that  show  its  condition. 

In  the  first  year  of  my  practice  I was  taken  with  inflammatory  rheu- 
matism in  January.  In  April  we  moved  into  a large  brick  house  with  closed 
blinds  and  surrounded  by  shade  trees.  I had  no  time  to  recover  entirely 
from  the  rheumatism.  In  the  summer  I would  come  into  the  house  sweat- 
ing and  sit  down  and  of  course  became  stiffer  and  stiffer  with  the  rheumatism. 
The  house  was  cool,  damp  and  musty  but  very  pleasant  after  being  out  in 
the  hot  sun.  We  finally  decided  I could  not  get  better  in  this  place  and  so 
left  it.  It  was  a damp  house  but  the  admittance  of  sunshine  through 
open  windows  and  care  on  my  part  would  have  made  me  well.  I was  a 
victim  of  my  own  carelessness.  A damp,  musty,  cold  house  with  the  sun- 
shine and  air  shut  out  will  help  along  any  case  of  rheumatism.  This  disease 
flourishes  on  such  treatment.  Get  into  the  air  and  sunshine  and  sleep  up- 
stairs in  a warm  room,  you  rheumatic  people.  Most  of  our  ills  are  of  our 
own  making  and  yet  we  wonder  how  such  things  can  be.  If  we  will,  we 
can  generally  find  the  cause  of  our  ailments  in  our  own  carelessness. 

After  Effects. — The  cause  of  death  in  this  disease  is  generally  the  heart 
trouble  which  it  brings  on.  Disease  of  the  valves  and  muscles  of  the  heart 
and  of  the  membrane  surrounding  it  fpericardium)  is  often  the  result  of  this 
disease.  The  heart  should  be  carefully  watched  both  during  and  after  an 
attack  of  inflammatory  rheumatism. 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES, 


67 


DYSENTERY. 

Bloody  Flux. 

Description. — The  disease  is  characterized  by  diarrhea,  pain  in  the  ab- 
domen and  the  presence  of  mucus  in  the  stools. 

Causes. — Getting  wet  and  taking  cold,  improper  food  and  poor  drinking 
water. 

Symptoms. — Sometimes  it  comes  on  suddenly  and  sometimes  it  develops 
gradually  from  diarrhoea.  One  feels  wretched  and  in  the  first  stages  often 
has  griping  pains  in  the  abdomen.  After  a time  the  stools  become  scanty 
and  are  mostly  liquid  or  mucus  and  often  there  is  passing  of  blood.  The 
griping  pains  become  more  severe  and  there  is  intense  straining  at  stool  which 
causes  the  patient  to  break  out  in  a profuse  sweat.  There  ps  a constant  de- 
sire to  have  the  bowels  move  and  there  is  also  difficulty  and  pain  in  passing 
urine.  The  tongue  is  foul  and  dry. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Use  boiled  water  in  hot  weather  and  eat  properly  cooked 
foods.  Avoid  cold  and  wet  and  see  that  there  is  proper  drainage. 

“ What  to  Do.” — Find  out  the  cause  if  possible  and  remove  that.  Look  to 
the  diet  and  the  drinking  water.  Give  a laxative  to  remove  irritating  ma- 
terial from  the  bowels.  Remain  quiet  during  the  attack. 

**  What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  eat  anything  during  the  attack  if  you  can 
avoid  it.  Do  not  drink  unboiled  water.  Do  not  strain  at  stool.  Do  not 
get  wet  or  take  cold. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Give  intestinal  antiseptics.  Salol  is  good  when 
given  in  five-grain  doses  three  times  a day.  Subnitrate  of  bismuth  may  be 
given  in  from  five  to  ten-grain  doses  every  three  hours.  A good  combina- 
tion is  powdered  ipecac  and  opium,  % dram : subnitrate  of  bismuth,  V2  ounce ; 
and  salol,  % dram.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and  make  twelve  powders  and  give 
one  every  two  hours.  Give  injections  high  up  in  the  bowels.  Sometimes 
an  injection  of  sulphocarbolate  of  zinc  is  good.  Use  twenty  grains  in  a pint 
of  water.  A fountain  syringe  should  be  used.  Oil  of  fireweed  every  three 
hours  is  also  good.  Give  five  drops  on  a lump  of  sugar. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — For  the  griping  and  straining  give  the  third 
trituration  of  Mercurius  Sol.  The  dose  is  one  tablet  every  two  to  three 
hours.  If  the  griping  and  straining  are  severe  give  the  third  trituration 
of  Mercurius  Cor.,  in  the  same  way.  If  there  is  great  thirst  and  restlessness 
and  watery,  bloody  and  burning  stools  give  the  third  trituration  of  Arseni- 
cum in  the  same  way.  The  Mercurius  Sol.  is  generally  the  one  to  be  given 
in  the  first  stages. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — First  find  out  what  the  patient  has  been  eating  to 
cause  the  attack  and  avoid  it.  I first  like  to  give  something  to  get  rid  of 
all  putrid  food  in  the  bowels.  Give  half  an  ounce  of  castor  oil  to  an  adult 
or  a teaspoonful  to  a baby.  It  will  push  out  all  irritating  matter  from 
the  bowels  and  will  frequently  stop  the  worst  attack  and  you  can  then  give 
your  medicines.  Spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb  is  a pleasant  medicine  for  those 
who  cannot  take  the  castor  oil.  Oil  of  fireweed  in  five-drop  doses  on  a little 
sugar,  for  an  adult,  is  very  good  when  given  four  hours  after  the  castor  oil 
or  the  rhubarb  is  taken.  You  can  give  this  every  three  hours  if  necessary. 


68 


PEOPLE’S  PIOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Do  not  feed  any  solid  foods  and  give  nothing  at  all  if  possible.  If  something 
is  necessary  give  hot  water  or  egg  albumen  or  hot  diluted  milk.  Barley 
water,  oatmeal  water  or  rice  water  is  good.  Directions  for  making  these 
will  be  found  in  the  Nursing  Department.  Lime  water  mixed  with  the 
milk  is  good.  Sometimes  blackberry  wine  does  good.  It  is  a little  astringent 
and  is  also  a food. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Castor  Oil  and  Paregoric — Flaxseed  or  Slippery  Elm  Tea. — If  the 
case  is  not  severe  give  a teaspoonful  of  castor  oil  and  two  teaspoonfuls  oi 
paregoric  once  a day.  Flaxseed  or  slippery  elm  tea  may  be  drank.  It  is 
also  well  to  inject  the  bowels  with  starch  water  with  half  a teaspoonful  oi 
laudanum  in  it.  i 

2.  Golden  Seal. — A tea  made  of  golden  seal  is  an  excellent  injection 
for  chronic  dysentery. 

Physician’s  Remark. — In  large  doses  golden  seal  is  constipating  and  it  is 
a tonic  to  the  membranes  of  the  intestines. 

3.  Blackberries. — Take  two  quarts  of  ripe  blackberries,  a pint  of  loaf 
sugar  and  one-half  ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  cayenne,  cloves  and  allspice. 
Boil  these  together;  strain  when  cold  and  add  a pint  of  fourth  proof  brandy. 
According  to  the  age  take  from  a tablespoonful  to  a wineglassful  at  a dose. 

Physician’s  Remark. — All  these  are  stimulating  and  somewhat  binding 
in  their  action. 

4.  Rhubarb. — If  the  case  is  not  severe,  burned  rhubarb  is  good.  (This 
is  given  under  “ Diarrhea.”) 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  rhubarb  removes  the  irritating  material  from 
the  bowels. 

5.  Flaxseed  or  Slippery  Elm  Tea. — Watch  the  diet  and  after  each 
movement  of  the  bowels  give  an  injection  of  flaxseed  tea  or  slippery  elm 
tea  made  from  the  water  taken  off  of  oatmeal. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  not  only  washes  out  the  irritating  material 
but  it  is  also  soothing  to  the  bowels. 

6.  Golden  Seal,  Saleratus,  Charcoal  and  Rhubarb. — For  obstinate  cases 
take  half  a teaspoonful  of  golden  seal,  a piece  of  saleratus  the  size  of  a hazel- 
nut and  a tablespoonful  each  of  powdered  willow  charcoal  and  turkey  rhu- 
barb. Put  these  into  a tumblerful  of  water  and  let  stand  for  twelve  hours. 
Stir  and  take  a teaspoonful  every  four  hours  during  the  day. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Golden  seal  is  a little  binding,  charcoal  is  an  anti- 
septic and  rhubarb  is  laxative  and  rids  the  bowels  of  irritating  material  that 
is  so  often  the  cause  of  dysentery. 

7.  Eggs. — Beat  up  an  egg,  with  or  without  sugar,  and  take  it  at  a single 
gulp.  It  seems  to  form  a coating  on  the  stomach  and  intestines,  lessen 
inflammation  and  effect  a speedy  cure.  Two  or  three  taken  during  the 
day  is  generally  all  that  is  necessary. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  easily  digested  and  is  not  likely  to  irritate. 

8.  Elm  Bark,  Rhubarb,  Charcoal,  Salt  and  Yolk  of  Egg. — Take  pow- 
dered elm  bark,  rhubarb  and  charcoal,  of  each  half  an  ounce ; add  a table- 
spoonful of  common  salt  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  rub  the  whole  together 
in  a mortar  until  dry  and  reduced  to  a well-mixed  powder.  Dose — A tea- 
spoonful three  to  six  times  a day,  according  to  circumstances,  in  a little  water 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES.  69 

or  molasses.  Valuable  in  dysentery  or  flux  and  in  diarrhea.  It  seldom 
fails  to  cure. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  elm  bark  is  soothing,  the  rhubarb  is  laxa- 
tive, the  charcoal  is  antiseptic,  the  salt  is  astringent  or  binding  and  the  egg 
is  food. 

9.  Camphor,  Peppermint,  Red  Pepper,  Etc. — Take  one  ounce  each  of 
laudanum,  rhubarb,  tincture  of  camphor,  peppermint  and  red  pepper.  Give 
twenty  to  thirty  drops  every  half  hour  until  relieved. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  for  adults  onl}^ 

10.  Chickweed  Tea. — Steep  chickweed  and  drink  of  the  tea. 

11.  Hot  Fomentations,  Etc. — J\luch  relief  is  generally  obtained  from 
hot  fomentations  applied  to  the  bowels  by  means  of  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot 
water  and,  when  the  bearing  down  is  very  severe  and  produces  much  suf- 
fering, make  use  of  an  occasional  injection  of  twenty  drops  of  laudanum  to 
one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  starch  water  or  rice  water. 

12.  Oil  of  Fireweed. — Put  five  drops  of  oil  of  fireweed  on  sugar  and 
take  every  one  to  three  hours. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  very  good  and  you  will  notice  that  I have 
given  it  as  one  of  the  remedies  used  by  myself  and  other  doctors. 

13.  Mountain  Clove. — Use  a root  called  “ Mountain  Clove.”  Chew  the 
root  or  steep  it  and  drink  the  tea. 

14.  Hot  Herb  Tea. — Take  a weed  called  “ horse  tail  ” which  has  a long 
straight  ^talk  with  a feathery  leaf  and  a slightly  hot  taste.  Make  a tea  of 
this  and  drink  a teacupful  while  hot. 

15.  Pathweed  Tea. — Make  a tea  of  pathweed,  using  four  ounces  of  the 
plant  to  a pint  of  water,  and  take  two  ounces  at  a dose  tl.ree  or  four  times  a 
day.  This  is  the  dose  for  adults. 

SYPHILIS— POX— LUES.— (See  Chapter  for  Men.) 


TUBERCULOSIS. 

Description. — This  is  an  infectious  disease  in  which  there  is  local  in- 
flammation followed  by  the  development  of  dead  tissue.  Small  nodules, 
called  tubercles,  develop  and  these  have  the  appearance  of  gray,  white  or 
sometim.es  yellowish  bodies.  It  is  because  of  these  tubercles  that  the  name 
“ tuberculosis  ” is  given  to  this  disease. 

Causes. — The  disease  is  caused  by  the  tuberculosis  germs.  These  germs 
are  always  at  hand  and  are  constantly  being  taken  into  the  system  but  the 
tissues  of  the  body  are  not  always  in  the  right  condition  for  them  to  take 
hold  and  develop.  These  germs  are  taken  into  the  body  in  the  air  we 
breathe  and  in  the  food  we  eat.  Milk  from  cows  having  tuberculosis  is 
dangerous.  A person  may  also  accidentally  become  infected  by  the  germs 
getting  in  through  a sore  or  scratch  on  the  body  and  the  germs  also  gain 
admittance  through  the  tonsils  and  back  part  of  the  throat.  As  before 
stated  these  germs  are  constantly  being  taken  into  our  bodies,  most  com- 
monly by  breathing,  but  when  we  are  in  health  we  are  generally  able  to 
throw  them  off  or  at  least  the  conditions  are  not  favorable  for  their  growth 
and  development.  It  is  like  sowing  seeds  in  the  ground.  They  will  not 
grow  unless  the  conditions,  such  as  heat  and  moisture,  are  right.  The  germs 


70 


PEOPLE’S  PIOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


will  not  grow  in  onr  systems  unless  we  are  in  a weakened  condition  in  some 
way  or  in  some  part  of  the  body. 

Anything  which  weakens  our  vitality  or  impairs  our  health  makes  us 
more  likely  to  take  tuberculosis.  All  diseases  which  leave  us  in  a weakened 
condition  produce  favorable  conditions  for  these  germs  because  our  system 
is  not  then  able  to  throw  them  off  as  they  enter  the  body.  Pneumonia, 
catarrh,  grip,  measles  and  whooping  cough  are  particularly  likely  to  leave 
the  parts  affected  in  a weak  condition  and  render  them  more  subject  to 
tuberculosis.  Breathing  bad  air,  and  particularly  the  air  from  a poorly 
ventilated  room  where  many  people  are  crowded  together  or  the  dusty  air 
of  a city,  is  a source  of  great  danger.  The  lack  of  proper  exercise  allows 
the  lungs  to  become  weakened,  hence  the  blood  is  not  purified  and  our 
health  is  weakened  so  that  we  are  more  likely  to  take  this  disease.  Con- 
tinued heat  also  weakens  the  system  and  particularly  if  we  are  compelled 
at  the  same  time  to  breathe  impure  air.  Some  people  inherit  a weak  con- 
stitution and  are  thus  more  subject  to  the  disease  than  one  who  is  naturally 
robust. 

Age  also  has  something  to  do  with  it.  Children  under  ten  years  of  age 
frequently  have  tuberculosis  of  the  glands  and  bones  and  also  of  the  mem- 
branes of  the  brain.  After  the  age  of  puberty  the  lungs  are  the  most  fre- 
quently affected.  Tuberculosis  can  affect  almost  any  part  of  the  body.  It 
generally  affects  the  weakest  parts.  After  the  age  of  thirty-five  we  are  not 
so  likely  to  take  the  disease  and  after  the  age  of  fifty  a person  seldom  has 
it  unless  he  had  it  before  that  time.  It  affects  both  sexes  equally.  Certain 
occupations  such  as  stone  cutting,  knife  grinding,  mining,  weaving  and  all 
pursuits  which  cause  large  quantities  of  dust  to  enter  the  lungs  are  par- 
ticularly dangerous. 

We  will  first  take  up  the  symptoms  of  the  different  kinds  of  tuberculosis 
with  something  of  the  treatment  of  each  and  then  discuss  the  prevention 
and  general  treatment  of  the  disease  together  with  the  diet  to  be  allowed 
the  patient. 


Acute  Miliary  Tuberculosis. 

Description. — This  consists  of  innumerable  small  tubercles  in  the  lungs 
or  other  organs  affected. 

Cause. — The  tuberculosis  bacilli  or  germs  are  the  cause.  They  infect  the 
organs  and  cause  the  tubercles. 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  are  like  the  symptoms  of  typhoid  fever. 
The  poison  in  the  blood  causes  great  wretchedness  and  the  fever  runs  from 
102  to  103  degrees  every  morning.  The  pulse  is  rapid  and  there  is  often  a 
great  deal  of  sweating.  These  symptoms  appear  before  there  is  illness  in 
any  particular  part  of  the  body  to  explain  the  sickness.  The  fever  is  irregular 
and  can  be  lowered  by  sponging  with  cold  water.  In  both  of  these  respects 
it  is  unlike  typhoid  fever.  Also,  the  rose  spots  are  absent.  A careful  exam- 
ination of  the  lungs  shows  diseased  spots.  In  some  cases  it  comes  on  more 
suddenly.  The  patient  is  seized  with  a chill,  which  is  followed  by  high  fever 
or  a rapid  pulse.  There  is  much  sweating  and  great  weakness.  The  patient 
is  fearfully  thin.  The  tongue  is  dry  and  cheeks  flushed.  When  it  is 
miliary  tuberculosis  of  the  lungs,  the  lung  tissues  are  affected  and  there  are 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


71 


symptoms  of  acute  bronchitis.  The  patients  usually  die  in  from  one  to 
three  months.  The  disease  is  almost,  if  not  always,  fatal. 

Treatment. — Give  nourishing  food  and  stimulants.  Chloral  hydrate  and 
the  bromides  are  given  to  relieve  the  restlessness. 

Scrofula — Tuberculosis  of  the  Lymph  Glands. 

Description. — This  is  often  a very  mild  form  of  tuberculosis  and  but  a 
small  percentage  of  the  patients  die  with  it.  In  exceptional  cases  we  find 
nearly  all  the  lymph  glands  of  the  body  affected  while  other  parts  of  the 
body"  are  affected  but  little,  if  any.  We  will  treat  of  several  forms  of  this 
disease. 

Local  Tuberculosis — Adenitis  (Glands). 

1.  Cervical  or  Neck  Glands. — This  is  the  most  common  form  met  with 
in  children.  It  is  particularly  frequent  among  those  Avho  are  in  poor  circum- 
stances and  have  poor  surroundings.  The  enlarged  glands  are  commonly 
called  “ kernels.”  Sometimes  they  run  together  and  form  large  lumps. 
Matter  forms  and  runs  from  them  and  they  later  heal  up  and  leave  a scar. 

2.  Trachea-Bronchial. — The  glands  of  the  windpipe  and  bronchial 
tubes  sometimes  become  large  and  press  very  much  upon  the  blood  vessels 
of  the  chest  and  also  upon  the  nerves.  Sometimes  they  burst  into  other 
organs  like  the  gullet  or  they  may  infect  the  lungs  and  pleura.  They  also 
frequently  cause  pericarditis  by  coming  in  contact  with  or  breaking  into  the 
membrane  which  surrounds  the  heart.  They  become  very  dangerous  when 
they  infect  the  whole  system  through  the  blood  vessels. 

3.  Mesenteric,  or  “ Tabes  Mesenterica.” — The  mesentery  is  the  struc- 
ture which  is  intertwined  among  the  intestines.  This  disease  was  called 
“ abdominal  scrofula  ” by  the  old  writers.  The  glands  in  the  membrane 
between  and  around  the  bowels  become  enlarged  and  cheesy  and  occasionally 
they  form  matter  and  become  hard.  Upon  examination  after  death  a slight 
form  of  this  disease  is  often  found  in  children  who  have  died  of  other 
diseases.  The  disease  is  very  common  in  children  and  seriously  interferes 
with  nutrition  so  that  the  little  ones  become  puny,  wasted  and  bloodless. 
The  abdomen  is  enlarged  and  bloated,  there  is  constant  diarrhea  and  the 
stools  are  thin  and  have  a bad  odor.  General  wasting  away  and  weakness  are 
the  most  characteristic  features.  Children  with  this  disease  are  improperlv 
said  to  have  consumption  of  the  bowels.  In  adults  it  may  occur  alone  or  in 
connection  with  lung  disease. 

Water  on  the  Brain — Tubercular  Meningitis — Basilar  Meningitis. 

Description. — This  is  also  known  as  acute  hydrocephalus.  It  is  really 
an  acute  tuberculosis  in  which  the  membranes  of  the  brain  and  sometimes 
the  spinal  cord  are  mostly  affected.  It  is  much  more  common  in  children 
than  in  adults.  It  rarely  occurs  during  the  first  year  but  is  more  frequent 
between  the  second  and  fifth  years.  In  a majority  of  cases  old  tuberculous 
trouble  in  the  bronchial  and  mesenteric  glands  is  found. 

Symptoms. — There  has  been  failing  health  for  several  weeks  or  the  child 
may  be  getting  over  measles  or  whooping  cough.  Sometimes  it  has  prev- 
iously had  a bad  fall.  The  child  is  listless,  peevish,  irritable  and  has  lost  its 


PEOPLE’S  PIOME  MEDICAL  BOOK 


72 


appetite.  The  symptoms  pointing  to  the  disease  may  then  set  in  suddenly 
with  convulsions,  or  more  commonly  with  headache,  vomiting  and  fever.  The 
pain  may  be  intense  and  agonizing.  The  child  puts  its  hand  to  its  head  and 
gives  a sharp  sudden  cry  and  sometimes  screams.  It  is  usually  constipated 
and  there  is  slight  fever  which  gradually  rises  to  102  or  103  degrees.  The  pulse 
is  rapid  at  first  but  later  becomes  irregular  and  slow.  During  sleep  the  child 
is  restless  and  disturbed  with  twitching  of  the  muscles  and  sudden  start- 
ings, or  it  may  wake  up  in  great  terror.  In  the  early  stages  the  pupils  of 
the  eyes  are  contracted.  The  first  stage  is  the  stage  of  irritation. 

During  the  second  stage  of  the  disease  these  symptoms  disappear.  The 
abdomen  (or  belly)  is  drawn  in,  the  bowels  are  constipated,  the  child  is  dull, 
and  when  aroused  is  more  or  less  delirious.  The  head  is  often  drawn  back 
or  to  the  side  and  the  child  utters  an  occasional  cry.  The  pupils  are  en- 
larged or  irregular  and  a squint  may  develop.  Convulsions  may  come  on  or 
the  muscles  of  one  side  or  limb  may  become  rigid.  During  the  last  period 
or  stage  of  paralysis  the  stupor,  or  deep  drowsiness,  increases  and  the  child 
cannot  be  aroused.  Convulsions  are  rather  frequent  and  there  is  a sudden 
drawing  up  of  the  muscles  of  the  back  and  neck  or  the  spasms  may  occur 
on  one  side  only.  The  pupils  are  enlarged,  the  eyelids  partly  closed  and  there 
is  rolling  of  the  eyeballs.  There  may  be  diarrhea,  the  pulse  is  rapid  and  the 
child  sinks  gradually  away.  The  disease  lasts  from  2 to  4 weeks.  It  is 
fatal  in  most  cases. 

Tuberculosis  of  the  Pleura — Acute  Tuberculosis  of  the  Pleura. 

The  acute  kinds  are  rarely  fatal.  The  secondary  kind  is  very  common 
and  frequently  occurs  when  there  is  tuberculosis  of  the  lungs. 

Tuberculosis  of  the  Pericardium. 

This  may  be  primary  or  it  may  be  secondary  from  other  affected  parts. 
It  is  not  so  common  as  tuberculosis  of  the  pleura  and  peritoneum. 

Tuberculosis  of  the  Peritoneum. 

It  frequently  occurs  in  connection  with  miliary  and  chronic  tuberculosis 
of  the  lungs  but  may  occur  in  itself  apart  from  other  organs.  People  of  all 
ages  are  subject  to  it  and  it  is  common  in  children  with  bowel  and  mesen- 
teric disease. 

Symptoms. — It  is  very  difficult  to  distinguish  this  disease.  When  it 
comes  on  slowly  the  symptoms  resemble  typhoid  fever.  There  is  frequently 
some  bloating  or  dropsy  of  the  abdomen  or  belly.  Wind-dropsy,  or  tym- 
panites, may  also  be  present.  Sometimes  the  fever  is  slight  but  in  acute 
cases  it  is  often  103  to  104  degrees.  The  physician  may  use  the  tuberculosis 
test  in  this  disease. 

Galloping  Consumption — Acute  Pneumonic  Tuberculosis  of  the  Lungs. 

This  is  met  with  both  in  children  and  adults.  There  are  two  types — 
Pneumonic  and  Broncho-Pneumonic. 

Symptoms  of  Pneumonic  Form. — The  symptoms  are  somewhat  like  pneu- 
monia but  between  the  8th  and  10th  days  instead  of  getting  better  they  be- 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


73 


come  worse.  The  fever  is  irregular,  the  pulse  more  rapid,  there  is  spitting 
of  mucus  and  pus  and  there  may  be  sweating.  Signs  occur  indicating  soften- 
ing of  the  lungs  and  death  may  occur  even  in  the  second  or  third  week  and 
before  softening  of  the  lungs.  In  other  cases  the  upper  part  of  the  lungs 
is  destroyed  and  the  case  may  drag  along  for  two  or  three  months  or  it 
may  become  a case  of  common  consumption. 

Symptoms  of  Broncho-Pneumonic  Form  or  Capillary  Bronchitis. — This 
is  more  common  in  children  and  forms  the  majority  of  the  cases  of  gallop- 
ing consumption.  The  symptoms  vary  greatly  in  different  cases.  In  chil- 
dren the  disease  is  most  likely  to  follow  some  infectious  disease  like  measles 
or  whooping  cough.  The  child  may  be  taken  suddenly  ill  while  teething 
or  when  recovering  from  the  attack  of  some  fever.  The  fever  rises  rapidly, 
the  cough  is  severe  and  a rattling  breathing  is  noticed  at  one  or  both  points 
of  the  lungs.  Or  the  child  may  be  taken  ill  when  getting  better  from  some 
other  infectious  disease.  There  will  be  fever,  coughing  and  shortness  of 
breath.  These  symptoms  lessen  within  two  weeks.  There  is  loss  of  flesh 
and  the  general  condition  is  bad.  The  child  has  sweats,  the  fever  becomes 
hectic,  that  is,  a hectic,  or  red  spot  appears  on  the  cheeks  and  the  child  has 
the  usual  consumptive  look. 

Chronic  Ulcerative  Tuberculosis  of  the  Lungs. 

Physical  examination  shows  the  parts  that  are  affected.  There  is  a 
hardness  of  the  lungs  and  they  contain  cavities. 

Symptoms. — There  may  be  a troublesome  pain  early  in  the  disease  or  this 
may  be  absent.  The  cough  is  one  of  the  earliest  symptoms  and  is  present 
in  the  majority  of  cases  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  the  disease.  The 
sputum,  or  spit,  varies  greatly  but  it  contains  the  bacilli  or  germs.  There  is 
often  hemorrhage  or  spitting  of  blood  from  the  lungs.  This  is  called  “ Hemop- 
tysis.” There  is  fever  and  difficult  breathing.  The  sweating  is  distressing 
and  weakening. 

Tuberculosis  of  the  Liver. 

This  does  not  occur  alone  but  as  a part  of  a general  miliary  tuberculosis. 

Tuberculosis  of  the  Joints  and  Spine. 

These  will  be  treated  in  another  place. 


THE  TREATMENT  OF  TUBERCULOSIS. 

Preventive  Treatment. — A person  with  tuberculosis  should  expectorate 
(spit)  into  cloths  or  into  paper  spitting  cups  and  then  before  the  sputum  or 
spit  dries  these  should  be  burned.  The  sputum  or  spit  can  only  spread  the 
disease  when  it  is  dry.  Sunlight,  nourishing  food  and  outdoor  life  are  the 
best  preventives.  Breathe  plenty  of  fresh  air  and  especially  should  the 
sleeping  room  be  well  ventilated.  A boy  or  girl  who  is  weak  and  sickly 
looking  should  be  in  the  open  air  most  of  the  time.  Girls,  at  the  time  their 
menses  are  beginning,  should  take  all  the  care  possible  to  keep  themselves 
strong  and  healthy  and  especially  if  there  has  been  any  tuberculosis  in  the 


74 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK 


family.  Sunshine  and  air  make  people  strong.  In  the  tenement  districts 
of  our  cities  many  people  are  crowded  into  a few  rooms  that  often  are  dirty 
and  unventilated  and  oftentimes  eight  or  ten  or  more  sleep  in  one  small 
room  with  scarcely  any  ventilation.  Their  food  is  unwholesome  and  often 
small  in  quantity  and  yet  many  of  them  have  to  work  all  day  and  part  of 
the  night  for  even  such  a living  as  this.  Such  conditions  are  particularly 
favorable  for  the  development  of  tuberculosis  or  consumption.  To  crowd 
too  many  children  into  a school  building  is  poor  policy  and  to  overwork  them 
is  just  as  bad  and  especially  when  it  is  considered  that  many  of  them  are 
improperly  nourished.  I once  knew  of  a young  man  who  was  ambitious 
for  an  education  but  the  only  way  to  get  it  was  to  earn  it  himself.  He  was 
apparently  the  picture  of  health  and  was  much  stronger  than  the  average 
college  student.  He  loaded  himself  down  with  studies  and  after  school  hours 
and  on  Saturdays  he  worked  at  hard  manual  labor  to  earn  money  for  him- 
self and  for  his  people  at  home  whom  he  had  to  help  support.  His  lessons  were 
read  at  night  and  in  some  way  he  also  managed  to  take  music  lessons  as 
he  was  naturally  a fine  singer.  He  seldom  got  more  than  five  or  six  hours 
sleep  and  often  not  that  while  doing  the  hardest  kind  of  mental  and  physical 
labor.  Often  but  a sandwich  or  a few  crackers  made  up  his  meal  and  some- 
times he  would  skip  a meal.  Within  one  year  from  this  time  his  school 
mates  and  teachers  were  very  much  surprised  and  pained  to  learn  that  he 
had  been  sent  home  to  die  with  consumption.  Learning  is  worth  getting  but 
we  can  pay  too  high  a price  for  even  an  education. 

Then,  if  you  would  prevent  consumption,  live  in  the  open  air  and  sun- 
shine as  much  as  possible,  take  at  least  enough  exercise  to  keep  healthy,  have 
plenty  of  ventilation  in  your  houses  and  especially  in  the  sleeping  rooms,  eat 
plenty  of  nourishing  food  and  do  not  break  down  your  health  with  work, 
worry  or  bad  habits. 

General  Treatment. — With  nourishing  foods  and  proper  conditions  make 
the  patient  grow  fat  and  the  local  disease  will  take  care  of  itself.  Place  the 
patient  where  he  will  get  plenty  of  nourishing  food  and  where  the  surround- 
ings will  be  as  pleasant  and  cheerful  as  possible.  Give  proper  open  air 
treatment.  Live  out  door  in  the  fresh  air  and  sunshine  and  sleep  in  a tent 
or  with  the  windows  open  so  as  to  allow  plenty  of  fresh  air.  Go  to  a tuber- 
culosis sanitarium  if  you  can  or  go  to  a climate  where  the  temperature  is 
even  and  the  atmosphere  pure.  Have  plenty  of  fresh  air,  sunshine  and  a 
nourishing  diet.  Milk,  eggs,  cereals,  beef,  etc.,  are  good  foods  if  they  agree 
with  the  patient. 

We  herewith  give  a nourishing  diet  for  tuberculosis  patients.  It  may 
be  varied  to  suit  the  individual  case. 


DIET  FOR  TUBERCULOSIS  PATIENT. 

Breakfast. — Sip  a cupful  of  hot  milk  in  the  morning  before  rising;  rest 
in  bed  for  15  to  20  minutes ; then  bathe  or  be  bathed  and  clothed  by  another. 
For  breakfast  eat  wheaten  grits,  oatmeal  or  some  other  cereal.  If  the  appe- 
tite is  good  a tender  chop  or  small  piece  of  steak  may  be  eaten.  Tea  or 
coffee  may  be  drank  unless  they  make  the  patient  nervous.  An  orange  or 
some  other  fruit  may  be  eaten  if  desired.  The  patient  should  not  eat  so 
much  as  to  make  the  meal  lay  heavy  on  the  stomach. 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


75 


Half  way  between  breakfast  and  the  mid-day  meal  he  should  eat  a liffht 
luncheon  consisting  of  a cup  of  broth,  a piece  of  toast,  a glass  of  koumyss 
or  a sandwich  made  with  scraped  beef  or,  if  he  tires  of  this,  a sandwich  made 
with  toast  and  either  anchovy  or  caviar  may  be  substituted.  Often  an  egg, 
either  raw  or  cooked,  may  be  taken  between  meals  with  advantage.  If 
desired,  a glass  of  sherry  or  some  red  wine  may  also  be  taken  at  this  time 
or,  in  its  place,  some  Scotch  or  rye  whisky  may  be  given. 

Dinner. — This  should  be  the  heaviest  meal  and  should  be  eaten  between 
12  and  2 o’clock.  Some  nutritious  and  somewhat  stimulating  soup  that  is 
easily  digested  may  be  eaten  first.  This  may  be  followed  with  a small  piece 
of  fresh  fish  and  then  by  a hearty  course  of  any  one  of  the  roasts  or  broiled 
meats  accompanied  by  two  or  three  wholesome  vegetables  such  as  potatoes, 
string  beans,  asparagus,  spinach,  carrots,  etc.,  and  also  macaroni  or  similar 
foods.  Particularly  if  the  patient  is  accustomed  to  stimulants  with  his  meals, 
a little  sherry  wine  or  whiskey  and  water  may  be  taken.  Cornstarch  or  rice 
pudding  or  some  similar  dessert  may  also  be  eaten. 

During  the  afternoon  a light  luncheon  similar  to  the  forenoon  lunch 
may  be  taken  two  or  three  hours  after  dinner. 

Evening  Meal. — This  should  be  a light  meal  consisting  of  arrowroot,  or 
an  egg  cooked  in  some  simple  way,  or  a few  stewed  oysters  or  milk  toast. 

Again,  before  going  to  bed  at  night,  a cup  of  broth,  a glass  of  koumyss, 
a cup  of  hot  milk  or  some  curds  and  whey  may  be  taken. 

This  diet  is  intended  for  a person  with  good  digestion. 


MEDICINES  FOR  TUBERCULOSIS. 

For  the  Blood. — Arsenic  may  be  given  in  small  doses  in  the  form  oi 
Fowler's  solution  of  arsenic.  Give  5 drops,  four  times  a day. 

For  the  Heart. — If  necessary,  give  tincture  of  digitalis  in  2 or  3 drop 
doses,  3 times  a day. 

For  the  Night  Sweats. — Give  from  15  to  20  grains  of  camphoric  acid  2 
or  3 hours  before  the  time  for  the  sweat.  Or,  in  its  place,  give  1/120  of  a 
grain  of  atropine. 

For  the  Fever. — Sponge  with  tepid  or  warm  water  and  alcohol. 

For  the  Cough. — If  necessary,  give  from  1/24  to  1/16  of  a grain  of 
heroin  3 or  4 times  in  24  hours.  If  the  cough  is  dry  and  irritable  use  the 
steam  kettle.  Put  from  i/2  to  1 dram  each  of  creosote,  oil  of  pine  and  oil 
of  eucalyptus  into  a teakettle  of  hot  water  and  let  the  patient  inhale  the 
steam.  One  end  of  a roll  of  paper  may  be  put  over  the  spout  of  the  kettle 
and  the  patient  may  breathe  through  the  nose  and  mouth  from  the  other  end. 

For  the  Vomiting. — If  the  stomach  is  irritated  give  from  2 to  5 grains 
of  subnitrate  of  bismuth  and  1 to  2 grains  of  oxalate  of  cerium  an  hour  before 
meals.  If  the  stomach  is  depressed  give  1 to  2 drops  of  Fowler’s  solution 
of  arsenic  before  meals. 

For  the  Bleeding  from  the  Lungs.  (Haemoptysis.) — If  the  patient  is 
much  frightened  give  a hypodermic  injection  of  % of  a grain  of  morphine. 

Treatment  of  the  Cervical  Glands. — Surgeons  advise  cutting  them  out 
but  in  many  cases  this  is  not  necessary.  The  homeopathic  treatment  is  by 
use  of  the  6th  trituration  of  Calcarea  Garb.  Give  2 tablets  four  times  a 
day.  I know  this  to  be  good  for  I have  often  used  it  with  success. 


76 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CONSUMPTION  AND  ITS  AT- 
TENDING AILMENTS  — 

1.  Blood  Root,  Wild  Cherry,  Etc. — Take  tincture  of  blood  root  and 
muriate  of  ammonia,  of  each  1 dram ; fluid  extract  of  wild  cherry,  3 drams ; 
and  infusion  of  licorice,  % pint.  Mix  and  give  a tablespoonful  every  two 
hours. 

2.  For  the  Bleeding  from  the  Lungs. — Give  a little  salt  water  or  a 
tea  made  of  equal  parts  of  bugle  weed  and  beth  root. 

3.  For  the  Cough. — An  excellent  remedy  is  a tea  made  from  the  leaves 
of  white  horehound  and  sweetened  with  honey. 

4.  For  the  Cough. — Teas  made  from  flaxseed,  quince  seed,  slippery 
elm  or  marshmallow  will  prove  excellent  for  the  cough. 

5.  Cod  Liver  Oil. — A tablespoonful  or  more  three  times  a day,  is  a 
treatment  used  a great  deal  by  physicians. 

6.  For  Scrofula. — Take  one  ounce  of  the  dried  or  two  ounces  of  fresh 
yellow  dock  root  and  boil  in  a pint  of  water.  This  may  be  taken  in  2 ounce 
doses  as  often  as  the  stomach  will  bear.  The  skin  may  also  be  bathed  with 
this  tea.  This  is  a very  effective  remedy  for  scrofula. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Yellow  dock  root  is  very  good  for  the  blood. 

7.  For  Scrofula. — Take  one  part  of  finely  powdered  saltpeter,  and  two 
parts  each  of  licorice  root,  sulphur  and  cream  of  tartar ; mix  with  honey  until  it 
is  like  mud.  Take  a teaspoonful  before  each  meal  for  three  days,  then  leave 
off  for  three  days,  and  so  continue  until  cured.  If  the  bowels  are  too  loose 
after  taking  the  first  three  days,  then  reduce  the  dose  one  half.  This  treat- 
ment has  effected  some  remarkable  cures  after  other  remedies  had  failed. 

8.  For  White  Swelling  and  Scrofula. — Boil  in  a little  water  a good 
sized  handful  each  of  the  bruised  roots  and  twigs  of  bitter  sweet,  the  inner 
bark  of  sweet  elder,  and  mullein  leaves ; add  half  a handful  of  golden  seal  root, 
two  rounded  teaspoonfuls  of  mutton  tallow  and  the  same  quantity  of  fresh 
unsalted  butter.  Stew  these  together  until  dry,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 
Strain,  put  back  on  the  stove  and  add  a tablespoonful  of  beeswax  and  half 
a tablespoonful  of  pine  pitch.  Spread  on  a cloth  and  apply  to  white  swelling 
or  put  on  cotton  and  apply  to  the  sores  of  scrofula. 

Physician’s  Remark. — White  swelling  is  tuberculosis  of  the  knee  joint 


TYPHOID  FEVER. 

Enteric  Fever. 

Description. — This  is  an  acute  infectious  disease  formerly  called  “ En- 
teric Fever  ” because  the  bowels  are  so  much  involved. 

Causes. — It  is  caused  by  the  entrance  into  the  body  of  a certain  germ 
known  to  doctors  as  the  bacillus  typhosus.  These  germs  gain  entrance 
through  the  month,  stomach  and  intestines.  They  are  frequently  taken  into 
the  system  by  drinking  infected  milk  or  milk  that  has  been  “ watered  ” with 
impure  water  or  cooled  with  infected  ice.  The  freezing  of  the  water  in  which 
the  germs  are  found  does  not  kill  the  germs.  Water  which  comes  from 
wells  near  cess  pools  or  from  shallow  wells  or  wells  that  have  not  been 
cleaned  for  a long  time  o^  water  which  comes  from  rivers  where  the  garbage 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


77 


of  a city  is  emptied  is  very  likely  to  be  contaminated  and  cause  typhoid  fever 
if  a person  is  in  the  right  condition  to  take  it.  Partially  decayed  vegetables, 
meats,  oysters  or  clams  are  also  likely  to  be  swarming  with  the  germs.  Flies 
lighting  upon  the  discharges  from  a typhoid  fever  patient,  if  the  discharges 
have  not  been  disinfected,  very  frequently  carry  the  germs  to  pure  food  and 
thus  spread  the  disease.  Another  source  of  typhoid  fever  is  in  decaying 
vegetables  in  cellars  or  cellars  where  the  drains  are  stopped  up  and  water 
is  allowed  to  stand. 

SYMPTOMS. — This  disease  affects  males  more  than  females  and  is  most 
frequent  in  August,  September  and  October.  The  germs  may  be  found  in 
every  organ  of  the  body.  The  small  bowels  and  their  glands  are  generally 
the  organs  most  affected.  The  disease  is  generally  from  1 to  3 weeks  in 
coming  on.  It  usually  begins  with  a feeling  or  sense  of  general  wretchedness 
and  general  illness  with  no  particular  symptoms  being  well  marked  unless 
it  be  the  aching  of  the  forehead  and  of  the  back  and  limbs.  The  expression 
of  the  face  shows  sickness  very  early  in  the  disease.  The  patient  becomes 
listless  and  later  heavy  and  stupid  and  often  a little  deaf.  Frequently  there 
is  considerable  coughing  without  spitting  up  anything.  The  tongue  is  coated 
in  the  center  but  clean  and  red  at  the  edges.  There  is  headache,  thirst,  sleep- 
lessness, and  a mild  fever  develops  and  nose  bleed  may  occur  repeatedly. 
There  is  quite  a bit  of  gurgling  in  the  lower  right  part  of  the  abdomen. 
There  is  usually  constipation  during  the  first  week  but  on  the  other  hand 
there  may  be  looseness  of  the  bowels  instead. 

Fever. — The  temperature  rises  step  by  step ; each  morning  it  is  higher 
than  the  morning  before  and  each  evening  higher  than  the  evening  before. 
For  example,  the  first  morning  it  may  be  99  and  in  the  evening  100 ; the 
second  morning  it  may  be  991/2  and  in  the  evening  101% ; the  third  morning 
it  may  be  100%  and  in  the  evening  102%,  etc.  Usually  by  the  end  of  the  first 
week  the  fever  reaches  102  or  103  in  the  mornings  and  103  or  104  in 
the  evenings  and  remains  at  this  level  until  the  14th  or  21st  day.  At  this 
time  the  pulse  is  more  rapid  and  varies  from  90  to  100  and  may  go  up  to 
110  or  higher. 

Rose  Spots. — These  develop  about  the  7th  to  the  9th  day  and  appear  on 
the  skin  of  the  abdomen  and  chest. 

Later  Symptoms. — The  tongue  becomes  dry  and  cracked,  the  stupor  or 
drowsiness  is  more  marked,  the  bowels  become  looser  and  the  bloating  of  the 
abdomen,  or  belly,  is  more  noticeable.  Usually,  at  the  end  of  the  second  week 
the  disease  is  at  its  height.  If  the  patient  has  had  little  attention  or  if  it 
is  a severe  case  it  will  continue  another  week  or  longer.  During  the  third 
week  there  is  more  diarrhea  and  bloating  and  a deeper  drowsiness.  There 
is  shaking  of  the  muscles  and  jerking  of  the  tendons.  The  skin  is  dry  and 
harsh  and  the  patient  is  very  thin.  If  the  disease  is  not  so  severe  these 
symptoms  may  decrease  at  any  time  between  the  14th  and  28th  days.  The 
fever  and  pulse  then  gradually  go  down  and  there  are  general  symptoms  of 
getting  better.  This  is  a typical  case. 

In  some  cases  the  diarrhea  is  very  bad.  In  others  there  is  greater  bloat- 
ing and  soreness  of  the  bowels.  Sometimes  the  tongue  and  mouth  look  very 
bad.  The  blood  poisoning  is  very  severe  in  some  cases  as  shown  by  the 
symptoms.  Sometimes  the  tongue  is  very  much  swollen,  coated  and  cracked 
and  sticks  to  the  mouth  or  turns  down  on  the  lips  so  that  it  is  very  difficult 
for  the  patient  to  put  out  his  tongue  and  sometimes  when  it  is  out  the  patient 


78 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK 


is  too  stupid  to  draw  it  in  again.  The  delirium  is  either  mild  or  active  accord- 
ing to  the  case.  The  patient  is  said  to  be  delirious  or  “ out  of  his  head.” 
Bleeding  from  the  bowels  is  a dangerous  symptom.  The  bowels  are  very 
thin  and  ulcerated  and  may  be  easily  torn  or  ruptured. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Disinfect  all  discharges  from  the  patient.  The  vessels  which 
receive  the  discharges  from  the  bowels  and  urine  should  contain  a carbolic 
acid  solution,  1 part  of  acid  to  20  parts  of  water;  or,  a solution  of  corrosive 
sublimate,  1 part  corrosive  sublimate  to  2,000  parts  of  water.  A heaping  tea- 
spoonful of  chloride  of  lime  may  also  be  used  to  a pint  of  water.  Disinfect 
everything  that  has  been  in  contact  with  the  patient.  The  hands  of  the 
nurse  should  frequently  be  disinfected.  See  that  all  drinking  water  is  boiled. 
To  prevent  taking  the  disease,  read  up  on  the  causes  and  avoid  them. 

“ What  to  Do.” — Disinfect  all  discharges  and  everything  that  comes  in 
contact  with  the  patient.  Always  use  a bed  pan  when  the  patient  stools  or 
passes  water  as  getting  up  may  rupture  the  bowels  which  are  very  thin  at  this 
time.  Give  the  very  best  of  nursing,  be  very  careful  of  the  diet,  boil  all  drink- 
ing water  and  follow  all  instructions  of  the  doctor  very  carefully. 

“ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  let  the  patient  take  cold  or  some  of  the 
serious  after  effects  like  bronchitis  or  pneumonia  may  be  the  result.  Do 
not  allow  the  patient  to  get  up  for  any  purpose  or  the  bowels  may  be  rup- 
tured. Do  not  give  solid  foods  until  two  or  three  weeks  after  the  patient 
has  recovered.  Do  not  allow  your  sympathies  or  the  pleadings  of  the  pa- 
tient to  persuade  you  to  depart  from  this  rule  or  death  may  be  the  result. 

Avoid  too  much  strong  medicine.  Stimulants  may  be  given  if  the  pulse 
is  very  weak  and  the  first  heart  sound  distant  and  feeble.  Half  an  ounce  of 
whiskey  or  brandy  may  be  given  in  a little  water  or  milk  every  3 to  6 hours 
if  needed. 

Constipation. — Relieve  this  with  injections  of  soap  and  water.  In  obsti- 
nate cases  add  to  this  from  1 to  2 teaspoonfuls  of  glycerine. 

Diarrhea. — If  this  is  excessive,  that  is,  if  there  is  more  than  3 or  4 stools 
a day,  give  from  5 to  10  drop  doses  of  aromatic  sulphuric  acid  in  simple 
elixir  or  in  boiled  water. 

Bloating. — To  the  abdomen,  or  belly,  apply  cloths  wrung  out  of  water 
containing  a little  turpentine.  If  possible,  apply  these  before  much  gas  has 
accumulated  and  if  the  bloating  continues  give  an  injection  of  emulsion  of 
asafeetida  either  with  or  without  a dram  of  turpentine  added. 

Bleeding  from  the  Bowels. — Apply  hot  water  bottles  to  keep  up  the  heat 
of  the  body  and  give  a pint  of  normal  salt  solution  under  the  skin.  This  may 
be  given  once,  twice  or  three  times  during  the  next  24  hours  if  needed. 

Bed  Sores. — Keep  the  parts  clean  and  dry  and  bathe  with  alcohol. 

Curds  in  Stools. — When  curds  appear  in  the  stools,  lessen  the  quantity 
of  milk;  or,  it  should  be  peptonized  or  its  digestion  aided  by  the  use  of 
pancreatin  after  it  is  taken. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Unless  the  bowels  have  moved  give  % grain 
doses  of  calomel  every  hour  until  1 to  2 grains  have  been  taken.  If  the 
bowels  are  not  moved  in  12  hours  give  a large  injection  of  soap  and  water 
and  a seidlitz  powder  if  needed.  Twelve  hours  later  give  from  5 to  10  drops 
of  dilute  hydrochloric  acid  with  a teaspoonful  of  essence  of  pepsin  and  repeat 
this  every  six  hours,  after  giving  food,  throughout  the  disease. 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


79 


Nursing. — A typhoid  fever  case  must  be  watched  carefully  from  begin- 
ning to  end.  Bleeding  from  the  bowels  is  an  alarming  symptom.  It  shows 
that  the  disease  has  eaten  through  the  lining  of  the  bowels  to  the  small  blood 
vessels.  It  is  not  necessarily  fatal  but  it  needs  close  attention.  A fall  of 
several  degrees  in  the  fever  should  arouse  suspicion  that  the  bowels  are 
much  ulcerated  and  are  bleeding.  This  fall  in  the  fever  is  often  the  first 
symptom.  Either  during  or  after  an  attack  of  typhoid  the  patient  may  have 
hemorrhage  or  bleeding  from  the  bowels ; or,  he  may  have  heart,  stomach 
or  liver  troubles  or  bronchitis  or  pneumonia  and  symptoms  of  these  should  be 
carefully  watched  for. 

A doctor,  a friend  of  mine,  was  attending  a case  of  typhoid  fever.  He 
warned  the  woman  not  to  get  out  of  bed  for  any  purpose  as  it  might  cause 
bleeding  from  the  bowels.  His  orders  were  disobeyed  and  the  woman  got 
up  to  use  the  vessel.  A hemorrhage  of  the  bowels  was  the  result  and  the 
patient  was  dead  before  the  doctor  could  arrive.  No  comment  is  needed. 

If  the  fever  rises  to  1021/2  degrees  the  patient  is  to  be  rubbed  with 
either  tepid,  cool,  cold,  or  ice  water.  Or  even  a piece  of  ice  may  be  used. 
Give  a brisk  rub-off  if  the  poisoning  is  very  great,  not  so  much  to  reduce  the 
fever  as  to  cause  reaction  and  arouse  the  vitality  of  the  patient.  With  this 
application  of  cold,  in  different  degrees  according  to  the  needs  of  the  case, 
rub  the  skin  actively  as  the  cold  comes  in  contact  with  it  because  friction 
increases  the  loss  of  heat  by  one  half  and  aids  in  causing  reaction  and  a 
more  equal  circulation  of  the  skin  and  also  prevents  the  patient  from  being 
chilled.  There  are  other  ways  of  bathing.  Some  put  the  patient  in  a 
bath  tub. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — The  diet  is  very  important  in  this  disease.  It  should 
be  a milk  diet  for  the  first  week  and  often  for  most  of  the  second  week.  From 
a quart  to  a quart  and  a half  a day  may  be  given.  Give  a little  every  three 
or  fours  hours  and  follow  with  the  acid  and  pepsin  before  mentioned  unless 
the  stomach  is  irritable  when  a little  lime  water  may  be  given  instead,  or  a 
little  celestin  vichy  may  be  used.  When  the  milk  is  digested  with  difficulty, 
add  to  it  some  hot  water  or  dilute  it  with  carbonated  water  or  water  con- 
taining a little  baking  soda.  If  the  taste  is  unpleasant  to  the  patient  it  may 
be  flavored  with  vanilla  or  nutmeg.  Coffee,  tea  or  cocoa  in  very  small 
arhounts  may  sometimes  be  given.  After  the  first  week  or  ten  days,  some 
patients  may  be  allowed  from  one  to  two  soft  boiled  eggs  each  day,  so  soft 
that  they  can  better  be  taken  as  a drink  than  eaten  with  a spoon.  A little 
salt  should  be  added.  Well  boiled  rice  strained  through  a fine  sieve,  and  even 
cornstarch  or  strained  barley  gruel,  if  well  cooked,  may  be  given  at  this  time 
with  advantage,  particularly,  if  at  the  same  time  a little  taka-diastase  is  used  to 
aid  their  digestion.  Broths  and  meat  soups  are  not  advisable  as  they  often 
tend  to  increase  the  bloating. 

A typhoid  fever  patient  is  going  to  be  sick  for  several  weeks  and  you 
need  to  "keep  up  his  strength  by  the  use  of  food  and  bathing.  Milk  is  gener- 
ally the  best  food  when  given  as  directed  above.  Keep  visitors  out  of  the 
sick  room,  do  not  talk  much  and  never  whisper  when  near  the  patient.  It  is 
better  to  talk  in  a low  tone  than  to  whisper.  Keep  the  teeth  and  mouth 
clean.  You  may  need  to  clean  them  several  times  a day.  Wrap  a soft 
cloth  around  your  finger,  dip  into  water  and  gently  clean  the  teeth  and 
mouth.  The  patient’s  mouth  and  tongue  are  always  dry  and  especially  when 
the  mouth  is  kept  open  and  should  then  be  frequently  cleaned  with  a wet 


80 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


cloth  or  a little  water  should  often  be  .e^iven  him.  You  can  bathe  him  under 
the  bedding  and  with  cool  water  if  he  can  stand  it.  Wring  out  the  cloth  or 
sponge  so  it  will  not  drip  water  and  bathe  part  of  his  body  at  a time  and  then 
dry.  Keep  the  patient  quiet  and  never  let  him  get  up  to  use  the  bed  pan.  If 
there  is  bleeding  send  for  the  doctor  at  once. 

Follow  the  directions  given  as  to  food  and  when  the  patient  is  getting 
better  never  30‘eld  to  his  pleadings  for  more  food.  Follow  the  doctor’s  ad- 
vice and  give  no  solid  food  for  some  weeks  after  the  fever  is  all  gone.  I never 
shall  forget  a minister  who  died  of  typhoid  fever  in  my  old  home  town.  He 
was  about  well  and  one  day  while  yet  in  bed  he  told  the  doctor  that  he 
wanted  an  old  fashioned  “ boiled  dinner.”  The  doctor  refused  to  give  his 
consent  to  this,  saying  it  would  kill  him.  But  the  home  people  listened  to  the 
pleadings  of  the  minister  after  the  doctor  had  left  and  finally  yielded  to  his 
persuasions.  The  minister  got  his  “ boiled  dinner  ” and  in  a few  days  he  was 
a dead  minister.  I was  very  young  then  and  could  not  understand  for  many 
years  why  God  should  have  taken  that  good  man.  The  case  was  similar  to 
the  one  I have  previously  related  of  the  child  that  ate  green  apples  and 
died  of  cholera  infantum.  It  was  not  God  but  the  “ boiled  dinner  ” that  killed 
the  minister. 

I had  carried  a very  bad  case  of  typhoid  fever  in  a young  lady  through 
five  long  weary  weeks  and  the  patient  was  recovering  nicely  so  that  I was 
then  visiting  her  every  second  or  third  day  only.  One  Sunday  evening  I was 
hastil}"  called  to  her  home  and  found  that  she  was  “ flighty.”  She  imagined 
that  she  saw  flies  and  all  sorts  of  creatures  on  the  walls  and  ceiling.  I asked 
for  the  cause  of  this  but  the  family  could  not  account  for  it  and  said  they 
had  disobe}^ed  none  of  my  instructions.  I knew,  however,  that  it  is  a cus- 
tom of  many  farmers  to  have  a great  deal  of  company  on  Sundays  and 
asked  if  this  was  not  the  case  here.  I found  that  my  suspicions  were  true 
and  that  a number  of  persons  had  been  admitted  to  the  sick  room,  thus  excit- 
ing and  tiring  the  patient.  This  was  what  caused  the  relapse  and  flighti- 
ness of  the  patient.  Thereafter  they  were  more  careful  about  admitting 
visitors  to  the  sick  room  until  the  patient  had  more  fully  recovered.  Too 
much  care  cannot  be  exercised  in  the  treatment  of  this  disease. 

In  typhoid  fever,  careful  feeding  is  of  the  utmost  importance.  I once  had 
a typhoid  patient,  a girl,  who  could  take  scarcely  any  food.  In  four  weeks 
sickness  she  did  not  take  and  retain  more  than  two  quarts  of  liquid  nourish- 
ment. I finally  stopped  trying  to  force  her  to  take  food  and  gave  plenty  of 
good  water.  She  was  very  thin  when  the  fever  left  her  but  she  recovered 
nicely. 

After  Effects. — During  or  after  typhoid  the  patient  is  likely  to  have 
hemorrhage  or  bleeding  from  the  bowels ; heart,  stomach  or  liver  trouble : 
bronchitis  or  pneumonia.  To  avoid  these  do  not  allow  the  patient  to  get  U]) 
out  of  bed  for  any  purpose,  do  not  give  too  strong  medicine  and  do  not  let 
the  patient  take  cold. 

TYPHUS  FEVER. 

Typhus  fever  is  an  acute  infectious  disease. 

Cause. — Unsanitary  conditions. 

Symptoms. — The  disease  comes  on  quite  suddenly.  There  is  a chill, 
headache,  backache,  weakness  and  a high  fever.  The  fever  usually  runs 
from  103  to  107  degrees.  The  pulse  is  full  and  rapid  and  not  so  feeble  as  in 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


81 


typhoid  fever.  The  face  is  deeply  flushed  and  there  is  an  eruption  on  the 
abdomen,  or  belly,  in  from  3 to  5 days.  If  the  patient  survives,  the  fever 
usually  ends  in  from  12  to  14  days.  It  decrease  : rapidly  at  this  time. 
TREATMENT.— 

The  treatment  should  be  similar  to  that  of  typhoid  fever. 

Preventive. — Fresh  air  and  sunshine. 

BLOOD  POISONING. 

Toxemia — Septicemia  and  Pyemia. 

Description. — Septicemia  means  putrid  material  in  the  blood.  Pyemia 
means  pus  in  the  blood.  These  are  old  names  and  toxemia  is  the  better 
term. 

Cause. — It  generally  is  caused  by  poisoning  from  diseases  such  as  ab- 
scesses, carbuncles,  boils,  appendicitis  or  mastoid  disease  or  from  an  injury 
like  a splinter  in  the  finger  or  a nail  in  the  foot. 

Symptoms. — Chills  are  more  or  less  severe.  There  is  fever,  sweats, 
stupor,  prostration,  a general  “ all  in  ” feeling,  unconsciousness  and  death. 
Some  cases  are  slower  and  may  be  called  sub-acute  or  chronic. 
TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Suppose  you  have  stepped  on  a nail  and  run  it  into  your 
foot,  or  opened  a can  and  cut  yourself.  The  hand  or  foot  gets  sore.  Open 
the  wound  thoroughly  with  an  instrument  that  has  been  placed  in  boiling 
water  for  at  least  five  minutes  so  as  to  kill  all  germs.  Wash  the  sore  with 
gauze  or  clean  linen  and  an  antiseptic  solution  or  if  you  have  no  antiseptics 
use  hot  boiled  water.  If  a nail  has  been  run  into  the  foot  put  on  a hot  bread 
and  milk  poultice,  change  it  often  and  keep  it  on  till  it  bleeds  freely.  Then 
put  on  salt  pork.  If  the  nail  went  into  the  fore  part  of  the  foot  look  out  for 
trouble  on  top  of  the  foot  in  a few  days.  If  it  becomes  sore  it  must  be  opened, 
cleansed  and  drained.  Keep  it  open  so  that  it  can  drain  and  do  not  try  to 
heal  it  up  outside  too  soon.  By  such  care  at  the  beginning  many  cases  of 
blood  poisoning  can  be  prevented.  If  you  have  an  abscess  it  should  be  opened 
thoroughly,  drained  and  kept  drained.  Cleanliness  of  instrument,  person, 
and  coverings  is  essential.  Externally  it  should  be  kept  clean  with  hot  water. 

Treatment  after  Poisoning. — Remove  the  foreign  body  and  give  free 
drainage  and  do  not  try  to  close  the  sore.  After  the  parts  have  been  washed 
out  thoroughly  with  an  antiseptic  and  cleaned  with  clean  tools,  put  on  steri- 
lized absorbent  cotton.  Use  plenty  of  gauze  over  the  cotton  and  then  apply 
adhesive  plaster  to  hold  it  on.  Keep  the  wound  open  so  that  it  can  dis- 
charge. If  it  throbs  it  should  be  opened  and  dressed  again.  Be  sure  that  the 
splinfer,  bee  sting  or  other  foreign  body  has  been  removed. 

CHOLERA. 

Asiatic  Cholera. 

Description. — This  term  is  used  to  designate  a disease  characterized  by 
watery  purging,  cramps,  vomiting  and  extreme  prostration. 

Cause. — This  disease  is  due  to  infection  of  the  bowels  by  specific  micro- 
organisms or  germs  called  “ Spirillum  Cholerae  Asiatic.” 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  come  on  in  from  a few  hours  to  10  days 
after  infection.  The  first  symptom  is  a watery  diarrhea.  The  patient  suffers 
from  weakness  and  depression  and  if  the  passages  from  the  bowels  are  very 
6 


82 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


great  he  suffers  from  great  feebleness  and  even  collapse  with  but  little  or  no 
symptoms  of  the  coming  on  of  the  disease.  The  patient  is  taken  suddenly 
with  active  vomiting  and  purging,  severe  cramps  and  collapse.  Some  cases 
are  more  mild.  If  the  case  is  severe  it  is  always  very  serious. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  up  the  strength  and  treat  according  to  the 
symptoms. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Third  trituration  of  Arsenicum ; second  dilu- 
ton  of  Veratrum  Alb.;  Camphor  Tincture.  (For  preparation  and  doses  see 
“ Homeopathic  Medicines  ” in  Nursing  Department.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Tincture  of  Camphor. — At  the  first  appearance  of  the  symptoms 
put  the  patient  to  bed  and  keep  him  quiet.  Every  two  to  five  minutes  give 
one  drop  of  tincture  of  camphor  on  a small  piece  of  sugar  and  every  15  or  20 
minutes  give  some  brandy  and  water  if  the  patient  can  retain  it.  When  the 
patient  is  in  a perspiration  begin  to  give  the  medicine  less  frequently.  Allow 
him  to  sweat  eight  or  ten  hours. 

2.  Preventive. — Tincture  of  camphor  internally  in  one-drop  doses  twice 
a day  is  a preventive  of  this  disease.  Another  preventive  is  to  put  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  flowers  of  sulphur  into  each  stocking.  To  stop  the  vomiting 
in  the  second  stage  give  a teaspoonful  of  the  following  mixture  every  five  to 
fifteen  minutes — salt  and  black  pepper,  of  each  1 dram ; vinegar,  5 drams 
and  hot  water,  4 ounces.  For  the  cramps  rub  the  limbs  vigorously  with  the 
hands  or  warm  flannels.  Rub  tincture  of  capsicum  (red  pepper)  along  the 
spine  and  follow  with  a mustard  poultice.  During  the  third  stage  wrap  the 
patient  in  wet  hot  blankets  and  give  a mixture  of  one  part  of  tincture  of 
camphor  and  three  parts  of  prickly  ash  berries.  Give  from  a teaspoonful 
to  a tablespoonful  in  water  every  ten  to  twenty  minutes.  Brandy  may  also 
be  given. 

3.  Cayenne  Pepper  and  Camphor  Gum. — Into  a teacup  two-thirds  full 
of  hot  water  stir  20  grains  of  cayenne  pepper  and  10  grains  of  powdered 
camphor  gum.  The  dose  is  a teaspoonful  every  hour  or  oftener  if  necessary. 

BUBONIC  PLAGUE. 

The  Plague — Black  Death. 

Description. — This  is  a specific  contagious  disease  occurring  chiefly  in 
unsanitary  surroundings.  It  is  attended  with  high  fever  and  skin  troubles 
such  as  carbuncles,  boils  or  buboes.  It  occurs  in  epidemics  or  sweeps  over 
a country  and  runs  a rapid  and  severe  course. 

History. — The  plague  is  an  oriental  or  eastern  disease  and  has  long  ex- 
isted in  certain  portions  of  India.  Most  European  countries  have  at  some 
time  been  visited  by  epidemics  of  this  dreadful  malady.  Probably  the  most 
famous  epidemic  of  the  Black  Death  was  in  Europe  in  the  14th  century.  More 
than  70,000  died  in  1665  during  another  outbreak  in  London.  Another  severe 
epidemic  visited  Hong  Kong  and  Canton,  China  in  1894.  The  disease  was 
brought  to  these  cities  from  Northern  India.  One  hundred  and  eighty  thou- 
sand people  died  in  Canton.  In  September  of  1896  the  disease  appeared  in 
Bombay  and  the  plague  statistics  for  the  Bombay  district  from  Sept.  1896 
to  Jan.  13,  1899  are  169,240  deaths  out  of  214,197  cases.  According  to  Koch 
there  are  three  great  central  plague  locations.  One  is  in  Mesopotamia,  one 
in  Assir  and  one  in  Thibet.  There  is  also  a plague  district  in  German  East 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


83 


Africa.  San  Francisco  has  had  some  cases  in  recent  years  but  by  sanitary 
measures  it  was  readily  stamped  out. 

Cause. — The  disease  is  caused  by  special  organisms  or  germs  called 
“ bacilli  pestis  bubonicse.”  Inside  the  body  the  germs  have  been  found  in 
the  lungs,  enlarged  glands,  pus  from  the  buboes,  the  blood  and  other  internal 
organs.  Outside  the  body  they  are  found  in  dust,  excreta,  food,  soil,  and  in 
infected  rats  and  flies.  According  to  Koch  the  germs  get  into  the  body 
through  the  digestive  tract  by  being  taken  in  food,  through  the  respiratory 
tract  or  by  breathing,  and  by  inoculation.  The  plague  is  spread  by  the  two 
principal  agents,  men  and  rats.  In  almost  all  outbreaks  affecting  man,  rats 
had  the  disease  before  and  during  the  epidemic.  The  rat  carries  the  disease 
from  house  to  house  and  of  course  man  carries  it  longer  distances.  Flies, 
fleas,  ants  and  other  insects  also  carry  the  disease  and  especially  from  rats 
to  men.  Mice,  dogs,  cats,  horses  and  pigs  also  become  infected  and  die  of 
the  disease.  These,  both  before  and  after  death,  transmit  the  disease  to 
healthy  animals  and  to  man.  The  disease  is  frequently  carried  by  ships 
and  by  merchandise,  clothing,  etc. 

Symptoms. — It  is  from  3 to  7 days  coming  on.  There  is  pallor,  head- 
ache and  dizziness.  The  person  walks  as  though  intoxicated.  The  disease 
may  come  on  abruptly  with  bilious  vomiting,  chills  and  recurring  shiverings. 
The  fever  rises  rapidly  to  103  or  104  degrees  or  even  to  106  degrees.  The  pulse 
becomes  rapid  and  thread-like.  There  is  stupor  and  the  patient  may  be  delir- 
ious. The  patient  may  now  become  very  weak  and  may  die  during  the  first 
period  of  the  disease.  More  commonly  the  patient  survives  this  threatened 
collapse  and  then  from  the  second  to  the  fifth  day  appear  the  buboes  or  inflam- 
mation of  the  lymph  glands.  These  glands  may  enlarge  gradually  or  rapidly 
and  are  usually  quite  painful.  These  enlarged  glands  may  disappear  or  they 
may  remain  unchanged,  particularly  in  fatal  cases.  Pus  may  form  and  some- 
times, but  rarely,  gangrene  may  occur,  forming  the  so-called  carbuncle.  The 
latter  may  also  appear  as  gangrenous  patches  over  the  trunk  and  legs.  In 
the  worst  cases  there  is  bleeding  from  the  lungs,  stomach  and  intestines. 
There  are  two  forms  of  the  plague  that  affect  man.  One  affects  the  Ivm- 
phatic  glands  and  the  other  affects  the  lungs.  Plague-pneumonia  is  common 
in  certain  ei»idemics.  The  duration  of  the  disease  in  fatal  cases  is  from  3 
to  5 days.  On  the  other  hand  cases  that  tend  to  recovery  may  be  prolonged, 
on  account  of  the  forming  of  pus  in  the  buboes,  to  a few  weeks  or  even 
months.  The  percentage  of  deaths  is  from  40  to  90  per  cent.  The  forma- 
tion of  pus  in  the  buboes  or  enlarged  glands  is  a favorable  symptom.  A 
rapid  disappearance  of  a group  of  enlarged  glands  or  the  appearance  of  car- 
buncles and  bleeding  are  bad  signs.  Intense  poisoning  features  and  purple 
spots  are  signs  of  plague-pneumonia. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Abandon  all  unsanitary  habits.  Isolate  the  sick.  Avoid 
coming  in  contact  with  infected  persons  '^r  entering  infected  dwellings.  Dis- 
infect the  sick  room,  the  bed.  bed  clothes,  the  vomit  and  stools.  Steam  the 
bed  at  212  degrees  for  one  hour  and  expose  to  the  sunlight  for  a few  hours. 
Burn  all  infected  articles  that  you  do  not  disinfect.  After  recovery  the  pa- 
tient should  not  mingle  with  others  for  at  least  a month. 

Treatment  of  Attacks. — Medicines  seem  to  do  no  good  but  only  combat 
the  symptoms  as  they  arise.  For  the  delirium  and  pain,  morphine  or  hyos- 


84 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


cin  is  given.  According  to  some  authors  the  serum  treatment  gives  good 
results  both  as  a preventive  and  curative  agent. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — For  the  high  fever  give  tepid  or  cold  sponging.  The 
diet  should  be  liquid,  concentrated  and  nourishing  and  stimulation  is  de- 
manded from  the  start. 

YELLOW  FEVER. 

Description. — This  is  an  infectious  disease  occurring  chiefly  in  warm 
climates  and  is  attended  with  fever,  a yellowish  skin,  in  some  cases  a black 
vomit,  and  a tendency  to  oozing  bleeding  from  the  mucous  membrane.  A 
commission  was  appointed  by  the  United  States  Government  to  investigate 
yellow  fever  cases  and  here  is  what  they  report. 

Report  of  Commission. — 

1.  The  mosquito  (stegomyia  fasciata)  serves  as  intermediate  host  for 
the  parasite  of  yellow  fever. 

2.  Yellow  fever  is  transmitted  to  the  non-immune  individual  by  the 
means  of  the  bite  of  the  mosquito  that  has  previously  fed  on  the  blood  of 
those  sick  with  the  disease. 

3.  An  interval  of  about  12  days  or  more  after  contamination  seems  to 
be  necessary  before  the  mosquito  is  capable  of  conveying  the  infection. 

4.  The  bite  of  the  mosquito  at  an  earlier  period  after  contamination 
does  not  appear  to  confer  any  immunity  against  a subsequent  attack. 

5.  Yellow  fever  can  also  be  experimental!}^  produced  by  the  sub- 
cutaneous injection  of  blood  taken  from  the  general  circulation  during  the 
first  and  second  days  of  this  disease. 

6.  An  attack  of  yellow  fever  produced  by  the  bite  of  the  mosquito 
confers  immunity  against  a subsequent  attack  of  the  non-experimental  form 
of  this  disease. 

7.  The  period  of  incubation  in  13  cases  of  experimental  yellow  fever 
has  varied  from  41  hours  to  5 days  and  17  hours. 

8.  Yellow  fever  is  not  conveyed  by  fomities  (infected  goods)  and 
hence  disinfection  of  clothing,  bedding  or  merchandise,  supposedly  contam- 
inated by  contact  with  those  who  are  sick  with  this  disease,  is  not  necessary. 

9.  A house  may  be  said  to  be  infected  with  yellow  fever  only  when 
there  are  present  within  its  walls,  contaminated  mosquitoes  capable  of  con- 
veying the  parasite  of  this  disease. 

10.  The  spread  of  yellow  fever  can  be  most  effectually  controlled  by 
measures  directed  to  the  destruction  of  mosquitoes  and  the  protection  of 
the  sick  against  the  bites  of  these  insects. 

11.  Mdiile  the  mode  of  propagation  of  yellow  fever  has  now  been  defin- 
itely determined,  the  specific  cause  of  this  disease  remains  to  be  discovered. 

Symptoms. — The  disease  comes  on  very  suddenly  with  tiredness,  head- 
ache, eyeache,  dizziness,  chills,  paleness,  stomach  distress  and  severe  back 
and  muscular  pains.  The  fever  runs  from  103  to  107  degrees.  The  breathing 
and  pulse  are  at  first  increased.  On  the  second  or  third  day  the  pulse  rate 
falls  even  while  the  fever  is  rising.  The  tongue  is  red  and  covered  with  a 
white  fur.  The  bowels  are  constipated  and  the  urine  scanty  and  containing 
albumen.  On  the  third  day  the  symptoms  become  greatly  modified,  or  less- 
ened. This  is  the  critical  period.  If  the  patient  gets  worse  there  is  heart  and 
stom.ach  distress  and  persistent  vomiting  of  a brown,  reddish  looking  ma- 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


85 


terial.  The  urine  is  more  scanty  and  contains  albumen.  The  ^rave  symp- 
toms increase. 

TREATMENT.— 

Plenty  of  fresh  air  and  sunshine.  Give  medicine  according  to  the  symp- 
toms. 

MALARIAL  FEVERS. 

Description. — By  malarial  fever  we  mean  or  refer  to  a condition  pro- 
duced by  the  entrance  into  and  development  in  the  blood  of  certain  germs 
known  as  “ plasomodium  malarias.”  There  are  four  forms  of  this  disease — 
intermittent,  remittent,  relapsing  and  pernicious. 

Intermittent  Fever — Fever  and  Ague  or  Chills  and  Fever. — There  are 
chills,  fever  and  sweating.  These  may  occur  daily,  or  alternate  days  or 
every  third  day. 

Remittent  Fever. — This  is  continued  fever  with  remissions.  Symptoms 
are  a great  deal  like  intermittent  fever. 

Relapsing  Fever. — This  is  the  sub-acute  or  chronic  form. 

Pernicious  Fever. — This  is  a malignant  form  where  the  symptoms  are 
very  active. 

TREATMENT.— 

Quinine  is  usually  the  treatment.  Must  also  treat  the  symptoms  as 
they  arise.  If  the  fever  and  chills  occur  daily  the  quinine  is  to  be  given  each 
day.  If  it  does  not  occur  every  day  then  give  the  quinine  on  the  days  it  is 
expected.  For  the  milder  forms  give  from  10  to  15  grains.  For  the  more 
severe  cases  from  30  to  60  grains  may  be  given  in  powder.  If  it  is  the  per- 
nicious form  give  in  soft  capsules  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Herb  Remedies  for  Ague  and  Intermittent  and  Remittent  Fever. — Where 
quinine  cannot  be  given  use  dogwood  bark.  Put  the  dried  bark  into  water 
and  boil  it  down  to  the  proper  consistenc}^  The  dose  of  this  is  from  20  to 
60  grains.  The  dose  of  the  extract  is  from  1 to  5 grains.  Another  remedy  is 
to  give  hot  boneset  tea  to  produce  vomiting.  During  the  intermission  give 
the  tea  cold.  It  is  to  be  given  every  hour  as  a tonic  and  anti-periodic.  A 
decoction  made  by  boiling  ironwood  in  water  is  still  another  remedy.  The 
dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

For  Ague,  Malarial  Fever,  Etc. — I give  2 grains  of  quinine  every  1 to  2 
hours  in  acute  cases,  until  the  patient  hears  his  ears  “ singing.”  Then  I give 
him  just  enough  to  keep  him  in  this  condition,  say  a dose  every  2 to  5 hours. 
Give  to  children  in  proportion  to  their  age.  In  chronic  cases  quinine  is  not 
so  good.  The  bowels  and  kidneys  must  be  kept  working  well  by  laxatives 
and  diuretics  if  necessary.  Give  tonics  in  the  interval  if  the  patient  is  run 
down.  For  chronic  cases  Fowler’s  solution  of  arsenic,  5 drops  four  times  a 
day,  is  good. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Arsenicum  Alb.,  third  trituration,  every  three 
hours  is  good.  Natrum  Mur.  is  good  in  some  cases.  (For  preparation  and 
dose  see  “ Homeopathic  Medicines  ” in  Nursing  Department.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Salt — The  Great  South  American  Remedy. — Roast  some  salt  in  the 
oven  until  it  is  the  color  of  roasted  coffee.  Dissolve  a soupspoonful  in  a 
glass  of  water  and  take  at  one  dose.  Be  careful  of  the  diet. 

Physician’s  Remark. — South  Americans  claim  that  burnt  salt  is  an  ex- 
cellent remedy  for  this  disease. 


86 


PEOPLE’S  PIOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


2.  Remittent  Fever. — During  the  fever  the  mother  should  wrap  the 
child  in  wet  cloths  until  it  sweats,  then  wash  in  warm  water.  Put  cloths 
wrung  out  of  cold  water  to  the  head  if  it  is  hot  and  change  frequently.  This 
is  for  remittent  fever. 

3.  Onions,  Garlics,  Mustard,  Vinegar. — Give  a cathartic  and  place 
either  onion,  garlic  or  mustard  poultices  to  the  feet  and  apply  equal  parts 
of  vinegar  and  water  to  the  head. 

Physician’s  Remark. — If  garlic  poultices  are  used  it  is  hardly  necessary 
to  add  that  it  might  be  a good  plan  for  the  nurse  to  hold  her  breath  while 
attending  to  the  patient. 

4.  Herb  Teas. — Mothers  will  find  the  following  remedy  valuable  for 
remittent  fever  of  children.  When  the  fever  is  on,  let  the  patient  drink  freely 
of  warm  balm,  catnip  or  elder  flower  tea.  When  the  fever  is  off,  take  a quart 
of  boiling  water  and  add  a tablespoonful  of  each  of  the  following  in  powder 
form : dogwood  bark,  black  cohosh  root,  chamomile  flowers  and  Solomon’s 
seal  root.  Steep  for  four  hours  in  a covered  vessel  and,  when  cold,  strain  and 
sweeten.  Give  a teaspoonful  every  hour. 

5.  Catnip,  Boneset,  Pennyroyal,  Red  Pepper  and  Lemonade. — During 
the  chills  of  ague  let  the  patient  drink  either  catnip,  boneset,  pennyroyal  or 
red  pepper  tea  and  during  the  fever  allow  cold  lemonade. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  first  three  of  these  teas  cause  sweating,  red 
pepper  stimulates  the  stomach  and  lemonade  quenches  the  thirst  and  supplies 
citric  acid. 

6.  Ginger  and  Hot  Milk. — Add  a large  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger 
to  a pint  of  milk,  heat  and  drink  when  the  chills  come  on.  Repeat  before 
each  chill  if  necessary. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Ginger  is  stimulating  and  warming. 

7.  Lemon  Juice. — Drink  the  juice  of  three  lemons  every  other  day  if 
you  have  chills  and  fever. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Each  lemon  yields  from  2 to  8 drams  of  juice  con- 
taining from  7 to  9 per  cent,  of  citric  acid  besides  phosphoric  and  malic  acids 
in  combination  with  potassa  and  other  bases.  The  juice  is  good  as  a sweater 
for  colds  and  has  many  other  uses  both  internal  and  external. 

8.  Coffee  and  Citric  Acid. — Just  before  a chill  comes  on  drink  a cup  of 
hot  coffee  in  which  has  been  dissolved  fifteen  grains  of  citric  acid.  A woman 
in  Alississippi  where  this  disease  is  common  tells  of  several  instances  where 
this  treatment  has  cured  some  very  bad  cases. 

9.  Cotton  Seed  Tea. — A southern  lady  gives  the  following:  “To  two 
pints  of  water  add  1 pint  of  cotton  seed  and  boil  to  a pint.  Strain  and  take 
while  warm  about  an  hour  before  the  chill  is  expected.” 

10.  Dandelion  and  Quinine. — Put  two  ounces  of  elixir  of  dandelion  into 
an  8 ounce  bottle.  Add  40  grains  of  quinine  and  fill  the  bottle  with  simple 
syrup.  Shake  well  and  take  a tablespoonful  three  or  four  times  a day.  For 
children,  give  in  proportion  to  their  ages.  This  is  claimed  to  be  a sure  remedv. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Dandelion  acts  upon  the  bovveis  and  thus  causes 
them  to  do  better  work  during  ague. 

11.  Mandrake  Root,  Molasses  and  Boxwood  Tea. — Squeeze  out  IV2 
tablespoonfuls  of  juice  from  freshly  dug  mandrake  root  and  mix  with  the 
same  quantity  of  molasses.  This  will  make  three  doses  of  a tablespoonful 
each.  Take  two  hours  apart.  Then  drink  boxwood  tea  which  is  made  from 
the  bark.  Drink  this  freely  for  a couple  of  weeks. 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


87 


12.  Quinine  and  Red  Pepper. — Mix  10  grains  of  quinine  and  4 grains 
of  red  pepper,  divide  into  3 doses  and  take  four  hours,  two  hours  and  one 
hour  before  the  chill  is  expected. 

Physician’s  Remark. — I think  that  larger  doses  of  the  quinine  could  be 
used  to  betrcr  advantage. 

13.  Soot  Tea. — Take  a tablespoonful  of  wood  soot  scraped  from  the 
chimney  and  steep  in  a pint  of  water.  Settle  with  an  egg  and  add  sugar  and 
cream  and  drink  wiLii  each  meal  the  same  as  coffee. 

14.  Wormwood  Tea. — This  is  very  good  for  the  chills. 

15.  Lemon  and  Salt. — Eat  one  raw  lemon  with  a little  salt  three  times 
a day  and  take  some  good  laxative. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  keeps  the  stomach,  liver  and  bowels  in  good 
condition. 


ANTHRAX. 

Description. — This  is  an  infectious  disease  common  in  Europe  and 
South  America. 

Cause. — It  is  due  to  the  presence  of  germs  called  the  bacillus  anthracis. 
It  comes  largely  from  handling  infected  animals  or  their  raw  hides. 
TREATMENT.— 

The  treatment  is  preventive.  Forbid  handling  the  raw  hides  and  infected 
animals  if  they  have  any  superficial  wounds. 

LOCK  JAW. 

Tetanus. 

Cause. — This  is  produced  by  germs  or  the  bacillus  of  tetanus.  It  can 
be  caused  by  poisoning  from  a very  small  and  insignificant  wound  such 
as  a pin  prick,  a rusty  nail  or  a cut  from  a tin  can.  Fourth  of  July  produces 
many  cases  because  of  the  injuries  happening  on  this  day. 

Symptoms. — The  muscles  become  rigid  and  set  so  that  the  limbs  are  fixed 
and  the  jaw  locked. 

Treatment. — Tetanus  antitoxin  is  the  remedy,  but  it  must  be  used  early. 
Should  be  given  immediately  after  the  wound  if  possible.  Give  chloral  hy- 
drate and  the  bromides  in  full  doses  for  the  spasms.  Give  nourishing  and 
easily  digested  foods  and  feed  through  a tube  inserted  in  the  nostrils  if 
necessary.  All  wounds  should  be  cleaned  and  dressed  as  directed  under 
“ Blood  Poisoning.” 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Wood  Ashes,  Vinegar,  Cayenne  Pepper,  Etc. — Put  hot  wood  ashes 
into  hot  water,  wet  thick  cloths  in  the  water  and  apply  to  the  jaws  as  quickly 
as  possible  and  at  the  same  time  bathe  the  entire  backbone  with  hot  vinegar 
with  either  cayenne  pepper  or  mustard  added.  If  vinegar  is  not  at  hand 
use  hot  water  in  its  place.  Persist  in  this  treatment  and  the  jaws  will  relax. 

2.  Turpentine. — Some  spirits  of  turpentine  poured  upon  almost  any 
kind  of  a wound  will  often  give  relie'f. 

3.  Tobacco. — Moisten  some  tobacco  thoroughly  and  lay  upon  the  pa- 
tient’s stomach.  This  will  cause  sickness  and  relaxing  of  the  muscles  as  there 
are  many  nerves  in  this  region.  Do  not  leave  it  on  longer  than  is  neces- 
sary to  produce  the  desired  effect  or  it  may  cause  deathly  sickness. 

4.  Nicotine. — Give  nicotine  in  one-drop  doses  in  a little  wine  'often 


88 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


enough  to  control  the  convulsions.  In  some  cases  two  dropsv  will  be  re- 
quired. This  remedy  comes  from  Scotland  and  is  claimed  to  be  very  effective. 
Edcotine  is  a poison  contained  in  tobacco. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  drug  should  be  used  very  carefully. 

GONORRHCEA. 

(See  Men’s  Department.) 

DENGUE. 

Breakbone  Fever — Three-Day  Fever. 

This  is  also  called  “Dandy  Fever,”  “Bouquet  Fever”  and  “Bucket 
Fever.”  It  is  an  acute  infectious  disease  and  is  usually  epidemic.  There  is 
severe  pain  in  the  muscles  and  joints  and  the  patient  has  a peculiar  walk. 

MALTA  FEVER. 

This  is  commonly  found  on  the  Island  of  Malta. 

MASHA  FEVER. 

This  is  a disease  found  in  certain  sections  of  India. 

BERIBERI. 

This  is  epidemic  multiple-neuritis  found  in  tropical  and  sub-tropical 
countries. 

FUNGUS  FOOT. 

Mycetoma. 

This  is  the  maderia  foot  or  fungus  foot  of  India.  It  is  characterized 
by  an  enlargement  of  the  feet  or  hands.  So  far  as  is  known  it  is  limited  to 
the  natives  of  India  and  Europeans  who  go  there  do  not  seem  to  take  it. 

LUMP  JAW. 

Actinomycosis — Wooden  Tongue. 

This  is  a chronic  infectious  disorder  produced  by  germs.  It  is  some- 
times called  the  ray  fungus.  It  is  far  more  common  in  cattle.  When  the 
tongue  is  affected  it  is  called  wooden  tongue. 

TICK  FEVER. 

This  is  usually  seen  in  western  Montana. 

Cause. — -It  is  caused  by  the  bite  of  the  “ tick.” 

Treatment. — Give  fifteen  grains  of  quinine  hypodermically  every  six 
hours.  Stimulate  the  heart.  Drink  large  quantities  of  water. 

GLANDERS. 

Farcy. 

This  disease  is  generally  met  with  in  the  horse  but  it  is  sometimes  taken 
by  man.  Nodules  or  masses  appear  in  the  nostrils  *of  the  horse.  When  they 
appear  on  the  skin  the  disease  is  called  farc}^ 

Cause. — It  is  caught  by  taking  care  of  a horse  with  glanders. 

Symptoms. — The  disease  develops  about  four  days  after  infection.  The 
patient  feels  wretched,  has  fever  and  there  is  circumscribed  swelling  at  the 
place  of  infection,  Tliis  is  followed  in  a few  days  by  ulceration  of  the  mem- 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


89 


brane  lining  the  nose  passages  and  there  is  a discharge  of  muco-pus.  There 
is  cough  and  difficult  swallowing.  The  disease  is  very  dangerous. 

Treatment. — Open  the  swellings  and  give  free  drainage.  Give  a nour- 
ishing diet  and  stimulants. 

LEPROSY. 

- A chronic  infectious  disease  caused  by  bacilli  leprae,  characterized  by 
the  presence  of  tubercular  nodules  (lumps)  in  the  skin  and  mucous  mem- 
branes (tubercular  leprosy),  or  by  changes  in  the  nerves  (anaesthetic  leprosy). 
At  first  these  forms  may  be  separate  but  ultimatel^^  both  are  combined  and 
in  the  characteristic  tubercular  form  there  are  disturbances  of  sensation.” 
(Dr.  Osier.) 

History. — It  seems  that  the  disease  prevailed  in  Egypt  even  as  early 
as  three  or  four  thousand  years  before  Christ,  and  both  in  China  and  India 
the  disease  was  known  many  centuries  before  the  Christian  era.  All  the 
cases  that  now  exist  in  Great  Britain  are  imported.  In  Europe  the  disease 
is  prevalent  in  Sweden  and  Norway,  parts  of  Russia  and  particularly  the 
districts  about  Dorpat,  Riga  and  the  Caucasus,  and  in  some  parts  of  Spain 
and  Portugal.  In  the  United  States  there  are  three  important  regions  where 
the  disease  is  found.  In  Louisiana  the  disease  has  existed  since  1785  and  has 
increased  of  late.  It  is  estimated  that  there  are  between  300  and  500  cases  in 
Louisiana.  The  disease  has  been  brought^into  California  by  the  Chinese 
and  cases  are  not  infrequent.  It  is  known  that  about  170  lepers  settled  in 
Minnesota  with  the  Norwegian  colonists  but  the  disease  has  steadily  de- 
creased. The  disease  is  also  found  in  Canada  and  Mexico  and  is  more 
common  in  the  West  Indies. 

Modes  of  Infection. — (a)  Inoculation — A person  may  be  infected  by  ac- 
cidental inoculation,  (b)  Heredity — It  may  be  transmitted  from  parent  to 
child,  but  this  is  doubtful.  In  this  respect  it  is  similar  to  tuberculosis.  The 
youngest  cases  are  rarely  under  three  or  four  years. 

It  may  be  spread  through  infected  clothing,  merchandise,  etc.,  but  the 
closest  and  most  intimate  contact  is  necessary.  Doctors,  nurses  and  sisters 
of  charity  seldom  take  the  disease. 

The  tubercles  of  leprosy  consist  of  tissue  which  is  made  up  of  various 
sized  cells  in  a connective  tissue  matrix.  The  germs  lie  in  great  numbers 
partly  between  and  partly  in  the  cells.  The  skin  is  gradually  aflPected  and 
tuberous  outgrowths  appear  with  intervening  spaces  of  ulceration  which 
in  the  face  may  gradually  produce  the  so-called  facies  leotina  or  lion  face. 
The  mucous  membrane  may  also  be  affected  and  particularly  about  the  eyes 
and  the  back  part  of  the  throat.  Deep  ulcers  form  in  many  cases  and  the 
result  is  often  the  loss  of  toes,  fingers  and  other  parts  of  the  body.  In  an- 
aesthetic leprosy  the  development  of  the  germs  in  the  fibers  of  the  nerves 
produces  peripheral  neuritis.  This  involvement  of  the  nerves  is  the  cause 
of  many  of  the  important  features,  and  particularly  the  changes  and  de- 
struction of  the  tissues  of  the  skin  and  the  disturbances  of  sensation. 

Treatment. — There  are  no  specific  remedies  for  this  disease.  Segrega- 
tion, or  the  placing  of  the  patients  by  themselves,  should  be  compulsory  in 
all  cases  unless  the  friends  have  ample  provision  in  their  homes  for  their 
isolation  and  care. 


90 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


HYDROPHOBIA. 

In  the  preparation  of  this  article  we  have  consulted  some  of  the  best 
authorities  in  the  country  on  the  subject  of  the  treatment  of  hydrophobia 
by  the  Pasteur  method.  Institutes  for  the  treatment  of  this  disease  by  this 
method  are  located  at  Ann  Arbor,  Michigan;  Chicago,  Illinois;  Austin,  Texas; 
Baltimore,  Maryland;  Minneapolis,  Minnesota;  and  New  York  City.  Doubt- 
less they  will  be  established  in  man}^  other  cities  before  many  years. 

Hydrophobia  is  an  infectious  disease  transmitted  to  man  by  the  bite 
of  a dog  or  some  other  animal  suffering  from  “ madness  ” or  rabies.  The 
disease  is  communicated  by  the  bite  of  the  mad  animal  and  by  means  of  the 
saliva.  This  poison  is  naturally  located  in  the  nervous  system  and  does  not 
seem  to  keep  its  poisonous  power  when  introduced  into  any  other  system  of 
organs.  So  hydrophobia  is  a nervous  disease.  In  order  to  have  a poisonous 
effect  this  poison  must  touch  a broken  nerve  trunk.  When  the  poison  comes 
in  contact  with  the  end  of  a broken  nerve  trunk  it  slowly  spreads  to  the  higher 
nerve  centers  and  in  time  causes  hydrophobia. 

The  term  “ rabies  ” applies  more  particularly  to  animals  suffering  with 
this  disease  than  to  man.  The  term  means  “to  become  mad”  or  “to  rage.” 
“ Hydrophobia  ” comes  from  a Greek  word  which  means  “ water-fear.”  In 
man,  when  suffering  from  this  disease,  we  sometimes  find  a dread  of  water  and 
that  is  why  we  apply  the  one  ter|^  to  man  and'  the  other  to  animals.  The  dog 
and  other  lower  animals  will  try  again  and  again  to  drink  even  though  the 
attempt  brings  on  a spasm  of  the  muscles  used  in  swallowing.  It  seems 
that  the  animal  is  more  excitable  and  at  the  same  time  its  sensitiveness  to 
outside  impressions  is  deadened  and  so  the  animal  will  try  to  drink  even 
when  it  causes  great  pain. 

After  a person  has  been  bitten  it  is  generally  from  three  to  six  months 
before  the  disease  develops.  The  disease  is  seldom  over  six  months  in  de- 
veloping but  one  case  is  reported  where  it  developed  thirteen  days  after  the 
person  was  bitten. 

During  the  first  stage  of  the  disease  or  the  stage  of  excitement  the  pa- 
tient has  an  expression  of  great  anxiety.  One  of  the  marked  features  of  the 
disease  is  that  quite  early  the  patient  dreads  the  sight  of  water.  The  patient 
is  very  nervous  or  excitable  and  is  very  sensitive  to  feeling  or  pain  and  an 
unexpected  noise  or  a draft  of  air  may  cause  great  nervous  disturbance  and 
a violent  contraction  of  the  muscles  of  the  upper  part  of  the  windpipe.  These 
contractions,  or  spasms,  may  be  so  violent  as  to  make  it  verv  hard  for  the 
patient  to  breathe  and  may  cause  him  to  make  curious  sounds.  He  may 
also  make  snapping  noises  with  the  mouth.  This  is  caused  by  the  contrac- 
tions or  spasms  of  the  muscles  of  the  mouth.  The  patient  may  froth  at 
the  mouth  and  he  frequently  rolls  his  head  from  one  side  to  the  other  and 
is  very  restless  and  nervous.  The  attacks  come  on  by  spells  or  occur  in 
paroxysms  and  between  these  attacks  the  patient  is  free  froiu  excitement. 
The  pulse  is  somewhat  faster  than  normal  and  generally  the  fever  is  between 
100  and  103  degrees  though  sometimes  there  is  no  fever  at  all.  Spasms  of 
the  breathing  apparatus  develop  spontaneously  toward  the  latter  part  of  the 
first  stage  of  the  disease.  Oftentimes  the  patient  is  so  attacked  with  melan- 
cholia that  he  commits  suicide. 

The  disease  lasts  from  one  to  three  days.  The  paralytic  stage  follows 
the  stage  of  excitement  and  lasts  from  twelve  to  eighteen  hours.  The  pa- 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


%/  X 

tient  is  conscious  of  his  intense  pain  until  deatl  releases  him  from  his  ^reat 
suftering. 

The  three  marked  features  or  symptoms  that  usually  characterize  this 
disease  are  fear,  excitement  and  spasms  of  the  swallowing  muscles.  These 
terminate  in  general  paralysis. 

Mad  dojs  cause  about  nine  out  of  every  ten  cases  of  hydrophobia  in 
men  and  animals.  The  cat  causes  about  six  per  cent,  of  the  cases  and  the' 
remaining  cases  are  caused  by  mad  horses,  wolves,  foxes  and  other  animals. 
Many  animals  are  subject  to  the  disease  when  bitten  by  an  animal  suffering 
from  it. 

In  making  demonstrations  in  the  laboratory  the  rabbit  and  the  guinea 
pig  are  used.  In  diagnosing,  the  guinea  pig  is  generally  used  for  the  disease 
develops  in  it  quicker  than  in  other  animals.  Because  of  their  convenient 
size  and  because  they  are  easily  operated  on  rabbits  are  generally  used  to 
produce  the  material  for  treating  hydrophobia  patients. 

Patients  are  treated  by  injecting  them  with  a serum  prepared  for  the 
purpose.  The  brain  of  a mad  dog  is  taken  and  from  this  an  emulsion  is 
made.  Some  of  this  emulsion  or  poison  is  then  injected  into  the  brain  of 
a live  rabbit  and  after  the  rabbit  dies  of  hydrophobia  its  spinal  cord  is 
taken  out  and  put  into  a fluid  in  a glass  case.  Fourteen  of  these  cords  are 
kept  for  use  and  each  of  the  rabbits  from  which  they  were  taken  died  at  a 
different  time  so  that  the  cords  are  of  different  ages.  A serum  is  made  from 
each  of  the  cords  with  which  to  inject  the  patient  who  has  been  bitten. 
This  treatment  must  be  given,  however,  before  the  disease  has  developed 
in  the  patient.  The  fourteenth  spinal  cord  is  the  oldest  and  hence  the  weakest, 
or  the  least  poisonous,  and  the  serum  made  from  this  one  is  the  one  first  in- 
jected into  the  patient,  then  later  the  serum  from  the  thirteenth  cord  is 
injected  into  the  patient  and  next  from  the  twelfth  and  so  on  until  he  has 
been  injected  with  a serum  made  from  each  of  the  cords.  The  strength  of 
the  serum  used  is  thus  increased  at  each  injection  until  he  has  taken  enough 
and  of  the  proper  strength  to  make  him  immune  to  the  disease.  It  takes 
an  expert  to  give  the  proper  quantity  and  strength  and  make  the  treatment 
effective.  The  serum  is  not  injected  directly  from  a mad  dog  for  that  would 
be  too  strong  but  it  is  weakened  by  passing  through  the  rabbit. 

To  tell  whether  a dog  which  has  bitten  a person  was  really  mad  or 
not  an  emulsion  can  be  made  from  the  brain  of  the  dog  and  injected  into  a 
rabbit  or  guinea  pig  and  if  the  animal  develops  hydrophobia  you  are  then 
sure  the  dog  had  it.  This  method  takes  too  long,  however,  for  if  the  dog 
was  mad  the  patient  ought  to  begin  treatment  at  once.  A quicker  way  of 
determining  whether  the  animal  had  rabies  is  to  examine  the  brain.  If  it 
had  the  disease  peculiar  little  bodies  will  be  found  in  the  brain.  This  is 
why  it  is  necessary  to  send  the  head  of  the  dog  to  the  institute  if  you  have 
been  bitten  and  are  suspicious  that  it  was  mad. 

A person  may  get  hydrophobia  not  onlv  by  being  bitten  by  a dog  with 
rabies  but  he  may  get  it  by  having  the  animal  lick  a wound  on  the  hand  or 
face.  He  is  just  as  likely  to  take  it  this  w'ay  as  by  being  bitten  for  it  is  the 
saliva  that  transmits  the  disease.  Of  course  most  cases  are  caused  bv  being 
bitten.  The  lacerated  or  torn  wounds  on  the  hands  and  face  are  considered  the 
most  dangerous.  The  two  things  that  render  the  wound  most  dangerous  are 
its  locality  or  closeness  to  the  brain  and  the  large  amount  of  infection  trans- 
mitted. These  two  conditions  make  immediate  treatment  necessary  and 


92 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


yet  an  insignificant  wound  should  also  have  prompt  and  thorough  treatment 
for  death  may  be  caused  by  a very  small  wound.  If  the  wound  is  but  a 
small  one  the  disease  probably  will  not  develop  so  quickly  but  it  can  be 
just  as  fatal  as  a larger  wound  and  this  should  be  considered  in  deciding 
whether  to  begin  the  Pasteur  treatment  or  not. 

It  is  very  commonly  believed  that  a dog  goes  mad  because  of  the  lack 
of  water,  because  of  being  confined  or  because  of  hot  weather  and  yet  these 
conditions  alone  cannot  cause  rabies.  As  far  as  is  known  a dog  or  any  other 
animal  never  took  the  disease  spontaneously  but  it  was  always  the  result 
of  infection  from  some  other  animal.  Up  to  a few  years  ago  it  was  believed 
that  rabies  was  a hot  weather  disease  but  the  great  number  of  cases  occur- 
ring during  the  winter  months  has  proven  this  belief  to  be  unfounded. 

It  is  believed  by  many  that  the  disease  is  sure  to  follow  if  bitten  by  a 
mad  animal  but  the  truth  is  that  only  about  forty  per  cent,  of  the  animals 
bitten  by  rabid  animals  take  the  disease.  And  when  we  speak  of  man  alone, 
the  statistics  show  that  only  about  twenty  per  cent,  of  the  persons  bitten 
by  rabid  animals  develop  the  disease.  And  yet  when  one  is  considering  pre- 
ventive treatment  it  is  wise  to  consider  each  case  dangerous  and  to  take 
treatment  the  same  as  though  you  were  sure  the  disease  would  develop  if 
you  did  not.  The  danger  is  too  great  to  take  any  chances. 

Bites  on  the  exposed  parts  of  the  body  like  the  head,  neck  and  hands  are 
most  likely  to  result  in  hydrophobia  because  there  is  no  clothing  to  par- 
tially protect  these  parts.  Bites  on  the  face  and  head  are  especially  dangerous 
because  they  are  so  close  to  the  brain.  It  is  claimed  that  bites  on  the  head 
give  a mortality  of  eighty  per  cent,  and  they  cause  death  more  quickly  than 
bites  on  other  parts  of  the  bod}^ 

Pasteur  did  the  original  work  in  treating  hydrophobia  by  this  method 
and  the  work  now  done  by  the  Pasteur  Institutes  is  the  practical  applica- 
tion of  his  methods.  Pasteur  was  an  eminent  French  chemist  and  began  his 
search  for  the  cause  and  cure  of  this  disease  in  188(1  and  in  1886  he  considered 
that  the  inoculation  of  people  as  a preventive  of  this  disease  was  a justifiable 
experiment.  During  the  years  between  1880  and  1886  he  proved  by  experi- 
ments that  the  lower  animals  could  be  protected  in  this  way  from  the  disease. 
As  a result  of  these  experiments  on  animals  he  concluded  that  he  was  justi- 
fied in  trying  the  treatment  on  people  and  on  July  6th,  1886  the  first  human 
patient  took  the  first  of  these  treatments.  Between  1878  and  1883,  seventeen 
per  cent,  of  the  cases  of  hydrophobia  proved  fatal.  This  was  before  the  time 
of  the  Pasteur  treatment.  The  records  of  the  Pasteur  Institute  in  Paris 
for  the  years  1886,  1887  and  the  first  half  of  1888  show  that  during  this 
time  5374  persons  took  this  treatment  under  the  supervision  of  Pasteur.  Each 
of  these  persons  had  been  bitten  by  an  animal  either  proven  or  suspected 
of  being  mad.  The  death  rate  for  all  in  1886  was  one  and  thirty-four  one- 
hundredths  per  cent.,  for  1887  it  was  one  and  twelve  one-hundredths  per 
cent,  and  in  1888  it  was  seventy-seven  one-hundredths  of  one  per  cent.  With 
later  changes  that  have  been  made  in  the  methods  of  treatment  the  death 
rate  of  all  treated  has  been  reduced  to  three-tenths  of  one  per  cent. 

The  Pasteur  treatment  must  be  taken  before  the  development  of  the  dis- 
ease. After  the  first  symptoms  of  the  disease  appear  the  treatment  is  of 
no  value.  If  the  disease  developed  at  once  after  being  bitten  it  would  be  im- 
possible to  carry  out  the  Pasteur  treatment.  But,  as  has  been  previously 
said,  the  disease  is  generally  from  three  to  six  months  in  developing  and  the 


INFECTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


93 


patient  takes  advantage  of  this  time  to  be  treated.  This  disease  develops 
only  in  the  nerve  tissue  and  is  carried  along  the  nerve  trunks  to  the  brain. 

If  a dog*  which  is  not  naturally  vicious  suddenly  bites,  and  without  ap> 
parent  cause,  it  should  be  tied  up  securely  and  watched  for  several  days  to 
see  if  the  disease  develops  in  the  dog.  Sometimes  the  only  symptom  no- 
ticed at  first  is  a tendency  to  bite  without  sufficient  cause  but  if  watched  for 
several  days  the  stage  of  excitement  and  then  of  paralysis  will  come  on.  If 
the  dog  shows  symptoms  of  madness  during  these  days  of  confinement  the 
wound  should  be  considered  dangerous. 

Cauterizing  or  burning  the  wound  is  a wise  preventive  measure  for  the 
time.  This  is  generally  recognized  as  the  first  and  most  important  preven- 
tive treatment.  There  seems  to  be  some  misunderstanding,  however,  as  to 
the  proper  method  of  doing  this  and  as  to  how  long  a time  may  elapse  after 
the  bite  before  the  burning  will  be  of  no  value.  This  misunderstanding 
seems  to  extend  even  to  the  physicians. 

This  cauterizing  should  not  be  neglected  because  several  hours  have 
passed  since  the  bite.  Of  course  the  sooner  it  is  done  the  better  but  it  will 
sometimes  be  of  value  even  after  two  or  three  days  have  passed  since  the  in- 
fliction of  the  wound.  If  it  has  been  some  time  since  the  bite  the  parts  should 
be  thoroughly  laid  open  and  scrubbed  as  well  as  cauterized.  The  poison  is  in 
the  broken  nerve  trunks  and  does  not  travel  very  rapidly,  hence  the  value  of 
cauterizing  even  at  a late  date. 

The  liberal  use  of  fuming  nitric  acid  is  much  the  best  method  of  cau- 
terizing. Nitric  acid  is  very  penetrating  but  even  with  the  use  of  this  acid 
ten  per  cent,  of  the  animals  experimented  on  die.  Ninety-five  per  cent, 
carbolic  acid  should  be  used  if  there  is  no  nitric  acid  at  hand  but  the  nitric 
acid  is  better.  Whichever  is  used,  the  parts  should  afterwards  be  washed 
well  with  sterile  or  boiled  water.  And  if  the  carbolic  acid  has  been  used 
the  part  should  first  be  washed  with  absolute  alcohol,  then  with  sterile  water 
and  then  a one  to  seven  thousand  bichloride  dressing  should  be  applied.  If 
the  carbolic  acid  is  thoroughly  washed  out  there  will  not  be  the  danger  of 
ulceration  which  frequently  occurs  after  the  use  of  this  acid. 

With  the  application  of  either  of  these  methods  an  occasional  life  may 
be  saved  and  this  is  especially  true  where  the  wounds  are  large  and  a large 
quantity  of  poison  has  been  transmitted.  If  a part  of  the  virus  is  destroyed 
by  burning,  the  Pasteur  treatment  will  be  made  more  certain  for  the  Pasteur 
treatment  alone  might  not  be  enough  to  save  some  cases  where  much  poison 
has  been  inoculated. 

If  there  are  good  grounds  for  believing  that  the  animal  was  mad  the 
patient  should  be  sent  to  a Pasteur  institute  at  once.  It  is  of  great  importance 
that  the  treatment  begin  as  soon  after  inoculation  as  possible.  It  is  not 
best  to  wait  until  the  animal  dies  or  until  experiments  have  been  made  upon 
animals.  Of  course,  if  there  is  a great  deal  of  doubt  as  to  whether  the  animal 
was  mad  one  might  sometimes  be  justified  in  waiting  until  the  result  of  the 
test  has  been  made  known. 

The  entire  head  of  the  animal  supposed  to  be  mad  should  be  sent  at 
once  by  express  to  the  laboratory  of  the  Pasteur  Institute  in  one  of  the 
previously  mentioned  cities.  Or,  it  is  best  to  have  a health  officer  take  it 
personally.  The  brain  will  then  be  examined  and  if  the  test  shows  that  the 
animal  was  mad  the  patient  can  begin  treatment  at  once. 

In  one  of  the  Ann  Arbor  cases  the  brain  was  examined  and  the  dog 


94 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


pronounced  mad  within  twenty  minutes  after  the  head  was  received  and 
within  the  next  hour  and  a half  the  patient  had  begun  her  course  of  preven- 
tive treatment. 

SUMMARY,  OR  WHAT  TO  DO  IF  YOU  ARE  BITTEN  BY  A 

MAD  DOG. 

From  this  article,  then,  we  would  gather  that  if  a person  is  bitten  by  a 
dog  which  he  has  reason  to  believe  is  mad,  he  should  at  once  open  the  wound 
and  cauterize,  or  burn,  it  with  nitric  acid;  or,  if  this  is  not  at  hand  he  should 
use  carbolic  acid.  (Use  a red  hot  iron  if  no  acid  can  be  obtained.)  This 
should  be  done  immediately  but  will  be  of  some  good  even  after  three  days. 
The  patient  should  then  immediately  go  to  one  of  these  institutes  in  one 
of  the  cities  mentioned  at  the  beginning  of  the  article ; or,  at  least  he  should 
send  the  head  of  the  dog  by  express  or  by  person  to  the  same  place  and 
then  if  the  test  shows  that  the  animal  had  hydrophobia  he  himself  should  go 
to  the  institute  without  delay. 

If  a person  is  bitten  by  a dog  and  it  is  very  doubtful  about  its  being 
mad,  the  dog  should  at  once  be  fastened  up  and  watched  for  at  least  seven 
days  unless  symptoms  of  hydrophobia  develop  earlier.  If  the  dog  shows 
symptom.s  v^^ithin  this  time  the  person  bitten  should  lose  no  time  in  going  to 
one  of  these  Pasteur  Institutes  for  treatment.  Do  not  forget  to  save  the  head 
of  the  dog  so  that  it  may  be  examined  and  thus  make  certain  whether  or  not 
it  v/as  mad. 

The  first  symptom  of  this  disease  is  a difficulty  in  swallowing. 

Remember  that  if  you  are  bitten  by  a mad  dog  it  is  too  late  to  do  any- 
thing after  the  first  symptoms  appear.  The  treatment  is  purely  preventive 
so  it  is  best  to  lose,  no  time. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS,  BRONCHIAL 
TUBES  AND  AIR  PASSAGES. 


(Diseases  of  Respiration.) 

Description  of  Organs. — In  order  to  locate  correctly  the  organs  of  res- 
piration, or  the  organs  used  in  breathing,  it  will  be  necessary v and  con- 
venient to  also  locate  two  or  three  organs  that  do  not  belong  to  this  system, 
like  the  gullet  and  tonsils,  for  instance. 

In  front,  the  roof  of  the  mouth  is  called  the  hard  palate  and  behind  it 
is  called  the  soft  palate.  The  hard  palate  is  continuous  with  the  soft  palate. 
The  soft  palate  is  a movable  fold  of  flesh  hanging  or  suspended  from  the 
back  border  of  the  hard  palate.  Hanging  from  the  middle  of  the  lower  border 
of  the  soft  palate  above  the  root  of  the  tongue  is  a soft,  fleshy  mass  called 
the  pendulum  of  the  palate  or  the  uvula.  This  is  plainly  seen  upon  looking 
into  the  mouth.  Arching  downward  and  outward  from  the  base  of  the  uvula 
on  each  side  are  two  curved  folds  of  mucous  membrane  called  the  “ arches  ” 
or  “ pillars  ” of  the  soft  palate  or  pillars  of  the  fauces.  The  space  left 
between  these  arches  or  pillars  is  called  the  isthmus  of  the  fauces.  The 
‘‘  fauces  ” is  the  opening  which  is  between  the  mouth  in  front  and  the  pharynx 
behind.  The  arches  or  pillars  are  on  both  sides  of  the  fauces  and  the  uvula 
or  pendulum  hangs  down  into  it.  As  before  stated  there  are  two  arches 
or  pillars  on  each  side  and  between  the  two  are  the  tonsils,  one  on  each 
side  of  the  fauces.  The  surface  of  the  tonsils  toward  the  pharynx  has  from 
twelve  to  fifteen  openings  each  leading  into  a small  opening  or  crypt.  From 
these  crypts  or  openings  there  are  numerous  follicles  branching  out  into 
the  substance  of  the  tonsils  by  very  irregular  channels.  The  pharynx  is  the 
opening  or  box  which  lies  behind  the  fauces.  It  is  a part  of  the  alimentary 
canal  and  from  it  are  passages  leading  to  the  mouth,  nose,  ears  and  oesophagus 
or  gullet.  The  larynx  also  opens  into  the  phar}mx. 

The  oesophagus  or  gullet  extends  from  the  pharynx  to  the  stomach  and 
enters  or  connects  with  the  stomach  at  a point  opposite  the  tenth  dorsal 
vertebra.  It  is  from  nine  to  ten  inches  long.  It  is  a part  of  the  alimentary 
canal  and  of  course  belongs  to  the  digestive  apparatus  instead  of  the  breath- 
ing apparatus.  It  is  the  tube  down  which  the  food  goes  from  the  throat  to 
the  stomach. 

The  larynx  is  the  voice  box  where  sounds  are  made.  It  is  four  and  a 
half  inches  long  and  is  situated  between  the  base  of  the  tongue  and  the 
trachea  or  windpipe.  It  forms  a projection  in  front  called  the  “ Adam's 
apple  ” and  this  moves  distinctly  when  we  swallow.  The  larynx  is  really 
an  enlargement  at  the  upper  end  of  the  windpipe.  Across  it  are  stretched 
the  vocal  cords  which  produce  the  voice. 

The  trachea,  or  windpipe,  extends  from  the  lower  part  of  the  larynx,  on 
a level  with  the  sixth  cervical  vertebra,  to  opposite  the  fourth  or  fifth  dorsal  ' 
vertebra.  Here  it  divides  into  two  bronchi,  or  tubes,  called  bronchial  tubes. 


96 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


One  goes  to  each  lung.  The  right  one  is  larger  but  shorter  than  the  left  one 
and  is  about  an  inch  in  length.  It  enters  the  right  lung  opposite  the  fifth 
dorsal  vertebra.  The  left  tube  is  smaller  but  longer  than  the  right  one, 
being  nearly  two  inches  long.  It  enters  the  root  of  the  left  lung  about  an 
inch  lower  than  the  right  tube  enters  the  right  lung  or  opposite  the  sixth 
dorsal  vertebra. 

The  pleura  covers  each  lung  upon  its  outer  surface  as  far  as  its  root 
and  is  then  reflected  upon  the  inner  surface  of  the  chest.  Between  these 
two  layers  is  the  cavity  of  the  pleura  and  it  contains  a very  little  clear  fluid. 
Each  pleura  is  a separate  and  a closed  sac.  In  a healthy  condition  the  two 
layers  of  each  pleura  are  in  contact.  Pleurisy  is  a disease  or  inflammation 
of  the  pleura. 

The  lungs  are  the  organs  of  respiration  and  are  two  in  number.  They 
are  placed  one  on  each  side  of  the  chest.  The  right  lung  has  three  lobes 
and  the  left  but  two.  The  bronchial  tubes  divide  and  sub-divide  into  many 
small  air  passages  in  the  lungs  and  these  finally  end  in  the  air  cells.  The  tissue 
between  these  cells  contains  many  small  blood  vessels  where  the  blood  cir- 
culates and  is  purified  by  giving  off  its  poisons  to  the  air  and  taking  in  oxygen 
from  the  air. 

WHOOPING  COUGH. 

Pertussis. 

Description. — This  is  an  acute,  specific,  infectious  disease.  It  is  also 
contagious.  It  occurs  most  frequently  between  the  first  and  second  years 
and  next  most  frequently  between  the  sixth  and  twelfth  months.  It  is  par- 
ticularly a disease  of  childhood  but  may  attack  persons  of  any  age.  A per- 
son very  seldom  has  the  disease  more  than  once.  The  death  rate  is  great- 
est during  the  first  year,  being  about  twenty  per  cent.  Between  the  first  and 
fifth  years  the  death  rate  is  about  five  per  cent.  The  occurrence  of  pneu- 
monia in  children  under  two  years  of  age  adds  to  the  death  rate. 

SYMPTOMS — First  or  Beginning  Stages. — It  begins  with  what  seems 
to  be  a cold  with  a cough  which  is  worse  at  night.  This  cough  becomes 
more  and  more  troublesome  no  matter  what  treatment  is  used.  After  four 
or  five  days  there  may  be  vomiting  and  especially  after  eating.  As  time 
goes  on  the  coughing  lasts  longer  each  time  and  the  patient  becomes  red  in 
the  face  and  spits  up  a large  amount  of  mucus.  This  period  without  whoop- 
ing may  last  ten  or  twelve  days.  Some  cases  have  but  very  little  of  the 
whooping.  There  is  some  fever  during  the  first  few  days. 

Second  or  Spasmodic  Stage. — The  whoop  now  appears  and  this  is  a 
distinguishing  feature  of  the  disease.  The  cough  is  very  spasmodic  and 
occurs  in  paroxysms  beginning  with  the  drawing  in  of  the  breath  and  is 
marked  by  a loud  crowing  sound  called  the  whoop.  The  number  of  these 
spells  of  coughing  generally  increases  and  the  patient  may  have  from  20 
to  100  in  24  hours.  This  second  stage  of  the  disease  may  last  two  or  three 
weeks. 

Third  Stage  or  Stage  of  Decline. — The  number  of  fits  of  coughing  de- 
creases and  the  cough  is  less  severe.  The  spells  of  coughing  may  stop  grad- 
ually or  suddenly  after  from  four  to  twelve  weeks.  The  whoop  may  re- 
appear at  times  afterwards.  After  the  whoop  has  disappeared  the  cough 
may  continue  for  some  time,  especially  if  the  disease  occurs  during  the  fall 
months.  In  young  persons  the  lungs  may  become  affected  so  that  the  child 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


97 


gets  pneumonia  or  bronchitis.  Whooping  cough  generally  lasts  for  two 
months,  more  or  less. 

TREATMENT.— 

“ What  To  Do.” — Give  good  nursing,  keep  the  bowels  open  and  be  on 
the  watch  for  symptoms  of  pneumonia  or  bronchitis.  Immediately  attend 
to  any  fever  that  appears  or  continues  going  higher. 

” What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  over  feed.  Do  not  let  the  bowels  become 
constipated.  Do  not  let  the  child  take  cold  or  serious  consequences  may 
follow. 

Medical  Treatment. — As  a general  thing  the  medical  treatment  is  un- 
satisfactory unless  dangerous  medicines  are  used.  Antipyrin  is  used  in  large 
doses  and  so  is  quinine  but  the  doses  are  so  large  that  I consider  them  in- 
jurious. Belladonna  is  also  used  in  doses  large  enough  to  produce  a rash  on 
the  skin.  I cannot  advise  this  in  such  doses.  I consider  Vapo-Cresoline  one 
of  the  best  remedies  and  the  directions  for  its  use  will  be  given  under  “ Nurs- 
ing.” Teas  made  from  clover  blossoms  and  from  green  chestnut  leaves  are 
also  very  good. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  third  dilution  of  Belladonna,  the  third 
trituration  of  Cuprum  and  also  Drosera  are  much  used  by  Homeopaths.  For 
this  disease  I cannot  say  that  I have  found  the  homeopathic  medicines  as 
beneficial  as  in  many  other  diseases. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — The  patient  should  be  dressed  warmly  and  comfort- 
ably. Children  should  be  fed  frequently  and  in  small  amounts  and  the  food 
should  be  liquid.  When  the  disease  is  attended  with  much  fever  it  should 
receive  prompt  attention  as  this  indicates  bronchitis  or  pneumonia.  Medi- 
cine will  help  the  complications  or  accompanying  diseases  more  than  it  will 
the  whooping  cough.  In  summer  it  is  best  for  the  children  to  be  out  of  doors. 
In  winter  they  should  be  kept  in  a warm  and  well  ventilated  room  with  the 
temperature  at  about  70  degrees.  The  air  should  be  moistened  by  liberating 
in  the  room  small  quantities  of  steam  from  a kettle  of  boiling  water  or  from 
a croup  kettle  or  by  dropping  pieces  of  unslacked  lime  into  a bucket  of  water. 
When  it  is  not  possible  to  keep  the  child  in  an  evenly  heated  room,  a most 
excellent  method,  particularly  in  those  cases  where  the  attacks  are  frequent 
at  night,  is  to  place  the  child  in  a bronchitis  or  croup  tent  as  described  in  the 
Nursing  Department. 

Vapo-Cresoline. — This  is  the  best  remedy  I have  ever  used.  It  can  be 
bought  at  any  drug  store  and  the  directions  are  on  a circular  which  comes 
wrapped  around  the  bottle.  Vapo-Cresoline  is  to  be  burned  in  the  closed 
sleeping  room,  at  night  when  the  patient  goes  to  bed.  This  allows  the  patient 
to  sleep  well  and  it  is  not  dangerous.  I have  used  it  many  times  during  the  last 
15  years  and  it  has  never  failed  me.  If  you  wish,  you  can  buy  the  lamp  that 
goes  with  it  or  you  can  use  a common  lamp  and  make  a wire  holder  for  the 
granite  cup  and  place  it  on  top  of  the  chimney  high  enough  so  that  the  lamp 
does  not  smoke.  Put  the  vapo-cresoline  in  the  cup  to  the  depth  of  about  one- 
fourth  an  inch.  If  more  is  needed  it  can  be  added  later.  Light  the  lamp  in  the 
closed  sleeping  room  about  10  minutes  before  the  patient  goes  to  bed.  Leave 
no  windows  open  or  the  vapor  will  all  escape.  Remove  all  clothes  from  the 
room  or  they  will  retain  the  odor  for  a long  time.  This  treatment  is  good  for 
either  children  or  grown  people  who  are  suffering  with  whooping  cough. 

After  Effects. — Bronchitis  and  pneumonia  often  come  during  or  after 
whooping  cough  and  the  patient  should  be  very  careful  not  to  take  cold  or 
7 


i^<s  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 

one  of  these  diseases  may  be  the  result.  If  not  properly  cared  for,  the 
patient  may  be  left  in  a weakened  condition  and  thus  be  more  subject  to 
consumption.  Indigestion  and  diarrhea  are  other  after  effects  and  attention 
should  be  paid  to  the  diet.  Sometimes  there  are  convulsions  and  paralysis. 
PEOPLE^S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Chestnut  Leaf  Tea. — This  is  probably  the  best  remedy  known  for 
whooping  cough.  To  a pint  of  boiling  water  add  a handful  of  the  green 
leaves,  steep,  sweeten,  and  when  cool  let  the  child  drink  of  the  tea  five  or 
six  times  a day. 

2.  Clover  Blossom  Tea. — Gather  red  clover  blossoms,  make  a tea  of 
them  and  drink  it  freely.  This  is  both  a preventive  and  a cure. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Dr.  Hartshorn  in  his  book  advocates  the  use  of 
clover  tea  and  especially  a tea  made  from  green  chestnut  leaves.  These  are 
claimed  to  be  very  good  and  a good  feature  of  them  is  that  they  cannot  injure 
the  child  as  is  sometimes  done  with  strong  drugs. 

3.  Licorice,  Butter,  Sulphur,  Etc. — Mix  equal  parts  of  licorice,  sulphur, 
fresh  butter  and  spermaceti.  This  may  be  taken  freely. 

4.  Pine  Boughs,  Wintergreen  and  Sweet  Oil. — Boil  some  pine  boughs, 
wintergreen  and  sweet  oil  and  use  the  solution. 

5.  Ammonia. — One  of  the  best  remedies  is  to  boil  some  strong  ammonia 
in  the  room  and  let  the  child  inhale  the  fumes. 

6.  Turpentine. — A physician  of  Vienna  recommends  the  placing  of 
twenty  drops  of  oil  of  turpentine  on  a handkerchief  and  holding  it  before  the 
child’s  face  while  it  takes  30  or  40  deep  breaths. 

7.  Peach  Leaves. — Make  a tea  of  peach  leaves  by  adding  an  ounce  of 
the  leaves  to  a pint  of  cold  water  and  allowing  to  stand  until  the  water  has 
taken  part  of  their  strength.  Give  a tablespoonful  every  hour  or  two. 

8.  Skunk  Cabbage. — The  tincture  made  of  the  fresh  root  of  skunk  cab- 
bage is  good  for  whooping  cough.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 drams. 

9.  Maiden  Hair  Tea. — A tea  made  of  maiden  hair  will  be  found  an  ex- 
cellent remedy  for  whooping  cough. 

COLDS,  COUGHS  AND  HOARSENESS. 

(Acute  Coryza.) 

The  symtoms  are  too  well  known  to  need  description. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Keep  the  children  well  clothed  and  out  of  doors  as  much  as 
possible.  Have  ventilation  in  the  sleeping  rooms  so  that  plenty  of  fresh  air 
can  enter.  The  temperature  of  the  house  should  be  from  68  to  70  ^degrees. 
Begin  out  door  treatment  in  the  summer  and  sleep  with  plenty  of  Tesli  air 
during  the  whole  year.  Use  cold  sponging  upon  rising  in  the  morning  and 
especially  upon  the  chest,  throat  and  spine.  Wear  flannel  underclothing  on 
the  chest  all  year  and  on  the  limbs  in  winter.  This  applies  particularly  to 
children.  The  underwear  should  be  medium  weight  in  winter  and  lighter 
in  summer.  Give  cod  liver  oil  to  weak  children  to  build  them  up  so  they  will 
not  take  cold  easily.  Do  not  use  chest  protectors,  cotton  pads  or  extremely 
thick  clothing  on  children.  If  a child  is  subject  to  frequent  colds,  see  if 
there  are  adenoids  in  the  pharynx,  or  throat.  To  avoid  taking  cold  always 
change  wet  clothing  immediately.  Do  not  get  to  sweating  and  then  sit 
down  to  cool  off  and  do  not  stay  in  a poorly  ventilated  room  and  breathe  the 
same  air  over  and  over. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


91^ 

“What  to  Do.” — Grease  the  nose,  throat,  face  and  chest  with  sweet  oil, 
lard,  camphor  or  camphorated  oil  twice  daily.  Keep  the  bowels  open  and  if 
necessary  sweat  the  patient. 

“ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  wear  chest  protectors  or  cotton  pads.  Do 
not  do  anything’  that  will  make  you  take  more  cold  as  serious  diseases  some- 
times follow  when  the  system  is  run  down  from  a bad  cold. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Foi  an  adult,  at  the  beginning  if  there  is  fever, 
give  from  % to  1 drop  of  aconite  every  two  to  four  hours.  Stop  when  the 
throat  feels  dry  and  contracted.  At  night  give  hot  lemonade  and  10  grains 
of  Dover’s  powder.  You  can  also  give  1/100  of  a grain  of  biniodide  of  mercury 
with  the  aconite.  Give  every  1 to  3 hours  according  to  the  age. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — At  first  give  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite. 
Put  10  to  15  drops  in  a glass  half  full  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every 
half  hour  to  three  hours  according  to  the  age  of  the  patient. 

Give  tincture  of  camphor,  1 drop  every  1 to  3 hours,  where  there  is  much 
sneezing  and  water  keeps  dropping  from  the  nose. 

When  the  nose  is  stopped  up  and  there  is  sneezing  and  hot  burning 
water  coming  from  the  nose  give  the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum.  Give 
one  tablet  every  1 to  3 hours. 

If  there  is  a thick  discharge  give  the  third  trituration  of  Mercurius  Sol. 
Give  1 tablet  every  1 to  3 hours. 

Also  frequently  rub  on  the  outside  a salve  made  with  camphor  and  cream. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Onion  Poultices,  Etc.,  for  Cold  on  the  Lungs. — Make  a poultice  of 
onions  fried  in  lard  and  lay  on  the  chest.  Soak  the  feet  in  as  hot  water  as 
can  be  borne  and  drink  a glass  of  hot  lemonade  and,  if  you  have  it,  a little 
senna  tea  before  going  to  bed. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Lemonade  will  cause  sweating,  senna  will  move 
the  bowels  and  the  onions  will  loosen  the  cold  by  drawing  the  congestion 
from  the  lungs. 

2.  Camphor  and  Sugar  for  Cold  in  Head. — One  of  the  very  best  reme- 
dies for  a cold  in  the  head  is  to  put  one  or  tw^o  drops  of  spirits  of  camphor 
on  a lump  of  sugar,  dissolve  the  sugar  in  half  a glass  of  w^ater  and  take  a 
teaspoonful  every  two  hours. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Camphor  wdll  frequently  stop  a cold  if  taken  at  the 
beginning. 

3.  Castor  Oil,  Molasses,  Etc.,  for  Snuffles  or  Cold  in  Plead. — Keep  the 
bowels  open  wdth  castor  oil  and  molasses  and  grease  the  nostrils  with  mutton 
suet,  sweet  oil  or  lard. 

4.  Sage,  Pennyroyal  or  Balm  Tea. — Keep  the  bowels  open  and  give 
a dose  of  sage,  pennyroyal  or  balm  tea. 

5.  Camphorated  Olive  Oil. — Relief  is  often  obtained  by  rubbing  the 
nose  with  camphorated  olive  oil. 

6.  Onion  Syrup. — Give  onion  syrup  made  as  follows. — Slice  an  onion 
into  a granite  basin  and  add  1 tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a small  lump  of 
butter  and  simmer  on  the  stove  until  thoroughly  cooked  and  give  a tea- 
spoonful  or  tw^o  of  the  juice  ever}^  little  while.  Sometimes  it  is  necessary  to 
add  a little  water. 

7.  Skunk’s  Oil. — Applied  to  the  throat  and  lungs  this  is  a good  remedy 
for  s cold  on  the  lungs.  Sometimes  it  is  given  internally  in  small  doses. 

8.  Peppermint  and  Suet. — Two  or  three  drops  of  peppermint  mixed 


100 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


with  an  equal  amount  of  suet  and  rubbed  over  the  baby’s  chest  gives  quick 
relief  in  case  of  a cough  or  cold  on  the  lungs. 

9.  Elder  Flowers  and  Honey. — A remedy  which  comes  from  Russia  pre- 
scribes a tea  made  from  elder  flowers  and  sweetened  with  honey.  Either  fresh 
or  dried  flowers  may  be  used.  Cover  up  warmly  in  bed  and  drink  freely  of  the 
tea  to  induce  sweating. 

10.  Camphor,  Turpentine,  Kerosene  and  Lard  for  Colds,  Coughs  and 
Croup. — The  following  is  excellent  for  these  ailments.  Saturate  a flannel  in  a 
mixture  of  one  part  each  of  spirits  of  camphor  and  turpentine  and  two  parts 
each  of  kerosene  and  lard.  Apply  warm  to  the  throat  and  chest. 

11.  Balm  of  Gilead  Buds,  Honey  and  Lemon  Juice. — To  a quart  of 
water  add  two  ounces  of  balm  of  Gilead  buds,  simmer  down  to  a pint,  strain 
and  add  a pound  of  comb  honey  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Boil  together 
until  the  wax  in  the  honey  is  dissolved.  This  will  cure  coughs  of  long  stand- 
ing. 

12.  Borax  and  Sugar. — For  a cold  in  the  head  nothing  is  better  than 
powdered  borax  snuffed  up  the  nose.  Some  add  a little  pulverized  sugar. 
Some  also  dissolve  a tablespoonful  of  borax  in  a pint  of  water  and  snuff  this 
borax  \Vater  two  or  three  times  a day. 

13.  Hot  Lemonade. — Take  just  before  going  to  bed.  This  is  an  old  and 
tried  remedy  for  a cold. 

14.  Camphor. — A little  camphor  snuffed  up  the  nose  relieves  a cold  in 
the  head  almost  instantly. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  camphor  tends  to  dry  up  the  secretion  and  is 
a very  good  remedy. 

15.  Hot  Roasted  Onion. — Eat  a hot  roasted  onion  or  onion  syrup  before 
going  to  bed.  The  onion  is  a fine  thing  for  colds. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  onion  syrup  is  better  for  a cough. 

16.  Hot  Foot  Bath  and  Hot  Lemonade. — Bathe  the  feet  in  hot  water 
and  drink  a teacupful  of  hot  lemonade  before  going  to  bed. 

17.  Salt,  Sugar  and  Water. — In  the  first  stage  a cold  may  be  cured  by 
eating  a mixture  of  % salt  and  % sugar  and  then  drinking  all  the  water  that 
the  salt  and  sugar  cause  you  to  want,  as  both  cause  thirst. 

18.  Lard,  Camphor,  Turpentine,  Kerosene,  Etc. — For  children  give  a 
warm  bath,  being  careful  to  let  no  cold  air  strike  the  child.  Rub  the  chest, 
arm  pits  and  soles  of  the  feet  with  a preparation  of  tallow  or  lard,  a small 
piece  of  camphor  gum,  1 teaspoonful  of  kerosene.  Vs  spoonful  of  turpentine 
and  spoonful  of  quinine,  melted  together  slowly.  If  the  cold  is  severe  wet 
a flannel  cloth  with  the  preparation  and  place  over  the  chest  then  put  the 
child  to  bed  and  cover  closely.  Morning  should  find  the  child  much  better. 

19.  Turpentine,  Ammonia,  Etc. — Cold  in  Throat  and  Lungs. — Add  to  a 
small  lump  of  lard  a little  of  each  of  the  following:  camphor,  turpentine,  coal 
oil  and  ammonia.  Heat  these  together  and  apply  to  the  surface  hot  and  then 
cover  with  a flannel  cloth. 

20.  Sulphur  for  the  Throat  and  Bronchial  Tubes. — For  a tickling  in  the 
throat  or  a chronic  affection  of  the  bronchial  tubes  take  5 or  10  grains  of 
dry  sulphur  into  the  mouth  on  the  back  part  of  the  tongue  and  retain  it  there 
for  a long  time  swallowing  but  a little  at  a time. 

21.  Diet  for  a Cold. — When  yon  discover  you  have  a cold  do  not  eat 
any  supper  and.  upon  retiring  early  in  the  evening,  drink  at  least  a pint  of 
cold  water.  Keep  comfortably  warm  for  at  least  three  days  if  possible.  Eat 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


101 


raw  apples  as  your  principal  diet.  Do  not  over  eat  and  abstain  from  meat  and 
pastry  entirely.  A cold  should  be  starved. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Water  and  apples  are  laxative  and  cleansing. 

22.  Sweating  for  Severe  Cold  and  Congestion. — Have  the  patient  sit  in 
a tub  of  water  as  warrri  as  he  can  bear.  (A  sitz  bath  is  best  but  any  tub 
will  do.)  Place  the  feet  in  a large  pail  of  hot  water  and  pin  heavy  woolen 
blankets  or  other  bed  clothing  around  the  neck.  Place  a towel  wet  in  cold 
water  on  the  head.  Frequently  give  the  patient  cold  water  to  drink.  Keep 
adding  hot  water  to  the  tub  and  keep  the  patient  in  the  bath  until  he  sweats  and 
feels  relaxed.  Have  plenty  of  towels  ready.  When  you  take  him  out,  while 
he  stands  in  the  tub,  sponge  him  off  very  quickly  with  water  with  the  chill 
taken  off  and  rub  briskly  with  towels  and  immediately  put  to  bed  in  a warm 
room.  There  should  be  one  or  more  attendants  if  possible.  The  bed  should 
not  be  cold  and  the  patient  should  be  covered  warmly  and  allowed  to  rest. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  a very  fine  treatment  for  colds. 

23.  Horehound  Candy. — Dissolve  about  two  sticks  of  horehound  candy 
half  a cup  of  boiling  water  and  drink  w^hile  hot  before  going  to  bed. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Horehound  is  an  expectorant  and  is  good  for  a 
cold  on  the  chest. 

24.  Wild  Cherry  Bark  and  Loaf  Sugar. — Put  ten  cents  worth  of  wild 
cherry  bark  into  a quart  of  water  and  boil  down  to  a pint;  add'  a pound  of 
loaf  sugar,  strain  and  take  a teaspoonful  every  half  hour.  This  is  fine. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Wild  cherry  is  a sedative  and  reduces  the  cough 
and  is  an  expectorant,  and  diminishes  nervous  irritability. 

25.  Quinine  and  Grease. — For  babies,  rub  with  quinine  and  grease. 

26.  Hot  Lemonade  and  Flaxseed. — Hot  lemonade  with  flaxseed  sim- 
mered in  it  for  half  an  hour,  then  strained  and  sweetened,  is  an  excellent  rem- 
edy. Take  just  before  going  to  bed  as  it  produces  sweating. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Lemonade  causes  sweating  and  flaxseed  is  soothing 
and  laxative. 

27.  Camphor. — Put  nine  drops  of  camphor  into  half  a glass  of  water 
and  give  one  teaspoonful  every  fifteen  minutes. 

28.  Hot  Towel  for  Congestion  of  the  Lungs. — Fold  a large  towel  several 
times,  wring  out  of  hot  water,  and  quickly  apply  to  the  chest.  Change  as 
often  as  it  becomes  cool. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  draws  the  blood  from  the  lungs  to  the  sur- 
face and  thus  relieves  the  congestion. 

29.  Lard,  Ammonia  and  Camphor  for  Congestion  of  Lungs. — To  two 
parts  of  lard  add  one  part  of  ammonia,  heat  the  mixture,  snread  on  cotton 
batting  and  apply  to  chest.  Also  mix  some  camphor  with  this. 

30.  Camphorated  Lard  for  Congestion,  Lung  Fever  or  Cold  on  the 
Lungs. — Take  four  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  melt  and  stir  in  five  cents  worth 
of  gum  camphor.  Apply  to  the  chest  and  throat  and  cover  wffh  flannel. 
“ The  doctor  cured  my  granddaughter  of  lung  fever  with  this  application,” 
says  one  mother. 

31.  Antiphlogistine. — Apply  antiphlogistine  to  the  chest. 

32.  Lard  and  Quinine. — For  congestion  of  the  lungs  add  a good-sized 
powder  of  quinine  to  one  teaspoonful  of  lard,  mix,  and  grease  the  chest 
well  and  also  around  the  arms,  always  rubbing  downward;  then  heat  woolen 
cloths  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  and  lay  across  the  chest. 


102 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


33.  Onion  Poultices. — Make  hot  poultices  of  onions  and  apply  all  over 
the  chest.  Apply  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  This  remedy  has  saved  many  lives. 

34.  Pleurisy  Root,  Etc. — Take  two  ounces  each  of  powdered  pleurisy 
root,  powdered  spearmint  and  powdered  sumach  berries;  one  ounce  each  of 
powdered  bayberry  bark  and  powdered  skunk  cabbage  and  one-half  ounce  of 
powdered  ginger.  Two  teaspoonfuls  of  this  mixture  may  be  steeped  in  one- 
half  pint  of  boiling  water,  sweetened  and  drank  in  wineglassful  doses  every 
hour  or  two.  In  common  colds,  half  a pint  of  the  warm  tea  may  be  taken  at 
once.  Repeat,  if  necessary,  in  an  hour. 

35.  Honey  and  Lemon  Juice. — Flavor  strained  honey  with  lemon  juice 
and  t.ke  a teaspoonful  every  half  hour  for  a cough. 

36.  Honey,  Vinegar  and  Butter. — Heat  together  some  honey  and  vinegar 
and  melt  a little  fresh  butter  in  the  mixture.  Take  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls 
as  often  as  necessary  for  a cough. 

37.  Vinegar,  Molasses,  Honey,  Camphor  and  Ipecac. — Put  four  ounces 
each  of  vinegar,  molasses  and  honey  into  an  earthen  vessel  and  stir  them  well 
while  simmering  for  a few  minutes.  Then  add  a dessert  spoonful  each  of 
compound  tincture  of  camphor  and  ipecac  wine.  Give  a dose  every  four 
hours.  This  makes  an  excellent  cough  syrup. 

38.  Roasted  Lemons. — The  juice  of  a roasted  lemon  sweetened  to  taste 
is  one  of  the  most  excellent  and  effective  remedies  ever  used  for  a cough 
of  long  standing.  The  dose  is  a tablespoonful  every  two  or  three  hours.  This 
remedy  was  given  us  by  an  old  German  lady  who  secured  it  from  her 
physician  in  Germany. 

39.  Honey,  Flaxseed  Oil  and  Whiskey. — Equal  parts  of  honey,  flaxseed 
oil  and  whiskey;  mix,  and  give  a teaspoonful  as  the  cough  requires. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  loosens  .the  cough  and  soothes  the  inflamed 
parts. 

40.  Wild  Cherry  Bark,  Loaf  Sugar  and  Cayenne  Pepper. — Make  a s}TUp 
of  wild  cherry  bark  and  loaf  sugar  with  a little  cayenne  pepper  added. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Wild  cherry  aids  in  getting  rid  of  the  mucus  and 
lessens  the  cough. 

41.  Rum,  Linseed  Oil  and  Molasses. — Equal  parts  of  rum,  linseed  oil 
and  molasses;  one  teaspoonful  three  times  a day.  This  is  for  coughing. 

42.  Vinegar  and  Sugar. — A simple  remedy  for  a cough  or  cold  which 
affects  the  throat  is  5 teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar,  6 teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
1 tumbler  of  water.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  then  take  one  or  two 
swallows  each  time  you  cough  or  once  in  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  until  relieved. 

43.  Onion  Syrup. — Take  1 quart  of  cistern  water,  1 cup  of  sugar  and 
3 small  onions  and  boil  together.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  coughs. 

44.  Glycerine  and  Whiskey.— Take  equal  parts  of  each. 

45.  Licorice,  Linseed  Oil,  Glycerine,  Etc. — One-half  ounce  of  pare- 
goric, 1/2  ounce  of  extract  of  licorice,  Yo  ounce  of  chloroform,  V2  ounce  of 
linseed  oil,  Vo  ounce  of  extract  of  lemon,  1/0  ounce  of  glycerine  and  one  pound 
of  white  sugar.  Take  one  teaspoonful  as  needed  for  a cough.  This  remedy 
is  for  adults  only. 

46.  Vinegar,  Honey,  Molasses,  Horehound,  Etc. — Take  a pint  of  vinegar, 
a teacupfnl  each  of  honey  and  molasses  and  a small  handful  of  bruised 
horehound  leaves.  Simmer  over  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  strain,  squeeze 
out,  and  add  an  ounce  each  of  wine  of  ipecac  and  tincture  of  lobelia.  The  dose 
is  a teaspoonful  or  two  as  often  as  required  for  a cough. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


108 


47.  Whiskey,  Glycerine  and  Rock  Candy. — Take  % pint  of  whiskey, 
4 ounces  of  glycerine  and  1 ounce  of  rock  candy.  The  dose  is  a teaspoonful 
three  or  four  times  a day  or  when  the  cough  is  troublesome.  A lady  living 
in  Alliance,  Ohio,  writes  that  this  is  the  only  medicine  that  has  ever  helped 
her. 

48.  Molasses,  Sugar,  Lemon,  Glycerine,  Etc. — Take  1 cup  of  molasses, 

1 tablespoonful  of  dark  brown  sugar  and  1 lemon,  rind  and  all,  cut  very  fine. 
Let  all  boil  over  a slow  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken  ; then  remove  from 
the  fire  and  add  1 tablespoonful  of  glycerine  and  enough  good  vinegar  to 
make  it  taste  sharp.  Take  a teaspoonful  when  you  cough.  This  is  fine. 

49.  Molasses,  Sulphur,  Cayenne  Pepper  and  Sweet  Cream. — Take  % 
cup  of  molasses,  1 large  teaspoonful  of  sulphur,  14  teaspoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  3 large  spoonfuls  of  sweet  cream.  Take  a little  in  the  mouth 
and  swallow  slowly  whenever  the  cough  is  troublesome. 

50.  Licorice,  Gum  Arabic  and  Loaf  Sugar. — Take  2 ounces  of  gum 
arabic,  3 ounces  of  licorice  and  3 ounces  of  loaf  sugar  and  dissolve  all  in  1 
quart  of  boiling  water.  Take  2 tablespoonfuls  3 times  a day.  “ I have  used 
this  for  children  and  find  it  heals  and  cures  the  cough,”  says  a mother  living 
in  McKees  Rocks,  Pa. 

51.  Glycerine,  Rock  Candy  and  Whiskey. — One-half  pint  of  glycerine, 
1/2  pound  of  rock  candy  and  I/2  pint  of  whiskey.  Pour  the  whiskey  on  the 
candy  and  let  the  same  dissolve,  then  pour  in  the  glycerine.  Shake  well 
before  using.  Take  every  two  hours  until  the  cough  is  relieved. 

52.  Dr.  Leonard’s  Cough  Syrup. — One-half  ounce  of  laudanum,  1 ounce  of 
spirits  of  nitre,  1 ounce  of  tincture  of  blood  root,  2 ounces  of  syrup  of  squills, 

2 ounces  of  essence  of  wintergreen  and  1 pint  of  honey.  Dose,  1 teaspoonful 
three  or  four  times  a day.  This  is  known  as  Dr.  Leonard’s  Cough  Syrup  and 
is  fine.  (For  adults.) 

53.  Cough  Syrup. — Take  equal  parts  of  the  following  herbs  and  steep 

to  make  a tea — everlasting,  catnip,  thoroughwort,  pennyroyal  and  mullein. 

Cook  as  much  sugar  and  molasses,  half  of  each,  with  the  tea  as  you  have 

tea.  Boil  until  a syrup  is  formed.  Take  a teaspoonful  at  a time.  If  the 
cough  is  bad  take  every  little  while.  “ This  is  fine,”  says  a lady  living  in 
Greenville,  Rhode  Island. 

54.  Sugar  and  Ginger. — Take  equal  parts  of  dry  sugar  and  ginger,  mix 
well  and  take  a little  when  the  cough  is  troublesome  and  especially  at  night. 

55.  Salt  and  White  of  Egg. — Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  stiff,  add  a small 
pinch  of  salt  and  take  a teaspoonful  when  the  cough  annoys. 

56.  Horehound,  Glycerine  and  Rock  Candy. — Take  five  cents  worth 
each  of  glycerine,  rock  candy  and  horehound  drops.  Put  the  rock  candy 
and  drops  on  the  stove  with  a little  water  and  simmer  until  dissolved,  then 
add  the  glycerine.  Make  about  % of  a pint  in  all.  Give  a teaspoonful  every 
two  or  three  hours  until  relieved  from  the  coughing.  This  is  very  good. 

57.  Horehound,  Paregoric  and  Brown  Sugar. — Take  five  cents  worth 

of  horehound  leaves,  1 ounce  of  paregoric,  1 pound  of  brown  sugar  and  1 

quart  of  water.  Steep  the  horehound  in  the  water,  then  strain  and  boil  with 
the  sugar  until  reduced  to*  one  pint  and  when  cool  add  the  paregoric. 
Bottle  for  use  in  coughs. 

58.  Garlic  Juice. — Take  garlic  juice.  The  dose  is  half  a dram.  This  is 
also  good  for  nervous  and  spasmodic  coughs  in  children.  The  bruised  bulbs, 


104 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


applied  as  a poultice  on  the  chest  and  spine,  are  very  good  for  children  with 
pneumonia. 

59.  Onion  Juice. — Onion  juice  mixed  with  syrup  is  very  good  for 
coughs  and  colds  on  the  chest  of  a child. 

60.  Marshmallow  Tea. — Marshmallow  root  made  into  a strong  decoc- 
tion by  using  2 ounces  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  boiling  water  and  then  drank 
freely  is  good  for  coughs  and  hoarseness. 

61.  Sunflower  Seeds,  Gin  and  Sugar. — Put  two  pounds  of  bruised  sun- 
flower seeds  into  5 gallons  of  water,  boil  down  to  3 gallons,  strain,  and  add 
12  pounds  of  sugar  and  1%  gallons  of  Holland  gin.  The  dose  is  from  2 
drams  to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day  or  oftener  for  a cough,  tickling  in  the 
throat,  etc. 

62.  Wild  Cherry  Syrup. — Syrup  of  wild  cherry  is  very  good.  This  is 
for  coughing  and  hoarseness. 

63.  Flaxseed  Tea. — Steep  % ounce  of  unbruised  flaxseed  in  % pint  of 
boiling  water.  Fine  for  coughs. 

64.  Comfrey  and  Indian  Turnip. — Take  3 parts  of  comfrey  root  and  1 
part  of  green  Indian  turnip  root,  bruise  together  into  a fine  paste  and  add 
2 parts  of  refined  sugar  and  mix  thoroughly.  A tablespoonful  of  this  may 
be  eaten  three  or  four  times  a day. 

65.  Lung  Balsam. — First.  Take  of  the  roots  of  spikenard,  elecampane, 
comfrey  and  blood  root,  of  the  leaves -of  horehound,  and  of  the  bark  of  wild 
cherry,  of  each  1 pound ; grind  and  mix  the  articles  together.  Place  all  in  a 
vessel,  cover  them  with  76  per  cent,  alcohol  and  let  them  steep  for  3 days. 
Then  transfer  the  whole  to  a filter  (use  filter  paper  and  funnel)  and  gradually 
add  hot  water  until  3 pints  of  the  alcoholic  tincture  have  been  obtained  which 
retain  and  set  aside. 

Second.  Continue  the  process  and. of  this  second  solution  reserve  as 
much  as  contains  a sensible  amount  of  spirits  and  evaporate  the  alcohol 
from  it. 

Third.  Continue  the  filtering  of  the  rest  by  adding  hot  water  until  the 
solution  obtained  is  almost  tasteless  and  boil  this  down  until  when  added 
to  the  second,  after  the  evaporation  of  its  alcohol,  it  will  make  18  pints. 
To  these  two  solutions  combined,  add  24  pounds  of  refined  sugar  and  dis- 
solve by  heat,  removing  any  scum.  If  it  exceeds  24  pints,  evaporate  to  that 
amount  with  constant  stirring.  Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  when  nearly 
cold  add  the  3 pints  of  first  solution  set  aside  and  make  3 gallons  of  syrup. 
This  is  good  for  obstinate  coughs,  bronchitis  and  lung  affections  generally. 
The  dose  is  V2  ounce  3 times  a day. 

66.  Horseradish,  Boneset,  Etc. — The  following  makes  a good  syrup  for 
coughs,  colds,  hoarseness,  chronic  irritation  of  the  throat  and  fevers.  Fresh 
horseradish  root,  grated,  2 ounces ; boneset,  leaves  and  tops,  1 ounce ; 
Canada  snake  root,  Vo  ounce;  refined  sugar,  2 pounds  and  a sufficient  quantity 
of  diluted  vinegar  and  boiling  water.  Directions:  steep  the  boneset  and  snake 
root  in  % pint  of  boiling  water  and  press  with  strong  pressure,  adding  boil- 
ing water  to  the  mass  until  pint  of  the  tea  is  obtained,  then  add  the  sugar 
and  dissolve  with  gentle  heat.  Now  add  the  horseradish  to  % pirit  of  di- 
luted vinegar,  let  stand  2 days  and  then  press,  adding  diluted  cider  vinegar  to 
the  mass  until  % pint  of  the  dilution  is  obtained.  Add  this  to  the  above  syrup 
and  shake.  Dose:  1 to  4 drams  every  2 to  3 hours. 

67.  Boneset,  Horseradish,  Vinegar  and  Molasses. — Put  1 ounce  each  of 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


105 


horseradish  root  and  boneset  leaves  into  1 pint  of  hot  water.  Cover  and  let 
stand  for  2 hours  near  the  fire,  then  add  i/2  pint  of  vinegar  and  molasses 
and  boil  for  15  minutes.  Take  a tablespoonful  every  2 or  3 hours.  For 
coughs  and  hoarseness. 

68.  Borax. — For  hoarseness  let  a piece  of  borax  the  size  of  a pea  dis- 
solve slowly  in  the  mouth,  swallowing  part  of  it.  It  will  give  almost  im- 
mediate relief  for  an  hour  or  two  and  is  used  by  many  of  our  public  speakers. 

69.  White  of  Egg. — Put  the  white  of  an  egg  into  half  a glass  of  warm 
sweetened  water  and  beat  to  a froth.  Used  as  a gargle  this  will  relieve 
hoarseness  and  tickling  of  the  throat. 

70.  Steaming  with  Vinegar  and  Water. — For  sore  throat,  coughing  and 
hoarseness,  steam  the  throat  with  1 part  of  vinegar  to  6 parts  of  water.  Put 
the  vinegar  and  water  into  a teapot  or  teakettle  and  put  one  end  of  a roll 
of  paper  over  the  spout  and  the  other  end  in  the  mouth  and  breathe  it  through 
the  mouth  as  hot  as  possible. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  hot  steam  takes  away  the  inflammation,  re- 
laxes the  membrane  and  thus  causes  it  to  pour  out  its  natural  secretions. 

71.  Hot  Lemonade. — For  colds,  coughs  and  hoarseness,  drink  hot 
lemonade. 

72.  Honey  and  Vinegar. — A little  in  the  mouth  every  little  while  for 
coughs  and  hoarseness. 

73.  Lemon  Juice,  Sugar  and  Glycerine. — Lemon  juice,  squeezed  into  soft 
sugar  until  it  is  like  syrup  and  a few  drops  of  glycerine  added,  relieves  hoarse- 
ness. 

74.  Horseradish,  Vinegar,  Honey,  Etc. — Take  4 ounces  of  grated  fresh 
horseradish  and  let  it  stand  in  a pint  of  good  vinegar  over  night,  then  add 
a pint  of  honey  and  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point,  then  strain  and  squeeze 
out.  Take  1 or  2 teaspoonfuls  several  times  a day.  Very  good  for  hoarse- 
ness, loss  of  voice  and  all  ordinary  coughs. 

75.  Onion  Juice  and  Sugar. — Take  a good-sized  onion  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven,  press  out  the  juice,  mix  with  sugar,  and  take  a little  of  it  every  few 
minutes.  A lady  in  Ohio  says  she  has  frequently  tried  this  for  coughs  and 
hoarseness  with  good  results  and  many  others  all  over  the  country  can  say 
the  same  thing. 

76.  Lemon  Juice  and  White  of  Egg. — The  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a 
stifi  froth  and  whipped  up  with  the  juice  of  a lemon  and  a teaspoonful  taken 
every  hour  will  relieve  hoarseness  and  coughing. 

77.  Chammomilla  Tea. — When  hoarseness  occurs  in  children  and  is 
attended  with  a rough,  dry  cough,  mucus  and  soreness  in  the  throat  and  with 
fever  in  the  evening,  give  chammomilla  tea  every  4 or  6 hours.  Use  no 
external  application  but  pay  proper  attention  to  warmth  and  strictly  avoid 
a variable  temperature  or  humid  atmosphere. 

78.  Milk  and  Red  Pepper. — For  hoarseness  take  milk  and  red  pepper 
every  little  while. 

79.  Onion. — Boil  a good-sized  onion  in  a syrup  made  of  sugar  and 
water  and  eat  it  all  and  more  if  necessary.  Then  go  to  bed  and  take  a good 
sweat  and  cool  off  very  slowly.  This  will  break  up  the  cold. 

80.  Cold  Water  Cloths. — For  sore  throat  apply  cloths  wrung  out  of  cold 
water. 

81.  Sore  Throat. — A student  at  Denison  University  which  is  located  at 
Granville,  Ohio,  says  that  as  soon  as  he  feels  sore  throat  coming  on  he  im- 


106 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


mediately  exercises  the  muscles  of  the  throat  as  much  as  possible,  moving 
them  in  every  possible  way  and  rubbing  them  with  the  hands.  He  says 
this  has  given  him  splendid  results  and  his  explanation  is  that  it  establishes 
a better  circulation  in  these  parts. 

82.  Dr.  Ritter’s  Cough  Cure. — W e have  here  a long  list  of  most  excel- 
lent remedies  for  these  troubles  and  they  are  gathered  from  all  over  the 
world.  To  make  the  list  complete  1 am  going  to  give  a combination  of  my 
own  that  I have  prescribed  many  times  with  the  very  best  of  results.  It 
is  to  be  used  when  you  have  a hard,  tight  and  distressing  cough  and  must 
cough  for  some  minutes  before  relief  is  obtained.  Take  chloride  of  am- 
monia, 21/2  drams;  paregoric,  1 ounce;  hive  syrup,  6 drams;  and  to  this 
add  either  syrup  of  wild  cherry  or  fluid  extract  of  licorice,  enough  to  make 
4 ounces  in  all.  Shake  thoroughly  and  take  a teaspoonful  every  3 or  4 
hours.  (Author.) 

CHRONIC  NASAL  CATARRH. 

Chronic  Rhinitis. 

This  disease  is  too  well  known  to  need  description. 

Causes. — Colds  of  long  standing  and  adenoids  in  the  throat,  polypi  in 
the  nose  and  perhaps  foreign  bodies  like  buttons,  etc.,  in  the  nasal  passages. 
A person  who  is  in  a “ run  down  ” condition  is  most  likely  to  have  catarrh. 
TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Regulate  the  diet  and  the  bowels  and  tone  up  the  system 
with  iron  or  arsenic  if  necessary.  Give  a tablespoonful  of  cod  liver  oil  four 
times  a day  and  from  five  to  twenty  drops  of  syrup  of  iodide  of  iron  four 
times  a day.  Avoid  taking  cold  as  much  as  possible  and  keep  the  passages 
of  the  head  clean.  Spray  the  throat  and  nose  passages  with  Dobell’s  or 
Seiler’s  solution  diluted  with  an  equal  amount  of  water.  As  a preventive 
of  catarrh  it  is  often  necessary  to  remove  adenoids  and  polypi  from  the 
throat  and  nose. 

General  Treatment. — 

As  a spray  use  1 ounce  of  listerine,  V2  dram  of  sodium  bicarbonate  or 
common  baking  soda,  and  4 ounces  of  sterilized  water.  If  used  with  a syringe 
add  twice  as  much  water.  Ordinarily  this  is  to  be  used  twice  a day. 

Once  a day  after  cleansing  you  can  use  sulpho-carbolate  of  zinc.  Use 
five  grains  to  1 ounce  of  water.  Drop  some  of  this  solution  into  the  nose 
with  a medicine  dropper  while  the  head  is  thrown  back. 

If  possible  move  to  some  dry,  unchangeable  climate.  Beware  of  quacks 
who  are  after  your  money.  Keep  the  nasal  passages  thoroughly  clean  with 
some  simple  douche.  The  Birmingham  Nasal  Douche  is  a simple  and  very 
satisfactory  one.  Fill  it  with  the  following  solution  : soda,  IV2  drams  and 
listerine  6 drams.  L^se  every  night  and  morning.  Take  a teaspoonful  of 
tincture  of  skunk  cabbage  four  times  dailv. 

Thoroughly  mix  14  grains  of  camphor  with  16  grains  of  menthol  and 
then  mix  this  thoroughly  with  enough  white  vaseline  to  make  an  ounce  in  all. 
When  you  have  this  ointment  prepared  have  the  druggist  give  you  a small 
glass  tube  about  a quarter  of  an  inch  in  diameter  and  four  or  five  inches 
long.  The  medicine  and  tube  will  probably  cost  you  about  a quarter  and  the 
ointment  will  last  a long  time.  Dip  the  tube  into  the  ointment  and  take 
up  a little  of  it  and  then  insert  the  tube  in  the  nostril  and  press  the  nostril 
around  the  tube  so  that  it  fits  tightly,  then  close  the  other  nostril  and  give 
a quick  snuff  which  will  draw  the  ointment  well  up  into  the  head.  Do  the 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


107 


same  with  the  other  nostril.  Use  this  two  or  three  times  a day.  It  will 
thoroughly  clear  out  the  passages  and  help  the  worst  case  of  catarrh.  Also 
use  this  for  a fresh  cold.  This  is  a very  valuable  prescription  that  will  save 
you  money  and  help  your  catarrh. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Salt  Water. — Dissolve  half  a teaspoonful  of  table  salt  in  a quart  of 
water  and  snuff  some  of  this  solution  up  the  nose  several  times  a day.  This 
remedy,  though  simple,  is  one  of  the  most  eff'ective  in  use. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Salt  is  an  astringent  and  is  also  somewhat  anti- 
septic. 

2.  Borax  Water. — A solution  of  borax  in  the  proportion  of  from  5 to  20 
grains  to  an  ounce  of  water  is  excellent  when  snuffed  up  the  nose.  It  thor- 
oughly cleanses  the  passages  of  the  head  and  allows  nature  to  do  the  healing. 

3.  Carbolic  Acid  Water. — One  of  the  best  remedies  is  from  1 to  7 
grains  of  carbolic  acid  to  an  ounce  of  water.  Snuff  up  the  nose  or  use  in  a 
douche  or  atomizer.  This  is  especially  good  when  there  is  a bad  odor  from 
the  nose. 

4.  Salt,  Borax  and  Soda. — To  half  a pint  of  rain  water  add  an  ounce 
each  of  common  table  salt,  powdered  borax  and  baking  soda.  When  dis- 
solved take  1 tablespoonful  of  the  solution  to  2 or  3 tablespoonfuls  of  warm 
water  and  snuff*  up  the  nostrils  at  bed  time.  This  is  one  of  the  finest  remedies 
used.  The  salt  stimulates,  the  soda  soothes,  and  the  borax  cleanses  and  heals. 
What  more  could  any  remedy  do  even  if  you  paid  a dollar  a bottle  for  it  at 
the  drug  store? 

5.  Cubeb  Berries. — Smoke  cubeb  berries  in  a clay  pipe  and  inhale  the 
smoke.  These  berries  may  be  purchased  at  any  drug  store  at  a trifling  cost 
and  are  used  quite  extensively. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Powdered  cubebs  have  a fine  action  on  the  nasal 
mucous  membrane  and  are  of  value  in  the  treatment  of  catarrh. 

6.  Burnt  Alum. — Burnt  alum  pulverized  and  snuffed  up  the  nose  has 
cured  many  cases  of  catarrh. 

7.  Sulphur  and  Whiskey. — Add  two  ounces  of  sulphur  to  a pint  of 
whiskey,  shake  and  take  a tablespoonful  three  mornings,  then  miss  three  morn-  / 
ings,  and  so  continue  until  the  whole  is  taken. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  good  for  the  blood. 

8.  Borax  and  Loaf  Sugar. — An  excellent  catarrh  snuff  is  made  by  mixing 
a dram  of  powdered  loaf  sugar  with  2 ounces  of  pulverized  borax.  This  rem- 
edy will  cost  five  or  ten  cents  at  the  drug  store  if  you  do  not  have  it  already  in 
the  house.  It  can  be  put  into  a small  pill  box  and  carried  in  the  pocket.  Use 
it  as  a snuff  8 or  10  times  daily.  This  will  last  for  a long  time  and  save  a 
dollar  or  two  that  would  otherwise  be  paid  for  a patent  medicine. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  cleanses  and  soothes  the  passages  of  the  head. 

9.  Castile  Soap  and  Water, — A very  effective  remedy  for  catarrh  is  cas- 
tile  soap  and  water  snuffed  up  the  nostrils. 

10.  Sulphur,  Elecampane,  Licorice  and  Honey. — Take  equal  quantities 
of  powdered  sulphur,  elecampane  and  licorice  and  mix  with  strained  honey 
to  make  a thick  heavy  paste.  Take  a piece  about  the  size  of  a walnut  every 
morning  and  evening. 

Remark. — A lady  living  in  Massachusetts  writes  : “ My  father  had  catarrh 
for  years  and  was  cured  by  this  remedy  and  I have  since  used  it  myself 
with  beneficial  results.” 


108 


THE  PEOPLE^S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


11.  Camphorated  Oil. — Snuff  the  oil  up  the  nostrils  and  the  nose  will 
clear  immediately.  Use  two  or  three  times  a day.  A lady  living-  in  Columbus, 
Ohio,  says  that  this  is  good  for  any  nasal  trouble  as  she  has  found  by  ex- 
perience. 

HAY  FEVER. 

Autumnal  Catarrh. 

Hay  fever  is  an  affection  of  the  upper  air  passages.  It  generally  comes 
on  about  the  middle  of  August  and  continues  until  a good  frost. 
TREATMENT.—. 

Change  of  climate.  Dry  mountain  air  is  the  best.  Sometimes  a visit 
to  the  seaside  is  good.  But  we  cannot  all  take  this  treatment  so  I will  give 
some  local  treatments  also.  Cocaine  applied  to  the  nostrils  is  good  but  is 
rather  dangerous  for  any  one  but  a doctor  to  use.  Spray  the  air  passages  with 
a 1 to  5,000  solution  of  adrenalin  chloride  and,  after  using  this,  use  some  mild 
alkaline  spray  like  Dobell’s  solution. 

As  a spray  for  the  nose  and  throat  the  following  is  a good  mixture — 
borax,  2 drams:  soda,  2 drams;  carbolic  acid,  24  grains;  and  water,  1 pint. 

Another  good  treatment  is  menthol,  6 grains;  camphor^  6 grains  and 
liquid  albolene,  1 ounce.  Use  as  a spray. 

MEMBRANOUS  CROUP  OR  TRUE  CROUP. 

(See  Laryngeal  Diphtheria.) 

SPASMODIC  CROUP. 

False  Croup,  Pseudo  Croup,  Catarrhal  Croup,  Spasmodic  Laryngitis. 

Description. — This  is  a disease  of  the  larynx  that  is  most  common  between 
the  2nd  and  5th  years  but  it  also  occurs  in  very  young  infants.  One  attack 
leaves  a person  more  subject  to  another. 

Causes. — Exposure  to  cold  and  wet  very  often  bring  on  an  attack  of 
croup.  Like  the  majority  of  catarrhal  inflammations  of  the  air  passages  this 
disease  is  due  to  the  invasion  of  bacteria  or  germs. 

Symptoms. — Spasmodic  croup  causes  much  anxiety  to  mothers  when  the 
first  attack  develops  without  warning.  During  the  day  the  child  may  have  a 
slight  cold.  Toward  evening  a harsh  or  “ croupy  ” cough,  accompanied  by 
heavy  or  spasmodic  breathing  and  a husky  voice,  suddenly  develops.  In  some 
cases  the  symptoms  remain  mild  and  only  the  cough  disturbs  the  child  and 
its  breathing  is  not  much  affected.  In  other  cases  the  child  goes  to  sleep 
apparently  well  but  during  the  night  it  suddenly  awakens  with  a harsh,  shrill, 
barking  cough  which  is  repeated  at  intervals  and  rapidly  gets  worse.  The 
breathing  is  noisy  and  may  be  heard  in  an  adjoining  room.  The  cough  is 
especially  terrifying.  The  child  is  restless  and  may  cry  during  a soell  of 
coughing.  It  sits  up  for  it  cannot  breathe  easily  when  lying  down.  The  face 
is  of  a pale  bluish  color  and  wet  with  a cold  sweat.  The  child  can  speak  only 
in  a hoarse  whisper  and  sometimes  the  voice  is  nearly  or  entirely  lost.  Toward 
morning  the  cough  and  difficult  breathing  get  better  and  the  child  falls  asleep 
worn  out  by  the  night’s  suffering.  Next  day  the  child  acts  apparently  well 
but  there  is  a slight  cough,  running  from  the  nose,  swollen  tonsils  and  a red 
throat.  But  these  attacks  may  be  repeated  for  two  or  three  successive  nights. 
TREATMENT.— 

Preventive  Treatment. — Keep  the  feet  dry  and  do  not  take  cold. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


109 


Emergency  Remedy  or  “ What  to  Do.” — Give  an  emetic  or  something  to 
make  the  child  vomit  and  clear  the  throat  of  the  phlegm.  For  this  purpose 
you  can  give  a tablespoonful  of  goose  grease  or  a teaspoonful  of  powdered 
alum  mixed  with  molasses  or,  if  nothing  else  is  at  hand,  mix  a little  lard  with 
three  times  as  much  pulverized -sugar  and  give  a teaspoonful  every  fifteen 
minutes  till  the  child  vomits.  From  1/2  to  1 teaspoonful  of  dissolved  white 
vaseline  is  also  good.  Also  apply  cloths  wrung  out  of  cold  water  to  the  throat. 
These  should  be  changed  frequently  to  keep  them  cold.  Keep  the  child  in  bed 
and  keep  the  bowels  open. 

Caution  or  “ What  Not  to  Do.” — In  applying  cold  or  hot  cloths  do  not 
allow  the  water  to  drip  or  run  upon  other  parts  of  the  body.  Do  not  allow 
the  child  to  go  from  a warm  to  a cold  room  or  to  take  cold  in  any  way. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Wine  of  ipecac  is  good.  Give  10  drops  at  a dose. 
This  is  especially  good  to  produce  vomiting  if  the  stomach  is  filled  with  food. 
From  1 to  2 drops  of  fluid  extract  of  ipecac  is  good  and  may  be  repeated  in 
half  an  hour  if  necessary. 

Dr.  Douglas,  of  Detroit,  is  a specialist  on  children’s  diseases  and  the 
following  is  taken  from  his  book.  It  is  a good  croup  mixture  to  keep  on  hand 
if  the  children  are  subject  to  attacks  of  croup.  Take  syrup  of  ipecac,  3 fluid 
drams;  Hive  syrup,  4 fluid  drams  and  water,  IV2  ounces.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  shake  before  using.  Give  half  a teaspoonful  every  half  hour  until  the 
child  vomits  and  then  repeat  the  dose  every  2 to  3 hours  as  needed. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  third  trituration  of  Hepar  Sulphur. 
Give  one  tablet  in  hot  water  every  15  minutes  until  relieved.  This  is  better 
for  light  haired  people  and  when  the  cough  is  a little  loose.  It  is  a strange 
thing  but  it  is  true  that  some  medicines  affect  light  and  dark  complexioned 
people  differently. 

Give  the  third  trituration  of  Spongia.  Give  one  tablet  in  hot  water  every 
15  minutes  until  relieved.  This  is  better  for  children  with  a dark  complexion 
and  when  the  cough  is  very  harsh  and  tight. 

If  there  is  much  fever  give  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite.  Put  10  drops 
into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  at  a dose.  Alternate  this 
with  the  Hepar  Sulphur  or  the  Spongia  above. 

Simple  Treatment  and  Nursing. — Apply  cold  cloths  or  an  ice  bag  to  the 
throat.  Hot  cloths  are  sometimes  used.  In  applying  cloths  of  either  cold 
or  hot  water  they  should  be  covered  with  a dry  flannel  cloth  so  that  none  of 
the  water  drips  or  runs  upon  other  parts  of  the  body.  The  application  of  an 
onion  poultice  is  an  old  and  tried  remedy.  Fry  some  onions  in  lard,  not  too 
dry,  and  apply  to  the  throat  and  chest.  Change  often  so  as  to  keep  the  poul- 
tice moist  and  hot.  This  is  good  for  the  cough  and  tight  breathing  and  re- 
lieves the  pain. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Cold  Water  Cloths. — Cloths  wrung  out  of  cold  water  should  be  ap- 
plied to  the  throat  and  changed  freauently.  These  wet  cloths  should  be 
covered  with  a dry  flannel  cloth.  More  than  one  child  owes  its  life  to  its 
mother’s  knowledge  of  this  effective  treatment. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  a splendid  remedy  but  be  careful  not  to 
allow  the  water  to  run  upon  other  parts  of  the  body. 

2.  Mustard  and  Bran  Poultices. — Apply  either  a mustard  or  a hot  bran 
poultice  to  the  neck. 


no 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Physician’s  Remark. — This  produces  counter-irritation  and  thus  relieves 
the  congestion. 

3.  Hot  Water. — One  mother  applies  a sponge  wet  in  water  to  the 
child’s  neck  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  This  is  highly  recommended  for  croup.  It 
should  be  renewed  as  frequently  as  it  becomes  cool  until  the  skin  is  quite  red 
or  until  the  child  is  better. 

4.  Alum  and  Honey  or  Molasses. — The  favorite  remedy  of  many 
mothers  is  to  give  a teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum  in  a little  honey  or  mo- 
lasses every  ten  minutes  until  the  child  vomits. 

5.  Lobelia. — The  first  thing  to  do  is  to  clear  the  throat  of  phlegm  by 
giving  an  emetic.  Tincture  of  lobelia  is  one  of  the  best  things  for  this  pur- 
pose. Fifteen  drops  should  be  given  every  10  minutes  until  the  child  vomits. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  a depressing  remedy  and  should  not  be 
used  unless  other  remedies  fail. 

6.  Roasted  Onions. — Applied  to  the  throat,  chest,  feet  and  hands  these 
have  saved  the  lives  of  many  children.  This  remedy  is  a simple  and  effective 
one  that  every  mother  should  know  about  in  case  of  an  emergency. 

7.  Apples  and  Cranberries. — Roasted  apples  and  cranberries  are  both 
recommended  as  applications  for  the  throat 

8.  Snuff  and  Lard. — Many  consider  a plaster  made  of  snuff  and  lard  the 
best  application  for  croup.  A teaspoonful  of  snuff  shoufd  be  mixed  with  a 
little  lard,  spread  upon  a cloth,  and  applied  to  the  throat  and  chest. 

9.  Camphor  and  Vinegar. — When  croup  is  first  noticed  apply  to  the 
throat  some  cotton  wet  in  equal  parts  of  camphor  and  vinegar.  Warm  whiskey 
applied  in  the  same  way  is  also  good. 

10.  Poultice  of  Slippery  Elm,  Lobelia  and  Red  Pepper. — If  other  reme- 
dies fail,  try  a poultice  made  of  slippery  elm,  lobelia,  red  pepper  and  hot 
water.  It  should  be  applied  to  the  throat  and  chest  and  changed  as  rapidly 
as  it  cools. 

11.  Hops,  Vinegar  and  Horseradish. — If  the  child  is  very  young  apply  a 
poultice  of  hops  boiled  in  water.  During  the  day  when  it  seems  better  give 
a tea  made  of  horseradish  and  vinegar. 

12.  Baking  Soda  and  Molasses. — Mix  equal  parts  of  baking  soda  and 
molasses  and  for  a child  two  years  old  give  a teaspoonful  at  a dose.  Repeat 
at  short  intervals  until  the  phlegm  is  all  thrown  up. 

13.  Castor  Oil  and  Onion  Juice. — Grate  a raw  onion,  squeeze  out  the 
juice  and  add  half  as  much  castor  oil  as  you  have  of  the  juice.  Keep  in  a 
bottle  well  corked,  shake  before  using,  and  give  a teaspoonful  every  two  or 
three  hours. 

14.  Lard  and  Sugar. — To  one  part  of  sweet  lard  add  three  parts  of 
pulverized  sugar,  mix  thoroughly  and  give  a teaspoonful  every  15  minutes 
until  vomiting  is  produced. 

15.  Hot  Water  Cloths. — Wring  a flannel  out  of  hot  water  and  apply  to 
the  neck  of  the  child.  This  will  usually  give  relief  in  a few  minutes. 

16.  Turpentine. — Wet  a flannel  with  turpentine  and  place  on  the  throat 
and  chest  and  if  the  case  is  severe  give  from  2 to  5 drops  on  a piece  of  sugar. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Turpentine  dees  the  work  by  drawing  the  blood 
away  from  the  parts  and  thus  relieving  the  congestion. 

17.  Warm  Butter. — Give  some  warm  melted  butter.  About  a table- 
spoonful may  be  given. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


Ill 


18.  Goose  Grease. — Give  a tablespoonful  of  goose  grease  as  often  as  is 
necessary  to  cause  vomiting. 

19.  Sulphur  V/ater. — Put  a teaspoonful  of  sulphur  into  a cup  of  water 
and  allow  it  to  stand  for  two  hours,  then  strain  and  use  the  water.  Give  a 
teaspoonful  every  two  hours.  A lady  in  Maine  says  she  has  found  this  a 
fine  remedy  for  croup.  This  is  for  use  the  day  after  the  attack. 

20.  Lard  and  Snuff. — Take  a piece  of  muslin  large  enough  to  cover  the 
upper  part  of  the  chest  and  tie  it  about  the  neck  with  strings.  Spread  some 
lard  over  the  muslin  and  sprinkle  with  Scotch  snuff.  Put  a flannel  over  all 
this.  If  applied  early  it  will  always  give  relief. 

21.  Hive  Syrup,  Cosmoline  and  Nutmeg. — Give  Hive  Syrup  according 
to  the  directions  on  the  bottle.  Spread  some  flannel  with  cosmoline,  sprinkle 
thickly  with  grated  nutmeg  and  keep  on  the  chest,  well  up  towards  the  throat, 
until  the  patient  is  better. 

22.  Kerosene  and  Sugar. — Give  5 or  6 drops  of  lamp  oil  on  a lump  of 
sugar.  Repeat  if  necessary.  Also  apply  hot  or  cold  applications  externally. 

ACUTE  CATARRHAL  LARYNGITIS. 

Inflammation  of  the  Larynx. 

Causes. — The  causes  are — catching  cold,  over  using  the  voice,  breathing 
irritating  gases,  injuries  and  hot  liquids  and  corrosive  poisons  accidentally 
going  into  the  larynx  (Sunday  throat)  instead  of  the  gullet. 

Symptoms. — There  is  tickling  in  the  larynx  or  near  the  Adam’s  apple. 
Cold  air  is  irritating.  There  is  a dry  cough  and  dry  husky  voice  and  the 
voice  may  even  he  lost  altogether  for  a time.  In  adults  the  breathing  is  not 
much  affected.  Children  may  have  hard  spasmodic  breathing. 

TREATMENT. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Allow  the  larynx  to  have  rest,  keep  in  bed  if  the 
case  is  severe  and  have  an  even  temperature.  Early  in  the  attack  give  aconite. 
The  dose  is  from  % to  1 drop  and  is  to  be  given  every  1 to  3 hours  according 
to  the  age.  Also  give  citrate  of  potash.  The  dose  is  from  10  to  40  grains.  For 
the  irritating  cough  give  10  grains  of  Dover’s  powder  at  night  for  an  adult. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite.  Put  10 
or  15  drops  into  a glass  half  full  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every 
t/2  to  3 hours  according  to  age.  After  24  hours  give  the  second  dilution  of 
Belladonna  instead  of  the  Aconite.  It  should  be  prepared  and  given  in  the 
same  way.  For  the  loose  cough  give  the  third  trituration  of  Hepar  Sulphur. 
Give  1 tablet  every  1 to  3 hours. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Apply  cold  cloths  or  an  ice  bag  to  the  throat.  Hot 
cloths  are  sometimes  used.  In  applying  cloths  of  either  cold  or  hot  water 
they  should  be  covered  with  a dry  flannel  cloth  so  that  none  of  the  water 
drips  or  runs  upon  other  parts  of  the  body.  The  application  of  an  onion  poul- 
tice is  good.  Fry  some  onions  in  lard,  not  too  dry,  and  apply  to  the  throat. 
Change  often  so  as  to  keep  the  poultice  moist  and  hot.  This  is  good  for  the 
cough  and  tight  breathing  and  relieves  the  pain. 

Hot  bland  drinks,  hot  milk,  hot  lemonade  or  hot  teas  are  good.  Fold 
a handkerchief,  wring  out  of  cold  water  and  lay  upon  the  larynx  or  Adam’s 
apple  and  immediately  cover  with  a piece  of  cloth  or  flannel  bound  around  the 
neck.  Make  the  room  moist  by  steam  from  a kettle  or  by  adding  pieces  of 
unslacked  lime  to  a tub  of  water  or  use  the  croup  or  bronchitis  tent  as  de- 
scribed in  the  ‘‘  Nursing  Department.”  Keep  the  patient  in  a room  with 


112 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


the  temperature  from  70  to  72  de^j^rees.  Give  a hot  mustard  foot  bath  and  hot 
lemonade  with  a teaspoonful  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  in  it  at  bed  time  to  pro- 
duce sweating.  For  an  adult  you  can  give  10  grains  of  Dover’s  powder  in- 
stead if  you  wish.  If  the  trouble  affects  the  glottis  a tube  may  need  to  be 
placed  in  the  throat  to  allow  breathing.  In  inflammation  of  the  larynx  the 
patient  should  be  kept  in  bed  and  the  bowels  should  be  kept  open. 

SWELLING  OF  GLOTTIS. 

Oedema  Glottis — Oedematous  Laryngitis. 

This  is  a very  serious  affliction  but  fortunately  it  does  not  occur  very 
often. 

Causes. — Sometimes  follows  acute  laryngitis  or  glandular  throat  trouble. 
Caused  by  swelling  pressing  on  the  glottis. 

Symptoms. — There  is  short  breath  and  hard  breathing  and  in  an  hour  or 
two  the  condition  is  very  serious.  The  breathing  is  noisy  and  hissing  and  is 
attended  with  a choking  sensation. 

Treatment. — Apply  an  ice  bag  to  the  throat  and  if  the  symptoms  are  iTr- 
gent  an  operation  may  be  necessary.  This  disease  is  not  frequent  unless  the 
patient  has  tuberculosis  or  syphilis  of  the  larynx.  It  sometimes  follows  laryn- 
gitis and  diphtheria. 

SPASM  OF  GLOTTIS. 

Spasmodic  Laryngitis — Child  Crowing. 

Description. — This  is  a nervous  affection  and  no  inflammation  exists.  It 
occurs  in  children  between  the  ages  of  six  months  and  three  years  and  is 
commonly  in  connection  with  rickets.  Mothers  sometimes  call  the  attacks, 
holding  the  breath  ” or  “ passion  fits.” 

Symptoms. — The  attacks  may  come  on  at  any  time;  often  just  as  the 
child  awakens.  There  is  no  cough  but  the  breathing  is  checked,  the  child 
struggles  for  breath,  gets  red  in  the  face  and  then  suddenly  the  air  is  drawn 
into  the  lungs  with  a high  pitched,  crowing  sound  called  ” child  crowing.” 
The  attack  may  occur  frequently  during  the  day.  Death  rarely  occurs. 

Treatment. — Examine  the  gums  carefully  and  if  swollen  and  hot  they 
should  be  lanced.  Also  examine  the  tonsils  and  back  part  of  the  throat  for 
adenoids  and  if  found  they  should  be  removed. 

When  the  attack  comes  on  carry  the  child  to  the  window  where  it  will 
have  plenty  of  air  and  where  you  can  see  better.  Throw  a few  drops  of 
cold  water  in  the  face  and  put  your  finger  far  back  in  the  child’s  throat.  Unless 
it  frightens  the  child  you  may  sponge  the  breast  with  cold  water.  In  severe 
cases  the  child  should  be  placed  in  a warm  bath  two  or  three  times  a day  and 
the  back  and  chest  thoroughly  sponged  with  cold  water.  This  may  be  em- 
ployed when  the  child  is  having  an  attack  unless  it  frightens  the  child.  If 
the  attack  is  very  severe  and  the  child  is  blue  in  the  face  it  is  much  better 
to  dash  cold  water  in  the  face.  Give  easily  digested  foods  and  keep  the 
children  out  doors  a great  deal.  Besides  the  kinds  of  laryngitis,  here  treated 
there  is  tuberculous  laryngitis  and  syphilitic  laryngitis. 

ACUTE  BRONCHITIS. 

Description. — This  is  an  acute  inflammation  of  the  bronchial  tubes. 
It  is  a very  common  disease  and  rarely  serious  in  healthy  adults  but  very 
fatal  in  the  old  and  young.  It  affects  both  the  larger  and  medium-sized 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


113 


breathing  tubes  and  when  it  affects  the  small  air  passages  it  is  known  as 
capillary  bronchitis  or  broncho-pneumonia.  Capillary  bronchitis  and  also 
chronic  bronchitis  will  be  treated  later.  As  before  said,  the  simple  acute 
bronchitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  larger  and  medium-sized  air  passages. 

Causes. — Bronchitis  is  the  result  of  taking  cold  and  often  is  nothing 
more  than  an  ordinary  cold  which  extends  down  into  the  air  passages  and  is 
known  as  a cold  on  the  chest.  Changeable  weather  of  early  spring  and  late 
autumn  is  a cause.  It  may  prevail  as  an  epidemic.  It  frequently  occurs 
at  the  beginning  of  typhoid  and  malarial  fevers.  It  is  present  in  asthma  and 
whooping  cough  and  persons  with  spinal  curvature  are  especially  liable  to 
It.  Also,  those  who  lead  an  indoor  life,  and  especially  men,  are  subject  to  it. 

Symptoms. — In  the  beginning  there  are  the  symptoms  of  an  ordinary  cold 
and  the  hoarseness  in  some  cases  is  marked.  Sometimes  the  patient  has  a 
chill,  feels  languid,  and  has  heavy  pains  in  the  bones  and  back.  There  is 
a feeling  of  tightness  and  rawness  beneath  the  breast  bone  and  a pressing 
on  the  chest.  In  mild  cases  there  is  not  much  fever.  The  cough  is  rough 
at  first  and  comes  in  paroxysms  which  rack  and  distress  the  patient.  During 
the  severe  spells  the  pain  may  be  very  severe  beneath  the  breast  bone  and 
along  the  attachment  of  the  diaphragm.  At  first  the  cough  is  dry  with  scanty 
and  sticky  expectoration  or  spit,  but  soon  it  becomes  abundant  and  full 
of  matter.  Great  relief  is  felt  when  the  cough  is  loosened.  In  this  form  of 
bronchitis  the  breathing  is  not  much  increased  unless  there  is  high  fever  but 
when  the  smaller  tubes  are  affected  it  is  more  rapid  and  difficult.  When  the 
cough  is  loose  there  is  much  rattling  under  the  breast  bone.  By  the  end 
of  a week  in  strong  adults  the  fever  subsides  and  the  cough  loosens.  The 
patient  is  generally  fully  recovered  in  from  a week  to  ten  days.  In  young 
children  the  chief  danger  is  that  the  bronchitis  will  extend  downward.  In 
measles  and  whooping  cough  the  ordinary  bronchitis  is  very  likely  to  descend 
to  the  smaller  tubes  or  passages  and  they  then  have  broncho-pneumonia. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — Avoid  taking  cold  and  especially  during  measles,  scarlet 
fever,  typhoid  fever,  whooping  cough  and  similar  diseases. 

Emergency  Remedy  or  “ What  to  Do.” — In  mild  cases  household  remedies 
and  treatments  answer  the  purpose.  Apply  hot  fomentations  of  hops  and 
vinegar,  a jacket  poultice  or  a mustard  plaster.  Give  a hot  foot  bath.  Take 
a warm  bath  and  drink  hot  lemonade  or  hot  teas.  If  there  is  a feeling  of 
much  rawness  keep  the  air  saturated  with  moisture  such  as  steam  from  a 
teakettle.  If  the  cough  is  dry  and  irritating  give  2%  grains  of  Dover’s  pow- 
ders every  3 or  4 hours  until  10  grains  have  been  taken.  This  is  the  dose 
for  adults. 

Caution  or  “ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  let  the  patient  take  more  cold  and 
see  that  the  disease  does  not  go  down  into  the  smaller  air  passages  and 
result  in  broncho-pneumonia.  Do  not  let  the  bowels  become  constipated. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — In  the  early  stages  give  a combination  of  % teas- 
spoonful  of  syrup  of  ipecac  and  1 to  2 teaspoonfuls  of  solution  of  citrate 
of  potash,  every  3 or  4 hours.  For  the  cough  in  children  from  1 to  3 years 
old  give  the  following  mixture : paregoric,  1 dram  ; syrup  of  ipecac,  30  drops 
I and  syrup  of  tolu,  2 ounces.  Take  a teaspoonful  of  this  mixture  every  3 
hours.  In  acute  bronchitis  of  children,  if  there  is  difficult  breathing  and  the 
color  becomes  dusky  from  inability  to  raise  the  mucus,  give  1 tablespoonful 
8 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


.1  U- 

of  ipecac  wine  as  an  emetic.  For  an  adult,  if  the  cough  is  excessive  give 
grain  of  codein  or  20  drops  of  paregoric  at  a dose. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Put  10  to  15  drops  of  the  second  dilution 
of  Aconite  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  two  teaspoonfuls  every  Vii 
to  3 hours  according  to  the  condition  and  age.  This  is  good  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  attack  when  there  is  fever. 

Put  10  or  15  drops  of  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna  into  a glass  half 
full  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every  Yo  to  3 hours.  This  is  to  follow 
Aconite  and  is  for  the  tight,  tickling  and  dry  cough. 

Prepare  the  second  dilution  of  Bryonia  in  the  same  way  as  the  Aconite 
and  give  2 teaspoon fuls  every  1 to  3 hours.  This  is  for  a tight  cough  that 
hurts  and  causes  the  child  to  cry  when  it  coughs  and  when  it  is  moved. 

Prepare  the  third  dilution  of  Phosphorus  the  same  as  the  Aconite  and 
give  2 teaspoon  fuls  every  1 to  3 hours.  This  is  for  a tight  cough  with  a 
great  feeling  of  pressing  and  tightness  under  the  breast  bone ; also  when  the 
cough  is  worse  from  speaking. 

Give  1 tablet  of  the  third  trituration  of  Hepar  Sulphur  every  1 to  3 
hours.  This  is  to  be  used  when  there  is  a loose  rattling  cough. 

Nursing. — xA  mustard  plaster  may  be  applied  to  the  chest  and  back  or 
they  may  be  rubbed  with  ammonia  or  chloroform  liniment.  For  children 
apply  to  the  chest  a mixture  of  1 ounce  of  oil  of  amber  and  2 tablespoonfuls 
of  sweet  oil.  Steam  the  room  by  the  aid  of  a teakettle  which  is  kept  con- 
stantly boiling  or  put  unslaked  lime  in  a tub  of  water.  Or,  you  may  use  the 
croup  or  bronchitis  tent  as  described  in  the  “ Nursing  Department.”  If  nec- 
essary, add  to  the  hot  water  from  1 to  2 grains  of  menthol  every  2 or  3 hours. 
In  other  cases  the  irritation  will  Ee  greatly  soothed  by  pouring  into  the 
boiling  kettle  a tablespoonful  of  a mixture  composed  of  equal  parts  of  com- 
pound tincture  of  benzoin,  oil  of  eucalyptus,  and  oil  of  pine.  After  the 
cough  is  looser  administer  the  following;  chloride  of  ammonia,  to  3 
drams;  and  fluid  extract  of  licorice  and  water,  each  2 ounces.  For  an  adult 
give  a teaspoonful  every  4 to  5 hours. 

If  it  is  simple  bronchitis  or  cold  on  the  chest  the  thing  to  do  first  is  to 
get  the  patient  into  a sweat.  This  will  reduce  whatever  fever  there  may 
be  and  also  loosen  the  cough.  Sweating  can  be  produced  by  giving  a hot 
foot  bath  just  before  going  to  bed  and  by  placing  hot  water  bottles  in  the 
bed  far  enough  from  the  patient  not  to  ])urn  him.  Drink  plenty  of  hot 
drinks  such  as  hot  lemonade,  hot  ginger  or  hop  tea  and  in  fact  almost 
any  kind  of  hot  tea  wdll  do.  At  the  same  time  you  can  apply  to  the  chest 
cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water  in  which  hops  and  vinegar  liave  been  boiled. 
Of  course  tliis  must  be  done  in  a warm  room  and  the  water  from  the  ap- 
plications must  not  be  allowed  to  drip  or  run  upon  other  parts  of  the  body. 
A good  bath  under  the  bed  clothes  will  do  much  good  after  the  sweating. 
After  this  change  the  sheets  and  put  on  a clean  night  dress. 

PEOPLE’S  EIOME  REMEDIES.— (Also  see  Home  Remedies  for  colds, 
pleurisy,  pneumonia  and  asthma.) 

1.  Pleurisy  Root. — For  bronchitis,  pleurisy  and  pneumonia  in  the  first 
stages  warjn  tea  made  of  pleurisy  root  will  produce  sweating.  Give  a tea- 
cupful every  hour  or  two. 

2.  Skunk  Cabbage. — Give  a teaspoonful  of  the  tincture  of  skunk  cab- 
bage 4 times  a day  for  bronchitis  and  asthma. 

3.  Colt’s  Foot. — For  coughs,  asthma  and  bronchitis  boil  an  ounce  of 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


115 


the  leaves  of  colt’s  foot  in  a pint  of  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces 
3 or  4 times  a day. 

4.  Crawley  Root  or  Beech  Drops. — Crawley  root  or  beech  drops  is 
splendid  to  cause  sweating.  The  dose  is  from  20  to  30  grains  of  the  pow- 
dered root  given  in  hot  water  and  repeated  every  hour  or  two. 

5.  Herb  Tea. — Make  a tea  with  white  snake  root,  blood  root  and  pleurisy 
root.  The  dose  is  from  % to  2 ounces. 

6. '  Herb  Teas,  Sugar  and  Lemon  Juice. — Give  some  mild  cathartic  and 
for  the  cough  give  boneset  or  pennyroyal  tea  and  some  sugar  and  lemon 
juice. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Boneset  and  pennyroyal  produce  sweating  and 
sugar  and  lemon  juice  loosen  the  cough  and  lessen  irritation. 

7.  Lemon  Juice,  Sweet  Spirits  of  Nitre,  Olive  Oil  and  Honey. — For 
the  cough  of  bronchitis  give  an  adult  a teaspoonful  of  the  following  mixture 
3 or  4 times  a day.  Mix  1 ounce  each  of  lemon  juice,  sweet  spirits  of  nitre, 
olive  oil  and  honey. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Lemon  juice  and  honey  are  good  for  the  cough. 
The  nitre  works  on  the  kidneys  and  the  castor  oil  on  the  bowels  and  casts 
off  waste  material. 

8.  Catnip  or  Horehound  Tea. — Let  the  patient  breathe  the  steam  from 
hot  catnip  or  horehound  tea. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Steam  is  soothing  to  the  inflamed  surfaces  and 
so  also  are  the  fumes  of  catnip  and  horehound  and  the  horehound  is  also  an 
expectorant. 

9.  Petroleum. — For  either  simple  or  chronic  bronchitis  take  a teas- 
poonful of  petroleum  before  each  meal. 

10.  Antiphlogistine. — Apply  an  antiphlogistine  poultice. 

CHRONIC  BRONCHITIS. 

Description. — This  is  a chronic  inflammation  of  the  bronchial  tubes.  It 
may  follow  repeated  attacks  of  acute  bronchitis  but  generally  comes  in 
chronic  lung  troubles,  gout  or  kidney  disease.  It  comes  frequently  in  old  age. 

Symptoms  in  Old  Age. — There  is  shortness  of  the  breath  and  the  cough 
is  changeable  with  the  seasons.  A person  may  remain  free  from  it  during 
the  summer,  but  each  winter  it  comes  on  severely  and  persistently.  There 
may  be  only  a coughing  spell  in  the  morning  or  the  chief  distress  may  be  at 
night.  Sometimes  the  expectoration  or  matter  spit  up  is  large  in  quantity 
and  sometimes  smaU  and  is  not  very  thick.  In  many  cases  it  is  incurable 
and  the  patient  improves  in  the  summer  but  the  cough  disappears  only  to 
return  again  during  the  winter  months. 

TREATMENT. — Often  a change  of  climate  Is  good.  Southern  France, 
Southern  Florida  or  Southern  California  are  recommended.  For  the  morn- 
ing or  general  cough  you  can  take  the  following  in  the  morning.  Add  15 
grains  of  soda,  5 grains  of  salt  and  5 drops  of  chloroform  to  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  warm  water.  For  the  cough  drink  freely  of  balm  of  Gilead  buds 
tinctured  in  spirits.  Three  times  a day  you  can  take  from  1 to  2 ounces 
of  a tea  made  of  seneca  snake  root.  A tea  made  of  elecampane  can  be  used  in 
the  same  way.  Or,  take  1 pound  of  spikenard,  1 pound  of  elecampane,  1 pound 
of  comfrey,  1 pound  of  leaves  and  flowers  of  horehound,  1 pound  of  wild 
cherry  bark  and  4 ounces  of  blood  root.  Grind,  mix  and  make  a tea.  Dose  ; 
1 to  2 ounces  3 times  a day. 


116 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Homeopathic  Treatment. — Put  10  to  15  drops  of  the  third  dilution  of 
Phosphorus  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every  4 hours. 
This  is  to  be  taken  when  there  is  a tight  cough. 

Give  a tablet  of  the  third  trituration  of  Tartar  Emetic  4 times  a day. 
This  is  for  a loose  cough  where  the  mucus  is  hard  to  raise. 

CAPILLARY  BRONCHITIS. 

Broncho-Pneumonia. 

Description. — This  is  the  usual  type  of  bronchitis  or  pneumonia  be- 
fore the  fifth  year.  It  comes  mostly  during  the  winter  months  when  there 
are  epidemics  of  influenza,  etc.  It  is  an  inflammation  of  the  small  air  passages. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a cough  and  short  breathing.  The  disease  sets 
in  suddenly  with  a chill  or  a convulsion  followed  by  fever.  This  is  when  it 
does  not  follow  other  diseases.  The  fever  rises  rapidly  and  continues.  This 
kind  is  not  so  severe  as  when  it  follows  another  disease  such  as  measles  or 
whooping  cough.  In  these  diseases  if  the  fever  gets  high,  with  cough,  rapid 
pulse  and  rapid  breathing  and  a rattling  sound  is  heard,  we  are  likely  to 
have  capillary  bronchitis.  The  onset  is  not  sudden.  Usually  the  child  after 
a day  or  so  gets  feverish  and  begins  to  cough  and  has  shortness  of  breath. 
The  fever  is  from  102  to  104  degrees  and  variable;  the  skin  is  dry;  the  cough 
is  hard  and  distressing  and  may  be  painful  and  the  breathing  is  hard.  The 
number  of  respirations  or  breaths  may  run  from  60  to  80  per  minute.  In  the 
acute  simple  form  or  where  the  disease  does  not  follow  another  the  outlook 
is  good  but  in  cases  weakened  by  constitutional  disease  and  prolonged  fever 
it  is  terribly  fatal.  In  connection  with  measles  or  whooping  cough  recovery 
may  take  place  in  the  most  desperate  cases.  Broncho-pneumonia  is  not  so 
dangerous  in  children  as  in  very  old  people. 

TREATMENT.— 

Emergency  Remedy  or  ‘‘  What  to  Do.” — Cause  sweating  in  one  of  the 
many  ways  described. 

Caution  or  “ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  let  the  child  take  cold.  Do 
not  use  a poultice  or  cotton  jacket. 

Internal  Medicines. — For  a child  1 to  2 years  old  give  2 or  3 grains  of 
carbonate  of  ammonia  in  syrup  of  acacia  and  water.  Use  this  every  3 to  4 
hours  if  a short  stimulant  is  required.  For  a constant  stimulant  give  5-year- 
old  brandy  well  diluted  with  water.  A child  a year  old  may  take  30  drops 
every  2 or  3 hours. 

External  Medicines. — Rub  the  child’s  back,  sides,  chest  and  abdomen 
with  a teaspoonful  of  turpentine  added  to  3 teaspoonfuls  of  sweet  oil.  Do 
not  use  a poultice  or  cotton  jacket.  If  the  fever  is  very  high,  so  as  to  be 
dangerous,  control  it  with  cool  or  tepid  spongings  with  gentle  rubbing.  If 
symptoms  of  brain  trouble  develop  put  cool  cloths  to  the  forehead  or  an  ice 
bag  to  the  head.  This  is  a very  dangerous  disease  with  old  people. 

Nursing. — It  is  always  well  in  any  disease  in  which  there  is  inflamma- 
tion to  get  the  patient  to  sweating  at  the  beginning  of  the  attack.  This 
draws  the  blood  from  the  internal  organs  thus  relieving  the  congestion.  It 
makes  the  skin  red,  warm  and  moist  thus  getting  rid  of  the  chill  or  chilly 
feeling.  It  is  well  to  do  this  in  laryngitis,  acute  bronchitis,  acute  pleurisy, 
pneumonia  and  la  grippe.  If  there  is  a decided  chill  or  much  chilliness  use 
the  “ Corn  Sweat  ” as  described  in  the  “ Nursing  Department.”  A rubber  hot 
water  bottle  is  good  when  placed  at  the  parts  that  are  painful.  Hot  teas  are 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


117 


good  for  an  adult.  Another  way  to  cause  sweating  is  to  put  hot  water  into 
fruit  cans  and  place  at  the  feet,  knees,  hips  and  sides. 

Put  the  child  into  a well-ventilated  and  sunshiny  room  with  the  tem- 
perature at  about  70  degrees.  Heat  if  possible  by  a stove  or  open  fire.  If 
the  house  is  heated  with  a furnace  and  is  too  dry  have  the  air  from  the 
furnace  flue  pass  over  a pan  of  water  and  if  the  air  is  very  hot  and  thor- 
oughly dry  it  is  better  to  set  free  in  the  air  of  the  room  a certain  amount 
of  steam  from  a tea  kettle,  a pan  of  boiling  water  or  by  occasionally  drop- 
ping a piece  of  quicklime  into  a bucket  of  water.  Dusty,  dry  and  impure 
air  is  very  injurious  to  the  bronchial  mucous  membrane  in  cases  of  this  dis- 
ease. In  many  cases  it  is  better  to  place  the  patient  in  a bronchitis  or  croup 
tent  as  described  in  the  “ Nursing  Department.” 

Give  nourishing  but  easily  digested  food  in  small  quantities  every  two 
hours.  , Give  no  medicine  in  the  food  or  near  the  time  of  feeding.  Give 
milk,  broths  or  albumen.  (For  “ People’s  Home  Remedies  ” see  some  of  those 
given  under  Acute  Bronchitis,  etc.) 

PNEUMONIA. 

Inflammation  of  the  Lungs — Lung  Fever. 

Description. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  air  cells  of  the  lungs. 
Often  there  is  also  inflammation  of  the  small  air  tubes  (capillary  bronchitis) 
and  there  may  also  be  inflammation  of  the  pleura. 

Causes. — The  frequency  of  the  disease  is  marked  before  the  sixth  year, 
then  diminishes  until  the  fifteenth  year  and  then  increases  again.  It  is 
more  frequent  in  males  than  in  females.  Weakness  and  alcoholism  render 
a person  more  liable  to  it.  The  disease  can  follow  an  injury  (traumatic  pneu- 
monia) or  it  can  come  from  lying  long  in  one  position  (hypostatic  pneumonia). 
It  comes  more  in  the  winter  and  spring  months. 

Symptoms. — Cough,  short  breathing,  dilated  nostrils  and  pain  are  char- 
acteristic of  the  disease.  Much  moving  of  the  nostrils  when  breathing  and 
accompanied  with  a single  red  cheek  indicate  pneumonia.  The  onset  is  short 
and  sudden.  It  generally  sets  in  with  a chill  lasting  from  fifteen  to  thirty 
minutes  and  perhaps  longer.  It  is  constant  and  severe  and  one  may  be 
taken  in  the  sleep  or  at  work.  Fever  has  then  already  begun  and  there  is 
headache  and  general  pains.  Within  a few  hours  pain,  often  of  an  agoniz- 
ing character,  develops  in  the  side.  A short,  dry  painful  cough  begins  and 
the  breathing  is  more  rapid.  When  seen  on  the  second  or  third  day  the 
patient  lies  flat  in  bed,  often  on  the  affected  side,  and  the  face  is  flushed  and 
particularly  on  one  or  both  cheeks.  The  breathing  is  hurried  and  often  accom- 
panied with  a grunt.  The  nostrils  dilate  with  each  drawing  in  of  the  breath. 
There  are  often  sores  on  the  lips  and  nose.  The  eyes  are  bright,  the  ex- 
pression anxious,  and  the  cough  short  and  frequent  and  the  coughing  makes 
the  patient  wince  and  hold  his  sides.  The  expectoration,  or  matter  spit  up, 
is  sticky  and  tinged  with  blood.  The  temperature  is  104  or  105  degrees  and 
the  pulse  is  full  and  bounding.  These  symptoms  run  on  for  from  seven  to 
ten  days  and  then  the  crisis  comes.  The  temperature  falls  and  the  patient  is 
comparatively  comfortable.  This  time  of  crisis  is  variable  and  comes  sud- 
denly. The  temperature  may  go  below  the  normal  (98-6/10).  With  the 
crisis  there  is  much  sweating  and  the  patient  falls  into  a comfortable  sleep. 
This  is  the  record  for  favorable  cases.  Pneumonia  is  the  most  fatal  of  all 
acute  diseases,  more  so  than  diphtheria  and  consumption.  Under  one  year 


118 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


it  is  more  fatal  than  between  two  and  five.  At  about  the  age  of  sixty  years 
the  death  rate  amounts  to  sixty  or  eighty  per  cent.  It  is  more  fatal  in  the 
negro  than  in  the  white  man. 

In  an  unfavorable  case  of  course  all  the  symptoms  become  more  severe. 
There  is  then  more  lung  surface  involved,  sometimes  the  whole  lung,  and  it 
sometimes  extends  to  both  lungs  and  is  then  called  double  pneumonia.  Breath- 
ing becomes  more  difficult,  the  mucus  is  hard  to  raise  and  sometimes  the 
patient  is  unable  to  raise  it  at  all.  There  is  a rattling  sound  made  by 
breathing,  the  face  is  dark,  there  is  a cold  sweat  and  the  patient  is  anxious 
looking  and  finally  gets  drowsy.  If  the  disease  lasts  a long  time  pus  some- 
times forms  on  the  lung  and  it  must  then  be  taken  away  before  there  will 
be  any  improvement. 

TREATMENT. — Some  give  veratrum  viride.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is 
from  2 to  5 drops  for  an  adult.  It  should  be  given  every  2 hours  for  the  first 
24  hours. 

For  the  Heart. — For  adults  give  5 drops  or  more  of  digitalis.  To  older 
children  give  2 drops  and  younger  children  rarely  need  more  than  % drop 
every  2 to  3 hours.  Give  this  to  children  when  the  pulse  is  as  high  as  150 
or  160.  If  the  pulse  rate  is  reduced  after  giving  tincture  of  digitalis  its  use 
should  be  discontinued  before  the  pulse  drops  below  100  per  minute. 

For  the  pain. — In  adults  the  stitch  in  the  side  is  best  relieved  by  a hypo- 
dermic injection  of  1,4  grain  of  morphine.  After  the  disease  has  fairly  set  in 
the  pain  is  not  as  a rule  very  distressing  except  when  the  patient  coughs 
and  for  this  Dover’s  powder  may  be  used  in  5-grain  doses  according  to  the 
patient’s  needs,  say  every  4 or  6 hours.  Hot  poultices  are  better  for  children. 
Never  use  morphine  for  children.  Use  paregoric.  Four  drops  every  2 to  3 
hours  for  children  under  2 years  will  be  sufficient  for  the  pain  and  cough. 
For  older  children  and  adults  codeine  may  be  used.  For  adults  give  I/4  grain. 
For  children  give  1/24  to  1/20  of  a grain  several  times  daily. 

Empty  the  bowels  daily  with  an  injection  or  with  salts.  For  children 
use  a cotton  or  woolen  jacket.  In  the  early  stages  when  the  pain  is  present 
very  hot  poultices  with  mustard  dressing  and  repeated  every  hour  give 
more  relief  than  the  cotton  jacket  but  when  the  first  acute  stage  is  over  the 
jacket  maintains  an  equal  temperature. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  disease  a tea  made  of  horehound  and  boneset 
and  sweetened  with  honey  is  good.  Slippery  elm  tea  is  also  good.  It  should 
be  strained  and  may  be  drank  freely. 

Mix  1 dram  of  quinine  and  2 ounces  of  lard  and  rub  well  into  the  skin. 
Regular  rubbing  twice  a day  is  very  good  to  reduce  fever  and  is  prefer- 
able even  to  a jacket.  Can  use  it  without  jacket  dressing. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Dr.  Osier  claims  that  pneumonia  is  a self-limited 
disease  and  that  you  cannot  shorten  it;  hence,  give  waiting  treatment. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Put  10  to  15  drops  of  the  second  dilution  of 
Aconite  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every  1 to  3 hours. 
This  is  good  during  the  first  24  hours  when  the  skin  is  hot  and  dry. 

Give  the  second  dilution  of  Bryonia.  Prepare  and  give  in  the  same 
way  as  the  Aconite.  This  is  good  for  sharp,  stitching  and  shooting  pains 
and  when  it  hurts  to  breathe.  This  can  be  alternated  with  the  Aconite  every 
hour. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUXGS. 


119 


Give  the  third  dilution  of  Phosphorus.  Prepare  and  give  the  same  as 
the  Aconite.  This  is  for  a tight  cough  with  bloody,  rusty  sputum. 

Give  the  third  trituration  of  Tarter  Emetic.  Give  1 tablet  every  1 to 
3 hours.  This  is  to  be  used  when  there  is  a loose  cough,  a loose  rattling 
breathing  and  the  patient  is  unable  to  raise  the  mucus. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — If  one  is  very  chilly  or  has  a chill  and  the  lungs 
feel  full  and  sore  and  if  it  is  hard  to  breathe  and  move  and  there  is  a sense 
of  oppression  over  one  side  of  the  chest  and  perhaps  some  pain,  you  can  then 
do  nothing  better  than  to  take  a good  sweat.  Hot  fomentations  ma}^  be 
used  or  hot  water  bottles  may  be  placed  around  the  body  and  especially  to 
the  feet  and  hips.  At  the  same  time  drink  large  quantities  of  hot  lemonade 
or  hot  teas  such  as  horehound,  ginger,  hop  or  catnip.  If  the  chill  is  very 
severe  take  the  “Corn  Sweat”  as  described  in  the  “Nursing  Department.” 

A married  lady  living  in  town  was  taken  sick  with  “ grip  ” and  pneumonia 
followed.  The  patient  improved  steadily  and  was  doing  nicely.  The  hus- 
band was  a good-natured  soul  but  was  careless  and  allowed  the  fire  to  go 
out.  The  patient  had  a terrible  chill  as  a consequence.  They  sent  for  me 
but  I was  in  the  country  at  the  time  (it  was  Sunday  forenoon,  I remem- 
ber). My  wife  went  over  to  see  if  she  could  be  of  help  and  saw  at  once 
that  a sweat  was  what  was  needed  and  so  she  applied  the  “ Corn  Sweat  ” as 
I have  described  in  the  “ Nursing  Department.”  When  I reached  home  in  the 
afternoon  I immediately  went  to  see  the  patient  and  found  her  doing  nicely. 
I said  a few  plain  things  to  the  husband  about  carelessness  and  then  I went 
home  to  dinner.  Husband  and  wife  both  gave  my  wife  credit  for  saving 
the  patient’s  life.  She  at  least  saved  her  days  of  distress  and  pain  by  the 
prompt  application  of  this  eflfective  remedy  to  produce  sweating  which  was 
necessary  in  this  case  and  this  is  just  the  means  I would  have  taken  had  I 
been  there  myself. 

Rubbing  the  chest  with  camphorated  oil  or  camphor  and  lard  is  good. 
A mustard  plaster  is  good  but  is  likely  to  make  the  parts  sore.  A flaxseed 
poultice  is  good  when  put  on  and  kept  hot.  Hops  may  be  steeped,  put  into 
a bag  and  applied  hot  as  can  be  borne.  Put  a dry  flannel  over  such  appli- 
cations so  that  the  surrounding  parts  do  not  get  wet  and  chilled.  Some  people 
cannot  bear  moist  heat.  For  them  place  sticks  of  stove  wood  in  the  oven 
until  very  hot,  wrap  each  piece  with  a cloth  and  place  several  of  these  sticks 
about  the  patient.  This  will  cause  sweating  and  stop  the  chill  or  chilly 
feeling  and  the  aching  of  the  bones.  At  the  same  time  you  are  using  this 
treatment  apply  a hot  salt-bag  to  the  sore  lung  or  other  sore  parts.  An 
onion  poultice  is  good  but  is  better  for  bronchitis  and  laryngitis. 

Do  not  put  much  clothing  on  the  patient.  Let  him  wear  a light  flannel 
jacket  open  in  front.  Have  the  room  bright,  sunshiny  and  well  aired.  Flave 
only  one  or  two  persons  in  the  room.  Carefully  sponge  the  patient  each 
day  with  warm  water  even  when  the  temperature  is  not  too  high.  This  is 
to  be  done  carefully  and  gently.  Keep  the  teeth,  mouth  and  gums  clean. 
Plain  water  or  lemonade  should  be  given  freely.  This  also  applies  to  bron- 
chitis, pleurisy  and  laryngitis.  When  the  patient  is  delirious  give  water  at 
fixed  times,  every  fifteen  minutes  or  longer.  Watch  the  tongue  and  lips  to 
see  if  the  patient  is  thirsty. 

The  food  should  be  liquid,  chiefly  milk,  either  alone  or,  better,  mixed 
with  food  prepared  from  some  one  of  the  cereals.  Eggs,  either  soft  boiled 
or  raw,  may  also  be  given. 


120 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES. — (Also  see  some  of  the  home  remedies 
under  colds,  bronchitis,  pleurisy,  etc.) 

1.  Herb  Teas,  Etc. — Have  the  patient  sit  for  perhaps  half  an  hour  with 
his  feet  and  legs  in  warm  water  and  drink  sage  or  pennyroyal  tea.  Put 
some  bitter  herbs  such  as  tansy,  horehound,  boneset,  hops,  smartweed  and 
peach  leaves  into  a vessel  and  boil.  A handful  of  each  herb  may  be  used.  Strip 
the  patient,  throw  a blanket  over  his  shoulders  so  that  it  comes  to  the  floor 
about  him  and  place  the  vessel  under  him,  thus  steaming  the  whole  body. 
To  keep  the  water  steaming  occasionally  put  in  a hot  brick.  Continue  this 
for  half  an  hour,  wipe  the  patient  off  quickly  and  put  him  to  bed.  Then 
give  warm  teas  such  as  sage,  pennyroyal  or  boneset  and  surround  him  with 
hot  bricks.  Keep  him  well  covered  and  let  him  sweat  for  several  hours. 
Then  wipe  him  dry,  put  on  dry  clothes  and  allow  him  to  sleep.  If  there  is 
pain  in  the  chest,  after  giving  a purgative  place  a poultice  of  tansy,  hops 
and  wormwood  over  the  chest  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  Change  this  every 
hour  or  two. 

2.  Onions,  Rye  Meal  and  Vinegar. — According  to  their  size,  take  from 
6 to  10  onions,  chop  fine  and  put  into  a large  spider  or  skillet  over  a hot 
fire  and  add  the  same  quantity  of  rye  meal,  and  vinegar  enough  to  form  a 
thick  paste.  Stir  it  thoroughly  and  let  simmer  5 or  10  minutes.  Put  into  a 
cotton  bag  large  enough  to  cover  the  lungs  and  apply  to  the  chest  of  the 
patient  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  When  this  gets  cool  apply  another.  Con- 
tinue re-heating  the  poultice  as  3 or  4 applications  may  be  necessary.  The 
remedy  should  be  applied  until  sweat  starts  freely  from  the  chest.  A lady 
in  Akron,  Ohio,  says  she  can  recommend  this  as  being  a most  excellent  treat- 
ment for  this  too  often  fatal  malady. 

3.  Cotton  Seed  Meal,  Tobacco,  Etc. — Stir  cotton  seed  meal  into  boiling 
water  until  thick  enough  to  spread,  stir  a little  tobacco  in,  or,  in  severe  cases 
steep  hops  or  smartweed  before  thickening.  Apply  the  poultice  over  the 
lungs  quite  warm.  When  wishing  to  replace  it  with  a fresh  one  let  the  fresh 
one  follow  by  rolling  it  on  as  the  old  one  is  rolled  off  never  letting  the  cold 
air  strike  the  patient.  When  the  poultice  is  removed  cover  with  flannel  or 
absorbent  cotton. 

BLEEDING  FROM  THE  LUNGS. 

Haemoptysis. 

Cause. — Bleeding  from  the  lungs  is  caused  by  the  rupture  of  a blood 
vessel  of  the  lungs. 

Symptoms. — The  patient  spits  blood  or  perhaps  the  blood  runs  from 
the  mouth  in  a stream.  Blood  from  the  lungs  is  likely  to  be  frothy  because 
it  is  mixed  with  the  air  and  it  is  generally  of  a bright  red  color  while  blood 
coming  from  the  stomach  is  generally  of  a darker  color. 

Treatment. — Have  the  patient  lie  down  and  remain  quiet.  Place  ice, 
or  cloths  wrung  out  of  cold  water,  to  the  chest  and  to  the  back  of  the  neck. 
To  quiet  him,  if  much  frightened,  give  a hypodermic  injection  of  Ys  grain 
of  morphine.  Another  remedy  is  to  give  10  grains  of  bromide  of  potash. 
This  may  be  repeated,  15  minutes  between  doses,  until  3 doses  have  been 
taken. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Table  Salt.- -Place  the  patient  on  a bed  keeping  the  head  and  shoul- 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


121 


ders  raised.  Keep  him  quiet,  allow  plenty  of  fresh  air  and  give  a teaspoonful 
or  two  of  common  table  salt. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Salt  acts  as  an  astringent  and  contracts  the  blood 
vessels  and  thus  aids  in  stopping  the  bleeding.  This  is  a simple  home  remedy 
one  always  has  on  hand  and  should  be  remembered  in  case  of  emergency. 

2.  Ice  and  Alum. — Hold  pieces  of  ice  in  the  mouth  swallowing  it  slowly 
as  it  melts.  Alum  used  in  the  same  way  is  also  an  effective  remedy. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Alum  is  an  astringent  and  aids  in  stopping  bleed- 
ing in  the  same  way  as  the  salt  does. 

3.  Witch  Hazel. — Give  some  diluted  witch  hazel  every  15  minutes  until 
the  bleeding  stops. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  better  to  stop  bleeding  after  a tooth  has 
been  extracted  or  to  stop  bleeding  from  small  wounds. 

4.  Salt  and  Vinegar. — Raise  the  shoulders  by  the  use  of  pillows,  if  the 
patient  breathes  easier  that  way,  and  keep  him  quiet.  Sponge  the  chest  with 
cold  water  and  vinegar  and  give  half  a teaspoonful  of  dry  salt.  Continue 
giving  small  doses  of  salt  if  necessary  as  we  have  known  it  alone  to  save 
a number  of  lives  where  a doctor  was  not  within  reach. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  a sensible  treatment  as  it  combines  the 
instructions  for  keeping  quiet,  sponging  with  cold  water  and  giving  salt. 
Any  of  these  are  good  alone  and  the  three  together  are  better. 

5.  Tying  with  Cord. — Tie  a cord  about  each  thigh  and  about  each  arm 
above  the  elbow  and  bleeding  from  the  lungs  will  stop  almost  instantly. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  also  a good  treatment  for  a person  who 
has  fainted. 

PLEURISY. 

Inflammation  of  the  Pleura. 

Description. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  serous  membrane  lining 
the  cavity  in  which  the  lungs  are  situated  and  covering  the  lungs  them- 
selves. As  this  membrane  lines  the  chest  and  also  covers  the  lungs,  there 
are  two  serous  surfaces  touching  each  other  and  when  one  surface  js  in- 
flamed the  other  is  likely  to  be  also.  Pleurisy  is  very  painful.  The  pleura 
is  likely  to  be  inflamed  in  pneumonia  and  then  we  are  said  to  have  pleuro- 
pneumonia. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a sharp,  stitching  pain  and  short,  catchy  breath- 
ing. The  disease  may  set  in  with  a chill,  followed  by  fever  and  a severe 
stitching  pain  in  the  side.  This  pain  is  terribly  distressing  and  is  usually 
referred  to  the  nipples  or  toward  the  arm  pit.  It  can  be  felt  low  down  in 
the  back.  It  is  a sharp,  stitching  pain  and  is  made  worse  by  breathing  and 
coughing.  The  fever  is  not  very  high  but  is  higher  on  the  affected  side 
than  on  the  sound  side.  The  temperature  may  drop  to  normal  at  the  end 
of  a week  or  ten  days.  The  coughing  is  an  early  symptom  but  is  not  so 
distressing  as  in  pneumonia.  There  is  not  much  expectoration  (spitting). 
In  some  cases  tj^ere  is  left  what  is  called  “water  in  the  chest”  (hydro- 
thorax). Sometimes  the  chest  must  be  tapped  and  this  water  drawn  off. 
There  is  sometimes  pus  in  the  chest  after  an  acute  attack  of  pleurisy  and 
this  is  called  purulent  pleurisy.  This  sometimes  follows  other  diseases  and 
especially  scarlet  fever.  This  purulent  pleurisy  or  empyema  is  met  with 
under  the  following  conditions: 

(a)  As  a result  of  sero-fibrinous  pleurisy. 


122 


1'HR  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


(b)  It  is  common  as  a secondary  inflammation  in  various  infectious 
diseases,  among  which  scarlet  fever  takes  first  place. 

(c)  It  may  result  from  local  causes  like  fracture  of  the  ribs,  pene- 
trating wounds,  malignant  disease  of  the  lungs  and  gullet,  and  perhaps  most 
frequently  of  all,  the  perforation  of  the  pleura  by  pus  from  tuberculous  cav- 
ities. This  pus  may  break  through  into  the  gullet,  peritoneum,  pericardium, 
or  the  stomach  or  even  go  down  farther  into  the  lower  abdomen,  or  belly. 
This  should  always  be  looked  for  and  especially  if  the  original  lung  dis- 
ease continues  for  a long  time. 

TREATMENT. — For  purulent  pleurisy  there  must  be  an  operation  for 
the  removal  of  the  pus  so  that  the  treatment  here  given  applies  more  par- 
ticularly to  the  dry  or  acute  pleurisy. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Small  doses  of  either  tincture  of  aconite  or 
veratrum  viride  are  good  in  the  early  stages.  Of  either  of  these  medicines  the 
dose  for  adults  is  1 drop  every  half  hour  until  the  patient  is  slightly  sick 
at  the  stomach  or  until  the  skin  becomes  moist.  Then  stop.  At  first  you 
may  give  calomel  or  epsom  salts.  One  fourth  grain  of  calomel  is  usually 
given  every  half  hour  until  the  bowels  move.  This  is  then  followed  with 
epsom  salts  if  it  is  thought  best  to  have  the  bowels  move  more  freely. 

Allow  rest  and  a liquid  diet  and  for  adults  give  Dover’s  powder  at  night. 

If  necessary  for  the  pain  a hypodermic  injection  of  % grain  of  morphine 
may  be  given  to  adults.  ■ A mustard  plaster  may  be  applied  locally.  For 
the  pain  in  children  small  doses  of  codeine  may  be  given.  The  dose  is  1/25 
of  a grain. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Put  15  drops  of  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite 
into  half  a glass  of  water  and  into  another  half  glass  of  water  put  15  drops 
of  the  second  dilution  of  Byronia.  Alternate  these  two  medicines  giving  two 
teaspoonfuls  every  half  hour  or  every  hour  until  the  pain  is  relieved. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Either  leeches  or  adhesive  plaster  may  be  applied. 
Of  course  if  the  adhesive  plaster  is  applied  you  cannot  apply  the  leeches. 
In  case  you  sweat  the  patient  the  plaster  should  be  applied  afterward  for 
the  plaster  will  be  loosened  if  applied  before  sweating.  Take  strips  of  ad- 
hesive plaster  2 inches  wide  and  when  applied  they  should  be  lapped  an  inch 
each  time.  Begin  at  the  backbone  and  bring  the  plaster  around  horizontally 
to  the  sternum""or  breastbone.  Do  not  follow  the  ribs  but  bring  the  plaster 
around  straight  from  the  backbone  to  the  breastbone.  Apply  from  below 
upward  and  with  enough  pressure  to  prevent  almost  any  movement  of  the 
wall  of  the  chest  on  that  side.  Do  not  do  this  to  children  as  their  ribs 
are  softer  and  bend  too  much.  This  treatment  is  also  fine  for  broken  or 
cracked  ribs. 

Keep  the  patient  warm  and  at  rest.  Hot  drinks  are  good  as  they 
cause  sweating  and  bring  the  blood  to  the  surface,  thus  relieving  the  con- 
gested pleura.  Cover  the  affected  side  with  cotton  sprinkled  over  with  cam- 
phorated oil  or  camphor  and  lard.  Or,  you  can  put  on  a jacket  poultice.  Of 
course  you  cannot  do  these  things  if  you  have  applied  the  adhesive  plaster.  ^ 

If  there  is  pus  in  the  chest  it  must  be  removed  by  a surgeon  and  this 
also  applies  when  there  is  water  in  the  chest,  if  the  water  is  not  absorbed  by 
treatment. 

Warm  fomentations  of  hops  or  oats  are  good.  Teas  made  of  either 
Indian  turnip  or  pleurisy  root  are  also  good.  Give  % ounce  of  the  tea  every 
1 to  2 hours.  1'o  promote  expectoration  (spitting)  you  may  give  a tea 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


V?;? 


made  from  comfrey,,  marshmallow  or  skunk  cabbage.  These  teas  should  be 
sweetened  with  honey  and  sharpened  with  vinegar. 

In  the  first  stages  of  pleurisy  the  treatment  given  for  the  first  stages  of 
pneumonia  will  apply.  Get  the  patient  warm  and  in  a good  sweat.  For  this 
purpose  you  may  use  hot  teas,  a hot  foot  bath,  hot  fomentations  or  the  appli- 
cation of  dry  heat.  To  apply  dry  heat  you  can  use  small  pieces  of  stove  wood 
heated  in  the  oven  and  wrapped  in  cloth  or  a hot  salt  or  sand  bag  or  perhaps 
hot  flatirons.  Every  one  has  bottles  about  the  house.  These  may  be  filled 
with  hot  water,  wrapped  and  placed  near  the  patient.  These  will  soon  remove 
the  chill.  Get  the  patient  to  feeling  warm  and  afterwards  moist  and  sweaty. 
It  is  always  a good  plan  after  a sweat  to  bathe  the  patient  under  the  clothes, 
using  a sponge  or  cloth  and  tepid  or  warm  water.  Bathe  but  a small  space 
and  then  dry  before  bathing  more.  After  the  bath,  dry  bed  clothes  and  a 
clean  dry  night  dress  should  be  put  on. 

A lady  whom  I was  attending  had  a severe  attack  of  pleurisy.  After 
making  two  or  three  visits  and  finding  that  she  was  not  getting  along  as  I 
wished,  I made  an  examination  and  found  she  was  very  “ bilious  ” and  in 
consequence  the  skin  was  very  yellow.  I decided  that  this  was  the  reason 
the  medicines  did  not  act  well  for  the  organs  were  dormant  and  not  active  as 
they  should  be. 

I told  the  nurse  (an  old  experienced  lady)  to  give  the  patient  the  “ Corn 
Sweat  ” as  I have  described  it  in  the  ‘‘  Nursing  Department.”  The  nurse  told 
me  that  to  cause  sweating  she  frequently  baked  sticks  of  stove  wood  and 
placed  them  about  the  patient  but  I told  her  that  in  this  case  I wanted  moist 
heat  and  so  the  patient  was  given  the  “ Corn  Sweat.” 

I saw  the  nurse  early  the  next  morning  and  asked  about  the  patient  and 
if  she  had  had  a good  sweat.  The  nurse  replied  that  the  patient  had  sweated 
very  freely  and  was  better  and  then  added : “ but  you  ought  to  have  seen  her 
night  dress.  It  was  all  green  caused  by  the  throwing  off  of  the  bile  and 
poisons.”  The  patient  improved  rapidly  and  this  was  but  one  instance  out 
of  many  where  the  “ Corn  Sweat  ” has  saved  several  trips  of  the  doctor  to  say 
nothing  of  the  pain  and  suffering.  The  “ Corn  Sweat  ” if  used  in  time  will 
save  many  doctor  bills. 

PEOPLE'S  PIOME  REMEDIES. — (Also  see  “ People’s  Home  Remedies  ” 
for  pneumonia,  bronchitis,  etc.) 

1.  Pleurisy  Root. — Make  a tea  of  pleurisy  root  and  give  half  a teacup- 
ful every  hour  or  two.  This  will  promote  sweating. 

2.  Snake  Root,  Pleurisy  Root  and  Blood  Root. — A tea  made  of  white 
snake  root  in  combination  with  pleurisy  root  and  blood  root  is  good  for  lung 
troubles.  Give  from  I/2  an  ounce  to  4 ounces  of  the  tea  at  a dose  very  3 or 
4 hours. 

3.  Boneset  Tea. — At  the  beginning  of  pleurisy  give  boneset  tea.  Give 
from  1 to  4 ounces  of  the  warm  tea  several  times  a day. 

4.  Crawley  Root. — This  is  splendid  for  sweating  purposes.  Give  from 
20  to  30  grains  of  the  powdered  root  in  hot  water  and  repeat  every  hour 
or  two. 

5.  Pleurisy  Root  and  Crawley  Root. — Mix  equal  parts  of  powdered 
' pleurisy  root  and  powdered  crawley  root  and  give  20  grains  in  water  as  hot 

as  the  patient  can  drink.  Repeat  every  hour  or  two.  This  will  produce 
sweating. 

6.  Snake  Root,  Etc. — Keep  the  patient  sweating  gently  by  giving  half 


124 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


a teaspoonful  of  compound  tincture  of  Virginia  snake  root  every  two  or  three 
hours.  If  there  is  a bad  cough  frequently  give  a small  dose  of  tea  made  from 
two  parts  each  of  pleurisy  root  and  wild  cherry  root  and  one  part  of  blood 
root. 

7.  Poke  Root,  Blood  Root,  May  Apple  Root,  Etc. — If  the  pleurisy  is 
chronic  apply  a plaster  to  the  chest  made  in  the  following  way.  Add  a little 
wine  to  equal  parts  of  beeswax  and  burgundy  pitch.  Melt  these  together  and 
stir  in  a little  poke  root,  blood  root  and  may  apple  root.  Spread  some  of  this 
on  a piece  of  cotton  and  apply  warm.  Leave  it  on  the  chest  for  a week 
or  longer. 

8.  Compound  Syrup  of  Horseradish. — For  coughs  and  colds  the  Com- 
pound Syrup  of  Horseradish  will  be  found  excellent  and  may  be  used  for  the 
coughing  in  pleurisy,  pneumonia  and  grip.  Take  4 tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
fresh  horseradish,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  boneset  leaves  and  tops,  1 tablespoon- 
ful of  Canada  snake  root,  2 pounds  of  sugar  and  a sufficient  quantity  of  boil- 
ing water  and  weak  vinegar.  Steep  the  boneset  and  snake  root  in  V2  pint 
of  boiling  water  and  press  well,  adding  boiling  water  to  it  until  I/2  pint  of 
tea  is  obtained;  then  add  the  sugar  and  dissolve  by  slow  heat.  Add  the 
horseradish  to  pint  of  diluted  vinegar ; let  stand  for  2 days  and  then  press, 
adding  more  diluted  vinegar  to  the  .mass  until  pint  of  solution  is  obtained. 
Add  this  to  the  syrup  and  shake  until  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Give  from 
1 to  4 teaspoonfuls  every  2 or  3 hours. 

ASTHMA. 

Bronchial  Asthma. 

Causes. — This  disease  sometimes  runs  in  families  and  especially  in 
families  having  irritable  nervous  systems.  It  may  also  follow  other  diseases. 
It  is  more  frequent  with  men  than  with  women.  Change  of  location  causes 
it  to  come  and  go.  Odors  may  bring  on  an  attack  as  also  may  the  breathing 
of  air  filled  with  dust. 

Symptoms. — The  attack  usually  comes  on  at  night.  The  patient  struggles 
to  breathe  and  has  a sense  of  tightness  across  the  chest  and  a wheezy  cough 
which  is  hard  at  first  and  then  softer  and  followed  by  raising  a little  mucus, 
causing  the  patient  to  feel  easier.  The  patient  is  compelled  to  sit  up  in  bed 
or  go  to  the  window  to  breathe  and  wheeze.  It  may  run  for  several  hours  and 
it  may  last  for  days.  It  gets  better  gradually  and  the  patient  speaks  and 
coughs  more  easily.  There  may  be  the  same  train  of  symptoms  for  several 
evenings.  He  may  not  sufifer  again  for  some  time  but  the  attacks  are 
likely  to  return  unless  a cure  is  effected. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive. — The  old  saying  that  “ an  ounce  of  prevention  is  worth  a 
pound  of  cure  ” applies  in  the  treatment  of  asthma,  so  I will  first  give  a pre- 
ventive for  this  disease.  It  is  also  a cure  for  individual  attacks. 

Asthma  Tincture. — Take  1/2  pound  of  quick  lime  and  “slack”  it  by 
turning  on  2 quarts  of  hot  water  and  while  it  is  “ slacking  ” and  boiling  stir 
in  2 teaspoonfuls  of  tar,  mix  well  and  let  settle.  Take  1/2  pound  of  wild  or 
Indian  turnip,  Yj  pound  of  fresh  milkweed,  and  a small  handful  of  lobelia  leaves, 
and  bruise  and  steep  these  in  2 quarts  of  wine  at  a sand  heat  for  24  hours ; then 
press  and  strain  and  add  the  lime  water  and  bottle  at  once.  Dose — a wine- 
glassful  3 times  a day  for  asthma.  This  asthma  tincture  is  also  good  for 
coughs,  hysterics,  spasms  and  consumption. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LUNGS. 


125 


For  use  in  the  intervals  between  the  attacks  of  asthma  I will  give 
another  prescription.  Take  % pound  of  liverwort,  i/4  pound  of  Solomon’s 
seal,  1/4  pound  of  skunk  cabbage,  I/4  pound  of  horehound  and  2 ounces  of  ' 
blood  root.  Bruise  these  together,  add  water,  boil  until  the  strength  is  ex- 
tracted, strain  and  then  boil  down  to  4 quarts  and  strain  again.  To  this  add 
5 pounds  of  honey  and  % pint  of  brandy  and  allow  it  to  settle.  Take  a wine- 
glassful  3 01  4 times  a day.  Put  a strengthening  plaster  on  the  chest. 

If  there  is  difficult  breathing  take  % ounce  each  of  blood  root,  lobelia 
and  pleurisy  root;  bruise  all  and  add  1 quart  of  wine.  Take  a tablespoon- 
ful occasionally. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — For  relief  when  threatened  with  asthma  inhale 
nitrite  of  amyl  for  a few  minutes.  Smoke  some  of  the  powders  used  for  this 
disease.  A person  with  a strong  heart  can  take  tincture  of  lobelia.  Give  from 
% to  1 teaspoonful  at  one  dose  and  then  repeat  in  10-drop  doses  every  I/2 
hour  to  1 hour  until  circulation  is  depressed  and  the  skin  is  moist  and  perspir- 
ing. This  may  make  the  patient  sick  at  the  stomach  and  cause  him  to  vomit 
but  to  do  any  good  this  medicine  must  be  used  in  these  doses. 

Fluid  extract  of  ipecac  is  also  good.  Give  from  1 to  5 drops  every  10  or 
15  minutes  until  sick  at  the  stomach.  Tincture  of  skunk  cabbage  may  be 
taken  in  teaspoonful  doses  3 times  a day.  Another  remedy  is  the  powdered 
root  of  the  Indian  turnip.  Take  10  grains  3 times  a day. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  1/100  of  a grain  of  Tattar  Emetic  every 
% hour  until  the  patient  feels  a little  sick  at  the  stomach.  For  a child  use 
the  third  trituration  of  the  same  medicine.  Give  1 tablet  every  half  hour 
until  relieved. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Be  careful  of  the  diet  and  also  about  taking  cold.  Be  < 
on  the  outlook  for  other  diseases.  Examine  the  rectum  and  other  openings 
and  also  the  tonsils  to  see  if  they  are  all  right.  Also  examine  for  heart  disease. 
A patient  who  is  subject  to  asthma  should  always  have  on  hand  some  nitrite 
of  amyl.  When  an  attack  comes  on  break  one  of  the  capsules  into  a handker- 
chief and  inhale  the  odor  for  a few  minutes. 

When  the  patient  lives  in  a dry  furnace-heated  house  it  is  well  to  put 
him  into  a bronchitis  tent  as  described  in  the  “ Nursing  Department.”  Steam 
kettles  which  are  manufactured  for  the  treatment  of  this  disease  are  also 
good.  You  can  put  cotton  saturated  with  the  medicine  into  the  receptacle  for 
it  and  the  steam  from  the  water  will  go  through  the  cotton  and  relieve  the 
patient.  The  steam  coming  from  the  spout  of  this  little  kettle  is  not  very 
hot  and  you  can  generally  put  your  open  mouth  over  the  spout.  If  it  is  too 
hot  you  can  make  a roll  with  some  writing  paper  and  put  one  end  over  the 
spout  while  you  inhale  the  steam  from  the  other  end.  You  must  get  the 
steam  into  the  bronchial  tubes.  Here  is  a good  soothing  medicine  to  put 
upon  the  absorbent  cotton.  Take  equal  parts  of  tincture  of  benzoin,  oil  of 
eucalyptus  and  oil  of  tar ; put  a tablespoonful  of  this  mixture  upon  the  cotton 
and  put  into  the  receptacle  prepared  for  it.  Then  light  the  alcohol  lamp, 
fill  the  water  basin  half  full  of  water  and  the  saturated  steam  will  soon 
appear.  This  little  kettle  can  be  purchased  for  about  $1.50. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  General  Treatment. — Protect  the  chest  with  warm  clothing.  Do 
not  sleep  on,  or  handle,  beds  or  pillows  made  either  of  feathers  or  straw  but 
use  a corn  husk  mattress  and  a husk  or  air  pillow.  Do  not  use  straw  mat- 
ting in  the  house  or  straw  under  the  carpets.  There  seems  to  be  small  par- 


126 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


tides  fiying  from  matting  and  straw  that  irritate  the  air  passages.  Use 
every  precaution  against  taking  cold.  Discard  corsets  and  do  not  wear  low 
necked  dresses.  Never  sit  down  or  lie  down  with  damp  feet.  Keep  the  feet 
warm  and  the  nerves  quiet.  Some  relief  may  be.  obtained  by  burning  or 
smoking  a little  saltpeter  paper  in  the  room.  Prepare  the  paper  in  the  follow- 
ing way  and  keep  it  on  hand  for  use.  Dissolve  a tablespoonful  of  saltpeter 
in  a teacupful  of  water.  Pour  this  over  some  strips  of  brown  paper  placed  in 
a plate  and  let  it  stand  for  a few  hours,  then  dry  the  papers  in  the  sun  and 
save  for  use.  When  needed  burn  one  of  these  papers  in  the  room  and  breathe 
the  smoke. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  lady  sending  the  above  must  have  had  experi- 
ence with  asthma  for  she  gives  some  good  practical  advice. 

2.  Alum  and  Molasses. — An  excellent  remedy  is  to  take  a teaspoonful 
of  powdered  alum  mixed  with  a little  molasses  every  15  minutes  until  it 
causes  vomiting. 

3.  Mustard  Poultice. — Relief  is  often  obtained  by  applying  a strong 
mustard  poultice  over  the  stomach  and  chest. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Mustard  irritates,  causing  the  tubes  to  dilate  and 
thus  aids  the  breathing. 

4.  Tobacco  or  Stramonium  Leaves. — In  some  cases  the  smoking  of 
either  tobacco  or^ stramonium  leaves  gives  a great  deal  of  relief. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  fumes  enter  the  bronchial  tubes  and  act  di- 
rectly upon  them  and  smoking  these  herbs  is  therefore  better  than  taking 
them  as  medicine. 

5.  Saltpeter. — For  spasmodic  asthma  soak  a sheet  of  unglazed  paper 
in  a solution  of  saltpeter  for  15  or  20  minutes,  then  fold  and  dr\^  it  in  an 
oven.  When  an  attack  comes  on  light  one  end  of  the  paper  allowing  it  to 
burn  so  that  the  patient  may  inhale  the  fumes. 

Physician’s  Remark. — A few  drops  of  tincture  of  benzoin  sprinkled  upon 
the  paper  makes  it  more  effective.  Saltpeter  paper  and  stramonium  leaves 
when  smoked  and  the  fumes  inhaled  often  relieve  attacks  of  asthma. 

6.  Lobelia  Tea. — Steep  an  ounce  of  dry  lobelia  leaves  in  a pint  of 
water  and  give  a tablespoonful  every  15  minutes  until  it  produces  vomiting. 
The  tincture  of  lobelia  is  also  used.  The  dose  is  from  15  to  60  drops. 

7.  Mullein  Leaves  and  Saltpeter. — Soak  some  dried  mullein  leaves  in 
a solution  of  saltpeter  and  water,  dry  and  put  aside  till  needed.  When  re- 
quired, burn  one  of  these  leaves  and  inhale  the  smoke. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  smoking  of  mullein  leaves  alone  is  considered 
by  many  to  be  a good  remedy  for  asthma  and  others  have  found  the  salt- 
peter to  be  good.  Then  why  should  not  the  two  together  be  a good  combi- 
nation ? 

8.  Vinegar,  Turpentine  and  Egg. — Take  a cupful  of  vinegar;  add  a 
wineglassful  of  turpentine  and  1 egg;  beat  together  and  use  as  a liniment 
on  the  chest. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  produces  counter  irritation. 

9. "  Poplar  Bark  Tea. — Take  a tea  made  by  steeping  white  poplar  bark- 
in  water.  The  dose  is  half  a wineglassful. 


V 


DISEASES  OF  THE  HEART,  ARTERIES 
AND  VEINS. 


(Diseases  of  the  Organs  of  Circulation.) 

Description  of  the  Heart  and  Valves. — The  heart  is  a hollow  muscular 
organ  somewhat  the  shape  of  a cone  and  it  is  located  between  the  right 
and  left  lungs.  It  is  placed  obliquely  in  the  chest,  with  the  broad  end  or 
base  directed  upward,  backward  and  to  the  right,  and  lies  between  points  on  a 
line  with  the  5th  and  8th  dorsal  vertebrae.  The  point,  or  apex,  of  the  heart 
is  downward,  forward  and  to  the  left  and  corresponds  to  the  space  between 
the  cartilages  of  the  5th  and  6th  ribs,  % of  an  inch  to  the  inner  side  and  IV2 
inches  below  the  left  nipple  or  about  3Y2  inches  from  the  middle  line  of  the 
breast  bone  (sternum).  The  base  or  large  end  of  the  heart  is  placed  behind 
the  breast  bone  and  extends  farther  into  the  left  than  into  the  right  half  of  the 
cavity  of  the  chest.  About  one-third  of  the  heart  lies  to  the  right  and  % to  the 
left  of  the  middle  of  the  breast  bone.  It  lies  behind  the  middle  portion  of  both 
breast  bone  and  the  costal  cartilages  of  the  3rd,  4th,  5th  and  6th  ribs  of  both 
sides.  In  a grown  person  the  heart  measures  about  5 inches  in  length,  3% 
inches  in  breadth  at  its  broadest  part  and  2%  inches  thick. 

The  heart  is  divided  into  right  and  left  sides  by  a muscular  wall  (septum) 
which  runs  lengthwise  of  the  heart.  The  right  side  is  called  the  right  or 
pulmonary  heart  and  the  left  side  is  called  the  left  or  systemic  heart.  The 
right  side  is  called  the  pulmonary  heart  because  it  sends  the  blood  to  the  lungs 
and  the  left  side  is  called  the  systemic  heart  because  it  sends  the  blood 
all  through  the  system.  Another  wall  or  constriction  in  the  heart  divides 
each  half  into  an  upper  and  lower  cavity.  The  two  upper  cavities  are 
called  auricles  and  the  two  lower  cavities  are  called  ventricles.  We  thus  have 
a right  and  a left  auricle  and  a right  and  a left  ventricle.  The  auricles  occupy 
the  base  or  large  end  of  the  heart.  The  right  side  of  the  heart  contains 
venous  or  impure  blood  and  the  left  side  contains  arterial  or  pure  blood. 

Plan  of  Circulation. — From  the  general  system  the  venous  or  impure 
blood  enters  the  right  auricle  and  from  there  it  goes  down  into  the  right 
ventricle  through  an  opening  guarded  by  the  tricuspid  valves  and  it  leaves  the 
right  ventricle  through  an  opening  guarded  by  the  pulmonary  semilunar  valves. 
From  the  heart  the  impure  blood  is  carried  by  the  pulmonary  artery  to  the 
lungs  to  be  purified.  It  circulates  through  the  lungs  and  gives  ofif  its  impuri- 
ties and  takes  in  fr'^sh  oxygen  from  the  air.  The  pulmonary  vein  brings  the 
blood  from  the  lungs,  after  being  purified,  back  to  the  heart.  It  first  enters 
the  left  auricle  and  then  goes  through  an  opening,  guarded  by  the  mitral 
valve,  down  into  the  left  ventricle.  The  blood  is  forced  from  the  left 
ventricle  through  an  opening  guarded  by  the  aortic  semilunar  valves.  It  is 
carried  from  the  heart  by  the  aorta  artery  and  this  divides  and  subdivides 
into  many  smaller  arteries  so  that  the  blood  reaches  every  part  of  the  body 
and  gives  up  its  oxygen  to  the  various  parts  and  takes  in  the  impurities.  It 

^27 


128 


THE  PEOPLE^S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


is  then  collected  by  the  veins  and  carried  back  to  the  heart  and  thus  it  con- 
tinues making  its  tour  of  the  body  as  long  as  we  live. 

We  have  spoken  of  a number  of  valves  in  the  heart.  If  these  valves 
become  weakened  or  diseased  they  cannot  entirely  close  the  openings  of  the 
heart  and  part  of  the  blood  flows  back  each  time  with  a gurgling  sound 
called  regurgitation. 

EMERGENCY  REMEDIES  OR  WHAT  TO  DO  IN  CASE  OF  HEART 

FAILURE. 

Persons  having  heart  disease  should  always  keep  certain  remedies  on 
hand  to  be  used  in  case  of  emergency.  We  will  mention  several  of  these 
remedies  and  tell  how  they  should  be  used  and  the  members  of  the  house- 
hold should  become  familiar  with  them  and  their  uses. 

Nitrite  of  amyl  perles  should  always  be  at  hand  and  one  who  has  heart 
trouble  should  always  carry  some  of  these  capsules  with  him.  Break  one 
into  a handkerchief  and  inhale  the  fumes  for  a few  minutes  when  you  feel  a 
fainting  attack  coming  on. 

Buy  some  tablets  containing  1/60  of  a grain  of  strychnine  and  when 
an  attack  comes  on  give  one  of  these  tablets  and  if  necessary  repeat  in  from 
% hour  to  1 hour  if  no  other  medicine  like  digitalis  has  been  given.  Never 
give  more  than  the  two  doses  and  never  give  but  one  dose  if  other  heart 
medicines  have  been  given.  Strychnine  is  good  when  there  is  a weak  and 
faint  feeling  caused  by  over  exertion,  anger,  etc. 

Also  keep  a one  or  two-ounce  bottle  of  digitalis  within  reach.  You  can 
give  5 drops  and  repeat  the  dose  in  10  minutes  and  again  in  half  an  hour  if 
necessary.  If  it  works  well  the  patient  can  breathe  easier  and  if  necessary 
it  may  then  be  taken  4 times  a day  for  the  next  two  days.  Digitalis  may  be 
given  also  when  but  one  of  the  strychnine  tablets  above  have  been  given. 
Do  not  give  more  than  one  dose  of  the  strychnine  if  you  use  digitalis,  brandy 
or  whiskey. 

Besides  these  remedies  there  should  also  be  at  hand  some  spirits  of 
camphor  or  ammonia  to  smell  of  and  some  brandy  or  whiskey  for  a stimulant 
and  for  palpitation  caused  by  stomach  trouble.  For  gas  on  the  stomach 
which  distresses  the  heart  it  is  well  to  keep  some  baking  soda,  ginger  or 
peppermint  at  hand. 

In  case  of  emergency  you  can  then  give  the  patient  the  amyl,  camphor 
or  ammonia  to  smell  of  and  also  give  either  strychnine  or  the  digitalis  or  if 
these  are  not  at  hand  you  can  give  either  the  whiskey,  brandy,  ginger,  pepper- 
mint or  soda  according  to  the  case.  If  the  patient  can  breathe  easily  he 
should  be  laid  flat  but  if  the  breathing  is  difficult  he  should  be  propped  up  in 
bed  with  plenty  of  pillows  to  support  him.  See  that  the  arms  and  legs  have 
proper  support.  Remember  that  the  patient  must  have  plenty  of  fresh  air 
but  that  it  should  be  warm  as  patients  suffering  from  an  attack  of  heart 
trouble  feel  the  cold  intensely.  Avoid  all  sudden  movements  and  noises  that 
would  startle  the  patient. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — A person  with  heart  trouble  should  be  kept  in  a com- 
fortable position.  This  is  sometimes  difficult  to  do  owing  to  dropsy  and 
difficult  breathing  which  causes  bodily  distress  and  restlessness.  If  it  is  diffi- 
cult for  the  patient  to  breathe  he  should  be  kept  propped  up  in  bed  or  in  an 
easy  chair  with  plenty  of  pillows  to  provide  rest  for  the  arms.  Avoid  move- 
ments and  noises  that  will  startle  the  patient.  Admit  plenty  of  warm  fresh  air. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  HEART. 


129 


The  diet  must  be  carefully  regulated.  There  is  always  a tendency  toward 
flatulence,  or  wind  in  the  stomach  and  bowels,  in  heart  disease.  Foods  such 
as  starch  and  sugar  tend  to  increase  this  gas  and  should  be  avoided.  But 
little  liquid  should  be  given  when  there  is  dropsy.  A milk  diet  is  best  during 
any  heart  disease  and  is  often  improved  by  giving  the  whites  of  eggs,  etc., 
in  it.  Be  careful  to  keep  the  bowels  regular  and  the  kidneys  working  freely. 
The  stomach  should  not  be  overloaded  and  the  patient  should  not  eat  any 
food  that  disagrees  with  him  or  that  produces  gas.  The  gas  will  press  upon 
the  heart  by  distending  the  stomach  and  cause  much  distress.  The  patient 
should  not  take  stimulants  and  especially  alcohol.  The  bowels  must  be  kept 
open  by  laxatives  if  necessary.  If  the  kidneys  do  not  act  freely  make  a tea 
of  digitalis  which  is  commonly  known  as  foxglove  and  give  from  1 to  4 tea- 
spoonfuls every  3 pr  4 hours  for  a few  days.  The  tincture  of  digitalis  should 
not  be  given  without  directions  from  the  doctor  unless  it  is  an  emergency 
case. 

A person  who  is  affected  with  disease  of  the  heart  should  lead  a life 
free  from  excitement,  worry,  grief  and  trouble.  He  should  never  hurry  and 
should  never  run  or  over-do  in  any  way.  The  heart  must  not  be  overworked. 

When  one  having  heart  trouble  has  a bad  spell  or  suffers  from  an  attack 
of  shortness  of  breath  with  difficult  and  distressing  breathing  and  the  pulse 
is  irregular  and  either  weak  or  fast,  you  can  give  5 drops  of  digitalis  in  a 
little  water.  This  may  be  repeated  in  10  minutes  and  again  in  half  an  hour 
if  necessary.  Two  hours  later  you  can  give  another  dose  and  for  the  next 
two  days  it  may  be  given  four  times  a day  if  necessary  but  should  not  be 
continued  longer. 

If  a person  with  heart  disease  is  taken  with  a weak  faint  attack  and  is 
unable  to  sit  up  and  must  lie  down,  a tablet  containing  1/60  of  a grain  of 
strychnine  would  be  a good  thing  to  give.  The  patient  should  also  smell 
of  camphor  or  ammonia  or  amyl.  Blot  brandy  or  whiskey  is  good  in  such  cases 
and  especially  if  the  spell  is  caused  by  a bad  stomach.  The  liquor  causes  the 
gas  to  come  up  and  this  relieves  the  patient.  .Remember  that  any  one  who 
feels  faint  should  lie  down  with  his  head  low  if  he  can  breathe  in  that  position. 
The  clothes  round  the  neck  and  waist  should  be  loosened  and  fresh  air  must 
be  admitted  to  the  room. 

Ginger,  peppermint  and  soda  are  also  good  for  the  gas  on  the  stomach, 
but  soda  must  be  used  with  caution  when  there  is  organic  heart  trouble.  It 
will  relieve  the  gas  in  a few  moments  but  right  at  first  it  is  likely  to  distend 
the  stomach  and  if  the  heart  is  in  a very  bad  condition  it  might  be  dangerous  by 
causing  more  pressure  on  the  heart. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PALPITATION  OF  THE  HEART. 

1.  Tincture  of  Ginger. — Take  half  a teaspoonful  of  tincture  of  ginger 
every  hour. 

2.  Baking  Soda. — Drink  half  a glass  of  water  with  a teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  it. 

. 3.  Table  Salt. — If  it  is  caused  by  the  stomach  and  comes  on  upon 
lying  down  at  night,  eat  a little  table  salt.  The  lady  sending  this  recipe 
advises  that  the  patient  lie  on  the  back  or  right  side  and  says  that  a very 
small  lump  of  salt  has  given  her  many  a night’s  sleep. 

4.  Magnesia,  Charcoal,  Brandy  and  Cayenne  Pepper. — If  there  is  a sour 
stomach  take . magnesia  or  prepared  charcoal.  Also  put  a little  cayenne 
pepper  into  some  brandy  and  give  that. 

9 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


i;^() 

Physician’s  Remark. — If  stomach  trouble  is  the  cause  this  treatment  will 
help  that  and  consequently  relieve  the  heart  trouble. 

5.  Breathing. — Persons  who  are  subject  to  palpitation  should  abstain 
from  coffee,  tea,  tobacco  and  liquors.  When  an  attack  comes  on  the  patient 
should  lie  upon  the  back  and  draw  in  full  breaths  of  air  to  fill  the  lungs. 

Physician’s  Remark.— This  is  good  advice  to  follow  in  this  trouble. 

COMPENSATION  AND  FAILURE  OF  COMPENSATION. 

The  heart  has  a certain  reserve  force  by  which  it  can  for  a time  do  more 
work  than  it  is  usually  called  upon  to  perform,  and  which,  when  any  part 
of  the  heart  becomes  diseased,  often  allows  of  its  adjusting  itself  to  the  new 
conditions  thus  warding  off  the  ill  effects  of  the  disease.  This  reserve  force 
is  called  ‘‘  compensation.”  A person  may  have  heart  disease  for  years  with- 
out knowing  it  or  being  inconvenienced  by  it  beyond  an  occasional  bhortness 
of  breath  when  climbing  or  walking  quickly.  If,  for  any  reason,  the  heart 
ceases  to  adjust  itself  to  the  conditions  forced  upon  it  by  disease,  there  is 
said  to  be  “ failure  of  compensation.” 

ENLARGEMENT  OF  THE  HEART-DILATATION. 

Dilatation  of  the  heart  means  enlargement  of  the  cavities  of  the  heart. 
Dilatation  is  frequently  one  of  the  means  by  which  the  heart  adjusts  itself 
to  the  extra  work  forced  upon  it  by  disease.  Hypertrophy  is  an  enlargement 
of  the  heart  due  to  an  increased  thickness,  total  or  partial,  in  the  muscular 
walls  of  the  heart.  It*  is  the  principal  factor  in  compensation.  It  sometimes 
causes  headache,  roaring  in  the  ears,  flushing  of  the  face  and  ‘‘  heart  pain.” 
Dilatation  is  an  increase  in  size  of  one  or  more  chambers  or  cavities  of 
the  heart  either  with  or  without  thickening  of  the  muscular  walls.  Generally 
enlargement  of  the  cavities  and  of  the  walls  of  the  heart  go  together.  The  en- 
largement may  affect  the  entire  heart,  one  side,  or  only  one  chamber.  As 
the  ventricles  do  the  chief  work  in  forcing  the  blood  through  the  arteries  it 
is  natural  that  the  change  or  enlargement  is  most  frequently  found  in  them. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a sense  of  fullness  and  discomfort,  rarely  amount- 
ing to  pain,  about  the  heart.  This  may  be  very  noticeable  when  the  patient 
is  lying  on  his  left  side.  There  may  be  palpitation,  headaches,  flushes  in  the 
face,  noises  in  the  ears  and  there  may  be  flashes.  A physical  examination 
shows  a weak  and  enlarged  heart.  The  heart  sounds  are  not  normal.  The 
pulse  is  small,  weak,  quick  and  often  irregular. 

TREATMENT.— 

You  must  treat  the  disease  that  causes  it.  Look  after  the  kidneys  and 
toxic  (poison)  diseases  such  as  typhoid  fever,  scarlet  fever,  etc. 

NEUROSIS. 

Description. — This  is  a nervous  affection  of  the  heart  in  which  there  is 
no  real  heart  disease. 

Causes. — It  occurs  most  frequently  in  connection  with  hysteria,  dis- 
tention of  the  stomach  and  anemia  and  as  the  result  of  the  over  use  of  to- 
bacco or  stimulants. 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  occur  only  in  paroxysms.  There  is  violent, 
rapid  and  often  irregular  heart  action,  heart  pain,  difficulty  in  breathing  and 
a feeling  of  suffocation. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  HEART. 


131 


TREATMENT.— 

Stop  the  use  of  tobacco  and  alcohol  if  that  be  the  cause.  Treat  the 
anemia,  hysteria  or  other  disease  that  causes  it. 

FATTY  HEART. 

This  is  often  caused  by  over-eating,  a lazy  inactive  life,  lack  of  exercise 
and  too  much  drinliing  of  liquors. 

REGURGITATION. 

This  is  flowing  back  of  the  blood  due  to  improper  or  insufficient  closing 
of  the  valves  of  the  heart.  It  is  most  commonly  the  result  of  endocarditis. 
Treat  the  cause. 

STENOSIS. 

This  is  due  to  the  thickening  of  the  valve  and  the  obstruction  of  the 
blood  flow.  If  the  mitral  valve  is  affected  it  is  called  mitral  stenosis  and  if 
'the  aortic  valve  is  affected  it  is  called  aortic  stenosis. 

BREAST  PANG— ANGINA  PECTORIS. 

The  real  angina  pectoris  is  a rare  disease.  It  is  really  but  a symptom 
goin^  with  hardening  of  the  root  of  the  aorta  and  changes  in  the  coronary 
arteries  and  with  other  diseased  conditions  of  the  heart. 

Symptoms. — It  is  marked  by  paroxysms  of  agonizing  pain  in  the  region 
of  the  heart  and  extending  into  the  neck  and  arms.  In  violent  attacks  there 
is  a sensation  of  impending  death. 

Treatment. — A doctor  must  always  be  called  for  violent  heart  pain. 
The  patient  should  lead  a quiet  life.  During  the  attack  inhale  nitrite  of 
amyl.  Break  one  of  the  perles  or  capsules  containing  from  2 to  5 drops 
upon  the  handkerchief  and  inhale.  If  this  fails  to  give  relief  in  a few  min- 
utes the  patient  should  take  a few  breaths  of  chloroform.  If  the  pain  con- 
tinues take  a hypodermic  injection  of  % grain  of  morphine.  Smell  of  cam- 
phor or  ammonia.  Always  keep  the  feet  warm.  Do  not  over  exercise  when 
affected  with  any  heart  trouble.  Let  the  bicycle  alone,  do  not  run  for  cars  or 
trains  and  do  not  hurry  in  any  way. 

PERICARDITIS. 

Description. — The  pericardium  is  a membrane  or  sac  surrounding  the 
heart.  Pericarditis  is  inflammation  of  this  membrane. 

Causes. — It  usually  develops  from  other  diseases  such  as  rheumatism, 
Bright’s  disease,  diphtheria,  etc. 

Symptoms. — There  is  fever,  distress,  tenderness  and  sometimes  pain  at 
the  heart  and  radiating  from  it.  There  is  a rapid,  feeble  and  irregular  pulse. 
There  is  anxietv.  si^'kne'^s  at  the  stoma^'h  and  vomiting  and  in  some  cases 
there  is  a short  hacking  cough.  Toward  the  end  there  is  pallor,  coldness,  a 
livid  face  and  swelling  of  the  face  and  extremities.  The  sac  sometimes 
fills  with  water. 

Treatment. — Apply  the  ice  bag  and  ob'^erve  absolute  quiet.  Aconite  and 
digitalis  may  do  some  good  but  it  is  doubtful.  The  diet  should  be  light, 
dry  and  nutritious  for  there  is  often  an  accumulation  of  water  before  the 
disease  has  lasted  long.  Use  blisters  for  the  water.  Treat  symtoms  as  they 
arise. 


13^ 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


^ ENDOCARDITIS. 

(Acute,  Malignant  and  Chronic.) 

This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  membrane  lining  the  inside  of  the  heart 
It  is  usually  confined  to  the  valves  and  it  occurs  in  two  or  three  forms.  The 
simple  or  acute  kind  is  characterized  by  growths  on  the  valves  or  membrane 
and  with  loss  of  substance  in  the  valve  tissues  The  chronic  kind  is  a slow 
hardening  change  resulting  in  thickening,  puckering  and  deformity.  The 
simple  or  acute  kind  is  usually  found  with  some  other  affection.  It  is 
frequently  associated  with  acute  articular  (joint)  rheumatism  and  tonsilitis 
may  be  complicated  with  it.  It  is  not  uncommon  in  scarlet  fever  but  is  rare 
in  measles,  chicken-pox,  diphtheria,  small-pox  and  typhoid  fever.  In  pneu- 
monia all  kinds  are  common.  The  acute  simple  kind  is  very  frequent  in 
fatal  cases  of  St.  Vitus’s  dance  or  chorea.  Endocarditis  is  met  with  also  in 
cancer,  gout,  diabetes  and  simple  acute  Bright’s  disease. 

Symptoms  of  Acute  Kind. — The  symptoms  are  not  very  characteristic. 
In  acute  rheumatism  the  heart  beats  faster  and  is  slightly  irregular  and  the 
fever  increases  without  more  joint  trouble.  There  is  sometimes  difficulty 
in  breathing.  You  must  always  watch  the  heart  in  acute  rheumatism. 

Malignant  endocarditis  is  usually  secondary  to  some  other  disease  and 
is  really  an  intensified  acute  endocarditis. 

Acute  endocarditis  frequently  runs  into  chronic  endocarditis.  The  hard- 
ening (sclerosis)  may  be  primary  but  is  often  secondary  to  acute  endocar- 
ditis. The  hardening  leads  to  deformity  of  the  valves  and  is  the  foundation 
for  chronic  valvular  heart  disease.  Alcohol,  syphilis  and  gout  appear  to  be 
capable  of  causing  this  hardening.  Another  cause  is  the  strain  of  prolonged 
and  heavy  muscular  exertion  like  heavy  lifting.  This  disease  may  cause 
hardening  of  the  aortic  valves  in  young  people  and  middle  aged  men. 

CHRONIC  VALVULAR  HEART  DISEASE. 

Description. — This  is  due  to  a diseased  condition  of  the  valves.  The 
hardening  causes  weak  valves  or  stenosis.  This  weakness  of  the  valves  and 
stenosis  (narrowing)  may  exist  alone  or  together.  This  narrowing  parti- 
ally hinders  the  normal  outflow  of  blood  and  the  weakness  of  the  valves 
permits  the  blood  current  to  take  a wrong  course  and  part  of  the  blood 
flows  backward.  In  either  narrowing  or  weakness  the  effect  is  dilatation  or 
enlargement  of  a cavity  of  the  heart.  In  stenosis,  or  narrowing,  the  result  is 
an  increase  in  the  difficulty  which  the  chamber  has  in  expelling  the  blood 
through  the  narrow  opening.  If  there  is  insufficiency  or  weakness  of  the  valve 
the  result  is  the  over  filling  of  a chamber  of  the  heart  bv  blood  coming  into 
it  from  an  improper  source,  for  instance,  in  mitral  insufficiency  or  weakness, 
of  the  mitral  valve  between  the  left  ventricle  and  left  auricle,  the  blood  flows 
into  the  left  auricle  from  the  pulmonary  vein  as  it  should  do  but  the  blood 
also  flows  into  it  from  the  left  ventricle  and  stretches  the  walls  of  the  auricle, 
causing  dilatation  and  finally  enlargement.  This  flowing  back  of  the  blood 
is  most  commonly  c?iused  by  weakness  in  the  valves  but  may  be  caused  by  an 
abnormally  large  orifice  or  opening  so  that  the  valve  does  not  entirely  close 
it.  This  trouble  is  more  frequent  in  males  and  affects  chiefly  able  bodied 
vigorous  men  of  middle  age. 

Symptoms. — Headache,  dizziness,  flashes  of  light  and  a feeliiyg  of  faint' 
ness  on  rising  quickly  are  among  the  earliest  symptoms.  Palpitation  and 
heart  distress  are  common  on  slight  exertion.  The  pain  may  be  dull,  aching 


DISEASES  OF  THE  HEART. 


133 


and  confined  to  the  heart  region  but  more  frequently  it  is  sharp  and  radiating 
and  is  felt  up  the  neck  and  down  the  arms  and  particularly  the  inside  of  the 
left  arm.  Attacks  of  true  breast  pang  are  more  frequent  in  this  than  in 
any  other  valvular  disease.  As  the  disease  progresses  there  is  shortness  of 
breath  and  swelling  of  the  feet.  The  patient  must  sit  up  in  a chair  to  sleep. 
The  attacks  are  likely  to  come  on  at  night. 

AORTIC  STENOSIS. 

Aortic  stenosis,  or  narrowing,  is  not  nearly  as  common  as  insufficiei.  y 
or  weakness. 

Symptoms. — The  early  symptoms  are  due  to  a defective  blood  supply  to 
the  brain  causing  dizziness  and  fainting.  There  is  palpitation  and  pain 
about  the  heart  and  also  breast  pain.  These  symptoms  are  not  so  marked 
as  when  there  is  weakness  or  insufficiency. 

MITRAL  VALVE  INCOMPETENCY. 

This  weakness  or  insufficiency  of  the  mitral  valve  ensues: 

(a)  From  changes  in  the  valve  segments  whereby  they  are  contracted 
and  shortened,  usually  combined  with  changes  in  the  tendinous  cords  inside 
the  ventricle  or  with  more  or  less  narrowing  of  the  orifice  or  opening. 

(b)  As  a result  of  changes  in  the  muscular  walls  of  the  ventricle;  either 
dilatation,  so  that  the  valve  segments  fail  to  close  an  enlarged  opening,  or 
changes  in  the  muscular  substance  so  that  the  segments  are  imperfectly  con- 
tracted during  the  systole  or  contraction  of  the  heart.  The  common  causes 
producing  insufficiency  are  endocarditis  which  causes  a gradual  thickening 
at  the  edges  of  the  valves,  contraction  of  the  tendinous  cords,  and  union  of 
the  edges  of  the  segments.  These  segments  are  parts  that  make  up  the  valve. 
In  the  majority  of  cases  there  is  not  only  weakness  or  insufficiency  but  some 
narrowing,  or  stenosis,  as  well. 

Symptoms. — These  may  come  on  gradually  and  the  patient  may  not  be 
aware  that  he  has  heart  trouble  on  account  of  perfect  compensation  or  ad- 
justment of  the  heart  to  the  conditions.  He  may  perhaps  experience  a little 
shortness  of  breath  on  exertion  or  on  going  up  stairs.  It  is  only  when  the  heart 
has  not  adjusted  itself  to  the  changed  conditions  or  fails  to  continue  to  do  so 
that  the  patient  begins  to  be  troubled. 

While  the  compensation  is  still  good,  and  before  the  appearance  of  any 
marked  symptoms,  patients  with  extreme  incompetency  often  hnve  a con- 
gested appearance  of  the  face  and  the  lips  and  ears  have  a 1)luish  tint.  In 
long  standing  cases,  particularly  in  children,  the  ends  of  the  fingers  mav  be 
larger  and  there  is  shortness  of  breath  on  exertion.  The  patients  have  a 
tendency  toward  attacks  of  bronchitis  or  bleeding  from  the  lungs  because  of 
the  congested  condition. 

Sooner  or  later  comes  a period  of  disturbed  or  broken  comnensation  in 
which  the  most  intense  symptoms  are  those  of  venous  engorgements  (con- 
gestion in  the  veins).  There  is  piloitation,  a weak  irregular  heart  and  signs 
of  dilatation.  Hard  difficult  breathing  is  a prominent  feature  and  there  may 
be  coughing.  A distressing  symptom  is  the  heart  “ sleep  start.”  in  which, 
just  as  the  patient  falls  asleep,  he  wakes  gasping  and  feeling  as  if  his  heart 
was  stopping.  There  is  usually  a slight  blueness  and  even  a yellow  tint  to 
the  skin.  There  may  be  coughing  with  bloody  or  watery  expectoration 


134 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


(spitting).  There  may  also  be  dropsy  beginning  in  the  feet.  On  putting 
the  ear  over  the  heart  there  is  heard  a blowing  sound  which  is  loudest  at 
the  point  of  the  heart. 

MITRAL  STENOSIS. 

Description. — This  is  a narrowing  of  the  mitral  opening. 

Causes. — This  is  usually  the  result  of  valvular  endocarditis  occurring  in 
the  earlier  years  of  life  and  very  rarely  one  is  born  with  it.  It  is  very  much 
more  common  in  men  than  in  women.  Rheumatism  is  more  common  with 
boys  than  with  girls  and  it  is  well  known  that  endocarditis  of  the  mitral 
valve  is  more  common  in  rheumatism.  Anemia  and  chlorosis  occur  oftener 
in  girls,  however,  and  these  sometimes  produce  endocarditis. 

Symptoms. — In  children  the  lower  part  of  the  breast  bone  and  5th  and 
6th  left  costal  cartilages  are  often  prominent  owing  to  enlargement  of  the 
right  ventricle.  In  ausculation  (listening  with  the  ear  and  instrument), 
at  the  inner  side  of  th^  point  of  the  heart  there  is  usually  heard  a rough  or 
purring  sound.  This  is  characteristic  only  when  compensation  is  maintained. 
Finally,  upon  failure  of  compensation,  other  sharp  sounds  are  heard.  Fol- 
lowing the  failure  of  compensation  are  rapid  and  irregular  action  of  the 
heart,  shortness  of  breath,  coughing  and  signs  of  lung  engorgement,  etc. 
Perhaps  a majority  of  cases  of  mitral  stenosis  are  not  attended  with  dropsy. 

TRICUSPID  VALVE  DISEASE. 

Occasionally  this  results  from  acute  or  chronic  endocarditis  with  puck- 
ering. More  commonly  the  condition  is  one  of  relative  insufficiency  or  weak- 
ness and  is  secondary  to  lesions  of  the  valves  on  the  left  side  and  particularly 
of  the  mitral  valve.  It  is  also  met  with  in  all  conditions  of  the  lungs  which 
cause  obstructed  circulation,  such  as  hardening  and  emphysema  and  partic- 
ularly in  combination  with  chronic  bronchitis. 

TRICUSPID  STENOSIS. 

Stenosis  means  “ narrowing.”  This  may  be  congenital  or  acquired. 

Symptoms. — Blueness  of  the  lips  and  face  is  a very  common  symptom 
and  in  the  late  stages,  when  dropsy  comes  on,  it  is  likely  to  be  intense. 


PULMONARY  VALVE  DISEASE. 

Murmurs  in  this  region  are  extremely  common  but  lesions  of  the 
valves  are  exceedingly  rare.  Pulmonary  stenosis  is  almost  invariably  con- 
genital, that  is,  the  patient  is  born  with  it.  The  signs  are  very  uncertain. 

PULMONARY  INSUFFICIENCY. 

This  is  very  rare. 

GENERAL  TREATMENT  OF  HEART  DISEASE. 

The  treatment  must  be  directed  to  the  conditions  and  symptoms  such 
as  dropsy,  etc.  The  patient  should  live  an  equable  life  and  maintain  an 
even  tem.per  and  in  the  dangerous  conditions  should  observe  absolute  rest. 
Anger,  excitement,  rush,  hurry  and  overdoing  are  very  dangerous.  Avoid 
going  up  and  down  stairs  and  doing  any  work  that  requires  placing  or 


DISEASES  OF  THE  HEART. 


135 


holding  the  arms  higher  than  the  head.  Persons  afflicted  with  heart  trouble 
should  always  keep  proper  medicines  on  hand  both  for  regular  taking  and 
for  emergencies.  (See  Emergency  Treatment.) 

ARTERIO  SCLEROSIS. 

In  this  disease  the  blood  vessels  become  weaker,  crooked  and  more 
likely  to  break  or  rupture. 

Causes. — It  is  caused  by  age  and  intemperance  in  eating  and  drinking. 
Mental  and  physical  over  exertion,  syphilis  and  gout  are  other  causes. 

Treatment. — There  is  very  little  you  can  do  for  it  except  to  keep  the 
patient  in  good  condition.  Do  not  over  exert. 

ANEURISM. 

This  is  a local  dilatation  of  an  artery  and  is  due  to  the  weakening  of  the 
wall  or  coat  of  the  artery  so  that  it  is  unable  to  stand  the  pressure  of  the 
blood.  The  coats  of  the  blood  vessel  are  thinned  and  one  of  the  coats  may 
be  worn  through.  There  is  a lump  in  the  artery  and  a purring  sound  may  be 
heard  upon  putting  the  ear  to  it. 

Treatment. — Rest  and  a quiet  life  and  an  operation  if  possible. 

VARICOSE  VEINS. 

Varix. 

Description. — By  this  is  meant  an  enlarged,  crooked  and  knotty  condi- 
tion of  the  veins.  In  general  use  this  term  is  usually  applied  to  the  veins 
of  the  extremities  and  particularly  to  those  of  the  legs.  The  disease  begins 
by  a slow  dilatation  or  enlargem.ent  of  the  vein  which  gradually  becomes 
thickened  and  crooked.  It  generally  affects  only  the  veins  near  the  surface. 

Causes. — (a)  It  occurs  more  frequently  in  females  than  in  males  and 
often  follows  enlargement  of  the  womb  from  any  cause,  (b)  The  tendency 
toward  varicose  veins  increases  with  advanced  age.  (c)  It  may  be  caused 
by  obstructing  the  flow  of  the  blood  in  the  veins.  Tight  garters  or  other 
tight  clothing  may  thus  cau‘-e  it.  (d)  Occupations  which  require  much 
standing  may  be  the  cause,  fe)  It  is  also  due  to  tumors  of  the  pelvis,  preg- 
nancy and  diseases  of  the  heart  and  lungs. 

Treatment. — Apply  a local  elastic  bandage  or  a perfectly  fitting  silk 
elastic  stocking.  Sometimes  an  operation  is  necessary  and  p'irt  of  the  vnin 
is  rem.oved.  Remove  the  causes  ?nd  attend  to  the  bowels,  liver,  heart  and 
lung  conditions.  Observe  quiet  and  keep  off  the  feet  as  much  as  possible. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Alum  Water,  Lead  Water  or  White  Oak  Tea. — For  varicose  veins 
bathe  the  affected  parts  with  alum  water,  lead  water  or  a tea  made  from 
white  oak  bark. 

2.  Plantain  and  Burdock  Leaves. — Bruise  some  plantain  and  burdock 
leaves  and  bind  unon  the  affected  parts. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — ^\\  the  ingredients  contained  in  the  two  remedies 
ajbove  are  good  because  of  their  astringent  qualities. 

3.  Alcohol. — For  varicose  veins,  bathing  the  parts  freely  with  cold 
water  or  dilute  alcohol  v/i11  be  found  beneficial  at  the  commencement  of 
the  trouble.  After  they  have  become  knotted  or  painful  a laced  stocking 
should  be  worn. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  BLOOD. 

(Including  diseases  of  the  ductless  glands.) 


ANEMIA. 

In  anemia  the  blood  lacks  the  normal  quantity  of  red  cells  or  of  hemo- 
globin in  the  cells. 

Following  we  will  treat  Chlorosis  or  Primary  Anemia,  Secondary  Anemia 
and  Pernicious  Anemia. 

GREEN  SICKNESS— CHLOROSIS. 

Primary  or  Essential  Anemia. 

This  is  a condition  of  the  blood  usually  met  with  in  young  girls.  It  is 
characterized  by  the  small  quantity  of  hemoglobin  and  red  cells  in  the  blood. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a peculiar  pallor  of  the  skin  which  often  has  a 
greenish  hue.  This  is  why  it  is  called  “ green  sickness.”  The  patient  is 
nearly,  if  not  always,  plump  and  possessed  of  a good  quantity  of  fat.  The 
patient  may  be  ruddy  looking  and  the  disease  is  then  called  “ Chlorosis 
Florida.”  Difficult  breathing,  palpitation  of  the  heart,  dizziness  and  perhaps 
attacks  of  partial  fainting  are  some  of  the  symptoms.  There  is  always  con- 
stipation. The  patient  is  gloomy  and  dull. 

Treatment. — The  treatment  is  somewhat  similar  to  the  treatment  of  the 
secondary  form  of  anemia.  Pay  particular  attention  to  the  bowels  and  keep 
them  open.  Larger  doses  of  iron  are  needed  than  for  the  secondary  form  but 
the  iron  is  likely  to  be  constipating. 

SECONDARY  ANEMIA. 

Causes. — Most  cases  of  anemia  belong  to  this  class  and  are  due  to  loss 
of  blood  or  one  of  the  infectious  diseases.  Sometimes  it  comes  from  breath- 
ing foul  air  and  factory  girls  and  stenogranhers  frequently  are  affected.  Over- 
work and  insufficient  and  improner  food  are  also  causes. 

Symptoms. — There  is  marked  paleness  and  the  cheeks  may  have  no  color; 
or,  they  may  have  color  and  even  then  the  patient  may  suffer  from  palpitation 
of  the  heart.  Headache,  neuralgia,  loss  of  annetite,  constipation  and  attacks  of 
fainting  are  sometimes  due  to  anemia  and  in  women  to  amenorrhea  or  no 
monthlv  flow. 

Treatment. — Remove  the  causes.  Eat  a proper  diet  and  live  a hygienic 
life  with  plenty  of  fresh  air,  sunshine  and  outdoor  exercise.  Iron  and  arsenic 
and  sometimes  bitter  tonics  are  used.  For  the  constipation  give  cascara  sag- 
rada  and  especially  if  iron  is  given  for  iron  is  constipating.  Stimulate  the 
appetite  with  drugs  like  mix  vomica,  auinine  or  other  bitter  tonics  like  ca^'da- 
mon  or  gentian.  The  following  is  a good  prescrintion  for  this  trouble.  Take 
5 grains  of  reduced  iron,  grain  of  ars^'nioim  acid  and  5 grains  of  extract  of 
nux  vomica.  Make  this  into  20  pills  and  take  one  after  each  meal.  In  some 
cases  you  can  use  2 grains  of  nuinine  in  nlace  of  the  nux  vomica.  If  the 
stom.ach  is  in  poor  condition  dilute  hvdrochloric  acid  in  5-drop  doses  and 
pepsin  in  5-grain  doses  or  pancreatin  and  soda  or  taka-diastase  in  2 or  3-grain 

136 


DISEASES  OF  THE  BLOOD. 


13r 

doses  with  the  meals  are  advisable.  Or,  you  can  take  the  elixir  taka-diastase  in 
1 to  2 teaspoonful  doses. 

PERNICIOUS  ANEMIA. 

This  is  very  often  a fatal  malady. 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  are  those  of  severe  anemia.  There  is  a 
lemon  colored  skin  and  thin  blood  which  coagulates  slowly.  There  is  a 
tendency  to  bleeding  into  the  skin  and  mucous  membrane.  In  severe  cases 
pus  may  form  around  the  edges  of  the  teeth. 

. LEUKEMIA. 

(The  Blood  Sufferers.) 

There  are  an  extraordinary  number  of  the  white  cells  of  the  blood  with 
alterations  in  the  bone  marrow. 

Cause. — The  cause  is  as  yet  unknown. 

Treatment. — The  treatment  is  not  very  satisfactory.  Large  doses  of 
arsenic  will  delay  the  advance  of  the  disease  and  may  do  some  good.  Give 
5 drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  of  arsenic  3 times  a day. 

HEMOPHYLIA. 

This  is  when  the  blood  does  not  clot  normally.  The  treatment  is  to 
build  up  the  system  with  tonics. 

PURPURA. 

This  is  the  escaping  of  small  quantities  of  the  blood  into  the  skin. 

Treatment. — Eat  easily  digested  and  nutritious  food  and  re:nain  in  the 
sunshine  all  day.  Give  tonics  such  as  iron,  arsenic,  gentian,  quinine  or  co- 
lumbo. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  THE  BLOOD.— Including  Syrups, 
Herbs  Remedies  and  Blood  Purifiers. 

1.  Cider,  Yellow  Dock  and  Horseradish. — To  1 quart  of  hard  cider 
add  1 ounce  of  yellow  dock  root  and  14  ounce  of  horseradish.  Take  a wine- 
glassful  4 times  a day.  This  is  one  of  the  best  blood  purifiers  known  and 
saves  you  the  dollar  you  would  otherwise  pay  the  druggist  for  a patent  medi- 
cine as  it  can  be  made  at  home. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Both  the  yellow  dock  and  the  horseradish  are  alter- 
atives. 

2.  Onions. — Raw  onions  eaten  either  with  or  without  vinegar  are  the 
best  blood  purifiers  known.  Then  why  pay  a dollar  a bottle  for  some  patent 
medicine  that  does  not  have  half  the  virtue  of  the  onions. 

3.  The  Great  German  Blood  Purifier. — Take  a double  handful  each  of 
wild  cherry  bark  and  the  roots, of  burdock,  yellow  dock  and  dandelion;  put 
these  into  2 quarts  of  water  and  boil  down  to  a»  quart;  strain,  and  sweeten 
with  sugar  if  preferred.  The  dose  is  a tablespoonful  before  each  meal.  This 
is  excellent  to  cleanse  the  blood  when  one  has  either  boils  or  carbuncles.  An 
equal  quantity  of  nearly  any  good  blood  purifier  would  cost  you  two  or  three 
dollars  at  the  drug  store.  Take  these  common  herbs  and  make  them  up 
yourself  and  you  will  have  a quart  of  the  best  blood  medicine  in  the  world 
and  at  no  cost  whatever  save  the  time  spent  in  preparing  it. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Burdock  and  yellow  dock  are  alteratives ; the 
former  acts  more  on  the  kidneys  and  bowels  and  the  latter  on  the  blood. 
Wild  cherry  is  more  of  a tonic  and  sedative. 


138 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


4.  Sulphur,  Molasses  and  Cream  of  Tartar. — Sulphur  and  molasses 
with  a little  cream  of  tartar  added  is  a fine  blood  remedy.  Take  three  days 
and  skip  three  days.  The  dose  is  a teaspoonful. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Cream  of  tartar  is  a diuretic  and  acts  on  the  kid- 
neys and  it  is  also  a laxative  and  aids  in  casting  off  the  impurities.  Sulphur 
is  an  alterative  and  a laxative  and  thus  cleanses  the  blood. 

5.  Spikenard. — Use  small  spikenard  either  in  decoction  or  as  a syrup. 
The  dose  is  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

6.  Prickly  Elder. — Use  the  tincture  of  the  prickly  elder  3 or  4 times 
a day.  Five  drops  is  a dose. 

7.  Burdock. — Burdock  is  a good  blood  remedy.  It  may  be  used  as  a 
decoction  or  a syrup.  Take  pint  three  times  a day.  Burdock  is  better  when 
in  combination  with  other  remedies. 

8.  Turkey  Corn  for  Syphilis  and  Scrofula. — Make  a tea  by  using  4 
drams  of  the  powdered  bulb  of  turkey  corn  to  a pint  of  water.  The  dose  is 
from  1 to  4 ounces,  4 times  a day.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  % to  1 
dram.  This  is  good  for  syphilis  and  scrofula. 

9.  Combination  for  Syphilis  and  Scrofula. — For  syphilis  and  scrofula 
combine  blue  flag  with  mandrake,  poke  root,  black  cohosh  and  prickly  ash 
bark.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  10  to  20  drops  and  of  the  powder  from 
5 to  10  grains,  3 or  4 t’mes  a day. 

10.  Sheep  Laurel  for  Syphilis. — Sheep  laurel  is  one  of  the  best  remedies 
for  syphilis.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  of  the  leaves  is  from  5 to  10  drops 
every  2 to  4 hours. 

11.  Yellow  Dock. — Yellow  dock  is  good  for  scrofula,  syphilis,  etc.  It 
may  be  used  alone  or  in  combination.  The  dose  of  the  decoction  is  from  1 
to  4 ounces,  4 times  a day.  The  dose  of  the  fluid  extract  is  1 teaspoonful  4 
times  a day. 

12.  Queen’s  Root. — Queen’s  root  or  stillingia.  either  alone  or  in  combi- 
nation with  other  remedies,  is  good  for  blood  diseases  and  syphilis.  The 
dose  of  the  decoction  is  from  V2  to  1 ounce  3 times  a day. 

13.  Yellow  Dock,  Queen’s  Root  and  Eittersweet.. — Equal  parts  of  yel- 
low dock,  queen’s  root  and  bitterrweet,  made  into  a syrup,  is  very  good  for 
scrofula,  syphilis  and  other  blood  diseases. 

14.  Syrup  of  Turkey  Corn. — Take  2 oounds  of  coarselv  bnn’^pq  roots 
of  turkey  corn,  1 pound  of  twin  leaf,  1 pound  of  blue  flag  root  and  Vo  pound 
of  sheep  laurel  leaves.  Mix  these  articles  together,  place  all  in  a convenient 
vessel,  cover  them  well  with  Tfl  ner  cent,  alcohol  and  steep  for  three  davs. 
Then  transfer  the  whole  to  a displacement  apparatus  (filter,  etc.)  and  grad- 
ually add  hot  water  until  2 pints  and  4 fluid  ounces  of  the  alcoholic  tincture 
have  been  obtained  or  filtered  and  then  set  aside. 

(b)  Continue  the  percolation  of  tlr’s  second  solution,  re'^erve  as  much 
as  contains  a sensible  amotmt  of  soir’ts  a”d  evanorate  the  alcohol  from  it. 

(c)  Continue  the  displacement  by  adding  hot  water  until  the  solution 
obtained  is  almost  tasteless  and  boil  down  this  weaker  infusion  untfl.  when 
add^d  to  the  second  solution  after  the  evaporation  of  its  alcohol,  13t/2  pints 
will  be  left. 

(d)  To  these  2 solutions  combined  add  IS  nounds  of  granulated  sugar 
dissolved  by  gentle  heat,  removing  all  scum  carefullv,  and  if  it  exceeds  15 
pints  and  12  ounces  evaporate  to  that  quantity  with  constant  stirring.  Then 
remove  from  the  fire  and  when  nearly  cold  add  the  solution  first  set  aside, 


DISEASES  OF  THE  BLOOD. 


139 


thus  making  18  pints  of  syrup.  It  may  be  flavored  with  essence  of  sassafras, 
wintergreen,  etc.  This  is  very  good  as  an  alterative  syrup  and  is  good  for 
chronic  syphilis,  scrofula,  liver  troubles  and  rheumatism.  If  you  wish  you 
may  add  1 ounce  of  iodide  of  potash  for  each  pint  of  the  syrup.  The  dose 
of  the  syrup  is  1 teaspoonful,  3 or  4 times  a day. 

15.  Compound  Syrup  of  Stillingia  or  Queen’s  Root. — Take  2 pounds 
each  of  queen’s  root  and  root 'of  turkey  corn;  1 pound  each  of  blue  flag  root, 
elder  flowers  and  pipsissewa  leaves;  and  % pound  each  of, coriander  and 
prickly  ash  berries.  Frequently  1 ounce  of  iodide  of  potash  is  added  to 
each  pint  of  syrup. 

(a)  Grind  and  mix  all  the  articles,  place  all  in  a vessel  and  cover  with 
76  per  cent,  alcohol  and  macerate  for  3 days.  Then  transfer  to  a displace- 
ment apparatus  and  gradually  add  hot  water  until  4 pints  of  the  solution  have 
been  filtered,  which  retain  ''nd  set  aside. 

(b)  Continue  the  fijteii..g  with  hot  water  and  of  this  second  solution 
reserve  so  much  as  contains  a sensible  amount  of  spirit  and  evaporate  the 
alcohol. 

(c)  Continue  the  filtering  with  hot  water  until  the  solution  obtained  is 
almost  tasteless  and  boil  down  until  when  the  second  solution  is  added  it 
will  make  24  pints. 

(d)  To  these  2 solutions  combined  add  32  pounds  of  granulated  sugar 
and  dissolve  by  gentle  heat.  If  it  exceeds  28  pints  evaporate  to  that  amount 
with  constant  stirring.  Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  when  nearly  cold 
add  the  4 pints  (first  solution)  and  make  4 gallons  of  svrup.  The  dose  is 
from  1 to  8 teaspoonfuls,  3 or  4 times  a day.  This  is  good  in  chronic  diseases 
such  as  syphilis,  scrofula,  liver  and  glandular  diseases.  Usually  the  iodide 
of  potash  is  added  as  previously  mentioned.  These  formulas  can  be  made 
into  infusions  or  decoctions  instead  of  syrups  if  desired.  The  herbs  should 
then  be  steeped  in  boiling  water  but  in  such  cases  do  not  add  the  alcohol  and 
sugar.  The  dose  then  would  be  from  1 to  4 ounces. 

16.  Compound  Syrup  of  Sar^-aparilla. — This  is  good  for  chronic  liver 
trouble,  rheumatism,  syphilis,  scrofula  and  skin  diseases.  If  desired,  you  can 
add  to  it  1 ounce  of  iodide  of  potash  to  every  pint.  The  dose  is  from  1 tea- 
spoonful to  1 tablespoonful  3 or  4 times  a d'^y.  Take  10  ounces  each  of  the 
roots  of  Honduras  sarsapar*  11a,  roots  of  yellow  dock,  roots  of  burdock  and 
roots  of  guaiacum  wood  and  8 ounces  each  of  the  bark  of  the  root  of  sassa- 
fras, southern  prickly  ash,  elder  flowers  and  blue  flag  root. 

(a)  Grind,  mix,  place  all  in  a convenient  vessel,  cover  with  76  per  cent, 
alcohol  and  macerate  for  two  days.  Then  put  this  in  a filter  and  gradually 
add  hot  water  until  2 pints  have  been  obtained  which  retain  and  set  aside. 

(b)  Continue  the  filtering  and  of  the  second  solution  reserve  as  much 
as  contains  a sensible  amount  of  snirit  and  evaporate  the  alcohol  from  it.  , 

(c)  Continue  the  filtering  by  adding  hot  water  until  the  solution  is 
almost  tasteless  cud  boil  down  this  weaker  solution  until  it  begins  to  thicken 
or  until  when  added  to  the  balance  remaining  of  the  second  portion  it  will 
make  12  pmts. 

(d)  To  these  2 solutions  combined  add  16  pounds  of  granulated  simar 
and  dissolve  bv  heat.  carefuHv  removing  the  scum.  Evaoorate  if  necessary 
to  10  nints.  constantlv  stirring.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  when  nearly 
cold  add  the  first  portion  and  make  2 gallons  of  the  syrup.  This  may  be 
flavored  with  wintergreen. 


140 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  SPLEEN. 

Diseases  of  the  spleen  do  not  generally  exist  independently  but  come 
from  other  diseases.  The  spleen  is  swollen  in  typhoid  fever,  malaria,  hard- 
ened  liver,  etc. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Salt  and  Yolk  of  Egg. — For  chronic  inflammation  of  the  spleen 
apply  over  that  organ  a plaster  made  of  salt  and  the  yellow  of  an  egg. 

2.  Table  Salt. — For  chronic  inflammation  of  the  spleen  take  1 dram  of 
common  table  salt  3 times  a day. 

3.  Wine  and  White  Oak  Bark. — For  “ ague  cake,”  which  is  enlarge- 
ment of  the  spleen,  boil  the  inner  bark  of  white  ash  in  some  white  wine  and 
take  a wineglassful  3 times  a day. 

HODGKIN’S  DISEASE. 

Description. — In  this  disease  there  is  a marked  swelling  and  over-growth 
of  the  lymphatic  glands,  both  internal  and  external. 

Symptoms. — There  is  shortness  of  breath  and  palpitation.  There  are 
enlarged  glands  and  a bronze  skin.  Enlarged  masses  of  the  glands  in  the 
neck  and  the  groin  are  associated  with  puffiness  of  the  face. 

Treatment. — Give  5 drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  of  arsenic  3 times  daily 
for  a week. 

GOITRE. 

Bronchocele — Thyrocele. 

The  thyroid  gland  is  on  the  front  part  of  the  neck.  All  enlargements 
of  this  gland  are  called  goitres. 

Treatment. — Apply  compound  tincture  of  iodine  externally  and  internally 
give  iodide  of  potash,  5 grains  4 times  a day.  Also  give  blood  purifiers. 

Personally  I prescribe  the  compound  tincture  of  iodine  both  externally 
and  internally.  Externally  you  must  use  enough  to  make  the  skin  a little 
sore.  Take  1 drop  internally  4 times  a day.  It  must  sometimes  be  continued 
a long  time  both  externally  and  internally. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Iodine  and  Sweet  Oil. — A lady  writes : “ I removed  a goitre  by  apply- 
ing each  night  before  retiring  a mixture  of  two  parts  iodine  and  1 part 
sweet  oil.  When  the  skin  became  tender  I ceased  application  for  a night  or 
two  then  used  as  before.  I know  others  who  have  used  this  remedy  with 
equal  success.” 

2.  Iodine,  Carbolic  Acid  and  Glycerine. — Put  4 ounces  of  the  compound 
tincture  of  iodine  into  a large  mouthed  bottle  and  add  W dram  of  pure  liquid 
carl)olic  acid  and  % ounce  of  glycerine.  Mix  thoroughly  and  apply  with  a 
feather  or  a cloth  once  or  twice  a day  as  can  be  borne.  A lady  writes  that 
two  members  of  her  family  completely  removed  goitres  with  this  remedy  and 
that  they  never  returned.  This  is  a standard  treatment  recommended  and 
used  by  many  of  our  best  phvsicians. 

3.  Nettle  Seed. — Grind  15  or  Ifi  of  the  seeds  of  common  nettle  into  a 
powder  and  take  daily.  Tlu's  will  cure  a goitre  and  not  injure  the  health. 

4.  Alum,  Borax  and  Salt. — Take  equal  parts  of  alum,  borax  and  salt 
and  water.  Dissolve  the  other  inerredients  in  the  water  and  apply  to  the 
enlarged  neck  3 times  a day  for  3 weeks. 

5.  White  Iodine. — As  soon  as  noticed  rub  with  white  iodine.  Don’t 


DISEASES  OF  THE  BLOOD. 


141 


stop  in  a week  or  a month  but  wash  your  neck  as  often  as  you  wish  and  put 
it  on.  If  the  neck  gets  sore  rest  for  a few  days  and  then  try  again. 

EXOPTHALMIC  GOITRE. 

Basedow’s  Disease — Grave’s  Disease — Parry’s  Disease. 

Symptoms. — There  is  bulging  of  the  eyeballs  and  palpitation  of  the 
heart  with  a very  rapid  pulse.  There  are  fine  tremors  of  the  hands,  arms 
and  head  and  there  is  an  enlarged  neck. 

Treatment. — The  treatment  is  not  very  satisfactory.  Treat  the  symptoms 
and  make  the  patient  comfortable.  Give  good  nourishing  food. 

MYXEDEMA. 

Extraordinary  nutritional  changes  take  place  in  the  body  as  the  result 
of  the  absence,  atrophy  (wasting),  removal,  or  inactivity  of  the  thyroid  gland. 
Peculiar  swelling  of  the  subcutaneous  tissue,  falling  of  the  hair,  mental  fail- 
ure and  feebleness  of  the  circulation  characterize  it. 

Treatment. — Give  2-grain  capsules  of  the  dried  thyroid  gland  of  the  sheep. 
Give  these  2 or  3 times  daily  and  gradually  increase  until  10  or  15  grains  are 
taken  daily,  if  possible.  If  the  extract  of  the  thyroid  gland  is  used,  the 
dose  is  y^,  grain  3 times  daily  at  first.  Watch  for  weakness  of  the  heart. 
Continue  this  for  some  time,  but  under  the  care  of  a good  physician,  and  it 
may.  help. 

CRETINISM. 

The  causes  are  nearly  the  same  as  those  of  myxedema. 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  rarely  develop  before  the  end  of  the  second 
year.  It  may  be  noticeable  when  the  child  is  12  months  old.  The  child  is 
backward  and  mentally  dull.  The  head,  hands  and  feet  may  seem  unduly 
large  in  proportion  to  the  rest  of  the  body.  The  face  is  stupid  and  heavy,  the 
eyes  dull,  the  lips  coarse  and  the  nose  broad  and  flat.  The  lips  are  likely 
to  protrude  with  considerable  dribbling  of  saliva.  The  tongue  is  swollen, 
the  legs  are  short  and  bent,  the  skin  is  sallow  and  greasy  and  the  temperature 
is  below  normal. 

Treatment. — Administer  thyroid  extract.  Begin  with  t/4  grain  3 times 
a day  and  gradually  increase.  It  must  be  carefully  given  and  great  change 
and  good  will  result.  This  thyroid  extract  is  from  the  thyroid  gland  of  the 
sheep. 

ADDISON’S  DISEASE. 

Disease  of  Supra-Renal  Glands. 

Symptoms. — There  is  general  asthenia  (weakness),  the  patient  easily 
tires  and  there  is  a constant  sense  of  fatigue.  The  patient  does  not  get  any 
good  from  rest  and  sleep.  The  heart  sounds  are  lacking  in  tone,  the  pulse 
is  soft,  the  extremities  cold  and  the  temperature  below  normal.  There  is  a 
dark  color  or  pigmentation  of  the  skin.  The  skin  is  of  a bronze  color.  It 
may  be  over  the  whole  body  but  usually  affects  only  the  skin  of  the  face  and 
neck  and  the  back  surfaces  of  the  hands  and  forearms.  If  the  mucous  mem- 
brane of  the  mouth  is  examined  you  will  find  the  inner  side  of  the  lips  are 
darkened  and  also  the  edges  of  the  tongue,  particularly  below.  It  looks  as 
though  ink  had  been  taken  into  the  mouth. 


142 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Treatment. — This  is  very  unsatisfactory.  Treatment  simply  relieves  it. 
Give  good  diet  and  strengthening  remedies  like  iron  and  arsenic  tonics. 

SCURVY. 

Scorbutus. 

Causes. — This  is  due  to  the  too  long  continued  use  of  the  same  kind  of 
food  and  unwholesome  food.  Sailors  on  long  voyages  are  likely  to  get  it. 

Symptoms. — The  gums  are  swollen  and  spongy,  the  teeth  become 
loosened,  the  mouth  becomes  foul  and  there  is  swelling  of  the  salivary 
glands. 

Treatment. — Give  good  and  varied  food  with  plenty  of  oranges  or  lemons 
and  green  vegetables.  Stay  in  the  sunshine  and  fresh  air.  Arsenic  and  iron 
are  given  as  medicines.  Lime  juice  and  pepsin  are  good  for  the  indigestion. 
For  the  mouth  use  chlorate  of  potash  and  myrrh  as  given  in  treating  stoma- 
titis. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Lemon  Juice,  Etc. — An  old  sailor  says  that  sweetened  lemon  juice 
taken  freely  will  cure  the  worst  case  of  scurvy.  Lemon  syrup  and  syrup  of 
citric  acid  are  also  good.  Take  freely  of  a decoction  made  from  sarsaparilla 
and  s??ssafras  with  lemon  juice  added.  To  3 quarts  of  water  add  2 ounces  each 
of  field  daisies  and  dandelion  roots.  Boil  to  a quart  and  take  a teacupful  every 
night  and  morning. 

2.  Sage  Tea  and  Alum. — For  the  gums  apply  strong  sage  tea  with  a 
little  alum  in  it 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND 
INTESTINES. 

Including  All  Abdominal  Diseases. 


INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  STOMACH. 

Acute  Gastritis — Acute  Gastric  Catarrh. 

Causes. — Cold  and  the  eating  of  too  many  sweets  are  the  causes  in  chil- 
dren. In  older  persons  the  cause  is  too  much  indigestible  food  or  overloading 
the  stomach.  Drinking  ice  water  or  other  cold  drinks  when  perspiring  is 
another  cause  and  it  may  be  produced  by  poisons. 

Symptoms. — There  is  discomfort  in  the  stomach  and  the  fever  is  between 
100  and  102  degrees.  The  bowels  may  be  constipated  or  they  may  be  a little 
loose.  A thin  white  fur  dotted  by  many  tiny  red  spots  covers  the  tongue. 
There  is  some  pain  and  tenderness  upon  pressure  around  the  stomach.  Sick- 
ness at  the  stomach  and  vomiting  may  occur. 

TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Give  % grain  of  calomel  every  Yo  hour  for  8 
doses  and  follow  in  5 hours  whh  a seidlitz  powder.  After  this  give  5 grains 
each  of  subnitrate  of  bismuth  and  oxalate  of  cerium.  Give  this  every  hour 
for  5 or  6 doses.  For  a child  give  2 grains  of  the  bismuth  and  1 grain  of  the 
oxalate  of  cerium. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — At  the  first  when  there  is  fever  give  the 
second  dilution  of  Aconite.  Put  10  or  15  drons  into  half  a glass  of  water  and 
take  2 teaspoonfuls  every  hour  to  3 hours.  For  the  indigestion  take  the  third 
trituration  of  Nux  Vomica.  Take  1 tablet  everv  hour.  If  there  is  much 
vomiting  and  thirst  give  the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum.  Take  1 tablet 
every  hour  or  two.  When  the  tonsnie  is  coated,  thick,  yellow  and  swollen 
you  can  give  Mercurius  Vivus,  third  trituration.  Give  one  tablet  every 
three  hours.  This  may  be  alternated  with  the  Arsenicum. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — In  acute  gastritis  the  feeding  is  of  importance.  It 
is  best  to  go  as  long  as  possible  without  eating  a thing.  The  stomach  is  too 
sore  to  digest  food.  Soups  and  broths  which  are  thin  and  not  too  rich,  and 
diluted  with  milk  are  good.  Plenty  of  hot  water  is  generally  good,  also,  and 
a mustard  plaster  over  the  rcm'on  of  the  stomach  helps. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES. — See  Indigestion,  Dyspepsia,  and  Stom- 
ach and  Bowel  Difhculties. 

INDIGESTION  AND  DYSPEPSIA. 

Chronic  Gastritis — Chronic  Catarrh  of  the  Stomach. 

Symptoms. — There  is  loss  of  annetite.  an  impaired  sense  of  taste,  nausea 
and  perhaps  vomiting  in  the  morning.  The  food  mav  he  vomited  un  or  the 
vomited  material  mav  be  partlv  digested.  There  is  belching  of  gas  and  the 
tongue  is  coated.  The  bowels  are  usually  constipated  and  the  digestion  is 
slow  and  impaired. 


143 


144 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


TREATMENT. — Attention  must  be  paid  to  the  diet  both  as  to  food  and 
drinks.  Washing  out  the  stomach  is  good.  For  the  loss  of  appetite  various 
simple  bitters  may  be  given. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Cinchona,  quassia  and  cardamon  may  be  given. 
Once  or  twice  a day  with  the  meals  you  may  give  I/2  dram  of  compound  tinc- 
ture of  cardamon. 

Five  drops  of  dilute  hydrochloric  acid  combined  with  essence  of  pepsin 
may  be  given  with  each  meal. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Third  trituration  of  Nux  Vomica,  the  third 
trituration  of  Pulsatilla,  the  third  trituration  of  Carbo.  Veg.,  the  twelfth  trit- 
uration of  Lycopodium  and  the  second  dilution  of  Bryonia.  (For  doses  see 
“ Homeopathic  Medicines  ” in  Nursing  Department.) 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Eat  often  but  small  meals  of  easily  digested  foods. 
As  a rule  grease  of  every  kind  must  be  forbidden.  Eat  no  fried  foods.  Eat 
slowly,  chew  the  food  well  and  do  not  eat  too  much.  If  there  are  water 
brashes  and  much  gas,  then  starchy  foods  such  as  potatoes  and  the  coarser 
vegetables  should  not  be  eaten.  Hot  bread,  cakes,  pancakes  and  pies  are  not 
good.  Keep  away  from  the  soda  fountain  and  do  not  eat  sweets.  Sweet 
milk  and  buttermilk  are  both  good  and  so  are  broths  and  gruels  if  not  too 
rich.  Relieve  the  constipation.  Taka-diastase  relieves  troubles  arising  from 
the  eating  of  too  much  starchy  food.  Take  a teaspoonful  of  the  elixir  of  taka- 
diastase  after  each  meal. 

In  indigestion  what  you  eat  is  of  prime  importance.  You  cannot  get  rid 
of  indigestion  if.  you  keep  putting  into  the  stomach  the  food  or  the  drink  that 
causes  it.  Whatever  food  disagrees  with  you,  stop  eating.  Pies  are  generally 
harmful  as  well  as  most  cakes.  Milk  disagrees  with  some  people.  Skimmed 
milk  and  buttermilk  are  good  for  some.  Eggs  should  be  either  soft  boiled 
or  cooked  for  an  hour  with  the  shells  on.  If  an  egg  is  boiled  for  an  hour  it 
becomes  tender  and  mealy.  Meats  are  hard  to  digest.  Potatoes  are  more 
healthful  when  baked  or  boiled  but  some  cannot  eat  potatoes  on  account  of 
their  containing  so  much  starch  which  forms  gas  on  the  stomach.  Eat  as  little 
as  possible  and  it  will  not  hurt  you  to  occasionally  fast  for  a day.  The  bowels 
must  move  freely  at  least  once  a day.  Many  cases  of  indigestion  are  helped 
by  free  movements  of  the  bowels.  Remember,  also,  that  it  sometimes  takes 
months  to  cure  indigestion  and  it  may  return  without  much  provocation.  It 
is  best  to  be  careful  of  the  diet  for  some  time  after  you  are  cured. 

Some  good  herb  remedies  for  the  stomach  may  be  had  by  making  teas 
of  the  following  herbs.  Put  from  2 to  4 ounces  of  the  herb  into  a pint  of 
water  and  steep  and  then  take  2 or  3 ounces  of  the  tea  3 or  4 times  a day. 
You  can  use  golden  seal,  sweet  flag,  gentian,  columbo,  comfrey,  poplar  bark, 
balmony,  bitter  root,  prickly  ash  bark,  wild  cherry  bark  or  ginger  root. 

I was  doctoring  a rich  jolly  farmer  for  dyspepsia.  He  told  me:  “As 
long  as  the  medicine  lasts  I feel  good  but  the  stomach  trouble  comes  back 
when  I stop  the  medicine.”  I asked  him,  “You  are  careful  what  you  eat?” 
He  replied,  “ Oh,  yes,  I am  very  careful.”  I was  then  very  busy  and  did  not 
inquire  particularly  as  to  what  he  ate  but  took  his  word  as  to  his  being 
careful.  One  day  in  the  spring  he  came  in  for  more  medicine.  We  sat  down 
and  had  a talk.  I said,  “You  are  still  careful  about  what  you  eat?”  “Oh 
yes,”  he  replied,  “ I am  careful  about  that.”  “ Well  tell  me  just  wliat  you 
eat,”  I said.  He  hesitated  a moment  and  then  said,  “ Why  I guess  I eat 
about  everything  that  is  put  on  the  table.”  I found  that  he  ate  sausage  and 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


145 


sausage  gravy,  pancakes,  pork  and  gravy,  fried  potatoes,  fried  eggs,  cakes 
and  mince  pies  as  well  as  drinking  two  or  three  cups  of  coffee  at  a meal. 
We  had  a good  laugh  for  this  was  certainly  “ being  careful.”  How  can 
anyone  who  eats  such  rich  foods  be  cured  of  dyspepsia  1 These  foods  were 
just  the  cause  of  his  stomach  trouble  and  to  cure  a disease  you  must  first 
remove  the  cause.  It  is  the  doctor’s  duty  to  tell  people  what  to  do  and  what 
not  to  do  if  they  would  prevent  or  cure  disease.  It  is  the  patient’s  duty  to 
follow  instructions  and  all  the  medicine  in  the  world  won’t  keep  us  well  if  we 
are  continually  disobeying  the  laws  of  nature. 

I remember,  when  I was  still  a boy  at  home  on  the  old  farm,  a man  who 
helped  us  butcher.  I remember  him  particularly  on  account  of  the  quanti- 
ties of  food  which  he  ate.  He  was  especially  fond  of  sausage  and  would  eat 
a piece  of  fresh  sausage  at  least  eighteen  inches  long  at  one  meal  and  other 
food  in  about  this  proportion.  In  a few  years  he  had  a genuine  case  of 
dyspepsia  and  wondered  how  it  was  possible  for  him  to  have  stomach 
trouble.  I,  myself,  in  those  days,  frequently  went  to  bed  after  eating  heartily 
of  rich  mince  pie.  Of  course  dyspepsia  followed.  I then  knew  no  better  but 
experience  is  an  effective  teacher. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.-^ 

(Also  see  Stomach  and  Bowel  Difficulties.) 

1.  Hard  Boiled  Eggs.— Dyspepsia  may  be  completely  cured  by  living 
for  several  weeks  upon  nothing  but  hard  boiled  eggs.  The  eggs  should  be 
boiled  not  less  than  30  minutes  and  an  hour  is  better.  If  boiled  this  long  they 
are  not  tough  but  are  soft  and  mealy.  At  first  the  patient  should  eat  the 
whites  only  and  later  the  yolks  may  also  be  eaten.  Eat  absolutely  nothing 
except  the  eggs  and  many  cases  will  be  cured  though  you  may  have  to  con- 
tinue the  treatment  for  several  weeks  or  a month  or  two. 

2.  Milk  and  Lime  Water.— Milk  and  lime  water  is  a very  effective 
remedy  used  by  physicians.  Put  a few  lumps  of  unslacked  lime  into  a pint 
can  and  add  water  until  it  looks  like  thin  cream.  Let  the  lime  settle  and 
use  the  clear  water  at  the  top,  being  careful  not  to  use  any  of  the  settlings. 
Six  or  eight  teaspoonfuls  of  lime  water  may  be  added  to  a glass  of  milk. 

3.  Soda  and  Ginger. — Mix  some  soda  and  ginger  in  the  proportion  of  1 
teaspoonful  of  soda  to  V2  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Keep  this  in  a tight  box 
and  take  V?  teaspoonful  in  a little  water  before  eating  if  digestion  is  bad. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Soda  is  good  for  the  gas  and  relieves  the  distress 
while  the  ginger  is  stimulating. 

4.  Chicken  Gizzard  Skin. — Remove  the  inner  lining  of  the  gizzard; 
thoroughly  clean  and  dry;  then  pulverize  and  mix  with  granulated  sugar  in 
the  proportion  of  1 teaspoonful  of  gizzard  skin  to  1/2  cup  of  sugar.  Dose — % 
teaspoonful  after  meals  or  when  needed.  “ This  remedy  was  recommended 
to  me  about  10  years  ago  and  I was  so  well  satisfied  with  it  that  I always 
keep  it  in  the  house  and  whenever  one  of  the  familv  notices  the  first  symp- 
toms of  indigestion  he  takes  a dose  or  two  as  needed.” 

Remark. — This  remedy  comes  from  the  family  of  one  of  the  professors 
at  Albion,  Mich.  The  pepsin  is  the  curative  agent  in  the  chicken  gizzard. 

5.  Hot  Water, — A lady  writes  that  after  suffering  for  vears  she  was 
cured  of  indigestion  by  leaving  off  all  other  treatments  and  drinking  a cup- 
ful of  hot  water  immediately  before  retiring  at  night  and  upon  rising  in  the 
morning. 


146 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PIOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Physician’s  Remark. — The  water  aids  in  the  cure  of  dyspepsia  by  wash- 
ing out  the  stomach. 

6.  Pepsin. — Take  pepsin  and  leave  off  coffee,  tea,  tobacco  and  whiskey. 

7.  Rhubarb,  Baking  Soda,  Etc. — Take  powdered  turkey  rhubarb,  2 
drams;  baking  soda,  48  grains;  simple  syrup,  1 ounce;  and  mint  water,  % 
pint.  The  dose  is  a tablespoonful  three  times  a day  before  meals. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  soda  is  good  for  the  gas  on  the  stomach  and 
the  rhubarb  is  laxative. 

GASTRIC  ULCER. 

In  the  milder  form  this  may  exist  for  years  without  its  presence  being 
suspected. 

Symptoms. — There  is  discomfort  and  pain  after  eating  with  constant 
gnav/ing  when  the  stomach  is  empty.  It  is  sometimes  relieved  by  food  and 
afterward  the  pain  may  increase.  The  pain  radiates  back  to  the  shoulder 
blade  and  the  spine.  The  stomach  is  sometimes  very  sore.  Constipation  is 
usually  marked  and  the  urine  scanty.  In  bad  cases  there  is  hemorrhage  or 
bleeding  from  the  stomach. 

TREATMENT. — Restrict  the  diet.  Milk  which  has  been  predigested 
with  peptonizing  powder  is  good.  The  diet  must  be  watched  carefully  for  a 
long  time. 

When  there  is  too  much  acidity  mix  an  ounce  each  of  baking  soda, 
magnesia  ponderosae  and  calcii  carbonatii  and  10  drops  of  ol.  menth  piperita. 
Take  a large  teaspoonful  in  half  a glass  of  water  when  needed. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Third  trituration  of  Arsenicum,  third  tritura- 
tion of  Kali.  Bich.  and  Nitrate  of  Silver. 

CANCER  OF  THE  STOMACH. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  common  forms  of  malignant  growth.  It  is  most 
often  situated  at  the  lower  (pyloric)  end  of  the  stomach. 

Symptoms. — Pallor  is  well  marked  and  there  is  loss  of  weight  and  strength. 
Stomach  distress,  dyspepsia,  sickness  at  the  stomach,  vomiting,  gnawing  pain, 
and  a pallid  hue,  when  the  patient  is  over  40  years  of  age,  are  symptoms. 
Other  symptoms  such  as  a lump  in  the  stomach  and  tenderness,  soreness, 
and  pain  should  make  one  suspicious  of  a cancer  in  the  stomach.  Vomiting 
of  blood  looking  like  coffee  grounds  is  another  symptom.  When  a test  meal 
is  given  and  the  contents  of  the  stomach  analyzed  there  is  found  to  be  almost 
or  a total  absence  of  hydrochloric  acid  and  there  is  an  abnormal  amount  of 
lactic  acid.  The  duration  is  variable,  sometimes  lasting  for  months  and 
longer. 

Treatment. — Relieve  the  pain.  If  an  operation  is  performed  it  should  be 
done  early.  Operations  sometimes  prolong  life  comfortably  for  years. 

NEURALGIA  OF  THE  STOMACH. 

Gastralgia. 

Symptoms. — The  paroxysm  of  pain  is  very  violent  and  is  felt  not  only  in 
the  region  of  the  stomach  but  also  along  the  edges  of  the  ribs. 
TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — It  can  be  relieved  with  1 dram  of  spirits  of 
chloroform  mixed  with  1 dram  of  compound  spirits  of  lavender.  From  Vi 
to  1 grain  of  menthol  is  also  good. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


147 


Homeopathic  Treatment. — Take  the  third  trituration  of  Atropine.  Take 
2 tablets  every  15  minutes  for  3 doses.  If  the  pain  is  caused  by  gas  give  the 
third  trituration  of  Carbo.  Veg.  The  twelfth  trituration  of  Lycopodium  is 
also  good. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Fomentations  of  Tansy,  Boneset  and  Hops — Mustard  Poultice — Es- 
sence of  Ginger. — Empty  the  bowels  with  an  injection  of  warm  water.  Place 
warm  fomentations  of  tansy,  boneset  and  hops  over  the  stomach  and  follow 
with  a mustard  poultice.  Give  essence  of  ginger  internally. 

2.  Rhubarb  and  Baking  Soda. — Take  4 ounces  of  tincture  of  rhubarb 
and  2 drams  of  common  baking  soda;  mix,  and  give  from  2 teaspoonfuls  to 
a tablespoonful  as  often  as  necessary.  This  mixture  is  improved  by  adding  a 
few  drops  of  tincture  of  cayenne. 

3.  Brandy,  Peppermint  and  Ginger. — If  caused  by  gas  give  hot  brandy  or 
strong  peppermint  or  ginger  water. 

BLEEDING  FROM  STOMACH. 

Hemorrhage. 

(See  “ Accidents  and  Emergencies.”)  Salt  is  good. 

VOMITING. 

Nausea — Sickness  at  Stomach. 

This  is  only  a symptom  of  disease. 

Causes. — Vomiting  is  due  to  a variety  of  causes.  It  may  be  caused  by 
improper  food.  If  it  is  not  caused  by  some  acute  disease  it  may  be  due  to 
dvspepsia,  torpid  liver  or  constipation.  Pregnancy  is  also  a cause. 
TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Make  some  pills  of  oxalate  of  cerium,  and  give 
one  of  these  every  4 or  5 hours.  This  is  good  for  vomiting  during  pregnancy. 
Arsenic  is  good  to  check  vomiting  when  it  is  given  in  very  small  doses. 
One-tenth  of  a drop  of  ipecac  is  very  good  when  there  is  much  nausea  or 
sickness  of  the  stomach  with  the  vomiting.  Or,  you  can  use  the  wine  of 
ipecac  in  1-drop  doses  every  15  minutes  until  relieved.  In  measuring  the  ipecac 
to  get  1/10  of  a drop  you  can  put  one  drop  into  ten  teaspoonfuls  of  water  and 
then  give  one  teaspoonful  of  the  liquid  and  thus  you  get  just  1/10  of  a drop 
at  a dose. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — When  there  is  a burning,  watery  vomiting  give 
the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum.  Give  1 tablet  every  15  minutes  or  half 
hour  until  the  vomiting  is  checked. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.- 

1 Peppermint,  Ginger,  Etc. — A tea  made  of  peppermint,  spearmint  or 
ginger  will  generally  relieve  vomiting.  Brandy  or  tincture  of  ginger  are 
other  remedies  that  are  much  used. 

2.  Mustard  or  Spice  Poultice. — A mustard  or  a spice  poultice  applied 
to  the  stomach  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  this  trouble. 

3.  Turpentine  and  Cayenne. — Moisten  flannels  with  oil  of  turpentine 
and  apply  to  the  stomach  ; or,  a decoction  made  by  adding  cayenne  pepper  to 
spirits  v/dl  do  in  place  of  the  turpentine. 

4.  Creosote. — Creosote  may  be  given  in  one-drop  doses  to  relieve 
vomiting. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Wood  soot  taken  from  the  chimney  contains  creo- 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL'BOOK. 


14  S 

sote  so  you  can  make  a tea  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  a little  wood  soot 
and  let  the  patient  drink  of  it  freely  This  will  be  found  to  be  a good  remedy. 

5.  Ginger  and  Cloves. — Make  a strong  tea  of  cloves  or  of  ginger  and 
cloves  and  give  the  patient  a little  every  5 or  10  minutes. 

6.  Parched  Corn. — One  of  the  very  best  remedies  for  nausea  or  vomit- 
ing is  a tea  made  of  parched  corn. 

7.  Oatmeal. — Make  some  oatmeal  into  a cake  with  water  and  brown 
it  like  coffee.  Make  a tea  of  this  and  when  drank  it  will  check  vomiting. 

8.  Milk  and  Egg. — To  a pint  each  of  fresh  milk  and  water,  which  are 
sweetened  to  taste,  add  an  egg  which  has  been  beaten  for  20  minutes.  Boil 
and  drink  of  this  when  it  is  cold.  Do  not  use  it  should  it  happen  to  curdle. 

9.  Baking  Soda. — “ An  excellent  remedy  for  sickness  at  the  stomach,” 
writes  an  Illinois  woman,  “ is  to  drink  half  a teaspoonful  of  baking  soda 
dissolved  in  half  a glassful  of  hot  water.” 

10.  Chickweed. — Steep  some  chickweed  and  drink  of  it  to  stop  vomiting. 

11.  Lemon  Juice  and  Salt. — Give  the  juice  of  a lemon  and  a little  salt  in 
hot  water.  One  teaspoonful  is  a dose. 

12.  Corn. — Shell  some  yellow  field  corn  and  brown  it  in  a frying  pan 
over  the  coals  until  it  is  nearly  black,  then  pour  on  hot  water  and,  after 
standing  awhile,  give  the  water  in  small  quantities. 

Remarks. — This  is  nearly  the  Same  as  number  six  above  but  it  is  so  good 
that  it  will  bear  repeating. 

13.  Peach  Leaves. — Put  a handful  of  peach  leaves  into  a quart  of  cold 
water  and  let  it  stand  for  24  hours,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  take  a tea- 
spoonful of  this  peach  water  about  4 times  a day  to  prevent  vomiting. 

14.  Fresh  Air,  Etc. — A lady  living  at  Grant,  Ontario  says : “ Go  out  of 
doors  and  get  fresh  air.  If  this  fails  to  help,  wash  the  hands  up  to  the  elbows 
and  the  face  in  ice  cold  water.  I saved  one  of  my  children  that  way  when 
doctors  could  not  help  her  She  was  then  two  years  old.” 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SEASICKNESS. 

1.  Chloroform  and  Bromide  of  Sodium. — Take  10  or  12  drops  of  chloro- 
form and  three  times  a day  take  10  grains  of  bromide  of  sodium. 

2.  Diet,  Etc. — A person  affected  with  seasickness  should  lie  down  in  the 
open  air  if  possible.  Raw  salt  oysters  are  generally  easily  digested  and  lemons 
are  generally  relished  by  the  patient.  The  wearing  of  a tight  girdle  to  com- 
press the  stomach  is  advised  by  sailors. 

DIARRHEA  AND  SUMMER  COMPLAINTS. 

Symptoms. — These  are  too  well  known  to  need  description. 

Treatment. — The  treatment  depends  upon  the  cause.  If  the  diarrhea  is 
due  to  bad  food  give  from  V2  to  1 ounce  of  castor  oil  and  with  it  a dessert 
spoonful  of  parggoric  to  prevent  griping.  This  is  for  an  adult.  Or,  give  some 
spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb.  Give  no  foods  until  the  diarrhea  is  checked  and  then 
give  predigested  milk,  arrowroot  and  broths. 

In  diarrhea  or  dysentery  in  either  children  or  adults  I first  give  either 
castor  oil  or  aromatic  or  spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb.  This  is  how  I first  came 
to  use  the  spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb.  Over  twenty  years  ago  I was  attending 
a bright  young  man  who  had  a severe  attack  of  dysentery  that  he  had  taken 
while  going  from  Detroit  to  Chicago  on  the  boat.  He  was  in  a serious  con- 
dition. I could  check  the  dysentery  but  in  a few  hours  it  would  return  in 
full  force.  His  mother  suggested  the  rhubarb  to  me.  I consented  to  its  use 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


149 


and  then  watched  the  result.  The  patient  passed  a ^reat  amount  of  a thick 
liver-colored,  jelly-like  mass  and  improvement  followed.  In  a few  days  I 
advised  another  dose.  Again  he  passed  the  same  kind  of  material  and  he 
was  soon  well.  In  diarrhea  and  dysentery  the  bowels  often  have  irritating 
material  in  them  that  must  be  removed  before  an  attempt  is  made  to  check 
the  trouble.  Either  castor  oil  or  rhubarb  will  remove  this  material  and  a 
cure  is  begun.  Serious  results  sometimes  follow  the  too  sudden  checking  of 
these  bowel  troubles.  It  is  generally  a good  thing  to  first  move  the  bowels. 
Do  you  not  remember  how  mother  used  to  give  us  castor  oil  and  laudanum  or 
rhubarb  alone?  We  doctors  own  much  to  the  mothers  of  the  land  for  the 
practical  home  remedies  we  have  secured  from  them.  Though  in  many  cases 
the  services  of  the  physician  are  absolutely  necessary  yet,  on  the  other  hand, 
the  practical  physician  will  not  fail  to  adopt  any  good  home  remedy  no  matter 
from  what  source  it  may  come. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Hot  Milk. — Drink  freely  of  hot  milk.  The  milk  should  not  be  boiled 
but  should  be  heated  as  hot  as  it  can  be  drank. 

2.  Onion  Poultices  and  Turpentine. — Apply  an  onion  poultice  to  the 
bowels  or  a cloth  wrung  out  of  turpentine. 

3.  White  Oak  Bark,  Blackberry  Root,  Etc. — Take  a handful  each  of 
white  oak  bark  and  blackberry  root  and  ^2  ounce  each  of  allspice,  cloves  and 
cinnamon.  Make  a decoction,  sweeten  with  rock  candy  or  loaf  sugar  and 
give  a tablespoonful  3 times  a day. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Tlfese  are  all  astringents  and  thus  check  the 
diarrhea. 

4 Oatmeal  Tea,  Etc. — Mix  some  oatmeal  with  water,  bake  or  brown 
it  and  then  powder  it  and  make  a tea.  If  there  is  vomiting  or  sickness  at  the 
stomach  apply  a mustard  plaster  to  the  stomach.  If  there  is  griping  the 
following  injection  should  be  given.  Mix  piut  of  molasses,  1 gill  of  castor 
oil,  20  drops  of  laudanum  and  Vj  pint  of  warm  water.  This  is  for  an  adult. 

5.  Rice. — Take  half  a pound  of  rice  and  pound  it  till  fine.  Boil  it  and 
eat  slowly.  This  is  good  as  a food  in  some  kinds  of  diarrhea. 

6.  Bacon  and  Onions. — Slice  some  smoked  fat  bacon  and  fry  it  until 
you  have  half  a pint  of  grease.  While  it  is  frying  slice  several  large  onions 
into  the  grease  and  when  it  is  done  pour  off  the  mixture.  The  dose  is  a tea- 
spoonful once  a day.  This  remedy  has  cured  many  of  the  very  worst  cases  of 
chronic  diarrhea  and  should  be  tried. 

7.  Rhubarb. — Burn  some  pulverized  rhubarb  to  black  ashes  in  an  iron 
dish,  then  powder  it  and  give  half  a teaspoonful  three  times  a day  in  a 
little  water.  * 

Physician’s  Remark. — Rhubarb  will  discharge  all  irritating  material  and 
burning  it  makes  it  somewhat  antiseptic. 

8.  Gum  Arabic. — Eating  gum  arabic  has  cured  many  cases  of  chronic 
diarrhea.  Drinking  freely  of  the  mucilage  of  gum  arabic  is  also  good. 

9 Logwood. — An  excellent  remedy  for  tuberculous  diarrhea  is  a decoc- 
tion of  logwood.  The  dose  is  half  a teacupful  2 or  3 times  a day. 

10.  Milk  and  Lime  Water,  Brandy,  Etc. — In  treating  chronic  diarrhea 
take  little  nourishment  except  milk  and  lime  water  and  give  a teaspoonful  of 
brandy  in  a little  sweetened  water  several  times  a day. 

11.  Blackberry  Cordial. — From  a teaspoonful  to  a wineglassful  of  black- 
berry cordial  at  a dose  is  excellent  for  diarrhea.  The  following  is  a good 


150 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


recipe  for  the  cordial.  To  2 quarts  of  blackberry  juice  and  a pound  of  white 
sugar  add  half  an  ounce  each  of  nutmeg,  pulverized  cinnamon  and  pulverized 
cloves.  Boil  together  a short  time  and  when  cold  add  1 pint  of  brandy. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  slightly  astringent.  Before  using  the  cor- 
dial the  bowels  should  first  be  made  to  move  freely  with  castor  oil. 

12.  Corn  Meal  or  Parched  Corn. — Brown  some  corn  meal  on  the  stove, 
then  boil  it  in  water  like  coffee  and  let  the  patient  drink  a teacupful  2 or  3 
times  a day.  Parched  corn  ground  and  a tea  made  in  the  same  way  will  do 
as  well.  This  is  one  of  the  finest  things  that  can  be  used  for  summer  com- 
plaints. 

13.  Baking  Soda. — A strong  solution  of  common  baking  soda  is  an  ex- 
cellent remedy  for  diarrhea. 

14.  Mutton  Tallow. — Melted  sheep’s  tallow  is  fine  for  this  trouble.  Give 
2 tablespoonfuls  every  2 hours. 

15.  Raspberry  and  Dewberry  Roots. — Diarrhea  and  summer  complaints 
may  often  be  checked  by  drinking  tea  made  of  raspberry  or  dewberry  leaves 
or  roots. 

16.  Opium,  Ginger,  Peppermint,  Etc. — Take  a 4-ounce  vial  and  put  into 
it  2 drams  of  denarcotized  opium  tincture  (laudanum  will  do),  1 ounce  of 
tincture  of  ginger  and  ounce  of. oil  of  peppermint  and  then  fill  the  vial  up 
with  simple  syrup.  For  adults  the  dose  is  1 teaspoonful  3 times  a day.  This 
is  great. 

17.  Rhubarb,  Camphor,  Peppermint,  Etc. — Take  equal  parts  of  tinc- 
ture of  opium,  tincture  of  rhubarb,  capsicum,  spirits  of  camphor  and  essence 
of  peppermint  and  add  a little  chloroform.  Take  from  15  to  20  drops  at  a dose. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  recipe  comes  from  Cameron,  Texas.  The 
lady  sending  it  says,  “ We  have  used  it  with  the  best  success.  The  facts  are 
it  can’t  be  beat.”  This  is  for  adults  only  as  it  is  dangerous  to  give  opium 
to  children  even  in  small  quantities. 

18.  Flour  and  Camphor. — Stir  together  1 tablespoonful  of  flour  and  i/2 
teaspoonful  of  camphor  diluted  with  water.  The  dose  is  1 tablespoonful  3 
times  a day  and  oftener  if  necessary. 

Remarks. — A lady  living  in  Centerburg,  Ohio,  says  she  has  used  this 
for  25  years  and  that  it  is  a never  failing  remedy. 

19  Blackberry  Root  Syrup. — Take  Vo  pound  of  the  small  roots  of  the 
blackberry,  ^2  ounce  each  of  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  I/2  pound  of  white 
sugar,  1/2  piiit  whiskey  and  2 quarts  of  water.  Boil  the  other  ingredients 

down  to  a pint  and  add  the  spirits  when  cold.  Dose — 1 or  2 teaspoonfuls 
according  to  age  every  2 hours. 

Remarks. — “ This  is  an  old  and  tried  remedy  for  summer  complaints,” 
writes  one  mother. 

20.  “ Sun  Cholera  Cure.” — The  celebrated  “ Sun  Cholera  Cure  ” consists 

of  equal  parts  of  tincture  of  opium,  tincture  of  capsicum  (red  pepper),  rhubarb, 
camphor  and  peppermint.  Take  from  15  to  20  drops  in  4 tablespoonfuls  of 
water  every  half  hour  until  relieved.  After  the  patient  is  relieved  it  should 
be  used  twice  only  every  24  hours.  This  is  for  adults. 

COLIC. 

(Also  see  Baby  Department.) 

For  Children. — Give  V2  grain  of  asafetida.  Or,  you  can  make  a decoc- 
tion of  chamomile  by  putting  1 or  2 ounces  of  the  plant  into  a pint  of  water 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES.  151 

and  boiling  it  down.  Give  in  I/2  teaspoonful  doses.  Peppermint  water  or 
peppermint  oil  are  also  good.  The  dose  of  peppermint  water  is  from  % to 
1 teaspooriful  and  the  dose  of  the  peppermint  oil  is  1 drop. 

For  Adults. — Give  1 drop  of  tincture  of  colocynth  in  a little  water  every 
half  hour  until  relieved.  This  is  especially  good  where  the  patient  is  bent 
double  with  the  colic. 

Some  years  ago.  at  three  o’clock  on  a Sunday  morning,  I was  called 
eight  miles  into  the  country  to  see  a bad  case  of  peritonitis,  so-called.  The 
patient  had  been  sick  almost  a week  and  two  doctors  thought  the  nine  year 
old  boy  could  not  live.  I took  the  case  and  after  two  weeks  of  hard  work  by 
all  concerned  the  boy  got  well.  Two  weeks,  to  a day,  after  I had  dismissed 
the  case  as  cured,  the  father  awoke  me  at  midnight  and  told  me  the  boy  was 
again  sick.  I was  worried  for  I was  afraid  it  was  another  attack  of  periton- 
itis. I reached  the  home  in  about  an  hour  and  found  him  suffering  with  terri- 
ble pains  at  intervals  of  a few  minutes  but  between  the  intervals  he  was  free 
from  pain  and  seemingly  well.  He  had  no  fever  and  from  the  symptoms  I 
decided  he  was  suffering  with  neuralgia  or  colic  in  the  stomach  and  bowels 
and,  notwithstanding  they  told  me  that  the  boy  had  eaten  nothing  to  bring 
on  this  attack,  I gave  him  some  quieting  medicine  and  advised  a large  dose 
of  castor  oil  and  then  went  home  disgusted  at  their  carelessness  in  feeding, 
for  I felt  sure  this  was  the  cause  of  the  trouble.  When  I returned  next 
day  they  showed  me  the  proceeds  of  the  castor  oil — a ball  as  big  as  a walnut. 
In  the  center  of  this  ball  was  a raisin  and  around  it  was  bread,  thus  forming 
a hard  mass  that  caused  the  colic.  Then  the  family  remembered  that  the 
boy  had  eaten  “ mince  pie  ” the  previous  day  and  that  was  the  cause  of  this 
case  of  “ Raisin  and  Bread  Colic.” 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Mustard  or  Salt. — For  flatulent  or  common  wind  colic  give,  as  an 
emetic,  either  a teaspoonful  of  mustard  or  salt  to  a teacupful  of  water.  This 
may  be  repeated  in  10  or  12  minutes  if  necessary. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  for  colic  caused  by  food  in  the  stomach. 

2.  Ginger. — Hot  water  and  ginger  are  especially  good  for  common  or 
wind  colic. 

3.  Peppermint  or  Spearmint. — Give  a little  essence  of  peppermint  or 
spearmint  in  hot  water  for  colic.  This  is  particularly  good  where  the  patient 
is  sick  at  the  stomach. 

Physician’s  Remark. — In  its  action  either  of  these  is  an  anodyne,  anaes- 
thetic and  antiseptic. 

4.  Mustard  Plaster,  Salt  and  Molasses,  Castor  Oil,  Etc. — Put  a mustard 
plaster  over  the  pain  and  if  the  bowels  are  constipated  give  an  injection  of 
salt  and  molasses,  castor  oil,  or  soap  and  warm  water. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  injection  removes  the  cause  by  taking  the  irri- 
tating matter  from  the  bowels.  The  mustard  causes  counter-irritation. 

5.  Herb  Tea. — For  bilious  colic  give  at  one  injection  a strong  decoction 
made  of  the  fol’owing  herbs.  Take  1 ounce  of  senna,  1 ounce  of  thoroughwort, 
10  grains  of  Cayenne,  Lo  dram  of  lobelia  and  1 pint  of  boiling  water.  To  this 
decoction  s’jould  be  added  % pint  of  molasses  and  a teaspoonful  of  epsom 
salts. 

6.  Turpentine,  Etc. — Another  remedy  for  bilious  colic  is  to  give  an  in- 
jection of  1 ounce  each  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  wine  of  ipecac  and  castor  oil 
and  V2  pint  each  of  molasses  and  warm  water. 


152 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Physician’s  Remark. — This  moves  the  bowels  and  the  turpentine  rids 
them  of  the  ^as. 

7.  Vinegar. — Vinegar  weakened  with  water  and  taken  as  a drink  is 
a good  remedy  for  many  cases  of  colic. 

8.  Essence  of  Ginger. — Essence  of  Jamaica  ginger  is  excellent  for  pains 
in  the  stomach  and  ;s  a fine  tome  for  indigestion.  It  gently  stimulates  the 
stomach  and  warms  the  whole  system.  The  dose  for  an  adult  is  a teaspoon- 
ful in  a wineglassLil  of  sweetened  water.  For  a child  under  12  years  give 
half  a teaspoonful.  It  may  also  be  used  externally. 

9.  Mustard  Poultice,  Castor  Oil,  Peppermint  and  Ginger. — For  wind 
colic  bathe  the  feet  and  legs  in  hot  water  and  apply  hot  salt  or  mustard  poul- 
tices over  the  stomach  and  bowels.  Open  the  bowels  with  castor  oil  and 
drink  freely  of  peppermint  or  ginger  tea. 

10.  Laudanum,  Camphor  and  Peppermint. — For  severe  cases  of  flatulent 
or  wind  colic  in  adults  give  in  teaspoonful  doses  a mixture  of  equal  parts  of 
laudanum,  tincture  of  camphor  and  essence  of  peppermint.  Give  every  three 
hours  for  four  doses  if  necessary. 

11.  Hot  Fomentations. — Apply  warm  fomentations  of  boneset,  worm- 
wood, stramonium  leaves  or  hops  over  the  stomach  and  bowels  for  colic. 

12.  Peppermint,  Sugar,  Etc. — Either  peppermint  or  spearmint  tea  with 
a little  saleratus  and  sugar  added  will  generally  give  relief. 

13.  Salt  and  Water. — A mother  writes  that  injections  of  salt  and  water 
will  almost  always  give  instant  relief  from  colic. 

14.  Paregoric.— For  wind  colic  give  a few  drops  of  paregoric  in  one- 
third  of  a teaspoonful  of  warm  water.  This  is  the  dose  for  a child. 

15.  Rhubarb,  Anise,  Etc. — Take  % ounce  of  tincture  of  rhubarb,  % ounce 
of  anise,  ounce  of  laudanum,  14  ounce  of  magnesia,  1 quart  of  boiling  water 
and  1 cupful  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  in  the  boiling  water,  let  it 
get  cold  and  then  add  the  other  ingredients.  Keep  covered  tightly  and  in  a 
cool  place.  The  dose  is  % teaspoonful  every  half  hour  and  this  dose  may 
be  increased  as  the  child  grows  older. 

Physician’s  Remarks.— I never  like  to  give  laudanum  to  a child  for  it 
is  sometimes  dangerous  to  children  even  in  small  quantities.  It  may  be 
taken  in  proper  doses  by  grown  people  but  for  children  I would  prefer  some 
other  remedy. 

16.  Oil  of  Peppermint. — Give  two  drops  of  oil  of  peppermint  in  a cup 
of  hot  water  without  sugar. 

17.  Glycerine. — Give  teaspoonful  of  glycerine.  This  is  very  good. 

18.  Baking  Soda.— For  wind  colic  caused  by  gas  in  the  stomach  give 
half  a teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  in  half  a glass  of  water. 

19.  V/arm  Water. — Give  babies  plenty  of  warm  water  that  has  been 
boiled  and  always  use  a bottle  with  a nipple. 

20.  Caraway  Seed.— Put  1 teaspoonful  of  caraway  seeds  into  half  a cup 
of  hot  water  and  give  a teaspoonful  every  half  hour.  There  is  nothing  better. 
A lady  writes  from  Chicago  saying,  ‘‘  I am  a mother  of  six  children  and  have 
always  found  this  an  excellent  remedy  for  colic.” 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Caraway  contains  a volatile  oil  which  is  good  as 
a cure  for  colic.  Here  is  a combination  you  will  find  excellent  lor  flatulence 
or  colic.  To  2 ounces  of  caraway  tea  add  1 ounce  of  penpermin’-  water,  1 
dram  of  baking  soda  and  2 ounces  of  syrup  of  rhubarb.  The  dose  is  from  1 
to  2 teaspoonfuls  every  3 or  4 hours.  Each  of  these  ingredients  is  good  when 
used  alone  and  all  of  them  together  form  an  excellent  combination  for  colic. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


153 


21.  Castor  Oil  and  Paregoric. — Half  a teaspoonful  each  of  castor  oil  and 
paregoric,  mixed,  will  be  found  good.  This  is  for  an  adult. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Castor  oil  rids  the  bowels  of  irritating  material 
and  paregoric  relieves  the  pain. 

22.  Ginger  Tea,  Etc. — Put  hot  flannel  cloths  on  the  stomach  and  a bottle 
of  hot  water  to  the  feet  and  give  either  ginger  or  anise  tea. 

23.  Peppermint  and  Castor  Oil. — If  there  is  constipation  with  the  colic 
give  an  injection  of  an  ounce  of  warm  peppermint  tea  with  a teaspoonful  of 
castor  oil  in  it.  Spearmint  tea  will  do  in  place  of  peppermint. 

24.  Salt  Water. — Put  a teaspoonful  of  salt  into  a pint  of  water  and  have 
the  patient  drink  it  and  then  go  to  bed.  This  is  a very  quick  and  effective 
remedy. 

25.  Bread. — Break  a hot  loaf  of  bread  in  two  pieces  and  place  the  halves 
opposite  each  other ; one  upon  the  bowels  and  one  upon  the  back.  “ This 
treatment  will  relieve  any  kind  of  colic,”  writes  a mother  from  Texas. 

26.  Soot  Tea. — One  mother  writes  that  she  has  never  found  anything  to 
cure  the  colic  so  quickly  as  soot  tea.  Pour  hot  water  upon  a little  soot  from 
the  chimney  and  have  the  child  drink  it.  It  seems  to  absorb  all  the  gas. 

27.  Calamus. — Give  from  20  grains  to  1 dram  of  calamus.  For  infants 
you  can  combine  it  with  calcined  magnesia. 

28.  Pills  for  Colic. — The  following  pills  are  good  for  flatulent  colic. 
Each  pill  should  contain  1 grain  each  of  dioscorein  and  asclepidin  and  2 
grains  of  ginger.  Instead  of  the  asclepidin  you  can  use  the  same  quantity 
of  unicorn  root  if  preferred.  Give  one  pill  ever}^  2 or  3 hours. 

29.  Chamomile. — For  colic  in  adults  use  oil  of  chamomile.  The  dose 
is  from  5 to  15  drops  on  sugar. 

30.  Wild  Yam. — In  ordinary  cases  of  colic  give  from  2 to  4 ounces  of  a 
decoction  of  wild  yam  root  every  half  hour  until  relieved.  In  bilious  colic 
the  dose  is  half  a pint  every  half  hour. 

31.  Catnip  Tea. — Warm  catnip  tea  is  one  of  the  old  fashioned  remedies 
our  grandmothers  used  to  give  the  children  for  colic  and  it  is  just  as  good 
today  as  it  was  then.  Put  an  ounce  of  the  dried  herb  into  a pint  of  boiling 
water,  cover  and  let  stand  for  an  hour.  Drink  of  it  freely. 

32.  Enema  for  Bilious  Colic. — Pour  a quart  of  boiling  water  over  4 
ounces  each  of  senna  and  boneset;  steep  for  10  minutes  with  moderate  heat; 
strain ; and  while  hot  add  4 ounces  of  molasses,  2 drams  of  powdered  bayberry 
bark  and  2 drams  each  of  common  salt,  powdered  lobelia  seed  and  powdered 
capsicum.  This  is  to  be  used  as  an  injection.  Give  half  this  quantity  at  a 
time  as  hot  as  possible  and  repeat  if  necessary  in  15  minutes.  A decoction 
of  wild  yam  may  be  drank  at  the  same  time. 

33.  Pink  Blows,  Etc. — To  2 ounces  each  of  common  pink  blows,  smell- 
age  root  and  pleurisy  root  add  a sufficient  quantity  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
down  to  a quart;  strain  and  add  a quart  of  proof  brandy  and  a pound  of  sugar. 
The  dose  for  an  infant  is  a teaspoonful  and  mav  be  repeated  if  necessary. 
This  is  good  for  colic,  fits  and  green  stools  in  children. 

DYSENTERY. 

This  disease  is  treated  under  Contagious  and  Infectious  Diseases. 

CONSTIPATION. 

Causes.  --People  of  a nervous  and  bilious  temperament  and  of  a dark  type 
are  much  troubled  with  constipation.  A sedentary  life  conduces  to  consti- 


154 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


pation.  A lazy  life  in  which  the  calls  of  nature  are  irregularly  attended  to 
or  are  habitually  neglected  leads  to  over  distention  of  the  rectum  or  paralysis 
of  it.  This  is  a common  cause  of  constipation. 

Another  cause  is  the  constant  use  of  concentrated  articles  of  food  such 
as  meats  in  which  little  residual  matter  is  left  to  stimulate  the  worm-like 
motion  of  the  bowels.  A very  coarse  diet  may  also  tend  toward  constipation 
because  there  is  so  much  residual  matter  left  that  it  stops  up  the  bowels  or 
causes  fecal  impaction. 

A change  of  drinking  water  or  water  from  a chalky  region  may  aid  in 
causing  constipation.  Other  causes  are  bodily  weakness  and  diseases  such  as 
neurasthenia,  hysteria,  acute  fevers  and  liver  disorders.  The  habitual  use 
of  purgatives  may  also  weaken  the  bowels  and  cause  constipation. 

The  local  causes  are:  (a)  Atony  or  weakness  of  the  muscles  of  the  ab- 
domen caused  by  fat  or  in  females  often  by  being  pregnant,  (b)  Atony  or 
weakness  of  the  large  bowel  from  chronic  inflammation,  (c)  Pressure  by 
tumors,  (d)  A narrowing  of  the  intestine  either  from  external  or  internal  con- 
striction or  pressure,  (e)  Tightness  of  the  sphincter  ani  or  muscle  of  the 
anus. 

TREATMENT.— 

Remove  the  causes  if  possible.  There  should  be  a regular  time  for 
the  movement  of  the  bowels  each  day.  This  will  help  a great  deal.  Habit  has 
much  to  do  with  constipation,  especially  when  one  is  not  born  with  it.  Make 
the  bowels  move  at  a certain  time  each  day  and  remain  at  stool  without 
straining  until  they  do.  Exercise  is  good  and  especially  such  exercises  as  act 
upon  the  muscles  of  the  abdomen.  Horseback  riding  and  gymnasium  work 
are  good.  Massaging  the  bowels  is  very  effective.  Special  attention,  though, 
to  the  calls  of  nature  should  be  esteemed  a duty  and  proper  time  and  heed 
must  always  be  given  to  the  complete  emptying  of  the  bowel.  Take  time 
and  have  a regular  hour  each  day.  Young  girls  should  be  specially  instructed 
for  they  are  very  likely  to  neglect  the  call  of  nature. 

Attention  to  the  diet  often  avails  much.  Foods  that  are  easily  digested 
but  leave  a moderate  amount  of  residual  matter  after  digestion  are  to  be 
recommended.  Such  foods  as  bread  made  from  unbolted  flour,  plenty  of 
vegetables  and  fruits,  butter  and  such  loosening  articles  as  figs,  honey  and 
molasses  and  a glass  of  cold  water  taken  regularly  at  bed  time  and  in  the 
morning  on  arising,  are  all  good.  Bread  should  be  well  baked.  The  old  style 
stone  mill  flour  is  the  best.  Graham  flour  and  corn  meal  made  in  different 
ways  are  both  good.  Eat  fruits  of  all  kinds  and  especially  apples.  Do  not 
drink  strong  tea  or  coffee  as  they  are  binding  as  are  also  meats  and  especially 
beef.  Avoid  rich  cakes  and  pies.  Eat  good  healthful  food  and  do  not  over  eat. 
Oatmeal  and  corn  and  wheat  flakes  are  of  great  benefit.  The  less  you  work 
or  exercise,  the  less  you  should  eat  and  especially  of  hearty  and  substantial 
foods.  Milk  is  constipating  for  some  people.  Eat  slowly  and  thoroughly 
chew  your  food  ; it  will  then  dieest  better  and  you  will  not  need  to  eat  so 
much.  Get  up  from  the  table  a little  hungry. 

As  before  stated,  you  ought  to  have  a regular  time  for  your  bowels  to 
move.  Go  to  the  closet  every  day  at  a certain  time  and  if  necessary  wait 
and  determine  that  you  will  have  a movement.  Habit  has  a great  deal  to  do 
with  constipation.  Do  not  strain  at  stool. 

If  the  anus  or  outlet  is  too  small  have  it  stretched  or  dilated  but  have 
this  done  gradually.  In  drug  stores  you  will  find  dilators  for  this  purpose  in 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


155 


sets  of  three  or  four.  These  are  not  only  good  for  constipation  but  also  for 
piles  and  dyspepsia  as  well  as  nervous  trouble. 

When  at  stool  do  not  sit  down  and  read  and  put  off  attending  to  the 
call  of  nature.  Make  attention  to  this  call  your  first  duty  after  breakfast. 

There  are  laxatives  and  cathartics  and  tablets  and  pills  of  many  kinds. 
Of  course  if  you  can’t  have  regular  passages  without  these  you  must  resort 
to  their  use.  It  is  better  to  take  “ physics  ” than  to  have  constipated  bowels 
with  all  the  troubles  that  go  with  constipation.  Sometimes,  eating  dandelion 
root  will  prove  beneficial.  Senna  tea,  in  from  1 to  5-ounce  doses,  is  also  good 
but  it  causes  griping.  Dandelion,  yellow  dock,  burdock,  culver’s  root  and 
wahoo,  made  into  a tea  and  drank  freely,  is  good.  You  can  also  use  this  com- 
bination in  the  fluid  extract  form.  These  fluid  extracts  can  be  bought  at 
any  drug  store  and  should  be  mixed  in  equal  parts.  The  dose  of  the  combi- 
nation is  from  % to  1 teaspoonful  from  2 to  4 times  a day  as  needed.  This 
will  be  found  very  good  and  it  is  not  especially  harmful. 

Aromatic  cascara,  fluid  extract  of  cascara  and  cascara  evacuans  are  all 
good  as  are  rochelle  and  epsom  salts.  Seidlitz  powders  and  Hunyadi  and 
other  waters  give  temporary  relief. 

Spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb  is  very  good  for  infants  and  children  in  from 
% to  1 teaspoonful  doses.  The  aromatic  syrup  of  rhubarb  is  very  good  where 
there  is  irritating  material  in  the  bowels  causing  diarrhea.  This  is  good  for 
both  infants  and  adults. 

The  compound  infusion  of  senna  is  good.  The  dose  is  from  1 to 
ounces  ever}^  4 hours  until  it  operates.  Sulphur  and  molasses,  mixed,  is  a 
good  laxative  at  times.  Much  benefit  will  be  derived  from  regular  massaging 
of  the  abdomen. 

Remember  that  by  constant  care  in  diet  and  habits  you  can  overcome 
many  cases  of  constipation.  Never  allow  one  day  to  pass  without  a good 
passage  from  the  bowels.  Injections,  or  enemas,  are  good  as  a temporary 
measure  but  they  are  likely  to  irritate  the  bowel.  If  you  feel  dizzy,  irritable, 
cross  and  lazy,  and  your  bowels  have  not  moved  recently,  you  should  cause 
a movement  by  giving  an  enema  or  by  using  some  of  the  other  means 
mentioned.  Do  not  take  anything  to  act  upon  your  liver  or  bowels  when 
they  are  acting  well  simply  because  it  is  a certain  season  of  the  year.  If 
your  bowels  are  regular  and  you  think  your  liver  is  torpid,  drink  lots  of  good 
water  and  eat  very  little  or  nothing  for  a day  or  two.  Most  of  us  eat  too 
much.  Many  of  our  ailments  are  caused  by  over  eating  and  among  these 
aliments  are  sluggish  kidneys,  torpid  liver  and  bowels,  dizziness,  neuralgias 
and  headaches.  Eat  less  food  and  drink  more  water. 

In  closing  this  subject  I want  to  give  a prescription  gotten  up  and  fre- 
quently prescribed  by  myself. 

For  Constipation. — Take  grain  of  aloin,  % grain  of  nux  vomica,  % 

grain  of  podophyllin  and  2 grains  or  more  of  powdered  gentian  ; mix  thor- 
oughly. This  quantity  will  make  one  capsule  or  it  can  be  rolled  into  a pill. 
Of  course  you  are  to  have  as  many  made  as  is  deemed  necessarv.  One  of 
these  pills  or  capsules  may  be  taken  every  night  if  necessary.  This  is  not  a 
cathartic  but  a light  tonic-laxative  and  I know  it  is  excellent  where  a tonic- 
laxative  is  needed. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Castile  Soap  and  Rhubarb. — Make  some  pills  of  castile  soap  and 
rhubarb,  using  half  a grain  of  each.  Take  two  pills  before  retiring. 


156 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Physician’s  Remark. — The  rhubarb  is  laxative  and  the  soap  is  oily  and 
slightly  laxative  also. 

2.  Diet,  Etc. — If  you  are  constipated  drink  freely  of  cold  water  and  also 
use  warm  water  as  an  injection.  Eat  fruits,  vegetables  and  soups.  Cracked 
wheat  is  a fine  remedy.  Attend  regularly  and  promptly  to  the  calls  of  nature. 

3.  Senna  and  Boneset. — An  occasional  dose  of  senna  tea  is  good  for 
constipation,  also  an  injection  of  boneset  tea  with  a little  molasses  is  effective. 

4.  Charcoal  and  Molasses. — Mix  charcoal  with  a little  molasses  and 
take  from  a teaspoonful  to  a tablespoonful  as  often  as  required  to  produce  the 
desired  effects.  At  the  same  time  it  will  be  well  to  bathe  the  bowels  occa* 
sionally  with  vinegar  to  which  a little  pepper  has  been  added. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  molasses  is  loosening  and  the  charcoal  is  an 
antiseptic. 

5.  Hot  Water. — Hot  water  drank  freely  half  an  hour  before  bed  time 
is  soothing  to  the  bowels  and  one  of  the  very  best  laxatives  in  cases  of  consti- 
pation. 

6.  Baking  Soda. — A very  little  baking  soda  will  often  give  relief. 

7.  Figs. — For  constipation  in  children  give  them  a fig  each  morning. 

8.  Bean  Biscuit  for  Constipation. — Take  1 pint  of  beans,  % pint  of 
flour,  4 teaspoonfuls  of  molasses  or  sugar,  sour  milk  with  soda  to  sweeten, 
and  a piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Make  quite  a thick  batter  and  bake 
in  gem  pans.  Eat  two  biscuits  at  each  meal  until  relieved. 

Physician’s  Remark. — These  biscuits  leave  a large  residuum  and  the  butter 
and  molasses  are  loosening. 

9.  Olive  Oil. — This  is  also  good  for  gall  stones. 

10.  Lemon  Juice  and  Sugar. — Squeeze  the  juice  from  half  a lemon  and 
add  about  3 tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  a teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  drink 
before  breakfast  every  morning  for  a week  or  ten  days.  This  is  very  good. 

11.  Figs  and  Dates. — Eat  figs  and  dates. 

12.  Dandelion. — Eat  dandelion  greens. 

13.  Rhubarb. — Eat  plenty  of  rhubarb. 

14.  Senna  Tea. — Use  a tea  made  of  senna.  The  dose  is  from  2 to  4 
ounces.  By  adding  1 teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  to  a teacupful  of  the  in- 
fusion, you  will  take  away  the  unpleasant  taste.  It  is  not  to  be  used  when 
there  is  inflammation  of  the  intestines,  piles  or  falling  of  the  bowels. 

15.  Wahoo. — The  bark  of  the  root  of  wahoo  is  good  for  a torpid  liver  and 
for  constipation.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  1 dram  and  of  the  powder  from 
20  to  30  grains.  This  is  also  good  in  combination  with  blood  remedies. 

16.  Flaxseed. — A decoction  of  flaxseed  is  good  as  an  injection. 

17.  Confection  of  Senna. — Confection  of  Senna  is  a splendid  mild  laxa- 
tive for  constipation.  It  can  be  bought  at  any  drug  store  but  here  is  the 
formula  for  those  desiring  to  make  it  themselves.  Take  8 ounces  of  senna,  4 
ounces  of  coriander  seeds,  3 ounces  of  licorice  root  (bruised),  1 pound  of  figs, 
1/2  pound  of  pulp  of  prunes,  Vo  pound  of  pulp  of  tamarinds,  1/2  pound  of  pulp 
of  cassia,  3V2  pounds  of  refined  sugar  and  4 pints  of  water.  Give  one  to  two 
teaspoonfnls  at  night. 

18.  Cathartic  Pills. — Take  0 ounces  of  mandrake  root,  4 ounces  of  cul- 
ver’s root  or  black  root.  4 ounces  of  blood  root,  8 ounces  of  blue  flag,  4 ounces 
of  lobelia  seeds  and  V2  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper.  These  should  be  finely 
pulverized,  sifted  and  mixed  well.  To  form  into  pills  make  a thick  mucilage 
of  gum  arabic,  peach  tree  gum  or  slippery  elm  bark  by  dissolving  in  either 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


157 


water  or  molasses  and  moisten  the  powders  just  enough  to  make  them  adhere. 
Form  in  pills  the  size  of  a pea  and  roll  them  in  fine  slippery  elm,  bayberry  or 
flour.  Lay  them  in  a dry  place  exposed  to  the  air  to  dry  and  put  into  boxes 
with  fine  elm  powder.  Take  from  3 to  6 at  bed  time. 

CHOLERA  INFANTUM. 

(See  Baby  Department  for  Physician’s  Treatment  of  this  Disease.) 
PEOPLES’  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Spiced  Syrup  of  Rhubarb,  Etc. — For  the  severe  vomiting  of  cholera 
infantum  apply  a mustard  poultice  to  the  stomach  and  spinal  column ; or,  a 
spice  plaster  laid  over  the  stomach  often  gives  relief.  For  the  diarrhea  give 
a teaspoonful  of  the  spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb  every  half  hour  until  it  acts  on 
the  bowels,  then  it  may  be  given  every  3 or  4 hours.  In  a day  or  two  this 
should  be  followed  with  a tea  made  of  the  bark  of  blackberry  root,  cherry  tree 
bark  and  strawberry  root  and  some  of  the  leaves  of  each  added.  To  this  add 
a little  cinnamon  and  cloves  and  sweeten  with  white  sugar.  The  child  should 
have  plenty  of  fresh  air  even  if  it  has  to  be  carried  in  the  yard,  street,  or 
park.  If  it  is  too  sick  to  be  taken  out  of  doors  it  may  be  carried  on  a large 
pillow  in  a well  ventilated  room. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — These  remedies  are  slightly  astringent ; the  cloves 
are  a stimulant  and  antiseptic  and  the  cinnamon  contains  tannin  which  is 
astringent.  The  volatile  oil  of  the  cloves  makes  it  a hemostatic  which  means 
that  it  is  good  to  stop  bleeding.  The  mustard  or  spice  plaster  is  a counter- 
irritant. 

2.  Whites  of  Eggs,  Etc. — Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  thoroughly,  mix 
with  water  and  add  a little  sugnr  and  a teaspoonful  of  orange  flower  water. 
Give  a teaspoonful  every  hour,  It  seems  to  form  a coating  for  the  bowels. 

3.  Rhubarb,  Baking  Soda,  White  Sugar  and  Peppermint. — Into  a tea- 
cup put  half  a teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  a teaspoonful  of  powdered  rhubarb 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar.  Mix  these  and  add  Va  teaspoonful 
of  essence  of  peppermint  and  stir  while  pouring  the  cup  two-thirds  full  of 
boiling  water.  Let  this  settle  and  from  the  top  give  a child  a year  old  half  a 
teaspoonful  every  hour. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  soda  corrects  the  stomach,  the  rhubarb  is  a 
slight  laxative  and  gets  rid  of  the  irritating  material  in  the  bowels  and  the 
peppermint  is  an  anodyne,  anaesthetic  and  antiseptic. 

4.  Castor  Oil  and  Blackberry  Cordial. — Give  half  a teaspoonful  of  castor 
oil  and  12  drops  or  more  of  blackberry  cordial  every  hour  for  4 hours.  “ This 
has  been  used  with  success  many  times  when  other  remedies  seemed  to  do 
no  good,”  writes  a mother  living  at  Garrettsville,  Ohio. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Castor  oil  drives  all  the  irritating  material  from 
the  bowels  and  when  this  is  all  removed  you  should  stop  its  use.  A good 
way  to  make  the  blackberry  cordial  is  to  take  equal  parts  of  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  nutmeg  and  pour  enough  dilute  alcohol  over  them  to  make  a tincture. 
Take  21  parts  of  this  tincture  and  add  3 parts  of  fresh  blackberry  juice  and 
3 parts  of  simple  syrup.  Mix,  and  take  a dram  or  more  at  a dose  according 
to  age. 

5.  Cinnamon  Bark. — Frequently  give  small  doses  of  a strong  tea  made 
from  cinnarnon  bark.  Giving  castor  oil  regularly  every  day  is  also  a good 
remedv. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  castor  oil  casts  out  the  irritating  material 
and  the  cinnamon  tea  checks  the  looseness  of  the  bowels. 


158 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


6.  Flour  and  Milk. — Put  some  white  flour  into  a cloth  bag,  boil  for 
three  hours  and  when  cool  take  off  the  outer  part  or  skin  and  scrape  fine. 
Mix  this  with  boiled  milk  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  cream  and  let  the 
child  drink  of  this. 

CHOLERA  MORBUS. 

Sporadic  Cholera — Cholera  Nostras. 

Description. — This  is  a self  limiting  disease  characterized  by  vomiting 
and  purging,  colicky  pains,  and  often  muscular  cramps. 

Causes. — Age  and  season  have  much  to  do  with  it.  It  usually  occurs  in 
the  summer  time.  Warm,  damp  and  sultry  weather  and  improper  food  such 
as  unripe  fruit,  cucumbers  and  egg  plant  are  common  causes. 

Symptoms. — It  comes  on  suddenly  with  pain  in  the  abdomen  (belly), 
vomiting  and  diarrhea.  It  is  often  attended  with  cramps  in  the  calves  of  the 
legs. 

TREATMENT.— 

Place  a large  mustard  plaster  or  poultice  over  the  stomach  and  abdomen 
and  follow  with  flaxseed  poultices  if  necessary. 

If  there  has  been  indigestion  or  if  the  patient  has  been  eating  indigestible 
food,  give  laxatives.  A good  treatment  is  to  drink  lots  of  water  to  wash  the 
food  and  mucus  from  the  stomach.  . This  will  cause  more  vomiting  for  the 
time  being  but  the  vomiting  will  stop  as  soon  as  the  food  and  mucus  are 
washed  from  the  stomach.  For  the  excesssive  thirst  give  in  the  mouth  small 
pieces  of  ice  over  which  a little  brandy  has  been  sprinkled. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — After  giving  the  laxatives  or  washing  out  the 
stom.ach  as  above  give  15  drops  of  essence  of  wintergreen  mixed  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  laudanum.  Give  this  in  a little  water.  Sometimes  a few 
drops  of  camphor  mixed  in  a little  water  and  dropped  on  the  tongue  will 
stop  the  vomiting.  Give  a hypodermic  injection  of  14  grain  of  morphine. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  second  dilution  of  Veratrum  Alb. 
Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  from  I/2  to  1 teaspoonful 
every  15  minutes. 

It  is  always  well  to  keep  quiet  the  next  day  for  the  stomach  and  bowels 
will  be  sore  and  you  might  cause  inflammation  of  these  parts  if  you  move 
much.  If  very  sore  you  can  use  fomentations  of  hops,  etc. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Spice  Poultice. — A spice  poultice  made  of  a teaspoonful  each  of 
cinnamon  and  cloves  and  a tablespoonful  of  flour  wet  with  brandy  may  be 
applied  to  the  stomach.  Wash  the  stomach  out  by  giving  freely  of  warm 
water  and  flaxseed  tea. 

2.  Salt,  Pepper,  Vinegar,  Etc. — Take  1 tablespoonful  each  of  table  salt 
and  ground  black  pepper  and  V2  teacupful  each  of  warm  water  and  cider 
vinegar.  Of  this  take  a tablespoonful  every  few  minutes  until  the  whole  is 
taken.  Stir  each  time  before  using.  This  mixture  will  stop  the  purging  and 
settle  the  stomach. 

3.  Cloves,  Cinnamon,  Blackberry  Root,  Etc. — Apply  warm  fomentations 
of  hops  and  vinegar  to  the  bowels  and  bathe  the  feet  in  warm  saleratus  water. 
After  the  severest  part  of  the  attack  is  over  give  two  or  three  times  a day  a 
teacupful  of  a strong  decoction  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  blackberry  root.  A 
strong  decoction  of  burnt  corn  is  also  an  excellent  remedy. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


159 


4.  The  Celebrated  “ Sun  Cholera  Cure/’ — This  consists  of  equal  parts, 
mixed,  of  tincture  of  opium,  tincture  of  capsicum  (red  pepper),  rhubarb, 
camphor  and  peppermint.  Take  from  15  to  20  drops  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
water  every  half  hour  until  relieved.  This  dose,  when  used  twice  only  every 
24  hours,  is  excellent  for  summer  complaint. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Because  of  the  opium  this  should  be  given  to  adults 
only. 

5.  Mustard  Plaster,  Etc. — Keep  the  patient  warm  and  the  feet  wrapped 
in  warm  blankets.  Use  hot  water  bottles  to  the  feet  and  limbs  and  put  a 
mustard  plaster  over  the  stomach.  Internally  use  the  following  tried  remedy. 
Add  a tablespoonful  each  of  table  salt  and  ground  black  pepper  to  half  a 
tumblerful  each  of  hot  water  and  cider  vinegar;  mix,  and  give  a tablespoonful 
every  few  minutes  until  the  whole  has  been  taken. 

6.  Poppies,  Chamomile  Flowers,  Etc. — Make  a decoction  of  poppies  and 
chamomile  flowers.  Wring  flannels  out  of  the  hot  liquid  and  apply  over  the 
stomach.  At  the  same  time  the  following  mixture  may  be  given : 1 dram  of 
magnesia  and  4 ounces  of  peppermint  water.  If  there  is  much  diarrhea  and 
the  case  has  run  for  some  time  add  two  drams  of  paregoric  to  the  above. 
Shake  the  mixture  thoroughly  before  taking.  The  dose  is  a teaspoonful  every 
20  minutes. 

7.  Rum,  Molasses  and  Ginger. — Take  a glassful  each  of  West  India 
rum,  molasses  and  spring  water;  add  3 tablespoonfuls  of  ginger;  mix,  and 
drink.  This  is  a sure  cure  for  cholera  morbus. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — The  rum  is  stimulating,  the  molasses  is  a little 
loosening  and  the  ginger  stimulates  the  stomach  and  bowels. 

8.  Asafetida  and  Whiskey. — Put  some  asafetida  gum  into  whiskey  and 
let  stand  for  some  time.  Shake  well  and  give  a small  dose  of  the  liquid  and 
it  will  often  give  instant  relief.  It  is  also  good  for  wind  colic  in  small  children. 

9.  Cayenne  Pepper,  Camphor,  Etc. — Take  equal  parts  of  cayenne  pepper, 
tincture  of  opium,  tincture  of  rhubarb,  essence  of  peppermint  and  spirits  of 
camphor;  mix  well.  The  dose  is  from  15  to  30  drops  in  sweetened  water 
according  to  age  and  the  violence  of  the  symptoms.  Repeat  every  15  or  20 
minutes  until  relieved. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  good  for  adults.  Because  of  the  opium  it  is 
better  not  to  give  it  to  children. 

PEOPLE’S  HOM^  REMEDIES  FOR  STOMACH  AND  BOWEL 

TROUBLES. 

1.  Milk  and  Lime  Water. — Give  a little  lime  water  in  milk.  This  is 
fine  for  any  kind  of  stomach  or  bowel  trouble. 

2.  Onion  Tea. — Give  the  baby  some  onion  tea  if  it  has  the  colic.  This 
is  also  good  for  a fretful  baby  and  is  not  injurious  like  many  of  the  soothing 
syrups  which  are  used. 

3.  Peppermint  or  Spearmint  Tea. — Warm  peppermint  or  spearmint  tea 
is  an  old  tried  remedy  for  wind  on  the  stomach. 

4.  Saleratus  Water. — When  the  gas  on  the  stomach  causes  heartburn 
it  can  be  relieved  by  taking  half  a teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  half  a cup  of 
water. 

5 Magnesia. — Magnesia  in  two  or  three  teaspoonful  doses  in  a glass 
of  water  is  fine  for  the  stomach  and  for  heartburn. 


J60 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


6.  Charcoal. — For  waterbrash  when  caused  by  gas  give  a teaspoonful 
of  prepared  charcoal  three  times  a day. 

7.  Charcoal  and  Soda. — For  sour  stomach  give  teaspoonful  doses  of 
prepared  charcoal;  half  a teaspoonful  of  baking  soda;  or,  a dessert  spoonful 
of  lime  water. 

8.  Peach  Leaf  Tea. — For  inflammation  of  the  stomach  and  bowels  give 
a cold  tea  made  of  peach  leaves.  A tablespoonful  may  be  taken  every  hour 
or  two. 

9.  Ginger,  Camphor  and  Mustard. — For  stomachache  or  cramps  in  the 
stomach  use  either  essence  of  ginger  or  spirits  of  camphor.  A mustard  poul- 
tice applied  to  the  stomach  is  also  an  excellent  remedy. 

10.  Croton  Oil. — For  chronic  inflammation  of  the  stomach  rub  a little 
croton  oil  over  the  stomach  or  apply  a mustard  plaster  or  a mustard  poultice. 

11.  Rhubarb,  Ginger  and  Castile  Soap. — For  loss  of  appetite  mix  the 
follov/ing  and  make  into  12  pills.  Take  1/2  dram  of  powdered  rhubarb,  12 
grains  of  powdered  ginger  and  1 scruple  of  castile  soap.  Take  two  pills  every 
night  or  every  other  night  according  to  the  case. 

12.  White  Oak  Bark. — For  falling  of  the  bowel  add  1 ounce  of  white 
oak  bark  to  1 pint  of  water;  boil  away  one-fourth;  strain,  and  add  1 scruple 
of  alum.  Wash  the  parts  with  this  using  a soft  sponge  for  the  purpose. 

Physician’s  Remark. — These  remedies  are  good  for  this  purpose  because 
of  their  astringent  or  puckering  power. 

13.  Fruit. — Ripe  fruit  stewed  in  molasses  is  relaxing  to  the  bowels  and 
a good  food  for  the  patient  with  stomach  or  bowel  trouble. 

14.  Tannin,  Golden  Seal,  Etc. — For  falling  of  the  bowel,  any  good  pile 
ointment  with  a dram  of  tannin  added  will  be  found  beneficial.  As  an  injection 
use  a strong  decoction  of  white  oak  bark  or  a decoction  of  equal  parts  of 
golden  seal  and  the  root  of  Solomon’s  seal.  Retain  the  injection  as  long  as 
possible. 

Physician’s  Remark. — These  ingredients  are  puckering  or  astringent. 

15.  Sugar,  Orange  Juice  and  Soda. — Dissolve  2 teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  in 
half  a glass  of  water,  add  the  juice  of  an  orange  and  stir  in  a teaspoonful  of 
baking  soda.  Drink  while  efifervescing. 

16.  Champagne. — During  sick  stomach,  champagne  can  often  be  taken 
when  nothing  else  can  be  retained. 

17.  Royal  Mint  Sauce.^ — Put  1 teaspoonful  of  Royal  Mint  Sauce  into  a 
little  hot  sweetened  water  and  give  this.  A lady  living  in  Lincoln,  Illinois 
says : “ It  saved,  my  daughter’s  life  when  very  sick  from  eating  bananas.” 

18.  Treatment. — When  there  is  gas  in  the  stomach  (chronic)  causing 
colic,  etc.,  refrain  from  drinking  tea,  coffee  or  any  other  drink  while  eating 
and  for  2V2  hours  afterward.  If  constipated  use  some  cathartic  and  perhaps  a 
tonic  may  also  be  needed  under  the  advice  of  a physician,  but  the  refrnining 
from  drinking  as  above  mentioned  is  very  important.  A lady  living  in  Massa- 
chusetts says  she  practiced  this  treatment  under  a physician  in  Springfield, 
Mass,  with  entire  success  and  her  case  was  a serious  one  of  many  years’ 
standing, 

19.  Clam  Broth. — Clam  broth  is  good  for  a weak  stomach. 

20.  Spruce  Beer. — Take  of  the  essence  of  black  spruce,  V2  pfiit ; ginger, 
pimento  and  hops,  of  each  4 ounces;  water,  3 gallons.  Roil  for  10  or  15 
minutes;  strain;  add  warm  water,  11  gallons;  molasses,  6 pints;  and  yeast,  1 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


KU 


pint.  Mix,  and  allow  the  mixture  to  ferment  for  24  hours.  It  may  be  drank 
freely. 

21.  Calamus  Tea. — Make  a tea  of  calamus  by  scalding  1 ounce  of  the 
root  in  a pint  of  water.  The  dose  is  from  4 to  6 ounces.  This  is  good  as  a 
tonic  for  dyspepsia,  flatulent  colic  and  want  of  tone  of  the  stomach. 

22.  Chamomile. — A cold  tea  of  this  is  good  for  dyspepsia  and  irritable 
stomach.  , 

23.  Turkey  Corn. — This  is  a good  tonic.  Make  a tea  by  adding  4 drams 
of  the  powdered  bulb  to  a pint  of  water  and  give  from  1 to  4 ounces  3 times 
a day.  Or,  you  can  use  the  tincture  of  turkey  corn  in  from  C2  to  1 teaspoonful 
doses  3 times  a day. 

24.  Golden  Seal. — Golden  seal  is  a tonic  and  is  good  for  dyspepsia.  The 
dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  % to  1 dram  and  the  dose  of  the  powder  is  from 

0 to  10  grains.  Use  the  smaller  doses  for  dyspepsia. 

25.  Blue  Flag. — This  is  a splendid  liver  remedy.  The  dose  of  the  tinc- 
ture is  from  10  to  20  drops  four  times  a day. 

26.  Quassia. — A tea  made  from  quassia  is  a good  bitter  tonic.  The  dose 
is  from  1 to  3 ounces. 

27.  Gentian. — Gentian  makes  a good  tonic.  The  dose  of  the  tea  is  from 

1 to  2 ounces;  of  the  powder,  10  grains;  and  of  the  tincture  1 dram.  This 
may  be  combined  with  other  bitter  tonics. 

28.  Spring  Tonic. — Dissolve  1 ounce  of  rochelle  salts  and  1 ounce  of 
cream  of  tartar  in  1 pint  of  boiling  water.  Put  into  a bottle  and  take  a small 
wineglassful  each  morning.  This  is  good  for  the  stomach  and  for  the  com- 
plexion- 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  acts  upon  the  bowels  and  kidneys. 

29.  Bitter  Tonic. — Take  1 pound  each  of  poplar  bark,  golden  seal,  bay- 
berry  (bark  of  root)  and  columbo  root;  6 ounces  each  of  capsicum  and  cl  ves 
and  4 pounds  of  loaf  or  lump  sugar.  Pulverize,  sift  and  mix  well.  The  d ^se 
is  1 teaspoonful  in  either  hot  or  cold  water.  Or,  1 ounce  may  be  added  to  a 
quart  of  wine  and  a wineglassful  taken  3 times  a day. 

30.  Restorative  Bitters. — This  is  a tonic  and  is  especially  good  for  weak- 
ness from  diseases  of  women  such  as  amenorrhea,  leucorrhea,  weak  back,  etc. 
The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  Take  comfrey  root,  Solo- 
mon’s seal  root  and  spikenard  root,  of  each  (bruised)  1 ounce;  chamomile 
flowers,  columbo  root  and  gentian  root,  of  each  (bruised)  ounce : sherry 
wine,  4 pints ; and  boiling  water,  sufficient  to  cover  well.  Place  the  herbs  in 
a vessel,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  the  herbs  steep  for  24  hours,  closely 
covered,  then  add  the  sherry  wine.  Let  it  stand  for  14  days  and  then  press 
and  filter.  This  is  a good  strengthening  bitter  tonic. 

31.  Tonic. — A good  tonic  is  the  following.  Take  spikenard  root,  Solo- 
mon’s seal  root,  gentian  root,  wild  cherry  bark  and  peach  root,  of  each 
(bruised)  1 ounce;  add  4 pints  of  boiling  water,  let  simmer  slowly  to  1 pint; 
then  add  good  native  wine,  4 pints.  Steep  for  7 days,  press,  filter  and  add  2 
ounces  of  loaf  sugar.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

32.  Wine  Bitters  or  Compound  Wine  of  Golden  Seal. — Take  1 dram  each 
of  golden  seal  root,  tulip  tree  bark  and  bitter  root ; add  V2  dram  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  4 pints  of  sherry  wine.  Steep  for  14  days  with  occasional  shak- 
ings, then  press  and  filter.  This  is  a bitter  tonic  and  is  good  for  dyspepsia 
and  weakness.  The  dose  is  from  V2  to  2 ounces  after  meals. 

33.  Bitters  for  Dyspepsia. — Take  golden  seal  root,  bitter  root  and  orange 

11 


162 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


peel,  of  each  in  powder  form,  1 dram ; prickly  ash  berries,  1/2  dram ; and  over 
these  pour  1/2  pint  of  boiling  water.  Mix  and  let  stand  in  a closely  covered 
vessel  for  24  hours  and  add  pints  of  good  native  wine  (sweet).  The  dose 
is  from  V2  to  2 ounces  either  before  or  after  meals. 

34.  Golden  Seal,  Blue  Cohosh,  Etc.— Mix  together  1/2  ounce  each  of 
golden  seal,  blue  cohosh  and  helonias.  Each  is  to  be  in  powdered  form.  The 
dose  is  from  to  1 dram  in  water  3 times  a day.  This  is  good  for  dyspepsia, 
chronic  gastritis,  distress  after  eating  and  ulcerous  sore  mouth. 

35.  Liver  Pill  for  Epidemic  Dysentery. — Take  1 dram  of  powdered  lap- 
tandrin,  1/2  dram  of  powdered  podophyllin  and  5 drams  of  sugar  of  milk  and 
mix  all  thoroughly.  Give  from  5 to  8 grains  every  hour  or  two  until  the 
bowels  move  freely. 

36.  Blue  Flag,  Mandrake,  Bitter  Root  and  Milkweed. — For  obstinate 
constipation,  liver  troubles  and  rheumatism  use  the  following  herbs  in  powder 
form.  Take  1 ounce  each  of  blue  flag,  mandrake,  bitter  root" and  swamp  milk- 
weed and  V2  ounce  of  blood  root.  Mix  thoroughly  and  take  from  % to  1 
dram  3 times  a day  in  tea  or  water. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  GULLET. 

This  is  usually  caused  by  poison.  Dilate  the  stricture  with  instruments 

SPASM  OF  GULLET. 

This  is  rarely  met  with  except  in  insane  or  hysterical  persons. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  SMALL  INTESTINES. 

Catarrhal  Enteritis. 

Symptoms. — There  is  pain  and  griping  in  the  bowels,  diarrhea  and  loss  of 
appetite. 

TREATMENT.— 

Rest  in  bed  and  after  the  bowels  have  been  moved  freely  with  castor  oil 
give  bismuth  in  from  5 to  10-grain  doses. 

The  first  time  I ever  saw  the  “ Corn  Sweat  ” used  was  in  the  case  of  a 
married  lady  about  forty  years  of  age  who  was  suffering  from  inflammation 
of  the  bowels.  The  patient  did  not  get  along  as  well  as  she  might  and  her 
husband  asked  me  if  I would  object  to  the  use  of  the  “ Corn  Sweat.”  He 
explained  the  method  as  I have  described  it  in  the  Nursing  Department.  The 
husband  had  learned  this  from  his  mother  who  was  one  of  the  old  pioneers  of 
Michigan  and  a woman  of  vast  experience  with  herb  remedies  and  home  aids. 

I at  once  saw  the  possibilities  of  this  ‘‘  Corn  Sweat  ” and  consented  to 
its  use.  The  result  was  a great  benefit  to  the  patient  about  whom  I was  so 
worried.  The  explanation  is  very  simple.  The  sweating  opened  the  pores 
of  the  skin  thoroughly  so  that  it  could  perform  its  functions  and  throw  off  the 
poison  from  the  system.  The  capillary  or  skin  circulation  was  fully  restored, 
thereby  taking  some  of  the  blood  from  the  bowels  and  relieving  the  congestion 
of  these  organs.  I understand  that  Dr.  Nancrede,  Prof,  of  Surgery,  in  the 
University  of  Michigan  recommends  this  “ Corn  Sweat  ” when  sweating  is 
needed. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Lye  Water,  Mustard  Poultices,  Etc. — For  inflammation  of  the  bowels 
put  the  feet  into  warm  lye  water  which  is  not  very  strong  and  apply  mustard 
poultices  to  the  abdomen,  along  the  backbone  and  to  the  feet.  After  consider- 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


168 


able  redness  has  been  produced  remove  the  poultices  and  apply  hot  fomenta- 
tions of  hops  and  stramonium  leaves  or  hops  and  tansy.  Change  them  accord- 
ing to  the  pain. 

2.  Hot  V/ater  Cloths. — Apply  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water  to  the 
affected  parts. 

3.  Cold  Water  Cloths. — Wring  cloths  out  of  very  cold  water,  place  on  the 
affected  parts,  cover  with  a dry  towel  and  change  often. 

4.  Lard  and  Turpentine. — Warm  and  mix  well  four  parts  of  lard  with 

1 part  of  turpentine  and  grease  the  patient  thoroughly  over  the  bowels;  then 
cover  the  bowels  with  a warm  woolen  cloth.  A lady  living  in  Rockford,  Ohio 
says  that  she  saved  a child  with  this  treatment  that  had  been  given  up  to  die. 

5.  Bran,  Meal  or  Flaxseed  Poultices. — Apply  poultices  of  bran  or  meal, 
changing  as  often  as  they  cool.  Flaxseed  is  also  good.  A dose  of  castor  oil 
should  be  given  if  the  bowels  are  not  loose  enough. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  ILEUM-COLON. 

Ileo-Colitis  of  Childhood. 

Symptoms. — This  manifests  itself  by  purging,  vomiting  and  abdominal 
distress.  In  the  mild  form  there  is  a slight  fever  from  1 to  2 degrees 
above  normal.  Daily  there  are  several  loose  movements  of  the  bowels.  If 
the  case  is  more  severe  there  is  pain  in  the  bowels,  vomiting,  high  fever  and 
frequent  passages  of  yellow  or  greenish  stools  containing  mucus  and  undi- 
gested food.  There  may  be  straining  and  the  stools  may  be  streaked  with 
blood.  The  tongue  is  coated,  the  bowels  tender  to  the  touch  and  the  child 
rapidly  loses  strength  as  it  does  with  cholera  infantum. 

The  disease  is  far  more  dangerous  for  children  under  4 years  than  when 
they  are  older.  High  fever,  many  stools,  much  vomiting,  much  mucus, 
marked  nervous  symptoms  and  signs  of  poisoned  blood  are  all  bad  symptoms. 
TREATMENT.— 

Herb  Remedies. — Cranesbill  steeped  in  milk  is  very  good  for  diarrhea 
and  dysentery.  Oil  of  fireweed  is  good  for  dysentery.  The  dose  is  5 drops 
for  adults  and  should  be  given  from  1 to  3 times  every  hour.  A tea  made  of 
path  weed  is  also  fine  for  dysentery.  Use  from  2 to  4 ounces  to  a pint  of 
water  and  give  from  1 to  2 ounces  every  2 or  3 hours. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — If  there  are  evidences  of  an  inactive  liver  give 
very  small  doses  of  calomel  every  third  or  fourth  day.  If  there  is  much 
mucus  in  the  stools  give  from  1 to  3 teaspoonful  doses  of  castor  oil. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — During  the  first  24  hours  give  the  second 
dilution  of  Aconite.  Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give 

2 teaspoonfuls  every  2 or  3 hours. 

Give  1 tablet  of  the  third  dilution  of  Arsenicum  every  hour.  This  is  to 
be  used  when  the  patient  is  thirsty,  restless  and  vomits  water  or  watery  fluid 
and  when  there  is  a watery,  burning  diarrhea  that  makes  the  anus  sore. 

Give  the  third  trituration  of  Mercurius  Sol.  Give  1 tablet  every  hour 
or  two.  This  is  to  be  used  when  the  patient  is  bilious  looking  and  passes 
mucus  and  blood  and  has  pain  at  stool  which  is  not  relieved  by  passing  of 
the  stool. 

Use  the  third  trituration  of  Nux  Vomica,  1 tablet  every  hour  or  two, 
when  there  is  much  pain  before  the  stool  but  is  relieved  by  the  passage  of 
the  stool. 

When  there  is  a throbbing  headache  give  the  third  dilution  of  Bella- 


164 


THE  PEOPLE'S  PIOME  MEDICAL  BOOK- 


clonna.  Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  1 or  2 teaspoon- 
fuls every  1 to  3 hours. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Mild  continuous  counter  irritation  by  means  of  a 
spice  poultice  over  the  abdomen  is  very  good.  The  spice  poultice  consists  of 
equal  parts  of  powdered  nutmeg,  allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon.  These  are  to 
be  moistened  with  warm  water  or  vinegar.  A mustard  plaster  is  also  good. 
Use  one  or  two  parts  of  mustard  to  2 or  3 parts  of  wheat  flour.  This  produces 
continuous  but  not  severe  counter  irritation. 

For  a diet  the  patient  may  have  milk  if  it  does  not  curdle.  Beef  juice 
or  beef  or  chicken  broth  may  be  given  but  not  to  a very  young  infant.  If  the 
child  is  older  you  can  add  strained  barley  or  wheat  gruel.  The  digestion  of 
these  can  be  aided  by  the  use  of  liquid  pancreatin  or  liquid  taka-diastase. 

APPENDICITIS. 

Description  and  Location  of  Appendix. — The  appendix  is  a small  tube  a 
little  larger  than  a goose  quill  and  from  2 to  4 inches  long.  It  is  situated 
in  the  right  side  of  the  abdomen  and  rather  low  down.  It  can  be  located  about 
midway  between  the  navel  and  the  point  of  the  hip  bone.  One  end  is  closed 
and  the  other  opens  into  the  caecum  or  beginning  of  the  large  bowel.  In- 
flammation of  the  appendix  is  called  appendicitis. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  most  constant  symptom  is  pain  in  the  right  side  of 
the  abdomen.  The  patient  may  not  be  able  to  locate  the  pain  exactly  but  pres- 
sure with  the  hand  will  usually  show  the  right  location.  The  pain  is  usually 
severe  and  sharp  and  in  some  cases  is  agonizing.  Usually  it  comes  on 
suddenly  and  for  this  and  other  reasons  it  may  be  confused  with  kidney  or 
gall  stone  colic.  If  the  pain  of  appendicitis  stops  suddenly  it  is  not  a good 
sign  for  it  indicates  the  formation  of  pus  in  or  near  the  appendix. 

Next  to  the  pain  the  most  important  symptom  in  appendicitis  is  a tight- 
ness or  hardness  of  the  muscle  on  the  right  side  of  the  abdomen.  The  fever 
is  A^ery  high  and  there  is  often  vomiting.  After  a time  a swelling  may  appear 
in  the  lower  side  of  the  abdomen. 

How  to  Tell  Appendicitis  from  Renal  and  Gall  Stone  Colic. — In  renal 
or  kidney  colic  the  pain  runs  down  into  the  scrotum  or  groin.  In  hepatic  or 
gall  stone  colic  the  patient  has  generally  had  previous  trouble  with  gall  stones. 
TREATMENT.-- 

Preventive  Treatment. — Keep  the  bowels  open. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Absolute  rest  in  bed.  Apply  an  ice  bag  over  the 
appendix.  Give  no  food  or  drink  by  the  mouth,  give  no  purgatives  and  no 
morphine  unless  absolutely  necessary.  Use  a bed  pan  if  the  bowels  move 
for  the  patient  must  not  get  out  of  bed.  If  the  pulse  is  excitable  a little 
aconite  may  be  given. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Absolute  rest  in  bed.  The  medicines  used  are 
the  second  dilution  of  Aconite,  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna,  the  second 
dilution  of  Bryonia,  the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum  and  the  third  tritura- 
tion of  Mercurius.  Directions  for  the  preparation  and  doses  of  these  medi- 
cines will  be  found  under  “ Homeopathic  Medicines  ” in  the  Nursing  Depart- 
ment. 

Operations. — Great  difference  of  opinion  exists  as  to  this  (See  article  on 
Operations).  Dennis  says,  “The  plan  of  allowing  the  simple  catarrhal  cases 
which  are  doing  well  after  36  hours  to  recover  without  immediate  operation 
and  relegating  them  subsequently  to  the  group  known  as  interval  cases,  and 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES 


165 


the  prompt  operation  after  36  hours  when  the  cases  are  not  doin^  well,  seems 
to  hold  out  the  best  prospect  of  recovery.  The  pendulum  has  swun^  too  far 
toward  indiscriminate  operation.  But  now  the  introduction  of  the  interval 
operation  has  brought  the  pendulum  back  to  swing  within  the  proper  limits. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — As  a rule  the  patient  would  vomit  any  food  taken 
the  first  few  days.  Liquid  food  can  be  given  with  a syringe  and  injected  into 
the  bowel.  When  food  can  be  taken  it  must  be  liquid  like  milk,  broths,  etc. 
See  that  the  patient  remains  quiet  and  use  the  bed  pan  as  he  must  not  get  up 
for  any  reason. 

TELESCOPING  OF  THE  BOWELS. 

Intestinal  Obstruction — Intussusception. 

Description. — Intussusception  is  a telescoping  of  one  section  of  the  bowel 
into  another.  A section  of  the  bowel  seems  to  slip  back  into  the  adjoining 
section  and  thus  closes  it  and  prevents  the  passing  of  the  contents  of  the 
bowels. 

Causes. — Obstruction  of  the  bowels  is  caused  by  the  packing  of  the  con- 
tents of  the  bowels,  by  adhesions,  or  by  tumors. 

Symptoms. — There  is  pain  in  the  abdomen,  vomiting  in  the  first  stages 
and  absolute  constipation.  The  pain  soon  becomes  constant  and  agonizing 
and  the  vomiting  is  miOre  severe  and  constant  after  several  hours.  The  first 
material  vomited  is  gastric  and  mucus ; the  next  material  contains  bile  and 
then  there  is  vomiting  of  the  contents  of  the  bowels.  This  is  probably  due  to 
the  putrid  decomposition  of  the  stagnated  contents  of  the  bowels  above  the 
obstruction. 

Treatment. — Stop  all  food  and  wash  out  the  stomach  every  six  hours 
by  giving  large  quantities  of  water.  Give  high  rectal  injections  with  a foun- 
tain syringe.  Use  a warm  saline  solution  of  olive  oil  and  the  injection  should 
be  copious,  steady  and  regularly  repeated.  An  operation  will  be  necessary  if 
other  means  fail. 

ACUTE  PERITONITIS. 

Inflammation  of  the  Peritoneum. 

Description. — The  peritoneum  is  a membrane  lining  the  walls  of  the 
abdomen  and  covering  or  enclosing  the  intestines.  Peritonitis  is  inflammation 
of  the  peritoneum. 

Causes. — Most  cases  are  due  to  infection.  The  two  great  causes  are 
appendicitis  and  disease  of  the  fallopian  tubes. 

Symptoms. — There  is  severe  pain  in  the  abdomen  and  the  wall  of  muscles 
of  the  abdomen  is  rigid  and  sensitive  to  touch.  The  patient  has  a very 
anxious  face.  The  pulse  is  rapid  and  there  is  frequently  vomiting.  The  abdo- 
men soon  becomes  extremely  tender  and  the  patient  cannot  bear  the  weight  of 
the  bed  clothes  upon  him.  He  usually  lies  upon  his  back  with  his  knees  drawn 
up  and  supports  the  bed  clothes  over  the  abdomen  with  his  hands.  He  is 
afraid  lest  the  bed  be  jarred.  The  thirst  is  fearful.  As  the  disease  progresses 
the  abdomen  becomes  full  and  hard.  The  face  is  anxious,  pinched  and  peaked; 
the  eyes  sunken ; the  nostrils  thin  and  drawn ; the  skin  livid  and  pale  and  the 
tongue  dry  and  parched.  The  patient  breaks  into  a cold  sweat  and  has 
watery  diarrhea.  As  the  end  approaches  the  pulse  is  exceedingly  wiry.  In 
septic  cases  the  pain  is  absent  in  the  majority  of  cases.  It  runs  a rapid 
course.  As  a rule  in  well  developed  cases  the  patient  does  not  live  long. 


16G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Find  the  cause  and  treat  accordingly.  Hypo- 
dermic injections  of  morphine  may  be  necessary  to  relieve  the  pain  but  enough 
morphine  should  not  be  given  to  mask  the  symptoms.  An  operation  may  be 
resorted  to  in  some  cases.  Apply  a counter  irritant  over  the  abdomen.  In 
some  cases  leeches  are  used  and  in  others  a light  mustard  plaster.  The  thirst 
is  relieved  by  small  pieces  of  ice ; or,  better  still,  by  rinsing  the  mouth  with 
glycerine,  1 part;  and  water,  to  which  has  been  added  a few  drops  of  lemon 
juice,  3 parts.  Liquids  increase  the  vomiting.  Fomentations  are  good  in 
some  cases.  Keep  the  kidneys  working  well. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  second  dilution  of  Aconite  is  used  in  the 
first  stages  and  the  second  dilution  of  Bryonia  is  used  afterward.  When  the 
patient  is  very  thirsty,  restless,  vomits,  and  has  a watery  burning  diarrhea, 
the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum  is  used.  When  there  is  much  sticky  and 
bad  smelling  sweat  and  painful  diarrhea,  then  the  third  trituration  of  Mer- 
curius  is  the  medicine  to  use. 

DROPSY  OF  THE  ABDOMEN. 

Ascites. 

Description. — This  is  a serous  or  watery  fluid  in  the  abdomen. 

Causes. — The  causes  are  diseases  of  the  liver  (cirrhosis),  tuberculous 
peritonitis,  growths  of  the  ovaries  and  malignant  growths  obstructing  the 
circulation. 

Symptoms. — There  is  first  an  enlargement  of  the  lower  part  of  the  ab- 
domen and  the  sides. 

Treatment. — If  it  is  due  to  cirrhosis  of  the  liver  little  can  be  done  for  it. 
Tapping  may  be  resorted  to.  If  it  is  caused  by  heart  disease  treat  with 
rest,  digitalis,  and  saline  purges.  If  caused  by  a tumor  of  the  ovary  or  other 
malignant  growth  an  operation  should  be  performed  early. 

FALLEN  BOWEL. 

Prolapsus  Ani. 

Description. — This  is  when  a part  of  the  bowel  hangs  out. 
TREATMENT. 

Manual  Treatment. — Place  the  patient  on  his  side,  oil  the  tumor  well, 
and  then  press  it  back  gently  with  a soft  towel.  If  this  fails,  cover  the 
finger  and  introduce  it  gently  within  the  bowel,  gently  pressing  the  tumor  up. 

General  Treatment. — Remove  the  cause  if  possible.  Give  iron  tonics 
and  cod  liver  oil.  This  will  regulate  the  bowels.  Stools  should  be  passed 
with  the  child  lying  on  its  side  and  when  the  bowels  come  out,  push  them 
gently  back  and  keep  them  in  place  with  a bandage.  Keep  the  buttocks  to- 
gether with  a .strong  strip  of  adhesive  plaster,  in  children. 

FISSURE. 

Causes. — This  is  an  ulceration  of  the  anus  which  is  sometimes  caused 
by  piles  and  by  constipation. 

Symptoms. — The  pain  after  evacuating  the  bowels  continues  for  several 
hours  instead  of  for  a short  time  as  in  piles. 

Treatment. — Open  the  bowels  daily  with  a mild  laxative  like  castor  oil. 
Afterwards  wash  the  parts  with  soap  and  water  and  apply  the  following 
ointment.  Take  4 grains  of  calomel,  2 grains  of  powdered  opium,  2 grains  of 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


167 


extract  of  belladonna  and  1 dram  of  simple  ointment.  Mix  these  thoroughly, 
spread  the  ointment  on  a piece  of  lint  and  put  on  the  fissure.  Also,  you  can 
touch  the  ulcer  and  fissure  with  a bharp  pointed  stick  of  nitrate  of  silver  once 
a day  or  once  every  other  day. 

ISCHIO-RECTAL  ABSCESS. 

This  causes  severe  pain.  It  is  felt  on  one  side  of  the  anus,  or  opening  of 
the  lower  bowel,  as  a hard  brawny  mass,  having,  as  it  softens,  a red  surface. 
It  may  burst  externally  or  it  may  burst  into  the  bowel. 

Treatment. — Apply  a poultice  and  open  the  abscess.  Introduce  the  finger 
or  curette  and  scrape  it  out.  Afterwards  wash  it  out  thoroughly  with  some 
antiseptic  solution  and  stuff  it  full  with  gauze  and  keep  washing  it  out  and 
packing  with  gauze  until  it  is  thoroughly  healed.  Early  and  free  opening 
will  prevent  a fistula  in  the  bowel. 

FISTULA  OF  THE  BOWEL. 

Usually  this  has  one  opening  in  the  bowel  (rectum)  and  one  in  the  skin 
as  the  result  of  the  abscess.  The  more  severe  forms  are  outside  the  sphincter, 
the  inner  opening  being  from  V2  to  II/2  inches  from  the  edge  of  the  anus. 
Operation  is  the  treatment  if  it  bothers  much,  but  it  is  surprising  how  many 
of  them  do  not  bother  much.  Keep  the  bowels  open  with  mild  laxatives. 

TUMORS  OF  THE  RECTUM. 

Cancer  is  generally  of  the  epithelial  form.  The  only  treatment  is  opera- 
tion. Sometimes  there  are  warty  growths  and  they  may  be  of  large  size. 
They  may  not  bother  but  if  they  do  they  should  be  taken  off. 

EXTERNAL  PILES. 

These  are  situated  about  the  anus  and  outside  the  bowel. 

Causes. — They  are  due  to  a varicose  or  congested  condition  of  the  veins 
near  the  surface  and  about  the  anus.  They  are  bluish,  soft,  round  lumps  out- 
side the  anus.  Sometimes  they  are  large,  full  and  inflamed  and  when  the 
bowels  move  they  cause  great  pain.  They  generally  subside  in  a few  days. 

Treatment. — Overcome  the  constipation  with  senna  and  sulphur,  com- 
pound licorice  powder,  cascara,  etc.  For  the  pain  use  equal  parts  of  chloro- 
form and  sweet  oil.  Apply  with  a cloth.  (See  “ People’s  Home  Remedies  for 
Piles.”) 

INTERNAL  OR  BLEEDING  PILES. 

Description. — These  are  situated  within  the  bowel  and  are  more  serious 
and  troublesome  than  the  external  ones. 

Symptoms. — There  is  constant  bleeding  from  the  rectum  and  this  bleeding 
is  increased  by  movements  of  the  bowels.  Sometimes  the  piles  protrude  and 
drag  the  bowel  with  them,  thus  causing  falling  of  the  bowel.  Sometimes 
when  they  protrude  they  are  held  by  the  sphincter  muscle  and  do  not  go  back 
and  then  they  cause  great  pain.  They  may  then  slough  and  produce  a natural 
cure.  This  is  quite  painful. 

Treatment. — Overcome  the  constipation  but  do  not  cause  diarrhea.  Use 
compound  licorice  powder,  pills,  or  an  enema  if  the  patient  can  stand  it. 
Wash  and  grease  the  protruding  piles  after  a bowel  movement  and  then  care- 
fully return  them. 

Sometimes  an  operation  is  necessary.  Suppositories  are  good.  Pine- 


1G8 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


oline  salve  put  on  the  pile  internally  and  externally  is  good.  Chopped  raisins 
and  tobacco  mixed  with  lard  is  also  a good  remedy.  Touch  internal  piles 
with  tincture  of  iodine. 

Take  the  inner  bark  of  white  oak,  boil  in  water  until  it  is  quite  strong, 
mix  with  vaseline,  and  apply  to  the  piles  both  externally  and  internally.  (See 
“ People’s  Home  Remedies  for  Piles.”) 

ITCHING  PILES. 

Causes  and  Symptoms. — The  itching  may  be  caused  by  pin  worms,  small 
external  piles  or  eczema.  In  some  cases  it  is  a nerve  trouble  and  there  is 
no  local  inflammation  to  be  made  out,  the  skin  about  the  anus  having  a dead, 
white,  parchment-like  look.  These  cases  are  difficult  to  cure.  The  irritation 
is  worse  at  night  and  the  itching  is  almost  unbearable. 

TREATMENT.— 

Get  rid  of  the  causes  such  as  thread  worms,  etc.  If  the  part  is  too  moist, 
use  soothing  applications  such  as  a solution  of  lead.  If  the  parts  are  too  dry, 
use  oil  of  cadi.  Keep  the  buttocks  apart  and  this  may  be  done  with  a pledget 
of  fine  oakum. 

Equal  parts  of  pineoline  and  Webb’s  ointment  is  also  good  for  some  cases. 
Another  good  remedy  is  a mixture  of  % ounce  of  unguentum  hydrargyri 
ammoniat,  2 drams  diachylon,  1 dram  anthrasol,  6 grains  carbolic  acid  and 
1 dram  of  unguent  aqua  rosse. 

For  neurotic  cases,  or  those  caused  by  nervous  trouble,  keep  the  bowels 
regular,  stop  liquors  and  tobacco  and  live  plainly.  Fine  oakum  may  be  applied 
with  citrine  ointment,  oleate  of  mercury,  or  carbolized  vaseline.  (See  “ Peo- 
ple’s Home  Remedies  for  Piles.”) 

HEMORRHOIDS. 

For  painful  piles  use  the  following  prescription.  Take  % dram  of 
extract  of  opium,  5 to  8 grains  of  cocaine  hydrochlorate,  15  grains  of  menthol, 
and  1 ounce  of  ungt.  zinc  oxide.  Mix  and  apply  to  the  piles  occasionally. 
This  is  also  good  for  fissure  and  eczema.  (See  “ People’s  Home  Remedies 
for  Piles.”) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PILES. 

1.  Horse  Chestnuts  and  Lard. — Remove  the  shells  from  6 horse  chest- 
nuts, or  buckeyes;  chop  them  fine,  add  enough  lard  to  just  cover  the 
nuts;  and  let  them  stand  for  an  hour  near  the  fire.  Strain,  and  when  cool 
apply  the  lard  or  ointment  to  the  parts  twice  a day.  This  is  a very  valuable 
remedy  for  piles. 

2.  Butter,  Turpentine  and  Salt. — Make  an  ointment  by  taking  1 table- 
spoonful of  fresh  butter  and  2 teaspoonfuls  of  turpentine,  adding  a little  salt. 
Several  times  a day  apply  this  ointment  either  outside  or  inside  the  rectum. 
This  is  a very  fine  remedy  for  piles  and  is  well  worth  trying. 

3.  Tar  and  Lard. — Wash  the  parts  twice  a day  with  castile  soap  and 
water  and  apply  an  ointment  made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tar  and  eight 
rounded  teaspoonfuls  of  lard. 

4.  Alum  and  Lard. — Make  an  ointment  of  V/2  ounces  of  lard  and  a 
dram  of  finely  powdered  alum.  This  is  a very  fine  pile  remedy. 

5.  Tannic  Acid,  Carbolic  Acid,  Borax  and  Vaseline. — Apply  the  fol- 
lowing ointment  to  the  bowel  twice  a day.  Take  tannic  acid,  15  grains ; 
carbolic  acid,  20  drops;  pulverized  borax,  10  grains  and  vaseline,  2 ounces. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINES. 


169 


Apply  to  the  parts  two  or  three  times  daily  and  take  cream  of  tartar  or  some 
other  mild  laxative. 

6.  Indian  Pile  Ointment. — Take,  say  a teacupful  of  hog’s  lard,  more 
or  less ; put  into  a flat  tin  or  dish  and  take  two  bars  of  lead,  flattened  a little, 
and  rub  the  lard  with  the  flat  ends  and  between  them  until  it  becomes  black 
or  of  a dark  lead  color.  Then  burn  equal  parts  of  cavendish  tobacco  and  old 
shoe  leather,  in  an  iron  vessel,  to  a charred  powder  and  mix  into  the  lard 
until  it  becomes  a thick  ointment.  Use  once  or  twice  a day  as  an  ointment 
for  the  piles.  It  is  a never  failing  cure. 

7.  Sulphur  and  Lard. — For  blind  or  bleeding  piles  apply  an  ointment 
made  by  taking  1 dram  of  sulphur  and  2 ounces  of  lard.  Rub  this  mixture 
between  two  flat  pieces  of  lead  until  the  ointment  is  blackened. 

8.  Tobacco. — Tobacco  ointment  is  a great  pile  remedy. 

9.  Raisins,  Tobacco  and  Lard.^ — Equal  parts  of  chopped  raisins,  tobacco 
and  lard  makes  one  of  the  best  remedies  known  for  piles. 

10.  Witch  Hazel,  Apple  Tree  Bark,  White  Oak  Bark  and  Lard. — Make 
a decoction  of  witch  hazel,  apple  tree  bark,  and  white  oak  bark,  and  mix 
with  lard  to  make  a salve.  This  is  very  good  for  piles. 

11.  Solomon’s  Seal — Bruise  some  Solomon’s  seal  root  and  apply  to  the 
piles. 

12.  Cranesbill. — Make  a strong  decoction  of  cranesbill  and  use  as  an 
injection.  It  should  be  retained  in  the  bowel  for  some  time. 

13.  Cream  of  Tartar,  Sulphur,  Etc. — Take  1 ounce  each  of  ci;eam  of  tartar 
and  sulphur  and  2 ounces  of  confection  of  senna.  Add  enough  syrup  of 
ginger  to  make  a paste.  Of  this  take  a piece  the  size  of  a small  hickory  nut 
often  enough  to  cause  a natural  movement  of  the  bowels  once  a day.  Apply 
cold  cream,  tallow  or  lard  locally  to  relieve  the  irritation. 

14.  Cold  Water  and  Witch  Hazel. — It  is  sometimes  beneficial  to  wash 
with  cold  water  or  take  cool  sitting  baths.  If  there  is  much  bleeding  give 
injections  of  cold  water  or  witch  hazel. 

15.  Poultice. — If  there  is  much  inflammation  apply  a poultice  made  of 
sulphur,  stramonium  leaves  and  slippery  elm  bark. 

16.  Cream  of  Tartar  and  Molasses. — A teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar 
taken  in  a little  molasses  is  an  excellent  remedy.  It  keeps  the  bowels  regular. 

17.  Sulphur  and  Cream  of  Tartar. — Take  sulphur  and  cream  of  tartar  in 
equal  parts.  A teaspoonful  once  a day  is  very  effective.  While  using  this 
remedy  it  is  also  well  for  the  patient  to  drink  a tea  made  of  mullein  and  elder. 

18.  Hops,  Tansy,  Poke  Leaves.  Etc. — In  blind  piles  a cure  is  often 
effected  by  sitting  over  a hot  decoction  of  hops,  tansy,  poke  leaves  or  other 
bitter  herbs  until  the  parts  are  well  steamed.  A poultice  of  equal  parts  of 
lobelia  leaves  and  elm  bark  is  also  good  as  is  also  a poultice  of  poke  leaves. 

19.  Witch  Hazel. — Take  a teasnoonful  of  witch  hazel  every  3 or  4 hours 
and  at  the  same  time  bathe  the  external  parts  freely  with  the  same  remedy. 
This  is  very  effectual  in  many  cases. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LIVER. 

Including  Disease  of  the  Bile  Passages,  Gall  Bladder  and  Pancreas. 

Description  and  Location  of  Liver. — The  liver  is  situated  high  up  on  the 
right  side  and  its  lower  border  corresponds  to  the  lower  edge  of  the  ribs 
on  the  right  side.  It  is  of  a dark  red  color.  It  measures  6 or  7 inches  from 
front  to  back  and  about  12  inches  from  side  to  side  and  is  about  41/2  inches 
thick  in  the  thickest  part.  It  is  divided  into  two  lobes,  the  right  lobe  being 
much  the  larger.  The  liver  weighs  between  3 and  4 pounds  and  is  the  largest 
gland  in  the  body. 

Description  and  Location  of  Gall  Bladder. — The  gall  bladder  is  on  the 
right  side.  It  is  a pear  shaped  sac  about  an  inch  in  breadth,  four  inches  long, 
and  holding  a little  more  than  an  ounce.  It  is  a storage  place  for  the  bile. 
The  ducts  or  tubes  leading  from  it  join  those  leading  from  the  liver  and 
enter  the  bowel  about  3Y2  inches  below  the  stomach. 

Description  and  Location  of  Pancreas. — The  pancreas  lies  behind  and 
below  the  stomach  and  belongs  to  the  digestive  system.  It  furnishes  pan- 
creatin  which  aids  in  digestion.  The  pancreas  is  6 or  8 inches  long,  about 
1^/2  inches  wide  and  weighs  between  3 and  6 ounces. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  LIVER. 

Liver  Abscess. 

Causes. — This  may  be  due  to  injuries  such  as  knife  wounds,  etc.;  to 
dysentery;  or  to  inflammation  of  the  portal  vein  or  bile  ducts.  Tropical  ab- 
scess is  a disease  found  in  India. 

Symptoms. — There  is  enlarged  liver,  fever,  and  pain.  The  dyspeptic 
symptoms  are  marked.  The  fever  runs  high  and  the  patient  is  yellow  and 
generally  sweats. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  up  the  strength  with  good  foods  and  with  iron 
and  arsenic  and  if  it  is  a single  abscess  it  should  be  opened  and  drained. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Warm  Bath  and  Hot  Drinks. — For  mild  cases  of  inflammation  of 
the  liver  have  the  patient  take  a warm  bath,  go  to  bed  and  take  warm  drinks 
until  he  perspires  freely. 

2.  Dandelion. — Take  extract  of  dandelion  in  5-grain  doses  4 times  a 
day.  It  can  be  made  into  pill  form  and  is  an  excellent  tonic  for  the  liver. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Dandelion  is  an  alterative  and  also  a laxative. 

3.  Buttermilk. — Liver  complaint  may  be  remedied  by  drinking  a cup- 
ful of  buttermilk  every  day. 

4.  Decoction  of  Dandelion. — Make  a strong  decoction  of  dandelion  and 
take  a teaspoonful  twice  a day.  Dandelion  is  one  of  the  best  liver  remedies 
known  and  is  much  used  by  physicians. 

5.  Salt  Water  and  Lard. — If  the  complaint  is  attended  with  a costive 
condition  of  the  bowels  give  an  injection  of  1 pint  of  warm  water,  1 table- 
spoonful of  salt  and  1 teaspoonful  of  hog’s  lard. 

170 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LIVER. 


171 


Physician’s  Remark. — This  relieves  the  congestion  of  the  liver  by  remov- 
ing the  constipation. 

CIRRHOSIS  OF  THE  LIVER. 

Description. — This  consists  of  an  overgrowth  of  connective  tissue  in  the 
liver.  Sometimes  it  finally  shrinks  and  in  other  cases  it  becomes  enlarged. 
This  tissue  presses  upon  the  liver  tissue  and  interferes  with  the  proper  action 
of  the  liver. 

Causes. — The  shrinking  kind  is  caused  by  chronic  alcoholism  and  lead 
poisoning. 

Symptoms — There  is  stamach  trouble  and  dropsy. 

Treatment. — If  it  is  caused  by  alcohol  the  patient  should  quit  drinking 
alcoholic  liquors.  Each  morning  the  bowels  should  be  moved  with  Hunyadi 
or  Carlsbad  water  and  a few  drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  should  be  taken  for 
the  nausea  and  lack  of  appetite.  During  meals  the  pa:ient  should  take  the 
following.  With  each  meal  take  2 grains  each  of  pancreatin,  taka-diastase, 
and  baking  soda.  Tapping  is  the  best  thing  for  the  dropsy. 

ENLARGEMENT  AND  HARDENING  OF  THE  LIVER. 

Hypertrophic  Cirrhosis. 

Symptoms. — The  liver  is  enlarged  and  frequently  extends  below  the 
navel.  Jaundice  is  generally  present. 

Treatment. — There  is  no  cure  for  it. 

CIRRHOSIS  OR  HARDENING  OF  THE  CAPSULE. 

This  capsule  is  the  connective  tissue  surrounding  the  artery,  vein  and 
duct  of  the  liver.  The  disease  is  very  rare.  It  frequently  results  from  other 
diseases. 

AMYLOID  LIVER. 

This  is  caused  by  a starch-like  deposit  in  the  liver.  It  generally  comes 
from  other  diseases. 


TUMORS  OF  THE  LIVER. 

Cancer  of  the  Liver. 

Cancers  of  the  liver  are  very  rare  and  generally  come  from  cancers  of 
other  parts.  They  are  fatal. 

ACUTE  YELLOW  ATROPHY  OF  THE  LIVER. 

Description. — In  this  disease  there  is  tatty  degeneration  of  the  liver  and 
the  patient  has  violent  headache  and  delirium.  Atrophy  means  “ dwindling.” 
The  disease  is  very  rare. 

Causes. — ;The  cause  is  not  known.  The  disease  is  more  frequent  in 
women  than  in  men. 

Symptoms. — There  is  jaundice,  severe  headache,  vomiting  and  finally 
delirium,  muscular  tremors,  convulsions,  and  death.  D ,ath  is  nearlv  always 
the  result.  I know  of  one  case  where  the  disease  followed  an  operation  in 
another  part  of  the  body. 

JAUNDICE. 

Catarrh  or  Inflammation  of  the  Bile  Ducts. 

Inflammation  sometimes  entirely  closes  the  bile  ducts  and  then  we  have 
jaundice. 


172 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Causes. — The  disease  nearly  always  arises  from  inflammation  of  the 
duodenum,  or  first  part  of  the  intestine ; from  cold ; heavy  eating  and  drink' 
ing;  or,  from  a malignant  growth.  Gall  stones,  fright,  anger  and  pneumonia 
are  other  causes. 

Symptoms. — These  vary  greatly.  They  are  well  marked  in  some  persons 
and  in  others  so  slight  that  they  are  not  noticed.  Sometimes  the  patient  is 
wretchedly  ill,  has  headache,  and  is  very  weak.  The  stools  are  like  putty  and 
the  urine  like  porter.  The  pulse  and  respiration  are  remarkably  slow  and  the 
temperature  may  be  below  .normal  or  it  may  be  up  to  102  degrees  or  more. 
In  older  persons  and  particularly  if  the  jaundice  develops  slowly  there  is  a 
possibility  of  a malignant  growth  being  present.  If  there  is  a distinct  en- 
largement of  the  gall  bladder  it  is  probably  cancer.  In  other  cases,  when 
jaundice  comes  on  suddenly,  the  cause  may  be  gall  stones  and  in  such  cases 
the  patient  has  generally  been  previously  troubled  with  gall  stone  colic. 
TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Keep  the  kidneys  acting  freely  by  giving  largely 
of  vichy  water  and  5 grains  of  carbonate  of  potash  may  be  added  if  necessary. 
For  constipation  give  from  20  grains  to  a dram  of  sodium  phosphate  in  half 
a glass  of  water  every  hour  or  two  until  the  bowels  are  thoroughly  moved. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  third  trituration  of  Mercurius  Sol. 
Take  a tablet  every  1 to  3 hours.  Tincture  of  Myrica  Cerifera  (bayberr}^) 
is  also  a splendid  remedy.  Give  2 drops  every  2 or  3 hours. 

A few  years  ago  I had  a case  of  jaundice  that  did  not  yield  to  the 
regular  treatment.  I was  in  the  hospital  at  the  time  and  spoke  of  the  case 
to  Dr.  Hinsdale,  Dean  of  the  Department,  to  whom  I was  then  an  assistant. 
He  advised  me  to  use  the  tincture  of  Myrica  Cerifera  in  1 to  3-drop  doses 
every  few  hours.  I tried  the  remedy  and  the  patient  was  helped  immediately. 
Dr.  Hinsdale  had  found  this  remedy  useful  in  his  previous  practice  though  it 
is  not  mentioned  in  the  books  for  this  trouble.  The  tincture  of  Myrica  Cerifera 
is  made  from  the  bark  of  bayberry.  If  desired  a tea  may  be  made  of  this 
bark  and  used  in  the  place  of  the  tincture. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — The  patient  should  have  rest.  Apply  hot  water 
cloths  over  the  liver  and  renew  as  rapidly  as  they  cool.  Keep  the  kidneys 
in  good  working  order.  Avoid  all  fat  foods  and  rich  milk  is  not  very  good. 
Eat  nutritious  broths,  thickened  with  barley  or  rice,  with  a little  salt  added. 
These  should  be  partly  digested  with  pancreatin. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.—  ^ 

1.  Thoroughwort  Tea  and  Baking  Soda.— In  case  of  jaundice,  drink 
freely  every  day  of  thoroughwort  tea.  Baking  soda  taken  before  meals  is 
also  a good  remedy. 

2.  Barberry  and  Cider. — A valuable  remedy  for  jaundice  is  the  inner 
bark  of  barberry  steeped  in  cider. 

3 Wild  Cherry  Bark,  Sheep  Laurel  Leaves,  Etc. — Take  1 ounce  of 
coarse  powder  of  wild  cherry  bark,  sheep  laurel  leaves,  barberry  bark,  and 
bitter  root;  put  into  2 quarts  of  pure  cider;  mix,  and  let  stand  for  several 
hours.  Give  a teaspoon ful  3 or  4 times  a day. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  wild  cherry  assists  in  digestion,  the  laurel  and 
barberry  are  alteratives  and  act  upon  the  liver,  and  the  bitter  root  is  a cathar- 
tic and  diuretic. 

4.  Peach  Leaves. — Make  a strong  tea  of  peach  leaves  and  drink  half 
a pint  daily. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LIVER. 


173 


5.  Wild  Cherry  and  Peach  Tree  Bark. — With  gin  make  some  bitters 
of  wild  cherry  bark  and  the  bark  of  the  root  of  the  peach  tree  and  drink  freely 
several  times  a day. 

CHRONIC  JAUNDICE. 

Causes. — This  is  commonly  due  to  obstruction  in  the  ducts  by  gall  stones, 
growths,  or  stricture. 

Symptoms. — The  patient  has  fever,  sweats,  and  persistent  jaundice. 
TREATMENT.— 

Remove  the  cause  if  possible  and  relieve  the  constipation.  Apply  tincture 
of  iodine  over  the  liver.  This  must  be  kept  up  for  a long  time.  Fever  indi- 
cates pus.  An  operation  may  be  necessary  to  remove  the  obstruction.  Milk 
and  fatty  foods  are  hard  for  a patient  with  this  disease  to  digest. 

SUPPURATION  OF  THE  BILE  DUCTS. 

Symptoms. — There  is  fever,  jaundice  and  an  enlarged  and  very  tender 
liver.  The  patient  sweats  profusely  and  loses  flesh  rapidly  because  of  the 
pus.  There  is  not  much  severe  pain. 

Treatment. — An  operation  is  necessary  to  let  the  pus  out. 

ACUTE  INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  GALL  BLAdDER. 

Acute  Cholecystitis. 

Cause. — Gall  stones. 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  vary  in  severity  from  a slight  discomfort 
and  soreness  to  violent  and  alarming  pain  and  collapse.  There  is  tenderness 
on  the  right  side  about  the  region  of  the  gall  bladder.  The  pain  is  felt  under 
the  ribs.  Fever  is  often  ushered  in  by  a chill.  When  it  develops  suddenly, 
as  it  frequently  does,  the  patient  may  be  seized  with  sickness  at  the  stomach 
and  vomiting.  There  is  threatened  collapse  and  a rapid  pulse.  The  abdomen 
is  distended  and  its  walls  tight  and  hard.  Gall  stones  may  be  mistaken  for 
appendicitis.  When  the  patient  has  gall  stone  colic  he  has  generally  been 
troubled  with  gall  stones  before. 

Treatment. — An  operation  will  probably  be  required ; or,  if  temporary 
measures  are  used,  the  patient  should  rest  in  bed  and  there  should  be  counter- 
irritation over  the  region  of  the  gall  bladder.  Give  salts.  Morphine  is  not 
often  used  but  it  may  be  necessary  for  the  terrible  pain. 

GALL  STONES— CHOLELITHIASIS. 

This  is  when  there  are  gall  stones  in  the  gall  bladder  or  bile  passages. 

Symptoms. — Many  never  know  they  have  this  disease.  It  is  commonly 
met  with  after  the  40th  year  and  more  than  three-fourths  of  the  cases  occur 
in  women.  Only  about  five  per  cent,  suffer  from  distinct  symptoms  due  to 
this  cause.  Symptoms  of  biliary  colic  usually  consist  of  severe  pain  which 
amounts  to  agony  in  some  cases.  Occasionally  the  pains  are  very  moderate. 
The  patient  vomits  and  sweats  profusely  and  often  after  an  attack  a slight 
jaundice  may  appear.  As  a rule  the  attacks  last  but  a few  hours. 

Treatment. — Give  a hypodermic  injection  of  % grain  of  morphine  with 
1/120  of  a grain  of  atropine.  If  the  first  injection  does  not  give  relief  it  may 
be  repeated  without  the  atropine  in  15  or  20  minutes.  Use  olive  oil  regularly 
in  large  doses  for  a long  time. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  GALL  STONES.— 

1.  Bark  of  Sweet  Apple  Tree. — Perhaps  the  best  remedy  known  for 


174 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


gal]  stones  is  made  from  the  bark  of  the  root  of  the  sweet  apple  tree.  The 
bark  should  be  taken  early  in  the  spring  or  late  in  the  fall  when  there  is  no 
sap  rising  in  the  tree.  Put  half  a pound  of  the  bark  into  a large  bottle  con- 
taining a pint  of  alcohol  and  let  it  stand  for  two  or  three  weeks,  occasionally 
shaking:  it  so  that  all  the  strength  is  drawn  out.  Of  this  take  a teaspoonful 
3 or  4 times  a day  in  a little  sweetened  water. 

2.  Olive  Oil. — Take  large  doses  of  olive  oil.  Continue  until  cured. 

3.  Dover’s  Powder. — Give  full  doses  of  Dover’s  powder  to  relieve  the 
spasm  caused  by  gall  stones. 

MALIGNANT  GROWTHS  IN  GALL  BLADDER. 

There  are  sometimes  malignant  growths  in  the  gall  bladder  as  there  are 
in  other  organs.  It  will  not  be  necessary  to  treat  of  them. 

JAUNDICE  OF  NEW  BORN  INFANT. 

Icterus  Neonatorum. 

This  usually  appears  the  third  or  fourth  day. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  third  trituration  of  Mercurius.  Give 
1 tablet  every  three  hours. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  PANCREAS. 

Pancreatitis. 

This  disease  is  hard  to  diagnose.  The  acute  disease  is  a very  serious 
thing.  Malignant  growths  also  occur  in  the  pancreas. 

BILIOUSNESS. 

Congestion  of  the  Liver. 

Symptoms.- — There  is  some  headache,  a yellow  coated  tongue,  a bitter 
taste  in  the  mouth,  and  the  whites  of  the  eyes  may  be  of  a yellowish  color. 
There  may  be  sickness  at  the  stomach,  vomiting  and  constipation.  The  liver 
may  be  slightly  swollen  and  a little  tender  to  the  touch. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive  Treatment. — To  keep  off  biliousness  mix  15  grains  of  extract 
chirat?e,  4 grains  podophyllin,  8 grains  euonymin  and  8 grains  leptandrin ; 
make  into  20  pills  and  take  one  at  night. 

Herb  Remedies. — A tea  made  of  golden  seal  is  good  for  a torpid  liver. 
Also  a tea  made  of  culver’s  root  is  good  for  the  same  thing.  Use  the  dried  root 
in  making  the  tea  and  take  a teaspoonful  every  two  hours. 

Take  equal  parts  of  blue  flag  root,  mandrake,  and  prickly  ash  bark. 
Grind  all  together  and  give  5 to  10  grains  every  2 or  3 hours.  Do  not  take 
enough  to  physic. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — If  the  stools  are  light,  give  1/6  grain  of  calomel 
in  powder  every  15  minutes  until  6 doses  have  been  taken.  Follow  in  4 
hours  with  salts.  Give  podophyllin  if  the  stools  are  dark.  The  dose  is  1/6  of 
a grain.  If  the  attack  is  sudden  give  salts  so  as  to  sweep  out  poisonous  food, 
etc.  If  the  face  is  flushed  apply  a mustard  plaster  to  the  nape  of  the  neck. 

Or,  yon  may  give  phosphate  of  sodium  in  from  20  to  60  grain  doses  every 
hour  or  two  until  the  bowels  move  freely. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — You  can  alternate  the  third  trituration  of 
Nux  Vomica  and  the  third  trituration  of  Mercurius  every  hour  for  one  day. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  LIVER. 


175 


This  often  cures  without  moving  the  bowels.  Use  an  enema  if  you  do  not 
wish  to  take  medicine  to  move  the  bowels. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — When  one  is  bilious  the  best  plan  is  to  go  a day, 
if  possible,  without  eating  anything.  Drink  plenty  of  water  either  hot  or  cold. 
You  will  not  feel  like  eating.  Biliousness  is  frequently  caused  by  over  eating 
or  eating  or  drinking  improper  things.  Stimulating  foods  and  drinks  some- 
times produce  it.  The  bowels  should  move  freely  and  when  one  has  a torpid 
liver  attention  must  be  given  to  the  bowels.  One  can  not  feel  well  when  the 
bowels  are  constipated  and  especially  if  they  have  generally  been  regular. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Fasting. — You  will  avoid  biliousness  by  fasting  two  or  three  meals 
whenever  the  taste  is  bad  or  the  tongue  coated.  This  treatment  would 
save  many  doctor  bills. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  allows  the  stomach  and  liver  to  rest  and  thus 
the  congestion  is  relieved.  This  is  very  good  advice. 

2.  Lemon  Juice. — Drink  lemon  juice  in  a glass  of  water  once  or  twice 
a day.  Do  not  sweeten. 

3.  Hot  Water  and  Lemons. — Drink  a cup  of  hot  water  before  breakfast 
every  morning  and  eat  lemons  frequently. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  hot  water  washes  out  the  stomach. 

4.  Tomatoes. — For  some  people  plenty  of  tomatoes  either  raw  or  canned 
are  good. 

5.  Licorice. — Take  a teaspoonful  of  licorice  powder  in  a little  cold 
water  before  going  to  bed. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Licorice  is  laxative  and  regulates  the  bowels  of 
constipated  people  and  in  this  way  it  is  good  for  biliousness. 

6.  Lemon  Peel,  Cream  of  Tartar,  Loaf  Sugar,  Etc. — For  bilious  fever 
sponge  the  patient  two  or  three  times  daily  with  either  warm  or  cold  water 
as  he  desires  and  give  the  following  drink.  Take  2 ounces  of  bruised  lemon 
peel,  14  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  2 ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  IV2  pints  of 
boiling  water.  Vomiting  may  be  stopped  with  equal  parts  of  milk  and  lime 
water. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Lemon  acts  upon  the  liver  and  cream  of  tartar  on 
the  bowels  and  kidneys. 

7.  Diet. — A plain  diet  of  bread,  milk,  'oatmeal,  vegetables  and  fruit 
with  lean  meat  and  fresh  fish,  is  best.  Exercise  in  the  open  air.  The  victim 
of  an  acute  attack  will  be  righted  by — first,  abstinence ; second,  porridge 
and  milk;  third,  toast,  a little  meat,  fish  and  ripe  fruit;  thus  coming  to 
solid  food  gradually. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  good  advice  to  follow  as  to  diet. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  KIDNEYS  AND  BLADDER. 


DROPSY. 

Edema. 

This  was  once  thought  to  be  a disease  but  it  is  only  a symptom  of 
many  diseases  of  the  kidneys,  of  other  organs  and  of  the  circulation.  It  may 
be  either  general  or  local.  General  dropsy  is  called  “ anasarca.”  When  there 
is  liquid  in  the  abdominal  cavity  it  is  called  “ascites;”  in  the  chest,  “ hydro- 
thorax ;”  and  in  the  brain  cavity,  “ hydro-cephalus.” 

Treatment. — When  it  comes  from  disease  of  the  heart  you  must  treat 
that  organ.  An  infusion  of  digitalis  is  then  generally  good.  Ascites,  or  liquid 
in  the  abdomen,  may  be  due  to  diseases  of  the  ovaries,  liver,  malignant 
growth,  etc.  The  malignant  growth  should  be  removed  if  possible.  Dropsy 
may  be  due  to  the  kidneys,  scarlet  fever  and  heart  disease.  So  the  diseas,e 
instead  of  the  dropsy  must  be  treated. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Broom  Tea  and  Cream  of  Tartar. — Pour  a pint  of  boiling  water  on 
a handful  of  the  common  herb  called  broom.  The  green  tops  of  the  broom 
should  be  used  and  the  whole  should  be  placed  near  the  fire  for  several  hours. 
Give  a teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  to  keep  the  bowels  open. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  broom  increases  the  flow  of  urine  and  does 
good  in  this  way. 

2.  Milk  Weed,  Horseradish,  Elder  Bark,  Etc. — Here  is  an  excellent  pre- 
scription which  was  taken  from  an  old  medical  work  and  it  will  be  found  very 
effective  in  dropsy  of  the  chest.  Take  1 ounce  each  of  milk  weed  root,  horse- 
radish, mandrake  root,  black  elder  bark,  juniper  berries,  root  or  bark  of  the 
dwarf  elder,  and  bark  from  the  root  of  bitter  sweet.  Add  1/2  ounce  of  mustard ; 
press  all  together  and  pour  on  1 gallon  of  hard  cider.  Take  a wineglassful 
on  an  empty  stom.ach  three  times  a day. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  is  quite  an  active  diuretic  (acts  on  the  kid- 
neys) and  causes  an  increased  flow  of  urine.  Some  of  the  ingredients  also 
act  on  the  liver  and  bowels. 

3.  Parsley  Root. — A tea  made  of  fresh  parsley  root  is  often  used  to 
advantage  for  dropsy  of  the  abdomen. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  is  slightly  laxative  but  it  does  the  work  by 
its  greater  action  on  the  kidneys. 

, 4.  Mustard  Seed,  Juniper  Berries,  Ginger,  Etc. — Take  half  an  ounce  each 

of  mustard  seed,  bruised  juniper  berries  and  ginger  and  an  ounce  each  of 
parsley  root  and  horseradish.  Steep  in  a quart  of  old  cider  and  take'  a wine- 
glassful  3 times  a day. 

5.  Corn  Silk,  Dandelion,  Etc. — The  following  is  good  in  dropsy  of  the 
lower  extremities  from  heart  disease.  Fluid  extract  of  corn  silk,  IV2  ounces ; 
fluid  extract  of  dandelion,  3 ounces;  infusion  of  digitalis,  3 ounces;  mix,  and 
take  2 teaspoonfuls  in  water  every  3 to  4 hours. 

6.  Corn  Silk,  Cream  of  Tartar  and  Sweet  Spirits  of  Nitre. — This  pre- 
scription is  for  dropsy  of  the  lower  extremities  caused  by  heart  disease.  Take 

176 


DISEASES  OF  THE  KIDNEYS  AND  BLADDER. 


177 


3 ounces  of  fluid  extract  of  corn  silk,  3 drams  of  cream  of  tartar,  2 ounces  of 
sweet  spirits  of  nitre ; mix,  and  take  2 teaspoonfuls  every  2 to  3 hours. 

7.  Dandelion  Tea. — Wash  and  cut  up  a large  double  handful  of  dande- 
lion roots  and  let  them  stand  for  a couple  of  hours  in  boiling  water.  During 
the  day  the  patient  should  take  2 or  3 cupfuls  of  the  decoction. 

CONGESTION  OF  THE  KIDNEYS. 

Acute  Hyperemia. 

Causes. — It  is  caused  by  medicines  like  cantharides,  turpentine,  copaiba, 
ciibebs,  anaesthetics  and  especially  ether.  Injuries  to  the  back  and  the  chill- 
ing of  the  skin  also  cause  it. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a tired  feeling,  pain  in  the  back  and  a slight  fever. 
The  urine  is  scanty,  dark  in  color,  and  of  a high  specific  gravity.  The  patient 
generally  improves  before  long. 

TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Absolute  rest  in  bed.  Give  2 teaspoonfuls  of 
solution  of  acetate  of  potash  with  1.  teaspoonful  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  at 
each  dose.  Give  every  two  hours. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite  at  the 
beginning.  Put  10  or  15  drops  into  a glass  half  full  of  water  and  give  1 or  2 
teaspoonfuls  every  1 to  3 hours. 

Common  Remedies. — Poland  water,  watermelon  seed  tea,  pumpkin  seed 
tea  an-d  flaxseed  tea  are  all  good. 

CHRONIC  CONGESTION  OF  THE  KIDNEYS. 

This  frequently  comes  with  diseases  of  the  heart,  lungs,  and  liver  and 
sometimes  follows  the  acute  form  and  is  usually  more  common. 

Symptoms. — Albumin  found  in  the  urine  is  a prominent  symptom.  The 
amount  of  urine  passed  may  be  scanty. 

TREATMENT. — Treat  the  conditions  that  cause  it.  The  patient  should 
have  absolute  rest  in  bed.  Apply  hot  compresses  over  the  kidneys.  Cupping 
is  another  treatment. 

Cupping. — Cupping  is  either  wet  or  dry.  Dry  cupping  can  be  done  with 
a small  tumbler  or  a wine  glass.  Moisten  the  inside  with  a little  alcohol  or 
whiskey,  light  this,  and  at  once  apply,  holding  it  firmly  over  the  part.  As  the 
air  in  the  glass  cools  it  will  “ suck  ” owing  to  the  contraction  of  the  air.  This 
draws  blood  to  the  parts.  Remove  the  glass  by  tilting  it  while  pressing  the 
skin  down  on  one  side.  For  wet  cupping  the  skin  should  first  be  congested 
with  dry  cupping,  then  parallel  incisions,  or  cuts,  should  be  made  in  the  skin 
with  a lancet  point  and  at  once  the.  cup  should  be  applied  as  before.  When 
the  cup  has  ceased  to  fill  with  blood,  remove  it  and  empty  it  and  apply  again 
until  enough  blood  has  been  drawn.  Then  wash  the  parts  with  some  mild 
antiseptic  solution  and  cover  with  dry  clean  cloths. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  fluid  extract  of  apocynum  cannabinum 
in  from  5 to  10-drop  doses  two  or  three  times  a day. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  third  trituration  of  Apis  Mel.  when 
there  is  scanty  and  straw  colored  urine. 

Give  the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum  if  there  is  much  thirst  and  rest- 
lessness. 

Give  the  third  trituration  of  Terebinth  if  bloody  urine  is  passed. 


178 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


ACUTE  BRIGHT’S  DISEASE. 

Acute  Nephritis — Inflammation  of  the  Kidneys — Diffuse  Inflammation. 

Causes. — Exposure  to  wet  and  cold,  extensive  burns,  scarlet  fever,  diph- 
theria, pneumonia,  pregnancy,  and  arsenic  and  corrosive  sublimate  poisoning. 

Symptoms. — Chills,  and  frequently  convulsions,  mark  the  onset.  The 
fever  is  from  101  to  103  degrees.  Dropsy  may  soon  be  a prominent  feature. 
The  urine  contains  albumin.  The  face  is  puffed  and  the  ankles  are  swollen, 
especially  when  it  comes  from  scarlet  fever  and,  perhaps,  from  pregnancy. 
The  result  is  usually  favorable  but  is  worse  in  young  children. 

Treatment. — The  patient  should  rest  and  take  salts  for  the  bowels.  He 
should  drink  milk  and  lots  of  water  if  there  is  no  dropsy.  He  should  live  upon 
a liquid  diet  with  no  spices  like  pepper  or  mustard  in  the  food.  Avoid  the 
cold  and  damp,  and  sweat  the  patient  if  necessary.  Place  him  on  a chair  in 
a warm  room  with  a blanket  pinned  about  the  neck  and  hanging  to  the  floor 
on  all  sides.  Put  a hot  brick  in  a pail  of  water  underneath  the  patient.  Or, 
you  can  admit  steam  from  a kettle  under  a raised  cover  at  the  foot  of  the  bed. 
Do  not  burn  the  patient.  If  the  patient  is  not  too  weak  you  can  use  the  corn 
sweat  as  described  in  the  Nursing  Department. 

CHRONIC  BRIGHT’S  DISEASE. 

Chronic  Nephritis. 

Description. — There  are  two  kinds  of  this  disease.  In  the  parenchymatous 
kind  there  is  inflammation  of  the  kidney  surface  proper  and  the  kidney  is 
enlarged.  In  the  interstitial  kind  the  connective  tissue  of  the  kidney  is  in- 
flamed and  the  kidney  is  contracted. 

Symptoms  of  First  Kind. — It  may  follow  the  acute  Bright’s  disease  and 
the  symptoms  abate  a little.  There  is  anemia,  dropsy,  and  albumin  in  the  urine 
and  these  persist  and  gradually  become  more  marked.  Yet  it  may  come  on 
stealthily  with  headache  and  stomach  and  bowel  disturbance.  There  is  less 
urine  and  it  is  of  a darker  color.  It  has  a heavy  sediment  and  contains  al- 
bumin and  casts.  There  are  eye  troubles  and  more  or  less  dropsy.  The  face 
is  pallid,  the  skin  of  a greasy  yellow  color,  and  the  breathing  difficult.  The 
parts  pit  on  pressure,  the  heart  acts  bad,  the  pulse  is  rapid,  and  the  patient  is 
sleepy  during  the  day  and  restless  at  night.  The  urine  is  scanty  and  its 
specific  gravity  high  or  about  1025. 

Symptoms  of  the  Second  Kind.— This  is  found  in  busy  men  who  say  they 
are  all  right.  The  symptoms  show  late.  The  urine  is  increased  in  quantity 
and  the  amount  of  albumin  is  not  great.  There  is  frequently  dimness  or  dis- 
turbance^of  sight  but  not  so  much  general  dropsy  as  in  the  first  kind.  Acute 
attacks  of  uremia  and  heart  palpitation  are  not  infrequent.  Finally  there  is 
more  albumin  and  the  heart  is  weak.  The  specific  gravity  of  the  urine  is  low ; 
1005  to  1012. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  is  largely  hygienic. 

Diet. — Drink  skimmed  milk  but  not  too  much.  Unskimmed  milk  is  the 
best  if  it  can  be  taken.  Drugs  are  of  little  value.  Build  up  your  patient  with 
proper  food  and  care.  Watch  the  stomach  and  bowels.  Use  very  little  beef. 
Vegetables,  starchy  and  fresh  soups,  boiled  or  broiled  fish,  raw  oysters,  clams, 
chicken,  fat  bacon,  cereals,  stewed  and  raw  fruits  and  weak  tea  and  coffee 
are  good. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  KIDNEYS  AND  BLADDER. 


General  Treatment  for  all  Kinds  of  Bright’s  Disease. 

Diagnosis. — There  is  albumin  in  the  urine  with  casts  of  the  urine-bearing 
tubules.  The  blood  vessels  are  somewhat  thickened.  There  is  a greater 
second  sound  of  the  heart  in  association  with  the  symptoms  mentioned. 

Bright’s  disease  is  a very  serious  disease  but  not  necessarily  fatal.  The 
treatment  of  the  conditions  depends  upon  the  variety  of  Bright’s  disease  which 
has  caused  them  and  the  peculiarities  of  the  person  suffering  from  the  attack. 
When  uremia  comes  on  in  acute  Bright’s  disease  from  scarlet  fever,  put  hot 
compresses  across  the  small  of  the  back  and  if  there  is  no  diarrhea  give  enough 
epsom  salts  to  produce  several  watery  passages  from  the  bowels. 

After  this  has  been  accomplished  give  5 to  10  grains  of  citrate  of  potassium 
dissolved  in  Poland  water,  3 or  4 times  daily.  If  this  does  not  stop  the  bad 
symptoms  place  the  patient  in  a pack.  There  are  two  forms  of  this.  If  it 
comes,  say  from  scarlet  fever,  and  the  rash  has  partly  disappeared,  the  skin 
is  hot  and  dry  and  the  fever  high,  it  is  well  to  wrap  the  patient  in  a sheet 
wrung  out  of  water  at  70  or  80  degrees  and  then  immediately  surround  him 
with  a blanket. 

If  no  fever  is  present  and  the  rash  has  faded,  or  if  it  is  not  advisable  to 
use  cold  first,  the  hot  pack  may  be  given,  the  patient  being  quickly  wrapped 
up  in  a blanket  which  has  been  wrung  out  of  water  as  hot  as  the  skin  can  bear. 
Place  outside  of  this  a dry  blanket  and  on  the  head  an  ice  bag  or  cold  applica- 
tions to  prevent  congestion  of  the  brain.  Give  a few  sips  of  cold  water  every 
few  moments  to  drive  the  blood  from  the  inner  organs  to  the  skin  circula- 
tion so  as  to  cause  sweating.  The  same  treatment  is  to  be  used  in  chronic 
Bright’s  disease  if  these  bad  symptoms  are  present.  Give  drugs  to  meet 
the  indications. 

If  the  uremia  is  from  the  second  form  of  Bright’s  disease  (contracted 
kidney)  the  same  measures  may  be  used.  Glonin  is  especially  good  for  high 
arterial  tension.  Give  1/200  of  a grain.  If  the  heart  is  strong  give  a hypo- 
dermic injection  of  Vh  grain  of  pilocarpin.  Produce  sweating.  Watch  the 
lungs  and  heart.  In  a mild  case  of  Bright’s  disease  the  patient  does  not  know 
he  has  kidney  disease.  He  refers  all  his  bad  feelings  to  his  stomach  and 
bowels  and  sometimes  to  his  heart  and,  unfortunately,  some  doctors  fail  to 
recognize  the  true  condition.  The  person  suffers  from  what  he  thinks  is  in- 
digestion. If  a person  is  sick  for  some  time  with  what  he  thinks  is  stomach, 
bowel  or  heart  trouble  he  should  have  his  urine  examined  and  it  will  fre- 
quently be  found  that  the  trouble  is  with  the  kidneys.  The  only  time  to  do 
anything  of  value  with  Bright’s  disease  is  at  its  start.  The  urine  should 
always  be  examined  and  especially  in  a chronic  case  of  disease. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  White  Bean  Soup. — Boil  a double  handful  of  the  pods  of  the  com- 
mon white  soup  bean  or  corn  bean  in  three  quarts  of  water  until  it  is  reduced 
to  half  the  quantity.  Let  this  be  the  only  thing  the  patient  drinks  and  he 
should  drink  freely  of  it. 

2.  Milk. — A New  York  physician  has  cured  many  cases  of  Bright’s 
disease  by  putting  his  patients  upon  a milk  diet  alone.  Care  should  be  taken 
to  get  the  purest  of  milk  and  the  patient  should  gradually  leave  off  other  food 
and  increase  the  daily  amount  of  milk  taken  to  5 pints. 

3.  Bread  and  Milk. — Put  the  patient  on  a strict  diet  of  stale  bread  and 
skimmed  milk. 


180 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


V 


UREMIA. 

This  term  relates  to  a group  of  acute  and  chronic  manifestations  result- 
ing from  poison  in  the  blood  due  to  the  retention  in  the  body  of  certain  pro- 
ducts of  urinary  or  kidney  origin. 

Symptoms  of  Acute  Form. — Very  severe  nervous  symptoms  come  on 
suddenly.  They  last  a very  short  time  and  may  soon  terminate  fatally  with 
convulsions,  coma,  difficult  breathing,  feeble  heart  action,  feeble  pulse,  fever 
and  lung  oedema.  Sometimes  these  symptoms  are  preceded  by  mild  uremic 
forerunners  such  as  headache,  drowsiness,  tired  feeling,  uneasiness  and  slight 
difficulty  in  breathing. 

Symptoms  of  Chronic  Form. — There  is  an  absence  of  the  above  marked 
symptoms  and  milder  manifestations  appear.  In  this  form  the  general  pros- 
tration, feeble  heart,  arterial  conditions,  occasional  stupor  and  delirium,  fleet- 
ing dimness  of  sight,  loathing  of  food,  sickness  at  the  stomach,  irregular  and 
hurried  breathings  and  twitching  of  the  muscles  indicate  the  grave  condition 
of  the  patient.  The  skin  of  the  face  is  usually  pale  in  uremic  coma. 

Treatment. — The  treatment  is  given  under  Bright’s  disease.  Sweating 
by  placing  in  a warm  pack  is  necessary  so  as  to  relieve  the  kidneys.  Cathar- 
tics should  also  be  given. 

STONE  IN  THE  KIDNEY. 

Nephro-Lithiasis — Renal  Calculus. 

Description. — The  stones  are  formed  in  the  kidneys  from  solids  derived 
from  the  urine.  They  may  be  present  for  years  without  causing  any  dis- 
turbance. Sometimes  they  suddenly  cause  trouble  if  the  patient  suffers  from 
a fall,  which  causes  the  stone  to  damage  the  lining  membrane  of  the  pelvis 
(part  of  kidney)  and  as  a result  there  may  be  blood  in  the  urine.  Or,  the 
stone  may  be  started  from  its  nest  and  proceed  to  travel  down  the  small 
channel  from  the  kidney  to  the  bladder  and  thus  cause  an  attack  of  renal  colic. 
The  result  depends  upon  the  condition  of  the  kidney  around  the  stone. 

Symptoms. — As  stated  the  stones  may  be  in  the  kidneys  for  years  with- 
out causing  trouble.  When  they  escape  into  the  ureter  they  cause  kidney,  or 
renal,  colic.  The  pain  is  sometimes  agony  and  extends  into  the  pelvis  and 
inner  side  of  the  thigh  and  even  into  the  groin  or  testicle  and  penis.  The 
bladder  may  be  irritable  and  there  may  be  blood  in  the  urine.  Sometimes 
there  is  total  suppression  (no  passing)  of  urine  if  both  ureters  are  closed. 
Then  it  is  very  dangerous  and  an  operation  must  be  performed. 

TREATMENT. — Relieve  the  pain  at  once  by  a hypodermic  injection  of 
% grain  of  morphine.  Between  the  attacks  drink  large  quantities  of  pure 
water  like  Poland  water  or  one  of  the  Lithia  waters,  unless  the  urine  is  alka- 
line. If  that  is  the  condition  drink  large  quantities  of  water  and  take  uritone 
or  urotropin  or  benzoat  of  ammonia  for  the  purpose  of  making  the  urine  acid. 
The  dose  is  from  5 to  10  grains. 

If  the  urine  is  extremely  acid  drink  water  very  freely.  It  is  best  also  to 
take  from  15  to  20  grains  of  bicarbonate  of  potassium,  3 or  4 times  a day. 
In  other  cases  give  citrate  of  potassium  in  10-grain  doses.  Drink  no  sweet 
wines  or  beer,  but  a little  rye  or  Scotch  whiskey  may  be  taken,  but  it  is  better 
to  do  without  these  drinks  altogether.  Sedentary  people  should  take  some 
exercise. 

Herb  Treatment. — Queen  of  the  Meadow  made  into  a tea  and  drank  freely 


DISEASES  OF  THE  KIDNEYS  AND  BLADDER. 


181 


is  very  good.  My  wife  has  a cousin  who  for  years  was  troubled  with  kidney 
colic  and  “ gravel  ” passing.  One  time,  many  years  ago,  my  wife  was  visiting 
this  cousin  when  he  was  taken  with  this  colic.  He  suffered  very  much  pain. 
From  the  description  I think  it  must  have  been  caused  by  gravel.  At  the 
time  he  was  suffering  so  much,  an  Indian  whom  they  well  knew,  happened 
to  stop  in  and  when  he  saw  the  distress  of  the  patient  and  was  told  the  cause 
he  went  out  into  the  fields  and  gathered  some  Queen  of  the  Meadow  (Eupa- 
torium  Purpureum).  He  made  a strong  tea  of  this  and  had  the  patient  drink 
freely  of  it  and  the  result  was  that  he  was  soon  relieved  of  the  pain.  He  con- 
tinued taking  this  remedy  for  some  time  and  was  cured.  This  was  over  30 
years  ago  and  he  is  still  living. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — For  the  bloody  urine  take  the  third  trituration 
of  Terebinth.  Take  a tablet  every  two  hours. 

If  there  is  red  sand  in  the  urine  take  the  twelfth  trituration  of  Lycopodium 
in  the  same  way. 

Berberis  Vulgaris  is  a good  remedy.  Use  2 drops  of  the  tincture  every 
2 hours. 


ABSCESS  OF  THE  KIDNEY. 

Causes. — Blows  and  infectious  fevers. 

Symptoms. — It  may  develop  suddenly  but  it  usually  develops  gradually. 
There  is  constant  pain  over  the  kidney  and  the  usual  symptoms  of  blood 
poisoning. 

Treatment. — The  treatment  is  an  operation. 

PYELO-NEPHRITIS  AND  PYELITIS. 

Description. — Pyelo-Nephritis  is  an  inflammation  affecting  both  the 
pelvis,  or  sac,  of  the  kidney  and  the  kidney  itself.  There  is  usually  a pus 
condition.  Pyelitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  pelvis,  or  sac,  of  the  kidney  only. 

Causes. — Generally  due  to  infection  from  the  bladder  or  urethra. 

Symptoms. — Cystitis,  or  inflammation  of  the  bladder,  may  either  precede 
or  follow  this  condition  and  mask  the  disease.  There  is  pain  and  tenderness 
in  the  back  over  the  kidneys  and  this  is  perhaps  attended  with  frequent  pass- 
ing of  the  urine.  The  urine  is  acid,  contains  pus  cells  and  blood  cells  and 
epithelium  and  is  usually  scanty  in  the  acute  form  but  profuse  in  chronic 
pyelitis. 

The  result  depends  upon  the  cause.  In  simple  pyelitis,  occurring  during 
one  of  the  infectious  diseases,  the  outlook  is  not  bad.  If  the  formation  of  pus 
is  marked  the  outlook  is  not  good. 

TREATMENT. — For  the  milder  forms  use  diuretics,  apply  counter-irrita- 
tion by  cups  or  heat  over  the  loins,  and  rest  in  bed.  No  highly  seasoned  food 
should  be  allowed.  If  the  urine  is  acid  give  alkaline  diuretics  and  salol.  If 
the  urine  is  alkaline  give  5 grains  of  uritone  or  urotropin  3 or  4 times  daily 
in  a glass  of  good  water.  Other  good  remedies  are  acetate  of  potash  in  5- 
grain  doses,  citrate  of  potash  in  10-grain  doses  and  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  in 
1-dram  doses. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Use  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite.  Put  10 
or  15  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  1 or  2 teaspoonfuls  every  hour 
to  3 hours.  Prepare  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna  in  the  same  way  and  it 
should  follow  the  use  of  the  Aconite.  If  there  is  scanty  and  painful  urination 


182 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


use  the  third  dilution  of  Cantharis.  Prepare  the  same  as  the  Aconite.  These 
are  very  good  when  used  alternately  every  hour. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  DISEASES  OF  THE  KIDNEYS 

AND  BLADDER. 

1.  Fomentations  of  Hops  and  Tobacco. — If  inflammation  of  the  kidneys 
is  caused  by  the  passage  of  stone,  apply  warm  fomentations  of  hops  and  to- 
bacco leaves  over  the  pain.  This  may  be  used  in  connection  with  other 
remedies. 

2.  Cider,  Horseradish,  Etc. — To  a quart  of  sour  cider  add  an  ounce  each 
of  bruised  horseradish  and  bruised  parsley  root  and  1/2  ounce  each  of  bruised 
juniper  berries,  mustard  seed,  and  ginger.  Let  them  stand  and  steep  for 
several  days  and  take  a wineglassful  3 times  a day.  A man  in  Pennsylvania 
who  had  kidney  trouble  for  years  and  who  had  tried  several  specialists  was 
finally  cured  with  this  simple  remedy.  It  will  be  found  excellent  for  many 
kinds  of  kidney  trouble. 

3.  Mustard,  Hops,  Etc. — For  inflammation  of  the  kidneys  place  the  feet 
in  hot  mustard  water  and  apply  a mustard  poultice  to  the  small  of  the  back 
and  follow  with  hot  fomentations  of  hops  and  stramonium  leaves. 

4.  Parsley. — This  is  very  good  for  dropsy  and  especially  dropsy  follow- 
ing scarlet  fever.  It  is  also  good  for  retention  of  the  urine  or  painful  urination. 
The  seeds  and  leaves  powdered  and  sprinkled  on  the  head  will  destroy  lice. 
The  dose  of  the  tea  is  from  2 to  4 ounces  4 times  a day  and  the  dose  of  the 
oil  is  from  3 to  5 drops.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  from  % to  2 ounces  of  the 
plant  to  a pint  of  boiling  water. 

5.  Pumpkin  Seed  Tea. — For  congestion  of  the  kidneys  and  scanty  urin- 
ation a tea  made  from  pumpkin  seeds  will  be  found  wonderfully  beneficial 
and  is  used  by  many  doctors.  A tea  made  from  water  melon  seeds  is  also  good. 

6.  Wild  Carrot. — Make  a tea  of  the  roots  and  seeds  and  take  from  2 to 
4 ounces  3 times  a day.  This  is  one  of  the  best  remedies  known  for  dropsy, 
gravel  and  urinary  troubles  generally. 

7'.  Common  Broom. — Take  from  2 to  4 ounces  of  the  fresh  tops  and 
seeds  and  make  a tea  with  a pint  of  boiling  water.  The  dose  is  4 ounces  every 
hour  or  two  until  the  effect  is  produced.  This  relieves  dropsy  of  the  chest 
by  increasing  the  flow  of  urine. 

8.  Scouring  Rush. — The  tea  drank  freely  is  good  for  dropsy  and  sup- 
pressed or  bloody  urine. 

9.  For  Dropsy. — Take  6 quarts  of  good  cider  which  is  medium  hard;  4 
ounces  each  of  carbonate  of  iron  and  the  roots  and  tops  of  parsley;  and  1 
ounce  each  of  juniper  berries,  squills,  white  mustard  seed,  mandrake  and  the 
root  of  queen  of  the  meadow.  Put  all  in  an  unglazed  earthen  vessel  and  cover 
and  allow  to  infuse  for  24  hours.  The  dose  is  a wineglassful  3 or  4 times  a 
day.  This  will  be  found  to  be  an  excellent  combination  for  dropsy. 

10.  Queen  of  the  Meadow. — This  is  an  excellent  kidney  and  bladder 
remedy  and  is  especially  good  for  gravel  and  bloody  and  painful  urination. 
It  is  also  good  to  increase  the  flow  of  urine.  The  dose  of  the  tea  is  from 
2 to  4 ounces,  4 times  a day. 

Physician’s  Remark. — I know  this  to  be  good  and  have  recommended  it 
for  stone  in  the  kidneys.  Read  the  Indian  story  related  in  treating  that  dis- 
ease. 

11.  Com  Silk. — Make  a tea  of  corn  silks  and  it  will  be  found  to  be  a 
fine  remedy  for  all  kinds  of  bladder  troubles.  Use  the  green  silks  if  possible 


DISEASES  OF  THE  KIDNEYS  AND  BLADDER. 


183 


but  the  dry  silks  are  also  good.  Drink  freely  of  the  tea.  The  doctors  use 
this  frequently. 

12.  Trailing  Arbutus. — A tea  made  of  the  leaves  may  be  drank  freely. 
It  is  good  for  gravel  and  all  urinary  diseases. 

13.  Cleavers. — This  is  good  for  suppressed  urine  and  inflammation  of  the 
kidneys  and  bladder.  Use  IY2  ounces  of  the  herb  to  a pint  of  warm  water 
and  steep  for  two  hours.  Take  from  1 to  4 ounces,  4 times  a day. 

14.  Arbutus,  Queen  of  the  Meadow,  Etc. — Coarsely  bruise  ounce  each 
of  trailing  arbutus,  queen  of  the  meadow  and  marshmallow  root;  pour  boiling 
water  and  good  Flolland  gin,  1 pint,  over  the  plants  and  steep  with  gentle 
heat  in  a closed  vessel  for  6 hours ; strain,  and  sweeten  with  honey.  This  is 
good  for  gravel  and  suppressed,  painful  and  high-colored  urine. 

15.  Juniper  Berries, — Make  a tea  of  the  berries  by  using  1 ounce  of  the 
berries  to  a pint  of  boiling  water  and  letting  them  steep  from  1 to  2 hours. 
Give  from  V2  teaspoonful  to  1 ounce  every  2 or  4 hours.  This  is  good  to  in- 
crease the  flow  of  urine.  The  dose  of  the  oil  of  juniper  berries  may  also  be 
used.  The  dose  is  5 drops. 

16.  Juniper  Berries  and  Sweet  Spirits  of  Nitre. — Use  5 drops  of  oil  of 
juniper  berries  and  1 teaspoonful  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre.  This  is  one  dose 
and  should  be  given  every  3 to  5 hours.  This  is  very  good  for  kidney  and 
bladder  troubles  when  there  is  not  enough  urine. 

17.  Buchu  Leaves. — Use  1 ounce  of  the  leaves  to  a pint  of  boiling  water 
and  steep  from  1 to  2 hours.  This,  taken  freely,  is  very  good  for  suppressed 
and  painful  urination  or  inflammation  of  the  bladder. 

SUPPRESSION  OR  RETENTION  OF  URINE. 

Anuria. 

This  is  when  no  urine  is  passed. 

Treatment. — The  treatment  depends  upon  the  cause.  If  it  comes  from 
stones  an  operation  will  be  necessary  to  remove  them. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — If  from  other  causes  than  stones  give  hypodermic 
injections  every  3 or  4 hours  of  full  doses  of  nitroglycerin.  Give  nitrate  of 
potash  in  10-grain  doses.  If  the  kidneys  are  much  congested  apply  hot 
poultices  or  compresses  across  the  small  of  the  back  or  resort  to  cupping  as 
described  in  treating  chronic  congestion  of  the  kidneys. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — If  there  is  scanty  or  light-colored  urine  give 
the  third  trituration  of  Apis.  Mel.  every  half  hour  or  every  hour.  Give  one 
tablet  at  a dose.  If  there  is  thirst  and  restlessness  give  the  third  trituration 
of  Arsenicum  in  the  same  way. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Some  years  ago  a gentleman  who  did  not  at  that 
time  doctor  with  me  met  me  on  the  street.  He  told  me  his  doctor  was  away 
and  that  his  baby  was  troubled  in  passing  water  and  passed  but  little.  As  he 
was  a farmer  I asked  him  if  he  had  any  pumpkin  seeds.  He  replied  that  he  had 
and  I told  him  to  make  a tea  of  them  and  give  it  to  the  child.  He  gave  me  a 
queer  look  as  though  he  thought  I was  not  in  earnest.  “ Oh,  of  course,”  I said, 
“ you  can  come  up  to  the  office  and  I can  give  you  a prescription  and  charge 
you  for  it  but  there  is  nothing  that  will  do  more  good  than  pumpkin  seed  tea.” 
So  he  agreed  to  try  it.  A few  days  afterward  he  again  met  me  and  said  that 
the  child  was  now  all  right.  He  said  he  had  never  heard  of  that  remedy  before. 
There  is  more  medical  virtue  in  pumpkin  seeds  than  many  think.  Medicine 
made  from  them  is  called  **  pepo  ” by  the  doctors  but  the  simple  tea  is  just 


1S4 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


as  effective.  By  eating  enough  of  the  seeds  at  night  you  can  stupefy  a tape- 
worm and  a cathartic  given  three  or  four  hours  afterwards  will  generally 
expel  the  worm.  You  would  be  surprised  to  know  the  medical  properties 
of  many  of  these  so-called  mild  remedies.  They  only  need  to  be  used  properly 
to  bring  out  their  unsuspected  powers. 

A friend  in  Pennsylvania  wrote  me  some  time  ago  that  he  did  not  pass 
enough  urine  and  that  urination  was  very  painful.  I wrote  and  told  him 
I could  send  him  a prescription  but  I advised  him  to  go  to  the  drug  store 
and  get  a simple  remedy — a five-cent  package  of  buchu  leaves.  Many  of 
these  herbs  are  now  put  up  in  this  way  and  are  cheap  and  handy  to  use.  I 
told  him  to  make  a tea  of  these  leaves  and  drink  of  it  freely.  He  wrote  to  me 
soon  afterwards  saying  he  was  surprised  at  the  quick  and  splendid  effect  of 
a remedy  apparently  so  simple.  Buchu  leaves  contain  a number  of  medical 
constituents.  Many  simple  remedies  are  just  as  effective  as  the  more  power- 
ful drugs. 

PEOPLE’S  H9ME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Pumpkin  Seed  Tea. — When  used  freely  this  is  especially  good  for 
children.  Cut  the  seeds  and  steep  for  1 or  2 hours.  Give  from  1 to  4 tea- 
spoonfuls at  a dose  where  the  urine  does  not  pass  freely.  This  is  a very  good 
remedy. 

2.  Pumpkin,  Watermelon  or  Cucumber  Seeds. — An  excellent  remedy  is 
a tea  made  from  either  pumpkin,  watermelon  or  cucumber  seeds. 

3.  Spearmint  Tea. — Have  the  patient  drink  a pint  of  spearmint  tea  to 
which  has  been  added  half  a gill  of  Holland  gin  and  an  ounce  of  spirits  of 
nitre.  The  whole  of  this  should  be  drank  within  an  hour  at  different  times. 
If  one  dose  is  not  enough  it  may  be  repeated  within  two  hours. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  will  be  found  to  be  an  excellent  remedy. 

4.  Hops  and  Lobelia. — If  inflammation  of  the  neck  of  the  bladder  is  the 
cause  of  the  retention  of  the  urine,  remain  in  a warm  foot  bath  for  twenty 
minutes  and  then  apply  between  the  legs  a fomentation  of  equal  parts  of 
hops  and  lobelia  leaves. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Here  is  another  good  remedy.  Still  others  will 
be  found  under  the  home  remedies  for  the  diseases  of  the  kidneys  and  bladder. 

5.  Baths  and  Drinks. — Baths  of  either  cold  or  warm  water  are  good. 
Also  drink  freely  of  cold  water  or  gum  arabic  water. 

BLOODY  URINE. 

Haematuria. 

Causes. — Stone,  acute  fevers,  blows,  injuries,  etc. 

TREATMENT. — The  patient  should  have  rest.  Counter  irritants  like 
mustard,  turpentine  and  cantharides  should  not  be  advised  and  especially  in 
large  doses. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — For  weakness  from  loss  of  much  blood  give 
the  second  dilution  of  China. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Drinks. — Give  mild  drinks  such  as  slippery  elm  tea. 

LITHURIA. 

This  is  an  excess  of  uric  acid  in  the  urine. 

Treatment. — Give  plenty  of  water  and  a proper  diet.  Not  too  much  meat. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  KIDNEYS  AND  BLADDER. 


185 


INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BLADDER. 

Cystitis. 

SYMPTOMS.— 

Acute  Form. — There  is  severe  pain  in  the  region  of  the  bladder  which 
is  worse  from  pressure  or  motion.  There  is  frequent  and  painful  urination 
with  straining  and  a feeling  of  scalding.  The  urine  is  passed  drop  by  drop, 
is  highly  colored,  hot  and  sometimes  mixed  with  blood,  mucus  and  pus. 

Symptoms  of  Chronic  Form. — This  is  not  so  painful.  There  is  frequent 
urging  to  pass  urine.  The  qrine  is  cloudy  and  when  poured  from  one 
vessel  to  another  it  looks  like  a ropy  mass. 

TREATMENT.— 

Treatment  of  Acute  Form. — Give  mild  drinks  and  lots  of  water. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — For  the  first  stage  use  the  third  dilution  of 
Aconite.  Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  giVe  1 or  2 
teaspoonfuls  every  1 to  3 hours. 

Use  the  third  attenuation  of  Cantharis.  This  may  be  alternated  with 
the  Aconite  if  desired. 

If  there  is  bloody  urine  give  a dose  of  the  third  attenuation  of  Tere- 
binth every  two  hours. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Washing  out  the  bladder  with  boiled  water  and 
some  antiseptic  like  boric  acid  is  very  good  but  must  be  done  carefully  and 
must  never  be  done  by  one  who  has  not  had  experience.  Permanganate  of 
potash  is  good  to  put  in  the  water  and  golden  seal  is  also  good  and  especially 
when  the  trouble  is  more  acute. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REATEDIES.— 

Physician’s  Remark. — Whenever  injections  into  the  bladder  are  given 
they  should  be  done  by  one  who  knows  how  and  is  clean  and  careful. 

1.  Teas  of  Buchu,  Pumpkin  or  Watermelon  Seeds. — Give  mild  drinks 
such  as  teas  made  from  buchu  leaves  or  pumpkin  or  watermelon  seeds. 

2.  Corn  Silk  Tea. — Corn  silk  tea  is  largely  used  by  physicians  for  all 
kinds  of  bladder  trouble.  Steep  the  corn  silks  in  water  and  drink  freely.  The 
green  silks  are  best  but  they  are  good  either  green  or  dry. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Yes,  this  tea  will  be  found  very  effective. 

3.  Flaxseed  Tea. — Flaxseed  tea  is  good  for  this  and  also  for  kidnev 
troubles. 

4.  Bean  Pods. — Drink  a tea  made  of  bean  pods  for  chronic  inflammation 
of  the  bladder. 

5.  Golden  Seal. — One  of  the  finest  remedies  for  chronic  inflammation 
of  the  bladder  is  a tea  made  from  golden  seal  roots  Carefully  inject  the 
warm  tea  into  the  bladder  once  a day.  A tea  made  from  equal  parts  of  golden 
seal,  witch  hazel  and  stramonium  is  better  in  some  cases. 

6 Arnica,  Etc. — Carefully  give  injections  of  warm  water  with  a few 
drops  of  tincture  of  arnica,  and  drink  teas  of  either  flaxseed,  marshmallow 
or  peach  leaves. 

7 Hot  Fomentations. — Apply  hot  fomentations  of  hops,  tansy,  worm- 
wood or  chamomile  flowers;  use  the  hot  foot  bath  and  give  internally  some 
parsley  tea  with  a little  spirits  of  nitre  and  gin  added. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  is  a combination  of  some  good  remedies  and 
will  be  found  very  effective. 

8.  Castor  Oil. — Take  a warm  hip  bath  and  a tablespoonful  of  castor  oil. 


186 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Physician’s  Remark. — By  relieving  constipation  you  frequently  relieve 
the  trouble. 

Other  remedies  will  be  found  under  the  home  remedies  for  diseases  of  the 
kidneys  and  bladder. 

BED  WETTING. 

Incontinence  of  Urine — Enuresis. 

Urine,  or  water,  is  passed  involuntarily  at  night,  usually  during  the  first 
hours  of  sleep. 

Causes. — It  is  sometimes  caused  by  stone  in  the  bladder  but  more  fre- 
quently it  is  caused  in  children  by  worms. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive  Treatment. — Remove  the  causes  and  raise  the  foot  of  the 
bed  a little  but  not  too  much.  Sometimes  bed  wetting  becomes  a habit. 
The  child  should  be  taught  to  pass  water  during  the  day  as  soon  as  there 
is  a call  of  nature.  It  should  not  hold  the  water  for  a while,  then  at  night 
it  will  be  aroused  and  awake  when  there  is  a desire  to  pass  water.  Do  not 
let  the  child  drink  much  liquid  at  night.  Have  him  sleep  on  his  side  with  as 
little  clothing  as  possible.  The  bowels  should  be  kept  regular  and  he  should 
have  a passage  every  day.  See  that  the  private  parts  are  kept  clean  and 
then  there  will  be  no  irritation  from  that  cause. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Give  the-  fluid  extract  of  ergot  3 times  a day. 
Give  from  10  to  30  drops  according  to  age.  Thirty  drops  is  the  dose  for 
a grown  person. 

Give  from  14  drop  to  5 drops  of  tincture  of  belladonna  before  going  to 
bed.  Five  drops  is  the  dose  for  an  adult. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Third  dilution  of  Belladonna;  third  trituration 
of  Nux  Vomica;  and  the  second  dilution  of  Equisetum. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Dandelion  or  Cherry  Bark. — Have  the  child  drink  freely  of  tea  made 
from  either  dandelion  root  or  cherry  bark. 

2.  Isinglass. — The  following  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  bed  wetting. 
Boil  a roll  of  isinglass  (long  staple)  in  a pint  of  water  until  dissolved.  Add 
a pint  of  sweet  milk,  bring  to  a boil,  and  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar.  If  made 
properly  it  looks  like  custard.  Grate  a little  nutmeg  upon  it.  The  dose  for 
a grown  person  is  a tumblerful  3 times  a day.  Give  to  children  in  proportion 
to  age. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM 


HEADACHES. 

There  are  dififerent  kinds  of  headaches  arising  from  different  causes  and 
we  will  treat  each  kind  separately.  There  is  the  stomach  sick  headache,  the 
bilious  sick  headache,  the  nervous,  the  neuralgic  and  the  catarrhal  headache. 
Each  must  be  treated  from  the  standpoint  of  original  cause  if  you  expect  a 
real  cure.  Headaches  may  be  caused  by  disorders  of  the  stomach,  bowels, 
kidneys,  liver  or  nerves  and  also  by  catarrh,  weak  eyes  and  female  troubles. 
First  find  out  the  CAUSE  of  your  headache  and  then  treat  that. 

SICK  HEADACHE. 

Migraine — Hemicrariia. 

Causes. — Women  and  nervous  people  most  frequently  suffer  with  this 
ailment.  It  may  be  caused  by  womb  and  ovarian  diseases  and  is  frequently 
hereditary.  It  may  also  arise  from  disorders  of  the  stomach,  bowels,  liver 
or  kidneys. 

Symptoms. — Every  one  knows  the  symptoms  of  sick  headache.  It  usually 
starts  in  the  morning  and  lasts  all  day  and  sometimes  even  for  three  or  four 
days.  It  may  start  in  the  back  of  the  head  and  go  to  the  front  and  settle 
in  or  above  one  eye  or  even  on  both  sides.  It  may  cause  one  to  see  double 
or  to  become  partially  blind.  There  is  often  a wave  of  sick  feeling  that 
goes  from  the  head  to  the  stomach  or  from  the  stomach  to  the  head.  Some- 
times, one  cannot  bear  any  noise.  After  a time  the  person  feels  sick  at  the 
stomach  and  gets  worse  and  then  there  is  vomiting  of  a sour  vomit  and  finally 
there  may  be  bile  present  in  the  vomited  material.  The  vomiting  gives  re- 
lief if  the  stomach  is  full  of  food  but  sometimes  there  is  no  vomiting.  The 
urine  may  be  scanty. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  stomach,  liver,  bowels  and  kidneys  working 
well. 

Stomach  and  Bowels. — Have  at  least  one  passage  from  the  bowels  every 
day  because  constipation  is  the  cause  of  a great  many  sick  headaches.  Avoid 
rich  greasy  foods  such  as  gravies,  soups,  fried  eggs,  fried  potatoes,  fried 
meats,  pork,  sausage,  liverwurst,  pies  and  cakes.  Puddings,  fresh  bread,  hot 
biscuits,  preserves  and  too  much  butter  all  cause  sick  headaches. 

Treatment  for  Kidneys. — If  the  urine  is  not  right  or  appears  too  thin 
give  acetate,  bitrate  or  bi-tartrate  of  potash  in  5 or  10-grain  doses  with  con- 
siderable water.  Give  three  or  four  times  daily.  The  urine  generally  has  no 
color  as  there  are  not  enough  solids  cast  off.  This  kind  of  urine  is  also  seen 
in  nervous  headache. 

Treatment  for  the  Liver. — If  the  liver  is  persistently  inactive  take  calomel, 
blue  mass  or  podophyllin.  Many  such  cases  do  well  if  the  patient  takes  5 
or  10  grains  of  blue  mass  every  week  or  10  days  and  follows  this  with  salts 
in  6 or  7 hours  or  sooner. 

Secure  plenty  of  rest  and  sleep  and  live  an  outdoor  life  as  much  as  pos- 

187 


188 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


sible,  for  even  with  the  best  care  and  dieting  sick  headaches  sometimes 
come  but,  with  proper  diet  and  living,  they  will  come  less  frequently  and 
not  be  so  severe. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Hunyadi  water  taken  hot  and  in  sips  before 
breakfast  will  often  regulate  the  bowels  and  prevent  an  attack.  For  the 
terrible  pain  use  phenacetin  or  acetanilid  in  5-grain  doses.  The  second  dose 
can  be  taken  an  hour  after  the  first.  Both  of  these  remedies  are  hard  on 
the  heart  and  care  must  be  exercised  in  their  use.  The  following  prescrip- 
tion is  a good  one.  Citrate  of  caffeine,  t/o  dram  ; phenacetin,  1 dram ; bicar- 
bonate of  soda,  1 dram ; and  aromatic  powder,  12  grains ; mix  thoroughly  and 
make  12  powders.  Take  one  every  1 to  3 hours.  Sometimes  it  is  well  to 
produce  vomiting,  especially  if  you  can  do  so  by  taking  a little  salt  water. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — I have  been  very  successful  in  treating  head- 
aches with  homeopathic  medicines  and  as  this  is  a very  common  ailment  I 
will  give  the  homeopathic  treatment  a little  more  fully  than  I have  for  some 
other  diseases. 

Put  3 drops  of  the  tincture  of  blood  root  into  half  a glass  of  water  and 
take  2 teaspoonfuls  of  the  solution  every  15  minutes  until  relieved.  However, 
I like  the  homeopathic  form  of  the  blood  root  the  better.  Put  10  drops  of 
the  first  dilution  of  Blood  Root  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoon- 
fuls every  fifteen  minutes  until  relieved.  Blood  ,root  is  especially  good  when 
the  pain  begins  on  the  right  side  of  the  neck  and  passes  forward  and  settles 
above  the  right  eye  and  you  have  a sick  stomach. 

If  there  is  no  sickness  at  the  stomach  but  the  head  is  bent  forward  and  it 
feels  as  though  the  brain  would  fall  out  of  the  forehead,  then  Bryonia  is  the 
medicine  to  use.  Put  10  or  15  drops  of  the  second  dilution  of  Bryonia  into 
half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every  15  minutes  until  relieved. 

If  there  is  a dull  frontal  sick  headache  with  persistent  and  continued 
constipation,  so-called  “ drink  headache,”  then  use  the  third  trituration  of 
Nux  Vomica.  If  the  tincture  of  Nux  Vomica  is  used,  from  1 to  5 drops 
should  be  given  at  a dose. 

BILIOUS  SICK  HEADACHE. 

Cause. — This  is  caused  by  fat,  greasy  foods  or  by  the  presence  of  men- 
struation. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Iris,  or  blue  flag,  is  the  treatment  for  this. 
Prepare  it  the  same  as  the  blood  root  is  prepared  for  stomach  sick  headache 
and  give  in  the  same  way.  The  blood  root  is  for  stomach  sick  headache  and 
the  blue  flag  for  bilious  sick  headache.  If  you  are  not  sure  which  you  have  it  is 
well  to  alternate  these  two  medicines  every  ten  minutes.  This  is  a very 
effective  treatment.  If  the  headache  is  due  to  the  presence  of  menstruation 
the  third  dilution  of  Pulsatilla  is  good,  especially  for  blondes.  Put  10  or  15 
drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every  half  hour  until 
relieved. 


NEURALGIC  HEADACHE. 

While  the  term  “ neuralgic  headache  ” is  not  technically  correct  we  will 
use  it  as  it  is  best  understood  in  this  way.  It  is  not  due  to  other  diseases  but 
it  just  seems  to  “ come  on.”  Every  one  knows  the  symptoms.  The  pain 
is  sometimes  light  and  again  it  is  quite  severe.  It  is  usually  one-sided  and 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


189 


is  frequently  caused  by  taking  cold  in  a hollow  tooth.  It  is  well  to  tone  up 
the  system  with  good  tonics. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Spigelia,  or  pink  root,  is  a good  remedy  and 
especially  when  it  is  on  the  left  side.  Put  10  or  15  drops  of  the  second 
dilution  of  Spigelia  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every 
15  minutes  until  relieved. 

When  it  is  periodic  and  comes  on  at  regular  hours ; is  more  in  the  face ; 
and  the  patient  is  hot,  restless  and  thirsty  and  a little  water  satisfies  the 
thirst;  then  the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum  is  the  medicine  to  use. 

For  congestive  headache  when  the  head  is  throbbing  and  the  eyes  are 
red  and  sore  and  cannot  bear  the  light,  use  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna. 
Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every 
15  minutes  until  relieved.  The  Allopathic  treatment  and  Nursing  givem  under 
“ Nervous  Headache  will  also  apply  here. 

NERVOUS  HEADACHE. 

Causes. — Nervous  headache  is  a very  common  trouble  and  may  be  caused 
by  over-doing  or  by  excitement.  It  is  common  in  school  children.  Weak  eyes 
are  the  cause  when  glasses  are  needed  or  when  poorly  fitted  glasses  are 
worn.  Poor  health,  worry,  trouble  and  want  of  sleep  are  some  of  the  many 
causes. 

Symptoms. — The  common  cry,  “ Pm  so  nervous  I can’t  stand  it,”  tells 
the  tale.  The  head  feels  so  big  and  heavy  that  you  can  scarcely  hold  it  up. 
You  may  be  sleepy;  or,  on  the  other  hand,  you  may  be  sleepless.  Some- 
times a good  restful  sleep  seems  to  do  a world  of  good.  Some  cases  are  re- 
lieved by  the  passing  of  a considerable  quantity  of  light-colored  urine.  The 
arms  and  legs  are  heavy  and  there  is  a desire  to  be  quiet.  Often  the  legs 
are  so-  weak  that  it  is  painful  to  walk. 

TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — The  Allopathic  prescription  given  in  treating  sick 
headache  is  also  good  for  nervous  headache. 

Give  from  10  to  15  grains  of  bromide  of  potash.  This  may  be  re- 
peated each  half  hour  until  3 doses  have  been  taken. 

One  teaspoonful  of  tincture  of  hops  is  good  when  given  every  3 hours. 

A 5-grain  tablet  of  either  acetanilid  or  antikammia  may  be  taken  and 
repeated  in  2 hours.  These  are  good  remedies  but  are  hard  on  the  heart 
and  should  be  used  carefully. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — When  you  are  very  nervous  use  the  first  di- 
lution of  Gelsemium.  Put  5 to  10  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and 
take  2 teaspoonfuls  at  a dose.  Repeat  every  15  minutes  for  4 doses,  then 
every  hour. 

The  third  dilution  of  Belladonna  is  especially  good  when  the  head  beats 
and  throbs.  Prepare  and  give  the  same  as  the  Gelsemium. 

The  second  dilution  of  Coffea  prepared  and  given  in  the  same  way  is 
good  when  it  feels  as  though  a nail  had  been  driven  into  the  side  of  the  head. 

The  third  trituration  of  Nux  Vomica  is  good  for  those  living  a sedentary 
life  and  troubled  with  constipation. 

The  sixth  trituration  of  Sepia  is  good  for  headache  in  delicate  and  sensi- 
tive women,  especially  brunettes,  when  it  comes  with  scanty  menstruation. 

For  the  headache,  when  the  menstruation  is  very  profuse  and  too  fre- 
quent, give  the  first  dilution  of  Platina.  Give  the  same  as  the  Gelsemium. 

Natrum  Mur.  is  used  when  there  are  headaches  from  over  study. 


190 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Nursing  and  Diet. — Spend  all  the  time  possible  out  of  doors.  I have 
had  a number  of  patients  tell  me  that  the  work  of  taking  care  of  a horse 
has  seemed  to  benefit  them  most.  No  doubt  this  was  partly  due  to  the 
exercise.  When  suffering  with  either  nervous  or  neuralgic  headache,  bathing 
the  head  with  warm  water  and  at  the  same  time  rubbing  the  head  with  the 
hands  often  quiets  the  patient.  Sometimes,  especially  when  the  head  beats 
hard,  the  application  of  cold  cloths  to  the  head  will  give  relief.  A warm 
foot  bath  is  then  good,  also,  as  it  brings  the  blood  to  the  extremities  and  re- 
lieves the  congestion  in-  the  head.  Sometimes  a mustard  plaster  applied  to 
the  back  of  the  neck  is  good.  It  is  well  to  add  the  white  of  an  egg  to  the 
mustard  to  prevent  blistering. 

It  is  well  to  place  the  patient  in  a rather  dark  room  where  it  is  quiet 
and  then  a strong,  healthy,  sympathetic  person  should  rub  the  head  with 
the  hands.  In  some  cases  this  does  much  good.  The  patient  needs  quiet, 
rest  and  sleep  during  an  attack  but  at  other  times  should  have  fresh  air  and 
exercise.  The  system  generally  needs  building  up.  Sometimes  these  head- 
aches are  due  to  womb  troubles  and  then  these  troubles  should  be  attended  to. 
Headache  powders  and  tablets  relieve  the  pain  but  they  are  injurious  and  some- 
times dangerous.  They  are  hard  on  both  the  nerves  and  the  heart  and  in 
time  will  injure  any  one. 

CATARRHAL  HEADACHE. 

Causes. — This  is  caused  by  inflammations  due  to  catarrhal  conditions  of 
the  passages  of  the  head.  There  are  often  growths  in  the  nose  and  throat  that 
need  attention. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  pain  and  inflammation  extends  from  the  nose  pas- 
sages to  the  openings  in  the  skull  above  the  eyes. 

Treatment. — Treat  the  catarrh.  Frequently  there  are  growths  in  the  nose 
and  throat  that  need  to  be  removed. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  HEADACHES. 

1.  Nervous  Headache. — Apply  a mustard  plaster  to  the  temples  or  back 
of  the  neck. 

2.  Sick  Headache. — Add  a teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  to  2 gills  of  warm 
water.  Repeat  this  dose  every  15  minutes.  Hundreds  of  cases  of  sick  head- 
ache are  cured  with  this  simple  remedy.  Let  it  become  more  generally  known 
and  there  will  be  much  less  suffering  from  this  sickness. 

3.  Congestive  Headache. — If  the  headache  is  caused  by  congestion  of 
blood  in  the  head,  bathe  the  head  with  vinegar  and  cold  water  and  the  feet 
with  warm  water.  Bathe  the  temples  and  -forehead  with  either  warm  or  cold 
water  as  desired. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  relieves  the  congestion  by  drawing  the 
blood  away  from  the  head. 

4.  Headache  with  Rheumatism. — For  this  use  the  following  liniment. 
Take  3 ounces  of  saltpeter,  1 quart  of  brandy,  2 ounces  of  camphor,  and 
2 gills  of  spirits  of  turpentine.  Wet  a flannel  with  this  liniment  and  apply 
to  the  head. 

5.  Fleadache  from  Constipation. — Take  Y2  ounce  each  of  mandrake  or 
May  apple  root,  blue  flag  root,  golden  seal  root,  prickly  ash  bark  and  yellow 
puccoon  and  add  g’iii  of  beef’s  gall  and  % pint  of  whiskey.  Let  stand  for 
two  weeks  and  take  a teaspoonful  2 or  3 times  a day. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


191 


6.  Sour  Stomach  with  Sick  Headache. — When  there  is  acidity  of  the 
stomach  v/ith  sick  headache  add  2 teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  willow  charcoal 
to  one-half  teacupful  of  soda  water  (baking  soda)  and  take  at  one  dose. 

7.  Sick  Headache. — Have  the  patient  drink  sage  or  pennyroyal  tea  and 
give  some  mild  cathartic  after  the  patient  has  been  made  to  vomit. 

8.  Gas  on  Stomach  in  Sick  Headache. — To  half  a glass  of  water  add  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  charcoal  and  drink  for  sick  headache.  This  corrects 
the  stomach  which  is  the  seat  of  the  trouble. 

9.  Nervous  Headache. — This  is  often  instantly  relieved  by  shampooing 
the  head  with  a quart  of  cold  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a dessert 
spoonful  of  soda. 

10.  Sick  Headache. — Bathe  the  head  with  cool  water.  , 

11.  Brown  Paper  and  Camphor. — Saturate  brown  paper  with  camphor, 
apply  to  the  head  and  bind  on  with  a bandage.  Repeat  every  few  minutes 
while  the  patient  is  lying  down. 

12.  Sick  Headache. — Drink  a cup  of  coffee  to  which  has  been  added 
the  juice  of  a lemon  or  2 tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

13.  Rochelle  Salts. — Take  a teaspoonful  of  rochelle  salts  every  other 
night  upon  retiring. 

14.  Hot  and  Cold  Water. — Apply  cold  water  to  the  head  when  it 
feels  good  and  warm  applications  to  the  feet,  particularly  when  they  are  cold. 

15.  Mustard. — Take  % teaspoonful  of  whole  grains  of  mustard  inter- 
nally and  use  hot  applications  on  the  forehead  and  back  of  the  neck. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — The  mustard  is  to  be  taken  when  vomiting  is 
desired.  The  hot  applications  are  counter-irritants. 

16.  Nervous  Headache. — Mix  7 ounces  of  valerian  root,  5 ounces  of 
licorice  root,  1 ounce  of  oil  of  anise,  1 dram  of  camphor  gum  and  IV2  pints 
of  alcohol.  Take  from  1 to  3 teaspoonfuls  every  15  minutes  until  relieved. 

NEURALGIA. 

Neuralgia  is  a painful  affection  of  the  nerves.  Every  one  who  has  had 
it  will  at  least  testify  as  to  the  painful  part.  We  will  speak  of  several  types  of 
neuralgia. 

Neuralgia  of  the  Face — Tri-Facial  Neuralgia — Tic-Douloureux — Spas- 
modic Neuralgia  of  the  Face — Prosopalgia. — All  the  branches  of  the  tri-facial 
nerve  are  seldom  affected  at  the  same  time.  There  are  terrible  pains  in  the 
face  with  jerkings  and  twitchings.  The  pain  radiates  in  the  region  of  the  ear, 
along  the  lower  jaw.  Pain  is  also  especially  noticeable  along  the  upper  teeth. 
Eating  and  speaking  may  be  painful.  Sores  sometimes  occur  on  the  lips 
or  eye.  Some  of  the  forms  of  face  neuralgia  are  of  frightful  intensity  and 
the  repeated  attacks  make  the  patient’s  life  almost  unbearable.  Chronic 
neuralgia  is  hard  to  cure. 

Neuralgia  of  the  Back  of  Head  and  Neck — Cervico-occipital  Neuralgia. — 
This  is  neuralgia  of  the  back  of  the  head  and  neck.  The  painful  point  is 
about  half  way  between  the  ear  and  the  first  cervical  vertebra.  It  hurts 
to  move  the  neck.  Sometimes  cold  is  the  cause  of  this. 

Neuralgia  of  Neck  and  Shoulder — Cervico-brachial  Neuralgia. — This  is 
neuralgia  of  the  neck  and  shoulder.  The  pain  is  in  the  deltoid  muscle  run- 
ning from  the  shoulder  to  the  elbow. 

Neuralgia  Underneath  the  Ribs — Intercostal  Neuralgia. — The  pain  seems 
to  lie  underneath  the  ribs.  Next  to  tic-douloureux  this  is  the  most  important 


19^ 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


form  of  neuralgia.  It  is  more  common  in  women  than  in  men  and  is  very 
common  in  cases  of  hysteria.  (Home  remedies  for  “ Stitch  in  the  Side  ” will 
be  found  under  “ Neuritis.”) 

Neuralgia  of  the  Lower  Part  of  the  Spine — Coccydynia. — This  is  pain  in 
the  coccyx  or  lower  part  of  the  spinal  column.  It  is  most  common  in  women 
and  is  made  worse  by  sitting  down.  It  may  be  very  severe  and  the  bone 
may  have  to  be  removed. 

Neuralgia  of  the  Heel  and  Foot. — There  may  also  be  neuralgia  in  the 
heel  and  foot. 

TREATMENT. — Build  up  the  system  and  regulate  the  mode  of  life. 
Change  of  air  is  sometimes  good.  A strict  vegetable  diet  is  sometimes  neces- 
sary. Live  an  out  of  door  life  as  much  as  possible  and  take  plenty  of  exercise. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Arsenic,  quinine,  strychnine  and  cod  liver  oil 
are  good.  For  the  pain  give  antipyrin  or  phenacetin.  Give  strychnine  fo-r 
facial  neuralgia. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Belladonna,  third  dilution ; Spigelia,  second 
dilution ; Gelsemium,  first  dilution ; Arsenicum,  third  trituration ; and  China, 
second  dilution.  For  intercostal  neuralgia  use  Ranunculus.  These  are  all 
good.  (For  preparation  and  doses  see  “ Flomeopathic  Medicines”  in  the 
Nursing  Department.) 

PEOPLE’S  FIOME  REMEDIES  FOR  NEURALGIA  AND  NERVOUS 
TROUBLES.— 

1.  Thistle  Tea. — A tea  made  from  the  common  field  or  bull  thistle  is 
considered  by  the  Germans  a sure  and  permanent  cure  for  neuralgia.  Th^ 
tea  is  made  by  pressing  a vessel  full  of  the  leaves,  filling  with  water,  and 
boiling  down  one-half.  A wineglassful  of  this  may  be  taken  internally 
twice  a day.  In  severe  cases  a poultice  of  the  bruised  leaves  may  also  be 
applied  to  the  affected  parts.  Many  remarkable  and  lasting  cures  have  been 
effected  by  this  simple  remedy.  In  fact,  it  has  never  been  known  to  fail. 

2.  Sweating  Treatment. — The  following  will  be  found  almost  a sure 
cure  for  neuralgia.  Bathe  the  feet  for  half  an  hour  in  hot  mustard  water 
and  at  the  same  time  drink  smartweed  tea ; or,  ginger  tea  will  do.  Then  go 
to  bed  and  take  a sweat  for  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  After  the 
sweat  sponge  the  body  with  warm  water,  dry,  and  rub  briskly  with  the  hands. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  is  good  for  neuralgia  which  comes  from 
a cold  or  from  inflammation. 

3.  Steaming  with  Vinegar. — Wrap^  a cloth  wrung  out  of  vinegar  around 
a hot  brick  or  flatiron  and  apply  to  the  face  until  it  is  thoroughly  steamed. 
This  is  an  efifective  remedy  used  by  a celebrated  French  physician  for 
neuralgia. 

4.  Horse-radish. — Horse-radish  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  neuralgia. 
Grate  the  horse-radish  and  mix  it  with  vinegar  the  same  as  when  it  is 
intended  for  the  table.  Apply  this  to  the  temple  when  the  neuralgia  is  in 
the  face  and  to  the  wrist  when  it  is  in  the  arm  or  shoulder. 

5.  Burnt  Sugar. — Burn  some  sugar  on  a hot  stove  and  inhale  the  fumes. 

6.  Hot  Salt  and  Ashes. — Mix  salt  and  ashes,  heat  well,  put  into  a salt 
bag  and  apply  to  the  parts  affected  with  neuralgia. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Dry  heat  is  good  in  some  cases  of  neuralgia. 

7.  Salt  and  Alum. — If  the  neuralgia  is  in  the  jaw,  put  equal  parts  of 
pulverized  salt  and  alum  on  a wet  piece  of  cloth  and  rub  upon  the  teeth. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


193 


8.  Lemon  Juice. — Squeeze  the  juice  of  a lemon  into  a tumblerful  of 
water  and  take  two  or  three  mouthfuls  every  hour  for  neuralgia. 

9.  Mustard. — Mustard  plasters  sometimes  help  neuralgia. 

10.  Hops. — Hot  fomentations  of  hops  generally  give  relief  from  neu- 
ralgia. 

11.  Lobelia  and  Salt. — Boil  a small  handful  of  lobelia  in  half  a pint  of 
water,  strain,  and  add  half  a teaspoonful  of  salt.  Wring  cloths  out  of  the 
liquid  as  hot  as  possible  and  apply  to  the  affected  parts.  Change  as  rapidly 
as  it  cools.  This  is  for  neuralgia. 

12.  Oil  of  Peppermint. — “ Paint  the  affected  parts  with  oil  of  pepper- 
mint,” writes  a lady  who  has  tried  it  for  neuralgia. 

13.  Mustard,  Ginger,  Cloves,  Cinnamon  and  Vinegar. — Make  a poultice 
of  a tablespoonful  of  ground  mustard,  a little  ginger,  cloves,  and  cinnamon; 
mix  these  with  vinegar.  Place  between  cheese  cloth  and  apply  to  the  parts 
affected  with  neuralgia.  Hold  warm  cloths  on  but  do  not  blister.  Mustard 
alone  is  also  good. 

14.  Liniment  for  Neuralgia. — Take  equal  parts  of  camphor,  chloroform 
and  olive  oil.  “ I have  known  this  to  succeed  in  many  cases,”  writes  a lady 
from  Wichita,  Kansas. 

15.  Peppermint  and  Benzoin. — A lady  in  Birmingham,  Alabama,  says 
the  following  remedy  will  work  like  a charm  in  case  of  neuralgia.  Apply 
equal  parts  of  benzoin  and  peppermint  oil  directly  to  the  parts ; or,  you  can 
wring  a cloth  out  of  hot  water,  put  the  medicine  on  this  and  then  apply. 

16.  Wormwood  and  Vinegar. — Boil  wormwood  in  vinegar  and  apply  for 
neuralgia. 

17.  Neuralgia  of  the  Heart. — Give  spirits  and  water  as  hot  and  as  strong 
as  it  can  be  swallowed  and  apply  a hot  mustard  poultice  to  the  chest.  If 
there  is  sour  stomach  give  a teaspoonful  of  soda  in  half  a glass  of  water;  or,  if 
there  is  gas  on  the  stomach  give  anise  or  peppermint  water.  If  the  stomach  is 
full  of  food  give  a tablespoonful  of  mustard  in  a teacupful  of  warm  water 
to  produce  vomiting. 

18.  Blue  Cohosh. — Give  the  tincture  of  blue  cohosh.  The  dose  is 'from 
1/2  to  1 dram. 

19.  Black  Cohosh  and  Skullcap. — For  St.  Vitus’  Dance  give  a teaspoon- 
ful of  the  powdered  root  of  black  cohosh  three  times  a day.  The  extract 
combined  with  the  extract  of  skullcap  is  better.  This  is  good  for  nervous 
troubles  caused  by  womb  diseases. 

20.  Virgin’s  Bower. — For  nervous  troubles  accompanying  womb  diseases 
give  clematis  virginiana,  or  virgin’s  bower.  Place  2 drams  of  the  dried  leaf 
in  a cup  filled  with  hot  water;  cover;  and  after  it  is  cool,  strain,  sweeten,  and 
drink  at  once. 

21.  Yellow  Lady’s  Slipper  for  St.  Vitus’  Dance,  Nervous  Headache  and 
Hysteria. — For  these  troubles  use  yellow  lady’s  slipper.  The  dose  of  the  tea 
is  from  1 to  4 ounces ; of  the  best  alcoholic  extract,  10  to  20  grains ; and  of 
the  powdered  root,  1 dram  in  hot  water.  Repeat  as  often  as  necessary, 
say  every  1 to  3 hours. 

22.  Catnip,  Skullcap  and  Yellow  Lady’s  Slipper. — For  nervous  headache 
or  sick  headache  not  due  to  an  acid  stomach  the  following  will  be  found  good. 
Take  ounce  of  the  powder  of  each  of  catnip,  skullcap  and  yellow  lady’s 
slipper;  pour  on  a pint  of  boiling  water  and  steep  from  10  to  20  minutes. 
Drink  while  warm.  The  dose  is  1 ounce  every  % to  4 hours  as  needed. 

18 


104 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


23.  Tincture  of  Hops. — The  tincture  of  hops  is  good  for  nervousness  and 
wakefulness.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  3 drams.  For  nervous  headache  give  15 
drops  every  half  hour. 

24.  St.  Johnswort.— -Make  a tea  of  St.  Johnswort  and  give  1 to  2 ounces 
four  times  daily. 

25.  Motherwort,  Etc. — Make  a decoction  of  motherwort  and  give  from  2 
to  4 ounces  every  1 to  4 hours.  This  is  good  for  hysteria  and  nervous  troubles 
generally.  The  fluid  extracts  of  catnip,  valerian,  or  skullcap  are  good  for 
headache,  hysteria  and  nervousness. 

26.  Skullcap. — A tea  made  from  skullcap  is  good  for  nervous  troubles. 
The  tea  may  be  drank  freely.  It  is  good  for  nervous,  teething  children  and 
even  for  delirium  tremens. 

27.  Skunk  Cabbage. — Skunk  cabbage  is  a good  remedy.  The  dose  of 
the  tincture  is  1 dram.. 

28.  Cramp  Bark,  Etc. — Take  2 ounces  of  high  cranberry,  or  cramp  bark; 
1 ounce  each  of  skullcap  and  skunk  cabbage ; i/o  ounce  of  cloves ; and  2 drams 
of  capsicum.  Coarsely  bruise  and  add  to  them  2 quarts  of  good  sherry  or 
native  wine.  The  dose  is  1 to  2 ounces,  3 times  a day.  Small  doses  may  be 
taken  oftener.  Good  for  cramps  of  muscles,  spasms,  hysteria,  nervousness  and 
asthma,  and  is  especially  good  during  pregnancy. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Most  cases  of  neuralgia  of  the  jaw,  face  and  temple 
are  produced  by  bad  teeth. 

HYSTERIA. 

Description. — This  is  a state  in  which  ideas  control  the  body  and  pro- 
duce morbid  changes  in  its  functions. 

Causes. — The  disease  is  more  common  in  women  and  usually  first  appears 
about  the  time  of  puberty  but  it  may  continue  for  years.  Heredity  and  the 
training  of  the  child  have  much  to  do  with  it.  Uncontrolled  children  or 
children  who  are  allowed  to  have  their  own  way  too  much  while  growing  up 
are  especially  likely  to  have  hysteria.  Over-study  may  also  cause  it  as  may 
disorders  of  the  ovaries  and  womb. 

SYMPTOMS.— 

Convulsive  Form. — It  may  come  on  suddenly  or  it  may  be  preceded  by 
alternate  laughing  and  crying  or  a sense  of  tightness  about  the  neck  or  feel- 
ings as  of  a ball  rising  in  the  throat.  Sometimes  the  patient  suddenly  falls  over 
and  is  unconscious  but  the  fall  is  rather  easy.  Unconsciousness  may  not  last 
long. 

Major  Forms. — The  attack  is  begun  by  foolish  behavior,  excitement,  dys- 
peptic symptoms,  gas  in  the  bowels,  frequent  passing  of  urine,  over-sensitive- 
ness of  the  body,  feeling  as  of  a ball  in  the  throat,  sensation  of  oppression, 
attacks  like  true  epilepsy,  and  emotional  twisting.  The  patient  tells  with 
great  soberness  and  earnestness  about  imagined  ecstacies,  visions,  voices, 
and  conversations.  She  imagines  things  and  even  makes  very  serious  charges 
against  people.  The  convulsions  may  follow  each  other  for  days  at  a time. 
After  the  attack  the  patient  may  sink  into  a trance  or  lethargy. 
TREATMENT.— 

Preventive  Treatment. — Raise  your  children  out  of  doors  and  let  them 
have  lots  of  exercise.  Don’t  let  the  girls  over-study  during  puberty.  Let 
there  be  less  of  social  and  excitable  life.  Don’t  push  them  forward  so  much 
to  “ show  off.”  See  that  they  have  plenty  of  sleep,  rest,  and  hearty,  but  not 
rich,  food.  Avoid  stimulants  like  strong  coffee,  teas  and  wines.  See  that 
they  have  g«ood  warm  dresses  and  underwear  and  that  they  do  not  lace  tightly. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


19o 


Keep  them  out  of  doors.  If  need  be,  send  them  to  a farm  where  they  will 
have  outdoor  life  and  sunshine  and  where  they  can  play  in  the  barns  and  fields 
and  smell  the  new-mown  hay. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Have  the  patient  smell  of  amyl.  Break  a capsule 
into  a handkerchief  for  this  purpose.  If  there  is  anemia  (poor  blood)  ^ive 
tonics  such  as  iron  or  arsenic. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Pulsatilla,  third  dilution  ; Gelsemium,  first  di- 
lution; Sepia,  sixth  trituration  or  Natrum  Mur.,  thirtieth  trituration.  Pulsa- 
tilla is  especially  good  for  blondes  and  Sepia  for  brunettes.  Gelsemium  is 
for  nervousness.  (For  doses  and  preparation  see  “ Homeopathic  Medicines” 
in  Nursing  Department.) 

PEOPLE\S  HOME  REMEDIES.— (Also  see  “ Home  Remedies  for  Neural- 
gia and  Nervous  Troubles.”) 

1.  Tonics. — For  hysteria  give  tonics  of  gentian,  columbo,  cinchona  or 
golden  seal. 

2.  Tonic  Cordial  for  Hysteria. — Take  1 pound  of  poplar  bark  and  8 
ounces  each  of  dogwood  bark  and  the  bark  of  the  root  of  bayberry.  These 
should  all  be  made  fine  and  a sufficient  quantity  of  water  added.  Boil  down 
to  2 gallons ; strain ; and  add  7 pounds  of  sugar,  8 ounces  of  pulverized  peach 
kernels  and  1 gallon  of  French  brandy  and  then  bottle  for  use.  The  dose  is 
half  a wineglassful  3 or  4 times  a day. 

NERVOUS  EXHAUSTION. 

Neurasthenia. 

Causes. — Long  continued  mental  strain,  worry,  and,  in  women,  excessive 
social  duties,  are  causes  of  nervous  exhaustion.  It  may  also  follow  weaken- 
ing diseases. 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  are  varied.  In  some  cases  the  mental  con- 
dition of  the  patient  suffers  chiefly  and  symptoms  may  vary  from  mere  irritable 
temper  to  great  mental  depression  and  even  to  mental  weakness,  melancholia 
and  insanity.  Sometimes  there  is  persistent  sleeplessness.  In  other  cases 
the  patient  has  stomach  and  bowel  troubles.  The  heart  is  lacking  in  nerve 
supply  and  there  is  palpitation,  vertigo,  and  sometimes  fainting.  There  are 
signs  of  hysteria,  numbness,  tingling  and  over-sensitiveness  in  painful  parts. 

The  degree  of  the  recovery  depends  upon  the  ability  of  the  doctor  to  get 
the  patient  away  from  the  causes  which  produced  the  condition  and  upon  the 
willingness  of  the  patient  to  follow  those  methods  of  life  which  Avill  re- 
establish his  nervous  balance  and  build  up  reserve  energy.  The  recoveiy 
also  depends  partly  upon  the  age  and  physical  condition  of  the  patient. 

TREATMENT. — There  is  not  much  medicine  needed.  The  homeopathic 
treatment  is  to  give  the  second  dilution  of  Gelsemium  regularly  for  a long- 
time. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — The  patient  must  have  absolute  mental  and  physical 
rest  and  freedom  from  all  worries.  Give  proper  feeding  and  keep  the  stomach, 
bowels  and  kidneys  in  good  working  order.  Do  not  over-do  in  any  way.  The 
patient  should  have  cheerful  rooms  with  plenty  of  sunshine  and  should  always 
have  pleasant,  cheerful  faces  about  him.  He  should  have  constant  encourage- 
ment. Relatives  and  friends  must  remember  that  this  is  not  a fancy  but  a 
real  disease.  I have  known  people  who  laughed  at  neurasthenics,  or  people 
suffering  from  nervous  exhaustion,  and  I have  later  seen  these  same  people 
in  the  same  condition.  Rest  and  encouragement  will  bring  most  cases 


196 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


throug^h.  Do  not  over-exert  when  you  are  getting  better  or  you  may  have  a 
relapse.  Walking  and  slow  driving  with  a safe  horse  and  good  company  are 
helpful  but  do  not  have  company  who  tire  you.  Most  people  are  ignorant  as 
to  what  to  do  or  say  to  persons  afflicted  with  this  disease.  So  many  people 
have  no  patience  and  should  be  kept  away  from  those  suffering  with  nervous 
exhaustion.  A general  change  of  scene  is  sometimes  beneficial. 

SLEEPLESSNESS. 

Insomnia. 

Causes. — Often  caused  by  nervousness  and  too  much  mental  work,  es- 
pecially at  night. 

TREATMENT.— 

“ What  to  Do.” — Get  away  from  excitement.  Go  to  the  country  and  be  out 
doors  doing  light  work  as  much  as  possible.  Tone  up  the  system.  Drink 
hop  tea  or  get  a hop  pillow  to  sleep  on.  Instead  of  the  hop  tea  you  can  take 
the  tincture  of  hops  in  15-drop  doses.  Sleeping  in  the  barn  on  the  hay  is 
often  conducive  to  sleep.  Some  people  need  big  pillows  and  some  need  none. 
Change  of  scene  and  work  is  generally  of  benefit.  People  who  engage  in  out- 
door work,  unless  they  work  too  hard,  are  generally  good  sleepers.  Keep 
the  head  cool  and  the  feet  warm. 

“ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  take  opiates.  Do  not  eat  much  at  night 
and,  on  the  other  hand,  do  not  go  to  bed  with  the  stomach  entirely  empty. 
Do  not  do  any  mental  work  at  night.  Do  not  talk  politics  or  religion  and  do 
not  get  excited  when  you  can  avoid  it. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — At  bed  time  take  1/100  grain  of  hyoscine.  From 
5 to  15-grain  doses  of  potassium  bromide  are  good  for  nervousness  and  over 
work.  The  tincture  of  valerian  is  good  for  nervousness.  Take  1 teaspoonful 
in  a glass  of  warm  water  or  milk  before  retiring. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  first  or  second  dilution  of  Gelsemium  is 
good  when  taken  half  an  hour  before  bed  time.  Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a 
glass  of  water  and  take  2 teaspoonfuls.  Or,  you  can  prepare  the  third  dilution 
of  the  same  medicine  in  the  same  way  and  take  two  teaspoonfuls  regularly 
every  3 hours  during  the  day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Onions. — Three  or  four  small  onions  eaten  just  before  going  to  bed 
have  a soothing  narcotic  effect  and  induce  sleep. 

2.  Cold  Water  Cloths. — Wet  a towel  in  cold  water  and  apply  to  the 
back  of  the  neck  and  lower  part  of  the  head  and  cover  with  a dry  towel.  This 
is  excellent  where  sleeplessness  is  the  result  of  an  overworked  and  congested 
brain. 

3.  Food  and  Mental  Exercises. — Eat  a few  bites  of  some  light  food. 
Recite  poetry  or  the  multiplication  table. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — The  food  draws  the  blood  to  the  stomach  and  thus 
relieves  the  congestion  of  the  brain. 

4.  Fresh  Air  and  Sunshine. — Like  all  other  afflictions  the  patient  needs 
quiet,  fresh  air  and  clean,  freshly  aired  bedding.  Be  out  doors  in  the  sunshine 
as  much  as  possible. 

5.  Hot  Water. — Drink  hot  water  three  times  a day  or  at  any  time  you 
are  thirsty  and  bathe  the  feet  in  hot  water  before  going  to  bed. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — The  hot  water  draws  the  blood  to  the  stomach 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


and  the  hot  foot  bath  draws  it  to  the  feet,  thus  the  blood  is  taken  away  from 
the  brain  and  the  congestion  is  relieved. 

6.  For  a Nervous  Babe. — Place  in  some  resting  position  and  gently  rub 
its  back  with  the  open  hand.  See  how  soon  the  little  one  is  quiet  or  asleep. 

FAINTING. — (See“  Accidents  and  Emergencies.”) 

HICCOUGH. — (See  “ Accidents  and  Emergencies.”) 

DIZZINESS  OR  VERTIGO.— (See  “Accidents  and  Emergencies.”) 

SCIATICA. 

Sciatic  Rheumatism. 

Description. — The  sciatic  nerve  runs  from  the  hip  down  the  back  part  of 
the  leg  and  branches  in  the  lower  part  of  the  leg  and  foot.  Sciatica  is  inflam- 
mation of  the  sciatic  nerve.  It  is  frequent  in  people  troubled  with  rheumatism 
or  gout  and  occurs  more  frequently  in  men. 

Causes. — Exposure  to  cold  when  wet  or  sweating  is  the  cause  though  it 
sometimes  seems  to  come  on  without  any  cause. 

Symptoms. — There  is  pain  in  the  hip  and  down  the  back  part  of  the 
thigh,  reaching  to  the  foot  and  radiating  over  it.  Often  the  pain  is  excru- 
ciating and  is  sometimes  accompanied  with  cramps. 

TREATMENT.— 

Rest  in  bed  and  if  it  is  bad  apply  a splint  to  the  leg.  Apply  fly  blisters 
to  the  painful  parts  and  sometimes  morphine  must  be  used.  Warm  baths  and 
mud  baths  are  also  good. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Use  salicylate  of  soda  in  5 to  10-grain  doses  3 
or  4 times  a day.  Fly  blisters  for  all  treatments.  Apply  leeches.  Rest  in 
bed.  • Alternate  hot  and  cold  water  upon  the  parts.  When  the  pain  is  confined 
to  a small  place  apply  fomentations  of  hops  and  vinegar. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — At  the  beginning  when  there  is  fever  give  the 
second  dilution  of  Aconite.  Rhus  Tox.,  sixth  dilution;  Colocynth,  second  di- 
lution ; Bryonia,  second  dilution ; and  the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum  are 
all  good.  (For  preparation  and  doses  see  “ Homeopathic  Medicines  in  Nurs- 
ing Department.) 


SUNSTROKE. 

Heat  Stroke — Isolation  or  Thermic  Fever — Coup  de  Soleil — Heat  Exhaustion. 

Description. — This  is  a condition  produced  by  exposure  to  excessive  heat. 
In  rare  cases  the  temperature  of  the  patient  is  below  normal  and  it  is  then 
called  “ heat  exhaustion.” 

Causes.- — As  stated  in  the  description,  it  is  caused  by  excessive  heat. 
Symptoms. — The  patient  may  be  struck  down  and  die  within  an  hour. 
This  form  occurs  chiefly  in  army  life.  In  the  early  stage  of  ordinary  cases 
there  is  a feeling  of  oppression  and  dizziness.  If  no  attention  is  paid  to  these 
symptoms  and  the  patient  does  nothing  to  relieve  the  heat,  sudden  un- 
consciousness comes  on.  sometimes  preceded  by  convulsions.  In  other 
cases  there  are  no  convulsions  but  there  is  deep  stupor  with  deep  breathing 
and  even  snoring.  The  face  is  at  first  livid  and  later  dark  and  the  large  blood- 
vessels of  the  neck  and  arms  are  swollen  with  blood.  The  temperature  quickly 
rises  very  high,  the  average  being  between  105  and  107  degrees.  The  pupils 


198 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


of  the  eyes  may  be  smaller  than  usual  or  they  may  be  very  much  enlargfed. 
If  the  fever  cannot  be  reduced  and  if  the  blood  cannot  be  drawn  away  from  the 
heart  and  lungs,  death  will  be  the  result  in  from  twelve  to  thirty-six  hours. 
When  the  patient  is  getting  better  he  sometimes  has  a relapse,  or  “ set  back,” 
so  that  the  greatest  caution  must  be  observed.  The  result  of  sunstroke  de- 
pends upon  the  height  and  persistency  of  the  fever.  Many  people  die  each 
year  from  sunstroke. 

TREATMENT.— 

Treatment  for  Heat  Exhaustion. — For  heat  exhaustion,  or  when  the  tem- 
perature is  too  low,  rub  the  patient  in  hot  water  and  after  the  bath  apply  hot 
applications  about  the  body.  Notice  that  this  is  the  treatment  only  when 
the  temperature  is  too  low. 

Emergency  Treatment  for  Sunstroke  or  “ What  to  Do.” — The  treatment 
must  be  bold  and  vigorous.  First,  reduce  the  temperature  by  applying  ice  or 
cold  water.  Strip  the  patient,  lay  him  on  a canvas  cot  and  then  direct  a 
stream  of  cold  water  upon  his  body,  from  a hose  if  possible.  Rub  actively 
and  vigorously  while  applying  the  water.  This  brings  the  blood  to  the 
surface  and  relieves  the  internal  organs  and  the  head.  Rub  thoroughly  and 
at  the  same  time  constantly  apply  cold  water  to  the  head.  If  convenient  the 
patient  may  be  put  into  a bath  tub  and  the  above  treatment  carried  out.  When 
the  temperature  begins  to  fall  see  that  it  does  not  fall  too  rapidly.  If  the  pa- 
tient is  robust  and  the  veins  are  swollen,  bleeding  may  be  of  benefit.  Then 
follow  with  a normal  salt  injection.  Have  the  patient  remain  in  bed  for 
several  days. 

Caution,  or  “ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  lose  time  but  get  to  work.  Do 
not  get  excited.  Do  not  give  alcohol. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — If  the  patient  is  constipated  give  citrate  of  mag- 
nesia in  4-drarn  doses  to  relieve  him.  If  he  is  unconscious  give  a hypodermic 
injection  of  1/G  grain  of  elaterium  for  the  bowels.  If  it  is  necessary  to  stimu- 
late give  strychnine  but  do  not  give  alcohol. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — In  connection  with  the  above  measures  you 
may  give  the  third  dilution  of  Glonoin.  Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a glass 
of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every  half  hour.  This  is  for  the  beating 
arteries  and  throbbing  head. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Essence  of  Ginger,  Cold  Water,  Etc. — Put  the  patient  in  a sitting 
position  and  pour  cold  water  freely  upon  the  head.  Into  half  a tumbler  of 
water  pour  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  essence  of  ginger  and  have  the 
patient  drink  it  quickly. 

FALLING  FITS. 

Epilepsy. 

Description. — This  is  an  affection  of  the  nervous  system  marked  by 
attacks  of  unconsciousness  either  with  or  without  convulsions. 

Symptoms. — A peculiar  feeling  called  the  “ aura  ” goes  over  the  patient 
just  before  the  attack  comes  on.  Then  he  utters  a peculiar  cry  or  scream. 
At  the  same  time,  in  a wide  spread  attack,  the  muscles  of  the  whole  body 
become  strongly  contracted  until  they  are  in  a stiff  spasm.  After  the  spasms 
relax  there  are  alternate  contractions  and  relaxations  which  throw  the  patient 
from  side  to  side.  He  usually  foams  at  the  mouth  and  sometimes  bites  his 
tongue.  The  face  changes  color  rapidly  and  finally  the  Hush  deepens  into  a 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


199 


livid  purple.  The  attack  lasts  about  two  minutes  and  is  a terrible  thing-  to 
see.  In  the  ordinary  form  there  is  little  danger  of  death.  The  patient  finally 
becomes  dumb  in  action  and  speech.  • 

TREATMENT. — Bromide  of  potassium  can  be  used  under  a doctor’s  di- 
rections. This  must  be  continued  for  months  and  years  and  continued  for 
three  years  after  the  patient  is  seemingly  cured. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Oxide  of  Zinc  and  Stramonium  Ointment. — A physician  who  has 
been  very  successful  in  curing  epilepsy  uses  oxide  of  zinc.  It  should  be  taken 
three  times  a day.  The  first  8 days  the  dose  is  i/o  grain ; then  take  1-grain 
doses  for  the  next  8 days  and  then  use  1V2  grains  until  cured.  It  is  web 
while  under  this  treatment  to  rub  the  spine  twice  a day  with  stramonium 
ointment.  The  dose  of  oxide  of  zinc  seldom  has  to  be  increased  above  .IV2 
grains. 

ST.  VITUS’  DANCE. 

Acute  Chorea — Sydenhams  Chorea. 

Description. — This  is  a disease  chiefly  affecting  children.  It  is  attended 
with  irregular  and  involuntary  contractions  or  twitchings  of  the  muscles  and 
these  twitchings  are  sometimes  limited  to  certain  muscles.  There  is  a remark- 
able liability  to  acute  endocarditis,  or  heart  disease.  Seventy-nine  per  cent, 
of  the  cases  are  females.  It  occurs  mostly  between  the  ages  of  5 and  15  years. 

Causes. — It  is  due  to  a run  down  condition  of  the  system. 

Symptoms. — In  a mild  case  the  speech  is  not  seriously  affected  but  the 
patient  is  restless,  can’t  sit  still,  has  “ fidgets  ” and  crying  spells  and  some- 
times night  terror.  The  patient  has  stomach  trouble,  anemia,  a changed 
disposition  and  is  cross  and  irritable.  In  a week  or  more  the  jerky  movements 
begin  and  the  patient  is  awkward  and  upsets  things  at  the  table,  etc. 

In  the  severe  form  the  movements  become  general  and  the  patient  cannot 
go  about  or  dress  himself.  The  speech  is  affected  and  sometimes  he  cannot 
talk  for  days.  It  usually  lasts  from  8 to  10  weeks  and  children  usually  re- 
cover. Chronic  chorea  sometimes  follows  the  acute  kind  but  it  is  a rare 
affection. 

TREATMENT.— 

“ What  to  Do.” — Allow  the  patient  to  have  rest  and  keep  him  from  worry 
and  excitement.  Keep  him  home  from  school.  Apply  a hot  pack  to  produce 
sleeping. 

“ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  allow  an  exceptionally  bright  child  to  over 
study  between  the  ages  of  5 and  15  years. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Give  iron  and  arsenic  if  there  is  anemia  (poor 
blood)  and  salicylates  if  the  child  is  rheumatic.  Arsenic  may  be  given  in  the 
form  of  Fowler’s  solution  of  arsenic.  For  a child  of  10  years  give  3 drops  3 
times  a day  and  gradually  increase.  1 drop  every  day,  until  some  puffiness 
appears  about  the  eyes,  then  stop  its  use. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — (jive  one  tablet  of  the  third  trituration  of  Ar- 
senicum. every  3 hours. 

If  the  patient  is  weak  from  a long  sickness  give  the  second  dilution  of 
China.  Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  take  a teaspoonful 
or  two  every  hour  to  three  hours. 

If  the  patient  has  menstrual  troubles,  prepare  and  give  the  third  dilution 
of  Pulsatilla  in  the  same  way. 


200 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  LIOME  REMEDIES.— (Also  see  “ Home  Remedies  for  Neural- 
gia and  Nervous  Troubles.”) 

1.  Lady’s  Slipper. — Make  a tea  of  Lady’s  slipper  and  give  from  1 to 
2 ounces,  4 times  a day. 

2.  Blue  Cohosh. — Make  a tea  of  blue  cohosh  and  give  3 or  4 times  a 
day.  This  is  especially  good  when  the  St.  Vitus’  dance  is  due  to  womb  or 
menstrual  troubles. 

3.  Skullcap. — Drink  freely  of  a tea  made  from  skullcap. 

4.  St.  Johns  wort. — Drink  a tea  made  from  St.  Johnswort.  This  should 
be  drank  several  times  a day. 

5.  Lettuce. — Eat  plenty  of  lettuce  when  afflicted  with  St.  Vitus’  dance- 

HEREDITARY  CHOREA  OR  ST.  VITUS’  DANCE. 

Huntington’s  Chorea. 

Description. — Fortunately,  this  affliction  is  rare.  It  is  characterized  by 
irregular  movements,  disturbed  speech  and  twitchings  of  the  face,  brow  and 
scalp. 

First  Symptoms. — There  are  twitchings  of  the  muscles  of  the  face,  head 
and  arms  and  there  are  also  gesticulations. 

Treatment. — It  is  very  hard  to  cure.  Live  an  out-of-door  life  and  take 
tonics  and  nerve  sedatives. 

APOPLEXY. 

Causes. — This  is  caused  by  brittle  arteries  which  break  because  of  theif 
filling  with  blood  or  becoming  congested  from  any  cause  such  as  excitement, 
over  work,  over  lifting,  over  eating  or  over  stimulation.  May  be  caused  by 
injuries. 

Symptoms. — There  is  sudden  dizziness,  faintness  and  disturbed  speech 
followed  by  coma  or  stupor.  The  face  becomes  flushed  and  dusky  or,  in  very 
severe  cases,  it  may  be  ashy  pale.  The  pulse,  which  is  slow  and  soft  at  first, 
becomes  full  and  bounding.  The  breathing  is  slow  and  irregular  and  is 
accompanied  with  snoring.  The  eyes  are  fixed  and  staring,  the  pupils  varying 
and  generally  unequal  in  size.  The  patient  may  have  convulsions.  He  may 
die  very  soon  or  he  may  partially  recover.  In  many  cases  paralysis  is  noticed 
when  he  regains  consciousness. 

TREATMENT.— 

Emergency  Remedy  or  “ What  to  Do.” — Place  the  patient  in  a lying 
position,  loosen  the  clothing,  raise  the  head  of  the  bed  and  apply  ice  or  cold 
water  to  the  head.  Give  a hot  mustard  bath.  If  the  tongue  draws  back,  put  a 
towel  or  handkerchief  over  it  and  hold  it  forward. 

Caution  or  “ What  Not  to  Do.” — Do  not  let  the  tongue  draw  back  in  the 
mouth  and  in  applying  water  to  the  head,  do  not  let  it  drip  into  the  mouth 
or  the  patient  m.ay  choke  to  death. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — In  addition  to  what  has  been  recommended  there  are 
other  things  you  can  do  for  the  patient.  As  before  directed,  in  applying  water 
to  the  head,  do  not  allow  it  to  drip  into  the  mouth  for  a few  drops  can  choke  a 
person  in  this  condition  as  he  is  unable  to  swallow.  Do  not  let  the  water 
drip  on  the  neck  or  other  parts  of  the  body.  If  you  have  no  ice  bag  you  must 
change  the  cold  water  cloths  often  to  keep  them  cold.  The  tongue  gets  very 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


201 


dry,  especially  when  the  mouth  is  open.  Moisten  it  often  but  be  careful  about 
getting-  water  into  the  mouth.  If  necessary  the  bowels  should  be  kept  open 
with  injections  or  with  salts.  Salts  can  only  be  given  after  he  has  recovered 
enough  to  swallow.  Usually  the  urine  must  be  drawn  and  especially  in  old 
persons.  It  may  dribble  away  but  that  will  not  be  enough.  If  the  patient 
is  continually  moving  his  hands  over  the  region  of  the  bladder  and  acts  as 
though  he  were  in  pain,  you  had  better  draw  the  urine  at  once.  This  applies 
to  any  disease. 

The  patient  must  have  quiet  and  rest.  Improvement  is  slow  in  this 
disease.  Never  talk  about  the  patient’s  condition  in  his  presence.  In  many 
cases  he  is  able  to  partially  understand  even  though  seemingly  unconscious. 
Bleeding  may  be  useful  in  some  cases.  Regulate  the  diet.  Time  and  nursing 
frequently  work  wonders  even  in  the  most  desperate  cases. 

ABSCESS  OF  THE  BRAIN. 

Causes. — May  come  from  inflammation  of  the  middle  ear,  caries  (death) 
of  the  bones  of  the  nose  or  skull,  infected  skull  wounds,  infectious  diseases, 
influenza,  or  erysipelas. 

Symptoms. — In  acute  cases  there  is  high  fever  and  the  symptoms  of 
meningitis. 

Treatment. — Operation  if  possible. 

LOSS  OF  SPEECH. 

Aphasia. 

The  power  of  speech  becomes  impaired  or  arrested  as  a result  of  disease 
or  injury  of  that  part  of  the  brain  which  controls  speech.  The  speech  may 
return  if  the  disease  is  not  too  extensive.  Good  nursing  and  dieting  are  about 
all  that  can  be  done. 

LOSS  OF  VOICE. 

Aphonia. 

Loss  of  voice  may  be  due  to  disease  of  the  vocal  cords,  to  diphtheria, 
or  to  some  disease  of  the  nervous  system. 

STAMMERING. 

The  treatment  lies  mostly  with  the  patient.  Speak  slowly  and  distinctly 
and  do  not  get  excited.  Go  to  a school  for  stammerers  if  you  can. 
PEOPLE’S  PIOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Closed  Teeth  and  Marking  Time. — Practice  reading  aloud  with  the 
teeth  closed  and  tap  with  the  finger  at  every  syllable  you  pronounce.  This 
has  proven  effective  in  many  cases. 

2.  Proper  Breathing. — A person  does  not  stutter  when  singing  because 
the  lungs  are  full  and  inflated.  Then  keep  the  lungs  well  filled,  take  deep 
breaths,  speak  loudly  and  when  there  is  a hesitation,  stop  instantly  and  take 
in  another  long  breath  before  trying  again. 

3.  Speaking  Slowly. — Stop  when  you  stammer,  wait  awhile  and  then 
try  again  to  say  the  word  more  slowly. 

TUMORS  OF  THE  BRAIN  AND  ITS  MEMBRANES. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  tumors  of  the  brain. 


202 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Symptoms. — Headache  sometimes  produces  temporary  loss  of  the  mind. 
Next  there  is  projectile  vomiting  which  is  a hurling  forth  of  the  material  with 
force.  There  is  dizziness,  slowness  of  thought,  mental  failure,  loss  of  speech 
and  paralysis. 

Treatment. — Sometimes  the  tumor  can  be  removed.  Make  the  patient 
as  comfortable  as  possible. 

GENERAL  MENINGITIS. 

Description. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  membranes  covering:  the 
brain  and  spinal  cord. 

Causes. — May  be  caused  by  injury,  bone  disease  or  infection. 

Symptoms. — There  is  headache,  a confused  mind,  delirium  and  convulsive 
attacks. 

Treatment. — Move  the  bowels  with  salts,  apply  cold  to  the  head,  rest  in 
bed  in  a darkened  room  and  have  perfect  quiet.  If  symptoms  of  pressure 
develop  an  operation  will  be  necessary  if  it  is  possible, 

PARANOIA. 

Dementia  Paralytica — Paresis — General  Paralysis  of  the  Insane. 

Causes. — Syphilis  causes  75  per  cent,  of  the  cases.  It  is  a sequel  of  that 
disease.  Alcoholism  and  excessive  sexual  indulg:ence  also  cause  it.  It  is 
common  among  “ rakes.”  This  is  a disease  of  middle  life  occurring  most  fre- 
quently between  the  ages  of  30  and  50  years.  Some  cases  seem  to  follow 
sunstroke  and  injury. 

Symptoms. — The  patient  seems  to  be  nervously  fatigued  or  mentally 
fagged.  The  temper  is  irritable  and  at  times  he  takes  offense  easily.  At 
times  he  is  also  very  forgetful.  Even  though  naturally  tidy,  he  becomes  sloven 
and  careless.  Though  formerly  kind,  he  becomes  brutal  to  his  family.  His 
speech  becomes  indistinct  and  the  pupils  of  the  eyes  act  unevenly.  He  may 
have  delusions,  extravagant  ideas.  He  may  believe  he  is  a great  historical 
character  or  that  he  is  a king  or  very  rich.  As  brain  disease  progresses  he 
becomes  mentally  dull  and  frequently  becomes  emotional  and  laughs  and 
cries  without  cause.  He  is  depressed  at  times  and  exalted  at  other  times. 
He  may  become  frenzied  with  rage  and  commit  a crime.  Death  usually  comes 
in  a bad  case  from  the  third  to  the  sixth  year. 

Treatment. — Treatment  can  relieve  but  cannot  cure. 

LOCOMOTOR  ATAXIA. 

Tabes  Dorsalis — Posterior  Spinal  Sclerosis. 

Description. — This  disease  is  characterized  by  incoordination  of  move- 
ment,  loss  of  muscle  sense,  loss  of  the  deep  reflexes  and  impairment  of  station 
and  gait.  The  most  noteworthy  loss  of  reflex  is  in  the  knee  joint  and  iris. 
Males  suffer  more  than  females,  ten  to  one.  One  half  of  the  cases  develop 
between  the  ages  of  thirty  and  forty  and  80  per  cent,  occur  between  thirty  and 
fifty  years  of  age. 

Causes. — The  most  common  cause  is  acquired  syphilis.  It  rarelv  is  the 
result  of  hereditary  syphilis.  It  is  the  result  of  syphilitic  diseases.  Next  to 
syphilis  the  cause  is  injury,  such  as  a severe  fall  or  blow  on  the  spine.  The 
primary  lesion  is  in  the  posterior  ganglia,  posterior  roots  of  the  spinal  cord. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


303 


and  in  the  cranial  nerves  and  not  in  the  posterior  columns  of  the  spinal  cord 
as  was  once  thought. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  patient  says  that  his  feet  feel  muffled  as  if  he  had  on 
a thick  pair  of  socks.  In  other  cases  he  notices  that  on  arising  at  night  he  has 
difficulty  in  getting  a proper  purchase  on  the  floor  with  his  feet,  or  the  floor 
may  feel  to  him  as  though  it  were  different  from  what  it  really  is.  It  is  hard 
for  him  to  walk  in  the  dark. 

Peculiar  Gait. — The  foot  is  raised  awkwardly  with  an  uncertain  motion. 
The  edge  of  the  foot  sometimes  rests  on  the  floor.  If  the  light  is  poor  the 
patient  sometimes  staggers  and  falls. 

Disturbance  of  Station. — The  patient  cannot  stand  steadily.  If  the  eyes 
are  closed  or  blindfolded,  he  sways  so  that  he  is  in  danger  of  falling. 

Other  Symptoms. — There  is  total  loss  of  the  knee  jerk  when  the  tendon 
is  tapped.  The  patient  has  pains  and  loss  of  sensibility.  There  are  -ightning 
pains  in  the  legs  which  are  darting  and  burning  There  are  tickling,  pricking, 
creeping,  sensations  of  heat  and  cold  In  80  per  cent,  of  the  cases  the  eyes 
fail  to  react  to  light  and  there  may  be  other  eye  troubles.  Owing  to  changes 
in  the  elbows,  shoulders,  hips  and  knees,  the  landmarks  of  these  parts  may  be 
completely  lost  and  there  is  often  great  swelling.  In  the  secondary  stage 
there  is  perforating  ulcer  of  the  foot.  Recovery  is  not  possible  but  it  may 
remain  stationar}^  If  it  comes  from  syphilis,  proper  remedies  may  check  it, 
but  they  cannot  cure  it. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  syphilis  cause  is  of  recent  date,  give  mercury. 
Iodide  of  potassium  is  the  usual  remedy  but  it  must  be  usea  unde^  proper 
directions.  For  the  twitching  in  the  limbs  give  the  bromides  of  sodium,  pot- 
ash and  ammonia  in  large  doses.  In  some  cases  certain  exercises,  baths  or 
electricity  are  good. 

ACUTE  ANTERIOR  POLIO  MYELITIS. 

Description  and  Symptoms. — In  this  disease  there  is  sudden  loss  of  power 
in  one  or  more  of  the  limbs.  Most  commonly  it  is  in  the  legs.  Wasting  of 
the  muscles  takes  place  immediately.  The  acute  disease  is  strictly  one  of 
child  life  and  occurs  most  frequently  during  the  first  three  years. 

Treatment. — Give  the  patient  rest  in  a quiet  and  darkened  room  and 
doctor  the  conditions  as  they  arise.  The  result  is  good  so  far  as  life  is  con- 
cerned but  it  is  hard  to  tell  how  much  the  paralysis  can  be  helped.  Electricity 
may  do  some  good. 

CHRONIC  ANTERIOR  POLIO  MYELITIS. 

Symptoms. — This  closely  resembles  the  acute  kind.  The  muscles  are 
paralyzed  and  waste  away.  The  outlook  is  grave.  The  future  of  the  case 
may  be  determined  somewhat  by  how  rapidly  it  develops.  When  the  disease 
is  caused  by  injury  the  outlook  is  better. 

Treatment. — Have  good  surroundings,  nutritious  food,  and  fresh  air  and 
sunshine.  Rub  the  paralyzed  parts  gently  but  not  too  much. 

BULBAR  PARALYSIS. 

Description. — This  affects  the  tongue,  lips  and  larynx.  There  is  shrinking 
of  the  tongue  and  lips. 

Causes. — Lesions  in  the  lower  back  part  of  the  brain. 

Symptoms. — The  disease  usually  begins  with  difficulty  in  moving  the 


204 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


tongue  The  patient  is  hardly  able  to  say  the  letters  “ v,”  “ n,”  ‘‘  r,”  “ f,”  and 
“1,”  He  speaks  “through  the  nose”  and  chewing  and  swallowing  become 
difficult.  All  conditions  gradually  get  worse.  The  disease  is  usually  fatal. 

Treatment. — Give  tonics.  Medicine  does  not  do  much  good. 

LATERAL  SCLEROSIS. 

Description. — The  patient  suffers  from  stiffness  of  the  muscles  of  the 
legs,  with  loss  of  power  of  motion  and  with  great  reflex  irritability. 

Causes. — It  may  be  caused  by  syphilis,  injuries,  or  by  suddenly  taking 
^old  as  men  do  sometimes  in  washing  sheep. 

Symptoms. — There  are  spasmodic  contractions,  or  jerkings,  of  the  muscles 
of  the  legs.  There  is  difficulty  in  bending  the  knees  and  ankles  and  greater 
difficulty  in  raising  the  toes.  The  disease  often  lasts  for  25  years. 

Treatment. — Treatment  does  not  do  much  good. 

MYELITIS. 

(Transverse  Kind.) 

Description. — This  is  an  inflammatory  process  in  the  spinal  cord. 

Symptoms. — There  is  pain  in  the  back,  numbness,  and  tingling  in  the  legs. 
There  is  a terrible  twitching  or  cramp-like  contraction  of  the  limbs.  Loss 
of  the  powei  of  the  legs  may  be  the  ‘first  symptom.  There  is  paralysis  of  the 
bladdei  and  holding  of  the  urine  or  else  an  inability  to  hold  it.  There  is 
a band-like  feeling  around  the  abdomen.  Sometimes  the  legs  jerk  terribly. 
A few  cases  may  get  well  but  many  linger  and  finally  die  of  some  other  trouble. 

Treatment. — The  treatment  does  not  do  much  good.  Give  good  nursing 
and  diet  and  draw  the  urine  with  a catheter  if  necessary. 

SPINAL  MENINGITIS. 

Description. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  membranes  of  the  spinal 
cord. 

Causes, — It  is  nearly  always  secondary  to  some  other  disease  such  as 
typhoid  fever  or  acute  articular  rheumatism. 

Symptoms. — There  is  pain,  chills,  and  fever  and  it  is  soon  noticed  that 
the  patient  is  stiff.  After  the  thigh  has  been  fixed  at  right  angles  to  the 
trunk  the  patient’s  leg  cannot  be  bent  at  the  knee.  The  muscles  of  the  back 
and  neck  are  very  stiff.  There  is  paralysis  of  the  bladder  and  the  patient 
is  either  unable  to  retain  or  unable  to  pass  urine  and  feces.  These  symptoms 
must  be  watched  for. 

Treatment. — Keep  up  the  patient’s  strength  and  allow  absolute  rest  on 
a soft  bed. 

ACUTE  ASCENDING  PARALYSIS. 

Landry’s  Paralysis. 

This  begins  in  the  legs  and  passes  rapidly  upward  until  it  affects  the 
muscles  of  the  trunk  and  arms  and  finally  causes  death  by  the  patient’s 
being  unable  to  breathe.  The  result  depends  upon  the  severity  of  the  attack, 
the  parts  affected,  and  upon  the  condition  of  the  heart  and  lungs. 

Treatment. — Allow  rest  and  meet  the  indications. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


205 


SHAKING  PALSY. 

Paralysis  Agitans. 

Description. — This  is  a chronic  affection  of  the  nervous  system  attended 
with  weakness,  tremors,  and  rigidity  of  the  muscles  and  especially'affects  the 
hands  and  forearms. 

Cause. — This  is  not  known.  More  men  than  women  are  affected. 

Symptoms. — The  hands  and  forearms  tremble  or  shake  almost  continu- 
ously. As  to  the  attitude,  the  head  is  bent  forward,  the  back  is  bowed  and 
the  arms  are  held  away  from  the  body  and  are  somewhat  bent  at  the  elbow. 

Treatment. — Live  an  out-door  life  and  have  plenty  of  quiet  and  rest. 
Give  1/100  grain  of  hyoscine  from  1 to  3 times  a day.  The  disease  is  incur- 
able but  you  can  make  the  patient  more  comfortable  and  prolong  life. 

NEURITIS. 

Description. — This  is  an  inflammation  or  degeneration  of  a nerve.  Peri- 
neuritis means  inflammation  around  a nerve  structure.  If  the  fibres  of  the 
nerves  are  primarily  affected  it  is  called  parenchymatous  neuritis.  It  is  called 
interstitial  neuritis  when  there  is  inflammation  of  the  tissues  surrounding  and 
between  the  nerve  fibres. 

Causes. — The  causes  are  injury,  diseases,  alcohol,  metallic  poisons  or 
gout. 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  vary  very  much  in  different  cases.  When 
there  is  a very  mild  attack,  only  a tingling  sensation  or  a numbness  may 
be  felt.  When  it  is  more  severe  the  tingling  and  prickling  sensations  are  felt 
not  only  at  the  place  where  the  trouble  is  but  also  far  away  from  it  at  the  end 
of  the  nerve.  If  the  disease  is  the  result  of  pressure  there  is  some  loss  of 
motion  but  not  much  pain.  If  it  is  the  result  of  infection  from  a wound,  pain 
is  present  and  usually  severe.  If  it  continues  there  is  a glossy  skin  and  wast- 
ing of  the  muscle. 

TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — The  part  affected  may  be  wrapped  in  lint  heavily 
smeared  with  an  ointment  made  of  equal  parts  of  ichthyol  and  lanolin,  outside 
of  which  is  placed  some  oil  silk  to  hold  the  moisture.  In  some  cases  hot 
poultices  of  flaxseed  or  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water  may  be  applied  in  the 
earlier  stages  to  relieve  the  inflammation.  If  the  pain  is  so  severe  you  cannot 
sleep  you  can  use  5 grains  of  phenacetin  4 or  5 times  a day.  For  the  same 
purpose  acetanilid  may  be  used  in  the  same  doses  or  antipyrin  may  be  used 
in  slightly  larger  doses.  If  absolutely  necessary,  morphine  may  be  used  hypo- 
dermically for  the  pain.  Place  the  parts  at  rest.  If  it  is  the  arm  it  should  be 
placed  in  a sling.  After  the  acute  stage  you  can  take  strychnine  in  doses 
of  from  1/60  to  1/30  of  a grain.  Or,  nux  vomica  may  be  used  in  5 to  10-drop 
doses.  These  may  be  combined  with  phosphorus  and  small  quantities  of 
quinine.  Faradic  electricity  may  be  carefully  applied  but  never  so  as  to  pro- 
duce suffering. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  medicines  used  are  the  second  dilution 
of  Aconite,  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna,  the  second  dilution  of  Bryonia, 
the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum  and  the  sixth  dilution  of  Rhus  Tox.  (For 
preparation  and  doses  see  “ Homeopathic  Medicines  ” in  Nursing  Depart- 
ment.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  STITCH  IN  THE  SIDE.— 

1.  Mustard  Poultices. — The  application  of  hot  water  or  mustard  poul- 
tices will  usually  give  relief. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


t06 


2.  Laudanum,  Sassafras,  Etc. — Take  an  ounce  each  of  laudanum  and  oil 
of  origanum  and  an  ounce-and-a-half  each  of  oil  of  hemlock  and  oil  of  sassa- 
fras. Mix  these  together  and  rub  thoroughly  on  the  affected  parts. 

3.  Camphor. — Saturate  a flannel  cloth  with  spirits  of  camphor,  place  on 
the  painful  parts  and  cover  with  a dry  cloth. 

4.  Belladonna  Plaster. — Apply  a belladonna  plaster. 

MULTIPLE  NEURITIS. 

Polyneuritis — Peripheral  N euritis. 

Description  and  Causes. — This  is  a condition  in  which  a large  numbet  of 
the  peripheral  (end)  nerves  of  the  body  suffer  from  chronic  inflammation  as 
a result  of  the  action  of  some  toxic  agent.  These  toxic  agents  may  be  derived 
from  external  or  internal  sources.  The  external  toxics  are  alcohol,  lead,  ar- 
senic, copper,  mercury,  aniline,  carbon  monoxide  and  carbon  bisulphide.  The 
internal  sources  are  poisons  developed  in  the  various  acute  infectious  fevers, 
as  typhoid  fever,  small-pox,  scarlet  fever,  influenza,  pneumonia,  diphtheria, 
dysentery,  etc.  The  disease  is  most  frequent  between  the  ages  of  20  and  50 
years. 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  are  fairly  constant  no  matter  what  the  cause. 
Alcoholic  neuritis  is  the  type  most  frequently  met  with.  At  the  beginning 
there  may  be  slight  fever.  The  patient  complains  of  tingling  and  numbness 
in  the  feet  and  fingers.  In  other  cases  there  is  dull  pain.  Following  these, 
weakness  develops.  The  patient  may  be  unable  to  move  his  hands  or  feet  and 
foot  drop  ” or  “ wrist  drop  ” develops.  After  a little  time  wasting  of  these 
parts  takes  place.  Then  there  may  be  over  sensitiveness  the  parts  affected. 
The  symptoms  may  even  be  somewhat  like  those  of  locomotor  ataxia.  Some 
parts  of  the  skin  may  suffer  from  excessive  sweating  and  swelling  and  some- 
times the  joints  are  swollen.  The  nerves  of  the  head  are  also  affected  and 
the  patient  may  squint.  Poison  from  diphtheria  is  the  most  common  internal 
cause  and  is  called  “ diphtheria  neuritis.”  It  most  frequently  affects  the 
muscles  of  the  palate.  This  makes  speech  and  swallowing  difficult.  Some  are 
paralyzed  in  all  their  extremities.  Sometimes  they  cannot  control  the  head. 

The  chances  for  recovery  are  favorable  in  nearly  every  case  unless  the 
patient  has  been  exposed  to  lead,  arsenic  or  alcohol  for  so  long  a time  that 
the  nerves  cannot  undergo  regenerative  change.  Less  pain  and  tenderness 
are  the  first  symptoms  of  improvement.  Recovery  may  take  months. 
TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Remove  the  cause  such  as  lead  or  arsenic.  Give 
to  these  patients  from  20  to  30  grains  of  iodide  of  potassium  2 or  3 times  a 
day.  Alcohol  must  be  stopped  if  taken  to  excess.  Laxatives  or  purges  arc 
beneficial.  Drink  freely  of  water.  Give  baths,  iron  and  arsenic  for  anemia, 
or  poor  blood.  Carefully  examine  the  heart  and  if  necessary  keep  the  patient 
lying  down.  Give  salicylates  if  needed. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  homeopathic  medicines  for  this  disease 
are  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite,  the  third  trituration  of  Arsenicum,  the 
second  dilution  of  Bryonia  and  the  sixth  dilution  of  Rhus  Tox.  (See  “ Home- 
opathic Medicines  ” in  Nursing  Department  for  preparation  and  doses.) 

CATALEPSY. 

This  is  a sudden  loss  of  all  voluntarv  moving  power  so  quickly  befalling 
all  muscles  that  the  different  parts  of  the  body  remain  in  precisel}^  the  same 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


207 


position  in  which  the  attack  finds  them,  thus  making  the  patient  appear  like 
a statue.  In  itself,  it  is  not  fatal. 

Treatment. — Restore  the  tone  of  the  system  with  tonics,  etc. 

' DELIRIUM  TREMENS. 

Mania  a Potu. 

This  is  really  only  an  incident  in  the  history  of  chronic  alcoholism  and 
results  from  the  long  continued  action  of  the  poison  on  the  brain.  A spree 
in  a temperate  person,  no  matter  how  prolonged,  is  rarely  if  ever  followed 
by  delirium  tremens;  but  in  the  case  of  an  habitual  drinker  a temporary 
excess  is  apt  to  bring  on  an  attack.  It  sometimes  develops  in  consequence  of 
the  sudden  withdrawal  of  the  alcohol. 

At  the  outset  of  the  attack  the  patient  is  restless  and  depressed  and  sleeps 
badly,  which  causes  him  to  take  alcohol  more  freely.  After  a day  or  two  the 
characteristic  delirium  sets  in.  The  patient  talks  constantly  and  incoherently; 
he  is  incessantly  in  motion  and  desires  to  go  out  to  attend  to  some  imasfinary 
business.  Hallucinations  of  sight  and  hearing  develop.  He  sees  obiects  in 
the  room,  such  at  rats,  mice  or  snakes,  and  fancies  they  are  crawling  over  his 
body.  The  terror  inspired  by  these  imaginary  objects  is  great  and  has  given 
the  popular  name  “ horrors  ” to  the  disease.  The  patients  need  to  be  watched 
constantly,  for  in  their  delusions  they  may  jump  out  of  the  window  or 
escape. 

In  private  practice  recovery  takes  place  in  a large  proportion  of  the 
cases. 

Treatment. — Produce  sleep  and  support  the  strength.  In  mild  cases  % 
dram  of  bromiile  of  potassium  combined  with  10  drops  of  tincture  of  capsi- 
cum may  be  given  every  3 hours.  Plyoscine,  1/100  grain,  can  be  given  hypo- 
dermically. Careful  feeding  is  the  most  important  element  in  the  treatment 
of  these  cases.  Milk  and  concentrated  broths  should  be  given  at  stated 
intervals.  (Extracts  from  Dr.  Osier,  one  of  the  greatest  physicians  of  the 
world.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  DRUNKENNESS.— 

1.  Thompson’s  Composition  Tea. — It  is  claimed  that  Thompson’s 
Composition  Tea  will  cure  drunkenness.  Take  hemlock  bark,  1 pound;  bay- 
berry  bark,  2 pounds ; ginger  root,  1 pound ; cloves,  2 ounces ; and  cayenne 
pepper,  2 ounces;  pulverize  and  mix  well.  Of  this  take  half  a teaspoonful 
with  a teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  put  into  half  a teacupful  of  boiling  water. 
After  it  has  stood  a few  minutes  fill  the  cup  with  milk.  Drink  half  of  this 
upon  arising  in  the  morning  and  the  rest  just  before  meal  time. 

2.  Tonic  and  Stimulant. — A celebrated  physician  gives  the  following: 
magnesia,  10  grains;  sulphate  of  iron,  5 grains;  peppermint  water,  11  drams 
and  spirits  of  nutmeg,  1 dram.  This  quantity  should  be  taken  twice  daily. 
It  is  a great  tonic  and  stimulant  and  has  proven  successful  in  many  cases 
for  which  many  are  most  thankful. 

3.  Stramonium  Leaves. — Give  a tea  made  of  stramonium  leaves.  It 
may  be  givdn  in  tea  or  coffee,  if  desired,  without  the  knowledge  of  the  patient. 
Will  relieve  the  appetite  for  tobacco  as  well  as  liquor. 

4.  Ammonia. — A teaspoonful  or  two  of  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia 
in  a glass  of  water  will  aid  in  sobering  the  patient.  May  be  repeated  in  45 
minutes  if  necessary. 


208 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


5.  Ginger  and  Pepper. — P'or  delirium  tremens  force  the  patient  to 
take  strong  coffee  or  milk  and  give  a tea  made  with  ginger  and  pepper. 

6.  Tincture  of  Capsicum. — Give  the  delirium  tremen  patient  tincture 
of  capsicum  in  teaspoonful  doses. 

7.  Bromo-Seltzer. — For  drunkenness  take  a dose  of  bromo-seltzer  and 
go  to  bed. 

INSANITY. 

“ Insanity  is  a departure  from  the  normal  mental  status  of  the  individual 
and  this  departure  is  due  to  some  diseased  condition  of  the  brain  or  nervous 
system. 

“ It  has  been  truly  said  that  man  is  the  product  of  his  antecedents,  multi- 
plied by  his  environments. 

“ Mental  abnormality  is  always  due  to  either  imperfect  or  eccentric 
physical  development,  or  to  effects  of  inborn  or  acquired  physical  disease, 
or  to  injurious  impressions,  either  anti-natal  or  post-natal,  upon  that  delicate 
and  intricate  physical  structure  known  as  the  human  brain.  Some  physical 
imperfections  more  than  others  give  rise  to  mental  derangements.  Some 
persons,  more  than  others,  when  affected  by  bodily  ailment,  tend  to  aberated 
conditions  of  the  mind.  Some  impressions  more  than  others,  are  particularly 
unfortunate  by  reason  of  their  corroding  effects  upon  the  brain  tablets  of  a 
sensitiye  mind.  To  these  natural  defects  and  unnatural  tendencies,  we  apply, 
in  a general  way,  the  term  “ The  Insane  Diathesis.”  This  is  a state  or  con- 
dition in  mental  pathology,  corresponding  to  those  diatheses  so  common  in 
physical  pathology,  namely,  the  scrofulous,  the  cancerous,  the  scorbutic,  the 
rheumatic,  the  gouty  and  the  calculous. 

“ The  insane  diathesis  is  a general  term  applying  to  all  those  conditions 
which  tend  to  the  inception  and  growth  of  mental  unsoundness.  This  dia- 
thesis may  be  inherited  or  acquired.  In  the  former  case  it  may  be  compared 
to  the  scrofulous ; and  in  the  latter,  to  the  gouty  diathesis. 

“ Those  who  are  born  to  become  insane  do  not  necessarily  spring  from 
insane  parents,  or  from  an  ancestry  having  any  apparent  taint  of  lunacy  in 
the  blood  but  they  do  receiye  from  their  progenitors,  oftentimes,  certain  im- 
pressions upon  their  mental  and  moral,  as  well  as  upon  their  physical  being, 
which  impressions,  like  iron  moulds,  fix  and  shape  their  subsequent  destinies. 
Hysteria  in  the  mother  may  develop  the  insane  diathesis  in  the  child.  Drunk- 
enness in  the  father  may  impel  epilepsy,  or  mania,  or  dementia,  in  the  son. 
Ungoverned  passions,  from  love  to  hate,  from  hope  to  fear,  when  indulged 
in  overmuch  by  the  parents,  may  unloose  the  furies  of  unrestrained  madness 
in  the  minds  of  the  children.  Even  untempered  religious  enthusiasm  may 
beget  a fanaticism  that  cannot  be  restrained  within  the  limits  of  reason. 

“ As  the  development  of  progress  is  slow  and  gradual ; so,  likewise,  is 
the  development  of  degeneracy.  As  men  attain  high  moral  and  intellectual 
achievements  only  through  the  effects  of  succeeding  generations,  so  it  seems 
but  natural  that  the  insane  should  oftentimes  trace  their  sad  humiliation 
and  utter  unfitness  for  the  duties  of  life  back  through  a tedious  line  of  pas- 
sion unrestrained,  of  prejudice,  bigotry,  and  superstition  unbridled,  of  lust 
unchecked,  of  intemperance  uncontrolled,  of  avarice  unmastered,  and  of 
nerve  resources  wasted,  exhausted,  and  made  bankrupt  before  its  time. 

Here  are  dangers  to  the  human  race  which  potent  drugs  cannot  avert. 
Here  are  maladies  which  medicines  cannot  cure.  But  the  medical  man,  the 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


209 


conservator  of  public  health,  realizing'  the  dangers  which  threaten  his  com- 
munity or  state,  may  help,  if  he  will,  to  parry  those  pathological  blows 
which  the  present  aims  at  the  future;  and,  by  timely  warnings  and  appeals 
to  his  clients  of  today,  may  save  them  for  his  own  treatment,  instead  of  con- 
signing them  to  an  asylum  wdiere  his  own  fees  cease  from  doubling  and  the 
crazed  ones  are  at  rest.”  (Extracts  from  Seldon  H.  Talcott.) 

Causes  of  Insanity. — Insanity  is  either  inherited  or  acquired. 

Inherited  Insanity. — It  may  be  inherited  because  of  the  high  living,  fast 
society  and  dissipation  of  the  parents.  Elbert  Hubbard  says  of  those  who 
waste  their  substance  upon  a certain  fashionable  hotel  air  that  they  are  apt 
“ to  have  gout  at  one  end,  general  paresis  at  the  other  and  Bright’s  disease 
in  the  middle.” 

Hereditary  influence  is  also  caused  by  drunkenness,  lust,  fear,  mental 
anxiety,  or  even  incompatibility  if  admitted  to  participation  in  the  act  of 
impregnation,  and  these  will  often  set  the  seal  of  their  presence  in  the  shape 
of  idiocy,  imbecility,  eccentricity  or  absolute  insanit}^ 

Acquired  Insanity. — Insanity  is  acquired  by:  (a)  Imperfect  nutrition, 

(b)  By  slight  or  almost  imperceptible  injuries  to  the  brain,  blows,  and  falls. 
(Stop  boxing  the  ears  of  children.)  (c)  By  those  fears  that  are  sometimes 
excited  in  the  minds  of  young  children  for  the  purpose  of  government. 
(Such  as  ghost  stories,  etc.)  (d)  By  overtaxing  the  undeveloped  physical 
powers.  (As  by  the  overworking  of  the  young  in  factories,  etc.)  (e)  By 
unwise  forcing  of  the  mind  in  its  immature  or  undeveloped  stage.  (Such 
as  crowding  children  too  hard  at  school.)  (f)  By  premature  or  unnatural 
excitement  of  the  sexual  organs  of  the  young.  (Masturbation,  etc.)  (g)  By 
suppression  of  the  ambitions  and  powers,  and  tastes,  and  desires,  of  the  en- 
thusiastic adolescent  (youth).  (h)  By  solitude.  (Such  as  the  life  of  a 
sheep  herder  which  frequently  causes  melancholia  which  is  a form  of. in- 
sanity.) 

History  of  Insanity. — The  earliest  reference  to  insanity  is  found  in  the 
bible.  Mention  of  it  will  be  found  in  Deuteronomy,  Samuel,  Ecclesiastes 
and  Jerem.iah.  Hippocrates  was  the  first  physician  who  seemed  to  have  any 
true  conception  of  the  real  nature  of  insanity. 

Classification  of  Insanity  According  to  Talcott. — 

1.  Melancholia,  which  includes  all  forms  of  mental  depression. 

2.  Mania,  which  includes  all  forms  of  mental  excitement. 

3.  ^ Dem.entia,  which  includes  all  forms  of  mental  weakness  or  failure 
except  idiocy  and  imbecility. 

4.  General  Paresis,  which  is  a distinct  form  of  mental  disease  possess- 
ing certain  characteristics  which  demand  that  it  shall  be  classified  seperately. 
In  this  form  you  will  find  conditions  of  mental  depression,  mental  excite- 
ment and  mental  weakness ; and  in  the  course  of  this  fatal  disease  you  will  find 
that  it  embodies  and  embraces  some  elements  of  all  other  forms  of  insanity. 
Definitions. — • 

Delusion. — A delusion  is  a false  belief. 

Hallucination. — This  is  a sensation  without  an  object.  Thus  it  is  said 
that  an  individual  who  hears  voices  when  no  sound  strikes  the  ear,  has 
an  hallucination. 

Illusion. — The  victim  may  see  a ball  rolling  on  the  floor  and  may  fancy 
that  it  is  an  animal  coming  to  destroy  him. 

Melancholia. — This  is  characterized  by  great  depression. 

14 


210 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Causes  of  Melancholia. — Predisposition,  physical  disease,  dissipation, 
work  and  worry,  shock  from  sudden  loss  of  friends  or  fortune,  brooding, 
disorders  of  faith,  solitude. 

Eorms  of  Melancholia. — Simple,  acute,  sub-acute;  chronic;  melancholia 
with  stupor,  with  agitation,  with  resistance;  acute  delirious  melancholia  and 
hypochondrical  melancholia. 

Mania. — This  means  a raving  madness. 

Causes  of  Mania. — Loss  of  property,  mental  anxiety,  over-work,  ill  health, 
injury  to  the  brain,  sunstroke,  insufficient  sleep,  etc. 

Forms  of  Mania. — 

1.  Several  forms;  namely,  acute,  sub-acute  (paranoia)  and  chronic. 

2.  Special  forms;  acute  delirious,  recurrent,  periodic  and  circular. 

3.  Peculiar  forms  which  are  named  from  supposed  causation  "as  from 
blows,  masturbation,  syphilis,  puerperal  fever,  hysteria,  climacteric,  tuber- 
cular, etc. 

4.  Disputed  forms  such  as  monomania  and  moral  mania. 

5.  Forms  such  as  dipsomania,  cretomania,  nymphomania  in  women, 
satyriasis  in  men,  kleptomania,  pyromania,  etc. 

Paranoia. — The  person  affected  is  called  a paranoiac.  He  has  delusions 
of  persecution  or  of  ambition,  grandeur,  etc. 

Dementia. — This  means  strictly  “ out  of  mind  ” or  without  mind.  In 
dementia  the  faculties  are  simply  enfeebled.  In  idiocy  and  imbecility  they 
are  imperfect. 

Idiocy. — This  is  a congenital  absence  of  both  cerebral  and  mental  power. 

Imbecility. — This  means  a checked  or  arrested  development. 

General  Paresis. — This  formidable  and  fatal  disease  is  a cosmopolitan 
type  of  all  modern  insanity  and  represents  to  the  fullest  degree  the  effects  of 
toil,  worry  and  intemperance  in  every  shade  and  form.  It  is  a deep  seated, 
far  reaching,  intractable  scourge  which  fastens  its  fangs  upon  the  matured 
brains  of  its  victims  and  rarely,  if  ever,  yields  its  hold. 

Causes  of  General  Paresis. — There  are  comparatively  few  cases  of  gen- 
eral paresis  where  the  causes  may  not  be  traced  to  over  work  in  the  field  of 
worry,  wine,  and  women.  This  disease  usually  develops  between  the  ages 
of  25  and  50  years. 

TREATMENT  FOR  INSANITY.— 

No  care  or  toil ; soft,  elastic  and  comfortable  beds  and  pleasant,  cheerful 
and  sunshiny  surroundings.  ^ 

Preventive  Treatment. — Avoid  the  causes. 

“ Bright  surroundings,  pleasant  associations,  stimulating  encouragements, 
abundant  food  of  the  best  and  plainest  quality,  fresh  air,  and  active  exercise 
in  the  clear  sunlight,  together  with  the  simple  direction,  not  forcing,  of  the 
mental  faculties,  will,  in  the  course  of  patient  time,  produce  from  even  poor 
stock  such  a robust  and  cultured  race  as  to  be  the  astonishment  of  those 
who  furnish  and  mould  the  material.” 


CONSTITUTIONAL  DISEASES 


CHRONIC  RHEUMATISM. 

Description  and  Symptoms. — This  is  a low  ^rade  of  inflammation  of  the 
structures  about  the  larger  joints  which  results  in  pain,  soreness,  stiffness  and 
disability  of  the  parts  and  these  are  the  main  symptoms. 

TREAT^VIENT.— 

Care  and  Prevention. — A person  with  rheumatism  needs  to  be  very  care- 
ful of  his  habits.  Flannel  should  be  worn  9 months  in  the  year.  Care  should 
be  taken  when  wet  to  change  the  wet  clothing  as  soon  as  you  stop  moving. 
Toil  should  not  sweat  and  then  sit  down  to  cool  off.  You  must  not  check 
the  perspiration.  When  sweating,  do  not  go  into  a cool  room  or  sit  down 
in  the  shade.  One  with  rheumatism  should  not  sleep  on  the  ground  floor 
as  the  bed  is  very  likely  to  be  damp.  It  is  better  to  sleep  up-stairs.  Do 
not  sleep  in  a bed  that  "has  not  been  slept  in  for  weeks  or  months  ^vithout 
airing.  “ Spare  beds,”  such  as  you  get  when  you  go  visiting,  are  not  good 
for  one  with  rheumatism  or  for  any  one  else.  All  sleeping  rooms  should  be 
well  aired  and  dry.  The  same  applies  to  the  bed  coverings.  These  little 
things  count  for  much  if  you  value  your  health  as  you  should. 

Local  Treatment. — Fifty  per  cent,  ichthyol  ointment  should  be  rubbed 
into  the  joints  twice  daily  and  may  be  alternated  with  chloroform  liniment. 
Chloroform  liniment  consists  of  4 drams  of  tincture  of  Belladonna,  2 drams 
of  aconite,  and  2 drams  of  chloroform.  In  other  instances  iodine  ointment, 
diluted  one-half  with  lanolin,  may  be  used.  Wear  warm  flannel  next  to  the 
skin. 

Springs  and  Baths. — Some  of  these  do  much  good  for  those  who  can 
afford  them.  Among  others  there  are  good  ones  at  Hot  Springs  in  Arkansas, 
Virginia,  South  Dakota,  Banff  in  Canada,  Bath  in  England  and  in  Michigan 
at  Mt.  Clemens.  Battle  Creek  and  Alma  and  in  Wisconsin  at  Waukesha,  etc. 
Turkish  baths  are  sometimes  beneficial. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Take  5 grains  of  salicvlate  of  soda  4 times  a 
day.  Iodide  of  potash  may  be  taken  in  the  same  doses  or  it  may  be  mixed 
with  blood  compounds  compose.d  of  herbs. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  medicines  used  are  the  third  dilution  of 
Belladonna,  the  second  dilution  of  Bryonia  and  the  sixth  dilution  of  Rhus 
Tox.  (For  preparation  and  dose  see  “Homeopathic  Medicines”  in  Nursing 
Department.) 

PEOPLE’S  FIOME  REMEDIES  FOR  VARIOUS  KINDS  OF  RHEU- 
MATISM.— 

1.  Celery. — A lady  in  New  York  writes  that  an  eminent  physician  of 
her  state  has  achieved  quite  a reputation  for  his  success  in  treating  cases  of 
chronic  rheumatism.  His  remedy  is  nothing  more  nor  less  than  the  com- 
mon garden  celery.  Boil  some  celery  in  water  until  it  is  quite  soft  and 
let  the  patient  drink  freely  of  the  liquor  three  or  four  times  a dav.  It  is 
also  beneficial  when  used  as  a food.  Those  suffering  from  rheumatism  ought 

211 


312 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


not  to  despair  of  a cure  until  they  have  tried  this  simple  but  effective  remedy. 

2.  Whiskey  and  Vinegar. — For  painful  joints  apply  equal  parts  of 
whiskey  and  vinegar. 

3.  Cucumbers. — Put  some  full-grown  cucumbers  into  a pot  over  a slow 
fire;  add  a little  salt  and  leave  over  the  fire  for  an  hour.  Press  the  iuice  from 
the  cucumbers,  bottle  tightly  and  place  in  the  cellar  for  a week.  Wet  a 
flannel  cloth  with  this  liquid  and  apply  to  the  painful  parts. 

4.  Eggs,  Vinegar  and  Turpentine. — For  external  use  put  2 eggs  into 
a pint  of  vinegar,  shake  well,  and  add  % pint  of  turpentine. 

5.  Baking  Soda. — Take  1 even  teaspoonful  of  common  baking  soda  in 
a glass  of  cold  water  3 times  a day  for  3 months.  A lady  living  in  Boston 
writes,  “ This  treatment  was  ordered  for  myself  by  two  doctors  at  the  Carney 
Hospital,  South  Boston,  Mass.,  when  my  arm  was  so  bad  that  I could  not 
get  it  to  my  head,  and  it  cured  me.” 

6.  Cayenne  Pepper  and  Alcohol. — Let  a quarter  of  a pound  of  cayenne 
pepper  stand  for  10  days  in  a pint  of  alcohol  and  you  will  have  one  of  the 
best  liniments  ever  used  for  rheumatism. 

7.  Sweet  Oil  and  Saltpeter. — In  case  of  inflammatory  rheumatism  add 
a pint  of  sweet  oil  to  half  an  ounce  of  pulverized  saltpeter  and  bathe  the 
affected  parts. 

8.  Liniment. — To  1 pint  of  vinegar  add  % of  turpentine  and  into 
this  break  an  egg,  shell  and  all.  Rub  on  the  parts  several  times  a day.  A 
lady  writes  that  this  cured  a friend  of  inflammatory  rheumatism. 

9.  Salicylate  of  Soda. — Have  some  salicylate  of  soda  put  up  in  5- 
grain  capsules  and  take  one  capsule  in  water  4 times  a day.  This  is  much 
used  by  doctors  for  chronic  rheumatism.  Do  not  take  it  long  enough  to 
affect  the  stomach  or  heart. 

10.  Bathing  Drops. — Take  2 teaspoonfuls  of  cayenne  pepper  and  1 
ounce  each  of  hemlock  oil,  gum  myrrh  and  pulverized  gum  guaiacum.  Shake 
well  together  and  bottle  for  use.  This  is  good  for  rheumatic  pains  or  pains  in 
the  head,  stomach  or  elsewhere.  Bathe  the  parts  night  and  morning. 

11.  Potatoes. — A lady  living  in  France  sends  us  a treatment  which 
she  says  has  cured  many  cases  of  sciatica.  Boil  a good-sized  potato  in  a 
quart  of  water.  Before  going  to  bed  bathe  the  affected  parts  in  this  water 
as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  Then  mash  the  potato  and  bind  on  as  a poultice. 
In  the  morning  again  heat  the  water,  which  should  have  been  saved,  and 
bathe  the  parts  again.  This  treatment  frequently  cures  in  a few  days  but 
in  some  cases  it  may  take  several  v/eeks. 

12.  Blue  Flag,  Etc. — For  sciatica  take  15  drops  of  the  fluid  extract  of 
blue  flag  twice  a day  in  a little  water  and  three  times  a day  rub  thoroughly  into 
the  back  part  of  the  thigh  a liniment  made  of  equal  parts  of  iodine  and 
aqua  amm.onia. 

13.  Sweating  Treatment. — In  cases  of  acute  rheumatism  the  first  thing 
is  to  produce  sweating.  The  warm  vapor  bath  may  be  used  for  this  purpose 
or  the  patient  may  be  placed  in  a warm  bed  with  bottles  of  hot  water  or  ears 
of  boiled  corn  around  him.  He  should  also  drink  freely  of  warm  teas  such 
as  catnip,  sage,  pennyroyal  or  flaxseed. 

14.  Poultices  and  Fomentations. — If  the  joints  are  swollen  and  painful, 
apply  either  warm  or  cold  fomentations  of  lobelia  and  hops,  or  hops  and 
stramonium  leaves ; or,  poultices  of  bran  or  flaxseed  or  rye  meal.  After 


CONSTITUTIONAL  DISEASES. 


313 


warm  poultices  are  removed  the  parts  should  be  covered  with  cotton  batting: 
or  flannel. 

15.  Stramonium  Leaves. — Bruise  some  fresh  stramonium  leaves,  mois- 
ten with  a little  water  and  apply  to  the  swollen  or  painful  joints.  Renew 
3 or  4 times  a day.  This  is  recommended  by  both  physicians  and  patients. 

16.  Sulphur. — Sprinkle  some  finely  pulverized  sulphur  on  a piece  of 
flannel  and  bind  on  the  limb  with  the  sulphur  next  to  the  skin,  then  cover 
with  cotton  batting  to  keep  the  air  away. 

17.  Hot  Water  Cloths. — Upon  the  first  symptoms  of  rheumatism  apply, 
thoroughly  and  persistently,  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water, 

18.  Camphor,  Ammonia,  Etc. — Take  V2  ounce  of  camphor,  % ounce  of 
ammonia,  1/2  ounce  of  sulphuric  ether  and  1/2  pint  of  alcohol  and  apply  ex- 
ternally by  rubbing  on  the  parts  2 or  3 times  a day.  This  does  not  soil 
the  clothing. 

19.  For  Rheumatism,  Etc. — Balsam  tolu,  gum  guaiacum,  gum  hemlock 
and  gum  myrrh,  of  each,  coarsely  powdered,  2 ounces ; oil  of  hemlock.  3 
ounces ; oil  of  wintergreen,  2 ounces ; and  alcohol,  1 gallon ; mix,  and  allow 
them  to  steep  for  2 weeks,  frequently  shaking.  The  dose  is  1 drajn  or  more 
in  half  a wineglassful  of  sweetened  water.  Besides  rheumatism,  this  is  also 
good  for  flatulent  colic,  acid  stomach  and  water  brash. 

20.  Blue  Flag. — For  rheumatism  take  blue  flag,  either  alone  or  in  com- 
bination. The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  10  to  20  drops  and  of  the  powder 
from  5 to  10  grains. 

21.  For  Chronic  Rheumatism. — Take  1 pint  of  whiskey  and  1 dram 
each  of  cimicifugin,  anthroxylin  and  apocynim.  The  dose  is  1 tablespoonful 
3 times  a day. 

22.  Black  Cohosh. — For  acute  and  chronic  rheumatism  use  from  5 to 
10  drops  of  tincture  of  black  cohosh  every  2 to  4 hours.  This  is  also  a great 
remedy  for  womb  troubles  such  as  dysmenorrhea,  leucorrhea,  etc. 

23.  Blue  Cohosh. — Blue  cohosh  is  good  for  rheumatism  of  the  small 
joints.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  Yo  dram  3 times  a day. 

24.  Queen  of  the  Meadow. — A tea  made  from  queen  of  the  meadow  is 
good  for  rheumatism  from  kidney  troubles.  The  dose  is  2 to  4 ounces  4 
times  a day. 

25.  Prickly  Ash  Berries  and  Poke  Berries. — Prickly  ash  berries  and 
poke  berries,  in  the  form  of  tincture  or  fluid  extract,  are  very  good  for  chronic 
rheumatism,  and  tertiary  syphilis.  The  dose  is  from  % to  1 dram. 

26.,  Lamp  Oil,  Skunk’s  Oil  and  Red  Pepper. — For  chronic  rheumatism 
take  2 ounces  of  skunk’s  oil,  the  same  quantity  of  cheap  lamp  oil  and  1 tea- 
spoonful of  red  pepper ; shake  well  together  and  bathe  with  a piece  of  flannel 
dipped  into  this  mixture 

27.  For  Chronic  Rheumatism. — Mix  thoroughly  % ounce  of  the  finest 
turkey  rhubarb  and  1 ounce  of  carbonate  of  magnesia.  Keep  this  well  corked 
in  a glass  bottle.  The  dose  for  chronic  rheumatism  is  1 teaspoonful  in  milk 
and  sugar  the  first  thing  in  the  morning.  Repeat  until  cured.  A lady  in 
Birmingham,  Alabama,  says  she  has  tried  this  with  success. 

28.  Lemon  Juice. — The  juice  of  2 lemons  taken  in  half  a glass  of 
water  before  each  meal  is  a good  remedy  for  rheumatism. 

29.  Sun  Baths. — Take  sun  baths  for  rheumatism. 


214 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


MUSCULAR  RHEUMATISM. 

In  this  disease  the  muscles  are  stiff  and  sore. 

TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — hlave  the  urine  examined  and  if  there  is  too 
much  acid  in  it  give  from  10  to  20  grains  of  bicarbonate  of  potassium  in 
water  3 or  4 times  a day.  In  some  cases  common  baking  soda  will  do. 
Salicylate  of  soda  is  also  good  and  may  be  taken  3 times  a day  in  from  10 
to  15-grain  doses. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  medicines  are  the  third  dilution  of 
Belladonna,  the  second  dilution  of  Byronia,  or  the  sixth  dilution  of  Rhus 
Tox.  (See  “Homeopathic  Medicines”  in  Nursing  Department  for  prepara- 
tion and  dose.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES. — (See  home  remedies  under  “ Chronic 
Rheumatism,”  also  under  “ Lumbago  and  Weak  Back.”) 

1.  Blue  Flag  and  Gin. — Buy  five  cents  worth  of  blue  flag  root,  let  it 
stand  in  1 pint  of  gin  for  24  hours,  and  take  a tablespoonful  3 times  a day. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  acts  on  the  disordered  liver  and  the  blood. 

2.  Smartweed  Tea. — Bathe  the  parts  thoroughly  with  a strong  tea 
made  of  smartweed. 

3.  Baking  Soda. — Every  four  hours  give  half  a teaspoonful  of  common 
baking  soda. 


LUMBAGO. 

Description  and  Symptoms. — This  is  muscular  rheumatism  of  the  back, 

or  loins.  It  is  very  painful  and  occurs  chiefly  in  working  men.  It  comes 

on  suddenly  and  in  severe  cases  it  “ downs  ” the  patient,  who  may  be  un- 
able to  turn  in  bed  or  to  rise  from  the  sitting  posture.  The  pain  shoots 

through  the  muscles  of  the  back  like  lightning. 

TREATMENT. — Allow  rest,  apply  hot  fomentations  on  the  painful  parts 
and  wear  warm  clothes  when  well.  Alorphine  may  have  to  be  given  for  the 
pain  in  some  cases.  Keep  the  bowels  open. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Take  the  sixth  dilution  of  Rhus  Tox.,  third 
trituration  of  Tartar  Emetic,  third  dilution  of  Belladonna  or  the  second 
dilution  of  Bryonia.  (For  preparation  and  dose  see  “ Homeopathic  Medi- 
cines ” in  Nursing' Department.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LUMBAGO  AND  WEAK  BACK.— 

1.  Smartweed,  V/ormwood,  and  Vinegar. — Apply  hot  fomentations  of 
smartweed.  wormwood,  or  vinegar  and  hops. 

2.  Origanum,  Wormwood,  Camphor  and  Turpentine. — Take  an  ounce 
each  of  oil  of  origanum,  wormwood,  gum  camphor  and  turpentine.  Put 
into  a bottle  and  fill  with  alcohol.  This  is  a fine  liniment  for  a weak  back. 

3.  General  Liniment. — Take  alcohol,  spirits  of  camphor,  aqua  ammonia, 
tincture  of  aconite  and  chloroform,  of  each  2 ounces  and  spirits  of  nitrous 
ether,  six  ounces;  mix,  and  keep  well  corked.  This  is  an  excellent  liniment 
for  backache,  also  for  sprains,  pains  and  bruises.  This  should  not  be  taken 
internally. 

4.  Turpentine  and  Kerosene. — Rub  with  turpentine  or  equal  parts  of 
turpentine  and  kerosene.  (Also  see  “ Liniments.”) 


CONSTITUTIONAL  DISEASES. 


215 


STIFF  NECK. 

Torticollis. 

Treatment. — Allow  the  parts  to  rest  and  apply  a belladonna  or  a mus- 
tard plaster.  Chloroform  liniment  is  good  and  so  is  equal  parts  of  chloral 
and  camphor. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Use  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna,  the 
second  dilution  of  Byronia,  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite,  or  the  sixth 
dilution  of  Rhus  Tox.  (For  preparation  and  dose ’see  “Homeopathic  Medi- 
cines ” in  Nursing  Department.) 


GOUT. 

Podagra. 

Description. — In  this  disease  there  are  deposits  in  the  joints  and  sur- 
rounding tissues.  The  joint  of  the  big  toe  is  very  commonly  the  most  affected. 

Causes. — The  precise  cause  is  unknown.  Heredity,  mode  of  life  as  to 
exercise  and  mental  labor,  high  living,  drinking,  and  age  have  much  to  do 
with  it.  Commonly,  it  does  not  develop  until  after  the  thirtieth  year  of 
age.  Abuse  of  alcohol,  over  eating,  and  metal  poisoning  are  among  the 
causes. 

Symptoms. — The  attack  usually  consists  of  a sudden  onset  of  sharp 
pain  and  inflammation  of  the  ball  of  the  big  toe.  The  pain  is  very  severe 
and  stabbing,  the  part  swells  rapidly  and  the  skin  is  red  and  hot.  It  usually 
develops  after  midnight.  Though  the  inflammation  is  great  there  is  never 
the  formation  of  pus.  The  acute  form  is  followed  by  little  disability  in  the 
part  after  the  attack. 

TREATMENT. — Colchicine,  iodine  and  the  salicylates  may  be  given  in 
proper  doses  by  a doctor.  For  acute  attacks,  wine  of  colchicine  root,  in  20 
to  40-drop  doses  may  be  given  every  6 to  12  hours.  Unload  the  bowels  first 
with  from  10  to  20  grains  of  compound  extract  of  colocynth.  You  can  also  give 
one  dose  of  extract  of  hyoscyamus.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 grains. 

A good  lotion  is  the  following:  soda,  4 ounces;  belladonna  liniment, 
4 ounces;  tincture  of  opium.  H/^  ounces,  and  water,  8 ounces.  Equal  parts 
of  this  and  hot  water  should  be  used  to  saturate  wool  which  has  been 
rolled  around  the  joint  and  the  dressing  should  be  changed  every  4 hours. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Drink  plenty  of  water.  Exercise  in  the  open  air; 
golf  is  good.  Do  not  use  sweet  wines,  fats  or  rich  foods. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Saleratus  and  Stramonium  Leaves. — After  holding  the  foot  in  warm 
saleratus  water  for  15  or  20  minutes,  annly  a poultice  of  stramonium  leaves. 
This  treatment  will  usunlly  be  found  beneficial. 

2.  Hot  Bran  Poultices. — A warm  poultice  made  of  vinegar  and  bran 
or  weak  lye  and  bran  will  often  give  relief. 

3.  Vinegar  and  Salt. — Take  some  vinegar  and  put  in  all  the  salt  it 
will  dissolve.  Apnly  with  a soft  flannel,  rub  with  the  hand,  and  dry  by  the 
fire.  Bathe  for  15  minutes  4 times  a dav.  As  improvement  proceeds  the 
number  of  daily  applications  may  be  diminished. 

4.  Raw  Onions. — Eat  a raw  onion  every  morning  for  breakfast.  It 
may  be  eaten  with  salt  and  vinegar  if  preferred. 


216 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


OBESITY. 

Fatness — Corpulence — Adiposity. 

TREATMENT. — Poke  root  berries  may  be  given  in  tablet  form  but  you 
must  watch  their  effect. 

Diet. — Exclude  all  sugars  and  sweet  articles  and  all  fat  and  richly 
prepared  food.  Give  lean  meat  and  vegetables  which  are  bulky  but  contain 
little  starch. 

The  following  may  be  permitted — starch,  lettuce,  string  beans,  spinach, 
cabbage,  cauliflower  and  a limited  amount  of  tomatoes. 

The  following  should  be  excluded — potatoes  in  large  amounts,  bread, 
peas,  beans,  and  alcoholic  drinks.  If  necessary  order  a more  rigid  diet. 
Do  not  allow  all  the  food  he  desires  but  let  the  patient  suffer  a little  from 
hunger.  The  following  may  aid  in  selecting  a diet. 

Breakfast. — Three  ounces  of  lean  meat,  1 ounce  of  bread  without  butter, 
and  a cup  of  tea  or  coffee  sweetened  with  saccharin.  Use  no  milk  or  sugar. 

Early  Luncheon. — Eat  a single  soft-boiled  egg  with  an  ounce  of  bread. 

Dinner. — Cup  of  clear  soup,  2 ounces  of  fresh  or  salt  fish  and  after  this 
2 or  3 ounces  of  lean  meat.  Also  small  quantities  of  the  vegetables  permit- 
ted may  be  taken.  Dessert — An  apple,  orange,  pear  or  grape  fruit. 

Afternoon  Luncheon. — Glass  of  milk  or  a cup  of  tea  with  a thick  water 
cracker. 

Supper. — Three  ounces  of  lean  meat,  lettuce  with  oil  or  vinegar,  celery, 
and  2 ounces  of  bread,  or  zweibach,  or  crackers. 

BED  TIME. — Biscuit  and  glass  of  milk. 

SUGAR  DIABETES. 

Diabetes  Mellitus. 

There  are  large  quantities  of  urine  passed  and  it  contains  sugar.  There 
is  thirst,  excessive  appetite,  and  nutrition  is  impaired  and  in  some  cases 
the  patient  steadily  becomes  emaciated,  or  thin.  The  presence  of  glucose 
in  the  urine  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  the  person  is  afflicted  with  dia- 
betes. The  other  conditions  mentioned  must  also  be  present.  The  disease 
is  much  more  common  in  Europe  than  in  the  United  States. 

Causes. — The  cause  is  not  yet  definitely  known. 

Symptoms. — The  symptoms  vary  greatly  in  different  cases.  The  dis- 
ease may  exist  for  some  time  before  the  patient  suffers  very  much.  Gen- 
erally, as  the  disease  continues  the  patient  notices  that  he  passes  urine  more 
frequently-  and  in  larger  quantities.  He  develops  more  or  less  thirst  and 
loses  sexual  desire  and  power.  Later  he  begins  to  feel  languid  and  lazy. 
He  is  usually  constipated  and  an  excessive  appetite  is  developed.  The 
thirst,  appetite,  and  loss  of  strength  and  flesh  are  usually  in  proportion  to 
the  quantity  of  the  urine  passed  and  the  amount  of  sugar  in  it.  When  the 
patient  passes  much  urine  the  tongue  becomes  glazed,  dry,  and  raw  in  ap- 
pearance. Sore  throat  and  thrush  may  develop.  The  skin  is  dry  and  harsh 
and  the  hair  brittle  and  without  lustre.  The  pulse  is  feeble  and  the  tem- 
perature below  normal.  The  first  symptoms  of  the  diseose  may  be  re- 
peated crops  of  boils  or  carbuncles.  The  stomach  troubles  are  very  annoying 
and  depend  upon  the  excessive  eating  and  drinking.  Extreme  constipation  is 
also  often  a troublesome  feature.  The  disease  is  mos^.  fatal  in  persons  under 
twenty-five  years  of  age  and  may  destroy  life  in  a few  weeks. 


CONSTITUTIONAL  DISEASES. 


217 


TREATMENT. — Drugs  have  a narrow  limit  in  the  treatment  of  this  dis- 
ease and  especial  care  should  be  given  to  the  diet.  Keep  the  bowels  open. 
Give  vichy  water  in  large  quantities  and  20  or  30  grains  of  soda  may  be 
given  every  2 or  3 hours  dissolved  in  vichy  water.  Opium  diminishes  the 
quantity  of  sugar.  The  deodorized  form  of  opium  is  generally  the  best. 
Give  V4  one,  two  or  three  times  a day  to  begin  with  and  gradually 

increase  if  necessary.  In  some  instances  from  % to  1^4  grain  of  morphine  is 
good  and  in  other  instances  from  Yo  to  1 grain  of  codeine  as  a beginning  dose 
is  good. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — Much  can  be  done  for  the  control  of  this  disease 
by  proper  attention  to  exercise  and  regulation  of  the  diet.  Sugars  must 
not  be  eaten.  Both  salt  and  fresh  meat  (excepting  liver),  butter,  cheese 
and  the  various  oils  and  fats  may  be  used.  Eresh  vegetables  such  as  lettuce, 
spinach,  dandelion,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  brussels  sprouts,  string  beans, 
celery,  water  cress,  tomatoes,  onions,  cucumbers,  etc.,  may  all  be  eaten. 
Olives  and  the  various  kinds  of  pickles  and  particularly  all  the  nuts,  except 
chestnuts  or  nuts  containing  too  much  starch,  may  also  be  a part  of  the  diet. 
Oatmeal  gruel  may  be  eaten  for  a week  or  two  and  then  the  patient  should 
return  to  other  foods  for  a time.  Tea,  coffee  and  cocoa  should  not  be 
sweetened. 

> The  bread  should  be  made  in  the  following  manner.  Mix  2 ounces  of 
dried  cocoa  powder  with  a little  water  containing  a small  quantity  of 
German  yeast,  make  into  a sort  of  paste  and  put  in  a warm  place  for  half  an 
hour  or  longer.  Add  2 ounces  aleuronat,  1 beaten  egg  and  a small  quantity 
of  water  in  which  a little  saccharin  has  been  dissolved.  Mix  all  until  a dough 
is  formed.  Divide  into  cakes  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven  for  20  or  30 
minutes. 

Carefully  avoid  sweet  fruits  such  as  melons  and  grapes  and  those  vege- 
tables which  contain  a very  large  amount  of  starch  and  sugar.  Rice,  sweet 
potatoes,  beets,  beans,  peas  and  carrots  contain  sugar  and  starch  and  should 
not  be  eaten.  Potatoes  are  the  best  form  of  starch  which  can  be  eaten  by 
the  patient  with  sugar  diabetes. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Bugleweed  and  Unicorn  Root. — Keep  the  bowels  open  with  some 
mild  cathartic,  such  as  rhubarb,  and  drink  frequently  of  a tea  made  of  equal 
parts  of  bugleweed  and  unicorn  root. 

2.  Diet. — Eat  nothing  except  beef  and  bread  made  from  gluten  flour. 

3.  Ergot. — A noted  French  physician  used  the  fluid  extract  of  ergot  in 
small  teaspoonful  doses  three  times  a day. 

DIABETES  INSIPIDUS. 

Description. — In  this  disease  the  patient  passes  a large  quantity  of  water 
but  with  no  sugar.  The  disease  is  more  common  in  males  than  in  females 
and  is  more  common  under  the  age  of  thirty  years. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a very  excessive  flow  of  urine.  Then  there  is 
constant  thirst,  a dry  mouth,  and  a very  dry  and  wrinkled  looking  skin. 
Manv  cases  recover  from  this  disease. 

Treatment. — Drug  treatment  is  unsatisfactory.  Care  and  attention 
should  be  given  to  the  stomach,  liver,  bowels  and  kidneys  so  that  they  can 
do  good  work. 


SKIN  DISEASES. 

(Including  Tumors,  Cancers,  Carbuncles,  Boils,  Etc.) 


TUMORS  AND  CANCERS. 

Sarcoma — Carcinoma — Sarcomata — Carcinomata. 

A tumor  is  a neoplasm,  that  is,  a new  growth.  It  originates  from  pre- 
existing tissues,  except  when  they  are  meta-static  (moving).  Tumors  are 
benign  and  malignant.  A benign  tumor  is  usually  composed  of  tissues  re- 
sembling those  in  which  it  originates.  A malignant  tumor  usually  consists 
of  tissues  widely  different  from  those  in  which  it  originates.  The  kinds  of 
tumors  are : fibrous,  fatty,  cartilaginous,  osseous  or  bony,  muscular,  vas- 
cular, vascular  or  erectile,  nerve  and  lymphatic. 

Cancers  and  Malignant  Growths. — If  an  operation  is  to  be  performed 
it  should  be  performed  early.  Tumors  in  the  breast  should  be  carefully 
watched.  An  injury  will  make  them  grow  faster.  Injury  causes  many  of 
them  to  become  malignant.  If  they  are  all  taken  out  early  the  result  is 
good.  The  trouble  is  that  people'  wait  too  long.  I do  not  believe  in  opera- 
tions unless  they  are  absolutely  necessary  but  when  they  are  necessary,  the 
sooner  they  are  performed,  the  better. 

Cancer  of  the  womb  or  of  the  lip  should  be  operated  on  early.  Cancer 
of  the  lip  is  frequently  caused  by  the  pipe  and  especially  by  a hot  pipe.  Can- 
cer in  the  throat,  and  oftentimes  on  the  tongue,  does  not  give  such  good 
results  from  operation. 

Do  not  let  every  physician  use  the  X-Ra}"  on  you  for  tumors  or  cancers. 
Some  are  helped  but  many  are  terribly  injured.  Only  an  expert  should 
use  this  for  any  growth. 

Technically  speaking,  medicines  do  not  yet  cure  cancers  though  many 
so-callcd  cancers  are  cured.  For  these,  a number  of  good  home  remedies 
are  given. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CANCERS,  TUMORS  AND 
ULCERS.— 

1.  Egg,  Soot  and  Arsenic. — Mix  the  white  of  an  egg  with  wood  soot 
to  make  a paste;  add  10  grains  of  arsenic  and  of  this  make  a plaster  and 
apply  to  the  cancer.  When  it  breaks  or  is  killed,  apply  a slippery  elm  poul- 
tice and  keep  on  until  all  is  removed  and  the  sore  is  healed.  A man  living 
near  Zanesville,  Ohio,  has  removed  a number  of  cancers  from  various  people 
with  this  plaster  and  this  receipt  was  obtained  from  a relative  of  the  man 
who  has  been  so  successful  with  it. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — In  using  arsenic  you  must  watch  its  effects  very 
carefully, 

2.  Poke  Root  Poultice. — Roast  some  poke  root  in  hot  ashes  until  soft, 
then  mash  and  make  a poultice  with  hot  water.  This  is  not  only  good  for 
tumors  but  is  a most  excellent  annlication  for  caked  breasts. 

3.  Sheep  Sorrel. — An  old  Indian  doctor  living  in  Oregon  has  been 
verv  successful  in  treating  cancer  by  bruising  sheep  sorrel  upon  brass  and 
applying  as  a poultice  as  long  as  the  natient  can  bear  it.  He  alternates  this 

218 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


219 


with  a bread  and  milk  poultice  but  always  leaves  the  sorrel  on  as  long:  as 
possible.  This  treatment  is  continued  until  the  cancer  is  drawn  out  by 
the  roots.  The  writer  knows  of  two  persons  who  were  cured  in  this  manner 
after  their  physicians  had  pronounced  a cure  impossible.  It  is  also  well  to 
drink  a tea  made  of  the  sheep  sorrel. 

4.  Wild  Parsnip. — Take  the  common  wild  parsnip  roots,  simmer  on 
the  stove  till  thick  like  paste,  spread  on  a piece  of  chamois  skin,  and  apply 
to  the  cancer.  4'he  man  sending  us  this  recipe  says  the  cancer  will  come 
out  by  the  roots  and  the  sore  may  then  be  healed  with  any  good  ointment. 

5.  Red  Clover  Blossoms. — The  extract  of  red  clover  blossoms  has  been 
used  by  physicians  to  cure  many  cancers.  It  thoroughly  cleanses  the  blood 
of  its  impurities  and  may  be  used  for  cancer  of  the  stomach  as  well  as  on 
the  surface.  Instead  of  using  the  extract  you  can  make  a tea  of  clover 
blossoms  and  drink  of  it  freelv. 

6.  Egg  and  Salt. — Take  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  stir  in  salt  as  long  as 
it  will  receive  it.  Mix  this  with  the  white  of  the  egg  to  form  a salve. 
Twice  a day  put  a part  of  this  on  some  sticking  plaster  and  apply  to  the 
cancer. 

7.  Beeswax,  Lard,  Verdigris  and  Snuff. — Melt  1 ounce  of  beeswax, 
add  lYj  pounds  of  lard,  and  stir  in  1 ounce  of  verdigris  and  % pound  of 
Scotch  snuff  and  apply  as  a plaster.  Good  for  cancers,  tumors  and  ulcers. 

8.  Poke  Root. — Apply  a plaster  made  from  the  dried  juice  of  the  leaves 
of  the  common  poke  root.  Many  cures  are  reported  as  the  result  of  the 
application  of  poke  root. 


ABSCESS. 

Description. — An  abscess  is  a circumscribed  collection  of  pus  (matter). 

Causes. — Abscesses  are  usually  caused  by  the  presence  of  pus  germs 
in  the  tissues. 

Symptoms  of  Acute  Abscess. — There  is  local  swelling  and  pain  and 
frequently  a chill  or  a gradual  rise  of  temperature.  Finally  the  parts  soften 
and  the  pus  reaches  the  surface. 

TREATMENT. — Painting  with  tincture  of  iodine  sometimes  helps.  Use 
hot  fomentations  as  soon  as  there  is  pus.  In  some  places  there  is  great 
danger  in  delay,  especially  when  the  abscess  is  near  a joint.  To  bring  it 
to  a head  use  a bread  and  milk  poultice  with  a little  catnip  added;  or,  a 
flaxseed,  corn  meal  or  slippery  elm  poultice.  For  an  adult  from  % to  1 tea- 
spoonful of  laudanum  may  be  put  into  the  poultice  if  there  is  much  pain. 

How  to  open  an  Abscess. — Use  a knife  that  has  been  placed  in  boil- 
ing water  for  at  least  five  minutes.  Wash  the  parts  thoroughly  with  a 
linen  or  gauze  cloth  dipped  into  water  that  has  been  boiled,  borne  anti- 
septic should  be  added  to  it  if  you  have  it.  Do  not  squeeze  the  abscess 
much.  Syringe  it  with  hot  water  or  an  antiseptic  and  a clean  syringe. 
You  can  put  15  or  20  drops  of  carboh'c  acid  into  a cup  of  water  and  syringe 
with  this.  Use  antiseptics  like  listerine.  etc.,  if  you  have  them,  but  boiled 
water  will  do.  After  you  have  thoroughly  cleansed  the  abscess,  put  some 
absorbent  cotton  on  it,  cover  it  over  with  a little  gauze,  and  fasten  with  ad- 
hesive plaster;  or,  if  vou  do  not  have  these  things,  use  carbolized  salve  on 
linen,  or  even  salt  water  will  do.  and  cover  up.  You  must  take  this  care  and 
especially  when  the  abscess  is  located  near  a joint  or  on  the  neck.  Most  of 
the  common  abscesses  get  well  after  opening,  with  little  treatment,  but 


220 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


they  often  leave  a bad  scar.  An  abscess  under  the  jaw  must  be  carefully 
opened  because  there  are  so  many  blood  vessels  in  that  region. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Flaxseed  and  Bread  and  Milk  Poultices, — An  abscess  may  be  drawn 
to  a head  by  poulticing  with  flaxseed,  or  bread  and  hot  milk;  or,  hot  water 
compresses  may  be  used. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Local  applications  for  an  abscess,  to  draw  it 
to  a head,  if  they. are  to  be  of  any  benefit  must  possess  heat,  moisture,  and 
some  drawing  power.  Something  like  laudanum  or  poppy  heads  is  fre- 
quently needed  to  relieve  the  pain.  The  above  remedies  have  heat,  mois- 
ture and  some  drawing  power. 

2.  Fomentations. — Apply  fomentations  of  marshmallow,  chamomile 
flowers,  poppy  heads  or  hemlock  leaves. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Poppy  heads  and  chamomile  flowers  relieve  the 
pain  and  marshmallow  allays  the  inflammation. 

3.  Iodine. — Paint  the  affected  parts  with  iodine  and  repeat  once  a 
day  until  a cure  is  affected. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  is  a good  remedy  when  applied  early. 

4.  Tomatoes. — Boil  some  tomatoes  and  thicken  with  meal  or  bran. 
Apply  to  the  abscess  and  keep  on  warm  for  two  days. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  poultice  has  moisture,  the  corn  meal  has 
heat  and  the  tomatoes  contain  an  acid  which  is  astringent  and  helps  to  draw. 
The  word  astringent  is  frequently  used  in  medicine.  It  means  the  power 
to  check  discharges,  whether  of  blood,  mucus  or  any  other  secretion.  As- 
tringents act  by  contracting  the  tiny  blood  vessels  and  secreting  orifices.  The 
chief  astringents  are  sugar  of  lead,  nitrate  of  silver,  tannic  acid  (tannin), 
gallic  acid,  sulphate  of  zinc,  kino  calectin,  dilute  mineral  acids,  and  alum. 
Tea  contains  tannin  and  is  therefore  an  astringent.  Oak  bark  is  also  an 
astringent. 

5.  Diet  and  General  Treatment. — There  is  no  objection  to  the  use  of 
poultices  such  as  ground  flaxseed,  slippery  elm,  bread  and  milk  and  such 
like,  during  the  forming  stages  of  an  abscess,  but  they  should  never  be  used 
in  case  of  a fully  matured  and  discharging  abscess.  W ashing  with  warm 
water  and  castile  soap  and  the  use  of  simple  dressings  are  best.  In  manv 
cases  a nourishing  diet  is  strictly  demanded  together  with  such  other  means 
as  will  tend  to  strengthen  the  svstem ; but  when  an  abscess  occurs  in  a 
robust  person,  with  a predisposition  to  inflammatory  diseases,  the  diet 
should  be  restricted  to  the  simplest  kind.  This  applies  to  internal  as  well 
as  external  abscesses. 

CARBUNCLES. 

Description  and  Symptoms. — A carbuncle  is  a very  painful  inflamma- 
tion of  the  lower  or  true  skin.  The  painful  part  begins  to  swell,  harden, 
and  discolor,  generally  assuming  a purplish  color.  After  5 or  6 davs  little 
openings  form  in  the  swollen  and  dis'^olored  place,  from  which  there  is- 
sues a yellowish,  mattery  substance.  The  swelling  and  hardness  continue 
to  increase  in  circumference.  Only  a little  matter  comes  from  each  hole  but 
these  holes  gradually  widen  and  run  together  until  by  degrees  a consider- 
able portion  of  the  skin  is  entirelv  destroved ; or.  the  outer  skin  mav  be  raised 
in  a greenish  blister  which  finally  breaks.  We  now  see  the  dead  tissue 
underneath ; the  matter  discharges  more  freely  and  large  pieces  of  the  dead 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


221 


tissue  slough  off  with  it.  The  loss  of  flesh  may  amount  to  several  inches. 
Carbuncles  are  much  more  destructive  and  dangerous  than  are  boils.  They 
appear  most  frequently  on  the  back  of  the  neck,  along  the  spine,  on  the 
forehead  and  on  the  buttocks  and  aged  people  are  chiefly  affected  with  them. 
When  they  appear  with  diabetes  they  are  hard  to  heal  and  usually  mean 
death. 

Treatment. — Open  thoroughly  and  deeply  with  a sharp,  clean  knife 
which  has  been  placed  in  boiling  water  for  at  least  five  minutes  before  using. 
Make  two  cuts,  crosswise;  then  dress  twice  a day  and  scrape  out  all  the 
dead  tissue.  Some  advise  burning  out  the  dead  tissue  with  carbolic  acid 
but  this  might  be  dangerous  in  aged  people.  All  dressing  must  be  done 
cleanly.  Have  at  hand  some  absorbent  cotton,  gauze  and  adhesive  plaster. 
After  dressing,  wet  the  cotton  with  some  antiseptic  solution  like  listerine 
and  place  this  on  the  carbuncle  and  cover  with  more  cotton  and  gauze  and 
fasten  in  place  with  the  adhesive  plaster.  The  dressing  is  done  by  washing 
the  part  v/ell  with  cotton,  gauze,  or  clean  linen  which  is  dipped  into  some 
antiseptic  solution  like  listerine.  Use  some  antiseptic,  if  possible,  but  if 
there  is  none  within  reach,  use  boiling  water.  Dig  out  the  dead  tissue  with 
a clean,  boiled  instrument,  syringing  if  necessary  with  an  antiseptic  solu- 
tion or  peroxide  of  hydrogen,  full  strength.  Clean  and  re-dress  the  car- 
buncle frequently. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Salt  and  Turpentine. — Bind  salt  upon  the  carbuncle  and  keep  it  wet 
with  turpentine. 

2.  Flaxseed  Poultice. — Poultice  with  flaxseed  meal. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  contains  heat  and  moisture  and  through 
its  sedative  properties  is  soothing  to  the  carbuncle.  This  is  also  true  of 
the  slippery  elm  poultice. 

3.  Slippery  Elm  Poultice. — Apply  a poultice  of  slippery  elm  bark  to 
the  carbuncle. 

4.  Egg,  Turpentine,  Camphor  and  Flour. — Take  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  turpentine,  a teaspoonful  of  pulverized  camphor  gum 
and  enough  flour  to  form  a paste.  Bind  this  on  the  carbuncle  with  a piece  of 
muslin. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — The  yolk  of  an  egg  is  right  lively  in  its  drawing 
powers. 

5.  Tannin. — A man  in  North  Dakota  cured  some  very  bad  carbuncles 
with  tannin.  He  sprinkled  as  much  into  the  openings  as  would  dissolve  and 
in  24  hours  washed  them  with  castile  soap ; this  treatment  he  continued  until 
cured. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Tannin  is  an  astringent,  lessens  the  discharge,  and 
allays  the  odor. 

6.  Yolk  of  Egg. — If  you  desire  something  to  draw,  nothing  better  will 
be  found  than  the  yolk  of  an  egg  mixed  with  salt. 

7.  Carbolic  Acid. — Crude  carbolic  acid  is  sometimes  used  for  carbuncles 
but  should  be  used  with  great  care. 

8.  Egg,  Sugar  and  Flour. — Take  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  1 teaspoonful  of 
white  sugar,  and  1 teaspoonful  of  flour;  mix  well  together  and  bind  on  as 
a poultice.  This  will  not  increase  the  pain. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  is  good  for  getting  rid  of  the  dead  tissue 
of  a carbuncle. 


223 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


9.  Bread  and  Milk  Poultice. — A bread  and  milk  poultice  is  both  draw- 
ing and  soothing. 

10.  Wild  Cherry,  Burdock,  Yellow  Dock  and  Dandelion. — Make  a strong 
tea  of  equal  parts  of  wild  cherry  bark,  and  the  roots  of  burdock,  yellow  dock 
and  dandelion.  Sweeten  and  take  a tablespoonful  three  times  a day.  This 
is  to  get  the  blood  in  good  condition. 

11.  Smartweed. — Poultice  the  carbuncle  with  smartweed. 

BOILS. 

Furunculosis. 

Description. — A boil  is  an  inflammation  of  a spot  in  or  under  the  skin 
and  there  is  the  formation  of  pus  as  a result  of  this  inflammation.  Boils 
frequently  appear  in  persons  suffering  with  sugar  diabetes. 

TREATMENT. — Tincture  of  iodine  painted  on  boils  sometimes  stops 
them  if  applied  early.  You  can  poultice  with  flaxseed  meal  or  with  a bread  and 
milk  poultice  to  which  a little  catnip  has  been  added.  Have  the  poultices 
just  large  enough  to  thoroughly  cover  the  boils  and  keep  them  hot.  The 
application  of  poultices  should  be  stopped  when  the  boil  comes  to  a head 
and  it  should  be  opened.  Burdock,  yellow  dock,  leptandrin  and  sarsaparilla 
are  all  good  to  take  internally  for  the  blood.  When  they  come  with  diabetes 
they  are  hard  to  cure.  If  you  have  many  boils  or  carbuncles  you  should 
have  the  urine  analyzed  for  sugar.  ‘Keep  the  kidneys  and  bowels  working  well. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Apply  two  per  cent,  salicylate  ointment  twice 
da'ly.  Internally  take  Yi  grain  'of  calcium  sulphide  four  times  a day.  At 
first  paint  the  sore  with  collodion  and  renew  the  coat  eyery  hour  until  a 
hcayy  coyering  is  formed.  If  pus  forms  it  must  be  opened.  The  poultices 
should  contain  sweet  oil,  and  if  there  is  much  pain  they  should  contain  lau- 
danum. Alcohol  and  camphor  applied  locally  are  good  in  the  first  stages. 
When  boils  occur  in  the  external  ear,  syringe  the  canal  frequently  with  hot 
water  and  open  the  boil  when  it  is  ripe.  The  following  ointment  will  be 
found  excellent  for  the  pain.  To  1 dram  of  petrolatum  add  4 grains  of  iodo- 
form and  2 grains  of  menthol.  Smear  this  on  some  cotton  and  put  into  the  ear 
two  or  three  times  a day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Chamomile  Flowers. — A poultice  of  chamomile  flowers  will  draw 
a boil  to  a head  so  that  it  may  be  opened. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — A chamomile  poultice  holds  heat  and  moisture 
for  a long  time  and  it  has  a sedative,  or  quieting  and  soothing,  action  on  the 
local  parts  which  is  due  to  its  oily  constituents. 

2.  Castor  Oil  and  Lime  Water. — “ Apoly  castor  oil  freely  to  the  boil  and 
at  the  same  time  take  lime  water  to  cleanse  the  blood  of  its  impurities,”  writes 
a lady  who  has  tried  it. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — The  calcium  in  the  lime  water  is  what  aids  in 
purifying  the  blood. 

3.  Corn  Meal,  Onions  and  Soap. — Take  1 cupful  of  corn  meal,  2 large 
onions  cut  up  fine,  and  2 ounces  of  laundry  soap ; mix,  and  ^pply  as  a hot 
poultice. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  poultice  not  only  has  heat  and  moisture, 
which  are  desired,  but  the  soap  and  onions  have  drawing  power. 

4.  Onion  Poultice. — Apply  an  onion  poultice.  Fry  some  onions  in  lard 
and  use  soft  and  hot. 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


223 


Physician’s  Remarks. — This  contains  three  things  to  be  desired ; namely, 
heat,  moisture  and  drawing  power. 

5.  Flaxseed  or  Linseed  Meal  Poultice. — Apply  a flaxseed  or  linseed 
meal  poultice.  This  retains  heat  and  moisture  for^a  long  time. 

6.  Onions. — Fry  some  onions  in  lard  and  mix  with  a little  softened  bees- 
wax. Apply  to  the  parts. 

7.  Brown  Paper. — Burn  some  brown  paper  and  apply  to  the  boil. 

8.  Iodine. — The  application  of  tincture  of  iodine  in  the  first  stages 
will  often  scatter  or  dry  up  the  boil. 

i).  Lily  Poultice. — Boil  some  white  lily  root,  make  a poultice,  and  apply 
to  the  boil. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Adding  laudanum  to  any  of  the  above  remedies 
will  lessen  the  pain. 

10.  Camphor.— Apply  spirits  of  camphor  freely. 

11.  Carbolic  Acid. — Apply  diluted  carbolic  acid  to  the  parts.  Use  with 

care. 

FELON. 

Run-Around — Whitlow — Paronychia — Panaratium. 

There  are  two  kinds — the  superficial  and  the  deep  seated. 

Description  of  Superficial  Variety. — This  kind  is  generally  seated  imme- 
diately around  and  beneath  the  finger  nail,  commencing  either  nt  the  side, 
the  bwick,  or  the  end  of  the  finger.  It  is  of  a dusky  red,  tender,  and  very  pain- 
ful on  pressure  and  throbs  violently  and  continually  but  is  not  swollen  much. 
Two  or  three  days  later  matter  is  seen  under  the  outer  skin  and  sometimes 
it  is  also  under  the  nail.  These  are  the  kind  of  felons  that  can  be  stopped 
with  such  remedies  as  the  home  remedies  given  below. 

Description  of  Deep  Seated  Variety. — In  this  variety  the  deeper  struc- 
tures ''re  affected  and  the  pain  is  terrible.  The  tough  covering  of  the  bone  is 
affected  and  pus  appears  next  to  the  bone  and  underneath  this  tough  cover- 
ing and  the  swelling  is  what,  causes  the  terrific  pain.  There  is  but  one  thing 
to  do  for  this  kind  of  felon  and  that  is  to  open  it  early  and  thoroughlv.  If 
you  do  not  do  this  you  will  suffer  terribly  for  days  and  nights  and  may 
lose  the  use  of  a joint  or  have  a crippled  finger  or  hand.  However,  if  opened 
properly,  one  opening  is  all  that  will  be  necessarv,  unless  the  felon  comes 
in  the  palm  of  the  hand  where  deep  opening  is  dangerous  on  account  of  the 
blood  vessels. 

How  to  Open  a Felon. — Have  a curved  knife  with  both  edges  sharp  and 
it  should  be  placed  in  boiling  water  for  at  least  5 minutes  before  using. 
Place  the  patient’s  hand  on  the  table  with  the  felon  side  up  and  this  is  usually 
the  palm.  Put  the  patient’s  arm  awav  from  the  body  and  stand  behind  the 
elbow.  Put  the  knife  carefnllv  on  the  finger  a little  ways  from  the  felon 
and  on  the  side  nearest  the  hand.  Call  the  patient’s  attention  to  something 
at  the  other  side  of  the  room  and  while  he  is  looking  away  press  down  hard 
with  the  knife  and  as  you  press  down  he  will  jerk  and  thus  make  the  cut 
long  enou,gh.  As  the  table  is  solid  he  cannot  jerk  down  awav  from  the 
knife  and  ^he  cut  will  go  through  the  covering  of  the  bone  as  desired  and  in 
10  minutes  there  will  be  very  little  pain.  The  knife  must  go  through  the 
tough  membrane  which  covers  the  bone  or  you  will  hurt  the  patient  without 
doing  him  any  good.  Have  a sharp  knife,  a solid  table,  and  press  hard,  as  it 
will  not  hurt  any  more  and  it  will  all  be  over  in  two  seconds.  As  a general 


224 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


thing,  I would  discharge  any  doctor  who  saw  a bone  felon  early  and  had  to 
open  it  more  than  once.  Placing  the  hand  on  the  table  is  essential : the 
sharp  knife  and  pressure  will  do  the  rest.  Remember  that  you  must  cut  deep 
enough  to  go  through  the  periosteum,  or  covering  of  the  bone.  The  pus 
is  between  this  covering  and  the  bone  and  you  must  make  an  opening  for  it. 
If  you  do  not,  it  will,  after  many  days  and  nights  of  suffering,  burrow  through, 
and  destroy  much  flesh. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FELONS.— 

1.  Egg  and  Salt. — To  prevent  a felon  apply  the  white  of  an  egg  with 
% teaspoonful  of  salt  added.  If  applied  in  time  no  one  need  have  a felon. 

2.  Sugar,  Lime,  Whiskey  and  Kerosene. — To  draw  a felon  to  a head 
nothing  is  better  than  to  take  brown  sugar  and  unslaked  lime  in  equal  parts 
and  add  enough  of  a mixture  of  equal  parts  of  whiskey  and  kerosene  to  make 
a salve.  Bind  this  on  the  felon  and  in  24  hours  it  will  be  ready  to  open. 

3.  Indian  Turnip,  Bread  and  Milk. — Take  either  the  green  or  the  dried 
root  of  the  Indian  turnip  which  is  commonly  called  Jack  in  the  Pulpit;  grate 
a teaspoonful  into  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk ; simmer  for  a few  min- 
utes ; thicken  with  bread ; and  apply  like  a poultice  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 
This  is  good  for  both  felons  and  carbuncles. 

4.  Salt  and  Turpentine. — Take  equal  parts  of  finely  powdered  dry  rock 
salt  and  spirits  of  turpentine  and  apply  to  the  felon,  changing  as  it  becomes 
dry. 

5.  Camphor  and  Gunpowder. — Bind  some  gun  powder  on  a felon  and 
keep  it  wet  with  spirits  of  camphor  and  relief  will  be  obtained  in  2 or  3 hours. 

6.  Weak  Lye  Water. — Keep  the  finger  in  a cup  of  weak  lye  which  is 
kept  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  If  too  tiresome,  rest  and  try  it  again.  It  will 
aaye  weeks  of  suffering  and  may  save  a finger. 

7.  Turpentine. — Wrap  the  finger  with  cloth  and  keep  thoroughly  wet 
with  turpentine  for  two  or  three  days.  Begin  when  the  felon  first  appears. 

<S.  Salt  and  Vinegar. — Take  pure  vinegar,  heat  it,  add  a little  salt  and 
hold  the  finger  in  it  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 

9.  “ Hound’s  Tongue.” — Bruise  the  leaves  of  ‘‘  hound’s  tongue  ” and 

apply  hot.  Change  when  dry. 

10.  Fly  Blister. — A fly  blister  the  size  of  the  thumb  nail  will  draw  the 
felon  to  a head  in  5 or  6 hours  when  it  may  be  opened  and  the  pus  let  out. 

11.  Lye  Water,  Soap  and  Turpentine. — Soak  the  finger  or  affected  part 
for  half  an  hour  in  strong  lye,  or  ashes  and  water,  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 
Do  this  2 or  3 times  a day  apd  apply  a poultice  of  soft  soap  and  turpentine. 
If  the  felon  comes  to  a head,  lance  it,  poultice  with  lye  and  elm  bark,  and 
heal  with  some  good  salve. 

12.  Egg,  Turpentine,  Soap,  Salt  and  Meal. — Take  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
10  drops  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  a small  quantity  of  hard  soap,  and  a tea- 
spoonful each  of  burnt  salt  and  Indian  meal;  mix,  and  apply  to  the  felon. 

13.  Turpentine  and  Flour. — Take  a little  Venice  turpentine,  thicken  it 
with  wheat  flour  and  apply  as  a thin  plaster. 

14.  Soap  and  Brown  Sugar. — A plaster  made  of  equal  parts  of  soap  and 
brown  sugar  is  good  when  applied  to  a felon. 

15.  Honey  and  Flour. — Take  a little  honey  and  stir  in  wheat  flour  to 
m.ake  a paste  and  apply  this  to  the  felon  as  a plaster. 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


WENS. 

Description. — Wens  are  encysted  tumors  varying  from  the  size  of  a 
small  pea  to  the  size  of  a walnut  or  even  an  orange.  They  are  generally 
movable.  They  very  often  appear  on  the  head  and  frequently  get  sore  from 
combing  and  brushing. 

Treatment. — They  are  harmless  unless  they  get  sore.  They  may  easily 
be  taken  out  with  a knife.  They  may  also  be  eaten  out  with  salve  made  of 
equal  parts  of  fine  salt  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  but  it  will  take  some  time. 

ULCERS. 

Treatment. — Burnt  alum  is  good  for  ulcers  and  for  proud  flesh.  Witch 
hazel  is  a good  aplication  for  ulcers  on  the  legs.  Apply  lime  to  old  lazy 
ulcers  that  need  life.  Either  tannic  acid  or  strong  white  oak  bark  are  good 
for  some.  Apply  peroxide  of  hydrogen  when  there  is  much  mucus-pus. 
Also  apply  a hot  pack  to  liven  them  up. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES. — (Also  see  “ Home  Remedies  for  Cancers, 
Tumors  and  Ulcers.”) 

1.  Potato  and  Charcoal. — Apply  a poultice  of  equal  parts  of  scraped 
raw  potato  and  finely  powdered  charc'oal.  The  lady  from  whom  this  recipe 
was  obtained  says  that  her  son  had  a foul  sore  of  long  standing  on  his  leg 
and  that  different  physicians  doctored  him  without  success.  She  at  last 
accidentally  ran  across  this  recipe  in  an  old  medical  book  and  decided  to 
try  it  with  the  result  that  the  sore  was  entirely  healed  up  and  has  not  ap- 
peared again. 

2.  Bread,  Flaxseed  and  Charcoal. — Let  an  ounce  of  bread  stand  in  5 
ounces  of  hot  water  near  the  fire  for  10  minutes  and  add  5 drams  of  powdered 
flaxseed  and  two  dram.s  of  charcoal,  thus  forming  a soft  poultice.  This  will 
be  found  excellent  for  ulcers. 

3.  Slippery  Elm. — A slippery  elm  poultice  is  a good  application  for 
ulcers. 

4.  Sugar,  Alum,  Bluestone,  Etc. — A lady  living  in  Canada  sends  the 
following  recipe  which  she  says  will  cure  ulcers  or  old  sores.  Put  into  a 
quart  bottle  six  drams  of  loaf  sugar,  4 drams  of  alum,  2"(4  drams  of  blue- 
stone,  1 dram  of  sugar  of  lead  and  1 tablespoonful  of  honey;  then  pour  in 
a pint  of  vinegar  and  shake  several  times  a day  until  it  is  dissolved.  Apply 
3 times  a day.  Weaken  with  w’ater  when  you  first  apply  it  as  it  will  smart. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  treatment  will  be  found  good. 

WARTS. 

Take  30  grains  of  salicylic  acid  and  1 ounce  of  vinegar;  mix,  and  apply 
frequently.  Or,  they  may  be  burnt  out  with  either  nitric  or  sulphuric  acid. 
Apply  the  acid  with  a match  or  tooth  pick  and  do  not  get  it  upon  the  sur- 
rounding parts.  Apply  pitch  of  the  arbor  vit?e  tree;  or,  get  some  tincture 
of  thuja  occidentalis  at  the  drug  store  and  apply  that.  Thuja  is  especially 
good  for  very  large  warts. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Arbor  Vitae. — Rub  the  wart  frequently  with  the  gum  from  the  arbor 
vitae  tree. 

2.  Milkweed. — Bruise  milkweeds  and  apply  the  milk  that  runs  from 
them  to  the  warts  several  times  a day  and  they  will  soon  come  off. 

15 


S20 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


3.  Ashes  and  Vinegar. — Burn  some  common  willow  bark,  mix  the 
ashes  with  strong  vinegar  and  apply  frequently. 

4.  Sal  Ammoniac. — Moisten  a piece  of  sal  ammoniac  and  rub  on  the  wart 
thoroughly  every  night  and  morning. 

5.  Acetic  Acid. — Cut  away  the  dry  hard  skin  and  touch  them  once  or 
twice  a day  with  strong  acetic  acid.  Be  careful  not  to  let  the  acid  touch  the 
surrounding  skin. 

6.  Sulphur  and  Alcohol. — Mix  thoroughly  ‘ half  an  ounce  of  sulphur 
with  the  same  quantity  of  alcohol  and  apply  freely  once  or  twice  a day. 

7.  Cinnamon  Oil. — Apply  it  several  times  a day  for  a week  or  more. 
A lady  living  at  Garrettsville,  Ohio,  says  she  cured  a seed  wart  with  this. 
It  must  be  used  some  time  but  will  effect  a cure. 

8.  Rosin  Weeds. — The  milk  from  rosin  weeds  frequently  applied,  will 
remove  warts. 

9.  Iodine. — The  application  of  iodine  will  remove  warts. 

10.  Baking  Soda. — Dissolve  enough  common  baking  soda  in  water  to 
make  it  thick,  rub  on  the  wart  as  often  as  you  please  and  it  will  soon  disap- 
pear. A lady  living  in  Birmingham,  Alabama,  writes,  “ I have  seen  this  tried 
many  times  and  always  with  success.” 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BUNIONS. 

1.  Stream  of  Water. — Let  a stream  of  very  warm  water  fall  from  a 
teakettle  directly  upon  the  swelling.  Let  the  water  fall  as  far  as  the  patient 
can  stand  it  and  repeat  every  day  until  cured. 

2.  Boracic  Acid. — Sprinkle  boracic  acid  in  the  shoes. 

3.  Iodine. — “ Paint  with  iodine  night  and  morning  and  the  soreness 
will  soon  be  relieved.  I cured  two  bunions  in  this  way,”  writes  a lady  from 
Garrettsville,  Ohio. 

4.  Salicylic  Acid. — Apply  salicylic  acid  to  the  parts. 

5.  Flaxseed  and  Smartweed. — Apply  poultices  or  fomentations  of 
smartweed. 

6.  Turpentine. — Apply  cloths  wrung  out  of  turpentine. 

7.  Saltpeter  and  Sweet  Oil. — A well  tried  remedy  is  to  dissolve  five 
cents  worth  of  saltpeter  in  some  sweet  oil  and  rub  the  joint  every  night  and 
morning.  Use  more  frequently  if  the  bunion  is  very  painful. 

CORNS. 

Apply  the  following  formula  night  and  morning  for  several  days.  Take 
salicylic  acid,  30  grains;  extract  cannabis  ind.,  10  grains  and  collodii,  V2 
ounce.  Apply  with  a camel’s-hair  brush.  After  it  has  been  applied  for 
several  days,  soak  the  corn  in  hot  water  and  it  will  come  out.  For  soft 
corns,  first  wash  and  dry  the  parts  and  then  apply  a solution  of  nitrate  of 
silver,  using  60  grains  of  silver  nitrate  to  an  ounce  of  water.  Apply  every 
4 or  5 da}^s. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Lemon. — A lady  writes  from  Georgia  saying  that  she  has  cured 
several  corns  by  binding  on  a piece  of  lemon  at  night  and  leaving  until 
morning.  Two  or  three  applications  are  all  that  are  needed. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  will  be  found  to  be  an  effective  treatment 
in  many  casas. 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


227 


2.  Tobacco  and  Pine  Pitch. — Boil  some  tobacco  to  make  an  extract, 
mix  with  white  pine  pitch  and  apply  to  the  corn.  Renew  once  a week  until 
the  corn  is  gone. 

3.  Potato  Skins. — Place  the  inside  of  the  skin  of  a boiled  potato  to  the 
corn  and  let  it  remain  for  12  hours. 

4.  Boracic  Acid. — Sprinkle  boracic  acid  in  the  shoes  for  either  corns 
or  foot  sweating. 

5.  Vaseline  and  Camphor. — Mix  vaseline  with  camphor  and  apply  fre- 
quently. 

6.  Bran  and  Vinegar. — Soak  some  bran  in  cider  vinegar  and  bind  on 
the  corn  for  three  nights. 

7.  Camphor,  Kerosene  and  Turpentine. — Put  ten  cents  worth  of  cam- 
phor gum  into  a half  pint  bottle  and  fill  with  equal  parts  of  kerosene  and  tur- 
pentine. Apply  night  and  morning  and  the  soreness  will  soon  be  relieved. 

8.  Adhesive  Plaster. — Put  adhesive  plaster  on  the  corn  and  wear  for 
some  time.  It  relieves  the  pressure  and  consequently  the  pain. 

9.  Alum  and  Turpentine. — Apply  either  alum  water  or  turpentine  for 
corns. 

10.  Hot  Water. — Soak  the  corns  daily  in  hot  water  for  some  time  and 
then  carefully  take  away  the  loose  tissue. 

11.  Oil  of  Peppermint. — A little  oil  of  peppermint  rubbed  over  a sensi- 
tive corn  relieves  the  soreness  in  a remarkable  way. 

12.  Camphor. — For  soft  corns  apply,  2 or  3 times  daily,  a piece  of  cotton 
wet  with  tincture  of  camphor  and  keep  cotton  between  the  toes  until  the 
corns  have  entirely  disappeared. 

13.  Ivy  and  Vinegar. — Soak  a piece  of  ivy  in  vinegar  and  bind  on  the 
corn  at  night.  In  the  morning  the  corn  may  be  picked  out  unless  it  is  an 
obstinate  one  when  it  may  require  2 or  3 applications  to  effect  a cure. 

14.  Turpentine. — Wrapping  a piece  of  linen  wet  in  turpentine  about  the 
toe  night  and  morning  will  cure  soft  corns. 

15.  Shoes. — Preventive  treatment  is  best.  Wear  shoes  that  fit  you. 
Don’t  crowd  a number  eight  foot  into  a number  four  shoe. 

SWEATING  OF  FEET. 

Bromidrosis. 

Apply  belladonna  ointment  at  night  for  adults.  Watch  for  a dry  throat 
and  enlarged  pupils  for  these  indicate  the  use  of  too  much  belladonna.  A 
teaspoonful  of  boric  acid  to  a cup  of  water  is  good  as  a wash.  The  oint- 
ment is  very  good  for  chapped  hands  and  face  and  also  for  sweating  feet  and 
hands.  It  should  be  applied  at  night.  Either  salicylic  or  boric  acid  are  good 
when  dusted  over  the  parts.  Or.  you  can  use  an  ointment  made  of  equal 
parts  of  salicylic  acid  and  powdered  corn  starch. 

NIGHT  SWEATS. 

From  1/250  to  1 /OO  o^  a grain  of  atropine  may  be  used  once  a day  but 
should  only  be  prescribed  by  one  who  has  knowledge  of  its  action.  Give 
twenty  to  thirty  grains  of  camphoric  acid  an  hour  before  time  for  the  sweat- 
ing to  begin.  Give  this  in  capsule  form.  It  will  be  found  good  and  is  safer 
than  the  atropine. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  second  dilution  of  China  and  the  third 
dilution  of  Phosphoric  Acid  are  good  when  continued  for  some  time. 


*28 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Nutmej^,  Alum,  Cloves,  Etc. — Take  one  good-sized  nutmeg,  a lump 
of  alum  of  the  ^ame  size  and  a teaspoonful  of  cloves;  pulverize  all  and  add 
to  half  a pint  of  brandy  or  good  whiskey.  Dose — A tablespoonful  3 times  a 
day,  shaking  well  each  time  before  using. 

2.  Sage  Tea. — Drink  freely  of  cold  sage  tea.  The  warm  sponge  bath 
should  be  used  at  night  and  cold  sponging  of  the  body  in  the  morning  on 
rising.  Wipe  dry  each  time  and  make  use  of  severe  friction  or  rubbing  with 
a coarse  dry  towel. 

3.  White  Oak  Bark — Vinegar  and  Whiskey. — Bathing  the  body  occa- 
sionally with  a weak  decoction  of  white  oak  bark  will  be  found  serviceable. 
Vinegar  and  whiskey  are  also  good  for  this  purpose. 

4.  Blood  Root. — Five  drops  of  acetic  blood  root  taken  3 times  a day  is 
a good  remedy  for  night  sweats. 

5.  Whiskey  and  Quinine. — Mix  whiskey  with  about  two  ounces  of 
quinine,  shake  it  up  and  sponge  off  every  night. 

CHILBLAINS. 

Cabbage  leaves  are  a good  application  for  chilblains.  Either  alum  water 
or  turpentine  is  good  as  a wash.  If  the  parts  are  unbroken  either  tincture 
of  capsicum  or  prepared  paper,  of  capsicum  may  be  applied.  A salve  made 
of  rosin  and  ichthyol  ointment  is  good.  Iodine  and  lard  in  equal  parts  will 
also  give  relief.  ^ 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— For  Chilblains  and  Frostbites. 

1.  Starch. — Moisten  some  powdered  starch  and  rub  on  the  parts  to 
stop  the  itching. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Starch  is  not  only  an  important  element  of  food 
but  is  a good  application  for  burns  and  scalds. 

2.  Lime  Water  and  Kerosene. — Apply  lime  water  and  kerosene  in 
equal  parts.  After  the  blisters  break  apply  flaxseed  or  bread  and  milk  poul- 
tice. 

3.  Kerosene.-r-Wet  a cloth  with  kerosene  and  apply  to  the  affected 

parts. 

4.  Potatoes  and  Salt. — Slice  some  raw  potatoes,  leaving  the  skins  on ; 
sprinkle  a little  salt  over  them  and  wash  the  chilblains  with  the  liquid  that 
settles  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 

Physician’s  Remark. — The  chief  virtue  in  the  potatoes  is  the  starch  and 
the  salt  helps  to  draw  this  virtue  from  them. 

5.  Brandy  and  Salt. — Rub  the  parts  with  brandy  and  salt.  This  re- 
duces the  inflammation  and  hardens  the  skin.  Some  very  obstinate  cases 
have  been  cured  by  this  treatment. 

6.  Alum. — Dissolve  a little  alum  in  some  water,  bathe  the  affected 
parts  and  warm  before  the  fire.  Two  or  three  applications  will  give  relief. 

7.  Hot  Salt  Water. — Once  a week  bathe  the  feet  and  hands  in  hot  salt 
water.  This  is  both  a preventive  and  a cure. 

8.  Vinegar  and  Salt. — Bathe  the  parts  every  evening  befor-;  going  to 
bed  with  hot  vinegar  in  which  there  has  been  dissolved  a handful  of  salt. 

9.  Turpentine  and  Sassafras. — Morning  and  evening  apply  a solution 
of  an  ounce  of  turpentine  and  three-eighths  of  an  ounce  of  oil  of  sassafras. The 
turpentine  may  be  used  alone  if  the  sassafras  is  not  at  hand. 

10.  Boracic  Acid. — Sprinkle  boracic  acid  in  the  shoes. 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


229 


11.  Carbolic  Acid. — Put  4 or  5 drops  of  carbolic  acid  into  a teacupful 
of  rain  water  and  bathe  the  affected  parts  2 or  3 times  a day. 

12.  Care  and  Treatment. — If  one  has  been  badly  frozen  keep  him  away 
from  the  fire  and  thaw  out  the  parts  slowly.  First  rub  them  with  snow,  then 
flannel  and  lastly  with  the  hands ; then  bathe  the  parts  frequently  with  witch 
hazel. 


CHAPPING. 

Mix  2 drams  of  lycopodium  with  3 drams  each  of  subnitrate  of  bismuth 
and  zinc  oleate.  Apply  3 times  a day  to  hands  or  cheeks  that  are  chapped 
from  exposure  to  cold  or  wet.  Cold  cream  and  camphor  are  also  very  ^ood. 

Mix  2 drams  each  of  pulverized  calaminae  and  pulverized  zinc  oxide  with 
4 drams  of  glycerine,  2 ounces  of  alcohol  and  enough  water  to  make  a pint. 
This  is  for  chafing  of  infants.  Apply  with  a soft  cloth  after  each  removal  of 
the  diaper  and  allow  to  dry.  This  is  good  where  there  is  diarrhea  and  irri- 
tating urine. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— For  Chapped  Hands  and  Face. 

1.  Cosmoline. — A lady  living  in  Missouri  says  that  cosmoline  applied 
to  chapped  hands,  face  or  lips  is  one  of  the  very  best  things  she  has  ever  used. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — I think  that  lanolin  is  more  penetrating  and  will 
go  in  deeper  than  the  cosmoline.  Either  one  is  good. 

2.  Beeswax  and  Sweet  Oil. — Dissolve  a small  piece  of  beeswax  in  a 
little  sweet  oil.  Two  or  three  applications  while  warm  will  effect  a cure. 

3.  Quince  Seeds,  Borax  and  Glycerine. — To  12  ounces  of  warm  water 
add  Y2  ounce  of  quince  seed,  let  stand  for  several  hours  until  thick,  and  strain. 
Dissolve  ounce  of  powdered  borax  in  a little  of  this  mixture  and  stir  in 
with  the  rest.  Add  2 ounces  of  glycerine  and  any  perfume  desired.  This 
is  excellent  for  softening  the  hands. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Quince  seed  oil  and  glycerine  are  both  quite 
soothing. 

4.  Glycerine,  Bay  Rum,  Camphor,  Etc. — Take  equal  parts  of  glycerine, 
bay  rum,  camphor,  listerine  and  lemon  juice  and  mix  together.  Apply  to 
the  hands  while  moist.  This  is  from  a woman  living  at  Nelson,  Ohio. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Glycerine  keeps  the  hands  soft  and  prevents 
cracking  and  chapping;  camphor  is  very  good  for  chapped  or  rough  hands; 
the  listerine  is  an  antiseptic  wash  and  lemon  juice  acts  as  an  astringent  and 
is  a little  hardening. 

5.  Hog’s  Lard. — Chapped  hands  can  generally  be  cured  by  keeping  clean 
and  applying  hog’s  lard.  Keeping  the  hands  clean  is  a good  preventive  and 
especially  with  children. 

6.  Glycerine,  Bay  Rum  and  Rose  Water. — A mixture  of  glvcerine,  bay 
rum  and  rose  water  makes  a good  lotion.  A few  drops  of  bergamot  added 
will  give  it  a nice  odor.  Massage  with  the  lotion  while  moist  and  dry  with 
a towel. 

7.  Alum,  Boracic  Acid,  Etc. — Take  V2  ounce  each  of  gum  tragacanth. 
powdered  alum  and  boracic  acid ; 4 ounces  of  glycerine ; 6 ounces  of  alcohol 
and  1 pint  of  water  or  enough  to  make  this  solution  like  cream.  Perfume 
with  any  favorite  extract.  Soak  the  gum  tragacanth  in  a quart  of  soft  water 
for  two  days,  beat  up  well  until  all  lumps  disappear,  strain,  and  add  to  the 
mixture. 


230 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


8.  Glycerine  and  Arnica. — Mix  five  cents  worth  of  glycerine  with  a 
dimes  worth  of  arnica  and  apply  to  the  chapped  parts. 

0.  Alcohol,  Glycerine,  Vinegar  and  Lemon  Juice. — To  an  ounce  each 
of  alcohol  and  glycerine,  add  4 ounces  of  either  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  This 
is  good  when  it  is  desired  to  harden  the  hands  a little. 

10.  Rose  Oil  and  Glycerine. — Immediately  after  washing  apply  a mix- 
ture of  rose  oil  and  glycerine. 

11.  Alcohol,  Glycerine  and  Borax. — Mix  two  ounces  of  alcohol,  2 ounces 
of  glycerine,  1 ounce  of  solution  of  borax,  1 ounce  of  rose  water  and  2 ounces 
of  distilled  water.  A lady  living  at  Manhattan,  Kansas,  says:  “ I have  used 
this  for  years  and  it  has  proven  excellent  both  for  the  hands  and  face.' 

12.  Glycerine,  Alcohol,  Quince  Seed,  Etc. — Mix  4 ounces  of  ram  water, 
4 ounces  of  rose  water,  2 ounces  of  glycerine,  1 ounce  of  alcohol,  V2  ounce 
of  quince  seed  and  2 grains  of  morphine.  A lady  living  at  McKees  Rocks, 
Pa.,  says  she  has  used  this  for  years  and  knows  of  nothing  to  compare  with  it 

13.  Glycerine,  Rose  Water  and  Carbolic  Acid. — Use  equal  parts  of  gly- 
cerine and  rose  water  with  a few  drops  of  carbolic  acid  added. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SUNBURN  AND  TAN. 

1.  Buttermilk  and  Bran  Tea. — Wash  the  face  before  retiring  with  but- 
termilk and  in  the  morning  wash  with  weak  bran  tea  with  a little  cologne 
added. 

2.  Strawberries. — “ Rub  crushed  strawberries  over  the  face  at  night/' 
writes  a lady  who  has  tried  it 

3.  Elder  Flower  Tea  and  Cologne. — Put  a few  drops  of  cologne  into 
some  elder  flower  tea  and  bathe  the  face  for  sunburn. 

4.  Borax. — Dissolve  halt  an  ounce  of  pulverized  borax  in  half  a pint 
of  water.  Bathe  the  parts  twice  daily 

5.  Cream. — Cold  fresh  cream  frequently  applied  will  remove  sunburn. 

6.  Cucumbers. — Slice  some  cucumbers  and  let  them  stand  in  water  for 
some  time.  Wash  the  face  and  hands  with  this  water. 

7.  Lemon  Juice. — Apply  lemon  juice  for  sunburn. 

IVY  POISONING. 

A solution  of  sugar  of  lead  may  be  used  but  I generally  apply  sugar  of 
lead  in  the  powdered  form.  Dust  it  freely  over  the  poisoned  parts  but  do 
not  let  any  of  it  get  into  the  eyes. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— For  Ivy  and  Oak  Poisoning. 

1.  Alcohol  and  Sugar  of  Lead. — Equal  parts  of  alcohol  and  solution  of 
sugar  of  lead  are  execellent  for  ivy  poisoning.  Powdered  sugar  of  lead  may 
be  used  alone  if  desired. 

2.  Starch  and  Glycerine. — For  poisoning  from  poison  vine  or  poison 
bark,  first  bathe  the  parts  in  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  then  apply  a small 
quantity  of  starch  to  which  has  been  added  enough  glycerine  to  form  a paste. 
A physician  writes  that  he  has  never  known  this  remedy  to  fail- 

3.  Soda. — Either  baking  or  washing  so<la  mixed  with  enough  water 
to  form  a paste  will  usually  kill  the  poison  of  poison  ivy  vine  or  poison  oak 
in  2 or  3 days 

4.  Prescription  for  Oak  Poisoning.— In  California  poi.soning  from  the 
poison  oak  is  very  common.  A professor  at  the  city  of  AcklanU  in  that  state 
gives  us  the  following  prescription  which  is  to  be  applied  to  the  parts  3 ot 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


231 


4 times  a day.  It  consists  of  glycerine,  2 ounces;  and  grindelia  robusta,  2 
drams.  This  will  be  found  excellent  for  this  poisoning. 

5.  Sweet  Spirits  of  Nitre,  Lobelia  and  Olive  Oil. — Apply  sweet  spirits 
of  nitre,  tincture  of  lobelia,  and  olive  oil.  Clearweed  is  also  good.  Bruise 
and  rub  it  on  the  parts.  The  people  sending  these  receipts  live  at  Middle- 
field,  Ohio,  and  say,  “ We  have  used  these  remedies  so  we  can  recommend 
them.” 

6.  Wood  Betony  Plant. — Steep  the  wood  betony  plant,  including  the 
leaves  and  blossoms  if  it  is  in  bloom,  in  hot  water  and  apply  to  the  poisoned 
parts.  A lady  in  Brooklyn,  Ohio,  says,  “ I have  used  this  in  my  own  house- 
hold and  told  others  of  it, and  have  never  known  of  its  failing  to  give  relief 
in  a single  instance.” 

7.  Quick  Lime. — An  antidote  for  poisoning  by  dew,  poison  oak,  poison 
ivy,  etc.,  is  to  take  a handful  of  quick  lime,  dissolve  it  in  water,  let  it  stand 
half  an  hour,  then  paint  the  poisoned  parts  with  it.  Three  or  four  applications 
will  never  fail  to  cure  the  most  aggravated  cases. 

8.  Beans. — For  external  poisoning  take  the  leaves  of  the  common  soup 
bean  and  bruise  them  to  a pulp ; apply  to  the  affected  parts  and  change  every 
hour.  The  dry  beans  ground  up  and  mixed  with  v/ater  are  just  as  good. 

PEOPLE’S  HAIR  TONICS  AND  RESTORATIVES  and  HOME 
REMEDIES  FOR  BALDNESS  AND  DANDRUFF. 

1.  Quinine  Hair  Tonic. — Take  quinine  sulphate,  Y2  dram;  glycerine, 
% ounce ; alcohol,  2 ounces ; tincture  of  cantharides,  1 dram ; tincture  of  cap- 
sicum, Y2  dram;  arom.atic  ammonia,  4 drams;  and  bay  rum,  2 ounces.  First 
dissolve  the  quinine  in  the  glycerine.  Apply  twice  a week  to  keep  the  hair 
from  falling.  This  receipt  was  kindly  given  us  by  a barber  at  Hiram,  Ohio. 

2.  Hair  Tonic. — To  16  ounces  of  bay  rum  add  2 ounces  of  tincture  of 
cantharides,  ^4  ounce  sulphate  of  quinine  and  Vo  ounce  of  oil  of  rosemary; 
dissolve  in  enough  spirits  of  wine  to  make  it  smooth. 

3.  Hair  Tonic. — Put  20  grains  of  quinine  and  a tablespoonful  of  fine 
salt  into  a pint  of  best  bay  rum  and  add  an  ounce  of  tincture  of  cantharides. 
Apply  every  morning  and  night. 

4.  Sage  Tea. — Make  some  sage  tea  and  rub  on  the  scalp  every  night 
for  one  week  ; then  wash  the  hair  and  repeat.  It  is  claimed  this  will  grow 
hair  as  well  as  prevent  its  falling. 

5.  Borax  and  Camphor. — Take  a quart  of  boiling  water;  add  an  ounce 
of  pulverized  borax  and  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  capiphor ; apply  once  a 
week  with  a sponge  or  flannel  and  it  will  prevent  the  falling  of  hair. 

6.  Saltpeter. — To  a quart  of  water  add  a piece  of  saltpeter  the  size  of 
a hickory  nut  and  wash  the  head  daily. 

7.  Onion  Juice  and  Pearl  Ash. — To  a pint  of  water  add  1 gill  of  onion 
juice  and  one  ounce  of  pearl  ash  and  wash  the  hair  with  the  solution. 

8.  Onion. — Rub  the  bald  parts  of  the  head  with  an  onion. 

9.  Preventive  of  Baldness. — Take  two  ounces  of  castor  oil,  2 drams  of 
nil  of  rosemary,  15  drops  of  the  essential  oil  of  bitter  almonds  and  3 drams 
of  the  tincture  of  Spanish  flv.  Mix,  and  rub  a little  thoroughly  into  the  scalp. 
This  is  a preventive  for  baldness. 

10.  Sulphur  Water. — To  a quart  of  water  add  an  ounce  of  sulphur  and 
shake  frequently.  Wash  the  head  thoroughly  every  morning  with  the  clear 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


liquid  and  in  a few  weeks  every  sign  of  dandruff  will  be  gone  and  the  hair 
will  be  left  soft  and  glossy. 

11.  Borax  and  Camphor. — Wash  the  head  with  a mixture  composed  of 
an  ounce  each  of  borax  and  camphor  and  a pint-and-a-half  of  cold  water. 
After  each  washing  rub  in  a little  pure  olive  oil.  This  is  for  dandruff. 

12.  Olive  Oil. — Rub  a little  olive  oil  into  the  scalp  every  4 or  5 days. 

13.  Egg  Shampoo. — A shampoo  with  raw  egg  will  remove  all  the  dan- 
druff. 

14.  Borax  Water. — Wash  the  head  occasionally  with  a little  borax  water. 
This  will  thoroughly  clean  the  hair  and  remove  the  dandruff. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FRECKLES. 

1.  Bitter  Almonds  and  Barley  Flour. — Bitter  almonds  and  barley  flour, 
in  equal  parts,  applied  in  the  form  of  paste  will  remove  freckles. 

2.  Borax,  Sugar  and  Lemon  Juice. — Put  into  a bottle  % dram  of  pow- 
dered borax,  1 dram  of  sugar  and  2 ounces  of  lemon  juice.  Let  stand  for 
several  days,  then  rub  the  face  three  times  daily. 

3.  Glycerine  and  Lemon  Juice. — “ Tan  and  freckles  may  generally  be 

removed  with  equal  parts  of  glycerine  and  lemon  juice,”  writes  a lady  who 

is  in  the  habit  of  spending  her  summers  at  the  sea  shore  where  one  usually 

gets  a good  coat  of  tan. 

4.  Buttermilk. — Wash  the  face  every  morning  in  fresh  buttermilk,  then 
rinse  in  warm  water  and  dry  with  a soft  towel. 

5.  Horseradish. — Let  some  grated  horseradish  stand  for  five  hours  in 
some  very  sour  milk.  Use  this  as  a wash  every  night  and  morning. 

6.  Strawberries. — Crush  some  strawberries  and  rub  them  over  the  face 
at  night  just  before  going  to  bed. 

7.  Saltpeter. — Freckles  may  sometimes  be  removed  by  wetting  a piece 

of  saltpeter  and  rubbing  the  freckles  2 or  3 times  daily. 

8.  Borax  and  Lemon  Juice. — Add  a little  borax  to  some  pure  lemon 

juice.  Have  the  face  and  hands  clean  and  bathe  for  a long  while  each  day 
with  this  mixtiirr 

9.  Buttermilk. — One  of  the  best  things  for  freckles  is  to  apply  sour 
buttermilk  at  night,  let  it  dry  on  the  face  and  wash  off  in  the  morning. 

ACNE,  PIMPLES  AND  BLACKHEADS. 

Acne  is  an  inflammation  of  the  sebaceous  glands.  The  contents  of  these 
glands  projtv.t  above  the  surface,  forming  blackheads.  This  frequently 
occurs  at  the  time  of  puberty  and  often  afterwards.  Use  green,  or  castile 
soap  on  the  face  night  and  morning  and  follow  with  brisk  rubbing.  If 
this  irritates  you  can  use  cerate  or  emulsion  of  sweet  almonds.  From  1/10 
to  % grain  of  sulphurated  lime  is  good  taken  internally  three  times  a day. 

For  inflam.ed  acne  take  30  grains  of  iodide  of  sulphur  and  1 ounce  of 
simple  cerate ; mix,  and  apply  to  the  parts  night  and  morning. 

For  monthly  acne,  occurring  at  the  time  of  the  menses,  mix  1 dram  of 
sulphur,  1 ounce  of  glycerine  and  enough  water  to  make  8 fluid  ounces. 
Apply  2 or  3 times  daily  and  avoid  all  rich  foods.  You  can  also  take  20 
or  30  grains  of  sulphur  internally  3 times  a day  as  an  alterative;  or,  as  a 
laxj^tive,  take  from  1 to  2 drams  in  molasses  at  night. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Sulphur. — Take  out-door  exercise,  avoid  rich  foods,  and  three  times 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


233 


a week  take  a thimbleful  of  sulphur  in  a glass  of  milk  before  breakfast.  Be 
careful  not  to  take  cold  while  taking  the  sulphur. 

2.  Borax  Water. — Keep  the  bowels  open  and  sponge  the  face  every 
night  with  hot  borax  water. 

ECZEMA. 

Salt  Rheum — Impetigo — Intertrigo. 

This  name  covers  a number  of  skin  diseases.  It  is  a wide-spreading 
inflammation  of  the  outer  surface  of  the  skin  causing  numerous  little  vesicles 
upon  an  inflamed  and  irregular  surface.  Sometimes  these  vesicles  are  inter- 
mingled with  pustules,  then  it  is  called  impetigo.  Sometimes  the  outer  skin 
is  actually  thrown  off  leaving  a raw  moist  surface,  then  it  is  called  intertrigo. 

TREATMENT. — Avoid  salty  foods,  salt  fish,  pork,  corned  beef  and 
greasy  foods  such  as  bacon,  fried  dishes,  pastry  and  cheese.  Be  in  the  fresh 
air  as  much  as  possible  and  take  plenty  of  exercise.  You  should  use  rubber 
gloves  if  you  have  to  wash  dishes. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — If  on  the  head  the  hair  must  be  cut  close.  In 
the  early  stages  apply  oxide  of  zinc  ointment  night  and  morning.  This  should 
be  used  in  connection  with  black  wash  which  is  made  by  adding  1 dram  of 
calomel  to  1 pint  of  lime  water.  This  should  be  applied  just  before  the  zinc 
ointment  and  allowed  to  dry.  Use  a swab  to  apply  it  with. 

In  other  cases  powdered  oxide  of  zinc  is  dusted  over  the  part  if  the 
discharge  is  very  watery  and  profuse ; or,  the  following  ointment  may  be 
used.  Mix  1 ounce  of  bismuth  oxidii,  8 ounces  of  acidi  oleici  puri,  3 ounces 
of  cera  alba,  9 ounces  of  petrolati,  and  5 drops  of  olei  rosse.  Apply  to  the 
affected  parts.  It  is  best  to  have  just  half  of  the  quantity  given  put  up  at 
one  time. 

Sometimes  the  crusts  must  be  removed  by  poultices;  or,  if  on  the  face, 
anoint  with  olive  oil  containing  one  or  two  drops  of  phenol  to  the  ounce.  This 
is  to  soften  the  crusts  which  may  readily  be  removed  in  half  an  hour  with  soap 
and  water.  Do  not  use  soap  if  the  parts  are  too  much  inflamed. 

When  the  acute  form  has  passed  use  1 dram  of  ointment  of  tar  and  6 
drams  of  zinc  oxide  ointment.  Mix  these  and  apply  to  the  parts  to  excite 
the  skin  to  action. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  remedies  are  Hepar  Sulph.,  Graphites 
Sulph.,  Rhus  Tox.  and  Arsenicum.  (For  preparation  and  doses  see  “ Homeo- 
pathic Medicines  ” in  Nursing  Department.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  For  Eczema. — Apply  the  following  ointment  twice  daily.  Take  red 
precipitate,  1%  drams;  Venice  turpentine,  V ounce  and  fresh  butter  2 ounces. 
Also  take  blood  root.  1 ounce  and  yellow  dock  root,  1 ounce;  put  these  to- 
gether in  Vi  pint  each  of  alcohol  and  vinegar  and  let  stand  a week.  Apply 
this  twice  a day  also. 

2.  Milk  Crust. — For  milk  crust  give  sulphur  and  cream  of  tartar  inter- 
nally and  apply  either  glycerine  or  thick  cream  to  the  parts  externally. 

3.  Scald  Head. — Bran  water  is  a good  wash  for  the  head.  Or.  wash 
the  parts  with  warm  water  containing  corn  meal  or  oatmeal ; wipe  drv  and 
apply  a mixture  of  stramonium  ointment,  1 ounce;  and  carbolic  acid,  10 
grains.  Let  this  stand  over  night. 

4.  Sulphur,  Beef  Marrow,  Turpentine  and  Pepper. — Apply  an  ointment 


234 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


made  by  thoroughly  mixing  equal  parts  of  sulphur,  beef  marrow,  white  tur- 
pentine and  black  pepper.  The  parts  may  be  cleaned  with  oatmeal  water. 

5.  Oatmeal  Water,  Iodine,  Sweet  Cream  and  Carbolic  Acid. — A fine 
treatment  for  skin  diseases  is  to  cleanse  the  parts  with  oatmeal  water,  dry,  and 
bathe  with  tincture  of  iodine.  Let  this  dry  of  itself  and  apply  sweet  cream 
and  carbolic  acid.  One  drop  of  the  acid  should  be  added  to  a teaspoonful  of 
the  cream.  This  has  cured  many  obstinate  cases.  It  costs  but  little  to 
prepare  and  is  well  worth  trying. 

Physician’s  Remark. — Do  not  use  iodine  too  freely  nor  too  often. 

6.  Sassafras  and  Lard. — Boil  for  half  an  hour  a pound  of  swamp  sassa- 
fras bark  in  enough  fresh  water  to  cover  it.  Take  out  the  bark  and  use  the 
water  as  a wash.  Add  some  lard  to  some  of  the  water  and  simmer  until  the 
water  is  evaporated  and  after  each  washing  anoint  the  parts  with  the  lard. 
You  may  expect  a cure  in  4 or  5 days. 

7.  Strawberry  Leaves.— Lay  the  woolly  or  outer  side  of  strawberry 
leaves  upon  the  parts  affected.  If  laid  on  thick  and  occasionally  changed 
they  will  draw  out  the  inflammation  and  cure  tetter. 

8.  Sugar  of  Lead. — Put  ^2  teaspoonful  of  sugar  of  lead  into  water  and 
apply  freely. 

9.  Potato  Water. — Boil  potatoes  with  the  skins  on  and  apply  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Apply  3 or  4 times  a day.  “ I know  this 
to  be  a success,”  writes  a lady  from  Columbus,  Ohio. 

ITCH. 

Scabies. 

This  is  an  eruption  produced  by  a parasite  and  is  very  “ catching.”  It 
covers  the  body  in  parts  but  is  seen  chiefly  between  the  fingers  where  it  often 
makes  a raw  surface. 

Treatment. — Sulphur  ointment  is  a sure  cure.  This  should  be  applied 
at  night.  First  soak  the  parts  thoroughly  with  soap  and  water,  rub  with  a 
hard  rough  towel  to  uncover  the  parasites,  then  apply  the  ointment  thoroughly 
and  let  it  remain  on  all  night.  The  towel  used  should  at  once  be  boiled  to  kill 
the  parasites  and  prevent  the  spreading  of  the  disease. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Sulphur  and  Lard. — Apply  sulphur  ointment  which  is  made  by  taking 
two  parts  of  lard  and  one  part  of  milk  of  sulphur. 

2.  Sulphur  and  Lime. — To  five  parts  of  water  add  two  parts  of  sulphur 
and  a quart  of  freshly  slaked  lime.  Boil  in  a porcelain  dish,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  the  mixture  is  the  color  of  cinnamon.  Keep  well  corked  and 
apply  to  the  affected  parts  about  once  a day. 

3.  Sulphur. — Give  sulphur  three  times  a day  in  the  form  of  powder, 
tincture  or  pellets  and  apply  sulphur  ointment  to  the  affected  parts. 

4.  Blood  Root  and  Vinegar. — Keep  the  bowels  open.  To  relieve  the 
itching  and  dryness  of  the  skin  take  1 ounce  of  blood  root  and  ^2  pint  of 
vinegar;  steep  for  two  hours;  strain,  and  paint  the  affected  parts  once  or 
twice  a day  with  the  liquid.  Every  night  before  going  to  bed  apply  glycerine 
freely. 

BARBER’S  ITCH. 

Tineo  Sycosis. 

Carbolic  acid  may  be  applied  locally  but  it  is  likely  to  leave  a scar.  Mix 
1 dram  of  iodine  crystals  and  1 ounce  of  goose  grease  and  apply  night  and 
morning  until  some  redness  appears. 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


335 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Barber’s  Prescription. — The  following  treatment  is  from  a barber 
at  Hiram,  Ohio,  and  is  said  to  be  excellent  for  this  disease. 

Fluid. — Take  1 ounce  of  resorsin,  1 ounce  of  glycerine,  1 ounce  of  water, 
11/2  ounces  of  lac  sulphur,  I/2  ounce  of  cologne  and  4 ounces  of  alcohol.  To 
make  the  preparation  more  pleasant  dissolve  the  sulphur  in  V2  ounce  of  ether 
before  adding  to  the  mixture. 

Ointment. — Take  15  grains  of  tannic  acid,  % dram  of  precipitated  sul- 
phur and  5 drams  of  petrolatum. 

Directions. — Apply  the  liquid  several  times  a day  with  a soft  sponge  and 
bathe  the  parts  every  morning  with  hot  water.  The  ointment  is  not  to  be 
used  until  the  scabs  have  formed.  It  is  then  to  be  applied  immediately  after 
each  application  of  the  liquid.  The  purpose  of  the  ointment  is  to  keep  the 
parts  soft. 

2.  Lard,  Gunpowder,  Sulphur  and  Alum. — Cleanse  the  parts  with 
castile  soap  suds  and  apply  the  following  ointment.  Put  into  an  earthen  dish 
1/2  pint  of  unsalted  lard  or  fresh  unsalted  butter  and  add  2 tablespoonfuls  each 
of  gunpowder,  sulphur  and  alum,  each  powdered.  Stew  slowly  for  24  hours, 
strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

3.  Carbolic  Acid. — Take  a tooth  pick,  put  the  end  into  clear  carbolic 
acid  and  apply  to  each  pimple.  When  the  burning  stops  keep  the  sores  well 
greased  with  some  good  healing  salve.  A lady  writes  from  Independence, 
Iowa — About  seven  years  ago  my  son  had  this  disease  in  the  worst  form 
and  after  six  weeks’  treatment  with  one  of  our  best  doctors,  my  son  cured  it 
himself  with  this  treatment.” 

4.  Lard  and  Sulphur. — Apply  equal  parts  of  lard  and  sulphur. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — I believe  this  treatment  will  be  found  better  for 

the  common  itch  than  for  barber’s  itch. 

SHINGLES. 

Herpes-Zoster. 

Description  and  Symptoms. — This  disease  spreads  along  the  tracks  of 
certain  nerves  of  the  skin.  It  commences  at  the  spine  and  runs  around  the 
ribs  to  the  breast  bone.  It  also  appears  on  the  neck,  face  and  temples.  The 
disease  is  nearly  always  preceded  by  rheumatic  pains  or  neuralgia  in  the 
parts  affected,  fever,  and  weakness.  There  is  burning  in  the  parts,  then  red- 
ness, then  the  cluster  of  vesicles  appears.  Crusts  form  in  4 or  5 days  and 
this  ends  the  attack  unless  a new  crop  appears. 

TREATMENT. — I am  always  a little  afraid  of  the  use  of  strong  local  ap- 
plications in  this  disease.  Keep  the  bowels  open  with  salts,  eat  a light  diet 
and  meet  the  indications. 

Homeopathic  Treatm.ent. — The  second  dilution  of  Aconite,  the  first  dilu- 
tion of  Gelsemiuin,  and  the  third  trituration  of  Hepar  Sulph.  are  the  medicines. 
(See  “ Homeopathic  Medicines  ” in  Nursing  Department  for  preparation  and 
doses.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  RF^^EDH^S  — 

1.  Sassafras,  Burdock  and  Yellow  Dock. — Regulate  the  bowels  with  a 
mild  cathartic  and  take  freely  of  a decoction  of  sassafras,  burdock  and  yellow 
dock  root.  At  nieht  bathe  with  warm  saleratus  water. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — The  above  herbs  are  good  for  the  blood  and  liver. 

2.  Warm  Lard. — Bathe  the  affected  parts  with  warm  lard. 


236 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


3.  Elder  Flower  Ointment  and  Oxide  of  Zinc. — Use  an  ointment  made 
by  adding-  1 dram  of  oxide  of  zinc  to  1 ounce  of  elder  flower  ointment. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  is  a good  soothing  ointment. 

RINGWORM. 

Tinea  Circinata — Also  Ringworm  of  Neck  and  Head. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  locally  a strong  solution  of  borax.  This  is  also 
good  for  ringworm  on  the  neck  and  head. 

Another  good  treatment  is  to  mix  1 dram  of  iodine  crystals  with  one 
ounce  of  goose  grease.  Apply  this  night  and  morning  until  some  redness 
of  the  skin  appears  when  it  is  to  be  used  but  once  a day.  You  may  have  to 
use  it  for  weeks.  Turpentine  applied  with  a brush  is  also  very  good.  A 
bichloride  of  mercury  tablet  dissolved  and  applied  is  very  good.  Use  1 part 
of  mercury  to  500  parts  of  water.  It  is  poisonous  and  irritates  quickly.  Can 
generally  use  it  twice  a day.  Stop  when  it  makes  the  parts  sore.  Equal  parts 
of  tar  and  suet  are  good  but  tar  stains  badly.  Citrine  ointment,  1 part  and 
vaseline  7 parts,  is  also  good. 

Ringworm  on  the  Head — Tinea  Capitis. — Apply  lime  water  locally. 

Ringworm  on  the  Neck. — Apply  the  iodine  or  the  borax  as  directed  above. 
Pure  oil  of  cajeput  applied  locally  is  another  good  remedy. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Tobacco,  Lye  and  Vinegar. — Boil  tobacco  leaves ; add  strong  lye  and 
vinegar  to  the  liquid  and  apply  locally.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy. 

2.  Alcohol  and  Walnut  Hulls. — To  half  a pint  of  alcohol  add  a handful 
of  green  walnut  hulls  and  let  it  stand  five  or  six  days.  Apply  this  tincture 
externally  to  either  ringworm  or  tetter.  Also  put  a teaspoonful  of  this 
tincture  into  half  a tumblerful  of  water,  stir  it  well  and  take  a teaspoonful 
internally  every  hour.  Make  this  fresh  every  morning  and  take  for  3 or  4 
days. 

3.  Alum  and  White  of  Egg. — Make  a curd  by  mixing  alum  with  the 
white  of  an  egg  in  a vessel  over  the  fire.  One  or  two  applications  of  this 
will  cure  ringworm. 

1.  Indian  Corn. — Sprinkle  grains  of  Indian  corn  on  a red  hot  shovel 
and  press  them  with  a cold  flatiron.  The  corn  will  burn  and  leave  an  oil  on 
the  flatiron.  Rub  the  ringworm  with  this  oil. 

Remarks. — In  the  collection  of  these  home  recipes,  out  of  the  hundreds 
received,  it  is  but  natural  that  a few  of  a superstitious  nature  should  be 
received.  For  instance,  here  is  a recipe  for  ringworm.  “ Have  a pregnant 
woman  wash  the  afifected  parts  with  her  saliva  before  breakfast  with  her 
left-hand  little  finger  and  this  will  make  it  disappear.”  We  might  add  that 
this  is  to  be  mixed  with  an  equal  part  of  good  strong  faith  and  even  then 
we  believe  some  of  the  other  remedies  given  will  prove  more  satisfactory. 
All  recipes  of  this  character  we  have  carefully  eb’minated.  We  have  thus 
discarded  many  of  the  recipes  received,  some  of  which  may  be  good  in  many 
cases,  but  there  were  so  many  good  ones  that  we  have  kept  none  but  the 
very  best  and  they  will  be  found  of  real  practical  value. 

GANGRENE. 

Mortification. 

This  is  death  of  a part  of  the  body  in  a mass.  In  surgery,  when  referring 


SKIN  DISEASES. 


237 


to  the  death  of  bone  the  term  “ necrosis  ” is  generally  used.  There  is  the 
dry  and  the  moist  gangrene. 

Dry  Gangrene. — Dry  gangrene,  or  mummification,  is  a condition  pro- 
duced by  a loss  of  water  from  the  tissues.  The  skin  becomes  black  and 
wrinkled  and  is  often  of  a leather-like  hardness.  The  most  typical  form  is 
senile  gangrene,  or  gangrene  of  old  age.  This  occurs  in  the  lower  extremities, 
feet  and  toes  and  is  generally  due  to  hardening  of  the  arteries. 

Moist  Gangrene. — This  is  caused  by  a checking  of  the  blood  supply  or 
by  obstruction  of  the  return  of  the  blood  through  the  veins.  This  is  frequently 
caused  by  wounds,  fractures,  etc. 

TREATMENT. — For  dry  gangrene,  keep  up  the  strength  of  the  system 
and  ease  the  pain  if  possible. 

For  moist  gangrene,  have  a physician  keep  the  parts  thoroughly  cleansed 
with  disinfectants. 

Home  Remedy. — Dissolve  some  saltpeter  in  strong  vinegar,  dip  a cloth 
in  it  and  lay  on  the  affected  parts. 

PEMPHIGUS. 

This  comes  in  the  form  of  blebs,  or  watery  blisters.  The  acute  form 
is  attended  with  pretty  high  fever  and  the  patient  feels  quite  sick.  It  lasts 
about  two  weeks  and  is  sometimes  fatal.  This  disease  does  not  occur  often. 
TREATMENT.— 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Give  5 drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  of  arsenic  at 
meal  times. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — The  sixth  dilution  of  Rhus  Tox.  and  the  third 
dilution  of  Cantharis  given  every  hour  are  the  remedies.  (See  “ Homeopathic 
Medicines  ” in  the  Nursing  Department  for  preparation  and  doses.) 

PSORIASIS. 

This  is  a chronic  inflammation  of  the  skin.  It  causes  a mere  redness  and 
the  outer  skin  seems  to  get  sickly  and  drops  off  in  scales.  Use  an  ointment 
made  of  equal  parts  of  ammoniate  of  mercury  (hydrargyri  ammon)  and  lard. 
Apply  once  a day.  Also,  to  soften  the  scales  use  the  following  after  taking  a 
bath.  Take  1 dram  of  chrysarobin,  1 ounce  of  collodium  and  enough  ether 
and  alcohol  to  make  a solution.  Apply  to  the  affected  parts  with  a brush. 
Do  not  apply  it  to  the  face  and  do  not  use  it  if  there  is  a raw  surface. 

Take  5 drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  of  arsenic  3 times  a day. 

INGROWING  TOE  NAILS. 

Apply  solution  of  potassa  hydroxide  to  soften  the  nail.  Then  soak  a 
pledget  of  absorbent  cotton  in  strong  alum  water  and  place  this  under  the 
nail.  If  it  pains  much  to  do  this,  apply  pure  phenol  with  a brush  a few 
minutes  before  placing  the  cotton  under  the  nail.  This  will  ease  the  pain 
caused  by  turning  up  the  nail. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Scraping  Nail. — Scrape  the  top  of  the  nail  until  it  is  very  thin  and 
press  a small  piece  of  cotton  batting  under  it. 

2.  Lard  or  Tallow. — Hot  Urd  or  tallow  poured  under  the  side  of  the 
nail  is  an  execellent  remedy  for  this  trouble. 

3.  Care  of  Nails. — Trim  the  nails  straight  across ; do  not  cut  the  comers 


3S8 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


down  in  and  do  not  cut  the  cuticle  from  the  side  of  the  iiail.  Scrape  the  top 
of  the  nail  thin  and  cut  a notch  in  the  center.  This,  growing  together  pulls 
the  nail  away  from  the  sides  where  it  is  painful. 

LIVER  SPOTS. 

Apply  oxide  of  zinc  ointment  once  a day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  HIVES  OR  NETTLE  RASH. 

U rticaria — Wheals. 

1.  Camphor,  Saffron,  Etc. — Bathe  the  body  with  equal  parts  of  soft 
water  and  camphor.  Drink  a tea  made  of  saffron  and  spearmint  and  keep 
the  bowels  open  with  sulphur,  1 part;  and  cream  of  tartar,  2 parts;  mixed 
with  a little  molasses. 

2.  Saleratus  and  Salts. — Bathe  with  saleratus  water  and  keep  the  bowels 
open  with  salts. 

3.  Cream  of  Tartar  and  Sugar. — A teaspoonful  each  of  cream  of  tartar 
and  sugar  dissolved  in  a glassful  of  water  and  taken  each  morning  before 
breakfast  will  purify  the  blood  and  cure  the  hives. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Cream  of  tartar  acts  upon  the  kidneys  and  bowels. 

4.  Sweet  Oil  and  Lime  Water. — To  stop  the  itching  bathe  with  equal 
parts  of  sweet  oil  and  lime  water. 

5.  Twinberry  Bark. — Peel  the  bark  from  twinberry  branches ; make  a 
tea  and  drink  of  it  moderately  and  the  hives  will  disappear. 

6.  Alcohol  and  Rose  Water. — i'dix  IV2  ounces  of  alcohol  with  4 ounces 
of  rose  water  and  apply  externally. 

7.  Wheat  Flour  and  Saffron  or  Sage  Tea,  Etc. — Whenever  the  eruption 
appears  rub  the  body  with  wheat  flour  and  let  the  patient  drink  freely  of 
saffron  tea  or  sage  and  sassafras  teas.  When  getting  better  give  the  follow- 
ing physic.  To  three  parts  of  cream  of  tartar  add  one  part  of  sulphur;  mix 
with  molasses  and  give  a teaspoonful  three  times  a day  for  several  days. 
Or,  give  a dose  of  salts  or  senna. 

8.  Diet,  Etc. — Warm  saleratus  water  is  a good  application  for  the  skin. 
Drink  water  but  no  heating  drinks.  Eat  gruels,  dry  toast,  baked  apples  and 
stale  bread  but  no  meat. 

9.  Magnesia,  Cream  of  Tartar  and  Milk. — Mix  half  a teaspoonful  each 
of  magnesia  and  cream  of  tartar  in  half  a teacupful  of  milk  and  take  every 
morning  before  breakfast  until  cured. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  acts  on  both  the  kidneys  and  the  bowels. 

10,  Ginger  and  Rhubarb. — Mix  V2  pound  of  finely  powdered  ginger  with 
1 ounce  of  finely  powdered  rhubarb.  The  dose  for  children  is  about  half  a 
teaspoonful  and  for  grown  people  a teaspoonful  or  more. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  keeps  the  bowels  regular  and  casts  out  the 
poisons. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PRICKLY  HEAT. 

1.  Cream  of  Tartar,  Saleratus  Water,  Etc. — Give  cream  of  tartar  to 
cool  the  blood.  Half  a teaspoonful  once  a day  is  sufficient  for  a two-year- 
old  child.  Bathe  the  patient  in  warm  water  in  which  a little  soda  has  been 
dissolved.  Apply  fresh  unsalted  grease  to  the  pimples  and  dust  over  with 
pulverized  starch. 

2.  Soft  Soap. — Rub  some  common  soft  soap  into  the  parts  and  let  it  dry. 


DISEASES  DUE  TO  ANIMAL  PARASITES 


PIN  WORMS— THREAD  WORMS— SEAT  WORMS. 

(For  symptoms  see  “ Round  Worms.”) 

TREATMENT. — Tnject  soap  and  water  into  the  bowel  and  after  it  has 
passed,  inject  a pint  of  warm  water  in  which  there  has  been  boiled  from 
% to  1 ounce  of  quassia  chips.  I think,  though,  that  the  'following:  will  be 
found  better.  Put  1 ounce  of  quassia  chips  and  ounce  of  salt  into  a 
pint  of  water  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  Inject  very  slowly  all  that  the 
bowels  will  hold.  Repeat  once  a week  until  all  are  removed. 

Another  remedy  is  to  inject  an  infusion  of  garlic  for  two  or  three 
nights  in  succession.  Put  a small  bunch  of  garlic  into  a pint  of  water  and 
steep  down  to  pint. 

Cina  and  How  to  Use  It. — For  worms,  and  especially  pin,  or  seat,  worms, 
get  the  homeopathic  tincture  of  cina  and  give  1 drop  four  times  a day  until 
the  child  is  better.  Begin  again  whenever  necessary.  This  is  also  good  for 
worms  in  puppies.  You  can  give  them  2 or  3 drops  at  a time.  Cina  will 
also  destroy  round  worms  in  people.  For  these  you  should  give  about  3 
drops  4 times  a day.  It  seems  to  cut  the  worms  into  small  pieces.  It  is 
well  to  give  a physic  about  every  third  day  when  this  medicine  is  being 
used.  The  homeopathic  tincture  should  be  bought  of  a homeopathic  doctor 
or  at  a drug  store  where  they  keep  homeopathic  medicines. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Salt  Water. — Drink  salt  water  in  the  morning,  using  a tablespoonful 
of  salt  to  half  a pint  of  water.  Also  use  salt  water  as  an  injection. 

2.  Sulphur. — Take  a tablespoonful  of  sulphur,  or  enough  for  a laxative, 
and  it  will  bring  them  away.  A lady  at  Garrettsville,  Ohio  says,  “ I have 
tried  this  and  so  have  my  friends.” 

3.  Turpentine  and  Sugar. — A drop  of  turpentine  on  a teaspoonful  of 
sugar  is  good  when  troubled  with  worms. 

4.  Egg  Shells  and  Molasses. — Take  a quantity  of  egg  shells,  dry  them, 
pound  to  a fine  powder,  add  New  Orleans  molasses  to  make  a thick  paste 
and  take  V2  teaspoonful  three  times  a day.  The  lady  sending  this  receipt 
says,  “ I have  used  this  for  my  daughter  and  for  myself  and  the  results 
were  entirely  satisfactory.” 

5.  Wormseed  and  Molasses. — Mix  molasses  and  wormseed  and  give  to 
children  in  teaspoon ful  doses.  A grown  person  may  take  teaspoonfuls. 

6.  Spearmint  Tea. — Pin  worms  may  be  removed  by  using  spearmint 
tea  both  as  a drink  and  as  an  injection. 

7.  Boneset,  Etc. — Take  2 scruples  of  aloes,  15  grains  of  carbonate  of 
potassa,  3 fluid  drams  tincture  of  asafetida  and  Yo  pint  of  infusion  of  bone- 
set;  mix,  and  use  as  an  injection  for  pin  worms. 

8.  Balmony,  Mandrake  and  Asafenda. — To  C2  pint  of  water  add  4 
drams  of  balmony  and  2 drams  of  mandrake  root;  make  a decoction,  strain, 
and  add  3 fluid  drams  of  tincture  of  asafetida.  For  a child  2 or  3 years 
old,  use  about  half  of  this  quantity  at  a time  and  repeat  if  necessary. 

22Q 


240 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  LOOK. 


9.  Wormseed. — Use  wormseed.  The  oil  of  wormseed  is  best.  Give 
from  4 to  8 drops  with  sugar  morning  and  evening  for  4 days  in  succession, 
and  follow  with  a cathartic.  Or,  you  can  use  the  tincture  of  wormseed, 
giving  1 drop  4 times  a day. 

10.  Quassia. — Make  a tea  by  steeping  quassia  chips  in  water  for  12 
hours  and  use  this  as  an  injection. 

ROUND  WORMS. 

Symptoms. — Disturbed  sleep,  grinding  the  teeth  in  the  sleep,  irritable 
disposition,  changeable  appetite,  picking  the  nose,  red  cheeks  but  white 
around  the  mouth.  If  they  are  seat  worms  the  child  frequently  scratches 
the  rectum. 

Treatment. — Cina  is  a good  remedy  and  you  will  find  the  form  and  dose 
explained  in  the  treatment  of  pin,  or  thread,  worms. 

For  removing  round  worms  I generally  use  pills  made  of  equal  parts 
of  santonine  and  calomel.  Each  pill  should  contain  1/10  grain  of  each  of 
these.  Give  three  pills  a day  for  2 days ; leave  off  for  2 days ; give  again 
for  2 days  and  repeat  in  this  way  until  the  worms  are  all  eradicated.  After- 
wards I always  give  the  second  trituration  of  china  in  sugar  discs.  Take 
from  1 to  4 times  a day  for  a month. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Tansy  and  Boneset. — A tea  made  with  either  tansy  or  boneset  is 
an  excellent  remedy  for  worms. 

2.  Turpentine. — Give  from  10  to  30  drops  of  turpentine  in  a little  sweet- 
ened gruel.  Give  but  one  dose. 

3.  Pink  Root  and  Senna. — Make  a tea  of  equal  parts  of  pink  root  and 
senna  leaves,  sweeten  with  sugar  and  let  the  child  drink  freely  in  the 
morning. 

4.  Worm  Mixture. — Take  i/o  ounce  of  pink  root,  2 drams  of  senna, 
dram  of  savin  and  2 drams  of  manna;  mix,  and  steep  in  a pint  of  boiling 
water  and  strain.  The  dose  is  from  V2  to  2 fluid  ounces. 

5.  Garlic. — Give  % dram  of  garlic  juice;  or,  you  can  make  a syrup  from 
garlics  and  use  that.  If  used  too  freely  it  will  produce  flatulence,  headache 
and  fever. 

TAPE  WORM. 

Treatment. — Eat  no  food  for  18  hours  before  giving  the  remedy  and  for 
the  24  hours  before  this  the  diet  should  be  very  light.  After  giving  a tape 
worm  remedy  the  bowels  should  be  moved  with  salts. 

One  of  the  best  remedies  is  to  bruise  3 or  4 ounces  of  pumpkin  seeds 
and  then  allow  them  to  stand  in  water  for  12  or  14  hours.  Take  the  entire 
quantity  and  follow  with  a cathartic. 

A good  remedy  is  the  mixture  of  the  following  infusion  and  emulsion. 
To  make  the  infusion  take  V2  ounce  of  pomegranate  root,  1 ounce  of  pumpkin 
seeds.  1 dram  of  powdered  ergot,  and  10  ounces  of  boiling  water.  For  the 
emulsion  take  a drachm  of  the  etherial  extmct  of  male  fern  made  with 
acacia  powder  and  add  2 drops  of  croton  oil.  Mix  the  infusion  and  the 
emulsion  and  take  at  9 o’clock  in  the  morning  while  fasting.  The  previous 
day  you  should  have  eaten  very  little  and  you  should  have  taken  a dose 
of  salts  in  the  evening. 

Or,  take  from  V2  to  1 drachm  of  oleoresin  of  aspidium.  This  may  be 


DISEASES  DUE  TO  ANIMAL  PARASITES. 


241 


given  to  an  adult  in  emulsion  or  capsule  form  and  followed  in  4 or  5 hours 
with  epsom  or  rochelle  salts. 

Another  remedy  is  pelletierine.  From  3 to  5 grains  may  be  eiven  under 
the  same  conditions.  Castor  oil  can  be  given  for  this  but  not  after  oleoresin 
of  aspidium  has  been  given.  Castor  oil  aids  in  the  absorption  of  the  drug 
into  the  body  and  this  might  cause  poisoning. 

Another  remedy  is  to  make  a tea  of  the  bark  of  the  pomegranate  root. 
Take  3 ounces  of  the  bark,  macerate  in  10  ounces  of  water  and  then  reduce  • 
this  one-half  by  evaporation.  Give  the  entire  quantity  in  divided  doses. 
Follow  in  an  hour  with  a purge. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Blue  Flag. — The  juice  of  blue  flag  is  good  for  expelling  tape  worm. 

2.  Garlic. — Eat  garlic  and  salt  freely  and  every  other  day  give  a pur- 
gative of  mandrake  root  and  the  worm  will  vacate  the  premises. 

3.  Pumpkin  Seeds. — The  following  treatment  has  expelled  many  tape 
worms  and  is  almost  certain.  Eat  four  ounces  of  pumpkin  seeds  at  night  on 
an  empty  stomach.  The  next  morning  steep  the  same  quantity  of  seeds 
in  hot  water  and  drink  the  tea.  Eat  nothing  until  noon.  The  treatment 
may  be  repeated  the  next  night  but  it  is  seldom  necessary.  Follow  this 
with  a laxative. 

Remarks. — A woman  in  Berea,  Ohio,  says  her  sister  had  a tape  worm 
that  none  of  the  doctors  seemed  to  be  able  to  expel.  It  was  so  ravenous 
that  it  would  wake  her  several  times  a night.  To  allay  the  gnawing  she 
would  have  to  feed  the  tape  worm  by  eating  lumps  of  sugar.  She  tried  the 
pumpkin  seeds  and  expelled  many  yards  of  the  worm.  Pumpkin  seeds  are 
probably  the  best  remedy  known  for  expelling  tape  worms.  By  the  doctors 
they  are  called  “ pepo.” 


FLEAS. 

Nicotine  solution  is  good  and  can  be  bought  in  any  drug  store.  This 
is  also  good  for  insects  on  plants  and  flowers.  Nicotine  solution  is  made 
from  nicotine  which  is  a poison  contained  in  tobacco. 

LICE. 

Kerosene  will  kill  the  pests.  Rub  it  over  the  parts  thoroughly.  Equal 
parts  of  kerosene  and  lard  is  also  good. 

CRABS  OR  BODY  LICE. 

These  are  lice  on  the  hair  of  the  private  parts.  Use  either  mercurial 
or  blue  ointment.  It  must  be  rubbed  in  thoroughly. 


16 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT 

AND  MOUTH. 

(In  the  preparation  of  this  department  many  specialists  have  been  freely 
read  and  consulted.) 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE. 


INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  EYELIDS. 

Conjunctivitis. 

Description  and  Symptoms. — Conjunctivitis  is  inflammation  of  the  con- 
junctiva, or  under  covering  of  the  eyelid.  In  the  simple  catarrhal  kind  there 
is  a watery  discharge  and  in  the  purulent  kind  there  is  a pus  discharge. 
Granular  conjunctivitis,  or  granular  lids,  will  be  treated  separately. 

Treatment. — Cleanse  the  eye  thoroughly  and  drop  in  the  solution.  The 
following  is  a good  one  for  simple  conjunctivitis.  Take  4 grains  of  boric 
acid,  1 to  2 grains  of  zinc  sulphate,  1 grain  of  morphine  sulphate,  and  1 
ounce  of  rose  water;  mix,  and  drop  a few  drops  into  the  outer  corner  of 
the  eyes  twice  a day. 

Hot  steeped  tea  leaves  applied  to  the  lids  is  also  good,  as  is  a tea  made 
from  white  oak  bark. 

For  purulent  inflammation  of  the  lids  when  there  is  pus,  the  eyes  should 
be  kept  clean  and  the  solution  given  above  should  be  applied.  (Also,  see 
the  solution  given  in  the  Baby  Department.)  This  kind  of  inflammation 
is  dangerous  and  needs  good  careful  treatment  or  other  structures  of  the 
eye  will  become  diseased. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  WEAK  AND  INFLAMED  EYES. 

1.  Salt  Water. — One  of  the  very  best  remedies  for  weak  or  sore  eves 
is  to  bathe  them  3 or  4 times  a day  in  weak  salt  water.  This  is  nature’s 
own  remedy  for  the  tears  are  salty  as  we  all  know.  Many  eye  troubles  would 
be  avoided  if  mothers  would  see  that  the  children  used  this  simple  remedy 
upon  the  first  appearance  of  weak  eyes. 

2.  Chamomile  Flowers  and  Poppy  Heads. — For  inflammation  of  the 
lids,  once  or  twice  a day  use  warm  applications  of  either  chamomile  or 
poppy  heads. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — These  are  soothing  and  quieting,  thus  doing 
away  with  the  inflammation. 

3.  Basswood  Bark. — Scrape  very  fine  some  of  the  inner  bark  of  the 
root  of  linwood  or  basswood  and  fill  a tumbler  one-third  full.  Then  fill  the 
tumbler  with  rain  water  and  the  mixture  will  soon  thicken  like  jelly.  Place 
some  of  this  mucilage  between  two  thin  pieces  of  cloth  and  bind  upon  the 
eyes. 

4.  Elder  Flower  Tea  and  Laudanum. — To  a pint  of  soft  water  in  an 
earthen  dish  add  two  ounces  of  elder  flowers;  steep,  strain,  and  add  a tea- 
spoonful of  laudanum.  Bathe  the  eyes ; or,  if  they  are  very  painful,  wet 

242 


lll'  Al)  AND  Nl-.CK. 


a nn<l  c.  Salisriry  (ilaiids.  ( A.l't’cclrd  wlu-ii  one  lias  Mumps.) 

(i.  Artrry  nmniiiy  In  .\nsu.  ( I ’russiirc  <»n  this  aiiiTy  will  >lnp  iinso  Mucd.) 

'riiymid  (liaiid.  (AlTuclcd  when  one  has  (Joitre.) 
h.  Windpipe  oi  d'racdiea,  (Divides  forming  I’ronehial  Tnhes.) 

S"  Jngidar  Vein.  ( I’lne  above  “ k.”) 

S,  l.arge  .Arlery  of  N<'('k.  (f.arge  laal  Mood  vessel.) 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH.  243 


cloths  and  bind  on  at  nis^ht.  If  the  blood  is  bad  make  some  elder  flower 
tea  for  the  patient  to  drink. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — These  are  quite  soothing  and  healing:  in  their 
action  and  elder  flower  tea  is  cleansing:  to  the  blood. 

5.  Butter  and  Milk. — For  inflammation  of  the  edges  of  the  eyes  use 
this  treatment.  Melt  a little  fresh  butter  in  a teaspoonful  of  milk  and  wash 
the  eyes  when  they  are  glued  together  in  the  morning.  Afterwards  apply 
a wet  sponge  to  them  for  several  minutes  and  the  lids  may  be  opened 
without  pain. 

6.  Bread  Poultice. — Make  a poultice  of  bread  and  water  with  a little 
butter  added,  put  into  a small  bag  and  lay  over  the  eyes. 

7.  Hops,  Poppies  and  Stramonium  Leaves. — For  inflammation  of  the 
eyeball  apply  a poultice  of  either  hops,  poppy  leaves  or  stramonium  leaves. 

8.  Golden  Seal  and  Witch  Hazel. — Add  a dram  each  of  powdered 
golden  seal  and  witch  hazel  leaves  to  a gill  of  boiling  water.  Leave  the 
herbs  in  the  water  for  a quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain  and  bathe  the 
eyes  with  the  liquid. 

9.  Scraped  Potatoes. — Make  a poultice  of  some  finely  scraped  raw 
potato  and  apply  to  the  eyes  every  night  upon  going  to  bed.  Although  they 
are  unable  to  fully  explain  it,  physicians  have  to  admit  that  there  is  much 
of  value  in  the  raw  potato.  It  is  also  excellent  for  inflamed  sores  of  long 
standing. 

10.  Cold  Water  Cloths. — Often  all  that  will  be  found  necessary  to  cure 
inflamed  eyes  is  the  application  of  cold  water  cloths. 

11.  Belladonna. — Keep  a hot  compress  on  the  eye  wet  in  a solution 
made  by  putting  10  drops  of  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna  into  a tea- 
cupful of  hot  water.  The  compress  is  to  be  kept  wet  with  this  solution. 
Use  no  eye  washes.  “ Used  with  good  results  by  direction  of  Dr.  J.  H. 
Carm.ichael  of  Springfield,  Mass.”  This  is  from  a lady  living  in  that  city. 

12.  Golden  Seal. — Make  a tea  with  half  an  ounce  of  golden  seal  and  half 
a pint  of  boiling  water.  Bathe  the  eyes  with  this  each  night  before  going 
to  bed  and  you  will  be  surprised  at  the  results. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Hydrastis,  or  golden  seal,  is  astringent  and  con- 
tracts the  blood  vessels,  thus  lessening  the  flow  of  blood  to  the  eye  and 
relieving  the  inflammation. 

13.  Pith  of  Sassafras. — Cut  out  the  pith  of  sassafras  ."md  put  into  a little 
water,  causing  it  to  curdle.  This  is  an  excellent  eye  wysh  and  especially 
valuable  for  the  sticky  condition  caused  by  inflamniatio\ '.  This  remedy 
comes  from  one  of  the  instructors  at  Denison  University  wh'ch  is  located  at 
Granville,  Ohio.  The  remedy  can  be  relied  noon. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  makes  a mild,  oily  and  soothing  application. 

14.  Eye  Wash. — Boil  three  eggs  in  water  and  when  at  the  boiling 
point  add  % ounce  of  sulphate  of  zinc  and  allow  it  to  settle.  Use  the 
water  for  ii.flammation  of  the  eye  of  horse,  cattle  or  man.  For  the  human 
eye  it  should  be  reduced  by  adding  ten  parts  of  water. 

15  Poultice  of  Hops  and  Poppies. — Mash  some  hops  and  poppy  heads; 
boil  in  water  and  make  a poultice  for  the  eyes.  The  water  from  them  may 
be  used  for  an  eye  wash. 

16.  Garden  Rhubarb. — Squeeze  out  the  juice  from  the  root  of  the 
common  garden  rhubarb.  This  makes  an  excellent  wash  for  weak  and  in- 
flamed eyes  and  has  cured  many  cases. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


244 


17.  Alum  and  White  of  Egg. — Mix  some  powdered  alum  with  the 
white  of  an  egg,  place  between  two  cloths  and  bind  on  the  eyes.  This  is 
a very  effective  remedy  for  badly  inflamed  eyes.  It  is  well  to  cleanse  the 
blood  at  the  same  time  by  taking  equal  parts  of  salt  and  cream  of  tartar. 

18.  Tea  Leaves  and  Salt  Water. — Bind  some  steeped  tea  leaves  on  the 
eyes.  Also  bathe  the  eyes  in  weak  salt  water. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Tea  leaves  contain  tannin  which  is  astringent 
in  its  action.  This  causes  the  blood  vessels  to  contract,  less  blood  comes  to 
the  eyes  and  the  inflammation  is  reduced. 

19.  Sulphur  Water. — Put  sulphur  the  size  of  the  yolk  of  an  egg  in  a 
clean  cloth,  tie  well,  put  into  a cup  of  warm  water  and  bathe  your  eyes  with 
this  water,  taking  care  that  a little  of  it  gets  into  the  eyes. 

20.  Quince  Seeds. — Make  a strong  decoction  of  quince  seeds  and  wash 
the  eyes  twice  a day. 

21.  Cranesbill. — Wash  the  eyes  twice  a day  with  a strong  decoction 
of  cranesbill. 

22.  Golden  Seal,  Witch  Hazel  and  Lobelia. — Make  a strong  tea  by  boil- 
ing equal  parts  of  golden  seal  and  witch  hazel  bark  in  water  and  to  this  add 
an  equal  amount  of  tea  made  from  lobelia  leaves ; cover,  and  when  cold, 
strain  and  use  on  the  eyes. 

GRANULAR  EYELIDS. 

This  is  stubborn  and  needs  application  direct  to  the  inside  of  the  lids. 
Turn  the  inside  of  the  lid  out  and  apply  a stick  of  alum  to  the  granulated 
parts.  A stick  of  nitrate  of  silver  is  also  good  to  touch  them  with  but  is 
rather  dangerous  to  use  unless  you  are  very  careful. 

IRITIS. 

Inflammation  of  the  Iris  or  Dark  Part  of  Eye. 

This  may  be  caused  by  the  spreading  of  other  diseases  and  especially 
by  pus  inflammation  of  children.  It  may  also  be  caused  by  injury  to  the 
eye.  Iritis  may  cause  loss  of  sight  and  should  receive  careful  attention. 

Symptoms. — The  pain  in  the  ball  of  the  eye  is  hard  to  bear.  The  pain 
runs  from  the  eye  back  into  the  head.  Light  hurts  the  eye  and  it  feels  better 
when  the  patient  is  in  a dark  room.  The  sight  seems  blurred  and  the  eye 
runs  water  but  no  pus. 

TREATMEN^/'. — If  you  have  the  above  symptoms  you  should  see  a doc- 
tor and  in  the  meantime  you  should  keep  in  a dark  room.  Do  not  use  the  af- 
fected eye  at  all  Bind  some  hot  steeped  tea  leaves  over  it  or  apply  cloths 
wrung  out  of  het  tea  or  white  oak  bark  tea.  Any  mild  remedy  which  is  moist 
and  hot  will  keen  down  the  inflammation.  If  you  can’t  get  a good  doctor 
you  must  keep  the  pupil  dilated,  or  open,  so  that  adhesions  will  not  form. 
This  will  also  ease  the  pain.  For  this  purpose  apply  the  solution  given 
below  with  an  eye  dropper.  Open  the  lids  and  drop  a few  drops  between 
them.  Do  this  once  or  twice  a day  or  once  in  two  or  three  days.  It  should 
be  done  often  enough  to  keep  the  pupils  comfortably  dilated.  If  you  u.se 
too  much  the  throat  will  become  dry  and  contract.  The  solution  is  made 
by  adding  from  % to  4 grains  of  atropine  to  an  ounce  of  water.  The  amount 
of  the  atropine  to  be  used  depends  upon  the  severity  of  the  attack  and 
the  age  of  the  patient.  Use  salts  to  keep  the  bowels  open. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — At  the  beginning  give  the  second  dilution  of 


I 

DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH. 

Aconite  and  this  should  be  followed  by  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna. 
(For  preparation  and  doses  see  “Homeopathic  Medicines”  in  Nursing  De- 
partment.) 

STYE. 

Hordeolum. 

This  generally  gets  well  of  itself  but  hot  moist  applications  help.  Paint 
It  with  strong  oak  bark  tea,  strong  black  tea,  or  a weak  solution  of  tincture 
of  iodine  and  water.  Be  careful  not  to  get  any  into  the  eye. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  third  dilution  of  Pulsatilla  inter- 
nally. Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  1 or  2 teaspoon- 
fuls every  2 hours  for  a week.  This  is  especially  good  when  the  stye  keeps 
returning.  Keep  the  bowels  open  with  salts. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Tea. — Put  a teaspoonful  of  tea  into  a small  bag,  moisten  with  hot 
water  and  bind  on  the  eye  before  going  to  bed. 

2.  Ice — Bread  and  Milk  Poultice. — Ice  will  check  it  if  applied  upon 
first  appearance.  Apply  bread  and  milk  poultice  to  bring  it  to  a head. 

3.  White  of  Egg. — Wet  the  edges  of  the  lid  with  the  «white  of  an  egg. 

4.  Lean  Beef. — Bind  on  a piece  of  lean  beef. 

5.  Salty  Grease. — When  soreness  is  first  felt,  touch  the  surface  with  • 
a little  salty  grease.  (Settlings  of  meat  fryings  is  best.)  Two  or  three  ap- 
plications are  necessary.  It  will  smart  a little  but  will  not  injure  the  eye. 

FILM  ON  SIGHT. 

Pterygium. 

Rub  over  it  a stick  of  smooth  alum  or  blue  stick.  Be  careful  not  to 
touch  any  part  of  the  eye.  If  it  grows  over  the  pupil  it  must  be  taken 
of¥.  This  is  very  easily  done  by  an  eye  surgeon.  It  needs  only  the  use  of 
cocaine  to  deaden  the  sensibility.  Alum  or  blue  stick  v/ill  often  stop  their 
growing.  Of  course  the  rubbing  must  be  carefully  done.  Keep  the  eye- 
lids open  a few  minutes  after  the  application  so  as  not  to  get  any  upon  other 
parts  of  the  eye.  Nitrate  of  silver  stick  is  quite  good  but  it  is  severe  and 
needs  an  expert  to  apply. 

CATARACT. 

This  occurs  when  the  lens  of  the  eye  becomes  opaque.  Foreign  ma- 
terial grows  in  it  .so  that  the  light  cannot  get  through. 

Treatment. — The  only  thing  to  do  is  to  let  it  get  “ ripe  ” and  then  have 
it  taken  out.  The  operation  is  very  successful.  Glasses  are  needed  after- 
wards and  the  patient  is  a new  person.  The  operation  is  usuallv  performed 
in  a very  few  minutes.  Cocaine  is  usually  dropped  into  the  eye  and  this 
makes  the  operation  almost  free  from  pain.  When  the  cataract  is  the  result 
of  injury  to  the  eye  the  outlook  is  not  so  good. 

THINGS  IN  THE  EYE. 

(See  “ Accidents  and  Emergencies.”) 

CROSS  EYES. 

These  should  always  be  attended  to  when  the  child  is  young.  Go  to 
a competent  eye  specialist.  No  parent  has  a right  to  let  a child  grow  up 
with  cross  eyes. 


246 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


EYE  STRAIN  AND  GLASSES. 

Whenever  any  one  complains  of  pain  in  the  eyes  and  head,  or  back  of 
the  e}^es,  or  squints  after  reading,  or  complains  of  the  eyes  hurting  or 
tiring  easil}^  after  reading;  or,  if  the  eyes  are  continually  watering;  then 
the  chances  are  that  that  person  needs  glasses.  If  glasses  are  not^ properly 
fitted  they  will  injure.  If  they  fit  well  they  will  do  a world  of  good. 

The  health  of  children  is  often  injured  because  they  have  no  glasses 
or  because  their  glasses  do  not  fit  properly.  They  become  nervous  and  irritable 
and  are  often  troubled  with  neuralgia  or  headaches.  The  fitting  of  glasses 
is  an  art  in  itself  and  you  should  go  to  none  but  a competent  man.  Never 
read  when  there  is  a poor  light  or  when  the  light  keeps  flickering.  Too 
bright  a light  is  also  injurious  and  especially  a light  that  shines  directly 
into  the  eyes  from  in  front.  Let  the  light  shine  over  the  shoulder;  or,  if  you 
sit  facing  it  be  sure  to  have  a green  shade  over  it.  Do  not  sit  stooped  over 
when  reading  or  studying  or  the  eyes  will  become  filled  with  blood  and 
congested.  People  seldom  appreciate  good  sight  until  they  begin  to  have 
trouble  with  their  eyes. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EAR. 


EARACHE. 

Children  are  afflicted  with  this  painful  disease  oftener  than  adults. 
It  frequently  occurs  with  infectious  diseases  like  scarlet  fever  and  grip. 

Causes. — Besides  coming  with  infectious  diseases  it  frequently  comes 
from  a cold  and  the  ear  becomes  terribly  inflamed  and  painful.  Some  people 
are  very  much  subject  to  ear  troubles. 

Treatment. — Simple  earache  in  adults  can  generally  be  relieved  by  hot 
applications.  Hot  salt  bags  are  good  and  so  are  flaxseed,  hop,  or  bread  and 
milk  poultices.  A little  laudanum  may  be  added  to  a bread  and  milk  poultice 
with  good  results.  Hot  water  dropped  into  the  ear,  or  a few  drops  of 
laudanum,  often  gives  relief.  Mullein  oil  is  also  very  good.  Or,  you  can 
roast  an  onion  in  the  coals,  take  out  the  heart  and  insert  in  the  ear  and 
bind  the  rest  of  the  onion  on  the  outside. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Onions  and  Tobacco. — Chop  up  onions  and  strong  tobacco,  using 
half  as  much  tobacco  as  onions;  wrap  in  a wet  cloth  and  roast  in  the  ashes. 
Squeeze  out  the  juice  and  put  3 or  4 drops  into  the  ear  and  it  will  give  almost 
instant  relief. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Onions  alone  are  good  and  tobacco  is  quieting 
to  the  nerves  so  these  two  will  be  found  a good  combination. 

2.  Bitter  Herbs  and  Hop  Poultice. — Steam  the  ear  and  side  of  the  head 
over  bitter  herbs  or  apply  a hop  poultice. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Hops  are  quieting  and  the  heat  and  moisture 
are  soothing  and  relieve  the  congestion. 

3.  Garlic,  Honey,  Sweet  Oil  and  Laudanum. — Roast  two  garlics,  mash 
them  while  hot  and  add  half  a tablespoonful  each  of  honey,  sweet  oil,  and 
laudanum.  Squeeze  out  the  juice  and  occasionally  drop  a little  into  the  ear. 
This  will  be  found  to  be  a valuable  remeclv. 

4.  Sweet  Oil,  Glycerine  and  Laudanum. — Wrap  a hot  brick  or  stone 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH.  247 


with  a damp  cloth  and  place  it  to  the  ear,  thus  steaming  it  freely.  To  a tea- 
spoonful each  of  sweet  oil  and  glycerine  add  10  drops  of  laudanum;  warm 
the  mixture,  and  put  three  or  four  drops  into  the  ear. 

5.  Warm  Water. — Pour  a teaspoonful  of  warm  water  into  the  ear  and 
soon  afterward  let  it  run  out. 

6.  Laudanum  and  Sweet  Oil. — Use  equal  parts  of  laudanum  and  sweet 
oil;  have  it  slightly  warm  and  put  two  drops  into  the  ear. 

7.  Laudanum,  Glycerine  and  Olive  Oil. — Mix  equal  parts  of  laudanum, 
glycerine  and  olive  oil ; warm,  put  two  or  three  drops  into  the  ear  and  fill 
with  cotton. 

8.  Garlic  and  Salad  Oil. — Steep  a small  piece  of  garlic  in  some  salad  oil, 
roll  up  in  a thin  cloth  and  insert  in  the  ear.  When  taken  out,  fill  the  ear 
with  cotton  so  it  will  not  get  cold. 

9.  Onion  Poultice. — Place  an  onion  in  the  fire  completely  buried  in 
hot  ashes.  When  it  can  be  pierced  with  a fork,  remove  the  peel  and  open  and 
remove  the  heart  and  place  it  in  the  ear  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  Spread  the 
rest  of  the  onion  on  a cloth  and  bind  on  the  outside  of  the  ear.  A mother 
writes,  “ I have  used  this  many  times  and  it  never  fails  to  bring  relief  to  the 
little  one  suffering  with  earache.” 

Physician's  Remarks. — The  moisture  and  heat  are  soothing  and  this 
makes  a good  poultice  to  relieve  the  congestion.  You  will  notice  I have 
recomm.ended  this  above  as  one  of  my  own  treatments. 

10.  Mullein  Oil. — Two  or  three  drops  of  mullein  oil  will  be  found 
effective. 

11.  Laudanum,  Sweet  Oil,  Honey  and  Cayenne. — To  equal  parts  of 
laudanum,  sweet  oil  and  honey  add  a little  tincture  of  cayenne;  mix,  and 
from  a warm  teaspoon  drop  into  the  ear  5 or  6 drops  of  the  mixture  and  stop 
the  ear  tight  with  cotton.  Repeat  every  hour  or  two.  If  the  pain  is  very 
great,  steam  the  ear  and  side  of  the  head  over  bitter  herbs  and  apply  a hot 
fomentation  of  hops  or  a poultice  made  of  roasted  onions.  Bathe  the  feet 
in  hot  water  and  take  an  active  cathartic. 

12.  Paregoric. — Soak  a cracker  in  warm  water,  pour  on  a little  paregoric 
and  apply  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 

13.  Peach  Seeds,  Glycerine  and  Sweet  Oil. — Take  the  kernels  from  9 
peach  seeds,  pound  them  up  fine,  put  into  a small  vessel  and  add  one  table- 
spoonful of  glycerine  or  sweet  oil  and  cook  until  the  kernels  are  of  a dark 
brown  color;  then  strain  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  The  dose  is  one  or  two 
drops  in  the  ear.  Repeat  every  hour,  if  necessary,  until  relieved.  The 
person  sending  this  recipe  adds:  “This  is  a sure  and  tried  remedy  as  we 
have  used  it  in  our  family  for  sixteen  years  and  have  never  had  to  use  it  over 
three  times  in  any  case.  When  you  haven't  the  sweet  oil  or  the  glycerine 
as  called  for  you  can  use  castor  oil.” 

14.  Hot  Applications. — The  application  of  warmth  by  the  means  of 
dry  heat  or  poultices  or  fomentations  will  generally  tend  to  relieve  the 
severity  of  the  pain. 

Ph5^sician’s  Remarks. — Heat  and  moisture  do  this  by  relieving  the  con- 
gestion and  inflammation. 

15.  Black  Pepper  and  Sweet  Oil. — Put  a little  black  pepper  into  a small 
piece  of  cotton,  add  a drop  of  sweet  oil,  roll  up  tight  so  that  the  pepper  can- 
not get  out  and  insert  this  in  the  ear. 

16.  Steaming  Ear. — Put  the  patient's  feet  in  water  as  hot  as  can  be 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


;e-i8 

borne  and  keep  them  there  for  15  minutes.  Put  a drop  of  slightly  warmed 
sweet  oil  into  the  ear  and  put  the  patient  to  bed.  Take  a hot  flatiron,  wrap 
a wet  cloth  around  it  and  then  a dry  one  and  place  it  to  the  ear.  This 
treatment  will  bring  relief  almost  instantly. 

1?.  Olive  Oil,  Peppermint,  Pennyroyal,  Etc. — Take  equal  parts  of  olive 
oil,  peppermint  oil,  pennyroyal,  wintergreen  oil,  rosemary  oil  and  laudanum 
and  apply  sparingly. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  EAR. 

(Also  Mastoid  Disease.) 

Symptoms. — There  is  fever,  pain,  sweating  and  swelling  in  front  and  be- 
hind the  ears.  When  pus  forms,  and  especially  in  the  mastoid  cells,  there 
is  very  great  danger  and  there  may  be  unconsciousness.  In  some  cases 
the  symptoms  are  masked  and  this  makes  all  the  more  care  necessary.  By 
examining  the  drum  you  will  see  it  bulging  if  the  middle  ear  is  diseased. 
If  this  is  the  case  the  drum  must  be  punctured  to  let  out  the  pus.  This  wil) 
relieve  the  patient  wonderfully. 

TREATMENT. — Inflammation  of  the  ear  from  any  cause  needs  careful 
watching  and  treatment  for  fear  that  mastoid  disease  will  develop.  If  bad 
symptoms  come  on  you  must  have  the  mastoid  opened  and  it  should  be  done 
early.  If,  from  the  beginning,  there  are  symptoms  of  the  blood  being  poisoned, 
patient  is  dull,  stupid,  and  but  partially  conscious,  then  you  should  have  a 
surgeon  see  the  case  at  once.  The  mastoid  cells  are  very  near  the  brain  and 
trouble  in  this  region  is  dangerous.  Ex-Senator  Conklin,  of  New  York,  died 
of  mastoid  disease. 

Apply  hot  applications  and  poultices  but  no  laudanum  as  you  do  not 
want  to  cover  up  the  pain  and  bad  symptoms.  A patient  with  inflammation 
of  the  ear  must  be  very  carefully  watched.  The  homeopathic  treatment  is 
excellent.  Use  hot  applications  and  also  the  homeopathic  treatment. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Use  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite  every  half 
hour  at  the  beginning.  After  24  hours  use  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna 
in  the  same  way.  Use  the  third  trituration  of  Hepar  Sulph.  in  alternation 
with  the  Belladonna.  If  you  fear  pus,  use  the  third  trituration  of  Mercurius 
Sol.  in  place  of  the  Hepar  Sulph.  These  having  done  splendid  work  for  me. 
(For  preparation  and  doses  see  “ Homeopathic  Medicines  ” in  the  Nursing 
Department.) 

CHRONIC  DISCHARGE  FROM  THE  EAR. 

This  should  have  attention.  Remember  that  the  ear  that  constantly  dis- 
charges is  a danger  to  any  one  for  the  trouble  will  go  back  to  the  mastoid 
cells. 

Frequently,  using  warm  water  with  a syringe  will  do  good.  If  the  dis- 
charge has  a bad  odor,  use  a few  drops  of  carbolic  acid  in  a teacupful  of 
water  and  syringe  the  ears  twice  a day.  After  syringing  you  should  dry 
the  ear  thoroughly  with  cotton  or  wear  cotton  in  the  ear.  If  the  discharge 
continues  it  must  have  special  attention  or  the  person  will  become  deaf.  The 
drum  may  be  eaten  so  that  it  will  not  heal.  The  patient  who  has  continual 
discharges  from  the  ears  is  frequently  run  down  in  health.  Give  tonics  and 
in  pleasant  weather  keep  the  patient  out  doors  in  the  air  and  sunshine. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Four  times  a day.  take  a tablet  of  the  third 
trituration  of  Mercurius. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH.  249 


DEAFNESS. 

Deafness  and  hardness  of  hearing  frequently  come  from  the  catarrhal 
condition  produced  by  growths  in  the  nose  and  throat.  Ha\e  these  growths 
removed  and  you  will  be  a new  person.  Also  have  the  ears  syringed  to 
remove  the  wax. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Olive  Oil,  Etc. — Where  there  is  wax  to  be  removed,  put  a few  drops 
of  the  following  mixture  into  the  ear  once  or  twice  a day.  Mix  % ounce  of 
olive  oil,  11/2  drams  of  glycerine  and  15  drops  of  sassafras.  If  the  ear  is  too 
dry  use  the  following : oil  of  turpentine,  % dram ; glycerine,  1 dram  and 
linseed  oil,  % ounce.  Or,  if  you  have  the  ear  syringed  the  wax  will  come  out. 

2.  Bay  Salt. — Put  a large  tablespoonful  of  bay  salt  into  half  a pint  of 
cold  spring  water.  Let  it  stand  24  hours,  occasionally  shaking  the  bottle. 
Each  night  after  going  to  bed  pour  a small  teaspoonful  into  the  ear  and  re- 
peat for  6 or  8 nights. 

3.  Sweet  Clover  and  Hen’s  Oil. — Put  a handful  of  the  sweet  clover  which 
is  raised  in  gardens  into  a gill  of  hen’s  oil  and  stew  until  the  strength  is  out 
of  the  clover,  then  strain  and  bottle.  Syringe  the  ears  twice  a day  with  soap 
suds  and  then  put  in  3 or  4 drops  of  the  oil. 

4.  Syringing. — Deafness  is  frequently  caused  by  hardened  ear  wax. 
Have  the  ears  syringed  out. 

5.  Goose  Grease. — Put  one  or  two  drops  of  goose  grease  into  the  ear 
twice  a day.  ‘ 

6.  Mullein  Oil. — Put  a drop  or  two  of  mullein  oil  into  the  ear.  This  is 
also  good  for  earache. 


THINGS  IN  THE  EAR. 

(See  “ Accidents  and  Emergencies.”) 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NOSE. 

Nasal  catarrh  and  hay  fever  both  affect  the  lining  membrane  of  the  nose 
passages.  These  will  be  found  thoroughly  treated  under  “ Diseases  of  Res- 
piration.” 


NOSE  BLEED. 

(See  “ Accidents  and  Emergencies.”) 

THINGS  IN  THE  NOSE. 

(See  “ Accidents  and  Emergencies.”) 

GROWTHS  IN  THE  NOSE. 

(Polypi,  etc.) 

Many  people  have  growths  in  the  nose  which  should  be  removed.  Of 
course  cancers  may  come  in  the  nose  the  same  as  anywhere  else  in  the  body 
and  the  only  treatment  is  removal  but  the  growths  we  refer  particularly  to 
are  far  more  common  than  cancers.  A polypus  is  a fleshy  growth  in  the  nose. 
The  septum,  or  division  between  the  nasal  passages,  is  often  diseased  and 
enlarged  as  are  the  turbinated  and  other  bones  of  the  nose.  The  nasal  pass- 
ages become  partially,  or  almost  completely,  closed  by  these  growths  and  it 
becomes  difficult  for  the  patient  to  breathe  through  the  nose  so  he  goes  around 


260 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


with  his  mouth  open  and  breathing  through  it ‘and  is  thus  more  subject  to 
disease  than  one  who  breathes  through  the  nose.  These  growths  cause 
catarrh  which  in  turn  causes  headaches,  sore  throat,  and  hardness  of  hearing. 
Many  children  grow  dull  and  stupid  because  of  these  growths.  Have  them 
removed  and  see  what  a change  it  will  make  in  the  patient. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  THROAT. 


TONSILITIS, 

(Including  Quinsy.) 

Description. — Acute  tonsilitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  tonsils.  It  is 
accompanied  with  great  swelling  of  their  tissues  and  associated  with  pharyn- 
gitis. There  is  the  follicular  and  the  diffuse  form  of  tonsilitis.  The  follicular 
form  is  distinctly  infectious,  that  is,  you  can  take  it  from  another.  This  kind 
is  rare  in  young  children  but  more  common  between  the  ages  of  5 and  20 
years.  Some  suffer  from  frequent  attacks  until  they  are  25  or  30  years  old. 
The  follicular  kind  is  not  common  in  adults  but  the  diffuse,  or  suppurating, 
form  (quinsy)  is  frequently  met  with  in  adults.  People  who  breathe  through 
the  mouth  are  very  much  subject  to  it  and  one  attack  makes  a person  more 
liable  to  another. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  throat  is  sore  with  a sense  of  swelling  or  tightening. 
The  patient  has  a chilly  feeling  and  frequently  has  aching  and  pain  in  the  limbs. 
There  is  a violent  headache  and  the  fever  rises  to  between  103  and  105  in  a 
few  hours.  The  patient  rarely  vomits  or  is  sick  at  the  stomach.  (See  “ Scarlet 
Fever.”)  On  examining  the  throat  the  tonsils  are  found  to  be  swollen  and  the 
swelling  frequently  extends  as  far  across  the  fauces  as  the  uvula,  or  part  of  the 
soft  palate  which  hangs  down  in  the  throat.  Frequently  the  tonsils  are  so 
swollen  as  to  press  against  each  other.  They  look  very  red  and  are  covered 
with  a whitish-yellow  or  grayish  covering  and  they  are  often  very  foul  looking. 
In  diphtheria,  if  this  membrane  or  covering  is  removed,  a raw  or  bleeding 
surface  is  left  but  in  tonsilitis  the  surface  is  left  smooth  and  glistening.  (See 
the  table  showing  the  comparison  of  diseases.) 

In  tonsilitis  the  breath  is  very  foul  and  the  odor  may  fill  the  room.  The 
swelling  of  the  glands  of  the  neck  and  the  stiffness  of  the  muscles  make  exanii- 
nation  of  the  throat  very  painful. 

Symptoms  of  Quinsy. — In  quinsy,  or  the  suppurating  form  of  tonsilitis, 
the  general  indications  are  often  less  severe  but  the  local  pain  is  often  very 
severe.  Opening  the  mouth  may  be  very  painful  and  is  sometimes  impossible. 
The  tonsil  is  sometimes  enormously  enlarged  but  is  rarely  dotted  with  spots. 
It  may  be  smooth  and  glistening  instead.  The  swelling  often  extends  to  the 
uvula  which  mav  be  so  swollen  and  lengthened  as  to  cause  great  distress. 

treatment!'— 

The  treatment  is  largely  the  same  for  both  kinds  of  tonsilitis. 

Preventive  Treatment. — Keep  from  taking  cold  and  if  necessary  have  the 
tonsils  or  adenoids  removed. 

Emergency  Remedy  or  “ What  to  Do.” — Gargle  the  throat  frequently  with 
hot  water  or  steam  the  patient’s  throat  as  described  later.  Sweat  the  patient 
and  give  him  a cathartic.  Salts  are  the  best  cathartic  in  this  disease.  Follow 
instructions  given  for  nursing. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH.  251 


Caution  or  “ What  Not  to  Do.’’ — Do  not  take  cold.  In  gargling  the  throat 
do  not  swallow  the  liquid  or  much  of  the  mucus  or  secretion  will  also  be 
swallowed.  Do  not  eat  solid  foods. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — In  the  early  stages  give  1/500  of  a grain  of 
biniodide  of  mercury  every  half  hour  until  10  doses  have  been  taken.  After 
the  first  stage,  for  an  adult,  give  from  10  to  20  drops  of  tincture  of  iron  chloride 
every  three  to  four  hours.  This  should  be  well  diluted  with  water  and  should 
be  taken  through  a tube  so  as  not  to  injure  the  teeth.  Also  take  with  it  10 
grains  of  citrate  of  potash.  Another  good  remedy  to  take  from  the  beginning 
is  Parke-Davis  & Co.’s  tonsilitis  tablet,  triturate  No.  645.  Give  one  tablet 
every  to  3 hours  according  to  age.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy.  Chloral 
hydrate  is  good  for  this  disease.  Put  IC2  drams  into  l^oz.  of  water  and  apply 
frequently  with  a camel’s-hair  brush.  Do  not  swallow  this  medicine  or  it  will 
make  you  sleepy. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — I have  found  the  homeopathic  treatment  very 
effective  in  the  treatment  of  tonsilitis. 

For  the  first  24  hours  give  the  second  dilution  of  Aconite.  Put  10  or  15 
drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  take  2 teaspoonfuls  every  % to  3 hours. 
About  the  second  or  third  day  when  the  patient  is  sweating  give  the  third 
dilution  of  Belladonna  in  the  same  dose  and  prepared  in  the  same  way  as 
the  Aconite.  When  the  fever  has  gone  down  somewhat  and  the  tonsil  is 
large  and  red  you  may  alternate  the  third  trituration  of  Hepar  Sulphur  with 
the  Belladonna.  If  the  tonsils  seem  soft,  the  jaw  stiff,  and  the  patient  is 
hardly  able  to  open  the  mouth,  use  the  third  trituration  of  Mercurius  Sol. 
alternately  with  the  Belladonna  instead  of  the  Hepar  Sulph.  If  there  is 
much  saliva  and  the  above  symptoms  use  the  Mercurius  Sol.  alone. 

Nursing  and  Diet. — A very  good  thing  to  do  in  tonsilitis  from  the  be- 
ginning is  to  gargle  frequently  with  water  as  hot  as  it  can  be  borne.  This  not 
only  reduces  the  swelling  but  it  is  thought  it  aids  somewhat  in  getting  rid  of  the 
germs.  Do  not  swallow  anything  you  are  gargling  the  throat  with  as  it  con- 
tains mucus  and  germs.  After  gargling  thoroughly  with  the  hot  water  you 
can  use  Dobell’s  solution  with  much  benefit.  This  may  be  used  as  a spray 
for  the  throat  and  nose  or  it  may  be  diluted  three  times  with  water  and  used 
as  a gargle.  Here  is  the  formula  for  this  solution.  To  a pint  of  water  add  1 
dram  of  borax.  2 drams  of  common  baking  soda  and  24  grains  of  carbolic  acid. 

As  an  aid  in  the  treatment  of  tonsilitis  and  sore  throat  with  much  swell- 
ing, and  especially  when  it  seems  as  though  the  tonsil  were  going  to  break,  it 
is  well  to  steam  the  patient’s  throat  in  the  following  manner.  It  will  be  better 
than  poultices  and  less  bother.  Attach  a piece  of  hose  to  the  spout  of  a tea- 
kettle of  boiling  water.  If  you  have  no  hose,  take  a tube  or  roll  of  paper,  put 
one  end  over  the  spout  and  the  other  end  of  the  tube  or  hose  in  the  mouth 
of  the  patient  and  have  him  inhale  the  steam.  Make  the  tube  as  short  as 
possible  so  that  the  steam  will  be  as  hot  as  the  patient  can  bear  it.  The  hot 
steam  enters  the  mouth  and  relieves  the  painful  and  swollen  parts.  You  will 
be  surprised  to  learn  how  hot  the  patient  can  take  the  steam.  I once  saved 
a man’s  life  with  this  treatment.  He  could  neither  swallow  nor  talk  when  I 
first  saw  him  and  was  in  a critical  condition.  I advised  this  treatment  but  was 
very  anxious  and  worried  about  him  so  returned  in  an  hour  to  find  him  sit- 
ting with  the  spout  itself  in  his  mouth  and  not  using  the  hose  or  tube  as 
I had  directed.  I was  alarmed  lest  he  should  scald  himself  but  he  only 
smiled  with  joy  for  he  was  greatly  relieved  and  was  already  able  to  both 


252 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


swallow  and  talk.  So  steam  the  throat  and  keep  it  up  for  several  hours  should 
it  be  necessary. 

Give  hot  drinks  like  lemonade  and  teas,  to  produce  sweating.  Eat  no 
solid  foods  but  liquids  only.  Keep  the  bowels  open.  Externally,  apply  an  ice 
bag  and  keep  it  on  all  the  time  for  several  days.  You  can  also  apply  a piece 
of  well  salted  pork  externally  to  the  tonsils.  Bind  it  on  with  a cloth  which 
is  tied  under  the  jaw  and  over  the  head.  It  needs  to  draw  well.  Dip  your 
moistened  finger  into  baking  soda  and  apply  to  the  tonsils  every  hour.  Or, 
you  can  apply  pure  guaiacol  to  the  tonsils.  It  is  painful  for  a little  while 
but  will  do  much  good. 

The  tonsils  will  feel  soft  if  there  is  much  pus  in  them.  Should  pus  form 
the  tonsils  should  be  opened  and  it  will  save  much  pain.  If  you  are  troubled 
much  with  the  tonsils  they  should  be  removed. 

After  Effects. — It  is  now  a pretty  well  settled  fact  with  physicians  that 
rheumatism  enters  the  system  through  the  tonsils  or  is  caused  by  diseased 
tonsils.  It  is  best  to  have  them  removed  if  they  give  you  trouble. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— For  Tonsilitis  and  Quinsy. 

1.  Steaming  Throat. — Into  a kettle  containing  2 quarts  of  boiling  water 
put  either  5 drops  of  carbolic  acid  or  % of  a teaspoonful  of  turpentine  and 
steam  the  patient’s  throat. 

Remarks. — Directions  for  steaming  the  throat  have  been  given  above  so 
will  not  be  repeated  here.  Either  listerine  or  glyco-thymoline  are  also  good 
to  add  to  the  water. 

2.  Flaxseed  and  Hop  Poultices. — Put  hot  flaxseed  or  hop  poultices  to 
the  throat ; change  every  few  minutes  and  relief  will  soon  follow. 

3.  Honey,  Vinegar  and  Sage  Tea. — Take  1 tablespoonful  of  honey,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  enough  sage  tea  to  make  half  a pint.  Use  as  a 
gargle. 

4.  Alum  Water. — Gargle  with  weak  alum  water. 

5.  lodine.^Touching  the  tonsils  with  tincture  of  iodine  has  often  cured 
quinsy. 

6.  Steaming  with  Bitter  Herbs. — Take  a handful  each  of  sage,  hops, 
boneset,  horehound  and  catnip,  or  any  three  of  them  if  they  are  not  all  at 
hand.  Place  these  herbs  in  a teakettle  and  steam  the  patient’s  throat.  Also 
bathe  the  throat  with  the  tea  made  from  these  herbs. 

7.  Sumach,  Sage,  Borax,  Alum,  Saltpeter  and  Honey. — Take  a small 
handful  of  sumach  berries  or  bark  and  the  same  quantity  of  sage ; put  into 
three  pints  of  water  and  boil  down  to  a pint ; add  a teaspoonful  each  of  pul- 
verized borax,  alum  and  saltpeter  and  sweeten  with  honey.  This  is  an  excel- 
lent remedy  when  used  frequently  as  a gargle. 

8.  Honey  and  Lemon  Juice. — In  the  place  of  a gargle  you  can  give 
freely  of  honey  and  lemon  juice  mixed  together. 

9.  Poke  Root  Poultice. — Roast  some  freshly  dug  poke  root  in  the  ashes 
until  soft,  then  wash  and  apply  warm  as  a poultice. 

Physicians  Remarks. — This  is  a good  treatment.  I believe  that  poke 
weed  is  called  “ garget  ” in  some  sections  of  the  country  and  “ pigeon  berry  ” 
in  other  sections.  It  is  said  that  the  pigeons  eat  these  berries  to  reduce  their 
flesh  before  they  start  on  their  trip  south  in  the  fall.  It  is  because  of  this 
power  of  reducing  flesh  that  this  plant  is  used  in  so  many  different  anti-fat 
remedies.  I don’t  know  how  the  plant  got  the  name  of  “ garget  ” unless  it 
is  because  it  is  given  to  cows  to  cure  garget.  A poultice  of  this  root  is  also 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH.  253 


excellent  when  applied  to  caked  udders  in  cows  or  to  caked  breasts  in  women. 
Some  call  it  “ ink  berry.”  Don’t  you  remember  how  you  made  ink  of  the 
berries  when  you  were  a child? 

10.  Baking  Soda. — When  the  first  symptoms  of  tonsilitis  appear,  fre- 
quently touch  the  tonsils  with  a little  baking  soda  and  you  will  stop  the 
progress  of  the  disease. 

11.  Homeopathic  Remedy,  Etc. — Procure  some  tablets  of  the  third  trit- 
uration of  Mercurius  Biniodide  at  a homeopathic  pharmacy  and  give  2 tablets 
every  hour  until  relieved.  Also  gargle  the  throat  with  a solution  of  water 
and  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  bind  a steaming  poultice  of  flaxseed  meal  on 
the  throat  in  such  a way  as  to  cover  the  ears  as  the  passage  from  the  ear 
to  the  throat  will  be  afifected.  This  is  a proved  remedy. 

12.  Vinegar,  Salt  and  Cayenne. — To  a pint  of  water  and  vinegar  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a teaspoonful  of  cayenne  and  simmer  together.  Cool., 
strain,  and  use  as  a gargle. 

13.  Blackberry  Root,  Elm  Bark,  Sumach,  White  Oak  and  Alum. — Take 
1Y2  ounces  each  of  blackberry  root  and  red  elm  bark  and  1 ounce  each  of  su- 
mach berries  and  white  oak  bark.  Use  enough  water  to  make  a tea;  strain, 
and- when  cool  add  a piece  of  alum  as  big  as  a walnut  for  each  pint  of  the  de- 
coction and  use  as  a gargle. 

14.  Vinegar  and  Red  Pepper. — Gargle  the  throat  with  a mixture  of  vine- 
gar, red  pepper  and  water. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SWELLING  OR  ELONGATION 

OF  THE  PALATE. 

1.  Alum  and  White  Oak  Bark. — Dissolve  a little  alum  in  a decoction 
of  white  oak  bark  and  gargle  the  throat. 

2.  Salt,  Pepper  and  Mustard. — Salt,  pepper,  or  mustard  are  good  when 
mixed  with  water  and  used  as  a gargle. 

ENLARGED  TONSILS  AND  ADENOIDS. 

The  tonsils  should  be  removed  when  they  are  continually  enlarged  and 
when  the  patient  is  subject  to  repeated  attacks  of  tonsilitis.  They  should  be 
removed  when  they  are  so  large  as  to  interfere  with  speaking  and  when  they 
continually  contain  pus.  They  are  then  a danger  to  the  system  and  render 
a person  more  subject  to  disease.  It  is  thought  that  diseased  tonsils  have 
much  to  do  with  attacks  of  rheumatism. 

This  advice  as  to  removal  also  applies  to  adenoids  and  tumors.  Ade- 
noids are  enlarged  glands  in  the  throat.  These  enlargements,  through  the 
catarrhal  condition  they  cause,  affect  the  hearing  and  the  sense  of  smell  and 
they  also  affect  a person’s  speech  and  obstruct  the  breathing.  If  you  see  a 
child  that  always  keeps  its  mouth  open  so  as  to  breathe  more  easily,  you  may 
be  pretty  certain  that  there  is  some  obstruction  to  breathing  either  in  the 
throat  or  in  the  nostrils.  These  enlarf^ements  not  only  make  a child  apnear 
dull  but  they  really  cause  dullness.  Manv  a child  that  is  punished  for  being 
dull  and  stupid  would  not  be  so  if  his  adenoids  or  diseased  tonsils  were  re- 
moved. These  tumors  must  be  removed  and  then  the  child  will  breathe  the 
air  through  the  nostrils  as  nature  intended  and  it  will  be  far  healthier.  The 
removal  of  these  growths  will  also  do  much  toward  curing  the  catarrh.  I am 
not  in  favor  of  indiscriminate  operations  but  I unhesitatingly  advise  the  re- 
moval of  adenoids,  diseased  tonsils  and  foreign  growths  in  the  nose. 


264 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


THINGS  IN  THE  THROAT— CHOKING. 

(See  “ Accidents  and  Emergencies.”) 

SORE  THROAT. 

Pharyngitis. 

Pharyngitis  is  inflammation  of  the  pharynx  or  back  part  of  the  throat. 

Causes. — The  causes  of  sore  throat  are  colds  and  infectious  dust. 

Symptoms. — The  mucous  membrane  is  swollen  and  sore  and  there  is 
some  pain  in  swallowing.  Sometimes  it  feels  as  though  there  were  a tight- 
ening in  the  throat.  At  first  the  throat  looks  red  and  angry  and  the  tongue 
is  coated. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive  Treatment. — Avoid  taking  cold.  Do  not  get  wet  feet  and 
then  go  around  all  day  without  drying  them  and  putting  on  dry  clothing. 

“ What  to  Do.” — Give  a cathartic  and  use  one  of  the  good  gargles  given. 
Gargling  with  hot  water  or  tea  is  good.  Sweat  the  patient  if  necessary. 
Follow  instructions  as  to  nursing. 

Caution,  or  “ What  Not  to  Do.” — When  you  are  warm  do  not  sit  down 
to  cool  oflf.  Do  not  take  more  cold.  Do  not  allow  the  bowels  to  become  con- 
stipated. Do  not  neglect  a cold  or  sore  throat  or  something  more  serious 
may  develop. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — If  the  patient  is  an  adult  you  can  give  from  % 
of  a drop  to  3 drops  of  tincture  of  aconite  with  1 teaspoonful  of  sweet  spirits 
of  nitre  in  a glassful  of  hot  lemonade  every  1 to  3 hours.  Watch  carefully  for 
dryness  in  the  throat  and  stop  the  use  of  these  medicines  when  that  symptom 
appears. 

To  one  ounce  of  liquid  albolene  add  3 drops  each  of  oil  of  sassafras  and 
oil  of  sandal  wood  and  use  as  a spray  for  the  throat. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — For  the  first  24  hours  give  the  second  dilution 
of  Aconite.  Put  10  or  15  drops  into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoon- 
fuls every  ^2  lo  3 hours.  Follow  the  aconite  with  the  third  trituration  of 
Mercurius  Biniodide.  Give  one  tablet  every  1/2  to  3 hours. 

Nursing. — Apply  a cold  compress  to  the  neck  below  the  angle  of  the  jaw. 
This  is  done  by  dipping  cloths  into  cold  water  or  ice  water,  wringing  them 
out  and  binding  against  the  part.  They  should  not  be  allowed  to  become 
warm  or  they  Avill  produce  the  relaxing  effect  of  a poultice.  It  is  well  to  put 
the  patient  to  bed.  Give  a cathartic  to  move  the  bowels. 

An  adult  should  gaigle  with  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  To  the  water 
used  you  can  add  an  equal  quantity  of  distilled  extract  of  witch  hazel ; or,  you 
can  add  a pinch  of  red  pepper  and  some  cider  vinegar.  A good  gargle  is 
made  by  adding  a little  pepper  and  salt  to  some  tea  made  from  white  oak  bark. 
Gargling  with  vinegar  is  good.  Another  good  gargle  is  made  by  adding 
pepper  and  honey  to  some  sage  tea.  Blowing  sulphur  through  a goose  quill 
upon  the  sore  parts  of  the  throat  is  often  effective;  or,  you  can  make  a salve 
of  1 part  of  sulphur  and  2 parts  of  cream  and  apply  that  to  the  throat. 

Hot  teas  and  hot  lemonade  are  good  and  if  necessary  you  can  give  the 
patient  a sweat.  The  “ Corn  Sweat  ” described  in  the  Nursing  Department  is 
very  effective.  The  teas  may  be  made  of  boneset,  white  root,  sage  or  hore- 
hound.  They  produce  sweating  and  relieve  the  congestion  and  inflammation. 
Teas  made  of  cranesbill,  witch  hazel  or  golden  seal  make  good  gargles.  A 
hot  foot  bath  will  help. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH.  255 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Vinegar,  Pepper  and  Honey. — Simmer  together  some  vinegar,  red 
pepper,  and  honey  or  sugar,  and  add  enough  water  so  that  it  will  not  be  too 
strong.  Use  this  as  a gargle. 

2.  Camphor  Gum. — Hold  a piece  of  camphor  gum  the  size  of  a pea  in 
the  mouth  until  it  is  dissolved.  This  is  fine  for  sore  throat. 

3.  Baking  Soda. — Add  a teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  to  half  a glass  of 
water  and  gargle  the  throat  frequently. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  is  especially  good  for  tonsilitis. 

4.  Hot  Water  Applications. — Cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water  and  applied 
to  the  throat  promptly  and  thoroughly  will  cure  almost  any  case  of  sore 
throat. 

5.  Sage  Tea,  Alum  and  Honey. — Gargle  the  throat  with  sage  tea  in 
which  there  has  been  dissolved  a little  alum  and  honey. 

6.  German  Remedy  for  Sore  Troat. — To  half  a pint  of  strong  sage  tea 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  vinegar,  strained  honey  and  table  salt.  Mix, 
strain,  and  gargle  frequently. 

Physician’s  Remark. — This  German  remedy  makes  an  excellent  gargle  for 
sore  throat. 

7.  For  Putrid  Sore  Throat. — To  half  a pint  each  of  water  and  cider 
vinegar  add  2 tablespoonfuls  each  of  red  pepper  and  table  salt.  Let  this  boil 
for  a minute  or  two  and  then  bottle  for  use.  Gargle  until  the  mucus  clears 
from  the  throat.  Persons  who  cannot  gargle  may  swallow  a little  of  the 
mixture.  This  is  excellent  for  any  form  of  sore  throat. 

8.  Kerosene,  Salt  and  Alum. — Place  a piece  of  brown  paper  saturated 
with  kerosene  oil  around  the  neck  and  gargle  with  a solution  made  of  equal 
parts  of  salt  and  alum. 

9.  Lard  and  Ammonia. — Heat  two  parts  of  lard  and  1 part  of  aqua 
amm.onia;  spread  on  cotton  batting  and  apply  to  the  throat.  A lady  writes, 
‘‘  I have  used  this  myself  for  an  attack  of  laryngitis  and  have  often  used  it  for 
croup.  It  does  its  good  work  by  drawing  out  the  inflammation.” 

10.  Camphor,  Salt  and  Borax. — Mix  a little  camphor,  salt  and  borax  in 
a glass  of  water  and  use  as  a gargle. 

11.  Cold  Water  Applications. — Wring  a cloth  out  of  cold  water  and 
bind  on  the  throat  at  night.  This  should  be  covered  with  a dry  towel. 

12.  Witch  Hazel. — Gargle  with  witch  hazel.  Also  saturate  a flannel 
with  the  same  and  wear  about  the  neck. 

13.  Salt  Water  and  Red  Pepper. — Dissolve  a large  tablespoonful  of 
salt  in  half  a glass  of  water  and  gargle  the  throat  before  each  meal.  A little 
red  pepper  may  be  added  to  this  if  desired. 

14.  Bread  and  Cayenne  Pepper. — Soak  a small  piece  of  bread  in  some 
water  and  mix  a pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  with  it.  This  should  be  rolled  into 
a small  pill  and  swallowed. 

15.  Cayenne  Pepper,  Black  Pepper,  Salt  and  Vinegar. — Add  a pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper,  Vt  teaspoon ful  of  black  pepper  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt 
to  one  glass  of  vinegar  and  use  as  a gargle. 

IG.  Salt  and  Vinegar. — Gargle  with  salt  and  vinegar. 

17.  Spirits  of  Camphor. — One  lady  says,  “ A few  drops  of  spirits  of 
camphor  every  hour  will  relieve  a sore  throat  sooner  than  any  remedy  I 
know  of.  This  is  an  old  and  well  tried  remedy  for  sore  throat.  To  inhale 
the  camphor  is  excellent  for  cold  in  the  head.” 


256 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Physician’s  Remarks. — I know  this  to  be  a very  good  treatment. 

18.  Liniment. — Apply  flannel  cloths  wet  with  some  good  liniment. 

19.  !!;ialt  Water,  Sugar  and  Soda. — To  some  weak  salt  water  add  a little 
sugar  and  soda.  Gargle  as  soon  as  you  awake  in  the  morning  and  after  that 
swallow  a little  clear  salt  water  before  eating.  This  is  good  for  any  sore 
throat. 

20.  Tea  Leaves. — If  you  have  sore  throat  try  chewing  some  tea  leaves. 

21.  Alum,  Honey,  Sage,  Etc. — One  lady  writes,  “ Make  some  strong  tea 
and  use  it  as  a drink  and  as  a gargle.  Salt  and  water  is  used  by  many  as  a 
gargle  but  I find  that  a little  alum  and  honey  dissolved  in  sage  tea  is  better.” 

22.  Baking  Soda. — Wash  or  gargle  the  throat  with  water  in  which  bak- 
ing soda  has  been  dissolved. 

23.  Sage,  Golden  Seal,  Cankerweed,  Alum,  Etc. — Take  a small  handful 
each  of  sage,  golden  seal  and  cankerweed;  steep  these  herbs  together  in  a 
little  water;  strain  into  a d^sh  and  add  1 teaspoonful  of  granulated  sugar 
and  1/4  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  alum ; stir  until  dissolved,  then  gargle  the 
throat  every  little  while.  A lady  living  at  Middlefield,  Ohio,  says  she  has  used 
this  frequently  and  always  with  good  results. 

24.  Alum,  Sage  Tea,  Borax,  Etc. — Add  some  alum  to  some  sage  tea.  You 
can  also  add  honey  and  borax  if  you  wish.  This  makes  a good  gargle  for 
sore  throat. 

25.  Alum,  Sugar,  Sage,  Vinegar,  Etc. — A lady  living  at  Wellesley,  Mass, 
writes  the  following:  “ Take  a small  piece  of  alum,  a teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a 
few  sage  leaves  and  W cup  of  vinegar;  steep,  and  when  cold  gargle  every  two 
hours.  This  recipe  was  given  to  my  mother  by  a famous  physician  and  we 
have  used  it  for  years  with  excellent  results.  It  is  grand  for  either  sore  throat 
or  quinsy.” 

26.  Steaming  with  Listerine,  Turpentine,  Etc. — Gargle  frequently  with 
very  hot  water  or  steam  the  patient’s  throat  with  the  steam  from  a teakettle. 
Either  herbs,  such  as  golden  seal,  horehound,  etc.,  or  listerine  or  turpentine 
may  be  added  to  the  kettle  of  water  if  you  have  any  of  them  handy. 

CHRONIC  SORE  THROAT. 

Chronic  Pharyngitis. 

Symptoms. — The  mucous  membrane  is  irritated  and  the  secretions  are 
much  thickened  so  that  the  patient  must  continually  attempt  to  clear  the 
throat  which  feels  dry  and  harsh.  The  cough  is  spasmodic  and  made  worse 
by  exposure  to  cold  and  dust. 

Treatment. — Gargle  at  night  with  either  clear  hot  water  or  hot  salt  water. 
Several  times  a day  take  10  grains  of  benzoate  of  ammonia  internally. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  MOUTH. 


SORE  MOUTH— CANKERS  AND  ULCERS. 

Stomatitis. 

Stomatitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  mouth.  We  will  treat  of  the  Ca- 
tarrhal, Aphthous  and  Ulcerative  forms. 

Symptoms  of  Catarrhal  Form. — There  is  an  intense  redness  of  the  mucous 
membrane  lining  the  mouth  and  there  is  some  swelling  which  is  particularly 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH.  ^67 


noticed  on  the  gums.  There  is  increased  heat  in  the^  mouth  and  the  child 
suffers  pain.  The  saliva  flows  freely  and  constantly  dribbles  on  the  chin. 
There  is  some  diarrhea  or  stomach  and  bowel  trouble. 

Symptoms  of  Aphthous  Form. — This  is  the  catarrhal  form  more  fully 
developed.  There  are  cankers  which  are  very  sensitive.  Every  mother  knows 
what  cankers  are  and  this  form  will  not  need  further  description. 

Symptoms  of  Ulcerative  Forpi. — The  ulcerative  or  putrid  kind  is  more 
serious.  The  ulcers  may  be  large  and  cause  great  pain  and  suffering.  They 
are  mostly  situated  along  the  edges  of  the  gums  which  recede  from  the  teeth ; 
or,  they  may  be  on  the  margins  of  the  tongue  and  even  on  the  lips.  The 
breath  is  very  foul  and  the  mouth  is  made  sore  by  the  flow  of  saliva. 
TREATMENT.— 

More  has  been  said  concerning  this  disease  in  the  Baby  Department. 

Cleanse  the  mouth  and  regulate  the  bowels  and  the  diet.  The  following 
. is  a good  mouth  wash.  Mix  30  grains  of  chlorate  of  potash,  10  drops  of 
tincture  of  myrrh  and  3 fluid  ounces  of  elixir-calisaya  and  use  freely  in  the 
mouth. 

In  the  ulcerative  form  touch  the  ulcers  with  a piece  of  alum  or  a stick 
of  nitrate  of  silver. 

The  diet  should  be  of  nutritious  food,  such  as  cold  consomme  and  cold 
chicken  jelly  and  ordinary  foods  if  they  can  be  taken. 

In  scurvy  cases  give  fresh  vegetables,  fruits,  and  beef  juice.  These  are 
absolutely  needful. 

A strong  decoction  of  cranesbill  is  very  good  for  sore  mouth ; or,  you 
can  take  1 part  of  cranesbill  and  2 parts  of  golden  seal  and  make  a strong 
decoction  and  apply  to  the  sore  mouth. 

Another  good  remedy  is  to  take  equal  parts  of  the  decoctions  of  strong 
green  tea,  golden  seal  and  sage.  Use  this  as  a gargle  for  sore  mouth  and 
throat. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES. — For  Sore  Mouth,  Cankers  and  Ulcers. 

1.  Borax  Water. — Wash  the  mouth  with  a solution  of  15  grains  of  borax 
to  1 ounce  of  water. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Borax  is  antiseptic  and  somewhat  astringent. 

2.  White  Oak  Bark  and  Alum. — Boil  1 ounce  of  white  oak  bark  in  a 
pint  of  water;  strain,  and  add  1 scruple  of  alum.  Apply  several  times  a day 
with  a soft  sponge. 

3.  Cranesbill,  Golden  Seal  and  Alum. — Frequently  wash  the  mouth  with 
a tea  made  of  equal  parts  of  cranesbill,  golden  seal  and  alum. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Cranesbill  is  mild,  unirritating  and  astringent. 
Alum  is  also  astringent  and  golden  seal  has  a special  action  on  the  mucous 
surfaces  of  the  mouth,  throat  and  stomach.  Hydrastine  and  berberin  are  two 
of  the  alkaloids  contained  in  golden  seal. 

4.  Burnt  Alum. — Touch  the  canker  with  a little  burnt  alum. 

5.  Alum  Watei. — A splendid  wash  for  sore  mouth  is  a teaspoonful  of 
alum  dissolved  in  a glass  of  water. 

6.  Yellow  Dock,  Alum  and  Honey. — Make  a tea  of  yellow  dock  root  and 
add  equal  parts  of  honey  and  alum.  Or,  let  the  child  chew  the  root  of  the 
yellow  dock. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — The  honey  and  alum  act  locally  on  the  parts  and 
yellow  dock  is  an  alterative. 

17 


358 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


7.  Chlorate  of  Potash. — Use  chlorate  of  potash  as  a wash  for  sore 
mouth. 

8.  Molasses. — Wet  a piece  of  soft  cotton  with  New  Orleans  molasses 

and  gently  wipe  the  sore  spots  with  it.  A mother  living  at  Saginaw,  Michigan 
says)  “ I have  found  this  to  be  excellent  for  sore  mouth.  It  will  heal  it  very 
quickly.”  v. 

9.  Sage  Tea,  Honey  and  Borax. — Sage  tea,  honey  and  borax  makes  a 
fine  wash  for  sore  mouth  and  is  also  a good  gargle  for  sore  throat. 

10.  Tomato  Juice.— Wash  the  sore  mouth  with  the  juice  of  ripe  tomatoes. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  is  a good  remedy.  The  tomato  juice  is 

slightly  acid. 

11.  Golden  Seal. — Wash  the  mouth  with  a tea  made  of  golden  seal. 

12.  Nitrate  of  Silver. — Touch  the  canker  with  a stick  of  nitrate  of  silver. 

13.  Tincture  of  Myrrh. — Wash  the  sore  mouth  with  the  tincture  of 
myrrh. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — This  is  a stimulant  and  is  slightly  astringent. 
By  adding  a few  drops  of  carbolic  acid  and  some  thymol  the  curative  action 
of  the  myrrh  will  be  increased. 

14.  Blue  Cohosh,  Golden  Seal,  Etc. — Blue  cohosh  root  combined  with  an 
equal  part  of  golden  seal  and  made  into  a tea  by  using  1 ounce  each  of  the 
herbs  to  a pint  of  boiling  water,  steeping,  and  sweetening  with  honey  is 
excellent  for  ulcerous  sore  mouth  and  throat  when  applied  locally. 

15.  Cranesbill,  Golden  Seal,  Sage  and  Honey. — Make  a tea  or  decoction 
of  cranesbill  and  use  as  a gargle  or  apply  locally.  It  may  be  used  alone  or  in 
combination  with  golden  seal,  sage  and  honey.  It  is  also  good  as  a gargle  for 
salivation  caused  by  mercury. 

16.  Witch  Hazel. — As  a gargle  for  sore  mouth  use  a decoction  of  witch 
hazel. 

17.  Golden  Sea,  Cranesbill,  Blue  Cohosh,  Etc. — A tea  or  decoction  of 
golden  seal  is  good  alone  or  in  combination  with  cranesbill,  witch  hazel  or 
blue  cohosh. 

18.  Cranesbill,  Witch  Hazel,  Black  Cohosh,  Etc. — To  a quart  of  boiling 
water  add  % ounce  each  of  cranesbill,  witch  hazel,  black  cohosh  and  golden 
seal.  Each  of  the  herbs  should  be  coarsely  bruised.  Mix  the  articles  together 
and  steep  with  gentle  heat  in  a closed  vessel  for  2 hours ; remove  from  the 
fire  and  strain.  This  is  good  for  chronic  sore  throat  and  mouth  and  also  is 
good  as  an  injection  for  leucorrhea. 

19.  Sage,  Hyssop  and  Borax. — Take  1 ounce  of  sage  leaves,  1 ounce  of 
hyssop  leaves,  1 quart  of  boiling  water  and  1 teaspoonful  of  powdered  borax. 
Place  the  herbs  in  the  boiling  water  and  allow  them  to  steep  for  half  an  hour, 
then  strain  and  add  the  borax.  Uses. — This  is  good  as  a wash  and  gargle  in 
sore  throat,  cankered  mouth  and  quinsy  when  accompanied  with  inflammation. 

GANGRENOUS  SORE  MOUTH. 

Noma — Cancrum  Oris. 

These  terms  are  applied  to  all  severe  forms  of  ulceration.  It  is  very 
serious  on  account  of  its  following  other  debilitating  diseases.  It  frequently 
follows  measles  and  sometimes  follows  or  comes  with  scarlet  fever,  typhoid 
fever  and  whooping  cough.  This  must  be  treated  by  a physician. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH.  S59 

NURSING  SORE  MOUTH. 

This  is  treated  in  the  Baby  Department. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Borax  and  Honey. — Mix  a little  borax  and  honey  and  apply  to  the 
sore  mouth. 

2.  Alum,  Salt,  Yellow  Dock  and  Lemon  Juice. — While  burning  an 
ounce  of  alum  sprinkle  the  same  quantity  of  salt  over  it.  When  cold,  add  to 
this  mixture  an  ounce  of  pulverized  yellow  dock  root  and  two  quarts  of  pure 
rain  water  and  mix  all  together  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  let  it  stand 
in  the  sun  three  or  four  days,  shaking  occasionally.  If  desired  this  may  be 
weakened  with  sugar  and  water.  Apply  to  the  gums  with  a cotton  cloth  two 
or  three  times  a day  for  nursing  sore  mouth. 

THRUSH. 

This  is  described  and  treated  in  the  Baby  Department.  Avoid 
sweets  and  syrups  and  pay  attention  to  cleanliness  and  good  feeding.  For 
a mouth  wash  use  10  grains  of  borax  to  an  ounce  of  water  or  1 grain  of 
permanganate  of  potash  to  8 ounces  of  water ; or,  use  1 part  of  dilute  peroxide 
of  hydrogen  to  5 parts  of  water. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Borax  and  Loaf  Sugar. — Mix  pulverized  borax  with  pulverized  loaf 
sugar  and  apply  to  the  mouth  every  2 or  3 hours. 

2.  Borax  Water. — For  thrush  gargle  with  a solution  made  by  adding  a 
few  grains  of  borax  to  a cupful  of  water. 

3.  Borax  and  Glycerine. — One  of  the  finest  applications  for  thrush  is  a 
little  borax  dissolved  in  twice  as  much  glycerine. 

4.  Golden  Seal,  Blue  Cohosh,  Alum  and  Honey. — The  mother  should 
see  that  the  child’s  bowels  are  open ; then  wash  its  mouth  with  a strong  tea 
made  of  equal  parts  of  golden  seal  and  blue  cohosh  root,  sweetened  with 
honey  or  sugar.  A little  alum  added  to  this  will  be  found  valuable. 

5.  Hyssop,  Sage,  Sumach,  Honey  and  Borax. — Make  a strong  decoc- 
tion of  equal  parts  of  hyssop,  sage  and  sumach  berries  and  sweeten  with 
either  sugar  or  honey  and  to  a pint  of  the  tea  add  a teaspoonful  of  pulverized 
borax.  The  mother  should  frequently  wash  the  child’s  mouth  with  this 
mixture. 

6.  Red  Raspberry  Leaves,  Blackberry  Root,  Gold  Thread  and  Sage. — 
Make  a tea  of  either  red  raspberry  leaves,  blackberry  root,  gold  thread  or  sage 
and  use  as  a wash  for  thrush. 

TOOTHACHE. 

No  one  needs  to  be  told  when  he  has  the  toothache  so  no  symptoms 
need  be  given. 

Treatment. — Apply  a hot  salt  bag  or  a hot  poultice  to  the  face.  A fig  or 
a raisin  poultice  will  be  found  an  excellent  remedy  for  this  painful  affliction. 
Take  a small  fig  or  a large  raisin  and  boil  it  in  milk  until  it  swells  to  a good 
size  and  then  place  it  between  the  gum  and  cheek.  You  had  better  have  two 
or  three  prepared  so  as  to  keep  the  poultice  hot.  This  is  a splendid  remedy  and 
will  stop  a great  many  toothaches. 

Put  a few  drops  of  oil  of  cloves  or  peppermint  on  a piece  of  cotton  and 


260 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


insert  in  the  cavity.  If  the  tooth  has  been  pulled  and  the  bleeding  from  the 
gums  bothers,  you  can  apply  a little  cranesbill  on  a piece  of  cotton. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Field  Thistle.— The  worst  case  of  toothache  can  be  cured  by  chewing 
a piece  of  the  root  of  the  large  field  thistle  which  is  commonly  known  as  the 
“ bull  ” thistle;  and,  by  drinking  a tea  and  applying  a poultice  made  from  its 
leaves  you  can  permanently  cure  the  worst  case  of  neuralgia  that  ever  existed. 
Give  it  a trial  and  be  convinced. 

2.  Salt  and  Alum. — Press  equal  parts  of  salt  and  pulverized  alum  into 
the  cavity  of  the  tooth. 

3.  Magic  Tooth  Drops. — Take  2 ounces  of  alcohol ; IV2  ounces  of  sul- 
phuric ether ; 1 ounce  each  of  chloroform  and  camphor  gum ; % ounce  each  of 
laudanum,  oil  of  sassafras  and  oil  of  cloves  and  1 dram  of  lavender.  The 
person  sending  this  recipe  says  he  puts  it  up  in  small  bottles,  calls  it  Magic 
Tooth  Drops  ” and  sells  it  for  25c.  per  bottle.  To  one  suffering  with  toothache 
it  is  worth  many  times  this  price.  Rub  on  gums  frequently  or  insert  in  tooth. 

4.  Creosote  and  Oil  of  Cloves. — Wet  a piece  of  cotton  with  a drop  of 
either  creosote  or  the  oil  of  cloves  and  insert  in  the  cavity  of  the  tooth.  Be 
careful  not  to  let  the  creosote  touch  the  mouth. 

6.  Rum,  Brandy,  Whiskey,  Etc. — If  the  toothache  comes  from  decayed 
teeth  it  may  be  relieved  by  holding  rum,  brandy,  whiskey  or  diluted  tincture 
of  cayenne  in  the  mouth.  It  will  also  help  to  apply  laudanum  or  a mustard 
plaster  externally. 

6.  Chloroform,  Cinnamon,  Cloves  and  Creosote. — To  half  an  ounce  of 
chloroform  add  half  a dram  each  of  oil  of  cinnamon,  oil  of  cloves  and  creosote 
and  with  a little  piece  of  cotton  bathe  the  gums  on  both  sides  of  the  tooth 
and  if  there  is  a cavity  insert  some  of  the  cotton  which  has  been  wet  with  the 
mixture. 

7.  Raisin  and  Mustard. — Split  a raisin,  put  a little  mustard  on  the  sticky 
side  and  apply  to  the  aching  tooth  or  gum.  It  will  draw  out  all  the  soreness. 

8.  Raisins  and  Figs. — Boil  either  a raisin  or  a small  fig  in  milk  and 
apply  to  the  tooth  while  hot. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  TEETHING. 

(Also  see  Baby  Department.) 

1.  Ice.— The  pain  of  teething  will  be  greatly  relieved  by  allowing  the 
child  to  hold  small  splinters  of  ice  in  its  mouth.  The  child’s  health  will  also 
be  benefited.  A mother  living  in  Kentucky  writes  that  after  hours  of  fret- 
fulness her  baby  would  become  quiet  immediately  after  giving  ice  in  this 
manner. 

2.  Rubbing. — Rub  the  gums  freely  with  the  finger  or  a piece  of  rubber. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  I^OR  BAD  BREATH. 

1.  Tooth  Brush. — Bad  breath  often  comes  from  unclean  teeth  and  can 
be  cured  by  the  use  of  the  brush. 

2.  Charcoal. — Take  a teaspoonful  of  powdered  charcoal  in  a glass  of 
water  every  other  morning  before  breakfast. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE,  EAR,  NOSE,  THROAT  AND  MOUTH.  261 


3.  Roasted  Coffee  and  Corn. — Chew  either  roasted  coffee  or  roasted 
corn  for  a bad  breath. 

4.  Catarrh  Treatment. — Treat  the  catarrh  which  causes  it. 


TOOTH  POWDER  AND  PASTE. 

Mix  very  finely  powdered  charcoal  with  castile  soap  and  apply  with  a 
brush.  Some  mix  the  charcoal  with  honey.  Be  sure  the  charcoal  is  very 
finely  powdered. 


DEFORMITIES,  MALIGNANT  GROWTHS 
AND  OPERATIONS. 


Operations. — Almost  every  paper  we  read  contains  an  account  of  some 
operation.  The  opinion  is  gaining  ground  that  there  are  too  many  operations. 
Is  it  necessary  to  operate  so  often?  There  is  no  doubt  that  there  are  both 
good  and  harm  done.  Conservatism  as  to  operations  is  gaining  ground  and 
the  best  physicians  now  believe  that  they  should  be  performed  only  as  a 
last  resort  after  other  means  have  failed.  Unfortunately,  however,  there  are 
some  few  things  in  which  it  is  known  that  all  other  means  of  treatment  will 
fail  and  then  an  operation  is  demanded  and,  of  course,  if  it  is  absolutely 
necessary  to  operate,  the  earlier  the  operation  is  performed  the  better  will  be 
the  results. 

Appendicitis. — In  the  past  too  many  operations  have  been  performed 
for  appendicitis.  Every  case  does  not  need  an  operation.  The  pendulum  has 
swung  too  far  toward  indiscrimipate  operations  but  by  the  best  physicians  it 
is  now  being  brought  back  within  proper  limits.  The  best  plan  is  to  wait, 
say  36  hours,  and  then  operate,  if  necessary,  but  if  the  patient  is  then  getting 
better  the  chances  are  that  no  operation  will  be  necessary.  Lives  have  been 
saved  by  operations  for  appendicitis,  but,  on  the  other  hand,  many  healthy 
appendices  have  been  removed.  That  little  organ  may  be  good  for  something; 
else  why  did  nature  put  it  there. 

Malignant  Growths. — Many  growths  may  be  removed  without  the  knife 
and  it  is  not  wise  to  resort  to  an  operation  unless  it  be  absolutely  necessary; 
yet,  if  the  growth  be  a genuine  cancer  then  an  operation  will  be  demanded 
and  the  sooner  it  be  performed,  the  better.  If  you  have  a suspicious  lump  or 
sore,  go  early  to  a doctor  in  whom  you  have  confidence  and  one  who  is  not 
only  a capable  physician  but  is  honest  and  can  be  trusted.  Tell  him  freely 
and  fully  your  exact  condition  and  conceal  nothing.  Do  not  go  to  quacks  who 
make  preposterous  claims  in  the  papers  or  who  offer  to  perform  a cure  for 
so  much  money.  I have  cured  “ so  called  cancers  ” with  a salve  but  I never 
cured  a genuine  cancer  with  medicine,  and  in  thirty  years  of  practice  I have 
never  seen  one  cured  that  way.  Medicines  and  salves  are  helpful  for  many 
bad  looking  sores  and  ulcers  that  are  commonly  called  cancers  but  for  a real 
cancer  the  knife  is  the  only  cure  and  the  sooner  it  is  applied  the  better  it  will 
be.  The  X-Ray  may  be  brought  into  use  but  it  should  be  carefully  used  by  a 
reliable  man  or  much  harm  may  be  the  result. 

Cancers  of  Lip,  Tongue,  Face,  Etc. — The  medical  profession  has  called  a 
halt  upon  indiscriminate  operating  and  conservatism  is  rapidly  gaining  ground 
and  yet  conservatism  must  not  be  carried  too  far.  For  instance,  if  you  have 
a cancer  on  the  lip  or  tongue  or  on  almost  any  part  of  the  body  for  that 
matter,  it  should  be  operated  on  early ; there  is  no  time  to  lose.  The  tobacco 
pipe,  by  its  constant  irritation,  is  frequently  the  cause  of  cancer  of  the  lip.  I 
believe  smoking  was  the  cause  of  General  Grant’s  death.  As  much  as  I am  op- 
posed to  unnecessary  operations,  I cannot  advise  too  strongly  in  favor  of  an 
early  operation  for  malignant  growths  of  this  character. 

262 


DEFORMITIES,  MALIGNANT  GROWTHS  AND  OPERATIONS.  263 


Cancer  of  the  Womb  and  Stomach. — Cancers  of  the  stomach  are  hard  to 
get  at  and  yet  some  wonderful  operations  have  recently  been  performed  upon 
this  organ.  What  I have  said  in  regard  to  early  operations  for  the  removal 
of  cancers  from  the  lips  and  tongue  also  applies  to  cancers  of  the  womb.  Sus- 
picious looking  ulcers  of  the  womb  should  always  be  carefully  watched  and 
their  exact  nature  should  be  made  certain  by  examination.  Many  a woman’s 
life  has  been  saved  by  an  early  operation  in  cases  of  this  kind  and  untold 
pain  and  misery  have  been  prevented.  The  trouble  in  these  cases  is  that 
people  wait  too  long. 

Tumors  and  Cancers  of  the  Breast. — ^Tumors  of  the  breast  in  women  are 
always  suspicious  and  safety  demands  their  removal.  If  done  early  the  result 
is  good.  What  has  previously  been  said  regarding  the  early  removal  of 
cancers  applies  also  to  cancers  of  the  breast. 

Tumors  of  the  Ovaries  and  Tubes. — Operations  on  these  organs  have  done 
much  good  and  they  have  also  done  much  harm.  There  is  now  more  descrimi- 
nation  in  operating  on  the  ovaries  and  the  results  show  that  conservatism 
pays.  Of  course  when  the  tumors  attain  much  size  and  the  woman  begins  to 
fail  in  health  and  strength,  an  operation  should  be  performed,  if  possible,  for 
such  tumors  will  not  fade  away.  One  summer,  not  long  ago,  my  wife  and  I 
made  a visit  to  my  old  home  in  Pennsylvania.  A neighbor  woman  there  had 
a tumor  of  the  right  ovary  and  was  fearfully  dropsical.  I urged  her  to  have 
an  operation  as  I believed  she  could  not  get  well  without  it.  After  delaying 
as  long  as  she  could  she  submitted  to  an  operation  and  is  now  well  and  happy. 
Years  ago  tapping  would  have  been  resorted  to  and  would  have  been  done 
again  and  again  with  no  permanent  relief. 

Eight  years  ago  I saw  a young  woman  whose  right  ovary  was  enlarged 
but  only  to  about  the  size  of  a small  walnut.  Her  womb  was  also  tipped 
back.  Although  an  operation  had  been  advised  in  this  case  also,  I did  not 
deem  it  necessary  as  in  the  case  above.  I restored  the  womb  and  put  in  a 
support  and  have  given  her  medicine  quite  regularly  since  then.  Her  ovary 
is  reduced  in  size  and  she  is  in  comfortable  health.  Whether  an  operation  is 
necessary  or  not  depends  upon  the  nature  of  the  case  and,  as  I have  said  before, 
it  will  pay  to  go  to  a capable  and  honest  physician  and  tell  him  fully  about 
your  exact  condition. 

Growths  in  the  Mouth  and  Nose. — Whenever  a child  has  growths  in  the 
nose  like  polypi  or  enlarged  turbinated  bones  or  growths  in  the  throat  like 
adenoids  or  enlarged  tonsils,  and  these  growths  cause  catarrh,  headaches,  affec- 
tions of  the  ear,  and  are  obstructions  to  breathing,  causing  the  child  to  breathe 
through  the  mouth,  then  these  growths  should  be  removed  early  and  a new 
child  will  be  the  result.  Oftentimes  a child  which  is  stupid  and  backward 
in  its  school  work  would  be  as  bright  and  keen  as  the  rest  were  these  foreign 
growths  removed.  Under  Diseases  of  the  Eye,  Ear,  Nose,  Throat  and 
Mouth  ” you  will  find  more  regarding  adenoids  and  enlarged  tonsils.  The  re- 
moval of  these  growths  will  not  only  make  the  child  brighter  but  it  will  en- 
joy better  health  as  well. 

Birthmarks,  Hare  Lip,  Cleft  Palate,  Tongue  Tie  and  Cross  Eyes. — These 
deformities  should  all  be  attended  to  when  the  child  is  young.  Some  of  the 
operations  for  the  correction  of  these  deformities  are  very  simple  and  it  is  a 
shame  to  let  a child  go  through  life  with  these  disfigurements  if  it  is  possible 
to  correct  them.  You  have  no  right  to  let  a child  go  through  life  with  cross 
eyes  or  a hare  lip. 


264 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Cataract  and  Film  on  the  Eye. — The  latter  is  very  easily  removed  and 
without  much  pain.  The  only  thing  to  do  for  cataracts  is  to  let  them 
mature,  or  get  “ ripe/’  and  then  have  them  removed.  Unless  the  cataract  was 
caused  by  an  injury  to  the  eye  the  results  of  an  operation  are  generally  good 
and  though  you  will  have  to  wear  glasses  after  the  operation  you  will  be  a 
new  person. 

Mastoid  Disease  and  Inflammation  of  the  Middle  Ear, — These  troubles 
must  be  carefully  watched.  Any  person  with  a constant  discharge  from  his 
ear  may  at  any  time  have  serious  trouble.  The  operation  on  the  mastoid 
bone  for  mastoiditis  has  saved  many  lives.  Persons  of  a tuberculous  tendency 
who  have  ear  trouble  need  constant  watching  and  especially  when  the  trouble 
becomes  quite  painful  or  when  there  are  symptoms  of  brain  disease. 

Piles,  Tuberculous  Glands  and  Diseased  Bones. — Operations  for  these 
should  be  performed  only  when  other  means  have  failed.  The  operation  for 
piles  is  sometimes  quite  successful  but  often  other  treatments  will  make  this 
operation  unnecessary.  This  also  applies  to  operations  for  diseased  bones. 

Varicose  Veins. — This  has  been  treated  in  another  place.  Sometimes, 
when  other  treatments  fail  and  the  enlarged  veins  give  much  trouble,  benefit 
will  be  derived  from  the  removal  of  one  or  more  of  the  veins. 

Hip  Joint  Disease — Tuberculosis  of  Hip  Joint — Morbus  Coxarius. — This 
is  much  more  common  in  children  than  in  adults. 

Symptoms. — There  is  slight  ■ lameness  at  first  and  pain  is  complained 
of 'in  the  hip,  the  thigh,  or  more  frequently,  at  the  knlfee.  There  is  a dwindling, 
or  shrinking  of  the  muscles  of  the  thigh  and  the  child  does  not  care  to  play 
much.  The  leg  is  apparently  lengthened  and  by  this  time  the  parents  can  see 
that  there  is  something  terribly  wrong.  Don’t  wait,  but  do  something. 

Treatment. — The  sooner  treatment  is  begun  the  better  it  will  be  for 
the  patient.  Attend  to  the  disease  at  once  and  you  may  save  a crippled  child. 
Give  the  child  absolute  rest  and  employ  a good  physician. 

V/hite  Swelling — Tuberculosis  of  the  Knee  Joint — Other  Joint  Diseases. 
— Next  to  the  hip,  the  knee  is  the  joint  most  frequently  affected.  The  disease 
is  of  tuberculous  origin  the  same  as  the  disease  of  the  elbow  or  hip  joint. 

Treatment. — Apply  a splint  or  a plaster  of  Paris  cast.  Walk  only 
with  crutches  and  do  not  touch  the  ground  with  the  foot  of  the  diseased  leg. 
White  swelling  is  frequently  cured  in  this  way.  Give  strengthening  medicines 
and  build  up  the  constitution.  Give  blood  remedies  and  allow  the  patient  to 
rest.  These  instructions  apply,  also,  to  other  joint  diseases. 

Crooked  Feet — Club  Feet — Talipes.- — These  should  be  attended  to  while 
young.  A great  many  can  be  straightened  without  an  operation  though  the 
operation  is  very  successful.  The  parents  of  a child  with  crooked  feet  are 
guilty  of  absolute  cruelty  if  they  will  not  have  them  straightened  while  the 
child  is  young. 

Knock  Knees  and  Bowlegs — Genu  Valgum  and  Genu  Varum. — These 
should  also  be  attended  to  in  early  childhood.  They  are  generally  due  to 
rickets. 

Treatment. — The  child  needs  strengthening  medicines  and  good  food 
and  plenty  of  out-door  exercise.  These  deformities  are  very  successfully 
treated  but  they  should  be  treated  early.  Don’t  force  the  babies  to  walk  too 
soon  for  their  bones  are  soft  and  will  bend  and  at  least  cause  a slight  bowing  of 
the  legs. 


DEFORMITIES,  MALIGNANT  GROWTHS  AND  OPERATIONS.  265 


Hammer  Finger  and  Toe. — The  treatment  is  to  take  off  the  joint  which 
is  bent  down  for  it  is  annoying,  painful  and  a great  deformity. 

Rupture — Hernia. — 

Causes. — Ruptures  are  caused  by  heavy  lifting  or  straining,  by  falls,  and 
even  by  severe  coughing,  such  as  is  common  with  whooping  cough. 

Description  and  Symptoms. — A rupture  or  hernia  is  the  coming  out  of 
part  of  the  intestines  and  their  covering  through  one  of  the  natural  openings 
in  the  wall  of  the  abdomen  near  the  groin  or  the  navel.  They  occur  oftener 
in  males  than  in  females  and  babies  sometimes  have  them.  Ruptures  are 
reducible,  irreducible  or  strangulated. 

Reducible  Hernia. — This  is  one  that  can  be  forced  back  into  place.  To 
do  this  you  should  lie  on  your  back  and  sometimes  it  will  go  down  itself.  If 
it  does  not  you  should  bend  the  leg  and  lift  it  up  and  at  the  same  time  gently 
force  the  bowels  back  with  your  fingers,  moving  your  leg  up  and  in  slowly. 
You  will  feel  the  hernia  slowly  going  back.  It  may  take  half  an  hour  to 
get  it  all  in  place. 

Irreducible  Hernia. — This  is  one  that  cannot  be  put  back  in  place.  It 
cannot  be  put  back  because  it  is  so  large  and  the  opening  has  become  con- 
stricted. 

Strangulated  Hernia. — This  is  an  irreducible  hernia  where  the  constric- 
tion is  so  great  that  the  circulation  is  shut  off  and  it  becomes  inflamed.  This 
will  cause  nausea  and  vomiting  and  an  operation  should  be  performed  as 
early  as  possible. 

Treatment  for  Hernia. — Wear  a perfect  fitting  support  or  truss.  A truss 
will  cure  many  cases.  The  injection  treatment  is  simply  a temporary  help. 
It  produces  inflammation  around  the  opening  and  partly  closes  it,  but  in  six 
months  or  a year  the  rupture  will  be  as  bad  as  ever.  The  same  treatment 
applies  to  either  hernia  near  the  groin  or  rupture  at  the  navel.  The  operation 
is  very  successful  for  ruptures  and  should  be  performed  where  the  truss  fails 
to  effect  a cure. 

Gall  Stones. — The  operation  for  gall  stones  is  very  successful.  The  gall 
bladder  is  opened  and  the  stones  taken  out. 

Circumcision  and  Operation  on  Clitoris. — Circumcision  is  the  removal  of 
a part  of  the  foreskin  of  a male.  Sometimes  the  hood  of  the  clitoris  of  the  female 
needs  to  be  cut  or  drawn  back.  Sometimes  the  foreskin  or  the  hood  of  the 
clitoris  is  so  tight  as  to  cause  irritation  and  keep  the  passions  excited  and  per- 
haps they  are  a cause  of  masturbation.  When  such  is  the  case  these  operations 
should  be  performed.  Parents  should  carefully  look  after  these  conditions 
as  they,  instead  of  a depraved  mind,  are  the  causes  of  many  immoral  practices. 


POISONS. 

Symptoms,  Antidotes  and  Emergency  Remedies. 


What  to  Do  in  Case  of  Poisoning. — Give  the  antidote  at  once  and  then 
give  the  emetic  if  one  is  needed.  If  for  any  reason  the  emetic  cannot  be 
given  until  some  time  after  the  poison  has  been  taken,  it  should  not  be  given 
at  all  for  the  poison  will  then  have  had  time  to  be  absorbed  into  the  system 
and  the  emetic  would  then  do  no  good  but,  on  the  other  hand,  would  do  injury 
by  weakening  the  patient.  In  case  of  poisoning  act  quickly  for  there  is 
no  time  to  lose. 

“ What  Not  to  Do  ” in  Case  of  Poisoning. — Do  not  get  excited.  Do  not 
lose  time.  Do  not  cause  vomiting  or  use  the  stomach  pump  if  the  poisoning 
is  due  to  some  corrosive  acid. 

Acid  or  Corrosive  Poisoning. — The  mineral  acids  destroy  the  walls  of  the 
gullet  and  stomach.  They  do  not  cause  death  as  a result  of  their  being  ab- 
sorbed into  the  system  but  as  a result  of  their  destruction  of  the  structures 
with  which  they  come  in  contact.  Some  of  them,  however,  produce  many 
dangerous  changes  in  the  general  system.  Some,  like  carbolic  acid,  destroy 
life  by  paralyzing  the  nervous  system  and  particularly  the  nerves  of  the  heart. 

The  first  drink  to  give  in  corrosive  poisoning  like  poisoning  from  car- 
bolic acid,  corrosive  sublimate  or  any  of  the  mineral  acids,  is  something  muci- 
laginous or  of  a soothing  nature.  Whites  of  eggs,  milk,  flaxseed  tea,  slippery 
elm  water,  etc.,  are  mucilaginous  drinks.  The  stomach  pump  is  dangerous 
when  the  poisoning  is  due  to  a corrosive  poison  as  forcing  the  tube  into  the 
stomach  might  increase  the  local  danger  by  puncturing  the  gullet  or  stomach. 
This  refers  to  poisoning  from  carbolic  acid,  nitric  acid,  hydrochloric  or  muri- 
atic acid,  sulphuric  acid,  acetic  acid,  corrosive  sublimate,  etc. 

Neither  should  the  pump  be  used  after  poisoning  by  strong  alkalies  as 
they  also  injure  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  gullet  and  stomach  and  the  tube 
might  do  further  injury.  Emetics  would  also  increase  the  damage  done. 
Acid  poisons  are  neutralized,  or  overcome  somewhat,  by  alkalies.  Soda,  mag- 
nesia, chalk,  and  soap  are  alkalies.  Poisoning  by  alkalies  can  be  somewhat 
overcome  by  giving  vegetable  acids.  Lemon  juice  and  vinegar  are  vegetable 
acids.  V\^ater  is  also  useful  when  given  in  large  quantities. 

Antidotes  You  Should  Always  Keep  on  Hand. — Antidotes  are  medicines 
given  to  counteract,  or  overcome,  the  effects  of  poisons.  Besides  soda,  mag- 
nesia, chalk,  eggs,  flaxseed,  milk,  soap,  lard,  alum,  mustard,  tea,  lemons  and 
vinegar,  every  family  should  keep  on  hand  some  sulphate  of  copper  in  two- 
grain  doses  put  up  in  powders.  This  is  especially  good  for  poi.soning  by 
matches  or  phosphorus.  Tannin,  or  tannic  acid,  is  another  good  thing  to  al- 
ways have  handy.  It  is  usually  given  in  one-third  teaspoonful  doses.  Jeau- 
nel’s  Solution  is  another  good  thing  to  keep  handy  for  emergencies  as  it  is 
good  for  a number  of  poisons.  It  is  composed  of  2 ounces  of  calcined  mag- 
nesia, 1 ounce  of  animal  charcoal  and  20  ounces  of  water. 

Emetics  and  Other  Ways  of  Producing  Vomiting. — Emetics  are  things 

266 


POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES. 


367 


used  to  produce  vomiting.  Mustard,  alum,  lard,  salt  and  fat  drippings  are 
emetics  because  they  produce  vomiting.  The  dose  of  mustard  is  a table- 
spoonful in  half  a cup  of  lukewarm  water.  This  is  to  be  repeated  in  from 
10  to  15  minutes  if  necessary.  Give  alum  in  from  ^2  to  1 teaspoonful  doses 
dissolved  in  a little  warm  water.  Enough  goose  grease,  lard  or  fat  should  be 
given  to  cause  sickness  and  vomiting.  A tablespoonful  or  a little  more  will 
generally  give  results.  Two  teaspoonfuls  of  common  salt  dissolved  in  a 
wineglassful  of  lukewarm  water  will  often  produce  vomiting.  In  most 
cases  of  poisoning  an  emetic  is  needed  unless  the  poisoning  is  caused  by 
corrosive  or  burning  acids.  If  you  have  an  antidote  handy,  give  it  first  and 
then  quickly  get  your  mustard,  salt,  alum,  lard  or  other  emetic  and  give  it 
in  the  doses  mentioned  to  produce  vomiting.  Syrup  of  ipecac  is  a good  emetic 
and  if  you  have  it  in  the  house  you  can  give  it  in  teaspoonful  doses  and 
repeat  every  10  or  15  minutes  until,  the  desired  effect  is  produced. 

If  )^ou  use  goose  grease,  lard  or  drippings  you  should  first  heat  them 
until  they  become  liquid.  Of  course  more  than  a tablespoonful  of  these  may 
be  given  if  necessary  as  they  are  not  poisonous.  Give  them  without  putting 
, them  into  water  but  give  lukewarm  water  afterwards.  Use  these  as  men- 
tioned until  the  doctor  comes  and  in  most  cases  you  will  have  done  a good 
thing  and  the  doctor,  when  he  arrives,  can  give  the  medicines  needed. 

If  you  are  far  from  a house,  or  if  for  any  reason  there  is  no  emetic  handy, 
you  can  produce  vomiting  very  quickly  by  tickling  the  back  of  the  throat  with 
a feather  or  with  the  finger. 

Another  good  way  to  produce  vomiting  is  to  put  a rubber  tube  down  the 
throat.  This  is  to  be  used  only  in  cases  where  the  poisoning  is  not  caused 
by  corrosive  poisons.  Take  the  hard  nozzle  off  of  the  rubber  tube  of  a foun- 
tain or  bulb  syringe.  Some  nozzles  screw  on  and  if  it  is  one  of  that  kind, 
the  part  into  which  the  nozzle  screws  must  also  be  taken  off  so  that  nolhing 
but  the  soft  rubber  tube  is  used.  A soft  rubber  catheter  is  also  goofl  but 
the  wire  must  be  taken  out  before  using.  Put  the  patient  in  a chair  if 
possible  or  lift  him  up  in  bed.  Oil  the  rubber  tube,  then  have  the  patient 
open  his  mouth  or  open  it  yourself  by  force  and  put  a tooth  brush  or  knife 
handle  in  to  keep  it  open.  Turn  the  head  a little  back  and  up  and  slip  the 
tube  into  the  mouth  and  gently  push  it  down  the  gullet.  The  tickling  will 
produce  gagging  but  keep  on  and  the  patient  will  soon  vomit.  If  you  use 
a catheter,  tie  a strong  string  to  it  as  it  may  be  short  and  the  string  will  keep 
it  from  going  too  far.  If  you  cannot  get  the  mouth  open,  and  sometimes  the 
patient  will  not  let  you,  insert  the  tube  in  the  nostril  and  gently  push  it  and 
when  it  reaches  the  back  part  of  the  throat  it  will  turn  down.  Of  course  this  is 
not  pleasant  for  the  patient  but  this  will  not  be  a time  to  consider  tastes.  When 
the  tube  tickles  the  gullet  it  will  cause  forceful  vomiting,  throwing  out  the 
tube  as  well  as  the  contents  of  the  stomach.  For  this  reason,  it  is  well  when 
using  the  tube  not  to  stand  directly  in  front  of  the  patient. 

ACETIC,  NITRIC,  SULPHURIC  AND  HYDROCHLORIC  OR 

MURIATIC  ACIDS. 

Symptoms, — All  these  acids  act  somewhat  alike.  There  is  intense  burning 
in  the  throat,  gullet  and  stomach.  The  patient  finds  it  hard  to  swallow  and 
he  sometimes  vomits  the  contents  of  the  stomach  which  look  like  coffee 
grounds  mixed  with  shreds  of  mucus  and  blood.  The  pulse  is  quick,  weak 
and  generally  thready. 


268 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


What  to  Do. — Emetics  are  dangerous  so  do  not  use  them.  Give  soda, 
chalk,  magnesia  or  soap.  These  should  be  dissolved  in  water  and  should  be 
followed  with  flaxseed  tea,  slippery  elm  tea,  sassafras  tea,  milk,  or  whites  of 
eggs  and  whichever  of  these  you  use  it  should  be  followed  freely  with  castor 
oil. 

ACONITE--MONKSHOOD— WOLFSBANE. 

Symptoms. — The  skin  and  fingers  tingle  and  feel  numb.  The  throat  feels 
contracted  and  that  makes  it  difficult  to  either  swallow  or  speak.  The  patient 
looks  anxious  and  worried.  The  skin  is  dry  at  first  and  in  the  later  stages 
it  may  be  moist. 

What  to  Do. — First,  give  a third  of  a teaspoonful  of  tannic  acid  dissolved 
in  half  a glass  of  water.  Then  put  the  patient  flat  on  his  back  with  his  head 
lower  than  his  feet.  Then  inject  digitalis  hypodermically;  or,  if  you  do  not 
have  digitalis,  inject  alcohol.  Put  hot  bricks  or  hot  water  bottles  around  him. 
Whiskey  or  brandy  may  also  be  given.  Use  artificial  respiration  if  necessary. 
Directions  for  doing  this  are  given  under  “ Drowning.” 

ALCOHOL. 

Symptoms. — These  are  too  well  known  to  need  description. 

What  to  Do. — Produce  vomiting  by  giving  lukewarm  mustard  water, 
using  from  1 to  4 teaspoonfuls  of  mustard;  or,  give  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  alum  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water;  or,  give  lard  or  salt  or  produce  vomit- 
ing by  tickling  the  throat.  You  may  also  give  strong  coflfee.  Apply  cold  to 
the  head  and  warmth  to  the  arms  and  legs.  Use  artificial  respiration  if  neces- 
sary. This  is  described  under  “ Drowning.” 

AMMONIA  WATER  OR  SPIRITS  OF  HARTSHORN— LYE- 

CAUSTIC  POTASH. 

S3miptoms. — There  is  great  distress  and  burning  pain  along  the  gullet  and 
in  the  stomach.  There  is  a choking  feeling  in  the  windpipe  and  vomiting 
is  likely  to  occur  immediately. 

What  to  Do. — If  vomiting  does  not  occur  immediately,  give  vinegar  water 
or  lemon  juice  and  then  follow  with  milk  or  dissolved  vaseline  or  sweet  oil. 

ANTIMONY— TARTAR  EMETIC. 

Symptoms. — There  is  vomiting  with  burning  pain  in  stomach.  The  pa- 
tient is  very  sick  at  the  stomach,  there  is  severe  colic,  purging,  a deathly  sick 
feeling  and  great  bodily  weakness. 

What  to  Do. — Give  % teaspoonful  of  tannic  acid  dissolved  in  half  a cup 
of  water,  then  drink  freely  of  water,  warm  drinks  or  strong  tea.  Give  castor 
oil  to  empty  the  bowels  and  stimulants  like  whiskey  and  brandy  for  the  weak- 
ness. 

ARSENIC— FOWLER’S  SOLUTION  OF  ARSENIC— ARSENIOUS 

ACID— ROUGH  ON  RATS— PARIS  GREEN— ARSENATE  OF 

COPPER. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a red,  drv,  raw  and  thirsty-looking  tongue.  There 
is  terrible  thirst  and  a burning  feeling  U the  stomach  and  bowels.  The  pa- 
tient is  very  restless  and  uneasy.  There  is  vomiting  of  a watery,  burning 
liquid  and  there  are  burning  stools.  The  patient  is  very  weak. 


POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES. 


269 


What  to  Do. — Give  Jeaunel’s  Solution  as  an  antidote  if  you  have  it,  then 
give  some  emetic  such  as  mustard,  lard,  alum  or  goose  grease;  or,  produce 
vomiting  by  tickling  the  back  part  of  the  throat  with  the  finger  or  a leather. 
Then  give  whites  of  eggs  or  plenty  of  milk  and  follow  this  with  sweet  oil  or 
castor  oil  and  mild  drinks  like  sassafras  or  slippery  elm  tea. 

ATROPINE— ATROPIA— BELLADONNA— DEADLY  NIGHTSHADE. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a dry,  aching  and  contracted  throat  with  thirst  and 
difficult  swallowing.  There  is  a flushed  face  and  a beating,  throbbing  or 
pounding  head.  Dilated  pupils  and  throbbing  headache. 

What  to  Do. — As  an  antidote  give  % teaspoonful  of  tannic  acid  dissolved 
in  half  a cup  of  water  and  then  give  an  emetic  such  as  a tablespoonful  of 
mustard  in  half  a teacupful  of  lukewarm  water;  or,  alum  or  salt  may  be  dis- 
solved in  water  and  given ; or,  lard  or  fat  drippings  may  be  dissolved  and  given. 
Apply  heat  to  the  body.  Give  good  strong  coffee  and  stimulants  such  as 
whiskey  or  brandy. 

, BISMUTH  OXIDE— BISMUTH  SUBNITRATE. 

Symptoms. — There  is  violent  vomiting,  burning  in  the  stomach  and 
bowels  and  there  is  diarrhea. 

What  to  Do. — Give  Jeaunel’s  solution  as  an  antidote  if  you  have  it. 
Produce  vomiting  by  giving  mustard,  alum,  lard,  or  some  other  emetic.  Then 
give  whites  of  eggs  or  milk  and  follow  with  sweet  oil. 

BLUE  STONE— BLUE  VITRIOL— SULPHATE  OF  COPPER- 

VERDIGRIS. 

Symptoms. — There  is  sickness  at  the  stomach,  vomiting  and  retching, 
purging  of  blood  and  mucus  and  a rapid  weakening  of  the  bodily  powers. 

What  to  Do. — Give  emetics  such  as  mustard,  alum,  or  lard.  Give  sooth- 
ing drinks  like  flaxseed  or  slippery  elm  tea,  eggs,  milk  or  sweet  oil.  Wash  out 
the  stomach  with  an  alkaline  solution  and  give  anodynes  if  necessary. 

CANTHARIDES—CANTHARIS— SPANISH  FLIES. 

Symptoms. — There  is  burning  in  the  throat  and  difficult  swallowing.  The 
patient  vomits  and  the  stomach  and  bowels  are  inflamed.  There  is  violent 
pain  in  the  loins.  There  is  suppression  of  the  urine.  It  is  usually  passed 
frequently  but  in  small  quantities  and  causes  pain. 

What  to  Do. — Give  mild  soothing  drinks  such  as  flaxseed  or  slippery 
elm  teas.  Should  the  case  be  seen  early  enough  you  should  produce  vomiting. 

CARBOLIC  ACID— CREOSOTE. 

Symptoms. — The  mouth  and  throat  are  fearfully  burnt.  The  lips,  tongue 
and  mouth  are  white  and  wrinkled  and  there  is  an  odor  of  acid  in  the  breath. 
There  is  sickness  at  the  stomach,  vomiting,  frothy  saliva,  and  difficult 
swallowing. 

What  to  Do. — These  act  so  quickly  there  is  not  usually  much  you  can  do 
for  the  patient.  Get  the  doctor  at  once  if  possible.  Epsom  and  Glauber’s  salts 
are  the  best  antidotes.  The  dose  of  epsom  salts  is  from  1 to  8 teaspoonfuls 
and  of  Glauber’s  salts,  from  1 to  2 tablespoonfuls.  One  of  these  is  to  be  given 


370 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


as  an  antidote  to  move  the  bowels  freely.  Also  give  soapy  water,  whites 
of  eggs,  or  flour  water  in  large  quantities.  Apply  hot  applications  and  give 
water  and  stimulants  freely. 

CAMPHOR. 

Symptoms. — There  is  an  inflamed  stomach,  vomiting,  faintness,  dizziness, 
cold  clammy  skin,  anxious  look,  weak  pulse  and  great  weakness. 

What  to  Do. — Use  emetics  or  other  means  to  produce  vomiting.  As  an 
emetic  you  may  give  mustard,  alum,  lard,  etc.  Give  freely  of  lukewarm 
water.  Give  2 tablespoonfuls  of  epsom  salts  to  move  the  bowels.  Give 
stimulants  such  as  brandy  or  whiskey  to  keep  up  the  strength. 

CHLORAL  HYDRATE. 

Symptoms. — An  overdose  of  this  medicine  produces  deep  drowsiness  or 
deep  continued  sleep  and  a weak  heart  action. 

What  to  Do. — To  produce  vomiting  give  emetics  such  as  mustard  or 
alum  or  tickle  the  throat  with  the  finger  or  a feather ; then  give  strong  coffee 
and  apply  heat  to  the  body.  Give  stimulants  if  it  is  necessary  to  keep  the 
patient  awake. 

COBALT. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a small  and  rapid  pulse,  cold  skin,  rapid  and  diffi- 
cult breathing,  diarrhea,  pain  and  burning  in  the  stomach  and  throat  and 
violent  vomiting  and  retching. 

What  to  Do. — Give  emetics  such  as  mustard,  alum,  salt,  lard,  etc.  Also 
give  warm  water  and  mucilaginous  drinks  like  flaxseed  or  slippery  elm  tea 
or  whites  of  eggs. 

CORROSIVE  SUBLIMATE— BICHLORIDE  OF  MERCURY. 

Symptoms. — There  is  vomiting  and  purging,  at  first  of  a watery  and  then 
of  a bloody  mucus.  There  is  burning  pain  in  the  stomach  and  gullet  and  later 
there  is  suppressed  urine.  The  face  is  swollen  and  bloated  and  there  is  great 
weakness.  This  is  a terrible  poison  in  its  after  effects. 

What  to  Do. — Give  whites  of  eggs  as  an  antidote ; then  give  freely  of 
milk  or  wheat  flour  water.  Give  stimulants  when  it  is  necessary  to  keep  up 
the  strength. 

DIGITALIS— FOX  GLOVE. 

Symptoms. — There  is  an  irregular  pulse  and  heart  action,  dizziness,  cold 
sweat,  sickness  at  the  stomach  and  vomiting. 

What  to  Do. — Give  % a teaspoonful  of  tannic  acid  in  a cup  half  full 
of  water  as  an  antidote.  Then  give  strong  tea  or  coffee  whether  you  have 
the  tannic  acid  or  not.  Wash  out  the  stomach  if  possible  and  give  stimulants. 
Keep  the  patient  lying  down,  give  hot  drinks  and  put  hot  bricks  or  hot  water 
bottles  about  him. 


FLY  POISON. 

Symptoms. — Depends  upon  the  kind  of  poison.  Cobalt  is  sometimes  used, 
as  a fly  poison. 

What  to  Do. — Give  freely  of  milk,  whites  of  eggs  or  wheat  flour  water. 


POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES. 


271 


FOODS. 

Poisoning  by — cheese,  meats,  canned  goods,  etc. 

Symptoms. — There  is  nausea,  vomiting,  uneasy  feeling  and  pain  in  the 
stomach  and  bowels,  weakness,  and  a deathly  sick  feeling. 

What  to  Do. — Give  an  emetic  like  mustard,  alum,  salt  or  lard  and  then 
give  salts  to  move  the  bowels  freely.  If  you  have  no  salts  you  can  move  the 
bowels  with  injections.  Give  whiskey  or  brandy  if  it  is  necessary  to  keep 
up  the  strength. 

FOOL’S  PARSLEY. 

Symptoms. — This  is  sometimes  taken  by  mistake  for  common  parsley. 
The  throat  burns  and  sometimes  there  is  vomiting.  There  is  fainting  and 
a weak  pulse. 

What  to  Do. — Give  emetics  such  as  mustard,  salt  or  alum,  with  warm 
water.  Then  give  flaxseed  or  slippery  elm  tea. 

GAS. 

(Illuminating,  fuel  or  coal  gas.) 

Symptoms. — The  patients  are  very  drowsy  and  sometimes  it  is  hard  to 
awaken  them. 

What  to  Do. — Quickly  carry  the  person  into  the  fresh  air  and  dash  cold 
water  in  the  face.  Use  artificial  respiration  if  necessary  and  keep  up  the  work 
for  a long  time.  Directions  for  doing  this  have  been  given  in  treating 
Drowning.”  Let  the  patient  smell  of  ammonia  and  if  necessary  keep  up  the 
strength  with  stimulants. 

HELLEBORE— BLACK  HELLEBORE— SWAMP  HELLEBORE— 

INDIAN  POKE. 

Symptoms. — There  is  violent  vomiting  and  purging,  bloody,  watery  stools, 
cold  sweat  and  dizziness. 

What  to  Do. — Give  emetics  such  as  mustard,  alum,  salt,  lard,  etc.,  and 
plenty  of  warm  water.  Give  castor  oil  to  move  the  bowels.  Give  mild  drinks 
like  milk,  slippery  elm  tea  or  quince  seed  tea.  Give  stimulants  like  brandy 
or  whiskey  if  necessary. 


HEMLOCK— CONIUM. 

Symptoms. — Sickness  at  the  stomach  and  vomiting  are  early  symptoms. 
There  is  weakness  of  the  limbs  and  a staggering  gait,  double  sight,  labored 
speech  and  finally  there  is  loss  of  power  of  motion  and  loss  of  sight  and 
speech. 

What  to  Do. — First  give  an  emetic  like  mustard,  alum,  lard,  warm  water, 
etc.,  and  then  give  strong  coffee  immediately.  Stimulate  the  patient  by  making 
him  exercise.  Give  mild  drinks  like  slippery  elm  or  flaxseed  tea  as  they  delay 
the  action  of  the  poison. 

HENBANE— HYOSCYAMUS. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a thirsty,  dry  and  aching  throat.  The  pupils  are 
large,  or  dilated,  and  there  is  dimness  of  sight.  The  symptoms  are  less 
violent  than  those  of  belladonna  and  stramonium. 

What  to  Do. — Give  % of  a teaspoonful  of  tannic  acid  dissolved  in  half 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


m 

a cup  of  water,  as  an  antidote.  Give  an  emetic  like  mustard,  alum,  salt,  lard, 
etc.,  and  then  give  strong  coffee.  Apply  cold  to  the  head  and  warmth  to  the 
feet.  Give  stimulants  like  brandy  or  whiskey,  if  necessary. 

IVY  POISONING— POISON  OAK— SUMACH  BERRIES— RHUS 

TOXICODENDRON. 

Symptoms. — The  skin  itches  and  burns;  there  are  swelling  blisters  and 
they  secrete  a watery  fluid. 

What  to  Do. — Equal  parts  of  melted  lard  and  tallow  makes  a soothing 
dressing.  Equal  parts  of  powdered  borax  and  sugar,  applied  locally,  are  good. 
Powdered  sugar  of  lead  is  one  of  the  best  treatments  when  applied  freely 
upon  the  affected  parts.  Take  1 part  of  oxide  of  zinc  and  5 parts  of  lard;  mix 
thoroughly,  and  apply  to  the  affected  parts. 

IODINE. 

Symptoms. — The  brown  color  of  the  mouth  shows  when  iodine  has  been 
taken. 

What  to  Do. — First  give  an  emetic  like  alum,  mustard,  lard,  or  salt,  and 
warm  water  and  then  give  starch  water,  flour  water  or  whites  of  eggs. 

LEAD— SUGAR  OF  LEAD— PLUMBUM— (Painter’s  Colic). 

Symptoms. — This  is  usually  chronic.  There  is  obstinate  constipation 
with  cramps.  There  is  sickness  at  the  stomach  and  vomiting  of  a white  curd- 
like material.  The  bowel  movements  are  of  a blackish  color. 

What  to  Do. — Give  from  2 to  4 tablespoonfuls  of  epsom  salts  and  follow 
with  the  whites  of  eggs,  milk,  or  wheat  flour  water. 

MUSHROOMS. 

(Toad  Stools.) 

Symptoms. — There  is  sickness  at  the  stomach,  retching,  vomiting,  cold 
sweat  and  a cold  skin. 

What  to  Do. — Give  an  emetic  such  as  mustard,  alum,  lard,  or  warm  salt 
water;  then  give  strong  coffee,  whiskey  or  brandy,  if  needed,  and  apply  heat 
to  the  extremities. 

NITRATE  OF  SILVER— LUNAR  CAUSTIC. 

Symptoms. — There  is  burning  pain  in  the  stomach,  sickness  at  the 
stomach,  distress,  vomiting,  and  sometimes  purging. 

What  to  Do. — Give  common  dry  salt  as  an  antidote  and  then  cause  vomit- 
ing by  giving  warm  salt  water  freely.  You  may  give  other  emetics  like  alum, 
mustard  or  lard  and  then  give  milk  or  the  whites  of  eggs  and  plenty  of  castor 
oil  to  move  the  bowels. 

OXALIC  ACID. 

Symptoms. — This  acid  is  used  for  removing  stains  but  is  sometimes  taken 
by  mistake  for  epsom  salts  or  salts  of  lemon.  It  is  an  irritating  poison.  The 
patient  vomits  and  the  matter  vomited  is  of  a greenish  brown  color.  The 
patient  is  very  weak. 

What  to  Do. — Give  lime,  magnesia,  chalk,  or  whitewash  scraped  from  the 
wall.  Any  of  these  should  be  dissolved  in  water. 


POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES. 


273 


OIL  OF  CEDAR. 

* Symptoms. — There  is  heat  in  the  stomach  and  convulsions. 

What  to  Do. — Cause  vomiting  quickly  by  giving  mustard,  alum,  or  lard; 
or-  give  1 to  5 drops  of  fluid  extract  of  ipecac.  Then  give  stimulants  like 
brand}?-  or  whiskey  if  necessary. 

OIL  OF  RUE. 

Symptoms. — The  mouth  and  throat  are  dry  and  there  is  heat  and  pain 
in  the  stomach  and  bowels. 

What  to  Do. — Quickly  give  an  emetic  like  alum,  mustard,  lard  or  ipecac. 
Give  stimulants  like  brandy  or  whiskey  if  necessary. 

OIL  OF  SAVIN— SABINA. 

Symptoms. — Its  odor  appears  in  the  breath,  perspiration  and  urine.  This 
is  a dangerous  remedy  for  women  to  use. 

Treatment. — If  the  case  is  seen  early  enough,  give  an  emetic  such  as 
mustard,  alum,  lard,  etc.,  and  follow  with  lemonade  and  bland  drinks  like 
flaxseed,  slippery  elm  or  quince  seed  tea. 

OIL  OF  TANSY. 

Symptoms. — Weak  heart  action,  pain  in  lower  abdomen,  heat  in  stomach, 
and  convulsions.  This  is  a dangerous  medicine  for  women  to  use. 

What  to  Do. — If  the  case  is  seen  early  enough  give  an  emetic  like  alum, 
mustard  or  salt  and  warm  water.  Follow  with  bland  drinks  like  slippery 
elm,  flaxseed  or  quince  seed  tea.  Give  castor  oil  to  move  the  bowels  and 
give  stimulants  if  necessary. 

OPIUM— MORPHINE— LAUDANUM— CODEINE. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a sound  and  snoring  sleep  with  slow  and  irregular 
breathing.  The  skin  is  cold  and  clammy  and  the  pupils  are  very  small  like 
pin  points.  If  a large  dose  has  been  taken  the  symptoms  increase  in  severity, 
the  pulse  becomes  small  and  the  breathing  is  reduced  from  18  down  to  5 or  6 
breaths  per  minute.  Control  of  the  movements  of  the  bowels  is  lost  and  there 
is  stupor  and  death. 

What  to  Do. — Emetics  must  be  given  in  large  doses  and  repeated  every 
10  minutes  for  3 or  4 times.  You  must  produce  vomiting  in  some  way.  Give 
mustard  or  alum  in  warm  water  or  give  some  other  emetic.  Inject  a pint  or 
two  of  warm  cofiPee  into  the  bowels  and  have  the  patient  swallow  some  if 
possible.  After  doing  these  things  make  the  patient  keep  moving.  This  is 
essential.  Send  for  the  doctor  the  first  thing  and  while  he  is  coming  do  as 
before  directed. 

PHOSPHORUS— RAT  POISON— MATCHES. 

S}miptoms. — There  is  pain  and  burning  in  the  stomach  with  vomiting 
and  purging.  Sometimes  the  vomit  and  stools  are  phosphorescent. 

What  to  Do. — Use  emetics  like  alum,  mustard  or  lard.  These  should  be 
used  freely  to  produce  vomiting.  The  emetic  should  be  followed  with  1 or  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  epsom  salts  to  move  the  bowels.  Then  give  drinks  like 
whites  of  eggs,  sassafras  tea,  etc.  If  you  have  it,  use  from  2 to  3 grains  of 
sulphate  of  copper  every  10  or  15  minutes  to  produce  the  vomiting. 

18 


274 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


PRUSSIC  ACID— HYDROCYANIC  ACID. 

Symptoms. — There  is  great  weakness,  a weak  fluttering  pulse  and  cold 
extremities.  As  a rule  death  follows  very  quickly. 

What  to  Do. — Keep  up  the  strength  by  the  use  of  whiskey  or  brandy. 
Apply  cold  to  the  head  and  spine  and  friction  and  blisters  upon  the  chest 
and  put  hot  applications  to  the  feet. 

STRYCHNINE— NUX  VOMICA. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a bitter  taste  in  the  mouth.  The  muscles  and  limbs 
are  rigid ; the  face  drawn  into  a .terrible-looking  smile ; the  lower  jaw  is 
immovable;  the  neck  is  stiff  and  the  muscles  of  the  body  jerk  terribly. 

What  to  Do. — Send  quickly  for  a doctor  and  meanwhile  give  % tea- 
spoonful of  tannic  acid  in  coffee  or  tea.  The  coffee  or  tea  is  better  if  it  has 
stood  for  some  time.-  Give  plenty  of  strong  coffee  even  if  you  do  not  have 
tannic  acid.  Then  give  emetics  in  large  doses  to  produce  vomiting.  You 
can  use  alum,  mustard  or  lard  ; or,  you  can  produce  vomiting  by  tickling  the 
back  part  of  the  throat.  Put  a tooth  brush  or  similar  article  between  the 
teeth  to  hold  mouth  open.  Move  the  bowels  freely  with  large  doses  of 
epsom,  rochelle  or  Glauber’s  salts. 

THORN  APPLE— STRAMONIUM. 

Symptoms. — ^The  pupils  are  large  and  the  throat  dry.  The  symptoms  are 
similar  to  those  caused  by  belladonna. 

What  to  Do. — Give  % teaspoonful  of  tannic  acid  in  half  a glass  of  water 
as  an  antidote.  Then  give  emetics  like  mustard,  alum  or  lard  and  follow 
with  coffee  and  stimulants  like  brandy  and  whiskey. 

TOBACCO— NICOTINE. 

Symptoms. — If  taken  by  a child  you  can  smell  it  in  the  breath.  There 
is  sickness  at  the  stomach  and  perhaps  vomiting.  There  is  a cold  sweat,  weak 
and  relaxed  muscles,  a staggering  walk  and  dizziness. 

What  to  Do. — Give  an  emetic  like  mustard,  lard  or  alum  and  lots  of 
warm  water.  Give  a purgative  to  move  the  bowels  and  give  stimulants  like 
brandy,  whiskey,  wine,  coffee  or  tea,  and  apply  heat. 


THE  PEOPLE'S  PRESCRIPTIONS  FOR  LINIMENTS, 
OILS,  SALVES,  PLASTERS,  OINTMENTS, 
POULTICES,  ETC. 


CHOICE  FAMILY  RECIPES  GATHERED  FROM  ALL  OVER  THE 

WORLD. 


LINIMENTS. 

A liniment  is  an  oily  liquid  preparation  to  be  rubbed  upon  the  skin.  Some 
liniments  are  called  oils.  Liniments  are  liquid  preparations  of  tinctures  and 
other  ingredients  for  external  application  to  swollen,  inflamed  or  painful 
parts  and  should  be  applied  with  a piece  of  flannel  or  cotton  or  with  the  hand. 
Always  shake  liniments  before  using.  Never^  take  them  internally  unless 
directed  to  do  so  and  never  bring  them  near  a light  or  fire. 

1.  Camphor  Liniment. — Use  1 part  of  camphor  to  4 parts  of  cotton 
seed  oil.  This  makes  an  excellent  camphor  liniment. 

2.  Iodine  and  Ammonia  Liniment. — A liniment  made  of  equal  parts 
of  iodine  and  aqua  ammonia,  say  2 ounces  of  each,  well  rubbed  in,  is  excellent 
for  sciatic  rheumatism. 

3.  Golden  Oil  for  Rheumatism. — To  4 ounces  each  of  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine and  linseed  oil  add  2 ounces  each  of  iodine  and  aqua  ammonia;  mix, 
shake,  and  apply  as  needed. 

4.  Saltpeter  Liniment. — To  a pint  of  sweet  oil  add  an  ounce  of  pulver- 
ized saltpeter  and  you  have  a cheap  but  very  effective  application  for  in- 
flammatory rheumatism. 

5.  Mustang  Liniment. — Mix  4 ounces  each  of  olive  oil  and  spirits  of 
hartshorn  and  add  2 ounces  of  vinegar  and  a pint  of  crude  petroleum. 

6.  Oriental  Balm. — To  2 quarts  of  raw  linseed  oil  add  2 ounces  of  gum 
camphor  and  % ounce  each  of  oils  of  cajeput  and  thyme  and  ounce  each 
of  oils  of  anise  and  wintergreen.  The  dose  for  a grown  person  is  a teaspoon- 
ful in  a little  water  internally  as  often  as  required.  Apply  externally  3 or  4 
times  a day.  Good  also  for  bee  stings. 

7.  Liniment  for  Man  or  Beast. — Mix  equal  parts  of  turpentine  and  coal 
oil  and  if  for  man  add  a little  sweet  oil  to  keep  from  blistering.  This  liniment 
is  fine  for  all  kinds  of  sprains,  sores,  swellings  and  frostbites. 

8.  Oil  of  Gladness. — Mix  2 ounces  of  camphor  gum  with  1 ounce  each 
of  oils  of  hemlock,  sassafras,  cedar  and  origanum ; when  the  gum  camphor  is 
dissolved  add  2 quarts  of  raw  linseed  oil.  It  may  be  applied  externally 
or  it  may  be  taken  internally  in  from  % to  1 teaspoonful  doses.  This  makes 
a fine  liniment  and  it  is  inexpensive. 

9.  Hamlin’s  Wizard  Oil. — Take  1 ounce  of  spirits  of  camphor,  % ounce 
each  of  oil  of  sassafras  and  aqua  ammonia,  2 drams  of  oil  of  cloves,  4 drams  of 
chloroform  and  6 drams  each  of  dilute  alcohol  and  spirits  of  turpentine. 

10.  Perry  Davis’s  Pain  Killer. — Mix  2 ounces  of  spirits  of  camphor,  1 

275 


276 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


ounce  of  tincture  of  capsicum,  % ounce  of  gum  guaiac,  % ounce  of  gum 
myrrh  and  3 ounces  of  alcohol. 

11.  Radway’s  Ready  Relief  (R.  R.  R.) — To  IV2  ounces  of  soap  liniment 
add  half  an  ounce  each  of  water  of  ammonia,  alcohol  and  tincture  of  capsicum. 

12.  Giles’s  Liniment. — To  V2  pi^^t  of  alcohol  add  1 ounce  of  aqua  am- 
monia, 1/4  ounce  of  camphor  gum,  15  grains  of  iodine  and  1 dram  each  of 
oils  of  lavender  and  rosemary. 

13.  Dr.  Raymond’s  Liniment. — To  1 pint  of  alcohol  add  1 ounce  each 
of  camphor  gum  and  spirits  of  turpentine,  and  I/2  ounce  each  of  oil  of  worm- 
wood and  tincture  of  cantharides.  This  is  for  external  use  only.  This  excel- 
lent liniment  for  general  purposes  was  sent  us  by  a lady  in  Canada  who  has 
used  it  with  fine  results. 

14.  Good  Samaritan  Liniment. — To  1 quart  of  best  alcohol  add  oils  of 
hemlock  and  sassafras,  spirits  of  turpentine,  tincture  of  cayenne,  guaiacum, 
catechu  and  laudanum,  of  each  1/2  ounce;  tincture  of  myrrh,  2 ounces;  oil  of 
origanum  and  camphor  gum,  each  1 ounce;  chloroform,  % ounce  and  oil  of 
wintergreen,  14  ounce.  This  is  excellent  for  rheumatism,  weak  back,  swell- 
ings, bruises,  cuts,  sprains  and  corns. 

15.  Cure-All  Liniment. — Take  an  ounce  each  of  finely  cut  opium,  gum 
camphor,  gum  myrrh,  oil  of  sassafras  and  pulverized  cayenne  and  half  an 
ounce  each  of  oil  of  hemlock,  oil  of  worrnwood,  oil  of  red  cedar,  spirits  of 
turpentine  and  hartshorn  and'a  quart  of  best  alcohol.  Mix  these  and  let  stand 
for  10  or  12  days  and  then  strain  or  filter.  This  will  prove  a very  effective 
liniment  for  general  purposes. 

16.  Lightning  Liniment. — This  is  good  for  rheumatism  and  nervous 
affections.  Mix  an  ounce  each  of  chloroform  and  ether,  2 ounces  of  laudanum 
and  4 ounces  of  spirits  of  turpentine.  Bathe  the  affected  parts  with  this 
liniment  and  it  will  act  like  lightning. 

17.  Chloroform  Liniment. — Put  % ounce  of  gum  camphor  into  1 fluid 
ounce  of  chloroform  and  shake  until  dissolved  and  then  add  1 ounce  of  olive 
oil  and  1 dram  of  tincture  of  cantharides.  Keep  well  corked.  This  is  fine 
for  all  kinds  of  sprains  and  strains. 

18.  The  Best  Liniment. — To  6 ounces  of  spirits  of  ether  add  2 ounces 
each  of  alcohol,  chloroform,  spirits  of  camphor,  aqua  ammonia  and  tincture 
of  aconite  root.  This  is  for  external  purposes  only.  Rub  this  on  the  bowels 
and  it  will  cure  any  kind  of  colic.  It  is  good  for  colic,  strains,  bunions  and 
all  other  aches  and  pains. 

19.  German  Liniment. — To  1 quart  of  alcohol  add  2 ounces  each  of  harts- 
horn and  oil  of  sassafras,  1 ounce  each  of  laudanum  and  spirits  of  camphor, 
% ounce  of  spirits  of  turpentine  and  ^4  ounce  of  tincture  of  kino.  The  dose  is 
from  V2  to  1 teaspoonful  internally  for  colic.  This  dose  may  be  repeated  in 
45  minutes  if  necessary. 

20.  Liniment  for  Old  Sores. — This  liniment  is  one  of  the  very  best  for 
sores  of  long  standing  and  is  also  good  for  cuts,  bruises  and  rheumatism. 
Take  1 pint  of  alcohol;  2 ounces  of  aqua  ammonia;  1 ounce  each  of  camphor 
gum,  oil  of  origanum,  gum  myrrh  and  tincture  of  opium  and  1 tablespoonful 
of  salt.  Let  stand  for  a week,  shaking  occasionally,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

21.  German  Rheumatic  Fluid. — Put  into  a quart  bottle  % ounce  each 
of  oil  of  cedar,  oil  of  hemlock,  gum  camphor  and  spirits  of  turpentine  and  1 
ounce  each  of  oil  of  sassafras,  oil  of  origanum,  aqua  ammonia  and  pulverized 


LINIMENTS,  OILS,  SALVES,  ETC. 


277 


capsicum;  then  fill  the  bottle  with  best  alcohol.  Externally  this  is  fine  for 
neuralgia,  rheumatism  and  strains.  It  is  also  fine  for  horses. 

22.  Cook’s  Electric  Magnetic  Liniment.— To  two  quarts  of  best  alcohol 
add  4 ounces  each  of  gum  camphor  and  oil  of  amber,  1 ounce  of  finely  shaved 
castile  soap,  2 ounces  of  beef’s  gall  and  6 ounces  of  ammonia  (3F  strong). 
Let  stand  for  12  hours,  shaking  frequently.  This  is  good  for  strains,  swell- 
ings, sore  throat  and  asthma. 

23.  Compound  Camphor  Liniment.— Dissolve  6 drams  of  camphor  in 
a fluid  ounce  of  chloroform  and  add  a fluid  ounce  of  olive  oil.  This  liniment 
cannot  be  beaten  for  sprains,  rheumatism  and  neuralgia. 

24.  Kerosene  Liniment.— Dissolve  2 ounces  of  camphor  gum  in  a pint  of 
kerosene.  This  liniment  will  not  cost  more  than  ten  cents  but  it  is  a dandy 
for  rheumatism. 

25.  Liniment  for  Spinal  Affections. — Put  into  a quart  bottle  2 ounces 
each  of  oil  of  origanum,  wormwood,  gum  camphor  and  spirits  of  turpentine; 
then  fill  the  bottle  with  best  alcohol. 

26.  Great  London  Liniment. — To  an  ounce  each  of  olive  oil,  aqua  am- 
monia and  chloroform  add  10  grains  of  acetate  of  morphia.  This  is  a valuable 
liniment  for  general  purposes. 

27.  Gum  Liniment. — To  a pint  of  alcohol  add  t/4  ounce  each  of  cayenne 
pepper,  gum  camphor,  gum  opium  and  gum  myrrh.  Let  this  stand  for  3 or  4 
days,  shaking  occasionally. 

28.  Lobelia  and  Cayenne  Liniment. — Into  a pint  bottle  put  % ounce 
of  pulverized  cayenne  and  1 ounce  of  lobelia  herb.  Fill  the  bottle  with 
whiskey  and  in  12  or  15  days  it  is  ready  for  use.  It  is  fine  for  cuts,  bruises, 
sprains  and  strains  in  either  man  or  beast. 

29.  St.  John’s  Liniment. — Correct  for  all  practical  purposes.  Take  7% 
ounces  each  of  oil  of  turpentine  and  seneca  oil ; 3%  ounces  each  of  sweet  oil, 
origanum,  amber,  juniper  and  laudanum;  % ounce  of  spirits  of  ammonia  and 
1/4  ounce  of  gum  camphor. 

30.  Lime  and  Oil  Liniment. — This  is  fine  for  burns,  scalds  and  sunburns. 
Mix  and  shake  well  equal  parts  of  limewater,  camphor  and  linseed  oil. 

31.  Camphorated  Liniment. — Dissolve  1 ounce  of  camphor  in  4 ounces 
of  olive  oil.  This  is  very  fine  for  colds,  sore  throat,  inflammation  of  the 
lungs,  swollen  breasts  and  glandular  enlargements  of  all  kinds. 

32.  Soap  Liniment  with  Soap. — This  is  fine  for  bruises,  sore  throat, 
swellings  and  rheumatism.  Into  Wo  pints  of  alcohol  shave  2 ounces  of  white 
bar  soap  and  when  dissolved  add  1 ounce  each  of  gum  camphor  and  aqua 
ammonia  (3F  strong),  3 drams  of  oil  of  rosemary  and  2 drams  of  oil  of 
origanum.  This  forms  a soft  soapy  mass  which  is  to  be  applied  as  other 
liniments. 

33.  Soap  Liniment  without  Soap. — This  is  good  for  croup,  rheumatism, 
swellings  and  tumors.  Mix  2 ounces  of  sweet  oil,  1 ounce  of  aqua  ammonia, 
% ounce  of  spirits  of  camphor  and  t/2  ounce  of  spirits  of  turpentine, 

34.  Soap  Liniment  with  Spanish  Flies. — This  is  used  externally  to 
stimulate  chronic  bruises,  rheumatic  pains,  sprains  and  swellings.  Take  1% 
ounces  of  soap  liniment  and  add  to  it  % ounce  of  tincture  of  Spanish  flies. 
Shake,  thoroughly. 

35.  Nye’s  Liniment. — Used  for  all  kinds  of  bruises,  sprains  and  fresh 
wounds  of  man  or  beast.  It  is  also  good  for  croup  and  rheumatism.  To  2 


278 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


quarts  of  alcohol  add  % pound  of  camphor  gum,  2 ounces  each  of  oil  of 
spike  and  origanum  and  1%  ounces  of  tincture  of  capsicum. 

36.  British  Oil. — Take  2 ounces  of  oil  of  turpentine,  2 ounces  of  oil  of 
linseed  or  flaxseed,  1 ounce  of  oil  of  amber,  1 dram  of  oil  of  juniper,  % ounce 
of  petroleum  and  ounce  of  senega  oil ; put  together  and  shake  thoroughly. 

37.  Diuretic  Liniment  for  Kidney  and  Bladder  Troubles. — To  6 ounces 
of  best  alcohol  add  1 ounce  each  of-  oils  of  juniper,  horsemint  and  spearmint. 
Rub  thoroughly  over  the  kidneys  3 or  4 times  a day. 

38.  Liniment  for  Burns. — Equal  parts  of  cod  liver  oil  and  chloroform 
used  as  a liniment  will  relieve  the  pain  of  burns. 

39.  Camphor  and  Onion  Liniment. — This  is  fine  for  quinsy,  scrofulous 
swellings  and  tumors.  Simmer  together  for  5 minutes  8 ounces  of  olive  oil 
and  half  an  ounce  of  ripe  onion ; strain,  and  add  2 ounces  of  gum  camphor 
and  rub  until  dissolved. 

40.  Cramp  Liniment. — Heat  8 ounces  of  whiskey  or  rum  and  pour  upon 
half  an  ounce  of  cayenne.  Dip  cloths  in  this  and  apply  to  the  affected  parts 
and  the  pain  of  cramps  will  soon  be  relieved. 

41.  Hartshorn  Liniment. — Take  8 ounces  of  sweet  oil,  2 ounces  of  spirits 
of  hartshorn  and  1 dram  of  cayenne ; cork  up  and  shake  occasionally  for  a 
week  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Used  for  sprains  and  bruises. 

42.  Mexican  ^ustang  Liniment. — Take  2 ounces  of  petroleum,  1 ounce 
of  ammonia  water,  % ounce  of  naphtha,  % ounce  of  crude  oleic  acid  and  1 
dram  of  brandy. 

43.  St.  Jacob’s  Oil. — To  2 quarts  of  alcohol  add  1 ounce  each  of  gum 
camphor,  chloroform,  chloral  hydrate  and  sulphuric  ether  and  ^2  ounce  each 
of  oil  of  origanum,  tincture  of  opium  and  oil  of  sassafras.  For  external  use 
only. 

44.  Dr.  White’s  Liniment. — Dissolve  half  an  ounce  each  of  saltpeter 
and  camphor  gum  in  half  a pint  of  strong  alcohol ; add  half  a pint  of  spirits 
of  turpentine  and  a quart  of  beef’s  brine  which  has  been  scalded  and  skimmed. 
Shake  well  before  using.  This  is  excellent  for  weak  back  and  spinal  troubles 
of  all  kinds. 

45.  Cayenne  Liniment. — Steep,  but  not  boil,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cayenne 
pepper  in  a teacupful  of  good  vinegar,  strain,  and  bottle  for  use.  This  will 
cause  heat  and  is  fine  for  rheumatism. 

46.  Vinegar  and  Camphor  Liniment. — Take  half  a pint  each  of  strong 
cider  vinegar  and  spirits  of  camphor,  a pint  of  soft  water  and  i/2  ounce  of 
muriate  of  ammonia.  Wet  sheets  in  this  liniment  and  wrap  the  patient 
suffering  with  inflammatory  rheumatism. 

47.  Liniment  for  Ladies. — To  a quart  of  good  alcohol  add  an  ounce  each 
of  camphor  gum,  laudanum,  sulphuric  ether,  chloroform,  oil  of  cedar  and 
tinctures  of  capsicum  and  myrrh ; and  also,  ounce  each  of  cajeput,  worm- 
wood, cloves  and  oil  of  peppermint.  This  liniment  is  neither  very  burning 
nor  oily  like  many  liniments  and  is  therefore  particularly  liked  by  ladies. 
This  is  a fine  liniment  and  especially  for  rheumatism. 

48.  Golden  Oil  or  Strong  Camphor  Liniment. — To  a pint  of  good  alcohol 
add  2 ounces  of  camphor  gum,  an  ounce  each  of  oil  of  origanum,  sassafras, 
hemlock  and  tincture  of  cayenne  and  half  an  ounce  each  of  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine, oil  of  cajeput,  sulphuric  ether  and  chloroform.  Keep  well  corked.  This 
is  one  of  the  very  best  and  strongest  liniments  made,  though  not  quite  as 


LINIMENTS,  OILS,  SALVES,  ETC. 


279 


cheap  as  some.  As  a pain  killer  it  may  be  used  both  internally  and  externally. 
The  internal  dose  is  from  15  drops  to  a teaspoonful  in  a little  sweetened  water. 
It  may  be  repeated  in  20  minutes  if  necessary. 

' 49.  Magnetic  Liniment.— Take  1 pint  of  alcohol,  1 ounce  each  of  oil  of 

origanum  and  sulphuric  ether  and  2 drams  each  of  tincture  of  cantharides 
and  muriate  of  ammonia.  For  external  use  only. 

50.  Electric  Liniment.— Take  aqua  ammonia,  spirits  of  turpentine,  sweet 
oil,  tincture  of  camphor  and  laudanum ; of  each  equal  parts.  This  is  a valu- 
able liniment  for  all  kinds  of  acute  pain. 

51.  Dr.  Vicker’s  Celebrated  Embrocation. — To  1 quart  of  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine add  1 ounce  of  oil  of  sassafras,  1 ounce  of  oil  of  origanum,  1 ounce 
of  oil  of  amber  and  1 teaspoonful  of  black  oil  of  amber  to  color.  This  is  fine 
for  sore  throat,  sprains,  bruises,  rheumatism  and  lumbago  and  is  also  good 
for  thiselo  and  poll  evil  in  horses.  The  gentleman  sending  this  recipe  lives 
at  Alliance,  Ohio  and  is  over  80  years  old.  He  says:  “We  have  had  this 
recipe  in  the  home  for  over  50  years  and  always  keep  it  on  hand.  We  think 
it  is  the  best  liniment  we  have  ever  used.” 

52.  Arthritic  Liniment. — Take  1 gallon  of  alcohol,  % pint  of  spirits  of 
turpentine,  % pound  of  African  cayenne  pepper,  % ounce  oil  of  hemlock, 
1/4  ounce  oil  of  pennyroyal,  % ounce  oil  of  origanum,  % ounce  of  oil  of 
sassafras  and  1%  ounces  of  camphor  gum.  Tincture  the  cayenne  pepper  in 
the  alcohol  and  cut  the  camphor  and  the  oils  in  the  turpentine.  Mix  and 
shake  well  and  the  liniment  is  ready  for  use.  The  man  sending  this  recipe 
says : “ I secured  this  recipe  during  the  war  of  1864.  It  is  a good  all-round 
liniment.” 

53.  Solon  Day’s  Liniment. — Mix  2 ounces  of  ammonia,  2 ounces  of  alcohol 
and  15  grains  of  iodine.  Keep  well  corked.  This  is  a first  class  liniment.  The 
iodine  will  cause  it  to  stain  the  parts,  however. 

54.  Liniment  for  Colds  and  Neuralgia. — Take  % ounce  each  of  camphor, 
spirits  of  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and  sweet  oil  and  apply  externally  for 
cold  in  the  chest,  neuralgia,  sore  throat  and  rheumatism.  For  external  use 
only. 

55.  Simple  Liniment. — To  half  a pint  of  olive  oil,  add  a small  cake  of 
camphor,  a tablespoonful  of  coal  oil,  15  drops  of  carbolic  acid  and  bring  to  a 
boil. 

56.  Dr.  Ritter’s  Liniment. — Take  2 ounces  of  camphor  gum,  1 ounce  of 
ammonia  water,  1 ounce  of  turpentine,  3 ounces  of  sweet  oil,  3 ounces  of 
kerosene,  2 ounces  of  laudanum  and  4 ounces  of  alcohol.  This  will  make  a 
pint  in  all.  First  dissolve  the  camphor  in  the  alcohol,  then  add  the  other 
ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly.  Shake  each  time  before  using. 

57.  Four  Oil  Liniment. — Take  equal  parts  of  oil  of  cedar,  oil  of  cajeput, 
oil  of  cloves  and  oil  of  sassafras.  Rub  on  the  affected  parts  3 or  4 times  a 
day.  Good  for  rheumatic  and  other  painful  affections. 

58.  Asthma  Liniment. — Mix  1 ounce  of  oil  of  stillingea,  % ounce  of  oil 
of  cajeput,  2 drams  of  oil  of  lobelia  and  2 ounces  of  alcohol.  This  may  be 
weakened  if  necessary  by  using  but  half  the  quantity  of  the  oils  and  3 ounces 
of  alcohol.  This  liniment  is  good  for  asthma,  croup,  St.  Vitus’  dance,  sprains 
and  /heumatic  pains.  It  is  very  prompt  and  effective  in  asthma. 

59.  Whooping  Cough  Liniment. — Mix  1 ounce  of  oil  of  stillingea,  1 
ounce  of  rectified  oil  of  amber,  3 drams  of  oil  of  lobelia  and  2 ounces  of  olive 


380 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


oil.  This  is  to  be  used  the  same  as  other  liniments.  It  is  good  for  whooping 
cough,  asthma,  chorea,  rheumatism  and  sciatica. 

GO.  Asthma  and  Pneumonia  Liniment. — Take  21/2  ounces  of  rose  water, 
the  yolk  of  1 egg,  3 ounces  of  oil  of  turpentine,  1/2  dram  of  oil  of  lemon  and  1 
ounce  of  strong  vinegar.  Add  the  rose  water  slowly  to  the  yolk  and  rub  to- 
gether; then  add  the  turpentine  and  lemon;  pour  the  mixture  into  a pint 
bottle  and  shake  well  and  then  add  the  vinegar  and  shake  quickly  and  briskly. 
Keep  well  corked.  This  is  good  for  asthma  and  pneumonia  when  rubbed 
thoroughly  with  a cloth  upon  the  stomach,  chest  and  throat. 

Gl.  Pleurisy  Liniment, — Take  2 ounces  of  tincture  of  capsicum,  2 drams 
of  tincture  of  opium,  3 drams  of  water  of  ammonia,  2 drams  of  oil  of  origa- 
num, 1 dram  of  oil  of  cinnamon  and  1 dram  of  tincture  of  camphor.  This  is 
good  to  relieve  the  pain  of  pleurisy,  rheumatism  and  neuralgia. 

62.  Nerve  Liniment  and  Pain  Killer. — Take  1V2  ounces  of  spirits  of 
hartshorn,  IV2  ounces  of  sulphuric  ether,  I/2  ounce  of  spirits  of  turpentine, 
% ounce  of  sweet  oil,  V2  ounce  of  oil  of  cloves  and  1 ounce  of  chloroform. 
This  is  for  external  application  and  is  good  for  man  and  beast. 

SALVES  AND  PLASTERS. 

1.  Mother’s  Salve. — Melt  together  1 ounce  each  of  lard,  rosin  and 
beeswax;  remove  from  the  fire  and  when  practically  cool  add  1 ounce  of  oil 
of  spikenard. 

2.  Salve  for  Cuts,  Bruises  and  Corns. — Take  1 pound  each  of  rosin, 
beeswax  and  sheep’s  tallow  and  11^4  pounds  of  raw  linseed  oil.  Simmer  down 
until  of  the  proper  consistency.  A lady  writes : “ We  think  so  much  of  this 
recipe  that  my  granddaughter  has  taken  it  to  India  with  her  where  she 
has  gone  as  a missionary.” 

3.  Gunpowder  Salve  for  Chilblains. — Rub  together  equal  parts  of 
lard  and  gunpowder  and  you  will  have  a salve  that  will  cure  frostbites  and 
chilblains. 

4.  Salve  for  Chaps  and  Cracks. — Simmer  together  % ounce  of  bees- 
wax, 1 ounce  of  mutton  tallow  and  5 ounces  of  rosin.  Make  into  rolk  and 
when  needed  spread  on  a cloth  and  apply  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 

5.  Salve  for  Abscesses,  Broken  Breasts  and  Fever  Sores. — Steep  % 
ounce  of  tobacco  in  1 pint  of  rain  water,  boil  down  to  1 gill  and  strain.  Then 
add  1/2  ounce  each  of  melted  lard,  beeswax  and  rosin  and  simmer  until  it 
makes  a thick  salve  and  then  add  a gill  of  old  rum. 

6.  Felon  Salve. — Shave  some  soap  very  fine,  moisten  with  spirits  of 
turpentine  and  apply  to  the  felon.  A fine  salve  for  felons. 

7.  Effectual  Corn  Salve. — Simmer  together  a teaspoonful  each  of  pine 
tar,  brown  sugar  and  saltpeter.  After  paring  the  corn  spread  the  salve  on  a 
piece  of  thin  leather  and  bind  on  for  two  or  three  days.  A piece  of  old  kid 
glove  will  do  nicely  for  the  leather. 

8.  Carbolic  Salve  or  Balsam. — Melt  together  10  ounces  of  vaseline  and 
0 ounces  of  white  wax,  add  an  ounce  of  balsam  of  fir  and  when  nearly  cool 
stir  in  half  an  ounce  of  carbolic  acid.  Put  into  a glass  jar  or  tin  box  and  keep 
tightly  covered.  This  is  fine  for  burns  and  sores. 

9.  Salve  for  Cracks,  Wounds  and  Pains. — Melt  1%  pounds  of  rosin  and 
when  it  has  cooled  a little  stir  in  2 ounces  of  balsam  of  fir,  then  a pint  of 


LINIMENTS,  OILS,  SALVES,  ETC. 


281 


spirits  of  turpentine  and  lastly,  1 ounce  of  oil  of  hemlock.  If  this  is  too  soft 
add  a little  more  rosin  and  use  a little  less  turpentine. 

10.  Salve  for  Wounds,  Burns  and  Old  Sores. — Take  half  a pound  of 
beeswax,  half  a pound  of  salty  butter,  a quarter  of  a pound  of  turpentine  and 
6 ounces  of  balsam  of  fir.  Simmer  these  together  for  half  an  hour  and  when 
cool  the  salve  is  ready  for  use.  A lady  in  Massachusetts  writes  that  she  has 
used  this  for  years  for  wounds,  burns  and  old  sores  and  has  never  found  its  ' 
equal. 

11.  Onion  Salve. — Slice  a medium  sized  onion  into  4 ounces  of  vaseline, 
stew  together  and  strain.  Apply  two  or  three  times  a day  to  inflamed  wounds. 

12.  Green  Salve  or  Ointment  for  Ulcers  and  Old  Sores. — Melt  together 
an  ounce  each  of  rosin  and  beeswax,  stir  in  4 ounces  of  either  lard  or  mutton 
tallow,  take  from  the  stove  and  add  1 dram  of  pulverized  verdigris  and  stir 
until  cold.  Cleanse  the  parts  twice  a day  with  pure  castile  soap  and  apply 
the  salve.  If  there  is  any  proud  flesh,  sprinkle  on  a little  pulverized  burnt 
alum  before  applying  the  salve. 

13.  Black  Healing  Salve. — Put  1%  pounds  of  olive  oil  into  a kettle  and 
bring  to  a boil ; stir  in  po  pound  of  powdered  red  lead  and  continue  stirring 
until  it  is  of  a deep  brown  color;  then  remove  from  the  Are  and  stir  in  2 
ounces  of  finely  shaved  beeswax,  2 ounces  of  unsalted  butter,  4 ounces  of 
white  turpentine,  6 ounces  of  honey  and  lastly,  4 ounces  of  powdered  gum 
camphor.  Spread  on  a cloth  and  apply.  This  is  excellent  for  ulcers,  wounds, 
burns  and  inflammations. 

14.  Green  Mountain  Salve,  also  White  Salve. — These  salves  are  excellent 
for  rheumatism  and  weak  back,  bruises,  cuts  and  corns.  Take  5 pounds  of 
rosin ; % pound  each  of  beeswax,  mutton  tallow  and  burgundy  pitch ; 1 ounce 
each  of  balsam  of  fir,  oil  of  hemlock,  oil  of  red  cedar,  Venice  turpentine  and  oil 
of  origanum  ; % ounce  oil  of  wormwood  and  1 ounce  of  finely  pulverized  verdi- 
gris. Melt  the  rosin,  beeswax,  tallow  and  pitch  together;  then  add  the  other 
articles,  having  previously  rubbed  the  verdigris  into  a little  of  the  oils.  Stir 
well,  pour  into  cold  water  and  work  as  wax.  When  cool  enough,  roll  and  cut 
into  sticks.  This  is  the  Green  Mountain  Salve  and  is  unequalled  for  rheuma- 
tism and  weak  back,  shoulders  or  side  and  has  cured  corns.  A plaster  on  the 
stomach  will  relieve  dyspepsia.  It  is  applied  by  spreading  on  cloths  or  thin 
leather.  The  White  Salve  is  the  same  only  the  verdigris  is  left  out.  The 
White  Salve  is  used  where  the  skin  is  broken  as  in  ulcers,  bruises  and  cuts. 
By  dividing  the  batch,  both  kinds  may  be  made  at  the  same  time.  This  is 
a grand  salve  and  if  you  once  have  it  in  the  home  you  will  never  be  without 
it.  Put  a piece  in  your  grip  when  you  travel  and  it  will  often  come  in  handy. 

15.  Spice  Piaster. — Take  an  ounce  each  of  powdered  ginger,  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  black  pepper  and  a dram  of  pulverized  cayenne;  mix,  and  add  a 
fluid  ounce  of  tincture  of  ginger  and  enough  honey  to  make  a thick  paste. 
When  applied  over  the  stomach  this  is  excellent  for  sickness  at  the  stomach 
and  vomiting. 


OINTMENTS. 

1.  Simple  Ointment. — Mix  2 ounces  of  sulphur  with  ^/2  pound  of  melted 
lard  and  stir  until  cold.  This  is  one  of  the  finest  ointments  made  for  piles, 
tetter,  salt  rheum,  itch  and  skin  diseases  in  general. 


282 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


2.  Trask’s  Ointment. — Mix  thoroughly  equal  parts  of  lard,  chopped 
raisins  and  fine  cut  tobacco.  This  is  one  of  the  best  pile  remedies  known. 

3.  Sweet  Clover  Ointment. — Stew  some  sweet  clover  in  lard  and  add 
equal  parts  of  beeswax  and  white  pine  turpentine  until  it  forms  an  ointment 
of  the  proper  consistency.  A fine  ointment  for  general  purposes. 

4.  Wood  Soot  Ointment. — Mix  an  ounce  of  finely  pulverized  wood- 
soot  with  four  ounces  of  lard.  Spread  on  cotton  batting  and  apply  to  burns, 
scald-head  and  other  skin  diseases. 

5.  Catarrh  Ointment. — Simmer  together  % ounce  of  pure  tar  and  2 
ounces  of  fresh  unsalted  butter.  Apply  inside  the  nostrils  4 or  5 times  a day. 

6.  Magnetic  Ointment. — Take  1/2  pint  of  oil  of  butter  and  % ounce 
each  of  oil  of  bergamot  and  oil  of  origanum.  This  is  fine  for  bruises,  fresh 
cuts,  burns  and  for  softening  and  healing  old  sores. 

7.  Ointment  for  Tumors,  Caked  Breasts  and  Bruises. — Take  half  a 
pound  of  fresh  tops  and  flowers  of  St.  John’s  root  and  the  same  quantity  of 
green  stramonium  leaves;  bruise  both  together;  mix  with  one  pound  of  lard 
and  gently  heat  for  an  hour. 

8.  Pile  Ointment. — Rub  2 drams  of  sulphur  and  4 drams  of  lard  to- 
gether between  2 pieces  of  lead  until  well  blackened.  This  is  a great  remedy 
for  blind  or  bleeding  piles. 

9.  Tetter  Ointment. — Take  fresh  butter,  4 ounces;  Venice  turpentine, 
1 ounce ; red  precipitate,  1 ounce ; melt  the  butter  and  turpentine  together 
and  while  warm  stir  in  the  precipitate  and  mix  well.  Rub  on  a little  once  or 
twice  a day.  An  excellent  ointment  for  tetter,  ringworm,  and  eruptions  of 
the  skin. 

10.  Ringworm  Ointment. — Mix  1 part  of  citrine  ointment  with  7 parts 
of  vaseline  and  rub  upon  the  skin  twice  a day.  This  is  good  for  the  itch  as 
well  as  ringworm. 

11.  Ointment  for  Itch  and  Ringworm. — With  1 ounce  of  benzoated 
lard  mix  1 dram  of  sulphur  and  1 dram  of  tar  ointment.  Rub  into  the  skin  3 
times  a day  until  well  absorbed. 

12.  Zinc  Ointment. — Mix  2 drams  of  oxide  of  zinc,  5 drams  of  lanolin, 
1 dram  of  albolene  and  10  grains  of  salicylic  acid. 

13.  Tar  Ointment. — Melt  a pound  of  suet,  add  the  same  amount  of  tar 
and  stir  continually  until  cold.  This  is  a fine  application  for  scabby  erup- 
tions such  as  scald-head,  etc. 

14.  Ointment  for  Itching. — Powder  20  grains  of  gum  camphor  with  a 
few  drops  of  alcohol  and  mix  with  an  ounce  of  oxide  of  zinc  ointment  and  then 
rub  in  12  grains  of  red  precipitate. 

15.  Spanish  Fly  Ointment. — Take  a small  quantity  of  vaseline  and  rub 
into  it  as  much  tincture  of  cantharides  as  it  will  take  up.  Bathe  the  feet, 
wipe  dry,  and  apply  at  bed  time  to  cure  chilblains.  Do  not  apply  so  fre- 
quently or  thoroughly  as  to  cause  blistering. 

16.  Herb  and  Turpentine  Ointment. — Bruise  1 ounce  each  of  worm- 
wood, horehound,  double  tansy,  catnip  and  hops  and  cover  with  lard  and 
spirits.  Let  stand  for  two  weeks,  simmer  and  strain.  To  each  ounce  of  the 
ointment  add  an  ounce  of  turpentine. 

17.  Carbolic  Ointment. — Work  thoroughly  10  drops  of  carbolic  acid  into 
an  ounce  of  vaseline.  Fine  for  burns  and  scalds. 

18.  Elder  Flower  Ointment. — Cover  elder  flowers  with  lard  which  has 


LINIMENTS,  OILS,  SALVES,  ETC. 


283 


been  warmed  just  enough  to  melt  it.  Steep  for  10  or  12  hours,  always  keeping 
the  lard  just  warm  enough  to  be  melted.  After  the  steeping,  strain  the  mix- 
ture through  linen  without  squeezing.  When  cold  the  ointment  will  be  found 
excellent  for  burns,  scalds  and  erysipelas.  Ointment  may  be  made  in  this 
manner  from  any  kind  of  flowers. 

19.  Spermaceti  Ointment. — Melt  over  a slow  fire  1%  ounces  of  olive  oil, 
3 dram  of  spermaceti  and  1 dram  of  white  wax;  stir  until  cold.  This 
will  not  keep  long  so  it  is  not  well  to  make  it  in  large  quantities.  It  is  used 
for  blisters,  chaps  and  chafed  places. 

20.  Ointment  for  Chilblains  and  Frostbites. — To  2 pounds  of  lard  add 
% pound  each  of  fresh  leaves  of  henbane,  stramonium  and  bitter  sweet  and 
% pound  of  elder  bark.  Simmer  together  for  2 hours  and  strain. 

21.  Ointment  for  Shingles  and  Skin  Diseases. — Boil  swamp  sassafras 
and  yellow  dock  roots,  an  ounce  of  each,  to  a strong  decoction  and  add  a 
pound  of  lard  and  simmer  to  an  ointment. 

22.  Ointment  for  Piles  and  Skin  Diseases. — Cover  2 ounces  of  fine  cut 
tobacco  with  spirits  and  add  % pound  of  lard  and  simmer  over  a slow  fire 
until  the  tobacco  is  a little  crisp  and  then  strain.  This  ointment  is  especially 
valuable  for  piles. 

23.  Ointment  for  Itch,  Scrofulous  Ulcers  and  Scald-Head. — Boil  2 ounces 
of  yellow  dock,  2 ounces  of  wood  soot  and  % ounce  of  good  tobacco  in  a 
gallon  of  water  until  it  has  evaporated  to  half  a gallon ; then  strain  and  boil 
down  to  1 pint  and  add  2 ounces  each  of  tar  and  unsalted  butter  and  simmer 
slowly  until  there  is  but  % of  a pint  and  then  add  1 ounce  of  spirits  of 
camphor  and  stir  until  cold. 

POULTICES. 

Poultices  should  be  applied  soft  and  moist  but  not  thin  enough  to  run 
over  the  surrounding  parts.  They  are  usually  applied  warm  and  renewed 
before  they  become  dry  or  cool.  Various  poultices  are  used  for  the  purpose  of 
scattering  tumors,  stimulating,  checking  mortification,  lessening  inflammation, 
hastening  the  formation  of  pus  or  drawing  poison  from  wounds. 

1.  Soothing  Poultices. — Poultices  of  bread  and  milk,  flaxseed,  corn 
meal  or  slippery  elm  are  used  where  a soothing  effect  is  desired  as  they  re- 
tain heat  and  moisture  a long  time.  The  bread  and  milk  and  flaxseed  poul- 
tices are  best  for  boils,  felons  and  abscesses  when  they  are  forming.  After 
the  matter  begins  to  discharge  the  slippery  elm  poultice  should  be  used. 
Slippery  elm  is  also  best  for  deep  ulcers  and  carbuncles. 

2.  Stimulating  Poultices. — Mustard  poultices  are  stimulating  as  also 
are  carrot  poultices.  Boil  two  or  three  garden  carrots  until  soft  and  mix 
with  a small  quantity  of  flour  or  powdered  elm  bark.  This  poultice  is  useful 
for  old  ulcers  and  painful  tumors. 

3.  Charcoal  Poultice. — Let  an  ounce  of  bread  stand  in  5 ounces  of  hot 
water  for  10  minutes  near  the  fire  and  then  add  5 drams  of  powdered  flaxseed 
and  2 drams  of  finely  powdered  charcoal,  thus  forming  a soft  poultice.  This 
will  be  found  excellent  for  ulcers  and  old  sores. 

4.  Slippery  Elm  Poultice. — Take  the  desired  quantity  of  powdered  elm 
bark  and  add  enough  hot  water  or  milk  to  form  a soft  poultice.  This  is  valu- 
able when  a soothing  or  softening  effect  is  desired. 

5.  Lobelia  Poultice. — To  equal  quantities  of  lobelia  and  powdered  elm 


284 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL ‘BOOK. 


bark  add  enough  hot  weak  lye  water  to  make  a poultice.  This  has  fine  draw- 
ing power  and  is  excellent  for  boils,  felons,  stings,  wounds,  fistula,  white 
swelling,  painful  swellings,  inflammation  of  the  breasts  and  various  other 
inflammations. 

C).  Poke  Root  Poultice. — Roast  some  poke  root  in  hot  ashes  until  soft, 
then  wash  it  and  make  a poultice  with  hot  water.  This  is  good  for  scattering 
boils,  tumors,  felons  and  caked  breasts. 

7.  Yeast  Poultice. — Poultices  made  of  yeast  are  excellent  for  ulcers 
that  slough  and  have  an  offensive  odor. 

8.  Corn  Meal  Poultice. — This  poultice  is  made  by  cooking  corn  meal 
in  hot  water  until  it  sticks  together.  Apply  to  the  seat  of  the  pain  as  hot 
as  it  can  be  borne. 

9.  Mullein  Poultice. — Boil  mullein  leaves  in  water  and  with  this  make 
a thin  mush  with  corn  meal  and  add  just  a little  vinegar. 

10.  Cranberry  Poultice. — Bruise  the  desired  quantity  of  cranberries  and 
apply  to  the  throat  for  quinsy  and  to  swollen  glands  in  scarlet  fever  and 
other  diseases.  Also  fine  for  erysipelas.  It  gives  relief  in  a few  hours. 

11.  Thorn  Apple  Poultice. — Bruise  the  desired  quantity  of  leaves  and 
moisten  with  water ; apply  to  the  abdomen  for  peritonitis  and  to  the  crotch  for 
enlarged  prostate  gland  and  for  passing  the  catheter  to  draw  the  urine  in  the 
male.  This  poultice  should  remain  on  the  parts  for  about  an  hour. 

12.  Poultice  for  Offensive  Ulcers. — Soak  2 ounces  of  bread  in  10  ounces 
of  water  and  gradually  mix  with  it  10  drams  of  powdered  flaxseed  to  make  a 
soft  poultice  and  then  add  2 drams  of  powdered  charcoal  and  when  the  poul- 
tice is  prepared  sprinkle  another  dram  of  powdered  charcoal  over  the  surface 
of  it  before  applying. 

13.  Flaxseed  Poultice. — While  water  is  boiling  add  flaxseed  to  it  very 
slowly  until  it  becomes  as  thick  as  porridge.  Continue  the  heat  with  con- 
stant stirring  for  10  minutes,  then  spread  on  cotton  and  cover  with  gauze  or 
cheese  cloth  which  makes  the  covering  next  to  the  skin.  Cover  the  whole 
with  silk  or  flannel  to  retain  the  heat  and  if  necessary,  bandage  snugly  to 
keep  it  from  slipping.  Renew  when  cool. 

14.  Bran  Poultice. — When  a light  but  thick  poultice  is  required,  bran 
should  be  boiled  in  water  and  placed  in  a bag  and  tied  tightly.  Press  out  the 
surplus  water  and  apply  to  the  parts.  Cover  well  as  it  cools  quickly. 

15.  Hop  Poultice. — Use  hops  instead  of  bran  and  make  and  apply  in  the 
same  way. 

16.  Spice  Poultice. — Mix  equal  parts  of  ground  cinnamon,  cloves,  all- 
spice and  ginger  and  if  you  wish  to  have  it  very  strong  you  can  add  i/4  part 
of  cayenne  pepper.  Place  this  in  a flannel  bag  and  spread  evenly  and  wet 
with  alcohol  or  whiskey  before  applying.  This  will  last  for  a long  time  by  re- 
wetting. It  is  fine  for  pains  in  the  abdomen. 

FOMENTATIONS. 

The  object  of  fomentations  is  to  reduce  swelling  and  inflammation.  They 
are  used  either  warm  or  cold.  Some  medicine  is  added  to  water  or  some 
herb  is  steeped  in  water  and  cloths  are  then  wrung  out  of  it  and  applied.  Or, 
herbs  are  steeped,  put  into  a bag,  and  applied  hot.  Cloths  wrung  out  of  hot 
or  cold  water  either  clear  or  medicated  are  sometimes  called  compresses. 
In  adding  tinctures  to  water  for  this  purpose,  from  10  to  20  drops  of  the  tinc- 
ture is  usually  added  to  half  a pint  of  water.  Compresses  or  fomentations 


LINIMENTS,  OILS,  SALVES,  ETC. 


285 


should  be  changed  frequently  to  keep  them  either  hot  or  cold  as  desired. 
Cover  them  with  dry  cloths  to  keep  the  water  from  running  upon  other  parts. 

1.  Arnica. — Put  from  10  to  20  drops  of  tincture  of  arnica  into  half  a 
pint  of  water  and  use  for  sprains  and  bruises. 

2.  Calendula. — Put  10  or  20  drops  of  tincture  of  calendula  into  half 
a pint  of  water  and  use  for  cuts. 

3.  Urtica  Urens. — Put  from  10  to  20  drops  of  tincture  of  urtica  urens 
into  half  a pint  of  water  and  use  for  either  scalds  or  bruises. 

4.  Hops. — Hop  fomentations  are  made  by  dipping  sacks  of  hops  into 
hot  water  and  applying  to  the  parts.  Cover  with  dry  cloths  to  hold  the  heat. 
Other  fomentations  are  made  by  adding  equal  parts  of  wormwood  and  tansy 
or  lobelia  and  stramonium  leaves  to  the  hops  and  applying  in  the  same  way. 

5.  Mullein. — Fomentations  of  mullein  leaves  are  excellent  for  bruises 
and  swellings. 

6.  Turpentine  Stupe. — Sprinkle  a few  drops  of  turpentine  on  a flannel 
cloth  which  has  first  been  wrung  out  of  hot  water.  Apply  this  as  hot  as  pos- 
sible and  cover  well  with  oiled  silk  and  dry  flannels.  Change  often  to  keep 
it  warm.  Turpentine  should  not  be  applied  after  the  skin  is  reddened. 

POWDERS. 

When  a single  ingredient  is  pulverized  it  is  called  a simple  powder  and 
when  two  or  more  ingredients  are  pulverized  and  mixed  together  it  is  called 
a compound  powder.  Powders  should  be  kept  in  air  tight  bottles  or  cans 
and  some  of  them  need  to  be  protected  from  the  light.  This  can  be  done  by 
painting  the  bottle  black.  There  are  many  different  kinds  of  powders  and 
you  will  find  many  of  them  described  in  the  treatment  of  various  diseases 
and  in  the  preparation  of  the  herbs. 

1.  Compound  Powder  of  Rhubarb. — Mix  thoroughly  2 ounces  of  pow- 
dered rhubarb,  a pound  of  magnesia  and  an  ounce  of  pulverized  ginger.  Keep 
in  air  tight  bottles.  This  is  a standard  remedy  used  by  physicians  for  bowel 
complaints  of  children.  The  rhubarb  moves  the  irritating  material  from 
the  bowels  and  the  ginger  stimulates  the  membrane  to  action. 


PATENT  MEDICINES. 


VALUABLE  PRESCRIPTIONS  FOR  MAKING  SECRET 
PREPARATIONS. 


In  the  preparation  of  this  department  we  are  indebted  to  the  Secretary 
of  the  American  Medical  Association  for  references  to  the  Leading  Medical 
Journals  of  the  world  who  have  had  these  medicines  chemically  analyzed. 
Patent  medicine  manufacturers  sometimes  change  their  formulas  slightly 
so  as  to  avoid  having  them  become  public,  so  all  we  can  claim  is  that  these 
prescriptions  will  make  preparations  which  are  similar  to  the  originals  in 
their  action  and  uses.  We  have  tried  to  give  only  the  most  valuable  ones 
and  though  Dr.  Ritter  did  not  compile  this  department  we  have  employed 
one  of  the  best  analytical  chemists  in  the  country  to  carefully  go  over  the 
prescriptions  with  the  view  of  eliminating  the  harmful  ones  and  adding  the 
uses  and  doses  of  each  as  otherwise  the  prescriptions  would  be  of  little  value. 


AYER’S  SARSAPARILLA. 


Fluid  extract  sarsaparilla  3 oz. 

Fluid  extract  stillingia  3 oz. 

Fluid  extract  may  apple  2 oz. 

Fluid  extract  yellow  dock  2 oz. 

Sugar  1 oz. 

Iodide  potassium  90  grs. 

Iodide  iron  10  grs. 


Used  for  so-called  diseases  of  the  blood,  pimples,  blotches,  etc.  Dose  for  adults 
— one  teaspoonful  three  times  a day. 

AYER’S  CHERRY  PECTORAL. 


Tincture  of  blood  root 2 dr. 

Acetate  of  morphia  3 gr. 

Wine  antimony  3 dr. 

Wine  ipecac  3 dr. 

Syrup  wild  cherry  3 oz. 


Used  for  bronchitis,  coughs,  colds  and  irritation  of  the  throat.  Dose  for  adults — 
one  teaspoonful  every  four  hours. 

AYER’S  HAIR  VIGOR. 


Acetate  of  lead 1%  oz. 

Precipitated  sulphur  1 oz. 

Glycerine 7 oz. 

Water 40  oz. 


Add  a few  drops  of  any  perfume.  Shake  well  before  applying.  Apply  once  a 
day  until  color  of  hair  deepens,  then  once  a week. 

ANTI-FAT. 

Anti-fat  is  prepared  from  fresh  bladder  wrack.  It  is  the  fluid  extract 
of  this  plant,  15  pounds  of  which  is  used  in  making  80  oz.  of  the  extract, 
with  proof  spirit  as  the  menstruum. 

2dt) 


PATENT  MEDICINES. 


387 


ASEPTIN. 

Alum  1 oz. 

Borax 2 oz. 

These  should  be  powdered  and  mixed  thoroughly  together.  This  is  a preserva- 
tive for  meat,  milk,  etc. 

ARABIAN  BALSAM. 

Oleum  terebinth 4 dr. 

Oleum  origani  1 oz. 

Oleum  gossypium 15  oz. 

Mix  together;  four  or  five  drops. 

ALLEN’S  LUNG  BALSAM. 

Tinct.  lobelia  4 oz. 

Tirict.  sanguinaria  4 oz. 

Tinct.  opium  2 oz. 

Tinct.  capsicum  % oz. 

Essence  anise  ^ oz. 

Essence  sassafras  14  oz. 

New  Orleans  molasses  '. 1 qt. 

Slowly  add  the  other  ingredients  to  the  boiling  molasses. 

When  cold  add  enough  water  to  make  three  pints.  Used  for  bronchitis,  coughs, 
colds  and  inflammation  of  the  air  passages.  Dose  for  adults — one  teaspoonful  every 
four  hours. 

BARKER’S  BONE  AND  NERVE  LINIMENT. 

Camphor  70  gr. 

Oil  of  turpentine  2 fl  dr. 

Oil  of  thyme  1 fl.  dr. 

Oil  of  tar  14  fl.  dr. 

Franklin  oil  (lubricating  oil,  black  oil),  enough  to  make  2 fl.  oz. 

For  rheumatism,  chilblains,  bruises  and  sprains. 

BEECHAM’S  PILLS. 

Sulphate  of  sodium  12  gr. 

Saffron  12  gr. 

Rhubarb  45  gr. 

Aloes  240  gr. 

Mix  and  make  into  pills  containing  3 grains  each. 

Used  as  a tonic  laxative  in  constipation,  biliousness,  etc.  For  adults,  take  one 
to  three  at  bed  time  in  a glass  of  water. 

BRITISH  OIL. 

Petroleum  2 oz. 

Oil  juniper  2 dr. 

Oil  turpentine  2 dr. 

Oil  amber 8 oz. 

Linseed  oil  24  oz. 

Mix  thoroughly.  Useful  for  kidney,  bladder  and  urinary  troubles,  etc.  Dose — 
three  to  five  drops. 

BARREL’S  INDIAN  LINIMENT. 

Tincture  capsicum  2 dr. 

Oil  sassafras  1 oz. 

Oil  origanum  1 oz. 

Oil  pennyroyal  1 oz. 

Oil  hemlock  1 oz. 

Alcohol  ; 2 qts. 

Mix  thoroughly.  Used  for  sprains,  rheumatism,  sciatica,  lumbago,  etc. 


288 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


BAY  RUM. 

French  proof  spirit  1 qt. 

Extract  of  bay  (soluble)  12  dr. 

Does  not-  need  filtering.  Color  with  caramel. 

A delightful  dressing  for  the  hair. 

BIG  G ” INJECTION. 

Zinc  acetate  15  gr. 

Berberine  hydrochlorate  15  gr. 

Glycerine  4 dr. 

Water,  sufficient  to  make  8 oz. 

Used  for  gonorrhea,  leucorrhea  (whites),  cystitis,  etc.  Use  as  an  injection  three 
times  a day. 

BUCKLEN’S  ARNICA  SALVE. 

Extract  arnica  1 oz. 

Vaseline  2 oz. 

Resin  cerate  8 oz. 

Raisins,  seedless  8 oz. 

Tobacco,  fine  cut  % oz. 

Water  a sufficient  quantity. 

Put  the  tobacco  and  raisins  into  a pint  of  water  and  boil  until  the  strength  is 
extracted ; express  the  liquid  and  evaporate  to  four  ounces.  Mix  the  liquid  with  the 
arnica  which  has  been  softened  with  a little  hot  water;  add  this  to  the  vaseline  and 
resin  cerate  which  have  been  previously  warmed  and  mix  well. 

BROWN’S  BRONCHIAL  TROCHES. 

Extract  of  licorice,  powdered  2 lb. 

Sugar,  powdered  3 lb. 

Gum  arabic,  powdered  % lb. 

Cubebs,  powdered V2  lb. 

Extract  conium  2 oz. 

Mix  all  together,  moisten  carefully  -with  water  to  make  a stiff  dough,  roll  out 
in  a thin  sheet  with  a rolling  pin  and  cut  into  small  squares  or  ovals.  Excellent 
troches  for  tickling  in  the  throat,  coughs,  colds,  etc. 

BOSCHEE’S  GERMAN  SYRUP. 

Carbonate  of  magnesia  3 dr. 

Oil  of  tar  1 fl.  dr. 

Fluid  extract  wild  cherry 6 fl.  dr. 

Fluid  extract  ipecac 4 fl.  dr. 

Tincture  of  opium  4 fl.  dr. 

Water  6 fl.  oz. 

White  sugar 10  oz. 

First,  triturate  the  magnesia  with  the  oil  of  tar;  then  with  a mixture  of  the 
water  and  fluid  extracts;  filter  and  without  heat  form  a solution  with  the  sugar  by  agi- 
tation. 

An  excellent  remedy  for  bronchitis,  coughs,  colds  and  inflammation  of  the  air 
passages.  Dose  for  adults — one  teaspoonful  every  three  hours. 

CARTER’S  LITTLE  LIVER  PILLS. 

Podophyllin  3 gr. 

Aloes  (Socotrine)  7 

Mucilage  of  acacia sufficient  quantity. 

Mix,  and  divide  into  24  pills. 

Used  for  headache,  biliousness,  constipation,  etc.  Take  from  one  to  four  pills  at 
bed  time  with  a glass  of  water. 


PA-1'RKT  iMEDlClXES. 


CASTORIA. 


Senna  8 dr, 

Rochelle  salts  2 oz. 

Manna  2 oz. 

Bruised  fennel  3 dr. 

Boiling  water 16  fl.  oz. 

Sugar  16  oz. 

Oil  of  wintergreen  to  flavor. 


Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  ingredients,  cover  and  allow  them  to  macerate 
until  cool;  strain  and  add  the  sugar  and  after  dissolving  by  agitation  add  enough  oil  of 
wintergreen  to  flavor. 

A safe  and  good  remedy  for  constipation,  biliousness,  headache,  indigestion,  etc. 
Dose — one  to  four  teaspoonfuls. 

CHAMBERLAIN’S  COLIC,  CHOLERA,  AND  DIARRHEA 

REMEDY. 


Tincture  guaiacum  12  fl.  dr. 

Tincture  camphor  16  fl.  dr. 

Tincture  capsicum  20  fl.  dr. 


The  dose  is  from  one  to  fifteen  drops  on  a lump  of  sugar  every  one-half  to  two 
hours  until  relief  is  obtained. 

CHAMBERLAIN’S  RELIEF. 


Tincture  capsicum  1 oz. 

Tincture  guaiac  % oz. 

Spirits  of  camphor % oz. 

Color  tincture,  to  make  2 oz. 


The  dose  is  from  five  to  fifteen  drops  on  a lump  of  sugar  every  one-half  to  two 
hours  until  relief  is  obtained. 

CUTICURA  OINTMENT. 

The  base  is  petroleum  jelly.  Nine  drops  of  carbolic  acid  are  added  to 
this  and  the  whole  is  colored  green  and  perfumed  with  oil  of  bergamot. 

CUTICURA  RESOLVENT. 


Aloes,  Socot 1 dr. 

Iodide  potass 36  gr. 

Powdered  rhubarb  1 dr. 

Whiskey  1 pt. 


Allow  these  to  macerate  over  night  and  then  filter. 

A tonic  alterative  in  so-called  diseases  of  the  blood,  pimples,  ulcers,  etc.  The 
dose  is  a dessert  spoonful  two  or  three  times  a day. 


COKE  DANDRUFF  CURE. 


Resorcin  4 dr. 

Alcohol  4 oz. 

Water  4 oz. 


Mix  all  together  and  add  a few  drops  of  perfume  or  bay  rum.  This  may  be 
colored  if  desired.  An  application  should  be  made  two  or  three  times  a week.  Rub 
lightly  into  the  scalp  and  continue  the  rubbing  for  some  time. 


CAMPHOR  ICE. 

Gum  camphor  IVj  oz. 

Spermaceti  3 oz. 

Oil  of  sweet  almonds  4 teaspoonfuls. 

Heat  this  in  an  earthen  vessel  just  enough  to  dissolve.  Pour  into  moulds  and 
wrap  With  tinfoil.  Used  for  chapped  hands  and  lips. 

19 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


ELY’S  CREAM  BALM. 

Vaseline 1 qz. 

Carb.  bismuth  15  gr. 

Thymol  3 gr. 

Oil  wintergreen 2 minims. 

Mix  thoroughly.  Used  for  catarrh.  Dip  the  finger  into  the  ointment,  insert  up 
the  nostrils  and  give  two  or  three  inhalations. 

EGYPTIAN  EYE  SALVE. 

White  Rosin  6 dr. 

Beeswax  30  gr. 

Burgundy  pitch  30  gr. 

Mutton  tallow  30  gr. 

Balsam  fir  30  gr. 

Venice  turpentine  30  gr. 

Melt  together  with  gentle  heat  and  stir  until  cold.  Spread  on  a cloth  and  apply 
to  the  parts. 

ESPEY’S  CREAM. 

Boric  Acid 4 gr. 

Cydonium  1V2  dr. 

Glycerine  2 oz. 

Carbolic  acid  10  gr. 

Alcohol  .* 3 02. 

Cologne  water  ^ 3 dr. 

Rose  water  sufficient  to  make  1 pt. 

Dissolve  the  boric  acid  in  four  ounces  of  rose  water,  add  the  cydonium  and 
allow  it  to  macerate  in  the  solution  for  three  hours,  press  through  cloth  and  then  add 
the  glycerine,  alcohol,  cologne  and  enough  rose  water  to  make  a pint.  Add  the  carbolic 
acid  and  shake  well. 

FROSTILLA. 

Quince  seeds  30  gr. 

Hot  water lOM*  oz. 

Glycerine  3 oz. 

Deodorized  alcohol  2V2  oz. 

Put  the  seeds  into  a bottle,  pour  the  hot  water  over  them  and  shake  occasionally 
until  a mucilage  is  formed,  then  strain  through  muslin.  Add  the  glycerine  and  shake 
well.  Dissolve  any  desired  perfume  in  the  alcohol  and  add  to  the  mucilage  and  shake 
briskly  until  the  solution  is  of  a uniform  consistency. 

GARGLING  OIL. 

Crude  petroleum  QVq  fl.  oz. 

Soft  soap 8 fl.  oz. 

Ammonia  water  3 fl.  oz. 

Benzine  8 fl.  oz. 

Crude  oil^  amber  1 fl.  oz. 

Tincture  iodine  Mi  fl.  oz. 

Water  2M2  pts. 

First,  mix  the  petroleum  and  soap  and  then  add  the  ammonia  water,  oil  of  amber 
and  tincture  of  iodine,  and  mix  well.  Then  add  the  benzine  and  lastly  the  water. 

An  excellent  liniment  for  sprains,  strains,  rheumatism,  sciatica,  etc. 

GENUINE  WHITE  OIL  LINIMENT. 

Ammonia  carbonate  19  parts. 

Camphor  20  parts. 

Oil  origanum  20  parts. 

Oil  turpentine  21  parts. 

Castile  Soap  19  parts. 

Water sufficient  to  make  300  parts  (by  weight). 


PATENT  MEDICINES. 


GILES’S  IODIDE  OF  AMMONIA  LINIMENT. 

Iodine  1 dr. 

Camphor  1 oz. 

Oil  of  lavender  OZ. 

Oil  of  rosemary  V2  QZ. 

Aqua  ammonia  4 oz. 

Alcohol  I qt. 

First,  dissolve  the  iodine  in  the  alcohol;  add  the  camphor  and  then  the  oils  and 
then  add  enough  water  of  ammonia  to  remove  the  dark  color  from  the  mixture. 

GOMBAULT’S  CAUSTIC  BALSAM. 

Cotton-seed  oil  2 fl.  oz, 

Croton  oil  4 fl.  dr. 

Oil  of  camphor  1 fl.  dr. 

Oil  of  thyme  % fl.  dr. 

Oil  of  turpentine  2 fl.  dr, 

Kerosene  4 fl.  dr. 

Sulphuric  acid  20  minims. 

Mix  the  cotton-seed  and  croton  oils  and  add  the  sulphuric  acid,  stirring  continually, 
then  add  the  other  ingredients.  After  standing  a few  days  this  closely  resembles  the 
original  preparation. 

An  excellent  preparation  for  spavins,  ringbones,  sprains  and  swellings. 

GOOD  SAMARITAN  LINIMENT. 

Oil  of  hemlock  fl,  oz. 

Oil  of  sassafras  V2  fl.  oz. 

Spirits  of  turpentine  V2  fl.  oz. 

Tincture  of  opium  V2  fl.  oz. 

Tincture  of  capsicum  % fl.  oz. 

Tincture  of  myrrh  2 fl.  oz. 

Oil  of  origanum 1 fl.  oz. 

Oil  of  wintergreen  2 fl.  dr. 

Gum  camphor  1 oz.  (troy) 

Chloroform  % fl.  oz. 

Alcohol  2 pts, 

GREEN  MOUNTAIN  SALVE. 

Resin 5 Ib. 

Beeswax  % lb. 

Burgundy  pitch  ^ lb. 

Mutton  tallow  ^/4  lb. 

Oil  of  hemlock  1 oz. 

Balsam  fir 1 oz. 

Oil  of  red  cedar  1 oz. 

Oil  origanum  1 oz. 

Venice  turpentine  1 oz. 

Oil  of  wormwood V2  oz. 

Powdered  verdigris  1 oz. 

Melt  together  the  resin,  beeswax,  pitch  and  tallow  and  then  add  the  oils;  having 
rubbed  up  the  verdigris  with  a little  oil,  add  it  to  the  other  articles,  stirring  well;  then 
put  the  whole  into  cold  water  and  work  until  cold  enough  to  roll  into  sticks. 

GREAT  LONDON  LINIMENT. 

Acetate  of  morphia  10  gr. 

Olive  oil  1 oz. 

Chloroform  1 oz. 

Water  of  ammonia  1 oz. 

This  is  used  where  there  is  great  pain.  It  should  be  used  with  caution. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


GREENE’S  NERVURA. 


Tinct.  of  cinchona  5.oz. 

Tinct.  of  damiana  5 oz. 

Tinct.  of  coca  5 oz. 


Make  the  tincture  of  damiana  by  taking  five  ounces  of  the  leaves  and  a pint  of 
diluted  alcohol.  Put  into  a -wide  mouthed  bottle,  place  in  a water  bath  and  boil  for 
half  an  hour.  Filter  and  to  the  filtered  product  add  enough  diluted  alcohol  to  make 
a pint.  Prepare  the  tincture  of  coca  in  the  same  way. 

A good  nerve  tonic.  Dose  for  adults — one  teaspoonful  three  times  a day. 

GREEN’S  AUGUST  FLOWER. 


Golden  seal  90  gr. 

Rhubarb  360  gr. 

Cape  aloes  16  gr. 

Carb.  of  potash  120  gr. 

Peppermint  leaves  120  gr. 

Capsicum 5 gr. 

Sugar  5 oz. 

Water 10  oz. 

Alcohol  3 oz. 

Essence  of  peppermint 20  minims. 


The  drugs  should  be  powdered  and  macerated  with  the  mixed  water  and  alcohol 
for  seven  days.  Filter  and  add  enough  diluted  alcohol  to  make  the  filtered  product 
measure  one  pint. 

An  excellent  remedy  for  sour  stomach,  indigestion,  flatulence,  biliousness,  head- 
ache and  other  troubles  arising  from  a disordered  stomach.  Dose — one  teaspoonful 
three  times  a day. 

GOLD  CURE  FOR  DRUNKENNESS. 

We  give  two  systems — The  Wherrell  Treatment  and  The  Keeley  Cure. 


The  Wherrell  Treatment. — 

Tincture  of  quassia  1 oz. 

Compound  tincture  of  cinchona  1 oz. 

Tincture  of  hydrastis  1 oz. 

Mix  and  take  a teaspoonful  in  water  every  three  hours. 

The  Keeley  Cure. — 

Tincture  of  gentian 1 oz. 

Tincture  of  cinchona  1 oz. 

Tincture  of  columbo  1 oz. 

Salicin  1 dram. 


The  salicin  should  be  dissolved  in  two  ounces  of  boiling  water  and  added  to  the 
tinctures.  Take  a teaspoonful  every  two  hours  for  four  or  five  weeks. 

HALL’S  CATARRH  CURE. 


Gentian  root  in  coarse  powder iM  oz. 

Cardamon  seeds  in  coarse  powder  100  gr. 

Bitter  orange  peel  in  coarse  powder  5 dr. 

Potassium  iodide  1 oz. 

Dilute  alcohol : sufficient  quantity. 


Macerate  the  crude  drugs  in  12  ounces  of  dilute  alcohol  for  48  hours,  then  put 
into  a percolator  and  allow  to  percolate  slowly.  When  the  liquid  has  stopped  perco- 
lating, pass  enough  menstruum  through  the  percolator  so  that  the  finished  product 
measures  a pint.  In  this  dissolve  the  potassium  iodide. 

The  dose  is  a dessert  spoonful  three  times  a day  after  meals. 

HAMBURG  TEA. 

Coriander  1 part. 

Manna 3 parts. 

Senna  8 parts. 

Used  for  constipation,  headache,  biliousness,  etc.  Mix  a teaspoonful  with  a cup 
of  boiling  water  and  allow  to  cool  before  drinking. 


PATENT  MEDICINES. 


2^3 


HALL’S  HAIR  RENEWER. 


Lead  acetate  % dr. 

Precipitated  sulphur  V2  dr. 

Salt  1 dr. 

Glycerine  . 4 fl.  oz. 

Jamaica  rum  2 fl.  oz. 

Bay  rum  1 fl-  oz. 

Water  8 fl-  oz. 


Mix  thoroughly.  Shake  well  before  using  and  rub  into  the  roots  of  the  hair  once 
a day  until  the  hair  darkens  and  then  once  a week. 


HAMLIN’S  WIZARD  OIL. 


Alcohol  1 pt. 

Gum  camphor  1 oz. 

Tincture  myrrh % oz. 

Tincture  capsicum  oz. 

Oil  sassafras  % oz. 

Chloroform  V?.  oz. 


An  excellent  liniment. 


HARLEM  OIL. 

Flowers  of  sulphur  2 ounces. 

Linseed  oil  1 lb. 

Oil  of  amber  2 oz. 

Oil  of  turpentine  sufficient  quantity. 

Boil  the  linseed  oil  and  sulphur  gently  until  the  sulphur  is  dissolved;  then  take 
from  the  fire,  and  when  somewhat  cooled,  add  the  oil  of  amber  and  enough  oil  of  tur- 
pentine to  make  the  mixture  of  the  consistency  of  molasses. 

Used  for  kidney,  urinary  and  bladder  troubles  and  for  backache,  rheumatism,  etc. 
The  dose  is  from  five  to  fifteen  drops  on  sugar,  three  times  a day. 


HOSTETTER’S  BITTERS. 

Calamus  root  1 lb. 

Sugar  1 lb. 

Orange  peel  1 lb. 

Gentian  root  1 lb. 

Peruvian  bark  1 lb. 

Columbo  root  1 lb. 

Rhubarb  4 oz. 

Cinnamon  2 oz. 

Cloves  1 oz. 

Diluted  alcohol  enough  to  make  2 gal. 

Grind  all  the  solids  together  to  a coarse  powder,  macerate  in  one  gallon  of  the 
alcohol,  pack  in  percolator  and  add  enough  dilute  alcohol  to  make  two  gallons.  The 
dose  is  from  one  to  two  tablespoonfuls  before  meals. 


HUNYADI  JANOS  WATER. 


Sulphate  of  lime % oz. 

Epsom  salts  13  oz. 

Glauber  salts  12  oz. 

Sulphate  of  potassa  % dr. 

Water  5 gal. 


Mix  the  above  ingredients  together  and  charge  with  gas. 


HANSON’S  MAGIC  CORN  CURE. 


Simple  cerate 1 oz. 

Salicylic  acid  1 dr. 


Mix  thoroughly. 

Apply  to  corn,  covering  with  a piece  of  muslin. 


294  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 

HOLLOWAY’S  OINTMENT. 

White  wax  10  parts. 

Yellow  wax  10  parts. 

Turpentine  25  parts. 

Lard  50  parts. 

Sweet  oil  75  parts. 

Melt  all  together  with  gentle  heat  and  stir  until  cold.  An  excellent  family  salve 
for  sores  of  all  kinds. 

HOP  BITTERS. 

Tinct.  hops  oz. 

Tinct.  senega  3 dr. 

Tinct.  buchu  3 dr. 

Tinct.  cochineal  20  drops. 

Podophyllin  (dissolved  in  spirits  of  wine)  10  gr. 

Distilled  water  to  make  1 pint. 

Dose—- One  teaspoonful  three  times  a day  before  meals. 

JAYNE’S  EXPECTORANT. 

Syrup  squills  2 oz. 

Tinct.  tolu  iY2  oz. 

Tinct.  digitalis  1 dr. 

Tinct.  camphor  1 dr. 

Tinct.  opium  ^ 2 dr. 

Wine  ipecac  2 dr. 

Antimon.  and  pot.  tart  2 gr. 

Used  for  coughs,  colds,  bronchitis  and  inflammation  of  the  air  passages.  Dose 
for  adults — one  teaspoonful  every  three  hours, 

KENDALL’S  SPAVIN  CURE. 

Alcohol  2 fl.  oz. 

Turpentine ’ 1 fl.  oz. 

Camphor  240  gr. 

Petroleum  oil  (heavy)  V-i  fl.  dr. 

Iodine 25  gr. 

Oil  of  rosemary  1 fl.  dr. 

Di.ssolve  the  camphor  and  the  iodine  in  the  mixed  oils  without  filtering. 

KOHLER’S  ONE  NIGHT  CORN  CURE. 

This  is  said  to  consist  of  suet  containing  25  per  cent,  of  salicylic  acid. 

KEELEY  CURE. 

(See  “ Gold  Cure/^ 

KING’S  NEW  DISCOVERY. 

Carbonate  of  magnesia  % oz. 

Sugar  14  oz. 

Tinct.  white  pine 2 oz. 

Fl.  ex.  ipecac  Vi  dr. 

Water  7 oz. 

Sulph.  morphia  8 gr. 

Chloroform  60  drops. 

Rub  the  magnesia  in  a mortar  with  one  ounce  of  sugar,  and  triturate  with  the 
fluid  extract  of  ipecac  and  the  tinct.  of  white  pine;  gradually  add  the  water  and  trit- 
urate with  the  mixture  in  the  water.  Filter  and  dissolve  the  sulph.  morphia  in  the 
filtrate;  mix  the  chloroform  with  the  rest  of  the  sugar  in  a bottle  and  add  the  liquid 
above.  Keep  tightly  corked. 

Used  for  coughs,  colds,  bronchitis  and  inflammation  of  the  air  passages.  Dose 
for  adults — one  teaspoonful  every  four  hours. 


PATENT  MEDICINES. 


295 


KENNEDY’S  MEDICAL  DISCOVERY.  ^ 

Take — 

Sneezewort  V2  oz. 

Bitter-root  2 dr. 

Mix  and  add — 

Boiling  water 4 fl.  oz. 

Proof  spirits  5 fl.  oz. 

Licorice  root  2 dr. 

Macerate  for  48  hours  and  add — 

White  sugar  2 oz. 

Tinct.  gaultheria  V2  oz. 

A general  family  medicine.  The  dose  is  a teaspoonful  four  times  a day. 

KICKAPOO  INDIAN  OIL. 

Camphor  V2  oz.  (troy) 

Oil  turpentine  1 fl.  dr. 

Oil  wintergreen  V2  fl.  dr. 

Oil  peppermint  V2  fl.  dr, 

Tinct,  capsicum  V2  fl.  oz. 

Alcohol,  sufficient  to* make  1 pt. 

An  excellent  liniment  for  rheumatism,  pains  in  the  back  or  chest,  etc. 

LINIMENT  FOR  MAN  AND  BEAST. 

Powdered  aloes  1 oz. 

Powdered  myrrh  1 oz. 

Balsam  fir  1 oz.  (troy) 

Alcohol  8 fl.  oz. 

The  dose  is  from  ten  to  twenty  drops  on  sugar,  three  times  a day. 

LYON’S  KATHAIRON. 

Tinct.  cantharides  1 fl.  dr. 

Castor  oil  ^ 1 fl.  oz. 

Stronger  water  of  ammonia  1 drop. 

Oil  of  bergamot  20  minims. 

Alcohol,  sufficient  to  make  3 fl.  Oz. 

Brush  vigorously  into  the  scalp. 

LAXATIVE  BROMO-QUININE  TABLETS. 

Podophyllin  1/9  gr. 

Aloin  1/9  gr. 

Sodium  bicarbonate  1 gr. 

Quinine  sulphate  1 gr. 

Acetanilide  2 gr. 

Used  for  chills,  colds,  coughs,  grippe,  etc.  The  dose  is  two  tablets  every  two 

hours  until  the  bowels  move  freely  and  then  one  three  times  a day. 

LYDIA  PINKHAM’S  VEGETABLE  COMPOUND. 

Partridge-berry  vine  1 lb. 

Cramp  bark  1 lb. 

Poplar  bark  V2  lb. 

Cassia  % lb. 

Unicorn  root  % lb. 

Beth  root  6 oz. 

Sugar  6 lb. 

Alcohol  Ml  gal. 

Water,  a sufficient  quantity. 

Reduce  the  first  six  ingredients  to  No.  40  powder,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let 

stand  until  cold,  and  percolate  with  water  until  2V2  gallons  of  liquid  are  obtained. 

To  this  liquor  add  the  sugar,  bring  to  a boil,  remove  from  the  fire,  strain  and  when 
cold  add  the  alcohol. 

Used  for  female  troubles.  The  dose  is  a teaspoonful  three  or  four  times  a day. 


296 


TJIE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


MADAM  RUPPERT’S  FACE  BLEACH. 


Corrosive  sublimate  1 gr. 

Tincture  of  benzoin  7 gr. 

Water  500  grs. 


Mix  and  apply  to  the  face  at  night  for  two  nights  and  then  once  a week. 


MICAJAH’S  MEDICATED  UTERINE  WAFERS. 


Mercury  bichloride  gr 

Bismuth  subnitrate  15  gr 

Zinc  sulphate  5 gr 

Acacia  5 gr 

Carbolic  acid  3 gr 


Water,  a sufficient  quantity. 

Use  enough  water  to  make  into  a mass.  Used  for  leucorrhea,  (whites),  gonor- 
rhea and  similiar  discharges. 

MAGNETIC  LINIMENT. 


Oil  of  origanum  1 oz. 

Tinct.  cantharides  2 dr. 

Muriate  ammonia  2 dr. 

Sulphuric  ether  1 oz. 

Alcohol  1 pt. 

This  is  a rubefacient  liniment  acting  as  a counter  irritant  in  inflammations. 

MALVINA  CREAM. 

Spermaceti  ' 30  gr. 

White  wax  50  gr. 

Saxoline  (petrolatum)  265  gr. 

Bismuth  oxychloride  . 40  gr. 

Mercuric  chloride  % gr. 

Spirit  of  rose  (4  drams  of  oil  to  1 pint)  20  minims. 

Oil  of  bitter  almonds  1 minim. 


Melt  the  white  wax,  saxoline,  and  spermaceti  together  and  while  cooling  incor- 
porate the  bismuth  oxychloride  and  the  mercuric  chloride,  the  latter  having  been  pre- 
viously dissolved  in  a little  alcohol  and,  when  nearly  cold,  stir  in  the  perfumes. 

A good  cosmetic  for  freckles,  sunburn,  tan,  etc. 

MALVINA  LOTION. 

Rose  water  1 pint. 

Oil  of  almonds  2 dr. 

Gum  arabic,  good  quality  (dissolved  in  a little  of  the  rose  water)  4 dr. 

Corrosive  sublimate  2 gr. 

Oxide  of  zinc  3 dr. 

Use  the  lotion  in  connection  with  the  Malvina  Cream.  For  freckles,  pimples, 
liver  mole,  moth  patches,  salt  rheum  and  ringworm. 


MEXICAN  MUSTANG  LINIMENT. 

Oil  of  thyme  ^ V2  dr. 

Oil  of  turpentine  V2  dr. 

Oil  of  amber,  crude  V2  dr. 

Kerosene  oil 3 dr. 

Black  oil  1 dr. 

Water  3 oz.  2 dr. 

Soap  35  gr. 

Caustic  potash  3 gr. 

“ The  soap  should  be  placed,  together  with  the  alkali,  in  a flask,  and  then  dissolved 
in  two  ounces  of  hot  water;  add  the  mixed  oils  in  very  small  quantities  at  a time,  with 
vigorous  shaking.  When  the  mixture  has  once  assumed  a creamy  consistency,  the  oils 
may  be  added  more  rapidly;  but  in  any  case,  reasonable  care  should  be  observed,  and 
this  is  true  in  adding  more  water,  which  should  be  quite  warm,  until  the  full  pint  is  made. 
If  the  oils  do  not  emulsify  readily,  it  is  necessary  to  begin  over  again,  as  either  too 
much  oil  was  added  at  first,  or  the  water  was  not  warm  enough.  Strict  attention  must 
be  paid  to  both  of  these  considerations  in  order  to  insure  success. 


PATENT  MEDICINES. 


297 


NERVE  AND  BONE  LINIMENT. 


Oil  of  rosemary 

Oil  of  origanum  

Oil  of  amber  

Oil  of  hemlock  

Turpentine  

Linseed  oil  

For  external  use  only. 
Should  be  thoroughly  mixed, 
ica,  lumbago,  etc. 


2 oz. 

2 oz. 

2 oz. 

2 oz. 

2 pts. 

3 pts. 

Rub  in  well  for  rheumatism,  gout,  chilblains. 


sciat- 


OIL  OF  JOY. 


Alcohol  4 pts. 

Gum  camphor  % oz. 

Oil  of  cedar  1 oz. 

Oil  of  sassafras  1 oz. 

Tinct.  guaiac  1 oz. 

Tinct.  capsicum  2 oz. 

Water  of  ammonia  4 oz. 

Chloroform  3 oz. 


Mix  well,  shake  before  using  and  apply  to  parts  affected  with  vigorous  rubbing. 
Used  for  sprains,  strains,  rheumatism  and  pains  in  the  back  and  chest. 

OIL  OF  GLADNESS. 


Oil  of  peppermint  ' 1 fl.  dr. 

Oil  of  horsemint  1 fl.  dr. 

Oil  of  marjoram  1 fl.  dr. 

Ether  2 fl.  dr. 

Tinct.  capsicum  4 fl.  dr. 

Tinct  of  red  sanders  1 fl.  dr. 

Tinct.  of  opium  1 fl.  dr. 

Alcohol,  sufffcient  to  make  8 fl.  oz. 


Mix  thoroughly.  Shake  before  using,  and  apply  to  the  affected  parts,  rubbing 
vigorously.  Used  for  rheumatism,  pains  in  chest  and  back,  sprains,  strains,  etc. 


ORANGE  BLOSSOM. 

The  constituents  of  this  vaginal  suppository  are: 


Alum  15  gr. 

Zinc  sulphate  1 dr. 

Cocoa  butter  3 dr. 

White  wax  % dr. 

Oil  sweet  almonds  dr. 

Ext.  henbane  1 gr. 


Grind  the  ingredients  well  together  in  a mortar  until  a pasty  mass  is  formed  and 
then  make  into  a vaginal  suppository.  Used  for  gonorrhea  and  leucorrhea. 


PETTIT’S  EYE  SALVE. 

Olive  oil  4 dr. 

White  wax  ¥2  dr. 

Spermaceti  1%  dr. 

Melt  together  and  add  gradually,  under  trituration  in  a warm  mortar,  to  the 
following  in  fine  powder,  and  mix  thoroughly: 

Oxide  zinc  30  gr. 

White  precipitate  20  gr. 

Morphine  sulph % gr. 

Acid  benzoic  2 gr., 

Oil  rosemary  % gr. 

Finally  stir  until  cool,  and  keep  in  a well  covered  vessel. 

Used  for  granulated  eyelids,  inflammation  of  the  lids,  etc.  Apply  to  the  eyelids 
before  retiring. 


298  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 

PERUNA. 

Cubebs  1 dr. 

Copaiba  3 dr. 

Calisaya  bark,  ground  1 oz. 

Turkey  corn,  ground  1 oz. 

Stone  root,  ground  1 oz. 

Deodorized  alcohol  ^ pt. 

Water  1 pint. 

Add  all  the  ingredients  to  the  alcohol  and  let  stand  for  a week,  shaking  the 
bottle  frequently,  and  finally  filter  through  filter  paper  or  strain  through  several  thick- 
nesses of  muslin.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

PINK  PILLS  FOR  PALE  PEOPLE. 

Pure  sulphate  of  iron  V2  oz. 

Sugar  24  gr. 

Tragacanth,  in  fine  powder  8 gr. 

Carbonate  of  potash  7*0  gr. 

Glycerine  5 drops. 

Water  sufficient  to  make  a mass. 

Mix  well  and  rnake  into  75  pills  and  coat  with  colored  sugar. 

Used  for  anemia,  lassitude,  lack  of  interest  in  life,  sallowness  or  paleness,  etCo 
The  dose  for  adults  is  one  or  two  pills  three  times  a day. 

PERRY  DAVIS’S  PAIN  KILLER. 

Capsicum  10  oz. 

Gum  myrrh  2^  lb. 

Gum  benzoin  6 oz. 

Gum  opium  8 oz. 

Gum  camphor  10  oz. 

Gum  guaiac  3 oz. 

Alcohol  5 gal. 

This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  diarrhea,  colic,  wind  in  the  bowels,  pains  in  the 
stomach,  etc.  The  dose  for  adults  is  from  fifteen  to  thirty  drops. 

PAGE’S  LIQUID  GLUE. 

Acetic  acid  10  parts. 

Best  carpenter’s  glue 120  parts. 

Water  130  parts. 

Alum  1 part. 

Digest  in  water  until  dissolved  and  when  cold  add 
Alcohol  30  parts. 

PIERCE’S  FAVORITE  PRESCRIPTION. 

Cinchona  150  gr. 

Savin  150  gr. 

Agaric  76  gr. 

Cinnamon  75  gr. 

Water,  enough  to  make  a decoction  of .8  fl.  oz. 

Add-- 

Acacia  160  gr. 

Sugar  75  gr. 

Tinct.  digitalis  V2  fl.  dr. 

Opium  % fl.  dr. 

Oil  anise  8 drops. 

Dissolve  the  gum  and  sugar  in  the  strained  decoction  and  add  two  fluid  ounces 
of  alcohol  in  which  the  oil  has  previously  been  dissolved. 

Used  for  chronic  weakness  and  other  complaints  of  females.  The  dose  is  a tea- 
spoonful three  times  a day. 


PATENT  MEDICINES.  399 

PISO’S  CURE  FOR  CONSUMPTION. 

Tine,  tolii  % oz. 

FI.  ext.  cannabis  indica  2 dr. 

FI.  ext.  lobelia  2 dr. 

Chloroform  1 dr. 

Tartar  emetic 4 gr. 

Sulph.  morphia  4 gr. 

Ess.  mentha  viridis  10  drops. 

Water  8 oz. 

Sugar  14  oz. 

Mix  the  fluid  extracts,  chloroform,  tinct.  of  tolu  and  essence  of  spearmint,  and 
shake  in  a bottle  with  the  sugar.  Dissolve  the  morphine  and  tartar  emetic  in  hot  water, 
then  add  the  water  to  the  sugar  in  a bottle. 

Dose. — A teaspoonful. 

Used  for  coughs,  colds,  grippe,  asthma,  bronchitis  and  irritation  of  the  air 
passages. 

PAINE’S  CELERY  COMPOUND. 

Celery  seed  2 oz. 

Red  cinchona 1 oz. 

Lemon  peel  : % oz. 

Orange  peel  % oz. 

Coriander  seed  % oz. 

Hydrochloric  arid  15  minims. 

Glycerine  3 fl.  oz. 

Alcohol  5 fl.  oz. 

Water  4 fl.  oz. 

Syrup  4 fl.  oz. 

Grind  the  solids  to  No.  40  powder,  mix  the  water  and  acid,  add  the  alcohol  and 
glycerine,  and  in  the  menstruum  so  prepared  macerate  the  powder  for  twenty-four 
hours;  then  percolate,  adding  enough  water  and  alcohol  in  the  proportion  given  to 
make  12  fluid  ounces.  Finally  add  the  syrup  and,  if  necessary,  filter. 

An  excellent  tonic  and  stomachic  useful  in  indigestion.  The  dose  for  adults  is  a 
teaspoonful  three  times  a day. 

RADWAY’S  READY  RELIEF. 

Soap  liniment  3 oz. 

Water  of  ammonia  1 oz. 

Tinct.  capsicum 1 oz. 

Alcohol  1 oz. 

This  should  be  thoroughly  mixed  and  rubbed  well  into  the  affected  parts.  It  is  a 
counter  irritant. 

RADWAY’S  PILLS. 

Aloes - 4 parts. 

Ginger 2 parts. 

Jalap  2 parts. 

Myrrh  2 parts. 

Make  into  a mass  with  mucilage  and  divide  into  2-grain  pills. 

Used  for  biliousness,  constipation  and  disordered  stomach.  The  dose  for  adults 
is  from  one  to  three  pills  at  bed  time. 

ROYAL  CATARRH  CURE. 

Common  salt  98  parts. 

Carbolic  acid  1.35  parts. 

Muriate  of  berberine 65  parts 

Total  parts  by  weight  100  parts. 

Mix  together  A teaspoonful  is  to  be  dissolved  in  a glass  of  water  three  or  four 
tim«s  a day  and  used  by  douching  or  snuffing  up  the  nose. 


300  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 

SEJDLITZ  POWDERS. 

Bicarbonate  of  soda 2 scruples. 

Rochelle  salts  2 drams. 

Tartaric  acid  35  grains. 

Mix  the  soda  and  salts  together  and  put  in  a blue  paper  and  put  the  tartaric  acid 
in  a white  paper.  Put  the  contents  of  the  blue  paper  into  half  a glass  of  water  and 
then  add  the  contents  of  the  white  paper  and  drink  at  once  while  it  is  effervescing.  If 
desired,  a little  loaf  sugar  may  be  added. 

This  is  a cooling  laxative  and  useful  in  fevers. 

SEVEN  BARKS. 

Extract  of  poke  root  12  lb. 

Extract  of  hydrangea  1 lb. 

Extract  of  Culver’s  root  12  lb. 

Extract  of  lady’s  slipper  12  lb. 

Extract  of  dandelion  12  lb. 

Extract  of  colocynth  12  lb. 

Extract  of  blue  flag  6 lb. 

Extract  of  bloodroot  6 lb. 

Extract  of  stoneroot 6%  lb. 

Extract  of  golden  seal  7 lb. 

Extract  of  mandrake  24  lb. 

Extract  of  black  cohosh  24  lb. 

Extract  of  butternut  48  lb. 

Spirits  of  sea  salt 14%  lb. 

Aloes  10  lb. 

Infusion  of  capsicum 4%  lb. 

Borate  of  sodium  15  lb. 

Powdered  sassafras  11  lb. 

Ginger  6 lb. 

Sugar-house  syrup  40  gal. 

Water,  enough  to  make  98  gal. 

This  is  a good  liver  and  stomach  tonic.  The  dose  is  a dessert  spoonful  before 

meals. 

SHILOH^S  CONSUMPTION  CURE. 

Muriatic  acid  3 minims. 

Muriate  of  morphine  3 gr. 

FI.  ext.  of  ginger  3 fl.  dr. 

FI.  ext,  wild  cherry  3 fl.  dr, 

Fl.  ext.  henbane  2 fl.  dr. 

Diluted  alcohol 3 fl.  dr. 

Chloroform  1 fl.  dr. 

Essence  peppermint  30  minims. 

Syrup  of  tar  3 fl.  oz. 

Simple  syrup,  sufficient  to  make 8 fl.  oz. 

Used  for  colds,  coughs,  bronchitis,  asthma  and  irritation  of  the  throat.  The 
dose  for  adults  is  a teaspoonful. 

‘‘  SUN  ” CHOLERA  CURE. 

Tinct.  of  opium  1 oz. 

Tinct.  of  capsicum  1 oz. 

Powdered  rhubarb 1 oz. 

Essence  of  peppermint 1 oz. 

Spirits  of  camphor  1 oz. 

The  dose  is  from  15  to  30  drops  in  a wine-glassful  of  water. 

Used  for  colic,  diarrhea  and  pain  in  the  stomach  and  bowels. 

SKINNER’S  DANDRUFF  MIXTURE. 

Chloral  hydrate 1 oz. 

Glycerine 4 oz. 

Bay  rum  ,••••. 

Apply  to  the  scalp  once  a day,  rubbing  in  thoroughly. 


PA'l'ENT  MEDICINES.  301 

SAGERS  CATARRH  REMEDY. 

Powdered  Hydrastis  canadensis  1 oz. 

Powdered  borax 10  gr. 

Salt  10  gr. 

Ferro-cyanuret  of  iron enough  to  color. 

Mix  thoroughly.  A teaspoonful  is  to  be  stirred  into  a glass  of  water  and  used 
three  or  four  times  a day  by  douching  ©r  snuffing  up  the  nose. 

SEVEN  SUTHERLAND  SISTERS’  HAIR  GROWER. 

Dist.  ext.  of  witch-hazel 9 fl.  oz. 

Stearns’s  bay  rum 7 fl.  oz. 

Common  salt  1 dr. 

Hydrochloric  acid  (5  per  cent.)  1 drop. 

Magnesia  sufficient. 

Mix  the  distilled  extract  of  witch-hazel  and  bay  rum,  and  shake  with  a little 
magnesia;  filter  and  in  the  filtrate  dissolve  the  salt  and  add  the  hydrochloric  acid.  The 
agitation  with  magnesia  causes  the  preparation  to  assume  a yellow  color  but  by  rend- 
ering it  very  slightly  acid,  with  the  drop  of  hydrochloric  acid  of  the  strength  given,  this 
color  disappears. 

Rub  well  into  the  roots  of  the  hair  and  brush  vigorously. 

ST.  JACOB’S  OIL. 

Chloral  hydrate 1 oz. 

Gum  camphor  1 oz. 

Sulph.  ether  1 oz. 

Chloroform  1 oz. 

Tinct.  opium  % oz. 

Oil  sassafras  V2  oz. 

Oil  origanum V2  oz. 

Alcohol  ¥2  gal. 

An  excellent  liniment  for  strains  and  pains.  Rub  well  into  the  affected  parts  and 
cover  with  a piece  of  linen. 

ST.  JOHN’S  LINIMENT. 

Sweet  oil 3 oz. 

Turpentine  7 oz. 

Tinct.  arnica 4 oz. 

Oil  hemlock 1 oz. 

Oil  origanum  1 oz. 

Oil  juniper  1 oz. 

Oil  amber 2 oz. 

Laudanum 2 oz. 

Spirits  ammonia  ¥2  oz. 

Camphor  •.••••; ^ 

Mix  and  shake  well  before  using.  Used  for  rheumatic  pains,  neuralgia,  lumbago 
and  sciatica. 

SYRUP  OF  FIGS. 

Coriander  seed  6 oz. 

Senna  leaves  14  oz. 

Figs  24  oz. 

Cassia  pulp 18  oz. 

Tamarind  18  oz. 

Prunes  12  oz. 

Ext.  licorice  l¥2  oz. 

Ess.  peppermint  1%  oz. 

Simple  Syrup  1 gal. 

Make  a water  extract  of  the  drugs  so  as  to  measure  about  four  pints,  and  in  this 
dissolve  eight  pounds  of  sugar  to  make  the  syrup. 

Used  for  constipation,  sour  stomach,  bilious  headache,  etc.  The  dose  for  adults 
is  from  one  to  two  teaspoonfuls  every  three  hours  until  the  bowels  move. 


308 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


SMITH  BROS.  COUGH  DROPS. 

Average  weight  of  each  drop  about  36.5  gr. 

Sugar  (and  small  quantity  of  glucose)  35.5  gr. 

Powdered  charcoal  80  gr. 

A small  quantity  of  licorice  is  added  and  they  are  flavored  with  oil  of  sassafras 
and  a little  oil  of  anise. 

SWIFT’S  SYPHILITIC  SPECIFIC. 

Old  man’s  gray-beard  root  (chionanthus  virginica)  1 bushel. 

Prickly-ash  root  16  oz. 

Red  sumac  root  8 oz. 

White  sumac  root  8 oz. 

Sarsaparilla  root 10  oz. 

Sulphate  of  copper  8 dr. 

“ Bruise  the  gray-beard  and  sumac  roots,  and  put  them  with  the  sarsaparilla  into 
an  iron  pot  sufficient  to  hold  eight  gallons  of  water,  or  cover  the  roots  completely 
with  the  water.  Cover  the  pot  with  pine  tops,  and  boil  slowly  until  the  liquid  assumes 
the  color  of  ink.  Strain  while  warm,  add  the  sulphate  of  copper  and  good  Holland  gin 
sufflcient  to  prevent  fermentation. 

Dose. — One  wine-glassful  four  times  a day.  Strictly  abstain  from  horseback 
riding,  butter  or  very  greasy  food,  all  kinds  of  spirits  or  fermented  liquors.  Of  course 
the  chancre  must  be  treated  in  the  usual  manner. 

THOMPSON’S  EYE-WATER. 

Copper  sulphate 5 gr. 

Zinc  sulphate  20  gr. 

Tinct.  camphor  1 dr. 

Tinct.  saffron 2 dr. 

Rose  water 8 oz. 

Dist.  water 8 oz. 

Mix  and  filter. 

Used  for  irritated  or  inflamed  conditions  of  the  eyes  and  lids.  Drop  a few 
drops  into  the  eye. 

TRASK’S  MAGNETIC  OINTMENT. 

Lard  2 oz. 

Raisins  2 oz. 

Fine  cut  tobacco 2 oz. 

Simmer  together,  strain  and  press  out  all  from  the  drugs.  Used  for  skin  diseases 
such  as  tetter  and  salt  rheum. 

VAN  BUSKIRK’S  FRAGRANT  SOZODONT. 

Alcohol  1 02- 

Water  fl-  02- 

Soap  ■ 120  gr. 

Oil  of  wintergreen  2 minims. 

Red  Sanders  sufficient. 

“Dissolve  the  soap  in  the  mixture  of  alcohol  and  water;  add  the  color;  perfume 
with  oil  of  wintergreen;  add  enough  water  to  make  the  fluid  measure  three  ounces. 
The  following  is  suggested  as  a similar  article  to  the  Fragrant  Sozodont  Powder,  which 
accompanies  the  liquid:’’ 

Precipitated  chalk - 200  gr. 

Orris  root  125  gr. 

Infusorial  earth  40  gr. 

Perfume  lightly  with  oil  of  cloves. 


WHERRELL  TREATMENT. 

(See  “ Gold  Cure.”) 


PATENT  MEDICINES.  303 

WARNER’S  SAFE  CURE. 

Ext.  of  hepatica  (the  herb)  232  gr. 

Ext.  of  lycopus  virg,  (the  herb)  308  gr. 

Ext.  of  gaultheria  7^2  gr. 

Potassium  nitrate  39  gr. 

Alcohol  (90  deg.)  2%  oz. 

Glycerine  10  dr. 

Water,  sufficient  to  make  1 pint  . 

This  is  a stimulant  to  the  urinary  organs  and  is  used  for  kidney  and  bladder 
troubles.  The  dose  is  a dessert  spoonful  three  times  a day. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT 


Gathering  and  Drying  Herbs. — Roots  ought  to  be  dug  in  the  fall  after  the 
roots  and  leaves  are  dead  or  have  come  to  maturity;  or,  they  should  be  dug 
before  they  start  in  the  spring.  They  ought  to  be  washed  immediately  after 
they  are  dug,  or  not  washed  at  all.  Some  roots  are  injured  by  being  put  into 
water,  especially  those  of  an  aromatic  nature.  All  roots,  when  cleaned,  ought 
to  be  put  in  a place  where  they  will  dry  soon.  They  should  not  be  placed  in 
the  sun  but  in  a dry  apartment  where  they  will  be  placed  under  the  influence 
of  fire  heat,  as  on  an  upper  floor  while  fire  is  kept  below.  As  soon  as  they 
are  perfectly  dry  they  ought  to  be  packed  away  and  kept  from  the  air  as  much 
as  possible. 

HOW  HERBS  ARE  MADE  INTO  MEDICINES. 

Teas  or  Infusions. — These  are  made  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  the  plant 
or  bark  and  allowing  it  to  steep  for  a short  time  until  the  water  cools,  after 
which  the  liquid  is  strained.  Sometimes  cold  water  is  used.  Infusions  are 
made  by  steeping  like  tea.  The  infusion  is  generally  better  than  the  decoction 
as  boiling  destroys  the  virtue  of  some  herbs.  Usually,  from  1 to  4 ounces  of 
the  herb  should  be  used  to  a pint  of  boiling  water. 

Decoctions. — A decoction  is  a solution  made  by  boiling  the  herb  in  water 
and  straining  while  hot.  Decoctions  are  made  by  boiling  like  coffee. 

Cerates. — Cerates  are  ointments  containing  30  parts  of  beeswax  to  70  parts 
of  lanolin  or  some  other  substance  to  make  them  harder  for  use.  They  are 
used  for  piles,  etc.  Cerates  are  used  where  you  do  not  desire  a quick  dis- 
solving of  the  lanolin  or  other  base. 

Ointments. — Ointments  are  made  without  beeswax  and  are  softer  than 
cerates  and  are  good  for  local  application.  The  base  is  vaseline  or  cosmoline. 
They  are  made  with  some  kind  of  fatty  substance  like  vaseline  or  lanolin 
(sheep’s  oil).  The  medicine  is  rubbed  into  the  base.  Ointments  dissolve 
readily. 

Extracts. — Extracts  are  made  by  taking  the  soluble  parts  from  the  plant. 
This  is  done  by  allowing  them  to  stand  in  water  or  alcohol.  Extracts  consist 
of  the  soluble  parts  of  plants  reduced  to  a semi-solid  condition  by  evaporation. 

Fluid  Extracts. — These  are  made  in  the  same  way  as  solid  extracts 
except  that  they  are  not  so  completely  evaporated. 

Syrups. — These  are  solutions  of  sugar  in  water  or  sometimes  in  gummy 
sub’stances.  To  make  a syrup  of  plants,  add  simple  syrup  to  the  infusion  when 
hot  and  somewhat  evaporated  and  then  bottle  while' hot.  In  other  words,  first 
make  a tea  of  the  plant  and  then  add  sugar. 

Powders. — Barks  or  dried  herbs  are  finely  broken  up  or  pulverized  to 
make  powders. 

Tinctures. — Tinctures  are  solutions  of  the  medical  properties  of  herbs  in 
alcohol  or  in  mixtures  of  alcohol  and  water.  Take  the  fresh  or  dried  herb, 
chop  and  pound,  and  to  1 ounce  of  the  herb  add  .2  ounces  of  water  and  2 ounces 

304 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


305 


of  alcohol.  Allow  the  mixture  to  stand  in  a bottle  from  8 to  days  in  a cool 
place.  Then  turn  off  the  liquid  carefully  and  bottle  for  use 

Fomentations. — These  are  plants  applied  locally  in  ‘..lusion  or  decoction. 
Put  the  herbs  into  a bag  and  steep  and  then  wring  the  cag  out  of  the  liquid  and 
apply  hot.  This  will  hold  heat  longer  than  cloths.  Fomentations  are  bags  of 
herbs  wrung  out  of  hot  herb  teas  and  applied  to  the  afifected  parts. 

Liniments. — These  are  made  with  oily  substances  often  mixed  with  power- 
ful drugs. 

Suppositories. — These  are  small  masses  made  into  a cone  shape.  The 
medicine  is  usually  mixed  with  cocoa  butter  and  they  are  designed  for  use 
in  the  rectum  or  vagina. 


HERB  REMEDIES. 

Including  Many  Valuable  Indian  Remedies. 

ASPARAGUS. 

(Asparagus  Officinalis.) 

Action. — Diuretic,  Heart  Sedative. 

Uses. — Stone  or  Gravel  in  Kidneys  or  Bladder,  Dropsy. 

This  is  a common  garden  vegetable  and  may  be  used  either  as  a tea  or 
in  decoction  by  using  2 ounces  of  the  plant  to  a pint  of  water.  In  decoction 
it  is  used  freely  as  a diuretic.  Another  way  to  prepare  the  plant  is  to  crush 
and  strain  5 pounds  of  the  fresh  tops  in  water,  boil  the  juice  down  to  a pint 
and  add  a pint  of  rectified  spirits.  Take  from  to  1 teaspoonful  5 times  a 
day.  Asparagus  tea  is  good  for  dropsy  and  is  particularly  good  for  stone  or 
gravel  in  the  kidneys  or  bladder.  In  making  the  tea  keep  the  roots  in  hot 
water,  not  boiling,  for  several  hours  and  then  strain.  This  must  be  tak^n  for 
some  time  to  get  the  desired  results. 

ARNICA. 

Leopard’s  Bane — (Arnica  Montana). 

Action. — Internally  it  is  an  Emetic  and  Cathartic. 

Uses. — Bruises,  Strains,  Aches,  Muscular  Rheumatism. 

This  is  a horizontal,  woody,  blackish  root,  terminating  abruptly  at  the 
lower  end.  The  stem  rises  about  a foot  high  and  terminates  in  1,  2 or  3 upright 
peduncles,  each  bearing  one  very  large  flower  of  a deep  yellow  color  and  some- 
what mixed  with  brown.  The  flowers  are  disk  shaped  with  rays;  are  of  feeble 
aromatic  odor ; and  are  of  a bitter,  unpleasant  taste.  The  flowers  and  roots  are 
the  parts  used.  Grows  in  Europe  and  Siberia  and  in  the  West  and  North 
Western  United  States.  Can  be  bought  in  drug  stores.  It  is  used  exter- 
nally and  is  splendid  for  bruises,  strains,  aching  of  the  muscles  and  muscular 
rheumatism. 

It  is  used  in  infusion,  tincture  and  fluid  extract.  Wring  cloths  out  of 
hot  arnica  tea  and  apply  for  bruises  and  strains.  You  can  add  wormwood 
and  srnartweed  if  you  wish.  You  can  also  use  the  tincture  of  arnica  for 
rheumatism,  tired  muscles,  sprains  and  bruises.  Use  1 dram  to  a pint  of 
water.  The  following  are  good  prescriptions  in  which  arnica  is  used.  For 
boils  and  abscesses  use  1 ounce  each  of  either  fluid  extract  or  tincture  of  arnica, 


306 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


soap  lininieni  'nd  laudanum.  For  rheumatism,  sprains  and  painful  joints 
apply  locally  wh.  hot  equal  parts  of  fluid  extract  of  arnica  and  witch  hazel. 

To  make  the  or  infusion  of  arnica  use  a handful  of  the  flowers  or 
roots  to  a pint  of  bou  ng  water.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  5 to  10 
drops  and  is  usually  given  4 times  a day.  Five  drops  may  be  used  every  2 
or  3 hours. 


ARSE  SMART. 

Action. — Antiseptic,  Astringent. 

Uses. — Inflammations,  Cold  Swellings,  Bruises,  Gravel,  Obstructed  Urine, 
Coughs  and  Colds,  Worms. 

This  valuable  remedy  grows  everywhere  in  our  country  though  few  know 
its  value.  It  is  a powerful  antiseptic,  allays  inflammation  and  disperses  cold 
swellings,  particularly  such  as  affect  the  knee  joints.  It  dissolves  congealed 
blood  caused  by  bruises  and  blows.  For  this  purpose  it  should  be  applied  in 
strong  decoction  and  poultices.  It  is  also  good  for  gravel  and  obstruction  of 
the  urine  and  for  curing  coughs  and  colds.  It  is  also  good  for  worms.  The 
decoction  is  made  by  using  2 ounces  of  the  plant  to  a pint  of  boiling  water. 
The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces.  Make  the  decoction  strong  for  local  appli- 
cation. The  whole  plant  is  used. 


AVENS. 

Aven’s  Root — Chocolate  Root — Throat  Root — (Geum  Virginianum). 

Action. — Tonic,  Stomachic,  Astringent. 

Uses. — Bleeding,  Chronic  Diarrhea,  Wind  Colic,  Stomach  Affections, 
Asthma,  Leucorrhea,  Flooding,  Sore  Throat. 

Grows  about  2 feet  high  and  has  a perennial,  small,  brown,  contorted, 
horizontal  root.  The  stem  is  erect,  simple  or  branched,  and  has  but  few 
flowers.  The  flowers  are  quite  small,  white,  and  grow  on  the  ends  of  the 
stems.  The  fruit  is  a cluster  of  dry  berries  which  are  oval,  brown  and  smooth. 
This  plant  is  found  in  hedges  and  thickets  in  moist  places  in  most  parts 
of  the  United  States.  It  flowers  from  June  to  August.  It  has  long  been 
used  in  domestic  practice.  The  root  is  the  part  usually  used.  Tonic,  as- 
tringent, stomachic.  Used  for  passive  and  chronic  bleeding,  chronic  diarrhea, 
wind  colic,  stomach  affections,  asthmatic  symptoms  and  weakness,  leucorrhea, 
flooding  and  sore  throat.  Must  be  used  for  some  time  and  then  it  is  a good 
builder  and  tonic.  Make  the  decoction  by  using  an  ounce  of  the  root  to  a 
pint  of  water  and  take  1 or  2 ounces  or  more  4 times  a day.  The  dose  of  the 
powder  is  from  20  to  30  grains. 

ALMOND. 

(Amygdala.) 

Action. — Diuretic. 

Uses. — Coughs,  Hoarseness,  Scalding  of  Urine,  Kidney  Troubles,  To 
Whiten  and  Soften  the  Skin. 

The  oil  of  sweet  almonds  acts  beneficially  on  the  urinary  organs  and  is 
good  for  scalding  urine.  Also  good  for  hoarseness  and  tickling  coughs  and 
is  frequently  combined  with  other  ingredients  and  used  to  soften  and  whiten 
the  skin.  From  1 to  8 drams  is  the  dose  of  the  oil  of  sweet  almonds.  The 
oil  of  bitter  almonds  is  poisonous. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


307 


ARBOR  VIT^. 

Uses. — Coughs,  Rheumatism,  Fevers,  Ague,  Scurvy. 

This  evergreen  tree  grows  from  20  to  50  feet  high  and  the  branchlets  are 
flat  and  spreading.  Much  used  for  hedges.  Grows  along  banks  of  rivers  and 
in  low  swampy  places.  An  ointment  made  of  the  branchlets  and  cones  is  ex- 
cellent for  rheumatism.  Make  a poultice  by  powdering  the  cones  and  mixing 
with  milk  and  it  will  cure  the  worst  rheumatic  pains.  A decoction  made  of 
the  branchlets  or  roots  is  good  for  coughs,  ague,  fevers  and  scurvy. 

BALM  OF  GILEAD. 

Balsam  Poplar— (Populus  Balsamifera). 

Uses. — Cuts,  Wounds,  Coughs,  Debility. 

The  buds  of  this  tree  contain  medical  properties  and  should  be  gathered 
in  the  fall.  The  buds  are  filled  with  a rich  gum  which  is  good  for  coughs  and 
debility.  Add  1 pint  of  fourth  proof  spirits  to  an  ounce  of  the  bruised  buds. 
The  dose  of  this  is  from  a teaspoonful  to  a tablespoonful  in  sweetened  water 
3 or  4 times  a day.  This  tincture  is  also  fine  when  applied  to  cuts  and  wounds. 

BETH  ROOT. 

Indian  Balm — Birth  Root — Ground  Lily — Nodding  Wake-Robin — Three 
Leaved  Nightshade — Lamb’s  Quarter — (Trillium  Pendulum). 

Action. — Astringent,  Tonic,  Antiseptic. 

Uses. — Bleeding  from  Lungs,  Bloody  Urine,  Menorrhagia,  Leucorrhea, 
Asthma,  Difficult  Breathing,  Womb  Troubles,  Diarrhea,  Tumors,  Ulcers, 
Carbuncles,  Buboes,  Stings,  Gangrene. 

This  plant  has  an  oblong,  tuberous  root  from  which  arises  a slender  stem 
from  10  to  15  inches  high.  It  has  3 large  leaves  at  the  top  of  the  stem,  from 
between  which  appears  a solitary  flower,  bell  shaped  and  of  a purple  or  white 
color.  The  root  is  of  a brown  color  outside  and  white  within.  Common  in 
the  Middle  and  Western  States.  Grows  in  rich  soils  and  in  damp,  rocky  and 
shady  woods.  Flowers  in  May  and  June. 

In  its  action  it  is  astringent,  tonie  and  antiseptic.  It  has  been  used  very 
successfully  in  bleeding  from  the  lungs,  bloody  urine,  menorrhagia  or  uterine 
hemorrhage,  leucorrhea,  asthma  and  difficult  breathing.  The  Indian  women 
used  it  very  much  for  womb  troubles  and  in  confinement  to  aid  labor  and  for 
flooding.  Its  astringent  action  makes  it  good  for  hemorrhages.  Boiled  in 
milk,  it  is  good  for  diarrhea  and  dysentery  when  used  internally.  The  root 
may  be  made  into  a poultice  and  used  for  tumors,  indolent  and  offensive 
ulcers,  carbuncles,  buboes,  stings  of  insects  and  to  restrain  gangrene.  The 
dose  of  the  powdered  root  is  1 dram.  A strong  tea  or  infusion  is  made  by  add- 
ing from  1/2  to  1 ounce  to  a pint  of  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  3 ounces. 
The  tea  is  commonly  used.  This  tea  is  also  good  for  injections  into  the  vagina 
for  leucorrhea  and  flowing.  When  used  as  an  injection  the  infusion  may  be 
made  stronger  by  using  more  medicine  to  the  pint  of  water. 

BELLWORT. 

Mohawk  Weed — (Uvularia  Perfoliata). 

Action. — Tonic,  Mucilaginous,  Nervine. 

Uses. — Wounds,  Sores,  Sore  Mouth,  Snake  Bites,  Sore  Throat,  Inflam- 
mation of  Gums,  Ulcers,  Erysipelas,  Inflammation  of  the  Eyes,  Sore  Ears, 
Skin  Affections. 


308 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


.This  has  a creeping  rootstock  and  a stem  from  8 to  14  inches  high,  dividing 
at  the  top  into  two  branches.  Leaves  are  clasping,  elliptical,  rounded  at  the 
base,  acute  at  apex,  smooth,  light  gray  underneath,  from  2 to  3 inches  long 
and  Ys  inch  wide.  Flowers  are  solitary,  pale  yellow,  about  an  inch  long  apd 
hang  from  the  end  of  one  of  the  branches.  Bellwort  is  a smooth  handsome 
plant  common  in  the  LT.  S.  It  grows  in  moist  copses  and  woods  and  flowers 
in  May.  The  root  is  the  part  used  and  when  fresh  is  acrid  and  mucilaginous. 
It  imparts  its  properties  to  water. 

Its  action  is  tonic,  soothing  and  nervine.  It  was  used  by  the  Indians 
for  wounds,  sores  and  snake  bites.  Is  very  good  for  sore  mouth,  sore  throat 
and  inflammation  of  the  gums.  For  bites  of  poisonous  snakes  make  a decoc- 
tion by  boiling  the  root  in  milk  and  drink  of  this  freely  and  to  the  wound 
apply  a poultice  of  the  root.  The  poultice  is  also  good  for  general  ulcers  and 
wounds.  A poultice  of  the  green  root  or  the  dried  root  in  powder  and  mixed 
with  hot  new  milk  is  good  in  all  stages  of  erysipelas  and  also  for  acute  in- 
flammation of  the  eyes.  An  ointment  may  be  made  by  simmering  the  pow- 
dered root  and  green  tops  in  lard  for  an  hour  over  a slow  fire  and  should  be 
strained  by  pressing.  This  is  useful  for  skin  affections,  sore  ears,  sore  mouth, 
etc.,  of  children.  This  ointment  is  also  good  for  many  cases  of  erysipelas. 

BLUE  BELLS. 

Abscess  Root — Greek  Valerian — Sweat  Root — (Polemonium  Reptans). 

Action. — Diaphoretic. 

Uses. — Lung  Troubles,  Consumption,  Liver  Troubles,  Boils,  Scrofulous 
Complaints. 

The  roots  are  fibrous  and  grow  from  one  head.  The  flowers,  which  are 
small  and  blue,  appear  early  in  the  season  and  are  followed  by  small  seeds. 
Several  stems  sometimes  arise  from  the  same  root.  Grows  a foot  or  two  in 
height  and  is  found  in  damp  woods. 

The  Indians  used  it  to  produce  sweating  in  fevers  and  pleurisies.  It  is 
used  for  scrofulous  complaints,  consumption  and  affections  of  the  lungs  and 
liver.  The  decoction  is  made  by  adding  a small  handful  of  the  crushed  roots 
to  3 pints  of  water  and  steeping  down  to  half  that  quantity.  The  dose  is  half 
a teacupful  every  four  hours,  A tincture  may  be  made  in  whiskey.  Half  a 
wineglassful  taken  3 times  a day  will  clean  out  the  system  and  purify  the 
blood  and  is  good  for  one  afflicted  with  boils. 

BLUE  CARDINAL  FLOWER. 

Blue  Lobelia — (Lobelia  Syphilitica). 

Action. — Emetic,  Cathartic. 

Uses. — Blood  Diseases,  Kidney  Troubles,  Dropsy,  Gonorrhea,  Syphilis. 

Same  species  as  lobelia  inflata.  Grows  throughout  the  U.  S.  in  moist 
places.  Bears  a long  spiked  blue  flower  and  yields  a milky  juice  with  a rank 
odor.  Roots  have  white  fibres.  LFsed  by  Indians  for  blood  diseases,  etc. 
Also  acts  on  the  kidneys  and  produces  more  urine.  Good  for  dropsy  and 
gonorrhea.  The  root  is  the  part  used  and  the  dose  is  from  20  to  60  grains  of 
the  powdered  root  3 or  4 times  a day.  It  can  be  combined  in  infusion  with 
other  blood  remedies  such  as  prickly  ash,  stillingia,  red  clover  and  sarsaparilla, 
and  is  then  used  for  syphilis. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


309 


BLACK  SNAKE  ROOT. 

(Sanicula  Marilandica.) 

Action. — Nervine,  Tonic,  Astringent. 

Uses. — Rattle  Snake  Bites,  Intermittent  Fever,  Sore  Throat,  Hives,  Skin 
Diseases,  St.  Vitus’  Dance,  Diarrhea,  Leucorrhea,  Dysentery,  Gonorrhea. 

The  stem  is  from  1 to  3 feet  high.  Leaves  growing  at  the  top  of  the 
long  naked  stem  are  from  3 to  5,  parted  in  a whorl.  Several  stems  rise  from 
the  same  root.  The  flower  stem  rises  considerably  higher  than  the  leaf  stalks, 
with  2 or  3 small  leaflets  near  the  top.  There  are  not  many  flowers  and  they 
are  white  and  sometimes  yellowish.  The  plant  grows  along  roadsides  and 
thickets  and  flowers  in  June.  It  is  common  in  the  U.  S.  and  Canada. 

In  its  action  it  is  nervine,  tonic  and  astringent.  The  Indians  consider  it 
a sovereign  remedy  for  rattle  snake  bites.  Take  3 bunches  of  roots  and  boil 
them  in  a pint  of  "water  and  drink  in  divided  doses  at  intervals  of  20  or  30 
minutes.  At  the  same  time  prepare  a decoction  of  the  leaves  and  stems  and 
bathe  the  bitten  parts.  The  Indians  claimed  in  this  way  to  be  able  to  cure  this 
bite  even  if  it  happened  two  days  previously.  The  plant  is  also  good  for  in- 
termittent fever,  sore  throat,  hives  and  skin  diseases.  It  may  be  used  as  a 
tea  or  the  juice  of  the  root  may  be  swallowed.  It  is  also  good  for  St.  Vitus’ 
dance.  For  children  from  8 to  10  years  old  the  dose  of  the  powdered  root  is 
1/2  dram  3 times  a day.  The  decoction  is  good  for  diarrhea,  leucorrhea,  dysen- 
tery and  gonorrhea.  The  decoction  is  made  by  using  an  ounce  of  the  plant  to 
a pint  of  water  and  the  dose  of  this  is  from  2 to  4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

BALSAM  FIR. 

(Terebinthina  Canadensis.) 

Action. — Stimulant,  Diuretic,  Anthelmintic,  Laxative,  Antiseptic. 

Uses. — Typhoid  Fever,  Capillary  Bronchitis,  Liniments,  etc. 

This  tree  is  found  in  the  U.  S.  and  Canada.  From  this  tree  are  obtained 
resin  and  turpentine,  the  uses  of  which  are  commonly  known.  The  chief 
supply  comes  from  the  Carolinas.  Turpentine  is  sometimes  given  internally 
for  typhoid  fever  and  capillary  bronchitis.  It  is  an  effective  stimulant  and 
disinfectant.  It  is  given  in  the  form  of  emulsion  and  the  dose  is  from  10 
drops  to  2 teaspoonfuls.  The  too  liberal  use  of  turpentine  affects  the  kidneys. 

BASSWOOD. 

Linden  Tree — Lime  Tree — Tilia  Tree — (Tilia  Americana) — (Tilia  Glabia). 

Uses. — Vertigo,  Headache,  Spasmodic  Cough,  Epilepsy. 

This  is  a very  large  and  beautiful  forest  tree  with  broad  leaves  and 
yellowish-white  flowers.  The  wood  is  soft  and  whit^  and  when  dry  floats  on 
the  water  like  cork. 

Poultices  are  made  from  the  leaves  and  bark  and  a tea  is  made  of  the 
flowers  for  headache,  vertigo,  spasmodic  coughs,  epilepsy  and  other  com- 
plaints. This  tea  should  be  used  in  doses  according  to  its  effects. 

BEECH. 

Red  Beech — (Fagus  Ferruginea). 

Uses. — Incontinence,  Diabetes,  Ulcers,  Skin  Diseases,  Dyspeptic  Troubles. 

From  the  bark  of  this  tree  a decoction  may  be  made  for  use  in  cases 
of  incontinence  of  urine  in  children  at  night  and  for  diabetes.  A decoction 


310- 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


made  from  the  leaves  is  valuable  in  the  treatment  of  skin  diseases,  obstinate 
ulcers  and  dyspeptic  troubles  which  are  accompanied  with  low  spirits,  weak- 
ness and  headache. 


BROAD  LEAVED  DOCK. 

Bitter  Dock — Blunt-Leaved  Dock — (Rumex  Obtusifolius). 

Action. — Alterative,  Tonic. 

Uses. — Bilious  Diseases,  Blood  Diseases. 

In  growth  this  plant  is  similar  to  the  narrow-leaved  or  yellow  dock.  The 
leaves  are  broad  and  spring  from  the  stem  the  same  as  the  narrow-leaved 
kind.  The  root  is  brown  without  and  yellow  within  and  is  thick  and  branch- 
ing. It  grows  to  a height  of  about  two  feet  and  flowers  a month  later  than 
the  yellow'  dock.  It  is  used  for  the  same  complaints  as  is  the  yellow  dock. 

BLUE  VIOLET. 

(Viola  Cucullata.) 

Action. — Demulcent,  Expectorant,  Laxative. 

Uses. — Sore  Throat,  Constipation,  Coughs,  Eruptive  Diseases. 

This  plant  is  well  known,  having  blossoms  of  a blue-violet  color  and  a 
root  about  an  inch  long.  Grows  on  rich  moist  lands.  A decoction  made  of 
this  plant  is  valuable  in  the  treatment  of  eruptive  diseases  of  children  and  a 
syrup  made  of  the  petals  is  excellent  for  sore  throat,  coughs  and  constipation 
of  children. 

BUGLE  WEED. 

Water  Bugle — Gypsy  wort— Water  Horehound — (Lycopus  Virginicus). 

Uses. — Coughs,  Bleeding  from  Lungs,  First  Stages  of  Consumption,  Ill- 
conditioned  Sores. 

Grows  in  creeks,  swamps,  ditches,  etc.  The  leaves  grow  two  in  a place 
and  opposite  each  other  on  the  stem.  It  blossoms  from  July  to  September 
and  the  flowers  are  white.  A tea  made  from  the  stems  and  leaves  may  be 
drank  freely.  It  is  useful  in  the  first  stages  of  consumption,  bleeding  from 
the  lungs  and  coughs.  Persons  with  ill-conditioned  sores  should  drink  the 
tea  and  bathe  the  parts  with  it. 

BUTTERNUT. 

White  Walnut — (Juglans  Cineria). 

Action. — Cathartic. 

Uses. — Constipation. 

This  tree  is  common  in  the  United  States.  An  extract  should  be  made 
of  the  inner  bark  which  should  be  procured  in  May  or  June.  The  dose  is 
from  15  to  30  grains.  It  is  an  effective  cathartic  and  acts  without  causing 
heat  or  irritation  and  is  not  so  likely  to  leave  the  bowels  costive  as  many  other 
cathartics. 

BLACK  COHOSH. 

Squaw  Root — Black  Snake  Root — Rattleweed — Richw'^ed — (Cimici 

Racemosa). 

Action. — Tonic,  Anti-spasmodic. 

U5es. — Chorea,  Convulsions,  Epilepsy,  Nervous  Ex*  itement.  Asthma, 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


311 


Whooping  Cough,  Delirium  Tremens,  Spasmodic  Afflictions,  Female 
Troubles,  Coughs,  Rheumatism,  Neuralgia,  Scrofula,  Milk  Leg. 

This  is  a tall  stately  plant  with  a large  blackish,  perennial  root  having  nu- 
merous long  fibres.  It  has  a simple  smooth  stem  from  4 to  8 feet  high  and  has 
but  few  leaves.  The  flowers  are  small,  white  and  fetid  and  followed  by  shells 
producing  seeds.  The  fruit  is  ovoid,  dry,  and  with  one  cell.  The  smooth 
seeds  are  packed  horizontally  in  two  rows.  It  is  a native  of  the  United 
States  and  grows  from  Maine  to  Florida  in  shady  and  rocky  woods  and  on 
rich  grounds  and  hill  sides.  Flowers  in  June  and  July.  The  root  is  the  part 
generally  used  and  should  be  gathered  early  in  autumn  and  dried  in  the  shade. 

This  is  a very  active,  powerful  and  useful  remedy.  It  is  good  for  the 
nervous  system  as  in  chorea,  periodical  convulsions,  epilepsy,  nervous  ex- 
citement, asthma,  whooping  cough,  delirium  tremens  and  many  spasmodic 
afflictions.  For  these  troubles  the  powdered  root  should  be  taken  in  tea- 
spoonful doses  3 times  a day.  In  consumption,  coughs,  acute  rheumatism, 
neuralgia,  scrofula,  milk  leg,  amenorrhea,  dysmenorrhea,  leucorrhea  and 
other  womb  troubles  the  strong  tincture  is  better  than  the  powdered  form. 
The  Indian  women  used  this  plant  very  much  in  womb  troubles  for  labor. 
In  these  troubles  it  may  be  used  instead  of  ergot.  Give  % dram  of  the  pow- 
dered root  every  15  or  20  minutes  in  warm  water  until  expulsive  action  of  the 
womb  is  produced.  Or,  V2  dram  of  the  saturated  tincture  may  be  used  in 
the  same  way.  After  labor  it  is  good  for  after-pains  and  nervous  excitement. 
It  is  good  for  menstrual  troubles ; either  too  much  or  too  little  flow  and 
painful  menstruation.  This  medicine  may  be  used  as  a decoction,  tincture, 
fluid  extract  or  in  the  powdered  form.  The  tincture  and  fluid  extract  are 
the  best  forms.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  20  drops  and  of  the  fluid  extract, 
half  a dram.  For  whooping  cough  in  a child  a year  old  you  can  give  3 
drops  4 or  5 times  a day.  This  remedy  is  a grand  one  for  women  and  is 
excellent  for  rheumatism  and  headaches  caused  by  womb  troubles.  The  de- 
coction is  m^ade  by  using  an  ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  water  and  the 
dose  is  from  Vo  to  1%  ounces  3 or  4 times  a day  but  the  fluid  extract  or  tinc- 
ture is  better  and  can  be  bought  at  any  drug  store.  The  following  is  good 
for  pains  and  want  of  flow  in  monthly  troubles.  Take  1%  ounces  of  fluid 
extract  of  black  cohosh,  1 fluid  dram  of  tincture  of  mix  vomica  and  enough 
tincture  of  cinchona  compound  to  make  5 fluid  ounces.  For  pain  in  the 
ovaries,  uterine  neuralgia  and  amenorrhea  give  a teaspoonful  or  two  of  this 
mixture  in  water  every  3 or  4 hours. 

BLUE  COHOSH. 

Papoose  Root — Blue  Berry — Squaw  Root — (Caulophyllum  Thalictroides). 

Action. — Diaphoretic  Emmenagogue,  Anti-spasmodic. 

Uses. — Confinement,  Menstrual  Troubles,  Rheumatism,  Dropsy,  Hys- 
teria, Womb  Troubles,  Aphthous  Sore  Mouth  and  Throat. 

‘ This  was  also  a great  Indian  remedy,  especially  for  women  before  con- 
finement and  for  menstrual  troubles.  This  is  a smooth  plant,  purple  when 
young,  with  a high  round  stem  1 to  3 feet  high,  simple  from  matted  root 
stocks  and  dividing  above  into  two  parts.  The  flowers  appear  in  May  and 
June  and  produce  berries  of  a deep  blue  color,  something  like  sour  grapes. 
It  grows  all  over  the  United  States  in  low,  moist,  rich  grounds  near  run- 
ning streams,  in  swamps,  and  on  islands  that  have  been  overflowed  with 


312 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


water.  The  seeds  ripen  the  latter  part  of  the  summer  and  are  said  to  be  an 
excellent  substitute  for  coffee  when  they  have  been  washed.  The  root  is  the 
part  used  as  a medicine.  It  is  sweet,  pungent  and  aromatic.  The  tea  or 
tincture  made  from  it  is  yellow. 

It  is  used  principally  for  monthly  periods  and  has  an  anti-spasmodic 
action.  It  is  also  good  for  rheumatism  of  the  small  joints  and  especially 
when  associated  with  womb  troubles.  Also  used  for  dropsy,  hysteria  and 
chronic  womb  diseases.  It  excites  a special  influence  on  the  womb  and  is 
good  for  leucorrhea,  amenorrhea  and  dysmenorrhea.  It  is  very  good  when 
used  in  decoction  or  infusion  and  an  ounce  of  the  plant  should  be  used  to  a 
pint  of  boiling  water.  The  dose  of  this  is  from  1 to  4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a 
day  and  should  be  taken  for  several  weeks  before  confinement.  The  dose 
of  the  tincture  is  from  V2  to  1 dram.  In  confinement  it  is  good  to  hasten 
delivery  when  delay  is  due  to  debility  or  lack  of  uterine  energy  or  is  the 
result  of  fatigue.  Combined  with  equal  parts  of  golden  seal,  made  into  a 
tea,  and  sweetened  with  honey  it  is  very  good  for  aphthous  sore  mouth  and 
throat. 

BARBERRY. 

(Berberis  Vulgaris.) 

Action. — Tonic,  Diuretic. 

Uses. — Kidney  Troubles,  Urinary  Troubles,  Gravel. 

This  is  a shrub  which  rises  from  4 to  8 feet  in  height  and  has  long 
bending  branches  and  many  thorns.  It  has  egg-shaped  leaves,  yellow  flowers 
and  many  oblong  red  berries  which  hang  in  loose  bunches.  Found  on  hills 
and  mountains  from  Canada  to  Virginia.  It  flowers  in  April  and  May  and 
ripens  its  fruit  in  June.  The  bark  of  the  stem  and  root  is  the  part  used. 

It  is  a tonic  and  diuretic  and  is  especially  good  for  kidney  troubles, 
cloudy  urine,  diminished  urine,  pain  in  passing  urine  and  pain  in  back  and 
front.  It  is  also  good  for  gravel.  The  tea  made  from  the  bark  is  one  of  the 
best  kidney  remedies  known  and  the  dose  is  from,l  to  4 teaspoonfuls  4 
times  a day.  The  dose  of  the  fluid  extract  is  from  10  to  30  drops  3 or  4 times 
a day.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  from  1 to  2 ounces  of  the  bark  to  a pint 
of  boiling  water. 


BAYBERRY. 

Candle  Berry — Wax  Berry — Wax  Myrtle — (Myrica  Cerifera). 

Action. — Carminative,  Stomachic,  Emmenagogue. 

Uses. — Palsy,  Colic,  Hysterical  Complaints,  Scrofula,  Diarrhea,  Urinary 
Troubles,  Jaundice,  Kidney  Troubles,  Sore  Throat,  Leucorrhea. 

This  shrub  rises  3 or  4 feet  high  and  is  scraggy  with  many  branches. 
It  grows  near  large  bodies  of  water  and  especially  along  the  Great  Lakes. 
It  is  set  full  of  long,  smooth,  green  leaves.  From  the  sides  of  the  branches 
grow  small,  green  berries  covered  with  a pale  green  yellow.  It  grows  in 
the  United  States  and  is  abundant  in  New  Jersey. 

The  leaves  and  berries  are  warm  carminatives,  stomachic  and  emmena- 
gogue. Good  for  palsies,  colic,  hysterical  complaints,  scrofula,  diarrhea, 
urinary  troubles  and  jaundice.  It  is  applied  as  a poultice  for  scrofulous  swell- 
ings and  tumors.  The  bark  is  the  part  used  and  is  made  into  a tea  or  decoc- 
tion. Slippery  elm  may  be  added  to  it.  A tincture  is  also  made  of  the  bark. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


313 


The  tea  may  be  drank  in  doses  of  from  1 to  4 ounces  for  jaundice  and  kidney 
and  bladder  troubles.  The  powdered  bark  with  blood  root  is  good  for  slug- 
gish ulcers.  The  tincture  in  1 or  2 drop  doses  every  2 hours  is  especially 
good  for  epidemic  jaundice.  The  dose  of  the  powdered  bark  is  from  15 
to  20  grains.  The  decoction  is  made  by  using  an  ounce  of  the  bark  to  a 
quart  of  water  and  the  dose  is  from  to  2 ounces.  The  infusion  is  made  by 
using  an  ounce  of  the  bark  to  a pint  of  water  and  the  dose  is  from  1 to 
4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  The  decoction  is  a good  gargle  for  sore  throat 
and  is  also  good  as  an  injection  for  leucorrhea  and  is  fine  for  tender  and 
bleeding  gums. 

BEARBERRY. 

Red  Berry — Mountain  Box — Wild  Cranberry — (Arbutus  Uva  Ursi) — 
(Arctostaphylos  Uva  Ursi). 

Action. — Astringent,  Tonic,  Antilithic. 

Uses. — Kidney,  Bladder  and  Urinary  Troubles,  Diabetes,  Diarrhea,  Dys- 
entery, Excess  of  Menses,  Gonorrhea,  Gleet. 

Grows  in  North  America  and  Europe.  This  is  an  evergreen  shrub  or 
vine.  The  leaves  are  oval,  toothed,  of  a pale-green  color  and  smooth  on 
the  under  side.  The  flowers  are  whitish,  terminating  the  stem  in  clusters 
of  from  six  to  twelve.  The  berries  are  of  a scarlet  color  and  contain  5 seeds. 
Grows  on  mountains  and  dry  uplands  all  over  the  United  States.  Good  for 
debilitating  discharges  and  particularly  for  kidney,  bladder  and  urinary  pas- 
sages. Good  for  diabetes,  diarrhea,  dysentery,  excess  of  menses,  chronic 
kidney  and  bladder  troubles,  chronic  gonorrhea  and  gleet.  In  making  the 
decoction  use  an  ounce  of  the  leaves  to  IV2  pints  of  Avater  and  boil  down  to 
a pint.  The  dose  is  from  % to  3 ounces  or  half  a small  glassful  3 or  4 times 
a day.  The  dose  of  the  powder  is  from  5 to  10  grains  and  of  the  fluid  ex- 
tract from  V2  to  1 dram. 


BEECH  DROPS. 

Cancer  Root — (Epiphegus  Virginianus). 

Action. — Astringent. 

Uses. — Ulcers,  Wounds,  Erysipelas,  Canker,  Skin  Afifections. 

This  plant  grows  out  of  the  roots  of  beech  trees  in  low  grounds  and 
is  from  6 to  8 inches  high  and  of  a brown,  glossy,  sickly  color  with  brittle 
sprigs  but  no  leaves.  The  root  is  bulbous  and  similar  to  canen.  It  must 
be  gathered  before  the  frost  touches  it. 

Beech  drops  are  a powerful  astringent.  The  fresh  bruised  root  frequently 
applied  locally  is  said  to  be  very  good  for  ulcers  and  wounds  and  also  for 
erysipelas  and  canker  in  the  throat.  The  remedy  may  be  prepared  by  boil- 
ing 8 ounces  of  the  herbs  in  2 quarts  of  water  and  sweetening.  For  erysipe- 
las, open  the  bowels  and  take  a teacupful  of  this  decoction  4 times  a day.  At 
the  same  time  apply  cloths  wet  with  the  unsweetened  decoction  to  the  in- 
flamed parts  and  so  continue  until  cured.  A poultice  made  of  equal  parts 
of  beech  drops,  poke  root  and  white  oak  bark  is  very  good  for  ulcers  and 
skin  affections. 

BITTER  SWEET. 

Woody  Nightshade — Bitter  Sweet  Nightshade — (Solanum  Dulcamara). 

Action. — Narcotic,  Diuretic,  Diaphoretic. 


314 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Uses. — Liver  Complaints,  Ulcers,  Scrofula,  Whites,  Obstructed  Menses, 
Jaundice,  Cancer  of  Breast,  Syphilis. 

This  is  an  undershrub  with  a woody  base  and  leaves  in  bunches  at  the 
joints.  It  has  purple  flowers  and  blossoms  in  June  and  July  and  the  flowers 
are  followed  by  scarlet  berries.  Grows  in  the  United  States  and  is  usually 
found  in  swampy  places  on  a rise  of  ground.  The  small  twigs  and  stems 
should  be  gathered  in  late  autumn. 

Its  action  is  to  increase  all  secretions  and  excretions,  particularly  sweat, 
urine  and  stools,  and  it  excites  the  heart  and  pulse.  It  can  be  used  both 
externally  and  internally.  Very  good  in  real  liver  complaints,  hard  swellings, 
ill-looking  ulcers,  scrofula,  whites,  jaundice  and  obstructed  menses.  Good 
for  cancer  of  the  breast.  Apply  the  juice  over  the  cancer  and  cover  the 
breast  with  the  leaves.  It  is  used  in  the  same  way  for  ulcers.  For  internal 
use  boil  1/2  pound  of  the  stems  or  twigs  in  1 gallon  of  water  and  give  from 

2 to  4 ounces  3 times  a day.  Equal  parts  of  bitter  sweet  twigs,  yellow  dock 
root  and  stillingia,  made  into  a syrup  is  good  for  scrofulous  affections  and 
syphilis. 

BLACKBERRY— RED  RASPBERRY— DEWBERRY. 

Acton. — Tonic,  Astringent. 

Uses. — Dysentery,  Diarrhea,  Cholera  Infantum,  Bleeding  from  Stomach 
and  Bowels,  Gleet,  Leucorrhea,  Fallen  Bowel,  Fallen  Womb. 

The  leaves  and  bark  of  the  root  are  the  parts  used.  Boil  the  bark  in 
milk  and  it  is  good  for  dysentery  when  taken  freely.  Or,  a very  valuable 
preparation  for  dysentery  is  to  take  2 pounds  of  bruised  unripe  blackberries 
and  sirnmier  them  with  1 pound  of  loaf  sugar  and  1/2  pint  of  brandy.  This 
should  be  strained  and  bottled.  Syrup  of  blackberry  is  also  very  good  for 
dysentery.  This  is  a tonic  and  strongly  astringent.  A decoction  or  tea  made 
of  the  leaves  of  raspberry  is  also  very  good.  A decoction  made  of  the  bark 
of  blackberry  and  dewberry  is' good  for  use  in  diarrhea,  dysentery,  cholera 
infantum,  relaxed  condition  of  the  bowels  in  children  and  slow  bleeding  from 
the  stomach  and  bowels.  Decoction  of  raspberry  is  good  as  an  injection 
for  gonorrhea,  gleet,  leucorrhea  and  falling  of  the  bowel  and  womb.  For 
falling  womb  it  may  be  used  alone  or  in  combination  with  equal  parts  of 
black  cohosh  and  blackberry  roots.  It  should  be  made  into  a decoction  by 
using  an  ounce  to  a pint  of  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  4 ounces  several 
times  a day. 

BITTER  ROOT. 

American  Ipecac — Indian  Physic — Black  Indian  Hemp — Canadian  Hemp — 
Dog’s  Bane — (Apocynum  Cannabinum). 

Action. — Emetic. 

Uses. — Dropsy. 

There  are  two  kinds.  One  kind  grows  in  dry  woodlands  to  a height  of 
two  feet.  The  other  kind  grows  in  wet  or  low  lands  usually  3 or  4 feet  high 
and  the  roots,  like  the  former  kind,  run  horizontally  beneath  the  surface 
but  are  longer  and  of  a different  color.  The  latter  kind  is  more  easily  ob- 
tained and  is  generally  used. 

As  a tea  it  can  be  taken  freely  and  is  very  good  for  dropsy.  It  is  called 
the  vegetable  trocar.  You  can  use  from  5 to  30  drops  of  the  tincture  every 

3 hours  or  from  1 to  5 drops  of  the  fluid  extract  every  3 hours.  This  is 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


316 


excellent  for  heart  and  kidney  dropsy.  In  making  the  tea  use  an  ounce  to 
a pint  of  water  and  give  from  to  % ounce  3 or  4 times  a day. 

BLOOD  ROOT. 

Red  Root — Red  Puccoon — (Sanguinaria  Canadensis). 

Action. — Acid,  Emetic,  Expectorant,  Tonic,  Antiseptic,  Alterative. 

Uses. — Lung  and  Liver  Troubles,  Catarrh,  Croup,  Whooping  Cough, 
Typhoid  Pneumonia,  Rheumatism,  Jaundice,  Dyspepsia,  Sick  Headache. 

Grows  in  most  parts  of  the  United  States  in  woods  and  on  shady  banks 
in  rich,  light  soil.  It  is  one  of  the  earliest  and  most  beautiful  spring  flowers 
of  this  country,  appearing  in  March  and  April.  The  root  is  about  the  thick- 
ness of  a finger,  3 or  3 inches  long,  fleshy,  reddish-brown  without  and  brighter 
red  within.  Each  bud  gives  off  a single  large,  smooth  leaf.  The  flower  is 
white  and  of  short  duration.  The  whole  plant  is  pervaded  with  an  acid, 

orange-colored  juice  but  the  greatest  quantity  is  in  the  root.  It  imparts  its 

qualities  to  boiling  water  and  to  alcohol.  The  root  should  be  kept  in  a dry 
place.  Age  and  moisture  impair  its  value. 

It  is  an  acid,  emetic,  expectorant,  tonic  and  antiseptic  and  is  a very 
active  agent.  Small  doses  stimulate  the  stomach  and  hasten  the  pulse  and 
larger  doses  produce  nausea  and  slow  the  pulse  while  the  full  dose  causes 
active  vomiting.  It  is  used  for  the  lungs  and  liver,  catarrh,  croup,  whooping 
cough,  typhoid  pneumonia,  rheumatism,  jaundice,  dyspepsia  and  sick  head- 
ache. The  tea  is  made  by  using  an  ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  water 

■and  the  dose  is  from  % to  1 ounce  3 or  4 times  a day.  If  given  oftener  it 

should  be  given  in  smaller  doses.  Do  not  give  enough  to  nauseate.  For  sev- 
eral diseases  it  is  given  every  few  hours.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from 
l^to  20  drops  and  of  the  fluid  extract  from  5 to  10  drops.  For  the  diseases 
imntioned  give  2 teaspoonfuls  or  more  of  the  tea  every  two  hours.  For 
sick  headache  give  the  same  dose  every  half  hour.  The  tincture  is  very  good 
for  sick  headache  when  used  in  the  following  way.  Put  5 drops  of  good 
tincture  into  a glass  half  full  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every  10 
minutes  until  better.  As  an  emetic  for  croup  the  dose  of  the  powder  is 
10  to  20  grains  and  of  the  tincture,  20  to  30  drops.  As  a stimulant  or  ex- 
pectorant give  3 to  5 grains  and  as  an  alterative  for  liver  troubles  give  from 
% to  2 grains  4 times  a day.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  for  these  troubles  is 
from  2 to  3 drops  every  3 hours. 

BLUE  FLAG. 

Flag  Lily — Snake  Lily — Liver  Lily — Flower  de  Luce — (Iris  Versicolor) 

(Iris  Pseudo-Acorus). 

Action. — Emetic,  Cathartic,  Diuretic,  Alterative. 

Uses. — Bilious  Sick  Headache,  Dropsy,  Scrofula,  Syphilis,  Chronic  Kid- 
ney and  Liver  Diseases. 

Is  found  in  moist  places  and  on  borders  of  ponds.  It  is  a very  attractive 
wild  flower.  The  flowers  are  large  and  showy,  violet-blue,  and  variegated 
with  greenish-yellow  and  white,  with  purple  veins.  The  flowers  appear  in 
May  and  June. 

The  fresh  powdered  root  is  an  emetic  and  cathartic.  It  acts  very  de- 
cidedly on  the  liver  and  is  a diuretic  and  alterative.  The  root  loses  its  virtue 
with  age  and  exposure.  Immediately  after  it  is  dug  and  cleaned,  bruise  it  and 


316 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  xMEDICAL  BOOK. 


infuse  in  spirits  for  a tincture ; or,  after  carefully  cutting  out  the  dead  matter 
and  cleaning  it,  dry  it  quickly  before  a fire,  pulverize,  and  bottle  tight  for 
use.  As  a cathartic  give  20  grains  of  the  powder  and  repeat  it  if  necessary. 
The  dose  of  the  tincture  made  from  the  fresh  root  is  10  drops.  It  is  very 
good  in  1-drop  doses  for  bilious  sick  headache.  For  dropsy  give  10  grains 
of  the  powdered  root  every  2 hours ; or,  combine  it  with  turkey  corn  or 
snake  root  and  use  as  a watery  cathartic.  For  anasarca  and  water  in  the 
chest  use  the  saturated  tincture  of  the  root.  Give  a teaspoonful  every  2 or 
3 hours  until  the  bowels  move  freely.  It  is  good  for  scrofula  and  syphilis  and 
can  be  combined  with  mandrake,  black  cohosh  and  poke  root.  In  chronic 
kidney  and  liver  diseases,  from  5 to  10  grains  of  the  powdered  root  given 
3 or  4 times  a day  is  very  good.  For  powerful  alterative  action  use  equal 
parts  of  blue  flag  root,  mandrake  and  prickly  ash  bark.  Give  10  grains  every 
2 or  3 hours  to  fall  short  of  cathartic  action.  This  produces  pain  in  some 
people  and  to  avoid  this  a few  grains  of  ginger  should  be  added.  This  is  a 
splendid  remedy. 


BONESET. 

Thoroughwort — Feverwort — Sweating  Plant — Crosswort — Vegetable 
Antimony — Ague  Weed — Indian  Sage — (Eupatorium  Perfoliatum). 

Action. — Diaphoretic,  Tonic,  Emetic,  Alterative,  Antiseptic,  Cathartic., 
Febrifuge,  Astringent,  Stimulant. 

Uses. — Fevers,  Colds,  Ague,  Dropsy,  Acute  and  Chronic  Rheumatism, 
Catarrh,  Bilious  Fevers,  Influenza. 

This  plant  grows  in  the  United  States.  It  is  a valuable  sweater,  tonic, 
alterative,  antiseptic,  cathartic,  emetic,  febrifuge,  astringent  and  stimulant. 
It  was  one  of  the  most  powerful  remedies  of  the  native  Indian  tribes  for  fevWfe, 
colds,  agues,  etc.  It  grows  most  commonly  in  meadows  and  swamps  near 
streams.  The  leaves  are  joined  together  around  the  stem,  giving  the  effect 
of  being  run  through  by  the  plant.  The  plant  is  of  a grayish-green  color  and 
the  flowers  are  a pale  white.  The  leaves  are  woolly  below  and  rough  above 
and  taper  where  they  are  joined  to  a sharp  point.  The  seeds  are  black  and 
oblong.  A strong  decoction  made  of  the  plant  should  be  taken  warm.  It 
vomits  freely  and  is  sufficient  to  break  up  almost  any  cold  or  fever  at  the 
beginning.  It  cleanses  the  stomach,  excites  all  secretions,  relaxes  constric- 
tion and  produces  sweating.  By  causing  sweating  it  is  good  for  colds. 
Always  take  a drink  of  cold  tea  after  the  sweat  is  over.  The  cold  infusion 
preparations  are  tonics  and  do  not  produce  vomiting.  The  dose  of  the 
strong  tea  is  from  2 to  4 ounces  once  or  twice  a day.  The  dose  of  the  fluid 
extract  is  from  30  to  40  drops.  It  is  good  for  intermittent  and  remittent 
fever,  diseases  of  general  debility,  dropsv.  troubles  arising  from  intemperance, 
acute  and  chronic  rheumatism,  catarrh,  bilious  fevers,  influenza  and  lake  fevers. 
It  may  be  used  as  a tonic  f sweetened),  laxative  or  emetic  by  changing  the  dose 
and  using  warm.  The  syrup  does  away  with  the  nauseous  taste.  The  dose  of 
the  powder  is  from  10  to  20  grains  once  or  twice  a day.  Of  the  decoction  and 
infusion  the  dose  is  from  to  3 ounces  once  or  twice  a day.  The  cold  prep- 
arations are  not  so  exhausting.  To  make  the  infusion  use  2 ounces  of  the 
plant  to  a pint  of  boiling  water  but  do  not  boil  it.  To  make  the  decoction 
boil  2 ounces  of  the  plant  in  a quart  of  water.  The  dose  of  the  fluid  extract 
is  from  30  to  60  drops. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


317 


BOXWOOD. 

(Not  Dogwood.) 

Uses. — Menstrual  Troubles. 

The  bark  steeped  and  drank  is  a splendid  remedy  for  menstrual  troubles, 
especially  in  young  girls.  It  was  extensively  and  successfully  used  for  this 
purpose  by  the  early  settlers.  It  can  be  bought  at  drug  stores.  Drink  freely  » 
of  the  tea  made  of  the  bark. 

BUCHU. 

Action. — Diuretic. 

Uses. — Scanty  and  Painful  Urination,  Inflammation  of  Bladder  and  Kid- 
neys. 

Buchu  grows  best  in  South  Africa.  It  can  be  bought  in  packages  at  drug 
stores.  To  make  buchu  tea  add  an  ounce  of  the  leaves  to  a pint  of  boiling 
water,  steep,  and  strain  when  cool.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  every  3 
to  5 hours.  It  is  splendid  for  scanty  or  painful  urination  and  is  good  when 
the  bladder  and  kidneys  are  inflamed.  It  is  very  mild  and  soothing.  It  should 
be  used  often  either  alone  or  with  bruised  pumpkin  seeds.  The  dose  of  the 
fluid  extract  is  a teaspoonful. 

BUCK  THORN  BRAKE. 

(Osmunda  Regalis.) 

Action. — Tonic,  Mucilaginous,  Strengthening. 

Uses. — Whites,  Female  Weakness,  Dysentery,  Diarrhea,  Sprains,  Weak 
Back. 

This  brake  is  common  in  the  United  States.  It  grows  in  swamps  and 
^ low  grounds  and  may  be  known  by  its  growing  very  large  and  in  mats, 
^m  which  an  immense  number  of  thick,  brittle  shoots  spring  up  in  the 
springtime,  curling  around  like  a buck’s  horn. 

Its  action  is  mucilaginous,  tonic  and  strengthening.  The  roots  and 
shoots  in  decoction  or  compounded  with  other  articles  form  a very  strength- 
ening syrup  for  female  weaknesses,  particularly  leucorrhea.  The  decoction 
is  made  by  boiling  4 ounces  of  the  plant  in  a pint  of  water  and  the  dose 
is  from  1 to  2 ounces  every  2 to  4 hours.  It  is  also  good  for  dysentery  and 
diarrhea  and  as  a tonic  during  convalescence  (getting  well).  One  root  infused 
in  a pint  of  hot  water  for  half  an  hour  will  convert  the  whole  into  a thick 
jelly.  This  is  very  valuable  for  female  weaknesses.  The  root  mixed  with 
brandy  is  a ver)^  popular  remedy  as  an  external  application  for  sprains, 
weak  back,  etc. 

BURDOCK. 

(Arctium  Lappa.) 

Action. — Cathartic,  Diuretic,  Diaphoretic. 

Uses. — Bad  Blood,  Rheumatism,  Gout,  Venereal  Diseases,  Kidney 
Troubles. 

Grows  along  road  sides.  Has  burrs  which  stick  tight  to  a person.  Pro- 
motes sweating  and  urination  and  is  very  cleansing.  Good  for  bad  blood. 
The  seeds,  when  pulverized  and  taken  as  a powder  in  from  I/2  to  1 teaspoonful 
doses,  act  as  a powerful  diuretic.  The  decoction  or  tea  taken  freely  is  good 
for  rheumatism,  gout,  venereal  and  other  blood  diseases.  Acts  better  com- 
bined with  other  remedies  like  dandelion,  yellow  dock,  wahoo,  sarsaparilla. 


318 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


prickly  ash  or  wild  cherry.  The  decoction  is  made  by  boiling  4 ounces  of 
the  root  in  a quart  of  water.  Half  a pint  of  this  may  be  drank  3 or  4 times 
a day.  The  seeds  are  more  diuretic  than  the  root  and  are  a more  useful 
alterative.  They  are  principally  used  for  kidney  troubles. 

CARAWAY. 

(Carum  Carui.) 

Action. — Stomachic,  Carminative. 

Uses. — Flatulence,  Colic. 

This  plant  is  cultivated  in  our  gardens.  It  is  a good  stomachic  and 
carminative  (for  gas).  For  colic  give  from  % to  teaspoonful  of  the  seeds. 
The  tea  is  made  by  adding  2 teaspoonfuls  of  the  seeds  to  a pint  of  boiling 
water.  Do  not  boil  the  tea.  This  tea  may  be  taken  freely.  The  dose  of 
the  oil  is  from  1 to  2 drops.  This  is  very  good  for  wind  colic  in  children. 
The  following  is  a good  combination  for  flatulence  and  colic.  Take  2 fluid 
ounces  of  infusion  of  caraway,  1 fluid  ounce  of  peppermint  water,  1 dram  of 
soda  and  2 fluid  ounces  of  syrup  of  rhubarb.  Take  from  1 to  2 teaspoonfuls 
every  3 to  4 hours. 

CATNIP. 

(Nepeta  Cateria.) 

Action. — Sweater,  Tonic.  . 

Uses. — Colds,  Flatulence,  Amenorrhea,  Dysmenorrhea,  Nervous  Head- 
aches, Irritability,  Inflammations. 

This  is  a very  good  remedy  for  colds  to  produce  sweating  and  also  for 
colds  and  flatulence  in  babies.  It  is  used  warm.  It  is  also  very  good  to  put 
into  poultices.  To  make  the  tea  use  an  ounce  of  the  dried  herb  to  a pint  of  water. 
This  may  be  given  freely  to  adults  and  to  babies  you  can  give  from  i/4  to  % 
teaspoonful.  It  is  a tonic  when  used  cold.  It  is  good  for  amenorrhea  and  dys- 
menorrhea and  also  for  nervous  headaches  and  irritability.  One  teaspoonful 
at  a dose  of  equal  parts  of  fluid  extract  of  catnip,  fluid  extract  of  valerian  and 
fluid  extract  of  skullcap,  is  very  good  for  nervous  headache,  restlessness,  etc. 
The  leaves  are  used  for  poultices  and  also  in  fomentations  for  inflammations. 

CAYENNE  PEPPER. 

Capsicum — Red  Pepper— (Capsicum  Annuum). 

Action. — Stimulant,  Irritant,  Stomachic,  Rubefacient. 

Uses. — Stimulating  Digestion.  Delirium  Tremens,  Vomiting  of  Drunk- 
ards, Rheumatism,  Neuralgia,  Headache,  Flatulent  Colic. 

This  is  a local  stimulant  and  irritant.  Taken  in  small  doses  internally 
it  causes  warmth  and  stimulates  digestion.  It  is  good  for  delirium  tremens 
and  to  check  the  vomiting  of  drunkards  and  to  stimulate  the  nervous  system 
of  those  who  are  trying  to  stop  drinking.  Tincture  of  capsicum  is  used  in 
liniments  for  neuralgia,  rheumatism,  headache,  flatulent  colic,  etc.  The  pow- 
der is  frequently  sprinkled  over  the  surface  of  plasters.  The  dose  of  tincture 
of  capsicum  is  from  5 to  30  drops  well  diluted. 

CHAMOMILE. 

Roman  Chamomile — German  Metricaria — (Anthemis  Nobilis). 

Action. — Stomachic.  Diaphoretic. 

Uses. — Colic  and  Green  Diarrhea  of  Babies,  Fretful  Babies,  Vomiting 
during  Pregnancy,  Bitters. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


319 


Good  for  colic  and  green  diarrhea  of  babies,  especially  at  teething  time 
when  they  are  cross,  fretful  and  sleepless.  Make  a tea  by  putting  the  flowers 
into  cold  water  and  give  freely.  This  is  very  good  to  produce  sweating. 
It  should  be  given  freely  in  warm  infusion.  Use  4 drams  of  the  plant  to  a pint 
of  cold  water  and  give  from  1 to  2 ounces  at  a dose.  Chamomile  makes  good 
bitters  for  the  stomach  and  is  good  for  vomiting  during  pregnancy. 

CHESTNUT. 

(Castanea.) 

Uses. — Whooping  Cough,  Light  Coughs,  Diarrhea. 

Use  the  leaves,  which  should  be  collected  in  September  or  October. 
Chestnut  leaf  tea  made  from  the  green  leaves  and  drank  freely  is  one  of 
the  best  remedies  known  for  whooping  cough.  It  is  also  good  for  other 
light  coughs.  The  fluid  extract  is  better  for  diarrhea.  The  dose  is  from  1 
to  2 teaspoonfuls.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  a handful  of  the  leaves  to  a 
pint  of  water  and  the  dose  for  children  is  % ounce  3 or  4 times  a day. 

CINNAMON. 

(Cinnamomum.) 

Action. — Stimulant,  Stomachic,  Carminative,  Astringent,  Aromatic. 

Uses. — Bowel  Complaints,  Stomach  Tonic. 

Cinnamon  is  stimulating  and  warming  and  a good  stomach  tonic.  It  is 
also  good  for  bowel  complaints.  It  is  much  used  as  a flavoring  extract  and 
to  disguise  the  taste  and  smell  of  other  medicines.  The  dose  of  cinnamon 
in  powder  is  Ys  of  a small  teaspoonful. 

CLEAVERS. 

Goose  Grass — Catchweed — Clivers — (Galium  Aparine). 

Action. — Diuretic,  Aperient,  Antiscorbutic. 

Uses. — Suppression  of  Urine,  Kidney  Troubles,  Gravel,  Tumors,  Freckles, 
Erysipelas,  Scarlet  Fever,  Measles. 

This  vine-like  grass  grows  in  hedges,  on  low  grounds,  in  meadows  and 
near  brooks.  It  rises  from  4 to  6 feet  in  height,  climbing  the  bushes  near 
it.  The  leaves  are  eight  in  a whorl  and  the  upper  side  is  w'hitish  with  sharp 
prickers.  The  stem  is  square,  the  angles  being  guarded  with  sharp  prickers 
which  are  bent  downward.  The  flowers  are  small,  inconspicuous  and  divided 
in  4 segments.  These  change  into  a rather  large  fruit  composed  of  two  ber- 
ries slightly  adhering  together  and  covered  with  hooded  prickers  containing 
two  seeds. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  diuretics  or  kidney  remedies  that  our 
country  produces.  It  is  good  and  speedy  for  all  suppression  of  urine  and 
for  gravel  complaints.  The  pressed  juice  mixed  with  oatmeal  to  the  consist- 
ency of  a poultice  and  applied  over  an  indolent  tumor  three  times  a day, 
keeping  the  bowels  open  by  castor  oil,  and  taking  a tablespoonful  of  the 
juice  every  morning,  will  often  drive  the  tumor  away  in  a few  days.  The  tea 
should  be  made  with  cold  water.  Three  or  four  ounces  of  the  dried  herb  to 
a quart  of  water  is  suflicient.  This  should  be  used  every  day  as  a common 
drink  and  especially  for  gravel.  It  seems  to  possess  a solvent  power  over 
the  stone  or  gravel,  crumbling  it  into  a sandy  substance.  It  is  peculiarly 
applicable  to  inflammation  of  the  kidneys  and  bladder  from  its  crumbling  as 
well  as  its  diuretic  quality.  You  can  make  a warm  tea  by  using  lYo  ounces 


320 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


of  the  herb  to  a pint  of  warm  water  and  steeping  for  two  hours.  Take  2 to 
4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  This  may  be  sweetened  with  honey  or  sugar.  Take 
equal  parts  of  cleavers,  maiden  hair  and  elder  blows  and  steep  in  warm  water 
for  2 or  3 hours  and  when  cold  drink  freely  for  erysipelas,  scarlet  fever  and 
measles.  The  tea  made  with  cold  water  is  good  for  freckles  when  applied 
locally  several  times  a day. 

CLOVES. 

(Caryophyllus.) 

Action. — Stimulant,  Aromatic,  Carminative. 

Uses. — Nausea,  Vomiting,  Toothache,  Cholera  Morbus,  Wind  Colic. 

A decoction  of  cloves  is  good  for  sickness  at  the  stomach  and  to  check 
vomiting  and  also  for  wind  colic.  The  decoction  is  made  by  boiling  2 or  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cloves  in  i/2  pint  of  sweet  milk.  The  dose  is  a table- 
spoonful every  15  to  30  minutes  as  hot  as  can  be  borne.  This  will  be  found 
valuable  for  cholera  morbus.  The  oil  of  cloves  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
powder.  The  oil  of  cloves  put  upon  cotton  and  placed  in  the  cavity  of  a 
tooth  is  good  for  toothache. 

COLUMBO  ROOT. 

(Imported.) 

Action. — Emetic,  Cathartic,  Tonic,  Antiseptic. 

Uses. — Fevers,  Debility,  Stomach  Troubles,  Headache,  Rheumatism,  In- 
flammation. 

This  is  an  emetic  and  cathartic  when  fresh  and  is  good  as  a tonic,  anti- 
septic and  for  fevers  when  dry.  It  yields  its  bitterness  to  water  but  proof 
spirits  is  its  proper  menstruum.  The  doses  are  from  1 to  2 drams  of  the 
powder  and  1 to  2 ounces  of  the  tea.  The  root  ought  to  be  collected  from 
the  fall  of  the  second  year  to  the  spring  of  the  third  year  of  its  growth. 
The  root  is  a good  antiseptic  and  bitter  and  is  used  successfully  in  debility 
and  diseases  of  the  stomach.  It  is  good  for  relaxed  stomach  and  bowels,  in- 
digestion, etc.  It  takes  the  place  of  rhubarb  as  a laxative  for  children  and 
pregnant  women.  Cold  water  helps  its  efficiency  and  prevents  nausea  and 
vomiting.  A teaspoonful  of  the  powder  in  hot  water  and  sugar  will  give 
relief  in  case  of  over-eating  or  weak  stomach.  The  leaves  produce  sweating 
when  laid  on  the  forehead  and  frequently  relieve  headache.  The  fresh  leaves 
applied  externally  in  this  manner  are  also  good  for  rheumatism  and  inflamma- 
tion. The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  1 to  2 drams.  The  dose  of  the  in- 
fusion is  from  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  The  infusion,  or  tea,  is  made 
by  using  an  ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  water. 

COMFREY. 

Healing  Herb — Gum  Plant — (Symphytum  Officinale). 

Action. — Mucilaginous,  Expectorant,  Emollient. 

Uses. — Bruises,  Ruptures,  Fresh  Wounds,  Sore  Breasts,  Ulcers,  Gout, 
Soreness  of  Bowels,  Coughs,  Whites,  Female  Weakness. 

It  grows  in  meadows  near  springs  and  is  planted  in  gardens  for  family 
use.  The  root  is  the  part  used  and  is  soothing  and  mucilaginous  like  marsh- 
mallow. It  blossoms  in  May  and  June  and  bears  white  or  rose-colored  flowers 
at  the  extremities  of  the  branches.  The  root  is  large  and  is  blackish  outside 
and  white  inside.  The  fresh  root  when  bruised  is  a good  application  for 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


321 


bruises,  ruptures,  fresh  wounds,  sore  breasts,  ulcers,  gout,  etc.  A decoction 
made  by  using  from  % to  2 ounces  of  the  root  to  a quart  of  water  is  good 
for  internal  injuries  and  soreness  and  erosions  of  the  bowels  caused  by  diar- 
rhea and  dysentery.  It  is  good  for  coughs  and  promotes  expectoration. 
Drink  the  decoction  freely  during  the  day.  It  is  also  good  for  leucorrhea 
and  female  weaknesses. 

CORNSILK. 

(Maida  Stigmata.) 

Action. — Diuretic. 

Uses. — Congested  Kidneys,  Chronic  Inflammation  of  Kidneys,  Suppressed 
Urine,  Irritable  Bladder,  Acute  and  Chronic  Cystitis,  Dropsy. 

The  green  pistils  of  maize,  or  Indian  corn,  gathered  when  the  tassel  has 
shed  its  pollen  are  good  as  medicine.  Cornsilk  is  a diuretic  in  local  dropsy 
and  heart  trouble.  It  is  good  for  congested  kidneys,  chronic  inflammation 
of  the  kidneys,  suppressed  urine,  irritable  bladder  and  acute  and  chronic 
cystitis.  It  is  good  for  dropsy  of  the  lower  extremities  from  heart  or  kidney 
disease.  The  fluid  extract  is  the  best  way  to  give  it  and  the  dose  is  from 

1 to  2 drams  every  3 to  4 hours.  A tea  may  be  made  of  the  cornsilks  but 
is  not  so  easily  made  as  most  teas.  The  following  combination  is  good  for 
dropsy.  Take  1%  ounces  of  the  fluid  extract  of  cornsilk,  3 ounces  of  the 
fluid  extract  of  dandelion  and  3 ounces  of  the  infusion  of  digitalis.  Give 

2 teaspoonfuls  in  water  every  3 or  4 hours.  Another  good  preparation  for 
the  same  purpose  is  made  by  taking  2 ounces  of  fluid  extract  of  cornsilk,  3 
drams  of  cream  of  tartar  and  2 ounces  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre.  The  dose 
of  this  is  half  a teaspoonful  every  2 or  3 hours.  Cornsilk  is  a good  remedy 
in  the  fluid  extract  form  but,  as  before  said,  it  is  difficult  to  make  a tea. 
However,  a tea  made  of  powdered  corn  is  very  good  for  nausea  and  vomiting 
in  many  diseases. 

CRAWLEY  ROOT. 

Fever  Root — Dragon’s  Claw — Chicken’s  Toes — Coral  Root — (Corallorhiza 

Odontorhiza). 

Action. — Diaphoretic. 

Uses. — Fevers,  Pleurisy,  Scanty  and  Painful  Menses,  Bilious  Colic. 

It  grows  in  beds  or  patches  and  rises  6 or  7 inches  high.  The  leaves 
grow  in  a cluster  from  the  top  of  the  root.  The  blossoms  are  yellow.  It 
has  a small  black  root  resembling  cloves  and  having  a strong  smell  similar 
to  nitre.  It  grows  in  Canada,  New  York  and  some  of  the  other  northern 
states.  The  root  is  effectual  in  all  remittent,  nervous  and  inflammatory  fevers 
like  pleurisy.  It  equalizes  the  circulation,  relaxes  the  s)^stem  generally  and 
brings  a moisture  to  the  surface.  It  is  diaphoretic,  or  produces  sweating. 
Prepare  the  root  by  pulverizing  and  putting  into  tightly  corked  bottles.  After 
the  stomach  and  bowels  are  well  cleared  by  a cathartic,  a half  a teaspoonful 
of  the  powder  may  be  given  every  2 hours  in  a cup  of  warm  herb  tea  or 
warm  water.  This  may  be  continued  until  a moisture  appears  on  the  skin 
or  until  5 or  6 doses  have  been  taken.  It  can  also  be  given  with  pleurisy 
root  for  pleurisy.  Combined  with  blue  cohosh  it  forms  an  excellent  medicine 
for  amenorrhea  (scanty  menses  or  none  at  all)  and  dysmenorrhea  (painful 
menses).  It  is  very  good  for  after  pains  and  suppressed  after  flow.  It  is  also 
very  good  to  act  upon  the  bowels  and  liver  when  combined  with  mandrake 
or  Culver’s  root.  Mixed  with  wild  yam  it  is  very  good  for  bilious  colic. 

21 


332 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


CROWFOOT. 

Wild  Cranesbill — Storkbill — Tormentil — (Geranium  Maculatum). 

Action. — Astringent. 

Uses. — Wounds,  Gonorrhea,  Ulcers,  Diabetes,  Bloody  Urine,  Profuse 
Menstruation,  Aphthous  Sore  Mouth,  Dysentery,  Diarrhea,  Cholera  Infantum, 
Bleeding  Piles,  Nose  Bleed,  Hemorrhage,  Gleet,  Leucorrhea,  Flooding,  Quinsy. 

This  plant  is  perennial,  horizontal ; has  a thick,  rough,  knobby  and  fleshy 
root,  black  outside  and  reddish  inside,  with  short  fibres.  It  has  long,  slender 
stalks,  1 to  3 feet  high  with  long  narrow  leaves  or  segments  at  a joint  with 
2 leaves  at  each  fork.  The  flowers  are  large  and  generally  purple,  mostly  in 
pairs  with  long  stems  like  a crane’s  bill  springing  from  the  leaves.  The  fruit 
is  a capsule  in  5 sections  containing  1 seed  each.  This  plant  grows  in  all 
parts  of  the  United  States.  It  is  found  in  open  woods,  thickets  and  hedges. 
Flowers  from  April  to  June.  The  root  is  used  and  should  be  collected  late  in 
autumn. 

It  is  a powerful  astringent.  The  Indians  used  it  for  wounds,  gonorrhea, 
ulcers  of  the  legs,  diabetes,  bloody  urine,  too  great  menstruation  and  aph- 
thous sore  mouth.  It  is  good  for  children  with  poor  stomachs.  It  is  used 
in  infusion  as  an  astringent  with  milk  in  the  second  stage  of  dysentery,  diar- 
rhea and  cholera  infantum.  A strong  decoction  of  the  root,  2 ounces  to  a 
pint  of  water,  may  be  injected  for  bleeding  piles  and  retained  as  long  as  pos- 
sible. As  an  ointment  it  is  also  good  for  piles.  In  making  the  ointment  add 
2 ounces  of  the  finely  powdered  root  of  cranesbill  to  7 ounces  of  tobacco. 
Apply  the  ointment  to  piles  3 or  4 times  a day.  Crowfoot  or  cranesbill  is 
also  good  for  nose  bleed  and  bleeding  from  wounds  and  small  vessels,  as 
after  pulling  teeth.  Apply  the  powder  to  the  bleeding  parts  and  if  possible 
cover  with  a cotton  compress.  In  decoction  in  combination  with  unicorn 
root  it  has  proved  of  service  in  diabetes  and  Bright’s  disease.  For  gleet  and 
leucorrhea,  a decoction  of  2 parts  cranesbill  and  1 part  blood  root  forms  an 
excellent  injection.  The  decoction  is  also  useful  as  a gargle  for  quinsy,  sore 
throat  and  in  severe  cases  of  flooding  after  labor.  In  these  troubles  the  appli- 
cation of  cranesbill  either  in  decoction  or  fluid  extract  by  injection  or  by 
sterile  cloths  is  very  good.  The  dose  of  the  powdered  root  is  from  20  to  30 
grains  3 or  4 times  a day.  In  making  the  decoction  an  ounce  of  the  root  may 
be  used  to  a pint  of  boiling  water  and  the  dose  is  one  or  two  ounces  three 
or  four  times  a day.  Crowfoot  or  cranesbill  is  an  excellent  remedy. 

CULVER’S  ROOT. 

Culver’s  Physic — Black  Root — Tall  Veronica — (Leptandra  Virginica). 

Action. — Antiseptic,  Tonic,  Diaphoretic,  Cathartic. 

Uses. — Bilious  Fever,  Torpid  Liver,  Constipation,  Dropsy,  Dyspepsia. 

This  root  grows  in  the  United  States  and  is  perennial,  black  or  dark 
colored  with  many  small  fibres  growing  from  a long,  woody  candex  or  head. 
The  stems,  several  arising  from  the  same  root,  are  round,  somewhat  hairy, 
growing  from  2 to  4 feet  high  and  branching  with  the  branches  bearing  on 
their  tops  a spike  or  tassel  of  crowded  white  flowers.  The  leaves  are  in 
whorls  of  4 or  5 at  a joint  and  are  long,  narrow  and  pointed  with  edges 
set  with  unequal  sharp  teeth.  Grows  in  wettish  lands,  near  streams  and  in 
open  glades  and  plains  and  in  limestone  lands.  The  dried  root  is  used  as  the 
fresh  root  is  too  violent  and  drastic.  It  operates  mildly  and  certainly  and  does 


COMAIOX  HERBS  USED  AS  MEDICINES. 


Dandelion. 

Used  for  Liver  Complaints,  Con- 
st i p a t i o n.  Jaundice,  Dyspepsia. 
Dropsy,  etc.  Also  used  in  Blood 
Remedies. 


Henbane  or  Poison  Tobacco. 

Used  for  Fistula.  Boils,  Ulcers, 
Swollen  Breasts,  Tumors,  Inflamed 
Eyes,  etc. 


Hops. 

Used  for  Nervousness,  Sleep- 
lessness, Indigestion,  Inflamma- 
tions, Rheumatism,  Earache,  Pleur- 
isy, Tof)thache.  Appendicitis,  etc. 


Stramonium  or  Thorn  Apple. 

( Poison. ) 

Used  for  Piles.  Painful  Monthlies, 
Burns,  Cancers,  Tumors,  UIcc-rs, 
Sciatica,  Asthma,  Epilepsy,  Insan- 
ity, etc. 


Iris  or  Blue  Flag. 

Blue  Flag  is  used  for  Bilious 
Sick  Headache,  Dropsy,  Scrofula, 
Venereal  Diseases  and  Chronic 
Kidney  and  Liver  Diseases. 


Lily  of  the  Valley. 

Used  for  Heart  Troubles, 
Bright’s  Disease,  F»ropsy,  Urinary 
Diseases,  etc. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


323 


not  produce  much  depression.  It  is  good  for  bilious  fever,  torpid  liver,  con- 
stipation and  dropsy.  It  is  antiseptic,  tonic  and  a sweat  producer.  In 
fevers  it  removes  the  black  tarry  matter  from  the  bowels  without  weakening 
them.  The  dose  is  from  V2  to  1 teaspoonful  added  to  half  a gill  of  boiling 
water  and  sweetened  if  desired.  Repeat  in  3 hours  if  it  does  not  move  the 
bowels.  Powder  the  dry  root.  The  dose  of  the  fluid  extract  is  from  % to  1 
dram.  To  make  a weak  tea  use  an  ounce  to  a pint  of  water  and  give  % 
ounce  at  a dose.  The  dose  of  the  powdered  dry  root  as  a cathartic  is  20  to 
60  grains.  Use  the  infusion  in  fevers.  One  half  of  a fluid  ounce  should 
be  given  every  hour  until  it  operates  and  it  should  be  repeated  daily  if  nec- 
essary. It  is  very  good  in  small  doses  as  a laxative  and  a tonic  for  dys- 
pepsia and  when  the  liver  is  torpid.  The  dose  is  from  3 to  5 grains  of 
the  root  4 times  a day. 

DANDELION. 

Monkshood — (Taraxacum) . 

Action. — Laxative,  Diaphoretic,  Diuretic,  Expectorant,  Tonic,  Alterative, 
Aperient. 

Uses. — Liver  Complaint,  Constipation,  Jaundice,  Dyspepsia,  Dropsy, 
Blood  Purifier. 

The  root  should  be  gathered  in  the  autumn.  It  is  laxative,  diaphoretic, 
diuretic,  expectorant,  tonic  and  alterative.  It  is  good  for  torpid  liver  and 
liver  complaint,  constipation,  jaundice,  dyspepsia  and  dropsy.  It  is  prepared 
in  decoction  or  infusion  from  the  green  plant.  The  pressed  juice  is  the  best. 
It  can  be  used  freely.  Combined  with  other  remedies  such  as  yellow  dock, 
burdock  or  wahoo  it  acts  very  well  as  a blood  purifier.  The  dose  of  the  root 
extract  is  from  10  to  40  grains;  of  the  root  fluid  extract,  from  1 to  2 drams 
and  of  the  infusion,  from  1 to  2 ounces.  The  infusion  may  be  taken  fre- 
quently. The  following  is  a good  blood  combination.  Take  1 ounce  of  fluid 
extract  of  dandelion,  60  grains  of  potassa  iodide,  1 ounce  of  fluid  extract  of 
yellow  dock,  1 ounce  of  fluid  extract  of  burdock,  1 ounce  of  fluid  extract  of 
wahoo  and  1 ounce  of  fluid  extract  of  red  clover.  The  dose  is  a teaspoonful 
4 times  a day.  Dandelion  may  be  taken  as  a tea,  the  dried  roots  may  be 
eaten  or  the  plant  may  be  eaten  in  the  form  of  greens  for  either  liver  or  bowel 
difficulties. 

DWARF  ELDER. 

(Aralia  Hispida.) 

Action. — Emetic,  Purgative. 

Uses. — Dropsy,  Suppressed  LIrine,  Gravel. 

It  rises  2 or  3 feet  in  height,  is  herb-like,  erect  and  prickly.  The  leaves 
are  opposite,  pinnated  and  composed  of  4 or  5 pairs  with  an  odd  one  at  the 
extremity.  The  flowers  are  terminal,  umbelliferous  in  scattered  shafts.  The 
fruit  is  round,  black  and  disagreeable  to  the  taste.  It  is  a single-celled  berry 
containing  3 irregularly  shaped  seeds.  This  plant  grows  in  hemlock  lands 
in  the  United  States.  The  inner  bark  of  the  root  is  the  part  used. 

One  gill  of  the  juice  of  the  inner  bark  will  vomit  and  physic.  The  juice, 
infusion  or  decoction  is  good  for  dropsy.  For  common  use  2 ounces  of  the 
dried  root  may  be  boiled  in  a quart  of  water  and  a gill  taken  night  and  morn- 
ing. Or,  1 ounce  of  the  inner  bark  and  1 ounce  of  the  dry  root  may  be  put 
into  3 quarts  of  water  and  boiled  down  to  2 quarts.  A teaspoonful  of  this 
taken  3 times  a day  is  good  for  suppression  of  urine.  This  is  also  good  for 


324 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


dropsy  and  gravel.  In  making  the  decoction  of  the  fresh  roots,  use  1 ounce 
of  the  roots  to  a pint  of  water  and  take  from  2 to  4 ounces,  3 times  a day. 

ELDER. 

Sweet  Elder— Elder  Flowers — Black-berried  Elder — (Sambucus  Canadensis). 

Action. — Diuretic,  Alterative,  Purgative,  Diaphoretic,  Expectorant, 
Sudorific,  Aperient,  Emetic. 

Uses. — Sores,  Erysipelas,  Liver  Troubles,  Blood  Remedy,  Dropsy, 
Measles,  Kidney  Troubles,  Inflamed  Eyes,  Piles. 

This  is  a very  common  shrub  growing  from  8 to  10  feet  high  and  is 
found  in  all  parts  of  the  United  States.  Leaves  are  dark  green.  Flowers  are 
white  and  in  clusters.  The  berries  are  dark  purple  and  are  good  for  piles  and 
the  urine.  The  young  leaves  and  buds  are  too  active  for  use.  The  inner 
bark,  berries  and  flowers  are  used.  The  inner  bark  boiled  with  cream  makes 
a splendid  salve  for  sores  and  erysipelas.  A warm  tea  made  of  elder  flowers 
will  gently  stimulate  and  produce  sweating.  Elder  flower  tea  is  also  good 
for  weak  or  inflamed  eyes  when  applied  locally.  A cold  tea  acts  as  a di- 
uretic, alterative  and  cooler  of  the  blood  and  may  be  used  for  liver  troubles 
of  children.  In  infusion  with  maiden  hair  and  beech  drops  it  is  useful 
for  erysipelas.  An  infusion  of  the  inner  bark  in  wine,  or  pressed  juice 
in  doses  of  from  % to  1 ounce  will  purge.  In  teaspoonful  doses  it  is  good  for 
dropsy,  etc.  Hot  elder  flower  tea  made  by  using  an  ounce  of  the  flowers  to 
a pint  of  boiling  water  is  very  good  to  bring  out  the  eruption  of  measles. 
The  juice  of  the  root  in  one  ounce  doses  daily  acts  as  a watery  cathartic  and 
diuretic  (kidney  worker)  and  is  good  in  dropsical  affections. 

ELECAMPANE. 

(Inula  Helenium.) 

Action. — Tonic,  Stimulant. 

Uses. — Dyspepsia,  Chronic  Bronchitis,  Catarrh  of  Bladder,  Suppressed 
Menstruation,  Skin  Eruptions,  Lung  Diseases,  Sciatica,  Gout,  Gravel,  Facial 
IMeuralgia. 

A common  plant  growing  by  the  roadsides  and  in  meadows.  Its  large, 
fibrous  root  is  brown  outside  and  white  inside.  The  stem,  which  grows 
from  6 to  8 feet  high,  is  branched  toward  the  top  and  covered  with  a whitish 
down.  The  flowers  are  located  at  the  ends  of  the  branches  and  are  yellow 
in  color.  The  root  has  a spicy  smell  and  contains  a camphorated  oil. 

This  was  a famous  medicine  of  early  times  and  was  used  for  lung  dis- 
eases and  externally  it  was  used  for  gout,  gravel,  sciatica  and  facial  neuralgia. 
It  is  now  used  for  chronic  eruptions  of  the  skin,  chronic  bronchitis,  catarrh 
of  the  bladder,  suppressed  menstruation  and  dyspepsia.  It  is  made  into  a 
decoction  by  boiling  from  % to  1 ounce  of  the  crushed  root  in  a pint  of  water. 

ELM. 

Slippery  Elm — Red  Elm — (Ulmus  Fulva). 

Action. — Soothing,  Mucilaginous. 

Uses. — Coughs,  Colds,  Influenza,  Pleurisy,  Quinsy,  Dysentery,  Painful 
Urination,  Inflammation  of  Stomach  and  Bowels,  Poisoning,  Erysipelas,  Burns, 
Scalds,  Piles,  Bruises,  Ulcers,  Gonorrhea,  Gleet,  Whites,  Diarrhea,  Poultices, 
“ Going  Down  ” of  Mumps. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


325 


Found  in  all  parts  of  the  United  States.  It  is  mostly  prepared  as  a fine 
flour,  a large  teaspoonful  of  which  may  be  briskly  stirred  into  a pint  of  cold 
water  and  this  again  stirred  into  a quart  of  hot  water  and  then  boiled.  This 
may  be  drank  freely.  It  is  very  good  for  coughs,  colds,  influenza,  pleurisy, 
quinsy,  dysentery,  and  painful  urination.  It  is  also  good  for  inflammation 
of  the  stomach  and  bowels  and  especially  after  poisoning  when  mild  mucilag- 
inous drinks  are  required.  When  used  for  the  latter  purpose  it  should  be 
drank  cold.  The  bark  may  also  be  chewed.  Poultices  of  ground  elm  bark 
with  lead  water  are  good  for  erysipelas  and  local  inflammations  and  may 
be  used  either  hot  or  cold. 

In  making  mucilage  of  elm  use  6 parts  of  dried  bark  to  100  parts  of 
boiling  water  and  drink  freely.  This  is  good  as  a bland  drink  after  poison- 
ing. Used  alone  as  a poultice,  slippery  elm  has  been  found  very  good  for  in- 
flamed surfaces,  fresh  wounds,  burns,  scalds,  bruises  and  ulcers.  This  is 
also  very  good  when  mumps  go  down  to  the  testicles.  The  poultice  should 
be  changed  every  2 to  4 hours.  Injections  of  slippery  elm  tea  made  from 
the  bark  is  good  for  diarrhea,  whites,  piles,  gonorrhea  and  gleet.  Powdered 
bark  sprinkled  over  the  surface  will  prevent  chafing  and  it  allays  itching  and 
heat  in  erysipelas.  Make  the  tea  of  the  bark  by  using  2 ounces  of  the  bark 
to  a pint  of  boiling  water.  This  may  be  drank  freely. 

FALSE  UNICORN  ROOT. 

(Blazing  Star.) 

Action. — Tonic. 

Uses. — Prevention  of  Miscarriages,  Dyspepsia,  Loss  of  Appetite,  Weak- 
ness of  Generative  Organs,  Leucorrhea,  Amenorrhea,  Dysmenorrhea. 

The  root  is  perennial,  large  and  bulbous  and  from  it  arises  a simple,  very 
smooth  and  somewhat  angular  stem  from  1 to  2 feet  high.  The  root  is  from 
1 to  2 inches  long  and  of  a dry,  dark  color.  The  root  and  leaves  are  green 
all  winter  and  spread  upon  the  ground  in  the  shape  of  a star.  The  root  ends 
as  if  it  were  bitten  off.  The  leaves  are  acute  and  small  and  at  some  distance 
from  each  other.  Radical  leaves  are  broader  and  from  4 to  8 inches  long, 
Y2  to  1 inch  in  width,  narrow  at  the  base  and  formed  into  a sort  of  whorl  at 
the  base.  The  flowers  are  small,  very  numerous  and  of  a greenish  white. 
There  are  many  seeds  in  each  cell.  Plant  is  indigenous  to  the  United  States 
and  is  abundant  in  some  of  the  western  states.  It  grows  in  woodlands, 
meadows,  etc.,  and  flowers  in  Tune  and  July.  It  is  somewhat  similar  to  aletris 
but  its  leaves  are  .sharply  pointed  and  it  has  a straight  slender  spike  of  scat- 
tered flowers.  The  root  is  the  part  used. 

It  is  a tonic  and  was  much  used  by  the  Indian  women  to  prevent  miscar- 
riages. It  is  good  for  weakness  of  the  generative  organs.  From  1 to  15 
grains  of  the  powder  taken  3 or  4 times  a day  is  good  for  dyspepsia,  loss  of 
appetite  and  for  diseases  of  women.  It  is  good  for  leucorrhea,  amenorrhea, 
dysmenorrhea  and  to  prevent  miscarriage.  The  decoction  is  made  by  using  1 
ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  water  and  the  dose  is  from  1 to  3 ounces.  The 
dose  of  the  powder  is  from  10  to  20  grains. 

FENNEL. 

(Anethum  Foeniculum.) 

Action. — Carminative.  Aromatic. 

Uses. — Dyspepsia,  Flatulent  Colic. 


32G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


This  is  raised  in  gardens.  It  blossoms  in  June  and  July  and  ripens  its 
fruit  in  September.  It  is  good  for  dyspepsia  and  flatulent  colic  of  children. 

. Can  be  given  freely.  The  seeds  can  be  given  in  from  i/4  to  1 teaspoonful  doses 
but  it  is  better  when  boiled  or  steeped.  For  the  tea  use  1 ounce  to  a pint  of 
water.  The  dose  of  the  tea  is  from  V4  to  1 teaspoonful  3 or  4 times  a day. 

FIRE  WEED. 

Colt’s  Tail — Mare’s  Tail — Canada  Fleabane — (Erigeron  Canadense). 

Action. — Diuretic,  Tonic,  Astringent. 

Uses. — Bleeding,  Profuse  Menses,  Metrorrhagia,  Dysentery,  Piles,  Pain  in 
Back,  Bruises,  Sprains,  Boils,  Sore  Throat. 

It  is  most  frequently  found  in  partly  cultivated  fields  in  Canada  and  the 
northern  part  of  the  U.  S.  It  grows  about  3 feet  high  and  is  covered  with 
stiflf  hairs  and  has  bushy  tops  with  very  small  flowers  which  grow  in  long  clus- 
ters at  the  ends  of  the  stems.  It  should  be  gathered  in  July  or  August.  The 
decoction  or  infusion  can  be  used  but  it  loses  much  of  its  strength  in  this 
form.  It  is  better  to  buy  the  oil  of  fire  weed.  Its  power  of  controlling 
bleeding  is  very  great.  It  is  good  for  metrorrhagia,  or  bleeding  from  the 
womb,  and  menorrhagia,  or  too  free  menses.  Take  from  5 to  8 drops  at  a 
dose,  on  sugar  or  in  capsule,  every  1 to  3 hours  for  bleeding  as  above  and 
also  for  dysentery  and  nose  bleed.  Apply  locally  for  pain  in  the  back  and 
also  for  piles.  It  is  good  for  bruises,  sprains  and  wounds  generally.  Is  used  in 
liniments.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  1 ounce  to  a pint  of  boiling  water  and  the 
dose  is  from  2 to  4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  The  oil  is  very  good  when  ap- 
plied to  piles,  boils,  sore  throat  and  to  small  wounds  to  stop  bleeding.  Com- 
bine with  goose  grease.  Internally  give  from  5 to  8 drops  on  sugar  for  diar- 
rhea, dysentery  and  bleeding  from  the  kidneys.  Good  also  for  womb  bleeding. 
Can  repeat  every  5 to  10  minutes  for  4 doses. 

FOXGLOVE— (Poison). 

Digitalis — Purple  Foxglove — Fairy’s  Glove — (Digitalis  Purpurea). 

Action. — Narcotic,  Sedative,  Diuretic. 

Uses. — Inflammation  of  Lungs,  Pleurisy,  Dropsy  of  Chest,  Inflammatory 
Affections,  Heart  Disease. 

The  stem  grows  2 or  3 feet  high  and  is  straight  and  hairy.  The  leaves 
are  whitish,  large,  oval  and  hairy  on  both  sides.  The  flowers  are  of  a deep 
reddish  purple  color. 

It  is  a poison  and  narcotic  and  should  only  be  administered  by  one  who 
understands  its  action.  It  is  a valuable  remedy  for  heart  troubles,  dropsy  of 
the  chest,  pleurisy,  inflammation  of  the  lungs  and  all  inflammatory  troubles. 

GARLIC. 

(Allium  Sativum.) 

Action. — Antiseptic,  Expectorant. 

Uses. — Coughs.  Colds,  Croup,  Chronic  Bronchitis,  Capillary  Bronchitis, 
Retention  of  Urine,  Convulsions,  Pneumonia. 

Garlic  is  well  known  by  its  strong  disagreeable  odor  and  its  taste  which 
is  stronger  than  onion. 

It  is  an  anti'ieptic  and  stimulating  expectorant.  It  is  good  for  coughs  and 
colds.  A poultice  of  garlic  is  good  for  croup.  It  is  very  good  in  chronic 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


327 


bronchitis  and  in  capillary  bronchitis  of  children.  For  these  purposes  it 
may  be  used  as  an  ingredient  in  poultices.  Garlic  is  generally  used  in  syrup 
form.  The  dose  is  from  1/6  to  1 teaspoonful.  The  following  is  a good  com- 
bination for  bronchitis  of  children.  Take  2 ounces  of  syrup  of  garlic,  1 
ounce  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  and  1 ounce  of  glycerine.  The  dose  is  from 

1 to  2 teaspoonfuls  in  water  every  2 or  3 hours.  Another  good  preparation 
is  made  by  mixing  3 ounces  of  syrup  of  garlic  with  2 ounces  of  syrup  of  tar. 
A teaspoonful  or  two  may  be  taken  in  water  every  2 or  3 hours. 

The  bruised  bulbs  applied  as  a poultice  over  the  bladder  is  good  for  re- 
tention of  urine.  Applied  to  the  front  of  the  chest  it  is  good  for  pneumonia  of 
infants.  Applied  to  the  feet  it  is  fine  for  convulsions  of  children.  The  dose  of 
the  fresh  juice  of  the  bulb  is  from  V2  to  1 teaspoonful.  If  used  too  freely  it 
causes  headache,  flatulence,  stomach  disturbance,  piles  and  fever. 

GENTIAN. 

(Gentiana  Americana.) 

Action. — Cathartic,  Sudorific,  Tonic,  Antiseptic,  Febrifuge,  Stomachic. 

Uses. — Stomach  Troubles,  Constipation.  ‘ ' 

This  plant  is  a native  of  Europe  though  it  is  found  in  the  U.  S.  It  rises 

2 or  3 feet  in  height;  the  stem  is  smooth,  strong  and  erect;  the  leaves  which 
arise  from  the  lower  part  of  the  stem  are  pear  shaped,  large,  ribbed  and  rough, 
while  those  from  the  upper  part  are  more  ovate,  smooth  and  sissile.  Large 
yellow  flowers,  produced  in  whorls,  grow  along  the  stalks.  It  is  perennial  and 
grows  along  roadsides.  The  root  is  the  best  part  to  use. 

Its  action  is  not  astringent  but  it  is  a bitter  tonic  and  antiseptic.  In  large 
doses  it  is  cathartic  and  sudorific.  It  invigorates  the  stomach  and  is  very  useful 
in  debility  of  the  digestive  organs.  It  increases  the  appetite,  prevents  the 
souring  of  foods  and  aids  in  the  digestion  of  solid  food.  In  combination  it  is 
good  as  a tonic,.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  2 ounces  of  the  root  to  a pint  of 
boiling  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  The  follow- 
ing is  a good  compound  Take  2 ounces  each  of  tincture  of  gentian  and 
tincture  of  cinchona  compound  and  2V2  drams  of  tincture  of  nux  vomica. 
Shake  well  and  give  a teaspoonful  before  or  after  meals.  The  dose  of  the  fluid 
extract  of  gentian  is  from  30  to  60  drops  and  of  the  compound  tincture,  from 
1 to  4 drams. 


GINGER. 

(Zingiber  Officinale.) 

Action. — Diaphoretic,  Stimulant,  Condiment,  Carminative. 

Uses. — Colds,  Bilious  Attacks,  Diarrhea,  Dysentery,  Flatulent  Colic, 
Cholera  Morbus. 

This  is  a very  good  household  remedy.  It  is  excellent  for  colds  and 
bilious  attacks  and  when  the  stornach  and  bowels  need  warming.  When  hot 
and  strong  it  is  good  for  sweating.  Good  for  diarrhea,  dysentery,  flatulent  or 
wind  colic,  cholera  morbus,  biliousness,  colds  and  coughs.  To  make  the  tea 
add  Y2  ounce  of  powdered  or  bruised  ginger  to  a pint  of  boiling  water.  The 
dose  is  from  1 to  2 fluid  ounces.  The  do=e  of  tincture  of  ginger  is  from  10 
drops  to  a teaspoonful.  A larger  dose  may  be  taken  if  it  is  to  be  taken  but 
once.  For  a child  with  colic  or  diarrhea  give  from  1 to  4 drops  every  2 hours. 
It  is  also  used  for  external  application.  A snice  poultice  is  excellent  for  pain 
in  the  bowels.  This  is  made  by  taking  equal  parts  of  ground  ginger,  cinna- 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


32il 

mon,  cloves  and  allspice.  One-fourth  part  of  cayenne  pepper  may  be  added  if 
needed.  Place  all  in  a flannel  bag,  spread  evenly,  wet  with  alcohol  or  whiskey 
and  apply  to  the  affected  parts.  Re-wet,  if  necessary,  to  keep  it  moist. 

GINSENG. 

Red  Berry — Ninsin — Five  Fingers — (Panax  Quinquefolium). 

Action. — Nervine,  Tonic,  Restorative,  Stimulant. 

Uses. — Debility,  Stomach  Troubles,  Gravel,  Weak  Generative  Organs. 

Ginseng  grows  about  a foot  high.  There  are  5 leaves  to  a main  stem. 
It  has  small  white  flowers  which  are  followed  by  red  berries.  The  root  is 
white  and  fleshy.  The  root  may  be  tinctured  in  old  Jamaica  spirits  and  taken 
3 times  a day  on  an  empty  stomach.  Good  for  pain  in  the  bones  from  colds, 
debility,  weakness  from  excessive  venery,  gravel  and  is  a good  restorative.  It 
improves  the  appetite,  strengthens  the  stomach  and  invigorates  the  system. 
The  powdered  root  may  be  taken  in  teaspoonful  doses  or  the  decoction  may  be 
taken  in  teacupful  doses  several  times  a day  as  a nervine  or  tonic.  A tea  may 
also  be  made  of  the  leaves.  The  Chinese  use  much  ginseng  and  it  is  culti- 
vated in  gardens. 

GOLDEN  ROD. 

Sweet  Scented  Golden  Rod — (Solidago  Odora). 

Action. — Stimulant,  Carminative,  Aromatic. 

Uses. — Nausea,  Pain  in  Stomach  and  Bowels. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  golden  rod  but  the  flowers  and  leaves  of  the  kind 
used  as  a medicine  taste  somewhat  like  fennel  or  anise.  It  is  called  sweet 
scented  golden  rod.  The  tea  should  not  be  boiled.  Given  freely  while  warm 
it  is  good  for  nausea  or  sickness  at  the  stomach  and  for  pain  in  the  stomach  and 
bowels  which  is  caused  by  gas. 

GOLDEN  SEAL. 

Yellow  Puccoon — Orange  Root — (Hydrastis  Canadensis). 

Action. — Tonic,  Alterative,  Laxative. 

Uses. — Dyspepsia,  Loss  of  Appetite,  Sore  Mouthy  Inflammation  of  Vagina, 
Leucorrhea,  Gleet,  Chronic  Gonorrhea,  Ulcers,  Sore  Throat,  Inflammation  of 
Bladder. 

The  root  is  perennial,  crooked,  wrinkled,  rough  and  of  a bright  yellow  color 
with  many  long  fibres.  The  stem  is  round,  simple,  straight  and  grows  from 
8 to  14  inches  high.  It  commonly  bears  2 rough  leaves  at  the  top,  somewhat 
resembling  the  leaves  of  the  sugar  maple  tree,  in  the  center  of  which  appears 
the  flower  which  is  followed  by  a fleshy,  red  and  many  seeded  berry. 

It  acts  especially  upon  the  mucous  surfaces.  It  is  a powerful  and  valu- 
able bitter  tonic  which  is  good  for  weakness  and  loss  of  appetite.  It  is  very 
good  when  combined  with  other  tonics.  It  is  good  after  recovery  from  fevers, 
for  dyspepsia  and  for  sore  month.  For  the  later  stages  of  gonorrhea  use  the 
fluid  extract  of  hydrastis  as  an  injection.  As  an  injection  use  1/2  dpni  of  fl. 
ext.  to  V2  pint  of  water.  Also  good  for  inflammation  of  the  vaginia  and  for 
leucorrhea.  It  stains  clothing.  In  full  strength  or  diluted  it  is  good  for  sore 
mouth  and  sore  throat.  In  small  doses  of  from  1 to  2 grains  of  the  powder 
taken  after  meals  it  is  good  for  dyspepsia.  It  is  used  externally  for  sloughing 
ulcers  and  sores.  Combined  with  cransbill  it  very  good  for  diarrhea.  A decoc- 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


339 


tion  made  by  using  3 parts  of  golden  seal  and  1 part  of  cranesbill  is  very  good 
for  gleet,  chronic  "gonorrhea  and  whites.  It  is  very  good  as  an  injection  for 
cystitis  or  inflainination  of  the  bladder.  For  this  it  should  be  used  as  a decoc- 
tion with  1 ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  boiling  water.  Should  be  used  twice 
a day.  Sweetened  with  honey  and  used  as  a gargle  or  wash  it  is  very  good  for 
ulcered  sore  mouth  and  throat.  The  dose  oi  the  powder  is  from  1 to  10  grains; 
of  the  tincture,  from  1 to  3 teaspconfuls ; of  the  fluid  extract  from  1 to  5 
grains ; of  the  tea  from  Vj  to  3 ounces,  3 or  4 times  a day. 

HARD  HACK. 

Meado'w  Sweet-Steeple  Bush — White  Leaf — (Spiraea  Tormentosa). 

Action. — Tonic,  Astringent. 

Uses. — Diarrhea,  Cholera  Infantum,  Female  Troubles,  Loss  of  Appetite, 
Bleeding  from  Lungs. 

This  is  a small  shrub  from  3 to  4 feet  high  with  many  simple,  erect,  round, 
downy,  hard,  brittle  and  purplish  stems,  furnished  with  alternate  leaves  which 
are  dark  green  or  brownish  above  and  covered  with  a rusty  white  beneath. 
The  flowers  are  small,  very  numerous,  red  or  purple,  and  grow  at  the  end  of 
the  stems  in  an  irregular  cluster.  Grows  commonly  on  low  grounds  and  in 
meadows  in  most  parts  of  the  U.  S.  Flowers  in  July  and  August.  The  fruit 
is  persistent,  remaining  throughout  the  winter  and  furnishing  food  for  the 
snow  bird. 

It  is  a tonic  and  astringent  and  useful  in  diarrhea  and  cholera  infantum 
As  a tonic  it  may  be  used  in  debility  where  there  is  want  of  appetite.  The 
Osage  Indians  chewed  the  dried  roots  and  stems  and  drank  a cold  tea  of  the 
plant  for  hemorrhage  of  the  lungs.  The  Indian  women  used  the  infusion  as 
a wash  for  female  troubles.  The  decoction  is  made  by  using  1 ounce  to  a pint 
of  water  and  the  dose  is  from  1 to  3 fluid  ounces. 

HEMLOCK  TREE. 

Hemlock  Spruce — (Pinus  Canadensis). 

Uses. — Falling  of  Womb,  Rheumatism,  Lumbago,  Sciatica,  Piles,  Leucor- 
rhea,  Pharyngitis,  Menstrual  Diseases. 

The  tree  grows  in  Canada  and  the  northern  part  of  the  U.  S.  and  attains 
a height  of  70  or  80  feet.  A decoction  made  of  the  bark  is  an  excellent  wash 
for  falling  of  the  womb.  Oil  of  hemlock  is  valuable  externally  for  rheuma- 
tism, lumbago  and  sciatica.  It  should  never  be  taken  internally.  The  decoc- 
tion is  excellent  for  piles,  leucorrhea  and  pharyngitis.  The  dilute  tincture  is 
good  for  menstrual  diseases  and  is  applied  locally  for  piles.  The  decoction, 
3 ounces  of  bark  to  a quart  of  boiling  water,  should  be  used  externally  only. 
It  should  boil  a long  or  short  time  depending  upon  the  strength  desired. 

HENBANE— (Poison). 

Black  Henbane — Fetid  Nightshade — Poison  Tobacco — (Hyoscyamus  Niger). 

Action. — Narcotic,  Anodyne,  Soporific. 

Uses. — Fistulas,  Boils,  Ulcers,  Swellings  of  Breasts,  Tumors,  Inflamed 
Eyes. 

Cultivated  for  use  as  a medicine.  Grows  3 or  3 feet  high.  The  flowers 
are  funnel  shaped  and  of  a dingy  yellow  with  .streaks  of  a bright  purple  color. 
It^  is  a very  poisonous  narcotic  and  often  causes  death  by  being  taken  by 
mistake. 


380 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Externally  it  may  be  applied  as  a poultice  or  cloths  may  be  wrun^  out  of 
the  hot  decoction.  Thus  applied  it  is  good  for  all  kinds  of  painful  inflamma- 
tions, such  as  swellings  of  the  breasts,  boils,  fistulas,  scrofulous  ulcers,  tumors, 
inflamed  eyes  and  cramps  in  the  bowels.  Internally  it  acts  the  same  as  bella- 
donna and  should  be  used  with  caution. 

HIGH  CRANBERRY. 

Cramp  Bark — (Viburnum  Opulus). 

Action. — Tonic,  Anti-spasmodic. 

Uses. — Cramps. 

This  grows  in  swamps  and  rich  low  lands  in  Canada  and  the  northern 
part  of  the  U.  S.  The  leaves  resemble  a goose’s  foot.  The  flowers  are  white 
and  in  clusters.  The  berries  resemble  common  cranberry  and  remain  during 
the  winter.  They  make  a good  drink.  The  bark  of  the  root  is  a tonic  and 
good  for  cramps.  For  the  decoction  use  an  ounce  of  the  bark  of  the  root  to  a 
pint  of  water  and  give  2 ounces  2 or  3 times  a day.  The  tincture  is  made  with 
1 ounce  of  pulverized  bark  mixed  with  a quart  of  wine.  The  dose  is  a wine- 
glassful  twice  a day.  The  decoction  of  the  root  taken  freely  is  good  for  cramp 
in  any  part  of  the  body  and  especially  during  pregnancy.  The  following  com- 
bination is  good.  Take  2 ounces  of  cramp  bark,  1 ounce  of  skullcap,  1 ounce 
of  skunk  cabbage,  Vo  ounce  of  cloves  and  2 teaspoonfuls  of  capsicum.  Coarsely 
bruise  and  add  2 quarts  of  good  sherry  or  native  wine  and  take  from  1 to  2 
ounces  2 or  3 times  a day. 

HOLLYHOCK. 

(Althaea  Rosea.) 

Uses. — Leucorrhea,  Inflammation  of  Mucous  Surfaces. 

Plant  is  well  known.  A tea  made  of  the  flowers  may  be  drank  freely 
and  is  fine  for  leucorrhea.  It  is  also  used  for  inflammations  of  the  mucous 
surfaces,  such  as  the  lining  of  the  stomach,  bowels,  throat  and  urinary 
passages. 

HOPS. 

(Humulus  Lupulus.) 

Action. — Tonic,  Narcotic,  Sedative,  Appetizer. 

Uses. — Earache,  Pleurisy,  Toothache,  Nervousness,  Sleeplessness,  Indi- 
gestion, Swellings,  Rheumatism,  Appendicitis,  Inflammations. 

Hops  are  a very  good  appetizer  and  nerve  quieter  and  are  a good  tonic 
during  convalescence  from  acute  diseases  like  fever.  They  are  good  for  feeble 
digestion  and  are  a good  nerve  sedative.  They  can  be  used  as  a tea  or  a 
tincture.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  a handful  of  hops  to  a quart  of  water. 
The  dose  of  the  tea  is  from  2 to  5 ounces.  The  smaller  dose  is  to  be  taken 
as  a tonic  and  the  larger  as  a sedative.  For  nervousness  take  1 or  2 ounces 
of  the  tea  3 times  a day.  For  general  infusions  use  from  1 to  4 teaspoonfuls 
of  hops  to  a pint  of  water.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  1 to  2 teaspoon- 
fuls 3 or  4 times  a day.  They  are  used  externally  as  a fomentation  for  ear- 
ache and  pleurisy:  or,  they  can  be  placed  in  a flannel,  moistened  with  hot 
whiskey  and  applied  to  the  painful  parts.  For  earache  and  toothache  it  is 
best  to  use  the  fomentation  beeause  of  the  warmth  and  steam. 

In  deliruim  tremens,  bon  tea  with  red  pepper  quiets  the  craving  for  drink 
and  settles  the  stomach.  The  following  combinations  are  good  for  nervousness. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


331 


Take  3 fluid  drams  of  tincture  of  hops,  2 fluid  drams  of  tincture  of  capsicum 
and  2 fluid  drams  of  glycerine.  Give  a teaspoonful  every  hour  or  two.  For 
sleeplessness,  and  nervousness,  mix  2 ounces  each  of  tincture  of  hops,  tincture 
of  ammonia,  valerian  and  spirit  of  nitrosi  aetheris.  Give  2 tablespoonfuls  in 
water  every  hour  or  two. 

Fomentations  of  hops  are  best  when  made  with  water  and  vinegar.  When 
hot  they  are  splendid  for  swellings,  pleurisy,  rheumatism,  appendicitis  and 
wherever  anything  hot  and  moist  is  required. 

HOREHOUND. 

White  Horehound — (Marrubium  Vulgare). 

Action. — Tonic,  Laxative. 

Uses. — Coughs,  Colds,  Lung  Troubles. 

Grows  along  fences  and  roadsides  and  to  the  height  of  about  a foot.  The 
leaves  are  deeply  notched,  wrinkled  and  are  in  pairs  on  long,  thick  foot-stalks. 
Plant  has  an  odor  somewhat  like  musk.  Flowers  are  white. 

Horehound  is  generally  given  as  a tea  or  a syrup.  It  is  splendid  for 
coughs,  colds  and  lung  troubles.  Horehound  candy  is  good  for  troublesome 
coughs. 

HORSE  CHESTNUT. 

(.ffisculus  Hippocastanum.) 

Uses. — Piles,  Catarrh,  Rheumatism,  Gangrene,  Intermittent  Fever. 

This  tree  is  commonly  known.  A decoction  made  of  the  bark  is  good  for 
gangrene  when  used  as  a wash.  A decoction  made  of  the  nuts  is  good  for 
rheumatism  and  piles.  For  local  application  an  ointment  may  be  made  by 
mixing  the  powdered  nuts  with  lard  and  this  is  a fine  remedy  for  piles.  A 
pinch  of  the  powdered  nuts  or  root,  when  snuffed  up  the  nostrils  every  night, 
's  good  for  catarrh.  A decoction  made  of  the  bark  is  good  for  intermittent 
fever.  Use  iVo  ounces  of  the  bark  to  a pint  of  water,  in  making  the  decoction, 
and  take  a wineglassful  3 times  a day.  The  dose  of  the  powder  is  from  % 
to  1/2  teaspoonful  every  4 hours. 

HORSE-RADISH. 

(Cochlearia  Armoracia.) 

Action. — Powerful  Stimulant. 

Uses. — Neuralgia,  Rheumatism,  Dropsy. 

The  tea  is  made  by  using  V2  to  1 ounce  of  the  root  to  a quart  of  water.  The 
warm  tea  is  very  valuable  for  neuralgia,  rheumatism  and  dropsy.  Horse- 
radish may  be  used  externally  like  mustard. 

INDIAN  TURNIP. 

Wild  Turnip — Wake  Robin — Dragon  Root — Jack  in  the  Pulpit — (Arum 

Triphyllum). 

Action. — Expectorant,  Stimulant. 

Uses. — Coughs,  Colds,  Flatulence,  Stomach  Cramp,  Asthma,  Consump- 
tion, Rheumatic  Pains,  Weakness. 

It  has  a tuberous  root  which  sends  up  in  the  soring  a sheath-like  leaf 
which  is  flattened  and  bent  at  the  top  like  a hood.  The  sheath  has  within  it 
a fleshy  spike  of  different  colored  flowers,  round  at  the  top  and  surrounded  at 
the  base  by  stamens.  Later  comes  a bunch  of  scarlet  berries.  Indian  turnip 


332 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


grows  in  swamps,  along  ditches  and  in  shady  places.  The  root  is  the  only  part 
used.  It  is  acrid,  pungent  and  even  caustic  to  the  tongue.  The  fresh  roots 
are  too  caustic  to  be  used  internally.  The  roots  must  be  dried  very  quickly 
or  buried  in  sand  or  earth  as  they  lose  their  virtue  when  exposed.  They  must 
be  used  in  substance  with  milk,  honey  or  molasses  as  liquor  does  not  get  their 
strength.  Or,  the  fresh  root  may  be  grated  or  reduced  to  a pulp  with  three 
times  its  weight  of  sugar.  This  may  be  taken  3 times  a day  for  colds,  coughs, 
etc.  Prepared  in  this  way  it  is  also  very  good  for  flatulence,  cramp  in  stomach, 
asthma  and  consumption.  Good  for  weakness,  great  prostration  in  typhoid, 
deep  seated  rheumatic  pains  and  pains  in  the  breast.  The  dose  is  from  10  to 
15  grains. 


IRONWOOD. 

(Astrya  Virginica.) 

Uses. — Dyspepsia,  Scrofula,  Neuralgic  Affections,  Intermittent  Fever. 

This  tree  grows  from  10  to  40  feet  high.  The  heart  of  the  tree  is  very  hard 
and  is  the  part  used  as  medicine.  A tea  made  from  the  chips  of  the  tree  is 
good  for  dyspepsia,  scrofula,  neuralgic  affections  and  intermittent  fever.  If 
the  fluid  extract  is  used  the  dose  is  from  % to  1 teaspoonful  before  each  meal. 

JUNIPER. 

(Juniperus  Communis.) 

Action. — Stimulant,  Diuretic. 

Uses. — Dropsy,  Urinary  Troubles. 

Juniper  grows  in  the  U.  S.  and  Europe  and  attains  a height  of  about  four 
feet.  The  leaves  are  long,  sharp  pointed,  of  a dark  green  color  and  stand  three 
together  without  foot  stalks.  It  flowers  in  June.  The  fruit  consists  of  berries 
which  contain  2 or  3 small  seeds.  The  berries  are  ripe  in  August  of  the  second 
year  after  the  flower.  To  make  the  tea  use  1 ounce  of  bruised  berries  to  a pint 
of  boiling  water.  Take  during  24  hours.  This  is  good  for  dropsy  of  Bright’s 
disease  and  general  dropsy.  An  overdose  produces  pain  and  suppression  of 
urine.  One-half  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar  added  to  1 pint  of  the  tea  of  the 
bruised  berries  has  a good  effect.  The  following  combination  is  also  very 
good.  Take  6 drams  of  acetate  of  potash,  IV2  ounces  of  compound  spirits  of 
juniper  berry  and  4%  ounces  of  infusion  of  broom  tops.  Mix,  and  take  a 
tablespoonful  3 or  4 times  a day  to  increase  the  flow  of  urine.  In  making  the 
infusion  of  the  berries  alone  take  1 ounce  of  berries  to  a pint  of  water.  The 
dose  of  this  is  from  2 to  4 ounces,  3 or  4 times  a day.  The  dose  of  the  fluid 
extract  is  from  Y?  to  1 dram  and  of  the  spirits,  from  1 dram  to  1 ounce.  This 
remedy  is  good  for  urinary  troubles,  alone  or  in  combination.  It  increases 
the  flow  of  urine  and  renders  it  milder. 

LADY’S  SLIPPER. 

Valerian — Nerve  Root — Moccasin  Flower — Yellow  Umbel — (Cypridedium). 

Action. — Nervine,  Anti-spasmodic,  Narcotic. 

Uses. — Nervousness,  Hysteria,  Spasms,  Fits,  Sleeplessness,  Nervous 
Headache. 

This  plant  grows  from  1 to  2 feet  high  and  has  from  3 to  7 leaves.  It  is 
a native  of  Europe  and  cultivated  in  the  U.  S.  The  shape  of  the  flower  is  a 
singular,  hollow,  basr-like  form,  open  at  the  too,  and  compared  by  some  to  a 
moccasin.  The  Indians  called  it  “ moccasin  flower.” 


HERB  DEPARTxMENT. 


333 


It  is  a nervine  and  gives  tone  to  the  nen^ous  system.  It  is  good  for 
nervous  irritation,  hysteria,  spasms,  fits,  sleeplessness,  nervous  headache  and 
all  other  forms  of  nervousness.  The  roots  are  the  only  part  used.  They 
should  be  gathered  in  the  spring  before  the  tops  begin  to  grow  much  or  in  the 
fall  after  they  begin  to  die.  Carefully  separate  after  digging,  wash  clean  and 
dry  in  the  sun  or  in  a dry  airy  room ; then  pack  them  away  in  a dry  box  or 
powder  them  and  bottle  for  use.  The  dose  of  the  powdered  root  is  from  V2  to 
1 teaspoonful.  The  decoction  is  made  by  using  1 ounce  of  the  root  to  a quart 
of  boiling  water.  The  dose  of  the  decoction  is  from  % to  1 ounce  and  may  be 
repeated  as  often  as  necessary.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  1 to  2 tea- 
spoonfuls. 

The  following  combination  is  good.  Mix  1 ounce  each  of  tincture  of  com- 
mon valerian,  tincture  of  hops  and  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  and  take  2 teaspoon- 
fuls in  water  every  hour  or  two  for  sick  or  nervous  headache  which  is  not 
caused  by  a--  acid  stomach.  Take  72  ounce  each  of  powdered  catnip,  skullcap 
and  yellow  .,dy’s  slipper;  pour  on  a pint  of  boiling  water  and  infuse  for  15  or 
20  minutes.  The  dose  is  1 fluid  ounce  of  the  warm  infusion  at  once,  after  which 
V2  ounce  should  be  taken  every  half  hour  for  3 or  4 hours  or  until  the  headache 
ceases.  Use  this  for  3 or  4 attacks  of  headache  and  a permanent  cure  is  often 
effected. 

LAUREL. 

Mountain  Laurel- — Spoon-wood— Lambkill — Calico  Bush — (Kalmia 
Latifolia) — (Poison). 

Uses. — Ringworm,  Itch,  Skin  Diseases,  Catarrh. 

Laurel  is  a shrub  and  grows  from  4 to  10  feet  high.  The  leaves  have  a 
bitter  taste  and  are  evergreen.  They  are  of  an  oval  lance  shape  and  pointed 
at  both  ends.  This  shrub  has  beautiful  rose  colored  flowers  which  are  some- 
what the  shape  of  a cup.  It  is  found  growing  on  hills  and  mountains.  The 
fresh  wood  is  soft  but  when  dry  it  is  very  hard. 

Used  externally.  For  ringworm  and  similar  eruptions  an  ointment  is  made 
of  the^  powdered  leaves  and  lard.  For  itch  and  other  skin  diseases,  a good 
wash  is  made  of  the  decoction.  For  catarrh,  the  powdered  leaves  are  used  as 
a snuff.  It  is  a powerful  and  dangerous  medicine  when  taken  internally. 

LEMON. 

(Citrus  Limonum.) 

Action. — Diaphoretic,  Antiscorbutic,  Stomachic. 

Uses. — Colds,  Scurvy,  Stomach  Troubles,  Tan,  Etc. 

The  lemon  is  a native  of  Asia.  Small  doses  of  the  Juice  have  a stimulating 
effect  upon  the  stomach  and  aid  digestion.  An  excellent  drink  for  allaying 
thirst  is  made  by  using  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  a pint  of  water  and  sweeten- 
ing with  sugar.  Hot  lemonade  is  valuable  for  producing  sweating  and  break- 
ing up  colds.  Lemons  are  one  of  the  best  remedies  known  for  scurv3^  By 
some  they  are  used  for  rheumatism  and  malarial  fevers.  As  a wash  the  juice 
is  good  for  removing  tan  from  the  face  and  hands. 

LETTUCE. 

(Lactuca  Sativa.) 

Action. — Sedative,  Nervine. 

Uses. — Sleeplessness,  Nervous  Diseases,  Allaying  Pain  of  Rheumatism 
and  Colic,  Coughs,  Diarrhea. 


334 


THE  PEOPLE^S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


When  used  as  a diet,  lettuce  will  be  found  of  value  in  the  treatment  of 
many  nervous  complaints.  It  is  a sedative  in  its  action  and  is  conducive  to 
sleep.  It  contains  a milky  juice  which  has  an  odor  and  taste  which  is  somewhat 
like  opium.  Lettuce  is  good  for  allaying  the  pain  of  colic  and  of  chronic  rheu- 
matism and  is  also  good  for  coughs  and  diarrhea.  Lactucarium  is  a prepara- 
tion made  from  the  juice  and  the  dose  is  from  3 to  5 grains.  ' 

LILY  OF  THE  VALLEY. 

(Convallaria  Majalis.) 

Action. — Errhine,  Cathartic. 

Uses. — Palpitation,  Heart  Troubles,  Urinary  Diseases,  Dropsy,  Bright’s 
Disease. 

Its  root  is  about  the  size  of  a quill.  The  flowers  are  the  part  used.  They 
are  bell  shaped,  six  lobed,  and  possess  a fragrant  odor  and  a bitter  acid  taste. 

In  small  doses  it  strengthens  the  heart  action.  The  larger  doses  lessen  the 
activity  of  the  heart.  It  relieves  palpitation  and  difflcult  breathing,  increases 
the  flow  of  urine,  reduces  dropsy  and  is  good  for  chronic  Bright’s  disease.  The 
following  is  a good  combination  for  general  dropsy  from  heart  and  kidney 
disease.  Take  IV2  drams  of  fluid  extract. of  lily  of  the  valley,  I/2  ounce  of 
bitartrate  of  potash  and  enough  simple  syrup  tc  make  4 ounces.  Take  a table- 
spoonful 3 or  4 times  a day.  For  valvular  insufliciency  and  functional  heart 
disease  the  following  will  be  found  good.  Mix  2 drams  of  fluid  extract  of  lily 
of  the  valley  with  enough  syrup  of  orange  peel  to  make  2 ounces  and  take 
from  a teaspoonful  to  a tablespoonful  3 times  a day.  In  making  a tea  of  the 
flowers  use  one  part  of  the  flowers  to  3 parts  of  water  and  take  from  ^ to  3 
ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

LIVERWORT. 

Noble  Liverwort — Liver  Leaf — (Hepatica  Triloba). 

Action. — Demulcent,  Tonic. 

Uses. — Liver  Troubles,  Indigestion. 

The  leaves  of  liverwort  live  through  the  winter  and  they  resemble  clover 
leaves.  The  flowers  appear  very  early  in  the  season  and  are  small  and  white. 
They  droop  at  first  but  spread  out  as  they  unfold. 

The  plant  is  used  a great  deal  for  liver  complaints  and  indigestion.  It 
is  given  as  a tea,  either  warm  or  cold,  and  may  be  drank  freely. 

LOBELIA. 

Indian  Tobacco — ^Wild  Tobacco — Poke  Weed — Emetic  Herb — Asthma 
Weed — (Lobelia  Inflata). 

Action. — Emetic,  Diaphoretic,  Expectorant. 

Uses, — Asthma,  Stings,  Spasms. 

This  plant  grows  in  abundance  by  the  road  and  in  stubble  fields.  The 
first  year  it  throws  out  a few  roundish  leaves  and  the  next  year  it  produces  the 
stem,  branches  and  seeds.  It  has  an  erect,  hairy  stem  with  blue  flowers  in  the 
axils  of  the  leaves.  The  capsule  out  of  which  the  flower  grows  contains  two 
cells  and  is  very  full  of  small  black  seeds.  A powder  is  made  of  the  seeds. 
In  making  lobelia  tea  use  an  ounce  of  the  leaves,  seeds  and  pods  to  a pint  oi 
water.  'The  dose  of  this  for  asthma  is  from  1 to  2 teaspoonfuls  every  10  min- 
utes until  the  patient  is  sick  at  the  stomach.  The  dose  of  the  powder  is  from 
1 to  5 grains ; 10  to  20  grains  act  as  an  emetic.  The  dose  of  the  tincture 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


335 


10  drops  every  10  minutes,  for  asthma,  and  should  be  continued  until  a little 
nausea  is  produced.  For  emetic  action  it  is  too  severe.  Only  enough  should 
be  given  to  produce  sickness  at  the  stomach.  This  is  a very  active  remedy  and 
should  be  given  carefully.  Poultices  of  powdered  lobelia  and  slippery  elm 
bark  with  weak  lye  water  are  very  good  for  bites  and  stings  of  poisonous 
insects,  spasms  and  pains  of  the  limbs,  and  to  produce  muscular  relaxation. 

MANDRAKE. 

May  Apple — Indian  Apple — (Podophyllum  Peltatum). 

Action. — Cathartic,  Alterative,  Cholagogue. 

Uses. — Constipation,  Jaundice,  Dyspepsia,  Liver  and  Bowel  Troubles, 
Sick  Headache. 

This  plant  grows  in  the  U.  S.  and  Canada.  It  branches  into  2 stems,  each 
bearing  on  its  top  two  large  umbrella-like  leaves.  The  flowers  are  yellowish 
and  produce  a large  fruit  which  is  called  yellow  may  apple  and  is  somewhat 
like  a lime  in  appearance.  It  grows  on  uplands  and  in  meadows  and  woods. 
The  root  is  sometimes  as  large  as  the  little  finger. 

It  is  good  for  constipation.  As  a cathartic,  give  from  5 to  20  grains  of  the 
powdered  root.  It  is  slow  in  action.  In  chronic  cases,  as  an  alterative,  give 
from  1 to  3 grains  twice  a day.  The  dose  of  mandrake  bought  in  drug  stores 
is  from  % to  1 grain  and  should  be  given  at  n’ght.  It  is  also  good  in  jaundice 
and  dyspepsia  which  are  dependent  upon  a deficient  secretion  of  the  liver  and 
bowel  glands.  For  these  use  small  doses ; 1 grain  of  the  powdered  root  or 
1/2  grain  of  the  resin  3 or  4 times  a day.  This  remedy  relieves  sick  headache 
which  is  associated  with  loose  and  dark  colored  stools.  The  dose  of  the  resin 
is  Vs  grain  night  and  morning;  of  the  powder,  1 grain  every  2 hours  for  a 
few  days ; and  of  the  fluid  extract,  from  1 to  30  drops. 

MARIGOLD. 

(Calendula  Officinalis.) 

Uses. — Cuts,  Wounds,  Sprains, 

It  is  hard  to  make  an  infusion  from  this  plant  and  it  is  better  to  get  the 
medicine  from  a homeopathic  pharmacy. 

It  is  the  best  remedy  known  for  cuts  and  wounds  in  either  man  or  beast. 
It  may  be  applied  full  strength  after  first  thoroughly  cleansing  the  wound. 
Saturate  clean  linen  cloth,  put  on  the  cut  and  tie.  Re-dress  as  necessary.  It  is 
good  in  combination  with  arnica  for  sprains  but  is  better  for  cuts  and  torn 
wounds.  Every  family  should  keep  calendula  water  and  tincture  in  the  home. 
An  infusion  may  be  made  by  using  about  2 ounces  of  the  leaves  and  flowers  to 
a pint  of  boiling  water.  This  is  for  external  use  only. 

MARSHMALLOW. 

Mortification  Root — (Althaea  Officinalis). 

Action. — Demulcent. 

Uses. — Mortification,  Inflammatory  Swellings,  Cankered  Mouth,  Sore 
Throat,  Hoarseness,  Catarrh,  Gonorrhea,  Bladder  Troubles. 

Grows  in  the  U,  S.  along  the  banks  of  rivers  and  in  marshy  places.  Has 
smooth,  downy,  heart  shaped  leaves  and  large,  single,  light  rose  colored 
flowers  with  beautiful  tracery  of  a bluish  color. 

It  is  used  to  prevent  mortification  (gangrene)  when  threatened.  It  is  also 


336 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


applied  to  inflammatory  swellings.  Bruise  the  root  after  it  is  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  boil  in  milk.  Slippery  elm  may  be  added  if  desired.  Apply  warm 
and  renew  often.  For  the  infusion  use  from  I/2  to  1 ounce  of  the  root  to  a 
quart  of  water  and  boil  down  to  a pint.  It  is  good  when  applied  locally  for 
cankered  mouth  and  as  a gargle  for  sore  throat.  The  syrup  is  good  for  coughs 
when  used  freely.  It  is  also  good  for  hoarseness,  catarrh,  gonorrhea  and  irri- 
tated bladder  with  painful  urination.  It  is  also  used  externally  as  a poultice. 

MILK  WEED. 

Silk  Weed — (Asclepias  Cornuti). 

Uses, — Dropsy,  Catarrh,  Rheumatism,  Sores,  Gravel,  Retention  of  Urine, 
Coughs,  Asthma,  Scrofula. 

Bears  purplish-white  flowers  in  July  and  August.  Gives  out  a milky  juice 
when  bruised.  This  is  a well  known  plant  which  is  very  common  in  the  U.  S. 
It  is  valuable  for  dropsy,  catarrh,  rheumatism  and  sores.  For  the  decoction, 
boil  from  4 to  8 ounces  of  the  dried  root  in  6 quarts  of  rain  water.  Take  from 
2 to  4 ounces  at  a dose  4 times  a day  for  dropsy  and  rheumatic  affections. 

When  the  green  plant  is  bruised  and  applied  locally  it  is  good  for  sores 
and  ulcers.  The  roots  put  into  gin  may  be  used  for  dropsy  and  gravel.  Good 
for  retention  of  urine,  coughs,  asthma,  scrofula  and  rheumatism.  The  dose 
of  the  powder  is  from  10  to  20  grains ; of  the  decoction,  from  2 to  4 ounces  and 
of  the  tincture,  from  10  to  60  drops. 

MOTHERWORT. 

(Leonurus  Cardiaca.) 

Action. — Anti-spasmodic,  Diaphoretic. 

Uses.— -Menstrual  troubles.  Hysteria,  Sweating. 

This  valuable  plant  grows  in  the  U.  S.  and  has  a strong,  hard,  square, 
brownish  stalk  from  2 to  4 feet  high  which  spreads  into  many  branches.  The 
leaves  are  broad  and  long  and  notched  about  the  edge  and  there  are  two  at 
each  joint.  From  the  middle  of  the  branches  to  the  tops  the  flowers  grow 
round  about  them  in  sharp,  pointed,  rough,  prickly  husks  or  burrs  of  a red  or 
purple  color.  Grows  in  fields  and  pastures  and  flowers  from  May  to  September. 

It  is  an  excellent  anti-spasmodic  and  is  good  for  monthly  sickness  and  as 
a cordial  for  sweating.  The  dose  of  the  powder  is  a tablespoonful.  The  tea  is 
made  by  using  2 ounces  to  a quart  of  water  and  it  may  be  drank  freely  and 
often.  The  decoction  should  be  boiled  from  a quart  down  to  a pint.  The 
dose  of  the  decoction  is  from  1 to  2 tablespoonfuls  every  1 to  3 hours.  It  is 
used  for  menstrual  troubles  where  there  is  much  pain.  Also  used  for  hysteria 
and  for  sweating. 

MULLEIN. 

(Verbascum  Thapsus.) 

Action.— Emollient. 

Uses. — Earache,  Diarrhea,  Painful  Urination,  Piles,  Scalds,  Wounds, 
Sprains,  Swellings,  Ulcers,  Lumps,  Sore  Throat,  Tonsilitis,  Mumps,  Sore  Eyes. 

The  warm  oil  is  splendid  for  earache.  Drop  into  the  ear  and  insert  cotton. 
The  tea  is  made  by  boiling  4 ounces  of  fresh,  or  6 ounces  of  dry  leaves,  in  a pint 
of  fresh  milk  for  10  minutes.  Drink  this  quantity  3 times  a day  for  coughs, 
dysentery  or  piles.  Also  good  for  diarrhea  and  painful  passing  of  urine.  Good 
wash  for  piles  and  scalds  and  for  wounds  in  cattle.  A poultice  of  the  pulp  and 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


33Y 


leaves  is  good  for  sprains  and  swellings.  The  leaves  boiled  in  vinegar  and 
water  are  good  for  sores  and  ulcers.  Weak  mullein  tea  is  good  for  weak 
and  sore  eyes.  Fomentations  of  the  leaves  are  good  for  external  piles,  ulcers 
and  lumps.  The  leaves  infused  in  hot  vinegar  or  water  are  very  good  when 
applied  to  the  throat  for  sore  throat,  tonsilitis  and  mumps.  The  flowers  placed 
in  a tightly  corked  bottle  and  exposed  to  the  sun’s  action  are  said  to  yield  a 
fine  relaxing  oil. 

MUSTARD. 

White  Mustard  and  Black  Mustard — (Sinapis  Nigra  and  Sinapis  Alba). 

Action. — Emetic,  Irritant,  .Stimulant,  Epispastic,  Rubefacient. 

Uses. — Liver  and  Stomach  Troubles,  Neuralgia,  Headache,  Sleeplessness, 
Amenorrhea,  Lumbago,  Colic,  Croup,  Sciatica. 

This  is  a warm  stimulating  medicine  when  something  is  needed' to  liven 
the  stomach.  A poultice  made  with  mustard  alone  or  with  horseradish  leaves 
mixed  with  vinegar,  bread  crumbs  and  white  of  eggs,  makes  a fine  application 
for  neuralgia.  Do  not  let  it  stay  on  long  enough  to  blister  but  just  to  redden 
the  parts.  This  is  good  whenever  it  is  desired  to  draw  the  blood  to  the  surface 
or  away  from  the  congested  parts  as  in  convulsions  and  lung  troubles.  This 
is  also  especially  good  on  the  back  of  the  neck  for  headache  and  neuralgia. 
Never  put  it  on  the  feet,  or  at  least  not  for  a very  long  time  or  you  will  have 
a long  resting  spell  as  you  will  be  unable  to  walk.  Mustard  may  be  used  in 
water,  though,  as  a foot  bath  when  it  is  desired  to  draw  the  blood  from  the 
brain  in  case  of  sleeplessness,  amenorrhea  or  headache.  A handful  of  ground 
mustard  is  the  amount  to  be  added  to  the  bath.  Poultices  and  plasters  should 
remain  on  from  10  to  15  minutes  only.  Mustard  water  is  used  as  an  emetic  for 
poisoning.  Mustard  leaves  may  be  bought  at  the  drug  store  and  are  splendid 
for  neuralgia,  headache,  lumbago,  colic,  croup,  sciatica,  etc.  Dampen  them 
with  cold  water  before  applying.  They  are  better  than  the  poultice  and  should 
be  kept  on  for  from  5 to  10  minutes.  The  dose  of  mustard  as  an  emetic  is 
from  1 to  3 teaspoonfuls  in  6 to  8 ounces  of  warm  water.  Mustard  applied 
locally  is  good  for  pains  almost  anywhere. 

NETTLE. 

Great  Stinging  Nettle — (Urtica  Dioica) — (Urtica  Hispida). 

Action. — Astringent,  Tonic,  Diuretic. 

Uses. — Diarrhea,  Dysentery,  Piles,  Scurvy,  Gravel,  Kidney  Troubles, 
Bowel  Troubles,  Bleeding. 

Use  the  roots  or  leaves.  The  plant  is  a dull  green  and  armed  with  very 
small  rigid  hairs  or  prickles.  The  stem  is  from  2 to  4 feet  high.  The  flowers 
are  green  and  in  branching,  clustered,  axillary,  interrupted  spikes.  The  plant 
is  common  in  Europe  and  the  U.  S.  It  grows  in  waste  places  and  flowers  from 
June  to  September.  A decoction  of  the  plant,  made  by  using  1 ounce  of  the 
plant  to  a pint  of  water,  when  strongly  salted,  will  coagulate  milk  as  readily 
as  rennet  without  imparting  to  it  any  unpleasant  flavor. 

It  is  astringent,  tonic  and  diuretic.  It  is  valuable  in  diarrhea,  dysentery, 
piles,  scurvy  and  in  gravel  and  other  kidney  troubles.  A strong  syrup  of  the 
root  of  the  nettle  combined  with  wild  cherry  and  blackberry  root  is  excellent 
for  all  summer  complaints  of  children  and  bowel  affections  of  grown  people. 
The  leaves,  when  applied  to  bleeding  surfaces,  are  good  to  stop  the  flow  of 
blood.  The  dose  of  the  powdered  root  or  leaves  is  from  20  to  40  grains  and 
of  the  decoction,  from  2 to  4 fluid  ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

22 


338 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


ONION. 

(Allium  Cepa.) 

Action. — Expectorant,  Sedative,  Stimulant,  Diuretic,  Rubefacient. 

Uses. — Croup,  Laryngitis,  Earache,  Coughs,  Bronchitis,  Eczema,  Inflam- 
mations. 

The  action  of  onion  as  an  expectorant  is  similar  to  the  action  of  garlic 
but  onions  are  not  so  strong  and  are  pleasanter  to  take.  They  are  also  used 
as  poultices.  In  large  doses  they  cause  stomach  uneasiness  and  flatulence. 
When  used  as  a poultice  they  are  very  fine  for  croup,  laryngitis  and  earache. 
Added  to  sugar  and  water  they  are  good  as  a cough  syrup.  Boiled  Spanish 
onion  eaten  at  night  is  an  excellent  laxative.  Raw  onion  applied  locally  is 
very  good  for  inflammations  and  especially  if  a little  salt  is  added.  Onion 
syrup  is  good  for  chronic  bronchitis.  For  chronic  eczema  the  following  is 
good.  Take  equal  parts  of  syrup  of  Spanish  onion  and  syr.  phosphate  com- 
pound. Give  1 or  2 teaspoonfuls  in  water  or  milk  3 or  4 times  a day.  Milk 
helps  to  take  away  the  smell  after  eating. 

PARSLEY. 

Rock  Parsely — (Petroselinum). 

Action. — Diuretic,  Aperient. 

Uses. — Female  Troubles,  Urinary  Troubles,  Gonorrhea,  Dropsy,  Vermin, 
Swollen  Breasts,  Enlarged  -Glands,  Bruises,  Bites  and  Stings. 

This  is  a very  common  plant,  about  2 feet  high  and  bearing  small  yellow 
flowers.  A poultice  is  made  from  the  bruised  leaves.  The  fresh  root  is  best 
for  the  tea.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  an  ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  water 
and  the  dose  is  from  I/2  to  2 ounces  taken  hot.  It  is  good  for  amenorrhea,  or 
no  menses,  and  dysmenorrhea,  or  painful  menses.  It  is  also  good  as  a diuretic 
in  dropsy,  retention  of  urine  and  painful  urination  and  is  also  good  for  gonor- 
rhea. The  dose  is  W ounce  every  2 to  4 hours.  It  is  good  for  dropsy  follow- 
ing scarlet  fever  and  other  eruptive  diseases.  The  seeds  and  leaves  sprinkled 
on  the  hair  will  destroy  vermin.  Fomentations  of  the  leaves  are  applied  for 
bites  and  stings  of  insects.  The  bruised  leaves  are  good  for  bruises,  swollen 
breasts  and  enlarged  glands.  The  dose  of  the  oil  as  a diuretic  is  5 drops  3 or 
4 times  a day.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  an  ounce  of  parsley  to  a pint  of 
water.  The  dose  is  from  2 to  4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

PARTRIDGE  BERRY. 

Squaw  Wine — Checker  Berry — Winter  Clover. 

Action. — Tonic,  Alterative. 

Uses. — Womb  Troubles,  Painful  Labor,  Sore  Nipples,  Dropsy,  Sup- 
pression of  Urine,  Diarrhea. 

This  is  an  indigenous  evergreen  herb  with  a perennial  root  from  which 
arises  a smooth  and  creeping  stem.  The  stem  is  furnished  with  rounded,  ovate, 
or  slightly  heart  shaped,  dark  green,  shining  leaves  usually  variegated  with 
whitish  lines.  It  is  somewhat  like  clover  and  bears  one  flower  and  one  white- 
winged red  berry  in  a place.  It  is  indigenous  to  the  U.  S.,  growing  in  dry 
woods  among  hemlock  timber  and  in  swampy  places.  Flowers  in  June  and 
July.  The  whole  plant  is  used. 

The  Indian  women  drank  a tea  made  of  this  plant  for  weeks  before  labor 
to  make  it  easier.  It  seems  to  have  a special  action  on  the  womb.  Tonic  and 
alterative.  A strong  decoction  is  made  by  using  2 ounces  of  the  plant  to  a 


K - > 

‘ 1 'J'V-r  {*~ 


J 


I- 


. r 


! ,.  . 
./  V.'. 


- 


I 


■ ■*)' 


r 


• f 


I 


1 

1^/ 


' I 


COMMON  HERBS  USED  AS  MEDICINES. 


Liverwort  or  Hepatica. 

Used  for  Liver  Troubles.  Indi- 
gestion, etc. 


Black  Cohosh  or  Squaw  Root. 

Used  for  Female  Troubles,  x\sth- 
ma.  Nervous  Excitement,  Epilepsy, 
Convulsions,  Whooping  Cough, 
Rheumatism,  etc. 


Pennyroyal. 

Used  for  Suppressed  Menses, 
Whooping  Cough.  Colds,  Colic, 
etc. 


Beth  Root  or  Nodding  Wake-Robin. 

Used  for  Female  Troubles,  Diar- 
rhea, Dysentery,  Tumors,  Ulcers, 
Carbuncles,  Bleeding,  etc. 


Lobelia  or  Indian  Tobacco. 

Used  for  Asthma,  Stings,  Spasms, 
and  as  an  Emetic  for  Croup,  etc. 


Poison  Hemlock. 

Used  for  Rheumatism,  Lumbago, 
Sciatica,  Piles,  Sore  ddiroat.  Leu- 
corrhea,  h'alling  of  Womb  and 
Menstrual  Troubles. 


HERB  CEPARTMENT. 


339 


pint  of  water.  The  dose  is  2 or  3 ounces  2 or  3 times  a day.  It  is  also  good 
for  dropsy,  suppression  of  urine  and  diarrhea.  For  sore  nipples  take  2 ounces 
of  the  herb,  fresh  if  possible,  and  make  a strong  decoction  with  a pint  of  boil- 
ing water.  Strain  and  add  as  much  cream  as  there  is  liquid  in  the  decoction 
and  boil  the  whole  down  to  the  consistency  of  a soft  salve  and  when  cool 
anoint  the  nipples  after  each  nursing. 

PEACH  TREE. 

(Amygdalus  Persica.) — (Prunus  Persica.) 

Action. — Tonic,  Vermifuge,  Laxative,  Sedative. 

Uses. — Constipation,  Worms,  Urinary  Troubles,  Debility,  Leucorrhea. 

The  dried  fruit  stewed  with  sugar  is  good  for  constipation.  A cordial  or 
tincture  may  be  made  of  peach  pits.  It  is  a tonic  and  is  also  good  for  worms. 
Take  a handful  of  the  leaves  and  blossoms  or  the  blossoms  alone,  steep  in  1 
pint  of  boiling  water  and  give  freely  and  repeatedly  in  small  doses  of  from 
to  1/2  teaspoonfuls  and  follow  with  a purge.  This  usually  brings  the  worms 
away  from  children.  It  is  also  good  for  urinary  obstructions.  Peach  pits 
tinctured  in  brandy  in  the  proportion  of  4 ounces  of  pits  to  a quart  of  brandy 
form  a powerful  tonic  in  all  cases  of  debility.  It  is  also  good  for  leucorrhea. 
The  dose  is  a teaspoonful  3 times  a day. 

PENNYROYAL. 

(Hedeoma  Pulegioides.) 

Action. — Carminative,  Resolvent^  Anti-spasmodic,  Emmenagogue,  Dia- 
• phoretic.  Expectorant.  » 

Uses. — Female  Complaints,  Whooping  Cough,  Colds,  Colic. 

Has  small,  fibrous,  yellowish,  annual  root ; upright  stem  with  slender 
erect  branches;  leaves,  small,  rough  and  oblong  and  pale  beneath;  and  small, 
white  flowers,  with  purple  edges,  along  branches. 

Its  action  is  carminative,  resolvent,  chest  sweater,  anti-spasmodic  and 
stimulant  to  the  menses.  It  is  very  good  for  female  complaints  such  as  sup- 
pressed menses,  hysterics,  etc.  It  is  then  given  as  a sweetened  hot  tea  and 
fomentations  are  used  over  the  womb.  It  promotes  expectoration  in  whoop- 
ing cough  and  it  is  good  for  pains  in  the  hips  and  few  menses.  Good  for  colds 
and  colic  in  children  and  warms  the  stomach  and  causes  sweating.  Make  a 
strong  hot  tea  and  take  it  frequently.  Do  not  use  oil  of  pennyroyal  as  it  is 
dangerous  when  used  to  bring  on  the  menses.  Pennyroyal  is  a protection 
against  mosquitoes.  Place  the  fresh  herbs  around  the  room  and  bathe  the 
hands  and  face  with  the  tea. 

PEPPERMINT. 

(Mentha  Piperita.) 

Action. — Carminative.  Aromatic,  Stimulant. 

Uses. — Nausea  and  Vomiting,  Hysterics,  Colic. 

Very  com.mon  in  wet  lands.  It  is  hot  and  pungent  and  the  strongest  of 
all  mints.  Has  a well-known  odor. 

It  is  useful  to  check  nausea  and  vomiting,  to  relieve  hysterics  and  to 
prevent  the  griping  effects  of  cathartics.  Much  used  for  colic  in  children. 
Bruised  and  applied  externally  to  the  stomachs  of  children  it  is  good  to 
allay  sickness  and  vomiting.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  an  ounce  of  the 
herb  to  a quart  of  boiling  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 dram  to  1 ounce  and  may 


340 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


be  taken  frequently.  The  dose  of  essence  for  an  adult  is  from  5 to  60  drops 
in  hot  sweetened  water.  The  dose  of  oil  of  peppermint  is  from  1 to  5 drops 
in  hot  water. 

PINK  ROOT. 

(Spigelia.) 

Action. — V ermifuge. 

Uses. — Worms. 

This  is  good  in  combination  with  senna  for  round  worms.  (Pink  and 
Senna.)  The  following  combination  is  also  good  for  worms.  Take  % ounce 
of  pink  root,  2 drams  of  senna,  2 drams  of  fennel  seed,  1 ounce  of  manna 
and  a pint  of  boiling  water.  The  dose  for  a child  is  from  1 to  2 tablespoonfuls 
and  for  an  adult  from  1 to  2 wineglassfuls.  The  dose  of  powdered  pink  root 
for  a 3-year-old  child  is  from  10  to  20  grains  and  the  dose  of  strong  pink  root 
tea  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  at  bed  time.  This  should  be  followed  in  the 
morning  by  a cathartic. 

PLANTAIN. 

Large  Plantain — Round  Leaved  Plantain — (Plantago  Major). 

Uses. — Bleeding,  Ivy  Poisoning,  Burns,  Scalds,  Bruises,  Erysipelas, 
Toothache ; Bites  of  Insects,  Spiders  and  Snakes. 

The  fresh  leaves  ground  to  a paste  in  a mortar  and  applied  to  wounds 
will  check  bleeding.  Good,  also,  for  ivy  poisoning,  burns,  scalds,  bruises 
and  even  erysipelas.  For  toothache  apply  the  bruised  leaves  of  the  cheek  and 
the  paste  to  the  tooth.  The  juice  taken  internally,  1 ounce  every  hour, 
and  also  applied  to  the  wound  is  good  for  bites  of  insects,  spiders  and  snakes. 

PLEURISY  ROOT. 

Butterfly  Weed — White  Root — Orange  Swallowwort — (Asclepias  Tuberosa). 

Action. — Diaphoretic,  Expectorant. 

Uses. — Pleurisy,  Colds,  Acute  Rheumatism,  Diarrhea,  Dysentery, 
Measles. 

Generally  grows  in  poor  soil.  The  root  is  large,  fleshy,  whitish,  and 
when  dried  is  brittle.  The  stems  are  round,  hairy  and  green  or  red.  The 
leaves  are  very  hairy  and  pale  beneath.  The  flowers  are  of  a bright  orange 
color.  The  seeds  are  in  the  long,  slender  pods  to  which  is  attached  a kind 
of  silk.  It  is  used  as  a tea  and  a powder.  The  dose  of  the  powder  is  from  i/4 
to  1/2  teaspoonful  3 times  a day. 

For  pleurisy,  use  the  tea.  It  is  made  with  1 ounce  of  root  to  a pint  of 
water.  The  regular  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces.  Give  % ounce  every  2 hours 
for  pleurisy,  colds  and  acute  rheumatism.  Good  as  a sweater  and  to  bring 
out  the  eruption  of  measles,  etc.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  % to  1 
dram.  Pleurisy  root  is  good  for  diarrhea  and  dysentery,  either  as  a tea  or 
tincture.  A good  combination  is  made  by  taking  2 ounces  of  pleurisy  root, 
1 ounce  of  brandy  and  3 ounces  of  syrup  of  raspberry.  The  dose  is  from  1 
to  4 drams  every  hour  or  two  for  diarrhea  and  dysentery. 

POKE  ROOT. 

Poke  Weed — Pigeon  Berry — Garget — Coakum— (Phytolacca  Decandra). 

Uses. — Caked  Breasts,  Abscess  of  Breasts,  Sore  Throat,  Tonsilitis, 
Chronic  Skin  Diseases,  Chronic  Rheumatism,  Syphilis. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


841 


This  plant  is  commonly  known.  Nearly  every  child  has  made  ink  of 
the  berries  and  a description  is  not  necessary.  The  root  should  be  gathered 
late  in  the  fall.  Put  the  leaves  into  boiling  water  to  extract  the  medicinal 
qualities.  Can  make  a tincture  of  this  and  the  root.  It  is  very  cheap  and 
it  is  best  to  buy  either  the  tincture  or  fluid  extract  for  external  use. 

It  is  excellent  for  caked  breasts.  Make  and  apply  a poultice  of  the  root 
and  it  is  wek  at  the  same  time  to  take  either  the  tincture  or  the  fluid  ex- 
tract internally.  The  dose  of  the  fluid  extract  is  2 drops  every  hour  or  two 
and  the  dose  of  the  tincture  is  5 drops  every  hour  or  two.  It  is  very  good 
for  sore  throat,  tonsilitis,  chronic  skin  diseases  and  abscess  of  the  breast. 
A tea  may  be  made  and  used  instead  of  the  tincture  or  fluid  extract.  In 
chronic  diseases  the  dose  of  the  fluid  extract  is  from  5 to  30  drops ; of  the  tinc- 
ture, from  10  to  60  drops  and  of  the  powder  from  1 to  5 grains.  These  doses 
should  be  taken  4 times  a day.  It  is  good  for  syphilis  and  chronic  rheumatism 
when  in  combination  with  other  blood  remedies  such  as  iodide  of  potash. 
Use  8 grains  of  iodide  of  potash  to  each  fluid  ounce  of  poke  root  syrup. 

PRICKLY  ASH. 

Yellow  Wood — Toothache  Tree — (Xanthoxylum  Fraxineum). 

Action. — Stimulant,  Tonic,  Alterative. 

Uses. — Chronic  Rheumatism,  Colic,  Syphilis,  Liver  Troubles,  Blood 
Diseases. 

Grows  from  10  to  12  feet  high.  The  branches  are  covered  with  prickles ; 
leaves  are  alternate  and  pinnate ; flowers  are  near  the  origin  of  the  young 
branches  and  are  small  and  greenish  and  appear  before  the  leaves  and  each 
fruitful  flower  is  followed  by  capsules.  The  capsules  are  oval  and  covered 
with  excavated  dots,  varying  from  green  to  red,  two  valved  and  one  seeded. 
The  seeds  are  oval  and  blackish.  Grows  in  Canada  and  the  United  States. 
Flowers  in  April  and  May. 

It  is  a stimulant,  tonic  and  alterative.  Useful  in  chronic  rheumatism, 
colic,  syphilis  and  liver  troubles.  Combined  with  blue  flag  and  mandrake, 
it  is  good  for  scrofulous,  syphilitic  and  other  blood  diseases  when  given  fre- 
quently and  in  small  doses.  The  dose  of  the  powder  is  from  5 to  10  grains 
a day.  ^ This  is  a very  good  blood  remedy  and  especially  when  in  combina- 
tion with  poke  root,  burdock,  red  clover,  blue  flag,  mandrake,  etc. 

PUMPKIN  SEED. 

(Pepo.) 

Uses. — Tape  Worms,  Suppression  of  Urine. 

For  tape  worms  eat  a lot  of  the  shelled  seeds  at  night.  Follow  in  the 
rnorning  with  rochelle  salts  and  castor  oil.  The  following  is  a good  combina- 
tion. Take  1 dram  of  oleoresin  aspidium,  10  drops  of  chloroform  and  12 
ounces  of  emulsion  of  pumpkin  seeds.  Divide  this  amount  into  2 doses 
to  be  taken  an  hour  apart  and  followed  by  rochelle  salts  an  hour  later. 
The  seeds  can  be  crushed  and  beaten  into  a paste  with  milk  and  sugar  and 
then  strained ; or,  water  and  milk  may  be  used.  Fast,  clean  out  the  bowels, 
and  then  take  at  night  and  follow  in  the  morning  with  castor  oil  or  rochelle 
salts.  Pumpkin  seeds  are  one  of  the  very  best  remedies  known  for  expelling 
tape  worms.  They  are  also  good  tor  suppression  of  the  urine.  Pumpkin 
?,eed  tea  is  very  good  for  either  children  or  adults.  Adults  can  eat  the  shelled 
^5eeds. 


342 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


QUEEN  OF  THE  MEADOW. 

Purple  Boneset — Joe  Pye  Weed — Gravel  Root — (Eupatorium  Purpureum). 

Action. — Resolvent,  Tonic,  Diuretic. 

Uses. — Gravel,  Stone  Colic,  Dropsical  Affections,  Urinary  Troubles. 

This  medicine  was  frequently  used  by  the  Indians  for  gravel  and  stone 
colic.  The  plant  is  herbaceous  with  a perennial,  horizontal,  woody  candex 
with  many  long,  dark  brown  fingers  which  send  up  one  or  more  solid,  green, 
sometimes  purplish,  stems,  5 to  6 feet  high  with  a purple  band  about  an  inch 
broad  at  their  joints.  The  leaves  are  feather  veined  and  from  3 to  6 in  a 
whorl  and  about  6 inches  apart.  They  are  from  8 to  10  inches  long  and  4 
to  5 inches  wide  and  are  thin.  The  flowers  are  purplish  white  with  purple 
stems.  Grows*  in  swamps  and  low  grounds  from  Canada  to  Virginia  and 
flowers  in  August  and  September.  The  root  is  the  part  used. 

It  is  slightly  tonic.  Splendid  in  dropsical  affections,  difficult  and  painful 
urination,  chronic  urinary  trouble,  gravel  and  stone  in  bladder,  stone  colic, 
etc.  For  the  decoction  use  an  ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  water.  The  dose 
is  from  2 to  4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  5 
to  20  drops.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy. 

QUEEN’S  DELIGHT. 

Queen’s  Root — Yaw  Root — (Stillingia). 

Action. — Emetic,  Cathartic,  Alterative. 

Uses. — Blood  Diseases,  Syphilis,  Scrofula,  Piles,  Liver  Troubles,  Jaun- 
dice, Constipation,  Dropsy. 

Usually  grows  in  dry  and  open  woods  in  Europe  and  the  United  States. 
Has  a large,  thick,  woody  root  and  a light-colored  stem  and  grows  from 
2 to  3 feet  high.  The  leaves  are  oblong,  taper  somewhat  at  both  ends  and 
are  bordered  with  very  small  teeth.  Bears  a spike  of  yellow  flowers.  Plant, 
when  broken,  discharges  a milky  juice. 

The  bark  of  the  fresh  root  is  a great  blood  remedy.  Is  good  for  syphilis, 
scrofula,  piles  and  liver  disorders  such  as  jaundice  and  constipation  from 
torpid  liver.  It  is  good  in  the  first  stages  of  hardened  liver  and  its  result, 
dropsy  of  the  bowel.  Good  in  combination  with  other  plants  and  iodide  of 
potash,  for  blood  diseases.  The  following  is  a good  combination.  Take  IV2 
ounces  of  tincture  of  stillingia,  1 ounce  of  poke  root,  1 dram  of  nux  vomica 
and  5 ounces  of  prickly  ash.  Give  2 teaspoonfuls  in  water  3 or  4 times  a day 
for  syphilis  and  scrofula.  For  the  decoction  use  1 ounce  to  a quart  of  boil- 
ing water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  In  decoction 
it  should  be  taken  for  a long  time  for  blood  diseases. 

ROOT  PARSLEY. 

(Apium  Petroselinum.) 

Action. — Diuretic.  Aperient. 

Uses. — Dropsy,  Kidney  Troubles.  Urinary  Troubles,  Gonorrhea,  Vermin, 
Bites  and  Stings,  Contusions,  Swelled  Breasts,  Enlarged  Glands. 

Native  of  Europe  but  is  cultivated  in  gardens.  The  whole  plant  has  an 
aromatic  odor  and  the  leaves  are  used  for  culinary  purposes.  Rises  about 
2 feet  and  bears  small  yellow  flowers.  The  root  is  the  best  and  should  be 
gathered  and  used  fresh. 

It  is  a diuretic  and  acts  upon  the  kidneys.  It  is  very  useful  in  dropsy 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


343 


following  scarlet  fever  and  other  eruptive  diseases.  It  is  also  good  for 
retention  of  water,  painful  urination  and  gonorrhea.  The  seeds  and  leaves 
powdered  and  sprinkled  on  the  hair,  or  used  as  an  ointment,  will  destrov 
vermin.  The  leaves  when  applied  as  a fomentation  aid  in  curing  bites  and 
stings  of  insects.  When  bruised  they  are  good  applied  to  contusions,  swelled 
breasts  and  enlarged  glands.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  1 ounce  to  a pint 
of  water.  The  dose  is  from  2 to  4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  The  seeds  are 
rather  poisonous. 

RED  CLOVER. 

(Trifolium  Pratense.) 

Uses. — Blood  Diseases,  Whooping  Cough,  Scrofula,  Syphilis,  Chronic 
Rheumatism,  Skin  Diseases,  Ulcers. 

A description  is  not  needed.  For  the  tea  use  a handful  of  clover  tops 
to  a pint  of  water  and  give  1 or  2 drams  at  a dose.  Taken  frequently  it  is 
good  for  whooping  cough.  Taken  alone  or  in  combination  it  is  also  good 
for  blood  diseases  such  as  scrofula,  syphilis,  chronic  rheumatism  and  skin 
diseases,  A syrup  is  also  made  and  used  internally.  May  be  taken  freely. 
Good  for  sores  and  ulcers  when  freely  applied.  Often  used  in  combination 
with  other  blood  remedies.  The  following  is  a good  plaster  for  ulcers.  Take 
4 pounds  of  red  clover  blossoms  and  1 pound  of  the  roots,  or  roots  and  tops,  of 
narrow  dock.  Boil  in  water  until  the  strength  is  out,  then  separate  the 
clover  and  dock  from  the  liquid,  carefully  pressing  out  all  the  juice,  and 
return  it  to  the  kettle  and  continue  the  boiling,  using  the  utmost  care  to 
prevent  burning,  until  reduced  to  a salve  or  paste. 

RHUBARB. 

(Rheum.) 

Action. — Astringent,  Cathartic,  Tonic. 

Uses. — Bowel  Complaints. 

Scorch,  or  rather  roast,  but  not  burn,  some  powdered  rhubarb  and  put 
1 ounce  into  a pint  of  brandy  or  blackberry  wine  with  enough  essence  of 
cinnamon  to  give  it  a good  flavor  and  then  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar.  A tea- 
spoonful or  more  for  children  is  a very  good  remedy  in  bowel  complaints. 
Spiced  syrup  of  rhubarb  is  also  an  excellent  remedy  for  bowel  troubles  in 
children  and  is  pleasant  to  take.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  4 teaspoonfuls. 

SAFT7RON. 

True  Saffron — Spanish  Saffron — (Crocus  Sativus). 

Action. — Stimulant,  Emmenagogue. 

Uses. — Chlorosis,  Hysteria,  Spasms,  Stomach  Troubles,  Eruptive  Dis- 
eases, Menstrual  Troubles. 

The  root  is  a small  bulb  upon  a larger  root  with  a great  number  of  fibres 
growing  from  the  base.  Four  or  five  grassy  leaves  about  5 inches  long  rise 
from  the  root  and  from  this  root  there  arises  a stalk  about  4 inches  high  bear- 
ing a single  flower  resembling  a crocus.  The  leaves  are  long,  grassy,  and  of 
a dark  green  color.  The  flowers  are  the  part  used. 

Saffron  tea  made  from  the  flowers  is  good  to  bring  out  the  eruption 
of  measles,  scarlet  fever  and  other  eruptive  diseases.  It  is  also  good  for  the 
pains  in  the  back  accompanying  menstruation.  Good  for  hysteria,  chlorosis 


344 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


and  to  increase  the  flow  of  urine.  Gives  tone  to  the  stomach  and  is  also 
good  for  spasms. 


SAGE. 

(Salvia.) 

Action. — Tonic,  Astringent,  Stimulant,  Condiment. 

Uses. — Summer  Complaints,  Worms,  Colds,  Sore  Mouth,  Sore  Throat, 
Night  Sweats. 

The  tea  is  made  by  using  from  4 to  8 ounces  of  sage  to  a pint  of  boiling 
water  and  the  dose  is  from  1 ounce  to  a wineglassful.  It  is  a tonic,  astrin- 
gent and  stimulant.  Good  for  summer  complaints  and  worms  in  children.  For 
colds  it  should  be  taken  hot  and  freely.  Good  for  checking  the  night  sweats 
of  tuberculosis.  The  following  is  the  combined  sage  gargle.  Take  4 ounces 
of  alum,  1 ounce  of  sage,  2 fluid  ounces  of  strained  honey  and  1 pint  of 
boiling  water.  It  is  used  locally  for  sore  mouth  or  it  may  be  diluted  with 
water  and  used  as  a gargle  for  sore  throat.  Sage,  honey  and  borax  is 
also  good  for  sore  mouth.  Sage  and  honey  are  good  for  sore  throat.  Make 
it  strong  enough  to  suit  the  taste.  Sage  tea  alone  is  good  as  a gargle  for 
sore  mouth  and  throat  or  it  may  be  combined  with  vinegar  and  pepper.  Use 
from  Y2  to  1 ounce  of  sage  to  a pint  of  vinegar  and  a pinch  of  pepper. 

SARSAPARILLA. 

(Aralia  Nudicaulis.) 

Action. — Stimulant,  Tonic,  Diaphoretic. 

Uses. — Chronic  Rheumatism,  Blood  Diseases,  Syphilis,  Scrofula,  Chronic 
Skin  Diseases. 

Found  in  abundance  along  the  Ohio  River.  The  best  is  imported  and 
can  be  bought  at  drug  stores.  The  root  is  the  part  used. 

It  is  good  for  chronic  rheumatism,  syphilis,  scrofula  and  chronic  skin 
diseases.  It  is  excellent  to  cleanse  the  blood.  It  is  especially  good  in  com- 
bination. The  following  is  the  compound  decoction  of  sarsaparilla.  Take  10 
parts  of  sarsaparilla,  2 parts  sassafras,  2 parts  guaiac  wood,  2 parts  of  licorice 
root,  1 part  of  leatherwood  and  83  parts  of  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to 
4 ounces.  It  is  also  good  in  combination  with  iodide  of  potash.  Take  % 
ounce  of  compound  syrup  of  iodide  of  potash,  3 ounces  of  syrup  of  sar- 
saparilla compound  and  3 ounces  of  distilled  water.  Give  i/4  ounce  in  a glass 
of  water  two  hours  after  meals  for  syphilitic  skin  affections. 

SASSAFRAS. 

(Laurus  Sassafras.) 

Action. — Mucilaginous,  Sudorific,  Stimulant,  Astringent,  Aromatic. 

Uses. — Rheumatism,  Kidney  Troubles,  Corrosive  Poisons,  Old  Sores, 
Inflammation  of  the  Eyes,  Eruptive  Diseases. 

The  wood,  root  and  bark  are  used.  Use  1 ounce  of  sassafras  to  a pint 
of  water  in  making  sassafras  tea.  The  dose  is  from  2 drams  tq  an  ounce. 
The  dose  of  oil  of  sassafras  is  from  1 to  4 drops.  The  tea  is  good  for  rheu- 
matism. It  should  be  used  hot  and  should  be  taken  for  a long  time.  Also 
good  for  kidney  troubles.  The  tea  is  a good  mucilaginous  or  soothing 
drink  to  be  used  after  corrosive  poisoning.  Use  2 parts  of  sassafras  to  100 
parts  of  water  and  drink  freely.  Take  the  pith  of  the  wood  and' make  a salve 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


345 


for  old  sores.  A good  wash  for  inflamed  eyes  is  also  made  from  the  pith. 
Hot  sassafras  tea  is  good  to  bring  out  the  eruption  of  eruptive  diseases. 

SCOURING  RUSH. 

Shave  Grass — Horse-tail — (Equisetum  Hyemale). 

Action. — Diuretic,  Astringent. 

Uses. — Dropsy,  Gravel,  Urinary  Troubles,  Kidney  Diseases,  Gonorrhea, 
Gleet,  Acid  Dyspepsia. 

This  is  a perennial  plant  with  simple,  stout,  erect,  jointed  and  hollow 
stems  growing  from  2 to  3 feet  high,  each  stem  bearing  a terminal  ovoid 
spike.  Frequently  2 or  more  stems  are  united  at  the  base  to  the  same  root. 
The  fruit  is  arranged  in  whorls.  From  4 to  7 spiral  filaments  surround  the 
spores,  which  resemble  green  globules,  and  roll  up  closely  around  them  when 
moist  and  uncoil  when  dry.  Grows  in  the  northern  and  western  parts  of 
the  United  States  on  wet  grounds  and  matures  in  June  and  July. 

It  is  diuretic  and  astringent.  The  tea  drank  freely  has  been  found 
useful  in  dropsy,  suppression  of  urine,  blood  in  urine,  gravel  and  kidney 
diseases.  It  is  also  good  for  gonorrhea  and  gleet.  The  ashes  of  the  plant 
are  good  for  acid  dyspepsia.  The  dose  of  pulverized  ashes  is  from  3 to  10 
grains  3 or  4 times  a day.  For  the  tea  use  an  ounce  to  a pint  of  water. 
The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

SENECA  SNAKE  ROOT. 

Milkwort — Mountain  Flax — (Polygala  Senega). 

Action. — Stimulant,  Diuretic,  Expectorant,  Emetic,  Purgative. 

Uses. — Snake  Bites,  Coughs,  Pleurisy,  Asthma,  Cramps,  Croup,  Female 
Obstructions. 

The  root  is  firm,  hard,  branching,  crooked  and  woody.  There  are  many 
stems  and  they  are  smooth  and  occasionally  tinged  with  red.  Grows  from 
8 to  12  inches  high.  The  leaves  are  numerous  and  alternate  or  scattered. 
They  are  long,  narrow  and  bright  green  on  the  upper  and  pale  on  the  under 
side.  The  flowers  are  white  and  in  a close  terminal  spike.  The  spike  opens 
gradually,  so  that  the  lower  ones  are  in  fruit  while  the  upper  ones  are  in 
bloom.  Grows  in  the  northern  parts  of  the  United  States  on  the  sides  of 
hills  and  in  dry  woods. 

Was  considered  by  the  Indians  an  antidote  for  snake  bites.  It  is  stimu- 
lant, diuretic,  expectorant,  emetic,  purgative.  Is  good  for  coughs,  pleurisy, 
asthma,  cramps,  and  female  obstructions.  It  is  used  as  a tea,  powder  or  syrup. 
The  dose  of  the  powdered  root  is  from  10  to  20  grains  every  3 hours.  For 
croup  of  children  use  a decoction  made  by  using  an  ounce  of  the  root  to 
a pint  of  boiling  water.  The  dose  is  a teaspoonful  every  half  hour  until  it 
acts  as  an  emetic  and  cathartic.  The  dose  of  the  tea  for  adults  is  from  % 
to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day  for  the  above  troubles. 

SENNA. 

Action. — Purgative. 

Uses. — Constipation. 

Senna  increases  the  action  of  the  bowels  and  causes  free  elimination. 
It  has  some  action  on  the  liver  also.  It  is  used  in  the  form  of  a tea  made 
from  the  leaves.  Senna  is  one  of  the  ingredients  of  Rocky  Mountain  Tea, 


346 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Lane’s  Tea,  Garfield  Tea  and  Syrup  of  Figs.  Senna  is  frequently  used  in 
combination  with  other  remedies.  It  is  a safe  and  sure  cathartic  but  some- 
times causes  griping  pains  and  sickness  at  the  stomach  when  used  alone. 

SHEEP  SORREL. 

(Rumex  Acetosa.) 

Action. — Refrigerant. 

Uses. — Tumors,  Ulcers,  Old  Sores,  Cancers,  Inflammations. 

This  plant  is  too  common  to  need  description.  To  make  a poultice  wrap 
the  leaves  and  roast  them  and  apply  to  tumors  and  inflammations.  It  will 
hasten  the  healing.  The  following  is  also  good.  Take  sheep  sorrel,  bruise 
and  press  out  the  juice,  place  it  on  plates  and  dry  in  the  sun  until  of  the 
proper  consistency  for  a plaster.  Apply  on  white  paper  or  a soft  piece  of 
bladder  to  old  sores,  ulcers  or  cancers.  Renew  occasionally.  If  it  proves 
too  painful  it  may  be  left  off  at  night.  This  is  also  good  for  old  sores  on 
stock. 


SKULLCAP. 

Mad  Weed — Hood  wort — Blue  Pimpernal — (Scutellaria). 

Action. — Diaphoretic,  Tonic,  Nervine. 

Uses. — St.  Vitus’  Dance'  Convulsions,  Twitchings,  Teething,  Tremors, 
Restlessless  in  Young  Girls,  Delirium  Tremens. 

This  plant  is  found  growing  near  water  in  the  United  States.  It  has 
very  little  smell  and  a slightly  bitter  taste.  The  root  is  yellow  and  fibrous. 
The  stem  grows  from  1 to  3 feet  high.  The  flowers  are  of  a pale  blue  color 
and  grow  in  long  spikes.  A strong  tea  is  made  with  1 ounce  of  the  plant 
to  a pint  of  water  and  the  dose  is  from  ounce  to  an  ounce  3 or  4 times  a 
day.  It  is  good  for  St.  Vitus’  dance,  convulsions,  twitchings,  teething,  tremors 
and  also  for  restlessness  in  }^oung  girls.  The  dose  of  the  fluid  extract  is 
from  Y2  to  1 dram.  The  infusion  drank  freely  quiets  delirium  tremens.  The 
warm  tea  keeps  the  skin  moist  and  the  cold  tea  has  a tonic  action. 

SKUNK  CABBAGE. 

Meadow  Cabbage — Swamp  Cabbage — Fetid  Hellebore — (Dracontium 

Foetidum). 

Action. — Emetic,  Stimulant,  Antispasmodic,  Narcotic. 

Uses. — Asthma,  Chorea,  Coughs,  Catarrhs,  Chronic  Bronchitis. 

Grows  in  boggy  woods  and  swamps  in  the  United  States.  The  flowers 
are  among  the  first  that  appear  in  the  spring.  It  is  stemless  and  looks 
somewhat  like  a cabbage.  Good  for  asthma,  chorea,  coughs,  catarrhs  and 
chronic  bronchitis.  The  dose  of  the  powdered  root  is  from  3 to  10  grains 
4 times  a day.  Large  doses  produce  nausea,  vomiting,  dizziness  and  dim- 
ness of  sight.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  of  the  fresh  root  is  from  1 to  2 tea- 
spoonfuls. The  tea  is  made  with  1 ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  boiling 
water.  The  dose  is  1 to  2 ounces  3 times  a day. 

SMARTWEED. 

Water  Pepper — Knot  Grass — Biting  Knot  Weed — (Polygonum). 

Uses, — Amenorrhea,  Sprains,  Bruises,  Rheumatism,  Stone  in  Bladder* 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


347 


This  is  a small  herb  with  narrow  green  leaves  and  spikes  of  small  green- 
ish or  whitish  flowers.  Grows  in  New  York. 

For  internal  uses  make  a cold  tea  with  1 ounce  of  smartweed  to  a pint 
of  water.  Never  scald  it  for  internal  use.  Take  freely  for  several  days  be- 
fore the  menstrual  period  in  case  of  amenorrhea  or  slight  menses.  For  this 
disease  you  can  use  V2  dram  of  the  fluid  extract  if  you  wish  3 or  4 times  a 
day.  Externally  it  is  splendid  for  sprains,  bruises  and  rheumatism.  Can 
be  combined  with  wormwood,  water  and  arnica.  Saturate  cloths  and  apply 
hot  and  continuously.  The  dose  of  the  cold  tea  is  from  2 to  4 ounces.  The 
ashes  of  this  plant  combined  with  the  ashes  of  thyme  have  been  used  as  in- 
jections for  stone  in  the  bladder.  However,  this  is  rather  dangerous  and  not 
to  be  generally  recomrnended  except  under  the  directions  of  a physician. 

SNAKE  HEAD. 

Balmony — Fish  Mouth — Bitter  Herb — Turtle  Bloom — (Chelone  Glabra). 

Action. — Tonic. 

Uses. — Fevers,  Jaundice,  Liver  Troubles,  Dyspepsia,  Debility. 

Grows  in  wet  places  in  the  U.  S.  and  blossoms  from  July  until  late 
autumn.  The  root  is  perennial  and  the  stem  erect  and  from  2 to  4 feet 
high  though  sometimes  decumbent.  The  flowers  are  angular,  four  sided, 
terminal  and  generally  white  though  they  are  of  different  colors  in  different 
varieties.  Some  of  the  flowers  are  white,  spotted  with  red  and  purple,  and 
they  are  of  a most  singular  shape,  resembling  the  head  of  a snake  with  its 
mouth  open.  The  leaves  are  opposite,  bear  a slight  resemblance  to  mint 
leaves  and  are  of  a dark  green  color  when  fresh  and  almost  black  when  dry 
and  are  intensely  bitter.  Grows  in  moist  lands  and  by  the  sides  of  brooks, 
both  in  the  open  and  in  the  shade. 

It  is  a very  powerful  bitter  tonic.  Can  be  combined  with  other  bitter 
tonics  like  gentian  and  cinchona.  The  leaves  are  the  best  and  can  be  given 
in  powder,  tincture,  decoction  or  infusion.  The  weak  tea  can  be  drank  freely 
as  a tonic  for  fevers  and  jaundice.  The  weak  tea  is  made  with  an  ounce  of 
the  leaves  to  a pint  of  water.  The  dose  is  from  % to  1 ounce.  The  dose  of 
the  tincture  is  from  V2  to  1 dram.  Good  for  jaundice  and  liver  diseases.  Small 
doses  are  good  for  dyspepsia,  debility,  etc. 

SOLOMON’S  SEAL. 

(Convallaria  Polygonatum.) 

Action. — Astringent. 

Uses. — Female  Diseases,  Piles. 

This  plant  rises  from  6 to  8 inches  high.  The  leaves  are  lance-like  and 
dark  green.  The  flowers  are  in  clusters  and  hang  on  the  lower  side  of  the 
leaning  stalks,  producing  red  berries.  Grows  in  meadows,  on  high  banks 
and  mountain  sides  in  every  part  of  the  U.  S. 

The  roots  are  astringent.  For  female  weakness  such  as  whites,  weak- 
ness of  the  womb  and  too  much  monthly  flow,  use  a handful  each  of  Solo- 
mon*s  seal  root  and  comfrey  root,  bruised  and  infused  in  2 quarts  of  wine. 
This  is  a valuable  remedy.  Take  a wineglassful  3 times  a day.  For  piles 
apply  the  bruised  roots  to  the  parts.  The  decoction  is  prepared  by  using 
an  ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  boiling  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  3 
ounces  3 times  a day.  Can  be  used  as  an  injection  for  whites  and  piles. 


348 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


SPEARMINT. 

(Mentha  Viridis.) 

Action. — Stimulant,  Carminative,  Aromatic. 

Uses. — Nausea,  Vomiting,  Gravel,  Urinary  Troubles,  Sprains,  Piles. 

Excellent  for  nausea  and  vomiting.  Good  for  gravel,  suppressed  urine  and 
painful  urination.  It  is  of  the  same  order  as  peppermint.  Bruise  the  green 
plant  and  add  enough  Holland  gin  to  make  a saturated  tincture.  Take  a 
wineglassful  as  often  as  you  can  possibly  bear  it  for  suppressed  urine  and 
gravel.  Wet  cotton  with  this  and  apply  to  piles  to  relieve  the  pain.  Very 
excellent  for  external  use  for  sprains  when  combined  with  wormwood  and 
smartweed.  Combined  with  marshmallow  root  it  forms  a very  good  mixture. 
For  high  colored  urine  and  painful  urination  the  cold  tea  is  best. 

ST.  JOHN’S  WORT. 

(Hypericum  Perforatum.) 

Action. — Astringent. 

Uses. — Wounds,  Sores,  Bruises,  Ulcers,  Swellings,  Caked  Breasts. 

Grows  in  the  U.  S.  and  flowers  in  June.  Has  hard  upright  stalks  with 
spreading  branches  and  small  deep  green  colored  leaves.  The  flowers  are 
yellow  and  five  leaved  with  many  yellow  threads  in  the  middle,  which,  when 
bruised,  yield  a juice  like  blood.  The  flowers  produce  round  heads  which 
contain  seeds  that  are  small  and  black  like  raisin  seeds.  The  root  is  hard. 
The  tops  and  blossoms  are  used  for  ointments.  Very  good  for  wounds  and 
especially  perforating  wounds.  A tea  of  the  leaves,  taken  internally,  is  alsp 
good  for  wounds  and  sores.  The  best  use  of  the  remedy  is  locally  and  intern- 
ally for  small  perforating  wounds.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  an  ounce  of 
the  leaves  to  a pint  of  water,  for  internal  use.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces 
3 or  4 times  a day.  Two  ounces  of  leaves  to  a pint  of  water  is  right  for 
external  use.  The  blossoms  infused  in  sweet  oil  by  exposure  to  the  sun 
make  a fine  ointment  for  perforating  wounds,  bruises,  ulcers,  swellings  and 
caked  breasts.  Fomentations  may  be  used  for  the  same  purpose. 

STONE  ROOT. 

Knob  Root — Rich  weed — Horse  Balm — (Collinsonia  Canadensis). 

Action. — Diuretic,  Antispasmodic. 

Uses. — Headaches,  Colic,  Cramps,  Anemia,  Chlorosis,  Colds,  Lumbago, 
Spasmodic  Croup,  Whooping  Cough,  Piles,  Whites,  Urinary  Troubles, 
Bruises,  Ulcers,  Wounds,  Sprains,  Contusions. 

Found  from  Canada  to  Virginia.  Grows  from  1 to  3 feet  high.  Root  is 
hard  and  stone-like.  Has  numerous  pale  yellow  flowers  with  a lemon  odor. 

Used  for  headaches,  colic  and  cramps,  particularly  after  childbirth.  Good 
for  anemia  and  chlorosis.  The  hot  infusion  at  bed  time  will  cure  ordinary 
colds  or  mild  lumbago  and  is  also  good  for  spasmodic  croup  and  whooping 
cough.  Use  the  tea  as  an  injection  for  piles  or  make  a suppository  of  10  to 
60  grains  and  use  every  night.  The  tea  is  good  as  an  injection  for  whites. 
The  tea  is  also  good  for  dribbling  of  the  urine  and  incontinence  of  urine  in 
children.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  an  ounce  to  a pint  of  water.  Make  it 
stronger  if  it  is  to  be  used  as  an  injection.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  4 ounces. 
The  dose  of  the  powdered  root  is  from  10  to  60  grains ; of  the  tincture,  from 
20  to  60  drops  and  of  the  fluid  extract  from  1 to  60  drops.  Applied  externally 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


349 


as  a poultice  the  leaves  are  good  for  bruises,  blows,  wounds,  sprains  and  con- 
tusions. 

STRAWBERRY. 

(Fragaria  Vesca.) 

Action. — Diuretic,  Aperient. 

Uses. — Kidney  and  Bladder  Troubles,  Sore  Mouth. 

Persons  who  suffer  from  kidney  or  bladder  troubles  should  frequently 
eat  strawberries  when  they  are  in  season  and  at  other  seasons  they  should 
use  a syrup  made  from  the  berries.  Strawberries  are  a very  valuable  remedy 
for  either  kidney  or  bladder  troubles.  Strawberry  leaf  tea  with  alum  is 
good  for  sore  mouth. 


SUMACH. 

(Rhus  Glabra.) 

Action. — Astringent,  Refrigerant. 

Uses. — Venereal  and  Scrofulous  Diseases,  Falling  of  Bowels  and  Womb, 
Gleet,  Skin  Eruptions,  Sore  Throat,  Diarrhea,  Dysentery,  Ulcers,  Old  Sores, 
Kidney  Troubles. 

This  shrub  grows  from  6 to  14  feet  high.  The  stem  is  knotty,  usually 
bent  and  is  divided  into  several  branches.  Has  a smooth,  light  gray  bark. 
The  blossoms  are  reddish  and  grow  in  spikes.  Leaves  turn  red  in  autumn. 
The  berries  are  crimson  and  grow  in  thick  clusters. 

An  excellent  injection  or  wash  is  made  of  the  decoction  of  the  bark  of 
the  root  for  scrofulous  and  venereal  diseases  and  for  falling  of  the  womb  and 
bowels.  At  the  same  time  a decoction  of  the  bark  of  the  rjot  with  white 
pine,  slippery  elm  and  blood  root  should  be  taken  freely.  This  is  also  good 
for  eruptions  of  the  skin,  gleet,  etc.  A tea  made  from  the  berries  and  sweetened 
with  honey  is  good  for  sore  throat  when  used  as  a gargle.  If  sweetened  with 
loaf  sugar  it  is  good  for  dysentery,  diarrhea  and  other  bowel  complaints. 
For  old  sores  and  ulcers  a splendid  poultice  may  be  made  from  either  the 
berries  or  the  bark.  Either  the  fluid  extract  or  the  decoction  is  good  for 
kidney  troubles  and  especially  where  there  is  suppression  or  incontinence  of 
urine.  From  10  to  30  drops  of  the  fluid  extract  may  be  taken  during  each  day. 

SUNFLOWER. 

(Helianthus  Annuus.) 

Action. — Diuretic,  Expectorant. 

Uses. — Kidney  Troubles,  Throat  Troubles,  Lung  Troubles,  Bronchitis, 
Laryngitis. 

Has  an  erect  rough  stem  usually  about  7 feet  high.  The  leaves  are  large 
and  three  nerved.  The  flowers  are  large  and  nodding  with  yellow  rays.  The 
seeds  are  numerous  and  dark  purple  when  rine.  Native  of  South  America 
but  cultivated  here  on  account  of  its  beautiful  yellow  flowers  which  appear 
in  July  and  August.  The  ripe  seeds  are  the  part  used. 

The  seeds  and  leaves  are  diuretic  and  expectorant  and  have  been  much 
used  in  kidney,  throat  and  lung  affections.  Put  2 pounds  of  the  bruised  seeds 
into  5 gallons  of  water  and  boil  down  to  3 gallons,  strain,  add  12  pounds  of 
sugar  and  IV2  gallons  of  good  Holland  gin.  The  dose  of  this  is  from  2 
drams  to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day  or  whenever  there  is  a tickling  or  irri- 
tation of  the  throat  or  the  cough  is  excessive  or  when  expectoration  is  diffi- 


350 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


cult  in  bronchitis,  laryngitis  or  lung  consumption.  Other  medicines  may  be 
added  to  the  above.  An  -infusion  of  the  pith  of  sunflower  stem  is  good  as  a 
diuretic.  The  pith  contains  nitre.  For  the  tea  use  10  ounces  of  the  pith  to  a 
pint  of  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

SWAMP  SNAKE  ROOT. 

Uses. — Female  Troubles,  Coughs. 

Grows  by  the  sides  of  streams  on  lands  so  low  that  they  are  flooded  at 
some  season  of  the  year.  It  rises  6 to  8 inches  high.  The  leaf  is  round  with 
notches  on  the  edge.  The  color  of  the  root  is  purple.  The  smell  is  fragrant 
and  agreeable. 

Good  for  coughs  and  consumptive  habit.  Good  also  for  female  debility 
due  to  irregular  monthlies  and  has  been  called  “ the  female  regulator.”  The 
tea  is  made  by  using  one  ounce  of  the  plant  to  a pint  of  boiling  water.  The 
dose  is  from  V2  to  1 ounce  3 times  a day. 

SWEET  CLOVER. 

King’s  Clover — Melilot — (Melilotus  Alba). 

Uses. — Leucorrhea,  Coughs,  Swellings,  Inflammations. 

One  kind  of  sweet  clover  has  white  blossoms  and  the  other  has  yellow 
blossoms.  It  very  often  grows  from  4 to  G feet  high.  The  odor  is  somewhat 
like  that  of  the  ton  qua  bean. 

A tea  made  of  the  leaves  and  flowers  is  good  for  coughs  and  leucorrhea. 
However,  it  is  most  frequently  used  as  a poultice  or  an  ointment  for  swell- 
ings and  inflammations. 

SWEET  FLAG. 

Flag  Root — Sweet  Rush — Calamus — (Acorus  Calamus). 

Uses. — Cholera  Morbus,  Colic,  Stomach  Troubles. 

Sweet  flag  is  large,  fleshy  and  horizontal.  It  should  be  gathered  late  in 
the  autumn.  It  is  pinkish  inside  and  has  an  agreeable  odor  and  pleasant  taste. 
In  making  the  tea  use  an  ounce  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  boiling  water.  The 
hot  decoction  is  also  good.  The  dose  is  a wineglassful.  It  is  very  good  for 
cholera  morbus  and  colic.  The  dose  of  the  powdered  or  grated  dry  root  is  1 
teaspoonful  every  15  minutes ; or,  of  the  infusion  of  the  green  root  the  dose 
is  from  4 to  6 ounces.  It  is  very  good  for  colic  and  especially  wind  colic.  It 
is  also  good  for  flatulent  stomach  disorders.  In  flatulent  colic  of  children  it 
is  best  combined  with  magnesia.  The  dose  for  adults  is  from  V2  to  1 tea- 
spoonful of  magnesia  and  the  dose  for  children  from  5 to  10  grains. 

TANSY. 

(Tanacetum  Vulgare.) 

Action. — Tonic.  Anthelmintic. 

Uses. — Menstrual  Troubles,  Flysteria,  Urinary  Troubles,  Stomach 
Troubles,  Flatulence,  Jaundice,  Worms. 

This  is  excellent  for  its  tonic  action  on  the  stomach.  Good  for  menstrual 
troubles  and  hvsteria.  Aids  in  bringing  on  the  menses.  A tea  made  of  the 
leaves  and  seeds  is  good  for  worms  in  children.  The  juice  or  infusion  is 
good  for  painful  urination  and  for  urinary  weakness.  For  the  tea  use  1 ounce 
of  the  leaves  or  tops  to  a pint  of  hot  water  and  give  from  1 to  2 ounces  for 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


351 


menstrual  troubles.  The  cold  tea  is  good  for  dyspepsia,  flatulence,  hysteria, 
jaundice  and  worms.  As  a fomentation  it  is  good  for  swellings,  local  inflam- 
mations and  also  as  an  application  to  the  bowels  in  monthly  troubles.  The 
dose  of  the  powder  is  from  30  to  60  grains  2 or  3 times  a day;  of  the  tea 
from  2 to  4 ounces;  of  the  tincture  from  1 to  2 teaspoonfuls. 

TETTERWORT. 

Celandine — (Chelidonium). 

Action. — Purgative,  Diuretic. 

Uses. — Dropsy,  Green  Sickness,  Skin  Eruptions,  Jaundice,  Liver  Troubles. 

Is  found  by  the  side  of  running  brooks.  Grows  to  the  height  of  2 feet. 
The  stalks  have  larger  joints  than  is  common  with  other  plants  and  are  very 
easily  broken. 

From  20  to  30  drops  of  the  juice  or  teaspoonful  of  the  powdered  root 
in  new  milk  is  said  to  cure  dropsy,  green  sickness  and  skin  eruptions.  It 
is  very  good  for  the  liver  when  the  pain  is  felt  under  the  right  shoulder  blade. 
To  make  the  tincture  use  1 ounce  of  the  plant  to  a pint  of  spirits.  This  is 
good  for  catarrh  of  the  liver  and  jaundice.  The  dose  of  this  is  from  10  to  20 
drops.  Should  be  taken  4 times  a day.  The  dose  of  the  powder  is  from  10 
to  40  grains  and  of  the  fresh  juice  from  30  to  40  drops  in  liquid. 

THORN  APPLE. 

Stramonium — Stink  Weed — Jamestown  Weed — Jimson  Weed — (Datura 

Stramonium) — (Poison). 

Action. — Narcotic,  Anti-spasmodic,  Sedative. 

Uses. — Epilepsy,  Insanity,-  Asthma,  Chorea,  Sciatica,  Ulcers,  Tumors, 
Cancers,  Scalds,  Burns,  Piles,  Painful  Monthlies. 

Grows  plentifully  in  Europe  and  the  U.  S.  by  the  roadsides.  Is  from  4 
to  6 feet  hieh.  The  stalks  are  long  and  where  the  branches  join  them  there 
arises  a white  flower  which  is  succeeded  by  a prickly  pod  about  the  size 
of  a hen’s  egg  and  containing  seeds. 

Its  action  is  narcotic,  anti-spasmodic  and  sedative.  Good  for  epilepsy, 
insanity,  asthma,  chorea  or  St.  Vitus’  dance  and  sciatica.  For  an  ointment 
simmer  1 pound  of  fresh  leaves  with  3 pounds  of  lard.  This  is  good  for 
ulcers,  tumors,  cancers,  scalds,  burns  and  piles.  The  internal  dose  of  the 
powdered  leaves  is  1 grain  ; of  the  fluid  extract,  % to  t/i>  grain ; of  the  tinc- 
ture (10  per  cent,  strength),  5 to  20  drops.  The  leaves  when  dried  may  be 
mixed  with  tobacco  and  smoked  for  asthma.  The  following  is  good  as  a 
suppository  for  dysmenorrhea.  Take  4 grains  of  extract  of  stramonium,  4 
grains  of  belladonna,  4 grains  of  extract  of  opium,  40  grains  of  camphor 
and  a sufficient  quantity  of  oil  of  cacao.  This  will  make  12  suppositories. 
Insert  one  in  the  bowel  every  hour  or  two  for  relief  from  pain  in  dys- 
menorrhea or  painful  monthlies. 


THYME. 

Mother  of  Thyme — Garden  Thyme — (Thymus  Vulgaris). 

Action. — Antiseptic,  Diaphoretic,  Resolvent,  Tonic,  Stomachic. 

Uses. — Leucorrhea,  Tooth  Paste,  Dyspepsia,  Hysteria,  Painful  Menstrua- 
tion, Flatulence,  Colic. 


352 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


The  herb  is  cut  while  in  bloom  and  dried  for  use.  Oil  of  thyme  consists 
of  two  ingredients,  one  of  which  is  called  thymol  on  account  of  which  this  plant 
is  a valuable  antiseptic.  A tea  can  be  made  of  the  plant  and  is  good  as  an 
injection  for  leucorrhea.  It  is  good  in  small  doses  of  from  1 to  2 drams  as 
an  intestinal  antiseptic,  but  it  does  good  through  the  action  of  the  thymol. 
Thymol  is  much  used  as  a medicine,  for  instance,  in  thymol  tooth  paste. 
Ointment  of  thymol,  10  grains  and  lanolin  1 ounce,  is  good  for  acne.  Cold 
thymol  tea,  1 ounce  to  a pint  of  boiling  water,  is  good  for  dyspepsia  with 
weak  and  irritable  stomach.  The  warm  tea  is  good  for  hysteria,  painful  men- 
struation, flatulence,  colic  and  to  produce  sweating.  In  making  the  tea  use 
an  ounce  of  the  plant  to  a pint  of  cold  or  hot  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to 
3 ounces. 


TOBACCO. 

(Nicotiana  Tabacum.) 

Action. — Emetic,  Relaxing,  Narcotic,  Diuretic. 

Uses. — Asthma,  Coughs,  Earache,  Piles. 

Tobacco  is  very  relaxing  but  the  nicotine  in  it  is  very  poisonous  and 
makes  it  an  unsafe  remedy  in  many  cases.  Tobacco  smoke  is  good  as  a pal- 
liative of  asthma  and  of  nervous  coughing  caused  by  tickling  of  the  larynx.  It 
is  also  much  used  for  earache.  It  was  formerly  used  a great  deal  externally 
as  an  application  to  broken  -surfaces  but  symptoms  of  poisoning  sometimes 
result  when  it  is  thus  used  and  hence  it  is  not  used  so  much  now  as  formerly. 
It  is  one  of  the  ingredients  of  the  pile  remedy  known  as  Trask’s  Ointment. 

TRAILING  ARBUTUS. 

Gravel  Weed — Winter  Pink — Mountain  Pink — Ground  Laurel — Mayflower. 

(Epigea  Repens.) 

Action. — Astringent,  Diuretic. 

Uses. — Kidney  Troubles,  Gravel,  Urinary  Troubles. 

Trailing  plant,  indigenous,  with  woody  stems  6 to  20  inches  long,  cov- 
ered with  hairy  pubescence  in  all  its  parts.  The  leaves  are  evergreen,  2 to 
21/2  inches  long,  IV2  inches  wide,  roundish  at  the  ends  and  abruptly  tipped 
with  a sharp  point.  The  flowers  are  very  fragrant  and  white  or  striped 
with  various  shades  of  red.  Appears  in  April  and  May.  The  capsule  or  pod 
is  depressed,  globular,  five-lobed,  five-celled  and  many  seeded.  Grows  in 
sandy  woods  and  is  found  from  Newfoundland  to  Pennsylvania  and  Ken- 
tucky. Prefers  sides  of  hills  and  a northern  exposure.  The  leaves  are  the 
parts  used. 

It  is  astringent  and  diuretic  (acts  on  kidneys).  Good  for  gravel  and  all 
diseases  of  the  urinary  organs.  The  tea  made  by  using  2 ounces  of  the  leaves 
to  a pint  of  boiling  water  should  be  drank  freely  every  few  hours.  To  make 
a diuretic  compound,  take  of  this  plant,  also  queen  of  the  meadow,  dwarf 
elder  bark,  marshmallow  root,  V2  ounce  of  each  coarsely  bruised;  boiling 
water  and  good  Holland  gin,  of  each  1 pint  and  enough  honey  to  sweeten. 
Pour  the  oiling  water  on  the  plants  and  boil  them  with  gentle  heat  in  a 
close-cove  ^d  vessel  for  6 hours.  Remove  from  the  fire,  strain  and  add  suffi- 
cient honey  to  render  it  pleasant.  Very  useful  for  gravel  and  suppressed, 
high  colored,  and  scalding  urine.  The  dose  is  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 
For  gravel  % ounce  of  wild  carrot  may  be  added. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


S62 


TURKEY  CORN. 

(Corydalis.) 

Action. — Tonic,  Diuretic,  Alterative. 

Uses. — Syphilis,  Blood  Diseases,  Scrofula. 

This  is  an  early  spring  plant  sometimes  making  its  appearance  in  March. 
The  root  is  tuberous ; the  stem  is  8 to  10  inches  high ; and  the  flower  stem 
bears  nodding,  many  flowered  clusters. 

It  is  a tonic,  diuretic  and  alterative.  Is  good  for  syphilis  and  blood  affec- 
tions such  as  scrofula.  Wash  syphilitic  ulcers  with  the  tea.  It  is  frequently 
used  with  other  blood  remedies,  such  as  poke  root,  stillingia,  prickly  ash  and 
iodide  of  potash.  The  tea  is  made  by  using  1/2  ounce  of  the  powdered  bulb  to 
a pint  of  boiling  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 
The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  from  to  2 teaspoonfuls  and  of  the  fluid  extract 
from  15  to  60  drops.  This  remedy  is  especially  good  for  syphilis  and  scrofula 
when  combined  with  the  alterative  action  of  mandrake,  prickly  ash,  blue  flag, 
poke  root  and  Aven’s  root.  Use  equal  parts  of  all  except  the  prickly  ash  and 
of  it  use  % as  much  as  of  each  of  the  others. 

UNICORN  ROOT. 

Blazing  Star — Devil’s  Bit — (Helonias  Dioica). 

Action. — Tonic,  Diuretic. 

Uses. — Painful  Urination,  Suppressed  Menses,  Miscarriage,  Whites, 
Amenorrhea. 

Grows  in  the  U.  S.  east  of  the  Mississippi.  The  root  is  perennial, 
rather  smaller  than  the  little  finger,  irregular  in  form,  1 to  2 inches  long,  of 
dry  dark  color,  very  hard,  full  of  little  pits,  rough  and  wrinkled.  It  has 
numerous  small,  dark  colored,  fibrous  roots  which,  when  deprived  of  their  out- 
side bark  somewhat  resemble  hog  bristles.  The  leaves  are  pale,  smooth,  ever- 
green and  in  the  winter  lay  flat  on  the  ground  in  the  shape  of  a star.  The 
stem  is  from  8 to  18  inches  high,  upright,  naked  and  terminating  in  a spike 
or  tassel  of  white  flowers.  Found  growing  in  thin  soils.  The  roots  are  the 
part  generally  used. 

It  is  a tonic  and  diuretic.  Relieves  colic  and  painful  urination.  Pre- 
vents miscarriage.  Good  for  suppressed  menses  and  other  female  troubles 
and  is  the  basis  of  many  of  the  recent  compounds  for  female  diseases.  It  is 
much  used  for  whites,  amenorrhea  or  want  of  menses,  and  for  painful  menses. 
The  dose  of  the  powder  is  from  20  to  30  grains;  of  the  fluid  extract,  from 
10  to  30  drops,  3 or  4 times  a day.  The  decoction  is  made  by  using  an  ounce 
of  the  plant  to  a pint  of  water  and  the  dose  is  1 or  2 ounces  3 times  a day. 

WHITE  OAK. 

(Quercus  Alba.) 

Action. — Astringent,  Antiseptic,  Tonic. 

Uses. — Uterine  Bleeding,  Whites,  Bleeding  Piles,  Sore  Throat,  Sore 
Eyes,  Tonsilitis,  Ulcers,  Poisons,  Scrofula,  Gangrene,  Antidote. 

This  bark  is  astringent,  tonid  and  antiseptic.  It  is  good  as  an  injection 
for  uterine  bleeding  and  for  whites.  It  is  good  to  check  gangrene ; wet  the 
parts  with  the  decoction.  For  whites  use  the  decoction  diluted  one-half  with 
water.  Good  as  a gargle  for  sore  throat  and  tonsilitis  and  when  weakened  is 
good  for  sore  eyes.  Good  for  old  indolent  sores  and  ulcers.  Mixed  with  salt 

23 


354 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


and  water  it  is  fine  for  raw  surfaces  on  horses’  shoulders.  It  is  a good  in- 
jection for  bleeding  piles,  either  full  strength  or  diluted.  It  contains  tannic 
acid  which  is  an  antidote  for  poisons.  The  decoction  may  be  taken  for  this 
purpose  and  the  dose  is  from  1 to  2 ounces.  The  longer  you  boil  the  decoc- 
tion, the  stronger  it  becomes.  Usually  an  ounce  of  the  bark  should  be  used 
to  a pint  of  water.  Green  bark  of  elder  and  white  oak,  bruised  together,  or  in 
strong  decoction,  forms  a very  good  application  for  abrasions  and  for  sores 
on  horses’  shoulders.  A coffee  made  of  roasted  acorns  is  said  to  be  good  in 
the  treatment  of  scrofula.  The  dose  of  the  decoction  is  from  1 to  2 ounces. 

WHITE  POND  LILY. 

Sweet  Scented  Water  Lily — Toad  Lily — Water  Cabbage — (Nymphaea 

Odorata). 

Action. — Astringent. 

Uses. — Leucorrhea,  Gonorrhea,  Scrofulous  Sores,  Boils,  White  Swellings, 
Lockjaw,  Diarrhea,  Dysentery,  Pimples,  Freckles,  Inflamed  Eyes,  Sore 
Throat,  Asthma. 

Found  in  all  parts  of  the  country  in  rivers,  ditches  and  ponds.  The  seeds 
ripen  in  water.  The  flowers  close  at  night  and  the  perfume  is  similar  to  mag- 
nolia. The  roots  are  the  part  mostly  used  as  medicine.  They  are  of  a black- 
ish color,  thick  and  notched. 

Good  for  gonorrhea,  leucorrhea  and  scrofula  and  also  for  bowel  com- 
plaints, including  diarrhea  and  dysentei%.  The  dose  of  the  powdered  root  is 
from  1/4  to  % teaspoonful  in  warm  water.  One-half  pint  of  port  wine  and  % 
pound  of  sugar  added  to  a pint  of  the  expressed  juice  make  a fine  prepara- 
tion and  the  dose  is  from  2 to  4 tablespoonfuls  4 times  a day.  Poultices 
made  of  the  roots  and  leaves  are  good  for  lockjaw,  scrofulous  sores,  boils  and 
inflamed  skin.  In  combination  with  cohosh  root  and  slippery  elm  bark  it 
makes  a good  poultice  for  white  swellings.  The  poultice  should  be  changed 
3 or  4 times  a day  and  the  patient  should  also  take  some  good  blood  remedy. 
If  the  fresh  juice  of  the  roots  is  mixed  with  lemon  juice  a good  cosmetic 
will  be  the  result.  This  is  good  for  removing  freckles  and  pimples.  A de- 
coction made  of  the  leaves  is  good  when  used  as  a wash  for  old  sores,  fresh 
wounds  and  ulcers.  Also  good  for  putrid  sore  throat  and  asthma  when  used 
as  a gargle  and  is  a good  wash  for  inflamed  eyes. 

WILD  CARROT. 

Bee’s  Nest — Bird’s  Nest — (Daucus  Carota). 

Action. — Diuretic. 

Uses. — Kidney  and  Bladder  Diseases,  Obstructed  Menses,  Stomach 
Troubles,  Dysentery,  Chronic  Coughs,  Fissures  and  Ulcers,  Pliccough. 

The  root  of  the  cultivated  carrot  when  scraped  makes  a fine  poultice  for 
ulcers. 

The  wild  carrot  is  common  in  the  U.  S.  and  grows  in  old  fields  and  by 
the  roadside.  The  stalks  are  rougher  and  whiter  than  the  stalks  of  the  cul- 
tivated carrot.  When  used  in  the  form  of  a strong  decoction  the  wild  carrot 
is  excellent  for  gravel  and  passage  of  stone  from  the  bladder  and  kidneys.  It 
is  also  good  for  fissured  nipples  and  ulcers  which  are  of  a cancerous  nature. 
The  seeds  are  good  for  dysentery,  flatulent  disorders,  obstructed  menses, 
hiccough  and  chronic  coughs.  From  ^4  to  % of  a teaspoon ful  is  the  dose  of 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


355 


the  bruised  seeds.  A strong  decoction  made  of  the  seeds  may  be  drank  freely 
while  warm. 


WILD  CHERRY. 

Black  Cherry — Rum  Cherry — Cabinet  Cherry — (Prunus  Virginiana). 

Action. — Tonic,  Astringent. 

Uses. — Coughs,  Whooping  Cough,  Diarrhea. 

The  bark  of  the  root  is  the  part  used.  Add  cold  water  to  the  bark  and 
let  it  stand  from  36  to  48  hours.  The  dose  is  from  2 to  4 ounces  3 or  4 times 
a day.  It  is  very  good  as  a tonic.  Good  for  coughs  and  especially  when  it  is 
combined  with  other  remedies.  For  the  cough  of  consumption  the  following 
is  good.  Take  2 grains  of  codeine,  12  drops  of  tincture  of  belladonna  and 
enough  syrup  of  wild  cherry  to  make  3 ounces.  Give  1 or  2 teaspoonfuls  when 
the  cough  is  troublesome  at  night.  The  mild  tea  made  of  the  bark  of  the  root 
allays  nervous  coughs  and  is  good  for  whooping  cough.  For  this  purpose  the 
tea  should  be  made  with  from  to  1 ounce  of  the  bark  to  a quart  of  water. 
Good  for  the  stomach  and  bowels  as  a tonic  in  case  of  diarrhea.  For  the  reg- 
ular tea  use  1 ounce  of  the  bark  to  a pint  of  water.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  2 
ounces.  The  dose  of  the  syrup  is  1 dram  and  of  the  fluid  extract  from  10  to  60 
drops. 


WILD  GINGER. 

Colt’s  Foot — Canada  Snake  Root — (Asarum  Americanum) — (Asarum 

Canadense). 

Uses. — DebiliW,  Melancholia,  Palpitation,  Low  Fever,  Whooping  Cough. 

An  humble,  stemless  plant.  The  leaves  rise  immediately  from  the  root, 
usually  2 in  number  and  resemble  a colt’s  foot.  The  flowers  proceed  from 
between  these  leaves  and  are  large,  purple  and  bell  shaped.  The  root  is  of 
a grayish  brown  color  without  but  is  white  within.  Grows  in  shady  woods 
and  rich  soils.  Flowers  from  April  to  July.  Useful  in  debility,  melancholia, 
palpitation,  low  fever,  convalescence  and  whooping  cough.  For  these  troubles 
it  should  be  used  in  small  doses.  Large  doses  cause  sickness  at  the  stomach. 
The  root  is  the  part  used  in  making  the  powder  and  the  dose  is  % dram.  In 
making  the  tea  use  an  ounce  of  wild  ginger  to  a pint  of  water  and  give  from 
1 to  2 teaspoonfuls  every  2 or  3 hours. 

WILD  YAM. 

Colic  Root — (Dioscorea  Villosa). 

Action. — Diaphoretic,  Emetic. 

Uses. — Liver  Troubles,  Gall  Stones,  Jaundice,  Colic,  Cramp  in  Bowels, 
Chronic  Malaria. 

Grows  in  the  southern  states ; less  plentiful  in  the  northern  states.  It  fs 
a climbing  plant  and  forms  a thicket  in  moist  localities.  The  leaves  are 
smooth  above  and  downy  beneath.  The  fruit  is  a triangular,  wing-shaped 
capsule  that  grows  in  pendant  bunches.  The  root  forks  repeatedly  and  breaks 
with  difficulty.  It  is  of  a yellow  broom  color.  It  is  sometimes  known  as 
rheumatism  root. 

It  acts  especially  on  the  liver.  It  is  good  for  gall  stones  and  especially 
when  the  stones  are  small.  It  aids  in  the  expulsion  of  the  stones  and  re- 
duces the  inflammation  afterwards.  Good  for  jaundice  and  especially  when 


356 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


there  is  colicky  pain.  Also  good  for  cramp  in  the  bowels  and  for  liver  troubles. 
For  the  decoction  uSe  2 ounces  of  the  root  to  a pint  of  boiling  water  and  let 
it  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  The  dose  is  from  i/4  to  V2  teacupful  every 
half  hour  for  bilious  colic.  The  usual  dose  is  from  1 to  4 ounces  taken  4 
times  a day.  The  following  is  good  for  chronic  malaria.  Take  1 teaspoonful 
of  Fowler’s  solution,  I/2  ounce  of  tincture  of  wild  yam  and  2%  ounces  of 
compound  tincture  of  cardamon.  Take  a teaspoonful  in  water  after  meals. 
The  dose  of  the  tincture  of  wild  yam  is  from  10  to  40  drops  and  of  the  fluid 
extract,  from  10  to  20  drops. 

WINTERGREEN. 

Tea  Berry — Mountain  Tea — (Gaultheria  Procumbens). 

Action. — Stimulant,  Restorative,  Cordial,  Antiseptic,  Aromatic,  Astrin- 
gent. 

Uses. — Rheumatism,  Menstrual  Troubles,  Asthma,  Neuralgia,  Chronic 
Diarrhea. 

Essence  or  oil  of  wintergreen  may  be  used  or  a tea  may  be  made  of  the 
green  plant.  The  tea  is  good  to  restore  strength,  promote  menstruation  and 
relieve  asthma.  The  oil  is  used  for  neuralgia  and  rheumatism  as  it  contains 
salicylic  acid.  The  plant  is  a cordial,  stimulant,  restorative  and  partial  anti- 
septic. It  is  excellent  for  some  forms  of  chronic  diarrhea.  The  dose  of  the 
oil  of  wintergreen  is  from  5 to  10  drops  every  3 to  6 hours  and  this  dose  should 
be  gradually  increased  until  it  causes  ringing  in  the  ears. 

WITCH  HAZEL. 

(Hamamelis  Virginica.) 

Action. — Astringent. 

Uses. — Ulcers,  Piles,  Painful  Swellings,  Sprains,  Bruises,  Sore  Eyes,  Fall- 
ing of  Womb,  Enlarged  Veins,  Sore  Gums,  Bleeding,  Throat  and  Nasal  Ca- 
tarrh, Sunburn,  Eczema,  Burns,  Frostbites. 

This  is  a shrub  rising  from  6 to  10  feet  high  and  blossoming  in  winter. 
It  blossoms  after  the  leaves  are  destroyed  by  frost  and  the  fruit  is  not  injured 
by  the  winter.  Does  not  open  until  the  next  autumn  when  it  flowers  again 
and  then  fruit  and  blossoms  will  be  found  on  the  same  tree. 

The  twigs  and  flowers  are  good  in  decoction.  Can  use  the  bark  as  a poul- 
tice for  ulcers,  piles,  painful  swellings,  sprains  and  bruises.  The  tea  of  the 
leaves,  one  ounce  to  a pint  of  water,  is  good  for  sore  eyes.  A strong  decoction 
of  the  leaves  is  good  as  an  injection  for  falling  womb  and  for  piles  and  is  also 
an  excellent  application  for  enlarged  veins.  You  can  buy  any  form  of  witch 
hazel  in  any  drug  store  and  at  but  little  cost.  There  is  the  distilled  extract, 
the  fluid  extract  and  the  tincture.  The  distilled  extract,  diluted  2 or  3 
times,  is  good  for  sore  gums,  sore  throat  and  nasal  catarrh.  Good  for  bleed- 
ing after  the  pulling  of  teeth.  The  following  is  a good  ointment.  Take  from 
1 to  IV2  fluid  drams  of  the  fluid  extract  of  witch  hazel,  1 dram  of  zinc 
oxide,  40  grains  of  starch,  30  drops  of  glycerine,  and  1 ounce  of  ointment 
of  rose  water.  This  is  to  be  used  as  an  ointment  for  sunburn,  eczema, 
etc.  The  following  is  good  for  frostbites  and  burns.  Use  1 ounce  of  solu- 
tion of  lead,  1 ounce  of  laudanum,  2 ounces  of  distilled  witch  hazel  and  1 
pint  of  water.  The  following  is  good  for  piles.  Mix  with  lard  equal  parts  of 
the  decoctions  of  witch  hazel,  white  oak  bark  and  apple  tree  bark. 


HERB  DEPARTMENT. 


357 


WOOD  CHARCOAL. 

(Carbo  Ligni.) 

Action. — Disinfectant,  Absorbent. 

Uses. — Mortification,  Old  and  Ofifensive  Ulcers,  Indigestion,  Gas  Dys- 
pepsia, Acid  Stomach,  Foul  Breath. 

Take  the  white  or  soft  maple;  cut  and  split  fine  as  oven  wood;  set  in  a 
small  coal  pit  and  when  well  burned  take  it  out  and  put  a small  quantity  at 
a time  into  an  iron  kettle  and  pound  fine  and  then  sift  through  a common  sieve. 
Then  put  the  whole  into  an  iron  kettle  over  the  fire  and  heat  until  red  hot 
and  the  coal  ceases  to  send  out  a smoke.  Then,  when  cool  enough,  put  into 
bottles  and  cork  tightly. 

For  mortification  and  old,  offensive,  eating  ulcers,  prepare  as  directed 
above ; mix  well  with  yeast  and  use  as  a poultice.  For  gas  dyspepsia,  indi- 
gestion, acid  stomach  and  foul  breath,  give  from  a teaspoonful  to  a tablespoon- 
ful  either  before  or  after  meals  as  may  feel  best. 

WORMWOOD. 

(Artemisia  Absinthium.) 

Action. — Bitter  Tonic,  Anthelmintic. 

Uses. — Sprains,  Etc. 

The  stem  is  covered  with  a whitish  down,  the  leaves  are  whitish  on  both 
sides  and  the  flowers  are  small  and  yellowish  and  form  a long  cluster.  It  has 
a strong  smell  and  a bitter  spicy  taste.  Its  main  use  is  external.  It  is  splendid 
for  sprains,  either  alone  or  with  salt  water  and  smartweed  or  arnica. 

YARROW. 

Thousand  Leaf — Milfoil — (Achillea  Millefolium). 

Action. — Tonic,  Astringent,  Alterative. 

Uses. — Hemorrhage  of  Lungs  and  Kidneys,  Incontinence  of  Urine,  Dia- 
betes, Piles,  Dysentery,  Leucorrhea,  Amenorrhea,  Flatulent  Colic. 

Grows  from  12  to  18  feet  high  with  simple  stems  branching  at  the  tops. 
Has  double  winged  leaves  and  leaflets  which  are  minutely  divided  and  sub- 
divided. The  flowers  form  a thick  flat  bunch  and  are  white  or  rose  colored. 
Common  in  Europe  and  North  America.  Grows  in  fields,  woods  and  pastures 
and  flowers  nearly  all  summer.  Should  be  gathered  when  in  bloom. 

It  is  tonic,  astringent,  alterative.  Is  good  for  hemorrhage  of  the  lungs 
and  kidneys,  incontinence  of  urine,  diabetes,  piles,  dysentery,  leucorrhea, 
amenorrhea,  and  flatulent  colic.  For  the  tea  use  1 ounce  of  the  herb  to  a 
pint  of  water.  The  dose  is  from  4 to  6 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  The  dose 
of  the  oil  is  from  10  to  20  drops. 

YELLOW  DOCK. 

Narrow  Leal  Dock — Sour  Dock — Curled  Dock — Garden  Patience — (Rumex 

Crispus). 

Action. — Alterative,  Tonic,  Astringent. 

Uses. — Dyspepsia,  Liver  Complaint,  Ervsipelas,  Scrofula,  Skin  Diseases, 
Blood  Diseases,  Ulcers,  Itch,  Glandular  Swellings. 

The  leaves  are  long  and  curl  in  waves  at  the  edges  and  are  light  green 
in  color.  Grows  from  2 to  5 feet  high.  The  flowers  are  small  and  greenish 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


•3e58 

and  grow  thickly  in  long  stems.  The  root  is  brownish  yellow  on  the  out- 
side and  yellow  within.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy. 

The  decoction  is  made  by  using  2 ounces  of  the  fresh  root  to  a pint  of 
water  and  the  dose  is  from  1 to  4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day.  It  is  a good 
alterative  tonic.  Good  for  dyspepsia,  liver  complaint,  erysipelas,  scrofula, 
skin  diseases  and  blood  diseases  generally.  The  following  combination  is 
very  good.  Take  1 ounce  each  of  the  fluid  extracts  of  dandelion,  yellow  dock, 
burdock  and  wild  cherry.  Take  from  1 to  4 teaspoonfuls  4 times  a day.  The 
fresh  root,  bruised  in  cream,  lard  or  fresh  butter,  forms  an  excellent  oint- 
ment for  scrofulous  ulcers,  itch  and  indolent  glandular  swellings. 


/ 


A CHAPTER  FOR  MEN. 


It  does  not  pay  for  a young  man  to  “ sow  his  wild  oats.”  The  transient 
pleasure  of  a moment  may  mean  the  sufifering  of  a lifetime.  Though  a young 
man  may  sow  his  wild  oats  for  some  time  and  apparently  escape  retribution, 
or  he  may  contract  a disease  and  be  apparently  cured,  yet,  on  the  other  hand, 
one  indiscretion  may  mean  the  ruining  of  his  health  and  perhaps  later  the 
health  of  his  wife  also. 

Preventive  treatment  is  the  best  kind  of  treatment  for  the  diseases  of 
men.  Gonorrhea  and  syphilis  are  the  results  of  immorality  and  uncleanli- 
ness. Do  not  expose  yourself  to  these  loathsome  diseases.  However,  if  you 
have  been  exposed,  at  least  observe  the  laws  of  cleanliness  and  immediately 
wash  the  exposed  parts  thoroughly  with  some  good  antiseptic  solution  like 
carbolic  acid,  corrosive  sublimate  or  permanganate  of  potash.  Do  not  wait 
an  hour,  or  even  ten  minutes,  but  use  one  of  these  solutions  at  once  and  even 
then  you  are  taking  great  chances  of  disease.  Abstinence  and  cleanliness  are 
the  preventives  of  these  diseases. 

GONORRHEA. 

(Including  Chordee,  Bubo,  Clap,  Gleet  and  Stricture.) 

This  disease  is  commonly  known  as  the  “ clap.” 

CAUSES. — The  cause  is  generally  intercourse  with  one  afflicted  with 
this  disease.  It  may  sometimes  be  caught  from  towels,  etc.,  used  by  one 
having  the  disease.  It  is  then  likely  to  make  itself  manifest  in  the  eyes,  etc. 
Though  many  cases  of  gonorrhea  are  apparently  recovered  from  yet  the 
disease  is  often  improperly  treated  and,  though  apparently  cured,  it  still 
exists  and  a man  who  has  once  had  the  disease  may,  a long  time  afterward, 
infect  his  wife  and  this  is  a much  more  serious  disease  in  women  than  in  men. 
In  women,  this  disease  is  often  the  cause  of  diseases  of  the  ovaries,  tubes 
and  womb. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  first  symptoms  of  this  disease  are  usually  noticed 
between  the  second  and  seventh  day  after  exposure.  At  first  there  is  noticed 
a tickling  or  uneasiness  at  the  opening  of  the  urethra  or  at  the  end  of  the 
penis.  The  organ  is  found  to  be  somewhat  reddened  and  the  mucous  dis- 
charge is  more  viscid  than  usual  and  increased  in  quantity.  This  discharge 
becomes  yellowish  or  greenish  in  color  and  is  thick.  The  heat,  redness, 
swelling  and  pain  increase.  The  passing  of  water  becomes  frequent  and 
is  attended  with  a great  deal  of  pain. 

Chordee^is  often  a marked  characteristic  of  this  disease.  The  erections 
become  frequent  and  are  very  painful  and  the  organ  is  bent  downward. 

Bubo,  or  swelling  of  the  glands  in  the  groin,  is  sometimes  a feature  but 
these  glands  seldom  suppurate,  or  result  in  abscess. 

Orchitis,  or  inflammation  of  the  testicles,  is  frequently  observed  as  a fea- 
ture of  this  disease. 

Gleet  is  the  chronic  form  of  Gonorrhea  and  is  obstinate  to  treat. 

Stricture,  or  closing  of  the  passage,  is  often  caused  by  inflammation  or 
the  use  of  medicines.  It  is  attended  with  painful  urination. 

359 


360 


THE  PEOPLE’S.  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Under  good  treatment  the  disease  is  likely  to  last  from  a month  to  six 
weeks  and  if  improperly  treated  it  often  lasts  for  months. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive  treatment  is  the  best  and  consists  in  observing  cleanliness  and 
not  exposing  yourself.  However,  in  case  you  have  contracted  the  disease 
it  is  extremely  necessary  that  you  begin  treatment  at  once  and  without  delay. 
Do  not  get  a quack  to  treat  you  but  get  a good  physician.  Stay  in  bed  for  a 
week  and  take  mild  drinks  in  large  quantities.  Teas  made  from  slippery  elm, 
pumpkin  seed,  flaxseed  or  buchu  leaves  are  excellent.  Drink  plenty  of  water. 
Eat  no  meats  or  rich  and  highly  seasoned  foods  and  drink  no  alcohol  in  any 
form  but  live  on  milk  alone.  Keep  the  bowels  open  freely.  Follow  this  treat- 
ment and  you  will  soon  be  well. 

Wash  the  organ  frequently  with  warm  water.  If  you  have  much  pain  or 
chordee  use  suppositories  in  the  rectum.  The  following  is  good  for  this  pur- 
pose. Take  6 grains  of  pulverized  opium,  18  grains  of  pulverized  camphor 
and  enough  oil  of  cacao  to  mix  well.  Mix  these  ingredients  and  make  into 
6 suppositories  and  use  one  at  bed  time.  Remember  that  this  constipates  so 
move  the  bowels  with  an  injection  before  going  to  bed. 

For  the  pain  while  passing  urine  put  the  penis  into  hot  water.  Keep  the 
glans  penis  wrapped  in  absorbent  cotton  and  be  sure  to  burn  this  cotton  and 
use  every  care  not  to  get  the  discharges  into  the  eyes  or  upon  other  mucous 
surfaces. 

If  you  wish  to  use  an  injection  get  a blunt  pointed,  hard  rubber,  urethral 
syringe  holding  3 fluid  drams.  Nitrate  of  silver,  zinc  chloride,  permanganate 
of  potash,  salicylic  acid  and  creosote  are  very  irritating  and  may  do  harm. 
The  following  is  a good  injection.  Take  1/10  grain  of  hydrargyri  chloridi  cor- 
rosivi,  18  grains  of  zinc  sulpho-carbolat.,  2 ounces  of  glyceriti  boroglycernii 
(31  per  cent,  boric  acid)  and  4 ounces  of  aquae  rosae.  Mix,  shake  thoroughly 
and  use  from  1 to  2 drams  as  an  injection  once  a day.  If  the  urethra  is  very 
irritable  you  can  use  from  18  to  24  grains  of  the  watery  extract  of  opium 
added  to  the  above  prescription. 

Later  the  following  injection  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  one  above.  Use 
an  ounce  or  two  a day.  Take  1 dram  of  zinc  acetate,  1 dram  of  tannic  acid,  3 
drams  of  boric  acid  and  6 ounces  of  aqua  hydrogen  dioxid. 

For  early  use  when  the  penis  is  too  sensitive  to  stand  a stronger  injection 
the  following  will  be  found  good.  Take  2 drams  of  boric  acid,  18  grains  of 
aqueous  extract  of  opium,  and  6 ounces  of  the  dilute  solution  of  subacetate 
of  lead.  Mix  and  use  1 dram  once  or  twice  a day.  If  there  is  any  sensitive- 
ness left  the  following  may  be  used.  Take  1 grain  of  morph,  sulph.,  20  grains 
of  zinc  sulpho  carbolate  and  4 ounces  of  rose  water.  Use  a syringeful  at  a 
time  as  an  injection  twice  a day.  Or,  the  following  may  be  used  as  an  injec- 
tion in  the  same  way.  Take  20  grains  of  zinc  sulph.  carbolat,  12  drops  of  acid 
hydrocyanic  dil.  and  4 ounces  of  aquae  rosae.  Or,  this  is  a good  one.  Mix 
1 dram  of  fl.  ext.  hydrastis  with  1 ounce  of  aquae  rosae.  Use  a teaspoonful  of 
this  solution  at  each  injection.  It  will  stain  the  clothing  if  it  comes  in  con- 
tact with  it.  It  may  be  used  twice  a day  and  is  also  good  for  gleet.  If  in- 
jections do  not  help  gleet  the  best  treatment  is  the  regular  passing  of  sounds 
by  a competent  physician. 

During  the  first  10  days  the  following  is  a good  injection  for  gonorrhea. 
Take  5 grains  of  hydrastinae  hydrochloride,  5 grains  of  protargol,  1%  drams 
o''  glycerine  and  1 ounce  of  aquae  distillat  qs.  ad.  f.  Precede  with  a hot  water 


A CHAPTER  FOR'  MEN. 


361 


injection  and  use  from  4 to  6 times  a day.  Retain  the  injection  from  5 to  10 
minutes  each  time. 

After  the  first  10  days  or  after  the  first  stage  has  passed  use  5 grains  of 
the  commercial  hydrastine  to  an  ounce  of  water.  Use  from  1 to  2 drams  of 
this  as  an  injection  once  or  twice  a day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Parsley. — For  painful  urination  and  gonorrhea.  Dose  of  infusion — 
from  2 to  4 ounces  3 or  4 times  a day. 

2.  Quince  Seeds. — Drink  freely  of  a decoction  of  quince  seeds. 

3.  Cranesbill  and  Blood  Root. — Make  a decoction  by  using  2 parts  of 
cranesbill  to  1 part  of  blood  root  and  use  as  an  injection  for  gonorrhea.  A 
good  remedy. 


SYPHILIS. 

Pox — Lues — (Including  Chancre  and  Chancroid). 

Syphilis  is  a contagious  disease  and  is  either  acquired  or  hereditary.  The 
acquired  form  is  divided  into  3 stages — primary,  secondary  and  tertiary.  The 
virus  of  the  disease  is  active  in  the  transmission  of  the  malady  throughout 
the  primary  and  secondary  stages,  and  during  all  this  time  all  secretions  from 
the  sores  are  capable  of  producing  the  disease  in  another  person  provided 
they  be  brought  in  contact  with  a tear  or  sore  in  the  skin  or  mucous  mem- 
brane. Infection  does  not  take  place  through  healthy  skin  or  mucous  mem- 
brane but  the  break  may  be  so  slight  as  to  escape  notice.  The  acquired  form 
is  not  conveyed  by  the  discharges  from  syphilitic  sores  or  by  the  blood  of 
a syphilitic  if  five  years  have  elapsed  since  the  date  of  the  first  infection.  In 
other  words,  the  disease  is  contagious  during  the  first  two  stages  but  not 
during  the  tertiary  stage. 

Hereditary  syphilis  may  come  to  a child  from  one  or  both  parents.  A 
syphilitic  father  or  mother  may  be  the  parent  of  a syphilitic  or  a non-syphilitic 
child.  If  both  parents  are  syphilitic  the  probability  of  the  child’s  being  af- 
fected is  twice  as  great  as  if  one  parent  alone  is  affected. 

The  primary  sore  or  lesion  of  syphilis  is  called  the  chancre  and  develops 
at  the  point  of  infection  and  an  ulcer  is  the  result.  The  secondary  stage 
soon  develops.  The  lymph  nodes  or  glands  all  over  the  body,  notably  those 
nearest  the  chancre,  become  enlarged  and  inflamed.  Following  this  is  the 
tertiary  stage  in  which  the  bone  covering  and  internal  organs  suffer  from 
peculiar  growths.  These  growths  are  usually  in  circumscribed  nodes.  They 
(the  gummata)  may  grow  to  a considerable  size.  Syphilis  causes  grave 
changes  in  the  blood  vessels,  liver,  lungs  and  brain  and,  in  fact,  in  about  all 
the  organs  of  the  body. 

SYMPTOMS.— 

First  Stage. — The  patient  develops,  at  the  site  of  the  original  contact  with 
the  virus,  a small  pimple  which  has  an  area  of  hard  tissue  about  its  base.  This 
is  the  hard  chancre  and  usually  makes  its  appearance  in  from  12  to  21  days 
after  exposure.  The  inguinal  glands  are  slightly  enlarged.  This  period  lasts 
from  3 days  to  two  weeks  and  is  followed  by  the  secondary  stage.  The 
chancre  is  but  a local  manifestation  of  the  disease.  The  disease  is  constitu- 
tional at  the  very  beginning  and  is  not  confined  to  the  chancre.  The  chancre 
is  a small  hard  swelling  and  disappears  with  the  secondary  symptoms  whether 
it  is  treated  or  not.  No  pus  comes  from  the  chancre  but  if  there  are  false 
chancres,  or  chancroids,  pus  may  form.  Chancroid  is  a local  disease  and 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


?>i\2 


these  false  chancres  are  soft.  Chancroids  appear  in  from  3 to  9 days  after 
exposure  and  there  are  usually  more  than  one.  If  more  than  one  true 
chancres  appear  they  all  appear  at  once. 

Secondary  Stage. — Fever  is  an  early  symptom  and  sometimes  goes  to 
104  or  105  degrees  but  is  usually  at  about  101  degrees.  The  skin  eruptions 
may  occur  in  limited  areas  or  they  may  be  widely  distributed  over  the  whole 
body  and  even  involve  the  face.  As  this  stage  advances  the  eruption  may  be 
papular  and  finally  pustular.  At  the  angles  of  the  mouth  or  at  the  anus  there 
come  the  mucous  patches  or  ulcers.  Also  warty  growths  called  syphilitic 
condylomata.  Falling  of  the  hair  sometimes  occurs  and  the  finger  nails  may 
become  loosened  and  drop  off. 

Tertiary  Stage. — The  skin  lesions  are  more  severe  than  in  the  secondary 
stage.  Gummata  come  in  different  parts  of  the  body,  developing  in  the  skin 
and  internal  organs.  Lesions  of  the  nervous  system  usually  occur  late  but 
may  appear  in  6 months.  They  usually  come  within  the  first  10  years  and 
seldom  as  late  as  20  years.  The  cases  may  be  mild  or  very  severe.  The 
nerve  lesions  assume  many  forms  of  disease. 

TREATMENT. — During  the  primary  and  secondary  stages,  Hare  recom- 
mends full  doses  of  protoiodide  of  mercury  in  compressed  tablet  form.  The 
dose  is  1/4  grain  3 times  a day,  increased  by  1 or  2 quarters  each  day  until  the 
patient  shows  distinct  evidence  of  the  full  systemic  effect  of  the  drug,  as 
shown  by  loose  bowels  or  tender  teeth  and  slight  salivation.  (Use  tablet 
triturate.)  After  the  effects  of  the  drug  are  manifest  the  dose  should  be  dimin- 
ished one-half  and  kept  at  this  point.  If  necessary,  increase  the  dose  the 
second  time  if  the  symptoms  of  syphilis  increase.  If  necessary,  use  blue  oint- 
ment rubbed  into  the  skin  once  a day,  using  1 dram.  Choose  a different  spot 
each  time  and  rub  for  a long  time.  Continue  the  treatment  in  other  ways 
if  necessary. 

For  the  tertiary  stage  administer  iodide  of  potash,  sodium  or  strontium. 
It  usually  requires  100  grains  a day.  Use  a saturated  solution  (1  grain  to  1 
minim  of  water,  dissolved)  and  give  10  minims  in  a dessert  spoonful  of  the 
compound  syrup  of  sarsaparilla  3 times  a day.  Give  this  dose  an  hour  after 
meals  and  increase  each  day  from  1 to  5 drops  at  a dose. 

A good  remedy  is  to  put  from  % to  1 ounce  of  iodide  of  potash  into  a pint 
of  simple  syrup  and  add  2 ounces  of  each  of  the  following  herbs  in  fluid 
extract  form — stillingia,  corydalis,  yellow  dock,  burdock,  poke  root  and  sarsa- 
parilla. Take  a teaspoonful  3 times  a day. 

GONORRHEAL  RHEUMATISM. 

(Arthritis.) 

Put  a splint  on  the  joint  to  keep  it  at  rest  and  apply  a 50%  ichthyol  oint- 
ment on  the  joint.  Give  iodide  of  potash  internally. 

NOCTURNAL  EMISSIONS. 

After  a certain  age  these  emissions  are  very  likely  to  occur  with  any  man. 
There  is  no  need  to  be  alarmed  when  they  are  not  too  frequent.  Quacks  make 
money  from  poor  scared  creatures  who  are  fearful  of  terrible  consequences. 
Once  or  twice  a week  will  not  injure. 

TREATMENT.— Don’t  worry  about  them.  Don’t  sleep  with  too  much 
covering.  Keep  your  thoughts  from  such  matters.  Sleep  on  a hard  mattress 


A CHAPTER  FOR  MEN. 


363 


At  bed  time,  if  you  do  not  sleep  well  and  are  nervous  and  restless,  take  20 
grains  of  bromide  of  sodium  or  potassium.  Sometimes  1/100  of  a grain  of 
hyoscine  at  bed  time  is  good.  Avoid  stimulating  foods  and  drinks.  Bathe 
the  scrotum  with  cold  water  before  retiring.  Hop  tea  is  very  good  when  taken 
regularly. 

The'  homeopathic  treatment  is  to  take  the  second  dilution  of  China  and 
the  third  dilution  of  phosphoric  acid  3 times  a day. 

Doctor  the  mind  by  not  worrying. 

ENLARGED  OR  INFLAMED  PROSTATE  GLAND. 

This  is  a gland  in  the  urethra  near  the  bladder.  The  gland  enlarges  some 
in  later  life  and  in  some  cases  it  enlarges  a great  deal.  In  such  cases  it  is 
difficult  and  sometimes  impossible  to  pass  water  and  a catheter  must  then  be 
used.  Gonorrhea  sometimes  causes  prostatitis  or  inflammation  of  this  gland. 

TREATMENT. — Rest  in  bed  and  regulate  the  bowels.  Apply  leeches 
to  the  perineum  or  apply  fomentations  of  hops.  Give  mild  drinks  to  render 
the  urine  mild.  An  operation  may  be  necessary. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Give  the  third  trituration  of  Conium  4 times 
a day. 


WOMAN’S  DEPARTMENT 

DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 


DISORDERS  OF  MENSTRUATION. 


ABSENCE  OF  MENSES— (AMENORRHEA). 

DESCRIPTION. — This  term  is  applied  to  those  cases  in  which  menstru- 
ation has  never  appeared.  Secondary  amenorrhea  or  suppressed  menses  is 
applied  to  those  cases  in  which  menstruation  has  ceased  after  once  having 
been  established. 

CAUSES.-^ 

1.  Defective  development  of  the  organs  of  generation. 

2.  Premature  atrophy  or  dwindling  of  those  organs. 

3.  Injury  and  local  disease. 

4.  Acute  and  chronic  general  diseases. 

5.  Mental  disturbances.  . 

Menstruation  is  often  absent  in  typhoid  fever.  It  is  commonly  absent 
in  anemia,  chlorosis,  consumption  and  malaria.  It  frequently  results  from  a 
change  of  climate  and  surroundings  and  the  absence  continues  until  the  per- 
son becomes  adapted  to  the  new  environment.  It  is  seen  in  immigrants  and 
in  persons  who  move  from  the  country  into  large  cities.  It  is  often  caused 
by  over-work,  either  physical  or  mental,  and  also  by  an  insufficient  amount 
and  poor  quality  of  food.  It  is  quite  common  in  school  girls. 

It  is  sometimes  due  to  the  excessive  general  development  of  fat,  even 
in  young  women  who  are  apparently  in  good  general  health.  It  is  frequently 
associated  with  insanity.  The  fear  of  pregnancy  after  illicit  intercourse  some- 
times produces  it.  Fright,  grief,  anxiety,  anger  and  getting  wet  often  cause  it. 
In  some  cases  it  is  hard  to  discover  any  cause.  Persons  subject  to  it  may 
have  a general  periodical  disturbance  that  marks  the  times  at  which  the 
flow  should  occur. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  may  be  headache,  flashes  of  heat,  nervousness, 
nausea  and  vomiting  and  a feeling  of  fullness  and  pain  in  the  lower  bowel. 
Various  skin  eruptions  may  occur  as  the  result  of  amenorrhea,  as  in  other 
diseases  of  the  female  generative  organs.  The  poor  health,  both  mental  and 
physical,  that  usually  accompanies  amenorrhea  is  often  thought  by  the  pa- 
tient and  her  friends  to  be  the  result,  rather  than  the  cause  as  it  really  is,  of 
the  arrested  menses. 

TREATMENT. — This,  necessarily,  must  depend  upon  the  cause  of  the 
condition.  If  it  is  due  to  defective  development  of  the  womb  and  the  ovaries, 
little  can  be  done.  For  this  a doctor  must  be  called.  Most  cases  demand 
general  toning  treatment.  Regulate  the  mode  of  life.  Fresh  air,  exercise,  sun- 
shine, baths  and  pelvic  massage  continued  for  a long  time  will  help.  There 
should  be  less  of  study  and  more  of  active  outdoor  life.  Change  of  air  and 
surroundings  is  sometimes  helpful. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Improve  the  general  condition  by  giving  a prep- 
aration composed  of  arsenic,  iron  and  nux  vomica.  Take  four  tablets  a day. 

364 


DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 


365 


You  can  buy  these  tablets  in  any  drug  store.  Or,  Blaud’s  pills  are  also 
very  good.  Take  four  pills  a day.  Fat  should  be  decreased  by  diet  and 
exercise.  The  bowels  should  be  kept  regular. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Put  15  drops  of  the  second  dilution  of  China 
into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every  3 hours  for  weak- 
ness resulting  from  an  acute  illness. 

To  blonde  girls  and  women  give  the  sixth  trituration  of  Pulsatilla.  Give 

2 tablets  4 times  a day. 

To  brunettes  give  the  sixth  trituration  of  Sepia.  Give  2 tablets  4 times 
a day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Bitter  Tonic. — The  following  bitter  tonic  formula  is  a good  one.  Take 
1 pound  each  of  poplar  bark,  golden  seal,  columbo  root  and  the  bark  of  the  root 
or  bayberry : 6 ounces  each  of  capsicum  and  cloves  and  4 pounds  of  loaf  sugar. 
Pulverize  all,  sift,  and  mix.  The  dose  is  from  a teaspoonful  to  a tablespoonful 

3 times  a day.  Or,  you  can  put  1 ounce  of  this  mixture  into  a quart  of  wine 
and  take  a wine-glassful  3 times  a day. 

2.  Baths,  Etc. — In  case  of  delayed  or  obstructed  menstruation  the  patient 
should  take  a warm  foot  or  hip  bath  twice  a day  a few  days  before  the  period. 
Upon  retiring  at  night  apply  warm  wet  cloths  to  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen. 

ACUTE  SUPPRESSION  OF  MENSES  DURING  A MENSTRUAL 

PEPJOD. 

Causes  and  Preventive  Treatment. — 

The  causes  are  getting  wet  and  chilled.  Excitement,  grief  and  anger 
also  cause  it.  Taking  cold  is  another  cause  of  suppression  of  the  menses  and 
the  flow  is  sometimes  checked  by  taking  vinegar. 

In  the  chapter  for  girls  special  attention  is  called  to  the  care  of  girls 
just  entering  puberty.  It  might  be  well,  even  at  the  expense  of  repetition 
to  emphasize  what  is  there  written.  When  a girl  becomes  unwell  ” the 
first  time  she  must  give  special  care  to  herself,  in  addition  to  what  has  been 
taken  before  this  time,  in  preparing  herself  physically  to  enter  this  period  of 
her  life. 

She  should  not  do  anything  that  will  cause  much  anxiety,  worry,  fatigue 
or  sleeplessness.  She  must  not  study  much.  Girls  frequently  over  study 
at  this  time  and  many  are  fearfully  pale  and  run  down  and  suffer  much 
from  headaches.  Such  girls  should  be  kept  out  of  school.  Good  health  is  of 
even  more  importance  than  a book  education. 

When  the  flow  comes  she  should  be  quieter  than  usual  and  be  careful  not 
to  take  cold.  She  should  not  get  her  feet  wet.  If  her  shoes  are  wet  they  must 
be  changed  immediately.  Taking  cold  is  a common  cause  of  the  stopping  of 
the  flow.  Some  girls  and  women  seem  to  be  able  to  do  almost  anything  at 
this  time  but  such  is  not  the  case  with  many  and  even  those  who  do  not  suffer 
at  the  time  are  likely  to  reap  the  effects  in  later  life. 

The  idea  of  a girl’s  going  to  school  when  she  is  first  unwell  or  at  any 
time  when  she  is  unwell  and  sitting  for  hours  with  wet  shoes,  stockings  and 
skirts  is  monstrous  and  yet  this  is  frequently  done.  How  many  girls  and 
women  go  to  a dance  when  they  are  unwell  and  dance  themselves  into  a per- 
spiration, then  go  to  a cooler  part  of  the  building  and  sit  down  without  any 
extra  wraps ! The  result  is  a cold  and  the  stopping  of  the  flow  for  that  time. 


366 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


The  next  time  the  menses  are  likely  to  be  painful' and  the  flow  clotted  and 
watery  and  the  girl  is  in  luck  if  she  is  able  to  be  up  and  around.  If  she 
escapes  inflammation  of  the  womb  and  congestion  and  inflammation  of  the 
ovaries  she  is  very  fortunate.  Girls  and  women  cannot  take  too  good  care 
of  themselves  during  the  menstrual  period. 

TREATMENT.— 

Rest  in  bed  and  take  good  hot  foot  baths  or  sitz  baths.  A sitz  bath  is 
taken  by  sitting  over  steam  arising  from  a pail  of  hot  water.  Take  hot  drinks 
or  herb  teas  made  from  hops,  tansy  or  pennyroyal.  These  should  be  taken 
until  they  cause  free  sweating.  Apply  warm  fomentations  of  hops  or  other 
herbs  to  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen.  The  object  is  to  produce  sweating  and 
if  this  is  done  soon  after  the  suppression  the  flow  is  very  likely  to  be  started 
again. 

Aconite  taken  in  %-drop  doses  every  hour  for  6 hours  will  also  aid. 
Take  special  care  of  yourself  during  the  succeeding  interval  and  when  it  is 
time  for  the  next  period.  A bitter  herb  tonic,  such  as  that  given  for  amen- 
orrhea, is  good  to  be  taken  during  the  interval  if  you  need  upbuilding.  Uni- 
corn root,  beth  root  or  blessed  thistle  is  also  good  in  the  tea  form. 

Some  years  ago  a friend  called  my  attention  to  the  virtue  of  the  bark 
of  boxwood  when  made  into  a tea  for  girls  with  disordered  menses.  My 
friend  learned  of  this  through  his  mother  who  had  a great  knowledge  of  herb 
remedies.  Since  then  I have  frequently  had  occasion  to  prescribe  this  tea  and 
have  found  it  of  great  value  in  such  cases.  Make  the  tea  by  using  2 ounces  of 
the  bark  of  boxwood  to  a pint  of  water  and  drink  an  ounce  of  this  tea  three 
times  a day. 

If  you  are  married  and  the  menstruation  is  very  slight  when  you  have 
usually  been  regular  and  had  a free  flow,  then  it  may  be  that  you  are  preg- 
nant. In  such  a case,  of  course,  you  are  not  to  use  anything  to  bring  on  the 
flow.  The  above  treatment  is  only  for  suppression  from  the  causes  above 
given. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Tansy,  Hops,  Pennyroyal,  Ginger,  Etc. — For  suppression  of  the  menses 
apply  hot  poultices  of  tansy  and  hops  to  the  abdomen  and  drink  freely  of 
tansy,  pennyroyal,  ginger  or  motherwort  tea.  These  are  all  good. 

2.  Verwine  Tea. — For  suppressed  menses  a tea  made  of  verwine  root 
is  highly  recommended.  Take  half  a teacupful  3 times  a day  for  a few  days 
before  time  for  the  menses. 

SCANTY  MENSTRUATION. 

Causes  and  Treatment. — 

The  causes  and  treatment  are  somewhat  similar  to  those  given  for  amen- 
orrhea. Attend  to  any  womb  trouble  that  may  be  the  cause. 

Before  leaving  the  subject  of  suppressed  menstruation  from  getting  wet 
or  cold  and  like  causes  I want  to  impress  upon  mothers  the  necessity  of 
attending  to  this  trouble  immediately.  By  so  doing  you  will  save  your 
daughters  from  much  trouble,  pain  and  suffering. 

EXCESSIVE  MENSTRUAL  FLOW— (MENORRHAGIA). 

Causes. — The  causes  are  inflammation  of  the  womb,  ovaries  or  tubes ; 
fibroids  or  tumors  of  the  womb ; and  debility  or  a general  run  down  condition. 


DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 


367 


TREATMENT.— 

Remove  the  causes  by  attending  to  the  diseases  and  build  up  the  system 
with  tonics. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Take  pills  or  tablets  made  of  arsenic,  iron 
and  nux  vomica.  Take  4 tablets  a day.  These  may  be  bought  at  any 
drug  store.  The  compound  tincture  of  cinchona  and  gentian  used  together 
as  a bitter  tonic  is  also  good.  Use  equal  parts  of  each  and  take  a teaspoonful 
every  4 hours. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Every  3 hours  alternate  the  second  dilution 
of  China  with  the  third  dilution  of  Phosphoric  Acid.  Prepare,  by  putting 
10  or  15  drops  of  each  of  these  medicines  into  separate  glasses  half  full 
of  water.  Give  two  teaspoonfuls  of  either  at  a dose. 

Herb  Remedies  and  Combinations. — The  bitter  tonic  given  under  amenor- 
rhea is  good  for  this  trouble. 

Another  good  remedy  is  to  take  1 ounce  of  prickly  ash  bark,  3 ounces  of 
ginger  root,  3 ounces  of  wild  cherry  bark,  5 ounces  of  balmony,  5 ounces  of 
golden  seal,  7 ounces  of  poplar  bark  and  2%  pounds  of  good  sugar.  All  are 
to  be  made  fine,  sifted,  and  well  mixed.  The  dose  is  a heaping  teaspoonful 
in  a little  boiling  water  3 times  a day. 

Columbo  root,  orange  peel,  unicorn,  prince’s  feather  and  Solomon’s  seal 
are  all  good. 

Five  drops  of  oil  of  fireweed  every  1 to  3 hours  is  very  good  when  the 
bleeding  must  be  stopped  quickly.  Put  this  on  sugar  and  take  internally. 
This  remedy  is  also  very  good  for  dysentery. 

When  a girl  or  woman  has  menorrhagia  from  debility,  these  bitter  tonics 
and  restorative  medicines  will  do  much  good.  If  the  trouble  is  due  to  fibroid 
tumors  of  the  womb,  or  to  inflammation  of  the  womb,  ovaries  or  tubes,  of 
course  such  conditions  must  be  treated. 

PEOPLE’S  PIOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  General  Instructions. — In  case  of  profuse  menstruation  the  patient 
should  lie  down  upon  the  bed  and  eat  and  drink  nothing  of  a stimulating 
nature.  Keep  the  room  cool  and  the  patient  lightly  covered.  The  feet  should 
be  put  into  warm  water.  If  the  flow  is  excessive  the  hips  should  be  elevated 
higher  than  the  head  and  cloths  wrung  out  of  vinegar  and  water  should  be 
applied  to  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen. 

2.  Charcoal,  Geranium  and  Alum. — For  profuse  menstruation  take  equal 
parts  of  powdered  charcoal,  geranium  and  alum.  Mix  these  and  give  15 
grains  every  10  or  20  minutes. 

3.  Cinnamon  and  Red  Raspberry  Leaves. — For  profuse  menstruation 
drink  freely  of  a tea  made  of  red  raspberry  leaves  and  cinnamon  bark  or  cinna- 
mon bark  alone.  This  remedy  will  be  found  very  effective. 

4.  Alum  and  Nutmeg. — For  profuse  menstruation  a Philadelphia  phy- 
sician recommends  the  following  simple  but  effective  prescription.  Take  5 
to  20  grains  of  powdered  alum  and  2 grains  of  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  this  into 
a powder  and  give  every  hour  in  syrup  made  of  white  sugar. 

PAINFUL  AND  DIFFICULT  MENSTRUATION— 
(DYSMENORRHEA). 

CAUSES.— This  trouble  is  very  common  among  girls  and  women.  Tak- 
ing cold  at  or  just  before  the  menstrual  period  and  thus  causing  suppression 


368 


THE  PEOPLE.’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


or  partial  suppression  of  the  flow  at  the  time,  is  one  of  the  causes  of  this 
trouble  and  especially  is  this  true  if  this  carelessness  is  repeated  or  continued. 
Women  should  be  very  careful  not  to  do  anything  to  cause  either  an  entire 
or  partial  suppression  of  the  menstrual  flow.  The  main  causes  of  this  disease 
are  womb  troubles ; laceration  or  tearing  of  the  neck  of  the  womb,  generally 
caused  by  childbirth ; displacements,  backwards  and  forwards,  partially  clos- 
ing the  cervical  canal;  and  stenosis  which  is  the  almost  entire  closing  of  the 
mouth  of  the  womb  and  consequent  narrowing  of  the  cervical  canal.  In  un- 
married women  stenosis  is  the  most  frequent  cause.  In  married  women  the 
causes  are  disease,  displacement,  inflammation  and  stenosis. 

SYMPTOMS. — Pain  is  the  main  symptom  and  it  is  very  severe. 
TREATMENT.— 

The  treatment  is  to  give  hot  teas  and  drinks  and  hot  foot  baths  or  sitz 
baths.  Apply  the  hot  water  bag  over  the  womb  or  hot  fomentations  of  hops. 
During  the  interval  the  bitter  tonic  given  under  “ Amenorrhea  ” is  good.  For 
the  spasms  and  pain,  motherwort,  ginger  or  valerian  may  be  united  with  other 
herb  remedies.  The  “ Mother’s  Cordial  ” given  under  “ Leucorrhea  ” is  also 
good  to  build  up  the  system.  First  use  the  means  mentioned  but  if  the  womb 
is  displaced  or  the  canal  is  too  small  the  doctor  must  attend  the  case.  It  may 
be  necessary  to  dilate  the  cervical  canal  or  curette  the  womb. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Put  10  drops  of  the  first  dilution  of  Cocculus 
into  a glass  % full  of  water  and  give  2 teaspoonfuls  every  10  minutes  until 
relieved. 

During  the  intervals  give  one  tablet  4 times  a day  of  the  third  tritura- 
tion of  Pulsatilla  or  use  the  sixth  trituration  of  Sepia  in  the  same  way. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Unicorn  Root. — It  is  best  in  powder  or  tincture  form.  Take  from  5 
to  10  grains  of  the  powder  3 times  a day.  The  dose  of  the  tincture  is  5 drops 
in  water  3 times  a day  and  the  dose  of  the  fluid  extract  is  from  15  to  20  drops. 
This  may  be  combined  with  other  remedies. 

2.  Cramp  Bark. — Cramp  bark  or  high  cranberry  bark  is  good  for  pain- 
ful menses.  The  dose  of  the  decoction  is  2-  ounces  2 or  3 times  a day.  The 
dose  of  the  fluid  extract  is  from  15  to  30  drops.  This  may  also  be  combined 
with  other  remedies. 

3.  Blue  Cohosh. — A tea  made  by  boiling  an  ounce  of  blue  cohosh  in  a 
pint  of  water  is  good  for  d3^smenorrhea.  The  dose  is  from  1 to  4 ounces  3 or 
4 times  a day.  This  is  a womb  tonic  and  may  be  combined  with  black  cohosh 
and  unicorn  root.  You  can  then  use  the  fluid  extract,  the  dose  of  which  is 
from  15  to  20  drops.  These  remedies  work  best  in  combination. 

METRORRHAGIA. 

This  usually  means  an  excessive  flow  between  the  menstrual  periods. 

CAUSES. — The  causes  are  chronic  inflammation  of  the  lining  of  the 
womb,  polypus,  cancer,  or  fibroid  tumors  in  the  womb. 

TREATMENT.— 

Remove  the  causes.  Treat  the  inflammation  and  remove  the  polypi  and 
fibroids.  Keep  up  the  health  by  tonics  such  as  tablets  containing  arsenic,  iron 
and  nux  vomica.  These  tablets  can  be  bought  at  any  drug  store.  Use  bitter 
herbs  such  as  columbo,  gentian  and  cinchona. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Put  10  drops  of  the  second  dilution  of  China 
into  half  a glass  of  water  and  take  2 teaspoonfuls  every  2 or  3 hours. 


DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 


369 


DISEASES  OF  THE  VULVA. 

Description  of  the  Parts. — The  vulva  is  the  outside  fleshy  part  that 
protects  the  opening  to  the  vagina.  About  half  an  inch  above  this  opening  is 
the  opening  of  the  urethra  and  above  this  is  the  clitoris.  The  fleshy  part  is 
made  up  largely  of  the  labia  majora  and  labia  minora,  or  the  large  and  small 
lips.  Between  the  opening  of  the  vagina  and  the  anus,  or  opening  of  the  bowel, 
is  a muscular  part  called  the  “ perineum.”  This  has  a great  deal  to  do  in  labor 
and  is  generally  torn  to  a greater  or  less  degree ; sometimes  back  to  and  into 
the  bowel.  This  is  caused  by  a difficult  labor  and  carelessness.  The  perineum 
makes  up  part  of  what  is  called  the  pelvic  floor.  This  floor  supports  the 
structure  above  (vagina,  womb,  etc.)  and  when  this  gives  way  the  supports 
or  ligaments  have  too  much  to  hold  and  hence  sag,  causing  falling  of  the 
organs. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  VULVA— (VULVITIS). 

This  is  not  a com.mon  disease. 

CAUSES. — Gonorrhea  is  a frequent  cause  of  vulvitis.  The  disease  is 
also  caused  by  irritating  discharges  from  the  vagina  and  also  by  sweat, 
smegma,  urine,  thread  worms,  and  uncleanliness  and  especially  in  hot  weather. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  mucous  membrane  is  swollen  and  red  and  an  abun- 
dant discharge  covers  the  parts.  There  is  local  pain.  Sometimes  one  of  the 
lips  only  is  affected  and  an  abscess  forms. 

TREATMENT.— 

If  an  abscess  forms  it  should  be  opened  early  and  scraped.  Rest  in  a 
lying  position  and  observe  cleanliness.  Separate  the  lips  and  bathe  and  clean 
frequently  with  warm  water.  After  bathing  and  cleansing  the  parts  a local 
wash  of  boracic  acid  will  be  found  good.  Use  a dram  of  boracic  acid  to  a 
pint  of  water.  If  it  comes  from  gonorrhea  use  a 2 per  cent,  solution  of  nitrate 
of  silver  locally  after  the  parts  have  been  thoroughly  cleansed.  All  parts  must 
be  thoroughly  treated.  If  of  gonorrheal  origin  the  disease  may  remain  at  the 
mouth  of  the  urethra,  in  the  ducts  of  the  glands,  etc.  All  traces  of  the  disease 
must  be  eradicated  before  the  patient  is  discharged  for  the  septic  material  may 
be  carried  from  the  diseased  organs  to  the  vagina,  womb,  tubes  and  ovaries 
with  terrible  results.  Any  inflammation  of  the  urethra  must  also  be  properly 
treated. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  VULVO-VAGINAL  GLANDS. 

These  glands  are  two  in  number,  about  the  size  of  a bean  and  are  situated 
deep  in  the  inner  part  of  the  large  lips  or  labia  majora.  The  duct  of  the  gland 
is  about  an  inch  long.  This  duct  usually  becomes  inflamed  in  vulvitis  and  the 
inflammation  may  extend,  producing  an  abscess  of  this  gland.  Inflammation 
may  also  occur  separately  from  septic  or  gonorrheal  infection.  When  the  duct 
alone  is  inflamed  it  should  be  laid  open  with  scissors  and  knife  and  cauterized 
with  nitrate  of  silver  stick  or  pure  carbolic  acid.  Of  course  a physician  will 
be  required  for  this  operation. 

SUPPURATION  OF  THE  VULVO-VAGINAL  GLANDS. 

Symptoms. — This  is  accompanied  with  marked  swelling  which  may  ex- 
tend to  the  anus,  or  opening  of  the  bowel.  Pain  is  always  severe.  Suppura- 
tion is  first  apparent  on  the  inner  surface  of  the  large  labia  or  lips.  If  not 

24 


370 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


treated  openings  appear  and  it  becomes  chronic.  A thin,  milky  or  greenish, 
matter-like  fluid  may  be  pressed  out  of  the  duct  or  the  fistulous  openings.  In- 
fection from  this  discharge  may  be  communicated  to  man,  or  may  ascend  the 
genital  tract  producing  inflammation  of  the  womb  or  of  the  fallopian  tubes. 
TREATMENT.— 

Make  a free  cut  immediately  into  the  lip  at  the  junction  of  the  skin  and 
mucous  membrane,  wipe  out  the  interior  with  carbolic  acid  and  pack  the 
cavity  with  gauze.  If  chronic,  the  hardened  gland,  duct  and  fistulous  tracts 
must  be  cut  out  and  the  wound  packed  with  gauze.  Sometimes  the  wound  is 
closed  immediately  with  catgut  sutures.  This  condition  is  quite  frequent.  It 
is  sometimes  caused  by  injuries  and  it  sometimes  comes  during  pregnancy 
when  it  must  be  immediately  attended  to  for  the  reasons  given  above. 

ITCHING  OF  THE  VULVA— (PRURITUS  VULVA). 

CAUSES. — Itching  of  the  vulva  is  a very  annoying  trouble.  The  causes 
are  many.  Eruptions  of  the  vulva,  such  as  eczema ; irritating  discharges  from 
the  vagina  and  womb ; cancer  of  the  womb ; thread  worms  and  irritation  from 
diabetic  urine  are  among  the  causes.  Diseases  of  the  womb,  tubes  and  ovaries 
are  also  causes  and  sometimes  it  is  impossible  to  find  the  cause.  It  is  sometimes 
very  severe  during  pregnancy. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  itching  may  be  so  severe  that  the  woman  cannot 
refrain  from  scratching  and  rubbing  the  parts  on  all  occasions.  She  becomes 
debarred  from  the  society  of  her  friends  and  seeks  relief  in  anodynes  and 
hypnotics.  The  itching  may  extend  into  the  vagina,  tc  the  skin  of  the  ab- 
domen, to  the  inner  part  of  the  thighs  and  to  the  anus. 

TREATMENT. — You  must  find  the  cause  if  possible.  Examine  any  va- 
ginal or  uterine  discharge.  Discharges  from  the  womb  may  be  absorbed  by 
placing  a pledget  of  cotton  against  the  womb  and  removing  frequently  so 
that  the  discharge  does  not  touch  the  vulva ; or,  the  parts  may  be  kept  clean 
by  frequent  douches.  In  children,  examine  the  stools  for  pin  worms.  Ex- 
amine the  urine  for  diabetes.  Treat  diseases  of  the  uterus,  tubes  and  ovaries. 
When  no  local  cause  can  be  found  treat  the  general  nutrition  of  the  patient. 
A gouty  condition  or  alcoholic  drinks,  rich  food,  fish  and  shell  fish  may  cause 
it.  In  case  of  diabetes  keep  the  parts  clean  of  the  urine  by  drying  after  each 
urination  and  dusting  with  a powder  consisting  of  equal  parts  of  subnitrate 
of  bismuth  and  prepared  chalk.  The  following  applications  are  also  good  but 
they  are  poison  and  should  be  used  with  care.  Mix  1/2  grain  of  bichloride  of 
mercury  with  an  ounce  of  emulsion  of  bitter  almonds  and  apply  twice  a day; 
or,  twice  a day  apply  a powder  consisting  of  1 grain  of  morphine  and  2 grains 
of  prepared  chalk.  Another  good  preparation  is  made  by  mixing  1 dram  of 
carbolic  acid  with  5 drams  each  of  tincture  of  opium,  tincture  of  iodine  and 
tincture  of  aconite.  Appy  once  or  twice  in  24  hours. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Borax  Water. — As  an  application  for  itching  of  the  private  parts  use 
a solution  made  by  dissolving  an  ounce  of  borax  in  a pint  of  rain  water. 

2.  Green  Tea. — Green  tea,  when  not  too  strong,  is  a good  application 
for  itching  of  the  privates. 

3.  Alum  Water. — Weak  alum  water  is  a good  wash  for  this  troublesome 
disease. 


DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 


371 


WARTS  OF  THE  VULVA— (PAPILLOMA). 

Causes. — These  are  usually  the  result  of  gonorrhea  or  syphilis  but  they 
may  be  caused  by  irritation  from  filth  or  by  the  leucorrhea  of  pregnancy. 
TREATMENT.— 

Small  ones  should  be  picked  up  with  forceps  and  clipped  off  with  curved 
scissors.  Large  ones  should  be  cut  off  and  the  wounds  closed  with  stitches. 

ADHESIONS  OF  THE  CLITORIS. 

This  organ  is  somewhat  similar  to  the  male  organ  and  is  situated  above 
the  urethral  opening  and  is  partly  covered  by  the  folds  of  the  vulva.  Ad- 
hesions, between  the  glans  clitoris  proper  and  the  hood  which  covers  it,  are 
exceedingly  common.  No  trouble  may  come  from  this  unless  an  accumulation 
of  smegma  or  thick  secretion  takes  place  or  irritation  is  produced  by  the  pres- 
ence of  any  hard  substance.  This  should  always  be  looked  after  in  a child 
who  has  any  irritation  or  redness  around  the  vulva.  Little  girls  frequently 
put  their  hands  there  and  rub.  In  such  a case  the  parts  must  be  examined. 
You  will  then  be  very  likely  to  find  the  parts  adherent  or  dirty  the  same  as 
is  often  the  case  with  the  penis  in  a boy.  The  irritation  causes  rubbing  of 
the  parts  and  often  the  child  becomes  an  involuntary  masturbator. 
TREATMENT.— 

The  adherent  parts  should  be  loosened.  This  is  easily  done  and  the  raw 
surface  should  then  be  covered  with  clean  vaseline  and  the  patient  should 
keep  from  walking  as  long  as  there  is  pain.  The  hood  should  be  drawn  back 
and  the  vaseline  applied  every  day  for  two  weeks  to  prevent  adhesions. 

I once  treated  a little  child  a few  months  old  who  had  slight  convulsions. 
After  freeing  the  clitoris  of  the  hood  the  convulsions  ceased.  If  you  see 
children  of  either  sex  frequently  putting  their  hands  to  their  private  parts, 
those  parts  are  either  dirty  or  adherent  and  need  attention.  Bad  habits  can  be 
prevented  by  timely  attention  to  this  trouble  and  the  operation  is  very  easily 
performed. 

DISEASES  OF  THE  VAGINA. 

Description  of  Parts. — The  vagina  lies  back  of  the  bladder  and  in  front 
of  the  rectum  and  extends  from  the  vulva  to  the  womb.  The  vagina  ex- 
tends upward  and  backward  as  a transverse  slit  in  the  pelvic  floor.  It  is  the 
canal  leading  from  the  vulva  to  the  womb.  The  front  wall  is  2V2  inches  long 
and  the  back  wall  is  3%  inches  long.  The  walls  are  triangular  in  shape,  being 
broader  above  than  below. ^ At  the  upper  end  the  cervical  portion,  or  neck,  of 
the  womb  can  be  seen.  This  cavity  is  lined  with  mucous  membrane  and  this 
is  subject  to  disease. 

LEUCORRHEA— WHITES. 

Causes. — This  is  a very  common  and  a very  annoying  trouble.  It  is 
caused  by  diseases  of  the  ovaries,  tubes,  vagina  and  womb.  It  is  also  caused 
by  a tear  of  the  cervix,  ulceration,  debility,  anemia,  chlorosis,  etc.  A relaxed 
condition  of  the  vagina  and  surrounding  parts  and  suppressed  and  irregular 
menses  also  cause  it.  Frequently  it  comes  before  and  after  the  menstrual 
period.  It  is  a symptom  in  many  diseases. 

Symptoms. — There  is  a constant  oozing  of  a thin  white  matter  from 
the  vagina.  Sometimes  this  matter  is  yellow  or  brown.  There  is  pain  in  the 


372 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


back  and  loins  and  this  pain  is  increased  by  exercise.  There  is  a wasting  away 
of  the  flesh  and  a weary  and  dejected  look.  Sometimes  the  discharge  is  irri- 
tating and  offensive. 

TREATMENT.— 

If  the  disease  is  caused  by  systemic  trouble,  such  as  chlorosis,  the  system 
should  be  built  up  with  tonics.  If  it  comes  from  diseases  of  the  womb,  etc., 
these  diseases  should  be  treated.  There  are  many  ways  of  treating  it  locally — 
by  douches,  vaginal  cones,  etc.  Injections  are  certainly  good  for  leucorrhea. 
Before  using  medical  injections  it  is  well  to  wash  out  the  vagina  with  warm 
water  and  some  antiseptic  solution  like  carbolic  acid  (1  teaspoonful  to  a pint 
of  water),  listerine,  glyco-thymoline,  etc.  Then,  when  the  vagina  is  cleansed, 
use  some  healing  medicine  like  a tea  or  decoction  made  from  golden  seal,  witch 
hazel,  tannic  acid  or  white  oak  bark.  Golden  seal  is  good  but  it  stains  the 
clothing.  Lloyd’s  hydrastis,  or  golden  seal,  is  colorless  but  you  must  use  more 
of  it.  Use  4 teaspoonfuls  of  it  to  a pint  of  water  as  an  injection.  These  in- 
jections and  hot  water  injections  are  good  cleansers  and  healers.  Boric  acid, 
beth  root  or  pinus  canadensis  also  make  good  injections.  The  following  is  a 
good  injection.  Take  cranesbill,  witch  hazel,  black  cohosh  and  golden  seal, 
half  an  ounce  of  each,  coarsely  bruised,  and  boiling  water  1 quart;  mix  the 
articles  thoroughly  and  steep  with  gentle  heat  in  a closed  vessel  for  two  hours ; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  strain.  This  is  a fine  injection  for  leucorrhea,  and 
falling  of  the  womb  and  bowel. 

From  10  to  30  drops  of  tincture  of  myrrh  three  times  a day  is  good  for 
leucorrhea.  The  following  is  a good  tonic  for  leucorrhea  and  falling  of  the 
womb.  Mix  % ounce  of  comfrey  root,  2 ounces  of  elecampane  root  and  1 
ounce  of  horehound  and  add  3 quarts  of  water.  Boil  from  3 quarts  down  to 
3 pints;  strain,  and  add  while  warm,  % ounce  of  powdered  beth  root,  1 pint  of 
brandy  and  1 pound  of  loaf  sugar.  The  dose  is  from  % to  % of  a wine-glass- 
ful 3 or  4 times  a day. 

Attend  to  the  diseases  that  produce  leucorrhea ; take  tonics  and  strength- 
ening remedies  and  take  plenty  of  exercise.  Some  good  home  remedies  are 
given  and  the  “ Mother’s  Cordial  ” will  be  found  especially  good. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  “ Mother’s  Cordial  ” or  Compound  Syrup  of  Partridge  Berry. — This  is 
a uterine  tonic  and  is  a good  remedy  for  leucorrhea,  amenorrhea,  dysmenor- 
rhea, menorrhagia,  spasms,  cramps,  and  to  overcome  a tendency  to  miscar- 
riage. The  dose  is  from  2 to  4 ounces  3 times  a day.  One  or  two  doses  daily 
for  several  weeks  before  confinement  is  good.  Take  1 pound  of  partridge 
berry,  4 ounces  of  helonias  root,-4  ounces  of  high  cranberry  bark  and  4 ounces 
of  blue  cohosh  root.  Grind  and  mix  the  articles  together ; place  in  a convenient 
vessel ; cover  with  fourth  proof  brandy  and  steep  for  3 days.  Then  transfer 
all  to  a filtering  apparatus  and  gradually  add  brandy  until  3 pints  of  the  spirit- 
uous tincture  have  been  obtained,  which  reserve.  Then  continue  the  filtering 
with  hot  water  until  the  liquid  passes  tasteless.  Add  to  this  2 pounds  of 
granulated  sugar  and  evaporate  with  gentle  heat  to  5 pints;  remove  from  the 
fire;  add  the  reserved  3 pints  and  flavor  with  essence  of  sassafras. 

2.  Restorative  Bitters. — The  roots  and  flowers  used  should  all  be  bruised. 
Take  1 ounce  each  of  comfrey  root,  Solomon’s  seal  root  and  spikenard  root; 
% ounce  each  of  chamomile  flowers,  columbo  root  and  gentian  root;  4 pints 
of  sherry  wine  and  a sufficient  quantity  of  boiling  water.  Place  the  herbs  in 


DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 


373 


a vessel,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  allow  the  compound  to  steep  for  34 
hours,  keeping  it  closely  covered;  then  add  the  sherry  wine,  steep  for  14 
days,  press  and  filter.  The  dose  is  from  % to  3 fluid  ounces  3 or  4 times  a 
day.  This  is  a very  good  tonic  for  all  diseases  peculiar  to  females  and  it  is 
especially  good  for  leucorrhea,  menorrhagia,  amenorrhea,  weak  back,  etc. 

3.  Solomon’s  Seal,  Spikenard,  Wild  Cherry,  Peach  Root,  Etc. — Take  1 
ounce  each  of  bruised  spikenard  root,  Solomon’s  seal  root,  gentian,  wild 
cherry  bark  and  peach  root;  add  4 pints  of  boiling  water;  simmer  slowly  to  1 
pint  and  then  add  4 pints  of  native  wine.  Steep  for  4 days,  press,  filter  and 
add  3 ounces  of  loaf  sugar.  The  dose  is  from  % to  3 fluid  ounces  3 or  4 times 
a day.  This  is  good  for  leucorrhea  and  other  female  troubles. 

4.  Pulverized  Egg  Shells. — Burnt  and  pulverized  egg  shells  are  a good 
remedy  for  leucorrhea.  The  dose  is  10  grains  in  sweetened  milk. 

5.  Alum  Water. — If  the  leucorrhea  is  from  the  womb  take  1 dram  of 
tannic  acid,  % ounce  of  pulverized  alum,  and  1 quart  of  water  and  use  half 
this  quantity  night  and  morning  as  an  injection. 

6.  Alum  and  Honey  of  Roses. — Mix  1 dram  of  alum  with  1 ounce  of 
honey  of  roses  and  3 ounces  of  water.  Put  a tablespoonful  of  this  into  a cup 
of  water  and  use  as  an  injection  twice  a day. 

7.  Greet)  Tea. — For  leucorrhea  take  a sitting  bath  every  day  and  use  in- 
jections of  tepid  water  3 or  4 times  a day.  Injections  of  weak  green  tea  are 
excellent  for  many  cases. 

8.  Cider  and  Alum. — Injections  of  sweet  cider  or  a weak  solution  of 
alum  are  excellent  in  many  cases  of  leucorrhea. 

9.  Borax  and  Poppy  Heads. — Add  1%  ounces  of  pulverized  borax  to  a 
pint  of  tea  made  from  poppy  heads  and  use  this  as  an  injection.  This  is  fine 
for  whites,  or  leucorrhea. 

10.  Tannic  Acid  and  Alum. — Keep  the  bowels  open  and  use  injections 
made  by  dissolving  an  ounce  of  alum  and  3 drams  of  tannic  acid  in  a quart  of 
water.  One-third  of  this  quantity  should  be  used  as  an  injection  3 times  a 
day  for  leucorrhea. 

11.  Black  Cohosh  and  Tannic  Acid. — An  excellent  injection  for  leucor- 
rhea is  a decoction  of  black  cohosh  root  with  from  1 to  3 drams  of  tannic  acid 
added. 

13.  Golden  Seal  and  Cranesbill. — A strong  decoction  made  by  using  3 
parts  of  golden  seal  to  1 part  of  cranesbill  is  a very  valuable  injection  for  leu- 
corrhea. 

13.  Beth  Root. — From  3 to  4 ounces  of  a tea  made  of  beth  root  is  good 
for  leucorrhea  when  taken  internally  3 times  a day.  It  is  also  good  as  an 
injection. 

14.  Witch  Hazel. — After  the  vagina  has  been  thoroughly  syringed  and 
cleansed  use  witch  hazel  as  an  injection.  Half  an  ounce  in  water  is  usually 
used  at  each  injection  but  in  severe  cases  it  may  be  used  half  strength. 

15.  Golden  Seal. — Injections  of  golden  seal  tea  are  fine  for  leucorrhea. 

16.  Hemlock  Spruce. — A strong  decoction  of  hemlock  spruce  is  good  for 
leucorrhea  when  taken  internally  and  is  especially  good  when  used  as  an  injec- 
tion. It  is  also  good  for  falling  of  the  womb. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  VAGINA— (VAGINITIS). 

In  simple  vaginitis  the  membrane  remains  smooth.  Granular  vaginitis  is 


374 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


the  kind  usually  seen  and  in  this  the  papillae  are  infiltrated  with  small  ones 
and  are  much  enlarged  so  that  the  inflamed  part  has  a granular  appearance. 

SYMPTOMS  OF  THE  ACUTE  FORMS. — There  is  a dull  pain  and  a 
sense  of  fulness  in  the  pelvis  which  is  increased  by  walking,  standing,  and 
emptying  of  either  the  bowels  or  bladder.  There  is  also  a free  discharge  of 
serum  or  pus  which  may  be  mixed  with  blood.  The  character  of  the  dis- 
charge depends  upon  the  kind  and  period  of  the  disease.  If  the  acute  form  is 
neglected  it  may  pass  into  the  chronic  form.  It  usually  lingers  in  the  upper 
parts  of  the  vagina  in  the  corners  and  especially  is  this  true  if  the  vaginitis  is 
of  gonorrheal  origin.  By  careful  inspection  we  find  here  one  or  more  granular 
patches  of  inflammation  which  cause  a vaginal  discharge  from  which  man 
may  be  infected  and  from  which  infection  of  the  upper  portion  of  the  genital 
tract,  the  uterus,  and  fallopian  tubes  may  be  derived. 

TREATMENT.— 

Vaginitis,  especially  that  of  gonorrheal  origin,  should  be  treated  vigor- 
ously and  thoroughly  until  all  traces  of  it  are  gone.  Keep  as  quiet  as  pos- 
sible and  move  the  bowels  with  epsom  or  rochelle  salts.  Take,  3 times  in  24 
hours  while  lying  upon  the  back,  a vaginal  douche  of  boracic  acid  solution, 
using  1 dram  of  boracic  acid  to  a pint  of  water.  The  temperature  of  the 
solution  should  be  100  degrees.  If  the  disease  comes  from  gonorrhea  a warm 
bichloride  of  mercury  solution  should  be  used  in  the  same  way,  using  1 part 
of  the  medicine  to  5,000  parts'  of  water.  After  the  acute  symptoms  have  dis- 
appeared local  application  can  also  be  made  in  addition  to  the  douches.  Clean 
the  vaginal  surfaces  gently  with  warm  water  and  cotton.  If  there  is  much 
pain  apply  a 4 per  cent,  solution  of  cocaine  to  the  surfaces ; then  the  entire 
vaginal  surface  should  be  painted  with  a solution  of  bichloride  of  mercury 
(1  to  1,000).  Apply  daily  until  cured,  continuing  the  douches.  Tablets  of 
bichloride  of  mercury,  or  corrosive  sublimate  as  it  is  also  called,  can  be  bought 
at  any  drug  store  and  of  any  strength. 

In  simple  vaginitis  you  can  use  douches  of  boracic  acid,  1 dram  to  a pint 
of  water,  and  afterward  inject  a solution  of  golden  seal,  witch  hazel  or  white 
oak  bark.  These  last  are  to  be  used  after  the  acute  symptoms  are  past  and  no 
doctor  can  be  obtained.  Warm  salt  water  is  also  good. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — In  the  first  stages  use  the  second  dilution  of 
Aconite  and  after  the  first  24  hours  use  the  third  dilution  of  Belladonna.  When 
there  is  a mucous  discharge  use  the  third  trituration  of  Mercurius. 

DISEASES  OF  THE  WOMB. 


FALLING  OF  THE  WOMB— (PROLAPSUS  UTERI). 

Complete  prolapsus  or  falling  is  when  the  womb  protrudes  outside  the 
vagina.  This  is  very  unusual. 

CAUSES. — One  cause  is  injury  to  the  pelvic  floor  caused  by  tearing  the 
perineum  during  childbirth.  Other  causes  are  relaxation  of  the  womb  liga- 
ments from  too  frequent  labor,  old  age,  weakness,  heavy  lifting  and  falls  or 
anything  that  tends  to  weaken  the  supports  or  ligaments.  Getting  up  too  soon 
after  labor  by  those  whose  labor  is  very  hard  is  also  a cause. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are  backache,  weakness  of  the  legs,  a 
bearing  down  feeling  like  the  parts  would  come  out  and  crossing  of  the  legs. 
The  pain  in  the  back  frequently  disappears  when  lying  down.  Headache 


DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 


375 


situated  in  the  back  part  of  the  head,  pain  extending  down  the  back  part  of 
the  thighs  and  irritation  of  the  bladder  and  bowels  are  other  symptoms.  You 
can  feel  the  opening  of  the  womb  low  down  in  the  vagina.  This  disease  is 
readily  diagnosed  bv  examination  of  the  vagina. 

TREATMENT.-—  ^ 

First  of  all  restore  the  perineum  by  operating.  Rest  in  bed  and  assume 
the  chest  position  3 or  4 times  a day  for  from  5 to  15  minutes  at  a time.  Put 
the  chest  on  the  bed,  draw  the  knees  up  and  rest  on  them  and  the  chest.  This 
position  throws  the  womb  up  and  forward.  Keep  the  bowels  open.  Use  one 
or  two  hot  vaginal  douches  each  day  of  a 1 to  4,000  bichloride  solution  or  use 
home  remedies  as  injections.  Witch  hazel  is  very  good  or  beth  root  or  white 
oak  bark  tea.  These  injections  should  be  continued  for  a long  time.  Make  a 
strong  infusion  of  witch  hazel  and  inject  twice  a day.  If  the  womb  has  com- 
pletely protruded  it  must  be  put  back  carefully  with  the  hands  if  it  cannot 
be  put  back  by  assuming  the  knee-chest  position.  In  this  trouble  the  womb 
often  comes  out  after  a stool.  You  should  then  use  the  bichloride  douche  as 
it  is  cleansing  and  thoroughly  antiseptic.  Or,  if  you  do  not  have  this  solution 
you  should  wash  the  womb  with  warm  witch  hazel  tea ; then  anoint  the  fingers 
with  vaseline  and  gently  push  the  organ  back  into  the  vagina.  Then  inject 
cool  witch  hazel  and  remain  in  bed  for  several  days.  Continue  using  the  witch 
hazel  as  an  injection.  Use  the  bed  pan  for  the  bowels  and  the  urine  so  as  to 
avoid  getting  up.  Frequently  assume  the  knee-chest  position. 

If  the  perineum  is  in  good  condition,  pessaries  or  supports  are  found  use- 
ful in  many  cases.  Some  women  make  tampons  and  put  them  into  the  vagina. 
If  these  are  used  they  should  be  changed  frequently.  Stem  pessaries  or  sup- 
ports are  good  but  are  unpleasant  to  wear  and  in  time  the  hard  rubber  may 
irritate  the  womb.  I have  found  Farr’s  Prolapse  Uterine  Supporter,  of  the 
stem  kind,  to  be  very  good.  This  pessary  is  made  of  rubber  that  gives  enough 
to  be  worn  very  comfortably  and  successfully.  The  medium  size  is  usually 
the  one  to  order.  These  pessaries  are  made  in  Boston.  I placed  one  in  a lady 
about  60  years  old  who  was  suffering  with  almost  complete  prolapsus  or  fall- 
ing of  the  womb.  She  wore  it  for  years  with  comfort  and  success  and  ordered 
another  when  the  first  was  worn  out. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Alum,  Geranium  and  White  Oak  Bark. — For  falling  of  the  womb  use 
as  an  injection  a tea  made  with  a pint  of  water  and  1 ounce  of  either  geranium 
or  white  oak  bark.  A solution  of  an  ounce  of  alum  in  a pint  of  water  is  also 
a fine  remedy. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — These  are  all  good  for  they  are  astringents. 

2.  Hops,  Solomon’s  Seal  and  Peach  Leaves. — For  falling  of  the  womb 
make  a tea  of  equal  parts  of  hops,  Solomon’s  seal  and  peach  leaves,  and  use 
this  as  an  injection.  If  there  is  heat  and  difficulty  in  passing  water  drink  a 
tea  made  of  spearmint  and  marshmallow. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Solomon’s  seal  is  astringent,  peach  leaves  are 
slightly  so,  and  the  hops  are  quieting. 


BENDING  FORWARD  OF  THE  WOMB— (ANTEFLEXION). 

Anteflexion  is  an  unnatural  bending  forward  of  the  womb.  The  womb 
is  naturally  bent  forward  a little  and  especially  when  the  bladder  is  empty, 


376 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


This  bending  forward  becomes  a disease  when  the  bend  in  the  cervical  canal 
is  sufficient  to  impede  the  escape  of  the  menstrual  and  other  uterine  discharges. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  most  prominent  symptom  is  dysmenorrhea  or  pain- 
ful menstruation.  Violent  pains  in  the  center  of  the  abdomen,  extending  down 
the  thighs,  occur  several  hours  before  the  flow  begins.  In  the  later  years  of 
the  disease  the  pain  extends  to  the  whole  of  the  pelvis  and  the  back.  Nausea 
and  vomiting  may  be  present  during  the  height  of  the  pain.  When  the  flow 
has  started  the  pain  is  relieved  and  may  be  absent  during  the  remainder  of  the 
menstrual  period.  The  blood  is  clotted  during  the  first  part  of  the  flow.  Unless 
relieved  by  pregnancy  or  by  proper  treatment  the  trouble  will  continue.  The 
suffering  increases  with  time.  Inflammation  of  the  womb,  tubes,  and  ovaries 
follow  old  cases  of  anteflexion.  Sterility  usually  accompanies  well  marked 
cases. 

TREATMENT.— 

If  pregnancy  occurs  and  runs  a normal  course  the  disease  will  be  cured. 
Miscarriage,  however,  is  very  likely  to  occur  during  the  early  months  of  preg- 
nancy and  especially  in  cases  of  long  standing.  The  object  of  the  treatment 
is  to  straighten  the  cervical  canal.  The  use  of  the  stem  pessary  is  dangerous. 
The  best  method  is  rapid  forcible  dilation  by  a competent  operator.  This 
should  be  done  one  week  after  the  menstrual  period.  Anteflexion  is  usually 
a disease  of  the  unmarried  or  sterile  woman. 

RETROVERSION  AND  RETROFLEXION  OF  THE  WOMB. 

Retroversion  means  a turning  back  of  the  womb  and  retroflexion  means 
a bending  backward  of  the  uterine  or  womb  axis.  Usually  both  retroversion 
and  retroflexion  exist  together.  , 

CAUSES. — They  may  be  congenital.  Falls,  blows,  twisting  of  the  body, 
or  sudden  efforts  of  lifting  may  be  the  cause.  Labor  is  probably  the  most 
frequent  cause.  If  a woman  leaves  her  bed  or  goes  to  work  too  soon  after 
miscarriage  or  labor  many  conditions  are  present  that  favor  these  troubles. 
The  womb  is  then  larger  and  heavier  than  usual ; the  uterine  ligaments, 
vagina,  and  vaginal  opening  are  relaxed  and  the  support  of  the  pelvic  floor 
is  consequently  deficient;  the  abdominal  walls  are  relaxed  and  the  holding 
power  of  the  abdomen  is  lessened.  These  causes  also  favor  falling  of  the 
womb.  Retroflexion  is  a disease  of  women  who  have  been  pregnant  and  have 
borne  children. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  these  cases  there  is  serious  disarrangement  of  the 
circulation  and  this  results  in  enlargement  of  the  womb  and  chronic  conges- 
tion or  inflammation  of  its  lining.  There  is  also  an  irritable  bladder  with  pain- 
ful and  frequent  urination  in  many  cases.  Pressure  of  the  body  of  the  womb 
upon  the  rectum  may  also  cause  constipation  and  nervous  trouble.  The 
rectum  often  feels  obstructed  and  piles  may  occur.  Backache  situated  in  the 
upper  part  of  the  sacrum  and  headache  on  either  the  top  or  at  the  back  of  the 
head  and  a feeling  of  weight  and  dragging  in  the  pelvis  and  extending  down 
the  thighs  are  symptoms  of  these  troubles.  Physical  weakness  or  inability 
to  stand  or  walk  more  than  a short  time  is  often  very  marked.  Congestion 
of  the  ovaries  may  result  and  then  there  is  pain  in  the  ovarian  region.  Menor- 
rhagia and  leucorrhea  occur  and  menstruation  is  usually  painful.  At  the 
menstrual  period  the  backache  headache,  ovarian  pain  and  bladder  disturb- 
ance are  increased. 


DISEx\SES  OF  WOMEN. 


377 


TREATMENT.— 

Vaginal  pessaries  of  proper  shape  and  size  should  be  worn.  These  must 
be  of  such  shape  and  size  that  they  may  be  worn  without  feeling  them.  They 
must  not  cause  pain.  The  womb  should  be  replaced  before  the  support  is 
introduced.  The  woman  who  wears  a support  should  be  under  a doctor’s  ob- 
servation that  he  may  see  how  it  acts  and  if  the  displacement  is  cured.  The 
womb  is  sometimes  operated  on  for  these  troubles.  Ventro-fixation  or  ventro- 
suspension  of  the  womb  and  shortening  of  the  round  ligaments'are  the  treat- 
ments. Of  course  these  operations  are  to  be  performed  only  as  a last  resort 
and  by  a competent  man. 

LACERATION  OF  THE  NECK  OF  THE  WOMB— (LACERATION 
OF  THE  CERVIX  UTERI). 

Laceration  or  tearing  of  the  neck  of  the  womb  is  of  very  frequent  occur- 
rence. In  almost  every  case  of  labor  there  is  tearing  of  this  part  to  a greater 
or  less  extent.  The  majority  of  cases  heal  without  causing  any  trouble. 
These  lacerations  may  be  large  or  small. 

SYMPTOMS. — Leucorrhea  is  usually  present;  menstruation  may  be  ir- 
regular and  increased  in  duration ; and  backache  and  headache  may  be  pres- 
ent. If  the  tear  is  extensive,  pelvic  pain  may  be  experienced.  Sometimes 
very  marked  nervous  disturbances  are  caused  by  laceration  and  especially 
if  there  is  very  much  scar  tissue.  Neuralgia  may  occur  and  is  usually  sit- 
uated in  the  pelvis. 

TREATMENT.— 

All  forms  of  laceration  of  the  cervix  in  which  there  exist  erosion,  ever- 
sion (turning  out),  cystic  degeneration,  and  sclerosis  (hard  tissue)  should  be 
operated  on.  In  women  approaching  middle  life  or  the  age  of  forty  all  lacera- 
tions of  the  cervix  should  be  closed  whether  or  not  they  produce  symptoms. 
Cancer  of  the  neck  of  the  womb  is  most  likely  to  begin  in  an  old  lacera- 
tion and  the  woman  should  be  protected  against  this  danger.  The  operation 
is  called  trachelorraphy  ” and  consists  of  freshening  or  excising  the  tissues 
of  the  torn  surfaces  and  bringing  the  freshened  edges  together  with  sutures. 
This  operation  is  very  successful  and  is  not  especially  severe  or  dangerous. 


CERVICAL  CATARRH— (ACUTE  AND  CHRONIC). 

This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  cervical  mucous  membrane.  The  cervix, 
or  neck,  of  the  womb  is  the  lower  part  of  the  womb  and  looks  like  the  small 
end  of  a large  pear.  Through  the  center  runs  a channel  called  the  cervical 
canal  and  this  continues  to  the  inner  opening  and  into  the  womb  cavity.  At 
the  outer  or  lower  end  of  this  canal  the  opening  is  called  the  external  os 
(mouth)  ; at  the  inner  end  the  opening  is  called  the  internal  os.  Between 
these  openings  is  the  so-called  cervical  canal  which  is  widest  in  the  center. 
Cervical  catarrh  is  an  inflammation  of  the  walls  of  this  canal. 

Acute  Cervical  Catarrh. — This  occurs  generally  as  a part  of  a general 
acute  process  affecting  the  whole  inner  lining  of  the  womb  and  is  com- 
monly the  result  of  gonorrheal  or  septic  infection.  It  will  be  considered 
under  “ General  Endometritis.” 

Chronic  Cervical  Catarrh. — This  is  a chronic  inflammation  of  the  mucous 
membrane  of  the  cervical  canal.  It  is  an  exceedingly  common  affection. 


378 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Unless  it  is  caused  by  gonorrhea  it  is  nearly  always  secondary  to  some 
local  or  general  condition.  The  discharge  is  a thick  tenacious  mucus  and 
differs  decidedly  from  the  vaginal  mucus.  It  is  often  opaque,  rarely  pus, 
and  seldom  streaked  with  blood.  The  mucous  membrane  becomes  swollen  and 
may  project  or  prolapse  beyond  the  limits  of  the  external  opening  so  that  the 
opening  has  a ring  around  it  of  red  and  congested  mucous  membrane  like 
the  eyelids  in  conjunctivitis.  This  inflammation  may  extend  to  the  vaginal 
part  of  the  cervix.  The  most  usual  secondary  cause  of  this  trouble  is  lacer- 
ation of  the  cervix.  Also,  the  various  displacements  of  the  womb  are  often 
accompanied  by  this  trouble.  Frequent  douches  of  cold  water  to  prevent 
conception  are  said  to  be  a cause.  Gonorrhea  seems  in  many  cases  to  be  com- 
municated directly  and  primarily  from  the  male  to  the  cervical  mucous  mem- 
brane and  this  results  in  a most  obstinate  form  of  chronic  inflammation  and 
if  not  properly  treated  may  cause  terrible  disaster  by  causing  disease  of  the 
organs  beyond. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  most  conspicuous  symptom  is  the  leucorrhea  with 
thick,  tenacious,  opaque  mucus.  The  quantity  is  often  so  great  that  the  clothes 
of  the  woman  are  soiled  and  she  is  obliged  to  wear  a napkin.  There  may  be 
slight  backache  and  a feeling  of  vague  discomfort  or  pain  in  the  pelvis. 
TREATMENT.— 

Find  the  cause  and  treat  it.  Attend  to  the  laceration  or  displacement. 
If  caused  by  scrofula,  syphilis  or  tuberculosis,  treat  these  conditions.  Local 
treatment  by  douches  aids  the  cure.  Give  some  general  tonic  treatment  such 
as  Blaud’s  pills,  the  prescription  for  which  is  here  given.  Take  2 drams  each 
of  pulv.  fcrri  sv.lph.  exsic  and  potass,  carb.  pur(c\  make  into  a mass;  divide  into 
48  pills  and  take  3 or  4 a day.  Bitter  tonics  and  tonic  herb  remedies  are  good. 
Local  treatment  must  be  administered  carefully.  A great  deal  of  harm  is 
done  and  especially  by  the  application  of  harsh  remedies  and  by  the  unclean 
way  in  which  they  are  so  often  applied.  Injections  of  golden  seal  and  witch 
hazel  often  do  good.  Warm  water  is  also  a good  injection.  The  gonorrheal 
kind  will  be  treated  later. 

CANCER  OF  THE  CERVIX  OR  NECK  OF  THE  WOMB. 

This  is  a very  common  disease.  About  one-third  of  all  cases  of  cancer 
in  women  affect  the  womb.  It  appears  at  almost  every  period  of  life  except 
infancy  but  it  occurs  most  frequently  between  the  ages  of  thirty  and  fifty. 
Cancer  of  the  cervix  is  a disease  of  the  child-bearing  woman.  It  is  very 
rare  in  women  who  have  never  been  pregnant.  The  stout  and  well  nourished 
mother  of  a large  family  is  very  likely  to  have  cancer  of  the  cervix. 

CAUSES. — The  chief  predisposing  cause  of  cancer  of  the  cervix  is  a 
laceration  or  tear  caused  by  miscarriage  or  labor.  Cancer  of  the  vaginal 
cervix  very  often  begins  in  the  mild  erosion  of  an  old  laceration.  True  ulcer- 
ation, as  a mild  condition,  is  very  rare  in  the  cervix;  so,  when  an  erosion  turns 
into  an  ulceration  it  should  always  excite  the  gravest  suspicion.  It  may  ex- 
tend to  the  vagina,  to  the  body  of  the  womb,  to  the  broad  ligaments,  the 
bladder,  rectum,  and  to  the  peritoneum  and  may  be  carried  by  the  lymphatic 
vessels  to  the  pelvic  and  inguinal  glands. 

SYMPTOMS. — A study  of  the  early  symptoms  of  cancer  of  the  cervix  is 
of  greatest  importance.  In  the  early  stages  the  disease  may  be  eradicated 
with  every  probability  of  permanent  cure.  The  great  majority  of  women 
with  cancer  of  the  cervix  come  to  the  operator  when  the  disease  has  extended 


DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 


379 


too  far  to  permit  of  any  radical  treatment.  The  usual  symptoms  are  bleeding-, 
pain  and  discharge.  The  bleeding  often  appears  first  as  a menorrhagia  which 
is  an  increase  in  the  amount  of  blood  lost  at  the  normal  menstrual  period. 
The  loss  may  be  greater  and  the  period  longer.  In  other  cases  slight  bleed- 
ing appears  between  the  menses  and  a spot  of  blood  may  be  noticed  upon 
the  clothing.  The  leucorrheal  discharge  may  occasionally  be  streaked  with 
blood.  The  patient  usually  discharges  blood  after  long  walking  or  stand- 
ing, or  physical  work,  or  after  straining  at  stool  or  very  often  after  sexual 
intercourse.  If  the  “ change  of  life  ” has  been  passed  the  bleeding  may  appear 
as  a re-establishment  of  menstruation.  It  may  occur  with  more  or  less  regular- 
ity every  month  or  every  3 or  4 months  or  it  may  appear  as  an  occasional  loss  of 
blood  after  unwonted  effort.  Such  flow  in  a women  over  30  years  of  age 
demands  immediate  and  careful  physical  examination.  Any  bleeding  from 
the  vagina  in  a woman  who  has  passed  the  “ change  of  life  ” should  arouse 
the  gravest  suspicion.  Pain  is  not  a constant  accompaniment  of  this  disease  in 
the  early  stages  nor  is  it  in  any  way  characteristic.  In  some  cases  it  is 
absent  entirely.  The  pain,  when  present,  may  be  dull  or  it  may  be  sharp  and 
piercing. 

The  discharge  may  be  present  in  cancer  of  the  cervix  before  there  are 
any  symptoms  of  bleeding  or  pain.  It  may  first  appear  as  an  ordinary  cervical 
leucorrhea  in  a woman  previously  free  from  such  a discharge ; or,  it  may  ap- 
pear as  an  increase  of  the  accustomed  leucorrhea.  Later  the  leucorrhea  be- 
comes pus-like  in  character  and  streaked  with  blood.  It  becomes  thinner, 
constant  and  brownish.  The  pus  and  debris  from  the  breaking  down  cancer- 
ous mass  increase  and  a horrible  odor  characteristic  of  the  later  stages  of 
cancer  of  the  cervix  appears.  This  odor  is  not  peculiar  to  cancer  but  is  caused 
by  the  sloughing  tissue  and  is  observed  when  such  a process  occurs  in  other 
conditions,  as  in  sloughing  fibroids.  The  discharge  is  irritating  in  character. 
TREATMENT.— 

The  treatment  is  a complete  removal  of  the  uterus  or  womb.  To  be  a 
cure  it  must  be  done  early  so  be  on  the  lookout  and  discover  the  cause  of  all 
discharges  from  the  vagina.  They  may  be  due  to  an  eroded,  ulcerated,  lacer- 
ated cervix  and  need  early  attention.  Many  lives  and  much  suffering  can 
be  saved  if  such  symptoms  are  not  neglected. 


ACUTE  INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  WOMB— ACUTE  CORPOREAL 

ENDOMETRITIS. 

DESCRIPTION  AND  CAUSES. — Acute  inflammation  of  the  mucous 
membrane  of  the  body  of  the  uterus  or  womb  is  called  acute  corporeal  en- 
dometritis. The  disease  is  usually  the  result  of  septic  infection  occurring  at 
a labor  or  miscarriage.  Occasionally  acute  gonorrheal  endometritis  is  seen 
but  this  disease  usually  produces  an  inflammation  of  the  mucous  membrane 
of  the  cervix  and  the  body  of  the  womb  that  is  half-acute  or  chronic  from 
the  beginning.  The  acute  variety  can  be  caused  by  the  use  of  the  uterine 
sound.  It  is  also  sometimes  seen  in  eruptive  diseases. 

SYMPTOMS. — Dull  pain  is  usually  present  in  the  region  of  the  womb 
and  is  referred  to  the  supra-pelvic  region  and  the  sacrum.  There  is  frequent 
and  painful  urination.  The  temperature  in  puerperal  cases  is  very  high.  The 
discharge  from  the  womb  is  very  much  increased,  pus-like  in  character,  and 
occasionally  streaked  with  blood. 


380 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


TREATMENT.— 

In  non-puerperal  cases  the  patient  should  have  rest  in  bed.  Give  vaginal 
douches  of  hot  boric  acid  solution,  using  1 dram  of  boric  acid  to  a pint  of 
water.  Douches  of  a 1 to  4,000  solution  of  bichloride  of  mercury  are  also 
good.  These  douches  should  be  taken  at  a temperature  of  100  or  110  degrees. 
Continue  the  use  of  saline  purgatives  like  epsom  or  rochelle  salts.  The  home- 
opathic treatment  is  by  the  use  of  Aconite,  Belladonna,  Mercurius  and  Arseni- 
cum. When,  however,  the  disease  occurs,  as  it  often  does,  from  septic  infec- 
tion at  a miscarriage  or  labor  more  radical  treatment  must  be  used.  This  treat- 
ment comprises  frequently  repeated  uterine  douches  and  thorough  curetting  of 
the  uterus  which  can  only  be  done  by  a physician  aided  by  an  experienced 
nurse.  It  is  now  simply  the  so-called  severe  child-bed  fever.  Every  case  of 
acute  inflammation  of  the  body  of  the  womb  should  be  carefully  watched  and 
treated  until  the  disease  is  cured.  Acute  inflammation  of  the  womb,  es- 
pecially if  gonorrhea  is  the  cause,  is  very  likely  to  become  chronic  and  to 
extend  to  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  fallopian  tubes  and  to  the  ovaries. 

CHRONIC  INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  WOMB. 

Chronic  Corporeal  Endometritis. 

In  practice  this  form  is  seen  much  more  frequently  than  the  acute  form. 
It  may  occur  as  a primary  disease  but  it  very  often  occurs  as  a result  of 
some  other  disease  of  the  womb. 

CAUSES. — The  causes  are  various.  It  follows  diseases  of  the  womb  and 
may  result  as  a later  stage  of  the  acute  form,  or  it  may  exist  from  the  begin- 
ning in  the  chronic  form.  This  is  especially  true  when  it  is  caused  by  gonor- 
rhea. Here  the  invasion  of  the  disease  is  slow  and  insiduous  and  in  the 
majority  of  cases  is  preceded  by  no  determinable  acute  stage. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  menstrual  function  is  usually  affected.  The  period 
lasts  longer,  the  loss  of  blood  is  greater  and  the  periods  are  more  frequent. 
The  secretion  is  also  increased  and  is  thin  and  purulent  in  character  and 
often  streaked  with  blood.  Pain  is  a general  symptom  and  is  referred  to  the 
lower  portion  of  the  abdomen  and  the  back.  There  is  headache  in  the  top 
or  at  the  back  part  of  the  head.  Pain  is  worse  when  the  patient  is  on  the  feet 
and  is  greater  before  and  during  the  menses.  There  is  great  weakness  and 
debility  and  the  patient  is  nervous  and  hysterical  with  mental  depression  and 
melancholia. 

TREATMENT.—  ^ 

As  this  disease  is  usually  secondary  to  some  disease  of  the  cervix  or  bodv 
of  the  womb,  the  treatment  should  be  directed  toward  the  cure  of  this  first 
condition.  Many  mild  cases  can  be  relieved  or  cured  by  attention  to  the 
hygiene  and  habits  and  by  applications  to  the  vaginal  aspect  of  the  womb. 
Wear  dresses  which  are  loose  around  the  waist  and  supported  from  the 
shoulders.  Do  less  standing  and  walking.  Take  mild  laxatives.  Repeated 
exercise  and  massage  are  good.  Use  a vaginal  douche  and  glycerine  tampon. 
More  radical  treatment  may  be  necessary  and  curetting  of  the  womb  may 
have  to  be  resorted  to. 

FIBROID  TUMORS  OF  THE  WOMB. 

These  originate  in  the  muscular  walls  of  the  womb.  When  they  are 
situated  in  the  muscular  wall  they  are  called  “ interstitial.”  When  they  grow 
out  so  that  they  project  into  the  womb  they  are  called  sub-mucous.”  The 


DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 


381 


whole  womb  becomes  very  much  enlarged  and  the  cavity  is  increased  in 
length.  We  also  have  the  “ sub-peritoneal  ” variety  of  the  fibroid  tumor. 

SYMPTOMS. — Bleeding  is  the  chief  symptom  and  is  present  in  the 
great  majority  of  fibroids. 

TREATMENT.— 

Operative  treatment  is  usually  demanded.  These  cannot  be  cured  with 
medicine.  Some  women  put  off  the  operation  until  a terrific  bleeding  de- 
stroys their  life.  If  the  tumor  is  small  and  there  are  no  serious  symptoms, 
the  case  may  be  watched  but  must  be  watched  closely. 

DISEASES  OF  THE  FALLOPIAN  TUBES. 

DESCRIPTION  OF  FALLOPIAN  TUBES.— The  average  length  of 
the  normal  tube  is  ten  inches.  The  narrow  end  of  the  tube  is  called  the 
isthmus  and  the  outer  end,  which  is  trumpet  shaped,  is  called  the  ampula. 
The  canal  of  the  tube  is  small.  At  the  uterine,  or  womb  end  (ostium  inter- 
num) it  will  barely  admit  a bristle.  Beyond  the  middle  of  the  tube  the  canal 
gradually  widens  to  the  outer  opening  (ostium  abdominale).  This  is  sur- 
rounded by  peculiar  luxuriant  folds  of  mucous  membrane  called  fimbrse  and 
these  are  formed  by  the  outward  bulging  of  the  exuberant  mucous  membrane. 
These  tubes  extend  laterally  from  the  upper  part  of  the  body  of  the  womb. 
The  fimbrje  gather  the  ovum  from  the  ovary  and  it  is  conveyed  through  the 
tube  to  the  body  of  the  womb.  These  tubes  are  subject  to  disease.  If  they 
are  inflamed  this  inflammation  is  called  “ salpingitis.’^ 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  FALLOPIAN  TUBES— SALPINGITIS. 

This  is  usually  secondary  to  endometritis,  the  mucous  membrane  of  the 
tubes  becoming  inflamed  by  its  spreading  from  the  mucous  membrane  of  the 
womb.  Any  form  may  extend  to  the  tubes  but  the  septic  and  gonorrheal 
forms  of  endometritis  are  especially  virulent  and  it  is  the  rule  in  these  that 
the  tubes  are  infected.  It  is  usually  seen  in  the  chronic  form.  When  the  tube 
distends  with  pus  it  is  called  “ pyosalpinx when  distended  with  a watery 
fluid  it  is  called  “hydrosalpinx;”  and  when  distended  with  blood  it  is  called 
“ hsematosalpinx.” 

SYMPTOMS  OF  CHRONIC  SALPINGITIS.— Pain  is  the  most  prom- 
inent and  is  a continuous  symptom.  It  may  be  on  both  sides  and  if  such  is 
the  case  it  may  be  relieved  by  lying  down  and  remaining  quiet.  The  pain  is 
sometimes  very  great.  It  is  dull  and  aching  or  sharp  and  piercing  and  is  very 
much  worse  at  the  menstrual  period.  The  dysmenorrhea  in  this  disease  is 
usually  very  characteristic.  It  begins  several  days,  sometimes  a week,  before 
the  flow  appears.  It  starts  in  the  region  of  both  ovaries  and  radiates  thence 
throughout  the  pelvis  and  down  the  thighs  and  it  usually  lasts  throughout 
the  whole  period.  The  pain  of  salpingitis  persists  throughout  the  whole 
course  of  the  disease.  The  patient  walks  with  the  body  slightly  bent  forward ; 
sits  down  gently  upon  a chair  and  protects  herself,  by  support  with  the  hand, 
from  the  jolting  of  a carriage  or  car. 

TREATMENT.— 

In  the  early  stages  of  acute  salpingitis  watch  and  be  ready  to  meet 
emergencies.  Observe  absolute  rest  by  lying  down.  Two  or  three  times  a 
day  give  vaginal  douches  of  hot  distilled  or  boiled  water  at  the  temperature 
of  about  100  or  110  degrees.  Give  small  doses  of  rochelle  or  epsom  salts,  V2 
to  1 dram,  every  1 to  2 hours  until  mild  movements  of  the  bowels  are  pro- 


382 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


duced.  Continue  these  measures  as  required.  Apply  hot  fomentations  of 
hops  over  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen.  In  all  these  diseases  much  relief 
is  given  by  the  application  of  fomentations  or  cloths  wrung  out  of  hot  water 
or  hot  water  and  hops.  Hot  teas  may  be  taken  freely  at  the  same  time. 
These  produce  perspiration  and  thus  relieve  the  congestion  and  inflammation 
and  relax  the  muscles  of  the  parts.  The  application  of  fomentations  should 
be  continued  for  hours  and  they  should  always  be  kept  as  hot  as  can  be 
borne.  In  the  gonorrheal  and  septic  forms  there  is  great  danger  of  its  spread- 
ing to  the  peritoneum  or  of  the  formation  of  some  form  of  pelvic  abscess  that 
will  imperil  the  life  of  the  woman  and  so  the  case  must  be  watched  carefully 
and  continuously.  If  there  are  well  marked  symptoms  of  pelvic  peritonitis  or 
if  a distinct  tumor  can  be  felt,  then  an  operation  must  be  performed.  Fatal 
peritonitis  sometimes  results  within  3 or  4 days  after  the  onset  of  acute 
salpingitis.  The  chronic  form  should  be  carefully  watched  as  an  operation 
may  be  necessary. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Aconite,  Belladonna  and  Mercurius  are  good 
for  either  the  acute  or  chronic  form.  (For  preparation  and  use  see  “ Homeo- 
pathic Medicines  ” in  Nursing  Department.) 

DISEASES  OF  THE  OVARIES. 

DESCRIPTION  OF  OVARIES. — ^The  general  shape  of  the  ovary  is 
oval.  They  are  two  in  number.  After  the  change  of  life  the  ovaries  shrink 
a great  deal  in  size  and  weight ; sometimes  from  100  down  to  15  grains.  The 
long  axis  of  the  ovary  is  from  about  1%  to  2 inches ; its  breadth  about  % to 
1%  inches  and  its  thickness  about  % to  % inch.  A healthy  ovary  is  pinkish 
in  color.  On  its  surface  are  seen  small  bluish  areas  that  mark  the  position 
of  unruptured  or  recently  ruptured  ovarian  follicles. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  OVARIES. 

Ovaritis. 

CAUSES. — Inflammation  of  the  ovaries  may  extend  from  the  fallopian 
tubes  and  this  is  the  usual  cause  of  the  acute  form.  Acute  suppression  of 
menstruation  is  also  said  to  cause  it  as  is  acute  rheumatism  and  the  eruptive 
fevers. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  pain  in  the  ovarian  region  which  increases  dur- 
ing the  menses  and  is  most  intense  immediately  before  and  at  the  beginning 
of  the  flow.  If  the  flow  is  profuse  the  pain  is  often  relieved.  The  symptoms 
may  be  masked  by  other  diseases  such  as  salpingitis  and  puerperal  sepsis. 
TREATMENT.-^ 

This  disease  sometimes  requires  an  operation  but  I believe  a great  deal 
can  be  done  with  medicines  and  especially  when  it  is  not  gonorrheal  in  origin. 
The  homeopathic  treatment  is  by  the  use  of  Aconite  and  Belladonna  at  the 
beginning  and  Mercurius  later.  Apis  Mellifica,  taken  for  a long  time,  is  a 
good  remedy  for  chronic  inflamed  ovaries.  (For  the  preparation  and  use  of 
these  medicines  see  “ Homeopathic  Medicines”  in  the  Nursing  Department.) 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Hot  Cloths  and  Laudanum. — For  acute  inflammation  of  the  ovaries 
apply  hot  cloths  to  the  abdomen  and  take  10  drops  of  laudanum  internally 
every  3 or  4 hours  according  to  the  pain. 

Remarks. — One  of  the  best  physicians  in  Ohio  prescribes  this  treatment. 


OUR  BOYS  AND  GIRLS. 


383 


OVARIAN  CYSTS. 

These  grow  to  immense  size  and  the  only  cure  is  an  operation.  Tapping 
was  once  the  universal  method  of  treatment  but  it  is  not  a permanent  cure. 
The  results  of  operations  for  this  trouble  are  very  good  and  I have  no  hesi- 
tation in  recommending  an  operation  in  these  cases.  A short  time  ago,  during 
my  vacation  in  the  East,  I recommended  an  operation  for  a lady  who  had  an 
ovarian  cyst  and  expected  to  die.  She  had  the  operation  performed  and  is 
today  a well  woman.  At  the  time  she  was  so  filled  up  with  the  fluid  that 
breathing  was  very  difficult  and  the  action  of  the  heart  was  bad.  This  opera- 
tion is  quite  quickly  performed  and  generally  with  little  danger  to  the  patient 
.unless  there  are  complications  or  she  has  waited  too  long.  Many  of  the  in- 
flammatory diseases  of  the  womb  and  ovaries  can  be  cured  by  medicine.  If 
the  cause  is  gonorrhea  the  result  is  not  so  good.  I have  been  treating  an  en- 
larged ovary,  one  without  dangerous  symptoms,  for  the  last  eight  years.  In 
this  case  an  operation  had  been  advised  by  others.  The  patient  is  better  today 
than  eight  years  ago.  A great  many  menstrual  troubles  can  be  cured  or  relieved 
by  medicine.  Operations  should  only  be  performed  in  such  cases  when  other 
means  have  failed.  However,  when  there  is  pus  there  is  always  danger  and 
such  cases  require  constant  watching. 

OUR  BOYS  AND  GIRLS. 

How  to  properly  bring  up  our  boys  and  girls  is  a great  question.  A great 
deal  of  time  and  thought  has  been  given  to  this  question  not  only  by  parents 
but  by  officials  who  have  to  do  with  making  and  enforcing  the  laws.  The 
training  the  child  receives  has  much  to  do  with  its  permanent  moral  character 
in  after  life.  Curfew  laws  are  passed  in  some  towns  and  cities.  If  parents 
kept  their  boys  in  at  night  such  laws  would  be  unnecessary.  In  almost  anv 
group  of  boys  there  are  some  who  have  knowledge  of  things  that  they  impart 
to  others  in  an  improper  way.  Vulgar  and  immoral  language  is  used  and 
evil  practices  are  taught  to  others.  Many  parents  would  be  much  surprised 
to  know  how  much  masturbation  is  practiced  among  both  boys  and  girls.  As 
they  grow  older  the  promiscuous  mingling  of  the  sexes  gives  opportunity  for 
sexual  relations  and  all  physicians  know  that  this  often  occurs  even  before, 
puberty.  I know  of  one  case  where  a boy  of  but  seven  years  of  age  contracted 
a loathsome  venereal  disease  from  a girl  of  seventeen.  Parents  should  know 
these  things.  There  is  much  harm  done  by  concealing  the  truth  about  these 
matters. 

In  many  cases  our  schools  are  at  fault  for  here  our  boys  and  girls  mingle 
promiscuously  with  children  coming  from  all  kinds  of  homes.  This  is  perhaps 
as  it  should  be  but  they  should  be  watched  over  carefully  or  they  will  learn 
habits  that  are  unnatural  and  immoral.  Tuvenile  courts  are  being  established 
and  the  judges  state  that  these  immoral  practices  are  not  confined  to  the 
poorer  classes.  Judge  Lindsav,  of  Denver,  has  made  a great  fight  against  im- 
purity and  there  are  other  judges  who  are  now  working  zealously  in  the  same 
direction.  It  is  time  for  parents  to  wake  ud  to  the  danger  that  threatens 
their  boys  and  girls.  Parents  are  not  blameless.  Business  and  society  cause 
them  to  neglect  their  children  and  thev  are  often  entirely  brought  up  bv 
servants.  No  one  will  do  for  your  children  what  you  fail  to  do  yourself. 
Too  many  children,  and  especially  boys,  grow  up  making  light  of  virtue.  Not 
only  this,  but  masturbation  is  practiced  to  an  extent  almost  beyond  belief. 


384 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


This  is  an  unnatural  practice  and  children  should  be  instructed  as  to  its  awful 
effects  upon  both  the  mind  and  body.  This  habit  is  taught  them  by  older 
boys  and  girls  but  they  are  not  instructed  as  to  its  ruining  effects.  Parents 
should  not  only  warn  their  children  against  these  practices  but  they  should 
instruct  them  as  to  their  effects  and  why  they  are  harmful.  Children  are 
sure  to  learn  about  these  things  but  they  only  learn  a part  of  the  truth  and  it 
is  well  known  that,  “ a little  learning  is  a dangerous  thing.”  Is  it  not  better 
for  the  children  to  learn  these  things  at  home  and  in  the  proper  way? 

Children  often  learn  to  masturbate  involuntarily.  The  habit  is  some- 
times formed  by  rubbing  the  itching  privates.  Often  they  are  not  kept 
clean  and  the  filth  produces  intense  itching.  See  that  the  private  parts  of 
the  children  of  both  sexes  are  kept  as  clean  as  other  parts  of  the  body.  Some- 
times this  practice  is  caused  by  the  foreskin  of  the  boy  being  too  tight  and 
thus  irritating  the  parts.  In  such  cases  circumcision  is  necessary.  In  girls 
the  hood  of  the  clitoris  often  causes  irritation  and  needs  to  be  cut  free.  These 
operations  are  simple  and  are  often  necessary.  Every  parent  should  see  to 
it  that  these  operations  are  performed,  if  it  is  necessary,  and  it  very  frequently 
is.  How  often  we  see  the  little  ones  rubbing  their  private  parts.  Whenever 
a child  is  seen  doing  this  the  chances  are  that  they  are  either  unclean  or 
need  one  of  the  above  operations.  Do  not  let  the  child  become  an  involuntary 
masturbator  through  your  neglect. 

Parents  should  teach  their  children  about  themselves.  Do  not  let  them 
groAv  up  in  ignorance  of  what  their  re-productive  organs  are  intended  for  and 
of  the  evil  effects  of  their  misuse.  Before  the  first  change  comes  to  a girl 
and  she  begins  to  change  in  form,  tell  her  what  she  may  expect  and  what  it 
means.  Tell  her  about  the  flow  ” and  what  the  sexual  relation  means  and 
how  babies  come.  They  will  find  it  out  in  some  way  and  often  to  their  lasting 
disgrace.  Do  not  let  your  children  go  astray  through  lack  of  instruction  that 
you  might  have  given  them.  Parents  should  treat  their  bpys  and  girls  in 
such  a way  that  they  will  take  them  into  their  confidence  in  all  things.  Tell 
the  little  ones  why  they  should  not  associate  with  immoral  boys  and  girls 
and  when  the  crisis  comes  that  changes  them  into  men  and  women  tell  them 
what  it  means  and  what  care  they  should  take  of  themselves.  To  my  mind 
it  is  criminal  for  parents  to  bring  up  their  children  without  some  knowledge 
of  themselves. 


A CHAPTER  FOR  YOUNG  WOMEN. 

The  First  Crisis. — When  a girl  shows  the  “ change  ” the  mother  puts 
longer  dresses  on  her.  Tell  her  why.  A girl  should  not  grow  up  so  ignorant 
that  when  the  “ flow  ” comes  she  will  try  to  stop  it.  I once  heard  of  a girl 
who  sat  in  the  snow  to  stop  the  first  menses.  She  was  very  much  scared. 
Fortunately  an  older  girl  was  at  hand  to  tell  her  what  it  meant.  At 
this  time  of  life  a girl  needs  to  give  special  attention  to  her  dress,  amuse- 
ments, habits  and  work.  A girl  should  never  get  wet  feet  when  she  is  “ un- 
well she  should  be  protected  from  the  wet  and  cold.  She  should  not  go  to 
school  during  this  time  unless  she  can  have  dry  clothing  and  dry  feet.  The 
care  taken  by  the  girl  at  this  time  has  much  to  do  with  the  regularity,  pain- 
lessness and  efficiency  of  her  “ monthly  flow.”  A well  girl  should  not  be 
made  sick  by  the  appearance  of  her  monthlies.  I think  the  first  time  it  appears 
it  would  be  well  for  her  to  remain  very  quiet  and  be  very  careful  not  to  take 


A CHAPTER  FOR  YOUNG  WOMEN 


385 


cold.  It  will  not  hurt  her  to  lose  a few  days  schooling-.  At  this  time  of  life 
it  is  well  not  to  study  too  hard  but  to  pay  attention  to  the  health.  A girl 
that  “ comes  around  ” right  the  first  few  years  is  almost  sure  to  remain  that 
way  and  especially  if  she  enters  this  period  healthy.  The  flow  usually  begins 
at  the  age  of  fourteen  or  fifteen  in  this  climate.  At  this  time  the  girl  is  gener- 
ally very  busy  with  her  school  work  and  is  often  pushed  to  the  limit.  This  is 
a great  mistake  and  headaches  are  often  frequent.  Our  school  system  then 
pulls  down  the  girl’s  health  instead  of  building  it  up  and  many  girls  enter 
this  period  totally  unprepared  for  it  From  the  ages  of  13  to  17,  girls  should 
not  study  too  hard.  They  should  have  plenty  of  outdoor  life  and  exercise ; 
they  should  be  free  from  excitement  of  every  kind  and  proper  attention  should 
be  given  to  their  health.  If  such  attention  is  given  the  menstruation  is  likely 
to  come  on  gradually  and  properly  and  with  little  pain.  Of  course  there  will 
be  uneasiness  and  perhaps  some  headache.  The  menses  come  earlier  in  warm 
climates  and  in  girls  who  lead  indolent  and  luxuriant  lives;  and  later  in  work- 
ing girls.  Race  also  makes  a difference. 

The  menstrual  flow  consists  of  blood,  mucous  secretion  from  the  womb 
and  vagina  and  epithelial  cells  from  the  lining  of  the  Avomb.  It  usually  lasts 
from  two  days  to  a week.  The  first  flow  may  be  short  and  small  in  quantity ; 
usually  two  to  nine  ounces.  Again,  it  may  be  very  free.  In  such  a case 
quiet  is  necessary.  Nothing  need  be  done  unless  the  flow  is  so  excessive  as 
to  seriously  weaken  the  girl,  when  a physician  should  be  called.  A good 
household  remedy  is  stick  cinnamon.  Pour  a pint  of  boiling  water  over  a 
handful  of  stick  cinnamon  and  drink  freely.  Even  if  a girl  does  not  feel 
bad  she  should  at  this  time,  at  least  at  first,  avoid  active  exercise  and  amuse- 
ments. No  girl,  at  any  time  when  she  is  unwell,  should  attend  dances  or 
indulge  in  undue  exercise  or  get  wet. 

Parents  need  not  worry  if  a weakly  girl  does  not  menstruate  until  she 
is  sixteen  or  seventeen  provided  she  shows  no  bad  symptoms.  After 
having  menstruated  once,  a girl  frequently  misses  one  or  more  months.  This 
is  not  unusual  and  it  frequently  takes  a year  or  more  before  she  becomes  reg- 
ular. A woman  usually  menstruates  every  twenty-eight  days  but  the  time 
varies  in  different  persons.  The  menses  sometimes  occur  regularly  every 
two,  three  or  five  weeks.  When  they  occur  every  two  weeks  the  alternate 
flows  are  usually  small  in  amount.  The  occurrence  of,  or  the  attempt  at, 
menstruation  eA^ery  two  Aveeks  in  a AA^oman  who  had  previously  menstruated 
monthly  is  sometimes  a symptom  of  the  beginning  of  womb  disease.  Many 
girls  menstruate  every  three  or  five  Aveeks.  For  them  this  is  normal.  If  a 
girl  is  unAvell  every  three  weeks  it  usually  does  not  last  so  long  and  the  flow 
is  not  so  great.  Let  me  repeat  that  a girl  should  take  the  best  care  of  herself 
before  and  during  her  first  menstrual  periods  and  she  will  then  be  very  likely 
to  be  free  from  painful  menstruation  unless  it  is  a family  inheritance.  The 
following  is  a description  which  I have  taken  from  an  old  but  reliable  Avriter. 

“ Females  usually  begin  to  menstruate  about  the  age  of  fourteen  and 
leave  off  at  about  the  age  of  forty-five,  which  renders  these  two  periods  the 
most  critical  periods  of  their  lives.  About  the  time  of  the  first  appearance 
of  this  discharge  the  constitution  undergoes  a very  considerable  change; 
generally,  indeed,  for  the  better  though  sometimes  for  the  worse.  The  great- 
est care  is  now  necessary  as  the  future  health  and  happiness  of  the  girl  de- 
pend in  a great  measure  upon  her  conduct  at  this  period. 

“ If  a girl  about  this  period  or  time  of  life  be  confined  to  the  home,  kept 
25 


386 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


constantly  sitting,  and  neither  allowed  to  romp  about  nor  to  be  employed  in 
any  active  business  which  gives  exercise  to  the  whole  body,  she  becomes  weak, 
relaxed  and  puny.  Her  blood  not  being  duly  prepared,  she  looks  pale  and 
wan ; her  health,  spirits  and  vigor  decline  and  she  sinks  into  the  invalid  state. 
Such  is  the  case  with  numbers  of  these  unhappy  girls,  who,  either  from  over 
indulgence  or  their  own  narrow  circumstances,  are  at  this  critical  period 
denied  the  benefit  of  exercise  and  fresh  air.  A lazy  indolent  disposition  proves 
likewise  very  hurtful  to  girls  at  this  period.  One  seldom  meets  with  com- 
plaints of  menstrual  tro-.ble  among  the  properly  active  and  industrious  part 
of  the  sex;  whereas,  the  indolent  and  lazy  are  seldom  free  from  them.  These 
are  in  a manner  eaten  up  by  green  sickness  (chlorosis)  and  other  diseases  of 
thi.»  nature.  We  would  therefore  recommend  to  all  who  wish  to  escape  these 
calamities  to  avoid  indolence  and  inactivity  as  their  greatest  enemies  and  to 
be  as  much  in  the  open  air  as  possible.  Unwholesome  food  is  also  very  harm- 
ful. Girls  often  indulge  in  all  manner  of  trash  until  their  whole  system  is 
vitiated.  Hence  ensue  indigestion,  loss  of  appetite  and  a numerous  train  of 
evils.  If  the  fluids  be  not  duly  prepared  it  is  utterly  impossible  that  the  secre- 
tions should  go  on  properly.  Accordingly  we  find  that  such  girls  as  lead  an 
indolent  life  and  eat  great  quantities  of  trash  are  not  only  subject  to  an  ob- 
struction of  the  menses,  but  likewise  to  glandular  obstructions,  scrofula,  etc. 
A dull  dispostion  is  also  very  hurtful  to  girls  who  do  not  enjoy  good  health; 
while  the  grave,  moping,  melancholy  creature  moves  the  very  prey  of  vapors 
and  hysterics.  Youth  is  the  season  for  mirth  and  cheerfulness;  let  it,  there- 
fore, be  indulged  in;  it  is  an  absolute  duty.  To  lay  in  a stock  of  health  in 
time  of  youth  is  as  necessary  a piece  of  prudence  as  to  make  provision  against 
decays  of  old  age.  While,  therefore,  wise  nature  prompts  the  happy  youth 
to  join  in  sprightly  amusement,  let  not  the  severe  dictates  of  hoary  age  forbid 
the  useful  impulse  nor  damp  with  serious  gloom  the  season  destined  to  mirth 
and  innocent  festivity. 

“ After  a girl  has  arrived  at  that  period  of  life  when  the  menses  usually 
begin,  and  they  do  not  appear,  but  on  the  contrary  her  health  and  spirits  begin 
to  decline,  we  would  advise,  instead  of  shutting  the  poor  girl  up  in  the  house 
and  dosing  her  with  medicines,  to  place  her  in  a situation  where  she  can  enjoy 
the  benefit  of  fresh  air  and  agreeable,  sensible  company.  There,  let  her  eat 
wholesome  food,  take  sufficient  exercise,  bathe  daily  with  cold  water,  if  pos- 
sible, and  amuse  herself  in  the  most  agreeable  manner;  and  we  have  little 
reason  to  fear  nature,  thus  assisted,  will  not  do  her  proper  work.  Indeed,  she 
seldom  fails  unless  the  fault  is  on  our  side.” 

The  flow  in  the  beginning  is  seldom  so  instantaneous  as  to  take  girls 
unawares  if  they  have  been  properly  instructed.  The  flow  is  generally  pre- 
ceded by  symptoms  that  foretell  its  approach,  as  a sense  of  heat,  weight  and 
dull  pain  in  the  loins,  hardness  of  the  breasts,  headache,  loss  of  appetite, 
lassitude,  paleness  of  the  countenance  and  sometimes  a little  fever.  When 
these  symptoms  appear  about  the  age  at  which  the  menstrual  flow  generally 
begins,  everything  should  be  carefully  avoided  which  may  obstruct  that  neces- 
sary and  salutary  evacuation  and  all  means. should  be  used  to  promote  it  if 
necessary.  If  necessary,  a sitz  bath  can  be  used  but  I would  not  advise  teas 
for  the  first  periods.  After  the  menses  have  begun  the  greatest  care  should  be 
taken  to  avoid  everything  that  may  tend  to  obstruct  them.  Girls  ought  to 
be  exceedingly  cautious  of  what  they  eat  and  drink  at  this  time.  Every- 
thing that  is  cold  or  likely  to  disorder  the  stomach  ought  to  be  avoided. 


A CHAPTER  FOR  YOUNG  WOMEN. 


387 


Avoid  all  cold  drinks  and  articles  that  are  hard  to  digest.  As  it  is  impossible  to 
mention  everything  that  may  disagree  with  girls  at  this  time,  it  is  well  for 
every  girl  to  be  very  attentive  to  what  disagrees  with  her  and  to  carefully 
avoid  it.  Much  meat  should  not  be  eaten ; vinegar,  pickles  and  sour  fruits 
should  be  avoided;  also,  strong  tea  and  coffee  should  be  avoided  at  this  and 
indeed  at  all  times.  Cold  is  very  harmful  at  this  particular  time.  More  of 
the  female  sex  date  their  diseases  from  colds  caught  during  the  menstrual 
period  than  from  all  other  causes.  This  ought  surely  to  put  them  on  their 
guard  and  to  make  them  very  circumspect  in  their  conduct  at  this  time.  A 
degree  of  cold  that  will  not  in  the  least  hurt  them  at  other  times,  will  at  this 
time  be  sufficient  to  entirely  ruin  their  health  and  constitution.  Violent 
passions  or  affections  of  the  mind,  as  anger,  grief,  fear,  etc.,  often  occasion 
obstructions  and  should  therefore  be  avoided  if  possible.  From  whatever 
cause  the  flow  is  obstructed,  except  in  a state  of  pregnancy,  proper  means 
should  be  used  to  restore  it.  For  this  purpose  we  would  recommend  sufficient 
exercise  in  a dry  open  air,  wholesome  diet,  cheerful  company  and  innocent, 
harmless  amusement.  If  these  fail  recourse  must  be  had  to  medicines.  When 
the  stoppage  of  the  flow  is  due  to  a weak  and  relaxed  state,  such  medicines  as 
tend  to  promote  digestion,  brace  up  the  system,  and  assist  in  making  better 
blood  ought  to  be  used,  but  a discharge  should  never  be  forced.  Under  Dis- 
orders of  Menstruation  ” will  be  found  much  of  value  in  the  treatment  of  these 
troubles. 

Now  that  the  menstrual  function  has  become  properly  established  and 
you  have  become  a young  woman,  you  will  need  to  pay  a great  deal  of  atten- 
tion to  other  matters.  I refer  to  your  diet,  the  bowels,  bath,  exercise,  sleep, 
dress  and  social  functions  and  later  to  the  company  of  young  men,  courtship, 
marriage,  etc.  Upon  all  of  these  subjects  the  mother  should  be  freely  con- 
sulted and  thus  needs  to  be  well  informed. 

The  Baths. — A cool  sponge  bath  with  quick  brisk  rubbing  every  morning 
is  a splendid  tonic.  There  should  also  be  a general  bath  once  or  twice  a week. 
The  temperature  of  the  water  should  not  be  hot  but  as  cool  as  you  can  comfort- 
ably stand  it.  Put  cold  water  on  the  back  of  your  neck  before  you  get  into  the 
bath  and  that  will  enable  you  to  use  a cooler  bath  without  noticing  it  so  much. 
Or,  the  water  may  be  cooled  after  you  get  into  it.  Hot  water  weakens  while 
the  cool  bath  stimulates  and  you  are  not  so  likely  to  take  cold  as  when  hot 
water  is  used  and  the  pores  opened.  Never  go  out  of  doors  immediately  after 
taking  a tub  bath.  Do  not  bathe  immediately  before  or  after  a hearty  meal 
nor  when  you  are  over  heated  nor  at  the  time  of  the  menses. 

Diet. — Eat  good,  hearty,  simple  food.  Avoid  pies,  cakes,  puddings, 
hot  biscuits  and  hot  breads.  Neither  is  grease  good  for  you.  Do  not  eat  much 
pork  unless  you  are  a very  hard  worker.  The  rich  foods  cause  pimples,  head- 
aches, constipation,  dyspepsia  and  a bad  complexion.  Do  not  drink  strong 
tea  or  coffee  as  they  are  stimulating  and  constipating  and  are  nerve  and 
complexion  destroyers.  Eat  slowly.  Drink  plenty  of  warm  water  between 
meals.  Milk  is  good  if  it  agrees  with  }^ou.  The  less  liquid  you  drink  at 
meal  times,  the  quicker  and  better  your  food  will  digest. 

The  Bowels. — You  should  have  at  least  one  passage  each  day  and  it  is 
best  to  have  it  after  breakfast.  Make  it  a habit  to  go  to  the  closet  at  a regular 
hour  every  day.  The  movement  of  the  bowels  is  often  a matter  of  habit.  Do 
not  let  anything  interfere  with  the  regular  evacuation  of  the  bowels.  You 
must  be  regular  in  this  to  be  well  and  to  look  well.  Headaches,  poor  health 


388 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


and  bad  complexions  frequently  go  with  constipation.  Massage  your  bowels 
frequently  if  they  are  inclined  to  be  constipated.  Different  exercises  and 
movements  of  your  body  are  helpful.  Drinking  freely  of  cold  water  when 
you  get  up  in  the  morning  is  often  helpful.  It  should  be  drank  from  half  an 
hour  to  an  hour  before  breakfast.  Proper  dieting  and  exercise  are  better  than 
medicines.  If  inclined  to  constipation,  eat  foods  that  leave  a residuum,  like 
well  cooked  oatmeal  or  other  cereals.  Tea  and  coffee  are  constipating.  But- 
ter and  cream  are  a little  loosening. 

Exercise. — Outdoor  exercise  is  the  best.  Walking  is  good  if  you  will 
swing  your  whole  body.  Tennis  is  good  and  so  is  golf  if  not  indulged  in  to 
excess.  Horse  back  riding  is  good  and  also  the  taking  care  of  a horse,  clean- 
ing, feeding  him,  etc.  This  is  very  good  and  a valuable  aid  in  curing  girls 
who  have  chlorosis.  The  exercise  should  not  be  too  violent  and  should  be 
taken  regularly.  Carriage  and  auto  riding  are  good  if  you  do  not  go  so  fast 
as  to  be  on  a strain. 

Sleep. — You  need  plenty  of  sleep  and  as  a rule  should  be  in  bed  by  ten 
o’clock.  Young  people  need  a great  deal  of  sleep.  If  you  do  not  sleep  well 
it  shows  you  are  not  well  or  that  you  are  living  wrong.  Never  take  drugs  to 
cause  sleep. 

Dress. — Another  very  harmful  thing  to  girls  and  young  women  is  theif 
dress.  They  are  fond  of  a fine  shape  and  foolishly  imagine  that  this  can  be  ac- 
quired by  lacing.  Hence,  by  squeezing  their  body  they  confine  the  lungs,  choke 
the  stomach,  and  press  the  liver  and  bowels  out  of  place,  causing  incurable 
maladies.  There  are  many  women  who  will  go  through  life  suffering  from  the 
dreadful  effects  of  this  wretched  custom  of  squeezing  every  girl  into  as  small 
a size  at  the  waist  as  possible.  Human  invention  could  not  possibly  have 
devised  a practice  more  destructive  to  health. 

The  dress  should  always  be  comfortable.  The  skirts  should  be  fastened 
so  as  not  to  drag  at  the  hips.  A corset  is  all  right  if  it  is  not  tight  but  who 
ever  saw  a woman  who  would  admit  that  it  was  ever  tight.  A tight  corset 
presses  upon  and  injures  the  lower  part  of  the  lungs  causing  difficult  breath- 
ing; it  compresses  the  heart  in  the  chest  cavity;  presses  the  stomach,  liver  and 
bowels  out  of  place  often  causing  indigestion  and  it  also  causes  displace- 
ment of  the  womb  and  ovaries  with  their  attendant  evils. 

A good  quality  of  flannel  ought  to  be  worn  seven  or  eight  months  of 
the  year  and  it  would  be  better  if  it  were  worn  throughout  the  year.  Of 
course  it  should  be  of  light  texture  in  the  summer  and  the  underclothing 
may  then  be  sleeveless  if  desired.  Shoes,  stockings,  skirts  and  other  clothing 
should  never  be  worn  while  wet  unless  you  can  keep  moving.  When  you 
cease  moving,  wet  clothing  should  be  changed  for  dry.  Before  putting  on  the 
dry  clothing  the  whole  body  should  be  rubbed  briskly  with  a coarse  towel 
as  a prevention  against  taking  cold. 

Going  into  Society. — You  should  not  go  into  society  too  young.  You 
are  not  then  fully  grown  up  and  matured  and  you  cannot  stand  the  pace  and 
if  you  do  apparently  stand  it  you  will  sacrifice  your  red  cheeks  and  wrinkles 
will  furrow  your  face.  Your  mother  and  father  are  your  best  advisers  still 
and  will  continue  to  be  for  some  years,  and  you  will  need  their  advice  in  seek- 
ing your  companions  of  both  sexes.  Your  parents  have  been  through  it  all 
and  know  boys  and  girls,  young  men  and  young  women,  better  than  you  do. 
They  are  better  readers  of  character  for  they  have  the  knowledge  that  comes 
only  with  experience. 


A CHAPTER  FOR  MARRIED  WOMEN. 


389 


Choosing  a Husband. — You  now  need  the  advice  of  your  parents  more 
than  ever  before,  for  now  the  young  man  will  be  attracted  by  you  and  you 
will  be  attracted  by  him.  This  is  natural.  If  you  make  a mistake  it  may 
wreck  your  whole  life.  Take  your  mother  into  your  confidence.  There  are 
some  rules  that  are  safe  to  follow  in  this  matter.  Never  have  anything  to  do 
with  a young  man  who  is  “ sowing  his  wild  oats,”  or  who  has  sown  them. 
This  may  mean  more  than  you  think.  Ask  your  mother  and  she  can,  if  neces- 
sary, find  out  from  the  family  physician  what  it  means  to  the  young  man  and 
what  it  would  very  likely  mean  to  you  if  you  married  such  a man.  Never 
marry  a man  to  reform  him.  Leave  those  who  need  reforming  severely  alone. 
There  are  men  who  do  not  drink  and  yet  who  are  more  dangerous  to  you  than 
drunkards.  A man  who  sows  his  wild  oats  or  is  morally  lax  may  be  affiicted 
with  some  venereal  disease  that  can  be  given  to  an  innocent  and  pure  wife 
and  thus  entail  upon  her  life-long  suffering.  Marriage  is  a lottery.  You  may 
draw  a prize,  or  your  life  may  be  made  miserable.  On  this  important  matter 
you  need  the  advice  of  your  parents  and  you  should  tell  them  if  you  are  at- 
tracted toward  a young  man  so  that  they  may  find  out  if  he  is  a man  of 
good  character  and  pure  in  heart  and  life.  It  is  so  much  better  to  remain 
single  than  to  make  an  unfortunate  marriage. 

A CHAPTER  FOR  MARRIED  WOMEN. 

Who  Should  Not  Marry. — Not  all  women  should  marry  because  all  women 
ought  not  to  be  mothers.  A woman  with  poor  physical  or  mental  health 
should  not  marry,  for  such  a woman  as  a rule  will  not  bear  healthy  children. 
No  woman  with  consumption  should  marry,  neither  should  she  marry  if  she 
has  any  specific  disease.  This  applies  to  men  as  well  as  to  women.  The 
time  will  come  when  the  state  for  its  own  protection  will  be  compelled  to 
make  laws  governing  marriage.  Any  mental  disease  on  either  or  both  sides 
should  be  a sufficient  cause  for  prohibiting  marriage,  for  the  offspring  of  such 
a marriage  are  likely  to  be  endowed  with  a fearful  heritage.  Women  who 
intend  never  to  bear  and  rear  children  have  no  right  to  marrv  for  this  means 
the  taking  of  measures  to  prevent  conception  or  the  getting  rid  of  the  product 
of  conception  and  the  latter  is,  in  plain  English,  abortion. 

Abortion  and  the  Prevention  of  Conception. — There  is  a great  deal  of 
abortion  being  produced  in  all  classes  of  society.  Abortion  is  not  only  danger- 
ous to  the  woman’s  life  (and  of  course  it  destroys  the  life  of  the  child)  but 
it  injures  the  generative  organs.  The  womb  may  never  get  over  the  ill  effects 
of  abortion  and  many  women  are  thus  doomed  to  poor  health  for  the  rest 
of  their  lives.  Then,  if  at  any  time  afterward,  children  are  desired,  the  woman 
is  likely  to  miscarry  and  may  never  be  able  to  bear  a child.  I say  nothing 
of  the  sin.  I leave  that  to  those  who  ought  to  teach  these  things  to  the  young 
while  they  are  yet  in  the  formative  period  of  life.  Abortion  is  frequently 
caused  by  women  themselves  either  bv  the  aid  of  medicines  or  mechanical 
means  and,  to  the  shame  of  my  profession,  it  must  be  said  that  there  are 
medical  men  who  do  it  for  the  sake  of  financial  gain.  Whenever  abortion  is 
performed,  not  only  the  health  but  the  life  of  the  woman  is  at  stake. 

As  to  the  prevention  of  conception,  most  of  the  means  used  are  verv  in- 
jurious and  especially  so  to  the  woman.  Durine  mv  thirtv  vears  of  the  prac- 
tice of  medicine  I have  seen  a great  deal  of  trouble  and  sorrow  caused  bv  the 
production  of  abortion  and  by  many  of  the  means  used  for  the  prevention  of 
conception. 


390 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


How  to  Conceive  and  Bear  Healthy  Children. — The  one  main  reason  for 
the  establishment  of  marriage  was  for  the  bearing  and  rearing  of  children. 
Nature  has  provided  for  man  and  woman  the  organs  for  this  purpose  and  they 
are  wonderfully  constructed.  The  woman  who  enters  the  marriage  state  with 
the  intention  of  not  bearing  and  raising  children  has  a mistaken  idea  of  its 
intent  and  will  make  both  herself  and  her  husband  unhappy  and  miserable 
and  when  it  is  too  late  she  will  bitterly  repent  of  her  folly.  Children  make  a 
home  happier  and  the  woman  who  bears  them  will  be  healthier  and  happier 
for  it.  If  trained  properly,  children  bring  happiness  to  their  parents  and  are 
a solace  and  comfort  in  their  old  age. 

To  the  woman  who  marries  with  the  intention  of  filling  the  place  for 
which  she  was  made,  I offer  a few  suggestions  as  to  how  to  conceive  and  bear 
healthy,  happy  children.  If  the  parents  are  moderately  healthy  themselves  it 
is  true  to  a great  extent  that  they  can  have  the  kind  of  children  they  wish. 
Very  much  depends  upon  the  physical  and  mental  condition  of  the  parents 
at  the  time  of  conception.  If  parents  are  drunk  at  the  time  the  child  is  con- 
ceived they  cannot  expect  healthy  offspring,  either  physically  or  mentally. 
If  the  parents  dislike  each  other  they  will  transmit  something  of  that  disposi- 
tion to  their  offspring.  If  either  one  or  both  of  the  parents  are  much  worried 
at  the  time  of  conception  the  child  will  be  the  sufferer.  Let  me  instance  a true 
case  that  not  only  cast  a life-long  stigma  upon  the  child  begotten  at  that  time, 
but  brought  never-ending  regret  to  the  parents.  “ A father  had  the  pleasure 
of  seeing  two  of  his  sons  grow  up  strong  and  vigorous,  mentally  and  phys- 
ically, while  a third  was  weak,  irresolute,  fretful,  suspicious,  and  half  demented. 
He  confessed  to  his  physician  the  cause  of  this  family  mishap  in  these  words. 
‘ In  the  summer  of  18 — I failed,  owing  to  my  rogue  of  a partner’s  running  off 
with  all  our  money.  No  man,  perhaps,  ever  felt  such  a misfortune  more  keenly 
than  I did,  and  it  seemed  to  me  I should  never  get  over  the  shock.  I was  com- 
pletely unmanned  and  feared  I should  go  crazy.  Well,  during  this  state 
of  things  my  wife  conceived  and  there  is  the  result,  poor  S — . He  inherits 
just  the  state  of  mind  I was  then  in.’  ” The  sins  of  the  parents  are  visited 
upon  the  children  to  the  third  and  fourth  generations.” 

Therefore,  to  beget  healthy  and  happy  children  the  parents  must  be  in 
the  best  physical  and  mental  condition.  This  may  sound  strange  to  some  of 
my  readers  but  it  is  true.  A cross  and  unhealthy  child  is  so  by  inheritance  or 
training. 

Pregnancy. — After  you  become  pregnant,  you  owe  it  to  yourself,  your 
husband  and  especially  to  your  unborn  little  one,  to  see  that  it  comes  into 
this  world  endowed  with  everything  that  a true,  good  and  devoted  mother 
can  possibly  give  it  both  physically  and  mentally.  To  this  end  keep  yourself 
well  and  happy.  Eat  only  such  foods  as  are  easily  digested  and  that  will  keep 
your  bowels  regular.  Read  only  such  books  as  will  tend  to  make  you  happier 
and  better.  Choose  the  company  of  those  whom  you  feel  will  lift  you  up. 
Gossips  will  not  do  this  so  do  not  listen  to  croakers  who  are  so  ready  to 
converse  with  you  at  this  time.  You  should  get  all  the  sleep  you  can  so  do 
not  have  company  in  the  evening  that  will  worry  you.  In  short,  eat  only 
such  food  as  agrees  with  you,  make  your  bowels  move  every  day,  keep  the 
kidneys  in  good  working  order  and  keep  cheerful  and  you  will  get  through 
your  labor  in  good  shape  and  be  a proud  mother.  Pregnancy  is  a natural 
condition  and  you  can  make  it  comfortable  by  the  care  you  take  of  yourself. 
Most  women,  fortunately,  go  through  labor  all  right  and  by  taking  proper  care 


A CHAPTER  FOR  MARRIED  WOMEN. 


391 


of  yourself  you  will  do  the  same  and  be  made  happy  in  the  possession  of  a 
little  likeness  of  yourself  and  husband. 

God  made  woman  in  such  a way  that  she  can  have  babies.  It  is  not  an 
abnormal  condition  but  is  a natural  physiological  act  and  if,  at  and  before  the 
time  of  labor,  proper  care  and  attention  are  given,  the  woman  will  be  healthier 
and  far  happier  if  she  bears  children.  Prevention  of  conception  in  any  way 
is  injurious.  Getting  rid  of  the  product  of  conception  is  not  only  dangerous 
but  sinful  and  is  injurious  to  the  health  of  the  woman.  If  a woman  finds 
herself  pregnant  she  should  immediately  determine  that  she  will  have  the 
healthiest  baby  possible.  With  this  in  view  she  should  take  the  best  care  of 
herself  in  every  way.  She  should  keep  herself  not  only  in  good  physical  but 
also  in  good  mental  health.  The  clothing  should  be  comfortable  in  every 
way.  The  food  should  be  healthful,  sufficient  and  nourishing.  She  should 
eliminate  trash  and  greasy  food.  She  should  not  stimulate  herself  with  drinks, 
tea,  coffee,  etc.  Her  bowels  should  be  kept  regular  through  diet  or  by  the 
aid  of  medicine.  Her  mind  should  be  kept  healthy  with  pleasant  thoughts, 
agreeable  company,  and  enjoyable  reading.  A mother  can  have  a good  baby 
if  she  has  pleasant  and  healthy  surroundings.  Given  such  conditions  and  if 
she  is  healthy  herself  she  can  have  a good  and  healthy  baby.  So  she  should 
keep  herself  healthy  and  sweet  tempered  and  then  when  her  baby  is  born  it 
will  have  a goodly  heritage  whether  it  be  born  in  a palace  or  in  a hovel. 

SIGNS  AND  SYMPTOMS  OF  PREGNANCY. 

Cessation  or  Stopping  of  Menses. — If  the  menstrual  periods  stop  without 
any  other  apparent  cause  and  the  woman  misses  one  period,  she  may  be 
pregnant.  Especially  is  this  the  case  if  the  woman  has  previously  been  reg- 
ular. If  she  has  been  irregular,  of  course  missing  one  period  may  not  mean 
much.  A single  menstrual  period  may  be  missed  by  women  who  fear  the 
probability  of  pregnancy.  Usually,  however,  missing  a period,  especially 
with  married  women,  is  an  important  sign  of  pregnancy. 

Changes  in  the  Breasts. — The  changes  in  a woman’s  breasts  in  the  first 
pregnancy  are  quite  characteristic.  The  woman  in  the  early  weeks  complains 
most  frequently  of  a soreness,  tenderness  and  prickling  in  these  regions. 
After  the  second  month  the  breasts  begin  to  increase  in  size  as  they  be- 
come larger  a delicate  tracery  of  bluish  veins  appears  just  beneath  the  skin. 
The  nipples  soon  become  considerably  larger  and  more  erectile  and,  after  the 
first  few  months,  a thin  yellowish  fluid  (colostrum)  may  be  pressed  from  them 
by  gentle  massage.  The  coloring  darkens  around  the  nipples  and  becomes 
broader  and  much  more  deeply  pigmented.  This  depends  upon  the  complexion 
of  the  individual.  In  blondes  the  areolae  and  nipples  assume  a pinkish  appear- 
ance, while  in  brunettes  they  become  dark  brown  and  occasionally  almost 
black. 

The  Kidneys,  Bladder  and  Urine. — The  kidneys  act  more  frequently  and 
the  urine  is  considerably  increased  in  quantity.  The  urine  should  be  examined 
frequently  by  a ph^’-sician  during  pregnancy.  As  the  womb  enlarges  it  rises 
up  into  the  abdominal  cavity  and  carries  the  bladder  with  it.  Before  this, 
pregnancy  often  causes  trouble  with  the  bladder  and  there  is  more  frequent 
passing  of  the  urine.  Sometimes  the  passing  of  urine  is  painful  and  some- 
times there  is  an  inability  to  hold  the  urine. 

Nausea  and  Vomiting  or  “ Morning  Sickness.” — The  establishment  of 
pregnancy  is  often  marked  by  sickness  at  the  stomach  and  vomiting.  This 


392 


THE  PEOPLE^S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


occurs  in  a larg-e  per  cent,  of  the  cases.  It  is  frequently  called  the  morning 
sickness  and,  as  the  name  implies,  it  usually  comes  in  the  earlier  part  of  the 
day.  This  symptom  usually  appears  about  the  end  of  the  first  month  and 
lasts  for  from  six  to  eight  weeks  although  some  patients  suffer  longer.  In 
treating  morning  sickness  be  careful  about  the  diet.  Eat  nourishing,  easily 
digested  foods  and  foods  if  possible  that  leave  a residuum  so  that  the  bowels 
may  be  regulated  by  the  diet.  Constipation  frequently  accompanies  this 
nausea  and  vomiting.  The  patient  should  eat  as  much  fruit  as  possible  if  it 
does  not  disorder  the  stomach.  Stay  out  of  doors  as  much  as  possible.  The 
bowels  should  always  be  kept  open  and  if  this  cannot  be  done  by  dieting  it 
must  be  done  with  medicines.  Sick  stomachs  and  headaches  in  pregnant 
women  are  frequently  caused  by  constipated  bowels.  Salts  may  be  used  be- 
fore breakfast;  just  enough  to  cause  one  or  at  most  two  passages  daily.  All 
articles  of  food  that  sicken  should  be  avoided.  Milk  often  disagrees  and  is 
frequently  constipating.  Buttermilk  sometimes  agrees  with  the  patient. 
Keep  the  kidneys  working  freely  by  drinking  plenty  of  water.  Bathe  fre- 
quently with  cold  or  cool  water.  Gently  rub  the  abdomen,  back,  hips  and 
thighs.  If  other  means  fail  to  give  relief,  oxalate  of  cerium,  in  5-grain  doses, 
after  meals  will  be  found  a good  remedy. 

People’s  Home  Remedies  for  Morning  Sickness. — 

1.  Wild  Yam  and  Swamp  Dogwood. — Make  a decoction  of  the  ropt  of 
wild  yam  and  the  bark  of  swamp  dogwood  and  take  from  1 to  4 ounces  every 
Y2  to  2 hours  until  relieved. 

2.  Coffee,  Toast,  Lemonade,  Etc. — Morning  sickness  during  pregnancy 
may  often  be  avoided  by  taking  a little  coffee  and  toast  in  bed  each  morning 
before  arising.  Lemonade,  smoked  herring  and  sardines  are  good  in  some 
cases.  ■ 

3.  Teas. — To  prevent  morning  sickness  the  patient  should  drink  a cup  of 
peppermint  or  chamomile  tea  about  an  hour  before  rising  each  morning.  A tea 
made  from  red  rose  willow  bark  is  also  good. 

People’s  Home  Remedy  for  Piles  in  Pregnant  Women. — 

Cream  of  Tartar  and  Molasses. — For  piles  in  pregnant  women,  prevent 
costiveness  by  taking  cream  of  tartar  in  teaspoonful  doses  mixed  with 
molasses  or  water.  If  the  tumors  are  painful  apply  a poultice  of  slippery  elm 
bark,  and  milk  or  water.  At  the  same  time  apply  two  or  three  times  a day 
an  ointment  made  of  four  teaspoonfuls  of  spirits  of  turpentine  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  fresh  unsalted  butter.  These  should  be  well  mixed. 

People’s  Home  Remedy  for  Sour  Stomach,  Heartburn  or  Dyspepsia  of  Preg- 
nant Women. — 

1.  Lemon. — A slice  of  sugared  lemon  held  in  the  mouth  will  often  give 
relief. 

Quickening. — This  occurs  about  the  18th  or  20th  week,  the  woman  being 
conscious  of  slight  fluttering  movements  in  her  abdomen  which  gradually 
increase  in  intensity.  These  are  usually  due  to  the  movements  of  the  child 
(foetus)  and  their  appearance  is  designated  as  “ quickening  ” or  the  ‘‘  percep- 
tion of  life.”  In  rare  instances  it  has  occurred  as  early  as  the  10th  week. 

Cravings. — Occasionally  the  appetite  becomes  very  capricious  and  the 
woman  evinces  an  unconquerable  desire  for  peculiar  and  sometimes  revolting 
articles  of  food. 

Enlargement  of  Abdomen. — There  is  a gradual  enlargement  of  the  womb. 


A CHAPTER  FOR  MARRIED  WOMEN. 


393 


This  causes  an  enlargement  of  the  abdomen  which  becomes  quite  noticeable 
at  about  the  fourth  month  when  the  top  of  the  womb  is  above  the  pelvic  bone. 
It  is  midway  to  the  navel  at  the  fifth  month.  The  abdomen  increases  in  size 
up  to  the  tim.e  of  labor. 

Cervix  or  Neck  of  the  Womb. — Beginning,  with  the  second  month  of  preg- 
nancy the  cervix  or  neck  of  the  womb  becomes  considerably  softened  and  in 
the  first  pregnancy  the  outer  opening  of  the  womb  (os  externum)  ofifers  to 
the  finger  a sensation  or  feeling  similar  to  that  obtained  by  pressing  upon 
the  more  yielding  lips  of  the  mouth  instead  of  the  harder  cartilage  of  the  nose. 

The  Foetal  or  Baby  Heart. — This  can  usually  be  heard  about  the  18th  or 
20th  week.  Ordinarily  it  beats  from  120  to  140  per  minute. 

Later  Symptoms, — Several  weeks  before  the  onset  of  labor,  the  abdomen, 
or  belly,  undergoes  a marked  change  in  shape,  its  lower  portion  becoming 
more  pendulous  (hanging  down)  whereas  in  the  costal  (rib)  region  it  looks 
decidedly  flat.  The  woman  feels  as  if  her  waist  line  had  become  lower. 
The  breathing  is  easier  but  walking  becomes  more  difficult  and  the  woman 
may  suffer  from  severe  cramp-like  pains  in  the  lower  limbs  and  there  may  be 
a more  frequent  desire  to  urinate.  During  the  last  few  weeks  of  pregnancy 
the  vaginal  secretion  is  increased  in  amount,  the  lips  of  the  vagina  become 
more  swollen  and  open  more  or  less  widely.  Not  infrequently  the  patient  may 
experience  a few  transient  pains  for  a number  of  days  before  confinement  and 
especially  is  this  likely  to  be  true  if  the  bowels  are  constipated.  The  duration 
of  pregnancy  is  usually  about  forty  weeks. 

In  the  Baby  Department  more  will  be  found  concerning  pregnancy  and 
labor. 

LABOR. 

Preparations  for  Labor. — You  should  have  on  hand  the  following  articles. 

5 basins, 

T two-quart  fountain  syringe, 

15  yards  unsterilized  gauze, 

6 sanitary  bed  pads ; or, 

2 pounds  cotton  batting  for  making  same, 

1 piece  rubber  sheeting,  size  1 by  2 yds., 

1 piece  rubber  sheeting,  size  % by  1 yd., 

4 ounces  permanganate  of  potash, 

8 ounces  oxalic  acid, 

4 ounces  boric  acid, 

1 tube  green  soap, 

'1  tube  vaseline, 

100  Bernay’s  bichloride  tablets, 

8 ounces  alcohol, 

2 drams  ergotol, 

1 nail  brush, 

2 pounds  absorbent  cotton, 

Squibb’s  chloroform. 

The  nurse  should  prepare  enough  bed  and  perineal  pads.  Sterilize  them 
a week  before,  together  with  towels  or  diapers,  1 sheet,  pound  absorbent 
cotton  and  some  cotton  pledgets  or  gauze  sponges.  At  commencement  of 
labor  she  should  prepare  two  large  pitchers  of  boiled  water,  keeping  one  hot, 


394 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


and  cover  them  carefully  with  a sterile  towel.  The  above  is  a good  list  of 
articles  to  have  on  hand  but  in  some  cases  it  may  not  be  possible  to  have  all 
these  things. 

Care  and  cleanliness  upon  the  part  of  the  attendants  are  essential.  A 
great  many  cases  of  childbed  fever  are  produced  by  carelessness.  This  is 
putting  it  mildly.  Some  attendants  want  to  do  too  much  and  some  have  dirty 
hands.  Also,  some  parts  of  the  after-birth  are  sometimes  left  in  the  womb 
and  produce  trouble.  The  doctor  or  midwife  who  attends  a woman  during 
confinement  assumes  a serious  responsibility  The  troubles  occurring  at  this 
time  are  mostly  due  to  the  carelessness  of  the  doctor,  midwife,  nurse,  or  lastly, 
of  the  patient  herself.  Labor  is  a physiological  process  and  with  proper  care 
a healthy  woman  will  come  through  it  well.  Septic  troubles  are  usually  due 
to  carelessness. 

Presentation  (Part  to  Come  First). — Presentation  refers  to  the  position 
of  the  child.  According  to  Schroeder  the  head  comes  first  in  90  per  cent,  of 
the  cases.  So,  fortunately,  nature  has  done  good  work  and  if  the  woman’s 
pelvis  is  normal  the  labor  comes  off  regularly  and  safely.  Comparatively, 
very  few  women  die  in  labor. 

Breech  Presentation. — This  does  not  often  occur.  It  simply  means  that 
the  breech  or  buttocks  come  first  instead  of  the  head.  The  labor  is  then  longer 
and  more  dangerous  to  the  child  and  especially  when  the  head  of  the  child  is 
engaged  by  the  bones  of  the  mother.  The  cord  is  then  pressed  upon  and  the 
circulation  of  the  child  is  stopped,  so  that  the  head  must  be  born  quickly  or 
the  child  will  suffocate.  In  breech  cases  I always  have  warm  and  cold  water 
ready  in  two  separate  tubs.  I quickly  cut  the  cord  and  if  the  child  does  not 
breathe,  I do  not  tie  the  cord  until  I have  started  the  breathing  by  the  fol- 
lowing measures.  First  cleanse  the  child’s  mouth  with  your  finger  and  remove 
all  the  mucus.  Then  with  your  hand  dash  the  cold  and  hot  water  alternately 
upon  the  child’s  breast  and  at  the  same  time  slap  it  lightly  upon  the  seat  with 
your  hand.  If  this  does  not  cause  breathing,  alternately  put  the  child  into  the 
tub  of  cold  and  warm  water,  keeping  its  head  above  water.  If  necessary, 
use  artificial  respiration.  As  soon  as  breathing  has  started  tie  the  cord  as 
directed  elsewhere. 

Sometimes,  in  breech  cases,  you  find  one  foot  down.  Treat  in  the  same 
way  as  for  breech.  If  in  the  labor  you  find  a hand  and  arm,  and  in  feeling  up 
along  the  arm  you  reach  the  womb  and  find  the  child’s  body,  you  are  very 
likely  to  have  a shoulder  presentation.  This  does  not  often  occur  but  when  it 
does  it  means  you  must  turn  the  child  in  the  womb  and  you  must  get  busy 
at  once  and  do  it.  Fortunately,  nature  generally  presents  the  head  first  and  if 
the  woman  is  well  and  the  parts  are  large  enough  everything  is  likely  to  go 
well. 

Labor  Pains. — The  pain  usually  begins  in  the  sacral  (back)  region  and 
slowly  passes  to  the  abdomen  and  down  the  thighs.  The  pain  is  different  in 
different  individuals.  In  some  it  is  very  severe.  At  the  onset  of  labor  the 
pains  usually  come  on  at  intervals  of  from  15  to  30  minutes  and  as  labor  ad- 
vances they  become  more  frequent  and  eventually  occur  every  2 or  3 minutes. 
Their  average  duration  is  one  minute. 

Duration  of  Labor. — The  time  varies  greatlv  in  different  cases.  It  usu- 
ally lasts  about  six  hours.  In  the  first  labor  it  is  usually  longer. 

The  First  Stage  of  Labor. — About  the  end  of  the  tenth  lunar  month  (280 
days)  the  woman  begins  to  experience  cramp-like  pains  in  the  lower  portion 


A CHAPTER  FOR  MARRIED  WOMEN. 


395 


of  the  abdomen.  These  she  frequently  mistakes  for  colic.  At  first  they  come 
at  long  intervals.  They  are  most  marked  in  the  region  of  the  back  and  grad- 
ually extend  towards  the  abdomen  and  down  the  thighs.  As  they  become 
more  frequent  their  severity  increases.  Then  the  “ show  ’’appears.  The  pa- 
tient is  quite  comfortable  between  the  pains.  After  a time  there  is  a sudden 
gush  of  clear  fluid  from  the  vagina,  which,  in  the  majority  of  cases,  indicates 
that  the  cervix  or  neck  of  the  womb  has  become  dilated  and  that  the  mem- 
branes have  ruptured.  Sometimes  this  rupture  of  the  membranes  occurs  be- 
fore complete  dilation  of  the  cervix  and  occasionally  it  occurs  even  before  the 
onset  of  labor.  In  such  cases  labor  proceeds  more  slowly.  These  are  called 
“ dry  ” labors. 

The  Second  Stage  of  Labor. — For  a time  after  this  watery  discharge  there 
is  a lull  in  the  labor  pains  after  which  they  recur  more  frequently  and  vigor- 
ously and  compel  the  patient  to  take  to  her  bed.  The  child  at  this  time  de- 
scends to  the  pelvis  and  after  a time  the  patient  experiences  a marked  desire 
to  go  to  stool,  which  indicates  that  the  head  has  passed  into  the  pelvic  cavity 
and  is  pressing  upon  the  lower  bowel  (rectum).  In  a short  time  the  pelvic 
floor  begins  to  bulge  with  each  pain  and  a little  later  the  scalp  of  the  baby 
may  be  seen  at  the  opening.  With  each  pain  the  perineum  bulges  more  and 
more  and  the  vulva  becomes  more  and  more  dilated  and  distended  by  the  head. 
The  head  advances  a little  with  each  pain  and  recedes  in  the  intervals  between 
them.  This  continues  until  the  temple  bones  become  engaged  in  the  vulva 
(opening)  when  further  going  back  is  impossible  and  soon  the  head  is  born. 
In  the  majority  of  cases  the  perineum  (flesh  between  the  vulva  and  anus)  is 
torn,  but  usually  this  is  only  to  a slight  extent. 

Immediately  after  its  birth  the  head  falls  backward  so  that  the  face 
touches  the  anus  or  opening  of  the  bowel.  Soon  the  back  of  the  head  turns 
toward  one  of  the  thighs  (the  head  should  be  supported  by  your  hand)  and 
eventually  the  head  assumes  a sidewise  position.  The  perineum  is  now 
quite  tightly  drawn  around  the  neck  of  the  infant  whose  face  in  consequence 
becomes  marked  and  dark  and  the  inexperienced  attendant  often  has  an  al- 
most uncontrollable  desire  to  seize  and  extract  the  head  by  pulling  upon  it. 
This,  however,  is  usually  unnecessary  for  the  next  pain  forces  the  upper 
shoulder  down  under  the  pelvic  bone  where  it  becomes  fixed ; while  the  lower 
or  back  shoulder  passes  over  the  anterior  margin  of  the  perineum  after  which 
the  body  of  the  child  is  rapidly  expelled. 

The  Third  Stage  of  Labor. — The  pains  cease  and  the  patient  feels  more 
comfortable.  Now  the  womb  has  become  much  smaller  and  forms  a solid 
lump,  barely  reaching  the  navel.  After  a time  the  contractions  of  the  womb 
and  the  pains  commence  once  more  and  the  woman  begins  to  bear  down. 
A few  minutes  later  the  body  of  the  womb  may  be  seen  to  rise  up  a little 
and  a slight  swelling  appears  immediately  above  the  symphysis  pubis.  This 
shows  that  the  placenta  (afterbirth)  has  become  separated  from  the  inside 
of  the  womb  and  is  now  in  the  lower  part  of  the  womb  or  the  upper  part  of 
the  vagina.  From  this  position  it  is  expelled  by  the  action  of  the  abdominal 
muscles.  In  some  women  the  entire  placental  period  may  be  stopped  almost 
instantly  within  a few  minutes  after  the  birth  of  the  child,  while  in  others 
the  placenta  may  remain  for  hours  unless  forced  out  by  proper  manipulation. 
In  this  stage  there  is  always  some  bleeding  and  not  infrequently  the  patient 
has  a chill  during  this  period  or  immediately  after  its  completion.  This,  in 


396 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


itself,  although  it  may  appear  somewhat  alarming,  has  no  significance  as  it  is 
merely  because  of  the  nervous  condition  of  the  patient. 

Delivery  of  the  Child. — Before  labor  the  patient  should  be  bathed  and 
given  an  injection  to  move  the  bowels.  The  bed  should  be  properly  pre- 
pared but  the  patient  need  not  yet  go  to  bed.  Wash  the  vulva  and  inner 
surfaces  of  the  thighs  as  everything  must  be  clean  for  the  attendant.  The 
physician  or  midwife  should  be  thoroughly  clean  (aseptic).  Gloves  are  now 
often  worn  and  they  must  be  sterile.  Too  frequent  examinations  should  be 
avoided.  Watch  the  case  carefully  after  you  have  found  out  the  presenta- 
tion and  handle  the  genital  parts  as  little  as  possible.  If  everything  is  all 
right  you  can  do  nothing  at  first.  When  the  head  presses  on  the  perineum 
and  that  is  hard,  keep  the  head  back  until  the  perineum  is  softened  and  in 
better  shape.  While  the  head  is  being  born  keep  it  from  pressing  on  the 
perineum  as  much  as  possible.  As  soon  as  the  head  is  born,  clean  the  mouth 
and  at  the  same  time  see  if  the  cord  is  around  the  neck  of  the  child.  If  it  is, 
it  should  be  removed.  Hold  the  head  in  your  hand  and  simply  assist  when 
things  are  going  right.  When  the  child  is  born,  if  it  is  all  right,  hand  it  to 
the  nurse  and  attend  to  the  mother.  If  the  child  does  not  act  as  it  should 
and  the  mother  is  all  right,  then  you  should  attend  to  the  child.  If  necessary, 
warm  and  cold  water  may  be  used  to  start  breathing  as  directed  under 
“ Breech  Presentation.”  Artificial  respiration  may  have  to  be  resorted  to 
and  should  be  kept  up  for  half  an  hour  or  longer  if  necessary. 

Dressing  and  Tying  the  Cord. — Tie  the  cord  with  a stout  clean  thread, 
tight  enough  to  prevent  bleeding.  It  should  be  tied  from  1^2  to  2 inches 
from  the  body.  Then  put  sterilized  absorbent  cotton  around  the  cord  and 
close  to  the  body.  Turn  the  cord  up  over  the  cotton,  put  a similar  layer  of 
cotton  over  the  cord  and  then  put  on  the  bandage.  If  you  do  not  have  the 
sterilized  cotton  you  can  use  an  old  but  clean  linen  handkerchief.  Cut  a 
block  three  inches  square  and  use  two  thicknesses.  In  the  center  cut  an 
opening;  grease  the  cord  and  then  put  it  through  the  opening  being  certain 
that  the  cloth  is  close  to  the  body  of  the  child.  Turn  the  cord  up  over  the 
cloth  and  put  over  this  two  thicknesses  of  linen  the  size  of  the  first  pieces 
and  then  apply  the  bandage.  The  cord  is  usually  tied  before  being  cut,  the 
exception  being  when  the  child  is  nearly  dead  and  does  not  breathe  properly. 
In  such  a case  it  is  best  to  leave  the  cord  untied  so  that  it  may  bleed  a little 
and  aid  in  establishing  respiration. 

Delivery  of  the  Afterbirth  (placenta). — After  the  child  is  born  see  whether 
the  womb  of  the  mother  is  contracted  or  soft.  You  must  look  out  for  bleed- 
ing. If  the  afterbirth  is  not  delivered  and  the  woman  flows  much,  then  it 
must  be  delivered.  Press  on  the  top  side  of  the  womb  and  keep  pressing 
gently  while  the  placenta  is  being  expelled.  In  this  way  you  can  keep  hold 
of  the  womb  and  produce  the  contraction  after  the  placenta  is  expelled.  With 
the  other  hand  you  should  take  hold  of  the  cord  and  simply  assist  but  do  not 
pull.  When  the  placenta  comes  it  should  be  twisted  so  as  to  twist  the  mem- 
branes. If  the  womb  is  large  after  the  placenta  is  expelled  you  are  very 
likely  to  have  clots  in  the  womb  from  the  bleeding  and  it  may  be  necessary 
for  you  to  put  your  hand  into  the  womb  and  release  the  clots.  Be  sure  that 
the  hand  is  perfectly  clean.  At  the  same  time  keep  the  other  hand  on  the 
abdomen  and  hold  the  womb;  and  if  it  is  not  contracted  the  hand  or  finger 
iri  the  womb  and  the  hand  on  the  womb  outside  will  stop  bleeding  and  soon 
produce  contraction. 


A CHAPTER  FOR  MARRIED  WOMEN. 


397 


If  there  is  but  little  bleeding  but  the  womb  is  hard  and  soft  by  turns, 
gently  rub  the  abdomen  over  the  womb  with  the  hand.  The  womb  should 
be  low  down  and  not  much  larger  than  the  fist.  Never  leave  the  patient  until 
an  hour  after  the  placenta  has  been  delivered  and  not  then  unless  the  womb 
has  been  thoroughly  contracted  and  remains  so. 

Hemorrhage  or  Bleeding. — If  the  bleeding  is  very  severe  you  should  put 
one  hand  into  the  womb  (being  sure  the  hand  is  perfectly  clean)  and  at  the 
same  time  keep  the  other  hand  on  the  belly  or  abdomen  and  hold  the  womb. 
With  one  hand  in  the  womb  and  the  other  outside  and  over  it  they  may  be 
pressed  together  and  the  flow  of  blood  checked.  Ergot  is  often  given  for 
bleeding.  You  can  give  a teaspoonful  at  once  and  half  a teaspoonful  again 
in  half  an  hour  if  necessary.  If  no  ergot  is  at  hand,  put  a teaspoonful  of 
boiled  vinegar  into  a glass  one-third  full  of  water  and  give  two  teaspoonfuls 
frequently.  Or,  you  can  give  two  teaspoonfuls  of  a tea  made  by  putting  a 
handful  of  stick  cinnamon  into  a pint  of  boiling  water.  Gauze  cloths  may  be 
wrung  out  of  vinegar  water  and  put  into  the  womb  but  this  treatment  needs 
an  experienced  hand.  Raising  the  foot  of  the  bed  and  keeping  the  head  low 
will  aid  much.  The  fluid  extract  of  cranesbill  is  also  good  when  cloths  are 
wet  in  it  and  put  into  the  womb.  A tea  made  from  cranesbill  will  do  as  well 
as  the  fluid  extract. 

Caution. — In  case  the  attendants  discover  birthmarks  or  any  deformity 
of  the  child,  they  should  use  every  precaution  to  prevent  the  mother’s  know- 
ing or  suspecting  them  as  it  may  grieve  her  to  the  extent  of  causing  convul- 
sions and  consequent  injury. 

DISEASES  ATTENDING  AND  FOLLOWING  PREGNANCY  AND 

LABOR. 


Dropsy. 

A pregnant  woman  should  attend  to  this  immediately.  It  may  amount 
to  nothing  or  it  may  mean  much.  It  may  appear  under  the  eyes  or  in  the 
lower  extremities  or  it  may  be  general  and  involve  any  portion  of  the  body. 
It  may  be  due  to  pressure  if  the  kidneys  are  working  well.  A physician 
should  be  called. 


Eclampsy — (Convulsions). 

This  is  an  acute  disease  which  may  occur  in  pregnant  women,  before, 
during,  or  after  confinement.  Eclampsy  is  characterized  by  convulsions. 
The  treatment  should  be  preventive.  This  is  very  important.  Frequent 
examination  of  the  urine  should  be  made  during  pregnancy,  once  a month 
at  least  for  the  first  six  months  and  oftener  thereafter.  If  the  woman  has 
headaches,  disturbance  of  vision  or  dropsy  the  doctor  must  be  notified. 
Be  on  the  lookout  for  albumen  in  the  urine.  See  if  there  is  a normal  amount 
of  urea  in  the  urine.  If  this  falls  considerably  below  normal  and  a con- 
siderable amount  of  albumen  is  present,  the  patient  is  in  danger  and  must 
be  watched  closely.  Examine  the  urine  daily.  In  such  cases  treatment  must 
be  given  by  a doctor.  In  this  way  many  cases  of  eclampsy  will  be  avoided. 
Rest  in  bed,  live  on  a milk  diet  and  keep  the  bowels  open  and  the  skin  func- 
tions good.  Proper  treatment  is  often  followed  by  better  symptoms — an 
increased  flow  of  urine,  less  albumen  and  an  excretion  of  more  urea.  If  the 
disease  continues  labor  must  be  induced. 


398 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Child-Bed  Fever — Puerperal  Fever — Puerperal  Infection. 

CAUSES. — The  most  usual  cause  of  this  disease  is  the  dirty  hands 
of  the  doctor  or  midwife.  Unclean  hands,  instruments,  syringes  and  clothes 
are  the  causes.  Cleanliness  of  person  and  clothing  is  necessary  m the  at- 
tendants. Disease  of  the  attendants  or  poisons  from  diseases  they  carelessly 
carry  with  them  also  cause  child-bed  fever. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  patient  feels  tired  and  has  headache  and  some  chilli- 
ness. After  everything  has  gone  smoothly  for  the  first  three  or  four  days 
there  is  a rising  temperature,  103  degrees  or  higher.  At  the  same  time  there 
is  some  tenderness  in  the  lower  abdomen.  The  womb  is  larger  and  is  sensi- 
tive to  pressure.  The  discharge  is  increased  in  quantity  and  is  partly  bloody 
and  partly  purulent  in  character  and  in  the  purely  septic  forms  it  is  prac- 
tically devoid  of  odor.  If  the  temperature  is  very  high  the  secretion  is  often 
diminished  and  occasionally  disappears  entirely.  In  reality,  in  the  most 
virulent  cases  and  especially  in  those  due  to  pure  streptococcus  infection 
there  is  very  little  if  any  odor  to  be  noticed  in  the  discharge. 
TREATMENT.— 

The  treatment  should  be  of  a preventive  nature.  The  most  scrupulous 
cleanliness  immediately  before  and  during  labor  is  the  means  upon  which 
we  have  mainly  to  rely  in  limiting  the  disease.  This  cleanliness  applies  not 
only  to  the  doctor  and  midwife  but  also  to  the  nurse  or  to  any  one  who  comes 
in  contact  with  the  patient.  If  a douche  is  necessary  after  labor  it  must  be 
cleanly  given.  Everything  that  comes  in  contact  with  the  mother’s  gener- 
ative organs  must  be  thoroughly  aseptic ; then  it  is  simply  impossible  to 
poison  her  with  germs. 

Curative  treatment  must  be  given  by  one  thoroughly  aseptic  and  who 
understands  the  case.  Curetting  of  the  womb  may  be  necessary  though 
any  debris  may  generally  be  removed  from  the  womb  with  the  fingers  and 
this  is  the  safer  way.  After  the  womb  has  been  cleaned  out  a douche  of  sterile 
salt  solution  should  be  given. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Hot  Fomentations,  Etc. — Hot  fomentations  of  tansy  and  hops  are 
excellent  when  applied  to  the  abdomen  and  should  be  renewed  often.  Stra- 
monium leaves  are  also  valuable  when  bruised  and  applied  to  the  abdomen 
as  a warm  fomentation.  If  the  fever  still  continues  and  the  tongue  is 
coated,  give,  in  15-grain  doses  every  three  hours,  equal  parts  of  powdered 
blue  flag  root,  blood  root  and  nitre.  Also  apply  a mustard  plaster  to  the 
feet,  back  of  the  neck  and  the  inside  of  the  thighs. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — A doctor  should  always  be  called  for  the  treat- 
ment of  this  disease. 

Milk  Leg. 

(Phlegmasia  Alba  Dolens.) 

This  disease  is  rare,  though  when  it  does  appear  it  is  generally  during 
the  second  week  after  labor  or  later. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  first  symptom  is  pain  along  the  vessels  of  the  inner 
part  of  the  thigh.  In  thin  individuals  these  vessels  may  be  felt  as  hard 
sensitive  cords.  At  the  same  time  swelling  appears  in  the  feet  and  soon 
extends  upwards.  This  swelling  is  associated  with  severe  pain  and  usu- 
ally lasts  for  a considerable  time.  Months  may  elapse  before  the  patient 
can  walk  with  comfort. 


A CHAPTER  FOR  MARRIED  WOMEN. 


399 


TREATMENT.— 

Relieve  the  painful  symptoms  and  attend  to  the  general  health.  Open 
the  bowels  with  salts.  Aconite  and  belladonna  are  good  in  small  doses.  Give 
witch  hazel  locally  and  internally.  Apply  hot  applications. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Vinegar  and  Salt — Tansy,  Hops,  Boneset,  Etc. — In  case  of  milk  leg 
the  bowels  should  be  thoroughly  purged  every  two  or  three  days  and  the 
leg  frequently  bathed  with  a mixture  of  vinegar,  salt  and  water.  Also,  occa- 
sionally bathe  the  leg  with  a tea  of  bitter  herbs  such  as  tansy,  hops  and 
boneset. 

2.  Mayweed,  Smartweed,  Etc. — To  induce  sweating  the  patient  should 
drink  freely  of  a tea  made  of  mayweed  and  smartweed.  Should  the  disease 
become  chronic,  one  of  the  best  things  to  do  is  to  steam  the  leg  daily  over 
a hot  decoction  of  tansy,  boneset  and  hops  and  apply  twice  daily  the  follow- 
ing liniment.  The  liniment  is  made  by  mixing  3 ounces  of  spirits  of  cam- 
phor, 3 ounces  of  sweet  oil,  IV2  ounces  of  laudanum  and  1%  ounces  of 
creosote. 

Sore  Nipples. 

(See  Baby  Department.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Partridge  Berry. — Take  two  ounces  of  the  fresh  herb  and  make  a 
strong  decoction  in  a pint  of  boiling  water;  strain  and  add  as  much  cream 
as  there  is  liquid.  Boil  the  whole  down  to  the  consistency  of  a soft  salve 
and  when  cool  anoint  the  nipples  each  time  after  the  child  has  nursed. 

Caked  and  Broken  Breasts. 

(See  Baby  Department.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Catalpa  Leaves. — Leaves  of  the  catalpa  tree  wilted  and  applied  are 
good  for  caked  breasts. 

2.  Ginger  and  Honey. — For  sore  and  caked  breasts  spread  some  strained 
honey  on  a cloth  and  sprinkle  thick  with  ginger  and  lay  on  the  breast  as 
warm  as  can  be  borne. 

3.  Brandy. — Ring  flannels  out  of  hot  brandy  and  apply  to  broken 
breasts. 

4.  Poke  Root  Poultice. — Roast  some  freshly  dug  poke  root  in  ashes 
until  soft  and  then  mix  with  hot  water  and  apply  to  caked  breasts. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Poke  root  poultices  thus  prepared  are  excellent 
applications  for  troubles  of  this  kind. 

5.  Beeswax  and  Sweet  Oil. — When  lumps  or  cakes  remain  after  the  in- 
flammation has  subsided  apply  a plaster  made  of  beeswax  and  sweet  oil  to 
the  breasts. 

6.  Vinegar  and  Hop  Poultices. — For  broken  breasts  apply  warm  vinegar 
or  hop  poultices. 

7.  Camphor,  Etc. — Bathe  the  breasts  three  times  a day  the  first  three 
or  four  days  with  a liniment  made  of  equal  parts  of  camphor,  oil  of  cajeput 
and  oil  of  sassafras.  Follow  each  application  with  an  ointment  made  by 
taking  V2  ounce  of  yellow  beeswax,  1%  ounces  of  finely  cut  castile  soap 
and  1 ounce  of  lard.  Melt  these  slowly  and  before  cool  add  8 drams  of 
Jamaica  spirits  in  which  there  have  been  dissolved  30  grains  of  camphor. 


400 


THE  PEOPLE’S  liOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


This  may  be  applied  to  the  breasts  by  cutting  a hole  for  the  nipple  in  the 
center  of  a piece  of  linen  the  size  of  the  breast  and  spreading  the  ointment  on 
the  cloth.  It  should  be  applied  as  warm  as  can  be  borne  and  removed  and 
heated  every  five  or  six  hours  to  keep  it  soft.  Bathe  with  the  liniment  each 
time  before  applying  the  ointment.  If  matter  forms  apply  either  bread  and 
milk  or  a slippery  elm  poultice. 

Physician’s  Remarks. — Camphor  will  stop  the  secretion  of  milk  but  in 
case  of  a broken  breast  this  will  probably  not  be  of  importance. 

Abortion. 

Among  medical  men  it  is  customary  to  speak  of  all  cases  occurring  be- 
fore the  28th  week  as  abortions.  Generally  it  is  called  a miscarriage.  Some 
call  it  an  abortion  only  when  it  occurs  before  the  16th  week  and  it  is  then 
called  a miscarriage  if  it  occurs  between  the  16th  and  28th  weeks  and  after 
that  time,  if  occurring  before  the  natural  time,  it  is  called  premature  labor. 
Abortion,  miscarriage  or  premature  labor  is  an  expulsion  of  the  foetus  or 
child  before  its  natural  time. 

CAUSES. — It  is  difficult  to  tell  the  percentage  of  accidental  cases.  Be- 
sides being  a criminal  offense  and  destroying  the  life  of  the  child  the  pur- 
posely causing  of  abortion  is  very  dangerous  to  the  woman’s,  life  and  health. 
Syphilis,  displacements  of  tfie  womb,  diseases  of  the  womb,  diseases  of  the 
heart  and  kidneys,  sugar  diabetes,  and  fright  and  grief  sometimes  cause  an 
abortion.  During  the  first  four  months  diseases  and  displacements  of  the 
womb  cause  many  of  the  cases  v/hile  after  that  time  syphilis  and  Bright’s 
disease  play  a very  important  part. 

TREATMENT.— 

Threatened  miscarriage  or  abortion  calls  for  the  services  of  a doctor. 
The  woman  should  immediately  take  to  her  bed  at  the  first  sign  of  flowing 
or  pain.  For  the  pain  the  patient  should  be  put  to  bed  and  given  a hypoder- 
mic of  1/4  grain  of  morphine  at  once.  This  should  be  followed  by  1 grain 
rectal  suppositories  of  extract  of  opium  which  should  be  repeated  every 
4 to  6 hours.  The  Indian  women  used  herbs  for  threatened  abortion.  Black 
Haw  was  one  of  the  remedies  and  is  good  for  threatened  miscarriage  and  as 
a preventive  in  cases  of  habitual  miscarriage.  It  should  be  taken  one  or  two 
weeks  previous  to  the  time  of  the  former  miscarriage  and  should  be  con- 
tinued to  the  end  of  pregnancy.  The  dose  of  the  tea  is  half  an  ounce  several 
times  a day  and  the  dose  of  the  tincture  is  a teaspoonful  4 or  5 times  a day. 
This  is  also  very  good  for  after-pains. 

TREATMENT.— 

Preventive  Treatment. — It  is  best  to  prevent  abortion  if  possible. 
Doctor  the  diseases  which  cause  it.  A woman  Avho  has  once  had  this 
misfortune  is  very  likely  to  have  it  again,  and  perhaps  more  liable  to  it 
at  the  same  month  of  pregnancy  that  it  first  occurred.  Special  care  should 
be  taken  to  prevent  this.  The  woman  should  not  be  subjected  to  fright, 
anger  or  grief  and  should  not  lift  heavy  articles  and  should  not  ride  on  the 
cars,  train  or  automobile  or  after  a fractious  horse.  She  should  also  keep 
away  from  the  water.  She  should  lead  a very  quiet  life  for  a month  before 
and  a month  after  the  time  she  first  miscarried.  Miscarriage  is  very^  bad 
in  its  effects  on  the  health  of  a woman.  It  is  likely  to  leave  a long  train  of 
ills  behind  it.  There  may  be  flowing  or  a foul  discharge  for  some  time.  If 
this  is  the  case  it  may  be  that  part  of  the  afterbirth  has  been  left  in  the 


A CHAPTER  FOR  WOMEN  OF  FORTY-FIVE. 


401 


womb  and  there  may  be  inflammation.  Leucorrhea,  due  to  disease  or  a torn 
cervix,  may  be  one  of  the  after  effects  of  abortion. 

A CHAPTER  FOR  WOMEN  OF  FORTY-FIVE. 

The  “ change  of  life  ” or  “ menopause  ” is  the  final  stopping  or  **  cessa« 
tion  ” of  menstruation  and  occurs  between  the  fortieth  and  fiftieth  years. 
There  are  cases  that  occur  earlier  and  some  that  occur  later.  The  flow  may 
gradually  diminish  in  amount  until  it  disappears  entirely  or  it  may  stop  ab- 
ruptly or  there  may  occur  one  or  more  intervals  of  one,  two  or  three  months 
or  more  duration  and  be  followed  by  one  or  more  normal  flows.  Profuse 
bleeding  at  this  time  and  slight  bleeding  occurring  more  often  than  monthly 
are,  unfortunately,  thought  by  most  women  to  be  of  little  account  and  as  a 
part  of  the  normal  phenomena  of  the  change  through  which  they  are  pass- 
ing. The  same  may  be  said  of  the  apparent  reappearance  of  menstruation 
or  of  irregular  bleedings  occurring  after  the  menopause  has  been  established 
and  menstruation  has  been  absent  for  many  months.  Such  appearances  are 
not  normal.  They  should  always  excite  the  alarm  of  the  woman  for  they 
demand  immediate  attention.  As  a rule  the  flooding  is  caused  by  some  dis- 
eased condition  of  the  womb,  as  inflammation,  polypi,  fibroid  tumors,  or 
cancer.  The  mild  lesions  may  disappear  with  the  progressive  dwindling  of 
the  womb  and  the  flow  may  cease.  Many  women  undoubtedly  recover  with- 
out treatment  and  are  thus  confirmed  in  their  belief  that  such  irregular 
bleedings  are  a normal  part  of  the  change  of  life  and  the  unfortunate  women 
with  cancers  are  thus  encouraged  to  delay  seeking  advice  and  treatment 
until  it  is  too  late. 

The  normal  changes  that  occur  in  the  genital  organs  at  the  menopause 
are  wasting  or  atrophic  in  character.  If  the  woman  is  in  good  health  and 
has  no  disease  of  the  womb,  tubes  or  ovaries  the  menopause  may  become 
established  without  any  marked  general  disturbance.  In  many  cases,  how- 
ever, very  annoying  general  symptoms  appear  and  last  for  one  or  two  years 
before  the  woman  becomes  adapted  to  the  altered  conditions.  There  may  be 
headaches,  flashes  of  heat,  nervous  depression,  derangement  of  the  digestive 
apparatus  and  other  functional  disturbances.  The  woman  often  becomes 
very  fat  at  this  period.  The  nervous  derangement  may  be  so  severe  as  to 
result  in  insanity.  The  flashes  consist  of  a feeling  of  heat  over  a part  or  the 
whole  of  the  body,  followed  by  sweating  and  the  sensation  of  cold  or  a slight 
chill.  They  may  occur  frequently  during  the  day  and  sometimes  several 
times  during  an  hour.  They  usually  do  not  occur  as  often  during  the  night. 

The  treatment  of  the  menopause  should  be  directed  toward  the  main- 
tenance of  the  general  health  of  the  body  and  mind.  The  diet  should  be 
carefully  regulated.  Too  much  rich  food  should  be  forbidden.  The  bowels 
should  be  kept  open  and  regular.  The  woman  should  have  plenty  of  fresh 
air  and  the  proper  amount  of  exercise.  The  first  dilution  of  Gelsemium  in 
small  doses  is  good  for  the  nervous  disturbances.  Put  10  drops  in  a glass 
half  full  of  water  and  take  two  teaspoonfuls  every  2 to  4 hours.  The  sixth 
trituration  of  Sepia  is  also  good  at  this  time.  Take  one  tablet  every  3 hours. 
The  above  are  Homeopathic  medicines.  Quieting  and  soothing  medicines 
like  bromide  of  potash  may  be  used  to  produce  rest  and  sleep.  You  can 
use  the  elixir  bromide  of  potash,  taking  from  2 to  4 tablespoonfuls  a day.  Give 
a tonic  like  nux  vomica  in  from  1 to  5-drop  doses  4 times  a day.  Or,  gentian 
compound  may  be  taken  in  teaspoonful  doses  4 times  a day. 

26 


402 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Mental  depression  and  nervousness  demand  a change  of  locality  and 
surroundings.  Above  all  they  demand  cheerful,  pleasant  and  sensible  com- 
pany and  a good,  honest,  practical  physician.  Constant  talk,  advice  and  en- 
couragement do  much  good  at  this  time.  A practical  physician  can  carry 
many  women,  who  would  otherwise  become  insane,  safely  through  this 
period  by  proper  encouragement  and  treatment. 

A woman  at  this  time  should  sleep  well  and  have  a good  healthy  appe- 
tite and  eat  proper  food.  If  necessary  the  bowels  should  be  kept  open  with 
mild  laxatives  such  as  salts,  etc.  Baths  should  be  taken  frequently.  Be  out 
of  doors  as  much  as  possible.  Have  good  cheerful  company.  Many  women 
during  the  “ change  of  life  ” have  very  little  trouble ; others  need  to  be  under 
the  care  of  the  family  doctor.  Go  to  him  when  you  feel  bad  and  he  can 
frequently  aid  you  without  giving  any  medicine.  Others  have  passed  through 
this  time  safely  and  so  will  you  if  you  do  not  worry.  Keep  control  of  your- 
self and  hope  for  the  best  and  that  will  aid  you  wonderfully.  Make  light 
gf  your  worries  at  this  time  and  they  will  decrease.  If  you  have  any  real 
disease  go  to  your  doctor  and  tell  him  plainly  all  about  it.  Remember  that 
you  will  get  better  even  though  slowly. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY 


NURSING  AND  FEEDING. 

Why  Should  a Mother  Nurse  Her  Baby? 

Because  it  is  'the  law  of  nature  and  nature  has  provided  for  it.  The 
mother’s  milk  is  the  only  ideal  health  food.  Babies  that  are  nursed  resist 
disease  better  and  are  healthier  in  every  respect.  Nursing  will  also  be  an 
aid  to  the  mother;  it  will  reduce  the  womb  to  normal  size,  keep  it  so  and 
render  her  less  liable  to  pelvic  congestion  and  diseases  of  the  womb. 

Should  a Nursing  Mother  Drink  Tea  or  Coffee? 

Not  as  a rule;  if  she  does  it  should  be  in  moderation.  Tea  and  coffee 
are  constipating  and  also  very  likely  to  make  the  mother  nervous.  The 
mother  should  remember  that  anything  that  injures  her  will  injure  her  baby. 
Cross,  colicky,  restless,  sleepless  children  generally  have  mothers  whose  di- 
gestion is  poor,  whose  bowels  do  not  act  properly  and  who  are  nervous  and 
restless  themselves. 

Are  there  Any  Diseases  that  Prohibit  the  Mother’s  Nursing? 

Yes;  cancer,  inflammatory  rheumatism,  scarlet  fever,  puerperal  (child- 
bed) fever,  typhoid  fever.  Also  any  disease  which  causes  a serious  infection 
of  the  blood  prohibits  nursing. 

Does  Nursing  Necessarily  Drain  a Mother’s  System? 

Not  if  she  is  reasonably  well  and  her  surroundings  are  favorable. 
Should  a Nursing  Mother  Eat  Fruit  and  Vegetables? 

She  may  eat  freely  of  such  articles  as  do  not  disturb  her  digestion.  Even 
this  rule  has  its  exceptions.  Some  infants  have  very  feeble  digestive  powers 
and  a healthy  mother  must  be  very  careful  with  such  babies.  Mothers  whose 
babies  are  cross  and  colicky  should  avoid  everything  that  is  raw  and  sour  and 
large  quantities  of  cold  drinks.  This  includes  sour  fruits,  raw  or  cooked ; 
also  pickles,  tomatoes  and  cabbage.  Mothers  will  also  find  that  free  indul- 
gence in  animal  foods,  as  meat,  milk  and  eggs,  is  likely  to  make  an  infant 
colicky. 

How  Soon  After  “ Labor  ” Should  the  Baby  be  Put  to  the  Breast? 

It  depends  upon  the  condition  of  the  mother  and  the  child.  If  the 
mother  has  had  a hard  labor  she  should  have  a good  rest,  especially  if  she 
is  exhausted.  She  should  nurse  it  as  soon  as  possible  for  nursing  aids  in 
contracting  and  keeping  the  womb  contracted,  lessens  danger  of  bleeding 
from  the  womb  and  promotes  the  secretion  of  milk.  If  the  baby  sleeps  well 
and  only  awakens  when  the  diaper  is  changed  and  then  falls  asleep  again  it 
is  not  necessary  for  it  to  nurse.  If,  however,  the  baby  cries,  is  uneasy  and 
refuses  to  be  quieted,  we  may,  six  hours  after  delivery,  put  it  to  the  breast. 
If  anything  is  needed  before  six  hours,  give  the  baby  a little  weak,  warm, 
sugar  water. 

What  Secretion  First  Appears  in  the  Breast  and  What  is  Its  Use? 

Colostrum.  It  tends  to  regulate  the  bowels  and  puts  the  stomach  in 
order  for  the  digestion  of  the  mother’s  milk. 

How  Soon  Do  the  Breasts  Secrete  Good  Milk? 

Usually  on  the  third  day  good  milk  fills  the  breasts. 

403 


404 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


If  there  is  then  no  Milk  Secreted  What  Should  be  Done? 

If  the  baby  is  fretful  and  cross  give  it  some  cream ; one  part  cream  and 
five  parts  warm  water. 

If  There  is  Little  or  no  Milk  After  Waiting  a Few  Days  What  Should  Be 

Done? 

If  there  is  some  milk  the  baby  should  nurse  and  if  the  food  agrees  with 
the  baby  supply  the  deficiency  by  artificial  feeding  until  the  mother  has 
enough  milk  and  of  proper  quality.  If  the  child  is  well  nursed  it  will  sleep 
well  and  its  stools,  one  or  two  a day,  will  be  of  light  yellow  color  and  odor- 
less. 

What  Should  You  Feed  if  a Mother  Cannot  Nurse  a New-Born  Babe? 

Four  to  five  teaspoonfuls  of  weak  sugar  water  every  six  to  eight  hours, 
with  a teaspoon ful  of  very  thick  cream;  same  on  third  day  every  one  and 
one-half  to  two  hours  unless  mother  is  then  able  to  nurse. 

Supposing  that  This  Kind  of  Feeding  is  Insufficient,  What  Must  be  Done? 

A “ wet  nurse  ” must  be  procured,  or  baby  must  be  hand  fed. 

Are  there  Reasons  for  the  Baby’s  Being  Unable  to  Nurse,  Even  When  the 

Mother  has  Plenty  of  Milk? 

Yes;  poorly  developed  nipples,  nipples  so  retracted  that  the  baby  can- 
not nurse.  Such  nipples  must  be  “ drawn  upon  ” until  they  stand  out  prop- 
erly. The  treatment  should  -begin  during  the  last  four  months  of  pregnancy. 
Suppose  the  Nipples  are  so  Sore  that  Nursing  is  Very  Painful? 

After  each  nursing  wash  the  nipples  clean  with  alcohol,  one  part  and 
water,  four  parts.  Dry  them  thoroughly,  then  apply  solution  of  tincture 
benzoin  compound  with  camel’s-hair  pencil.  You  need  not  wash  this  off 
before  next  nursing  as  it  will  not  hurt  the  child.  Or,  use  one  teaspoonful 
of  boric  acid  to  a cup  of  warm  water.  Bathe  nipples  very  gently  after  each 
nursing.  After  they  have  been  washed  with  boric  acid  solution  apply  the 
following  ointment. 

Bismuth  Nipple  Ointment. — Subgallate  of  bismuth,  1 dram  (teaspoon- 
ful) ; benzoated  lard,  1 ounce.  Mix  and  apply  to  sore  nipples  after  each  nurs- 
ing. This  is  good  and  not  injurious  to  the  baby.  Also  good  for  baby’s  sore 
mouth.  The  following  is  very  good — glycerine  or  tannin,  1 fluid  ounce ; 
boiled  water,  1%  ounces.  This  is  to  be  painted  on  nipples  after  using  the 
boric  acid  solution  mentioned  above.  Sore  nipples  should  not  be  used  so 
frequently — partly  feed  the  infant.  Do  not  let  the  infant  nurse  too  long. 
How  May  Sore  Nipples  Be  Prevented? 

LTse  nipple  protectors  or  shield,  and  during  the  last  few  months  of 
pregnancy  rub  and  massage  the  skin  thoroughly  over  the  nipples.  When 
they  are  not  in  a wet  condition,  apply  mother’s  own  saliva  or  cow’s  milk  so 
that  the  nipples  are  moist  and  then  massage  and  rub  them  thoroughly. 
What  Can  You  do  for  Nipples  that  Crack  or  Discharge  Pus? 

For  cracked  nipples  use  tincture  benzoin  compound  as  for  sore  nipples, 
or  )^ou  may  use  boric  acid  solution  or  oxide  of  zinc  ointment.  (Should  be 
washed  off  before  nursing.)  You  may  also  use  glass  or  hard  rubber  shield  for 
a few  days  until  the  nipple  gets  well.  This  is  very  good.  If  pus  is  discharged 
from  both  nipples  the  baby  must  be  weaned. 

What  Can  You  do  to  Prevent  a “ Broken  ” Breast? 

Keep  the  breasts  thoroughly  emptied,  with  a breast  pump  if  necessary, 
and  keep  them  well  protected  at  all  times  from  pressure  and  irritation  from 
the  clothing.  If  the  breasts  are  so  full  they  keep  the  clothing  constantly 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


405 


wet,  use  the  breast  pump.  Such  mothers  should  drink  but  little  fluid  and  eat 
mainly  solid  foods,  unless  the  child  is  injured  by  the  solid  foods.  This  will 
be  shown  by  the  condition  of  its  stools — loose  and  of  bad  color  and  odor. 

If  the  Mother  has  not  Enough  Milk  Should  She  Wean  the  Baby  or  Partly 

Nurse  It? 

Partly  nurse  it  and  feed  the  baby.  The  mother’s  milk  assists  the 
stomach  to  digest  the  other  foods,  but  if  the  mother’s  milk  then  produces 
colic,  and  green  mucus  and  slimy  stools  follow  nursing,  the  mother’s  milk 
is  not  of  good  quality  and  the  nursing  must  be  discontinued.  Green  stools, 
when  accompanied  by  mucus  and  slime,  are  usually  indicative  of  the  unsuit- 
able quality  of  food  (milk)  which  causes  colic  and  crossness. 

How  Can  You  Increase  the  Supply  of  Milk? 

By  regular  habits,  proper  food,  and  proper  amount  of  exercise  and  rest. 
Milk,  if  taken,  should  not  be  used  too  freely  for  it  has  a tendency  to  produce 
indigv'stion  and  biliousness  in  the  mother,  and  the  baby  will  then  have  colic 
with  mucous  and  yellowish  green  stools.  W eak  tea  or  thin  gruels,  well  boiled 
(with  only  enough  cream  or  milk  to  make  them  palatable),  are  good  when  it 
is  necessary  to  take  drinks  in  large  quantities.  A gruel  should  be  made  so  as 
to  be  onl}/  a drink,  not  a meal ; for  if  it  is  made  richer  than  a drink  it  may 
cause  indigestion  and  thus  reduce  .the  amount  of  milk  secreted.  Beer  and 
extracts  of  malt  are  also  used  for  this  purpose  but  are  not  equal  to  the 
gruels  in  furnishing  a nourishing  quality  of  milk.  Plenty  of  outdoor  exer- 
cise should  be  taken,  but  refrain  from  overwork,  worry  and  excitement. 
Good  cocoa  is  also  beneficial. 

Should  a Nursing  Mother  Use  Any  Alcoholic  Liquors? 

This  depends  largely  upon  her  previous  habits.  She  should  avoid  spices, 
highly  seasoned  foods  and  everything  which  heats  the  blood  or  tends  to  dis- 
turb the  stomach,  liver,  bowels  and  kidneys.  Her  diet  should  be  plain, 
simple  and  strengthening. 

What  Things  in  the  Habits  or  Diet  of  a Mother  are  Likely  to  Cause  Colic  or 

Indigestion  in  the  Baby? 

Shock,  fright,  fatigue,  worry,  grief,  passion  and  sudden  anger  are  very 
common  causes ; also  the  food  previously  mentioned. 

Is  there  any  Benefit  Derived  from  Chocolate  or  Cocoa? 

Yes.  It  is  a great  milk  maker;  it  increases  the  quantity  and  improves 
the  quality. 

How  Can  You  Tell  When  a Baby  is  Well  Nourished? 

When  the  weight  constantly  increases ; when  the  baby  has  a good  color 
and  sleeps  well  after  each  nursing;  when  awake,  is  not  fretful  and  peevish 
and  when  it  has  one  or  two  yellowish  stools  daily. 

What  Symptoms  Show  that  a Baby  is  Poorly  Nourished? 

Such  a baby  is  cross,  fretful,  peevish,  irritable  and  restless ; has  irregular 
sleep;  sleep  is  broken  up  in  short  naps;  nurses  often  and  long  or  nurses 
breast  a short  time  then  relinquishes  it  and  cries ; has  colic  and  its  stools 
contain  undigested  particles;  its  weight  either  remains  stationary  or  de- 
creases. 

Does  a Healthy  Baby  Ever  Vomit  After  Nursing? 

Yes.  It  is  generally  due  to  overfeeding  or  to  milk  that  is  too  rich.  If 
the  milk  vomited  is  sweet  and  is  not  curdled  and  the  child  remains  well,  the 
vomiting  is  harmless. 


406 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


How  Long  at  a Time  Should  a Mother  Nurse  Her  Baby? 

Usually  from  five  to  fifteen  minutes.  If  a healthy  baby  nurses  longer 
it  is  generally  clue  to  a deficiency  in  the  milk  secretion. 

How  Often  is  it  Necessary  for  the  Baby  to  Nurse  the  First  Few  Days  After 

Birth? 

Four  or  five  times  daily. 

How  Often  Should  The  Baby  Nurse  During  the  Succeeding  Months? 

Every  hour  and  a half  to  two  hours  during  the  first  month  and  twice  at 
night — nine  p.  m.  and  two  a.  m. ; every  two  hours  during  the  second  and 
third  months ; then  the  time  can  be  extended  to  three  and  one-half  hours. 
What  Should  Be  Done  if  Baby  Wants  to  Nurse  Oftener? 

Give  it  distilled  or  boiled  water  as  warm  as  the  milk. 

When  Should  You  Stop  Night  Feeding? 

If  a baby  is  healthy  and  growing  and  sleeps  well,  you  can  begin  at  from 
the  sixth  to  the  ninth  month. 

What  Can  You  Do  for  a Hard,  Inflamed  or  Caked  Breast? 

Relieve  it  with  a breast  pump.  This  may  prevent  caking,  but  if  caking 
does  occur  the  breasts  should  be  rubbed  and  massaged  three  times  daily  for 
five  or  ten  minutes  after  the  hands  have  been  thoroughly  washed  and 
anointed  with  some  sterilized  oil.  The  breast  is  grasped  in  the  palms  of  both 
hands,  one  above  and  one  beneath,  and  the  breast  then  subjected  to  firm 
pressure  with  a worm-like  motion.  A suspensory  bandage  folded  bias  re- 
lieves the  pain.  Take  a soft  towel  or  large  handkerchief,  fold  it  bias,  pass 
it  underneath  the  arm  and  tie  it  behind  the  neck. 

Applications. — (See  Women’s  Department.) 

1.  Cloths  wrung  dry  out  of  hot  water  and  applied  hot  on  the  breast  is  a 
good  treatment  in  some  cases. 

2.  Cloths  saturated  with  a tea  made  from  poke  root  is  a good  remedy. 
Put  this  on  the  sore  breast  continuously. 

3.  A poultice  made  from  poke  root  is  excellent,  or  a poultice  of  fluid 
extract  of  poke  root.  The  fluid  extract  can  be  bought  very  cheaply.  Use 
half  poke  root  and  half  water.  Wring  cloths  out  of  it  and  apply  warm. 

4.  Fluid  extract  of  poke  root  may  be  used  internally.  Put  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  the  fluid  extract  into  a glass  one-half  full  of  water.  Give  two  teaspoon- 
fuls every  one  to  three  hours  regularly.  It  will  not  hurt  the  baby  in  this 
dose. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — 1.  Belladonna,  2nd  dilution.  Put  ten  drops 
into  half  a glass  of  water  and  give  one  to  two  teaspoonfuls  every  one  to  three 
hours.  This  is  very  good  when  the  breast  is  very  red  and  throbs  and  beats. 

2.  Bryonia,  2nd  dilution.  Same  dose  and  given  in  same  way  as  Bella- 
donna. This  is  good,  especially  after  Belladonna,  when  there  is  much  severe 
aching  all  over  and  it  hurts  to  move. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — Keep  the  bowels  open  with  epsom  salts,  1 table- 
spoonful in  half  a glass  of  water  taken  in  the  morning.  Ointment  of  oxide  of 
zinc  is  very  good  for  sore  and  cracked  nipples.  It  must  be  washed  off  before 
nursing. 

Should  You  Give  the  Nipples  any  Attention  if  they  are  not  Sore? 

They  should  be  kept  clean  and  dry.  Immediately  after  nursing,  dry 
the  nipples  with  a soft  cloth  and  rub  olive  oil  over  them.  Continue  for  a 
week  or  two. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


40r 


Should  a Baby  Nurse  from  a Breast  that  is  “ Broken”  or  Contains  Pus? 

No;  for  it  may  contract  a very  dangerous  diarrhea. 

If  a Mother  can  only  Partly  Nurse  the  Baby,  What  Other  Food  May  be  Used? 

Fresh  cow’s  milk  or  some  one  of  the  many  good  baby  foods.  The  method 
of  preparing  cow’s  milk  is  described  later. 

When  Should  You  Begin  to  Wean  the  Baby? 

Weaning  should  be  begun  gradually  when  baby  is  eight  months  old, 
unless  weather  conditions  (summer)  or  circumstances,  such  as  teething,  make 
it  advisable  to  postpone  or  hasten  it. 

Do  You  Advise  Sudden  or  Gradual  Weaning? 

Gradual,  unless  conditions  and  circumstances  demand  sudden  weaning. 
What  Conditions  or  Circumstances  Demand  Sudden  Weaning? 

1.  When  the  mother  is  in  poor  health  and  needs  constant  and  con- 
tinuous medical  treatment  and  this  treatment  seriously  impairs  the  baby’s 
digestion,  then  it  may  be  necessary  to  wean  the  baby  suddenly. 

2.  When  both  breasts  contain  pus  (matter). 

3.  When  the  stools  (contents  discharged  from  the  bowels)  are  always 
green,  foul  and  strong,  and  are  not  changed  by  nursing  in  four  or  five  days. 
What  Diseases  Make  Sudden  Weaning  Necessary? 

Puerperal  fever,  scarlet  fever,  typhoid  fever,  pneumonia,  pyemia,  sep- 
ticemia. 

Should  a Mother  Nurse  Her  Baby  if  Her  “Monthlies”  Return? 

Yes,  unless  the  nursing  disagrees  with  her  baby.  This  is  shown  by  the 
stomach  and  bowels  of  the  child  becoming  disordered. 

Can  You  Give  Crackers,  Bread,  Butter,  Etc.,  to  Weaned  Babies? 

Crackers  very  thoroughly  baked,  almost  charred,  and  stale  bread  may  be 
given  to  weaned  babies  but  bread  should  be  stale  and  with  no  butter,  as 
butter  is  very  likely  to  upset  the  stomach.  None  of  these  should  be  given 
to  babies  under  nine  months  to  a year  old. 

What  Causes  Sore  Mouth  in  the  Nursing  Mother? 

A too  restricted  diet,  lack  of  exercise  and  fresh  air. 

What  Should  be  Done  for  Such  a Condition? 

If  the  baby  is  not  nourished  it  must  be  weaned.  The  mother  should 
drink  freely  of  acid  drinks,  such  as  lemonade,  lime  juice,  etc.,  and  should  eat 
freely  of  vegetables  and  seasonable  fruits.  Baked  apples,  prunes  and  other 
dried  and  preserved  fruits  may  be  eaten  if  fresh  fruit  cannot  be  procured. 
Wash  the  mouth  frequently  with  boric  acid,  10  grains  dissolved  in  1 ounce 
of  water,  or  tincture  of  hydrastis  (golden  seal)  diluted  one-half  with  water. 

Internally — Homeopathic  Treatment — Mercurius  Sol.,  3rd  trituration. 
Give  one  tablet  every  3 hours.  Keep  bowels  open  if  necessary  with  salts. 
What  is  the  Best  Food  for  the  Baby  if  the  Mother  Cannot  Nurse  It? 

Cow’s  milk  modified  to  resemble  human  milk  as  much  as  possible. 

How  Does  Cow’s  Milk  Differ  from  Human  Milk? 

Cow’s  milk  contains  almost  three  times  as  much  curd  and  about  one- 
half  as  much  sugar.  The  curd  is  not  easilv  digested. 

What  Ingredients  Compose  the  Human  Milk? 

Out  of  100  parts  there  are  87V2  parts  of  water  and  12%  parts  of  food. 
The  12%  parts  of  food  are  made  up  of  fat,  4 parts ; sugar,  7 parts  and  proteids 
casein  and  albumin,  1%  parts. 


408 


THE  PEOPLE'S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK, 


What  do  You  Call  the  Fat  and  Proteids  in  Milk? 

The  fat  is  the  cream.  The  proteids  are  the  curd  which  is  very  similar 
to  albumen  (or  white  of  egg).  They  make  muscle. 

What  is  the  Top  Milk? 

The  upper  third  or  half  of  milk  that  has  stood  six  or  eight  hours,  which 
then  contains  three  times  as  much  cream  as  ordinary  milk. 

How  Can  You  Obtain  the  Top  Milk? 

Take  it  off  with  a spoon  or  siphon. 

How  is  it  Usually  Treated  or  Diluted  to  Make  Babies*  Milk? 

Take  1 part  of  top  milk  and  add  2 parts  of  warm  water;  then  add  1 heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  milk  sugar  to  4 ounces  of  this  mixture  or  diluted  food. 
If  cane  sugar  be  used,  one,  teaspoonful  is  enough  for  six  ounces  of  the  mixture. 

Following  is  a very  good  combination : 2 tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar, 
% cup  boiling  water,  1 tablespoonful  lime  water,  1 cup  (I/2  pint)  cream, 
cup  of  milk.  Steam  20  minutes.  This  recipe  comes  from  Dr.  Hinsdale,  of 
the  University  of  Michigan,  and  is  very  good.  Increase  or  decrease  the 
amount  of  sugar,  cream  and  milk  according  to  the  way  they  agree  with  the 
child. 

Should  You  Boil  the  Milk  for  Babies  in  the  Summer? 

No.  It  makes  it  hard  to  digest.  Curd  and  albumin  (white  of  an  egg) 
are  identical.  You  would  not  boil  the  white  of  an  egg  and  give  it  to  the  baby. 
When  is  Milk  Said  to  be  Pasteurized? 

When  it  is  heated  to  a temperature  of  154°  to  170°  (Fahrenheit)  and 
retained  at  that  point  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

How  do  You  Pasteurize  Milk? 

Place  milk  in  a bottle  (fruit  jar  will  do),  cover  the  top  with  absorbent 
cotton  and  set  it  in  a tin  pail  of  cold  water  deep  enough  to  surround  the 
milk.  This  water  should  be  boiled  for  30  minutes.  A plate  or  dish  must  be 
put  underneath  the  bottle  to  prevent  breaking. 

Should  the  Milk  Always  be  Pasteurized? 

Always  in  the  summer.  Better  at  all  times  in  the  cities.  Cream  does 
not  rise  from  pasteurized  milk  so  the  cream  should  be  taken  off  before  the 
milk  is  pasteurized.  The  cream  should  also  be  pasteurized. 

Is  Partially  Boiled  Milk  Harder  to  Digest? 

Very  little  and  this  is  more  than  counter-balanced  by  killing  of  the  germs. 
How  Can  You  Sterilize  Milk? 

By  bringing  it  to  the  boiling  point  (212  degrees  Fahr.)  and  keeping  it 
there  for  20  to  30  minutes. 

Which  is  Preferable,  Pasteurized  or  Sterilized  Milk? 

Pasteurized  is  easier  to  digest  on  account  of  sterilized  milk  being  boiled, 
and  it  is  pleasanter  to  the  taste,  but  it  will  not  keep  as  long  as  sterilized  milk. 
It  keeps  for  only  one  or  two  days.  Sterilized  milk  keeps  longer. 

What  is  a Simple  Way  of  Sterilizing  Milk? 

Same  way  as  the  one  described  for  pasteurizing;  keep  up  the  process 
only  long  enough  to  make  the  milk  boil,  which  is  shown  by  the  bubbles 
coming  to  the  surface. 

When  and  Why  Should  Lime  Water  be  Used  in  Milk? 

The  use  of  lime  water  neutralizes  the  excessive  acidity  (overcomes  the 
sourness)  of  the  milk  both  before  and  after  it  is  taken  into  the  stomach.  If 
the  baby’s  stomach  is  sour,  lime  water  corrects  this.  Add  one  to  three  tea- 


409 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 

spoonfuls  of  lime  water  to  each  feeding.  Usually,  give  1 ounce  or  part  of 
lime  water  to  twenty  ounces  or  parts  of  food. 

How  Do  You  Make  Lime  Water? 

By  mixing  building  lime  and  boiled  water  together.  It  does  not  matter 
about  the  amount  of  lime  for  only  so  much  will  dissolve  in  the  water  and  it 
cannot  become  too  strong.  Water  can  be  poured  off  after  standing  three  or 
four  days  and  more  water  added  to  the  lime.  Lime  water  is  very  cheap 
and  it  can  be  procured  fresh  at  any  drug  store  as  needed.  The  following 
is  another  way  to  prepare  lime  water. 

Take  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  slaked  lime  and  one  quart  of  boiled  or 
distilled  water ; place  in  a corked  bottle  and  shake  thoroughly  two  or  three 
times  during  the  first  hour.  Allow  the  lime  to  settle  and  after  24  hours  the 
upper,  clear  fluid  may  be  carefully  poured  or  siphoned  off  for  use. 

Is  there  Anything  We  can  Use  in  Place  of  Lime  Water  for  the  Same  Trouble? 

Yes;  common  baking  soda.  Two  to  four  grains  of  this  may  be  added 
to  each  bottle  of  food  or  20  grains  to  20  ounces  of  food.  Twenty  grains  is 
equal  to  % of  a small  teaspoonful. 

When  is'  the  Soda  and  Lime  to  be  Added  to  the  Milk? 

Soda  may  be  added  at  any  time  to  the  milk.  Lime  water  must  only  be 
added  after  the  milk  has  been  heated. 

Peptonized  Milk — What  is  It? 

Milk  which  has  been  partially  or  completely  digested,  so  far  as  the 
casein  is  concerned,  by  the  addition  of  a digestive  ferment.  You  can  buy, 
these  digestive  tablets  at  the  drug  store.  Dr.  Douglas  of  Detroit  gives  the 
following  good  formula : 


Pancreatin  1 drachm. 

Salicylate  of  soda 5 grains. 

Bicarbonate  of  soda 80  grains. 

Simple  syrup  4 ounces. 


Ten  to  twelve  drops  of  this  solution  will  peptonize  an  ounce  of  milk  and 
enough  of  it  should  be  put  into  each  bottle  before  warming  the  food  to  pep- 
tonize or  predigest  the  amount  of  milk  which  each  meal  contains.  More  of 
the  mixture  may  be  used  if  this  amount  does  not  predigest  the  milk.  When 
a pancreatin  mixture  as  above  given  smells  very  strong  and  disagreeable  it 
shows  there  is  some  decomposition  in  it  and  some  other  pancreatin  should  be 
used. 

Is  Peptonized  Milk  a Good  Milk  to  Use? 

In  some  cases  of  acute  indigestion  when  the  stomach  is  very  weak  and 
there  is  no  pepsin  secreted. 

Would  You  Advise  the  Use  of  Only  One  Cow’s  Milk? 

Yes;  if  you  are  sure  the  cow  is  healthy;  otherwise,  it  is  better  to  use 
milk  from  the  whole  herd. 

Do  You  Prefer  Milk  from  Either  a Jersey  or  Alderney  Cow? 

The  milk  from  these  cows  is  very  rich  in  cream  but  deficient  in  casein. 
The  Holstein  and  Aryshire  and  common  grade  cows  are  usually  vigorous, 
healthy  and  strong  and  secrete  a milk  better  suited  to  infant  feeding. 
Should  Milk  Be  Diluted  During  Whole  Babyhood? 

Yes,  but  reduce  the  amount  of  water  after  the  fourth  month,  since  the 
food  should  be  made  stronger  after  the  baby  is  three  or  four  months  old. 

How  Should  Cow’s  Milk  Be  Diluted  at  First? 

The  upper  third  or  half  of  milk  that  has  stood  for  six  or  eight  hours  should 


410 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


be  taken  off.  Add  to  this  twice  as  much  boiled  water  and  then  add  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  good  milk  sugar  (Sugar  of  Milk  is  the  same  thing) 
to  every  four  ounces  of  the  above  food ; or,  if  cane  sugar  is  used,  add  one 
teaspoonful  to  every  six  ounces  of  food.  If  this  is  too  rich  you  can  add 
more  water. 

How  Can  I Tell  if  the  Milk  I Buy  is  of  Good  Quality? 

The  specific  gravity  of  milk  is  10:89.  Its  reaction  is  slightly  acid.  To 
determine  the  specific  gravity,  get  a lactometer  from  a druggist,  fill  a 
beaker  so  that  it  will  float  the  lactometer  and  read  the  figures  on  the  scale. 
If  it  is  above  or  below  1029  it  is  watered  or  reinforced  by  some  foreign  ele- 
ment. For  acidity  (sourness),  secure  from  your  druggist,  for  a few  cents, 
some  blue  litmus  paper.  Put  a small  piece  in  the  milk  and  if  there  is  too  much 
acidity  it  will  change  to  red. 

How  Can  I Determine  If  the  Cream  is  of  the  Right  Amount? 

Take  a long  thin  bottle  and  paste  a narrow  strip  of  paper  on  the  out- 
side. Mark  the  paper  into  sixteen  equal  parts  before  you  paste  it  on  the 
bottle.  The  lower  edge  of  the  paper  should  come  just  to  the  bottom  of  the 
bottle,  while  the  milk  should  come  to  the  top  of  the  paper.  Set  the  bottle 
filled  with  milk  aside  for  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours.  The  layer  of  cream 
rises  to  the  top  and  should  be  one-sixteenth  of  the  whole  amount.  If  there 
is  less  than  one-sixteenth  of  cream  the  milk  is  either  very  poor  or  has  been 
skimmed. 

What  is  Condensed  Milk? 

Condensed  Milk  is  milk  from  which  the  greater  part  of  the  water  has  been 
evaporated.  It  is  valuable  when  you  cannot  obtain  pure  cow’s  milk  and  when 
you  have  little  ice  to  keep  cow’s  milk  fresh. 

What  Kind  of  Bottles  Should  be  Used  for  Giving  Artificial  Foods? 

A straight  cylindrical  bottle  holding  eight  ounces,  on  which  are  figures 
dividing  it  into  ounces  and  half  ounces.  You  should  have  two  or  more  bottles 
for  emergencies.  See  that  the  marking  is  correct  so  as  to  be  sure  the  baby 
receives  the  proper  amount  of  food.  All  bottles  should  be  rinsed  immediately 
after  being  used.  Black  rubber  nipples  should  be  procured  as  all  rubber  is 
naturally  of  that  color.  The  nipples  should  be  scrubbed  and  cleaned  thor- 
oughly "and  kept  in  a soda  or  boric  acid  water  till  used  again.  Rinse  them 
thoroughly  before  using  again.  This  care  prevents  much  trouble  in  the  way 
of  sickness. 

Summary  of  Feeding  Rules  for  Children. — 

1.  Avoid  night  feeding  after  the  first  six  months.  It  causes  wakeful 
habits  and  a cross,  irritable  and  unsuccessful  child. 

2.  Hot  weather  always  requires  pasteurized  or  sterilized  foods,  smaller 
meals,  and  lime  Avater  in  or  with  the  food.  A reduced  milk  diet  and  lime 
water  are  essential  in  summer. 

Is  Vomiting  in  Nursing  Infants  a Bad  Sign? 

The  child  that  vomits  much  and  is  healthy  merely  casts  out  the  super- 
abundance of  mother’s  milk  swallowed.  This  is  very  different  from  vomit- 
ing accompanied  with  coldness  of  the  skin  and  cold  sweating  and  sick  stomach. 
What  are  the  Causes  of  Vomiting? 

Unhealthy  food  and  diseases — scarlet  fever  and  meningitis. 

How  Does  Unhealthy  Food  Affect  a Baby  and  What  May  be  Done  For  It? 

Babies  suffering  in  this  way  are  cross,  pale  and  restless,  very  often 
having  green,  slimy  and  foul  stools. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


411 


Treatment. — Regulate  diet  when  that  is  at  fault.  Temporary  relief  may 
be  obtained  by  a dose  of  castor  oil  or  by  giving  the  following  to  move  the 
bowels : 

Laxative  Alkaline  Mixture. — (For  child  one  year  old.) 


Bicarbonate  of  soda 40  grains. 

Aromatic  syrup  of  rhubarb 4 fluid  drams. 

Syrup  of  senna 5 fluid  drams. 

Syrup  of  orange  1 fluid  dram. 


Give  one  teaspoonful  two  or  three  times  a day  as  needed  for  sour 
stomach  with  constipation  or  foul  smelling  stools.  Or,  to  strengthen  stomach 
digestion  give  the  following  digestive  assistant: 


Essence  of  pepsin  1 ounce. 

Essence  of  pancreatin  1 ounce. 


Give  10  to  20  drops  after  each  meal  for  a child  one  year  old.  Increase 
the  dose  gradually  if  necessary. 

Do  Green  Stools  Always  Indicate  Unsuitable  Food? 

No:  Many  infants  have  imperfectly  developed  digestive  glands  when 

born  and  cannot  properly  digest  even  good  human  milk. 

What  Food  Usually  Causes  Green  Stools  in  the  Healthy  Infant? 

Usually  it  is  caused  by  too  much  of  proteids  (curd)  in  the  mother’s  milk 
or  too  much  .skimmed  milk  in  the  diet  of  the  hand-fed  infant. 

What  Foods  Would  You  Give  when  Weaning  is  Demanded  at  Six  or  Seven 

Days  Old? 

A very  light  cream  from  bottled  milk  16  to  24  hours  old,  diluted  with  four 
times  as  much  boiled  water  and  sweetened  with  1 ounce  of  good  milk  sugar 
or  1/2  ounce  of  granulated  sugar  to  every  15  ounces  of  the  mixture.  One 
ounce  of  lime  water  may  be  added  to  every  7 ounces  of  this  and  1 to  2 table- 
spoonfuls of  this  mixture  fed  to  the  infant  every  two  hours  or  when  it  shows 
hunger.  If  the  whole  mixture  is  sterilized  or  pasteurized  it  may  be  fed  with- 
out adding  the  lime  water. 

Can  the  Infant  Continue  to  Thrive  on  this  Strength  of  Food? 

There  must  be  the  proper  increase  of  one  or  more  of  the  constituents 
of  food  (fat,  sugar  and  proteids).  If  there  is  too  much  sugar  it  will  cause 
gas,  colic,  loose  splashy  stools  and  a scalding  redness  in  the  bowel  around  the 
rectum,  extending  all  around  the  hips,  due  to  the  fermentation  of  the  sugar. 
Seven  per  cent,  of  sugar  is  about  all  an  infant  can  stand.  The  usual  strength 
of  milk  sugar  required  for  infants  over  one  month  is  1 ounce  to  every  20 
ounces  of  food  mixture.  Increase  1 to  18  if  necessary;  or,  if  it  causes  irri- 
tation, change  to  cane  or  grape  sugar;  or,  the  milk  sugar  may  be  reduced  to 
1 ounce  to  25  or  30  ounces  of  food.  Granulated  sugar  does  not  ferment  as 
quickly  in  hot  weather  as  milk  sugar  and  about  half  the  amount  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  is  needed.  Milk  sugar,  however,  should  be  preferred  during  the 
first  6 months  if  it  agrees  with  the  baby. 

Fat  should  form  from  1 to  4 per  cent,  of  the  food.  That  is  from  1 ounce 
to  3 or  4 ounces  daily.  The  new  born  infant  may  consume  two  to  four  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cream  (fat)  daily.  The  infant  two  months  old  may  consume 
twenty-five  teaspoonfuls  daily,  thus  leaving  about  eighteen  to  twenty  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cream  to  be  added  to  the  infant’s  diet  any  time  during  the  first 
eight  weeks,  or  an  average  of  2%  teaspoonfuls  added  each  week  during  the 
first  two  months.  It  may  not  be  able  to  digest  more  than  this  amount  any 


412 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


month  afterward.  If  too  much  fat  is  given  the  appetite  of  the  baby  lessens; 
it  vomits  an  hour  or  more  after  meals;  it  cries  and  has  gas  in  the  bowels; 
sleep  is  disturbed;  or,  the  bowels  are  loose  with  foul-smelling,  greasy  or 
rancid  stools. 

How  Much  Can  the  Proteids  (they  are  found  in  skimmed  milk  and  some  also 

in  cream)  Be  Increased? 

Infants  of  one  month  may  consume  % ounce  daily  and  the  large  healthy 
infant  of  10  months  about  25  ounces  daily.  The  24  (we  take  24  for  compari- 
son) ounces  represent  192  teaspoonfuls  (1  ounce  equals  8 teaspoonfuls)  and 
thus  shows  an  increase  of  only  about  4%  teaspoonfuls  weekly  or  % teaspoon- 
ful daily  of  skimmed  milk.  This  amount  is  for  a large  healthy  infant.  If  too 
much  skimmed  milk  (proteids)  is  given  the  infant  becomes  cross  and  colicky, 
sleeps  poorly,  wakens  very  often  and  cries  out  with  pain.  The  stools  become 
green,  show  much  mucus  and  often  curds ; in  some  cases  part  of  the  stools 
will  be  formed,  the  rest  soft  and  splashy.  In  other  cases  stools  will  be  formed 
and  well  digested  but  carry  a few  curds  also. 

What  Does  Skimmed  Milk  Contain? 

Four  and  one-half  per  cent,  of  sugar  and  %%  of  fat  in  addition  to  the 
proteids.  Hence  by  too  great  increase  of  skimmed  milk  you  get  too  much 
sugar  and  fat. 


Rules  For  Artificial  Feeding  Up  to  Twelve  Months. 
(From  Douglas.) 


Age. 

Number  of 
Feedings 

Interval 

between 

Night 

Feedings, 

Quantity 
for  each 

Quality 

for 

Third  to  seventh  day 

in 

24  hours. 
10 

Feedings, 

Hours. 

2 

10  p.  m. 
to  7 a.  m. 

2 

Feeding, 

Ounces. 

1 to  1¥j 

24  hours. 
Ounces. 

10  to  15 

Second  to  third  week 

10 

2 

2 

IV2  to  3 

15  to  30 

Fourth  to  sixth  week. . . . . 

9 

2 

1 

2V2  to  31/2 

22  to  32 

Sixth  week  to  third  month 

8 

2% 

1 

3 to  41/2 

24  to  36 

Third  to  sixth  month 

7 

3 

1 

4 to  5V2 

28  to  38 

Sixth  to  ninth  month 

6 

3 

0 

5V2  to  7 

33  to  42 

Ninth  to  twelfth  month.. 

5 

31/2 

0 

7V2  to  9 

37  to  45 

Feeding  Rules  For  Children  From  12  to  15  Months  Old. 

(This  is  from  Holt’s  “ Infant  Feeding” — pages  10-11-12.) 

First  Meal. — A bottle  containing  10  ounces  of  food  composed  of  milk, 
7 ounces,  and  3 ounces  of  wheat,  oatmeal  or  barley  gruel.  If  milk  is  not  rich 
enough  you  can  use  8 teaspoonfuls  of  cream  and  6 ounces  of  milk.  A pinch  of 
salt  and  half  a teaspoonful  of  granulated  sugar  may  be  added.  This  meal 
should  be  given  about  6 :30  a.  m. 

Second  Meal. — 10  a.  m.  Same  as  the  first. 

Third  Meal. — At  2 p.  m.  Beef  juice  1 to  2 ounces  three  times  a week,  an 
egg  coddled  or  soft  boiled  two  times  a week,  and  a bottle  containing  % the 
amount  given  at  the  first  meal.  A small  piece  of  crisp  toast  may  be  given 
with  the  broth. 

Fourth  and  Fifth  Meals. — Same  as  the  first  and  given  at  6 and  10  p.  m. 

Fruits  at  this  period  are  the  following:  fruit  juices,  of  which  orange  juice 
is  the  best;  next  to  this  the  juice  of  fresh  ripe  peaches,  apricots  or  straw- 
berries. All  these  should  be  strained  carefully  through  muslin  to  make  sure 
that  the  child  gets  none  of  the  pulp  or  seeds,  either  of  which  may  cause  a seri- 
ous disturbance.  Of  the  orange  juice  or  peach  juice,  1 to  4 tablespoonfuls 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


413 


may  be  allowed  at  one  time ; of  the  others,  half  that  quantity.  The  fruit 
juice  is  best  given  one  hour  before  the  second  feeding. 

Feeding  Rules  for  Children  from  15  to  20  months. 

First  Meal. — 10  to  12  ounces  of  plain  cow’s  milk,  warmed,  taken  from  a 

cup. 

Second  Meal. — 2 tablespoonfuls  of  oatmeal,  hominy,  wheaten  grits  or 
some  other  cereal  (of  course  this  means  take  your  choice  of  one  of  these  only) 
thoroughly  cooked  from  3 to  5 hours  and  strained,  with  1 to  2 ounces  of  thin 
cream,  V2  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a little  salt;  plain  milk  6 to  8 ounces. 

Third  Meal. — Boiled  rice  (cooked  3 hours)  usually  with  beef  juice,  stale 
•bread  or  zweibach.  If  the  under  teeth  are  through,  raw  scraped  meat,  such 
as  beefsteak  or  mutton  chop,  at  first  only  one  teaspoonful  at  a time ; prune 
pulp  (not  the  skin),  1 to  2 tablespoonfuls;  plain  milk,  4 to  6 ounces.  Make  up 
what  is  needed  from  the  third  meal  given  for  child  12  to  15  months  old. 

Fourth  Meal. — Farina  and  milk,  10  to  12  ounces  in  all,  alternating  with 
arrowroot  or  granum  and  milk,  or  stale  bread  and  milk. 

Fifth  Meal. — 10  to  12  ounces  of  plain  milk  from  a bottle. 

Fruit  juices  may  be  given  in  larger  quantities  now. 

Feeding  Rules  for  Children  From  20  to  24  Months. 

First  Meal. — Plain  milk,  10  to  12  ounces. 

Second  Meal. — Same  cereals  as  during  the  preceding  four  months,  except 
they  need  no  longer  be  strained,  only  very  thoroughly  cooked.  Plain  milk, 
6 to  8 ounces ; piece  of  stale  bread. 

Third  Meal. — Raw  meat  pulp  (steak,  chop  or  roast  beef),  from  1 tea- 
spoonful to  1 tablespoonful,  well  salted,  and  four  ounces  of  chicken  or  mutton 
broth  ; on  alternate  days  from  2 to  4 ounces  of  beef  juice,  or  a soft  egg  mixed 
with  bread  crumbs  or  with  1 tablespoonful  of  rice  jelly  well  cooked;  stale 
bread  without  butter;  and  fruit.  Only  water  to  drink. 

Fourth  Meal. — Farina,  granum  or  barley  and  milk,  10  to  12  ounces  in  all. 

Fifth  Meal. — 10  to  12  ounces  of  plain  milk. 

What  Fruits  During  This  Period? 

Only  fruit  juices  if  digestion  is  feeble.  Strong  children  may  have  in  addi- 
tion prune  pulp,  baked  apple  and  apple  sauce.  Prune  pulp  is  prepared  by 
stewing  the  dried  prunes  without  sugar  until  they  are  very  soft  and  removing 
all  the  skin  by  putting  the  fruit  through  a strainer.  One  to  two  tablespoon- 
fuls may  be  given  at  a time;*  baked  apple,  plain;  a little  sugar  with  apple 
sauce. 

Feeding  Rules  for  the  Third  Year. 

How  Many  Meals  During  the  Third  Year? 

Four;  all  night  meals  omitted. 

Proper  Diet  for  an  Average  Child  During  Third  Year? 

Juice,  of  an  orange  % hour  before  breakfast. 

First  Meal. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  a well  cooked  cereal  with  cream,  a 
little  sugar  and  salt;  stale  dried  bread  and  butter;  glass  of  warm  milk;  soft 
egg  three  times  a week. 

Second  Meal. — Glass  of  warm  milk  or  a cup  of  chicken  or  mutton  broth 
with  a slice  of  stale  or  dried  bread;  a piece  of  unsweetened  zweibach  or  a 
Huntley  Palmer  breakfast  biscuit. 


4U 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Third  Meal. — Broth  (when  not  given  at  second  meal)  ; meat,  steak,  chop, 
roast  beef,  roast  lamb,  or  white  meat  of  chicken,  scraped  or  very  finely  cut; 
potatoes  (baked  or  mashed)  or  rice,  or  macaroni  stewed  very  soft  with  milk; 
asparagus,  or  fresh  peas,  or  string  beans,  or  spinach,  or  stewed  celery,  all 
thoroughly  cooked  and  mashed;  bread  and  butter;  junket  or  plain  custard 
twice  a week;  on  other  days  prunes,  baked  apple  or  apple  sauce. 

Fourth  Meal. — Ten  to  fourteen  ounces  of  warm  milk,  with  bread,  farina, 
arrowroot,  barley,  corn  starch  or  granum  and  milk,  or  milk  toast.  Hours — 
6 :30— 10— 2 and  6. 

Feeding  Rules  for  the  Third  to  the  Seventh  Year. 

ARTICLES  OF  FOOD.— 

Milk. — This  should  be  the  basis  of  the  diet;  most  children  require  about 
one  quart  a day.  This  usually  needs  no  modification  but  if  the  curd  is  some- 
what difficult  of  digestion,  as  shown  by  changed  character  of  stools  and  colic, 
it  may  be  prepared  by  adding  to  6 ounces  of  milk  1 ounce  of  cream  and  3 
ounces  of  water.  The  milk  to  be  given  warm. 

Cream. — This  is  of  great  value,  especially  when  there  is  a tendency  to 
constipation.  From  2 to  4 ounces  may  be  given  daily,  but  it  is  essential  that 
it  be  given  fresh.  It  may  be  used  upon  cereals,  upon  potatoes,  in  broths,  and 
mixed  with  milk.  In  many  cases  it  is  better  to  stop  feeding  milk  and  give  only 
cream. 

Cream  should  be  omitted  if  its  use  is  followed  by  coating  of  the  tongue, 
foul  breath,  looseness  of  the  bowels  and  other  signs  of  indigestion. 

Eggs. — They  should  be  fresh,  soft  boiled,  poached  or  coddled,  but  never 
fried.  Some  children  tire  readily  of  eggs  even  though  the  manner  of  cooking 
is  varied.  Others  will  take  an  egg  twice  a day  for  an  indefinite  period  with 
relish  and  benefit. 

Meats. — Some  form  of  meat  which  has  been  properly  cooked  should  be 
given  once  a day.  The  best  forms  are  beefsteak,  mutton  chop,  and  roast  beef 
or  lamb ; next  to  these  the  white  meat  of  chicken  or  fresh  fish,  which  should 
be  boiled  or  broiled ; fish  may  be  used  once  a week  instead  of  meat ; beef  and 
mutton  should  be  given  rare.  Do  not  give  meat  and  eggs  at  the  same  meal. 

Vegetables. — Potatoes  may  be  given  once  a day,  preferably  baked,  with 
the  addition  of  cream  or  beef  juice,  rather  than  butter.  Of  green  vegetables, 
the  best  are  asparagus  tops,  spinach,  stewed  celery,  small  carrots,  string 
beans,  fresh  peas  and  squash ; young  beets  may  be  used,  if  thoroughly  cooked. 
One  of  these  vegetables  may  be  given  daily,  always  well  cooked  and  mashed. 

Cereals. — Nearly  all  of  these  may  be  used  : oatmeal,  wheaten  grits,  hominy, 
farina  and  arrowroot.  Thorough  cooking  is  necessary. 

If  grains  are  used  the  cereals  must  be  cooked  at  least  three  hours,  after 
having  been  previously  soaked  for  several  hours.  If  the  prepared  oats  or 
wheat  are  used  they  should  be  cooked  at  least  1V2  hours ; the  prepared  flours 
at  least  20  minutes.  They  should  always  be  well  salted  and  given  with  milk 
or  cream,  but  with  little  or  no  sugar. 

Broths  and  Soups. — The  meat  soups  or  broths  are  preferable  to  the  vege- 
table broths.  Nearly  all  varieties  may  be  given.  Plain  broths  are  very  nutri- 
tious and  when  thickened  with  arrowroot  or  corn  starch  with  cream  or  milk 
added  they  are  very  palatable,  and  at  the  same  time  are  a valuable  addition 
to  the  diet.  Beef  juice  may  be  used  as  directed  for  the  second  year. 

Bread  and  Crackers. — In  some  forms  these  may  be  given  with  nearly 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


415 


every  meal,  with  very  little  butter  until  the  third  year.  Cream  is  usually  a 
better  form  of  fat.  All  varieties  of  bread  may  be  allowed  when  stale;  also, 
dried  bread,  zweibach,  and  oatmeal,  graham  or  gluten  crackers,  or  Huntley 
Palmer  breakfast  biscuits. 

Desserts. — The  only  ones  that  should  be  allowed  up  to  the  sixth  year 
are  junket,  plain  custard,  rice  pudding  without  raisins  and,  not  oftener  than 
once  a week,  ice  cream.  Of  the  last  three  the  quantity  should  be  very  mod- 
erate. 

Fruits. — They  are  an  important  part  of  a child’s  diet  and  should  be 
given  in  some  form  every  day.  Oranges,  baked  apples  and  stewed  prunes 
are  most  to  be  depended  upon.  Raw  apples  in  most  cases  should  not  be  given. 
Peaches,  pears  and  grapes  (seeds  removed)  may  be  given  when  thoroughly 
ripe  and  fresh  but  only  in  moderate  quantity. 

Special  care  should  be  exercised  in  the  use  of  fruits  in  very  hot  weather 
and  in  cities  where  they  may  not  always  be  fresh. 

Berries  and  cherries  are  best  deferred  until  children  are  five  or  six  years 
old,  and  even  then  should  be  given  sparingly. 

Beware  of  unripe  or  over-ripe  bananas. 

Potatoes. — May  be  used  during  the  second  year,  but  not  during  the  first 
year.  Never  feed  them  to  young  infants  during  the  summer  season  as  they 
cause  indigestion  and  diarrhea.  They  must  be  boiled  or  mashed  and  may  be 
dressed  with  cream,  gravy  (not  much)  or  beef  juice  and  a little  salt. 
FORBIDDEN  ARTICLES.— 

Meats. — Pork,  ham,  sausage,  dried  and  corn  beef,  salt  fish,  liver,  bacon, 
kidney,  meat  dressings,  duck  and  goose  and  also  meat  stews,  are  all  difficult 
to  digest. 

Bread  and  Cakes. — Avoid  hot  bread,  rolls  and  bi,scuits,  griddle  cakes  and 
much  sweet  cakes,  particularly  those  with  fruit  or  frosting. 

Vegetables. — Avoid  potatoes  in  all  forms  during  hot  weather,  and  fried 
or  scalloped  at  all  seasons,  cabbage,  onions,  cucumbers,  tomatoes,  beets,  rad- 
ishes, green  corn,  baked  beans  and  fried  egg  plant. 

Desserts. — Avoid  candies,  dried,  canned  and  preserved  fruits,  nuts,  pies, 
tarts,  pastry,  and  much  ice  cream. 

Drinks. — Do  not  give  wine,  beer,  cider,  tea  or  coffee. 

Fruits. — Avoid  bananas,  stale  fruits  and  those  out  of  season,  all  hard 
kinds,  and  those  that  are  very  sour.  Avoid  grapes  unless  the  seeds  and  skins 
are  removed. 

MAKING  PREPARATION  FOR  THE  BABY. 

Baby’s  Wardrobe. — This  may  be  as  extensive  as  the  mother  wishes  and 
can  afford. 

The  bellv  band  should  be  of  soft,  thin,  white  shaker  flannel,  five  inches 
wide  and  sufficiently  long  to  pass  two  or  three  times  around  the  body.  It  is 
secured  with  strings,  not  with  pins. 

The  binder  is  discarded  usuallv  about  the  seventh  month  when  the  infant 
begins  trving  to  stand.  There  is  much  difference  of  opinion  about  this.  Some 
say  the  flannel  band  can  be  discarded  when  the  baby  is  four  months  of  age, 
others  earlier.  To  prevent  rupture,  a bandage  is  used  to  hold  navel  and 
dressing  in  place  until  healing  and  separation  have  taken  place. 

Clothing. — This  should  consist  of  a chemise  of  wool  next  to  the  skin,  and 
over  this  should  be  a loose  garment,  also  of  wool  or  flannel,  reaching  from  the 


416 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PIOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


shoulders  to  below  the  feet  and  sufficiently  long,  say  25  inches,  to  allow  it  to  be 
folded  upward.  Garments  should  not  be  tight  across  the  chest. 

The  chemise,  which  should  be  of  gauze  weight,  is  worn  both  winter  and 
summer.  Wool  irritates  some  children.  For  these,  place  a fine  linen  chemise 
next  to  the  skin  and  over  this  the  gauze  wool  garment.  No  sleeves  or  opening 
in  front  for  chemise.  Woolen  socks  to  reach  to  the  knees. 

Diapers. — Lot  of  them;  4 dozen  of  birdseye  cotton.  Needs  to  be  just 
twice  its  width  in  length,  say  18  inches  wide  and  one  yard  in  length. 


For  The  First  Half  Year  the  Following  is  Recommended  in  Clothing. 

1.  Diapers  of  birdseye  cotton — a goodly  number. 

2.  An  undershirt,  of  the  softest  flannel,  without  sleeves  and  opening  in 
front,  as  many  as  you  may  need,  say  three. 

3.  A fine  flannel  princess  dress  about  27  inches  long,  opening  in  front, 
and  with  high  neck  and  long  sleeves. 

4.  Muslin  slips  of  similar  style,  many  as  you  need,  say  six. 

5.  Woolen  socks  to  reach  to  the  knees. 

Or  the  Following: 

Six  dresses. 

Six  slips ; a little  more  simple  than  the  dresses,  to  be  worn  altogether  the 
first  month  or  six  weeks. 

vSix  white  petticoats  (Butterick  pattern  the  best). 

Four  flannel  shirts. 

Four  day  skirts. 

Six  muslin  night  dresses. 

Four  flannel  wrappers  for  night  wear  in  cool  or  cold  weather. 

Four  or  six  pinning  blankets. 

Four  dozen  diapers. 

A flannel  apron  for  baby’s  bath,  to  be  worn  by  the  nurse  or  whoever  bathes 
the  baby. 

Four  soft  flannel  bands,  unhemmed,  5 by  25  inches,  and  socks.  Some 
mothers  prefer  the  little  crocheted  bootees. 

BATHING. 

At  What  Age  May  a Child  be  Given  a Full  Tub  Bath? 

Usually  when  two  weeks  old.  It  should  not  be  given  before  the  cord 
comes  off. 

How  and  When  Should  the  Bath  be  Given? 

It  is  generally  considered  best  to  give  the  bath  in  the  morning  and  not 
sooner  than  one  hour  after  feeding.  The  room  should  be  warm ; if  possible 
there  should  be  an  open  fire.  The  head  and  face  should  first  be  washed  and 
dried  ; then  the  body  should  be  soaped  and  the  infant  placed  in  the  tub  with 
the  body  well  supported  bv  the  hand  of  the  nurse.  Bath  should  be  given 
quickly,  body  dried  fnot  rubbed)  rapidly  with  a soft  towel. 

At  What  Temperature  Should  the  Bath  be  Given? 

For  the  first  few  weeks  at  100  degrees;  later,  during  early  infancy,  at  98 
degrees;  after  six  months  at  95  degrees.  During  the  second  year  from  85 
to  90  degrees.  (Fahrenheit.) 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


417 


What  Do  You  Regard  as  the  Best  Soap  for  an  Infant? 

There  are  many  good  ones.  Do  not  use  irritating  soaps.  (Ivory  soap 
is  good.) 

Is  It  Necessary  to  Use  a Baby  Powder  After  a Bath,  and  If  So,  What  is  Best? 

Not  necessary.  Remove  all  moisture  and  if  anything  is  needed,  ordinary 
talcum  powder  or  pulverized  or  sifted  oatmeal  will  do. 

Would  You  Continue  the  Daily  Bath  with  a Sick  Baby? 

No ; only  bathe  enough  to  keep  it  clean.  Baths  in  some  kinds  of  sickness 
are  injurious. 

Do  You  Give  any  Special  Attention  to  the  Scalp? 

It  should  be  thoroughly  washed  and  dried.  In  infancy  the  sebaceous  or 
oil  glands  are  very  active  and  the  head  must  be  kept  clean  or  a skin  disease 
will  develop.  (Scald-head,  milk  crust,  etc.)  Dry  the  hair  with  a soft  towel 
and  brush  with  a fine  hair  brush.  Do  not  use  a comb.  No  preparation  of 
any  kind  need  be  used  on  the  head. 

If  there  is  any  Chafing  Must  You  Modify  the  Bath? 

Instead  of  soap,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  borax  may  be  added  to 
the  bath  if  necessary. 

Apply  the  following  if  necessary  : 


Boracic  acid  1 dram  or  1 teaspoonful. 

Glycerine 1 dram  or  1 teaspoonful. 

Balsam  Peru 1 dram  or  1 teaspoonful. 

Vaseline,  white  1 ounce. 


Mix,  make  into  an  ointment  and  apply  to  sore  parts. 

CARE  OF  THE  BABY. 

On  Which  Side  Should  a Baby  Lie? 

On  the  right  side  mostly.  The  liver  is  a very  large  and  heavy  organ  and 
will  press  upon  the  stomach  and  make  the  baby  uncomfortable  if  you  place 
it  on  its  left  side. 

What  are  the  Normal  Respirations  of  an  Infant? 

Immediately  after  birth,  44  per  minute ; first  to  sixth  month,  24  to  36  per 
minute;  second  to  fifth  year,  20  to  32  per  minute;  sixth  to  tenth  year,  20  to 
28  per  minute. 

What  is  the  Normal  Pulse  Rate? 

At  birth,  130  to  135  per  minute. 

First  year  falls  to  110. 

Second  years  falls  to  100. 

Fifth  to  8th  year  falls  to  98. 

At  puberty  (15  years),  72. 

What  is  the  Normal  Temperature  at  Birth? 

99%  to  100  degrees  Fahrenheit. 

Where  Should  Temperature  Be  Taken? 

In  the  rectum,  thermometer  half  buried  for  three  minutes.  If  taken  in 
the  armpit  leave  five  minutes. 

What  is  Included  in  the  “ Period  of  Infancy? 

This  depends  upon  the  authority ; some  say  from  birth  to  the  end  of  the 
first  year ; others  say  until  all  the  first  teeth  come. 

What  is  Included  in  the  “ Period  of  Childhood?  ” 

From  completion  of  first  teething  to  ten,  twelve  or  fifteen  years,  differing 
according  to  authors. 

27 


118 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PIOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


How  Many  Hours  a Day  Should  a Baby  Sleep? 

It  should  sleep  most  of  the  time. 

Do  You  Approve  of  Rocking  or  Walking  With  the  Baby  to  Make  It  Sleep? 

Keep  it  as  quiet  as  possible.  Take  it  in  your  arms  if  it  is  restless  and 
sing  it  to  sleep.  Keep  it  from  excitement.  Do  not  let  anyone  awaken  it  out 
of  a good  natural  sleep  simply  to  see  it.  Causes  a bad  habit.  Remember  the 
line  from  Pope — “Just  as  the  twig  is  bent  the  tree  is  inclined.” 

Suppose  the  Baby  Will  not  Sleep? 

Regular  habits  in  feeding  both  in  mother  and  child  and  good  healthy 
stomach  and  bowels  in  both  will  aid  and  correct  anything  that  is  not  very 
much  wrong. 

Are  there  any  Causes  Other  than  Sickness  that  Will  Make  a Baby  Restless  and 

Sleepless? 

Teething  causes  nervousness  and  it  is  very  likely  to  have  indigestion, 
poor  nutrition  and  brain  excitement,  which  will  cause  sleeplessness.  Hunger, 
due  to  insufficient  and  poor  quality  of  food,  irregularity  in  feeding  or  nursing, 
irregular  habits  and  improper  diet  in  mother  may  cause  sleeplessness.  Re- 
member sleeplessness  is  frequently  due  to  worms. 

Should  Either  Quieting  Medicines  or  Soothing  Syrup  Ever  be  Used? 

When  you  have  done  everything  and  the  baby  does  not  sleep,  some  quiet- 
ing medicine  must  be  given  for  the  child  will  be  more  injured  by  the  crying 
and  loss  of  sleep  than  by  the  quieting  medicine. 

Do  not  use  soothing  syrups  for  so  many  of  them  have  morphine  or  opium 
in  them  and  they  are  dangerous  for  a child.  Paregoric  will  do,  1 to  3 to  5 
drops  for  pain  and  sleeplessness,  given  every  hour,  if  needed,  until  the  child 
is  quiet. 

If  the  child  takes  too  much  of  a quieting  medicine  it  must  be  kept  awake 
and  be  given  strong  coffee  and  an  enema  (injection)  to  move  the  bowels  freely. 

Mothers  must  remember  that  even  a few  drops  of  paregoric  have  caused 
death,  and  paregoric  must  be  handled  carefully. 

Do  not  forget  the  soothing  influence  of  soft  lullabies.  How  many  chil- 
dren have  been  lulled  to  sleep  by  the  old  nursery  rhyme — “ Hush-a-bye- 
Baby!” 

The  best  plan  is  to  begin  at  first  and  give  the  baby  its  meals  at  regular 
hours  and  only  nurse  or  feed  twice  at  night,  say  at  9 and  1 to  2 a.  m.  You 
will  form  a habit  and  the  baby  will  soon  be  satisfied  and  generally  sleep  well. 

When  a child  is  wakeful  and  restless,  lay  it  first  on  its  right  side ; then, 
in  an  hour,  or  whenever  it  appears  uneasy,  turn  it  upon  its  left  side.  Some- 
times lying  on  one  side  too  long  makes  a child  restless  and  a change  of  posi- 
tion rests  it. 

What  are  Some  of  the  General  Signs  of  Sickness  in  a Baby? 

Unusual  paleness  or  a general  flushed  face,  dull  looking  eyes,  no  desire  to 
eat  or  to  play,  listlessness,  disturbed  sleep,  uncommon  wakefulness,  sudden 
starting  or  jumping  while  asleep  with  apparent  fright,  unusual  drowsiness, 
vomiting  accompanied  by  paleness  or  paleness  alternating  with  a flush  of 
redness  more  or  less  deep,  hands  and  feet  hotter,  unusual  and  persistent  cold- 
ness of  the  feet,  unaccustomed  fretfulness,  frequent  or  prolonged  fits  of  cry- 
ing or  a marked  change  in  the  character  of  the  cry,  frequent  or  constant 
wrinkling  of  the  brow,  twitching  of  the  muscles  of  the  face,  rejection  of  food, 
unusual  movements  of  the  head  and  limbs,  crying  or  moaning  whenever  the 
body  is  moved  and  a material  rise  of  temperature  all  indicate  illness  in  the 
baby. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


419 


What  Should  be  Done  if  a Child  Shows  the  First  Symptoms  of  a Serious  Ill- 
ness? 

Put  the  child  to  bed.  If  it  is  an  infant,  the  food  should  be  diluted  one- 
half  the  usual  strength.  If  an  older  child,  only  fluid  food  should  be  given.  If 
the  child  seems  feverish  take  the  temperature.  If  the  bowels  are  constipated 
give  a teaspoonful  of  castor  oil.  Better  exclude  other  children  *from  the  room, 
especially  if  it  has  been  exposed  to  a contagious  disease,  or  if  there  are  con- 
tagious diseases  in  the  neighborhood. 

The  diapers  of  sick  children,  as  well  as  of  healthy  ones,  should  be 
changed  as  soon  as  wet  and  washed  soon.  The  child  must  have  clean  clothes 
or  it  will  become  sore  and  chafed. 

Does  a Baby  Sweat  About  the  Head? 

Not  generally. 

What  Does  Sweating  About  the  Head  Indicate? 

It  indicates  weakness  and  is  one  of  the  first  signs  of  rickets. 

What  Cry  Indicates  Sickness? 

Too  long  or  too  frequent  crying,  a moaning  or  fretful  cry  and  often- 
times a whine  and  feeble,  worrying  cry  indicate  sickness.  Temper  cry  is 
boisterous. 

What  Cry  Indicates  Pain? 

A pain  cry  is  a strong,  sharp,  sudden  cry  and  is  accompanied  by  con- 
traction of  the  features  and  drawing  up  of  the  limbs. 

What  Does  Frequent  Jerking  and  Twitching  of  the  Muscles  Mean? 

Irritation  somewhere  and  is  common  in  indigestion,  diarrhea  and  in 
brain  troubles ; it  also  frequently  indicates  convulsions. 

What  Does  it  Mean  When  it  Hurts  a Child  to  Be  Handled? 

Rheumatism  or  acute  rickets.  With  pleurisy  the  child  cries  when  the 
chest  is  pressed  upon.  It  may  also  mean  inflammation  of  some  organ  in  the 
abdomen  (belly). 

What  Indicates  Chronic  Illness? 

Loss  of  weight  accompanied  by  other  disturbances. 

Sleeping  With  Eyes  Half  Open  Means  What? 

Simple  colic  or  pain  anywhere  causing  unsound  sleep.  It  is  also  a 
common  symptom  in  all  serious  acute  and  chronic  diseases. 

How  Much  Does  the  Stomach  of  a New-Born  Infant  Hold? 

Six  to  seven  teaspoonfuls. 

What  Causes  a Child  to  Cry  When  It  Passes  Urine  (water)? 

Inflammation  of  the  urethra  or  a too  acid  urine.  Animal  foods  form  an 
excess  of  urea  in  the  blood  which  the  kidneys  cannot  eliminate.  Then  uric 
acid  crystals  form,  causing  pain  in  passing  urine.  Meat  diet  should  be  les- 
sened and  farinaceous  (starchy)  foods  substituted,  not  entirely,  but  mostly. 
Fortunately,  such  a condition  rarely  occurs  in  a baby  under  two  years  of  age 
but  is  most  often  found  in  older  children  who  have  been  living  on  some  form 
of  meat  juice  or  beef  tea. 

What  Causes  Bleeding  From  the  Navel? 

Cord  improperly  tied  or  blood  vessels  were  very  large.  Remove  clothing 
and  dressing  and  re-tie  carefully  near  the  body  with  strong  linen  thread. 

How  Can  I Tell  if  the  Baby  is  Tongue-Tied? 

Bridle  beneath  the  tongue  is  too  short,  or  is  attached  so  near  the  tip  of 
the  tongue  as  to  interfere  with  its  motion  in  sucking.  If  baby  can  protrude 


420 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


the  tongue  beyond  the  lips  or  if  it  can  draw  on  the  nipple  enough  to  nurse, 
you  need  have  no  fear  of  a tongue  tie. 

What  Can  be  Done  if  the  Baby  is  Tongue-Tied? 

The  bridle  may  be  nicked  with  a pair  of  blunt  scissors.  There  is  an  artery 
here  so  a doctor  must  do  it. 

“ DONT’S  FOR  THE  BABY. 

Don’t  let  the  baby  have  milk  in  the  bottle  to  suck  all  night.  Its  presence 
in  its  mouth  keeps  the  baby  half  awake  and  it  will  not  rest  well  and  will 
awaken  often. 

Don’t  give  it  an  empty  bottle  to  suck  at  any  time  for  it  will  not  only 
keep  it  wakeful,  but  the  baby  will  suck  air  and  get  wind  colic. 

Don’t  take  the  baby  out  evenings  and  break  up  its  regular  habit.  It  will 
make  the  baby  restless  and  wakeful. 

Don’t  keep  it  up  when  callers  are  present  evenings  and  disarrange  its 
habit  of  going  to  sleep  at  its  regular  time. 

Don’t  give  it  a “ comfort  ” at  night.  Do  not  commence  the  habit  as 
it  may  tend  to  keep  the  baby  from  sleeping  soundly.  If  it  awakens  often  at 
night  give  it  warm  water  instead  of  milk. 

Don’t  rub  or  massage  the  baby  at  night  as  it  will  tend  to  cause  more 
blood  to  circulate  in  the  brain.  Massage  or  rub  the  feet  gently  if  you  wish, 
also  the  spinal  column  gently. 

CHILDREN’S  DISEASES. 


SORE  EYES. 

What  Causes  Sore  Eyes  in  a New-Born  Babe? 

Error  in  management  after  birth.  The  secretions  from  mothers  some- 
times cause  it.  Too  much  light.  Careless  use  of  towels.  Dust.  It  is  called 
**  ophthalmia  neonatorium  ” and  is  very  dangerous  to  the  sight.  Over  70%  of 
all  babies  going  blind  during  the  first  year  become  blind  from  this  disease,  and 
for  this  reason  a doctor  should  be  called  at  once.  It  is  frequently  caused 
by  gonorrhea  in  the  mother. 

What  Should  Be  Done  for  Sore  Eyes? 

Cleanse  the  eyes  with  a soft  piece  of  linen,  hold  the  baby  on  your  lap 
with  head  bent  backward  and  light  toward  the  diseased  eye.  Gently  separate 
the  lids  and  clean  them  with  a solution  of  boric  acid,  % of  an  even  teaspoon- 
ful to  a pint  of  warm  water.  Use  a soft  cloth  or  a little  absorbent  cotton.  If 
there  is  much  inflammation  and  pus,  you  must  get  a doctor.  In  the 
meantime,  wash  the  pus  (matter)  away  with  a solution  of  boric  acid,  10 
grains  to  8 teaspoonfuls  of  water.  If  the  lids  stick  together  a little  vaseline 
from  a tube  should  be  rubbed  upon  them  at  night.  If  the  trouble  is  slight 
this  will  cure  it.  Also  exclude  light  from  the  room — live  in  a dark  room. 

Be  careful  of  the  discharge.  Do  not  get  it  into  your  eyes  or  you  will 
contract  the  disease.  Never  use  the  same  towels  or  cloths  for  yourself. 
Further  Treatment. — 

Aconite — third  dilution.  Put  15  drops  into  % cup  of  water  and  give  two 
teaspoonfuls  every  1 to  3 hours. 

Mercurius  Sol.  3d  trituration — 1 tablet  every  three  hours  when  there  is 
much  matter. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


421 


(Local)  Silver  nitrate,  2 to  5 grains;  water,  1 ounce.  Turn  lids  down 
and  apply  gently  with  a camehs-hair  pencil  after  eyes  are  cleaned. 

To  dilate  pupil,  use  atropine,  1 grain  and  water,  1 ounce.  Drop  a few 
drops  into  eye  to  make  pupil  dilate  so  there  will  be  no  adhesion.  Must  be  care- 
fully used  or  you  will  set  up  atropine  poisoning. 

EARACHE. 

How  May  I Know  When  the  Baby  has  Earache  and  What  Can  be  Done  for  it? 

Very  common  in  babies.  Symptoms — child  cries  suddenly  and  violently 
and  continues  persistently  to  cry  in  loud,  sharp  scream-cries.  Puts  hand  to 
the  affected  member  and  cries  when  the  ear  is  touched.  Turns  the  head  with 
the  sore  ear  down.  When  very  young  it  is  restless,  moans  constantly  and 
refuses  to  be  comforted;  cries  almost  every  moment.  The  inconsolable  infant 
should  be  at  once  suspected  of  having  earache. 

Treatment. — Irrigate  ear  with  a solution  of  boric  acid.  Use  20  grains 
boric  acid  to  1 ounce  of  water.  Twenty  grains  is  % teaspoonful  and  1 ounce 
is  equal  to  8 teaspoonfuls.  Use  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 

Apply  dry  heat.  First  cover  the  ear  with  cotton  then  with  a bandage ; 
bind  on  a small  hot  water  bag  or  a bag  filled  with  hot  salt  or  bran. 

When  the  pain  cannot  be  controlled  by  heat  externally,  give  internally 
from  one-fourth  to  one  drop  of  laudanum  (1  drop  for  a one-year-old  baby)_. 
You  can  put  it  in  water  in  order  to  get  the  right  proportion.  For  instance, 
put  1 drop  into  4 teaspoonfuls  of  water  and  give  one  teaspoonful ; that  makes 
1/4  of  a drop  at  a dose.  I would  not  give  laudanum  more  than  twice  with  an 
interval  of  % hour  after  first  dose.  Laudanum  dropped  on  cotton  and  placed 
in  the  ear  is  good.  The  application  of  steamed  hops  is  also  good.  Paregoric 
may  be  given  every  hour  for  3 or  4 doses,  but  some  children  cannot  take  it  at 
all.  Apply,  if  necessary,  a hot  onion  poultice. 

Earache  often  terminates  in  a discharge  which  generally  stops  after  a 
week  or  two.  If  it  does  not  cease,  pour  into  the  ear  and  empty  out  after  15 
minutes  the  following: 


Sulphate  of  zinc  20  grains. 

Carbolic  acid  10  drops. 

Tincture  iodine dram  teaspoonful). 

Glycerine  2 ounces. 


Mix  thoroughly,  and  fill  ear  each  day  while  child  lies  down  and  after  15 
minutes  let  it  run  out  (always  syringing  out  the  ear  first  with  warm  water). 
Keep  this  lotion  warm.  Thin  it  with  water  if  it  is  too  thick. 

Homeopathic  Remedies. — 

Pulsatilla,  3rd  trituration. — 1 tablet  every  % hour  to  hour  until  better;  for 
pain,  neuralgic  in  character,  intermittent,  no  fever. 

Mercurius,  3d  trituration. — 1 tablet  every  hour  when  suppuration  (pus) 
is  impending  or  has  already  begun. 

Belladonna,  3rd  dilution. — Put  15  drops  into  a glass  % full  of  water  and 
give  two  teaspoonfuls  every  % to  3 hours  for  beating,  throbbing  arteries,  very 
red  face,  fever. 

Aconite,  2nd  dilution. — Prepare  same  way  and  give  same  dose  for  ear- 
ache caused  by  cold. 

Mullein  oil  dropped  into  ear  or  cotton  saturated  and  put  into  ear.  Keep 
bowels  open. 


422 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


HEADACHE. 

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  Headache  and  What  Can  be  Done  for  it? 

A hot,  restless,  wakeful  baby  tells  by  its  wrinkled  brow,  rolling  head, 
avoidance  of  light,  moaning,  and  general  heavy  appearance  that  it  has  head- 
ache. Many  of  these  cases  are  not  recognized  and  the  fever  and  pain  pass  on 
to  brain  trouble. 

Causes. — Fever,  cold,  hot  sun,  indigestion,  constipation,  weakness,  fatigue, 
eye  strain  and  diseases  of  heart  and  kidneys. 

Treatment. — 

Bathe  the  head  gently  and  freely  with  cool  water  and  soon  the  little  one 
is  quiet  and  lets  you  continue  bathing.  Remove  cause.  Begin  general  treat- 
ment by  moving  the  bowels. 

Take  sulphate  of  magnesium  (epsom  salts),  2 ounces  and  cream  of  tartar, 
2 ounces.  Mix,  and  for  a child  one  year  old  give  % teaspoorJul  in  water 
every  three  hours  till  the  bowels  move  freely ; younger  babies  in  proportion. 

COLIC. 

What  Causes  Colic  in  Babies? 

The  baby  is  improperly  fed,  for  colic  is  always  due  to  imperfect  diges- 
tion. In  nursing  babies  it  is  generally  due  to  irregularity  in  the  health  or 
habits  of  the  mother,  or  to  change  in  her  diet.  Too  frequent  nursing  is  often 
the  cause. 

Is  Colic  Ever  Dangerous? 

Yes;  the  crying  may  cause  a rupture. 

How  Does  a Baby  With  the  Colic  Act? 

The  baby  cries  violently  until  it  is  blue  in  the  face,  its  belly  or  abdomen  is 
swollen,  hard,  and  tense.  The  child  doubles  up,  clinches  its  fists  and  then 
straightens  them  out  with  violent  jerks.  These  symptoms  last  a variable 
time,  then  cease,  often  after  a passage  of  wind  from  the  mouth  and  bowels. 
Hov/  Can  Attacks  of  Colic  Be  Prevented? 

Ke-ep  the  feet  and  legs  warm,  in  fact  the  whole  body;  regulate  the  diet 
properly  and  the  habits  of  the  mother.  These  are  the  best  preventives. 

If  Nursing  Gives  Relief,  Should  the  Baby  Nurse  During  an  Attack  of  Colic? 

No;  for  nursing  only  gives  temporary  relief  and  furnishes  more  fuel  for 
the  colic,  since  in  most  cases  it  is  due  to  fermented  food.  Give  the  colicky 
baby  some  hot  water  if  it  is  thirsty. 

What  is  the  Proper  Treatment  for  Colic? 

The  nursing  mother  must  carefully  watch  her  own  diet.  Regular  and 
longer  intervals  for  nursing,  and  less  quantity.  Give  more  water. 

In  bottle  fed  infants  the  proteids  are  at  fault.  Reduce  them,  that  is,  the 
skimmed  milk.  If  necessary,  reduce  the  cream  and  sugar  and  starch.  Colic  is 
usually  accompanied  by  green  or  mucous  stools  when  too  much  proteids  are 
given. 

General  Treatment. — First,  see  that  the  feet  are  warm.  Apply  flannels 
to  the  abdomen  (belly)  or  let  the  baby  lie  upon  its  stomach  across  a hot  water 
bag. 

If  colic  continues  inject  into  the  bowels  % teacupful  of  warm  water  con- 
taining 10  drops  of  turpentine,  and  at  the  same  time  gently  rub  the  belly  so 
as  to  start  the  gas  (wind).  If  gas  is  in  the  stomach,  give  % soda  mint  tablet 
in  1 tablespoonful  of  hot  water. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


423 


If  stomach  is  filled  with  food,  give  1/5  to  1 teaspoonful  of  syrup  of  ipecac 
every  15  minutes  until  the  child  vomits,  or  one  tablespoonful  of  goose  grease 
or  any  drippings  kept  in  the  kitchen  for  cooking,  or  1/2  teaspoonful  of  alum 
in  a wine-glassful  of  water  or  syrup.  Tickle  the  throat  with  a feather  or  finger 
or  spoon  handle.  If  vomiting  does  not  quickly  follow  any  of  these  remedies, 
try  1/2  teaspoonful  of  mustard  in  1/2  glass  of  warm  water;  this  succeeds  often 
when"  all  others  fail  to  cause  vomiting.  Give  two  teaspoonfuls  of  common 
salt  in  a wine-glassful  of  water,  or  a cathartic  to  get  rid  of  irritating  material. 

Here  is  a remedy  from  Dr.  Douglas  of  Detroit,  who  is  a great  specialist 


in  children’s  diseases. — 

Bicarbonate  of  soda  40  grains. 

Aromatic  syrup  of  rhubarb 4 fluid  drams. 

Syrup  of  senna 5 fluid  drams. 

Syrup  of  orange  1 fluid  dram. 


Give  one  teaspoonful  two  or  three  times  a day  as  needed,  for  sour,  gassy 
stomach  with  constipation  or  foul  smelling  stools. 

Home  Remedies. — 

Soda  Mint  Solution. — 

One-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda. 

One-half  teaspoonful  of  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia. 

For  a one  year  old  child  give  one  teaspoonful  spearmint  or  peppermint 
water  in  a cup  of  hot  water,  and  repeat  if  necessary. 

Frequently,  relief  can  quickly  be  obtained  by  giving  some  drink  such  as 
peppermint,  anise  seed  tea,  catnip  tea,  etc.  Gin  and  whiskey  are  also  good; 
mix  them  well  with  soda  mint  solution  above,  if  you  have  it. 

The  above  home  teas  are  very  good.  Make  them  as  you  would  any  tea. 
The  longer  they  are  steeped  the  stronger  they  become. 

Chamomilla,  3rd  trituration ; one  tablet  every  I/2  hour.  Give  this  when 
the  belly  is  terribly  distended  because  of  no  relief  from  gas.  Chamomilla  tea 
is  also  good.  Teas  may  be  used  freely. 

Make  peppermint,  anise  seed  and  catnip  teas  the  same  way  you  make 
the  infusion  from  store  teas.  You  can  buy  these  drugs  cheap  at  drug  stores 
with  directions  on  each  package.  They  are  much  more  harmless  than  store 
tea.  Usually  take  two  ounces  of  the  medicine  to  a pint  of  boiling  water  and 
give  one  to  two  ounces  of  this  solution  every  V2  to  1 to  3 hours,  as  needed. 
This  dose  is  for  an  adult;  give  only  one-twelfth  of  this  amount  to  a baby. 

. TEETHING. 

When  and  in  What  Manner  Does  Teething  Come  in  a Healthy  Infant? 

There  are  20  teeth  in  the  first  set.  The  two  central  lower  incisors  are 
usually  cut'first,  from  the  fifth  to  ninth  month.  The  four  upper  central  teeth 
next,  from  the  eighth  to  twelfth  month.  The  other  two  lower  central  teeth  and 
the  four  front  double  teeth  come  from  the  twelfth  to  the  eighteenth  month. 
Then  follow  the  four  canine  teeth,  the  two  upper  ones  being  known  as  the  eye 
teeth  and  the  two  lower  as  the  stomach  teeth.  They  generally  come  between 
the  twenty-fourth  and  the  thirtieth  months. 

At  one  year  a child  usually  has  six  teeth  ; at  one  and  one-half  years,  usually 
twelve  teeth ; at  two  and  one-half  years,  usually  twenty  teeth. 

Permanent  teeth,  which  number  thirty-two,  usually  appear  in  the  fol- 
lowing order  and  time : first  molars  at  6 years ; incis'ors,  7 to  8 years ; bicus- 


424 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


pids,  9 to  11  years;  canines,  11  to  14  years;  second  molars,  12  to  15  years; 
third  molars  (wisdom  teeth)  18  to  25  years. 

Does  Teething  Necessarily  Cause  Convulsions  and  Other  Sickness  in  Babies? 

Not  necessarily.  A healthy  baby,  unless  it  has  a peculiar  constitution 
seldom  has  convulsions  from  this  cause  alone.  A nervous,  irritable  baby  that 
is  poorly  nourished  and  whose  system  is  already  deranged  by  previous  ill 
health  is  very  likely  to  have  trouble  when  teething. 

Children  very  robust  and  apparently  healthy  sometimes  have  convulsions 
when  teething.  When  they  do  it  is  often  due  to  the  fact  that  the  gums  are 
sore,  hard  and  tough,  which  holds  them  down  so  hard  on  the  tooth  that  the 
nerve  is  irritated  and  convulsions  follow. 

Do  Convulsions  During  Teething  Call  for  Lancing? 

Such  a condition  calls  for  proper  lancing,  especially  when  accompanied 
by  the  child’s  being  fretful,  restless,  or  sleepless.  The  child  may  start  and 
jump  when  sleeping.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  lance  several  times. 
Lancing  is  not  very  painful  and  the  relief  is  soon  seen  by  the  change  in  the 
child. 

What  are  the  Early  Signs  of  Teething? 

.Several  weeks  before,  there  is  usually  an  increased  flow  of  saliva  (drool- 
ing). The  child  chews  upon  everything  it  can  get  its  hands  on. 

Do  You  Approve  of  Giving  the  Baby  Anything  to  Bite  Upon? 

A soft  rubber  ring  may  be  used;  not  the  nipple,  for  the  baby  will  then 
get  the  colic  from  sucking  wind.  Nothing  hard  should  be  used. 

What  Causes  the  Mother  to  Dread  the  Second  Summer  During  Teething? 

It  is  then  that  the  first  molars  and  also  the  canines  usually  come.  These 
two  groups  of  teeth  may  cause  trouble  if  the  teething  comes  when  it  is  very 
warm,  damp  and  muggy,  especially  in  improperly  fed  and  poorly  nourished 
children.  Bad  weather  and  improper  feeding  cause  more  convulsions  and 
diarrhea  (looseness  of  the  bowels)  than  teething. 

What  is  the  Cause  of  Early  Decay  in  Infant’s  Teeth? 

This  is  generally  due  to  improper  food  and  a neglect  to  keep  the  mouth 
clean.  Sour  stomach  will  also  cause  it.  Take  a piece  of  absorbent  cotton, 
dip  it  into  boiled  water  and  gently  clean  the  baby’s  mouth  after  it  has  nursed 
from  the  bottle.  The  month  of  a breast  infant  usually  needs  no  attention. 
Usually  before  the  teeth  come  the  mouth  needs  no  attention. 

Keep  the  bottle  and  nipple  thoroughly  clean.  They  should  be  boiled  once 
a day  for  15  to  20  minutes  and  cleaned  thoroughly  after  every  nursing  with 
hot  water,  etc. 

What  are  the  Disorders  Resulting  From  Teething? 

There  is  sometimes  considerable  constitutional  disturbance,  more  or  less 
pain  and  discomfort,  fever,  vomiting,  diarrhea  or  convulsions  resulting  from 
teething. 

Can  You  Aid  Teething  With  Medicine? 

Calcareaphos  (Homeopathic),  3rd  trituration. — 1 tablet  four  times  a day 
and  continued  for  weeks.  In  cases  where  mothers  find  that  their  children  do 
not  teethe  readily,  this,  given  during  the  last  four  months  of  pregnancy,  will 
help. 

Is  it  Well  to  Check  the  Loose  Bowels  Coming  During  Teething? 

Never  directly  with  binding  remedies  for  nature  is  trying  to  carry  off 
poisonous  materials  in  the  bowels.  It  is  generally  best  to  give  a mild  laxative 
to  get  rid  of  the  contents  of  the  bowels  in  severe  cases  and  this  frequently 
stops  the  trouble. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


425 


Is  Change  of  Air  Beneficial  to  Teething  Children? 

Yes,  go  to  a dry  cooler  climate,  but  you  must  dress  the  child  thoroughly 
to  protect  it  from  the  climatic  change.  Loose  bowels  frequently  come  from 
the  child’s  getting  chilled. 

SORE  MOUTH. 

Is  Sore  Mouth,  Stomatitis,  Thrush  or  Canker  Common  in  Children  and  What 
are  the  Causes? 

This  is  very  common,  especially  in  hand  fed  babies.  It  may  be  due  to 
dirty  nipples,  but  is  usually  due  to  improper  feeding  and  too  much  food, 
causing  indigestion. 

How  Soon  Does  Sore  Mouth  Appear? 

Any  time  after  the  first  week. 

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  Sore  Mouth? 

Nursing  is  painful ; the  child  will  drop  the  nipple  and  cry;  drools  and  has 
foul  breath.  The  mouth  is  red  and  on  examination  you  will  find  one  or  more 
sores  inside  of  the  lips  or  cheeks  and  on  the  tongue  or  under  it.  These  may 
be  like  a pin  head  or  as  large  as  a pea  and  are  usually  white  at  first  and  ash 
gray  later.  There  may  be  from  one  to  fifty  of  them  and  they  may  form  ulcers 
with  red  edges,  sometimes  covering  the  entire  inside  of  the  mouth. 

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Sore  Mouth? 

Treatment. — Reduce  the  food  and  drink,  and  have  regular  times  for  giv- 
ing them.  For  foul  mouth  use  stomach  powders. — 

Calomel  1 grain. 

Baking  soda  10  grains. 

Mix,  and  divide  into  10  powders  and  give  one  every  one  to  two  hours 
until  the  bowels  move  and  carry  off  the  fermented  food.  The  stools  must 
return  to  the  healthy,  yellow,  inodorous,  mustard  consistency  before  the 
baby  is  well. 

Local  Treatment. — Sore  Mouth  Powder. — 

Powdered  borax  1 dram  (teaspoonful). 

Powdered  sugar  4 drams  (4  teaspoonfuls). 

Mix;  put  a pinch  on  the  tongue  every  two  to  three  hours.  This  can  be 
used  without  hurting  and  is  very  good. 

This  is  very  good. — Wash  gently  after  every  feeding  with  a solution 
of  borax  and  water ; 1 part  borax  to  4 parts  of  water. 

Borax  1 part,  sage  tea  3 parts,  honey  3 parts.  Make  a salve  and  apply 
gently. 

Or,  Golden  Seal  (fluid  extract  of  hydrastis)  1 part  to  5 parts  of  water. 
Apply  locally  with  absorbent  cotton  wrapped  upon  a wooden  toothpick.  This 
swab  may  be  used  for  all  solutions.  Also,  you  may  use  juice  of  ripe  tomatoes. 
Homeopathic  Remedy. — For  Sore  Mouth. — 

It  is  generally  Mercurius  Sol.,  3rd  trituration — one  tablet  every  1 to  3 
hours,  as  needed.  This  is  very  good. 

DIARRHEA. 

In  moderate  cases  in  a baby  the  milk  should  be  reduced  and  in  hand  fed, 
especially,  the  amount  of  cream.  Feed  less  and  not  so  often.  In  severe  at- 
tacks with  vomiting  and  frequent  foul  stools,  stop  all  food  at  least  12  hours 


426 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


and  all  milk  for  a longer  time  and  move  the  bowels  freely  with  a cathartic,  say 
castor  oil.  Broth  (thin)  and  barley  water  may  be  given.  Rest  is  very  essen- 
tial ; cooling  drinks  may  be  given.  The  following  is  good. 


Subnitrate  of  bismuth 2 drams. 

Chalk  mixture  2 fluid  ounces. 

Paregoric  2 fluid  ounces. 


Mix  and  give  one-half  to  one  teaspoonful  every  two  to  four  hours  as 
needed  for  loose  bowels  in  a child  six  months  to  two  years  old ; give  after 
the  bowels  have  first  been  cleared  with  castor  oil  or  one  of  the  other  prescrip- 
tions given.  You  may  use  injections  (enemas). 

Homeopathic  Treatment  for  Diarrhea. — 

Chamomilla,  2nd  dilution;  Nux  Vomica,  3rd  trituration;  Arsenicum,  3rd 
attenuation;  Mercurius  Sol.  Homeopathic  remedies,  if  given  in  tablet  form, 
should  be  given  every  1 to  2 to  3 hours  and  generally  one  tablet.  If  given  in 
liquid  form,  1 to  2 teaspoonfuls  usually  every  1 to  2 to  3 hours.  If  you  use 
the  2nd  or  3rd  dilution  put  10  to  20  drops  in  % glass  of  water  and  give  as 
directed. 

How  Many  Stools  a Day  Should  a Baby  Have  During  the  First  Month? 

Two  to  three  a day  for  the  first  week  and  then  one  to  two  a day. 

How  Many  Stools  a Day  Should  a Baby  Have  After  the  First  Month? 

One  to  two  or  more,  but  more  depends  upon  the  character  of  the  stools 
than  on  the  number.  They  should  be  light  yellow  and  inodorous  (without 
special  odor).  Meat  juices  cause  dark  brown  stools. 

Does  Diarrhea  in  Children  Always  Indicate  Disease? 

It  is  only  a symptom.  Green,  slimy,  foul,  watery  stools  are  always  dan- 
gerous and  need  attention.  Diarrhea  may  be  a safety  valve  in  the  beginning, 
but  if  it  continues  it  may  cause  serious  trouble  and  needs  attention  lest  serious 
loss  of  strength  occur. 


CHOLERA  INFANTUM. 

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  Cholera  Infantum? 

The  onset  is  sometimes  sudden  and  without  any  premonitory  symptoms 
but  this  is  exceptional  for  there  is  generally  a premonitory  diarrhea  which 
is  so  mild  it  attracts  no  attention.  When,  however,  a weak  baby  has  a per- 
sistent, foul  smelling  diarrhea,  accompanied  by  marked  loss  of  flesh  and  a 
dull  mind,  it  should  cause  anxiety.  If  the  features  become  suddenly  pinched 
and  the  skin  about  the  neck,  face  and  haads  becomes  wrinkled,  the  case  is 
alarming.  Sometimes  it  starts  suddenly  with  thirst,  vomiting  and  loose 
bowels  and  the  child  is  very  ill  from  the  start,  with  increasing  thirst,  vomit- 
ing, diarrhea  and  restlessness.  The  two  main  symptoms  are  vomiting  and 
purging.  Vomiting  is  often  persistent  and  is  first  food,  then  some  mucus  and 
bile.  The  thirst  is  terrible  but  water,  etc.,  when  taken,  are  instantly  thrown 
up  in  severe  cases.  Stools  are  frequent,  watery  and  large,  often  painless  and 
involuntary,  sometimes  looking  like  dirty  water,  sometimes  without  smell, 
while  again  the  odor  is  terrible.  Prostration  is  rapid,  the  fontanelles  (soft 
places  in  the  head)  are  depressed,  the  face  is  pale  and  pinched  and  the  eyes 
are  sunken. 

When  is  Cholera  Infantum  Most  Prevalent? 

During  heated  time,  in  hot  muggy  weather.  It  occurs  often  in  babies 
under  18  months  old  but  more  frequently  in  those  under  one  year  of  age. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


427 


Are  Bottle  Fed  Babies  More  Likely  to  Have  Cholera  Infantum? 

Yes. 

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Cholera  Infantum? 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Veratrum  Alb.,  3rd  trituration,  1 tablet  every 
hour,  dry  on  the  tongue  for  cases  with  much  pain,  violent  thirst,  great  weak- 
ness, cramps  in  extremities,  cold  hands,  feet  and  forehead. 

Arsenic  Alb.,  3rd  trituration.  The  same  dose  for  the  following  symptoms, 
etc., — watery  burning  stools,  unquenchable  burning  thirst,  great  weakness 
and  exhaustion,  emaciation,  thirst  with  great  restlessness  and  vomiting.  It 
will  frequently  control  vomiting. 

Allopathic  Treatment  for  Cholera  Infantum. — 

For  strong  stools. — 


Bismuth  subgallate  1 dram. 

Common  soda  % dram. 


Mix,  divide  into  20  powders  and  give  one  every  1 to  3 hours.  Lessen  the 
food. 

For  frequent,  loose,  slimy  stools  with  pain. — 


Bismuth  subgallate  1 dram. 

Common  soda  % dram. 

Dover’s  powder  10  grains. 


Mix,  and  divide  into  20  powders  and  give  one  every  two  hours  as  needed, 
for  a child  9 to  12  months  old. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — (Hare.) 

Give  1/50  grain  of  podophyllin,  dissolved  in  a few  drops  of  brandy  and 
mixed  with  a little  water,  every  hour  until  three  or  four  doses  have  been  used; 
or,  instead,  use  1/500  grain  of  bichloride  of  mercury.  This  may  be  given  and  I 
think  is  better  than  the  former.  If  there  is  much  vomiting,  drop  medicine  into 
mouth  with  a medicine  dropper,  a few  drops  at  a time.  When  symptoms 
of  collapse  occur,  surround  the  child  with  hot  water  bottles.  Apply  over 
abdomen  (belly)  the  following  spice  poultice. 

One  tablespoonful  each  of  allspice,  cloves,  nutmeg,  and  cinnamon. 
Moisten  it  with  warm  brandy  or  vinegar  and  renew  as  frequently  as  it  be- 
comes hard  or  dry.  This  is  a very  good 'remedy. 

What  Food  and  Care  Must  be  Given  a Baby  with  Cholera  Infantum? 

Discontinue  milk.  Give  raw  meat  juice,  a few  drops  at  a time  to  a baby; 
if  much  prostrated  a drop  or  two  of  brandy  may  be  added.  If  nursing  excites 
vomiting,  stop  for  a time.  To  satisfy  thirst,  wrap  a small  piece  of  ice  in 
a linen  rag  and  let  the  baby  suck  this.  Albumin  water,  given  cold. 

To  prepare  albumin  water,  take  the  white  of  1 egg  in  % Rlass  of  water 
and  stir  slowly  for  five  minutes ; don’t  make  it  frothy ; strain  through  a cheese 
cloth,  sweeten  and  flavor  if  necessary  and  feed  four  teaspoonfuls  every  I/2 
hour.  Enemas,  if  carefully  given. 

CONSTIPATION. 

What  Shall  I Do  for  a Constipated  Baby? 

If  the  mother  is  constipated,  regulate  her  diet  so  as  to  produce  regular 
stools.  If  necessary,  she  must  use  enemas  for  she  must  have  one  good 
passage  daily  or  the  baby  will  be  affected. 

How  Should  Constipation  be  Treated  in  Bottle  Fed  Infants? 

Should  skimmed  milk  (the  proteids)  produce  it,  as  shown  by  curds  or  a 


428 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


very  gassy  condition,  it  calls  for  more  cream,  sometimes  more  milk  sugar  or  or- 
dinary brown  sugar  in  half  the  quantity,  or  some  of  the  prepared  foods.  In  in- 
fants over  9 months  old  orange  juice  may  be  tried.  Sugar  produces  soft  stools 
and  if  used  too  much  the  baby  will  have  sore  bowels  and  buttocks.  Too 
much  cream  produces  vomiting.  Juices  should  be  given  % hour  or  more  be- 
fore morning  feeding.  In  older  children  reduce  amount  of  white  bread,  toast 
and  potatoes.  Give  graham  bread,  green  vegetables,  oatmeal  and  fruit.  Raw 
scraped  apples  are  very  good. 

Is  Castoria  a Good  Remedy  for  Constipation? 

It  may  be  in  some  cases. 

What  Temporary  Treatment  May  be  Tried  for  Constipation? 

Enemas  of  warm  water,  using  from  one  tablespoonful  upward  according 
to  age.  Enemas  of  warm  soapsuds,  using  same  amount.  Enemas  of  warm 
water  and  glycerine,  one  part  of  glycerine  to  three  parts  of  water.  Glycerine 
is  irritating — look  out  for  this. 

These  injections  may  be  given  with  the  soft  rubber  ear  syringe  in  very 
young  babies  and  with  the  soft  rubber  and  hard  nozzle  syringe  in  older  ones, 
or  a hard  rubber  syringe  with  a smooth  nozzle  which  has  a capacity  of  six 
ounces. 

Where  injections  are  not  convenient,  a soap  stick  suppository  may  be 
used  or  a glycerine  suppository  when  soap  one  does  not  act  satisfactorily. 

In  obstinate  cases  not  relieved  by  above  means,  use  % to  1 teaspoonful  of 
sulphate  of  magnesia  dissolved  in  1 to  2 tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water  and 
inject  into  bowel  and  retain  for  an  hour  or  two  to  soften  stool.  Press  upon 
the  anus  at  first  so  as  to  retain  the  liquid. 

In  some  cases,  as  an  enema,  1 to  4 ounces  of  warm  sweet  oil.  A large 
piston  syringe  with  large  nozzle  must  be  used. 

The  best  suppositor}^  for  continual  use  is  the  gluten  suppository  of  the 
Health  Food  Company.  Give  them  the  first  thing  in  the  morning.  They  act 
slowly,  usually  taking  about  two  hours.  In  obstinate  cases  one  may  be  used 
at  bedtime  also.  Great  care  should  always  be  taken  not  to  injure  the  baby. 
Cover  well  all  objects  entering  the  bowels  with  oil  or  vaseline. 

Where  none  of  these  means  succeed,  the  mother  is  driven  to  use  some  laxa- 
tive such  as  castor  oil,  aromatic  cascara,  syrup  of  rhubarb,  syrup  of  senna, 
etc.,  doses  of  which  are  always  given  on  the  bottle.  The  following  is  very 
good : — ■ 


Bicarbonate  of  soda  40  grains. 

Aromatic  syrup  of  rhubarb  4 fluid  drams. 

Syrup  of  senna  5 fluid  drams. 

Syrup  of  orange  1 fluid  dram. 


Give  one  teaspoonful  two  or  three  times  daily,  as  needed.  Give  medicines 
in  the  morning  and  only  enough  to  cause  one  stool.  A teaspoonful  of  olive 
oil  or  a teaspoonful  of  black  molasses  is  also  good. 

COLDS. 

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Cold  in  the  Head? 

Local  Treatment. — Clean  nostrils  carefully  with  warm  water  as  often 
as  they  are  obstructed  and  grease  the  nose,  lips  and  throat  twice  daily 
with  one  of  these : — camphorated  oil,  sweet  oil,  olive  oil,  white  vaseline,  lard  or 
goose  grease.  Put  a very  little  into  the  nostril  with  a cameBs-hair  pencil,  or  soft 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


429 


cloth  on  a small  finger.  Infants  at  breast,  who  cannot  nurse,  can  be  fed  with 
a spoon  for  a time. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — 

Where  there  is  much  fever  and  distress,  give  the  following  remedy. 
Put  five  drops  of  tincture  of  aconite  into  % cup  of  water  and  give  one  tea- 
spoonful every  thirty  minutes  until  the  child  perspires,  then  stop.  This  dose 
is  for  a child  one  year  old ; a smaller  dose  for  one  younger,  say  % teaspoonful. 
This  can  be  given  with  the  following: 


Biniodide  of  mercury  1 grain. 

Milk  sugar  100  grains. 


You  can  get  this  medicine  in  tablet  form,  1/100  of  a grain  to  the  tablet. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  give  a small  pinch  of  the  powder  every  two  to  three  hours 
to  a baby  one  year  old.  If  there  is  no  fever  you  need  not  give  the  first  liquid 
as  this  alone  is  all  that  is  necessary. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Aconite,  3rd  dilution.  Put  15  drops  into  a 
glass  % full  of  water  and  give  two  teaspoonfuls  every  one  to  three  hours. 

Arsenicum  Alb.,  3rd  trituration — when  symptoms  are: — nose  stopped  up, 
difficult  to  breathe,  sneezing,  burning,  watery  discharge.  Give  one  tablet  the 
same  as  Aconite. 

Nux  Vomica  is  given  in  the  same  way  for  the  same  symptoms  as  Arseni- 
cum, with  these  additional — constipation,  indigestion  or  much  gas  in  the 
bowels.  Then  it  should  be  given  instead  of  Arsenicum.  ^ 

SORE  THROAT. 

What  are  the  First  Symptoms  of  Sore  Throat  in  Infants? 

Pain  in  swallowing,  cries  whenever  it  takes  the  breast  or  bottle  and  makes 
a forcible  attempt  to  swallow.  Generally  there  is  fever  and  the  child  looks 
and  acts  sick. 

What  are  the  Remedies  for  Sore  Throat? 

In  young  infants  rub  the  throat  externally  with  camphorated  oil. 
Homeopathic  Treatment. — 

Aconite. — 3rd  dilution.  Put  15  drops  into  a glass  V2  full  of  water  and  give 
two  teaspoonfuls  every  one  to  three  hours.  This  is  good  in  the  beginning. 
When  sweating  appears,  give  Belladonna  instead,  the  same  way  and  prepared 
the  same. 

Mercur.  Biniodide,  3rd  trituration. — 1 tablet  every  two  to  four  hours  when 
there  is  much  saliva  in  the  mouth.  This  follows  well  after  Belladonna.  Apply 
cold  compress  on  neck  and  give  warm  or  cold  drinks  internally. 

Another  treatment  is : 


Biniodide  of  mercury  1 grain. 

Milk  sugar  100  grains. 


(As  above  for  cold  in  head.) 

Mix  thoroughly  and  give  one  dose,  to  a baby  one  year  old,  every  two  to 
three  hours.  If  much  fever  give  the  following: 

Tincture  of  aconite,  5 drops,  in  % cup  of  water  and  give  from  tea- 
spoonful to  a teaspoonful  every  two  hours  to  a baby  from  six  months  to  a 
year  old.  This  may  be  given  alternately  with  the  above  powder. 

If  the  bowels  are  constipated  they  should  be  opened  with  enemas  or 


430 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


some  laxative  before  mentioned,  such  as  castor  oil,  etc.  The  following:  is 
very  good : 

Calomel  1 grain. 

Milk  sugar  10  grains. 

Mix  thoroughly,  and  make  10  powders.  Give  one  powder  every  hour  until 
bowels  move. 

How  can  You  Examine  a Child’s  Throat? 

Place  the  child  on  your  lap  or  table,  half  reclining,  hold  its  hands  and 
head.  Take  a smooth  handled  spoon,  insert  gently  between  teeth ; child  will 
then  cry  and  open  mouth ; push  spoon  to  back  of  tongue  and  press  down 
gently.  Look  for  the  tonsils  (two  lumps  on  the  side)  and  look  in  back  of 
throat.  If  the  tonsils  are  swollen  and  very  red  the  child  may  have  tonsilitis. 
If  they  have  white  spots  on  them  the  child  may  have  diphtheria. 

SPASMODIC  CROUP. 

When  Does  Spasmodic  Croup  Usually  Come  On? 

Usually  at  night. 

Is  Simple  Croup  Dangerous? 

The  ordinary  croup  of  infants  is  spasmodic  croup  and  is  very  rarely  dan- 
gerous, although  the  symptoms  are  very  alarming. 

What  are  the  Prominent  Symptoms  of  Croup? 

In  a mild  attack  there  is  simply  a noisy  breathing,  especially  on  draw- 
ing the  breath,  with  a tight,  barking,  croupy  cough.  In  severe  attacks  the 
child’s  breathing  is  more  noisy  and  becomes  difficult.  There  is  a hollow,  dry, 
barking  cough. 

Treatment  for  Croup. — Warm  atmosphere;  apply  cold  cloths  externally 
to  the  front  of  the  throat  until  feverish  symptoms  subside.  • You  may  also 
use  hot  cloths  or  poultices  on  the  throat.  You  should  have  steam  from  a 
croup  kettle  or  common  tea  kettle.  This  is  made  more  effective  if  the  child 
is  put  into  a tent  made  by  a raised  umbrella  or  four  connected  posts  with 
a sheet  or  thick  covering  thrown  over  them  and  the  steam  introduced  beneath 
this  tent.  This  is  very  good.  A little  lime  in  the  kettle  would  aid  much. 
Homeopathic  Treatment. — 

If  there  is  fever,  alternate  Aconite,  3rd  dilution,  with  either  Hepar  Sul- 
phur, 3rd  trituration  or  Spongia,  3rd  trituration ; give  one  tablet  every  fifteen 
minutes,  dissolved  in  water.  Hepar  is  better  when  the  cough  is  a little  loose 
and  child  is  light  haired.  Spongia,  when  cough  is  very  hoarse,  tight  and 
barking.  You  do  not  need  aconite  unless  there  is  fever. 

Allopathic  Treatment. — 

Syrup  of  Ipecac.  If  symptoms  are  severe,  give  10  drops  every  fifteen 
minutes  until  child  vomits.  To  allay  cough  afterward,  use — 

Syrup  of  Dover’s  powder  1 fluid  dram  (%  teaspoonful). 

Enough  simple  syrup  to  make  2 ounces  (16  teaspoonfuls). 

Mix,  and  give  % teaspoonful  every  two  hours  for  a one-year-old  child. 
Or,  fluid  extract  ipecac,  % to  1 drop  every  15  to  30  minutes,  until  vomiting 
occurs.  Or,  give  V2  to  1 teaspopnful  (according  to  age)  of  powdered  alum 
mixed  with  honey,  syrup,  goose  grease,  or  water.  It  produces  vomiting  and 
sweating  and  loosens  the  cough. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


431 


Another  Croup  Remedy  is — 

Syrup  of  ipecac 3 teaspoonfuls. 

Hive  syrup  4 teaspoonfuls. 

Water  lV2  ounces. 

Dose — V2  teaspoonful  every  % hour  until  the  child  vomits  and  then  repeat 
every  two  to  three  hours,  if  needed. 

You  may  also  put  1 teaspoonful  of  turpentine  in  the  tea  kettle  and  steam 
the  child  as  above  described  for  lime  water. 

Give  enough  onion  syrup  to  make  the  child  vomit.  Onions  fried  half 
done  in  lard  and  applied  to  throat  are  also  excellent. 

MEMBRANOUS  CROUP. 

How  Does  Membranous  Croup  or  Laryngeal  Diphtheria  Develop? 

Very  gradually. 

What  Should  Be  Done?  ' 

The  room  should  be  very  warm.  Hot  cloths  or  poultices  should  be  ap- 
plied over  the  throat  and  either  a croup  kettle  or  tea  kettle  kept  boiling  in 
the  room.  To  make  this  more  effective,  raise  an  open  umbrella  over  the 
child  or  put  it  in  a crib  with  a sheet  raised  on  posts  over  it  and  introduce 
the  steam  beneath  this  tent.  If  the  symptoms  are  urgent,  10  drops  of  syrup 
of  ipecac  should  be  given  every  15  minutes  until  vomiting  occurs  freely. 
What  are  the  Symptoms? 

The  cough  has  a dry,  brassy,  croupy  sound ; it  comes  on  slowly  for 
days,  becoming  gradually  worse.  (Other  croup  is  sudden  and  usually  at 
night.)  Breathing  is  difficult,  becomes  gradually  harder  and  noisier.  Day 
by  day  all  symptoms  increase  and  finally  the  child  chokes  unless  relieved. 
What  is  the  Treatment? 

Generally  considered  identical  with  diphtheria  and  so  general  treatment 
is  the  same.  Antitoxin,  intubation,  tracheotomy;  used  early. 

BIRTHMARKS  AND  MOLES. 

Should  Birthmarks  Be  Removed? 

These  grow  rapidly  the  first  two  years — called  “Nevi.”  Should  always  be 
removed  by  a surgeon  when  infant  is  small. 

What  Can  be  Done  for  Moles? 

Should  be  removed  by  a skilled  physician  or  let  entirely  alone. 

PRICKLY  HEAT. 

What  is  Prickly  Heat? 

This  is  a fine  red  rash  appearing  over  any  or  all  parts  of  the  body.  It 
appears,  too,  in  adults  and  generally  in  very  hot  weather  and  is  due  to  too 
much  heat  and  perspiration  and  shows  mostly  upon  the  neck  and  upper  part 
of  the  body.  There  is  a light  itching  and  tingling  feeling.  Resembles  scarlet 
fever  but  there  is  no  fever  or  sore  throat  and  careful  examination  shows  the 
rash  thickest  under  the  parts  of  the  clothing  where  perspiration  is  profuse. 
What  is  the  Treatment  for  Prickly  Heat? 

Cooler  clothing  is  always  needed. 

Citrate  of  Magnesia. — You  may  give  a large  dose  if  medicine  is  necessary, 
say  one-half  to  one  teaspoonful  for  a child  one  to  two  years  old.  Give  fre- 
quent cool  baths  and  anoint  afterward  with  olive  oil.  For  the  itching,  bathe 
parts  with  saleratus  water,  1 teaspoonful  to  a pint  of  water;  or,  parts  may 


432 


THE>  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


be  dusted  with  starch  powder.  Cocoa  butter  is  excellent.  Rub  the  affected 
parts  well  with  it. 

ECZEMA. 

Is  This  Very  Common? 

Most  common  of  all  skin  diseases  and  also  the  most  obstinate. 

At  What  Age  Does  Eczema  Occur? 

It  occurs  at  any  age.  Some  of  the  worst  cases  are  in  infants  one  to  six 
months  old. 

Where  Does  Eczema  Occur? 

Most  frequently  on  the  head,  face,  hands,  crotch,  groins  and  the  joint 
folds. 

What  are  the  Marked  Characteristics  of  Eczema  ?- 

Obstinacy  in  healing,  tendency  to  return,  moisture  or  weeping  from  the 
diseased  surface. 

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  Eczema? 

Skin  is  bright  and  in  patches  and  is  covered  with  minute  vesicles 
(pimples)  the  size  of  a pin  head.  These  soon  rupture  and  discharge  a sticky 
watery  fluid  which  forms  a crust  of  variable  thickness  with  moist  raw  flesh 
underneath. 

In  other  cases  the  skin  is  dry,  red,  thickened  and  somewhat  scal}^  In 
this  form  (salt  rheum)  the  skin  cracks  readily  and  often  bleeds.  It  may  crack 
in  other  forms  also. 

What  are  the  Causes  of  Eczema? 

Sometimes  hereditary.  Frequently  due  to  improper  food.  General  weak- 
ness, bad  hygiene,  teething  and  any  local  irritations  are  also  causes. 

How  About  the  Itching  of  Eczema? 

This  is  almost  unbearable  and  it  is  difficult  to  keep  the  child  from  scratch- 
ing. Often  prevents  sleep.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  cover  the  hands 
and  fasten  them  down  to  the  side  when  sleeping.  Take  a piece  of  cotton  two 
to  three  inches  wide,  pass  under  the  back  and  fasten  it  to  each  wrist.  Make 
it  long  enough  to  allow  a little  motion,  but  not  sufficient  to  reach  the  neck 
or  face. 

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Eczema? 

In  young  infants  all  cleaning  must  be  done  with  olive  oil  or  disinfecting 
starch  water.  The  irritated  surfaces  must  be  kept  dry  and  excluded  from  the 
air  by  light  cool  dressings  as  heat  always  increases  the  itching.  Under  these 
dressings  an  ointment  must  be  kept  constantly  applied  and  this  ointment 


should  be  covered  with  paraffine  paper. 

Zinc  Ointment. — 

Oxide  of  zinc 2 drams. 

Lanolin  5 drams. 

Albolene  1 dram. 

Salicylic  acid  10  grains. 

Mix  thoroughly,  and  apply  regularly  as  directed  above.  This  is  very  good. 
Beeswax  Ointment. — 

Benzoated  lard  6 ounces. 

Yellow  beeswax  1 ounce. 

Salicylic  acid  20  grains. 


Melt  the  wax  in  a tin  cup  and  then  add  the  lard.  When  all  is  melted 
remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  until  cool,  then  add  the  salicylic  acid  and  stir 
until  cold. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


433 


This  makes  an  excellent  varnish  for  the  face  and  hands  when  chafed  as 
it  is  not  readily  noticed  and  is  also  very  good  for  wet  or  raw  surfaces  on  in- 
fants or  adults,  as  it  does  not  dry  on.  It  is  excellent  for  burns  or  scalds  and 
will  cure  mild  eczema.  Where  the  surfaces  are  moist  and  keep  wetting  the 
dressing,  a powder  should  be  dusted  on  until  this  moisture  stops,  then  the 
zinc  ointment  applied. 

Perspiring  Powder. — 

Tannin  % ounce. 

Oxide  of  zinc  % ounce. 

Rub  into  fine  powder  and  use  as  above  directed.  Where  crusts  form, 
use  sweet  oil  liberally  on  the  crusts  and  it  will  soon  soften  and  remove  them. 
Mothers  must  remember  that  eczema  will  always  continue,  if  not  completely 
excluded  from  air  and  moisture,  also  that  no  soap  or  water  can  be  used.  Use 
oil,  as  above  directed.  Any  of  the  ointments  given  above  are  very  good.  It 
is  well  to  have  enough,  for  ezcema  is  very  slow  to  cure. 

In  general  eczema,  recourse  must  be  had  to  the  mask  to  give  protection 
from  the  intense  itching  and  scratchingi>  Disinfect  the  skin  with  boric  acid 
solution ; boric  acid  % ounce  to  boiled  water  1 pint,  and  apply  the  zinc  oint- 
ment (above)  freely  and  cover  with  pieces  of  gauze,  leaving  openings  for  eyes, 
nose  and  mouth.  Apply  to  all  diseased  surfaces  and  hold  fast  with  thin  cool 
bandages  applied  for  days  without  removal.  When  removed,  all  unhealed 
parts  can  again  be  covered  until  cure  is  effected. 

Allopathic  Medicines. — Keep  bowels  open  with  epsom  salts,  2 oz.  and 
cream  of  tartar,  2 ounces.  Mix  and  give  one-half  to  one  teaspoonful  every 
two  to  four  hours  to  child  one  year  old,  until  bowels  move. 

Homeopathic  Treatment. — Arsenicum,  3x;  Graphites,  6x;  Sulphur,  6x; 
Rhus  Tox.,  3x. 

When  is  Eczema  Most  Likely  to  Return? 

In  the  fall. 

MILK  CRUST. 

What  is  Milk  Crust  and  What  Can  Be  Done  For  It? 

Due  generally  to  neglect  in  removing  the  free  sebaceous  or  oil  secretion 
on  the  scalp,  which,  when  allowed  to  remain,  forms  this  crust.  Keep  thor- 
oughly clean  and  if  it  occurs  use  treatment  described  for  eczema,  both  local 
and  general. 

CHAFING. 

What  are  the  Causes  of  Chafing? 

1.  Want  of  cleanliness  in  changing  and  using  diapers. 

2.  Acrid  diarrhea. 

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Chafing? 

1.  Not  too  much  or  too  strong  soap. 

2.  Careful  rinsing  of  the  body. 

3.  Not  too  vigorous  rubbing. 

4.  Free  use  of  a dusting  powder  in  all  folds  of  the  skin — starch  powder 
or  oatmeal  powder.  If  necessary  use  the  following: 


Boracic  acid  1 dram  (1  teaspoonful). 

Glycerine 1 dram  (1  teaspoonful). 

Balsam  Peru  1 dram  (1  teaspoonful). 

Vaseline  1 ounce. 


Mix,  and  make  an  ointment  and  apply. 
28 


434: 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


The  beeswax  and  lard  ointment  given  for  eczema  is  also  good. 

Too  much  attention  cannot  be  given  to  the  diapers.  They  should  be 
changed  as  soon  as  the  child  passes  urine  (water)  or  has  a passage  from  the 
bowels.  Diapers  should  be  boiled  in  water  to  which  soda  has  been  added 
and  before  being  again  used  should  be  aired  and  dried  thoroughly  by  slow 
heat.  Such  care  in  addition  to  rules  before  mentioned  will  do  away  with 
chafing. 

Another  ointment  for  chafing  and  one  which  will  not  stain  is : 

Boracic  acid  1 teaspoonful. 

Glycerine  1 teaspoonful. 

White  vaseline  1 ounce. 

Mix,  and  make  ointment  and  apply  to  sore  parts.  The  chafed  parts  may 
be  cleaned  with  sweet  oil  and  a little  absorbent  cotton,  and  the  skin  kept  cov- 
ered with  a dusting  powder  composed  of  powdered  starch,  2 parts  and  boric 
acid,  1 part.  You  may  use  this  instead  of  starch  or  oatmeal.  It  is  more  heal- 
ing for  severe  chafing. 

But  absolute  cleanliness  in  taking  care  of  discharges  from  the  bowels  and 
in  changing  diapers  as  soon  as  soiled  by  the  urine  (water)  is  necessary. 

HIVES— NETTLE  RASH— URTICARIA. 

What  Can  be  Done  for  Hives? 

Be  careful  of  the  diet  and  give  castor  oil  or  salts.  Not  frequent  in  infants. 

STOMACH  RASH— TOOTH  RASH. 

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Stomach  Rash  or  Tooth  Rash? 


Baking  soda 40  grains. 

Aromatic  syrup  of  rhubarb 4 fluid  drams. 

Syrup  of  senna 5 fluid  drams. 

Syrup  of  orange 1 fluid  dram. 


Mix,  and  give  one  teaspoonful  two  or  three  times  a day  to  move  the 
bowels. 

CONVULSIONS. 

What  is  the  First  Thing  to  be  Done  in  Case  of  Convulsions? 

Keep  the  child  perfectly  quiet  with  ice  on  the  head,  or  cold  water  cloths  if 
ice  is  not  handy.  Put  the  feet  into  a hot  mustard  bath  and  roll  the  entire  body 
in  large  towels  which  have  been  dipped  in  mustard  water,  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls of  mustard  to  one  quart  of  warm  water.  Have  plenty  of  hot  water 
and  a bath  tub  at  hand  in  case  a hot  bath  is  necessary.  If  the  child  has  some- 
thing in  its  stomach  that  is  injuring  it,  produce  vomiting  by  tickling  inside 
of  throat.  Be  careful  for  it  may  bite  your  fingers.  Put  the  handle  of  a tooth- 
brush, fork  or  knife  in  its  mouth.  Keep  it  there  during  the  spasm,  then  it 
cannot  bite  your  finger  or  its  own  tongue.  If  there  is  anything  in  the  bowels, 
give  an  injection  (large  one). 

When  is  a Hot  Bath  Useful  for  Convulsions? 

If  the  convulsions  have  continued  until  the  pulse  is  weak,  the  face  very- 
pale,  the  nails  and  lips  blue,  and  the  feet  and  hands  cold,  then  the  hot  bath  will 
be  useful  to  bring  the  blood  to  the  surface  and  relieve  the  heart,  lungs  and 
brain. 

How  is  the  Bath  Given  for  Convulsions? 

Water  should  not  be  over  106°  (Fahrenheit).  Apply  test  with  a ther- 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


436 


mometer  if  possible,  otherwise  you  may  burn  or  scald  infants.  If  no  ther- 
mometer is  handy,  plunge  your  naked  arm  into  the  water  up  to  the  elbow.  It 
should  feel  warm  but  not  uncomfortable.  One-half  teacupful  of  powdered 
mustard  added  to  the  bath  is  a good  aid. 

When  is  Another  Convulsion  Likely  to  Occur? 

When  a child  does  not  become  soft  and  natural  after  the  convulsion, 
but  remains  stiff  with  the  thumbs  drawn  into  the  palm  and  does  not  recog- 
nize the  voice  of  its  mother  or  attendant  it  will,  usually,  have  the  convulsion 
repeated  indefinitely  for  hours. 

Internal  Medicine  to  Prevent  Convulsions. — 


Bromide  of  potash % dram. 

Chloral  hydrate  15  grains. 

Simple  syrup  2 ounces. 


Mix,  and  shake  bottle,  then  give  one  teaspoonful  every  hour,  while  the 
child  is  nervous  or  feverish,  to  prevent  convulsions.  This  dose  is  for  a one- 
year-old  child. 

Injection  for  Convulsions. — 

Bromide  of  potash  5 grains. 

Bromide  of  soda  5 grains. 

Chloral  hydrate  5 grains. 

Water  2 fluid  ounces. 

Mix,  and  inject  one  tablespoonful  into  the  bowel  and  repeat  in  two  hours 
if  needed. 

DIPHTHERIA. 

How  Does  Diphtheria  Begin? 

Sometimes  suddenly  but  usually  very  gradually  with  sore  throat  and 
often  swelling  of  the  glands  around  the  throat  and  under  the  jaw;  with  white 
patches  upon  the  tonsils  or  soft  palate  or  a very  free  discharge  from  the  nose, 
which  m.ay  be  bloody.  A very  bad  smell  comes  from  the  mouth.  The  largest 
number  of  cases  occur  from  the  second  to  the  sixth  year.  (See  General  Dis- 
eases for  description  and  treatment.) 


MEASLES. 

What  are  the  First  Symptoms  of  Measles? 

Measles  comes  on  rather  gradually,  from  nine  to  fourteen  to  twenty  days 
after  exposure,  with  a cough,  sneezing,  watery  eyes  and  nose,  much  like  an 
ordinary  cold.  The  eruption  spreads  slowly  over  the  body.  (See  General 
Diseases.) 

Is  Measles  a Serious  Disease? 

In  infants  and  during  the  winter  season  it  is  likely  to  be  very  serious, 
because  pneumonia  (lung  fever)  and  bronchitis  may  accompany  it. 

When  and  How  are  Measles  Contagious? 

In  the  early  stage  from  the  beginning  of  the  catarrhal  (cold)  symptoms, 
two  or  three  days  before  any  eruption' is  present;  less  contagious  after  the 
eruption  fades.  It  is  not  often  carried  by  healthy  persons  and  the  infection 
does  not  cling  long  to  a sick  room. 

What  is  the  Treatment? 

(See  General  Diseases.) 


436 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


SCARLET  FEVER. 

What  are  the  First  Symptoms  of  Scarlet  Fever? 

Generally  it  comes  on  suddenly,  in  from  three  to  five  days  after  expo- 
sure, rarely  later  than  a week,  with  vomiting,  high  fever,  and  sore  throat 
(red,  sore  throat).  The  eruption  usually  appears  within  24  hours  as  a red 
blush  or  pimply  eruption  first  upon  the  chest  and  neck  and  spreads  over 
the  whole  body. 

When  is  Scarlet  Fever  Contagious? 

Slightly  contagious  only  during  the  first  one  or  two  days  of  the  attack. 
Most  contagious  during  the  height  of  the  attack  and  during  scaling.  It  is 
often  carried  to  others  by  healthy  persons  in  clothing  or  bedding  and  by  dogs 
and  cats.  Its  poison  clings  to  the  sick  room,  furniture,  etc.  for  years,  unless 
thorough,  genuine  disinfection  is  carried  out. 

What  is  the  Treatment? 

(See  General  Diseases  for  Treatment.) 

CHICKEN-POX. 

What  are  the  First  Symptoms? 

Usually  appears  gradually  from  fourteen  to  sixteen  days  after  exposure 
as  widely  scattered  pimples  over  the  scalp,  face  and  body,  many  forming 
vesicles  (pimples  with  watery  yellow  fluid  in  them).  Don’t  scratch  them  or 
scars  will  result.  The  child  is  usually  not  very  ill.  Measles  and  chicken-pox 
are  very  contagious. 

(For  Treatment  see  Contagious  and  Infectious  Diseases.) 

WHOOPING  COUGH. 

How  Does  Whooping  Cough  Begin  and  What  are  the  Symptoms? 

Whooping  cough  seems  like  a cold  on  the  chest  for  a week  or  ten  days. 
Cough  becomes  gradualy  harder  and  harder  and  lasts  longer ; gets  to  be 
spasmodic;  the  child  gets  very  red  in  the  face  and  sometimes  vomits  food. 
After  a severe  coughing  fit  it  catches  its  breath  with  a peculiar  noise  known  as 
the  whoop.  It  comes  on  in  from  one  to  two  weeks  after  exposure  and  lasts 
six  weeks  or  longer.  Whooping  cough  can  be  contracted  in  the  open  air. 
What  is  the  Treatment? 

(See  General  Diseases  for  further  description.) 

GERMAN  MEASLES. 

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  German  Measles? 

This  is  a distinct  disease.  It  comes  on  something  like  a cold,  usually 
some  sneezing.  It  is  not  generally  serious ; usually  a very  extensive  eruption 
which  may  cover  the  body.  There  are  but  few  general  symptoms.  (See 
General  Diseases  for  Treatment.) 

RHEUMATISM. 

What  are  Growing  Pains? 

Really  rheumatism. 

Do  Babies  Often  Have  Rheumatism  and  What  Can  be  Done  For  It? 

No ; if  an  infant  cries  whenever  it  is  handled  or  moved  it  is  reasonably 
certain  that  it  has  rheumatism  or  rickets.  Rheumatism  comes  on  suddenly 
with  fever.  (For  further  description  see  General  Diseases.) 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 


437 


RICKETS. 

What  are  the  Causes  of  Rickets? 

Generally  insufficient  and  badly  chosen  food.  Nursing  babies  are.  sel- 
dom troubled  unless  the  mother  is  herself  ill  or  continues  nursing  too  long, 
that  is,  into  the  second  year.  They  may  look  plump  and  fat  but  they  are  we^ 
and  do  not  walk  early.  The  teeth  are  more  or  less  delayed  and  decay  early. 

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  Rickets? 

It  is  always  suspicious  if  the  child  has  no  teeth  at  the  end  of  the  first 
year.  It  is  very  suspicious  if  the  anterior  fontanelle  (soft  spot  on  front  of 
head)  is  as  open  as  it  was  some  months  previously.  It  should  be  closed  in 
a well  nourished  infant  by  the  15th  to  20th  month.  If,  in  addition  to  these 
symptoms,  it  has  sweating  about  the  head  whenever  it  sleeps,  if  it  cries  when- 
ever it  is  handled  and  dislikes  play  and  sports  which  other  children  of  like 
age  delight  in,  it  is  pretty  conclusive  evidence  that  the  child  has  rickets. 
There  is  generally  an  enlargement  of  the  wrists  and  ankles  and  the  head  be- 
comes square  or  box-shaped. 

At  What  Age  is  Rickets  Most  Common? 

Between  six  months  and  two  and  a half  years. 

What  is  the  Treatment? 

The  child  should  have  plenty  of  fresh  air  and  sunshine.  Look  carefully 
after  the  urine  (water)  as  soon  as  it  becomes  smoky,  has  a strong  odor,  is 
irritating  to  the  skin  and  stains  the  clothes.  It  is  due  to  unsuitable  food. 
Reduce  the  amount,  or  change  the  food.  Look  carefully  to  the  stools  and  take 
alarm  as  soon  as  they  become  foul,  bad  colored,  pasty  or  of  variable  con- 
sistency. Select  the  proper  food.  This  is  essential.  When  a child  shows 
any  signs  of  rickets  some  iron  tonic  should  be  given  with  a perfect  diet. 
The  following  is  good : 

Allopathic  Treatment  for  Rickets. — Buy  an  ounce  of  syrup  of  iodide  of 
iron  or  syrup  of  iron  phosphate  and  give  three  to  ten  drops  three  times  a day 
for  a one-year-old  child.  Continue  this  for  one  to  three  months  or  longer. 

Homeopathic  Treatment  for  Rickets. — Calcarea  Phos.,  3rd  trituration — 
one  tablet  three  to  four  times  daily  for  months.  The  idea  is  to  get  proper 
food.  They  generally  recover  but  are  sometimes  left  deformed  if  treatment  is 
not  commenced  soon  enough. 


USES  OF  SOME  SIMPLE  HOME  REMEDIES. 


USES  OF  SALT. 

1.  Neuralgia,  Toothache,  Earache,  Etc. — A bag  of  warm  salt  applied 
to  the  affected  parts  is  very  soothing  in  affections  of  this  kind. 

2.  Hemorrhage,  or  Bleeding  from  Stomach  or  Lungs. — In  case  of 
bleeding  from  either  lungs  or  stomach  eat  two  teaspoonfuls  of  dry  salt  or 
drink  strong  salt  water.  Many  physicians  use  this  treatment  and  it  has 
saved  many  lives  when  a doctor  was  not  at  hand. 

3.  Croup. — Give  a teaspoonful  of  salt  mixed  with  a teaspoonful  of  honey 
or  molasses  if  the  baby  has  croup.  It  is  a safe  and  reliable  remedy. 

4.  Diarrhea  and  Dysentery. — Salt  dissolved  in  vinegar  and  warm  water 
often  checks  diarrhea  and  dysentery. 

5.  Cholera  Morbus. — For  cholera  morbus  use  salt  the  same  as  for 
diarrhea  and  dysentery  above,  except  that  a teaspoonful  of  strong  pepper 
should  be  added. 

6.  Dyspepsia  and  Storhach  Troubles. — Salt  water  often  proves  an  ef- 
fective remedy  for  stomach  troubles.  Take  half  a teaspoonful  in  cold  water 
before  breakfast. 

7.  Colic. — A teaspoonful  of  salt  dissolved  in  half  a cup  of  cold  water  is 
a speedy  remedy  for  colic. 

8.  Tonic,  Purgative,  Internal  Antiseptic  and  External  Stimulant. — Salt 

possesses  all  these  properties. 

9.  For  Bath. — Salt  added  to  the  bath  is  a cleanser  and  it  also  beautifies 
and  strengthens. 

10.  Tooth  Wash. — Salt  will  remove  tartar  from  the  teeth.  Mixed  with 
equal  parts  of  soda  it  makes  a good  tooth  powder. 

11.  Mouth  Wash. — A strong  solution  of  salt  and  water  is  excellent  for 
hardening  sensitive  gums. 

12.  Sprains  and  Swellings. — Sprains  may  be  relieved  and  swellings  re- 
duced by  bathing  freely  with  salt  water. 

13.  Antidote, — Taken  moderately,  salt  is  an  antidote  for  alcoholic  poi- 
soning. 

14.  Hair  Tonic. — Salt  water  is  an  excellent  hair  tonic. 

15.  Worms. — Injections  of  salt  water  are  excellent  for  removing  pin  or 
seat  worms. 

16.  Catarrh, — Salt  water  snuffed  up  the  nose  several  times  daily  is  a 
simple  remedy  but  one  of  the  best  for  catarrh. 

17.  Eye  Wash. — Sore  and  inflamed  eyes  may  be  cured  and  strengthened 
by  frequently  bathing  them  with  salt  water.  Try  it. 

18.  Ague. — In  some  cases  salt  has  been  used  successfully  in  the  treat- 
ment of  ague.  It  is  used  in  half-ounce  doses. 

19.  Hives. — Add  an  ounce  of  salt  to  each  15  gallons  of  water  used  in 
the  bath  and  you  v/ill  obtain  relief  from  the  itching  of  hives. 

20.  Heartburn. — Frequently  allow  a few  grains  of  salt  to  dissolve  in  the 
mouth  and  you  will  obtain  relief  from  heartburn. 

438 


USES  OF  SIMPLE  HOME  REMEDIES.  439 

21.  Sore  Throat. — Frequently  gargle  with  salt  water.  Often  nothing 
else  is  needed. 

USES  OF  LEMONS. 

Each  lemon  yields  from  2 to  8 drams  of  an  acidulous  juice^  containing 
from  7 to  8 per  cent,  citric  acid  besides  phosphoric  and  malic  acids  in  com- 
bination partly  with  potash  and  other  bases.  Should  one  be  surprised  then 
that  the  lemon  is  valuable  in  the  treatment  of  so  many  diseases.  A solu- 
tion of  citric  acid  in  water  (34  grains  to  an  ounce)  corresponds  in  acidity  to 
fresh  lemon  juice  but  is  not  so  good  for  medical  purposes  on  account  of  the 
absence  of  the  other  constituents. 

1.  Sore  Throat  and  Diphtheria. — Lemon  juice  is  an  excellent  gargle  for 
sore  throat  and  is  also  effective  in  the  first  stages  of  diphtheria.  If  desired, 
a little  sulphur  may  be  mixed  with  it. 

2.  Corns. — A piece  of  lemon  bound  on  the  corn  is  an  old  and  well-tried 
remedy. 

3.  For  Removing  Tan  and  Freckles. — Lemon  juice  is  very  effective  in 
the  removal  of  tan  from  the  face  and  hands.  Also  good  for  freckles. 

4.  Colds. — Hot  lemonade  is  a reliable  remedy  for  colds  when  sweating 
is  necessary. 

5.  Coughs  and  Hoarseness. — Lemon  juice  with  sugar  and  flaxseed  tea 
is  excellent  for  coughs  and  hoarseness;  or,  the  lemon  juice  may  be  used  alone. 

6.  Scurvy. — Nothing  is  better  as  a preventive  or  cure  of  scurvy  than 
lemon  juice. 

7.  Fevers. — Lemonade  is  a refreshing  and  useful  drink  for  fever  patients. 

8.  Rheumatism  and  Gout. — Give  one  or  two  ounces  of  lemon  juice  in 
water  three  or  four  times  a day. 

9.  Jaundice. — Give  a tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  four  or  five  times  a 

day. 

10.  Biliousness. — Three  or  four  times  a day  give  one  or  two  ounces  of 
lemon  juice  in  either  cold  or  hot  water. 

11.  Hemorrhage. — Taken  internally  lemon  juice  tends  to  stop  bleeding 
from  the  stomach. 

12.  Vomiting. — Lemon  juice  or  lemonade  will  often  quiet  the  stomach 
and  stop  vomiting. 

13.  Erysipelas. — Lemon  juice  is  sometimes  used  for  erysipelas  and  espe- 
cially in  combination  with  other  remedies. 

14.  Asthma. — Add  a tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  to  any  of  the  mineral 
waters  and  take  three  times  a day.  This  frequently  produces  good  results. 

15.  Antidote. — Vegetable  acids  are  antidotes  for  poisoning  by  alkalies 
and  lemon  juice  is  a vegetable  acid  that  is  usually  at  hand. 

16.  Syphilis. — In  connection  with  the  regular  treatment  lemon  juice 
may  often  be  used  to  advantage  in  the  treatment  of  this  disease. 

17.  Headache. — Very  frequently  lemon  juice  will  be  found  beneficial  as 
a remedy  for  headache. 

USES  OF  KEROSENE  OIL. 

1.  Rheumatism. — Kerosene  applied  with  thorough  rubbing  frequently 
does  a world  of  good  in  cases  of  rheumatism.  Petroleum  was  a favorite 
remedy  of  the  Indians  for  this  painful  ailment. 


440 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


2.  Croup. — For  croup  kerosene  may  be  taken  internally  and  also  applied 
to  the  throat. 

3.  Toothache. — Frequently  relief  is  obtained  from  toothache  by  wetting 
a piece  of  cotton  in  kerosene  and  inserting  in  the  cavity  of  the  tooth. 

4.  Colds. — Every  two  or  three  hours  take  ten  or  twelve  drops  of  kero- 
sene on  a lump  of  sugar.  Also  rub  the  neck  and  chest. 

5.  Sore  Lungs. — Wet  a cloth  in  kerosene  and  bind  on  the  chest  at  night. 
Also  take  ten  drops  internally  three  or  four  times  a day. 

6.  Diphtheria. — Swabbing  the  throat  every  two  or  three  hours  with 
kerosene  will  remove  the  membrane  and  reduce  the  inflammation  in  diphtheria. 

7.  Quinsy. — Kerosene  may  be  used  to  advantage  both  internally  and  ex- 
ternally in  the  treatment  of  quinsy. 

8.  Lice. — Kerosene  will  destroy  lice  and  other  vermin. 

9.  Dandruff. — A little  kerosene  mixed  with  glycerine  will  cleanse  the 
scalp  and  remove  dandruff. 

10.  Poisoning. — In  case  of  vegetable  poisoning  apply  kerosene  exter- 
nally until  relief  is  obtained. 


USES  OF  BORAX. 

1.  Eye  Wash. — A little  weak  borax  water  dropped  into  the  eyes  is  ex- 
cellent for  weak  or  inflamed  eyes. 

2.  Tooth  Powder. — Borax  is  a good  tooth  cleanser.  A good  tooth  pow- 
der is  made  by  mixing  % ounce  of  borax  with  3 ounces  of  precipitated  chalk 
and  adding  a few  drops  of  oil  of  wintergreen. 

3.  Washing  Powder. — Add  a handful  of  borax  to  10  gallons  of  water 
and  washing  will  be  made  easier.  It  will  not  injure  delicate  fabrics. 

4.  Dandruff. — A little  borax  in  the  water  will  remove  dandruff  and 
cleanse  the  scalp. 

5.  Roach  Exterminator. — Borax  scattered  in  places  frequented  by 
roaches  will  drive  them  from  the  premises. 

6.  Catarrh. — Pulverized  borax  used  as  a snuff  is  an  excellent  catarrh 
remedy. 

7.  Hoarseness. — A small  bit  of  borax  held  in  the  mouth  and  swallowed 
slowly  relieves  hoarseness. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional  Recipes.) 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional  Recipes.) 


443 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 

SUPPLEMENT. 

(Additional  Recipes.) 


MEDICAL  INDEX 


For  special  index  of  “ Herb  Remedies  ” see  Page  471. 

For  special  index  “ All  About  the  Mother  and  Her  Baby  ” see  Page  474. 


A 


Abbreviations  Used  by  Physicians 9 

Abdomen,  Bloating  of  2 

Abdomen,  Dropsy  of  166 

Abdomen,  Enlargement  of  392 

Abdomen,  Pains  in  18 

Abdomen,  Pains  and  Aches  in 4 

Abdominal  Diseases  143 

Abortion  400 

Abortion  and  Prevention  of  Conception  389 

Abscess  219 

Abscess,  Ischio-rectal  167 

Abscess  of  the  Brain  201 

Abscess  of  the  Kidney  181 

Abscess  of  the  Liver  170 

Absence  of  Menses  364 

ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20 

Apoplexy  20 

Asphyxia  or  Suffocation  20 

Bandaging  20 

Bites  of  Snakes  20 

Bites  of  Rattle-Snakes 21 

Bites  and  Stings  of  Insects  21 

Bites  of  Dogs  22 

Bites  of  Cats  22 

Bleeding  or  Hemorrhage  22 

Blisters  and  Blood  Blisters 24 

Bones,  Broken  and  Fractured 24 

Bruises  and  Slight  Cuts  24 

Burns  and  Scalds  25 

Choking 27 

Convulsions  and  Spasms  27 

Cramps  29 

Cuts  28 

Dislocations  29 

Dizziness  or  Vertigo 29 

Drowning  29 

Ear,  Things  in  30 

Epilepsy 30 

Eye,  Things  in  30 

Fainting  30 

Falls  31 

Fire  31 

Fits,  Falling  Fits  or  Epilepsy 31 

Fractures 31 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES— 

Continued. 

Freezing,  or  Frostbites  31 

Heart  Troubles  32 

Fast  Heart 32 

Palpitation  32 

Weak  Heart 32 

Heatstroke  or  Sunstroke 32 

Hemorrhage  33 

Hiccough  33 

Hydrophobia  33 

Nose,  Bleeding  from  33 

Nose,  Things  in 34 

Poisoning  35 

Smothering  36 

Sores  35 

Spasms  35 

Sprains  and  Strains,  Sprained  Back  tc.  35 

Stings 36 

Shock  36 

Sunstroke  36 

Wounds 36 

Acetic  Acid,  Poisoning  by  267 

Aches  (See  “Pain,”) 

Aches  and  Pains,  Table  of 4 

Aches  and  Pains  in  Abdomen  4 

Aches  and  Pains  in  Back  5 

Aches  and  Pains  in  Chest  4 

Aches  and  Pains  in  Head  4 

Aches  and  Pains  in  Joints  5 

Aches  and  Pains  in  Legs  5 

Aches  and  Pains  in  Shoulder  5 

Acid,  Acetic — Poisoning  by  267 

Acid,  Arsenious — Poisoning  by 268 

Acid,  Carbolic — Poisoning  by  269 

Acid,  Hydrochloric — Poisoning  by  267 

Acid,  Hydrocyanic — Poisoning  by 274 

Acid,  Muriatic — Poisoning  by 267 

Acid,  Nitric — Poisoning  by 267 

Acid,  Oxalic — Poisoning  by 272 

Acid,  Prussic — Poisoning  by  274 

Acid,  Sulphuric — Poisoning  by  267 

Acid  or  Corrosive  Poisoning 266 

Acne  232 

Aconite,  Poisoning  by  268 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  i 

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES  8 

444 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


445 


Acquired  Insanity  209 

Actinomycosis  88 

Acute  Anterior  Polio  Myelitis 203 

Acute  Articular  Rheumatism 65 

Acute  Ascending  Paralysis 204 

Acute  Bright's  Disease  178 

Acute  Bronchitis  112 

Acute  Catarrhal  Laryngitis  iii 

Acute  Coryza  98 

Acute  Cholecystitis  I73 

Acute  Chorea  ' i99 

Acute  Corporeal  Endometritis 379 

Acute  Gastric  Catarrh  143 

Acute  Gastritis  i43 

Acute  Hyperemia  I77 

Acute  Inflammation  of  Gall  Bladder  173 

Acute  Inflammation  of  Womb  379 

Acute  Inflammatory  Rheumatism  ...  65 

Acute  Miliary  Tuberculosis 70 

Acute  Nephritis  178 

Acute  Peritonitis  165 

Acute  Pneumonic  Tuberculosis  of 

Lungs  72 

Acute  Rheumatic  Fever 65 

Acute  Suppression  of  Menses  365 

Acute  Tuberculosis  of  Pleura 72 

Acute  Yellow  Atrophy  of  Liver  171 

Addison's  Disease 141 

Adenoids,  Enlarged  Tonsils  and 253 

Adenitis  71 

Adhesions  of  Clitoris  371 

Adiposity  216 

Afterbirth,  Delivery  of 396 

Ages,  Various — Doses  of  Medicines  for  8 

Agitans,  Paralysis  205 

Ague,  Fever  and 85 

Ague,  Salt  for  438 

Albumen  Water 42 

Alcohol,  Poisoning  by  268 

Allen's  Lung  Balsam  287 

Allopathic  Medicines  7 

Allopathic  Medicines,  External  7 

Allopathic  Medicines  for  Poisoning..  7 

Allopathic  Medicines,  Internal 7 

Almond  306 

Amenorrhea  364 

Ammonia  Water,  Poisoning  by  268 

Amyloid  Liver  171 

Anemia  '. 136 

Anemia,  Pernicious 137 

Anemia,  Primary  or  Essential 136 

Anemia,  Secondary  136 

Aneurism  135 

Angina  Pectoris 131 

Ani,  Prolapsus  166 

Animal  Parasites,.  Diseases  Due  to..  239 

Anteflexion  375 

Anterior  Polio  Myelitis,  Acute  203 

Anterior  Polio  Myelitis,  Chronic  203 

Anthrax  87 

ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES. . 20 
POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266 


Antidote,  Lemons  as  439 

Antidote,  Salt  as  438 

Antidotes  (See  “Poisons.”) 

Antidotes  to  Keep  on  Hand 266 

Anti-Fat  286 

Antimony,  Poisoning  by  268 

Antiseptic,  Salt  as  an  Internal 438 

Antiseptics  12 

Anuria  183 

Aortic  Stenosis 133 

Aphasia  201 

Aphonia  201 

Apoplexy  20,  200 

Appendicitis  18,  164,  262 

Appendicitis,  Comparison  with  Other 

Diseases  6 

Apple,  Thorn — Poisoning  by 274 

Appliances  for  Home  Medicine  Chest  7 

Arabian  Balsam 287 

Arbor  Vit^ 307 

Arm  Bone,  Fracture  of 37 

Arnica 305 

Arrowroot  Water 43 

Arsenate  of  Copper,  Poisoning  by 268 

Arsenic,  Poisoning  by  268 

Arsenious  Acid,  Poisoning  by 268 

Arse  Smart  306 

Arteries  and  Veins,  Diseases  of 127 

Arterio  Sclerosis  135 

Arthritis  362 

Articular  Rheumatism,  Acute  65 

Ascending  Paralysis,  Acute 204 

Ascites  166 

Aseptin  287 

Asiatic  Cholera  81 

Asparagus  305 

Asphyxia  or  Suffocation  20 

Asthma  124 

Asthma,  Lemons  for 439 

Ataxia,  Locomotor  202 

Atropia,  Poisoning  by  269 

Atropine,  Poisoning  by  269 

Atrophy  of  Liver,  Acute  Yellow 171 

Autumnal  Catarrh  108 

Avens 306 

Ayer's  Cherry  Pectoral  286 

Ayer's  Hair  Vigor 286 

Ayer's  Sarsaparilla  286 


BABY  (See  “All  About  the  Mother  and 

Her  Baby.”)  403 

Bathing  416 

Bleeding  from  Navel  419 

Care  of  417 

Clothing  for 415,  416 

Dont’s  for  420 

General  Signs  of  Sickness  in 418 

TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  i 

DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES  8 


446 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


BABY — Continued. 

Baby  Heart  393 

Making  Preparation  for  415 

Normal  Pulse  Rate  of 417 

Normal  Respirations  of  417 

Normal  Temperature  of  417 

Restless  and  Sleepless  418 

Baby’s  Wardrobe 415 

Back,  Pains  and  Aches  in  5 

Back,  Sprained  35 

Back,  Weak  (See  “Lumbago.”)  214 

Back  of  Head  and  Neck,  Neuralgia  of  191 

Bad  Breath  260 

Baldness  231 

Balm  of  Gilead 307 

Balsam  Fir 309 

BANDAGING  20,  36 

Bandages  36 

Desault  Method  of  38 

Dislocation  of  Fingers  and  Toes  40 

Dislocation  of  Jaw  40 

Dislocation  of  Shoulder  40 

Fractures  37 

Fracture  of  Arm  Bone  37 

Fracture  of  Bones  of  Forearm 38 

Fracture  of  Collar  Bone • 38 

Fracture  of  Fingers  40 

Fracture  of  Hip 39 

Fracture  of  Lower  Jaw 39 

Fracture  of  Nose  40 

Fracture  of  Ribs  39 

Fracture  of  Thigh  Bone 39 

General  Instructions  as  to  36 

Padding  36 

Splints  36 

Velpeau  Method  of 38 

Wounds 37 

Barberry  312 

Barber’s  Itch 234 

Barrel’s  Indian  Liniment  287 

Barker’s  Bone  and  Nerve  Liniment.  . . . 287 

Barley  and  Egg  Water  43 

Barley  Jelly  from  the  Flour 4:2 

Barey  Jelly  from  the  Grains  41 

Barley  Water  42 

Basedow’s  Disease 141 

Basilar  Meningitis 71 

Basswood  309 

Bath,  Salt  for  438 

Bathing  the  Baby  416 

BATHS 12 

Bed  13 

Bran  14 

Foot  13 

For  Young  Women 387 

Internal  14 

Mustard  Foot  14 

Salt 14 

Sitz  13 

Soda  14 


BATHS — Continued. 

Sponge  13 

Sulphur 14 

Tub 13 

Hair  13 

Bayberry  312 

Bay  Rum  288 

Bearberry 313 

Bed  Bath  13 

Bed  Linen,  Towels,  Etc 16 

Bed  Pan  and  How  to  Use  It  ii 

Bed  Sores,  Prevention  and  Care  of ii 

Bed,  To  Draw  Patient  up  in  10 

Bed,  To  Set  Patient  Up  in  ii 

Bed,  To  Make  Patient  Comfortable  in  9 
Bed,  To  Move  Patient  from  One  to  An- 
other   10 

Bed  Wetting 186 

Beech 309 

Beecham’s  Pills  287 

Beech  Drops 313 

Beef  Broth  41 

Beef  Juice  from  Broiled  Steak  41 

Beef  Tea  by  Cold  Process  41 

Belladonna,  Poisoning  by  269 

Bellwort  307 

Bending  Forward  of  Womb 375 

Beriberi 88 

Berries,  Sumach — Poisoning  by 272 

Beth  Root 307 

Bichloride  of  Mercury — Disinfectant 

AND  Antiseptic  12 

Bichloride  of  Mercury,  Poisoning  by.  . . 270 

Big  “ G ” Injection  288 

Bile  Ducts,  Inflammation  of 171 

Bile  Ducts,  Suppuration  of  173 

Bile  Passages,  Diseases  of  170 

Bilious  Sick  Headache  188 

Biliousness 174 

Biliousness,  Lemons  for 439 

Birthmarks  263,  431 

Bismuth  Oxide,  Poisoning  by  269 

Bismuth  Subnitrate,  Poisoning  by  . . . 269 

Bites  and  Stings  of  Insects  21 

Bites  of  Cats  22 

Bites  of  Dogs  22 

Bites  of  Rattle- Snakes  21 

Bites  of  Snakes 20 

Bitter  Root  314 

Bitter  Sweet  313 

Blackberry  314 

Black  Cohosh  310 

Black  Death  82 

Blackheads  232 

Black  Helebore,  Poisoning  by 271 

Black  Snake  Root 309 

Bladder,  Inflammation  of 185 

Bladder  and  Kidneys,  Diseases  of 176 

Bladder  and  Kidneys,  Home  Remedies 
for  182 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


447 


Bladder.  Kidneys  and  Urine  in  Preg- 
nancy   391 

BLEEDING  4,  22 

Bright  Red  and  in  Spurts 4 

in  Labor  397 

from  Lungs  120 

from  Mouth  4 

from  Nose  4,  33 

from  Rectum  4 

Salt  for 438 

Steady  Flow  of  Dark  Blood 4 

Bleeding  or  Internal  Piles  167 

Blind  Piles  (Internal  or  Bleeding)  167 

Blisters  and  Blood  Blisters  24 

BLOATING  2 

of  Abdomen  2 

of  Face  2 

of  Legs  and  Feet  2 

of  Stomach  2 

Under  Eyes 2 

Blood  Blisters  24 

Blood,  Bright  Red  and  in  Spurts 4 

Blood,  Diseases  of 136 

Blood,  Home  Remedies  for 137 

Blood  Poisoning  81 

Blood  Purifiers  137 

Blood  Root  315 

Blood,  Steady  Flow  of  Dark 4 

Blood  Sufferers  137 

Bloody  Flux  67 

Bloody  Urine 184 

Blue  Bells  308 

Blue  Cardinal  Flower  308 

Blue  Cohosh  31 1 

Blue  Flag 315 

Blue  Violet  310 

Blue  Vitriol,  Poisoning  by 269 

Bluestone.  Poisoning  by 269 

Bluish  or  Inky  Lips  and  Tongue i 

Body,  Care  of  After  Death  20 

Body  Lice 241 

Boiled  Milk  408 

Boils  222 

Bones,  Broken  (See  “Bandaging.”) 36 

Bones,  Broken  and  Fractured  24 

Bones,  Diseased 264 

Boneset  316 

BORAX,  USES  OF 440 

Catarrh  440 

Dandruff  440 

Eye  Wash  440 

Hoarseness  440 

Roach  Exterminator 440 

Tooth  Powder  440 

Washing  Powder 440 

Boric  Acid  Antiseptic  Wash  for  Mouth  12 

Boschee's  German  Syrup  288 

Bouquet  Fever  (See  “Dengue.”) 88 

Bowel,  Fallen  166 

Bowel,  Fistula  of  167 


Bowel  Troubles  159 

Bov/els  387 

Bowels,  Inflammation  of 162 

Bowels,  Telescoping  of  165 

Bowlegs  264 

Boxwood  317 

Boys  and  Girls,  Our 383 

Bran  Baths  14 

Brain,  Abscess  of 201 

Brain  and  Membranes,  Tumors  of 201 

Brain,  Water  on  71 

Bread,  Dried  42 

Breakbone  Fever 88 

Breast,  Broken  399,  404 

Breast,  Hard,  Inflamed  and  Caked 406 

Breast  Pang  131 

Breast,  Tumors  and  Cancers  of 263 

Breasts,  Changes  in 391 

Breath,  Bad  260 

Breathing,  Pain  in 4 

Breach  Presentation  394 

Bright's  Disease,  Acute  178 

Brights  Disease,  Chronic  178 

British  Oil  287 

Broad  Leaved  Dock  310 

Broiled  Steak,  Beef  Juice  from  41 

Broken  Bones  (See  “Bandaging.”) 36 

Broken  Breast  399,  404 

Bromidrosis  227 

Bronchitis,  Acute  112 

Bronchitis,  Capillary  73,  116 

Bronchitis,  Chronic  115 

Bronchitis,  Directions  for  Nursing...  18 

Bronchitis  or  Croup  Tent  18 

Bronchial  Asthma  124 

Bronchocele  140 

Broncho-Pneumonia  116 

Broth,  Mutton  41 

Broths — Chicken,  Veal  and  Beef 41 

Brown's  Bronchial  Troches  288 

Bruises  and  Slight  Cuts 24 

Bubo  359 

Bubonic  Plague  82 

Buchu  317 

Bucket  Fever  (See  “Dengue.”)  88 

Bucklen's  Arnica  Salve 288 

Buck  Thorn  Brake 317 

Bugle  Weed  310 

Bulbar  Paralysis 203 

Bunions  226 

Burdock  317 

Burns  and  Scalds  25 

Butternut 310 


C 


Caked  Breast 406 

Caked  and  Broken  Breasts  399 

Calculus,  Renal  180 

Camphor  Ice 289 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


448 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Camphor,  Poisoning  by  270 

Cancer  of  Cervix  or  Neck  of  Womb.  ..  378 

Cancer  of  Lip,.  Tongue,  Face,  Etc 262 

Cancer  of  Liver  171 

Cancer  of  Stomach  146 

Cancer  of  Womb  and  Stomach  263 

Cancers  of  Breast,  Tumors  and  263 

Cancers  and  Tumors  218 

Cancrum  Oris  258 

Cankers  and  Ulcers 256 

Cantharides,  Poisoning  by 269 

Cantharis,  Poisoning  by  269 

Capillary  Bronchitis  73,  116 

Capsule  of  Liver,  Cirrhosis  or  Harden- 
ing OF  171 

Caraway  318 

Carbolic  Acid  Antiseptic  Solution 12 

Carbolic  Acid  Disinfectant  12 

Carbolic  Acid,  Poisoning  by  269 

Carbuncles  220 

Carcinoma  218 

Carcinomata  218 

Care  and  Prevention  of  Bed  Sores ii 

Care  of  Baby  417 

Care  of  Body  After  Death  20 

Care  of  Nipples  406 

Care  in  Infectious  and  Contagious 

Diseases  15 

Carrying  Patient  when  Sitting 10 

Carter's  Little  Liver  Pills  288 

Castoria  289 

Catalepsy 206 

Cataract  245 

Cataract  and  Film  on  Eye  264 

Catarrh,  Acute  Gastric  143 

Catarrh,  Autumnal  108 

Catarrh,  Borax  for  440 

Catarrh,  Chronic  Nasal  106 

Catarrh,  Cervical  (Acute  and  Chonic)  377 
Catarrh  or  Inflammation  of  Bile 

Ducts  171 

Catarrh  of  Stomach,  Chronic  143 

Catarrh,  Salt  for  438 

Catarrhal  Croup  108 

Catarrhal  Enteritis  162 

Catarrhal  Headache  190 

Catarrhal  Laryngitis,  Acute  iii 

Catnip  318 

Caustic,  Lunar — Poisoning  by 272 

Caustic  Potash,  Poisoning  by  268 

Cayenne  Pepper  318 

Cedar,  Oil  of — Poisoning  by  273 

Cerates  304 

Cerebro-Spinal  Fever  61 

Cerebro-Spinal  Meningitis 61 

Cervical  Catarrh,  Acute  and  Chronic  377 
Cervical  or  Neck  Glands,  Tuberculosis 

OF  71 

Cervico-brachtal  Neuralgia 191 

Cervico-occipital  Neuralgia 191 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES. . 20 
POISONS  AND  ANl'IDOTES  266 


Cervix  in  Pregnancy  393 

Cervix  Uteri,  Laceration  of  377 

Cessation  or  Stopping  of  Menses 391 

Chafing  433 

Chair,  To  Place  a Patient  in  ii 

Chamomile  318 

Chancre  361 

Chancroid  361 

Changes  in  the  Breasts 391 

Chamberlain’s  Colic,  Cholera  and 

Diarrhea  Remedy 289 

Chamberlain's  Relief  289 

Chapped  Hands  and  Face  (See  “Chap- 
ping.”)   229 

Chapping  229 

Chapter  for  Married  Women  389 

Chapter  for  Men  359 

Chapter  for  Women  of  Forty-five 401 

Chapter  for  Young  Women 384 

Cheek,  Single  Red i 

Cheeks,  Red  or  Hectic i 

Chest,  Home  Medicine  7 

Chest,  Pains  and  Aches  in  4 

Chestnut 319 

Chicken  Broth  41 

Chicken-Pox  56,  436 

Chicken-Pox,  Comparison  with  Other 

Diseases  6 

Chilblains  228 

Child,  Cry  of 3 

Child  Crowing  112 

Child-Bed  Fever 398 

Child,  Delivery  of 3^ 

Childhood,  Ileo-colitis  of  163 

Children,  How  to  Conceive  and  Bear 

Healthy  390 

CHILDREN’S  DISEASES 420 

Birthmarks  and  Moles 431 

Chafing  433 

Chicken-Pox  436 

Cholera  Infantum  426 

Colic 422 

Colds  428 

Constipation  427 

Convulsions  434 

Diarrhea  425 

Diphtheria  435 

Earache  421 

Eczema  432 

German  Measles  436 

Headache  422 

Hives — Nettle  Rash — Urticaria 434 

Measles  435 

Membranous  Croup 43^ 

Milk  Crust 433 

Prickly  Heat 43i 

Rheumatism  436 

Rickets  437 

Scarlet  Fever 436 

Spasmodic  Croup 430 


TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  i 

DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES  8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


449 


CHILDREN’S  DISEASES— 

Sore  Eyes  420 

Sore  Mouth  425 

Sore  Throat  429 

Stomach  Rash — Tooth  Rash  434 

Teething  423 

Tooth  Rash — Stomach  Rash  434 

Whooping  Cough  436 

Chill 2 

Chills  and  Fever 85 

Chloral  Hydrate,  Poisoning  by  270 

Chloride  of  Lime  Disinfectant 12 

Chlorosis  136 

Choking 27 

Cholecystitis,  Acute  173 

Cholelithiasis  i73 

Cholera,  Asiatic 81 

Cholera  Infantum  157,  426 

Cholera  Morbus  158 

Cholera  Morbus,  Salt  for 438 

Cholera,  Nostras  158 

Cholera,  Sporadic  158 

Choosing  a Husband 389 

Chordee  359 

Chorea,  Acute 199 

Chorea,  Hereditary 200 

Chorea,  Huntington’s  200 

Chorea,  Sydenham’s  199 

Chronic  Anterior  Polio  Myelitis  203 

Chronic  Bright’s  Disease  178 

Chronic  Bronchitis  115 

Chronic  Catarrh  of  Stomach  143 

Chronic  Congestion  of  Kidneys 177 

Chronic  Corporeal  Endometritis 380 

Chronic  Discharge  from  Ear 248 

Chronic  Gastritis  143 

Chronic  Inflammation  of  Womb 380 

Chronic  Jaundice 173 

Chronic  Nasal  Catarrh 106 

Chronic  Nephritis 178 

Chronic  Pharyngitis  256 

Chronic  Rheumatism 21 1 

Chronic  Rhinitis  106 

Chronic  Sore  Throat 256 

Chronic  Ulcerative  Tuberculosis  of 

Lungs  73 

Chronic  Valvular  Heart  Disease 132 

Circulation,  Diseases  of  Organs  of...  127 

Circulation,  Plan  of 127 

Circumcision  265 

Cirrhosis  or  Hardening  of  Capsule  of 

Liver  171 

Cirrhosis,  Hypertrophic  171 

Cirrhosis  of  Liver  171 

Clap  359 

Classification  of  Insanity  209 

Clavicle,  Fracture  of  38 

Cleavers  319 

Cleft  Palate  263 

Clitoris,  Adhesions  of 371 


Clitoris,  Operation  on  

Clothing  for  Baby 415, 

Cloves  

Club  Feet  

Cobalt,  Poisoning  by  

COCCYDYNIA  

Coddled  Egg  

Codeine,  Poisoning  by 

Coke  Dandruff  Cure  

Colds  

Colds,  Coughs  and  Hoarseness  

Colds,  Kerosene  for 

Colds,  Lemons  for 

Colic  150, 

Colic,  Salt  for  

Color  of  Skin  in  Disease 

Collar  Bone,  Fracture  of 

Columbo  Root 

Comfrey  

Comparison  of  Diseases  

Compensation  and  Failure  of  Compen- 
sation   

Complaints,  Diarrhea  and  Summer  ... 

Conception,  Prevention  of 

Condensed  Milk  

Congestion  of  Kidneys  

Congestion  of  Kidneys,  Chronic  

Congestion  of  Liver  

CoNiuM,  Poisoning  by  

Conjunctivitis  

Constipation  153, 

Constitutional  Diseases  

Consumption,  Galloping  

Contagious  and  Infectious  Diseases  i 5, 
Contagious  Diseases,  Disinfecting  Af-  , 

ter 

Convulsions  

Convulsions  in  Pregnant  Women 

Convulsions  or  Spasms  

Copper,  Arsenate  of — Poisoning  by 

Copper,  Sulphate  of — Poisoning  by 

Copperas  Disinfectant  

Cord,  Dressing  and  Tying  

Cornsilk  

Corn  Sweat  

Corns  

Corns,  Lemons  for 

Corporeal  Endometritis,  Acute  

Corporeal  Endometritis,  Chronic  

Corpulence  

Corrosive  or  Acid  Poisoning 

Corrosive  Sublimate  Disinfectant  and 

Antiseptic  

Corrosive  Sublimate,  Poisoning  by 

Coryza,  Acute  

Cough  in  Different  Diseases  

Cough — Coarse,  Barking  

Cough — Dry,  Hacking  

Cough,  Loose  

Cough,  Spasmodic  


265 

416 

320 

264 

270 

192 

42 

273 

289 

428 

98 

440 

439 

422 

438 

I 

38 

320 

320 

5 


130 

148 

389 

410 

177 

177 

174 

271 

242 

427 

211 

72 

44 


12 

434 

397 

27 

268 

269 
12 

396 

321 

17 

226 


439 

379 


380 

216 

266 


12 

270 

98 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


i 

8 


m 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Cough,  Whooping  96,  436 

Coughs,  Colds  and  Hoarseness  98 

Coughs  and  Hoarseness,  Lemons  for..  439 

Coup  de  Soleil 197 

Cow's  Milk  409>  4io 

Crabs  or  Body  Lice 241 

Cracked  Nipples  404 

Cramps  29 

Cravings  in  Pregnancy  392 

Crawley  Root 321 

Cream  and  Rice  Mixture 43 

Creosote,  Poisoning  by  269 

Cretinism 141 

Crooked  Feet 264 

Cross-Eyes  245,  263 

Croup,  Kerosene  for  440 

Croup,  Membranous  or  True... 45,  108,  431 

Croup  or  Bronchitis  Tent 18 

Croup,  Salt  for  438 

Croup,  Spasmodic  108,  430 

Croup,  False  108 

Croup,  Catarrhal  108 

Croup,  Pseudo  108 

Crowfoot  322 

Crowing,  Child 112 

Crust,  Milk  •. 433 

Cry  of  Child,  Meaning  of 3 

Cry  of  Child — Catchy,  Jerky  3 

Cry  of  Child — Boisterous,  Temporary.  3 

Cry  of  Child — Moaning,  Wailing  3 

Culver's  Root  322 

Curds  and  Whey  41 

Cuts  28 

Cuticura  Ointment  289 

Cuticura  Resolvent  289 

Cystitis 185 

Cysts,  Ovarian  383 


D 


Dance,  St.  Vitus' 

Dandruff  

Dandruff,  Borax  for  

Dandruff,  Kerosene  for 

Dandelion  

Dandy  Fever  (See  “Dengue.")  

Death,  Care  of  Body  After 

Death,  Black  

Deadly  Nightshade,  Poisoning  by 

Deafness  

Decoctions 

Definitions  of  Forms  of  Insanity 

Deformities,  Malignant  Growths  and 

Operations  

Delirium  Tremens 

Delivery  of  Afterbirth  or  Placenta... 

Delivery  of  Child  

Delusion  

Dementia  

Dementia  Paralytica 


199 

231 

440 


440 

323 

88 


20 

82 

269 

249 

304 

209 


262 

207 

396 

396 

209 

210 
202 


Dengue  88 

Description  and  Location  of  Gall 

Bladder  170 

Description  and  Location  of  Liver 170 

Description  and  Location  of  Pancreas  170 

Description  of  Fallopian  Tubes  381 

Description  of  Heart  and  Valves..,..  127 

Description  of  Ovaries  382 

Description  of  Respiratory  Organs  ...  95 

Dewberry  314 

Diabetes  Insipidus  217 

Diabetes  Mellitus 216 

Diabetes,  Sugar  216 

Diapers  416 

Diarrhea  425 

Diarrhea  and  Dysentery  19 

Diarrhea  and  Dysentery,  Salt  for  . . . 438 
Diarrhea  and  Summer  Complaints  ...  148 

Diet  387 

Diet  for  Tuberculosis  Patient 74 

Difficult  and  Painful  Menstruation.  367 

Diffuse  Inflammation  of  Kidneys 178 

Digitalis,  Poisoning  by 270 

Dilatation 130 

Diphtheria 45,  435 

Diphtheria  Compared  with  Other  Dis- 
eases   5 

Diphtheria,  Kerosene  for 440 

Diphtheria,  Laryngeal  45 

Diphtheria,  Lemons  for  439 

Directions  for  Nursing  Various  Dis- 
eases   16 

Disease,  Acute  Bright's  178 

Disease,  Addison's  141 

Disease,  Basedow's 141 

Disease,  Chronic  Bright's  178 

Disease,  Chronic  Valvular  Heart 132 

Disease,  Heart — General  Treatment  of  134 

Disease,  Grave’s  141 

Disease,  Hip  Joint  264 

Disease,  Hodgkin's 140 

Disease,  Mastoid 248,  264 

Disease  of  Supra-Renal  Glands  141 

Disease,  Parry’s  141 

Disease,  Prevention  of  43 

Disease,  Pulmonary  Valve  134 

Disease,  Tricuspid  Valve 134 

Diseased  Bones  264 

Diseases,  Abdominal  143 

Diseases  Attending  and  Following 

Pregnancy  and  Labor 397 

Diseases — Causes,  Symptoms  and 

Treatment  of  45 

Diseases,  Children's  420 

Diseases,  Comparison  of 5 

Diseases,  Constitutional  21 1 

Diseases  Due  to  Animal  Parasites  ...  239 
Diseases,  General  Directions  for  Nurs- 
ing Various 16 

Diseases,  Infectious  and  Contagious  15,  45 


I 

8 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES 266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


451 


Diseases  of  Bile  Passages 

Diseases  of  Blood 

Diseases  of  Ductless  Glands 

Diseases  of  Ear 

Diseases  of  Eye  

Diseases  of  Eye,  Ear,  Nose,  Throat 

AND  ]\Touth  

Diseases  of  Fallopian  Tubes  

Diseases  of  Gall  Bladder 

Diseases  of  Heart,  Arteries  and  Veins 

Diseases  of  Joints 

Diseases  of  Kidneys  and  Bladder..  . 176, 

Diseases  of  Liver 

Diseases  of  Lungs,  Bronchial  Tubes 

and  Air  Passages 

Diseases  of  Mouth  

Diseases  of  Nervous  System 

Diseasess  of  Nose  

Diseases  of  Organs  of  Circulation... 

Diseases  of  Ovaries 

Diseases  of  Pancreas 

Diseases  of  Spleen  • 

Diseases  of  Stomach  and  Intestines... 

Diseases  of  Throat 

Diseases  of  Vaginia  

Diseases  of  Vulva  

Diseases  of  Womb  

Diseases  of  Women  

Diseases,  Skin  

Discharge  from  E.^R,  Chronic  

Discharge  from  Nose  or  Eyes  

Dishes,  Care  of  in  Diseases  


170 

136 

136 

246 

242 


242 

381 

I/O 

127 

264 

182 

170 


95 


256 

187 


249 

127 

382 

I/O 

140 


143 

250 


371 

369 

374 

364 

218 

248 


4 

16 


DISINFECTANTS  AND  ANTISEP- 
TICS   12 

Boric  Acid  12 

Carbolic  Acid  12 

Chloride  of  Lime 12 

Copperas  12 

Corrosive  Sublimate 12 

Disinfecting  Room  12 

Disinfecting  Vapor  12 

Dry  Disinfectants  12 

Disinfection  and  Isolation  16 

Disinfecting  a Room  12 

Dislocations  (See  “ Bandaging.”) ..  .29,  36 

Dislocations  of  Fingers  and  Toes  40 

Dislocations  of  Jaw  40 

Dislocations  of  Shoulder  40 

Disorders  of  Menstruation  364 

Dizziness  or  Vertigo 29 

“ DonPs  ” for  the  Baby  420 

Dorsalis,  Tabes  202 

Doses  of  Medicine  for  Various  Ages..  8 
Douches  and  Injections  (Internal 

Baths)  14 

Dress  388 

Dressing  and  Tying  Cord  396 

Dried  Bread  42 

Dropsy  176 

Dropsy  During  Pregnancy  397 


Dropsy  of  Abdomen 

Drowning  • 

Drunkenness  

Dry  Disinfectants 

Ducts,  Inflammation  of  Bile  . 
Ducts,  Suppuration  of  Bile  . . . 
Ductless  Glands,  Diseases  of  . 

Duration  of  Labor  

Dwarf  Elder  

Dysentery  

Dysentery  and  Diarrhea  

Dyspepsia,  Indigestion  and 

Dyspepsia  of  Pregnant  Women 

Dyspepsia,  Salt  for 

Dysmenorrhea  


166 

29 

207 

12 


171 

173 


136 


394 

323 

67 


19 

143 

392 

438 

367 


E 

EAR,  DISEASES  OF 246 

Earache  246 

Inflammation  of  Ear  248 

Inflammation  of  Middle  Ear 264 

Chronic  Discharge  from  Ear 248 

Deafness  249 

Mastoid  Diesease 248 

Things  in  Ear 30,  249 

Earache  19,  246,  421 

Earache,  Salt  for  438 

Eczema  233,  432 

Eclampsy 397 

Edema  176 

Egg  and  Barley  Water 43 

Egg,  Coddled 42 

Eggs,  Hard  Boiled  43 

Egyptian  Eye  Salve  290 

Elder  323 

Elecampane 324 

Elm  324 

Elongation  of  Palate 253 

Ely's  Cream  Balm  290 

Emergencies,  Accidents  and  20 

Emetics  266 

Emissions,  Nocturnal  362 

Endocarditis  132 

Endocarditis,  Acute  132 

Endocarditis,  Chronic  132 

Endocarditis,  Malignant  132 

Endometritis,  Acute  Corporeal  379 

Endometritis,  Chronic  Corporeal  380 

Enlarged  Prostrate  Gland 363 

Enlarged  Tonsils  and  Adenoids  253 

Enlargement  and  Hardening  of  Liver  171 
Enlargement  of  Abdomen  in  Preg- 
nancy   392 

Enlargement  of  Heart  130 

Enteric  Fever  76 

Enteritis,  Catarrhal 162 

Enuresis  186 

Epidemic  Parotitis 54 

Epilepsy  30,  198 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES. . 20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


8 


453 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Erysipelas  62 

Erysipelas,  Lemons  for 439 

Espey's  Cream  290 

Essential  Anemia 136 

Excessive  Menstrual  Flow  366 

Exercise  388 

Exhaustion,  Heat  197 

Exhaustion,  Nervous  195 

Exopthalmic  Goitre  141 

External  Piles  167 

External  Stimulant,  Salt  as 438 

Extracts  304 

EYE,  DISEASES  OF 242 

Cataract  245,  264 

Conjunctivitis  242 

Cross-eyes  245,  263 

Eye  Strain  and  Glasses  246 

] ilm  on  Sight  245,  264 

Granular  Eyelids  244 

Hordeolum  245 

Inflammation  of  Eyelids  242 

Inflammation  of  Iris  244 

Iritis  244 

Pterygium  245 

Sore  Eyes 420 

Stye  245 

Things  in  Eye  30,  245 

Weak  and  Inflamed  Eyes 242 

Eye  Wash,  Borax  as  440 

Eye  Wash,  Salt  as  438 

Eyebrows,  Pain  Over 4 

Eyelids,  Granular 244 

Eyelids,  Inflammation  of  242 

Eyes,  Aching  in 3 

Eyes,  Bloating  Under  2 

Eyes  and  Nose,  Discharges  from 4 

EYES  IN  DIFFERENT  DISEASES..  3 

Contracted  Pupils  3 

Dilated  Pupils 3 

Red  and  Inflamed  3 

Rolling  of  3 

Turned  Sideways 3 

F 

Face,  Bloating  of  2 

Face,  Cancer  of  262 

Face,  Neuralgia  of 191 

Face,  Spasmodic  Neuralgia  of  loi 

Face  and  Hands,  Chapped 229 

Failure  of  Compensation  130 

Failure  of  Heart,  Emergency  Remedies 

FOR 128 

Fainting 30 

Fallen  Bowel 166 

Falling  Fits  198 

Falling  of  Y/omb 374 

Fallopian  Tubes,  Description  of  381 

Fallopian  Tubes,  Diseases  of 381 


Fallopian  Tubes,  Inflammation  of  ...  381 


Falls  31 

False  Croup  108 

False  Unicorn  Root 325 

Farcy  88 

Fatness  216 

Fats  and  Proteids  in  Milk  408 

Fatty  Heart 13 1 

Feces  and  Urine  16 

Feeding  in  Various  Diseases  16 

Feeding  and  Nursing  403 

Feeding  Rules  up  to  12  Mos 412 

Feeding  Rules  from  12  to  15  Mos 412 

Feeding  Rules  from  15  to  20  Mos 413 

Feeding  Rules  from  20  to  24  Mos 413 

Feeding  Rules  for  Third  Year  413 

Feeding  Rules  from  Third  to  Seventh 

Year 414 

Feeding  Rules,  Summary  of 410 

Feet,  Crooked  or  Club 264 

Feet,  Hands  and  3 

Feet  and  Legs,  Bloating  of 2 

Feet,  Sweating  of  227 

Felon  223 

Fennel  325 

Fever,  Acute  Rheumatic  65 

Fever,  Bouquet  (See  “Dengue.”) 88 

Fever,  Cerebro-Spinal  61 

Fever,  Child-Bed  398 

Fever,  Breakbone  ^ 

Fever,  Bucket  (See  “Dengue.”)  88 

Fever,  Dandy  (See  “Dengue.”)  88 

Fever,  Enteric 76 

Fever,  Hay  108 

Fever,  Intermittent  85 

Fever,  Isolation  or  Thermic 197 

Fever,  Lung  117 

Fever,  Malarial  85 

Fe\’er,  Malta  88 

Fever,  Masha  88 

Fever,  Pernicious  85 

Fever,  Puerperal  398 

Fever,  Relapsing 85 

Fever,  Remittent  85 

Fever,  Scarlet 48,  436 

Fever,  Spotted 61 

Fever,  Three  Day 88 

Fever,  Tick  88 

Fever,  Typhoid  19,  76 

Fever,  Typhus  80 

Fever,  Yellow  84 

Fever  in  Different  Diseases 2 

Fevers,  Lemons  for  439 

Fibroid  Tumors  of  Womb  380 

Film  on  Sight 245 

Film  and  Cataract  264 

Finger,  Hammer 265 

Fingers,  Fracture  of  40 

Fingers  and  Toes,  Dislocation  of 40 

Fire  3i 

Fire  WEED 326 


OCCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


453 


First  Stage  of  Labor 394 

Fissure  i66 

Fistula  of  Bowel 167 

Fits  or  Epilepsy  31,  198 

Flaxseed  Tea 43 

Fleas 241 

Flow,  Excessive  Menstrual 366 

Fluid  Extracts  304 

Flux,  Bloody  67 

Fly  Poison,  Poisoning  by 270 

Fcetal  Heart 393 

Fomentations  284,  305 

Foods  for  Children 414 

Foods  Forbidden  Children  415 

Foods,  Poisoning  by 271 

FOODS  FOR  THE  SICK 41 

Albumen  Water 42 

Arrowroot  Water  43 

Barley  Water 42 

Barley  Jelly  from  the  Flour  42 

Barley  Jelly  from  the  Grains 41 

Beef  Juice  from  Broiled  Steak  41 

Beef  Juice  by  Cold  Process  41 

Chicken,  Veal  and  Beef  Broths  41 

Coddled  Egg 42 

Cream  and  Rice  Mixture  43 

Dried  Bread  42 

Egg  and  Barley  Water 43 

Flaxseed  Tea  43 

Gluten  Water  42 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs 43 

Imperial  Granum 42 

Junkets  or  Curds  and  Whey 41 

Lime  Water 42 

Meat  Pulp  41 

Mutton  Broth  41 

Oatmeal  Water 42 

Oat,  Wheat  or  Rice  Jelly 42 

Oat  or  Wheat  Jelly  from  Flour 42 

Rice  Water  43 

Toast  Water  43 

Whey  41 

Fool's  Parsley,  Poisoning  by 271 

Foot  Baths  13 

Foot  Baths,  Mustard 14 

Foot  Fungus  88 

Foot  and  Heel,  Neuralgia  of 192 

Forearm,  Fracture  of  38 

Forehead,  Pain  or  Aching  in 4 

Foxglove  326 

Foxglove,  Poisoning  by 270 

Fowler's  Solution  of  Arsenic,  Poison- 
ing BY  268 

Fractures  (See  “ Bandaging.”)  ..31,36,  37 
Fractures  of  Arm  Bone  or  Humerus..  37 

Fractures  of  Bones  of  Forearm 38 

Fractures  of  Collar  Bone  or  Clavicle  38 

Fractures  of  Fingers  40 

Fractures  of  Hip 39 

Fractures  of  Lower  Jaw  39 

ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES. . 20 

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266 


Fractures  of  Nose  40 

Fractures'  of  Ribs  39 

Fractures  of  Thigh  Bone  39 

Freckles  232 

Freckles,  Lemons  for 439 

Freezing  and  Frostbites  (See  “Chil- 
blains.”)   31,  228 

Frostilla  290 

Frothing  at  Mouth 3 

Fungus  Foot  8 

Furunculosis 222 


G 

Gall  Bladder,  Acute  Inflammation  of  173 

Gall  Bladder,  Description  of 170 

Gall  Bladder,  Diseases  of 170 

Gall  Bladder,  Malignant  Growths  in  174 

Galloping  Consumption 72 

Gall  Stone  Colic 6 

Gall  Stones  173,  265 

Gangrene 236 

Gangrenous  Sore  IMouth 258 

Garlic  326 

Gargling  Oil  290 

Gas,  Poisoning  by  271 

Gastralgia  146 

Gastric  Catarrh,  Acute  143 

Gastric  Ulcer  146 

Gastritis,  Acute  143 

Gastritis,  Chronic  143 

Gauze  Handkerchiefs 16 

General  Directions  for  Nursing 16 

General  Paralysis  of  Insane 202 

General  Paresis  210 

General  Meningitis  202 

General  Treatment  of  Heart  Disease  134 

Gentian  327 

Genu  Valgum  264 

Genu  Varum  264 

Genuine  White  Oil  Liniment 290 

German  Measles  54,  436 

German  Measles  Compared  with  Other 

Diseases  6 

Giles's  Iodide  of  Ammonia  Liniment..  291 

Ginger 327 

Ginseng 328 

Girls,  Our  Boys  and 383 

Giving  Medicines  16 

Gland,  Prostrate — Enlarged  or  In- 
flamed   363 

Glands,  Diseases  of  Ductless  136 

Glands,  Disease  of  Supra-Renal 141 

Glands,  Vulvo-VaoInal— Inflamma- 
tion OF  369 

Glands,  Vulvo- Vaginal — Suppuration 

OF 369 

Glands,  Tuberculous  264 

Glands,  Lymph — Tuberculosis  of 71 

Glands,  Neck — Tuberculosis  of 71 

TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  i 

DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 8 


454 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Glanders  

Glasses,  Eye  Strain  and 
Gleet 


Going  into  Society 


Gout  

Gout  and  Rheumatism,  Lemons  for 439 

Granular  Eyelids  244 

Granum,  Imperial 42 

Grave’s  Disease 141 

Great  London  Liniment 291 

Green  Mountain  Salve 291 

Green  Sickness  136 

Green  Stools  41 1 

Green’s  August  Flower  .* 292 

Green’s  Nervura  292 

Growths  in  Gall  Bladder,  Malignant  174 

Growths  in  Mouth  and  Nose  263 

Growths,  Malignant  262 

Growths  in  Nose  249 

Grip  59 

Gullet,  Inflammation  of 162 

Gullet,  Spasm  of 162 


H 

H.^maturta  184 

HyEMOPTYSIS 120 

Hair  of  Patient,  To  Wash  13 

Hair  Tonic,  Salt  as 438 

Hair  Tonics  and  Restoratives  231 

Hall’s  Catarrh  Cure 292 

Hall’s  Hair  Renewer 293 

Hallucination  209 

Hamburg  Tea 292 

Hamlin’s  Wizard  Oil ’ 293 

Hammer  Finger  and  Toe 265 

Handkerchiefs,  Gauze 16 

Hands  and  Face,  Chapped  229 

Hands  and  Feet  3 

Hanson’s  Magic  Corn  Cure  293 

Hard  and  Inflamed  Breast 406 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs  43 

Hardening  of  Liver 171 

Hardening  of  Capsule  of  Liver 171 

Hard  Hack  329 

Hare  Lip  263 

Harlem  Oil  293 


88 

Hartshorn,  Poisoning  by  . . 

....  268 

246 

Hay  Fever 

259 

Head,  Pains  and  Aches  in 

4 

112 

Head,  Sweating  of  

112 

Head  and  Neck,  Neuralgia 

of 

112 

Head  and  Neck,  Ringworm 

ON 

42 

PIeadache,  

.187,  422 

388 

Headache,  Bilious  Sick  ... 

....  188 

140 

PIeadache,  Catarrhal  

141 

PIeadache,  Home  Remedies 

for  . . . 

292 

Headache,  Lemons  for 

328 

Headache,  Neuralgic  

328 

Headache,  Nervous  

291 

Headacfte,  Sick  

187 

359 

HEADACHE  IN  VARIOUS  DIS- 

362 

EASES  

3 

291 

Aching  in  Eyes 

3 

215 

Back  Part  of  Head 

3 

Front  Part  of  Head 3 

In  Temples  3 

Throbbng  3 

Top  and  Back  of  Head 3 

Heart,  Arteries  and  Veins  127 

Heart  Disease,  Chronic  Valvular 132 

Heart  Disease,  General  Treatment  of  134 

Heart,  Enlargement  of  130 

Heart  Failure  128 

Heart,  Fatty  131 

Heart,  Foetal  or  Baby 393 

Heart,  Pain  or  Aching  Around  4 

FIeart,  Pain  Streaking  from 4 

Heart,  Palpitation  of  129 

HEART  TROUBLES 32 

Fast  Heart 32 

Palpitation  32 

Weak  Heart 32 

Heart  and  Valves,  Description  of 127 

Heartburn  of  Pregnant  Women  392 

Heartburn,  Salt  for 438 

Heat  Exhaustion  197 

Heat,  Prickly  238,  431 

Heatstroke  32,  197 

Hectic  Cheeks i 

Heel  and  Foot,  Neuralgia  of 192 

Hellebore,  Poisoning  by  271 

Hemicrania 187 

Hemlock,  Poisoning  by  271 

Hemlock  Tree 329 

Hemorrhage  (See  “ Bleeding  from  Stom- 
ach and  Lungs.”)  33 

Hemorrhage  in  Labor  397 

Hemorrhage,  Lemons  for  439 

Hemorrhage,  Salt  for  438 

LIemophylia  137 

PIemorrhoids  16S 

Henbane 329 

Henbane,  Poisoning  by  271 

Herb  Department 3^4 

Herb  Remedies  (See  “Separate  Index.”)  305 
Herbs,  Gathering  and  Drying 304 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EA4ERGENCTES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


4r>:> 


Herbs,  How  Made  into  Medicines 304 

Hereditary  Chorea  200 

HERNIA  265 

Irreducible  265 

Reducible  265 

Strangulated 265 

Herpes-Zoster  235 

Hiccough  33 

High  Cranberry  330 

Hip  Bone  and  Navel,  Pain  Between.  . . 4 

Hip,  Fracture  of 39 

Hip  Joint  Disease 264 

Hip  Joint,  Tuberculosis  of  264 

History  of  Insanity  209 

Hives  238,  434 

Hives,  Salt  for 438 

Hoarseness,  Colds  and  Coughs  98 

Hoarseness,  Borax  for  440 

Hoarseness,  Lemons  for 439 

Hodgkin's  Disease 140 

Holloway's  Ointment  294 

Hollyhock  330 

Home  Medicine  Chest  7 

Homeopathic  Medicines  for  Home  Medi- 
cine Chest  7 

Home  Remedies,  Uses  of 438 

Hop  Bitters  294 

Hops 330 

Hordeolum  245 

Horehound  331 

Horse  Chestnut 331 

Horseradish  331 

Hostetter's  Bitters  293 

How  and  When  to  Make  a Person 

Sweat  17 

How  TO  Conceive  and  Bear  Healthy 

Children  390 

How  TO  Make  Patient  Comfortable  in 

Bed 9 

Humerus,  Fracture  of 37 

Huntington's  Chorea 200 

Hu  NY  ADI  Janos  Water 293 

Husband,  Choosing  a 389 

Hydrocephalus  (See  “ Water  on  Brain.")  71 

Hydrochloric  Acid,  Poisoning  by 267 

Hydrocyanic  Acid,  Poisoning  by 274 

Hydrophobia  33,  90 

Hyoscyamus,  Poisoning  by  271 

Hyperemia,  Acute  177 

Hypertrophic  Cirrhosis  171 

Hysteria  19,  194 


I 


Icterus  Neonatorum  174 

Idiocy 210 

Ileo-Colttis  of  Childhood 163 

Ileum-Colon,  Inflammation  of 163 

Illusion  209 

Imbecility  210 


Imperial  Granum  

Impetigo  

Incontinence  of  Urine 

Indian  Poke,  Poisoning  by 

Indian  Remedies  

Indian  Turnip 

Indigestion  and  Dyspepsia 

Infant,  Jaundice  of  New-born 

Infantum,  Cholera 

INFFCTIOUS  AND  CONTAGIOUS 

DISFASFS  

Nursing  in 

Bed  Linen,  Towels,  Ftc 

Care  to  be  Taken 

Dishes  

Isolation  and  Disinfection  in 

Spitting  Cups  and  Gauze  Handker- 
chiefs   

Urine  and  Feces  

Inflamed  Fyes  

Inflamed  Prostrate  Gland  

Inflammation  of  Appendix  (Appendici- 
tis)   

Inflammation  of  Bile  Ducts 

Inflammation  of  Bladder  

Inflammation  of  Intestines  or  Bowels 

Inflammation  of  Far 

Inflammation  of  Fyelids  

Inflammation  of  Fallopian  Tubes  .... 
Inflammation  of  Gall  Bladder,  Acute 

Inflammation  of  Gullet  

Inflammation  OF  Ileum-colon  

Inflammation  of  Iris  

Inflammation  of  Kidneys  

Inflammation  of  Larynx  

Inflammation  of  Liver  

Inflammation  of  Lungs  

Inflammation  of  Middle  Far 

Inflammation  of  Ovaries  

Inflammation  of  Pancreas  

Inflammation  of  Peritoneum  

Inflammation  of  Pleura  

Inflammation  of  Small  Intestines  ... 

Inflammation  of  Stomach  

Inflammation  of  Vagina  

Inflammation  of  Vulva  

Inflammation  of  Vulvo-Vaginal 

Glands  

Inflammation  of  Womb,  Acute  

Inflammation  of  Womb,  Chronic  .... 
Inflammatory  Rheumatism,  Acute  ... 
Inflammatory  Rheumatism  (Nursing) 

Inflammations  

Influenza  

Infusions,  Teas  or  

Ingrowing  Toe  Nails  

Inherited  Insanity  

Injections  (See  “Internal  Baths.") 

Inky  or  Bluish  Lips  and  Tongue 

Insane,  General  Paralysis  of 


42 

233 

186 

271 

305 

331 

143 

174 

157 


45 

15 

15 

15 

16 
16 


16 

16 

242 

343 


164 
171 
185 

162 

248 

242 

381 

173 

162 

163 
244 
178 

III 

170 

117 

264 

382 

174 

165 

121 

162 

143 

373 

369 


369 

379 


380 

65 

18 

17 

59 

304 

237 

209 

14 

I 

202 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  ..... 
POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


456 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


INSANITY  

Acquired  

Classification  of 

Definitions  of  

Delusion  

Dementia  

General  Paresis  

Hallucination  

History  of  

Idiocy  

Illusion  

Imbecility  

Inherited  

Mania  

Melancholia  

Paranoia  

Insects,  Bites  and  Stings  of 

Insipidus,  Diabetes  

Insomnia  

Insufficiency,  Pulmonary  

Intercostal  Neuralgia 

Intermittent  Fever 

Internal  Antiseptic,  Salt  as 

Internal  Baths  

Internal  or  Bleeding  Piles  

Intertrigo  

Intestinal  Obstruction  » . 

Intestines,  Diseases  of 

Intestines,  Inflammation  of  

Intussusception  

Iodine,  Poisoning  by  

Iritis  

Iris,  Inflammation  of 

Iron  WOOD  

IsCHIO-RECTAL  AbSCESS  

Isolation  or  Thermic  Fever 

Isolation  in  Contagious  Diseases 

Itch  

Itch,  Barber’s  

Itching  Piles  

Itching  of  Vulva  

Ivy  Poisoning  


208 

209 
209 
209 

209 

210 
210 
209 

209 

210 

209 

210 

209 

210 

209 

210 
21 

217 

196 

134 

191 

85 

438 

14 

167 

233 

165 

143 

162 

165 

272 

244 

244 

332 

167 


....  234 

....  234 
....  168 
....  370 

230,  272 


Joint,  Tuberculosis  of  Hip  264 

Joint,  Tuberculosis  of  Knee  264 

Joints,  Pains  and  Aches  in  5 

Joints  and  Spine,  Tuberculosis  of 73 

Juice,  Beef  41 

Juniper  332 

Junkets  41 


K 

Keeley  Cure 294 

Kendall’s  Spavin  Cure  294 

Kennedy’s  Medical  Discovery  295 

KEROSENE  OIL,  USES  OF  439 

Colds  440 

Croup  44.0 

Dandruff  440 

Diphtheria  440 

Lice  440 

Poisoning  440 

Quinsy  440 

Rheumatism  439 

Sore  Lungs  440 

Toothache  440 

Kickapoo  Indian  Oil  295 

Kidney,  Abscess  of  181 

Kidney  Colic  Compared  with  Other 

Diseases  6 

Kidneys  and  Bladder,  Diseases  of 176 

Kidneys  and  Bladder,  Home  Remedies 

FOR  182 

Kidneys,  Bladder  and  Urine 391 

Kidneys,  Chronic  Congestion  of 177 

Kidneys,  Congestion  of  177 

Kidneys,  Inflammation  of  178 

Kidneys,  Pains  Running  from  4 

Kidneys,  Stone  in  180 

King’s  New  Discovery 294 

Knee  Joint,  Tuberculosis  of 264 

Knee,  Pain  in 5 

Knock  Knees  264 

Kohler’s  One  Night  Corn  Cure 294 


J 


L 


Jaundice  

Jaundice,  Chronic  

Jaundice,  Lemons  tor  

Jaundice  of  New-born  Infant 

Jaw,  Dislocation  of  

Jaw,  Fracture  of  Lower 

Jaw,  Locked  

Jaw,  Lump  

Jayne’s  Expectorant  

Jelly,  Barley  

Jelly,  Oat  

Jelly,  Rice  

Jelly,  Wheat  

Joint  Diseases 

Joint  Disease,  Hip 


171 

173 

439 

174 

40 

39 


87 

88 


. ..  294 

41,  42 

...  42 
...  42 
. . . 42 
. . . 264 
. . . 264 


LABOR  393 

Breech  Presentation  394 

Caution  397 

Delivery  of  Afterbirth  or  Placenta...  396 

Delivery  of  Child  396 

Diseases  Attending  and  Following 397 

Dressing  and  Tying  Cord  396 

Duration  of  394 

First  Stage  of 394 

Hemorrhage  or  Bleeding  397 

Pains  394 

Premature  (See  “Abortion.”)  400 

Preparations  for  393 

Presentation  394 

Laceration  of  Neck  of  Womb 377 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


457 


Lady^s  Slipper  332 

La  Grippe  59 

Landry's  Paralysis 204 

Laryngitis,  Acute  Catarrhal  iii 

Laryngeal  Diphtheria  (See  “Diph- 
theria.”)   45 

Laryngitis,  (Edematous  112 

Laryngitis,  Spasmodic  108,  112 

Larynx,  Inflammation  of  iii 

Lateral  Sclerosis 204 

Later  Symptoms  of  Pregnancy 393 

Laudanum,  Poisoning  by  273 

Laurel  333 

Laxative  Bromo-Quinine  Tablets 295 

Lead,  Poisoning  by  272 

Lead,  Sugar  of — Poisoning  by  272 

Leg,  Milk  398 

Legs,  Pains  and  Aches  in  5 

Legs  and  Feet,  Bloating  of 2 

Lemon  333 

LEMONS,  USES  OF  439 

Antidote  439 

Asthma  439 

Biliousness  439 

Colds  439 

Corns  439 

Coughs  and  Hoarseness  439 

Erysipelas  439 

Fevers  439 

Headache  439 

Hemorrhage  439 

Jaundice  439 

Rheumatism  and  Gout 439 

Scurvy  439 

Sore  Throat  and  Diphtheria 439 

Syphilis  439 

Tan  and  Freckles  439 

Vomiting  439 

Leprosy  ^ 

Lettuce  333 

Leucorrhea 371 

Leukemia  137 

Lice  241 

LrcE,  Body  241 

Lice,  Kerosene  for  440 

Lifting  and  Carrying  Patient 10 

Lily  of  the  Valley  334 

Lime  Water  42 

Lime  Water  in  Milk  408,  409 

Lime,  Chloride  of  (Disinfectant) 12 


LINIMENTS  

Arthritic 

Asthma  

Asthma  and  Pneumonia 

British  Oil  

Camphor  

Camphor  and  Onion  . . . 

Camphorated  

Cayenne  

Chloroform  


275,  305 

....  279 

. ...  279 

280 

....  278 


275 


278 


277 

278 
276 


LINIMENTS — Continued. 

Compound  Camphor  277 

Cook’s  Electric  Magnetic  277 

Cramp  278 

Cure-All  276 

Diuretic  for  Kidney  and  Bladder  Trou- 
bles   278 

Dr.  Raymond’s  276 

Dr.  Ritter’s  279 

Dr.  White’s  278 

Dr.  Vicker’s  Celebrated  Embrocation.  279 

Electric  279 

For  Burns  278 

For  Colds  and  Neuralgia  279 

For  Ladies  278 

For  Man  or  Beast  275 

For  Old  Sores  276 

For  Spinal  Affections  277 

Four  Oil  279 

German  276 

German  Rheumatic  Fluid  276 

Giles’s  276 

Golden  Oil  for  Rheumatism  275 

Golden  Oil  or  Strong  Camphor  278 

Good  Samaritan 276 

Great  London  277 

Gum  277 

Hamlin’s  Wizard  Oil  275 

Hartshorn 278 

Iodine  and  Ammonia 275 

Kerosene  277 

Lightning  276 

Lime  and  Oil 277 

Lobelia  and  Cayenne  277 

Magnetic  279 

Mexican  Mustang  278 

Mustang  275 

Nerve  Liniment  and  Pain  Killer 280 

Nye’s  277 

Oil  of  Gladness 275 

Oriental  Balm  275 

Perry  Davis’s  Pain  Killer 275 

Pleurisy  280 

Radway’s  Ready  Relief  (R.  R.  R.) 276 

Saltpeter  275 

Simple  279 

Soap  Liniment  with  Soap^ 277 

Soap  Liniment  with  Spanish  Flies  . . . 277 

Soap  Liniment  without  Soap 277 

Solon  Day’s  279 

St.  Jacob’s  Oil  278 

St.  John’s  277 


The  Best 276 

Vinegar  and  Camphor  278 

Whooping  Cough 279 

Lip,  Cancer  of 262 

Lip,  Hare  ♦ 263 

Lips  and  Tongue,  Bluish  or  Inky i 

Lithuria  184 


I 

8 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS 

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


458 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


LIVER,  DISEASES  OF  170 

Abscess  of  170 

Acute  Yellow  Atrophy  of 171 

Amyloid  171 

Cancer  of  171 

Cirrhosis  of 171 

Cirrhosis  or  Hardening  of  Capsule  of  171 

Congestion  of  I74 

Enlargement  and  Hardening  of  171 

Inflammation  of  170 

Tuberculosis  of  73 

Tumors  of  171 

Liver,  Description  and  Location  of  . . . 170 
Liver  and  Ribs,  Pain  Under 4 


Liver  Spots  238 

Liverwort 334 

Lobelia  334 

Local  Tuberculosis  71 

Location  and  Description  of  Gall 

Bladder 170 

Location  and  Description  of  Pancreas  170 

Lockjaw  87 

Locomotor  Ataxia  202 

Loss  of  Speech  201 

Loss  of  Voice  201 

Lower  Jaw,  Fracture  of  39 

Lues •• 361 

Lumbago  18,  214 

Lump  Jaw  88 

Lunar  Caustic,  Poisoning  by 272 

Lung  Fever 117 

Lungs,  Bleeding  from  120 

Lungs.,  Inflammation  of 117 

Lungs,  Kerosene  for  Sore  440 

Lungs,  Pains  or  Aches  in  4 

Lungs,  Pneumonic  Tuberculosis  of  . . 72 

Lungs,  Salt  for  Bleeding  from  438 

Lungs,  Ulcerative  Tuberculosis  of  . . . 73 

Lydia  Pinkham’s  Vegetable  Compound  295 

Lye,  Poisoning  by  268 

Lymph  Glands,  Tuberculosis  of 71 

Lyon’s  Kathairon  295 


M 

Madam  Ruppert’s  Face  Bleach  296 

Magnetic  Liniment 296 

Making  Preparation  for  the  Baby...  415 

MALARIAL  FEVERS  85 

Intermittent  or  Ague  85 

Pernicious  85 

Relapsing  85 

Remittent  85 

Malignant  Growths  262 

Malignant  Growths  in  Gall  Bladder.  174 

Malta  Fever 88 

Malvina  Cream  296 

Malvina  Lotion  296 

Mandrake  335 

Mania  210 


Mania  a Potu 207 

Marigold  335 

Married  Women,  Chapter  for 389 

Marry,  Who  Should  Not  389 

Masha  Fever 88 

Mastoid  Disease  248,  264 

Matches,  Poisoning  by  273 

Measles  19,  52,  435 

Measles  Compared  with  Other  Diseases  6 

Measles,  German 54,  436 

Measures  and  Weights  for  Medicines  9 

Meat  Pulp  41 

Medicine  Chest,  What  It  Should  Con- 
tain   7 

Medicine,  Doses  of  for  Various  Ages..  8 
Medicines,  Allopathic — For  Home 

Medicine  Chest  7 

Medicines,  Allopathic — External  7 

Medicines,  Allopathic — Internal  7 

Medicines,  Allopathic — For  Poisoning  7 
Medicines,  Homeopathic— For  Home 

Medicine  Chest  7 

Medicines,  How  Herbs  are  Made  into.  304 

Medicines,  Patent  286 

Medicines,  Tables  of  Weights  and 

Measures  for 9 

Medicines,  The  Giving  of 16 

Medicines  for  Tuberculosis 75 

Melancholia  209 

Mellitus,  Diabetes  216 

Membranes  of  Brain,  Tumors  of 201 

Membranous  Croup  45,  108,  431 

Men,  a Chapter  for 359 

Meningitis,  Basilar  71 

Meningitis,  Cerebro-Spinal  61 

Meningitis,  General  202 

Meningitis,  Spinal  204 

Meningitis,  Tubercular  71 

Menorrhagia  366 

Menses,  Absence  of  364 

Menses,  Acute  Suppression  of  365 

Menses,  Cessation  or  Stopping  of 391 

Menstrual  Flow,  Excessive 366 

Menstruation,  Disorders  of 364 

Menstruation,  Painful  and  Difficult  367 

Menstruation,  Scanty  366 

Mercury,  Poisoning  by  Bichloride  of.  . 270 

Metrorrhagia  268 

Mexican  Mustang  Liniment  296 

Micajah’s  Medicated  Uterine  Wafers.  2^ 

Middle  Ear,  Inflammation  of  264 

Migraine  187 

Miliary  Tuberculosis,  Acute  70 

Milk,  Boiled  408 

Milk,  Condensed  410 

Milk,  Cow’s  409,  410 

Milk  Crust  (See  “Eczema.”) 233,433 

Milk,  Fats  and  Proteids  in  408,  412 

Milk,  Human  407 

Milk,  Increasing  Supply  of  405 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  i 

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES  8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


459 


Milk  Leg  398 

Milk,  Lime  Water  in  408,  409 

Milk,  Pasteurized  408 

Milk,  Peptonized  409 

Milk,  Skimmed  412 

Milk,  Soda  in  409 

Milk,  Sterilized  408 

Milk,  Top  408 

Milk  Weed  336 

Miscarriage  (See  “Abortion.”) 400 


Mitral  Stenosis  

Mitral  Valve  Incompetency 

Mixture,  Cream  and  Rice 

Moles  and  Birthmarks  

Monkshood  ..; 

Morbilli  

Morbus,  Cholera  

Morbus  Coxarius  

Morning  Sickness  

Morphine,  Poisoning  by  

Mortification  

Mother  and  Her  Baby,  All  About  the 

(See  “Separate  Index.”)  

Motherwort  

Mouth  and  Nose,  Growths  in  

Mouth  and  Teeth,  Cleansing 


134 

133 

43 

431 

268 

52 

158 

264 


391 

273 


236 


403 

336 

263 

II 


MOUTH,  DISEASES  OF 256 

Bad  Breath  260 

Bleeding  from  4 

Cancrum  Oris 258 

Cancers  and  Ulcers  256 

Gangrenous  Sore 258 

Noma  258 

• Nursing.  Sore  259 

Sore  256,  425 

Stomatitis  256 

Teething  260 

Thrush  259 

Toothache  259 

Mouth,  Frothing  at 3 

Mouth  Wash  12 

Mouth  Wash,  Salt  as  438 

Mullein  336 

Multiple  Neuritis 206 

Mumps  54 

Muriatic  Acid,  Poisoning  by 267 

Muscles  of  Back,  Pain  in 5 

Muscles  of  Chest,  Pain  in 4 

Muscular  Rheumatism 214 

Mushrooms,  Poisoning  by  272 

Mustard 337 

Mustard  Foot  Baths  14 

Mutton  Broth 41 

Mycetoma  88 

Myelitis,  Acute  Anterior  Polio 203 

Myelitis,  Chronic  Anterior  Polio 203 

Myelitis,  Transverse  204 

Myxedema  141 


N 


Nasal  Catarrh,  Chronic  106 

Nausea  147 

Nausea  and  Vomiting 391 

Navel  and  Hip  Bone,  Pain  Between.  . . 4 

Navel,  Bleeding  from  419 

Neck,  Aching  in  Nape  of  4 

Neck  and  Head,  Neuralgia  of  191 

Neck  and  Head,  Ringworm  of 236 

Neck  and  Shoulder,  Neuralgia  of 191 

Neck,  Continued  Stiffness  of  4 

Neck  Glands,  Tuberculosis  of  71 

Neck,  Stiff  215 

Neonatorum,  Icterus  174 

Nephritis,  Acute  178 

Nephritis,  Chronic  178 

Nephro-Lithiasis  180 

Nerve  and  Bone  Liniment 297 

Nervous  Exhaustion  195 

Nervous  Headache 189 

Nervous  Prostration 19 

Nervous  System,  Diseases  of 187 

Nervous  Troubles,  Neuralgia  and 192 

Nettle 337 

Nettle  Rash  238,  434 


NEURALGIA  191 

of  Face 191 

Tri-Facial  191 

Tic-Douloureux  191 

Spasmodic,  of  Face  191 

Prosopalgia  191 

of  Head  and  Neck 191 

Cervico-Occipital  191 

of  Neck  and  Shoulder 191 

Cervico-Brachial  191 

Underneath  Ribs  191 

Intercostal  191 

of  Lower  Part  of  Spine  192 

Coccydynia 192 

of  Heel  and  Foot  192 

of  Stomach 146 

and  Headache 19 

and  Nervous  Troubles,  Home  Remedies 

for  192 

Salt  for  438 

Neuralgic  Headache 188 

Neurasthenia  195 

Neuritis 205 

Neuritis,  Multiple  206 

Neuritis,  Peripheral  206 

Neurosis  13c 

New-born  Infant,  Jaundice  of 174 

Nicotine,  Poisoning  by 274 

Night  Gown,  To  Change  on  Patient..  9 

Nightshade,  Poisoning  by 269 

Night  Sweats  227 

Nipples,  Care  of  406 

Nipples,  Sore 399,  404 

Nipples,  Cracked  404 


I 

8 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


460 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Nitrate  of  Silver,  Poisoning  by 272 

Nocturnal  Emissions 362 

Noma  258 

Nose,  Bleeding  from  4,  33 

Nose,  Diseases  of  249 

Nose,  Fracture  of  40 

Nose,  Growths  in  249 

Nose,  Polypi  in 249 

Nose,  Things  in 34 

Nose  in  Different  Diseases 3 

Nose  and  Eyes,  Discharges  from 4 

Nose  and  Mouth,  Growths  in  263 

Nostras,  Cholera 158 

Nostrils  3 

Nurse,  Qualities  of  a Good i 

Nursing  Department  i 

Nursing  and  Feeding 403 

Nursing  Infants,  Vomiting  in 410 

Nursing,  Painful  404 

Nursing  Sore  Mouth 259,  407 

Nursing,  Vomiting  After  405 

NURSING  VARIOUS  DISEASES  ...  16 

Appendicitis,  Peritonitis,  etc 18 

Bronchitis  or  Croup  Tent 18 

Bronchitis,  Pleurisy  and  Pneumonia...  18 
Contagious  and  Infectious  Diseases  ...  15 

Corn  Sweat  17 

Dysentery  and  Diarrhea  19 

Earache  19 

Feeding  16 

Headache  and  Neuralgia  19 

How  and  When  to  Make  a Person 

Sweat  17 

Inflammations  17 

Lumbago,  Sciatica  and  Inflammatory 

Rheumatism  18 

Measles  19 

Nervous  Prostration  and  Hysteria  ...  19 

Scarlet  Fever  19 

Sore  Throat  18 

The  Giving  of  Medicines  16 

Typhoid  Fever  19 

Nux  Vomica,  Poisoning  by  274 


O 


OINTMENTS  281,  304 

Carbolic  282 

Catarrh  282 

Elder  Flower  282 

For  Chilblains  and  Frostbites  283 

For  Itch  and  Ringworm 282 

For  Itch,  Scrofulous  Ulcers  and  Scald- 

head  283 

For  Itching  282 

For  Piles  and  Skin  Diseases 283 

For  Shingles  and  Skin  Diseases  283 

For  Tumors,  Caked  Breasts  and 

Bruises  282 

Herb  and  Turpentine  282 

Magnetic  282 

Pile  282 

Ringworm  282 

Simple  281 

Spanish  Fly 282 

Spermaceti  283 

Sweet  Clover  282 

Tar  282 

Tetter  282 

Trask’s  282 

Wood  Soot  282 

Zinc  282 

Onion  338 

Operations  on  Clitoris  265 

Operations  262 

Operations — Deformities,  Malignant 

Growths  and 262 

Opium,  Poisoning  by 273 

Orange  Blossom  297 

Orchitis  (See  “Gonorrhea.”)  359 

Organs,  Description  of  Respiratory...  95 
Organs  of  Circulation,  Diseases  of.  . . 127 

Oris,  Cancrum  258 

Our  Boys  and  Girls  383 

Ovarian  Cysts  383 

Ovaries  and  Tubes,  Tumors  of  263 

Ovaries,  Description  of 382 

Ovaries,  Diseases  of 382 

Ovaries,  Inflammation  of  382 

Ovaritis  382 

Oxalic  Acid,  Poisoning  by  272 

Oxide  of  Bismuth,  Poisoning  by 269 


Oak  Poisoning  230,  272 

Oat  Jelly  42 

Oatmeal  Water  42 

Obesity  216 

Obstruction,  Intestinal  165 

CEdema  Glottis  112 

CEdematous  Laryngitis  112 

Oil  of  Cedar,  Poisoning  by 273 

Oil  of  Gladness  297 

Oil  of  Joy  297 

Oil  of  Rue,  Poisoning  by 273 

Oil  of  Savin,  Poisoning  by 273 

Oil  of  Tansy,  Poisoning  by  273 


P 


Padagra  215 

Padding  36 

Page’s  Liquid  Glue 298 

Pain  in  Abdomen  18 

Pain  Around  Heart  4 

Pain  Between  Navel  and  Hip  Bone...  4 

Pain  in  Breathing  4 

Pain  in  Back  Part  of  Thigh  and  Leg 

TO  Foot  5 

Pain  in  Band  Around  Abdomen  Below 
Waist  4 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  i 

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES  8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


461 


Pain  in  Knee  5 

Pain  in  Passing  Urine 5 

Pain  in  Stomach  4 

Pain  in  Stomach  and  Radiating  to 

Backbone  4 

Pain  on  Right  Side  Under  Ribs  and 

Liver  4 

Pain  Running  from  Kidney  to  Bladder 

AND  Groin  4 

Pain  Under  Ribs  Near  Backbone  5 

Pain  Under  Right  Shoulder  Blade...  5 

Paine's  Celery  Compound  299 

Painful  Menstruation  367 

Painful  Nursing  404 

Pains,  Labor  394 

PAINS  AND  ACHES,  TABLE  OF...  4 

In  Forehead  4 

Over  Eyebrows  • . 4 

In  Top  Part  of  Head  4 

In  Temples  4 

In  Nape  of  Neck  4 

In  Lungs  4 

In  Muscles  of  Chest  4 

Under  Edge  of  Ribs 4 

In  Band  Around  Chest 4 

In  Head  4 

In  Chest  4 

In  Abdomen  4 

In  Back  5 

In  Shoulder  5 

In  Legs  5 

In  Joints  5 

Palate,  Cleft  263 

Palate,  Swelling  or  Elongation  of  . . . 253 

Palpitation  of  Heart  129 

Palsy,  Shaking  205 

Panaratium  223 

Pancreas,  Description  and  Location  of  170 

Pancreas,  Diseases  of  170 

Pancreas,  Inflammation  of  174 

Pancreatitis  174 

Pang,  Breast  13 1 

Papilloma  371 

Paralysis,  Acute  Ascending 204 

Paralysis  Agitans  205 

Paralysis,  Bulbar  203 

Paralysis,  Landry’s  204 

Paralsis  of  Insane,  General  202 

Paralytica,  Dementia 202 

Paranoia  ....202,210 

Parasites,  Animal — Diseases  Due  to  239 

Paresis  202 

Paresis,  General  210 

Paris  Green,  Poisoning  by 268 

Paronychia  223 

P.^ROTiTis,  Epidemic  54 

Parry’s  Disease  141 

Parsley  338 

Partridge  Berry  3.-^8 

Pasteurized  Milk 408 


PATENT  MEDICINES  286 

Allen’s  Lung  Balsam  287 

Anti-Fat  286 

Arabian  Balsam  287 

Asceptin  287 

Ayer’s  Cherry  Pectoral  286 

Ayer’s  Hair  Vigor  286 

Ayer’s  Sarsaparilla  286 

Bareel’s  Indian  Liniment  287 

Barker’s  Bone  and  Nerve  Liniment  ..  287 

Bay  Rum  288 

Beecham’s  Pills  287 

“Big  G”  Injection  288 

Boschee’s  German  Syrup 288 

British  Oil  287 

Brown’s  Bronchial  Troches  288 

Bucklen’s  Arnica  Salve 288 

Camphor  Ice  289 

Carter’s  Little  Liver  Pills 288 

Castoria 289 

Chamberlain’s  Colic,  Cholera  and  Diar- 
rhea Remedy 289 

Chamberlain’s  Relief 289 

Coke  Dandruff  Cure 289 

Cuticura  Ointment  289 

Cuticura  Resolvent  289 

Egyptian  Eye  Salve  290 

Ely’s  Cream  Salve  290 

Espey’s  Cream  290 

Frostilla  290 

Gargling  Oil 290 

Genuine  W'hite  Oil  Liniment 290 

Giles’s  Iodide  of  Ammonia  Liniment..  291 

Gold  Cure  for  Drunkenness  292 

Gombault’s  Caustic  Balsam  291 

Good  Samaritan  Liniment  291 

Great  London  Liniment  291 

Green  Mountain  Salve  291 

Greene’s  Nervura  292 

Green’s  August  Flower  292 

Hall’s  Catarrh  Cure  292 

Hall’s  Hair  Renewer  293 

Hamburg  Tea  292 

Hamlin’s  Wizard  Oil  293 

Hanson’s  Magic  Corn  Cure  293 

Harlem  Oil  293 

Holloway’s  Ointment 294 

Hop  Bitters  294 

Hostetter’s  Bitters 293 

Hunyadi  Janos  Water  293 

Jayne’s  Expectorant  294 

Keeley  Cure  (See  “Gold  Cure.”)  292 

Kendall’s  Spavin  Cure 294 

Kennedy’s  Medical  Discovery 295 

Kickapoo  Indian  Oil  295 

King’s  New  Discovery 294 

Kohler’s  One  Night  Corn  Cure  294 

Laxative  Bromo-Quinine  Tablets  295 

Liniment  for  Man  and  Beast 295 

Lydia  Pinkham’s  Vegetable  Compound  295 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS 

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES 266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


■m 


PATENT  MEDICINES— Continued. 

Lyon’s  Kathairon  295 

Madam  Rupert’s  Face  Bleach  296 

Magnetic  Liniment  296 

Malvina  Cream 296 

Malvina  Lotion  296 

Mexican  Mustang  Liniment 296 

Micajah’s  Medicated  Uterine  Wafers.  296 

Nerve  and  Bone  Liniment  297 

Oil  of  Gladness  297 

Oil  of  Joy  297 

Orange  Blossom 297 

Page’s  Liquid  Glue  298 

Paine’s  Celery  Compound 299 

Perry  Davis’s  Pain  Killer  298 

Peruna  298 

Pettit’s  Eye  Salve  297 

Pierce’s  Favorite  Prescription 298 

Pink  Pills  for  Pale  People  298 

Piso’s  Cure  for  Consumption  299 

Radway’s  Pills  299 

Radway’s  Ready  Relief 299 

Royal  Catarrh  Cure  299 

Sage’s  Catarrh  Remedy 301 

Seidlitz  Powders  300 

Seven  Barks  300 

Seven  Sutherland  Sisters’  Hair  Grower  301 

Shiloh’s  Consumption  Cure  300 

Skinner’s  Dandruff  Mixture  300 

Smith  Bros.  Cough  Drops  302 

St.  Jacob’s  Oil  301 

St.  John’s  Liniment 301 

“ Sun  ” Cholera  Cure  300 

Swift’s  Syphilitic  Specific 302 

Syrup  of  Figs 301 

Thompson’s  Eye  Water 302 

Trask’s  Magnetic  Ointment 302 

Van  Buskirk’s  Fragrant  Sozodont 302 

Warner’s  Safe  Cure  303 

Wherrell  Treatment  (See  “Gold 

Cure.”)  292 

PATIENT,  HOW  TO  MAKE  COM- 
FORTABLE IN  BED  9 

Bed  Pan  and  How  to  Use  It ii 

Changing  Night  Gown  9 

How  to  Move  from  One  Bed  to  An- 
other   10 

Prevention  and  Care  of  Bed  Sores. ...  ii 

To  Cleanse  the  Mouth  and  Teeth ii 

To  Change  Under  Sheet  10 

To  Draw  Up  in  Bed  10 

To  Lift  and  Carry  when  Sitting 10 

To  Place  in  Chair  il 

To  Set  Up  in  Bed  ii 

Patient — Temperature,  Pulse  and  Res- 
piration OF  15 

Patient,  To  Wash  Hair  of 13 

Peach  Tree 339 

Pectoris,  Angina  131 

Pemphigus  237 


Pennyroyal  339 

Peppermint  339 

Peptonized  Milk  409 

Pericarditis  131 

Pericardium,  Tuberculosis  of 72 

Peripheral  Neuritis  206 

Peritoneum,  Inflammation  of  165 

Peritoneum,  Tuberculosis  of  72 

Peritonitis,  Acute  165 

Peritonitis,  Directions  for  Nursing...  18 

Pernicious  Anemia  137 

Pernicious  Fever  85 

Perry  Davis’s  Pain  Killer  298 

Pertussis  96 

Peruna  298 

Pettit’s  Eye  Salve  297 

Pharyngitis  254 

Pharyngitis,  Chronic  256 

Phlegmasia  Alba  Doleus 398 

Phosphorus,  Poisoning  by 237 

Physician’s  Signs  and  Abbreviations.  9 

Pierce’s  Favorite  Prescription  298 

Piles  264 

Piles,  Blind  167 

Piles,  External  167 

Piles,  Home  Remedies  for  168 

Piles  in  Pregnant  Women  392 

Piles,  Internal  or  Bleeding  167 

Piles,  Itching  168 

Pimples  232 

Pin  Worms  239 

Pink  Pills  for  Pale  People  298 

Pink  Root  340 

Piso’s  Cure  for  Consumption  299 

Placenta,  Delivery  of  396 

Plague,  Bubonic  82 

Plan  of  Circulation 127 

Plantain  340 

Pleura,  Inflammation  of 121 

Pleura,  Tuberculosis  of  72 

Pleurisy  18,  121 

Pleurisy  Root  340 

Plumbum,  Poisoning  by  272 

Pneumonia  18,  117 

Pneumonia,  Broncho  116 

Pneumonic  Tuberculosis  of  Lungs 72 

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266 

Acetic  Acid  267 

Aconite  268 

Alcohol  268 

Ammonia  Water  268 

Antimony  268 

Arsenate  of  Copper  268 

Arsenic  268 

Arsenious  Acid  268 

Atropia  269 

Atropine  269 

Belladonna  269 

Bichloride  of  Mercury 270 

Bismuth  Oxide  269 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


463 


POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES— Con- 
tinued. 

Bismuth  Subnitrate  269 

• Black  Hellebore 271 

Bluestone  269 

Blue  Vitriol  269 

Camphor  270 

Cantharides  269 

Cartharis  269 

Carbolic  Acid  269 

Caustic  Potash  268 

Chloral  Hydrate  270 

Cobalt  270 

Codeine  273 

Conium  271 

Corrosive  Sublimate  270 

Creosote  269 

Deadly  Nightshade  269 

Digitalis  270 

Fly  Poison 270 

Foods  (Cheese,  Meats  and  Canned 

Goods)  271 

Fool’s  Parsley  271 

Fowler’s  Solution  of  Arsenic  268 

Foxglove  270 

Gas  (Illuminating,  Fuel  or  Coal) 271 

Hellebore  271 

Hemlock  271 

Henbane  271 

Hydrochloric  Acid  267 

Hydrocyanic  Acid 274 

Hyoscyamus  271 

Iodine  272 

Indian  Poke  271 

Ivy  230,  272 

Laudanum  273 

Lead  272 

Lunar  Caustic  : 272 

Lye  268 

Matches  273 

Monkshood  268 

Morphine  273 

Muriatic  Acid 267 

Mushrooms  or  Toadstools 272 

Nicotine  274 

Nitrate  of  Silver  272 

Nitric  Acid  267 

Nux  Vomica  274 

Oak  272 

Oil  of  Cedar  273 

Oil  of  Rue  273 

Oil  of  Savin  273 

Oil  of  Tansy  273 

Opium  273 

Oxalic  Acid 272 

Pans  Green  268 

Phosphorus  273 

Plumbum  272 

Prussic  Acid  274 

Rat  Poison  273 

ACCIDENTS  AND  EMER'  lENCIES . . 20 

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266 


POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES— CoM- 
tinued. 

Rhus  Toxicodendron  272 

Rough  on  Rats  268 

Sabina  273 

Spanish  Flies  269 

Spirits  of  Hartshorn  268 

Stramonium  274 

Strychnine  274 

Sugar  of  Lead  272 

Sulphate  of  Copper  269 

Sulphuric  Acid  267 

Sumach  Berries  272 

Swamp  Hellebore  271 

Tartar  Emetic  268 

Thorn  Apple 274 

Tobacco  274 

Wolfsbane  268 

Verdigris  269 

Poisoning  35,  266 

Poisoning,  Acid  or  Corrosive  266 

Poisoning,  Blood  81 

Poisoning,  Kerosene  for  440 

Poisoning,  Oak  (See'^Ivy  Poisoning.”)  230 

Poke  Root  340 

Poke,  Indian — Poisoning  by  271 

Polio  Myelitis,  Acute  Anterior 203 

Polio  Myelitis,  Chronic  Anterior 203 

Polyneuritis  206 

Polypi  249 

Posterior  Spinal  Sclerosis  202 

Potash,  Caustic — Poisoning  by  268 

POULTICES  283 

Bran  284 

Charcoal  283 

Corn  Meal  284 

Cranberry  284 

Flaxseed  284 

For  Offensive  Ulcers  284 

Hop  284 

Lobelia  283 

Mullein  284 

Poke  Root  284 

Slippery  Elm 283 

Soothing  283 

Spice  284 

Stimulating  283 

Thorn  Apple  284 

Yeast  284 

Powder  and  Paste,  Tooth 261 

Powders  285,  304 

Pregnancy 390 

Pregnancy,  Dropsy  During  397 

Pregnancy,  Signs  and  Symptoms  of...  391 
Pregnancy  and  Labor,  Diseases  At- 
tending AND  Following  397 

Pregnant  Women,  Dyspepsia  of  392 

Pregnant  Women,  Heartburn  of 392 

Pregnant  Women,  Piles  in  392 

Pregnant  Women,  Sour  Stomach  of  . . 392 

TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  i 

DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES  8 


464 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Premature  Labor  (See  “ Abortion.”)  • • 400 

Preparation  for  the  Baby  415 

Presentation  394 

Presentation,  Breech 394 

Prevention  and  Care  of  Bed  Sores  ....  ii 

Prevention  of  Disease  43 

Prevention  of  Conception  389 

Prickly  Ash  341 

Prickly  Heat  238,  431 

Primary  or  Essential  Anemia 136 

Prolapsus  Ani  166 

Prolapsus  Uteri  374 

Prosopalgia  191 

Prostrate  Gland,  Enlarged  or  Inflamed  363 

Prostration,  Nervous  19 

Proteids  and  Fats  in  Milk 408,  412 

Pruritis  Vulva  370 

Prussic  Acid,  Poisoning  by  274 

Pseudo  Croup 108 

Psoriasis  237 

Pterygium  245 

Puerperal  Fever  or  Infection  3^ 

Pulmonary  Insufficiency  134 

Pulmonary  Valve  Disease 134 

Pulp,  Meat  , 41 

Pulse  Rate  of  Baby  ’ 417 

Pulse,  Temperature  and  Respiration  of 

Patient  15 

Pumpkin  Seed 341 

Pupils  of  Eyes  3 

Purgative,  Salt  as  438 

Purifiers,  Blood  137 

Purpura  137 

Pyelitis  181 

Pyleo-Nephritis  181 

Pyemia  81 


Q 


Qualities  of  a Good  Nurse i 

Queen  of  the  Meadow 342 

Queen's  Delight  342 

Quickening  392 

Quinsy  250,  440 


Quinsy  Compared  with  Other  Diseases  5 

R 


Rabies  (Hydrophobia)  90 

Radway's  Pills  299 

Radway's  Ready  Relief  299 

Rash,  Blotchy  and  Muddy  i 

Rash,  Scarlet  Color  i 

Rash,  Scattered  Raised  Spots  with 

Whitish  Pimples  i 

Rash,  Spots  Containing  Water  and 

Pus  I 

Rash,  Nettle  434 


Rash,  Scarlet  48 

Rash,  Stomach  or  Tooth  434 

Rat  Poison,  Poisoning  by 273 

Rectum,  Bleeding  from  4 

Rectum,  Tumors  of 167 

Red  Cheek,  Single  i 

Red  Clover  343 

Red  or  Hectic  Cheeks  • i 

Red  Raspberry  314 

Regurgitation  13 1 

Relapsing  Fever  85 

Remedies,  Herb  305 

Remedies,  Uses  of  Simple  Home 438 

Remittent  Fever  85 

Renal  Calculus  180 

Renal  Colic  Compared  with  Other 
Diseases  6 


Respiration,  Temperature  and  Pulse  of 

Patient  15 

Respirations  of  Baby  417 

Respiratory  Organs,  Description  of...  95 

Restless  Baby 418 

Restoratives,  Hair  231 

Retention  of  Urine  183 

Retroflexion  of  Womb  376 

Retroversion  of  Womb  376 

Rheumatism  436 

Rheumatism,  Acute  Articular  65 

Rheumatism,  Acute  Inflammatory  18,  65 

Rheumatism,  Chronic  21 1 

Rheumatism,  Gonorrheal  362 

Rheumatism,  Home  Remedies  for  21 1 

Rheumatism,  Kerosene  for  439 

Rheumatism,  Muscular  214 

Rheumatism,  Sciatic  197 

Rheumatism  and  Gout,  Lemons  for..  439 

Rheumatic  Fever,  Acute 65 

Rhinitis,  Chronic  106 

Rhubarb  343 

Rhus  Toxicodendron,  Poisoning  by 272 

Ribs  and  Liver,  Pain  Under  4 

Ribs,  Fracture  of  39 

Ribs,  Pain  or  Aching  Under  4,  5 

Rice  Jelly  42 

Rice  Water  43 

Rice  and  Cream  Mixture  43 

Rickets  437 

Ringworm  236 

Roaches,  Borax  for  440 

Roseola  and  Scarlet  Fever  Compared  6 

Root  Parsley  342 

Rotheln  54 

Rough  on  Rats,  Poisoning  by  268 

Round  Worms  240 

Royal  Catarrh  Cure  299 

Rubella  54 

Rubeola  52 

Rue,  Poisoning  by  Oil  of  273 

Run-around  223 

Rupture  265 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


465 


S 


Sabina,  Poisoning  by  

Saffron  

Sage  

Sage's  Catarrh  Remedy 

Salpingitis  

SALT,  USES  OF  

Ague  

Antidote  

Catarrh  

Cholera  Morbus  

Colic  

Croup  

Diarrhea  and  Dysentery  

Dyspepsia  and  Stomach  Trouble 

Eye  Wash  

For  Bath  

Hair  Tonic  

Heartburn  

Hemorrhage  or  Bleeding  from  Stomach 

or  Lungs  

Hives  

Mouth  Wash 

Neuralgia,  Toothache,  Earache,  Etc.. 

Sore  Throat  

Sprains  and  Swellings  

Tonic,  Purgative,  Internal  Antiseptic 

and  External  Stimulant  

Tooth  Wash  

Worms  

Salt  Baths  

Salt  Rheum  

SALVES  

Black  Healing  

Carbolic  Salve  or  Balsam  

Effectual  Corn  

Felon  

For  Abscess,  Broken  Breasts  and 

Fever  Sores  

For  Chaps  and  Cracks  

For  Cracks,  Wounds  and  Pains  

For  Cuts,  Bruises  and  Corns  

For  Wounds,  Burns  and  Old  Sores  . . . 

Green  Mountain ; Also  White  

Green  Salve  or  Ointment  for  Ulcers 

and  Old  Sores  

Gunpowder  Salve  for  Chilblains  

Mother’s  

Onion  

Spice  Plaster  

Sarcoma  

Sarcomata  

Sassafras  

Sarsaparilla  

Savin,  Poisoning  by  Oil  of 

Scabies  

Scald-Head  (See  “Eczema  and  Ring- 
worm on  Head.”)  233, 

Scalds  and  Burns  


273 

343 

344 


301 

381 

438 

438 

438 

438 

438 

438 

438 

438 

438 

438 

438 

438 

438 


438 

438 

438 

438 

439 
438 


438 

438 

438 

14 

233 

2^ 

281 

280 

280 

280 


280 

280 

280 

280 

281 
281 


281 

280 

280 

281 
281 
218 
218 
344 
344 

273 

234 

236 

25 


Scarlet  Fever  19,  47,  436 

Scarlet  Fever  and  Roseola,  Comparison 

OF  6 

Scarlet  Rash  47 

Scarlatina  47 

Scanty  Menstruation  366 

Sciatic  Rheumatism  197 

Sciatica  18,  197 

Sclerosis,  Arterio  135 

Sclerosis,  Lateral  204 

Sclerosis,  Posterior  Spinal  202 

Scorbutus  142 

Scouring  Rush  345 

Scrofula  71 

Scurvy  142 

Scurvy,  Lemons  for 439 

Seasickness  148 

Seat  Worms  239 

Second  Stage  of  Labor  395 

Secondary  Anemia  136 

Seidlitz  Powders  300 

Seneca  Snake  Root  345 

Senna  345 

Septicemia  81 

Seven  Barks  300 

Seven  Sutherland  Sisters’  Hair 

Grower  301 

Shaking  Palsy  205 

Sheep  Sorrel  346 

Shiloh’s  Consumption  Cure 300 

Shingles  235 

Shock  36 

Shoulder,  Dislocation  of  40 

Shoulder,  Neuralgia  of  191 

Shoulder,  Pains  and  Aches  in  S 

Sick,  Foods  for  the 41 

Sick  Headache  187 

Sick  Headache,  Bilious  188 

Sickness  at  Stomach  147 

Sickness,  General  Signs  of  in  Baby...  418 

Sickness,  Green  136 

Sickness,  Morning  391 

Sickness,  Sea  148 

Sick  Room,  Ventilation  and  Tempera- 
ture OF  14 

Side,  Stitch  in  205 

Sight,  Film  on  245 

Signs  and  Abbreviations  Used  by 

Physicians  9 

Signs  and  Symptoms  of  Pregnancy  ...  391 

Silver,  Nitrate  of — Poisoning  by 272 

Simple  Home  Remedies,  Uses  of 438 

SiTZ  Bath  13 

Skimmed  Milk  412 

SKIN,  COLOR  OF  IN  DISEASES....  i 

Blui'^h  or  Inky  Lips  and  Tongue i 

Bronze  i 

Greenish  White  i 

Hectic  or  Red  Cheeks  i 

Paleness  of  i 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


46G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


SKIN,  COLOR  OF  IN  DISEASES— 

Continued. 

Purplish  I 

Sallow  Yellow  i 

Single  Red  Cheek  i 

Waxy  Pale  i 

Whiteness  of  i 

Yellow  I 

Skin  Diseases  218 

Skinner's  Dandruff  Mixture  300 

Skullcap  346 

Skunk  Cabbage  346 

Sleep  388 

Sleepless  Baby  418 

Sleeplessness  196 

Small  Intestines,  Inflammation  of..  162 

Small-pox  56 

Small-pox  Compared  with  Other  Dis- 
eases   6 

Smartweed  346 

Smith  Bros.'  Cough  Drops  302 

Smothering  36 

Snake  Head  347 

Society,  Goin-g  into  3^ 

Soda  Baths  14 

Soda  in  Milk  409 

Solomon’s  Seal  347 

Soothing  Syrups  418 

Sore  Eyes  420 

Sore  Lungs,  Kerosene  for  440 

Sore  Mouth  256,  425 

Sore  Mouth,  Gangrenous  258 

Sore  Mouth,  Nursing  259  407 

Sore  Nipples  399,  404 

Sore  Throat  18,  254,  429 

Sore  Throat,  Chronic  256 

Sore  Throat,  Lemons  for  439 

Sore  Throat,  Salt  for  439 

Sores  35 

Sour  Stomach  of  Pregnant  Women...  392 

Spanish  Flies,  Poisoning  by  269 

Spasm  of  Glottis  112 

Spasm  of  Gullet  162 

Spasms  35 

Spasmodic  Croup  108,  430 

Spasmodic  Laryngitis  108,  112 

Spasmodic  Neuralgia  of  Face 191 

Spearmint  348 

Speech,  Loss  of 201 

Spinal  Meningitis  204 

Spinal  Sclerosis,  Posterior  202 

Spine,  Neuralgia  of  Lower  Part  of...  192 

Spine  and  Joints,  Tuberculosis  of 73 

Spirits  of  Hartshorn,  Poisoning  by...  268 

Spitting  Cups  '. 16 

Spitting  Dark  Blood  2 

Spitting  Frothy  Red  Blood 2 

Spitting  Glairy  Mucus  2 

Spleen,  Diseases  of 140 

Splints  36 


Sponge  Baths  13 

Sporadic  Cholera  158 

Spotted  Fever 61 

Sprains  and  Swellings,  Salt  for 438 

Sprains  or  Strains,  Sprained  Back 

^Etc 35 

Stammering  201 

Stenosis  131 

Stenosis,  Aortic  133 

Stenosis,  Mitral  * 134 

Stenosis,  Tricuspid  134 

Sterilized  Milk  408 

Stiff  Neck  215 

Stimulant,  Salt  as  an  External 438 

Stings  36 

Stitch  in  the  Side  205 

Stomach  and  Bowel  Troubles  159 

Stomacfi  and  Intestines,  Diseases  of.  143 

Stomach  and  Womb,  Cancer  of  263 

Stomach,  Bloating  of  2 

Stomach,  Cancer  of  146,  263 

Stomach,  Chronic  Catarrh  of  143 

Stomach,  Inflammation  of 143 

Stomach,  Neuralgia  of 146 

Stomach,  Pain  in  4 

Stomach,  Salt  for  Bleeding  from 438 

Stomach,  Sickness  at  147 

Stomach  Troubles,  Salt  for  438 

Stomach,  Ulcer  of  (See  “Gastric  Ul- 
cers.”)   146 

Stomach  Rash  434 

Stomatitis  256 

Stone  in  Kidney , 180 

Stones,  Gall  173,  265 

Stools,  Bloody  and  Slimy  3 

Stools,  Frequent  3 

Stools,  Green  3,  41 1 

Stools,  Infrequent  3 

Stools,  Watery  3 

Stools,  Toad — Poisoning  by 272 

Stopping  of  Menses  391 

Stramonium,  Poisoning  by  274 

Strawberry  349 

Stricture  359 

Strychnine,  Poisoning  by  274 

St.  Jacob’s  Oil 301 

St.  John’s  Liniment  301 

St.  John's  Y'ort  348 

St.  Vitus’  Dance  199 

St.  Vitus’  Dance,  Hereditary  200 

Stye  245 

Subnttrate  of  Bismuth,  Poisoning  by  269 

Sugar  Diabetes  216 

Sugar  of  Lead,  Poisoning  by 272 

Sulphate  of  Copper,  Poisoning  by 269 

Sulphur  Baths  14 

Sulphuric  Acid.  Poisoning  by  267 

“Sun”  Cholera  Cure  300 

Sunburn  and  Tan  230 

Sunflower  349 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


4.67 


Sunstroke  36,  197 

Sumach  349 

Sumach  Brrries,  Poisoning  by 272 

Summary  of  Feeding  Rules  410 

Summer  Complaints  148 

Supra-Renal  Glands,  Disease  of 141 

Supplement 441 

Suppositories  305 

Suppuration  of  Bile  Ducts  i73 

Suppuration  of  Vulvo- Vaginal  Glands  369 

Suppression  of  Menses  365 

Suppression  of  Urine  183 

Swamp  Hellebore,  Poisoning  by  271 

Swamp  Snake  Root  350 

Sweat,  Corn  17 

Sweat,  How  and  When  to  Make  a 

Person  17 

Sweating  of  Feet  227 

Sweating  of  Head  419 

Sweats,  Night  227 

Sweet  Clover  350 

Sweet  Flag  350 

Swelling  of  Glottis  112 

Swelling  of  Palate  253 

Swelling,  White  264 

Swellings  at  Joints  3 

Swellings  in  Front  Part  of  Neck 3 

Swellings  at  Side  of  Jaw  in  Front  of 

Ear  3 

Swellings  Under  Jaw  3 

Swift’s  Syphilitic  Specific  302 

Sydenham’s  Chorfa  199 

Symptoms  of  Pregnancy  391,  393 

Symptoms,  Table  of  i 

Syphilis  361 

Syphilis,  Lemons  for 439 

Syrup  of  Figs 301 

Syrups  304 

System,  Diseases  of  Nervous  187 

T 

Tabes  T^Tesfnterica  71 

Tabes  Dorsalis  202 

Table  of  Pains  and  Aches  4 

Table  of  Symptoms  i 

Tables  of  Weights  and  Measures  for 

Medicines  9 

Talipes  264 

Ta.n  and  Sunburn  230 

Tan  Lemons  for  439 

Tansy  350 

Tan'^y,  Poisoning  by  Oil  of  27"^ 

Tapeworm  240 

Tarter  Emetic  Poisoning  by  258 

Tfa,  Beef  41 

Tea,  Flaxseed  43 

Teas  or  Infusions  . . / 304 

Teeth  and  Mouth  of  Patient,  How  to 
Cleanse  ii 


Teething  260,  423 

Telescoping  of  Bowels  165 

Temperature  and  Ventilation  of  Sick 

Room  14 

Temperature  of  Baby  417 

Temperature,  Pulse  and  Respiration  of 

Patient  15 

Temple,  Pain  or  Aching  in  4 

Temples,  Aching  in  3 

Tent,  Bronchitis  or  Croup  18 

Tetanus  87 

Tetterwort  351 

Tic-douloureux  191 

Tick  Fever  88 

Tinctures  304 

Tinea  Capitis  236 

Tinea  Circinata  236 

Tineo  Sycosis  234 

Toad  Stools,  Poisoning  by  (Mushrooms)  272 

Toast  Water  43 

Tobacco  352 

Tobacco,  Poisoning  by  274 

Toe,  Hammer  265 

Toe  Nails,  Ingrowing 237 

Toes  and  F'ing^rs.  Dislo-^ation  of 40 

TONGUE,  APPEARANCE  OF  IN 

DISEASE  I 

Bluish  or  Inky  I 

Coated  on  Back  Part  I 

Clacked  and  Red  i 

Dry.  Red,  Dark  and  Cracked  i 

Straw'^erry  i 

A'  hiti'^h  with  Thick  Coating  i 

Yellowish  Brown  i 

Tongue.  Cancer  of 262 

Tongue  Tie  263,  419 

Tongue,  Y’ooden  88 

Tonic,  Salt  as  a 43S 

Tonics,  Hair  231 

Tonsils,  Enlarged  253 

Tonsilitis  250 

Tonsilitis,  Diphtheria  and  Quinsy 

Compared  5 

Tooth  Powder  261 

Tooth  Powder,  Borax  as 440 

Tooth  Rash  434 

Tooth  Wash,  Salt  as  a 438 

Toothache  259 

Toothache,  Kerosene  for  440^ 

Toothache,  Salt  for  438 

Top  Milk  408 

Toticollis  215 

Towels.  Bed  Linen,  Etc.,  Care  of 16 

Toxfmia  81 

Trachea-Bronchial  Glands,  Tubercu- 
losis OF 71 

Trailing  Arbutus  352 

Trask’s  Magnetic  Ointment  302 

Treatment  of  Heart  Disease,  General  134 
Treatment  of  Tuberculosis  73 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


468 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Tremens,  Delirium  207 

Tricuspid  Stenosis  I34 

Tricuspid  Valve  Disease 134 

Tri-facial  Neuralgia  191 

Troubles,  Stomach  and  Bowel 159 

True  or  Membranous  Croup 45,  108 

Thermic  or  Isolation  Fever 197 

Thigh  Bone,  Fracture  of 39 

Thigh,  Pain  in  5 

Things  in  Ear  30 

Things  in  Eye  30 

Things  in  Nose  34 

Third  Stage  of  Labor  395 

Thompson’s  Eye  Water 302 

Thorn  Apple  351 

Thorn  Apple,  Poisoning  by 274 

Thread  Worms* 239 

Thrfe-Day  Eever  88 

Throat,  Red  in  Back  Part  2 

Throat,  Whitish-yellow  Brown  or 

Gray  Tonsils  2 

THROAT  DISEASES 250 

Chronic  Pharyngitis  256 

Chronic  Sore  Throat  256 

Enlarged  Tonsils  and  Adenoids 253 

Quinsy  250 

Sore  Throat  2,  18,  254,  429 

Swelling  or  Elongation  of  Palate  253 

Things  in  Throat  (See  “Choking.”)..  27 

Tonsilitis  250 

Throat,  Sore — Lemons  for 439 

Throat,  Sore — Salt  for  439 

Thrush 259 

Thyme  351 

Thyrocele  140 

Tub  Bath  13 

Tubercular  Meningitis  71 

Tuberculosis  69 

Tuberculosis,  Acute  Miliary  70 

Tuberculosis,  Local  71 

Tuberculosis,  Mesenteric 71 

Tuberculosis  of  Cervical  or  Neck 

Glands  71 

Tuberculosis  of  Lymph  Glands 71 

Tuberculosis  of  Trachea-bronchial 

Glands  71 

Tuberculosis,  General  Treatment  of..  74 

Tuberculosis  Patient,  Diet  for 74 

Tuberculosis,  Medicines  for  75 

Tuberculosis  of  Joints  and  Spine 73 

Tuberculosis  of  Knee  Joint  264 

Tuberculosis  of  Liver  73 

Tuberculosis  of  Lungs,  Acute  Pneu- 
monic   72 

Tuberculosis  of  Lungs,  Chronic  Ul- 
cerative   73 

Tuberculosis  of  Pfrtcardtum  72 

Tuberculosis  of  Peritoneum  72 

Tuberculosis  of  Pleura,  Acute  72 

Tuberculosis,  Treatment  of  73,  74 


Tuberculous  Glands 264 

Tubes  and  Ovaries,  Tumors  of  263 

Tubes,  Fallopian — Description  of 381 

Tubes,  Fallopian — Diseases  of  381 

Tubes,  Fallopian — Inflammation  of...  381 

Tumors  and  Cancers  218 

Tumors  and  Cancers  of  Breast  263 

Tumors  of  the  Brain  and  Membranes  201 

Tumors  of  Liver  171 

Tumors  of  Ovaries  and  Tubes 263 

Tumors  of  Rectum  167 

Tumors  of  Womb,  Fibroid  380 

Turkey  Corn  353 

Tying  and  Dressing  Cord  396 

Typhoid  Fever  19,  76 

Typhus  Fever  80 

U 

Ulcer,  Gastric 146 

Ulcer  of  Stomach  (See  “Gastric  Ul- 
cer.”)   146 

Ulcerative  Tuberculosis  of  Lungs, 

Chronic  73 

Ulcers  225 

Ulcers  and  Cankers 256 

Under  Sheet,  To  Change 10 

Unicorn  353 

Uremia  180 

Urine  and  Feces  16 

Urine  in  Pregnancy 391 

Urine,  Bloody  184 

Urine,  Incontinence  of 186 

URINE  IN  DIFFERENT  DISEASES  3 

Bloody  3 

Brick  Dust 3 

Pale  3 

White  ’ 3 

Urine,  Pain  in  Passing 5,  419 

Urine,  Suppression  or  Retention  of 183 

Urticaria  238,  434 

Uses  of  Borax  440 

L^ses  of  Kerosene  Oil  439 

Uses  of  Lemons  439 

Uses  of  Salt  438 


V 

Vaccinate,  Should  We  59 

Vaccination  58 

Vaccination,  Secondary  59 

Vagina,  Diseases  of  37i 

Vagina,  Inflammation  of  373 

Vaginitis  373 

Valve  Disease,  Pulmonary  I34 

Valve  Disease,  Tricuspid  I34 

Valve  Incompetency,  Mitral 133 

Valves,  Description  of  the  Heart  and  127 

Valvular  Heart  Disease,  Chronic 132 

Van  Buskirk's  Fragrant  Sozodont 302 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES 266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


..  I 
..  8 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


469 


Vapor,  Disinfecting 12 

Varicose  Veins  135,  264 

Variola  56 

Varioloid  58 

Various  Ages,  Doses  of  Medicine  for..  8 

Varix  135 

Veal  Broth  41 

Veins.  Diseases  of 127 

Veins,  Varicose  135,  264 

Ventilation  of  Sick  Room  14 

Verdigris,  Poisoning  by  269 

Vertigo  29 

Vitriol,  Blue — Poisoning  by  269 

Voice,  Loss  of 201 

Vomiting  147 

Vomiting  After  Nursing  405 

Vomiting  and  Nausea  (Morning  Sick- 
ness)   391 

Vomiting  Coffee  Grounds  2 

Vomiting  Dark  Acid  Brown  2 

Vomiting  Dark  Blood  2 

Vomiting  Feces  2 

Vomiting  in  Nursing  Infants  410 

Vomiting,  Lemons  for 439 

Vomiting,  Projectile  2 

Vomiting  Red,  Frothy  Blood 2 

Vomiting,  Ways  of  Producing  266 

Vomiting  Yellow  or  Green  Material..  2 

Vulva,  Diseases  of  369 

Vulva,  Inflammation  of  369 

Vulva,  Itching  of  370 

Vulva,  Warts  of  371 

Vulvitis  369 

Vulvo-Vaginal  Glands,  Inflammation 

OF  369 

Vulvo-Vaginal  Glands,  Suppuration 

OF  369 


w 


Waist,  Pain  Around  and  Below 4 

Wardrobe,  Baby's  415 

Warner’s  Safe  Cure 303 

Warts  225 

Warts  of  the  Vulva 371 

Washing  Hair  of  Patient 13 

Washing  Powder,  Borax  as  440 

Water,  Albumen  42 

Water,  Arrowroot  43 

Water.  Barley  42 

Water.  Egg  and  Barley  43 

Water.  Gluten  42 

Water,  Lime  42 

Water,  Oatmeal  42 

Water,  Rice  43 

Water,  Toast  43 

Water  on  Brain  71 

Weak  Back  (See  “Lumbago.”)  214 

Weak  Eyes  242 

Weaning  407,  4H 


Weights  and  Measures  9 

Wens  225 

Wetting,  Bed  186 

What  the  Home  Medicine  Chest 

Should  Contain  7 

Wheals  238 

Wheat  Jelly  42 

When  and  How  to  Make  a Person 

Sweat  17 

Wherrell  Treatment  (See  “Gold 

Cure.”)  292 

Whey  41 

Whey  and  Curds  41 

White  Oak  353 

White  Pond  Lily  354 

White  Swelling  264 

Whites  371 

Whitlow  223 

Who  Should  Not  Marry  389 

Whooping  Cough  96,  436 

Wild  Carrot  354 

Wild  Cherry  355 

Wild  Ginger  355 

Wild  Yam  355 

Wintergreen 356 

Witch  Hazel 356 

Wolfsbane,  Poisoning  by  268 

WOMAN’S  DEPARTMENT  364 

Disorders  of  Menstruation  364 

Absence  of  Menses  364 

Acute  Suppres«=ion  of  Menses  During 

Menstrual  Period  365 

Exces'^ive  Menstrual  Flow  366 

Metrorrhagia  — 368 

Painful  and  Difficult  Menstruation.  367 

Scanty  Menstruation  366 

Diseases  of  the  Vulva  369 

Adhesions  of  Clitoris  371 

Inflammation  of  Vulva  369 

Inflammation  of  Vulvo-Vaginal 

Glands  369 

Itching  of  Vulva  370 

Suppuration  of  Vulvo-Vaginal 

(jlands  369 

Warts  of  Vulva  ’. . 371 

Diseases  of  the  Vagina  371 

Inflammation  of  Vagina  373 

Leucorrhea  (Whites)  371 

Diseases  of  the  Womb  374 

Acute  Inflammation  of  Womb 379 

Bending  Forward  of  Womb  375 

Cancer  of  Cervix  or  Neck*  of  Womb  378 
Cervical  Catarrh  (Acute  and 

Chronic))  377 

Chronic  Inflammation  of  Womb  ...  380 

Falling  of  Womb 374 

Fibroid  Tumors  of  Womb  380 

Laceration  of  Neck  of  Womb  377 

Retroversion  and  Retroflexion  of 
Womb  376 


ACCIDENTS  AND  EMERGENCIES..  20  TABLE  OF  SYMPTOMS  

POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266  DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES 


I 

8 


m 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


WOMAN’S  DEPARTMENT— 

Diseases  of  the  Fallopian  Tubes 381 

Inflammation  of  Fallopian  Tubes...  381 

Di-^eases  of  the  Ovaries  382 

Inflammation  of  Ovaries 382 

Ovarian  Cysts  383 

Our  Boys  and  Girls  383 

A Chapter  for  Young  Women  384 

The  Baths  387 

Diet  387 

The  Bowels  387 

Exercise  388 

Sleep  388 

Dress  ; 388 

Going  into  Society  388 

Choosing  a Husband  389 

A Chapter  for  Married  Women 389 

Who  Should  Not  Marry  389 

Abortion  and  Prevention  of  Concep- 
tion   389 

How  to  Conceive  and  Bear  Healthy 

Children  390 

Pregnancy  390 

Signs  and  Symptoms  of  Pregnancy..  391 
Cessation  or  Stopping  of  Menses..  391 

Changes  in  the  Breasts  391 

The  Kidneys,  Bladder  and  Urine.  .391 
Nausea  and  Vomiting  (Morning 

Sickness)  391 

Piles  in  Pregnant  Women  392 

Sour  Stomach,  Heartburn  or  Dys- 
pepsia   392 

Quickening  392 

Cravings  392 

Enlargement  of  Abdomen  392 

Labor  393 

Preparations  for  Labor 393 

Presentation  394 

Breech  Presentation  394 

Labor  Pains 394 

Duration  of  Labor  394 

The  First  Stage  of  Labor  394 

The  Second  Stage  of  Labor  395 

• The  Third  Stage  of  Labor 395 


ACCIDENTS  AND  FateRGENCIES.  . 20 
POISONS  AND  ANTIDOTES  266 


WOMAN’S  DEPARTMENT— 

Delivery  of  Child  396 

Dressing  and  Tying  the  Cord 396 

Delivery  of  Afterbirth  (Placenta)  396 

Hemorrhage  or  Bleeding 397 

Caution  397 

Diseases  Attending  and  Following 

Pregnancy  and  Labor 397 

Dropsy  397 

Eclampsy  (Convulsions)  397 

Child-bed  Fever  (Puerperal  Fever)  398 

Milk  Leg  398 

Sore  Nipples  399 

Caked  and  Broken  Breasts  399 

Abortion  400 

A Chapter  for  Women  of  Forty-five..  401 

Womb,  Diseases  of  374 

Acute  Inflammation  of  379 

Bending  Forward  of  375 

Cancer  of  263 

Cancer  of  Neck  of  378 

Chronic  Inflammation  of  380 

Falling  of  374 

Fibroid  Tumors  of 380 

Laceration  of  Neck  of  377 

Retroversion  and  Retroflexion  376 

Womb,  Neck  of  in  Pregnancy  393 

Wormwood  357 

Worms — Pin.  Thread  or  Seat  239 

Worms,  Round 240 

Worms,  Tape  240 

Worms,  Salt  for  438 

Wounds  36 

Wounds,  Bandaging  37 

Wood  Charcoal 357 

Wooden  Tongue  88 

Y 

Yarrow  357 

Yellow  Atrophy  of  Liver,  Acute 171 

Yellow  Dock  357 

Yellow  Fever  84 

Young  Women,  A Chapter  for 384 

TABLE  OF  SYI^^PTOats  i 

DOSES  FOR  VARIOUS  AGES  8 


(See  next  page  for  index  of  Herb  Remedies.) 


HERB  REMEDIES 


A 

Almond — (Amygdala)  

Arbor  

Arnica — Leopard's  Bane — (Arnica  Montana)  

Arse  Smart  

Asparagus  

Avens — Aven's  Root — Throat  Root — Chocolate  Root — (Ceum  Virginianum)  

B 

Balm  of  Gilead — Balsam  Poplar — (Popiilus  Balsamifera)  

Balsam  Fir — (Terebinthina  Canadensis)  

Barberry — (Berberis  Vulgaris)  

Basswood — Linden  Tree — Lime  Tree — Tilia  Tree — (Tilia  Americana)  (Tilia  Glabia)  . . 

Bayberry — Candle  Berry — Wax  Berry — Wax  Myrtle — (Myrica  Cerifera)  

Bearberry— Red  Berry — Mountain  Box — Wild  Cranberry — (Arbutus  Uva  Ursi) 

(Arctostaphylos  Uva  Ursi)  

Beech — Red  Beech — (Fagus  Ferruginea)  

Beech  Drops — Cancer  Root — (Epiphegus  Virginianus)  

Bellwort — Mohawk  Weed — (Uvularia  Perfoliata)  

Beth  Root — Indian  Balm — Birth  Root — Ground  Lily — Nodding  Wake-Robin — Three 

Leaved  Nightshade — Lamb’s  Quarter — (Trillium  Pendulum)  

Bitter  Root — American  Ipecac — Indian  Physic — Black  Indian  Hemp — Canadian 

Hemp — Dog's  Bane — (Apocynum  Cannabinum)  

Bitter  Sweet — Woody  Nightsrade — Bitter  Sv/eet  Nightshade — (Solanum  Dulcamara) 

Blackberry — Red  Raspberry — Dew  Berry  

Black  Cohosh— Squaw  Root— Black  Snake  Root— Rattleweed— Rich  weed— (Cimici 

Racemosa)  

Black  Snake  Root — (Sanicula  Marilandica)  

Blood  Root — Red  Root— Red  Puccoon — (Sanguinaria  Canadensis)  

Blue  Bells — Abscess  Root — Greek  Valerian — Sweat  Root — (Polemonium  Reptans)  . . 

Blue  Cardinal  Flower — Blue  Lobelia — (Lobelia  Syphilitica)  ^ 

Blue  Cohosh — Papoose  Root — Blue  Berry — Squaw  Root — (Caulophyllum  Thalictroides) 
Blue  Flag — Flag  Lily — Snake  Lily — Liver  Lily — Flower  de  Luce — (Iris  Versicolor) 

(Iris  Pseudo-Acorus)  

Blue  Violet — (Viola  Cucullata)  . 

Boneset — Tfioroughwort — Feverwort — Sweating  Plant — Crosswort — Vegetable  Anti- 
mony— Ague  Weed — Indian  Sage — (Eupatorium  Perfoliatum)  

Boxwood  

Broad  Leaved  Dock — Bitter  Dock — Blunt  Leaved  Dock — (Rumex  Obtusifolius)  

Buchu  

Buck  Thorn  Brake — (Osmunda  Regalis)  

Bugle  Weed — Water  Bugle — Gypsy  wort — Water  Horehound — (Lycopus  Virginicus) 

Burdock — (Arctium  Lappa)  

Butternut — White  Walnut  (Juglans  Cineria)  

C 

Caraway — (Carum  Carui)  

Catnip — (Nepeta  Cateria)  

Cayenne  Pepper — Capsicum — Red  Pepper — (Capsicum  Annuum)  

Chamomile — Roman  Chamomile — German  Metricaria — (Anthemis  Mobilis)  

Chestnut — (Castanea)  

Cinnamon — (Cinnamomum)  

Cleavers — Goose  Grass — Catchweed — Clivers — (Galium  Aparine)  

471 


306 

307 

30s 

306 

305 

306 

307 

309 

312 

309 

312 

313 

309 

313 

307 

307 

314 

313 

314 

310 

309 

315 

308 

308 

31 1 

315 

310 

316 

317 

310 

317 

317 

310 

317 

310 

318 

318 

318 

318 

319 

319 

319 


472 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Cloves — (Caryophyllus)  

CoLUMBO  Root  

CoMFREY — Healing  Herb — Gum  Plant — (Symphytum  Officinale)  

CoRNSiLK — (Maida  Stigmata)  

Crawley  Root — Fever  Root — Dragon's  Claw — Chicken's  Toes — Coral  Root — (Coral- 

lorhiza  Odontorhiza)  

Crowfoot — Wild  CRi^NEsniLL — Storkbill— Tormentil — (Geranium  Maculatum)  

Culver’s  Root— Culver's  Physic— Black  Root— Tall  Veronica — (Leptandra  Virginica) 

D 

Dandelion — Monkshood — (Taraxacum)  

Dewberry  

Dwarf  Elder — (Aralia  Hispida)  

E 

Elder — Sweet  Elder — Elder  Flowers — Black-berried  Elder — (Sambucus  Canadensis) 

Elecampane — (Inula  Helenium)  ; 

Elm — Slippery  Elm — Red  Elm — (Ulmus  Fulva)  

F 

False  Unicorn  Root — Blazing  Star  

Fennel — (Anethum  Foeniculum)  

Ftreweed — Colt's  Tail — Canada  Fleabane — (Erigeron  Canadense)  

Foxglove — Digitalis — Purple  Foxglove — Fairy's  Glove — (Digitalis  Purpurea)  

G 

Garlic — (Allium  Sativum)  

Gentian — (Gentiana  Americana)  

Ginger — (Zingiber  Officinale)  

Ginseng — Red  Berry — Ninstn — Five  Fingers — (Panax  Quinquefolium)  

Golden  Rod — Sweet  Scented  Golden  Rod — (Solidago  Odora)  

Golden  Seal — Yellow  Puccoon — Orange  Root — (Hydrastis  Canadensis)  

H 

Hard  Hack — Meadow  Sweet — Steeple  Bush — White  Leaf— (Spiraea  Tomentosa)  

Hemlock  Tree — Hemlock  Spruce — (Pinus  Canadensis)  

Henbane — Black  Henbane — Fetid  Nightshade — Poison  Tobacco — (Hyoscyamus  Niger) 

High  Cranberry — Cramp  Bark — (Viburnum  Opulus)  

Hollyhock — (Althaea  Rosea)  

Hops — (Humulns  Lapulus)  ’ 

Horehound — White  Horehound — (Marrubium  Vulgare)  

Horse  Chestnut — (zEsculus  Hippocastanum)  

Horseradish — (Cochlearia  Armosacia)  

I 

Indian  Turnip — Wild  Turnip — Wake-Robin — Dragon  Root — Jack-in-the- Pulpit — 

(Arum  Triphyllum)  

Iron  wood — (Astrya  Virginica)  

J 

Juniper — (Juniperus  Communis)  

L 

Lady’s  Slipper — Valerian — Nerve  Root — Moccasin  Flower — Yellow  Umbel — (Cypride- 

dium)  

Laurel — Mountain  Laurel — Spoonwood — Lambkill — Calco  Bush — (Kalmia  Latifolia) 

Lemon — (Citrus  Limonum)  

Lettuce — (Lactuca  Sativa)  

Lily  of  the  Valley— (Convallaria  Majalis)  

Liverwort — Noble  Liverwort — Liver  Leaf — (Hepatica  Triloba)  

T.OBELIA — Indian  Tobacco — Wild  Tobacco — Poke  Weed — Emetic  Herb — Asthma  Weed 
— (Lobelia  Inflata)  


320 

320 

320 

321 

321 

322 

322 

323 

314 

323 

324 

324 

324 

325 

325 

326 

326 

326 

327 

327 

328 

328 

328 

329 

329 

329 

330 

330 

330 

331 

331 

331 

331 

332 

332 

332 

333 

333 

333 

334 

334 

334 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


473 


M 

Mandrake — May  Apple — Indian  Apple — (Podophyllum  Peltatum)  335 

Marigold — (Calendula  Officinalis)  335 

Marshmallow — Mortification  Root — (Althaea  Officinalis)  335 

Milk  Weed — Silk  Weed — (Asclepias  Cornuti)  336 

Motherwort — (Leonurus  Cardiaca)  336 

Mullein — (Verbascum  Thapsus)  336 

Mustard — White  Mustard  and  Black  Mustard — (Sinapis  Nigra  and  Sinapis  Alba) 337 

N 

Nettle — Great  Stinging  Nettle — (Urtica  Dioica)  (Urtica  Hispida)  337 

O 

Onion — (Allium  Cepa)  338 

P 

Parsley — Rock  Parsley — (Petroselinum)  338 

Partridge  Berry — Squaw  Wine — Chicken  Berry — Winter  Clover  338 

Peach  Tree — (Amygdalus  Persica)  (Prunus  Persica)  339 

Pennyroyal — (Hedeoma  Pulegioides)  339 

Peppermint — (Mentha  Piperita)  339 

Pink  Root — (Spigelia)  340 

Plantain — Large  Plantain — Round  Leaved  Plantain — (Plantago  Major)  340 

Pleurisy  Root — Butterfly  Weed— White  Root— Orange  Swallowwort— (Asclepias 

Tuberosa)  340 

Poke  Root — Poke  Weed — Pigeon  Berry — Garget — Coakum — (Phytolacca  Decandra) . . 340 

Prickly  Ash— Yellow  Wood — Toothache  Tree — (Xanthoxylum  Fraxineum)  341 

Pumpkin  Seed — (Pepo)  341 

Q 

Queen  of  the  Meadow — Purple  Boneset — Joe  Pye  Weed — Gravel  Root — (Eupatorium 

Purpuretim)  342 

Queen’s  Delight — Queen’s  Root — Yaw  Root — (Stillingia)  342 


R 


Root  Parsley — (Apium  Petroselinum)  342 

Red  Clover — (Trifolium  Pratense)  343 

Red  Raspberry  314 

Rhubarb — (Rheum)  343 


S 


Saffron — True  Saffron— Spanish  Saffron— (Crocus  Sativus)  

Sage — (Salvia)  

Sarsaparilla — (Aralia  Nudicaulis)  

Sassafras — (Laurus  Sassafras)  

Scouring  Rush — Shave  Grass — Horsetail — (Equisetum  Hyemale)  

Seneca  Snake  Root — Milkwort — Mountain  Flax — (Polygala  Senega)  

Senna  

Sheep  Sorrel — (Rumex  Acetosa)  

Skxh.lcap — Mad  Weed — Hoodwort — Blue  Pimpernal — (Scutellaria)  

Skunk  Cabbage — Meadow  Cabbage — Swamp  Cabbage — Fetid  Hellebore — (Dracontium 

Fcetidum)  

Smartweed — Water  Pepper — Knot  Grass — Biting  Know  Weed — (Polygonum)  

Snake  Head — Balmony — Fish  Mouth — Bitter  Herb — Turtle  Bloom — (Chelone  Glabra) 

Solomon’s  Seal — (Convallaria  Polygonatum)  

Spearmint — ("Mentha  Viridia)  

St.  John’s  Wort — (Hypericum  Perforatum)  

Stone  Root — Knob  Root — Richweed — Horse  Balm — (Collinsonia  Canadensis)  

Strawberry — (Fragaria  Vesca)  

Sumach — (Rhus  Glabra)  

Sunfi.ower — (Helianthus  Annuus)  

Swamp  Snake  Root  


343 

344 
344 

344 

345 
345 

345 

346 
346 


346 

346 

347 

347 
34B 
34« 

348 
34Q 

349 

349 

350 


474 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 


Sweet  Clover — Kmr/s  Clover — Melilot — (Melilotus  Alba)  350 

Sweet  Flag — Flag  Root — Sweet  Rush— Calamus — (Acorus  Calairms)  350 

T 

Tansy— (Tanacetum  Vulgare)  350 

Tetterwort — Celandine — (Chelidonium)  351 

Thorn  Apple — Stramonium — Stink  Weed — Jamestown  Weed — Jimson  Weed — (Latura 

Stramonium)  351 

Thyme — Mother  of  Thyme — Garden  Thyme — (Thymus  Vulgaris)  351 

Tobacco — (Nicotiana  Tabacum)  352 

Trailing  Arbutus — Gravel  Weed — Winter  Pink — Mountain  Pink — Ground  Laurel — 

Mayflower — (Epigea  Repens)  352 

Turkey  Corn — (Corydalis)  353 

U 

Unicorn  Root — Blazing  Star — Devil’s  Bit — (Helonias  Dioica)  ! 353 

W 

White  Oak — (Quercus  Alba)  353 

White  Pond  Lily — Sweet  Scented  Water  Lily — Toad  Lily — Water  Cabbage — (Nymp- 

hiea  Odorata)  354 

Wild  Carrot — Bee’s  Nest — Bird’s  Nest — (Daucus  Carota)  354 

Wild  Cherry — Black  Cherry — Rum  Cherry — Cabinet  Cherry — (Prunus  Virginiana)  355 
Wild  Ginger — Colt’s  Foot — Canada  Snake  Root — (Asarum  Americanum)  (Asarum 

Canadense)  355 

Wild  Yam — Colic  Root — (Dioscorea  Villosa)  355 

WiNTERGREEN — Tea  Berry — MOUNTAIN  Tea — (Gaultheria  Procumbens)  356 

Witch  Hazel — (Hamamelis  Virginica)  356 

Wood  Charcoal — (Carbo  Ligni)  357 

Wormwood — (Artemisia  Absinthium)  357 

Y 

Yarrow — Thousand  Leaf — Milfoil — (Achillea  Millefolium)  357 

Yellow  Dock — Narrow  Leaf  Dock — Sour  Dock — Curled  Dock — Garden  Patience — 
(Rnmex  Crispus)  357 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  MOTHER  AND  HER  BABY. 

Nursing  and  Feeding. 


Why  Should  a Mother  Nurse  Her  Baby?  403 

Should  a Nursing  Mother  Drink  Tea  or  Coffee?  403 

Are  There  any  Diseases  that  Prohibit  the  Mother’s  Nursing?  403 

Does  Nursing  Necessarily  Drain  a Mother’s  System?  403 

Should  a Nursing  Mother  Eat  Fruit  and  Vegetables?  403 

How  Soon  After  Labor  Should  the  Baby  be  Put  to  Breast?  .'. 403 

What  Secretion  First  Appears  in  the  Breast  and  What  is  Its  Use?  403 

How  Soon  Do  the  Breasts  Secrete  Goon  Milk?  403 

If  There  is  Then  no  Milk  Secreted  What  Should  be  Done? 4^4 

If  There  is  Ltttie  or  No  Milk  After  Waiting  a Few  Days,  What  Should  be  Done?  404 

What  Should  You  Feed  if  a Mother  Cannot  Nurse  a New-born  Babe?  404 

Suppose  the  Nipples  are  so  Sore  that  Nursing  is  Very  Painful?  404 

How  May  Sore  Nipples  be  Pre\^nted? 404 

What  Can  be  Done  for  Nipples  that  Crack  or  Discharge  Pus? 404 

What  Can  You  Do  to  Prevent  a Broken  Breast?  404 

If  the  Mother  Has  Not  Enough  Milk  Should  She  Wean  the  Baby  or  Partly  Nurse 

It?  405 

How  Can  You  Increase  the  Supply  of  Milk?  405 

Should  a Nursing  Mother  Use  any  Alcoholic  Liquors?  405 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


475 


What  Things  in  the  Habits  or  Diet  of  the  Mother  are  Likely  to  Cause  Colic  or 

Indigestion  in  the  Baby?  ! • 405 

Is  There  any  Benefit  Derived  from  Chocolate  or  Cocoa?  405 

How  Can  You  Tell  When  a Baby  is  Well  Nourished?  405 

What  Symptoms  Show  that  a Baby  is  Poorly  Nourished?  405 

Does  a Healthy  Baby  Ever  Vomit  After  Nursing?  405 

How  Long  at  a Time  Should  a Mother  Nurse  Her  Baby?  406 

How  Often  is  it  Necessary  for  the  Baby  to  Nurse  the  First  Few  Days  After  Birth?  406 

How  Often  Should  the  Baby  Nurse  During  the  Succeeding  Months?  406 

What  Should  be  Done  if  Baby  Wants  to  Nurse  Oftener?  406 

When  Should  You  Stop  Night  Feeding?  406 

What  Can  You  Do  for  a Hard,  Inflamed  or  Caked  Breast?  406 

Should  You  C;ve  the  Nipples  any  Attention  if  they  are  Not  Sore? 406 

Should  a Baby  Nurse  from  a Breast  that  is  Broken  or  Contains  Pus? 407 

If  a Mother  Can  Only  Partly  Nurse  the  Baby  What  Other  Food  May  be  Used? 407 

When  Should  You  Begin  to  Wean  the  Baby?  \ 407 

Do  You  Advise  Sudden  or  Gradual  Weaning?  407 

What  Conditions  or  Circumstances  Demand  Sudden  Weaning?  407 

What  Diseases  Make  Sudden  Weaning  Necessary? 407 

Should  a Mother  Nurse  Her  Baby  if  Her  Monthlies  Return?  407 

Can  You  Give  Crackers,  Bread,  Butter,  Etc.,  to  Weaned  Babies?  407 

What  Causes  Sore  Mouth  in  the  Nursing  Mother?  407 

What  Should  be  Done  for  Such  a Condition?  407 

What  is  the  Best  Food  for  the  Baby  if  the  Mother  Cannot  Nurse  It?  407 

How  Does  Cow’s  Milk  Differ  from  Human  Milk?  407 

What  Ingredients  Compose  the  Human  Milk?  407 

What  Do  You  Call  the  Fats  and  Proteids  in  Milk?  408 

What  is  the  Top  Milk?  408 

How  Can  You  Obtain  the  Top  Milk?  408 

How  IS  IT  Usually  Treated  or  Diluted  to  Make  Baby’s  Milk?  408 

Should  You  Boil  the  Milk  for  Babies  in  the  Summer? 408 

When  is  Milk  Said  to  be  Pasteurized?  408 

How  Do  You  Pasteurize  Milk?  408 

Shoud  the  Milk  Always  be  Pasteurized? 408 

Is  Partially  Boiled  Milk  Harder  to  Digest?  408 

How  Can  You  Sterilize  Milk?  408 

Which  is  Preferable,  Pasteurized  or  Sterilized  Milk?  408 

What  is  a Simple  Way  of  Sterilizing  Milk?  408 

When  and  Why  Should  Lime  Water  be  Used  in  Milk? 408 

How  Do  You  Make  Lime  Water?  409 

Is  There  Anything  You  Can  Use  in  Place  of  Lime  Water  for  the  Same  Trouble?  409 

When  is  Soda  and  Lime  to  be  Added  to  Milk?  409 

Peptonized  Milk — What  is  It?  409 

Is  Peptonized  Milk  a Good  Milk  to  Use?  409 

Would  You  Advise  the  Use  of  Only  One  Cow’s  ]\Tilk?  409 

Do  You  Prefer  Milk  from  Either  a Jersey  or  Alderney  Cow? 409 

Should  Milk  be  Diluted  During  Whole  Babyhood?  409 

How  Should  Cow’s  Milk  be  Diluted  at  First? 409 

How  Can  I Tell  if  the  Milk  I Buy  is  of  Good  Quality?  410 

How  Can  T Determine  if  the  Cream  is  of  the  Right  Amount?  410 

What  is  Condensed  Milk?  410 

What  Kind  of  Bottles  Should  Iif  Used  for  Giving  Artificial  Foods?  410 

Summary  of  Feeding  Rules  for  Children  410 

Is  Vomiting  in  Nursing  Infants  a Bad  Sign?  410 

What  are  the  Causes  of  Vomiting?  410  • 

How  Does  Unhealthy  Food  Affect  a Baby  and  What  May  be  Done  for  It? 410 

Do  Grfen  Stools  Always  Indicate  Unsuitable  Food?  411 

What  Food  Usually  Causes  Green  Stools  in  the  Healthy  Infant?  41 1 

What  Foods  Would  You  Give  When  Weaning  is  Demanded  at  Six  or  Seven  Days 

Old?  41 1 

Can  the  Infant  Continue  to  Thrive  on  this  Strength  of  Food? 411 

How  Much  Can  the  Proteids  (They  are  found  in  skimmed  milk  and  some  also  in 
cream)  be  Increased?  412 


476  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK, 

What  Does  Sktmmed  Milk  Contain?  412 

Rules  for  Artificial  Feeding  Up  to  Twelve  Months  (From  Douglas)  412 

Feeding  Rules  for  Children  from  12  to  15  Months  Old 412 

Feeding  Rules  for  Children  from  15  to  20  Months  413 

Feeding  Rules  for  Children  from  20  to  24  Months  413 

What  Fruits  During  this  Period?  413 

Feeding  Rules  for  the  Third  Year  413 

How  Many  Meals  During  the  Third  Year?  413 

Proper  Diet  for  an  Average  Child  During  Third  Year 413 

Feeding  Rules  for  the  Third  to  the  Seventh  Year  414 

Articles  of  Food  414 

Forbidden  Articles  415 

Making  Preparation  for  the  Baby. 

Baby’s  Wardrobe  • 415 

Clothing  415 

Diapers  416 

Clothing  Recommended  for  First  Half-Year 416 

Bathing. 

At  What  Age  May  a Child  be  Given  a Full  Tub  Bath?  416 

How  AND  When  Should  the  Bath  be  Given?  416 

At  What  Temperature  Should  the  Bath  be  Given? 416 

What  Do  You  Regard  as  the  Best  Soap  for  an  Infant?  417 

Is  IT  Necessary  to  Use  a Baby  Powder  After  a Bath  and  if  so  What  is  Best? 417 

Would  You  Continue  the  Daily  Bath  with  a Sick  Baby?  417 

Do  Yon  Give  any  Special  Attention  to  the  Scalp?  .417 

If  There  is  any  Chafing  Must  You  Modify  the  Bath?  417 

Care  of  the  Baby. 

On  Which  Side  Should  a Baby  Lie?  417 

What  are  the  Normal  Respirations  for  an  Infant?  417 

What  is  the  Normal  Pulse  Rate/*  417 

What  is  the  Normal  Temperature  at  Birth?  417 

Where  Should  the  Temperature  be  Taken?  417 

What  is  Included  in  the  “ Period  of  Infancy”?  417 

What  is  Included  in  the Period  of  Childhood”?  417 

How  Many  Hours  a Day  Should  a Baby  Sleep?  418 

Do  You  Approve  of  Rocking  or  Walking  with  the  Baby  to  Make  It  Sleep? 418 

Suppose  the  Baby  Will  Not  Sleep?  418 

Are  There  any  Causes  Other  than  Sickness  that  Will  Make  a Baby  Restless  and 

Sleepless?  418 

Should  Either  Quieting  Medicines  or  Soothing  Syrup  Ever  be  Used? 418 

What  are  Some  of  the  General  Signs  of  Sickness  in  a Baby?  418 

What  Should  be  Done  if  a Child  Shows  the  First  Symptoms  of  a Serious  Illness?  419 

Does  a Baby  Sweat  About  the  Head?  419 

What  Does  Sweating  About  the  Head  Indicate?  419 

What  Cry  Indicates  Sickness/ 419 

What  Cry  Indicates  Pain?  419 

What  Does  Frequent  Jerking  and  Twitching  of  the  Musces  Mean?  419 

What  Does  it  Mean  When  it  Hurts  a Child  to  be  Handled?  4^9 

What  Indicates  Chronic  Illness?  419 

Sleeping  with  Eyes  Half  Open  Means  What?  419 

How  Much  Does  the  Stomach  of  a New-bork  Infant  Hold?  419 

What  Causes  a Child  to  Cry  When  It  Passes  Urine  (Water)?  419 

What  Causes  Bleeding  from  the  Navel?  419 

How  Can  I Tell  if  the  Baby  is  Tongtte-tied?  419 

What  Can  be  Done  if  the  Baby  is  Tongue-tied?  420 

DONT’S  for  THE  BABY  420 

Children’s  Diseases. 

SORE  EYES 420 

What  Causes  Sore  Eyes  in  a New-born  Babe?  420 


MEDICAL  INDEX. 


477 


What  Should  be  Done  for  Sore  Eyes?  

EARACHE  

How  May  1 Know  When  the  Baby  has  Earache  and  What  Can  be  Done  for  It? 

HEADACHE  

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  Headache  and  What  Can  be  Done  for  It?  

COLIC  

What  Causes  Colic  in  Babies? 

Is  Colic  Ever  Dangerous?  

How  Does  a Baby  with  the  Colic  Act?  

How  Can  Attacks  of  Colic  be  Prevented?  

If  Nursing  Gives  Relief  Should  the  Baby  Nurse  During  an  Attack  of  Colic? 

What  is  the  Proper  Treatment  for  Colic?  

General  Treatment  

Home  Remedies  

TEETHING  

When  and  in  What  Manner  Does  Teething  Come  in  a Healthy  Infant?  

Does  Teething  Necessarily  Cause  Convulsions  and  Other  Sickness  in  Babies? 

Do  Convulsions  During  Teething  Call  for  Lancing?  

What  are  the  Early  Signs  of  Teething?  

Do  You  Approve  of  Giving  the  Baby  Anything  to  Bite  Upon?  

What  Causes  the  Mother  to  Dread  the  Second  Summer  During  Teething?  

What  is  the  Cause  of  Early  Decay  in  Infant’s  Teeth?  

What  are  the  Disorders  Resulting  from  Teething?  

Can  You  Aid  Teething  with  Medicine?  

Is  it  Well  to  Check  the  Loose  Bowels  Coming  During  Teething?  

Is  Change  of  Air  Beneficial  for  Teething  Children?  

SORE  MOUTH  

Is  Sore  Mouth,  Stomatitis,  Thrush  or  Canker  Common  in  Children  and  What  are 

the  Causes?  

How  Soon  Does  Sore  Mouth  Appear?  

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  Sore  Mouth?  

M’hat  is  the  Treatment  for  Sore  Mouth?  

DIARRHEA  

Homeopathic  Treatment  for  Diarrhea  

How  Many  Stools  a Day  Should  a Baby  have  during  the  First  Month? . 

How  Many  Stools  a Day  Should  a Baby  have  after  the  First  Month?  

Does  Diarrhea  in  Children  Always  Indicate  Disease?  

CHOLERA  INFANTUM  

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  Cholera  Infantum?  

When  is  Cholera  Infantum  Most  Prevalent?  

Are  Bottle  Fed  Babies  More  Likely  to  have  Cholera  Infantum?  

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Cholera  Infantum?  

What  Food  and  Care  Must  be  Given  a Baby  with  Cholera  Infantum?  

CONSTIPATION  

What  Shall  I do  for  a Constipated  Baby?  

How  Should  Constipation  be  Treated  in  Bottle  Fed  Infants?  

Is  Castoria  a Good  Remedy  for  Constipation?  

\\^hat  Temporary  Treatment  May  be  Tried  for  Constipation?  

COLDS  

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Colds  in  the  Head?  

SORE  THROAT  

What  are  theFirst  Symptoms  of  Sore  Throat  in  Infants?  

What  are  the  Remedies  for  Sore  Throat?  

How  Can  You  Examine  a Child’s  Throat? 

SPASMODIC  CROUP  

When  Does  Spasmodic  Croup  Usually  Come  On? 

Is  Simple  Croup  Dangerous?  

What  are  the  Prominent  Symptoms  of  Croup?  

Treatment  for  Croup  

MEMBRANOUS  CROUP  

How  Does  Membranous  Croup  or  Laryngeal  Diphtheria  Develop?  

What  Should  be  Done?  

What  are  the  Symptoms? 


420 

421 

421 

422 

422 

422 

422 

422 

422 

422 

422 

422 

422 

423 

423 

423 

424 

424 

424 

424 

424 

424 

424 

424 

424 

425 

42s 

425 

425 

425 

425 

425 

426 

426 

426 

426 

426 

426 

426 

427 

427 

427 

427 

427 

427 

428 

428 

428 

428 

429 

429 

429 

430 

430 

430 

430 

430 

430 

431 

431 

431 

431 


478  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  MEDICAL  BOOK. 

What  is  the  Treatment?  431 

BIRTHMARKS  AXD  MOLES  431 

Should  Birtlimarks  be  Removed?  431 

What  Can  be  Done  for  Moles?  431 

PRICKLY  HEAT 431 

W hat  is  Prickly  Heat?  431 

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Prickly  Heat?  431 

ECZEMA  432 

Is  this  very  Common?  432 

At  What  Age  Does  Eczema  Occur?  432 

W here  Does  Eczema  Occur  432 

W'hat  are  the  Marked  Characteristics  of  Eczema?  432 

W^’hat  are  the  Symptoms  of  Eczema?  432 

What  are  the  Causes  of  Eczema?  432 

How  About  the  Itching  of  Eczema?  432 

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Ezeema?  432 

W'heu  is  Eczema  Most  Likely  to  Return?  433 

MILK  CRUST  433 

What  is  Milk  Crust  and  WTat  Can  be  Done  for  It? 433 

CHAFING  433 

W'hat  are  the  Causes  of  Chafing? 433 

W'hat  is  the  Treatment  of  Chafing?  413 

HIVES-NETTLE  RASH— URTICARIA  434 

What  Can  be  Done  for  Hive'?  434 

STOMACH  RASH— TOOTH  RASH  434 

What  is  the  Treatment  for  Stomach  Rash  or  Tooth  Rash?  434 

CONVULSIONS  434 

What  is  the  Eirst  Thing  to  be  Done  in  Case  of  Convulsions?  434 

W’hen  is  a Hot  Bath  Useful  for  Convulsions? 434 

How  is  the  Bath  Given  for  Convulsions?  434 

When  is  Another  Convulsion  Likely  to  Occur?  435 

DIPHTHERIA  435 

How  Does  Diphtheria  Begin  ? 435 

(See  General  Diseases  for  Treatment.) 

MEASLES  435 

What  are  the  First  Symptoms  of  Measles?  435 

Ts  Measles  a Serious  Disease?  435 

When  and  How  are  Measles  Contagious?  435 

W'hat  is  the  Treatment?  435 

SCARLET  FEVER  436 

W'hat  are  the  First  Symptoms  of  Scarlet  Fever?  436 

When  is  Scarlet  Fever  Contagious?  436 

What  is  the  Treatment?  436 

CHICKEN-POX  436 

W'hat  are  the  First  Symptoms?  436 

(For  Treatment  see  General  Diseases.) 

WHOOPING  COUGH  436 

How  Does  W'hooping  Cough  Begin  and  W'hat  are  the  Symptoms?  436 

(For  Treatment  see  General  Diseases.) 

GERMAN  MEASLES  436 

W'hat  are  the  Symptoms  of  German  Measles?  436 

(For  Treatment  see  General  Diseases.) 

RHEUMATISM  436 

Wdiat  are  Growing  Pains?  436^ 

Do  Babies  Often  have  Rheumatism  and  What  Can  be  Done  for  It? 436* 

RICKETS  437 

W^hat  are  the  Causes  of  Pickets?  437 

What  are  the  Symptoms  of  Rickets?  437 

At  W'hat  Age  is  Rickets  Most  Common?  437 

What  is  the  Treatment?  437 


.0, 


BOOK  II 

or  THE 

PEOPLES 

HOME 

LIBRARY 


BY 

MRS.  ALiaCITCHELL  KIRK 

LECTURER  AND  INSTRUCTOR 
IN  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE. 

author'mrs.  kirk’s  card  index 

COOKING  RECIPES” and  "handy’ 
EXPENSE  cards  TOR  HOUSE  KEEPERS’: 

CLEVELAND,  OHIO. 


PUBLISHED  BY 

THE  R.C.BARNUMCO. 

CLEVELAND,  OHIO. 

1013 


euBqjn-uBiedujBqo  yticjqn  | jo  n 


Copyrighted  191O5 

BY 

R.  C.  RARNUM. 
Ael  Rights  Reserved. 


✓ 


OOPYRIGHT  NOTICE. 

The  recipes  for  which  credit  is  given  to  “Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking 
Recipes”  are  protected  by  the  following  cop3’rights : “Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index 

Cooking  Recipes,”  Copyright  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk  ; “Supplemental 
Set  No.  I,”  Copyright  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk  ; “ Supplemental  Set 
No.  2,”  Copyright  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk  ; “ Supplemental  Set  No.  8,” 
Copyright  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk  ; “ Supplemental  Set  No.  1,”  Copy- 
right 1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk;  “Supplemental  Set  No.  6,”  Copyright 
1909,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kii  k. 

“ Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes  ” and  “ .Supplemental  Sets  ” are 
published  by  the  Yawman  and  Krbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 


AUTHOR’S  PREFACE. 


Though  the  world  is  full  of  cook  books  of  every  description,  yet  it  has 
been  my  experience  that  there  are  few  of  them  that  are  more  than  a collection 
of  recipes.  There  are  few  really  good  teachers  of  the  science  of  cooking.  For 
the  past  thirty  years  the  author  has  been  engaged  in  teaching  of  some  kind, 
ranging  from  kindergarten  work  to  assistant  at  Chicago  University  and  from 
private  teacher  of  cooking  to  Public  Lecturer  on  Domestic  Science.  This 
training  has  not  only  given  me  a knowledge  of  the  subjects  in  hand  but  has 
perhaps  rendered  me  capable  of  imparting  this  knowledge  to  others  in  a way 
to  be  easily  understood  by  all. 

Having  managed  a home  of  my  own  for  twelve  years  and  having  lived 
in  both  the  country  and  the  city  have  probably  given  me  a knowledge  of  the 
practical  needs  of  the  average  home.  Further  than  this,  I am  called  upon  reg- 
ularly each  week  by  ’phone  to  direct  the  culinary  aflfairs  of  many  Cleveland 
homes,  thus  giving  me  the  practical  experience  which  is  lacking  in  so  many 
teachers  of  Domestic  Science.  Furthermore,  during  the  past  five  years  I have 
delivered  (and  am  still  engaged  in  the  lecture  work)  a series  of  over  six  hun- 
dred public  lectures  on  cooking,  a larger  number  than  ever  before  delivered 
on  this  subject  by  any  woman  in  one  place.  These  things  have  brought  me  in 
direct  contact  with  thousands  of  people  of  all  classes,  given  me  a knowledge 
of  their  needs  and  at  the  same  time  fitted  me  for  imparting  this  knowledge  to 
others  in  a practical 

Having  been  principal  of  private  schools  and  being  at  the  present  time  a 
member  of  “ The  Domestic  Science  and  Art  Association  ” of  Cleveland,  and 
“ The  American  Home  Economics  Association  ” of  Chicago,  and  also  State 
Secretary  of  ‘‘  The  Associated  Clubs  of  Domestic  Science  ” has  brought  me  in 
contact  with  many  of  our  ablest  instructors  in  Domestic  Science  and  afforded 
me  an  excellent  opportunity  to  get  the  best  and  most  modern  ideas  relative 
to  the  science  of  cooking.  These  ideas  I have  endeavored  to  incorporate  in 
this  work,  leaving  out  the  technical  things  and  making  them  practical  for  the 
home. 

I believe  in  having  system  in  the  home  and  a business-like  management 
of  household  affairs  as  is  attested  by  the  fact  that  I am  author  of  “ Mrs.  Kirk’s 
Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes  ” and  also  of  “ Handy  Expense  Cards  for  House- 
keepers ” and  Correct  Combinations  of  Foods  for  Daily  Use.” 

I have  given  over  two  hundred  of  my  choice  recipes  in  this  work  and  for 
these  I have  adopted  the  form  used  in  my  “ Card  Index  Recipes.”  It  will  be 
noticed  at  a glance  and  without  reading  the  recipe,  one  can  tell  just  what 
materials  are  required  and  the  quantities  of  each.  One  can  also  tell  the  utensils 
that  are  necessary  and  thus  have  everything  in  readiness  before  beginning  the 
work.  Then  are  given  full  and  complete  directions  for  putting  together  and 
cooking  the  ingredients.  These  directions  I have  endeavored  to  make  so 
simple  and  complete  that  the  girls  and  the  young  housewives  with  no  previous 

(i) 


PREFACE. 


n 

experience  can  use  these  recipes  and  be  certain  of  good  results.  Though  the 
cook  with  many  years  of  experience  may  become  so  skillful  that  she  can 
“ guess  ” at  quantities  and  generally  get  good  results,  yet  it  is  necessary  for 
the  inexperienced  to  observe  absolute  accuracy  in  following  every  instruction. 

In  fact,  the  time  has  gone  by  for  “ guessing  ” at  quantities.  Use  accuracy  and 
you  will  never  have  failures  for  the  same  cause  always  gives  the  same 
results. 

Preceding  each  chapter  will  be  found  the  general  principles  underlying 
the  science  of  cooking  and  I believe  it  will  pay  every  woman  to  carefully  study 
and  follow  these  rules,  for  cooking  is  now  as  much  of  a science  as  is  any  other 
branch  of  knowledge.  I believe  that  cooking  and  the  management  of  house- 
hold affairs  should  be  a pleasure  rather  than  a drudgery.  I believe  that  a 
knowledge  of  proper  foods  and  the  proper  way  of  preparing  them  is  one  of 
the  most  important  sciences,  for  our  health  and  temperament,  and  conse- 
quently our  happiness  and  success  in  life,  largely  depend  upon  what  we  eat. 

Though  the  two  hundred  recipes  make  dainty  and  attractive  dishes,  yet  I 
have  had  due  regard  to  economy  and  the  “ Favorite  Home  Recipes  for  Every 
Day  Use  ” have  been  gathered  from  mothers  living  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 
They  are  the  dishes  “ like  mother  used  to  make,’'  and  I believe  they  will  be 
found  the  most  simple  and  practical  collection  of  recipes  for  every  day  use  that 
has  ever  been  published. 

It  has  been  my  object  in  this  work,  not  only  to  give  some  of  the  general  . 
principles  underlying  the  art  of  cooking,  but  also  to  give  simple  and  practical 
recipes  that  can  be  used  in  every  home  in  the  country. 


THE  AUTHOR. 


CONTENTS 


Author^s  Preface 

MRS.  KIRK’S  DEPARTMENT. 

The  Housekeeper’s  Science  of  Cooking  or  Domestic  Science  in  the  Home 

Bread  Making 

Cakes  

Meats 

Meat  Substitutes  and  Substantia)  Meals  Without  Meat 

Eggs 

Sauces  

Soups  

Vegetables  

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings 

Desserts 

Beverages  

Chafing  Dish  Cookery  

The  Canning  of  Fruits  and  Vegetables  

Preserving  and  Jelly  Making  

Pickling 

THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPES  FOR  EVERY-DAY  USE. 

Bread  Making 

Light  Breads  

Cake  Making 

Meats,  Poultry,  Game,  Fish,  Oysters  and  Croquettes 

Soups  

Eggs 

Vegetables  

Relishes,  Cheese  and  Chafing  Dish  Cookery 

The  Art  of  Candy  Making 

Pies  

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings  

Puddings  and  Sauces 

Creams  and  Custards 

Ice  Creams,  Sherbets  and  Ices 

Beverages  

Canning,  Preserving  and  Jelly  Making  

Pickling  

Preserving  Meats  

What  to  Do  and  How  to  Do  It  

Supplement 

Index  


I 


1 

7 

U 

22 

30 

37 

42 

46 

51 

62 

68 

80 

86 

90 

95 

101 


105 

111 

119 

129 

140 

142 

148 

151 

154 

162 

166 

170 

176 

178 

181 

185 

189 

195 

197 

220 

223 


iii 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


PAGE 

Portrait  of  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk  Frontispiece 

No.  I.  Table  Laid  for  Single  Service  for  Informal  Dinner  Laid  for  Soup 

Course  Opposite  6 

No.  2.  Dishes  to  be  Used  in  Informal  Dinner  Following  Table  Laid  for 

Sour  Course  as  Shown  in  No.  i Opposite  14 

No.  3.  Table  Laid  for  Coffee  and  Dessert  Opposite  30 

No.  4.  Table  Set  for  a Dinner  Where  the  First  Course  is  a Fruit  Cocktail  Opposite  68 

No.  5.  Table  Set  for  a Dinner  Where  the  First  Course  is  a Fruit  Cocktail  Opposite  105 


No.  6.  *A  Kitchen  Cabinet  and  Conveniences  in  a Modern  Kitchen Opposite  129 

No.  7.  A Few  of  the  Larger  Necessary  Kitchen  Utensils  (14  Cuts) Opposite  162 


No.  8.  A Few  of  the  Smaller  Necessary  Kitchen  Utensils  (15  Cuts) Opposite  i8a 


IV 


THE  HOUSEKEEPER’S  SCIENCE  OF  COOKING 

OR 

DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  IN  THE  HOME. 

“ Good  cooking  means  the  knowledge  of  all  fruits,  herbs,  balms  and  spices,  and  all  that 
is  healing  and  sweet  in  fields  and  groves,  and  savory  in  meats.  It  means  carefulness,  inven- 
tiveness, watchfulness,  willingness  and  readiness  of  appliances.  It  means  the  economy  of 
your  great-grandmothers  and  the  science  of  modern  chemists.” — Ruskin. 

THE  HOUSEKEEPER’S  CREED. 

I believe  housekeeping  and  cooking  is  and  should  be  interesting  and 
worthy  work  and  that  the  majority  of  women  would  enjoy  it  if  they  had  the 
opportunity  to  know  more  of  its  science ; that  it  must  be  considered  elevating 
— the  highest  art — and  not  a menial  and  brainless  occupation.  If  a man  is  not 
ashamed  of  his  profession  or  work,  there  is  no  reason  why  a woman  should 
be  ashamed  of  hers. 

I believe  before  marriage  every  woman  should  show  to  the  man  she 
is  to  marry  that  she  thoroughly  understands  the  work  of  making  and  keeping 
the  home  on  a perfectly  systematic  and  business  basis,  as  much  as  the  man  has 
shown  her  that  he  has  a profession  or  business  capable  of  providing  the  income 
for  the  maintenance  of  home  and  family. 

I believe  that  marriage  is  a life  partnership  with  mutual  interests  as  well 
as  love;  a partnership  of  square  dealing  and  equally  shared  responsibilities, 
and  should  not  be  entered  into  from  any  other  motive. 

It  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  the  young  woman  should  be  able  and 
willing  to  keep  house  as  conscientiously  as  she  has  taught  school  or  music  or 
used  the  typewriter. 

Can  you  use  the  salary  of  the  young  man  wisely,  economically  and  so  that 
each  of  you  may  live  comfortably,  besides  saving  a little  for  the  proverbial 
“rainy  day?”  This  question  should  be  answered  before  marriage. 

I believe  home  making,  housekeeping  and  all  that  goes  with  it  is  not 
drudgery,  is  not  a narrow  sphere  for  the  woman,  but  that  it  is  the  very  high- 
est type  of  living. 

“ He  who  gives  us  better  homes,  better  books,  better  tools — a fairer  outlook  and  wider 
hope — him  will  we  crown  with  laurel.” — Emerson. 

WHAT  CONSTITUTES  HOUSEHOLD  MANAGEMENT. 

Not  many  years  ago  everything  made  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  people  was 
created  in  the  home.  Now,  as  different  shops  and  factories  have  taken  most 
of  the  productions  and  developed  them  into  large  and  flourishing  industries 
and  manufactories,  there  are  two  problems  always  to  face,  and  these  are — 
production  and  consumption.  It  is  interesting  to  watch  the  wonderful  strides 
of  today  in  producing  wealth,  but  it  is  of  at  least  equal  importance  how  this 
money  is  spent ; and  the  home  is  the  center  for  the  consumption  of  this  wealth. 
It  has  been  said  by  students  of  Home  Economics  that  the  greatest  financial 
losses  come  through  the  home.  If  this  be  true,  then  women  should  begin  to 
have  a better  understanding  of  the  practice  of  economy  in  the  home.  First, 
the}'’  should  help  and  encourage  in  every  way  to  increase  the  income;  and 

1 


2 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


second,  to  lessen  the  expenditures.  It  is  not  always  what  we  earn,  but  how 
that  is  spent  that  insures  the  best  economy  and  results  in  perfect,  or  nearly 
perfect,  household  management.  At  the  present  time  the  difficulty  with  the 
housekeeper  is  not  so  much  that  she  has  lack  of  income,  as  that  she  does  not 
always  spend  wisely. 

Women  are  almost  having  their  first  real  awakening  to  the  fact  that  they 
must  acquire  more  knowledge  and  skill  to  do  the  work  in  the  home  success- 
fully and  thus  live  better  and  have  greater  enjoyment  and  prosperity. 

Home-making  is,  or  should  be,  a business.  The  home  has  close  business 
relations  with  the  grocer,  butcher,  merchant,  bank  and  in  fact  the  business 
world  in  general  and  only  business-like  methods  can  succeed. 

•Begin  early  in  life  with  your  daughters  and  train  them  in  systematic 
household  management  and  home-making  and  there  will  be  fewer  financial 
failures  in  the  business  world. 

HOUSEKEEPING  A PROFESSION. 

Housekeeping  has  passed  the  days  of  mere'drudgery  and  now  ranks  among 
the  professions. 

There  is  much  thought  exercised  by  the  well  trained  and  thoughtful  house- 
wife who  plans  and  directs  and  knows  herself  how  to  do  any  of  the  work  in 
the  home. 

We  know  this  work  takes  more  brains  than  dollars,  and  education  and 
training  are  necessary  for  the  woman  who  selects  the  food,  clothing  and  all  the 
works  of  art  for  the  uplifting  and  growth  of  a well-balanced  family,  mentally, 
morally  and  physically.  She  should  be  trained  in  the  estimation  of  values, 
in  food,  clothing  and  household  furnishings. 

She  should  have  had  practice  in  the  various  duties  of  a home  before  mar- 
riage. Otherwise  the  expense  comes  at  the  wrong  time,  which  is  unjust  to 
the  man.  Mrs.  Ellen  H.  Richards  says,  “ By  teaching  the  girl  under  fourteen 
how  to  cook,  she  will  do  it  naturally  and  easily  when  she  is  a housewife.”  If 
women  knew  how  to  do  this  work  well,  it  would  cease  to  be  a drudgery. 

A good  business  man  has  to  know  his  business  thoroughly  and  apply  to 
it  ordinary  business  principles  and  systematic  methods  in  order  to  succeed. 
The  same  is  true  of  housekeeping. 

HOME  EXPENDITURES  AND  ACCURATE  RECORDS. 

“ An  economical  household,  not  a stingy  one,  makes  a successful  and  contented  home.” 
— Freeman. 

“ In  olden  times  women  thought  and  thought  before  they  spent,  often 
making  the  spending  a burden.  Now  women  often  spend  and  then  think  and 
think  and  think.”  There  should  be  some  happy  medium. 

If  we  have  studied  pure  foods,  good  taste  in  dressing  and  the  same  in 
furnishings  for  the  home,  we  have  made  great  advance  in  the  lessening  of 
home  expenditures.  Accurate  accounts  should  be  kept  of  the  allowance  for 
such  use  and  what  it  is  spent  for.  There  are  miany  ways  of  doing  this  but  one 
of  the  simplest  is  a card  index  system  on  which  the  expenditures  for  the  day, 
not  itemized,  but  headings,  may  be  quickly  noted  and  footed  up  at  the  end  of 
the  week.  This  is  absolutely  necessary  for  system  and  economy  in  the  home. 

It  is  true,  that  all  the  members  of  the  family  must  unite  in  this  if  it  is 
successful.  They  must  all  agree  upon  a universal  or  given  standard  of  living. 
It  is  better  to  divide  the  income  to  cover  the  necessary  expenditures  and  then 
try  to  live  within  it.  The  figures  must  be  before  you  or  you  will  find  waste 
and  more  waste.  One  housekeeper  recently  said  to  me  in  trying  my  Expense 


DOMESTIC  SCIENCE. 


3 


Cards,  “ I found  I was  not  losing  on  my  regular  expenditures,  such  as  gro- 
ceries, etc.,  but  my  ‘ miscellaneous  ’ was  appalling.’^  Twenty-five  cents  today 
and  another  tomorrow  seems  very  little  but  for  a month  or  year  it  means 
much  loss. 

ORGANIZATION  AND  DIVISION  OF  LABOR. 

It  is  very  easy  for  most  of  us  to  imagine  the  home  where  no  system  or 
organization  exists. — There  is  no  order ; things  are  placed  here  today  and 
there  tomorrow  and  valuable  time  is  spent  in  searching  for  articles  which  have 
no  settled  resting  place.  This  kind  of  living,  or  staying,  more  properly  speak- 
ing, reacts  upon  every  member  of  the  household.  The  work  is  much  harder 
and  costs  infinitely  more  in  time,  strength  and  money  than  a definite  and  well 
regulated  home  would  cost.  ‘‘  It  is  not  the  revolution  that  wears  out  the 
machinery,  it  is  the  friction,”  and  nowhere  is  this  so  true  as  in  the  home.  If 
the  housewife  has  had  no  training  or  experience  her  troubles  are  legion.  It 
is  first  in  knowing  how  and  what  to  do,  the  proper  division  of  this  labor,  and 
when  it  is  to  be  done.  It  makes  very  little  difiference  whether  it  is  the  woman 
with  no  servants  or  one  with  several.  It  is  now  conceded  by  every  thinking 
individual  that  the  housewife  must  not  only  know  how  the  work  is  to  be 
done ; but  must  be  able  to  plan,  systematize  and  direct  the  same. 

Applying  this  knowledge  every  day,  one  need  not  carry  the  kitchen  or 
three  meals  a day  “ on  their  shoulders  ” from  morning  until  night,  but  have 
regular  hours  for  definite  and  systematic  work,  recreation  or  study.  It  is  very 
easy  to  direct  Mary  ” to  do  the  washing,  bake  a cake  and  have  company  for 
dinner,  and  it  is  quite  another  thing  to  know  the  necessary  time  required  to 
do  these  things. 

System  is  the  keynote  of  the  home.  Each  day's  work  should  be  planned 
in  advance ; in  fact,  a written  or  printed  plan  of  work  should  be  in  every 
kitchen.  Then  a written  menu  of  the  meals.  These  may  be  written  on  cards, 
one  for  each  day  of  the  week,  and  indexed  under  the  card  index  system  so  uni- 
versal now.  On  the  opposite  page  may  be  references  showing  where  recipes 
for  certain  dishes  may  be  found,  or  any  other  notes.  The  grocery  order  should 
be  made  out  and  the  refrigerator  consulted  at  the  same  time.  “ Woman’s 
work,”  it  is  said,  “ is  never  done.”  It  has  been  largely  her  own  fault.  Plan, 
systematize,  and  pigeon-hole  your  work ; in  other  words,  get  rid  of  it,  which 
will  be  a wonderful  care-remover. 

Woman’s  life,  as  a rule,  is  made  up  of  little  things.  This  is  particularly 
true  in  the  spending  of  small  sums  of  money ; five  cents  here  and  there,  then 
a dime,  quarters  and  dollars  until  in  this  small  spending  they  do  not  realize 
that  “ tremendous  whole.” 

I repeat,  housekeeping  is  a profession  and  it  is  the  careful  watching  of 
just  the  right  time  to  buy,  and  what  to  buy,  that  constitutes  good  household 
management.  Much  depends  on  the  manner  or  style  of  living  whether  you 
should  buy  in  large  or  small  quantities.  Find  the  happy  medium  between 
the  hand  to  mouth  style  of  living  and  the  buying  in  too  large  quantities,  which 
may  mean  waste.  Marketing  is  an  art.  We  had  better  say  to  market  well  is 
an  art.  Buy  foods  in  season  as  nearly  as  possible.  If  you  can  only  purchase 
a little,  buy  that  which  is  good  and  use  every  bit  of  it.  It  is  the  little  wastes 
that  fill  the  garbage  can. 

A WELL  EQUIPPED  KITCHEN  AND  THE  UTENSILS. 

“ The  best  is  the  cheapest  ” is  a good  rule  to  follow.  In  many  homes  the 
surprise  is  that  the  meal  can  be  prepared  with  the  meager  kitchen  equipment 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


provided.  Be  proud  of  your  kitchen  and  utensils  but  take  care  of  them.  The 
very  best  of  utensils  may  soon  be  useless  if  placed  over  too  hot  fires,  especially 
gas.  On  the  other  hand  a medium  priced  article  in  the  hands  of  a skilled 
worker  may  outwear  the  very  best  utensil  in  the  hands  of  a careless  one. 

Many  accessories  in  the  kitchen  have  come  to  be  looked  upon  as  ‘‘  must 
haves  ” through  long  use.  The  evidence  of  utility  in  everything,  together 
with  good  taste  and  judgment  in  every  selection,  are  the  great  essentials  in 
buying  kitchen  as  well  as  other  utensils. 

Fireless  Cookers  and  Steam  Cookers  are  doing  much  to  overcome  this, 
as  in  either  of  these  methods  of  cooking  neither  food  nor  utensils  can  be  burned. 
Do  not  buy  every  new  thing  that  comes  out.  Find  out  whether  it  is  of  prac- 
tical use,  then  buy  it  and  use  it.  Too  many  articles  and  in  inconvenient  places 
are  as  bad  as  not  enough.  Have  a convenient  drawer  or  hook  for  utensils  and 
always  have  them  in  that  place  and  no  other. 

The  Fireless  and  Steam  Cookers  and  Bread  Mixers  are  among  some  of  the 
kitchen  utensils  that  have  come  to  stay  and  it  is  the  intelligent,  thinking,  up- 
to-date  housekeeper  that  is  looking  for  the  practical,  helpful  and  attractive 
equipment  for  her  kitchen. 

KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


Range 
Refrigerator 
Steam  Cooker 
Fireless  Cooker 
Tea  kettle 

3 stew  pans,  1 qt.  to  3 qts. 

Steel  spicier,  9 
Double  boiler,  2 qt. 

Steel  frying  pan,  7 

Toaster 

Frying  basket 

Spatula 

Muffin  pan 

Colander 

Coffee  pot 

Tea  pot 

Food  chopper 

Chopping  knife  and  bowl 

Strainers 

Bread  mixer 

Bread  pans,  2 or  more 

Bread  board 

Rolling  pin 

Flour  sieve 

Pans  or  basins,  2 or  more 
Bowls,  about  5 in  assorted  sizes 
Dish  pan 
Drainer 

Floor  and  stove  brushes 
Broom 

Steel  knives  and  forks,  3 
French  vegetable  knife 
Vegetable  brush 
Cream  whip 

Egg  beaters,  Dover  and  flat  wire 
beater 

Covered  roaster 
Cake  pans,  layer,  2 


Meat  and  bread  knives 

Loaf  pan,  square,  oblong  or  oval 

Sponge  cake  pan 

Sink  strainer 

Scales 

Soap  shaker 

Potato  and  vegetable  press 

Salt  box 

Grater 

Measuring  cups,  1 tin  and  1 glass 

Lemon  squeezer,  glass 

Pie  plates,  2 or  more 

Skewers 

Skimmer 

Table  spoons,  3 

Tea  spoons,  3 

Measuring  spoon 

Bread  box 

Funnel 

Vegetable  and  pudding  dishes,  2 
Potato  masher,  wood 
Garbage  pail 

Waste  basket,  closely  woven 
Receptacles  for  flour,  sugar,  cereals,  con- 
diments, molasses,  etc. 

Kitchen  cabinet  or  table 
Chair 

High  stool 

Slotted  wooden  spoon 

Wooden  spoon,  small  size 

Casserole 

Custard  cups 

Tin  mold 

Coffee  mill 

Clothes  hamper 

Carpet  sweeper 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes 
Mrs.  Kirk’s  Housekeeping  Expense  Cards 


DOMESTIC  SCIENCE. 


LAUNDRY  EQUIPMENT. 


Wash  tubs,  2 medium,  1 large 

Wash  board,  medium 

Clothes  pins 

Clothes  line 

Boiler 

Wringer 

Wash  tub  bench 

Bluing 

Starch 


Soaps 

Clothes  basket 
Ironing  board 
Irons 

Clothes  stick 
Clothes  pole 
Clothes  horse 

Small  vegetable  or  nail  brush  (for 
fringes) 


HOUSEKEEPER’S  EVERY  DAY  SCHEDULE. 

“ In  any  community  organized  on  really  healthy  lines,  the  average  woman  will  have 
quite  enough  to  do  in  her  own  home,  whether  she  is  rich  or  poor.  Nowhere  else  can  she 
do  work  of  such  value  to  the  nation.” — Theodore  Roosevelt. 

Kitchen  calendars  or  schedules  have  probably  been  written  for  nearly 
every  cook-book  published.  It  has  been  a serious  question  in  my  mind  how 
much  time  and  thought  to  devote  to  this.  If  the  housekeeper  will  use  it,  it  is 
worth  while.  If  she  is  a “ guess  cook  ” or  “ near  enough  ” it  would  be  waste 
of  time  to  prepare  it. 

With  the  thousands  of  women  with  whom  we  have  come  in  contact  in  the 
past  four  years,  I know  they  are  steadily  advancing  along  the  line  of  better 
and  more  wholesome  living,  and  more  accurate  cooking.  By  such  these  pages 
will  be  read  and  consulted  or  a copy  made  and  framed  to  hang  in  the  kitchen. 
One  of  the  most  difficult  problems  the  housewife  has  in  her  cooking  is  deter- 
mining the  temperature  of  the  oven  for  baking.  Moderate,  hot,  very  hot,  cool, 
etc.,  may  not  mean  the  same  thing  to  one  that  it  does  to  another.  Thermom- 
eters are  coming  into  general  use,  are  inexpensive  and  will  do  much  to  not 
only  relieve  the  anxiety  attending  the  baking,  but  there  will  not  be  failures 
as  before  when  it  was  all  guess  work.  We  are  learning  to  be  systematic  and 
accurate  in  all  .that  pertains  to  housekeeping  and  cooking;  and  as  a result  work 
is  easier  and  we  have  better  cooked  foods  with  fewer  failures. 


A half-pint  measuring  cup  of  tin  or  glass  can  be  purchased  at  any  depart- 
ment store  for  five  or  ten  cents,  and  it  is  standard  for  all  recipes  given.  Do 
not  expect  perfect  results  using  a tea  cup  one  time  and  a coffee  cup  another, 
or  guessing  at  the  halves,  thirds  or  quarters.  No  matter  what  your  experi- 
ence or  judgment,  in  order  to  have  a recipe  give  perfect  results,  always — with 
all  conditions  equal — there  are  certain  measurements  which  must  be  strictly 
followed. 


1 

4 

1 

1 

1 

2^ 

2 

1 

1 

1 


TABLE. 


cup  equals 

tablespoonfuls 

gill  equals  

pint  equals  

cup  of  butter 

cups  powdered  sugar 

cups  of  sifted  flour 

rounding  tablespoonful  of  flour  . 
rounding  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
rounding  tablespoonful  of  butter 


V2  pint  or  regular  measuring  cup 
% pint  or  regular  measuring  cup 
V2  pint  or  regular  measuring  cup 

1 pound 

V2  pound 

1 pound 

V2  pound 

% ounce 

1 ounce 

1 ounce 


GENERAL  TIME  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES. 


Boiled  Potatoes  

Boiled  Rice  

Baked  Potatoes 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes 
Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 
Boiled  Turnips  


30  minutes 

15  to  30  minutes 

45  minutes 

35  minutes 

45  minutes 

20  to  30  minutes 


6 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


New  Carrots  

Old  Carrots  

Green  Corn — boil  . . . 
Green  Peas,  fresh  . . 
Green  String  Beans  . 
Green  Shelled  Beans 
Green  Lima  Beans  . 

Sliced  Cabbage  

Boiled  Cabbage 

Cauliflower  

Squash  

Stewed  Tomatoes  . . 

Onions  

Celery  

Baked  Bananas  .... 
Baked  Apples  


....  30  minutes 
....  60  minutes 
5 to  10  minutes 
....  15  minutes 

45  minutes 

....  45  minutes 
....  30  minutes 
....  20  minutes 

1 hour 

....  30  minutes 
....  20  minutes 
....  20  minutes 

45  minutes 

....  30  minutes 
. . . . 30  minutes 
....  25  minutes 


BAKING. 

“ She  can  bake,  she  can  broil,  she  can  fry. 

Ne’er  a cake  does  she  spoil,  nor  a pie. 

She’s  perfectly  neat. 

Her  temper  is  sweet. 

And  this  is  the  reason  why.” 

Much  depends  upon  the  regulation  of  heat  in  planning  any  definite  time 
for  baking;  an  oven  may  be  slow  for  some  things,  quick  for  others  and  so  on. 
Follow  recipes  and  note  the  time  and  kind  of  oven  given;  this  will  be  of  more 
service  to  the  housekeeper  than  all  the  tables  ever  written.  Bread  and  cake 
cannot  be  baked  once  or  twice  in  three  months  and  you  know  much  about  tem- 
perature of  the  oven.  This  knowledge  of  ovens  only  comes  by  continual  prac- 
tice, or,  as  before  stated,  by  the  use  of  a thermometer  often  enough  to  become 
perfectly  familiar  with  its  registrations. 

TABLE  SETTING  AND  SERVING. 

(Table  Etiquette.) 

When  hearts  are  light  and  spirits  gay 
You  almost  hear  the  table  say: 

“ These  people  give  me  hearty  cheer. 

I’m  very  glad  they’re  round  me  here.” 

If  food  is  wholesome,  linen  white, 

China  and  silver  polished  bright. 

With  pride  the  table  spreads  its  leaves. 

Glad  to  dispense  what  it  receives. 

With  friends  in  loving  converse  near 
The  table  speaks  for  all  to  hear. 

It  says  as  plain  as  table  can: 

“ Draw  round  me  all.  I’m  spread  for  man.” 

—Table  Talk. 

The  duty  of  setting  the  table  usually  falls  to  the  daughter  of  the  house, 
if  there  is  one.  If  not,  the  mother  has  this  added  responsibility  if  she  has  no 
helper  in  the  home,  and  even  then,  if  she  wants  care  and  neatness  in  this  most 
artistic  work,  as  the  maid  of  all  work  does  not  have  time  to  devote  to  it. 
There  should  be  a certain  personality  in  the  setting  of  a table  that  belongs  to 
some  member  of  the  family.  And  there  are  some  absolutely  fixed  rules  for 
the  placing  of  the  service  on  the  table. 

In  the  first  place  the  linen  should  be  spotless  and  white  and  as  fine  as  your 
style  of  living  will  warrant;  the  simpler  linens  for  every  day  use  and  the  finer 
ones  for  special  occasions.  They  may  be  all  this,  but  if  they  are  not  ironed 
with  great  care  and  the  corners  of  cloth  and  napkins  folded  perfectly  even, 
the  very  foundation  of  table  setting  is  a failure. 


(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 

NO.  1.  TABLE  LAID  FOR  SINGLE  SERVICE  FOR  INFORMAL  DINNER. 

LAID  FOR  SOUP  COURSE. 

The  soup  plate  is  on  a service  i)late  which  is  an  eight  cr  ten-inch  plate.  Observe 
closely  the  accuracy  with  which  knife,  fork,  spoons,  goblet  and  other  service  are  ])laced 
on  the  table.  The  soup  spoon  is  placed  to  the  right  of  the  knife  and  the  soup  ladle  to 
the  right  of  the  sonp  spoon.  Using  left  hand  for  removing  cover  of  tureen,  you  are 
ready  to  take  the  ladle  in  right  hand  and  serve  soup  which  may  be  passed  to  other 
members  of  the  family  at  table. 

The  water  glass  or  goblet  should  always  be  placed  at  end  of  knife  blade.  The 
bread  and  butter  plate  is  on  the  left  side  at  end  of  fork.  The  silver  is  always  used 
from  the  outside  toward  the  plate,  either  from  right  or  left.  Napkins  should  always 
be  placed  on  left  side  of  fork.  Twenty-four  inches  is  the  usual  space  allowed  for  each 
cover  or  person. 


< 


BREAD  MAKING. 


7 


Have  a soft  pad  or  under-cloth  on  the  table  before  the  cloth  is  laid.  The 
linen  then  wears  better,  looks  richer,  and  there  is  less  noise  from  the  dishes 
and  silver.  Lay  the  cloth  perfectly  smooth  and  straight,  being  careful  in  doing 
this  not  to  make  a wrinkle.  Place  the  knives  to  the  right  of  each  place  with 
the  blade  turned  toward  the  plate  and  the  fork  to  the  left,  each  one  inch  from 
the  edge  of  the  table  and  allowing  about  twenty-four  inches  for  each  guest. 
Place  teaspoons  to  the  left  of  the  fork  and  soup  spoons  and  oyster  fork  to 
the  right  of  the  knife.  Do  not  place  too  much  silver  on  the  table  at  once; 
better  have  it  brought  in  later,  as  needed,  by  the  one  doing  the  serving. 
Place  the  butter  plate  back  to  the  left  of  the  tip  of  the  fork,  and  the  water  glass 
to  the  right  at  the  tip  of  the  knife. 

The  napkins  should  be  folded  perfectly  square  and  placed  to  the  left  of 
the  forks.  The  remaining  setting,  of  the  table  all  rests  entirely  upon  the  in- 
genuity and  good  taste  of  the  housewife.  Just  a suggestion — keep  it  simple 
rather  than  have  too  much  on  it.  Nothing  speaks  more  loudly  for  the  refine- 
ment of  a family  than  the  perfectly  set  table. 

In  the  serving,  when  a maid  is  in  attendance,  all  food  should  be  served 
from  the  left  side.  If  it  is  passed,  to  be  set  down,  from  the  right  side.  Nearly 
eighty-five  per  cent,  of  the  families  are  without  help  in  this  country;  conse- 
quently, most  of  the  serving  is  done  at  the  table ; or,  members  of  the  family 
take  turns  and  in  this  manner  there  is  less  confusion. 

breadImking. 

(Including  Muffins,  Rolls,  Pop-Overs,  Gems  and  Griddle  Cakes.) 

“ Full  many  a gem  which  should  have  raised  serene. 

Burns  to  a crisp  behind  the  oven  door. 

And  many  a sack  of  flour  is  borne  to  burst  unseen, 

And  waste  its  whiteness  on  the  kitchen  floor.” 

Flavor,  in  bread,  by  many  people  is  considered  one  of  the  first  requisites ; 
and  the  difference  in  flavors  is  entirely  due  to  the  amount  of  soluble  carbohy- 
drates and  the  kind  of  flour  which  will  produce  the  greatest  per  cent,  of  gluten 
both  in  quality  and  quantity;  and  again  upon  the  fermentation  used  in  the 
making. 

Every  housekeeper  who  wishes  to  be  able  to  make  perfect  bread,  should 
acquaint  herself  thoroughly  on  the  subject  of  “ flours.”  And  any  of  the  best 
cook-books  will  enlighten  her  on  the  subject  with  very  little  effort  on  her  part. 
The  housekeeper  must  know  all  she  possibly  can  of  flour,  yeast,  fermentation 
and  baking,  in  order  to  attain  anything  like  success.  There  are  two  distinct 
kinds  of  flour  called  Spring  and  Winter. 

The  Spring  wheat  is  stronger  and  contains  the  greater  amount  of  gluten 
(muscle  building  food),  and  for  this  reason  will  retain  more  moisture  and 
produce  a greater  number  of  loaves  of  bread  than  the  Winter.  I mean  by 
this  the  hard  Spring  wheat.  Personally,  I prefer  a blending  of  Spring  and 
Winter  wheat,  providing  the  mixture  is  largely  Spring. 

A good  bread  flour  should  be  a rich  creamy  yellow,  rather  ''  sandy  ” in  feel- 
ing and  should  fall  apart  easily  when  taken  between  the  thumb  and  forefinger. 
Good  pastry  flour  is  not  so  yellow  in  appearance  and  is  easily  packed  into  a 
little  cake,  when  pressed  between  the  thumb  and  forefinger. 

■ In  the  following  recipes  for  bread  making  it  has  not  been  possible  to  give 
the  exact  amount  of  flour,  as  different  flour,  even  from  the  same  mill,  re- 
quires more  or  less  liquid. 


8 


THE  PEOPLE^S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


These  liquids  may  be  water,  milk,  or  milk  and  water  together.  The  most 
wholesome  bread  is  made  without  butter  or  lard.  If  you  are  in  doubt  about 
your  yeast,  a little  sugar  may  be  used,  which  will  help  to  create  the  neces- 
sary activity.  Of  course,  you  will  not  expect  good  bread  from  poor  yeast; 
but  the  sugar  will  aid  the  growth  of  yeast  plants  still  alive.  Butter  and  lard 
retard  the  yeast  and  when  used  a little  additional  yeast  should  be  supplied. 

Bread  should  be  well  kneaded  and  this  is  more  easily  accomplished  by 
using  a Bread  Maker.  It  is  the  only  hygienic  way  to  knead  the  bread,  and 
these  machines  can  be  purchased  at  from  $1.35  to  $2.50  and  are  a great  saving 
both  of  time  and  labor.  Bread  can  be  well  made  and  spoiled  in  the  baking. 
The  oven  should  be  ready  for  the  bread,  and  that  at  a temperature  of  what  is 
called  a “ quick  ” oven,  or  if  you  use  the  oven  thermometer  ten  minutes  after 
12  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  cooling  to  five  minutes  of  12,  for  the  remain- 
ing twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  the  bread  from  the  oven ; do  not  cover, 
but  allow  the  air  to  circulate  freely  around  it.  When  cool  place  in  a clean, 
dry,  bread  box,  which  has  been  washed,  dried  over  a little  heat  and  closed 
keep  out  any  particles  of  dust,  which  carry  germs,  producing  mold. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 

Recipe  1.  VERY  BEST  BREAD. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 


Have  the  bread  mixer  clean,  scalded 
and  screwed  in  place.  Low,  if  you 
wish  to  sit  down  to  use  it  and  high 
if  you  are  going  to  stand,  so  you  do 
not  have  to  stoop.  Put  the  milk  and 
water  into  the  stew  pan  and  bring  to 
the  scalding  point.  Pour  this  into  the 
mixer  and  let  cool  to  lukewarm.  Dis- 
solve the  yeast  in  half  a cup  of  luke- 
warm water,  add  a little  flour,  about 
two  or  three  teaspoonfuls,  cover  and  set 
this  to  rise,  while  the  milk  and  water 
mixture  is  cooling.  When  that  is  luke- 
warm, add  the  yeast  sponge,  and  only  5 cups  of  the  flour  all  at  once,  with  the 
salt.  It  is  better  to  add  the  remaining  cup  of  flour  as  you  see  that  it  is  needed, 
but  be  very  careful  and  not  put  in  too  much  flour  as  this  will  make  the  bread 
dry.  Now  turn  the  mixer  for  about  15  minutes,  then  if  it  is  still  sticky,  add 
the  remaining  flour,  half  a cup  at  a time  until  your  dough  is  just  right. 
It  is  kneading,  as  much  as  the  flour,  which  relieves  the  stickiness  and  makes 
it  smooth  and  springy  to  the  touch ; better  too  little,  rather  than  too  much 
flour.  About  20  or  30  minutes  is  usually  sufficient  for  this  kneading  in  the 
mixer,  then  cover  and  set  in  a warm  place.  Now  this  does  not  mean  hot, 
nor  in.  hot  water,  nor  on  a radiator  where  you  would  get  uneven  temperature, 
but  out  of  drafts,  in  a perfectly  Warm  place.  Let  rise  two  hours  or  until 
it  doubles  its  bulk,  or  breaks  down  and  leaves  a hole  when  you  place  your 
finger  into  it.  Have  your  pans  greased  and  warm  (not  hot),  and  divide  the 
dough  into  two  equal  parts,  shaping  lightly  into  loaves,  put  into  the  pans  and 


Water  1 Cup 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful 

Compressed  Yeast....  Cake 
Bread  Flour  6 Cups 

UTENSILS: 

Bread  Mixer  Measuring  Cup 

Stew  Pan  Measuring  Spoon 


BREAD  MAKING. 


9 


cover  with  greased  paper,  setting  in  the  same  careful  temperature  to  rise 
an  hour  or  until  it  has  doubled  its  bulk  and  the  pan  feels  light.  Now  with 
all  of  this  care,  bread  may 'be  spoiled  in  baking  if  you  do  not  understand 
your  oven.  Have  a hot  quick  baking  oven.  Put  in  the  bread  when  ready 
and  bake  for  15  minutes;  it  should  just  begin  to  have  a delicate  color.  Now 
lower  the  temperature  a little  so  that  it  is  a steady,  moderate  heat  and 
bake  it  for  this  sized  loaf  45  minutes.  Practice  is  the  only  sure  success  to- 
wards good  bread  making. 

If  you  desire  a stronger  flavor  to  your  bread,  knead  for  ten  minutes  after 
the  first  raising  and  let  rise  again.  This  takes  a little  longer  time  than  the 
first  process.  This  will  make  two  loaves  of  bread. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  4.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  2.  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 


Milk  1 Cup 

Molasses  % Cup 

Butter  2 Tablespoonfiils 

Yeast  Cake  1 Cake 

Water  (lukewarm)..  14  Cup 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

Graham  Flour 214  Cups 

White  Flour ll4  Cups 


UTENSILS: 

Stew  Pan  Large  White  Bowl 

Measuring  Cup  Bread  Pan 


Melt  the  butter  in  the  scalded 
milk.  Cool  to  lukewarm  and  add  all 
the  above  ingredients,  the  yeast  soft- 
ened in  the  water.  Beat  thoroughly 
and  set  aside  to  become  light;  then 
turn  into  a long,  narrow  pan,  and  when 
again  light  bake  about  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Do  not  let  the  dough 
become  too  light  after  turning  into 
the  bread  pans. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  3.  GRAHAM  AND  DATE  BREAD. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS 

Milk 1 Pint 

Porto  Rico  Molasses  14  Cup  o i j .li  -n  r i 

White  Flour 1V2  Cups  bcald  the  milk.  Remove  from  the 

Graham  Flour  3 Cups  fire,  cool  and  add  the  molasses  and  salt. 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful  Pour  into  the  bread  mixer,  and  when 

SiXfrm  Va?er‘  ;;  H Sp"  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  dissolved  in  the 

Dates 1 Cup  warm  water;  sift  m the  white  and  gra- 

ham flour,  and  beat  well  in  the  mixer. 
UTENSILS:  ^ warm  place  to  rise  (about  68° 

Mread  Mixer  Measuring  Cup  Fahr.)  until  it  doubles  its  bulk. 

Spatula  Measuring  Spoon  Beat  again  and  place  in  greased  bread 

Bread^Sieve  pans.  Let  rise,  and  bake  in  a moderate 

oven.  For  the  date  bread  add  the  dates 

cut  up  in  small  pieces  at  the  time  of 

the  second  mixing  or  beating.  Part 
English  walnuts  and  part  dates  may  be  used  for  this  bread,  which  is  very 
nice  for  school  sandwiches.  Bake  one  hour  in  a moderate  oven.  Remove 
from  the  pans  and  set  on  the  bread  sieve  to  cool  without  covering.  This 
recipe  will  make  two  loaves. 

All  measurements  level  and  flour  sifted  before  measuring. 


10 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  4.  DELICIOUS  BROWN  BREAD. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Rye  Meal i¥j  Cups 

Corn  Meal 1V2  Cups  Mix  the  meals  and  flour  well  to- 

Graham  Flour 1 Cup  gether ; dissolve  the  soda  in  a little 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful  boiling  water,  then  add  to  the  sour 

Soda  1 Teaspoonful  milk ; pour  in  molasses ; when  all  is 

Best  Porto  Rico  Mo-  well  mixed  add  to  the  meal  the  salt 

lasses  1 Cup  and  blend  all  together  thoroughly. 

Sour  Milk  or  Butter-  Pour  into  well-greased  Boston  Brown 

milk 3 Cups  Bread  molds,  quart  sizes,  put  on  the 

cover  and  steam  in  a steam  cooker 
UTENSILS:  three  hours,  uncover  and  bake  twenty 

Two  bowls  — one  Two  Bread  Molds  minutes.  If  you  do  not  have  the  steam 

large  and  one  small  Measuring  Cup  cooker,  set  into  a kettle  of  boiling 

Teaspoon  Wooden  Spoon  water  to  steam. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Kochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  6.  CORN 

Materials.  Measure. 

Cornmeal 1 Cup 

Flour  1 Cup 

Gran.  Sugar Vs  Cup 

Sour  Cream 1 Cup 

Eggs  2 

Soda V2  Teaspoonful 

Salt  V2  Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Baking  Pan  Measuring  Cup 

Egg  Beater  Measuring  Spoon 


BREAD. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Mix  and  sift  all  the  ingredients 
together.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  to  the 
cream  and  pour  gradually  into  the  dry 
mixture ; beat  all  well  together,  pour 
into  the  greased  baking  pan  and  bake 
in  a moderate  oven  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes. 


Recipe  6.  CLOVER  LEAF  ROLLS. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Milk 2 Cups 

Butter 3 Tablespoonfuls  ^ ...  . . , 

Sugar 2 Tablespoonfuls  Scald  the  milk  in  the  stew  pan  and 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful  add  the  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  the 

Yeast  ..  1 Cake  milk.  When  lukewarm  add  the  yeast 

cake  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  of 

UTENSILS*  lukewarm  water  and  gradually  add 

Stew  Pan  Measuring  Cup  about  three  cups  of  flour.  Beat  thor- 

Muffin  Pan  Tablespoon  oughly,  cover  and  let  rise  until  light 

Teaspoon  and  full  of  bubbles.  Cut  down  and  add 

flour  to  make  a stiff  dough ; knead  and 

let  rise  again  until  it  doubles  its  bulk, 

knead  lightly  and  pinch  off  three  small 
rolls  about  the  size  of  marbles ; dip  in  melted  butter  and  place  them  in  the 
space  for  one  muffln  in  a greased  muffin  pan.  Repeat  until  the  pans  are  full. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  granulated  sugar.  Cover,  let  rise  and  bake  from  15 
to  20  minutes  in  a hot  oven.  These  are  very  nice  for  afternoon  luncheons, 
inexpensive  and  very  easy  to  make. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  5.  Copyright,  1909,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


BREAD  MAKING. 


11 


Recipe  7. 


GLUTEN  BREAD. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  the  water  into  the  stew  pan 
and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  pour  into  the 
bread  mixer  and  cool  to  lukewarm. 
Dissolve  the  yeast  in  one-fourth  cup  of 
this  water  and  pour  into  the  mixer, 
then  the  flour  and  salt.  Turn  the  mixer 
until  the  dough  is  kneaded  thoroughly, 
15  or  20  minutes,  being  very  careful 
not  to  have  it  too  stiff.  Set  to  rise  in  a warm  place  (about  75°  Fahr.)  to 
become  light  or  double  its  bulk.  Knead  again  for  about  10  minutes,  form  into 
one  loaf  or  two  small  ones,  place  in  baking  pans,  cover  with  greased  paper 
to  exclude  the  air  and  let  rise  again  until  the  loaves  double  in  size.  Bake 
45  to  50  minutes  in  an  oven  not  quite  as  hot  as  for  ordinary  white  bread. 
When  done  remove  to  the  bread  cooler  so  the  air  can  circulate  all  around  it 
until  cold.  Keep  in  a dry  place  and  not  with  other  bread. 

Gluten  Bread  may  be  made  entirely  of  milk,  the  same  proportion  as  water, 
and  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  lightly  adding  sufficient  flour  until  it  will 
drop,  not  pour,  from  the  spoon.  Put  at  once  into  bread  pans  until  light 
and  bake  as  in  the  above  recipe.  This  bread  is  invaluable  in  all  cases  of 
diabetes,  dyspepsia,  obesity  and  rheumatism. 

All  measurements  level.  Flour  sifted  before  measuring. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Boiled  Water 2 Cups 

Compressed  Yeast  . % Cake 

Salt  ¥2  Teaspoonful 

Gluten  Flour 3%  Cups 

UTENSILS: 

Bread  Mixer  Bread  Cooler 

Two  Baking  Pans  Measuring  Cup 
Stew  Pan  Measuring  Spoon 


Recipe  8.  SOUR  MILK  GINGERBREAD. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Brown  Sugar  ¥2  Cup 

Best  Porto  Rico  Mo- 
lasses   ¥2  Cup 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful 

Cinnamon  ¥2  Teaspoonful 

Ginger 1 Teaspoonful 

Sour  Milk  1 Cup 

Soda 1 Teaspoonful 

Flour 2%  Cups 

UTENSILS: 

Stew  Pan  Wooden  Spoon 

Measuring  Cup  Measuring  Spoon 

Tablespoon  Shallow  Baking  Pan 

Pastry  Brush 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  except  the 
milk,  soda  and  flour  into  a stew  pan 
and  stand  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove 
where  it  will  just  slowly  warm,  and  as 
it  gradually  heats,  beat  until  foaming. 
Be  sure  and  do  not  let  it  get  hot.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  beat  in  the  sour 
milk  and  the  soda  dissolved  in  a table- 
spoonful of  boiling  water.  Gradually 
add  the  flour,  beating  well.  Grease  the 
shallow  pan,  pour  in  the  batter  and 
bake  in  a moderate  oven  until  done. 


A few  chopped  nuts  sprinkled  over  the 

top  as  it  is  put  into  the  oven  is  a very 
nice  addition.  Two  squares  of  grated  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water  and 
added  to  this  recipe  will  make  a nice  chocolate  gingerbread. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


12 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  9.  ENGLISH  MUFFINS. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Milk 1 Pint 

Butter 3 Tablespoonfuls 

Yeast 1 Cake 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful 


UTENSILS: 

Stew  Pan  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Cup  Muffin  Rings  or  Pan 


Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  butter, 
when  lukewarm  add  the  compressed 
yeast  dissolved  in  cup  of  warm 
water  and  salt.  Put  in  sufficient  flour 
to  make  a drop  batter,  beating  very 
well,  and  let  rise  for  two  hours ; heat 
and  grease  the  dripping  pan,  also  muf- 

fin  rings,  if  you  use  them,  placing  the 

latter  in  the  former  and  half  filling 
with  the  batter.  Bake  in  a moderate  oven  thirty  minutes  until  a nice  brown. 
If  you  use  muffin  pans,  heat  and  grease  them  also.  These  are  extremely  tasty, 
and  very  nice  toasted  and  served  very  hot.  If  you  do  not  have  muffin  rings 
use  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  iO.  POP-OVERS. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Pastry  Flour % Pint 

“i',''  ?e"‘noonfu1  without  separating, 

Eggs 2 unUl  wen  mixed,  and  light.  Add  the 

milk  to  the  eggs.  Into  another  bowl 
UTENSILS:  , put  the  flour,  add  the  salt  and  pour  into 

1 Pop-over  Pan  1 Wooden  Spoon  it  beating  all  the  while  milk  and  flour 

1 Puree  Sieve  1 B/ush  gradually  together.  Strain  this  batter 

^ ^ easunng  up  through  a sieve.  Have  well  heated  and 

buttered  iron  gem  or  pop-over  pans. 

Fill  two-thirds  full  with  this  batter  and 
bake  in  a moderate  oven  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  or  until  perfectly  light,  as 
they  will  surely  fall  if  not  perfectly  done.  It  is  very  important  to  heat  the 
pop-over  pans  as  the  desired  lightness  must  be  secured  by  steady  heat  from 
the  bottom  at  the  very  beginning  of  baking. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  11.  CORN-MEAL 

Materials.  Measure. 

Sour  Milk  or  Butter- 
milk   1 Cup 

Corn  Meal 1V2  Cups 

Flour % Cup 

Salt  % Teaspoonful 

Soda  1 Teaspoonful 

Eggs  2 

UTENSILS: 

Ste^l  Griddle  Teaspoon 

Cake  Turner  Tablespoon 

Bowl  Egg  Beater 


GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

DIRECTIONS. 


Beat  the  eggs  well  in  the  bowl 
without  separating,  adding  the  milk 
with  the  soda  dissolved  in  a table- 
spoonful of  boiling  water. 

Mix  in  the  remaining 
and  bake  on  hot  steel  griddle. 


ingredients 


BREAD  MAKING. 


13 


Recipe  12.  GRAHAM  GEMS. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Milk 1 Pint 

Salt  1 Level  Teasp’ful 

Melted  Butter  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Graham  Flour  3 Cups  sifted 

Eggs  3 

Raking  Powder  ....  2 Rounding  Tea- 

spoonfuls 

UTENSILS: 

Egg  Beater 
Measuring  Cup 
Wooden  Spoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add 
them  to  the  milk,  then  the  butter  and 
hour.  Beat  very  hard.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a stiff  froth  and  add  these  with  the 
baking  powder  to  the  batter.  Mix 
carefully  and  bake  in  gem  pans  in  a 
quick  oven  thirty  minutes.  One  cup 
of  boiled  rice  and  one-half  cup  of 
chopped  dates  may  be  added  to  this 
recipe  and  you  v/ill  have  a very  nice 
change.  In  adding  the  rice  use  one- 
half  cup  less  of  flour. 


Gem  Pans 
Teaspoon 
Two  Bowls 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs,  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  13.  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Compressed  Yeast  ..  V2  Cake 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  one-half  cup 

Melted  Butter  1 Teaspoonful  r 1 1 j.  • v • a-  a.u 

Molasses  1 Tablespoonful  ^f  lukewarm  water,  pouring  it  into  the 

Water  2 Quarts  pitcher  v/ith  two  quarts  of  water  the 

Buckwheat  Flour  . . same  temperature.  Make  a smooth 

Baking  Soda V2  Teaspoonful  batter,  which  will  run  from  the  spoon, 

from  the  best  buckwheat  flour,  at  the 
UTENSILS:  same  time  adding  the  salt.  Beat  well 

Steel  Pancake  Measuring  Cup  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 

Griddle  Teaspoon  ing  take  out  a pint  of  the  mixture  and 

Pitcher  Tablespoon  side.  Now  put  into  the 

a e urner  pitcher  the  remaining  ingredients. 

Mix  lightly  all  together  and  bake  on  a 

hot  griddle. 

If  there  is  any  left  after  baking  add  the  pint  to  it  which  has  been  set  to 
one  side,  and  the  night  before  using  pour  in  a pint  of  lukewarm  water,  add 
the  salt  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  the  batter  as  previously  directed,  and 
proceed  as  before,  except  now  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  dis- 
solved in  a little  boiling  water  and  stirred  in  carefully  just  before  baking. 
Always  save  out  some  batter  the  first  thing  in  the  morning  for  the  next 
baking.  If  some  white  flour  is  desired  simply  lesson  the  quantity  of  buck- 
wheat but  these  cakes  eaten  occasionally  will  cause  no  trouble. 

Making  the  batter  in  this  way  may  be  continued  for  a week  if  kept  in 
a cool  place,  then  if  any  is  left  it  should  be  thrown  out  and  start  fresh  again. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  Ro.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


14 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


CAKES. 


(Including  Butter  Cakes,  Sponge  Cakes,  Layer  Cakes,  Loaf  Cakes,  Fruit 
Cakes,  Cookies,  Fillings  and  Icings.) 

“ The  character  of  all  work  depends  upon  the  intelligence  of  the  person  who  performs  it.” 

All  measurements  level  unless  otherwise  stated.  Flour  sifted  before 
measuring. 

There  are  only  two  kinds  of  cakes — butter  cakes  and  sponge  cakes,  and 
they  must  be  considered  separately  as  to  the  manner  in  which  they  are  put  to- 
gether and  in  baking.  All  butter  cakes  are  stirred  or  beaten ; for  all  sponge 
cakes,  a motion  called  “ cut  ” or  “ fold  in  ” is  used.  This  refers  to  the  manner 
in  which  the  flour  and  sugar  are  put  into  the  cake.  One  stroke  too  much  in 
sponge  or  angel  cakes  only  toughens  them. 

There  are  three  things  very  necessary  in  cake  making. 

First — material,  which  should  be  the  very  best  butter,  freshest  eggs,  fine 
granulated  cane  sugar,  pastry  flour  and  pure  cream  of  tartar  baking  powder. 

Second — putting  the  materials  properly  together. 

Creaming  the  butter,  gradually  adding  the  sugar  and  then  alternating  with 
whatever  liquid  is  used  and  flour.  Whites  of  eggs  if  used,  beaten  stiff,  and 
then  the  baking  powder.  This  is  only  a general  principle  and  all  depends  upon 
the  texture  desired  in  the  cakes. 

Third — this  is  the  most  difficult  task  of  all,  and  it  is  knowing  how  to  man- 
age the  oven. 

If  I say  “ a moderate  oven,”  that  may  mean  one  thing  to  me  and  another 
to  you.  The  same  is  true  of  any  other  temperature  and  nine-tenths  of  the 
failures  in  cake  making  come  through  not  understanding  the  proper  relation 
of  heat  to  the  cake  in  the  oven.  Oven  thermometers  are  coming  into  common 
use  and  will  no  doubt  prove  very  helpful.  There  is  no  such  thing  as  luck  in 
cake  baking.  There  must  be  accuracy  in  measurements  with  all  the  other 
qualifications  named.  Cake  baking  is  a science.  Science  is  exact  knowledge. 
Know  the  very  best  ways  of  doing,  follow  your  recipe  accurately  and  with 
some  knowledge  of  the  laws  of  heat  in  the  oven  and  success  is  assured. 

Never  remove  a cake  from  the  pan  until  perfectly  cold. 

Never  use  a greased  pan. 

Use  the  best  cream  of  tartar  baking  powder. 

See  that  all  utensils  and  materials  are  ready  for  use  before  beginning  your 
cake. 

Use  as  few  utensils  as  possible  to  insure  good  work. 

Be  neat  and  orderly  in  your  work  and  do  not  scatter  flour  and  spill 
materials. 

^ A cake  made  with  water  instead  of  milk  will  be  more  tender  and  keep 
moist  longer. 

To  be  a successful  cake-maker  one  should  make  cake  often,  at  least  once  . 
a week,  until  you  have  mastered  the  general  principles  involved  in  it  and  then 
good  judgment  and  brains  must  be  mixed  with  every  cake  to  insure  success. 

Cakes  without  butter  require  a very  moderate  oven ; in  fact,  start  with 
barely  a warm  oven  until  raised  to  its  full  height;  then  increase  slightly  to 
brown. 

Cakes  with  butter  require  a moderately  hot  oven. 

Layer  cakes  are  baked  more  quickly  than  loaf  cakes. 


f Photop^rapbefl  e^pccir'lly  for  this  I'ook.) 

No.  2.  DISHES  TO  RE  USED  IN  IXEORMAT.  DINNER  EOEEOWING  TABLE 
L.UD  EOR  SOUP  COURSE  AS  SHOWN  IN  NO.  1. 

Note  convenience  and  care  in  arranj^einent  of  the  dishes  to  l)e  used  for  the  re- 
mainder of  this  dinner.  It  saves  a great  deal  of  time  and  anxiety  to  have  every  dish 
in  readiness  for  use  and,  at  the  same  time,  this  table  should  be  as  attractive  as  the 
dining  tabic.  P'or  time  saving  this  table  may  be  drawn  up  close  to  tlie  hostess  where 
she  may  easily  reach  many  things  without  rising  from  the  dining  table. 


CAKES. 


15 


All  molasses  cakes  and  gingerbreads  require  a moderate  oven  as  they 
burn  easily. 

Steam  fruit  cakes,  when  possible,  and  finish  half  an  hour  in  a moderate 
oven  to  brown. 

The  “ one,  two,  three,  four  cake  ” used  by  our  grandmothers  is  really  the 
mother  of  all  butter  cakes  used  today,  while  the  sponge  cake  is  the  foundation 
from  which  angel  food  and  sunshine  cakes  are  derived. 

Certain  proportions  are  used  as  guides  in  all  butter  cakes ; there  is  less 
sugar  than  flour  and  less  butter  than  sugar.  Where  no  eggs  are  used  more 
baking  powder  is  necessary.  For  instance,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
is  sufficient  for  each  cup  of  flour  if  several  eggs  are  used.  Do  not  use  too 
much  baking  powder  as  the  cake  is  likely  to  be  coarse  grained  and  dry  quickly. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  have  so  many  recipes  as  it  is  to  obtain  changes  in 
flavoring  and  filling. 


Recipe  1. 


LAYER  CAKE. 


Materials. 

Butter 

Gran.  Sugar 

Lukewarm  Water  . . 

Pastry  Flour 

Eggs  

Cream  of  Tartar. . . . 
Baking  Powder 


Measure. 

V2  Cup 
1%  Cups 

1 Cup 
2V2  Cups 
Whites  of  4 

2 Rounding  Tea- 
spoonfuls 


UTENSILS: 

Two  Bowls  Teaspoon 

Wooden  Spoon  Spatula 

Egg  Beater  Cake  Pans 

Measuring  Cup 


DIRECTIONS. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a cream,  add 
the  sugar  slowly,  beating  both  until . 
creamy.  Gradually  add  the  water,  then 
the  flour  in  the  same  way.  Beat  thor- 
oughly ; then  add  the  well-beaten 
Avhites  of  the  eggs  and  the  baking  pow- 
der, folded  in  gently  but  quickly.  Put 
at  once  in  ungreased  Van  Deusen  cake 
pans  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  Invert  the  pan  and  let  it 
remain  until  cool.  Remove  from  the 


pans  and  put  together  with  any  de- 
sired filling.  Use  the  spatula  to  remove  every  particle  of  batter  in  the 


bowl. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Cn.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  2. 

Materials. 


MAPLE  SNOW  CAKE. 

Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 


Gran.  Sugar  1V2  Cups 

Butter  V2  Cup 

Pastry  Flour  2%  Cups 

Lukewarm  Water  . . 1 Cup 

Eggs 2 

Baking  Powder 4 Teaspoonfuls 

UTENSILS: 

One  Long  Cake  Pan  Mixing  Bowl 
Wooden  Spoon  Measuring  Cup 

Spatula  Flour  Sieve 

Egg  Beater 


Put  the  butter  into  the  mixing 
bowl  and  with  wooden  spoon  beat  un- 
til creamy,  add  gradually  the  sugar, 
then  the  yolks  which  have  been  beaten 
until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  Meas- 
ure the  flour  and  put  into  the  flour 
sifter,  then  measure  the  water  and  al- 
ternate in  adding  to  the  mixture.  Beat 
this  thoroughly  and  then  cut  and  fold 
in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs  and 
the  baking  powder.  Bake  in  an  oblong 
pan. 


K) 


PHE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Filling. 

Cook  one  pint  of  maple  syrup  and  one-fourth  cup  of  butter  until  it  forms 
a soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Just  before  the  syrup  is  cooked 
enough  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water  to  one-half  pound  of  marshmallows 
and  set  them  over  the  hot  water.  When  they  are  melted  beat  them  into 
the  syrup  niixture  and  continue  until  cool  and  stiff  enough  to  remain  on 
the  cake.  This  should  be  soft  and  creamy  and  cut  without  cracking.  Spread 
all  over  the  cake  and  cover  thickly  with  freshly  grated  cocoanut. 

All  measurements  level  unless  otherwise  stated. 


Recipe  3. 

Materials. 

Eggs  2 

Sugar  % Cup 

Butter % Cup 

Molasses  % Cup 

Sour  Milk  V2  Cup 

Flour 1%  Cups 

Cinnamon  1 Teaspoonful 

Cloves  V2  Teaspoonful 

Nutmeg  

Raisins  Cup 

Soda  1 Teaspoonful 

Walnut  Meats  

UTENSILS: 

Dover  Egg  Beater  Bowl 
Teaspoon  Muffin  Pans 

Tablespoon  Food  Chopper 

Measuring  Cup 


DIRECTIONS. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  grad- 
ually beating  in  the  sugar,  butter  soft- 
ened and  all  the  other  ingredients.  Dis- 
solve the  soda  in  a tablespoonful  of 
boiling  water,  adding  to  the  milk  and 
then  to  the  molasses.  Fold  in  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  raisins 
and  nuts ; bake  in  small  pans  or  gem 
pans;  cover  with  boiled  frosting  and 
decorate  with  ribbons  of  chocolate 


icing. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


MAY  CAKES. 

Measure. 


Recipe  4. 

Materials. 

Butter 1 Cup 

Sugar 1V2  Cups 

Eggs  3 

Soda  1 Teaspoonful 

Hot  Water 1 Tablespoonful 

Flour 3^  Cups 

Cinnamon  1 Teaspoonful 

English  Walnuts 

(chopped)  1 Cup 

Currants V2  Cup 

Seeded  Raisins  ....  V2  Cup 
UTENSILS: 

Two  Bowls  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Cup  Teaspoon 

Wooden  Spoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar 
gradually  and  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
the  soda  dissolved  in  the  water.  Then 
mix  in  half  the  flour  with  the  cinna- 
mon sifted  in  it. 

Lastly  add  walnuts  chopped,  fruit 
and  the  remaining  flour.  Drop  by  tea- 
spoonfuls at  least  one  inch  apart  and 
bake  in  a moderate  oven. 


FRUIT  DROPS. 

Measure. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  liochestcr,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


CAKES. 


17 


Recipe  5.  TEA 

Materials.  Measure. 

Butter V'l  Cup 

Sugar 1 Cup 

Lukewarm  Water  or 

Milk V-2  Cup 

flour. 2 Cups 

£ggs  2 

Nutmeg  Va  Teaspoonful 

Baking  Powder  ...  2 Teaspoonfuls 

UTENSILS: 

Two  Bowls  Wooden  Spoon 

Teaspoon  Measuring  Cup 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card 
Published  by  Yawman  & 
Copyright,  IbUG,  by 


CAKES. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Beat  the  butter  to  a cream.  Add 
gradually  the  sugar,  then  the  milk  or 
water,  and  the  flour,  now  beating  well. 
Add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  nutmeg  and 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  heart-shaped 
pans  and  ice  with  pink  icing.  Or, 
bake  in  gem  pans  and  serve  plain. 

Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Elbe  Mf.g.  Co,  Rochester,  N.  Y,  ' 

Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


LOAF  CAKE. 

DIRECTIONS. 


Recipe  6.  WHITE 

Materials.  Measure. 

Butter '. ..  % Cup 

Pastry  Flour 2 Cups 

Gran.  Sugar ll4  Cups 

Whites  of  Eggs  ....  6 
Grated  rind  and 
juice  of  Lemon  . . Vi  Lemon 
Soda  ^/4  Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Mixing  Bowl  Cake  Pan 

Wooden  Spoon  Flour  Sifter 

Egg  Beater 


Beat  the  butter  to  a cream,  then 
gradually  beat  in  the  flour  sifted  two 
or  three  times  with  the  soda.  Beat 
the  whites  of  eggs  dry  and  gradually 
beat  in  the  sugar.  Now  beat  this  a 
little  at  a time  into  the  butter  and 
flour  mixture  and  at  the  last  the  lemon. 

Line  the  bottom  of  the  cake  pan 
with  buttered  paper,  grease  the  re- 
mainder of  the  pan,  pour  in  the  batter 
and  hake  in  a steady  but  not  too  hot 
oven  in  the  beginning,  for  about  45 
minutes  or  until  done. 


Recipe  7.  AFTERNOON  MARGUERITES. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Whites  of  Eggs 2 

Sugar  1 Cup 

Water  14  Cup 

Vanilla  14  Teaspoonful 

Chopped  Nut  Meats  1 Cup 
Unsalted  Wafers  .. 

Raspberry  Jam 

UTENSILS: 

Stew  Pan  Spatula 

Flat  Egg  Beater  Dripping  Pan 


DIRECTIONS. 

Spread  the  wafers  thickly  with 
raspberry  jam.  Make  a boiled  icing  of 
the  eggs,  sugar  and  water.  Flavor 
and  add  nuts.  Spread  thickly  over  the 
jam  and  bake  in  a very  moderate  oven 
until  a delicate  brown. 

Boiled  Icing. 


• Into  the  stew  pan  put  the  sugar 

and  water,  place  over  the  fire  and  stir 
until  dissolved.  Boil  it  until  it  will  spin  a thread  between  the  thumb  and 
forefinger.  Have  ready  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  pour  this  hot 
syrup  slowly  over  them,  beating  all  the  while  and  so  continue  until  cold. 
Add  the  vanilla,  beat  well  again  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  The  following  fill- 
ings may  also  be  used  for  a change  for  Marguerites: 

2—2 


18 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Fig  Filling. 

Boil  one  cup  of  chopped  figs  and  one  tablespoonful  each  of  water  and 
sugar  until  a paste.  Spread  between  layer  with  cream  filling  on  top.  Add 
the  other  layer  and  cover  with  plain  cream  filling. 

Nut  Filling. 

Chop  one  cup  of  pecans  or  English  walnuts  and  add  to  half  of  the  cream 
filling  and  between  layers  and  the  remaining  filling  on  top.  Decorate  with 
' halves  of  the  nut  meats. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbc  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  8.  LEMON  COOKIES. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Butter 1 Cup  Squeeze  the  lemon  juice  into  a cup, 

and  put  in  sufficient  water  to  make  the 

^ ^ of  Tlemon  Cream  the  butter  and 

Eggs  2 sugar,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  mix  well, 

Baking  Powder 2 Teaspoonfuls  add  the  water  and  other  ingredients. 

Rind  of  Lemon  (grated)  Mix  with  flour  as  soft  as  can  be  rolled, 

UTENSILS:  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cut  and  bake  in  a 

Measuring  Cup  Wooden  Spoon  quick  oven.  A raisin,  nut  or  cherry 

Lemon  Squeezer  Moulding  Board  ^ . .l  • .l  r 

Mixing  Bow!  Rolling  Pin  may  be  put  in  the  center  of  each 

Egg  Beater  Spatula  cookie. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 

Recipe  9.  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Butter 1V2  lbs.  Beat  the  butter  until  very  creamy, 

i%lbs.  slowly  add  the  sugar,  beating  all 

CufranVs  .!.!!.!!.!.  " 1V2  lbs  time.  Whip  the  whites  until  very 

Raisins  1V2  lbs.  stiff  and  mix  with  the  sugar  and  butter. 

Shelled  Almonds  ..  % lb.  Beat  the  yolks  for  ten  minutes  as  they 

; % lb.  must  be  very  light  and  creamy.  Add 

^Orange  P?e1”each  ^ lb.  them  to  the  mixture  then  gradually  sift 

Powdered  Mace % SaltspTul  " in  the  flour,  beating  well  all  the  time, 

Nutmeg  ^ ^ Saltsp’ful  and  as  much  as  possible  while  adding 

mmir  Pint  3II  remaining  ingredients  : the  cur- 

Canffied  yjlE  ^^"^s  cleaned  by  washing  and  rubbing 

dry  in  a towel  to  get  out  all  the  little 
UTENSILS:  stems;  buy  the  seeded  raisins,  put 

Large  Mixing  Bowl  Flour  Sifter  through  the  food  chopper,  also  the  al- 

Wo^oden"' Spoon  MeasuHn°gTup  monds,  citron,  lemon  and  orange  peel. 

Pastry  Brush  Cake  Pans  Slice  the  candied  cherries,  and  lastly 

add  any  kind  of  fruit  juice,  raspberry 

being  especially  nice.  Line  three  long, 
narrow  cake  pans  with  paper,  butter  well  and  divide  the  cake  mixture,  baking 
in  a very  slow  oven  three  hours,  or  cover  and  steam'  for  two  hours  and  bake 
one  and  one-half  hours;  the  latter  makes  a much  more  moist  cake.  This 
cake  will  keep  indefinitely.  This  recipe  will  make  8^4  lbs.  of  fruit  cake. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


CAKES. 


19 


Recipe  10. 


LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE. 


Material*. 


Measure.  Weight. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Sugar  . . . 

Flour  

Butter  . .. 
Rich  Milk 


Cream  of  Tartar. ...  2 


Soda  1 

Filling 

Raisins  1 

Citron  1 


Small  Cocoanut  . . . . 1 
Blanched  Almonds.. 
Boiled  Icing 


2 Cups 

3 Cups 
% Cup 
V2  Cup 

Teaspoonfuls 
Teaspoonful 

Cup 
Piece 

^4  lb. 


UTENSILS: 

Measuring  Cup  Egg  Beater 

Measuring  Spoon  ‘Flour  Sifter 
Mixing  Bowl  Four  Layer  Cake 

Wooden  Spoon  Pans 


Cream  the  butter  and  gradually 
add  half  the  sugar,  beating  the  remain- 
ing sugar  into  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 
Sift  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  twice 
through  the  flour  and  gradually  add 
this,  alternating  with  the  milk.  Cut 
and  fold  in  th^  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Divide  this  mixture  and 
flavor  half  with  rose  and  into  the  other 
half  is  stirred  one  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla, lemon  or  almond.  Bake  in  four 
layers,  two  of  white  and  two  of  spice. 
Make  the  boiled  icing  by  Recipe  No. 
7 cake,  and  beat  into  it  all  the  filling 
ingredients,  raisins  seeded  and  cut  fine. 


. citron  shaved  thin,  and  the  almonds 

left  to  put  on  top  of  cake.  Blanch  the 
almonds  by  letting  them  stand  in  cold  water  several  hours.  Remove  the 
skins  and  put  into  an  oven  to  dry.  When  the  cakes  are  cool,  spread  the  mix- 
ture thickly  between  them  and  finish  the  top  one,  which  should  be  white, 
with  powdered  sugar  sprinkled  over  it  and  the  almonds  stuck  in  end-wise. 
This  is  a genuine  southern  recipe  but  is  not  so  considered  if  the  top  is  frosted 
as  is  sometimes  done. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  4.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs,  Alice  Gitchell  Ivirlj, 


Recipe  11.  LEMON  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS 

Eggs  5 

Jihl^and  rind  of  one  ^ ^ Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until 

Lemon  perfectly  dry.  Beat  the  yolks  very 

Elour Cups  light  and  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar 

and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  the 
_ UTENSILS:  lemon,  cut  and  fold  in  half  of  the 

kX?  -Wtes,  then  half  of  the  flour,  and  the 

Grater  Bowl  remaining  whites  and  flour.  Bake  in 

Cake  Pan  a Turk’s  Head  pan  fifty  minutes. 

Cover  with  boiled  frosting.  Vary  this 

..  cake  by  baking  in  an  open  mold  and 

filling  the  center  with  sliced  peaches, 
pears  or  any  desired  fruits.  Serve  as  a dessert  with  whipped  cream  piled 
high  in  the  center  of  the  peaches,  and  garnished  with  slices  of  peaches. 
Pass  whipped  cream  with  this  dessert.  This  is  very  nice  served  at  luncheon. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


20 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 

GOLDEN  LOAF  SUGAR. 


Recipe  12. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Egg  Yolks 8 

Gran.  Sugar  P/4  Cups 

Butter  % Cup 

Water  Vs  Cup 

Milk Ys  Cup 

Pastry  Flour 2V2  Cups 

Cream  of  Tartar  ...  1 Teaspoonful 

Soda Y2  Teaspoonful 

Vanilla  1 Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Mixing  Bowl  Slotted  Wooden 

Measuring  Cup  Spoon 

Cake  Pan  Measuring  Spoon 

Egg  Beater 


DIRECTIONS. 

Cream  the  butter;  gradually  add 
the  sugar;  beat  the  yolks  until  light; 
add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  very 
light.  Add  this  to  the  butter  mixture 
and  stir  thoroughly.  Now  alternate 
with  the  milk,  flour,  water,  and  flavor- 
ing at  the  last.  Bake  in  a moderate 
oven  from  30  to  50  minutes. 


Recipe  13. 


EASY  ANGEL  CAKE. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Whites  of  Eggs....  1 Cup 

Gran.  Sugar  IY2  Cup 

Flour 1 Cup 

Cream  of  Tartar  ...  1 Teaspoonful 

Flavoring  1 Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Loaf  Cake  Pan  Measuring  Cup 

Measuring  Spoon  Flour  Sifter 

Flat  Wire  Beater  Large  Platter 


DIRECTIONS. 

Measure  the  flour  and  sift  several 
times  on  a piece  of  paper;  then  in  the 
same  way  the  sugar.  Break  the  whites 
of  eggs  into  a cup  and  when  full  empty 
into  a platter,  beat  until  foamy,  add 
cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  stiff; 
gradually  cut  and  fold  in  the  sugar  and 
flour.  At  this  point  be  sure  you  do 
not  beat  nor  stir  but  with  your  flat 
beater  cut  and  fold  as  directed.  When 


the  flour  is  nearly  in  add  the  flavoring.  Pour  into  a new  cake  pan  or  one 
that  has  never  been  greased  and  bake  in  a very  moderate  oven  from  25  to 
30  minutes. 


Recipe  14.  CREAM  FILLING  OR  BOILED  ICING. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Sugar  1 Cup 

Water  Y2  Cup  Put  the  sugar  and  water  on  the 

Whites  of  Eggs  2 stove.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 

Lemon  Juice 1 Teaspoonful  Boil  until  it  will  spin  a thread.  Have 

ready  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the 

tttttmqttq.  slowly 

^ ^ over  them,  beating  all  the  while,  and 

Saucepan  Tablespoon  so  continue  until  cold.  Add  the  lemon 

Measuring  Cup  Egg  Beater  and  flavoring;  beat  well  again.  Put 

Teaspoon  between  and  on  top  of  layers. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


CAKES. 


Recipe  15.  SUNSHINE  CAKE. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Whites  of  Eggs  ....  7 

Yolks  of  Eggs 5 

Gran.  Sugar  iM  Cups 

Cream  of  Tartar  .. . ^ Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Two  Bowls  Egg  Beater 

Measuring  Cup  Measuring  Spoon 

Baking  Pan 


DIRECTIONS. 

Have  all  the  material  ready.  Meas- 
ure and  sift  the  flour  several  times. 
Do  the  same  with  the  sugar.  Separate 
the  eggs  putting  whites  into  one  bowl 
and  yolks  into  another;  beat  yolks 
light  and  stiff,  beat  whites  until  foamy. 
Add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  very  stiff. 
Cut  and  fold  in  the  sugar  and  add  the 
yolks  and  flavoring;  now  fold  in  the 
flour  and  pour  into  an  angel  cake  pan 
and  bake  in  a moderate  oven  45  to  50 
minutes. 


Recipe  16.  MOCHA  FILLING. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Butter 1 Tablespoouful 

Black  Coffee 2 Tablespoonfuls  Prepare  the  coffee  as  usual,  ex- 

Powdered  Sugar  ...  1%  Cups  cept  allow  double  the  amount  always 

Chopped  Nuts  ....  V2  Cup  for  black  coffee.  Cool.  Beat  the  butter 

Yolks  of  Eggs 2 to  a cream,  add  the  yolks  and  beat 

well,  then  the  coffee  and  gradually  the 
sugar,  beating  well  all  the  while.  Mix 
UTENSILS:  in  nuts,  which  are  chopped  medium 

Measuring  Cup  Tablespoon  fine.  Now  (Recipe  1,  Cake).  Or  the 

Small  Wire  Egg  Food  Chopper  nuts  may  be  put  into  the  layer  cakes 

Beater  Bowl  instead  of  the  filling. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 


Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Oo.,  Rochester,  X.  Y, 
Supplemental  Set  No.  3.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


MARSHMALLOW  FILLING. 

Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 


Recipe  17. 

Materials. 

Marshmallows 1 lb. 

Water  M Cup 

Whites  of  Eggs  ....  2 

Vanilla 1 Teaspoonful 

Lemon  Juice 1 Teaspoonful 


UTENSILS: 

Double  Boiler  Teaspoon 

Egg  Beater  Measuring  Cup 

Bowl  Lemon  Squeezer 


Put  half  the  marshmallows  into  a 
double  boiler  with  the  water  over  the 
fire  until  melted.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  until  very  stiff  and  gradually 
pour  over  the  marshmallows  (melted). 
Flavor  and  put  between  the  cake.  The 
remaining  half  of  marshmallows  may 
be  put  into  the  oven  until  they  swell 
but  do  not  brown.  Put  them  on  top 
of  the  cake  and  pour  boiled  filling  over 
them. 


22 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  18.  CREAM  MAPLE  FILLING. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Maple  Syrup 2 Cups 

Cream 2 Tablespoonfuls  Cook  the  maple  syrup  until  it  is  al- 

Vanilia  6 Drops  most  ready  to  “thread,”  then  add  the 

cream  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point. 
UTENSILS:  Beat  very  thoroughly  until  it  begins 

Saucepan  Food  Chopper  or  to  grow  thick  ; add  minced  walnuts  or 

Measuring  Cup  Chopping  Bowl  hickory  nut  meats.  This  should  be 

Tablespoon  and  Knife  thin  enough  to  run  over  the  cake. 


Recipe  19.  CHOCOLATE  ICING. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Baker’s  Chocolate..  2 Squares 

Milk  V2  Cup 

Butter 1 Teaspoonful 

Vanilla 1 Teaspoonful 

XXX  Sugar 

UTENSILS: 

Double  Boiler  Teaspoon 

Measuring  Cup  Spatula  or  Knife 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  chocolate  and  milk  in  a double 
boiler;  when  hot  add  butter;  take  from 
the  fire  and  when  perfectly  cold  add 
sufficient  sugar  for  spreading;  add 
vanilla. 


MEATS. 

(Including  Roasts,  Steaks,  Chops,  Irish  Stews,  Poultry  and  Dressings.) 


“ Enough  is  as  good  as  a feast.” 

“ Most  of  the  want  and  much  of  the  misery  in  this  world  may  trace  its  begin- 
ning to  lack  of  early  training  in  the  fundamentals  of  self  development,  character 
building  and  thrift,  using  the  world  in  its  best  sense.” — Good  Housekeeping. 

(All  Measurements  Level.) 

The  people  of  this  nation  live  under  intense  excitement  and  energy,  and 
with  this  great  mental  activity  which  really  seems  necessary  in  this  age, 
meats,  at  least  in  small  quantities,  should  be  used  for  quick  results.  We  are 
living,  however,  in  a vegetable  period  and  not  a meat  period,  or  more  correctly 
speaking,  we  are  just  coming  into  it. 

Where  one  demands  meat  and  another  vegetables  much  depends  largely 
upon  the  life  they  live.  In  a vegetable  diet  of  the  right  sort  followed  with  less 
rapid  living  there  is  nothing  better. 

Pork  should  never  be  used  by  anyone  who  desires  the  best  of  food,  but 
there  can  be  no  laws  laid  down  as  to  what  one  should  or  should  not  eat.  Think 
for  yourself,  investigate  and  study  the  best  authorities  on  the  subject. 

Find  out  the  foods  with  the  combinations  best  suited  to  your  particular 
needs  and  manner  of  living  and  then  live  as  near  to  this  standard  as  possible. 

In  the  ordinary  family  the  greater  part  of  the  muscle  building  and  re- 
pairing of  waste  tissues  is  probably  furnished  by  meat.  If  all  the  women 
knew  how  to  buy  and  cook  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  it  would  help  to  keep 
down  the  prices  of  the  more  expensive  cuts,  besides,  giving  the  family  a larger 
percentage  of  nutrition.  Most  cooking  of  meat  has  been  too  rapid.  “ Get  a 
mea!  quickly”  has  been  the  housewife’s  cry.  Yes,  and  empty  your  purse 
quickly  at  the  same  time,  has  been  the  result. 

While  it  is  true  the  better  the  piece  of  meat  the  better  the  result,  as  a 
general  thing  it  is  possible  and  desirable  in  the  average  family  to  save  expense 


MEATS. 


23 


where  it  may  be  done  without  serious  loss.  Wise  buying  and  careful  cooking 
applies  particularly  to  meats.  Good  meat  may  be  spoiled  by  poor  cooking  and, 
on  the  other  hand,  an  inferior  piece  of  meat  can  be  made  exceedingly  palat- 
able by  knowing  just  how  to  cook  it.  All  sorts  of  good  appetizing  dishes  may 
be  prepared  from  the  so-called  cheaper  cuts  of  meats.  Never  drop  meat  from 
your  bill  of  fare  unless  you  can  supply  the  proper  elements  to  nourish  and 
sustain  the  body  through  other  foods. 

The  housekeeper  who  does  her  own  marketing  should  know  how  to  buy 
not  only  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meats  but  the  better  ones  as  well.  This  practical 
knowledge  of  marketing  on  the  part  of  the  housekeeper  affects  to  a marked 
degree  both  the  comfort  and  the  expense  book  of  the  family.  Intelligence  and 
skill  in  buying  are  only  secured  by  careful  practice  and  the  purchaser  must 
not  be  afraid  to  ask  questions  or  show  her  ignorance  when  necessary.  Most 
men  in  the  markets  will  be  found  courteous  and  helpful  if  you  will  only  let 
your  wants  be  known.  If  your  meals  are  planned  ahead,  and  they  should  be, 
more  than  a single  day’s  orders  may  be  purchased  ahead.  This  saves  time 
and  energy  as  the  meat  is  the  basis  upon  which  the  remainder  of  the  meal  is 
planned. 


Recipe  1.  ROAST  BEEF. 

To  roast  a piece  of  beef  perfectly  is  no  small  art  and  yet  so  little  has  to 
be  remembered  to  do  it  well. 

The  oven  should  be  very  hot. 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a wet  or  damp  cloth ; place  it  in  the  baking  pan,  add- 
ing one  teaspoonful  of  salt  (not  over  the  meat)  and  enough  boiling  water  to 
keep  the  pan  from  burning.  Sear  well  over  the  top.  When  this  is  done,  lower 
the  fire  to  a hot  oven,  dust  the  meat  with  pepper  and  baste  often  until  done. 
This  will  require  about  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound,  or  longer  if  it  is  liked 
better  done,  although  the  best  juices  and  sweetness  of  the  meat  are  lost  by 
over-cooking. 

Two  things  must  be  kept  clearly  in  mind  and  these  are : — first,  have  the 
oven  hot;  second,  when  the  meat  should  be  basted,  baste  and  let  nothing  in- 
terfere. 

Another  way  is  to  have  a covered  roaster.  Then  the  meat  is  put  in  dry 
and  it  is  self-basting,  which  does  away  with  much  extra  work. 

Again,  a roast  may  be  placed  in  the  baking  attachment  of  the  Fireless 
Cooker  and  with  the  soap  stones  heated  and  all  covered  closely  with  the  hood, 
the  roasting  will  be  perfectly  done  without  heat  in  the  kitchen  and  the  house- 
wife free  to  do  as  she  chooses. 


Recipe  2.  ROAST  BEEF. 

DIRECTIONS. 


Under  all  circumstances,  whether 
you  burn  coal,  wood  or  gas,  heat  the 
oven  to  a very  hot  temperature  before 
putting  in  the  roast.  Select  a good 
rib  roast — two  ribs  make  a very  nice 
roast — of  five  or  six  pounds.  This 
may  be  boned  and  rolled,  the  bones 
sent  home  with  the  meat  to  be  used 


Materials.  Weight. 

Roast  of  Beef 5 or  6 lbs. 

Salt  

Pepper  

UTENSILS: 

Covered  Baking  Pan  Basting  Spoon 
Long  Handled  Fork 


2A 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


for  soups  or  gravies.  If  boned,  it  is  rolled  with  a piece  of  suet  and  tied;  this 
is  a much  better  way  than  using  skewers  as  they  are  in  the  way  when  carv- 
ing and  difficult  to  remove.  There  are  two  terms,  “ roasting  ” and  “ baking.” 
The  former  is  placing  on  the  broiler  over  the  pan,  searing  first  one  side  and 
then  the  other  and  proceed  as  you  would  for  steak,  reducing  the  tempera- 
ture and  lowering  the  flame  to  finish,  basting  with  the  fat  and  allowing 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  to. the  pound. 

For  baking  proceed  just  the  same  except  place  in  a covered  baking  pan 
with  sufficient  hot  water  to  keep  from  burning  the  pan  and  sear  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  reduce  the  heat,  add  the  salt  to  the  pan,  dredge  the 
meat  with  a little  pepper  and  finish  as  for  roasting.  Remember  that  slow 
cooking  will  add  greatly  to  the  flavor  of  pork  but  will  destroy  entirely  th^ 
flavor  of  beef.  If  dry  and  tasteless  it  has  been  poorly  cooked. 


Recipe  3. 


POT  ROAST. 


Materials. 


Measure.  Weight. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Choose  a thick  cut  of  beef  from 
the  shoulder  and  wipe  with  a damp 
cloth.  Have  the  kettle  hot  and  put  in 
the  suet  and  rend  the  fat.  Remove  the 
scraps,  add  the  onion  sliced,  and  cook 
until  a light  brown.  Remove  these 
from  the  kettle  and  put  in  the  meat; 
sear  on  one  side,  and  then  on  the  other. 
Turn  once  more  and  put  the  onions 
on  the  meat  and  add  the  boiling  water. 
Cover  and  simmer  slowly  one  hour;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  con- 
tinue to  cook  until  done,  an  hour  and  a half  or  two  hours.  The  secret  of  a 
pot  roast  is  more  in  the  cooking  than  in  the  meat,  being  sure  not  to  let  it 
boil  at  any  time.  Have  sufficient  liquid  in  the  kettle  for  gravy  which  may  be 
thickened  with  a tablespoonful  of  flour  after  the  meat  is  removed  to  a 
platter.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  whole  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

Potatoes  may  be  cooked  with  this  and  half  a pound  of  well-washed  prunes 
may  be  added  for  flavor  and  served  with  the  roast,  or  removed  and  pickled 
to  be  used  as  a relish. 


Beef 3%  lbs. 

Suet » % lb. 

Onion  1 

Boiling  Water  1 Pint 

Salt  

Pepper  

UTENSILS: 

Kettle  Measuring  Cup 

Meat  Fork 


Recipe  4.  IRISH  STEW  WITH  DUMPLINGS. 

Put  three  ounces  of  suet  into  a kettle.  When  the  fat  is  rendered  out  of  it, 
remove  the  cracklings  and  slice  one  onion  in  the  fat  and  cook  until  a nice 
brown.  Have  two  pounds  of  lean  meat  from  the  round  cut  into  two  inch 
squares,  to  this  meat  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Rub  well  together  then 
throw  into  the  hot  fat  and  shake  over  a hot  fire  until  nicely  browned.  Add 
one  pint  of  stock  or  water;  stir  until  boiling.  Slice  one  carrot,  add  one  bay 
leaf,  1 teaspoonful  of  kitchen  bouquet,  1 teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  pepper  to 
taste.  , Cook  slowly  for  one  hour  and  a half.  Ten  minutes  before  the  meat  is 
done  add  dumplings  made  as  follows ; 


MEATS. 


^5 


Dumplings. 

1 pint  of  flour, 

1 rounding  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

% teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1 cup  of  milk. 

Sift  dry  ingredients  well  together  and  add  more  or  less  milk  so  that  batter 
will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Drop  by  teaspoonfiil  over  the  meat,  cover — and 
keep  covered — for  ten  minutes.  Serve  on  a platter  with  meat  in  the  center 
surrounded  by  the  dumplings  and  the  whole  garnished  with  parsley. 


Recipe  5. 

Materials. 

Round  Steak 

Turnip  

Carrot  

Potato 

Flour  

Silver-Skinned 

Onions  

Celery  Seed 

Chopped  Parsley  . 

Kitchen  Bouquet  . 

Salt  

Boiling  Stock  or 

Water  

Pepper  

UTENSILS: 

Casserole  Dish  Paring  Knife 

Steel  Spider  Measuring  Cup 

Tablespoon  Vegetable  Cutter 


Peel  the  onions  and  cut  the  vege- 
tables into  fancy  shapes  or  cubes.  Put 
a thick  layer  of  these  into  the  bottom 
of  the  casserole  dish.  Put  the  spider 
over  the  fire.  When  very  hot  throw 
in  the  steak,  cut  in  inch  squares,  and 
sear  over  very  quickly,  shaking  the 
flour  over  the  meat  while  searing.  Put 
the  meat  over  the  vegetables  and  the 
remaining  vegetables  and  seasoning 
over  the  top.  Pour  the  boiling  water 
or  stock  into  the  spider,  stirring  well 
from  the  bottom.  Add  kitchen  bou- 
quet and  a little  more  flour  if  desired 
to  make  a very  thin  brown  sauce — pour 
this  over  the  whole;  cover  and  bake  in 
a very  moderate  oven  one  and  one-half 
hours.  Always  serve  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  cooked. 


STEAK  AND  VEGETABLES  EN  CASSEROLE. 

Measure.  * Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

2 ibs. 


2 Tablcspoonfuls 


Vj  Pint 

Vi  Teaspoonful 
. 2 Tablespoonfuls 

. 1 Teaspoonful 

1 Teaspoonful 

1V2  Pints 


Recipe  6.  TO  BROIL  STEAKS  OR  CHOPS  WITH  GAS. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Porterhouse,  Sirloin 
or  Club  Steak  at 
least  one  and  one- 
half  inches  thick. . 

Butter 

Pepper  

Salt  

UTENSILS: 

Broiling  Pan  or  Fork 
Oven  Hot  Platter 


inches  from  the  burner,  turn  them 


DIRECTIONS. 

Light  the  oven  at  least  five  min- 
utes before  putting  in  the  steak.  See 
that  the  broiling  pan  and  rack  are  in 
order.  . Put  the  steak  on  the  broiler 
when  perfectly  hot  and  put  as  near  the 
gas  flame  as  possible  without  touch- 
ing. As  soon  as  the  steak  is  seared 
all  over  draw  out  the  pan,  take  a fork, 
stick  it  as  near  the  edge  as  possible, 
turn  and  sear  the  other  side.  Turn 
once  more,  lower  the  pan  about  six 
down  about  half,  and  broil  slowly  five 


2G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


minutes  on  each  side.  Have  the  serving  platter  thoroughly  heated  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  to  which  you  have  added  salt  and  pepper. 
Lift  the  steak  carefully  to  the  platter  and  baste  with  the  butter  and  season- 
ing. Garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon,  parsley,  tomatoes  or  watercress.  A 
steak  two  inches  thick  recjuires  twenty  minutes  for  broiling;  one  and  a half 
inches,  fifteen  minutes;  and  one  inch,  ten  minutes. 

. Club  or  Deimonico  steaks  are  nice  for  small  families. 

Mrs.  Ki;  k’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  &•  Elbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk, 


Recipe  7.  PAN  BROILED  STEAK. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  ♦ DIRECTIONS. 


Porterhouse,  Sirloin 

Place  over  the  fire  a steel  spider 
and  when  very  hot  put  in  any  of  the 
above  meats  which  have  been  prepared 
as  for  recipe  for  broiling  by  gas,  and 
turn  them  as  soon  as  seared.  Sear  and 
turn  again  and  so  continue  for  five 
minutes.  Then  lower  the  flame  under 
the  pan  and  broil  slowly  for  five  min- 
utes more.  This  is  for  steak  two  inches 
thick.  Be  very  careful  that  there  is 
no  frying.  Turn  all  meats  more  often  than  when  broiled  under  gas  or  it  will 
be  fried  rather  than  broiled.  Finish  the  same  as  the  preceding  recipe.  The 
English  Mutton  and  Boston  Chops  will  require  fifteen  minutes,  and  the  ordi- 
nary American  chop  ten  minutes.  In  pan  broiling  be  very  careful  they  do 
not  fry,  as  mutton  is  fatter  than  beef. 


or  Club  Steaks... 
English  Mutton  .... 
Boston  Chops,  Loin 
or  French  Lamb 
Chops  

UTENSILS: 
Steel  Spider  Fork 

Hot  Platter 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  bv  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  8.  LOIN  OF  VEAL. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Loin  of  Veal 

Salt  1V2  Teaspoonfuls  Use  care  in  selecting  veal  that  is 

White  Pepper  not  too  young  and  “ green.”  The  flesh 

TTmTTMQTTQ.  should  bc  firm,  rather  pink,  and  good 

sized  bones.  Wipe  the  above  loin  with 
Baking  Pan  Measuring  Cup  ^ damp  cloth  and  place  it  in  the  bak- 

Basting  Spoon  . sprinkle  with  the  pepper  and 

put  the  salt  in  one  corner  of  the  pan 

with  half  a cup  of  boiling  water. 


Place  in  a very  hot  oven  for  about  15  minutes  when  it  will  be  well  seared. 
Reduce  the  temperature  to  moderate  heat  and  bake  slowly,  basting  often. 
The  time  required  will  be  20  minutes  for  each  pound  of  veal.  Any  method 
of  cooking  requiring  long  slow  cooking,  such  as  stews,  fricassees,  casserole, 
fireless  cooking,  etc.,  is  especially  desirable  for  veal.  If  you  use  a covered 


MEATS. 


27 


baking  pan  the  basting  is  not  necessary.  The  only  object  of  the  water  is 
to  keep  the  pan  from  burning  and  smoking  until  sufficient  fat  is  obtained  for 
basting. 

Mrs,  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Elbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  4.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  9.  HAM  BAKED  IN  CIDER. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Wash  the  ham  thoroughly,  rub 
well  with  baking  soda  and  scrub  with 
the  vegetable  brush.  Rinse  in  cold 
water,  trim  neatly,  and  put  into  the 
baking  pan  skin  side  down.  Mix  in 
a cup  all  the  seasonings  and  rub  these 
well  into  the  meat  and  sprinkle  thickly 
with  the  chopped  onion.  Make  a sheet 
by  adding  slowly  one-half  cup  of  water 
to  one  cup  of  flour;  roll  out  in  a sheet 
and  cover  the  entire  flesh  of  the  ham, 
tucking  down  close  to  the  skin.  Fill  the  pan  two-thirds  full  of  hot  sweet  cider. 
Stand  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  four  hours  in  a moderate  oven,  basting  often. 
When  done  remove  paste  and  skin,  trim  the  meat  from  the  end  bone,  and 
decorate  with  a quill  of  paper.  Place  on  a hot  platter  fat  side  down,  garnish 
with  parsley  and  pickled  beets  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  This  is  very  nice  served 
with  cider  sauce.  Many  like  the  addition  of  a bottle  of  wine  or  champagne 
instead  of  cider.  Serve  with  sweet  potatoes,  tomatoes,  spinach,  cold-slaw 
and  apple  sauce.  Twenty-five  minutes  is  the  usual  time  to  allow  to  a pound. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1006,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Small  Ham 1 

Cloves % Teaspoonful 

Pepper  Teaspoonful 

Cinnamon  Vi  Teaspoonful 

Celery  Seed  % Teaspoonful 

Chopped  Onions  ...  2 Teaspoonfuls 
Sweet  Cider  V2  Gallon 

UTENSILS: 

Paring  Knife  Vegetable  Brush 

Baking  Pan  Baking  Soda 


Recipe  10.  CROWN  ROAST  OF  LAMB. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight,  DIRECTIONS. 

Double  Rack  of 

c Ji/  Select  two  racks  or  ribs  of  lamb 

White  Pepper  your  butcher  will  turn  and  fasten 

Mashed  Potatoes  ...  3 Pints  them  together,  on  each  side,  with  the 

bones  about  two  inches  long  standing 
UTENSILS:  ^ upright.  Set  this  crown  roast  into 

Baking  Pan  Measuring  Cup  baking  pan  and  sprinkle  with  the 

Casting  Spoon  Measuring  Spoon  pepper;  put  the  salt  into  the  pan  with 

half  a cup  of  boiling  water.  Cover  the 

bones  with  oiled  paper  or  pieces  of  fat 
pork  and  put  into  a very  hot  oven  for  15  minutes.  Lower  the  temperature 
so  the  roast  does  not  burn  and  bake  in  all  45  minutes,  basting  often.  Serve 
on  a platter  with  the  center  filled  with  mashed  or  riced  potatoes  and  sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  parsley  on  the  top.  Paper  frills  should  be  put  on  the 


28 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


ends  of  the  bones.  This  is  also  very  nice  stuffed  with  sausage  when  put 
into  tile  oven.  Then  the  potatoes  are  served  in  a separate  dish. 

Loin  or  ribs  of  pork  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner,  garnished  with 
fried  apples. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  it  Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  4.  Copyright,  1UU8,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  11.  CHICKEN  FRICASSEE. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Chicken  4 lbs. 

I Tablespoonfuls  a chicken  which  is  tender; 

Water  1 Pint  Singe  and  disjoint.  Put  into  a colander 

Grated  Onion 1 Tablespoonful  or  frying  basket  and  let  the  water  run 

Salt  quickly  over  it.  Wipe  each  piece  dry. 

butter  into  the  spider  and  over 

not  too  hot  a fire ; dip  the  pieces  in 

UTENSILS:  flour.  Put  into  the  spider  to  brown  on 

Steel  Spider  Stew  Pan  both  sides.  Remove  the  chicken  and 

Tablespoon  Measuring  Cup  3.dd  the  flour  , stir  well.  Add  the  water 

and  seasonings.  When  boiling  add  the 

chicken.  Cover  and  simmer  gently 

for  at  least  one  hour  or  until  tender. 
This  must  be  cooked  slowly  or  you  will  have  a tough  and  tasteless  chicken. 
When  ready  to  serve,  arrange  the  chicken  on  a platter  and  strain  the  gravj^ 
over  it.  Garnish  with  triangles  of  toasted  bread  and  parsley. 


Recipe  12.  ROAST  TURKEY  WITH  DRESSING. 


DIRECTIONS. 


. Select  a plump  turkey  having 
smooth,  dark  legs  and  the  cartilage  at 
the  end  of  the  breastbone  should  be 
rather  soft  and  pliable.  Remove  the 
hairs  by  holding  the  bird  over  an  alco- 
hol flame  or  twist  a piece  of  paper  up 
tightly  and  light  it,  holding  turkey 
over  this  and  changing  the  position  of- 
ten until  every  part  is  singed.  Cut 
off  the  head  and  with  a pointed  knife 

remove  the  pin  feathers. 

For  most  housekeepers  it  is  better  to  have  the  turkey  drawn  (that  is 
the  intestines  removed  and  tendons  pulled  out)  by  the  butcher.  Now  all 
that  remains  to  be  done  is  to  wring  a cloth  from  cold  water  and  wipe  the 
bird  both  inside  and  out,  or  by  holding  it  under  the  cold  water  faucet  and 
letting  the  cold  water  run  through  : but  do  not  let  the  fowl  soak  in  cold  water; 
Wipe  dry.  Truss  by  drawing  the  thighs  close  to  the  body  and  hold  by 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Turkey  10  lbs. 

Bacon  

Blitter 

Salt  

Pepper  

UTENSILS: 

Covered  Roasting  Long  H’died  Spoon 
P^in  Steel  Skewers 

Large  Meat  Fork  Oiled  Paper 


MEATS. 


29 


inserting  a steel  skewer  from  one  middle  joint  through  the  body  to  the  other. 
Cross  the  ends  of  the  legs  and  tie  securely  with  a string,  covering  quite  well  up 
with  several  thicknesses  of  oiled  paper.  Bend  the  wings  so  they  fit  closely  to 
the  body  and  then  fasten  both  firmly  with  another  skewer.  Draw  the  neck 
skin  well  to  the  back  and  fasten  in  like  manner.  Brush  well  with  melted 
butter  and  place  in  the  roaster,  breast  down,  laying  strips  of  bacon 
over  the  back  of  turkey  and  dust  well  with  flour.  Cover  the  pan  and  place 
in  a VERY  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Gradually  reduce  the  temperature 
until  a moderate  oven  and  then  finish  in  a slow  oven  which  will  take  about  three 
hours.  Add  salt  and  pepper  when  half  done  and  turn  on  its  back.  If  you  do 
not  use  a covered  roaster  put  in  sufficient  water  to  keep  pan  from  burning, 
then  the  turkey  must  be  basted  every  fifteen  minutes,  watching  carefully 
that  it  does  not  brown  too  fast;  if  it  does,  cover  with  several  thicknesses  of 
oiled  or  buttered  paper. 

Remove  the  string  and  skewers  before  serving.  Garnish  with  parsley 
or  celery  tips. 

The  true  flavor  of  the  turkey  is  preserved  when  it  is  not  stufifed  with 
a dressing. 

If  it  is  desired,  use  three  cups  of  grated  white  bread  crumbs,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  grated  onion,  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  one-half  of  finely 
chopped  green  pepper  (sweet),  one  cup  of  chopped  celery  and  one  pint  of 
well-washed  and  drained  oysters  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  together  in  the 
order  given.  If  desired,  a beaten  egg  or  two  may  be  added  to  this  stuffing. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  bv  Yawman  iS:  Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  13.  ROAST  DUCK  AND  GOOSE. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Singe  the  ducks  and  remove  the 
pin  feathers,  wash  and  scrub  in  hot 
water  (if  a goose  use  hot  soap  suds) 
then  draw  as  directed  in  the  preceding 
recipe  for  turk^.  Wash  in  cold  water 
by  holding  uncrer  the  faucet,  wipe  dry 
and  truss.  Place  the  ducks  in  the  bak- 
ing pan,  preferably  one  with  a rack  in 
the  bottom,  and  cover  the  breast  with 
very  thin  slices  of  bacon  or  salt  pork.  Bake  in  a very  hot  oven  fifteen  min- 
utes to  every  pound  if  wild  ducks  and  little  more  than  twice  the  time  if  do- 
mestic. Add  half  a cup  of  boiling  water  for  each  duck  and  baste  every  ten 
minutes.  Serve  onions  and  brussel  sprouts  or  browned  sweet  potatoes,  apple 
and  celery  salad  or  lettuce  and  orange  salad. 


Materials.  _ Measure.  Weight. 

Domestic  or  Wild 
Ducks  or  Goose. . 

Stuffing 

Salt  

Pepper  

UTENSILS: 

Baking  Pan  Long  Handled 

Large  Meat  Fork  Spoon 


Roast  Goose. 

Prepare  same  as  for  duck  and  rub  the  inside  with  salt  and  an  onion  cut 
in  halves.  Fill  with  prune  stuffing  and  steam  for  two  hours  and  bake  one 
hour,  basting  every  ten  minutes. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


ao 


Prune  Dressing. 

Cook  one-half  a pound  of  prunes  by  soaking  over  night  and  cooking 
slowly  in  a double  boiler.  Pare,  quarter  and  core  three  large  tart  apples 
and  add  to  the  prunes  which  have  been  stoned  and  cut  into  pieces.  Cook 
one-half  cup  of  rice  until  tender,  as  in  Recipe  1,  under  Vegetables.  Shell 
and  blanch  a dozen  chestnuts ; boil  until  tender  and  cut  in  pieces ; add  to  the 
above  mixture  with  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  paprika 
and  a good  pinch  of  cinnamon.  Mix  all  well  together  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Elbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 

and 

Substantial  Meals  Without  Meat. 


(Including  Menus  Without  Meat,  Sandwiches  and  School  Luncheons.) 

And  God  said:  “Behold,  I have  given  you  every  green  herb  bearing  seed  which  is 
upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree  yielding  seed;  to  you  it  shall  be  for  meat.” 

FOODS. 

Two  General  Classes. 

First — Nitrogenous  or  flesh  forming  foods  and  necessary  to  repair  the 
daily  waste  of  tissue. 

Second — Carbonaceous  or  heat  producing  foods  and  are  the  source  of 
our  strength  and  energy. 

Flesh-formers — Meat,  eggs,  fish,  milk,  cheese,  nuts,  peas,  oatmeal,  rye, 
wheat,  corn. 

A perfect  diet  consists  of  a correct  combination  of  common  food  ma- 
terials, blended  to  suit  the  age,  occupation,  sex,  and  climate  in  which  the 
individual  lives. 

1 SUBSTITUTES  FOR  MEAT. 

Some  vegetables  are  perfect  substitutes  for  meats. 

All  the  grains,  such  as  whole  wheat,  rice,  barley,  oats,  corn  and  nuts, 
also  cheese,  peas,  beans,  lintels,  macaroni,  raisins,  figs  and  bananas  are  meat 
substitutes. 

Other  vegetables  are  important  articles  of  diet,  but  they  should  not  be 
made  the  basis  of  your  dietary. 

“ NO  MEAT  ” MENUS. 

Breakfast — Eggs  on  toasted  white  bread,  sliced  tomatoes,  brown  bread 
and  butter,  coffee. 

Luncheon — Hot  chocolate,  bread  and  butter,  lettuce  salad. 

Dinner — Spinach  soup,  macaroni  and  cheese,  cucumber  salad,  floating 
island,  coffee. 


(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 

NO.  3.  TABLE  LAID  FOR  COFFEE  AND  DESSERT. 

This  represents  the  same  table  shown  in  No.  1 at  close  of  dinner.  The  dessert 
spoon  and  after-dinner  coffee  spoon  are  at  the  right  of  the  dessert  plate  which  is 
brought  in  with  the  finger  bowl  on  it  and  set  down  before  each  guest,  the  finger 
bowl  being  removed  to  the  back  and  left  of  the  plate.  Then  the  dessert  is  brought 
in  and  passed  or  placed  on  the  dessert  plate,  the  water  and  claret  glasses  remaining 
during  the  entire  meal.  When  dessert  is  finished  the  finger  bowl  is  replaced  on  the 
plate  ready  for  use.  The  tips  of  the  fingers  are  dipped  in  the  water  and  wiped  on 
the  napkin.  Never  put  the  napkin  in  the  finger  bowl.  If  necessar}'  to  wipe  the  lips, 
do  this  by  wetting  the  finger  tips,  touching  the  lips  and  then  wiping  with  the  napkin. 

The  coffee  percolator  is  convenient  and  sociable  and  adds  very  much  to  the  final 
entertainment  of  the  guests  and  is  coming  more  and  more  into  every-day  use. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES. 


Breakfast — Blueberries  and  cream,  steamed  eggs,  toast,  coffee. 

Luncheon — Cream  cheese  and  pimento  brown  bread  sandwiches,  graham 
crackers,  grape  juice. 

Dinner — Barley  soup,  lima  beans,  mashed  potatoes,  cabbage  salad  with 
mayonnaise,  black  coffee,  cheese  and  wafers. 

Breakfast — Breakfast  food  and  cream,  apple  sauce,  Graham  gems,  coffee. 
Luncheon — Cheese  souffle,  milk  biscuit,  berries,  tea. 

Dinner — Puree  of  peas,  croutons,  walnuts,  apple  and  celery,  salad  (French 
Dressing),  steamed  rice  pudding,  coffee,  cheese  and  wafers. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  8.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  1. 


BRESLAU  OF  MEAT. 


Materials. 

Measure. 

Chopped  Beef,  Veal 

or  Chicken 

. 1 

Pint 

Stock  

. 1 

Gill 

Butter 

. 2 

Tablespoonfuls 

Fresh  Bread  Crumbs  V2 

Cup 

Cream  or  Milk  ... 

. 1/2 

Pint 

Chopped  Parsley  .. 

. 1 

Tablespoonful 

Eggs  

. 3 

Yolks 

Worcestershire 

Sauce  

. 1 

Teaspoonful 

Salt  

. 1 

Teaspoonful 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

. 1 

Teaspoonful 

Nepaul  Pepper  .. . . 

. % 

Teaspoonful 

Kitchen  Bouquet  .. 

. V2 

Teaspoonful 

Tomato  Sauce  

UTENSILS: 

Food  Chopper 

Dripping  Pan 

Bowl 

Custard  Cups 

Measuring  Cup 

Egg  Beater 

Tablespoon 

Teaspoon 

Brush 

DIRECTIONS. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  chop  the  parsley 
fine;  then  mix  all  the  ingredients  well 
together.  Brush  custard  cups  well 
with  melted  butter  and  press  the  mix- 
ture into  them.  Partly  fill  a baking 
pan  with  boiling  water,  stand  the  cups 
in  it,  and  bake  in  a quick  oven  for 
thirty  minutes.  When  done,  turn  them 
from  the  cups  onto  a heated  dish,  pour 
around  Tomato  Sauce,  garnished  with 
triangles  or  hearts  of  toasted  bread  and 
serve  hot. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  190G,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  2. 


PICNIC  PATTIES. 


Materials. 

Pastry 

Chopped  Chicken  or 

Veal  

Butter 

Flour  

Meat  Stock 

Cream  

Chopped  Pimento  , . 

Chopped  Celery 

Salt  


Measure. 


1 Cup 

1 Tablespoonful 
1 Tablespoonful 
V2  Cup 
V2  Cup 

1 

1 Tablespoonful 


UTENSILS: 


Patty  Pans  Measuring  Cup 

Tablespoon  Sauce  Pan 


DIRECTIONS. 

Line  the  patty  pans  with  a rich 
pastry.  Make  a sauce  of  the  butter, 
flour,  stock  and  cream.  Stir  until  it 
thickens  and  add  all  the  remaining  in- 
gredients. Fill  the  patties  with  this. 
Cover  with  a top  crust.  Bake  in  a hot 
oven.  These  are  suitable  for  home 
luncheons  or  picnics. 


32 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  3. 


HAM  SOUFFLE. 


Materials. 

Fine  Chopped  Ham.  1 
Milk 1 


Measure. 

Pint 

Pint 


Fine  yv  riite  B-ead 

Crumbs 

Butter  

Flour  

Eggs  

Slice  of  Onion  

Paprika  


44  Pint 

2 Tablespoonfuls 

2 Tablespoonfuls 

3 
1 


UTENSILS: 


Tablespoon 
Baking  Dish 
Sieve 


Measuring  Cup 
Food  Chopper 
Sauce  Pan 


DIRECTIONS. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  sauce  pan 
and  cook  the  onion  in  this  without 
browning;  add  the  flour,  paprika  and 
milk  ; let  boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
then  strain  over  the  bread  crumbs  and 
ham.  Mix  thoroughly,  at  the  same 
time  stirring  in  the  yolks  of  eggs  and 
fold  in  the  whites  beaten  dry.  Turn 
into  the  buttered  baking  dish,  set  into 
a pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a mod- 
erate oven  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 
Strained  tomatoes  may  take  the  place 
of  the  milk. 


Recipe  4.  THE  REAL  SPAGHETTI  A LA  ITALIANNE. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  the  salt  pork  or  bacon  into 
the  spider,  and  after  the  grease  is  thor- 
oughly cooked  out,  discard  the  pieces 
of  fat.  Add  the  tomato  paste  to  the 
grease  and  when  softened,  add  the 
onions  and  peppers  well  chopped. 
Then  to  this  add  slices  of  beef  or  veal 
(or  as  many  pieces  as  you  have  persons 
to  serve).  Let  this  simmer  ten  min- 
ui;es,  putting  in  the  tomatoes  and  salt. 
Moisten  the  flour  with  a little  water, 
use  to  thicken  and  let  cook  slowly  on 
the  back  part  of  the  stove,  while  pre- 
paring the  spaghetti  whi^h  should  be  put  into  a kettle  half  full  of  boiling 
water,  and  boil  rapidly  from  15  to  25  minutes.  Blanch  in  cold  water.  Have 
the  hot  dish  in  which  you  wish  to  serve  in  readiness,  cover  the  bottom  with 
the  sauce,  then  some  of  the  cheese  and  a generous  helping  of  spaghetti  re- 
heated by  setting  the  dish  in  boiling  water;  another  layer  of  sauce  and  a 
fine  sprinkling  of  cheese  capped  by  a piece  of  the  beef  or  veal,  and  you  have 
a genuine  dish  of  the  “ real  thing.” 


Materials.  Measure. 

Salt  Pork  or  Bacon  4 or  5 Slices 

Tomato  Paste  1 Tablespoonful 

Onion  1 

Sweet  Peppers  3 

Beef  or  Veal  6 Slices 

Tomatoes  1 Can 

Salt  2 Teaspoonfuls 

Flour 1 Tablespoonful 

Grated  Cheese  1 Cup 

Spaghetti  

UTENSILS:  ' 

Steel  Spider  Tablespoon 

Grater  Hot  Serving  Dish 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Kecipes. 
Published  bv  Yawrnnn  Elbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1006,  by  Mrs,  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES. 


33 


Recipe  5.  LENTEN  EGGS  ON  CODFISH  CAKES. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Chopped  Salt  Cod- 
fish   1 Cup  Cut  or  pick  the  codfish  in  small 

Bimer  TablespoonM  and  dice  the  potatoes,  al- 

Peppej.  lowing  full  measurement  and  put  both 

Eggs  6 into  the  stew  pan  in  boiling  water  to 

Bacon  2 S^lices  boil.  When  the  potatoes  are  tender, 

OniX  cVated ! ! ! '.  "l  TeaspoCful"  ' ' *ain  and  mash  all  well  together,  add 

the  well-beaten  egg,  a dash  of  pepper 

UTENSILS*  butter,  beat  up  very  nice  and 

Stew  Pan  Vegetable  Knife  light  Take  up  by  tablespoonfuls,  mold 

Measuring  Cup  Tablespoon  into  flat  cakes,  dip  in  fine  bread  crumbs, 

Teaspoon  Frying  Basket  place  a few  at  a time  in  your  frying 

Kettle  Egg  Poacher  Fry-pan  basket  and  dip  in  hot  fat  until  a rich 

brown,  drain  on  blotting  or  brown 

paper  and  arrange  on  a hot  platter. 
Poach  six  eggs  in  your  egg  poacher  and  lift  carefully  to  the  top  of  the  cod- 
fish cakes.  In  the  meantime  have  the  bacon  cut  up  very  fine,  throw  into  a 
fry-pan  until  the  fat  is  out,  add  the  onion,  stir  well,  remove  from  the  fire  and 
quickly  put  in  the  vinegar  and  dip  this  over  the  eggs.  Send  at  once  to  the 
table.  This  is  a very  nice  breakfast  or  luncheon  dish.  This  will  make  six 
or  eight  cakes. 

All  measurements  level  unless  otherwise  stated. 


Recipe  6. 


BAKED  BEANS. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  and  soak  the  beans  over 
night  in  plenty  of  cold  water.  In  the 
morning  wash  and  put  them  into  the 
kettle;  cover  with  cold  water  and  bring 
slowly  to'  the  boiling  point.  Add  the 
soda  when  nearly  boiling.  Boil  just  a 
moment  and  turn  into  a colander  and 
drain  well.  Return  to  the  kettle  and 
cover  with  freshly  boiled  water  and 
simmer  until  upon  lifting  some  of  the 
beans  on  a spoon  and  blowing  on  them 
the  skins  crack.  Now  pour  into  the 
bean  pot  and  bury  the  pork,  which  has  been  scored  or  the  skin  cut  through 
in  squares,  in  the  beans.  Mix  the  molasses  and  a quart  of  water  from  the 
beans  together,  pour  this  over,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  add  a cup  of  tomato 
sauce  if  you  like  the  flavor  and  cover  with  the  rest  of  the  water,  reserving 
the  remainder  to  use  later  over  the  beans  if  they  bake  dry.  Bake  in  a mod- 
erate oven  covered  for  six  or  eight  hours.  These  should  be  perfect  in  shape 
and  just  moist.  These  may  be  done  in  the  Fireless  Cooker  and  browned  in 
the  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cookinj'  Recipes, 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  4.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

White  Navy  Beans..  1 Quart 

Salt  Pork Vs  lb. 

Molasses  Cup 

Tomato  Sauce  1 Cup 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

Soda  14  Tea^poonful 

Pepper  % Teaspoonful 


Bean  Pot 
Stew  Pan 
Colander 


UTENSILS: 

Measuring  Cup 
Sharp  Knife 


2-8 


.34 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  7.  CHILDREN’S  SCHOOL  SANDWICHES  AND  LUNCHEONS. 

“ Over  the  hills  and  through  the  valleys 
List  to  nature’s  wooing  call, 

Seek  the  field,  the  shore,  the  wildwood. 

Summer  comes  with  joys  for  all.” 

Of  all  the  work  a mother  has  to  do  for  her  children,  none  is  more  trouble- 
some than  putting  up  luncheons  day  after  day  with  a due  regard  for  variety 
and  wholesomeness,  and  for  the  fickle  and  often  unreasonable  taste  of  the 
child.  If  one  could  only  give  chocolate  layer  cake  or  large  cucumber  pickles 
every  day  and  nothing  else,  then,  indeed,  one  might  be  sure  the  luncheon 
would  be  eaten  and  approved  by  the  small  gourmand ; but  when  one  has  a 
maternal  conscience  such  things  must  be  dealt  out  infrequently,  and  bread 
and  butter  offered  day  by  day — a diet  to  which  most  children  are  indifferent 
if  not  actively  hostile. 

How  to  “ do  up  ” a luncheon  which  shall  be  appetizing,  wholesome,  and 
varied  day  after  day,  when  often  the  larder  is  bare  of  dainties,  is  indeed  a 
subject  for  study.  It  may  be  done  occasionally  with  comparative  ease,  since 
woman’s  wit  is  equal  to  severe  strain,  but  for  ten  months  a year  and  twenty 
days  a month — that  gives  the  most  ingenious  pause. 

Sandwiches  are  to  be  considered  first,  because  one  begins  with  them 
every  morning.  A good  plan  is  to  have  them  of  different  kinds  of  bread, 
either  of  white  and  whole  wheat  each  day,  or  perhaps  better,  of  white  one  day, 
whole  wheat  the  next,  Boston  brown  bread  the  third,  white  again  the  fourth, 
and  little  baking-powder  biscuit  the  fifth.  Of  course  fresh  baked  bread  will 
not  do ; it  must  be  at  least  a day  old,  and  should  be  very  thin,  with  most  of 
the  crust  cut  off ; not  all  by  any  means,  but  only  the  heavy  edge. 

Sandwich  fillings  are  legion,  many  of  them  nourishing  and  good,  and  a 
little  handbook  of  suggestions  is  a boon  to  mothers,  because  invention  fails 
so  often.  These  combinations  will  be  found  easily  prepared  and  appetizing. 

Meat  Sandwiches. — Cold  roast  beef  chopped  and  slightly  salted,  between 
slices  of  white  bread.  Chicken,  cut  very  thin  and  salted ; white  bread.  Boiled 
ham,  chopped  very  fine,  mixed  with  a very  little  dry  mustard ; brown  bread. 
Roast  veal,  finely  chopped,  with  a few  olives  mixed  in;  brown  bread.  One 
very  thin  layer  of  chopped  ham  and  a slice  of  chicken;  white  bread.  Corned 
beef  shaved  very  thin ; white  bread. 

Salad  Sandwiches. — Lettuce  leaves  on  white  buttered  bread,  with  a very 
little  French  dressing  made  by  mixing  a teaspoonful  of  oil  with  a few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  and  a little  salt.  Chopped  watercress  on  buttered  bread,  white 
or  brown,  with  salt.  Very  thin  slices  of  cucumber,  with  salt;  white  bread. 
Thin  slices  of  tomato,  drained  of  all  pulp  and  seeds  and  wiped  dry;  salt. 
Nasturtium  leaves,  with  French  dressing  or  salt.  Lettuce  with  a little  cream 
cheese  spread  on  it,  and  salt  or  lemon  juice.  Watercress  and  cream  cheese. 
Celery,  chopped  very  fine  and  mixed  with  either  French  dressing  or  a little 
mayonnaise,  or  merely  with  salt  and  lemon  juice ; whole-wheat  bread.  Chopped 
green  peppers  mixed  with  cream  cheese. 

Sweet  Sandwiches. — Chopped  dates,  wet  with  a little  cream;  white  bread. 
Orange  marmalade ; whole-wheat  or  white  bread.  Figs,  chopped  fine  and  wet 
with  cream;  whole-wheat  bread.  Figs  and  nuts,  chopped  together;  white 
bread.  Nuts  and  raisins,  chopped  together;  whole-wheat  bread.  Candied 
ginger,  chopped;  white  bread.  Prunes,  chopped  with  peanuts;  white  bread. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES. 


35 


Other  mixtures  are  these: 

Hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  and  mixed  with  French  dressing.  Cream 
cheese,  alone  or  mixed  with  chopped  nuts ; Boston  brown  bread.  Baked  beans 
seasoned  with  lemon  juice,  mashed  to  a paste ; very  thin  white  bread.  Stewed 
oysters,  chopped.  Olives,  chopped ; white  bread. 

It  is  always  best,  if  possible,  to  have  two  kinds  of  sandwiches,  one  of 
meat,  eggs,  or  cream  cheese,  and  the  other  of  some  sweet  mixture,  perhaps 
two  of  each.  On  the  day  the  tiny  biscuit  are  used  there  may  be  some  thin 
slices  of  cold  meat,  with  a couple  of  olives,  for  a change. 

Never  warm  or  melt  the  butter,  but  beat  until  soft  and  creamy.  The  fill- 
ings may  be  made  from  all  meats,  most  vegetables,  eggs,  cheese  and  the  use 
of  m.ayonnaise.  Sandwiches  depend  upon  the  seasonings  and  it  is  very  essen- 
tial to  have  these  on  hand  so  as  to  lend  variety  to  the  luncheons  and  outings. 
Season  corned  beef  or  chopped  ham  with  mustard.  Roast  beef  or  boiled 
tongue  with  Harvey,  Worcestershire  sauce  or  horseradish.  Lamb,  with  capers, 
tomato  sauce,  catsup  or  chopped  mint.  Chicken  or  veal  with  chopped  celer}^ 
or  celery  salt  or  chopped  pimentos.  (The  latter  are  a sweet  Spanish  pepper 
put  up  in  little  cans  for  12  or  15  cents  and  a great  addition  in  most  all  cookery, 
particularly  salads  and  sandwiches.)  Fish  with  onion  juice,  parsley  and 
chives. 

Nuts,  cheese,  eggs,  mayonnaise,  celery,  cress,  cucumbers,  tomatoes  and 
olives  combined  with  meat  and  any  of  these  vegetables  make  delicious  sand- 
wiches. 

When  they  have  to  stand  any  length  of  time  after  making  before  they  are 
to  be  used,  pack  in  a stone  jar  and  cover  with  a cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water, 
and  when  ready  to  be  packed  for  the  lunch  wrap  in  oiled  paper,  keeping  differ- 
ent foods  separated  by  pieces  of  cardboard,  and  salads  packed  in  tightly  fitting 
jars. 


Recipe  8.  SALAD  SANDWICHES. 

Materials.  DIRECTIONS. 

Tomatoes 

“ Cream  the  butter  in  the  bowl. 

Chiver  cut  the  bread  in  round,  thin  slices. 

Salt  and  Paprika  ...  Butter.  Have  the  tomatoes  peeled  and 

Choi^ped  Peanuts  ..  very  cold;  slice  thin  and  lift  up  with 

the  broad  spatula  on  the  bread  ; sprinkle 

with  salt  and  paprika.  Cut  the  cheese 
UTENSILS*  ^ wafer  and  have  it  round 

* also.  Lift  this  to  the  tomato,  spread 

Sharp  Bread  Knife  Shears  • i j i • j 

Spatila  Chopping  Bowl  mayonnaise,  chopped  chives  and 

Vegetable  Knife  Round  Cutter  peanuts.  Cover  with  another  round  of 

buttered  bread.  Press  well  together. 

These  may  be  changed  to  a most 
delicious  salad  by  cutting  the  slices  of  tomatoes  quite  thick  and  seasoning 
with  salt  and  paprika.  Then  cheese  and  mayonnaise,  another  slice  of  tomato 
with  seasoning;  cheese,  mayonnaise,  chives  and  chopped  peanuts  on  top. 
Serve  on  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  3.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HO.ME  RECIPE  BOOK. 

HAM  SANDWICHES. 


Recipe  9. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Chop  ^ the  meat  fin^,  pound  and 
mix  well  in  a mortar.  If  you  do  not 
have  a mortar  and  pestle,  put  the  meat 
through  the  chopper  two  or  three  times 
and  work  well  with  the  back  of  a spoon. 
Season  with  mustard,  salt,  paprika  and 
capers;  moisten  well  with  mayonnaise; 
chop  whites  of  eggs  fine,  add  to  this 
and  mix  all  well  together.  Put  the 
yolks  of  the  hard  boiled  eggs  through 
the  vegetable  press  or  sieve,  season 
with  salt  and  paprika  and  mix  with 
sufficient  mayonnaise  to  spread.  Cream 
the  butter  as  usual,  cut  thin  slices  of 
bread,  spread  with  the  creamed  butter. 
On  one  slice  spread  the  meat  mixture, 
on  the  other  the  egg  mixture  Press  well  together,  wrap  in  oiled  paper  and 
pack.  Be  sure  these  (and  in  fact  all  sandwiches)  are  moist.  Anything  but 
a dry  sandwich. 

If  preferred,  ham  alone  may  be  used  with  perfect  results,  either  sliced 
or  chopped  and  well  seasoned.  If  lettuce  is  used  with  them  shred  it  fine. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  3.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials, 

Measure.  Weight. 

Cold  Boiled  or 

Baked  Ham 

l2  lb. 

Cold  Boiled  Tongue 

V4  lb. 

Cold  Chicken  

lb. 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs..  4 

Soft  Mustard  1 Teaspoonful 

Chopped  Capers  ...  1 Teaspoonful 
Salt  and  Paprika  . . . 

Mayonnaise 

Bread 

Butter  

UTENSILS: 

Food  Chopper  Mortar  and  Pestle 

Sharp  Knife  Scales 

Stew  Pan  Measuring  Spoon 

Spatula  Vegetable  Press 

Spoon 


Recipe  10.  CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Cold  Chicken 

Celery  

Shredded  Lettuce  . . 

Nuts  

Mayonnaise • 

Salt  and  Paprika  . . . 

Bread  

Butter 

UTENSILS: 

Food  Chopper  Sharp  Knife 

Spatula  Bowl 

Spoon  Whip  Churn 


Press  well  together;  pack  in  a jar  covered  well  with  a towel  wrung  out 
of  cold  water.  Or,  if  preparing  them  for  a picnic  wrap  them  in  oiled  paper. 
If  a sliced  chicken  sandwich  is  desired  cut  the  chicken  as  thin  as  pos- 


Put  any  bits  of  cold  chicken  also 
the  celery  through  the  food  chopper, 
using  the  fine  cutter.  Season  well  with 
salt  and  paprika  and  a dash  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Now  mix  well  with  the  may- 
onnaise, half  of  which  is  whipped 
cream.  .Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with 
crusts  removed  with  plenty  of  creamed 
butter.  Spread  the  lower  slice  with 
the  chicken,  mayonnaise  and  shredded 
lettuce,  and  the  upper  slice  with  the 
nuts. 


EGGS. 


37 


sible,  spread  with  the  mayonnaise — a little  shredded  lettuce  on  top  of  that 
and  put  between  buttered  slices  of  bread,  trimming  the  edges  neatly. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  3.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


EGGS. 


(Steamed,  Deviled,  Stuffed,  Scrambled,  Curried  and  Omelets.) 


"We  learn  from  mistakes,  from  experiences,  even  more  than  from  success.” 

" The  discovery  of  a new  dish  does  more  for  the  happiness  of  man  than  the  dis- 
covery of  a star.” 

(All  measurements  are  level  unless  otherwise  stated.  Flour  is  sifted  before 

measuring.) 

The  housekeeper  who  has  given  little  or  no  thought  to  the  composition 
of  eggs  has  much  to  learn  of  this  very  nutritive  food.  While  this  food,  the 
egg,  is  in  common  use  and  probably  always  will  be,  a little  more  thought 
should  be  given  to  the  best  ways  of  cooking  it. 

One  of  the  simple  things  to  remember  in  cooking  is  that  the  albumen 
in  the  egg  coagulates  at  a high  temperature ; hence  to  have  that  soft  creamy 
consistency,  be  careful  of  extremes  in  heat  and  too  long  a time  over  the  fire. 

Eggs  for  cakes  and  souffles  should  be  separated  and  the  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately.  The  main  thing  in  the  white  is  the  amount  of  air  that  is 
beaten  into  it.  The  white  of  the  egg  never  acts  chemically  upon  any  of  the 
ingredients  with  which  it  is  mixed,  but  the  membrane  being  tough  it  has  the 
pow’er  of  sustaining  the  air  beaten  into  it ; when  carefully  folded  into  the  batter 
it  sustains  that  lightness  to  the  end,  if  carefully  baked. 

Hot  or  warm  water  makes  a much  more  tender  omelet  than  milk,  and 
there  is  no  reason  for  failure  of  these  most  toothsome  articles  if  one  is  reason- 
ably careful. 

A good  omelet  pan  is  as  necessary  to  success  as  good  eggs.  A good 
steel  spider,  smooth,  and  the  right  temperature  will  go  a long  way  toward 
producing  good  results. 

It  is  the  practice  which  makes  perfect,  and  if  you  fail,  try  again  for,  The 
man,  or  woman,  who  never  makes  any  mistakes  in  life  never  makes  anything 
else.’’ 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  1. 

Materials.  Measure. 

Eggs  4 

Boiling  Water  2 Quarts 

UTENSILS: 

Large  Stew  Pan  Egg  Cups 


EGGS  STEAMED. 

Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Put  the  eggs  into  the  stew  pan 
containing  the  boiling  water  and  cover. 
If  you  use  natural  gas  the  entire  plate 
becomes  hot,  so  you  had  better  set  the 
pan  entirely  off  the  stove.  Let  stand 
ten  minutes.  The  white  will  be  of  a 


;38 


THE  PEOPLIl’S  home  RECIPE  HOOK. 


creamy  consistency,  the  yolk  perfectly  cooked,  and  altogether  much  more 
wholesome  than  the  leathery  white  which  is  the  result  of  rapid  boiling.  If 
you  should  add  six  eggs  let  stand  fifteen  minutes.  One  egg,  one  quart  of 
boiling  water,  cover  and  let  stand  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  2.  POACHED  EGGS. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Strictly  Fresh  Eggs 

poacher  or  spider  with 

Boiling  Water  boiling  water.  Draw  the  poacher  to 

Butter one  side  of  the  stove  where  the  water 

cannot  possibly  boil.  Carefully  break 

UTENSILS*  sections,  cover  and 

let  stand  three  minutes  or  until  the 
Egg  Poacher  Spatula  white  is  set.’'  Instead  of  covering 

you  can  dip  the  hot  water  over  the 

eggs  until  they  look  pink.  With  your 
spatula  carefully  loosen  the  egg  and  remove  to  a nicely  browned  and  buttered 
piece  of  toast,  cut  round.  Season  with  salt  and  a dash  of  paprika,  garnish 
with  a bit  of  parsley  and  you  not  only  have  an  attractive  dish  but  if  care- 
fully done  a wholesome  one  as  well. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  3.  HAM  AND  EGGS. 

DIRECTIONS. 


Have  the  spider  very  hot.  Put  in 
the  ham,  sear  and  turn ; sear  and  turn 
again.  So  continue  until  the  fat  on 
the  ham  is  a golden  brown.  Draw 
the  ham  from  the  fire,  cut  the  ham  in 
six  small  pieces,  and  arrange  on  the 
platter.  Break  the  eggs  in  the  fat.  Be 
sure  it  is  not  so  hot  as  to  bubble  and 
splutter.  With  a spoon  dip  the  fat  over  the  egg  until  a white  film  forms  on 
the  yolk ; remove  to  the  slices  of  ham.  Serve  at  once,  garnished  with  cress 
and  slices  of  lemon. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Fresh  Eggs 6 

Large  Slices  of  Ham 

UTENSILS: 

Steel  Spider  Fork 

Hot  Platter  Spoon 

Broad  Pancake  Turner  or  Spatula 


EGGS. 


39 


Recipe  4.  LUNCHEON  EGGS. 

Materials,  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Tomato  Sauce  Vj  Pint 

Eggs  ..  3 Make  a tomato  sauce  according  to 

Paisley*!*...]!!!!!!!  Recipe  1 in  sauces.  Chop  the  whites 

Cream i/4  Cup  of  the  eggs  very  fine  and  add  to  this 

Salt  and  Pepper  — sauce  with  the  cream,  salt  and  pepper. 

Arrange  four  dainty  slices  of  toast  on 
UTENSILS:  a platter  and  pour  over  this  sauce, 

Double  Boiler  Tablespoon  forcing  the  yolks  through  the  ricer 

Enife  Potato  Ricer  qj-  chopped  very  fine.  Sprinkle  this 

over  the  top.  A little  grated  cheese 

may  be  added  to  the  tomato  sauce  when 
you  have  it.  If  there  is  too  much  acidity  in  the  tomatoes  which  might  make 
the  sauce  curdle,  add  just  a pinch  of  soda. 


Recipe  5.  DEVILED  EGGS. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Eggs  6 

Tablespoonful  warm  water  and 

Melted  Butter' 1 Tablespoonful  bring  to  the  boiling  point  which  is  213 
Salt  and  Paprika  to  degrees.  Lower  to  about  200  degrees 

taste and  keep  them  there  for  thirty  minutes. 

Put  into  cold  water.  Shell,  cut  into 
UTENSILS:  halves  lengthwise  and  remove  yolks; 

Tablesp^n  Stew  Pan  put  them  into  the  bowl,  add  melted 

Mixing  Bowl  Wooden^Bowl  and  chopped: 

add  the  other  ingredients,  re-fill  the 

whites  and  fasten  the  corresponding 

halves  together  with  toothpicks.  Dip 
first  in  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  repeat  once  more  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 
Serve  wrapped  in  tissue  paper,  the  ends  fringed  and  tied  for  picnics,  or, 
put  on  hot  platter  and  pour  white  sauce  or  Mexican  sauce  around  when  served 
at  home. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  6.  FRIED  STUFFED  EGGS. 

Eggs“l’; 6 DIRECTIONS. 

Melted  Butter 3 Tablespoonfuls 

Anchovies  or  Sar-  Hard  boil  the  eggs  as  for  Recipe 

dines  2 or  3 lengthwise  and  remove  the  yolks 

Fi^enfh  Vus'tard* ! ! ! ! 2 TeaspConfuls  "^^sh,  season  with  all  the  ingred- 

Salt  ients  given,  mixing  well.  Re-fill  the 

Paprika  V2  Teaspoonful  whites,  put  two  halves  together,  fas- 

Sauce  Pan  "'^^^llblfspoon  Gening  with  a toothpick.  Roll  in  egg 

Knife  Teaspoon  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  a hot 

Kettle  Frying  Basket  fat. 


40 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  7. 


PLAIN  OMELET. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Use  a steel  spider  always  for  an 
omelet.  Fry  or  frying  pans  are  both 
too  thin  and  the  omelet  would  heat  too 
quickly  in  the  center.  Put  the  butter 
into  the  spider  and  heat  slowly.  Break 
the  eggs  into  the  bowl  and  only  beat 
sufficient  to  thoroughly  mix  the  whites 
and  yolks ; add  the  water  and  season- 
ings except  parsley.  Draw  the  pan  to 
the  hottest  part  of  the  stove  and  when 
very  hot,  but  the  butter  not  browning, 
add  the  eggs  all  at  once.  Let  set  a 
moment  and  then  with  your  spatula 
loosen  the  omelet  at  the  edge,  allowing  the  thin  portion  or  uncooked  part  to 
run  under  and  so  continue  until  the  omelet  is  “ set.”  Now  sprinkle  over  the 
parsley  finely  chopped  and  with  your  spatula  turn  over  one-third  of  the 
omelet,  then  fold  once  more  as  you  turn  it  out.  Serve  at  once.  More  failures 
are  reported  to  me  in  omelets  than  in  almost  any  other  branch  of  cooking. 
Each  and  every  detail  must  be  carefully  followed  to  insure  success.  The  steel 
spider,  perfectly  smooth,  is  the  first  requisite,  then  do  not  beat  the  eggs  too 
much,  twelve  or  fifteen  minute  beats  will  usually  do  the  work,  and  the  butter, 
while  hot,  must  not  be  brown  and  smoking.  These  directions  carefully  fol- 
lowed— not  once  but  always — you  cannot  fail.  * 

This  omelet  may  be  varied  by  chopping  ham  very  fine — two  tablespoon- 
fuls when  chopped — and  adding  just  before  folding.  Then  you  have  a ham 
omelet.  Peas,  tomatoes,  oysters,  bacon,  red  and  green  peppers,  sweetbreads 
and  grated  cheese  all  lend  variety  to  a plain  omelet. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Eggs  4 

Warm  Water 4 Tablespoonfuls 

Lemon  Juice 1 Teaspoonful 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful 

A little  grating  of 
Nutmeg  

Chopped  Parsley  ...  1 Tablespoonful 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 


UTENSILS: 

Flat  Egg  Beater  Steel  Spider 

Bowl  Spatula 

Tablespoon  Hot  Platter 

Teaspoon 


Recipe  8.  EGGS  SCRAMBLED  WITH  PIMENTOS. 


' Materials.  Measure. 

Pimentos  1 

Onion  Juice 1 Teaspoonful 

Chopped  Parsley  ...  1 Teaspoonful 

Eggs  4 

UTENSILS: 

Sauce  Pan  Wooden  Spoon 

Double  Boiler  Tablespoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Drain  and  chop  the  pimento  fine. 
Add  the  onion  juice,  salt  and  parsley 
and  simmer  for  two  minutes.  Scramble 
the  eggs  in  the  double  boiler  and  when 
nearly  finished  add  the  pimentos  and 
finish  together. 


EGGS. 


41 


Recipe  9.  BREAD  OMELET 

Materials.  Measure. 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful 

Bread,  grated V2  Cup 

Eggs  4 

Salt  V2  Teaspoonful 

Paprika  

Sweet  Green  Pepper 
(small)  1 


UTENSILS: 

Steel  Spider  Two  Bowls 

Egg  Beater  Measuring  Cup 

Chopping  Bowl  and  Knife 


DIRECTIONS. 


to  a hot  platter,  and  serve  at  once. 


Prepare  the  pan  the  same  as  for 
Plain  Omelet.  Soak  the  bread  crumbs 
in  just  enough  milk  to  soften.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  separately.  Add  to 
the  yolks  the  seasonings  and  bread 
crumbs.  Mix  well,  very  gently  fold  in 
the  well  beaten  whites  and  the  pepper 
finely  chopped.  Pour  into  the  spider, 
leave  for  a moment  over  the  fire.  Then 
cover  and  set  over  a very  moderate 
heat  for  ten  minutes.  Cut  nearly 
through  the  center,  fold  and  turn  on 
This  omelet  is  very  nice  without  the 


pepper  although  the  tone  of  the  pepper  to  those  who  like  it  is  a great 
addition. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  10. 

Materials. 


CURRIED  EGGS. 

Measure. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Eggs  

Onions  

Butter 

Bacon  Fat 

Curry  Powder  

Flour  

Stock  or  Water  . . . . 
Rice  


6 

3 

1 Tablespoonful 
1 Tablespoonful 
1 Teaspoonful 
1 Teaspoonful 
1 Cup 


UTENSILS: 

Vegetable  Knife  Tablespoon 

Sauce  Pan  Double  Boiler 


Put  the  eggs  into  boiling  water 
and  let  cook  just  below  the  boiling 
point  for  thirty  minutes.  Put  at  once 
into  cold  water  and  when  cool  slice 
thin  around  a mound  of  rice  on  a hot 
chop  plate.  Have  the  onions  peeled 
and  sliced  very  thin  and  put  with  the 
fat  into  the  double  boiler.  Cook  until 
the  onions  are  soft  and  vellow ; now 
add  all  the  remaining  ingredients,  stir 
until  boiling  and  the  desired  thickness. 
Strain  this  curry  sauce  and  serve  at 
once.  Garnish  with  sweet  red  peppers, 
cut  in  fancy  shapes. 


LA  SUISSE. 

DIRECTIONS. 


Recipe  11.  EGGS  A 

Materials.  Measure. 

Eggs  4 

Parmesian  Cheese  .. 

Butter 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Cream 

Chopped  Parsley  ... 

Salt  and  Pepper 

Toast 

UTENSILS: 

Baking  Dish  Chopping  Bowl  and 

Tablespoon  Knife 

Toaster 


Spread  the  butter  in  bits  over  the 
bottom  of  the  baking  dish,  then  a layer 
of  cheese,  then  break  the  eggs.  Salt 
and  pepper,  a little  cream,  then  add  an- 
other layer  of  cheese.  Put  into  a mod- 
erate oven  10  minutes,  or  until  the  eggs 
are  set.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
hot. 


42  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 

Recipe  12.  EGGS  AU  GRATIN. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Eggs  4 

Grated  Cheese Have  some  boiling  water  in  the 

spider  with  the  vinegar  and  a little 

vlnZr  E 1 Xablespoo„tul  Use  an  egg  poacher  if  you  have 

Toast it ; if  not,  break  the  eggs  into  the  water ; 

cook  slowly  until  the  eggs  are  set;  lift 
UTENSILS:  out  carefully  and  set  on  rounds  of  but- 

Egg  Poacher  Broad  Spatula  tered  toast.  Sprinkle  each  egg  with  d 

Steel  Spider  little  grated  cheese,  brown  quickly  in  <i 

hot  oven  and  serve. 


SAUCES. 

(For  Meats,  Fish,  Vegetables,  Puddings  and  Frozen  Desserts.) 


“ Sauces  and  soups  are  the  fine  art  of  cookery  and  the  person  who  understands  them 
must  understand  tastes  and  flavors  and  possess  a trained  palate.” 

(All  measurements  level.  Flour  sifted  before  measuring.) 

It  is  considered  a great  art  by  a few  cooks  and  housekeepers  to  make  good 
sauces.  Unfortunately,  it  is  the  few  rather  than  the  many  who  recognize 
this  or  really  take  the  trouble  to  make  sauces  properly.  They  hurry  over  them 
and  subject  them  to  too  much  heat  and  consequently  send  to  the  table  a 
thick,  disagreeable  paste,  lumpy  or  thin  and  watery. 

To  make  good  sauces  takes  a little  time,  but  it  is  quite  worth  while  as 
gravies  and  sauces  constitute  the  perfection  of  entrees ; even  for  a simple  hash 
it  is  very  necessary  to  make  them  with  care.  When  one  becomes  familiar 
with  a basis  for  all  sauces  others  are  quickly  and  easily  made. 

Sauces  are  intended  as  an  accompaniment  to  the  meat,  fish,  vegetable  or 
pudding  with  which  they  are  served  and  should  be  in  perfect  harmony  with  it. 
They  should  never  be  so  prominent  in  flavoring  or  served  in  such  quantity  as 
to  lose  sight  of  the  main  dish.  Pale  sauces  and  gravies  are  not  desirable,  and 
this  can  easily  be  remedied  by  always  having  a bottle  of  Kitchen  Bouquet  in 
the  kitchen,  and  using  it  sparingly  as  so  little  is  required  to  produce  the  re' 
quired  color  and  flavor.  If  you  wish  a white  sauce,  have  it  white ; if  a yellow 
one,  yellow;  and  a brown  sauce  should  be  brown.  Browned  flour  is  also  e?r 


SAUCES. 


43 


cellent  for  thickening  and  coloring  and  gives  a fine  flavor  but  double  the 
given  amount  of  flour  when  desired  browned. 

Serve  a sauce  as  soon  as  possible  after  making  as  there  is  danger  of 
separating. 

If  necessary  to  keep  hot,  set  in  a pan  of  hot  water. 

All  sauces  are  made  or  derived  from  brown  or  white  sauce  and  the 
flavoring  makes  the  numerous  changes.  The  basis  for  this  is  one  rounding 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  same  of  flour  and  one-half  pint  of  any  desired 
liquid,  such  as  stock,  strained  tomatoes,  milk,  cream,  water,  etc. 

Certain  sauces  belong  to  some  particular  vegetable,  meat,  fish  or  dessert, 
such  as  brandy  sauce  with  plum  pudding,  cranberry  sauce  with  turkey,  apple 
sauce  with  pork,  mint  sauce  with  lamb,  and  caper  sauce  with  mutton. 

A general  principle  in  uniting  material  for  sauces  is,  rub  butter  or  fat 
and  flour  together,  and  soften  with  a little  of  the  hot  liquid  which  is  heating 
in  the  double  boiler;  stir  all  together  until  it  is  the  desired  thickness.  In 
this  way  the  flour  is  most  thoroughly  cooked,  besides  more  digestible  than 
when  cooked  in  the  fat. 

The  main  or  standard  seasonings  are  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  onion,  bay  leaf, 
Worcestershire  sauce,  Tobasco  sauce,  mint,  capers,  and  flavorings  from  meats, 
fish,  stock  or  vegetables.  The  thickening  may  be  flour,  bread  crumbs,  yolks 
of  eggs,  arrowroot,  cornstarch  or  vegetable  puree. 

There  are  many  fruit  sauces  very  nice  for  puddings  and  ice  creams  made 
from  crushed  fresh  fruits  and  the  juice  and  sugar  cooked  to  any  desired 
thickness. 


Recipe  1, 


WHITE  SAUCE. 


Materials. 

Butter 1 

Flour 1 


Measure. 

Rounding  Table- 
spoonful 

Rounding  Table- 
spoonful 
Cup 


DIRECTIONS. 


Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together 
in  the  double  boiler.  When  smooth 
add  the  milk.  Stir  over  the  fire  steadily 
until  it  thickens.  Add  the  seasoning 
and  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is  the 
basis  of  all  sauces.  One  cup  of  strained 
tomatoes  in  place  of  milk  or  cream 
will  make  tomato  sauce,  adding  a sea- 
soning of  bay  leaf  and  onion  when 

, stewing  the  tomatoes.  To  make  an 

egg  sauce  add  four  hard  boiled  eggs, 
the  yolks^  put  through  the  ricer  and  the  whites  chopped  fine.  This  sauce 
is  very  nice  to  serve  either  with  chicken  or  boiled  salt  cod.  For  a Butter 
Sauce  substitute  boiling  water  instead  of  the  milk  or  cream,  adding  it  slowly 
beating  all  the  while. 


Milk 1 

Salt  % Teaspoonful 

Pepper ^ Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Double  Boiler  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Cup  Teaspoon 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  b'r  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


44 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  2. 

Materials. 

Butter 2 


HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 


Flour 


Grated  Onion 1 

Tarragon  Vinegar 
or  Lemon  Juice  2 

Yolks  of  Eggs 2 

Bay  Leaf 

Boiling  Water 

Salt  

White  Pepper 


Measure. 

Rounding  Table- 
spoonfuls 
Rounding  Table- 
spoonful 
Tablespoonful 

Tablespoonfuls 


Cup 

V2  Teaspoonful 


UTENSILS: 

Measuring  Cup  Sauce  Pan 

Measuring  Spoon  Double  Boiler 
Tablespoon  Small  Sieve 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  bay  leaf,  onion  and  vinegar 
over  the  fire  in  a small  stew  pan,  bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  cool.  Rub  the 
butter  and  flour  together  in  the  double 
boiler  and  add  gradually  the  water, 
stir  until  thickened  and  the  flour 
cooked.  Now  add  the  vinegar  strained. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  one  at  a time,  stirring 
gently.  Reheat  just  a moment ; add 
salt  and  pepper;  strain  and  serve  at 
once.  This  is  elegant  for  fish  or 
used  in  many  ways  with  vegetables, 
being  especially  nice  with  brussels 
sprouts,  spinach  and  asparagus.  This 
sauce  should  be  served  as  soon  as  made. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1900,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  3. 

Materials. 

Mushrooms 1 

Kitchen  Bouquet  ...  14 
Sweet  Green  Pepper  1 
White  Sauce  


MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 


Measure. 

Can 

Teaspoonful 


UTENSILS: 

Double  Boiler  Tablespoon 

Teaspoon 


DIRECTIONS. 


Make  according  to  recipe  for  White 
Sauce  (See  Recipe  1)  ; add  the  kitchen 
bouquet  and  1 can  of  mushrooms 
drained  and  rinsed  in  cold  water; 
stand  the  double  boiler  over  a slow 
fire  for  ten  minutes.  This  is  nice 
served  with  sweetbreads  or  warmed- 
over  chicken. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  bv  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  4.  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Chocolate 1 Square 

Sugar  . . 1 Cup  Melt  the  chocolate  in  the  double 

Boiling  Water  1 Cup  boiler.  Add  the  sugar  and  water.  Stir 

Vanilla  1 Teaspoonful  while  adding  the  water,  so  as  to  fojm 

Nuts,  chopped  % Cup  a smooth,  glossy  mixture  as  it  cooks. 

Keep  adding  the  water  and  the  sugar 
UTENSILS:  T.ntil  all  is  used.  Boil  until  thick  as 

Double  Boiler  Measuring  Cup  desired.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add 

Tablespoon  Teaspoon  vanilla  and  nuts  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs,  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


SAUCES. 


45 


Recipe  5. 


LEMON  SAUCE. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Flour 1 Tablespoonful 

Boiling  Water  1 Cup 

Sugar % Cup 

Egg  1 

Vanilla  1 Teaspoonful 

Lemon  1^  Teaspoonfuls 


UTENSILS: 

Double  Boiler  Measuring  Cup 

Grater  Lemon  Squeezer 

Egg  Beater 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes, 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co,,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  5.  Copyright,  1909,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk, 


DIRECTIONS. 

Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  well  to- 
gether in  the  double  boiler  and  pour 
over  quickly  in  the  boiling  water,  all 
the  time  until  it  thickens.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  lemon  juice 
and  grated  peel  and  pour  while  hot 
over  the  well-beaten  egg.  Mix-  w^ll. 
This  is  nice  sauce  to  serve  over  any  hot 
puddings. 


Recipe  6. 


HARD  SAUCE. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Butter 14  Cup 

Powdered  Sugar  ...  1 Cup 

Vanilla  1 Teaspoonful 

Brandy  1 Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Bowl  Small  Flat  Beater 

Measuring  Cup  Tablespoon 

Teaspoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  the  butter  in  cold  water  un- 
til it  is  elastic ; put  it  into  the  bowl  and 
heat  to  a cream.  When  light,  grad- 
ually add  the  sugar  beating  all  the 
while.  Add  vanilla  and  gradually  the 
brandy.  Put  into  an  attractive  dish 
to  serve.  Set  on  ice  until  wanted. 
Fresh  strawberries  are  a nice  addition 


to  this,  or  a little  grating  of  nutmeg 
over  the  top.  The  brandy  may  be  omitted  by  those  who  do  not  care  to  use 
it.  If  brandy  is  omitted  add  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  7.  MINT  SAUCE. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Gran.  Sugar  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Boiling  Water  1 Tablespoonful 

Chopped  Mint  3 Tablespoonfuls 

Olive  Oil  1 Tablespoonful 

Vinegar  Vq  Cup 

UTENSILS: 

Bowl  Measuring  Cup 

Tabl'":s;'‘OOn 


DIRECTIONS. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  boiling 
water  and  add  the  chopped  mint,  cover 
and  set  away  for  one  hour.  Then  drop 
by  drop  add  olive  oil  and  vinegar.  Mix 
well  together  and  serve  with  fresh 
lamb.  Finely  chopped  mint  mixed  with 
a glass  of  currant  or  green  grape  jelly 
is  an  agreeable  change. 


46 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  P.OOK. 


CRANBERRY  JELLY. 


Recipe  8. 


Measure. 

1 Quart 
14  Cup 

2 Cups 
2 

14  Teaspoonful 


UTENSILS: 

Paring  Knife  Measuring  Cup 

Stew  Pan  Measuring  Spoon 

Mould  Sieve 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  cran- 
berries, put  into  the  stew  pan  with  the 
water  and  apples  quartered  and  cored. 
Cover,  and  when  the  cranberries  are 
well  “ popped  ” open  and  the  apples 
tender  rub  through  a sieve  or  colander. 
Add  the  sugar,  return  to  the  fire,  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  bring 
only  to  the  boiling  point.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  flavor,  turn  into  a mould  or 
individual  glasses  and  serve  with  roast 
turkey.  The  cinnamon  and  apples  may 
be  omitted  if  desired. 


Materials. 
Cranberries  . 

Water 

Sugar  

Tart  Apples  . 
Cinnamon  . . 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  9.  APPLE 

Materials.  Measure. 

Tart  Apples  6 

Sugar  

Butter  1 Teaspoonful 

Nutmeg  


UTENSILS: 

Sauce  Pan  Colander 

Wooden  Spoon  V^etable  Paring 


SAUCE. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Wipe  the  apples,  cut  in  quarters 
and  core.  Put  into  the  sauce  pan  with 
half  a cup  of  water;  cover  and  cook 
until  soft.  Press  through  the  colander, 
add  the  sugar  and  butter  with  a slight 
grating  of  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Mix 
well  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 


SOUPS. 

(Soup  Stocks  and  Meat  and  Vegetable  Soups.) 


“ Scientific  cookery  in  the  home,  by  the  mistress  or  housekeeper,  means  the  elevation 
of  the  human  race.” 

(All  measurements  level  unless  otherwise  stated.  Flour  sifted  before 

measuring.) 

Most  soups  are  spoiled  by  making  them  in  too  much  of  a hurry,  and  cook  v 
ing  rapidly. 

Retaining  the  flavor  by  slow  cooking  and  by  having  a soup  kettle  with 


SOUPS. 


47 


a tightly  fitting  cover,  made  from  granite  or  aluminum  or  any  good  ware 
which  will  not  chip,  is  a necessity  in  making  good  soup. 

Have  it  large  enough  to  contain  meat,  bones  and  water,  and  room  for 
skimming.  When  all  is  ready  and  in  the  kettle,  place  over  the  fire  and  bring 
slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  skim.  Now  lower  the  flame  if  you  use  gas 
or  set  back  on  the  stove  to  simmer.  Never  boil  soup  as  it  makes  it  tasteless 
and  cloudy. 

Very  good  soup  stock  is  made  from  beef  alone  but  it  is  improved  in  flavor 
when  made  from  equal  parts  of  beef  and  veal.  Veal  and  chicken  make  a 
white  stock  and  delicate  in  flavor ; or,  again,  a stock  from  one-half  of  beef  and 
one-quarter  each  of  mutton  and  pork,  liver  and  ham  are  used  for  flavor. 

Americans  are  just  beginning  to  learn  the  value  of  having  soup  stock 
always  on  hand  to  use  for  gravies,  sauces,  made-over  dishes,  etc.,  which  has 
been  much  of  the  secret  of  taste  and  flavor  in  French  and  other  foreign  cooking. 

Soups  have  been  looked  upon  as  a dish  for  the  rich.  They  are  for  rich  and 
poor  alike. 

Use  the  clear  soups  or  those  with  vegetables  for  dinner. 

The  cream  or  heavy  soups  may  be  served  to  better  advantage  for  luncheon 
or  supper  dishes  and  if  we  realized  the  value  of  soups  we  would  have  them 
on  our  regular  bills  of  fare. 

Soups,  however,  should  not  be  gulped  down  or  taken  into  the  mouth  and 
then  swallowed,  but  held  long  enough  to  mix  well  with  the  saliva  before  enter- 
ing the  stomach. 

A great  variety  of  soups  to  suit  individual  tastes  and  occasions  may  be 
made  with  very  little  trouble,  but  learn  first  how  to  make  a good  soup  stock 
as  a basis  for  many  good  and  wholesome  soups. 


Recipe  1.  SOUP  STOCK. 

Materials.  Measure,  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Shin  of  Beef 3^  lbs. 

^gar'  XaMespoonful  . , the  meat  from  the  bones.  Put 

Onion  1 sugar  and  half  the  onion  sliced 

Cloves 6 into  the  soup-kettle,  stir  until  it  browns 

Bay  Leaf 1 and  forms  a caramel ; then  add  the 

UTENSILS*  bones,  and  water.  Cover  and 

Soup  Kettle,  porce-  Colander  ° 

lain  lined  or  gran-  Puree  Sieve  A™  rn'® 

mer  two  hours;  then  add  the  remain- 
ing half  of  onion  into  which  you  have 

stuck  the  cloves  and  bay  leaf.  Simmer 

another  hour  then  strain  through  the 
colander.  Put  the  stock  in  a cold  place  over  night.  In  the  morning  re- 
move the  fat,  put  back  into  the  soup-kettle.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  well 
with  the  crushed  shell  in  a half  cup  of  water.  Stir  this  well  into  the  stock. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Boil  hard  three  minutes,  skim  and  strain  through 
two  thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth.  A teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  may  be  added 
just  before  straining.  This  makes  the  stock  clear  and  sparkling  and  it  is  the 


48 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


foundation  of  innumerable  dinner  soups,  such  as  noodle,  vegetable,  rio^ 
macaroni,  etc. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cookinsr  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y, 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirlt 


Recipe  2.  GOOD  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Soup  Stock 1 Quart 

Carrot  1 

Turnip  1 

Potato 1 

Tomato  1 

Barley  1 Tablespoonful 

Parsley  (chopped)  ..  1 Tablespoonful 

Celery  Seed  M Teaspoonful 

Salt,  Pepper  or  Pap- 
rika   

UTENSILS: 

Two  Stew  Pans  Small  Knife 

Vegetable  Cutters 


DIRECTIONS. 

Soak  the  barley  two  hours  and  then 
put  into  a stew  pan  over  the  fire,  and 
simmer  very  gently  one  hour.  Prepare 
the  vegetables  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes 
or  dice.  Put  them  over  the  fire  covered 
with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  ten- 
der. Add  the  stock  to  the  barley,  and 
when  hot  the  cooked  vegetables  with 
the  tomato  cut  in  tiny  pieces,  and  all 
the  remaining  ingredients.  Simmer 
very  slowly  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and 
turn  into  a hot  tureen.  Additional 
seasoning  and  color  may  be  obtained 
by  the  use  of  a few  drops  of  Kitchen 
Bouquet. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  3.  TOMATO  SOUP  WITH  VEGETABLES. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Tomatoes 1 Can 

Carrot 1 

Stalks  of  Celery  ...  3 

Onion  1 

Soup  Stock  or  Water  1 Pint 

Kitchen  Bouquet  ...  V2  Teaspoonful 

Butter  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Flour  3 Tablespoonfuls 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

Bay  Leaf 1 

Paprika 

UTENSILS: 

Two  Stew  Pans  Measuring  Cup 

Tablespoon  Teaspoon 

Knife  Steel  Fry-pan 

Sieve 


DIRECTIONS. 

Add  the  stock  and  all  the  flavor- 
ings to  the  tomatoes  ; cover  and  simmer 
fifteen  minutes.  Cook  the  celery  and 
carrot  cut  in  small  pieces  in  a separate 
sauce  pan.  Brown  the  flour  in  the  fry- 
pan,  add  butter,  and  rub  together  until 
smooth.  Now  put  in  the  tomato  mix- 
ture and  stir  until  boiling  and  put 
through  a sieve.  Drain  the  vegetables, 
when  tender  unite  with  the  soup,  re- 
heat and  serve  with  croutons. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  bv  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


SOUPS. 


49 


Recipe  4. 


CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP. 


Materials. 

Milk 

Strained  Canned 

Tomatoes  

Bay  Leaf 

Butter  

Flour 

Mace  

Salt  

Sugar  

Soda 

Parsley  (chopped) 
Pepper  


Measure.  Weight. 
1 Quart 

1 Pint 
1 Large 

1 Rounding  Table- 
spoonful 

2 Rounding  Table- 
spoonfuls 

1 Blade 
1 Teaspoonful 
1 Teaspoonful 
Vi  Teaspoonful 
1 Tablespoonful 


UTENSILS: 

Double  Boiler  Measuring  Spoon 

Tablespoon  Sieve 

Soup  Tureen 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  the  tomatoes  into  stew  pan  ♦ 
with  the  bay  leaf  and  mace.  Cover  and 
simmer  slowly  fifteen  minutes.  Put 
the  milk  into  a double  boiler.  Rub  the 
butter  and  flour  together  adding  a little 
of  the  hot  milk  until  smooth.  Pour 
into  the  milk,  stirring  all  the  while  un- 
til it  thickens.  Strain  the  tomatoes  into 
a soup  tureen,  add  the  sugar,  soda,  salt 
and  pepper,  then  pour  in  the  creamy 
mixture  all  at  once,  stirring  very  gently 
until  well  blended.  Sprinkle  the  pars- 
ley over  the  top  and  serve  at  once. 
This  soup  should  never  be  thick  but 
of  a light  cream  consistency.  One-half 
the  amount  of  tomatoes  may  be  used  if 
preferred. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  bv  Yawman  &•  Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  190(5,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  5.  CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Peas  V2  Can 

“our  1 ^IblespoonMs  , , can  of  peas  fuHy  an  hour 

Butter  1 Tablespoonful  before  using  and  empty  at  once  from 

Salt  and  Pepper  • •••  the  can.  Put  the  milk  into  the  double 

Parsley  (chopped)..  1 Teaspoonful  • , , . , . 

Slice  of  Onion boiler  with  the  onion  and  rub  the 

butter  and  flour  together  until  smooth, 
UTENSILS:  with  a little  hot  milk,  and  then  pour 

Double  Boiler  Colander  it  into  the  double  boiler  with  the 

Measuring  Cup  Tablespoon  remaining  milk,  stirring  all  the  time 

Egg  Beater  Fine  Sieve  until  it  begins  to  thicken ; now  beat 

well  with  the  egg  beater  until  creamy, 

about  five  minutes.  Press  the  peas,  in- 
cluding -liquid,  through  the  colander 
and  put  into  the  double  boiler,  beat  again,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  press 
through  a fine  sieve,  add  finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve  with  croutons, 

which  are  made  by  spreading  slices  of  bread  with  butter  and  cutting  in 

2—4 


50 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


squares ; put  into  a pan  under  the  toaster,  watching  carefully  until  a nice 
brown  on  both  sides. 


Recipe  6.  CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Stalks  of  Asparagus  lV2  Dozen 

Cut  two  inches  from  the  tops  of 
fresh  asparagus  and  throw  them  into 
cold  water.  Cut  all  that  is  good  of  the 
remaining  portion  in  small  pieces  and 
put  into  the  stew  pan  with  the  given 
amount  of  boiling  water.  Cover  and 
simmer  gently  half  an  hour.  Press  well 
through  a colander.  Turn  this  into  the 
double  boiler  with  the  milk.  Rub 
butter  and  flour  together  in  the  bowl, 
adding  a little  of  the  hot  milk  until 
it  will  pour  like  good  cream.  Stir  this 
well  into  the  milk  mixture,  and  when 
it  begins  to  thicken  beat  well  with  the  egg  beater.  While  this  is  cooking, 
put  the  tips  into  a pan  with  the  bay  leaf,  slice  of  onion,  a little  salt  and  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  just  tender.  Drain. 
Have  soup  tureen  hot,  season  and  pour  in  the  soup  and  place  the  asparagus 
tips  on  top,  distributing  them  in  each  plate  of  soup.  Be  careful  in  cooking 
asparagus  with  milk,  as  an  acid  in  the  asparagus  is  apt  to  make  it  curdle. 


Onion  1 biice 

Boiling  Water  2 Cups 

Milk  4 Cups 

Flour  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Butter  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Bay  Leaf  1 

Salt  and  Pepper  . . . 

UTENSILS: 

Stew  Pan  Double  Boiler 

Measuring  Cup  Tablespoon 

Egg  Beater  Bowl 

Soup  Tureen 


Recipe  7. 


MOCK  OYSTER  SOUP. 


Materials. 

Vegetable  Oysters.. 

Boiling  Water  

Milk  

Onion  

Butter  

Flour  

Salt  

Pepper  

Parsley  

Vinegar  or  Lemon 
Juice  . , 

Stew  Pan 
Double  Boiler 
Colander 


Measure. 

12  Stalks 
1 Quart 
1 Pint 
1 Slice 

1 Tablespoonful 
1 Tablespoonful 


1 Sprig 

1 Tablespoonful 

Measuring  Cup 
Tablespoon 


UTENSILS: 


DIRECTIONS. 

Scrape  the  vegetable  oysters  and 
throw  at  once  into  cold  water  with 
the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  to  prevent 
discoloring;  cut  thin  slices;  put  these 
into  the  stew  pan  with  the  boiling 
water,  onion  and  sprig  of  parsley ; cook 
slowly  thirty  minutes  or  until  tender. 
Put  the  milk  into  the  double  boiler,  add 
the  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together, 
stir  until  it  is  smooth  and  begins  to 
thicken.  When  the  vegetable  oyster  is 
done  rub  through  the  colander  and 
pour  into  the  double  boiler,  season  and 
serve. 


VEGETABLES. 


51 


Recipe  8. 


POP-CORN  SOUP. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Ears  of  Corn 6 

Onion  1 Slice 

Butter  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

Milk 1 Quart 

Bay  Leaf 1 

Flour 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Pepper  

Pop-Corn  

UTENSILS: 

Sharp  Vegetable  Tablespoon 
Knife  Double  Boiler 

Measuring  Spoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  the  milk  into  the  double  boiler 
over  the  fire  with  the  bay  leaf  and 
onion.  Score  each  row  of  corn  down 
the  center  with  the  sharp  knife  and 
add  to  the  milk.  Rub  butter  and  flour 
together,  moisten  with  a little  of  the 
hot  soup,  to  make  a paste,  and  turn 
into  the  milk;  stir  constantly  about 
five  minutes,  or  beat  with  egg  beater. 
Serve  with  pop-corn  instead  of  wafers. 


VEGETABLES. 

(Full  directions  for  cooking  all  kinds  of  vegetables  and  retaining  their 

delicate  flavors.) 


" We  go  on  in  the  beaten  path  without  profiting  by  the  varieties  to  be  found  on  every 

side.” 

(All  measurements  level  unless  otherwise  stated.  Flour  sifted  before 

measuring.) 

Vegetables  are  divided  into  four  groups : 

1.  Muscle  Building  or  Nitrogenous. — These  take  the  place  of  meat  and 
are  such  as  peas,  beans,  lentils,  and  nuts. 

2.  The  Heat  and  Energy  Producers. — These  must  be  used  in  larger  quan- 
tities than  the  muscle  building  foods.  They  are  rice,  white  and  sweet  pota- 
toes, white  bread,  macaroni,  spaghetti,  chestnuts  and  the  cereals. 

3.  Fat  Producers. — These  include  nuts  and  olives.  This  group  is  one 
not  so  largely  used  or  considered.  Many  times  used  only  as  ‘‘  extras  ” when 
we  have  company.  This  is  a grave  mistake. 

4.  The  vegetables  of  this  group  are  important  as  cleaners  and  are  largely 
water,  mineral  water  and  fine  flavoring.  They  include  lettuce,  radishes,  cab- 
bage, celery ; in  fact,  all  the  green  succulent  vegetables  come  under  this  head 
and  are  used  largely  in  salads. 

All  vegetables  should  be  cooked  in  uncovered  vessels  in  boiling  water. 

Vegetables  growing  above  ground  should  have  salt  added  to  the  water. 
Underground  vegetables,  such  as  turnips  and  beets,  should  be  cooked  in  boil- 
ing, unsalted  water. 

Dry  vegetables,  such  as  old  peas  and  beans  should  be  soaked  over  night 
in  cold  water. 

To  freshen  vegetables  when  wilted,  soak  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Never 
add  salt  as  it  softens  them ; particularly  is  this  true  of  cucumbers. 

All  vegetables  must  be  thoroughly  cleaned  before  using  and  nothing  is 
better  for  this  than  a vegetable  brush  and  a sharp  pointed  knife. 

Many  pages  might  be  Avritten  on  the  food  value  of  vegetable  diet.  It  is 


52 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


the  one  thing-  in  cooking  that  requires  care;  it  is  the  one  thing  that  does  not 
get  it.  There  are  general  principles  underlying  all  vegetable  cooking  which 
are  easy  for  every  housekeeper  to  understand,  if  her  interest  can  be  aroused  to 
do  it.  As  vegetables  are  generally  cooked  they  are  tasteless  and  there  is  no 
branch  of  cooking  as  carelessly  done,  both  at  home  and  in  hotels  and  restau- 
rants, as  the  cooking  of  vegetables. 

Practically  all  the  elements  necessary  for  the  building  of  the  body  are 
found  in  vegetables  and  with  these  are  included  nuts  and  fruits.  Health  and 
nutrition  depend  upon  the  right  selection  and  combination  of  these.  There 
is  such  a variety  of  vegetables  to  be  had  in  every  state.  Combine  with  this 
their  clean  and  wholesome  qualities  and  it  is  a wonder  we  are  such  a meat 
eating  nation.  But  vegetable  cooking  requires  greater  care  than  cooking 
meat.  Careless  and  rapid  cooking  dissipates  the  flavor  and  then  we  have  a 
tasteless  article. 

Vegetables  should  not  be  closely  covered  while  cooking.  They  are  full 
of  volatile  oils — some  more  than  others — and  if  these  with  the  gases  generated 
by  cooking  are  not  allowed  to  pass  off  into  steam  the  vegetables  are  dark  and 
strong  in  flavor. 

Our  living,  habits,  and  character  are  largely  dependent  upon  what  we 
eat  and  we  must,  to  sustain  life,  eat  every  year  about  half  a ton  of  cooked  food. 
One  can  readily  see  that  a large  proportion  of  the  health,  comfort  and  happi- 
ness of  the  home  comes  from  the  dining  room  and  kitchen.  How  important  it 
is,  then,  that  we  and  our  daughters  should  be  educated  along  the  lines  of 
cookery.  The  practical  kind  where  they  can  apply  their  chemistry  both  in 
the  kitchen  and  laundry  if  need  be;  their  physiology  in  the  selection  and 
cooking  of  foods;  their  lessons  in  fine  arts,  in  the  harmony  of  foods.  Never 
be  at  the  mercy  of  your  cook,  but  know  these  things  yourself.  If  you  do  not 
you  will  have  not  only  badly  cooked  foods  but  unfriendly  combinations. 

Recipe  1.  BOILED  RICE. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Buy  the  best  South  Carolina  whole 
rice  and  put  the  given  amount  into 
cold  water,  washing  well.  Repeat  sev- 
eral times.  Then  cover  with  cold  water 
and  soak  over  night  or  for  several 
hours.  Have  the  stew  pan  ready  with 
the  boiling  water,  drain  the  rice,  and 
add  a little  at  a time  so  as  not  to  stop 
the  rapid  boiling.  Let  boil  very  rapidly  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  until 
a kernel  is  soft  under  pressure  with  a fork.  Drain  in  a colander  and  hold 
under  the  cold  water  faucet,  letting  the  cold  water  run  slowly  over  it.  This 
removes  the  starch  and  whitens  the  rice.  Now  sprinkle  with  salt  and  set 
the  colander  on  a pie  pan  in  a warm  oven  to  dry,  occasionally  tossing  the 
rice  up  and  down.  This  is  a fine  substitute  for  potatoes  at  least  twice  a 
week  and  may  be  served  with  a little  pitcher  of  melted  butter  or  butter  and 
sugar  or  a rich  brown  gravy. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking'  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Krbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyinght,  1008,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Rice  V2  Cup 

Salt V2  Teaspoonful 

Boiling  Water 2 Quarts 

UTENSILS: 

One  Large  Stew  Measuring  Cup 
Pan  Colander 


VEGETABLES. 


63 


Recipe  2.  RICE  CROQUETTES. 


Materials. 

Rice  

Milk  

Yolks  of  Eggs 

Chopped  Parsley  . . 
Salt  and  Pepper  . . . . 


Measure. 

1 Cup 
4 Cups 
4 

1 Tablespoonful 


UTENSILS: 

Frying  Basket  Measuring  Cup 

Kettle  Tablespoon 

Egg  Beater  Double  Boiler 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  the  rice  and  put  into  the 
double  boiler  with  the  milk.  Cook 
until  all  the  milk  has  been  absorbed  by 
the  rice.  Add  the  beaten  yolks,  pars- 
ley, salt  and  pepper.  Mix  and  cool. 
Shape  in  any  desired  form,  roll  in 
beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  set  in 
the  frying  basket  and  dip  into  hot  fat. 
These  may  be  served  with  cream  or 
tomato  sauce.  They  may  also  be 
shaped  like  little  nests  and  a nice  bit 
of  jelly  put  in  them  when  ready  to 
serve. 


Recipe  3.  POTATOES  O’BRIEN. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Chopped  Potatoes  ..  5 
Sweet  Green  Pepper  V2 
Salt  

Butter  2 Tablespoonftds 

Chopped  Parsley  ...  1 Tablespoonful 

Onion  1 Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Steel  Spider  Tablespoon 

Chopping  Bowl  and  Knife 
Measuring  Cup 


DIRECTIONS. 

Peel  and  slice  a medium-sized 
onion  and  remove  the  seeds  from  the 
pepper.  Chop  both  fine,  also  parsley. 
Chop  the  potatoes  and  mix  with  the 
first  mixture  and  salt.  Put  the  butter 
into  the  steel  spider — or  half  butter  and 
half  fryings ; when  hot  add  the  pota- 
toes. Smooth  and  when  they  brown 
stir  them  up.  Do  not  cook  them  too 
fast.  When  done  press  to  one  side  of 
the  spider,  brown  and  turn  out  on  a 
hot  platter  to  serve. 


HASHED  BROWN  POTATOES. 


Recipe  4. 

Materials.  Measure. 

Cold  Boiled  Pota- 
toes   2 

Salt  V2  Teaspoonful 

Pepper  

Cream  4 Tablespoonfuls 

Butter  1 Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Steel  Spider  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Spoon  Chopping  Bowl  and 
Knife 


DIRECTIONS. 

Chop  the  potatoes  rather  fine,  add 
salt  and  pepper  and  the  cream ; put  the 
butter  into  the  spider;  melt;  add  the 
potatoes,  smooth  down  nicely,  cover, 
cook  a moment  over  the  fire  and  push 
back  on  the  stove  where  they  will  cook 
slowly  10  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a hot 
platter  as  you  would  an  omelet. 


54 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  5.  POTATOES 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Potatoes  (boiled) ...  6 

Cream  1 Cup 

Flour  1 Tablespoonful 

Eggs  3 Yolks 

Stock  or  Milk  1 Cup 

Butter  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Grated  Cheese  .....  6 Tablespoonfuls 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

Paprika  V2  Teaspoonful 

Sweet  Pepper,  red 

and  green  1 of  each 

UTENSILS: 

Fry-pan  Baking  Dish 

Bowl  Egg  Beater 

Potato  Knife 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card 
Published  by  Yawman  & 1 
Copyright,  1906,  by 


AU  GRATIN. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together  un- 
til smooth  in  the  fry-pan,  add  stock 
and  cream  and  stir  until  it  boils,  take 
from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  well  beaten, 
cheese,  and  seasonings.  Put  a layer  of 
this  sauce  in  the  bottom  of  a baking- 
dish,  sprinkle  over  this  some  of  the 
peppers  chopped  fine,  then  a layer  of 
the  potatoes  sliced,  another  layer  of 
sauce  and  peppers,  and  so  continue, 
having  the  last  layer  sauce;  sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and  a few 
small  pieces  of  butter  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  until  brown.  Serve  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

ndex  Cooking  Recipes. 

rbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

'drs.  AHce  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  6. 

Materials. 


LIMA  BEANS. 

Measure. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Lima  Beans  

Butter  

Yolk  of  Eggs  

Parsley  

Lemon  Juic§  

Kitchen  Bouquet  . . 
Sprig  of  Mint 


1 Can 

2 Tablespoonfuls 
2 

1 Tablespoonful 

2 Tablespoonfuls 
% Teaspoonful 

1 


UTENSILS; 

Stew  Pan  or  Chafing  Dish 
Teaspoon  Tablespoon 


Choose  the  small  lima  beans.  Open 
the  can,  drain,  and  rinse  well  with  cold 
water.  Put  over  the  fire  with  just 
enough  water  to  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing until  well  heated  through-.  Beat 
the  butter  and  eggs  well  together,  add- 
ing the  parsley  finely  chopped  and  all 
the  remaining  seasonings.  Add  the 
sauce  carefully  to  the  beans  and  when 
hot  serve  at  once.  Peas  are  very  nice 
prepared  in  the  same  manner. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  7. 


PLAIN  ASPARAGUS. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Asparagus  1 Bunch 

Butter 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS;  ^ 

Tablespoon  Teaspoon 

Paring  Knife 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  well  a bunch  of  asparagus; 
cut  off  the  very  hard  portion  and  tie 
in  small  bundles.  Put  them  upright 
into  a kettle  of  water,  leaving  the  tips 
out  of  the  water  for  the  first  fifteen 
minutes.  Then  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain, 


VEGETABLES. 


56 


put  into  a dish  and  pour  over  the  carefully  melted  butter.  This  may  also  be 
served  on  nice  squares  of  toast  arranged  on  a hot  platter.  Pour  over  a sauce 
made  as  follovrs : 

Rub  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  well  together  in  a 
stew  pan;  add  one  cup  of  cold  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  it  reaches  the 
boiling  point.  Add  salt  and  pepper  and  strain  over  the  asparagus  and  toast. 
An  egg  beaten  into  the  sauce  just  as  you  remove  it  from  the  fire  is  a nice 
addition.  Serve  also  with  Hollandaise  sauce  for  a change, 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs,  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  8. 


ASPARAGUS  TIPS  IN  PATTIE  CASES. 


Materials. 

Pattie  Cases  . . . 
Asparagus  Tips 
Milk  and  Cream 

Butter  

Flour 

Salt  and  Pepper 


Measure. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Cups 

Cup 

Tablespoonful 

Tablespoonful 


Select  fresh,  tender  asparagus  and 
cut  in  inch  length  pieces  down  the 
stalk  as  far  as  tender.  Throw  into 
plenty  of  rapidly  boiling  water  and  boil 
until  tender.  Drain  and  save  the  water 
with  the  remaining  stalks  for  soup  the 
next  day.  Make  a white  sauce  with 
the  milk,  cream,  butter,  flour  and  sea- 
sonings.  Add  the  asparagus,  mix  care- 
fully so  as  not  to  have  the  pieces 
In  the  meantime  have  the  pattie  cases  heating;  fill,  set  on  a small 


UTENSILS: 

Sauce  Pan  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Cup 


mashed 

paper  doily  on  a hot  plate  and  serve  at  once. 


BAKED  STUFFED  TOMATOES. 


Recipe  9. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Tomatoes  4 

White  Bread 

Crumbs  

Grated  Onions  ....  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Egg  1 

Salt  and  Paprika  .. 

Butter  

Chopped  Parsley  ...  1 Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Vegetable  Knife  Grater 

Egg  Beater  Baking  Pan 

Measuring  Cup 


DIRECTIONS. 

Choose  medium-sized  tomatoes  of 
uniform  size,  wipe  clean  and  cut  at  the 
blossom  end.  Scoop  out  the  pulp  and 
mix  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs, 
the  chopped  onion — less  onion  if  you 
do  not  care  for  the  flavor — seasoning 
and  the  egg  beaten.  Fill  the  tomatoes, 
put  a piece  of  butter  on  top,  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a but- 
tered pan  with  hot  water  just  covering 
the  bottom.  Baste  with  melted  butter 
mixed  with  a little  water  and  bake  in 
a moderately  quick  oven  15  to  30 
minutes. 


56 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  10.  SWEET  POTATOES  EN  CASSEROLE. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Sweet  Potatoes 6 

Sherry  2 Tablespoonfuls  . Select  medium-sized  potatoes  of 

Maple  or  Brown  uniform- size.  Pare  and  cut  in  halves 

Sugar  2 Tablespoonfuls  lengthwise,  put  into  the  sauce  pan, 

cover  with  salted  boiling  water  and 
UTENSILS:  • ^ minutes.  Drain.  Melt  the 

Casserole  Vegetable  Knife  butter  and  pour  into  the  casserole. 

Put  in  a layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle 

lightly  with  salt,  bits  of  butter  and 

plenty  of  grated  maple  or  brown  sugar. 
Then  another  layer  of  potatoes  and  so  continue  until  all  are  used.  Add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  the  same  of  sherry.  Cover  and  set  in  a moderate 
oven  to  bake  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  When  done  the  potatoes  should 
be  moist  with  a little  thick  syrup  in  the  dish.  The  sherry  may  be  omitted  if 
you  do  not  use  wines. 


Recipe  11.  GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

DIRECTIONS. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Sweet  Potatoes  ....  6 

Gran.  Sugar  V2  Cup 

Water  V2  Cup 

Butter  V2  Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Sauce  Pan  Baking  Pan 

Measuring  Cup 


Wash  and  pare  medium-sized  po- 
tatoes, cut  in  halves  lengthwise  and 
throw  at  once  into  cold  water.  Have 
boiling  salted  water  in  the  sauce  pan; 
put  in  the  potatoes  and  boil  eight  or 
ten  minutes.  Drain.  Boil  sugar,  water 
and  butter  three  minutes  or  until  a 
syrup.  Dip  each  piece  of  potato  into 
this,  put  into  the  baking  pan  and  bake 
15  minutes.  Baste  them  two  or  three 
times  with  the  remaining  syrup. 


Recipe  12.  MASHED  TURNIPS. 


Materials.  Measure. 

White  Turnips 6 

Butter 1 Tablespoon 

Pepper  

Salt  

Cream  1 or  2 Tablesp’fuls 

UTENSILS: 

Stew  Pan  Small  Wooden  Spoon 


Potato  Ricer  or  Wooden  Potato  Masher 


DIRECTIONS. 

Select  firm,  white  turnips  or  the 
ruta-baga,  a large  yellow  variety. 
Wash  and  pare,  cut  in  slices  and  throw 
into  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  uncov- 
ered, just  below  the  boiling  point  until 
tender.  Drain  and  shake  a moment  over 
the  fire  until  dry.  Press  through  the 
potato  ricer  or  mash  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  butter  and  cream.  Heap 


VEGETABLES. 


in  a vegetable  dish  with  a dash  of  paprika  on  top  and  serve  very  hot  with 
duck  or  mutton ; also  very  nice  with  roast  pork  or  spare-ribs. 

Mrs,  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


CREAMED  CABBAGE. 


Recipe  13. 


Materials,  Measure. 

Finely  Cut  Cabbage  1 Quart 

Butter  1 Tablespoonful 

Egg  1 

Cream  % Cup 

Vinegar  ^ Cup 

Pepper  and  Salt  . . . 

UTENSILS: 

Sauce  Pan  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Cup  Slaw  Cutter 


DIRECTIONS. 

Cut  hard  white  cabbage  fine  and 
stand  in  cold  water  for  an  hour;  drain 
and  place  it  in  a covered  kettle  of 
boiling  salted  water  for  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  add  the 
vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  and  bring  to 
the  boiling  point.  Beat  the  egg  with 
the  cream,  the  melted  butter  and  mix 
well  with  the  cabbage.  Let  remain 
just  a moment  over  the  fire,  remove 
to  a hot  dish  and  serve. 


Recipe  14. 


SOUR  CREAM  SLAW. 


Materials.  Measure, 

Head  White  Cabbage 

Vinegar  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Eggs  2 

Salt  and  Pepper  . . . 

Thick  Sour  Cream..  V2  Cup 

Sugar 1 Teaspoonful 

Sweet  Green  Pepper  1 

UTENSILS: 

Slaw  Cutter  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Cup  Teaspoon 

Sauce  Pan 


The  eggs  may  be  omitted  and 
with  a silver  fork  until  it  is  light  an 


DIRECTIONS. 

Select  a firm,  white  head  of  cab- 
bage and  if  a large  one,  one-half  will 
be  sufficient.  Slice  fine,  cover  with 
cold  water  for  an  hour,  also  the  green 
pepper  cut  fine.  Drain  and  rub  in  a 
towel  until  dry.  Put  the  vinegar  into 
the  sauce  pan  and  when  hot  add  the 
eggs  well  beaten  and  mixed  with  the 
sour  cream.  Stir  until  it  thickens. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  season- 
ings. Mix  cabbage  with  this  and 
serve  cold. 

the  remaining  ingredients  beaten  in 
I foamy. 


Recipe  15.  GREEN  CORN. 

Remove  the  coarse  outside  husks  of  good  sweet  corn.  Loosen  the  fine 
husks  next  to  the  corn  and  roll  it  back  so  as  to  remove  all  the  silk.  Now 
roll  back  into  place.  Break  or  cut  off  the  butt  and  put  to  boil  in  a kettle  of 


.58 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  To  be  perfect  the  corn  should  be  cooked  as 
soon  as  possible  after  picking.  One-third  milk  with  the  boiling  water  makes 
the  corn  white. 


Recipe  16. 


CORN  FRITTERS. 


Materials. 

Ears  of  Corn 

Milk 

Flour  

Sugar  

Baking  Powder  .... 
Salt  


Measure. 

6 

1 Cup 
1 Cup 

1 Teaspoonful 
1 Teaspoonful 


UTENSILS: 

Measuring  Cup  Kettle 

Measuring  Spoon  Bowl 

Corn  Slitter  Egg  Beater 

Tablespoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Take  the  corn  and  press  out  the 
pulp  by  running  it  over  the  corn  slitter 
or  score  it  with  a very  sharp  knife. 
Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  re- 
maining ingredients,  the  baking  powder 
sifted  with  the  flour.  Beat  well  and 
stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites ; fry  in 
deep  fat  in  the  kettle,  dropping  a good- 
sized  teaspoonful  at  a time.  They 
should  puff  nice  and  round  and  are  nice 
for  lunch  with  maple  syrup. 


Recipe  17.  ESCALLOPED  CORN. 

Materials.  Measure  DIRECTIONS. 

Canned  Corn % Can 

Milk  1 Cup  Butter  the  baking  dish  and  put 

Butter  1 Tablespoonful  a layer  of  corn  in  the  bottom  of  the 

Bread  Crumbs  1 Teacupful  dish,  then  a layer  of  grated  white  bread 

crumbs,  salt  and  a little  pepper;  repeat 

UTENSILS:  until  all  is  used.  Dot  the  bits  of  but- 

Baking  Dish  Measuring  Cup  ter  over  it  and  pour  the  milk  over  the 

Grater  Measuring  Spoon  whole.  Bake  in  a quick  oven  about 

twenty  minutes. 


TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  CORN. 


Recipe  18. 

Materials.  Measure. 

Tomatoes  (medium)  4 
Green  or  Canned 
Corn  

Melted  Butter  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Cream  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Salt  and  Pepper  .... 

UTENSILS: 

Baking  Pan  Vegetable  Knife 

Tablespoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Use  sufficient  left-over  corn  from 
a previous  meal  or  canned  corn  to  fill 
the  scooped  out  tomatoes  from  the 
stem  ends  of  which  you  have  cut  off 
a slice  or  cap.  Mix  all  the  seasonings 
with  the  corn  before  filling.  Put  on  the 
caps  and  stand  them  in  the  buttered 
baking  pan  in  a hot  oven  for  half  an 
hour.  Serve  as  one  hot  vegetable  dish 
for  dinner.  Tomatoes  are  .also  nice 


VEGETABLES. 


59 


broiled  or  fried,  either  green  or  ripe.  They  must  be  cut  rather  thick,  rolled 
in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  then  fried,  browning  on  both  sides. 


Recipe  19. 


CARROTS  A LA  HOLLANDAISE. 


Materials. 

Carrots 

White  Turnips  . . . 

Parsley 

Hollandaise  Sauce. 


Measure. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Clean,  scrape  the  carrots  and  cut 
in  dice.  Throw  them  into  boiling  water 
and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Pare  the 
turnips,  cut  a slice  from  the  stem, 
scoop  out  the  center,  leaving  a cup. 
Put  into  plenty  of  unsalted  boiling 
water  and  simmer  until  tender.  When 

tender  lift  the  turnips  from  the  water 

and  drain.  Drain  the  carrots,  mix  with 
the  Hollandaise  Sauce.  Fill  these  in  the  turnip  cups,  garnish  with  parsley 
and  serve.  Carrots  are  very  nice  cooked  with  peas ; or  cook  plain  and  season 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  flour  and  a teaspoonful  of  Kitchen 
Bouquet. 


UTENSILS: 

Potato  Scoop  Two  Stew  Pans 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  20.  TOMATOES  ON  TOAST. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Tomatoes  3 

Chopped  Parsley  . . . 

Cream  ¥2  Cup 

Milk 1/2  Cup 

Flour  1 Tablespoonful 

Pepper  and  Salt  . . . 

Toast  

Butter  1 Tablespoonful 

Grated  Onion 1 Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Baking  Dish  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Cup  Toaster 

Vegetable  Knife 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  and  cut  the  tomatoes  in 
halves  crosswise ; set  in  a buttered 
baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a little  finely  chopped  parsley ; put 
a little  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of 
each  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven  about 
half  an  hour.  Do  not  bake  too  long  or 
they  will  fall  to  pieces.  Have  the  toast 
ready,  carefully  lift  one-half  tomato  to 
each  piece.  Make  the  sauce  with  the 
remaining  butter,  milk  and  cream, 
onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper  in  the  bak- 
ing pan  and  pour  this  over  the  tomatoes 
and  toast.  This  is  nice  for  breakfast, 
luncheon  or  supper. 


60 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  21.  ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 


Materials.  Measure, 

Tomatoes 6 or  8 

Butter  1 Tablespoonful 

Grated  Onion 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Bread  

Salt  and  Pepper  . . . 

UTENSILS: 

Baking  Dish  Tablespoon 

Vegetable  Knife 


DIRECTIONS. 

Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes  and 
cut  in  slices,  or  if  canned  ones  are  used, 
one-half  can  will  be  necessary.  Make 
croutons  of  the  bread  by  buttering,  cut- 
ting in  half-inch  squares  and  toasting. 
Butter  the  baking  dish  and  put  a layer  • 
of  the  bread  croutons  in  the  bottom, 


then  a layer  of  tomatoes  and  a little  of 

all  the  seasoning,  then  another  layer 
of  bread,  tomatoes,  and  so  continue,  having  bread  last  on  top,  with  bits  of 
butter,  and  bake  in  a quick  oven  about  half  an  hour. 


Recipe  22.  TOMATOES  DU  BARRY. 


Materials.  Measure. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Tomatoes 4 

Butter 1 Large  TablespTl 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

Onion  Extract 4 Drops 

Pepper  

Parsley . . 

UTENSILS: 

Stew  Pan  Tablespoon 

Skimm'er  Teaspoon 

Knife 


Select  smooth,  small  tomatoes, 
wash,  put  into  the  stew  pan  and  cover 
with  rapidly  boiling  water;  add  salt 
and  keep  boiling  at  a gallop  for  about 
ten  minutes  or  until  the  tomatoes  are 
tender,  when  pierced  with  a fork.  Re- 
move carefully  with  a skimmer  to  a 
hot  platter.  With  a sharp  pointed 
knife  cut  out  the  little  hard  stem  and 


cut  a horizontal  and  vertical  gash 

across  the  top  of  each.  Turn  or  roll 
back  for  a little  ways  the  outside  skin  and  pour  over  and  around  the  tomatoes, 
the  butter  and  seasonings  carefully  melted  by  standing'  in  hot  water.  Chop 
parsley  very  fine  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  of  each  tomato,  and  garnish  the 
dish  with  nice  bunches  of  parsley  at  each  end. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  "Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawm.an  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  23.  BOILED  CUCUMBERS. 

Select  good  sized  cucumbers  and  pare  them  ; cut  in  halves,  scoop  out  thfc 
seeds,  then  cut  each  in  two  crosswise.  Throw  these  into  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender,  about  thirty  minutes;  drain.  Lift  into  a hot  serving  dish  and 
pour  over  a white  sauce,  seasoned  ivith  grated  onion  and  chopped  parsley. 
Hollandaise  Sauce  is  also  good  with  these  cucumbers. 


VEGETABLES. 


61 


Recipe  24.  STUFFED  EGG  PLANT. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Egg  Plant  1 

Stale  White  Bread  Choose  a full,  dark  purple  egg 

En^glis™^kinuts- ! I c7p  P'f in  plenty  of  boiling  water 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful  fifteen  minutes.  While  boiling,  snell 

Chopped  Onion 1 Tablespoonful  and  chop  the  nuts,  grate  the  bread 

Savory  14  Teaspoonful  crumbs  and  chop  the  onion.  When  the 

plant  has  boiled  the  required  time, 

Egg^^.^.  ! 1 remove  from  the  kettle  and  cut  cross- 

wise in  halves,  and  with  a pointed  knife 
UTENSILS:  cut  out  the  pulp  about  one-half  inch 

Steel  Spider  Chopping  Bo-wl  and  from  the  outside  ; and  with  a spoon  re- 

Grater  Knife  move  it  from  the  shell.  Chop  this  fine. 

Tablespoon  Measuring  Cup  butter  into  the  spider,  melt, 

Cup  Egg  Beater  Baking  Ban  i i • i \ v • 

Sharp  Knife  the  onion  and  cook  it  until  it  is 

yellow  but  not  brown.  Then  add  the 

plant  and  cook  a moment,  then 

the  remaining  ingredients — except  the 
egg — mixing  all  well  together.  When  thoroughly  heated  remove  from  the 
fire  and  add  the  well-beaten  egg.  Stand  the  egg  plant  shells  in  a buttered 
pan  and  refill  with  this  mixture,  heaping  well  on  the  top  and  sprinkling  with 
bread  crumbs.  Baste  with  melted  butter  and  twice  again  while  baking  in 
a moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  This  is  a nice  luncheon  dish 
and  a perfect  substitute  for  meat. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Pnhlislied  by  Yawman  S:  Erhe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  25. 


STUFFED  SWEET  PEPPERS. 


Materials. 

Sweet  Peppers 

Cooked  Meat  

Onion  

Butter  

Parsley  

Salt  

Mushrooms  

Bread  Crumbs  

Water  or  Stock  . . . . 


Measure. 

6 

2 Cups 
1 

1 Tablespoonful 
1 Tablespoouful 
1 Teaspoonful 
’4  Cup 
V4:  Cup 
1 Cup 


UTENSILS: 


Paring  Knife 
Meat  Chopper 
Baking  Pan 


Measuring  Cup 

Tablespoon 

Teaspoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Cut  the  peppers  in  halves,  cross- 
wise, remove  the  seeds  and  cut  ofif  the 
stem,  or  leave  them  whole,  save  cutting 
off  a cap.  Chop  the  meat  (this  may  be 
veal,  chicken  or  lamb)  fine,  also  the 
onion  and  mushrooms.  Mix  all  the  in- 
gredients together  except  the  stock  or 
water:  fill  the  peppers  and  stand  in  a 
pan  and  nour  the  hot  stock  or  water 
around  them,  basting  often.  Bake 
slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  A 
nice  luncheon  dish. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


62 


THE  IMCOPLFAS  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  26.  SPINACH-— BOILED  AND  CREAMED. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Spinach  V2  Peck  , t-. 

Butter  2 Tablespoonfuls  Boiled  Spinach. — Fill  the  large  pan 

Cream  % Cup  with  lukewarm  water  and  take  each 

HirdBoii^d'kgg;:;  2 root  of  spinach  and  dip  up  and  down 

Pepper  .7...  water;  throw  into  another  pan 

Triangles  of  Toast. . 4 of  water  and  wash  the  same  way.  Trim 

off  as  much  or  as  little  of  the  root  as 
UTENSILS;  After  the  spinach  has  been 

MeasuringCup  Large  Pans  ^trashed  throw  into  a heated  kettle, 

cover  and  stand  over  a very  slow  fire 

for  a moment  until  the  juices  start. 

Uncover,  salt,  and  cook  in  its  own 
juices  about  20  minutes.  Drain  in  a colander  and  serve  hot.  This  may  be 
chopped  very  fine  if  preferred. 

Creamed  Spinach. — Cook  as  above,  drain  and  press  out  the  water.  Chop 
fine,  return  it  to  the  sauce  pan,  add  all  the  seasonings  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  hot.  Have  the  eggs  quartered  and  toast  ready.  Press  the  spinach  into 
a mold  or  dish,  then  turn  out  onto  a serving  dish.  Garnish  with  the  toast 
and  eggs  and  serve.  When  the  spinach  is  chopped  fine  it  can  be  pressed 
through  the  pastry  bag  and  tube,  or  if  you  have  any  left  it  can  be  molded 
in  small  cups  and  served  as  a salad  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS. 


“ Bestowed  with  lettuce  and  cool  herbs.” 

“ Salads  refresh  without  exciting,  and  make  people  younger.” 

(All  measurements  level.  Flour  sifted  before  measuring.) 

There  was  a time  when  it  was  quite  necessary  to  educate  people  to  eat 
salads.  While  this  might  not  have  been  true  in  foreign  countries  it  has  been 
in  our  own.  A salad  is  by  no  means  a modern  invention,  as  lettuce,  cress  and 
encumbers  were  used  by  ancients  for  dinner  salads,  although  the  dressing  was 
quite  different.  Nothing  is  more  appetizing  than  a fresh  green  vegetable  and 
French  dressing.  On  account  of  expense  and  time  simple  salads  should  be 
studied. 

The  vegetable  must  be  fresh  to  crispness,  the  simple  dressing  perfectly 
blended  and  all  ingredients  cold.  It  must  appeal  to  the  eye  as  well  as  to  the 
stomach.  To  become  an  expert  salad  maker,  one  must  have  a good  idea  of 
color  and  form,  a very  keen  sense  of  taste,  and  a desire  as  well  in  planning 
new  combinations.  Avoid  too  many  mixtures  and  the  materials  used  should 
be  harmonious  ones  both  as  to  color  and  proper  food  relations. 

With  lettuce,  cress,  endive,  as  the  most  common  “ greens  ’’  used  in  salads 
and  with  any  simple  dressing  you  have  a perfect  dinner  salad. 

Salads  are  not  simply  the  ''  fashion  ” but  they  are  in  strict  accordance  with 
our  well  being  and  should  find  a place  on  every  table  at  least  once  a day. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS. 


63 


SALADS  SERVED  WITH  FRENCH  DRESSING. 
Some  Combinations. 


Lettuce — Half  a tomato,  chopped  cucumber  and  green  pepper. 

Lettuce — Cream  cheese  moulded  with  chopped  pimentos  and  olives.  To- 
matoes with  mint  chopped  fine  in  French  dressing. 

Lettuce — Moulded  spinach  and  hard  boiled  eggs  or  beets. 

Dandelion — Watercress  and  tomatoes  cut  into  quarters  or  eighths. 

Lettuce — English  walnuts. 

With  any  succulent  green  vegetable  and  French  dressing  you  have — if 
well  made  and  served — a perfect  dinner  salad. 

These  green  or  succulent  vegetables  contain  the  necessary  salts  for  the 
blood ; the  lemon  or  vinegar,  the  acid ; and  the  oil,  a most  wholesome  and 
easily  digested  fat. 

The  amount  of  oil  to  be  used  in  either  the  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing 
depends  upon  the  individual  taste.  One  person  may  like  more  oil  and  less  of 
the  acid  and  vice  versa,  hence  only  general  rules  can  be  given  for  these 
dressings. 

Recipe  1.  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Materials.  Measure. 

Ohve  Oil  ^V2  Ph!t^  mayonnaise  mixer  on  ice. 

Lemon  Juice  3 Tablespoonfuls  Separate  the  yolks  very  carefully  and 

Salt  *. ..  V2  Teaspoonful  put  into  the  bowl  of  the  mixer.  Turn 

Paprika  % Teaspoonful  dasher  until  the  yolk  is  slightly 

as  o ayenne...  beaten.  Then  from  the  dropper  add  the 

UTENSILS:  oil  a drop  at  a time,  stirring  steadily, 

Christy  Mayon-  Glass  * Lemon  wi^^il  one  dropperful  has  _ been  used; 

naise  Mixer  Squeezer  then  a little  more  at  a time  may  be 

Measuring  Cup  Tablespoon  added  until  half  the  oil  has  been  beaten 

Teaspoon  Now  begin  to  alternate 

with  the  lemon  juice  and  oil  until  all 

are  well  blended.  Put  in  seasonings, 
pour  into  a pint  jar,  screw  on  cover  tightly  and  place  in  refrigerator  where  it 
will  keep  for  two  weeks.  When  ready  to  use  it  may  be  thinned  with  whipped 
cream  or  the  white  of  an  egg  well  beaten.  Tarragon  or  plain  vinegar  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  lemon  juice  if  preferred.  This  should  be  made  in 
five  to  eight  minutes.  A Dover  egg  beater  may  be  used  but  it  will  take  much 
longer. 

Parsley  Mayonnaise. 

Chop  and  pound  fine  one  tablespoonful  of  parsley,  adding  a few  drops 
of  lemon  juice.  To  this  add  one  cup  of  good  thick  mayonnaise  and  a tiny 
bit  of  the  desired  coloring  from  any  good  fruit  coloring.  Do  not  add  any 
fruit  coloring  unless  it  is  necessary  as  the  coloring  from  the  parsley  is  usually 
sufficient.  If  you  do  not  happen  to  have  lemon  juice  two  or  three  drops  of 
alcohol  will  start  the  juices  and  coloring. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


64 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  2.  FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Olive  Oil  6 Tablespoonfuls 

Vinegar  or  Lemon  Rub  the  bowl  with  the  clove  of 

1 Tea<;nnrmfni  ^arlic  and  add  a piece  of  ice  the  size 
Garlic'  1 K of  a hickory  nut.  Put  in  salt  and  pep- 

Paprika  % Teaspoonful  per,  adding  gradually  the  oil,  stirring 

UTENSILS*  rapidly.  When  the  salt  is  dissolved, 

Bowl  Tablespoon  gradually-lemon  juice 

Teaspoon  tarragon  vinegar  may  be  used.  To 

vary  this  a teaspoonful  of  Worcester- 

“ — shire  Sauce  may  be  added,  or  a few 

drops  of  Kitchen  Bouquet.  Mint  is 
excellent  chopped  fine  in  French  dressing  over  tomatoes,  or  a tablespoonful 
of  chopped  chives  or  chopped  parsley. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  bv  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co,.  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  3. 

Materials. 

Sugar  4 Peaspoonfuls 

Flour  2 Teaspoonfuls 

Cayenne  Pepper  . . . 

Salt  . . . .^ 1 Teaspoonful 

Mustard  * Teaspoonful 

Vinegar  V2  Cup 

Egg  ....  1 

Butter Size  of  Walnut 

UTENSILS: 

Double  Boiler  Measuring  Spoon 

Egg  Beater  Measuring  Cup 


DIRECTIONS. 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  to- 
gether and  slowly  add  the  vinegar. 
Heat  in  the  double  boiler  and  while  so 
doing,  beat  one  egg  very  light,  then 
pour  the  seasoned  vinegar  onto  the  egg 
with  the  butter.  Set  back  over  the  hot 
water  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stir- 
ring constantly.  When  cold,  thin  a 
little  with  sweet  cream,  beating  well. 


COOKED  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Measure. 


POTATO  SALAD. 

Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 


Recipe  4. 

Materials. 


Potatoes  4 

Cucumber  1 

Small  On’on  1 

Clove  of  Garlic  ....  1 

Oil  6 Tablespoonfuls 

Vinegar  3 Tablespoonfuls 

Parsley  1 Tablespoonful 

Salt  1 Teaspqonful 

Mayonnaise  Dress- 
ing   % Cup 

UTENSILS: 

Stew  Pan  Potato  KnTe 

Salad  Bowl  Cbonping  Bowl  and 

Knife 


Boil  the  potatoes  with  the  skins  on. 
When  done  drain  and  shake  near  an 
onen  window  to  have  them  dry  and 
white.  Remove  the  skins  and  cut  the 
potatoes  in  dice.  Rub  the  salad  bowl 
with  the  garlic.  Chop  the  onion  very 
fine  or  grate,  and  with  the  potato  put 
it  into  the  bowl  and  poui  over  French 
dressing  made  from  the  salt,  pepper, 
oil  and  vinegar.  Set  this  in  a cool 
place  for  one  hour.  Have  the  cucum- 
ber pared  and  in  ice  water  the  same 
length  of  time.  Then  cut  it  in  dice  and 
add  to  the  potatoes  with  the  mayon- 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS. 


()5 


liaise.  Sprinkle  with  parsley  chopped  very  fine.  Garnish  also  with  parsley 
or  lettuce  and  beets  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  5.  THANKSGIVING  SALAD. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Materials.  Measure. 

Red  Cabbage  1 Trim  and  wash  the  white  cabbage, 

MaTOnnalse^fr  ' quarters  and  slice  very  thin, 

cooked  salad  Throw  into  ice  water  and  let  stand  for 

dressing  two  hours.  Do  the  same  with  the 

Sv^et  Green  ^ celery,  adding  a slice  of  lemon  to  each. 

Celery^^^^  “ There  should  be  one-half  as  much 

Small  Pickles  ..!.!*  2 celery  as  cabbage.  Trim  and  wash  the 

Olives  3 head  of  red  cabbage  and  carefully  re- 

Pffsley  1 Tablespoonful  move  the  center,  turning  the  outside 

^ espoon  u leaves  out  and  down  in  as  graceful 

UTENSILS:  lines  as  possible.  Chop  that  which  was 

Sharp  Vegetable  Mayonnaise  Mixer  taken  from  the  center  and  put  in  ice 

Knife  Chopping  Bowl  and  . water.  Make  the  mayonnaise  either 

Large  Bowl  Knife  with  oil  or  a cooked  dressing,  but 

whichever  is  used,  add  to  each  pint  a 

teaspoonful  of  mustard.  When  ready 
to  use,  drain  and  dry  the  cabbage  and  celery  in  a towel ; shred  the  peppers 
and  mix  white  cabbage,  celery  and  peppers  well  together  with  the  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Have  draining  the  red  cabbage,  shell  and  fill  with  this  mixture, 
leaving  a well  large  enough  to  hold  the  red  cabbage,  which  is  mixed  with  a 
cup  of  the  mayonnaise  to  which  has  been  added  the  olives,  pickles,  parsley 
and  chives  chopped  fine.  Fill  the  well  with  this  red  mixture  and  garnish 
with  spoonfuls  topped  with  a whole  caper.  Set  the  whole  on  a plate  covered 
with  a doily  with  hearts  of  lettuce  to  be  used  each  serving,  and  send  to  the 
table. 


Recipe  6.  CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

One  Chicken 4V2  Cups 


Celery  

Mayonnaise  

Shelled  Pecans V2  Cup 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs.. 

Parsley  or  Celery 

Tips  

Salt  and  Paprika  . . . 

UTENSILS: 

Sharp  Kitchen  Sharp  Knife 

Shears  Salad  Bowl 

Potato  Ricer 


Select  a good  plump  fowl,  clean 
and  disjoint  and  put  on  to  cook  in  boil- 
ing water;  boil  five  minutes  and  then 
simmer  for  two  or  three  hours  with 
one  bay  leaf,  a dozen  cloves  and  a 
small  onion.  Remove  the  skin  and 
with  the  shears  cut  the  meat  in  half- 
inch cubes  or  pieces  and  an  equal 
amount  of  celery,  the  latter  having 
stood  in  ice  water  and  then  wiped  dry. 
Marinate  with  a French  flressing  (Re- 
cipe 2,  under  Salads).  Just  before 


2-5 


(If) 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


serving,  drain,  mix  well  with  mayonnaise  dressing  (Recipe  1,  under  Salads), 
to  which  has  been  added  one-third  whipped  cream.  Now  fold  in  the  nuts 
without  breaking.  Pile  in  a salad  dish,  garnish  with  the  hard  boiled  eggs 
forced  through  the  potato  ricer,  alternating  with  rows  of  white  and  yellow 
of  egg  and  capers,  with  here  and  there  parsley  or  celery  tips  to  finish  the 
garnish.  Lettuce  may  be  used  but  it  gives  a much  stiffer  appearance. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  7.  SALAD  A LA  KIRK. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Have  ready  one-half  cup  of  stiff 
mayonnaise,  with  the  addition  of  four 
olives,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  one  teaspoonful  of  capers,  two 
small  gherkins  all  chopped  fine  and 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion 
added  to  the  mayonnaise  you  will  have 
Tartar  sauce.  Peel  and  slice  the  cu- 
cumber lengthwise  and  cut  each  half  in 
two,  crosswise.  Notch  each  end  with  the  slicer  and  scoop  out  each  center. 
Lay  on  a leaf  of  watercress. 

Fill  with  Tartar  sauce  and  lay  diagonal  finely  cut  strips  of  the  pimentos 
across  the  top,  placing  between  each  strip  at  regular  intervals  a caper.  If 
the  lettuce  is  used  a touch  of  parsley  at  each  end  of  the  cucumber  brin^w 
out  the  necessary  color. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Cucumber  1 

Lettuce  

Tartar  Sauce  V2  Cup 

Pimentos  

Parsley  

Capers  

UTENSILS: 

Vegetable  Slicer  Sharp  Knife 


Recipe  8. 


MAY  SALAD. 


Materials. 


Measure. 


Potatoes  1 Pint 

Fresh  Shrimps  ....  1 Pint 

Stock  

Cucumber 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs.. 

Mayonnaise  

Chopped  Chives  ...  1 Teaspoonhil 

Lemon  1 

Parsley  or  Lettuce. 


UTENSILS: 


Stew  Pan 
Bowl 

Measuring  Cup 
Tablespoon 


Lattice  Vegetable 
Sheer 

Mayonnaise  Mixer 


DIRECTIONS. 

Pare  and  cut  in  dice  sufficient  po- 
tatoes to  make  a good  large  pint  and 
pour  over  sufficient  boiling  stock  or 
consomme  and  cook  until  tender;  drain, 
marinate  with  French  dressing  and 
cool.  Shell  the  shrimp  and  marinate 
in  lemon  juice  for  one  hour.  Unite 
the  shrimps,  after  draining,  with  the 
potatoes  and  mix  well  with  the  mayon- 
naise. Heap  in  a mound  on  a glass 
dish,  mask  with  mayonnaise  and  chives 
sprinkled  over  the  top.  Garnish  with 
slices  of  the  cucumber  latticed,  and 
fancy  cuts  of  the  hard  boiled  eggs,  with 
parsley  arranged  at  either  end  in  large 
bunches. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS. 


67 


Recipe  9. 


JUNE  13th  SALAD. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Make  the  lemon  jelly  from  any 
good  recipe  in  your  cook  book  or 
from  Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking 
Recipes. 

Wet  the  mold  in  cold  water  and 
brush  very  lightly  with  olive  oil.  Pour 
in  the  lemon  jelly  and  set  in  the  refrig- 
erator to  harden.  Put  the  berries  into 
the  colander,  wash  and  drain  thor- 
oughly. Stem  the  berries  and  set  in 
a cold  place.  Shred  a fresh  pineapple,  drain  well  and  chill.  Whip  the  cream 
and  mix  carefully  with  the  mayonnaise  and  then  with  a silver  or  wooden 
fork  unite  with  the  berries  and  pineapple!  Turn  the  mold  of  lemon  jelly 
onto  a pretty  dish,  fill  the  center  with  the  fruit  mixture,  garnish  with  the 
lettuce  and  heap  strawberries  around  with  spoonfuls  of  whipped  cream,  or 
cream  mayonnaise.  Serve  at  once.  This  may  be  served  at  the  close  of  a 
luncheon  with  very  thin  bread  and  butter. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Lemon  Jelly 1 Pint 

Strawberries  1 Quart 

Pineapple  1 Pint 

Mayonnaise  Cup 

Whipped  Cream  ...  % Cup 

Lettuce  

UTENSILS: 

Open  Mold  Lemon  Squeezer 

Colander  Measuring  Cup 

Cream  Whip 


Recipe  10. 


TOMATO  JELLY. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Granulated  Gelatine  % Box 

Cold  Water V2  Cup 

Tomatoes  V2  Can 

Celery  1 Stalk 

Bay  Leaves 2 

Onion  1 Slice 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

Lemon  Juice 1 Tablespoonful 

Tarragon  Vinegar...  1 Tablespoonful 

Paprika  % Teaspoonful 

Mayonnaise  

UTENSILS: 

Measuring  Cup  Stew  Pan 

Knife  Lemon  Squeezer 

Teaspoon  Tablespoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  a half 
cup  of  cold  water;  soak  half  an  hour. 
Put  into  a stew  pan  tomatoes,  celery, 
bay  leaves  and  onion.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  simmer  gently  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  the  gelatine  and  strain 
through  a fine  sieve ; put  into  this 
lemon  juice,  tarragon  vinegar  and  pap- 
rika. Turn  into  a mold  or  molds  and 
stand  aside  to  harden.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1006,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


()S 


Recipe  11.  TOMATO  CROWN  SALAD. 


Materials. 

Measure. 

Tomato  Jelly  (Re- 

cipe 10)  

Celery  

1 Cup 

Apples 

1 Cup 

Lemon  

1 

Cream  

Vj  Cup 

Mayonnaise  

V2  Cup 

Nuts  

Capers  

UTENSILS: 


DIRECTIONS. 

Make  the  tomato  jelly  recipe  and 
pour  into  an  open  mold.  Turn  out  on 
a round  glass  salad  plate  and  garnish 
with  the  delicate  green  and  white 
leaves  of  celery.  Quarter,  core  and 
peel  apples  sufficient  when  cut  in  dice 
to  make  one  cupful.  Rub  the  quarters 
with  sliced  lemon  to  prevent  discolora- 


tion. Cut  with  shears  the  same  amount 
of  tender  white  celery.  Unite  these 
two*  with  one-half  cup  of  mayonnaise 
(use  lemon  in  making  this)  and  one- 
half  cup  of  cream,  measure  before  whip- 
ping. Mix  gently  all  together  with  a silver  fork  and  pour  into  the  center  of 
the  jelly  mold,  heaping  high,  and  garnish  with  nuts  or  capers.  This  is  not 
only  a very  attractive  salad,  but  a delicious  one  as  well,  and  particularly 
suited  for  supper,  luncheons  and  receptions. 


Measuring  Cup  Knife 
Glass  Salad  Plate  Open  Mold 
Silver  Fork  Shears 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfsr.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


DESSERTS. 

(Including  Pies,  Short  Cakes,  Tarts,  Fruit  Whips,  Fruit  Cups,  Jellied 
Fruits,  Puddings,  Ice  Creams  and  Sherbets.) 


“ And  if  the  dish  contentment  brings, 

You’ll  dine  with  me  again.” 

(All  measurements  level.  Flour  sifted  before  measuring.) 

In  these  days  of  correct  and  careful  living  the  dessert  is  the  smallest  part 
of  the  meal.  It  is  the  final  sweet  at  either  lunch  or  dinner.  But  the  success  or 
failure  of  an  entire  dinner  very  largely  rests  upon  the  careful  selection  and 
preparation  of  this  last  course. 

Heavy  desserts  should  be  avoided  when  the  meat  course  has  been  par- 
ticularly rich  and  heavy.  Desserts  should  be  planned  that  do  not  contain  the 
same  elements  as  found  in  the  meat.  For  instance,  in  a roast  pork  dinner  do 
not  serve  suet  pudding,  or  in  a boiled  ham  dinner  do  not  serve  mince  pie,  or 
in  a roast  beef  dinner  do  not  serve  a custard  rich  in  eggs,  as  in  all  of  these 
your  dinner  will  be  unbalanced.  Substitute  the  light  whipped  cream  desserts, 
fruits  or  cheese  and  wafers. 

With  a vegetable  dinner  serve  desserts  rich  in  milk  and  eggs.  It  may 
all  be  summed  up  in  a few  words.  A dessert  must  harmonize  with  the  dinner. 
It  is  the  beginning  and  the  end  which  we  remember  and  the  dessert  should  be 
in  perfect  keeping  with  the  food  which  has  preceded  it  at  the  meal.  Iced 


(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 

NO.  4.  TABLE  SET  EOR  A DINNER  \VlIh:RE  THE  EIRST  COURSE  IS  A 

FRUIT  COCKTAIL. 

This  is  to  be  followed  with  a soup  course  or  not  as  one  chooses.  The  small  plate 
holding  the  cocktail  glass  is  on  the  regular  ten-inch  service  plate  which  is  to  remain  on 
the  table  for  any  other  course  which  is  to  follow  up  to  the  regular  meat  course  when 
it  is  to  be  removed  and  regular  dinner  plate  brought  in. 

The  knives,  forks  and  spoons  arc  arranged  in  their  respective  places.  The  fork 
to  right  of  knife  is  the  one  to  be  used  for  the  cocktail;  or.  if  much  juice  is  in  the  cock- 
tail, a s])Oon  should  be  substituted  in  place  of  fork,  being  laid  in  exactly  the  same 
place  as  the  cocktail  fork.  All  silver  placed  to  the  right  of  the  meat  knife  is  sup- 
posed to  be  used  preceding  the  meat  course. 

Note  the  arrangement  of  the  glasses:  the  water  glass  at  the  end  of  the  knife 
blade;  cordial  glass  next,  which  is  taken  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal;  the  sherry  glass 
next,  which,  usually  comes  with  the  fish  course  and  may  be  omitte.d  if  no  fish  is  served; 
and  the  next  is  the  claret  glass  which  is  to  be  used  during  the  entire  meal. 


DESSERTS. 


09 


watermelon  and  very  cold  desserts  should  be  indulged  in  very  sparingly  by 
most  people  when  they  follow  a hearty  dinner.  Nothing,  however,  shows  the 
extreme  dainty  cooking  and  thought  as  does  the  dessert.  This  is  often  pre- 
pared by  the  housekeeper’s  own  hands  and  everyone  is  eager  for  new  ways  of 
preparing  attractive  and  delicious  dishes. 

Many  desserts  may  be  made  in  the  morning  and  set  in  a cool  place  and  are 
ready  for  use  when  desired.  Desserts  to  be  moulded  should  receive  careful 
attention  to  have  perfect  success.  Wet  the  mold  in  cold  water  before  using 
and  when  ready  to  remove,  dip  for  an  instant  into  hot  water.  Lay  the  dish 
you  wish  to  serve  it  on  over  the  mold,  invert,  and  it  will  come  out  more  easily 
than  by  wiping  with  a warm  cloth  as  the  heat  is  uniform  on  the  mold  and 
leaves  no  chance  for  it  to  stick. 

Frozen  desserts  are  very  satisfactory  when  made  at  home  and  the  grow- 
ing popularity  for  many  frozen  desserts  is  due  largely  to  the  simplicity  of  the 
present  make  of  ice  cream  freezers. 

There  are  large  ones  and  small  ones  and  those  specially  nice  for  flat  or 
small  family  use  where  the  freezer  can  be  set  in  the  kitchen  sink.  Use  an  ice 
chipper  and  shave  the  ice  into  a pail,  using  one-third  coarse  rock  salt  and  two- 
thirds  ice  and  mix  well  together.  Have  the  freezer  can  perfectly  clean  and 
cold.  Put  the  cream  mixture  into  it,  adjust  all  the  other  parts  and  pack  closel}^ 
the  ice  and  salt  mixture  around  the  can  and  over  the  top.  Turn  the  crank 
steadily,  but  not  too  fast,  until  it  is  frozen  to  the  desired  consistency.  Wipe 
the  top  of  the  can  to  prevent  any  salty  water  from  getting  into  it.  Remove 
the  dasher,  scrape  off  all  the  cream  quickly,  pack  down  evenly  and  re-cover, 
using  a dean  piece  of  muslin  for  this  and  a cork  to  put  into  the  cover. 

Pour  off  the  water  from  the  melted  ice  and  re-pack  with  ice  clear  over  the 
very  top ; cover  with  paper,  burlap  or  carpet  and  stand  aside  two  hours  to 
ripen.  The  best  ice  creams  are  made  only  from  a good  quality  of  cream. 
Scald  half  of  the  cream  with  the  sugar,  cool  and  add  the  flavoring  and  the  re- 
maining cream  and  freeze.  If  fruits  are  to  be  used,  mash  and  add  after  the 
cream  is  frozen. 

Ices  of  all  kinds  should  be  frozen  slowly.  In  making  sherbets  turn  the 
freezer  very  rapidly  and  a meringue  of  the  white  of  one  egg  and  one  table- 
spoonful of  sugar  may  be  added  after  it  is  frozen. 

Recipe  1.  PLAIN  PASTRY. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Pastry  Flour  2 Cups 

Lard  ^ Cup 

Butter  % Cup 

Salt  ¥2  Teaspoonful 

Sugar  1 Teaspoonful 

Cold  Water 


UTENSILS: 

Pastry  Board  Rolling  Pin 

Flour  Sifter  Measuring  Cup 

Bowl  Measuring  Spoon 

Pastry  Cutter  or  Knife 


DIRECTIONS. 

Have  all  materials  cold,  including 
the  bowl  in  which  the  pastry  is  to  be 
mixed.  Measure  the  dry  ingredients 
into  the  flour  sifter  and  sift  into  the 
bowl.  Measure  the  shortening  and 
with  the  pastry  cutter  or  knife  cut 
this  well  into  the  flour.  Do  not  put 
the  hands  into  it,  as  the  main  thing  in 
pastry  is  to  keep  it  cold  and  it  is  the 
expansion  of  this  cold  air  in  the  oven 
when  baking  that  makes  the  pastry 
light  and  flaky.  Add  cold  water  a 


ro 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


little  at  a time  and  as  mixed  push  to  one  side ; add  more  and  do  the  same, 
until  water  has  been  added  sufficient  to  take  up  the  dryness  and  no  more. 
Now  bring  all  together  in  one  mass,  cover  and  set  in  a cold  place  two  or 
three  hours,  if  possible,  as  the  crust  is  then  much  easier  to  handle  and  more 
flaky  when  baked.  This  recipe  will  answer  for  all  pies. 


Recipe  2.  RHUBARB  PIE. 

(Also  Fresh  Fruit  Pies.) 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Rhubarb  2 Cups 


Select  fresh,  young  rhubarb  and  do 
not  peel  it  but  wash  and  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Mix  flour  and  sugar  well  to- 
gether, then  the  egg,  lemon  juice  and 
the  given  amount  of  rhubarb.  Have 
pastry  made  the  day  previous,  roll  and 
cover  the  pie  pan.  Pour  in  the  rhu- 
barb mixture,  break  the  butter  in  bits 
over  this ; roll  the  upper  crust ; brush 
the  lower  edge  with  cold  water,  put 
on  the  cover,  press  the  edges  together 
and  then  loosen  both  from  the  edge  of 
the  pan.  Then  with  the  expansion  in  the  baking  the  edges  stay  together 
and  no  juices  are  lost.  Brush  over  with  cream  and  bake  in  a quick  oven 
35  minutes. 

Cherry,  currant  and  other  fresh  fruit  pies  may  be  made  in  this  way. 


Sugar % Cup 

Egg  1 

Flour  1 Tablespoonful 

Lemon  Juice  ......  1 Tablespoonful 

Butter  1 Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Measuring  Cup  Pastry  Board 
Rolling  Pin  Pie  Pan 

Teaspoon  Tablespoon 

Bowl  Perforated  Pie  Tin 


Recipe  3.  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Milk  2 Cups 

Eggs  3 Break  the  eggs  into  the  bowl  and 

Sugar  4 Tablespoonfuls  beat  without  ^ separating  until  light, 

Salt 1 Pinch  gradually  adding  the  sugar  then  the 

Nutmeg  milk.  Have  the  pastry  on  the  pie  pan 

and  pour  in  the  custard ; grate  some 
nutmeg  over  the  top  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  25  minutes.  . Try 
Egg  Beater  Measuring  Cup  in  the  center  with  a teaspoon  handle  ; 

Tablespoon  Bowl  if  it  comes  out  dry  it  is  done.  ^ If  it 

pjg  bakes  too  long  or  too  fast  it  will  be 

watery. 


DESSERTS. 


ri 


Pecipe  4. 


LEMON  PIE. 


Materials.  Measure. 

B'ot  Water  1 Cup 

Bread  Crumbs, 

white  and  fine ¥2  Cup 

Sugar  ¥2  Cup 

Juice  and  Grated 
Rind  of  Lemon..  1 

Eggs  2 

Salt  Pinch 


UTENSILS: 

Egg  Beater  Measuring  Cup 

Spoon  Bowl 

Perforated  Pie  Pan 


DIRECTIONS. 

Pour  the  hot  water  over  the  bread 
crumbs,  add  the  salt,  sugar,  lemon,  and 
yolks  well  beaten.  Pour  into  pie  crust 
and  bake  in  not  too  hot  an  oven  until 
done.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  when  the  pie 
is  cool  pipe  roughly  over  the  top  and 
brown  in  a cool  oven,  or  the  whites 
may  be  well  beaten  and  mixed  with 
the  other  ingredients  and  baked. 


Recipe  5. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

Materials. 

Gran.  Gelatine  . . 

Measure. 
. . . 1 Box 

DIRECTIONS. 

Large  Lemons  . 
Boiling  Water  .. 

. ..  3 

. . . 1 Quart 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  the  cold 

Cold  Water  .... 

. . . 1 Pint 

water  and  when  soft  add  the  sugar. 

Sugar  

boiling  water  and  the  grated  rind  and 

UTENSILS: 

juice  of  the  lemons.  Let  stand  until 

Two  Bowls 

Lemon  Squeezer 

cool  and  strain  through  a double  cheese 

Cheese  Cloth 
Grater 

Mold 

cloth  bag  and  turn  into  a mold.  Serve 
plain,  or  with  whipped  cream  and 
strawberries,  bananas  or  other  fresh 
fruit  mixed  carefully  with  the  cream. 
A bunch  of  grapes  and  other  fruits 

Molded  in  the  jelly,  dates,  figs  (chopped)  or  nuts  of  all  kinds,  may  be 
^dded  to  vary  the  dessert.  Orange  baskets  partly  filled  with  lemon  jelly 
and  set  aside  to  harden  and  the  remaining  half  of  the  jelly  colored  with  a 
little  fruit  coloring  molded  and  cut  in  cubes;  again,  make  the  lemon  jelly 
and  flavor  a little  of  it  with  orange  extract  and  color  a delicate  orange  with 
fruit  coloring.  Select  a fancy  open  mold  and  pour  the  orange  jelly  into  the 
lower,  fancy  raised  portion.  Let  set  and  add  the  remaining  jelly.  Turn  out 
and  fill  the  center  with  sliced  oranges  and  cocoanut.  Garnish  the  edge  with 
sections  of  oranges  and  a spoonful  of  whipped  cream  and  fruit  over  the  top 
makes  a desirable  change. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y,  -« 
Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk, 


riii^:  p^:oPLE\s  jiome  recipe  book. 


Recipe  6.  STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Pastry  Flour  2 Cups 

Tablespoonfuls  Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  sift 

BuUer  . Vs  Cup  times,  then  work  in  the 

Baking  Powder  4 Teaspoonfuls  shortening  with  the  mixing  fork.  Beat 

Salt  % Teaspoonful  the  egg  well  and  sufficient  milk  to 

make  the  dough  so  that  it  can  be 

lightly  rolled  on  the  board.  Put  in 

UTENSILS:  round  buttered  tins  and  shape  to  fit 

Bowl  Measuring  Cup  the  pan.  Bake  in  a hot  oven.  Split 

Teaspoon  Bread  Board  the  cake  and  cover  with  strawberries, 

Mixing  Fork  or  Rolling  Pin  which  have  been  well  covered  with 

Pastry  Cutter  powdered  sugar,  standing  in  a warm 

place.  Use  the  pastry  bag  and  tube 

for  arranging  the  whipped  cream  over 
the  top.  A large  biscuit  cutter  may  be  used  and  made  into  individual  short 
cakes  which  are  more  easily  served. 


Recipe  7.  FRUIT  WHIPS. 

Materials.  Measure. 

Raspberries  1V2  Cups 

Powdered  Sugar  . . . ll4  Cups 

White  of  Egg  1 

Lemon  Juice  1 Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Whip  Churn  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Cup 


DIRECTIONS. 


ated  fruits  and  is  a delicious  dessert 
serve  generously  six  or  eight  people. 


Put  all  of  the  ingredients  into  the 
whip  churn  at  once.  Cover  and  whip 
until  stiff  enough  to  stand  alone,  which 
will  take  from  ten  to  twenty  minutes. 
The  colder  everything  is  the  less  time 
it  will  take  to  whip.  This  recipe  will 
answer  for  strawberries,  prunes, 
peaches  or  any  of  the  cooked  evapor- 
alone  or  over  sponge  cake.  This  will 


Recipe  8.  MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING.  • 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Whites  of  Eggs  ...  4 

Gelatine  1 Tablespoonful  -n  - -1  j.-rr  r 

Gran.  Sugar  1 Cup  Beat  the  whites  to  a stiff  froth. 

Vanilla  1 Teaspoonful  Soften  the  gelatine  in  a very  little  cold 

Marshmallows  water,  to  cover,  and  add  one-half  cup 

Colorings  boiling  water.  Add  this  to  the 

UTENSILS:  beaten  whites  stirring  constantly  and 

Egg  Beater  Bowl  then  the  sugar  a little  at  a time.  Flavor. 

Measuring  Cup  Vegetable  Knife  Divide  this  into  three  parts,  color  a 

Mold  or  Baking  Pan  very  delicate  pink,  a pale  green  and 

leave  the  other  white.  Place  a piece  of 

oiled  paper  in  the  bottom  of  the  mold, 
arrange  a few  sliced  marischino  cherries  on  this,  carefully  turn  in  the  white 
mixture,  sprinkle  over  this  chopped  pecan  nuts  and  sliced  cherries.  Then 
the  pink  layer  with  sprinkling  of  nuts  and  cherries  and  last  the  green  mix- 


DESSERTS. 


73 


ture.  Set  in  a cold  place  to  get  very  cold.  Turn  out  on  a dish,  garnish  with 
marshmallows,  cherries  and  whipped  cream.  These  may  be  made  in  in- 
dividual molds  and  small  cups  will  answer  very  well  for  these  molds. 


Recipe  9,  RICE  PUDDING. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Milk  1 Quart 

Salt  % XeLpoonM  wash  the  nee  in  several  waters. 

Sugar  V2  Cup  ' Heat  the  milk  and  sugar  in  a double 

Cinnamon  or  Nut-  boiler,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 

meg  flavoring  — solved.  Add  all  the  remaining  ingred- 

ients and  stir  three  or  .four  times  for 
UTENSILS:  half  an  hour.  Now  turn  into  the  but- 

Measuring  Cup  Double  Boiler  tered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a very 

Measuring  Spoon  Tablespoon  oven  three  hours.  Raisins,  dates 

Pudding  Dish  . desired.  This 

pudding  should  not  be  dry  but  be  of  a 

creamy  consistency. 

All  measuremients  level  unless  otherwise  stated. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes, 

Published  bv  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co..  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  10. 

Materials. 

Seeded  Raisins  

English  Currants. . . 
Blanched  Almonds.. 
Candied  Lemon  Peel 
Candied  Orange  Peel 

Candied  Citron  

Walnut  Meats  

Suet 

Sifted  Bread  Crumbs 

Gran.  Sugar  1 

Cream  (scant)  V2 

Eggs  4 

Cinnamon  1 

Salt  V2 

Cloves  V2 

Nutmeg  

Brandy  1 

Fruit  Juice  or  Wine  1 


PLUM  PUDDING. 

Measure.  ' Weight. 


% lb. 
V4  lb. 
V4  lb. 
^ lb. 
% lb. 
V4  lb. 
% lb. 
V2  lb. 
V2  lb. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Cup 

Cup 


Teaspoonful 

Teaspoonful 

Teaspoonful 


Wine-glass 

Wine-glass 


UTENSILS: 


Food  Chopper 
Egg  Beater 
Teaspoon 
Scales 


Mixing  Bowl 
Molds 

Measuring  Cup 
Steamer 


Chop  half  the  raisins  and  add  to 
them  the  currants,  chopped  walnuts 
and  almonds,  citron,  orange  and  lemon 
peel  shredded  fine.  Now  add  all  the 
remaining  ingredients  except  eggs  and 
cream  and  mix  well  together.  Cover 
closely  and  let  stand  several  days,  at 
least  24  hours.  Add  the  beaten  eggs 
and  cream  and  pack  in  well-buttered 
molds,  cover  tightly  and  steam  six 
hours.  Put  away  in  a cool,  dry  place 
and  when  ready  to  use  steam  at  least 
two  hours,  and  longer  will  do  no  harm. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  ice  cream. 

In  blanching  the  almonds  either 
pour  cold  water  over  them  for  several 
hours  to  remove  the  skins  or  put  over 
the  fire  with  cold  water,  bring  just 
to  the  boiling  point,  remove  the  skins 
and  dry  the  almonds  off  quickly  in  the 
oven. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  5.  Copyright,  1909,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


74 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  11. 


MINCE  MEAT. 


Materials. 

Measure.  Weight. 

Lean  Boiled  Beef... 

3 lbs. 

Suet  

1 1/2  lbs. 

Chopped  Apples  . . . 

3 

Quarts 

Stoned  Raisins 

1 

Quart 

Currants  

2 

Cups 

Citron  

V4lb. 

Molasses  

1 

Cup 

Juice  of  Oranges... 

2 

Juice  of  Lemons. . . . 
Grated  rind  of  one 
of  each  

2 

Nutmeg  

1 

Powdered  Mace  .... 

1 

Teaspoonful 

Salt  

1 

Tablespoonful 

Brown  Sugar  

3 

Cups  or  IV2  Pints 

Cider  

2 

Cups 

Sherry  

Brandy  as  desired  or 
Sweet  Pickle 

1 

Cup 

Vinegar 


UTENSILS: 

Measuring  Cup  Scales 

Grater  Lemon  Squeezer 

Sharp  Knife  Measuring  Spoons 

Jars  Kettle 


DIRECTIONS. 

Chop  the  meat  and  suet  fine  and 
shred  the  citron.  Mix  all  the  dry  in- 
gredients together,  then  the  liquids  (ex- 
cept the  sherry  and  the  brandy).  Mix 
all  well  together  and  bring  slowly  to 
the  boiling  point ; boil  five  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  sherry 
and  brandy  (if  you  use  it)  and  seal  in 
jars.  This  will  make  seven  quart  jars 
and  cost  about  one  dollar  and  a quarter. 

All  measurements  level  unless 
otherwise  stated. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  12.  PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Pumpkin  

pumpkin  without  peel- 

1 ^ TeLpoonful  and  put  into  the  colander;  cover 

Butter  1 Teaspoonful  and  place  in  the  steam  cooker  and 

Cinnamon  1 Teaspoonful  steam  until  tender.  Put  through  the 

Molfsses  1 Lbl?s°p°o"onful  colfnder,  using  the  wooden  masher, 

Sugar  % Cup  and  tor  every  two  and  one-half  cups 

Eggs  2 of  pulp  use  the  above  proportions,  beat- 

Pastry  for  2 pies...  ing  the  eggs  and  melting  the  butter. 

UTENSILS-  pastry, 

-p,  , r.  . * Break  an  egg  in  one  pan,  whirl  it 

Llfnder°'^  Measuring  Cup  around  until  the  white  of  the  egg  has 

Measuring  Spoon  Two  Pie  Pans  covered  the  pastry.  Pour  the  egg  into 

Board,  Rolling  Pin  Flour  Sifter  the  other  pan  and  repeat.  The  egg 

Pastry  Cutter  Potato  Masher  used  in  this  way  and  also 

used  for  the  filling.  Now  fill  full  with 

the  pumpkin  mixture  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes  or  until  done.  Spoonfuls  of  whipped  cream 


DESSERTS. 


piped  around  just  inside  the  crust  and  in  the  center,  adds  both  to  the  looks 
and  to  the  taste. 

Cranberry  jelly  is  fine  poured  over  the  top. 


Recipe  13.  VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Pour  half  the  cream  and  all  of  the 
sugar  into  the  double  boiler  and  place 
over  the  fire,  stir  only  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved  and  the  cream  hot.  Cool 
and  add  the  remaining  cream  and  flav- 
oring and  it  is  ready  to  freeze.  In 
the  meantime  see  that  the  ice  cream 
freezer  is  perfectly  clean,  parts  all 
together  and  ready  for  use.  Place  the 
dasher  in  the  center  of  the  can  and  pour 
in  the  prepared  cream  mixture.  Do  this  always,  except  in  fruit  mixtures; 
they  should  never  go  in  until  the  cream  is  almost  frozen  hard.  Replace 
the  can  top  and  gear  frame;  then  fill  the  space  around  the  can  in  the 
tub  with  shaved  ice  and  salt,  one-third  rock  salt  and  two-thirds  ice,  which 
have  been  well  mixed  together  and  not  put  around  in  layers  as  it  is  often 
done.  Pile  clear  up  over  the  top  and  turn,  not  too  rapidly  but  steadily  until 
the  mixture  begins  to  freeze,  keeping  the  motion  steady  and  even.  When 
frozen  remove  the  dasher,  put  on  the  cover  with  the  cork  and  cheese  cloth 
inserted.  Drain,  repack  with  shaved  ice  very  full,  cover  with  heavy  paper 
or  burlap  and  let  ripen  for  two  hours.  To  make  strawberry  ice  cream  add 
another  cup  of  sugar,  quart  of  berries  pressed  through  the  colander  and  add 
as  directed  above. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Cream  1 Quart 

Gran.  Sugar  1 Cup 

Vanilla  2 Teapsoonfuls 


UTENSILS: 

Ice  Cream  Freezer  Cork  and  piece  of 
Double  Boiler  Cheese  Cloth 

Measuring  Cup  Ice  Chipper 
Measuring  Spoon 


Recipe  14.  MAPLE  ICE  CREAM. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Eggs  

Maple  Syrup 

Milk  

Cream  

UTENSILS: 

Ice  Cream  Freezer  Wooden  Spoon 
Measuring  Cup  Egg  Beater 


DIRECTIONS. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  until 
very  light ; add  the  hot  maple  syrup 
and  the  milk,  stir  and  cook  over  the 
hot  water  until  the  mixture  thickens. 
Then  pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  cool.  When 
cold  add  the  cream,  pour  Jnto  a freezer 
and  freeze.  A cup  of  English  walnuts 
or  pecans  broken  fine  are  a nice  change. 


% Cup 
V2  Cup 
1V2  Cups 


T() 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  15. 

LEMON  CREi 

Materials. 

Measure. 

Sugar  

. . iVj  Cups 

Lemons  

Milk  

. . 2 Cups 

Cream  

. . 2 Cups 

Whites  of  Eggs  . . 

2 

Pul.  Sugar 

. . 2 Tablespoonfuls 

UTENSILS: 

Tablespoon 

Spatula 

Double  Boiler 

Measuring  Spoon 

Recipe  16. 

MAPLE 

Materials. 

Measure. 

Hot  Maple  Syrup. 

. . 1 Cup 

Double  Cream  . . . 

. . 1 Pint 

Eggs  

..  4 

UTENSILS: 

Double  Boiler 

Bowl 

Egg  Beater 

Cream  Whip 

Mold 

Ice  Chipper 

Pail 

Ice 

DIRECTIONS. 

Put  the  milk  and  sugar  into  the 
double  boiler  and  stir  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved  and  heated.  Cool  and  add 
the  cream  and  gradually  the  lemon 
juice.  Turn  into  the  freezer  and  freeze, 
turning  slowly  to  have  it  fine  grained. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff, 
adding  sugar.  Pour  this  into  the 
freezer,  turn  the  dasher  rapidly  for  a 
few  minutes,  re-pack  and  set  aside  to 
ripen. 


Salt 


DIRECTIONS. 

Heat  the  syrup  in  the  double  boiler. 
Beat  the  eggs  until  well  mixed  and 
slowly  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them. 
Put  back  over  the  fire  into  the  double 
boiler  and  cook  until  the  mixture  thick- 
ens, stirring  carefully.  Cool  and  add 
the  cream  which  has  been  beaten  stiff, 
fold  this  in  gently  but  thoroughly. 
Pour  this  into  a mold  and  pack  as  pre- 
viously directed,  in  ice  and  salt,  being 
sure  to  bind  the  cover  with  a strip  of  muslin  dipped  in  butter  or  paraffine. 
Let  stand  three  hours.  Pineapple,  oranges,  raspberries,  strawberries,  coffee 
and  chocolate  all  may  be  used  in  making  these  delicious  parfaits  or  mousse, 
using  a tablespoon  of  gelatine  to  a quart  of  cream  and  pulp  from  a box  of 
berries. 

All  measurements  level  unless  otherwise  stated. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  2.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  17.  BAKED  PEACHES  AND  PEARS. 

Baked  peaches  are  excellent  either  for  breakfast  or  as  a dessert  at  lunch 
or  dinner.  Select  good  sized  freestones,  pare,  cut  them  in  halves  and  remove 
the  stones.  Place  a single  layer  in  a baking  dish,  hollow  side  uppermost.  Into 
each  half  put  half  a teaspoon  of  butter  and  the  same  amount  of  sugar,  or  a 
little  more,  if  the  family  like  sweets.  Sprinkle  nutmeg  generously  over  the 
whole,  and  bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes;  when  soft  the  peaches  are  done. 
Serve  hot. 


DESSERTS. 


77 


Recipe  18.  PEACH  TART. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Heavy  Cream 1 Pint 

Sugar  V2  Cup  Bake  a sponge  cake  in  a round  or 

Vanilla  1 Teaspoonful  square  pan.  Remove  the  center  of  the 

Lemon  Juice 1 Tablespoonful  cake,  leaving  a rim  about  an  inch  wide 

Peaches  and  also  a wall  and  bottom  about  an 

inch  thick.  Whip  the  cream,  sugar 
UTENSILS:  and  flavoring  until  stiff  and  solid. 

Whip  Churn  Cake  Pan  Fill  the  cake  and  set  in  a cool  place. 

Sharp  Knife  When  ready  to  serve  garnish  with 

sliced  peaches  and  finely  chopped  pis- 
tachio nuts. 


GRAHAM  PUDDING. 


Recipe  19. 

Materials.  Measure. 

Graham  Flour 1V2  Cups 

Porto  Rico  Molasses  V2  Cup 

Milk  V2  Cup 

Butter  •. . . V4.  Cup 

Egg  1 

Soda  V2  Teaspoonful 

Salt  V2  Teaspoonful 

Seeded  Raisins  ....  1 Teaspoonful 

Cinnamon  V2  Teaspoonful 

Cloves  % Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Measuring  Cup  Measuring  Spoon 

Egg  Beater  Bowls 

Steamer 


DIRECTIONS. 

Soften  the  butter  but  do  not  melt. 
Beat  until  creamy  and  add  molasses, 
milk,  well-beaten  egg  and  all  dry  in- 
gredients well  mixed  and  sifted  and  the 
raisins  cut  in  two.  Turn  into  a well- 
buttered  mold,  cover  and  steam  two 
and  one-half  hours. 

Serve  hot  with  lemon  sauce. 


MARLBORO  TARTS. 


Recipe  20. 

Materials.  Measure. 

Tart  Apples  6 

Sugar V2  Cup 

Melted  Butter V2  Cup 

Juice  and  Rind  of 

Lemon  

Milk 1/2  Cup 

Eggs  2 

Nutmeg  

UTENSILS: 

Measuring  Cup  Sieve 

Grater  Lemon  Squeezer 

Pie  Pan 


DIRECTIONS. 

Quarter  and  stew  the  apples,  put 
through  the  sieve  and  to  each  cupful 
of  this  pulp  use  the  proportions  given 
of  all  seasoning.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  stiff  and  add  at  the  last  mo- 
ment. Have  a pie  pan  lined  with  paste 
and  fill  this  with  the  apple  mixture. 
Bake  in  a moderately  quick  oven  about 
twenty-five  minutes. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  21.  LEMON  CHEESE  CAKES. 


Materials,  Measure. 

Cottage  Cheese  ....  1%  Cups 

Sugar Va  Cup 

Cream  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Grated  Rind  and 
Juice  of  Lemon. . . 1 

Eggs  3 

Currants  and  Sliced 

Citron  V2  Cup 

Vanilla  1 Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Potato  Ricer  Measuring  Cup 

Tablespoon  Teaspoon 

Lemon  Squeezer 


DIRECTIONS. 

Press  the  cheese  through  the  po- 
tato ricer.  Add  all  the  ingredients  to 
it,  with  the  eggs  beaten  very  light. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  line  patty  pans 
with  rich  pastry  and  fill  with  the  mix- 
ture. Bake  about  15  minutes  or  until 
the  pastry  is  well  baked  and  the  mix- 
ture is  thickened.  Or  the  fruit  may  be 
omitted  and  the  patties  covered  with 
Bar  de  Due  currants. 


Recipe  22. 


PUMPKIN  PIE. 


Materials. 

Measure. 

Pumpkin  . . . , 

1V2  Cups 

Sugar  

Cinnamon  . . 

Ginger  

Salt 

V2  Teaspoonful 

Eggs  

2 

Milk  

Cream  

Plain  Paste  , 

UTENSILS: 

Pastry  Board 

Measuring  Cup 

Rolling  Pin 

Egg  Beater 

Kettle 

Measuring  Spoon 

Coarse  Sieve 
Pie  Pan 

Mixing  Bowl 

DIRECTIONS. 

Cook  the  pumpkin  until  dry  and 
put  through  a coarse  sieve.  Then  add 
the  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  beat- 
ing the  eggs  and  adding  last.  Line  a 
deep  pie  pan  with  good  rich  paste  and 
fill  with  the  pumpkin  and  bake  in  rather 
hot  oven.  Wrap  the  edge  of  pastry 
with  wet  cloth  to  keep  from  burning 
the  edges 


Recipe  23.  APPLE  RICE  PUDDING. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Rice  V2  Cup 

Sugar  V2  Cup 

Milk  3 Cups 

Eggs  3 

Vanilla  V2  Teaspoonful 

Tart  Apples  6 

Jelly  


UTENSILS: 

Apple  Corer  Baking  Pan 

Measuring  Cup  Teaspoon 

Sauce  Pan  Egg  Beater 


with  jelly  and  the  whites  whipped 
beaten  with  them  and  piled  over  the 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  the  rice  well  and  add  slowly 
to  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
hard  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and 
blanch  with  cold  water.  Mix  the  milk, 
sugar  and  beaten  yolks  with  flavoring. 
Wipe  the  apples  and  core,  being  care- 
ful not  to  go  clear  through.  Arrange 
in  a slightly  buttered  baking  dish  and 
pour  the  rice  mixture  all  around  the 
apples.  Bake  until  the  pudding  is  set 
and  the  apples  are  done  in  not  too  hot 
an  oven.  When  cold  fill  the  apples 
stiff  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
top.  Serve  with  cream. 


DESSERTS. 


Recipe  24.  APPLE  TAPIOCA. 


Materials. 

Instantaneous  Tap- 
ioca   V2 

Boiling  Water  3 

Sugar  V2 

Lemon  Juice 

Salt  

Sour  Apples  5 

Nutmeg  

UTENSILS: 

Bowl  Double  BoUer 

Apple  Corer  Baking  Dish 

Vegetable  Knife  Wooden  Spoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Measure  the  tapioca  and  put  into 
the  bowl  with  sufficient  cold  water  to 
cover;  it  will  soften  in  a minute.  Put 
into  the  double  boiler,  add  boiling 
water  and  salt,  stir  and  cook  until 
clear.  Core  and  pare  the  apples,  roll- 
ing them  in  lemon  juice.  Set  them  in 
a buttered  baking  dish,  fill  the  centers 
with  sugar,  a small  piece  of  butter  and 
a little  nutmeg.  Pour  the  tapioca  over 
the  whole  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven 
until  the  apples  are  tender.  Serve  with 
sugar  and  cream. 


Measure. 

Cup 

Cups 

Cup 

Teaspoonful 


Recipe  25. 


PRUNE  FLUFF. 


Materials. 

r.arge  Prunes  . . 
Whites  of  Eggs 
Powdered  Sugar 
Lemon  Juice  .. 


Measure. 


Weight. 

1/2  lb. 


DIRECTIONS. 


. 4 


% Cup 

1 Tablespoonful 


Wash  and  soak  the  prunes  over 
night  in  cold  water.  The  next  morn- 
ing put  them  into  the  double  boiler 
over  the  fire  and  cook  very  slowly. 
When  done  remove  the  prunes  and 
boil  the  juice  down  to  one-half  cupful. 
Pit  the  prunes,  add  the  juice  and  rub  all 
• through  a colander.  Have  the  whip 

churn  on  ice  and  the  eggs  cold.  Put 
all  the  ingredients  into  the  churn  and  whip  until  stiff;  this  will  take  from 
ten  to  twenty  minutes.  Serve  very  cold  in  tall  glasses.  Half  apricots  and 
half  prunes  give  a nice  flavored  dessert.  Serve  sponge  cake  with  this. 


UTENSILS: 

Double  Boiler  Bowl 

Whip  Churn  or  Colander 

Egg  Beater 


Recipe  26.  APPLE  OR  FRUIT  CUPS. 

Sift  together  one  pint  of  flour,  a half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  one  egg,  add  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  stir  into  the  dry  mixture,  adding  more  milk  as 
necessary  to  make  a thick  batter.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter 
and  beat  hard.  Butter  some  baking  cups  and  put  in  each  a spoonful  of  the 
batter.  Add  a quarter  of  a tart  apple,  and  more  batter  to  cover  and  two- 
thirds  fill  the  cup.  Steam  or  bake  and  serve  with  a hard  sauce.  Any  kind  of 
fresh  fruit  may  be  used  instead  of  the  apple. 


80 


TUK  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 

FIG  PUDDING. 


Recipe  27. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Figs  % lb. 

White  Grated  Bread 

Crumbs  1 Cup 

Brown  Sugar  1 Cup 

Chopped  Suet 1 Cup 

Milk  1 Cup 

Cinnamon  1 Teaspoonful 

Cloves  % Teaspoonful 

Salt  14  Teaspoonful 

Well-Beaten  Eggs..  2 

UTENSILS: 

Steamer  Food  Chopper 

Grater  Egg  Beater 

Measuring  Cup  Mold  or  Pan 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  the  figs  and  suet  through  the 
food  chopper  and  grate  the  white  part 
of  a stale  loaf  of  bread  until  you  have 
the  given  amount.  Mix  all  the  ingred- 
ients with  these,  the  well-beaten  eggs 
last.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  a well- 
buttered  mold  or  pan  and  steam  for 
three  hours.  Serve  hot  with  lemon 
sauce. 


Recipe  28. 


JELLIBD  APRICOTS. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Evaporated  Apricots  V2  lb. 

Gran.  Sugar  V2  Teaspoonful 

Cream  

UTENSILS: 

Bowl  Double  Boiler 

Measuring  Cup  Individual  Molds 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  the  apricots  and  soak  over 
night  in  cold  water.  The  next  morning 
turn  them  into  the  double  boiler  and 
cook  over  a very  slow  fire  until  quite 
tender  but  so  they  will  keep  their 
shape.  Measure  the  syrup  and  for  each 
cupful  use  the  given  amount  of  gela- 
tine softened  in  a little  cold  water.  Re- 
heat the  syrup,  add  the  gelatine  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Wet  the  molds, 
put  an  apricot  in  the  bottom  of  each  one  and  pour  over  the  syrup.  Set 
in  a cold  place  to  harden.  Turn  out  and  serve  with  cream.  Any  evaporated 
fruit  will  answer  for  this  recipe. 


BEVERAGES. 

(Including  Coffee,  Tea,  Chocolate,  Cocoa,  Lemonades,  Ginger  Ale,  Fruit 
Syrups,  Punch  and  Home-Made  Wines.) 


Simple  living  and  high  thinking  have  the  approval  of  learned  men  and  women.” 

Tea,  coffee,  chocolate  or  cocoa  are  the  beverages  most  indulged  in,  in  the 
average  home,  but  a few  additions  have  been  made  under  this  heading.  Water 
is  presumably  the  true  beverage;  but  with  all  the  numerous  “Waters”  to 
drink,  one  is  not  quite  sure  whether  they  have  the  right  one,  and  if  they  have 
one  are  not  quite  sure  but  they  should  have  chosen  the  other.  But  good 


BEVERAGES. 


81 


water  we  must  drink,  and  plenty  of  it,  if  we  wish  to  keep  in  a good  healthy 
condition. 

Tea  and  coffee  should  be  taken  in  moderation  and  coffee  must  always 
be  of  the  best,  and  made  most  carefully.  Never  allow  the  coffee  to  be  pul- 
verized as  that  means  “ burnt  (through  grinding)  coffee,  but  finely  ground, 
and  for  large  quantities  one-half  pound  to  four  quarts  of  water. 

A cup  of  chocolate  or  cocoa  well  made  is  a wholesome  food.  Always 
make  in  a double  boiler,  and  it  requires  cooking.  Not  actively  boiling,  but 
with  the  steady  water  heat  underneath  should  be  cooked  sufficiently  to  take 
away  that  “ raw  taste  ” so  often  found  in  a cup  of  chocolate  in  public  places. 

Tea  is  usually  poor,  not  only  on  account  of  the  indifference  with  which 
people  usually  buy  this  article,  but  the  greater  indifference  with  which  it  is 
made.  As  with  coffee,  the  water  should  be  freshly  boiled  and  when  possible 
use  a tea  ball  or  strainer;  then  by  dipping  up  and  down  you  can  have  just  the 
desired  strength.  But  this  is  not  always  convenient,  so  use  a hot  earthen  pot 
and  boiling  water,  let  stand  two  or  three  minutes  and  with  a good  tea  the  in- 
fusion is  delicate  and  not  unwholesome  when  taken  in  moderation. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawnian  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co..  Rochester,  N,  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  1.  HOW  TO  MAKE  COFFEE. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Coffee  4 Tablespoonfuls 

A great  deal  both  of  interest  and  in- 

Boiling  Water".;:'.;  3 Cups  formation  might  be  written  about  cof- 

fee,  but  it  is  not  wise  to  take  it  up  here. 
TTT'T7MQTTQ.  Always  buy  the  best  cofifee  that  can 

1 1 ^ rc  -o’  be  bought,  and  that  does  not  always 

SspooT"  Measuring  Cup  highest  priced.  Infonn^your- 

self  so  as  to  know  good  coffee.  Uo  not 

always  blame  the  grocer  if  your  coffee 

is  poor;  sometimes  the  poor  coffee  is 
the  result  of  a not  perfectly  clean  coffee  pot.  Once  a week  put  a teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  soda  into  the  pot,  partly  fill  it  with  water  and  boil  for  at  least 
ten  minutes.  Then  wash  thoroughly  and  you  will  find  it  sweet  and  clean. 
So  there  are  three  necessaries  for  good  coffee,  first  an  enamel  or  granite  pot 
kept  perfectly  clean,  or  buy  a cheaper  coffee  pot  (not  tin,  however)  and  have 
a new  one  oftener.  Second,  a good  blending  of  the  best  Mocha  and  Java 
coffee ; and  third,  freshly  boiled  water.  Scald  the  pot,  grind  the  coffee  about 
as  fine  as  coarse  granulated  sugar.  Beat  the  egg  in  the  cold  water,  add  the 
coffee  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  the  coffee  pot  and  add  one  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  bring  quickly  to  the  boiling  point.  Now  this  must  be  done  always, 
or  the  coffee  is  ruined.  Set  back  on  the  stove  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  Aot 
boiling,  and  add  the  remaining  two  cups  of  boiling  water.  Let  stand  two  or 
three  minutes,  settle  with  a very  little  cold  water  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  AHce  Gitchell  Kirk. 

2—6 


TH!<:  home  eectpe  p.ook. 

DRIP  COFFEE. 


S‘? 


Recipe  2, 

Materials.  ,,,  ^ , DIRECTIONS. 

Coffee  2 1 ablespoonfuls 

There  are  so  many  percolators  on 
the  market  that  one  is  at  a loss  to 
know  which  one  to  choose.  Select  one 
with  as  few  separate  parts  as  possible, 
and  easy  to  keep  clean.  It  is  not  wise 
to  choose  those  having  washable  bags. 
When  you  have  wisely  made  your  se- 
lection, do  not  take  it  home  and  set  it  on  the  shelf,  but  use  it,  as  coffee  made 
in  this  manner  is  for  most  people  perfectly  harmless.  Put  the  freshly  boiled 
water  into  the  lower  part  of  the  coffee  pot,  and  the  coffee  ground  as 
fine  as  it  can  be  ground  without  pulverizing  it,  into  the  upper  section.  Put 
on  the  cover  and  place  over  the  fire.  In  from  five  to  eight  minutes  you  will 
have  a most  delicious  coffee.  Tea  can  be  made  in  the  same  manner.  These 
drip  coffee  pots  or  percolators  can  be  purchased  to  have  the  coffee  made  in 
the  kitchen  or  with  alcohol  lamps  for  table  use. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Boiling  Water  4 Cups 


UTENSILS: 

Drip  Coffee  Pot  Tablespoon 
Measuring  Cup 


Recipe  3.  CHOCOLATE. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Chocolate 2 oz. 

Milk^^^^^  ^ 1 Pint  chocolate  into  the  double 

Sugar 3 Tablespoonfuls  boiler  and  add  the  hot  water,  stirring 

^ Teaspoonful  until  dissolved  and  hot.  Then  add  the 

UTENSILS*  which  has  been  heated,  beat  well 

Double  Boiler  Measuring  Cup  the  water  boils  well  underneath. 

Teaspoon  Tablespoon  Add  the  sugar  and  beat  again.  Re- 

Egg  Beater  move  from  the  fire,  flavor,  and  serve  in 

heated  cups  with  whipped  cream.  Be 

sure  the  chocolate  is  cooked  and  does 
not  have  a raw  taste  as  this  is  ruinous 
to  good  chocolate.  Iced  cocoa  is  very  nice.  Prepare  the  cocoa  a Ifftle 
stronger  than  usual  and  when  cool  put  it  on  the  ice  and  chill.  Serve  with 
shaved  ice  and  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  V. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


BEVERAGES. 


83 


Recipe  4.  COCOA. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Cocoa  4 Teaspoonfuls 

Sugar  6 Teaspoonfuls  Mix  the  cocoa  and  sugar  well  to- 

Boiling  Water  % Pint  gether  in  the  double  boiler,  and  add 

Milk  iV2  Pints  the  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time 

Pinch  of  Salt  until  it  reaches  the  boiling  point.  Add 

Vanilla  1 Teaspoonful  the  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  very 

hot ; now  whip  with  a Dover  egg 
UTENSILS:  beater  until  light  and  frothy.  Cover 

Measuring  Cup  Double  Boiler  for  five  minutes.  Flavor  and  serve 

Teaspoon  Egg  Beater  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  5.  GINGER  ALE. 

Ginger  ale  is  the  foundation  of  many  agreeable  drinks  and  fruit  punches, 
since  almost  all  fruits  and  flavors  seem  to  harmonize  well  with  the  ginger  and 
lemon  of  which  it  is  made.  In  two  gallons  of  water  dissolve  three  pounds  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  two  ounces  of 
ground  ginger,  previously  dissolved  in  water.  Let  the  mixture  come  to  a 
boil,  skim  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Now  add  the  juice  of  four  large  lemons,  one- 
fourth  a yeast  cake  (compressed)  previously  dissolved  in  a little  water,  and 
stir  the  mixture  thoroughly.  Let  stand  for  a few  minutes,  and  then  strain 
through  a cheese  cloth  bag,  and  pour  into  bottles.  Set  away  in  a cool  dark 
place,  and  in  forty-eight  hours,  the  ginger  ale  will  be  ready  to  drink.  An 
acid  flavor  may  be  given  to  this  ale  by  squeezing  the  juice  of  half  a lemon 
into  a tumbler,  and  then  filling  the  glass  with  the  ale. 


Recipe  6.  FRUIT  SYRUPS. 

For  a change  in  punches  try  rhubarb,  raspberry,  currant,  pineapple,  or 
strawberry-ade.  These,  as  also  lemonade,  are  better  if  sugar  syrup  rather 
than  crude  sugar  be  used  for  sweetening,  but  on  no  account  should  the 
fruit  juice  be  cooked.  Add  this  when  the  syrup  has  become  cold.  A little 
lemon  juice  to  give  “ point  ” to  the  particular  fruit  flavor  that  is  used  is  essen- 
tial in  all  beverages  of  this  class. 

Remember  to  use  the  sweet  element  sparingly  even  if  the  beverage  is  to 
be  used  half  frozen ; for  sugar  is  a fuel  food  and  in  consequence  is  not  “ in 
order  ” during  the  heated  term.  Half  a cup  of  sugar  is  enough  for  un- 
frozen mixtures ; two-thirds  of  a cup  may  be  required  when  the  beverage, 
is  to  be  frozen.  But,  while  stinting  on  the  sugar  be  generous  with 
the  fruit  juice,  and  if  the  quantity  at  hand  of  one  variey  be  scanty,  add  the 
juice  of  some  other  fruit  and  call  the  concoction  a punch. 


S4 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe.  7. 

Materials.  Measure, 

Lemon  Juice 1 Quart 

Gran.  Sugar 

Water  1 Quart 

Whites  of  Eggs  ....  2 


LEMON  SYRUP. 

Weight. 

6 lbs. 


DIRECTIONS. 


UTENSILS: 

Lemon  Squeezer  Puree  Sieve 
Porcelain  lined 
Kettle 

Wooden  Spoon 


Egg  Beater 
Skimmer 


Roll  the  lemons  hard  under  your 
hand  to  soften  them  and  squeeze  out 
every  bit  of  juice.  Put  the  sugar  into 
a porcelain  lined  kettle.  Beat  the  eggs 
to  a stiff  froth,  mix  them  with  the 
water  and  add  to  the  sugar.  Stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Place  the  kettle 
over  the  fire  and  boil  and  skim  until 
there  is  no  scum  arising  to  the  surface. 

Add  the  lemon  juice  to  the  boiling 
syrup,  cover  and  boil  gently  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  when 
cool  fill  bottles  which  have  been  rinsed  with  alcohol.  Use  bottles  with 
patent  stoppers.  This  syrup  will  keep  well  the  entire  year,  but  should  be 
made  in  the  spring  when  lemons  are  cheap  and  plentiful.  Oranges  may  be 
used  in  the  same  manner  as  above,  using  two  quarts  of  juice  and  the  same 
ingredients.  Pineapples,  cherries,  grapes,  currants,  raspberries  and  straw- 
berries all  make  syrups  which  make  delicious  drinks,  sauces,  and  ice  creams 
when  these  fruits  are  out  of  season.  Be  careful  of  too  much  boiling  as  it 
destroys  the  flavor  and  color  of  the  syrup.  Use  only  granite  or  porcelain 
lined  kettles  and  stir  with  wooden  spoon. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  8.  FRUIT  PUNCH. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

Ceylon  or  English 

Breakfast  Tea  ...  1 oz.  Put  the  tea  into  the  stew  pan  and 

Oranges  2 cover,  with  a quart  of  boiling  water; 

Lemons  6 cover  the  pan  for  twenty  minutes,  and 

Sugar  4 Cups  strain.  Grate  the  yellow  rinds  from 

Grated  Pineapple  .. . 1 Pint  half  the  lemons  and  oranges  adding 

Vanilla  and  Almond  this  to  the  sugar  and  mixing  all  with 

Extract  1 Teaspoonful  the  infusion.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is 

Bananas  2 dissolved,  place  over  the  fire  and  bring 

Ginger  Ale  1 Pint  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  five 

Water  3 Quarts  minutes.  Strain  and  cool.  Add  the 

Re  juice  of  the  lemon  and  oranges  and  all 

the  other  ingredients.  Turn  this  into 
UTENSILS:  the  punch  bowl  with  a nice  block  of  ice 

Stew  Pan  Grater  and  serve.  Fresh  berries  may  be  added 

Measuring  Cup  Lemon  Squeezer  to  this  or  grape  juice  may  be  used  in- 

Punch  Bowl  stead  of  ginger  ale. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 


Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


BEVERAGES. 


85 


MINT  PUNCH. 


Recipe  9. 

Materials.  Measure,  Weight. 

Fresh  Mint  Sprigs..  1 Dozen 

Shaved  Ice  1 Cup 

Sugar  Cup 

Lemon  Juice  or 

Pure  Cider  Vinegar  2 Tablespoonfuls 
Raspberry  Syrup  ...  1 Cup 

Water  1 Quart 

UTENSILS: 

Tablespoon  Measuring  Cup 

Punch  Bowl  Shaker 

Ice  Shaver  Lemon  Squeezer 

Chopping  Bowl  and  Knife 


DIRECTIONS. 

Chop  the  mint  fine,  add  to  the  ice 
and  sugar.  Put  all  into  a shaker  and 
shake  hard  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved ; 
pour  into  a punch  bowl,  add  the  other 
ingredients  and  serve  very  cold. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  10. 

Materials. 

Shaved  Ice  % Glass 

Water  V4  Glass 

Lemon  Syrup  or  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Lemon  % 

Sugar  2 Teaspoonfuls 

Creme  de  Menthe 

Cherry  1 

Creme  de  Menthe...  1 Teaspoonful 

Mint  2 Sprigs 

UTENSILS: 

Ice  Shaver  Straws 

Lemon  Squeezer  Tall  Glasses 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  the  shaved  ice  into  the  glass 
and  add  the  lemon  syrup  or  the  sugar 
dissolved  in  the  lemon  juice.  Stir  well, 
then  add  the  remaining  ingredients, 
decorating  with  sprigs  of  mint  stand- 
ing upright  in  the  glass,  and  three 
straws.  This  is  not  only  very  refresh- 
ing but  attractive  as  well. 


MINT  LEMONADE. 

Measure. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


LEMONADE. 

DIRECTIONS. 


Recipe  11.  APPLE 

Materials.  Measure. 

Tart  Apples  6 

Lemons  3 

Stick  Cinnamon  ....  % 

Sugar 4 Cups 

Bay  Leaves 2 

Raisins  1 Cup 

Oranges  1 

UTENSILS: 

Porcelain  Kettle  Paring  Knife 

Grater  Measure 

Jelly  Bag  Ice  Shaver 


Mash,  quarter  and  core  the  apples ; 
put  them  into  the  kettle  with  raisins, 
bay  leaves  and  cinnamon.  Add  two 
quarts  of  water  and  bring  to  the  boil- 
ing point ; add  two  more  quarts  of 
cold  water  in  which  the  sugar  and 
grated  rind  from  the  lemons  and 
oranges  have  been  dissolved.  Simmer 
slowly  half  an  hour,  strain  and  when 
cool  and  ready  to  serve  add  the  juice 
of  the  lemons  and  oranges.  Set  on  ice 
until  very  cold.  Put  a little  shaved 
ice  into  the  sherbet  cups,  fill  with  the 
cold  lemonade  and  serve. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


SG 


Recipe  12.  ELDERBERRY  WINE. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Pick  the  elderberries  when  dead 
ripe  and  extract  the  juice  with  a fruit 
press.  Into  the  keg  put  the  above 
amount  of  juice  dissolved  in  water. 
Be  sure  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved before  putting  it  into  the  keg. 
Fill  the  remaining  space  with  water. 
Rack  off  in  February  and  wash  keg 
in  which  you  can  replace  the  clear  wine  or  it  can  be  bottled.  This  makes 
a heavy  sweet  wine  on  the  order  of  port.  To  make  it  more  tart  and  without 
so  much  body  use  four  quarts  of  juice  and  fourteen  pounds  of  sugar.  The 
first  wine  is  dark  colored  while  the  latter  is  lighter  in  color.  To  make  the 
wine  from  the  elderberry  blossoms  pick  when  dead  ripe  and  falling  from 
the  bush ; pick  from  the  stems  and  to  one  quart  of  blossoms  add  the  juice 
of  two  lemons,  four  pounds  of  sugar  and  pour  over  all  one  gallon  of  boiling 
water.  Let  cool  and  when  lukewarm  add  one  half  yeast  cake  to  five  gallons 
of  wine  and  let  ferment  three  days.  Put  into  a-  keg,  leave  bung  out,  and  let 
ferment  for  a month  or  six  weeks.  When  through  with  fermentation  it  can 
be  racked  off  and  bottled. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Elderberry  Juice  ...  5 Quarts 

Sugar 15  lbs. 

Water  

UTENSILS: 

Fruit  Press  Five-Gallon  Keg 

Quart  Measure  Seals 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY. 

(Including  Rarebits,  Creamed  Oysters,  Etc.) 


“The  social  meal  in  the  home  is  an  ideal  preparation  for  good  digestion.” 

While  the  chafing  dish  started  the  fashion,  it  has  quickly  grown  to 
be  one  of  the  very  best  of  friends.  There  are  many  homes  where  you  find  it, 
and  nowhere  is  it  more  serviceable  or  welcome  than  at  the  Sunday  night 
supper. 

All  who  possess  this  most  useful  dish  are  on  the  lookout  for  new  exploits 
in  the  chafing  dish  line.  Always  making  fresh  and  astonishing  creations.  In 
the  recipes  here  given  they  may  represent  to  many  merely  old  friends  with 
new  faces,  or  new  names,  or  perhaps  the  old  dress  with  additional  frills,  which 
add  not  only  to  the  attractiveness  of  the  dish  but  the  taste  as  well.  There  are 
few  things  that  cannot  be  done  in  the  chafing  dish  if  one  knows  how.  The 
greatest  aid  to  successful  results  is  having  everything  in  readiness  for  work. 
Arrange  all  material  conveniently  on  either  side  of  dish;  milk  and  cream  and 
all  liquids,  in  fact,  in  attractive  pitchers.  Butter  molded  in  balls  measuring 
one  tablespoonful.  Matches  in  a little  tray,  etc.  Chafing  dish  on  a tray. 
Teaspoon  and  tablespoon  for  measuring  and  all  seasonings  arranged  on  a 
small  trajG  It  is  not  necessary  to  tell  how  these  things  should  be  arranged. 


CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY. 


87 


but  neatly  and  in  order  and  perfectly  convenient.  Give  thought  and  care  to 
this  as  it  saves  time  and  confusion. 

See  that  the  lamp  is  in  perfect  working  order  and  filled. 

If  all  the  preparations  are  carefully  made,  each  or  any  dish  will  be 
quickly  and  easily  cooked. 

For  a quick  breakfast  and  where  you  do  not  have  access  to  gas,  its  worth 
cannot  be  estimated.  The  chafing  dish  has  come  to  stay. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  .f dice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  1.  CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Oysters  1 Pint 

F1ou7 . I Tablespoonfuls  the  butter  into  the  chafing  dish 

Cream  1 Pint  and  when  heated  to  be  just  cream}', 

Celery  Salt V2  Teaspoonful  add  the  flour;  blend  well  together  and 

Da^L’of*Nepaui”“  Teaspoonful  smooth,  gradually  add  the  cream. 

Pepper Stirring  constantly  until  the  sauce  is 

smooth.  Add  the  oysters  which  have 
TT'TT?MCTTC.  riuscd,  Small  particles  of 

r-u  c u shell  removed  and  drained.  Bring  to 

Chafing  D,sh  Large  Spoon  ^ 

very  nice  change  may  be  had  by  using 

half  the  given  amount  of  cream  and 
substitute  one-half  cup  of  sherry,  one  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  one  stalk  of  celery  cut  very  fine  and  cooked  slightly  in  the  butter. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  2.  OYSTERS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Oysters  1 Pint 

Mushrooms  1 Can 

Butter 1 Large  Tablesp’l 

Flour  1 Large  Tablesp’l 

Cream  1 Cup 

Yolks  of  Eggs  ....  3 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 


Dash  of  Paprika  . . . 

UTENSILS: 

Chafing  Dish  Tablespoon 

Toast  Measuring  Cup 

Small  Egg  Beater 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card 
Published  by  Yawman  & ] 
Copyright,  1906,  by 


DIRECTIONS. 

Put  the  butter  into  the  chafing 
dish;  when  sli§^itly  melted  add  the 
flour  and  stir  until  well  blended ; now 
pour  in  the  cream  and  one-half  cup 
of  the  liquor  from  the  mushrooms.  Stir 
until  smooth.  Add  the  oysters  and  the 
small  mushrooms  whole  or  sliced. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  slowly.  Remove  at 
once  from  the  fire,  season  and  serve 
on  squares  of  toast. 

index  Cooking  Recipes. 

)rbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


8R  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 

Recipe  3.  WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 

American  Cheese, 

yellow  1 lb.  Grate  the  cheese  or  cut  it  very  fine. 

Butter  1 Tablespoonful  Rub  the  pan  with  the  garlic.  Mix  all 

Catsup ^ . 1 Tablespoonful  the  seasonings  with  the  cheese.  Heat 

Ale  or  Beer H Cup  the  beer  and  when  boiling  hot  add 

Salt % Teaspoonful  the  cheese  mixture  and  stir  rapidly  and 

Horseradish 1 Teaspoonful  constantly  until  smooth  and  creamy. 

Clove  of  Garlic  1 Beat  very  hard  at  the  last  and  serve 

Cayenne  Pepper  ...  at  once  on  squares  of  toast. 

Worcestershire  Sauce  Be  very  sure  the  plates  are  hot,  also 

the  toast,  and  ready  the  instant  the 
rarebit  is  done.  The  success  of  this 
UTENSILS:  depends  largely  upon  the  cheese. 

Chafing  Dish  Grater  Nothing  is  better  than  a good  soft  yel- 

Tablespoon  Teaspoon  low  New  York  cheese. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 


Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  4.  SHRIMP  WIGGLE. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Shrimps  1 Cup 

Peas  1 Cup 

Paprika  Vs  Teaspoonful 

Flour  1 Large  Tab’sp'l 

Milk  lV2  Cups 

Butter  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

Chopped  Parsley  ...  1 Teaspoonful 

Extract  of  Beef ¥2  Teaspoonful 


DIRECTIONS. 

Prepare  the  shrimps  by  rinsing, 
draining,  and  cutting  or  breaking  in 
small  pieces.  Soften  the  butter  in  the 
chafing  dish,  mixing  the  flour  well  with 
it;  then  pour  on  gradually  the  milk 
and  as  soon  as  the  sauce  thickens  add 


Chafing  Dish 
Tablespoon 


UTENSILS: 

Teaspoon 


the  shrimps  and  peas  with  all  the  sea- 
sonings. Bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  serve. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  5.  SHRIMPS  A LA  POULETTE. 

Shrim“!" 1 DIRECTIONS. 

Butter  1 Tablespoonful  , r. 

Flour . 1 Tablespoonful  Mix  the  butter  and  flour  well  to- 

Cream  1 Cup  gether  in  the  chafing  dish.  Add  the 

YoWs  of  E s Teaspoonful  cream  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time. 

Lemon  Juic?^ ; 1 Tablespoonful  Now  add  the  shrimps,  season  and  when 

Nepaul  Pepper  or  hot  serve.  Whole  wheat  bread  sliced 

Paprika  thin,  buttered  and  a small  piece  of  let- 

UTENSILS:  tuce  thinly  spread  with  Hot  Relish, 

Measuring  Cup  Chafing  Dish  fancy  shapes  for  sandwiches  are 

Tablespoon  teaspoon  . •'  I . 

Lemon  Squeezer  very  nice  served  with  shrimps. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY. 


89 


Recipe  6.  SWEETBREADS  SAUTE  WITH  FRENCH  PEAS. 

Materials.  Measure.  DIRECTIONS. 

Sweetbreads  Prepare  the  sweetbreads  by  wash- 

aumbs'^Cwhite) . . well  in  cold  water,  removing  any 

Egg  of  the  pipes  and  membranes.  Cook 

Butter  them  in  boiling  salted  water  with  one 

tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  twenty 

, minutes.  Then  put  them  in  cold  water 

„ for  a few  minutes,  and  then  into  the 

* refrigerator  until  wanted  for  the  chaf- 

ShallSI  d'4  or  Saucer  for  Egg  dish  _ Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 

Plate  for  Bread  Crumbs  per,  roll  in  fine  white  bread  crumbs, 

then  in  the  beaten  egg,  again  in  the 

crumbs  and  saute  in  the  chafing  dish 
after  delicately  cooking  the  bacon.  Serve  the  sweetbreads  and  bacon  gar- 
nished with  the  French  peas  heated  and  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  7.  CHICKEN  HOLLANDAISE. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Cooked  Chicken  ....  1 Pint 

Chopped  Celery  ...  % Cup 

Butter  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Flour  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Onion  Juice 1 Teaspoonful 

Chopped  Parsley  ...  1 Tablespoonful 

Yolks  of  Eggs 2 

Juice  of  one-half 

Lemon  

Paprika  

Kitchen  Bouquet  ...  % Teaspoonful 

Stock  or  Water 1 Cup 

UTENSILS: 

Chafing  Dish  Measuring  Spoon 

Measuring  Cup  Egg  Beater 

Tablespoon  Bowl 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card 
Published  by  Yawman  & 1 
Copyright,  1906,  by 


DIRECTIONS. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish, 
add  the  celery  and  cook  just  a few  mo- 
ments. Stir  in  the  flour  and  water  or 
stock  gradually.  Add  the  remaining 
seasonings  with  the  carefully  cooked 
meat  of  the  chicken  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Stir  all  well  together  and  when 
well  heated  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten.  Serve  with  watercress 
sandwiches  and  thin  bread  and  butter. 

dex  Cooking  Recipes. 

)e  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
rs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  8.  THE  QUEEN’S  TOASTED  CHEESE. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight.  DIRECTIONS. 


Cheese,  not  too  soft  % lb. 

Ale  3 Tablespoonfuls 

Champagne  1 Small  Glass 

Dash  of  Cayenne  . . . 

Salt  % Teaspoonful 

Toast  


UTENSILS: 

Chafing  Dish  Grater 

Tablespoon  Wine  Glass 

Teaspoon 


This  is  the  recipe  from  the  Lodge 
at  Windsor.  Grate  the  cheese  fine  and 
add  the  ale  and  champagne.  Put  into 
the  chafing  dish  and  stir  well  until  the 
mixture  is  smooth  and  creamy.  Add 
the  seasoning  and  serve  very  hot  from 
the  chafing  dish  on  squares  of  toast. 
A light  salad  with  French  Dressing  is 
a nice  accompaniment  to  this. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Of) 


rriE  PEOPLirs  home  recipe  book. 


TOMATO  RAREBIT. 


Recipe  9. 

Materials.  Measure.  iVeight. 

Soft  American 

Cheese 1 lb. 

Strained  Tomatoes..  % Pint 

Salt  1 Teaspoonful 

Nepaitl  Pepper 

Soft  White  Bread 

Crumbs  1 Cup 

Clove  of  Garlic  .... 

Kitchen  Bouquet  ...  % Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Chafing  Dish  Tablespoon 

Teaspoon  Measuring  Cup 

Grater 


DIRECTIONS. 

Grate  the  cheese  and  mix  all  the 
ingredients  with  it.  Rub  the  chafing 
dish  with  a clove  of  garlic.  Turn  the 
mixture  into  the  pan  and  stir  rapidly 
until  hot  and  smooth.  Serve  at  once 
on  toast  accompanied  with  cucumber 
salad  and  French  Dressing. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 
Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  iNIfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N,  Y. 
Copyright,  1906,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  10. 


CHICKEN  A LA  KING. 


Cooke“ken,  DIRECTIONS. 

diced  2%  Cups 

Cream  2 Cups  Arrange  the  materials  in  the  fol- 

Button  Mushrooms.  % Cup  lowing  manner  to  bring  to  the  table; 

Flour  2 Tablespoonfuls  mold  the  butter,  a tablespoonful  in  each 

Green  Pepper % ball ; have  the  pepper  chopped  fine  on 

Salt  a little  butter  chip;  measure  the  flour, 

cream  in  a pitcher,  the  mushrooms 

cut  in  halves  and  the  chicken  cut  in 
cubes  in  a dish.  Light  the  chafing  dish 
UTENSILS:  butter  in  the  pan  to  melt, 

Chafing  Dish  Measuring  Cup  pepper  and  cook  three  or  four 

Wooden  Spoon  Tablespoon  minutes  without  allowing  the  butter  to 

brown.  Stir  in  the  flour,  then  the 

cream,  stirring  until  it  thickens.  Set 
into  the  hot  water  pan,  then  add  mushrooms,  chicken,  salt  and  paprika.  When 
heated  thoroughly,  serve  on  toast. 


THE  CANNING  OF  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

(Including  Both  Large  and  Small  Fruits,  Pineapples,  Asparagus,  Beans, 
Beets,  Tomatoes  and  Green  Corn.) 


“ Practice  makes  perfect.” 


Tt  is  not  difficult  to  can  all  kinds  of  fruits  and  vegetables  if  one  studies 
sterilization,  has  perfect  utensils  and  knows  how  to  select  fruits.  The  slight- 


THE  CANNING  OF  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 


91 


est  disregard  of  necessary  rules  in  the  canning  or  preservation  of  fruits  may 
cause  great  loss,  not  only  of  time  and  strength,  but  money  as  Avell. 

The  following  rules  have  been  used  many  times  with  perfect  success. 
If  you  fail  it  is  because  you  have  not  followed  the  suggestions  given. 

All  fruits  and  vegetables  to  be  perfect  should  be  canned  the  day  they 
are  picked.  If  this  is  not  possible,  when  purchased  at  the  stores,  come  as  close 
to  freshness  as  you  possibly  can. 

They  must  be  ripe,  not  bruised,  and  free  from  decay. 

They  must  be  cooked  in  the  cans  or  jars  in  which  they  are  to  be  kept; 
and  the  best  process  known  is  canning  by  steam.  Cans  or  jars  and  covers  (and 
rubbers  if  you  use  them)  should  be  perfect.  Use  new  rubbers  every  year. 
Use  jars  with  covers  which  are  absolutely  unaffected  by  any  known  food  acid, 
and  sweet  and  clean  as  the  glass  itself. 

The  jars  must  be  sterilized  by  placing  in  the  cooker  and  gradually  bring 
water  to  the  boiling  point,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Covers  should  be  dipped 
in  boiling  water  and  not  handled  on  the  inside  after  this  sterilizing. 

The  contents  of  every  jar  must  be  sterile;  that  is,  sufficiently  boiled  to 
destroy  all  the  germ  life  in  it ; otherwise  they  will  surely  spoil,  and  one  germ 
will  spoil  the  entire  contents.  Different  fruits  and  vegetables  require  differ- 
ent time  for  cooking,  as  some  germs  are  tougher  and  longer  lived  than  others. 

Fewer  utensils  are  necessary  with  the  steam  cooker  than  any  other 
method  of  canning,  and  these  should  also  be  sterilized  to  insure  perfect  suc- 
cess. 


Recipe  1.  RASPBERRIES  AND  ALL  SMALL  FRUITS. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Place  the  required  number  of  jars 
and  covers  in  the  kettle  of  cold  water 
over  a slow  fire  and  bring  slowly  to 
the  boiling  point.  Mash  the  currants 
and  press  out  the  juice  until  you  have 
the  required  amount.  Usually  a quart 
of  currants  makes  one-half  pint  of  juice. 
Bring  this  juice  to  the  boiling  point  and 
add  the  sugar.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  again,  skim  and  boil  fiv  minutes. 
Fill  the  hot  sterilized  jars  with  the 
berries,  adjust  the  rubbers  and  pour  over  the  boiling  syrup.  ^ Stand  the  jars 
in  the  cooker  and  steam  five  minutes.  If  the  jars  are  not  quite  full,  fill  from 
one  jar  then  return  them  to  the  cooker  and  steam  five  minutes  longer.  Seal 
tightly,  stand  aside  until  cool.  Then  tighten  again. 

In  canning  strawberries,  place  them  in  a colander  and  dip  them  up  and 
down  two  or  three  times  in  cold  water  to  remove  any  sand  or  dirt.  Drain 
and  stem  them.  Make  your  syrup,  using  water  in  place  of  currant  juice. 
Fill  the  jars  full  of  .berries  and  place  in  the  cooker.  Steam  for  ten  minutes. 
Lift  out  three  jars,  drain  free  from  juice  and  fill  two  of  them  from  the  steamed 
fruit  of  the  third;  fill  with  the  boiling  syrup,  adjust  rubbers  and  stand  again 


Materials.  Measure. 

Large  Red  Rasp- 
berries   1 Quart 

Currant  Juice  Vj  Pint 

Sugar % Cup 


UTENSILS: 


Steam  Cooker 
Large  Kettle 
Large  Enamel 
Spoon 
Towels 


Wide  Mouthed 
Funnel 
Fruit  Jars 
Stew  Pans 
Holders 


92 


THE  PEOPLFAS  PTOAIE  RECIPE  BOOK. 


in  the  cooker,  steaming  five  minutes  longer.  Seal  as  directed  for  rasp- 
berries. Keep  in  a cool,  dark  place. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  2.  CANNING  LARGE  FRUITS. 

(Peaches,  Pears,  Apples,  Pineapples,  Quinces,  Etc.) 


DIRECTIONS. 


Put  the  jars  and  covers  into  the 
large  kettle  filled  with  cold  water,  and 
bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Add 
the  sugar  to  the  given  amount  of  water, 
stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Place  it  over  the  fire  and  boil  ten  min- 
utes. Skim.  While  the  jars  are  heat- 
ing and  the  syrup  boiling,  put  the  fruit 
a little  at  a time  into  the  wire  basket 
and  dip  in  hot  water  for  just  a mo- 
ment. Cut  the  peaches  in  halves,  re- 
move the  stones  and  the  skins.  Be  sure  you  do  this,  as  the  peaches  are  kept 
in  perfect  shape.  Take  one  jar  at  a time  from  the  hot  water,  drain  and  neatly 
arrange  the  fruit  in  them.  Fill  to  overflowing  with  the  boiling  syrup,  ad- 
just the  sterilized  rubbers  and  steam  five  minutes.  Have  some  of  the  boil- 
ing syrup  in  readiness  and  if  the  syrup  is  not  at  the  top  of  the  jar,  fill  with 
the  syrup  to  overflowing  and  seal  at  once. 

These  directions  will  answer  for  all  large  fruits  such  as  pears,  apples, 
pineapples  and  quinces.  Add  just  a little  green  ginger  root  to  pears  for  flavor. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Peaches 8 lbs. 

Sugar  2 lbs. 

Water  1 Quart 


UTENSILS: 


Steam  Cooker 
Stew  Pan 
Wire  Basket 
Holders 
Measuring  Cup 
Large  Kettle 


Wide  Mouthed 
Funnel 

Wooden  Spoon 
Towels 
Fruit  Jars 
Scales 


Recipe  3.  ASPARAGUS  AND  STRING  BEANS. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Asparagus’ ^ 

Boiling  Water 

Salt  

UTENSILS: 

Steam  Cooker  Towels 

Holders  Fruit  Jars 

Paring  Knife  Large  Kettle 


removing  from  the  cooker,  then  lift 
Always  tighten  the  covers  after  t 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash,  drain  and  trim  fresh  aspara- 
gus. Fill  the  sterilized  jars  neatly, 
heads  up ; adjust  the  rubbers  and  place 
them  in  the  steam  cooker  and  steam 
without  water  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  then  fill  the  jars  with  boiling 
water.  Add  a teaspoonful  of  salt  to 
each  jar  and  steam  thirty  minutes 
longer.  Place  cover  on  the  jar  before 
out  carefully  and  screw  covers  on  tightly, 
he  jars  have  become  cold. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


93 


THE  CANNING  OF  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

Recipe  4.  PEAS,  LIMA  BEANS  OR  BEETS. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Select'  very  young  peas  and  be 
sure  they  are  freshly  picked.  Sterilize 
the  jars  as  directed  in  previous  recipes. 
Fill  the  peas  in  the  jars,  stand  in  the 
steam  cooker  and  steam  forty  minutes ; 
put  a teaspoonful  of  salt  in  each  jar 
and  fill  to  overflowing  with  boiling 
water.  Steam  again  twenty  minutes 
and  screw  on  the  tops.  In  removing 
the  tops  from  the  kettle  in  which  they  are  sterilized,  do  not  turn  them  up  or 
let  anything  come  in  contact  with  them,  not  even  the  fingers.  Peas  contain 
sugar.  The  air  is  full  of  wild  yeast  plants  which  live  upon  such  material. 
One  spore  on  the  inside  of  the  lid  might  spoil  the  entire  jar  of  vegetables. 
Keep  in  a cool,  dark  place. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials. 

Peas 

Boiling  "Water 
Salt 


Measure. 


UTENSILS: 

Steam  Cooker  Wide  Mouthed 

Towels  Funnel 

Tablespoon  Holders 

Large  Kettle  Fruit  Jars 


Recipe  5. 


CORN. 


Materials. 


Measure. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Corn 


UTENSILS: 

Steam  Cooker  Large  Kettle 

Tablespoon  Holders 

Wide  Mouthed  Towels 

Funnel 


After  removing  the  husks  and 
every  particle  of  silk  from  perfectly 
fresh  corn,  cut  it  from  the  cob,  pack 
it  in  sterilized  jars,  press  down  well 
and  fill  them.  Put  these  jars  into  the 

steam  cooker  and  steam  for  two  hours. 

If  the  corn  shrinks  fill  three  jars  from 
the  fourth  and  put  them  back  into  the 
cooker  and  steam  one  hour  longer.  Seal  carefully  as  directed  for  peas,  as 
corn  is  one  of  the  hardest  vegetables  to  can.  Watch  carefully  for  three  or 
four  days,  and  if  there  is  the  slightest  sign  of  fermentation,  remove  the  lids, 
put  them  back  into  the  cooker  and  steam  thirty  minutes  again. 

(Some,  who  do  not  have  a steam  cooker,  set  the  jars  in  boiling  water.) 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  bv  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


'PIIK  PEOPLE'S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  6.  TOMATOES. 

(Also  Raspberries,  Currants,  Cherries,  Pared  Plums,  Grapes,  Soft  Pears, 

Soft  Peaches,  Etc.) 

DIRECTIONS. 


Select  tomatoes  perfectly  fresh, 
firm  and  uniform  in  size  to  pass  into 
the  jars  perfectly  whole.  Place  a few 
tomatoes  at  a time  in  a wire  basket 
and  dip  in  boiling  water  to  loosen  the 
skins.  Sterilize  the  jars  and  fill  with 
tomatoes,  being  careful  not  to  crush 
them.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
fill  to  overflowing  with  boiling  water.  Screw  the  covers  on  tight  at  once, 
and  stand  in  a kettle  of  boiling  water,  turning  the  burner  out.  Let  stand 
until  cold.  Fruit  .such  as  raspberries,  currants,  cherries,  pared  plums,  grapes, 
soft  peaches  and  soft  pears  will  keep  nicely  in  this  same  way,  using  boiling 
syrup  instead  of  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co..  Rochester.  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Tomatoes  

Boiling  Water  

Salt  

UTENSILS: 

Steam  Cooker  Wire  Basket 
Large  Kettle 


Recipe  7. 


CANNED  PINEAPPLE. 


DIRECTIONS. 

Secure  perfectly  ripe  fruit,  and  cut 
crosswise  in  slices  from  one-half  to 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  peel 
and  remove  eyes  and  any  brown  spots 
and  pick  into  small  pieces  with  fork, 
or  cut  in  any  desired  shapes,  using  the 
silver  knife  for  this  purpose. 

Fill  the  copper  pan  of  the  steam 
cooker  with  cold  water,  set  the  jars 
inside  the  cooker,  put  over  the  fire,  bring  the  water  to  the  boiling  point  and 
boil  ten  minutes.  This  is  absolutely  necessary  for  sterilization  of  the  jars. 
In  the  meantime  add  the  juice  from  the  pineapple  to  the  water  and  sugar, 
put  this  into  the  stew  pan  over  the  fire,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil 
five  minutes  and  skim.  Remove  one  jar  at  a time  from  the  cooker,  fill  with 
the  pineapple  and  then  to  overflowing  with  the  boiling  syrup.  Put  those 
filled  into  the  cooker,  lay  the  cover  on  top,  which  has  been  dipped  for  a second 
time  in  boiling  water,  and  steam  fifteen  minutes.  Now  remove  each  jar, 
lift  off  the  cover  and  place  again  in  boiling  water  while  you  fill  the  jar  to 
overflowing  with  the  remaining  boiling  syrup.  Replace  the  cover  quickly, 
sealing  tight,  and  stand  aside  to  cool.  The  next  morning  and  for  nearly  a 
week,  watch  your  fruit  carefully  to  see  if  it  is  going  to  keep.  The  contents 
of  every  jar  must  be  sterile  (dead),  one  germ  on  the  cover,  in  the  jar  or 
fruit  will  spoil  the  entire  contents. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Ripe  Pineapples  . . . 

Water  and  Juice  ...  1 Pint 
Gran.  Sugar  1 Pint 

UTENSILS: 

Sharp  Butcher  Knife  Fruit  Jars 
Vegetable  Knife  Measuring  Cup 

Silver  Knife  or  Fork  Steam  Cooker 
Stew  Pan  Wooden  Spoon 


PRESERVING  AND  JELLY  MAKING. 

(Including  Jams  and  Fruit  Juices.) 


“ There  is  every  kind  of  berry  in  my  pail, 

I wanted  blue  ones  only, 

But  on  this  fruitful  road  I could  not  fail 
To  find  all  kinds  of  berries  in  my  pail.” 

In  preserving,  canning  or  jelly  making,  iron  or  tin  utensils  should  never 
be  used.  The  fruit  acids  attack  these  metals  and  give  both  bad  color  and 
taste  to  the  fruit. 

The  kettle  should  be  broad  rather  than  deep,  and  this  may  be  procelain 
lined,  enameled  or  aluminum.  As  in  any  other  work,  the  proper  tools  or 
utensils  are  necessary  for  the  best  results  in  canning,  preserving  and  jelly 
making,  such  as  preserving  kettle,  steam  cooker  or  large  kettle,  skimmer, 
colander,  wire  sieve,  wooden  spoon,  measuring  cup,  sauce  pan,  scales  for  large 
fruits  if  possible,  wooden  masher,  cheese  cloth  jelly  bag  and  plenty  of  clean 
cloth  or  towels.  The  regular  kitchen  pans  hold  the  fruit  and  sugar. 

When  the  fruit  is  purchased,  keep  it  where  it  will  keep  cool  and  free 
from  dust  or  flies  until  ready  to  use.  System  will  do  much  to  lighten  the 
work.  Have  the  kitchen  swept  and  dusted  thoroughly  with  a damp  cloth 
to  keep  down  all  dust  and  thus  have  less  danger  in  keeping  the  fruit. 

Have  a kettle  ready  for  sterilizing  the  jars  and  all  necessary  utensils  and 
sugar  at  hand.  Then  with  a moderate  amount  of  fruit  to  put  up  at  one  time 
the  work  should  be  a pleasure. 

To  each  quart  of  large  fruit  one  pint  of  syrup  is  necessary  for  can- 
ning. Two-thirds  of  a pint  of  syrup  for  a quart  of  the  small  fruits.  One  pint 
of  sugar  and  the  same  of  water  put  over  the  fire,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  five  minutes  or  longer  if 
desired  richer.  This  makes  a good  syrup  for  all  canned  acid  fruits. 

A light  syrup  may  be  made  from  one  pint  of  sugar  and  two  pints  of  water 
boiled  ten  minutes  for  canning  blueberries,  and  proceed  precisely  the  same 
as  for  canning  raspberries,  cherries  and  currants. 

Fruit  syrups  and  fruit  juices  are  two  most  desirable  ways  for  the  preser- 
vation of  fruit,  and  are  most  desirable  for  delicious  drinks,  sauces,  ices  and 
ice  cream.  Pineapples,  cherries,  grapes,  currants,  oranges,  lemons,  raspberries 
and  strawberries  may  all  be  used  for  this  purpose.  IBe  careful  of  too  much 
boiling,  as  it  destroys  the  color  and  flavor  of  the  fruit  juices  or  when  made 
into  syrup.  It  keeps  well  the  entire  year  and  should  be  made  when  fruits 
are  seasonable  and  reasonable  in  price. 

One  recipe  will  answer  for  all  fruit  juices.  They  may  be  bottled  with  or 
without  sugar.  Currant  juice  may  be  sterilized  and  canned  without  sugar, 
making  the  jelly  at  any  season  of  the  year. 

Use  self-sealing  bottles  instead  of  cans. 

The  amount  of  sugar,  when  used  for  grape  juice,  cherries  and  plums  is 
one-half  pint  to  each  quart  of  juice.  Currants  will  require  one  pint  of  sugar 
to  a quart  of  juice.  I will  give  the  recipe  for  Grape  Juice  and  this  will  answer 
for  all  the  given  fruits  as  directed. 


96 


on 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  1.  GRAPE  JUICE. 

Wash  the  grapes  and  pick  them  from  the  stems.  Put  them  into  a pre- 
serving kettle — porcelain  lined — crush  a little,  adding  just  enough  water  to 
prevent  them  from  sticking.  Cover  and  heat  slowly  until  the  grapes  are  soft 
and  the  juices  well  out.  Turn  into  a double  cheese  cloth  bag  and  drain  over 
night.  The  next  morning  sterilize  the  bottles.  Return  the  juice  to  the  clean 
preserving  kettle  over  the  fire.  Let  come  to  a boil  and  skim.  Repeat.  Add 
the  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Let  come  to  the  boiling  point,  skim  and 
rinse  the  bottles  with  a little  alcohol,  fill  them  and  cork.  Put  them  into  the 
steamer  or  a kettle  of  hot  water  and  boil  them  thirty  minutes.  Place  on  a 
wire  cooler  away  from  the  draft  to  cool. 

The  only  difference  between  the  syrups  and  juices  is  that  in  the  syrup 
more  sugar  is  used. 

Recipe  2.  BLACKBERRY  JAM. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Blackberries  1 Quart 

Sugar  3 Cups 


UTENSILS: 

Sieve  Wooden  Masher 

Jelly  Glasses  Measuring  Cup 

Porcelain  Lined  Wooden  Spoon 

Kettle 


DIRECTIONS. 

Heat  the  berries  very  slowly,  then 
mash  them  through  the  sieve.  Have 
the  sugar  heated  in  a moderate  oven. 
Pour  the  blackberry  juice  and  pulp 
into  the  kettle ; bring  to  a boil  and  then 
add  the  sugar.  Stir  both  together, 
boil  very  rapidly  and  watch  carefully 
that  it  does  not  burn.  Boil  until  it 
sets  or  ‘‘  wrinkles  ” when  a little  is 


taken  out  in  a di.sh  and  placed  on  ice. 

If  you  do  not  wish  the  seeds  removed  from  the  berries  put  them  at 
once  into  the  kettle ; stir  and  crush  with  a wooden  spoon  and  boil  thirty 
minutes,  then  add  the  sugar  and  proceed  as  above.  Put  in  small  tumblers 
and  cover  tightly. 


^ Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  3. 

Materials. 

Currants  1 Quart 

Sugar  3 Cups 


CURRANT  JAM. 

Measure. 


DIRECTIONS. 


UTENSILS: 

Porcelain  Kettle  Jelly  Glasses 
Wooden  Spoon  Measuring  Cup 


Wash  the  currants  and  pick  them 
from  the  stems;  then  measure  the  cur- 
rants and  sugar  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  bring  them  to 
the  boiling  point,  stirring  almost  con- 

tinually  until  finished.  Test  this  as  you 

would  for  jelly  by  taking  a little  out 
in  a saucer  and  cooling  on  ice.  If  it  congeals  it  is  ready  to  pour  into  the 
jelly  glasses  and  finish  in  the  sunshine.  Seal  as  you  would  jellies.  Equal 
parts  of  raspberries  and  currants  are  a nice  combination  ; and  in  the  red 


PRESERVING  AND  JELLY  MAKING. 


97 


raspberry  jam  a half  a cupful  of  currant  juice  to  every  quart  of  berries  adds 
much  to  the  flavor  of  the  jam. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


RHUBARB  JAM. 


Recipe  4. 

Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 


Rhubarb  

3 lbs. 

Figs  

V2lb. 

Orange  Peel 

V4lb. 

Grated  Lemon  and 

Juice  1 

Sugar  

2V2  lbs. 

UTENSILS; 

Paring  Knife  Lemon  Squeezer 

Scales  Jelly  Glasses 

Porcelain  Lined  Kettle 


DIRECTIONS. 

Cut  the  rhubarb  in  inch  length 
pieces.  Take  ordinary  dried  figs  and 
cut  in  medium  sized  pieces;  shred  the 
orange  peel  and  add  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  the  lemon.  Put  a layer 
of  rhubarb,  figs,  orange  peel,  lemon 
and  sugar  and  repeat  these  layers  until 
all  is  used;  cover  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  boil  until  thick, 
about  one  hour  will  do.  Put  away 
in  jelly  glasses.  This  is  delicious  and 
very  nice  for  sweet  sandwiches  for  af- 
ternoon tea. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk, 


Recipe  5.  STRAWBERRY  JAM. 

(Also  Black  and  Red  Raspberry  Jam.) 


DIRECTIONS. 


Put  the  berries  into  the  colander 
and  dip  it  up  and  down  once  or  twice 
in  cold  water.  Drain,  and  hull  them. 
Measure  half  the  berries  and  empty 
them  into  the  kettle,  placing  over  a 
moderate  fire  to  heat,  mashing  the 
berries  well.  Do  not  let  them  boil, 
but  mash  and  heat  until  all  the  juices 
are  well  started.  Measure  and  for 
every  pint  of  this  pulp  add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Put  both  together  into  the 
kettle  and  bring-quickly  to  the  boiling  point,  boiling  rapidly  and  skimming 
until  perfectly  clear,  which  will  take  about  fifteen  minutes  from  the  time 
it  begins  to  boil.  Now  add  the  remaining  two  quarts  of  whole  strawberries. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  again,  boil  five  minutes.  If  you  wish  it  cooked 
down  very  thick  carefully  skim  out  the  berries  and  cook  the  juice  from 


Materials.  Measure. 

Strawberries  4 Quarts 

Sugar 2 Quarts 

UTENSILS: 

Porcelain  Lined  Jelly  Glasses 

Kettle  Colander 

Wooden  Masher  Silver  Tablespoon 

Measuring  Cup 


2-7 


98 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


five  to  fifteen  minutes.  Unite  the  berries  with  this  juice  and  put  by  spoonfuls 
into  the  hot  sterilized  tumblers  and  finish  in  the  sunshine  where  it  is  free 
from  dust,  or  with  glass  over  the  tops,  and  seal  as  directed. 

Strawberries  and  grated  pineapple  make  a delicious  combination. 

Black  or  red  raspberries  may  be  prepared  in  precisely  the  same  manner 
as  the  strawberries. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  6.  SPICED  CURRANTS. 


Materials. 

Currants  

Gran.  Sugar  

Vinegar  

Ground  Cloves  

Ground  Cinnamon.. 
Ground  Allspice  . . . 


Measure.  Weight. 
1 Quart 

3 lbs, 

1 Pint 

1 Tablcspoonful 
1 Tablespoonful 
1 Tablespoonful 


UTENSILS: 


Porcelain  Lined 
Kettle 

Measuring  Cup 


Tablespoon 

Scales 

Wooden  Spoon 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  and  stem  the  currants,  then 
measure  and  arrange  proportions  as 
given.  Put  the  vinegar  into  the  kettle 
and  then  the  sugar,  stirring  until  well 
dissolved.  Add  the  fruit  and  spices 
and  boil  two  hours.  This  may  boil 
more  slowly  than  for  jams,  but  must 
be  watched  and  stirred  often  so  that 
it  does  not  burn  nor  stick. 

Ripe  cherries  and  gooseberries  are 
delicious  spiced  in  this  manner  and  all 
are  nice  to  serve  with  cold  meats. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  7.  QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

DIRECTIONS. 


Wash  and  wipe  the  quinces. 
Pare,  core  and  cut  into  slices,  or  they 
may  be  quartered.  Be  sure  to  throw 
each  piece  into  cold  water  to  prevent 
discoloration.  Put  them  into  the  kettle 
and  barely  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Simmer  until  tender;  skim  out  the 
fruit  very  carefully  and  add  the  parings 
but  not  the  cores  to  the  liquid ; cover  and  simmer  one  hour.  Strain  and  to 
every  pint  of  this  juice  allow  one  pint  of  sugar;  stir  until  dissolved.  Bring 
quickly  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  hard  (if  there  is  a quart  of  juice)  fifteen 
minutes,  skimming  well.  Now  put  in  the  quinces  and  boil  until  clear  and 
red.  It  is  better  to  keep  them  covered  if  you  wish  them  bright  in  color. 
When  the  quinces  are  done  skim  out  into  hot  sterilized  jelly  glasses.  Boil 


Materials.  Measure. 

Ripe  Quinces  

Sugar  

UTENSILS: 

Paring  Knife  Scales 

Porcelain  Lined  Measuring  Cup 

Kettle  Skimmer 


PRESERVING  AND  JELLY  MAKING.  99 


the  juice  if  necessary  a little  longer  to  become  thick ; pour  this  over  the 
fruit  and  stand  in  the  sunshine  to  finish.  Seal  as  directed. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  8.  SAN  DIEGO  ORANGE  MARMALADE. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Oranges  (Navel) ...  6 

Lemons 3 

Water  7 Cups 

Sugar  


UTENSILS: 


Large  Bowl 

Shears 

Kettle 

Measuring  Cup 


Paring  Knife 
Wooden  Spoon 
Glasses 


DIRECTIONS. 

Cut  off  the  ends  of  the  oranges  and 
lemons  and  throw  away.  Peel  thin 
oranges  and  lemons  round  and  round 
like  an  apple  and  then  cut  with  shears 
very  fine.  Remove  the  white  skin  and 
cut  the  pulp  into  fine  pieces.  Cover 
the  pulp  and  shredded  peel  well  with 
cold  water  and  let  stand  12  to  24  hours. 
Drain,  add  the  water  and  cook  until 
reduced  one  inch  or  until  the  rinds  are 
tender.  Add  equal  amount  of  sugar 
and  cook  until  it  jellies. 


Recipe  9.  SMALL  FRUIT  JELLY. 


DIRECTIONS. 


Select  the  currants  and  pick  over 
as  previously  directed  for  small  fruits. 
Put  them  into  the  preserving  kettle. 
Do  not  stem  them  but  mash  well. 
Place  over  the  fire  until  heated  and  the 
juices  well  started.  Put  into  the  jelly 
bag  and  drain  over  night.  The  next 
morning,  wash  and  put  the  glasses  into 
the  kettle  with  cold  water  and  bring 
slowly  to  the  boiling  point  ready  for  use.  Measure  the  juice  and  for  each 
pint  or  quart  of  juice  an  equal  amount  of  sugar.  Measure  the  juice  into 
the  kettle,  put  over  the  fire,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  it  twenty 
minutes,  skimming  often.  After  the  juice  has  been  boiling  for  about  ten 
minutes,  measure  the  sugar  into  a pan,  place  in  a moderate  oven  and  heat, 
being  careful  not  to  melt  it. 

When  the  juice  has  cooked  the  required  time,  add  the  sugar,  stir  until 
all  is  dissolved.  If  your  fruit  was  not  over-ripe  and  your  work  carefully  done, 
the  jelly  will  be  ready  to  strain  at  once  into  glasses ; if  not,  it  must  be  cooked 
longer.  Set  in  the  sunshine  to  finish.  Cover  with  melted  paraffine,  label 
and  set  away  in  a dark,  cool  closet.  Grapes,  raspberries  and  blackberries 


Materials.  Measure. 

Currant  Juice 1 Quart 

Sugar 1 Quart 


Jelly  Bag 
Masher 

Measuring  Cup 
Porcelain  Lined 
Kettle 


UTENSILS: 

Large  Kettle 
Skimmer 
Small  Glasses 
Strainer 


TOO 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK, 


are  made  m the  same  manner.  A mixture  of  fruit  juices  always  makes  a 
pleasant  variety. 

For  red  raspberry  jelly  add  one-third  currant  juice.  For  crab-apple 
jelly  the  addition  of  wild  plum  juice  improves  the  flavor,  or  a stick  of  cin- 
namon, or  even  the  native  grape  juice.  Under-ripe  grapes  make  an  espe- 
cially attractive  jelly.  Black  raspberry  and  crab-apple,  and  grape  and  crab- 
apple  make  a nice  combination. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg,  Co.,  Rochester,  N Y 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk, 


Recipe  10.  APPLE  JELLY,  QUINCES  OR  CRAB-APPLES. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  the  fruit,  remove  the  cores 
and  cut  the  apples  into  small  pieces; 
put  them  into  a large  porcelain  lined 
• kettle  and  barely  cover  with  cold  water. 
Cover  and  boil  gently  until  the  fruit  is 
soft  and  the  juice  is  well  started.  Pour 
into  the  jelly  bag  and  drain  over  night. 
The  next  morning  wash  and  prepare 
the  glasses  for  sterilizing  as  before  di- 
rected. Measure  the  juice.  Put  it  into 
the  porcelain  lined  kettle,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Have  measured  and  heated  three-fourths  the  amount  of  sugar  that  you  had 
juice.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  juice  as  previously  directed,  stirring  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  and  it  should  be  ready  to  strain  at  once  into  the  glasses. 
If  you  are  not  quite  sure;  take  out  a little  in  a dish  and  try  it  by  standing 
on  ice.  If  it  congeals  or  wrinkles  on  the  top  it  is  ready  to  put  at  once  into 
glasses.  Finish  as  previously  directed  for  jellies. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Materials.  ^ Measure. 

Lady  Blush  or  Pip- 
pin Apples 

Juice  from  Apples. . . 1 Quart 
Gran.  Sugar  3 Cups 


UTENSILS: 

Large  Kettle  Porcelain  Kettle 

Jelly  Bag  Paring  Knife 

Glasses  Skimmer 

Measuring  Cup  Strainer 


Recipe  11.  MIXED  JELLY. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Equal  portions  of 
Cherries,  Red  Rasp- 
berries.  Currants, 

Strawberries,  Sugar 

UTENSILS: 

Jelly  Bag  Porcelain  Lined 

Masher  Kettle 

Strainer  Glasses 

Measuring  Cup 


DIRECTIONS. 

Stone  the  cherries,  being  sure  to 
save  all  juice  that  escapes.  Mix  all  the 
fruits  together  and  mash  well.  Heat 
only  until  the  juices  are  well  started 
and  then  turn  the  jelly  bag  and  squeeze 
thoroughly.  Put  the  juice  into  an- 
other jelly  bag  and  drain  without 
squeezing.  Measure  the  juice  and  to 
every  pint  allow  one  pound  or  two 
cups  of  sugar.  Turn  the  juice  into 


PICKLING. 


101 


the  kettle  and  if  there  is  one  quart  of  juice  boil  twenty  minutes  and  finish 
the  same  as  other  jellies  in  preceding  recipes. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


PICKLING. 


(Including  Watermelon,  Peach,  Pear,  Tomato,  Cucumber  and  Oiled  Pickles 
and  Chow  Chow,  Chili  Sauce  and  Relishes.) 


“Prove  all  things;  hold  fast  that  which  is  good.” 

(All  measurements  level.) 

Sweet  pickles  are  made  from  all  fruits  that  can  be  preserved  such  as 
citron,  watermelon  rind,  crab-apples,  peaches,  pears,  cucumbers  and  many 
others. 

Spiced  fruits  from  currants  and  gooseberries  are  delicious  with  cold 
meats. 

Good  cider  vinegar  only  should  be  used  for  pickling,  brown  or  white 
sugar  and  the  very  best  spices  which  can  be  bought.  The  housekeeper  has 
every  opportunity  now  under  the  Pure  Food  Law  of  knowing  whether  she  has 
genuine  spices  or  ground  leaves.  There  is,  or  has  been,  so  much  adulteration 
in  spices  that  I make  this  appeal  to  housekeepers  to  not  buy  cheap,  inferior 
spices.  The  success  of  pickling  where  spices  are  used  depends  mainly  upon 
their  purity  and  flavor. 

The  syrup  for  the  sweet  pickles  should  be  rich  and  thick  and  sufficiently 
cooked  to  keep  without  being  sealed. 

Do  not  use  preservatives  or  coloring  matter  of  any  kind.  Do  your  pick- 
ling carefully,  not  too  much  at  once.  Have  variety  rather  than  quantity,  then 
there  will  be  no  failures. 

Recipe  1.  WATERMELON,  PEACH  OR  PEAR  PICKLES. 


Materials.  Measure.  Weight. 

Ground  Allspice  ....  2 Teaspoonfuls 

Cinnamon  2 Teaspoonfuls 

Cloves  1 Teaspoonful 

Mace  1 Teaspoonful 

Light  Brown  Sugar  4 lbs. 

Cider  Vinegar  1 Pint 

Green  Ginger  Root. . % oz. 

Watermelon  Rind  ..  7 lbs. 

UTENSILS: 

Porcelain  Lined  Teaspoon 

Kettle  Jars 

.Scales  Paring  Knife 

Measuring  Cup 


DIRECTIONS. 

Divide  the  spices  in  three  parts 
and  tie  up  in  muslin  bags.  Put  the 
sugar  and  vinegar  into  the  kettle ; add 
the  spice  bags  and  ginger  root  broken 
into  small  pieces.  Bring  to  a boil  and 
put  in  the  watermelon  rind  cut  in  about 
two-inch-length  pieces,  having  soaked 
these  in  a little  weak  alum  water  over 
night.  Bring  to  a boil  once  more,  re- 
move from  fire,  cover  and  let  stand  in 
a cool  place  twenty-four  hours.  Then 
take  out  the  melon  rind  and  let  the 
syrup  again  come  to  a boil.  Add  the 


102 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


rind  again  and  set  away  for  another  twenty-four  hours.  Do  this  daily 
for  one  week.  The  last  time,  bring  all  to  a boil  and  simmer  very  gently 
ten  minutes  and  put  away  in  jars.  Do  not  think  any  part  of  this  too  much 
trouble  as  results  are  good  and  you  will  feel  well  repaid  for  the  effort,  which 
really  takes  only  a few  minutes  each  day. 

For  pickling  peaches  use  a fine  freestone  and  prepare  as  for  canning, 
except  do  not  cut  in  halves.  Pears  are  cut  in  halves. 

Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  2. 


GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES. 


Materials. 

Green  Tomatoes  . 

Measure. 

. . 1 Peck 

Weight. 

Whole  Allspice  . . 
Sliced  Onions  . . . . 

1 OZ. 

Black  Pepper  . . . . 

1%  OZS. 

Ground  Mustard  . 

lb. 

Whole  Cloves  . . . 

1 oz. 

Mustard  Seed 

Cider  Vinegar  . . . 

1 oz. 

UTENSILS: 

Large  Bowl  or  Stone  or  Glass  Jars 

Crock  Porcelain  Lined 

Paring  Knife  Kettle 

Scales 


DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  the  tomatoes  and  carefully 
remove  any  spots  on  them.  Slice,  and 
place  first  a layer  of  tomato,  then  one 
of  onion,  then  salt  and  repeat  until  all 
are  used.  Cover  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  all  the 
liquor  or  juice.  Put  them  in  the  porce- 
lain lined  kettle  with  all  the  ingredients, 
cover  with  vinegar  and  simmer  gently 
for  twenty  minutes.  Put  away  in 
stone  or  glass  jars. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  3.  CHOW  CHOW. 


Materials. 

English  Mustard 

Tumeric  

Mustard  

Cider  Vinegar  . 
Brown  Sugr.r  .. . 

Olive  Oil  

Cauliflower  .... 
Tiny  Cucumbers 
Button  Onions  . , 


2 

1 

1 

1 

1 


Measure.  Weight. 

V2  lb. 
V'l  oz. 
Tablespoonfuls 
% Gallon 
Cup 
% Cup 
Head 
Quart 
Quart 


UTENSILS: 

Two  Stew  Pans  Large  Bowl 

Porcelain  Kettle  Wooden  Spoon 

Measuring  Cup  Tablespoon 

Scales  Jars 


DIRECTIONS. 

Cover  the  cucumbers  with  strong 
salt  water  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Boil  the  cauliflower  and  onions  sepa- 
rately. Put  the  vinegar  into  the  kettle. 
Mix  the  mustard  and  tumeric  together 
and  moisten  them  with  a little  cold 
vinegar,  then  stir  them  into  the  hot 
vinegar  and  stir  continuously  until  it 
begins  to  thicken ; then  add  the  remain- 
ing ingredients  and  pour  this  while  hot 
over  the  well  drained  vegetables.  Seal 
in  jars. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


PICKLING. 


103 


Recipe  4.  CUCUMBER  SAUCE. 

Materials.  Measure,  Weight.  DIRECTIONS, 

Large  Cucumbers. . . 1 Dozen 

Onions  % Peck  Chop  the  cucumbers  (without  par- 

Mustard  Seed 3 oz.  jng)  and  onions  fine  in  the  food  chop- 

Small  Red  Peppers..  1 Dozen  per.  Put  alternate  layers  of  cucumbers 

Celery  Seed 1 Tablespoonful  and  onions  (salting  each  layer)  into  the 

Butter  % Cup  crock  and  press  over  night  with  heavy 

Sugar  V2  Cup  weights.  In  the  morning  drain,  scald 

Salt  1 TablespoonfM  jn  good  cider  vinegar  (enough  to 

Ground  Mustard  ...  1 Tablespoonful  cover),  then  add  red  peppers  chopped* 

Eggs  4 fine,  mustard  and  celery,  stirring  thor- 

Cream  1 Cup  oughly,  to  which  you  will  add  the  fol- 

Vinegar  1V2  Pints  lowing  dressing:  Cream  the  butter 

and  sugar  and  add  the  remaining  sea- 
sonings, beating  in  the  eggs  one  at  a 
UTENSILS:  time;  lastly  add  the  cream.  Have 

Food  Chopper  Measuring  Cup  ready  the  vinegar  boiling  hot,  stir  all 

Crock  Tablespoon  into  it.  Allow  this  dressing  to  just 

Wooden  Spoon  Stew  Pan  come  to  the  boiling  point,  then  stir 

Mixing  Bowl  Porcelain  Lined  this  into  the  cucumber  mixture  and  it 

Kettle  is  ready  to  put  into  jars. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg,  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  5. 


OILED  PICKLES. 


Materials. 

Measure.  Weight. 

Small  Pickles  . . . . 

..100 

Ground  Mustard  . 

V4  Ib. 

Black  Pepper  . . . . 

..  1 Teasp’ful 

Whole  Mustard  .. 

% lb. 

Small  Onions  . . , 

. . 1 Quart 

Olive  Oil  

. . 1 Pint 

Celery  Seed  

3 oz. 

Cider  Vinegar  . . . 

. . 3 Quarts 

DIRECTIONS. 

Wash  and  with  a cloth  rub  the 
cucumbers  well ; peel  the  onions  and 
slice  both  in  thin  slices.  Put  a layer 
of  cucumbers  and  one  of  onions,  then  a 
good  sprinkling  of  salt,  then  repeat  the 
layers  and  salt,  continuing  until  all  is 
used.  On  top  place  a weight  and  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning,  drain. 
Put  a tablespoonful  of  powdered  alum 
in  sufficient  cold  vinegar  to  cover  the 
pickles,  and  let  them  stand  until  after- 

noon.  Drain  again.  Do  not  waste 

this  vinegar  as  it  can  be  used  for  other 
pickles.  Put  the  cucumbers  and  onions  into  jars,  mix  all  the  remaining  in- 
gredients together,  gradually  adding  the  oil  and  vinegar  and  pour  over  them. 
Seal. 

Mrs.  Kirk's  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Supplemental  Set  No,  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


UTENSILS: 

Paring  Knife  Large  Bowl 


Tablespoon 

Teaspoon 

Jars 


Measuring  Cup 
Scales 


104 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Recipe  6.  CHILI 

Materials.  Measure. 

Ripe  Tomatoes  ....  8 Quarts 

Grated  Horseradish  V2  Cup 

Salt  % Cup 

Celery  Seed 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Brown  Sugar  ^ 1 Cup 

Ground  Allspice  ...  1%  Tablespoonfuls 

Mace  1 Teaspoonful 

White  Pepper  1 Tablespoonful 

Small  Red  Peppers..  2 

Vinegar  1 Quart 

Large  Onions  3 


UTENSILS: 


Paring  Knife 
Colander 
Food  Chopper 
Porcelain  Lined 
Kettle 


Wooden  Spoon 
Wide  Mouthed 
Bottles 
Sealing  Wax 
Corks 


SAUCE. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Peel  the  tomatoes,  cut  them  in 
halves  and  remove  all  the  seeds  pos- 
sible; chop  fine.  Chop  fine  the  onion 
and  peppers.  Mix  all  the  ingredients 
well  together  and  put  in  a porcelain 
lined  kettle  and  simmer  slowly  for  2% 
hours,  then  put  into  the  bottles,  cork 
and  seal. 


Mrs.  Kirk  s Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  1.  Copyright,  1907,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


Recipe  7.  PEPPER  RELISH. 


Materials.  Measure. 

Red  Sweet  Peppers.  6 
Green  Sweet  Pep- 
pers   6 

Onions  6 

Small  Cabbage 1 

Sugar 1 Cup 

Salt  2 Tablespoonfuls 

Vinegar  1 Quart 

UTENSILS: 

Food  Chopper  Large  Bowl 
Preserving  Kettle  Fruit  Jars 


DIRECTIONS. 

Chop  all  the  ingredients,  using  the 
medium  sized  cutter.  Put  into  the 
bowl,  poiir  boiling  water  over  all  and 
squeeze  dry.  Have  the  vinegar  hot 
with  the  sugar  and  salt  in  the  preserv- 
ing kettle.  Mix  all  well  together,  let 
come  to  a boil,  cool  and  seal  in  Jars. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  3.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


GENUINE  LONGFELLOW  PICKLES. 

DIRECTIONS. 


Recipe  8. 

Materials.  Measure. 

Green  Tomatoes  ...  1 Peck 

Onions  1 Dozen 

Green  Peppers 4 

Sugar 2 Cups 

Ground  Cloves 1 Tablespoonful 

Ginger  1 Tablespoonful 

Cinnamon  1 Tablespoonful 

Allspice  ....* 1 Tablespoonful 

Mustard  Seed 1 Tablespoonful 

Celery  Seed 1 Tablespoonful 

Cider  Vinegar 

Salt % Cup 

UTENSILS: 

Vegetable  Knife  Measuring  Cup 

Tablespoon  Preserving  Kettle 

Large  Mixing  Bowl  Glass  Jars 


Wash  and  slice  the  tomatoes, 
onions  and  peppers  into  a large  bowl 
and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Stand  over 
night ; the  next  morning  drain,  and  put 
into  a preserving  kettle  with  the  spices 
and  cover  with  good  vinegar;  cook 
until  tender.  Put  away  in  jars,  being 
careful  not  to  break  the  slices  of  to- 
matoes. 


Mrs.  Kirk’s  Card  Index  Cooking  Recipes. 

Published  by  Yawman  & Erbe  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Supplemental  Set  No.  3.  Copyright,  1908,  by  Mrs.  Alice  Gitchell  Kirk. 


(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 

NO.  5.  TABLE  SET  FOR  A DINNER  WHERE  THE  FIRST  COURSE  IS  A 

FRUIT  COCKTAIL. 

This  is  the  same  as  No.  4 except  cliange  in  Center  Decorations.  (See  descriptio-i 
of  No.  4.) 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPES 
FOR  EVERY-DAY  USE. 


“ Simple  diet  is  best  for  many  dishes  bring  many  diseases.’’ 

The  recipes  in  this  department  have  been  gathered  from  many  parts  of 
the  world  and  have  all  been  carefully  corrected  and  arranged  with  the  view 
of  making  them  the  favorite  recipes  for  every-day  use  in  the  home.  Though 
the  work  is  complete  and  covers  every  subject,  yet  special  attention  has 
been  given  to  the  simple  and  inexpensive  dishes.  This  department  will  be 
found  thoroughly  practical  and  entirely  different  from  all  other  cook  books. 
The  aim  has  been  to  give  full  and  complete  directions  with  each  subject,  not 
only  that  the  experienced  cook  may  use  it  as  a guide,  but  also  that  the  young 
and  inexperienced  housewife  can  make  a practical  use  of  the  book. 


BREAD  MAKING. 

(Including  Recipes  and  Directions  for  Making  White  Bread,  Whole  Wheat 
Bread,  Oatmeal  Bread,  Brown  Bread,  Graham  Bread,*  Corn  Bread,  Currant 
Bread,  Cornish  Bread,  Salt  Rising  Bread,  Gingerbread,  Etc.  Also  Recipes 
for  Making  all  Kinds  of  Yeast  and  Baking  Powder.) 


“ Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread.” 

“ In  bread  making,  as  in  baseball,  there  is  nothing  like  a good  batter  in  the 

hour  of  knead.” 

As  “ bread  is  the  staff  of  life,”  it  is  important  that  every  housewife  be 
well  skilled  in  the  art  of  making  good  bread.  Spongy  sweet  bread,  light 
crisp  rolls  or  flaky  biscuits  make  the  plainest  meal  appetizing  while  the  most 
luxurious  dinner  is  a failure  without  them.  Indeed  the  health  and  comfort 
of  the  family  is  often  determined  by  the  quality  of  the  home  made  loaves  and 
it  is  an  old  saying  that  the  way  to  a man’s  heart  is  through  his  stomach. 
Then  why  should  not  every  young  woman  learn  this  art?  There  is  no 
greater  accomplishment.  In  bread  making  three  things  are  important — good 
flour,  good  yeast  and  good  care. 

FLOUR. 

There  is  no  accurate  rule  by  which  the  grade  of  flour  can  be  determined 
by  examination  and  it  is  well  to  stick  by  some  tried  brand  which  has  been 
used  with  success.  A brand  which  is  liked  by  one  will  be  a failure  in  the 

106 


106 


THE  PEOPLE'S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


hands  of  another.  Good  flour  has  a cream-white  tint  and  one  should  never 
buy  that  which  has  a blue-white  tinge.  Poor  flour  often  has  a dingy  appear- 
ance as  though  mixed  with  ashes,  is  not  adhesive,  and  may  be  blown  about 
easily.  Good  flour  will  adhere  to  the  hand  when  pressed  and  will  show  the 
imprint  of  the  lines  of  the  skin.  Flour  should  always  be  thoroughly  sifted^ 
A single  speck  of  mold  will  often  spoil  the  bread.  Flour  should  be  bought  in 
small  quantities,  kept  dry,  cool,  and  beyond  the  reach  of  rats,  mice  and  insects. 
The  small  moth  does  much  damage.  Remember  that  all  kinds  of  flour  and 
meal,  except  buckwheat  and  graham,  need  sifting.  It  is  well  to  nave  a pail 
with  a tight-fitting  cover  in  which  to  keep  flour  after  sifting  until  it  is  needed. 

YEAST. 

After  flour,  the  yeast  is  the  most  essential  element  in  bread.  Most  people 
prefer  yeast  bread  but  there  are  some  who  prefer  “ salt-rising  ” bread.  Many 
of  the  dry  hop  yeasts  are  good  if  available.  Many  use  bakers’  yeast  and  buy 
just  what  they  need  each  baking.  There  are  two  advantages  in  using  potato 
yeast — bread  made  from  it  will  not  dry  out  so  quickly  and  there  is  not  the 
danger  that  too  much  will  spoil  the  flavor  of  the  bread. 

THE  SPONGE. 

Sponge  is  made  from  warm  water  or  milk,  yeast  and  flour.  Some  add 
mashed  potatoes.  A pint  of  water  or  milk  should  be  used  for  each  quart  of 
sifted  flour.  The  milk  or  water  (wetting)  should  be  at  blood  heat.  If  milk 
is  used  it  should  be  new  and  first  scalded  to  prevent  souring,  then  cooled  to 
blood  heat.  The  bread  will  be  coarse  if  the  “wetting”  is  too  hot.  When 
water  is  used,  the  addition  of  a tablespoonful  of  either  butter  or  lard  will 
make  the  bread  more  tender.  Bread  made  from  water  will  keep  longer  and 
has  more  of  the  sweet  taste  of  the  wheat  than  that  made  from  milk  but  is  not 
so  tender  and  nutritious.  When  mixed  with  milk  it  requires  more  flour  and 
more  kneading.  In  the  summer  the  sponge  should  not  be  set  before  eight  or 
nine  o’clock  in  the  evening.  The  sponge  may  be  made  with  cold  water  in  hot 
weather.  In  winter  the  batter  should  be  mixed  with  water  or  milk  at  blood 
heat.  Test  it  with  the  finger  and  make  it  as  warm  as  can  be  borne;  stir 
in  the  flour  which  will  cool  it  enough  for  the  yeast;  cover  it  closely  with 
several  layers  of  blanket  (it  is  best  to  have  it  in  a large  jar  or  crock)  and  place 
in  a warm  and  even  temperature.  For  four  ordinary  sized  loaves,  three  pints 
of  wetting  and  a teacup  of  yeast  will  generally  make  enough  sponge.  In 
making  sponge,  the  yeast  should  always  be  added  last  and  the  sponge  should 
not  be  hot  enough  to  scald.  The  temperature  for  rising  should  be  eighty 
or  ninety  degrees.  A more  uniform  heat  can  be  maintained  in  a crock  or 
stone  jar  than  in  tin,  hence  sponge  should  never  be  set  in  tin. 

MIXING  AND  KNEADING. 

Early  the  next  morning  measure  and  sift  the  flour  and  if  the  weather  is 
cold  both  the  flour  and  the  sponge  should  be  warmed.  A large  tin  dish  pan 
with  a tight  fitting  cover  is  excellent  for  mixing  dough.  It  should  be  scalded 
each  time  it  is  used.  Put  the  flour  into  it  and  for  four  loaves  add  two  level 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Mix  well  but  be  careful  not  to  get  the  dough  too  stiff, 
then  turn  out  on  the  bread  board;  knead  without  stopping  until  the  dough 
sticks  to  neither  the  hands  nor  the  board.  This  will  require  from  forty-five 


BREAD  MAKING. 


107 


minutes  to  an  hour.  All  flour  to  be  used  should  be  put  in  at  the  first  molding 
and  it  should  be  kneaded  the  longest  at  this  time.  Use  just  as  little  flour  as 
necessary  to  prevent  sticking  and  remember  that  any  pause  in  the  kneading 
will  injtre  the  bread.  There  are  different  ways  of  kneading  and  no  precise 
directions  can  be  given.  Experience  is  the  best  guide.  When^  through  with 
the  kneading,  form  the  dough  into  a large  loaf  and  again  place  it  in  the  bread 
pan  which  has  been  sprinkled  with  flour.  Either  sprinkle  the  loaf  with  flour 
or  grease  it  over  with  salted  butter  or  lard,  cover  it  closely  and  set  in  a warm 
place  for  from  one  to  two  hours^  or  until  it  rises  to  twice  its  original  size ; then 
knead  down  in  the  pan,  but  bread  should  be  kneaded  but  little  at  the  second 
molding.  Form  into  leaves  and  put  each  into  a well  greased  baking  pan, 
grease  the  tops  of  the  loaves  with  salted  butter  or  lard  and  set  to  rise.  The 
loaves  should  be  molded  perfectly  smooth  with  no  lumps  or  flour  adhering  to 
the  sides.  The  loaves  should  rise  in  the  pans  for  from  fifteen  minutes  to  an 
hour,  much  depending  upon  the  temperature.  Before  it  is  entirely  through 
rising  or  when  it  has  risen  enough  to  seam  or  crack  it  should  be  placed  in  the 
oven.  Bread  should  ferment  but  twice  as  the  third  fermentation  spoils  it. 
This  may  be  remedied  by  adding  a teaspoonful  of  soda  for  each  four  quarts  of 
flour  but  the  bread  will  not  be  so  good  nor  so  healthful.  Salt  should  always 
be  added  to  bread  and  biscuit  but  never  salt  sponge.  A small  quantity  of 
white  sugar  improves  bread  dough,  providing  the  yeast  is  doubtful.  Bread 
should  be  mixed  as  soft  as  it  can  be  handled  but  if  new  process  ” flour 
made  from  spring  wheat  is  used  the  dough  must  be  much  harder  than  when 
winter  wheat  is  used.  Try  to  get  the  loaves  into  The  pans  for  the  last  rising 
rather  soft.  Pans  with  high  sides  are  the  best  for  they  keep  the  bread  from 
spreading  apart  or  running  over  the  sides. 

To  have  good  baking  powder  biscuit  the  dough  must  be  kept  so  soft  that 
you  can  just  get  it  into  the  pan.  They  must  be  baked  quickly  in  a very  hot 
oven.  Never  roll  the  dough  thinner  than  an  inch. 

BAKING. 

A moderate,  uniform  heat  is  very  necessary  in  baking  bread.  If  the  heat 
is  too  great  a hard  crust  is  quickly  formed  before  the  bread  has  expanded 
sufficiently  and  it  will  be  heavy.  If  the  bare  hand  and  arm  can  be  held  in  the 
oven  not  longer  than  enough  to  count  twenty  moderately,  it  is  hot  enough. 
Or,  it  may  be  tested  by  placing  a small  quantity  of  flour  in  the  center  of  the 
oven  on  an  old  piece  of  crockery ; if  it  browns  in  one  minute  the  heat  is  right. 

To  tell  when  the  bread  is  done  break  the  loaves  apart  and  press  gently 
with  the  finger ; if  elastic,  it  is  done,  but  if  clammy,  it  needs  to  be  returned  to 
the  oven.  Or  the  loaves  may  be  tested  with  a broom  splint.  If  nothing  ad- 
heres when  it  is  withdrawn  the  bread  is  done.  It  generally  takes  from  forty- 
five  minutes  to  an  hour  for  the  baking.  As  soon  as  removed  from  the  oven 
the  loaves  should  be  taken  from  the  pans  and  the  entire  outside  greased  with 
melted  butter.  They  should  then  be  tilted  on  edge  to  allow  a free  circulation 
of  air,  though  some  have  success  by  wrapping  the  bread  with  cloth  as  soon  as 
it  is  taken  from  the  oven.  Do  not  place  warm  bread  next  to  wood  or  it  will 
have  a bad  taste.  Lay  a cloth  upon  the  table  and  put  the  bread  on  that.  Pans 
should  be  greased  very  lightly  for  bread.  If  the  bread  is  baked  too  hard  wrap 
it  in  a wet  towel  and  cover  with  another  dry  towel. 

Remember  that  yeast  must  never  be  used  if  sour ; the  temperature  where 


108 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PIOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


the  bread  is  set  to  rise  must  not  be  hot  enough  to  scald ; and  the  temperature 
of  the  oven  must  be  moderate  and  uniform. 

Heat  the  bread  knife  and  you  will  prevent  crumbling  in  cutting  warm 
bread. 

RECIPES  FOR  MAKING  YEAST. 

1.  Starter  Yeast. — In  the  evening  boil  enough  potatoes  to  make  one  pint 
when  mashed  very  fine.  Save  potato  water  and  add  enough  more  water  to 
make  3 pints,  then  add  1 tablespoon ful  salt  and  % cup  sugar  and  1 cake  com- 
pressed yeast,  put  in  the  potatoes  and  stir  well,  cover  and  let  rise  over  night. 
In  the  m.orning  save  1 pint  for  next  baking  or  make  fresh  each  time,  as  desired ; 
mix  stififer  with  flour  than  with  other  yeast. 

2.  Potato  Yeast. — In  the  morning,  boil  and  mash  three  potatoes.  Add  % 
cup  of  sugar  and  % cup  of  flour  and  % tablespoonful  of  salt;  stir  well  to- 
gether. Pour  over  this  mixture  % pint  of  boiling  water  and  stir  it ; then  add 
1/2  pint  of  cold  water  and  stir  that ; then  % cup  of  yeast  and  keep  it  in  a warm 
place.  When  it  is  risen  well  and  rounds  up  to  the  top  of  the  dish  stir  it 
down.  Do  so  several  times  during  the  day.  Then  it  may  be  strained  and 
put  into  a jar  or  jug,  and  kept  in  a cool  place.  The  bread  made  with  this 
may  be  made  with  milk. 

3.  Beer  Yeast. — Eor  1 gallon  of  yeast,  take  12  medium-size  potatoes, 
pare  and  boil  them  until  done.  With  the  water  ofif  these,  scald  3 heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  3 tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  3 scant  tablespoonfuls 
of  salt.  Mix  the  potatoes,  mashed,  with  this,  then  fill  gallon  with  cold  water. 
When  cold  enough,  add  1 cake  of  magic  yeast.  Let  stand  in  cool  place.  Take 
1 pint  of  mixture  for  1 loaf  of  bread. 

4.  Hop  Yeast. — Take  1 quart  of  hops,  boiled  and  strained,  1 cup  of  sugar, 
% cup  of  salt,  V2  cup  of  lard,  2 large  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  4 potatoes 
boiled  and  mashed  and  enough  yeast  to  raise  it.  Let  stand  over  night,  then 
mix  enough  flour  and  corn  meal  to  make  crumbly. 

BAKING  POWDERS. 

1.  Baking  Powder. — Four  ounces  tartaric  acid,  5 ounces  bulk  soda,  1 
pint  flour;  sift  all  together  four  times. 

2.  Baking  Powder. — A scant  pint  of  flour,  % pound  of  soda  and  1 pound 
of  best  cream  of  tartar.  Sift  together  eight  times  through  a flour  sieve.  Fill 
tin  boxes  and  cover  tightly. 

The  lady  sending  this  recipe  says  she  has  used  it  for  years  and  that  it 
never  fails.  It  is  pure  and  the  money  you  save  will  be  a surprise  to  you. 

3.  Baking  Powder. — Six  ounces  cream  of  tartar,  2%  ounce  bi-carbonate 
of  soda,  4V2  ounces  of  flour.  It  is  claimed  this  is  the  recipe  from  which  is 
made  one  of  the  most  popular  brands  of  baking  powder  on  the  market. 

BREAD  RECIPES. 

1.  Bread. — Cook  potatoes  enough  to  make  one  cup  when  mashed;  use 
the  water  the  potatoes  were  boiled  in  and  add  enough  lukewarm  water  to 
make  three  pints;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  liquid  yeast  and  thicken  quite  stiff  with  flour.  Let 
sponge  rise  all  night  in  warm  place ; in  the  morning  add  flour  enough  to  make 
stiff.  Put  in  a warm  place  until  light.  Knead  into  loaves,  using  some  lard 
on  the  molding  board  but  no  flour.  Let  rise  and  bake. 


BREAD  MAKING. 


109 


2.  Whole  Wheat  Bread. — In  the  evening  boil  enough  potatoes  to  make 
one  pint  when  mashed  fine.  Save  three  pints  potato  water  and  add  to  it  the 
potatoes,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt ; add  one  cake  com- 
pressed yeast,  stir  well  and  let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  enough 
warm  water  to  make  required  number  of  loaves ; add  a little  more  salt  and 
a little  lard.  Stiffen  with  whole  wheat  flour  and  add  about  two  quarts  white 
flour,  work  down  twice,  then  mould  into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake  one  hour. 

3.  Entire  Wheat  Bread. — Sift  some  salt  and  three  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder  with  three  cups  entire  wheat  flour,  then  add  two  cups  milk  and  a scant 
one-quarter  cup  of  molasses. 

4.  Salt  Rising  Bread. — In  the  evening  take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
meal,  one-half  spoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  of  a 
raw  potato  scraped  fine,  and  scald  with  enough  water  to  make  quite  a thin 
mush;  set  in  a warm  place  until  morning;  then  take  a pint  of  flour,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  enough  lukewarm  water  to  make  a thick  batter;  then 
add  the  mush  made  the  night  before,  and  stir  briskly  for  a minute  or  two. 
Set  in  warm  place ; when  light,  stir  down  and  let  rise  a second  time.  When 
risen,  put  four  or  five  quarts  of  flour  in  a bread  bowl,  make  a hole  in  the 
center,  and  pour  in  three  pints  of  warm  water.  Then  add  your  rising;  knead, 
and  when  light  mix  in  loaves.  When  risen  to  top  of  pan,  bake.  This  will 
make  three  loaves. 

5.  Oatmeal  Bread. — Scald  one  cup  of  rolled  oats  with  one  pint  of  water 
and  let  stand  until  lukewarm ; add  to  this  a little  salt,  one-half  cup  of  Orleans 
molasses  and  one-half  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  which  has  been  previously 
dissolved  in  one  teacup  of  lukewarm  water.  Add  enough  white  flour  to  make 
a stiff  dough  and  knead  thoroughly.  Let  stand  over  night  and  the  first  thing 
in  the  morning  cut  and  slash  with  a knife  until  the  dough  is  freed  from  air; 
when  risen  again,  form  into  two  loaves,  place  in  baking  pan  and  let  rise  until 
the  size  is  about  double,  and  then  bake. 

6.  Spinster’s  Bread. — Two  eggs,  one  quart  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  shortening,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teacupful  of  yeast  sponge,  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk.  Mix  into  a soft  dough,  let  rise;  mould  into  loaves,  let  rise 
until  light,  then  bake. 

7.  “ Hotel  Berry”  Brown  Bread. — Use  one  and  one-half  pints  of  butter- 
milk, one-half  pint  of  molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of 
lard  and  enough  Graham  flour  to  make  a batter  that  will  just  drop  from  a 
spoon.  Put  in  a very  hot  pan  and  bake  in  a hot  oven. 

Those  who  have  stopped  at  the  Hotel  Berry  at  Athens,  Ohio,  have  eaten 
this  delicious  brown  bread.  We  are  exceedingly  fortunate  in  securing  this 
recipe. 

8.  Boston  Brown  Bread. — Two  cups  of  Graham  flour,  2 cups  of  white 
flour,  1 cup  of  corn  meal,  1 tablespoonful  of  butter,  2 eggs,  1 cup  of  molasses, 
1 box  of  raisins,  1 large  spoonful  of  sugar,  cups  of  buttermilk,  2 teaspoon- 
fuls of  soda.  This  recipe  comes  from  the  Mercer  Sanitarium. 

9.  Old  Fashioned  Brown  Bread. — Put  1 pint  of  yellow  corn  meal  in  a 
mixing  bowl  and  scald  it  with  just  enough  boiling  water  to  moisten  it.  Let 
this  stand  about  10  minutes,  then  add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a soft 
batter.  When  lukewarm  add  % cup  molasses,  % cup  liquid  yeast,  1 tea- 
spoonful soda,  % teaspoonful  salt  and  1 pint  warm  flour.  Stir  well  and  let 
rise  over  night.  Next  morning  stir  it  down  again  and  put  into  well  greased 
tins  to  rise.  Bake  in  a moderate  oven  2 hours. 


no 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PTOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


10.  Steamed  Brown  Bread. — One  cup  of  corn  meal,  1 cup  of  flour,  2 
cups  of  graham  flour,  2 eggs,  1 cup  of  molasses,  1 teaspoon ful  of  soda.  Wet 
this  mixture  with  sweet  milk  to  make  a thin  batter,  steam  3 hours. 

11.  Graham  Bread. — One  cup  of  potato  yeast  sponge,  3 (iron)  table- 
spoonfuls of  molasses,  1 tablespoonful  of  butter,  1 teaspoonful  of  salt, 
cups  of  graham  flour,  1%  cups  of  white  flour.  Stir  well  together  at  night; 
let  stand  until  morning,  or  until  light  and  then  put  in  a pan  and  let  rise 
again ; then  bake  45  minutes. 

13.  Raised  Graham  Bread. — To  3 pints  of  light  bread  sponge  add  % 
cup  melted  butter  or  lard,  2 tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  enough  graham  flour 
to  make  a thick  batter.  Put  into  small  greased  tins,  let  rise  and  bake  slowly. 
This  is  enough  for  three  loaves. 

13.  Steamed  Graham  Bread. — To  2 cups  of  buttermilk  add  2 large  table- 
spoonfuls sugar,  1 teaspoonful  soda,  3 cups  flour  and  a pinch  of  salt;  steam 
lf/2  hours  and  bake  until  light  brown.  If  wished,  a little  less  graham  flour 
may  be  used  and  a little  white  flour  added. 

14.  Corn  Bread. — One  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1 egg,  1 teaspoonful  of 
salt,  1 tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  or  lard,  2 cups  of  buttermilk,  1 level 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a little  of  the  milk ; % cup  of  flour.  Thicken 
with  meal  and  bake  in  a greased  pan. 

15.  Katahdin  Corn  Bread. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sweet  milk,  1 or  2 
eggs,  3 scant  cups  of  flour,  1^4  cups  of  cornmeal  (granulated)  ; 1 large  spoon- 
ful of  granulated  sugar,  3 heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1% 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  4 tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Beat  egg  well,  stir  in  the 
milk ; sift  flour,  baking  powder,  meal,  salt  and  sugar  together,  and  stir 
slowly  in  egg  and  milk;  add  melted  butter  and  beat  well.  Bake  % hour  in 
hot  oven. 

16.  Fried  Bread. — Cut  dry  bread  into  small  pieces  and  moisten  with  a 
littje  hot  water.  Take  4 eggs  for  about  3 pints  of  bread.  Beat  eggs  and  stir 
in  bread.  Fry  in  butter  or  lard.  Very  nice  when  eaten  with  syrup. 

17.  Currant  Bread. — Take  bread  dough  when  ready  for  pans.  For  each 
loaf  wanted  take  % box  of  currants,  1 cup  of  sugar  and  lard  the  size  of  an 
egg.  Use  more  flour  if  needed  to  make  stifif.  Mix  into  loaves  and  let  rise 
until  light.  Bake  in  a slow  oven  from  1 to  1^4:  hours. 

18.  Cornish  Bread. — One  cup  of  sugar  and  1 tablespoonful  of  lard ; pour 
a cup  of  boiling  water  over  a pinch  of  saffron  and  when  a little  cool  strain  and 
pour  into  the  bread  sponge ; wash  % cup  of  currants  and  add  to  the  mixture ; 
make  as  other  bread.  This  is  for  four  loaves. 

19.  Gingerbread. — One  cup  molasses,  1 cup  butter  or  % cup  each  of 
butter  and  lard,  1 cup  sour  milk,  1 good  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  a little  more, 

1 teaspoonful  ginger,  1 egg,  flour  enough  to  make  a nice  batter;  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

20.  Soft  Gingerbread. — One  cup  of  sour  milk  to  3 cups  of  sugar,  1 cup 
molasses,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  1 teaspoonful  of  ginger,  1 teaspoonful  of 
baking  soda,  1 tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  pinch  of  salt, 

2 cups  of  flour;  mix  molasses,  sugar  and  milk;  sift  flour  and  .spices  together; 
dissolve  soda  in  vinegar;  stir  the  lard  in  boiling  hot  at  the  last. 

21.  Eggless  Gingerbread. — One-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1%  cups  of 
molasses,  y>  cup  sweet  milk,  % cup  butter,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  1 teaspoon- 
ful allspice,  % teaspoonful  of  ginger,  3 cups  of  flour. 


LIGHT  BREADS,  ETC. 


Ill 


LIGHT  BREADS. 

(Including  Rolls,  Biscuits,  Sandwiches,  Cookies,  Fritters,  Doughnuts,  Gems, 
Muffins,  Waffles,  Corn  Cake,  Buns,  Dumplings,  Crullers,  Jumbles,  Toasts. 
Crackers,  Rusks,  Scotch  Scones,  Griddle  Cakes,  Etc.) 


“O,  weary  mothers  mixing  dough, 

Don’t  you  wish  that  food  would  grow? 

Your  lips  would  smile  I know  to  see 
A cookie  bush  or  a pancake  tree.” 

ROLLS. 

1.  Rolls. — Scald  1 pint  of  sweet  milk  and  stir  into  it  a lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  and  V2  cup  of  sugar;  when  cool  stir  into  this  two  quarts 
of  flour,  a small  cup  of  good  yeast  and  1 teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  set  to  rise 
over  night  or  until  it  is  very  light;  then  knead  and  let  rise  again;  cut  the 
rolls  Yo  inch  thick;  shape  round;  spread  over  each  a little  melted  butter  and 
double^over  so  the  roll  is  a half  circle.  Place  close  in  the  pan ; let  rise  again 
very  light  and  bake. 

2.  Parker  House  Rolls. — Scald  1 pint  of  milk  and  when  lukewarm  put 
in  Y2  cup  of  butter  or  lard,  Y2  cup  of  sugar,  and  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
When  cool,  thicken  as  bread  sponge  and  put  in  % of  a cake  of  yeast.  Let 
rise  over  night;  then  mix  but  do  not  make  it  as  thick  as  bread  dough;  let  rise 
again ; then  knead  and  roll  in  sheets ; cut  with  biscuit  cutter ; butter  the  sur- 
face and  fold;  let  rise  and  bake. 

3.  Astor  House  Rolls. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk  boiled,  and  while  still 
warm  put  in  a lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a little  salt,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar  and  Y2  cake  of  compressed  yeast;  when  light  mold  15  minutes, 
let  rise  again,  roll  out  and  cut  in  round  cakes;  spread  each  half  with  butter 
and  fold  over  on  the  other  half ; put  into  pans  and  when  light  bake  in  a quick 
oven. 

4.  Cinnamon  Roll. — Take  a small  loaf  of  light  bread  dough,  1 table- 
spoonful of  lard,  sweeten,  roll  thin,  spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon,  and  roll  up  in  loaf;  when  light,  glaze  with  beaten  egg.  Bake 
in  a moderate  oven. 

5.  French  Rolls. — Rub  2 ounces  of  butter  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs  into  one  pound  of  flour;  add  a tablespoonful  of  good  yeast,  a little 
salt  and  enough  milk  to  make  a stiff  dough ; cover  and  set  in  a warm  place 
till  light;  cut  into  rolls  and  dip  the  edges  into  melted  butter  to  keep  them 
from  sticking.  Bake  in  a quick  oven. 

BISCUITS. 

“ Keen  appetites  and  quick  digestion  wait  on  you  and  yours.” 

1.  Soda  Biscuit. — Sift  a level  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  % teaspoonful  of 
salt  with  1 quart  of  flour  and  rub  into  it  a piece  of  lard  about  the  size  of  a 
small  egg  and  then  add  a pint  of  sour  milk.  Bake  in  a quick  oven. 

2.  Breakfast  Biscuit. — Take  1 pint  of  sweet  milk,  I/4  cup  melted  lard  or 
butter,  a little  salt,  1 tablespoonful  baking  powder  and  flour  enough  for  a 
stiff  batter.  Drop  from  the  spoon  into  greased  tin  and  bake  in  a hot  oven. 


112 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


3.  Southern  Beaten  Biscuit. — One  quart  of  flour,  a pinch  of  soda  the 
size  of  a pea,  % cup  of  sweet  milk,  % cup  of  ice  water,  1 teaspoonful  of  salt, 
2 heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  lard ; mix  to  a stiff  dough  and  beat  until  it  blisters 
and  pops.  The  success  depends  upon  the  length  of  time  it  is  beaten. 

4.  Baking  Powder  Biscuit. — One  quart  of  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  together,  1 tablespoonful  of  lard, 
thoroughly  rubbed  into  the  flour.  Mix  as  soft  as  can  be  handled,  with  sweet 
milk.  Roll  into  sheets  % of  an  inch  thick;  cut  with  small  biscuit  cutter  and 
bake  in  hot  oven  about  15  minutes. 

SANDWICHES. 

‘‘  Bad  dinners  go  hand  in  hand  with  total  depravity,  while  a properly  fed  man  is 

already  half  saved.” 

1.  Ham  Sandwiches. — Put  2 small  pickles  and  1 pound  of  cold  boiled 
ham  through  a meat  cutter;  add  a dash  of  pepper,  a tablespoonful  of  mixed 
mustard  and  2 tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  mix  thoroughly,  spread  on 
thin  slices  of  buttered  bread,  lay  over  top  slices  and  cut  into  squares  or  fancy 
shapes. 

2.  Chicken  Sandwiches. — Take  the  meat  of  one  well  cooked  and  sea- 
soned chicken  and  chop  it  very  fine.  Melt  2 tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
frying  pan  or  skillet  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble  add  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
stir  and  cook — not  brown ; then  add  2 cups  of  sweet  milk.  After  stirring  until 
smooth  and  hot,  add  the  chicken  and  % tablespoonful  of  curry  powder  and 
2 dashes  of  paprika  (quantity  depending  on  size  of  chicken).  After  all  is 
well  warmed,  set  aside  to  cool,  then  spread  thick  on  a slice  of  buttered  bread; 
over  this  sprinkle  a teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  nuts,  then  lay  on  top 
another  slice  of  bread. 

3.  Apple  and  Celery  Sandwiches. — Chop  very  fine  % dozen  of  the  small 
inside  stalks  of  celery  and  2 large  tart  apples  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt 
and  then  spread  between  thinly  cut  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

4.  Club  Sandwiches. — Cut  three  thin  slices  of  bread  and  then  toast  and 
butter  them ; place  a lettuce  leaf  on  the  lower  slice,  on  top  of  this  a piece  of 
boneless  cooked  chicken,  well  seasoned;  then  another  slice  of  buttered  toast; 
on  top  of  that  another  lettuce  leaf,  topped  with  thin  slices  of  hot  breakfast 
bacon,  and  on  this  the  third  slice  of  toast ; on  top  of  this  last  slice  of  bread 
day  strips  of  pickle  cut  lengthwise ; the  bread  and  bacon  should  both  be  hot. 

5.  Nut  Sandwiches. — Take  some  chopped,  roasted  and  salted  peanuts ; 
mix  with  mayonnaise,  to  spread  easily ; or,  very  finely  chopped  English  wal- 
nuts may  be  used  instead  of  the  peanuts.  Spread  on  buttered  whole  wheat 
bread. 

6.  Sweet  Sandwiches. — Blanch  and  chop  very  fine  1 lb.  of  almonds  and 
add  1 tablespoonful  of  orange  flower  water  or  rose  water,  the  beaten  white 
of  an  egg,  1 tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Mix  and  spread  on  buttered  bread. 

7.  Salmon  Sandwiches. — Chop  fine  a bit  of  salmon  and  sliced  cucum- 
ber pickle,  pour  a little  melted  butter  over  it,  dust  with  paprika  and  salt  and 
spread  on  buttered  bread. 

8.  Nut  and  Cheese  Sandwich. — Take  equal  parts  of  English  walnuts 
(pounded  to  a meal)  and  grated  cheese  and  moisten  with  thick  cream.  Sea- 
son to  taste  and  spread  on  bread. 

9.  French  Sandwiches. — Mash  2 hard  boiled  eggs  very  fine  to  a paste; 


LIGHT  BREADS,  ETC. 


113 


add  1 Neufchatel  cheese  and  mash  together;  then  add  a dash  of  cayenne 
pepper,  a tablespoonful  of  onion  juice  and  3 Spanish  peppers. 

10.  Pimentos. — Make  the  following  mayonnaise  dressing : 1 egg,  well 
beaten;  add  sugar  and  salt  to  taste,  a lump  of  butter,  1 tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  some  vinegar;  boil  until  it  thickens;  then  beat  and  when  cold  add  a 
little  sweet  cream.  Cut  the  pimentos  in  small  bits,  add  mayonnaise  and  mix 
all  together  and  spread  on  buttered  bread.  Cut  in  any  form  desired. 

11.  Egg  Sandwiches. — Grate  hard  boiled  eggs  upon  two  slices  of  but- 
tered bread,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and  put  the  two  slices  of  bread 
together. 

COOKIES. 

Now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite,  and  health  on  both. — Shakespeare. 

1.  Crisp  Chocolate  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  butter,  1 egg, 
1 cup  of  sour  cream,  1 teaspoonful  of  soda ; mix  with  flour  in  soft  dough ; add 
either  cocoa  or  chocolate,  according  to  taste.  Roll  thin  and  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

2.  Fruit  Cookies. — Beat  three  eggs,  light;  add  IV2  cups  of  sugar,  1 cup 
of  butter,  1 cup  of  molasses,  1 cup  of  sweet  milk,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  1 
teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  1 cup  of  seeded  raisins  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a stiff  dough. 

3.  Crumb  Cakes. — Take  three-fourths  pint  of  lard,  a pinch  of  salt,  1 
pint  of  sugar,  a little  cinnamon,  3 pints  of  cake  crumbs,  1 pint  of  Orleans 
molasses,  1 pint  of  cold  water,  1 teaspoonful  of  soda  and  enough  flour  to  roll. 

4.  Taylor  Cakes. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  molasses,  1 cup  of  sour 
cream,  1 teaspoonful  of  soda,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  3 eggs,  spices  to 
taste,  4 cups  of  flour;  drop  on  pan  with  spoon;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake. 

5.  Ginger  Drop  Cakes. — Take  one  cup  each  of  molasses,  sugar,  short- 
ening and  sour  milk ; 3 eggs ; 1 teaspoonful  each  of  soda,  ginger,  cinnamon 
and  cloves ; flour  enough  to  make  a stiff  batter.  Bake  in  gem  pans. 

6.  Mother’s  Caraway  Cookies. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  butter,  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  1 egg,  1 teaspoon  very  full  of  soda  dissolved  in  2 
spoonfuls  of  milk.  Add  a handful  of  caraway  seed.  Knead  hard  as  possible ; 
roll  thin  and  bake.  Good  without  the  caraway  and  will  keep  a month  if  the 
children  will  consent. 

7.  Oatmeal  Cookies. — One  cup  of  shortening,  lard  and  butter;  2 eggs; 
1%  cups  of  sugar;  1 teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a little  water,  just 
enough  to  dissolve  the  soda;  1 teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  6 tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  milk ; 1 cup  of  seeded  raisins,  chopped ; 3 cups  of  oatmeal,  or  rolled  oats ; 
1 cup  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a soft  dough. 

8.  Scotch  Cookies. — Beat  1 cup  of  butter  with  2 cups  of  sugar;  add  % 
cup  of  milk  in  which  has  been  dissolved  1 teaspoonful  of  soda;  beat  2 eggs — 
whites  and  yolks — separately ; mix  2 teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  with  % 
lb.  of  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon;  mix  together,  adding  more 
flour  from  time  to  time ; roll  and  bake  quickly. 

9.  Nut  Cookies. — Six  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  8 tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  4 tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  2 eggs,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
and  flour  to  thicken.  Stir  the  butter  into  the  sugar ; beat  eggs  light,  and  add 
them  to  butter  and  sugar ; stir  well ; then  add  milk.  Sift  the  powder  with  a 

2—8 


114 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


little  of  the  flour  and  then  add  a good  glass  of  nut  meats ; add  enough  flour  to 
roll  well. 

10.  Hermits. — Take  one  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1 cup  of 
butter,  1 cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1 cup  of  chopped  nuts,  1 teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon and  1 teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  cup  of  hot  water.  Then  flour 
enough  to  mix  like  fruit  cake.  Drop  in  buttered  pans  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

11.  Molasses  Cookies. — One  cup  of  molasses,  1 teaspoonful  of  soda 
beaten  in  2 cups  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  butter,  % cup  of  sour  cream,  3 well  beaten 
eggs,  1 teaspoonful  of  ginger,  1 teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  % teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  flour  to  make  soft  dough;  bake  in  a quick  oven. 

12.  Drop  Ginger  Cakes. — Take  one  cup  of  sugar,  3 cups  of  flour,  1 cup 
of  molasses,  1 cup  of  boiling  water,  % cup  of  butter,  2 eggs,  IV2  teaspoonfuls 
of  soda,  1 teaspoonful  of  ginger,  % teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  a little 
grated  nutmeg. 

13.  Ginger  Snaps. — One  cup  each  of  sugar,  molasses  and  butter,  boiled 
together;  when  cool  add  1 egg,  1 teaspoonful  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and 
soda ; flour  to  make  a soft  dough ; roll  very  thin  and  bake  in  a quick  oven. 

14.  Ginger  Cookies. — (Without  eggs  or  butter.)  One-half  pint  of  warm 
water,  1 pint  of  molasses,  1 cup  of  lard,  1 scant  tablespoonful  of  soda,  1 table- 
spoonful of  ginger,  % teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  1 cup  of  sugar;  put  one- 
half  of  the  sugar  in  cookies  and  use  rest  to  sprinkle  on  top  before  baking. 

15.  Boston  Cookies. — Cream  one  cup  of  butter  with  1%  cups  of  sugar, 
add  3 eggs,  dissolve  1 teaspoonful  of  soda  in  1%  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water 
and  add  to  the  mixture;  then  to  cups  of  flour  add  1 teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, Vo  teaspoonful  salt ; add  part  of  flour  to  mixture,  then  1 cup  of  chopped 
walnuts,  Yo  cup  of  raisins  and  % cup  of  currants ; then  add  rest  of  flour ; drop 
from  a spoon  on  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven. 

16.  Lemon  Drops. — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  2 ounces  or  1 table- 
spoonful butter,  % cup  sweet  milk,  2 cups  flour,  2 eggs,  a pinch  of  salt ; 
flavor  with  lemon  and  drop  on  buttered  pan. 

17.  Rocks. — One  cup  of  butter,  2 cups  of  brown  sugar,  1 teaspoonful 
of  baking  soda,  % cup  of  hot  water,  3 eggs  beaten  together,  IV2  cups  of  raisins 
or  currants,  1%  cups  of  English  walnuts,  3 cups  of  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon ; drop  on  pans  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

18.  Peanut  Cookies. — One-half  cup  of  lard,  2 cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  1 
cup  of  milk,  2 eggs,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1 cup  of  ground  peanuts, 
flour  enough  to  make  a good  cake  batter ; roll  thin ; cut  into  cookies ; bake 
in  quick  oven. 

19.  Cream  Cookies. — Two  eggs,  1 cup  sour  cream,  1 cup  butter,  2 cups 
sugar,  2 level  teaspoonfuls  soda. 

20.  Lemon  Cookies. — Two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  1 cup  lard,  1 tea- 
spoonful salt,  1 pint  milk,  5 cents  worth  oil  of  lemon,  3 cents  worth  bakers’ 
ammonia  dissolved  in  the  milk.  Delicious. 

21.  Cornstarch  Cookies. — Two  teacups  sugar,  1 teacup  butter,  1 teacup 
sour  cream,  1 teacup  cornstarch,  2 eggs,  1 teaspoonful  soda,  flour  sufficient 
to  thicken ; drop  from  spoon  on  greased  tins  and  bake. 

22.  Cookies. — Two  eggs,  1 cup  sour  cream,  1 cup  butter,  2 cups  sugar, 

2 teaspoonfuls  soda,  and  sufficient  flour  to  roll  out. 

23.  Oatmeal  Macaroons. — Take  2%  cups  oatmeal,  1 cup  brown  sugar,  1 ' 
teaspoonful  baking  powder,  1 even  teaspoonful  butter,  1 teaspoon ful  vanilla. 


LIGHT  BREADS,  ETC. 


115 


2 eggs,  beaten  separately,  putting  in  the  well  beaten  whites  last.  Invert  a 
heated  granite  baking  pan  and  with  a fork  drop  the  mixture  on  the  bottom 
about  the  size  of  a walnut  and  allow  room  to  spread.  Bake  quickly  in  hot 
oven. 

24.  Mince  Crisp  Cookies. — One  cup  butter,  2 cups  sugar,  3 well-beaten 
eggs,  large  spoonful  of  milk,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  enough  flour 
to  make  quite  stiff  dough;  flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg.  Brush  tops  with 
milk  and  sugar. 

25.  Cookies  (Mother  B’s). — Two  eggs,  2 cups  granulated  sugar,  % 
cup  butter,  pinch  of  salt;  mix;  1 teaspoonful  soda  in  1/2  cup  sour  milk;  add' 
flour  to  make  a batter  just  thick  enough  to  roll  rather  thin. 

FRITTERS. 

1.  Potato  Fritters. — One  pint  of  boiled  and  mashed  potato,  % cup  of 
hot  milk,  3 tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  3 spoonfuls  of  sugar,  2 eggs,  1 teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  a little  nutmeg.  x\dd  the  milk,  butter,  sugar  and  seasoning  to  the 
mashed  potato,  and  then  add  the  eggs  well  beaten ; stir  until  very  smooth 
and  light,  spread  about  i/o  inch  deep  on  a buttered  dish  and  set  away  to 
cool;  when  cold,  cut  into  squares,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  brown  in  boiling  fat;  serve  immediately. 

2.  Corn  Fritters. — One  pint  of  cooked  sweet  corn,  cut  from  cob,  or 
canned  corn  may  be  used,  % cup  sweet  milk,  1 well  beaten  egg,  1 teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  1 teaspoonful  of  sugar,  1 small  cup  of  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Drop  in  hot  lard  or  butter,  and  fry  a nice  brown. 

3.  Fried  Cream  Fritters. — One-half  cup  sugar,  1 quart  sweet  milk,  1 cup 
flour ; take  IV2  pints  of  milk  and  put  on  stove  with  sugar ; wet  the  flour  with  the 
remainder  of  milk,  and  cook  until  quite  thick.  Pour  into  jelly  pans  that 
have  been  dipped  in  cold  water,  let  stand  until  cold,  then  cut  in  2-inch  squares, 
dip  in  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  as  for  doughnuts,  a 
light  brown.  Serve  hot  with  maple  syrup. 

4.  Oyster  Fritters. — Take  as  many  oysters  as  you  want  fritters,  and 
wipe  them  dry.  Make  a batter  as  follows : one  egg,  well  beaten ; add  to  it 
one  cup  of  milk,  % teaspoonful  of  salt,  1 pint  of  flour,  and  1 heaping  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder.  Dip  oysters  one  by  one  in  the  batter  and  when  the 
fat  is  smoking  hot,  drop  them  in  and  fry  brown.  Serve  hot. 

5.  Rice  Cakes. — One  large  cup  of  boiling  rice,  3 eggs  beaten  separately, 
1 level  tablespoonful  sugar,  a little  salt;  beat  thoroughly,  and  drop  from  a 
spoon  into  a well  buttered  hot  skillet. 

G.  Corn  Fritters  or  Mock  Oysters. — Grate  the  corn  from  % dozen  ears 
of  sweet  corn  or  cut  it  from  the  cobs  and  run  through  a vegetable  chopper ; add 

3 tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk  or  cream,  1 teaspoonful  salt,  1 egg,  1 teacup 
flour.  Drop  in  hot  lard  and  brown  both  sides.  Make  the  size  of  an  oyster. 
Make  a plenty  for  they  will  all  be  eaten. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

“ The  true  essentials  of  a feast  are  only  fun  and  feed.” — O.  W.  Holmes, 

1.  Doughnuts. — 

“ One  cup  of  sugar,'  one  cup  of  milk, 

Two  eggs  beaten  fine  as  silk. 

Salt  and  nutmeg  (lemon  will  do), 

Of  baking  powder  teaspoons  two, 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


11  (5 

Lightly  stir  the  flour  in, 

Roll  on  pie  board  not  too  thin; 

Cut  in  diamonds,  twist  or  rings. 

Drop  with  care  the  doughy  things 
Into  fat  that  briskly  swells 
Evenly  the  spongy  cells ; 

Watch  with  care  the  time  for  turning. 

Fry  them  brown  just  short  of  burning; 

Roll  in  sugar,  serve  when  cool. 

Price  a quarter  for  this  rule.” 

— Hazel  A.  Marquis. 

2.  Improved  Fat  for  Frying  Doughnuts,  Croquettes,  Etc. — Fry  out  care- 
fully 2%  Ihs.  of  beef  suet,  add  1 lb.  of  fresh  lard.  After  using,  strain  and  put 
in  small  bucket  and  cover;  may  be  used  a number  of  times. 

3.  Raised  Doughnuts. — Scald  1 pint  of  milk  and  pour  over  % cup  of 
lard  and  1 cup  of  sugar.  Add  1 cup  of  yeast  and  flour  to  make  a stiff  batter 
and  let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  1 egg  and  work  in  flour  the 
same  as  mixing  bread.  Let  the  dough  rise,  cut  out  doughnuts,  rise  again 
and  fry. 

4.  Snow  Balls. — Two  eggs,  1 cup  sugar,  4 tablespoonfuls  milk,  1 tea- 
spoonful cream  of  tartar,  % teaspoonful  soda,  flour  enough  to  roll  into  balls; 
fry  in  hot  lard,  dip  in  white  of  egg,  and  roll  in  fine  white  sugar. 

5.  Fried  Cakes. — One  egg,  1 cup  sugar,  2 cups  sour  milk,  ly^  teaspoon- 
fuls lard,  2 teaspoonfuls  soda. 

6.  Doughnuts  (Fine). — Two  eggs,  1 cup  sugar,  1 cup  sour  milk,  good 
pinch  of  nutmeg,  level  teaspoonful  soda  in  milk,  butter  almost  as  large  as 
walnut,  pinch  of  salt,  flour  to  roll  % inch  thick. 

GEMS. 

1.  Graham  Gems. — One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  1 egg,  3 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  a little  salt  and  2^2  cups  of 
graham  flour.  Bake  slowly  in  gem  pans. 

2.  Corn  Gems. — One  cup  of  corn  meal,  2 cups  of  flour,  1 cup  of  sweet 
milk,  % cup  of  sugar,  % cup  of  butter,  2 eggs,  4 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
a pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  a quick  oven. 

3.  Wheat  Gems. — Three  cups  flour,  3 tablespoonfuls  sugar,  3 teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder;  stir  well;  add  1 well-beaten  egg,  4 tablespoonfuls  melted 
lard,  11/2  cups  of  sweet  milk  or  water. 

MUFFINS. 

1.  Muffins. — Two  eggs,  a pinch  of  salt,  2 tablespoonfuls  melted  butter, 
2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1 cup  milk,  enough  flour  to  make  a stiff  dough ; 
drop  in  muffin  tins ; bake  in  quick  oven. 

2.  Corn  Muffins. — One-half  cup  of  butter  or  lard,  2 eggs,  % cup  of  sugar, 
1 cup  of  sweet  milk,  2 cups  of  sifted  flour,  1 cup  of  corn  meal,  4 teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  % teaspoonful  of  salt ; beat  thoroughly  and  bake  quickly. 

' WAFFLES. 

1.  Waffles. — Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  1 quart  of  buttermilk,  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a walnut,  pinch  of  salt,  1 teaspoonful  of  baking  soda, 
flour  to  thicken.  Mix  buttermilk,  salt,  melted  butter  and  yolks;  then  add 


LIGHT  BREADS,  ETC. 


IVi 


soda  which  has  been  moistened  with  a little  of  the  buttermilk ; then  add  flour, 
and  lastly  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  waffle  irons. 

CORN  DODGERS— CORN  PONE— CORN  CAKE. 

1.  Corn  Dodgers. — Place  2 cups  of  corn  meal  in  a bowl  and  pour  over  it 
enough  boiling  water  to  scald  and  moisten  it.  Stir  it  while  pouring  the 
water  on;  while  hot  add  1 tablespoonful  of  shortening;  when  cold  add  1 
beaten  egg,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  1 teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  in  gem 
pans  or  on  the  griddle. 

2.  Corn  Cake. — Two  eggs  beaten  light;  add  1 cup  sugar,  cup  butter; 
beat  light ; add  1 cup  milk ; sift  together  2 cups  cornmeal,  1 cup  flour,  3 tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder  and  a small  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  to  mixture 
and  bake  in  a moderate  oven. 

3.  Corn  Pone. — Two  eggs,  Vo  cup  of  shortening,  cups  of  sugar,  1 
cup  of  corn  meal,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  and  milk  to  make  light  cake 
batter.  Bake  in  slow  oven. 

BUNS. 

1.  Currant  Buns. — Beat  1 egg  into  a cup  and  fill  with  sweet  milk ; mix 
with  it  1/2  cup  of  yeast,  1 cup  of  sugar,  1/2  cup  of  butter,  enough  flour  to 
make  a soft  dough.  Let  rise  until  very  light ; then  mold  currants  into  buns ; 
let  rise  a second  time  in  pan;  before  baking  glaze  with  a little  molasses  or 
sugar  and  milk. 

2.  Buns  That  Boys  Like. — To  about  as  much  light  bread  dough  as  for 
a loaf  of  bread,  at  the  stage  that  it  is  light  and  ready  for  the  pans,  add  % 
cup  of  lard  or  butter,  Vo  cup  of  sugar,  1 egg,  % pint  of  warm  water.  Mix 
all  to  a smooth  paste ; thicken  with  flour ; let  rise ; form  into  small  biscuits ; 
let  rise  and  bake.  This  brings  them  just  right  for  the  evening  meal ; if 
wanted  for  midday  dinner,  use  1 quart  of  sponge  in  place  of  the  dough. 

DUMPLINGS. 

1.  Drop  Dumplings. — One  small  cup  of  sweet  milk  or  water,  1 egg,  1 
teaspoon  fill  of  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make  drop  batter.  Very  good 
for  meat  stews  of  any  kind. 

2.  Always  Light  Dumplings. — To  each  cup  of  sifted  flour,  sift  in  1 heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  salt  to  taste ; wet  with  cold  water  and  drop 
onto  meat  and  bones ; cover  the  kettle  and  cook  20  minutes. 

3.  Chicken  Dumplings. — One  cup  sweet  milk,  1 egg  well  beaten,  1 pint 
sifted  flour,  % teaspoonful  of  salt,  1 tablespoonful  of  baking  powder;  stir  all 
well  together  and  drop  the  batter,  a spoonful  at  a time,  into  chicken  or  beef 
broth  just  checked  from  boiling.  Let  boil  15  minutes.  These  dumplings 
are  very  nice. 

CRULLERS. 

1.  Crullers. — Dissolve  1 teaspoonful  of  Soda  in  4 tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
or  leave  out  one' of  milk  and  substitute  1 of  wine.  Strain  it  into  % pint  of 
flour  and  4 tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  or  lard.  Beat  4 eggs  with  G 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  work  them  into  the  rest  of  the  ingredients; 
add  flour  to  make  stifif  enough  to  roll  out,  then  cut  and  fry  in  hot  lard ; flavor 
with  grated  nutmeg.  ^ 


118 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


JUMBLES. 

1.  Jumbles. — One  cup  of  butter,  2 cups  of  sugar,  % cup  of  sour  cream, 
3 eggs,  1 teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a little  nutmeg;  flour  to  make  soft  dough. 
Bake  quickly. 

2.  Favorite  Jumbles. — One  cup  of  butter,  2 cups  of  sugar,  1 cup  of 
sweet  milk,  4 cups  of  flour,  3 eggs  and  3 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  drop  on  buttered  tins  with  a large  spoon ; sprinkle  with  sugar 
before  baking. 

TOASTS. 

1.  American  Toast. — To  1 egg  thoroughly  beaten,  add  a little  salt  and 
1 cup  of  sweet  milk.  Slice  light  bread  and  dip  into  the  mixture,  allowing 
each  slice  to  absorb  some  of  the  milk;  then  brown  on  a hot  buttered  griddle. 
Serve  very  hot. 

2.  Good  Toast. — Spread  thin  slices  of  light  bread  with  butter,  then  cover 
with  sugar;  grate  a little  nutmeg  and  put  a tablespoonful  of  cream  on  each 
slice ; brown  in  the  oven ; serve  hot. 

3.  Dry  Beef  Toast. — One-half  cup  chopped  beef  picked  in  fragments  and 
1 heaping  tablespoonful  butter;  put  in  saucepan  and  when  hot  add  2 cups 
sweet  milk ; let  it  boil,  then  put  in  3 well  beaten  eggs  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Toast  thin  slices  of  bread,  dip  them  in  hot  salted  water,  arrange  on  a platter 
and  pour  over  them  the  beef  gravy.  Horseradish  may  be  served  with  this, 
or  apple  jelly,  or  currant  jam. 


CRACKERS. 

1.  Graham  Crackers. — Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  % cup 
brown  sugar,  % cup  of  shortening,  1 quart  of  graham  flour,  salt  to  taste.  Wet 
with  milk  ; roll  into  thin  cakes,  using  white  flour  for  rolling  out. 

RUSKS. 

1.  Children’s  Rusks. — Make  soft  sponge  of  1 pint  of  milk,  % cake  of 
compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water,  and  sifted  flour.  Let  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  add  % cup  of  melted  butter,  1 teaspoonful  of  soda, 
1 egg  and  a little  salt.  Flavor  with  cinnamon.  Sift  in  flour  enough  to  make  a 
firm  dough.  Mold  into  rolls,  place  in  pans,  let  rise  again  and  bake  in  a quick 
oven.  When  done,  dampen  the  tips  slightly  and  sift  on  some  powdered  sugar. 

SCOTCH  SCONES  AND  APPLE  KOKER. 

1.  Scotch  Scones. — Sift  together  1 quart  of  flour,  % teaspoonful  of  salt, 
1 teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  2 heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  rub  in 
1 large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  cold ; add  2 beaten  eggs  and  nearly  i/o  pint  of 
sweet  milk;  mix  into  smooth  dough;  knead  quickly  and  roll  out  to  % of  an 
inch  in  thickness;  cut  out  with  knife  into  squares  about  the  size  of  soda 
crackers ; fold  each  cornerwise,  to  form  triangles ; place  in  pan  and  brush 
over  with  egg  and  milk  ; bake  10  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

2.  Apple  Koker. — To  1 beaten  egg  add  1 cup  of  sweet  milk  and  one 
tablespooriful  melted  butter;  thicken  with  2 heaping  cups  flour  with  2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking  powder;  spread  on  pans;  put  quartered  apples  thick  over 
the  top  and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Put  on  a few  small 
bits  of  butter  and  bake.  Serve  warm  with  cream. 


CAKE  MAKING. 


119 


GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

1.  Griddle  Cakes. — One  quart  of  sour  milk,  a pinch  of  salt,  1 egg,  1 
teaspoonful  soda  and  flour  to  make  of  right  thickness. 

2.  Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes. — Take  one  pint  of  either  sour  milk  or  but- 
termilk, one  pint  of  corn  meal,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
soda.  Bake  on  a griddle. 

3.  Graham  Griddle  Cakes. — Half  a pint  of  corn  meal,  half  a pint  of  flour, 
one  pint  of  Graham  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  sugar,  half  a teaspoonful 
salt,  one  egg,  one  pint  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  soda. 

4.  Buckwheat  Cakes. — One  quart  of  lukewarm  water,  3 tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  3 tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal,  1 heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  % cake 
of  yeast  or  I/2  cup  of  liquid  yeast,  and  buckwheat  to  make  a batter  thin 
enough  to  pour.  Let  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  stir  well  and  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  and  % teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water; 
bake  on  hot  griddle.  Save  enough  batter  to  raise  another  mixing  instead 
of  using  new  batter. 

5.  Egg  Pancakes. — Two  cups  of  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of  sugar,  % tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder,  2 eggs  well  beaten,  enough  milk  to  make  a thin 
batter.  Bake  on  a hot  griddle. 

6.  Potato  Cakes. — Two  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  % cup  of  flour,  % 
cup  of  milk,  3 eggs,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste ; stir  the  beaten  yolks  and  milk  into  the  potato,  then  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  sifted  together;  beat  thoroughly,  and  lastly  fold  in  the  well  beaten 
whites ; bake  on  a well  buttered  griddle. 


CAKE  MAKING. 

(Including  Recipes  and  Directions  for  Making  All  Kinds  of  Cakes,  Frostings, 

Icings  and  Fillings.) 

Aye,  to  the  leavening,  but  here’s  yet  in  the  word  hereafter  the  kneading,  the  making 
of  the  cake,  the  heating  of  the  oven,  and  the  baking.  Nay,  you  must  stay  the  cooling, 
too,  or  you  may  chance  to  burn  your  mouth. — Shakespeare. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS. 

Only  the  best  of  materials  should  be  used  for  cake.  The  pans  for  baking 
should  be  perfectly  clean  and  free  from  odor  and  should  not  be  used  for  any 
other  purpose. 

The  butter  should  not  be  oily  but  just  soft  enough  to  cream  well  with 
sugar.  In  making  white  cake  do  not  use  colored  butter  for  the  coloring  matter 
will  not  disappear  like  the  natural  color  does.  If  there  is  too  much  salt  in 
the  butter  it  should  be  freshened  by  working  it  in  cool  water.  Use  only  the 
very  best. 

The  sugar  should  generally  be  either  powdered  sugar  or  “ coflfee  A.” 
If  granulated  sugar  is  used  it  should  be  very  fine.  Use  pulverized  sugar  for 
delicate  cakes ; cofifee-crushed,  powdered  and  sifted  for  rich  cakes ; the  best 
brown  sugars  for  dark  cakes ; granulated  and  “ coflfee  A ” for  fruit  cakes  and 
jelly  cakes. 


120 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


The  eggs  should  be  fresh  and  cold  to  beat  well.  In  summer  cool  them 
on  ice  or  in  cold  water.  Many  of  our  best  cooks  think  they  get  better  results 
by  whipping  with  a fork  or  wire  spoon  than  with  a beater.  Always  beat  the 
eggs  in  an  earthen  vessel  and  never  in, tin;  a pinch  of  salt  added  makes  them 
come  to  a froth  quicker.  The  whites  and  yolks  shcJuld  be  beaten  separately. 

Most  cooks  grease  the  cake  pans  with  fresh  lard.  If  butter  is  used  it 
should  not  be  too  salty  or  the  cake  will  stick.  Cover  the  bottoms  of  the 
pans  with  white  or  manilla  paper.  As  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven  set  the 
pan  upon  a cloth  wrung  out  of  water  for  two  or  three  minutes  and  the  cake 
will  not  stick  when  being  taken  from  the  pan. 

Always  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  first,  then  add  the  }^olks  of  eggs,  milk, 
and  lastly  the  flour  and  whites  of  eggs. 

In  mixing  cake,  do  not  stir,  but  beat  it  thoroughly,  unless  otherwise  di- 
rected, bringing  the  batter  up  from  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  every  stroke. 
Use  a long  handled  wooden  spoon.  An  iron  spoon  turns  the  mixture  black. 
Never  beat  a cake  in  tin  but  use  earthen  or  stone  ware. 

Remember  that  sour  milk  and  soda  go  together ; and  sweet  milk  and 
baking  powder  go  together;  and  that  baking  powder  combines  the  properties 
of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  and  is  always  used  alone. 

To  one  quart  of  flour  use  2V2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

To  one  quart  of  flour  use  1 teaspoonful  of  soda  and  2 teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar. 

When  molasses  is  used  the  cake  should  always  be  baked  in  a moderate 
oven  for  the  molasses  makes  it  burn  easily. 

In  cake  making  do  not  try  to  economize  too  much  in  materials  as  a cake 
is  often  spoiled  by  some  pett}^  economy. 

It  is  a bad  thing  to  disturb  a cake  or  even  open  the  oven  door  for  the  first 
ten  minutes  while  baking  or  until  the  cake  is  “ set,”  but  if  it  is  baking  unevenly 
it  should  be  turned  very  gently,  keeping  the  oven  door  open  as  short  a time 
as  possible.  Outside  air  affects  the  baking  and  will  make  the  cake  fall. 

Test  with  a broom  splint  or  knitting  needle.  When  the  cake  is  done 
none  of  the  mixture  will  adhere. 

If  the  oven  bakes  too  fast  on  the  bottom,  place  the  grate  under  the  cake ; 
if  too  hot  on  the  top,  set  a pie  pan  of  water  on  the  top  grate. 

For  baking  sponge  or  pound  cake,  the  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  turn 
a piece  of  white  paper  a rich  yellow  in  5 minutes.  For  cookies,  layer  cakes 
or  cup  cakes,  the  paper  should  turn  a dark  brown  in  5 minutes.  For  baking 
bread,  throw  a little  flour  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  and  if  it  browns  quickly 
without  taking  fire  the  heat  is  sufficient.  For  baking  puff  paste,  the  heat 
should  be  greatest  first  and  decrease  later.  This  is  to  keep  the  paste  in  shape. 
When  the  oven  is  too  hot  the  temperature  may  be  reduced  by  placing  a pan 
of  cold  water  in  it.  After  a cake  is  in,  should  the  oven  be  found  too  hot  so 
that  the  cake  browns  almost  immediately,  lift  a lid  off  the  stove  and  cover 
the  cake  with  a buttered  paper.  The  cake  will  not  be  as  nice  as  if  it  were 
not  browned  so  quickly  but  this  is  all  you  can  do. 

Sprinkle  a little  flour  over  the  top  of  a cake  to  prevent  the  icing  from 
running  off.  Pour  on  a small  quantity  of  icing,  spread  it  over  the  cake  with 
a broad  knife,  which  dip  frequently  in  hot  water  to  keep  it  from  sticking. 
Never  try  to  ice  a cake  while  hot,  and  let  layer  cakes  get  nearly  cold  before 
putting  together. 

Gingerbread  should  be  baked  with  a moderate  fire  as  it  is  easily  burned. 


CAKE  MAKING. 


121 


Put  only  a little  of  the  dough  on  the  board  at  once  in  making  cookies. 
It  is  more  easily  managed  in  this  way.  Cookies  must  be  gotten  into  the  pans 
as  soft  as  possible. 

The  fire  should  be  fixed,  the  pans  greased  and  everything  in  readiness 
before  the  cake  is  mixed  if  baking  powder  is  used  for  it  effervesces  but  once 
and  there  should  be  no  delay  in  baking.  The  cake  should  rise  in  the  oven 
and  not  the  mixing  bowl. 

Bread  and  cake  pans  made  of  sheet  iron  are  better  than  those  made  of  tin. 

CAKE  RECIPES. 

1.  Buttermilk  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter;  2 cups  of  brown  sugar; 
2 cups  of  buttermilk;  1 lb.  of  currants;  1 lb.  of  raisins;  1 lb.  of  citron.  Use 
one  cup  of  fiour  in  which  to  dredge  the  raisins ; two  level  teaspoonfuls  of 
soda  dissolved  in  milk ; cloves,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste  and  flour  to 
stiffen.  Bake  two  hours. 

2.  Delicate  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar;  whites  of  4 eggs;  % cup  butter; 
Y2  cup  sweet  milk;  3 cups  flour;  1 teaspoonful  either  soda  or  baking  powder; 
2 teaspoonfuis  of  cream  of  tartar.  Flavor  with  lemon. 

3.  Grandma’s  Cake. — Two  cups  of  medium  brown  sugar,  % cup  melted 
butter  beaten  well  with  2 eggs.  When  thoroughly  beaten  add  a small  cup 
of  sour  milk,  1 teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  3 cups  of  sifted  flour  and  1 tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder;  1 teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  bake  well  in  moderate 
oven  either  in  loaf  or  layers.  If  in  layers  use  any  filling  desired. 

4.  Economical  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1 egg,  % cup  of  milk,  2 table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  1 tablespoonful  of  baking  powder,  2 cups  of  flour. 

5.  Caramel  Cake. — Two  eggs,  2 cups  of  brown  sugar,  \2  cup  butter,  % 
cup  of  sour  cream,  1 cup  grated  chocolate,  V2  cup  hot  water,  % teaspoonful 
of  soda,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder ; mix  chocolate  and  hot  water  together, 
then  add  soda  and  also  2%  cups  of  flour. 

6.  Wedding  Cake. — Five  pounds  sugar,  50  eggs,  5 lbs.  flour,  5 lbs. 
butter,  15  lbs.  raisins,  10  lbs.  currants,  3 lbs.  citron,  1 pint  brandy,  4 ounces 
nutmeg,  4 ounces  mace,  1 ounce  cinnamon,  I/4  ounce  cloves;  this  will  make 
43  or  44  pounds,  is  unequalled  and  will  keep  20  years. 

7.  Sultana  Cake. — One  pound  flour,  % lb.  butter,  % lb.  sugar,  8 large 
eggs,  1 lb.  Sultana  raisins,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a lemon,  % grated  nutmeg. 
Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a cream,  add  flour,  then  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten, 
next  flavoring,  then  raisins  dredged  with  flour,  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  very  stiff.  Bake  one  hour  and  a half  in  a slow  oven. 

8.  Taylor  Cake — (A  Fine  Fruit  Cake). — Seven  eggs,  1^4  lbs.  butter, 
1 pint  boiled  cider,  71/2  cups  flour,  1 lb.  currants,  2 lbs.  raisins,  I/4  lb.  citron,  14 
lb.  orange  peel,  1 teaspoonful  soda,  1 teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  1 teaspoon- 
ful cloves,  3 nutmegs. 

9.  Fruit  Cake. — One  cup  molasses,  2 cups  brown  sugar,  1 cup  butter, 
V2  cup  milk,  4 eggs,  4 cups  flour,  3 cups  stoned  raisins,  3 cups  currants,  1 cup 
chopped  citron,  1 teaspoonful  nutmeg,  1 teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon, 
teaspoon ful  cloves,  1 teaspoonful  of  soda  and  2 of  cream  of  tartar  or  3 of 
baking  powder. 

10.  Marble  Cake. — White  Part. — One  cup  of  white  sugar,  whites  of  4 
Vo  cup  of  butter,  Vo  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, 1 teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla  and  2%  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Dark 
Part. — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  yolks  of  4 eggs,  % cup  of  molasses,  V2  cup  of 


122 


TIIR  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  B60K. 


butter,  1/2  cup  of  sour  milk,  1 teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  1 teaspoonful 
of  mace,  1 teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1 grated  nutmeg,  1 teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a little  milk  and  added  after  part  of  the  flour  is  stirred  in;  11/2 
cups  of  sifted  flour.  Drop  a spoonful  of  the  light  then  the  dark,  alternately, 
into  a well  buttered  cake  pan. 

11.  Myrna  Marble  Cake. — White  Part. — One  cup  of  white  sugar,  whites 
of  4 eggs,  cup  of  butter,  I/2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  1 teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla,  2%  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Dark 
Part. — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  yolks  of  4 eggs,  % cup  of  molasses,  I/2  cup 
of  butter,  % cup  of  sour  milk,  add  cloves,  cinnamon  or  strawberry.  One 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  1%  cups  of  flour. 

12.  Sponge  Cake. — Three  eggs  beaten  for  5 minutes,  1 cup  of  sugar,  1/2 
cup  sweet  milk,  1 teaspoonful  of  lemon,  2 cups  flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder;  bake  slowly. 

13.  Angel  Food. — One  large  tumbler  of  granulated  sugar,  % tumbler 
of  powdered  sugar,  1 tumbler  of  sifted  flour,  whites  of  11  eggs,  1 teaspoon- 
ful of  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a stiff  froth ; sift  the  sugar  4 times ; 
sift  the  cream  of  tartar  through  the  flour  4 times ; add  the  sugar  to  the 
eggs  slowly,  as  for  frosting;  add  flour,  stirring  lightly  and  as  little  as  pos- 
sible ; flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla.  Bake  in  a deep  unbuttered  pan  for  % 
of  an  hour.  When  done  remove  from  oven  and  turn  upside  down,  allowing 
the  edges  of  the  pan  to  rest  on  some  supports.  When  entirely  cold  remove 
carefully  from  the  pan.  *Much  of  your  success  depends  upon  the  baking  and 
handling. 

14.  Ice  Cream  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  1%  cups  of  powdered 
sugar,  1/2  cup  of  milk,  % cup  of  cornstarch,  II/2  cups  of  flour,  2 level  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder,  % teaspoonful  vanilla,  whites  of  6 eggs ; beat  the 
butter  to  a cream,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  then  the  milk  alternately  with 
the  flour  to  keep  it  from  curdling.  Stir  in  lightly  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  the  last  thing  before  putting  into  the  pans.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for 
20  minutes.  This  makes  2 layers. 

15.  DeviBs  Food. — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  2 eggs,  % cup  sweet  milk, 
1^2  cup  butter,  2 .cups  sifted  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  1 tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  1 cup  grated  chocolate,  % cup  brown  sugar,  % cup  sweet 
milk.  Cook  to  thick  cream,  add  1 teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  stir  into  the 
batter  hot.  Bake  in  2 layers  in  a moderate  oven. 

16.  Devil  Cake. — One  small  cake  Baker’s  chocolate,  2 cups  granulated 
sugar,  1 cup  butter,  1 cup  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  3 cups  sifted  flour,  1 level 
teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  6 eggs  beaten  separately.  Put  choco- 
late in  bowl,  set  in  boiling  water  and  dissolve,  add  sugar  and  butter  and  beat 
light ; add  yolks  of  eggs,  then  milk  and  soda ; add  flour  and  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  at  once  and  beat  till  well  mixed.  Bake  in  layers  and  ice. 

1?'.  Jelly  Roll. — One  cup  sugar,  4 eggs,  1 cup  flour,  1 teaspoon ful  baking 
powder;  beat  well  together.  Bake  inMarge  shallow  pan,  spread  with  jelly 
and  roll  while  warm. 

18.  Quick  Cake. — Three  eggs,  2%  cups  of  flour,  % cup  butter,  % cup 
lard,  1 cup  of  milk,  1 cup  of  sugar,  4 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2 tea- 
spoonfuls of  vanilla. 

19.  One  Egg  Cake. — One  tablespoon  ful  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  1 
egg  beaten,  % cup  milk,  IV2  cup  flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 


123 


CAKE  M A rays' G. 

. 'V 

\ . 

N 

20.  Nut  Cake. — One  cup  butter,  2 cups  su^«i^4  eggs,  1 cup  milk,  3 cups 
flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1 cup  nut  kefiiiels. 

21.  Plain  Walnut  Cake. — Two  cups  of  flour,)  1 teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  % cup  butter,  1 cup  sugar,  2 eggs,  1 cup  milk ; beat  all  together  and 
add  1 cup  chopped  walnuts  and  1 teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

22.  Lemon  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  1 cup  butter,  7 eggs,  ly^  pints  of 
flour,  1 teaspoonful  baking  powder,  1 teaspoonful  lemon  extract.  Rub  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a light  cream ; add  the  eggs  two  at  a time,  beating  5 
minutes.  After  each  addition  add  the  flour  sifted  with  the  powder  and  the 
extract  mixed  into  a medium  batter.  Bake  40  minutes  in  paper  lined  tin  in 
moderate  oven. 

23.  Ribbon  Cake. — Two  cups  sugar,  % cup  butter,  4 eggs,  1 cup  milk, 
31/2  cups  flour,  spices,  3 level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  I/2  lb.  finely  chopped 
figs,  Y2  cup  raisins  stoned  and  cut  into  pieces,  1 tablespoonful  of  molasses. 
Cream  the  butter,  add  gradually  the  sugar  and  well  beaten  egg  yolks,  tlien 
the  milk.  Sift  the  baking  powder  and  flour  together  thoroughly,  then  add 
the  egg  whites  beaten  to  a stifif  froth.  Bake  one-half  of  the  mixture  in  a 
layer  cake  pan.  To  the  remainder  add  the  fruit,  molasses  and  spices  to  taste. 
Bake  and  put  the  layers  together  with  icing. 

24.  Gold  and  Silver  Cake. — One  cup  of  white  sugar,  yolks  of  4 eggs  well 
beaten,  1/2  cup  of  butter,  V2  cup  of  milk,  2 cups  of  flour,  1 tablespoonful  of 
baking  powder.  Same  for  the  silver,  except  use  the  whites  of  eggs. 

25.  White  Mountain  Cake. — Three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  2 cups  sugar, 
whites  of  7 eggs,  1 cup  cornstarch,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  2 cups 
flour. 

Filling. — One-half  cup  cold  water,  2 cups  sugar;  boil  until  it  threads,  then 
beat  into  the  whites  of  two  eggs ; flavor  with  vanilla. 

26.  Hickory  Nut  Cake. — One  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  % cup  butter,  3 eggs, 
II/2  cups  sugar,  1 cup  milk,  3 cups  flour;  cream  the  sugar  and  butter  and  then 
add  milk,  then  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  then  flour  well  sifted  with  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  then  nuts  and  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten. 

27.  Lemon  Jelly  Cake. — Four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2 cups  of  coffee 
sugar,  4 eggs,  leaving  white  of  one  for  frosting;  beat  whites  of  the  eggs 
separately ; mix  yolks  with  butter  and  sugar ; add  whites  last  after  flour  is 
added  ; 1 cup  of  milk,  3%  cups  of  flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  mixed 
with  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract. 

Filling. — One  egg,  1 cup  of  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
1 tablespoonful  of  water,  1 teaspoonful  of  flour.  Boil  till  it  thickens ; when 
cool,  spread  between  layers. 

28.  Prince  of  Wales  Cake. — White  Part. — One-half  cup  sugar,  % cup 
butter,  % cup  sweet  milk,  2 cups  flour,  1 teaspoonful  vanilla,  2 teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  whites  of  3 eggs.  Dark  Part. — One-half  cup  butter,  1 cup 
brown  sugar,  yolks  of  3 eggs,  1/2  cup  sour  milk,  2 cups  flour,  1 tablespoonful 
molasses,  i/o  teaspoonful  cloves,  1 teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1 teaspoonful  nut- 
meg, 1 teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water,  1 cup  raisins ; bake  each 
portion  in  two  layers  and  use  white  boiled  icing. 

Icing. — One-half  cup  water,  IV2  cups  sugar;  cook  until  it  threads,  then 
stir  until  it  is  smooth. 

29.  Angel  Cake. — One  and  a half  tumblers  of  pulverized  sugar,  whites 
of  11  eggs,  1 tumbler  of  flour,  1 teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  1 teaspoonful 
vanilla;  sift  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  three  times;  sift  sugar  once;  then  sift 


124: 


THE  PEOPLE’S'  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


flour  and  sugar  together  threfe  times.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a stiff  froth,  then  very 
lightly  add  sugar  and  flour.  Bake  at  once  in  a slow  oven,  40  minutes.  Turn 
the  pan  upside  down  to  cool.  Do  not  grease  the  tin. 

30.  Anna’s  Cup  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  % cup  of  b'ltter,  2 
eggs,  1 cup  of  sugar,  2 cups  of  flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Can 
use  this  for  many  kinds  of  cake,  with  or  without  fruit,  with  different  kinds 
of  flavoring  and  different  kinds  of  filling;  bake  in  loaf  or  layer,  or  in  patty 
pans. 

31.  Chocolate  Cake. — One  cup  of  sour  milk,  1 cup  of  molasses,  % cup 
of  butter  or  lard,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  3 cups  of  flour. 

Frosting. — On-e  square  of  chocolate,  1 cup  of  sugar,  white  of  one  egg,  1 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

32.  Cornstarch  Loaf  Cake. — Three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  ly^  cups  of 
sugar,  1 cup  of  sweet  milk,  3 eggs,  or  whites  of  four,  3 teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  % cup  of  cornstarch,  enough  flour  to  make  a moderately  stiff  batter; 
flavor  to  suit  taste. 

33.  Centennial  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  2 cups  of  sugar,  1 cup  sweet 
milk,  4 cups  flour,  3 heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  5 eggs ; beat  the 
whites  separately  and  add  the  last  thing  before  baking;  flavor  to  suit. 

34.  Cocoa  Cakes. — Cream  % cup  of  butter;  add  i/4  cup  of  cocoa,  the 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  1 cup  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  cinnamon,  % cup  of 
water,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  3 eggs,  II/4  cups  of  flour,  and  3 teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  gem  pans. 

35.  Delicate  Cocoanut  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
whites  of  3 eggs,  V2  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2 cups  of  flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder ; bake  in  a long  pan ; make  boiled  icing  and  stir  in  one  large 
cup  of  cocoanut ; spread  thickly  on  top  of  cake,  sprinkling  fresh  grated  cocoa- 
nut  on  top. 

36.  Crumb  Cake. — Three  cups  of  flour,  114  cups  of  sugar,  % cup  of 
butter  or  lard ; mix  sugar,  flour  and  butter  together  and  take  out  % cup  for 
crumbs;  into  the  balance  put  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  % cup  of 
milk  and  1 egg;  flavor  with  nutmeg;  make  out  in  two  loaves  and  sprinkle 
crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake.  Better  when  eaten  warm. 

^37.  Cheap  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  1 cup  of  sugar,  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  3 eggs,  saving  out  the  white  of  one  for  icing;  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  and  flour  enough  to  inake  thick  but  not  stiff*.  This  can  be  baked  in  a 
square  loaf  and  cut  in  squares. 

38.  Coffee  Cake. — One  cup  of  melted  butter,  2 cups  of  brown  sugar,  1 cup 
of  strong  coffee,  4 cups  of  flour,  2 eggs,  1 teaspoonful  of  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg;  1 cup  of  raisins,  boiled  and  seeded;  2 heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder. 

39.  Clara  Follett’s  Cake. — Cream  half  a cup  of  butter;  add  1/4  cup  of 
cocoa,  the  beaten  yolks  of  3 eggs,  1 teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1 cup  of  sugar, 
and  1/4  cup  of  water,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  li/4  cups  of  flour 
with  3 heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

40.  French  Cake. — One  cup  of  milk,  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  3 cups  of  flour, 
4 tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2 eggs,  % teaspoonful  of  soda,  ll^  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar ; flavor  according  to  taste.  Put  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  the 
cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour. 

41.  Feather  Cake. — Cream  1 tablespoonful  of  butter;  add  1 cup  of  sugar, 


CAKE  MAKING. 


125 


then  1 egg  well  beaten,  1Y2  cups  of  flour,  % cup  of  sweet  milk ; beat  well ; 
add  2 level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  20  minutes. 

42.  Gospel  Cake. — Three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  (1st  Kings  4-22)  ; 1 
cup  of  butter  (Judges  5-25)  ; 3 cups  of  sugar  (Jeremiah  6-20)  ; 2 cups  of 
raisins  (1st  Sam.  30-12)  ; 1 cup  of  water  (Genesis  24-17)  ; 1 cup  of  almonds 
(Genesis  43-11)  ; 6 eggs  (Isaiah  10-14)  ; 1 tablespoonful  of  honey  (Exodus  15- 
21)  ; a pinch  of  salt  (Leviticus  2-13)  ; 3 eggs  (yolks)  ; 1 pint  of  milk;  spices, 

2 tablespoonfuls.  Follow  Solomon’s  advice  for  making  good  boys  and  you 
will  have  a good  cake.  (Prov.  12-14.) 

43.  Silver  Cake. — One  cup  of  milk,  whites  of  6 eggs,  2 cups  of  sugar,  % 
cup  of  butter,  4 cups  of  flour,  i/4  teaspoonful  salt,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  pow- 
der, 1 teaspoonful  almond  extract;  cream  the  sugar  and  butter;  then  add  al- 
ternately the  milk  and  flour,  having  sifted  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt 
well  together ; then  add  extract  and  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs ; beat  well 
and  bake  in  loaf  pan  in  moderate  oven. 

44.  Lady  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  % cup  of 
sweet  milk,  2 cups  of  flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  four 
eggs  whipped  to  a stiff  froth.  Flavor  with  almond,  peach  or  rose  water. 

45.  A Cheap  Fruit  Cake. — One  cup  of  sour  milk,  1 cup  of  sugar,  2^/2 
cups  of  flour,  1 cup  of  raisins,  1 teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  allspice  or  cloves, 
1 egg,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  good. 

46.  Black  Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  1 pound  of  butter, 
10  eggs,  2 pounds  of  raisins,  3 pounds  of  currants,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  cinna- 
mon, 1 tablespoonful  of  ginger,  1 teaspoonful  of  cloves,  1 nutmeg,  3 tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder,  i/o  cup  of  cold  water,  I/2  teacup  of  molasses,  I/2 
pound  of  citron,  flour  enough  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  pound  cake.  Rub 
the  butter  and  sugar  together ; beat  the  eggs,  then  mix ; add  the  molasses, 
then  the  flour  and  fruit.  This  will  make  2 large  loaves.  Bake  1%  hours 
with  a slow  Are ; bake  in  pans  with  stems. 

47’.  Farmer’s  Fruit  Cake. — Two  cups  of  dried  apples,  soaked  over  night, 
chop  in  the  morning  and  cook  well  in  2 cups  of  molasses,  either  maple  or 
Orleans;  after  the  apples  are  done  let  them  get  cold;  flour  same  as  for 
other  fruit  cake.  Make  following  batter : One  cup  of  butter,  1 cup  of  sugar, 

3 eggs,  1 cup  of  sour  milk,  1 teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  1 
tablespoonful  of  soda  in  milk  and  5 cups  of  flour.  Can  add  1 cup  of  raisins, 
if  you  choose,  with  the  apples.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

48.  V/hite  Fruit  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  butter,  1 cup  of 
sweet  milk,  % cup  of  flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  5 
eggs,  V2  lb.  sliced  citron,  2 cups  cocoanut,  meats  from  1 quart  hickory  nuts, 
or  use  almonds. 

49.  Minnehaha  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  II/2  cups  of  sugar,  1 cup 
of  sweet  milk,  3 eggs,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  3 cups  of  flour. 

50.  Morangtarta. — One  pound  of  granulated  .sugar,  whites  of  ten  eggs, 
well  beaten ; one  pound  of  almonds,  grated  and  well  dried  by  allowing  them 
to  stand  over  night;  mix  the  sugar  and  almonds  together  and  beat  slowly 
into  the  whites  of  eggs.  Put  in  a buttered  pan  sprinkled  with  a few  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  slowly  for  an  hour.  To  be  eaten  with  fruit  and  whipped 
cream.  (Very  Fine.) 

51.  One  Egg  Cake. — One  egg,  1%  cups  of  sugar,  % cup  of  butter,  1 cup 
of  sweet  milk,  21/2  cups  of  flour,  2V>  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

52.  Queen  Cake. — Two  cups  of  flour,  1 cup  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  milk,  2 


12G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


eggs,  1 large  tablespoonfiil  of  butter,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  flavor 
to  taste ; beat  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  together ; then  add  the  milk  and 
flour,  mixed  with  the  powder.  Bake  in  shallow  pans  in  quick  oven. 

53.  Sunshine  Cake. — Beat  the  yolks  of  5 eggs  thick  with  a cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar ; a pinch  of  salt  and  % cup  of  flour,  which  has  been  sifted  with 
% teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar;  add  to  it  carefully  the  whites  of  7 eggs, 
whipped  very  stift' ; flavor  with  lemon  or  orange. 

54.  Tea  Cake. — One  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  1 egg,  1 cup  sugar,  1 
teaspoonful  baking  powder,  % cup  milk,  2 cups  flour. 

55.  Velvet  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  IV2  cups  pulverized  sugar, 
whites  of  4 eggs,  1 cup  of  sweet  milk,  2 cups  of  flour,  % cup  of  cornstarch,  1 
large  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  vanilla. 

56.  White  Loaf  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  butter,  1 cup  of 
sweet  milk,  3 cups  of  flour  measured  before  sifting,  3 rounding  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder,  whites  of  9 eggs ; measure  with  a pint  cup ; flavor  to 
taste ; ice  with  2 cups  of  sugar  and  the  whites  of  3 eggs ; add  nearly  a cup  of 
boiling  water  to  sugar,  and  cook  until  it  will  break  in  water,  then  pour  it 
slowly  with  left  hand  over  well  beaten  whites,  while  beating  hard  with  the 
right  hand. 

57.  White  Cake. — One-half  cup  of  butter,  IV2  cups  of  sugar,  % cup  of 
milk,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  2 cups  of  flour  and  the  whites  of  4 eggs, 
well  beaten  and  added  last ; flavor  to  taste. 

58.  Washington  Cake. — One  and  three-fourths  cups  of  flour,  1 cup  of 
sugar,  % cup  of  butter,  1 egg,  % cup  of  sweet  milk,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  1 teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Bake  in  three  round  tins ; when 
done,  put  a layer  of  apple  sauce  between  and  on  top  of  the  cake.  Jelly  or 
jam  may  be  substituted,  and  the  cake  served  with  whipped  cream  or  sauce. 

59.  Cream  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar;  2 eggs,  well  beaten  in  a cup,  fill 
up  with  sweet  cream ; 2 cups  of  flour ; 2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  2 layers. 

Filling. — One  and  one-fourth  cups  of  sugar,  14  cup  of  milk,  pinch  of  salt, 
4 teaspoonfuls  of  cocoa,  butter  size  of  walnut,  vanilla  to  flavor ; cook  soft  and 
beat  while  cooling  and  spread  on  cake. 

60.  Custard  Cake. — One  teacupful  of  sugar,  3 eggs,  3 teaspoonfuls  melted 
butter,  I/3  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  1 teacup  of  sifted  flour,  1J4  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder ; sift  the  baking  powder  in  the  flour ; beat  the  whites  and  yolks 
separately;  add  the  butter,  melted  just  enough  to  measure  well. 

Custard. — One  pint  of  milk,  2 eggs,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1 tablespoon- 
ful of  cornstarch. 

61.  Chocolate  Caramel  Cake. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  cup  of  butter,  1 cup  of  milk,  3 cups  of  sifted  flour,  3 teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  beaten  whites  of  4 eggs.  Bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — Whites  of  4 eggs  beaten  to  a stiff  froth,  1%  lbs.  of  confec- 
tioner’s or  XXXX  sugar  added  gradually.  Flavor  with  1 teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Spread  on  layers  and  allow  to  stand  until  cold.  Melt  2 squares  of 
Baker’s  chocolate  in  a small  dish  over  the  teakettle  and  spread  very  lightly 
over  the  hardened  v/hite  icing.  Cocoanut  may  be  used  instead  of  chocolate,  if 
preferred,  but  must  be ’put  on  before  the  white  icing  hardens. 

62.  Fig  Cake. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  butter,  3(/2  cups  of  flour, 
% cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  7 eggs,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  layers. 


CAKE  MAKING. 


127 


Filling. — One  pound  of  figs,  chopped  fine  and  put  in  a stew  pan  on  stove ; 
pour  over  it  a teacup  of  sugar.  Cook  all  together  until  soft  and  smooth.  Let 
cool  and  spread  between  layers. 

63.  Cream  Puffs. — One  cup  of  boiling  water  poured  on  % cup  of  butter ; 
1 cup  of  flour,  stirred  into  the  boiling  water;  boil  2 minutes,  let  cool,  then 
add  3 eggs  unbeaten  and  beat  well ; bake  % hour,  slowly  at  first.  The  puffs 
will  fall  if  not  baked  enough.  Bake  on  buttered  tins  until  a golden  brown. 

Custard. — One  cup  of  milk,  % cup  of  sugar,  1 egg,  3 teaspoonfuls  of  flour. 
Cut  a hole  in  the  side  of  puff  and  fill  with  custard. 

64.  Breakfast  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  2 cups  of  flour,  % cup  of  butter ; 
rub  well  with  hands  and  set  aside  i/2  cup  of  the  mixture  ; in  the  remainder  put 
one  egg,  1 cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  in  enough 
flour  to  make  a stiff  batter.  Put  in  shallow  pan  and  sprinkle  the  % cup  of 
crumbs  over  the  top.  Bake  in  a moderate  oven. 

65.  Apple  Cake. — Make  a thick  batter  of  2 cups  of  flour,  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  1 teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  cup  of  butter,  1 egg,  1 scant 
cup  of  milk.  Put  it  in  a long  shallow  pan  and  press  lightly  into  the  top  wedges 
of  peeled,  quartered  and  cored  apples ; 4 apples  will  be  all  that  are  needed  for 
the  cake.  Sprinkle  2 tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  over  the  top  and  bake  brown. 
Serve  with  cream  or  soft  sauce. 

66.  Pork  Cake. — One  pound  fat  pork,  1 lb.  seeded  raisins,  1 lb.  seeded 
dates,  1 lb.  currants,  1 lb.  figs,  1 teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1 teaspoonful  ground 
cloves,  2 cups  molasses,  1 cup  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  soda,  8 cups  flour,  1 pint 
of  hot  water  poured  over  the  flour  and  let  cool.  Mix  all  together  and  bake. 

67.  Roll  Jelly  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  1 cup  flour,  3 eggs,  3 tablespoon- 
fuls sweet  milk,  % teaspoonful  soda,  1 teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.  Bake  and 
when  done  spread  with  jelly,  roll  up  and  wrap  a napkin  around  it. 

68.  Chocolate  Loaf  Cake. — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  % cup  butter, 
creamed,  2 eggs,  1 tablespoonful  vanilla,  % cake  Baker’s  chocolate,  1/2  cup 
buttermilk,  % teaspoonful  soda  in  the  buttermilk  and  when  foaming  add  % 
cup  boiling  water  and  pour  quickly  over  the  grated  chocolate ; 3 cups  sifted 
flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

69.  Spice  Cake. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  molasses,  I/2  cup  of  butter 
and  lard  mixed,  1 cup  of  sour  milk,  2 eggs,  3 cups  flour,  1 teaspoonful  each  of 
cloves  and  cinnamon,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  soda.  Bake  in  4 layers. 

70.  Johnny  Cake. — 

“ Two  cups  Indian,  one  cup  wheat, 

One  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  sweet. 

One  cup  good  eggs  that  you  can  eat, 

One-half  cup  molasses,  too. 

One-half  cup  sugar  add  thereto, 

Salt  and  soda,  each  a spoon. 

Mix  up  quickly  and  bake  it  soon.” 

71.  Maple  Cake. — One  cup  molasses,  1 cup  dark  maple  sugar,  1 cup  but- 
termilk, 2 large  tablespoonfuls  shortening,  1 tablespoonful  ginger,  2 small  tea- 
spoonfuls soda,  flour  to  make  not  too  stiff. 

72.  Dolly  Varden  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  1 cup  of  milk,  1 tablespoonful 
butter,  2 cups  flour,  3 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  jBake  in  two  layers, 
leaving  enough  in  the  dish  for  one  of  them,  to  which  add  % cup  currants  and 
1 teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves.  Put  the  layers 
together  with  frosting  flavored  with  lemon. 

73.  Good  Almond  Cake. — One  cup  coffee  ‘‘  A ” sugar,  % cup  butter 


128 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  P,OOK. 


(small  part  lard),  % cup  milk  or  water,  whites  of  3 eggs,  1%  cups  flour,  lyo 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  bake  in  3 layers. 

74.  Layer  or  Loaf  Cake. — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  scant  % cup  butter, 
2 eggs,  saving  white  of  one  for  frosting,  % cup  milk,  1%  cups  flour,  2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking  powder  and  flavoring.  This  cake  is  a standby  for  all 
occasions  and  will  keep  moist  for  several  days.  Cocoa  may  be  added  for  solid 
chocolate  cake. 

75.  Spice  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  % cup  butter,  2 eggs,  cup  molasses, 
1 cup  sour  milk,  2i/^  cups  flour,  1 teaspoonful  each  of  soda,  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  a little  nutmeg.  If  fruit  is  added  this  makes  a very  good  fruit  cake. 

76.  Cheap  Fruit  Cake. — One  cup  sugar,  % cup  butter,  1 cup  sour  milk, 

1 teaspoonful  each  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  soda,  2 cups  flour,  1 
cup  raisins. 

77.  Lightning  Clouse. — Sift  together  in  a bowl,  1 cup  sugar,  1 cup 
flour,  1 teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Fill  a cup  % full  melted  butter,  break 

2 eggs  into  this,  fill  cup  with  milk,  add  to  dry  measure,  mix  thoroughly  and 
bake  in  two  layers.  Filling  of  whipped  cream.  This  is  a very  good  quick 
cake. 

78'.  Surprise  Cake. — Take  one  egg,  1 cup  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  butter; 
beat  all  together;  then  take  a cup  of  sweet  milk  with  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cream  of  tartar  and  1 teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  it;  then  mix  all 
together  and  thicken  with  flour.  If  desired,  a little  less  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar  may  be  used.  You  will  be  surprised  to  see  what  a nice  cake  this  makes. 

79.  Plain  Cake. — One  cup  sweet  milk,  1 cup  sugar,  I/2  cup  molasses, 
% cup  butter,  3 cups  flour,  1 cup  raisins,  2 teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar, 
1 teaspoonful  of  soda,  salt,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg;  add  milk  and 
soda  just  before  putting  into  oven. 

80.  Devil  Cake. — One  egg,  I/2  cup  sugar,  % cup  sweet  milk,  % cup 
grated,  unsweetened  chocolate ; cook  until  thickened  and  let  cool.  Cream 
1 cup  sugar  with  14  cup  butter;  add  2 eggs  beaten  separately,  % cup  sweet 
milk,  2 cups  flour,  I/2  teaspoonful  vanilla,  % teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in 
milk ; mix  all  thoroughly  and  add  chocolate  paste ; beat  well ; bake  in  layers 
and  white  frost  it. 

FROSTINGS,  ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 

1.  Chocolate  Filling  for  Cake. — Three-fourths  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1 cup 
of  sugar,  1Y2  cakes  of  sweet  chocolate,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  extract.  Boil 
until  thick. 

2.  Marshmallow  Filling  or  Icing. — Put  % cup  of  water  and  one  cup  of 
granulated  sugar  over  the  fire  together  and  boil  until  it  forms  a soft  ball 
when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Now  pull  apart  % pound  of  marshmallows, 
put  them  into  a double  boiler  with  2 tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  and  stir  until 
melted.  Then  pour  the  hot  syrup  gradually  into  the  marshmallow  mixture, 
beating  all  the  time ; add  a teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  beat  until  cold. 

3.  Icing  Without  Boiling. — Butter  the  size  of  a walnut;  the  white  of 
1 egg,  not  beaten ; enough  pulverized  sugar  to  spread  nicely,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  egg.  Mix  all  together  until  smooth.  Put  on  cake  when  cold. 

4.  Caramel  Icing. — One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  IY2  cups  of  maple  sugar, 
% cup  of  butter,  % cup  of  milk,  1 pound  pecan  nuts,  2 tablespoonfuls  vanilla : 
boil  together  10  minutes  the  butter,  milk  and  sugar;  add  the  chopped  nuts 


itai00Qi]fDj 


(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 

NO.  6.  A KITCHEN  CABINET  AND  CONVENIENCES  IN  A MODERN 

KITCHEN. 

In  the  kitchen  most  women  take  too  many  steps  in  preparing  meals  or  doing 
their  ordinary  baking.  Much  of  this  work  may  be  accomplislied  while  sitting  on  a 
stool  which  should  be  in  every  kitchen.  Besides  showing  all  the  conveniences  gathered 
in  one  spot  for  comfortable  working  this  illustration  shows  utensils  in  readiness  for 
bread  making — the  bread  mixer  to  the  left.  Note  the  accurate  measuring  cu])  which 
is  divided  into  halves,  quarters  and  thirds  and  is  very  important  to  use  in  all  cooking. 
In  fact,  there  is  no  sueh  thing  as  Inek  in  eooking  in  these  days  and  accurate  measuremeut 
is  absolutely  necessary.  With  all  supplies  and  utensils  in  one  place  much  labor  aud 
drudgery  are  saved  in  the  kitchen.  Note  Recipe  and  Expense  Cards  at  left. 


FROSTINGS,  ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 


129 


and  boil  3 minutes  longer;  remove  from  fire  and  add  vanilla;  stir  until  cool, 
then  spread  on  the  cake. 

5.  Boiled  Icing. — The  whites  of  2 eggs,  2 cups  of  granulated  sugar, 
citric  acid  the  size  of  a pea,  a few  drops  of  vanilla.  Barely  cover  the  sugar 
with  water,  and  boil  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Pour  it  slowly  into  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs,  beating  hard  all  the  time;  add  citric  acid  dissolved  in  a few 
drops  of  hot  water  and  the  vanilla.  Beat  until  cool  and  of  proper  consistency 
to  spread  on  cake. 

6.  Icing  for  Cookies. — Take  1 cup  of  sugar  and  boil  until  it  will  get 
hard.  Pour  over  the  well-beaten  white  of  1 egg;  stir  until  cool. 

7.  Chocolate  Cream  Frosting. — White  of  1 egg  beaten  to  a stiff  froth, 
and  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  water-;  add  confectioner’s  sugar  until  thick 
enough  to  spread;  flavor  with  vanilla;  spread  % inch  thick  on  cake;  melt 
% cake  of  German  sweet  chocolate  over  hot  water ; add  teaspoonful  of  boiling 
water  to  chocolate,  beating  well,  and  pour  it  over  the  frosting  on  the  cake ; 
it  will  remain  soft  and  creamy  for  a week,  cutting  without  breaking,  and 
is  delicious. 

8.  Maple  Caramel  Frosting. — Add  1 cup  of  cream  to  2 cups  of  broken 
and  rolled  maple  sugar.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in  water  (it  will  take  about 
fifty  minutes) ; beat  when  half  cool  until  it  becomes  creamy,  and  then 
spread  on  cake. 

9.  Lemon  Jelly  Filling. — One-fourth  pound  of  butter,  4 eggs,  juice  of 
4 lemons  and  grated  rind  of  two,  % cup  white  sugar;  mix  all  well  together 
and  boil  1 minute,  stirring  all  the  time;  when  cold  spread  between  cakes. 

10.  Custard  Filling. — One  cup  milk,  yolks  of  4 eggs,  % cup  sugar,  1 
dessert  spoonful  of  flour,  % pound  almonds,  reserving  20  split  for  putting  on 
king  on  top  of  cake.  Add  the  almonds  chopped  when  the  filling  is  cold  and 
i^ut  between  layers  of  cake.  Ice  as  desired. 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  GAME,  FISH,  OYSTERS 
AND  CROQUETTES. 

Some  hae  meat  and  canna  eat, 

And  some  would  eat  that  want  it; 

But  we  hae  meat,  and  we  can  eat, 

Sae  let  the  Lord  be  thankit. 

— Burns. 

The  sauce  to  meat  is  ceremony;  meeting  were  bare  without  it. — Macbeth. 


HOW  TO  SELECT  GOOD  MEAT  AND  POULTRY. 

Beef. — Good  beef  is  elastic  so  that  if  it  be  pressed  with  the  finger  no 
impression  will  remain.  If  the  meat  be  in  poor  condition  the  lean  part  will 
usually  be  of  a dark  color  and  inelastic. 

Mutton. — The  lean  part  of  good  mutton  is  of  a dark,  bright  crimson 
red ; the  fat  is  firm  and  white.  The  lean  part  of  bad  mutton  is  of  a brownish 
eolor  with  a bad  smell;  there  is  little  fat  and  it  is  flabby  and  yellowish. 

2—9 


130 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK, 


Pork. — The  fat  part  of  pork  should  be  firm  and  white;  the  lean  should 
be  of  a fine  .strain ; and  the  skin  cool  and  thin.  Should  the  fat  contain  ker- 
nels the  pork  should  be  avoided  for  the  pig  was  diseased  when  killed.  Pork 
should  not  be  kept  more  than  a day  or  two  before  it  is  cooked  for  it  will  not 
keep  long  without  salting.  Great  care  should  be  exercised  that  pork  be 
thoroughly  cooked  or  there  will  be  danger  of  disease. 

Veal. — Veal  will  spoil  quickly  and  should  not  be  kept  more  than  two 
days  in  summer  nor  four  in  winter. 

Turkeys. — A young  cock-turkey  has  smooth,  black  legs  with  short 
spurs.  Som.etimes  dealers  cut  and  scrape  the  spurs  of  old  turkeys  so  as  to 
deceive  one,  hence  they  should  be  carefully  examined.  The  beak  of  an  old 
turkey  is  hard  while  that  of  a young  bird  is  somewhat  soft.  The  legs  of 
an  old  hen-turkey  are  red  and  rough.  If  the  turkey  is  in  poor  condition 
the  eyes  will  be  dim  and  sunken  and  the  feet  dry  and  stiff,  while  if  it  be  in 
good  condition  the  eyes  will  be  bright  and  full  and  the  feet  soft  and  pliable. 

Fowls. — Select  a fat  fowl  for  any  purpose.  The  skin  should  be  trans- 
pai-ent  and  if  the  bird  is  young  and  tender  the  skin  under  the  wing  or  leg  may 
be  easily  torn.  A young  cock  will  have  short  spurs.  A fine  bird  will  have 
a full  fat  breast  and  a smooth  comb. 

Ducks. — If  the  duck  has  been  recently  killed  the  feet  and  legs  will  Be 
soft  and  pliable  but  if  it  be  stale  they  will  be  dry  and  stiff.  Freshness  of 
the  eyes  is  a good  indication.  An  old  duck  will  generally  be  thin  and  lean 
while  a young  bird  is  generally  plump.  The  tame  duck  has  rather  large  feet 
that  are  of  a dusky  yellow  while  the  feet  of  the  wild  duck  are  smaller  and 
of  a reddish  color. 

Geese. — The  feet  and  beak  of  an  old  goose  will  generally  be  red  and 
bristly,  while  those  of  a young  goose  will  be  yellow  with  few  bristles.  When 
stale  the  feet  and  legs  are  dry  and  stiff ; when  fresh  they  are  pliable  and  soft. 
The  breast  of  a young  bird,  as  with  all  poultry  in  good  condition,  is  plump 
and  the  flesh  whiter  than  that  of  old  birds. 


A FEW  SUGGESTIONS  CONCERNING  THE  COOKING  OF  MEATS 

AND  POULTRY. 

Salt  meats  and  meats  used  for  soup  should  be  put  to  cook  in  cold  water ; 
but  otherwise,  fresh  meat  should  be  put  on  in  boiling  water.  Cold  water 
extracts  the  juice  while  hot  water  quickly  cooks  the  outer  surface  of  the 
meat  and  so  retains  the  juices.  Put  a piece  of  red  pepper  in  the  water  to 
prevent  the  odor  which  arises  from  boiling  meat  and  turn  the  meat  fre- 
quently that  it  may  cook  evenly  on  all  sides.  Carefully  remove  all  scum  as 
it  arises.  The  meat  should  be  kept  boiling  constantly  but  very  gently. 
Allow  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat. 

When  roasting  meat  in  the  oven  it  should  be  frequently  basted,  that 
is,  the  juices  should  be  dipped  and  poured  over  it  with  a spoon.  Keep  the 
fire  at  a uniform  heat. 

In  broiling,  have  the  gridiron  hot  before  putting  on  the  meat.  Turn 
it  over  as  soon  as  it  sears. 

Do  not  salt  meat  until  it  is  nearly  done  as  salt  extracts  the  juices.  ‘’I'hc 
juices  of  meat  are  also  extracted  by  allowing  them  to  remain  wrapped  in 
paper  when  purchased.  The  meat  should  be  immediately  unwrapped. 

In  cooking  an  old  fowl  or  a tough  piece  of  meat,  add  a pinch  of  soda  or 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  GAME,  ETC.  131 

a spoonful  of  vinegar  to  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled  to  aid  in  making 
them  tender. 

Frozen  meats  should  be  laid  in  cold  water  to  thaw  out  shortly  before 
using. 

When  roasting  meat,  use  either  tripods  or  clean  pieces  of  wood  to  keep 
it  out  of  the  juices.  Keep  a pan  of  water  in  the  oven  to  prevent  scorching. 

In  warm  weather  mutton,  veal  and  pork  may  be  kept  fresh  for  several 
weeks  by  laying  them  in  sour  milk.  The  meat  should  be  entirely  covered 
and  the  milk  changed  when  mould  appears.  Wash  the  meat  in  cold  water 
before  using. 

Salt  pork  may  be  freshened  by  soaking  it  over  night  in  sweet  milk  and 
water. 

A nice  gravy  is  made  by  adding  the  meat  gravy  to  some  flour  and  butter 
which  have  been  rubbed  together  and  browned  in  the  skillet. 

The  garnishes  for  meat  are  slices  of  lemon,  parsley,  sliced  beets,  sliced 
carrots  and  currant  jelly. 

MEATS  AND  POULTRY. 

1.  Baked  Veal  Chops  or  Cutlet. — Put  in  a roasting  pan  and  season  witli 
pepper  and  salt,  dust  heavily  with  flour  and  put  small  pieces  of  butter  on  top. 
Then  cover  with  water  and  bake  one  hour. 

2.  Breaded  Ham. — Cut  1 pound  of  ham  in  slices  V4  inch  thick ; lay 
in  hot  water  for  30  minutes,  drain  and  wipe  dry,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
rolled  bread  crumbs  and  broil. 

3.  Creamed  Beef. — Melt  a lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a frying 
pan,  then  add  cold  roast  beef  cut  in  thin  slices  or  chipped  dried  beef  and  fry 
to  a nice  brown,  then  add  a tablespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  well ; last  of  all 
add  enough  water  or  milk  to  make  a nice  cream ; serve  with  or  without  toast 
as  you  like. 

4.  Dressing  for  Stuffing  Meats. — Soak  a loaf  of  baker’s  bread  in  cold 
water  and  squeeze  as  dry  as  possible.  Cut  a large  onion  up  fine  and  mix  with 
the  bread  and  fry  a light  brown  in  butter,  with  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper  and 
then  add  2 well-beaten  eggs  and  a little  sage  if  desired. 

5.  Veal  Loaf. — Three  pounds  veal,  3 eggs,  pound  ham,  1 cup  cracker 
crumbs,  I/2  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt,  a little  water 
in  the  pan  at  first.  Bake  % of  an  hour  or  longer. 

6.  Beefsteak  Roll. — Prepare  a bread  dressing  such  as  you  use  for 
chicken ; pound  a round  steak  a little  but  not  very  hard ; spread  the  dressing 
over  it;  lap  over  the  ends ; roll  the  steak  up  tightly  and  tie ; spread  2 spoonfuls 
of  butter  over  it ; put  a little  water  in  the  pan,  lay  steak  in  and  bake,  basting 
often.  In  a brisk  oven  it  will  bake  in  30  minutes.  Make  a brown  gravy 
and  serve  hot,  or  it  is  nice  when  sliced  cold. 

7.  Chicken  Tamales  (A  Mexican  Dish). — Mix  1 pint  each  of  finely 
ground  cooked  chicken  and  finely  ground  fresh  boiled  ham ; cut  2 large  red 
peppers  in  halves,  remove  seeds,  and  place  in  sauce  pan  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  5 minutes ; remove,  chop  fine  and  add  them  to  the  meat ; season  with  % 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  sauce  from  peppers.  Place  a sauce  pan  containing  a 
cupful  of  chicken  broth  over  the  fire.  Mix  4 tablespoonfuls  corn  meal  with 
cold  water ; add  it  slowly  to  boiling  broth ; add  % teaspoonful  butter;  cook  and 
stir  till  thick ; season  with  salt  to  taste.  Put  some  dried  corn  husks  in  warm 
water  to  soak  for  30  minutes,  remove,  cut  off  even  sizes,  spread  each  out  on  a 


182 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


dish.  Cover  with  thin  layer  of  meal  paste ; put  a tablespoonful  of  the  meat  in 
the  center  lengthwise ; fold  the  husk  around  it ; twist  the  ends  and  tie.  Place 
in  a steamer  and  steam  for  an  hour  and  a half  or  cover  with  chicken  broth  and 
cook  one  hour.  Any  kind  of  meat  may  be  used  instead  of  chicken. 

8.  Braised  Beef. — Cut  a round  steak  into  suitable  pieces  for  serving. 
Dip  these  in  salt  water,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  these  pieces, 
just  long  enough  to  brown  nicely,  in  a buttered  pan.  Put  into  a bake  pan  or 
dish  and  put  in  enough  water  to  make  the  pan  half  full.  Bake  90  minutes 
in  a moderate  oven. 

9.  Boiled  Ham. — Changing  the  water  once  or  twice,  soak  the  ham 
for  24  hours.  Put  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water  with  a little  sage  and  a cup  of 
vinegar.  When  very  tender,  remove  the  skin  and  black  outside,  sprinkle  the 
fat  side  with  sugar  and  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

10.  Ham  Pattie. — Chop  fine  some  pieces  of  cold  ham.  One-half  dozen 
boiled  eggs,  .chopped  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  a baking 
dish  a layer  of  ham,  then  a layer  of  eggs,  and  then  the  sauce  until  dish  is' 
full.  Sauce: — Mix  together  1 tablespoonful  of  flour  and  1 tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  stir  this  into  a cup  of  sweet  milk.  Over  the  top  layer  of  pattie, 
pour  this  sauce  and  spread  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  until  a nice  brown. 

11.  Tasse  Ham. — Cut  six  hard  boiled  eggs  in  halves,  crosswise;  re- 
move yolks;  place  cups  thus  made  around  edge  of  platter.  While  eggs  are 
boiling,  cook  % cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs  in  Vs  cup  of  milk  to  a smooth  paste ; 
add  1 cup  of  chopped  ham,  cooked,  1 egg  slightly  beaten,  % teaspoonful 
mustard ; make  into  balls,  set  one  in  each  half  egg  cup.  White  Sauce : — 
Two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour,  1 cup  of  milk  and  1 teaspoon- 
ful of  salt.  Turn  this  into  center  of  platter,  sift  yolks  over  it  and  set 
dish  in  oven  until  eggs  are  hot.  Garnish  with  parsley.  You  can  use  mush- 
rooms in  the  white  sauce  if  so  desired. 

12.  Deviled  Ham  Rolls. — Roll  thin  some  light  rich  pastry  and  cut  into 
four-inch  squares ; spread  upon  each  square  a spoonful  of  deviled  ham,  leaving 
about  1/2  inch  around  the  edge  uncovered.  Moisten  the  edges  with  cold 
water;  roll  each  sheet  of  ham  and  pastry  compactly,  pressing  the  edges 
together.  Brush  with  white  of  egg  and  bake.  This  is  nice  with  a salad 
course. 

13.  Stuffed  Leg  of  Pork. — Make  deep  incisions  in  the  meat ; mash  fine 
a few  boiled  potatoes ; add  a chopped  onion,  cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  a little 
sage.  Mix  a piece  of  butter  with  this  and  fill  the  incisions ; pull  the  skin 
down,  and  skewer  over  to  keep  the  dressing  from  falling  out.  Roast  slowl}^ ; 
when  the  meat  is  done  pour  the  gravy  into  a pan,  take  off  the  fat  and  add  a 
little  brov/n  flour;  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  once,  remove  from  the  fire;  serve 
with  cranberry  sauce. 

14.  Veal  with  Oysters.-— Cut  1 pound  of  select  veal  into  squares  about 
the  size  of  the  oysters ; fry  nice  and  brown ; when  done  add  enough  butter 
to  make  sufficient  gravy  and  season.  Pour  over  this  1 quart  of  oysters, 
well  cleaned  and  drained,  with  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour  stirred  all  through 
the  oysters ; pepper  and  salt ; cover  and  let  steam  until  the  oysters  begin 
to  curl  and  the  gravy  is  thickened. 

15.  Curry  Chicken. — Cut  up  a chicken ; slice  an  onion  and  fry  in  the 
skillet  with  a generous  piece  of  butter;  add  a teaspoonful  of  curry  powder. 
Put  in  chicken  and  fry  just  long  enough  to  absorb  the  onion  flavor.  Grate 
1 cocoanut  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it;  strain  through  cheese  cloth, 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  GAME  ETC. 


188 


squeezing  tight;  add  the  chicken -to  cocoanut  water;  cook  until  meat  drops 
from  bones.  If  water  boils  away  add  more:  salt  the  last  thing*  add  a little 
flour  and  more  curry  powder  if  desired.  Serve  with  hot  boiled  rice. 

16.  Chicken  Sauteing. — Melt  2 tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a pan  with  a 
small  chopped  onion ; do  not  let  it  brown . put  into  this  a tender  chicken  cut 
into  small  pieces ; season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Let  cook  for  20  minutes, 
turning  often ; then  dredge  with  flour,  stir  around  well  and  add  a scant  pint 
of  stock  or  water — boiling.  Cover  and  place  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove 
where  it  will  simmer  gently  until  done.  Remove  all  grease  from  gravy  and 
add  a cup  of  cream ; cook  for  2 or  3 minutes  and  pour  over  chicken. 

17  Chicken  Pie. — Take  a good  sized  chicken  that  is  neither  too  fat  nor 
too  old ; cut  it  up  and  remove  all  extra  fat ; wash  it  well  and  cook  until  tender, 
keeping  the  fat  skimmed  from  the  top  of  the  kettle.  Put  the  extra  fat  in  a 
skillet  and  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it  can  slowly  cook  until  all 
grease  is  extracted  and  when  cold  it  may  be  used  with  other  shortening 
to  make  the  crust  for  the  pie  The  crust  may  be  made  in  the  usual  way, 
lining  the  pan  with  an  under  crust;  then  add  the  chicken  and  4 sliced  po- 
tatoes; then  the  broth  made  into  a nice  gravy;  put  the  top  crust  on  and 
bake  until  it  is  a nice  brown, 

18.  Cleveland  Chicken. — Cut  up  a cooked  chicken  fine,  a few  potatoes 
cut  in  squares  and  bread  crumbs ; put  on  the  stove  1 cup  of  milk,  1 tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  1 tablespoonful  of  flour,  pepper,  salt  and  a little  parsley;  mix 
with  the  other,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

19.  Old  Point  Comfort  Chicken  Terrapin. — Boil  a chicken  until  tender; 
remove  bones ; thicken  the  broth  with  a lump  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour  and 
then  put  the  meat  of  the  chicken  back  on  the  stove ; add  % pound  of  butter, 
a dozen  mushrooms,  a little  summer  savory,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Boil 
and  stir  until  tender;  then  add  yolks  of  3 hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine; 
then  sweet  cream  and  serve  hot. 

20.  Chicken  Croquettes. — Boil  a cup  of  milk  with  a lump  of  butter  as 
large  as  an  egg  and  a tablespoonful  of  flour;  when  cool  add  pepper  and  salt, 
a bit  of  minced  onion,  1 cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  1 pint  of  finely  chopped 
chicken ; lastly,  beat  2 eggs  and  work  in,  form  in  balls,  roll  in  eggs  and  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry. 

21.  Chicken  Cutlets. — Rub  together  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  1 of 
butter;  add  to  them  % pint  of  stock;  stir  constantly  until  boiling  and  then 
add  the  yolks  of  2 eggs.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  1 pint  of  cold  chopped 
chicken,  a tablespoonful  of  parsley,  1 teaspoonful  of  salt,  a little  pepper  and 
a grating  of  nutmeg.  Mix  and  put  aside  to  cool ; when  cold  form  into  the 
shape  of  cutlets,  dip  in  eggs  and  crumbs  and  fry.  Turkey  can  be  used 
the  same  way. 

22.  Chicken  and  Macaroni. — In  a baking  pan  arrange  layers  of  bits  of 
chicken,  macaroni  and  bread  crumbs,  the  crumbs  on  top ; season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Pour  over  a dressing  made  of  2 cups  of  stock,  % cup 
of  cream  and  flour  to  thicken ; bake  45  minutes. 

23.  Sweetbreads  and  Peas. — Soak  2 pairs  of  sweetbreads  in  cold  salt 
water  for  an  hour,  then  cook  from  30  to  45  minutes.  Take  1 can  of  French 
peas  cooked  and  seasoned  as  for  table,  add  the  chopped  sweetbreads,  put  in 
baking  dish,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  a generous  amount  of  butter, 
bake  in  hot  oven  10  minutes  or  until  brown. 


134 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


24.  Liver  Timbales. — To  a pint  of  cooked  calf’s  liver,  chopped  fine  and 
salted,  add  a cup  of  bread  crumbs,  2 beaten  eggs,  1 cup  of  milk,  1 teaspoonful 
of  parsley,  a few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  a tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  turn  into  molds  and  cook  in  a pan  of  warm  water 
in  a moderate  oven  for  about  25  minutes.  vServe  with  mushroom  sauce. 

25.  Stuffed  Tripe. — Clean  and  boil  a large  piece  of  fresh  tripe,  spread 
with  a highly  seasoned  bread  dressing,  roll  up  and  tie.  Put  it  into  a baking 
pan  with  i/4  cup  of  butter  and  a cup  of  hot  water;  cover  and  bake  about  an 
hour  in  a moderate  oven,  basting  frequently. 

26.  Nut  Balls. — Any  cold  cooked  meat  may  be  used.  To  each  half  pint 
of  finely  chopped  meat  add  1/4  cup  of  chopped  blanched  almonds,  1 raw  egg, 
1/2  teaspoonful  salt  and  a pinch  of  white  pepper.  Mould  this  mixture  into  balls 
the  size  of  a walnut ; place  in  an  agate  baking  dish ; add  II/2  cups  strained  to- 
mato, which  has  been  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  celery  salt  or  a little 
onion  juice.  Place  in  a moderate  oven  for  15  minutes;  reduce  and  thicken 
by  placing  over  the  fire  for  a few  moments.  Serve  this  sauce  poured  around 
the  balls.  Garnish  with  parsley. 

27.  A Ragout. — Mix  % cup  of  cheese  with  1 cup  of  chopped  cold  meat; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  1/2  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  paste ; moisten 
thoroughly  with  gravy  made  with  milk  or  stock;  put  in  a baking  dish;  cover 
with  a layer  of  bread  crumbs  sprinkled  with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  about 
20  minutes.  It  may  be  baked  and  served  in  individual  ramekin  dishes  or 
patty  shells. 

28.  Pressed  Tongue. — Boil  a medium  sized  tongue  four  hours  very 
gently;  remove  the  skin  as  soon  as  it  is  taken  out  of  the  boiling  water; 
then  slice  into  a chopping  bowl  and  chop  fine.  Season  well  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Put  in  a little  more  than  % teaspoonful  of  mace,  and  lastly  add  one 
cup  of  finely  chopped  English  walnuts.  The  next  day  it  will  be  ready  to 
serve.  If  any  other  meat  is  used  it  will  need  to  be  moistened  with  a little 
of  the  liquid  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled. 

29.  Dressing  for  Baked  Fowl. — Chop  fine  6 or  8 slices  of  stale  bread; 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage ; add  1 egg,  well  beaten,  and 
2 ounces  butter;  mix  well  together  and  moisten  with  1 cup  of  hot  water. 

30.  Beef  Loaf. — Grind  1%  pounds  of  steak;  add  a little  salt;  mix  into 
this  1 cup  of  ground  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  rubbed  in ; add  a cup  of  sweet  milk  with  an  egg  beaten 
into  it ; mix  all  together  like  pie  dough ; form  into  a loaf ; put  into  a buttered 
pie  pan  and  roast  and  baste  from  45  minutes  to  an  hour. 

31.  Deviled  Ham  Loaf. — Take  2 spoonfuls  of  cracker  or  bread  crumbs, 
14  pound  of  deviled  ham,  2 cups  of  milk,  using  a portion  to  moisten  the  ham ; 
stir  in  2 eggs ; add  salt  to  taste ; put  into  buttered  pan  and  bake  1 hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Cut  in  thin  slices,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  cold. 

32.  Chop  Suey. — Fry  % of  a pound  of  shredded  white  meat  of  chicken 
in  butter  until  golden  brown ; add  a little  black  bean  sauce  and  then  add  to 
this  the  following  ingredients,  all  chopped  fine:  V2  pound  of  celery,  ^4:  pound 
of  mushrooms,  14  pound  of  bamboo  root,  V4  pound  onions  and  % pound  of 
water  chestnuts.  Fry  all  this  together  two  minutes  and  add  salt,  pepper 
and  a little  water.  Simmer  three  minutes  longer  and  serve  hot.  This  will 
serve  six  persons.  The  Chinese  ingredients  can  be  purchased  at  any  Chinese 
store  or  restaurant. 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  GAME,  ETC. 


135 


GAME. 

1.  Pheasants,  Partridges,  Quails,  Etc. — These  are  nice  in  flour  and  laid 
in  a deep  dish  containing  1/2  cup  of  drippings;  add  pepper  and  salt  and  lay 
nice  slices  of  ham  or  bacon  over  the  top.  When  done  remove  the  ham  and 
make  a dressu  g of  % pint  of  cream  and  a dozen  chopped  oysters,  to  be 
added  just  before  serving. 

2.  A Delicious  Rabbit  Fry. — Cut  the  rabbit  in  pieces  and  quickly  wash 
in  cold  water.  Do  not  soak  it.  Have  frying  pan  very  hot;  then  when  you 
have  seasoned  the  meat,  roll  it  in  flour  and  place  in  a pan,  into  which  drop 
a tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  lard.  Cover  with  a pan  and  let  the  rabbit 
be  very  well  done  before  you  turn  it  over  to  brown  on  the  other  side.  A 
rabbit  fried  in  this  manner  will  smell  almost  as  nice  as  it  will  taste. 

3.  Rabbit  Stew. — Cut  up  the  rabbit,  cover  with  cold  water  and  put  over 
the  fire;  add  a teaspoonful  of  salt  and  boil  until  tender.  Have  ready  hot 
biscuits  broken  open  and  laid  on  a platter  and  on  each  place  a piece  of  the 
rabbit.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour  wet  smoothly  in  a 
little  milk ; let  it  boil  a minute,  then  add  a cup  of  milk  or  cream  and  stir 
well.  Pour  this  over  the  rabbit  and  biscuit  and  serve  at  once. 

4.  Hasenpfeffer. — After  the  rabbit  has  been  in  salt  water  for  several 
hours,  rinse  with  clear  water.  Boil  until  tender  in  water  containing  an 
onion  in  which  are  stuck  about  a dozen  cloves.  When  tender  take  from 
liquor,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  brown  in  skillet,  using  equal  quantities  of  butter 
and  lard;  just  before  removing  from  skillet,  sprinkle  over  a little  cinnamon 
and  about  1 tablespoonful  of  vinegar  (more  or  less  to  suit  taste)  ; cook 
closely;  let  smother  for  a few  minutes;  remove  rabbit;  put  flour  in  skillet 
and  brown  in  remaining  grease ; add  liquor  in  which  the  rabbit  was  cooked 
to  make  a nice  gravy ; pour  over  rabbit. 

FISH  AND  OYSTERS. 

“Master,  I marvel  how  the  fishes  live  in  the  sea!” 

“ Why  as  men  do  on  land ; the  great  ones  eat  up  the  little  ones.” 

•^Pericles. 

“Drenched  in  the  sea,  hold,  notwithstanding,  their  freshness.” — Tempest. 

“ Fruit  of  the  wave  I O,  dainty  and  delicious ! 

Food  for  the  gods ! Ambrosia  for  Apicius ! 

Worthy  to  thrill  the  soul  of  sea-born  Venus, 

Or  titillate  the  palate  of  Silenus ! ” 

In  selecting  fish  see  that  the  eyes  are  full  and  not  dull  and  sunken.  The 
flesh  should  be  firm  and  hard  to  the  touch  and  should  rise  at  once  to  the  pres- 
sure of  the  finger. 

The  earthy  or  muddy  taste  may  be  removed  by  soaking  in  salt  water 
shortly  before  using.  The  skin  may  be  readily  removed  by  pouring  boil- 
ing water  over  it  and  letting  it  stand  a few  minutes.  Lemon  juice  whitens 
fish. 

Fish  should  be  cooked  the  day  they  are  bought.  Fresh  mackerel,  espe- 
cially, spoil  very  quickly. 

In  frying  fish,  put  it  into  very  hot  lard  and  turn  as  soon  as  browned  on  one 
side.  When  browned  on  both  sides  move  the  skillet  to  the  back  part  of  the 
stove^  coyer  and  let  cook  slowly.  Use  plenty  of  lard  but  no  butter. 

Garnishes  are  parsley,  sliced  beets,  lemon,  lettuce  and  hard-boiled  eggs. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


1.  Baked  White  Fish. — Fill  the  fish  with  a stuffing  of  fine  bread  crumbs 
and  a little  butter ; then  sew  up  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Bake  an  hour  and  serve  with  egg  sauce  or  parsley  sauce. 

2.  Boiled  Fresh  Fish. — Tie  the  fish  up  in  a cloth  and  plunge  into  salted 
boiling  water.  Boil  very  slowly,  allowing  eight  minutes  to  the  pound.  When 
about  half  done  add  a little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Whe  i done,  drain, 
dish  carefully  and  pour  drawn  butter  over  it. 

3.  Clam  Stew. — Drain  off  and  strain  the  liquor  from  25  clams ; cut  them 
up  and  place  with  the  strained  liquor  in  a stew  kettle.  Cut  into  small  pieces 
5 or  6 potatoes  and  a small  onion;  add  these  to  the  clams  with  half  a cup 
of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stew  until  done ; 
thicken  with  gravy  and  serve  hot. 

4.  Baked  Codfish. — Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  1 pint  of  milk,  1 cup 
of  shredded  codfish ; thicken  milk  as  thick  as  for  cream  toast ; put  the  yolks 
of  eggs  in  while  milk  and  fish  are  hot;  add  Avhites  last.  Bake  20  minutes. 

5.  Fish  a la  Creme. — One  pint  of  cold  cooked  fish,  picked  in  fine  pieces  ; 

1 pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  2 eggs,  1 small  piece  of  onion,  1 sprig  of  parsley, 

2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1 tablespoonful  of  butter.  Put  milk  on  to  boil 
in  a double  boiler;  add  to  it  the  onions  and  parsley;  rub  the  butter  and 
flour  together  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk ; cook  2 minutes ; add  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  2 eggs ; take  from  the  fire  and  strain ; add  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Put  a layer  of  this  same  in  a buttered  baking  dish,  then  a layer  of 
fish,  another  of  the  same,  and  so  on,  having  the  last  layer  of  the  same; 
sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with  bread  crumbs  and  put  in  the  oven  until  a 
nice  brown. 

6.  Baked  Pickerel. — Cleanse  the  fish  thoroughly  in  salt  water;  split 
so  it  will  lit.  flat  in  the  pan;  sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt  and  bits  of  butter; 
pour  into  the  pan  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning  and  bake  about  45 
minutes.  Make  a sauce  in  the  proportion  of  a tablespoonful  of  flour,  a table- 
spoonful of  butter,  and  half  a pint  of  milk  or  water;  when  boiled  until  smooth, 
stir  in  a tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  serve  very  hot. 

7.  Lobster  a la  Newburg. — Two  pounds  of  lobster,  yolk  of  1 egg,  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  % pint  of  cream,  small  wine-glass  of  sherry,  a very 
little  water.  Stew  lobster  slowly  with  the  butter  and  water  for  15  minutes ; 
stir  egg,  cream  and  part  of  the  wine  and  mix  with  the  lobster  and  stir  5 min- 
utes. Add  remainder  of  the  wine  just  before  serving. 

8.  Oyster  Dressing. — One  pint  of  oysters.  Take  the  giblets  of  a 
chicken  boiled  until  tender;  crumb  up  a loaf  of  stale  bread;  heat  1 cup  of 
milk  boiling  hot ; pour  the  hot  milk  and  water  from  giblets  over  the  bread ; 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Stir  in  with  a spoon  the  oysters  and  1 
egg  well  beaten.  This  amount  is  enough  to  stuff  one  chicken. 

9.  Oyster  Cocktails. — For  one  person,  take  four  to  six  nice  large  oysters. 
Sauce: — one  tablespoonful  of  horseradish,  2 or  3 tablespoonfuls  of  tomato 
catsup,  a pinch  of  salt,  also  of  Hungarian  paprika,  dash  of  tobasco  sauce, 
a few  drops  of  vinegar,  also  a few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  pour  over  the  oysters.  If  oysters  are  served  on  the  half  shell,  sauce  is 
served  in  a sherbet  glass,  in  middle  of  plate,  surrounded  by  the  shells. 

10.  Curried  Oysters. — Drain  the  liquor  from  a quart  of  oysters  and  put 
it  in  a sauce  pan ; add  Vo  cup  of  butter,  1 tablespoonful  of  curry  powder, 
2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  well  mixed;  let  boil;  add  oysters  and  a little  salt; 
boil  up  and  serve. 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  GAME,  ETC. 


13; 


11.  Oyster  Omelet. — Add  half  a dozen  eggs  beaten  very  light  to  % cup 
of  cream ; season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  into  a frying  pan  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter;  drop  in  a dozen  large  oysters  cut  in  halves  or 
chopped  fine  with  parsley  and  fry  until  light  brown ; double  it  over  and  serve 
immediately. 

12.  Steamed  Oysters. — Wash  and  drain  a quart  of  select  oysters;  put 
them  in  a pan  and  place  in  steamer  over  boiling  water;  cover  and  steam  till 
oysters  are  plump  with  edges  ruffled;  place  in  heated  dish  with  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  and  serve. 

13.  Salmon  Loaf. — Beat  2 eggs,  add  1 cup  of  bread  crumbs,  2 table- 
spoonfuls of  melted  butter  and  the  fish  contained  in  a pound  can  of  salmon, 
saving  the  liquor.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  and  steam  in  a but- 
tered dish  1 hour.  Sauce : — One  egg  beaten  lightly,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter  and  1 tablespoonful  of  cornstarch ; after  mixing  stir  in  1 cup  scald- 
ing milk,  cook  a moment  and  add  the  liquor;  pour  this  over  the  fish  and 
serve. 

14.  Turbot. — Boil  a bass  or  white  fish  and  pick  it  to  pieces ; place  it  in 
a baking  dish ; pour  over  it  a pint  of  milk,  2 eggs,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, 1 tablespoonfiil  of  flour;  season  lightly;  sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  the 
top  and  bake  20  minutes. 

15.  Pigs  in  Blanket. — Season  large  oyster  with  pepper;  cut  very  thin 
slices  of  bacon  and  wrap  around  the  oyster  and  fasten  with  a toothpick ; fry 
until  the  bacon  is  crisp  and  brown.  No  salt  will  be  needed  as  the  bacon  con- 
tains salt  enough. 

16.  Salmon  Balls. — One  can  of  salmon  free  from  bones  and  skin ; 3 
cold  boiled  potatoes,  chopped  fine ; 1 egg,  beaten  and  mixed  with  salmon 
and  potato;  salt  and  pepper;  make  into  little  cakes  and  roll  in  corn  meal 
or  cracker  crumbs ; fry  in  hot  lard. 

17.  Fried  Oysters. — Drain  oysters,  dip  them  in  cracker  meal,  then  in 
well  beaten  eggs,  then  again  in  cracker  meal;  then  fry  a nice  brown  in  hot 
lard. 

18.  Salmon  Chops. — Take  the  salmon  from  one  can,  remove  the  skin  and 
bones  and  mash  with  a silver  fork ; put  together  2 level  teaspoonfuls  each  of 
butter  and  flour,  1/9  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a dash  of  cayenne ; add  the  fish, 
a tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  1 teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  When 
cold  form  into  chops,  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  put  a piece  of  macaroni 
in  the  end  for  a bone  and  form  in  shape. 

19.  Halibut  Steak. — Wash  and  dry  2 halibut  steaks;  butter  a fish  pan, 
lay  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  on  it,  place  the  steak  on  this,  pour  lemon  juice 
over  it  and  dust  with  salt  and  pepper ; dip  1/2  pint  of  oysters  in  melted  butter, 
then  in  crumbs  and  place  on  fish.  Put  the  second  steak  over  the  oysters 
and  season  as  before,  laying  thin  slices  of  pork  on  top.  Bake  30  to  40  min- 
utes, basting  often  with  juice  from  the  pan  and  lastly  butter.  Remove  the 
pork  from  the  top,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  brown  and  serve. 

20.  Creamed  Fish. — For  2 cups  of  cold  fish  or  canned  salmon  flaked  fine, 
make  a cream  sauce  ,with  a tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a tablespoonful  of 
flour  beaten  together  with  % teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a bit  of  red  pepper. 
Pour  a cup  of  milk  on  this  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens;  add  the 


138 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


fish  with  a tablespoonftil  of  chopped  parsley;  pour  into  a buttered  dish  and 
cover  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  a light  brown. 

21.  Codfish  Balls. — Pick  apart  one  cup  of  fish  and  put  it  in  a saucepan 
with  one  pint  of  raw  cut  up  potatoes;  cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  until 
potatoes  are  done;  drain  well.  Wash  and  stir  until  light;  season  with  pepper 
and  a teaspoonful  of  butter.  Stir  in  one  egg,  well  beaten;  shape  with  a 
tablespoon  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  lard. 

22.  Hollandaise  Sauce. — Beat  % cup  of  butter  until  creamy,  add  yolks 
of  4 eggs  one  at  a time  and  beat  until  blended.  Add  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
the  juice  of  1 lemon  and  a dash  of  cayenne.  Beat  until  smooth,  add  % cup  of 
milk  or  stock  and  cook  until  thickened. 

23.  Escalloped  Oysters. — One  quart  of  oysters,  1 quart  of  rolled  crackers 
or  bread  crumbs ; put  into  a deep  dish,  putting  alternate  layers  of  oysters 
and  crackers  and  small  pieces  of  butter;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  When 
dish  is  full,  cover  with  milk.  Bake  30  minutes. 

24.  Frizzled  Oysters. — Dry  a quart  of  oysters  on  a napkin,  put  butter 
in  frying  pan,  when  very  hot  put  in  oysters,  season  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
serve  hot. 

25.  Baked  Shad. — Make  a stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  butter 
and  parsley  and  mix  this  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  3 eggs  and  enough  milk  to 
moisten ; fill  fish  and  sew  or  fasten  a string  around  it.  Pour  over  it  a little 
water  and  some  butter  and  bake  as  a fowl ; an  hour  or  more  is  required  to 
bake  it.  Boil  up  the  gravy  in  which  the  fish  was  baked,  put  in  a teaspoonful 
each  of  flour,  catsup  and  lemon  juice.  Pour  on  as  a dressing.  To  bake 
salmon,  omit  stuffing. 

26.  Broiled  Oysters. — Dry  the  required  number  of  large,  selected  oy- 
sters ; place  on  a fine  wire  broiler,  turning  often ; have  some  toast  ready, 
butter  the  oysters,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  place  on  the  toast,  put  in 
the  oven  for  a moment  to  heat,  and  serve. 

27.  Baked  Salmon. — One  can  of  salmon  minced  fine,  1 cup  of  cracker 
crumbs,  1 cup  milk,  1 well-beaten  egg,  butter  the  size  of  a walnut.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Serve  hot. 

28.  Salmon  Croquettes. — Take  1 large  can  of  salmon,  free  it  from  the 
oil  and  bones  and  shred  it  carefully;  sprinkle  over  it  a little  lemon  juice  and 
allow  it  to  stand  a few  minutes ; melt  1 tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a sauce 
pan,  mix  smoothly  in  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  then  add  slowly  2 cups  of 
milk  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt ; then  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  2 eggs,  well 
beaten  with  a tablespoonful  of  cream ; add  the  fish  and  1%  cups  of  bread 
crumbs;  cook  3 minutes,  remove  from  fire  and  when  cold  make  into  cro- 
quettes; roll  in  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg  and  again  in  the  crumbs;  fry 
in  deep  hot  fat. 

29.  Oyster  Rarebit. — Add  % pound  of  grated  cheese  to  2 tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter.  Remove  the  hard  muscle  from  % pint  of  oysters  and  cook 
until  they  are  plump ; drain  and  keep  hot.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2 eggs  until 
light  and  add  % cup  of  oyster  liquor  and  the  oysters  and  stir  into  the  melted 
cheese.  Serve  on  squares  of  toasted  bread. 

30.  Escalloped  Salmon. — One  can  of  salmon,  3 cups  cracker  crumbs, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a baking  pan  and  put  in  a layer  of 
salmon  and  then  a layer  of  cracker  crumbs  over  which  sprinkle  some  salt. 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  GAME,  ETC. 


130 


pepper  and  bits  of  butter ; add  another  layer  of  salmon  and  cracker  crumbs 
and  pour  over  enough  milk  to  come  to  the  edge  of  the  contents  and  bake. 

CROQUETTES. 

1.  Cheese  Croquettes. — The  beaten  white  of  1 egg,  % cup  of  grated 
cheese,  a dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  a little  salt.  Make  into  small  cro- 
quettes and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  egg  and  fry  a delicate  brown. 

2.  Rice  and  Beef  Croquettes. — Add  a little  salt  to  % cup  of  rice  and 
cook.  Chop  the  meat  fine,  take  one  part  of  rice  to  three  parts  of  meat,  season 
to  taste ; form  into  rolls,  roll  in  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  very  hot  lard.  Add  a little  onion  if  desired. 

3.  Macaroni  Croquettes. — Boil  half  a package  of  macaroni  in  salt  water 
until  soft.  A pint  of  cold  boiled  beef,  boiled  until  it  shreds.  Chop  both  to- 
gether until  very  fine;  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt;  roll  into  balls, 
dip  in  flour  and  brown  in  beef  suet  or  butter.  Beef  suet,  smoking,  gives 
the  croquettes  a prettier  brown  without  so  much  danger  of  burning  as  when 
browned  in  butter.  This  amount  will  make  16  croquettes. 

4.  Salmon  Croquettes. — One  can  of  salmon  with  liquor  drained  of¥, 
2 cups  of  mashed  potatoes  (use  while  warm),  2 eggs,  mustard,  celery  seed, 
nutmeg,  ground  cloves  and  allspice ; 1 tablespoonful  vinegar,  2 tablespoonfuls 
catsup,  a little  red  pepper  and  salt.  Form  into  any  desired  shape,  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Try  these.  They  are  vey  nice. 

5.  Veal  Croquettes. — Take  4 cups  of  cold  chopped  veal,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a little  lemon  juice.  One  cup  of  white  sauce,  mix  and  let  cool. 
When  cool  roll  them  in  shape  and  then  roll  in  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Fry 
in  hot  fat. 

6.  Rice  Croquettes. — To  1%  cups  of  cold  cooked  rice,  add  2 eggs,  % 
cup  of  flour,  1 tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  % teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  well, 
and  when  cold  mould  and  fry  as  other  croquettes. 

7.  Hominy  Croquettes. — To  a pint  of  cooked  hominy  add  2 tablespoon- 
fuls of  milk;  heat  and  add  1 tablespoonful  of  butter;  pepper,  salt,  parsley  and 
onion  juice  to  taste;  then  add  2 beaten  eggs  and  cook  until  thick;  when  cold 
form  into  croquettes  and  fry  as  other  croquettes. 

8.  Italian  Croquettes. — Take  1 cup  of  finely  chopped  vermicelli,  make 
a sauce  of  cup  each  of  flour  and  butter  and  a cup  of  strained  cooked  to- 
matoes. Add  14  cup  of  chopped  mushrooms,  the  vermicelli  and  season  highly 
with  salt  and  paprika.  Shape  and  fry  as  other  croquettes. 

9.  Sweet  Potato  Croquettes. — Work  1 tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  into  1 pint  of  hot  mashed  sweet  potatoes.  When  cold  mould 
into  shape,  dip  in  egg  then  in  crumbs  and  fry. 

10.  Oyster  and  Veal  Croquettes. — Two  cups  finely  chopped  veal,  1 pint 
raw  oysters  chopped  fine,  2 tablespoonfuls  butter,  yolks  of  4 eggs,  6 table- 
spoonfuls powdered  crackers  and  2 teaspoonfuls  onion  juice.  Soak  the 
crackers  in  the  oyster  liquor;  soften  butter  and  mix  all  ingredients.  Shape 
and  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry. 

11.  ‘ Potato  Croquettes. — To  a pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  add  1 table- 
spoonful of  butter,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  salt  and  pepper,  a little  onion  juice 
and  a little  parsley.  Cook  all  together  and  then  cool  and  make  into  balls  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 


140 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


SOUPS. 

(Including  Soup  Stocks,  Bouillon  and  Broths.) 


“ Let  onion  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 

And,  half  suspected,  animate  the  whole.” 

— Sidney  Smith. 

Always  use  cold  water  in  making  soups  as  the  juices  of  the  meat  are 
thus  extracted,  while  if  the  meat  is  put  into  hot  water  the  outer  part  is 
quickly  seared  and  the  juices  retained.  Use  a quart  of  water  to  a pound  of 
meat  and  allow  a quart  of  soup  for  three  or  four  persons.  It  is  very  necessary 
that  the  soup  be  thoroughly  skimmed  and  all  grease  should  be  removed. 
Long  and  slow  simmering  is  necessary  to  get  all  the  strength  from  the  meat 

There  are  two  kinds  of  soup  or  stock — white  and  brown.  The  white 
is  made  from  either  veal  or  fowls  while  the  brown  is  made  from  beef. 

In  making  vegetable  soups  cook  the  vegetables  separately  and  add  to 
the  soup  just  before  taking  from  the  fire.  Celery  seed  will  be  found  an  ex- 
cellent substitute  for  celery.  The  best  herbs  for  seasoning  soups  are  sage,  mint, 
tarragon,  sweet  marjoram,  thyme,  sweet  basil,  bay  leaves,  parsley,  cloves, 
mace,  celery  and  onions. 

Scorched  flour  or  burnt  sugar  are  used  to  color  soups.  Season  lightly 
at  first  for  more  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Never  put  soups  or  gravies  in  tin  or  copper  and  it  is  best  to  use  a wooden 
.spoon. 

1.  Asparagus  Soup. — Take  a can  of  asparagus,  1 pint  of  cream  or  milk, 
1 pint  of  white  stock,  1 tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  2 tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1 teaspoonful  sugar  and  % teaspoonful  pep- 
per. Cut  off  and  lay  aside  the  heads  of  asparagus,  cut  stalks  into  short  pieces 
and  put  them  on  to  boil  in  a stew  pan  with  the  stock.  Put  onion  and  butter 
in  a small  frying  pan  and  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  flour;  stir 
until  mixture  is  smooth  and  frothy,  but  not  brown.  Add  this,  together  with 
the  sugar,  pepper  and  salt,  to  the  stock  and  asparagus  and  simmer  for  15 
minutes;  then  rub  the  soup  through  a sieve  and  return  it  to  the  stew  pan. 
Add  cream  and  asparagus  heads  and  after  boiling  up  once,  serve  without 
delay.  In  case  fresh  asparagus  be  substituted  for  canned,  use  two  bunches. 
Cook  them  in  the  stock  or  water  for  20  minutes.  Remove  the  heads  for 
later  use  and  proceed  with  the  cooking  the  same  as  when  canned  asparagus 
is  used. 

2.  Bean  Soup. — Boil  1 quart  of  beans  until  soft,  rub  through  a colander 
to  remove  hulls.  Return  soup  to  the  fire,  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  add  a few  spoonfuls  of  cream;  serve  with  small  squares  of  toast.  Some 
prefer  corn  bread  with  bean  soup.  If  desired  a small  piece  of  bacon  may 
be  boiled  with  the  beans  as  it  adds  richness  and  flavor  to  the  soup. 

3.  Potato  Soup. — One  quart  of  milk  with  a small  onion  scalded  in  it, 
1 pint  mashed  potatoes,  1 heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  as  much  butter 
as  you  like;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

4.  Tomato  Soup. — Heat,  then  mash  fine  1 pint  of  tomatoes;  add  % 
teaspoonful  soda.  Pour  in  1 pint  or  more  if  desired.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
butter  and  a little  sugar.  Just  before  serving  add  rolled  crackers. 

5.  Noodles  for  Soup. — One  pint  of  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 


SOUPS. 


141 


der,  salt  and  as  much  water  as  1 egg  shell  will  hold ; roll  thin,  cut  into  narrow 
strips,  dry  them  and  boil  in  the  soup  for  10  or  15  minutes. 

6.  Tomato  Bisque. — One  quart  milk,  1 quart  tomatoes,  1 tablespoonful 
butter,  1 teaspoonful  soda,  1 tablespoonful  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  and 
strain  the  tomatoes.  Place  the  butter  in  basin,  when  hot  rub  in  the  flour, 
then  add  the  milk  slowly.  When  ready  to  serve  add  soda  to  tomatoes, 
then  the  thickened  milk.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  A stick  of  celery  boiled 
with  tomatoes  improves  the  flavor. 

7.  Celery  Soup. — One  head  celery,  1 pint  of  milk,  1 pint  of  water,  1 
tablespoonful  rice,  1 tablespoonful  butter,  1 tablespoonful  flour,  1 tablespoon- 
ful chopped  onion,  ^2  teaspoonful  pepper,  teaspoonful  salt.  Mash  and 
scrape  the  celery,  cut  into  half-inch  pieces,  put  it  into  a pint  of  boiling  water 
(salted)  and  cook  until  very  soft.  Mash  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled. 
Cook  the  onions  with  the  milk  in  a double  boiler,  ten  minutes,  and  add  it 
to  the  celery.  Rub  all  through  a strainer  and  put  it  on  to  boil  again.  Cook 
the  butter  and  flour  together  in  a small  sauce  pan  until  smooth,  but  not  brown, 
and  stir  into  boiling  soup.  Add  pepper  and  salt;  boil  5 minutes  and  strain 
into  tureen.  Serve  very  hot. 

8.  Soup  Stock. — Five  and  a half  quarts  of  cold  water,  1 shin  of  beef, 
1%  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  1 onion  with  several  cloves  stuck  in  it,  1 carrot, 
1 sprig  of  parsley,  1 stalk  of  celery  or  % teaspoonful  of  celery  seed,  1 turnip. 
Pour  water  on  the  meat,  add  pepper  and  salt,  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
to  heat  through  slowly;  in  about  30  minutes  put  over  a hot  fire  and  when 
it  begins  to  steam,  skim  and  cover  closely ; put  over  a moderate  fire,  allowing 
it  to  simmer  (not  boil)  for  three  or  four  hours;  add  vegetables,  allow  it  to 
boil  one  hour  longer,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  strain ; when  cold  take 
grease  from  the  top  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

9.  Bisque  of  Oysters. — One  pint  of  oysters,  1 pint  of  milk,  1 table- 
spoonful flour,  1 tablespoonful  butter,  yolk  of  one  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Drain  the  oysters,  adding  to  the  liquor  enough  cold  water  to  make 
1 cup  of  liquid.  Chop  half  of  the  oysters  fine ; bring  the  liquor  to  a boil, 
skim,  add  the  chopped  oysters  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Scald  the  milk,  rub 
the  flour  and  butter  together  until  smooth,  add  to  the  milk  and  stir  until  it 
thickens.  Add  the  whole  oysters  to  the  oyster  liquor  and  as  soon  as  their 
edges  curl,  remove  all  from  fire ; add  the  beaten  yolk  of  the  egg  to  the  milk ; 
take  at  once  from  the  fire  and  mix  with  the  oysters  and  their  liquor.  Season 
and  serve  at  once. 

10.  Vegetable  Soup. — Make  nice  stock  with  soup  bone,  6 potatoes  cut 
in  dice,  % head  cabbage,  2 onions  cut  fine,  2 pieces  celery  cut  fine,  % cup 
rice,  3 tomatoes  or  I/2  can. 

11.  White  Soup. — Boil  2 quarts  of  meat  broth ; beat  3 eggs  well ; 2 
cups  milk;  2 spoonfuls  flour;  pour  these  gradually  through  a sieve  into  the 
boiling  soup;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

12.  Clam  Soup. — Chop  fine  the  required  number  of  clams,  then  cook  in 
a little  water  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  when  almost  done,  put  in  milk  or 
cream  and  in  soup  enough  for  4 persons  put  1 cup  of  rolled  crackers.  Serve 
hot. 

13.  Split  Pea  Soup. — Take  2 pounds  of  split  peas,  wash  and  put  in  sauce 
pan  with  2 quarts  of  water  and  boil  for  an  hour ; drain  off  the  water  and  add 
4 quarts  of  good  strong  stock,  a ham  bone  and  1 onion  and  1 carrot  chopped 


112 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


together.  Let  all  boil  together  slowly  for  3 or  4 hours,  put  through  a sieve, 
season  to  taste  and  serve  with  toasted  bread. 

14.  Tomato  Soup. — Take  1 can  of  tomatoes,  3 small  onions  and  a pint 
of  water ; stew  for  1 hour,  remove  from  stove  and  strain  through  a sieve ; add 

* pepper,  salt,  butter  size  of  a walnut,  small  pinch  of  soda,  1 cup  of  milk ; let 
come  to  a boil ; crumble  into  this  4 soda  crackers. 

15.  Cream  of  Celery  Soup. — Boil  5 celery  roots,  if  they  may  be  had, 
in  salt  water  until  tender,  then  put  through  a fine  sieve;  heat  1 large  cup 
of  milk  and  1 quart  of  stock.  One  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  2 table- 
spoonfuls of  flour  mixed  to  a cream,  add  this  to  the  stock  and  celery  and 
boil  in  double  boiler  until  like  cream. 

16.  Bouillon. — Chop  1 pound  of  beef  (from  the  round)  in  very  small 
pieces,  and  cover  with  a pint  of  cold  water ; add  a sprig  of  parsley  and  a 
stalk  of  celery.  Stir  with  a wooden  spoon  until  the  meat  is  almost  white. 
Let  it  stand  away  from  the  fire  for  30  minutes.  Place  it  over  the  fire  and 
bring  quickly  to  the  boiling  point;  add  1 teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a little 
pepper.  Strain  through  a napkin,  color  with  caramel  and  it  is  ready  to 
server 

17.  Beef  Broth. — One  pound  of  lean  beef,  minced;  1 quart  of  cold 
water ; 2 tablespoonfuls  of  rice ; boil  1 hour,  strain,  and  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste. 


EGGS. 

Including  Various  Ways  of  Cooking  Eggs  and  Making  Omelets. 


“ New  laid  eggs  whose  praise 
Is  sung  by  pullets  with 
Their  morning  lays.” 

— Saxe. 

The  fresher  eggs  are,  the  better  and  more  wholesome  they  will  be. 
Eggs  over  a week  old  may  be  fried  but  should  not  be  boiled.  To  tell  good 
from  bad  eggs  they  should  be  put  into  water.  The  good  ones  will  lay 
on  their  side  while  those  that  turn  with  the  large  end  upward  are  bad  and 
should  be  rejected. 

When  eggs  are  plenty  and  cheap  they  may  be  preserved  for  future  use 
by  packing  in  salt,  being  careful  not  to  allow  them  to  touch.  It  seems 
to  be  a disputed  question  whether  the  large  or  small  ends  should  be  put 
down.  To  keep  eggs  for  one’s  own  use  they  may  be  dipped  in  melted 
wax  or  in  flax  seed  oil  or  rubbed  with  lard,  then  packed  in  oats  or  bran. 

The  eggs  of  ducks  and  geese  are  too  coarse  to  be  eaten  alone,  though 
they  are  frequently  used  in  cooking. 

In  breaking  eggs  they  should  be  broken  separately  over  a cup,  to  be 
sure  they  are  perfect.  The  shells,  washed,  may  be  saved  for  settling  coffee. 

In  poaching  eggs  the  hot  water  should  be  salted  and  if  a little  vinegar 
is  added  it  will  aid  in  setting  the  whites. 

Three  minutes  will  boil  an  egg  soft;  five  minutes  will  cook  the  Avhite 
hard  but  not  the  yolk;  eight  to  ten  minutes  will  cook  it  hard  clear  tlirough  ; 


EGGS. 


143 


ten  to  fifteen  minutes  will  cook  it  hard  enough  to  slice  or  to  serve  with 
salads. 

While  boiling  an  egg  eight  or  ten  minutes  renders  it  tough  and  harder 
to  digest,  if  it  be  boiled  for  half  an  hour  it  will  become  tender  and  mealy 
and  will  be  more  easily  digested  than  either  raw  or  soft  boiled  eggs.  When 
boiled  for  half  an  hour  eggs  may  often  be  eaten  by  sick  people  when  they 
cannot  eat  them  if  prepared  in  any  other  way.  For  this  reason  many  doctors 
now  recommend  them  for  convalescents. 

It  has  been  claimed  that  eggs  may  be  served  in  nearly  six  hundred  differ- 
ent ways.  However  this  may  be,  they  form  one  of  man’s  principal  articles 
of  diet  and  as  they  are  generally  obtainable  we  will  give  a number  of  the 
simpler  ways  of  preparing  them  so  that  the  housewife  may  perhaps  find 
several  new  ways  to  serve  this  nutritious  food. 

1.  Creamed  Eggs. — Have  a pan  of  a size  that  eggs  cannot  spread  much. 
Butter  it  thoroughly  and  break  eggs  into  it  carefully.  Put  small  pieces  of 
butter,  and  a tablespoonful  of  cream,  over  each  egg;  salt  and  pepper;  bake 
for  about  five  minutes  to  have  the  eggs  done ; to  have  them  hard  and  eat 
cold,  bake  longer. 

2.  Egg  Gems. — Mix  together  1 pint  of  bread  crumbs  and  1 pint  of 
chopped  meat;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a little  butter;  moisten  with  a 
little  milk  or  water;  heat  this  mixture  thoroughly;  fill  gem  on  patty  pans 
with  the  mixture;  break  an  egg  on  the  top  of  each  and  bake  until  the  eggs 
are  cooked.  Cold  roast  beef  or  pork  that  is  very  lean  will  be  especially  nice 
for  this  dish. 

3.  Ox  Eyes. — Cut  off  2-inch  pieces  from  a long,  round  loaf  of  bread ; 
carefully  cut  the  crust  and  scoop  a portion  out  of  the  center  of  each  piece; 
then  place  in  a deep  buttered  dish ; for  3 pieces,  beat  well  together  two  eggs 
and  add  a pinch  of  salt  and  % cup  of  milk ; baste  this  over  the  bread,  adding 
more  until  all  the  liquid  is  absorbed ; carefully  break  an  egg  into  the  cavity  in 
each  piece  and  bake  in  a hot  oven. 

4.  Baked  Eggs  with  Cheese. — Butter  and  place  a thin  piece  of  cheese 
in  the  bottom  of  each  egg  dish;  then  break  carefully  an  egg  into  each;  for 
each  egg  take  a tablespoonful  of  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  a dash 
of  paprika  and  salt  sprinkled  over  each  egg;  and  on  top  place  a bit  of  butter 
and  set  in  a hot  oven  until  eggs  are  set;  serve  at  once. 

5.  Eggs  in  Tomatoes. — Take  fine  tomatoes,  one  for  each  person  to  be 
served,  and  cut  top  off  each ; scoop  out  the  seeds  and  break  an  egg  into 
each  tomato;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  sprinkle  top  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

6.  Egg  Nest  Toast. — Toast  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  desired ; dip 
quickly  in  salted  water ; butter  and  put  into  a baking  pan  in  the  warming  oven. 
Take  as  many  eggs  as  you  have  slices  of  bread ; beat  whites  to  a stiff  froth ; 
place  a spoonful  on  each  slice  of  toast,  making  a little  dent  in  the  center 
in  which  place  the  yolk,  and  set  all  in  oven  to  brown  lightly ; be  very  careful 
not  to  break  any  of  the  yolks  as  they  look  very  pretty  in  each  nest. 

7.  Deviled  Eggs. — Cut  open  6 hard-boiled  eggs  and  make  the  filling 
of  the  yolks.  Mash  fine  with  fork;  add  1 teaspoonful  of  butter,  i/2  spoonful 
of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper  and  mustard  to  taste;  add  enough  vinegar 
to  moisten,  and  fill  the  whites;  a little  chopped  ham  or  lettuce  or  parsley 
or  cheese  may  be  added  if  wished.  .Served  on  lettuce  leaves. 

8.  Eggs  a la  Creole. — Butter  the  molds  well  (muftin  pans  will  do), 


144 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


scatter  finely  chopped  parsley  in  the  bottom  and  sides;  break  an  egg  into 
each  mold  and  steam  or  bake  until  the  white  is  set.  Plave  rice  thoroughly 
boiled  and  piled  in  the  center  of  an  oblong  dish,  with  eggs  arranged  around 
the  edge.  Pour  the  following  tomato  sauce  over  all : Two  cups  strained 

tomatoes,  1 tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  4 whole  cloves,  4 whole  peppers 
and  1 tablespoonful  each  of  parsley,  cornstarch,  butter  and  sugar;  let  boil  15 
minutes,  then  add  1 tablespoon ful  of  capers.  This  is  good  to  lock  upon  as 
well  as  to  eat  and  the  sauce  is  delicious  on  deviled  fish  of  all  kinds. 

9.  Shirred  Eggs. — Put  1 teaspoonful  of  cream  into  each  baking  cup, 
or  grease  gem  pans  and  break  an  egg  into  each.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  put  a small  bit  of  butter  on  top  when  no  cream  is  used.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  ten  minutes. 

10.  To  Coddle  an  Egg. — Put  the  egg  into  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
it  and  at  once  remove  the  water  from  the  stove  so  that  the  egg  will  cook 
slowly ; leave  it  in  the  water  for  7,  or  8 minutes.  When  broken  open  the 
white  should  look  like  jelly. 

11.  Baked  Eggs. — Break  eight  eggs  into  a dish  that  has  been  well 
buttered ; add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter ; 
bake  in  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes ; serve  while  very  hot. 

12.  Bird’s  Nest, — After  removing  the  shells  from  some  hard-boiled  eggs 
surround  the  eggs  with  forcemeat;  bake  or  fry  them  until  well  browned ; cut  in 
halves  and  place  in  the  dish  with  gravy. 

13.  Curried  Eggs. — Fry  two  sliced  onions  in  butter;  add  a pint  of  good 
stock  or  broth  and  a tablespoonful  of  curry  powder ; stew  till  onions  are 
tender;  add  a cup  of  cream  which  has  been  thickened  with  rice  flour  or  ar- 
rowroot ; simmer  a few  moments ; add  eight  or  ten  hard-boiled  eggs  which 
have  been  cut  in  slices  and  beat  them  well,  but  do  not  boil. 

14.  Escalloped  Eggs. — Place  a layer  of  bread  crumbs  moistened  with 
meat  broth  or  milk  into  a well-buttered  dish ; slice  hard-boiled  eggs  and  dip 
each  slice  in  a thick  drawn  butter  sauce  to  which  has  been  added  a well- 
beaten  egg;  put  a layer  of  these  slices  of  egg  upon  the  bread  crumbs;  upon 
the  layer  of  eggs  put  a thin  layer  of  minced  veal,  ham  or  chicken ; then  add 
another  layer  of  bread,  etc.,  finishing  with  dry,  sifted  bread  crumbs ; bake 
until  thoroughly  heated.  Another  way  is  to  mix  equal  parts  of  fine  bread 
crumbs  and  minced  ham  and  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  melted  butter; 
moisten  this  with  milk  until  quite  soft;  butter  the  gem  pans  and  fill  half  full 
of  this  mixture ; then  carefully  break  an  egg  upon  the  top  of  each ; dust 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  sprinkle  finely  powdered  crackers  over  all ; bake  in 
the  oven  for  eight  minutes  and  serve  at  once. 

15.  Frizzled  Ham  and  Eggs. — Prepare  the  skillet  with  butter  or  beef 
drippings  and  put  into  it  some  finely  chopped,  boiled  or  fried  ham ; pour  over 
this  from  four  to  six  well-beaten  eggs  and  after  it  is  heated  through  season 
with  pepper  and  salt;  stir  all  together;  cook  until  brown  and  turn  without 
stirring. 

IG.  Poached  Eggs. — Put  water  into  a shallow  stew  pan  over  the  fire 
and  add  salt  and  a tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  The  vinegar  aids  in  ‘‘  setting  ” 
the  egg.  When  the  water  boils,  carefully  break  the  eggs  into  it  one  at  a 
time,  let  them  simmer  two  minutes,  take  them  up  carefully  with  a strainer 
and  serve  on  toast  cut  into  fancy  shapes;  garnish  with  parsley. 

17'.  Fried  Eggs. — The  frying  pan  should  be  perfectly  clean  when  fry- 
ing  eggs ; butter,  dripping  or  cottonseed  oil  may  be  used.  As  soon  as  the 


^ EGGS. 


145 


pan  is  hot  break  the  eggs  into  a cup  and  put  them  one  at  a time  into  the 
pan.  As  they  fry  raise  the  eggs  from  the  bottom  and  give  them  a slight 
shake.  Dip  some  of  the  hot  butter  over  the  yolk.  They  will  be  done  in 
two  or  three  minutes  and  should  be  taken  out  and  the  grease  allowed  to 
drain  off.  Serve  on  slices  of  bacon. 

18.  Scrambled  Eggs. — Melt  a tablespoonful  of  butter  over  a hot  fire, 
add  four  beaten  eggs  and  stir  quickly  for  one  or  two  minutes.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Some  increase  the  quantity  by  adding  three-fourths  of  a cup 
of  milk.  The  butter  should  then  be  put  in  first  and  the  other  ingredients 
added  and  stirred  until  the  whole  thickens.  When  done  it  should  be  soft  and 
creamy.  Fine  served  on  toast. 

19.  Eggs  a la  Creme. — Slice  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  in  thin  rings. 
Spread  bits  of  butter  in  the  bottom  of  a deep  baking  dish  and  put  in  a layer 
of  bread  crumbs  and  then  a layer  of  the  sliced  eggs ; cover  with  bits  of  butter 
and  dust  on  pepper  and  salt.  Continue  thus  till  the  dish  is  nearly  full. 
Crumbs  spread  with  bits  of  butter  should  cover  all  the  eggs.  Over  the  whole 
pour  a pint  of  sweet  milk  or  cream  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven. 

20.  Eggs,  Newport  Style. — Soak  a pint  of  bread  crumbs  in  a pint  of 
milk.  Stir  the  soaked  crumbs  with  eight  eggs  beaten  very  light,  beating 
five  minutes.  Have  ready  a sauce  pan  containing  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  which  is  very  hot  but  not  scorching;  pour  in  the  mixture  of  eggs  and 
crumbs  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper  as  the  mixture  is  stirred  and 
scrambled.  Stir  quickly  with  the  point  of  a knife  for  three  minutes  or  until 
the  mixture  is  thoroughly  heated.  This  should  be  served  on  a hot  platter 
with  squares  of  buttered  toast. 

21.  Stuffed  Eggs. — Cut  six  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves,  take  out  the 
yolks  and  mash  them  fine;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cream,  two  of  butter, 
two  or  three  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  fill  the  whites  with  the  mixture  and  put  them  together.  To 
the  filling  which  is  left  add  a well-beaten  egg.  Cover  the  eggs  with  this 
mixture  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Put  into  boiling  fat  and  fry  a light 
brown. 

22.  Cupped  Eggs. — Take  the  required  number  of  cups  and  put  into 
each  a spoonful  of  highly  seasoned  brown  gravy ; have  a sauce  pan  of  boil- 
ing water  on  the  stove  and  set  the  cups  into  it  and  when  the  gravy  is 
heated  drop  an  egg  into  each  cup ; take  the  sauce  pan  off  the  stove  and 
keep  it  covered  close  until  the  eggs  are  cooked  tender;  dredge  with  salt  anff 
nutmeg.  Serve  in  a plate  covered  with  a napkin. 

23.  Eggs  a la  Mode. — Peel  a dozen  medium  sized  tomatoes  and  cut  them 
up  in  a sauce  pan;  add  salt,  pepper  and  a little  butter;  when  sufficiently 
boiled  add  six  beaten  eggs  just  before  serving  and  stir  one  way  for  two 
minutes. 

24.  Buttered  Eggs. — Heat  and  grease  the  muffin  irons ; break  an  egg 
into  each  ring;  put  salt,  pepper  and  a lump  of  butter  on  each;  set  in  the 
oven  until  slightly  browned ; remove  with  a fork  and  serve  hot. 

25.  Egg  Fricassee. — Warm  and  butter  well  some  individual  vegetable 
dishes,  break  a couple  of  eggs  into  each,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  bake 
till  the  whites  are  set,  serve  in  the  dishes  they  are  baked  in  and  garnish 
with  watercress. 

26.  Dropped  Eggs. — Lay  the  muffin  rings  in  a pan  of  boiling  salted 
water  and  carefully  drop  an  egg  into  each  ring.  When  the  whites  have  set 

2—10 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


j4f; 

take  the  eggs  up  with  care  and  lay  each  on  a piece  of  buttered  toast  that 
has  been  moistened  with  hot  water.  Sprinkle  each  with  salt  and  pepper. 

27.  Steamed  Eggs. — Break  the  eggs  into  a buttered  tin  plate  and  set 
in  a steamer  over  a kettle  of  boiling  water  and  steam  until  the  whites  are 
cooked.  They  will  keep  their  form  better  if  broken  into  patty  tins.  If 
cooked  in  this  way  the  whites  will  be  light  and  tender  and  not  leathery 
as  when  cooked  other  ways.  Excellent  for  invalids. 

28.  Frizzled  Eggs. — Put  a pinch  of  salt  and  a little  pepper  into  a tea- 
cup with  a piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a hazelnut.  Break  in  two  eggs  with- 
out stirring  and  set  the  cup  in  a pan  of  boiling  water.  When  the  whites 
are  set,  serve  at  once  in  the  cup  they  were  cooked  in. 

29.  Potted  Eggs. — Pound  the  yolks  of  a dozen  hard-boiled  eggs  with 
anchovy  sauce;  mix  to  a paste  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  season 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper.  Have 
ready  some  small  pots  and  while  filling  with  the  paste  strew  in  the  chopped 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Cover  the  tops  with  clarified  butter.  Can  not  be  kept 
long. 

30.  Eggs  a la  Suisse. — Spread  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  over  the  bot- 
tom of  a dish,  cover  with  grated  cheese  and  break  eight  whole  eggs  upon  the 
cheese  without  breaking  the  yolks.  Season  with  red  pepper  and  salt  if 
needed ; pour  a little  cream  over  the  eggs ; sprinkle  about  two  ounces  of 
grated  cheese  over  the  top  and  place  in  a moderate  oven  for  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Brown  by  passing  a hot  salamander  over  the  top. 

31.  Eggs  Brouille. — Cut  two  mushrooms  into  dice  and  fry  for  a minute 
in  a tablespoonful  of  butter.  Beat  together  six  eggs,  % cup  of  milk  or  cream, 
1 teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a little  pepper  and  put  them  in  a sauce  pan.  Add 
the  mushrooms  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  stir  over  a moderate 
fire  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
rapidly  until  the  mixture  becomes  thick  and  creamy.  Heap  the  mixture 
on  slices  of  toast  on  a hot  dish,  garnish  with  points  of  toast  and  serve  at 
once. 

32.  Pickled  Eggs. — Boil  sixteen  eggs  for  twelve  minutes,  dip  into  cold 
water  and  remove  the  shells.  Into  a stew  pan  put  one  quart  of  vinegar, 
one-half  ounce  of  Jamaica  pepper,  one-half  ounce  of  black  pepper  and  one- 
half  ounce  of  ginger;  simmer  for  ten  minutes.  Put  the  eggs  into  a jar  and 
pour  the  boiling  vinegar  over  them  and  when  cold  tie  a bladder  over  the 
jar  to  exclude  the  air.  In  a month  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 

33.  Eggs  a la  Bonne  Femme. — Boil  six  large  eggs  for  ten  minutes  and 
when  cool  carefully  remove  the  shells ; cut  in  halves  and  take  out  the  yolks. 
Cut  a small  piece  off  the  point  of  each  of  the  whites  that  they  may  stand 
on  end  like  cups.  Make  very  small  dice  of  cold  chicken,  ham,  boiled  beets 
and  the  eggs.  Fill  the  whites  to  the  brim  with  the  dice  and  pile  the  dice 
high  in  the  center — two  of  beets,  two  of  ham  and  chicken  and  two  of  hard 
yolks.  Put  some  lettuce  on  dish  and  arrange  the  eggs  amongst  it. 

34.  Breaded  Eggs. — Cut  some  hard-boiled  eggs  into  thick  slices ; salt 
and  pepper  each  slice  and  dip  it  into  beaten  raw  egg,  then  in  powdered  cracker 
crumbs  or  very  fine  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  very  hot  butter.  Drain  off 
all  the  grease  and  serve  while  hot. 

35.  Lunch  Eggs. — Remove  the  shells  from  the  desired  number  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  cut  the  eggs  lengthwise  in  halves.  Remove  the  yolks  and 


EGGS. 


147 


Cfumble  in  a bowl.  Add  pepper,  salt,  mustard  and  a b'ttle  melted  butter; 
mix  thoroughly,  fill  the  whites  with  the  mixture  and  serve. 

36.  Frothed  Eggs. — Mix  a tablespoonful  of  water  with  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  and  beat  it  up  with  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  the  yolks  of  eight 
Add  a pinch  of  salt  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Fry  carefully  (about  four  minutes) 
in  an  omelet  pan.  Have  ready  the  remaining  four  whites  whipped  to  a 
froth  with  a pound  of  fine  sugar  and  flavored  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Put  the 
omelet  on  a dish  and  heap  the  frothed  egg  over  it.  Brown  lightly  in  the 
oven.  For  four  persons. 

37.  Eggs  in  Paper  Cases. — Make  a seasoning  with  a cupful  of  fine 
bread  crumbs,  1 clove  of  garlic,  1 teaspoonful  of  green  onions,  1 teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Paint  thickly  the  inside  of  six  small 
paper  cases  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  a little  seasoning  into  each. 
Break  an  egg  into  each  case  and  cover  with  more  of  the  crumbs.  Bake  in 
a gentle  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set,  then  serve  in  the  cases.  The  eggs  may 
be  baked  in  small  molds  if  desired  and  then  turned  on  a dish  before  serving. 

OMELETS. 

As  will  be  seen  from  the  recipes,  opinions  differ  as  to  the  way  an  omelet 
should  be  made,  but  the  following  general  directions  have  given  good 
results. 

The  yolks  should  be  beaten  lightly.  Much  beating  will  make  them  too 
thin  and  it  is  said  that  twelve  beats  is  the  magic  number.  Add  the  milk, 
pepper,  salt  and  flour  if  it  is  used,  and  lastly  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  The  skillet  should  be  as  hot  as  possible  without  scorching  the 
butter ; after  putting  in  a tablespoonful  of  butter  the  omelet  should  be  poured 
in  and  it  should  begin  to  bubble  and  rise  in  flakes  at  once.  It  should  be  raised 
from  the  bottom  occasionally  with  a thin,  broad-bladed  knife  to  prevent 
burning.  Fold  over  as  soon  as  the  under  side  is  set  enough  to  hold  together. 
Shake  the  skillet  so  as  to  free  the  omelet,  slide  it  carefully  on  a hot  platter 
and  serve  at  once.  It  should  be  cooked  in  from  three  to  five  minutes. 

1.  Omelet. — One  cup  of  milk,  3 eggs,  1 heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  a little  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  separately ; stir  milk,  flour  and  eggs  together ; 
turn  into  a hot  frying  pan.  Cook  with  plenty  of  butter;  cut  in  quarters  and 
fold  over  the  other. 

2.  Potato  Omelet. — One  cup  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  put  again  through 
the  ricer ; 2 eggs,  beaten  separately ; salt ; drop  from  a spoon  on  a hot,  well- 
buttered  skillet ; when  brown  turn  and  brown  on  the  other  side.  Serve  at  once. 

3.  French  Omelet. — Thoroughly  beat  8 eggs  separately ; add  to  the 
yolks  8 tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  1 tablespoonful  of  flour,  1 tablespoonful 
of  good  baking  powder,  pepper  and  salt;  beat  well  together;  then  fold  in 
lightly  at  the  last,  the  beaten  whites.  Have  ready  a skillet  with  melted 
butter,  smoking  hot,  and  pour  in  the  mixture ; let  cook  on  bottom,  then  put  in 
oven  from  5 to  10  minutes ; serve  at  once. 

4.  Baked  Omelet. — One  cup  of  boiling  milk,  6 eggs,  1 teaspoonful  of 
cornstarch,  mixed  with  a little  cold  milk;  season  with’  salt  and  pepper;  beat 
the  yolks  of  eggs  light  and  pour  upon  them  the  boiling  milk  ; stir  in  the  corn- 
starch ; whip  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs ; have  dish  well  buttered  and  hot ; 
then  pour  in  omelet  and  bake  12  minutes,  or  until  set  in  middle.  Serve 
at  once. 


148 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PIOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


5.  Jelly  or  Marmalade  Omelet. — Make  a plain  omelet  and  just  before 
turning  one  half  over  the  other  spread  it  with  jelly  or  marmalade. 

6.  Ham  Omelet. — Make  a plain  omelet  and  sprinkle  on  some  finely 
chopped  ham  just  before  turning  one  half  over  the  other.  Garnish  with 
small  pieces  of  ham. 


VEGETABLES. 

Serenely  full  the  epicure  would  say — 

“ Fate  cannot  harm  me — I have  dined  to-day.” 

— Sidney  Smith. 

1.  Boston  Baked  Beans. — Wash  one  quart  of  small  white  beans  and 
soak  them  over  night  in  soft  water.  In  the  morning  drain  and  put  with 
them  1 pound  of  fresh  pork  and  boil  until  the  beans  begin  to  split  open. 
Put  them  in  a colander  and  rinse  with  cold  water;  then  put  about  half  of 
them  in  an  earthen  pot,  lay  in  the  pork,  cover  with  the  remainder  of  the 
beans.  Mix  1 tablespoonful  of  molasses  and  1 teaspoonful  of  mustard  with 
a teacup  of  water  and  pour  over  the  beans,  adding  enough  boiling  water  to 
cover.  Bake  4 hours,  adding  water  occasionally. 

2.  Corn  Oysters. — One  pint  of  green  corn,  or  canned  corn  will  do; 
a small  cup  of  flour,  1 well-beaten  egg,  1 tablespoonful  sweet  cream,  % tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Mix  well  and  fry  like  oysters  in  butter. 

3.  Corn  a la  Southern.— To  one  can  chopped  corn  or  kornlet  add  2 eggs 
slightly  beaten,  teaspoonful  pepper,  1 teaspoonful  of  salt,  1%  tablespoon- 
fuls melted  butter  and  1 pint  scalded  milk.  Turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish 
and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  firm. 

4.  Baked  Corn. — One  can  corn,  3 well-beaten  eggs,  2 tablespoonfuls 
-butter,  1 tablespoonful  sugar,  % pint  sweet  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ; 
thicken  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  an  hour.  Very  nice  for  a luncheon. 

5.  Corn  Pudding. — One  pint  grated  corn,  1 pint  of  milk  or,  if  canned 
corn  is  used,  then  less  milk,  1 tablespoonful  of  flour  wet  with  milk,  a pinch 
of  salt,  2 tablespoonfuls  sugar,  2 eggs,  a few  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Bake 
about  an  hour  in  a slow  oven.  Stir  when  beginning  to  brown. 

6.  Celery  on  Toast. — Use  coarse  stalks  of  celery  left  from  table;  scrape 
them  and  cut  into  half-inch  lengths;  cover  with  water  and  cook  very  slowly 
for  an  hour.  When  nearly  done  let  the  water  cook  away  until  almost  dry ; 
cover  with  a cream  dressing  made  of  milk,  butter  and  flour;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  serve  on  small  square  slices  of  toast,  keeping  as  hot  as 
possible. 

7.  Southern  Cabbage. — Chop  fine  a medium  sized  cabbage;  put  into 
a stew  pan  with  boiling  water  to  cover ; boil  15  minutes ; drain  off  all  the 
water  and  add  the  following  dressing:  % teacup  vinegar,  % as  much  sugar, 
pepper  and  salt,  % teaspoonful  salad  oil  or  butter.  When  boiling  hot  add  1 
teacupful  cream  or  milk  and  one  egg  stirred  together.  Mix  thoroughly  and  at 
once  with  cabbage  and  cook  a moment.  Serve  hot.  Very  delicate  and  good. 

8.  Cauliflower. — Trim  off  the  outside  leaves  from  cauliflowers  that  are 
close  and  white,  cut  off  the  stalk  flat  at  the  bottom,  let  them  lie  in  salt  and 
water,  heads  down,  for  an  hour  before  boiling.  Put  them  in  boiling  water 


VEGETABLES. 


149 


with  plenty  of  salt,  skim  it  well  and  let  cook  slowly,  and  take  up  as  soon  as 
done.  Too  much  cooking  will  spoil  it.  Cook  15  or  20  minutes,  according 
to  size  of  head.  Serve  with  white  sauce. 

9.  Egg  Plant. — Pare  the  egg  plant  and  slice  it  thin ; sprinkle  each  slice 
with  salt;  lay  slice  upon  slice  and  place  a plate  upon  the  top.  The  salt  will 
drain  out  the  disagreeable,  bitter  flavor.  Half  an  hour  before  serving  wipe 
each  slice  dry,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
plenty  of  hot  butter;  drain  on  a brown  wrapping  paper  as  they  come  from 
the  frying  pan,  crisp  and  brown.  Serve  at  once  on  a hot  platter. 

10.  Fried  Mushrooms. — Peel  the  mushrooms  and  put  into  butter;  let 
them  heat  thoroughly  through  (too  much  cooking  toughens  them) ; season 
well  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

11.  Escalloped  Onions. — Fill  a buttered  pudding  dish  with  alternate 
slices  of  onions  and  cracker  crumbs  (some  prefer  flour)  ; season  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  the  whole  a cup  of  milk.  Bake  slowly  for  30 
minutes  or  until  the  onions  are  done. 

12.  Baked  Onions. — Boil  the  onions  in  salt  water  until  tender.  Put  in 
a well  buttered  pan,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  and  bake  till  done. 

13.  Creamed  Potatoes. — Peel  the  potatoes  and  cut  into  half-inch  dice. 
Cover  with  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Drain  and,  for  every  pint  of  po- 
tatoes, add  a cup  of  cream  sauce  made, as  follows:  Cook  1 tablespoonful  each 
of  flour  and  butter  together  until  they  bubble ; then  add  slowly,  while  stir- 
ring, 1 pint  of  hot  milk  with  salt  and  a very  little  pepper,  and  the  whole 
should  be  stirred  and  cooked  to  a thick  cream.  Left-over  potatoes  may  be 
used  for  this  dish.  Place  them  in  a stew  pan  and  cover  with  milk,  let  simmer 
until  milk  is  absorbed.  Add  the  cream  sauce. 

14.  Stuffed  Potatoes. — Wash  some  fine  large  potatoes  and  bake  until 
just  done;  remove  from  the  oven  and  cut  in  halves  and  remove  the  inside; 
mash  this  until  very  smooth  and  season  with  butter  and  salt  or  cream  and  salt. 
Refill  the  shells ; place  in  a shallow  pan  with  uncut  end  down  and  return  to 
ov-en  for  15  minutes,  or  until  a delicate  brown,  and  serve  immediately. 

15.  Potato  Fluff. — Boil  a dozen  medium  sized  potatoes  until  tender. 
When  done  remove  the  skins  and  rub  through  a colander;  add  % pint  of 
hot  milk  or  cream  and  2 tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Beat  until  soft  and  then 
stir  in  carefully  the  well-beaten  whites  of  3 eggs.  Heap  in  a baking  dish 
and  bake  in  the  oven.  Serve  at  once. 

16.  Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes. — Wash  and  pare  half  a dozen  medium  sized 
potatoes.  Cook  10  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water ; drain,  cut  in  halves  length- 
wise, and  put  in  buttered  pan.  Make  a syrup  by  boiling  % cup  sugar,  1 
tablespoonful  butter  and  2 tablespoonfuls  water,  3 minutes.  Brush  potatoes 
with  syrup  and  bake  15  minutes,  basting  twice  with  remaining  syrup. 

17.  Spinach. — Pick  and  wash  the  spinach  with  great  care ; drain  it  and 
throw  it  into  boiling  water;  cook  only  a few  minutes.  Press  out  all  the  water; 
put  spinach  into  a stew  pan  with  a piece  of  butter,  some  salt  and  pepper, 
chopping  it  while  cooking.  Serve  it  with  poached  eggs,  or  hard-boiled  eggs 
sliced  or  grated  over  the  top. 

18.  Squash  Cakes. — One  cup  of  squash,  sifted ; 3 cups  of  flour  or  enough 
to  mix  thick  with  a spoon,  1 tablespoonful  vinegar,  1 tablespoonful  butter, 
salt,  1 egg,  1 cup  milk,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Bake  in  gem  pans  in 
a quick  oven,  or  put  on  a pan  by  spoonfuls  and  bake  as  drop  cakes. 


150 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


19.  Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oyster. — Prepared  as  vegetable  or  soup  this 
is  a most  delicious  vegetable  if  properly  cooked.  They  should  be  scraped 
under  water  or  they  will  turn  brown  and  they  should  be  served  as  soon  as 
taken  from  the  stove.  When  used  as  a vegetable,  cut  lengthwise;  cut  in 
short  pieces  and  cook  until  tender ; drain ; and  season  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  and  cream,  if  desired.  When  used  for  soup,  cut  crosswise  in  thin 
slices  and  cook  slowly  for  a long  time.  A little  salt  codfish  added  is  a great 
improvement. 

20.  Roasted  Tomatoes. — Dip  the  tomatoes  into  hot  water  and  remove 
the  skins;  cut  a piece  from  the  stem  end  and  scoop  out  a little  of  the  pulp 
and  place  a small  piece  of  butter  in  the  cavity;  dust  with  salt  and  a little 
cayenne  pepper;  replace  the  top;  sprinkle  with  crumbs.  Put  a little  piece  of 
butter  on  each  and  place  on  a slice  of  bread ; cut  out  with  a biscuit  cutter ; 
put  into  a baking  pan  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven  15  or  20  minutes. 

21.  Tomatoes  a la  Spanish. — Peel  tomatoes  without  scalding  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.  To  each  pint  of  tomato  add  1 small  onion,  % teaspoonful 
salt,  1 teaspoonful  sugar  and  i/2  small  green  hot  pepper,  leaving  out  seeds. 
Cut  onion  and  pepper  very  fine  and  add  2 tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Eaten 
as  a relish. 

22.  Escalloped  Potatoes. — Peel  and  slice  the  potatoes  and  place  a layer 
in  a baking  dish ; sprinkle  with  flour ; season  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter ; 
repeat  this  until  pan  is  nearly  full;  cover  with  milk  or  cream  and  bake  until 
potatoes  are  done. 

23.  Potato  Croquettes. — Pass  6 boiled  potatoes  through  a sieve  and  add 
to  them  3 tablespoonfuls  of  ham  grated  or  minced  fine,  a little  grated  nut- 
meg, salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  chopped  parsle)^ ; work  the  yolks  of  3 or 
4 eggs  into  this  mixture,  then  make  in  balls  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry. 

24.  Corn  and  Tomatoes. — Cook  the  desired  amount  of  tomatoes ; then 
cut  the  corn  from  several  cobs  that  have  been  boiled,  add  to  tomatoes  and 
season  well;  cook  until  corn  is  thoroughly  heated;  if  the  mixture  is  too  thin, 
add  more  corn. 

25.  Stewed  Onions. — Peel  and  boil  the  onions  in  salted  water  till  tender, 
changing  water  twice  while  boiling ; drain ; add  milk  and  flour  enough  to 
slightly  thicken  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

26.  Fried  Egg  Plant. — Peel  and  cut  in  slices  about  % inch  thick,  sprinkle 
with  a little  salt  and  let  it  stand  1 or  2 hours;  then  dip  first  in  beaten  egg. 
then  in  cracker  dust  and  fry  in  hot  butter ; season  with  pepper  and  salt  while 
frying;  serve  while  hot. 

27.  Potatoes  on  Half  Shell. — Bake  3 potatoes;  carefully  cut  them  in 
halves  lengthwise ; scoop  out  in  hot  bowl ; mash  and  add  1 even  tablespoonful 
butter,  1 tablespoonful  hot  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ; beat  whites  of  2 
eggs  stiff  and  mix;  fill  the  skins  with  this  mixture  and  brown  in  oven. 

28.  Escalloped  Corn. — One  can  corn,  1 quart  milk,  % pound  rolled 
crackers,  1 tablespoonful  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  bake  brown  in  a 
quick  oven. 

29.  Potato  Rolls. — Roll  out  a light  biscuit  dough  about  % ii^ch  thick, 
then  cut  the  potatoes  about  the  same  thickness  and  lay  them  on  the  crust 
and  then  roll  up  and  put  in  the  pan  with  your  roast,  having  plenty  of  water 
in  the  pan ; after  roast  is  done,  lift  your  roll  out  on  a plate ; then  make  a 
gravy  and  serve  with  roll.  This  is  fine. 

30.  Carrots  with  Milk. — Wash,  scrape  and  slice  the  carrots;  boil  soft, 


RELISHES,  CHEESE  AND  CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY  151 


drain,  almost  cover  with  milk,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  make 
thickening  with  milk  and  flour;  stir  in  carrots,  let  boil  a few  minutes  and 
serve. 

31.  Potato  Puffs. — Stir  2 tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  into  2 cups 
of  cold  mashed  potatoes ; beat  to  a cream  and  then  add  2 beaten  eggs,  1 
cup  of  milk  and  salt  to  taste ; pour  into  a deep  dish  and  bake  in  a quick  oven. 

32.  Escalloped  Tomatoes. — Put  a layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  a buttered 
dish,  then  a layer  of  tomatoes,  then  a layer  of  coi^n;  sprinkle  with  pepper, 
salt  and  bits  of  butter  (a  little  onion  may  be  added  if  desired)  ; then  an- 
other layer  of  crumbs,  another  of  tomatoes,  corn  and  seasoning,  until  the 
dish  is  filled;  the  corn  may  be  omitted,  it  is  just  as  good  without. 

33.  Stewed  Cucumbers. — Slice  cucumbers  in  pieces  % inch  thick ; boil 
10  minutes  in  hot  water ; drain ; then  add  milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  ; 
boil  5 minutes. 

34.  Roast  Pork  and  Lima  Beans. — Put  roast  of  pork  into  large  roast 
pan,  leave  room  enough  on  each  side  for  vegetables ; cook  1 pint  of  lima 
beans  tender,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  put  in  roast  pan  on  one 
side  of  meat,  potatoes  on  the  other  side ; cook  until  all  are  done.  The  beans 
should  be  a light  brown. 

35.  French  Stew. — One  pound  fresh,  lean  pork,  cut  in  pieces ; 2 cups 
potatoes  cut  in  dice ; 3 good  sized  onions ; water  to  cover  the  whole ; pepper 
and  salt  to  taste ; cook  slowly  for  45  minutes. 

36.  Fried  Tomatoes. — Slice  thickly  some  ripe  tomatoes,  dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  brown  in  skillet  with  hot  butter,  turning  often. 
After  tomatoes  are  taken  out  make  a dressing  by  adding  milk  and  flour  to 
what  remains  in  skillet.  Pour  over  tomatoes.  Salt  to  taste. 

37.  Corn  Mock  Oysters. — One-half  dozen  ears  of  young  sweet  corn 
grated,  3 tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  1 teaspoonful  salt,  1 egg,  1 teacup- 
ful of  flout ; drop  with  a spoon  into  hot  fat  or  butter  and  fry  as  oysters. 


RELISHES,  CHEESE,  AND  CHAFING  DISH 

COOKERY. 

Some  are  to  be  tasted,  others  to  be  swallowed,  and  some  to  be  chewed  and 

digested. — Bacon. 

1.  Macaroni  and  Cheese. — Boil  % box  of  macaroni  in  salted  soft 
water,  wash  in  cold  water,  grate  a pound  of  cheese  (cream  preferred),  mix 
cheese  with  1 pint  of  bread  crumbs ; place  macaroni  in  baking  dish  with 
cheese  and  crumbs  over  it;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter;  almost  cover 
with  milk  and  set  in  oven  until  brown. 

2.  A Delicious  Omelet. — Four  well  beaten  eggs,  1 cup  of  milk  in  which 
is  soaked  1/2  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  salt  to  season ; mix  all  and  pour  in  a hot 
frying  pan  in  which  is  a geperous  piece  of  butter ; cook  slowly  for  10  minutes 
and  turn  out  on  a hot  platter. 

3.  Nut  Loaf  (A  Vegetarian  Dish). — One  cup  rolled  crackers,  1 cup 
chopped  English  walnuts,  beaten  yolks  of  2 eggs,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  2 teaspoonfuls  sugar,  stir  in  a large  cup  of  sweet  milk,  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  2 eggs,  put  in  a deep  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a slow  oven. 


152 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


4.  Deviled  Eggs. — Remove  the  shells  from  cold  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut 
in  halves  and  remove  the  yolks,  put  in  a bowl ; add  pepper,  salt,  butter  and 
vinegar  to  taste ; mix  it  well  with  a spoon  until  smooth,  then  put  the  mixture 
back  in  the  whites ; fine  for  lunch. 

5.  Cheese  Fouder. — To  one  cup  of  rolled  crackers  add  1/2  pint  of  milk, 
beaten  yolks  of  2 eggs,  small  cup  of  grated  cheese,  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
to  a stiff  froth ; mix  gently  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a quick  oven. 

6.  Plain  Rarebit. — One-half  pound  finely  cut  cheese,  2 tablespoonfuls 
butter,  pepper  to  taste  and  a pinch  of  salt,  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  yolks  of 
2 eggs;  melt  the  butter  and  add  cheese,  salt  and  pepper;  when  the  cheese 
is  partly  melted,  add  gradually  the  cream  and  the  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten; 
pour  this  over  a piece  of  toasted  bread  cut  in  small  squares. 

7.  Creamed  Chicken  and  Mushrooms. — Melt  2 tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
with  2 of  flour,  season  with  % teaspoonful  of  celery  salt  and  salt  and  pepper; 
stir  until  smooth,  then  stir  in  gradually  1 cup  of  hot  milk.  When  it  has 
become  smooth  and  thickened,  add  2 cups  of  cold  cooked  chicken  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  % can  of  mushrooms  cut  in  halves.  Stir  carefully  until  hot  and 
serve  on  toast  or  in  patty  shells. 

8.  Creamed  Oysters. — Add  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  2 tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  mix  without  browning,  add  % cup  of  cream  and  the  liquor 
from  a quart  of  oysters.  Stir  until  it  boils ; add  % teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a dash  of  white  pepper,  with  a quart  of  drained  oysters;  cook  well  and  serve 
very  hot  on  toast  or  large  crackers. 

9.  Corn  Oysters. — Mix  in  a dish  1 well  beaten  egg  and  one  cup  of 
chopped  corn,  also  % cup  of  flour ; season  highly  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
drop  the  mixture  with  a spoon  to  the  size  of  a large  oyster  on  the  hot,  well- 
buttered  blazer. 

10.  Clams  a la  Newburg. — Melt  2 tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  stir  until 
creamy,  then  add  1 gill  of  sherry.  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  2 eggs,  and 
% pint  of  cream,  add  and  stir  constantly;  when  well  mixed  stir  in  one  pint 
of  clams  well  trimmed  and  cook. 

11.  Cheese  Fondu. — Put  a tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a dish ; when 
melted  add  1 cup  of  milk,  2 cups  of  grated  cheese,  1 cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 
saltspoonful  of  mustard  and  a pinch  of  cayenne.  Stir  constantly  and  add 
just  before  serving  2 well  beaten  eggs. 

12.  Chocolate  Souffle. — Melt  2 ounces  of  chocolate;  add  4 tablespoonfuls 
of  hot  water  and  V2  cup  of  granulated  sugar;  cook  until  smooth;  then  add 
% cup  of  cream  and  % cup  of  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  in  the  yolks 
of  2 eggs  mixed  with  1 tablespoonful  of  cream  and,  when  slightly  thick- 
ened, fold  in  the  whites  beaten  stiff ; cook  10  minutes  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

13.  Fricassee  of  Dried  Beef. — Melt  1 tablespoonful  of  butter,  with  % 
pint  of  milk,  or  cream  sauce ; add  1 cup  of  beef  chopped  fine  (that  has  been 
soaked  in  boiling  water  for  15  minutes)  and  2 beaten  eggs  and  stir  until  the 
sauce  is  thick.  Serve  on  toast. 

14.  Creamed  Chicken. — One  cup  milk,  2 tablespoonfuls  butter,  2 table- 
spoonfuls flour,  salt  and  pepper,  2 cups  chicken  meat  cut  fine.  Make  sauce 
as  in  shrimp  wiggle  and  add  chicken,  stirring  until  hot ; serve  on  toast  or 
crackers.  Lobster,  dried  beef,  sweetbreads  or  crab  meat  may  be  used  instead 
of  chicken. 


RELISHES,  CHEESE  AND  CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY.  153 


15.  Deviled  Crabs. — Two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  2 tablespoonfuls  flour, 
2 tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine,  1 cup  chopped  crab  meat,  % cup  milk,  % cup 
chopped  mushrooms,  yolk  of  1 egg,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Make  sauce 
with  butter,  flour  and  milk ; stir  in  yolk  of  egg  beaten  slightly,  then  wine ; 
now  add  crab  meat,  mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  hot  with  cheese 
sandwiches  or  wafers. 

16.  Dreams. — Take  2 pieces  of  bread  of  medium  thickness  and  put 
between  them  a thin  piece  of  mild  American  cheese  and  toast  to  a good  brown 
in  hot  butter. 

17.  Fricasseed  Eggs. — To  some  veal  gravy  add  a little  flour  and  cream, 
butter  the  size  of  a walnut,  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  chopped  parsley  and  a 
few  pickled  mushrooms.  Let  the  mixture  boil  up  well,  then  pour  it  over 
sliced  hard-boiled  eggs ; arrange  on  a platter  with  small  bits  of  toast. 

18.  Fruit  Canopes. — Beat  2 eggs  with  % cup  of  milk,  1%  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  and  V2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Dip  into  this  small  pieces  of  bread  and 
saute  them  in  the  hot,  buttered  blazer  over  direct  heat.  On  these  pieces 
of  toast  spread  a spoonful  of  fig  paste,  orange  marmalade  or  pineapple  and 
canned  peadies ; garnish  with  whipped  cream. 

19.  Halibut  a la  Hollandaise. — Take  cooked  and  flaked  halibut  and 
cook  in  Hollandaise  sauce,  made  as  follows: — Take  % cup  of  butter  and 
wash  to  remove  the  salt,  then  divide  into  3 pieces ; put  1 piece  into  the 
blazer  and  add  the  yolks  of  2 eggs  and  a tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 
Stir  constantly  until  the  butter  is  melted,  then  add  the  second  piece  of 
butter  and,  as  it  thickens,  add  the  third  piece,  also  % cup  of  boiling  water. 
Season  with  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a dash  of  cayenne. 

20.  Shrimp  Wiggle. — One  cup  milk,  2 tablespoonfuls  butter,  2 table- 
spoonfuls flour,  salt  and  pepper,  1 can  of  shrimp,  1 can  of  peas ; put  butter 
in  chafing  dish;  when  melted  add  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  stirring  until  smooth; 
add  milk  slowly.  When  the  sauce  is  hot  add  peas  and  shrimp  (having  drained 
both  on  taking  them  from  the  cans)  and  cook  until  heated  through.  Serve 
with  salted  crackers  or  wafers. 

21.  Sardines  on  Toast. — Drain  sardines;  heat  them  through,  turning 
frequently ; serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

22.  Welsh  Rarebit. — One  pound  chopped  cream  cheese,  % glass  of  beer 
or  ale,  yolk  of  1 egg,  1 teaspoonful  butter,  i/o  teaspoonful  dry  mustard,  a 
dash  of  red  pepper  and  a little  salt.  Melt  the  butter;  then  add  the  cheese, 
stirring  all  the  time.  When  the  cheese  begins  to  melt,  gradually  pour  in 
the  beer.  When  they  are  well  blended  add  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  salt,  red  pep- 
per and  mustard.  Stir  in  well,  then  pour  on  toast  or  crackers 

23.  Cheese  Balls. — Grate  % pound  of  cheese,  add  the  yolk  of  1 egg,  a 
very  little  red  pepper,  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts,  and  enough 
sweet  cream  to  roll  into  balls,  size  of  an  English  walnut;  roll  balls  in  finely 
chopped  parsley.  Serve  with  wafers  and  coffee  the  last  course. 

24.  Cheese  Ramekins. — Mix  chopped  or  grated  cheese  with  bread 
crumbs,  cup  of  cheese  to  1 cup  of  crumbs ; cover  with  milk  and  bake  for 
15  or  20  minutes.  This  should  be  baked  and  served  in  individual  ramekin 
dishes.  One-half  cup  of  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs  can  be  added  if  desired. 

25.  Cheese  Straws. — Yolks  of  3 eggs,  1 pound  of  grated  cheese,  1 tea- 
spoonful of  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  of  salt,  1 teaspoonful  of  ground  mace,  and  a 
pinch  of  red  pepper.  Mix  all  together  with  enough  flour  to  make  dough,  as  for 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


rr,4 


pie  crust.  Roll  very  thin  and  cut  into  strips  as  narrow  or  as  long  as  desired. 
Lay  separately  in  greased  pan.  Bake  in  a quick  oven  to  a light  brown. 

26.  Cheese  Sauce  for  Potatoes. — One  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1 table- 
spoonful of  butter,  % oI  milk,  1/4  pound  cheese,  grated;  melt  the  butter 
in  a pan ; add  flour  and  stir  until  smooth ; stir  the  milk  in  gradually  and 
add  the  cheese.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  with  mashed  potatoes. 

27.  Mexican  Macaroni. — Into  a tablespoonful  of  hot  browned  butter 
stir  1 cup  of  cooked  macaroni,  1 large  tomato,  1 small  onion,  salt  and  paprika. 
When  v/ell  browned  add  1 cup  of  soup  stock ; pour  into  a buttered  pan  and 
cover  the  top  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs;  bake  half  an  hour. 

28.  Spaghetti. — Break  into  small  pieces  2 cups  of  spaghetti  and  boil 
in  salted  water  until  perfectly  tender.  Butter  a baking  dish,  cover  the 
bottom  with  a layer  of  spaghetti,  then  a layer  of  tomatoes,  then  a layer  of 
cheese;  season  each  layer  with  paprika,  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  dish 
is  full,  finish  ol¥  with  the  cheese  and  pour  over  this  enough  milk  or  cream 
to  cover  to  the  top  of  the  pan.  Bake  slowly  2 hours,  until  it  is  rather  dry 
and  a rich  brown. 


THE  ART  OF  CANDY  MAKING. 

These  Secrets,  Obtained  from  an  Expert  Confectioner,  Enable  the  Housewife 
from  a few  Recipes  to  Make  Endless  Varieties  of  Candy,  Including 
Chocolates,  Bonbons,  Fudges,  Taffies,  Caramels,  Etc. 

“ Sweets  for  the  Sweet.” 


At  certain  seasons  and  on  special  occasions,  especially  at  Christmas 
time,  every  housewife  desires  to  know  something  of  the  art  of  candy  making 
and  to  make  in  her  own  kitchen  and  with  ordinary  cooking  utensils,  some 
of  the  sweets  displayed  so  temptingly  in  the  up-to-date  confectionery  stores. 
Candy  making,  to  the  layman,  is  a mysterious  art  suggestive  of  bright  copper 
kettles,  white  marble  slabs,  massive  cooking  furnaces,  a confusion  of  ex- 
pensive machinery  and  white-aproned  experts  with  years  of  experience  and 
a knowledge  of  many  recipes  and  secret  processes,  together  with  a wealth  of 
capital. 

And  for  the  most  part  confectioners  aim  to  keep  all  knowledge  of  their 
art  to  themselves  and  for  this  reason  but  few  really  good  recipes  find  their 
way  into  the  popular  cook  books,  while  no  knowledge  of  the  principles  under- 
lying the  art  are  made  public.  The  writer,  having  had  years  of  experience 
and  having  now  retired  from  business,  makes  known  for  the  first  time 
candy  secrets  obtained  from  confectioners  whose  whole  lives  have  been 
devoted  to  the  work  and  who  are  now  operating  some  of  the  finest  stores 
in  the  East.  Candies  made  from  several  of  these  recipes  have  taken  prizes 
in  New  York  City  in  competition  with  the  best  artists  of  the  world.  Of 
course  better  results  are  obtained  after  one  has  had  experience  in  the  work 
and  yet  we  will  endeavor,  even  at  the  expense  of  repetition,  to  make  the  proc- 
ess so  clear  that  the  amateur,  by  carefully  following  the  instructions  given, 
may  achieve  results  rivaling  the  products  of  the  experienced  confectioners 


THE  ART  OF  CANDY  MAKING. 


155 


both  in  quality  and  appearance,  and  yet  have  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  it 
is  “ home-made.” 

The  professional  candy  maker  uses  expensive  machinery  and  endless 
paraphernalia,  not  because  they  are  necessary  to  good  results,  but  because 
he  manufactures  in  large  quantities  and  the  saving  of  time  and  labor  is 
essential. 

PRECAUTIONS  TO  PREVENT  SUGARING  OR  GRAINING  IN  MAK- 
ING ALL  KINDS  OF  CANDY.— 

In  making  all  candies,  except  those  that  scorch  easily,  as  soon  as  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  and  it  begins  to  boil  it  is  well  to  cover  the  vessel  for  a 
short  time,  say  two  or  three  minutes,  that  the  steam  may  soften  any  sugar 
sticking  to  the  sides  of  the  kettle,  then  to  take  a damp  cloth  and  carefully 
remove  all  undissolved  sugar.  This  is  important  that  the  candy  may  not 
“ grain  ” or  turn  back  to  sugar.  If  the  candy  is  one  that  easily  burns  and 
requires  stirring  the  kettle  must  be  cleaned  without  steaming. 

Either  pure  glucose  or  cream  of  tartar  are  generally  used  to  prevent 
“ sugaring.”  Vinegar  will  do  but  is  not  so  sure.  Be  careful  also  that  there 
is  no  sugar,  not  even  a few  grains,  on  the  platter  or  marble  upon  which  the 
candy  is  poured.  Needlessly  stirring  or  handling  the  batch  while  cooling 
will  sometimes  cause  “ graining.”  In  spite  of  all  precautions  this  will  some- 
times happen.  It  must  then  be  covered  with  water,  again  placed  on  the 
stove  and  re-cooked  but  will  seldom  be  as  nice  as  when  cooked  but  once. 

COLORS. 

If  desired,  the  colors  for  candies  may  be  made  at  home  instead  of  being 
purchased  at  a confectionery. 

For  Red. — Take  one-half  pint  of  water,  add  one  ounce  of  cochineal  and 
boil  for  five  minutes  and  add  one-half  ounce  of  powdered  alum,  one  ounce 
of  cream  of  tartar  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Take  from  stove  and  stir  at 
once  in  two  ounces  of  sugar  and  bottle  for  use. 

For  Blue. — Rub  indigo  in  a little  water  in  a saucer. 

For  Yellow. — Rub  gamboge  in  water  in  same  way. 

For  Green. — Boil  spinach  leaves  in  a little  water  for  one  minute,  strain 
and  bottle. 

TESTING— HOW  TO  TELL  WHEN  THE  CANDY  IS  DONE  OR  HOW 
LONG  IT  SHOULD  BE  COOKED.— 

Candies  are  cooked  for  a short  or  long  time,  according  as  a low  or 
high  degree  of  heat,  or  temperature,  is  desired.  Soft  candies  are  cooked  but 
a short  time  as  only  a low  degree  of  temperature  is  needed.  Hard  candies 
are  cooked  longer  or  to  a higher  degree.  For  trying  or  testing  the  temperature, 
so  as  to  know  when  the  candy  is  done  and  should  be  removed  from  the  stove, 
the  confectioner  generally  uses  a thermometer  which  he  places  in  the  boiling 
syrup,  but  as  one  fit  for  this  purpose  is  rather  expensive  the  housewife  will 
find  it  more  practical  to  try  or  test  the  candy  by  dropping  a little  of  the 
boiling  syrup  into  cold  water.  The  confectioner  uses  his  finger  for  this 
purpose  by  first  wetting  it  in  cold  water,  but  it  is  safer  for  the  beginner 
to  use  a spoon.  The  longer  the  candy  cooks,  or  the  higher  the  degree  of 
temperature,  the  harder  will  it  become  when  a little  is  thus  chilled  in  cold 
water.  One  should  try  or  test  it  frequently  in  this  manner  as  it  takes  but  a 
few  moments  over  a hot  fire  to  raise  it  from  a low  to  a high  degree.  In 


156 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


spite  of  care,  should  it  be  left  on  too  long  and  be  too  hard  when  tested, 
add  a little  water  to  reduce  it  back  and  cook  until  it  is  of  the  right  consistency 
when  tested  again. 

Below  we  give  a table  that  will  enable  you  to  test  properly  and  tell  when 
the  candy  is  done.  I'hen  under  each  recipe  we  refer  you  to  this  table  so 
that  you  may  know  just  how  long  each  candy  should  cook.  Much  of  your 
success  depends  upon  removing  the  candy  from  the  stove  at  the  right  time. 
It  will  be  seen  from  this  table  that  if  candy  be  boiled  a short  time  and  then 
a little  be  dropped  into  cold  water  it  can  just  be  felt  with  the  finger  or  seen 
as  syrup  or  molasses  in  the  water.  This  is  called  the  smooth  (No.  1,  below). 
If  cooked  a little  longer  and  then  dropped  into  water  it  will  stick  or  cling 
to  the  finger  but  is  still  too  soft  to  give  shape  or  roll  into  a ball.  This  is  the 
thread  (No.  2,  below).  If  cooked  still  longer  and  again  tested  it  may  be  rolled 
between  the  fingers  into  a soft  ball  and  is  called  the  soft  ball  or  feather  (No.  3, 
below).  And  so  it  continues  to  get  harder  through  the  various  degrees  until 
if  cooked  long  enough  and  again  tested  it  becomes  very  hard  when  cooled 
in  water  and  may  be  broken  like  glass  in  the  fingers.  This  is  the  dry  crack 
(No.  7,  below).  If  a thermometer  were  put  into  the  boiling  candy  it  would 
be  found  at  the  various  stages  to  register  the  degrees  given  with  each  testing. 
This  table  may  be  used  in  cooking  icings  and  frostings  as  well  as  candies. 
Use  cold  water. 

TESTING  TABLE. 

No.  1. — The  Smooth  (218  degrees).  The  boiling  syrup  or  candy  can 
just  be  detected  when  dropped  into  water  and  is  about  the  consistency  of 
molasses.  (Used  for  crystallizing  creams,  candies,  etc.) 

No.  2. — The  Thread  (235  degrees).  The  candy  will  stick  or  cling  to  the 
finger  but  will  not  retain  the  shape  of  a ball  when  rolled  between  them. 
(Used  for  making  liquors,  etc.) 

No.  3. — The  Soft  Ball  or  Feather  (240  degrees). — The  candy  when  cooled 
in  water  and  rolled  between  the  fingers  will  take  the  form  of  a soft  ball. 
(Used  for  fondants,  cream  goods  and  fruit  candies.) 

No.  4. — The  Hard  Ball  (245  to  250  degrees).  AVhen  cooled  in  water  and 
rolled  between  the  fingers  the  candy  will  take  the  form  of  a rather  hard  ball 
but  is  not  hard  enough  to  crack  when  bent  or  broken.  (Used  for  some 
fondants  and  cream  goods,  such  as  cocoanut  and  combination  creams.) 

No.  5. — The  First  Crack  (250  degrees).  Will  just  crack  when  bent  or 
broken  between  the  fingers.  (Used  for  caramels,  butter  scotch,  Japanese 
cocoanut  bars,  etc.) 

No.  6. — The  Second  Crack  (225  to  260  degrees).  Will  crack  more  easily 
than  for  first  crack  and  will  chew  free  without  sticking  to  the  teeth.  (Used 
for  most  taffies  or  candies  that  are  pulled.) 

No.  7. — The  Dry  Crack  (300  to  310  degrees).  When  cooled  in  water  it 
will  break  brittle  like  glass  in  the  fingers.  If  cooked  much  longer  the  candy 
will  color  and  burn.  (Used  for  stick  candy  and  all  kinds  of  hard  clear 
candies.) 

FONDANTS. — The  basis  of  cream  candies  of  nearly  every  description 
is  a combination  of  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  water  cooked  together  and 
then  stirred  and  creamed.  By  confectioners  it  is  called  “ fondant.”  This 
fondant  is  variously  colored,  flavored  and  combined  with  chocolate,  fruits, 
nuts,  etc.,  to  make  chocolates,  bonbons  and  wafers  of  nearly  every  descrip- 


THE  ART  OF  CANDY  MAKING. 


157 


tion.  The  making  of  fondant  is  simple  if  accuracy  is  observed  in  following 
instructions  and  as  it  is  the  foundation  of  several  hundred  and  in  fact,  as 
will  be  seen  later,  of  several  thousand  varieties  of  cream  candies,  with  this 
secret  in  her  possession  and  a little  experience,  the  housewife  may  compete 
with  the  confectioner  in  making  endless  varieties  of  toothsome  sweets. 

WHITE  FONDANT  is  made  by  taking: 

Four  cups  granulated  sugar 

Two  cups  hot  water 

One  level  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

Stir  over  a moderate  fire  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  When  it  be- 
gins to  boil,  steam  and  wash  the  sides  of  the  vessel  to  remove  all  sugar, 
as  directed  above.  Then  place  over  a quick  fire  and  allow  it  to  boil  without 
stirring  until  it  will  form  a soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.  (See  No. 
3 in  Testing  Table.)  Remove  from  fire  and  set  aside  until  cool  but  not  en- 
tirely cold,  then  stir  vigorously  with  a spoon  or  wooden  paddle  until  it 
creams  and  becomes  quite  stiff.  When  too  thick  to  stir,  knead  it  thoroughly 
in  the  hands  until  light  and  creamy.  Do  not  be  afraid  of  kneading  too  much. 
Place  in  an  earthen  vessel  or  crock,  keep  covered  with  a damp  cloth  and  in 
twenty-four  hours  it  will  be  ready  for  use,  but  if  the  cloth  is  kept  damp  it 
will  keep  a number  of  weeks  and  perhaps  several  months  and  be  all  the  better. 
This  is  v/hite.  fondant  and  is  the  one  mostly  used. 

MAPLE  FONDANT  is  made  by  taking: 

Four  cups  brown  sugar 

Two  cups  maple  syrup 

Two  cups  hot  water 

One  level  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

Cook  and  treat  this  the  same  as  white  fondant  above. 

When  taken  from  the  crock,  should  the  top  of  the  fondant  be  dry  or 
hard  it  may  be  kneaded  again  until  it  is  all  of  the  same  consistency. 

To  Color  Fondant. — ^XVork  or  knead  in  a little  at  a time  any  color  de- 
sired, until  of  the  proper  shade. 

To  Flavor  Fondant. — Work  in  the  desired  flavor  in  the  same  way  to  suit 
the  taste. 

We  will  now  proceed  to  the  various  combinations  or  cream  candies  which 
may  be  made  from  fondant. 


CREAM  CANDIES. 

Cream  candies  include  chocolates,  bonbons,  wafers,  etc.,  and  of  each 
there  are  many  varieties. 

1.  Chocolates. — We  will  begin  with  those  made  from  the  white  fon- 
dant described  above.  Color  and  flavor  some  of  the  fondant  and  roll  it  into 
small  balls.  A little  starch  may  be  used  upon  the  hands  to  prevent  sticking. 
Let  these  stand  for  an  hour  or  two  then  dip  into  melted  chocolate.  Melt  the 
chocolate  by  putting  it  into  a dish  and  setting  in  a vessel  of  hot  water.  For 
dipping  the  drops  use  a fork  or  large  needle  and  lay  them  upon  paraffine  or 
waxed  paper  to  harden.  If  the  waxed  paper  is  not  at  hand  use  common 
white  paper  that  has  been  well  greased  with  butter. 

2.  Sweet  Sweets  and  Bitter  Sweets. — If  the  fondant  is  left  uncolored 
and  unflavored  two  varieties  are  obtained  by  dipping  the  drops  into  either 
sweet  or  bitter  chocolate.  If  flavored  with  vanilla  those  dipped  in  sweet 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


1T)8 


chocolate  are  called  “ Sweet  Sweets  ” and  those  dipped  in  bitter  chocolate  are 
called  “ Bitter  Sweets.” 

3.  Various  Chocolates. — The  white  fondant  above  may  be  colored  pink, 
red,  blue,  yellow,  green  or  orange  and  rolled  and  dipped  into  either  bitter  or 
sweet  chocolate  so  that  we  will  have  fourteen  varieties.  Each  one  of  these 
fourteen,  before  being  rolled  and  dipped,  may  be  flavored  with  either  vanilla, 
lemon,  pineapple,  orange,  wintergreen,  peppermint,  raspberry,  strawberry, 
etc.,  giving  112  varieties.  As  soon  as  dipped  in  chocolate  a nut  kernel  or 
piece  of  candied  fruit  may  be  placed  on  top  of  each  chocolate.  By  using 
English  walnuts,  black  walnuts,  pecans,  hickory  nuts,  almonds,  hazelnuts, 
pistachio  nuts,  filberts,  cream  nuts,  candied  cherries,  or  small  pieces  of  citron 
or  candied  pineapple,  etc.,  for  this  purpose,  the  number  of  varieties  is  multi- 
plied by  twelve,  which  makes  over  1300  kinds.  Instead  of  placing  these 
nuts  and  fruits  on  top  of  the  chocolate  drop,  the  fondant  may  be  rolled  around 
any  of  them  and  then  dipped  in  chocolate.  By  using  the  various  colors  and 
flavors  of  fondant  in  this  way  our  1300  is  doubled  to  2600  kinds. 

Then  the  maple  fondant  may  be  used  in  the  same  number  of  ways, 
which  again  doubles  the  number  of  kinds  so  that  we  have  over  5000  varieties 
of  chocolate  drops.  In  fact  the  combinations  may  be  multiplied  almost  in- 
definitely to  suit  the  taste  or  fancy  of  the  confectioner  and  his  patrons. 

4.  Bonbons. — These  are  made  the  same  as  chocolates  except  that  the 
rolled  fondant  is  dipped  in  melted  fondant  instead  of  chocolate.  Take  some 
of  the  white  fondant  in  a vessel,  set  this  vessel  into  a kettle  of  hot  water 
until  the  fondant  is  dissolved.  Dip  the  drops  made  from  either  the  white 
or  maple  fondant  into  this  melted  fondant  the  same  as  into  the  chocolate  for 
chocolate  drops.  Or  the  maple  fondant  may  be  melted  and  used  for  the 
coating  in  the  sam.e  manner.  Both  the  fondant  used  for  the  drops  and  that 
melted  for  the  coating  may  be  flavored  and  colored  to  suit.  Nuts,  fruits, 
etc.,  may  be  used  the  same  as  with  chocolates  above,  so  that  even  more  com- 
binations may  be  made  in  bonbons  than  in  chocolates  and  our  number  of 
different  kinds  is  again  more  than  doubled,  giving  a total  of  more  than  10,000 
varieties  of  cream  candies  alone,  should  one  desire  to  exercise  his  fancy  to 
that  extent. 

5.  Wafers. — To  make  wafers,  melt  some  white  fondant  as  directed 
above  in  making  bonbons,  color  and  flavor  to  suit  and  drop  upon  waxed 
paper,  making  the  wafers  about  the  size  of  a quarter  or  a little  larger.  In 
dropping  the  melted  fondant,  a large  funnel  may  be  brought  into  service, 
using  a small,  round  stick  about  a foot  long  as  a stopper.  Hold  the  funnel 
right  side  up,  place  the  stick  in  so  as  to  close  the  small  end,  fill  the  funnel 
with  the  melted  fondant,  then  open  and  close  the  small  end  of  the  funnel 
with  the  stick,  allowing  a little  of  the  fondant  to  drop  each  time  upon  the 
waxed  paper.  A little  practice  will  be  required  to  make  the  wafers  of 
uniform  size. 

6.  Cream  Dates. — Cut  the  date  open  lengthwise  and  take  out  the  seed 
carefully.  Refill  with  enough  fondant  so  that  the  date  cannot  quite  be  closed 
again.  Thus  you  allow  a part  of  the  fondant  to  show.  Then  roll  in  granu- 
lated sugar  or  dip  each  end  in  melted  fondant  colored  to  suit.  (See  fondant 
above.) 

7.  Cream  Grapes. — Clip  Malaga  grapes  from  the  stem  with  scissors 
to  prevent  leaking  of  the  juice.  Dip  in  melted  fondant  colored  to  suit  and  you 
have  something  luscious. 


THE  ART  OF  CANDY  MAKING. 


159 


8.  Cocoanut  Creams. — When  creaming  white  fondant  (fondant  for  this 
purpose  should  be  cooked  a little  longer  than  that  described  above,  or  to  a 
hard  ball  as  in  No.  4 of  the  table  for  testing)  stir  in  some  good  shredded 
cocoanut.  After  kneading,  cut  into  small  squares  or  bars  to  suit  and  dip 
in  melted  chocolate.  Cocoanut  creams  are  very  fine  eating. 

• 9.  Combination  Cream. — Pour  into  a small  cake  pan  some  melted  fon- 
dant of  any  desired  color.  (This  fondant  should  be  cooked  to  a hard  ball  as 
in  No.  4 of  testing  table  above.)  When  cool,  pour  on  top  of  this  more 
melted  fondant  of  another  color  allowing  each  layer  to  cool  before  adding 
another.  The  layers  may  be  of  any  number,  thickness  and  color  desired. 
When  all  is  cold,  carefully  take  from  the  pan  and  cut  into  slices  as  you 
would  cake.  This  makes  a very  attractive  and  a very  rich  candy. 

10.  Orangettes. — Make  the  following  fondant;  Take  3 pounds  granu- 
lated sugar,  Ys  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  and  water  enough  to  dissolve. 
Cook  to  a hard  ball  (No.  4 in  testing  table  above),  pour  upon  an  ungreased 
marble  or  large  platter.  Add  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  two  oranges  and 
the  juice  of  one  and  stir  with  spoon  or  paddle  until  creamed;  knead  with 
the  hands  until  soft  and  creamy,  roll  into  drops  and  dip  into  melted  choco- 
late. Orangettes  made  from  this  recipe  were  awarded  the  prize  in  New 
York  City. 

TAFFIES. 

In  making  candies  a confectioner  generally  has  a marble  stone  or  slab  or 
a cooling  table  made  for  the  purpose  upon  which  to  pour  the  batch  of 
candy  when  cooked.  If  these  are  not  available  a large  platter  will  answer 
for  domestic  purposes.  In  making  taffies  this  should  be  well  greased  with 
butter  to  prevent  sticking.  In  the  pulling  of  taffies  the  confectioner  uses 
a large  iron  hook,  securely  fastened  to  the  wall ; and  for  best  results  it  will 
be  found  almost  necessary  in  the  making  of  home-made  goods,  for  the  candy 
can  be  pulled  to  much  better  advantage  from  a hook  than  in  the  hands  and 
will  be  much  more  porous  and  light,  which  is  much  to  be  desired  in  taffies. 
A blacksmith  will  bend  an  iron  to  suit  but  if  it  is  not  convenient  to  have  a 
hook  made  the  candy  may  be  pulled  in  the  hands.  Glucose  is  generally  used 
in  taffies  instead  of  cream  of  tartar  to  prevent  sugaring.  Pure  glucose  is  made 
from  grain  and  is  not  injurious,  as  many  people  suppose. 

VANILLA,  ORANGE,  LEMON,  PINEAPPLE,  STRAWBERRY, 
WINTERGREEN,  CINNAMON  AND  CLOVE  TAFFIES.— These  taffies 
are  made  the  same,  except  that  they  are  differently  flavored  and  colored 
so  we  will  treat  them  together.  Take  five  pounds  granulated  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  glucose,  or  if  the  glucose  cannot  be  obtained  use  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar  in  its  place.  Add  enough  water  to  dissolve 
the  sugar.  When  it  boils,  cover  and  steam  the  vessel  two  or  three  minutes 
to  soften  any  sugar  on  the  sides  and  then  remove  all  undissolved  sugar 
with  a damp  cloth.  Cook  until,  when  tested  in  cold  water,  it  will  chew  free 
and  not  stick  to  the  teeth.  This  is  the  second  crack  as  given  in  No.  6 of  the 
table  above  for  testing.  Pour  on  greased  marble  or  platter.  If  outer  edges 
cool  quickest  turn  them  into  center  of  platter  that  all  may  cool  evenly,  but 
be  careful  not  to  handle  unnecessarily  or  it  may  go  back  to  “ sugar  ” and  need 
to  be  recooked.  As  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  to  handle  place  on  hook  and 
pull.  Any  color  or  flavor  may  be  added  while  on  hook  and  thoroughly 
pulled  in.  Vanilla,  orange,  lemon,  pineapple,  strawberry,  wintergreen,  cinna- 


160 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


mon  and  clove  are  most  commonly  used  in  taffies.  These  eight  or  ten  varie- 
ties may  be  obtained  from  the  one  cooking  if  desired.  When  the  taffy  is 
pulled  light  and  full  of  air  and  is  cool  enough  to  be  rather  stiff,  remove 
from  hook,  cut  into  convenient  lengths  and  place  in  pans. 

VARIOUS  CANDIES. 

1.  Butterine  Sticks. — Take  five  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  glucose  and  one  quart  of  sweet  cream.  Cook  until  it 
forms  a soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water  as  described  in  No.  3 of  the  table 
for  testing.  This  must  be  stirred  constantly  or  the  cream  will  burn.  When 
done  remove  from  fire  and  rub  hard  against  the  sides  of  the  kettle  with  a 
knife  or  paddle  until  it  creams,  then  before  it  sets  pour  on  greased  marble 
or  plates,  allowing  it  to  make  a layer  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Before  it 
becomes  entirely  cold  cut  into  sticks  about  four  inches  long  and  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  in  width.  The  writer  is  the  originator  of  Butterines. 
They  have  had  a great  sale  and  will  be  found  excellent. 

2.  Cream  Caramels — Vanilla  and  Chocolate. — Take  two  quarts  of 
heavy  sweet  cream,  five  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and  one-half  pound  of 
glucose.  Stir  constantly  while  cooking  to  the  first  crack  that  can  be  de- 
tected when  tested  in  cold  water.  (No.  5 in  testing  table  above.)  Remove 
from  fire  and  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla;  pour  on  greased  marble  or 
platter  to  a depth  of  half  an  inch.  When  cool  cut  into  small  squares. 

To  make  chocolate  caramels  add  from  one-fourth  to  one-half  pound  of 
grated  chocolate  shortly  before  taking  from  the  stove,  allowing  only  time  for 
the  chocolate  to  dissolve.  Cook  and  treat  as  above.  You  will  have  to 
use  great  care  to  prevent  scorching.  These  caramels  will  stand  without 
wrapping.  This  recipe  was  obtained  from  a confectioner  at  the  cost  of  five 
dollars  and  it  makes  one  of  the  finest  cream  caramels  manufactured. 

3.  Candy  Cough  Drops. — Take  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve. 
Cook  to  the  dry  crack  or  until  it  will  break  like  glass  when  tested  in  cold 
water.  (See  No.  7 in  testing  table  before  given.)  ■ After  testing  place  a little 
in  the  mouth  and  if  it  will  not  stick  to  the  teeth  when  chewed  it  is  ready 
to  take  from  the  stove  and  pour  upon  greased  marble  or  platter.  When  on 
platter  add  one-half  ounce  powdered  willow  charcoal  and  one-fourth  tablespoon- 
ful of  oil  of  anise,  fold  and  knead  thoroughly  while  as  hot  as  can  be  handled. 
Then  cut  into  small  pieces  or  drops  with  shears.  The  batch  must  be  handled 
rapidly  or  it  will  cool  and  harden  before  cut  into  convenient  pieces.  These 
are  some  of  the  best  cough  drops  made  and  will  last  a long  time. 

4.  Peanut  Bar  Cand3^ — Take  five  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  one- 
fourth  pound  of  glucose  and  water  to  dissolve.  Cook  to  a soft  ball  when 
tested  in  cold  water,  or  to  No.  3 in  testing  table  previously  given.  Now  add 
raw  shelled  peanuts  to  make  the  batch  quite  thick.  Stir  and  cook  until  the 
peanuts  are  thoroughly  done  and  smoke  rolls  from  the  kettle.  Pour  on 
greased  marble,  or  platter  and  when  cool  but  not  cold  cut  into  bars  with 
a large  knife.  The  peanuts  may  be  tested  by  dropping  a few  into  cold  water 
and  biting  in  two  with  the  teeth.  They  should  be  brown  and  well  roasted. 
Do  not  forget  to  steam  and  wash  the  undissolved  sugar  from  the  sides  of 
the  vessel  as  elsewhere  directed.  Great  care  must  be  exercised  for  peanut 
candy  very  easily  sugars  and  cannot  be  recooked  like  most  candies. 

5.  Cocoanut  Bar  Candy. — Take  five  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar^  one- 


THE  ART  UF  CANDY  MAKING. 


161 


half  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve.  Cook  to  soft 
■ball,  or  No.  3 in  testing  table  previously  given.  Now  add  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  shredded  cocoanut,  stir  and  cook  to  first  crack,  or  No.  5.  Pour 
on  greased  marble  or  platter  making  a layer  half  an  inch  thick.  As  soon  as 
cool  enough  cut  into  bars. 

PEOPLE’S  RECIPES  FOR  HOME-MADE  CANDIES. 

1.  Butter  Scotch. — Take  three-fourths  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water 
and  one-half  cup  of  butter.  Boil  until  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water,  turn 
into  well  buttered  tins  and  cut  in  squares. 

2.  Cream  Candy. — Take  one  cup  of  sweet  cream,  two  cups  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  as  much  cream  of  tartar  as  you  can  hold  on  the  point  of 
a knife.  Do  not  stir  while  cooking.  Cook  thirty  minutes,  take  off  and  beat, 
add  nuts  and  flavoring,  work  into  a roll  and  slice. 

3.  Peanut  Brittle. — Put  one  cup  of  sugar  into  a frying  pan  and  shake 
briskly  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is  melted.  Then  add  a cup  of  chopped 
peanuts.  Take  care  not  to  burn  the  peanuts. 

4.  Cracker  Jack. — Take  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Boil  until  it  cracks  when  tested  in  cold  water. 
Then  take  from  the  fire,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  beat  briskly  and 
pour  over  pop-corn  and  chopped  peanuts. 

5.  Prauline. — Take  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  milk  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar;  boil  until  it  threads, 
flavor  wkh  vanilla,  add  two  quarts  of  picked  nuts  and  then  beat  until  creamy 
and  pour  into  pans, 

6.  Molasses  Taffy. — Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar;  boil  until  brittle  and  pull. 

7.  Sea  Foam. — Cook  two  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  with  enough  water 
to  cover  it,  until  it  will  form  a soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water;  then 
■add  two  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  constantly  until  it  thickens ; 
drop  with  a spoon  upon  greased  paper  and  put  half  of  an  English  walnut 
on  each  piece  and  let  stand  until  it  hardens. 

8.  Chewing  Taffy. — For  two  cups  of  sugar  take  one  cup  of  water,  when 
it  is  boiling  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  a piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a walnut,  let  cook  until  it  will  harden  in  water,  add  the  flavoring  and 
remove  from  the  stove.  Pull  when  it  is  cool  enough. 

9.  Marshmallows. — One  box  of  Knox’s  No.  1 gelatine,  sixteen  table- 
spoonfuls of  cold  water,  four  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  twelve  tablespoon- 
fuls of  hot  water,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  a pinch  of  cream  of 
tartar;  put  gelatine  and  water  into  a large  crock  and  let  stand  while  the 
sugar  is  cooking  until  it  threads  well ; then  mix  together  and  beat  constantly 
for  half  an  hour  with  a paddle.  Line  a pan  with  greased  paper  and  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  pour  in  marshmallow  and  let  stand  one  hour  and 
then  cut  and  dip  in  powdered  sugar. 

10.  January  Thaws. — Three-fourths  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  two  cups 
dark  brown  sugar,  a lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  sugar  and  cream  into  kettle,  stir  until  sugar  is 
dissolved  and  boil  until  a soft  ball  can  be  formed  of  a little  that  has  been 
dropped  into  cold  water  and  then  add  butter  and  vanilla  and  one-half  cup 

2— n 


162 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


of  nuts  (walnuts  preferred).  Bea-t  with  a spoon  until  candy  cracks  as  you 
beat  it.  Turn  into  a buttered  dish  and  cut  into  squares. 

11.  Macaroons. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  cocoanut,  whites  of  five  eggs 
and  one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a slow  oven  on 
unbnttered  paper.  When  done  turn  onto  buttered  paper. 

12.  Hickory  Nut  Kisses. — Three  cups  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  whites 
of  eight  eggs  and  one  cup  of  hickory  nut  meats.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat 
eggs  until  very  stiff  and  dry.  Beat  sugar  in  lightly,  adding  a little  at  a time. 
Bake  on  buttered  tins  in  rather  slow  oven. 

13.  Kisses. — Five  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  three 
eggs  and  essence  of  lemon  to  flavor.  Mix  well  and  drop  with  a teaspoon  on 
a buttered  paper  placed  in  a pan.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them  and  bake 
one-half  hour  in  a slow  oven.  Whip  eggs  a long  time  after  they  are  stiff  to 
dry  them. 

14.  Maple  Sugar  Candy. — One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of 
maple  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  cream,  one-half  cup  of  water  and  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a hickory  nut.  Boil  all  together  until  the  mixture 
will  hold  together  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and  then  pour  into  a buttered  dish. 

15.  Maple  Fudge. — One  quart  of  maple  syrup  and  one  cup  of  sweet 
cream ; cook  until  it  will  form  a hard  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water. 
AVhen  cold,  stir  until  it  hardens. 

16.  Butter  Scotch. — Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  of 
vinegar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  sugar  and  vinegar  together 
until  almost  done  and  then  add  butter.  Do  not  stir.  Cook  until  crisp  when 
cooled  in  water  and  pour  into  buttered  pan  to  cool. 

17.  Sugar  Drops. — Moisten  two  cups  of  brown  sugar  with  a little  water 
and  boil  until  it  will  form  a ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Have  ready 
the  white  of  an  egg,  beaten  stiff  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Pour  hot  syrup 
into  egg  and  beat  hard.  Drop  upon  plates  with  a fork. 


PIES. 

No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes, 

As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies. 

— O.  W.  Holmes, 

**  We’ve  baked  the  pies  you  all  like  best 
And  are  willing  now  to  stand  the  test; 

The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating, 

And  the  pies  we  serve  there  is  no  beating” 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAKING  PIES. 

In  the  baking  of  pies  it  takes  much  practice  to  become  perfect.  One  may 
have  the  best  recipes  in  the  world  and  yet  fail  but  the  young  housewife 
should  not  let  this  discourage  her. 

The  secret  of  pie-making  is  to  use  just  as  little  water  as  possible  and 
get  the  dough  into  shape,  having  everything  very  cold.  Butter  or  lard  for 
pastry  should  be  fresh,  sweet  and  solid. 

Use  a cupful  of  lard  and  a teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a quart  of  flour.  This 


bCi  tn 
V 


be  ° 


be  w 

I ^ 

° H 

O 


8 c te 


<u 


^ Ji  in 

I-- 8 

•—  cJ  G 

o ” o aj  <u 

u:^  H J 


— 'M  Tti 


^ ^ C a; 

G G ^ 

’- '^  bD  in  c3 

« S.H  ^ (/;  ■5 

"5  ^ rt 

^ lii  O O — OJ 

far^lh^OO 


lO  CO  t-  X c:  o 


<L)  (U 

e-ro 
o.  o 
o ^ 


° 

. o 

oj  M h 


P^CU 


*^’0 

(/)  o 

CO  O 
re  O 


H C'i  CO 


o 


PIES. 


163 


quantity  will  make  four  crusts,  either  two  pies  with  covers  or  four  without. 
The  lard  should  be.  worked  thoroughly  into  the  flour  with  the  fingers  before 
any  water  is  added.  Use  only  a little  water  and  press  the  dough  together 
hard,  then  put  upon  a board  that  has  been  well  floured.  Roll  the  dough  one 
way  only.  In  warm  weather  if  you  are  not  ready  to  bake  the  paste  at  once 
after  making  up,  it  should  be  kept  on  ice  till  wanted.  It  improves  pastry 
to  lie  on  ice  two  or  three  hours  and  it  may  be  kept  several  days  if  necessary. 

The  under  crust  should  be  a little  thicker  than  the  top.  If  a pie  is  made 
without  an  upper  crust  it  is  well  to  have  a heavy  edge.  If  tin  pie  pans  are 
used  the  bottom  crust  will  be  better  baked  than  if  earthen  pans  are  used. 
Before  putting  on  the  upper  crust,  wet  the  rim  of  the  lower  with  water,  or 
a thick  paste  of  flour  and  water,  or  flour  and  egg;  then  press  the  two  crusts 
well  together  and  then  loosen  all  from  the  pans.  This  will  prevent  the  burst- 
ing of  the  pie. 

If  it  is  a fruit  pie  a little  flour  should  be  dusted  over  the  bottom ; or, 
the  juice  will  be  prevented  from  soaking  through  by  rubbing  some  well- 
beaten  egg  over  the  lower  crust  with  a piece  of  cloth.  To  prevent  the  juice 
from  running  over,  a level  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  should  be  evenly  sprink- 
led over  the  fruit  before  the  upper  crust  is  put  on. 

Always  make  air  holes  in  the  top  crust  or  the  pie  will  burst.  It  is  best 
not  to  wash  the  rolling  pin  but  to  scrape  the  dough  off  well  and  rub  with 
a dry  towel.  Thus  it  will  always  be  dry  and  will  never  stick  if  kept  well 
floured. 

Always  beat  eggs  separately. 

Some  always  grease  the  pie  tins  while  others  sprinkle  them  with  flour. 
It  is  safest  to  grease  them  if  the  pie  is  to  be  removed  from  the  pan  before 
putting  on  the  table. 

To  keep  pastry  from  scorching  on  the  bottom  sprinkle  salt  in  the  oven 
under  the  pie  tin. 

A nice,  flakey,  pie  dough  may  be  made  by  lessening  the  amount  of  short- 
ening and  adding  a level  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  to  a quart  of  flour. 

The  time  for  cooking  pies  varies  with  the  heat  of  the  oven  and  the  kind 
of  pie.  Where  a rich  lemon  pie  might  bake  in  twenty  minutes  it  probably 
would  require  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes  to  bake  a green  apple  pie. 

Bake  fruit  pies  in  a moderate  oven  and  if  possible  have  a better  heat  at 
the  bottom  than  at  the  top  or  the  lower  crust  will  be  “ raw.’^  When  done, 
the  crust  will  separate  from  the  pan  and  may  be  easily  removed.  It  should 
be  taken  from  the  tin  at  once  and  slipped  onto  a porcelain  plate  if  you  would 
have  the  bottom  crisp  instead  of  soggy ; or,  stand  on  a wire  cake  sieve  to  allow 
the  air  to  circulate  all  around  it. 

RECIPES  FOR  PIES. 

1.  Delicious  Apple  Pie. — Pare  and  core  6 or  8 tart  apples;  boil  1 cup 
of  sugar  in  V2  cup  of  water  for  5 minutes;  add  a heaping  teaspoonful  of 
butter  and  1 of  almond  extract ; stir  and  lay  in  the  apples ; cover ; bake  until 
tender  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Line  a deep  pie  tin  with  puff  paste ; prick  with 
a fork  to  keep  from  blistering  and  bake;  fill  with  the  fruit;  spread  over  the 
top  a meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  2 eggs  and  2 tablespoonfuls  of  shredded 
blanched  almonds;  dust  with  a tablespoonful  of  sugar;  brown  slightly  in  a 
cool  oven  and  serve  very  cold. 

2.  Buttermilk  Pie. — Make  and  bake  your  crust.  Filling:  two  cups  of 


164 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


buttermilk,  yolks  of  3 eggs,  1 cup  sugar,  a little  salt,  1 tablespoonful  of  butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence.  Cook  and  cool 
as  for  lemon  pie. 

3.  Custard  Pie. — One  level  teaspoonful  of  flour  sifted  in  1 cup  of  sugar; 
add  2 eggs ; beat  together  and  add  milk  to  fill  pie  tins  brim  full ; grate  a 
little  nutmeg  on  top  and  add  a few  tiny  lumps  of  butter;  bake  slowly  until 
by  testing  the  center  of  the  pie  with  a knife  it  is  found  to  have  thickened. 

4.  Cornstarch  Pie. — Take  1 quart  of  milk  and  heat  .to  boiling;  add 
% cup  of  sugar,  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2 eggs,  and  2 tablespoonfuls  of 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  milk ; let  boil  a few  minutes ; remove  from  fire ; 
have  crust  baked;  then  pour  in  custard.  Beat  whites  of  eggs;  add  a little 
sugar;  spread  on  tops  of  pies  and  return  to  oven  to  brown.  This  is  enough 
for  2 pies. 

5.  Chocolate  Pie. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  3 eggs 
(save  the  whites  for  the  tops),  % cup  of  granulated  sugar,  3 strips  of  choco- 
late, 3 pints  of  milk ; put  the  crumbs  in  the  milk ; when  hot  put  in  the  beaten 
eggs  and  chocolate  and  sugar  (thinned  with  a little  milk),  and  let  boil  until 
thick;  bake  crusts  and  fill.  Enough  for  2 large  pies. 

6.  Chocolate  Cream  Pie. — Bake  a shell  of  pie  crust;  have  ready  a fill- 
ing made  as  follows:  One-half  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  2 eggs,  1 square 
of  Baker’s  chocolate,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1 scant  pint  of  milk,  butter 
the  size  of  a walnut ; cook  them  all  together  and  fill  crust ; beat  whites  of 
eggs  and,  after  spreading  on  top  of  pie,  sprinkle  on  sugar  and  set  in  oven 
to  brown  slightly. 

7.  Mock  Cherry  Pie. — One-half  cup  chopped  raisins,  1 teacup  cran- 
berries, 1 teacup  sugar,  % cup  boiling  water,  1 tablespoonful  of  flour;  cook 
for  10  minutes ; flavor  with  vanilla ; put  flour  in  after  it  is  cooked. 

8.  Cocoanut  Pie. — Whip  2 eggs  into  % cup  of  sugar  and  mix  with  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  1 cup  grated  cocoanut,  and  pour  over  it  1 pint  of 
milk  brought  to  the  boiling  point;  line  a pie  plate  with  pastry  crust,  leaving 
high  rim ; bake  in  moderate  oven. 

9.  Cream  Pie. — One  cup  of  water,  2 eggs,  1 tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch, % cup  sugar,  1 heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a pinch  of  salt,  flavor 
with  vanilla;  when  the  water  is  boiling  stir  in  the  cornstarch,  the  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  with  sugar;  stir  in  the  butter  and  let  cool;  add  flavor.  Bake 
crust  before  filling;  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  with  2 tablespoonfuls  sugar  for 
top  and  put  in  oven  and  brown. 

10.  Elderberry  Pie. — Five  tablespoonfuls  elderberries,  3 tablespoonfuls 
sugar.  5 tablespoonfuls  molasses,  2 tablespoonfuls  cider  vinegar,  1 table- 
spoonful flour  sprinkled  on  top.  Bake  in  2 crusts. 

11.  Lemon  Pie. — The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 lemon,  1 tablespoonful 
of  butter,  1 cup  of  sugar  beaten  to  a cream,  2 tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk, 

4 eggs ; mix  all  together  and  pour  into  a crust-lined  plate  and  bake ; when 
done,  beat  the  whites  of  2 eggs  with  2 tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar; 
spread  it  over  pie  and  brown  in  oven. 

12.  Molasses  Pie. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  maple  syrup,  1 cup  of 
sugar,  yolks  of  4 eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1 nutmeg ; bake  in  1 crust ; 
remove  from  oven  and  cover  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  with  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  place  in  oven  and  brown.  This  will  make  2 pies. 

13.  Mince  Meat. — Cook  5 or  6 pounds  of  beef  until  tender  (let  boil 
until  nearly  dry),  chop  very  fine;  at  the  same  time  mince  3 pounds  beef  suet, 


PIES. 


165 


4 pounds  currants,  4 pounds  raisins,  1 pound  citron.  Chop  fine  4 quarts  good, 
tart,  cooking  apples;  put  all  in  a large  pan  together;  add  2 ounces  of  cinna- 
mon, 1 ounce  ginger,  1 ounce  cloves,  4 nutmegs,  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  2 lemons,  1 tablespoonful  salt,  1 teaspoonful  pepper,  and  2 pounds  sugar; 
put  in  a kettle  1 quart  boiled  cider  or  1 quart  grape  juice,  1 quart  of  mo- 
lasses, a lump  of  butter;  let  it  come  to  boiling  point  and  pour  over  contents 
in  pan;  mix  thoroughly  and  pack  in  jars. 

14.  Mock  Mince  Pie. — Two-thirds  cup  of  vinegar,  1 cup  of  molasses,  % 
cup  of  water,  1 cup  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1 cup'  of  chopped  raisins, 

1 teaspoonful  of  cloves,  1 teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
nutmeg  ; cook  a few  minutes,  stirring  well.  This  is  enough  for  3 pies. 

15.  Pumpkin  Pie. — One  cup  of  sifted  pumpkin,  1 tablespoonful  flour, 
a pinch  of  salt,  1 teaspoonful  ginger,  1 teaspoonful  cinnamon,  % cup  of 
sugar,  1 beaten  egg ; mix  well  together  and  pour  over  2 cups  rich  milk ; fill 
deep  pie  tin  and  set  in  oven  at  once.  It  is  done  when  it  rises  well  in  the  middle. 
The  pumpkin  should  be  washed  and  cut  in  cubes  and  cooked  without  paring; 
when  tender  sift  and  return  to  back  part  of  stove  and  cook  until  dry  and 
sweet.  This  makes  one  pie. 

16.  Rhubarb  Rie. — Pour  boiling  water  over  2 teacups  of  chopped  rhu- 
barb ; let  it  stand  5 minutes  and  then  drain ; mix  with  the  rhubarb  1 teacup 
of  sugar,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  a piece  of  butter  and  a tablespoonful  of  flour, 
moistening  the  whole  with  3 tablespoonfuls  of  water;  bake  with  1 crust; 
make  meringue  of  the  white  of  the  egg  with  3 tablespoonfuls  of  suga^; 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  pie  and  brown. 

17.  Squash  Pie. — One  large  cup  of  steamed  and  strained  squash,  % cup 
of  sugar,  Y2  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  teaspoonful  of  salt,  % teaspoonful  of 
lemon  extract,  teaspoonful  ginger,  1 cup  of  milk,  2 eggs ; bake  in  one 
crust. 

18.  Transparent  Pie. — One  cup  of  butter,  1 cup  of  brown  sugar,  yolks 
of  3 eggs,  all  well  beaten  together ; bake  with  1 crust. 

19.  Vinegar  Pie. — One  cup  of  water,  1 cup  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  Y2  cup  of  flour,  3 tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  pinch  of  salt,  a little 
nutmeg;  stir  all  together  and  boil;  when  it  becomes  thick,  pour  it  into  a 
crust  which  should  be  previously  baked. 

20.  Pie  Crust. — One  cup  lard,  3 cups  flour,  a little  salt;  mix  with  ice 
cold  water,  into  a soft  dough ; handle  as  little  as  possible. 

21.  Lemon  Cream  Pie. — One  cup  sugar,  1 raw  potato  grated,  1 cup  of 
water,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1 lemon;  bake  in  pastry  top  and  bottom; 
this  Vv^ill  make  1 pie. 

22.  Shoo-Fly. — Make  regular  pie  crust  and  fill  as  follows : 2 cups 
boiling  water,  1 cup  syrup  and  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  soda  and  crumbs;  pour 
the  boiling  water  over  the  syrup  and  add  the  soda.  Directions  for  making 
the  crumbs : One  cup  of  lard,  3 cups  of  flour,  IY2  cups  of  sugar ; same  to  be 
used  in  place  of  the  top  crust. 

23.  Pie  Dough. — Four  cups  of  flour,  a little  salt,  enough  lard  to  make 
flour  stick  together  when  pressed.  Work  for  about  20  minutes.  Then  add 
just  enough  water  to  make  it  hold  together. 

24.  Pie  Plant  Pie. — Cut  up  enough  pie  plant  to  fill  6 cups  and  chop  fine ; 
add  3 cups  of  sugar,  3 heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  3 eggs.  Bake  with 

2 crusts.  This  is  enough  for  4 pies. 

25.  Raisin  Pie.— -One  cup  finely  chopped  raisins,  1 cup  water,  1 cup 


166 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


brown  sugar,  1 tablespoonful  flour.  Boil  together  until  it  thickens.  Bake 
between  2 good  light  crusts. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS. 

To  make  a perfect  salad,  there  should  be  a spendthrift  for  oil,  a miser  for  vinegar, 
a wise  man  for  salt,  and  a madcap  to  stir  the  ingredients  up  and  mix  well  together. 

— Spanish  Proverb. 

1.  Banana  Salad. — Slice  bananas;  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves;  add  a few 
nuts  and  the  dressing.  Oranges  sliced  very  thin,  in  the  proportion  of  1 
©range  to  3 or  4 bananas,  may  be  added  if  preferred.  Salad  dressing:  One 
teaspoonful  salt,  1 teaspoonful  Colman’s  mustard,  1 tablespoonful  butter,  2 
teaspoonfuls  sugar,  3 tablespoonfuls  cream,  1 teaspoonful  cornstarch,  yolks 
of  4 eggs,  1 scant  teacup  vinegar.  Mix  and  stir  in  double  boiler  over  fire 
until  it  begins  to  thicken;  strain.  When  used,  thin  (with  % cup  cream, 
whipped.  If  cream  is  omitted  this  may  be  kept  in  a cool  place  for  some  time. 

2.  String  Bean  Salad. — One  cup  cold  boiled  string  beans,  cut  in  small 
pieces;  3 hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings;  3 beets  boiled  and  sliced;  1 head  of 
lettuce,  chopped.  Put  lettuce  leaves  on  plate ; then  salad ; cover  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

3.  Cherry  Salad. — Take  some  white  California  cherries  and  remove 
the  pits,  replace  with  a blanched  filbert  or  hazelnut.  Serve  on  a lettuce  leaf 
with  a spoonful  of  salad  dressing,  to  which  a plentiful  supply  of  whipped 
cream  has  been  added. 

4.  Cheese  Salad. — For  this  salad  use  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  1%  cups 
of  cheese,  grated  fine ; 1 teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1/10  of  a teaspoonful  of 
cayenne,  % teaspoonful  of  salt,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil  or  melted  butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls  vinegar  and  a cup  of  cold  chicken  chopped  rather  coarse. 
Rub  yolks  of  eggs  until  a smooth  paste  is  formed;  gradually  add  the  oil, 
stirring  all  the  while  with  a silver  fork ; then  add  all  the  seasoning.  Mix 
the  cheese  and  chicken  lightly  with  this  dressing  and  heap  the  mixture  on  a 
pretty  dish;  garnish  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut  in  circles,  and  a few 
white  celery  leaves  or  sprig  of  parsley.  Serve  with  water  crackers,  cold 
or  toasted. 

5.  Com  Salad. — Four  red  peppers,  12  good  ears  of  corn,  2 quarts  of 
vinegar,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  % pound  of  ground  mustard,  1 cup  sugar. 
Chop  1 head  of  cabbage  and  let  it  drain ; chop  peppers  and  cut  off  corn  and 
mix.  Boil  all  together  for  20  minutes. 

6.  Fruit  Salad. — One  dozen  oranges,  1 dozen  bananas,  % dozen  good 
apples,  1 pound  Sultana  raisins,  1 bunch  celery,  1 pound  pecans  and  English 
walnuts  mixed,  a few  chopped  pickles.  Pour  over  fresh  mayonnaise  dressing. 

7’.  Mixed  Summer  Salad. — Two  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  mustard  leaves, 

3 heads  of  lettuce,  a handful  of  watercress,  5 tender  radishes,  1 cucumber, 
3 hard-boiled  eggs,  2 teaspoonfuls  white  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  each  of  salt, 
pepper  and  mustard;  1 teacupful  vinegar,  % teacupful  oil.  Mix  all  together 
and  serve  with  a lump  of  ice  in  the  middle. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS. 


167 


8.  Sweetbread  Salad. — Two  pairs  of  sweetbreads,  dropped  in  boiling 
salt  water  and  cooked  from  20  to  30  minutes,  then  plunged  in  very  cold  water 
for  a few  minutes.  Take  equal  quantity  of  celery  and  1 tablespoonful  of 
chopped  almonds.  In  cucumber  season,  use  them  in  place  of  the  celery; 
it  is  fine. 

9.  Sardine  Salad. — Lay  a sardine  on  a lettuce  leaf,  and  squeeze  3 drops 
of  lemon  juice  on  each  fish.  Pour  over  it  a spoonful  of  thick  dressing.  Gar- 
nish with  cold  beets  cut  in  star  shape. 

10.  Cream  Dressing. — Mix  together  thoroughly,  I/2  tablespoonful  mus- 
tard and  salt,  2 tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1 tablespoonful  flour,  2 eggs,  2% 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  % cup  of  cream.  Then  add  slowly  % cup  vine- 
gar. Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. 

11.  Cabbage  Salad  Dressing. — Six  tablespoonfuls  cream,  2 raw  eggs 
well  beaten,  V2  teaspoonful  salt,  6 teaspoonfuls  vinegar,  a small  piece  of  butter ; 
put  on  fire  and  cook,  stirring  until  quite  thick ; have  a half  head  of  cabbage 
chopped  fine ; sprinkle  with  salt ; add  the  dressing  when  cold ; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls cream.  Pour  this  mixture  over  cabbage. 

12.  Dressing  for  Yellow  Pickles. — One  gallon  vinegar,  % pound  brown 
sugar,  1 ounce  celery  seed,  1 ounce  tumeric,  1 cup  flour.  Put  all  the  vinegar 
except  1 quart  on  the  stove ; add  sugar  and  celery  seed ; mix  mustard  tu- 
meric and  flour  with  the  quart  of  vinegar;  let  boil  until  it  thickens;  pour  over 
the  pickles  while  hot  and  seal.  Scald  the  pickles  in  weak  vinegar  and  drain. 
Use  anything  that  makes  good  pickles — small  onions,  cucumbers,  cauliflower, 
sweet  peppers  or  tomatoes,  cut  in  small  pieces.  This  is  very  nice  for  chopped 
pickles. 

13.  Salad  Dressing. — Five  whole  eggs  or  yolks  of  12 ; beat  well.  One 
and  one-half  cups  of  vinegar,  1 cup  melted  butter,  cup  sugar,  2 tablespoon- 
fuls mustard.  Pour  in  sauce  pan  and  stir  until  it  boils ; take  off  fire  and 
add  2 teaspoonfuls  celery  seed  and  2 teaspoonfuls  salt.  This  makes  a large 
quantity  and  should  be  thinned  with  cream  when  used. 

14.  Stuffed  Tomato  Salad. — Peel  6 smooth  tomatoes,  remove  thin  slice 
from  the  top  of  each  and  take  out  seeds  and  pulp.  Sprinkle  inside  with  salt, 
invert  and  let  stand  for  awhile  in  a cool  place.  Drain  seeds  and  pulp,  mix 
with  % of  a cucumber  and  several  stalks  of  celery  chopped.  Fill  tomatoes 
and  put  a spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing  on  each  one  and  place  on  a lettuce 
leaf. 

15.  Slaw. — To  a cabbage  head  put  to  boil  % cup  of  milk,  cup  of  vine- 
gar and  v/ater  mixed,  and  beat  up  2 eggs.  Boil  milk,  vinegar  and  water 
together;  add  a small  lump  of  butter  and  put  the  eggs  in  with  the  contents. 
Add  a little  flour  to  thicken  and  also  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Salt  the  cab- 
bage and  add  the  other  when  cool.  This  should  be  boiled. 

16.  Cold  Slaw. — One  small,  solid  head  of  cabbage  chopped  fine.  Take 
1 egg,  cup  of  vinegar,  % teaspoonful  salt,  V2  teaspoonful  mustard.  Mix 
egg,  salt  and  mustard  with  vinegar.  Cook  and  pour  over  cabbage. 

17.  Beet  Salad. — One  can  beets,  1 small  bunch  of  celery,  1 pound  Eng- 
lish walnuts.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

18.  Apple  Salad. — Six  apples,  1 bunch  of  celery.  Chop  all  together, 
then  add  1 cup  English  walnuts  chopped  fine ; pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over 
and  serve. 


168 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


19.  Endive  Salad. — Clean  and  wash  the  endive,  cut  up  in  pieces  %-inch 
long;  to  2 cups  of  endive  have  about  4 cups  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in 
small  pieces ; take  2 slices  of  bacon  cut  in  small  pieces,  fry  brown  and  crisp ; 
to  this  add  a scant  cup  of  vinegar  diluted  with  water;  pour  this  while  warm 
over  the  salad ; mix  well ; pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a little  sugar  if  preferred. 

20.  Green  Bean  Salad. — Two  quarts  of  green  beans,  break  into  small 
pieces  and  cook  two  hours  in  boiling  salt  water;  drain  and  cool;  add  1 
large  cucumber  and  1 onion  chopped  fine ; cover  with  salad  dressing. 

21.  Heavenly  Hash  (or  Fruit  Salad). — Slice  three  oranges,  3 bananas; 
flake  half  of  pineapple,  place  in  layers,  sprinkle  sugar  over  each  layer,  squeeze 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  over  all,  put  on  ice  3 hours.  Grated  cocoanut  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

22.  Tomato  Jelly. — Soak  % box  of  gelatine  in  % cup  of  cold  water;  cook 
a can  of  tomatoes,  a stalk  of  celery,  half  an  onion,  a bay  leaf,  2 cloves,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a dash  of  red  pepper  ten  minutes.  Add  2 tablespoon- 
fuls of  vinegar  and  gelatine.  Stir  until  dissolved ; strain  and  turn  into  1 
large  mold  or  several  small  ones;  when  jellied  cut  in  squares,  lay  each  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaf,  put  on  a spoonful  of  salad  dressing  and  serve. 

23.  Nut  Salad.— Four  hard-boiled  eggs,  1 pound  English  walnuts,  1 
bunch  of  celery  chopped  very  fine;  mix  with  any  desired  salad  dressing. 

24.  Meat  Salad. — Two  pounds  of  meat,  1 pound  of  pork ; boil  them  to- 
gether, chop  fine ; 1 onion,  1 bunch  of  celery,  2 eggs,  lump  of  butter,  1 cup 
of  vinegar;  put  on  to  boil  until  it  gets  thick;  when  cold  mix  with  meat. 

25.  Chicken  Salad. — One  large  chicken  boiled  whole ; when  thoroughly 
cold  cut  into  dice ; cut  into  dice  also  the  white  part  of  heads  of  celery ; mix 
chicken  and  celery  together,  then  stir  well  into  them  a mixture  in  fhe  pro- 
portion of  3 tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  to  1 of  oil,  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  set  in  a cold  place  for  an  hour  or  so;  just  before  serving  mix  with 
a mayonnaise  sauce. 

26.  Cold  Slaw  Dressing. — Two  eggs  well  beaten,  % teaspoonful  melted 
butter,  1/2  teaspoonful  salt;  beat  well  together  and  add  6 tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar  and  3 tablespoonfuls  of  cream ; put  in  a pan  of  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  thick. 

27.  Mustard  Dressing. — One  tablespoonful  of  Coleman’s  mustard,  1 egg, 
1 tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  1 tablespoonful  sugar,  1 tablespoonful  salt, 
a little  pepper,  1 teaspoonful  celery  seed,  1 pint  vinegar;  mix  all  together, 
cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Will  keep  a long  time  if  the  air  is  ex- 
cluded. 

28.  Cheese  Salad  Dressing. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  soft,  grated  cheese 
pounded  until  smooth ; season  with  a little  cayenne  and  a teaspoonful  of 
salt ; add  1 tablespoonful  vinegar  and  rub  till  smooth ; then  add  enough  oil 
to  moisten. 

29.  Mayonnaise. — Mix  1 teaspoonful  of  salt  with  1 teaspoonful  of  made 
mustard,  i/4  teaspoonful  pepper  and  V2  teaspoonful  celery  seed ; add  to  1 cup 
vinegar,  % cup  sugar,  3 beaten  eggs ; stir  constantly  until  it  boils. 

30.  German  Potato  Salad. — Boil  6 large  potatoes,  peel  and  slice  while 
hot,  and  pour  over  the  following:  Cut  pounds  of  lean  bacon  in  small 
dice  and  fry  brown.  Season  potatoes  with  salt,  pepper  and  finely  sliced  onion  ; 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS. 


.169 


mix  thoroughly  with  the  bacon  fat  and  dice,  and  then  add  % cup  vinegar; 
garnish  with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs. 

31.  Macaroni  and  Tomatoes. — One  cup  grated  cheese,  1 quart  tomatoes, 
1 cup  macaroni  cooked  in  salt  water  until  done ; then  add  tomatoes  and 
bheese  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  butter. 

—^^32.  Waldo  Salad. — One  pint  each  of  celery  and  apples  cut  in  dice,  % 
pint  of  English  walnuts,  ^ pound  of  white  grapes,  mix  together  and  when 
ready  to  serve  cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

33.  Salmon  Dressing.. — One  can  of  salmon,  drained;  juice  of  2 lemons 
(or  vinegar),  1 teaspoonful  of  mustard,  yolks  of  2 hard-boiled  eggs;  mix 
yolks  of  eggs  with  the  mustard,  add  to  salmon  and  then  add  lemon  juice 
or  vinegar. 

34.  Baked  Com. — Three  eggs,  % pint  of  milk,  1 tablespoonful  melted 
butter,  1 tablespoonful  sugar,  1 can  corn ; beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  sepa- 
rately; put  corn  and  yolks  together;  stir  hard  and  add  the  butter,  then  the 
milk  gradually,  beating  all  the  while;  next  the  sugar  and  a little  salt;  lastly, 
whites  of  eggs.  Bake  slowly  at  first,  covering  the  dish;  remove  and  brown 
nicely. 

35.  Sour  Potatoes. — Slice  potatoes  as  for  frying;  cook  in  as  little  water 
as  possible ; when  soft  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  1 egg,  add  about 
% cup  of  vinegar,  stir  into  potatoes,  let  boil  a few  minutes ; more  vinegar 
may  be  added  if  desired. 

36.  Potato  Salad. — Boil  6 good  sized  potatoes  and  cut  into  pieces  the 
size  of  a chestnut;  add  2 tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  a small  onion 
chopped  fine  and  season  with  % teaspoonful  each  of  celery  seed,  salt  and 
mustard,  then  add  the  following  dressing:  Two  eggs,  2 tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
Yo  teacup  vinegar,  % teacup  water;  boil  till  thick. 

37.  Waldorf  Salad  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Cut  in  small  pieces  4 
fair-sized  apples  and  about  3 stalks  of  celery  and  pour  over  them  the  juice 
of  1 lemon ; then  add  the  mayonnaise,  mixing  it  in  well.  If  you  wish,  add 
some  English  walnuts  chopped  into  small  pieces. 

Mayonnaise. — Three-fourths  tablespoonful  vinegar,  yolk  of  one  egg,  % 
teaspoonful  salt,  i/4  teaspoonful  mustard,  teaspoonful  sugar,  about  % of  a 
small  bottle  of  olive  oil ; stir  everything  together  but  the  olive  oil  and  then 
dmp  that  in  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time. 

^ 38.  Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Beat  together  the  yolks  of  2 eggs  and  all  the 
sugar  they  will  take ; add  teaspoonful  each  of  pepper,  salt,  celery  seed  and 
ground  mustard ; add  good  I/2  cup  of  vinegar  and  cook,  stirring  constantly ; 
add  a lump  of  butter  about  half  the  size  of  an  egg.  The  longer  you  stir  it 
he  better  it  will  be. 

'"~^39.  Salad  Dressing. — One  beaten  egg,  3 tablespoonfuls  sugar,  % tea- 
spoonful salt,  1 cup  vinegar,  I/2  teaspoonful  mustard,  pepper  to  taste.  Boil 
this  and  stir  into  creamed  milk  and  butter.  Pour  over  potatoes  cold. 

40.  Cream  Dressing. — One  teaspoonful  mustard,  1 teaspoonful  salt,  2 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  1%  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  a little  pepper,  1 tea- 
spoonful melted  butter,  yolk  of  1 egg,  % cup  hot  vinegar,  % cup  heavy  cream ; 
mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  butter  and  yolk,  slightly  beaten ; add  vinegar 
slowly.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  until  thickened.  Add  this  to  the 
cream  beaten  until  stiflF. 


170 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 

“ The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating.” 


PUDDINGS. 

Each  ingredient  used  in  making  a pudding  should  be  of  the  best  quality. 
The  milk  should  be  strictly  fresh  and  the  suet  perfectly  sweet.  Dried  cur- 
rants should  be  washed  carefully  and  dried  in  a napkin.  The  stems  and  dirt 
should  be  removed  by  rubbing  in  a coarse  towel  after  which  the  currants 
should  be  seeded.  Spices  must  be  finely  pounded  and  only  the  outside  rind 
of  oranges  and  lemons  should  be  lightly  grated  off. 

For  puddings,  eggs  should  always  be  beaten  separately,  the  yolks  strained 
and  the  whites  added  last.  Boiled  milk  should  be  allowed  to  cool  before  the 
eggs  are  added  and  if  fruit  is  used  it  should  be  added  last.  Puddings  are 
either  boiled,  baked  or  steamed.  Add  a pinch  of  salt  to  all  puddings  and  bake 
them  as  soon  as  mixed.  Batter  and  cornstarch  puddings  require  a rather  quick 
oven  while  bread,  rice,  custard  and  fruit  puddings  should  have  a moderate 
heat. 

Boiled  puddings  will  be  lighter  if  boiled  in  a cloth  with  full  room  to 
swell  but  some  use  a mold  or  bowl  with  a cloth  tied  over  it.  The  bag  should 
be  wrung  out  of  hot  water  and  well  floured  on  the  inside.  As  a rule  boiled 
puddings  require  twice  as  long  for  cooking  as  those  that  are  baked.  Steamed 
puddings  are  likely  to  be  lighter  and  more  wholesome  than  those  that  are 
boiled  or  baked.  Put  over  cold  water  and  do  not  remove  cover  while  steaming. 

1.  Peach  or  Apple  Pudding. — Fill  a buttered  baking  dish  with  sliced 
apples  or  peaches  and  pour  over  the  top  a batter  made  of  1 tablespoonful 
of  butter,  1 egg,  V2  cup  of  sugar,  % cup  of  sweet  milk,  1 cup  of  flour  and 

1 teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a moderate  oven  until  brown. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

2.  Apple  Dicky. — A lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1 cup  of  sugar, 

2 cups  of  flour,  3 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  3^  cup  of  water,  1 egg,  a 
pinch  of  salt ; put  sliced  apples  in  a baking  dish,  pour  the  batter  over  them 
and  bake. 

3.  Black  Pudding. — To  one  well  beaten  egg  add  1 cup  of  molasses, 
1 cup  of  water,  1 teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  1 cup  of  flour. 
Do  not  stir.  Add  % cup  raisins,  cup  currants;  stir  in  flour,  raisins  and 
currants;  lastly,  add  1 pint  of  bread  crumbs.  Beat  all  well  together  and 
steam  three  hours. 

4.  Brown  Pudding. — One  cup  of  buttermilk,  2 cups  of  bread  crumbs 
fgraham,  white  or  mixed),  1 teaspoonful  of  soda.  Dissolve  soda  in  milk, 
let  stand  until  soft.  One  egg,  1 cup  brown  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
V2  cup  butter,  1 cup  raisins,  1 cup  flour ; pour  in  buttered  pan  and  steam  two 
hours.  Good  with  cream  and  sauce.  Can  be  steamed  over  and  be  as  good  as 
fresh. 

5.  Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. — Lay  6 slices  of  well  buttered  bread 
in  a pudding  dish  greased  with  butter  and  stew  with  seeded  raisins ; next 
beat  3 eggs  with  1 cup  of  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  of  vanilla  crystals,  and  stir 
in  1 quart  of  milk  and  fill  dish.  Bake  one-half  hour  in  quick  oven. 

6.  Bird’s  Nest  Pudding. — Stew  one  pint  of  apples  but  do  not  allow 
them  to  cook  to  pieces;  sweeten  to  taste,  having  them  well  covered  with 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 


171 


juice.  Take  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  stir  into  it  enough  flour  to  make  a 
thick  batter,  adding  to  the  flour  1 teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a little  salt 
and  sugar.  Then  drop  the  batter  into  the  boiling  sauce  and  either  steam 
on  the  stove  or  bake  in  the  oven.  When  done  grate  over  with  nutmeg  and 
serve  while  hot  with  cream.  Peaches,  strawberries,  blackberries,  raspberries, 
etc.,  in  season,  work  equally  as  well  as  apples. 

7.  Cocoanut  and  Tapioca  Pudding. — One  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  over 
night,  1 quart  of  milk,  1 cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  3 eggs,  whites  of  2,  2 table- 
spoonfuls of  grated  cocoanut;  bake  half  an  hour.  Use  for  a frosting  the 
beaten  white  of  one  egg,  sweetened,  with  a tablespoonful  of  cocoanut;  brown 
in  oven. 

8.  Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding.  — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  yolks  of 
3 eggs,  3 tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk,  1 ounce  melted  chocolate,  1 cup  flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  To  the  beaten  yolks  add  sugar  and  beat  until 
light.  Beat  whites  until  very  light  and  mix  with  baking  powder  and  flour, 
then  add  quickly  to  the  other  mixture.  Put  a large  spoonful  in  greased  cups 
and  steam  half  an  hour.  Sauce:  One  cup  sugar,  I/2  cup  of  butter,  beat  to  a 
cream ; add  1 teaspoonful  vanilla  and  V2  cup  of  milk ; stir  constantly  over  hot 
water,  cooking  until  smooth  and  creamy. 

9.  Baked  Indian  Pudding  with  Hard  Sauce. — Stir  6 tablespoonfuls  of 
cornmeal  into  1 quart  of  scalded  milk,  let  it  cool  just  a little.  Set  aside  to 
cool,  then  add  V2  cup  of  sugar,  2 eggs  well  beaten,  I/2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1 
tablespoonful  butter,  dust  of  cinnamon.  Bake  slowly  one  hour.  Sauce : 
Stir  to  a cream  a full  cup  of  sugar  and  scant  % cup  of  butter  and  juice  of  one 
lemon. 

10.  Fig  Pudding. — Two  large  cups  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  1 pound  of 
chopped  figs,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  6 tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter,  4 eggs,  2 cups  of  milk.  Butter  a pan  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs. 
Steam  4 hours.  Eat  hot  with  whipped  cream  or  good  sauce. 

11.  French  Pudding. — Cut  enough  thin  slices  of  bread  to  fill  a quart 
dish  half  full,  buttering  each  piece  lightly  before  cutting;  lay  them  loosely 
in  the  dish  and  sprinkle  over  them  % cup  of  sugar  and  a little  grated  nutmeg. 
Heat  1 quart  of  milk,  beat  the  yolks  of  4 eggs,  add  to  milk  just  before  boiling 
and  immediately  pour  over  bread.  Beat  the  whites,  add  a little  sugar  and 
spread  over  the  pudding.  Set  in  the  oven  a few  minutes  to  brown  slightly 
and  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  Serve  with  cream. 

12.  Fruit  Dowdy. — One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  3 large  (mix- 
ing) spoonfuls  of  flour,  salt,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  milk  to  wet 
stiff  enough  to  roll.  Put  any  kind  of  cooked  fruit  in  a basin  and  the  dough 
over  it  and  bake  in  a quick  oven. 

13.  Fruit  Pudding. — Two  well  beaten  eggs,  1 cup  each  of  butter,  sugar, 
molasses  and  sour  milk  in  which  dissolve  1 teaspoonful  of  soda,  % nutmeg 
grated,  1 teaspoonful  cinnamon,  % teaspoonful  cloves,  1 pound  each  of  raisins 
and  currants,  flour  to  stir  stiff ; bake  slowly  and  when  wanted  slice  and  steam 
and  serve  with  the  following  sauce : One  cup  sugar,  1 egg,  1/2  cup  butter, 
scant  tablespoonful  cornstarch,  1 cup  water;  cook  in  double  boiler,  remove 
from  fire,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

14.  Lemon  Pudding. — Two  cups  of  bread,  grated  or  chopped  very  fine 
after  removing  all  the  crusts ; grated  rind  of  1 lemon,  yolks  of  4 eggs,  % cup 
of  sugar,  1 quart  of  milk ; bake  about  20  minutes  or  half  an  hour  in  a good 


172 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


oven.  When  done  spread  whites  of  4 eggs,  well  beaten  with  % cup  of  sugar 
and  juice  of  lemon,  over  the  top.  Place  in  the  oven  and  brown  lightly. 

15.  English  Plum  Pudding. — One-half  pound  currants,  II/2  pounds 
raisins,  V2  pound  mixed  peel  or  citron,  % pound  bread  crumbs,  % pound  of 
suet,  8 eggs,  1 wine-glassful  brandy.  Stone  and  cut  raisins  in  halves.  Wash 
and  dry  the  currants.  Mince  suet  fine;  cut  candied  peel  into  thin  slices  and 
grate  bread  into  fine  crumbs.  When  all  these  are  prepared  mix  them  well 
together  and  moisten  the  mixture  with  the  eggs  well  beaten  and  the  brandy, 
and  put  the  pudding  into  a floured  cloth  and  boil  5 or  6 hours.  When  done 
hang  up  to  drain.  The  day  it  is  to  be  eaten  put  into  boiling  water  and  boil 
2 hours,  then  turn  it  out  of  the  cloth  and  serve  with  any  kind  of  sauce  you 
may  prefer. 

16.  Simple  Plum  Pudding. — One  cup  milk,  1 cup  suet  chopped  fine,  % 

cup  currants,  1 cup  raisins,  1 cup  Orleans  molasses,  1%  cups  flour,  1 table- 
spoonful citron  cut  fine,  1 teaspoonful  soda,  1 teaspoonful  ginger,  teaspoon- 
ful cloves.  Heat  the  milk  and  suet  together  slowly  but  do  not  boil.  Strain 
through  a sieve  to  take  out  lumps.  Then  add  molasses  and  flour  and  soda,  dis- 
solved in  a little  hot  water;  lastly,  the  spices  and  fruit,  cutting  the  raisins  in 
two  and  flouring  them ; add  a pinch  of  salt.  Put  buttered  paper  in  bottom  of 
the  pudding  dish  and  steam  the  pudding  4 hours.  Foam  Sauce  for  Plum 
Pudding:  One  cup  powdered  sugar,  2 eggs,  % cup  boiling  milk.  Beat 

whites  and  yolks  separately.  Add  sugar  to  yolks  and  work  it  in,  then  pour 
on  the  boiling  milk.  Set  it  in  very  hot  (but  not  boiling)  water,  stirring  now 
and  then  until  wanted ; then  beat  in  lightly  the  frothed  whites  and  flavor 
with  vanilla,  nutmeg  or  bitter  almond. 

17.  Prune  Pudding. — Soak  one  pound  of  prunes  over  night,  cook  soft, 
remove  seeds  and  whip  smooth  while  hot;  1 cup  pulverized  sugar.  Beat  the 
whites  of  2 eggs  to  a stiff  froth,  add  to  the  prunes,  put  in  a pudding  dish  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  Serve  with  cream  when  cold. 

18.  Quick  Puff  Pudding. — Stir  one  pint  of  flour,  a little  salt  and  2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking  powder  into  milk  until  very  soft.  Place  cups  well  greased 
with  butter  in  a steamer,  put  into  each  cup  a small  tablespoonful  of  batter, 
then  berries  or  other  fruit,  then  another  spoonful  of  batter;  cover  and  steam 
20  minutes.  Serve  with  cream  or  pudding  sauce. 

19.  Rice  Pudding. — One  quart  creamy  milk,  1 cup  rice,  4 eggs,  1 table- 
spoonful butter,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a pinch  of  salt.  Boil  rice  in  one  pint 
of  milk  until  tender;  remove;  add  eggs,  sugar,  milk  and  salt.  Pour  into 
pudding  dish;  add  butter  in  broken  pieces  on  top.  Bake  in  steady  oven 
for  half  an  hour.  Serve  with  simple  dressing. 

20.  Sponge  Pudding. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1 small  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
yolk  of  1 egg,  1 cup  of  milk,  3 cups  of  flour,  3 even  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Steam  1 hour.  Sauce : One-half  cup  of  butter,  yolk  of  one  egg,  1 
cup  of  sugar.  Mix  well,  cook  and  then  add  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg  and 
flavor. 

21.  Suet  Pudding. — One-half  cup  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  molasses,  1 cup  sour 
milk,  1 cup  suet,  1 cup  raisins,  3 cups  of  flour,  % teaspoonful  of  soda  and  salt, 
1 nutmeg,  and  cinnamon.  Steam  for  3 hours  and  serve  with  dip. 

22.  Cherry  Puffs. — Five  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1 teaspoonful  salt,  1 
cup  flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  % cup  of  milk,  1 cup  of  canned  cherries.  (All 
measurements  level.)  Mix  the  dry  ingredients ; put  in  the  butter;  add  the  milk 
and,  when  well  mixed,  the  cherries.  Steam  in  buttered  molds  for  45  mintites. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 


173 


Serve  with  foamy  sauce.  Foamy  Sauce : — Cream  % cup  of  butter ; add  % cup 
of  powdered  sugar;  mix  well;  add  3 tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  1 table- 
spoonful of  vanilla. 

23.  Strawberry  Shortcake. — Two  cups  of  flour,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  % cup  of  milk,  % cup  of  butter,  1 egg. 

24.  Vegetable  Pudding. — One  cup  of  grated  potatoes,  1 cup  of  grated 
carrots,  1 cup  of  brown  sugar,  1 cup  of  chopped  suet,  1 cup  of  flour  (after 
sifting),  V2  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  1 tablespoonful  of  water,  % teaspoonful 
of  salt,  1 cup  of  chopped  currants,  1 cup  of  chopped  raisins,  allspice  to  taste. 
Steam  for  3 or  4 hours. 

25.  Crystallized  Apples. — Boil  1 cup  of  sugar  in  2 cups  of  water  for 
5 minutes.  Pare  and  core  as  many  apples  as  desired  and  place  in  pan  without 
crowding ; cook  till  tender ; lift  out  carefully  and  put  in  baking  pan.  Sprinkle 
well  with  sugar  and  brown  slightly  in  moderate  oven.  Boil  down  the  syrup 
to  about  a cupful ; pour  around  but  not  on  the  apples.  When  cool  place  in 
a glass  dish  with  a little  currant  jelly  on  each  apple. 

26.  Cherry  Pudding. — One  cup  sour  milk,  1 teaspoonful  soda,  1 cup 
sugar,  1 egg,  1 cup  seeded  cherries,  flour  enough  to  make  a stiff  batter;  place 
in  cloth,  allowing  room  for  raising;  steam  40  minutes. 

27.  Currant  Pudding. — One-half  pound  raisins,  1 pound  currants,  % 
pound  of  finely  chopped  suet,  2 cups  of  sugar,  2 eggs,  1 nutmeg,  2 teaspoon- 
fuls of  cinnamon,  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1 teaspoonful  soda,  1 cup 
milk,  1 cup  water.  Mix  together  and  boil  for  5 hours.  Serve  with  cream 
or  dip. 

28.  Chocolate  Pudding. — One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1 pint  of  milk ; put 
this  in  a double  boiler  and  scald ; yolks  of  2 eggs,  % cup  sugar,  1 teaspoonful 
vanilla  and  1%  teaspoonfuls  of  cocoa  or  chocolate.  Add  the  milk  and  bread 
crumbs  to  this  and  bake  for  5 or  10  minutes.  When  done  spread  beaten 
whites  of  2 eggs  and  brown.  To  be  eaten  with  whipped  cream. 

29.  Rice  Pudding. — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  % cup  sugar,  1 quart 
of  milk ; bake  slowly  2 hours. 

30.  Cheap  Pudding. — One  quart  of  flour,  1 cup  chopped  suet,  V/z  tca- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder ; rub  flour  and  suet  together ; pound  raisins,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  1 teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  1 teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  1 cup  sugar.  Mix  with  water  or  milk  and  steam  2 hours. 

31.  Cottage  Pudding. — One  cup  milk,  1 cup  sugar,  1 egg,  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  1 pint  of  flour,  a pinch  of  salt,  1 heaping  teaspoonful  baking 
powder.  Sauce : — One  egg,  1 cup  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  flour,  small  piece  of 
butter;  mix  and  add  boiling  water;  let  come  to  boil;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

32.  Brown  Betty. — Soak  old  or  hard  bread  and  line  baking  dish  with 
these  crumbs.  Then  put  in  a layer  of  apples  sliced  very  thin  over  which 
sprinkle  sugar  and  add  little  bits  of  butter ; make  alternate  layers  of  crumbs 
and  apples  till  dish  is  full,  having  the  last  layer  of  crumbs.  Sprinkle  this 
well  with  sugar  and  bits  of  butter  and  cinnamon ; add  % cup  water  and  bake 
half  an  hour.  To  be  eaten  with  sweetened  cream. 

33. ^  Lemon  Rice  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  1 cup  rice,  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  pinch  of  salt;  cook  in  slow  oven  until  rice  is  soft.  Beat  the  whites  of 
2 eggs,  1 cup  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 lemon;  put  on  top  and 
return  to  the  oven  to  brown. 


174 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


34.  Date  Pudding. — Cream  a lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  with 
1 cup  of  sugar.  To  this  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2 eggs,  1/2  cup  of  milk  and 
the  whites  of  2 eggs  beaten  to  a stiff  froth ; also  2%  scant  cups  of  flour  and 
1 large  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  then  add  dates  or  other  fruit.  Sauce: 
One  egg,  3 tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1 tablespoonful  of  flour;  boil  and  then  add 
extract. 

35.  Cup  Pudding. — For  the  batter  use  2 eggs,  1 cup  sugar,  II/2  cups  of 
flour,  % cup  of  milk,  butter  size  of  walnut,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Fill  cups  half  full  of  berries  or  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit;  place  sufflcient  sugar 
over  the  fruit  and  a spoonful  of  batter  over  all;  steam  30  minutes.  Serve 
with  a sauce. 

36.  Orange  Pudding. — Peel  4 large  oranges  and  take  out  all  seeds  and 
white.  Cut  in  small  pieces.  After  covering  with  sugar,  let  stand  2 hours ; 
then  take  1 pint  of  milk,  2 tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  yolk  of  1 egg,  1 cup 
sugar ; cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick ; pour  over  oranges  and  stir  all 
together.  Beat  white  of  egg,  add  a small  amount  of  sugar  and  cover  pud- 
ding. Brown  in  oven. 

37.  Quick  Apple  Dumplings. — Pare  and  cut  into  small  pieces  6 quick 
cooking  apples ; lay  these  in  a deep  baking  dish  or  pan ; sprinkle  sugar  over 
them.  Make  a batter  of  3 cups  of  flour  in  which  2 teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  have  been  sifted,  and  a pinch  of  salt;  add  enough  water  to  make  a 
very  stiff  batter,  spread  this  over  the  apples  and  steam  30  minutes.  To  be 
eaten  with  sweetened  milk  or  cream. 

38.  Snow  Pudding. — Over  % box  of  gelatine  pour  1 pint  of  boiling 
water;  add  the  juice  of  1 lemon  and  IV2  cups  of  sugar;  when  nearly  cold, 
stir  in  the  whites  of  2 eggs  beaten  to  a stiff  froth.  Serve  with  boiled  custard. 

39.  Fruit  Roll. — One  egg,  % cup  sugar,  1%  to  2 cups  of  milk,  1 tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  4 cups  sifted  flour,  4 teaspoonfuls  of  Rumford  Baking  Pow- 
der, 1 cup  cleaned  currants  or  chopped  raisins.  Sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  and 
baking  powder  together ; beat  egg  light  and  add  to  milk ; flour  the  fruit 
and  mix  all  together.  Let  stand  20  minutes  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven 
1^4  hours;  cover  with  buttered  paper  if  baked  in  open  pan.  Butter  the  top 
with  melted  butter  if  covered  pans  are  used.  Be  sure  to  cover  close  while 
it  is  standing  the  20  minutes. 

40.  Bread  Pudding. — One  pint  grated  bread  crumbs,  1 quart  milk,  1 tea- 
spoonful  butter,  1 teacup  sugar,  3 eggs,  saving  whites  of  two  for  frosting. 
While  pudding  is  baking  heat  the  two  whites  until  very  stiff;  add  cup  of 
sugar  and  spread  on  pudding  as  soon  as  it  comes  from  oven;  then  set  in 
oven  again  to  brown. 

41.  Fruit  Juice  Blanc  Mange. — Sweeten  1 cup  of  fruit  juice  to  taste; 
then  stir  1 tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  into  a little  of  the  juice  and  then  into 
all.  Boil  until  as  thick  as  desired. 

42.  Raspberry  Float. — One  pint  red  raspberries,  1 pint  boiling  water, 
1 cup  sugar,  4 level  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  1 tablespoonful  lemon  juice; 
put  the  sugar  and  cornstarch  into  a sauce  pan,  mix  thoroughly,  pour  in  boil- 
ing water  and  stir  constantly  over  the  fire  until  clear;  remove,  add  lemon 
juice  and  berries  and  serve  very  cold  with  cream. 

43.  Gelatine  Jelly. — One  box  of  Cox’s  gelatine,  1 pint  of  cold  water  to 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 


175 


dissolve  it,  then  3 pints  of  boiling  water,  2 pounds  white  sugar,  1 pint  white 
wine  and  the  juice  of  3 lemons ; pour  into  a mold  and  set  on  ice. 

44.  Fruit  Puff  Pudding. — One  pint  flour,  2 teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
and  1 teaspoonful  salt,  mixed  thoroughly.  Make  into  a soft  batter  with  milk. 
Put  into  greased  cups  1 spoonful  of  batter,  then  apples  or  other  fruit  and 
cover  with  another  spoonful  of  batter.  Steam  I/2  hour  and  serve  with  liquid 
sauce  as  follows : One  cup  sugar,  % cup  butter  worked  to  a cream ; put  1U> 
cups  water  in  a sauce  pan;  when  it  begins  to  boil  thicken  with  flour  (mixed 
in  cold  water)  to  a consistency  of  cream.  Take  fronl  the  fire  and  stir  rapidly 
into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  any  desired  flavoring. 
For  a sour  sauce  use  vinegar. 

45.  Prune  Whip. — Beat  whites  of  4 eggs  stiff;  add  small  cup  sugar, 
Yo  teaspoonful  vanilla,  % cup  stewed  prunes  pitted  and  chopped  fine.  Put 
into  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a moderate  oven. 

46.  Blanc  Mange. — Dissolve  one-half  box  of  gelatine  by  soaking  it  in 
a half  cup  of  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Blanch  four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds 
and  one-half  ounce  of  bitter  almonds  and  pound  them  together  in  a mortar 
occasionally  moistening  with  orange-flower  water.  Put  the  pounded  almonds 
into  one  quart  of  fresh  cream,  set  them  over  a fire  and  stir  constantly  till 
they  come  to  a scald  and  then  pour  in  the  gelatine. 


SAUCES. 

Use  brown  or  powdered  sugar  for  sauces  and  do  not  boil  them  after  the 
butter  is  added.  Instead  of  wine  or  brandy,  grape  or  other  fruit  may  be 
used  as  a sauce  flavor. 

1.  Cream  Sauce  for  Puddings. — One-third  cup  of  milk,  1 pint  of  cream, 
% cup  powdered  sugar,  % teaspoonful  vanilla.  Mix  the  cream  and  milk 
and  beat  until  stiff  with  an  egg  beater.  Add  sugar  and  vanilla. 

2.  Hot  Chocolate  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream  or  Pudding. — In  a granite  sauce 
pan  place  1 pound  of  light  brown  sugar,  I/4  pint  fresh  milk,  2 ounces  of 
chocolate  grated,  1 ounce  of  good  butter.  Boil  together  until  it  forms  a 
soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Take  from  the  stove  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Serve  hot ; can  De  made  beforehand  and  heated  when  wanted. 

3.  Hard  Sauce. — One  cup  powdered  sugar  and  cup  of  butter  creamed 
together,  1 teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

4.  Lemon  Sauce. — One  tablespoonful  butter,  1 tablespoonful  corn- 
starch, Y2  cup  sugar,  1 egg,  1 pint  boiling  water;  put  cornstarch,  egg,  sugar 
and  butter  together  and  beat  well,  then  pour  o’^^er  them  the  boiling  water  and 
stir  over  fire  until  thick ; take  from  fire  and  add  as  much  lemon  juice  as 
desired. 

5.  Pudding  Sauce. — One-half  cup  butter,  1 cup  sugar,  1 tablespoonful 
flour,  1 pint  boiling  water;  boil;  add  desired  flavor. 

6.  Fig  Sauce. — Soak  figs  in  cold  water  or  a little  sour  cider  all  night; 
the  cider  is  better.  Then  boil  them  gently  until  they  are  tender,  just 
before  taking  them  from  the  fire  add  sugar  to  your  taste.  If  you  do  not  use 
cider  the  juice  of  one  or  two  lemons  should  be  used  to  prevent  the  sauce 
from  tasting  insipid. 


176 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS. 

“ An’t  please  your  Honour,”  quoth  the  Peasant, 

“ This  same  dessert  is  very  pleasant.” 

—Pope. 

We  give  herewith  a recipe  that  is  the  ground  work  of  all  creams  made 
with  custard : — 

Stir  two  ounces  of  lump  sugar,  or  sufficient  for  the  purpose  required, 
into  a pint  of  boiling  milk.  Have  ready  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and 
pour  the  boiling  milk  over  them.  Put  into  a stew  pan,  place  over  a slow 
fire  and  stir  with  a wooden  spoon  as  briskly  as  possible  for  twenty  minutes 
or  until  it  begins  to  thicken ; then  set  on  the  coolest  part  of  the  range  where 
it  cannot  simmer  and  let  it  stand  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 
When  the  custard  is  ready  it  should  be  poured  into  a basin  and  flavored  with 
vanilla,  lemon  or  almond.  Stir  until  cool  so  as  to  prevent  a skin  forming 
over  the  top. 

The  secret  of  making  a custard  is  in  the  stirring  and  when  this  is  prop- 
erly done,  a custard  made  with  milk  and  the  number  of  eggs  given  in  this 
recipe  will  be  as  rich  as  one  made  with  cream  and  a greater  number  of  eggs. 

Eor  cream  and  custards,  eggs  should  be  beaten  in  stone  or  earthenware 
but  never  in  tin. 

Custard  should  always  be  baked  slowly  in  a moderate  oven  for  too  much 
heat  will  turn  it  to  whey.  The  rule  for  a custard  to  bake  is  one  cup  of 
sugar,  four  eggs  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a quart  of  milk. 

In  boiling  custard  always  use  a double  vessel.  It  is  well  to  bake  cus- 
tards in  small  cups  to  be  served  to  each  person 

Remember  that  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  are  used  with  sugar,  and  cloves 
and  allspice  with  meats. 

Only  the  outer  part  of  lemon  rind  should  be  used.  A good  way  is  to 
rub  it  off  with  hard  lumps  of  sugar.  The  sugar  thus  becomes  saturated  with 
the  oil  of  the  lemon. 

1.  Apple  Float. — Beat  the  whites  of  4 eggs  to  a stiff  froth ; add  4 large 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  until  fine  and  dry ; pare  2 large, 
tart  apples  and  grate  into  this  mixture  a little  at  a time,  beating  all  the  while. 
Plave  ready  a good  sized  glass  dish  partly  filled  with  whipped  cream ; heap 
this  by  tablespoonfuls  over  the  surface  and  dot  here  and  there  with  candied 
cherries. 

2.  Apple  Snow. — Peel  and  grate  2 small  sour  apples,  sprinkling  over 
it  a smali  cup  of  powdered  sugar  as  you  grate,  in  order  to  keep  it  from  turn- 
ing dark.  Break  the  whites  of  2 eggs  into  this  and  beat  it  constantly  for 
half  an  hour.  Have  it  on  a large  platter  as  it  beats  up  very  stiff  and  light. 
Heap  in  a glass  dish,  pour  a fine,  smooth  custard  around  it  and  serve. 

3.  Banana  Pudding. — Two  eggs,  1 quart  of  milk,  II/2  teaspoonfuls  of 
cornstarch  or  flour,  1 teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  4 tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  cook 
in  double  boiler  and  when  cool  pour  over  6 bananas  sliced  very  thin.  It  is 
like  ice  cream. 

4.  Bavarian  Cream. — One  and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  % box  of  gelatine 
soaked  in  ^/2  pint  of  water,  3 eggs,  1 cup  of  sugar,  salt.  Put  sugar  and  milk 
on  to  heat,  then  put  in  yolks  mixed  in  a little  of  the  cold  milk,  then  add  gela- 
tine and  the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  over  bananas  or  fruit  if 
desired 


CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS. 


177 


5.  Charlotte  Russe. — Soften  1 teaspoonful  of  gelatine  in  enough  cold 
water  to  cover.  When  well  soaked  add  a little  boiling  water  to  dissolve  it 
and  4 heaping  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar.  When  cool  strain  slowly 
into  a pint  of  rich  cream  that  has  been  chilled  and  whipped  to  a stiff  froth, 
beating  all  the  time  while  adding  ingredients.  Flavor  to  fancy. 

6.  Cherry  Tapioca,- — Soak  over  night  4 tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in 
a pint  of  water.  Take  a pint  of  stoned  cherries,  add  their  juice  to  the  tapioca, 
stir  in  a pint  of  water  and  enough  sugar  to  sweeten,  boil  gently  for  15  minutes. 
Add  the  fruit  and  boil  5 minutes  more.  Serve  very  cold  with  plain  or 
whipped  cream. 

7.  Custard. — One  tablespoonful  of  flour,  2 of  butter  and  4 of  sugar; 
stir  to  a cream,  add  the  white  of  1 egg,  pour  % pint  of  boiling  water  over, 
stirring  constantly.  When  cool,  add  1 teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Cake  Part  for  Above.— One-half  cup  of  sugar,  yolk  of  one  egg,  1 tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder,  4 tablespoonfuls  of  water,  cups  of  flour. 

8.  Custard  Souffle. — Two  scant  tablespoonfuls  each  of  flour  and  butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  milk  and  4 eggs ; let  the  milk  come  to  a 
boil.  Beat  flour  and  butter  together;  add  gradually  to  the  boiling  milk  and 
cook  8 minutes.  Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  together,  add  to  the  cooked  mix- 
ture and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cool  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Pour  into  a well  buttered  pudding  dish,  bake  20  minutes  and  serve  with  a 
creamy  sauce. 

9.  Fruit  Jelly.— Soak  box  of  gelatine  in  1 pint  of  cold  water  until 
dissolved;  then  add  2 cups  of  sugar,  pulp  and  juice  of  1 lemon,  1 pint  of 
boiling  water.  Strain  over  any  fruit  desired  and  let  thicken. 

10.  Mock  Whipped  Cream. — To  one  large,  sour  apple,  peeled  and  grated, 
add  the  white  of  one  egg  and  one  cup  of  sugar;  beat  all  together  a long 
time ; flavor  with  vanilla.  Mix  apple  with  sugar  as  soon  as  possible  after 
grating  to  keep  the  apple  from  turning  dark.  This  is  used  like  whipped 
cream  and  is  delicious.  Very  nice  served  on  squares  of  sponge  cake. 

11.  Orange  Float, — Slice  2 oranges  and  lay  in  sugar  for  an  hour  or 
longer.  Make  a custard  of  one  pint  of  water,  1 heaping  tablespoonful  of 
cornstarch,  1 cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  1 lemon  ; cook  until  as  thick  as 
custard  and  when  cold  pour  over  the  oranges.  If  desired  place  the  beaten 
whites  of  2 eggs  on  top,  sweetened,  and  brown  in  oven, 

12.  Pretty  Pudding. — One  cup  of  water,  1 cup  of  fruit  juice,  a pinch  of 
salt,  a little  sugar  if  needed,  3 tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  ; boil  10  minutes, 
take  off  and  beat  in  whites  of  2 eggs.  Cool  and  serve  with  a sauce  made  of 
1 pint  of  milk,  3 tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  3 eggs.  Cook  and 
flavor. 

13.  Pink  Cream.— Three  gills  of  currant  or  strawberry  juice.  Mix  with 
% pound  of  powdered  sugar,  % pint  of  thick  cream;  whisk  until  well  mixed 
and  serve  in  a glass  dish. 

14.  Raspberry  Whip.— One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  white  of  one  egg, 
1%  cups  of  berries.  Put  all  in  a bowl  and  beat  with  wire  whisk  about  half 
an  hour,  or  until  stiff  enough  to  hold  in  shape.  Pile  lightly  on  dish,  chill, 
surround  with  lady  fingers  and  serve  with  thick  cream.  Strawberry  whip 
may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

15.  Russian  Cream.— Soak  i/o  pound  of  gelatine  for  half  an  hour  in  a 
little  water;  1 cup  of  sugar,  1 quart  of  milk,  4 eggs;  mix  sugar,  milk,  yolks 
of  eggs  and  gelatine  together.  Set  in  a kettle  of  water  and  boil  20  minutes. 

2—12 


178 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  stir  into  the  custard  after  taking  from  the  fire. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

16.  Spanish  Cream. — Cover  one-third  box  of  Cox’s  gelatine  with  cold 
water  and  let  it  stand  for  an  hour.  It  should  then  have  absorbed  all  the  water. 
Heat  three  cups  of  milk ; add  to  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  3 eggs,  a cup  of  sugar 
and  the  gelatine,  with  a half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  this  over  the  fire  and 
as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a boil  remove  it  to  a table  and  add  the  beaten  whites 
of  3 eggs  and  half  a teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour  this  into  molds  and  cool. 
Give  it  time  enough  in  a cool  place  until  it  becomes  firm. 

17.  Strawberry  Foam. — Mash  1 quart  of  strawberries  with  1 large  cup 
of  sugar ; rub  through  a sieve ; add  % ounce  of  gelatine,  dissolved  and  strained. 
Whip  1 pint  of  cream;  beat  the  whites  of  2 eggs  and  fold  into  the  straw- 
berry juice;  set  on  ice  to  chill.  Serve  in  glasses  with  fancy  cakes. 

18.  Velvet  Cream  (Elegant). — Put  3 large  spoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar 
into  1/2  pint  of  cream  beaten  to  a stiff  froth ; add  a large  spoonful  of  gela- 
tine dissolved  in  a little  water.  Flavor  with  a teaspoonful  of  brandy  or 
tablespoonful  of  sherry;  let  harden  and  serve  with  any  fruit  juice. 

19.  Kiss  Pudding. — Beat  the  yolks  of  3 eggs  with  % cup  of  sugar  till 
light;  add  1Y2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch;  stir  in  1 pint  of  boiling  milk;  stir 
on  the  stove  until  thick ; pour  into  a pudding  dish ; beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  with  % cup  of  sugar  and  spread  over  the  top  and  brown. 

20.  Spanish  Cream. — Make  a soft  custard  of  1 quart  of  milk,  6 table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar,  6 eggs ; put  1 box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  1 pint  of  water 
over  the  fire ; add  the  custard ; flavor. 

21.  Apple  Custard. — Take  1 pint  of  mashed  stewed  apples,  1 pint  of 
sweet  milk,  1 cup  of  sugar,  4 eggs  and  a little  nutmeg;  bake  slowly. 

22.  Charlotte  Russe. — Three-fourths  quart  of  rich  cream,  % pint  boiling 
milk,  2 tablespoonfuls  gelatine,  2 tablespoonfuls  pulverized  sugar,  1 teaspoon- 
fiil  vanilla.  Put  gelatine  to  soak  in  a little  cold  milk,  then  pour  the  boiling 
milk  over  it.  To  the  cream  add  sugar  and  vanilla  and  whip  till  stiff ; strain 
the  milk  containing  gelatine  and  when  cold  mix  with  whipped  cream,  beat- 
ing while  mixing.  Lay  some  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake  or  some  lady  fingers 
in  a mold ; pour  mixture  over  them  and  set  aside  until  stiff. 

23.  Lemon  Gelatine. — One-half  pint  cream,  whipped,  1 cup  gelatine,  2 
cups  granulated  sugar  boiled  to  a syrup  with  water  and  set  aside  to  get  cold ; 
1 cup  ground  pineapple  improves  it;  vanilla  to  taste. 


ICE  CREAMS,  SHERBETS  AND  ICES. 

“ Give  us  the  luxuries  of  life,  and  we  will  dispense  with  the  necessaries.” 

Ice  cream  is  richer  when  cream  is  used  instead  of  milk ; however,  milk 
alone  may  be  used  or  milk  and  cream  together.  A number  of  varieties  are 
obtained  by  adding  various  flavors  and  colors  to  vanilla  ice  cream,  so  we 
will  first  give  a recipe  for  it.  In  making  such  ice  cream  as  lemon,  etc., 
from  vanilla  ice  cream  where  the  extract  is  used  without  the  fruit,  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  extract  to  one  gallon  of  vanilla  ice  cream.  Ice  cream 
expands  in  freezing  so  that  the  freezer  does  not  need  to  be  filled  at  first. 

In  making  ices  be  sure  to  use  enough  sugar  and  fruit  for  part  of  their 


ICE  CREAM,  SHERBETS  AND  ICES.  179 

taste  is  lost  in  freezing.  There  must  be  enough  fruit,  also,  to  give  body  to 
the  ice.  / 

1.  Vanilla  and  Lemon  Ice  Cream.^ — To  make  a gallon  freezer  full,  take 
2%  quarts  of  cream,  18  ounces  of  granulated  sugar,  3 eggs  well  beaten  and 
1 tablespoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Freeze  until  stiff.  To  make  lemon  ice 
cream  add  1 tablespoonful  of  lemon  extract  to  a gallon  of  vanilla  ice  cream. 

2.  Chocolate  Ice  Cream. — Shave  4 ounces  of  bitter  chocolate  very  fine 
and  add  to  it,  a little  at  a time,  1 teacup  of  hot  cream,  rubbing  continually 
with  a spoon  till  the  chocolate  is  all  dissolved  and  smooth.  Whip  this  thor- 
oughly into  one  gallon  of  vanilla  ice  cream. 

3.  Strawberry  Ice  Cream. — Wash  1 quart  of  strawberries,  cover  with 
sugar  and  let  stand  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  pass  through  a fine 
cloth ; add  1 tablespoonful  of  strawberry  extract  and  whip  into  a gallon  of 
vanilla  ice  cream. 

4.  Banana  Ice  Cream. — Remove  all  dark  spots  from  4 bananas,  mash 
thoroughly  and  whip  into  1 gallon  of  vanilla  ice  cream. 

5.  Almond  Ice  Cream. — One  pint  of  blanched  almonds,  1 pint  of  milk, 
1 quart  of  cream,  1 cup  of  sugar.  Brown  the  almonds,  then  pound  them 
to  a paste  in  a mortar;  cook  the  milk  and  pounded  almonds  together,  then 
add  the  sugar  and  cook  for  a few  moments ; strain  the  mixture  through  a 
sieve,  pressing  through  as  much  of  the  almond  as  possible ; when  cold  add 
the  cream  and  % teaspoonful  of  almond  extract.  Freeze  and  when  hard  let 
stand  2 hours  to  ripen. 

6.  Caramel  Ice  Cream. — Put  1 quart  of  milk  in  a double  boiler;  when 
hot  add  1 tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  moistened  with  milk,  yolks  of  4 beaten 
eggs  and  % cup  of  sugar;  boil  to  the  consistency  of  custard.  Scorch  1 cup 
of  maple  molasses  or  % pound  maple  sugar ; add  a little  water  to  it,  then  add 
to  the  custard;  cool,  add  1 pint  of  cream  and  freeze. 

7.  Cocoanut  Ice  Cream. — Grate  a large  cocoanut  very  fine ; add  a cup 
of  sugar  and  the  cocoanut  to  a quart  of  cream  and  a little  milk ; when  half 
frozen  add  the  well  beaten  white  of  an  egg, 

8.  Macaroon  Ice  Cream. — One  scant  cup  of  sugar,  1 quart  of  cream, 
flavor  to  taste.  If  it  is  not  wanted  so  rich  a little  milk  may  be  added.  Set 
% pound  of  macaroons  in  the  oven  for  a few  minutes  to  become  brittle ; roll 
fine  and  stir  into  the  cream  and  freeze. 

9.  New  York  Ice  Cream. — Scant  half  cup  of  flour,  1 pint  of  milk,  2 
well  beaten  eggs.  Alix  flour  smooth  with  a little  of  the  milk;  add  to  the  rest 
of  the  milk  and  the  beaten  eggs  and  % cup  of  sugar;  boil  in  a double  boiler; 
when  cool  add  1 quart  of  cream  and  strain.  When  nearly  frozen  add  candied 
fruit  that  has  been  cut  fine  and  Soaked  in  2 tablespoonfuls  of  sherry,  and  one 
more  cup  of  sugar. 

10.  Peach  Ice  Cream. — Slice  very  ripe  fruit  and  let  stand  in  sugar 
an  hour  or  two ; before  using  run  through  a potato  masher,  or  coarse  cheese 
cloth,  and  add  to  the  partly  frozen  ice  cream.  If  desired,  one  or  two  peaches 
cut  fine  but  not  mashed,  may  be  added  at  the  last.  A quart  of  peaches  to 
a cup  of  sugar  is  a good  proportion. 

11.  Pineapple  Ice  Cream. — One  pint  of  milk,  1 quart  of  cream,  1 can 
of  grated  pineapple,  1 pound  of  sugar,  the  white  of  an  egg  and  the  juice  of 
a lemon.  Heat  the  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  stir  in  the  sugar,  and  set 
aside  to  cool ; as  soon  as  the  milk  is  cold  add  the  cream  and  pineapple  and 
freeze. 


180 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  ROOK. 


12.  Raspberry  Ice  Cream.— One  large  cup  of  sugar,  1 quart  of  rasp- 
berries, 1 quart  of  cream,  1 pint  of  milk ; mash  the  sugar  and  berries  and 
let  them  stand  half  an  hour,  then  squeeze  them  through  cheese  cloth ; after 
this  has  been  done  pour  the  milk  on  the  pulp  and  squeeze  again  until  per- 
fectly dry.  There  should  be  nothing  left  in  the  cloth  but  seeds.  Add 
to  the  cream  and  freeze.  Some  add  the  juice  of  a lemon. 

13.  Roman  Cream, — Put  i/4  box  of  gelatine  into  1 quart  of  milk ; soak  a 
little  while,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2 eggs  and  1 cup  of  sugar;  cook  for 
a few  minutes,  then  add  the  beaten  whites;  cool  and  freeze.  To  give  it  a 
caramel  flavor,  scorch  some  of  the  sugar. 

14.  Lemon  Ice. — Take  the  juice  of  6 or  8 lemons  and  the  grated  peel  of 
three.  Sweeten  with  Sugar  or  syrup  to  taste,  remembering  that  part  of  the 
flavor  is  lost  in  freezing.  Add  2 eggs  well  whipped  and  ounce  of  gelatine 
dissolved  in  hot  water.  Strain  the  whole  and  freeze. 

15.  Orange  Ice.— Using  oranges  in  place  of  lemons  proceed  as  for  lemon 
ice.  Add  the  juice  of  the  two  or  three  lemons  as  the  taste  of  orange  alone 
is  not  sufficiently  distinct  in  an  ice. 

16.  Cherry  Ice.— Take  2Y2  quarts  of  cherry  juice  and  the  juice  of  2 
lemons.  Add  a few  drops  of  the  essence  of  bitter  almonds  and  cochineal  to 
color.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze. 

17.  Currant  Ice.— Take  3 pints  of  ripe  currants,  1 pint  of  red  rasp- 
berries and  Y2  pint  of  water.  Simmer  for  a few  minutes,  strain  through  a hair 
sieve,  add  another  Y2  pint  of  water  and  12  ounces  of  sugar  and  it  is  ready  for 
freezing. 

18.  Strawberry  Ice, — Take  4 pounds  of  fresh  strawberries  and  the  juice 
of  2 or  3 lemons ; color  with  cochineal  and  sweeten  to  taste.  The  strawberries 
and  lemon  juice  with  a little  sugar  should  be  passed  through  a sieve,  then 
the  rest  of  the  sugar  and  the  color  should  be  added  before  freezing. 

19.  Cranberry  Ice. — Stew  1 quart  of  cranberries  in  enough  water  to 

cover  them.  When  they  are  soft,  mash  and  strain  through  a sieve;  add  one 
pound  of  sugar;  dissolve  one  package  of  lemon  JelLo  in  a pint  of  warm 

water;  add  to  the  berries  and  when  cold,  freeze. 

20.  Peach  Ice. — Four  cups  granulated  sugar,  1 can  peaches,  juice  of  3 

lemons,  whites  of  2 eggs,  3 pints  water.  Cook  peaches,  lemon  juice  and 

sugar  together ; when  cool,  add  chopped  peaches  and  whites  of  eggs ;'  freeze. 

21.  Currant  Sherbet. — One  pint  of  red  currant  juice,  one  pound  sugar, 
juice  of  3 lemons,  1 pint  of  boiling  water.  Dissolve  sugar  in  boiling  water; 
when  cold,  add  currant  juice  and  freeze.  Makes  3 pints. 

22.  Lemon  Sherbet, — One  cup  of  sugar,  1 pint  of  milk,  1 lemon.  Partly 
freeze  the  milk  and  sugar;  then  add  the  strained  juice  of  the  lemon  and  freeze 
stiff.  A little  cream  will  improve  it.  This  will  make  one  quart.  If  desired, 
one  can  of  pineapple  may  be  added.  ■ 

23.  Green  Grape  Sherbet. — Strain  one  quart  of  grapes  through  a cloth ; 
sweeten  to  taste.  If  too  acid  add  from  a pint  to  a pint  and  a half  of  water. 
Beat  the  whites  of  4 eggs,  and  put  the  mixture  into  the  freezer  and  turn  slowly 
until  frozen.  This  quantity  makes  a good  gallon  when  finished.  It  is  very 
white  and  beautiful  and  the  medical  properties  of  grape  juice  render  it  highly 
digestible. 

24.  Orange  Sherbet.— One  scant  pint  of  cold  water,  1 tablespoonful  of 
gelatine,  1 cup  sugar,  6 oranges  or  one  pint  orange  juice,  Y2  cup  boiling 
water.  Soak  gelatine  for  10  minutes  in  W cup  of  cold  water;  put  sugar  and 


ICE  CREAM,  SHERBETS  AND  ICES. 


lai 

remainder  of  cold  water  into  pitcher,  also  the  orange  juice;  if  the  oranges 
are  very  sour  add  more  sugar.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water 
and  add  to  the  mixture.  Strain  into  the  can  and  freeze. 

25.  Pineapple  Sherbet. — Three  lemons,  1 can  of  pineapple,  3 cups  of 
sugar,  2 quarts  of  water,  whites  of  3 eggs.  Whip  the  whites  until  stiff  and 
add  to  the  mixture  after  it  is  frozen ; turn  awhile  to  thoroughly  mix  it. 

26.  Bisque  Glace.— One  pint  sweet  milk,  1 quart  cream,  V/2  dozen  mac- 
aroons, % pint  sherry  wine,  ^4  box  of  gelatine ; roll  macaroons  and  soak  in 
wine;  let  milk  come  to  a boil  and  pour  over  gelatine  undissolved.  When 
cold  mix  all  together,  sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze. 

27.  Frozen  Fruit. — Six  oranges,  1 ten-cent  can  of  pineapple,  1 pound  white 
grapes,  4 lemons,  1 fifteen-cent  bottle  of  cherries,  4 large  cups  sugar,  1 table- 
spoonful of  gelatine.  Cut  the  cherries  and  grapes  in  halves,  and  pineapple 
into  small  pieces ; divide  the  oranges  into  quarters  and  remove  all  pith  and 
dividing  skin  as  far  as  possible,  cutting  the  fruit  into  small  pieces.  Add 
the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  the  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  water  and  the 
sugar.  Freeze  shortly  before  serving,  about  as  one  would  freeze  sherbet, 
being  careful  not  to  make  it  too  solid.  This  will  serve  about  40  people  if 
served  in  small  sherbet  cups  and  costs,  including  ice  to  freeze,  about  75  cents. 

28.  Maple  Frappe. — One  large  cup  of  maple  syrup,  yolks  of  4 eggs ; 
cook  until  smooth,  cool,  and  add  1 quart  of  cream ; freeze.  This  is  sufficient 
for  10  people. 

29.  Three  of  a Kind. — The  juice  of  3 lemons  and  3 oranges,  3 bananas, 
mashed  fine,  3 scant  cups  of  sugar,  3 cups  of  water.  Mix  and  freeze.  This 
will  make  2 quarts. 

30.  Plum  Glace.— One  and  one-half  pounds  of  conserves,  pears,  pine- 
apple, cherries,  plums,  etc.  Bake  a sponge  cake  in  a long  pan,  cut  in  slices, 
soak  the  cake  in  1 pint  of  Angelica  wine.  Make  a custard  of  1 quart  of  milk, 
the  yolks  of  4 eggs,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a little  salt  and  sweeten  to  taste ; 
let  cool.  Put  a layer  of  fruit  and  cake  in  mold,  then  pour  over  custard. 
Freeze  12  hours  with  a tight  lid  over  it — like  ice  cream,  only  do  not  stir. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  pineapple. 

31.  Tutti  Frutti. — When  vanilla  ice  cream  is  partially  frozen  add 
candied  cherries,  chopped  citron,  chopped  raisins  or  other  candied  fruit 
chopped  rather  fine.  Use  about  half  the  quantity  of  fruit  that  there  is  ice 
cream. 


BEVERAGES. 

Including  Punch,  Fruit  Juices  and  Home-Made  Wines. 

Drink,  pretty  creature,  drink. — Wordsworth. 

“ Polly,  put  the  kettle  on,  and  we’ll  all  take  tea.” 

1.  Dandelion  Wine. — One  full  quart  of  dandelion  blooms,  1 gallon 
water,  1 lemon  cut  in  slices  (not  peeled),  2%  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  in  a kettle 


182 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


and  boil  5 minutes,  then  pour  into  a jar;  when  cold,  add  2 tablespoonfuls 
of  good  yeast.  Keep  in  a warm  place  3 days  until  it  ferments,  then  strain 
and  bottle;  cork  tightly. 

2.  Grape  Juice. — Three  pounds  of  sugar  to  two  baskets  or  20  pounds 
of  grapes.  Wash  and  break  from  the  stems,  barely  cover  with  water,  mash 
and  boil  from  15  to  20  minutes;  then  let  it  slowly  drain  through  cheese 
cloth ; add  the  sugar  and  let  boil  again.  Bottle  and  seal  immediately. 

3.  Punch. — Juice  of  3 oranges,  juice  of  3 lemons,  3 cups  of  sugar,  2 
quarts  of  water,  1 pint  of  port  wine  or  fruit  juice  and  add  a few  cherries 
or  pineapple,  chopped. 

4.  Elder  Blossom  Wine. — Add  1 gallon  of  boiling  water  to  1 quart  of 
elder  blossoms  and  let  stand  1 hour;  then  strain  and  add  3 pounds  of  sugar; 
boil  a little  and  skim.  Let  stand  until  lukewarm ; then  add  1 lemon,  sliced 
fine,  and  1 tablespoonful  good  yeast.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Then  strain  and 
put  into  bottles  or  jugs,  filling  full  until  all  impurities  are  worked  out.  Be 
sure  to  fill  up  jugs  as  fast  as  it  works  out,  and  the  wine  will  be  a beauti- 
ful amber  color.  In  making  this  wine,  great  care  should  be  taken  to  keep 
all  stems  out,  as  they  make  the  wine  taste  rank  and  give  it  a dark  color. 

5.  A Grapefruit  Cocktail. — Break  up  the  pulp  of  2 grapefruit  and 
pour  over  it  % pint  of  brandy  and  i/2  pint  of  sherry.  See  that  this  covers 
the  fruit.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  % pint  of  maraschino  cherries  and  the  liquor.  This  may  be  strained 
and  served  without  the  fruit  if  preferred. 

6.  Raisin  Wine. — Two  pounds  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  fine,  1 
pound  of  sugar,  1 lemon  and  about  2 gallons  of  boiling  water.  Put  into  a 
stone  jar  and  stir  daily  for  6 or  8 days;  then  strain  and  bottle  and  put  in 
a cool  place  for  10  days  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

7.  Roman  Punch. — Make  a rich  punch  of  oranges,  lemons  and  pine* 
apple.  When  partly  frozen  pour  into  it  a pint  of  rum;  some  also  add  the 
sweetened  whites  of  two  eggs.  All  of  the  punch  can  be  added  or  a part  re- 
served and  poured  over  the  mixture  after  placed  in  the  glasses. 

8.  Tea  Punch. — Six  oranges,  6 lemons,  6 bananas,  1 can  grated  pine* 
apple.  Make  strong  tea,  about  2 quarts ; add  sugar  to  taste  and  serve  ice  cold, 

9.  Communion  Wine. — Twenty  pounds  of  grapes  after  taking  off  the 
stems,  6 quarts  of  water,  6 pounds  granulated  sugar.  Put  grapes  and  water 
in  stone  or  earthen  jars  over  the  fire  until  the  skins  and  seeds  separate 
from  pulp.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth  and  return  to  jars  ; add  sugar  and 
mix  thoroughly,  using  china  cup  or  wooden  spoon ; use  no  tin,  iron  or  even 
silver  about  the  wine.  Strain  again  through  fresh  cheese  cloth  and  put  in 
jars  over  the  fire.  Do  not  boil  it  hard  but  allow  it  to  heat  gradually  until 
it  begins  to  simmer  or  stir  from  the  heat.  Bottle  at  once. 

10.  Kentucky  Egg  Nog. — Stir  % of  a cup  of  sugar  into  6 eggs  that  have 
been  beaten  until  light.  When  dissolved  add  12  tablespoonfuls  of  best 
whiskey.  The  whiskey  is  intended  to  cook  the  egg  and  the  quantity  used 
depends  upon  its  strength.  Mix  a pint  of  rich  cream  with  the  other  in* 
gredients.  This  makes  6 glasses  of  egg  nog.  Grate  a little  nutmeg  over  the 
top  of  each  glass  when  filled. 

11.  Lamb’s  Wool. — Boil  3 quarts  of  sharp  cider  down  to  2 quarts  and 
while  it  is  still  boiling  add  a teacup  of  brown  sugar,  also  a teaspoonful  each 


BEVERAGES. 


183 


oi  allspice,  ginger,  cloves  and  cinnamon ; place  the  spice  in  a bag  so  it  can 
be  removed.  Core  and  bake  6 good  cooking  apples  until  well  done,  scoop  the 
apple  out  of  the  peel  and  put  through  a sieve.  While  the  apples  are  still 
hot  add  them,  with  % teacup  of  brandy,  to  the  cider  and  serve  hot. 

12.  Cream  Toddy. — First  whip  a pint  of  rich  sweet  cream,  then  put  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  whiskey  and  2 teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  in  a glass  and  fill  with 
whipped  cream  and  stir  well ; two  or  three  candied  cherries  may  be  placed 
on  each  glass. 

13.  Wassail  Bowl. — With  half  a pound  of  Demerara  sugar  mix  % 
ounce  of  grated  ginger,  a pinch  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  half  a grated 
nutmeg.  Put  this  into  a sauce  pan  with  a pint  of  ale,  and  let  it  boil ; then 
stir  in  two  more  pints  of  ale,  half  a bottle  of  Madeira,  sherry  or  raisin  wine, 
and  a large  lump  of  sugar  which  has  been  rubbed  on  a fresh  lemon  rind  until 
the  yellow  part  is  taken  off.  Now  let  the  wine  get  very  hot  but  do  not  let 
it  boil.  Pour  it  into  a bowl  and  throw  into  it  six  roasted  apples  and  half  a 
small  lemon  cut  in  slices  with  the  white  pith  cut  out.  Serve  very  hot. 

14.  A Cranberry  Drink. — Put  % pint  of  cranberries  over  the  fire  to  boil. 
In  another  vessel  boil  half  a gallon  of  water,  the  peel  of  half  a lemon  and 
an  ounce  of  oatmeal  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  cranberries  and 
water  and  a little  sugar  but  not  enough  to  take  away  the  acid  of  the  fruit ; 
put  in  2 glasses  of  wine.  Boil  for  20  minutes,  strain  and  serve  cold. 

15.  Orange  Toddy. — Take  two  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  four  ounces 
of  strained  orange  juice,  a strip  or  two  of  orange  rind,  half  a pound  of 
crushed  ice  and  two  ounces  of  old  whiskey.  A little  shredded  pineapple  im- 
proves this  recipe  greatly. 

16.  Milk  Punch. — Put  the  thin  rind  of  half  a lemon  into  a quart  of 
good  milk  in  a double  boiler  and  let  it  come  to  a boil.  Beat  together  the 
yolks  of  2 eggs  and  4 ounces  of  sugar.  Take  the  lemon  rind  from  the  milk, 
add  the  sugar  and  egg,  also  8 tablespoonfuls  of  rum  and  4 tablespoonfuls 
of  whiskey.  Whisk  until  the  mixture  froths,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  again. 

17.  Tom  and  Jerry. — Beat  4 eggs  until  they  are  very  light.  Into  each 
glass  put  3 tablespoonfuls  of  the  egg,  3 tablespbonfuls  of  whiskey  and  2 tea- 
spoonfuls of  sugar;  add  a pinch  of  ground  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice  and 
mix  well.  Fill  the  glasses  up  with  boiling  water  and  serve  as  soon  as  cool 
enough  to  drink. 

18.  Grape  Juice. — Cover  8 quarts  of  picked  grapes  with  2 quarts  of 
water  and  bring  to  a boil;  strain  same  as  jelly,  then  add  2 pounds  sugar; 
let  boil  8 or  10  minutes,  then  seal. 

19.  Raspberry  Vinegar. — Pour  1 quart  of  wine  vinegar  over  2 quarts 
of  red  raspberries  and  let  stand  over  night;  strain  through  jelly  bag  on  2 
quarts  of  fresh  berries.  Next  morning  repeat  this,  making  in  all  6 quarts  of 
berries  and  1 quart  of  wine  vinegar.  Then  to  each  pint  of  liquid  add  % 
pound  of  sugar  and  boil  for  20  minutes.  Bottle  when  cold.  Proportion  for 
beverage,  2 tablespoonfuls  to  1 glass  of  water. 

20.  Blackberry  Wine. — First  measure  the  berries  and  bruise  them ; add 
1 quart  of  boiling  water  to  each  gallon;  let  the  mixture  stand  24  hours, 
stirring  occasionally ; then  strain  off  the  liquor  and  put  into  a cask ; to  every 
gallon  add  2 pounds  of  sugar;  cork  tight  and  let  stand  till  the  next  October, 
when  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  It  may  be  bottled  if  desired. 


184 


TITK  PEOPr.E’S  HOME  RPXIPE  BOOK. 


21.  Christmas  Temperance  Punch. — To  4 pounds  of  sugar  and  2 quarts 
of  water  add  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  4 lemons  and  G oranges.  Stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  then  boil  for  10  minutes.  Strain,  and  when  cool 
add  the  juice  of  the  oranges  and  lemons  and  two  tart  baked  apples  which 
have  been  passed  through  a sieve.  When  wanted,  put  a small  piece  of  ice 
in  the  punch  bowl,  pour  over  the  syrup,  add  a pint  each  of  grape  juice  and 
ginger  ale,  and  enough  effervescing  water  to  make  it  palatable. 

22.  Farmer’s  Soda. — Strain  the  juice  of  a lemon  and  put  into  a medium 
sized  tumbler;  after  adding  a tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  fill  the  tumblei 
% full  of  cold  water;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add  a teaspoonful 
of  soda,  stir  and  drink  while  effervescing. 

23.  Welsh  Nectar. — To  a gallon  of  water  add  2 pounds  of  loaf  sugar  and 
the  grated  rind  of  3 lemons ; boil  for  10  minutes  and  when  cold,  strain.  Put 
into  bottles  each  containing  24  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  fine.  Cork  and 
set  in  a cool  place,  shaking  every  day  for  three  or  four  days.  This  will  keep 
for  a week  or  two  if  well  corked  and  in  a cool  place. 

24.  Grape  Granito. — To  a pint  of  water  add  a pound  of  sugar  and  boil 
for  5 minutes.  When  taken  from  the  stove  add  the  juice  of  1 orange  and 
1 lemon.  Add  a pint  bottle  of  grape  juice  when  it  is  cool  and  chill  with  ice. 

25.  Cherry  Shrub. — Take  a quart  of  very  ripe  stoned  cherries  and 
mash  through  a colander ; add  these  to  a quart  of  water  and  a pound  of  sugar 
which  have  been  boiled  for  5 minutes;  also  add  the  juice  of  a lemon;  strain 
and  set  aside  until  cold.  Partly  freeze  or  serve  with  shaved  ice. 

26.  Various  Fruit  Waters. — Nearly  all  kinds  of  fruit  waters  are  made 
after  the  same  recipe.  Mash  the  fruit  and  add  enough  water  and  sugar  to 
make  of  the  right  flavor  and  consistency.  For  instance,  to  make  currant 
water  mash  a pound  of  ripe  currants  and  add  % pound  of  raspberries  if  you 
have  them;  strain  the  juice  through  a sieve  and  add  a pound  of  granulated 
sugar  and  set  aside.  When  ready  to  serve  add  enough  water  to  make  it 
palatable. 

27.  Cottage  Beer. — Put  a peck  of  good  wheat  bran  and  3 handfuls  of 
hops  into  10  gallons  of  water  and  boil  together  until  the  bran  and  hops 
sink  tc  the  bottom.  Then  strain  it  through  a thin  cloth  into  a cooler  and 
add  2 quarts  of  molasses  when  it  is  about  lukewarm.  As  soon  as  the  mo- 
lasses is  dissolved,  pour  the  mixture  into  a ten-gallon  cask  and  add  2 table- 
spoonfuls of  yeast.  When  fermentation  is  over  with,  cork  up  the  cask  and  it 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  four  or  five  days. 

28.  Ginger  Beer. — Add  6 ounces  of  bruised  ginger  to  3 quarts  of  water 
and  boil  for  30  minutes ; add  5 pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  W pound  of  honey,  a gill 
of  lemon  juice  and  17  quarts  more  of  water;  strain  through  a cloth  and  when 
it  is  cold  add  2 drachms  of  essence  of  lemon  and  the  whole  of  an  egg.  It 
may  be  bottled  after  it  has  stood  for  three  or  four  days. 

29.  Spruce  Beer. — Add  2 ounces  of  hops  to  % gallon  of  water,  boil  for 
30  minutes  and  strain ; add  8 gallons  of  warm  water,  1 gallon  of  molasses 
and  4 ounces  of  essence  of  spruce  dissolved  in  1 pint  of  water;  put  it  in  a 
clean  cask,  shake  all  well  together  and  add  % pint  of  yeast ; let  stand  and 
work  for  six  or  seven  days,  or  less  if  the  weather  is  warm.  When  drawn 
off,  add  1 teaspoonful  of  molasses  to  each  bottle. 


CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND  JELLY  MAKING. 


185 


CANNING,  PRESERVING,  AND  JELLY 

'MAKING. 

“It  is  the  bounty  of  nature  that  we  live; 

But  a philosophy  that  we  live  well.” 

' — Seneca. 


Canning  Table. 


Kind  of  Fruit. 

Apricots  ,*  • • • 

Apples,  Crab  *. . . . 

Apples,  Sour  

Blackberries  

Cherries  

Currants  

Gooseberries  

Grapes,  Wild  

Huckleberries  

Peaches,  in  halves  

Peaches,  whole  

Plums  

Pineapple  ^ 

Pears,  Bartlet,  in  halves 
Pears,  small,  sour,  whole 

Quinces  

Rhubarb  

Raspberries  

Strawberries  

Tomatoes  


Time  for 
Boiling 
Fruit, 
Minutes. 

. 10 
. 25 

. 10 
6 

5 

6 
8 

. 10 

5 
8 

. 15 

. 10 
. 15 

. 20 
. 30 

. 30 

. 10 

6 
8 

. 30 


Quantity 
of  Sugar 
Per  Quart, 
Ounces. 

8 

6 to  8 
6 

5 to  6 

6 

8 

8 

8 

4 

4 

4 

4 to  8 
4 to  6 
4 to  6 
8 

8 to  10 
8 to  10 
4 

6 to  8 

0 


Remember  that  one  level  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  weighs  about  eight 
ounces. 


CANNED  FRUITS. 

(All  Kinds.) 

When  canning  fruit  see  that  the  cans  and  elastics  are  perfect  and  that  the 
tops  fit  properly.  Put  the  cans  and  covers  into  a kettle  of  water  and  bring 
slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Dipping  the  elastics  into  the  boiling  water  will 
be  sufficient  to  sterilize  them.  Set  the  cans  in  a pan  on  the  stove  and  fill 
to  overflowing  with  the  fruit  which  should  be  boiling  hot.  Put  the  top  on 
quickly  and  screw  it  down  tightly.  As  the  fruit  cools  the  tops  should  be 
screwed  down  again  and  again  to  keep  tight.  It  is  best  to  use  glass  cans. 
To  test  whether  they  are  air  tight  turn  them  upside  down  as  soon  as  they 
are  filled.  The  juice  will  ooze  out  if  they  are  not  air  tight.  Each  can  should 
be  wrapped  with  paper  to  exclude  the  light  and  then  set  in  a dark  place  that 
is  cool  but  dry.  The  cans  should  be  examined  two  or  three  days  after  filling, 
and  if  syrup  leaks  out  from  the  rim  the  fruit  should  be  recooked  and  used 
for  jam  or  jelly. 


1S6 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


PRESERVES. 

(All  Kinds.) 

Preserves  must  be  made  with  the  greatest  care.  As  soon  as  pared, 
peaches,  pears,  apples  and  quinces  should  be  placed  in  cold  water  to  keep 
them  from  turning  dark.  Many  fruits,  such  as  pears,  quinces,  citrons,  water- 
melon rinds,  cherries,  currants,  etc.,  harden  when  put  at  first  into  a thick 
syrup.  To  prevent  this  they  should  be  cooked  first  in  water  or  thin  syrup 
and  the  rest  of  the  sugar  added  later.  Apples,  peaches,  plums,  tomatoes  and 
strawberries  are  likely  to  become  too  soft  in  cooking.  It  is  a good  plan 
to  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  these  fruits  or  to  put  the  sugar  over  them  and 
let  them  stand  several  hours.  Either  method  extracts  the  juice  and  hardens 
the  fruit. 

Preserves  should  boil  gently  to  avoid  burning  and  to  let  the  sugar 
penetrate  the  fruit.  As  a general  rule,  from  three-fourths  to  a pound  of 
either  loaf  or  granulated  sugar  is  used  for  each  pound  of  fruit.  Put  augar 
and  water  over  the  fire  in  a porcelain  kettle.  Beat  lightly  the  white 
of  an  egg  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  add  to  the  syrup  just  be- 
fore it  boils.  As  it  begins  to  boil  the  scum  should  be  carefully  removed. 

CANNING  FRUITS,  MAKING  PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

Simmer  until  the  preserves  are  clear,  then  take  out  each  piece  with  a 
skimmer  and  put  at  once  into  the  jars.  Stew  the  syrup  until  it  ropes  ” 
from  the  spoon,  skimming  off  the  scum  which  arises;  then  pour  the  syrup 
over  the  fruit  in  the  jars  and  seal.  When  preserving  apples  or  peaches  it 
is  an  improvement  to  add  a few  slices  of  lemon  or  orange.  To  keep  pre- 
serves from  sugaring  add  a little  tartaric  when  cooked. 

MARMALADES. 

Marmalades  and  fruit  butters  will  require  less  boiling  and  will  be 
smoother  and  better  flavored  if  the  fruit  is  well  cooked  and  mashed  before 
adding  either  sugar  or  vinegar.  They  should  be  stirred  constantly  with  an 
apple  butter  stirrer. 


JELLIES. 

For  jelly,  select  fruit  that  is  not  too  ripe  as  it  will  jelly  better  and  have 
a better  flavor.  It  should  be  heated  as  the  juice  can  then  be  better  extracted. 
Jelly  should  be  strained  twice  and  will  be  much  lighter  if  allowed  to  hang  and 
drip  over  night.  Heat  the  juice,  then  add  the  sugar  which  should  first  be 
heated  in  the  oven.  Jelly  should  be  boiled  rapidly  in  a pan  with  a large  bottom. 
It  should  not  stop  boiling  till  done,  which  usually  requires  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  If  a little  gelatine  be  added  it  will  not  need  to  be  cooked  so  long 
and  will  be  of  a lighter  color.  After  the  glasses  are  filled  they  should  be  set 
in  the  sun  till  cold,  then  a piece  of  writing  paper  should  be  placed  directly 
on  the  jelly  and  another  piece  fastened  over  the  glass  with  a rubber  band. 
Moulding  may  be  prevented  by  putting  a teaspoonful  of  sugar  on  top  of. 
the  jelly  in  the  glass. 

1.  Grape  Marmalade. — Two  pounds  seeded  raisins,  3 cups  granulated 
sugar,  1 pound  English  walnut  meats ; remove  seeds  and  skins  of  grapes ; 
cook  20  minutes* 


CANNING,  PRESERVING  ANEi  JELLY  MAKING. 


187 


2.  Quince  Honey. — One  quart  of  quinces  grated  fine,  1 quart  of  sugar, 
1 pint  of  water.  Boil  about  20  minutes  after  it  comes  to  a boil. 

3.  Orange  Marmalade. — This  is  much  more  satisfactory  if  made  in  small 
quantities.  Take  3 oranges  and  1 lemon ; slice  very  thin,  not  using  the  ends. 
Place  in  a bowl  and  pour  over  it ‘3  pints  of  cold  water;  let  stand  for  24  hours. 
Then  boil  in  a porcelain  kettle  until  very  tender  and  let  stand  for  another 
24  hours.  Then  to  every  cup  of  fruit  and  liquid  add  a cup  of  sugar  and  boil 
briskly  for  about  an  hour.  Try,  and  the  minute  it  jellies  remove  from  the 
fire  and  fill  hot  dry  glasses.  Let  stand  two  days  before  sealing. 

4.  Quince  Honey. — Grate  one  large  quince,  add  2 cups  of  sugar  and 
% cup  of  water.  Boil  20  minutes. 

5.  Cooking  Apricots. — Boil  apricots  for  5 minutes  in  water  to  which 
% teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  added  and  you  will  be  surprised  at  the  small 
amount  of  sugar  it  takes  to  sweeten  them  when  cooking. 

6.  Canned  Corn. — Add  1 cup  of  salt  to  1 gallon  of  corn  cut  ofif  the 
ears;  mix  well  together  and  pack  in  jars  and  steam  3 hours.  Screw  the  lids 
on  the  Mason  jars  tight  before  steaming. 

7.  Canned  Elderberries  (Excellent). — Add  2%  pounds  of  sugar  and  1 
pint  of  pure  cider  vinegar  to  7 pounds  of  elderberries ; boil  1 hour.  Then 
seal  in  jars.  This  will  fill  four  jars  and  is  excellent  for  pies. 

8.  Canned  Beans. — Pack  the  beans  in  tight  jars  after  stringing  and 
breaking  in  small  pieces.  Put  a teaspoonful  of  salt  on  the  tops,  arid  cover 
them  with  cold  water.  Seal  jars  tight.  Place  the  jars  in  a boiler  of  cold 
water  and  let  boil  from  3 to  4 hours. 

9.  Canned  Rhubarb. — Peel  the  rhubarb  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  pack 
in  jars,  fill  with  cold  water,  seal  tight ; when  ready  to  use  will  not  need  as  much 
sugar  as  when  fresh. 

10.  To  Cook  Cranberries. — To  1 quart  of  cranberries  add  1 teacup  of 
water  and  put  them  over  the  fire.  After  cooking  10  minutes,  add  2 heaping 
cups  of  sugar,  and  cook  10  minutes  longer,  stirring  frequently.  Pour  them 
into  a bowl  or  mold  and  when  cold  they  may  be  removed  as  a jelly.  If  pre- 
ferred, they  may  be  strained  through  a sieve  before  putting  in  sugar. 

11.  Preserved  Cherries. — Use  rich,  red  cherries ; stone  and  weigh  them, 
adding  % pound  of  loaf  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit.  Let  the  fruit,  stoned 
and  sweetened,  stand  in  a stone  jar  over  night;  in  the  morning  put  them  in 
the  preserving  kettle  and  cook  until  clear.  Put  in  tumblers ; cover  the  tops, 
when  cool,  with  melted  paraffine  before  putting  on  covers. 

12.  Strawberry  Preserves. — Take  equal  parts  by  weight  of  sugar  and 
fruit;  the  berries  should  be  solid,  used  as  soon  as  ready  and  not  sugared 
down.  Use  just  enough  water  to  keep  them  from  sticking  and  put  berries, 
sugar  and  water  all  on  at  the  same  time  and  cook  for  20  minutes.  Then 
spread  on  flat  dishes  and  set  in  sun  for  3 or  4 days  and  then  put  in  glass  jars. 
They  will  need  no  more  heating  or  cooking.  These  are  considered  fine. 

13.  Pear  Chips. — Ten  pounds  of  pears  sliced  thin,  7 pounds  of  sugar, 
4 lemons  boiled  soft;  press  out  the  juice  and  pulp;  chop  the  peel  very  fine. 
Boil  the  sugar  and  fruit  together  until  soft;  then  add  the  lemon,  % pound 
green  ginger  root  scraped  and  cut  into  bits.  Let  all  boil  slowly  until  quite 
thick.  Can  be  put  in  jelly  glasses  and  sealed  with  paper.  Very  fine. 

14.  Gooseberry  Conserves. — Six  quarts  green  gooseberries,  5 pounds 
granulated  sugar,  2 pounds  seedless  raisins,  5 oranges.  Remove  the  stems  from 


188 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


the  berries,  and  chop  the  raisins  rather  coarsely.  Cut  the  oranges  into  halves 
and  take  out  the  juice  and  pulp,  removing  the  seeds;  cook  peel  of  tliree  of 
them  soft  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  changing  water  once  or  twice; 
drain;  remove  the  white  part  from  the  peel  by  scraping  with  a spoon.  Then 
cut  into  narrow  strips;  put  sugar,  berries,  orange  peel,  juice  and  rind  together 
in  a kettle  and  heat  slowly  until  the  syrup  is  thick. 

15.  Quince  Honey. — Take  four  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and  1 pint 
of  water  and  boil  for  20  minutes.  Constantly  skim  syrup  until  clear;  grate 
V/j  quince  very  fine ; then  pour  into  the  syrup  and  let  boil  10  minutes. 

16.  Orange  Marmalade. — Cut  the  oranges  in  halves ; take  out  the  pulp 
with  a spoon;  take  1 lemon  to  5 oranges,  preparing  the  same  way.  Then 
cut  the  shell  of  the  oranges  in  two,  scrape  out  the  white  lining  and  put  the 
skins  on  to  boil;  weigh  the  pulp,  take  half  as  much  sugar  and  simmer  to- 
gether 15  minutes.  When  the  skins  are  transparent  and  tender,  take  up 
and,  putting  several  pieces  together,  cut  it  quickly  into  the  narrowest  pos- 
sible strips.  Mix  these  with  pulp  and  sugar;  cook  until  very  thick.  Put  in 
glasses  and  when  cold,  seal. 

17.  Lemon  Marmalade. — Take  6 lemons  and  slice  them  thin;  remove 
only  the  seeds;  add  3 pints  of  cold  water  to  each  pound  of  sliced  fruit;  let 
this  stand  for  24  hours,  then  boil  until  the  chips  are  tender;  pour  into  an 
earthen  bowl  and  let  stand  until  next  day.  Then  weigh  and,  to  every 
pound  of  pulp,  add  1%  pounds  of  sugar;  boil  until  the  syrup  jellies  and  the 
chips  are  transparent. 

18.  Lemon  Butter. — Juice  and  grated  rind  of  2 lemons,  2 cups  of  sugar,  2 
eggs,  small  lump  of  butter ; boil  10  minutes  in  a double  boiler. 

19.  Canned  Elderberries. — Add  4 pints  of  sugar  and  3 pints  of  best  cider 
vinegar  to  each  peck  of  cleaned  elderberries.  Cook  until  well  done  and  can. 

20.  Tomato  Preserves. — Scald  and  peel  carefully  some  small  tomatoes 
(yellow  preferred),  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night; 
pour  off  all  the  juice  and  boil  until  it  is  a thick  syrup;  add  tomatoes  and 
boil  until  transparent.  A piece  of  ginger  root  or  1 lemon,  sliced  thin,  to 
a pound  of  fruit  is  a good  addition.  Excellent. 

21.  Pieplant  Jelly. — Cut  pieplant  into  small  pieces,  without  peeling; 
cover  with  water;  boil  to  a pulp;  then  strain  through  a flannel  bag.  Bring 
the  juice  to  a boil  and  for  each  pint  add  a pint  of  sugar;  boil  for  about  20 
minutes  or  until  it  will  jell. 

22.  Orange  Marmalade. — One  dozen  navel  oranges  and  2 lemons;  cut 
in  small  pieces,  the  smaller  the  better.  Cover  with  3 quarts  of  water  and  let 
stand  24  hours.  Then  measure  the  juice  and  allow  1 pound  of  sugar  to  1 
quart  of  juice  and  boil  until  tender  or'  transparent. 

23.  Canned  Apple  Sauce.— Put  apple  sauce  into  hot  jars  and  seal  at 
once  and  it  may  be  kept  either  for  table  use  or  for  pies  till  apples  are  out  of 
the  market. 

24.  Canned  Pineapple. — Pare  the  pineapples  and  carefully  cut  out  all 
the  eyes;  chop  them  fine  and  weigh;  add  the  same  weight  of  sugar;  put  into 
a large  crock,  mix  thoroughly  and  let  stand  24  hours;  fill  the  cans  full  and 
seal  tight.  In  about  two  weeks  look  them  over  to  see  that  none  are  spoil- 
ing. If  they  are,  heat  them  again  and  refill  cans. 


ft 


'<1 


i 


A 


• » ^ 


Z 


£^:'- 


f 


i'  . .j ; ■ ■'  ■_ 


*<•« 


A 


< 


\ 


•A 


PICKLING. 


189 


PICKLING. 


Including  Recipes  for  all  Kinds  of  Pickles,  Catsup,  Chow  Chow,  Chili  Sauce, 

Chowder,  Piccalilli,  Etc. 


“ Peter  Piper  picked  a peck  of  pickled  peppers.^’ 

It  is  always  best  to  use  cider  vinegar  in  making  pickles  as  other  kinds 
eat  the  pickles  or  make  them  soft.  Vinegar  which  is  too  strong  should  be 
diluted  with  water.  The  vinegar  should  never  be  boiled  but  should  be  poured 
on  the  pickles  hot  as  it  comes  to  the  first  scald.  If  pickles  are  put  into  brine 
the  brine  should  be  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg.  A heaping  pint  of  coarse 
salt  should  be  used  to  each  gallon  of  water.  Never  put  pickles  into  anything 
that  has  previously  held  any  kind  of  grease  and  never  let  them  freeze.  A 
good  way  is  to  put  pickles  in  bottles  and  seal  while  hot.  Put  a slice  or  two 
of  horseradish  into  the  jar  with  pickles.  It  will  soon  sink  to  the  bottom, 
taking  the  scum  with  it  and  leaving  the  vinegar  clear. 

1.  Beet  Pickles. — One  quart  of  beets  chopped  fine,  1 quart  of  cabbage, 

1 cup  sugar,  1 teacup  grated  horseradish,  1 teaspoonful  salt,  1 teaspoonful 
pepper.  Mix  all  together  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar ; can  in  air  tight  cans 
and  keep  in  dark  place. 

2.  Chopped  Pickles. — Two  large  heads  of  cabbage,  1 peck  of  green  to- 
matoes, 3 green  peppers,  1 small  cup  salt ; chop,  mix,  let  stand  over  night 
and  drain.  Cover  with  cider  vinegar.  Boil  until  soft;  drain  again  and  mix 
with  1 tablespoonful  mustard,  1 tablespoonful  cloves,  2 pounds  of  raisins, 

2 pounds  of  sugar,  Vo  cup  grated  horseradish,  3 chopped  onions,  celery  and 
salt  to  taste.  Hot  vinegar  enough  to  make  moist.  Can  rather  dry. 

Chow  Chow. — Two  heads  of  cabbage,  % peck  green  tomatoes,  1 large 
ripe  cucumber,  2 large  onions,  9 large,  red  sweet  peppers,  10  cents  worth  of 
white  mustard  seed,  10  cents  worth  of  black  mustard  seed,  2 ounces  celery 
seed,  Vo  pint  salt,  1 coffee  cup  grated  horseradish.  Mix  cabbage,  tomatoes 
a I.-  salt ; let  stand  4 hours  in  colander  to  drain ; drain  onions  and  cucumbers ; 
scald  11/2  gallons  of  vinegar  and  3 pounds  brown  sugar  and  pour  over  the 
mixture ; heat  thoroughly.  This  makes  10  quarts. 

4.  Sliced  Cucumbers. — Peel  and  slice  a gallon  of  cucumbers  and  soak 
over  nigh,  in  weak  salt  water.  Drain  and  put  them  in  weak  vinegar  on  the 
stove  and  let  them  get  hot ; drain  and  pack  them  in  glass  jars.  Take  one  quart 
of  vinegar,  a few  slices  of  onions,  sugar  and  spices  to  taste ; let  it  come  to 
a boil.  Then,  while  hot,  pour  this  over  the  cucumbers  and  seal. 

5.  Dill  Pickles. — Fill  a stone  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  grape  leaves, 
fresh  cucumbers,  dill  and  salt.  Cover  with  water  and  an  inverted  plate; 
place  a brick  on  the  plate  to  hold  all  under  water.  The  cucumbers  will 
be  ready  to  use  in  about  two  weeks. 

6.  Cucumber  Pickles. — Wash  some  cucumbers  from  1 to  2 inches  long; 
let  them  stand  in  moderately  strong  brine  for  12  hours;  remove  from  brine 
and  place  in  a porcelain  kettle;  cover  them  with  weak  vinegar  and  let  come 
to  a boil.  Pack  in  glass  cans.  In  another  vessel  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
some  strong  cider  vinegar  with  mixed  spices  and  sugar,  allowing  % cup 
of  sugar  to  1 quart  can  of. pickles.  Fill  up  can  with  hot  spiced  vinegar  and 
seal  at  once. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


190 

' 7.  Green  Tomato  Pickles. — Chop  fine  8 pounds  of  green  tomatoes; 
add  4 pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  boil  3 hours;  add  1 quart  vinegar,  1 tea- 
spoonful each  of  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  boil  15  minutes. 

8.  Tomato  Higdom. — Mix  1%  cups  of  salt  with  1 bushel  of  green  to- 
matoes chopped  fine  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  after 
pressing  hard  to  extract  all  juice,  add  1 cup  mustard,  3 pounds  sugar,  12 
red  peppers  chopped  fine,  V2  cup  celery  seed.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pack  in 
ja/s.  Over  this  pour  half  a gallon  of  hot  vinegar. 

9.  Mustard  Pickles. — One  quart  large  cucumbers,  cut  in  pieces ; 1 quart 
small  cucumbers,  1 quart  large  tomatoes,  3 heads  cauliflower,  2 quarts  very 
small  onions,  6 red  and  green  peppers  cut  in  strips.  Put  all  in  separate  dishes 
of  salt  and  water  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  and  cook 
in  separate  dishes  of  clear  water  until  nearly  tender.  Then  put  together 
and  boil  a short  time  in  the  following  paste : One  ounce  pulverized  tumeric 
seed,  1/2  pound  ground  mustard,  2 cups  of  flour,  7 cups  sugar,  1 gallon 
vinegar. 

10.  Pickled  Peppers. — Cut  the  stems  and  rind  from  the  peppers.  Then 
put  into  strong  hot  brine,  repeating  this  for  three  mornings,  and  then  drain 
off  and  cover  with  hot  vinegar.  When  wanted,  take  out  of  brine  and  stuff 
with  creamed  sweetbreads  and  mushrooms  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 
A very  pretty  and  appetizing  luncheon  dish. 

11.  Sweet  Pickled  Peaches. — Wash  clean  several  pounds  of  peaches  that 
are  not  too  ripe ; it  is  best  to  use  clings  and  do  not  peel  them.  Put  into  a porce- 
lain kettle  3 pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1 pint  of  strong  cider  vinegar  and  a 
small  handful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves  and  bring  to  a boil.  Put  in  as 
many  peaches  as  the  liquor  will  cover ; cook  until  moderately  soft  and  put  into 
jars.  Cook  all  alike  and  pour  liquor  over  them. 

' 12.  Sweet  Pickled  Prunes. — Four  pounds  of  prunes,  1 pint  of  vinegar, 
2 pounds  of  sugar,  1 ounce  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  1/4  ounce  of 
ginger.  Boil  the  vinegar,  spices  and  sugar  together  10  minutes ; after  soak- 
ing the  prunes  for  2 or  3 hours  and  steaming  them  10  or  15  minutes,  pour  the 
hot  vinegar  over  them  and  boil  all  together  until  the  prunes  are  tender. 
These  will  be  found  excellent. 

13.  Gooseberry  Catsup. — To  1 pound  of  gooseberries  use  % pound  of 
sugar,  spices  to  taste ; 1 pint  of  vinegar  to  10  pounds  of  fruit.  Boil  2 hours. 

14.  Celery  Sauce. — Two  stalks  (arrow-root)  celery,  15  large  ripe  to- 
matoes, 2 red  peppers,  2 onions,  IV2  cups  vinegar,  2 spoonfuls  salt,  8 table- 
spoonfuls sugar;  chop  all  fine  and  boil  II/2  hours. 

15.  Tomato  Sauce. — Melt  2 tablespoonfuls  butter;  add  2 tablespoonfuls 
flour  and  1 pint  strained  tomatoes;  also  a ’small  bay  leaf,  slice  of  onion,  1 tea- 
spoonful salt,  a dash  of  pepper,  2 cloves  and  a bit  of  mace;  simmer  15  min- 
utes ; strain  and  serve. 

16.  English  Chow  Chow. — One  quart  of  cabbage,  1 quart  of  green  to- 
m.atoes,  1 quart  of  onions,  1 quart  of  cucumbers  (pickle),  6 green  peppers. 
Chop  fine,  put  in  weak  salt  water  and  scald  until  tender;  strain  and  while 
hot  pour  paste,  also  hot,  over  the  mixture. 

Paste. — One  cup  of  sugar,  1 cup  of  flour,  1 tablespoonful  each  of  tumeric 
and  celery  seed,  6 tablespoonfuls  of  ground  mustard,  2 quarts  of  pure  cider 
vinegar.  This  makes  one  gallon. 

17.  Tomato  Ketchup. — Twelve  ripe  tomatoes,  4 green  peppers,  2 large 
onions,  2 tablespoon fuls  salt,  4 cups  vinegar,  2 tablespoonfuls  ginger,  2 tabic- 


191 


spoonfuls  brown  and  white  sugar,  1 tablespoonful  mustard,  1 tablespoonful 
cinnamon;  boil  all  together  3 hours  or  until  thick  enough. 

18.  Damson  Plum  Catsup.— Put  2 quarts  of  ripe  damson  plums  in  a 
stone  jar  and  cook  them  with  good  vinegar ; let  them  stand  for  3 or  4 days,  then 
with  the  hands  mash  them  up  and  put  them  through  a sieve;  have  your 
kettle  ready  and  to  a pint  of  liquid  add  one  pound  of  brown  sugar  and  sea- 
son to  taste  with  allspice  and  cinnamon,  beaten  fine;  let  it  boil  1/2  hour;  skim 
it  while  boiling.  When  cold,  bottle  and  cork. 

19.  Chowder  (Very  Fine). — One  peck  green  tomatoes,  1 dozen  sweet 
peppers,  1 dozen  onions,  all  chopped  fine ; sprinkle  over  1 quart  salt,  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  of¥  and  cook  one  hour  in  1 quart  vinegar ; 
drain  again.  Mix  with  2 quarts  vinegar,  1 bowl  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  each 
ground  cinnamon,  celery  seed,  ground  mustard  (or  seed),  and  boil  15  minutes. 
If  liked,  one  may  add  allspice,  cloves  and  1 pint  grated  horseradish. 

20.  Corn  Sauce.— Three  dozen  corn,  % dozen  red  peppers,  % dozen 
green  peppers,  1 cup  salt,  3 pints  cider  vinegar,  II/2  pints  sugar,  1 large  or 
2 small  heads  of  cabbage,  2 tablespoonfuls  tumeric  powder.  Slice  corn  from 
cob  without  boiling.  Take  seeds  from  peppers  and  chop  fine.  Slice  cab- 
ba°^e  fine.  Mix  all  together  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Seal  in  glass  jars. 

21.  Pickled  Cabbage.— One  gallon  of  finely  cut  cabbage,  2 green  pep- 
pers cut  fine,  one  pound  sugar,  IV2  cups  mustard  seed,  IV2  spoonfuls  of  salt, 
2 tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed,  1 cup  grated  horseradish,  a small  piece  of 
alum.  Pack  in  crock  and  cover  with  heavy  muslin.  Then  cover  with  old 
cider  vinegar.  No  cooking  in  this. 

Stuffed  Peppers.— Soak  3 dozen  peppers  in  salt  water  over  night, 
Othen  make  the  filling.  Take  one  head  of  cabbage  and  2 bunches  of  celery  and 
chop  both  fine ; spices  to  taste,  also  some  of  the  seeds  of  peppers ; 1 quart 
of  water,  2 quarts  of  vinegar,  1 pint  of  sugar;  boil  for  30  minutes.  Pour 
over  peppers  while  hot. 

23. ^  Bordeaux  Sauce.— One  gallon  green  tomatoes,  2 gallons  chopped 
cabbage,  1 dozen  onions,  1%  pounds  brown  .sugar,  salt  to  taste,  1 dozen 
green  and  red  peppers,  celery  seed  and  one  bunch  celery,  allspice  to  taste, 
cloves,  tumeric  powder,  mustard  seed  or  3 tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard ; 

boil  20  minutes.  , , . , . 

24.  Piccalilli. — One  gallon  green  tomatoes  sliced,  6 good  sized  onions 
sliced,  1 pint  granulated  sugar,  1 quart  pure  cider  vinegar,  1 tablespoonful 
salt,  2 tablespoonfuls  mixed  spices.  Mix  all  together  and  stew  until  tender, 
stirring  continually;  put  in  fruit  jars  and  seal. 

25.  Euchered  Crab  Apples.— Cook  nice  crab  apples  till  tender;  drain; 
pack  in  jars  with  a few  whole  cloves  and  pieces  of  cinnamon  bark  in  each 
jar.  Make  a syrup  of  the  proportion  of  1 quart  of  good  vinegar  to  3 pints  of 
sugar ; boil  the  syrup  5 minutes ; skim,  then  pour  over  fruit  and  seal.  These 
are  excellent. 

26.  Small  Cucumber  Pickles.— Soak  over  night  50  cucumbers  in  warm 
salt  water  containing  a piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a hazelnut.  Then  drain 
off  the  water  and  wipe  each  pickle  dry.  Place  in  a jar.  Take  V2  pint  of  water 
and  1 quart  of  cider  vinegar  and  mix  spices  with  whole  horseradish 
root ; let  come  to  a boil,  then  pour  over  the  pickles  and  seal. 

27.  Spanish  Pickle.— One  gallon  of  cabbage,  1 gallon  of  ripe^  cucum- 
bers chopped  fine,  7 pods  of  green  pepper,  1 pint  of  salt;  drain  all  together 
24  hours.  Then  mix  1 gallon  of  vinegar,  1 ounce  of  white  mustard  seed,  1 


102 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


ounce  of  black  pepper,  horseradish  and  celery  seed  to  taste,  1 ounce  of 
tumeric  and  3 pounds  of  brown  sugar;  then  add  to  this  cucumbers,  etc.  and 
cook  one  hour. 

28.  “ Dandy  ” Home-Made  Pickles. — Make  a brine  of  salt  and  water 
strong  enough  to  float  pickles.  Leave  the  pickles  in  this  over  night;  drain 
in  morning.  Make  kettle  of  water  slightly  sour  and  add  lump  of  alum  size  of 
hickory  nut ; put  pickles  in  this  till  heated  through  but  not  cooked ; then  wipe 
on  dry  cloths  and  pack  in  quart  jars;  add  to  each  jar  I/2  teaspoonful  whole 
mustard,  2 teaspoonfuls  celery  seed,  a pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  2 tea- 
spoonfuls sugar,  2 parts  vinegar  to  1 part  water;  heat,  fill  jars  and  seal. 

29.  Spiced  Peaches. — Eight  pounds  of  peaches,  4 pounds  sugar,  1 ounce 
cloves,  1 ounce  cinnamon,  % ounce  mace,  one  pint  vinegar;  boil  the  juice 
three  times;  in  the  third,  boil  the  fruit  until  soft;  if  there  is  too  much 
juice  to  cover  them,  boil  down  until  just  enough. 

30.  Canned  Beets. — Cook  the  beets  until  tender,  slice  and  pack  in 
jars,  put  sugar  and  salt  to  taste  on  top  and  then  pour  scalding  vinegar  over 
until  jars  are  filled.  Seal  tight. 

31.  Canned  Cucumbers. — Slice  the  desired  number  of  peeled  cucum- 
bers ; sprinkle  a little  salt  over  them ; let  stand  for  30  minutes,  then  drain  ; 
do  not  squeeze;  pack  them  in  jars;  pour  cold  vinegar  over  them  and  seal 
tight.  When  ready  to  use,  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  onions. 

32.  String  Bean  Pickles. — Wax  beans  are  best  for  these  pickles.  Cut 
off  the  ends,  string  and  steam  over  boiling  salt  water  until  they  are  easily 
pierced  with  a fork  ; drain  on  a cloth  and  when  cold  pack  in  a jar,  putting 
a little  red  pepper  between  the  layers.  Make  a spiced  vinegar  by  adding 

1 cup  of  sugar  and  a teaspoonful  each  of  white  mustard  and  celery  seed  to 
each  pint  of  vinegar.  When  hot  pour  this  over  the  beans,  weight  and  let 
stand  for  3 or  4 days  in  a cool  place.  Then  drain,  reheat  the  vinegar,  cover 
the  beans  with  horseradish  leaves,  pour  on  the  hot  vinegar  or  syrup,  and 
let  stand  a week  before  using.  These  are  fine. 

33.  Mixed  Pickles. — Two  quarts  cucumbers,  1 quart  onions,  1 quart 
green  tomatoes,  3 green  peppers,  1 large  cauliflower;  cut  all  in  pieces  and 
soak  over  night  in  salt  and  water.  In  the  morning  scald  in  the  same  brine 
and  then  make  a dressing  of  2 quarts  vinegar,  1%  cups  sugar,  1 cup  flour 
moistened  with  vinegar,  3 tablespoonfuls  prepared  mustard,  2 tablespoon- 
fuls tumeric  dissolved.  Pour  off  the  brine  and  put  on  the  dressing  and  bring 
to  a boil,  then  can  and  seal.  Very  fine. 

34.  Sour  Cucumber  Pickles. — One  gallon  vinegar,  2 ounces  white  ginger 
root,  1/2  pound  ground  mustard,  2 ounces  white  mustard  seed,  1 pound  small 
onions,  pound  salt,  2 ounces  whole  black  pepper,  2 ounces  whole  cloves, 

2 ounces  ground  cinnamon.  Put  the  salt  and  onions  in  3 quarts  of  the 
vinegar,  cold ; tie  the  spices  in  a thin  muslin  bag  and  boil  a few  minutes  in 
the  remaining  quart  of  vinegar ; when  cold,  put  all  together ; wash  the  cu- 
cumbers and  drop  them  into  this  liquor  as  soon  after  gathering  as  possible. 

35.  Chili  Sauce. — Two  large  ripe  tomatoes,  3 onions  chopped  fine,  3 
green  peppers  chopped  fine ; cook  togethej  until  soft  and  put  through  the 
colander;  then  add  3 tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  1 cup  sugar,  3 teaspoonfuls  ground 
cinnamon,  2 teaspoonfuls  ground  ginger,  1 teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  2 
cups  good  vinegar;  cook  until  as  thick  as  desired,  then  bottle  and  seal.  Ex- 
cellent. 

3G.  Cold  Catsup. — Peel  and  slice  1 peck  ripe  tomatoes,  sprinkle  lightly 


PICKLING. 


193 


with  salt,  let  stand  2 hours  and  drain  off  the  water ; add  2 horseradish  roots 
grated  or  put  through  the  vegetable  chopper,  % teacup  fine  salt,  % teacup 
white  mustard  seed,  1 teaspoonful  black  pepper,  2 red  peppers  chopped  fine 
without  seeds ; if  liked,  4 ounces  of  coarsely  chopped  celery ; 1 tablespoon 
chop£^  onion,  % cup  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  2 teaspoonfuls 
ground  cinnamon,^ pints  of  vinegar.  Mix  cold.  Tie  a cloth  over  but  do  not 
seal. 

3?'.  Watermelon  Pickles. — Pare  off  the  green  and  the  red  parts  of 
watermelon  rinds,  saving  only  the  white ; cut  in  any  desired  shapes ; place 
in  a jar,  alternating  small  quantities  of  rind  with  a little  salt.  Let  stand  for 
a day  or  two  in  a cool  place,  then  thoroughly  rinse;  put  on  to  boil  with 
equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water  and  add  a level  teaspoonful  of  pulverized 
alum.  Boil  till  you  can  pierce  with  a fork,  then  rinse  again.  For  the  syrup 
use  one  quart  of  vinegar  to  3 pints  of  sugar  and  whole  cloves,  allspice  and 
cinnamon  in  a small  bag.  Boil  down  to  suit  your  taste.  Just  before  taking 
off,  put  the  rinds  in  and  boil  a little  longer.  Can  and  seal. 

38.  Cucumber  Pickles. — Wash  the  cucumbers  and  put  into  glass  cans. 
For  one  quart  can  add  a dessert  spoonful  of  salt  and  fill  with  vinegar.  Can 
freshen  and  put  into  clear  vinegar  when  used. 

39.  Sweet  Pickles,  Pears,  Peaches  and  Apples. — Seven  and  one-half 
pounds  of  fruit,  3^4  pounds  sugar,  1 pint  vinegar,  whole  cloves  and  stick  cin- 
namon as  preferred.  Boil  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  and  add  fruit.  Boil  until 
easily  pierced  with  fork.  Remove  fruit  and  put  into  cans  or  jars.  Boil  down 
the  syrup  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 

40.  Corn  Salad. — Twenty  ears  of  corn,  1 cabbage,  2 green  peppers, 
4 good  sized  onions,  4 cups  vinegar,  2 cups  sugar,  1 teaspoonful  tumeric  pow- 
der, 2 tablespoonfuls  mustard  ; cut  corn  from  ears ; chop  fine  the  cabbage, 
peppers,  and  onions  together  and  cook  slowly  for  a few  minutes.  Can  while 
boiling  hot. 

41.  Mexican  Chili  Sauce. — Stew  long  red  peppers  until  soft  in  sufficient 
water  to  cover.  Scrape  red  pulp  from  inside  of  skin;  reject  skin  and  seeds. 
Make  a dressing  of  flour  with  ham  or  bacon  grease,  hot  water  and  salt ; add 
chili ; serve  with  meat. 

42.  Pickled  String  Beans. — String  the  beans  and  cut  them  into  inch 
lengths.  Let  them  stand  in  strong  brine  8 days,  changing  it  3 times.  Drain 
and  lay  in  clear  cold  water  for  1 day,  then  dry  between  the  folds  of  a towel. 
Pack  in  glass  jars  with  scalding  vinegar  which  has  been  brought  to  a boil 
with  a minced  onion,  a dozen  whole  cloves,  a heaping  tablespoonful  of  mus- 
tard seed  and  4 blades  of  mace.  Screw  on  the  tops  and  do  not  use  for  a month 
or  six  weeks. 

43.  Pickled  Peaches  (that  will  keep). — Four  pounds  of  sugar  and  one 
pint  of  vinegar  to  12  pounds  of  fruit.  Put  sugar  and  vinegar  together  and 
boil,  then  add  the  fruit  and  let  it  come  to  a boil.  Next  day  drain  off  the 
liquor  and  boil  again.  Do  this  3 times  and  your  pickles  are  delicious.  Add 
cinnamon  to  the  liquor  and  stick  2 or  3 cloves  into  each  peach. 

44.  Cucumber  Catsup. — One-half  bushel  full-grown  cucumbers ; peel  and 
chop  them,  sprinkle  with  salt,  put  in  sieve  and  let^ stand  over  night;  add  2 
dozen  onions  cut  up  small,  % pound  white  mustard  seed,  % pound  black  mus- 
tard seed,  2 dozen  black  peppers,  ground.  Mix  well  with  best  cider  vinegar, 
making  it  the  consistency  of  thick  catsup  and  fill  jars,  tying  up  closely.  No 
cooking  required. 

2—13 


1U4 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


45.  Tomato  Catsup. — One  bushel  good  ripe  tomatoes,  gallon  cider 
vinegar,  % pound  allspice,  2 ounces  cloves,  3 tablespoonfuls  black  pepper, 
6 large  onions  or  2 heads  of  garlic,  1 pint  salt,  4 large  red  peppers ; cook  thor- 
oughly and  strain  through  sieve,  then  boil  till  it  is  thick  enough  and  add 
vinegar. 

4G.  Chili  Sauce. — One-half  bushel  tomatoes,  peck  onions,  4 table- 
spoonfuls salt,  2 tablespoonfuls  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  3 table- 
spoonfuls black  pepper,  3 cups  sugar,  1 gallon  vinegar;  chop  onions  fine,  mix 
everything  together  and  boil  constantly  one  hour  and  15  minutes.  Dandy 
good  just  as  it  is. 

^ - 

PRESERVING  MEATS. 

Including  Curing,  Smoking  and  Pickling  Meats;  Making  Corned  Beefj 
Sausage  and  Mince  Meat  and  Preserving  Eggs. 


“ There’s  no  want  of  meats,  sir, 

Portly  and  curious  viands  are  prepared 
To  please  all  kinds  of  appetite.” 

— Massenger. 

1.  Corned  Beef. — For  100  pounds  of  beef  take  7 pounds  of  salt,  1 pound 
of  sugar,  1 ounce  of  saltpeter  and  4 gallons  of  water;  dissolve  the  saltpeter 
in  a little  hot  water  and  add  it  and  the  salt  and  sugar  to  the  water ; scald  the 
crock,  pack  the  beef,  sprinkle  on  a little  salt  and  then  pour  on  the  brine  and 
be  sure  to  keep  well  weighted  so  that  every  particle  is  kept  under  the  brine. 

2.  Dried  Beef. — Brown  salt  like  coffee  and  wFile  hot  roll  each  piece  of 
beef  in  it  thoroughly;  pack  in  a crock  and  let  it  remain  five  days;  take  out, 
wash  well  and  hang  up  to  dry. 

3.  Curing  Hams. — To  each  gallon  of  water  add  1%  pounds  of  salt,  % 
^pound  of  sugar  and  % ounce  of  saltpeter;  dissolve  saltpeter  in  a little  hot 
water  and  mix  all  together;  rub  the  hams  with  salt,  pack  in  a well  scalded 
crock,  pour  on  the  brine  and  be  sure  to  weight  well  and  keep  all  under  brine. 

4.  Curing  Hams. — When  thoroughly  cold  after  killing,  trim  them  nice 
and  smooth ; pack  them  in  salt  and  let  them  remain  five  or  six  weeks,  then 
dip  into  boiling  brine ; rub  the  flesh  side  with  pulverized  black  pepper  as 
long  as  it  will  stick.  Hang  in  dry  place. 

5.  To  Keep  Smoked  Hams. — Rub  the  flesh  part  with  molasses  and 
sprinkle  on  all  the  black  pepper  that  will  stick.  Hang  where  they  will  keep 
dry. 

6.  Pickle  for  Beef  or  Ham. — For  each  hundred  pounds  of  beef  or  ham 
use  9 pounds  of  salt,  4 ounces  of  saltpeter,  2 ounces  of  saleratus  and  2 quarts 
of  molasses ; add  water  to  make  enough  brine  to  cover  meat.  Scald  brine, 
skim  and  let  cool  before  pouring  on  meat. 

7.  To  Preserve  Sausages. — Roll  into  small  thin  cakes  and  fry  until  well 
done;  then  pack  closely  in  jars  and  pour  melted  lard  over  them  till  the  top  is 
covered  an  inch  deep.  Set  in  a cool  place  and  you  will  have  nice  sausage  all 
summer. 

8.  Curing  and  Smoking  Hams. — Hang  the ‘hams  up  for  a week  or  ten 


PRESERVING  MEATS. 


195 


days.  If  kept  perfectly  sweet,  the  longer  they  hang  the  more  tender  they 
will  be.  For  each  good  sized  ham  mix  1 teacup  of  salt,  1 ounce  of  saltpeter, 
and  1 tablespoonful  of  molasses.  Put  the  hams  in  a tub ; heat  the  mixture 
and  rub  well  into  the  hams ; repeat  this  until  the  mixture  is  all  used ; then 
let  them  lie  two  or  three  days.  Then  put  them  for  three  weeks  into  brine 
that  is  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg;  take  from  brine,  soak  in  cold  water  for 
eight  hours  and  hang  up  for  a week  or  longer ; smoke  from  three  jto  five  days 
but  be'  careful  not  to  heat  the  hams.  Apple  tree  wood  and  corn  cobs  are 
good  for  smoking.  Smoke  the  hams  with  the  hock  down.  Tie  the  hams  in 
bags  until  wanted  for  use. 

9.  Sausage. — To  10  pounds  of  chopped  meat  add  4 ounces  of  salt,  1 
ounce  of  pepper,  % ounce  of  powdered  sage  and  % tablespoonful  of  ginger. 
When  cool,  pack  in  pans,  cover  thick  with  lard  and  then  with  paper.  Keep 
in  a dry,  cool  place.  Each  time  after  taking  some  out  for  use,  press  the 
paper  back  again. 

10.  Mock  Sausage. — Soak  some  dry  bread  in  water  and  mix  with  it  the 
same  quantity  of  finely  chopped  cold  meat.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
sage ; make  into  small  cakes  and  fry. 

11.  Head  Cheese. — Take  the  heads,  feet,  tongues  and  other  convenient 
pieces  of  fresh  pork ; remove  the  skin ; boil  until  all  is  tender  and  can  be  easily 
stripped  from  the  bones.  Then  chop  very  fine  and  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  ground  cloves  if  you  like,  or  sage  leaves  may  be  rubbed  to  a powder 
and  added.  Mix  well  with  the  hand.  Put  into  deep  pans  with  straight  sides 
and  press  it  down  hard  with  a plate  that  fits  the  pan.  Put  th^  under  side  of 
the  plate  next  the  meat  and  place  a heavy  weight  on  it.  In  two  or  three 
days  turn  it  out  of  the  pan  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Use  vinegar  and  mustard 
over  it. 

12.  Bologna  Sausage. — Chop  fine  10  pounds  of  beef  and  2^2  pounds  of 
pork  and  thoroughly  mix  with  it  ounce  of  powdered  mace,  ounce  of  pow- 
dered cloves,  21/2  ounces  of  powdered  black  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  stand 
12  hours  and  stuff  in  muslin  bags  that  are  4 inches  wide  and  10  inches  long. 
Lay  them  in  ham  pickle  for  five  days  and  then  smoke  them  for  eight  days. 
Hang  in  a dark  place. 

13.  Scrapple. — Take  a hog’s  jowl,  the  feet  and  part  of  the  liver  and 
heart ; cleanse,  put  into  cold  water  and  cook  until  the  bones  may  be  easily  re- 
moved. Chop  fine  and  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sage.  Strain  the  liquor  on 
the  stove  and  again  add  the  meat.  Thicken  with  corn  meal  and  a teacupful  of 
buckwheat  flour  till  it  is  as  thick  as  mush.  Dip  out  into  deep  dishes  and 
when  it  is  cool  it  may  be  sliced  and  fried  like  mush.  By  pouring  hot  lard 
over  it  you  can  keep  it  all  winter.  It  is  very  nice  for  breakfast  on  a cold 
morning. 

14.  Cracknels. — This  is  what  is  left  from  frying  out  lard.  Put  them 
into  a pan  with  a little  warm  water  and  some  bread  crumbs  or  cold  corn 
bread  broken  fine.  Add  pepper  and  salt.  Fry  a nice  brown  and  serve  hot. 

15.  Pig’s  Feet  Souse. — After  scraping,  cleaning,  washing  and  singeing 
the  feet,  put  them  into  a kettle  with  plenty  of  water.  Boil  and  skim,  then 
pour  off  the  water  and  add  fresh  and  boil  until  the  bones  may  be  pulled 
out  easily;  do  not  bone,  but  pack  in  a stone  jar  with  salt  and  pepper  between 
each  layer;  cover  with  cider  vinegar.  When  wanted  for  use,  put  in  a hot 
skillet  and  add  more  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar  if  needed.  Boil  until  thoroughly 
heated,  stir  in  a smooth  thickening  of  flour  and  water,  and  boil  until  the 

r 


196 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


Hour  is  cooked.  Serve  hot  as  a breakfast  dish.  Or,  when  they  have  boiled 
until  tender,  take  out  the  bones  and  pack  in  a jar  as  above.  Slice  cold  when 
wanted. 

16.  Mince  Meat  (that  will  keep). — Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  boiled, 
when  cold  chop  fine;  1 pound  of  suet  minced  to  a powder,  2 pounds  of  sul- 
tanas or  seedless  raisins,  5 pounds  of  juicy  apples  pared  and  chopped,  2 
pounds  of  currants,  i/o  pound  of  citron  chopped,  2 tablespoonfuls  of  mace,  3 
taldespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  1 tablespoonful  of  allspice,  1 grated  nutmeg,  1 
tablespoonful  of  fine  salt,  3 pounds  of  brown  sugar,  2 quarts  of  sweet  cider. 
This  mince  meat  will  keep  all  winter. 

17.  Pressed  Beef. — Take  the  desired  amount  of  the  cheaper  pieces  of 
beef  and  let  there  be  a little  fat  so  that  it  will  be  marbled  ” when  pressed. 
Lay  in  weak  brine  over  night,  then  rinse  and  boil  until  very  tender  or  until 
it  will  fall  apart  easily.  Water  may  be  added  at  any  time,  but  only  enough 
shoula  be  used  to  keep  it  from  burning.  Keep  closely  covered  so  as  to  retain 
the  flavor.  Remove  the  meat  from  the  liquor  and  chop  fine.  Skim  all  the 
grease  from  the  liquor  and  add  to  the  liquor  a tablespoonful  of  gelatine  for  each 
five  pounds  of  beef.  Boil  the  liquor  down  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved 
and  the  liquor  is  like  jelly.  Mix  it,  with  a little  salt  and  spices  to  suit,  in 
the  chopped  beef;  pack  in  jars;  cover  with  a plate  and  weight  down.  It  will 
keep  several  months  in  winter.  It  should  be  sliced  when  wanted  for  use. 
When  using,  keep  it  covered  with  cloth  wet  with  salt  water.  Garnish  with 
sliced  lemon. 

18.  Preserving  Eggs. — Pour  three  pails  of  water  over  four  quarts  of  un- 
slacked lime  and  when  it  is  cold  add  one-half  pound  of  salt  and  one  ounce 
of  cream  of  tartar.  Eggs  covered  with  this  liquid  will  keep  a long  time. 


“WHAT  TO  DO”  AND  “HOW  TO  DO  IT.” 

Including  Various  Recipes  of  All  Kinds. 

“We  have  gathered  a posie  of  other  men’s  flowers 
And  nothing  but  the  thread  which  binds  them  is  ours.” 

1.  Blacksmith’s  Borax  for  Welding. — One  ounce  of  salt,  one  ounce  salt  - 
peter, two  ounces  copperas,  four  pounds  of  sand ; mix. 

2.  Washing  Fluid. — One  ounce  of  salts  of  tartar,  one  ounce  of  carbon- 
ate ammonia,  one  box  Babbit’s  lye,  one  gallon  of  soft  water.  Use  one-half 
teacup  to  a washing. 

3.  Furniture  Dressing. — Use  equal  parts  of  alcohol  and  raw  linseed 
oil.  First  remove  all  greasy  substances,  then  apply  with  a soft  woolen  cloth. 

4.  Washing  Fluid. — One  box  of  lye  and  five  cents  worth  of  borax, 
salts  of  tartar  and  dry  ammonia.  Dissolve  in  two  gallons  of  hot  water. 
Take  off  fire  before  putting  in  ammonia.  To  be  used  in  boiling  suds. 

5.  To  Clean  Carpets. — One  cake  ivory  soap,  one  bottle  ammonia,  five 
cents  worth  of  ether ; dissolve  soap  in  one  gallon  of  hot  water ; when  cool,  add 
ammonia  and  ether.  Scrub  small  space  at  a time  with  a brush  and  wipe  dry 
with  a soft  cloth  wrung  out  of  warm  water. 

6.  Wall  Paper  Cleaner. — One-half  cup  water,  one  cup  flour,  three  tea- 


“ WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  HOW  TO  DO  IT.” 


197 


spoonfuls  vinegar,  three  teaspoonfuls  ammonia,  one  teaspoonful  carbon  oil. 
Boil  and  stir  constantly  until  thick ; work  in  small  balls,  and  rub  paper  with 
downward  strokes.  Will  not  streak  or  spot  if  made  as  directed.  Fine. 

7.  Carpet  Cleaner. — Two  bars  ivory  soap,  four  ounces  soda,  four 
ounces  borax ; dissolve  the  soap  in  a quart  of  water ; add  five  gallons  of 
water  and,  when  ready  to  use  it,  add  four  ounces  of  sulphuric  ether;  use 
while  hot  with  scrubbing  brush.  You  do  not  need  to  use  any  cloth  or 
clean  water. 

8.  Carpet  Cleaner. — Use  five  cents  worth  of  salts  of  tartar  to  one  bar 
of  white  wool  or  ivory  soap ; add  this  to  three  gallons  of  water.  Shave  the 
soap  up  fine  and  let  it  boil.  Apply  with  brush  and  dry  with  dry  cloth.  This 
is  fine. 

9.  To  Destroy  Odor  of  Burning  Lamp  Wicks. — Boil  new  lamp  wicks 
in  vinegar  and  then  thoroughly  dry  them.  There  will  then  be  no  odor  from 
them  when  burning. 

10.  To  Remove  Paint  Stains  from  Cotton  and  Wool. — Old  dry  paint 
stains  may  be  removed  from  cotton  and  woolen  goods  by  first  covering  the  . 
spots  with  olive  oil  or  butter  and  then  applying  chloroform. 

11.  To  Preserve  Eggs. — One  quart  of  salt,  one  pint  of  slacked  lime  and 
three  gallons  of  water.  This  liquid  will  keep  eggs  for  years. 

12.  Ink  Spots. — Oxalic  acid  will  remove  ink  spots  from  books  without 
injuring  the  print. 

13.  Rust. — Iron  rust  may  be  removed  with  kerosene  oil. 

14.  To  Purify  Cistern  Water. — Cistern  water  may  be  purified  by  hang- 
ing a bag  of  charcoal  in  the  water. 

Ie5.  A Tight  Shoe. — Wring  a cloth  out  of  hot  water  and  apply  to  the 
part  that  is  tight.  If  necessary  renew  and  keep  shoe  on  until  the  leather  is 
stretched. 

16.  Cleaning  Plates  Before  Washing. — Tack  a bag  on  the  inside  of  the 
kitchen  sink  door  and  in  it  keep  cloths  to  be  used  in  cleaning  plates,  etc. 
before  dishwashing.  Dip  the  cloth  in  water,  rub  on  a little  soap,  then  wipe, 
instead  of  scrape,  the  dislies.  A great  help  in  kitchen  work. 

17.  To  Clean  Linoleum  or  Oil  Cloth. — Instead  of  using  soap  and  water, 
wash  with  sweet  milk.  The  milk  makes  it  look  fresh  and  bright  without 
destroying  the  luster. 

18.  To  Clean  Mud^from  Clothing. — Use  a corn-cob  to  rub  the  mud  from 
the  clothing,  then  brush  well. 

19.  To  Kill  Insects,  Such  as  Bed  Bugs,  Moths,  Etc. — Hot  alum  water 
is  the  best  thing  known  to  destroy  insects.  Boil  alum  in  water  until  it  is 
dissolved ; then  apply  the  hot  solution  with  a brush  to  closets,  bedsteads, 
cracks,  or  wherever  insects  are  found.  All  creeping  insects  may  be  destroyed 
by  its  use.  There  is  no  danger  of  poisoning  and  its  persistent  use  will  rid 
you  of  the  pests. 

20.  To  Remove  the  Smell  of  Onions  from  the  Breath. — Parsley,  eaten 
with  vinegar,  will  destroy  the  unpleasant  breath  caused  by  eating  onions. 

21.  To  Clean  and  Keep  Oil  Cloth  Nice. — Wash  in  clean,  warm,  soft 
water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a large  spoonful  of  borax.  If  hard  water 
is  used,  more  borax  will  be  needed. 

22.  To  Mend  Iron  Vessels. — Mix  finely  some  sifted  lime  with  the  white 
of  an  egg  till  a thin  paste  is  formed,  then  add  some  iron  filings.  Apply  this  to 
the  fracture  and  the  vessel  will  be  found  nearly  as  sound  as  ever. 


198 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


23.  To  Clean  Lamp  Chimneys. — Hold  chimney  over  the  steam  coming 
from  a boiling  kettle,  then  wipe  it  inside  and  outside  with  a soft  muslin 
cloth. 

24.  An  Excellent  Furniture  Polish. — Use  equal  parts  of  vinegar,  tur- 
pentine and  sweet  oil.  The  bottle  should  be  well  shaken  each  time  before 
using.  Wet  a cloth  and  rub  well  over  the  furniture,  then  wipe  with  a soft 
dry  cloth. 

25.  To  Remove  Tan. — Wash  with  a solution  of  lemon  juice  and  car- 
bonate of  soda;  follow  with  the  juice  of  unripe  grapes  if  they  may  be  had; 
if  not,  with  “ Fuller’s  Earth  Water.” 

26.  To  Remove  Wrinkles. — Melt  and  stir  together  one  ounce  of  white 
wax,  two  ounces  of  strained  honey  and  two  ounces  of  the  juice  of  lily  bulbs; 
apply  to  the  face  every  night  and  it  is  said  your  wrinkles  will  disappear. 

27.  To  Remove  Coffee  Stains. — The  yolk  of  an  egg  mixed  with  a little 
water  will  remove  coffee  stains.  Glycerine  will  do  the  same.  Rub  out  before 
washing. 

28.  To  Remove  Ink  from  Linen. — Dip  the  stained  parts  in  pure  melted 
tallow,  then  wash  in  water. 

29.  To  Remove  Grease  from  Woolen  Goods. — Do  not  put  either  hot 
or  cold  water  upon  woolens  that  have  had  grease  spilled  upon  them.  Sprinkle 
the  parts  with  either  buckwheat  or  rye  flour  and  let  it  absorb  the  grease ; 
then  brush  off  the  flour  and  apply  more,  so  continuing  until  all  the  grease 
has  been  absorbed.  Cornstarch  is  equally  effective  when  used  upon  cloth 
in  the  same  manner. 

30.  To  Exterminate  Roaches. — With  a machine  oil-can  squirt  kerosene 
oil  into  cracks  and  seams  behind  woodwork,  then  sprinkle  powdered  borax 
over  the  shelves  and  blow  it  into  the  cracks  with  a powder  blower. 

31.  To  Keep  Steel  Knives  from  Rusting. — Dip  the  knives  in  a strong 
solution  of  soda,  four  parts  of  soda  to  one  of  water;  then  wipe  dry,  roll  in 
flannel  and  keep  in  a dry  place. 

32.  Washing  Blankets. — When  washing  blankets  make  a lather  of  boiled 
soap  and  warm  water  and  for  each  pailful  and  a half  of  water  allow  a tea- 
spoonful of  household  ammonia.  Wash  in  two  or  three  waters,  put  through 
the  wringer  and  hang  out  to  dry.  Choose  a fine  windy  day  so  the  blankets 
will  dry  quickly. 

33.  To  Exterminate  Bed  Bugs. — Use  kerosene  oil  freely  wherever  the 
bugs  are  found. 

34.  Cement  for  Glass  and  Iron. — Alum  melted  in  an  iron  spoon  over 
the  fire  makes  a good  cement  for  joining  glass  and  iron.  It  is  useful  for  ce- 
menting the  glass  part  of  a lamp  to  its  metal  base  and  stopping  cracks  about 
the  base,  as  paraffine  will  not  penetrate  it. 

35.  To  Dry  Boots. — Fill  wet  boots  with  dry  oats  and  set  aside  for  a few 
hours.  The  oats  will  draw  the  moisture  from  the  boots  and,  swelling  out,  will 
keep  the  leather  from  shrinking  and  hardening  as  it  would  do  if  placed  near 
the  fire  to  dry. 

36.  To  Remove  Kerosene. — Cover  the  spot  with  cornmeal ; lay  a paper 
over  it  and  rub  with  a moderately  heated  iron.  Two  or  three  applications 
will  remove  the  kerosene.  Finely  powdered  chalk  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  cornmeal  if  desired. 

37.  To  Remove  Fruit  Stains. — Fruit  stains  may  be  removed  from  table 
linen  by  pouring  boiling  water  through  the  cloth  where  it  is  stained. 


WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  ‘‘  HOW  TO  DO  ITT 


199 


38.  Furniture  Polish. — A fine  furniture  polish  may  be  made  by  taking 
equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  salad  oil.  Apply  sparingly  with  a flannel  and 
polish  ofif  thoroughly  with  clean  cloths.  Don’t  forget  to  mix  lots  of  “ elbow 
grease  ” with  this. 

39.  To  Clean  Glass.- — Dampen  a cloth  with  either  alcohol  or  ammonia, 
then  dip  it  into  some  finely  sifted  wood  ashes  and  polish  the  glass.  Wipe  off 
with  a perfectly  dry  cloth. 

40.  To  Clean  a Glass  Decanter. — Put  into  it  a spoonful  of  vinegar  and 
a few  lumps  of  soda.  Shake  it  well  but  leave  the  top  open  or  it  may  burst 
the  decanter.  Rinse  with  cold  water. 

41.  To  Remove  Panes  of  Glass. — Lay  soft  soap  over  the  putty  for  a 
few  hours  and  it  will  become  soft  so  that  it  may  be  easily  scraped  away  no 
matter  how  hard  it  may  previously  have  been. 

42.  To  Clean  Light  Gloves. — Light  gloves  may  be  cleaned  by  rubbing 
them  with  fine  bread  crumbs.  It  is  best  to  rub  them  after  each  wearing 
so  that  they  do  not  become  badly  soiled. 

43.  To  Clean  Kid  Gloves. — If  not  too  badly  soiled,  kid  gloves  may  be 
cleaned  by  rubbing  them  with  a piece  of  oiled  silk  wound  about  the  finger. 

44.  Gnats. — Camphor  is  the  best  preventive  and  cure  for  the  stings  of 
gnats. 

45.  To  Remove  Grass  Stains. — Rub  the  stains  with  spirits  of  wine  and 
they  will  readily  come  out  when  washed  in  soap  and  water. 

46.  To  Remove  Grease. — Take  equal  parts  of  benzine,  ether  and  al- 
cohol; wet  a sponge  in  the  mixture  and  apply  by  patting  the  spot;  put  a 
piece  of  blotting  paper  on  each  side  and  iron  with  a hot  flatiron. 

47.  To  Remove  Grease  from  Floor. — Soda  and  hot  water  will  remove 
grease  from  the  floor. 

48.  To  Remove  Ink  Stains. — If  ink  is  spilled  upon  a carpet,  table- 
cloth or  dress  it  is  best  to  take  up  as  much  of  the  ink  as  possible  with  blotting 
paper,  or  salt  is  also  good  to  absorb  it.  Then  wash  the  parts  thoroughly 
with  milk  several  times  until  all  the  ink  is  removed.  It  is  then  well  to  wash 
out  the  parts  with  ammonia  water  to  remove  grease.  If  the  spots  are  dry, 
rub  a piece  of  lemon  on  some  salt  and  then  upon  the  stain.  Oxalic  acid  and 
salts  of  lemon  are  both  good  also. 

49.  To  Clean  Lamp  Chimneys. — Rub  them  with  a piece  of  newspaper 
upon  which  a little  kerosene  has  been  poured.  This  is  better  than  soap  and 
the  chimney  will  not  be  so  likely  to  crack. 

50.  To  Wash  Flannels. — Put  borax  in  the  water  and  the  flannels  will 
look  like  new  and  will  not  shrink. 

51.  Ironing. — A little  table  salt  added  to  the  starch  helps  in  the  ironing. 

52.  To  Prevent  Scorching  when  Ironing. — Rub  the  iron  on  a cloth  satu- 
rated with  kerosene. 

53.  To  Remove  Stains  from  Clothing. — Rub  the  stained  parts  with  lard 
before  washing.  With  washable  goods,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  rubbed  upon  the 
stains  before  laundering  will  remove  the  spots. 

54.  To  Wash  Black  Stockings. — Black  stockings  will  retain  their  color 
if  washed  in  warm  suds  of  water  and  soap,  with  a little  vinegar  in  the  rinse. 

55.  To  Polish  Patent  Leather. — Orange  juice  will  be  found  to  be  a good 
polish  for  patent  leather.  ' 

56.  To  Remove  Old  Paint  and  Varnish. — A mixture  of  two  parts  of 


200 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  ROOK. 


ammonia  and  one  part  turpentine  will  soften  old  paint  and  varnish  so  that 
they  may  easily  be  scraped  off. 

57.  To  Wash  Painted  Surfaces. — Wash  painted  surfaces  with  milk. 

58.  Piano  Polish. — Rub  well  with  a piece  of  flannel  cloth  saturated  with 
a mixture  of  equal  parts  of  turpentine,  linseed  oil  and  vinegar.  Polish  with 
a piece  of  chamois  skin.  This  treatment  will  entirely  remove  the  dingy 
appearance  from  fine  woods. 

59.  To  Loosen  Screws. — Hold  a red  hot  poker  on  the  head  of  a rusty 
screw  for  two  or  three  minutes  and  it  may  be  easily  removed  with  a screw 
driver. 

60.  To  Clean  Blackened  Silver. — Add  a teaspoonful  of  ammonia  to  a 
cup  of  water  and  use  a little  of  this  to  make  a paste  with  whiting.  Apply 
the  paste  to  the  silverware  with  a soft  chamois  and  polish  it,  using  another 
chamois  to  dry  it. 

61.  To  Remove  Soot. — Should  soot  fall  upon  the  carpet  cover  it  with 
dry  salt  and  it  may  be  swept  up  without  leaving  smears. 

62.  To  Remove  Tea  Stains. — Tea  stains  may  be  removed  by  washing 
the  fabric  with  milk.  After  the  milk  has  dried  the  grease  may  be  removed 
with  benzine  or  naphtha. 

63.  To  Frost  Window  Panes. — Dissolve  some  epsom  salts  in  beer  and 
apply  with  a brush  and  you  will  have  the  best  window  frosting  known. 

64.  To  Dry  Woolens  Without  Shrinking. — A large  manufacturer  of 
woolen  goods  says  that  woolen  garments  should  be  hung  on  the  line  dripping 
wet  and  not  wrung  out  at  all.  If  dried  in  this  way  the  shrinkage  will  be 
almost  unnoticeable. 

65.  Moths. — Moths  will  not  lay  their  eggs  where  fine-cut  tobacco  has 
been  scattered. 

66.  Moths. — Sprinkle  furs  and  woolens  and  the  drawers  and  boxes  in 
which  they  are  kept  with  spirits  of  turpentine  and  the  moths  will  not  bother 
them. 

67.  Moths. — Camphor  gum  is  a preventive  of  moths.  Goods  packed 
in  a cedar  chest  will  be  kept  free  from  moths.  Exposing  clothes  and  furs 
occasionally  to  the  light  and  air  and  beating  and  shaking  them  is  probably 
the  best  treatment,  however. 

68.  To  Keep  Away  Mice. — Mice  do  not  like  the  smell  of  camphor  gum 
and  if  it  is  placed  in  drawers  or  trunks  they  will  keep  at  a distance.  Seeds 
may  also  be  protected  by  mixing  small  pieces  of  camphor  gum  with  them. 

69.  To  Drive  Rats  Away  Without  Killing. — Put  plenty  of  pulverized 
potash  in  their  holes  and  places  they  frequent  and  they  will  leave  the  premises. 

70.  To  Drive  Rats  Away. — Put  some  copperas  in  whitewash  and  paint 
the  places  they  visit.  Also  scatter  the  crystals  of  copperas  in  their  holes 
and  runways  and  over  the  floors  and  the  rats  will  look  for  another  home. 

71.  To  Drive  Away  Rats. — Scatter  either  sulphur  or  sage  about  the 
places  they  frequent  and  you  will  get  rid  of  the  troublesome  pests. 

72.  A Preventive  for  Red  Ants. — Pour  a quart  of  boiling  water  over  half 
a pint  of  tar  in  an  earthen  vessel  and  set  the  vessel  in  the  closet  and  you 
will  not  be  troubled  with  red  ants. 

73.  To  Get  Rid  of  Flies. — It  is  said  that  you  will  not  be  troubled 
with  many  flies  if  you  keep  geraniums  growing  in  the  house.  Then  why  not 
have  more  flowers  and  fewer  flies? 

74.  To  Prevent  Bites  from  Mosquitoes  and  Flies. — Mix  three  ounces  of 


“ WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  “ HOW  TO  DO  IT.” 


201 


sweet  oil  and  one  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  and  when  mosquitoes  are  troublesome 
apply  to  the  face  and  hands  every  half  hour.  After  it  has  been  used  two  or 
three  days  and  the  skin  is  saturated  it  may  be  used  less  frequently.  Be 
careful  not  to  get  it  in  the  eyes.  It  is  very  effective  and  not  harmful  to 
the  skin. 

75.  Mosquitoes  and  Flies. — Apply  to  the  face  and  hands  a mixture  of 
six  parts  of  sweet  oil,  one  part  pennyroyal  and  one  part  creosote  and  you 
will  prevent  bites  of  mosquitoes  and  flies.  Do  not  allow  it  to  get  in  the  eyes. 

76.  To  Clean  Jewelry. — Wash  the  jewelry  in  soap  suds,  rinse  it  well 
in  diluted  alcohol  and  lay  it  in  sawdust  to  dry.  Fine  for  gold  chains  and  all 
kinds  of  ornaments. 

77.  To  Clean  Silver. — Rub  the  silver  with  alcohol  and  ammonia,  then 
polish  with  a little  whiting  on  a soft  cloth.  Even  frosted  silver  may  be 
made  clear  and  bright  with  this  treatment. 

78.  To  Purify  Water. — A large  spoonful  of  pulverized  alum  will  purify 
a hogshead  of  water.  It  should  be  thoroughly  stirred  in  and  it  will  be  very 
effective  in  killing  microbes. 

79.  To  Make  Hard  Water  Soft. — Fill  the  boiler  with  hard  water  and 
set  on  the  stove.  Then  put  half  a cup  of  wood  ashes  into  a woolen  bag 
covered  with  cotton  cloth  to  prevent  the  sifting  out  of  the  ashes  and  hang 
the  bag  in  the  water  until  the  water  is  warm. 

80.  To  Clean  Tinware. — Take  the  fine,  soft  coal  ashes  which  collect 
in  the  pipe  and  under  the  pan ; mix  these  with  soft  soap  and  scour  with  a 
flannel  cloth.  Afterwards  polish  with  a clean  flannel. 

81.  Gem  Washing  Fluid. — Put  three  quarts  of  rain  water  over  the  fire 
and  add  one  pound  of  salsoda,  one  ounce  salts  of  tartar  and  one  ounce  of 
borax.  After  it  is  taken  from  the  stove  and  is  cold  add  one  ounce  of  ammonia. 
Put  one  cup  of  this  into  the  boiler  when  boiling  clothes. 

82.  Hard  Soap. — Put  seven  pounds  of  tallow,  three  pounds  of  rosin 
and  two  pounds  of  potash  into  six  gallons  of  water  and  boil  for  from  three 
to  five  hours ; pour  into  a wash  tub  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  cut  it  into  bars  and  lay  in  the  sun  for  two  or  three  days  to  harden. 

This  will  last  an  ordinary  family  a year  and  save  many  a quarter  that  is 
spent  for  soap. 

83.  Soft  Soap. — To  six  gallons  of  soft  water  add  three  pounds  of  best 
hard  soap  (finely  cut),  one  pound  of  salsoda  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  harts- 
horn ; boil  until  it  is  entirely  dissolved ; pour  into  convenient  vessels  and 
when  cold  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  This  makes  fifty  pounds  of  fine  soft  soap. 

84.  To  Remove  Scorches  from  Cloth. — Spread  over  the  scorched  places 
a mixture  of  the  juice  of  two  onions,  two  ounces  Fuller’s  earth  and  one- 
half  pint  of  vinegar.  These  ingredients  should  be  mixed,  thoroughly  boiled 
and  cooked  before  using. 

85.  To  Remove  Stains  Caused  by  Scorching. — Often  all  that  is  re- 
quired to  whiten  scorched  linen  is  to  wet  it  with  soap  suds  and  lay  it  in  the 
hot  sun.  Another  method  is  to  boil  the  linen  in  a gallon  of  milk  in  which 
is  dissolved  a pound  of  white  soap. 

86.  To  Remove  Mildew. — Dip  the  article  in  sour  buttermilk,  lay  it  in 
the  sun  to  whiten  and  wash  in  clean  water.  Another  method  is  to  apply 
a mixture  of  soap,  starch,  salt  and  the  juice  of  a lemon.  Use  half  as  much 
salt  as  starch. 

87.  To  Remove  Linen  Stains. — Rub  the  stains  with  soft  soap,  apply  a 


202 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


starch  paste,  dry  in  the  sun  and  wash  out  in  cold  water.  Repeat  several 
times  if  necessary. 

88.  To  Clean  Gilt  Frames. — Take  chloride  of  plaster  or  soda,  one  ounce; 
white  of  eggs,  two  ounces ; mix  thoroughly  and  apply  with  a soft  brush  after 
blowing  the  dust  from  the  frames. 

89.  To  Keep  Butter  for  Winter  Use. — Into  six  pounds  of  fresh  butter 
work  a large  spoonful  of  salt  and  a tablespoonful  each  of  saltpeter  and 
powdered  white  sugar.  Pack  in  a crock  that  is  perfectly  clean  and  cover 
with  salt. 

90.  To  Prevent  Rust. — Melt  together  one  part  of  rosin  and  three  parts 
of  lard  and  apply  a thin  coating  to  stoves,  grates,  plows,  etc.  It  is  equally 
good  when  used  on  brass,  steel,  copper  and  other  metals.  This  also  makes 
a good  water-proof  application  for  boots  and  shoes. 

91.  Cement  for  Wood,  Ivory,  Stone,  Porcelain,  Leather,  Silk,  Woolen 
or  Cotton. — Melt  together  in  an  iron  vessel  one  part,  by  weight,  of  gutta 
percha  and  two  parts  of  common  pitch  and  you  will  have  one  of  the  best 
cements  made.  It  is  not  affected  by  water  and  is  thus  especially  valuable  for 
certain  purposes. 

92.  Cement  for  Rubber  or  Leather. — Dissolve  two  ounces  of  gutta 
percha  in  a pound  of  chloroform.  Thoroughly  clean  the  parts  that  are  to  be 
cemented,  cover  each  part  with  the  mixture  and  let  them  dry  for  nearly 
half  an  hour,  then  warm  each  part  in  a candle  flame  and  press  firmly  together 
until  dry. 

93.  Diamond  Cement. — Dissolve  thirteen  ounces  of  white  glue  in  a 
pint  and  a half  of  soft  water,  then  stir  in  three  ounces  of  white  lead  and 
boil  until  it  is  thoroughly  mixed;  remove  from  the  stove  and  when  cool  add 
half  a pint  of  alcohol ; bottle  at  once  and  keep  tightly  corked. 

94.  Weights  and  Measures. — 

One  pound  of  soft  butter  is  equal  to  a pint. 

Ten  eggs  are  equal  to  a pound. 

A pound  of  brown  or  white  sugar,  powdered  or  loaf  sugar, 
broken,  equals  a pint. 

A pound  and  two  ounces  of  either  wheat  flour  or  corn  meal  is 
equal  to  a quart. 

Eight  large  tablespoonfuls  are  equal  to  a gill. 

Thirty-two  large  tablespoonfuls  equal  a pint. 

A common  sized  wine-glass  holds  four  tablespoonfuls,  or  half  a 
gill. 

A common  sized  tumbler  holds  half  a pint  or  sixteen  large  table- 
spoonfuls. 

Four  ordinary  teacups  of  liquid  equal  a quart. 

95.  To  Clean  Coat  Collars  and  Remove  Gloss  from  Seams  and  Elbows. — 
Rub  the  parts  with  a clean  flannel  dipped  in  either  benzine  or  aqua  ammonia 
or  a solution  made  by  dissolving  a piece  of  carbonate  of  ammonia  the  size 
of  a walnut  in  a cup  of  warm  water.  These  are  inexpensive  and  will  not 
change  the  color  Do  not  use  benzine  in  a room  where  there  is  a light  or  fire. 

96.  Liquid  Glue. — Dissolve  glue  in  nitric  ether  and  it  will  be  twice  as 
adhesive  as  that  dissolved  in  hot  water.  The  glue  cannot  be  made  too  thick 
as  the  ether  will  dissolve  only  a certain  amount  of  glue  and  will  be  of  about 
the  consistency  of  molasses.  If  a few  bits  of  India  rubber  are  dissolved  in 
it  the  glue  will  be  all  the  better  and  will  stand  moisture  better. 


“ WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  “ HOW  TO  DO  IT.” 


203 


97.  Cement  for  Broken  China. — Dissolve  gum  arabic  in  water  until  it  is 
quite  thick  and  then  stir  in  plaster  of  Paris  until  it  makes  a sticky  paste. 
Apply  with  a brush,  stick  the  pieces  together  and  after  three  days  you  cannot 
break  the  china  in  the  same  place. 

98.  Fire-Kindler. — Soak  corn-cobs  in  kerosene  oil ; when  needed  put  a 
cob  in  the  stove,  set  fire  to  it  and  put  on  the  fuel. 

99.  To  Loosen  Covers  of  Fruit  Jars. — Place  the  cover  in  hot  water  for 
two  or  three  minutes  and  it  may  then  be  easily  unscrewed. 

100.  To  Wash  Calicoes,  Cambrics  and  Muslins. — Before  washing,  soak 
them  in  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt 
to  each  pail  of  water. 

101.  To  Wash  and  Dry  Flannels. — Wash  flannels  with  as  little  rubbing 
as  possible.  Pull  them  both  lengthwise  and  crosswise  while  drying  rapidly. 

102.  Washing  Black  and  White  Calicoes. — Soak  them  first  in  water  to 
which  has  been  added  one  or  two  cups  of  weak  lye  to  each  pail  of  water. 

103.  Washing  Pink  and  Green  Calicoes. — It  is  best  to  use  one  or  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  to  each  pail  of  water. 

104.  Washing  Purple  or  Blue. — Use  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  either 
salsoda  or  borax  to  each  pail  of  water. 

105.  To  Wash  Ribbons. — Ribbons  should  be  washed  in  cold  suds  and 
should  not  be  rinsed. 

106.  To  Remove  Paint  Spots  from  Windows. — Dissolve  an  ounce  of 
salsoda  in  a pint  of  soft  water.  Use  it  hot.  Tie  a flannel  on  a stick,  dip  into 
the  liquid  and  apply  until  the  paint  is  softened,  then  wash  ofif  with  hot  water. 

107.  Washing  Windows. — Add  a tablespoonful  of  either  powdered  borax 
or  ammonia  to  a gallon  of  warm  water  and  wash  the  windows,  using  a 
chamois  to  dry  and  polish  them. 

108.  China  and  Glass  Cement. — Alix  one  pint  of  milk  with  one  pint  of 
vinegar ; take  out  the  curds  and  to  the  whey  add  the  whites  of  five  eggs ; 
beat  well  together  and  add  enough  finely  sifted  quick  lime  to  make  a thick 
paste.  This  cement  is  fine  for  mending  glass  and  china  as  it  is  affected  by 
neither  fire  nor  water. 

109.  Grafting  Wax. — Melt  together  two  pounds  of  rosin  and  a half 
pound  each  of  tallow  and  beeswax.  Mix  thoroughly,  cool  in  cold  water  and 
work  until  it  is  pliable.  It  will  keep  for  years. 

110.  To  Destroy  Currant  Worms  and  Rose  Slugs. — Spray  the  bushes 
with  a solution  of  one  pound  of  powdered  hellebore  to  twenty-five  gallons  of 
water. 

111.  Cabbage  Worms. — Spray  the  cabbages  with  a mixture  of  six  quarts 
of  water,  one  ounce  of  yellow  soap  and  one  pint  of  kerosene,  and  you  will 
kill  the  worms  without  injuring  the  plant.  This  mixture  should  be  kept  well 
mixed  while  applying. 

112.  Treatment  of  New  Cooking  Utensils. — Iron  pots  should  be  boiled 
out  first  with  wood  ashes  and  cold  water  and  then  thoroughly  washed.  They 
are  then  ready  for  use.  Griddles,  skillets,  waffle  irons  and  iron  gem  pans 
should  be  greased  and  allowed  to  burn  off  once  or  twice  before  they  are 
used  for  cooking. 

113.  To  Wash  Greasy  Skillets. — Greasy  skillets  are  best  cleaned  when 
hot.  The  addition  of  a little  soda  to  the  first  water  will  make  them  more 
easily  cleaned. 


204 


THE  PEOPLE'S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


114.  To  Clean  Bottles  and  Cruets. — These  are  best  cleaned  with  shot 
and  soap  suds.  Save  the  shot  in  a bottle  to  be  used  again. 

115.  Care  of  Coffee  Pots. — If  you  would  have  good  coffee  always  keep 
the  inside  of  the  pot  clean.  Boil  it  out  once  in  a while  with  soap,  water  and 
wood  ashes  and  scour  it  thoroughly. 

116.  The  Teakettle. — In  localities  where  there  is  lime  in  the  water 
it  is  well  to  keep  an  oyster  or  egg  shells  in  the  teakettle  to  receive  the 
lime  deposits. 

117.  To  Clean  Kitchen  Floors,  Tables  and  Wooden  Articles. — Use  sand 
or  bath  brick  to  scrub  floors,  tables  and  wooden  articles. 

118.  To  Keep  Silverware. — It  keeps  best  when  wrapped  in  blue  tissue 
paper. 

119.  To  Keep  Hinges  from  Creaking. — Dip  a feather  into  oil  and  rub 
them  with  it. 

120.  To  Drive  Away  Fleas. — Sprinkle  a few  drops  of  lavender  about 
the  beds  and  other  places  they  infest. 

121.  To  Drive  Away  Red  Ants. — Put  a small  bag  of  sulphur  in  the 
drawers  and  cupboards. 

122.  Icy  Windows. — Rub  the  glass  with  a sponge  dipped  in  alcohol  and 
the  windows  will  be  kept  free  from  ice.  Alcohol  is  also  good  to  polish  them 
with. 

123.  To  Kill  Roaches. — They  may  be  poisoned  by  sprinkling  the  floors 
at  night  with  hellebore. 

124.  To  Keep  Pails  and  Tubs  from  Shrinking. — Soak  them  with  gly- 
cerine and  the  pails  and  tubs  will  not  shrink  and  fall  to  pieces. 

125.  To  Keep  Flies  Off  Gilt  Frames. — Boil  three  or  four  onions  in  a pint 
of  water  and  apply  the  water  to  the  frames  with  a soft  cloth  or  brush. 

126.  To  Remove  Dry  Putty  from  Window  Frames. — Pass  a red  hot 
poker  over  the  putty  and  it  may  easily  be  removed. 

127.  To  Soften  Hard  Water. — Water  may  be  softened  by  boiling  it. 
Hard  spring  water  is  softened  by  adding  a piece  of  chalk  to  it.  Cistern  water 
that  is  hard  from  long  standing  may  be  softened  by  the  addition  of  a little 
borax. 

128.  To  Remove  Smell  of  Fresh  Paint. — Mix  chloride  of  lime  in  water, 
sprinkle  hay  with  it  and  place  in  the  room. 

129.  To  Clean  Chromos. — Go  over  them  carefully  with  a slightly  damp- 
ened linen  rag.  If  any  of  the  varnish  is  off  apply  a thin  mastic  varnish. 

130.  To  Clean  a Sponge. — Rub  fresh  lemon  juice  thoroughly  into  a 
soured  sponge,  then  rinse  several  times  in  warm  water  and  the  sponge  will 
be  as  sweet  as  when  new. 

131.  To  Take  Kerosene  and  Grease  Spots  from  Carpets. — Cover  the 
grease  spot  with  flour  and  then  pin  a thick  paper  over  it  and  after  leaving 
awhile  sweep  up  the  flour.  Repeat  several  times. 

132.  Hard  Whitewash. — Dissolve  five  cents  worth  of  glue  in  warm 
water  and  mix  with  ten  cents  worth  of  kalsomine,  two  quarts  of  soft  soap 
and  bluing.  Fine  for  halls,  fences,  etc. 

133.  To  Remove  Bad  Smells  from  Clothing. — Articles  of  clothing  or 
any  other  articles  which  have  bad  smelling  substances  on  them  may  be  freed 
from  the  smell  by  wrapping  them  up  lightly  and  burying  in  the  ground  for 
a day  or  two. 


WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  ‘‘  HOW  TO  DO  IT.” 


205 


134.  To  Mend  Tin. — Scrape  all  rust  and  grease  from  the  parts  to  be 
mended,  rub  a piece  of  resin  on  it  till  a powder  lies  about  the  hole,  lay  a 
piece  of  solder  over  it  and  hold  a hot  poker  or  soldering  iron  over  it  until 
the  solder  melts. 

135.  To  Remove  Grease  from  Wood  Before  Painting. — Whitewash  the 
parts  at  night  and  wash  off  in  the  morning.  Let  it  dry  before  painting. 
It  is  as  well  to  lay  a little  slacked  lime  on  the  parts  and  dampen  a little. 

136.  Lightning  Cream  for  Clothes  or  Paint. — Dissolve  four  ounces  of 
finely  cut  white  castile  soap  in  one  quart  of  soft  water  over  the  fire ; remove 
from  fire;  add  four  ounces  of  ammonia,  two  ounces  of  alcohol,  two  ounces  of 
ether  and  one  ounce  of  glycerine. 

137.  Magic  Furniture  Polish. — One-half  pint  of  alcohol,  one-half  ounce 
gum-shellac,  one-half  ounce  resin,  a few  drops  of  aniline  brown ; mix  and 
let  stand  over  night,  then  add  one-half  pint  spirits  of  turpentine  and  three- 
fourths  pint  of  raw  linseed  oil.  This  should  be  well  shaken  before  using. 
Apply  with  a cotton  flannel  and  rub  dry  with  another  cloth. 

138.  To  Temper  Lamp  Chimneys  and  Other  Glassware. — Put  them 
into  cold  water;  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  them  boil  for  an 
hour.  They  should  be  allowed  to  cool  before  removing  from  water. 

139.  A Good  Cement  for  All  Kinds  of  Articles. — Mix  litharge  and  gly- 
cerine until  of  the  consistency  of  thick  cream  or  fresh  putty.  This  is  good 
for  fastening  on  lamp  posts,  mending  stone  jars,  stopping  leaks  in  seams 
of  wash  boilers  or  tin  pans,  cracks  in  iron  kettles,  etc.  It  is  not  affected 
by  water,  heat  or  acids. 

140.  To  Clean  Wall  Paper. — Blow  the  dust  off  the  wall  with  a bellows 
and  then,  beginning  at  the  top  of  the  room,  go  all  over  the  paper,  rubbing  it 
with  downward  strokes  with  pieces  of  stale  bread.  Or,  tie  about  two  quarts 
of  wheat  bran  in  a flannel  and  go  over  the  paper  with  that.  Or,  dry  corn  meal 
may  be  used  instead  of  bread.  Apply  on  a cloth.  Grease  spots  may  be 
removed  by  laying  a blotter  over  them  and  then  holding  a hot  flatiron  on 
the  blotter. 

141.  To  Drive  Away  Red  Ants. — Scatter  sweet  fern  in  the  places  they 
frequent. 

142.  To  Remove  Egg  Stains  from  Silverware. — Rub  the  silverware  with 
a little  salt  or  wash  in  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled. 

143.  To  Remove  Taste  of  Fish  from  Tableware. — Rub  steel  knives  and 
forks  with  fresh  lemon  or  orange  peel  to  remove  the  taste  of  fish. 

144.  Corks. — If  they  are  too  large  put  them  into  hot  water  for  a few 
moments  to  soften. 

145.  To  Prevent  Rusting  of  Cutlery. — After  wiping  dry,  wrap  it  in 
coarse  brown  paper. 

146.  To  Brighten  Tin  Teakettles. — With  a woolen  cloth  saturated  with 
kerosene  a tin  teakettle  may  be  rubbed  as  bright  as  new. 

147.  Care  of  Wire  Tableware. — It  will  keep  bright  if  washed  in  clean 
water  with  soap  added.  Never  scour  it. 

148.  Silver  Polish. — Add  three  ounces  of  precipitated  chalk  and  two 
ounces  of  ammonia  to  one  quart  of  rain  water.  Keep  well  corked  in  a bottle 
and  shake  before  using. 

149.  Cement  for  China,  Marble  and  Glassware. — Add  enough  finely 
powdered  quick  lime  to  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  make  a thick  paste. 


206 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


150.  Water-proof  Paper  Covering  for  Jars — Used  in  Preserving,  Etc. — 

llrush  the  paper  over  with  boiled  linseed  oil  and  hang  over  a line  until  dry. 

151.  To  Remove  Tight  Glass  Stoppers. — Wet  a cloth  in  hot  water  and 
wrap  it  around  the  neck  of  the  bottle.  Another  way  is  to  wind  a cord  once 
around  the  heck  of  the  bottle  and  saw  back  and  forth  a few  times  until  the 
neck  is  heated  and  expands. 

152.  To  Clean  Knives. — Take  a raw  potato,  cut  it  in  two,  dip  the  flat 
surface  in  brick  dust  and  rub  the  knife  blades.  This  will  remove  rust  and 
stains.  A cloth  or  a cork  may  be  used  in  like  manner. 

153.  A Fire  Kindler. — Melt  together  a quart  of  tar  and  three  pounds 
of  resin  and  stir  in  as  much  pulverized  charcoal  and  sawdust  as  possible ; 
spread  on  a board  to  cool  and  then  break  it  into  lumps  the  size  of  a walnut. 
These  lumps  may  be  lighted  with  a match  and  will  burn  quite  a while  with 
a good  blaze. 

154.  To  Clean  Brass  or  Copper  Kettles. — First  scour  with  soap  and 
ashes,  then  put  in  a handful  of  salt  and  a half  pint  of  vinegar ; put  over  the  fire 
and  let  come  to  a boil  and  wash  out  thoroughly,  afterwards  rinsing  with 
water.  If  the  kettle  is  used  every  day  the  scouring  with  soap  and  ashes  may 
be  omitted. 

155.  To  Soften  Water. — Boil  a small  bottle  in  a kettle  of  water  to 
soften  the  water.  The  carbonate  of  lime  and  other  impurities  will  be  found 
adhering  to  the  bottle. 

156.  To  Remove  Rust  from  Plows  and  Other  Steel  Implements. — Rub 

the  steel  well  with  sweet  oil  and  let  it  remain  for  two  days,  then  rub  it  with 
finely  powdered  unslacked  lime  until  the  rust  is  removed. 

157.  To  Polish  Iron  or  Steel. — Vienna  lime  and  alcohol  applied  with 
leather,  chamois,  a cork  or  piece  of  soft  wood  will  give  a fine  polish  to  iron 
or  steel. 

158.  To  Clean  White  Zephyr. — Rub  with  either  magnesia  or  flour  and 
change  often.  Shake  off  the  flour  or  magnesia  and  hang  for  a short  time 
in  the  open  air. 

159.  To  Clean  Alpaca. — Sponge  alpaca  with  strained  coffee  and  iron 
on  the  wrong  side  with  black  cambric  under  the  goods. 

160.  To  Take  Out  Machine  Oil. — Rub  with  a little  soap  and  wash  out 
in  cold  water.  Another  way  is  to  rub  with  a little  butter  or  lard  and  wash 
in  warm  water. 

161.  To  Stiffen  Linen  Collars  and  Cuffs. — Add  a teaspoonful  of  brandy 
and  a small  piece  of  white  wax  to  a pint  of  fine  starch.  Soap  the  bottom 
of  the  iron  if  it  sticks. 

162.  To  Clean  Rusty  Wash  Boilers. — Wash  them  with  sweet  milk  or 
grease  with  lard. 

163.  To  Remove  Paint  from  Clothing. — Saturate  the  spot  two  or  three 
times  with  equal  parts  of  spirits  of  turpentine  and  ammonia  and  then  wash 
out  with  soap  suds.  This  treatment  will  remove  paint  no  matter  how  dry 
or  hard  it  may  be. 

164.  To  Restore  Velvet. — Velvet  when  crushed  may  be  restored  to  its 
original  beauty  by  holding  it  over  a basin  of  hot  water  with  the  wrong  side 
next  the  water. 

165.  To  Remove  Spots,  Caused  by  an  Acid,  from  Cloth. — Touch  the 
spots  with  spirits  of  hartshorn. 


“ WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  “ HOW  TO  DO  IT.” 


207 


166.  To  Remove  Spots,  Caused  by  an  Alkali,  from  Cloth. — Moisten  the 
spots  with  either  vinegar  or  tartaric  acid. 

167.  To  Prevent  Blue  from  Fading. — All  shades  of  blue  may  be  pre- 
vented from  fading  by  soaking  for  two  hours  in  a solution  of  an  ounce  of 
sugar  of  lead  to  a pail  of  water.  The  material  should  then  be  allowed  to  dry 
before  washing  and  ironing. 

168.  To  Wash  Red  Table  Linen. — Set  the  color  by  using  warm  or  tepid 
water  in  which  a little  powdered  borax  has  been  dissolved ; wash  the  article 
separately  and  quickly,  using  but  a very  little  soap  and  rinse  in  tepid  water 
containing  a little  boiled  starch ; hang  in  the  shade  and  iron  when  almost  dry. 

169.  To  Clean  Alpaca. — Put  the  goods  into  a boiler  half  full  of  cold 
rain  water  and  let  come  to  a boil  and  boil  three  minutes.  Wring  out  of  the 
boiling  water  and  put  into  a pail  of  very  dark  indigo  water,  let  remain  for 
half  an  hour,  wring  out  and  iron  while  damp. 

170.  To  Clean  Velvet. — Turn  a hot  flatiron  bottom  side  up,  put  one 
thickness  of  wet  cotton  cloth  over  it,  lay  the  velvet  on  this  with  the  wrong 
side  next  the  wet  cloth,  rub  gently  with  a dry  cloth  until  the  pile  is  raised 
then  lay  the  velvet  on  a table  and  brush  with  a cloth  or  soft  brush. 

171.  To  Take  Grease  Out  of  Woolens,  Silks,  Paper,  Floors,  Etc. — Grate 
either  French  or  common  chalk  thickly  over  the  spot,  cover  with  a brown 
paper,  set  a hot  flatiron  on  it  and  let  it  remain  until  cool ; repeat  if  necessary. 
See  that  the  iron  is  not  hot  enough  to  burn  the  paper  or  cloth. 

172.  Silver  Polish  for  Shirts. — One  ounce  borax,  one  ounce  isinglass, 
two  teaspoonfuls  white  of  egg,  one  teaspoonful  white  glue ; cook  well  in  two 
quarts  of  fine  starch.  Starch  in  this  and  dry.  Before  ironing  apply  it  to 
the  cuffs  and  bosom  with  a cloth  until  well  dampened  and  iron  immediately 
with  a hot  glossing  iron. 

173.  To  Clean  Black  Lace. — Wipe  off  all  the  dust  carefully  with  a cam- 
bric handkerchief;  then  pin  it  on  a board,  inserting  a pin  in  each  point  of  lace 
that  projects.  Sprinkle  it  all  over  with  table  beer  and  leave  it  until  perfectly 
dry  when  it  will  look  fresh  and  new. 

174.  To  Remove  Iron  Rust  from  Clothing. — When  rinsing  the  clothes 
dip  the  wet  finger  in  oxalic  acid  and  rub  on  the  spot,  then  dip  in  salt  and  rub 
on  and  then  hold  on  a hot  flatiron.  Rinse  again  and  rub.  with  the  hands. 

175.  To  Wash  Neckties  and  Other  Goods  that  Fade. — Instead  of  soap 
use  crude  ammonia.  Use  a teaspoonful  of  spirits  of  hartshorn  to  two  teacups 
of  water  for  washing  neckties.  If  they  are  much  soiled  put  through  a second 
wash  not  quite  so  strong.  Lay  the  tie  on  a clean  white  cloth  and  wipe  it 
gently  with  another  cloth  until  dry. 

176.  To  Clean  Woolen  and  Silk  Dress  Goods. — Any  woolen  or  silk  dress 
goods  may  be  washed  and  rubbed  in  gasoline  without  injury.  The  dirt  is 
quickly  removed  without  injuring  the  colors.  Do  not  use  gasoline  near  a stove 
or  light. 

177.  To  Clean  Silk  and  Thread  Gloves. — Put  the  gloves  on  the  hands 
and  wash  them  in  white  castile  soap  suds  or  in  borax  water  the  same  as 
though  washing  the  hands ; rinse  by  holding  under  a stream  of  water  and 
dry  with  a towel.  Keep  them  on  until  half  dried,  remove  and  fold  carefully 
like  new  gloves  and  lay  between  towels  under  a weight. 

178.  To  Wash  Delicate  Colored  Muslins. — Make  a thick  corn  meal  mush, 
salt  it  well  and  use  instead  of  soap;  rinse  in  one  or  two  waters.  It  will  not 
need  starching. 


208 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


170.  Washing  Laces. — Mix  the  dry  particles  of  starch  with  enough  cold 
water  to  make  a smooth  paste  and  add  cold  water  until  it  looks  like  milk  and 
water  and  boil  in  a glazed  earthen  vessel  until  transparent.  While  the 
starch  is  cooling  squeeze  the  laces  through  soap  suds  and  rinse  in  clear  water. 
If  you  desire  them  to  be  clear  white,  add  a little  bluing;  if  ivory  white,  omit 
the  bluing;  if  yellow-tinged,  add  a few  teaspoonfuls  of  clear  coffee  to  the 
starch.  Run  through  the  starch,  squeeze,  roll  up  in  towels,  and  clap  each  piece 
separately  until  dry.  Pull  gently  into  shape  from  time  to  time  and  pin  upon 
the  ironing  board.  When  dry  press  between  tissue  paper  with  a hot  iron. 
Punch  the  openings  and  pick  each  loop  on  the  edge  with  a large  pin  until  it 
looks  like  new. 

180.  To  Bleach  Muslin. — For  fifteen  yardsr  of  muslin  dissolve  one-half 
pound  of  chloride  of  lime  in  a quart  of  rain  water.  Soak  the  muslin  over 
night  in  warm  rain  water.  Wring  out  the  cloth  and  put  in  another  half 
tub  of  warm  rain  water  in  which  the  solution  of  lime  has  been  poured.  Leave 
it  in  this  for  about  twenty  minutes  but  lift  up  cloth  for  an  airing  every  few 
minutes.  Rinse  in  clear  rain  water.  Will  not  injure  the  cloth. 

181.  To  Wash  Lace  Curtains. — Carefully  shake  out  all  the  dust  and 
put  the  curtains  into  tepid  water  in  which  is  dissolved  a little  soda  and 
without  soaking  wash  at  once  in  several  waters.  Rinse  in  water  that  has 
been  well  blued ; also  blue  the  boiled  starch  deeply  and  squeeze,  but  do  not 
wring,  the  curtains.  If  you  have  no  curtain  frames,  some  sheets  may  be  pinned 
on  the  carpet  in  a vacant  room  and  the  curtains  pinned  to  them.  Have  the 
curtains  stretched  to  same  size  as  before  washing.  In  a few  hours  they  will 
be  dry  and  ready  to  put  up.  The  curtains  should  not  be  soaked  and  the  wash- 
ing and  stretching  should  be  done  as  quickly  as  possible  for  curtains  shrink 
rapidly.  They  should  be  measured  before  washing  so  they  may  be  stretched 
to  the  same  size. 

182.  To  Keep  Cranberries. — Put  them  into  a keg  of  water  and  they 
may  be  kept  all  winter. 

183.  To  Keep  Celery. — Bury  it  in  dry  sand. 

184.  To  Keep  Onions. — The  best  way  is  to  spread  them  over  the  floor. 

185.  To  Keep  Turnips. — Bury  them  deep  in  the  ground  and  they  will 

keep  until  spring. 

186.  To  Keep  Lemons — They  will  keep  and  also  be  more  juicy  if  kept 
covered  with  cold  water.  The  water  should  be  changed  every  week. 

187.  To  Keep  Parsnips  and  Salsify. — Unless  the  climate  is  very  severe 
they  should  be  left  in  the  ground  all  winter,  otherwise  they  should  be  buried 
in  a deep  pit  in  the  garden. 

188.  To  Keep  Parsley  Green  and  Fresh. — Make  a strong,  boiling  hot 

pickle  of  salt  and  water  and  keep  it  in  this  for  use.  If  wanted  for  soups  and 

stuffing,  hang  it  up  in  bunches  in  a dry  attic,  with  the  blossoms  down. 

189.  Whitewash  for  Cellars. — Add  an  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  to  a gallon 
of  whitewash  or  add  copperas  to  ordinary  whitewash  until  it  is  yellow.  Cop- 
peras is  a disinfectant  and  will  drive  away  vermin.  Carbolic  acid  will  prevent 
the  odors  which  taint  milk  and  meat. 

190.  To  Keep  Cellars  Clean.  — Remove  all  vegetables  as  soon  as  they 
begin  to  decay  and  ventilate  well.  Sprinkle  with  chloride  of  lime,  which  is 
a disinfectant. 

191.  To  Keep  All  Kinds  of  Herbs. — Just  before  or  while  the  herbs  are 
in  blossom  gather  them  on  a dry  day,  lie  in  bundles  and  hang  up  with  the 


“ WPIAT  TO  DO  ” AND  “ HOW  TO  DO  IT.” 


209 


blossoms  downward.  When  they  are  perfectly  dry  those  that  are  to  be  used 
as  medicine  should  be  wrapped  in  paper  and  kept  from  the  air  while  those 
that  are  to  be  used  in  cooking  should  have  the  leaves  picked  off,  pounded, 
sifted  fine  and  corked  tightly  in  bottles. 

192.  To  Keep  Cabbages. — Cut  them  off  near  the  head  and  carry  to  cellar 
with  leaves  on,  break  off  the  leaves  and  pack  the  cabbages  in  a light  box 
with  the  stems  upward.  When  the  box  is  nearly  full  cover  with  loose  leaves 
and  put  the  lid  on  to  keep  rats  out.  They  should  be  kept  in  a dry  cellar.* 

193.  To  Keep  Potatoes. — They  should  be  kept  in  a cool,  dark  place. 
When  old  and  likely  to  sprout,  put  them  into  a basket  and  lower  them  for 
a minute  or  two  into  boiling  water.  Let  them  dry  and  put  in  sacks.  This 
destroys  the  germs  without  injuring  the  potato  and  allows  it  to  keep  its  flavor 
until  late. 

194.  The  Temperature  at  Which  Vegetables  Should  be  Kept. — Vege- 
tables should  be  kept  at  as  low  a temperature  as  possible  without  freezing. 
Apples  will  stand  a very  low  temperature  but  sweet  potatoes  should  have 
a dry  and  warm  atmosphere  and  should  be  kept  well  packed  in  dry  leaves. 
Squashes  should  be  kept  in  a dry  place  and  as  cool  as  possible  without 
freezing. 

195.  To  Keep  Peas  for  Winter  Use. — Shell  them  and  put  into  boiling 
water  with  a little  salt  added,  boil  for  five  minutes.  Drain  in  a colander  and 
afterwards  on  a cloth,  then  place  in  air-tight  bottles.  When  used  they  should 
be  boiled  until  tender  and  seasoned  with  butter. 

196.  To  Keep  Apples. — Apples  are  usually  kept  on  open  shelves  where 
any  that  begin  decaying  may  be  removed  immediately.  Sometimes  they  are 
packed  in  layers  of  dry  sand  but  care  should  be  taken  that  they  do  not  touch 
each  other.  They  may  also  be  packed  thus  in  any  grain,  such  as  oats,  barley, 
etc.  If  the  apples  are  very  choice,  each  one  should  be  wrapped  separately  in 
paper  and  packed  in  a box. 

197.  To  Keep  Grapes. — The  simplest  way  is  to  keep  them  in  drawers 
or  boxes  which  hold  about  twenty-five  pounds  each,  and  pile  them  one  above 
another.  A better  way  is  to  hang  a barrel  hoop  from  the  ceiling  by  three 
cords ; seal  the  stem  with  sealing  wax,  attach  a wire  to  the  small  end  of  the 
bunch  and  hang  on  the  hoop,  taking  care  that  no  two  bunches  touch.  The 
imperfect  grapes  should  previously  have  been  picked  off.  The  room  should 
not  be  too  moist  and  yet  not  so  dry  as  to  wither  the  grapes  and  it  should  be 
free  from  frost. 

198.  To  Keep  Vegetables. — If  they  are  to  be  kept  a long  time  they  should 
be  pulled  on  a dry  day  and  the  tops  should  be  cut  off  and  trimmed.  Pack 
them  in  layers  in  barrels  or  boxes  with  moss  between  and  over  them.  The 
moss  keeps  them  from  shriveling  and  yet  keeps  out  any  excess  of  moisture. 

199.  Mucilage. — Dissolve  three  ounces  of  gum  arabic  by  putting  it  into 
one-half  pint  of  cold  water  and  stirring  frequently. 

200.  To  Remove  Coffee  Stains. — Mix  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a little 
water  that  is  slightly  warm  and  use  it  on  the  stain  like  soap.  If  the  stains  have 
been  on  for  some  time  a little  alcohol  should  be  added  to  the  egg  and  water. 

201.  To  Restore  Feathers. — Sprinkle  a little  salt  on  a hot  stove  and  hold 
the  plume  in  the  fumes  for  a few  minutes. 

202.  To  Clean  Feathers. — Pour  boiling  water  over  some  white  curd  soap 
which  has  been  cut  into  small  pieces  and  add  a little  pearlash.  When  dis- 
solved and  cool  enough  for  the  hand,  put  the  feathers  into  it  and  draw  them 

2—14 


210 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PIOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


through  the  hand  until  all  the  dirt  is  squeezed  out,  then  pass  them  through 
a clean  lather  with  bluing  in  it.  Rinse  in  cold  water  with  blue  to  give  them 
a good  color.  Shake  the  water  off  by  striking  them  against  the  hand,  then 
dry  them  by  shaking  near  a fire.  To  clean  black  feathers  use  water  and  gall 
and  wash  and  dry  in  like  manner. 

203.  To  Curl  Feathers. — When  nearly  dry  draw  each  flue  or  fibre  over 
the  edge  of  a blunt  knife,  turning  it  the  way  you  want  it  to  curl ; if  the  feather 
is  to  be  flat,  press  it  between  the  leaves  of  a book. 

204.  Magic  Annihilator. — To  make  a gross  of  8-ounce  bottles  of  annihi- 
lator,  take  one  gallon  aqua  ammonia,  four  pounds  of  best  white  soap,  eight 
ounces  of  saltpeter  and  eight  gallons  of  soft  water.  Pour  the  water  over  the 
soap  which  has  previously  been  shaved  fine  and  boil  until  dissolved.  Let  it 
get  cold,  then  add  the  saltpeter  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Strain,  let  the  suds 
settle,  skim  off  the  dry  suds,  add  the  ammonia  and  bottle  and  cork  at  once. 

What  It  Will  Do. — It  will  remove  all  kinds  of  oil  and  grease  from  every 
description  of  wearing  apparel,  such  as  coats,  vests,  pants,  dress  goods,  car- 
pets, etc.,  and  will  not  injure  the  finest  laces  and  silks.  It  works  like  a charm 
when  used  as  a shampoo,  lathers  freely  and  removes  all  grease  and  dandruff. 
A cloth  wet  with  it  will  remove  every  particle  of  grease  from  door  knobs, 
window  sills,  etc.  It  will  remove  paint  from  a board  no  matter  how  dry 
or  hard  the  paint  may  be  and  will  not  injure  the  finest  textures.  It  acts  on 
oil  or  grease,  turning  it  to  soap  which  may  be  washed  out  with  cold  water. 
Nothing  can  beat  it  for  cleaning  brass,  copper  and  silverware.  It  will  posi- 
tively exterminate  bed  bugs. 

Directions  for  Using. — To  remove  grease  spots  pour  some  of  the  Magic 
Annihilator  upon  both  sides  of  the  article  to  be  cleaned  and  rub  well  with  a 
clean  sponge.  If  the  grease  upon  carpets  and  coarse  goods  is  hard  and  dry, 
use  a stiff  brush  and  afterwards  wash  out  with  clear,  cold  water.  One  appli- 
cation is  all  that  is  ever  required  to  remove  fresh  grease  spots  but  two  ap- 
plications may  occasionally  be  necessary  to  remove  old  spots.  For  a shampoo  ^ 
mix  the  Annihilator  with  an  equal  quantity  of  water  and  apply  to  the  hair 
with  a stiff  brush,  rub  well  into  the  pores  and  wash  out  with  clear  water. 
It  will  give  the  hair  a gloss  like  silk.  For  cleaning  silver,  brass  and  copper 
mix  a little  whitening  with  a small  quantity  of  the  Annihilator,  apply  to  the 
metal  and  rub  briskly  with  a rag.  Apply  it  to  beds  and  other  places  where 
they  frequent  and  you  will  soon  be  rid  of  the  bugs.  Many  other  uses  will 
be  found  for  the  Magic  Annihilator. 

205.  To  Remove  Sealing  Wax. — Apply  either  alcohol  or  naphtha  to 
the  spots  with  a camel’s-hair  brush. 

206.  To  Remove  Tar. — Scrape  off  all  the  tar  possible  and  then  thor- 
oughly wet  the  place  with  either  melted  lard  or  good  salad  oil  and  let  it 
remain  for  twenty-four  hours;  if  woolen  or  silk,  take  out  the  grease  with 
either  spirits  of  wine  or  ether;  if  cotton  or  linen,  wash  out  in  strong,  warm 
soap  suds. 

207.  To  Make  Bluing  for  Clothes. — Powder  one  ounce  of  soft  Prussian 
blue  and  put  it  into  a bottle  with  a quart  of  clear  rain  water,  then  add  one- 
fourth  ounce  of  oxalic  acid.  Use  a teaspoonful  for  a large  washing. 

208.  Patent  Soap. — Three  pounds  grease,  three  pints  salsoda,  one-half 
pint  turpentine,  two  pounds  resin  soap,  forty  gallons  water;  boil  one  hour. 
This  makes  a great  soap. 

209.  Brilliant  Self-Shining  Stove  Polish. — Take  black  lead  (plumbago). 


“ WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  ‘‘  HOW  TO  DO  IT.” 


211 


finely  pulverized,  and  put  into  2-ounce  wooden  boxes;  label  them  neatly  and 
retail  for  10  or  15  cents  per  box,  or  wholesale  at  $6,00  per  hundred.  It  costs 
three  cents  per  box  to  prepare. 

Directions. — This  polish  requires  no  mixing  which  is  so  disagreeable 
to  the  housewife.  Dip  a damp  woolen  cloth  into  the  box  and  apply  to  the 
stove,  then  polish  with  a dry  cloth.  It  will  give  a very  beautiful  polish. 
Stove  polish  is  a necessity  in  every  home  and  if  you  have  the  best,  as  this  is, 
you  will  make  a sale  at  every  house.  Step  up  and  polish  a small  place  on 
the  stove  and  the  sale  is  made.  If  the  stove  is  not  convenient,  use  a piece  of 
wood,  a sheet  of  paper,  a potato  or  almost -any  article  and  you  will  have  a 
lustre  like  a burnished  mirror.  This  is  a great  invention  and  will  make  money 
for  those  who  push  the  sale. 

210.  To  Clean  Gold  Chains,  Etc. — Let  the  article  lay  in  a solution  of 
caustic  potash  until  all  the  dirt  is  removed. 

211.  To  Kill  Carpet  Bugs. — Put  one  tablespoonful  of  corrosive  sublimate 
into  a quart  of  hot  water  and  saturate  the  floors  and  cracks  in  the  walls. 
If  the  carpet  is  to  be  sponged  use  a weaker  solution.  It  will  be  found  a sure 
treatment. 

212.  To  Sweeten  Rancid  Butter. — Use  15  drops  of  chloride  of  lime  to  a 
pint  of  cold  water  and  wash  the  butter  thoroughly  with  it  until  it  has  touched 
every  particle ; then  work  the  butter  over  in  clear,  cold  water. 

213.  Liquid  Glue. — Dissolve  half  a pound  of  best  glue  in  three-fourths 
pint  of  water  and  add  one-half  pint  of  vinegar.  This  glue  is  always  ready  for 
use  without  warming. 

214.  Concrete. — Add  15  barrows  of  sand  to  8 barrows  of  slacked  lime 
that  is  well  deluged  with  water.  Do  not  use  river  or  beach  sand  as  it 
absorbs  moisture.  Mix  to  a creamy  consistency  and  add  60  barrows  of  coarse 
gravel  and  work  well.  Stones  9 or  10  inches  in  diameter  may  be  put  into 
this  mixture  and  it  will  become  as  hard  as  rock. 

215.  Patent  Blacking. — One  gallon  alcohol,  1%  pounds  gum  shellac,  1 
ounce  sulphuric  acid;  let  stand  for  48  hours,  then  add  pound  ivory  black. 
Let  stand  24  hours,  then  carefully  pour  of¥  the  top.  This  is  for  the  polishing 
of  all  kinds  of  leather  and  is  waterproof.  A four-ounce  bottle  retails  for  $1.00 
and  $50.00  was  the  original  cost  of  this  recipe.  Of  course  it  may  be  made  in 
smaller  quantities  by  using  the  same  proportions. 

216.  Axle  Grease. — One  pound  tallow,  I/4  pound  black  lead,  % pound 
castor  oil;  melt  the  tallow;  add  the  other  ingredients  and  rub  all  together 
until  cold  and  well  mixed. 

217.  To  Find  the  Number  of  Bushels  in  a Bin. — Multiply  together  the 
three  dimensions  in  feet  to  get  the  number  of  cubic  feet  and  deduct  % and 
you  will  have  approximately  the  number  of  bushels  in  the  bin. 

218.  To  Measure  Hay. — Fifteen  to  eighteen  cubic  yards  of  hay  well 
settled  in  mows  or  stacks  make  a ton ; 20  to  25  cubic  yards  make  a ton  when 
loaded  on  a wagon  from  mow  or  stack ; 25  cubic  yards  of  dry  clover  make 
a ton.  To  find  the  number  of  tons  in  a mow  multiply  the  length,  width  and 
height  in  yards  and  divide  by  15  if  well  settled  and  by  18  if  not  so  well 
settled. 

219.  Apple  Tree  Louse. — Lime  and  tobacco  juice  mixed  together  will 
kill  them. 

220.  Army  Worm. — A ditch  around  the  field  to  be  protected  will  arrest 
their  progress  so  that  they  may  be  killed  by  covering  with  earth,  by  crushing 


212 


'rilE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


with  rollers,  pouring  coal  oil  in  ditch  or  burning  straw  over  them.  The  side 
of  the  ditch  next  the  field  should  be  perpendicular  or  sloping  under  so  they 
cannot  easily  crawl  out. 

221.  Bark  Lice. — Use  a strong  lye  made  from  wood  ashes  or  diluted 
soft  soap  or  a mixture  of  lime,  whitewash  and  kerosene.  If  the  latter  is  used 
there  should  be  a pint  of  kerosene  to  a gallon  of  whitewash. 

222.  Apple  Tree  Borers. — During  the  spring  or  early  summer  the  trees 
should  be  washed  with  strong  soap  suds  to  kill  the  borers. 

223.  Cinch  Bugs. — They  may  be  destroyed  with  a mixture  of  soap  suds 
and  kerosene.  Make  the  suds  by  using  one  pound  of  soap  to  ten  gallons  of 
water,  then  use  equal  parts  of  the  suds  and  kerosene  to  make  the  emulsion. 

224.  Colorado  Beetle  or  Potato  Bug. — Dust  the  vines  with  Paris  green, 
London  purple  or  carbonate  of  lime. 

225.  Corn  Moth. — Fill  up  all  cracks  and  sweep  the  floors  and  walls  clean 
before  storing  the  corn.  To  destroy  the  moths,  fill  all  cracks  and  then  sprinkle 
the  floor  with  a mixture  of  strong  white  wine  vinegar  and  salt  before  laying 
up  the  corn.  If  the  moth  has  deposited  its  eggs  on  the  grain  salt  may  be  mixed 
with  it. 

226.  Grain  Weevil. — The  granary  should  be  fumigated  thoroughly  with 
burning  sulphur  before  the  grain  is  stored  and  again  in  about  two  months. 

227.  Caterpillars. — These  may  be  destroyed  with  powdered  hellebore. 

228.  Hessian  Fly. — Quicklime  scattered  over  the  field  immediately  after 
the  grain  is  cut  will  destroy  the  pupae.  It  is  well  to  thresh  as  soon  as  possible 
after  the  grain  is  cut  then  to  scatter  the  straw  over  the  stubble  and  burn.  An- 
other way  is  to  turn  the  cattle  on  the  young  wheat  while  the  ground  is  yet 
frozen  and  let  them  eat  the  wheat  close  to  the  ground. 

229.  Strawberry  Worms. — Poultry  will  destroy  them.  They  should  be 
turned  into  the  patch  before  the  berries  are  formed.  Spray  the  plants  with 
one  pound  of  white  hellebore  in  twenty  gallons  of  water. 

230.  To  Cut  or  Break  Glass  in  Any  Shape. — File  a notch  in  the  edge  of 
the  glass  at  the  place  you  wish  to  begin  to  break  from ; then  put  a red  hot 
iron  on  the  notch  and  draw  it  in  the  direction  you  wish  the  glass  to  break. 
If  the  iron  be  drawn  slowly  a crack  will  follow  it.  Another  way  is  to  hold 
the  glass  level  under  water  and  cut  with  a pair  of  shears. 

231.  To  Bore  Holes  in  Glass. — Any  hard  steel  tool  will  easily  cut  glass 
if  it  be  kept  moist  with  camphor  dissolved  in  turpentine.  A drill  may  be 
used  or,  if  that  be  not  available,  the  tool  may  be  held  in  the  hand.  A window 
glass  may  be  easily  sawed  with  a watch  spring  saw  if  this  solution  be  used. 

232.  To  Clean  Tobacco  Pipes. — Pour  alcohol  into  the  bowl  and  allow 
it  to  run  out  of  the  stem.  This  will  thoroughly  clean  and  sweeten  the  pipe. 

233.  To  Petrify  Wood. — Mix  equal  parts  of  rock  alum,  gem  salt,  white 
vinegar,  chalk  and  peebles  powder;  after  the  ebullition  has  ceased  throw  any 
piece  of  wood  or  other  porous  substance  into  the  solution  and  it  will  petrify. 

234.  To  Remove  Blood  Stains. — Steep  the  article  in  lukewarm  water. 
If  pepsin  is  at  hand  apply  it  after  first  softening  the  spots  in  lukewarm  water. 

• 235.  To  Remove  Tar,  Wagon  Grease,  Mixtures  of  Fat,  Carbon  and 

Acetic  Acid. — If  the  spots  be  on  white  goods  apply  soap  and  oil  of  turpentine, 
alternating  with  streams  of  water.  If  the  spots  are  on  colored  cottons  or 
woolens,  rub  in  with  lard ; let  it  lie ; soap ; let  lie ; and  proceed,  alternating  with 
oil  of  turpentine  and  water.  Treat  silks  the  same  only  use  benzine  in  place 
of  turpentine. 


“ WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  “ HOW  TO  DO  IT/^ 


213 


236.  Black  Ink,  Copying  or  Writing  Fluid. — Rain  water,  one  gallon; 
brown  sugar,  one-eighth  pound ; gum  arabic,  one-eighth  pound ; powdered  nut- 
galls,  three-eighths  pound;  clean  copperas,  one-eighth  pound;  bruise  and  mix, 
then  let  stand  for  10  days,  shaking  occasionally;  strain.  If  not  used  as  a copy- 
ing ink  but  one-fourth  of  the  sugar  or  gum  is  needed  as  it  will  then  flow  more 
freely.  This  ink  is  fine  for  records  and  deeds  for  it  may  be  read  hundreds 
of  years  hence. 


DYEING  AND  COLORING. 

General  Remarks. — Every  article  to  be  dyed  should  be  perfectly  clean. 
They  should  be  washed  thoroughly  with  soap  and  then  rinsed.  To  prevent 
spotting,  the  goods  should  be  dipped  into  warm  water  just  before  they  are 
put  into  the  various  coloring  preparations.  After  the  article  is  dyed  it  should 
be  aired  awhile,  then  well  rinsed  and  hung  up  to  dry.  Cotton  goods  should 
first  be  bleached  if  they  are  to  be  dyed  a light  color.  Never  wring  silk  or 
merino  dresses.  Use  soft  water  and  where  the  quantity  is  not  mentioned 
enough  should  be  used  to  well  cover  the  goods. 

COTTON  GOODS. 

237.  Black. — For  5 pounds  goods  take  3 pounds  (wood  and  bark  to- 
gether) of  sumac  and  boil  one-half  hour  and  let  the  goods  steep  in  this  for 
12  hours;  then  dip  for  half  an  hour  in  lime  water  and  let  drip  for  an  hour; 
now  add  half  a pound  of  copperas  to  the  sumac  liquor  and  dip  the  goods 
again  in  this  for  an  hour  and  then  for  one-fourth  hour  in  the  lime  water. 
Make  another  dye  by  boiling  2%  pounds  of  logwood  for  an  hour  and  dip  the 
goods  in  this  for  three  hours,  then  add  2 ounces  bi-chromate  of  potash  and 
dip  for  another  hour.  Wash  the  goods  in  cold  water  and  dry  in  the  shade. 

238.  Brown  for  Cotton,  Woolen  or  Silk. — For  coloring  5 pounds  of  goods 
dissolve  two  ounces  of  alum  and  one  pound  of  catechu  in  enough  hot  water 
to  wet  the  goods.  Put  this  solution  into  a tin  boiler  or  a brass  kettle  on 
the  stove  and  put  in  the  goods  when  it  is  boiling  hot  and  remove  from  the 
fire.  You  should  have  ready  4 ounces  of  bi-chromate  of  potash  dissolved  in 
hot  water  in  a wooden  pail.  Drain  the  goods  from  the  catechu  and  then  dip 
them  alternately  into  the  bi-chromate  of  potash  and  catechu  until  of  the 
desired  shade. 

239.  Sky  Blue  for  Cotton  or  Silk. — Dissolve  two  ounces  of  blue  vitriol 
in  one  gallon  of  water  and  dip  the  goods  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  put  through 
lime  water. 

240.  Blue. — For  5 pounds  of  goods  dissolve  4 ounces  of  copperas  in  3 
or  4 gallons  of  water  and  soak  the  goods  thoroughly,  then  drain  and  put  them 
into  a solution  of  2 ounces  of  prussiate  of  potash  in  3 or  4 gallons  of  water. 
Lift  the  goods  and  put  them  to  drain,  then  pour  I/2  ounce  oil  of  vitriol  into  the 
prussiate  of  potash  solution,  stirring  carefully  and  pouring  in  but  a few  drops 
at  a time.  Put  the  goods  in  this  solution  until  of  the  desired  shade  then  rinse 
in  clear  water  and  hang  up  to  dry. 

241.  Yellow. — For  5 pounds  of  goods  dissolve  1 pound  of  sugar  of  lead 
in  enough  water  to  thoroughly  wet  the  goods  and  in  the  same  quantity  of 
water  in  another  vessel  dissolve  % pound  of  bi-chromate  of  potash.  Dip  the 


214 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


goods  well  and  drain  in  each  alternately  until  of  the  desired  shade,  then 
rinse  and  hang  up  to  dry. 

242.  Orange. — Color  the  goods  yellow  as  given  elsewhere  but  before 
rinsing  dip  them  into  strong,  hot  lime  water. 

243.  Green. — First  color  blue  as  given  elsewhere,  then  proceed  as  in 
yellow,  also  given  elsewhere. 

244.  Red. — Put  % teacupful  of  muriate  of  tin  into  enough  water  to  cover 
the  goods  well,  bring  to  a boil,  put  in  the  goods  and  leave  for  an  hour,  stir- 
ring often,  then  remove  them  and  empty  the  kettle.  Put  1 pound  of  nic- 
wood  into  the  kettle  with  clean  water  and  steep  for  half  an  hour  at  hand 
heat,  then  put  in  the  goods  and  slowly  increase  the  heat  for  an  hour  but 
do  not  boil.  Air  the  goods  and  dip  an  hour  as  before.  Wash  without  soap. 

Vv^OOLEN  GOODS. 

245.  Chrome  Black. — For  5 pounds  of  goods  dissolve  6 ounces  of  blue 
vitriol  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  the  goods.  Dip  the  goods  45  minutes, 
airing  frequently,  then  remove.  Make  a dye  by  boiling  3 pounds  of  logwood 
for  half  an  hour ; dip  the  goods  for  45  minutes,  air  and  dip  again  for  the  same 
length  of  time.  Wash  the  goods  in  strong  suds.  The  sun  will  not  fade  this. 

246.  Brown. — Color  the  same  as  for  cotton  goods. 

247.  Blue. — For  2 pounds  of  goods  take  sufficient  water  to  cover  and  add 
5 ounces  of  alum  and  3 ounces  of  cream  of  tartar  and  boil  the  goods  in  this 
for  an  hour.  Now  boil  the  goods,  until  the  color  suits,  in  warm  water  con- 
taining more  or  less  extract  of  indigo,  according  to  the  color  desired. 

248.  Yellow. — For  5 pounds  of  goods  make  a solution  by  adding  2 ounces 
of  alum  and  3 ounces  of  bi-chromate  of  potash  to  enough  water  to  color  the 
goods  and  boil  them  in  this  for  half  an  hour;  lift  and  air  until  well  cooled 
and  drained,  then  work  for  half  an  hour  in  a bath  with  5 pounds  of  fustic. 
Wash  and  hang  up  to  dry. 

249.  Green. — For  each  pound  of  goods  put  3%  ounces  of  alum  and  1 
pound  of  fustic  into  sufficient  water  to  cover  goods ; steep  until  the  strength 
is  out  before  putting  in  the  goods ; then  soak  until  a good  yellow  color  is  ob- 
tained ; then  remove  the  chips  and  add  extract  of  indigo  or  chemic  until  of 
the  desired  color. 

250.  Scarlet. — For  one  pound  of  goods  take  sufficient  water  to  cover 
and  boil  in  it  % ounce  of  pulverized  cochineal,  % ounce  cream  of  tartar  and 
2%  ounces  muriate  of  tin ; put  in  the  goods  and  work  briskly  for  10  or  15 
minutes,  then  stir  goods  slowly  while  boiling  1%  hours.  Wash  and  hang  in 
the  shade  to  dry. 

251.  Crimson. — Make  a bath  of  6 ounces  of  dry  cochineal,  1 pound  cochi- 
neal paste,  1 pound  of  tartar  and  1 pint  of  proto-chloride  of  tin.  Work  the 
goods  in  this  bath  for  an  hour,  wash  out  and  hang  up  to  dry. 

252.  Orange. — For  5 pounds  of  goods  take  sufficient  water  to  cover,  4 
ounces  argal,  6 tablespoonfuls  muriate  of  tin ; boil  and  dip  1 hour,  then  add 
1 cup  of  madder  and  dip  for  half  an  hour.  A much  brighter  color  will  be 
obtained  by  using  2 ounces  of  cochineal  instead  of  the  madder. 

253.  Pink. — For  3 pounds  of  goods  use  3 ounces  of  alum ; boil  and  dip 
the  goods  for  an  hour;  then  add  to  the  solution  4 ounces  cream  of  tartar  and 
1 ounce  of  pulverized  cochineal  and  dip  the  goods,  while  boiling,  until  the 
desired  shade  is  obtained. 


“ WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  “ HOW  TO  DO  IT  ” 


215 


SILK  GOODS. 

254.  Black. — For  5 pounds  of  goods  make  a dye  by  boiling  3 pounds  of 
logwood  in  enough  water  to  cover  goods.  Work  the  goods  in  bi-chromate  of 
potash  which  is  not  quite  to  the  boiling  point,  then  dip  them  in  the  logwood 
solution  in  the  same  way. 

255.  Brown. — Color  the  same  as  for  cotton  and  woolen  goods  given  else- 
where. 

256.  Sky  Blue. — Proceed  as  for  cotton  goods  given  elsewhere. 

257.  Light  Blue. — Dissolve  % tablespoonful  of  alum  in  a cup  of  warm 
water  and  add  to  a gallon  of  cold  water,  then  add  a teaspoonful  of  chemic  at 
a time  until  the  desired  shade  is  obtained.  The  more  chemic  is  used,  the 
darker  will  the  color  be. 

258.  Orange. — For  one  pound  of  goods  use  a pound  each  of  soda  and 
annotto ; repeat  if  desired. 

259.  Green. — For  1 pound  of  goods  boil  8 ounces  of  yellow  oak  bark  for 
% hour ; turn  off  the  liquor  from  the  bark  and  add  6 ounces  of  alum ; let  stand 
until  cold ; while  this  is  being  made  color  the  goods  in  the  blue  dye-tub  a light 
blue;  dry  and  wash;  then  dip  in  the  oak  and  alum  dye.  Warm  the  dye  a 
little  if  it  does  not  take  well. 

260.  Yellow. — For  1 pound  of  goods  make  a solution  of  % ounce  sugar 
of  lead  and  3 ounces  alum  and  let  the  goods  stand  over  night  in  it;  take  out 
and  drain.  Make  another  dye  with  1 pound  of  fustic;  dip  in  this  until  the 

'desired  color  is  obtained. 

261.  Crimson. — Dip  1 pound  of  goods  in  a solution  made  with  3 ounces 
of  alum.  This  should  be  at  hand  heat.  Take  out  and  drain  while  making 
a new  dye  by  boiling  for  10  minutes  2 ounces  of  bruised  nut-galls,  3 ounces 
cochineal  and  % ounce  of  cream  of  tartar  in  one  pail  of  water.  When  this  is  a 
little  cool,  begin  to  dip  the  goods,  raising  the  heat  to  a boil.  Dip  for  an  hour; 
wash  and  hang  up  to  dry. 


262.  A Quick  and  Easy  Way  to  Compute  Interest. — Allow  30  days  for 
each  month  and  multiply  the  amount  by  the  number  of  days. 

The  result  divided  by  60  gives  the  interest  at  6 per  cent. 

The  result  divided  by  45  gives  the  interest  at  8 per  cent. 

The  result  divided  by  40  gives  the  interest  at  9 per  cent. 

The  result  divided  by  36  gives  the  interest  at  10  per  cent. 

The  result  divided  by  30  gives  the  interest  at  12  per  cent. 

Example. — $200.00  for  3 months  and  10  days,  or  100  days,  is  20000 ; 
divided  by  40  gives  $5.00,  which  is  the  interest  at  9 per  cent;  or  divided  bv 
60  gives  $3,333,  interest  at  6 per  cent.  etc.  To  find  the  interest  at  5 per  cent, 
first  find  the  interest  at  6 per  cent,  then  deduct  1/6.  Or  add  1/6  to  find  the 
interest  at  7 per  cent.  etc. 

263.  To  Find  the  Number  of  Gallons  in  a Barrel  or  Cask. — Add  the 
greatest  and  the  smallest  diameters  in  inches  together  and  divide  by  2 and  this 
will  be  the  average  diameter.  Alultiply  this  number  by  itself,  then  by  the 
length  of  the  barrel  in  inches  and  then  by  34  and  cut  off  the  four  right-hand 
figures.  This  is  approximately  the  number  of  gallons. 

Example. — A cask  is  28  inches  in  diameter  at  the  head  and  32  inches  at 
the  bung  and  is  36  inches  in  length ; 28  plus  32  equals  60,  divided  by  2 equals 
30,  or  the  average  diameter;  30  times  30  equals  900;  36  times  900  equals  32400; 


21G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


34  times  32400  equals  1101600  and  cutting  off  the  four  right-hand  figures 
leaves  110  as  the  number  of  gallons. 

264.  To  Find  the  Number  of  Gallons  in  a Round  Tank. — Multiply  the 
diameter  in  feet  by  itself  (called  squaring  the  diameter),  multiply  the  product 
by  the  depth  in  feet,  then  multiply  by  6 and  the  result  is  the  approximate 
number  of  gallons  in  the  tank. 

Example. — A tank  is  5 feet  in  diameter  and  7 feet  deep;  5 times  5 equals 
25,  7 times  25  equals  175,  6 times  175  equals  1050  gallons. 

265.  How  to  Find  the  Number  of  Common  Bricks  in  a Wall  or  Building. 
— Multiply  together  the  length,  height  and  thickness  in  feet  and  multiply 
this  result  by  20  and  you  will  have  the  number  of  common  bricks  in  the  wall. 
Find  the  number  in  each  wall  and  add  these  together  and  you  will  have  the 
number  in  the  building. 

266.  Table  of  Avoirdupois  Weight. — 

437%  grains  equal  1 ounce. 

16  ounces  equal  1 pound. 

25  pounds  equal  1 quarter. 

2000  pounds  equal  1 ton. 

2240  pounds  equal  1 long  ton. 

267.  Miscellaneous  Weights. — 

100  lbs.  nails  equal  1 keg. 

196  lbs.  flour  equal  1 barrel. 

200  lbs.  beef  or  pork  equal  1 barrel. 

280  lbs.  N.  Y.  salt  equal  1 barrel. 

268..  Table  of  Troy  Weight. — 

24  grains  make  1 pennyweight. 

20  pennyweights  make  1 ounce. 

12  ounces  make  1 pound. 

480  grains  make  1 ounce. 

The  troy  pound  contains  5760  grains  while  the  avoirdupois  pound  contains  7000 
grains.  If  a merchant  sells  you  a pound  of  tea  by  troy  weight  he  cheats  you,  but  if  he 
sells  you  an  ounce  by  troy  weight  he  cheats  himself  out  of  42%  grains. 

269.,  Table  of  Apothecaries  Weight. — 

1 drop  equals  1 grain. 

20  grains  make  1 scruple,  which  is  equal  to  % teaspoonful. 

3 scruples  make  1 drachm,  which  is  equal  to  1 teaspoonful. 

8 drachms  make  1 ounce,  which  is  equal  to  2 tablespoonfuls. 

12  ounces  make  1 pound. 

270.  Table  of  Fluid  Measures. — 

60  drops  make  1 fluid  drachm,  or  1 small  teaspoonful. 

8 fluid  drachms  make  1 fluid  ounce,  or  2 tablespoonfuls,  or  % gill. 

16  fluid  ounces  make  1 pint,  or  4 gills. 

1 pint  equals  1 pound  in  weight  except  with  Ether,  Glycer- 

ine, Sulphuric  acid.  Chloroform  and  a few 
others. 

271.  A Handy  Table.— 

1 tablespoonful  equals  4 teaspoonfuls. 

1 teacup  equals  4 fluid  ounces. 

1 coffee  cup  equals  6 fluid  ounces. 

1 wine-glass  equals  from  2 to  4 tablespoonfuls. 

272.  Table  of  Liquid  Measure.— 

4 gills  make  1 pint. 

2 pints  make  1 quart. 

4 quarts  make  1 gallon. 


“ WHAT  TO  DO  ” AND  “ HOW  TO  DO  IT/’ 


217 


273.  How  Clothes  Are  Cleaned  by  Those  Who  Make  it  a Business. — In 
cleaning  establishments,  silks  and  woolen  clothes  are  immersed  in  gasoline 
and  dipped  up  and  down,  and  especially  the  soiled  parts  are  rubbed  with  ivory 
soap.  They  are  then  rinsed  in  clean  gasoline.  The  odor  is  removed  by  shak- 
ing for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  or  by  hanging  on  a line  where  there  is  a 
good  breeze.  Don’t  use  gasoline  near  a light  or  stove. 

274.  To  Clean  Dark  Furs. — Put  some  new  bran  into  a pan  on  the  stove 
and  heat  very  hot,  stirring  so  as  not  to  let  burn.  Rub  this  thoroughly  into 
the  fur  several  times  then  shake  and  brush  it  till  it  is  free  from  dust. 

275.  To  Clean  Light  Furs. — Lay  the  fur  upon  a table  and  with  a flannel 
rub  it  with  bran  that  is  slightly  moistened  with  warm  water.  Rub  until 
dry  then  with  book  muslin  apply  dry  bran.  Dry  flour  will  do  instead  of  the 
wet  bran.  When  through  rubbing  with  the  bran  or  flour  rub  magnesia  the 
wrong  way  into  the  fur  then  shake  and  brush. 

276.  To  Clean  Straw  Hats. — First  sponge  the  hat  with  a mixture  of  21/2 
drachms  sodium  hyposulphite,  1 drachm  glycerine,  2%  drachms  alcohol,  2^ 
ounces  of  water;  then  hang  the  hat  in  the  cellar  or  other  moist  room  for 
24  hours ; then  apply  a solution  of  % drachm  citric  acid,  2%  drachms  alcohol, 
3 ounces  of  water  and  again  hang  in  a moist  room  for  24  hours.  The  hat 
should  then  be  gone  over  with  a flatiron  that  is  not  too  hot. 

277.  Cut  Worms. — Make  a little  ring  of  either  lime  or  wood  ashes  about 
the  plant  as  a protection  against  cut  worms. 

278.  Onion  Maggots. — The  best  known  remedy  is  to  put  .chimney  soot 
in  the  drills. 

279.  Plant  Lice. — A tea  made  from  tobacco,  or  tobacco  smoke,  will  kill 
them, 

280.  Squash  Bugs. — Put  some  white  shingles  on  the  ground  under  the 
vines  and  the  bugs  will  collect  under  them  and  may  be  destroyed  in  the 
morning. 

281.  Slugs. — In  England  the  gardeners  drop  a handful  of  bran  every 
8 or  10  feet  along  the  garden  walks.  The  slugs  collect  on  these  little  heaps 
of  bran  and  may  be  swept  up  in  the  morning  with  a broom  and  dust  pan. 

282.  Scale. — Boil  1 gallon  of  barley  in  water,  pour  off  the  liquid  (the 
grain  will  do  to  feed  the  chickens)  and  add  quicklime  to  it  until  about  as 
thick  as  paint.  When  cold  add  1 pound  of  lampblack  and  mix  for  a long 
time  then  add  % pound  flowers  of  sulphur  and  1 pint  of  alcohol.  Brush 
the  bark  of  the  tree  with  a stiff  brush  to  remove  the  moss  and  then  apply 
the  liquid  with  a paint  brush. 

283.  Canker  Worms. — Spread  tar,  or  tar  and  molasses,  on  a cloth  and 
bind  about  the  trunk  of  the  tree  near  the  ground.  Do  this  early  in  the  spring 
and  the  female  worm  will  be  kept  from  crawling  up  the  tree.  Apply  kero- 
sene below  the  cloth  to  kill  the  eggs. 

284.  Grubs. — Apply  soap  to  the  trunks  of  the  apple  and  peach  trees  dur- 
ing May.  In  the  fall  cut  out  all  that  have  entered  the  bark. 

285.  Cucumber  Beetles. — About  the  only  way  to  keep  these  away  is  to 
cover  the  plants  with  netting. 

286.  Celery  Pest  or  Little  Negro  Bug. — Sprinkle  the  plants  with  a 
mixture  of  1 tablespoonful  of  crude  carbolic  acid  to  2 gallons  of  water.  If  pre- 
ferred, a teacupful  of  the  acid  may  be  mixed  with  a bushel  of  either  air- 
slacked  lime  or  land  plaster  and  the  plants  dusted  with  this„ 


318 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


HANDY  TABLES  FOR  COOKS. 

EGGS. 

8 large,  or  10  medium  sized,  eggs  equal  1 pound. 


BUTTER. 

1 lump  the  size  of  a medium  egg  equals  2 ounces. 

1 tablespoonful  of  soft  butter,  well  filled,  equals  1 ounce. 

4 heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  soft  butter  equal  1 teacupful. 

2 teacupfuls  of  packed  soft  butter  equal  1 pound. 

1 pint  of  well  packed  soft  butter  equals  1 pound. 

FLOUR. 

2 heaping  teaspoonfuls  equal  1 heaping  tablespoonful. 

2 heaping  tablespoonfuls  equal  1 ounce. 

5 heaping  tablespoonfuls  equal  1 teacupful. 

5 teacupfuls  of  sifted  flour  equal  1 pound. 

3%  level  teacupfuls  of  corn  meal  equal  1 quart. 

1 quart  of  sifted  flour  equals  1 pound. 


SUGAR.  " 

2 heaping  teaspoonfuls  equal  1 heaping  tablespoonful. 

1 heaping  tablespoonful  of  granulated,  best  brown,  or  A coffee  equals  1 ounce. 

2 heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  equal  1 ounce. 

2 heaping  teacupfuls  of  A coffee  equal  1 pound. 

2 level  teacupfuls  of  granulated  equal  1 pound. 

2 level  coffee-cupfuls  of  powdered  equal  1 pound. 

21/2  level  teacupfuls  of  best  brown  equal  1 pound. 

-2%  level  teacupfuls  of  powdered  equal  1 pound. 

1%  level  coffee-cupfuls  of  granulated  equal  1 pound. 

1 pint  of  A coffee  equals  12  ounces. 

1 heaping  pint  of  granulated  equals  14  ounces. 

1 quart  of  powdered  equals  1 pound  and  7 ounces. 

1 quart  of  granulated  equals  1 pound  and  9 ounces. 

1 quart  of  any  kind  equals  4 teacupfuls. 

1 teacupful  equals  8 fluid  ounces  or  2 gills. 

1 teacupful  or  16  tablespoonfuls  equal  % pint  or  2 gills. 

A common-sized  tumbler  holds  % pint. 


TIME  TABLE  FOR  COOKS. 


The  time  will  vary  with  the  quality  of  the  article, 
etc.  The  general  average  is  here  given.  Those 
marked  “ a ” minutes  to  pound. 

Apples,  sweet  and  mellow  

Apples,  sour  and  hard  

Asparagus  

Beans  with  green  corn 

Beans  (pod)  

Beef  

Beefsteak  

Beefsteak  


Time  of  Time  of 

How  Cooked.  Cooking.  Digestion. 

Hr.  Min.  Hr.  Min. 

Raw  1 50 

Raw  2 50 

Boiled  15  to  30  2 30 

Boiled  45  3 45 

Boiled  1 00  2 30 

Roasted  a 25  3 00 

Fried  15  4 00 

Broiled  15  3 00 


“ WHAT  TO  DO  ” 

AND  “ HOW  TO 

DO  IT/’ 

219 

Beef,  salted  

a 

36 

4 

15 

Bass,  fresh  

20 

3 

00 

Beets,  old  

4 

30 

4 

00 

Beets,  young  

2 

00 

3 

45 

Bread,  wheat  

1 

00 

3 

30 

Bread,  corn 

45 

3 

15 

Butter 

Melted 

3 

30 

Cabbage  

1 

00 

4 

30 

Cabbage  

2 

30 

Cabbap'e  and  vinegar 

2 

00 

Cauliflower  

Boiled 

1 to  2 

2 

30 

Cake,  sponge  

45 

2 

30 

Carrot,  orange 

1 

00 

3 

15 

Cheese,  old 

3 

30 

Codfish,  dry  and  whole 

a 

15 

2 

00 

Chicken  

1 

00 

3 

45 

Custard  (one  quart)  

3 

00 

2 

45 

Duck,  wild  

1 

00 

4 

50 

Duck,  tame  

1 

30 

4 

00 

Dumpling,  apple  

Boiled 

1 

00 

3 

00 

Eggs,  soft  

03 

3 

00 

Eggs,  hard  

10 

3 

30 

Eggs  

05 

3 

30 

Esrers  

2 

00 

Eowls,  domestic  

Roasted 

1 

00 

4 

00 

Fowls,  domestic  

Boiled 

1 

00 

4 

00 

Gelatine  

2 

30 

Goose,  wild  

a 

20 

2 

30 

Lamb  

a 

20 

2 

30 

Meat  and  vegetables  

30 

2 

30 

Milk  

Boiled 

2 

00 

Milk  

2 

15 

Mutton  

a 

25 

3 

15 

Mutton  

20 

3 

00 

Onions  

Boiled 

1 to  2 

3 

00 

Oysters  

05 

3 

30 

Oysters  

Roasted 

3 

15 

Pig’s  feet 

Soused 

1 

00 

Parsnips 

1 

00 

3 

00 

Pork  

a 

30 

5 

15 

Pork  

a 

25 

4 

30 

Pork  

4 

15 

Pork  

Fried 

4 

15 

Pork  

20 

3 

15 

Potatoes  

30 

3 

30 

Potatoes  

45 

3 

30 

Potatoes  

45 

2 

30 

Rice  

20 

1 

00 

Salmon,  fresh  

08 

1 

45 

Sausage  

20 

3 

30 

Sausage  

Fried 

20 

4 

00 

Soup,  chicken  

2 

00 

3 

00 

Soup,  vegetable  

1 

00 

4 

00 

Soup,  oyster  

Boiled 

3 

30 

Soup,  mutton  

3 

30 

3 

30 

Spinach  

Boiled 

1 to  2 

2 

30 

Tapioca  

1 

30 

2 

00 

Tomatoes  

1 

00 

2 

30 

Tomatoes  

30 

2 

30 

Trout  and  salmon,  fresh,  boiled  or  . . . 

Fried 

30 

1 

30 

Turkey,  boiled  or  

a 

20 

2 

30 

Turnips  

45 

3 

30 

Veal  

20 

4 

00 

Venison  Steak 

20 

1 

35 

230 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional  Recipes.) 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


221 


SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional  Recipes.) 


222 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional  Recipes.) 


CULINARY  INDEX 


For  Index  of  “The  People’s  Home  Recipes  for  Every-Day  Use”  see  page  226. 

MRS.  KIRK’S  DEPARTMENT. 


A 

Accurate  Records,  Home  Expenditures 

AND  2 


B 


Baking  6 

BEVERAGES  80 

Apple  Lemonade  85 

Chocolate  82 

Cocoa  83 

Drip  Coffee  82 

Elderberry  Wine  86 

Fruit  Punch  84 

Fruit  Syrups  83 

Ginger  Ale 83 

How  To  Make  Coffee  81 

Lemon  Syrup  84 

Mint  Lemonade  85 

Mint  Punch  85 

BREAD  MAKING 7 

Buckwheat  Cakes 13 

Clover  Leaf  Rolls  10 

Corn  Bread  10 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes  12 

Delicious  Brown  Bread 10 

English  Muffins  12 

Gluten  Bread  ii 

Graham  and  Date  Bread  9 

Graham  Bread  9 

Graham  Gems 13 

Pop  Overs  12 

Sour  Milk  Gingerbread  ii 

Very  Best  Bread  8 


CAKES — Continued. 

Lemon  Cookies 

Lemon  Sponge  Cake  

Maple  Cream  Filling  

Maple  Snow  Cake 

Marshmallow  Filling  

May  Cakes 

Mocha  Filling 

Sunshine  Cake  

Tea  Cakes  

White  Loaf  Cake  

CANNING  OF  FRUITS  AND  VEGE- 
TABLES   

Asparagus  and  String  Beans 

Canned  Pineapple  

Canning  Large  Fruits  (Peaches,  Pears, 
Apples,  Pineapples,  Quinces,  Etc.).. 

Corn  

Peas,  Lima  Beans  or  Beets  

Raspberries  and  All  Small  Fruits 

Tomatoes  

CHAFING  DISH  COOKERY 

Chicken  a la  King 

Chicken  Hollandaise  

Creamed  Oysters  

Oysters  with  Mushrooms  

Shrimp  Wiggle 

Shrimps  a la  Poulette  

Sweetbreads  Saute  with  French  Peas 

The  Queen’s  Toasted  Cheese  

Tomato  Rarebit  

Welsh  Rarebit 

Cooking,  Housekeeper’s  Science  of 

Cooking  Vegetables,  General  Time  for 
Creed,  Housekeeper’s  


18 

19 

22 

15 

21 

16 
21 
21 

17 
17 

90 
92 
94 

92 

93 
93 

91 


90 

89 

87 

87 

88 
88 
89 

89 

90 
88 


5 


C 

CAKES  

Afternoon  Marguerites  

Chocolate  Icing  

Cream  Filling  or  Boiled  Icing 

Easy  Angel  Cake  

Fruit  Cake  

Fruit  Drops  

Golden  Loaf  Cake 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake 

Layer  Cake  


14 

D 

17 

DESSERTS  

68 

22 

Apple  or  Fruit  Cups  

79 

20 

Apple  Rice  Pudding 

78 

20 

Apple  Tapioca 

18 

Baked  Peaches  and  Pears 

76 

16 

Custard  Pie  

20 

Fig  Pudding  

80 

19 

Fruit  Whips 

72 

15 

223 

Graham  Pudding 

77 

224 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


DESSERTS— 

Jellied  Apricots  

Lemon  Cheese  Cakes 

Lemon  Cream  Sherbet  

Lemon  Jelly  

Lemon  Pie 

Maple  Ice  Cream  

Maple  Mousse  

Marlboro  Tarts  

Marshmallow  Pudding  

Mince  Meat  

Peach  Tart  

Plain  Pastry  

Plum  Pudding  

Prune  FlufY  

Pumpkin  Pie  74, 

Rhubarb  Pie  (Also  Fresh  Fruit  Pies) 

Rice  Pudding  

Strawberry  Shortcake  

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  

Division  of  Labor,  Organization  and.. 

Domestic  Science  in  the  Home 


E 

EGGS  

Bread  Omelet  

Curried  Eggs  

Deviled  Eggs  

Eggs  a la  Suisse  

Eggs  Au  Gratin  

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Pimentos 

Eggs  Steamed  

Fried  Stuffed  Eggs 

Ham  and  Eggs 

Luncheon  Eggs  

Plain  Omelet  

Poached  Eggs  

Equipment,  Laundry  

Etiquette,  Table  

Every  Day  Schedule,  Housekeeper's.  . . 
Expenditures,  Home 

F 

Foods  

Fruits  and  Vegetables,  The  Canning  of 

G 

General  Time  for  Cooking  Vegetables 

H 

Home,  Domestic  Science  in  the 

Home  Expenditures  and  Accurate  Rec- 
ords   

Household  Management,  What  Con- 
stitutes   

Housekeeper's  Creed  

Housekeeper's  Every  Day  Schedule.  . . 

Housekeeper's  Science  of  Cooking 

Housekeeping  a Profession  


J 

Jelly  Making,  Preserves  and 95 

K 

Kitchen  and  Utensils,  A Well 

Equipped  3 

Kitchen  Utensils  4 

L 


Labor,  Organization  and  Division  of..  3 
Laundry  Equipment 5 

M 

MEATS  22 

Chicken  Fricassee  28 

Crown  Roast  of  Lamb  27 

Ham  Baked  in  Cider  27 

Irish  Stew  with  Dumplings  24 

Loin  of  Veal  26 

Pan  Broiled  Steak  26 

Pot  Roast  24 

Roast  Beef  (No.  i)  23 

Roast  Beef  (No.  2)  23 

Roast  Duck  and  Goose  29 

Roast  Turkey  with  Dressing  28 

Steak  and  Vegetables  En  Casserole...  25 
To  Broil  Steaks  or  Chops  with  Gas...  25 

MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  30 

Baked  Beans  33 

Breslau  of  Meat  31 

Chicken  Sandwiches  36 

Children’s  School  Sandwiches  and 

Luncheons  34 

Foods  30 

Ham  Sandwiches  36 

Ham  Souffle  32 

Lenten  Eggs  on  Codfish  Cakes  33 

“ No  Meat " Menus  30 

Picnic  Patties  31 

Salad  Sandwiches  35 

Substitutes  for  Meat  30 

The  Real  Spaghetti  a la  Italianne 32 


O 

Organization  and  Division  of  Labor.  . 3 

P 


PICKLING  loi 

Chili  Sauce  104 

Chow  Chow  102 

Cucumber  Sauce  103 

Genuine  Longfellow  Pickles  104 

Green  Tomato  Pickles  102 

Oiled  Pickles  103 

Pepper  Relish  104 

Watermelon,  Peach  or  Pear  Pickles..  loi 
PRESERVING  AND  JELLY  MAKING  95 
Apple  Jelly,  Quinces  or  Crab  Apples..  100 
Blackberry  Jam  96 


80 

78 

76 

71 

71 

75 

76 

77 

72 

74 

77 

69 

73 

79 

78 

70 

73 

72 

75 

3 

I 

37 

41 

41 

39 

41 

42 

40 

37 

39 

38 

39 

40 

38 

5 

6 

5 

2 

30 

90 

5 

I 

2 

I 

I 

5 

I 

2 


CULINARY  INDEX. 


225 


PRESERVING  AND  JELLY  MAKING 
— Continued. 

Gurrant  Jam  

Grape  Juice  

Mixed  Jelly 

Quince  Preserves  

Rhubarb  Jam  

San  Diego  Orange  Marmalade  

Small  Fruit  Jelly  

Spiced  Currants 

Strawberry  Jam  (Also  Black  and  Red 

Raspberry)  

Profession,  Housekeeping  a 


96 

96 
100 

98 

97 

99 
99 

98 

97 

2 


R 

Records,  Accurate 


2 


Substantial  Meals  Without  Meat...  30 
Substitutes  for  Meat 30 

T 

Table 

Table  Etiquette  

Table  Setting  and  Serving 

Time  for  Cooking  Vegetables,  General 

U 

Utensils,  A Well  Equipped  Kitchen 


and  3 

Utensils,  Kitchen  4 


5 

6 
6 
5 


S 

SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS  62 

Chicken  Salad  65 

Cooked  Salad  Dressing 64 

French  Dressing  64 

June  13th.  Salad  67 

May  Salad  66 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 63 

Potato  Salad  64 

Salad  a la  Kirk 66 

Salads  Served  with  French  Dressing..  63 

Thanksgiving  Salad  65 

Tomato  Crown  Salad 68 

Tomato  Jelly  67 

SAUCES  42 


Apple  Sauce  46 

Chocolate  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream  44 

Cranberry  Jelly  46 

Hard  Sauce 45 

Hollandaise  Sauce 44 

Lemon  Sauce  45 

Mint  Sauce  45 

Mushroom  Sauce 44 

White  Sauce  43 

Schedule,  Housekeeper’s  Every  Day..  5 

Science  in  the  Home,  Domestic  i 

Science  of  Cooking,  Housekeeper’s  ...  i 
Serving,  Table  Setting  and 6 


SOUPS  

Cream  of  Asparagus  

Cream  of  Pea  

Cream  of  Tomato  

Good  Vegetable  

Mock  Oyster  

Pop  Corn  

Soup  Stock  

Tomato  Soup  with  Vegetables 


46 

50 

49 

49 
48 

50 

51 

A 


V 


VEGETABLES  

Asparagus  Tips  in  Pattie  Cases 

Baked  Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Boiled  Cucumbers  

Boiled  Rice  

Carrots  a la  Hollandaise  

Corn  Fritters  

Creamed  Cabbage  

Escalloped  Corn  

Escalloped  Tomatoes  

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes  

Green  Corn  

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  

Lima  Beans  

Mashed  Turnips  

Plain  Asparagus  

Potatoes  Au  Gratin  

Potatoes  O’Brien  

Rice  Croquettes  

Sour  Cream  Slaw  

Spinach — Boiled  and  Creamed  

Stuffed  Egg  Plant 

Stuffed  Sweet  Peppers  

Sweet  Potatoes  En  Casserole  

Tomatoes  Du  Barry  

Tomatoes  on  Toast  

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Corn 

Vegetables,  General  Time  for  Cooking 
Vegetables,  The  Canning  of  Fruits 
and  


51 

55 


52 

59 


58 


57 

58 
60 
56 


57 

53 


54 

54 

53 

53 

57 
62 
61 
61 
56 
60 
59 

58 


5 


90 


W 

What  Constitutes  Household  Man- 
agement   


I 


See  next  page  for  Index  of  “ The  People’s  Home  Recipes  for  Every-Day  Use.” 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPES  FOR  EVERY-DAY  USE, 


For  Index  of  Mrs.  Kirk’s  Department,  see  page  223. 


A 

Alpaca,  To  Clean  206,  207 

Apple  Koker 118 

Apple  Tree  Borers  212 

Apple  Tree  Louse  21 1 

Apples,  To  Keep  209 

Army  Worm  211 

Art  of  Candy  Making,  The  154 

Axle  Grease 21 1 

B 

Baking  Bread  107 

Baking  Powders  108 

Bark  Lice  212 

Barrel  or  Cask,  To  Find  the  Number 

OF  Gallons  in  215 

Bed  Bugs,  To  Exterminate 198 

BEVERAGES  181 

A Cranberry  Drink 183 

A Grapefruit  Cocktail  182 

Blackberry  Wine  183 

Cherry-Shrub  184 

Christmas  Temperance  Punch  184 

Communion  Wine  182 

Cottage  Beer 184 

Cream  Toddy  183 

Dandelion  Wine  181 

Elder  Blossom  Wine  182 

Farmer’s  Soda  184 

Grape  Juice  182,  183 

Ginger  Beer  184 

Grape  Granito  184 

Kentucky  Egg  Nog 182 

Lamb’s  Wool  182 

Milk  Punch  183 

Orange  Toddy  183 

Punch  182 

Raisin  Wine  182 

Raspberry  Vinegar  183 

Roman  Punch  182 

Spruce  Beer 184 

Tea  Punch  182 

Tom  and  Jerry 183 

Various  Fruit  Waters  184 

W^assail  Bowl  183 

Welsh  Nectar  184 

Bin,  To  Find  the  Number  of  Bushels 

IN  211 

226 


BISCUITS  Ill 

Baking  Powder  112 

Breakfast  iii 

Soda  Ill 

Southern  Beaten  112 

Black  Ink,  Copying  or  Writing  Fluid  213 

Black  Stockings,  To  Wash  199 

Blacking,  Patent  211 

Blood  Stains,  To  Remove 212 

Blue,  To  Prevent  from  Fading  207 

Bluing  for  Clothes,  To  Make 210 

Boots,  To  Dry  198 

Bottles  and  Cruets,  To  Clean  204 

Brass  or  Copper  Kettles,  To  Clean 206 

BREAD  MAKING  105 

Baking  107 

Baking  Powders  108 

Bread  Recipes  108 

Flour  105 

Mixing  and  Kneading  106 

Recipes  for  Making  Yeast  108 

The  Sponge 106 

Yeast  106 


BREADS  108 

Boston  Brown  109 

Bread  108 

Corn  no 

Cornish  no 

Currant  no 

Eggless  Gingerbread no 

Entire  Wheat  109 

Fried  no 

Gingerbread no 

Graham  no 

“ Hotel  Berry  ” Brown  Bread  109 

Katahdin  Corn  no 

Oatmeal  109 

Old  Fashioned  Brown  109 

Raised  Graham  no 

Salt  Rising  109 

Soft  Gingerbread  no 

Spinster’s  109 

Steamed  Brown  no 

Steamed  Graham  no 

Whole  Wheat  109 

Breads,  Light  (See  “Light  Breads.”).,  in 
Breath,  Smell  of  Onions  to  Remove 

from  the  197 


CULINARY  INDEX. 


327 


BUNS  II7 

Currant  1 17 

That  Boys  Like  117 

Burning  Lamp  Wicks,  To  Destroy  Odor 

OF  197 

Butter,  To  Keep  for  Winter  Use 202 

Cabbages,  To  Keep  209 

Cabbage  Worms  203 

CAKE  MAKING  119 

Cake  Recipes i . ..  121 

Frostings,  Icings  and  Fillings 128 

General  Directions  1 19 

CAKES 121 

A Cheap  Fruit  125 

• Angel  123 

Angel  Food  122 

Anna’s  Cup  124 

Apple  127 

Black  Fruit  125 

Breakfast  127 

Buttermilk  121 

Caramel  121 

Centennial  124 

Cheap 124 

Cheap  Fruit 128 

Chocolate  124 

Chocolate  Caramel  126 

Chocolate  Loaf 127 

Clara  Follett’s  124 

Cocoa  124 

Coffee  124 

Cornstarch  Loaf  124 

Cream  126 

Cream  Puffs  127 

Crumb  124 

Custard  126 

Delicate  121 

Delicate  Cocoanut  124 

Devil  122,  128 

Devil’s  Food  122 

Dolly  Varden  127 

Economical  121 

Farmer’s  Fruit  125 

Feather  124 

Fig  126 

French  124 

Fruit  1 21 

Gold  and  Silver 123 

Good  Almond 127 

Gospel  125 

Grandma’s  121 

Hickory  Nut 123 

Ice  Cream  122 

Jelly  Roll  122 

Johnny 127 

Lady  T25 

Layer  or  Loaf  128 

Lemon  123 

Lemon  Jelly 123 

Lightning  Clouse  128 

Maple  127 

Marble  121 

Minnehaha  125 


CAKES — Continued. 

Morangtarta  125 

Myrna  Marble 122 

Nut  123 

One  Egg  122,  125 

Plain  128 

Plain  Walnut  123 

Pork 127 

Prince  of  Wales 123 

Queen  125 

Quick 122 

Ribbon  123 

Roll  Jelly  127 

Silver  125 

Spice  127,  128 

Sponge 122 

Sultana  121 

Sunshine 126 

Surprise  128 

Tea  126 

Taylor  121 

Velvet  126 

Washington  126 

Wedding 121 

White  126 

White  Fruit  125 

White  Loaf  126 

White  Mountain 123 

Cakes,  Griddle 119 

Calicoes,  Cambrics  and  Muslins,  To 

Wash  203 

CANDY  MAKING,  THE  ART  OF....  154 

Cream  Candies  157 

Bonbons  158 

Chocolates  157 

Cocoanut  Creams 159 

Combination  Creams  159 

Cream  Dates  158 

Cream  Grapes 158 

Orangettes  159 

Sweet  Sweets  and  Bitter  Sweets 157 

Various  Chocolates 158 

Wafers  158 

Fondants  156 

Maple  157 

To  Color 157 

To  Flavor 157 

V’^hite  157 

People’s  Recipes  for  Home-Made  Can- 
dies   161 

Butter  Scotch 161,  162 

Chewing  Taffy 161 

Cracker  Jack  161 

Cream  Candy  161 

Hickory  Nut  Kisses  162 

January  Thaws  161 

Kisses 162 

^Tacaroons  162 

Maple  Fudge 162 

Maple  Sugar  Candy 162 

Marshmallows l6i 

Molasses  Taffy 161 

Peanut  Brittle 161 


22S 


THE  PEOPLE^S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


CANDY  MAKING,  THE  ART  OF— 
— Continued. 

Prauline  

Sea  Foam 

Sugar  Drops  

Precautions  to  Prevent  Sugaring  or 

Graining  

Taffies  

Cinnamon 

Clove  

Lemon  

Orange  

Pineapple 

Strawberry 

Vanilla  

Wintergreen 

Testing — How  To  Tell  When  Candy  is 

Done  

Testing  Table 

Various  Candies 

Buttering  Sticks  

Candy  Cough  Drops 

Cocoanut  Bar  Candy  

Cream  Caramels — Vanilla  and  Choco- 
late   

Peanut  Bar  Candy 

Canker  Worms  

CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND 

JELLY  MAKING 

Canned  Apple  Sauce  

Canned  Beans  

Canned  Com 

Canned  Elderberries  187, 

Canned  Fruits  (All  Kinds)  

Canned  Pineapple  

Canned  Rhubarb  

Canning  Fruits,  Making  Preserves, 

Jellies,  Etc 

Canning  Table  

Cooking  Apricots 

Gooseberry  Conserves  

Grape  Marmalade  

Jellies 

Lemon  Butter  

Lemon  Marmalade  

Marmalades  

Orange  Marmalade  187, 

Pear  Chips 

Pieplant  Jelly  

Peserved  Cherries 

Preserves  

Quince  Honey  187, 

Strawberry  Preserves  

To  Cook  Cranberries 

Tomato  Preserves  

Carpet  Bugs,  To  Kill 

Carpet  Cleaner 

Carpets,  To  Clean 

Caterpillars 

Celery  Pest  or  Little  Negro  Bug 

Celery,  To  Keep  

CrxLARS,  To  Keep  Clean  

Cement  for  Broken  China  


161 

161 

162 

155 

159 

159 

159 

159 

159 

159 

159 

159 

159 

155 

156 

160 
160 
160 
160 

160 

160 

217 

I8S 

188 

187 

187 

188 

185 

188 

187 

186 

185 

187 

187 

186 
186 

188 
188 

186 
188 

187 

188 

187 

186 

188 

187 

187 

188 
21 1 


212 

217 

208 

2o3 

203 


Cement  for  China,  Marble  and  Glass- 
ware   205 

Cement,  Diamond  202 

Cement  for  Glass  and  Iron  158 

Cement  for  All  Kinds  of  Articles,  A 

Good  205 

Cement  for  Rubber  or  Leather 202 

Cement  for  Wood,  Ivory,  Stone,  Porce- 
lain, Leather,  Silk,  Woolen  or  Cot- 
ton   202 

Cement  for  China  and  Glass  203 

Chafing  Disk  Cookery  (See  “Rel- 
ishes.”)   151 

Cheese  Dishes  (See  “Relishes.”)  151 

Children's  Rusks  118 

Chromos,  To  Clean  204 

Cinch  Bugs  212 

Cistern  Water,  To  Purify 197 

Cloth,  To  Remove  Acid  Spots  from  . . 206 
Cloth,  To  Remove  Alkali  Spots  from  207 
Clothes,  How  they  are  Cleaned  by 

Those  Who  Make  it  a Business 217 

Clothing,  To  Clean  Mud  from  197 

Clothing,  To  Remove  Bad  Smells  from  204 
Clothing,  To  Remove  Paint  from  206 


Coat  Collars  and  Seams  and  Elbows, 

To  Clean  and  Remove  Gloss  from  . . 202 


Coffee  Pots,  Care  of  204 

Coffee  Stains,  To  Remove 198,  209 

Colorado  Beetle  or  Potato  Bug 212 

Concrete  21 1 


COOKIES  113 

Boston  1 14 

Cookies  114 

Cookies  (Mother  B’s)  115 

Cornstarch  1 14 

Crisp  Chocolate  113 

Crumb  Cakes  113 

Cream  114 

Drop  Ginger  Cakes  114 

Fruit  1 13 

Ginger  114 

Ginger  Drop  Cakes  113 

Ginger  Snaps  114 

Hermits  114 

Lemon  114 

Lemon  Drops  114 

Mince  Crisp  115 

Molasses  H4 

Mother’s  Caraway  113 

Nut  113 

Oatmeal  113 

Oatmeal  Macaroons  114 

Peanut  U4 

Rocks  1 14 

Scotch- 113 

Taylor  Cakes  U3 


Cooking  of  Meats  and  Poultry 130 


Cooking  Utensils,  Treatment  of  New  203 


Corks  205 

Corn  Cake  H7 

Corn  Dodgers  H7 

Corn  Moth  212 


CULINARY  INDEX. 


229 


Corn  Pone  

Crackers  

Cranberries,  To  Keep 

CREAMS  AND  CUSTARDS 

Apple  Custard  

Apple  Float  

Apple  Snow  

Banana  Pudding  

Bavarian  Cream  

Charlotte  Russe  

Cherrry  Tapioca  

Custard  

Custard  Souffle  

Fruit  Jelly  

Kiss  Pudding  

Lemon  Gelatine  

Mock  Whipped  Cream  

Orange  Float  

Pink  Cream 

Pretty  Pudding  

Raspberry  Whip  

Russian  Cream  

Spanish  Cream  

Strawberry  Foam  

Velvet  Cream  


....  II7 

....  ii8 

208 

....  176 
....  178 
. ...  176 
. ...  176 
....  176 
. ...  176 
177,  178 
....  177 
....  177 
....  177 


178 

178 

177 

177 

177 

177 

177 

177 

178 
178 
178 


CROQUETTES  139 

Cheese  139 

Hominy  139 

Italian  139 

Macaroni  139 

Oyster  and  Veal  139 

Potato  139 

Rice  139 

Rice  and  Beef  139 

Salmon  139 

Sweet  Potato  139 

Veal  139 

Cullers  117 

Cucumber  Beetles  217 

JDurrant  Worms  and  Rose  Slugs,  To 

Destroy  203 

Cut  Worms  217 

Cutlery,  To  Prevent  Rusting  of 205 


D 


Dodgers,  Corn  117 

DOUGHNUTS  115 

Doughnuts  1 15 

Doughnuts  (Fine)  116 

Fried  Cakes  116 

Improved  Fat  for  Frying  Doughnuts, 

Croquettes,  Etc 116 

Raised  116 

Snow  Balls  116 

Dressings,  Salad  166 

DUMPLINGS  117 

Always  Light  117 

Chicken  117 

Drop  117 

DYEING  AND  COLORING  213 

Cotton  Goods  213 

Black  213 

Blue  213 


DYEING  AND  COLORING— ConfinM^d. 
Brown  for  Cotton,  Woolen  or  Silk  213 


Green  214 

Orange  214 

Red  214 

Sky  Blue  for  Cotton  or  Silk 213 

Yellow  213 

Silk  Goods 215 

Black  215 

Brown  215 

Crimson  215 

Green  215 

Light  Blue  215 

Orange  215 

Sky  Blue  215 

Yellow  215 

Woolen  Goods  214 

Blue  214 

Brown  • 214 

Chrome  Black  214 

Crimson  214 

Green  214 

Orange  214 

Pink  214 

Scarlet  214 

Yellow  214 


E 

EGGS  

Baked  

Baked  with  Cheese  

Breaded  

Bird’s  Nest  

Buttered  

Creamed  

Cupped  

Curried  

Deviled  

Dropped  

Egg  Gems  

Egg  Fricassee  

Egg  Nest  Toast  

Eggs  a la  Bonne  Femme 

Eggs  a la  Creme  

Eggs  a la  Creole  

Eggs  a la  Suisse  

Eggs  a la  Mode  

Eggs  Brouille  

Eggs  in  Tomatoes  

Eggs  in  Paper  Cases  

Escalloped  

Eried  

Erizzled  

Erizzled  Ham  and  Eggs  . 

Erotbed  

Lunch  

Newport  Style  

Ox  Eyes  

Pickled  

Poached  

Potted  

Scrambled  

Shirred  


142 

144 

143 

146 

144 

145 

143 

145 

144 
143 

145 
143 

145 
143 

146 

145 
143 

146 

145 

146 

143 

147 

144 
144 

146 

144 

147 

146 

145 

143 

146 


145 

144 


230 


THE  PEOPLE'S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


"EGGS— Continued. 

Stuffed  

Steamed  

To  Coddle  an  Egg  

To  Preserve  

F 

Feathers,  To  Clean  

Feathers,  To  Curl  

Feathers,  To  Restore  

Fillings,  Cake  

Fire  Kindler  203, 

FISH  AND  OYSTERS 

Baked  Codfish  

Baked  Pickerel  

Baked  Salmon  

Baked  Shad  

Baked  White  Fish  

Boiled  Fresh  Fish  

Broiled  Oysters  

Clam  Stew  

Codfish  Balls  

Creamed  Fish  

Curried  Oysters  

Escalloped  Oysters  

Escalloped  Salmon  

Fish  a la  Creme  

Fried  Oysters  

Frizzled  Oysters  

Halibut  Steak  

Hollandaise  Sauce  

Lobster  a la  Newburg 

Oyster  Cocktails  

Oyster  Dressing  

Oyster  Omelet  

Oyster  Rarebit  

Pigs  in  Blanket  

Salmon  Balls  

Salmon  Chops  

Salmon  Croquettes  

Salmon  Loaf  

Steamed  Oysters  

Turbot  

Flannels,  To  Wash  

Flannels,  To  Wash  and  Dry  

Fleas,  To  Drive  Away 

Flies,  To  Get  Rid  of 

Flies,  To  Keep  Off  Gilt  Frames  

Flour  

Fresh  Paint,  To  Remove  Smell  of  . . . 

FRITTERS  

Corn  

Corn  Fritters  or  Mock  Oysters 

Fried  Cream  

Oyster  

Potato  

Rice  Cakes  

fr^stings,  icings  and  fill- 
ings   

Boiled  Icing  

Caramel  Icing  

Chocolate  Cream  Frosting  

Chocolate  Filling  for  Cake  

Custard  Filling 


FROSTINGS,  ICINGS  AND  FILL- 


INGS— Continued. 

Icing  for  Cookies  I29 

Icing  Without  Boiling  128 

Lemon  Jelly  Filling  129 

Maple  Caramel  Frosting  129 

Marshmallow  Filling  or  Icing  128 

Fruit  Jars.  To  Loosen  Covers  of 203 

P'roit  Stains,  To  Remove  198 

Furniture  Dressing  196 

Furniture  Polish  199 

Furniture  Polish.  An  Excellent Ip8 

Furs,  To  Clean  Dark  217 

Furs,  To  Clean  Light  217 

G 

GAME  135 

A Delicious  Rabbit  Fry  135 

Hasenpfeffer  135 

Pheasants,  Partridges,  Quails,  Etc....  135 

Rabbit  Stew  135 

GEMS  116 

Corn  1 16 

Graham  116 

Wheat  1 16 

General  Directions  for  Making  Pies  162 

Gilt  Frames,  To  Clean  202 

Glass,  To  Bore  Holes  in  212 

Glass,  To  Clean  199 

Glass,  To  Cut  or  Break  in  any  Shape  212 

Glass  Decanter.  To  Clean  a 199 

Glass,  To  Remove  Panes  of  199 

Glass  Stoppers,  To  Remove  Tight 206 

Gloves,  To  Clean  Kid  199 

Gloves,  To  Clean  Light  199 

Gloves,  To  Clean  Silk  and  Thread...  207 

Glue,  Liquid  202,  21 1 

Gnats  199 

Gold  Chains,  Etc.,  To  Clean  21 1 

Grafting  Wax  203 

Graham  Crackers  118 

Grain  Wfevil  212 

Grapes,  To  Keep 209 

Grass  Stains,  To  Remove 199 

Grease,  To  Remove  199 

Grease,  To  Remove  from  Floor  199 

Grease,  To  Remove  from  Wood  Before 

Painting  205 

Grease,  To  Take  Out  of  Woolens, 

Silks,  Paper,  Floors,  Etc 207 

Gpr-ASY  Skillets  To  Wash  203 

GRIDDLE  CAKES  119 

Buckwheat  119 

Corn  Meal  119 

Egg  1 19 

Graham  H9 

Potato  1 19 

Grubs  217 

H 

HAVDY  tables  for  COOKS 218 

Butter  218 

Eggs  218 


T45 

146 

144 

197 

209 

210 

209 

128 

206 

135 

136 

136 

138 

138 

136 

136 

136 

138 

137 

136 

1.38 

1.38 

136 

137 

1.38 

137 

1.38 

136 

136 

136 

137 

138 

137 

137 

137 

138 

137 

137 

137 

199 

203 

204 

200 

.204 

105 

204 

115 

115 

115 

115 

T15 

115 

115 

128 

129 

128 

129 

128 

129 


CULINARY  INDEX. 


231 


HANDY  TABLES  FOR  COOKS— 
Continued. 

Flour  

Sugar  

Hard  Water,  To  Make  Soft 201, 

Hay,  To  Measure  

Herbs,  To  Keep  All  Kinds  of 

Hessian  Fly 

Hinges,  To  Keep  from  Creaking 

How  TO  Select  Good  Meat  and  Poultry 

I 

ICE  CREAMS,  SHERBETS  AND 

ICES  

Almond  Ice  Cream 

Banana  Ice  Cream  

Bisque  Glace  

Caramel  Ice  Cream  

Cherry  Ice  

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  

Cocoanut  Ice  Cream  

Cranberry  Ice  

Currant  Ice  

Currant  Sherbet  

Frozen  Fruit  

Green  Grape  Sherbet  

Lemon  Ice  

Lemon  Sherbet'  . 

Macaroon  Ice  Cream  

Maple  Frappe  

New  York  Ice  Cream  

Orange  Ice  

Orange  Sherbet  

Peach  Ice  

Peach  Ice  Cream  

Pineapple  Ice  Cream  

Pineapple  Sherbet  

Plum  Glace  

Raspberry  Ice  Cream  

Roman  Cream  

Strawberry  Ice  

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  

Three  of  a Kind 

Tutti  Frutti  

Vanilla  and  Lemon  Ice  Cream 

Ices  

Icings,  Cake  

Ink,  To  Remove  from  Linen  

Ink  Spots  

Ink  Stains,  To  Remove  

Insects  Suck  as  Bed  Bugs,  Moths, 

Etc.,  To  Kill  

Interest,  A Quick  and  Easy  Way  to 

Compute  

Iron  Rust,  To  Remove  from  Clothing 

Iron  or  Steel,  To  Polish  

Iron  Vessels,  To  Mend 

Ironing  

J 

Jelly  Making  (See  “Canning,  Etc.”).. 
Jumbles  


Jumbles,  Favorite  118 

Jewelry,  To  Clean  201 

K 

Kerosene  and  Grease  Spots,  To  Take 

from  Carpets  204 

Kerosene,  To  Remove  198 

Kitchen  Floors,  Tables  and  Wooden 

Articles,  To  Clean  204 

Kneading  Bread  106 

Knives,  To  Clean  206 

L 

Lace  Curtains,  To  Wash  208 

Lace,  To  Clean  Black  207 

Laces,  Washing  208 

Lamp  Chimneys  and  Other  Glass- 
ware, To  Temper  205 

Lamp  Chimneys,  To  Clean  198,  199 

Lemons,  To  Keep  208 

LIGHT  BREADS  iii 

Biscuits  Ill 

Buns  117 

Corn  Dodgers,  Corn  Pone,  Corn  Cake  117 

Crackers  118 

Crullers  117 

Cookies  113 

Doughnuts  115 

Dumplings  117 

Fritters  115 

Gems  1 16 

Griddle  Cakes  119 

Jumbles  118 

Muffins  1 16 

Rolls  Ill 

Rusks  1 18 

Sandwiches  112 

Scotch  Scones  and  Apple  Koker 118 

Toasts  118 

Waffles  1 16 

Lightning  Cream  for  Clothes  or 

Paint  205 

Linen  Collars  and  Cuffs,  To  Stiffen  206 

Linen  Stains,  To  Remove  201 

Linoleum  or  Oil  Cloth,  To  Clean...  197 

M 

Machine  Oil,  To  Take  Out  206 

Magic  Annthilator  210 

Magic  Furniture  Polish  205 

Making  Yeast.  Recipfs  for  108 

MEATS  AND  POULTRY  131 

A Ragout  134 

Baked  Veal  Chops  or  Cutlet 131 

Beef  Loaf  134 

Beefsteak  Roll  131 

Boiled  Ham  ^ 132 

Brai"ed  Beef  132 

Breaded  Ham  131 

Chicken  and  Macaroni  133 

Chicken  Croquettes  133 


218 

218 

204 

211 

208 

212 

204 

130 

178 

179 

179 

181 

179 

180 

179 

179 

180 

180 

180 

181 

180 

180 

180 

179 

181 

179 

180 

180 

180 

179 

179 

181 

181 

180 

180 

180 

179 

181 

181 

179 

178 

128 

198 

197 

199 

197 

215 

207 

206 

197 

199 

185 

118 


232 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


MEATS  AND  V0\JU:RY— Continued. 

Chicken  Cutlets  

Chicken  Pie  

Chicken  Sauteing  

Chicken  Tamales  

Chop  Suey  

Cleveland  Chicken  

Creamed  Beef  

Curry  Chicken  

Deviled  Ham  Loaf  

Deviled  Ham  Rolls  

Dressing  for  Baked  Fowl  

Dressing  for  Stuffing  Meats  

Ham  Pattie  

Liver  Timbales  

Nut  Balls 

Old  Point  Comfort  Chicken  Terrapin 

Pressed  Tongue  

Stuffed  Leg  of  Pork  

Stuffed  Tripe  

Sweetbreads  and  Peas  

Tasse  Ham  

Veal  Loaf  

Veal  with  Oysters  

MEATS  AND  POULTRY,  HOW  TO 

SELECT  GOOD  

Beef  

Ducks  

Fowls  

Geese  

Mutton  

Pork  

Turkeys  

Veal  

Meats  and  Poultry,  The  Cooking  of.. 

Meats,  Preserving  

Mice,  To  Keep  Away  

Mildew,  To  Remove  

Miscellaneous  Weights  

Mixing  and  Kneading  Bread 

Mosquitoes  and  Flies  

Mosquitoes  and  Flies,  To  Prevent  Bites 

from  

Moths  

Muffins  

Muffins,  Corn  

Muslin,  To  Bleach  

Muslins,  To  Wash  Delicate  Colored 
Mucilage  

N 

Neckties  and  Other  Goods  that  Fade, 
To  Wash  

O 

Oilcloth,  To  Clean  and  Keep  Nice 

OMELETS  

Baked  

French  

Ham  

Jelly  or  Marmalade  

Omelet  

Potato  


Onion  Maggots  217 

Onions,  To  Keep  208 

Oysters,  Fish  and  135 


P 


Pails  and  Tubs,  To  Keep  from 

Shrinking  204 

Paint  Spots,  To  Remove  from  Windows  203 
Paint  Stains,  To  Remove  from  Cotton 

AND  Wool  197 

Paint  and  Varnish,  To  Remove  Old..  199 

Painted  Surface,  To  Wash  200 

Parsley,  To  Keep  Green  and  Fresh..  208 

Parsnips  and  Salsify,  To  Keep 208 

Patent  Leather,  To  Polish  199 

Peas,  To  Keep  for  Winter  Use 209 

Piano  Polish 200 

PICKLING  189 

Beet  Pickles  189 

Bordeaux  Sauce  191 

Canned  Beets  192 

Canned  Cucumbers  192 

Celery  Sauce  190 

Chili  Sauce  192,  194 

Chopped  Pickles  189 

Chow  Chow  189 

Chowder  191 

Cold  Catsup 192 

Corn  Salad  193 

Corn  Sauce  191 

Cucumber  Catsup  193 

Cucumber  Pickles  189,  193 

Damson  Plum  Catsup  191 

“ Dandy  ” Home-Made  Pickles  192 

Dill  Pickles  189 

English  Chow  Chow  190 

Euchered  Crab  Apples  191 

Gooseberry  Catsup  190 

Green  Tomato  Pickles  190 

Mexican  Chili  Sauce  193 

Mixed  Pickles  190,  192 

Piccalilli  191 

Pickled  Cabbage  191 

Pickled  Peaches  193 

Pickled  Peppers  . 190 

Pickled  String  Beans  193 

Sliced  Cucumbers  189 

Small  Cucumber  Pickles 191 

Sour  Cucumber  Pickles  192 

Spanish  Pickle  191 

Spiced  Peaches  192 

String  Bean  Pickles 192 

Stuffed  Peppers  191 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches  190 

Sweet  Pickled  Prunes  190 

Sweet  Pickles — Pears,  Peaches  and 

Apples  193 

Tomato  Catsup  194 

Tomato  Higdom  190 

Tomato  Ketchup  190 

Tomato  Sauce  190 

Watermelon  Pickles  I93 


133 

133 

133 

131 

134 

133 

131 

132 

134 

132 

134 

131 

132 

134 

134 

133 

134 

132 

134 

133 

132 

131 

132 

129 

129 

130 

130 

130 

120 

130 

130 

130 

130 

194 

200 

201 

216 

106 

201 

200 

200 

116 

1 16 

208 

207 

209 

207 

197 

147 

147 

147 

148 

148 

147 

147 


CULINARY  INDEX, 


233 


PIES  162 

Buttermilk  163 

Chocolate  164 

Chocolate  Cream  164 

Cocoanut  164 

Cornstarch  164 

Cream  164 

Custard  164 

Delicious  Apple  163 

Elderberry  164 

Lemon  164 

Lemon  Cream  165 

Mince  Meat  164 

Mock  Cherry  164 

Mock  Mince  165 

Molasses  164 

Pie  Crust  165 

Pie  Dough  165 

Pieplant  165 

Pumpkin  165 

Raisin  165 

Rhubarb  165 

Shoo-Fly  165 

Squash  165 

Transparent  165 

Vinegar  a.. 165 

Pies,  General  Directions  for  Making  162 

Plant  Lice  217 

Plates,  Cleaning  Before  Washing 197 

Poultry  (See  “Meats  and  Poultry.’’)...  131 

Poultry  and  Meats,  How  to  Select 

Good  129 

Poultry  and  Meats,  The  Cooking  of.  130 

Powders,  Baking  108 

Preserving  (See  “Canning,  Etc.”)..  185,  186 

PRESERVING  MEATS  194 

Bologna  Sausage  195 

Corned  Beef  194 

Cracknels  195 

Curing  and  Smoking  Hams  194 

Curing  Hams  194 

Dried  Beef  194 

Head  Cheese  195 

Mince  Meat  196 

Mock  Sausage  195 

Pickle  for  Beef  or  Ham 194 

Pig’s  Feet  Souse  195 

Preserving  Eggs  196 

Pressed  Beef  196 

Sausage  195 

Scrapple  195 

To  Keep  Smoked  Hams  194 

To  Preserve  Sausages  194 

Potatoes,  To  Keep  209 

PUDDINGS  170 

Apple  Dicky  170 

Baked  Indian  Pudding  with  Hard 

Sauce  171 

Bird’s  Nest  170 

Black  170 

Blanc  Mange  175 

Bread  174 

Bread  and  Butter  170 

Brown  170 


PUDDINGS — Continued. 

Brown  Betty 173 

Cheap  173 

Cherry  173 

Cherry  Puffs  172 

Chocolate  173 

Cocoanut  and  Tapioca  171 

Cottage  173 

Crystallized  Apples  173 

Cup  174 

Currant  173 

Date  174 

En'glish  Plum  172 

Fig  171 

French  171 

Fruit  171 

Fruit  Dowdy 171 

Fruit  Juice  Blanc  Mange  174 

Fruit  Puff  175 

Fruit  Roll  174 

Gelatine  Jelly  174 

Lemon  171 

Lemon  Rice  173 

Orange  174 

Peach  or  Apple  170 

Prune  172 

Prune  Whip  175 

Quick  Apple  Dumplings  174 

Quick  Puff  172 

Raspberry  Float 174 

Rice  172,  173 

Simple  Plum  172 

Snow  174 

Sponge  172 

Steamed  Chocolate  171 

Strawberry  Shortcake  173 

Suet  172 

Vegetable  173 

R 

Rancid  Butter,  To  Sweeten  21  r 

Rats,  To  Drive  Away  200 

Rats,  To  Drive  Away  Without  Kill- 
ing   200 

Recipes  for  Making  Yeast  108 

Recipes  for  Pies  163 

Receipts  of  All  Kinds,  Various  196 

Red  Ants,  A Preventive  for 200 

Red  Ants,  To  Drive  Away 204,  205 

Red  Table  Linen,  To  Wash  207 

RELISHES,  CHEESE  AND  CHAF- 
ING DISH  COOKERY 151 

A Delicious  Omelet  151 

Cheese  Balls  153 

Cheese  Fouder  152 

Cheese  Fondu  152 

Cheese  Ramekins  153 

Cheese  Sauce  for  Potatoes  154 

Cheese  Straws  153 

Chocolate  Souffle 152 

Clams  a la  Newburg  152 

Corn  Oysters  152 

Creamed  Chicken  152 


Creamed  Chicken  and  Mushrooms...  152 


234- 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK, 


RELISHES,  CHEESE  AND  CHAF- 
ING DISH  COOKERY— Continued. 


Creamed  Oysters  152 

Deviled  Eggs  152 

Deviled  Crabs  153 

Dreams  I53 

Fricassee  of  Dried  Beef  152 

Fricasseed  Eggs  , 15’ 

Fruit  Canopes  153 

Halibut  a la^  Hollandaise  153 

Macaroni  and  Cheese  151 

Mexican  Macaroni  154 

Nut  Loaf  15J 

Plain  Rarebit  152 

Sardines  on  Toast 153 

Shrimp  Wiggle  153 

Spaghetti  154 

Welsh  Rarebit  153 

Ribbons,  To  Wash  203 

Roaches,  To  Exterminate  198 

Roaches,  To  Kill  204 

ROLLS  Ill 

Astor  House  iii 

Cinnamon  iii 

French  in 

Parker  House  in 

Rolls  Ill 

Round  Tank,  To  Find  the  Number  of 

Gallons  in  216 

Rusks,  Children's  118 

Rust  197 

Rust,  To  Prevent  202 

Rust,  To  Remove  from  Plows  and 

Other  Steel  Implements  206 

Rusty  Wash  Boilers,  To  Clean 206 

S 

SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS  166 

Apple  Salad  167 

Baked  Corn  169 

Banana  Salad  166 

Beet  Salad  167 

Cabbage  Salad  Dressing 167 

Cheese  Salad  Dressing  168 

Cherry  Salad 166 

Chicken  Salad  168 

Cold  Slaw  167 

Cold  Slaw  Dressing  168 

Corn  Salad  166 

Cream  Dressing  167,  169 

D**essing  for  Yellow  Pickles 167 

Endive  Salad  168 

Fruit  Salad  166 

German  Potato  Salad 168 

Green  Bean  Salad  ! 168 

Heavenly  Hash  or  Fruit  Salad  168 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes  169 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  168,  169 

Meat  Salad  1^8 

Mixed  Summer  Salad  ..  166 

Mustard  Dressing PS 

Nut  Salad  168 

Potato  Salad  169 

Salad  Dressing  167,  169 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS 
— Continued. 

Salmon  Dressing  169 

Sardine  Salad  167 

Slaw  167 

Sour  Potatoes  i.69 

String  Bean  Salad  166 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 167 

Sweetbread  Salad  167 

Tomato  Jelly  168 

Waldo  Salad  169 

Waldorf  Salad  with  Mayonnaise 

Dressing  169 

SANDWICHES  112 

Apple  and  Celery  112 

Chicken  112 

Club  1 12 

Egg  1 13 

French  ..o..  112 

Ham  112 

Nut  112 

Nut  and  Cheese 112 

Pimentos  113 

Salmon  112 

Sweet  1 12 

SAUCES  175 

Cream  Sauce  for  Puddings 175 

Fig  175 

Hard  175 

Hot  Chocolate  Sauce  for  Ice  CreTtn  or 

Pudding  , , . . 175 

Lemon  175 

Pudding  175 

Scale  217 

Scorches,  To  Remove  from  Cloth  ...  201 
Scorching  When  Ironing,  To  Pri  vent  199 

Scotch  Scones  118 

Screws,  To  Loosen  200 

Sealing  Wax,  To  Remove 210 

Sherbets  and  Ices  t.  178 

Shirts.  Silver  Polish  for ,.  207 

Silver  Polish  205 

Silver,  To  Clean  201 

Silver,  To  Clean  Blackened  200 

Silverware,  To  Keep  204 

Silver,  To  Remove  Egg  Stains  from  . . 205 

Slugs  217 

Soap,  Hard  201 

Soap,  Patent  210 

Soap,  Soft  201 

Soot.  To  Remove  200 

SOUPS  140 

.Asparagus  140 

Bean  140 

Beef  Broth  142 

Bisque  of  Oysters  141 

Bouillon  142 

Celery  141 

Clam  141 

Cream  of  Celery 142 

Noodles  for  Soup 140 

Potato  140 

Soup  Stock  . 141 

Split  Pea  141 


CULINARY  INDEX. 


235 


SOUPS — Contin,ued. 

Tomato  140, 

Tomato  Bisque  

Vegetable  

White  

Sponge,  To  Clean  a 

Sponge,  The  

Squash  Bugs  

Stains  Caused  by  Scorching,  To  Remove 

Stains,  To  Remove  from  Clothing 

Steel  Knives,- To  Keep  from  Rusting.. 
Stove  Polish,  Brilliant  Self-Shining 

Strawberry  Worms  

Straw  Hats,  To  Clean  

T 

Table,  A Handy  

Table  of  Apothecaries  Weight  

Table  of  Avoirdupois  Weight 

Table  of  Fluid  Measures 

Table  of  Liquid  Measure 

Table  of  Troy  Weight  

Tableware,  To  Remove  Taste  of  Fish 

from  

Tan,  To  Remove  

Tar,  To  Remove  

Tar.  Wagon  Grease,  Mixtures  of  Fat, 
Carbon  and  Acetic  Acid,  To  Remove 

Teakettle,  The 

Tea  Stains,  To  Remove 

Tight  Shoe,  A 

Time  Table  for  Cooks  

Tin  Teakettles,  To  Brighten  

Tin,  To  Mend  

*^inware.  To  Clean  

VOASTS  

American  

Ury  Beef  

Good  

obacco  Pipes,  To  Clean 

Turnips,  To  Keep 

V 

Various  Recipes  of  All  Kinds  

VEGETABLES  

Baked  Corn  

Boston  Baked  Beans  

Baked  Onions  

Carrots  with  Milk  

Cauliflower  

Celery  on  Toast 

Corn  a la  Southern  

Corn  and  Tomatoes  

Corn  ATock  Oysters  

Corn  Oysters  

Corn  Pudding  

Creamed  Potatoes  

Egg  Plant  

Escalloped  Corn  

Esralloped  Onions  

Escalloped  Potatoes  

Escalloped  Tomatoes  

French  Stew  


VEGETABLES — Continued. 

Fried  Egg  Plant  150 

Fried  A.ushrooms  149 

Fried  Tomatoes  151 

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes  149 

Potato  Croquettes 150 

Potato  Puffs  151 

Potato  Rolls  150 

Potato  Fluff  149 

Potatoes  in  Half  Shell  150 

Roast  Pork  and  Lima  Beans 151 

Roasted  Tomatoes 150 

Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oyster 150 

Spinach  149 

Southern  Cabbage  148 

Squash  Cakes  149 

Stewed  Cucumbers  151 

Stewed  Onions  150 

Stuff'ed  Potatoes  149 

Tomatoes  a la  Spanish 150 

Vegetables,  To  Keep  209 

Vegetables,  The  Temperature  at 

Which  they  Should  be  Kept 209 

Velvet,  To  Clean  207 

Velvet,  To  Restore  206 

W 

Waffles  1 16 

Wall  or  Building,  How  to  Find  the 

Number  of  Common  Bricks  in  216 

Wall  Paper  Cleaner  196 

Wall  Paper,  To  Clean  205 

Washing  Black  and  White  Calicoes..  203 

Washing  Blankets  198 

Washing  Fluid  196 

Washing  Fluid,  Gem  201 

Washing  Pink  and  Green  Calicoes...  203 

Washing  Purple  or  Blue  203 

Washing  Windows  203 

Water,  To  Purify  201 

Water,  To  Soften  206 

Water-proof  Paper  Covering  for  Jars — 

Used  in  Preserving,  Etc 206 

Weights  and  Measures  202 

Welding,  BL^CKSMITH's  Borax  for 196 

“WHAT  TO  DO”  AND  “HOW  TO 

DO  IT”  196 

Alpaca,  To  Clean  206,  207 

Apple  Tree  Borers  212 

Apple  Tree  Louse  211 

Apples,  To  Keep  209 

Army  Worm  21 1 

Axle  Grease 211 

Bark  Lice  212 

Barrel  or  Ca'^k,  To  Find  the  Number 

of  Gallons  in  215 

Bed  Rugs,  To  Exterminate  198 

Bin.  To  Find  the  Number  of  Bushels  in  211 
Black  Ink,  Copying  or  Writing  Fluid.  213 

Black  Stockings,  To  Wash  199 

Blacking.Patent  2ii 

Blood  Stains,  To  Remove 212 

Blue,  To  Prevent  from  Fading 207 


142 

141 

141 

141 

204 

106 

217 

201 

199 

198 

210 

212 

217 

216 

216 

216 

216 

216 

216 

205 

198 

210 

212 

204 

200 

197 

218 

205 

205 

201 

118 

118 

1 18 

118 

212 

208 

196 

148 

148 

148 

149 

150 

148 

148 

148 

ISO 

151 

148 

148 

149 

149 

150 

149 

150 

151 

151 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 

“WHAT  TO  DO”  AND  “HOW  TO 


236 


‘‘WHAT  TO  DO”  AND  “HOW  TO 
DO  IT” — Continued. 

Bluing  for  Clothes,  To  Make 210 

Boots,  To  Dry  198 

Bottles  and  Cruets,  To  Clean  204 

Brass  or  Copper  Kettles,  To  Clean...  206 
Breath,  Smell  of  Onions  to  Remove 

from  197 

Burning  Lamp  Wicks,  To  Destroy 

Odor  of  197 

Butter,  To  Keep  for  Winter  Use 202 

Cabbage  Worms  203 

Cabbages,  To  Keep 209 

Calicoes,  Cambrics  and  Muslins,  To 

Wash  203 

Canker  Worms  217 

Carpet  Bugs,  To  Kill  211 

Carpet  Cleaner  197 

Carpets,  To  Clean  196 

Caterpillars  212 

Celery  Pest  or  Little  Negro  Bug 217 

Celery,  To  Keep  208 

Cellars,  To  Keep  Clean  208 

Cement  for  Broken  China 203 

Cement  for  China,  Marble  and  Glass- 
ware   205 

Cement,  Diamond  202 

Cement  for  Glass  and  Iron  198 

Cement  for  All  Kinds  of  Articles,  A 

Good  205 

Cement  for  Rubber  or  Leather  202 

Cement  for  Wood,  Ivory,  Stone,  Porce- 
lain, Leather,  Silk,  Woolen  or  Cotton  202 

Cement  for  China  and  Glass 203 

Chromos,  To  Clean  204 

Cinch  Bugs  212 

Cistern  Water,  To  Purify 197 

Cloth,  To  Remove  Acid  Spots  from..  206 
Cloth,  To  Remove  Alkali  Spots  from  207 
Clothes,  How  They  are  Cleaned  by 

Those  Who  Make  it  a Business 217 

Clothing,  To  Clean  Mud  From  197 

Clothing,  To  Remove  Bad  Smells  from  204 
Clothing,  To  Remove  Paint  from  ....  206 
Coat  Collars  and  Seams  and  Elbows, 

To  Clean  and  Remove  Gloss  from..  202 

Coffee  Pots,  Care  of  204 

Coffee  Stains,  To  Remove  198,  209 

Colorado  Beetle  or  Potato  Bug 212 

Concrete  21 1 

Cooking  Utensils,  Treatment  of  New. . 203 

Corks  205 

Corn  Moth  212 

Cranberries,  To  Keep  208 

Cucumber  Beetles  217 

Currant  Worms  and  Rose  Slugs,  To 

Destroy  203 

Cut  Worms  217 

Cutlery,  To  Prevent  Rusting  of 205 

Dyeing  and  Coloring 213 

Cotton  Goods  213 

Black  213 

Blue  213 

Brown  for  Cotton,  Woolen  or  Silk  213 


DO  IT’ — Continued. 

Green  2154 

Orange 214 

Red  214 

Sky  Blue  for  Cotton  or  Silk 213 

Yellov/  213 

Silk  Goods 215 

Black  215 

Brown  215 

Crimson 215 

Green  215 

Light  Blue  215 

Orange 215 

Sky  Blue  215 

Yellow 215 

Woolen  Goods  214 

Blue  214 

Brown  214 

Chrome  Black  214 

Crimson 214 

Green  214 

Orange  214 

Pink  214 

Scarlet  214 

Yellow  214 

Eggs,  To  Preserve  197 

Feathers,  To  Clean  209 

Feathers,  To  Curl  210 

Feathers,  To  Restore  209 

Fire  Kindler  203,  206 

Flannels,  To  Wash 199 

Flannels,  To  Wash  and  Dry 203 

Fleas,  To  Drive  Away 204 

Flies,  To  Get  Rid  of  200 

Flies,  To  Keep  Off  Gilt  Frames 204 

Fresh  Paint,  To  Remove  Smell  of 204 

Fruit  Jars,  To  Loosen  Covers  of  203 

Fruit  Stains,  To  Remove 198 

Furniture  Dressing  196 

Furniture  Polish  199 

Furniture  Polish,  An  Excellent 198 

Furs,  To  Clean  Dark 217 

Furs,  To  Clean  Light  217 

Gilt  Frames,  To  Clean  202 

Glass,  To  Bore  Holes  in  212 

Glass,  To  Clean  199 

Glass,  To  Cut  or  Break  in  Any  Shape  212 

Glass  Decanter,  To  Clean  a 199 

Glass,  To  Remove  Panes  of  199 

Glass,  Stoppers,  To  Remove  Tight 206 

Gloves,  To  Clean  Kid  199 

Gloves,  To  Clean  Light  199 

Gloves,  To  Clean  Silk  and  Thread...  207 

Glue,  Liquid  202,  211 

Gnats  199 

Gold  Chains,  Etc.,  To  Clean  21 1 

Grafting  Wax  203 

Grain  Weevil  212 

Grapes,  To  Keep  209 

Grass  Stains,  To  Remove  199 

Grease,  To  Remove  199 

Grease,  To  Remove  from  Floor  199 

Grease,  To  Remove  from  Wood  Be- 


CULINARY  INDEX. 


237 


•WHAT  TO  DO”  AND  “HOW  TO 
DO  IT  ”^Continued. 

fore  Painting  205 

Grease,  To  Take  Out  of  Woolens, 

Silks,  Paper,  Floors,  Etc 207 

Greasy  Skillets,  To  Wash  203 

Grubs 217 

Handy  Tables  for  Cooks 218 

Butter  218 

Eggs  218 

Flour  218 

Sugar 218 

Hard  Water,  To  Soften  201,  204 

Hay,  To  Measure  211 

Herbs,  To  Keep  All  Kinds  of  208 

Hessian  Fly 212 

Hinges,  To  Keep  from  Creaking 204 

Ink,  To  Remove  from  Linen  198 

Ink  Spots  197 

Ink  Stains,  To  Remove 199 

Insects  Such  as  Bed  Bugs,  Moths,  Etc., 


Interest,  A Quick  and  Easy  Way  to 

Compute  215 

Iron  Rust,  To  Remove  from  Clothing  207 

Iron  or  Steel,  To  Polish  206 

Iron  Vessels,  To  Mend  197 

Ironing  199 

Jewelry,  To  Clean 201 

Kerosene  and  Grease  Spots,  To  Take 

from  Carpets  204 

Kerosene,  To  Remove 198 

Kitchen  Floors,  Tables  and  Wooden 

Articles,  To  Qean 204 

Knives,  To  Clean 206 

Lace  Curtains,  To  Wash 208 

Lace,  To  Clean  Black  207 

Laces,  Washing  208 

Lamp  Chimneys  and  Other  Glassware, 

To  Temper  205 

Lamp  Chimneys,  To  Clean  198,  199 

Lemons,  To  Keep  208 

Lightning  Cream  for  Clothes  or  Paint  205 

Linen  Collars  and  Cuffs,  To  Stiffen..  206 

Linen  Stains,  To  Remove  201 

Linoleum  or  Oil  Cloth,  To  Clean 197 

Machine  Oil,  To  Take  Out 206 

Magic  Annihilator 210 

Magic  Furniture  Polish 205 

Mice,  To  Keep  Away  200 

Mildew,  To  Remove 201 

Miscellaneous  Weights  216 

Mosquitoes  and  Flies  201 

Mosquitoes  and  Flies,  To  Prevent 

Bites  from  200 

Moths  200 

Muslin,  To  Bleach  208 

Muslins,  To  Wash  Delicate  Colored..  207 

Mucilage  209 

Neckties  and  Other  Goods  that  Fade, 

To  Wash  207 

Oil  Goth,  To  Clean  and  Keep  Nice...  197 

Onion  Maggots  217 

Oniona^  To  Koep  208 


“WHAT  TO  DO”  AND  “HOW  TO 
DO  IT” — Continued. 

Pails  and  Tubs,  To  Keep  from  Shrink- 
ing   204 

Paint  Spots,  To  Remove  from  Win- 
dows   203 

Paint  Stains,  To  Remove  from  Cotton 

and  Wool  197 

Paint  and  Varnish,  To  Remove  Old..  199 

Painted  Surfaces,  To  Wash  200 

Parsley,  To  Keep  Green  and  Fresh...  208 

Parsnips  and  Salsify,  To  Keep  208 

Patent  Leather,  To  Polish 199 

Peas,  To  Keep  for  Winter  Use 209 

Piano  Polish  200 

Plant  Lice  217 

Plates,  Cleaning  Before  Washing 197 

Potatoes,  To  Keep  209 

Rancid  Butter,  To  Sweeten 21 1 

Rats,  To  Drive  Away  200 

Rats,  To  Drive  Away  Without  Killing  200 

Red  Ants,  A Preventive  for 200 

Red  Ants,  To  Drive  Away 204,  205 

Red  Table  Linen,  To  Wash 207 

Ribbons,  To  Wash  203 

Roaches,  To  Exterminate 198 

Roaches,  To  Kill  204 

Round  Tank,  To  Find  the  Number  of 

Gallons  in 2i6 

Rust  197 

Rust,  To  Prevent  202 

Rust,  To  Remove  from  Plows  and 

Other  Steel  Implements  206 

Rusty  Wash  Boilers,  To  Clean  206 

Scale  217 

Scorches,  To  Remove  from  Cloth 201 

Scorching  When  Ironing,  To  Prevent  199 

Screws,  To  Loosen  200 

Spiling  Wax,  To  Remove  210 

Shirts,  Silver  Polish  for 207 

Silver  Polish  205 

Silver,  To  Clean  201 

Silver,  To  Clean  Blackened 200 

Silverware,  To  Keep  204 

Silverware,  To  Remove  Egg  Stains 

from  205 

Slugs  217 

Soap,  Hard  201 

Soap,  Patent  210 

Soap,  Soft  201 

Soot,  To  Remove 200 

Sponge,  To  Clean  a 204 

Squash  Bugs  217 

Stains  Caused  by  Scorching,  To  Re- 
move   201 

Stains,  To  Remove  from  Clothing 199 

Steel  Knives,  To  Keep  from  Rusting  198 
Stove  Polish,  Brilliant  Self-Shining. . 210 

Strawberry  Worms  212 

Straw  Hats,  To  Clean  217 

Table,  A Handy  216 

Table  of  Apothecaries  Weight 216 

Table  of  Avoirdupois  Weight 216 

Table  of  Fluid  Measures 216 


238 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECIPE  BOOK. 


**WHAT  TO  DO”  AND  “HOW  TO 
DO  IT” — Continued. 

Table  of  Liquid  Measure 

Table  of  Troy  Weight  

Tableware,  To  Remove  Taste  of  Fish 

from 

Tan,  To  Remove  

Tar,  To  Remove  

Tar,  Wagon  Grease,  Mixtures  of  Fat, 
Carbon  and  Acetic  Acid,  To  Remove 

Teakettle,  The  

Tea  Stains,  To  Remove 

Tight  Shoe,  A 

Time  Table  for  Cooks 

Tin  Teakettles,  To  Brighten  

Tin,  To  Mend  

Tinware,  To  Clean  

Tobacco  Pipes,  To  Clean  

Turnips,  To  Keep  

Vegetables,  To  Keep  

Vegetables,  The  Temperature  at  Which 

They  Should  be  Kept  

Velvet,  To  Clean  

Velvet,  To  Restore  

Wall  or  Building,  How  to  Find  the 

Number  of  Common  Bricks  in 

Wall  Paper  Cleaner  

Wall  Paper,  To  Clean  

Washing  Black  and  White  Calicoes... 

Washing  Blankets  

Washing  Fluid  

Washing  Fluid,  Gem  

Washing  Pink  and  Green  Calicoes  . . . 

Washing  Purple  or  Blue  

Washing  Windows  

Water,  To  Purify  

Water,  To  Soften  

Water-proof  Paper  Covering  for  Jars, 

Used  in  Preserving,  Etc 

Weights  and  Measures  


216 

216 

205 

198 

210 

212 

204 

200 
197 
218 

205 
205 

201 
212 

208 

209 


209 

207 

205 

216 

196 

205 
203 
198 
196 
201 
203 
203 
203 

201 

206 

206 

202 


“WHAT  TO  DO”  AND  “HOW  TO 
DO  IT  ” — Continued. 

Welding,  Blacksmith’s  Borax  for  ....  196 

Whitewash  for  Cellars  208 

Whitewash,  Hard  204 

White  Zypher,  To  Clean  206 

W'^indow  Frames,  To  Remove  Dry 

Putty  from  204 

Window  i^anes.  To  Frost  200 

Windows,  Icy  204 

Wire  Tableware,  Care  of  205 

W^ood,  to  Petrify 212 

Woolen  and  Silk  Goods,  To  Clean....  207 

Woolen  Goods,  To  Remove  Grease 

from  198 

Woolens,  To  Dry  Without  Shrinking  200 

W^rinkles,  To  Remove  198 

W'hitewash  for  Cellars  208 

Whitewash,  Hard 204 

White  Zephyr,  To  Clean  206 

Window  Frames,  To  Remove  the  Putty 

FROM  204 

Window  Panes,  To  Frost 200 

Windows,  Icy 204 

W'iRE  Tableware,  Care  of 205 

W’ooD,  To  Petrify 212 

Woolen  and  Silk  Dress  Goods,  To 

Clean  207 

\\''ooLEN  Goods,  To  Remove  Grease  from  198 

Woolens,  To  Dry  Without  Shrinking  200 

Wrinkles,  To  Remove  198 

Y 

Yeast  106 

YFAST,  RECIPES  FOR  MAKING....  108 

Beer  ^ 

Hop  io»^ 

Potato  108 

Starter  108 


m'*-' 

i\  . 


.*  ; 


) 


C 


. i 
• ■ 

'i 

I 


iv 


i 

V 


X 


■ \ 


‘f,  , •,  ■ 

''iu  'J  ■; 


BOOK  III 

or  THE 

PEOPLE.  *S 
HOME 
LIBRARY 


BY 


W.CFAIR  VS. 


VETERINARY  EDITOR  OF  BOTH  “THE  OHIO 
FARMER” an d“the  MICHIGAN  FARMER? 
FORMERLY  PRESIDENT  OF  BOTH  THE 
CLEVELAND  and  jHE  OHIO  STATE 
VETERINARY  MEDICAL  ASSOCIATIONS. 
CONSULTING  VETERINARIAN  OF  THE 
CLEVELAND  HUMANE  SOCIETY  FOR  THIRTY 
YEARS. PRESIDENT  OFTHESOCIETY  FOR  THE 
• PREVENTION  OF  CRUELTY  TO  ANIMALS. 


CLEVELAND.OHIO. 


PU5LISHED  BY 

THE  R.C.BARNUMCO, 

CLEVELAND,  OHIO. 


IQ13 


*’  of ! Library  Chamoaion-Urbana 


Copyrighted  1910, 

BY 

R.  C.  BARNUM. 
All  Rights  Reserved. 


i v:. 


► 

L 


x l-  4 Vo  C>;  i U " i ‘ '«  o ^ ‘ ' 


* V. 


/ 


> 


'Ti 


(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


AUTHOR’S  PREFACE 


Having  been  Veterinary  Editor  of  the  “ Ohio  Farmer  ” for  about  thirty 
years  and  of  the  “ Michigan  Farmer  ’’  for  nearly  fifteen  years,  I have  prob- 
ably had  more  correspondence  with  Farmers  and  Stock  Owners  pertaining 
to  the  ailments,  feeding,  and  breeding  of  live  stock  than  has  any  other 
Veterinarian  in  the  country.  During  these  many  years  of  connection  with 
these  Standard  Farm  Journals  I have  answered  over  a quarter  of  a million 
inquiries  concerning  the  diseases  and  care  of  domestic  animals.  Many  of 
these  questions  have  been  concerning  things  either  improperly  treated  or  not 
treated  at  all  in  the  stock  books  in  use  among  the  farmers.  Thus,  I believe 
I am  in  a position  to  know  just  what  the  farmer  and  stockman  need  and 
my  years  of  experience  have  perhaps  fitted  me  for  treating  these  subjects 
in  a way  easily  understood  by  every  person  in  the  country. 

Many  of  the  stock  books  in  common  use  have  been  written  by  college 
professors  or  retired  veterinarians  who  perhaps  had  a great  deal  of  scientific 
knowledge  but  were  lacking  in  actual  experience  and  consequently  most 
of  their  books  have  been  written  in  language  not  easily  understood  by  the 
average  person.  I have  long  seen  the  need  of  a practical  book  of  this  kind 
and  have  tried  to  make  this  work  thoroughly  scientific  and  yet  so  simple  and 
practical  that  it  can  be  used  by  every  stock  owner  in  the  land. 

This  work  has  been  written  at  my  Veterinary  Hospital  at  Cleveland 
while  actively  engaged  in  my  extensive  practice.  Though  it  has  been  with 
difficulty  that  I have  found  time  for  the  work,  yet  after  several  years  of  dili- 
gent work  and  research  I have  finally  succeeded  in  completing  my  task 
and  believe  that  the  book  will  be  found  all  the  more  practical  for  having 
been  written  while  thus  actively  engaged  in  my  practice.  The  merits  of 
every  remedy  prescribed  in  this  book  I have  thoroughly  tested  and  tried 
in  my  practice  and  at  my  hospital  and  having  been  President  of  both  the 
Cleveland  and  the  Ohio  State  Veterinary  Medical  Associations  I have  been 
enabled  to  learn  how  these  remedies  effected  cures  in  the  hands  of  the  Vet- 
erinary Profession  in  general.  Also,  having  been  Consulting  Veterinarian 
for  The  Cleveland  Humane  Society  for  thirty  years  and  for  some  time  Presi- 
dent of  The  Society  for  the  Prevention  of  Cruelty  to  Animals,  I have  been 
afforded  an  excellent  opportunity  to  study  sick  and  disabled  animals.  Many 
of  the  illustrations  found  in  this  work  are  actual  photographs  taken  from 
life  of  cases  that  have  been  brought  to  my  Veterinary  Hospital  for  treat- 
ment and  care  and  among  these  cases  have  been  some  of  the  most  celebrated 
horses  in  the  world.  These  illustrations  have  been  procured  at  the  cost 
of  much  time  and  money  and  I believe  they  will  be  found  of  great  value  in 
determining  the  diseases  of  stock.  A horse  can  not  tell  you  what  the  trouble 
is,  but  these  pictures  will  aid  you  in  locating  the  ailment. 

Though  I have  given  what  I considered  the  best  and  simplest  remedies, 
yet  in  many  instances  I have  seen  fit  to  add  to  my  own  treatment  of  the 
disease  various  “ People’s  Home  Remedies  ” which  have  been  gathered 
from  practical  farmers  and  stock  owners  of  many  different  states.  These 


1 


11 


PREFACE. 


are  practical  and  reliable  remedies  that  have  been  in  use  for  years  among 
successful  stockmen  and  many  of  them  I use  and  prescribe  in  my  own 
practice. 

Though  the  purchaser  may  have  other  stock  books  in  the  home,  I 
believe  this  work  will  be  found  worth  many  times  the  price  paid  for  it,  as 
it  is  really  in  answer  to  the  quarter  of  a million  inquiries  sent  me  during 
the  last  thirty  years  by  both  the  farmers  and  veterinarians  of  the  United 
States  and  Canada  and  consequently  contains  much  practical  information  not 
found  in  other  books  in  general  use  among  stockmen. 

It  was  my  original  plan  to  keep  everything  of  a “ personal  nature  out 
of  the  book,  but  the  publishers  have  convinced  me  that  the  public  desire  to 
know  something  of  the  author  and  his  practical  experience  ” and  for 
this  reason  I have  occasionally  cited  personal  experiences  where  I thought 
the  purpose  would  be  better  served  or  the  point  made  clearer.  It  has  been 
my  aim  to  make  this  book  full  and  complete  for  practical  use  and  yet  I 
have  endeavored  to  condense  it  as  much  as  possible  by  giving  in  one  line 
the  information  that  one  so  often  has  to  search  through  many  pages  to  dis- 
cover. I trust  that  it  will  be  found  complete  and  reliable  and  yet  simple 
and  practical. 


THE  AUTHOR. 


CONTENTS 


Author’s  Preface i 

THE  HORSE 1 

Conformation  and  Good  Points,  Also  Defects  and  Blemishes. 1 

Breaking,  Training  and  Handling  Horses  3 

Diseases  of  the  Digestive  Organs  15 

Diseases  of  the  Respiratory  or  Breathing  Organs  35 

Diseases  of  the  Urinary  Organs  43 

Diseases  of  the  Generative  Organs  of  Both  the  Horse  and  Mare 47 

Diseases  of  the  Skin  55 

Diseases  and  Injuries  of  the  Eye  and  Ear 61 

Diseases  of  the  Nervous  System  64 

Lameness  71 

Wounds  84 

Diseases  of  the  Fetlock,  Ankle  and  Foot 91 

Various  Diseases  101 

CATTLE  112 

Anatomy  of  Cattle,  Etc 112 

Diseases  of  the  Digestive  Organs 116 

Diseases  of  the  Respiratory  or  Breathing  Organs  133 

Diseases  of  the  Urinary  Organs 138 

Diseases  of  the  Generative  Organs  140 

Diseases  of  the  Skin  155 

Diseases  of  the  Eye  and  Ear  161 

Contagious  Diseases  164 

Various  Diseases 170 

SHEEP  • 181 

Diseases  of  the  Digestive  Organs 181 

Diseases  of  the  Respiratory  or  Breathing  Organs  187 

Diseases  of  the  Generative  Organs  190 

Various  Diseases  193 

HOGS  198 

Diseases  of  the  Digestive  Organs  198 

Diseases  of  the  Respiratory  or  Breathing  Organs  209 

Diseases  of  the  Skin  213 

Diseases  of  the  Generative  Organs 217 

Various  Diseases 219 

POULTRY  224 

HOUSEHOLD  PETS  236 

Dogs 236 

Cats  241 

Useful  Stable  Drugs  246 

Fifty  Modern  Prescriptions 251 

Stock  Foods,  Condition  Powders  and  Poultry  Foods 256 

Useful  Instruments  and  Tools 258 

Breeding  and  Feeding  Live  Stock  for  Profit 261 

Tricks  of  Horse  Traders 267 

Glossary  270 

Supplement 292 

Index 295 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


PAGE 

Portrait  of  W.  C.  Fair,  V.  S Frontispiece 

Home  of  the  ^"Ohio  Farmer”  Opposite  I 

Home  OF  THE  Michigan  Farmer”  Opposite  I 

The  I loss  Opposite  i 

Points  of  the  Horse  Opposite  2 

The  Horse  in  Slings  Opposite  3 

Comfortabe  Quarters  for  Sick  Animals  Opposite  3 

Circulatory  Apparatus  of  the  Horse  Opposite  12 

Dr.  Fair  Giving  a Horse  Medicine  with  a Syringe  Opposite  14 

Digestive  Apparatus  of  the  Horse  Opposite  15 

Dr.  Fair  Tapping  a Horse  for  Bloat  or  Flatulent  Colic  Opposite  17 

Fjrst  Stages  of  Spasmodic  Colic  Opposite  18 

Severe  Spasmodic  Colic  Opposite  18 

Cerebro-Spinal  Meningitis  Opposite  18 

Infammation  of  the  Bowels  Opposite  18 

Purpura  Hemorrhagica  Opposite  18 

Tetanus  or  Lockjaw  Opposite  18 

Horse  Backed  in  Stall  Ready  for  Operation  Opposite  30 

Horse  in  Simply  Constructed  Stocks  Ready  for  Operation  Opposite  30 

Various  Intestin.vl  Worms  Opposite  31 

Bots  in  Horse's  Stomach  and  Intestine  Opposite  31 

Respiratory  Apparatus  of  the  Horse  Opposite  35 

Pneumonia  or  Lung  Fever  Opposite  45 

Azoturia  Opposite  45 

POSITIONS  OF  FOAL  AT  BIRTH  Opposite  47 

Vertebro-Sacral  Presentation  Opposite  47 

Lumbo-Sacral  Presentation  Opposite  47 

Casting  a Horse  Opposite  52 

Restraining  a Vicious  Horse  While  Clipping  Opposite  52 

Nervous  System  of  the  Horse  Opposite  64 

Foot  Lameness  Opposite  71 

Grease  FIeel  Opposite  71 

Shoulder  Lameness  Opposite  71 

Bruised  Knee  Opposite  71 

Acute  Farcy  or  Glanders  Opposite  71 

Water  Farcy  or  Lymphangitis  Opposite  71 

Open  Joint  Opposite  71 

Muscles  and  Tendons  of  the  Horse  Opposite  73 

Skeleton  of  the  Horse  Opposite  75 

Spavin  Opposite  77 

Splint  Opposite  77 

Ring-Bone  Opposite  77 

Capped  Hock  .' Opposite  79 

Bog  Spavin  Opposite  79 

Curb  Opposite  79 

Bone  Spavin  Opposite  79 

Splint  Opposite  79 

Bowed  Tendons  Opposite  79 

Side  Bone  Opposite  79 

Line  Firing  Opposite  79 

Ring-Bone  Opposite  79 

Fracture  of  the  Femur  Opposite  81 

Inflammation  of  the  Kidneys  Opposite  81 

Sprain  of  the  Patella  Ligaments  Opposite  8i 

Dislocation  of  the  Patella — Stifled  Opposite  81 

Cold  Ascess,  Sitfast,  Bog  Spavin  and  Thoroughpin  Opposite  81 

Inflammation  of  the  Bladder  Opposite  81 

Knee-Sprung!  Opposite  84 

Wind  Puffs  or  Bursal  Enlargements  Opposite  84 

Distemper  or  Regular  Strangles  Opposite  88 


IV 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS— Continued. 


V 


PAGE 

Poll- Evil  Opposite  88 

Fistulous  Withers  Opposite  88 

Big  Head— Osteo  Porosis  Opposite  88 

Weaknesss  of  Ligaments  Lower  Joints  Opposite  88 

A Typical  Foundered  Foot  Opposite  88 

Section  of  the  Hoof  and  Pastern  Opposite  91 

Irregular  Strangles  Opposite  98 

Congestion  of  Lungs  Opposite  98 

Effects  of  Sunstroke  Opposite  98 

Acute  Laminitis  (Foundered)  Opposite  98 

Azotttrta  Opposite  98 

Impaction  of  Large  Bowel  Opposite  98 

Elephantiasis  Opposite  104 

Nasal  Gleet  and  Manner  of  Poulticing  Lungs  in  Lung  Troubles  Opposite  104 

Dr.  Fair  Drenching  an  Unruly  Cow Opposite  112 

Dr.  Fair  Tapping  a Cow  for  Hoven  or  Bloat  Opposite  116 

Skeleton  of  the  Cow  Opposite  120 

Stomach  of  the  Cow  Opposite  120 

Texas  Fever  Opposite  140 

Inflammation  of  the  Womb  (Metritis)  Opposite  140 

Milk  Fever  or  Parturient  Apoplexy  Opposite  140 

Parturient  Peritonitis  Opposite  140 

Impaction  of  the  Manyplies  Opposite  140 

Lump-Jaw  Opposite  140 

A Simple  Way  to  Throw  a Cow  Opposite  170 

Dr.  Fair  Giving  Medicine  to  a Sheep Opposite  181 

Sheep  Scab  Opposite  198 

Lamb  with  Stomach  Worms  Opposite  198 

Rickets  in  Pigs  Opposite  198 

Hog  Cholera  Opposite  198 

How  to  Give  Medicine  to  a Hog  Opposite  217 

Spaying  a Sow  Opposite  217 

Roup  Opposite  224 

Scabies  Opposite  224 

Gapes  Opposite  224 

Gape  Worms  in  Windpipe  Opposite  224 

Cholera  Opposite  224 

Scaly  Leg  Opposite  224 

‘‘A”  Coop  Opposite  227 

Portable  Colony  Houses  Opposite  227 

Open  Front  Poultry  House  Opposite  227 

Plans  for  Open  Front  Poultry  House  Opposite  230 

Plans  for  "A”  Coop  Opposite  230 

Plans  for  Portable  Colony  House  Opposite  230 

Dr.  Fair  Caponizing  a Rooster  Opposite  233 

John  D.  Rockefeller's  Great  Dane  Watch  Dog  Opposite  236 

Dr.  Fair's  Imported  Scotch  Collie  Opposite  236 

Where  the  Pets  are  Treated  akd  Cared  for Opposite  241 

A Corner  in  the  Dog  Hospital  Opposite  241 

A Corner  in  the  Cat  Hospital  Opposite  241 

Feeding  Time’ for  the  Pets  Opposite  241 

A Corner  in  Dr.  Fair's  Drug  Shop  Opposite  246 

The  Twentieth  Century  Way  of  Making  Veterinary  Calls  Opposite  246 

Useful  Instruments  and  Tools  for  the  Stock  Farm  (31  Illustrations) Opposite  258 

Useful  Veterinary  Surgical  Instruments  (35  Illustrations) Opposite  259 

The  Canadian  Stock  Farm  Where  Dr.  Fair  Spent  His  Boyhood  Days Opposite  261 

Dr.  Fair’s  ^‘Mentor  Stock  Farm"  Opposite  261 

A Barny.^rd  Scene  Opposite  267 

Dr.  Fair's  Boyhood  Home  in  Canada  Opposite  270 

Dr.  Fair's  Euclid  Avenue  Home  in  Cleveland,  Ohio  Opposite  270 

Dr.  Fair  Dictating  Letters  to  Stock  Owners  Opposite  292 

Answering  Correspondence  Opposite  292 


(Photog-raphcd  at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hosi)ital  e.specially  for  this  book.) 


THE 

l.ovc  the  TToss  from  hoof  to  licad. 
From  head  to  ho(;f  and  tail  to  mane. 

I love  the  lioss,  as  I have  said, 

From  head  to  hoof  and  back  again. 


HOSS. 

I love  my  God  the  fnsl  of  all, 

'rhen  him  that  i>erished  on  the  Cross; 
And  next  my  wife  and  then  1 fall 
Down  on  my  knees  and  love  the  I loss. 

— Janu’s  U'hiU'omb  Riley. 


THE  HORSE 


CONFORMATION  AND  GOOD  POINTS,  ALSO  DEFECTS  AND 

BLEMISHES. 


CONFORMATION  AND  GOOD  POINTS. 

Tlie  head  should  not  be  too  large  but  with  considerable  width  between 
#ne  eyes.  The  eye  should  show  but  little  white,  have  a mild  expression  and 
be  clear  and  well  developed.  The  face  should  be  lean ; the  nostrils  large  and 
somewhat  open  and  the  m.uzzle  should  not  be  too  large  but  there  should 
be  considerable  width  between  the  angles  of  the  lower  jaw.  The  ears  should 
be  carried  erect  and  be  of  moderate  size.  The  neck  should  be  long,  narrow, 
arched  and  moderately  deep.  The  shoulders  should  be  well  developed  and 
considerably  wider  than  the  neck.  The  elbows  should  not  turn  in  and  the 
arm  should  be  long  and  quite  muscular.  The  knee  should  be  broad  in  front, 
tapering  back,  but  straight,  for  if  too  far  back  it  resembles  a cow’s  leg  and 
if  too  far  forward  the  horse  is  knee  sprung.  The  shin  bone  should  be  flat 
and  wide  from  front  to  back ; the  fetlock  should  be  large  and  the  fetlocks 
should  stand  at  an  angle  with  the  floor  of  about  45  or  50  degrees.  The  foot 
should  not  be  too  small  and  should  be  shaped  like  a bell.  The  fore  part  of 
the  shoulder  should  afiford  a comfortable  resting  place  for  the  collar  and  the 
withers  should  be  strong,  well  developed,  and  not  too  round.  The  breast 
should  be  full  and  wide ; the  chest  should  be  large ; the  body  should  not  be 
too  slender;  the  back  should  not  be  too  long  or  too  low  (sway  back)  and 
the  loin  should  be  well  developed.  The  last  rib  should  come  well  back. 
The  hips  should  be  wide,  muscular,  and  not  drooped  too  much.  The  tail 
should  be  wide  at  dock,  tapering,  and  muscular;  it  should  also  be  carried 
away  from  the  body.  The  hind  quarters  should  come  close  together,  espe- 
cially around  the  anus.  The  quarters  should  be  thick  and  muscular  and  the 
thigh  heavy  and  tapering  downward.  The  hock  should  be  broad,  clean  and 
flat;  a short,  flat  shin  bone  is  preferable;  the  fetlock  should  be  strong  and 
not  set  too  far  forward;  the  pastern  should  be  of  medium  length  and  the 
foot  not  too  small. 


DEFECTS  AND  BLEMISHES. 

Defects  and  blemishes  are  the  result  of  either  predisposing  (hereditary)' 
or  exciting  causes,  showing  on  the  external  parts  of  the  body.  For  con- 
venience they  may  be  classified  as  diseases  of  the  bones,  synovial  mem- 
branes, muscles,  tendons,  ligaments,  skin  and  also  diseases  of  the  foot. 

Diseases  of  the  Bones. 

Ring-bone. — Location : Between  hoof  and  fetlock  joint. 

Bone  Spavin. — Location : Lower,  inner  and  fore  part  of  hock  joint. 

Splints. — Location : On  the  shin,  generally  high  up  on  inside. 

Sidebones. — Location:  Always  on  back  part  of  coronet. 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Diseases  of  Synovial  Membranes. 

Sjmovitis. — Location : In  the  joints  or  sheaths  of  tendons. 

Bog  Spavin. — Location : Fore  part  of  hock  joint. 

Wind  Puffs  or  Windgalls. — Location:  On  upper  and  outer  part  of  fet- 
lock joint. 

Bursal  Enlargements. — Location : In  various  parts  of  the  limbs  where 
the  tendons  run. 

Thoroughpin. — Location : On  the  outer  and  inner  part  of  hock  joint. 

Diseases  of  the  Muscles,  Tendons,  Ligaments  and  Skin. 
Break-down. — Location : Between  shin  bone  and  back  tendons. 

• Bowed  Tendons. — Location : Back  part  of  leg  between  fetlock  and  kno^. 
Curb. — Location : On  the  lower  and  back  part  of  hock. 

Capped  Hock. — Location : On  the  upper  and  back  part  of  hock. 
Capped  Elbow  or  Elbow  Tumor  (Shoe  boil). — Location:  On  the  back 
part  of  elbow  joint. 

Broken  Knee. — Location:  Fore  part  of  knee  joint. 

Sprung  Knees. — Location:  Knees;  the  tilting  forward  of  knee  joint. 
Cocked  Ankles. — Location:  Fetlocks;  the  tilting  forward  of  fetlock  joints. 
Collar  Galls. — Location : The  collar-bearing  surface  of  shoulder. 

Saddle  Galls. — Location:  On  back  where  saddle  rests. 

Cinch  Galls. — Location:  Under  saddle  girth. 

Fistula. — Location:  Upper  part  of  withers. 

Poll-evil. — Location : Upper  part  of  neck  and  back  part  of  head. 

Sweeny. — Location:  Generally  shoulder,  hip  or  leg. 

Warts. — Location:  Generally  about  the  head,  neck  and  udder. 

Canker. — Location : Mouth,  ears  and  heels. 

Sprains. — Location:  Shoulder,  back,  hip,  stifle,  hock,  ligaments  of  joints, 
tendons  of  leg  and  foot  (coffln  joint). 

Diseases  of  the  Foot. 

Navicular  Disease. — Location : Coffin  joint,  within  foot. 

Founder  or  Chronic  Laminitis. — Location : Sensitive  laminae  of  feet. 
Quarter  Crack. — Location : Back  and  outside  part  of  hoof. 

Toe  Cracks. — Location : Central  and  fore  part  of  hoof. 

Thrush. — Location : Between  the  insensitive  and  sensitive  frog. 

Corns. — Location : In  the  extreme  back  and  lower  part  of  sole. 

Quitter. — Location  : Usually  in  the  upper  part  of  coronet,  well  back. 
Seedy  Toe. — Location : Fore  part  of  hoof  and  toe. 

Contracted  Heels. — Location:  Heels. 


POINTS  OF  THE  HORSE. 


1. 

Lips. 

14. 

Jugular  channel. 

28. 

Point  of  Shoulder. 

40. 

Thigh. 

2. 

Muzzle. 

1."). 

Urea  St  (front  of 

2«a. 

.Shoulder. 

41. 

Stifle. 

3. 

Face. 

chest  1. 

28b. 

.\rni. 

42. 

Buttock. 

4. 

Forehead. 

10. 

Withers. 

29. 

Elbow. 

43. 

Gaskin. 

5. 

Eyebrows. 

17. 

Back. 

30. 

Forearm. 

44. 

Hock. 

(5. 

Forelock. 

18. 

Ribs  or  barrel. 

31. 

Chestnut. 

44a. 

Point  of  hock. 

7. 

Ears. 

19. 

Ciirth. 

32. 

Knee. 

45. 

Chestnut. 

8. 

Lower  jaw. 

20. 

I.oins. 

33. 

Can  non. 

40. 

Cannon. 

9. 

Cheek. 

21. 

Croup. 

34. 

Fetlock  joint. 

47. 

Fetlock  joint. 

10. 

Nostril. 

2‘> 

Tail. 

35. 

Pastern. 

4.8. 

Fetlock. 

11. 

Poll. 

23^ 

Dock. 

.30. 

Coronet. 

49. 

Pastern. 

11a. 

Throat. 

24. 

Flank. 

37. 

hjoot. 

.50. 

Coronet. 

12. 

Parotid. 

2o. 

Bellv. 

38. 

Fetlock. 

51. 

Foot. 

13. 

Neck. 

2(i" 

.Sheath. 

39. 

Point^of  the  hip. 

13a. 

Mane. 

27. 

Testicles. 

39a. 

Haunch. 

I LLUS'l'KATINC  'rill<:  CARR  ANl^)  MANAGEMENT  OF  SICK  AND  INJURED 

ANIMAT.S. 


THE  HORSE  IN  SLINGS. 

Good  slings  may  be  made  with  an  old  harness,  a piece  of  heavy  canvas  and  two 
singletrees. 


COM  EOR'I'ABLE  QUARTIH<S  1A)R  SICK  ANIMALS. 

This  is  a corner  of  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hospital.  Note  the  high  ceiling,  giving 
ample  air  s])ace  and  ventilation.  Also  note  sanitary  conditions  and  well  lighted 

stables.  A box  stall  is  to  tlie  left.  Sick  and  injured  animals  should  be  made  as  com- 
fortable as  })Ossible. 

(Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hosi)ital  esi)ecially  for  this  book.) 


BREAKING,  TRAINING  AND  HANDLING 

HORSES. 

(Including  Their  Feeding  and  Care.) 


BREAKING  AND  TRAINING. — The  most  successful  horse  breakers 
and  trainers  are  level-headed,  good-natured  and  thoughtful  men  and  they 
make  a study  of  every  particular  colt  or  horse  that  comes  under  their  care 
for  instruction.  They  believe  in  subduing  the  animal  by  kindness  rather  than 
by  force ; they  also  know  that  it  is  important  to  teach  certain  lessons  first,  also 
to  get  on  good  terms  with  the  animal. 

THE  FIRST  LESSON. — In  order  that  the  work  may  be  accomplished 
easily  a colt  should  be  halter  broke  when  it  is  a few  days  old,  or  not  allowed 
to  go  longer  than  two  or  three  weeks.  Put  a halter  on  the  colt  and  lead  the 
mare  and  the  colt  with  her.  Lead  the  colt  short  distances  to  and  from  the 
mare  and  also  in  a circle  within  her  view.  Teach  him  the  word  to  stop  and 
start,  lift  up  his  feet,  open  his  mouth,  avoid  frightening  him,  don’t  use  the 
whip  as  it  is  unnecessary.  Handle  him  often  enough  so  that  he  will  not  forget 
his  lessons  or  acquaintance  with  you.  When  halter  breaking  him  teach  him 
to  stand  tied  and  be  sure  to  use  a halter  that  he  cannot  break,  for  if  he  learns 
‘the  habit  of  breaking  loose  he  soon  becomes  a halter  puller.  It  is  not  a bad 
plan  to  tie  the  halter  strap  to  the  collar  of  his  mother’s  harness ; this  teaches 
him  to  walk  with  her  and  also  to  start  and  to  stop  when  the  words  are  spoken 
to  her.  The  older  and  stronger  a colt  is  when  you  attempt  to  halter  break 
him,  the  more  force  must  be  used ; besides,  it  takes  more  time  and  he  is  more 
likely  to  get  hurt. 

BITTING  A COLT. — This  is  one  of  the  most  important  parts  of  his  edu- 
cation, for  if  he  is  bitted  properly  he  will  drive  kindly  all  his  life;  therefore, 
plenty  of  time  should  be  given  to  this  part  of  his  education.  A bridle  with 
a smooth  bar  or  snaffle  bit  should  be  placed  in  his  mouth,  not  too  high  up, 
and  should  be  left  on  him  several  hours  a day  before  he  is  reined  up.  As  soon 
as  he  does  not  fight  the  bit  it  will  do  to  drive  him  with  a harness  and  teach 
him  to  be  guided  with  the  lines.  After  he  has  become  accustomed  to  this 
sort  of  work  hitch  him  to  a break  cart  and  be  sure  to  put  on  a kicking  strap. 
The  harness  and  cart  should  be  strong  enough  so  that  it  will  not  break  if  he 
plunges  or  stumbles  or  attempts  to  run  away.  A hopple  on  one  foot  with  a 
rope  attached  to  it,  held  in  the  hand  of  an  assistant,  will  prevent  his  running 
away.  The  length  of  time  it  takes  to  teach  him  to  drive  kindly  in  harness 
depends  very  much  upon  how  thorough  his  former  training  has  been,  but 
if  he  is  nicely  bitted  and  obeys  the  word  it  will  not  take  more  than  a few  days ; 
however,  the  colt  should  be  driven  slowly  several  miles  every  day  until  he  is 
thoroughly  broken.  It  is  always  a mistake  to  commence  the  education  of  a 
colt  and  then  not  continue  it  dailv  until  completed. 

HOW  TO  SADDLE  BREAK  A COLT.— First  of  all,  let  him  wear 
either  a saddle  or  a dummy  with  a bitting  rig,  then  he  becomes  accustomed 
to  something  on  his  back.  If  necessary  dress  up  a dummy  man  or  woman, 
put  it  on  his  back  and  lead  him  around  for  a few  days  until  he  becomes  accus- 


i 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PIOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


tomed  to  the  sight  of  a person  on  his  back ; then,  when  he  becomes  quiet  and 
appears  to  pay  no  attention  to  the  dummy,  a light  person  can  safely  ride  him. 
Many  colts  are  frightened  when  a person  attempts  to  mount  them  ; this  is  for 
want  of  proper  lessons  in  the  stall  where  they  should  all  be  given  to  under- 
stand they  are  not  going  to  be  hurt.  Another  mistake  that  is  frequently 
made  when  teaching  a colt  to  ride  is  the  rider’s  using  spurs  instead  of  the 
words  or  a gentle  tap  with  the  whip.  When  first  mounting  a colt  outdoors, 
have  him  hitched  to  a post  and  get  ofif  and  on  frequently  until  he  understands 
tliat  he  should  stand  still  until  you  are  safely  seated. 

EDUCATING  HORSES. — When  we  consider  what  remarkable  mem- 
ories horses  possess  and  what  respect  they  have  for  man  if  treated  kindly  by 
him,  we  should  not  feel  discouraged  at  the  simple  task  of  teaching  horses  to 
stand  without  hitching,  stop  and  start  when  they  are  told,  quicken  and  slow 
their  gait  at  the  word,  go  to  the  right  or  left  when  asked  and  to  back 
when  told,  without  the  use  of  reins.  During  my  younger  days  when  on  a 
stock  farm  in  Canada  I broke  steers  to  drive  and  work  and  also  colts,  and 
since  then  have  owned  a great  many  thousand  horses  and  have  used  several 
different  ones  almost  every  day  of  my  life.  Nearly  all  of  them  have  a differ- 
ent disposition  but  by  kindness  I have  managed  to  control  them  by  word.  An 
animal  should  be  talked  to  but  not  foolishly.  Say  to  them  what  you  want 
them  to  do,  show  them  how,  then  it  is  only  a question  of  a sufficient  number 
of  lessons  when  they  will  do  what  they  are  told.  I have  owned  horses  that 
could  be  driven  with  perfect  safety  through  the  streets  of  a city  without 
bridle,  bit  or  reins ; they  were  under  control  and  had  never  been  misused  or 
abused.  I know  hundreds  of  teamsters  that  are  on  good  terms  with  their 
horses  all  the  time  and  it  seems  a pleasure  for  their  horses  to  obey  their 
commands.  I had  the  pleasure  of  stabling  at  my  hospital  the  wonderful, 
educated  horse  “Jim  Key.”  During  the  two  weeks  that  the  horse  was  under 
my  care  I was  afforded  a splendid  opportunity  to  study  and  test  his  intelli- 
gence. Dr.  Key,  who  raised  and  educated  him,  told  me  that  it  required  some 
five  or  six  years  to  teach  him  what  he  knew;  it  was  all  done  by  kindness 
and  patience.  The  doctor  built  on  his  farm  in  Tennessee  a large  school 
room  and  allowed  no  one  else  to  even  feed  or  attempt  to  instruct  the  horse. 
In  educating  animals  the  teacher  must  be  thoughtful,  intelligent  and  kind  or 
he  will  prove  a failure  in  this  line  of  work. 

HOW  TO  SUBDUE  VICIOUS  HORSES.— The  different  professional 
horse  trainers  and  tamers  who  were  the  most  successful  in  handling  vicious 
horses  did  so  by  firmness  and  kindness,  but  usually  they  did  it  by  different 
methods  of  restraint,  such  as  using  bits  and  roping  them  and  casting  them 
frequently  until  the  animal  became  subdued,  then  the  trainer  resorted  to 
strategy  and  kindness.  Nearly  all  the  readers  of  this  book  must  have  heard 
of  the  Rarey  and  Gleason  methods  of  restraint  and  education  of  vicious  and 
tricky  horses.  They  applied  a bridle  that  would  stay  on,  used  different  kinds 
of  bits  for  different  animals  and  had  a very  simple  method  of  throwing  them, 
but  their  plan  was  to  keep  right  at  an  animal  until  the  brute  weakened  and 
surrendered  to  them,  then  they  took  him  step  by  step  until  the  animal  under- 
stood that  the  trainer  was  not  going  to  hurt  him,  and  I might  sav  right  here 
that  a timid,  cowardly  person  is  wholly  unfit  to  handle  and  subdue  vicious, 
willful  horses.  In  handling  a vicious  horse  the  trainer  must  possess  marked 
intuitiveness  and  be  able  to  interpret  the  thoughts  of  the  horse.  Further,  he 
must  use  methods  of  control  which  protect  himself  against  injury.  If  the 


HORSE-BREAKING,  TRAINING  AND  HANDLING. 


5 


horse  has  not  first  been  subdued  and  is  well  under  control  he  should  be 
hitched  to  a cart  that  he  cannot  easily  break.  Just  think  how  many  years 
Rarey,  Gleason  and  others  were  en^s^a^ed  in  this  most  hazardous  business  and 
they  were  seldom  hurt.  If  handlin.s^  a colt  that  is  not  halter  broke,  put  him 
in  a small  enclosure,  bridle  him,  move  him  from  side  to  side  and  around  the 
stall  or  pen,  then  throw  him  down  ; some  time  later  let  him  up.  This  soon 
quiets  the  colt’s  fears  and  he  learns  quickly  that  he  is  not  g:oin^  to  be  hurt. 
Handle  him  when  down,  not  forgetting  to  fuss  with  his  head  and  legs.  Let 
him  see  a harness  and  saddle,  then  move  it  over  his  body  and  legs  and  con- 
tinue at  this  until  he  becomes  familiar  with  the  sight  and  feeling  of  the 
harness.  It  must  be  understood  when  handling  vicious  horses  or  breaking 
colts  to  lead,  drive  and  ride  that  they  should  be  given  several  lessons  a day 
and  kept  at  it  until  they  drive  kindly.  Now,  in  taming  some  ugly  colts  and 
horses  it  is  well  to  strap  up  one  forefoot  and  make  them  stand  for  a time 
on  three  legs  or  hopple  the  forelegs  together  above  the  knee  or  use  trotting 
or  pacing  hopples  to  prevent  their  striking,  kicking  or  running  away.  It  is 
also  no  bad  plan  to  buckle  a strap  around  the  pastern  or  one  forefoot,  hitch 
a rope  or  strap  to  it  and  pass  it  through  a ring  fastened  to  the  surcingle  or 
belly  girth  and  then  if  he  attempts  to  run  away  you  can  bring  him  to  grief 
at  once  by  pulling  up  on  one  forefoot  and  making  him  stand  on  three  legs. 
Many  a vicious  colt  has  been  subdued  by  making  him  stand  for  hours  during 
the  day  with  one  foot  up  but  of  course  letting  it  down  occasionally.  A stub- 
born or  sulky  dispositioned  horse  is  very  often  benefited  by  a few  good 
lashes  with  a whip  that  stings,  this  should  be  done  more  with  a view  of  caus- 
ing pain.  However,  as  I have  said  before,  a whip,  if  used  at  all,  should  be 
handled  by  a level  headed  person  for  I find  that  many  horses  are  ruined  in 
disposition  and  their  value  depreciated  by  the  reckless  use  of  whips.  There 
should  always  be  the  right  sort  of  an  understanding  between  horse  and 
driver  and  when  this  exists  the  work  goes  on  nicely  without  balking  and 
sulking.  A stubborn,  sulky  horse,  when  he  refuses  to  pull  or  to  go  when  told 
should  have  his  attention  called  away  from  his  load;  this  is  accomplished  in 
various  ways;  sometimes  a handful  of  food,  a loud  noise,  a drink  of  water,  a 
handful  of  sand  placed  in  the  mouth  or  a little  water  dropped  in  the  ears  will 
produce  the  desired  results.  Remember,  you  cannot  pound  brains  into  a horse. 

CASTING. — In  performing  painful  surgical  operations  it  is  sometimes 
necessary  to  cast  the  horse.  This  can  be  done  in  a great  many  different  ways 
and  it  makes  little  difference  which  method  is  employed  when  throwing 
young  colts  or  horses,  but  old  horses  should  be  cast  with  caution  for  fear  of 
fracturing  their  backs.  It  always  makes  a difference  which  method  is  to  be 
used  according  to  what  sort  of  an  operation  is  to  be  performed.  For  castra- 
tion the  side-line  is  the  least  expensive  and  most  convenient  method.  This 
consists  in  using  a long  piece  of  rope  with  a loop  in  the  center  which  is  used 
for  a collar,  passing  the  two  ends  down  between  the  foreleg^s  and  either 
round  the  back  part  of  the  pastern  or  through  the  eye  of  a hopple,  then  pass- 
ing it  on  the  outside  of  body  through  the  loop.  Assistants  should  be  at  the 
head  of  the  animal  and  one  or  two  pulling  on  each  rope  soon  puts  the  colt 
down,  then  he  is  tied  bv  one-half  hitches  over  both  hind  and  forefeet.  Another 
common  method  is  hoppling,  which  consists  in  placing  one  hopple  round  each 
pastern  then  commencing  at  one  fore  quarter,  passing  the  rope  through  hop- 
ple eye  of  each  hopple,  then  pulling  the  forefeet  together  until  the  horse 
falls.  An  assistant  should  be  stationed  at  the  head.  Another  simple  method 


6 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


is  tying  up  one  forefoot,  passing  a strap  around  pastern  of  opposite  forefoot, 
then  pulling  up  the  foot.  The  horse,  dropping  on  his  knees,  soon  gets  tired 
of  this  position  and  lies  down.  When  on  his  knees,  the  halter  strap  should 
be  passed  along  the  opposite  side  of  the  neck  over  the  shoulder  and  pulled 
firmly  until  the  nose  is  pulled  around  on  neck  or  shoulder  and  if  held  in  this 
position  for  a short  time  he  is  inclined  to  roll  over  toward  you.  This  is 
a one-man  method  employed  by  Mr.  Magner.  The  Rarey  method  differs  by 
pulling  up  the  opposite  hind  foot  as  well  as  the  opposite  forefoot  and  when 
this  is  done  it  is  convenient  to  use  a surcingle  with  ring  to  pull  straps 
through.  There  are  many  other  methods  which  are  equally  simple  and  about 
as  effectual.  However,  space  will  not  permit  of  my  mentioning  more. 

KICKING  IN  HARNESS. — This  is  a habit  or  vice  that  is  usually  the 
result  of  poor  horsemanship,  improper  breaking  of  colts  or  allowing  horses 
to  remain  idle  so  long- that  they  become  playful  and  foolish,  commencing  the 
habit  and  apparently  forgetting  to  discontinue  it.  I can  safely  say  that  many 
colts  are  not  bitted  properly  and  accustomed  to  the  harness  before  they  are 
hitched  to  a wagon  and  it  is  not  surprising  that  some  of  the  high-lifed  or 
sulky,  bad  tempered  colts  or  horses  should  take  to  kicking  when  in  harness. 
There  is  another  kind ; namely,  nervous  ticklish  animals  that  are  allowed  to 
go  with  their  head  down  low  and  when  frightened  or  startled  commence 
kicking. 

REMEDY. — In  my  judgment  there  would  be  few  kickers  if  colts  were 
handled  young,  bitted  properly  and  driven  about  with  the  lines  before  they 
are  hitched  to  a vehicle.  When  hitched  they  should  be  hooked  to  a cart  and 
a kicking  strap  applied  to  prevent  their  kicking.  After  a thorough  education 
of  this  kind  and  at  the  same  time  checking  the  head  up  reasonably  high  to 
prevent  the  raising  of  the  hind  quarters  very  high,  few  horses  would  attempt 
to  kick  in  double  harness.  Most  kickers  that  kick  in  single  harness  have  first 
contracted  the  habit  when  double  or  when  hitched  to  a cart  without  kicking 
strap  or  to  a cart  that  was  too  light  and  broke  to  pieces  when  the  colt  ran 
away.  It  is  time  well  spent  to  bit  a colt  a few  weeks  before  you  attempt 
to  drive  him  single  or  double.  Colts  very  often  break  in  very  easily  if  first 
driven  with  their  mother  while  they  are  young  and  I might  add  that  every 
colt  should  be  broken  when  he  is  a year  old  or  younger.  By  doing  this  fewer 
accidents  happen  and  less  force  has  to  be  used.  Besides,  much  valuable  time 
is  saved  for  a young  colt  breaks  more  easily  than  an  old  one. 

KICKING  WHILE  EATING  GRAIN— KICKING  IN  STALL.— This 
is  a habit  that  is  contracted  from  the  animal’s  being  overfed  and  under  exer- 
cised; also,  nervous  horses  seem  to  soon  pick  up  the  habit  from  the  horse  in 
the  next  stall  so  that  it  is  not  unusual  to  find  several  idle  horses  kicking,  one 
after  the  other,  or  several  at  the  same  time.  Horses  kept  in  single  stalls  are 
most  likely  to  kick  the  stall  and  kick  while  eating  grain. 

REMEDY. — Give  the  animal  plenty  of  exercise  or  moderate  work; 
buckle  or  fasten  a strap  around  each  pastern  of  the  hind  leg  attaching  to  it 
twelve  or  fourteen  inches  of  chain  ; or,  harness  him  with  either  trotting  or 
pacing  hopples.  Hoppling  the  hind  legs  together  twelve  or  fourteen  inches 
apart,  with  hopple  applied  above  hock,  works  fairly  well  and  verv  often 
shifting  a stall  kicker  to  a different  part  of  the  stable  where  he  will  have 
quieter  associates  seems  to  have  a. good  effect.  It  is  not  unusual  to  find  mares 
kicking  the  stall  while  in  heat,  if  they  are  teased  by  their  neighbor.  I have 


HORSE-BREAKING,  TRAINING  AND  HANDLING. 


7 


known  mares  that  were  inveterate  kickers,  the  result  of  disease  or  an  ab- 
normal condition  of  the  generative  organs.  In  these  cases  spaying  is  the 
only  successful  remedy. 

BALKING. — Balking  is  when  a horse  refuses  to  go  when  told  or  urged 
to  do  so.  There  are  two  general  causes ; namely,  exciting  and  predisposing. 
The  exciting  causes  are  decidedly  numerous — yes,  there  are  hundreds  of 
them,  while  the  predisposing  causes  are  perhaps  few.  However,  the  two 
causes  are  many  times  closely  associated,  as  for  instance  a quick,  high-lifed, 
nervous,  energetic  colt  in  the  hands  of  a nervous,  excitable,  poor  horseman ; 
and  attempting  to  use  the  colt  for  slow  heavy  work  is  very  likely  to  fret  and 
discourage  both  colt  and  driver.  Besides,  over-loading  young  uneducated 
horses  during  the  muddy  or  snowy  season  and  pulling  this  heavy  load  up 
hill,  especially  if  the  haul  is  long,  is  quite  likely  to  make  a balky  colt.  Using 
harsh  bits  that  make  the  mouth  sore,  using  bad-fitting  collars  that  hurt  the 
shoulders,  working  a spirited  horse  with  a lazy  sluggish  one,  reining  the 
head  up  too  high  and  jerking  and  abusing  a willing,  true  puller,  have  a tend- 
ency to  discourage  him  and  make  him  balky.  Punishing  a horse  when  he  is 
unable  to  pull  the  load  and  whipping  him  when  he  is  doing  his  best  are  al- 
ways remembered.  Horses  have  great  memories.  I have  no  hesitation  in 
saying  that  for  want  of  knowledge,  a level  head  and  a smooth  temper 
drivers  are  responsible  for  spoiling  the  disposition  and  discouraging  nearly 
every  balky  horse  An  excitable  horse  should  not  be  driven  or  worked  by  an 
excitable  person.  Light  driving  and  road  work  should  be  done  with  light 
horses. 

REMEDY. — Ascertain  the  cause  and  when  a horse  balks  attract  his 
attention  away  from  what  he  is  thinking  about  but  treat  him  kindly.  Coax 
him  into  pulling  the  load  or  starting  on  his  journey.  Place  some  sand  in  his 
mouth  or  drop  a little  water  in  his  ears.  Place  a twitch  on  either  lip  or  ear 
and  he  may  pull.  Or,  tie  a rope  around  his  flank,  hitch  it  to  his  mate  and 
when  he  goes  the  balky  fellow  is  likely  to  follow.  There  are  hundreds  of 
ways  of  controlling  a balky  horse,  but  kindness  and  strategy  on  the  part  of 
the  driver  overcome  everv  balky  horse  or  mule. 

CRIB  BITING— WIND  SUCKING.— This  is  not  a disease,  but  a vice 
ox  bad  habit,  perhaps  the  result  of  indigestion,  pain  in  the  jaw  or  teeth,  but 
tJ---e  greatest  number  of  cases  I have  traced  have  been  contracted  by  imita- 
tion when  the  animal  was  idle.  Wind  sucking  is  usually  the  result  of  crib 
biting  after  it  has  been  kept  up  for  a certain  length  of  time.  The  swallowing 
of  air  is  accomplished  by  the  animal’s  taking  hold  of  some  hard  substance, 
then  dropping  the  neck  and  allowing  air  to  fill  a vacuum  in  the  pharynx. 
This  air  later  passes  into  the  stomach  and  on  into  the  bowels. 

TREATS! ENT. — Put  the  horse  in  a box  stall  or  a stall  with  smooth  par- 
titions and  without  any  manger  and  oblige  him  to  eat  out  of  an  oval-shaped 
cement  or  metal  box  resting  on  the  floor.  If  he  sucks  wind  wear  a muzzle  on 
him  when  he  is  not  eating.  Mangers  covered  with  metal  or  smeared  with 
offensive  drugs,  such  as  aloes,  coal-tar  disinfectants  or  red  pepper  have  a 
tendency  to  prevent  their  cribbing.  In  pure  wind  suckers  a strap  may  be 
tied  tightly  around  the  upper  part  of  the  neck.  This  will  prevent  the  horse 
filling  himself  with  air.  However.  I have  known  horses  to  become  roarers 
from  wearing  a strap  buckled  tightly  around  their  neck  to  prevent  wind 
sucking. 

HALTER  BREAKING  AND  HALTER  PULLING.— When  colts  are 


8 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


a few  weeks*old  and  before  they  get  strong  every  one  of  them  should  be 
halter  broken  and  this  is  most  easily  accomplished  when  the  colt  is  first  led 
with  its  mother.  The  second  lesson  should  be  by  leading  the  colt  in  a circle 
within  sight  of  its  mother,  either  in  a stall  or  paddock  and  I have  always 
thought  it  was  a mistake  to  be  in  a hurry  and  try  to  teach  the  colt  too  much 
in  a minute.  However,  a colt  can  be  halter  broken  in  two  or  three  days  so  that 
he  can  be  led  about  like  an  old  horse  if  good  judgment  is  used  on  the  part 
of  the  teacher.  Older  colts  require  more  time  to  teach  to  lead,  but  whenever 
they  are  taken  in  hand  the  work  should  be  persisted  in  until  the  ends  are 
accomplished.  Halter  pullers  are  usually  made  by  using  halters  that  are 
easily  broken.  The  habit  is  usually  acquired  through  fright  and  the  careless 
tying  of  young  horses  or  colts.  I have  found  it  a good  plan  to  use  a strong, 
well  fitting  halter  and  to  tie  them  short  and  high  up,  as  this  gives  the  horse 
less  power  to  break  loose.  Another  plan  is  to  use  a long  rope,  passing  it 
around  the  body  at  the  flanks  with  a slip  knot,  passing  it  under  or  alongside 
of  the  body  through  a ring  in  surcingle  and  up  through  a halter  or  neck 
strap  and  then  hitching  it  to  the  manger  or  a post,  and  then  after  the  colt 
makes  a few  attempts  to  break  loose  he  will  give  it  up  as  a bad  job  and  per- 
haps discontinue  the  habit.  However,  it  is  not  a good  plan  to  take  this  rope 
ofiF  too  soon.  Another  plan  is  to  buckle  a hopple  around  the  foreleg  either 
above  or  below  the  knee,  slide  this  through  a neck  strap  or  halter  and  hitch 
him  to  the  manger  or  post  and  he  will  not  break  loose. 

EXAMINATION  FOR  SOUNDNESS.— In  buying  a horse  it  is  well 
to  know  whether  he  is  sound  or  unsound  for  if  not  sound  his  value  must  de- 
preciate. In  order  to  tell  whether  he  is  sound  or  not,  you  must  be  thorough 
and  keep  in  mind  the  necessity  of  looking  him  all  over.  Watch  him  closely 
in  the  stable — he  may  crib  bite  or  have  some  vice  or  may  point  a foot  or  rest 
one  leg.  He  may  come  out  of  the  stall  lame  but  the  lameness  may  soon  dis- 
appear. Trot  him  on  hard  footing,  examine  his  eyes  closely,  look  at  his 
mouth  to  see  how  old  he  is,  pick  up  his  feet,  watch  his  breathing,  look  into 
his  mouth  for  diseased  teeth,  test  his  wind  by  giving  him  a brisk  gallop,  back 
him  out  of  the  stall  and  watch  for  stringhalt  and  chorea,  see  that  his  feet  are 
of  even  size  and  that  he  has  no  thrush.  Tap  his  feet  for  corns  and  tender 
spots,  look  into  his  nostrils  and  examine  the  eyes  closely  to  see  that  they  are 
alike.  Go  over  every  part  of  the  body  carefully.  See  that  there  are  no  splints, 
ring-bones,  spavins,  curbs,  bog-spavins  or  thoroughpins.  Stand  him  on  a 
level  floor  or  piece  of  ground,  then  step  to  one  side  and  hotice  if  he  is  knee 
sprung.  Also  stand  behind  him  and  observe  whether  his  hips  are  alike. 
Notice  if  his  respiration  is  normal,  also  use  enough  pressure  on  the  throat  to 
make  him  cough.  If  he  has  a moist  cough  think  little  about  it,  but  if  he  has 
a harsh,  dry,  hacking  cough  it  is  perhaps  chronic  and  possibly  bad  enough  to 
condemn  him.  Trot  him  both  to  and  from  you  on  hard  footing,  letting  him 
have  the  free  use  of  his  head ; also  trot  him  in  a circle  for  some  horses  will 
show  lameness  only  when  turning.  If  you  are  buying  him  for  work,  insist 
on  seeing  him  hitched  and  test  his  pulling  qualities.  It  is  well  to  notice 
whether  the  mane  is  roughened  from  wearing  a collar,  also  look  for  harness 
marks.  It  is  always  suspicious  to  find  no  evidence  of  harness  marks.  If 
you  are  going  to  use  him  for  road  work  give  him  a good  sharp  drive,  also 
be  sure  to  give  him  a brisk  gallop  to  test  his  wind. 

TEETH  AND  HOW  TO  TELL  A HORSE’S  AGE.— The  teeth  are,  of 
course,  the  principal  agents  used  in  the  process  of  mastication,  besides  afford- 


HORSE-BREAKING,  TRAINING  AND  HANDLING. 


9 


ing  a means  of  telling  a /horse’s  age.  A tooth  is  divided  into  three  parts — 
crown,  neck  and  fang  and  is  formed  of  three  substances — enamel,  dentine  and 
crusta  petrosa.  There  is  a cavity  in  the  fang  called  the  pulp  cavity,  extending 
up  into  the  neck.  This  cavity  is  largely  supplied  with  fibers  and  blood 
vessels,  also  with  nerves.  This  cavity,  however,  disappears  as  the  animal 
grows  older.  It  is  surrounded  with  nearly  thirty  per  cent,  of  animal  matter 
and  about  seventy  per  cent,  of  earthy  matter.  This  accounts  for  the  teeth 
being  harder  than  bone.  Dentine  develops  from  the  pulp,  but  in  very  old 
animals  the  teeth  are  composed  entirely  of  earthy  material  and,  I might  add, 
are  the  hardest  material  of  the  body.  The  teeth  are  of  three  classes.  Incisors, 
tusks  or  canine  teeth,  and  molars  or  grinders.  The  teeth  in  the  upper  jaw 
are  always  wider  than  in  the  lower.  The  horse  is  provided  with  temporary 
teeth  at  first  and  later  with  permanent  teeth,  having  twenty-four  temporary, 
twelve  molars  and  twelve  incisors.  He  has  forty  permanent  teeth.  On 
the  table  or  wearing  surface  of  the  incisors  there  are  cavities  and  these 
cavities  form  the  best  means  of  telling  a horse’s  age.  The  temporary  teeth 
are  white,  have  a well  marked  neck,  and  are  narrow ; while  the  permanent 
teeth  are  always  darker  in  color  and  wider;  besides,  as  they  wear  down  they 
become  more  upright.  When  a colt  is  foaled  it  usually  has  four  front  teeth — 
two  above  and  two  below.  However,  if  they  are  not  seen  at  birth  they 
usually  appear  in  ten  or  twenty  days.  From  four  to  six  weeks  later  four 
more  appear  close  to  the  others  and  some  six  months  later  the  other  four 
corner  teeth  appear,  making  six  above  and  six  below,  and  this  is  the  full  set 
of  incisor  teeth.  The  only  change  that  takes  place  up  to  two  and  one-half 
years  is  that  the  surface  of  the  teeth  become  smoother.  Now  between  two 
and  a half  and  three  years  the  four  temporary  teeth  are  shed  and  permanent 
ones  take  their  place,  and  when  from  three  to  four  vears  old,  the  four  central 
incisors  are  shed  and  from  four  and  a half  to  five  years  old  the  corner  incisor 
teeth  are  shed  and  the  permanent  ones  take  their  place.  Sometimes  a horse 
will  have  a full  mouth  when  “four  and  a half  years  old.  The  mouth  of  a two- 
year  old  resembles  somewhat  that  of  a five-year  old.  However,  the  teeth  of 
the  two-year  old  are  always  whiter  and  narrower  and  a two-year  old  never 
has  bridle  teeth.  The  foal  at  birth  usually  has  twelve  temporary  molars. 
The  first  perm,anent  grinder  teeth  appear  when  the  colt  is  about  twelve  or 
thirteen  months  old.  The  next  appear  six  or  eight  months  later  and  at  about 
three  and  half  years  old  the  fifth  appears  taking  its  place  third  in  the  jaw 
and  very  soon  afterwards  the  sixth  appears,  and  when  four  years  old  the 
colt  has  a full  set  of  permanent  molar  teeth.  The  bridle  teeth  appear  be- 
tween four  and  five  years  old  then  the  horse  has  a complete  set  of  permanent 
teeth.  At  the  age  of  six  years  the  marks  in  the  central  lower  incisors  are 
pretty  well  gone,  at  seven  the  central  lower,  at  eight  the  surface  of  the  lower 
row  of  nippers  is  almost  perfectly  smooth  and  there  is  a small  hook  on  each 
of  the  upper  corner  incisors.  At  nine  years  the  mark  is  worn  out  of  the 
two  central  upper  teeth,  at  ten  it  is  out  of  the  next  ones  and  at  eleven  the 
upper  row  of  teeth  is  worn  smooth.  After  this  the  incisors  begin  to  project 
forward,  become  narrower  from  side  to  side  and  broaden  from  the  four  back 
ones  and  are  almost  round  at  the  age  of  twelve.  At  thirteen  years  of  age 
the  central  lower  nippers  are  nearly  round  and  at  fourteen  years  nearly  all 
the  incisors  of  the  lower  jaw  are  round.  When  fifteen  years  old  the  central 
upper  nippers  are  almost  round,  in  fact  all  the  upper  nippers  have  assumed 
that  shape.  At  sixteen  years  the  middle  ones  are  nearly  round,  measuring 


10 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


but  little  more  in  depth  than  they  do  in  breadth.  Now,  at  seventeen  years  of 
age  the  incisors  of  the  upper  jaw  have  become  almost  round.  However,  the 
middle  teeth  are  a little  deeper  than  they  are  broad.  At  eighteen  years  the 
lower  incisors  become  a little  more  triangular  in  shape  and  somewhat  deeper 
than  they  are  wide.  At  nineteen  years  we  find  the  middle  teeth  of  the  lower 
jaw  triangular  in  shape  and  not  quite  so  wide,  but  perhaps  a little  deeper,  and 
at  twenty  years  the  whole  six  lower  incisor  teeth  have  become  triangular  in 
shape.  Besides,  they  are  usually  somewhat  irregular. 

PROPER  FOOD  AND  FEEDING. — In  feeding  animals,  especially  the 
young,  it  must  be  remembered  that  milk  that  comes  from  the  mother  is  a 
balanced  ration  and  if  the  young  colt  has  plenty  of  it  and  meets  with  no  mis- 
hap or  sickness  he  grows  evenly  and  every  part  of  the  body  seems  to  be 
nourished  properly.  Then  after  weaning  time,  the  diet  must  be  of  such  a 
nature  as  to  take  the  place  of  milk.  Colts  or  calves  should  be  fed  some 
ground  oats  while  sucking  the  mother  so  that  when  weaned  they  will  eat 
hay,  grass,  grain,  vegetables  and  fodder.  If  left  to  their  own  choice,  where 
they  have  access  to  a variety  of  food  stuffs  it  is  astonishing  to  see  them  nib- 
bling a little  of  them  all.  This  is  a hint  to  us  to  supply  their  wants,  for  while 
they  are  making  their  own  selections  their  entire  body  is  growing  not  only 
rapidly  but  evenly.  Growing  young  stock  are  not  always  fed  a sufficient 
quantity  of  nutritious  food  to  keep  them  growing;  besides,  too  many  of  them 
are  fed  the  same  kind  of  food  during  the  entire  winter  months  and  nothing 
but  grass  during  the  summer  season  and  of  course  this  is  a mistake.  The 
common  food  for  horses  in  this  country  and  Canada  is  hay,  straw,  corn- 
fodder,  grass,  roots,  oats,  corn  and  rye  but  in  some  other  countries  they  are 
fed  on  much  the  same  kind  of  food  that  man  eats  and  I am  told  they  thrive 

on  it.  In  the  selection  of  food  for  horses  it  should  be  of  good  quality  and 

not  too  bulky,  for  the  stomach  of  a horse  is  small,  hence  the  necessity  of 
supplying  him  w’th  grain  as  well  as  fodder  if  he  is  working.  Hay,  straw  and 
corn-fodder  should  be  fed  first  for  it  passes  out  of  the  stomach  more  quickly 
than  grain  and  if  hay  or  fodder  is  fed  last  some  of  the  grain  must  leave  with 
it  instead  of  remaining  in  the  stomach  to  be  digested.  Furthermore,  a horse 
should  be  watered  before  he  is  fed  grain  for  fear  that  the  water  will  wash 

the  grain  into  the  bowel  before  it  has  been  properly  digested.  If  hungry 

horses  are  fed  bulky  food  first,  they  eat  it  slower  than  if  fed  grain  and  it  does 
them  more  good,  and  feeding  this  way  also  prevents  their  swallowing  the 
grain  whole.  Indigestion  is  very  often  the  result  of  feeding  tired,  exhausted 
horses  too  soon  after  their  day’s  work  is  over  especially  if  they  are  fed  cut 
feed  and  chopped  feed  that  has  much  corn  mixed  with  it.  Of  course  it  may  do 
but  little  harm  when  fed  in  cold  weather  but,  during  hot  sultry  weather  it 
usually  disturbs  digestion,  ending  sometimes  in  death.  Too  sudden  a change 
of  diet  is  somewhat  dangerous  if  a large  quantity  of  rich  nutritious  food  i§ 
supplied  to  an  animal  unaccustomed  to  it. 

PROPER  SHOEING. 

These  rules  are  recommended  bv  the  Instructors  of  the  United  States 
Government  Training  School  for  Farriers  and  Horseshoers  at  Fort  Riley, 
Kansas. 

The  following  rules  may  serve  as  a guide  for  the  shoeing  of  healthy  feet: 

1.  The  wall,  being  the  weight  bearer,  should  be  rasped  perfectly  level 


HORSE— CARE  OF  SICK  AND  INJURED. 


11 


or  the  foot  will  be  thrown  out  of  its  true  position,  causing  extra  strain  on 
some  of  the  ligaments. 

2.  Fit  the  shoe  accurately  to  the  outline  of  the  foot;  do  not  alter  the 
latter  to  fit  the  shoe.  Rasping  away  the  exterior  of  the  crust  to  fit  the  shoe 
not  only  renders  the  horn  brittle  but  is  so  much  loss  of  bearing  surface. 

3.  The  sole  should  not  be  touched  with  the  knife;  loose  flakes  may  be 

removed  with  a blunt  instrument.  ’ 

4.  The  bars  should  not  be  cut  away ; they  are  a part  of  the  wall  and 
are  intended  to  carry  weight.  The  shoe  should  rest  on  them. 

5.  The  frog  should  not  be  cut,  but  left  to  attain  its  full  growth.  No 
frog  can  perform  its  functions  unless  on  a level  with  the  ground  surface  of 
the  shoe. 

' 6.  The  shoe  should  have  a true  and  level  bearing  and  rest  well  and 

firmly  on  the  wall  and  bars.  A plain  light-weight  shoe  is  the  best — plain  on 
both  ground  and  foot  surface. 

7.  High  nailing  is  injurious;  do  not  use  any  more  nails  than  are  abso- 
lutely necessary,  as  the  nails  destroy  the  horn. 

STABLE  MANAGEMENT  OF  THE  SICK  AND  INJURED. 

(In  treating  of  the  management  and  care  of  sick  and  injured  horses  we  will 
quote  largely  from  the  instructors  of  the  Government  Training  School) 


Care  of  the  Sick. 

The  sick  horse  should,  if  practicable,  be  immediately  removed  to  a large, 
clean,  light  and  well  ventilated  box  stall,  free  from  drafts  and  located  as  far 
as  possible  from  other  horses.  Clean  bedding  should  be  provided,  and  the 
stall  kept  free  from  manure  and  moisture.  If  such  a stall  can  not  be  pro- 
vided a double  stall,  with  the  kicking  bar  removed  and  ropes  or  bars  placed 
across  the  front  of  it,  will  answer  the  purpose. 

If  the  patient  is  suffering  from  a febrile  disease  (fever)  during  the  cold 
season  of  the  year,  paulins  or  horse  covers  can  be  hung  up  in  such  a manner 
as  to  serve  as  a protection  from  drafts,  care  being  taken  to  allow  sufficient 
air  to  enter  this  improvised  box  stall.  Such  patients  must  be  clothed  accord- 
ing to  the  season  of  the  year,  the  blanket  drawn  well  forward  on  the  neck 
and  fastened  in  front,  the  legs,  after  hand-rubbing,  bandaged  with  flannels. 
The  bandages  should  be  changed  several  times  daily  and  the  legs  thor- 
oughly rubbed  to  stimulate  circulation. 

Horses  with  d'seases  of  the  nervous  svstem  require  to  be  kept  absolutely 
quiet,  and  must  be  removed  as  far  as  possible  from  all  noise.  It  is  prefer- 
able that  only  one  man  be  allowed  to  attend  to  their  wants,  as  a change  of 
attendants  would  very  likely  cause  excitement  and  thus  increase  the  severity 
of  the  disease.  Animals  suffering  from  debilitating  diseases  should  be 
tempted  with  and  fed  any  food  that  is  rich  in  nourishment  and  easily  di- 
gested. Salt  should  frequently  be  added.  The  food,  etc.,  should  be  given 
only  in  such  quantities  as  the  animal  will  readily  eat,  and  any  portion  left 
over  should  be  at  once  removed,  as  food  constantly  remaining  before  a sick  ani- 
mal will  have  a tendency  to  deprive  it  of  all  appetite.  Food  that  is  wet,  such 
as  bran  mashes  or  steamed  oats,  will  soon  sour  in  warm  weather  and  will 


12 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


get  cold  or  may  freeze  during  the  winter;  if  eaten  in  these  conditions  it  may 
cause  diarrhea,  colic,  etc.  Feed  boxes,  water  buckets,  and  all  parts  of  the 
stall  must  be  kept  clean  and  free  from  odor.  The  hay  should  be  clean  and 
bright,  and  only  the  best  given  to  the  sick  animal.  Pure  water  should  be 
provided  and  placed  in  such  a position  as  to  enable  the  animal  to  reach  it 
without  difficulty;  a sick  horse  will  frequently  rinse  the  lips  and  mouth  with 
water  if  given  the  opportunity,  even  when  not  thirsty.  The  water  should 
be  changed  as  often  as  necessary  during  the  day  to  insure  a pure  and  fresh 
supply  at  all  times. 

A horse  suffering  from  colic  requires  sufficient  space,  well  bedded,  to 
prevent  injuring  himself  by  rolling  over  during  a spasm  of  pain.  A man 
should  be  constantly  in  attendance,  as  there  is  danger  that  the  animal  may 
become  cast  and  be  unable  to  get  up  without  assistance. 

Undigested  matter  being  the  exciting  cause  in  almost  all  cases  of  colic, 
food  should  be  withheld  for  about  twelve  hours  after  all  pain  has  disappeared, 
and  then  given  only  in  small  quantities  during  the  next  twenty-four  hours, 
after  which  the  ordinary  ration  may  be  resumed.  A few  swallows  of  pure 
water  may  be  given  at  short  intervals,  but  special  care  must  be  taken  when 
the  water  is  very  cold. 

The  pulse  is  the  beating  of  the  arteries,  usually  felt  at  the  jaw  (the 
submaxillary  artery),  and  is  an  important  guide  in  determining  the  physical 
condition  of  the  animal ; the  normal  pulsations  are  about  40  per  minute.  The 
count  is  best  taken  by  placing  the  fore  or  middle  finger  transversely  on  the 
artery.  The  slightest  excitement,  when  the  horse  is  sick,  will  cause  an  alter- 
ation in  the  pulse,  therefore  the  animal  should  be  approached  very  quietly. 
A strong  and  full  pulse  is  an  indication  of  health. 

In  the  first  stages  of  fever  the  pulse  is  full  and  bounding,  afterwards  be- 
coming small  and  weak.  A very  slow  pulse  denotes  disease  or  injury  of  the 
brain  or  spinal  cord.  An  imperceptible  pulse  indicates  the  approach  of  death. 

At  rest  the  healthy  horse  breathes  from  13  to  15  times  per  minute.  Diffi- 
cult or  rapid  breathing  is  a prominent  symptom  of  disease  of  the  respiratory 
organs;  it  may  also  be  observed  in  some  cases  of  flatulent  colic.  Abdominal 
breathing  is  the  respiratory  movement  performed  with  the  ribs  fixed  as  much 
as  possible,  owing  to  pain  or  mechanical  obstruction  in  the  chest,  and  is  a 
symptom  of  pleurisy  and  hydrothorax  (water  in  the  chest). 

Irregular  breathing  is  that  condition  where  there  is  a want  of  harmon- 
ious correspondence  between  the  inspiratory  and  expiratory  movements,  and 
is  observed  in  the  disease  commonly  known  as  “ broken  wind  ” or  “ heaves.” 
The  inspiratory  movement  in  this  affection  is  performed  quickly  and  with 
a jerky  effort,  while  the  expiratory  movement  is  performed  slowly  and  with 
a double  action,  more  particularly  of  the  abdominal  muscles.  Irregular  breath- 
ing often  becomes  spasmodic  or  convulsive  during  the  progress  of  the  disease. 
The  condition  and  color  of  the  visible  mucous  membranes  should  be  closely 
observed;  as  will  be  learned  in  detail  later,  they  are  an  important  guide  in 
determining  the  physical  condition  of  the  animal. 

The  normal  temperature  of  the  horse  in  the  internal  part  which  is  most 
easily  accessible,  the  rectum,  may  be  estimated  at  from  99  degrees  to  101 
degrees  F.  In  very  young  animals  the  temperature  is  commonly  about  101 
degrees,  but  in  very  old  ones  it  has  been  known  to  be  as  low  as  96  degrees  F. 
The  temperature  of  the  external  parts  of  the  body  becomes  lower  according 


CIRCULATORY  APPARATUS  OF  THE  HORSE. 


1. 

2. 

Heart  (right  ventrical). 
Heart  (left  ventrical). 

18. 

Branches  distributed  to 
pancreas,  etc. 

Branches  distributed  to 

the  stomach, 

3. 

Heart  (left  auricle). 

19. 

the  intestines. 

3a. 

Heart  (right  auricle). 

20. 

Branch  to  the  kidneys. 

4. 

Pulmonary  arteries  (cut  off). 

2‘> 

Posterior  vena  cava. 

5. 

Pulmonary  veins  (cut  off). 

24.’ 

Kxternal  iliac  artery. 

6. 

Anterior  aorta. 

2.I. 

Internal  iliac  artery. 

7. 

Common  carotid  artery. 

27 

Femoral  artery. 

9. 

Left  brachial  artery. 

2*^. 

Posterior  tibtal  artery. 

13. 

Humeral  artery. 

29. 

.Metatarsal  artery. 

14. 

Radial  artery. 

;;o. 

X’enous  network  of  the 

foot. 

15. 

Metacarpal  artery. 

Jugular  vein. 

Ifi. 

17. 

Digital  artery. 
Posterior  aorta. 

:*,4. 

.\nterior  vena  cava. 

HORSE— CARE  OF  SICK  AND  INJURED. 


13 


to  their  distance  from  the  heart,  and  liable  to  much  variation  from  the  state 
of  the  surrounding  atmosphere.  Fever  is  an  elevation  of  temperature. 

The  production  of  animal  heat  is  due  to  certain  chemical  and  vital 
changes  which  are  continually  taking  place  in  the  body;  these  changes  con- 
sist in  the  absorption  of  oxygen  by  the  capillaries  in  the  lungs,  and  the 
combination  of  that  oxygen  with  the  carbon  and  »hydrogen  derived  (first) 
from  the  disintegration  of  animal  tissues  and  (second)  from  certain  elements 
of  the  food  which  have  not  been  converted  into  tissue. 

This  combination  with  oxygen,  or  oxidation,  not  only  takes  place  in  the 
blood,  which  may  be  looked  upon  as  a fluid  tissue,  but  in  the  tissue  cells 
also,  in  all  parts  of  the  body,  the  animal  heat  being  maintained  by  the  natural 
changes  which  are  essential  to  a healthy  condition. 

As  previously  stated,  oxygen  is  absorbed  from  the  air  by  the  capillaries 
of  the  lungs  in  respiration  (breathing).  Expired  air  is  found  to  have  lost 
about  10  per  cent,  of  the  oxygen  contained  in  pure  air,  and  to  have  accu- 
mulated a like  amount  of  a combination  of  carbon  and  oxygen,  called  carbonic 
acid  gas.  If  we  imagine  the  animal  breathing  and  rebreathing  the  same  air, 
it  can  be  seen  that  the  oxygen,  so  necessary  for  the  purification  of  the  blood, 
would  soon  diminish  to  a dangerous  degree.  Hence,  we  realize  the  importance 
of  a large  supply  of  air  to  draw  on  and  the  necessity  of  good  ventilation.  At 
each  inspiration  the  horse  draws  about  250  cubic  inches  of  air  into  the  lungs, 
and  he  therefore  requires  about  2 cubic  feet  per  minute,  or  120  per  hour.  It 
is  customary,  in  building  ordinary  stables,  to  allow  1,G00  cubic  feet  of  air 
space  (over  twelve  hour’s  supply)  for  each  animal,  and  to  provide  means  of 
admitting  fresh  air  without  causing  drafts.  In  infirmary  stables  the  allow- 
ance is  increased  to  1,900  cubic  feet. 

Without  good  air  the  blood  is  imperfectly  purified,  the  vitality  of  the 
animal  is  lessened,  he  is  more  susceptible  to  disease,  and  will  succumb  more 
easily  when  attacked;  consequently,  horses  should  never  be  kept  in  the 
vicinity  of  a marsh,  the  air  from  which  contains  an  excess  of  carbonic  acid  gas 
and  a diminshed  supply  of  the  necessary  oxygen. 

Care  of  the  Injured. 

If  the  horse  is  seriously  injured  and  stands  with  difficulty,  he  should 
be  placed  in  slings  (See  Plate)  to  partially  support  the  weight  of  the  body. 
The  slings  must  be  properly  adjusted,  fitting  closely  behind  the  elbows  in 
such  a manner  as  to  support  the  weight  of  the  body  on  the  chest  and  not  on 
the  abdomen.  This  position  is  maintained  by  the  use  of  the  breast  piece  and 
breeching,  which  prevent  the  shifting  of  the  sling.  A single  stall,  having 
a level  floor,  free  from  bedding,  is  more  suitable  than  one  allowing  more 
motion  to  the  animal. 

If  the  horse  is  but  slightly  injured,  there  is  no  necessity  of  placing  him 
in  slings.  An  ordinary  stall  with  a level  floor  is  all  that  is  required.  After 
the  injury  has  been  dressed  he  should  be  allowed  to  stand  without  being  dis- 
turbed. If  very  lame,  and  movement  is  painful,  the  more  quiet  he  is  kept 
the  more  quickly  will  recovery  take  place.  Absolute  rest  and  perfect  quietude 
are  two  very  essential  things,  and  when  secured  they  will  hasten  the  process 
of  recovery  without  inflicting  unnecessary  pain  upon  the  animal.  In  some 
surgical  cases  it  is  necessary  to  restrain  the  animal  so  that  he  can  not  injure 
himself  by  rubbing  or  biting  the  affected  parts.  This  can  be  accomplished 
by  tying  up  the  head  or  by  the  application  of  side  lines.  Bandages  may  be 


14 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


applied  to  the  legs  of  animals  for  different  purposes — First,  to  give  support 
to  the  blood  vessels  and  synovial  bursae;  second,  to  dry  and  warm  the  legs; 
third,  to  support  packs  used  in  applying  hot  and  cold  lotions;  and  fourth, 
when  conditions  are  favorable,  to  check  hemorrhages. 

Food  and  Drinks  for  Sick  Horses. 

Water  Supply. — However  harmless  impure  water  may  have  been  to  animals 
in  a wild  state,  the  more  we  subject  them  to  an  artificial  existence  the  more 
we  remove  them  from  the  immunity  they  may  have  possessed  against  com- 
mon causes  of  disease  and  the  greater  liability  is  there  for  the  development  of 
causes  of  disease  and  the  greater  liability  is  there  for  the  development  of 
diseases  which  originally  may  never  have  existed.  In  other  words,  the  do- 
mesticated animals  should  always  have  pure  water;  when  the  vitality  is 
further  reduced  by  sickness  the  necessity  of  absolute  purity  is  even  more 
imperative. 

Hay  Tea. — Fill  a tub  with  a good  quality  of  hay,  pack  it  down  closely 
and  cover  it  with  boiling  water,  then  cover  the  tub  and  keep  it  in  a warm 
place  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  and  if  the  water  evaporates  add  some  more 
cold  water.  Hay  tea  is  refreshing  to  a horse. 

How  to  Make  Gruel. — Stir  either  a quart  of  corn  meal  or  oat  meal  into 
a gallon  and  a half  or  two  gallons  of  cold  water,  allowing  it  to  stand  for  an 
hour  or  two,  then  give  it  as  a drink. 

How  to  Make  Bran  Mashes. — Take  four  or  five  quarts  of  fresh  bran,  add 
a tablespoonful  or  two  of  salt,  pour  on  boiling  water  until  the  bran  is  cov- 
ered with  the  water  then  cover  with  a cloth  to  keep  in  the  steam  and  surround 
the  bucket  with  some  straw  or  cloth  to  keep  it  warm  or  place  it  in  a 
warm  room  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  two  hours.  If  the  horse  is  not  inclined 
to  eat  it  add  a few  oats.  This  is  a very  good  meal  for  heavy  work  horses, 
Wednesday  and  Sunday  evenings,  to  keep  the  bowels  open. 

* 

How  to  Give  a Horse  Medicine. 

Medicine  is  given  to  a horse  most  conveniently  in  feed,  or  with  a syringe, 
or  as  a drench  out  of  a wine  or  whiskey  bottle.  The  head  is  easily  held  up  by 
fastening  a strap  or  rope  in  the  nose  piece  of  the  halter,  then  passing  through 
a ring  or  pulley  or  over  a beam..  Pour  the  contents  of  the  bottle  slowly  into 
the  mouth,  but  never  pull  out  the  tongue  or  pinch  the  throat.  It  is  a mistake 
to  hold  the  head  too  high  and  decidedly  dangerous  to  drench  a horse  through 
the  nose.  Many  times  it  becomes  necessary  to  give  medicine  by  injecting  it 
into  the  bowel  or  to  give  it  with  a hypodermic  syringe.  Medicine  can  be  easil)^ 
given  to  a horse  in  pill  or  bolus  form  and  balling  guns  are  useful  for  this  pur- 
pose but  the  pill  or  bolus  may  be  given  by  taking  hold  of  the  tongue  with  the 
left  hand,  pulling  it  well  forward,  keeping  the  mouth  open  with  the  same  hand 
and  then  placing  the  ball  well  back  in  the  mouth  and  letting  go  of  the  tongue 
after  the  right  hand  is  withdrawn.  Medicine  in  powder  form,  when  not  ir- 
ritating or  caustic  in  its  action,  can  be  given  with  a spoon  when  the  tongue  is 
pulled  forward  with  the  left  hand  and  mouth  kept  open  with  closed  hand. 


DR.  F.\TR  GIVTXG  A HORSE  MEDICINE  WITH  A SYRINGE, 
aluable  draft  liorse.  owned  by  the  American  Steel  and  Wire  Company,  being  treated  for  a chronic  cough. 
Dr.  Fair  is  Veterinarian  for  the  above  company.  Note  how  the  syringe  is  held  in  the  hand. 

(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


DIGESTIVE  APPARATUS  OF  THE  HORSE. 


1. 

Mouth. 

s. 

Liver,  u])per  extremity. 

14. 

Anus. 

2. 

Pharynx. 

9. 

Large  colon. 

ir». 

Left  kidney  and  its  ureter. 

3. 

Esophagus. 

10. 

Caecum. 

16. 

Bladder. 

4. 

Diaphragm. 

11. 

Small  intestines. 

17. 

Urethra. 

5. 

Spleen. 

12. 

Floating  colon. 

6. 

Stomach  (left  sac). 

13. 

Rectum. 

DISEASES  OF  THE  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 

(Including  Diseases  of  the  Mouth,  Stomach,  Bowels,  Liver,  Etc.) 


INDIGESTION. — A simple  functional  derangement  of  the  digestive 
system  is  very  common  in  animals,  especially  the  horse  which  has  a small 
stomach. 

CAUSES. — Simple  indigestion  is  very  often  brought  on  by  eating  too 
much  bulky  food  of  poor  quality.  Of  course  it  is  true  that  digestion  in  the 
horse  goes  on  rapidly  for  if  it  did  not,  with  so  small  a stomach  in  propor- 
tion to  the  size  of  his  body,  the  horse  would  suffer  more  from  indigestion 
than  he  does.  Sharp  uneven  teeth,  causing  the  horse  to  improperly  masti- 
cate his  food,  is  another  cause  of  indigestion. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  usually  falls  off  in  condition  and  becomes 
somewhat  emaciated.  His  coat  looks  rough  and  he  presents  an  unthrifty 
appearance.  The  bowel  movements  are  often  irregular.  He  may  show 
some  abdominal  pain  and  instead  of  losing  his  appetite  he  will  often  eat  filthy 
things  with  apparent  relish  and  he  very  often  licks  the  wall,  hunting  for  lime 
or  salt. 

TREATMENT. — There  may  be  an  over  acidity  of  the  stomach  and  if  so 
the  horse  will  of  course  be  fond  of  lime  or  salt.  Many  home  remedies  help 
this  kind  of  cases.  Salt,  lime  and  very  often  a small  dose  of  calomel  and 
a moderate  dose  of  aloes,  or  epsom  salts,  or  baking  soda  and  charcoal  can  be 
given  with  benefit.  A little  bit  later  give  quinine,  gentian,  quassia,  sulphate 
of  iron  or  charcoal.  If  the  animal  shows  much  weakness  give  stimulants. 
Float  the  teeth  if  they  need  it,  exercise  the  horse  regularly  and  be  sure  to 
change  the  feed. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  INDIGESTION.— 

1.  Raw  Linseed  Oil. — Drench  with  a quart  of  raw  linseed  oil.  This 
dose  may  be  repeated  if  necessary. 

2.  Soda,  Ginger  and  Gentian. — Mix  equal  parts  of  common  baking  soda, 
powdered  ginger  and  powdered  gentian  and  give  in  tablespoonful  doses 
twice  a day  one  hour  before  feeding.  This  is  best  given  by  dissolving  in 
half  a pint  of  water  and  giving  as  a drench. 

3.  Removing  Causes. — If  the  indigestion  is  caused  by  sharp  and  irreg- 
ular or  decayed  teeth  they  should  be  rasped  down  or  extracted.  If  the  horse 
bolts  his  grain  without  chewing  it  properly  this  can  be  remedied  by  feeding 
in  a large  manger  where  the  grain  can  be  spread  out  so  that  he  cannot  eat 
it  so  fast.  If  worms  are  the  cause  then  a dose  of  one  ounce  of  aloes  or  a pint  of 
raw  linseed  oil  will  prove  of  service. 

CHRONIC  INDIGESTION. — This  is  a weakened  condition  of  the  di- 
gestive organs. 

CAUSES. — This  ailment  is  sometimes  associated  with  functional  de- 
rangements of  the  liver  and  is  often  brought  on  by  feeding  a horse  too  many 
oats  for  too  long  a time  when  not  exercised. 

SYMPTOMS. — An  animal  may  have  indigestion  and  not  show  symp- 
toms of  sickness ; however,  his  general  appearance  is  not  good.  He  is  dull 
and  languid,  sweats  easily  and  his  coat  is  not  glossy.  The  pulse  is  too  slow, 

16 


16 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


the  membranes  yellow,  appetite  irregular  and  sometimes  there  is  some  diar- 
rhea. There  is  a desire  for  salt  and  an  inclination  to  lick  lime  and  dirt. 

TREATMENT. — Find  out  the  cause  and  remove  it.  Change  the  feed, 
open  the  bowels  and  give  ginger,  soda,  charcoal,  gentian,  cinchona,  or  any 
home  digestive  remedy. 

ACUTE  INDIGESTION. — This  is  an  ailment  caused  by  eating  too 
much  of  the  wrong  kind  of  food,  eating  it  too  fast,  improperly  masticating 
it  and  failing  to  digest  it  quickly.  During  hot  weather  a great  many  draft 
horses  die  of  acute  indigestion  by  its  producing  rupture  of  the  stomach  or 
bowels,  or  pressure  against  the  diaphragm. 

CAUSES. — Perhaps  the  most  common  cause  is  subjecting  a horse  to 
hard  work  or  fast  driving  too  soon  after  eating  a hearty  meal.  Another  very 
common  cause  is  watering  horses  after  they  have  eaten  grain.  The  follow- 
ing foods  seem  to  be  most  likely  to  cause  it : wheat,  barley,  Indian  corn  and 
many  kinds  of  green  food.  Also,  the  atmosphere  seems  to  exert  a peculiar 
influence  in  causing  acute  indigestion.  For  example,  in  my  practice  and  at 
my  hospital  some  days  I have  had  not  less  than  twenty  cases  and  many  other 
days  none  at  all.  This,  I might  say,  is  the  experience  of  many  other  veter- 
inarians. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  usually  becomes  dull  and  sluggish,  soon 
showing  a slight  uneasiness,  turning  the  head  to  one  side  seemingly  suffering 
more  pain.  These  pains  are  often  spasmodic.  However,  later  they  become 
more  continuous  and  the  abdomen  enlarges.  The  eructations  of  gas  or  the 
passage  of  gas  through  the  rectum  are  favorable  indications.  Sometimes 
there  is  regurgitation  of  food,  but  this  will  be  found  in  more  extreme  cases. 
The  animal  very  often  perspires,  has  slight  diarrhea  and  rolls  and  tumbles 
violently.  If  the  anus  is  reddened  much  and  the  pulse  is  weak  and  quick  it 
is  unfavorable.  Also,  if  the  animal  staggers  or  reels  or  falls  back  upon  his 
haunches  it  is  an  indication  that  he  will  not  recover. 

TREATMENT. — In  all  cases  of  acute  indigestion  the  treatment  should 
be  prompt  to  be  effective.  Give  one  ounce  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  in 
one  pint  of  cold  water  and  repeat  in  thirty  minutes;  or,  give  three  ounces 
hypo-sulphite  of  soda  in  one  pint  of  water  and  repeat  in  one  hour.  Another 
remedy  is  three  drams  of  salicylic  acid  in  one-half  pint  raw  linseed  oil  and 
repeated  in  two  hours  if  necessary.  Or,  you  may  give  one-half  ounce  tur- 
pentine in  twelve  ounces  raw  linseed  oil  and  repeat  in  one  hour  if  necessary. 
Give  injections,  making  them  of  good  soap  and  warm  water;  a little  sweet 
oil  may  be  added.  If,  in  your  judgment,  you  believe  that  the  gas  is  increasing 
and  has  no  means  of  escape,  do  not  hesitate  to  tap  him,  using  of  course  the 
horse  trocar  and  canula.  The  trocar  used  for  the  horse  should  be  smaller 
than  the  one  used  for  the  cow.  The  opening  should  be  made  in  the  right 
flank  between  the  last  rib  and  the  point  of  the  hip.  Be  sure  that  your  in- 
strument has  been  boiled  or  dipped  in  a two  per  cent,  solution  of  carbolic 
acid  and  water.  (See  “Tapping  for  Bloat.”) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BLOATING.— 

1.  Soapy  Water. — If  wind  is  the  cause  of  the  bloating,  give  injections 
of  warm  soapy  water. 

2.  Cayenne  Pepper  and  Ginger. — Put  half  an  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper 
and  one  ounce  of  ginger  into  a pint  of  warm  water  and  give  as  a drench  as 
quickly  as  possible. 


DR.  FAIR  TAPPING  A HORSE  FOR  BLOAT  OR  FLATULENT  COLIC. 

Be  sure  to  tap  a horse  in  the  right  flank  and  a cow  in  the  left  flank.  Use  a much  smaller  trocar  for  the  horse  than  for 
the  cow.  Dr.  Fair  was  the  first  veterinarian  to  successfully  puncture  horses  for  this  ailment. 

(Photographed  especially  for  this  book  by  F.  W.  Smith,  Staff  Photographer  for  the  Cleveland  Leader.) 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


U 


3.  Charcoal. — Charcoal  will  give  relief  by  absorbing  the  gas.  Any 
amount  may  be  given. 

4.  Chloride  of  Lime. — One-half  ounce  of  chloride  of  lime  will  cure 
bloating. 

5.  Carbonate  of  Ammonia. — Give  one  to  two  drams  of  carbonate  of 
ammonia. 

6.  Linseed  Oil  or  Aloes. — Give  from  a pint  to  a quart  of  raw  linseed  oil 
or  from  one-half  to  an  ounce  of  aloes.  Either  of  these  will  unload  the  stomach 
and  bowels. 

PUNCTURING  TO  RELIEVE  BLOAT— TAPPING  THE  LARGE 
BOWEL. — Tapping  is  a surgical  operation  that  I have  been  performing  suc- 
cessfully for  thirty-four  years  and,  so  far  as  I can  learn,  the  puncturing  of 
horses  to  relieve  flatulence  had  never  been  done  successfully  prior  to  this 
date.  This  discovery  grew  out  of  the  fact  that  I was  losing  so  many  valuable 
horses  from  acute  indigestion  and  feeling  so  badly  over  the  death  of  one  or 
more  horses  or  mules  every  hot  sultry  day  or  evening,  caused  me  to  have 
a long,  small  trocar  made  and,  to  my  surprise,  three  out  of  the  first  five  cases 
I punctured  made  splendid  recoveries  and  had  I not  so  long  delayed  operat- 
ing on  the  other  two  I am  inclined  to  believe  they  might  also  have  recovered. 
Never  use  a large  trocar  on  horses  for  the  operation  is  likely  to  prove  fatal 
as  it  makes  too  large  a wound  or  opening  in  the  bowel.  Besides,  there  is 
greater  danger  of  hemorrhage.  When  it  becomes  necessary  to  puncture, 
the  operation  should  not  be  put  ofif  too  long,  but  should  be  performed  while 
the  animal  is  strong  and  before  rupture  has  taken  place.  The  trocar  should 
not  be  used  until  the  flank  becomes  drum-like  and  before  doing  so  the  skin 
should  be  washed  clean  with  soap  and  water,  then  with  alcohol  or  peroxide- 
hydrogen  or  any  other  good  antiseptic.  The  operation  is  usually  performed 
on  the  right  side  of  the  animal,  but  may  be  done  on  the  left  side  in  cases 
where  the  left  flank  is  badly  distended.  The  skin  should  first  be  cut  with 
the  lancet  or  a sharp,  clean  knife.  This  is  done  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating 
the  entrance  of  the  trocar  and  canula,  but  before  the  trocar  is  used  it  should 
be  boiled  in  hot  water  for  ten  minutes  or  dipped  in  carbolic  acid  water,  one 
part  to  thirty.  The  direction  should  be  downward  and  inward.  After  pulling 
out  the  trocar  if  no  gas  comes  through  the  canula  you  must  not  be  discour- 
aged but  should  puncture  him  again.  After  the  gas  has  all . escaped  the 
canula  may  be  withdrawn  and  the  wound  usually  heals  by  first  intention. 
However,  in  some  cases  an  abscess  forms  which  should  be  treated  as  if  it 
occurred  on  any  other  part  of  the  body.  It  is  a good  symptom  when  pure 
gas  comes  through  the  canula  and  an  unfavorable  one  if  fluid  passes,  as 
this  indicates  inflammation  of  the  bowels.  But  I have  known  scores  of 
recoveries  to  take  place  even  when  this  dark  fluid  escaped  at  the  time  of 
puncturing.  After  the  operation  a dose  of  laxative  medicine  may  be  given. 
The  animal  should  be  kept  on  a light  diet  for  a few  days  and  allowed  to  rest 
as  this  is  of  assistance  in  bringing  about  a permanent  recovf^ry.  Every 
horse  owner  should  keep  on  hand  an  instrument  of  this  kind  and  should  not 
hesitate  to  use  it  before  it  is  too  late,  making  the  opening  on  the  right  side 
at  the  most  prominent  and  distended  point  in  the  right  flank,  which  is 
usuallv  in  the  triangle  between  the  hip  and  ribs. 

DEPRAVED  APPETITE.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

FLATULENT  OR  WIND  COLIC. — Flatulent  colic  consists  in  a gen- 
eration of  gases  in  the  stomach  and  large  intestines  the  same  as  in  acute  in- 
2 


18 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


digestion.  The  same  treatment  will  answer  very  well  in  either  case.  There- 
fore, the  reader  is  referred  to  “ acute  indigestion,”  where  the  causes,  symptoms 
and  treatment  are  given.  As  there  stated,  treatment  should  be  quite  prompt. 
Energetic,  diffusible  stimulants  such  as  1 ounce  sulphuric  ether;  aromatic 
spirits  of  ammonia,  1 to  two-ounce  doses;  or  a dessert  spoonful  of  turpentine 
should  be  given.  Repeat  every  2 hours  until  relief  is  obtained.  Also  give 
enemas  of  warm  water  with  a small  quantity  of  salt  added.  I have  seen 
excellent  results  from  the  use  of  tobacco  injection.  After  every  attack  of 
flatulent  colic  the  animal  should  be  kept  on  a light  diet  for  two  or  three  days 
and  the  stomach  and  bowels  should  be  cleaned  out  with  a dose  of  1 ounce 
aloes,  1 quart  raw  linseed  oil,  or  1 pound  epsom  salts.  Tapping  may  be 
necessarv. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FLATULENT  OR  WIND  COLIC. 

1.  Red  Pepper  Tea. — Give  a quart  of  strong  red  pepper  tea  while  warm 
and  follow  in  an  hour  with  a pint  of  raw  linseed  oil. 

2.  Whiskey  and  Soda. — Give  a teaspoonful  of  common  baking  soda  in 
a pint  of  whiskey.  This  may  be  repeated  in  one  hour  if  necessary. 

3.  Lime  or  Ammonia. — Give  half-ounce  doses  of  chloride  of  lime  evev 
half-hour  until  relieved.  Carbonate  of  ammonia  is  also  good  and  may  be 
used  in  the  same  dose. 

4.  Charcoal. — Give  charcoal  every  hour  in  ounce  doses  to  absorb  the  gas. 

5.  V/arm  Lard. — Drench  the  horse  with  1 pint  of  warm  lard.  This  is 
a remedy  that  is  nearly  always  at  hand. 

6.  Wild  Yam. — Give  20  drops  of  wild  yam  every  fifteen  to  thirty  min- 
utes. This  should  be  given  in  half  a pint  of  warm  water. 

7.  Aloes,  Sweet  Oil,  Etc. — Apnly  blan’^ets  wrung  out  of  hot  water. 
Give  injections  of  warm  soap  suds  mixed  with  8 ounces  of  sweet  oil.  Also 
give  one-half  ounce  of  Rarbadocs  aloes. 

8.  Hop  Tea. — Drench  the  horse  with  a quart  of  strong  hop  tea  and  then 
let  him  roll  or  walk  him. 

9.  Soda  and  Buttermilk. — Give  a teasooonful  of  common  baking  soda 
in  a quart  of  buttermilk.  May  be  repeated  in  half  an  hour  if  necessary.  The 
soda  should  not  be  added  to  the  buttermilk  until  just  before  it  is  given. 

10.  Soda  and  Ginger. — Mix  a tablespoonful  of  ginger  with  a tablespoon- 
ful of  common  baking  soda,  dissolve  in  warm  water  and  give  as  a drench. 

11.  Chloroform  and  Linseed  Oil. — Mix  half  an  ounce  of  chloroform  with 
a quart  of  raw  linseed  oil  and  give  at  one  dose. 

12.  Turpentine  and  Laudanum. — Mix  1 ounce  of  turpentine  with  two 
ounces  of  laudanum  and  a pint  of  warm  water  and  give  as  a dose. 

13.  Milk  and  Ammonia. — To  a pint  of  sweet  milk  add  a teaspoonful  of 
aqua  ammonia  and  give  at  one  do«=e. 

14.  Laudanum,  Ether  and  Nitre. — Mix  equal  parts  of  laudanum,  sul- 

phuric ether  and  spirits  of  nitre.  The  dose  is  two  tablespoonfulo  in  a pint 
of  W'^ter  nwv  be  hmw  imtd  reb'ef  is  nbi-qiped. 

CRAMPS  OR  SPASMODIC  COLIC. — Spasmodic  colic  is  perhaps  one 
of  the  most  common  bowel  ailments  of  the  horse.  It  is  known  by  such  names 
as  gripes,  cramps,  bellv-ache.  etc.  It  consists  of  a spasmodic  contraction  of 
the  nnmcular  portion  of  the  intestines.  It  usually  affects  the  small  intestines; 
however  the  large  intestine  is  sometimes  involved. 

CAUSES. — Spasmodic  colic  is  often  the  result  of  a change  of  feed  from 
good  to  an  inferior  quality.  It  also  follows  drinking  too  much  cold  water 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


19 


when  in  a heated  condition,  especially  if  the  animal  is  exhausted.  Eating^  cold 
or  frozen  vegetables,  sometimes  a very  small  quantity,  brings  on  the  attack. 
A change  of  temperature  from  hot  to  cold  and  irritating  cathartic  medicine 
when  not  combined  with  an  anodyne  to  prevent  griping  are  other  causes. 

SYMPTOMS. — This  ailment  attacks  the  animal  suddenly.  When  seem- 
ingly in  perfect  health  and  while  eating  food  he  is  seized  with  pain  and  turns 
the  head  around  to  the  side,  switches  his  tail,  paws  and  kicks,  often  raising 
the  hind  foot  toward  the  abdomen.  He  cringes  down,  very  often  lying  down 
and  rolling  from  side  to  side  and  of  course  must  be  suffering  violent  pain. 
These  attacks  of  pain  are  usually  periodical  and  soon  pass  off.  During  these 
attacks  the  pulse  quickens  but  slows  when  the  animal  is  quiet.  The  neck 
of  the  bladder  is  usually  contracted  and  the  animal  is  unable  to  urinate,  but 
after  the  abdominal  pain  ceases  the  animal  urinates  freely.  During  these 
sick  spells  the  ears  and  legs  very  often  become  cold  and  when  rolling  he 
tries  to  balance  upon  his  back.  He  generally  paws  and  turns  around  several 
times  before  lying  down  and  he  frequently  eats  hay  between  the  attacks  and 
sometimes  the  bowels  move  freely.  These  attacks  usually  last  from  fifteen 
m.inutes  to  ten  or  fifteen  hours.  Whenever  the  pain  becomes  continuous  and 
the  visible  mucous  membranes  become  inflamed  it  indicates  inflammation  of 
the  bowels. 

TREATMENT. — In  the  treatment  of  colic  it  is  important  to  be  energetic 
and  to  bear  in  mind  that  giving  twelve  or  fifteen  times  as  much  of  any  of  the 
common  home  remedies  used  for  colic  in  the  family  is  equally  proper  in  the 
treatment  of  spasmodic  colic  in  horses.  All  alcoholic  stimulants  and  anti- 
spasmodics  are  proper  remedies  for  this  ailment.  Among  these  remedies 
are  sulphuric  ether,  tincture  opium  (laudanum),  ginger,  capsicum,  belladonna 
and  nux  vomica.  If  the  bowels  are  costive  give  a laxative  of  oil  or  aloes, 
with  calomel  and  ginger.  It  is  also  well  to  give  injections.  Stimulating  lini- 
ments or  mustard  applied  externally  give  relief.  The  animal  should  be  al- 
lowed to  roll  as  he  pleases.  A very  common  drench  is  composed  of  one 
ounce  of  sulphuric  ether,  one  ounce  of  tincture  of  opium  (laudanum),  one- 
half  ounce  tincture  ginger  and  one  dram  tincture  capsicum  in  a pint  or  two 
of  cold  water.  Repeat  this  dose  in  an  hour  or  two  if  a recovery  has  not  taken 
place.  It  is  always  good  practice  to  give  a laxative  to  clear  out  the  bowels 
and  it  is  always  good  judgment  to  lessen  an  animal’s  food  supply  for  twenty- 
four  hours  after  he  has  had  an  attack  of  colic. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CRAMP  OR  SPASMODIC  COLIC. 

1.  Whiskey. — Give  half  a pint  of  whiskey  in  some  hot  water  every  hour 
until  relief  is  obtained. 

2.  Soapy  Water  and  Salt  Water. — Give  injections  of  warm  soapy  water 
or  weak  salt  water  if  the  horse  has  spasmodic  colic. 

3.  Laudanum,  Ether  and  Linseed  Oil. — Give  two  ounces  each  of  lauda- 
num and  sulphuric  ether  mixed  with  half  a pint  of  raw  linseed  oil. 

4.  Chloral  Hydrate. — Give  an  ounce  of  chloral  hydrate  in  one-half  pint 
of  water  every  two  or  three  hours. 

5.  Nitre,  Opium  and  Ginger. — To  half  a pint  of  water  add  one-half  ounce 
of  fluid  extract  of  ginger,  one  ounce  of  tincture  opium  and  IV2  ounces  of 
sweet  spirits  of  nitre.  This  is  one  dose. 

6.  Nitre,  Laudanum,  Ginger. — To  a pint  of  lukewarm  water  add  one 
t^blespoonful  of  ginger  and  one  ounce  each  of  tincture  of  laudanum  and  sweet 


20 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


^irits  of  nitre.  Give  this  amount  every  four  hours  until  the  horse  is  better. 
This  is  one  of  the  best  remedies  known  for  cramp  or  spasmodic  colic. 

7.  Asafetida  and  Ether. — Mix  iVo  ounces  of  sulphuric  ether  with  4 
ounces  of  tincture  of  asafetida.  Give  one-fourth  of  this  amount  in  a pint  of 
warm  water  everv  twenty  minutes  until  relief  is  obtained. 

GORGED  STOMACH— IMPACTION  OF  THE  STOMACH— STOM- 
ACH STAGGERS. — When  the  stomach  is  overloaded  and  distended  so  much 
that  it  fails  to  contract  on  its  contents,  we  call  it  gorged  stomach.  This  usu- 
ally happens  to  hungry,  half-starved,  ravenous  eaters  when  they  have  access 
to  a grain  bin  or  field  of  grain. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  soon  becomes  dull  and  shows  distress,  keep- 
ing the  head  low.  This  dullness  increases  and  he  usually  paws  and  acts  as 
though  he  were  going  to  stagger  and  it  is  not  uncommon  for  him  to  be- 
come delirious,  tremble  violently  and  act  wild  until  he  falls.  This  ailment 
sometimes  reminds  one  of  a horse  with  mad  staggers  or  vertigo. 

TREATMENT. — Give  one  ounce  of  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia,  one 
dram  fluid  extract  nux  vomica  and  three  ounces  of  whiskey  in  a pint  of  cold 
water  every  hour.  Or,  give  any  good  home  colic  mixture.  A cathartic  of 
aloes,  epsom  salts  or  Glauber’s  salts  should  be  given  immediately.  Large  doses 
of  ginger  and  red  pepper  are  good  and  I have  known  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
turpentine  given  in  one-half  pint  of  either  sweet  oil  or  raw  linseed  oil  to  act 
very  well.  If  there  is  much  gas  forming  give  two  drams  of  salicylic  acid  in 
a teacupful  of  warm  water  every  hour  until  relief  is  obtained ; or,  give  one 
ounce  of  aromatic  spirits  of*  ammonia  in  one  pint  of  cold  water  every  hour 
until  the  horse  is  better. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES: — For  Impaction,  Gorged  Stomach,  or 

Stomach  Staggers. — 

1.  Aloes,  Cayenne  Pepper  and  Turpentine. — Give  an  ounce  of  Barba- 
does  aloes  as  a physic  and  follow  with  half  an  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper  or 
ginger;  also,  give  injections  of  warm  soap  suds.  This  treatment  has  cured 
many  a hor<^e. 

RUPTURE  OF  THE  STOMACH. — Rupture  of  the  stomach  is  a result 
of  acute  indigestion,  but  I have  known  it  to  occur  without  the  bowels  being 
very  much  affected. 

SYMPTOMS. — One  of  the  most  prominent  symptoms  is  the  animal’s 
attempting  to  vomit  and  it  very  often  succeeds  when  the  stomach  is  rup- 
tured. The  heart  action  is  always  weak,  cold  sweats  bedew  the  body,  the 
ears  and  legs  grow  cold  and  the  horse  sits  on  his  haunches.  Rupture  of  the 
stomiach  is  always  fatal.  However,  an  animal  will  often  live  several  hours 
after  the  rupture  occurs. 

TREATMENT. — Treatment  consists  in  moving  the  bowels  before  an  in- 
flammation takes  place;  therefore,  give  one  ounce  of  aloes,  thirty  grains 
calomel,  one  dram  ground  nux  vomica  and  two  drams  ground  ginger,  made 
into  a bolus.  Give  at  one  dose.  Eight  hours  later  give  a pint  Of  raw  lin- 
seed oil  and  one  dram  tincture  nux  vomica  at  a dose  three  times  a dav  until 
the  bowels  move.  Also  give  injections  of  warm  soap  suds,  applv  mustard 
and  water  to  the  abdomen  and  if  the  pain  is  intense  give  four  grains  of  mor- 
phine four  or  five  times  a day.  Give  the  animal  water  if  he  craves  it.  As 
a last  resort  I have  thought  good  results  followed  giving  twenty-five  drops  of 
croton  oil  in  a pint  of  raw  linseed  oil.  It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  a little 
walking  exercise  assists  greatly  in  moving  the  bowels. 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


GASTRITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  STOMACH.— 

CAUSES. — Gastritis  is  usually  the  result  of  taking  irritants  or  poisons, 
such  as  arsenic,  brine  or  lime,  into  the  stomach. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  suffers  great  pain,  may  sweat  freely  and  the 
pulse  is  weak.  The  horse  is  less  liable  to  have  gastritis  than  the  ox  or  dog. 

TREATMENT. — Without  knowing  the  cause  you  cannot  treat  gastritis 
properly.  If  it  is  due  to  eating  arsenic,  give  hydrated  sesquioxide  of  iron; 
also  give  nutritive  tonics  and  stimulants,  plenty  of  eggs  and  milk  and  such 
home  remedies  as  soothe  our  own  inflamed  stomachs. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES. — For  Gastritis  or  Inflammation  of  the 

Stomach. — 

1.  Sulphuric  Acid. — Give  from  half  a teaspoonful  to  a teaspoonful  of 
sulphuric  acid  well  diluted  with  milk,  whites  of  eggs,  or  oils.  Also  give  lin- 
seed gruel. 

ENTERITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BOWELS.— Enteritis,  or 
inflammation  of  the  bowels,  as  it  is  commonly  termed,  is  a very  fatal  affection 
of  the  horse  and  I might  say  in  all  the  lower  animals.  As  a rule  the  inner 
coat  of  the  bowels  is  affected  However,  all  the  other  coats  may  become  in- 
volved, and  the  large  intestines  are  much  more  commonly  affected  than  the 
small  ones.  This  is  not  a common  disease  of  the  horse,  but  when  it  does 
exist  it  is  usually  fatal. 

CAUSES. — It  is  usually  the  result  of  other  ailments  that  affect  the  bowels. 
Certain  animals  are  seemingly  predisposed  to  it.  It  very  often  follows  the 
giving  of  poisonous  doses  of  croton  oil,  arsenic  and  other  irritating  drugs.  It 
also  results  from  impaction  of  the  bowels  caused  by  food  clogging  them  and 
also  from  foreign  bodies  lodging  in  the  intestines.  It  also  results  from  intus- 
susception or  a telescoping  of  the  bowels,  or  from  volvulus  or  a knotting  or 
kinking  of  the  bowels.  It  is  possible  for  a horse  to  suffer  with  this  disease 
for  several  days ; however,  most  cases  do  not  last  longer  than  twenty-four 
or  thirty-six  hours. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are  very  similar  in  the  first  stages  to  those 
of  colic,  but  they  soon  become  more  severe,  the  pain  more  continuous,  the 
pulse  quicker  and  the  temperature  usually  rises.  In  most  cases  the  horse 
tries  to  roll  on  his  back  and  appears  easiest  in  this  position.  The  abdomen  is 
hard  and  painful  to  the  touch.  Cold  sweats  appear  on  the  body.  The  eye 
is  somewhat  blood-shot  and  the  animal  wanders  about  the  stall  as  though 
unconscious  of  what  was  going  on.  Whenever  a diarrhea  sets  in  it  should  be 
a hint  that  recovery  is  doubtful. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  of  this  fatal  disease  is  unsatisfactory. 
Give  opiates  freely,  and  small  doses  of  calomel  and  oil.  If  it  is  convenient, 
give  morphine  hypodermically,  from  one  to  three  grains  at  a dose,  repeating 
the  dose  as  often  as  necessary  to  give  the  animal  relief.  Injections  of  tepid 
water  with  a little  tobacco  added  is  a good  treatment.  Apply  mustard  and 
water  freely  to  the  abdomen.  See  that  the  animal  has  pure  fresh  air  to  breathe 
and  look  well  after  the' horse’s  general  comfort.  Do  not  allow  him  to  stand 
in  a draft  or  chill  and  do  not  allow  any  by-stander  to  suggest  giving  a horse 
suffering  from  enteritis  a dose  of  physic,  for  if  you  do  it  adds  to  his  chances 
of  dying.  I have  known  of  hundreds  of  horses  being  killed  on  account  of 
this  mistake  being  made.  It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  large  doses  of  opium 
to  quiet  the  animal  and  keep  him  quiet  throughout  his  sickness  is  the  best 


22 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


remedy  that  can  be  given.  Also  apply  hot  applications  and  mild  counter- 
irritants  to  the  abdomen. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES. — For  Inflammation  of  the  Bowels. — 

1.  Hot  Water. — Apply  woollen  blankets  wrung  out  of  hot  water  to  the 
abdomen  and  back. 

2.  Vinegar,  Mustard  and  Turpentine. — To  two  quarts  of  vinegar  add 
half  a pound  of  mustard  and  an  ounce  of  turpentine.  Mix  and  rub  on  the  belly 
and  back  and  then  tie  a blanket  around  the  horse. 

3.  Opium  and  Belladonna. — Give  from  one  to  two  drams  of  powdered 
opium  mixed  with  one  dram  of  extract  of  belladonna.  This  dose  may  be 
given  every  three  or  four  hours. 

4.  Oatmeal  Gruel,  Starch  Water,  Etc. — Apply  hot  blankets  to  the  belly 
and  give  oatmeal  gruel,  starch  water  or  linseed  tea. 

5.  White  Oak  Bark. — Make  a tea  of  white  oak  bark  and  give  large  and 
frequent  doses.  Apply  mustard  water  to  the  legs  and  to  the  body  apply 
blankets  wrung  out  of  hot  water  and  sprinkled  with  turpentine. 

PERITONITIS.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Opium  and  Calomel. — Every  2 to  4 hours  give  from  1 to  2 drams 
of  powdered  opium  mixed  with  V2  dram  of  calomel.  Also  apply  mustard 
plasters  or  turpentine  stupes  to  the  belly. 

HERNIA — RUPTURE. — A hernia  is  a protrusion  of  the  whole  or  a part 
of  an  organ  through  either  a natural  or  an  unnatural  opening.  It  usually 
means  a protrusion  of  some  of  the  intestines  from  the  abdominal  cavity.  The 
name  usually  indicates  the  location  and  we  meet  with  umbilical,  scrotal  and  in- 
guinal hernias.  When  it  interferes  with  the  circulation  of  the  parts  it  is 
called  strangulation.  In  many  cases  it  is  reducible. 

INGUINAL  HERNIA. — Inguinal  hernia  is  usually  met  with  in 
young  animals  or  stallions  and  consists  of  the  passage  of  a portion  of  the 
intestines  through  a ring  into  the  inguinal  canal,  becoming  strangulated  and 
producing  violent  colicky  pains.  These  are  difficult  cases  to  diagnose  and  if 
discovered  the  treatment  consists  in  casting  the  horse,  rolling  him  on  his 
back,  passing  the  hand  into  the  rectum,  seizing  the  bowel  and  shaking  it 
loose,  then  applying  a pad  and  keeping  the  bowel  within  the  body.  With 
this  treatment  the  parts  may  close  and  a recovery  take  place.  Otherwise,  it 
would  be  necessary  to  castrate  the  horse  by  the  covered  method. 

SCROTAL  HERNIA. — Scrotal  hernia  is  very  common  in  young  animals 
at  birth  and  it  very  often  gets  well  without  treatment.  When  it  produces  no 
harm  it  is  best  to  leave  it  alone  until  it  does. 

SYMPTOMS. — A bunch  of  this  kind  usually  increases  in  size  after  the 
animal  has  eaten  a hearty  meal.  It  is  always  larger  in  hot  weather  for  cold 
seems  to  contract  these  bunches.  A very  good  test  is  to  place  the  hand  on  the 
bunch  and  have  an  assistant  oblige  the  animal  to  cough ; when  coughing  the 
hernia  will  be  forced  out  and  enlarged.  It  is  always  a good  plan  to  examine 
the  hernia  before  castration. 

TREATMENT. — The  only  satisfactory  treatment  is  a surgical  operation 
and  this  work  should  be  done  by  an  expert.  Therefore,  it  is  needless  to  give 
directions  as  to  how  the  work  should  be  done. 

UMBILICAL  HERNIA. — Umbilical  hernia  is  a protrusion  of  the  bowel 
through  the  umbilicus  (navel  opening)  and  is  most  commonly  met  with  in 
young  animals.  It  seldom  causes  much  inconvenience  and  is  almost  always  re- 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


23 


duceable.  Of  course  there  is  some  danger  of  its  becoming  strangulated,  but  this 
is  the  exception.  Very  often  the  bunch  can  be  reduced  by  pressure  and  some 
veterinarians  try  bandages  or  a truss  before  they  will  consent  to  operate. 
Skewers  are  often  put  through  the  skin  and  a ligature  applied  back  of  them, 
or  a clamp  is  applied  and  left  on,  allowing  the  pouch  of  skin  to  slough  off. 
This  very  often  brings  about  a perfect  recovery.  I have  also  cut  into  the 
hernial  sack,  made  the  edges  of  the  abdomen  raw,  stitched  the  opening  with 
heavy  catgut  sutures,  then  placed  a bandage  and  pad  of  oakum  over  the 
bunch  and  obtained  splendid  recoveries. 

VENTRAL  HERNIA. — This  is  a kind  of  hernia  that  takes  place  through 
an  artificial  opening  in  the  abdomen.  It  is  the  result  of  accident.  It  is  very 
often  caused  by  kicks  or  being  hooked  by  cattle,  or  in  old  animals  it  some- 
times takes  place  on  account  of  the  abdominal  muscles  giving  way,  the  result 
of  over  exertion. 

TREATMENT. — If  very  small  it  is  not  always  advisable  to  do  much  for 
it  unless  it  increases  in  size,  becomes  strangulated  or  interferes  in  some  way 
with  the  usefulness  of  the  animal.  When  it  does  it  is  well  to  open  the  ab- 
domen, scarify  the  edges  of  the  opening,  stitch  them  together  with  heavy 
catgut,  treat  the  wound  antiseptically  and  wear  a bandage  and  pad  until  a 
recovery  takes  place. 

DIAPHRAGMATIC  HERNIA. — In  diaphragmatic  hernia  the  bowels 
pass  from  the  abdominal  to  the  thoracic  cavity  and  it  is  not  unusual  when  it 
occurs  to  find  several  feet  of  the  small  bowels  in  the  chest.  Death  always 
follows. 

Causes. — It  is  usually  the  result  of  severe  exertion. 

Symptoms. — Same  as  enteritis. 

Treatment. — Is  of  no  avail. 

INTESTINAL  WORMS— LONG  ROUND  WORMS— TAPEWORMS 
— PIN  WORMS. — The  tapeworms  have  flat  bodies  and  are  made  up  of  a 
succession  of  segments  or  links  with  a narrow  neck  and  quite  small  head, 
some  of  them  being  round  headed  and  others  flat  headed.  We  also  find  flukes 
of  a flat  shape  with  digestive  organs  and  a number  of  sucking  discs;  we  also 
find  the  thorn-headed  worms  with  long  rounded  bodies  and  retractible  snouts 
with  hooks  by  which  they  attach  themselves  to  the  mucous  membrane  of  the 
bowels,  but  they  have  neither  mouth  nor  digestive  canal.  The  horse  harbors 
in  his  bowels  tapeworms  and  round  worms  and  I have  seldom  failed  to  find 
them.  The  large  worms  usually  inhabit  the  small  intestines  and  the  small 
worms  reside  in  the  large  bov/els  and  as  the  large  worms  have  sixty  or  more 
feet  of  bowels  for  their  home,  it  is  not  surprising  that  they  are  difficult  to 
destroy  and  when  we  consider  that  the  small  worms  have  thirty  or  more  feet 
of  large  bowels  to  reside  in,  are  you  surprised  at  a single  dose  or  two  of 
medicine  failing  to  reach  them  all?  Horses  become  wormy  by  taking  food 
or  drinking  water  that  contains  worm  embryos  which,  when  meeting  the  heat 
and  moisture  of  the  body,  soon  grow  and  develop  into  worms  and  of  course 
they  multiply  rapidly  and  if  not  destroyed  or  passed  out  of  the  body  they 
disturb  digestion  and  pick  up  considerable  nutriment,  causing  the  animal  to 
get  out  of  condition  and  lose  flesh.  Besides,  I have  knov/n  them  to  puncture 
the  bowels. 

SYMPTOMS.— The  symptoms  are  shown  whenever  worms  are  present 
in  large  numbers  and  attach  themselves  to  the  mucous  membranes  or  when 
they  bore  through  these  to  reach  other  parts.  They  produce  signs  of  ill  health, 


24 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


poor  condition,  hide-bound,  a scurvy,  dry  state  of  the  skin,  pot-belly,  an  itchy 
condition  of  the  skin  and  root  of  tail  and  often  a voracious  appetite  with 
fetid  breath,  sometimes  diarrhea  and  at  other  times  costiveness.  There  is 
bloating  in  the  morning,  a puffy  swelling  and  itchy  condition  of  the  anus 
which  is  very  often  surrounded  with  a sort  of  dried  mucus,  rubbing  of  the 
tail  and  colicky  pains,  and  one  of  the  best  and  safest  symptoms  is  the  pass- 
age of  worms.  However,  it  is  not  always  possible  to  see  them  without  the 
use  of  a magnifying  glass. 

TREATMENT. — Perhaps  the  most  reliable  remedy  known  is  santonine; 
however,  it  should  be  given  in  one-dram  doses  combined  with  twenty  grains 
of  calomel  and  two  drams  of  powdered  kamala  and  made  into  a bolus  with 
linseed  meal  and  given  on  an  empty  stomach  in  the  morning,  daily  for  three 
or  four  days ; then  discontinue  for  several  days  and  repeat  it.  Another  popu- 
lar home  remedy  is  giving  one  ounce  of  turpentine  and  one  dram  of  oil  of 
miale  fern  in  one  pint  of  raw  linseed  oil  at  a dose  twice  a week  for  two  or 
three  weeks.  This  mixture  should  be  given  as  a drench  in  the  morning  accord- 
ing to  directions  for  drenching  horses.  All  vermicides  given  to  human  beings 
that  produce  good  results  are  proper  remedies  for  horses,  but  give  ten  times  the 
quantity  at  a dose.  For  pin  worms  wash  out  the  rectum  with  a gallon  or  two 
of  soap  suds,  then  use  an  infusion  of  quassia  which  is  made  by  soaking  one 
ounce  of  quassia  chips  for  one  hour  in  a pint  of  warm  water.  Or,  dissolve 
one  ounce  of  sulphate  of  iron  in  three  or  four  parts  of  tepid  water  and  use 
this  instead  of  the  quassia.  Or,  dissolve  three  ounces  of  common  salt  in  a 
gallon  of  tepid  water  and  use  this.  In  treating  wormy  live  stock  it  is  well 
to  consider  the  importance  of  removing  the  cause,  which  means  a change  of 
food  and  the  boiling  of  the  water  supply. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  WORMS.— 

1.  Fine-Cut  Tobacco. — Give  an  ounce  of  fine-cut  tobacco  in  the  feed  once 
a day  for  a week  or  ten  days. 

2.  Turpentine  and  Linseed  Oil. — Give  half  a pint  of  raw  linseed  oil  to 
which  has  been  added  an  ounce  of  turpentine. 

3.  Salt  and  Ashes. — Mix  equal  parts  of  salt  and  wood  ashes  and  give  two 
tablespoonfuls  at  a time  in  the  feed  once  a day. 

4.  Pin  Worms. — Once  or  twice  daily  inject  an  infusion  of  either  tobacco 
or  quassia  chips,  using  half  a pound  to  a gallon  of  water.  Repeat  once  or 
twice  a day  for  two  or  three  days  and  follow  with  a physic. 

5.  Pin  Worms. — Dissolve  a tablespoonful  of  salt  in  a quart  of  tepid 
water  and  wash  out  bowel  daily  for  a week. 

INTESTINAL  TUMORS. — Tumors,  if  not  large,  may  exist  in  the  intes- 
tines for  a long  time  without  doing  much  harm.  However,  when  they  grow 
large  they  are  always  troublesome,  very  often  causing  death. 

CAUSES. — Any  injury  to  the  bowel,  such  as  puncturing  for  flatulent  colic, 
or  some  rough  uneven  hard  substance  passing  through  the  bowel  may  be  the 
means  of  starting  a tumor-like  growth  and  it  is  not  uncommon  to  find  them  in 
white  horses  suffering  from  melanosis. 

SYMPTOMS. — A horse  suffering  from  tumors  in  the  bowel  usually  shows 
colicky  pains,  paws,  rolls  and  throws  himself  about  gently.  The  pulse  is 
slightly  quickened,  bowels  are  constipated,  the  body  and  extremities  become 
cold  and  the  animal  very  often  dies  in  a few  days. 

TREATMENT. — Give  morphia,  opium  or  belladonna  and  if  a correct 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


25 


diagnosis  can  be  made  and  the  services  of  a skillful  surgeon  can  be  had  ask 
him  to  operate,  for  this  is  the  only  possible  chance  of  saving  the  horse’s  life. 

INTESTINAL  CONCRETIONS. — Intestinal  concretions  sometimes 
form  in  the  bowels  and  block  them.  They  are  usually  hard  and  are  composed 
of  lime,  magnesia,  hair,  meal  and  many  other  substances.  Many  of  these 
masses  have  some  hard  substance  as  a sort  of  nucleus  around  which  these 
substances  seem  to  fasten  and  accumulate. 

CAUSE.S. — Animals  that  lick  others  during  the  shedding  season  and  cows 
that  are  fond  of  picking  up  pieces  of  wood,  metal  or  leather  are  quite  likely 
to  have  trouble  of  this  kind.  Besides,  certain  kinds  of  feed  are  likely  to  pro- 
duce dust  balls. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  usually  has  considerable  abdominal  pain  and 
as  the  disease  progresses  the  hcise  is  inclined  to  sit  on  his  haunches  and  if 
the  bowel  is  entirely  blocked  he  soon  shows  all  the  symptoms  of  enteritis  or 
inflammation  of  the  bowels. 

TREATMENT. — Eirst  of  all  it  is  good  treatment  to  wash  out  the  rectum 
with  soap  and  water  that  is  a little  warmer  than  the  temperature  of  the  body. 
If  there  be  much  pain,  opiates  should  be  given  and  there  is  none  better  than 
tincture  of  opium  (laudanum)  and  in  the  horse  large  doses  of  purgative  medi- 
cine should  be  given.  Raw  linseed  oil  or  sweet  oil  is  the  safest.  If  aloes, 
calomel  and  ginger  are  given,  it  should  be  in  the  early  stages  before  any  in- 
flammation of  the  bowels  has 'taken  place.  A horse  can  often  be  relieved  by 
introducing  the  hand  into  the  rectum  and  removing  the  obstruction,  providing 
the  impaction  is  in  the  posterior  bowel  and  within  reach.  It  is  well  to  keep 
in  mind  that  it  is  easy  to  injure  the  bowel;  therefore,  the  finger  nails  should 
be  cut  short  and  the  hand  well  oiled  before  this  work  is  done. 

DYSENTERY. — This  term  is  used  when  blood  comes  away  mixed  with 
the  feces  and  it  may  or  may  not  occur  as  an  independent  disease. 

CAUSES. — It  is  very  often  the  result  of  tuberculosis  of  the  bowel  or  due 
to  the  presence  of  irritants  in  the  intestines.  It  also  comes  from  drinking 
stagnant  or  impure  water;  besides,  an  inferior  quality  of  feed  often  causes  it. 

SYMPTOMS. — An  excessive  bowel  action  and  some  blood  and  mucus 
mixed  in  the  evacuations  are  common  symptoms  of  dysentery.  The  puke  is 
usually  quick,  the  animal  thirsty,  bowels  ulcerated,  coat  dry  and  hot,  and  if  the 
animal  does  not  get  relief  he  loses  strength  rapidly  and  death  may  be  the  result. 

TREATMENT. — I invariably  give  a dose  of  oil,  either  raw  linseed  or 
olive  oil.  Castor  oil  is  often  given  with  good  results.  Chalk  and  opium,  ether, 
whiskey,  brandy  or  rum  are  proper  remedies.  Catechu,  tannic  acid,  starch 
and  wheat  flour  act  very  well.  Whenever  the  bowel  discharges  lessen  mater- 
ially, begin  to  give  tonics  such  as  equal  parts  of  sulphate  of  iron,  gentian, 
ginger  and  cinchona,  a tablespoonful  at  a dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times  a 
clay.  It  is  always  a mistake  to  allow  an  animal  to  have  too  much  hearty  food 
or  vegetables  after  recovering  from  an  attack  of  this  kind;  besides,  he  should 
be  kept  reasonahlv  quiet. 

DIARRHEA. — Diarrhea  consists  in  the  passage  of  too  much  liquid  feces 
and  it  is  very  often  the  result  of  other  ailments,  such  as  indigestion  and  enter- 
itis. 

CAUSES. — Eating  infected  food,  too  much  rich  food  when  the  animal  is 
not  accustomed  to  it,  drinking  stagnant  or  filthv  water,  grazing  on  bare  pas- 
tures where  too  much  earth  is  taken  in  with  the  food  and  eating  too  many 
vegetables  and  badly  cured  fodder  are  among  the  causes  of  diarrhea.  Certain 


26 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


rangy  horses  with  slim  bodies,  flat  ribs  and  which  are  poorly  ribbed  up,  arc 
subject  to  looseness  of  the  bowels. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  passage  of  too  much  liquid  fecal  matter  and  exhibit- 
ing symptoms  of  pain  each  time  the  bowels  are  moved  are  symptoms  of  diar- 
rhea. In  the  early  stages  the  heart  action  is  not  much  changed ; however, 
later  on  the  circulation  quickens  and  the  extremities  may  grow  cold;  also,  the 
animal  may  stagger,  indicating  considerable  weakness. 

TREATMENT. — Find  out  if  possible  whether  the  case  is  acute  or  chronic. 
It  is  generally  good  practice  to  give  from  one  pint  to  one  quart  of  raw  linseed 
oil  or  sweet  oil.  It  is  also  a good  plan  to  give  sweet  spirits  of  nitre,  ginger, 
and  opium ; one-half  ounce  of  each  at  a dose  in  a pint  of  water,  three  or  four 
times  a day.  The  quantity  of  opium  should  be  increased  if  the  bowel  action 
is  not  checked ; or  you  may  give  one  dram  powdered  opium,  two  drams  pow- 
dered catechu  and  one  ounce  prepared  chalk  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a 
day.  Very  often  by  giving  flour  or  starch  in  water  two  or  three  times  a day  the 
case  will  be  helped ; besides,  wheat  flour  gruel  is  a proper  food  to  give.  In 
the  treatment  of  young  foals  they  should  be  given  medicine  very  carefully,  in 
the  same  way,  but  given  in  very  sm.all  doses.  If  the  disease  is  due  to  micro-or- 
ganisms, bowel  antiseptics  such  as  creosote,  carbolic  acid,  hypo-sulphite  soda 
or  salol  should  be  given  and  counter-irritants  applied  externally. 

DIARRHEA  IN  YOUNG  COLTS.— This  is  brought  on  by  the  colt’s 
getting  too  much  rich  milk  from  the  mother  or  from  her  udder  being  in- 
fected, or  from  exposure. 

CAUSES. — The  first  milk  from  the  mare  or  sow  possesses  laxative  prop- 
erties ; therefore,  if  the  colt  takes  too  much  it  is  likely  to  produce  diarrhea. 
Sometimes  it  is  the  result  of  the  mare’s  milk  being  of  poor  quality ; or,  if  she 
is  working  and  becomes  overheated,  this  changes  her  milk.  It  is  also  the  re- 
sult of  exposure  to  storms  and  lying  on  wet  cold  ground. 

SYMPTOMS. — Watery  bowel  movements. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  colt  quiet,  clothe  his  body  warm  and  bandage 
the  legs  if  they  are  cold.  Give  a small  teaspoonful  of  laudanum  and  a large 
teaspoonful  of  good  whiskey,  twenty  drops  spirits  of  camphor  and  five  grains 
of  powdered  alum  in  some  of  the  mare’s  milk  every  three  or  four  hours  until 
the  bowels  tighten.  Or,  give  five  grains  sulphate  iron  in  one  ounce  water 
every  three  hours.  Or,  you  can  give  any  good  home  remedy  that  is  used  in 
diarrhea  or  dvsentery  in  man. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— For  Diarrhea  in  Young  Colts.— 

1.  Flour. — Mix  two  tablesnoonfuls  of  flour  with  a teacupful  of  cold  water 
and  drench  the  colt  twice  a day.  If  the  case  is  severe  and  attended  with 
much  pain  apply  a mustard  plaster  to  the  abdomen  and  give  a drench  of  2 
tablespoon  fills  of  whiskey.  1 ounce  of  castor  oil  and  10  drops  of  laudanum. 

2.  Preventive. — To  prevent  scouring  in  foals  do  not  feed  the  mare  vege- 
tables or  too  much  grass  to  puro-e  her  soon  after  foaling  but  feed  some  old 
oats  and  well  cured  fodder.  This  comes  from  a Granger  living  in  Stockton, 
Iowa. 

CONSTIPATION. — Constipation  is  more  a symptom  of  disease  than  a 
disease  itself. 

CAUSES. — Perhans  over  feedinp*  anfl  want  of  exerri‘^e  are  the  most  com- 
mon causes  of  constipation.  A ranid  absorption  of  the  fluids  of  the  bowels 
during  fever  alwavs  has  a tendency  to  produce  constipation.  It  is  also  an 
indication  of  a torpid  liver.  Certain  kinds  of  food  cause  it;  it  can  be  brought 


horse— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


27 


<vi  by  feeding  too  much  nourishing  food  or  too  much  non-nutritious  food ; be- 
sides, it  often  follows  indigestion  and  derangement  of  the  digestive  system, 
especially  in  old  animals. 

SYMPTOMS. — As  a rule  it  is  not  difficult  to  make  a diagnosis,  but  do 
not  be  misled  if  a slight  diarrhea  is  present,  for  this  is  often  set  up  as  an  effort 
of  nature  to  empty  the  bowels.  The  dung  is  often  covered  with  mucus,  the 
animal  presents  a dull  appearance,  shows  some  abdominal  pain  at  times,  rolls 
some,  bloats  a little,  and  the  trouble  is  usually  in  the  large  bowels.  The 
rectum  is  usually  irritated  and  protrudes  somewhat.  This  is  a result  of  the 
horse  making  an  effort  to  empty  his  bowels. 

TREATMENT. — If  a horse  is  affected,  give  aloes;  if  an  ox,  give  epsom 
salts  or  oil ; and  castor  oil  for  the  dog.  It  is  well  to  give  a little  ginger,  or 
capsicum  to  prevent  griping,  or  a decoction  of  tobacco  as  an  injection  and  it 
is  often  necessary  to  empty  the  bowel  by  hand,  especially  if  there  is  any  par- 
alysis of  the  rectum.  In  chronic  constipation  it  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that 
nearly  all  vegetables  have  a laxative  effect ; therefore,  they  should  be  fed  to  all 
idle  horses.  The  bowels  move  much  more  often  when  an  animal  is  exercised 
than  when  standing  still.  Therefore,  exercise  is  a preventive. 

CONSTIPATION  IN  YOUNG  COLTS. — Nearly  every  colt  is  costive 
when  born. 

CAUSES. — It  is  more  likely  to  occur  in  colts  when  the  mother  has  been 
fed  on  dry  food  and  her  bowels  are  in  a costive  state. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  constipation  if  the  bowels  of  a colt  do  not  move 
within  twelve  or  twenty-four  hours  after  birth. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  bowels  do  not  move  within  twelve  or  twenty- 
four  hours  after  birth,  inject  sweet  oil  or  push  in  a round,  smooth,  tapered 
piece  of  ivory  soap  or  a glycerine  suppository,  or  something  that  is  oily  and 
not  irritating,  but  be  sure  not  to  injure  the  bowel.  Sometimes  soap  suds  act 
very  well. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES. — For  Constipation  in  Foals. — 

1.  Castor  Oil. — Give  from  2 to  4 ounces  of  castor  oil  at  a dose.  The 
lives  of  many  foals  would  be  saved  if  the  constipated  condition  of  the  bowels 
was  noticed  and  this  treatment  given. 

VOLVULUS. — Volvulus  is  a twisting  or  kinking  of  the  bowel  that  occurs 
when  the  animal  is  rolling.  Young  animals  appear  to  be  more  affected  than 
older  ones  and  it  is  not  uncommon  to  have  it  take  place  while  an -animal  is 
suffering  from  colic. 

SY”MPTOMS. — This  is  an  ailment  that  is  difficult  to  diagnose  for  the 
symptoms  are  very  much  the  same  as  in  inflammation  of  the  bowels,  but 
the  animal  very  often  shows  more  distress.  The  animal  sits  on  his  haunches, 
much  like  a dog. 

TREATMENT. — As  a rule  very  little  can  be  done  to  prevent  a fatal  term- 
ination but  it  is  always  good  practice  to  give  remedies  that  will  quiet  the 
animal  and  there  is  none  better  than  tincture  of  opium  (laudanum)  given  in 
one-ounce  doses  as  often  as  necessary  to  allay  the  pain.  In  my  practice  I 
advise  the  destruction  of  a horse  that  has  volvulus  and  cannot  be  relieved 
from  the  pain,  for  this  is  the  humane  thing  to  do. 

INTUSSUSCEPTION. — Intussusception  means  a slipping  of  a portion 
of  bowel  within  another  very  much  as  a telescope  is  shortened.  It  occurs  in 
both  the  large  and  small  intestines,  but  I have  found  the  small  intestines  to 
be  most  frequently  involved. 


28 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


CAUSES. — No  one  has  ever  been  able  to  tell  the  exact  cause;  however,  it 
frequently  follows  attacks  of  spasmodic  colic  when  there  is  violent  muscular 
contraction  of  the  bowels  and  it  is  most  common  in  young  animals. 

SYMPTOMS. — Almost  identical  with  those  of  volvulus. 

TREATMENT. — A surgical  operation  is  sometimes  attended  with  good 
results ; however,  to  be  successful  the  work  must  be  well  done.  I have  known 
a portion  of  the  bowel  to  slough  and  come  away  showing  that  nature  effected 
a cure.  (See  treatment  for  volvulus  and  follow  it.) 

PROLAPSUS  ANI— FALLING  OF  BOWEL.— Prolapsus  ani  or  fallen 
bowel  is  a condition  of  the  rectum  which  follows  irritation  of  the  bowel,  very 
often  from  what  is  termed  back-racking  when  the  hand  of  the  operator  was  too 
large  or  when  he  neglected  to  oil  his  hand  properly  or  when  too  much  force 
was  used. 

CAUSES. — It  is  caused  by  anything  that  irritates  or  inflames  the  rectum 
such  as  irritating  drugs  in  injections  and  giving  certain  medicine  to  purge 
animals  or  inexperienced  persons  emptying  the  bowel  by  hand. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a red  looking  mass  protruding  from  the  bowel 
the  size  of  a pint  measure  or  sometimes  even  larger. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all  wash  out  the  bowel  with  tepid  water,  using 
a small  rubber  tube ; however,  in  case  the  water  fails  the  hand  should  be  used 
and  the  smaller  the  hand  the  better.  The  protruding  part  should  be  washed 
clean  and  forced  back  into  place  and  the  hind  quarters  raised  eight  or  ten 
inches  higher  than  the  fore  quarters.  This  is  best  done  by  arranging  the 
stall  floor.  Put  pound  of  sugar  of  lead,  four  ounces  of  laudanum  and  one 
ounce  of  tannic  acid  into  a gallon  of  cold  water  and  apply  to  the  rectum  five 
times  a day.  Keep  the  bowels  open  by  feeding  well  salted  bran  mashes,  vege- 
tables, or  grass  or  give  some  raw  linseed  oil.  I have  sometimes  found  it 
necessary  to  remove  a portion  of  the  bowel,  but  not  until  it  had  become 
gangrenous. 

RUPTURE  OF  THE  RECTUM. — Rupture  of  the  rectum  is  by  no  means 
an  uncommon  injury.  It  often  occurs  by  the  careless  use  of  metal  syringes, 
mal-address  in  mating  mares,  in  taking  away  foals  and  in  back-racking. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  consists  in  stitching  the  break  with 
strong  catgut  and  bringing  the  edges  as  closely  together  as  possible,  then 
keeping  the  bowel  clean  and  not  too  full  and  washing  it  out  daily  with  one 
part  carbolic  acid,  two  parts  glycerine  and  fifty  parts  water. 

SORE  MOUTH. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  mucous  membrane  fol- 
lowing many  different  constitutional  and  exciting  causes. 

CAUSES. — Stomach  disturbances  from  eating  too  much  bad  food  is  a 
cause;  or,  eating  irritating  things  or  taking  drugs  which  have  a caustic  or 
irritating  effect  will  often  produce  an  inflamed  condition  of  the  mouth. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  mouth  is  swollen,  hot  and  tender;  there  is  drool- 
ing of  saliva  and  there  is  always  a reddened  appearance  of  the  mouth,  and 
sometimes  small  ulcers  or  blisters  can  be  seen;  however,  this  is  not  very 
common. 

TREATMENT. — Feed  grass  or  damp,  cut  fodder;  also  feed  soft  mashes 
that  will  not  irritate  the  mouth.  Dissolve  V2  ounce  of  borax  in  a pint  of 
water  and  wash  out  the  mouth  twice  a day.  There  are  many  home  remedies 
that  will  do  just  as  well  as  drugs.  Alum,  salt  or  chlorate  of  potash  are  very 
good. 

STOMATITIS. — This  is  the  name  usually  given  to  a soreness  that  oc- 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


curs  in  the  month  and  on  the  tongue,  very  often  occurring  when  young  ani- 
mals are  teething. 

CAUSES. — Eating  infected  food  which  causes  a derangement  of  the 
stomach  and  digestive  organs,  lack  of  nourishment,  debility  from  scours, 
becoming  infected  through  the  navel,  and  the  cutting  of  teeth  appear  to 
be  the  common  causes  of  this  ailment.  It  usually  affects  young  animals ; 
however,  old  ones  are  sometimes  affected. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a redness  of  the  mouth,  with  a dripping  of 
saliva.  A few  days  later  small  white  points  appear  on  the  membrane  of 
the  mouth  and  these  soon  begin  to  break,  giving  off  rather  an  offensive  odor, 
then  the  mouth  presents  a gangrenous  appearance. 

TREATMENT. — A change  of  food  is  always  advisable.  The  bowels 
should  be  moved  gently  by  giving  epsom  salts  or  raw  linseed  oil.  Antiseptic 
and  astringent  gargles  should  be  applied  and  as  a rule  tonics  should  be  given. 
If  diarrhea  is  present  give  small  doses  of  opium,  lime  water  and  creosote  and 
continue  the  lime  water  for  a week  or  ten  days.  Also  give  quinine  three  or 
four  times  a day  or  any  of  the  home  tonics  that  are  used  by  the  family. 
The  mouth  should  be  washed  out  three  or  four  times  a day  and  if  it  is  gan- 
grenous put  one  dram  of  permanganate  of  potash  into  twenty  ounces  of 
water,  or  one  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  into  forty  ounces  of  water,  or  one  ounce 
of  coal-tar  disinfectant  into  fifteen  ounces  of  water  and  swab  out  the  mouth 
two  or  three  times  daily.  After  using  these  washes  it  is  a good  plan  to  wash 
out  the  mouth  with  warm  water. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  STOMATITIS  OR  INFLAMMA- 
TION OF  THE  MOUTH.— 

1.  Alum  Water. — As  a mouth  wash  use  an  ounce  of  alum  to  a quart 
of  water.  Give  soft  feed  only. 

2.  Borax. — Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  borax  in  a pint  of  water  and  use 
as  a mouth  wash.  Hard  dry  feed  irritates  the  mouth  so  give  nothing  but 
soft  feed. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  TONGUE— GLOSSITIS.— (See  ‘‘  Cattle 
Department.”) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Alum. — As  a wash  use  half  an  ounce  of  alum  to  a pint  of  water. 

2.  Borax. — Dissolve  an  ounce  of  borax  in  a quart  of  water  and  use 
as  a mouth  wash.  Nothing  is  better. 

SLAVERING  OR  FROTHING  AT  THE  MOUTH.— This  is  a con- 
dition usually  brought  on  by  sharp  points  of  the  teeth  irritating  the  cheeks 
or  tongue  or  by  giving  horses  strong  irritating  drugs  which  make  the  mouth 
sore  or  by  the  horse  accidentally  picking  up  irritating  things.  Foreign 
substances  lodged  in  the  mouth  or  tongue  always  cause  an  abnormal  flow 
of  saliva  and  so  do  some  kinds  of  foods,  such  as  second  crop  clover.  Colts 
unaccustomed  to  the  bit  very  often  froth  at  the  mouth. 

TREATMENT. — If  it  is  caused  by  sharp,  uneven  molar  teeth,  file  off 
the  outer  edges  of  the  upper  row  and  the  inside  of  the  lower  row.  If  it  is 
caused  by  a foreign  body,  remove  it.  Dissolve  one  ounce  of  borax  or  one 
ounce  of  powdered  alum  or  one  ounce  of  baking  soda  in  a quart  of  water  and 
wash  out  the  mouth  three  times  a day,  using  not  less  than-  % pint  at  a time. 
Feed  the  animal  a cooling,  laxative  diet  and  if  your  colt  slavers  on  account  of 
the  bit  when  you  drive  him,  let  him  wear  it  when  not  in  harness  and  not  eating. 


30 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SALIVATION.— 

1.  Alum. — Dissolve  an  ounce  of  alum  in  a quart  of  water  and  use  as 
a gargle  or  apply  with  a sponge  or  soft  cloth. 

IRREGULAR  TEETH. — (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

CAPS  ON  TEETH. — (See  ” Cattle  Department.”) 

DECAYED  TEETH— CARIES.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

LAMPAS. — Whenever  the  gums  behind  the  incisor  or  nipper  teeth  are 
somewhat  full  and  up  a little  high,  either  with  or  without  inflammation,  it 
is  called  lampas. 

CAUSES. — Any  irritant  that  will  cause  sore  mouth  will  produce  a swell- 
ing of  the  gums  and  bars  of  the  mouth ; besides,  lampas  is  always  present  in 
three,  four  and  five-year-olds  when  their  permanent  teeth  are  coming  in 
but  older  horses  are  not  often  troubled  this  way. 

SYMPTOMS. — An  inflamed  condition  of  the  gums  and  a swollen  condi- 
tion of  the  bars  close  to  the  incisor  teeth  are  the  two  prominent  symptoms 
of  lampas ; however,  in  some  cases  the  gums  are  quite  tender. 

TREATMENT. — Food  that  is  not  too  stimulating,  such  as  bran  mash 
or  vegetables  and  grass  to  open  the  bowels,  always  assists  in  reducing  the 
inflammation  of  the  gums.  Washing  the  mouth  out  three  times  a day  with 
either  borax  or  alum  and  water,  % ounce  of  either  to  a pint  of  water,  or  a weak 
salt  solution  does  good.  Never  allow  any  person  to  burn  them,  for  this  is 
cruel,  but  I sometimes  cut  bars  with  a penknife  to  allow  the  serum  to 
escape.  Feeding  corn  to  colts  that  have  lampas  is  a mistake  for  it  only 
makes  them  worse.  They  should  be  given  soft  feed. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LAMPAS.— 

1.  Alum  Water. — Use  alum  water  as  a mouth  wash.  This  will  be  found 
an  effective  remedy. 

THE  TONGUE,  INJURIES  TO. — The  tongue  is  quite  likely  to  suffer 
from  injuries  and  in  many  difi'erent  ways. 

CAUSES. — The  tongue  may  be  injured  by  being  cut  by  sharp  teeth, 
giving  irritating  medicine  without  plenty  of  water  and  by  foreign  bodies 
lodging  in  the  tongue.  I have  found  rubber  rings  around  the  tongue ; also 
hog  rings  through  the  lower  portion  of  the  tongue  of  crib-biting  horses. 

TREx\TMENT. — In  all  cases  of  sore  tongue  it  is  very  important  that 
a careful  examination  of  the  tongue  be  made  with  the  hand  for  if  this  is  not 
done  the  cause  may  not  be  discovered.  If  a foreign  body  is  found,  remove 
it  at  once  and  wash  out  the  mouth  with  warm  water,  then  apply  any  of 
the  home  gargles  used  in  human  practice ; or,  dissolve  i/2  ounce  of  alum,  or 
% ounce  of  borax,  or  one  ounce  of  salt  in  one  quart  of  water  and  apply 
to  the  tongue  three  times  daily.  If  the  discharge  is  offensive  apply  anti- 
septic washes,  such  as  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  99  parts  water,  or  any 
of  the  reliable  coal-tar  disinfectants,  making  the  lotion  one  part  to  fifty  of 
water. 

STRICTURE  OF  THE  CESOPHAGUS.— This  is  usually  the  result  of 
choking  brought  on  by  continued  inflammation  of  the  gullet  following  the 
accident. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  passing  the  probang  it  moves  down  easily  until 
it  reaches  a certain  point,  there  it  is  passed  with  difficulty  and  ^ after  more 
force  is  used  the  stricture  gives  way,  then  the  probang  moves  along  easily. 

TREATMENT. — As  a rule  treatment  in  these  cases  does  not  give  satis- 
factory results;  however,  I have  had  cases  of  this  kind  in  valuable  animals 


mi-:tmods  of  si-:curixg  the  horse  wim  i*:  (hvixg  medicixi*:  or 

PEREORMIXG  AX  OEl'.R A'l'lOX. 


HORSIC  BACKED  IX  STALL  READY  FOR  OPERATIOX. 

A horse  may  be  l^acked  into  the  stall  and  secured  when  necessary  to  give  a 
drench  or  perform  a minor  operation.  Dr.  Fair  is  abonl  to  tloat  (lile)  the  teeth. 
The  teeth  of  every  horse  shonld  be  carefully  examined  once  a year  and  attended  to 
if  ncccssar}". 

(Photographed  at  Dr.  h'air’s  \T‘terinary  llosi)ital  especially  for  this  book.) 


HORSE  IX  SIMPLY  COXS'PRUCTED  STOCKS  READY  FOR  OPERATIOX. 

Dr.  Fair,  with  h'nglish  Sliding  Chisel,  is  about  to  cut  a large  abdominal  growth 
from  a molar  tooth.  'Phe  assistant  is  handing  him  a balling  iron  for  keeping  the 
horse’s  mouth  open.  These  stcK'ks  are  very  simple.  The  horse's  legs  may  be  hoppled 
if  necessary. 

(Photograi)hed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hospital  especially  for  this  book.) 


V. 


,2^^.  :.-  ''ij^Sj'Vi  ?.,  '■■  >r>  -/J'j./t-  ' i iiCiv  • '"  ' '-^il^ 


>®Kp/' .«  ■■'•■  u '.\>^  fjfe*'’ • • •'•uv  <■^^'-^■  Sf^ %/'■•-  ■■  - '.-Vi^ ■'■■••’  - ■•r:35l 


^ ',  ,U'  ’"l.v 


i V L'-v:" . . 1^"' 


:V  . -.'•'f^-  -■.  '‘V  ‘. -■^ 


:>  > 


V' 


-.  .'  -s.  -■-^'< 

W-..OM  ’ .,>  •':; 


yi''  ■’  ■ ' * . ■ . .- ^•■■■■''? 

. ......  . - 


VARIOUS  INTESTINAL  WORMS.  BOTS  IN  A HORSE’S  STOMACH  AND  INTESTINE. 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


31 


where  I arrang^ed  to  have  the  probang  passed  daily,  increasing  the  size  of 
the  probang  until  the  stricture  was  dilated  and  a recovery  took  place. 

DILATION  OF  THE  CESOPHAGUS.— This  is  usually  the  result  of 
choking  caused  from  a stretching  or  enlargement  of  the  gullet  at  a certain 
point  when  the  accident  occurred. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  order  to  arrive  at  a correct  diagnosis  it  is  often 
necessary  to  pass  a probang;  however,  very  little  can  be  done  for  an  ailment 
of  this  kind  more  than  to  give  oil  when  the  attack  is  on  and  feed  sloppy  food. 
When  the  swelling  is  high  up  a pad  is  sometimes  applied  to  good  advantage. 

CHOKING.— 

CAUSES. — Choking  occurs  in  all  animals,  but  it  is  perhaps  of  most  fre- 
quent occurrence  among  cattle  and  of  course  is  due  to  the  arrest  of  some 
substance  swallowed  on  its  way  to  the  stomach  and  clogging  the  gullet,  thus 
preventing  the  passage  of  either  liquid  or  solid  food  from  the  mouth  to  the 
stomach.  It  is  often  caused  in  a simple  way  as,  for  instance,  was  the  case 
with  a valuable  saddle  mare  brought  to  my  hospital  suffering  from  choke 
and  in  great  distress.  We  cast  her,  rolled  her  on  her  back  and  extended  her 
head  preparatory  to  passing  the  probang ; however,  before  doing  so  I used 
a mouth  speciduin  and  introducing  my  hand  into  the  back  part  of  the  mouth,  I 
picked  out  a fresh  hen’s  egg.  This  mare  was  owned  by  Judge  Williamson, 
General  Counsel  of  the  New  York  Central  Railway  Lines.  It  appears  the 
mare  had  swallowed  the  egg  while  eating  mash  out  of  a feed  box  that  a hen 
had  used  for  a nest.  A hungry,  greedy  animal  often  takes  large  mouthfuls 
and  swallows  food  partially  masticated  and  too  dry  and  therefore  chokes. 
Animals  frequently  choke  on  potatoes,  apples,  turn.ps  or  other  vegetables, 
or  by  picking  up  pieces  of  coal,  bones  or  wood.  I have  known  horses  to 
choke  by  living  them  large  dry  horse  pills. 

SYiNii'TOMS. — One  of  the  first  symiitoms  is  uneasiness,  coughing,  at- 
tempts at  swallowing,  spasmodic  movements  of  the  neck  when  attempting 
to  drink  water  which  returns  through  the  nostrils.  When  cattle  are  choked 
there  is  usually  considerable  coughing. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all,  find  out,  if  possible,  the  probable  cause 
and  if  found  to  be  a substance  that  can  be  crushed  this  should  be  done. 
If  the  obstruction  is  lodged  in  the  pharynx  it  can  often  be  removed  by  the 
hand,  otherwise  pushed  down  with  a probang.  In  cattle  this  is  easily  accom- 
plished, even  with  a flexible  whip  handle ; however,  in  horses  it  is  much  more 
difficult.  In  some  cases  I have  found  it  necessary  to  cut  the  object  out; 
however,  this  should  be  done  bv  a veterinarian. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CHOKING.— 

1.  Fomentations. — Apply  hot  fomentations  just  above  the  choke  until 
the  parts  are  relaxed  and  then  work  the  obstacle  loose  with  the  hands. 
Sweet  oil  or  linseed  oil  poured  down  the  throat  will  help. 

2.  Soap-suds. — Pour  a liberal  quantity  of  thick  soap-suds  down  the 
throat. 

3.  Hose. — Run  a rubber  hose  down  the  throat.  This  should  be  done 
with  care. 

BOTS  (HORSE  BOT-FLY). — Bots  are  the  result  of  larvae  dropped 
by  the  horse  bot-fly  and  usually  deposited  in  the  form  of  a yellow  nit  that 
the  fly  fastens  to  the  hair  on  some  part  of  the  horse,  most  commonly  on 
the  chest  and  legs.  The  young  larvae  are  licked  off  by  the  horse  and  taken 
into  the  mouth  and  transferred  to  different  parts  of  the  body,  generally 


32 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


passing  into  the  stomach  where  they  develop  and  attach  themselves  to  the 
mucus  lining,  where  they  remain  until  fully  developed.  The  hot  is  not 
nearly  so  dangerous  as  it  is  supposed  to  be.  Nearly  all  horses  that  are  ex- 
posed to  flies  have  bots  and  after  remaining  in  the  stomach  for  five  or  six 
months  come  away  with  the  feces  and  for  choice  bury  themselves  in  the 
ground  or  under  filth  and  in  six  or  eight  weeks  become  winged  bot-flies. 

TREATMENT. — Bots  are  supposed  to  do  a great  deal  of  harm ; how- 
ever, this  is  a mistaken  idea,  for  there  may  be  a great  many  of  them  in  the 
stomach  without  even  disturbing  digestion  very  much.  Drugs  given  to  horses 
with  bots  seldom  do  much  good.  Well-groomed  horses  may  be  entirely 
free  from  them  and  those  that  are  wiped  with  a rag  that  has  been  satu- 
rated in  kerosene  may  also  be  free  from  them,  for  kerosene  destroys  the  nits. 
Applying  one  part  vinegar  and  two  parts  water  to  the  horse’s  coat  during 
the  fly  season  will  also  destroy  the  gadfly  eggs.  By  using  these  home 
remedies  you  can  very  easily  prevent  your  horse  from  having  bots.  A favorite 
remedy  is  milk  and  molasses.  This  is  used  a great  deal.  Try  giving  one- 
half  ounce  of  turpentine,  and  four  ounces  of  raw  linseed  oil  on  an  empty 
stomach  every  morning  until  three  doses  have  been  given,  then  give  six 
drams  of  powdered  aloes,  twenty-five  grains  of  calomel  and  two  drams 
ground  ginger  two  hours  after  giving  the  last  dose. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BOTS.— 

1.  Indigo  Water. — Make  some  weak  indigo  water  and  drench  the 
horse  with  it.  This  will  knock  the  bots. 

2.  Milk  and  Syrup. — Give  the  horse  a drench  of  a quart  of  sweet  milk 
and  the  same  quantity  of  honey  or  molasses.  The  sweetness  of  this  drench 
causes  the  bots  to  loosen  their  hold  on  the  stomach  and  then  an  ounce  of 
turpentine  given  in  a pint  of  raw  linseed  oil  will  expel  the  bots. 

3.  Hop  Tea. — Drench  the  horse  with  a quart  of  strong  hop  tea. 

4.  Red  Pepper  Tea. — Give  the  horse  a quart  of  strong  red  pepper  tea. 
This  causes  the  bots  to  let  loose  of  the  stomach  and  they  may  then  be 
expelled  with  a pint  of  raw  linseed  oil. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  LIVER— HEPATITIS— ALSO  CON- 
GESTION  OF  THE  LIVER. — Congestion  of  the  liver  is  a very  common 
ailment  of  horses  in  warm  climates  where  they  feed  on  luxuriant  grasses. 
Over-fed  animals  that  are  idle  and  kept  in  badly  ventilated  stables  in  low 
level  land  in  the  South  are  very  often  sufferers  from  liver  congestion  and 
inflammation  of  the  liver.  Inflammation  does  not  by  any  means  always  fol- 
low congestion  of  the  liver. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  cases  of  congestion  of  the  liver  the  animal  often 
appears  as  though  he  had  been  poisoned,  very  often  showing  great  pros- 
tration with  dull  sunken  eyes,  an  anxious  face,  quick  pulse,  quick  breathing 
and  trembling  with  violent  colicky  pains.  He  frequently  looks  at  the  flank, 
lying  down  and  rising.  The  mucous  membranes  are  yellow  and  in  some  cases 
there  appears  to  be  a slow  sort  of  congestion  going  on.  Upon  striking  the 
animal  a blow  on  the  right  side  in  the  region  of  the  last  ribs,  he  appears 
tender.  The  bowels  at  first  may  be  loose  but  gradually  harden.  The  appe- 
tite is  usually  gone  and  the  legs  frequently  stock.  In  some  cases  the 
horse  shows  lameness  in  the  right  foreleg.  If  the  lungs  or  heart  are  impaired 
the  liver  is  generally  affected  to  a certain  extent;  therefore,  derangement 
of  the  liver  is  often  a symptom  of  other  diseases  and  diseases  of  the  liver  are 
yery  difficult  to  diagnose. 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


33 


TREATMENT. — A full  dose  of  carthartic  medicine  should  be  given  but 
avoid  giving  calomel  when  the  liver  is  congested.  Good  results  follow  giving 
epsom  salts  in  three  or  four-ounce  doses  twice  a day  and  feeding  the  animal 
on  easily  digested  food.  Inflammation  of  the  liver  (hepatitis)  should  be 
treated  very  much  the  same  as  congestion  of  the  liver,  adding  mild  stimulants 
and  applying  light  applications  of  mustard  and  water  over  the  right  side. 
Give  scalded  bran  and  some  mixed  hay.  Carrots  and  grass  are  proper  foods 
foi  an  animal  in  this  condition. 

PEOPLE’S  PIOME  REMEDIES  FOR  HEPATITIS  OR  INFLAMMA- 
TION OF  THE  LIVER.— 

1.  Bleeding,  Etc. — Draw  from  four  to  six  quarts  of  blood  from  the 
jugular  vein  and  give  one-half-ounce  doses  of  saltpeter  three  or  four  times 
a day.  Feed  sparingly  and  chiefly  on  bran  mashes. 

JAUNDICE — YELLOWS. — Jaundice  or  “yellows,”  as  it  is  often  called, 
is  the  most  common  disorder  of  the  liver. 

CAUSES. — It  is  very  often  the  result  of  debilitating  fevers  and  other 
diseases ; also,  it  results  from  eating  too  much  rich  food  when  idle.  It  is,  no 
doubt,  often  the  result  of  a stoppage  of  the  bill  duct  and  a torpid  condition 
of  the  liver;  the  urine  may  contain  bile.  This  ailment  is  very  likely  to  fol- 
low other  diseases  of  the  liver. 

TREATMENT. — If  there  is  a stoppage  of  the  duct  give  twenty  grains 
calomel  daily  for  five  days  and  if  the  bowels  are  blocked  give  six  drams 
Barbadoes  aloes,  of  course  adding  two  drams  ground  ginger  to  the  aloes 
to  prevent  griping.  Giving  granulated  phosphate  soda  in  warm  water  daily, 
or  podophyllin  occasionally,  will  help  these  cases.  During  the  summer 
months  a run  to  grass  is  always  beneficial. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  JAUNDICE  OR  YELLOWS.— 

1.  Glauber’s  Salts. — Give  two  ounces  of  Glauber’s  salts  once  or  twice  a 
day  for  a week. 

CIRRHOSIS. — Cirrhosis  is  really  an  induration  or  hardening  of  the  liver 
and  frequently  follows  inflammation  of  the  liver. 

CAUSES.  It  is  caused  by  feeding  a poor  quality  of  food,  such  as  badly 
cured  fodder,  after  living  on  rich  nutritious  food,  and  in  man  it  is  very  often 
the  result  of  long  and  continued  use  of  alcoholic  stimulants. 

SYMPTOMS.  The  same  symptoms  are  present  as  in  other  liver  dis- 
orders; the  animal  soon  becomes  greatly  emaciated  and  shows  a rough  coat; 
the  dung  srnells  strong  and  the  membranes  are  pale. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  difficult  to  make  a correct  diagnosis.  Give  bak- 
ing soda,  one  or  two  ounces ; Glauber’s  or  epsom  salts ; or,  phosphate  of  soda 
in  6 dram  doses  twice  or  three  times  a day.  Also  give  tonics. 

ASCILES,  ANASARCA  OR  DROPSY. — These  ailments  are  the  results 
of  other  diseases. 

M quite  a quantity  of  effusion  or  water 

in  the  abdomen  and  it  is  usually  the  result  of  diseases  of  the  liver  or  kidneys 
or  chronic  peritonitis. 

SYMPTOMS.— The  coat  is  generally  dry  and  dusty  and  the  horse  is 
hide  bound  and  has  an  unthriTty  appearance.  The  abdomen  is  distended  and 
the  bowels  are  irregular.  The  animal  may  eat  well,  but  even  if  he  does  he 
loses  strength. 

TREATMENT.  Medicine  that  acts  on  the  kidneys  should  be  given 
and  there  is  none  better  than  iodide  of  potassium.  Give  one  or  two  drams 

3 


34 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


two  or  three  times  a day.  Feed  nutritious  food  that  is  easily  digested.  If 
the  swelling  is  not  reduced  it  is  good  practice  to  open  into  the  abdomen  and 
allow  the  water  to  escape.  However,  if  this  becomes  necessary  you  had 
better  have  it  done  by  a veterinarian.  In  mild  cases  give  a tablespoonful  of 
the  following  compound  powder  at  a dose  in  feed,  three  times  a day  until  a 
recovery  takes  place.  Take  equal  parts  by  weight  of  powdered  sulphate 
iron,  ground  gentian  root,  ground  ginger  and  powdered  saltpeter. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  ASCITES  OR  DROPSY  OF  THE 

ABDOMEN.— 

1.  Salts  and  Saltpeter. — Give  either  epsom  or  Glauber’s  salts  and  also 
give  one-half-ounce  doses  of  saltpeter. 

LOCO  DISEASE. — Loco  disease  is  brought  on  by  eating  loco  weeds, 
which  bear  pods,  and  as  these  weeds  seem  to  be  a native  of  the  western 
plains  the  disease  is  common  in  those  parts  but  not  met  with  in  other  parts 
of  this  country.  These  plants  grow  to  be  ten  or  twelve  inches  high  and  are 
of  a gray  color  and  remain  green  throughout  the  winter,  which  accounts  for 
hungry  animals  eating  them  and  getting  into  trouble. 

SYMPTOMS. — If  the  animal  eats  much  of  the  weed  he  soon  begins  to 
lose  flesh  and  he  becomes  emaciated  and  usually  dies  of  starvation.  In  the 
early  stages  the  animal  appears  sluggish  and  moves  slowly,  the  muscles 
tremble  and  he  gets  up  with  great  difficulty.  There  is  considerable  trembling 
of  the  head  and  neck  with  a peculiar  anxious  expression  followed  by  fits  or 
a sort  of  delirium.  The  horse  acts  somewhat  like  a horse  suffering  with 
blind  staggers.  This  fitty  condition  is  most  likely  to  occur  in  hot  weather, 
especially  if  the  horse  is  overheated  by  work.  Cattle  as  well  as  horses  are 
affected,  but  they  resist  the  poisonous  effects  better. 

TREATMENT. — In  talking  with  chemists  they  tell  me  that  the  loco 
weed  is  not  very  poisonous,  but  it  is  almost  wholly  void  of  nutrition  and 
hungry  animals  eating  this  weed,  on  account  of  its  greenness  and  freshness 
during  the  winter  season,  fail  to  get  sufficient  nourishment  to  keep  them 
alive ; consequently,  animals  that  are  inclined  to  eat  loco  weeds  should  be 
kept  away  from  them  and  fed  other  kinds  of  food  and  when  showing  symp- 
toms of  this  ailment  they  should  be  given  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground 
gentian,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
charcoal  at  a dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times  a day.  (See  treatment  for 
“ Indigestion.”) 


RESPIRATORY  APPARATUS  OF  THE  HORSE. 


8. 

Nasal  chamber. 

U. 

Esophagus,  or  gullet. 

14. 

Sternum. 

4. 

Tongue. 

10. 

Section  of  left  bronchus. 

18. 

Ribs. 

5. 

Pharynx. 

11. 

Ramifications  of  right  bron- 

15a. 

Section  of  the 

left 

ribs. 

6. 

Larynx. 

chus. 

10. 

Heart. 

7. 

Epiglottis,  or  potlid. 

12. 

Right  lung. 

17. 

Posterior  aorta 

(cut 

off). 

8. 

Trachea,  or  windpipe. 

13. 

Left  lung,  seen  from  above. 

18. 

Anterior  aorta 

(cut 

off), 

DISEASES  OF  THE  RESPIRATORY  OR 
BREATHING  ORGANS. 


(Including  Diseases  of  the  Lungs,  Bronchial  Tubes,  Throat,  Etc.) 


PNEUMONIA— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  LUNGS.— Pneumonia 
is  an  inflammation  of  the  lung  tissues  and  may  affect  one  or  both  lungs.  _ 

CAUSES. — It  is  caused  by  exposure,  over  exertion  and  parasites  in  the 
lungs  and  is  the  result  of  congestion  following  chills  and  other  diseases  of  the 
higher  air  passages. 

SYMPTOMS. — If  it  does  not  follow  an  acute  congestion  there  may  be 
shivering  followed  with  a hot  skin  and  fever  with  some  cough.  The  horse 
stands  with  the  forelegs  apart,  elbows  turned  out,  nose  poked  out  and  as 
near  an  open  window  as  possible  and  he  breathes  with  a sort  of  moan.  By 
sounding  the  chest  you  hear  a crackling  noise  and  as  the  disease  progresses 
there  is  some  discharge  from  the  nose.  When  suffering  with  pneumonia  the 
horse  generally  stands  up,  while  the  cow  lies  down. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a nice,  airy  box  stall  with  a south  window  which 
is  kept  open.  Apply  mustard  and  water  to  the  sides  once  a day.  The  bowels 
should  be  kept  open  but  not  too  loose.  Give  some  aconite  or  acetanilide  to 
reduce  the  fever;  also,  feed  the  patient  well  and  after  the  fever  subsides  give 
tonics. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PNEUMONIA  OR  LUNG 
FEVER. 

1.  Whiskey. — Every  four  or  five  hours  give  6 ounces  of  good  whiskey 
diluted  with  a pint  of  water.  If  the  horse  will  not  eat  food  and  will  drink 
milk,  give  him  3 or  4 gallons  a day  with  3 or  4 fresh  eggs  stirred  into  each 
gallon. 

2.  Quinine. — Make  1 dram  of  sulphate  of  quinine  into  a ball  with  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  linseed  meal  and  molasses  and  give  one  of  these  balls 
every  three  hours  during  the  height  of  the  fever. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CONGESTION  OF  THE  LUNGS.— 

1.  Whiskey,  Brandy,  Etc. — Every  hour  give  a quarter  of  a pint  of  either 
whiskey  or  brandy  in  a pint  of  water.  Hand  rub  and  bandage  the  legs  to 
draw  the  blood  to  these  parts.  It  is  also  well  to  rub  the  legs  thoroughly 
with  a liniment  composed  of  equal  parts  of  extract  of  witch  hazel,  alcohol, 
spirits  of  camphor  and  water.  Use  two  or  three  times  a day. 

2.  Aromatic  Spirits  of  Ammonia  and  Whiskey. — Give  one  ounce  aro- 
matic spirits  of  ammonia  and  a teacupful  of  whiskey  in  a pint  of  cold  water 
as  a drench  every  two  hours  until  his  legs  become  warm  and  his  body 
comfortable. 

PLEURISY. — Pleurisy  is  an  inflammation  of  the  membrane  which  lines 
the  chest  and  extends  over  the  lungs. 

CAUSES. — Nearly  all  the  common  causes  of  diseases  of  the  air  passages 
may  cause  pleurisy,  and  it  is  sometimes  the  result  of  injury. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  some  fever,  a quick  pulse  and  a crease  extend- 

36 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


3() 

ing  from  the  elbow  to  the  flank.  Pressure  between  the  ribs  causes  pain. 
By  sounding  the  lungs  a sort  of  rasping  noise  is  heard.  The  horse  has  very 
little  if  any  appetite.  There  is  some  coughing,  but  by  tapping  the  chest 
a hollow  sound  is  caused  and  there  should  be  no  rasping  noise  heard  when  the 
ear  is  placed  to  the  breast. 

TREATMENT. — The  bowels  should  be  opened  b}^  giving  epsom  salts 
or  raw  linseed  oil  and  it  is  also  important  to  apply  hot  applications  to  the 
sides.  Mustard  and  water  or  home  liniments  applied  twice  daily  give  relief. 
Water  may  accumulate  in  the  chest;  if  so,  give  digitalis  or  iodide  of  potas- 
sium, or  it  may  be  necessary  to  tap  the  chest. 

BRONCHITIS. — Bronchitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  mucous  membrane 
lining  the  bronchial  tubes.  These  tubes  are  formed  by  the  branching  of 
the  lower  end  of  the  windpipe  and  they  themselves  branch  in  the  lungs. 

CAUSES. — It  is  often  the  result  of  an  inflammation  of  the  upper  air  pas-- 
sages  when  a recovery  did  not  take  place,  or  it  may  be  the  result  of  colds  oi 
exposure. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  breathes  with  a sort  of  grunt,  refuses  food, 
has  a cough  and  if  you  listen  at  the  breast  a roaring  sound  is  heard.  The 
pulse  quickens  somewhat  and  the  temperature  rises. 

TREATMENT. — Allow  fresh  air  but  keep  the  body  warmly  covered 
and  free  from  draft.  Place  the  horse  in  a comfortable  stable.  The  breast 
should  be  rubbed  twice  a day  with  mustard  and  water  or  with  some 
good  home  liniment.  Give  one  dram  fluid  extract  belladonna,  one-half  ounce 
tincture  of  opium  and  one  ounce  alcohol  in  a pint  of  cold  water  at  a dose 
three  or  four  times  a day.  Steam  with  creosote  or  carbolic  acid  twice  a day 
and  keep  the  bowels  open. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BRONCHITIS.— 

1.  Steaming  with  Carbolic  Acid. — Put  a tablespoonful  of  carbolic  acid 
into  a bucket  of  hot  water  and  have  the  horse  inhale  the  vapor.  In  bad 
cases  this  treatment  should  be  repeated  every  hour.  Stirring  the  water 
will  cause  it  to  give  off  more  steam. 

HEAVES — BROKEN  WIND. — Heaves  in  horses  is  closely  allied  to  the 
disease  asthma  in  man  but  the  symptoms  seem  to  be  much  more  continuous. 

CAUSES. — Feeding  on  clover  or  musty,  badly-cured  fodder  of  any  kind 
is  likely  to  bring  on  heaves ; besides,  feeding  too  much  bulky  non-nutritious 
fodder  and  over  exerting  the  animal  when  the  stomach  is  very  full  are  com- 
mon causes  of  broken  wind.  Diseases  of  the  lungs  sometimes  terminate  in 
heaves.  This  disease  sometimes  attacks  two-year-old  colts ; however,  it  is 
principally  a disease  of  middle-aged  or  old  horses.  A horse  with  a small 
chest  and  of  delicate  constitution  is  most  liable  to  heaves  and  it  is  this  kind 
that  seems  to  come  honestly  by  heaves. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  nostrils  usually  stand  open,  the  horse  has  a short, 
dry  cough  and  a wheezing  noise  is  heard  in  the  throat.  There  is  a sort  of 
double  lift  to  the  flanks  every  time  the  animal  breathes.  Nearly  every 
broken-winded  horse  has  more  or  less  indigestion,  is  inclined  to  eat  far  too 
much,  bloats  and  passes  gas  and,  strange  to  say,  is  fond  of  filthy  fodder. 
The  muscles  of  the  body  are  generally  soft  and  flabby  and  if  put  to  very 
hard  work  it  loses  flesh.  This  is  perhaps  the  result  of  both  stomach  and 
lung  trouble.  The  symptoms  I have  mentioned  can  be  greatly  modified  by 
limiting  the  amount  of  bulky  food  and  water;  also  by  giving  drugs  which 
have  a sedative  effect. 


horse— DISEASES  OF  TPfE  RESPIRATORY  ORGANS.  37 

TREATMENT. — If  it  is  possible  to  ascertain  what  has  caused  the  heaves 
and  remove  that  cause  the  ailment  can  soon  be  somewhat  relieved,  but  it 
is  well  to  limit  the  amount  of  bulky  fodder  and  it  should  be  of  ^ood  quality 
and  all  the  better  if  it  is  wet  with  lime  water.  This  is  made  by  droppinis; 
a pound  or  two  of  lime  into  a bucket  of  water,  pouring  off  the  first  water, 
then  refilling  and  continuing  to  refill  until  the  lime  is  all  dissolved.  Water 
will  take  up  only  so  much  lime  and  no  more  so  there  is^no  danger  of  making 
it  too  strong.  Keep  the  bowels  open,  give  opium,  belladonna,  digitalis, 
lobelia,  arsenic,  stramonium  and  tar  water.  If  there  is  much  discharge,  give 
one  dram  sulphate  of  copper  at  a dose  twice  daily.  Water  before  feeding 
grain. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  HEAVES  OR  BROKEN  WIND.— 

1.  Proper  Feeding. — Feed  corn  stalks,  moist  hay,  carrots,  beets,  pota- 
toes, etc.  The  hay  should  be  moistened  so  as  to  prevent  irritation.  For 
two  or  three  weeks  give  arsenic  in  three-grain  doses  twice  a day.  Also 
keeg^the  bowels  open  with  laxatives. 

2.  Phosphorus. — For  eight  or  ten  days  give  8 or  10  drops  of  tincture 
of  phosphorus  in  the  drinking  water  several  times  a day. 

3.  Ear  Corn. — Feed  nothing  but  ear  corn  for  six  or  seven  months.  One 
man  says  he  has  seen  useless  horses  entirely  cured  in  this  way. 

ROARING. — This,  properly  speaking,  is  not  a disease  but  a symptom. 
It  is  breathing  with  a loud  and  unnatural  sound,  due  to  paralysis  of  the  vocal 
cords  and  a sweetened  condition  of  the  dilator  muscles  of  the  larynx. 

CAUSES. — There  are  many  different  causes  that  may  produce  roaring. 
Malformation  of  the  air  passages,  nasal  polypus  or  a closing  of  one  nostril, 
will  produce  the  sound,  but  in  a genuine  case  of  roaring  the  vocal  cords 
and  muscles  are  usually  paralyzed  or  atrophied.  Any  irritation  of  the  larynx 
that  lasts  very  long  may  cause  degeneration  of  the  muscular  fibres  and  pro- 
duce roaring.  Strangles  (distemper)  may  terminate  in  roaring.  Tight  rein- 
ing is  another  cause. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are  shown  in  most  cases  when  the  animal 
is  exerted  much.  In  mild  cases  he  may  not  make  much  noise  but  may  whistle 
slightly,  which  indicates  a thickened  condition  of  the  mucous  membrane  of 
the  lar}mx.  A whistle  of  this  kind  has  a right  to  cause  suspicion  for  few 
sound  horses  make  this  noise. 

TREATMENT. — Feed  a good  quality  of  food  and  no  clover  or  mustv, 
badly-cured  fodder  of  any  kind.  Apply  home  liniments  or  mustard  and  water 
to  the  throat  daily,  or  apply  some  iodine  ointment.  Give  one-dram  doses 
iodide  potassium  twice  a day  for  two  or  three  weeks.  When  the  vocal  cord 
muscles  are  paralyzed  and  much  atrophied  mild  remedies  do  but  little  good. 
The  operation  of  tracheotomy  is  helpful  to  many  or  a surgical  operation  on 
the  throat  and  removing  the  vocal  cords  frequentlv  proves  successful. 

HICCOUGHS  OR  THUMPS— SPASM  OF  THE  DIAPHRAGM- 
PALPITATION. — ^^Palpitation  is  a sudden,  violent  and  convulsive  beating  of 
the  heart.  Palpitation  should  not  be  confounded  with  hiccoughs  or  thumps 
for  they  are  the  result  of  a spasm  of  the  diaphragm  and  not  an  affection  of 
the  heart.  The  causes  are  very  similar  to  those  that  bring  on  congestion  of 
the  lungs  and  sometimes  colic.  Place  the  ear  back  of  the  heart  and  you  will 
soon  determine  that  it  is  not  a heart  beat,  but  a jerking  sort  of  noise  back  of 
the  heart;  besides,  the  heart  sound  is  usually  more  feeble.  If  the  spasm  is 
not  relieved  death  may  be  the  result. 


88 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


TREATMENT. — Apply  mustard  and  water  directly  over  the  seat  of 
the  noise  or  apply  a light  blanket  wrung  out  of  hot  water  to  the  chest  and 
side,  covering  it  with  dry  blankets  and  a rubber  cover.  Give  one  ounce 
sweet  spirits  of  nitre,  two  drams  fluid  extract  opium,  tv/enty-five  drops  ex- 
tract of  digitalis  and  one-half  dram  fluid  extract  nux  vomica  in  a pint  of  cold 
water  every  two  or  three  hours  until  relief  is  obtained.  If  you  have  none 
of  this  medicine  on  hand  give  one-half  pint  of  whiskey  and  a tablespoonful 
of  ginger  in  a pint  of  cold  water  and  repeat  it  every  three  hours.  Avoid 
giving  the  animal  large  quantities  of  ice-cold  water  at  a time  but  give  ginger 
in  the  feed.  He  should  be  fed  a moderate  quantity  of  well-cured  fodder  and 
grain  and  exercised  moderately  for  a week  or  two  until  he  recovers.  Also, 
avoid  over  exerting  him. 

LARYNGITIS — SORE  THROAT. — The  larynx  is  situated  near  the 
root  of  the  tongue  and  upper  portion  of  the  windpipe  and  lies  between  the 
lower  jawbones.  Usually,  when  there  is  sore  throat  the  larynx  and  its  lining 
mucous  membrane  become  inflamed.  The  pharynx,  situated  at  the  upper 
end  of  the  gullet,  is  usually  more  or  less  inflamed  also. 

CAUSES. — Exposure  to  cold  winds  when  in  a heated  condition  or  in- 
haling foul  air,  dust  or  poisonous  gases  are  the  causes. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  more  or  less  difficulty  in  swallowing 
and  when  drinking  water  a portion  will  often  be  returned  through  the  nose. 
There  is  an  increased  flow  of  saliva,  sometimes  external  swelling  of  the  throat, 
an  extension  of  the  nose,  a reddened  appearance  of  the  lining  membrane 
of  the  nostrils,  some  rise  of  temperature,  generally  a cough,  and  usually  the 
animal  refuses  to  eat  dry  feed. 

TREATMENT. — The  animal  should  be  placed  in  a comfortable,  clean, 
dry  and  well-ventilated  stable  and  if  convenient  allowed  to  inhale  twice  a 
day  some  medicated  steam ; however,  this  is  not  always  necessary.  The 
animal  should  be  supplied  with  plenty  of  cold  drinking  water  and  fed  bran 
mash,  ground  grain  and  vegetables  made  moist  with  warm  water.  Dissolve 
one  ounce  chlorate  of  potash  in  one  pint  of  water  and  inject  some  into  the 
mouth  four  or  five  times  a day.  It  is  not  good  practice  to  drench  a horse 
that  has  sore  throat  for  fear  that  a portion  of  the  drench  will  go  down  the 
windpipe  and  bring  on  bronchial  pneumonia.  Apply  one  part  kerosene 
(coal  oil)  and  five  parts  sweet  oil  or  raw  linseed  oil  or  lard  to  the  throat 
once  or  twice  a day;  or,  apply  any  good  home  liniment,  such  as  equal  parts 
aqua  ammonia,  turpentine  and  sweet  oil.  Hot  poultices  or  mustard  and 
water  or  antiphlogistine  or  any  vegetable  poultice  will  have  a tendency  to 
relieve  the  throat.  If  an  abscess  forms  it  should  be  opened  and  treated  as 
I have  directed  for  abscesses. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PHARYNGITIS  OR  SORE 
THROAT.— 

1.  Alum  Water. — Three  or  four  times  a day  give  a half-ounce  dose  of 
alum  water  which  is  made  by  dissolving  an  ounce  of  powdered  alum  in  a 
quart  of  water. 

2.  Borax  Water. — Give  one  ounce  of  borax  water  three  or  four  times 
a day.  An  effective  remedy.  This  is  made  by  dissolving  one  ounce  of 
borax  in  a quart  of  water. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PARALYSIS  OF  THE  PHARYNX 
OR  THROAT.— 

1.  Blistering,  Etc. — Apply  very  mild  blisters  under  and  behind  the 


horse— DISEASES  OF  THE  RESPIRATORY  ORGANS. 


39 


Jeav  and  frequently  wash  the  mouth  with  alum  water,  using  an  ounce  of 
alum  to  a pint  of  water.  Also  give  one-grain  doses  of  strychnia  three  times 
a day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  ABSCESS  IN  THE  THROAT.— 

1.  Steaming  with  Hops. — The  ripening  and  discharge  of  the  abscess  may 
be  hastened  by  steaming  with  hops ; or,  if  no  hops  are  at  hand,  hay  may 
be  used  instead. 

MALIGNANT  SORE  THROAT.— (See  ‘‘  Cattle  Department.”) 

TRACHEOTOMY. — (Inserting  tube  in  windpipe.) — Tracheotomy  con- 
sists in  making  on  opening  into  the  trachea  or  windpipe  to  prevent  death  from 
suffocation  in  acute  cases  of  throat  trouble  or  choking.  It  is  also  resorted 
to  with  considerable  success  in  roarers  where  there  is  a paralysis  of  the  vocal 
cords  or  a changed  condition  of  the  throat,  interfering  and  making  it  difficult 
for  a horse  to  breathe  freely.  It  is  a very  simple  thing  to  perform  this 
operation ; just  open  the  skin  about  two  inches  long,  some  eight  or  ten  inches 
from  the  throat,  and  if  the  tube  is  going  to  be  left  in  but  a short  time  open 
one  of  the  rings  of  the  windpipe  or  cut  out  a circular  piece,  making  a hole 
large  enough  for  the  tube.  This  tube  should  be  clean  when  it  is  inserted ; 
also,  it  should  be  taken  out  and  cleaned  daily.  This  is  best  done  by  boiling 
the  tube  for  ten  minutes  or  dipping  it  into  a two  per  cent,  solution  of  carbolic 
acid  and  water.  I have  often  found  it  necessary  to  perform  this  operation 
in  severe  cases  of  distemper  and  sore  throat.  The  operation  appears  to  be 
difficult;  however,  it  is  far  from  it.  If  you  are  unable  to  secure  the  serv- 
ices of  a veterinarian  and  you  have  a tube,  do  not  hesitate  to  put  it  into  the 
horse  yourself  for  you  may  thus  save  the  life  of  a valuable  animal. 

CATARRH. — Catarrh  is  a congestion,  inflammation  or  irritation  of  any 
mucous  membrane  of  the  body.  When  the  membranes  of  the  head  are 
affected  it  is  called  “ nasal  catarrh  ” and  I shall  now  give  causes,  symptoms 
and  treatment  for  this  ailment. 

CAUSES. — The  most  common  causes  are  exposure  of  thin,  weak  animals 
to  storms  and  cold  winds  and  standing  in  drafts  when  in  a heated  condition 
and  also  inhaling  dust,  smoke  and  poisonous  gases. 

SYMPTOMS. — At  first  when  the  animal  has  just  taken  cold  the  mucous 
membrane  is  dry  and  parched-like ; some  hours  later  a watery  discharge 
takes  place,  followed  some  days  later  by  a thick,  pus-like  mucus.  In  many 
cases  there  is  some  loss  of  appetite  and  slight  fever  followed  by  more  or  less 
weakness. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  important  to  give  the  animal  good  care  and  pre- 
vent his  catching  any  more  cold.  He  should  be  kept  in  a clean,  well-ven- 
tilated stable  and  fed  well-salted  bran  mashes  and  vegetables  or  any  other  feed 
that  he  craves,  for  if  he  has  much  fever  he  will  refuse  grain.  I have  seen 
many  cases  greatly  benefited  by  steaming  the  head.  For  this  purpose  add 
some  creosote  or  carbolic  acid  to  boiling  water,  a teaspoonful  or  two  to  a 
bucket  of  water.  A teakettle  is  very  convenient  for  this  work.  Sometimes 
buildings  are  fired  through  carelessness  in  steaming.  Use  an  alcohol  or  kero- 
sene stove  or  lamp  to  heat  the  water  and  be  careful.  Give  a tablespoonful 
of  the  following  compound  powder  at  a dose  in  feed  or  with  a spoon 
three  times  a day.  Of  sulphate  iron,  ground  gentian,  ginger  and  nitrate  potash, 
take  equal  parts  by  weight.  If  the  bowels  are  costive  give  eight  ounces 
raw  linseed  oil  daily  until  they  open.  If  the  horse  coughs  much  give  a 


40 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


tablespoonful  of  laudanum  and  a teaspoonful  of  chloroform  in  three  ounces 
of  sweet  oil  three  times  a day  until  the  cough  is  relieved. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CATARRH  IN  THE  HEAD  OR 
HEAVES.— 

1.  Western  Hay. — Feed  western  prairie  hay  with  which  the  resin  plant 
is  mixed. 

2.  Steaming. — Have  the  horse  inhale  steam  from  a bucket  of  hot  water. 
The  steam  should  be  inhaled  five  times  a day  and  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes  each  time. 

NASAL  GLEET. — Nasal  gleet  is  a chronic  catarrh  of  the  nose  and  upper 
air  passages  and  is  usually  the  result  of  neglected  cases  of  cold  in  the  head 
or  simple  catarrhal  fever. 

CAUSES. — Nearly  all  cases  of  nasal  gleet  are  the  result  of  fractures, 
diseased  roots  of  grinder  teeth,  diseased  bones,  or  neglected  catarrh. 

SYMPTOMS. — This  ailment  is  attended  by  a nasty  discharge  from  one 
or  both  nostrils  and  is  often  mistaken  for  glanders.  When  the  breath  is 
offensive  it  indicates  a diseased  tooth  or  bone.  This  is  not  a contagious 
disease. 

TREATMENT. — The  most  important  step  to  be  taken  in  the  treatment 
of  nasal  gleet  is  to  ascertain  the  cause,  if  it  is  possible  to  do  so,  and  remove 
it.  When  the  discharge  comes  from  a diseased  tooth,  pulling  it  out  is  the 
remedy.  If  a bone  is  diseased,  scrape  off  the  diseased  part  and  it  will  heal. 
Dissolve  six  drams  boric  acid  in  a quart  of  water  and  wash  out  nose  twice 
a day.  Give  % ounce  sulphate  iron  and  two  drams  nitrate  potash  in  feed 
twice  a day  for  twenty  days;  and,  if  not  then  well,  give  five  one-dram  doses 
sulphate  of  copper  in  feed  three  times  a day.  I have  often  found  it  neces- 
sary to  cut  (trephine)  through  the  bone  of  the  face  in  order  to  wash  out  the 
nose  and  head  thoroughly.  This  is  the  only  way  to  bring  about  a recovery 
in  bad  cases. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CHRONIC  NASAL  CATARRH 
OR  NASAL  GLEET.— 

1.  Sulphur. — Burn  sulphur  in  the  stable  so  that  the  horse  will  inhale 
the  fumes  but  be  careful  not  to  suffocate  the  animal. 

2.  Lime. — It  is  well  to  sprinkle  chloride  of  lime  about  the  stable  and 
to  put  some  under  the  hay  in  the  manger  so  that  the  horse  will  inhale  the 
fumes  while  eating. 

3.  Copperas. — Give  a teaspoonful  powdered  copperas  at  a dose  in  feed 
two  or  three  times  a day. 

MALIGNANT  CATARRH,— (See  ‘‘  Cattle  Department.”) 

CHRONIC  COUGH. — Chronic  cough  very  often  exists  without  any 
apparent  or  known  cause.  It  may  also  follow  sore  throat  and  may  be  as- 
sociated with  chest  diseases,  indigestion,  stomach  worms,  bots,  derangement 
of  the  pneumogastric  nerve,  etc. 

CAUSES. — It  very  often  follows  distemper,  influenza,  sore  throat,  pneu- 
monia, enlarged  glands  of  the  throat  and  the  feeding  of  badly-cured  clover, 
musty  fodder  and  bulky  non-nutritious  food  that  deranges  the  stomach  and 
digestive  organs. 

SYMPTOMS. — Coughing  much  without  any  discharge  whatever  from 
the  nose  or  without  any  apparent  cause  is  sufficient  evidence  that  it  is  a 
chronic  ailment.  Furthermore,  if  it  has  lasted  long  it  must  necessarily  be 


horse— DISEASES  OF  THE  RESPIRATORY  ORGANS. 


41 


chronic.  By  applying  slight  pressure  to  the  throat  the  animal  will  usually 
hack  and  cough  several  times. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  every  good  cough 
remedy  used  and  prescribed  in  human  practice  is  equally  as  effectual  in  veter- 
inary practice.  However,  the  dose  should  be  from  six  to  twelve  times  as 
much.  Fairly  good  results  follow  giving  1/2  dram  gum  camphor,  % dram  pow- 
dered digitalis  and  % dram  powdered  opium,  at  a dose,  either  in  feed  or  with 
a spoon  two  or  three  times  a day.  Or,  give  two  drams  muriate  ammonia, 
dram  powdered  lobelia  and  two  drams  of  powdered  saltpeter  at  a dose  in 
feed  or  with  a spoon.  Or,  dissolve  % dram  iodide  potassium  in  V2  pint  of 
water  and  pour  over  feed  twice  a day.  The  same  external  applications  that 
I have  recommended  for  sore  throat  should  be  used  occasionally  in  the  treat- 
ment of  chronic  cough. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  COUGHS,  HEAVES  AND  ALL 
THROAT  AND  LUNG  TROUBLES.— 

1.  Coughs,  Heaves,  Etc. — Give  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  licorice, 
a tablespoonful  ground  ginger,  a teaspoonful  powdered  digitalis  leaves,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  powdered  lobelia  and  one-third  of  a teaspoonful  of  powdered 
opium  at  a dose  in  damp  feed  night  and  morning.  Also  wet  his  fodder 
with  lime  water,  which  is  made  by  adding  a pound  of  lime  to  a bucket  of 
water.  Pour  off  the  first  water  which  is  a little  bitter,  then  refill  and  use. 

PNEUMOTHORAX— AIR  OR  GAS  IN  THE  CHEST.— This  is  gen- 
erally due  to  a changed  condition  of  the  liquid,  having  undergone  some  sort 
of  decomposition  in  the  chest.  It  is  also  the  result  of  chest  punctures  or 
broken  ribs. 

TREATMENT. — Whenever  fluid,  air,  or  gas  can  be  drawn  from  the  chest 
this  should  be  done.  I have  obtained  good  results  by  injecting  one  part 
carbolic  acid  and  two  hundred  and  fifty  parts  water  into  the  chest  after  the 
operation  of  tapping. 

HYDROTHORAX— WATER  IN  THE  CHEST— DROPSY  OF  THE 
LUNGS. — Hydrothorax  is  not  a disease  but  a result  of  other  ailments  such 
as  pleurisy,  pleuro-pneumonia,  heart  trouble  or  debilitating  diseases. 

SYMPTOMS. — Whenever  water  commences  to  accumulate  in  the  chest, 
the  animal  very  often  seems  to  revive  and  appear  better;  however,  the  good 
symptoms  are  not  always  lasting  for  the  water  must  soon  be  absorbed  or  the 
case  ends  in  death.  Listen  and  you  can  hear  a splash  in  the  chest  and  if 
there  is  much  water  it  must  be  let  out  or  death  soon  follows.  Even  tapping 
very  often  gives  only  temporary  relief.  Give  the  animal  two  drams  of  fluid 
extract  of  digitalis  and  two  drams  of  iodide  potassium  two  or  three  times  daily. 

NASAL  POLYPUS. — A nasal  polypus  is  a small  tumor  in  the  nostril, 
very  much  the  shape  of  a pear  or  top  and  it  very  often  interferes  with 
breathing. 

CAUSES. — It  is  not  always  easy  to  tell  what  causes  them;  however, 
they  are  often  the  result  of  wounds  or  some  foreign  substance  lodging  in 
the  nostril  and  setting  up  irritation  which  is  followed  by  these  growths. 

SYMPTOMS. — Very  often  the  first  symptom  is  a slight  discharge  from 
the  nostril  and  this  discharge  is  frequently  mixed  with  blood.  The  horse 
breathes  with  some  difficulty,  making  a snuffling  sort  of  sound. 

TREATMENT. — These  tumor-like  bodies  should  be  removed  and  this 


42 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


is  best  done  with  a pair  of  forceps  or  pincers.  When  removed  they  are  likely 
to  bleed  freely.  This  hemorrhage  is  best  stopped  by  applying  one  part  tinc- 
ture of  iron  and  twelve  parts  water;  or,  dissolve  two  ounces  of  alum  in  a 

pint  of  water  and  apply  by  saturating  a sponge  or  cotton  and  holding  it 

on  the  wound.  Either  hot  or  cold  water  will  have  the  same  effect.  It  is 

well  to  keep  in  mind  that  a nasal  polypus  should  be  removed  as  soon  as  it 

is  noticed,  for  the  operation  is  much  more  easily  performed  when  it  is  small 
and  there  is  much  less  danger  from  hemorrhage. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  URINARY  ORGANS. 

(Including  Diseases  of  the  Kidneys  and  Bladder.) 


KIDNEY  AILMENTS. — Diseases  of  the  urinary  organs  of  horses  are 
not  nearly  so  common  as  in  man.  However,  we  do  find  them  prevailing  in 
certain  localities  where  limestone  is  abundant  and  where  resinous  plants  grow ; 
we  also  find  kidney  troubles  caused  by  horses  pasturing  on  damp  low  lands 
and  by  eating  a poor  quality  of  fodder.  We  also  find  kidney  ailments  coming 
on  for  want  of  enough  water.  It  is  often  brought  on  from  giving  drugs  which 
act  harshly  on  the  kidneys,  or  from  giving  diuretic  medicine  for  too  long  a 
time.  It  may  result  from  liver  disease.  Far  too  many  horse  owners  have 
wrong  beliefs  regarding  kidney  diseases  of  the  horse  for  they  are  not  nearly 
so  common  as  supposed. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  general  symptoms  of  kidney  disease,  if  it  is  acute,  are 
a straddling  gait  with  the  hind  legs,  tender  loins  and  a straining  to  pass 
urine.  The  urine  is  either  passed  with  difficulty  or  it  dribbles  away.  In  horses 
and  cattle  the  urinary  organs  can  very  often  be  examined  by  introducing  the 
hand  into  either  the  bowel  or  vagina.  A certain  class  of  urinary  ailments  can 
be  diagnosed  only  by  making  an  examination  of  the  urine.  ' 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  RETENTION  OF  URINE.— 

1.  Turpentine. — Mix  one  part  of  turpentine  with  five  or  six  times  the 
quantity  of  sweet  oil  and  apply  to  the  small  of  the  back  once  a day.  This 
remedy  can  be  depended  upon  in  every  case. 

2.  Nitre. — Give  one  ounce  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  every  hour  until  re- 
lieved and  rub  the  back  with  spirits  of  camphor. 

3.  Nitre  and  Spanish  Fly. — In  severe  cases  of  retention  of  urine  give  IV2 
ounces  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  mixed  with  five  or  ten  grains  of  Spanish  Fly. 
Repeat  every  hour  until  relief  is  obtained.  It  is  also  well  to  rub  the  back 
with  a mixture  of  ginger  and  mustard. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BLADDER— CYSTITIS.— (See  “ Cattle 
Department.”) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Borax,  Etc. — The  bladder  should  be  washed  out  twice  a day  with  a 
solution  of  a dram  of  borax  to  a quart  of  water.  Give  linseed  tea  or  slippery 
elm  tea  in  the  drinking  water.  Apply  mustard  over  the  loins  and  to  the  back 
part  of  the  abdomen.  The  diet  should  be  light,  such  as  roots,  bran  mashes, 
grass,  etc. 

NEPHRITIS— ACUTE  INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  KIDNEYS— 
ALSO  CHRONIC  INFLAMMATION  OF  KIDNEYS.— Inflammation  of  the 
kidneys  is  not  a very  common  ailment  in  horses  and  it  is  not  by  any  means 
the  most  common  disease  of  the  kidneys.  It  is  most  likely  to  occur  in  the 
chronic  form  and  we  often  find  only  one  kidney  involved. 

CAUSES. — Exposure  to  cold  wet  rains,  sleet,  and  cold  wind  storms, 
especially  after  an  exhaustive  drive,  causes  the  animal  to  chill  suddenly  after 
being  over-heated.  It  also  follows  giving  large  and  repeated  doses  of  salt- 
peter, resin  and  other  drugs  that  act  on  the  kidneys.  It  sometimes  follows 


44 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


the  a])plication  of  fly  blisters  to  the  loins  on  account  of  an  absorption  of  can- 
tharides. 

SYMPTOMS. — Very  often  azoturia  is  confounded  with  nephritis.  The 
animal  has  more  or  less  fever,  the  heart  action  is  quicker,  the  animal  exhibits 
some  pain,  very  often  turning  the  nose  to  the  seat  of  this  pain  and  very  often 
])ointing  his  nose  to  his  kidneys.  Uremic  poisoning  may  set  in  and  if  so  the 
animal  acts  as  if  intoxicated.  Pressure  applied  to  the  loins  is  not  a reliable 
test.  Passing  the  hand  into  the  rectum  and  finding  undue  heat  in  the  loins 
leads  one  to  suspect  nephritis.  In  well  marked  cases  casts  of  the  kidney 
tubes  may  be  discovered  in  the  urine. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all  lessen  the  work  on  the  kidneys  by  stimu- 
lating the  bowels  and  skin  glands  into  greater  activity.  Give  fifteen  drops  of 
tincture  of  aconite  at  a dose  four  or  five  times  a day.  Apply  mustard  and 
water  to  the  loins  or  apply  Avarm  antiphlogistine.  If  the  animal  suffers  much 
pain  give  one-ounce  doses  of  laudanum  every  two  or  three  hours,  also  give 
one  ounce  of  hypo-sulphite  soda  three  times  a day  for  four  or  five  days.  Feed 
a good  qualitv  of  food  but  not  too  much  of  it. 

DIABETES  INSIPIDUS— DIURESIS— PROFUSE  STALLING.— 

Excessive  secretion  of  urine  is  an  indication  that  the  animal  suffers  from 
diuresis. 

CAUSES. — The  reckless  use  of  drugs  and  dosing  of  horses  with  quack 
nostrums  will  bring  on  this  ailment;  however,  feeding  musty  and  badly  cured 
fodder  or  grain,  or  bran  that  has  soured  and  heated  is  a very  common  cause. 
New  oats,  distillery  refuse  and  plants  which  act  severely  on  the  kidneys  bring 
it  on.  I have  seen  a whole  flock  of  sheep  and  all  the  horses  in  a large  stable 
suffer  from  eating  badly  cured  fodder  or  from  eating  acrid  plants.  Exposure 
to  wet  and  cold,  also  feeding  too  much  salt  and  thus  irritating  the  stomach  and 
increasing  the  thirst  will  sometimes  bring  on  this  disease. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a frequent  passing  of  a large  quantity  of  pale 
urine  which  is  of  very  low  specific  gravity ; there  is  a falling  off  in  condition 
and  the  horse  grows  weak  and  perspires  when  not  exerted  very  much.  The 
urine  has  no  odor  and  contains  very  little  solid  mater  but  a great  deal  of  it 
may  be  passed  in  a day.  The  skin  usually  becomes  dry  and  harsh,  he  appears 
hide-bound  and  has  the  appearance  of  ill  health  but  may  live  for  months. 

TREATMENT. — In  the  early  stages  a recovery  soon  follows  a removal 
of  the  cause  and  a change  of  food.  Feed  well  cured  fodder,  keep  the  bowels 
open,  feed  no  new  hay.  Give  two  drams  iodide  of  potassium  daily,  also  give 
two  drams  of  phosphate  of  iron,  two  drams  gentian  and  two  drams  powdered 
cinchona  at  a dose  in  feed  twice  a day.  Give  plenty  of  hearty  food  and  a 
recovery  will  take  place  much  more  quickly.  In  some  cases  I have  given 
creosote  with  good  results ; however,  this  is  not  always  necessary.  If  occur- 
ring in  the  winter,  be  sure  to  ventilate  your  stable,  let  in  fresh  air  day  and 
night  and  keep  the  stable  clean  and  free  from  foul  gas. 

BLOODY  URINE — HEMATURIA. — Hsematuria,  or  blood  in  the  urine, 
is  quite  common  in  cattle  and  sheep,  but  not  in  horses.^ 

CAUSES. — It  is  generally  the  result  of  a sprain  or  injury  but  is  sometimes 
due  to  calculi  or  stone  in  the  bladder  or  kidneys  or  to  fracture  of  the  back- 
bone. 

SYMPTOMS. — If  the  blood  comes  away  with  the  urine  and  pretty  well 
mixed  it  is  generally  kidney  hemorrhage,  but  if  there  are  clots  it  must  be  com- 
ing from  other  parts. 


'■‘-  Vv-,  ^ ~ ' "■  ^ »-  ' r - • - ‘.  '■■■  - V 9'  ‘ 'wi'  3M 

■■  V^'  V-:''  V^'?i 


”]'■ 

C-  .7  ■ ' 


■ > •■  - ' »»  jr 


: w*tefi^' '?■  ■ ^:;  7f«*!  If 


■|pSff#s^ 


PNEUMONIA  OR  LUNG  FEVER. 

A horse  with  pneumonia  always  stands  up  while  a cow  with  pneumonia  always 
lies  down.  This  six-year-old  mare  is  recovering  from  a bad  attack  of  pleura-pneumonia. 
She  lost  200  lbs.  in  weight  in  10  days.  Note  the  anxious  eye  and  haggard  appearance. 
Forelegs  are  held  far  apart. 

(Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hospital  especially  for  this  book.) 


AZOTURTA. 

This  1800-lb.  draft  mare  took  Azoturia,  became  paralyzed,  laid  in  a Cleveland 
street  for  four  hours,  was  hauled  in  an  ambulance  to  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  llospit.'d, 
remained  down  for  three  days  and  when  photographed  was  recovering  but  still 
weak  in  left  hind  leg  and  swollen  on  rump.  Also  a large  sit  fast  (librous  tumor)  vyas 
removed  from  the  shoulder  while  at  the  hospital.  Azoturia  is  caused  by  over-feeding 
and  under-exercising. 

(Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hospital  especially  for  this  book.) 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  THE  URINARY  ORGANS. 


45 


TREATMENT. — It  is  important  to  remove  the  cause.  Also  change  the 
feed  and  give  a tablespoonful  of  tincture  of  chloride  of  iron  in  a pint  of  water 
two  or  tliree  times  a day,  or  give  a teaspoonful  fluid  extract  ergot  two  or  three 
times  a day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Slippery  Elm  Tea  and  Lithia. — Give  freely  of  slippery  elm  tea  and 
then  give  one-half  ounce  of  lithia.  If  the  discharge  is  excessive  apply  cold 
water  to  the  loins. 

AZOTURIA— PARTIAL  PARALYSIS  OF  HIND  QUARTERS.— Azo- 
turia  belongs  to  the  class  of  dietetic  diseases,  usually  resulting  from  too  gener- 
ous feeding  of  concentrated  food  without  giving  the  horse  sufficient  fresh  air 
and  exercise.  It  may  be  defined  as  a hyper-nitrogenous  condition  of  the  blood 
and  whole  system.  This  excessive  loading  of  the  blood  with  nitrogen  seems 
only  to  take  place  when  the  animal  is  stabled,  kept  quiet  and  over-nourished 
on  grain.  When  the  blood  is  charged  with  an  excess  of  nitrogen  and  carried 
through  the  system  it  seems  to  be  inclined  to  settle  in  the  myolemma  or  cover- 
ings of  the  deep  muscles  of  the  haunch.  This  seems  to  cause  a partial  or 
complete  loss  of  motor  power  in  the  hind  quarters.  This  disease  is  known  by 
many  different  names  such  as  azoturia,  paralysis,  kidney  disease,  spinal  dis- 
ease, hysteria,  enzootic  hasmaturia  and  hsemaglobinuria.  However,  it  is  most 
commonly  known  by  the  name  of  “ azoturia.” 

CAUSES. — It  can  be  safely  stated  that  this  disease  is  caused  b}^  too  much 
albumen  and  this  albumen  is  produced  by  over-feeding  on  grain  when  the 
horse  is  idle  and  not  exercised,  and  by  the  kidneys  acting  in  an  improper 
manner.  The  system  seems  to  load  with  urea  and  hippuric  acid  which  are 
secreted  by  the  liver,  and  the  nervous  system,  no  doubt,  becomes  aff'ected  by 
the  urea.  Now  when  the  horse  is  exercised  and  the  blood  circulates  rapidly, 
it  being  highly  charged  with  albumen,  it  undergoes  rapid  oxidation,  exerting 
a peculiar  affect  on  the  muscles  of  the  back  and  hind  quarters  and  causing 
either  partial  or  complete  loss  of  motion.  It  is  supposed  to  be  a disease  of 
the  kidneys  or  spinal  cord  but  this  is  not  correct  for  it  is  more  pearly  a disease 
of  the  liver;  the  liver  fails  to  transform  albuminoids  into  urea  and  fills  up  the 
gland  and  the  circulating  fluid  with  partially  oxidized  products  which  pass  off 
later  by  the  kidneys.  Quick  or  violent  exercise  is  far  more  likely  to  bring  on 
an  attack  than  moderate  or  slow  exercise.  The  urea  no  doubt  acts  upon  the 
nerves,  bringing  on  a spasm  of  the  muscles  of  the  hind  quarters.  When  the 
stomach  and  bowels  are  very  full  and  the  horse  put  to  fast  or  hard  work  this 
disease  soon  develops,  especially  if  his  kidneys  are  not  active  and  the  bowels 
are  costive.  Azoturia  may  occur  at  any  season  of  the  year;  however,  it  is 
much  more  common  in  the  cold  winter  months  than  in  summer;  as  a rule,  a 
rest  of  a day  or  two  or  more  is  required  to  bring  it  on.  It  rarely  comes  on 
without  exercise ; however,  I have  known  it  to  occur  without  it. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  of  azoturia  are  unlike  those  of  other  dis- 
eases and  are  very  plain.  After  a few  days  rest  the  horse  is  brought  out  of  the 
stable,  having  been  well  fed  on  grain  and  not  exercised.  He  seems  in  fine 
spirits,  but  before  going  far  he  becomes  dull  and  sluggish,  perspires  freely, 
shows  some  stiffness  in  the  loins  and  hind  quarters  and  steps  as  though 
walking  on  a rolling  stone.  The  animal  walks  stiff ; knuckles  on  the  fetlock, 
usually  worse  on  one  than  the  other  and  soon  becomes  so  crippled  that  he  can 
go  no  further.  He  then  either  remains  standing  still  or  falls  down,  suffering 
great  pain.  His  pulse  quickens  and  he  frequently  rolls,  very  often  making  un- 


4G 


Tl  lb:  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


successful  efforts  to  get  up.  He  is  able  to  do  so  in  front  but  is  partially  para- 
lyzed behind  and  is  only  able  to  rise  part  way  up.  The  muscles  of  the  haunches 
contract  firmly  and  generally  enlarge.  Azoturia  occasionally  affects  the  fore 
quarters  and  not  the  hind  limbs.  This  form  I do  not  regard  as  being  nearly 
so  fatal.  When  the  loin  muscles  are  much  involved  the  animal  suffers  the 
most  pain.  This  form  is  quite  often  thought  to  be  broken  back ; however,  if 
you  will  inquire  into  the  history  of  the  case  you  will  soon  learn  it  is  a case  of 
azoturia  and  not  fractured  back. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all  let  me  say  this  is  a preventable  disease  but 
not  by  any  means  always  curable.  This  being  the  case,  why  should  horse 
owners  waste  their  feed  on  idle  horses  when  the  food  is  only  acting  as  a 
slow  poison?  It  is  unnecessary  to  feed  idle  horses  more  than  one-quarter  the 
quantity  of  grain  which  they  require  when  doing  full  work.  Thin  horses 
seldom  suffer  from  azoturia.  Clear  out  the  bowels  promptly  by  giving  a full 
dose  of  cathartic  medicine.  Aloes  five  drams,  podophylin  % dram  and  ginger 
2 drams  may  be  given  at  one  dose,  either  in  pill  form  or  as  a drench.  Or, 
give  one  quart  of  raw  linseed  oil ; or  give  epsom  or  Glauber’s  salts.  Also  give 
copious  injections  of  soap  suds  with  oil  added.  Give  %-ounce  doses  of  bromide 
of  potash  every  four  hours.  Draw  off  the  urine  if  the  horse  is  unable  to  pass 
it ; here  is  where  many  geldings  are  ruined.  It  is  easy  work  to  pass  a catheter 
in  the  mare  but  not  always  so  with  a gelding.  I find  in  most  cases  the  animal 
will  pass  his  water  if  let  alone.  Hot  applications  to  the  back  and  loins  are 
very  beneficial.  It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  keep  the  horse  from  going 
down ; therefore,  if  the  animal  were  stopped  and  stabled  when  the  attack  first 
comes  on,  few  deaths  would  result.  If  the  horse  gets  down,  try  to  keep  him 
from  lying  flat;  prop  him  up,  hand  rub  his  cold  legs  and  ears,  cover  body  with 
enough  blankets  to  keep  him  warm  and  rub  his  back  with  mustard  and  water 
or  some  good  home  liniment.  Let  him  drink  plenty  of  water  but  it  should 
not  be  too  cold.  Keep  him  quiet  and  comfortable.  When  the  proper  time 
comes,  I have  used  slings  to  good  advantage,  but  it  does  harm  to  sling  a 
horse  that  is  wholly  unable  to  stand  alone.  The  bowels,  kidneys  and  skin 
should  be  kept  moderately  active  while  the  animal  is  recovering  and  the 
horse  should  be  fed  sloppy  mashes,  some  vegetables,  and  well  cured  hay  or 
grass.  In  conclusion  let  me  say — Exercise  all  heavy  breeds  of  horses,  be  sure 
they  have  fresh  air  to  breathe  and  when  idle  are  fed  not  more  than  one-fourtli 
or  one-third  the,  amount  of  grain  required  when  working.  Stop  immediately 
when  you  notice  your  horse  showing  dullness,  perspiring  freely  and  crippling 
behind  when  going  slow  soon  after  leaving  the  stable,  and  especially  if  he 
has  been  in  the  stable  resting  for  two  or  more  days.  By  observing  what  I 
have  said  you  need  liave  no  fear  of  losing  any  hoYse  with  this  fatal  ailment. 
PEOPLE’S  PIOME  REMEDIES  FOR  AZOTURIA.— 

1.  Hot  Fomentations,  Etc. — First  give  a dose  of  from  4 to  G drams  of  aloes 
and  then  give  4 drams  of  bromide  of  potassium  mixed  with  an  ounce  of  sweet 
spirits  of  nitre.  The  nitre  and  potassium  may  then  be  given  every  five  or  six 
hours  if  required  to  quiet  the  nervous  excitement.  Also  apply  hot  water  fo- 
mentations over  the  loins.  The  horse  should  be  stopped  immediately  when 
an  attack  of  azoturia  comes  on. 

GRAVEL— CALCULI— STONE  IN  THE  BLADDER.— See  Cattle 
Department.”) 

INCONTINENCE  OF  URINE— ENURESIS.— (See  “Cattle  Depart- 
ment.”) 


Vertebro-Sacral  Presentation. 


T.ninbo-Sacral  Presentation. 

POSITIONS  OF  FOAL  AT  BIRTH. 
(Normal  Presentations.) 


DISEASES  OF  THE  GENERATIVE  ORGANS  OF 
BOTH  THE  HORSE  AND  MARE. 

(Including  Foaling  and  Its  Attending  Difficulties.) 


BARRENNESS. — Failure  to  breed  is  quite  often  due  to  an  acid  secretion 
of  the  genital  organs  or  it  follows  a retention  of  the  afterbirth  or  is  the  result 
of  infection  where  the  germs  of  contagious  abortion  have  been  picked  up. 
It  may  also  be  on  account  of  an  abnormal  condition  of  the  sexual  organs  of 
either  male  or  female.  An  acid  condition  of  the  womb  and  vagina  is  quite 
common  in  mares  and  cows  and  when  it  exists  conception  will  not  as  a rule  take 
place.  Animals  that  sufTer  from  infectious  abortion  germs  have  a catarrhal 
inflammation  of  the  womb  and  vagina ; therefore,  they  are  not  so  likely  to 
become  pregnant  as  well  animals,  and  if  they  do,  are  likely  to  have  a mis- 
carriage. Old  animals  are  often  barren  and  some  young  ones  because  of  ex- 
cessive service.  Closing  of  the  neck  of  the  womb  prevents  many  mares  from 
getting  with  foal.  The  standing  wide  open  of  the  neck  of  the  womb  prevents 
some  mares  remaining  pregnant.  Any  unnatural  discharge  coming  from  the 
womb  generally  prevents  conception  and  also  irritates  the  neck  of  the  womb 
and  is  inclined  to  grow  worse  if  not  corrected. 

TREATMENT. — If  it  is  due  to  an  acid  condition,  dissolve  one  ounce  of 
baking  soda  in  a quart  of  clean  water  and  wash  out  the  vagina  daily  for  two 
weeks  or  longer ; or,  put  a tablespoonful  of  carbolic  acid  into  three  pints  of 
water  and  wash  out  the  vagina  daily  until  she  gets  with  foal,  but  do  not  mate 
the  mare  until  you  know  she  is  well  and  has  been  opened  within  a few  hours 
before  she  is  bred.  In  opening  the  neck  of  the  womb  use  clean  hands  with 
finger  nails  cut  short,  or  use  a rubber  glove ; or,  use  a steel  sound,  which  is  the 
best.  The  yeast  treatment  is  quite  effective  in  curing  barrenness  in  horses  and 
cattle  when  the  disorder  is  due  to  an  acid  condition  of  the  genital  tract.  The 
solution  is  made  as  follows.  Put  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  into  a 
pint  of  boiled  water,  set  the  solution  near  the  stove  or  in  the  sun  and  maintain 
at  a temperature  of  about  70  degrees,  for  four  or  five  hours;  then  add  three 
pints  of  boiled  water  and  keep  it  warm  for  five  or  six  hours.  By  this  time  the 
solution  will  have  a milky  appearance  and  is  ready  for  use.  Flush  the  parts 
first  with  warm  water,  then  inject  the  yeast.  The  animal  should  be  mated 
from  two  to  six  hours  after  the  vagina  has  been  washed  out  with  clean  warm 
water  and  the  yeast  mixture  applied.  I have  prescribed  this  treatment  to  a 
great  many  horse  and  cattle  breeders  who  have  tested  its  merits  to  their 
satisfaction.  However,  in  cases  where  the  animal  does  not  come  in  heat  it  has 
no  value.  For  such  give  twenty  grains  of  powdered  cantharides  or  one  dram 
of  tincture  of  cantharides  at  a dose  in  feed  night  and  morning.  This  medicine 
I have  found  acts  as  well  as  any  in  stimulating  the  generative  organs  into 
action,  but  it  is  by  no  means  a reliable  remedy. 

ABORTION— MISCARRIAGE— SLINKING  OF  FOAL.— This  consists 
of  the  expulsion  of  the  foetus,  generally  before  it  can  live,  from  the  womb 
(uterus)  ; however,  the  word  “ abortion  ” is  used  wrong  many  times  in  speak- 

47 


48 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


ing  of  marcs  or  animals  which  miscarry  before  the  proper  time  for  parturition 
arrives. 

CAUSES. — Injuries  of  many  kinds  may  produce  abortion.  Among  the 
causes  are  blows  or  pressure  on  the  abdomen,  disease  of  the  abdominal  walls, 
acute  indigestion,  slips,  falls,  exhaustion,  weakness,  influenza,  severe  exer- 
tion, too  active  cathartics,  death  or  deformity  of  foetus,  ergotized  food,  smutty 
feed,  impure  water,  germs  in  the  uterine  tract  and  also  fright  and  bad  odors. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  the  early  stages  of  gestation  it  may  take  place  without 
warning  and  no  person  know  of  it,  for  it  does  not  make  the  animal  very  sick. 
The  animal  coming  in  heat  again  is  of  course  evidence  that  she  has  aborted. 
A swelling  of  the  external  generative  organs  and  a filling  of  the  udder  should 
prove  a sort  of  warning.  A discharge  from  the  vagina  during  pregnancy  is 
an  indication  that  the  mare  may  have  had  a miscarriage. 

TREATMENT. — Prevent  as  many  of  the  causes  which  I have  mentioned 
as  possible  and  it  will  go  a long  way  toward  preventing  abortion.  When  it 
follows  an  accident  that  is  not  too  severe  the  animal  soon  recovers,  even  if 
very  little  is  done  in  the  line  of  treatment  other  than  good  care.  The  most 
important  thing  to  consider  is  whether  the  miscarriage  is  due  to  infection  or 
injury.  If  an  infectious  kind  be  in  your  stable,  disinfectants  should  be  used 
freely  to  stamp  out  the  contagion  and  remember  that  cows  and  sheep  very 
often  infect  mares.  If  the  bowels  are  too  loose  and  the  labor  pains  come  on 
without  much  relaxation,  give  one  ounce  of  tincture  of  opium  at  a dose  three 
times  a day.  If  she  loses  her  colt,  burn  it;  wash  stalls  with  one  part  carbolic 
acid  to  fifty  parts  water  and  also  spread  copperas  on  the  floors ; or,  dissolve 
the  copperas  in  water  and  sprinkle  it  on  stalls  and  floors.  Let  her  pass  two  or 
three  periods  of  heat  before  having  her  served.  Give  tonics  such  as  iron,  gen- 
tian and  ginger. 

SPAYING. — (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

LEUCORRHEA — WHITES. — This  is  a disease  affecting  the  mucous 
membrane  of  the  uterus  (womb)  and  sometimes  of  the  vagina.  Whenever 
there  is  an  outpouring  of  a milky-looking  discharge  from  the  vagina  there  is 
always  a sort  of  sub-acute  inflammation  of  the  parts  which  may  be  the  result  of 
a slight  irritation  caused  by  a retention  of  a portion  of  the  placenta  or  after- 
birth. The  disease  is  most  common  in  old  and  debilitated  animals. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  a white  discharge  issuing  from  the  vulva, 
enough  in  many  cases  to  soil  the  thighs.  Ovarian  diseases  sometimes  give 
rise  to  leucorrhea.  In  some  cases  large  quantities  of  mucus  accumulate  in 
the  uterus  and  come  away  when  the  animal  is  exercised.  This  is  especially 
likely  to  be  the  case  if  the  animal  stands  with  the  forefeet  a little  lower  than 
the  hind  ones. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  of  leucorrhea  should  be  both  constitu- 
tional and  local  and  the  food  should  be  highly  nutritious,  easily  digested,  laxa- 
tive in  character  and  liberal  in  quantity.  Give  three  drams  powdered  sulphate 
iron,  two  drams  of  ground  gentian  and  one-half  dram  of  iodide  of  potassium 
at  a dose  in  feed  three  times  a day.  Dissolve  two  drams  permanganate  of 
potash  or  two  ounces  of  carbolic  acid  in  a gallon  of  tepid  water  and  daily 
wash  out  the  uterus  and  vagina  with  the  aid  of  a rubber  tube  and  funnel.  Or, 
dissolve  one-quarter  pound  of  alum  or  two  ounces  of  sulphate  of  zinc  in  a 
gallon  of  water  and  use  in  the  same  way.  It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  after 
using  active  astringents  for  a few  days  the  solution  should  be  gradually 
weakened  by  adding  water.  There  are  many  other  excellent  remedies,  both  in 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


49 


the  line  of  tonics  and  astringents,  that  are  sometimes  as  good  as  those  I have 
mentioned,  but  they  are  more  expensive. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  VAGINIA— VAGINITIS.— (See  “Cattle 
Department.”} 

METRITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  WOMB.— Metritis  or  in- 
flammation of  the  womb  is  not  a very  common  ailment  of  the  mare  but  is  quite 
common  with  cows. 

CAUSES. — When  inflammation  of  the  womb  occurs  in  the  mare  it  often 
follows  using  force  or  the  improper  use  of  instruments  when  assisting  in  the 
delivery  during  parturition  and  it  may  come  from  an  invasion  of  micro-organ- 
isms which  make  their  way  into  the  uterus  soon  after  foaling  or  it  sometimes 
results  from  exposure  and  want  of  proper  care. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  mare  shows  more  or  less  uneasiness,  exhibiting  a 
disposition  to  paw  and  to  lie  down  and  roll.  She  keeps  the  back  somewhat 
arched  and  the  temperature  always  goes  up.  There  is)  generally  loss  of  appe- 
tite but  great  thirst. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  generally  good  practice  to  give  twenty  drops  of 
tincture  of  aconite  in  some  cold  water  every  three  hours  until  the  fever  re- 
duces ; or,  giving  one  dram  of  acetanilide  every  four  hours  will  also  reduce  the 
fever;  or,  give  % ounce  of  saltpeter  three  times  a day  in  the  water.  The 
pain  should  be  subdued  by  giving  tincture  of  opium  (laudanum)  in  one-ounce 
doses  every  two  hours  until  relieved.  Or,  give  one  dram  fluid  extract  bella- 
donna every  two  hours ; or,  give  three  grains  morphine  hypodermically.  The 
latter  will  act  quickly  in  relieving  the  pain  and  it  should  be  repeated  if  neces- 
sary. Mustard  and  water  applied  over  the  back  and  around  the  flanks  and 
abdomen  are  helpful.  Liniments  are  also  proper  remedies  but  severe  blisters 
are  not  necessary.  The  womb  should  be  washed  out  with  one  part  carbolic 
acid,  two  parts  glycerine  and  fifty  parts  water  which  is  of  the  same  heat  as 
the  body.  Any  of  the  coal-tar  disinfectants  put  into  forty  parts  water  will 
help.  Or,  dissolve  two  ounces  sugar  of  lead  in  one  gallon  of  tepid  water  and 
use  twice  daily.  It  is  well  to  remember  that  the  mare  is  more  easily  hurt 
during  parturition  than  the  cow ; therefore,  avoid  using  much  force  and  be 
sure  if  you  use  instruments  to  have  them  perfectly  clean.  Also,  the  hands  of 
the  operator  should  be  clean  and  his  nails  should  be  cut  short  and  be  made 
smooth. 

RUPTURE  OF  THE  WOMB.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

EVERSION  OF  THE  UTERUS  OR  WOMB.— This  consists  in  the 
womb  turning  inside  out  and  protruding  through  the  vagina.  It  most  fre- 
quently follows  foaling  when  the  after-pains  continue.  Or,  it  may  be  caused 
by  the  animal’s  standing  with  the  hind  parts  too  low. 

TREATMENT. — The  womb  should  be  kept  clean  and  this  is  best  done 
by  placing  a sheet  under  it.  Place  her  hind  parts  twelve  or  fifteen  inches 
higher  than  the  fore  parts  or  even  higher  than  this ; if  she  strains  much  give 
one-ounce  doses  of  chloral-hydrate  every  two  hours  until  she  becomes  quiet. 
Or,  give  one-ounce  doses  of  tincture  of  opium  every  thirty  minutes  until  she 
ceases  to  strain.  Be  sure  that  the  afterbirth  is  not  attached  to  the  uterus 
when  the  parts  are  returned  to  place.  Also  notice  that  the  womb  is  not  rup- 
tured for  if  this  is  the  case  it  should  be  stitched  carefully  with  catgut  and 
treated  with  antiseptic  washes.  A surcingle  should  be  placed  around  the 
flank  of  the  mare  and  she  should  be  fed  nutritious  and  easil}^  digested,  but  not 
too  much,  bulky  food,  and  should  be  kept  in  a position  with  the  forefeet  several 
4 


50 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


inches  lower  than  the  hind  ones.  It  is  very  often  necessary  to  put  a few 
stitches  in  the  upper  part  of  the  vulva  and  leave  them  in  a few  days.  Besides, 
she  should  be  given  opium,  chloral,  belladonna  or  morphine  to  keep  her  from 
straining.  Sometimes  in  returning  the  everted  womb  a rupture  of  the  womb 
or  vagina  is  made  unless  it  is  done  cautiously.  This  occurs  as  a result  of  push- 
ing too  hard  against  the  everted  parts  with  the  ends  of  the  fingers  instead  of 
the  flat  of  the  hand  or  fist. 

EVERSION  OF  VAGINA.— This  consists  in  a turning  out  of  the  vagina, 
caused  very  often  by  standing  with  the  hind  feet  considerably  lower  than  the 
fore  ones  and  also  by  crowding  the  bowels  too  full.  Constipation  is  another 
common  cause  of  eversion. 

TREATMENT. — Place  the  mare  in  a position  in  which  the  hind  parts  arc 
not  less  than  four  or  five  inches  higher  than  the  fore  parts.  Limit  her  supply 
of  bulky  food  and  dissolve  one  ounce  of  alum  and  one-half  ounce  of  sugar  of 
lead  in  a quart  of  warm  water  and  apply  to  the  everted  parts  ten  or  twelve 
times  a day.  Or,  apply  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  fifty  parts  water  three  or 
four  times  a day.  The  parts  should  be  returned  to  place  without  injuring  them, 
a few  stitches  taken  in  the  upper  part  of  the  vulva  to  hold  them  in  place,  a 
surcingle  applied  to  the  flanks  and  it  may  be  necessary  to  give  her  ounce 
doses  of  laudanum  to  prevent  straining. 

CLEANING— REMOVING  PLACENTA  OR  AFTERBIRTH.— When 
mares  foal  too  early,  the  result  of  injury  or  infectious  abortion,  they  do  not 
always  clean  properly,  the  afterbirth  remaining  inside  the  womb  with  perhaps 
a portion  hanging  out  of  the  vagina.  If  the  bowels  are  not  open  give  one  pint 
of  raw  linseed  oil  and  one  dram  of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna,  one  dose  only. 
Or,  give  injections  of  warm  soap  suds  to  empty  the  rectum,  but  if  her  bowels 
are  moderably  moist  do  not  give  more  than  one-half  pint  of  oil  and  in  some 
cases  it  is  best  to  give  none.  If  the  afterbirth  does  not  come  away  in  twenty- 
four  hours,  remove  it  with  clean  hands,  but  the  operator  should  have  no  sharp 
nails  and  the  hand  should  be  smeared  with  one  part  of  carbolic  acid  and 
twelve  parts  of  sweet  oil.  Also,  give  the  mare  twenty  drops  of  carbolic  acid 
and  a teaspoonful  of  powdered  saltpeter  at  a dose  once  a day  for  ten  days 
and  if  a discharge  continues  inject  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  fifty  parts 
water;  or,  dissolve  one  ounce  of  alum  in  a quart  of  water  and  inject  once  a 
day  until  she  is  well. 

AFTER-PAINS  FOLLOWING  FOALING.— There  are  cases  where  the 
labor  pains  continue  after  the  foal  has  been  expelled  from  the  womb,  and  in 
order  to  avoid  making  mistakes  in  giving  quieting  drugs  you  should  pass  the 
hand  into  the  uterus  and  ascertain  whether  or  not  there  is  another  colt  in  the 
womb  and  if  this  is  the  case  allow  the  pains  to  continue  until  the  foal  is  ex- 
pelled, then  perhaps  it  will  be  necessary  to  give  a stimulant,  such  as  whiskey  or 
wine.  But  if  the  after-pains  are  the  result  of  nervousness,  give  one-half  ounce 
doses  of  chloral-hydrate  in  one-half  pint  of  cold  water  every  hour  or  oftener 
until  the  mare  gets  relief.  Or,  give  one  ounce  of  tincture  of  opium  (lauda- 
num), one-half  ounce  of  fluid  extract  of  ginger  and  four  ounces  of  whiskey  in 
a pint  of  cold  water  every  hour  until  pain  ceases.  Cover  her  back  and  loins 
with  plenty  of  clothing.  If  the  womb  tends  to  evert  place  her  hind  quarters 
a foot  higher  than  the  fore  parts ; or,  stitch  the  upper  part  of  the  vulva  and 
apply  a surcingle  arbund  the  flank. 

BLEEDING  AFTER  FOALING— FLOODING.— Considerable  hemor- 
rhage sometimes  follows  foaling  on  account  of  the  womb’s  being  injured  or 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


51 


everted  and  its  failure  to  contract  after  its  relaxed  state.  By  passing  the  hand 
into  the  uterus  it  will  be  found  full  of  blood  clots. 

TREATMENT. — Give  one-ounce  doses  of  fluid  extract  of  ergot  every 
thirty  or  sixty  minutes  until  bleeding  ceases,  but  be  sure  to  use  fresh  ergot 
for  this  drug  becomes  worthless  after  it  is  about  a year  old. 

DROPSY— SWELLING  OF  THE  BELLY  BEFORE  FOALING.— 
This  is  a condition  that  exists  very  often  in  brood  mares  and  commences  three 
or  four  weeks  before  foaling  time  and  many  very  good  mares  are  troubled 
in  this  way  without  showing  the  slightest  symptoms  of  disease.  It  is  a result 
of  improper  elimination  of  the  fluid  from  the  body. 

TREATMENT. — Give  the  mare  more  exercise,  change  her  feed,  keep  her 
bowels  moist  by  feeding  some  well-salted  bran  mashes  or  vegetables,  also 
give  one-ounce  doses  of  either  fluid  extract  of  buchu  or  powdered  buchu 
in  her  feed  once  or  twice  a day  before  foaling  and  continue  the  treatment  for 
a few  days  after  foaling. 

GARGET— MAMMITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  UDDER.— 

Mammitis,  inflammation  of  the  udder,  or  garget,  is  when  an  inflammation 
takes  place  in  the  glands  that  secrete  the  milk. 

CAUSES. — The  common  causes  are  injuries,  the  colt  not  sucking  properly, 
lying  on  cold  damp  ground,  or  bacterial  infection  through  the  teat  opening. 

SYMPTOMS. — Either  one  or  both  sides  of  the  udder  become  hot,  tender 
and  inflamed ; a watery  fluid  is  passed  instead  of  milk ; the  mare  walks  with 
a straddling  gait  and  sometimes  she  loses  her  appetite  and  has  fever.  In  some 
cases  pus  comes  from  the  udder  and  in  other  cases  an  abscess  forms  in  the 
bag,  requiring  opening. 

TREATMENT. — If  her  bowels  are  costive,  give  one-quarter  pound  of 
epsom  salts  every  six  hours  until  they  open.  Give  one  dram  of  fluid  extract  of 
belladonna  and  ten  drops  of  tincture  of  aconite  four  or  five  times  a day ; also 
give  her  a teaspoonful  of  powdered  saltpeter  twice  a day.  Foment  the  bag 
with  hot  water  and  apply  equal  parts  of  extract  of  witch  hazel,  spirits  of  cam- 
phor, alcohol  and  sweet  oil ; or,  apply  hot  linseed  oil.  I frequently  give  them 
two-dram  doses  of  fluid  extract  of  phytolacca  root  (poke)  three  times  a day 
and  apply  extract  of  phytolacca  one  part  and  vaseline  eight  parts  to  udder 
twice  a day.  In  giving  this  drug,  large  doses  very  often  act  the  best  and  three 
or  four  times  the  quantity  I have  prescribed  may  be  given  with  safety.  How- 
ever, giving  two  drams  every  two  or  three  hours  is  a better  way  to  medicate 
than  to  give  large  doses  once  or  twice  a day. 

MILK  FEVER— PUERPERAL  FEVER.— This  is  technically  called 
“ puerperal  fever  ” and  is  a sort  of  fever  occurring  two  or  three  days  after 
foaling.  It  is  always  made  worse  by  too  much  exercise,  over  exertion  or  ex- 
posure to  storms. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  an  increase  in  temperature,  quick  pulse,  quick 
breathing,  cold  ears  and  legs,  costive  bowels  and  highly  colored  urine.  The 
udder  is  inclined  to  be  inflamed  and  to  secrete  very  little,  if  any,  milk.  This 
ailment  is  most  likely  to  affect  a mare  after  having  had  her  first  colt. 

TREATMENT. — Place  the  mare  in  a warm,  comfortable  place,  bandage 
her  legs,  clothe  her  body  and  treat  her  much  the  same  as  for  mammitis. 

BLEEDING  FROM  THE  NAVEL.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 
INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  NAVEL  URINE  DUCT.— (See  “ Cattle 
Department.”) 


52 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


URINE  DISCHARGED  THROUGH  THE  NAVEL.— (See  “ Cattle  De- 
partment.”) 

JOINT  ILL. — (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

GONORRHEA— GLEET— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  URETHRA. 

— This  ailment  often  follows  as  a result  of  irritants  in  the  urine  which  were 
taken  by  the  mouth,  from  excessive  copulation,  connection  with  a newly  de- 
livered female  or  one  that  has  other  infectious  ailments,  or  from  injury. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  swelling  and  soreness  in  the  sheath  and  the 
horse  evinces  pain  while  passing  urine.  There  is  also  a discharge  of  white 
mucus  and  if  the  membranes  are  examined  they  present  a fiery  and  inflamed 
appearance. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  hot  fomentations,  give  a light  dose  of  physic  and 
foment  the  parts  with  hot  water  and  when  suppuration  takes  place  use  a 
soothing  or  astringent  injection  such  as  is  made  by  dissolving  two  drams  of 
permanganate  of  potash  or  two  ounces  of  sugar  of  lead,  or  one  ounce  of 
sulphate  of  zinc,  or  one  hundred  grains  of  nitrate  of  silver,  in  a gallon  of 
water  and  use  any  one  of  these  lotions  twice  a day.  Also,  give  one-half-ounce 
doses  of  citrate  of  potash  or  the  same  quantity  of  lithia  at  a dose  two  or  three 
times  a day.  Feed  sparingly  of  vegetables,  but  give  mostly  grain  and  well 
cured  fodder.  In  the  male  a stricture  may  occur  from  the  use  of  too  active 
astringents  in  the  early  stage  of  this  disease.  When  this  occurs  it  causes 
great  pain  in  urinating  and  should  be  relieved  by  passing  catheters  or  sounds 
of  different  sizes  daily  until  the  strictured  portion  of  the  urethra  is  dilated. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  TESTICLES— ORCHITIS.— (See  “ Cattle 
Department.”) 

NYMPHOMANIA.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

CASTRATION. — Castration  is  usually  performed  during  the  months  of 
spring  and  autumn,  for  it  should  not  be  done  in  zero  weather  or  during  the 
fly  season.  One  year  old  is  a good  age  to  change  colts  and  if  it  is  done  earlier, 
all  the  better,  for  they  mind  it  less  than  when  older.  However,  the  testicles 
are  not  always  down  in  the  scrotum  much  before  the  age  of  twelve  months 
and  sometimes  they  are  later  in  descending.  It  is  not  necessary  to  throw  a 
colt  or  even  an  old  stallion  to  castrate  him,  unless  he  is  a ridgling  or  is  ruptured. 
A twitch  should  be  placed  on  the  nose  or  a war  bridle  put  on  him  and  if  neces- 
sary the  forefoot  should  be  held  up  by  an  assistant  or  the  hind  legs  hoppled 
above  the  hocks,  leaving  the  connecting  strap  twelve  or  fourteen  inches  long. 
This  will  prevent  his  kicking  you  but  should  you  be  an  experienced  operator 
it  is  never  necessary  to  go  to  this  trouble  for  it  requires  only  a minute  or  two 
to  complete  the  operation.  The  scrotum  should  be  washed  off  with  soap  and 
water.  Then  apply  either  alcohol  or  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts 
water.  The  instrument  as  well  as  the  hands  of  the  operator  should  be 
clean.  Now,  if  not  cast,  make  r bold  incision  exposing  the  testicle  and  it  is 
wise  to  take  out  the  smaller  one  first,  cutting  it  off  with  the  emasculator  or 
ecraseur.  There  are  many  different  methods  of  castration,  such  as  actual 
cautery  or  burning  off  the  cord  with  a red  hot  iron ; ligature,  which  means  to 
tie  the  end  of  the  cord  or  artery  to  prevent  bleeding;  torsion,  which  consists 
in  twisting  off  the  cord  and  applying  caustic  clamps  to  prevent  hemorrhage. 
The  ecraseur  or  emasculator  is  preferable  to  the  other  mentioned  methods.  I 
have  castrated  thousands  of  valuable  animals  and  employed  every  known 
method,  doing  it  whichever  way  the  owner  requested,  but  if  left  to  my  choice, 
I always  use  the  emasculator  and  seldom  throw  a colt  down  if  both  testicles 


CASTING  A HORSE. 
(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


RESTRAINING  A VICIOUS  HORSE  WHILE  CLIPPING. 

The  hopples  on  hind  legs  prevent  kicking  and  the  horse  is  subdued  by  the  twitch 
on  nose  and  war  bridle  on  head.  Picture  shows  operator  clipping  horse  with  electric 
machine.  (Photographed  at  Dr.  Pair’s  Veterinary  Hospital  especially  for  this  book.) 


■ • - V.  . 

• ■ > 


•n 


i 

f 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  CxENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


53 


are  down  and  he  is  sound  and  normal.  The  only  argument  in  favor  of  operat- 
ing while  standing  is  to  prevent  accident  in  throwing  and  this  is  not  great. 

RIDGLINGS.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

TROUBLES  FOLLOWING  CASTRATION.— There  is  always  more  or 
less  pain  and  always  some  swelling  of  the  scrotum  but  if  there  be  no  loss  of 
appetite  and  not  much  fever,  pay  no  attention  to  the  colt  or  horse.  The 
wound  should  be  opened  and  some  carbolic  lotion  (one  part  carbolic  acid  to 
thirty  of  water)  applied  daily.  Or,  apply  iodoform  and  boric  acid  in  equal 
parts  daily.  There  will  always  be  some  suppuration,  some  adhesions,  perhaps 
some  secondary  hemorrhage  and,  if  extensive,  it  may  be  necessary  to  cast 
the  colt  or  horse  and  grab  the  end  of  the  cord  with  forceps  and,  after  pulling 
out  the  cord,  tie  the  artery  with  catgut  or  very  fine  silk.  Peritonitis  may  follow 
the  operation  from  exposure ; or,  if  the  operation  has  not  been  done  properly, 
tetanus,  or  lockjaw,  sometimes  follows  this  operation,  but  if  iodoform  gauze 
be  placed  in  the  wound  and  cleanliness  observed  at  the  time  of  the  operation 
very  few  would  have  lockjaw  following  castration.  Hernia  is  another  ail- 
ment which  follows  castration  and  when  it  occurs  treat  it  surgically.  Abscess 
in  the  scrotum  often  follows  and  is  easily  treated.  Open  the  parts  freely  and 
inject  with  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  fifty  parts  water  twice  a day.  Scirrhous 
cord  often  follows  leaving  the  cord  too  long  from  the  use  of  clamps  in  cas- 
tration. The  cord  adheres  to  the  skin  of  the  scrotum  and  is  not  released  and 
a tumor  grows  on  the  end  of  the  cord  which,  when  cut  off,  soon  gets  well. 
This  is  not  by  any  means  a difficult  operation  unless  the  tumor  has  attained 
very  large  proportions.  Then  it  is  difficult  to  stop  the  bleeding.  • However, 
if  the  operator  is  energetic  and  cautious  he  will  be  fairly  successful.  I re- 
member of  removing  a very  large  7-pound  tumor  from  the  trotting  horse 
“ Clingstone  ” which  cost  Mr.  W.  J.  Gordon  twenty  thousand  dollars.  He 
made  a perfect  recovery  and  trotted  several  seasons  afterwards,  going  faster 
than  he  had  before  and  Mr.  Gordon  refused  an  offer  of  fifty  thousand  dollars 
from  Mr.  W.  H.  Vanderbilt  of  New  York  City. 

SWELLING  AFTER  CASTRATION.— If  a colt  swells  but  little  after 
castration  and  if  there  is  but  little  suppuration  with  no  loss  of  appetite,  the 
case  is  usually  doing  nicely,  but  if  the  scrotum  swells  badly  and  the  animal 
loses  its  appetite  treatment  should  be  prescribed. 

CAUSES. — By  using  dirty  hands  and  instruments  and  by  lack  of  general 
cleanliness  during  the  operation  the  parts  are  often  infected,  setting  up  con- 
siderable inflammation.  Besides,  it  also  follows  keeping  the  animal  in  filthy 
quarters  after  he  is  castrated. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  bowels  open  and  the  kidneys  active.  Open 
the  wound  in  the  scrotum  with  your  finger  but  be  sure  the  hand  is  clean  and 
dipped  in  carbolized  oil  or  disinfectant.  Inject  one  part  carbolic  acid  and 
thirty  parts  water  into  scrotum  twice  a day,  also  give  a teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered saltpeter  twice  a day.  Fomenting  the  scrotum  with  hot  water  relieves 
the  pain.  Be  sure  to  keep  the  colt  in  a clean  stable  or  let  him  run  out  to 
pasture. 

BLEEDING  AFTER  CASTRATION. — More  or  less  bleeding  always 
occurs  after  castration.  The  blood  may  come  from  veins  in  the  scrotum  or 
from  the  artery  of  the  cord ; if  from  the  veins  the  blood  is  dark  colored,  but 
if  from  the  artery  it  is  of  a bright  red  and  comes  away  in  jerks,  shooting  out 
with  more  force  than  if  from  a vein. 

TREATMENT. — Lay  a wet  blanket  over  the  loins  and  dash  cold  water  on 


54 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


and  into  the  scrotum.  Sometimes,  pouring  cold  water  on  the  loins  stops  it 
quickly.  Stand  the  colt  or  horse  with  the  forefeet  lower  than  the  hind  ones. 
Dissolve  four  ounces  of  sugar  of  lead  in  a gallon  of  water  and  inject  into  the 
scrotum  or  dissolve  one  ounce  each  of  alum  and  copperas  in  a pint  of  cold 
water  and  inject  into  the  scrotum;  then  pack  the  scrotum  with  cotton  satur- 
ated with  either  of  these  lotions,  removing  the  cotton  next  day.  If  the  blood 
comes  from  the  artery  place  a twitch  or  twist  on  the  colt’s  nose  and  reach 
for  the  cord  and  tie  a silk  thread  on  the  artery  and  this  will  stop  bleeding. 
Injecting  equal  parts  of  Monsell’s  solution  of  iron  and  water,  or  injecting 
adrenalin  into  the  scrotum  generally  stops  bleeding. 

PEOPLE’S  HOMPI  REMEDIES. — For  Bleeding  from  Castration. — 

1.  Salt  Water  and  Vinegar. — Wash  thoroughly  with  salt  water  and  then  . 
apply  vinegar. 

2.  Cold  Water. — Dash  cold  water  upon  the  parts.  This  will  frequently 
stop  the  bleeding.  ' 

3.  Muriate  of  Iron. — Wet  pledgets  of  tow  in  muriate  of  iron  and  stuff 
into  the  canal. 

4.  Cold  Pack  on  Back. — Place  a wet  towel  or  two  on  his  loins  and  keep 
them  wet  with  cold  water. 

5.  Tying.- — Tie  a string  tight  around  the  tail. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  SKIN. 

(Including  Scratches,  Grease  Heel,  Mange,  Surfeit,  Hide-Bound,  Warts,  Etc.) 


SCRATCHES— MUD  FEVER— CRACKED  HEELS.— This  is  a con- 
dition common  among  race  horses,  affecting  runners,  trotters  and  pacers.  It 
may  be  defined  as  an  inflammation  or  irritation  of  the  skin,  brought  on  by 
washing  or  showering  the  legs  with  cold  water  or  dirty  soap  suds.  The 
heavy  breeds  of  horses  are  no  doubt  more  liable  to  cracked  heels  than  the 
lighter  breeds  that  are  not  subjected  to  the  exciting  causes.  The  disease 
usually  affects  white  legs  first  and  is  more  likely  to  occur  in  the  hind  ones. 

CAUSES. — Cracked  heels  follow  washing  the  legs  or  exposing  them  to 
wet  and  filth  without  giving  them  proper  care  after  a drive  or  a hard  day’s 
work.  Heat  and  cold,  acting  alternately,  seem  to  have  a strong  tendency  to 
chap  the  skin.  Friction  is  another  cause  or  the  application  of  strong  irri- 
tating drugs.  It  is  an  ailment  that  seldom  affects  horses  that  have  proper  care. 

SYMPTOMS. — Usually  the  heels  show  a reddened  appearance  followed 
by  swelling  and  small  cracks  and  the  skin  exudes  a fluid  and  the  animal 
travels  stiff. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  animal  suffers  much  pain  apply  hot  water  and 
hot  packs  or  poultices  of  linseed  meal,  boiled  turnips^  or  antiphlogistine 
which  will  allay  the  irritation.  Dissolve  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar  of  lead, 
two  ounces  of  sulphate  of  zinc  and  one  ounce  of  powdered  sulphate  of  copper 
in  a gallon  of  water  and  apply  to  sore  heels  three  times  a day.  Or,  apply 
one  part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts  water  and  if  the  sores  appear  to  be 
malignant  and  tardy  in  healing  apply  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  fifteen  parts 
water.  In  cases  where  the  heels  are  dry  and  chapped  some  apply  one  part  boric 
acid,  one  part  powdered  alum  and  five  parts  lanolin  twice  a day.  The  animal 
should  be  fed  cooling  laxative  diet  and  if  you  believe  his  blood  is  bad  give 
one  dram  iodide  potassium  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day.  If  the  hair 
sheds,  leaving  the  heel  bald,  apply  one  part  boric  acid  and  six  parts  vaseline 
daily. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SCRATCHES.— 

1.  Carrot  Poultices. — Wash  the  parts  thoroughly  with  warm  soft  water 
and  castile  soap,  rinse  with  clear  water,  dry  with  a cloth  and  then  apply  a 
poultice  of  scraped  carrots.  Repeat  this  twice  a day. 

2.  Turnip  and  Charcoal  Poultices. — Clean  the  parts  with  castile  soap  and 
water  and  then  apply  a poultice  of  boiled  turnips  which  have  been  mashed 
and  thickened  with  powdered  charcoal. 

3.  Glycerine  and  Sulphur. — At  night  apply  a paste  made  of  sulphur  and 
glycerine,  using  just  enough  glycerine  to  give  it  a glossy  appearance.  In 
the  morning  apply  glycerine  alone.  So  continue  until  cured. 

4.  Blue  Vitriol,  Alum,  Vinegar,  Etc. — To  a quart  of  cider  vinegar  add 
an  ounce  each  of  copperas,  nut  gall,  blue  vitriol  and  alum.  Warm  this  until 
dissolved  and  apply  lightly  to  the  affected  parts  once  a day.  Keep  the  bowels 
open  with  epsom  salts. 


65 


56 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


5.  White  Lead  and  Linseed  Oil. — Soften  some  white  lead  with  linseed 
oil  and,  after  washing  and  rubbing  dry  the  affected  parts,  apply  the  lead  and 
oil  and  repeat  each  night  until  cured. 

6.  Ointment  for  Scratches. — To  an  ounce  each  of  vaseline  and  sugar  of 
lead  add  30  drops  of  carbolic  acid  and  make  into  an  ointment.  Always  cleanse 
the  parts  thoroughly  with  warm  water  and  castile  soap  and  then  dry  before 
applying  the  ointment. 

GREASE  HEEL. — This  is  a disease  showing  itself  generally  on  the  hind 
heels  of  the  horse  and  producing  an  irritation  of  the  parts  which  soon  in- 
volves the  hair-follicles  and  sebacious  glands  which  soon  give  off  a discharge. 
Heavy  breeds  of  horses  are  much  more  likely  to  be  affected  than  the  lighter 
breeds.  Some  veterinarians  are  inclined  to  believe  this  ailment  contagious 
and  to  be  caused  by  the  presence  of  a parasite ; however,  this  has  not  yet 
been  proven  to  my  satisfaction,  but  it  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  it  may 
be  communicated  from  one  to  another. 

CAUSES. — The  causes  of  grease  heel  are  both  exciting  and  predisposing. 
The  exciting  causes  are  washing  the  legs  too  often  and  not  drying  them 
properly,  especially  if  the  skin  is  white.  The  most  common  cause  is  cracked 
heels  or  scratches  which  it  often  follows  and  the  same  causes  that  produce 
the  one  will  cause  the  other.  Horses  with  round  fleshy  legs  that  are  in- 
clined to  stock  and  those  that  are  kept  in  filthy  stables  or  allowed  to  run 
in  snow  or  slush  or  walk  through  putrid  pools  in  the  straw  yard  or  used  in 
mud  and  wet  and  that  are  not  taken  care  of  after  their  day’s  work  are  very 
likely  to  have  grease  heel.  The  skin  in  the  region  of  the  heel  is  very  vascular 
and  abundantly  provided  with  oil  glands ; therefore,  when  exposed  to  irri- 
tants these  parts  are  likely  to  become  inflamed.  No  doubt,  either  overfeed- 
ing on  rich  nutritious  food  or  feeding  food  of  a poor  quality  has  a tendency  to 
produce  grease  heel. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  more  or  less  swelling  of  the  parts,  a 
slight  discharge  of  oily  fluid,  and  cracks  and  chaps  of  the  skin  with  some 
eruption  and  generally  lameness. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  of  grease  heel  should  consist  in  remov- 
ing the  cause  if  possible  and  in  taking  steps  to  arrest  the  discharge  and 
bring  about  a healthy  condition  of  the  diseased  parts.  It  is  always  a 
mistake  to  apply  too  powerful  astringents,  but  in  their  place  use  hot  fomen- 
tations and  poultices  after  the  hair  has  been  clipped  off.  Discontinue  feeding 
grain,  give  a full  dose  of  cathartic  medicine  and,  after  the  animal  is  purged, 
feed  cooling  laxative  food,  such  as  well  salted  bran  mashes,  vegetables  and 
grass.  Dissolve  Vi.  pound  of  sugar  of  lead,  three  ounces  sulphate  of  zinc  and 
one  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  in  a gallon  of  clean  water  and  apply  to  the  swollen 
and  inflamed  legs  three  or  four  times  a day.  Or,  dissolve  ten  grains  of 
chloride  of  zinc  in  a pint  of  water  and  apply  three  or  four  times  daily.  Or, 
dust  on  powdered  charcoal  or  use  bromo-chloral  and  after  the  sores  heal  and 
scabs  form  on  them  apply  some  glycerine.  Whenever  the  disease  assumes 
a malignant  type  and  ugly  looking  sores  appear,  touch  them  with  crude  car- 
bolic acid  or  dust  them  over  with  burnt  alum  or  with  nitrate  of  silver  or 
use  a red  hot  iron.  In  using  either  caustics  or  the  actual  cautery  it  must  be 
done  with  care  or  the  healthy  parts  may  be  injured.  I have  often  applied 
yeast  poultices  and  also  turnip  or  carrot  poultices  and  obtained  good  results 
in  the  early  treatment  of  this  ailment.  Give  three-dram  doses  of  powdered 
saltpeter  at  a dose  in  feed  three  times  a day  in  the  early  stage  of  this  ail- 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  SKIN. 


57 


ment;  in  the  later  stage  give  three  or  four-dram  doses  of  Fowler’s  solution 
of  arsenic  two  or  three  times  a day  for  fifteen  or  twenty  days. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  GREASE  HEEL.— 

1.  Oxide  of  Zinc  Ointment. — For  two  days  apply  poultices  of  equal  parts 
of  flax  seed  meal,  bran  and  finely  powdered  charcoal.  Then,  twice  a day  for 
ten  days  apply  oxide  of  zinc  ointment.  The  parts  should  be  thoroughly 
washed  and  dried  before  each  application.  Give  loosening  food  and  for  a 
week  give  2 drams  of  nitrate  of  potash  in  the  feed  morning  and  evening. 

2.  Turpentine,  Linseed  Oil  and  Oil  of  Vitriol. — Put  a quart  of  linseed 
oil  and  four  ounces  of  turpentine  into  an  earthen  vessel  and  very  slowly  add 
one  ounce  of  oil  of  vitriol.  Be  sure  to  add  the  vitriol  slowly  and  at  the  same 
time  stir  the  mixture  and  so  continue  until  cool.  Use  this  as  a liniment  for 
chronic  scratches,  grease  heel  and  old  sores. 

3.  Ointment  for  Grease  Heel. — To  half  a pound  each  of  honey,  lard  and 
tar  melted  together  add  one  ounce  of  pulverized  white  vitriol,  one  ounce  of 
pulverized  sugar  of  lead  and  one-half  pound  of  pulverized  alum  and  stir  until 
cold.  Put  on  a cloth  and  bind  on  for  36  hours.  Repeat  this  application  when- 
ever needed.  At  the  same  time  give  condition  powders  for  the  blood. 

ECZEMA,  ACUTE  AND  CHRONIC.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

MANGE — SCAB — ITCH. — All  these  ailments  are  due  to  parasites  that 
harbor  in  the  skin  or  to  mites  which  trouble  both  horses  and  cattle.  Some 
of  these  parasites  and  insects  bury  deep  in  the  cracks  of  the  skin  while  others 
work  on  the  surface  and  it  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  one  animal  gets 
them  from  another. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  almost  a constant  itching  of  some  parts  of  the 
surface  of  the  body  and  when  the  hand  or  curry  comb  or  brush  is  placed  on 
the  body  the  horse  leans  towards  you  as  though  he  liked  to  be  groomed. 
Scabs  very  often  form  and  sores  appear  which  are  the  result  of  the  animal’s 
rubbing  himself.  To  be  sure  that  an  animal  has  mites  use  a magnifying  glass 
in  looking  at  the  scales  that  come  off  the  body. 

TREATMENT. — Wash  the  body  with  soap  suds,  adding  a tablespoon- 
ful of  borax  to  every  quart  or  the  same  quantity  of  kerosene ; or,  apply  coal- 
tar  disinfectant  and  water,  a five  per  cent,  solution  or  even  stronger;  or,  a 
decoction  of  tobacco,  one  ounce  to  a quart.  Occasionally  dust  on  some  pow- 
dered sulphur.  If  you  are  sure  he  has  scab  use  the  treatment  prescribed  for 
scab  in  sheep.  Good  grooming  and  generous  feeding  are  helpful  after  the 
parasites  or  mites  are  killed. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  MANGE.— 

1.  Whale  Oil,  Oil  of  Tar  and  Sulphur. — To  6 ounces  of  whale  oil  add 
3 ounces  of  oil  of  tar  and  2 ounces  of  lac-sulphur;  mix  thoroughly.  Wash 
the  skin  thoroughly  and  apply  the  above  with  a hair  brush.  In  two  or  three 
days  repeat  the  washing  and  application. 

ERYSIPELAS. — (See“  Cattle  Department.”) 

ITCHING  TAIL. — This  is  an  itchy  condition  of  the  skin  at  the  root  or 
scalp  of  the  tail  and  is  generally  the  result  of  filth  or  some  parasitic  disease 
or  of  an  over-fed  horse  becoming  feverish  with  a heated  condition  of  the  skin, 
causing  the  animal  to  rub  against  almost  anything  he  can  reach.  One  of  the 
fipt  steps  is  to  give  the  horse  a mild  dose  of  cathartic  medicine.  Reduce 
his  supply  of  stimulating  food,  wash  the  tail  with  soap  and  water  every  day 
and  wet  the  scalp  with  a lotion  composed  of  baking  soda,  one  and  a half 
ounces  in  a quart  of  water;  or,  use  salt  in  place  of  the  soda;  or,  put  two 


TKK  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


f)8 


ounces  of  kerosene  into  a quart  of  soap  suds  and  apply  the  one  which  is  the 
most  convenient,  three  times  a day.  If  the  horse  has  pin  worms,  they  may 
cause  him  to  rub  and  if  so,  wash  the  bowel  out  with  soap  suds,  followed  by 
an  infusion  of  quassia  (two  ounces  of  chips  soaked  in  three  pints  of  hot 
water  for  two  hours).  By  dissolving  four  ounces  of  sugar  of  lead  and  one 
ounce  of  carbolic  acid  in  one-half  gallon  of  water  a useful  application  is 
made  for  an  itching  tail.  Good  grooming  and  cleanliness  and  keeping  up  the 
treatment  I have  prescribed  will  soon  effect  a cure. 

SURFEIT— NETTLE  RASH— URTICARIA.— This  is  an  eruptive  con- 
dition of  the  skin  in  which  there  are  small  or  moderate  sized  hard  nodules  or 
lumps.  Sometimes  they  come  in  the  form  of  a small  blister.  This  lumpy 
condition  of  the  skin  takes  place  as  a sort  of  effort  of  nature  to  throw  off 
either  a surplus  of  effete  material  or  a poison  of  some  kind. 

CAUSES. — Generally  the  cause  is  too  high  feeding  of  corn  or  other  fat- 
producing  grain.  It  sometimes  appears  at  shedding  time  and  during  the 
changeable  weather  of  spring  and  autumn.  Poorly  groomed  horses  suffer 
from  surfeit. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  skin  appears  to  swell  and  thicken  and  this  is  fol- 
lowed by  the  appearance  of  buds  or  bunches  and  the  skin  remains  thick  in 
several  places.  This  eruption  generally  appears  quickly  and  it  may  disappear 
rapidly,  but  generally  lasts  for  six  or  seven  days. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a cathartic  of  either  aloes  or  epsom  salts  and  keep 
the  bowels  moderately  active  by  giving  either  salts  or  rayr  linseed  oil.  Also 
give  a tablespoonful  of  saltpeter  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  soda  at  a 
dose  in  feed  three  times  a day.  Mixed  hay,  vegetables  and  grass  are  the  best 
foods  and  the  quantity  given  should  be  limited.  If  the  horse  itches,  put  one 
ounce  sulphuric  acid  in  a gallon  of  water  and  apply  to  itchy  parts  twice  a 
day ; or,  dissolve  an  ounce  of  baking  soda  in  a quart  of  water  and  apply  this 
lotion  two  or  three  times  a dav.  Salt  and  water  is  also  a good  remedy. 

TUMORS.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

SIT-FASTS— CALLOSITIES.— 

CAUSES. — These  bunches  are  very  common  under  the  collar.  They  are 
located  under  the  skin  and  are  caused  by  chafing  or  a bruise  bringing  on  a 
thickened  condition  of  the  skin  or  a fibrous  bunch  under  the  skin.  Badly 
fitting  collars  and  saddles  and  improper  care  of  the  shoulders  or  back  are 
the  most  common  causes  of  sit-fasts. 

TREATMENT. — In  my  practice  I never  waste  time  using  poultices  or 
caustics  in  the  treatment  of  chronic  sores  and  bunches  of  this  kind  but  I 
always  cut  them  out  and  treat  the  shoulder  as  any  common  wound  should 
be  treated.  After  the  operation  apply  any  good  home  healing  remedy  and 
rest  the  animal  if  possible,  but  if  you  are  obliged  to  work  him,  hollow  out  his 
collar  or  saddle  to  prevent  irritating  the  wound.  Apply  peroxide-hydrogen 
twice  a day;  ten  minutes  later  apply  any  of  the  following  healing  remedies; 
a two  per  cent,  solution  of  carbolic  acid;  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and 
twenty  parts  water;  or,  dissolve  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar  of  lead,  three 
ounces  sulphate  of  zinc  and  three  ounces  of  tannic  acid  in  a gallon  of  water 
and  apply  to  shoulders  or  back  three  times  a day.  There  are  many  other 
useful  remedies  you  may  apply. 

HIDE-BOUND. — This  is  not  a disease  though  it  is  often  thought  to  be. 
This  is  a mistaken  idea  for  it  is  usually  the  result  of  some  other  ailment  of 
a debilitating  nature  such  as  fevers  or  indigestion  or  the  feeding  of  badly 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  SKIN. 


59 


cured  or  non-nutritious  food ; or,  it  is  the  result  of  over  work,  causing  the 
animal  to  lose  flesh  and  of  course  the  hide  then  clings  to  the  bones  more 
closely  than  if  they  were  covered  with  fat.  The  skin  being  tight  on  the  body, 
the  animal  being  thin,  the  skin  dry  and  dirty  and  the  coat  usually  rough  gives 
the  animal  the  appearance  of  being  hide-bound,  hence  the  name. 

TREATMENT. — Increase  the  quantity  of  nutritious  food,  giving  tonics 
and  worm  remedies ; also  groom  the  animal  well  twice  a day  and  perhaps 
keep  him  in  a warmer  and  more  comfortable  stable.  He  will  then  soon 
commence  to  thrive  and  lose  the  appearance  of  being  hide-bound.  Give  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  ground  gentian,  one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  copperas,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  ground  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  cinchona 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  baking  soda  at  a dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times 
a day. 

FROSTBITES.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

BURNS  AND  SCALDS.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

LICE. — There  are  two  kinds  of  lice  that  usually  attack  the  horse — blood- 
suckers with  narrow  heads  and  long  trunk-like  sucking  tubes  and  bird  lice  with 
very  large  broad  heads  and  biting  jaws. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  state  of  lousiness  is  usually  seen  in  poor,  half-starved 
young  animals  or  very  old  ones.  Debility  seems  to  be  the  predisposing  cause, 
rendering  the  animal  a proper  subject  for  the  propagation  and  development 
of  these  parasites. 

TREATMENT. — The  best  treatment  is  to  clip  the  hair  and  then  wash 
the  animal  with  a decoction  of  stavesacre,  one  ounce  of  the  powdered  seeds  to 
a pint  of  warm  water ; or,  a solution  of  one  part  tobacco  to  twenty  parts 
water ; or,  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  to  twenty  parts  water.  Or,  apply 
kerosene  emulsion  which  is  made  by  mixing  one  quart  of  kerosene  and  one 
quart  of  rain  water  and  adding  one  pound  of  good  soap.  When  dissolved, 
pour  from  one  bucket  to  another  until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  add  ten  quarts 
more  of  water  and  bathe  the  horse  with  this  mixture  every  day  or  two  until 
a few  applications  have  been  made.  The  sides  of  the  stall  and  the  harness  as 
well  as  the  curry  combs  and  brushes  should  be  treated  with  an  application 
of  the  same.  I have  also  applied,  with  good  results,  one  part  carbolic  acid 
and  thirty  or  forty  parts  of  water.  A small  quantity  of  mercurial  ointment 
rubbed  into  the  mane  and  root  of  tail  has  a good  effect.  Good  grooming 
and  plenty  of  good  food  is  important  for  lice  seem  to  select  for  their  victims 
the  weak,  thin  animals. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LICE.— 

1.  Benzine. — Sponge  the  parts  with  benzine  and  repeat  in  a week  to 
kill  any  that  may  have  hatched  from  the  nits  in  the  interval. 

2.  Sulphur  Ointment. — Sulphur  ointment  will  kill  lice  on  horses. 

3.  Tar  Water. — Sponge  the  horse  with  tar  water  and  repeat  in  about 
a week  to  kill  any  that  have  hatched  later  from  the  nits. 

4.  Insect  Powder. — Dust  the  horse  well  with  insect  powder  and  then 
blanket  him  fqr  an  hour  or  two.  Examine  again  in  a week  and  if  any  more 
have  hatched  the  treatment  should  be  repeated. 

•5.  Coal  Oil,  Soap  Suds  and  Vinegar. — Wash  the  horse  with  one  part 
coal  oil  and  five  parts  soap  suds  twice  a week.  To  kill  lice  nits  apply  one 
part  cider  vinegar  and  two  parts  water. 

WARTS. — Warts  are  abnormal  growths  of  the  skin  and  occur  on  any 


60 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


part  of  the  body;  however,  they  are  most  frequently  found  about  the  head, 
neck,  belly  and  sheath. 

CAUSES. — Medical  authorities  are  somewhat  divided  in  opinion  as  to  the 
real  cause  of  warts;  however,  a slight  injury  or  irritation  of  the  skin  may  start 
a warty  growth.  Highly  fed  animals  appear  to  suffer  most  from  warts,  the 
skin  becoming  affected  from  blood  trouble  or  stomach  disorders.  We  some- 
times meet  with  certain  kinds  of  warts  that  seem  to  be  contagious, 

TREATMENT. — If  overfeeding  has  produced  them  it  is  well  to  cut 
down  the  animal’s  allowance  or  change  from  stimulating  food  to  a more  cool- 
ing and  laxative  diet.  I have  known  a run  to  grass  to  seemingly  cause  them 
to  go  away.  Every  wart  that  has  a well  defined  neek  should  be  cut  off  with 
either  a knife  or  an  ecraseur ; or,  they  should  be  burned  off  with  a knife- 
shaped iron  at  white  heat.  By  burning  them  it  stops  bleeding  and  often 
kills  the  roots.  They  can  also  be  removed  by  ligaturing;  however,  I do  not 
like  this  method.  Now,  there  are  many  different  remedies  that  will  take 
them  off,  such  as  castor  oil,  acetic  acid,  chromic  acid,  arsenic  ointment,  nitrate 
of  silver  and  salicylic  acid.  It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  they  are  usually 
not  deep  rooted,  principally  confined  to  the  skin,  and  are  easily  cut  out  but 
sometimes  are  inclined  to  bleed.  Applying  tincture  of  chloride  of  iron  or 
burning  with  a hot  iron  will  quickly  stop  the  bleeding;  or,  tie  the  blood 
vessel  with  a silk  thread. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  REMOVING  WARTS.— 

1.  Dry  or  Seed  Warts. — Take  equal  parts  of  calomel,  copperas  and 
alum.  The  first  two  should  be  pulverized  together  and  the  alum  should  be 
burned  and  then  mixed  with  the  other  ingredients.  The  wart  should  be 
scraped  with  a knife  until  raw  and  the  mixture  applied  as  often  as  the  scab 
comes  off  until  the  wart  is  entirely  removed. 

2.  Bluestone. — Clip  or  cut  off  the  wart  and  cauterize  the  raw  surface 
with  powdered  bluestone. 

3.  Acetic  Acid. — Apply  strong  acetic  acid  to  the  warts  until  they  are 
removed.  Do  not  let  this  run  upon  the  surrounding  skin. 

4 Washing  Soda. — Dissolve  an  ounce  of  washing  soda  in  two  ounces 
of  water  and  wet  the  warts  with  this  solution. 

5.  Castor  Oil. — Apply  castor  oil  to  the  warts  twice  a day,  or  apply 
salicylic  acid. 

6.  Sulphur. — Give  a teaspoonful  of  sulphur  at  a dose  in  feed  once  a day. 
This  will  generally  take  off  warts, 


DISEASES  AND  INJURIES  OF  THE 
EYE  AND  EAR. 

(Including  Sore  Eyes,  Worm  in  the  Eye,  Cataract,  Moon  Blindness,  Etc.) 


SIMPLE  OPHTHALMIA— SORE  EYES— INFLAMMATION  OF 
THE  EYES. — Simple  ophthalmia  is  really  an  inflammation  of  the  eye,  or  of 
the  eyeball  and  is  sometimes  confined  to  the  conjunctiva  (mucous  membrane 
of  the  eye). 

CAUSES. — It  is  very  often  the  result  of  an  injury,  a speck  of  sand  get- 
ting into  the  eye  and  setting  up  inflammation,  stable  gases  and  sudden  changes 
of  weather.  However,  it  generally  results  from  injury  or  from  a foreign  body 
getting  into  the  eye  and  remaining  there. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are — flowing  tears,  swollen  lids,  red  and 
retracted  eyes,  dilated  pupils  and  blinking  when  facing  a bright  light.  I might 
say  that  in  this  ailment  the  eye  is  much  more  inflamed  than  in  periodic 
ophthalmia. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all  a very  careful  examination  should  be  made 
and  if  possible  the  cause  should  be  removed.  We  find  the  disease  existing  in 
three  forms,  depending  on  how  long  the  eye  has  been  sore.  First,  we  have 
an  acute  inflammation  and  if  this  is  not  subdued  a sub-acute  inflammation 
follows  and  if  this  lasts  long  it  becomes  chronic.  Now  the  first  step  in  the 
line  of  treatment  should  be  to  reduce  the  inflammation  and  this  is  generally 
best  done  by  applying  either  hot  or  cold  water  and  these  applications  should 
be  kept  up  constantly  for  at  least  one  or  two  hours  at  a time  and  it  is  well 
to  keep  in  mind  that  hot  water  in  winter  and  cold  in  summer  is  the  way  to 
use  water  on  inflamed  parts.  Drop  three  grains  of  sulphate  of  zinc  and  one 
grain  of  sulphate  of  atropia  into  one  ounce  of  rain  water  and  apply  three 
times  a day.  Also,  feed  no  grain  but  give  bran  mashes,  vegetables  or  grass. 
A dark  stable  is  the  best  and  any  eye  wash  that  is  good  for  man  is  equally 
good  for  animals  for  their  eyes  are  alike.  I very  often  give  one-dram  doses 
of  iodide  of  potassium  internally  with  good  results  and  this  always  helps 
to  clear  the  eyeball.  I also  blow  some  calomel  into  the  eye  daily  and  give 
a few  grains  in  the  feed  with  good  results,  if  the  case  seems  to  stand  still 
and  not  show  any  signs  of  mending.  Always  remember  that  dust  and  bright 
light  irritate  the  eyes. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  INFLAMMATION  OF  THE 

eyes.— 

1.  Witch  Hazel. — Bathe  the  eyes  freely  with  extract  of  witch  hazel. 

2.  Lotion  for  Eyes. — To  4 ounces  of  water  add  1 ounce  of  glycerine, 
and  one-half  dram  of  sulphate  of  zinc.  Put  4 or  5 drops  into  the  inflamed 
eyes  morning  and  evening. 

3.  Sugar  of  Lead  and  Belladonna. — To  a pint  of  boiled  rain  water  add 
30  grains  of  sugar  of  lead  and  a teaspoonful  of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna. 
Keep  a soft  cloth  wet  with  this  and  hang  over  the  eyes.  This  is  for  in- 
flamed eyelids. 

4.  Borax. — Use  60  grains  of  borax  to  a quart  of  boiled  water,  keep  a 
cloth  wet  with  this  and  hang  over  the  eyes.  It  is  also  important  that  you 
keep  the  bowels  in  a laxative  condition. 

61 


62 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


INFLAMED  EYES— CONTAGIOUS  OPHTHALMIA.— (See  “ Cattle 
Department.”) 

CATARACT. — A cataract  is  either  a partial  or  complete  opacity  of  the 
crystalline  lens  or  its  capsule  and  may  be  either  the  result  of  injury  or  a 
sequel  to  other  diseases,  such  as  periodic  ophthalmia.  Cataracts  vary  in 
shape,  size  and  situation.  Only  the  capsule  may  be  involved,  or  both  capsule 
and  lens,  and  sometimes  only  the  lens.  It  is  seen  at  birth  in  some  animals 
and  is  called  congenital  cataract.  When  the  whole  lens  is  affected  the  eye- 
ball shows  some  atrophy  or  wasting  and  the  opening  of  the  pupil  becomes 
large  and  loses  its  elliptical  form.  In  order  to  detect  a small  cataract  place 
the  animal  in  a dark  place  and  use  artificial  light  such  as  a candle.  Or,  if 
you  know  how  to  use  an  ophthalmoscope  you  will  very  readily  detect  a cataract 
if  there  be  any.  The  test  is  always  made  most  easily  after  belladonna  or 
atropia  has  been  applied  to  the  eye.  However,  it  is  not  generally  necessary 
to  test  this  way.  By  facing  the  horse  out  of  a barn  door  and  placing  your 
hat  over  his  eye,  letting  it  remain  there  for  a few  minutes  and  then  removing 
it  quickly,  the  different  effects  light  will  have  on  the  well  and  diseased  eye 
will  be  marked,  especially  on  the  pupillary  openings.  Cataract  usually  de- 
velops slowly  but  I have  known  it  to  develop  in  twenty  days  and  I might  say 
there  is  no  remedy  on  account  of  surgical  work  being  inadvisable  in  all  cases 
of  cataracts  in  animals.  Of  course  an  operation  is  advisable  in  man  because 
he  can  wear  glasses. 

CONJUNCTIVITIS— CATARRH  OF  THE  EYE.~(See  “ Cattle  De- 
partment.”) 

IRITIS — RETINITIS. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  eye,  especially 
that  portion  which  surrounds  the  pupil  and  gives  color  to  the  eye.  It  is 
usually  brought  on  by  blows  or  extreme  changes  of  light  and  darkness.  It  is 
also  the  result  of  facing  fierce  storms  and  cold  wind  and  is  no  doubt  some- 
times the  result  of  constitutional  disturbances,  especially  those  of  the  diges- 
tive organs. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are  like  those  of  superficial  ophthalmia 
but  there  is  more  constitutional  disturbance  with  loss  of  appetite,  increased 
heat  of  body  and  considerable  retraction  of  the  eye  into  its  socket.  The  haw  is 
drawn  up,  the  mucous  membrane  is  inflamed,  the  aqueous  humor  becomes 
muddy  with  white  floating  flakes  in  the  anterior  chamber  and  frequently  a 
little  pus  settles  in  the  lower  part.  As  the  disease  advances  a white  speck 
or  cloud  appears  in  the  lens  behind  the  pupil  and  iris. 

TREATMENT. — Place  the  animal  in  a dark  stable  with  pure,  dry  air. 
Give  a full  dose  of  cathartic  medicine  and  some  saltpeter  in  his  drinking 
water,  also  place  some  wet  cloths  over  his  eyes.  Apply  a saturated  solution 
of  boric  acid  to  the  eyes  five  times  a day.  This  is  made  by  dissolving  all 
the  boric  acid  the  water  will  take  up ; therefore,  there  is  no  danger  of  making 
this  solution  too  strong.  If  the  eyes  are  painful  add  some  belladonna.  Feed 
the  horse  a cooling,  laxative  diet  and  give  one-half  dram  iodide  of  potassium 
and  two  drams  Fowler’s  solution  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day.  If  the 
eye  fails  to  clear,  blow  a little  calomel  into  it  once  or  twice  a day  and  give 
twenty-five  grains  of  calomel  at  a dose  twice  a week  for  three  weeks. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  HAW  (Membrana  Nictitans).— (See  Cat- 
tle Department.”) 

WORM  IN  THE  EYE. — Worm  in  the  eye  is  not  a common  ailment  in 
this  country:  however,  I have  met  with  more  than  a dozen  cases.  It  is,  how- 
ever, a cominoii  affection  in  some  hot  countries  such  as  India. 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  EYE  AND  EAR. 


63 


CAUSES. — Through  the  horse  drinking  stagnant  water  is  the  manner 
in  which  the  ova  or  egg  makes  its  way  into  the  circulation  and  through  the 
blood  vessels  into  the  eye. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  eye  is  dull.  On  examination  a thread-like  body  is 
seen  moving  about  in  the  eye  and  if  allowed  to  grow  it  will  produce  loss 
of  sight. 

TREATMENT. — A surgical  operation  is  always  successful.  Puncture 
through  the  cornea  and  allow  the  aqueous  humor  and  worm  to  escape. 

PERIODIC  OPHTHALMIA— MOON  BLINDNESS.— Periodic  oph- 
thalmia is  a constitutional  affection  of  the  eye  and  is  known  by  many  differ- 
ent names  such  as  “ moon-blindness,”  moon-eyes  ” and  “ constitutional  oph- 
thalmia,” and  it  has  also  been  called  “ odontalgia  ” and  we  sometimes  hear  it 
called  “ hereditary  ophthalmia  ” and  “ specific  ophthalmia.”  Fortunately, 
this  ailment  is  not  nearly  so  common  as  it  was  twenty  years  ago. 

CAUSES. — Perhaps  it  might  be  as  well  for  me  to  say  that  the  veterinary 
profession  is  pretty  well  agreed  that  the  cause  is  not  known ; however,  certain 
exciting  causes  may  have  a*  tendency  to  bring  it  on,  but  it  seems  to  lurk  in 
the  body  ready  to  break  out  when  favorable  conditions  exist.  Many  writers 
believe  the  cause  to  be  a germ  of  some  kind.  . Dark,  badly  ventilated  stables, 
poor  food,  extreme  heat  or  cold,  all  have  a tendency  to  bring  it  on.  Over 
exertion  and  over  heating  have  been  known  to  cause  it.  There  are  many 
exciting  causes  of  periodic  ophthalmia. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  attack  is  generally  sudden,  the  eye  is  sensitive  to 
bright  light  and  always  retracted,  the  eyelid  is  dropped,  the  cornea  dim  and 
the  eye  dull,  and  as  soon  as  one  eye  becomes  affected  the  other  generally 
gets  sore.  One  attack  seems  to  follow  another.  After  each  attack  the  eye- 
ball atrophies  more  or  less  and  generally  this  disease  sooner  or  later  term- 
inates in  loss  of  sight. 

TREATMENT. — The  very  best  that  can  be  done  in  the  line  of  treatment 
for  this  ailment  is  to  relieve  the  disease  and  this  is  perhaps  best  done  by 
keeping  the  bowels  open  and  rather  active  by  giving  salts,  oil  or  aloes  to 
purge  the  anim.al  if  you  believe  it  necessary.  Place  the  horse  in  a dark  stall 
and  give  a tablespoonful  of  nitrate  of  potash  at  a dose  in  the  feed  or  water 
twice  a day  until  the  eyes  become  less  inflamed.  Put  three  grains  of  sulphate 
of  atropia  in  one  ounce  of  rain  water  and  apply  twice  a day ; or,  apply  3 grains 
acetate  of  lead,  twenty  drops  tincture  of  opium  and  one  ounce  of  water  twice 
daily. 

CANCER  IN  THE  EYE— FUNGUS  HiEMATODES.— (See  ‘‘Cattle 
Department.”) 

AMAUROSIS— GLASS  EYE— GUTTA  SERENA.— (See  “Cattle  De- 
partment.”) 

FOREIGN  BODIES  IN  THE  EYE.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

DISLOCATION  OF  THE  EYEBALL.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

INJURIES  TO  THE  EYELIDS.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  INTERNAL  EAR— OTITIS.— (See 
“ Cattle  Department.”) 

DISEASES  OF  THE  CARTILAGE  OF  THE  EAR.— (See  “ Cattle  De- 
partment.”) 

ABSCESS  OF  THE  EAR.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

FOREIGN  BODIES  IN  THE  EAR.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

LACERATED  EARS.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 


DISEASES  OF  THE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 

(Including  Lockjaw,  Hydrophobia,  Blind  Staggers,  Stringhalt,  Sunstroke, 

Paralysis,  Etc.) 


TETANUS-LOCKJAW  . — Tetanus  is  not  a common  disease  in  cold 
climates ; however,  it  is  quite  prevalent  in  hot  countries  where  the  soil  is 
fertile  and  wounds  are  not  treated  properly. 

CAUSES. — The  tetanus  bacillus  makes  its  way  into  the  body  through  a 
skin  or  flesh  abrasion  or  wound.  The  most  common  abodes  for  this  germ 
are  in  road  dust,  garden  earth,  barnyards,  stable  floors  or  in  any  fertile  soil. 
Therefore,  one  can  readily  understand  why  a wound  situaied  in  the  foot, 
leg  or  lower  part  of  the  body  is  very  convenient  for  the  bacillus  to  gain  en- 
trance into  the  body  and  cause  lockjaw. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  mild  cases  it  is  not  always  easy  to  make  a correct 
diagnosis.  However,  in  severe  cases  it  is  easy,  for  the  clinical  symptoms 
differ  from  all  others.  It  is  safe  to  say  that  nearly  all  the  muscles  of  the 
body  are  implicated,  some  of  them  much  more  so  than  others.  The  muscles 
of  the  legs  are  always  stiff,  the  muscles  of  the  head  and  neck  are  the  first  to 
be  noticed,  and  the  nose  is  always  poked  out.  The  head  and  tail  are  usually 
elevated,  the  animal  is  easily  excited  and  trembles  some  and  the  membrana 
nictitans  (haw)  flashes  over  the  eye  whenever  the  animal  is  excited.  The 
animal  stands  with  the  forelegs  extended  forward  and  the  hind  ones  back  of 
the  body  and  generally  straddles  as  though  afraid  of  falling.  All  animals 
suffering  from  lockjaw  present  an  anxious  expression,  move  stiffly,  have  a 
quick  pulse  when  excited  and  the  jaws  are  generally  either  partially  or 
totally  closed.  The  animal  almost  always  takes  the  standing  position  and 
retains  it,  his  appetite  is  good,  bowels  costive,  urine  scanty  and  highly 
colored.  Whenever  the  animal  lies  down  before  the  muscles  are  relaxed  nearly 
all  the  symptoms  become  aggravated  and  it  is  not  unusual  for  them  to. grow 
more  nervous  and  struggle  until  they  die,  but  in  mild  cases  they  often  retain 
the  standing  position  for  several  weeks  until  they  have  made  a recovery. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  safe  to  say  that  nearly  every  drug  and  anti-toxic 
serum  known  to  veterinarians  and  physicians  have  been  tried  and  failed  as  a 
remedy  for  severe  cases  of  tetanus.  However,  the  disease  can  generally  be 
prevented  by  immunizing  the  patient  with  anti-toxic  serum  (tetanin)  which 
will  immunize  the  animal.  Furthermore,  wounds  in  the  lower  part  of 
the  body  should  be  covered  with  absorbent  cotton  or  oakum  or  a dressing 
that  will  make  it  impossible  for  the  admission  or  entrance  of  the  tetanus 
bacillus  to  the  circulation  or  body  of  the  wounded  animal.  Nearly 
all  veterinarians  are  equipped  to  immunize  animals  which  have  nail  punc- 
tures and  wounds  in  the  lower  part  of  the  body ; besides,  the  treatment 
is  not  expensive  and  it  is  certainly  cheap  insurance.  Of  course  this  treat- 
ment is  not  curative  after  the  disease  has  once  become  established.  A horse 
suffering  with  tetanus  should  be  kept  in  a dark  stable  which  is  free  from 
noise.  He  should  be  fed  gruel  and  liberally  supplied  with  water.  The  water 
and  feed  should  be  put  into  a tub  and  set  about  three  and  one-half  feet  high 
for  the  horse  is  unable  to  lower  the  head  much.  Give  the  horse  one  dram  of 

64 


NERVOUS  SYSTEM  OE  THE  HORSE. 


* 


HORSE— DISEASES  OE  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


65 


solid  extract  of  Ixdladonna  at  a dose  three  or  four  times  a day,  either  by 
mouth  or  by  injection  into  the  bowel.  In  the  early  stages  it  is  good  practice 
to  give  a cathartic.  If  the  wound  can  be  discovered  apply  antiseptics  such 
as  hydrogen-peroxide,  carbolic  acid,  iodoform,  boric  acid,  bichloride  of  mer- 
cury, etc.  There  are  many  drugs  that  appear  to  have  a soothing  effect,  such 
as  bromide  of  potassium  and  chloral  hydrate.  When  the  spasms  are  intense 
they  can  be  relieved  by  inhalations  of  chloroform.  However,  this  relief  is 
usually  only  temporary.  As  a rule  the  same  man  should  look  after  the  horse 
during  his  entire  sickness  as  strangers  usually  excite  him.  It  is  important  to 
feed  nutritious  food  and  green  fodder  is  the  best.  Whenever  a recovery  takes 
place  it  is  always  slow  and  it  is  unwise  to  put  a horse  to  work  too  soon 
after  he  has  had  tetanus. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LOCKJAW.— 

1.  Preventive. — Wet  wounds  lightly  with  turpentine  and  they  will  not 
be  the  cause  of  lockjaw. 

2.  Nux  Vomica  and  Belladonna. — Give  one-half  teaspoonful  of  tincture 
of  nux  vomica  and  a teaspoonful  of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna  at  a dose  three 
times  a day.  This  is  said  to  cure  lockjaw. 

RABIES — HYDROPHOBIA. — Rabies  is  not  a very  common  disease  in 
the  horse.  It  is  usually  the  result  of  a bite  of  a mad  dog  and  the  disease 
never  has  a spontaneous  origin,  but  it  is  often  very  difficult  to  trace  the 
source  of  infection.  All,  or  nearly  all,  of  the  lower  animals,  if  bitten,  are 
liable  to  this  disease.  It  is  called  hydrophobia  by  many  people  on  account  of 
the  animal’s  inability  to  drink  water.  The  virus  or  poison  no  doubt  exists 
in  every  part  of  the  body,  especially  in  the  saliva,  spinal  cord  and  brain  but 
after  death  it  soon  ceases  to  be  dangerous.  It  is  perhaps  true  that  the  first 
bites  from  a rabid  dog  are  possibly  the  most  dangerous  and  it  is  also  true 
that  man  is  not  so  easily  infected  as  are  other  animals.  I knew  a woman  to 
die  of  hydrophobia  from  allowing  a mad  dog  to  lick  her  hand,  all  going  to 
show  that  the  saliva  is  loaded  with  the  virus.  I also  knew  a man  who  caught 
the  disease  while  skinning  a dog. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a change  in  the  disposition,  dullness  and  an  in- 
clination to  hide  away  in  a dark  quiet  place.  The  patient  startles  easily,  is 
a little  flighty  and  grows  dull  but  rem.ains  quiet  only  a short  time.  Those 
affected  are  inclined  to  eat  pieces  of  wood  and  bits  of  coal  and  dirt.  Later 
they  become  irritable,  often  inclined  to  snap  and  bite  but  they  generally  will 
not  go  far  out  of  their  path  to  bite  a person,  but  will  chase  dogs  wherever 
they  see  them.  The  head  and  tail  are  always  carried  low.  The  disease 
assumes  one  of  two  forms ; the  furious  or  the  dumb  and  paralytic.  In  the 
latter  form  the  lower  jaw  of  the  dog  drops,  remaining  so  unless  spasms  come 
on  or  allowed  to  worry  another  dog.  The  furious  form  is  more  dangerous 
for  the  dog  will  often  bite  you  without  a moment’s  warning.  A mad  dog,  if 
allowed  to  run  loose,  will  often  travel  ten  or  fifteen  miles,  return  to  his  old 
kennel,  lie  down  and  die  from  exhaustion.  The  mad  dog  always  loses  his 
voice,  soon  has  trouble  swallowing  food  or  water  and  dies  of  paralysis. 

TREATMENT. — No  remedy — but  the  Pasteur  treatment  will  prevent 
this  disease  in  man. 

VERTIGO-BLIND  STAGGERS— FALLING  FITS— MEGRIMS— 
CONGESTION  OF  THE  BRAIN. — This  is  a horse  disease  characterized 
usually  by  sudden  and  temporary  loss  of  sensation  and  voluntary  motion, 
5 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


()() 

generally  with  considerable  trembling  without  the  general  spasms  of  epi- 
lepsy. 

CAUSES. — This  is  very  often  the  result  of  an  undue  accumulation  of 
blood  in  the  brain,  producing  congestion,  and  it  may  be  due  to  heart  trouble, 
extreme  heat,  excitement,  the  giving  of  large  doses  of  stimulants,  over-exer- 
tion, badly  fitting  collars  which  obstruct  the  return  of  blood  from  the  head  to 
the  body  or  it  may  be  caused  by  tumors  in  the  brain  or  a tumor  or  abscess 
interfering  with  the  circulation  back  from  the  brain.  It  is  also  brought  on 
l.)y  digestive  disturbance  and  is  quite  common  in  overly  fleshy  horses. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  usually  slows  his  gait,  throws  up  his  head, 
shivers,  staggers,  and  he  may  fall  and  sometimes  he  will  plunge  and  run 
away.  The  eyes  are  staring,  respiration  usually  quickened  and  he  may  stand 
with  legs  braced  and  in  a few  minutes  be  apparently  all  right  and  go  on  his 
journey  as  though  nothing  had  happened.  In  other  cases  he  may  show  the 
effects  of  this  attack  for  a week  but  if  the  ailment  is  due  to  organic  heart 
trouble  or  disease  of  the  blood  vessels  of  the  brain  he  may  show  a dumpish 
condition  without  any  fitty  condition  and  die  without  showing  any  alarming 
symptoms. 

TREATMENT. — Remove  the  cause  if  possible,  apply  cold  water  to 
head,  reduce  his  food  supply,  give  a cathartic  of  either  aloes  or  oil  and  if  he 
is  fleshy,  reduce  his  weight.  If  it  comes  on  because  of  want  of  exercise  do 
not  allow  him  to  remain  idle.  It  is  always  good  judgment  to  stop  the  animal 
when  the  attack  is  coming  on.  In  acute  cases  they  very  often  recover  but  in 
chronic  cases  they  seldom  get  over  it  and  remain  well  without  showing  dizzi- 
ness, fits  or  staggers.  Blood  letting  gives  relief.  Giving  chloral  hydrate  or 
bromide  of  potash  and  a laxative  diet  help  every  case. 

SUNSTROKE— HEAT  EXHAUSTION.— Horses  that  fall  from  heat 
exhaustion  or  that  suffer  from  what  is  commonly  called  “ sunstroke  ” are 
usually  out  of  condition  otherwise  or  they . probably  would  not  have  been 
affected  much  by  the  heat.  Horses  suffering  from  indigestion  or  those  who 
have  a heavy  coat  of  hair  or  who  have  sluggish  kidneys  and  very  little  action 
in  the  glands  of  the  skin,  and  those  that  are  fleshy  are  usually  the  victims. 
Horses  that  are  fed  light  and  exercised  regularly  and  whose  bowels  and  kid- 
neys are  acting  freely  and  which  perspire  moderately  are  usually  exempt  from 
these  attacks. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  sunstroke  the  horse  usually  falls  and  appears  ex- 
hausted. In  heat  exhaustion  perspiration  checks,  the  horse  pants  and  staggers, 
the  skin  is  dry  and  the  mucous  membranes  of  eyes  and  nostrils  are  red  and  his 
temperature  goes  up. 

TREATMENT. — Place  the  animal  in  a cool,  comfortable,  shaded  place 
and  apply  cold  water  freely  to  both  the  head  and  body.  Give  one-half  pint  of 
whiskey  and  one  ounce  of  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia,  and  sometimes  add 
a tablespoonful  or  two  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre,  and  then  add  a pint  or 
more  of  cold  water  and  give  as  a drench  and  repeat  in  an  hour  or  two  if 
necessary.  In  treating  an  ailment  of  this  kind  it  is  important  to  place  the 
horse  in  a cool,  comfortable  stable  or  under  a tree  or  tent  and  cool  the  surface 
of  the  body,  at  the  same  time  giving  stimulants. 

STRINGHALT. — Stringhalt  is  a spasmodic  jerking  and  a sort  of  regular 
movement  of  one  or  both  hind  legs  and  is  perhaps  caused  by  some  lesion 
or  abnormal  condition  of  a nerve  or  perhaps  of  the  spinal  cord.  It  is,  no 
doubt,  caused  by  some  irregular  supply  of  nerve  influence  to  the  extensor  and 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


67 


flexor  muscles  or  tendons  of  the  limb.  Elowever,  it  is  difficult  to  explain 
just  why  this  irregular  distribution  of  nerve  supply  comes  about.  In  some 
cases  where  we  know  there  is  nerve  pressure  it  can  be  accounted  for,  but  in 
a majority  of  cases  it  must  be  admitted  that  the  cause  is  not  known  and  the 
disease  not  well  understood. 

SYMPTOMS. — Whenever  the  animal  is  moved  forward  or  suddenly 
backed  it  will  show  an  irregular  jerking  motion  of  the  limb.  This  is  always 
noticeable  in  bad  cases,  but  in  some  mild  cases  the  animal  may  move  quite 
a distance  before  showing  it  and  I have  known  cases  where  the  animal  had  to 
be  turned  from  side  to  side  or  backed  up  quickly  before  they  showed  it.  Of 
course  an  animal  is  more  likely  to  show  it  when  trotted.  Stringhalt  may 
follow  exposure  to  severe  cold  weather  and  sometimes  follows  blistering  or 
firing  for  ring-bone.  It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  heat  palliates  or  relieves 
every  case  of  stringhalt.  Some  horses  show  it  in  the  winter  but  not  in  the 
summer. 

TREATMENT. — In  the  majority  of  cases  the  disease  should  be  con- 
sidered incurable.  Removing  a section  of  the  tendon  under  the  hock  (pero- 
neal tanotomy),  hov/ever,  or  removing  a section  of  the  nerve  high  up,  have 
given  me  fairly  good  results  and  these  two  operations  are  well  worth  the 
trial.  In  an  extremely  bad  case  where  the  animal  jerks  the  feet  up  to 
the  belly,  does  not  improve  with  exercise  and  does  not  show  it  less  in  warm 
weather,  it  is  hardly  worth  while  to  operate.  Peroneal  tanotomy  is  a very 
simple  operation  and  can  be  performed  without  throwing  the  horse. 

PARALYSIS. — Paralysis  is  loss  of  voluntary  motion  with  or  without 
sensation  and  is  either  partial  or  complete,  usually  affecting  one  part,  the 
whole  side  or  hind  quarters.  It  may  be  local  and  affect  only  a muscle  or  two 
as  we  sometimes  find  in  the  lip.  Paralysis  sometimes  follows  gastric  irrita- 
tion bringing  on  fits  and  loss  of  power  of  the  hind  quarters.  Or,  if  the  trouble 
be  in  cord  near  the  head,  the  paralysis  may  affect  the  whole  body.  We  have 
paralysis  resulting  from  brain  disease;  also,  tumors  in  the  brain  sometimes 
cause  loss  of  power,  followed  by  death.  Paralysis  sometimes  results  from 
sunstroke  or  concussion  from  blows  or  from  falling  and  jumping  with  weight 
on  the  back ; or,  it  sometimes  occurs  when  throwing  a horse  down.  In  these 
latter  cases  the  vertebrae  or  bones  of  the  back  have  either  been  fractured  or 
displaced,  causing  spinal  cord  pressure  and  loss  of  power.  A paralysis  may 
also  come  from  violent  muscular  contraction  while  resisting  when  he  is 
secured  for  some  surgical  operation.  Tuberculosis  affecting  the  spinal  cord, 
tumors  in  that  region  pressing  on  the  cord  and  a softening  of  the  cord,  all 
lead  to  paralysis.  Following  oste-porosis  (big-head)  where  the  bones  en- 
large and  honey  comb  or  the  bones  of  the  back  anchylose,  the  back  is  easily 
broken  and  of  course  when  this  occurs  paralysis  always  follows.  We  have 
still  another  form  of  partial  loss  of  power  where  the  animal  goes  with  a sort 
of  staggering  gait  and  weaves  from  side  to  side.  This  kind  may  be  the  result 
of  slight  accident  or  some  error  in  habits  or  food  supply.  There  is  also  a 
paralysis  of  the  lips  caused  from  some  injury  to  the  brain  or  some  interfer- 
ence in  the  nerve  supply  to  the  lip.  Horses  also  have  a paralysis  of  the  tail 
which  is  generally  the  result  of  an  injury  followed  by  wasting  of  the  muscles 
of  the  tail.  These  are  unsatisfactory  cases  to  treat. 

TREATMENT. — Treatment  of  paralysis  is  by  no  means  always  satis- 
factory. However,  there  are  certain  rules  which  must  be  followed  in  order  to 
assist  nature  in  bringing  about  a recovery.  If  there  be  any  displacement  of  a 


68 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK-. 


bone,  put  it  back  in  place  as  quickly  as  possible  and  try  to  keep  it  there.  The 
bowels  and  kidneys  should  be  kept  active  and  the  general  health  of  the  animal 
looked  after.  The  food  supply  should  be  nutritious  and  easily  digested.  The 
weak  parts  should  be  stimulated  with  some  good  home  liniment  such  as 
equal  parts  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and  sweet  oil.  Apply  this  to  the 
affected  parts  daily ; also,  give  nux  vomica  or  strychnia,  which  latter  has  the 
same  effect  but  is  more  active.  In  some  cases  the  different  preparations  of 
iodine  have  a good  effect  and  produce  good  results.  Many  horses  should  be 
placed  in  slings  and  kept  there  until  they  recover  from  paralysis.  This  should 
be  done  on  account  of  their  weakness  and  inability  to  get  up  and  down.  They 
wear  out  their  strength  struggling  to  get  up.  Besides,  the  bowels  and 
kidneys  act  better  when  the  animal  is  kept  in  an  upright  position.  The 
horse  thrives  better  in  this  position  and  of  course  must  recover  more 
rapidly  if  thriving  than  if  failing  in  health.  It  is  also  very  important  in  the 
treatment  of  paralysis  to  feed  a good  quality  of  food.  Feed  some  vegetables 
but  no  musty  or  badly  cured  fodder.  It  may  be  necessary  for  you  to  blister 
and  if  so  apply  cerate  of  cantharides,  or  biniodide  of  mercury,  one  part  to 
six  or  eight  parts  of  lard,  once  every  week  or  ten  days. 

APOPLEXY. — Apoplexy  is  generally  the  result  of  stagnation  of  the  cir- 
culation of  blood  in  the  brain,  and  there  may  also  be  a rupture  of  some  small 
blood  vessel  or  blood  vessels,  allowing  the  blood  to  clot  and  produce  undue 
pressure  on  the  brain. 

CAUSES. — It  is  very  often  the  result  of  some  error  in  feeding,  seldom 
attacking  thin  horses.  It  is  not  a common  ailment  of  the  horse.  The  dog 
and  pig  are  often  affected.  It  is,  perhaps,  brought  on  by  overfeeding  which 
produces  too  much  blood  and  weakens  the  walls  of  the  blood  vessels.  Fat 
animals  seem  to  be  the  ones  most  likely  to  become  affected. 

SYMPTOMS. — Apoplexy  comes  on  suddenly  and  as  a rule  the  animal  is 
unconscious.  The  pupil  of  the  eye  is  dilated  and  breathing  is  labored.  In 
some  cases  only  part  of  the  body  seems  to  be  affected.  Post-mortem  gener- 
ally reveals  some  congestion  of  the  brain,  a ruptured  blood  vessel  or  extrav- 
acation of  blood  that  has  oozed  through  the  wall  of  a vein  or  artery. 

TREATMENT. — If  a fleshy  horse  is  affected  he  should  be  bled,  taking 
away  eight  or  ten  quarts.  Apply  cold  packs  to  the  head,  give  bromide  of 
potash  in  half-ounce  doses  every  three  or  four  hours  or  hypo-sulphite  of 
soda,  1-ounce  doses  three  times  a day  in  food  or  water.  Also  reduce  his 
food  supply  and  get  his  bowels  to  acting  freely  by  giving  the  common  cathar- 
tic for  the  animal  affected. 

MYELITIS. — Myelitis  is  really  an  inflammation  of  the  spinal  cord  and 
when  the  coverings  of  the  spinal  cord  are  inflamed  the  disease  should  be  called 
spinal  meningitis. 

CAUSES. — It  is  quite  often  the  result  of  injuries  or  feeding  a poor  quality 
of  food.  It  is  also  the  result  of  severe  exertion  or  undue  nervous  excitement. 
Besides,  it  sometimes  occurs  in  a locality,  affecting  several  animals,  without 
the  cause  being  known  and  in  some  cases  it  follows  an  attack  of  azoturia. 
Whenever  there  is  much  softening  of  the  spinal  cord  it  usually  terminates 
in  complete  paralysis  and  death. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  great  nervousness.  Sometimes  the  animal  per- 
spires and  occasionally  falls  and  is  unable  to  get  up  without  assistance;  but, 
when  down,  usually  struggles.  This  is  a disease  that  occurs  more  often  dur- 
ing cold  weather  than  during  the  summer  months. 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  NERVOUS  SYSTEM. 


69 


TREATMENT. — If  it  is  caused  by  an  injury  and  there  be  a complete 
loss  of  motion  we  have  a right  to  suspect  that  the  back  is  fractured.  In  such 
cases  the  animal  should  be  destroyed.  Give  small  doses  of  iodide  of  potas- 
sium and  apply  hot  water  packs  to  the  back.  Or,  rub  on  some  liniment. 
Fairly  good  results  will  often  follow  giving  tincture  of  nux  vomica  in  one- 
dram  doses  three  or  four  times  a day,  but  if  there  is  complete  paralysis  you 
should  destroy  the  animal. 

EPILEPSY — FITS. — This  is  not  a common  ailment  of  horses  but  is 
quite  common  in  the  dog,  and  is  spoken  of  as  fits  or  convulsions. 

CAUSES. — It  is  very  often  the  result  of  intestinal  or  liver  derangement, 
such  as  a torpid  liver  or  stomach  or  bowel  worms  and  it  sometimes  comes  on 
when  the  animal  is  teething. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  generally  falls,  froths  at  the  mouth  and  has 
a sort  of  convulsive  fit,  but  usually  gets  over  it  in  two  or  three  minutes. 

TREATMENT. — A liberal  supply  of  fresh  air  always  revives  an  animal 
suffering  from  epilepsy  unless  the  brain  hemorrhage  is  extensive.  Also,  give 
bromide  of  potash,  cathartics  and  vermifuges  and  apply  cold  packs  to  the 
head. 

CHOREA. — Chorea  is  a disease  of  the  nervous  system  producing  a sort 
of  involuntary  and  convulsive  jerking  of  the  muscles  and  in  horses  it  usually 
affects  the  flexor  and  extensor  muscles  of  the  hind  legs.  However,  other 
parts  of  the  body  are  sometimes  affected.  I have  known  horses  to  be  af- 
fected in  the  foreleg  and  sometimes  quite  a portion  of  the  body  is  affected. 
This  ailment  is  not  by  any  means  too  well  understood  and  no  sure  remedy 
has  ever  yet  been  discovered.  It  very  often  comes  on  as  a result  of  other 
diseases. 

TREATMENT. — The  general  health  of  the  animal  should  be  looked 
after,  the  body  kept  warm  and  both  the  bowels  and  kidneys  kept  moderately 
active.  If  taken  with  it  lightly  in  the  spring  of  the  year,  quite  a number  of 
animals  recover  when  turned  out  where  they  are  exposed  to  the  bright  sun- 
light. I have  obtained  the  best  results  by  giving  small  doses  of  Fowler’s 
solution  of  arsenic  and  iodide  of  potassium.  Give  from  one  to  three  drams 
of  Fowler’s  solution  and  on^-half  dram  of  iodide  of  potassium  at  a dose  in 
either  feed  or  water  twice  daily.  It  is  very  important  that  the  animal  should 
be  given  good  care  and  exercised  moderately  every  day. 

CEREBRO-SPINAL  MENINGITIS. — Cerebro-spinal  meningitis  is  a 
fever  affecting  the  brain  and  spinal  cord  and  their  coverings.  The  ailment 
seems  to  be  most  prevalent  on  this  continent  and  we  seldom  find  one  case 
alone.  The  nervous  system  appears  to  be  most  affected.  This  disease  is  no 
doubt  on  the  increase.  It  sometimes  arises  sporadically  but  most  commonly 
occurs  as  an  epidemic  in  a stable  or  community. 

CAUSES. — The  causes  of  this  ailment  are  none  too  well  understood. 
Many  veterinarians  believe  it  to  be  due  to  atmospheric  influences.  Bad  venti- 
lation, damp  stables,  feeding  musty  fodder  and  bacteria  may  cause  it.  My 
own  observations  are  that  it  is  generally  brought  on  by  watering  animals  out 
of  wells  that  catch  the  barn  yard  sap  and  where  the  water  is  well  filled  with 
decayed  animal  or  vegetable  matter.  This  is  also  the  conclusion  of  a few 
other  veterinarians.  I might  add  it  is  also  caused  by  the  feeding  of  decayed 
vegetables. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  generally  more  or  less  loss  of  power  which  may 
develop  quite  suddenly  or  gradually.  The  temperature  always  increases,  then 


70 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


some  time  later  falls  below  normal  and  during  the  later  period  may  rise  again. 
There  is  generally  some  twitching  of  the  muscles,  sometimes  about  the  neck, 
at  other  times  the  hind  quarters.  In  severe  cases  it  is  not  unusual  to  find 
the  animal  staggering  and  sometimes  it  tumbles  down,  lying  on  the  side  and 
moving  the  limbs  rapidly  as  though  trotting.  In  other  cases  they  are  more 
paralytic.  In  most  cases  the  bowels  are  constipated  and  small  quantities  of 
urine  are  secreted  and  it  is  generally  of  a reddish  color.  The  eye  is  also 
quite  reddened.  In  other  cases  the  brain  appears  to  be  very  much  affected, 
the  animal  being  drowsy,  dull  and  stupid.  Later  the  animal  becomes  delir- 
ious, has  convulsions  and  soon  dies.  In  most  cases  the  animal  seems  unable 
to  swallow  food,  especially  when  the  disease  seems  to  be  appearing  without 
any  well  known  cause  and  in  different  parts  of  the  country.  Whenever  the 
animal  seems  to  lose  his  power  of  swallowing  food  it  means  almost  sure 
death.  As  a rule  death  results  in  from  two  to  four  or  five  days,  and  on  ex- 
amination after  death  we  usually  find  considerable  effusion  about  the  brain 
and  spinal  cord  with  considerable  congestion  of  the  brain  and  cord.  Also,  the 
bowels  will  be  found  almost  empty  ; however,  I have  often  made  examin- 
ation after  death  and  found  very  few,  if  any,  post  mortem  lesions.  But  the 
symptoms  of  this  disease  differ  from  all  others.  Therefore,  you  can  gener- 
ally make  a correct  diagnosis. 

TREATMENT. — Where  the  loss  of  power  is  almost  complete  you  should 
look  for  a fatal  termination,  but  if  it  is  only  partial,  give  one-half  ounce  of 
bromide  of  potassium  or  the  same  quantity  of  belladonna  every. three  hours 
or  one  ounce  three  times  a day ; or,  2 drams  fluid  extract  every  4 hours.  Apply 
stimulating  home  liniments  to  the  spine  and  legs.  When  giving  medicine  it 
is  very  often  necessary  to  pour  it  through  a tube  for  the  animal  is  unable  to 
swallow.  It  will  also  be  necessary  to  give  nourishment,  such  as  eggs,  milk, 
alcoholic  stimulants  and  gruel  in  the  same  way  and  it  must  not  be  forgotten 
that  a complete  change  of  food  and  water  should  be  made  right  away.  All 
things  considered,  this  is  a very  unsatisfactory  ailment  to  treat  for  the  disease 
generally  proves  fatal. 


FOOT  LAMENESS. 


BRUISED  KNEE. 


WATER  FARCY  OR 
LYMPHANGITIS. 


ACUTE  FARCY  OR  GLANDERS. 


GREASE  HEEL 


SHOULDER  LAMENESS. 


This  is  commonly  called  “Weed  in  the  OPEN  JOINT. 

Leg”  and  if  neglected  will  terminate  in  Caused  by  a kick  or  injury.  Horse 

the  chronic  form  called  “ Elephantiasis.”  also  has  a bog  spavin. 


LAMENESS. 


(Including  Sweeny,  Sprains  and  Strains,  Fractures,  Spavins,  Curbs,  Splints, 
Thorough-Pin,  Etc.,  and  Full  Directions  for  Locating  Lameness.) 


HOW  TO  LOCATE  LAMENESS. — Nothing  seems  to  puzzle  the  horse 
owner  and  farmer  more  than  locating  lameness.  This,  perhaps,  is  for  want 
of  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  symptoms  of  lameness ; also  for  lack  of  famil- 
iarity with  the  normal  gait  and  peculiarity  of  action.  Now,  in  order  that 
every  reader  of  this  book  may  school  himself  in  the  art  of  locating  lameness, 
I shall  try  to  make  the  symptoms  clear  and  as  easily  understood  as  possible. 
Lameness  is  a manifestation  of  pain  by  one  or  more  limbs,  indicating  weak- 
ness or  inability,  soreness  or  stiffness,  causing  partial  or  total  inability  to  use 
the  limb  or  limbs.  In  order  to  detect  lameness  when  it  is  slight  you  must 
be  familiar,  not  only  with  the  natural  gaits  but  all  the  peculiarities  of  gait. 
The  signs  of  lameness  during  repose  (rest)  are  very  important  and  fre- 
quently assist  materially  in  locating  the  seat  of  trouble.  If  resting  on  all 
four  limbs,  the  pastern  of  the  lame  one  will  generally  be  more  upright  than 
the  others;  if  one  foreleg  be  far  in  advance  of  the  otHer  it  indicates  tender- 
ness or  soreness  in  the  back  part  of  the  leg  and  low  down.  Resting  the  toe 
on  the  ground  and  bending  the  knee  and  fetlock,  without  the  foot’s  being  in 
advance  of  the  other,  indicates  shoulder  or  elbow  lameness.  When  both  fore- 
feet are  kept  in  advance  of  the  body,  the  animal  resting  on  the  heels,  with  the 
hind  legs  kept  well  under  the  body,  the  soreness  is  usually  in  the  forefeet. 
When  a horse  rests  one  foot  more  and  for  a longer  time  than  any  of 
the  others  it  should  create  suspicion.  When  he  is  inclined  to  lie  down  and 
remain  so,  it  indicates  weakness,  perhaps  fracture  or  considerable  pain.  In 
most  cases  of  hind  quarter  lameness,  if  it  is  situated  low  down,  the  foot  is 
kept  in  advance,  but  if  in  the  stifle,  he  drags  the  toe  and  if  the  hip  is  the 
seat  of  trouble  he  will  also  drag  the  leg  and  trot  out  of  alignment.  A horse 
that  walks  lame  always  trots  very  lame.  Lameness  may  be  shown  in  the 
walk  but  it  is  best  seen  in  the  slow  easy  trot  and,  if  led,  the  head  should  not 
be  pulled  to  one  side,  and  the  less  excitement  the  better.  In  all  cases  of  lame- 
ness where  only  one  leg  is  involved  the  leg  is  lifted  quickly  and  less  weight  is 
put  upon  that  foot ; therefore,  a halting  of  the  limb  occurs  and  by  listening 
a different  noise  is  made  when  the  foot  strikes  the  ground.  When  one  fore 
limb  is  aft'ected  the  head  and  fore  quarter  are  raised  when  that  foot  comes  to 
the  ground,  but  he  is  seen  to  drop  on  the  well  side.  Do  not  be  misled  and 
suppose  that  he  is  lame  behind,  for,  to  the  casual  observer,  it  would  seem 
so  on  account  of  a depression  in  the  opposite  hind  hip.  In  lameness  in  one 
hind  leg  the  hip  is  raised  higher  than  the  opposite  one  and  dropped  carefully ; 
in  other  cases  a depression  is  found  in  the  hip.  With  lameness  in  both  fore- 
feet he  steps  short  and  puts  the  foot  down  carefully ; he  changes  position 
often,  not  standing  on  one  foot  very  long  at  a time;  the  shoulders  are  carried 
stiff  and  upright;  the  head  is  carried  high;  the  loins  are  arched  and  the  hind 
feet  are  brought  well  under  the  body.  Lameness  in  both  hind  quarters  is 
generally  marked  by  the  backward  position  of  the  forefeet,  being  well  under 
the  horse  in  order  to  take  some  weight  off  the  hind  quarters;  besides,  he 

n 


72 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


backs  with  difficulty.  When  the  horse  is  lame  in  both  legs  on  same  side  he 
usually  ambles  and  never  trots  square,  but  drops  heavy  on  the  well  side. 
Remember,  if  a horse  which  is  lame  in  the  right  fore  limb  be  trotted  from 
you  he  seems  to  be  lame  in  the  left  hind  leg  for  the  quarter  ascends  and 
descends.  A horse  trotted  in  a small  circle  always  appears  to  be  lame  in 
the  leg  nearest  the  center  of  the  ring.  Many  horses  travel  with  a nod  in 
front  or  have  a hitch  behind,  but  are  perfectly  sound.  Other  horses  come  out 
of  the  stable  sore  and  lame  but  after  taking  a few  steps  go  sound.  Some 
lameness  grows  more  severe  the  farther  he  goes.  The  slow  gait  is  the  best 
gait  to  locate  lameness.  Be  sure  to  have  the  horse  trotted  towards  you, 
watch  closely  for  the  symptoms  I have  mentioned  and  do  not  decide  too 
quickly.  Have  him  trotted  immediately  after  he  leaves  the  stable.  Examine 
the  foot  closely ; I have  known  horses  to  be  lame  in  two  places  in  the  same 
leg  at  the  same  time.  In  locating  lameness  it  is  well  to  use  both  negative 
and  positive  signs.  If  there  is  heat,  pain,  or  swelling  in  any  part  of  the  limb, 
discoverable  by  manipulation,  the  evidence  is  positive  that  the  cause  is  in 
such  parts.  If  there  is  no  heat,  swelling,  or  pain,  then  we  must  conclude 
the  lameness  is  deep  seated  and  then  arrive  at  a conclusion  from  negative 
evidence.  It  is  a very  common  custom  to  make  a hurried  examination,  jump 
at  a conclusion  and  apply  some  liniment  or  blister  without  being  certain  where 
the  lameness  is  located.  It  is  far  better  to  apply  some  soothing  remedy  such 
as  hot  or  cold  water  or  wait  a few  days  until  the  symptoms  are  more  marked. 
In  my  practice  in  Cleveland  and  elsewhere,  it  is  unusual  to  be  called  upon  to  see 
a lame  horse  that  has  not  had  something  done  to  him  before  he  was  brought 
to  me  and,  four  times  out  of  five,  remedies  have  been  applied  to  the  wrong 
parts.  This  is  not  always  for  want  of  knowledge  but  is  often  gross  care- 
lessness. Lameness  is  not  of  itself  a disease  but  a manifestation  of  it.  It 
is  generally  an  expression  of  pain  and  w'e  seldom  have  much  lameness  with- 
out pain.  We  seldom  have  lameness  existing  for  any  great  length  of  time 
without  some  inflammation ; however,  a stone  in  the  foot  may  cause  great 
pain  before  any  increased  heat  sets  in.  A great  many  horses  would, appear 
to  sort  of  come  honestly  by  their  lameness ; therefore,  in  selecting  breeding 
stock  they  should  be  free  from  both  bone  and  bog  spavin,  thorough-pin,  capped 
hock,  bursal  swellings,  ringbone,  side-bone,  curb,  navicular  disease  and  flat 
feet  and  they  should  also  be  of  good  conformation  and  then  you  will  find 
much  less  lameness  to  contend  with  in  your  horses  and  especially  in  your  colts. 

SWEENY— ATROPHY  OF  MUSCLES— WASTING  AWAY  OF 
PARTS — SHOULDER  SLIP. — What  is  understood  by  sweeny  is  an  atrophy 
or  wasting  away  of  the  muscles  of  the  shoulder  following  shoulder  slip  or  a 
sprain  of  the  shoulder  muscles  or  other  causes.  Or,  it  may  result  from  chronic 
lameness  in  other  parts  of  the  limb  causing  the  animal  pain  which  prevents 
the  proper  exercising  of  that  quarter;  so  you  can  readily  understand  that 
sweeny  of  the  shoulder  may  be  a result  of  soreness  or  weakness  in  some  other 
part  of  the  limb  and  not  in  the  shoulder.  When  you  find  a sweenied  condition 
of  the  shoulder  or  hip  with  lameness  in  that  quarter,  make  a careful  ex- 
amination of  the  whole  limb  before  arriving  at  a positive  conclusion  that  the 
injury  is  in  the  sweenied  or  wasted  part. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  lameness  is  in  the  lower  part  of  the  limb  treat 
the  diseased  part  to  relieve  the  animal  of  pain,  unless  it  is  a mechanical 
stififness  that  is  causing  the  trouble,  but  of  course  stimulate  the  wasted 
muscles  with  any  good  home  liniment,  such  as  is  made  by  mixing  equal  parts 


MUSCLES  AND  TENDONS  OF  THE  HORSE. 


a.  Flexor  pedis  perforatus  tendon. 

b.  Flexor  pedis  perforans  tendon. 

c.  Suspensory  ligament. 

d.  Check  ligament. 

e.  Fxtensor  pedis  tendon. 

f.  Extensor  suffraginis  tendon. 

g.  Cannon  bone. 

h.  Splint  bone. 

i.  Upper  pastern  bone, 
k.  Lower  i)astern  bone. 

1.  Lateral  cartilage. 

14.  Longissimus  dorsi. 


2L  Flexor  brachii. 

2.'!.  Fxtensor  suffraginis. 

24.  Extensor  metacarpi  magnus. 

25.  Extensor  pedis  tendon. 

2ti.  Flexor  pedis  perforans. 

Mb.  Gluteus  maximus. 

r>S.  Gastrocnemius  externus. 
ffO.  Flexor  pedis  perforatus. 

40.  Flexor  pedis  perforans. 

41.  I’eroneus. 

42.  Flexor  metatarsi. 

4o.  I'Lxtensor  pedis. 


HORSE— LAMENESS. 


73 


of  tincture  of  cantharides,  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and  sweet  oil  and  apply 
it  to  the  wasted  muscles  daily  or  as  often  as  thought  necessary.  Or,  blister 
lightly  with  cerate  of  cantharides.  During  the  winter  and  cooler  months  of 
the  year  I have  obtained  good  results  from  setons,  but  this  is  a rather  an- 
cient treatment  and  attended  with  some  risk.  There  are  many  kinds  of 
liniments  and  blisters  that  act  well  in  these  cases.'  Muscle-making  food 
such  as  oats  and  a good  quality  of  mixed  hay  should  be  fed  in  preference 
to  starchy,  fattening  food.  If  the  animal  is  not  lame,  walking  or  slow  exer- 
cise will  assist  in  reproducing  and  growing  the  muscular  fibres. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SWEENY.— 

1.  Sweeny  Cure. — Put  one  ounce  each  of  camphor  gum,  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine, tincture  of  cantharides  and  oil  of  hemlock ; two  ounces  of  oil  of 
spike  and  four  ounces  of  oil  of  origanum  into  a pint  of  olive  oil.  The  skin 
should  first  be  well  pulled  and  lifted  over  the  parts  and  then  the  liniment 
should  be  applied  every  two  or  three  days  for  two  or  three  weeks.  If  the 
blistering  is  too  severe  a few  applications  may  be  missed  and  the  parts 
rubbed  with  lard  or  sweet  oil. 

2.  Sweeny. — Apply  equal  parts  of  tincture  of  cantharides,  sweet  oil, 
hartshorn  and  origanum.  This  is  an  effective  remedy  for  sweeny  and  shrink- 
ing of  the  muscles. 

3.  Sweeny  Cure  Without  Medicine. — Pull  the  skin  up  well  over  the 
shrunken  parts,  make  a small  incision  with  a knife,  insert  a goose  quill  and 
blow  full  of  air.  The  horse  should  then  be  allowed  to  rest  or  to  run  on  pasture 
for  a few  days. 

SPRAINS  OF  TENDONS,  LIGAMENTS  AND  MUSCLES.— What  is 
understood  by  a sprain  or  strain  is  a distention  or  laceration  of  the  fibre  of 
a tendon,  ligament  or  muscle  and  the  name  following  the  word  “ sprain  ” 
merely  indicates  its  location  but  they  nearly  all  require  the  same  sort  of 
treatment  and  the  same  line  of  care.  A sprain  is  usually  the  result  of  an 
accident  caused  by  slipping,  falling  or  over-exertion,  such  as  pulling  too  heavy 
a load.  Horses  are  sprained  by  making  a misstep  or  by  traveling  on  slippery 
footing  or  by  hauling  loads  up  a hill  when  the  road  is  wet  and  muddy  and 
they  are  not  properly  shod  to  give  secure  footing.  Horses  very  often  strain 
themselves  when  holding  back  a heavy  load  while  going  down  hill ; besides, 
I have  known  many  horses  to  sprain  different  parts  of  the  body  when  get- 
ting up  awkwardly  on  a slippery  floor.  Sprains  are  a common  occurrence 
among  race  horses,  caused  by  over-exertion. 

TREATMENT. — In  every  case  of  sprain  when  a rapid  recovery  is  de- 
sired the  animal  should  be  given  absolute  rest  until  the  lameness  disappears. 
The  inflammation  should  be  subdued  by  cold  applications  in  the  summer 
months  and  hot  applications  in  the  winter  but  in  order  to  do  much  good  water 
should  be  applied  frequently,  After  a few  days  treatment  with  water  and 
perhaps  bandages,  apply  the  following  lotion  five  or  six  times  a day.  Dissolve 
14  pound  of  sugar  of  lead  and  eight  ounces  of  fluid  extract  of  arnica  in  one 
gallon  of  water;  or,  apply  equal  parts  extract  witch  hazel,  alcohol  and  spirits 
of  camphor  twice  a day.  Or,  apply  equal  parts  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia 
and  sweet  oil  once  a day  and  later  on,  perhaps  a blister,  using  cerate  of  can- 
tharides once  a week  until  recovery  takes  place.  A laxative  diet  should  al- 
ways be  substituted  in  place  of  a stimulating  grain  diet. 


74 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  LINIMENTS  AND  REMEDIES  FOR  SPRAINS. 
STRAINS,  SWELLINGS,  BUNCHES,  SORES  AND  LAMENESS.^ 

1.  Salt  and  Vinegar. — Bathe  and  bandage  with  salt  and  vinegar.  This 
should  be  applied  to  sprained  parts  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 

2.  California  Liniment. — To  one  quart  of  best  alcohol  add  one  ounce  of 
aqua  ammonia,  one-half  ounce  each  of  red  pepper  and  gum  camphor  and  two 
ounces  each  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  oil  of  origanum,  opodeldoc  and  black 
oil.  These  should  be  mixed  and  kept  well  corked.  Good  for  sprains,  swell- 
ings, rheumatism  and  all  acute  pains  in  man  or  beast. 

3.  Gargling  Oil. — To  one  pint  of  good  cider  vinegar  add  one-half  pint 
each  of  sweet  oil  and  spirits  of  turpentine,  one  ounce  of  oil  of  vitriol  and 
two  ounces  of  castile  soap.  The  soap  should  be  finely  shaved.  Shake  occa- 
sionally until  dissolved.  This  is  splendid  for  wounds,  frostbites,  swellings, 
etc. 

4.  Liniment  for  Lumps,  Bruises  and  Cuts. — Mix  two  ounces  of  gum 
camphor  with  four  ounces  each  of  linseed  oil,  turpentine,  and  oil  of  spike  and 
apply  as  often  as  necessary. 

5.  Olive  Oil,  Camphor  and  Turpentine. — Mix  one  ounce  gum  camphor 
with  four  ounces  each  of  olive  oil  and  turpentine.  This  will  be  found  excel- 
lent for  bruises,  sprains,  sores,  and  lameness. 

6.  English  White  Oil. — Mix  one  pint  of  olive  oil,  one-half  pint  each  of 
spirits  of  turpentine  and  alcohol  and  four  ounces  each  of  camphor  gum  and 
hartshorn.  This  will  be  found  very  healing  and  is  good  for  sprains  of  all 
kinds  and  for  reducing  bunches. 

7.  Lotion  and  Liniment  for  Strains  and  Swelled  Legs. — Steep  two 
ounces  of  wormwood  herb  in  a quart  of  vinegar  and  add  a pound  of  salt.  Bathe 
the  parts  well  with  this  lotion  and  then  apply  the  following  liniment.  To 
one  quart  of  alcohol  add  one  ounce  of  oil  of  spike  and  two  ounces  each  of  oil 
of  cedar,  oil  of  hemlock,  camphor  gum,  sweet  oil  and  turpentine.  Shake  well 
before  applying.  This  will  be  found  an  excellent  treatment  for  nearly  all 
kinds  of  strains  and  swellings. 

DISEASES  OF  THE  BONE. — Diseases  of, the  bone  are  of  an  inflam- 
matory or  non-inflammatory  character.  When  the  substance  of  the  bone  be- 
comes inflamed  we  call  the  disease  ostitis  and  the  disease  very  often  subsides, 
usually  leaving  a bunch  but  in  many  cases  no  lameness.  In  splint,  spavin  and 
ringbone  we  have  this  condition  of  the  bone.  Another  form  of  bone  disease 
is  “ caries  ” where  the  bone  seems  to  be  destroyed  and  comes  away  in  par- 
ticles. We  find  this  the  case  in  fistula  of  the  withers  and  poll  evil  when  the 
case  is  chronic.  Necrosis  of  a bone  means  its  destruction  and  these  cases  do 
not  get  well. 

TREATMENT. — A healthy  action  should  be  brought  about  as  rapidly  as 
possible  and  if  the  bone  is  diseased  cut  down  on  the  diseased  part,  scrape  or 
cut  it  off,  then  apply  home  remedies  such  as  carbolic  acid,  coal-tar  dip,  creo- 
sote, iodoform,  boric  acid  or  any  good  healing  powder. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BONE— -OSTITIS.— Diseases  of  the  bone 
are  usually  either  inflammator}^  or  non-inflammatory,  but  it  is  not  always  an 
easy  matter  to  tell  which.  Bones  seem  to  become  inflamed  much  the  same 
as  the  soft  tissues.  When  the  substance  of  the  bone  is  inflamed  it  is  called 
“ ostitis  ” and  when  the  covering  of  the  bone  is  inflamed  it  is  called  perios- 
titis ” which,  of  course,  is  an  inflammation  of  the  periosteum.  Ostitis  may  sub- 
side without  forming  any  bony  enlargement.  Every  bone  is  permeated  with  a 


’.;»».  '■  - • V '^'afev, 


. ■.■'■  ■•■  - • vv;  ■ 

■ •••^;*H--‘ -.  .rjysv,'* • • • • ^ ,.  . .•  •.  ./. 

.Vi-;',.  V- 


■'..■'%‘;:"fc»r'  ' *<;  *: 

',*v  ;• 


'SiA^  .yy  ’;''y'',  yy'^" 


-.(.'a 


•T^  J?'f  ^ 


STISW^'':  VjfV  ,■  ™ ' !>!r  ..d^r  A ^'/V,  ,'^-.r;  ^ *’,.  <*/>,,.,•••..  . . ;;•'  • .X  , , 


. „•.,  • «»•■.>  ;;.  . .Vw?1 




;.*J  ./.»■**''■■.'*'  *•■.  ,.«-‘iJ--/^r'-  '■  •.'* 

r^nKkVj*t  4ititw  ‘ 


SKELETON  OF  THE  HORSE. 


A.  Head. 

B.  I-o\ver  jaw. 

C.  Atlas. 

D.  .\.xis. 

E.  The  remaining  five  cervical  vertebrae. 

F.  Spinous  processes  of  the  back  and  withers. 

G.  Lumbar  vertebrae. 

H.  Sacrum. 

I.  Coccygeal,  or  tail  bones. 

J.  Scapula,  or  shoulder  blade. 

K.  Humerus,  or  arm  bone. 

L.  Radius  and  ulna  or  bones  of  the  forearm. 

M.  Carpal,  or  knee  bones. 

N.  Small  metacarpal,  or  cannon  bone. 

O.  Large  metacarpal,  or  cannon  bone. 

P.  Os  suffraginis,  or  pastern  bone. 

Q.  Sesamoid  bones. 

R.  Os  coronae,  or  lower  i)astern  bone. 

S.  Os  pedis,  or  coffin  bone. 

T.  Ribs. 

U.  Pelvis. 

V.  Femur,  or  thigh  bone. 

X.  Patella,  or  stifle  bone. 


Y.  Tibia  and  Fibula,  or  leg  bones. 

Z.  Tarsal,  or  hock  bone. 

a.  Large  metatarsal,  or  cannon  bone. 

b.  Upper  pastern  bone. 

C.  Sesamoid  bones. 

d.  Lower  pastern  bone. 

e.  Coffin  bone. 

f.  Ligamentum  nuchae,  or  neck  ligament. 

1.  Cranium. 

2.  Orbital  cavity. 

4.  Incisor  teeth. 

5.  Molar  teeth. 

(5.  Shoulder  joint. 

0.  Cartilage  of  i)rolongation. 

11.  Ulna,  or  elhow  bone. 

12.  Rib  cartilages. 

l.S.  Point  of  the  hip;  outer  angle  of  the  ilium. 
14.  Point  of  the  croup  ; inner  angle  of  the  ilium. 

1.1.  Ischium. 

1(5.  Hi])  joint. 

17.  Stifle  joint, 

lb.  Calcaneum. 

20.  Cuboid. 


HORSE— LAMENESS. 


75 


sort  of  net  work  of  minute  blood  vessels  carrying  nutriment  to  build,  grow 
and  nourish  them;  now,  when  the  bone  is  injured  and  an  inflammation  is 
set  up,  interfering  with  the  circulation  through  the  bone,  changes  soon  begin 
to  take  place.  At  first  a fluid  is  thrown  out,  which  is  called  lymph  and  this 
may  soon  change  into  pus,  settling  either  on  the  surface  or  in  the  interior.  Or,  a 
hardening  of  the  lymph  takes  place  closing  the  blood  vessels  and  limiting 
the  supply  of  blood,  then  some  ulceration'  of  the  bone  may  take  place.  In- 
flammation of  the  bone  very  often  results  in  the  formation  of  a bony  bunch 
called  exostosis ; or,  it  may  result  in  what  is  called  caries,  meaning  the  grad- 
ual destruction  of  the  bone.  This  latter  we  very  often  find  in  chronic  cases 
of  poll-evil  and  fistulous  withers.  Sometimes  in  hock  lameness  there  is  very 
little  enlargement  but  an  ulceration  of  the  surface  of  the  bones  has  been 
going  on  and  this  may  be  followed  by  a necrosis  or  complete  destruction  of 
the  bone.  Such  conditions  are  serious  and  are  incurable  when  joints  are 
much  involved. 

GENERAL  SYMPTOMS. — In  slight  cases  there  is  some  soreness  but 
seldom  much  lameness,  unless  trotted  on  a very  hard  road.  The  bone  is 
tender  when  tapped  with  a piece  of  wood  and  in  cases  where  the  inflamma- 
tion is  great  the  lameness  is  extreme.  When  suppuration  takes  place  in  the 
interior  of  a bone  the  pus  may  remain  imprisoned  for  a long  time,  but  it 
causes  great  pain.  When  pus  forms  between  the  bone  and  its  covering  and 
is  not  allowed  to  escape,  it  often  does  great  harm  and  when  pus  forms  deep 
in  a bone  the  bone  usually  bulges  and  enlarges  somewhat.  Ulceration  of 
the  bone  often  follows  exposure  of  the  bone  to  air  or  to  pressure  of  pus 
and  when  it  is  going  on  a strong  disagreeable  odor  is  thrown  off,  differing 
from  all  other  odors.  Death  of  a bone  is  generally  associated  with  an  open 
sore  and  if  the  discharge  is  felt  it  will  be  found  to  contain  grit  and  it  will 
also  blacken  silver.  If  the  wound  is  probed  the  bare  bone  can  be  felt. 

GENERAL  TREATMENT. — In  the  first  treatment  of  the  bone  it  is 
always  a good  plan  to  first  try  soothing  remedies,  such  as  hot  or  cold  water. 
A dose  of  purgative  medicine  generally  helps.  Cooling  astringent  lotions  are 
proper  remedies ; put  one-fourth  pound  sugar  of  lead,  one-half  ounce  alum, 
and  three  ounces  sulphate  zinc  into  a gallon  of  cold  water;  or  put  one  pint  of 
alcohol,  one-fourth  pound  saltpeter,  two  ounces  muriate  ammonia  and  one 
quart  cider  vinegar  into  a gallon  of  cold  water  and  apply  to  sore  parts  five 
times  a day.  One  part  alcohol,  five  parts  witch-hazel  and  five  parts  water  is 
a good  remedy.  When  the  acute  inflammation  has  subsided  apply  equal  parts 
tincture  iodine,  spirits  camphor  and  alcohol  to  sore  parts  daily.  Later  apply 
one  part  red  iodide  mercury  and  eight  parts  lard  or  apply  cerate  of  cantha- 
rides.  In  treating  bony  tumors  it  is  well  to  understand  that  mineral  acids 
remove  them  but  always  leave  a scar;  besides,  if  applied  over  a joint  they 
may  do  harm  by  producing  open  joint.  Cutting  off  bony  bunches  should  be 
done  with  care.  The  skin  should  be  opened  and  the  bunch  removed  with  a 
chisel  or  bone  cutter  and  the  wound  should  be  treated  with  great  care. 
Many  times  the  distension  of  a fibrous  membrane  stretched  over  a bony 
bunch  causes  great  pain  and  lameness.  When  this  is  cut  relief  comes  quickly, 
but  when  the  operation  is  performed  great  care  should  be  taken  not  to 
introduce  any  air  or  infection. 

FRACTURES — BROKEN  BONES. — What  is  generally  meant  by  a 
fracture  is  a broken  bone.  However,  in  surgery  it  means  any  breaking  of 
the  texture  of  a bone  or  other  hard  structure.  Fractures  are  common  in  all 


76 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


the  lower  animals ; perhaps  more  so  in  the  horse  and  dog  than  in  other  animals. 
There  are  four  kinds  of  fractures  met  with — simple,  compound,  comminuted 
and  compound  comminuted.  Simple  fracture  is  that  form  wherein  the  bone 
is  broken  nearly  straight  across.  Compound  fracture  is  where  the  broken 
bone  pierces  the  flesh  and  skin.  Comminuted  fracture  is  where  the  bone  is 
broken  in  several  places.  Compouad  comminuted  fracture  is  where  the  bone 
is  shattered,  cutting  the  soft  tissues,  and  is  rather  complicated. 

CAUSES. — External  violence  is  one  of  the  causes,  such  as  kicks,  blows, 
and  coming  in  contact  with  hard  substances  while  going  fast.  Muscular  con- 
traction when  tied  and  confined  for  surgical  work,  rearing  and  falling,  slip- 
ping and  heavy  pulling  are  all  causes  of  fracture. 

SYMPTOMS. — As  a rule  it  is  not  difficult  to  tell  when  a bone  is  broken 
for  there  is  generally  great  pain  and  by  motion  a grating  noise  is  produced 
by  the  ends  of  the  broken  bones  rubbing  together.  If  the  break  is  deep 
seated  it  may  be  puzzling  for  the  bones  are  held  pretty  well  in  position  by 
heavy  muscles  and  the  bones  may  not  be  much  if  any  out  of  place. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  astonishing  how  fast  a fracture  mends  in  an  ani- 
mal if  the  bones  are  put  in  place  and  held  there.  The  whole  object  of  treat- 
ment should  be  to  put  the  bones  back  in  place  as  quickly  as  possible  and 
keep  them  there.  When  a fracture  occurs  in  a part  of  the  body  which 
cannot  be  reached  and  the  bones  are  much  out  of  place  the  horse  had  better 
be  killed  for  he  will  never  recover.  Always  put  the  bones  back  in  place 
promptly  and  apply  splints  and  bandages  that  have  been  starched ; or  use 
plaster  of  Paris.  It  is  often  necessary  to  place  the  animal  in  slings. 

EXOSTOSIS  OF  THE  JAW. — This  is  quite  a common  affection  of 
the  lower  jaw  and  consists  in  one  or  more  small  bony  bunches  on  the  jaw. 

CAUSES. — The  curb  chain  causes  the  most  of  them  and  the  .tight  nose 
strap  produces  some ; also,  eating  out  of  small  iron  feed  boxes  is  another 
common  cause  of  exostosis. 

SYMPTOMS. — Sometimes  they  are  small  round  bunches,  but  they  may 
be  quite  flat  and  spread  over  considerable  of  the  lower  jaw.  They  do  not 
always  do  much  harm  but  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  jaw. 

TREATMENT. — Give  one-half  dram  iodide  potassium  at  a dose  in 
either  feed  or  water  twice  a day  for  twenty  days,  then  give  the  medicine 
once  a day  for  thirty  days.  Apply  iodine  ointment.  This  you  can  secure 
at  any  drug  store  and  it  should  be  applied  every  day  or  two. 

BONE  SPAVIN. — Bone  spavin  is  a bony  growth  (exostosis)  involving 
the  hock  joint,  generally  affecting  the  front  and  inner,  lower  portion  of  the 
joint.  There  is  always  considerable  irritation,  causing  more  or  less  inflam- 
mation of  the  bones.  Whenever  this  inflammation  affects  the  synovial  mem- 
brane and  covering  of  the  bones,  there  will  be  lameness,  but  there  may 
be  no  enlargement.  But  when  there  is  any  exudation  (oozing  out)  of  bony 
matter  there  will  soon  be  an  enlargement,  showing  what  part  of  the  joint 
is  involved. 

CAUSES. — The  causes  of  spavin  are  hereditary  and  exciting.  The  pre- 
disposing causes  are  horses  with  heavy  bodies  and  light,  weak,  crooked 
hocks;  these  are  the  animals  that  appear  to  come  honestly  by  bone  spavin. 
I have  known  hundreds  of  horses  of  the  same  family  to  suffer  from  bone 
spavin  lameness  without  ever  working  a day ; consequently,  they  must  have 
inherited  a predisposition  to  this  disease.  The  exciting  causes  are  bruises 
of  the  joint,  sprains,  injuries,  hard  work  and  fast  driving  on  hard  roads. 


Champaign-Ur' 


'iJ 

3 


’ iJbrary  Champaign-Urb 


HORSE— LAMENESS. 


77 


producing  concussion  and  setting  up  an  inflammation  of  hock  joint,  espe- 
cially if  the  joint  is  crooked  and  narrow  from  the  front  to  the  back. 

SYMPTOMS. — A horse  suffering  from  bone  spavin  lameness  usually 
steps  shorter  with  the  lame  leg  and  starts  quite  lame  but  grows  less  so  after 
traveling  a short  distance.  The  exercise  appears  to  stimulate  a secretion  of 
synovial  fluid  (joint^oil)  which  oils  the  joint,  relieving  the  pain  and  making 
the  horse  more  comfortable  but,  as  soon  as  he  is  allowed  to  stand  still  for 
a few  minutes,  he  will  start  lame  again.  In  more  severe  cases  and  of  longer 
standing  the  lameness  does  not  disappear  very  much  with  exercise.  In 
nearly  all  cases  of  spavin  lameness  the  horse  steps  on  the  toe  when  start- 
ing or  stepping  over  in  the  stall  and  very  often  shows  a great  deal  of 
lameness  when  traveling  through  deep  mud  or  snow.  When  a spavin  is 
causing  lameness,  the  joint  is  usually  inflamed.  This  is  easily  ascertained  by 
wetting  both  hock  joints  with  cold  water;  the  diseased  one  always  dries 
first.  In  chronic  cases  the  muscles  of  the  hip  are  generally  wasted  some  from 
lack  of  exercise  but  this  must  not  mislead  you  in  determining  the  trouble. 

TREATMENT. — If  an  exciting  cause  has  produced  spavin,  this  cause 
should  be  removed  before  we  can  expect  a recovery  to  take  place.  Unless 
the  affected  bones  can  be  grown  into  a solid  bone  the  horse  will  remain  lame. 
In  my  practice  and  at  my  hospital  I have  treated  thousands  of  cases  of 
bone  spavin  and  those  that  have  recovered  from  their  lameness  were  given 
absolute  rest  until  they  traveled  sound  and  after  getting  well  they  re- 
mained so.  The  inflammation  of  the  joint  should  be  reduced  with  either 
hot  or  cold  water  applications.  After  applying  these  for  a few  days,  apply 
any  good  home  liniment,  iodine  ointment  or  light  blisters,  such  as  cerate  of 
cantharides,  or  equal  parts  of  tincture  cantharides,  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia 
and  sweet  oil.  Apply  once  a day  until  the  parts  blister.  Or,  apply  one  part 
red  iodide  mercury,  one  part  powdered  cantharides  and  eight  parts  fresh 
lard.  These  applications  should  not  be  made  oftener  than  every  week  or  ten 
days.  There  are  many  other  blisters  that  you  may  use  that  will  perhaps 
give  you  good  results.  Should  blisters  fail  to  reduce  the  lameness,  have  the 
horse  fired.  I have  succeeded  in  relieving  many  cases  by  cutting  a tendon 
which  crosses  the  hock  joint.  This  operation  should  not  be  attempted  by 
any  other  than  a skilled  surgeon.  A high-heeled  shoe  always  relieves  a spav- 
ined horse  when  traveling.  Young  horses  are  far  more  likely  to  recover 
from  spavin  lameness  than  old  ones  and  when  a horse  with  spavin  warms 
out  of  his  lameness  he  should  recover  if  given  suffleient  rest  and  proper 
treatment. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SPAVINS,  SPLINTS,  RING- 
BONES, ETC.— 

1.  Cantharides,  Etc. — To  one  ounce  of  lard  and  one-half  ounce  of  tar  add 
2 drams  each  of  cantharides  and  corrosive  sublimate  and  rub  this  mixture  in 
thoroughly  for  about  ten  minutes.  Twenty-four  hours  later  apply  vaseline 
and  do  this  every  night  and  morning  until  the  blister  has  healed. 

2.  Spavins,  Splints  and  Ringbones. — To  one-half  pound  of  lard  add 
2 ounces  of  turpentine,  one  ounce  of  cantharides  and  three  drams  of  biniodide 
of  mercury.  These  should  be  thoroughly  mixed  and  then  applied  to  spavins, 
splints  or  ringbones  every  week  or  ten  days  and  the  blistered  surface  should 
be  healed  with  vaseline.  This  will  be  found  to  be  an  effective  remedy. 

3.  Soap,  Salt  and  Turpentine  for  Bone  Spavin. — Mix  salt,  turpentine 
and  soft  soap  to  make  a soft  salve.  Apply  three  days  and  leave  off  for 


78 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


three  days  but  rub  each  day ; then  apply  for  six  days  and  then  rub  gently 
until  there  is  an  oozing  out  of  yellow  matter.  After  this  apply  once  every 
two  or  three  days  as  long  as  there  is  a swelling. 

BOG  SPAVIN  AND  BLOOD  SPAVIN. — A bog  spavin  is  a sort  of  puffy 
swelling  situated  on  the  fore  part  of  the  hock  joint.  The  capsular  ligament  is 
always  distended  and  on  account  of  the  irritation  of  the  joint  there  is  always 
an  increased  secretion  of  joint  oil  (synovial  fluid).  Associated  with  bog 
spavin  we  generally  have  thorough-pin.  If  an  enlarged  or  varicose  vein 
passes  over  the  spavin  it  is  sometimes  called  blood  spavin. 

CAUSES. — Bog  spavin  is  generally  brought  on  by  hard  work,  fast  driv- 
ing, heavy  pulling,  irregular  exercise  and  a predisposition  from  faulty  con- 
formation of  the  hock  joint.  This  is  sometimes  an  hereditary  ailment. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are  exceedingly  plain,  for  this  puffy  bulg- 
ing of  the  joint  can  readily  be  seen.  When  this  ailment  occurs  on  a heavy 
horse,  producing  no  lameness,  it  should  not  be  regarded  as  serious  but  when 
it  occurs  on  lighter  horses  it  should  be  regarded  with  suspicion,  especially 
if  there  be  a deposit  of  calcareous  matter  in  the  joint,  for  these  cases 
are  difficult  to  treat  successfully.  The  more  tense  and  hard  is  this  swelling, 
the  less  likely  is  the  animal  to  recover. 

TREATMENT. — As  stated,  a heavy  horse  may  suffer  from  bog  spavin 
and  it  never  hurt  him ; these  cases  should  be  let  alone.  Cold  applications 
and  sometimes  hot  applications  are  helpful ; however,  cold  seems  to  produce 
the  best  results.  Hand  rubbing  and  slight  pressure  from  a truss  and  bandag- 
ing with  pad  are  beneficial.  Stimulating  liniments,  light  blisters  and  some- 
times firing  produce  excellent  results.  Some  practitioners  recommend  draw- 
ing off  this  fluid  with  an  aspirator,  then  injecting  some  iodine  into  the 
joint;  however,  this  must  be  regarded  as  rather  dangerous,  unless  done  by 
an  expert  and  even  then  it  very  often  sets  up  a violent  inflammation  of  the 
joint,  causing  the  animal  great  suffering;  therefore,  all  things  considered,  it 
is  not  good  practice. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BOG-SPAVIN,  BLOOD  SPAVIN 
AND  THOROUGH-PIN.— 

1.  Bog  and  Blood  Spavin  and  Thorough-Pin. — Mix  three  drams  each  of 
cantharides  and  biniodide  of  mercury  with  four  ounces  of  lard.  Clip  the 
hair  and  rub  the  ointment  well  into  the  parts.  In  forty-eight  hours  wash  the 
parts  clean  and  apply  sweet  oil  every  day.  Repeat  every  ten  days  until 
cured.  Tie  the  horse  so  that  he  cannot  reach  the  parts. 

CURB. — A curb  is  a rupture  or  a sprain  of  a short  ligament  situated 
on  the  back  part  of  the  hock  joint.  The  upper  portion  of  the  back  tendons 
may  also  be  sprained  at  the  time  of  injury. 

CAUSES. — Many  animals  on  account  of  having  crooked  hocks  are  liable 
to  curb.  This  is  on  account  of  the  hock  being  narrow  from  back  to  front 
and  also  on  account  of  its  being  weak.  Over  exertion  is  the  principal 
cause. 

SYMPTOMS. — A swelling  usually  appears  suddenly  on  the  back  part 
of  the  hock  which  is  tender  on  pressure  and  is  generally  inflamed.  The 
lameness  is  usually  noticeable  but  in  some  cases  it  is  very  slight.  It  is  best 
seen  by  looking  at  it  sideways.  The  least  curve  on  the  back  part  of  the  hock 
indicates  a curb. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  does  not  differ  from  any  other  sprain 
of  a ligament  or  tendon.  It  is  import^mt  to  give  the  animal  rest.  Reduce 


CAPPED  HOCK. 


BONE  SPAVIN. 


SIDE  BONE. 


BOG  SPAVIN. 


SPLINT. 


LINE  EIRING. 


CURB. 


RING-BONE. 


HORSE— LAMENESS. 


79 


the  inflammation  by  applying  cold  water  or  put  one-half  pound  of  sugar 
of  lead  into  a gallon  of  water  and  apply  five  or  six  times  a day.  After  the 
inflammation  subsides  blister  with  cerate  of  cantharides  or  apply  one  part 
of  red  iodide  of  mercury  and  eight  parts  of  lard  or  vaseline. 

SPLINT. — A splint  is  a hard  bony  bunch  situated  on  the  cannon  bone 
on  either  side  of  the  foreleg  but  most  often  on  the  inside  and  just  below 
the  knee.  Sometimes  they  are  on  the  hind  legs,  but  not  very  often.  When 
they  are  situated  close  to  the  knee  and  affect  the  joint  or  are  close  to  the 
suspensory  ligament  they  produce  lameness  but  if  situated  on  the  shaft  of 
the  bone  they  seldom  do  much  harm.  When  a splint  is  forming  it  generally 
produces  slight  lameness  when  the  horse  trots  on  hard  roads,  but  he  walks 
sound. 

CAUSES. — Concussion  is  the  general  cause  of  splints.  They  also  come 
from  blows,  kicks,  bruises  and  sprains.  Striking  the  shin  with  the  opposite 
foot  causes  a great  many  splints. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  first  forming  the  colt  may  walk  sound  and  trot 
lame.  The  shin  is  usually  hot  and  tender  but  if  not  near  the  knee  the  sore- 
ness soon  disappears. 

TREATMENT. — Give  the  colt  rest  and  apply  either  hot  or  cold  water 
for  a few  days.  Apply  the  following  lotion : sugar  of  lead,  one-fourth  pound ; 
tincture  arnica,  one  pint ; water,  one  gallon ; apply  five  times  daily.  Later 
apply  liniment,  iodine  ointment  or  a light  blister. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SPLINTS.— 

1.  Iodine. — Apply  tincture  of  iodine  daily  for  five  or  six  weeks.  This 
will  frequently  remove  splints. 

2.  Ointment  for  Splints. — Make  an  ointment  of  three  ounces  of  lard, 
three  drams  of  powdered  cantharides  and  two  drams  of  biniodide  of  mer- 
cury. Clip  the  hair  from  the  parts  and  rub  in  the  ointment  for  fifteen  min- 
utes. On  the  third  day  apply  sweet  oil  or  lard  to  soften  and  remove  scab. 
These  applications  should  be  repeated  three  times  a month. 

THOROUGH-PIN. — Thorough-pin  is  very  often  associated  with  bog 
spavin  and  is  a bursal  enlargement,  usually  in  connection  with  the  flexor 
muscle  or  capsular  ligament  of  the  hock  joint.  It  rarely  produces  lameness; 
therefore,  it  is  not  considered  a serious  ailment. 

CAUSES. — It  is  generally  the  result  of  a sprain;  however,  many  of  the 
heavy  breeds  of  horses  appear  to  be  heir  to  this  ailment  for  this  puffy  con- 
dition of  the  joint  appears  at  or  soon  after  birth. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  this  trouble  there  is  always  a puffy  swelling  on  each 
side  of  the  hock  joint.  It  is  not  painful.  When  pressure  is  applied  to  one 
side  it  increases  the  bulging  on  the  opposite  side. 

TREATMENT. — If  there  is  lameness  the  horse  should  be  rested  and 
the  inflammation  subdued  v/ith  either  hot  or  cold  applications.  Or,  put 
Ui  pound  of  sugar  of  lead  into  one  gallon  of  cold  water  and  apply  to  the 
joint  five  or  six  times  a day,  then  apply  cerate  of  cantharides  once  a week. 
Where  the  swelling  is  very  great  the  fluid  can  be  removed  and  a truss 
applied  to  prevent  further  distension;  however,  this  work  should  be  done 
by  a skillful  veterinarian  and  even  then  it  should  not  be  done  unless  the 
horse  is  to  receive  extra  good  care  after  the  operation.  It  is  always  difficult 
to  reduce  a thorough-pin  and  almost  impossible  to  entirely  remove  it.  It 
is  considered  by  veterinarians  to  be  good  practice  to  leave  a thorough-pin 
alone  if  it  is  not  very  large  and  produces  no  lameness.  Equal  parts  of  spirits 


80 


THE^:  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


of  camphor  and  tincUirc  of  iodine  have  given  me  very  good  results  in  the 
treatment  of  thorough-pin  w^ithout  resting  the  horse. 

OPEN  JOINT.— T his  results  from  an  injury  caused  by  either  a sharp 
or  dull  pointed  substance  making  a wound  which  penetrates  the  inner  struc- 
tures of  the  joint  and  allows  the  synovial  fluid  to  escape.  If  there  is  a 
simple,  small  puncture,  or  cut,  the  wound  may  close  quickly  but  if  the  tissues 
are  badly  bruised  and  lacerated  considerable  inflammation  follows  and  the 
case  becomes  serious. 

TREATMENT. — One  of  the  greatest  mistakes  that  is  usually  made  is 
the  probing  of  such  wound  with  a dirty  probe.  This  very  often  infects  the 
joint  and  makes  the  case  a difflcult  one  to  treat  while  if  it  had  been  let  alone 
a recovery  might  have  taken  place.  It  is  always  a good  plan  to  remove 
sand  or  gritty  matter  or  hairs  and  dirt  that  may  have  been  punched  into 
the  wound  at  the  time  of  the  accident.  The  edges  of  the  wound  should  be 
stitched  closely  together  and  hot  packs  dipped  in  a lotion  composed  of  one 
part  bi-chloride  of  mercury  and  one  thousand  parts  of  water  should  be  kept 
on  constantly  for  several  days.  The  animal  should  be  kept  perfectly  quiet. 
It  is  fairly  good  practice  to  apply  a light  blister  to  that  part  of  the  joint 
not  wounded.  This  produces  swelling  and  vety  often  closes  a wound,  thus 
giving  it  an  opportunity  to  protect  the  open  joint  and  allowing  an  adhesion 
and  union  of  the  edges  which  otherwise  could  not  have  taken  place.  The 
greatest  danger  lies  in  the  movement  of  the  joint,  which  of  course  stimulates 
the  secretion  of  synovia,  thus  making  the  case  worse.  One  part  carbolic 
acid  and  thirty  parts  water  is  a good  dressing;  or,  dissolve  one  ounce  of 
powdered  alum  or  one  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  or  one  ounce  of  sulphate  of 
zinc  in  a quart  of  water.  Any  of  the  three  are  proper  remedies  to  apply. 
I have  obtained  good  results  by  dusting  on  equal  parts  of  iodoform,  boric 
acid  and  powdered  alum  once  a day.  In  treating  such  cases,  remember  that 
they  seldom  recover  unless  the  animal  is  kept  from  moving  about. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  EOR  OPEN  JOINT,  OLD  SORES, 
SCRATCHES,  ETC.— 

1.  Alum,  Bluestone,  Vinegar,  Etc. — To  a pint  of  good  vinegar  add 
one  ounce  each  of  powdered  alum,  bluestone  and  sugar  of  lead.  Bathe  the 
parts  for  fifteen  minutes  with  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  and  then  apply 
this  lotion.  This  recipe  has  saved  a number  of  valuable  horses. 

HIP  JOINT  LAMENESS— ARTHRITIS  OF  HIP  JOINT— WHIRL- 
BONE  LAMENESS. — Lameness  of  this  kind  is  not  common ; nevertheless, 
it  is  astonishing  how  many  horsemen  hold  to  the  opinion  that  their  horse  is 
lame  in  the  “ whirlbone,”  as  they  call  it,  when  they  are  lame  elsewhere. 
The  hip  joint  is  well  protected  and  is  really  the  strongest  joint  'in  the 
body,  being  formed  of  some  of  the  heaviest  bones  and  held  in  place  by  a 
powerful  ligament;  besides,  it  is  well  protected  by  heavy  muscles.  In- 
flammation may  occur  in  the  joint,  the  result  of  injury,  and  we  find  rheumatic 
trouble  in  this  joint,  but  it  is  seldom  sprained. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  the  hip  joint  is  inflamed  the  foot  is  raised  from 
the  ground  and  is  lowered  against  the  will  of  the  animal.  This  is  on  ac- 
count of  the  lameness  being  painful.  Atrophy  of  the  muscles  is  pretty 
sure  to  follow  lameness  of  the  hip  joint  if  it  lasts  a few  weeks.  There  is 
always  difficulty  in  bringing  the  limb  forward  and  the  toe  is  dragged  near 
the  ground.  In  some  cases  it  is  well  to  use  the  old  test  by  placing  a piece 
of  board  over  the  hip  joint  and  striking  it  a blow  with  a mallet,  which 


FRACTURE  OF  THE  FEMUR. 


INFLAMAIATION  OF  THE 
KIDNEYS. 

(Chronic.) 


SPRAIN  OF  THE  PATELLA 
LIGAMENTS. 


COLD  ABSCESS,  SITFAST,  BOG 
SPAVIN  AND  THOROUGHPIN. 

A sitfast  (fibrous  tumor)  weighing  2V:i 
lbs.  was  removed  from  this  horse’s  shoul- 
der at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hospital. 
Note  bog  spavin  and  thoroughpin  on 
each  hind  leg  and  also  large  cold  abscess 
on  shoulder  just  above  elbow. 


DISLOCATION  OF  PATELLA- 
STIFLED. 

Horse  drags  stifled  leg. 


INFLAMMATION  OF  THE 
BLADDER. 


HORSE— LAMENESS. 


81 


causes  great  pain  if  the  hip  joint  is  sore  and  inflamed.  Should  this  test 
fail,  look  for  the  lameness  in  some  other  part  of  the  leg. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  hot  fomentations  and  give  the  animal  rest.  If 
occurring  in  the  summer  season,  use  cold  water  and  if  in  winter,  use  hot 
water.  Apply  equal  parts  of  turpentine,  tincture  cantharides,  aqua  ammonia 
and  sweet  oil  every  day  or  two  and  if  you  find  it  necessary  to  blister  use 
cerate  of  cantharides.  I have  frequently  obtained  good  results  from  setons. 
I dislike  to  put  them  into  the  hip  during  hot  weather  but  for  a deep-seated 
ailment  like  this  they  are  of  great  value. 

DISLOCATION  OF  THE  PATELLA— STIFLED.— The  stifle  of  the 
horse  is  very  much  like  the  knee  of  man  and  when  a dislocation  takes  place 
the  cap  slips  out  of  the  pulley-like  groove  in  the  bone  in  the  front  part  of 
the  stifle  joint  and  of  course  when  this  happens  the  leg  locks  and  it  is  im- 
possible for  the  animal  to  lift  his  foot  forward.  A dislocation  is  generally 
caused  by  the  foot  slipping  backward  and  the  limb  twisting  when  the 
weight  of  the  body  is  on  it. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  the  stifle  bone  is  out  of  place  the  leg  is  generally 
kept  back  of  the  body  with  the  foot  close  to  the  ground.  The  stifle  appears 
to  be  swollen. 

TREATMENT. — In  some  cases  starting  the  animal  with  a whip  will 
cause  him  to  bring  the  limb  forward  suddenly  and  the  cap  will  slip  into 
place ; however,  it  is  usually  necessary  to  draw  the  foot  forward  cither  by 
lifting  it  or  attaching  a rope  or  strap  round  the  fetlock  and  passing  it  through 
a collar  on  the  neck  and  pulling  it  forward  and  when  in  this  position  an  as- 
sistant should  press  the  bone  into  position.  Apply  cerate  of  cantharides  to 
the  stifle  joint  as  a blister.  Sometimes  it  is  necessary  to  keep  the  foot  tied 
forward  and  the  hind  feet  a little  higher  than  the  forefeet. 

SPRAIN  OF  THE  STIFLE  JOINT.— When  the  ligaments  of  the  stifle 
joint  become  stretched  from  slipping  or  from  an  injury,  setting  up  inflamma- 
tion and  causing  the  animal  to  have  trouble  in  bringing  the  leg  forward,  we 
are  led  to  believe  that  he  suffers  from  a sprain  of  the  joint. 

TREATMENT. — If  occurring  in  the  summer,  shower  the  stifle  with 
cold  water  three  or  four  times  a day,  or  dissolve  % pound  of  sugar  of  lead 
in  a gallon  of  water  and  apply  this  lotion  five  times  a day,  or  dissolve  Vt 
pound  saltpeter  in  % gallon  of  vinegar  and  add  a gallon  of  water  and  apply 
this  lotion  five  times  a day.  After  the  inflammation  subsides  apply  any  good 
home  liniment  twice  a day;  or,  use  .equal  parts  of  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia 
and  raw  linseed  oil  once  a day  and  later  on  if  it  is  thought  necessary  blister 
with  cerate  of  cantharides. 

STONE  BRUISES— BRUISES  OF  THE  SOLE  OF  THE  FOOT.— 

CAUSES. — Horses  with  flat  weak  soles  frequently  bruise  the  bottom 
of  the  foot  by  stepping  on  pebbles,  clinkers,  pieces  of  brick,  bolt  heads  and 
other  hard  substances. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  bruised  foot  soon  becomes  hot  and  tapping  the 
sole  with  a small  hammer  or  block  of  wood  causes  considerable  pain.  If  al- 
lowed to  go  on,  the  coronet  swells  and  the  inflammation  increases ; the 
lameness  also  becomes  more  noticeable  and  in  some  cases  the  horse  will 
scarcely  put  his  foot  to  the  ground.  He  usually  holds  the  lame  foot  in  advance 
of  the  other  foot  and  steps  either  unusually  long  or  quite  short. 

TREATMENT. — If  he  is  shod,  remove  the  shoe;  tap  the  sole  of  the 
loot  lightly  to  locate  the  sore  spot  and  if  you  suspect  that  pus  has  formed 
6 


82 


THE  PEOPLE^S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


cut  through  the  sole,  making  a very  small  opening  and  then  pour  in  equal 
parts  of  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  water  and  then  apply  one  part  carbolic  acid 
and  thirty  parts  water  or  a good  healing  powder  composed  of  equal  parts  of 
iodoform,  powdered  alum  and  boric  acid.  If  the  opening  through  the  sole 
is  made  large,  proud  flesh  is  liable  to  grow  in  the  wound  and  if  it  does, 
apply  burnt  alum  or  crude  carbolic  acid  or  cut  it  off  with  a sharp  knife  or 
burn  it  down  with  a point  of  a red  hot  iron  and  continue  applying  healing 
remedies. 

SPEEDY  CUT — BRUISED  KNEE. — This  usually  results  from  a blow 
with  the  opposite  foot  in  horses  that  have  high  knee  action  and  that  have 
narrow  chests  or  toe  out.  Horses  driven  in  deep  snow  are  inclined  to  strike 
their  knees.  Following  the  blow  there  is  more  or  less  swelling  on  the  inside 
of  the  knee  and  it  is  not  unusual  to  have  a serous  sac  or  an  abscess  form 
which  contains  pus. 

TREATMENT. — When  first  noticed  the  inflammatory  stage  can  be 
subdued  by  the  continued  use  of  either  hot  or  cold  applications  and  some 
cooling  astringent  lotion  such  as  is  made  by  dissolving  one-quarter  pound 
acetate  of  lead  in  a gallon  of  cold  water  and  adding  one  pint  of  fluid  ex- 
tract of  arnica.  These  applications  should  be  made  five  or  six  times  a 
day.  The  knee  should  not  be  bandaged  unless  by  an  expert.  If  much  fluid 
forms  it  may  be  necessary  to  allow  it  to  escape  through  a small  tube  or  if 
pus  forms  it  should  be  allowed  to  escape  with  proper  drainage,  then  treat 
it  as  an  abscess.  Certain  horses,  from  conformation,  can  scarcely  be  shod  so 
they  will  not  strike  their  knees,  especially  when  going  fast.  The  lighter 
the  shoes,  the  less  knee  action ; besides,  if  the  inside  of  the  shoe  is  made 
a little  heavier  this  has  a tendency  to  carry  the  foot  out.  The  head  should 
not  be  reined  up  high.  The  horse  should  be  driven  slow  on  rough  roads 
and  when  turning  a corner.  I have  owned  many  horses  which  required  the 
knees  to  be  protected  with  boots  when  they  were  driven  fast,  no  matter 
how  capable  the  shoer  might  have  been.  However,  I recommend  having 
a horse  of  this  kind  shod  by  the  best  mechanic  you  can  find. 

SPRUNG  HOCK. — Sprung  hock  is  a sprain  of  the  ligaments  of  the  hock 
joint,  bringing  on  an  inflamed  condition  of  the  parts  and  usually  resulting  in 
an  enlargement  of  the  joint.  It  usually  occurs  in  animals  with  crooked  joints. 

CAUSES. — This  condition  is  usually  the  result  of  injuries  following  a 
runaway  or  is  caused  by  falls,  slipping,  kicks,  blows  or  fractures. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  is  usually  very  lame  and  stands  with  the 
hock  flexed,  never  attempting  to  place  any  weight  upon  the  limb.  In  se- 
vere cases  the  whole  joint  is  badly  swollen  and  very  tender;  this  should  be 
regarded  as  a serious  injury. 

TREATMENT. — In  all  such  cases  it  is  impoitant  to  give  the  animal 
absolute  rest.  Apply  either  hot  or  cold  applications  constantly  and  when 
the  inflammation  and  pain  subside,  apply  iodine  ointment  or  some  stimulating 
and  mildly  counter-irritating  liniment,  such  as  equal  parts  turpentine,  aqua 
ammonia  and  sweet  oil,  or  any  other  good  home  liniment  you  may  have 
on  hand. 

CAPPED  HOCK. — Capped  hock  is  due  to  distension  of  a small  bursa 
situated  beneath  the  skin  on  the  point  of  the  hock.  Or,  it  may  be  a distended 
bursa  situated  deeper  and  when  the  deeper-seated  parts  are  affected  it  is 
more  serious. 

CAUSES. — Capped  hock  is  generally  caused  by  kicking  against  the  stall, 


horse— LAMENESS. 


83 


or  by  kicks  or  blows.  The  heavy  breeds  of  horses  are  the  most  likely  to 
become  affected.  This  is  perhaps  on  account  of  their  sluggish  circulation. 
It  also  seems  to  follow  debilitating  diseases. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a soft,  puffy  and  very  often  painless  swelling 
on  the  point  of  the  hock,  containing  a water-like  effusion. 

TREATMENT. — The  secret  of  success  in  the  treatment  of  capped  hock 
generally  lies  in  one’s  being  able  to  remove  the  cause;  hence,  if  caused  by 
kicking  in  the  stable  in  a single  stall,  remove  the  horse  to  a box  stall  or  pad 
the  single  stall.  Hot  water  applications  are  proper  for  early  treatment  and 
should  be  followed  by  daily  applications  of  equal  parts  of  alcohol,  tincture 
of  iodine  and  spirits  of  camphor.  When  it  becomes  necessary  to  open  the 
sack  it  should  be  done  with  great  care  and  cleanliness.  A small  opening 
should  be  made  and  the  parts  kept  wet  with  one  part  bichloride  mercury  and 
500  parts  tepid  water.  This  will  keep  the  parts  from  becoming  infected. 
Fairly  good  results  follow  applications  of  red  iodide  of  mercury,  one  part, 
and  lard,  eight  parts ; apply  this  every  week  or  ten  days.  This  should  be 
the  treatment  in  chronic  cases. 

CAPPED  ELBOW— ELBOW  TUMOR— SHOE  BOIL.— 

CAUSES. — These  are  usually  caused  by  the  heels  of  the  shoe  when  the 
horse  is  obliged  to  lie  down  in  a very  narrow  stall.  They  are  also  caused  by 
the  harness  and  by  blows. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  first  a hot,  tender  swelling  and  if  not  treated 
properly  and  the  cause  removed  this  grows  and  increases  in  size  until  it  be- 
comes very  large  and  especially  is  this  true  if  it  occurs  in  hot  weather. 
A few  days  after  the  injury  the  swelling  will  fluctuate,  indicating  that  it 
contains  fluid  and  this  fluid  being  serum  may  do  very  little  harm.  In  other 
cases  pus  forms,  which  generally  makes  the  horse  quite  lame.  If  the  swell- 
ing contains  serum,  it  may  be  absorbed  and  the  bunch  almost  disappear, 
but  if  it  contains  pus  it  should  be  opened. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  either  hot  or  cold  applications;  I prefer  cold 
applications  in  summer  and  hot  ones  in  winter.  If  the  swelling  contains 
serum  and  is  not  very  large  apply  tincture  of  iodine  once  or  twice  a day  and 
it  will  perhaps  cause  the  fluid  to  be  absorbed,  but  if  the  swelling  is^  exten- 
sive and  contains  much  fluid  it  should  be  drawn  off  with  a canula  and  trocar 
and  the  sac  injected  with  a small  quantity  of  tincture  of  iodine  once  a day. 
In  many  cases  I find  it  good  treatment  to  lay  the  sac  freely  open  and  if  it 
contains  a hard  bunch,  cut  it  out.  Chronic  elbow  tumors  can  be  treated 
successfully  in  no  other  way  than  by  cutting  them  out.  Following  an  opera- 
tion of  this  kind  the  wound  always  heals  slowly.  Apply  peroxide  of  hydrogen 
twice  a day  and  dust  on  equal  parts  of  iodoform,  boric  acid  and  tannic  acid, 
but  be  sure  to  prevent  his  bruising  the  sore  parts.  In  some  cases  I find 
it  necessary  to  keep  the  horse  in  a standing  position  until  the  wound  heals, 
and  horses  that  bruise  their  elbow  should  wear  a roll  around  each  pastern 
to  prevent  the  shoe  from  coming  in  contact  with  the  elbow. 


WOUNDS. 

(Including  Abscesses,  Poll-Evil,  Fistulous  Withers,  Saddle  Galls,  Sore 
Shoulders  and  Wounds  of  all  Kinds.) 


WOUNDS. — Wounds  are  a division  of  the  soft  structure  of  the  body 
and  are  named  according  to  their  appearance,  depending  on  how  and  by 
what  sort  of  an  instrument  they  were  produced. 

INCISED  WOUNDS. — Incised  wounds  are  those  made  with  a sharp 
knife  or  some  sharp  substance  making  a clean  cut  and  their  length  is  greater 
than  their  depth.  When  a muscle  is  cut  off  the  wound  always  gaps  wide  open, 
much  more  so  than  if  the  muscle  is  cut  lengthwise  and  when  cut  transversely 
it  makes  a bad-looking  wound. 

PUNCTURED  WOUNDS. — Punctured  wounds  are  those  made  with  a 
dull  instrument  or  stick  and  may  be  caused  in  hundreds  of  different  ways. 
There  is  no  use  of  enumerating  them  but  a punctured  wound  should  always 
be  looked  upon  as  being  much  more  serious  than  an  incised  wound. 

LACERATED  WOUNDS. — Lacerated  wounds  are  those  which  are 
more  or  less  torn.  They  are  not  very  deep  and  are  often  caused  from  com- 
ing in  contact  with  wire,  being  kicked  by  a horse  or  running  against  some 
sharp  substance,  but  these  wounds  are  not  often  serious. 

CONTUSED  WOUNDS. — Contused  wounds  are  those  caused  by  bump- 
ing against  blunt  things  or  are  inflicted  by  a blow  or  by  over-reaching  or 
striking  or  by  being  kicked  by  a horse  without  a shoe  or  with  a dull  shoe. 

WOUNDS  AT  THE  JOINTS. — These  are  quite  often  serious  for  there 
may  be  open  joint  in  connection  and  if  so  they  are  not  easily  treated  success- 
fully. They  may  be  caused  by  a splinter  of  wood  or  by  a pitchfork  prong. 
Whenever  the  discharge  is  stringy  and  odorless  and  the  animal  very  lame  it 
indicates  open  joint. 

POISC)NED  WOUNDS. — These  are  those  made  by  a snake  but  are  not 
common  in  this  country.  Of  course  many  wounds  are  poisoned  by  things 
people  apply  but  this  should  not  be  the  case. 

TREATMENT  OF  WOUNDS. — In  the  treatment  of  wounds  it  is  well 
to  keep  in  mind  that  the  bleeding  should  be  arrested  first.  If  an  artery  is 
opened  it  should  be  tied  at  once  with  fine  silk,  linen,  or  catgut  and  if  it  is  to 
be  left  in  it  should  be  a substance  which  will  be  absorbed  without  causing  any 
irritation  or  suppuration ; hence  the  necessity  of  using  sterilized  catgut.  The 
wound  should  be  irrigated  or  washed  out  with  one  part  bi-chloride  of  mercury 
and  one  thousand  parts  tepid  water;  then  the  edges  of  the  wound  should 
be  brought  together  and  stitched  closely.  If  the  parts  are  clean  when  the 
sewing  is  done  and  the  animal  is  kept  in  a clean  place  the  wound  will  gen- 
erally heal  rapidly.  It  must  be  remembered  that  if  impure  air  is  kept  away 
from  a wound  it  will  suppurate  less  and  heal  more  quickl}^  There  is  always 
a great  difference  of  opinion  as  to  what  remedy  will  heal  a wound  most 
quickly.  I am  of  the  opinion  that  many  of  the  simple  home  remedies  are 
as  good  as  any  and  a wound  generally  does  well  if  it  has  plenty  of  pure  fresh 
air.  Keeping  wounded  animals  in  dirty,  filthy  stables  and  barnyards  is 

84 


KX  EE-SPRUNG. 

A very  bad  ease. 

(Photographed  espeeially  for  this  l)ook.) 


WIND  PUFFS  OR  BURSAE  ENEARGEMENTS. 

Thirty-year-old  horse  with  bursal  enlargements  (wind  puffs)  on  knee  and  hind 
fetloeks.  (Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hospital  especially  for  this  book.) 


HORSE— WOUNDS. 


85 


bad  practice  for  they  seldom  do  well.  Most  of  the  modern  healing  remedies 
are  superior  to  the  old  ones.  I have  obtained  good  results  by  using  peroxide 
of  h}Mrogen,  carbolic  acid,  coal-tar  preparations,  acetate  of  lead,  sulphate  of 
zinc,  tannin,  boric  acid,  alum,  oxide  of  zinc  and  bi-chloride  of  mercury.  Use 
but  one  of  these  and  of  course  in  water  as  they  should  generally  be  reduced. 
Nearly  all  watery  lotions  should  be  applied  twice  a day.  If  a wound  fills 
with  a fungus,  burn  it  with  nitrate  of  silver  or  other  caustic  or  burn  with  a 
red-hot  iron. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  WOUNDS,  CUTS,  ETC.— 

1.  Kerosene  Oil. — Frequently  apply  kerosene  oil  to  the  cuts.  It  is  an 
. inexpensive  remedy  but  it  is  as  good  as  anything  that  can  be  used. 

2.  Lard  and  Tar. — Mix  equal  parts  of  lard  and  pine  tar  and  apply 
freely  to  cuts  and  sores.  This  is  not  only  healing  but  it  also  keeps  the  flies 
away. 

3.  Onions  and  Lard. — Boil  onions  in  lard  and  make  as  strong  of  onion  as 
possible.  This  should  be  strained  and  of  course  kept  clean.  Apply  to  flesh 
wounds  once  a day. 

4.  Vinegar,  Eggs,  Turpentine  and  Ammonia. — Take  equal  parts  of 
these,  shake  well,  let  stand  10  or  12  hours  and  apply  twice  a day. 

5.  Glycerine  and  Carbolic  Acid. — Bathe  the  parts  with  a mixture  of 
one  part  of  carbolic  acid  with  ten  or  fifteen  parts  of  glycerine. 

G.  Alum  or  Bluestone. — If  proud  flesh  appears  it  should  be  treated  with 
either  burnt  alum  or  powdered  bluestone. 

7.  Wounds  and  Cuts. — To  8 ounces  of  linseed  oil  add  one  ounce  of  car- 
bolic acid  and  one  dram  each  of  oxide  of  zinc  and  iodoform.  This  should  be 
mixed  thoroughly  and  applied  twice  a day. 

8.  Burns  and  Scalds. — Bathe  the  parts  with  a solution  of  common  bak- 
ing soda  or  a weak  solution  of  sugar  of  lead. 

9.  Lime  Water  and  Linseed  Oil  for  Scalds  and  Burns. — Apply  a mix- 
ture of  equal  parts  of  lime  water  and  linseed  oil.  This  mixture  is  called  car- 
ron  oil  ” and  is  one  of  the  best  things  known  for  burns  and  scalds  on  either 
man  or  beast. 

10.  Carbolic  Acid  and  Sweet  Oil  for  Cuts. — Apply  one  part  carbolic  acid 
and  ten  parts  sweet  oil  to  wounds  twice  a day. 

SCREW  WORMS  OR  MAGGOTS  IN  WOUNDS.— (See  “ Cattle  De- 
partment.”) 

AIR  UNDER  THE  SKIN.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

PUNCTURED  WOUNDS  OF  THE  FEET.— Punctured  wounds  are  of 
frequent  occurrence  in  cities  and  especially  about  glass  works  and  iron  and 
nail  mills. 

CAUSES. — Punctures  of  the  feet  are  most  commonly  caused  by  step- 
ping on  nails,  pieces  of  iron,  sharp  stones,  cinders,  broken  pieces  of  glass, 
sharp  snags  of  wood  or  any  sharp  uneven  substance. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  is  generally  not  very  difficult  to  tell  whether  a horse 
has  a punctured  foot  or  not  if  the  accident  has  occurred  a day  or  two  be- 
fore; however,  in  slight  cases  where  the  wound  is  not  large  or  deep,  it  is  very 
often  quite  puzzling  to  locate  it.  A puncture  of  the  foot  should  always  be 
. regarded  as  a serious  ailment  for  it  is  generally  done  with  a dull,  hard,  and 
dirty  substance ; besides,  a portion  of  dirt  is  generally  driven  into  the  foot  at 
the  time  of  the  puncture  and  if  the  substance  remains  in  any  great  length  of 
time  it  is  quite  likely  to  set  up  considerable  inflammation.  When  the  snag 


8G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


or  nail  is  pulled  out,  dirt  and  foreign  bodies  are  usually  stripped  off  and  left 
in  the  foot,  thereby  producing  inflammation  which  is  soon  followed  by  the 
formation  of  pus.  The  foot  is  usually  hot  and  tender  and  when  the  horse  is 
resting  he  stands  upon  the  toe.  In  severe  cases  the  leg  is  sometimes  swelled 
clear  to  the  body  and  is  accompanied  with  great  pain,  quick  pulse  and  often 
loss  of  appetite  and  some  fever. 

TREATMENT. — Wash  the  foot  clean,  search  for  the  seat  of  injury  and 
if  the  nail,  snag,  or  other  foreign  body  is  still  in  the  foot,  pull  it  out  and 
cut  down  to  the  bottom  of  the  wound  and  allow  the  pus  and  dirt  to  escape. 
Apply  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  ten  minutes  later  apply  one  part  carbolic 
acid  and  fifteen  parts  water ; or,  coal-tar  disinfectant  full  strength  twice  a day. 
Each  day  stand  the  horse  in  hot  water  to  which  has  been  added  one  part  of 
bi-chloride  of  mercury  to  one  thousand  parts  of  water.  Clean  and  well- 
prepared  poultices  relieve  the  pain.  Treat  these  punctures  as  advised  in 
treating  wounds. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  NAIL  PUNCTURES.— 

1.  Lye  Water  and  Poultices. — Stand  the  foot  in  lye  made  of  wood  ashes 
and  hot  water.  After  two  hours  in  this  lye  make  a poultice  of  the  lye  and 
some  corn  meal  and  apply  to  the  foot  keeping  on  for  six  hours  but  changing 
frequently  to  keep  it  hot. 

2.  Peach  Leaves. — Put  some  juice  obtained  from  peach  leaves  into  the 
wound  and  bind  on  some  of  the  crushed  leaves  which  should  be  moistened. 
This  will  be  found  a very  effective  remedy. 

3.  Coal  Tar  Disinfectant. — Apply  one  part  coal  tar  disinfectant  and  ten 
parts  water  to  wound  twice  a day. 

4.  Powdered  Borax. — Fill  the  wound  with  powdered  borax  and  cover  it 
with  cotton  batting  or  wool. 

PRICKING. — Whenever  a horse  shoer  drives  a nail  into  the  sensitive 
foot  instead  of  through  the  insensitive  horn  or  wall  of  the  hoof,  we  call  it 
pricking;  however,  it  may  have  been  entirely  accidental. 

CAUSES. — In  most  cases  it  is  the  result  of  carelessness  on  the  part  of 
the  horse  shoer.  A nail  sometimes  splits,  one  part  going  into  the  sensitive 
foot  and  the  other  going  in  as  it  should.  Sometimes  a nail  is  driven  into  and 
withdrawn  from  the  sensitive  foot  without  even  the  knowledge  of  the  shoer. 
Nails  fast  in  boards  or  frozen  ground  very  often  puncture  the  sole  of  the  foot 
and  pull  out. 

SYMPTOMS. — Whenever  a horse  steps  on  the  toe  and  keeps  the  heel 
of  the  foot  up,  also  when  it  keeps  the  foot  off  the  ground  and  the  foot  is  very 
hot,  be  sure  to  examine  for  foot  punctures  or  pricks.  If  a nail  is  driven  too 
high,  tap  the  hoof  opposite  the  nail  and  if  he  is  pricked  this  tapping  will 
hurt  him. 

TREATMENT. — Remove  the  cause  as  quickly  as  possible  and  this  is 
best  done  by  pulling  out  the  nail.  Treat  the  puncture  as  I have  directed  for 
punctured  wounds. 

WOUNDS  OF  THE  LIPS.— (See  Cattle  Department.”) 

BITES  OF  INSECTS  AND  SNAKES.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

FRACTURE  OF  THE  HIP  BONE— HIPPED.— In  young  animals 
the  little  nodule  on  the  extreme  angle  of  the  hip  is  often  broken  off  by 
blows  before  it  has  become  firm  with  the  parent  bone,  but  the  most  common 
injury  of  the  hip  of  both  young  and  old  are  fracture  of  the  bone  and  a frac- 
ture of  the  hip  seldom  takes  place  without  the  point  remaining  somewhat 


HORSE— WOUNDS. 


87 


lower  than  the  opposite  side  and  also  a little  ways  in,  thus  giving  the  point 
of  the  hip  a smooth  appearance. 

CAUSES. — It  is  caused  by  falling  on  hard  ground,  by  blows,  coming  in 
contact  with  the  sides  of  doors  or  stall  posts  and  fracturing  the  bone  or  bones 
of  the  hip. 

TREATMENT. — As  a rule  the  animal  should  be  placed  in  slings  to  keep 
him  in  a quiet  condition  until  the  bones  unite.  In  some  cases  a fibrous 
union  takes  place  which  means  a poor  and  unsatisfactory  recovery;  however, 
if  the  bones  of  a young  horse  are  kept  in  proper  position  a bony  union  gen- 
erally takes  place  and  a satisfactory  recovery  follows.  Hot  fomentations 
relieve  the  pain  somewhat  and  should  be  kept  up  constantly  for  two  or  three 
days  after  the  accident  occurs  and  it  is  well  to  apply  equal  parts  of  tincture 
of  arnica,  laudanum,  spirits  of  camphor  and  witch  hazel,  three  or  four  times 
a day  and  if  this  mixture  produces  pain  add  some  water  to  it.  A hipped 
horse  usually  steps  a little  shorter  with  his  imperfect  hip  and  hitches  some 
when  trotting,  but  many  of  them  are  about  as  useful  after  the  accident  as  be- 
fore. If  the  bones  are  badly  shattered  the  horse  should  be  destroyed. 

ABSCESS. — Abscesses  consist  of  accumulations  of  water,  serum  or 
pus  and  are  generally  held  within  a wall  and  may  arise  in  any  part  of  the 
body.  They  are  usually  classed  as  acute  and  cold,  the  latter  being  of  a 
chronic  character.  Acute  abscesses  are  generally  found  in  the  glands  or 
muscular  parts  of  the  body. 

CAUSES. — Abscesses  are  very  often  the  result  of  a bruise  or  injury  of 
some  kind  or  they  may  be  the  result  of  infection ; also,  many  germ  diseases, 
such  as  strangles  or  distemper,  appear  to  terminate  in  abscesses.  Whenever 
an  animal  suffers  from  blood  poisoning  he  is  very  likely  to  have  an  abscess 
in  some  part  of  the  body.  It  is  also  a common  termination  of  tuberculosis 
and  of  lung,  kidney  and  liver  diseases.  Abscesses  very  often  form  in  the 
chest  or  abdomen. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  an  abscess  is  the  result  of  a bruise  it  is  more  or 
less  inflamed  and  tender,  usually  increasing  in  size  and  tenderness  until  it 
is  either  opened  or  breaks  of  itself.  When  abscesses  form  in  the  body  the 
animal  usually  suffers  from  chills  and  fever. 

TREATMENT. — Whenever  you  think  that  an  abscess  is  forming  the 
aim  should  be  to  hasten  its  development  as  rapidly  as  possible.  This  is 
best  accomplished  by  hot  fomentations  and  poultices.  The  principal  object 
of  poultices  is  to  keep  up  the  heat  and  moisture.  Constant  application  of 
fomentations  of  hot  water  or  hot  packs  or  a hot  water  bag  are  of  great 
service  in  hastening  suppuration  or  the  forming  of  pus.  I have  also  found 
daily  applications  of  the  following  liniment  to  have  a good  effect.  Take  tur- 
pentine, one  part;  aqua  ammonia,  one  part  and  sweet  oil,  six  parts.  If  you 
have  no  sweet  oil  use  raw  linseed  oil.  It  will  do  no  harm  to  make  these  appli- 
cations twice  a day.  As  soon  as  the  hair  plucks  out  easily  and  the  swelling 
fluctuates,  open  and  allow  the  pus  to  escape.  Inject  some  peroxide  of  hydrogen 
and  ten  minutes  later  use  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts  water  or  any 
other  useful  home  healing  remedy.  Chronic  cold  abscesses  should  be  opened 
or  cut  out  if  possible. 

COLD  ABSCESS. — Cold  abscess  is  a term  applied  to  a swelling 
that  usually  contains  pus  in  its  center.  These  abscesses  are  very  often  sit- 
uated on  the  neck,  shoulder,  or  withers  and  may  be  of  enormous  size  and 
gradually  settle  down  until  they  are  not  very  large.  This  pus  1*5  usually  walled 


88 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


in  with  fibrous,  gristle-like  tissue.  Many  times  these  abscesses  apparently 
do  very  little  harm. 

CAUSES. — They  are  usually  the  result  of  a bruise  or  an  injury  of  some 
kind. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  swelling  is  seldom  painful  on  pressure,  very  often 
movable  and  not  always  deep-seated.  Swellings  of  this  kind  are  extremely 
common  on  the  lower  part  of  the  shoulders,  on  the  withers  and  on  the  poll 
or  back  part  of  the  head. 

TREATMENT. — Whenever  they  are  suspected  to  contain  pus  they 
should  be  cut  open  and,  if  possible,  their  entire  wall  removed.  Then  apply 
any  of  the  home  remedies,  such  as  lotions  made  of  sugar  of  lead;  one  ounce  to 
one  quart  of  water ; s\ilphate  of  .zinc,  one  ounce  to  one  quart  of  water ; sul- 
phate of  copper,  one-half  ounce  to  one  quart  of  water;  carbolic  acid,  one  part 
to  thirty  parts  water ; or  any  of  the  coal  tar  disinfectants  that  may  be  on 
hand.  I have  found  in  the  treatment  of  such  cases  very  little  benefit  from 
external  applications  without  opening  the  abscess ; however,  if  you  use  any 
apply  tincture  of  iodine  once  a day. 

POLL-EVIL. — Poll-evil  is  an  abscess  which  is  usually  the  result  of  an 
injury  of  some  kind  affecting  the  muscles  on  the  upper  and  fore  part  of  the 
neck.  Little  vitality  exists  in  the  diseased  parts  and  pus  very  often  burrows 
down  beneath  the  muscles  and  remains  there  until  it  affects  the  bones. 
This  ailment  is  not  now  nearly  so  common  as  many  years  ago  when  ceilings 
of  stables  were  much  lower  than  they  are  now. 

CAUSES. — Poll-evil  is  caused  in  a variety  of  ways  but  it  can  gener- 
ally be  traced  to  either  direct  or  indirect  injuries,  such  as  striking  the  head 
against  the  upper  part  of  a doorway,  wearing  badly-fitting  halters  or 
bridles,  to  jumpers  wearing  a yoke,  pressure  from  over-check,  or  blows. 
These  are  the  most  common  causes  of  abscess  on  the  poll  or  head. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  some  swelling,  heat  and  tenderness 
which,  if  not  relieved,  soon  spreads  and  if  it  persists  it  indicates  the  forma- 
tion of  pus.  The  nose  is  poked  out  somewhat  to  relieve  the  top  of  the  neck. 
In  some  cases  a sort  of  cold  abscess  forms  which  does  not  appear  to  cause 
much  trouble  and  a swelling  of  the  muscles  remains  after  the  inflammation 
of  the  parts  has  subsided. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  depends  upon  the  stage  of  the  case. 
If  but  recently  bruised,  apply  either  hot  or  cold  applications  and  give  cooling 
laxative  diet  and  the  recovery  takes  place  quickly.  If  pus  forms,  allow  it  to 
escape,  inject  one  part  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  three  parts  water  slowly  twice 
a day.  Then  inject  some  carbolic  lotion,  one  part  to  thirty  of  water;  or  coal- 
tar  disinfectant,  one  part  to  twenty  of  water,  twice  a day  after  using  the 
peroxide  of  hydrogen.  (See  treatment  for  bruises  and  abscesses,  also  Home 
Remedies  following  “ Fistulous  Withers.”) 

FISTULOUS  WITHERS. — A fistula  is  a tube-like  channel  that  dis- 
charges and  is  tardy  in  healing.  It  may  affect  any  part  of  the  body ; however, 
in  horses  the  poll  and  withers  and  heel  seem  to  be  the  favorite  locations  for 
fistulas. 

CAUSES. — They  are  usually  the  result  of  an  injury  or  bruise  of  some 
kind  causing  a swelling  to  appear  on  one  or  both  sides  of  the  withers  which 
in  a few  days  may  become  soft  and  contain  fluid.  If  left  to  itself  the  swell- 
ing increases,  breaks  and  discharges  its  contents.  The  discharge  at  first  is 
usually  thin  and  watery,  containing  some  blood  and  later  on  some  yellow 


DISTEMPER  OR  REGULAR 
STRANGLES 


POLL-EVIL. 

Often  caused  by  striking  head  against 
low  ceding. 


FISTULOUS  WITHERS. 


RIG  HEAD— OSTEO  POROSIS. 
White  lines  show  enlargement. 


WEAKNESS  OF  LIGAMENTS  OF 
LOWER  JOINTS. 

Causing  fetlocks  to  descend.  Also  curb. 


A TYPICAL  FOUNDERED  FOOT. 
In  bad  cases  the  wasting  of  the  sensi- 
tive substances  causes  shrinking  of  the 
foot. 


HORSE— WOUNDS. 


89 


particles  similar  to  pus.  The  tendency  of  the  wounds  is  to  heal  but  not  re- 
main so,  filling  up  and  breaking  open  every  few  weeks  or  months. 

TREATMENT. — Open  the  swelling  and  allow  its  contents  to  escape. 
Slowly  inject  one  part  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  three  parts  water;  this  will 
clean  out  the  pus.  Take  strips  of  muslin  that  have  been  dipped  in  per- 
chloride  of  antimony  and  insert  in  fistula  and  allow  it  to  remain  in  for  two, 
three  or  four  days,  repeating  the  application  every  three  or  five  days.  After 
the  wound  appears  to  have  been  stimulated  enough,  use  mild  healing  rem- 
edies, such  as  carbolic  acid  and  water,  one  to  tw'enty ; bi-chloride  mercury, 
one  to  one  thousand ; chloride  of  zinc,  one  to  one  thousand ; or,  dissolve  one- 
half  ounce  permanganate  of  potash  in  one  gallon  of  water  and  use  this ; or, 
use  coal  tar  disinfectant,  one  part  to  fifteen  of  water.  When  the  swelling 
first  appears,  hot  fomentations  or  cold  packs  may  prevent  effusion  or  the 
forming  of  pus.  In  chronic  cases  I believe  in  using  the  knife  freely  and  in 
some  cases  it  is  necessary  to  remove  a portion  of  the  bone  before  a cure  can 
be  effected.  For  washing  out  pus  and  washing  off  the  shoulder,  use  the 
peroxide  of  hydrogen. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FISTULA  AND  POLL-EVIL.— 

1.  Muriatic  Acid  and  Lye. — Cleanse  the  sore  thoroughly  and  drop  on 
several  drops  of  muriatic  acid  each  day  until  it  looks  like  a fresh  wound; 
then  wash  with  castile  soap  suds  and  let  it  heal.  If  there  are  pipes,  a bit 
of  concentrated  lye  may  be  wrapped  in  two  thicknesses  of  white  tissue  paper 
and  inserted  in  each  pipe.  The  lye  in  the  pipes  and  the  acid  on  the  sore  will 
cure  every  case.  Keep  the  bowels  open  while  administering  this  treatment. 

2.  Preventive  of  Fistula  and  Poll-Evil. — At  the  beginning  give  oil  or 
salts  to  open  the  bowels  and  then  give  one-fourth  ounce  of  saltpeter  three 
times  a day  in  the  feed  or  water.  Three  or  four  times  a day  pour  cold  Avater 
from  a height  upon  the  inflamed  parts.  This  pouring  should  be  continued 
for  an  hour  each  time.  If  resorted  to  in  time  this  treatment  will  prevent  an 
abscess  forming  and  any  further  trouble. 

3.  For  Fistula  or  Poll-Evil  Before  the  Formation  of  Pus. — To  6 ounces 
of  alcohol  add  4 ounces  of  camphor  gum  and  2 ounces  each  of  oil  of  spike, 
oil  of  sassafras,  oil  of  tansy  and  beef’s  gall.  This  will  be  found  a sure  cure 
if  applied  once  a day  before  the  formation  of  pus. 

SORE  BACK— SADDLE  GALLS,  COLLAR  GALLS  AND  SORE 
SHOULDERS. — These  ailments  are  usually  the  result  of  an  exciting  cause, 
such  as  friction  produced  from  badly-fitting  saddles  or  back  pads.  This  is 
also  true  regarding  sore  shoulders  and  necks  and  breasts,  which  are  almost 
invariably  the  result  of  dirty,  badly  fitting,  shoulder  or  breast  collars.  The 
soft,  tender  shoulders,  breast  and  back  of  a young  horse  should  be  toughened 
somewhat  before  he  is  put  to  hard  work  and  especially  in  warm  weather ; 
it  is  seldom  necessary  in  cold  weather  for  horses  do  not  gall  nearly  so 
easily  then. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all,  if  it  is  possible,  remove  the  cause,  which 
is  generally  a bad-fitting  harness  or  saddle.  When  starting  to  work  young 
horses  or  those  who  have  been  long  idle,  the  shoulders  should  be  washed 
with  cold  water,  adding  a tablespoonful  of  salt  to  each  quart.  This  should 
be  done  not  less  than  three  or  four  times  a day.  Or,  apply  the  following  lotion 
which  is  not  expensive  and  will  heal  and  toughen  sore  and  tender  shoulders 
and  backs.  Dissolve  four  ounces  of  sugar  of  lead,  three  ounces  of  sulphate  of 


90 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


zinc  and  two  ounces  of  tannic  acid  in  a gallon  of  cold  water  and  apply  to 
tender  parts  four  or  five  times  daily.  By  soaking  oak  bark  in  water  and  mak- 
ing a tea  and  applying  it  the  parts  will  toughen.  If  the  sore  is  raw  apply 
peroxide  of  hydrogen  twice  a day  and  ten  minutes  later  apply  equal  parts 
sub-nitrate  of  bismuth,  oxide  zinc,  powdered  alum  and  sulphur.  Nearly  all 
healing  remedies  are  proper  ones  to  apply  to  sore  shoulders  and  backs.  Re- 
member it  is  very  important  to  keep  the  collar  and  saddle  clean. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES.— 

1.  Copperas  and  Blue  Vitriol. — To  a pint  of  water  add  one  dram  of 
copperas  and  one-half  dram  of  blue  vitriol.  Wash  the  galled  spots  with  soap 
suds  before  applying  this  solution. 

2.  Milk  and  White  Lead. — Moisten  some  white  lead  with  a little  milk 
and  apply  twice  a day  to  the  galled  parts.  The  parts  should  be  washed  before 
each  application. 


i 


4 


I 


■ cfv  ■ 

- -5' 


f^;: 


t . n. 


■H  ,i 


.1 

I 


V .■ 


-.  ■ i.’ 


/ 


SFXTION  nv  THE 

1.  Cannon  bone. 

2.  Ligament  of  fetlcck  joint. 

3.  L.xtensor  pedis  tendon. 

4.  Fetlock  joint. 
r>.  Os  suffraginis. 
n.  Skin. 

7.  Capsular  ligament. 

5.  Os  CO.  o ue. 

!l.  Coronary  l;and. 

10.  I’erioplic  ring. 

11.  Coffin  joint. 

12.  Leriople. 

I'k  ( )s  pedis. 

14.  Semitive  lamina', 
lb.  Horny  wall. 


IIOOI^'  AND  PASTERN. 

Id.  Sensitive  sole. 

17.  Horny  sole. 

IS.  White  line. 

1!).  Suspensory  ligament. 

20.  White  line. 

21.  .\rticular  cartilage. 

22.  .Sesamoidian  ligaments. 

23.  Frgot. 

21.  Flexor  pedis  iierforans  tendon. 

2b.  h'lcxor  jiedis  jicrforatus  tendon. 

2(i.  Ik-ustern  joint. 

2'.  I'lantar  cushion. 

2S.  ()s  navicularis. 

20.  Sensitive  frog. 

30.  Horny  frog. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  FETLOCK,  ANKLE 
AND  FOOT. 

(Including  Ring-Bone,  Side-Bone,  Wind-Galls,  Corns,  Quarter'  Crack, 
Sand  Crack,  Quittor,  Thrush,  Over-Reaching,  Interfering,  Knuckling, 
Founder,  Etc.) 


RING-BONE. — Ring-bone  is  a ring  of  bony  material  extending  around 
th'e  pastern  just  above  the  hoof.  It  is  the  result  of  inflammation  in  the  can- 
cellated tissue  of  the  bone.  We  have  two  kinds  of  ring-bone — high  and  low. 
The  high  ring-bone  affects  the  pastern  joint,  while  the  low  kind  very  often 
involves  the  coffin  joint.  Sometimes  there  is  a deposit  of  bony  matter  on  the 
pastern,  affecting  no  joint.  This  must  be  regarded  as  less  serious  than  either 
of  the  other  two.  In  some  cases  I have  known  the  fetlock  to  become  affected. 

CAUSES. — As  in  bone  spavin  the  causes  are  predisposing,  or  constitu- 
tional, and  exciting.  The  close  inbreeding  and  the  mating  of  sire  or  dam  that 
suffers  or  has  sufTered  from  ring-bone,  are  very  likely  to  produce  offspring 
that  suffer  from  this  disease,  especially  if  they  are  subjected  to  any  of  the 
exciting  causes  to  which  I shall  refer.  Hard  work  and  fast  driving,  also  any 
severe  injury  to  the  pastern  or  foot  may  produce  ring-bone.  Improper 
shoeing  is  another  very  common  cause.  Horses  with  short,  upright  pasterns 
when  driven  fast  on  hard  roads  before  they  have  fully  matured  are  quite 
likely  to  suffer  from  ring-bone. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  a natural  enlargement 
of  the  parts  may  readily  be  mistaken  for  a ring-bone;  consequently,  many 
a sound  horse  is  subjected  to  torture  on  account  of  some  ignorant  person 
having  pronounced  him  unsound  from  ring-bone.  Occasionally  a ring-bone 
will  form  without  producing  much  pain  or  any  lameness,  but  as  a rule  the 
horse  shows  considerable  lameness  during  the  period  of*  its  development. 
When  a ring-bone  appears  on  the  foreleg  the  horse  steps  on  his  heel.  This 
is  done  to  remove  the  weight  from  the  toe.  When  it  appears  on  the  hind 
leg  the  animal  always  steps  on  his  toe,  and  when  traveling  he  brings  the 
foot  forward  carefully.  At  first  the  enlargement  is  usually  soft  but  later  on 
it  hardens.  By  flexing  (bending)  the  joint  or  trotting  the  horse  on  hard 
footing  it  always  increases  the  pain  and  lameness. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  of  ring-bone  is  very  similar  to  that  of 
bone  spavin.  First  subdue  the  inflammation  with  either  hot  or  cold  applica- 
tions. Give  him  rest  and  apply  counter-irritation.  If  the  foot  is  not  level  it 
should  be  made  so  and  light  blisters  applied.  If  they  fail,  have  the  animal 
fired.  When  blisters  and  firing  fail,  try  plantar  neurectome  for  it  is  very 
often  successful  in  relieving  the  animal  of  pain  and  making  him  go  sound. 
This  operation  consists  in  removing  an  inch  or  more  of  the  nerve,  either  above 
or  below  the  fetlock,  on  both  sides  of  the  leg.  I have  known  a bar  shoe 
to  give  considerable  relief  and  I have  also  known  many  cases  to  recover 
without  much  rest  when  the  animal  was  used  for  slow  work  on  soft  footing. 

91 


92 


THE  pb:ople's  home  stock  book. 


A ring-bone  situated  low  down  should  be  regarded  as  a serious  ailment  and 
even  when  the  disease  has  subsided  the  animal  may  go  stiff  on  account 
of  the  joint’s  being  anchylosed. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  RING-BONE,  STIFF  JOINTS, 

BUNCFIES,  ETC.— 

1.  Ring-Bone. — Apply  equal  parts  of  oil  of  origanum,  corrosive  sub- 
limate and  tincture  of  myrrh.  Use  this  carefully  as  it  is  quite  severe.  This 
gives  excellent  results. 

2.  Bunches,  Stiff  Joints  and  Ring-Bone. — To  eight  ounces  of  turpentine 
add  2 tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and  the  white  of  a dozen  eggs  and  apply  to 
bunches,  stiff  joints  or  ring-bone,  once  a day. 

SIDE-BONE. — This  consists  of  an  ossification  of  the  lateral  cartilages 
situated  partly  within  and  partly  above  the  heel  on  either  side  of  the  foot. 

CAUSES. — Side-bones  are  frequently  met  with  in  all  heavy  breeds  of 
horses  and  in  some  horses  it  is  no  doubt  the  result  of  a hereditary  tendency. 
In  the  lighter  breeds  of  horses  it  often  produces  lameness  and  is  very  often 
the  result  of  keeping  the  heels  too  high.  Another  cause  is  fast  driving  on  hard 
roads,  which  produces  a great  deal  of  concussion ; it  is  also  the  result  of  in- 
juries, such  as  punctures  and  bruises  which  set  up  an  inflammation  causing 
ossification  of  the  cartilage.  It  is  often  the  result  of  poor  shoeing,  too  much 
of  the  pressure  being  placed  on  the  wall  of  the  foot. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  an  enlargement  and  tenderness  of  the  cartilage 
with  a hardening  which  produces  lameness  in  some  cases. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  horse  is  to  be  worked,  shoe  him  with  a bar  shoe, 
applying  pressure  to  the  frog,  bar,  sole  and  wall ; besides,  it  is  important  to 
lower  the  heel  and  drive  the  horse  as  slowly  as  possible  when  on  hard  roads. 
It  is  all  the  better  if  driving  can  be  avoided.  Subdue  the  inflammation  with 
hot  or  cold  applications  and  apply  either  tincture  of  iodine,  iodine  ointment 
or  some  good  home  liniment.  Or,  apply  light  blisters  of  cerate  of  cantharides, 
or  one  part  red  iodide  of  mercury  and  twelve  parts  lard  every  few  days  until 
a recovery  takes  place.  In  my  practice  and  at  my  hospital  I often  find  it 
necessary  to  perform  a surgical  operation.  We  sometimes  give  the  animal 
an  anaesthetic  after  he  is  cast ; or,  the  operation  can  be  done  in  a humane 
and  painless  manner  by  injecting  a six  per  cent,  solution  of  cocaine  hypo- 
dermically over  the  important  nerves  leading  to  the  foot.  When  the  side- 
bone  is  removed,  the  operation  should  be  performed  by  a surgeon  and  the 
wound  kept  perfectly  clean  until  it  heals.  A recovery  usually  takes  place 
in  three  or  four  weeks.  There  are  no  cases  of  side-bone  that  are  incurable 
under  this  treatment. 

WIND-GALLS— WIND-PUFFS.— Wind-galls  are  soft,  puffy,  bursal 
enlargements  situated  on  the  back  part  of  the  leg  just  above  the  fetlock  joint; 
however,  the  same  ailment  affects  horses  in  different  parts  of  the  body  in  the 
form  of  enlarged  bursae,  in  connection  with  the  tendons.  In  a majority  of 
cases  wind-galls  are  not  productive  of  much  harm  ; however,  in  some  cases 
they  do  become  hard  and  tender,  producing  lameness,  especially  where  a 
joint  is  affected.  We  often  meet  with  bursal  swellings  in  the  knee  and  hock 
which  are,  of  course,  of  the  same  character  as  a wind-gall  and  on  account 
of  their  location  injure  the  horse. 

CAUSES. — The  early  cause  of  wind-galls  is  generally  over-exertion, 
fast  driving  on  hard  roads  or  pulling  too  heavy  loads  and  a great  many  horses, 
on  account  of  inherited  faulty  conformation,  seem  to  come  honestly  by  them. 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  FETLOCK,  ANKLE  AND  FOOT. 


93 


for  very  slight  exciting  causes  seem  to  be  productive  of  them.  A horse  with 
straight,  upright  pasterns  is  more  likely  to  suffer  from  wind-galls  than  a 
horse  that  has  oblique  pasterns ; but  the  heavy,  coarse  breeds  of  horses  seem 
to  get  them  without  doing  much  hard  work. 

SYMPTOMS. — A soft,  puffy,  painless  swelling,  without  much  heat, 
situated  near  a joint  or  a tendon  may  be  called  a wind-gall.  Chronic  wind- 
galls  are  very  likely  to  become  hard. 

TREATMENT. — In  the  early  stages  of  this  ailment,  pressure  applied 
by  small  pads  with  a bandage  over  them  has  a good  effect.  Alcoholic  stim- 
ulants or  cooling  astringents  applied  to  them  also  have  a good  effect.  Put 
% pound  of  sugar  of  lead  and  three  ounces  of  muriate  ammonia  into  a gal- 
lon of  water  and  apply  four  or  five  times  a day.  Or,  apply  equal  parts  of 
spirits  of  camphor  and  iodine.  Showering  with  cold  water,  during  the  summer 
time,  is  very  beneficial.  When  the  bunches  harden  apply  iodine  ointment. 
I have  sometimes  found  it  necessary  to  use  an  aspirator,  drawing  off  the 
fluid  by  suction.  Sometimes,  injecting  a weak  solution  of  iodine  proved 
successful ; however,  opening  wind-galls  is  v/ork  for  a veterinarian.  Wind- 
galls  often  retu'*n  when  the  horse  is  put  to  work. 

CORNS. — A corn  is  a simple  bruise  of  that  part  of  the  sole  included 
between  the  bars  and  the  wall  of  hoof  at  the  heel,  but  later  there  is  generally 
an  increased  growth  of  horn  and  the  formation  of  a horny  tumor  which 
presses  on  the  quick.  In  other  cases  the  bruise  sets  up  an  active  inflammation 
which  is  soon  followed  by  the  formation  of  matter  or  pus  which,  is  not 
allowed  to  escape,  will  burrow  toward  the  coronet  and  break.  When  this 
condition  occurs  it  is  called  quittor.  Corns  are  most  common  in  flat  feet  and 
on  horses  with  lovv^  heels  and  are  usually  situated  on  the  inside  quarter. 

CAUSES. — Improper  shoeing  is  no  doubt  the  most  common  cause  of 
corns.  They  are  caused  by  allowing  horses  to  wear  their  shoes  too  long, 
keeping  the  heels  too  high,  using  too  narrow  shoes,  fast  driving  on  hard 
roads,  weakening  the  foot  by  too  much  cutting  and  an  uneven  distribution 
of  pressure  \vhich  results  from  leaving  the  inner  heel  too  high.  In  fact,  any 
cause  that  will  produce  contraction  is  likely  to  cause  corns. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  is  usually  lame  and  in  some  cases  extremely 
so,  usually  pointing  the  foot  if  only  one  be  affected.  A horse  may  have  a corn 
and  show  very  little  soreness  or  lameness  when  walking,  but  if  trotted  on 
hard  footing  will  show  it  plainly.  A very  good  test  to  ascertain  whether  or 
not  he  has  a corn  it  to  tap  the  quarter  gently  v.dth  a small  hammer  or  piece 
of  hard  wood  and  if  he  shows  pain  it  is  a good  plan  to  remove  the  shoe;  but, 
before  doing  so,  upon  tapping  the  opposite  quarter  he  should  show  no  pain 
whatever  unless  a harder  blow  is  struck  than  on  tender  quarter.  The  heel 
is  usually  a little  feverish  and  many  times  pressure  applied  to  the  coronet 
will  produce  pain  and  when  w^alking  he  will  show  a tendency  to  trip  and 
stumble.  When  the  shoe  is  removed  the  bruised  quarter  will  be  found  some- 
what inflamed;  or,  you  will  find,  perhaps,  a small  pebble  or  gravel.  How- 
ever, gentle  pressure  on  the  quarter  will  determine  whether  the  corn  is  pro- 
ducing lameness  or  not. 

TREATMENT. — Remove  the  shoe  and  pare  down  carefully,  but  never 
dig  down  deep  with  a dirty  knife.  When  the  corn  is  reached  the  pus  will 
run  if  there  be  any  present.  The  sole  should  not  all  be  cut  out  and  only  a 
small  opening  should  be  made  to  allow  the  matter  to  escape.  Pour  in  some 


94 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


peroxide  of  hydrogen  or  any  good  home  healing  remedy.  Avoid  using  caustics 
or  active  counter-irritants.  Generally  speaking,  a bar  shoe  is  preferable  to  an 
open  one.  Keep  in  mind  the  importance  of  relieving  the  quarter  and  remov- 
ing the  cause.  A three-quarter  shoe  may  be  used  in  some  cases.  In  many 
cases,  especially  chronic  ones,  the  corn  can  be  completely  removed  and  the 
wound  healed  in  two  or  three  weeks ; however,  when  this  is  done  the  opera- 
tion should  be  performed  by  a veterinarian  and  the  foot  given  good  care 
and  kept  clean  after  the  operation. 

QUARTER  CRACK— CRACKS  IN  THE  WALL.— Cracks  in  the  wall 
is  a condition  of  the  foot  due  to  a separation  of  the  wall  of  the  hoof.  It  is 
called  sand  crack  when  sand  or  gravel  is  found  in  the  sore  and  when  the 
split  in  the  hoof  is  near  the  heel  it  is  called  quarter  crack. 

CAUSES. — Many  horses  seem  to  be  predisposed  to  foot  ailments  of  this 
kind.  They  usually  have  thin,  weak  hoofs,  perhaps  flat.  It  is  caused  by  the 
heels  being  kept  too  high,  the  hoofs  being  rasped  too  thin,  injuries  to  the 
coronet,  soaking  the  hoofs  too  much  if  they  are  not  kept  moist  afterward  and 
by  uneven  shoeing. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all  the  foot  should  be  made  level  and  a bar 
shoe  applied  carefully  so  that  there  is  pressure  on  the  sole,  bars,  frog  and 
wall,  except  that  part  of  the  wall  under  and  near  the  crack.  The  edges  of  the 
crack  should  be  thinned  and  the  hoof  cut  through  at  the  coronet.  This 
cut  or  burn  should  be  at  right  angles  to  the  crack,  then  the  wall  will  grow 
down  solid.  A nail  should  be  driven  through  the  edges  of  the  crack  and  riv- 
eted ; or,  a copper  plate  with  small  screws  should  be  applied  to  the  hoof  to 
hold  the  parts  together.  Wet  swabs  or  poultices  help  take  out  the  soreness. 
Many  times,  using  a three-quarter  shoe  is  the  best  way  to  shoe  a horse 
that  goes  lame  from  a quarter  crack. 

SAND  CRACK. — A sand  crack  is  a separation  of  the  wall  of  the  foot 
running  parallel  to  the  fibers  of  the  wall.  It  shows  in  the  fore  part  of  the 
hoof  and  no  doubt  derived  its  name  from  its  being  so  common  in  sandy 
countries. 

CAUSES. — Horses  with  weak,  flat  feet  very  often  have  sand  cracks  and 
it  would  seem  as  though  they  came  honestly  by  them.  Certain  breeds  seem 
predisposed  to  sand  cracks.  Keeping  the  heel  too  high,  lack  of  moisture, 
standing  on  dry  floors,  and  lack  of  regular  exercise  are  the  common  causes 
of  sand  crack. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  crack  usually  appears  quite  suddenly,  causing  some 
lameness  and,  on  close  examination,  a little  blood  will  be  found  at  the 
top  of  the  hoof.  The  crack  usually  commences  at  the  top  of  the  hoof  and 
extends  downward.  When  buying  a horse  it  is  well  to  examine  for  sand 
crack  for  if  the  hair  is  long  it  might  be  overlooked. 

TREATMENT. — Burn  or  cut  through  the  hoof  at  the  coronet  and  draw 
the  edges  of  the  crack  together  with  a nail,  clip,  or  plate  and  screws. 

QUITTOR  . — This  disease  is  indicated  by  a swelling  on  the  heel  which 
is  generally  discharging  pus  through  a sinus  or  what  is  commonly  called 
a “ pipe.”  This  is  a serious  ailment  when  occurring  in  animals  with  strong 
feet. 

CAUSES. — It  occurs  as  a result  of  bruises,  treads,  pricks,  corns,  punc- 
tures, wounds  and  quarter  cracks. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  many  eases  lameness  is  the  first  symptom  noticed. 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  FETLOCK,  ANKLE  AND  FOOT.  95 


On  examination  a hard  swelling  is  discovered  on  the  heel,  which  soon  opens 
and  discharges  pus.  Some  time  later  several  openings  may  be  discharging 
matter  from  this  same  quarter  of  foot. 

TREATMENT. — If  it  is  possible  to  ascertain  the  cause,  remove  it  at 
once.  Foment  the  foot  in  warm  salt  and  water.  If  no  pus  is  coming  from 
the  bunch,  poultice  with  bran,  linseed  meal,  carrots  or  antiphlogistine.  Cut- 
ting away  any  horn  that  may  be  pressing  on  bruised  parts  or  thinning  the 
wall  may  relieve  the  swollen  heel.  If  it  is  the  result  of  a suppurating  corn 
(gravel),  open  lower  part  of  heel  to  obtain  drainage  and  use  peroxide  of  hydro- 
gen; ten  minutes  later  pack  opening  with  equal  parts  of  iodoform  and  boric 
acid  and  then  cover  the  heel  wound  with  oakum  and  keep  the  foot  quiet  and 
perfectly  clean.  If  the  quarter  is  open  at  coronet  the  wall  of  heel  should  be 
lowered  and  weakened  by  thinning  it.  In  some  cases  the  sinus  or  wall  of 
the  abscess,  may  be  scraped  out  and  it  may  be  necessary  to  remove  a portion  of 
the  wall  in  order  to  get  at  the  abscess.  It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  proper 
drainage  is  important,  dropping  a grain  or  two  of  bi-chloride  of  mercury 
(corrosive  sublimate)  to  the  bottom  of  a pipe  will  slough  out  the  sinus. 
It  may  be  necessary  to  rei>eat  this  application  and  as  soon  as  the  parts  appear 
healthy  use  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  such  astringents  as  permanganate  of 
potash,  carbolic  acid,  sulphate  of  zinc,  sugar  of  lead,  or  coal-tar  disinfectant, 
but  be  sure  to  keep  the  foot  clean  and  free  from  external  infection.  If  the 
lateral  cartilages  are  diseased  badly  it  may  be  necessary  to  remove  them 
before  a recovery  will  take  place. 

THRUSH. — Thrush  is  a diseased  condition  of  the  fatty  frog,  or  may  be 
an  irritation  of  the  sensitive  structures  of  the  back  part  of  the  foot.  It  is 
characterized  by  an  offensive  discharge  from  the  cleft  of  the  frog. 

CAUSES. — Thrush  is  often  the  result  of  standing  in  filthy  stables  or 
running  in  filthy  barnyards.  It  may  result  from  inflammation  of  the  coffin 
joint ; standing  too  much  in  cold  water ; stuffing  the  feet  with  cow  dung  or 
any  filthy,  irritating  foot  dressing;  and,  I might  say,  it  is  far  more  prevalent 
in  warm  weather  and  warm  climates. 

TREATMENT. — The  most  important  step  to  take  is  the  removal  of  the 
cause  for  until  this  is  done  you  will  fail  to  effect  a cure  no  matter  what 
remedies  you  may  apply.  Place  the  animal  in  a dry,  clean  stable ; remove  the 
shoes  and  apply  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  twenty  parts  water;  or,  apply 
peroxide  of  hydrogen  twice  a day ; or,  apply  coal-tar  disinfectant,  one  part, 
and  water,  fifteen  parts ; or,  put  one  ounce  sulphate  of  zinc  into  one  quart 
of  water  and  apply ; or,  apply  calomel.  These  remedies  should  be  applied 
daily  no  matter  which  one  you  use. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  THRUSH.— 

1.  Carbolic  Acid. — Clean  the  foot  well  and  pour  one  part  carbolic  acid 
and  twenty  parts  water  around  the  frog  twice  a day  until  cured. 

2.  Lard,  Tar  and  Blue  Vitriol. — Use  equal  parts  of  warm  lard,  pulverized 
blue  vitriol  and  pine  tar.  The  foot  should  be  well  cleaned  and  the  mixture 
applied  once  a day  for  a week  and  followed  with  applications  of  salt  for  an- 
other week.  If  not  better  at  the  end  of  the  second  week  the  mixture  should 
be  applied  again  as  before. 

3.  Turnip  and  Charcoal  Poultice. — Pare  away  the  diseased  parts  of  the 
horn  and  for  a day  or  two  apply  a poultice  of  boiled  turnips  to  which  has  been 
added  a handful  of  powdered  charcoal  and  a few  drops  of  carbolic  acid.  Then 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


9() 

dean  the  parts  and  apply  dry  calomel  and  dress  with  oakum  and  apply  a 
bandaf^e.  This  will  be  found  very  effective  in  the  cure  of  thrush. 

OVER-REACHING — FORGING. — Over-reaching  is  when  a horse  in 
traveling  steps  on  the  back  part  of  the  forefoot  with  the  hind  one.  Forging 
is  when  a horse  which  travels  much  the  same  way  strikes  the  bottom  of  the 
foot  or  shoe,  causing  an  unpleasant  noise. 

CAUSES. — Perhaps  the  most  common  cause  is  peculiar  conformation, 
such  as  high  hind  quarters  with  lower  fore  quarters.  This  gives  the  animal 
a greater  reach,  seemingly,  than  if  the  hind  quarters  were  lower.  Besides, 
conformation  accounts  for  peculiarity  of  action  ; therefore,  line  trotters  move 
the  hind  feet  forward  under  the  body  instead  of  opening  out  wide  and  going- 
dear  and  perhaps  strike  the  forefeet.  It  is  also  the  result  of  wearing  too 
heavy  shoes  on  the  hind  feet,  thereby  lengthening  the  animal’s  stride.  It  is 
also  induced  by  light  shoeing  in  front. 

SYMPTOMS. — Wounds  or  bruises  on  the  back  part  of  the  forefeet 
should  cause  a suspicion  of  over-reaching  and  the  condition  of  his  hind  toes 
and  marks  made  on  the  bottom  of  the  shoe,  also  a noise  when  traveling,  are 
all  indications  of  forging. 

REMEDY. — A majority  of  young  colts  over-reach  and  forge.  This  is  not 
a bad  symptom.  However,  it  very  often  only  occurs  while  establishing  the  ani- 
mal’s gait.  To  remedy  this  ailment  the  action  in  the  front  feet  should  be  in- 
creased, while  that  of  the  hind  feet  should  be  retarded.  Increase  the  weight  of 
the  fore  shoes  and  allow  slight  rolling  motion;  behind  they  should  be 
shod  very  light,  the  toe  of  foot  kept  long  and  a toe  calk  used  with  but  little 
or  no  heel.  This  prevents  or  rather  retards  quick  action.  Where  there  is  a 
tendency  to  over-reach  and  grab  the  front  shoe  it  should  be  made  as  short  as 
possible.  Also  keep  in  mind  the  importance  of  keeping  up  the  front  heels  and 
lowering  the  hind  ones. 

INTERFERING-STRIKING  FETLOCK  JOINTS.— Nearly  every 
colt  when  being  broken  to  drive  interferes  more  or  less  and  a great  many 
horses,  because  of  faulty  conformation,  can  hardly  avoid  interfering.  A ma- 
jority of  those  that  do  strike  the  fetlock,  shin  or  knee  with  the  opposite  foot 
interfere  behind,  which  is  not  as  serious  as  when  they  strike  in  front.  By 
watching  horses  closely  I find  that  one-fourth  of  them  strike  when  traveling 
and  it  is  safe  to  say  that  a larger  percentage  of  trotting  and  pacing  horses 
strike.  Of  course  many  of  them  do  not  strike  hard  enough  to  bruise  or  wound 
the  leg.  There  are  several  reasons  why  so  many  horses  interfere.  Improper 
shoeing  is  one ; shoeing  with  too  heavy  shoes  is  another ; driving  or  working 
horses  until  they  become  tired  and  leg  weary  is  another  cause  and  driving 
horses  on  rough  uneven  footing  causes  most  of  them  to  strike. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  almost  impossible  to  shoe  some  horses  so  they 
will  not  interfere.  These  are  cases  where  the  animal  toes  out  much  in  front 
or  has  very  narrov/  hips.  However,  the  worst  cases  can  be  helped  by  proper 
shoeing.  In  some  cases  it  is  necessary  to  wear  boots  or  pads  to  protect 
the  shin.  Shoe  with  light  shoes  instead  of  heavy  ones;  keep  the  foot  level 
and  add  some  weight  to  inside  of  shoe — but  keep  the  foot  level.  If  one  kind 
of  shoe  fails  to  correct  this  trouble,  have  your  shoer  make  a change  and  as 
a rule  the  horse  shoer  knows  best  how  to  correct  this  trouble.  Therefore, 
I advise  horse  owners  'to  listen  to  the  shoer  rather  than  to  interfere  with 
him. 


HORSE— DISEASES  OF  FETLOCK,  ANKLE  AND  FOOl.  97 


PUMICED  FOOT. — This  disease  is  the  result  of  an  inflammation  of  the 
foot  that  has  become  chronic  for  want  of  proper  care  at  the  proper  time. 
I have  known  neglected  cases  of  founder  to  terminate  in  bad  cases  of  pumiced 
foot.  Whenever  an  effusion  takes  place  in  the  foot  it  should  be  allowed  to 
escape  or  else  it  may  give  rise  to  a disease  of  the  foot  such  as  I have  men- 
tioned. 

SYMPTOMS. — By  looking  at  the  sole  of  the  foot  it  will  be  found  con- 
vex instead  of  concave  as  it  should  be.  The  bone  of  the  foot  drops  and  the 
horse  travels  much  like  a foundered  horse. 

TREATMENT. — I always  apply  a wide-webbed  shoe  with  bar  and  pack 
the  bottom  of  the  foot  so  as  to  support  the  sole  and  by  following  up  such 
cases  it  is  astonishing  how  much  each  one  can  be  helped  even  if  not  made 
entirely  well.  A horse  in  this  condition  should  be  used  on  the  farm  for 
slow  work,  but  seldom  driven  on  the  road.  In  some  cases  treatment  will 
prove  quite  unsatisfactory  and  it  is  better  to  destroy  the  horse. 

BREAK-DOWN— RUPTURE  OF  THE  SUSPENSORY  LIGA- 
MENT.— What  is  understood  by  a break-down  is  when  a rupture  of  the  sus- 
pensory ligament  takes  place.  This  ligament  is  situated  between  the  knee  and 
fetlock  and  runs  between  the  back  tendons  and  shin  bone.  In  race  horses 
the  forelegs  are  more  likely  to  be  affected,  but  in  draft  horses  that  are  used 
for  heavy  pulling  the  hind  legs  generally  suffer. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  both  branches  of  this  ligament  are  torn  loose  the 
lameness  comes  on  suddenly  and  the  animal  suffers  great  pain ; the  fetlock 
descends  and  of  course  the  toe  turns  up  and  the  leg  is  swollen  and  very  much 
inflamed.  In  mild  cases  there  is  scarcely  any  lowering  of  the  fetlock  and  not 
nearly  so  much  inflammation  in  the  leg. 

TREATMENT. — When  rupture  of  the  ligament  has  taken  place  and  the 
horse  is  unable  to  rest  any  weight  on  the  injured  limb,  he  should  be  placed  in 
slings  and  either  hot  or  cold  water  should  be  applied  to  subdue  the  inflamma- 
tion and  very  often  it  gives  relief  to  apply  an  elastic  bandage.  The  aim 
should  be  to  get  the  leg  back  into  its  normal  position  as  quickly  as  possible. 
Therefore,  a high-heeled  shoe  and  bandages  to  support  the  leg  are  helpful 
in  the  treatment  of  break-down.  After  the  inflammation  subsides  use  any 
good  home  liniment  and  later  apply  every  week  some  cerate  of  cantharides 
to  blister  the  parts  mildly.  Continue  this  until  he  travels  sound. 

KNUCKLING—COCKED  ANKLE.— When  the  fetlock  joint  tips  for- 
ward it  is  termed  knuckling  or  cocked  ankle.  The  seat  of  trouble  may  not  be 
in  the  ankle  but  in  some  other  part  of  the  leg. 

CAUSES. — Colts  are  sometimes  born  with  this  weakness,  the  fetlock 
being  thrown  forward  and  the  pastern  being  erect,  making  the  colt  some- 
what predisposed  to  knuckling.  In  older  horses  it  is  generally  the  result  of 
a sprain  of  the  ligaments  of  the  fetlock  or  other  ligaments  or  tendons  of  the 
leg.  Fast  driving  and  heavy  pulling  are  both  causes  of  knuckling. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  fetlock  joint  is  thrown  forward  too  far  and  the  joint 
rocks  back  when  the  animal  moves  but  when  standing  still  is  cocked  forward. 

TREATMENT— Colts,  if  they  are  well  fed,  recover  without  anything 
else  being  done.  In  older  horses  when  it  is  the  result  of  a sprain,  give  rest 
and  shower  with  cold  water  in  summer  or  apply  hot  water  in  winter.  Apply 
any  home  liniment  that  you  have  found  useful  for  sprains  in  man  and  good 
results  will  follow.  Apply  equal  parts  of  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and  raw 


9S 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


linseed  oil  once  a day.  If  you  believe  it  necessary  to  blister  use  cerate  of 
cantharides,  which  every  druggist  can  supply.  There  are  many  liniments  and 
blisters  on  the  market  which  are  equally  good  in  the  treatment  of  knuckling. 
It  is  important  to  keep  the  heel  a little  higher  than  the  toe ; this  your  shoer 
can  do,  but  harm  can  be  done  if  it  is  placed  too  high. 

NAVICULAR  JOINT  LAMENESS— COFFIN  JOINT  LAMENESS.— 
This  is  an  affection  of  the  joint  within  the  foot.  The  synovial  sac,  ligaments, 
tendons  or  bone  may  be  affected. 

CAUSES. — It  is  usually  a disease  of  the  lighter  breeds  of  horses  that 
are  used  for  road  or  fast  work.  It  also  follows  concussion  or  injuries  to  the 
foot  from  bad  shoeing,  and  it  may  also  arise  from  stone  bruises  and  contrac- 
tion of  the  foot.  It  may  also  be  a rheumatic  ailment  affecting  this  particular 
joint  or  it  may  follow  derangement  of  the  digestive  organs  caused  by  over- 
feeding of  grain  or  allowing  a fatigued  horse  to  drink  too  much  cold  water. 
These  are  the  common  causes ; however,  there  are  many  other  causes  which 
have  a tendency  to  produce  a diseased  condition  of  the  navicular  or  coffin 
joint. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  horse  points  the  affected  foot  ten  or  twelve  inches 
in  advance  of  the  other  with  the  heel  slightly  elevated  when  standing  quietly 
in  the  stable  or  in  harness  after  a drive.  This  pointing  may  have  gone  on 
three  or  four  months  before  the  animal  shows  lameness.  The  horse  has  a 
tendency  to  step  short,  stub  the  toe  and  stumble  when  first  driven,  but  the 
lameness  lessens  and  he  may  go  sound  after  traveling  a mile  or  two.  How- 
ever, lameness  soon  returns.  The  toe  of  the  shoe  wears  most;  the  foot 
feels  hot,  especially  the  back  part,  and  it  is  sometimes  swollen  and  bulging 
over  quarters  and  the  foot  soon  commences  to  contract.  Pressing  the  thumb 
over  the  middle  of  the  flexor  tendons  on  either  the  inner  or  outer  side  as  low 
down  as  it  can  be  reached  produces  pain.  Following  chronic  lameness,  there 
is  more  or  less  atrophy  of  the  limb,  which  is  sometimes  mistaken  for  sweeny. 
Tapping  the  bottom  of  the  foot  with  a hammer  near  the  heel  usually  pro- 
duces pain. 

TREATMENT. — In  a majority  of  chronic  cases  the  treatment  is  unsatis- 
factory. However,  in  recent  cases  they  may  get  well.  First  of  all,  subdue 
the  inflammation  with  either  cold  or  warm  water  or  poultices  and  then  apply 
a light  blister.  Some  relief  follows  shortening  the  foot  and  slightly  raising 
the  heel.  If  occurring  in  the  summer  season  a run  on  low  land  that  is  moist 
will  always  help  a case  of  this  kind.  Frog  setons  are  recommended  by  some 
veterinarians,  but  these  should  be  inserted  and  the  foot  looked  after  by  a 
veterinarian  or  bad  results  may  follow.  When  all  other  remedies  have  failed 
to  subdue  the  lameness  and  effect  a cure,  cutting  the  nerves  and  removing 
not  less  than  one  inch  either  above  or  below  the  fetlock  always  gives  relief. 
However,  certain  cases  should  not  be  operated  on.  If  the  bone  is  diseased 
and  if  the  feet  are  weak  and  flat  the  results  are  not  satisfactory.  All  cases 
of  navicular  disease  are  helped  by  standing  the  horse  in  wet  clay  and  by 
applying  wet  swabs  while  they  are  in  the  stable  and,  as  a rule,  repeated 
blisters  applied  to  the  coronet  do  good,  but  bear  in  mind  that  a majority  ol 
cases  never  get  well.  I have  known  many  cases  of  coffin  joint  lameness  in 
the  early  stages  to  be  relieved  by  turning  the  horse  into  low  wet  pastures  and 
using  him  on  soft  footing  instead  of  on  hard  roads. 

FOUNDER — LAMENITIS. — Lamenitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  whole 


IRREGULAR  STRANGLES. 


EFEECTS  OF  SUNSTROKE. 


CONGESTION  OF  LUNGS. 

Fore  limbs  apart  and  well  under  body. 
Nostrils  are  flapping  and  the  eye  has  a 
deadly  stare. 


ACUTE  LAMINTTTS  (Foundered). 
(Feet  close  together.) 


AZOTURIA. 

Ffind  quarters  paralyzed.  Can  get  up  IMPACTION  Oh  LARGE  BOWEL, 
with  fore  limbs  but  not  with  hind  limbs. 


horse— DISEASES  OF  FETLOCK,  ANKLE  AND  FOOT. 


99 


of  the  sensitive  structure  of  the  foot  and  it  occurs  in  the  acute,  sub-acute 
and  chronic  forms. 

CAUSES. — It  is  safe  to  say  that  some  horses  are  predisposed  to  lamen- 
itis,  for  I have  known  many  horses  with  large  bodies,  light  legs  and  weak 
flat  feet  to  suffer  from  founder  without  any  person  being  able  to  assign  any 
exciting  cause  for  their  trouble.  The  horse  that  suffers  most  pain  from  lamen- 
itis  is  the  one  with  deep  round  feet.  Hard  and  fast  work  often  causes  founder. 
High  steppers  are  more  likely  to  have  lamenitis  than  if  they  traveled  low. 
Improper  shoeing  and  feeding  too  much  grain  are  causes  and  it  sometimes 
follows  parturition.  Drinking  too  much  cold  water  when  in  a heated  condi- 
tion is  also  a cause,  and  there  are  many  other  causes  which  produce  founder 
in  horses. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  the  acute  form  of  founder  (lamenitis)  there  is  always 
great  pain.  The  animal  usually  has  a chill  before  the  temperature  goes  up, 
the  pulse  is  generally  full  and  somewhat  quickened  and  the  bowels  are 
generally  costive  and  the  urine  highly  colored.  If  all  feet  are  affected  the 
animal  keeps  his  feet  well  under  him,  but  if  the  two  forefeet  only  are  affected 
he  extends  them  somewhat  in  front  of  the  body.  When  required  to  move 
he  goes  on  his  heels. 

TREATMENT. — In  the  first  state  there  is  very  little  stiffness  but  very 
soon  the  temperature  of  the  body  goes  up  and  a general  stiffness  sets  in  which 
is  quite  noticeable.  The  forefeet  should  be  placed  in  either  hot  or  cold  water 
and  I have  obtained  the  best  results  from  hot  water  in  winter  and  cold  in 
summer.  However,  cold  water  is  most  easily  applied  and  generally  produces 
good  results.  Standing  the  animal  in  wet  clay  is  fully  as  good  as  either  hot 
or  cold  water.  Standing  on  soft  footing  gives  relief.  Give  aconite  in  twenty- 
drop  doses  four  times  a day  if  he  is  feverish ; also  give  a tablespoonful  of 
powdered  saltpeter  in  drinking  water  twice  a day.  Keep  the  bowels  open 
by  giving  one  pound  of  epsom.  salts  daily  until  they  open ; or,  give  one  pint 
raw  linseed  oil  daily  until  the  bowels  loosen ; or,  a dose  of  Barbadoes  aloes 
and  calomel  will  open  them.  Walk  him  on  soft  ground. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FOUNDER.— 

1.  Linseed  Oil  and  Foot  Bath. — Stand  the  front  feet  in  a tub  of  hot 
water.  Give  a pint  of  linseed  oil  and  repeat  the  dose  in  10  hours  if  it  has  not 
caused  a movement  of  the  bowels.  Give  the  horse  walking  exercise. 

2.  Saltpeter. — Take  the  animal  as  soon  as  known  to  have  been  found- 
ered and  give  a rounding  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  saltpeter.  Repeat  this 
dose  in  ten  hours  and  follow  with  one-half  pound  of  salts. 

3.  Oil  of  Sassafras. — When  you  first  discover  that  the  animal  has  been 
foundered  give  a tablespoonful  of  oil  of  sassafras ; in  six  hours  repeat  this 
dose  and  follow  with  half  a pound  of  salts.  In  all  cases  of  founder  short 
walks  are  a help  rather  than  a hindrance  to  a complete  recovery.  We  are 
indebted  to  a Granger  living  in  Pullman,  Washington,  for  this  recipe. 

CHRONIC  FpUNDER— CHRONIC  LAMENITIS— CONVEX  SOLES 
— Chronic  lamenitis  and  convex  soles  are  generally  the  result  of  neglected  or 
bad  cases  of  founder  that  have  made  a poor  recovery.  Whenever  a sub-acute 
inflammation  of  the  feet  occurs  and  lasts  for  any  great  D^^gth  of  time  the 
hoofs  change  in  shape  and  the  wall  becomes  covered  with  rings  and  if  any 
great  effusion  takes  place  in  the  foot  the  sole  may  drop,  giving  it  a convex 
shape. 


100 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


TREATMENT. — A complete  recovery  in  chronic  cases  of  this  kind 
should  not  always  be  looked  for  or  you  will  be  disappointed.  When  rings 
have  formed  on  the  hoof  and  the  sole  has  dropped  low  the  case  can  be  helped 
by  putting  on  a wide  webbed  shoe,  packing  the  sole  with  tar  and  oakum 
and  applying  light  blisters  to  the  coronet  once  a week.  You  can  use  cerate 
of  cantharides  or  any  good  home  blister  that  is  not  too  severe.  A horse  that 
has  chronic  founder  should  be  driven  on  soft  footing,  allowed  to  go  slow  and 
his  forefeet  given  good  care.  He  should  be  well  shod  and  his  shoes  changed 
every  4 to  6 weeks. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  HOOF-BOUND  AND  CON- 
TRACTED HEELS.— 

1.  Hoof  Ointment. — Apply  one  part  coal  tar  disinfectant  and  six  parts 
vaseline  once  a day.  This  is  for  cracks  in  the  hoof  and  is  also  good  to  aid 
in  growing  a new  hoof. 

2.  Tar,  Tallow  and  Beeswax. — Melt  together  one  pound  of  archangel 
tar,  one-half  pound  of  tallow  and  four  ounces  of  beeswax.  Apply  twice  a day. 

3.  Hoof-Bound. — Take  4 ounces  of  pine  tar,  3 ounces  of  olive  oil,  and  2 
ounces  each  of  burgundy  pitch,  Venice  turpentine,  rosin  and  beeswax ; dissolve 
these  and  add  2 ounces  of  spirits  of  turpentine.  Rub  well  into  the  hoof  once 
a day  for  a week  or  ten  days. 

4.  Hoof-Bound  and  Contracted  Heels. — Besides  applying  a good  hoof 
ointment  it  is  well  to  apply  poultices  of  boiled  turnips  or  linseed  meal.  This 
is  more  in  the  way  of  preventive  treatment. 


VARIOUS  DISEASES. 

(Including  Inflammations,  Influenza,  Pink-Eye,  Epizootic,  Strangles  or 
Distemper,  Glanders,  Bad  Blood,  Etc.) 


INFLAMMATION. — This  term  is  usually  applied  where  there  is  in- 
creased heat  with  some  redness,  pain  and  swelling.  The  heat  is  a result  of 
an  increased  circulation  of  blood  to  the  part  and  no  doubt  there  is  a somewhat 
changed  condition  of  the  blood.  The  redness,  however,  depends  upon  the 
quality  of  blood  and  sometimes  the  parts  may  be  dark  if  the  blood  is  coming 
from  an  open  vein  and  a much  brighter  red  if  the  blood  is  leaking  from  an 
open  artery.  The  swelling  of  a part  does  not  always  produce  much  pain,  un- 
less the  pressure  applies  to  a part  of  the  body  liberally  supplied  with  nerves. 
Pain  is  very  often  a well-marked  symptom  of  inflammation  as,  for  instance, 
in  founder."  The  results  of  inflammation  are  numerous.  Tlie  inflamed  parts 
can  often  be  restored  to  their  normal  condition  by  the  use  of  hot  water,  or 
sometimes  cold  applications.  I have  found  cold  applications  very  satisfactory 
in  hot  weather,  while  hot  applications  act  best  during  the  winter  months. 
When  an  inflammation  of  a part  goes  on  for  some  time  there  is  an  exudation 
which  may  solidify,  then  hot  applications  or  an  absorbent  should  be  applied 
to  break  up  the  mass.  We  also  find  adhesive  inflammations  following  too 
much  exercise,  resulting  in  a permanent  thickening  of  the  inflamed  parts. 
We  also  sometimes  find  inflammation  going  on  until  suppuration  takes  place. 
Finally  the  abscess  bursts  and  relief  comes.  As  a rule  heat  hastens  this  forma- 
tion of  pus ; besides,  stimulating  liniments  and  light  blisters  or  poultices  have 
the  same  effect.  We  also  find  inflammation  terminating  in  gangrene  (morti- 
fication). When  this  condition  exists  in  a vital  organ  it  is  often  fatal.  How- 
ever, it  may  occur  in  the  lungs  or  bowels  and  a recovery  take  place.  Of 
course  when  recovery  takes  place  this  gangrenous  part  must  slough  off.  It 
is  well  to  keep  in  mind  in  treating  an  inflamed  part  that  the  cause  should  be 
ascertained  and  removed  if  possible.  As  a rule  the  quieter  an  inflamed  part 
is  kept  the  quicker  a recovery  will  take  place.  It  is  often  well  to  give  medi- 
cine internally  as  well  as  to  apply  it  in  the  treatment  of  inflammatory  troubles. 
At  one  time  “ blood  letting  ” was  practiced  to  reduce  inflammation ; however, 
it  is  seldom  done  now  by  the  best  veterinarians.  There  are  cases  where  it 
proves  beneficial,  but  I find  it  is  often  done  for  a fee  by  those  who  do  the 
work,  not  knowing  or  believing  that  it  will  do  the  horse  any  good.  Hot  or 
cold  water  is  the  best  and  least  expensive  local  application  to  reduce  in- 
flammation. Mild  stimulating  liniments  such  as  are  kept  in  the  home  are 
also  very  useful  in  reducing  inflammation.  Aconite,  acetanilide  or  opium  will 
reduce  fever  and  nearly  all  the  saline  remedies,  such  as  nitrate,  chlorate  and 
carbonate  of  potassium  have  a cooling  effect.  It  is  also  a good  plan  to  move 
the  bowels  and  feed  very  little  grain.  Also,  feed  some  vegetables  or  grass  and 
allow  the  animal  to  drink  all  the  cold  water  he  craves,  but  not  too  much  of 
it  at  a time. 

CHILLS. — Chills  are  usually  the  result  of  drinking  too  much  spring 

101 


102 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 

water  or  ice  cold  water  and  allowing  the  animal  to  remain  quiet  afterwards ; or, 
a chill  may  be  one  of  the  first  symptoms  noticed  in  the  commencement  of  a 
variety  of  internal  disorders,  the  result  of  infection  and  the  commencement  of 
many  fevers. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite,  shivering,  quick  breathing  and 
quick  pulse  soon  followed  by  a rise  of  temperature.  Of  course  this  is  not  a 
disease  but  only  a symptom  preceding  other  ailments. 

TREATMENT. — Clothe  the  animal  well,  hand  rub  the  legs  and  bandage 
over  with  cotton.  Give  any  of  the  alcoholic  liquors  and  not  less  than  one-half 
pint  in  twice  the  quantity  of  cold  water  and  repeat  in  two  hours.  Or,  give 
one  ounce  sweet  spirits  nitre,  one  dram  tincture  nux  vomica,  four  ounces 
whiskey  and  a tablespoonful  or  two  of  ginger  in  one  quart  of  water  as  a 
drench,  every  three  hours  until  the  surface  of  the  body  becomes  warm.  After 
the  chill  is  over  it  is  best  to  give  tincture  of  aconite  in  15-drop  doses  every 
two  hours  to  reduce  the  fever.  Avoid  subjecting  the  animal  to  exposure. 

INFLUENZA— PINK-EYE— EPIZOOTIC— LA  GRIPPE.— This  is  a 
specific,  infectious,  and  contagious  fever  in  horses  and  mules  and  after  having 
one  attack  the  animal  is  usually  immune  for  two  years  or  more.  This  disease 
is  not  by  any  means  a fatal  one  if  the  sick  animal  receives  fairly  good  care 
and  is  not  exhausted  by  work  or  exposed  to  cold  storms  when  sick. 

CAUSES. — Nearly  all  cases  appear  to  come  from  direct  infection,  the 
germs  being  carried  through  the  air  a considerable  distance.  An  animal  asso- 
ciating with  another  that  has  it  and  especially  if  kept  in  a small  or  badly  ven- 
tilated stable  is  pretty  likely  to  contract  the  disease.  The  disease  sometimes 
prevails  as  an  epidemic;  at  other  seasons  it  is  endemic.  For  some  reason 
the  disease  appeared  in  1872  and  1878  as  an  epizootic  and  swept  over  the 
United  States  and  Canada.  Since  then  it  has  not  been  nearly  so  prevalent. 

SYMPTOMS. — One  of  the  first  symptoms  noticed  is  a refusal  of  the 
animal  to  eat  grain.  This  is  on  account  of  a high  fever  and  it  is  not  unusual 
to  have  the  temperature  reach  from  six  to  eight  degrees  above  normal.  The 
animal  is  dull,  stands  with  head  low,  is  very  dumpish  and  acts  as  though 
suffering  pain.  He  has  chilly  spells,  the  coat  becomes  dry  and  staring,  the 
ears  hang  and  the  animal  is  indifferent  about  moving.  The  eyes  are  some- 
times swollen  and  almost  entirely  closed,  in  some  cases  with  tears  dropping 
over  the  cheeks.  The  pulse  ranges  from  sixty  to  one  hundred  beats  per 
minute  and  the  respirations  are  also  quickened,  the  animal  breathing  from 
twenty  to  thirty  times  a minute.  The  animal  always  shows  great  muscular 
weakness  and  if  required  to  move  can  scarcely  walk.  There  seems  to  be  a 
total  loss  of  appetite  for  grain  or  stimulating  food,  but  a disposition  to  eat 
hay  and  sometimes  vegetables  and  generally  there  is  a great  thirst.  Follow- 
ing high  fever  there  is  usually  some  stocking  about  the  fetlocks,  in  sheath,  and 
under  belly  and  sometimes  to  an  enormous  extent.  For  the  first  three  or 
four  days  the  bowels  are  inclined  to  be  costive.  This  is  doubtless  on  account 
of  the  feverish  condition  of  the  body.  Influenza,  on  account  of  its  being 
attended  with  such  high  fever,  may  result  in  death  from  either  lung  or  heart 
complications  or  brain  congestion.  As  influenza  is  a specific  epizootic  fever 
of  a low  type,  sometimes  associated  with  inflammation  of  the  respiratory 
organs  and  always  causing  an  inflammation  of  the  mucous  membrane  of  these 
organs,  it  is  absolutely  necessary  to  give  animals  suffering  with  it  good  care 
and  proper  nursing.  This  ailment  affects  animals  very  much  like  La  Grippe 


horse— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


103 


affects  man ; therefore,  the  same  line  of  treatment  that  is  followed  in  human 
practice  always  proves  beneficial  to  animals. 

TREATMENT. — As  costiveness  always  prevails  in  the  early  stages  of 
this  sickness  it  should  be  overcome  by  injections  of  warm  water  or  by  giving 
one-quarter  or  one-third  of  a full  dose  of  raw  linseed  oil  to  move  the  bowels 
gently,  but  active  cathartics  must  be  avoided  for  if  given  they  generally 
produce  great  harm.  Experience  tells  me  that  animals  which  are  forced  to 
breathe  bad  air  during  the  night  and  greater  part  of  the  day  are  more  likely 
to  take  this  disease.  It  would  seem  as  though  fresh  air  and  comfortable 
clothing  were  an  important  and  inexpensive  remedy.  Nobody  will  deny 
that  influenza  is  a contagious  disease;  therefore,  it  is  important  to  separate 
the  sick  from  the  well  ones  as  soon  as  the  first  symptoms  of  the  disease 
show,  for  by  doing  so  its  spreading  may  be  prevented.  Medical  remedies 
given  should  support  the  system  and  assist  nature  to  throw  off  the  disease. 
Give  two  or  three  drams  of  chlorate  of  potash  in  drinking  water  three  or 
four  times  a day;  or,  give  a teaspoonful  of  powdered  saltpeter  at  a dose  in 
drinking  water  three  or  four  times  a day.  Give  the  animal  plenty  of  cold  water 
and  remember  that  chlorate  of  potash  is  one  of  the  best  remedies  for  influenza. 
In  some  cases  baking  soda  given  in  water  three  times  a day,  a tablespoonful 
at  a dose,  has  a good  effect.  When  a stimulant  is  required  give  liq.  acetate 
ammonia,  two  or  three  ounces  at  a dose,  every  three  or  four  hours ; or,  give 
alcohol,  whiskey  or  wine.  In  some  cases  give  whiskey,  eggs,  and  milk  as  a 
nutritious  stimulant.  If  the  throat  is  sore  apply  antiphlogistine  or  apply 
equal  parts  of  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and  sweet  oil  lightly  once  a day.  If 
the  lungs  are  affected  apply  light  applications  of  mustard  and  water  or  hot 
packs.  Benefit  may  follow  steaming  the  throat.  In  the  convalescent  stage 
give  tonics,  such  as  sulphate  of  iron,  quinine,  gentian,  cinchona,  quassia  or 
cod  liver  oil  and  don’t  forget  to  groom  the  animal  twice  a day.  In  conclusion 
let  me  say  that  I have  always  found  the  treatment  of  influenza  very  satisfac- 
tory if  taken  in  time,  but  if  old  horses  are  affected  remember  that  their  re- 
covery will  be  much  slower  and  not  as  satisfactory  as  in  young  animals. 

STRANGLES  OR  DISTEMPER. — Strangles  is  an  acute  infectious  and 
contagious  febrile  disease  peculiar  to  the  horse,  mule  and  ass  and  is  character- 
ized usually  by  an  abscess  forming  in  some  part  of  the  body,  but  generally 
in  the  throat.  This  disease  is  most  common  in  young  horses.  However,  old 
horses  sometimes  have  distemper.  It  is  seldom  that  a horse  has  more  than 
one  attack.  This  ailment  requires  six  or  eight  days  to  develop.  Strange  to 
say,  when  young  horses  are  moved  from  one  locality  to  another  they  are 
almost  sure  to  become  infected. 

CAUSES.— Distemper  is  due  to  an  organism,  a streptococcus,  making  this 
a contagious  disease.  Very  few  public  stables  are  free  from  distemper  infec- 
tion. However,  this  is  not  by  any  means  a fatal  illness. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  first  appears  dull  and  stupid,  the  eyes  soon 
begin  to  water,  the  temperature  begins  to  rise,  the  coat  begins  to  get  rough 
and  there  is  generally  a loss  of  appetite  and  some  discharge  from  the  nostrils. 
The  throat  usually  swells  and  an  abscess  begins  to  form  under  the  lower  jaw, 
unless  it  is  a case  of  irregular  strangles ; then  an  abscess  may  form  in  any 
other  part  of  the  body,  making  the  case  much  more  serious  and  difficult  to 
treat  successfully. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  of  strangles,  as  it  generally  occurs,  is 
not  difficult.  Place  the  animal  in  a comfortable,  clean,  well-ventilated  stable 


104 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


in  winter  time,  or  turn  him  out  to  pasture  in  the  summer.  Fresh  air  and  good 
care  have  much  to  do  with  bringing  about  a recovery.  Poultice  the  throat  or 
apply  equal  parts  of  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and  sweet  oil  to  the  swollen 
glands  daily.  Hot  fomentations  induce  suppuration;  so  do  all  stimulating 
liniments.  When  the  abscess  softens  it  should  be  opened  with  a dull  knife 
and  near  the  lower  part  to  allow  proper  drainage.  Inject  a little  peroxide  of 
hydrogen  twice  a day;  ten  minutes  later  inject  one  part  of  carbolic  acid  and 
thirty  parts  water;  or  one  part  coal  tar  disinfectant  and  twenty  parts  water; 
or  any  other  good  home  healing  remedy  and  the  abscess  will  soon  heal.  If 
the  animal  has  much  fever  give  twenty  drops  of  tincture  of  aconite  five  times 
a day.  Feed  a cooling  laxative  diet  instead  of  much  grain. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES. — For  Strangles  or  Distemper. — 

1.  Steaming. — Fill  a bucket  with  hay  and  bran  and  mix  in  some  tar; 
over  this  pour  hot  water  and  steam  the  horses  head  with  the  vapor  which 
arises.  Belladonna  leaves  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  tar  if  desired.  This 
relieves  the  inflammation  of  the  mucous  membranes  and  eases  the  cough. 

2.  Gentian,  Resin,  Ginger  and  Baking  Soda. — To  half  a pound  of  ground 
gentian  add  a pound  each  of  resin,  ginger  and  baking  soda.  Each  should  be 
powdered  and  the  whole  well  mixed.  The  dose  is  a tablespoonful  three  times 
a day  in  feed,  or  given  with  a spoon. 

3.  Salts,  Soda  or  Nitre. — Do  not  expose  the  horse  to  cold  rainstorms  and 
if  there  is  much  fever  give  one-half  teacupful  of  Glauber’s  salts  twice  a day. 
Also  give  a tablespoonful  of  baking  soda  and  a teaspoonful  of  nitre  twice  a 
day. 

4.  Turpentine,  Camphor,  Olive  Oil  and  Ammonia. — To  4 ounces  of  olive 
oil  add  one  ounce  each  of  spirits  of  turpentine  and  spirits  of  camphor  and  one 
and  a half  ounces  of  aqua  ammonia.  Rub  the  throat  with  this  liniment  once 
a day.  If  the  throat  is  swollen  badly  the  application  of  a hot  poultice  of  oil 
meal  will  give  relief.  It  is  also  well  to  keep  the  bowels  open  with  either  raw 
linseed  oil  or  salts. 

5.  Distemper  in  Colts. — Give  from  4 to  6 ounces  of  epsom  salts.  Give 
warm  bran  mashes  or  linseed  or  oatmeal  gruel.  The  colt  should  be  kept 
warm  and  if  the  legs  seem  cold  they  should  be  rubbed  with  cloths  dipped 
in  hot  mustard  water. 

6.  Tobacco  Tea. — To  a quart  of  water  add  an  ounce  of  tobacco  and  boil 
to  make  a tea.  Bathe  the  throat  with  this  tea  as  hot  as  it  can  be  borne. 

7.  Saltpeter,  Etc. — Mix  equal  parts  of  saltpeter  and  chlorate  of  potash 
and  give  a teaspoonful  on  the  tongue  two  or  three  times  a day,  or  dissolve 
in  water  and  let  him  drink  it.  At  the  beginning  the  hair  should  be  clipped 
from  the  throat  and  twice  a day  a mixture  of  white  wine  vinegar  and  Spanish 
flies  should  be  applied.  Use  one-fourth  ounce  of  powdered  Spanish  flies  to 
a quart  of  the  vinegar.  Keep  this  mixture  in  a warm  place. 

8.  Mustard  and  Pepper. — Mix  equal  parts  of  mustard  and  cayenne  pepper 
with  enough  water  to  make  a thin  paste  and  apply  to  the  throat  and  under 
part  of  neck  and  chest.  When  the  abscess  softens  it  should  be  opened. 

SHIPPING  FEVER. — The  term  “ shipping  fever”  is  a common  expres- 
sion of  horse  dealers  and  means  either  influenza,  strangles,  catarrhal  fever  or 
sore  throat.  For  further  information  the  reader  is  referred  to  these  subjects. 

LYMPHANGITIS-WATER  FARCY— WEED— BIG  LEG— MON- 
DAY MORNING  DISEASE. — These  ailments  a^f'  all  the  same  disease,  but 
are  known  by  different  names.  It  consists  in  an  inflammaiion  of  the  lym- 


ELEPHANTIASIS. 

(Also  a collar  gall.) 

Elephantiasis  is  the  result  of  neglected  lynij)hangitis  (water  farcy  or  weed).  The 
leg  of  this  six-year-old  horse  measured  thirty  inches  in  circumference.  Also  note  collar 
tj^all  on  shoulder. 

( Pliotographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hospital  especially  for  this  book.) 


NASAL  GLF.ET  AND  MANNliR  OF  POULTICING  LUNGS  IN  LUNG 

TROUBLES. 

As  a horse  with  lung  trouble  always  stands  up  the  poultice  is  easily  kept  in  place. 
(Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hospital  especially  for  this  book.) 


HORSE— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


105 


phatic  glands  and  vessels,  usually  affecting  the  extremities  of  the  horse  and 
generally  one  leg  only,  which  becomes  enlarged.  The  heaviest  breeds  of 
horses  are  predisposed  to  lymphangitis  much  more  than  the  lighter  breeds 
and  it  generally  affects  good  feeders. 

CAUSES. — As  I have  stated,  the  heavy,  fleshy  horse  is  the  most  likely  to 
become  affected.  However,  the  disease  may  occur  in  the  light  thoroughbred 
horse.  A common  cause  is  resting  a hard  working  animal  for  a few  da}^s 
and  feeding  him  as  much  or  more  grain  than  he  would  have  been  given  had 
he  been  working.  When  a horse  rest§,  especially  if  he  is  a draft  horse,  his 
grain  supply  should  be  reduced  one-half  or  more,  his  bowels  should  be  kept 
open  and  his  stable  well  ventilated.  Another  cause  is  an  injury,  either  mak- 
ing a wound  or  bruising  the  lymphatic  glands.  It  also  follows  debilitating 
diseases  but  it  usually  follows  high  feeding  and  no  exercise. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  disease  sets  in  with  rigors  which  are  sometimes 
severe,  the  animal  trembling  violently.  The  mouth  is  hot,  breathing  is  quick, 
temperature  goes  up,  the  horse  soon  becomes  lame  and  in  some  cases  the 
animal  lies  down  and  is  unable  to  get  up  without  assistance.  The  symptoms 
of  lymphangitis  are  all  very  plain  and  should  be  readily  recognized  by  any 
one  who  understands  horses. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  of  lymphangitis  should  be  energetic  but 
careful  and,  although  this  treatment  is  not  popular  nowadays,  I have  obtained 
good  results  from  blood-letting  and  giving  a full  dose  of  cathartic  medicine, 
such  as  aloes,  from  five  to  eight  drams,  with  thirty  grains  of  calomel  in  two 
drams  of  ginger  and  made  into  a bolus  and  given  at  one  dose.  Or,  give  one 
quart  of  raw  linseed  oil.  Give  one-half  ounce  doses  of  powdered  saltpeter 
night  and  morning  or  give  one-half  ounce  of  citrate  of  potash  twice  daily.  Fo- 
ment leg  with  hot  water,  do  not  feed  grain,  gently  hand  rub  the  leg  and  soon 
give  walking  exercise.  Never  apply  hot,  irritating  liniments  or  blisters;  use 
hot  water. 

PEOPLE’S' HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  WATER  FARCY.— 

1.  For  Farcy  Caused  by  Indigestion  and  Run  Down  Condition. — Mix  3 
ounces  each  of  saltpeter,  sulphur,  anise  seed  and  cream  of  tartar.  Divide  into 
12  powders  and  give  in  soft  feed  for  12  consecutive  meals. 

2.  Oxide  of  Zinc. — Apply  zinc  ointment  which  is  made  by  adding  a dram 
of  oxide  of  zinc  to  an  ounce  of  vaseline. 

3.  Sugar  of  Lead. — Bathe  the  parts  freely  with  a solution  of  one  ounce  of 
sugar  of  lead  to  a quart  of  water.  Keep  the  bowels  open. 

GOITRE— BRONCHOCELE— ENLARGEMENT  OF  THE  THY- 
ROID GLAND. — This  is  an  enlargement  of  the  thyroid  gland  situated  on  each 
side  of  the  neck  about  6 or  7 inches  from  the  angle  of  the  lower  jaw.  Al- 
though this  is  one  of  the  oldest  diseases  known  it  is  by  no  means  well  under- 
stood. It  is  epidemic  in  all  mountainous  districts  the  world  over  and  is  very 
prevalent  in  a belt  of  country  extending  from  Quebec,  Canada,  to  Duluth, 
Minnesota.  It  is  also  very  prevalent  in  Michigan  and  certain  other  parts  of 
the  United  States. 

TREAT]\IENT. — Iodine  seems  to  be  a specific  for  this  ailment  and  may 
be  applied  externally  or  given  inwardh^  I have  obtained  good  results  by 
injecting  some  iodine  into  the  gland  or  by  applying  iodine  ointment  or  tinc- 
ture of  iodine  to  the  gland  daily  or  by  giving  dram  doses  of  iodide  of  potas- 
sium or  even  larger  doses  twice  a day  until  the  gland  reduces.  In  obstinate 
cases  increase  the  dose  or  apply  red  iodide  of  mercury,  one  part;  iodine,  one 


106 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


part  and  lard,  eight  parts.  There  are  also  other  remedies  which  have  given 
me  fairly  good  results. 

WEAKNESS  IN  LEGS  OF  FOALS. — This  is  a very  common  ailment 
of  foals  and  is  no  doubt  the  result  of  their  mothers  having  had  improper  care 
or  having  been  over  worked  and  not  fed  sufficient  nutritious  food  or  having 
stood  still  without  exercise  in  a foul,  badly  ventilated  stable.  Or,  she  may 
have  been  supplied  with  altogether  too  much  nutritious  fat-producing  food 
without  enough  exercise.  , I find  mares  that  are  fed  on  an  unbalanced  ration  and 
that  are  kept  in  badly  ventilated  barns  are  inclined  to  have  weak  colts.  Be- 
sides, mares  that  are  not  exercised  enough  up  to  foaling  time  grow  weak 
themselves  and  are  quite  likely  to  have  weak  foals.  Another  very  common 
cause  of  weakness  in  foals  is  want  of  proper  nourishment  after  they  are  born ; 
also,  neglecting  the  treatment  of  navels  and  allowing  them  to  become  in- 
fected, thus  causing  fever  and  considerable  weakness.  This,  of  course,  shows 
in  the  body,  but  perhaps  not  so  much  so  to  the  casual  observer  as  the  weak- 
ness in  the  legs,  which  everybody  can  see  plainly. 

TREATMENT. — Colts  should  be  kept  warm  when  they  are  born,  dried 
promptly,  either  by  care  from  the  mother  or  by  clothing  or  rubbing  them 
with  soft  towels  and  you  should  never  let  a colt  or  any  young  animal  chill. 
The  navel  of  every  colt  she  Id  be  treated  for  safety.  Apply  any  good  healing 
remedy  such  as  one  part  ca  olic  acid  and  fifty  parts  water,  one  part  bi-chlor- 
ide mercury  and  1,000  par^s  water,  or  dust  on  some  boric  acid  powder  or 
apply  peroxide  of  hydrogen,  then  apply  iodoform  or  some  coal-tar  disinfectant, 
one  part  to  twenty  of  water,  and  continue  applying  remedies  until  the  navel 
dries  and  heals  perfectly.  The  udder  of  a mare  should  be  washed  clean  and 
if  soap  and  water  are  used  all  the  soap  should  be  washed  off  with  warm  water 
before  the  colt  is  allowed  to  suck.  If  her  first  milk  does  not  prove  laxative 
use  a little  glycerine,  sweet  oil  or  soap  to  lubricate  the  inside  of  the  rectum. 
Proper  food  supply  and  good  care  are  what  they  need — not  liniments. 

TUMORS. — Tumors  are  unnatural  enlargements  situated  in  different 
parts  of  the  body  and  they  very  often  differ  in  their  nature  and  structure. 
The  tendency  of  some  are  to  continue  growing  while  others  reach  a certain 
point  of  development,  then  cease  to  grow.  The  removal  of  tumors  should  be 
done  in  one  of  two  ways — either  by  a surgical  operation,  or  by  applying  iodine 
or  giving  different  preparations  of  iodine  internall}^  thus  causing  their  ab- 
sorption. Apply  either  tincture  of  iodine  or  iodine  ointment.  Give  iodide  of 
potassium  or  syrup  of  iodide  of  iron  daily,  until  the  bunch  is  reduced. 

RICKETS. — Rickets  occur  in  all  lower  animals  but  perhaps  the  puppy 
is  the  most  often  affected.  This  disease  is  generally  brought  on  by  feeditig 
an  unbalanced  ration. 

CAUSES. — The  colts  from  sires  that  have  been  over  taxed  seem  to  be 
more  susceptible  to  rickets  than  any  others.  Weaning  young  animals  too 
soon,  feeding  food  which  is  unlike  milk  in  nutritive  properties  and  forcing 
quite  young  animals  to  live  on  food  such  as  old  ones  eat,  are  common  causes 
of  rickets.  The  young  animals  cannot  digest  food  that  older  ones  do ; conse- 
quently, thev  are  weak  and  the  bones  may  bend. 

SYMPTOMS— The  bones  bend  on  account  of  their  containing  too  much 
animal  and  not  enough  earthy  matter.  There  is  generally  considerable  weak- 
ness. This  accounts  for  much  of  the  unsoundness  of  young  stock. 

TREATMENT. — In  the  treatment  of  rickets  the  cause  should  be  found 
and  removed  if  possible.  If  the  animal  is  still  sucking,  then  its  mother  is  at 


HORSE— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


107 


fault  and  by  changing  her  feed  the  colt  will  soon  get  better.  Feed  the  mother 
a balanced  ration,  keep  her  in  good  health  and  never  wean  young  animals 
until  they  have  learned  to  eat  and,  when  weaned,  feed  them  a mixed  diet  with 
some  milk.  Lime  is  usually  the  best  remedy  and  if  the  bowels  are  too  costive 
give  either  sweet  oil,  castor  oil  or  raw  linseed  oil.  The  weak  legs  should  be 
supported  with  bandages  and,  sometimes,  splints.  I have  obtained  good 
results  by  giving  cod  liver  oil  and  syrup  of  phosphates.  However,  the  most 
important  thing  to  study  is  the  food  supply.  When  the  animal  is  weak,  keep 
it  on  smooth  footing. 

OSTEO-POROSIS — BIG  HEAD. — This  is  a disease  that  usually  attacks 
colts  before  they  are  four  years  old.  However,  it  does  affect  older  horses.  It 
generally  develops  without  showing  much  soreness.  The  bones  of  the  head 
are  the  most  likely  to  become  affected. 

CAUSES. — While  the  cause  is  not  well  understood,  the  disease  seems 
to  appear  when  colts  run  on  pasture  lands  which  are  deficient  in  the  salts  or 
lime  and  when  stock  run  on  low  swamp  lands  and  eat  grass  whi^'h  grows  in 
the  shade  and  lacks  nutritive  qualities. 

SYMPTOMS. — Without  any  warning  the  bones  of  the  head  commence 
to  enlarge  and  grow  soft  and  if  the  bones  of  other  parts  of  the  body  become 
affected  the  ligaments  or  muscles  may  lose  the'x  £...cachment  and  pull  off.  In 
many  cases  the  colt  shows  lameness  which  is  g lerally  diagnosed  as  rheu- 
matism. However,  if  a careful  examination  had  been  made  the  real  cause 
would  have  been  learned. 

TREATMENT. — There  must  be  some  fault  in  the  assimilation  of  food 
or  the  quality  of  food  furnished  the  animal ; or,  it  may  depend  on  the  kind  of 
place  in  which  the  animals  are  stabled.  Basements  that  are  damp  and  dark 
seem  to  favor  its  development.  The  best  results  follow  good  care,  proper 
feeding,  good  grooming,  giving  plenty  of  vegetables  or  pasturing  on  high 
ground.  Give  tonics  such  as  iron,  cinchona,  gentian,  fenugreek,  nux  vomica, 
cod  liver  oil  and  phosphate  of  iron.  No  treatment  will  help  advanced  cases. 
External  applications  never  do  any  good  unless  they  are  applied  very  early. 

GLANDERS,  OR  FARCY. — Glanders  is  a malignant  disease  of  an  infec- 
tious and  contagious  character  and  is  caused  by  the  spread  of  a specific 
organism,  the  bacillus  mallei.  The  lymphatic  glands  are  generally  affected 
and  it  usually  affects  the  air  passages.  It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  farcy 
is  the  same  disease  as  glanders  but  is  generally  seen  on  the  surface  of  the 
body.  It  is  an  incurable  disease  and  a very  loathsome  one,  affecting  men  as 
well  as  sheep,  goats,  dogs,  cats,  mice  and  rats ; but  cattle  never  take  it.  The 
disease  has  existed  two  thousand  years  or  more.  A remedy  has  never  been 
found  that  seems  to  cure  it.  However,  we  are  pleased  to  know  that  it  is  not 
nearly  so  prevalent  as  it  was  many  years  ago. 

CAUSES. — Some  of  our  ancient  writers  claim  the  disease  can  have  a 
spontaneous  origin,  but  this  is  nonsense  for  there  is  only  one  cause  and  that 
is  the  presence  of  the  germ,  bacillus  mallei.  I have  met  with  many  a case  of 
genuine  glanders  where  I was  unable  to  trace  the  contagion  but  the  animal 
must  have  become  inoculated  with  the  virus.  Any  animal  in  a weakened  con- 
dition will  contract  the  disease  much  more  readily  than  if  strong  and  well. 
Stabling  too  many  horses  in  poorly  ventilated  stables  helps  spread  it  if  a 
diseased  one  be  amongst  them.  I have  known  a horse  to  work  a year  with  a 
horse  that  had  glanders  and  not  become  diseased,  but  remember  that  this  is 
an  exception.  No  matter  in  what  way  the  virus  enters  the  body  it  may  infect 


108 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


another.  An  acute  case  is  much  more  contagious  than  a chronic  one.  The 
period  of  incubation  is  from  four  to  eight  days  but  chronic  glanders  may 
break  out  at  any  time  within  ten  or  twelve  months.  I have  often  found  cases 
of  glanders  where  gypsies  have  “ swapped  ” horses  and  where  horse  traders 
have  operated,  shipping  horses  into  the  country  from  large  cities. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  chronic  glanders  there  may  be  no  clinical  symptoms 
that  will  lead  you  to  decide  that  the  horse  has  glanders.  However,  if  you 
are  at  all  suspicious  and  know  of  his  having  been  subjected  to  the  contagion 
the  “ mallein  ” test  should  be  applied  for  this  will  pretty  correctly  determine 
whether  or  not  he  has  glanders.  It  can  be  safely  said  that  glanders  is  the 
most  insidious  disease  that  the  horse  is  heir  to  for  he  may  have  it  for  years 
and  not  show  it,  the  virus  remaining  latent  in  the  system  ready  to  show  itself 
under  favorable  conditions.  The  disease  is  usually  ushered  in  with  a chill, 
the  temperature  goes  up  and  sometimes  the  disease  assumes  an  acute  form. 
Some  time  later  a slight  discharge  comes  from  one  nostril,  perhaps  more  often 
from  the  '::ght  nostril  than  from  the  left.  This  discharge  is  rather  greenish 
at  first,  soon  changing  to  yellow.  It  is  very  often  highly  charged  with  al- 
bumen which  accounts  for  its  sinking  readily  in  water.  Sometimes  the  horse 
coughs;  his  coat  becomes  dry;  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  nose  is  covered 
with  pimples  which  point,  open  and  remain  sore,  healing  slowly  and  always 
leaving  a scar.  The  glands  of  the  body  are  affected  but  more  especially  at 
the  angle  of  the  jaw  and  in  many  cases  they  seem  to  cling  to  the  bone  and 
have  a peculiar  feeling  to  the  touch.  The  mallein  test  can  always  be  depended 
upon  for  I have  never  known  it  to  fail  even  in  cases  where  post-mortem  showed 
quite  slight  lesions.  In  cases  of  farcy  it  acts  equally  well.  There  is,  as  I 
have  said  before,  no  difference  between  glanders  and  farcy  only  in  the  manner 
in  which  the  disease  manifests  itself,  affecting  different  parts  of  the  body. 

THE  MiVLLEIN  TEST. — Ascertain  the  normal  temperature  of  the 
horse;  clean  and  disinfect  a selected  spot  on  the  neck  or  shoulder;  then  inject 
from  15  to  20  minims  of  mallein  under  the  skin.  Commence  taking  the  tem- 
perature six  hours  later,  taking  it  every  two  hours  until  the  twentieth  hour. 
If  the  temperature  rises  from  two  to  six  degrees  above  normal,  then  you  may 
safely  decide  that  the  horse  has  glanders.  The  normal  temperature  is  one 
hundred  and  one-fifth  degrees,  Fahrenheit. 

TREATMENT. — There  is  no  remedy  for  glanders. 

POST-MORTEM. — We  find  ulcers  in  the  nose  generally  high  up  and  the 
bones  may  be  diseased  with  the  septum  nasi,  or  wall  between  the  nostrils, 
almost  gone.  Sometimes  there  are  ulcers  in  the  throat  and  windpipe 
and  shiny  nodules  in  the  lungs.  Just  a word  of  caution:  working  around  a 
glandered  horse  is  dangerous;  cutting  up  one  that  died  or  was  killed  because 
he  had  glanders  is  dangerous  work.  Therefore,  you  are  warned  to  be  very 
careful  if  you  have  sores  on  the  hands.  The  body  of  the  horse  should  be 
burned  or  buried  under  the  ground  to  prevent  contagion.  The  stable  should 
be  thoroughly  disinfected. 

RHEUMATISM— SHIFTING  LAMENESS.— Rheumatism  is  a disease 
which  affects  both  the  muscles  and  joints  of  the  body  and  very  often  shifts 
from  one  part  to  another. 

CAUSE. — Rheumatism  of  the  muscles  is  generally  the  result  of  exposure 
when  in  an  exhausted  or  heated  condition,  while  rheumatism  of  the  joints  is 
due  to  some  micro-organism  in  the  blood,  which  is  deposited  in  or  around  the 
joints.  Certain  animals  seem  to  inherit  a predisposition  to  rheumatic  ail- 


HORSE— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


109 


inents.  Disorders  of  the  digestive  or  respiratory  organs  and  the  kidneys  have 
no  doubt  something  to  do  with  the  system’s  becoming  loaded  with  abnormal 
and  probably  acid  elements  which  may  give  rise  to  pain  in  the  muscles,  ten- 
dons, joints  and  bursa.  Following  many  germ  ailments  it  is  not  unusual  to 
have  the  joints  inflamed  and  the  inflammation  shift  from  one  joint  to  another. 

SYMPTOMS. — A shifting  lameness  passing  from  one  joint  to  another 
indicates  a rheumatic  ailment.  The  joints  affected  are  not  always  swollen. 
The  animal  is  slightly  feverish  with  a quick  pulse  and  the  affected  parts  very 
seldom  suppurate.  Sometimes,  when  the  muscles  are  affected  they  contract, 
producing  pain  and  causing  the  animal  to  travel  with  a peculiar  gait.  When 
the  joints  are  affected  the  animal  suffers  considerable  pain  and  shows  great 
lameness,  while  if' the  muscles  are  affected  it  produces  stiffness. 

TREATMENT. — The  animal  should  be  placed  in  a comfortable,  dry 
stable  that  is  well  ventilated  but  warm,  and  the  body  should  be  clothed  prop- 
erly. Give  at  one  dose  from  five  to  eight  drams  of  aloes,  twenty  grains  of 
calomel  and  two  drams  of  ginger,  made  into  a bolus.  This  will  open  the 
bowels.  Or,  give  eight  or  ten  ounces  of  epsom  salts  or  a pint  or  more  of  raw 
linseed  oil  at  a dose  daily  until  the  bowels  move  rather  freely  and  feed  well 
salted  bran  mashes  or  vegetables  to  keep  the  bowels  open.  Give  one  dram 
of  iodide  of  potassium  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day,  or  a tablespoonful 
of  powdered  saltpeter  two  or  three  times  a day,  or  a tablespoonful  of  salicy- 
late of  soda  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day.  Or,  give  one  dram  of  pow- 
dered colchium,  or  fluid  extract  will  do,  and  one  dram  salicylic  acid  or  three 
drams  of  powdered  nitrate  of  potash  at  a dose  three  times  a day.  Apply 
mustard  anc  water  or  some  good  home  liniment  to  inflamed  muscles  or  joints 
twice  a dav. 

RHEUMATISM  IN  COLTS— LEAKING  OF  THE  NAVEL- 
SWOLLEN  JOINTS  — The  navel  of  a young  colt  should  never  be  allowed 
to  leak  after  birth  and  should  always  be  treated  for  fear  of  germs  entering 
the  body  through  this  channel,  bringing  on  rheumatism  and  swollen  joints. 
When  the  navel  leaks  blood  apply  Monsell’s  solution  of  iron  or  adrenalin  or 
tie  the  cord  with  silk  or  take  a stitch  around  the  leaking  blood  vessel.  If  it 
leaks  water,  apply  astringents  such  as  powdered  alum,  one  ounce,  and  sugar  of 
lead,  one  ounce,  dissolved  in  a pint  of  water.  Apply  this  solution  to  navel 
three  or  four  times  a day,  also  dust  on  equal  parts  of  iodoform,  boric  acid, 
powdered  alum  and  tannic  acid ; or,  apply  one  part  coal  tar  disinfectant  and 
fifteen  parts  water' or  one  part  coal  tar  disinfectant  and  four  parts  vaseline. 
When  the  joints  of  a colt  only  swell  do  not  apply  blisters  nor  open  them,  for 
if  you  do  it  will  generally  result  in  death  or  the  colt  will  be  ruined.  Apply 
equal  parts  of  extract  of  witch  hazel,  alcohol  and  water.  Take  good  care  of 
the  mare,  feed  her  properly,  keep  her  udder  clean  and  continue  treating  the 
navel  of  the  colt.  Also  avoid  tight  bandages,  for  when  applied  to  the  tender 
legs  of  a colt,  especially  in  hot  weather,  they  are  likely  to  do  harm.  Kindly 
understand  the  importance  of  not  interfering  too  much  with  nature  for  young 
colts  usually  outgrow  ailments  of  this  kind.  When  pus  forms  in  the  joint 
as  it  sometimes  does,  open  and  allow  proper  drainage  and  apply  weak  anti- 
septic healing  remedies,  protecting  the  parts  from  filth  and  flies. 

IMPURE  BLOOD — BAD  BLOOD. — This  is  an  abnormal  condition  of 
the  blood  brought  on  by  a variety  of  causes  such  as  would  result  from  expo- 
sure and  a limited  supply  of  poor  food  or  badly  cured  fodder  or  by  feeding 
too  much  nutritious  food  without  the  animal’s  having  sufficient  fresh  air  and 


110 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


exercise ; besides,  it  often  occurs  Avhen  animals  are  kept  in  damp,  filthy,  base- 
ment stables  and  are  not  kept  clean. 

SYMPTOMS. — An  unthrifty  condition;  rough  coat;  scaly  condition  of 
the  skin,  very  often  with  pimples;  stocking  of  the  legs  and  dullness  of  the 
animal  with  weakness  are  the  general  symptoms  of  bad  blood.  However, 
highly  fed  horses  with  skin  eruptions  may  have  impure  blood. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  horse  is  very  fat,  give  a purgative  of  aloes  or 
epsom  salts  or  raw  linseed  oil  and  cut  down  his  food  supply.  Give  a tea- 
spoonful of  powdered  saltpeter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  soda  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  wood  charcoal  at  a dose  in  feed  two  or  three 
times  a day.  If  occurring  in  the  summer,  turn  the  horse  to  grass  but  if  occur- 
ring in  the  winter,  salt  him  well,  give  mixed  hay,  well  cured  corn  fodder  and 
also  plenty  of  grain  and  vegetables.  It  is  also  important  to  groom  him  well 
and  give  him  daily  exercise.  Nearly  all  animals  that  suffer  from  febrile 
diseases  are  likely  to  have  impure  blood.  The  treatment  I have  prescribed 
for  chronic  indigestion  will  help  cases  of  this  kind. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  RECEIPTS  FOR  CONDITION  POWDERS.— 

1.  Tonic  and  Blood  Purifier. — Take  an  ounce  each  of  buchu  leaves,  digi- 
talis leaves,  skunk  cabbage  root,  cream  of  tartar,  epsom  salts,  black  antimony, 
fenugreek  seed  and  carbonate  of  iron ; two  ounces  each  of  bark  of  the  root  of 
sassafras,  elecampane  root,  gentian  root,  ginger  root,  rosin  and  saltpeter  and 
six  ounces  of  sulphur.  Directions. — Each  should  be  finely  pulverized  and  the 
whole  should  be  thoroughly  mixed  and  kept  in  air-tight  boxes.  Give  a table- 
spoonful twice  a day  in  bran  mash  for  two  weeks. 

2.  Relaxing  Condition  Powder  for  Use  in  Scratches,  Grease  Heel,  Etc. — 
Take  2 ounces  each  of  mandrake,  gentian,  epsom  salts,  skunk  cabbage,  blood 
root,  golden  seal,  and  stillingia ; four  ounces  each  of  licorice  root,  sulphur, 
coriander  seeds  and  ginger  root ; 3 ounces  each  of  lobelia  and  nitre  and  4 
ounces  of  powdered  copperas.  These  should  be  powdered  and  mixed  thor- 
oughly. The  dose  is  a tablespoonful  daily  in  feed.  A pint  of  sassafras  tea 
daily  will  aid  the  action  of  this  condition  powder. 

3.  Condition  Powder. — Take  1 ounce  of  tartar  emetic,  2 ounces  each  of 
gentian  root,  epsom  salts  and  juniper  berries  and  3 ounces  each  of  fenugreek, 
elecampane  and  ginger.  Powder  and  mix  thoroughly  and  give  a tablespoon- 
ful in  bran  mash  twice  a day. 

4.  Condition  Powder  for  Run  Down  Horses. — Add  one-half  part  of  cay- 
enne pepper  to  one  part  each  of  cream  of  tartar,  gentian,  fenugreek,  saltpeter, 
sulphur,  black  antimony,  rosin  and  ginger.  Mix  thoroughly  and  give  a 
tablespoonful  once  a day  in  bran. 

5.  Condition  Powder  for  Purifying  the  Blood,  Removing  W^rms  and 
Cleansing  the  Stomach  and  Bowels. — Pulverize  and  mix  thoroug  ly  equal 
parts  of  sulphur,  rosin,  cream  of  tartar,  saltpeter,  ginger,  poplar  bark,  cop- 
peras, blood  root,  buchu,  fenugreek  and  senna.  The  dose  is  a tablespoonful  in 
feed  once  or  twice  a day. 

6.  Condition  Powder  for  Stallions. — Take  4 ounces  each  of  madder  and 
white  rosin  ; 3 ounces  each  of  gentian  root,  black  antimony,  fenugreek  seed, 
ginger  root  and  sulphur,  2 ounces  of  anise  seed  and  one  ounce  of  Spanish 
flies.  Each  should  be  finely  powdered  and  the  whole  should  be  thoroughly 
mixed.  Toward  the  end  of  the  season  give  the  stallion  a slightly  rounding 
tablespoonful  in  his  morning  feed. 


HORSE— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


Ill 


7.  Blood  Purifier. — Mix  equal  parts  of  sulphur,  sassafras,  powder  of  man- 
drake and  cream  of  tartar  and  give  a tablespoonful  in  the  grain  once  a day. 
PERICARDITIS.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

PLETHORA.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

ANEMIA.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 

PURPURA  HEMORRHAGICA.— (See  ‘‘  Cattle  Department.”) 

BLOOD  POISONING  — PYEMIA  — SEPTICEMIA.— (See  “Cattle 
Department.”) 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  VEINS— PHLEBITIS.— (See  “Cattle 
Department.”) 

BLEEDING— BLOOD  LETTING.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 
DISEASES  OF  THE  SPLEEN.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 
TAPPINGJTHE  CHEST.— (See  “ Cattle  Department.”) 


CATTLE. 


Anatomy  of  Cattle,  General  Symptoms  of  Disease,  Action  of  Drugs,  How 

To  Give  Medicine,  Etc. 


ANATOMY  OF  CATTLE. — The  bones  and  joints  of  the  ox  are  known 
by  the  same  names  as  those  of  the  horse ; however,  there  is  some  difference  in 
their  skeletons.  The  ox  has  only  thirteen  pairs  of  ribs  while  the  horse  has 
eighteen  pairs.  The  horse  has  a rounder  breast  bone  than  the  ox.  The  ribs 
of  the  ox  are  united  to  the  breast  bone  by  joints  while  the  horse’s  ribs  are 
united  by  cartilage.  Because  of  the  difference  in  the  construction  of  the 
chest  the  horse  has  more  breathing  space  when  standing  up  and  the  cow 
when  lying  down.  This  is  why  the  horse  stands  up  and  the  cow  lies  down 
when  suffering  from  pneumonia  or  other  lung  diseases.  The  head  of  the  horse 
is  narrower,  especially  the  upper  part.  The  skull  of  the  ox  has  two  bony 
projections,  one  on  each  side,  which  extend  into  the  horns  and  are  hollow. 
The  ox  has  two  small  cardiac  bones  (heart  bones)  and  the  horse  has  none. 
The  ox  has  a divided  foot  while  the  horse  has  not  and  of  course  the  bones 
are  different. 

THE  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS.— 

THE  UPPER  LIP  of  the  ox  is  thick  and  hairless  and  when  the  animal 
is  healthy  and  free  from  fever  the  smooth  part  should  be  moist. 

THE  CHEEKS  on  the  inside  are  covered  with  numerous  little  tufts 
which  give  them  a rather  peculiar  appearance. 

THE  TONGUE  of  the  ox  is  rough  on  its  upper  surface  and  thicker  at  its 
base  than  that  of  the  horse.  It  is  used  to  pull  food  into  the  mouth. 

THE  SALIVARY  GLANDS  are  not  unlike  those  of  the  horse  and  of 
course  perform  the  same  function. 

THE  TEETH  of  the  ox  and  horse  differ  very  much.  The  ox  has  no  front 
teeth  in  the  upper  jaw,  their  place  being  filled  by  a pad  of  hard  tissue.  The 
lower  row  of  teeth,  when  grazing,  press  against  this  pad,  therefore  it  serves 
almost  the  same  purpose  as  the  teeth  would ; however,  it  is  a mistake  to  be- 
lieve that  cattle  can  thrive  on  as  short  pasture  as  horses  or  sheep.  There  are 
eight  teeth  in  the  lower  jaw  and  the  molars  (grinders)  are  similar  to  those  of 
the  horse  but  smaller  and  rougher  on  their  surfaces.  The  ox  has  thirty-two 
teeth,  eight  in  front  and  twenty-four  back. 

THE  SOFT  PALATE. — In  the  ox  this  is  small  and  does  not  close  the 
opening  from  the  mouth  to  the  pharynx  and  in  this  respect  it  differs  from  the 
same  organ  in  the  horse. 

THE  PHARYNX  AND  GULLET. — In  the  ox  the  pharynx  is  consider- 
ably larger  than  in  the  horse.  The  oesophagus  or  gullet,  which  conveys  the 
food  to  the  stomach,  is  unusually  well  developed.  The  fibers  in  the  gullet  have 
a sort  of  double  action  and  when  the  animal  is  eating  it  carries  the  food  from 
the  mouth  to  the  stomach  but  when  the  animal  is  chewing  the  cud  (rumin- 
ating) the  fibres  act  in  the  opposite  way  and  the  gullet  then  conveys  the  food 
from  the  stomach  to  the  mouth  and  of  course  returns  it  to  the  stomach 
when  masticated. 


112 


CATTLE— ANATOMY,  ETC. 


113 


THE  STOMACH. — The  stomach  of  the  ox  is  a very  important  organ 
and  has  a capacity  of  from  50  to  65  gallons  and  has  four  compartments.  The 
first  is  called  the  rumen  or  paunch ; the  second  is  called  the  reticulum  and 
presents  a honey-comb  appearance ; the  third  is  called  the  omasum  or  many- 
plies ; and  the  fourth  is  called  the  true  stomach  or  abomasum.  The  real  process 
of  digestion  is  carried  on  mostly  in  the  fourth  compartment ; however,  the 
first  three  play  an  important  part  in  the  preparation  of  the  food  for  the  fourth 
or  true  stomach.  The  rumen,  or  paunch,  occupies  about  three-quarters  of  the 
belly  cavity  and  is  attached  to  the  left  side  by  ligaments  and  thus  held  in 
position.  It  is  important  for  the  reader  to  remember  the  position  of  the 
paunch  for  many  times  it  is  necessary  to  tap  cattle  for  hoven  (bloating).  It 
should  always  be  done  on  the  left  side  and  into  the  rumen.  This  compart- 
ment has  two  openings,  one  for  the  food  to  enter  and  the  other  for  its  exit; 
both  of  these  openings  are  in  the  front  side,  the  food  passing  from  here  into 
the  reticulum.  In  this  compartment  the  entrance  is  in  front  and  the  exit  in 
the  back  part.  The  function  of  this  organ  is  to  help  in  the  preparation  of 
food  for  its  return  to  the  mouth  for  remastication.  From  the  reticulum  the 
food  passes  into  the  omasum,  which  is  situated  on  the  right  side  of  the  paunch. 
The  food,  passing  from  here,  goes  into  the  true  stomach  to  be  digested  and 
from  here  the  food  passes  along  into  the  small  intestines. 

THE  INTESTINES  OR  BOWELS.— There  are  both  large  and  small  in- 
testines, being  very  similar  in  structure  and  action  to  those  of  the  horse. 
When  the  food  is  passed  into  the  small  intestines  it  is  acted  on  by  the  bile, 
which  is  secreted  by  the  liver,  and  also  by  the  pancreatic  fluid  that  comes 
from  the  pancreas.  These  juices  are  emptied  into  the  first  part  of  the  intes- 
tines through  little  tubes,  much  the  same  as  in  the  horse.  Throughout  the 
bowels  there  are  situated  in  the  coats  small  villi  which  pick  up  the  nourish- 
ment and  carry  it  to  the  blood,  the  balance  of  the  food  passing  out  in  the 
form  of  manure.  The  bowels  of  the  horse  are  smaller  than  those  of  the  ox 
and  shorter,  the  ox  having  about  150  feet.  The  large  bowels  of  the  ox  are 
very  much  smaller  than  those  of  the  horse  and  are  about  35  feet  long.  The 
bowels  of  the  ox  are  much  less  liable  to  become  diseased  than  those  of  the 
horse. 

THE  LIVER  AND  GALL  BLADDER. — The  liver  of  the  ox  has  a large 
gall  bladder,  much  the  shape  of  a pear,  to  store  up  gall  when  digestion  is  not 
going  on ; but  when  digestion  is  going  on  the  gall  bladder  contracts,  forcing 
the  bile  into  the  intestines. 

THE  PANCREAS. — The  pancreas  of  the  ox  is  very  similar  to  that  of 
the  horse  in  appearance  and  its  function  is  much  the  same. 

THE  SPLEEN. — The  spleen  of  the  ox  is  oblong  and  attached  to  the 
paunch  and  is  somewhat  different  in  shape  from  that  of  the  horse. 

THE  RESPIRATORY  ORGANS. — The  respiratory  organs  of  the  ox 
are  much  the  same  as  in  the  horse  and  are  not  nearly  so  liable  to  disease  and, 
with  the  exception  of  tuberculosis  affecting  the  lungs  and  throat  of  the  ox, 
his  air  passages  do  not  as  a rule  give  him  much  trouble  if  he  has  good  care. 

THE  URINARY  ORGANS. — The  kidneys  of  the  ox  are  larger  than 
those  of  the  horse  and  are  not  nearly  so  smooth.  The  bladder  and  passage  for 
urine  are  much  the  same  as  in  the  horse  but  where  the  urethra  opens  into  the 
vulva  it  is  different,  which  makes  it  more  difficult  to  draw  off  the  water;  a 
little  depression  at  the  opening  causes  the  trouble. 

THE  PULSE. — The  normal  number  of  heart  beats  is  from  forty-eight 
3—8 


114 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


to  fifty-six  per  minute;  however,  in  calves  and  old  animals  the  pulse  is  gen- 
erally faster.  The  most  convenient  place  to  take  the  pulse  is  on  the  under- 
border of  the  lower  jaw  and  in  health  the  beat  is  generally  softer  than  it  is 
in  the  horse.  The  artery  should  be  dropped  in  gently  between  the  first  and 
second  finger,  but  the  thumb  should  not  be  used  for  fear  of  counting  the 
pulsation  in  your  own  artery. 

THE  RESPIRATION. — In  health  this  will  usually  run  from  eleven  to 
eighteen  or  twenty  per  minute  and  is  easily'counted  by  watching  the  nostrils, 
flanks,  or  the  heaving  of  the  chest.  Considerable  practice  is  required  to  do 
chest  sounding;  however,  in  health  the  passage  of  air  through  the  air  pass- 
ages should  be  smooth  and  uninterrupted,  while  in  disease  of  the  lungs  or 
bronchial  tubes  the  breathing  is  obstructed. 

THE  TEMPERATURE. — The  temperature  in  cattle  is  a great  guide  in 
ascertaining  if  they  are  in  a normal  condition  and  every  dairyman  should  be 
equipped  with  a clinical  thermometer  which  holds  the  registration  until  shook 
down.  The  thermometer  is  usually  inserted  in  the  rectum  and  left  there  two 
or  three  minutes.  The  normal  temperature  in  cattle  is  considered  to  be  101 
degrees ; however,  I must  place  it  at  IOIV2,  for  after  taking  the  temperature 
of  thousands  of  cattle  that  were  perfectly  healthy,  their  temperature  registered 
nearer  IOIV2  degrees.  The  temperature  of  the  horse  when  in  perfect  health  is 
nearer  100%  than  any  other  point.  Whenever  the  temperature  goes  much 
above  the  normal  point  the  animal  is  considered'  feverish. 

GENERAL  SYMPTOMS  OF  DISEASE. — A dry,  harsh,  staring  coat  is 
one  of  the  leading  symptoms  of  an  animal’s  being  out  of  condition  or  suffer- 
ing from  disease.  Also,  if  the  animal  shivers  when  not  exposed  to  cold  it  is 
another  symptom  that  should  be  regarded  with  fear.  Whenever  cattle  break 
out  in  a cold  sweat  after  having  been  ill  for  some  time  it  is  a bad  symptom. 
The  muzzle  when  not  covered  with  moisture  indicates  fever.  Another  symp- 
tom of  constitutional  disturbance  is  the  animal’s  ceasing  to  chew  the  cud  and 
when  this  occurs  in  milch  cows  their  milk  supply  usually  falls  off  quickly. 
Whenever  the  bowels  are  inclined  to  be  too  costive  or,  too  loose  and  this 
condition  continues  for  some  time  it  always  proves  difficult  to  correct.  A cough 
is  usually  a symptom  of  disease,  especially  if  it  becomes  chronic,  therefore  an 
effort  should  be  made  to  relieve  it  for,  if  neglected  as  it  many  times  is,  it 
usually  runs  on  until  it  becomes  incurable. 

ACTION  OF  DRUGS  IN  CATTLE.— It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that 
certain  remedies  or  drugs  which  act  nicely  in  cattle  are  entirely  unsuitable 
for  horses,  even  if  they  are  suffering  from  the  same  ailment.  As  a rule  it  is 
good  practice  to  drench  cattle  slowly  and  dilute  the  drugs  well,  on  account  of 
the  quantity  of  food  in  the  stomach  of  cattle.  By  giving  the  drench  slowly 
its  chances  are  better  for  reaching  the  fourth  stomach  where  it  should  go ; 
besides,  I have  always  found  it  good  practice  to  give  cattle  larger  doses  than 
horses.  Many  times  they  require  twice  as  much.  The  common  purgative  for 
cattle  is  epsom  salts  (sulphate  magnesia)  but  never  add  much,  if  any,  calomel 
for  cattle  are  easily  salivated ; besides,  the  mercury  is  excreted  through  the 
milk  and  will  affect  calves  or  people  who  use  it.  Aloes  is  an  excellent  cathar- 
tic for  horses  but  is  not  fit  for  cattle.  Also,  oils  will  purge  cattle  but  their 
action  is  quite  uncertain  and  better  results  are  obtained  by  giving  lard. 
Turpentine  is  less  active  when  applied  to  cattle  than  to  horses  but  mustard 
appears  to  act  with  more  certainty  on  cattle  than  when  applied  to  horses. 


CATTLE— ANATOMY,  ETC. 


115 


Many  of  the  drugs  that  are  made  from  herbs  do  not  affect  cattle  the  same  as 
they  do  horses. 

GIVING  MEDICINE  TO  CATTLE. — Cattle  are  much  more  easily 
drenched  than  horses.  Tie  the  animal  short,  stand  to  the  left  side,  place  the 
thumb  and  finger  in  the  nostrils,  put  the  nozzle  of  the  bottle  into  the  mouth 
and  the  medicine  will  run  down  into  the  stomach  quickly,  but  of  course  the 
nose  should  be  held  high  enough  to  form  an  incline  for  the  liquid  to  run  into 
the  back  portion  of  the  mouth.  Placing  a ring  in  the  nose  and  elevating  it 
makes  the  work  easier.  A great  many  kinds  of  medicine  can  be  given  in  the 
feed  or  water  without  the  need  of  drenching. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 

(Including  Bloat,  Impaction,  Indigestion,  Scours,  Dysentery,  Constipation, 
Inflammation  of  the  Bowels,  Cornstalk  Disease,  Worms,  Rupture, 

Sore  Mouth,  Diseases  of  the  Liver,  Choking,  etc.) 


BLOAT — HOVEN — TYMPANITIS. — This  disease  is  characterized  by 
the  distention  of  the  paunch  or  rumen  and  is  the  result  of  fermenting  food, 
or  it  often  follows  choking. 

CAUSES. — Bloating  very  often  follows  choking  and  I have  known  it 
to  come  on  very  suddenly  from  this  cause  and  to  go  down  almost  as  quickly 
after  the  obstruction  was  removed.  It  also  follows  acute  indigestion,  espe- 
cially where  thin  hungry  animals  are  turned  into  luxuriant  pasture  lots 
where  they  eat  far  too  much  wet  clover  or  frozen  vegetables  to  which  they 
have  not  been  accustomed.  Some  cattle  bloat  from  eating  alfalfa  hay. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  usually  exhibits  some  pain,  breathes  quick 
and  the  abdomen  is  very  much  enlarged  and  the  left  flank  more  than 
the  right.  By  tapping  the  end  of  the  fingers  on  the  left  flank  a drum-like 
sound  can  be  heard.  The  animal  exhibits  distress  and  shows  it  by  expres- 
sion and  generally  moves  about  slowly.  In  bad  cases  you  will  find  that  when 
the  flank  is  pressed  in  and  the  pressure  taken  off  suddenly  the  parts  fly  back 
into  place  quickly.  I have  known  cases  of  rupture  of  the  stomach  caused  from 
the  rapid  formation  of  gas ; therefore,  when  the  symptoms  are  at  all  alarming 
prompt  measures  should  be  taken  to  relieve  the  animal. 

TREATMENT. — In  every  severe  case  where  the  life  of  the  animal  is 
threatened  tapping  should  be  resorted  to  at  once  for  there  is  but  little  dan- 
ger from  this  operation.  In  mild  cases  it  is  not  always  necessary  to  give 
any  medicine,  but  in  acute  cases  the  treatment  should  be  prompt.  If  the 
bloat  is  great  and  the  left  flank  drum-like  the  gas  should  be  liberated  at  once 
and  this  is  best  done  by  puncturing  the  paunch.  Before  puncturing,  the 
left  flank  should  be  washed  off  with  soap  and  water  and  then  wet  with  one 
part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts  water.  Cut  through  the  skin  and  push 
the  trocar  into  the  paunch  in  a downward  direction,  pulling  out  the  trocar 
and  leaving  the  canula  in  for  the  gas  to  pass  through.  If  you  have  no  other 
suitable  instrum.ent  use  a common  pointed  knife,  which  answers  very  well  and 
is  not  attended  with  much  risk.  When  the  case  demands  puncturing*,  open 
the  flank  about  a hand-span  from  the  last  rib  and  lumbar  vertebra  and  if  a 
knife  is  used  instead  of  a trocar  and  canula  use  a quill  or  tube  to  allow  the 
gas  to  pass  through.  If  it  becomes  necessary  to  puncture  the  animal  a second 
time  you  had  better  make  a new  opening.  When  a remedy  would  seemingly 
correct  this  trouble  give  one-half  ounce  salicylic  acid  in  a pint  of  hot  water 
and,  if  this  gives  no  relief,  in  fifteen  minutes  give  another  dose,  repeating 
the  doses  every  fifteen  minutes  until  relief  is  obtained.  Or,  give  one  ounce 
aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia,  one  dram  fluid  extract  caliber  bean  and  three 
ounces  hypo-sulphite  of  soda,  in  a pint  of  water ; and,  if  necessary,  repeat  the 
dose  in  thirty  minutes.  If  you  have  neither  of  the  above  remedies  give  one 
ounce  ginger,  two  ounces  whiskey  and  one-half  ounce  of  turpentine  in  a pint 

116 


DR.  FAIR  TARPIXG  A COW  FOR  llOVKN  OR  BLOA'J'. 

Be  sure  to  tap  a cow  in  tlie  left  flank  and  a horse  in  the  right  flank. 
(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


CATTLE— -DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


117 


of  sweet  oil  or  raw  linseed  oil.  In  some  cases  relief  will  be  obtained  by  keep- 
ing the  mouth  open  with  a block  of  wood.  After  puncturing  cattle  I always 
give  them  a full  dose  of  epsom  salts,  which  is  from  one  to  two  pounds, 
with  a tablespoonful  or  two  of  ginger  in  three  or  four  pints  of  water.  (See 
‘‘  Tapping  the  Paunch  or  Rumen.”) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BLOATING.— 

1.  Tapping. — With  a small-bladed  knife  tap  the  cow’s  paunch  and  in- 
sert a clean  pipe  stem  or  goose  quill  to  allow  the  escape  of  the  gas.  The  cow 
should  be  tapped  where  the  bloating  is  most  prominent  which  is  generally 
in  the  triangle  of  the  left  flank,  midway  between  the  last  rib  and  the  point  of 
the  hip  bone. 

2.  Bitting. — Take  a piece  of  broom  handle  six  or  eight  inches  long  and 
use  it  in  the  mouth  as  a bit.  This  may  be  held  in  place  by  tying  a cord  to 
one  end,  bringing  it  up  over  the  head  back  of  the  horns  and  then  tying  to  the 
other  end  of  the  bit.  This  holds  the  mouth  open  and  allows  the  gas  to  escape. 
If  used  in  time  this  is  an  effective  remedy.  If  they  are  too  far  gone,  tapping 
the  flank  may  be  necessary. 

3.  Camphor. — Drench  the  cow  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  camphor 
mixed  with  a pint  of  water  and  repeat  in  30  minutes  if  necessary. 

4.  Cold  Water. — Fasten  the  cow  securely  and  then  continue  to  dash 
cold  water  on  the  back  and  sides  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  If  not  re- 
lieved, tapping  will  have  to  be  resorted  to. 

5.  Ginger  and  Soda. — Add  two  ounces  of  powdered  wood  charcoal  and 
two  ounces  of  tincture  of  ginger  to  a quart  of  warm  water  and  give  as  a 
drench. 

6.  Charcoal. — Mix  half  a teacupful  of  powdered  charcoal  with  a quart 
of  warm  water  and  give  as  a drench.  Charcoal  aids  digestion  and  at  the  same 
time  absorbs  large  quantities  of  gas,  two  things  which  are  much  to  be  desired 
in  case  of  bloating.  If  you  have  no  wood  to  make  charcoal  yourself,  keep  it 
on  hand  for  it  can  be  bought  at  anv  drug  store  and  costs  but  little. 

TAPPING  THE  PAUNCH  OR  RUMEN.— This  is  an  operation  per- 
formed on  cattle  to  relieve  bloat  when  drugs  fail  to  give  relief.  After  wash- 
ing the  flank  with  carbolic  acid  and  water,  one  part  to  thirty,  or  one  part 
coal-tar  disinfectant  and  thirty  parts  water,  insert  the  trocar  into  the  left 
flank,  selecting  the  center  of  the  triangle  formed  by  the  last  rib,  the  point  of 
the  hip  and  the  transverse  process  of  the  lumbar  vertebra  and  at  the  most 
bloated  or  prominent  point  direct  the  instrument  obliquely  downward  and 
inward  and  you  will  not  fail  to  tap  the  paunch.  Pull  out  the  trocar  and 
leave  the  canula  in  until  the  bloat  goes  down.  If  it  is  a bad  case  of  bloat 
and  you  have  not  the  proper  instruments,  do  not  hesitate  to  plunge  a knife 
into  the  left  flank,  using  a goose  quill  or  tube  for  the  gas  to  pass  through, 
for  it  is  not  a dangerous  operation.  (See  “ Hoven  or  Bloat.”) 

IMPACTION  OF  THE  PAUNCH  OR  RUMEN.— Impaction  is  where 
the  paunch  is  wedged  so  full  of  food  that  it  causes  a sort  of  paralysis  and  loss 
of  function  of  the  stomach. 

CAUSES. — It  is  caused  by  eating  too  much  straw  or  bulky  food  that 
lacks  moisture  and  by  eating  large  quantities  of  grain  when  the  animal  has 
not  been  accustomed  to  it. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  milch  cows  the  milk  flow  almost  ceases,  the  animal 
breathes  with  a grunt  and  there  may  be  bloating.  By  pressing  the  hand  on 
the  left  flank  a dent  when  made  is  slow  to  fill  out  and  by  tapping  over  the 


118 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


paunch  a dull  sound  is  made.  The  bowels  are  usually  costive  and  the  pas- 
sages are  dry  and  give  ofif  a disagreeable  odor. 

TREATMENT. — Give  from  one  to  two  pounds  of  epsom  salts,  one  ounce 
of  ground  ginger  and  one-half  ounce  of  laudanum  in  three  quarts  of  warm 
water  as  a drench  and,  if  the  bowels  do  not  move  in  twelve  hours,  give  one 
quart  of  raw  linseed  oil  or  give  three-fourths  of  a pound  of  epsom  salts.  It 
is  also  good  practice  to  give  a few  quarts  of  warm  water  every  two  hours 
as  this  assists  in  softening  the  contents  of  the  stomach.  Also  give  one  ounce 
of  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  and  one  dram  of  fluid  extract  of  nux  vomica 
in  a pint  of  cold  water  every  four  hours  until  the  bowels  move.  In  cases 
where  there  is  much  pain  give  four  or  five  grains  of  morphine  every  six 
hours.  In  extreme  cases  I have  obtained  good  results  by  giving  one  dram  of 
croton  oil  and  two  drams  of  fluid  extract  of  nux  vomica  in  a quart  of  raw 
linseed  oil.  When  these  remedies  fail  the  operation  of  rumenotomy  should 
be  performed.  This  treatment  consists  in  opening  the  left  flank  and  removing 
the  contents  by  hand.  This  is  not  by  any  means  a dangerous  operation  and 
is  one  that  I never  hesitate  to  perform  when  I believe  the  animal  is  in  danger 
of  dying.  After  the  cow  has  been  cast  and  rolled  on  her  right  side,  the  left 
flank  washed  clean  and  the  hair  clipped  off  short,  apply  one  part  carbolic 
acid  to  thirty  parts  water,  or  one  part  of  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  twenty 
parts  of  water.  Then  cut  into  the  left  flank  in  the  triangle  where  the  paunch 
lies  close  to  the  muscles.  The  opening  must  be  made  large  enough  to  admit 
the  hand.  The  edges  of  the  stomach  should  be  secured  with  strings  to  hold  it 
up  to  the  wound  and  after  the  stomach  is  emptied  the  paunch  should  be 
stitched  with  catgut ; then  stitch  up  the  wound  with  silk  and  apply  equal  parts 
iodoform,  powdered  alum  and  boric  acid ; or,  you  may  use  any  home 
remedy,  such  as  coal-tar  disinfectant  or  carbolic  acid.  (See  ‘‘  Rumenotomy.”) 

RUMENOTOMY. — This  is  an  operation  made  through  the  left  flank  into 
the  paunch,  whereby  a portion  of  its  contents  is  removed  through  the  side, 
but  of  course  this  should  never  be  done  unless  the  stomach  is  badly  over- 
loaded and  distended.  Tie  the  animal  securely  to  a post  or  place  it  in  a 
stanchion  or  stocks  or  with  the  right  side  against  a wall.  The  animal  should 
either  be  tied  or  held  by  an  assistant.  Clip  the  hair  off  high  up  on  tlie 
flank  where  cattle  are  punctured.  Wash  with  carbolic  acid  and  water;  make 
an  incision  through  the  skin  and  muscle,  running  up  and  down  ; then  open 
the  paunch ; insert  a clean  piece  of  cloth,  wet  in  one  part  bi-chloride  of  mer- 
cury and  1,000  parts  of  warm  vrater,  to  prevent  the  food  getting  into  the  abdo- 
men; then  remove  as  much  of  the  food  as  necessary.  Wash  the  edges  of  the 
wound,  sewing  up  the  paunch  with  catgut  and  leaving  it  in.  Then  sew  up 
the  muscles  and  later  stitch  the  skin.  Be  sure  to  apply  one  part  carbolic 
acid  and  thirty  parts  water  to  the  wound  three  times  a da}o  Keep  the  animal 
tolerably  empty  and  the  bowels  open,  feeding  very  little  bulky  food  until 
the  wound  heals.  (See  ‘‘  Impaction  of  the  Paunch  or  Rumen.”) 

IMPACTION  OF  THE  MANYPLIES  OR  OMASUM— MAWBOUND. 
The  third  stomiach,  which  is  called  the  omasum  or  manyplies,  has  a great 
number  of  leaves  arranged  so  as  to  rub  one  another,  thus  keeping  up  a sort  of 
grinding  action  on  the  food  that  passes  between  them.  Sometimes  food  be- 
comes wedged  therein. 

CAUSES. — Many  cases  occur  when  animals  are  turned  on  to  new  grass 
before  it  has  grown  long  enough  for  them  to  eat  without  taking  in  a lot  of 
the  old  grass  and,  as  the  old  grass  has  very  little  nourishment,  it  very  often 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


119 


clogs  this  stomach.  The  same  thing  occurs  in  the  fall  when  cattle  eat  dry 
withered  grass  and  it  also  occurs  when  they  eat  dry  corn  fodder  in  the  winter. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  very  often  comes  on  gradually  much  the  same  as  con- 
stipation, finally  causing  some  pain  which  is  evidenced  by  the  animal’s  kick- 
ing its  belly  and  grunting  at  almost  every  breath.  If  pressed  on  the  right 
side  just  below  the  ribs  the  animal  evinces  pain.  If  the  disease  goes  on  the 
fever  increases  and  so  does  the  abdominal  pain.  A sort  of  delirium  and  ver- 
tigo sets  in  which  is  very  often  followed  by  death.  The  symptoms  of  this 
ailment  differ  from  those  of  impaction  of  the  rumen  for  it  causes  no  bloating 
of  the  left  flank. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  should  be  the  same  as  I have  prescribed 
for  impaction  of  the  rumen,  or  impaction  in  horses.  Unfortunately,  a sur- 
gical operation  cannot  be  performed  successfully  in  these  cases,  therefore 
it  is  much  more  fatal  than  impaction  of  the  rumen. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDY  FOR  IMPACTION  OF  THE  MANY- 
PLIES.— 

1.  Salt  and  Salts. — Give  a drench  of  a pound  of  epsom  salts  and  half 
a pound  of  common  salt  and  then  give  two  ounces  of  laudanum.  Also  give 
an  ounce  of  alcohol  every  four  hours. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  FOURTH  PART  OF  THE  STOMACH. 
— This  disease  is  not  nearly  so  likely  to  affect  old  cattle  as  young  calves.  It 
is  very  often  brought  on  by  eating  frozen  grass  or  frozen  roots  and  it  some- 
times follows  eating  over-ripe  grain.  In  calves  it  takes  place  when  chang- 
ing from  sweet  to  sour  milk  ; this  is  especially  true  in  very  young  calves. 

SYMPTOMS. — At  first  there  is  some  diarrhea  which  is  later  followed 
by  constipation;  the  nose  is  hot  and  dry;  the  ears  and  legs  are  cold;  the 
pulse  is  quick  and  hard  and  the  temperature  is  high. 

TREATMENT. — Give  raw  linseed  oil  in  three  or  four-ounce  doses  with 
from  thirty  to  sixty  drops  of  laudanum  added  and  rub  the  abdomen  with 
mustard  and  water  and  if  the  animal  is  in  much  pain  give  one  dram  of  lauda- 
num every  two  or  three  hours  until  relief  is  obtained.  It  is  always  good 
practice  to  clean  out  the  stomach  and  bowels  with  oil.  Feed  easily  digested 
food  and  not  too  much  at  a time. 

RUPTURE  OF  THE  STOMACH.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

DIARRHEA  OR  SCOURS. — Diarrhea  may  result  from  many  different 
causes ; however,  there  are  two  principal  causes,  the  first  being  an  increased 
action  of  the  muscular  coat  of  the  bowels  and  the  second  an  increased  se- 
cretion of  the  juices. 

CAUSES. — Eating  too  much  food;  eating  a large  quantity  of  food  of  an 
inferior  quality;  a sudden  change  of  food;  or  sudden  changes  of  temperature 
will  very  often  bring  on  looseness  of  the  bowels. 

SYMPTOMS. — Nearly  everyone  is  familiar  with  the  symptoms  of  diar- 
rhea. The  bowels  pass  off  too  much  watery  excrement  which  is  sometimes 
mixed  with  blood ; the  animal  loses  strength  rapidly  and  also  loses  flesh  and 
exhibits  great  thirst. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  good  practice  to  give  a dose  of  either  raw  lin- 
seed or  castor  oil  with  one  or  two  ounces  of  laudanum  and,  if  necessary, 
give  the  laudanum  every  two  or  three  hours  until  the  bowel  movements  are 
lessened.  I have  known  one-half  ounce  of  copperas  dissolved  in  a pint  of 
water  given  three  times  a day  to  check  bad  cases.  In  other  bad  cases  give 
one-half  grain  of  corrosive  sublimate  in  a pint  of  water  at  a dose  three  times 


120 


THE  PEOPLE^S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


a day ; or  give  50  grains  of  salol  three  times  a day ; or  give  plenty  of  ginger 
in  the  feed. 

COLIC- 

CAUSES. — Eating  too  much  food,  grass  or  vegetables,  or  drinking  too 
much  cold  water  will  very  often  produce  uncomfortable  feelings  in  cattle  and 
sometimes  produce  colic.  However,  colic  in  cattle  is  not  nearly  so  common 
an  ailment  as  in  horses. 

SYMPTOMS. — General  uneasiness,  casting  the  head  from  side  to  side, 
striking  the  belly  with  the  hind  feet,  switching  the  tail,  and  lying  down  fre- 
quently are  symptoms  of  colic.  The  pulse  usually  quickens  during  pain 
and  occasionally  the  animal  moans  and  grunts.  Unless  treatment  is  given 
the  pain  becomes  more  severe  and  some  bloating  takes  place. 

TREATMENT. — Give  one  ounce  of  sulphuric  ether,  one  ounce  of  lauda- 
num and  one  ounce  of  tincture  of  ginger  in  a quart  of  warm  water  as  a 
drench ; give  all  of  this  at  one  dose.  If  you  have  no  drugs  on  hand  give  six 
ounces  of  whiskey.  You  can  give  any  home  colic  remedy  that  is  used  in  hu- 
man practice,  but  be  sure  to  give  fifteen  or  twenty  times  as  much  at  a dose  as 
for  a person.  If  much  bloating  takes  place,  give  one-ounce  doses  of  aromatic 
spirits  of  ammonia,  in  a pint  of  cold  water  every  thirty  minutes  until  relief 
is  obtained. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  COLIC.— 

1.  Whiskey,  Pepper  and  Ginger. — To  a pint  of  warm  water  add  half  a 
pint  of  whiskey  and  a tablespoonful  each  of  ginger  and  black  pepper  and 
give*as  a drench.  This  dose  may  be  repeated  in  an  hour  if  necessary. 

2.  Linseed  Oil  and  Turpentine. — To  a pint  of  raw  linseed  oil  add  one 
ounce  of  spirits  of  turpentine  and  give  as  a drench  every  two  hours  until 
relieved. 

OFF-FEED— SUB-ACUTE  INDIGESTION.— This  is  a very  common 
ailment  in  cattle  that  are  over-fed  on  grain  and  is  most  likely  to  affect  those 
that  are  being  fattened  or  cows  which  are  forced  to  produce  big  records. 
Also,  poor  food  may  be  the  cause. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  refuses  to  eat  all  the  feed  put  before  it. 
There  is  some  fullness  and  constipation  or  impaction  of  the  rumen  but  very 
little,  if  any,  pain. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a full  dose  of  epsom  salts,  IV2  pounds,  with  plenty 
of  water;  also  give  a teaspoonful  of  fluid  extract  of.nux  vomica  in  four  ounces 
of  sweet  oil  or  raw  linseed  oil,  at  a dose  three  times  a day.  Feed  lightly  for 
a few  days.  Remedies  recommended  for  chronic  indigestion  are  suitable  for 
cases  of  this  kind. 

CHRONIC  INDIGESTION. — This  is  a condition,  which  has  lasted  some 
time,  in  which  the  digestive  organs  have  failed  to  perform  their  normal 
functions. 

CAUSES. — It  is  generally  the  result  of  eating  a poor  quality  of  food 
or  eating  too  much  food  without  sufficient  exercise  but,  fortunately,  cattle 
are  not  nearly  so  likely  to  suffer  from  dyspepsia  as  horses.  The  worst  cases 
of  which  I have  ever  known  have  resulted  from  eating  large  quantities  of 
badly-cured,  non-nutritious  fodder  when  the  animal  was  stabled  in  a filthy 
and  badly  ventilated  barn. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  usually  has  a dry  coat  and  presents  an  un- 
thrifty appearance ; the  hide  is  tight  to  the  bones ; the  appetite  is  either  poor 
or  capricious  and  the  animal  appears  as  though  the  food  has  done  him  no 


SKELETON  OF  THE  COW. 


STOMACH  OF  THE  COW. 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


121 


good.  V/hen  cows  are  affected  they  give  very  little  milk  and  the  bowels  are 
usually  costive. 

TREATMENT. — Give  easily  digested  food  such  as  silage,  vegetables, 
clover  hay,  bran,  oats,  corn  and  linseed  meal  with  plenty  of  salt  added.  Also 
give  a tablespoonful  of  the  following  compound  powder  at  a dose  in  feed  three 
times  a day : gentian,  baking  soda,  ginger  and  fenugreek,  equal  parts  by 
weight.  (Also  see  treatment  for  indigestion  in  horses.) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  INDIGESTION.— 

1.  Glauber’s  Salts. — Give  four  ounces  of  Glauber’s  salts  every  three  or 
four  days  until  cured. 

2.  "Ginger  as  a Preventive  of  Indigestion. — Give  a tablespoonful  of 
ginger  and  a tablespoonful  of  baking  soda  in  the  feed  twice  a day  and  it  will 
be  found  to  be  a preventive  of  indigestion. 

INDIGESTION  IN  YOUNG  CALVES. — The  digestive  organs  of  a calf 
become  somewhat  sluggish  and  inactive,  very  often  by  an  over  supply  of  rich 
milk  or  by  giving  them  milk  from  cows  that  calved  long  ago;  or,  it  may  re- 
sult from  not  feeding  calves  often  enough.  It  also  occurs  from  feeding  un- 
wholesome food,  keeping  them  in  dirty,  filthy  pens  and  also  from  licking 
hair  off  other  calves  and  themselves. 

SYMPTOMS. — They  are  usually  dull  and  dumpish,  their  breath  has  a 
bad  odor,  they  are  usually  pot-bellied  and  the  bowels  generally  costive,  but 
in  some  cases  they  may  have  diarrhea. 

TREATMENT. — Empty  the  stomach  and  bowels  by  giving  a cathartic 
of  castor  oil  or  linseed  oil.  Also  give  some  baking  soda  with  their  milk  or 
in  their  feed,  and  give  them  some  lime  water.  It  is  important  to  study  the 
cause  and  remove  it  if  possible ; however,  it  is  important  to  supply  them  with 
a good  quantity  of  wholesome  food. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDY  FOR  INDIGESTION  IN  CALVES.— 

1.  Castor  Oil,  Soda  and  Ginger. — For  a calf  three  months  old  give  a 
dose  of  2 ounces  of  castor  oil  and  V2  ounce  each  of  ginger  and  common 
baking  soda.  If  the  calf  is  scouring  it  is  well  to  add  15  drops  of  laudanum 
to  this  remedy.  Each  morning,  for  a few  days  after  giving  the  above,  give 
half  an  ounce  each  of  soda,  salt  and  pulverized  ginger  in  a little  milk. 

DEPRAVED  APPETITE. — Cattle  very  frequently  suffer  from  this  pe- 
culiar affection  and  have  a capricious  appetite,  many  times  showing  a strong 
inclination  to  lick  and  eat  filthy  things  such  as  the  dung  of  horses  and  of 
other  cattle.  They  are  also  inclined  to  lick  lime,  eat  earth  and  chew  rags 
and  sponges. 

CAUSES. — It  is  caused  by  eating  bad  food  that  has  changed  so  as  to 
become  almost  indigestible  and  that  has  little  or  no  nutritive  properties.  It 
also  occurs  in  cattle  that  are  pastured  on  low  marshy  land  and,  strange  to 
say,  it  affects  some  cattle  and  not  others  that  are  fed  on  the  same  quality  of 
food.- 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  an  unthrifty  condition,  loss  of  flesh  and  strength 
and  a disposition  to  eat  the  things  above  mentioned.  They  always  show 
a rough,  staring  coat. 

TREATMENT. — A change,  of  feed  is  the  most  important  step  to  be 
taken.  Also  give  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  soda,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
ginger,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  gentian  and  the  same  quantity  of  pow- 
dered wood  charcoal  at  a dose,  either  in  feed  or  as  a drench,  three  times  a 
day.  Be  sure  to  keep  the  cattle  from  eating  the  kind  of  food  that  has  brought 


122 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


on  this  ailment  and  remember  that  remedies  that  are  prescribed  for  chronic  in- 
digestion and  dyspepsia  are  proper  remedies  for  this  disease. 

LOSING  THE  CUD— REMASTICATION.— As  far  back  as  I can  re- 
member a great  many  owners  of  cattle  have  believed  that  it  was  possible  lor 
the  ox  to  lose  his  cud,  but  it  is  only  a belief  for  such  is  not  true ; therefore,  you 
should  not  make  the  same  mistake  that  many  cattle  owners  have  done  in  giv- 
ing fat  pork,  rags,  sponges  and  the  filthy  inwards  of  chickens  with  the  view  of 
improving  the  digestion  and  causing  the  animal  to  remasticate  food.  In 
order  that  you  may  better  understand  how  cattle  and  other  ruminating  ani- 
mals remasticate,  let  me  say  that  the  food  is  eaten  hastily  and  swallowed  when 
partially  masticated.  It  passes  on  to  the  large  paunch  but  later,  by  a sort  of 
vomiting  action,  it  is  thrown  into  the  lower  portion  of  the  gullet  (oesophagus) 
and  then  the  gullet  reverses  its  action  by  contracting  at  its  lower  end  first 
and  thus  it  forces  the  food  back  into  the  mouth.  This  portion  of  the  food 
is  called  the  cud.  After  chewing  this  cud  thoroughly  the  bolus  is  swallowed, 
not  stopping  at  the  paunch  but  generally  passing  on  to  the  third  stomach 
and  after  being  more  perfectly  digested  it  passes  to  the  true  or  fourth  stom- 
ach, then  on  into  the  intestines.  As  soon  as  the  bolus  passes  down  another 
cud  is  passed  up  and  so  on  until  remastication  ceases.  Any  disease  that 
causes  loss  of  appetite  will  of  course  have  a tendency  to  prevent  the  ox 
chewing  his  cud,  but  as  soon  as  his  appetite  returns  and  he  eats  fodder  then 
his  chewing  of  the  cud  returns. 

DIARRHEA  — GASTRIC  CATARRH  — WHITE  SCOURS  IN 
CALVES. — This  ailment  is  very  often  the  result  of  some  error  in  feeding 
or  of  the  lack  of  care  that  is  given  to  the  feeding  utensils.  It  is  much  more 
common  in  hand-fed  calves  than  those  that  suck  their  mothers ; also,  calves 
that  are  fed  substitutes  for  milk  are  very  often  victims  of  white  scours. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are  the  passing  of  a thin,  yellow  excre- 
ment; general  dullness;  some  uneasiness;  loss  of  appetite  and  sometimes 
passing  of  blood  and  loss  of  flesh. 

TREATMENT. — Give  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  castor  oil  with  a tea- 
spoonful of  laudanum  added ; then  give  teaspoonful  doses  of  laudanum  four 
times  a day  and  if  the  laudanum  does  not  check  the  excessive  bowel  move- 
ments dissolve  one  ounce  of  sulphate  of  iron  in  a pint  of  water  and  give 
one-eighth  part  at  a dose  three  times  a day;  or,  try  dissolving  a teaspoonful 
of  baking  soda  in  two  ounces  of  lime  water  and  give  this  quantity  three  times 
a day.  I have  also  known  cases  where  tablespoonful  doses  of  good  flour 
corrected  scours.  In  bad  cases  give  ten  grains  of  salol  three  or  four  times 
a day  or  give  small  doses  of  bi-chloride  of  mercury  and  water,  one-half  grain 
at  a dose. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SCOURS  OR  DIARRHEA.— 

1.  Alum. — Dissolve  a piece  of  alum  as  large  as  a hen’s  egg  in  a bucket 
of  water  and  let  the  cow  drink  it.  This  will  be  found  a very  effective  remedy 
for  scours  in  either  cattle  or  horses. 

2.  Boiled  Potatoes. — Three  times  a day  feed  a peck  of  boiled  potatoes 
while  warm. 

3.  Flour  and  Water. — Give  at  one  dose  a quart  of  wheat  flour  mixed 
with  water  until  it  is  smooth  and  just  thin  enough  to  run.  The  dose  sel- 
dom has  to  be  repeated. 

4.  Salt. — A handful  of  salt  will  frequently  cure  the  scours. 

5.  Camphor,  Rhubarb  and  Laudanum. — Mix  equal  parts  of  spirits  of 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


123 


camphor,  tincture  of  rhubarb,  and  laudanum.  This  mixture  should  be  put 
into  one-half  pint  of  water  and  ^iven  as  a drench.  The  dose  for  a cow  is 
a dessert  spoonful  and  for  a calf  a teaspoonful.  This  dose  may  be  repeated 
in  three  hours  if  necessary. 

6.  Ginger,  Charcoal  and  Baking  Powder. — Twice  a day  give  a teaspoon- 
ful of  a mixture  of  equal  parts  of  charcoal,  ginger  and  baking  powder.  This 
dose  is  for  a small  calf  and  may  be  given  on  the  tongue  or  as  a drench. 

7.  Castor  Oil. — Give  a tablespoonful  of  castor  oil  twice  a day  for  a 
calf  not  over  three  months  of  age. 

8.  White  Scours  in  Calves. — Three  times  a day  give  half  a teaspoonful 
of  laudanum  in  a tablespoonful  of  castor  oil. 

INFECTIOUS  SCOURS. — This  is  a form  of  scours  that  attacks  calves 
that  are  only  a few  days  old  and  if  not  corrected  it  may  terminate  in  death. 
This  ailment  usually  is  the  result  of  diseased  germs  entering  the  body  through 
the  navel  cord. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  great  weakness  and  the  passing  of  thick  liquid 
feces. 

TREATMENT. — As  curative  treatment  very  often  fails,  an  effort  should 
be  made  to  prevent  this  disease.  Treat  the  navel  as  is  suggested  under  that 
heading.  Place  the  animal  in  a dry,  clean  stall  and  apply  one  part  of  car- 
bolic acid  and  twenty  parts  water  to  the  navel  before  and  after  the  string  has 
been  applied  and  use  disinfectants  freely.  Give  five  drops  creosote  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  twice  a day.  Also  give  five  grains  of  salol  three 
times  a day. 

DYSENTERY — BLOODY  FLUX. — Dysentery  usually  commences  in 
the  colon  but  may  extend  to  the  other  bowels  until  nearly  all  of  them  are 
affected.  The  mucous  membrane  is  where  most  of  the  disease  is  located.  It 
is  brought  on  by  feeding  badly  cured  hay,  poor  grain  or  other  food.  There  are 
certain  acid  and  poisonous  plants  that  bring  it  on  and  drinking  bad  water  is 
another  cause  of  dysentery. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  walks  slowly  and  appears  dumpish.  It  may 
have  some  abdominal  pain  and  the  muzzle  is  dry  and  the  coat  rough.  It 
stands  with  the  back  arched  and  presents  a sort  of  hide-bound  and  unhealthy 
appearance.  At  first  the  bowels  act  irregularly,  the  breath  is  fetid  and  so  are 
the  bowel  movements  and  they  are  often  streaked  with  blood.  This  disease 
very  often  terminates  fatally. 

TREATMENT. — This  disease  should  be  treated  very  much  the  same 
as  diarrhea,  always  giving  oil  at  first  with  quieting  medicine  and  bowel  anti- 
septics later.  I believe  in  keeping  the  animal  quiet  and  bringing  it  well  under 
the  influence  of  an  opiate  which  gives  the  animal  rest  and  always  checks  the 
excessive  bowel  movements.  If  the  bowels  are  leaking  blood,  dissolve  one 
dram  of  sugar  of  lead  and  two  drams  of  fluid  extract  of  ergot  in  a pint  of  water 
and  give  at  one  dose  two  or  three  times  a day.  Corrosive  sublimate  or 
salol  solution  should  be  given  if  other  remedies  fail. 

CONSTIPATION.— A costive  state  of  the  bowels  exists  for  want  of 
sufficient  moisture  in  the  stomach  and  bowels,  resulting  from  lack  of  exercise 
and  water  supply. 

CAUSES. — This  is  caused  by  feeding  too  ripe  food  and  too  much  dry 
fodder,  preventing  the  animals  from  taking  exercise,  and  not  giving  enough 
water.  It  is  also  the  result  of  offering  animals  impure  water  of  which  they 
drink  too  little,  thereby  depriving  themselves  of  sufficient  moisture.  In 


124 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


young  calves  the  bowels  are  inclined  to  be  costive  at  birth  and  immediately 
after;  but  of  course  the  first  milk  of  a cow  is  laxative,  but  if  it  does  not  pro- 
duce the  desired  effects  a remedy  should  be  given. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  passage  of  dry  manure  with  a sort  of  glazed  cover- 
ing is  a well  marked  symptom.  The  muzzle  is  often  dry  and  the  appetite 
poor.  If  not  relieved  it  may  result  in  inflammation  of  the  bowels  or  impac- 
tion, causing  bowel  pain. 

TREATMENT. — Give  food  of  a laxative  nature,  such  as  well  salted  bran 
mash,  vegetables  or  green  food.  Injections  into  the  rectum  of  soap  suds  at 
blood  heat  is  always  good  treatment.  Give  epsom  salts  or  raw  linseed  oil 
to  start  the  bowel  movements  and  keep  feeding  plenty  of  salt  which  will  in- 
crease thirst,  thus  causing  the  animal  to  drink  plenty  of  water,  which  is 
nature’s  remedy.  Besides,  it  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  the  bowels  move 
three  or  four  times  as  often  when  the  animal  is  exercised  as  when  standing 
still. 

CONSTIPATION  IN  CALVES— RETENTION  OF  THE  MECON- 
IUM.— At  birth  the  bowels  contain  a glue-like  material  which  should  be  ex- 
pelled very  soon  after  birth  for  if  not  it  may  do  harm.  The  first  milk  (colos- 
trum) possesses  laxative  properties  and  if  the  calf  sucks  plenty  of  it  the  bowels 
are  liable  to  loosen,  but  if  they  do  not,  push  in  a small  piece  of  soap  or  a 
glycerine  suppository  or  inject  into  the  bowel  some  sweet  oil  or  warm  soap 
suds,  but  be  very  careful  not  to  injure  the  bowel.  If  the  milk  from  the 
mother  fails  to  open  the  bowels  give  an  ounce  of  epsom  salts  and  repeat  in 
six  hours  if  needed. 

ENTERITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BOWELS.— This  is  an 
inflammation  of  the  lining  membrane  and  also  involves  the  muscular  wall 
of  the  bowels. 

CAUSES. — It  comes  from  eating  infected  or  poisonous  things,  either 
animal,  vegetable  or  mineral  and  it  may  also  be  brought  on  by  irritating 
drugs,  drinking  ice  cold  water,  or  chilling  the  surface  of  the  body  by  ex- 
posure to  cold  rain  storms  or  sleet. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  very  often  constipation  of  the  bowels  and  the 
excrement  which  is  passed  is  usually  covered  with  a slimy  mucus ; besides, 
the  dung  has  an  offensive  odor  and  is  sometimes  streaked  with  blood.  There 
is  loss  of  appetite,  high  fever,  quick  pulse,  dry  mouth  and  muzzle  and  in 
cows  the  milk  flow  almost  ceases.  The  urine  is  highly  colored,  the  animal 
may  bloat,  and  as  the  disease  progresses  the  ears  and  legs  grow  cold  and  it 
is  not  unusual  for  death  to  follow. 

TREATMENT. — Ascertain  the  cause  if  possible.  If  brought  on  by  irri- 
tating poisons,  either  vegetable  or  mineral,  give  two  ounces  of  sweet  oil  and 
one  ounce  of  laudanum  in  a quart  of  linseed  gruel  every  three  or  four  hours; 
also  give  thirty  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  aconite  at  a dose  every  three  hours 
until  the  temperature  lowers.  Also  give  a tablespoonful  of  powdered  salt- 
peter in  the  drinking  water  three  times  a day.  If  occurring  in  summer^  or 
during  temperate  weather,  apply  blankets  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  covering 
them  with  dry  ones  and  changing  them  every  hour.  After  recovery  takes 
place  the  animal  should  be  fed  on  easily  digested  food  that  is  not  too  bulky 
and  if  the  appetite  is  poor  give  tonics,  such  as  gentian  in  one-ounce  doses 
three  times  a day;  or  give  other  remedies  recommended  for  chronic  indiges- 
tion. 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


125 


PERITONITIS. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  membrane  that  covers 
the  bowels  and  other  abdominal  viscera  and  also  lines  the  abdominal  cavity. 

CAUSES. — It  is  brought  on  by  exposure  to  cold  rain  storms  or  standing 
in  a cool  wind  after  being  in  a heated  condition  or  by  lying  too  long  on 
cold  frozen  ground.  It  sometimes  follows  castration  or  spaying;  sometimes 
follows  calving  and  I have  frequently  found  it  to  follow  punctured  wounds 
which  penetrated  the  belly.  It  is  also  caused  by  kicks  from  horses,  being 
hooked  by  cattle  or  running  against  hard  things,  such  as  posts.  It  may  be 
caused  by  hanging  on  fences  and  the  consequent  bruising  of  the  abdomen. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  considerable  uneasiness  with  shivering  and  a 
turning  of  the  head  toward  the  sides.  There  is  a dry  muzzle  and  no  rumina- 
tion. The  legs  are  placed  well  under  the  belly,  the  pulse  is  quick  and  small, 
the  temperature  is  high  and  the  bowel  movements  are  dry  and  hard.  Apply- 
ing pressure  to  the  flanks  produces  considerable  pain.  Sometimes  the  symp- 
toms are  very  much  like  those  of  inflammation  of  the  bowels. 

TREATMENT. — Try  to  ascertain  the  cause.  If  from  a puncture  the 
treatment  of  course  will  differ  somewhat  from  the  treatment  of  cases  caused 
by  exposure.  Apply  hot  packs  such  as  suggested  for  treatment  in  inflam- 
mation of  the  bowels.  If  there  is  a wound,  treat  it  as  such  by  applying  perox- 
ide of  hydrogen  first,  then  inject  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  or  fifty 
of  water.  Also  apply  equal  parts  of  iodoform  and  boric  acid  and  give  the 
same  internal  treatment  as  prescribed  for  enteritis. 

CORNSTALK  DISEASE. — This  is  a disease  brought  on  by  cattle  eat- 
ing too  much  infected  corn  fodder.  Tlie  disease  occurs  throughout  the 
Western  and  Middle  States.  This  corn  fodder  appears  to  either  produce  a 
very  acute  indigestion  or  poisons  the  animal  and  young  cattle  are  usually 
affected  more  than  the  old  ones;  besides,  the  fodder  seems  to  be  most  harm- 
ful after  cold  rain  storms  which  perhaps  add  to  its  poisonous  properties. 
Cattle  that  are  hungry  when  turned  into  these  corn  fields  soon  become  affected 
if  they  eat  large  quantities  of  fodder  where  the  stalks  have  been  unusually 
rank  in  growth ; or,  cattle  that  are  turned  from  one  lot  to  another  often 
seem  to  suffer  from  this  ailment. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  first  symptom  noticed  is  the  sick  animal’s  being 
away  from  the  herd  and  standing  with  the  back  arched.  When  obliged  to 
walk  it  goes  with  a wabbling  gait,  twitching  the  tail  and  very  often  kicking 
its  belly  and  is  usually  somewhat  delirious,  which  symptom  becomes  more 
pronounced,  the  animal  acting  as  though  in  great  pain.  The  animal  frequently 
dies  within  twenty-four  hours  after  showing  symptoms  of  this  disease. 

TREATMENT. — Avoid  turning  hungry  animals  into  such  corn  fields 
and  allowing  them  to  remain  very  long  in  the  lot ; besides,  feed  other  food 
and  it  should  be  of  a laxative  nature,  such  as  alfalfa  or  millet.  See  that  they 
have  plenty  of  salt.  Following  these  directions  will  greatly  assist  in  pre- 
venting the  death  of  cattle  from  this  ailment  for  there  is  no  sure  remedy. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CORNSTALK  DISEASE.— 

1.  Tansy  Tea. — Frequently  give  five-pint  doses  of  tansy  tea  and  a cure 
will  be  effected. 

2.  Preventive. — Accustom  the  cows  to  eating  corn  and  stalks  before 
turning  them  into  the  field  and  you  will  have  no  trouble  with  cornstalk 

‘ impaction.  Also  see  that  they  have  plenty  of  salt  and  good  water. 

HAIR  OR  BINDER  TWINE  BALLS. — It  is  not  uncommon  to  find 


126 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


hair  balls  or  balls  composed  of  binder  twine  in  the  reticulum  or  in  the  rumen  or 
paunch. 

CAUSES. — Hair  balls  are  caused  by  one  animal’s  licking  another  during 
the  shedding  season  and  they  also  eat  binder  twine  with  their  fodder  which 
of  course  is  not  digestible  and  often  forms  into  balls. 

SYMPTOMS. — These  are  rather  puzzling  cases  to  diagnose;  however, 
they  cause  much  the  same  symptoms  as  indigestion.  There  is  general  un- 
easiness and  loss  of  appetite  but,  strange  to  say,  many  cattle  that  are  slaugh- 
tered have  large  haT  and  twine  balls  which  have  seemingly  done  no  harm. 

TREATMENT. — Treat  the  same  as  for  impaction  of  the  rumen  and 
inflamed  stomach,  by  giving  epsom  salts;  or,  cut  open  the  same  as  for  im- 
pacted rumen. 

INTESTINAL  TUMORS.— fSee  ‘‘Horse  Department.”) 

INTUSSUSCEPTION.— (See  “Horse  Department.”) 

FALLING  OF  BOWEL— PROLAPSUS  ANL— (See  “Horse  Depart- 
ment.”) 

RUPTURE  OF  THE  RECTUM.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

WORMS. — It  is  safe  to  say  that  cattle  are  bothered  less  with  worms 
than  any  other  species  of  domestic  animals,  therefore  it  is  seldom  necessary 
to  treat  them  for  intestinal  worms.  Tapeworms  and  round  worms  are  some- 
times found  in  the  bowels  of  cattle. 

SYMPTOMS. — Examine  the  manure  and  if  you  do  not  discover  any 
worms,  and  your  animals  are  thrifty,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  give  them 
treatment. 

TREATMENT. — For  tapeworms  give  a tablespoonful  of  oil  of  male  fern 
and  two  drams  of  powdered  kamala  in  a pint  of  milk  for  three  mornings  in 
succession  and,  after  the  last  dose  has  been  given,  give  from  one  to  two  pounds 
of  epsom  salts  in  two  quarts  of  warm  water.  This  will  act  as  a brisk  cathar- 
tic. If  you  suspect  that  your  cattle  are  wormy  give  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  following  compound  powder  at  a dose  in  feed  twice  a day:  powdered 
sulphate  of  iron,  ground  gentian,  ground  ginger,  bi-carbonate  of  soda  and 
ground  worm  seed.  It  is  not  always  necessary  to  give  as  large  doses  as  I 
have  prescribed.  Another  very  effectual  remedy  is  to  give  one  dram  of  san- 
tonine  and  thirty  grains  of  calomel  at  a dose  in  feed  every  morning  for  three 
or  four  days  and  to  follow  with  a cathartic  of  epsom  salts.  I have  also  ob- 
tained good  results  by  giving  oil  of  turpentine,  two  tablespoonfuls  in  a pint 
of  raw  linseed  oil,  once  a day  for  a few  days. 

HERNIA  OR  RUPTURE. — A hernia,  or  rupture,  is  the  displacement  of 
some  internal  organ  through  a natural  or  unnatural  opening.  It  generally  has 
reference  to  the  protrusion  of  the  bowel  and  omentum  through  an  opening 
in  the  wall  of  the  abdomen. 

VENTRAL  HERNIA. — This  is  where  the  protrusion  is  through  the 
abdominal  wall  and  the  skin  remains  intact. 

CAUSES. — Hernia  may  be  produced  by  kicks  from  horses  or  by  blows 
of  the  horns  of  other  cattle  or  by  falls  or  sprains.  It  may  also  occur  in  ad- 
vanced cases  of  pregnancy  owing  to  the  stretching  of  the  muscles  and  in  old 
cows  it  may  come  on  without  any  apparent  injury. 

SYMPTOMS. — A rupture  in  cattle  is  very  often  found  on  the  right  side 
and  when  it  occurs  it  is  not  usually  painful,  but  later  on  may  enlarge  to  such 
an  extent  as  to  allow  the  bowel  to  strangulate,  then  great  pain  sets  in. 

TREATMENT. — When  a hernia  can  be  reduced  by  pushing  the  parts 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


127 


back  into  the  abdomen  and  a pad  with  bandage  applied  so  as  to  keep  it  in 
place  the  opening  may  close.  Melted  pitch  and  other  counter-irritants,  such 
as  turpentine  or  cantharides,  applied  directly  over  the  opening  with  a pad 
over  this  will  assist  in  producing  adhesive  inflammation.  When  this  treat- 
ment fails  it  is  necessary  to  resort  to  surgical  work.  After  the  animal  has 
been  cast  and  rolled  on  the  side  or  back,  the  skin  is  cut  through,  the  muscles 
sewed  with  catgut  and  the  skin  sewed  with  heavy  corded  silk  and  an  elastic 
bandage  is  then  applied  to  support  the  stitches.  This  operation  should  be 
performed  by  either  a veterinarian  or  an  experienced  dairyman. 

UMBILICAL  HERNIA  (Navel  Rupture). — This  is  a very  common  ail- 
ment in  calves  and  as  the  navel  opening  is  where  the  blood  vessels  pass  from 
the  foetus  to  enter  the  umbilical  cord,  this  opening  at  birth  should  close,  but 
it  does  not  always  do  so.  Therefore,  some  of  the  internal  viscera  may  de- 
scend, causing  what  is  called  navel  rupture. 

CAUSES. — In  some  new-born  calves  the  opening  appears  to  be  large. 
However,  it  is  often  enlarged  at  time  of  birth  from  the  pulling  loose  of  the 
cord,  allowing  the  intestine  to  pass  through  it.  It  may  also  occur  from  kicks 
or  blows. 

SYMPTOMS. — An  enlargement  at  the  navel  leads  one  to  suspect  that 
something  is  wrong  and  by  pressing  the  end  of  the  finger  on  the  bunch  you 
will  readily  push  the  sack  back  into  the  abdomen.  This  condition  is  abnormal. 

TREATMENT. — Never  be  too  hasty  with  remedies  for  many  cases  get 
well  without  treatment,  nature  effecting  the  cure,  for  as  the  animal  grows 
older  the  muscles  grow  stronger  and  the  disposition  of  nature  is  to  close  the 
opening.  In  some  cases  a pad  and  bandage  applied  seem  to  greath  assist 
nature  in  closing  the  opening.  In  a case  where  the  intestines  cannot  be  put 
back  a surgical  operation  is  necessary.  Then  the  skin  should  be  opened,  the 
adhesions  separated,  the  edges  of  the  opening  made  raw,  the  muscles  sewed 
together  with  catgut  and  the  skin  stitched  with  corded  silk  and  an  elastic 
bandage  should  then  be  applied  and  kept  on  until  the  wound  heals.  The 
stitches  should  remain  in  a week.  A simple  way  to  operate  is  to  return  the 
sack,  put  cross  pins  of  either  hickory  wood  or  steel  at  right  angles,  tie  a 
string  back  of  the  pins  and  leave  it  on  until  it  sloughs  off,  then  the  calf  will 
be  well. 

INGUINAL  HERNIA. — This  is  a condition  Avhere  a loop  of  the  bowel 
passes  down  into  the  scrotum  through  the  inguinal  canal  where  the  spermatic 
cord  is,  causing  some  enlargement  of  the  scrotum.  When  the  animal  shows 
much  pain  and  the  scrotum  is  swollen,  pass  the  hand  into  the  rectum  and 
explore  the  floor  of  the  abdomen  and  it  will  be  possible  to  pull  up  the  bowel, 
but  when  doing  so  the  animal  should  be  placed  on  its  back  or  the  hind  feet 
should  be  two  feet  higher  than  the  fore  feet.  This  will  assist  you  in  righting 
the  bowel.  If  this  occurs  in  a bull  he  had  better  be  castrated  by  the  covered 
method,  using  a clamp  and  allowing  the  testicles  to  slough  off.  If  it  occurs  in 
a steer  and  he  is  in  good  condition,  market  him. 

SCROTAL  HERNIA. — This  is  when  the  bowel  passes  down  the  canal 
into  the  scrotum  and  I have  known  many  calves  to  be  in  this  condition  at 
birth.  Everything  goes  on  all  right  so  long  as  the  opening  is  large  enough 
to  allow  the  feces  to  pass  through  the  loop  of  bowel  without  the  intestine 
becoming  strangulated  or  impacted,  thus  causing  inflammation.  The  open- 
ing in  young  animals  has  a tendency  to  close  and  it  very  often  does  so, 
crowding  the  bowel  up  into  the  body.  In  many  cases  the  animal  suffers  no 


128 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


special  inconvenience  and  requires  no  treatment,  but  if  they  do  require 
treatment  they  should  be  castrated  by  the  covered  operation.  (See  “ Castra- 
tion ” in  Horse  Department.) 

DIAPHRAGMATIC  HERNIA. — This  may  occur  from  violent  muscular 
efforts  or  the  diaphragm  may  become  lacerated  from  a broken  rib  or  any 
other  offending  body.  No  matter  how  slight  may  be  the  rupture  of  the 
diaphragm  it  is  a serious  trouble  and  not  much  can  be  done  in  the  line  of 
treatment  to  relieve  it  except  to  give  rest.  Anodynes  will  allow  a slight 
case  to  merge  along  into  the  chronic  form.  However,  it  seldom  pays  to 
treat  them. 

MESENTERIC  AND  OMENTAL  HERNIA.— This  is  a condition 
where  a complete  obstruction  of  the  bowels  takes  place  and  it  is  very  diffi- 
cult to  make  a diagnosis  or  apply  a remedy. 

VAGINAL  HERNIA. — This  sometimes  takes  place  and  when  it  does  it 
should  be  treated  the  same  as  eversion  of  the  vagina,  by  placing  the  animal  in 
a position  with  the  hind  parts  about  a foot  higher  than  the  fore  parts  and 
giving  laxatives  to  open  the  bowels  and  keeping  the  animal  empty. 

IRREGULAR  TEETH. — Irregularity  of  the  teeth  is  very  often  the  re- 
sult of  an  uneven  wearing  of  them  and  the  incisor  teeth  (nippers)  are  some- 
times broken  accidentally  by  cattle  grazing  on  gravelly  soil  or  by  taking 
hold  of  mangers  covered  with  hoop  iron  or  by  kicks,  thus  splitting  the  tooth. 
Also,  some  cattle  have  trouble  when  shedding  their  first  teeth. 

TREATMENT. — Examine  the  animal’s  mouth  by  placing  a gag  in  the 
mouth  to  keep  it  open,  or  pull  the  tongue  well  forward  and  introduce  the 
hand  to  keep  it  open.  This  can  be  done  easily  for  I have  seldom  found  it 
necessary  .to  use  anything  except  the  closed  hand,  but  of  course  a balling 
iron  or  mouth  speculum  is  much  more  convenient  on  account  of  its  holding 
the  mouth  open  wider,  thereby  giving  an  inexperienced  person  a better  op- 
portunity to  examine  the  back  part  of  the  mouth.  It  is  seldom  necessary 
to  do  more  than  to  extract  a tooth  or  file  off  the  sharp  cutting  points  that 
are  wounding  the  cheeks,  tongue  or  lips.  For  a mouth  wash  there  is  nothing 
better  than  borax  and  water,  one  ounce  to  a quart,  and  it  should  be  applied 
three  times  a day. 

CAPS  ON  THE  TEETH. — Cattle  between  two  and  four  years  of  age 
when  shedding  their  temporary  teeth  or  milk  grinders  sometimes  have  trouble 
on  account  of  the  first  teeth  or  caps  hanging  on  too  long  while  the  new 
teeth  are  growing  in.  This  sometimes  produces  suppuration  and  a soreness 
of  the  mouth  which  is  soon  discovered  by  using  the  same  means  of  examina- 
tion which  I have  recommended  under  ‘‘Irregular  Teeth.” 

TREATMENT. — Remove  the  cause  by  pulling  off  the  cap  with  a pair 
of  pincers  or  forceps,  then  wash  the  mouth  with  borax  and  water  or  any 
mild  non-poisonous  antiseptic  solution  you  may  have  on  hand.  Borax  and 
water  or  salt  and  water  will  prove  very  satisfactory. 

DECAYED  TEETH  (Caries). — As  nearly  all  stockmen  and  farmers 
know,  whenever  a tooth  or  bone  is  decaying  it  gives  off  a very  offensive 
odor,  differing  entirely  from  that  of  any  other  decomposing  tissue  or  part  of 
the  body.  To  make  sure  that  a tooth  is  decaying  use  a balling  iron  or 
speculum  or  pull  the  tongue  forward  and  close  the  hand,  leaving  it  between 
the  teeth  and  upper  jaw  to  keep  the  mouth  open,  then  introduce  the  other 
hand  and  examine  for  a decayed  tooth. 

TREATMENT. — The  only  satisfactory  remedy  is  to  extract  the  tooth 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


129 


with  a pair  of  forceps  made  for  the  purpose,  then  the  opening  in  the  jaw 
will  soon  close.  I have  often  plugged  the  opening  temporarily  with  gutta- 
percha and  have  found  it  to  work  nicely  for  it  keeps  the  food  out  of  the 
wound  until  the  tissues  grow  and  fill  the  openings. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  TONGUE— GLOSSITIS.— 

CAUSES. — This  comes  from  injuries  of  any  kind,  from  giving  irritating 
drugs,  from  eating  certain  acrid  plants  which  contain  too  much  acid  and 
irritating  properties  and  it  is  also  caused  by  a disturbed  stomach. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  generally  some  discharge  of  saliva  from  the 
mouth,  the  tongue  and  mouth  are  inflamed  and  in  calves  there  are  very  often 
little  red  elevations  noticed  in  the  mouth.  These  red  spots  may  suppurate 
in  the  center  and  show  ulcerated  patches.  The  tongue  swells  and  frequently 
hangs  out  of  the  mouth. 

TREATMENT. — When  the  mouth  is  only  inflamed  wash  it  out  four 
or  five  times  a day  with  a solution  made  by  dissolving  one-half  pound  of 
alum  in  a gallon  of  water  and  if  there  are  any  ulcers  or  ulcerated  patches 
apply  a caustic.  The  nitrate  of  silver  pencil  is  the  handiest.  When  the  mouth 
shows  a cankered  condition  give  one  ounce  of  baking  soda  at  a dose  as  a 
drench  in  a quart  of  water.  Or,  give  one  ounce  of  powdered  charcoal  and 
forty  grains  of  salol  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BLACK  TONGUE.— 

1.  Alum,  Lime,  Etc. — The  animal  should  be  bled  from  the  neck  vein 
and  then  given  a pint  of  castor  oil  which  may  be  repeated  in  10  hours  if 
it  has  not  operated.  As  a local  application,  use  four  ounces  of  burnt  alum 
and  two  ounces  of  chloride  of  lime  mixed  in  one  gallon  of  water  and  fre- 
quently swab  the  mouth  with  this  mixture. 

INJURIES  TO  THE  TONGUE.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

SORE  MOUTH — STOMATITIS. — Young  calves  are  usually  the  vic- 
tims of  this  ailment  and  it  usually  comes  on  while  they  are  teething. 

CAUSES. — It  frequently  follows  inflammation  of  the  navel  or  comes 
on  as  a result  of  the  lack  of  nutritious  food  and  it  may  be  the  result  of  diar- 
rhea. This  disease  is  not  nearly  so  common  in  grown  animals  as  it  is  in 
calves  and  very  often  it  occurs  while  they  are  cutting  their  teeth. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  the  early  stage  there  is  usually  some  redness  of  the 
mouth  and  some  discharge  of  saliva,  and  in  a few  days  pointed  sores  appear 
which  are  white  in  color  but  soon  change  to  yellow.  The  tissue  breaks  down 
and  gives  off  an  offensive  odor.  In  some  cases  the  ulceration  is  so  extensive 
that  the  cheek  is  perforated.  In  severe  cases  where  the  animal  has  diarrhea 
death  very  often  results  in  eight  or  ten  days.  In  old  cattle  recovery  seldom 
takes  place  in  less  than  from  fifteen  to  twenty-five  days. 

TREATMENT. — For  a calf  give  eight  grains  of  quinine  at  a dose  four 
times  a day  and  if  there  is  diarrhea  give  a tablespoonful  of  lime  water  three 
or  four  times  a day.  If  the  animal  shows  great  weakness  give  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  whiskey  or  brandy  in  a teacupful  of  sweetened  water  three  or 
four  times  a day.  To  quiet  the  odor  from  the  mouth  use  permanganate  of 
potash  and  water,  one  dram  to  a pint,  or  put  a tablespoonful  of  carbolic  acid 
into  a pint  of  water  and  swab  the  raw  surfaces  several  times  a day.  The 
calf  should  be  fed  fresh  cow’s  milk.  Give  tonics  such  as  quinine,  gentian 
and  iron.  For  calves  give  ten  or  fifteen  grains  of  quinine  at  a dose  and  for 
cows  give  not  less  than  two  drams  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day. 

3—9 


130 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


SLAVERING. — Slavering  is  a dribbling  or  discharge  of  mucus  and 
saliva  from  the  mouth. 

CAUSES. — Slavering  is  usually  caused  by  some  foreign  body  lodging 
in  the  mouth  or  by  cattle  eating  irritating  plants  or  licking  fresh  lime ; or,  it 
may  be  the  result  of  applying  mercurial  ointment  and  it  sometimes  is  caused 
by  sharp  points  on  the  teeth.  It  is  also  one  of  the  symptoms  of  foot  and 
mouth  disease. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all  a very  thorough  examination  of  the  mouth 
should  be  made  to  ascertain  if  there  is  any  foreign  body  causing  the  trouble, 
and  if  such  is  the  case  it  should  be  removed.  Put  one  ounce  of  carbolic  acid 
and  two  ounces  of  glycerine  into  three  quarts  of  tepid  water,  or  dissolve 
three  ounces  of  powdered  alum  in  a gallon  of  water,  and  wash  out  the  mouth 
three  or  four  times  a day.  Sometimes  the  edges  of  the  teeth  become  sharp  and 
irritate  the  mouth.  This  is  easily  remedied  by  filing  off  the  points.  Some- 
times between  the  ages  of  two  and  four  years  the  caps  of  temporary  teeth, 
when  shedding,  cause  an  inflammation  of  the  mouth  which  is  readily  remedied 
by  pulling  off  these  milk  teeth. 

VOMITING.— This  is  not  a common  ailment  in  cattle  but  it  does  some- 
times follow  irritation  of  either  the  first  or  fourth  stomach  and  is  no  doubt 
the  result  of  eating  indigestible  material  such  as  pieces  of  cloth,  leather, 
or  any  other  substance  that  may  act  as  an  irritant.  Besides,  it  is  a result  of 
indigestion  and  when  it  does  occur  it  usually  takes  place  in  animals  that  are 
unthrifty.  Vomiting  generally  lasts  only  a short  time. 

TREATAIENT. — Feed  easily  digested  food  that  is  non-irritating,  also 
give  a small  dose  of  epsom  salts  to  clean  out  the  stomach,  or  give  one-half 
ounce  of  chloral  hydrate  and  two  ounces  of  sub-nitrate  of  bismuth  in  one 
quart  of  black  coffee  every  six  or  eight  hours. 

CONGESTION  OF  THE  LIVER— JAUNDICE  OR  YELLOWS.— 

CAUSES. — Bile  stones  forming  in  the  duct  of  the  liver,  thereby  obstruct- 
ing the  free  flow  of  bile,  is  what  generally  brings  on  a congested  or  inflamed 
condition  of  the  liver. 

SYMPTOMS. — By  pressing  the  hand  on  the  right  side  along  the  lower 
part  of  the  short  ribs  the  animal  will  evince  pain ; there  is  always  loss  of  appe- 
tite and  thirst ; the  urine  is  dark  colored ; the  animal  lies  down  quite  a portion 
of  the  time ; seldom  moves  about  without  being  forced  and  walks  with  a 
staggering  gait.  In  cows  the  secretion  of  milk  is  light  and  it  very  often  has  a 
bitter  taste.  The  horns  and  ears  are  generally  cold  and  in  some  cases  there 
is  coughing. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all,  the  bowels  should  be  opened  by  giving  from 
one  to  two  pounds  of  epsom  salts  and  after  they  act  freely  give  three  ounces 
of  phosphate  of  soda  in  a quart  of  hot  water  twice  a day,  or  give  one-fourth 
pound  Glauber’s  salts  daily,  or  give  four  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  soda  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  ginger  at  a dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times  a day. 

CIRRHOSIS  OR  HARDENING  OF  LIVER.— (See  “Horse  Depart^ 
ment.”) 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  LIVER— HEPATITIS.— This  is  really 
an  advanced  stage  of  congestion  of  the  liver  but  it  may  be  confined  to  one 
part  of  the  liver  only  as  an  abscess  may  form  in  this  inflamed  part. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  is  no  easy  matter  to  make  a correct  diagnosis;  how- 
evtr,  the  white  of  the  eye  and  the  membrane  lining  the  mouth  are  always 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


131 


yellow.  The  appetite  is  poor  and  the  lower  part  of  the  belly  appears  full 
while  the  upper  part  appears  empty.  The  animal  usually  lies  down  a con- 
siderable part  of  the  time,  showing  weakness,  with  the  head  very  often  turned 
resting  on  the  side. 

TREATMENT. — Give  one-half  pound  of  Glauber’s  salts  in  three  pints  of 
tepid  water  at  a dose  once  or  twice  a day  or  as  often  as  necessary  to  open  the 
bowels.  Apply  mustard  and  water  over  the  liver  twice  a day  and  give  one 
dram  of  quinine  at  a dose  four  times  a day. 

FLUKE  DISEASE — WORM  IN  THE  LIVER. — Cattle  and  sheep  that 
pasture  on  loAv-lying,  swampy,  river-bottom  lands  are  sometimes  troubled 
with  this  ailment  but,  fortunately,  it  seems  to  be  confined  to  certain  localities. 
Usually  cattU  become  infected  during  the  rainy  season. 

CAUSES. — This  parasite  or  fluke  is  doubtless  taken  in  with  the  food 
or  drinking  water  and  finally  lodges  in  the  billiary  duct  of  the  liver.  Here 
it  grows  and  develops  and  is  then  passed  ofif  through  the  bowels  to  perhaps 
infect  other  cattle  at  some  later  day. 

SYMPTOMS. — At  first  the  animal  thrives  unusually  well  but  when  the 
flukes  grow  and  multiply  they  set  up  an  irritation  in  the  liver.  The  liver 
softens  and  is  easily  torn  and  the  animal  becomes  dull  and  swells  under 
the  throat.  His  membranes  grow  yellow,  the  skin  becomes  dry,  the  body 
dropsical  and  weakness  and  death  soon  follow.  When  cut  open  the  para- 
sites are  found  in  the  liver. 

TREATMENT. — All  diseased  or  afifected  animals  should  be  killed  and 
unaffected  cattle  removed  to  high  and  dry  pasture  lots.  There  is  no  danger 
in  turning  horses  on  affected  pastures. 

CHOKING. — This  is  a very  common  occurrence  on  the  farm  or  in  the 
dairy. 

CAUSES. — The  animal  sometimes  chokes  when  eating  vegetables  such 
as  potatoes,  turnips,  beets,  apples,  or  pears  or  when  eating  dry  chaff  or  dry 
oats.  It  usually  happens  to  animals  that  are  ravenous  eaters. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  suddenly  stops  eating,  coughs  some,  breathes 
heavily,  and  slavers  at  the  mouth.  It  pokes  out  the  nose  and  acts  as  though 
swallowing  but  when  water  is  poured  down  or  the  animal  drinks  it  is  soon 
ejected  and  causes  distress.  If  the  choke  is  in  the  neck  region  considerable 
bloating  shows  in  the  left  side. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  obstruction  is  in  the  mouth  or  well  up  in  the 
throat  the  mouth  should  be  held  open  with  a balling  iron ; or,  I have  often 
used  a horse  shoe  or  clevis  or  a piece  of  wood.  If  the  hand  of  the  person 
is  not  too  large  the  foreign  body  that  is  producing  all  the  trouble  can  then 
be  removed  with  the  hand  very  conveniently.  However,  if  the  choke  is  low 
down  a probang,  which  is  made  for  this  purpose,  or  a flexible  buggy  whip, 
or  a piece  of  rubber  hose  corked  Avith  a piece  of  wood  with  the  end  of  course 
made  smooth,  can  be  passed  down  the  gullet  and  the  object  forced  into  the 
stomach.  In  performing  this  operation  an  assistant  or  two  should  take  hold 
of  the  head  and  straighten  out  the  nose  in  a line  with  the  neck,  as  this  makes 
easy  the  work  of  passing  the  probang.  In  some  cases  it  is  necessary  to  open 
the  gullet  and  remove  the  obstruction,  then  stitch  up  the  gullet  wound  and 
feed  the  animal  on  liquid  diet  for  a week  or  ten  days. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CHOKING.— 

1.  Tobacco. — Make  a ball  of  fine-cut  chewing  tobacco  as  large  as  an 
egg,  hold  the  cow’s  head  up  and  put  the  tobacco  back  far  enough  in  the 


132 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 

\ 

mouth  so  that  she  will  have  to  swallow.  This  will  cause  sickness  and  vom- 
iting and  consequent  relaxing  of  the  muscles  so  that  the  apple  or  other  ob- 
struction will  either  be  vomited  up  or  worked  down  into  the  stomach.  This 
remedy  has  saved  many  valuable  cows  and  may  be  depended  upon. 

2.  Rubber  Hose. — Run  a piece  of  rubber  hose  down  the  throat.  Never 
use  a whip  or  broomstick  if  any  other  remedy  is  at  hand  for  fear  of  injuring 
or  killing  the  animal. 

3.  Egg. — Break  an  egg  into  the  animal’s  mouth  and  it  will  relieve  the 
choking. 

4.  Lard  or  Linseed  Oil. — Drench  the  animal  with  some  melted  lard  or 
some  linseed  oil  and  then  work  the  obstruction  loose  with  the  hands. 

5.  Soft  Soap. — Dilute  half  a pint  of  soft  soap  with  some  water  and 
pour  down  the  animal's  throat  if  it  is  choking. 

STRICTURE  OF  THE  CESOPHAGUS.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

DILATION  OF  THE  CESOPHAGUS.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

ASCITES,  ANASARCA  OR  DROPSY.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

LOCO  DISEASE.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 


DISEASES  OF  THE  RESPIRATORY  OR 
BREATHING  ORGANS. 


(Including  Pneumonia,  Pleurisy,  Bronchitis,  Hoose  or  Husk,  Catarrh,  Nasal 
Gleet,  Malignant  Catarrh,  Sore  Throat,  Etc.) 


PNEUMONIA  — INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  LUNGS  — LUNG 
FEVER. — Pneumonia  is  an  inflamed  condition  of  the  lung  tissue. 

CAUSES. — Pneumonia  very  often  follows  bronchitis,  the  inflammation 
extending  to  the  lung  tissue;  or,  it  comes  from  colds  and  exposure  during 
changeable  weather,  especially  when  the  temperature  is  falling.  It  also  re- 
sults from  exhaustion  and  stabling  in  damp,  badly  ventilated  barns.  Veter- 
inarians are  pretty  well  agreed  that  it  is  a germ  ailment  and  very  often 
infectious. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  a cessation  of  rumination  (loss  of  cud), 
staring  coat,  more  or  less  loss  of  appetite,  and  the  animal  usually  has  a chill. 
The  respirations  are  quick,  the  pulse  is  also  quick  and  the  temperature  goes 
up  to  105  or  107  degrees.  By  sounding  the  chest  a rasping  sort  of  sound  is 
heard  which  later  changes  to  a murmur. 

TREATMENT. — In  the  treatment  of  pneumonia  the  animal  should  be 
placed  in  a dry,  comfortable  stall  free  from  drafts,  the  body  kept  warm  and 
plenty  of  fresh  air  admitted.  It  is  also  important  to  supply  the  patient  with 
all  the  cold  water  it  will  drink,  but  of  course  not  large  quantities  at  a time. 
Give  twenty  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  aconite  at  a dose  in  one-half  teacupful 
of  cold  water  every  four  hours  until  the  fever  reduces  and  the  temperature 
lowers  within  a degree  or  two  of  normal.  Or,  give  three  drams  of  nitrate  of 
potassium  at  a dose  every  six  hours  until  the  fever  subsides.  This  can  be 
given  in  drinking  water.  When  the  circulation  is  weak  give  stimulants 
such  as  sweet  spirits  of  nitre,  in  one  and  one-half-ounce  doses,  with  five  ounces 
of  whiskey  every  six  hours,  or  it  can  be  given  every  four  hours  with  good 
results.  If  the  legs  are  cold,  bandage  them  in  cotton.  If  the  body  is  cold 
blankets  should  be  applied.  I have  found  mustard  and  water  applications  to 
give  relief  when  applied  to  the  sides,  also  poultices  of  antiphlogistine,  oil 
meal,  warm  bran  and  even  cold  packs  with  plenty  of  dry  blankets  over 
them  have  seemingly  given  relief.  I have  noticed  good  results  to  follow  the 
steaming  with  either  creosote  or  carbolic  acid  for  a few  minutes  a few  times 
daily.  This  is  done  by  adding  a tablespoonful  of  creosote  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  carbolic  acid  to  one  gallon  of  boiling  water,  keeping  it  warm  and 
directing  the  stream  into  one  or  both  nostrils  for  ten  minutes  at  a time. 
Whenever  signs  of  improvement  are  shown,  discontinue  giving  fever  medi- 
cine or  you  will  do  harm,  but  give  tonics  and  laxatives.  Give  brandy,  milk, 
eggs,  also  some  quinine,  gentian,  ginger  or  any  home  tonic  or  stimulant  and 
remember  that  good  nursing  has  a whole  lot  to  do  with  the  successful  treat- 
ment of  pneumonia. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PNEUMONIA.— 

1.  Salts  and  Mustard  Plasters. — Give  a pound  of  epsom  salts  and  apply 
mustard  plasters  freely. 


133 


134 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


PLEURISY. — Pleurisy  is  an  inflammation  of  the  pleura,  which  is  a 
membrane  that  lines  the  chest  and  is  reflected  over  the  lungs.  When  inflamed 
it  should  be  treated  promptly  for  if  allowed  to  go  on  and  become  chronic 
the  inflammation  usually  terminates  in  water  in  the  chest.  This  condition 
is  called  hydrothorax. 

CAUSES. — The  same  causes  which  bring  on  other  ailments  such  as 
laryngitis,  bronchitis,  inflammation  of  the  lungs,  and  diseases  of  the  respira- 
tory organs  will  cause  pleurisy.  Besides,  broken  ribs  and  chest  punctures 
very  often  bring  it  on. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  some  fever,  the  pulse  beats  are  wiry, 
the  breathing  is  quickened,  the  elbows  are  turned  well  out  and  the  breath- 
ing is  done  mostly  with  the  abdominal  muscles.  In  most  cases  of  pleurisy 
there  is  a well-marked  crease  extending  from  back  of  the  elbow  to  the  flank. 
The  act  of  expelling  air  from  the  lungs  appears  to  be  done  with  much  more 
ease  than  the  act  of  taking  the  air  into  the  chest.  Pressure  applied  to  the 
space  between  the  ribs  causes  pain  and  makes  breathing  more  difficult.  The 
nose  is  dry,  the  ears  hang  down,  there  is  loss  of  appetite  and  it  is  not  unusual 
for  the  animal  to  point  the  nose  around  to  the  side  as  if  suffering  pain.  By 
tapping  the  ribs  over  the  chest  a clear  sound  is  heard  which  is  not  the  case 
in  pneumonia ; besides,  the  breath  is  not  hot  and  there  is  no  rasping  noise 
as  we  hear  in  bronchitis. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  bowels  are  not  costive  it  will  not  be  necessary 
to  give  a laxative  but  be  sure  to  apply  mustard  and  water  to  the  chest  daily. 
Give  25  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  aconite  every  three  hours  in  a teacupful  of 
cold  water.  Also  give  one-half  ounce  of  powdered  saltpeter  twice  a day. 
The  same  treatment  as  for  bronchitis  and  pneumonia  in  horses  is  also  proper 
in  cattle  but  give  almost  twice  as  much  medicine  at  a dose  to  cattle  as  to 
horses.  When  a recovery  does  not  take  place  promptly,  water  may  accumu- 
late in  the  chest  and  if  this  is  the  case  follow  the  treatment  prescribed  for 
hydrothorax. 

BRONCHITIS. — Bronchitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  mucous  membrane 
which  lines  the  bronchial  tubes. 

CAUSES. — Exposure  to  storms,  sudden  change  of  temperature  from  hot 
to  cold  and  neglected  cases  of  catarrh  and  sore  throat  are  causes  of  this 
disease. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  presents  a rather  peculiar  expression, 
breathes  with  a grunt  and  has  a painful  cough,  high  temperature  and  no  appe- 
tite. The  disease  generally  reaches  its  height  in  three  days  and  begins  to 
let  up  in  six  or  eight  days. 

TREATMENT. — Make  the  animal  as  comfortable  as  possible  and  apply 
mustard  and  water  to  the  lower  part  of  the  neck  and  sides.  I have  found  that 
good  results  follow  the  giving  of  injections  of  soap  suds  to  open  the  bowels, 
but  you  must  avoid  purging.  You  will  find  treatment  for  this  ailment  given 
in  the  horse  department  but  give  larger  doses  to  the  cow  than  are  prescribed 
for  the  horse. 

HOOSE— HUSK— FILARIA  BRONCHITIS.— This  is  an  ailment  that 
affects  young  animals  more  than  aged  ones  and  is  brought  on  by  young  calves 
or  lambs  swallowing  parasites  in  egg  form  which,  when  meeting  the  heat 
and  moisture  of  the  body,  soon  grow  and  develop  into  small,  slender,  thread- 
like worms  which  fill  up  the  air  passages  and  if  not  treated  produce  death. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  coughing  up  of  worms  is  very  often  the  first  means 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  RESPIRATORY  ORGANS. 


135 


of  knowing  what  the  ailment  is.  The  coat  becomes  dry,  a suffocating  sort 
of  breathing  soon  sets  in  and  a husky  cough  follows. 

TREATMENT. — Feed  plenty  of  grain,  vegetables  and  grass.  Give  one 
ounce  of  turpentine  in  twelve  ounces  of  raw  linseed  oil  at  a dose  twice  a 
day  for  a few  days,  then  once  daily  for  a few  days  if  you  believe  it  is  neces- 
sary to  continue  the  treatment.  Place  all  the  infected  animals  in  a closed 
building  and  then  put  small  quantities  of  sulphur  on  a hot  shovel.  This  will 
make  fumes  which  will  kill  the  worms  by  being  breathed  but,  for  fear  of  suffo- 
cation, the  attendant  should  remain  in  the  building  with  the  cattle. 

CATARRH— COLD  IN  THE  HEAD.— Catarrh  or  cold  in  the  head  is  a 
congestion,  irritation  or  inflammation  of  the  lining  membrane  of  the  nose 
and  passages  of  the  head,  sometimes  extending  to  the  throat  and  eyes. 

CAUSES. — Windy,  dusty  weather,  damp  stables,  exposure  to  storms 
when  the  weather  has  changed  from  hot  to  cold,  or  allowing  cattle  to  stand 
in  a draft  after  severe  exercise  are  causes  of  this  disease. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a slight  rise  of  temperature,  sometimes  a cough, 
generally  some  sneezing,  a watery  discharge  from  the  nose  and  this  dis- 
charge soon  becomes  thicker,  the  eyes  are  somewhat  swollen  and  generally 
inflamed,  the  limbs  are  cold  and  also  the  tips  of  the  horns,  the  pulse  is 
quickened,  the  appetite  is  poor  and  the  bowels  are  usually  constipated.- 

TREATMENT. — Place  the  animal  in  a warm,  clean,  dry  and  comfort- 
able stable  and  give  one-half  to  one  pound  of  epsom  salts  to  open  the  bowels. 
One  dose  may  be  sufficient  but  if  not  repeat  the  dose  in  24  hours.  Also 
give  15-drop  doses  of  tincture  of  aconite  every  three  hours  to  reduce  the  fever 
and  feed  cooling,  laxative  foods.  If  necessary  to  steam  the  head  follow  treat- 
ment for  catarrh  in  horses. 

CHRONIC  CATARRPI — NASAL  GLEET. — This  is  very  often  the  re- 
sult of  neglected  simple  nasal  catarrh  or  cold  in  the  head  and  sometimes  it 
becomes  contagious. 

CAUSES. — It  is  generally  caused  by  neglected  cases  of  nasal  catarrh 
that  terminate  in  nasal  gleet  or  a sort  of  malignant  catarrh  which  is  per- 
haps due  to  small  organisms  similar  to  bacteria. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  nose  is  hot  and  dry;  sometimes  the  animal  chills; 
the  eyes  are  sore,  inflamed  and  generally  closed;  there  is  loss  of  appetite;  the 
urine  is  scanty  and  the  bowels  costive.  There  is  a high  temperature,  great 
thirst,  coughing,  a sloughing  of  the  membranes  of  the  mouth  and  the  breath 
is  generally  fetid. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  always  good  judgment  to  remove  a sick  animal 
that  shows  the  above  symptoms  to  a place  by  itself  for  fear  of  its  infecting 
others.  Give  one  and  one-fourth  or  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  epsom  salts 
to  open  the  bowels.  Also  give  aconite  or  acetanilide  to  reduce  the  fever. 
Steam  with  creosote  and  hot  water  and  give  any  good  home  tonic.  Remem- 
ber these  cases  take  time  to  recover. 

MALIGNANT  CATARRPI. — This  is  a condition  of  the  upper  air  pas- 
sages attended  with  offensive  discharges  from  the  nose  and  sometimes  with 
sloughing.  The  disease  is  generally  contagious. 

CAUSES. — It  is  no  doubt  caused  by  some  sort  of  minute  organisms, 
but  just  what  they  are  no  one  appears  to  know. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  is  usually  ushered  in  with  a chill  followed  by  fever. 
The  muzzle  is  dry,  the  animal  is  dull  and  dumpish,  the  eyes  are  almost 
closed  and  somewhat  swollen,  the  saliva  drools  from  the  mouth  and  the  eyes 


136 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


and  nose  discharge  freely.  The  pulse  is  quick  and  weak,  the  cough  increases, 
the  bowels  are  generally  costive  or  else  too  loose  and  the  animal  has  great 
thirst  but  no  appetite  for  food.  The  breath  becomes  fetid,  the  membranes 
highly  inflamed  and  the  passages  of  the  head  become  stopped  up.  In  many 
cases  during  the  last  stage  there  is  quite  extensive  sloughing,  great  weak- 
ness and  also  a considerable  fall  of  temperature.  The  eyeballs  very  often 
burst  and  death  may  result  in  ten  days. 

TREATMENT. — The  animal  should  be  kept  away  from  all  others  and 
if  it  is  summer  time  should  be  put  in  a cool  place  and  if  in  winter  kept  warm. 
Give  a pound  or  more  of  epsom  salts  in  a quart  or  two  of  water  to  move  the 
bowels  and  if  very  feverish  give  one  dram  of  acetanilide  and  one  ounce  of 
alcohol  in  a pint  of  water  at  a dose  four  times  a day ; or,  give  thirty  drops  of 
fluid  extract  of  aconite  at  a dose  three  or  four  times  a day  until  the  fever 
subsides.  Also  give  one-half  ounce  of  nitrate  of  potash  at  a dose  in  feed  or 
water  twice  daily.  Drop  one  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  or  creosote  into  two 
quarts  of  water  and  keep  the  mixture  hot  enough  to  generate  steam,  which 
is  to  be  directed  into  the  nostrils  three  times  a day  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
at  a time.  If  you  can  arrange  to  direct  the  steam  through  a tube  into  one 
nostril  at  a time  it  will  be  all  the  better.  As  soon  as  the  animal  begins  to 
recover  give  a good  condition  powder  or  tonic. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  MALIGNANT  CATARRHAL 

FEVER.— 

1.  Steaming. — Give  injections  to  move  the  bowels  and  every  four  hours 
give  two  ounces  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  in  a pint  of  water.  The  cow  should 
be  made  to  inhale  steam  arising  from  a bucket  of  hot  water  to  which  has 
been  added  a tablespoonful  or  two  of  carbolic  acid. 

SORE  THROAT — LARYNGITIS. — Laryngitis,  or  sore  throat,  is  an  in- 
flammation of  the  larynx. 

Cx\USES. — It  is  caused  by  coming  out  of  a warm  stable  and  standing  in 
a cold  draft  or  by  exposure  to  cold  storms  of  rain  or  snow. 

SYMPTOMS. — Inability  to  eat  or  drink  easily,  breathing  quicker,  pulse 
more  rapid  with  some  fever,  some  drooling  from  the  mouth,  more  or  less 
dullness  and  a cough  are  symptoms  of  sore  throat. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  equal  ^rts  of  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and 
sweet  oil  to  the  throat  twice  daily  or  apply  antiphlogistine.  Steam  the  head 
or  dissolve  one-fourth  ounce  of  chlorate  of  potash  in  a quart  of  water  and 
wash  the  throat  three  times  a day. 

MALIGNANT  SORE  THROAT. — Malignant  sore  throat  in  animals  is 
very  much  like  quinsy  in  man  and  it  very  often  proves  fatal. 

CAUSES. — It  is  no  doubt  the  result  of  some  sort  of  infection;  however, 
it  is  not  well  understood. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  early  symptoms  are  very  much  like  those  of  colds 
and  distemper  or  simple  sore  throat.  The  mucous  membranes  inflame,  the 
throat  swells  a great  deal,  the  month  is  kept  open,  the  tongue  is  covered 
with  purple-like  spots  and  the  animal  soon  shows  great  weakness. 

TREATMENT. — Steam  the  head  with  either  creosote  or  carbolic  acid 
and  apply  equal  parts  of  turpentine,  tincture  of  cantharides,  aqua  ammonia 
and  raw  linseed  oil  to  the  throat  twice  a day  for  two  days ; also  poultice  the 
throat.  Put  two  drams  of  chlorate  of  potash  and  a teaspoonful  of  chloride 
of  iron  into  four  ounces  of  water  and  wash  the  throat  every  three  hours. 


CATTLE—DISEASES  OF  RESPIRATORY  ORGANS. 


137 


If  the  case  proves  fatal  either  burn  or  bury  the  carcass  deep  to  prevent  in- 
fection of  others. 

TRACHEOTOMY  (Inserting  Tube  in  Windpipe).— (See  “Horse  De- 
partment.”) 

PNEUMOTHORAX— AIR  OR  GAS  IN  THE  CHEST.— (See  “ Horse 
Department.”) 

HYDROTHORAX— WATER  IN  CHEST— DROPSY  OF  LUNGS,— 

(See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

NASAL  POLYPUS.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 


DISEASES  OF  THE  URINARY  ORGANS. 

(Including  Diseases  of  the  Kidneys  and  Bladder.) 


INFLAMMATIpN  OF  THE  KIDNEYS— NEPHRITIS.— This  ailment 
is  not  very  common  in  the  ox  and  is  generally  brought  on  by  injury  of  some 
kind,  giving  too  strong  diuretic  medicine  or  eating  acrid  plants  which  act 
on  the  kidneys. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms 'are : colicky  pains,  uneasiness,  passing 
small  quantities  of  highly-colored  urine,  straddling,  loss  of  appetite,  arched 
back,  sweating,  quick  breathing  and  quick  pulse.  The  animal  is  weak  and 
becomes  more  stupid. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a dose  of  epsom  salts,  not  less  than  one  pound; 
also  a pint  or  two  of  raw  linseed  oil.  Apply  hot  blankets  to  loins  or  mustard 
and  water  or  hot  poultices.  Give  15  drops  of  tincture  of  aconite  and  a tea- 
spoonful of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna  at  a dose  three  or  four  times  a day. 

KIDNEY  AILMENTS.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BLADDER— CYSTITIS.— The  mucous 
membrane  of  the  bladder  frequently  inflames;  however,  the  entire  organ  sel- 
dom does. 

CAUSES. — Any  disturbance  of  the  digestive  organs  and  eating  infected 
food  or  food  which  makes  the  urine  acid  instead  of  alkaline,  are  likely  to 
irritate  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  bladder.  It  also  follows  calculi,  or 
giving  strong  drugs  that  act  harshly  on  the  urinary  organs  and  it  also 
follows  a retention  or  holding  of  the  urine  too  long. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite,  a rise  of  temperature,  uneasi- 
ness, quick  pulse  and  the  urine  is  highly  colored.  Passing  the  hand  into 
the  rectum  and  pressing  against  the  bladder  produces  pain.  When  the  attack 
is  severe  and  proper  treatment  is  not  given  the  animal  soon  dies  from 
weakness. 

TREATMENT. — Give  one  pound  of  epsom  salts,  apply  hot  blankets  to 
the  loins  and  flush  out  the  bladder  of  cows  with  warm  water.  Give  small  doses 
of  lithia  in  water  or  linseed  tea. 

RED  WATER— H.®MATURIA. — This  is  a condition  where  either 
blood  or  the  coloring  matter  of  the  blood  is  passing  off  by  way  of  the  kidneys. 

CAUSES. — It  is  very  often  the  result  of  an  injury,  calculi  in  the  kid- 
neys or  bladder,  eating  poor  food  or  poisonous  plants,  a specific  disease  such 
as  Texas  fever;  or, it  may  result  from  giving  irritating  drugs. 

TREATMENT. — If  caused  by  poor  food,  make  a change.  Study  the 
cause  and  treat  accordingly.  If  caused  by  calculi,  crush  or  remove  them. 
Give  tonics  and  such  food  as  is  recommended  for  indigestion.  Iron,  quinine, 
gentian,  quassia  or  cod  liver  oil  and  good  care  will  help  all  cases  of  red  water 
in  cattle. 

DIABETES-INSIPIDUS  OR  PROFUSE  URINATION.— The  passing 
of  enormous  quantities  of  urine  is  generally  called  diabetes  if  the  urine  is  of 
a clear,  water-like  color. 

CAUSES. — The  causes  are:  eating  acrid  diuretic  plants;  giving  too  much 

138 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  URINARY  ORGANS. 


139 


sugar-producing  food  or  swill ; feeding  musty,  badly-cured  fodder ; or  eating 
frozen  food. 

TREATMENT. — Change  the  food  supply.  Give  one  dram  of  iodide  of 
potassium  at  a dose  in  either  food  or  water  three  times  a day ; also  give 
one-ounce  doses  of  fluid  extract  of  ergot  twice  a day,  but  be  sure  it  is  fresh 
medicine.  If  the  appetite  is  poor  give  one  dram  of  ground  nux  vomica,  one- 
half  ounce  of  gentian  and  one  ounce  of  ginger  at  a dose  two  or  three  times 
a day. 

UR.®MIA. — This  is  where  the  urine  is  reabsorbed  into  the  system, 
causing  an  excess  of  urea  and  of  course  blood  poisoning. 

SYMPTOMS. — Smell  the  skin  and  it  has  the  odor  of  urine;  besides,  the 
animal  has  a dull,  sick  appearance. 

TREATMENT. — Draw  off  the  urine  if  the  animal  fails  to  pass  it,  give 
lithia  in  one-ounce  doses,  or  give  one  ounce  of  fluid  extract  or  powdered 
buchu  leaves  at  a dose  four  times  a day  and  a mild  dose  of  epsom  salts.  If 
the  animal  is  weak  give  two  or  three-ounce  doses  of  liquor  ammonia  acetatis 
and  be  sure  that  this  medicine  is  made  fresh  before  you  give  it  or  it  will 
do  no  good.  Feed  easily-dieested  food  and  keep  the  bowels  open. 

GRAVEL— CALCULI— STONE  IN  THE  BLADDER.— It  is  not  un- 
usual to  find  calculi  in  the  bladder  or  pelvis  of  the  kidney  in  animals  that 
pasture  on  limestone  land  or  drink  water  that  comes  through  limestone  rock. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  difficulty  in  passing  the  urine  and  the  water 
is  usually  tinged  with  blood.  Certain  kinds  of  food  appear  to  favor  the  forma- 
tion of  calculi  in  the  bladder. 

TREATMENT. — When  an  operation  is  necessary  you  had  better  call 
a veterinarian,  unless  the  stone  can  be  crushed  by  hand.  By  passing  the 
hand  into  the  rectum  the  stone  can  usually  be  found.  In  some  cases  it  is 
necessarv  to  cut  them  out. 

TAPPING  THE  BLADDER  OF  THE  OX  OR  BULL.— In  cases  where 
there  is  a stopping  of  the  water  it  can  be  drawn  off  by  cutting  into  the  urethra 
just  below  the  anus  where  the  urethra  turns  over  the  angle  of  the  pelvis.  Be 
sure  to  make  no  larger  opening  than  is  absolutely  necessary  to  admit  the 
catheter.  The  wound  should  be  well  looked  after  and  healed  quickly.  Apply 
equal  parts  of  iodoform,  boric  acid  and  powdered  alum  twice  a day. 

INCONTINENCE  OF  URINE— ENURESIS.— This  ailment  is  usu- 
ally the  result  of  paralysis  of  the  muscle  at  the  neck  of  the  bladder  and  on 
account  of  its  relaxed  condition  the  urine  leaks  out  of  the  bladder  and  drib- 
bles away  from  the  animal. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  animal  is  in  a weakened  condition  give  it  plenty 
of  nourishing  food  and  give  one  dram  of  fluid  extract  of  nux  vomica  at  a 
dose  in  feed  three  times  a day.  Also  give  one  ounce  of  lithia  at  a dose  in 
feed  three  times  a day,  and  apply  mustard  plasters  to  the  back  every  two 
days.  I have  known  cold  applications  to  the  back  to  produce  good  results 
in  some  cases ; however,  they  should  not  be  kept  on  too  long. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 

(Including  Pregnancy,  Calving  and  All  Attending  Difficulties,  Diseases  of 
the  Vagina  and  Womb,  Milk  Fever,  Garget,  Diseases  of  the  New-born 
Calf,  Spaying,  Barrenness  of  Cows  and  Bulls,  Castration,  Etc.) 


THE  GENITAL. ORGANS  OF  THE  COW.— 

THE  OVARIES. — The  ovaries  of  the  cow  are  generally  found  to  be 
smaller  than  in  the  mare  but  are  much  the  same  in  all  other  respects. 

THE  WOMB,  VAGINA,  ETC. — The  womb  of  the  cow  differs  from  the 
mare’s  not  so  much  in  shape  as  in  that  the  inner  surface  is  covered  with 
cotyledons  ” or  button-like  bodies  which  are  small  when  the  cow  is  not 
pregnant  but  are  quite  large  near  calving  time.  The  afterbirth  or  placenta 
is  attached  to  these  buttons.  The  vagina  of  the  cow  is  shorter  than  in  the 
mare.  The  vulva  is  almost  the  same,  but  the  clitoris  is  generally  smaller 
in  the  cow  than  in  the  mare. 

THE  UDDER,  MILK  BAG  OR  MAMMARY  GLAND.— This  is  di- 
vided into  halves  and  each  half  is  again  divided.  All  four  quarters  secrete 
milk  and  drop  it  into  a pouch  which  is  situated  just  above  the  teats.  Dairy- 
men should  study  the  udder  for  here  is  where  they  have  lots  of  trouble ; there- 
fore, they  cannot  know  too  much  about  the  udder. 

GESTATION  IN  COWS. — It  can  be  safely  stated  that  a cow,  if  in  a 
normal  condition,  will  carry  the  calf  between  two  hundred  and  eighty  and 
two  hundred  and  ninety  days  or  between  nine  and  nine  and  one-half  months. 
There  are  cases  on  record  where  cows  have  carried  their  calves  eleven  months 
and  it  is  said  that  the  produce  is  usually  male  when  the  cow  carries  her  calf 
bevond  nine  and  one-half  months. 

PREGNANCY  AND  HOW  TO  TELL  IT.— When  the  cow  is  in  good 
health  she  comes  in  heat  every  third  week  when  not  pregnant  but  of  course 
there  are  exceptional  cases.  When  pregnant  she  generally  ceases  to  come  in 
heat,  becomes  quieter,  feeds  better  and  is  generally  more  thrifty  and  after 
a few  weeks  she  begins  to  enlarge  in  the  right  flank  and  after  the  fifth  or 
sixth  month  the  calf  will  be  seen  to  kick  after  the  cow  has  taken  a drink  of 
cold  water;  or,  by  pressing  the  hand  against  the  right  flank  a solid  object 
can  be  felt  and  besides,  if  the  hand  is  put  into  the  rectum  the  calf  may  be 
felt.  Young  cows  spring  some  four  months  before  calving,  the  udder  grad- 
ually increasing  in  size  until  parturition,  but  older  cows  do  not  make  much 
bag  until  five  or  six  weeks,  or  even  less,  before  calving. 

SYMPTOMS  JUST  PREVIOUS  TO  PARTURITION  OR  CALVING. 
- — The  vulva  usually  swells  within  a few  days  of  calving  and  the  udder  fills 
gradually  for  a few  weeks,  but  usually  fills  full  and  becomes  hard  within  twot* 
or  three  days  of  calving  and  perhaps  the  most  noticeable  symptom  is  a 
falling  away  on  each  side  of  the  hips  close  to  the  tail.  When  these  symptoms 
appear  the  cow  should  be  put  into  a comfortable  place  and  away  from  other 
cattle  or  animals  that  may  excite  her. 

DIFFICULT  CALVING— DIFFICULT  FOALING— MALPRESEN- 
TATION. — If  a mare  or  cow  be  in  a healthy  condition  and  strong  and 

140 


TEXAS  FEVER. 


INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  WOMB. 
(Metritis.) 


MILK  FEVER  OR  PARTURIENT 
APOPLEXY. 


PARTURIENT  PERITONITIS. 


INPACTION  OF  THE  MANYPLIES. 


lump-jaw. 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


141 


vigorous  she  will  seldom  experience  any  trouble  in  foaling  or  calving.  Some- 
times labor  pains  come  on  before  the  mouth  of  the  womb  has  relaxed  and  in 
such  cases  the  hand  should  be  passed,  using  the  thumb  and  finger  at  first 
and  later  the  hand,  to  dilate  the  opening  into  the  womb.  Before  passing  the 
hand  the  nails  should  be  cut  short  and  made  smooth  and  the  hand  oiled 
with  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  ten  parts  vaseline  or  sweet  oil.  It  also  as- 
sists matters  to  smear  the  neck  of  the  womb  with  equal  parts  of  fluid  ex- 
tract of  belladonna  and  vaseline  to  assist  in  relaxing  the  parts.  The  normal 
position  for  a foal  or  calf  to  come  is  .the  forefeet  first  with  the  nose  between 
the  knees  and  when  the  mother  is  unable  to  expel  the  foetus  assistance  can 
be  given  her  but  it  should  be  done  gently  for  if  not  the  colt  or  calf  may  be 
killed;  besides,  she  should  be  assisted  most  when  making  an  effort  herself. 
Never  pull  on  a colt  or  calf  unless  you  are  sure  that  you  are  pulling  on  both 
forefeet  or  both  hind  ones  for  unless  you  are  a delivery  cannot  be  accom- 
plished. In  some  cases  the  colt  or  calf  will  be  found  dropsical,  making  it 
impossible  for  the  foetus  to  pass.  In  these  cases  push  the  foetus  back  and 
tap  its  belly  with  a knife,  then  assist  in  the  delivery.  In  other  cases  water 
is  found  in  the  head  of  the  foetus  and  these  cases  also  require  tapping.  The 
swelling  is  usually  in  the  top  of  the  head.  The  operation  is  best  done  with 
a trocar  or  small  knife.  A foal  or  calf  may  come  with  the  forefeet  and 
head  turned  back,  or  a forefoot  and  a hind  one  may  come.  Sometimes  the 
head  will  appear  and  the  forefeet  be  turned  back  and  at  other  times  all  four 
feet  appear  to  come  together  with  the  head  turned  back.  Now,  in  order  to 
deliver  the  colt  or  calf  in  these  cases,  the  hind  quarters  of  the  animal  should 
be  raised  eight  or  ten  inches  higher  than  the  fore  quarters  and  the  foetus 
should  be  pushed  back  and  placed  in  position  and  then  either  taken  away  nor- 
mally or  with  the  hind  feet  first.  It  is  always  good  practice  to  tie  soft 
pieces  of  rope  around  the  head  and  feet  before  the  foetus  is  pushed  back 
into  the  uterus,  but  of  course  mark  your  ropes  to  know  whether  it  is  the 
head,  a forefoot  or  a hind  one.  Keep  in  mind  that  there  may  be  twins  as 
these  cases  do  sometimes  occur  in  the  mare  and  more  frequently  in  the  cow 
and  when  they  do  they  are  rather  puzzling;  consequently,  a thorough  ex- 
amination should  be  made  and  good  judgment  used.  After  taking  away 
the  first  one  the  second  one  usually  comes  away  easily.  Sometimes  you  will 
meet  with  deformities  which  may  also  puzzle  you  but  whatever  is  done  should 
be  done  without  force,  for  the  inner  walls  of  the  womb  and  vagina  are  easily 
lacerated  or  torn ; besides,  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  infect  the  mother.  There- 
fore, be  clean  and  use  antiseptics  and  disinfectants  freely.  It  is  well  to 
keep  in  mind  that  if  the  mare  does  not  deliver  foal  within  an  hour  or  less 
after  the  labor  commences  there  is  something  wrong;  therefore,  the  case 
should  be  looked  into  right  away  for  if  looked  after  early  she  can  be  assisted 
much  more  easily  and  understandingly  than  if  you  delay.  Besides,  by  being 
prompt  vou  can  very  often  save  the  mare  or  cow  and  the  produce. 

CLEANING— RETENTION  OF  PLACENTA  OR  AFTERBIRTH.— 
Whenever  the  afterbirth  does  not  come  away  in  twelve  or  twenty-four 
hours  it  should  be  taken  away  by  hand. 

CAUSES. — Failure  to  clean  properly  is  very  often  the  result  of  prema- 
ture parturition;  poverty  of  the  animal;  too  hurried  delivery;  adhesions 
which  are  the  result  of  pre-existing  inflammation  in  the  womb ; or,  it  may 
be  the  result  of  a failure  to  establish  sufficient  contraction  of  the  uterus. 
If  not  removed  it  rots  away,  causing  irritation,  a putrid  condition,  a nasty 


U2 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


vaginal  discharge,  a rapid  loss  of  condition  and  shrinkage  in  milk;  besides, 
there  ma}"  be  absorption  of  putrid  matter  and  a poisoning  of  the  animal. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a mild  dose  of  epsom  salts  tc  open  the  bowels. 
Tying  a light  weight  to  the  afterbirth  assists  in  stimulating  the  womb  to 
contraction  and  expulsion  of  the  afterbirth.  The  most  satisfactory  method 
is  to  remove  it  by  hand  in  not  less  than  twenty-four  hours  after  parturition, 
before  the  mouth  of  womb  has  closed.  The  hand  should  be  well  oiled  with 
one  part  carbolic  acid  and  ten  parts  vaseline  and  be  sure  to  cut  the  finger 
nails,  making  them  smooth  to  prevent  wounding  the  uterus  or  vagina.  The 
protruding  membranes  should  be  gently  pulled  upon  with  the  left  hand 
while  the  right  hand  should  be  introduced  into  the  womb  and  the  connecting 
cot}dedons  or  buttons  crushed  off  from  their  connections  with  the  womb. 
This  process  may  be  slow  for  there  are  many  of  these  buttons  but  it  will  pay 
to  take  time  enough  to  do  the  work  properly.  In  operating,  care  should  be 
taken  not  to  injure  the  inner  wall  of  the  uterus  and  the  work  should  be  done 
thoroughly  so  as  to  prevent  sloughing  and  a sub-acute  inflammation  of  the 
uterus.  To  prevent  a retention  of  the  afterbirth  try  to  guard  against  abor- 
tion and  avoid  having  poverty  stricken  animals.  All  thin  cows  should  be 
well  fed  for  two  or  three  weeks  before  calving  and  if  this  is  done  they  will 
clean  much  better  than  if  they  are  in  a debilitated  condition  when  they  are 
calving. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  RETENTION  OF  AFTER- 
BIRTH.— 

1.  Saltpeter  or  Epsom  Salts. — If  the  cow  does  not  clean  properly  give  a 
tablespoonful  of  saltpeter  three  times  a day;  or,  give  % pound  epsom  salts 
twice  a dav  until  the  bowels  move  freely  and  afterbirth  comes  away. 

CLOSING  OF  THE  NECK  OF  THE  WOMB  AT  CALVING.— It  is 
not  unusual  when  labor  pains  come  on  to  find  the  neck  of  the  womb  not  yet 
relaxed,  making  it  impossible  for  the  delivery  of  the  calf. 

SYMPTOMS. — Lack  of  results  from  labor  pains  should  lead  to  an  exam- 
ination by  hand  which  would  reveal  the  fact  that  the  neck  of  the  womb  is 
closed. 

TREATMENT. — Saturate  a soft  piece  of  sponge  or  cloth  with  extract 
of  belladonna,  tie  a string  to  it,  push  it  into  the  neck  of  the  womb  and  leave 
it  there  for  a few  hours ; but  if  the  neck  of  the  uterus  can  be  dilated  with  the 
hand  without  using  too  much  force,  do  so  and  the  cow  will  perhaps  have 
her  calf  with  little  if  any  assistance.  When  the  belladonna  is  applied  the 
animal  should  be  given  ounce  doses  of  chloral  hydrate  in  a pint  or  two  of 
water  every  three  hours;  or,  give  one-half  ounce  of  fluid  extract  of  opium  to 
quiet  her  pains  until  the  belladonna  relaxes  and  opens  the  neck  of  the  womb. 

FLOODING-UTERINE  HEMORRHAGE. — Hemorrhage  very  often 
occurs  when  a calf  has  been  removed  or  when  the  cow  is  extremely  weak.  It 
may  be  the  result  of  protracted  labor  or  bungling  assistance  during  parturi- 
tion, or  it  mav  follow  a removal  of  the  afterbirth. 

TREATMENT. — Pour  cold  water  over  the  loins  or  inject  some  cold  water 
into  the  womb,  using  a rubber  tube  and  funnel ; or,  dissolve  two  ounces  of 
alum,  in  a quart  of  water  and  pour  this  solution  in  and,  if  this  does  not  check 
the  hemorrhage,  fill  the  entire  uterus  with  an  alum  solution  of  this  same 
strength,  closing  the  vulva  or  elevating  the  hind  quarters  so  that  the  fluid 
will  remain  in  the  womb.  Give  one  ounce  of  fluid  extract  of  ergot  at  a dose 
every  thirty  or  forty  minutes  until  the  hemorrhage  ceases.  After  the  bleeding 
has  stopped  the  uterus  should  be  washed  out  with  clean  water,  using  one  part 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


143 


carbolic  acid  to  a hundred  parts  water.  The  animal  should  be  kept  perfectly 
quiet  for  twenty-four  hours. 

EVERSION  OF  THE  VAGINA.— (See  ‘‘  Horse  Department.”) 
EVERSION  OF  THE  WOMB— WOMB  OR  CALF-BED  TURNED 
INSIDE  OUT. — This  is  a turning  inside-out  of  the  womb,  brought  on  very 
often  by  the  cow’s  lying  with  her  hind  parts  too  low  and  also  by  a.  con- 
tinuation of  the  after-pains  or  a careless  removal  of  the  afterbirth  and  it 
sometimes  occurs  in  weak  cows  at  time  of  calving,  from  coughing  or  from 
over-feeding  with  bulky  food.  These  all  have  a tendency  to  crowd  out  the 
uterus. 

. SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a protrusion  of  the  uterus  through  the  vagina 
to  a greater  or  less  extent. 

TREATMENT. — By  promptly  calling  a competent  veterinarian  the  cow’s 
life  is  often  saved,  unless  the  farmer  or  dairyman  will  use  cleanliness  and 
good  judgment  in  replacing  the  womb  without  injury.  First  of  all,  place  the 
cow  with  the  forequarters  about  a foot  lower  than  the  hind  ones  and  spread 
a clean  sheet  or  towel  that  has  been  dipped  in  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  fifty 
parts  water  or  one  part  corrosive  sublimate  and  one  thousand  parts  tepid 
water.  Clean  the  everted  portion  and  hind  parts  of  the  cow  b)^  pouring  on 
either  of  these  preparations.  The  uterus  should  be  supported  with  this  sheet 
or  towel,  an  assistant  holding  each  end  while  the  veterinarian  or  dairyman 
gently  returns  the  parts  to  their  normal  place.  Apply  a surcingle  snugly 
around  the  body  at  the  flank,  put  two  or  three  stitches  in  upper  portion  of 
vulva  and  keep  her  in  the  position  I have  suggested  and  also  keep  her  from 
straining  by  giving  her  one-ounce  doses  of  chloral  hydrate  and  two-dram  doses 
of  fluid  extract  belladonna,  or  four-dram  doses  of  fluid  extract  of  opium,  every 
five  or  six  hours  or  as  often  as  necessary  to  keep  her  quiet.  Dissolve  two 
ounces  of  sugar  of  lead  and  one  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  in  a gallon  of  water 
and  wash  out  the  vagina  through  a rubber  hose  with  a funnel  at  the  end, 
twice  a day.  Give  her  good  care  and  plenty  of  nourishing  food  that  is  not 
too  bulky.  Now  just  a word  of  caution  : Be  very  careful  not  to  puncture  a hole 
in  the  uterus  or  lacerate  it.  Be  sure  to  have  no  sharp  finger  nails  or  dirty 
hands  when  you  return  the  parts.  Be  sure  that  she  has  recovered  before 
you  allow  her  to  run  around  or  lie  down  with  the  hind  parts  too  low. 

C.®SAREAN  OPERATION. — This  is  an  operation  whereby  the  calf 
is  taken  through  the  side  of  the  cow.  It  is  sometimes  desirable  to  perform  this 
operation  in  case  of  accident  to  the  cow  or  mare,  especially  if  they  are'  thor- 
oughbreds, for  the  purpose  of  saving  their  produce ; besides,  in  difficult  and 
impossible  cases  of  delivery  as  a last  resort  this  operation  is  performed.  As 
this  work  is  difficult  it  should  never  be  attempted  by  any  other  person  than  a 
capable  veterinary  surgeon  or  physician.  If  the  cow  is  exhausted  and  in  a 
high  state  of  inflam.mation  her  life  cannot  be  saved  but  the  calf  can.  In 
case  the  mother  has  just  died,  any  person  may  operate  and  it  is  astonishing 
to  know  how  successful  dairymen  are  but  I have  never  known  inexperienced 
persons  to  operate  and  save  both  cow  and  calf. 

RUPTURE  OF  THE  WOMB. — A rupture  of  the  womb  seldom  occurs 
unless  a cow  is  roughly  handled  by  hands  or  with  instruments.  However,  it 
does  occasionally  occur  when  it  is  hard  to  tell  the  exact  cause.  The  feet  are 
sometimes  pulled  in  such  a way,  when  assisting  in  the  delivery  of  the  calf,  as 
to  rupture  the  uterus.  When  it  occurs  the  bowels  may  protrude  through  the 
opening,  causing  hemorrhage. 


144 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


TREATMENT. — If  an  eversion  takes  place,  close  the  womb  by  stitching 
the  tear  closely  with  catgut,  then  return  it  to  place,  using  solutions  of  one 
part  carbolic  acid  to  two  hundred  parts  water  and  if  the  animal  shows  much 
pain  give  one-ounce  doses  of  chloral  hydrate  or  one  ounce  of  fluid  extract  of 
opium  at  a dose,  every  three  or  four  hours,  until  pain  ceases. 

DROPSY  OF  THE  WOMB  BEFORE  CALVING.— This  is  caused  by 
a derangement  of  the  foetal  membranes  and  there  must  be  an  excessive 
amount  of  fluid  secreted  around  the  foetus. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  belly  of  the  cow  grows  to  be  unusually  large  but  the 
fluid  usually  comes  away  at  the  proper  time  without  doing  any  harm. 

TREATMENT. — Feed  the  cow  well  and  see  that  she  has  daily  exercise; 
if  she  is  weak,  give  tonics. 

DROPSY  OR  SWELLING  OF  THE  BELLY  BEFORE  PARTURI- 
TION.— (See  Horse  Department.”) 

PARALYSIS  OF  THE  HIND  QUARTERS  BEFORE  CALVING.— 

Thin,  weak,  emaciated  cows  that  are  poorly  fed  and  not  sheltered  sometimes 
lose  the  proper  use  of  their  hinU  quarters  and  are  unable  to  get  up  without 
assistance. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  mustard  and  water  to  the  back  every  day  or  two 
and  give  a tablespoonful  or  two  of  the  following  compound  powder  at  a dose 
in  feed  three  times  a day.  The  powder  is  made  by  mixing  ground  gentian 
root,  ground  ginger,  powdered  saltpeter,  baking  soda,  ground  nux  vomica  and 
powdered  charcoal.  Also  increase  the  animal’s  food  supply,  not  forgetting  to 
feed  her  some  vegetables. 

PARALYSIS  AFTER  CALVING. — This  consists  in  either  a partial  or 
complete  loss  of  power  of  the  hind  quarters  after  calving.  It  is  caused  by 
weakness  or  pressure  from  an  unusually  large  calf. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  mustard  and  water  to  the  back ; blanket  warm ; 
feed  on  nourishing,  laxative  food  and  milk  the  cow  four  times  a day.  Also 
give  two-dram  doses  of  fluid  extract  of  nux  vomica  and  three  drams  of  citrate 
of  potash  at  a dose  three  times  a day.  Apply  equal  parts  turpentine,  aqtm 
ammonia  and  sweet  oil  to  the  back  daily  if  the  mustard  and  water  does  not 
produce  the  desired  results. 

MILK  FEVER— PARTURIENT  APOPLEXY.— In  this  disease  there 
is  a congested  condition  of  the  brain  and  spinal  cord  and  in  every  case  it 
follows  the  act  of  parturition  and  as  a rule  seldom  attacks  a cow  until  after 
she  has  had  two  or  more  calves  and  it  seems  to  be  a disease  which  affects 
cows  more  than  any  other  animals.  It  seldom  attacks  light  milkers  but  usu- 
ally selects  the  very  best  milk  producers.  Until  within  a few  years  it  has  been 
considered  a fatal  disease.  High  feeding,  under-exercising  and  a plethoric 
condition  leading  up  to  apoplexy  are  doubtless  predisposing  causes.  It  in- 
variably follows  an  easy  parturition  and  a rapid  emptying  of  the  udder.  It 
seldom,  if  ever,  follows  abortion  and  rarely  occurs  in  a poorly-fed  and  de- 
bilitated cow.  Following  the  latest  methods  of  treatment  a recovery  gener- 
ally takes  place  rapidly.  The  second  attack  is  more  likely  to  prove  fatal  than 
the  first  attack. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  first  symptoms  noticed  may  be  the  decrease  in 
milk  flow,  some  dullness,  holding  the  head  low,  loss  of  appetite  and  a disin- 
clination to  move.  The  cow  pays  no  attention  to  her  calf  and  walks  with  an 
unsteady  gait.  The  base  of  the  horns  and  the  poll  are  unusually  hot  but  the 
surface  of  the  body  is  colder  than  usual.  The  bowels  become  constipated. 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


145- 


the  urine,  if  passed,  is  scanty  and  the  bowel  discharges  are  covered  with 
mucus.  The  cow  soon  falls  to  the  ground  and  becomes  excited  tr}dng  to  rise. 
She  throws  her  head  about  for  a while  but  soon  assumes  a comatose  state  as 
though  asleep.  The  eyes  are  glassy  and  not  sensitive.  The  head  is  usually 
turned  to  one  side  and  when  pulled  out  straight  she  soon  flops  it  back  to  the 
former  position.  She  is  usually  bloated  and  the  bladder  is  full.  The  disease 
may  set  in  one  hour  after  calving  but  usually  occurs  one,  two  or  three  days 
afterwards,  seldom  occurring  later  than  ten  days.  The  earlier  it  appears,  I 
believe  the  more  fatal  it  is.  However,  some  cases  that  develop  slowly  term- 
inate in  death. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  of  milk  fever  in  cattle  has  changed 
within  the  past  few  years  and  a reliable  remedy  has  at  last  been  found.  The 
“ oxygen  ” or  what  is  commonly  known  as  the  “ air  treatment,”  if  applied  in 
lime,  will  save  ninety-five  per  cent,  of  the  cows  suffering  with  milk  fever. 
The  old  treatment  of  blood-letting,  giving  large  doses  of  cathartic  medicine 
or  whiskey  or  ammonia  and  applying  mustard  and  turpentine  to  the  back 
or  using  other  strong  liniments,  also  giving  chloral  hydrate  and  bromide  of 
potash,  was  thought  to  be  beneficial.  However,  it  is  not  necessary  in  most 
cases  to  give  drugs.  Several  years  ago,  Schmidt  of  Holding,  advised  filling 
the  udder  with  a sterilized  solution  of  potassium  iodide  as  soon  as  possible  and 
this  new  treatment  gave  fairly  good  results.  However,  it  is  not  much  practised 
now.  Sometimes  a salt  solution  is  used  instead,  but  the  air  treatment  gives 
much  the  best  results.  The  iodide  of  potassium  solution  is  made  by  dissolv- 
ing two  drams  of  iodide  of  potassium  in  a pint  of  clean  boiled  water  and  is 
injected  into  the  four  quarters,  four  ounces  into  each  quarter  of  the  udder. 
When  called  to  treat  a case,  or  if  you  do  it  yourself  at  home,  first  place  the 
cow  in  a clean  place,  wash  her  udder  with  soap  and  water,  wipe  it  clean, 
pour  over  a little  alcohol  or  disinfectant,  such  as  one  part  carbolic  acid  to 
fifty  parts  of  water,  or  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  thirty  parts  water. 
If  you  have  oxygen  at  hand,  use  it;  if  not,  fill  the  udder  with  clean  sterilized 
air,  but  not  until  you  have  milked  all  the  milk  out  of  the  udder.  Be  sure  to 
knead  the  udder  in  order  that  it  may  be  inflated  thoroughly.  Tie  a tape 
around  the  neck  of  each  teat  to  prevent  the  air  from  escaping.  If  the  cow  does 
not  recover  in  five  or  six  hours,  repeat  the  air  treatment.  The  teat  tube 
should  be  clean.  If  you  give  the  cow  stimulants  or  any  medicine  it  must  be 
done  through  a rubber  tube  for  if  not  the  medicine  is  likely  to  go  down  the 
windpipe  and  bring  on  bronchial  pneumonia.  Cold  water  applied  to  the  licad 
is  always  helpful.  The  body  should  be  kept  warm  and  the  legs  hand  rubbed. 
Never  empty  a cow’s  udder  too  soon  after  calving.  Don’t  overfeed  a fat 
cow  before  calving.  Keep  the  bowels  open  and  exercise  her.  In  using  the 
air  treatment,  if  you  have  a milking  tube  and  a common  bicycle  pump  and  no 
other  appliances,  use  them,  but  try  to  blow  pure  air  into  the  udder. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  MILK  FEVER.— 

1.  Fresh  Water. — Immediately  after  calving  see  that  the  cow  has  plenty 
of  fresh  water  to  drink.  Do  not  give  too  much  at  a dose  but  a pailful  at  short 
intervals.  This  is  a preventive  of  milk  fever. 

2.  Proper  Feeding. — Feed  but  half  the  usual  quantity  of  grain  for  two 
weeks  before  calving.  For  twenty-four  hours  after  calving  give  nothing  but 
fresh  water,  then  begin  with  half  ration  and  gradually  increase  the  allowance. 
If  adhered  to  this  treatment  will  prevent  milk  fever. 

3.  Soapsuds,  Turpentine  and  Lard. — Move  the  bowels  with  injections 

3—10 


14G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


of  warm  soapsuds  and  to  the  back  and  udder  apply  a mixture  of  one  part  tur- 
pentine and  six  parts  lard  twice  a day  for  two  days. 

4.  Salts,  Lard  and  Ginger. — To  a quart  of  warm  lard  add  a pound  of 
epsom  salts  and  an  ounce  of  pulverized  ginger  and  give  as  a drench. 

PUERPERAL  FEVER. — This  is  a fever  that  often  follows  calving.  It  is 
brought  on  by  exposure  to  cold  and  wet  storms  or  by  want  of  proper  nourish- 
ment before  calving.  Young  heifers,  when  they  first  come  fresh,  seem  to  be 
affected  more  frequently  than  older  cows. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a quick  pulse,  high  temperature,  somewhat  red- 
dened mucous  membranes,  a lessened  milk  flow  and  the  udder  may  be  hot  and 
tender. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a medium-sized  dose  of  epsom  salts  and  give  ten 
drops  of  tincture  of  aconite  every  three  hours  until  the  fever  reduces.  Feed 
vegetables  and  slops  instead  of  grain.  In  many  cases  it  will  not  be  necessary 
to  give  any  medicine. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  VAGINA— VAGINITIS.— This  is  an  in- 
flammation of  the  vagina  and  is  generally  the  result  of  lacerations  or  injuries 
of  some  kind  during  calving. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  more  or  less  swelling  and  an  inflamed 
condition  of  the  lining  membrane  with  some  mucus  discharge. 

TREATMENT. — Mild  cases  require  little  or  no  treatment.  Inject  some 
of  the  following  lotion  into  the  vagina  two  or  three  times  a day — mix  sugar 
of  lead,  one  ounce  and  carbolic  acid,  two  drams,  with  a gallon  of  water.  This 
makes  a useful  application  for  such  cases.  Or,  dissolve  two  ounces  of  pow- 
dered alum  in  a gallon  of  water  or  two  drams  of  permanganate  of  potash  in  a 
gallon  of  water,  or  dissolve  one-half  pound  of  hypo-sulphite  of  soda  in  a 
gallon  of  water.  Any  of  these  makes  a good  application.  However,  in  the 
treatment  of  such  cases  it  is  a good  plan  to  change  the  treatment  every  few 
days.  If  the  bowels  are  costive  feed  laxative  food  and  give  epsom  salts  and 
if  the  kidneys  do  not  act  freely  give  a tablespoonful  of  citrate  of  potash  or 
powdered  saltpeter  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  WOMB— METRITIS.— This  occurs  a few 
days  after  calving.  It  is  caused  by  the  animal’s  getting  wet  or  standing  in  a 
cold  draft  or  it  comes  from  the  wrong  kind  of  assistance  during  calving  when 
infected  hands  and  instruments  have  been  used.  It  also  follows  eversion  of 
the  womb. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  coldness  of  the  extremities  and  surface  of  the 
body  at  first,  followed  by  quick  breathing  and  high  fever.  There  is  also  loss 
of  appetite  and  rumination  ceases.  There  is  some  swelling  of  the  vagina  and 
the  passage  of  blood-like  mucus.  The  bowels  are  usually  constipated  and  the 
animal  stands  with  the  back  arched.  By  passing  the  hand  into  the  rectum, 
the  womb  will  be  found  swollen  and  tender.  The  milk  flow  diminishes  and 
in  some  cases  the  cow  becomes  unconscious  and  shows  symptoms  of  milk 
fever. 

TREATMENT. — Treatment  must  be  both  local  and  internal.  Give  a 
laxative  of  epsom  salts  or  linseed  oil.  Give  ten  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  aconite 
and  a teaspoonful  of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna  at  a dose  in  a pint  of  cold 
water  as  a drench  three  or  four  times  a day.  Apply  wet  cloths  to  the  head 
and  hot  blankets  to  the  loins  and  if  she  is  very  feverish  give  one-dram  doses 
of  acetanilide  four  or  five  times  a day  and  use  the  same  injections  recommended 
for  vaginitis. 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


147 


WHITES — LEUCORRHEA. — This  is  a chronic  inflammation  of  the 
womb  and  vagina. 

CAUSES. — It  very  often  follows  injhiries  sustained  while  the  cow  is  being 
assisted  in  calving.  It  also  follows  a retention  of  the  afterbirth  and  it  very 
often  follows  abortion  and  sometimes  results  from  wearing  a pessary  to  pre- 
vent eversion  of  the  vagina  or  womb. 

SYMPTOMS.- -There  is  a white  discharge  of  more  or  less  oflFensive 
mucus  with  some  swelling  of  the  vagina  and  vulva.  There  is  also  some  shrink- 
age in  milk  and  loss  of  flesh.  The  cow  very  often  comes  in  heat  too  often  and 
remains  in  heat  longer  than  she  otherwise  would.  In  other  cases  she  may 
not  come  in  heat  at  all.  By  introducing  the  hand  into  the  rectum  the  womb 
will  be  found  somewhat  enlarged. 

TREATMENT. — As  a rule  mild  astringents  and  antiseptic  washes  are 
proper  remedies.  First  wash  out  the  vagina  and  uterus  with  \yarm  water, 
using  a rubber  tube  with  a funnel  at  the  end.  If  the  neck  of  the  womb  is 
closed  it  will  be  found  necessary  to  dilate  it  in  order  to  let  the  medicine  come 
in  contact  with  the  inflamed  parts.  Dissolve  one  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  or 
one  ounce  of  sulphate  of  iron,  or  three  drams  of  permanganate  of  potash,  or 
six  ounces  of  hypo-sulphite  of  soda,  or  six  drams  of  sulphate  of  zinc,  or  three 
ounces  of  powdered  alum  in  a gallon  of  tepid  water.  Or,  put  six  drams  of 
carbolic  acid  and  two  ounces  of  glycerine  into  a gallon  of  water  and  use  any 
one  of  the  above  solutions  freely  once  a day  until  the  discharge  has  almost 
ceased,  then  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  use  the  medicine  so  often.  Feed  less  of 
vegetables  and  more  grain ; also  give  mineral  tonics  such  as  iron,  copper  and 
arsenic. 

ABORTION— CONTAGIOUS  ABORTpN.— What  is  understood  by 
abortion  is  the  expulsion  of  the  foetus  bfore  it  is  properly  matured  and  at  a 
time  when  it  will  not  live  outside  of  its  mother.  Abortion  is  perhaps  most 
common  in  cows ; however,  it  affects  mares,  sows  and  ewes.  There  are  two 
common  causes — accidents  and  contagion.  If  accidental  and  the  animal  cleans 
properly,  bad  results  do  not  generally  follow.  However,  if  a miscarriage  is 
due  to  either  acute  or  chronic  contagious  abortion  it  should  be  regarded 
seriously  for  it  is  no  easy  matter  to  stamp  this  disease  out  of  a herd.  Cows 
affected  with  acute  abortion  may  lose  one,  two  or  three  calves  and  later  the 
disease  becomes  chronic;  then  the  cows  may  carry  their  calves  nearly  to  if 
not  to  the  full  time.  Cows  suffering  from  chronic  abortion  do  not  as  a rule 
yield  as  much  milk  as  if  they  were  in  a healthy  condition.  Cows  affected 
with  accidental  abortion  usually  show  some  eft*ects  of  the  accident  but  no  well 
marked  symptoms  of  abortion.  But  if  due  to  contagion,  little  red  patches  can 
be  seen  on  the  lining  membrane  of  the  vulva ; besides,  if  the  herd  bull  is 
affected  he  usually  has  some  catarrhal  discharge.  The  germs  of  contagious 
abortion  can  be  found  in  the  genital  organs  of  the  cow  and  perhaps  in  the 
blood.  They  are  also  found  in  the  stables  where  the  animals  are  housed. 

TREATMENT. — The  genital  organs  of  the  cow  and  bull  should  be 
washed  out  with  an  antiseptic  solution  of  some  kind.  Unless  these  germs  are 
killed,  not  only  in  the  animal  but  about  the  premises,  especially  the  back  part 
of  stalls,  you  may  expect  future  trouble  and  financial  losses.  Apply  one  part 
of  carbolic  acid  and  fifty  parts  of  water,  or  one  part  corrosive  sublimate  to 
one  thousand  parts  water,  or  one  part  chloride  of  zinc  and  one  thousand 
parts  water,  or  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  thirty  or  forty  parts  water. 
Whichever  lotion  you  use  it  should  be  injected  or  poured  through  a small 


148 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


rubber  tube  with  a funnel  at  the  end  and  not  less  than  three  or  four  pints 
should  be  used  at  a time.  Repeat  once  a day  until  the  discharge  ceases  and 
the  lining  membrane  appears  normal.  These  same  lotions  will  do  for  stall, 
floor  and  external  hind  parts  of  the  cow.  Whitewash  is  another  useful  thing 
to  apply  to  stall  and  floor.  Never  forget  the  importance  of  separating  the 
sick  cow  from  the  rest  of  the  herd  as  soon  as  she  aborts.  Be  thorough  in  the 
treatment  of  every  cow  that  calves  too  soon.  Some  veterinarians  are  inclined 
to  believe  that  the  serum  treatment,  administered  with  a hypodermic  syringe 
to  destroy  the  germs  in  the  mother’s  blood  and  system,  is  the  only  correct  and 
reliable  method  of  destroying  this  contagion.  However,  I must  say  that  it 
has  not  given  me  satisfactory  results  and  a majority  of  the  veterinarians  hold 
the  same  opinion. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PREVENTION  OF  ABORTION.— 

1.  Salt  and  Carbolic  Acid. — Thoroughly  mix  V4  ounce  of  pure  carbolic 
acid  with  a quart  of  salt.  This  quantity  should  be  divided  among  four  cows 
twice  a month. 

2.  Contagious  Abortion.— Once  a day  give  each  cow  15  drops  of  car- 
bolic acid  diluted  in  three  pints  of  water.  This  may  be  sprinkled  in  the  feed 
and  should  be  continued  for  two  months.  Also  inject  into  the  vagina  an 
ounce  of  lysol  diluted  with  three  quarts  of  warm  water.  This  should  be  done 
once  or  twice  a week  for  five  or  six  weeks. 

NYMPHOMANIA. — This  is  an  unnatural  desire  on  the  part  of  the  cow 
to  have  intercourse  with  a bull,  she  seemingly  being  constantly  in  season. 
When  mated  she  seldom  comes  with  calf  and  if  she  does  she  usually  aborts. 

TREATMENT. — Feeding  rich  stimulating  food  tends  to  make  the  cow 
worse.  If  caused  by  catarrh  of  the  genital  tract  use  cooling  astringents,  such 
as  are  recommended  for  leucorrhea  but  if  the  ovaries  are  diseased,  spay  her. 
Give  a teaspoonful  of  saltpeter,  a teaspoonful  of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  camphor  at  a dose  in  feed  twice  a day. 

GARGET— MAMMITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  UDDER.— 
This  is  a swelling  accompanied  by  an  inflammation  of  the  udder  or  mammary 
gland  and  resulting  in  what  is  called  garget,  or  caked  bag.  This  usually  occurs 
near  the  time  of  parturition  but  may  appear  at  any  time  while  the  cow  is 
giving  milk. 

CAUSES. — It  is  caused  by  anything  that  will  produce  an  irritation  of  the 
bag  such  as  an  injury  by  a bruise,  kick,  blow,  one  animal  stepping  on  the 
udder  of  another,  exposure  to  cold  winds,  lying  on  wet  frozen  ground,  germs 
entering  the  udder,  and  it  very  often  follows  the  careless  use  of  the  milking 
tube. 

SYMPTOMS. — Acute  mammitis  is  generally  ushered  in  by  shivering 
which  is  soon  followed  by  dullness  and  fever;  however,  in  the  milder  forms 
these  symptoms  may  not  show  but  the  udder  will  be  found  hot,  swollen  and 
somewhat  tender.  The  milk  is  sometimes  curdled  and  tinged  with  blood  and 
unless  a recovery  takes  place  pus  may  form  which  is  either  discharged  through 
the  teat  or  opens  outwardly.  In  many  cases  no  suppuration  takes  place  but 
the  bag  is  inclined  to  harden  and  remain  enlarged  and  in  bad  cases  it  becomes 
gangrenous  and  a portion  of  the  udder  sloughs  off.  One  or  more  quarters 
may  be  affected.  Some  cows  appear  to  be  more  liable  to  attacks  of  mammitis, 
or  garget,  than  others. 

TREATMENT. — Ascertain  as  quickly  as  possible  whether  it  is  due  to  an 
injury  or  bacterial  infection.  If  due  to  cold  or  exposure  keep  the  animal  in  a 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


149 


warm  comfortable  place  and  bed  her  well  so  that  she  cannot  bruise  her  udder. 
If  she  is  fleshy  and  has  been  over  fed,  reduce  her  grain  supply.  Foment  the 
udder  with  hot  water  and  apply  hot  camphorated  oil  or  hot  raw  linseed  oil, 
or  hot  sweet  oil,  or  hot  vaseline  twice  a day.  If  her  bowels  are  costive  give 
her  epsom  salts  and  ginger.  If  she  is  feverish  give  one-half-ounce  doses  of 
saltpeter,  or  give  two-ounce  doses  of  hypo-sulphite  of  soda  three  times  a day. 
In  bad  cases  keep  on  hot  fomentations  almost  constantly  until  the  inflamma- 
tion subsides.  If  you  use  a milking  tube  boil  it  in  hot  water  for  ten  minutes 
each  time  before  it  is  used,  or  dip  it  into  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty 
parts  water.  In  treating  try  to  remove  the  cause. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  GARGET  OR  CAKED  UDDER.— 

1.  Carrot  Ointment. — Grate  some  yellow  carrot  and  simmer  in  lard 
to  make  an  ointment.  First  bathe  the  udder  with  water  as  hot  as  the  hand 
will  bear,  then  dry  and  rub  the  ointment  in  thoroughly. 

2.  Camphor  and  Sweet  Oil. — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  camphor  gum  in 
four  ounces  of  sweet  oil  and  rub  well  into  the  udder  two  or  three  times  a day. 

3.  Tallow,  Beeswax  and  Rosin. — Rub  the  bag  with  equal  parts  of  mutton 
tallow,  beeswax  and  rosin  which  have  been  melted  together.  A little  currier’s 
oil  mixed  with  this  will  make  it  spread  better. 

4.  Hog’s  Lard. — Rub  the  udder  well  with  hog’s  lard. 

5.  Salts  and  Soap  Suds. — Give  a dose  of  epsom  salts  and  rub  the  bag 
with  hot  soap  suds. 

6.  Poke  Root. — Feed  one-half  to  one  ounce  of  poke  root  and  also  apply 
a poke  root  poultice  to  the  udder. 

7.  Salts  and  Poultices. — Give  a pound  of  epsom  salts  and  apply  poultices 
of  bran  and  hops  which  should  be  kept  hot  by  pouring  on  hot  water  occa- 
sionally. The  cow  should  be  milked  a dozen  or  fifteen  times  a day. 

8.  Iodine. — Once  a day  give  the  cow  twenty  drops  of  tincture  of  iodine 
in  the  feed.  A reliable  remedy. 

BLOODY  MILK.  — 

CAUSES. — This  is  usually  the  result  of  an  injury  caused  by  the  cow’s 
jumping  or  stepping  over  fences,  over  beams  in  the  cow  stables,  over  logs 
in  the  woods,  one  cow’s  hooking  another,  a colt’s  kicking  the  udder,  lying 
down  on  hard  substances  or  injuring  the  udder  on  the  floor  of  the  stall.  Or 
it  may  be  caused  by  careless  milking. 

TREATMENT. — Remove  the  cause  if  possible.  Bed  the  cow  well,  bathe 
the  udder  with  hot  water  and  dissolve  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar  of  lead  in 
a gallon  of  cold  water  and  apply  to  the  udder  three  times  a day.  Showering 
the  udder  with  cold  water  for  a few  minutes  has  a tendency  to  close  the  open 
blood  vessel.  You  should  use  care  in  milking.  Nearly  every  owner  of  cows 
can  ascertain  the  cause  of  his  cow’s  giving  bloody  milk  and  if  so  he  can  remedy 
it  by  removing  the  cause.  Bunting  calves  frequently  cause  their  mothers  to 
give  bloody  milk. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BLOODY  MILK.— 

1.  Aconite. — Twice  a day  give  twenty  or  thirty  drops  of  tincture  of 
aconite  in  dampened  feed.  You  will  be  surprised  at  the  effectiveness  of  this 
remedy. 

STRINGY  MILK. — Stringy  milk  is  often  the  result  of  cows  wading  into 
stagnant  ponds  or  rivers  and  getting  the  bag  covered  with  filth  and  drinking 
this  kind  of  water. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  cattle  out  of  ponds  which  contain  impure 


150 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


water  and' furnish  them  a good  quality  of  water  to  drink.  Wash  their  udders 
clean  with  soap  and  water  and  apply  one  part  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  four 
parts  water.  Also  inject  into  the  udder  the  same  as  directed  in  the  treatment 
for  blue  milk. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  STRINGY  MILK.— 

1.  Aconite. — Give  twenty  or  thirty  drops  of  tincture  of  aconite  twice  a 

day. 

BLUE  MILK. — Milk,  presents  a sky-blue  color  on  account  of  its  contain- 
ing a great  many  germs.  The  germs  may  enter  the  milk  after  it  has  been 
milked  or  the  milk  may  be  blue  on  account  of  germs  that  have  inhabited 
either  the  teat  duct  or  udder. 

TREATMENT. — If  you  are  sure  that  the  germs  are  in  the  udder  or  teat 
duct,  inject  one  part  lysol  or  one  part  carbolic  acid  in  two  hundred  parts 
water  or,  in  bad  cases,  use  it  twice  this  strength.  In  making  these  applica- 
tions it  is  best  to  use  a return  flow  syringe,  or  they  should  be  carefully  done 
with  a common  syringe,  but  be  sure  that  it  is  clean.  Whenever  a fluid  of 
this  kind  is  injected  into  the  udder  it  should  be  milked  out  after  remaining 
in  the  eland  or  teat  for  a few  minutes. 

BLOCKED  TEATS— STRICTURE  OF  THE  TEATS.— This  is  a very 
common  ailment  in  cows  and  is  caused  by  an  injury  or  an  irritant  of  some  kind 
in  the  milk  passage  which  partially  or  completely  closes  the  duct. 

TREATMENT. — In  many  pases  treatment  is  very  unsatisfactory.  Apply 
either  iodine  ointment  or  tincture  of  iodine  lightly  every  day  or  two  and  if 
it  is  caused  by  a small  polypus  this  can  sometimes  be  removed  with  a wire 
loop  passed  up  through  the  teat  opening,  cutting  off  the  polypus  at  its  base. 
In  may  cases  I have  found  it  necessary  to  cut  down  upon  the  bunch  and  re- 
move it.  This  operation,  however,  should  be  performed  when  the  cow  is 
dry.  AVhen  the  operation  has  been  performed,  a probe  or  milking  tube  should 
be  put  into  the  teat  and  a milking  tube  should  be  left  in  until  the  wound 
heals  or  a stricture  is  likely  to  take  place.  I have  often  operated  while  the 
cow  was  giving  milk  and  met  with  fairly  good  success ; however,  the  opera- 
tion is  most  satisfactory  when  the  cow  is  dry. 

PASSING  THE  MILKING  TUBE. — Every  dairyman  and  farmer  knows 
what  milking  tubes  are  but  the  careless  use  of  them  produces  serious  udder 
troubles  by  infection  for  want  of  cleanliness.  After  it  has  been  used  the  in- 
strument should  be  cleaned  in  hot  water  and  always  boiled  ten  minutes  before 
it  is  used  again ; or,  it  should  be  dipped  into  an  antiseptic  solution  of  one  part 
carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts  water  or  a strong  soda  solution  made  by  dis- 
solving an  ounce  of  baking  soda  in  a pint  of  water;  or,  it  should  be  allowed  to 
remain  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes  before  it  is  used.  When  passing  the  tube, 
turn  it  and  use  gentle  pressure  and  you  will  not  injure  the  teat  duct  and  be 
sure  that  vour  tube  is  a little  longer  than  the  teat. 

BLEEDING  FROM  THE  NAVEL.— This  may  occur  at  time  of  birth 
or  within  a day  or  two  afterwards.  When  the  cord  is  cut  too  close  to  the 
navel  and  not  tied  a hemorrhage  may  take  place  and  in  a young  animal  with 
but  little  blood  it  soon  produces  great  weakness. 

TREATMENT. — Whenever  any  cord  is  left  it  is  good  practice  to  tie  it 
with  a clean  piece  of  silk,  linen  or  catgut.  When  there  is  much  swelling  a 
loop  of  the  bowel  mav  be  down  and  if  this  be  the  case  the  bowel  should  be 
pressed  upward  and  the  cord  then  tied  below  the  bowel,  for  if  the  bowel  is 
tied  in  with  the  cord  it  will  produce  death.  A solution  of  powdered  alum, 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


151 


copperas  or  lead,  made  by  adding  one-fourth  of  a pound  of  whichever  is  used 
to  a gallon  of  water,  should  be  applied  to  it  twice  a day.  I might  say  that 
the  navel  of  every  young  animal  should  be  treated  twice  a day  for  a few  days 
with  an  antiseptic  such  as  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  forty  or  fifty  parts  water, 
or  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  twenty  parts  water.  Or,  you  may  use 
any  good  home  healing  remedy,  for  if  applied  it  will  pften  prevent  infection. 

SUSPENDED  BREATHING  IN  NEW-BORN  CALVES.— When  the 
circulation  through  the  navel  string  stops,  death  soon  follows  unless  breathing 
is  established  and  it  is  astonishing  how  quickly  the  young  calf  makes  an 
effort  to  breathe  when  the  cool  air  strikes  the  surface  of  the  body.  This  seems 
to  produce  contraction  of  the  respiratory  muscles  and  diaphragm.  Many 
young  calves  die  from  suspended  breathing  just  before  or  during  birth  on 
account  of  a closing  of  the  navel  cord  from  pressure  which  stops  the  circula- 
tion ; besides,  the  calf  is  in  such  a position  that  it  cannot  breathe.  It  is  always 
unfortunate  for  the  foetal  membranes  to  be  pulled  away  from  the  womb  in 
the  early  part  of  calving.  With  weak  cows  that  have  trouble  calving  and  also 
when  the  membranes  are  wrapped  over  the  head,  the  calf  sometimes  smothers. 

TREATMENT. — Remove  the  membranes  and  clear  the  nose  and  mouth 
of  mucus  as  soon  as  possible.  Produce  suction  through  the  nostrils,  outward ; 
and  sometimes  blowing  into  the  nostrils  has  a good  effect.  In  some  cases 
blowing  air  into  the  lungs  revives  a calf.  Gentle  artificial  breathing  by  com- 
pressing the  chest  helps.  Whatever  is  done  should  be  done  promptly  but 
always  avoid  allowing  a young  calf  to  chill. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  NAVEL  URINE  DUCT.— This  is  an  in- 
flammation of  the  urachus,  or  navel  urine  duct,  and  is  generally  the  result  of  an 
injury. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  redness,  heat,  swelling  and  pain.  This 
navel  enlargement  is  always  hard  and  extends  backward  and  if  the  urine  is 
examined  it  will  perhaps  contain  some  pus  which  shows  that  pus  is  being 
passed  through  the  ordinary  channel  back  into  the  bladder. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  one  part  of  carbolic  acid,  one  part  of  sugar  of 
lead,  six  parts  of  glycerine  and  tert  parts  of  water  to  the  navel  two  or  three 
times  a day,  commencing  soon  after  birth.  By  doing  so  this  trouble  may  be 
avoided  as  it  is  often  the  result  of  infection  or  a dripping  of  urine. 

URINE  DISCHARGED  THROUGH  THE  NAVEL.— Before  birth  the 
urine  of  a foetus  passes  from  the  bladder  through  a special  tube  called  the 
urachus,  through  the  navel  and  string  into  the  outer  water  bag  and  at  birth  this 
should  close  and  the  tube  be  drawn  in  toward  the  bladder.  Male  calves  and 
colts  are  more  likely  to  drip  urine  at  the  navel  than  females  as  the  urethra  of 
the  male  is  sometimes  small  and  not  well  developed. 

TREATMENT. — If  a portion  of  the  cord  remains  it  should  be  tied  and 
allowed  to  dry  up  or  wither  away.  If  the  ends  are  too  short,  apply  the  follow- 
ing lotion  or  powder.  Dissolve  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar  of  lead  and  two 
ounces  of  tannic  acid  in  a gallon  of  water  and  apply  four  times  a day ; or 
dust  on  equal  parts  of  powdered  alum  and  tannic  acid ; or  apply  Monsell’s 
solution  of  iron ; or  apply  a light  blister,  using  cerate  of  cantharides,  which 
produces  swelling  and  closes  the  opening.  Or,  touch  the  leaking  parts  with 
the  end  of  a red  hot  iron ; this  sets  up  inflammation  and  swelling  which  very 
often  closes  the  opening.  When  the  urethra  and  urachus  are  both  closed  and 
the  urethra  cannot  be  opened  the  urine  may  collect  in  the  bladder,  bringing  on 


1.52 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


uremia  and  death,  but  generally  as  soon  as  the  urachus  is  closed  the  urine 
will  pass  off  through  the  natural  channel. 

JOINT-ILL— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  JOINTS  IN  CALVES.— 
This  ailment  very  often  affects  calves  from  three  to  thirty  days  old  and  it  may 
affect  one  or  more  joints  but  usually  attacks  the  knee  or  hock.  There  is 
always  more  or  less  fever  and  inflammation  in  the  joints  and  this  is  no  doubt 
caused  by  a sort  of  infection  passing  into  the  body  through  the  navel  opening, 
hence  the  necessity  of  treating  the  navel  of  every  young  animal. 

TREATMENT. — Foment  the  joints  with  hot  water  but  never  apply  any 
strong  liniment  or  blisters.  Apply  equal  parts  extract  of  witch  hazel,  alcohol, 
spirits  of  camphor  and  water.  Or,  apply  soap  liniment  or  lead  lotion  and  if 
the  colt  is  in  much  pain  apply  one  part  laudanum  and  four  parts  water. 

SPAYING. — This  operation  consists  in  removing  the  ovaries  in  order  that 
the  cow  or  heifer  will  not  come  in  heat  again  or  breed.  In  young  heifers  it  is 
best  done  by  making  an  opening  into  the  flank  or  flanks  in  the  same  location 
as  for  rumenotomy.  In  older  animals  the  operation  can  be  made  by  cutting 
through  the  wall  of  the  \agina.  The  animal  should  be  fasted  for  a day  or 
two  before  the  operation  or  it  should  be  emptied  out  by  giving  a dose  of 
cathartic  medicine.  Before  operating  the  animal  should  be  placed  in  stocks. 
Clip  the  hair  off  the  flank  high  up  and  make  an  incision  through  the  skin  and 
muscles  large  enough  to  admit  the  hand.  Pass  the  hand  in,  down  and  back 
until  you  find  the  womb.  Follow  it  up  to  the  end  of  the  horn  and  you  will 
find  the  ovary,  which  is  about  the  size  of  a small  finger;  pass  in  a long 
ecraseur,  slipping  the  ovary  through  the  chain  loop,  and  cut  it  off  as  is  done 
in  castrating  colts  with  the  ecraseur.  When  operating,  cleanliness  should  be 
observed  and  antiseptics  should  be  used ; also  be  careful  not  to  allow  the  ovary 
to  drop  into  the  abdominal  cavity  or  it  may  produce  death.  Both  ovaries  can 
be  taken  through  the  one  opening.  However,  some  operators  prefer  to 
operate  on  both  sides.  I always  operate  on  but  one  side  and  in  cows  I prefer 
to  operate  through  the  vagina.  However,  antiseptics  and  great  cleanliness 
should  be  used  in  operating  by  this  method.  Inexperienced  persons  should 
not  operate  through  the  vagina. 

BARRENNESS  IN  COWS  AND  BULLS.— 

CAUSES. — This  is  very  often  the  result  of  an  acid  condition  of  the  genital 
tract  or  genital  organs,  or  a diseased  condition  which  is  the  result  of  germ 
infection.  A catarrhal  condition  in  either  male  or  female  usually  produces 
barrenness.  It  is  true  that  barrenness  may  be  the  result  of  debility  and  the 
want  of  proper  food  supply  while,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  often  the  result 
of  a plethoric  condition  which  is  the  result  of  over-feeding  and  no  exercise. 
In  the  male  it  is  often  due  to  too  much  service.  It  is  also  the  result  of  an 
abnormal  condition  of  the  ovaries  in  the  female  or  of  the  testicles  in  the 
male.  Perhaps  it  is  most  often  the  result  of  neglect  following  a miscarriage 
and  improper  cleaning  of  the  cow.  In  the  female  it  is  frequently  caused  by  a 
closing  of  the  neck  of  the  womb. 

TREATMENT. — If  it  is  the  result  of  debility,  increase  the  food  supply; 
if  caused  by  plethora,  reduce  her  feed.  If  an  acid  condition  exists,  dissolve 
a tablespoonful  of  baking  soda  in  three  pints  or  more  of  tepid  water  and 
wash  out  the  vagina  daily,  or  try  the  yeast  treatment  which  has  been  ex- 
plained in  treating  barrenness  in  mares.  Before  treating  a case  try  to  ascer- 
tain the  cause.  Use  mild  astringents,  such  as  alum,  sugar  of  lead,  sulphate  of 
zinc,  chloride  of  zinc,  carbolic  acid,  bi-chloride  of  mercury  or  any  of  the 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


153 


coal-tar  disinfectants,  making  the  solutions  weak.  Before  concluding  that 
an  animal  is  barren,  it  should  be  examined  by  a competent  person  who  is  able 
to  tell  why  it  does  not  breed. 

THE  GENITAL  ORGANS  OF  THE  BULL.— 

THE  TESTICLES. — The  testicles  of  the  bull  are  different  in  shape  from 
those  of  the  horse  and  the  spermatic  cord  and  artery  are  smaller  in  the  bull 
than  in  the  horse. 

THE  PENIS. — The  penis  is  long  and  pointed  and  the  sheath  extends  far- 
ther forward  than  in  the  horse.  It  is  impossible  to  pass  the  catheter  through 
the  penis  of  the  bull.  While  it  is  done  fairly  easily  in  the  horse  the  curve 
in  the  bull’s  penis  is  too  crooked  to  admit  of  the  passage  of  a catheter. 

CASTRATION  OF  BULLS  AND  CALyES.— This  consists  in  remov- 
ing the  testicles.  The  best  position  for  castrating  a bull  is  the  standing  posi- 
tion but  it  is  most  convenient  to  cast  young  calves  for  this  can  easily  be  accom- 
plished by  hand.  When  necessary  to  throw  a bull  it  can  be  done  by  the 
same  methods  used  in  castrating  horses.  If  you  have  no  travis  or  stocks,  tie 
his  head  short  to  a post  or  in  a corner,  the  right  side  against  the  wall  and  held 
there  by  an  assistant ; or,  place  a strap  or  surcingle  around  the  body  and  tie 
him  to  the  wall ; then  wash  the  testicles  with  carbolic  lotion,  one  part  car- 
bolic acid  to  thirty  parts  of  clean  water ; dip  the  hands  and  knife  in  this  same 
lotion ; take  hold  of  the  scrotum  firmly,  crowding  both  testicles  low  down ; 
make  a bold  incision  on  back  part  of  scrotum  to  its  very  bottom,  allowing 
testicle  to  escape ; take  hold  of  one  and  draw  it  down,  cutting  loose  the  thin 
attachment  on  the  fore  part  of  the  testicle ; then  cut  off  the  cord  well  up, 
using  an  emasculator  or  ecraseur,  or  tie  the  cord  with  catgut  or  silk  to  pre- 
vent bleeding  and  let  the  ends  of  the  string  hang  down  out  of  the  wound  to 
be  pulled  off  later.  In  young  calves  the  cord  can  be  cut  off  with  scissors  or 
a knife  and  they  will  not  bleed  enough  to  do  any  harm.  The  wounds  should 
be  treated  once  a day,  using  the  carbolic  lotion,  peroxide  of  hydrogen,  coal- 
tar  disinfectants  or  any  other  good  home  healing  remedy.  Never  forget 
the  importance  of  saturating  the  string  of  catgut  or  silk  you  use  in  tying 
the  cord  in  carbolized  oil  or  carbolic  lotion,  also  use  the  same  for  instruments 
and  wound.  Keep  the  animal  in  a clean  stable  or  turn  him  into  a pasture. 

RIDGLING  BULLS  OR  “ RIGS.” — These  are  animals  where  either  one 
or  both  testicles  have  not  come  down  into  the  scrotum. 

TREATMENT. — A surgical  operation  such  as  is  easily  performed  on 
stallions  cannot  be  successfully  performed  on  bulls,  therefore  they  should  be 
fatted  before  they  become  a nuisance  and  perhaps  dangerous. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  TESTICLES— ORCHITIS.— This  is  usu- 
ady  the  result  of  an  injury  of  some  kind  or  a diseased  condition  of  the  parts 
or  the  result  of  excessive  service. 

SYMPTOMS. — Walking  with  a straddling  gait,  heat  and  tenderness  of 
the  gland  and  more  or  less  swelling  are  the  symptoms. 

TREATMENT. — Give  not  less  than  one  pound  or  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  epsom  salts  with  a tablespoonful  of  ginger  added.  Dissolve  in  two 
or  three  pints  of  water  and  give  as  a drench.  Foment  the  testicles  and 
scrotum  with  hot  water  and  apply  one  part  fluid  extract  of  belladonna  and 
six  parts  water.  When  it  is  not  convenient  to  foment,  apply  a poultice  of 
either  linseed  meal  or  antiphlogistine.  Give  the  animal  plenty  of  salt  and 
a tablespoonful  of  saltpeter  at  a dose  in  feed  twice  a day.  In  some  cases. 


154 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


where  the  injury  has  been  great,  an  abscess  may  form.  If  this  be  the  case, 
open  it  and  treat  as  recommended  for  abscess. 

GONORRHEA— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  URETHRA.— This  is 
an  inflammation  of  the  urethra,  which  conveys  the  urine  from  the  bladder, 
and  it  is  generally  the  result  of  infection  from  serving  cows  affected  with 
leucorrhea,  or  of  too  frequent  service ; or,  it  may  come  from  an  acid,  catarrhal 
condition  of  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  urethra.  Give  epsom  salts  to  open 
the  bowels,  bathe  the  sheath  with  hot  water  three  times  a day  and  dissolve 
one  dram  of  permanganate  of  potash  in  half  a gallon  of  water  or  dissolve 
one  ounce  of  lysol  in  a gallon  of  water,  and  inject  into  the  urethra  once  or  twice 
a day.  These  applications  are  most  conveniently  made  through  a small 
rubber  tube  with  a funnel  attachment.  Give  one-half  ounce  of  citrate  of  potash 
at  a dose  in  feed  three  times  a day  or  one  ounce  of  lithia  three  times  a day, 
or  it  will  do  no  harm  to  give  them  both. 

INJURIES  TO  THE  SHEATH  AND  PENIS.— From  animals  being 
placed  in  slings  or  work  oxen  being  placed  in  stocks  to  be  shod  or  from  cattle 
jumping  fences  the  sheath  and  penis  may  be  injured. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is, swelling  and  pain,  causing  some  fever,  and  there 
is  dryness  of  the  muzzle.  There  is  also  straddling  with  loss  of  appetite  and 
in  the  latter  stages  there  may  be  some  suppuration. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  hot  packs  or  hot  poultices  of  linseed  meal  or 
antiphlogistine  and  keep  up  these  applications  constantly,  for  prompt,  ener- 
getic treatment  saves  the  life  of  many  a good  bull  or  steer.  Three  or  four 
tim.es  a day  apply  a lotion  made  by  dissolving  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar 
of  lead  in  a gallon  of  water  and  adding  one  pint  of  fluid  extract  of  opium 
and  one  quart  of  witch  hazel.  If  occurring  in  the  summer  season  cold  ap- 
plications have  a good  effect.  If  suppuration  takes  place,  open  and  treat 
with  antiseptics. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  SKIN. 

(Including  Mange  or  Scab,  Eczema,  Ringworm,  Erysipelas,  Frostbites, 
Tumors,  Abscesses,  Warts,  Sore  and  Chapped  Teats,  Grubs,  Lice,  Etc.) 


MANGE,  SCAB  OR  ITCH. — This  ailment  is  caused  by  a mite  very  much 
like  the  parasite  that  causes  sheep  scab.  Cattle  itch,  as  it  is  called,  is  most 
prevalent  throughout  the  West  and  Southwest  during  the  winter  season  and 
is  mostly -confined  to  young  cattle.  Besides,  it  usually  affects  those  that  are 
in  an  unthrifty  condition. 

SYMPTC)MS. — It  produces  itching  about  the  neck  and  shoulders  and 
the  root  of  the  tail  and  if  not  remedied  extends  over  the  rest  of  the  body.  The 
skin  always  becomes  scurfy  and  the  * discharge  hardens  on  the  body.  The 
hair  sloughs  out  and  the  skin  becomes  wrinkled  and  thickened.  This  dis- 
ease spreads  rapidly  in  herds  when  the  stock  is  unthrifty.  Never  confound 
this  disease  with  eczema.  Try  to  find  the  parasites;  you  will  usually  find 
them  on  the  hair  or  scales. 

TREATMENT. — As  soon  as  the  disease  affects  your  animals,  remove 
the  sick  to  a clean,  uninfected  place  and  thoroughly  disinfect  it  as  well  as 
the  premises  from  which  the  affected  ones  were  brought.  Spray  one  part 
of  carbolic  acid  and  twenty  or  twenty-five  parts  of  water  on  the  stalls  and 
on  the  ground  or  floors  where  the  cattle  have  been  standing  and  be  very 
thorough  in  these  applications.  The  department  of  agriculture  recommends 
dissolving  twenty-one  pounds  of  flowers  of  sulphur  and  sixteen  and  three- 
quarter  pounds  of  unslacked  lime  in  one  hundred  gallons  of  water.  The  lime 
should  be  slacked  with  water  enough  to  form  a thick  paste,  sifting  in  the 
sulphur  slowly  but  stirring  the  mixture  well.  Boil  the  mixture  of  sulphur 
and  lime  in  twenty  or  thirty  gallons  of  water  for  two  hours  until  the  sulphur 
disappears.  Let  it  stand,  draw  off  the  clear  liquid  and  add  water  to  make 
one  hundred  gallons.  Use  this  solution  at  blood  heat  and  dip  the  cattle  once 
every  ten  days  or  two  weeks.  Two  or  three  applications  is  all  that  is  nec- 
essary. The  grooming  tools  should  also  be  dipped. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  MANGE,  SCAB  OR  ITCH.— 

1.  Aloes,  Turpentine,  Sulphur  and  Lard. — With  four  ounces  of  lard  mix 
three  ounces  of  flower  of  sulphur,  one  ounce  of  spirits  of  turpentine  and  one 
dram  of  finely  powdered  aloes.  Apply  this  ointment  to  the  parts  affected 
with  mange,  scab  or  itch. 

ECZEMA — ACUTE  AND  CHRONIC. — Eczema  is  an  inflammation  of 
the  skin  which  at  first  is  acute  and  if  not  relieved  becomes  chronic. 

CALISES. — Poor  grooming,  allowing  the  animal  to  become  filthy  or 
lousy,  over-feeding,  keeping  the  animal  in  a stable  which  is  too  warm  and 
damp,  also  feeding  distillery  slop  or  garbage  may  cause  eczema. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  more  or  less  heat  and  swelling  of  the 
skin  ; besides,  there  are  very  often  little  water  blisters  which  generally  break, 
discharge  and  soon  heal,  but  others  are  appearing  on  different  parts  of  the 
body.  The  animal  has  intense  itching  of  the  skin,  especially  the  parts  that 
are  sore.  In  some  cases  large  sores  appear,  discharge  and  remain  raw  for 
some  time. 


155 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


ir)G 

TREATMENT. — Give  a full  dose  of  epsom  salts.  From  one  to  two 
pounds  is  usually  required  to  get  up  a brisk  action  of  the  bowels.  Also  give 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  soda  or  a dessert  spoonful  of  powdered  salt- 
peter at  a dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times  a day  and  give  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  Glauber’s  salts  in  feed  twice  a day.  Dissolve  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar 
of  lead  in  one  gallon  of  water  and  apply  to  sore  parts  three  times  a day,  or 
dissolve  six  ounces  of  boric  acid  in  a gallon  of  water  and  apply  in  the  same 
way.  Or,  apply  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  thirty  parts  water  or  one 
part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  fifteen  parts  sweet  oil  or  apply  zinc  ointment. 
Feed  well  salted  bran  mashes,  vegetables  or  grass. 

ERYSIPELAS. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  skin  that  often  extends 
into  the  deeper  tissues,  producing  considerable  pain  and  fever.  It  may  be 
called  an  infectious  ailment  for  one  animal  can  take  it  from  another  by  direct 
inoculation  through  a wound. 

CAUSES. — It  is  due  to  a germ  that  makes  its  way  into  the  body  through 
a wound  or  skin  abrasion  which  is  possible  by  the  animal’s  coming  in  con- 
tact with  a sick  animal  or  where  it  has  been. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  .skin  is  swollen  and  always  hot  and  tender;  the 
swelling  usually  pits  on  pressure  and  in  severe  cases  it  has  a tendency  toward 
the  formation  of  pus. 

TREATMENT. — Give  from  one  to  two  pounds  of  epsom  salts,  one  dose 
only;  also  give  ten  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  aconite,  twenty-five  drops  of 
fluid  extract  of  belladonna  and  one-half  ounce  of  powdered  saltpeter  at  a 
dose  in  feed  or  water  two  or  three  times  a day.  If  the  animal  is  thin  give 
tonics  such  as  iron,  quinine,  quassia,  etc.  When  pus  forms  the  abscess  should 
be  opened  and  injected  with  one  part  corrosive  sublimate  and  one  thousand 
parts  water  or  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts  water.  I have  given 
the  serum  treatment  with  fairly  good  results,  but  it  is  too  expensive  to  use 
in  all  cases. 

SURFEIT— NETTLE-RASH— URTICARIA.— (See  Horse  Depart- 

ment.”) 

RINGWORM. — This  is  an  afifection  of  the  skin  very  common  in  cattle, 
and  is  due  to  a vegetable  parasite. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  disease  affects  the  skin  of  cattle  in  patches,  the 
parasites  grouping  themselves  in  fields  of  two  or  three  inches  in  diameter. 
Their  favorite  location  is  about  the  head  and  neck.  The  skin  usually  thickens 
and  becomes  scaly  and  crust-like.  Ringworm  parasites  always  cause  itching. 

TREATMENT. — Wash  the  crust  off  with  soap  suds  and  apply  tincture 
of  iodine  or  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  fifteen  parts  sweet  oil,  or  turpentine 
or  kerosene.  Be  sure  to  disinfect  or  whitewash  the  stable. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  RINGWpRM.— 

1.  Iodine. — Scrape  off  the  crusts  and  apply  tincture  of  iodine  and  repeat 
in  a week. 

HIDE-BOUND. — (See  ‘‘  Horse  Department.”) 

BURNS  AND  SCALDS. — For  burns  apply  equal  parts  of  linseed  oil  and 
lime  water.  The  lime  water  is  made  by  dissolving  lime  in  water.  The  first 
water  is  somewhat  bitter  and  should  be  poured  off  and  the  vessel  refilled. 
Water  absorbs  only  so  much  lime  and  no  more.  If  you  will  cover  the  burn 
with  baking  soda  or  flour,  then  cover  that  with  cotton  or  oaknm  it  will  exclude 
the  air.  Or,  apply  lead  lotion  which  is  made  by  dissolving  two  tablespoonfuls 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  SKIN. 


157 


of  sugar  of  lead  in  a gallon  of  water.  When  blisters  are  opened  the  air  should 
not  be  admitted  nor  the  skin  removed. 

FROSTBITES. — In  cold  countries  cattle  very  often  suffer  from  frozen 
ears  and  this  generally  happens  with  those  that  are  poorly  fed  and  improperly 
stabled. 

SYMPTOMS. — After  freezing  occurs  the  parts  soon  become  swollen 
and  painful ; the  frozen  parts,  however,  soon  again  become  cold  and  begin 
' to  shrivel  and  later  on  they  drop  off,  leaving  a raw  sore. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  some  good  home  liniment  such  as  is  made  by 
mixing  one  part  turpentine,  one  part  aqua  ammonia  and  eight  parts  sweet 
oil  and  if  the  frozen  parts  slough  off  apply  equal  parts  of  powdered  alum, 
oxide  of  zinc  and  iodoform  to  the  sore  twice  a day. 

TUMORS. — Tumors  are  abnormal  growths  which  very  often  follow  an 
injury  which  sets  up  an  inflammation  inducing  a growth  of  tissue.  There  are 
many  different  kinds  of  tumors  and  those  that  do  not  yield  to  treatment  are 
usually  of  a malignant  character. 

TREATMENT. — The  removal  of  tumors  is  the  only  satisfactory  way  to 
treat  them  and  there  are  many  different  methods,  but  cutting  them  out  is 
the  best ; however,  care  must  be  taken  to  prevent  hemorrhage.  Another  method 
is  to  place  an  elastic  band  around  the  neck  of  the  tumor  or  a thread  or  string 
can  be  used.  This  chokes  the  circulation  and  the  bunch  sloughs  off.  Another 
method  is  to  burn  them  off  with  caustic  or  with  a red  hot  iron.  When  a 
tumor  is  cut  out  with  a knife  the  wound  usually  heals  more  quickly  than  from 
any  other  method.  After  the’ operation  use  any  good  home  healing  remedy. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FLESHY  TUMORS.— 

1.  Bin-iodide  of  Mercury. — Make  an  ointment  by  thoroughly  mixing 
one  dram  of  bin-iodide  of  mercury  with  two  ounces  of  vaseline  and  rub 
well  into  the  tumor.  Repeat  in  two  weeks. 

ABSCESS. — An  abscess  is  a collection  of  pus  or  purulent  matter, 
the  result  of  a morbid  process. 

CAUSES. — The  cause  is  many  times  hard  to  trace;  however,  it  often  fol- 
lows a bruise,  strangles  in  horses,  or  some  sort  of  infection  resulting  in  the 
formation  of  pus  in  some  part  of  the  body.  The  most  serious  kind  of  ab- 
scesses are  located  in  the  abdominal  cavity  and  in  the  brain. 

TREATMENT. — Hot  fomentations  of  water;  or,  bran,  linseed  oil  or 
bread  and  milk  poultices  hasten  the  formation  of  pus.  When  the  hair  pulls 
out  easily  and  the  bunch  fluctuates  on  pressure  it  should  be  opened  and  washed 
out  Avith  one  part  of  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  two  or  three  parts  of  water, 
applied  very  slowly ; ten  minutes  later  use  coal-tar  disinfectant,  carbolic  acid, 
permanganate  of  potash,  sulphate  of  zinc  or  sugar  of  lead.  Of  course  any 
of  these  drugs  should  be  diluted  with  water  before  it  is  applied.  Any  one  of 
them  will  give  you  good  results  for  I have  tested  their  merits  hundreds 
of  times  in  the  treatment  of  abscesses.  Before  pus  forms  paint  the  parts 
with  tincture  of  iodine  and  it  will  often  absorb  the  effusion  and  scatter  or  re- 
duce the  swelling. 

WARTS. — These  are  usually  the  result  of  an  injury  to  the  skin  and  the 
most  satisfactory  way  to  get  rid  of  them  is  to  cut  them  off.  Those  that  are 
flat  can  be  taken  off  by  applying  acetic  acid,  nitrate  of  silver,  salicylic  acid 
or  chromic  acid  every  day  or  two.  Sometimes  castor  oil  will  reduce  them 
and  I know  veterinarians  who  believe  that  giving  small  doses  of  sulphur 
in  the  feed  daily  will  remove  warts,  but  I have  my  doubts  as  to  this.  In  some 


158 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


cases  I use  the  red  hot  iron  in  preference  to  drugs.  This  is,  of  course,  quicker 
than  caustics  and  more  likely  to  stop  bleeding.  As  they  are  confined  to  the 
skin,  cutting  them  out  is  the  most  satisfactory  way  to  treat  warts. 

SORE  TEATS— CRACKS  AND  SMALL  WARTS.— The  teats,  during 
cold  weather,  are  very  often  made  sore  by  the  saliva  from  calves’  mouths 
which  causes  them  to  chap  and  crack  open  and  when  once  sore  they  are 
not  easily  healed  while  the  calf  is  allowed  to  suck.  From  the  injury  to  the 
skin  warty  growths  very  often  appear  on  the  teats. 

TREATMENT. — Clip  the  warty  growths  ofif  with  a pair  of  scissors 
or  a sharp  knife,  or  burn  with  lunar  caustic.  Apply  any  good  home  heal- 
ing ointment  such  as  is  made  by  adding  one  part  of  boric  acid  to  five  parts 
of  vaseline,  or  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  to  six  parts  vaseline,  or  one 
part  sub-nitrate  of  bismuth  to  five  parts  vaseline.  There  are  many  healing 
remedies  that  should  not  be  applied  to  sore  teats  if  the  calf  is  allowed  to  suck 
the  cow  for  fear  that  the  medicine  will  act  as  a poison. 

CHAPPED  TEATS.— 

CAUSES. — Cows  that  are  sucked  by  calves  outdoors  during  cold  weather 
are  very  likely  to  have  chapped  teats  on  account  of  the  teats  remaining  wet. 
Other  causes  are : laying  on  wet  frozen  ground  or  in  snow,  walking  through 
wet  grass,  or  allowing  the  bag  to  remain  wet  after  milking;  also,  during  the 
fly  season  flies  are  often  numerous,  biting  and  irritating  the  teats  and  udders 
of  cows. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  any  good  home  healing  lotion  or  ointment  that 
is  not  giving  ofif  an  offensive  odor  which  is  likely  to  be  absorbed  by  the 
milk  at  the  time  of  milking.  Apply  oxide  of  zinc  ointment  or  one  part  carbolic 
acid  and  fifteen  parts  vaseline ; or,  apply  one  part  lemon  juice  and  five  parts 
glycerine.  Or,  dissolve  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar  of  lead  in  a gallon  of 
water  and  apply  twice  a day. 

WARBLES — GRUBS  IN  THE  BACK. — These  are  little  round  lumps 
that  appear  on  the  backs  of  cattle  during  the  winter  and  spring.  They  de- 
velop from  the  egg  of  the  ox  gad-fly.  The  eggs  are  deposited  on  the  legs, 
licked  ofif  and  remain  in  the  mouth  for  a time,  then  make  their  way  into 
the  cellular  tissue  beneath  the  skin  of  the  back  and  remain  there  until  spring. 
These  grubs  annoy  cattle  and  they  damage  the  hide  by  boring  holes  in  it. 

TREATMENT. — Every  warble  should  be  treated  in  the  early  part  of 
the  winter  by  applying  tincture  of  iodine,  turpentine,  coal-tar  disinfectant 
or  iodine  ointment  to  the  bunch.  Or,  apply  one  part  turpentine  and  three 
parts  lard  twice  a week.  This  will  kill  most  of  the  grubs  and  the  others  may 
be  liberated  by  making  the  opening  larger  with  a sharp  pen-knife  and  squeez- 
ing them  out.  Also  apply  some  home  healing  remedy  to  the  sores  once  a day. 
When  squeezed  out  the  grubs  should  be  killed. 

LICE, — There  are  two  kinds  of  lice  that  infest  cattle — the  blood-sucking 
lice  and  the  biting  lice.  There  are  two  varieties  of  blood  suckers,  one  kind 
with  long  noses  and  the  other  with  short  noses.  These  latter  are  the  regular 
ox  lice  and  are  usuallv  found  on  the  neck  and  shoulders.  The  biting  or 
bird  louse  is  of  a reddish  color  and  is  most  commonly  found  on  cattle. 

SYMPTOMS. — Cattle  become  lousy  during  the  winter  and  spring,  per- 
haps on  account  of  a run-down  condition.  A close  examination  should  be 
made  of  all  cattle,  especially  the  thin  ones  during  the  winter  months. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  equal  parts  of  kerosene  and  soap  suds,  or  one 
part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  thirty  parts  water,  or  one  part  carbolic  acid 


CATTLE— DISEASES  OF  SKIN. 


159 


and  fifty  parts  water ; or,  boil  one-quarter  pound  stavesacre  seeds  in  a gallon 
of  water  for  one  hour  and  make  up  the  quantity  to  one  gallon  before  it  is 
applied.  These  applications  should  be  made  daily  for  two  or  three  days, 
then  once  every  week  until  the  lice  and  nits  are  destroyed.  It  is  needless 
to  say  that  lice  generally  attack  thin,  unthrifty  cattle;  therefore,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  feed  them  well  and  give  them  tonics,  such  as  are  recommended  for 
chronic  indigestion,  etc. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LICE.— 

1.  Sulphur  and  Lard. — Apply  sulphur  ointment  made  by  mixing  an 
ounce  of  sulphur  with  four  ounces  of  lard. 

2.  Linseed  Oil  and  Kerosene. — Mix  an  ounce  of  kerosene  with  four 
ounces  of  raw  linseed  oil  and  apply  to  the  infested  parts. 

3.  Sulphur  and  Linseed  Oil. — Apply  a mixture  of  one  part  sulphur  and 
four  parts  lard. 

4.  Lard  and  Insect  Powder. — Mix  an  ounce  of  Persian  insect  powder 
with  four  ounces  of  fresh  lard  and  use  as  an  application  for  lice. 

5.  Tobacco  Tea. — Pour  a quart  of  boiling  water  over  four  ounces  of  to- 
bacco leaves,  let  stand  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  strain  and  apply  with 
a cloth  or  sponge. 

6.  Onions. — Give  lousy  cattle  a few  slices  of  onions  in  the  feed  and  it  is 
claimed  it  will  rid  them  of  lice. 

7.  Wood  Ashes. — Sprinkle  some  fine  wood  ashes  upon  the  parts  infested 
with  lice. 

8.  Salt, Sulphur  and  Saltpeter. — With  ten  ounces  of  salt  mix  two  ounces 
of  sulphur  and  one-half  ounce  of  saltpeter.  Keep  this  mixture  before  the  cows 
constantly  and  they  will  not  be  bothered  with  lice. 

BUFFALO  GNAT. — This  is  a small,  dark-colored  fly  with  short  silk- 
like hairs  covering  its  body.  In  certain  localities  these  flies  appear  every  year 
as  soon  as  warm  weather  comes  and  remain  from  one  to  six  weeks.  They 
seem  to  trouble  cattle  mostly  in  the  morning  and  when  numerous  do  great 
harm  by  sucking  blood  from  the  animal,  causing  weakness,  shock,  and  many 
times  death.  If  animals  are  unable  to  brush  them  off  or  drown  them  by 
wading  into  water  they  are  sure  to  do  harm.  Mules  suffer  even  more  than 
cattle  from  the  P>uffalo  Gnat. 

TREATMENT. — Whenever  the  Buffalo  Gnat  appears  build  fires  that 
will  produce  plenty  of  smoke,  adding  damp  wood,  some  sulphur,  rags,  old 
pieces  of  leather  and  rubbish.  If  the  animal  shows  weakness  give  plenty 
of  whiskey  in  cold  water,  adding  perhaps  one  dram  of  carbonate  of  ammonia 
or  one  dram  of  fluid  extract  of  nux  vomica.  Apply  fish  oil,  whale  oil  or 
cotton  seed  oil  with  oil  of  tar,  carbolic  acid  or  kerosene  added,  and  keep  the 
animal  in  a dark,  cool  place. 

HORN  FLY. — This  is  a small  insect  about  one-half  the  size  of  a house 
fly  which  it  somewhat  resembles.  Horn  flies  swarm  around  the  head  where 
they  bite  and  cause  the  animal  great  annoyance.  They  also  stick  to  the  back 
and  sides.  Apply  equal  parts  fish  oil,  coal  oil  and  pine  tar.  By  placing  some 
of  this  mixture  around  the  horns  and  ears  the  animal  will  suffer  less.  Nearly 
all  the  fly  killers  on  the  market  keep  them  off;  besides,  there  are  many  home 
remedies  that  work  well,  such  as  equal  parts  pine  tar,  fish  oil,  cotton  seed  oil 
and  kerosene.  Or,  apply  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  thirty  parts  water 
twice  daily.  I have  used  crude  oil  and  thought  it  worked  fairly  well.  These 
flies  seem  to  appear  with  the  first  warm  weather  and  leave  when  frost  comes. 


160 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  KEEPING  FLIES  OFF  OF 
STOCK.— 

1.  Economical  Treatment. — Into  an  ordinary  oil  barrel  put  two  and  one- 
half  gallons  of  zenoleum  or  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  five  gallons  of  cotton 
seed  oil  and  fill  the  barrel  with  water.  As  occasion  demands  this  may  be  used 
as  a spray  or  applied  with  a cloth  or  sponge.  It  is  not  sticky,  leaves  the 
animal’s  coat  in  good  condition,  and  is  not  expensive. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  EYE  AND  EAR. 


INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  EYES— OPHTHALMIA.— (See  “ Horse 
Department.”) 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SORE  EYES.— 

1,  Salts  and  Atropia. — Give  a pound  of  epsom  salts  and  keep  the 
bowels  open  with  laxative  feed.  Bathe  the  eyes  three  or  four  times  a day 
with  warm  water  and  after  each  bathing  drop  a few  drops  of  the  following 
solution  into  the  eyes.  Use  two  grains  of  sulphate  of  atropia  to  an  ounce  of 
water. 

PERIODIC  OPHTHALMIA— MOON  BLINDNESS.— (See  ‘‘Horse 
Department.”) 

INFLAMED  EYES— CONTAGIOUS  OPHTHALMIA.— This  is  a ca- 
tarrhal condition  and  it  may  be  the  result  of  local  causes  or  it  may  assume  an 
epidemic  form  and  affect  a great  many  of  the  herd  as  the  result  of  some  irritant 
or  germ  carried  in  the  air  or  coming  from  the  soil.  It  is  no  do.ubt  due  to  some 
sort  of  bacterial  infection  when  it  assumes  an  epidemic  form. 

TREATMENT. — Place  the  animal  in  a clean,  dark,  cool  stable;  give 
laxative  food  and  fresh  water  to  drink  and  also  give  epsom  salts  to  open  the 
bowels  and  one-half-ounce  doses  of  saltpeter  to  reduce  the  fever  and  start  the 
kidneys.  Foment  the  eyes  with  cold  water  and  blow  boric  acid  into  the 
eyes  once  a day. 

IRITIS— RETINITIS.— rSee  “Horse  Department.”) 

CONJUNCTIVITIS— CATARRH  OF  THE  EYES.— This  in  an  inflam- 
mation of  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  eye  and  it  is  best  treated  by  apply- 
ing either  hot  or  cold  applications,  keeping  the  animal  in  a clean,  well  ven- 
tilated, dark  stable  and  out  of  bright  sunlight.  If  the  bowels  are  costive 
give  q)Som  salts ; if  the  cow  is  feverish,  give*  saltpeter  or  tincture  of  aconite. 
Feed  a cooling,  laxative  diet.  Dissolve  boric  acid  in  water  and  apply  to  the 
eyes  three  times  a day.  If  the  eyes  continue  to  discharge  mucus,  blow  a 
little  calomel  into  them  once  a day. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  HAW  (MEMBRANA  NICTITANS).— 

The  haw  often  becomes  inflamed  and  enlarged  because  of  an  injury  by  some 
foreign  substance  or  because  of  a catarrhal  inflammation  of  the  eye. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  cold  water  freely.  Also  apply  weak  lead  lotions 
with  a little  opium  added  and  if  the  swelling  does  not  recede  and  the  muscle 
go  back  into  place,  run  a thread  through  it,  pull  it  out  and  clip  it  off  with 
a pair  of  sharp  scissors  or  a knife ; then  apply  boric  acid  or  any  home  eye 
wash  two  or  three  times  a day. 

WORM  IN  THE  EYE.— G'^ee  “ Plorse  Department.”) 

CANCER  IN  THE  EYE— FUNGUS  H^MATODES. Sometimes 
these  cancerous  growths  appear  in  the  eye  and  their  cause  is  unknown. 
When  there  is  cancer  in  the  eye  the  ball  usually  bursts  and  a fungous  growth 
soon  appears. 

TREATMENT. — The  sooner  the  e}^eball  is  removed,  the  quicker  the 
animal  will  recover;  this  can  be  done  painlessly  by  the  use  of  an  aniesthetic 
or  cocaine;  then  apply  any  good  home  healing  remedy. 

B--U 


162 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


AMAUROSIS— GLASS  EYE— GUTTA  SERENA.— This  condition  of 
the  eye  is  due  to  paralysis  of  the  optic  nerve  and  its  terminal  expansion,  the 
retina,  without  much  change  in  the  appearance  of  the  eye  itself.  It  may  co- 
exist with  periodic  ophthalmia  and  cataract  but  not  very  often.  It  sometimes 
appears  as  a symptom  of  milk  fever  and  in  the  last  stages  of  other  diseases. 
Injuries  to  the  optic  nerve,  or  standing  for  a long  time  in  a dark  stable  brings 
it  on.  Mules  in  coal  mines  are  often  sufferers  from  this  ailment.  Amaur- 
osis sometimes  occurs  in'  pregnant  cows  and  mares  and  leaves  a few  days 
before  calving  or  foaling.  It  also  sometimes  follows  hemorrhage. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  pupillary  opening  seems  to  lose  its  elliptical  form 
and  become  round  and  the  eyeball  enlarges  and  has  a glassy  appearance. 
Both  eyes  are  generally  affected  unless  it  is  the  result  of  an  injury,  then  one 
eye  only  may  be  affected.  The  sight  is  usually  impaired  and  very  often  lost. 

TREATMENT. — Give  one-ounce  doses  of  bromide  of  potash  four  times 
daily ; or  give  one  dram  of  ground  nux  vomica  in  the  feed  three  times  a day. 
Keep  the  animal  in  a stable  with  dim  light  and  the  bowels  should  be  kept 
open. 

CATARACT.— (See  ‘‘  Horse  Department.”) 

FOREIGN  BODIES  IN  THE  EYE.— Quite  often  chaff,  barley-beards, 
little  pieces  of  wood,  old  leaves,  pieces  of  fodder  or  weeds  break  off  and  re- 
main in  the  eye,  causing  inflammation,  blindness  and  sometimes  an  abscess. 

TREATMENT. — Secure  the  animal  and  remove  the  object  as  carefully 
as  possible  without  injuring  the  eyeball.  If  the  eyeball  is  punctured  there 
is  generally  loss  of  vision,  but  small  punctured  wounds  may  heal.  Blow  in 
some  boric  acid  twice  a day  or  apply  one  part  extract  of  witch  hazel  and 
two  parts  water. 

DISLOCATION  OF  THE  EYEBALL. — It  is  not  unusual  for  one  ani- 
mal to  hook  the  eyeball  out  of  another,  or  the  eye  is  sometimes  crowded 
out  with  the  end  of  a walking  cane  or  a punching  stick. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  optic  nerve  is  not  lacerated  and  the  muscles  too 
badly  torn  it  is  advisable  to  replace  the  eyeball  and  stitch  the  lids  together 
or  use  a compress  to  hold  the  eye  in  place ; however,  if  the  attempt  to  re- 
place it  is  unsuccessful  cocaine  should  be  used  and  the  eyeball  taken  out. 

INJURIES  TO  THE  EYELIDS. — Cattle  frequently  meet  with  accidents 
by  coming  in  contact  with  barbed  wire  or  being  hooked  by  other  cattle.  A 
splinter  of  wood  may  injure  the  eyelid  or  it  may  be  injured  by  a nail. 

TREATAIENT. — If  the  wound  is  lacerated,  trim  off  the  edges  and  stitch 
with  silk  or  linen  thread  and  keep  the  parts  dressed  with  boric  acid  or  any 
good  home  healing  remedy  that  will  not  injure  the  eye. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  INTERNAL  EAR— OTITIS.— This  con- 
sists" in  an  inflammation  of  the  inner  ear  and  sometimes  the  bone  becomes 
diseased,  especially  if  it  is  brought  on  by  an  injury;  or,  the  ear  may  become 
sore  from  lump  jaw  or  tubercular  affections. 

SYAIPTOMS. — If  but  one  ear  is  affected  the  head  is  held  to  one  side. 
The  animal  may  not  eajt  well  and  in  some  cases  pus  is  discharged,  giving  off 
an  offensive  odor. 

TREATAIENT. — Apply  hot  fomentations  and  pour  into  the  ear  very 
slowly  one  part  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  five  parts  water,  then  dust  in  some 
boric  acid  powder;  or,  if  the  animal  appears  to  be  in  pain,  pour  in  a small 
quantity  of  laudanum  and  sweet  oil,  one  part  of  laudanum  to  ten  or  twelve 
parts  of  oil.  Where  a cooling  astringent  is  required  dissolve  one  ounce  of 


CATTLE-DISEASES  OF  EYE  AND  EAR. 


163 


sugar  of  lead  in  two  quarts  of  water  and  use  some  of  this  solution  once  or 
twice  a day. 

DISEASE  OF  THE  CARTILAGE  OF  THE  EAR.— When  the  ear  be- 
comes badly  bruised  the  cartilage  may  become  diseased  and  when  it  does  the 
discharge  is  quite  offensive. 

TREATMENT. — If  a pipe  or  sinus  forms  cut  it  out  or  rip  it  open  and 
also  cut  away  the  diseased  portion  of  the  cartilage ; then  apply  equal  parts 
of  boric  acid  and  powdered  alum  twice  a day  or  use  any  good  home  healing 
remedy. 

ABSCESS  OF  THE  EAR. — It  is  not  unusual  for  cattle  to  have  abscesses 
of  the  ear  for  they  are  the  result  of  either  filth  or  injury. 

TREx\TMENT. — Open  the  abscess  freely,  washing  it  out  with  one  part 
peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  two  parts  water,  then  apply  one  part  carbolic  acid 
and  fifty  parts  water;  or,  the  inside  of  the  abscess  may  be  painted  with 
tincture  of  iodine  or  injected  with  one  part  powdered  sulphate  of  copper 
and  one  hundred  parts  water.  Only  two  or  three  applications  will  be 
required. 

FOREIGN  BODIES  IN  THE  EAR. — Whenever  a foreign  body  lodges 
in  the  ear  the  animal  shakes  the  head  or  rubs  the  head  and  ear  against  fences, 
trees,  posts,  etc. 

TREATMENT. — Tie  the  animal  short,  examine  the  ear  closely  where 
there  is  good  light  and  if  a foreign  body  is  found  remove  it  with  a pair  of 
forceps.  If  the  ear  is  much  inflamed  foment  with  hot  water  and  apply  boric 
acid  or  a weak  lead  lotion  which  is  made  by  dissolving  two  ounces  of  sugar 
of  lead  in  a gallon  of  water. 

LACERATED  EARS. — It  is  not  unusual  for  the  ears  of  cattle  to  be 
torn  and  lacerated  by  dogs. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  wound  is  large  and  the  ear  torn  much,  cut  off 
the  ragged  edges  and  stitch  the  wound  with  catgut  or  silk.  You  will  find 
it  difficult  to  get  a proper  union  of  the  ear  as  the  cartilage  is  of  low  vitality 
and  consequently  it  is  slow  to  unite.  Apply  any  good  home  healing  remedy, 
but  don’t  take  out  the  stitches  too  soon. 


CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 

(Including  Tuberculosis  and  the  Tuberculin  Test,  Foot  and  Mouth  Disease, 
Black-Leg,  Cow-Pox,  Anthrax,  Contagious  Pleura-Pneumonia,  Texas 
or  Southern  Fever,  Etc.) 


TUBERCULOSIS. — Tuberculosis  is  a contagious  disease  attacking  many 
animals  but  perhaps  is  most  common  in  cattle.  It  is  caused  by  germs  or 
bacteria  that  are  always  present  in  an  animal  suffering  with  this  disease. 

CAUSES, — This  disease  is  not  nearly  so  hereditary  as  many  believe 
for  I have  known  many  cows  to  be  consumptive  that  gave  birth  to  perfectly 
sound  calves  which  showed  no  reaction  whatever  from  the  tuberculin  test. 
The  milk  from  diseased  cows  will  infect  not  only  domestic  animals  but  man, 
especially  children  under  eight  years  of  age.  The  germs  are  passed  out 
of  the  body  with  the  excrement  and  are  also  sometimes  discharged  with 
the  mucus  from  the  nose.  There  is  a great  difference  of  opinion  existing 
among  bacteriologists,  physicians  and  veterinarians  as  to  whether  consump- 
tion in  man  and  tuberculosis  in  cattle  are  not  about  the  same  disease;  any- 
how, the  germs  that  cause  consumption  in  man  and  tuberculosis  in  cattle  are 
very  much  alike. 

SYMPTOMS. — As  this  disease  may  attack  almost  any  part  of  the  body, 
in  either  mild  or  severe  form,  it  is  difficult  to  state  what  the  symptoms  are. 
The  lungs  seem  to  be  attacked  most  frequently;  however,  the  liver,  spleen, 
lymphatic  glands,  bones  or  joints  may  be  the  seat  of  this  disease.  When 
the  lungs  are  affected  and  become  badly  diseased  the  animal  falls  away  in 
flesh  although  eating  plenty  of  food ; the  coat  is  rough ; the  eyes  are  somewhat 
sunken  and  the  animal  usually  has  a cough;  but,  strange  to  say,  an  animal 
may  be  badly  affected  and  appear  quite  healthy ; therefore,  the  only  means 
of  making  a correct  diagnosis  is  to  test  with  tuberculin.  The  disease  is  con- 
tracted, no  doubt,  through  wounds,  by  eating  food  or  drinking  water  or 
by  being  inhaled;  also,  sucking  calves  may  get  the  disease  from  drinking 
milk.  The  discharges  from  the  nose  may  dry  and  blow  some  distance  in  the 
form  of  dust  and  be  picked  up  by  other  cattle  and  produce  tuberculosis. 
Every  suspicious  case  should  be  examined  after  death  on  the  farm  or  at  the 
slaughter  house  to  ascertain  if  any  of  the  vital  organs  contain  nodules  or 
lumps  v/hich,  if  cut  open,  show  a yellow  substance  which  seems  to  be  gritty, 
or  if  the  nodule  contains  pus  of  a cheesy  nature,  or  if  the  bunch  be  sort 
of  fibrous.  Very  often  the  disease  appears  outside  of  the  vital  organs,  show- 
ing tumor-like  growths  or  bunches  which,  when  cut  into,  appear  as  above 
described.  These  tubercles  are  sometimes  exceedingly  small  and  in  other 
cases  they  are  very  large.  The  disease  may  be  confined  to  one  small  tubercle 
or  many  of  them  may  be  scattered  throughout  the  body.  The  tubercular 
bunch  or  deposit  is  quite  often  found  in  one  or  more  of  the  lymphatic  glands, 
in  the  throat,  between  the  lungs,  in  the  udder  or  along  the  border  of  the 
bowels.  These  glands  when  healthy  vary  in  size  from  a small  bean  to  a 
large  marble  and  when  cut  open  are  found  to  be  solid  but  when  diseased 
they  are  always  enlarged,  showing  a yellow  material  when  cut  open.  It 

164 


CATTLE— CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


1G5 


is  not  unusual  to  find  tubercles  attached  to  the  pleura  lining  the  ribs,  in  the 
liver,  spleen,  lungs,  womb  or  other  organs  of  the  body. 

TREATMENT. — There  is  no  known  remedy;  however,  when  feeding 
plenty  of  rich,  easily-digested  food  and  allowing  the  animal  to  breathe  pure 
dry  air  it  is  astonishing  how  much  nature  will  do  to  remedy  this  ailment. 
The  best  method  of  preventing  the  disease  if  it  is  not  already  in  your  herd 
is  to  allow  no  animal  to  come  on  your  premises  that  has  not  been  tested  with 
tuberculin  in  the  hands  of  a competent  person,  for  I fully  believe  that  no 
farmer  or  dairyman  or  stock  raiser  can  afford  to  have  tubercular  cattle  as- 
sociating with  healthy  stock.  They  should  be  segregated  and  kept  by  them- 
selves. If  in  emaciated  condition  it  will  not  pay  to  keep  them  but  if  appar- 
ently healthy  and  vigorous  they  should  be  fatted  and  sold  to  a butcher  where 
their  carcasses  can  be  examined  by  either  local  government  meat  inspectors 
or  by  a competent  veterinarian  or  person  who  can  determine  whether  the 
animal  is  fit  for  food  or  not. 

THE  TUBERCULIN  TEST. — The  only  accurate  means  of  detecting 
tuberculosis  in  cattle  is  by  testing  them  with  tuberculin.  The  temperature 
of  the  animals  to  be  tested  should  be  taken  every  two  hours  during  the  day 
to  determine  their  normal  temperature  which  should  be  about  101 V2  de- 
grees; of  course,  it  may  vary  slightly  but  a majority  of  cattle  have  this  tem- 
perature. The  tuberculin  should  be  injected  under  the  skin  in  the  region  of 
the  neck  or  back  of  the  shoulder,  late  in  the  evening.  Eight  hours  after 
the  injection  is  made  commence  again  taking  the  temperature  and  take  it 
every  hour  or  two  during  the  following  day.  If  the  animal  has  the  disease, 
some  time  between  eight  and  twenty  hours  after  the  injection  of  tuberculin 
has  been  made,  the  temperature  will  show  a rise  of  from  two  to  six  degrees 
above  normal  and  then  gradually  recede  towards  evening.  If  the  tempera- 
ture rises  only  a degree'  it  is  not  enough  but  if  a degree  and  a half  it  should 
be  regarded  as  suspicious.  If  the  temperature  does  not  rise  higher  than  the 
highest  point  before  injecting  you  can  safely  believe  your  animal  free  from 
tuberculosis.  The  test  should  never  be  made  when  a cow  is  in  heat  or  suf- 
fering from  any  febrile  ailment ; she  should  not  be  given  large  quantities 
of  cold  water  at  a time  on  the  days  you  are  testing  and  if  a reaction  takes 
place  you  should  be  certain  that  nothing  else  contributed  to  cause  it  other 
than  tuberculosis.  Cows  should  not  be  tested  closer  than  three  or  four  weeks 
before  calving  or  the  same  number  of  weeks  after  calving;  also  keep  in 
mind  that  those  that  suffer  the  least  from  tuberculosis  very  often  react  most, 
while  advanced  and  generalized  cases  may  show  little  or  no  reaction  from 
the  test ; however,  a physical  examination  made  by  an  expert  may  be  suf- 
ficient to  condemn  the  animal.  When  tuberculosis  has  once  gained  a foot- 
hold in  a herd  you  will  find  it  quite  difficult  to  disinfect  and  fumigate  the 
stables  and  premises  thorough  enough  to  prevent  the  cattle  contracting 
the  disease.  Fumigate  with  formaldehyde  or  sulphur  or  use  live  steam  ; also 
spray  with  a three  per  cent,  solution  of  carbolic  acid,  or  one  part  corrosive 
sublimate  and  one  thousand  parts  water  or  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant 
and  fifty  parts  water.  But  even  if  you  destroy  the  infection  in  the  stable 
there  are  many  other  places  about  the  premises  that  may  perhaps  escape  the 
disinfectants. 

FOOT  AND  MOUTH  DISEASE— CONTAGIOUS  ECZEMA.— This  is 
a highly  contagious  fever  of  a specific  nature  marked  by  blisters  in  the 
mouth  and  also  around  the  coronet  of  the  foot  and  between  the  toes.  It  is 


16G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


more  common  in  cattle  than  in  other  domestic  animals;  however,  sheep,  goats 
and  pigs  may  also  suffer  with  it.  This  is  a disease  that  is  not  well 
understood  but  is  doubtless  of  the  germ  variety,  due  to  a specific  organism. 
Fortunately,  it  is  not  prevalent  in  this  country;  however,  it  did  exist  in  the 
New  England  States  during  1902,  but  was  stamped  out.  Another  outbreak 
occurred  in  Michigan  during  the  latter  part  of  1908  and  early  part  of  1909, 
which,  by  strict  quarantine  regulations  enforced  by  the  Bureau  of  Animal 
Industry,  was  also  stamped  out.  As  a rule  the  disease  is  not  by  any  means 
fatal,  but  great  loss  is  sustained  by  stock  falling  off  in  flesh  and  milk  besides 
losses  from  restrictions  of  the  live  stock  trade. 

CAUSES. — It  is  doubtless  due  to  a specific  germ  transmitted  by  direct 
contact,  by  eating  infected  food,  drinking  infected  water  or  being  housed  in 
infected  stables,  cars  or  pens ; or,  it  may  be  taken  from  the  attendant.  Per- 
haps the  contagion  may  be  carried  in  the  air  and  also  the  milk  of  infected 
animals  is  contagious.  The  disease  usually  develops  in  two  or  three  days, 
but  may  not  develop  before  eighteen  or  twenty. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  usually  sets  in  with  a chill  that  is  of  short  duration. 
There  is  an  arched  back,  staring  coat  and  a gaunt  appearance  with  some 
shivering  or  slight  twitching  of  the  muscles.  The  animal  usually  shows 
some  lameness,  some  discharge  from  eye  and  nostril  and  usually  shows  a 
quick  pulse  and  elevated  temperature.  Blisters  show  in  the  mouth,  on  the 
udder  and  about  the  feet.  These  are  filled  with  a watery  sort  of  fluid  but 
soon  burst,  leaving  a raw  surface.  These  blisters  cause  a discharge  from 
the  mouth  which  is  thick  and  ropy.  The  animal  soon  finds  it  difficult  to  eat 
solid  food,  the  feet  frequently  become  very  sore  and  the  lungs  may  become 
affected. 

TREATMENT. — The  majority  of  cases  recover  without  treatment; 
however,  it  is  well  to  assist  nature  by  applying  to  the  sore  mouth,  udder 
and  feet  a lotion  made  from  astringents  or  antiseptics.  Dissolve  one-quarter 
pound  of  alum  or  boric  acid  in  a gallon  of  water  and  wash  the  sores  twice 
a day;  or,  wash  the  mouth  out  with  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  two  hundred 
parts  water  and  apply  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts  water  to  the 
sores  on  the  feet  and  udder  twice  a day.  Or,  dissolve  one-quarter  pound  of 
sugar  of  lead  and  one  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  in  a gallon  of  water  and  apply 
twice  a day.  If  the  bowels  are  costive,  give  epsom  salts  and  if  the  kidneys 
do  not  act  freely,  give  saltpeter  or  citrate  of  potash  and  remember  it  is 
important  to  report  cases  of  this  kind  to  the  proper  authorities  for  their  in- 
vestigation. Your  State  Veterinarian,  your  County  or  City  Board  of  Health 
or  the  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry,  Washington,  D.  C.  are  the  proper  parties 
to  be  notified. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FOOT  AND  MOUTH  DISEASE.— 

1.  General  Treatment. — Give  plenty  of  good  cold  water  and  feed  bran 
mashes.  If  there  is  much  fever  dissolve  an  ounce  of  nitrate  of  potash  in 
each  bucket  of  water  and  give  thirty  drops  of  aconite  every  four  hours. 
Coal-tar  disinfectants  should  be  applied  to  the  feet  twice  a day. 
BLACK-LEG— BLACK  QUARTER.— 

CAUSES. — This  is  an  infectious  disease  produced  by  a bacillus  which 
lives  in  the  soil  of  certain  districts;  besides,  it  also  inhabits  the  bodies  of 
diseased  animals.  Certain  kinds  of  soil  appear  to  suit  this  parasite  and  when 
once  infected  it  usually  remains  so.  Black-leg  at  one  time  was  supposed  to 
be  anthrax  fever  but  that  was  a mistake  for  they  are  two  distinct  and  inde- 


Cx\TTLE— CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


167 


pendent  diseases,  each  being  caused  by  a different  germ.  One  diseased  ani- 
mal does  not  infect  another  only  by  self-inoculation.  The  germ  must  enter 
a wound  in  the  skin  or  mucous  membrane  of  the  body  and  is  most  likely 
to  enter  the  body  through  wounds  or  skin  abrasions  on  the  legs.  When  an 
animal  dies  of  black-leg  it  should  be  burned,  n'ot  buried,  for  the  germs  should 
be  kept  out  of  the  soil. 

SYMPTOMS. — This  disease  is  usually  characterized  by  swellings  on 
the  upper  portion  of  either  one  or  more  quarters  of  the  body.  Shortly  after 
the  animal  is  infected,  a gas  forms  in  the  tissues  beneath  the  skin,  the  gas 
being  produced  by  the  germ.  When  punctured,  a bloody  fluid  with  a bad 
odor  oozes  out.  The  animal  loses  appetite,  has  a high  fever  and  generally 
shows  considerable  lameness. 

TREATMENT. — No  remedy  has  yet  been  discovered.  Cattle  should 
never  be  kept  on  infected  ground  unless  they  have  been  immunized,'  which 
can  be  done  by  vaccination  or  a protective  inoculation.  When  vaccinated, 
cattle  will  not  take  the  disease  within  a year  but  when  calves  have  been 
vaccinated  it  is  a good  plan  to  do  it  over  again  in  eight  or  ten  months.  All 
preventive  medicines  appear  to  fail.  Whenever  an  outbreak  occurs  all  the 
young  animals  should  be  removed  at  once  to  a non-infected  pasture  and  be 
sure  to  supply  them  with  a good  quality  of  water.  Black-leg  vaccine  is  made 
by  heating  the  flesh  of  a calf  that  died  of  the  disease  to  a temperature  that 
weakens  the  germs.  One  kind  of  vaccine  that  is  prepared  requires  only 
one  dose  while  the  other  kind  has  to  be  given  ten  or  twelve  days  apart. 
The  vaccine  is  put  up  in  pill  form  and  also  as  a string  saturated  with  the 
virus.  The  pills  are  forced  under  the  skin  with  a little  gun,  the  string  being 
pulled  in  with  a needle.  The  vaccine  is  also  put.  out  in  powder  form  to  mix 
with  water  and  inject  under  the  skin. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BLACK-LEG.— 

1.  Preventive. — With  three  pounds  of  salt  mix  five  ounces  of  sulphur, 
three  ounces  of  copperas  and  one  and  one-half  ounces  each  of  saltpeter  and 
air-slacked  lime.  Beginning  several  weeks  before  time  for  black-leg  to 
attack  them,  keep  this  before  the  calves  all  the  time. 

2.  Salt  and  Salts. — In  a quart  of  water  dissolve  one-half  teacupful  of 
common  salt  and  a small  teacupful  of  salts.  Repeat  in  five  hours  and  then 
give  once  a day  for  two  or  three  days.  There  is  probably  no  remedy  that 
will  cure  every  case  of  black-leg  but  this  one  is  worth  a trial. 

COW-POX — VARIOLA  VACCINA. — This  is  a contagious  disease 
similar  in  nature  to  small-pox  in  man,  but  of  course  milder.  One  cow  takes 
it  from  another.  Cow-pox  exists  in  herds  all  over  the  world. 

SYMPTOMS. — Small  red  pimples  appear  around  the  teats;  in  a few 
days  they  form  a sort  of  blister  containing  a watery  fluid  which,  if  not  broken, 
dry  and  form  a dry  scab  which  later  scales  off  leaving  the  teat  in  a normal 
state.  The  animal  generally  has  some  fever. 

TREATMENT. — About  all  the  treatment  required  is  to  give  the  animal 
good  care,  laxative  food  and  some  saltpeter  in  the  drinking  water  and  apply 
zinc  ointment  to  the  sores  once  a day.  I often  apply  one  part  carbolic  acid 
and  twenty  parts  sweet  oil  to  the  sores  twice  daily. 

ANTHRAX — SPLENIC  APOPLEXY. — Anthrax,  or  splenic  apoplexy, 
is  a disease  confined  mostly  to  cattle  and  is  one  of  the  most  fatal  diseases  to 
which  they  are  subject.  It  is  due  to  micro-organisms,  the  anthrax  bacilli, 
which  can  readily  be  seen  under  the  microscope  by  examining  the  blood 


168 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


taken  from  either  the  spleen  or  the  ear,  but  this  examination  should  be  made 
before  the  carcass  decomposes.  The  disease  comes  on  suddenly,  is  of  short 
duration  and  usually  terminates  fatally  and  is  readily  communicated  to  man 
and  other  animals. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  may  appear  well  at  night  and  be  dead  the 
next  morning,  or  the  disease  may  develop  more  gradually  with  high  tempera- 
ture, loss  of  appetite,  suspended  rumination,  a chill  followed  by  perspiration, 
a rapid  and  weak  pulse  and  scanty  and  highly  colored  urine.  There  is  great 
weakness,  the  animal  walks  with  a staggering  gait  and  the  breathing  is 
quick  and  difficult.  The  brain  is  generally  affected,  there  is  frothing  at  the 
mouth  and  the  animal  often  bellows  with  pain  and  very  often  dies  in 
convulsions.  . 

TREATMENT. — When  the  disease  is  fully  developed  medical  remedies 
have  little  effect,  nature  seemingly  having  to  do  it  all ; however,  it  is  well 
to  isolate  the  animal  and  give  antiseptics  such  as  carbolic  acid  or  creosote 
in  one-half-dram  doses  Avell  diluted  in  water  and  freely  use  disinfectants 
such  as  coal-tar  preparations.  A cathartic  of  linseed  oil  should  be  given  and 
the  food  and  water  supply  should  be  changed.  In  all  cases  report  the  out- 
break to  your  State  Veterinarian  or  to  the  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry  at 
Washington,  D.  C.  The  carcass  should  not  be  opened  to  allow  the  blood  to 
spill,  but  should  be  buried  four  feet  under  the  ground  or  burned  and  the 
hide  should  go  with  the  carcass. 

CONTAGIOUS  PLEURA-PNEUMONIA.— This  is  perhaps  one  of  the 
most  fatal  ailments  cattle  are  heir  to  and  consists  in  an  inflammation  of  the 
lungs  and  pleura.  The  exact  nature  of  the  contagion  has  never  been  fully 
determined.  The  disease  usually  develops  in  from  three  weeks  to  three 
months  after  exposure.  Eortunately,  the  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry  stamped 
out  this  disease  successfully  and  unless  it  is  brought  here  again  from  some 
other  country  we  shall  perhaps  not  be  troubled  with  it. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  high  temperature,  loss  of  appetite,  staring  coat, 
chills,  shrinkage  in  milk  and  the  passing  of  small  quantities  of  highly  colored 
urine.  There  is  tenderness  over  the  lungs  and  the  cough  increases.  There 
is  quick  breathing,  a pointing  out  of  the  nose  and  an  arching  of  the  back 
and  the  hind  legs  are  drawn  under  the  body  and  the  elbows  kept  well  out. 
At  first  the  chest  sounds  clear  but  later  a dry  crackling  noise  is  heard  which 
later  changes  to  a dull  sound.  The  disease  seems  to  spread  more  rapidly 
during  hot  than  cold  weather. 

TREATMENT. — It  can  perhaps  be  safely  stated  that  fifty  per  cent,  of 
the  sick  animals  recover.  On  account  of  its  seriousness  it  should  be  pre- 
vented if  possible.  No  person  should  be  allowed  to  come  from  a diseased 
herd  and  mix  with  healthy  stock.  When  the 'disease  breaks  out  in  a herd  the 
safest  way  is  to  destroy  them,  burn  their  carcasses,  disinfect  thoroughly  and 
keep  no  more  cattle  on  the  premises  for  six  months  or  a year. 

TEXAS  FEVER— SPANISH  OR  SPLENIC  FEVER— SOUTHERN 
FEVER— TICK  FEVER. — This  is  a fever  caused  by  a microscopic  para- 
site that  is  transmitted  from  southern  to  northern  cattle  by  means  of  the 
southern  tick.  Southern  cattle  come  here  in  summer  from  tick  infested  dis- 
tricts and  infect  our  pastures  by  the  female  tick’s  dropping  off  the  cattle  and 
laying  a great  many  eggs  which  mature  and,  in  from  two  to  six  or  seven  weeks, 
crawl  on  to  our  native  cattle  and  bury  their  mouths  in  the  skin ; in  this  man- 


CATTLE— CONTAGIOUS  DISEASES. 


169 


ner  the  disease  is  transmitted.  Northern  cattle  taken  south  to  infected  dis- 
tricts show  the  disease  in  ten  or  fifteen  days. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite,  high  fever,  suspended  rumina- 
tion, weakness  and  trembling.  The  head  is  held  low,  the  bowels  are  costive, 
the  urine  is  red  and  young  ticks  can  be  found  where  the, skin  is  thin  but  you 
may  need  a magnifying  glass  to  see  them  plainly.  After  death  the  blood 
will  be  found  to  be  very  thin  and  not  to  clot  readily  and  the  gall  bladder 
will  be  found  full  and  the  spleen  greatly  enlarged.  The  liver  is  enlarged  and 
quite  yellow  in  color  and  the  kidneys  are  somewhat  congested  and  the 
bladder  full  of  red  urine. 

TREATMENT. — Good  nursing  and  feeding  the  animal  plenty  of  easily- 
digested  food  will  help  save  its  life.  Tonics  such  as  quinine,  gentian,  cod- 
liver  oil  and  alcoholic  stimulants  help  brace  the  animal  against  the  debilitating 
effects  of  these  ticks.  When  first  discovered,  pick  off  as  many  of  the  ticks 
as  possible  and  kill  the  rest  with  tick-killing  dip.  If  the  bowels  are  costive 
give  a small  dose  of  epsom  salts.  Eggs  and  milk  with  brandy  or  whiskey  added 
help  revive  these  cases.  Cattle  in  the  southern  infested  pastures  become  im- 
mune to  this  fever  by  ticks  diseasing  the  calves  in  a mild  way  which  pre- 
vents their  ever  having  another  attack.  But  to  immunize  northern  cattle, 
they  require  to  be  vaccinated  with  the  blood  of  a sick  animal,  which  produces 
the  disease  in  mild  form,  thereby  rendering  them  immune  to  the  disease. 
Cattle  can  be  vaccinated  a time  or  two  without  very  much  risk  and  at  small 
expense  and  this  should  be  done  before  they  are  taken  to  infested  parts  of 
the  country.  Cold  frosty  weather  kills  the  ticks.  This  disease  has  been 
heard  of  since  1814  and  called  by  many  different  names  and  is  no  doubt 
caused  by  an  organism  which  lives  within  the  red  corpuscles  and  breaks 
them  up  but  how  they  get  there  is  hard  to  tell. 

INFLUENZA  — PINK  EYE— EPIZOOTIC  — LA  GRIPPE.  — (See 
Horse  Department.”) 


VARIOUS  DISEASES. 

(Including  Lump  Jaw,  Foot-Rot,  Founder,  Wounds  of  all  Kinds,  Screw 
Worms,  Broken  Bones,  Hydrophobia,  Apoplexy,  Epilepsy,  Dropsy, 
Rheumatism,  Ringing  Bulls,  Dehorning,  Diseases  of  the  Heart,  Blood  and 
Veins,  Etc.) 


LUMB  JAW — ACTINOMYCOSIS. — This  disease  is  due  to  the  presence 
of  vegetable  parasites  which  are  known  by  the  name  “ actinomyces.”  It  has 
been  known  to  affect  man,  sometimes  the  horse  and  other  animals,  but  it 
generally  affects  the  ox. 

CAUSES. — It  is  always  due  to  a vegetable  organism  that  makes  its  way 
into  the  tissues,  producing  a lump  or  tumor  on  some  part  of  the  body,  gen- 
erally affecting  the  jaw  but  may  affect  the  tongue  and  is  sometimes  found 
in  the  lungs.  This  fungus  grows  on  plants  and  very  often  gains  entrance  to 
the  body  through  wounds  about  the  head  or  mouth  or  even  other  parts  of 
the  body.  This  disease  should  not  be  called  strictly  contagious  for  the  only 
way  a diseased  animal  can  infect  another  is  by  pus  dropping  on  grass,  as  this 
fungus  seemingly  regains  vitality  and  when  eaten  seems  to  disease  others ; 
therefore,  an  animal  suffering  from  this  disease  and  discharging  pus  should 
not  be  allowed  to  run  on  pasture  where  other  cattle  graze. 

SYMPTOMS. — Usually  the  first  symptoms  are:  a refusal  of  food,  an  irri- 
tation of  the  tongue,  disinclination  to  masticate  food  and  very  often  a profuse 
flow  of  saliva,  a disagreeable  odor  from  the  breath  and  a swelling,  such 
as  would  result  from  an  injury.  When  pus  comes  from  the  bunch  it  is 
usually  sticky  and  contains  small  hard  yellow  particles  which  can  be  seen 
readily  by  spreading  on  a clean  glass.  This  disease  appears  to  act  rather 
peculiarly  for  in  some  cases  it  progresses  rapidly  and  in  other  cases  quite 
slowly.  To  be  sure  that  it  is  a case  of  actinomycosis  the  pus  should  be 
examined  with  a microscope  to  find  the  fungus. 

TREATMENT. — In  a majority  of  cases,  if  treated  in  time,  this  disease 
is  curable  but,  if  it  has  become  chronic  and  the  bones  affected  very  much, 
they  are  cured  with  difficulty;  however,  it  is  well  to  make  the  effort.  Simple 
home  remedies  cut  little  figure  in  the  treatment  of  this  ailment.  From  one  to 
four  drams  of  iodide  of  potassium  dissolved  in  water  should  be  given  as  a 
drench  twice  a day  until  a perceptible  improvement  is  noticed,  then  less  of 
the  medicine  should  be  given  until  a recovery  takes  place.  The  best  external 
application  is  red  iodide  of  mercury,  one  part  and  lard,  four  parts,  applied 
every  few  days  as  the  case  demands.  I have  obtained  very  good  results  by 
cutting  the  tumor  open  and  applying  caustics  and  there  are  none  better  than 
caustic  potash.  After  the  inside  of  the  tumor  sloughs  out  apply  either  tincture 
of  iodine  or  iodine  ointment.  I have  also  tried  some  of  the  lump  jaw  cures 
that  are  on  the  market  and  they  have  given  me  fairly  good  results.  It  is 
well  to  keep  in  mind  that  this  ailment  can  be  communicated  to  other  live 
stock ; therefore,  it  is  often  wise  to  fatten  and  dispose  of  them  as  in  the 
majority  of  cases  the  flesh  of  an  animal  of  this  kind  is  fit  for  food. 

170 


A SIIMPLE  WAY  TO  THROW  A COW. 

Note  that  but  one  i-0])c  is  used. 
(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


CATTLE— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


171 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LUMP  JAW.— 

1.  Air-Slacked  Lime. — Cut  the  lump  open  and  put  in  all  the  air-slacked 
lime  it  will  hold.  This  will  eat  out  the  diseased  parts  and  effect  a cure. 

2.  Iodine. — The  lump  should  be  cut  open  and  cleansed  with  a solution 
of  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  twenty  parts  water  and  then  half  an  ounce  of 
tincture  of  iodine  should  be  injected. 

3.  Iodide  of  Potash. — Give  one  dram  of  iodide  of  potash  once  a day  for 
ten  or  twenty  days,  discontinue  for  a week  and  then  repeat.  The  potash 
should  be  given  in  the  drinking  water.  This  is  one  of  the  most  effective 
remedies  known  for  lump  jaw. 

4.  Kerosene  and  Iodine. — Mix  one  part  of  iodine  with  two  parts  of  kero- 
sene and  apply  frequently  when  the  lump  first  makes  its  appearance. 

LUMPS  ON  THE  JAW. — A lump  on  the  jaw  is  very  often  caused  by  a 
blow  or  by  one  animal’s  hooking  another  or  by  being  kicked  by  a horse.  The 
bunch  may  be  actinomycosis  (lump  jaw),  or  it  may  be  the  result  of  a dis- 
eased tooth  or  a cap  crowding  against  the  cheek  and  causing  an  inflammation 
of  the  jaw. 

TREATMENT. — Try  to  ascertain  the  cause  and  if  it  is  the  result  of  an 
injury  or  even  if  it  be  incipient  lump  jaw  apply  iodine  ointment  which  can 
be  obtained  from  any  druggist.  If  caused  by  a tooth,  treat  as  I have  suggested 
elsewhere.  When  applying  iodine  ointment  or  tincture  of  iodine,  daily  appli- 
cations should  be  made  for  a few  days,  then  the  medicine  may  be  used  less 
frequently. 

EXOSTOSIS  OF  THE  JAW.— (See  “ Horse  Department”) 

FOOT-R9T— FOUL  IN  THE  FOOT.— This  is  a diseased  condition  of 
the  foot  showing  itself  mostly  between  the  toes  and  in  the  back  part  of  the 
heel  and  in  the  coronet. 

CAUSES. — It  is  generally  caused  by  stable  filth  or  by  some  foreign  body 
lodging  between  the  toes  or  by  allowing  the  toes  to  grow  too  long  and  out 
of  shape.  In  cattle  it  is  not  generally  contagious  but  it  frequently  is  in 
sheep. 

SYMPTOMS. — Generally,  the  first  symptom  noticed  is  lameness.  There 
is  swelling  of  the  coronet,  swelling  between  the  claws  and  very  often  some 
sloughing  and  if  the  case  has  been  neglected  it  is  often  deep  seated  and  sup- 
purating under  the  wall. 

TREATMENT. — If  you  suspect  there  is  pus  under  the  wall,  cut  through 
and  liberate  it,  applying  peroxide  of  hydrogen ; a few  minutes  later  apply  one 
part  carbolic  acid  and  ten  parts  water,  not  forgetting  the  importance  of  keep- 
ing the  animal  in  a clean  dry  stable.  After  the  foot  ceases  to  discharge  pus, 
apply  pine  tar  and  oakum  and  bandage  arourKl  the  foot  to  protect  it  from  dirt. 
Feed  the  animal  on  cooling  laxative  diet  and  as  the  animal  begins  to  recover 
it  is  not  necessary  to  use  the  carbolic  lotion  stronger  than  one  part  to  thirty 
of  water.  I have  obtained  good  results  by  applying  the  following  lotion : — 
Dissolve  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar  of  lead  and  two  ounces  of  carbolic  acid 
in  a gallon  of  water  and  apply  daily.  This  is  hardly  active  enough,  however, 
for  bad  cases  during  the  early  treatment.  If  the  toes  have  grown  out  long  they 
should  be  shortened.  If  the  feet  are  much  inflamed,  poultices  will  make  the 
animal  more  comfortable. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SORE  FEET,  FOUL  IN  THE 
FOOT  OR  FOOT  EVIL.— 

I.  Linseed  Oil.  Lard  and  Carbolic  Acid. — Mix  one  ounce  of  carbolic  acid 


172 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


with  two  ounces  each  of  linseed  oil  and  lard.  Before  applying,  the  foot  should 
be  thoroughly  cleaned  by  drawing  a rope  between  the  toes. 

2.  Blue  Vitriol. — Pare  the  hoof  and  then  bathe  with  a solution  of  four 
ounces  of  blue  vitriol  in  a pint  of  warm  water.  Finely  pulverized  blue  vitriol 
may  be  applied  dry  if  preferred.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  foul  foot  of 
cattle. 

3.  Butter  of  Antimony. — Clean  the  foot  and  apply  butter  of  antimony. 
Repeat  in  a week  or  ten  days  if  the  first  application  does  not  complete  the 
cure.  If  it  makes  the  foot  too  sore  apply  some  lard  or  linseed  oil. 

4.  Turpentine. — Thoroughly  clean  the  foot  and  apply  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine. This  should  be  applied  early. 

5.  Borax,  Calomel  and  Blue  Vitriol. — Mix  half  an  ounce  of  borax  with 
two  ounces  each  of  calomel  and  blue  vitriol  and  apply  twice  a week.  The 
foot  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  each  time  before  applying. 

FOUNDER — LAMINITIS. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  sensitive 
tissues  of  the  foot,  usually  affecting  the  front  feet  but  sometimes  all  four  feet. 

CAUSES. — It  is  caused  by  traveling  a long  distance  on  rough,  hard  roads 
and  by  over-feeding  and  it  sometimes  follows  calving. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  walks  sore  and  is  inclined  to  lie  down  and 
when  traveling  attempts  to  carry  as  much  of  the  weight  of  the  body  on  the 
hind  legs  as  possible,  especially  when  the  forefeet  only  are  affected. 

TREATMENT.— Stand  the  animal  in  a tub  of  warm  water  if  occurring  in 
the  winter  season,  or  in  cold  water  or  wet  clay  in  the  summer.  Give  a full 
dose  of  epsom  salts,  also  give  a tablespoonful  of  saltpeter  three  times  a day. 
When  the  animal  is  feverish  give  ten  or  fifteen  drops  of  fluid  extract  of 
aconite  and  if  in  much  pain  give  a teaspoonful  of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna 
or  a tablespoonful  or  two  of  laudanum  two  or  three  times  a day. 

FOOT  SORENESS. — This  is  a very  common  ailment  in  cattle  and  is 
generally  the  result  of  filth,  over-feeding  or  traveling  on  rough,  uneven  roads 
or  running  in  rough  lots.  Stand  in  either  hot  or  cold  water  or  poultice  the 
feet  with  wet  clay  or  apply  antiphlogistine.  Also  apply  wet  swabs  to  the 
hoofs  and  if  you  a're  able  to  determine  the  cause,  remove  it. 

LOSS  OF  HOOF. — The  loss  of  a hoof  is  usually  the  result  of  an  acci- 
dent or  injury  of  some  kind,  pulling  off  either  or  both  claws. 

TREATMENT. — After  applying  peroxide  of  hydrogen  cover  the  foot  with 
pine-tar,  covering  that  with  oakum  and  a bandage.  It  will  not  be  necessary  to 
dress  the  foot  more  than  two  or  three  times,  providing  the  foot  is  clean  when 
first  dressed  and  the  coating  of  tar  and  oakum  is  sufficient  to  protect  the  foot 
from  wet  and  dirt.  There  are  many  healing  remedies  that  you  may  have  on 
hand  that  will  answer  almost  as  Well  as  what  I have  prescribed.  It  is  import- 
ant to  keep  the  foot  clean  and  free  from  infection. 

SPAVIN  IN  CATTLE.— This  is  not  nearly  so  common  an  ailment  in 
cattle  as  in  horses  but  work  oxen  and  cows  that  are  obliged  to  travel  on  hard 
roads  do  sometimes  have  bone  spavin,  causing  a bony  enlargement  on  the 
lower  and  inside  part  of  the  hock  joint. 

TREx\TMENT. — Rest,  blisters  and  firing,  the  same  as  are  recommended 
for  horses,  are  proper  treatment  for  cattle. 

SPRAIN  OF  THE  STIFLE  JOINT.  — (See“  Horse  Department.”) 

DISLpCATION  OF  STIFLE  IN  CATTLE.— The  stifle  bone  sometimes 
becomes  dislocated  in  cattle  and  should  be  treated  the  same  as  for  horses. 
(See  “ Horse  Department.”) 


CATTLE—VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


1T3 


SPRAINS. — Sprains  of  Tendons,  Ligaments  and  Muscles  are  treated  in 
the  Horse  Department,” 

WOUNDS. — Wounds  on  cattle  should  be  treated  much  the  same  as 
those  on  horses ; therefore,  I suggest  that  you  look  up  the  treatment  for 
wounds  in  the  “ Horse  Department.”  However,  it  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that 
every  wound  should  be  examined  closely  at  first  to  ascertain  whether  or  not 
there  is  any  foreign  body  in  it.  If  there  is,  remove  it,  pour  on  a small  quan- 
tity of  peroxide  of  hydrogen  or  one  part  of  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts  of 
water  or  one  part  of  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  thirty  parts  of  water.  Or,  dis- 
solve one  ounce  of  alum  or  the  same  quantity  of  sugar  of  lead  or  sulphate 
of  zinc  in  a quart  of  water  and  apply  to  wounds  two  or  three  times  a day. 
Any  of  the  above  home  remedies  'will  answer  very  well.  A very  good  healing 
powder  is  made  of  equal  parts  of  iodoform,  powdered  alum  and  boric  acid, 
but  remember  that  for  wounds  to  do  well  the  animal  should  be  kept  in  a clean 
place  and  the  wounds  should  be  kept  clean  and  protected  from  contaminated 
influences.  It  is  not  always  necessary  to  cover  a wound  with  oakum  or  ab- 
sorbent cotton  or  .tar  bandages  but  as  a rule  when  they  are  applied  properly 
a wound  heals  more  rapidly.  When  it  is  necessary  to  stitch  a wound  it  should 
be  done  with  clean  sewing  material — silk,  linen,  catgut  or  any  of  the  sewing 
materials  that  are  sold  for  human  practice.  Of  course  yon  should  use  the 
heaviest,  or  two  or  three  thicknesses  and  bring  the  edges  of  the  wound  as 
close  and  even  as  it  is  possible.  Take  out  the  stitches  as  soon  as  you  believe 
a union  of  the  tissues  has  taken  place. 

BANDAGING  AND  STITCHING  WOUNDS.— In  case  of  wounds  on 
the  legs  a light  bandage  or  a strip  of  adhesive  plaster  wound  around  the  leg 
will  hold  the  edges  of  a wound  together  almost  as  well  as  stitches.  When 
stitches  are  required,  either  silk  or  catgut  should  be  used ; the  silk  holds 
better  but  of  course  will  not  be  absorbed  as  catgut  will.  The  silk  stitches  need 
to  be  taken  out.  (See  “ Wounds  ” in  both  this  and  the  “ Horse  Department.”) 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SORES  AND  FOUL  FLESH.— 

1.  Oil  of  Vitriol. — Cleanse  the  parts  with  water  and  then  bathe  with 
half  a teaspoonful  of  oil  of  vitriol  diluted  in  half  a teacupful  of  water. 

SCREW  WORMS  IN  WOUNDS— MAGGOTS  IN  WOUNDS.— AVhen- 
ever  a wound  is  neglected  during  hot  weather  it  is  liable  to  be  inhabited  by 
screw  worms  or  maggots.  Apply  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts 
water  or  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  to  thirty  parts  water  or  apply  peroxide 
of  hydrogen,  then  apply  equal  parts  powdered  alum,  oxide  of  zinc  and  iodo- 
form. Sometimes,  dropping  in  turpentine  not  only  kills  the  maggots  but  stimu- 
lates a healthy  action.  Other  fairly  good  remedies  are  one  part  bi-chloride  of 
mercury  and  five  hundred  parts  water  or  one  part  chloride  of  zinc  and  five 
hundred  parts  water.  Or,  apply  equal  parts  of  iodoform,  powdered  alum  and 
boric  acid.  Wounds  of  this  kind  should  be  treated  twice  a day  and  should  be 
covered  with  oakum.  In  summer  apply  pine-tar  as  soon  as  the  sore  ceases 
to  suppurate  and  this  will  keep  the  flies  away. 

AIR  UNDER  THE  SKIN. — Frequently,  following  a wound,  air  makes 
its  way  into  the  tissues  beneath  the  skin,  giving  rise  to  an  enormous  swelling. 
Tapping  on  the  skin  with  the  fingers  produces  a crackling  noise  and  drum- 
like sound. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  animal  quiet  and  make  large  wounds  through 
the  skin  in  order  to  let  out  the  air;  also  hand  rub  the  parts. 


174 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


WOUNDS  OF  THE  LIPS.— 

CAUSES. — These  are  caused  by  coming  in  contact  with  nails,  barbed  wire, 
splinters  on  boards  and  sometimes  by  blows.  I have  known  of  swollen  lips 
being  the  result  of  a snake  bite. 

SYMPTOMS. — External  wounds  are  of  course  easily  seen  but  the  lips 
may  be  wounded  on  the  inside  by  the  animal’s  picking  up  pieces  of  glass  or 
foreign  bodies  that  are  sharp  and  uneven ; therefore,  in  making  an  examina- 
tion, the  inside  of  the  lips  should, be  examined  closely. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  lips  are  only  bruised  with  a dull  substance  and 
there  is  no  open  wound,  apply  simple  home  remedies,  such  as  hot  or  cold 
water  or  one  part  witch  hazel  and  two  parts  water.  Or,  dissolve  one  ounce 
of  borax  in  a quart  of  cold  water  or  put  four  ounces  of  fluid  extract  of  arnica 
into  a quart  of  cold  water  and  apply  to  the  lips  four  or  five  times  daily.  If 
you  suspect  that  a snake  bite  is  the  cause,  give  not  less  than  one-half  pint 
of  whiskey  several  times  a day  for  a day  or  two.  Nearly  all  home  healing 
remedies  will  be  found  useful  in  treating  wounded  lips. 

INJURIES  TO  EYE.— (See  “ Diseases  of  Eye  and  Ear.”) 

INJURIES  TO  EAR.— (See  “ Diseases  of  Eye  and  Ear.”) 

FRACTURES— BROKEN  BONES. — A fracture  is  usually  the  result  of 
an  injury  and  the  proper  treatment  for  such  is  to  place  the  broken  bone  in  its 
original  position  and  if  held  there  for  a few  weeks  a bony  union  usually  takes 
place;  however,  in  old  animals  this  may  not  be  the  case  and  when  the  bones 
move  and  are  not  kept  in  place  a fibrous  union  occurs  which  is  not  nearly 
so  satisfactory  as  if  a bony  union  had  taken  place.  There  are  many  ways  in 
which  bones  may  be  held  in  position  by  bandages  of  various  kinds.  The  most 
satisfactory  plan  is  to  use  prepared  plaster  of  Paris  bandages ; the  directions 
go  with  them  and  they  are  not  expensive.  These  may  be  applied  to  fractures 
of  the  limbs.  Splints  of  card  board,  wood  or  whale  bone  wrapped  with 
cotton  and  held  on  with  bandages  do  very  well.  When  the  animal  is  kept  on 
foot  a temporary  sling  should  be  used  for  a few  weeks. 

HIP  JOINT  LAMENESS.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

HIPPED— FRACTURE  OF  THE  HIP  BONE.— 

CAUSES. — This  ailment  is  usually  the  result  of  an  accident  by  rushing 
through  a narrow  door  or  falling  or  being  kicked,  striking  the  point  of  the 
hip  and  breaking  the  bone.  This  kind  of  a fracture  is  not  very  dangerous  for 
either  a fibrous  or  bony  union  takes  place,  leaving  the  point  of  the  hip  down 
and  in. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  animal  quiet  in  a standing  position  until  the 
bones  unite,  which  requires  four  or  five  weeks.  Dissolve  one-quarter  pound 
of  sugar  of  lead  in  a gallon  of  water,  adding  eight  ounces  of  fluid  extract  of 
opium  and  apply  to  sore  parts  twice  a day;  or  apply  spirits  of  camphor.  If 
the  bone  does  not  unite  it  will  perhaps  produce  an  abscess  and  the  detached 
piece  should  be  removed  and  the  end  of  the  bone  made  smooth.  In  some 
cases  it  is  not  necessary  to  treat  them  for  if  the  bone  is  held  in  position  by 
the  muscles  they  get  well  without  treatment. 

BITES  OF  INSECTS  AND  SNAKES. — There  are  too  many  varieties 
of  insects  and  too  many  kinds  of  snakes  for  me  to  speak  of  each  one  separately ; 
therefore,  I shall  give  you  general  treatment  for  all  kinds  that  have  come 
under  my  observation. 

TREATMENT. — For  insect  bites  apply  lead  lotion  which  is  made  by 
dissolving  one-half  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  in  a quart  of  water  and,  if  the  swell- 


CATTLE— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


175 


ing  produces  much  pain,  add  one-fourth  part  laudanum.  Or,  apply  equal  parts 
of  aqua  ammonia  and  sweet  oil,  or  some  camphorated  oil  and,  if  the  animal 
is  very  dull  or  dumpish,  give  some  whiskey  or  alcohol  every  two  or  three 
hours.  In  case  of  snake  bites,  either  touch  the  sore  with  caustic  or  the  point 
of  a ret  hot  iron.  In  many  cases  I have  thought  that  tincture  of  iodine  gave 
as  good  results  as  any  drug  I had  ever  used. 

HYDROPHOBIA — RABIES. — This  is  an  infectious  disease  caused  by 
an  invisible  organism  which  is  transmitted  from  one  animal  to  another  usu- 
ally by  a bite  when  suffering  from  the  disease  or  by  direct  inoculation.  This 
ailment  is  most  common  in  the  dog,  perhaps  on  account  of  dogs  running  at 
large  and  biting  others.  The  dog  shows  two  forms  of  rabies — furious  and 
dumb,  the  dumb  being  much  the  more  common.  In  furious  rabies  the  animal 
seeks  a dark  place  for  a day  or  two,  gradually  becoming  more  restless,  drink- 
ing lots  of  water,  eating  sticks,  stones  and  other  rubbish  and  some  dogs  travel 
many  miles  from  home  and  return  to  die  from  exhaustion  or  paralysis  after 
biting  many  animals.  During  their  journey  they  are  far  more  likely  to  bite 
other  animals  than  man.  In  the  dumb  form  the  animal  seeks  dark  places, 
becoming  nervous.  The  throat  and  lower  jaw  become  paralyzed,  the  lower 
jaw  dropping  and  remaining  open  and  the  voice  changing  from  a bark  to  a 
howl.  When  in  this  condition  they  are  unable  to  bite  a person ; however,  they 
sometimes  change  to  a more  furious  state  and  bite.  In  the  horse  the  symp- 
toms are  restlessness,  unusual  violence,  kicking  and  biting  and  very 
often  the  showing  of  sexual  excitement.  I have  known  horses  with  rabies  to 
eat  a hind  leg  almost  completely  off.  The  disease  usually  develops  in  from 
eight  to  twenty-one  days ; however,  it  may  not  develop  for  several  months. 
It  usually  runs  its  course  in  from  two  to  eight  or  ten  days  and  terminates  in 
death.  As  this  disease  advances  cattle  become  unusually  excitable  and  vicious 
and  suffer  from  spasms  and  appear  to  suffer  a great  deal  of  pain  during  the 
later  stages  of  the  disease  and  show  partial  paralysis  of  the  hind  quarters. 

TREATMENT. — As  there  is  no  curative  remedy  the  treatment  should  be 
preventive.  If  bitten  by  a dog,  burn  the  wound  with  a red  hot  iron,  or  with 
caustic  to  destroy  the  infection.  The  preventive  treatment  used  in  man  is 
far  too  expensive  to  be  used  on  animals. 

CEREBRO-SPINAL  MENINGITIS.— (See  “Horse  Department.”) 
VERTIGO— BLIND  STAGGERS— FALLING  FITS.— (See  “Horse 
Department.”) 

APOPLEXY. — This  ailment  is  usually  the  result  of  congestion  or  stag- 
nation of  blood  in  the  brain  or  of  rupture  of  some  small  blood  vessel  which 
causes  a clot  that  produces  pressure  on  a portion  of  the  brain. 

CAUSES. — The  causes  are  high  feeding  and  under  exercising;  or,  exertion 
in  excessively  hot  weather,  especially  if  the  animal  is  very  fleshy. 

SYMPTOMS. — Apoplexy  develops  suddenly,  the  pupil  of  the  eye  is  al- 
ways dilated  and  the  animal  breathes  heavily.  In  some  cases  only  a portion 
of  the  body  is  affected. 

TREx\TMENT. — In  fleshy  animals  I believe  in  blood-letting,  taking  away 
not  less  than  two  gallons.  Give  from  one  to  two  ounces  of  bromide  of  potash 
every  two  hours  or  the  same  quantity  of  hypo-sulphite  of  soda  and  as  a rule 
from  one  to  two  pounds  of  epsom  salts  should  be  given  to  open  the  bowels. 
If  the  animal  is  in  a comatose  condition,  pour  the  medicine  through  a rubber 
tube  with  a funnel  for  there  is  danger  in  giving  it  as  a drench  out  of  a bottle. 

SUNSTROKE— HEAT  EXHAUSTION.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 


176 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK.  ' 


LOCKJAW— TETANUS.— (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

CHOREA. — (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

FITS — EPILEPSY. — No  person  has  ever  been  able  to  tell  what  causes 
epileptic  fits ; however,  they  are  claimed  to  be  caused  by  some  germ  or  or- 
ganism or  diseased  condition  of  the  blood.  They  follow  teething,  worms,  a 
torpid  condition  of  the  liver  and  chronic  indigestion. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  disease  sets  in  suddenly  followed  by  a convulsive 
spasm. 

TREATMENT.— Try  to  learn  the  cause  and  remove  it  by  treating  for 
such  an  ailment.  If  worms  are  the  cause,  treat  for  them  and  if  the  teeth,  treat 
them  and  if  the  bowels  are  costive,  give  laxatives.  If  caused  by  chronic  indi- 
gestion, treat  the  stomach  and  liver. 

PARALYSIS. — (See  “Horse  Department.”) 

DISEASE  OF  THE  SPLEEN. — It  is  so  puzzling  to  tell  when  an  animal 
suffers  from  disease  of  the  spleen  that  it  is  hardly  worth  considering  as  a 
cattle  ailment.  Therefore,  about  all  we  can  do  is  to  treat  what  symptoms 
they  show  and  feed  cooling,  laxative  food,  keeping  the  bowels  and  kidneys 
active.  It  is  also  important  to  exercise  the  animal  some  every  day. 

MYELITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  SPINAL  CORD.— (See 
“ Horse  Department.”) 

DROPSY  OF  THE  BELLY — ASCITES. — Dropsy  is  not  a disease  but 
a result  of  other  ailments  such  as  peritonitis,  diseases  of  the  liver  and  debility 
following  a lack  of  proper  nutrition. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a general  dullness;  an  increase  of  size  in  belly, 
especially  the  lower  part ; a paleness  of  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  mouth 
and  eye ; a loss  of  appetite  and  an  irregular  rumination  of  food.  By  tapping 
the  abdomen  with  the  ends  of  the  fingers  a dull  sound  is  produced  and  if  the 
hand  is  passed  into  the  abdominal  cavity  through  the  bowel,  water  can  be 
felt ; besides,  the  fluctuation  can  sometimes  be  determined  by  pressing  the 
right  flank.  When  there  is  dropsy,  the  shape  of  the  lower  portion  of  the  belly 
seems  to  differ  from  its  shape  in  all  other  ailments. 

TREATMENT. — Feed  a good  quality  of  nutritious  food  and  give  one 
ounce  of  ground  gentian,  one  dram  of  ground  mix  vomica  and  one-half  ounce 
of  nitrate  of  potash  at  a dose  in  feed  three  times  a day.  The  bowels  and  kid- 
neys should  be  kept  active.  When  the  effusion  is  great  I never  hesitate  to  tap 
the  animal,  using,  of  course,  a trocar  and  canula.  The  opening  should  be 
made  four  or  five  inches  back  of  the  navel  on  the  under  side  of  the  abdomen. 
In  performing  this  operation  the  trocar  must  be  pushed  only  through  the  ab- 
dominal wall  for  if  pushed  further  you  may  puncture  a bowel  and  cause  the 
death  of  the  animal. 

TAPPING  THE  BELLY. — This  is  done  to  empty  the  abdominal  cavity 
of  water  as  in  cases  of  ascites.  Make  an  incision  through  the  skin  just  back 
of  the  navel  and  insert  the  trocar,  leaving  the  canula  in  until  the  fluid  all 
runs  out,  then  withdraw  the  instrument.  It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  oper- 
ate more  than  once.  Be  sure  that  the  instrument  is  clean  before  it  is  used. 

WATER  IN  THE  CHEST— HYDROTHORAX.— This  is  not  a disease 
but  is  a result  of  other  ailments.  An  accumulation  of  water  takes  place  in  the 
chest  and  this  condition  is  generally  found  following  a bad  case  of  pleurisy. 

SYMPTOMS. — Whenever  water  commences  to  accumulate  in  the  chest 
the  worst  symptoms  of  pleurisy  seem  to  somewhat  subside.  Here  is  where 
the  veterinarian  and  stockman  are  often  deceived  but  after  a short  time  the 


CATTLE-VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


177 


animal  is  worse  and  soon  shows  it.  The  nostrils  flap,  breathing  is  labored 
and  the  flanks  heave  and  the  legs  and  chest  become  dropsical.  By  listening, 
a murmur  can  be  heard  in  the  bottom  of  the  chest  and  the  heart  can  often 
be  heard  splashing  in  water.  Percussion  on  the  ribs  makes  a very  dull  sound 
if  the  tapping  is  low  down.  The  pulse  is  quick  and  weak.  When  death  takes 
place  it  is  caused  by  crowding  the  lungs  to  the  upper  part  of  the  chest,  thus 
causing  suffocation. 

TREATMENT. — Give  three  drams  of  acetate  of  potash  and  two  drams 
of  fluid  extract  of  digitalis  at  a dose  three  times  a day ; or  give  one  dram  of 
iodide  potassium  at  a dose  three  times  a day;  or  give  a tablespoonful  of  pow- 
dered saltpeter  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day.  It  is  well  to  keep  the 
bowels  and  kidneys  moderately  active,  also  groom  the  body  twice  a day.  If 
the  animal’s  appetite  is  poor  give  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  gentian,  two 
tablcspoonfuls  of  ground  ginger  and  a teaspoonful  of  ground  nux  vomica  at 
a dose  three  times  a day.  This  will  improve  the  appetite.  Be  sure  to  furnish 
the  patient  with  nutritious  food  such  as  well-cooked 'oatmeal  gruel  and  eggs 
or  milk  and  whiskey  to  keep  up  the  strength. 

TAPPING  THE  CHEST. — This  is  done  in  case  of  an  excessive  accumu- 
lation of  water  in  the  chest.  A trocar  and  canula  such  as  are  used  in  tapping 
horses  should  be  used.  However,  a veterinarian  is  the  proper  person  to  do  it 
for  if  an  inexperienced  person  attempts  it  he  may  get  into  trouble. 

RHEUMATISM. — This  is  a disease  that  is  by  no  means  well  under- 
stood ; however,  it  is  doubtless  the  result  of  too  much  acid  in  the  system, 
which  has  a tendency  to  produce  inflammation  and  pain  of  some  part  or  parts 
of  the  body,  quite  often  affecting  the  joints,  sheaths  of  the  tendons  and  syn- 
ovial membranes.  It  is  known  by  its  changing  from  one  part  of  the  body  to 
another.  The  acute  form  is  the  most  common,  causing  swelling  and  some- 
times suppuration  and  a discharge  of  synovia  from  the  opening.  In  the 
chronic  form  the  joints  stiffen,  become  diseased  and  sometimes  become  per- 
fectly stiff.  In  some  cases  the  pleura  and  heart  are  involved,  resulting  in 
death.  In  other  cases  the  muscles  are  affected  and  remain  so,  causing  them 
to  contract.  A shifting  lameness  with  joint  swellings  indicates  rheumatism. 
The  bowels  are  generally  costive  and  the  coat  dry.  The  joints  may  suppurate. 

TREATMENT. — Good  care  is  the  treatment.  Keep  the  bowels  open  and 
the  kidneys  active ; also,  keep  the  animal  warm  and  apply  mustard  and  water 
or  some  good  home  liniment  such  as  is  made  by  mixing  equal  parts  of  turpen- 
tine, aqua  ammonia  and  sweet  oil.  Give  two  drams  of  salicylate  of  soda  three 
times  a day  or  give  a tablespoonful  of  powdered  saltpeter  at  a dose  in  feed 
or  water  three  times  a day.  Any  one  of  the  above  remedies  do  good  in  such 
cases.  Rubbing  with  spirits  of  camphor,  alcohol  or  oil  of  mustard  partially 
relieves  the  pain. 

HOLLOW  HORN  AND  WOLF  IN  THE  TAIL.— These  are  common 
terms  made  use  of  by  uninformed  persons  to  denote  a diseased  condition  of 
the  blood  when  they  are  not  able  to  tell  what  ails  the  animal.  It  is  an  imag- 
inary disease.  The  hollow  condition  of  the  horn  exists  in  nearly  all  cattle, 
especially  in  thin  ones  and  boring  a hole  in  the  horn  and  filling  it  with  pepper 
and  salt  never  did  any  good  but  often  harm.  Splitting  the  tail  and  using  the 
same  remedy  cannot  remedy  tail  ailments  if  the  animal  has  any.  Generous 
feeding  and  giving  a teaspoonful  of  ground  nux  vomica,  a teaspoonful  of 
sulphate  of  iron  and  a tablespoonful  of  ground  gentian  in  the  feed  three  times 

3—12 


178 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


a day  will  help  tone  up  the  system.  Never  allow  any  person  to  make  you  be- 
lieve there  are  such  ailments  in  cattle  as  hollow  horn  or  wolf  in  the  tail. 

PERICARDITIS. — This  is  an  inflammation  of  the  membrane  inclosing 
the  heart  and  is  very  often  the  result  of  other  ailments  such  as  pleurisy,  pneu- 
monia or  rheumatism  and  it  may  also  follow  other  constitutional  diseases. 
It  is  true  that  this  disease  may  arise  independent  of  any  other,  the  result  of 
exposure  to  cold,  damp  weather. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  usually  sets  in  with  a light  chill  followed  by  slight 
fever,  producing  dullness  and  a quick  and  somewhat  irregular  pulse.  The 
legs  are  usually  cold,  the  respirations  quicken,  and  when  the  left  side  is  tapped 
.with  the  finger  it  produces  pain.  In  the  secondary  stages  the  legs  stock  and 
a swe^iirto-  Rnnears  under  brisket  and  lower  part  of  belly. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  animal  in  a quiet,  comfortable  stable,  hand 
rub  the  legs  and  clothe  the  body  warmly.  Give  easily  digested  food  in  mod- 
erate quantities  several  times  a day.  In  the  early  stages  of  this  ailment  give 
one-pound  doses  of  epsom  salts  daily  until  the  bowels  move  freely  and  if  the 
temperature  is  high  give  25  drops  of  tincture  of  aconite  every  three  hours  for 
a day  or  two,  then  give  one  dram  of  fluid  extract  of  digitalis  and  one  dram 
of  fluid  extract  of  mix  vomica  three  times  a day.  Or,  give  a tablespoonful  of 
powdered  saltpeter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  soda  at  a dose  in  feed 
three  times  daily. 

PLETHORA. — This  is  a rich  condition  of  the  blood  that  interferes  with 
circulation ; consequently,  poisonous  materials  are  not  eliminated  from  the 
system  and,  of  course,  this  leads  to  many  congestive  and  inflammatory  ail- 
ments. 

CAUSES. — Feeding  too  much  rich  nutritious  food  such  as  oil  meal,  corn, 
oats,  barley  or  rye,  without  the  animal’s  getting  enough  exercise,  also  forcing 
the  growth  of  the  animal  beyond  a certain  point  are  causes.  Being  kept  in 
too  warm  a stable  and  breathing  impure  air  are  other  causes. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  an  unusually  thrifty  condition,  the  animal  laying 
on  flesh  rapidly  but  showing  slight  fever  at  times  followed  later  by  conges- 
tion and  later  on  by  inflammation. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a cathartic  of  epsom  salts  or  linseed  oil  and  reduce 
the  food  supply.  Instead  of  grain,  feed  some  vegetables  and  well  salted  bran 
mashes;  also,  give  one-half  ounce  of  saltpeter  at  a dose  in  the  feed  two  or  three 
times  a day.  Do  not  forget  that  exercise  is  one  of  the  best  remedies  for 
plethora. 

ANEMIA.— 

CAUSES. — This  is  a condition  of  the  blood  just  the  opposite  to  plethora 
and  is  generally  brought  on  bv  want  of  snfflcient  food  or  fresh  air.  Exposure 
to  cold  and  storms,  lice  or  other  parasites,  also  indigestion  and  other  debili- 
tating diseases  may  lead  to  anemia.  Dropsy  or  pnronra  hemorrhagica  may 
follow  cases  of  this  kind  or  they  may  end  in  rheumatism. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  has  pale  membranes,  is  unthrifty,  weak,  dull 
and  always  inclined  to  stock  and  it  may  be  lousy. 

TREATMENT. — If  lousy,  apply  an  infusion  of  stavesacre  seeds,  which 
is  prepared  by  boiling  one  ounce  of  crushed  seeds  in  a quart  of  water,  then 
add  water  to  make  one  quart  before  using.  Give  mineral  tonics  such  as  sul- 
phate of  iron  in  teaspoonful  doses  three  times  a day;  or  give  a teaspoonful 
of  liquid  chloride  or  iron  at  a dose  three  times  daily.  Any  good  home  tonics, 
such  as  quinine,  gentian,  quassia,  ginger,  cinchona  or  Fowler’s  solution  are 


CATTLE-VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


179 


proper  remedies  but  never  forget  the  importance  of  plenty  of  good  food.  Keep 
the  bowels  and  kidneys  active. 

PURPURA  HEMORRHAGICA. — This  is  a specific  blood  disease  seldom 
affecting  cattle  but  most  commonly  affecting  horses. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  is  generally  due  to  an  impoverished  condition  of  the 
blood  which  oozes  through  the  walls  of  the  blood  vessels,  causing  extensive 
swellings  of  the  head  and  limbs  and  under  the  belly.  It  often  follows  debili- 
tating diseases  or  exposure  to  cold  storms ; it  also  follows  exhaustion  and 
usually  comes  on  suddenly.  The  swelling  pits  on  pressure,  the  mucous 
lining  of  the  nose  and  mouth  is  covered  with  red  or  purple  spots  and  some- 
times abscesses  form,  causing  death. 

TREATMENT. — Place  in  a dry,  clean,  well-ventilated  stable;  feed  plenty 
of  rich  nourishing  food ; also  give  thirty  grains  of  quinine  and  two  drams  of 
tincture  of  chloride  of  iron  in  three  ounces  of  raw  linseed  oil  every  four  hours 
for  two  or  three  days.  Hot  blankets  are  helpful  in  cases  of  abdominal  pain. 
The  serum  treatment  has  given  me  fairly  good  results  in  the  majority  of 
cases  where  I have  tried  it,  but  of  course  it  is  more  expensive  than  drugs. 
When  it  is  employed  give  it  early  and  in  full  doses.  Lead  lotions  or  vinegar 
and  water  applied  to  the  swellings  on  the  head  help  to  keep  the  swelling  in 
check 

BLOOD  POISONING— PYEMIA— SEPTICEMIA.— This  is  a con- 
dition that  generally  results  from  absorbing  into  the  system  some  sort  of 
poisonous  matter  from  a suppurating  surface  or  ulcer  or  from  picking  up  pus 
or  germs  of  some  kind. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a rise  in  temperature,  loss  of  appetite,  quick 
breathing,  loss  of  flesh  and,  in  serious  cases,  delirium.  There  may  be  an 
external  abscess,  or  perhaps  one  situated  out  of  sight,  which  causes  all  the 
trouble. 

TREATMENT. — Ascertain  the  cause  and  if  it  is  an  abscess  open  it  and 
wash  out  with  one  part  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  three  parts  water,  applied 
very  slowly;  ten  minutes  later  apply  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  thirty  parts 
water  and  repeat  three  times  a day.  Give  thirty  grains  of  quinine  and  half 
a teacupful  of  whiskey  four  times  a day.  If  the  bowels  are  costive  give  epsom 
salts  or  raw  linseed  oil  to  move  them,  also  give  a tablespoonful  of  powdered 
saltpeter  at  a dose  twice  a day. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  VEINS— PHLEBITIS.— This  condition 
of  the  veins  is  usually  the  result  of  infection  by  an  animal’s  rubbing  a wound 
where  the  vein  has  either  been  punctured  or  exposed. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  inflammation  follows  the  operation  of  blood-letting 
the  wall  of  the  vein  usually  thickens  and  the  wound  discharges  a watery  fluid 
and  when  the  pin  is  taken  out  it  can  be  noticed  that  the  skin  has  not  united. 
This  inflammation  may  extend  along  the  vein  a considerable  distance ; also,  an 
abscess  may  form  causing  the  formation  of  pus  which  always  interferes  with 
the  circulation  of  blood  through  the  vein.  But  cattle  have  an  accessory  jugu- 
lar vein  which  carries  on  the  work  if  the  other  becomes  clogged. 

TREATMENT. — Same  as  for  Horses. 

HOW  TO  RING  A BULL. — First  of  all  you  must  secure  the  bull  by 
placing  him  in  stocks  or  stanchion,  throwing  him  or  placing  him  in  a narrow 
stall.  Tie  him  short,  place  a small  block  of  wood  in  one  nostril,  set  the  punch 
in  the  other  and  strike  it  a blow.  This  makes  a hole  through  the  cartilage ; 
then  place  the  ring  and  set  the  screw  and  your  work  is  completed.  Some 


180 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


stockmen  burn  a hole  through  the  nose  partition  with  a pointed  iron  when  at 
white  heat;  this  can  be  done  quickly  if  you  have  an  assistant  to  help. 

BLEEDING — BLOOD-LETTING. — Nearly  all  ancient  writers  on  veter- 
inary subjects  were  inclined  to  recommend  blood-letting  for  common  ailments 
of  live  stock  ; however,  the  practice  has  largely  gone  into  disuse,  not  only  in 
human  practice  but  in  veterinary  practice  also. 

DEHORNING. — In  young  calves  apply  caustic  potash  as  soon  as  the 
horn  bud  can  be  felt  and  be  sure  to  apply  it  to  the  whole  horn  for  if  this  first 
application  is  thorough  it  will  prevent  the  horn’s  ever  growing.  In  making 
this  application  do  not  get  the  caustic  too  wet  for,  if  so,  it  may  burn  the  healthy 
parts  and  perhaps  some  of  it  get  into  the  eye.  In  removing  the  horns  from 
an  adult,  place  the  animal  in  a stanchion  or  stocks  or  tie  the  head  firmly  and 
short  to  a post.  Snap  a nose  ring  into  the  nose,  pull  the  head  round  to  one 
side,  use  the  dehorning  shears  and  then  apply  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  ten 
parts  pine  tar,  covering  it  with  either  oakum  or  cotton.  To  stop  bleeding 
apply  Monsell’s  solution  of  iron  or  use  a red  hot  iron  or  tie  a silk  thread  about 
the  artery.  Sometimes  I take  hold  of  the  artery  with  the  forceps  and  twist  it. 
This  stops  the  blood  very  quickly.  In  some  cases  pus  forms,  and  if  this  is  the 
case  apply  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  dust  on  equal  parts  of  iodoform,  pow- 
dered alum  and  tannic  acid. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  KILLING  HORNS  ON  CALVES.— 

1.  Caustic  Potash. — As  soon  as  the  horn  starts  it  should  be  rubbed  with 
caustic  potash 

DISEASES  OF  THE  BONE.— fSee  Horse  Department.”) 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BONE— OSTITIS.— (See  “ Horse  Depart- 
ment.”) 

OPEN  JOINT.— rSee  “ Horse  Department.”) 

CAPPED  ELBOW— ELBOW  TUMOR.— (See  Horse  Department.”) 

COLD  ABSCESS.— (See  Horse  Department.”) 

INFLAMMATIONS.— (See  Horse  Department.”) 

CHILLS.— (See  “ Horse  Department”) 

GOITRE— BRONCHOCELE— ENLARGEMENT  OF  THE  THY- 
ROID  GLAND. — (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

TUMORS. — (See  “ Horse  Department.”) 

RICKETS.— (See  “Horse  Department.”) 

IMPURE  BLOOD— BAD  BLOOD.— (See  “ Horse  Department”) 


DR.  KAIR  GIVING  MEDICINE  TO  A SHEEP. 

Raise  the  nose  but  a little  for  if  raised  too  high  the  inodicinc  will  go  down  the 
windpipe  into  the  lungs  and  cause  hroncho-pncunionia  and  lin.ally  death.  Many 
sheep  are  killed  each  year  holding  the  nose  too  high  while  giving  medicine. 
(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


SHEEP 


DISEASES  OF  THE  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 

(Including  Colic  or  Stretches,  Bloating,  Diarrhea  in  Lambs,  Constipation, 
Stomach  Worms,  Fluke  Worms,  Nodular  Disease,  Choking,  Etc.) 


COLIC-^STRETCHES.— 

CAUSES. — Drinking  too  much  ice  cold  water  and  eating  too  much  badly 
cured  fodder  or  grain  and  eating  frozen  vegetables  or  grass  are  the  causes  of 
colic  or  stretches. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are:  getting  up  and  down  frequently, 
stretching  as  if  in  pain,  striking  the  belly  with  the  feet  and  refusing  to  eat. 

TREATMENT. — Any  good  home  colic  remedy  is  all  right,  or  give  a tea- 
spoonful of  essence  of  peppermint,  a teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  twenty  drops  of 
laudanum  at  a dose  every  hour  or  two  until  the  pain  ceases.  Apply  mustard 
and  water  to  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen  and  it  will  relieve  the  pain.  If  the 
bowels  are  not  moving  freely  give  epsom  salts  to  open  them. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  COLIC  OR  STRETCPIES.— 

1.  Soda  and  Ginger. — In  water  as  a drench  give  a dram  each  of  common 
baking  soda  and  ground  ginger.  If  the  first  dose  does  not  effect  a cure  a 
second  dos'^"  may  be  given  in  an  hour.  If  the  second  dose  is  necessary  it  is 
well  to  give  five  ounces  of  raw  linseed  oil. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LAMB  CHOLERA.— 

1.  Ether  and  Milk. — Mix  one-fourth  ounce  of  sulphuric  ether  with  tWo 
ounces  of  warm  milk  and  give  at  a dose.  Repeat  in  two  hours  if  necessary. 
This  remedv  can  be  depended  upon  to  cure  lamb  cholera. 

HOVEN— BLOATING— TYMPANITES.— These  ailments  are  the  re- 
sults of  fermentation  of  food  that  the  sheep  have  eaten,  causing  distension  of 
the  stomach  and  bowels. 

CAUSES. — Drinking  too  much  very  cold  water,  eating  frozen  vegetables 
or  grass,  also  eating  too  much  young  grass  are  the  causes. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  left  side  is  puffed  out  and  if  tapped  it  will  sound 
drum-like.  The  sheep  is  always  uneasy,  getting  up  and  down  and  showing 
symptoms  of  suffering  considerable  pain. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a dessert  spoonful  of  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia, 
one-half  ounce  hypo-sulphite  of  soda  and  a teaspoonful  of  tincture  of  ginger 
at  a dose  in  a pint  of  cold  water  every  two  hours  until  pain  ceases  and  the 
bloat  goes  down.  If  the  bowels  are  costive  give  three  ounces  of  epsom  salts 
in  one-half  pint  of  water,  adding  a little  ginger.  If  you  believe  there  is  danger 
of  .the  stomach  or  bowels  bursting,  puncture  the  stomach  and  allow  the  gas  to 
escape.'  The  wool  should  first  be  cut  off  and  some  disinfectant  applied  to  the 
skin.  A clean  trocar  and  canula  should  be  used.  The  place  to  puncture  is  at 
the  most  prominent  point  of  the  bloating.  Pull  out  the  trocar  but  leave  th-e 
canula  in  until  all  the  gas  is  out. 


181 


182 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BLOATING.— 

1.  Soda,  Ginger  and  Ammonia. — With  a pint  of  water  mix  one  dram  each 
of  common  baking  soda  and  ginger  and  eight  drams  of  aromatic  spirits  of  am- 
monia. This  is  one  dose  and  may  be  repeated  in  an  hour  if  necessary. 
IMPACTION  OF  THE  RUMEN.— 

CAUSES. — This  comes  from  eating  too  much  food  that  the  sheep  is  not 
accustomed  to  having  and  eating  large  quantities  of  indigestible  fodder,  grain 
or  grass.  Badly  cured  clover  and  too  ripe  timothy  are  also  causes  of  impaction. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite,  labored  breathing  and  few  if 
any  bowel  movements.  The  sheep  does  not  ruminate  and  by  pressing  the  left 
side  with  the  hand  you  will  feel  a dull  hard  substance. 

TREATMENT. — The  first  point  to  consider  is  how  to  unload  the  stom- 
ach and  bowels  quickly  and  not  hurt  the  sheep.  Give  four  or  five  ounces  of 
epsom  salts,  one  dram  of  tincture  of  ginger  and  ten  drops  of  tincture  of  nux 
vomica  in  one-fourth  pint  of  water  as  a drench.  This  should  move  the  bowels. 
If  it  fails,  give  raw  linseed  oil  or  some  more  of  the  salts.  Injections  of  soap 
and  water  should  be  used.  If  the  sheep  is  much  bloated  give  some  aromatic 
spirits  of  ammonia,  peppermint  and  ginger  or  any  good  home  remedy  for 
flatulent  colic. 

ENTERITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BOWELS.— Enteritis  is 
quite  a common  sickness  in  sheep. 

CAUSES. — It  very  often  follows  impaction  or  colic  and  is  also  brought  on 
by  exposure  to  cold  and  from  eating  the  wrong  kind  of  food,  or  it  is  sometimes 
the  result  of  giving  irritating  drugs. 

TREATMENT. — Whenever  the  abdominal  pain  is  continuous  instead  of 
spasmodic  you  can  safely  say  it  is  inflammation  of  the  bowels  and  not  colic. 
Apply  mustard  and  water  to  the  abdomen  twice  a day.  Also  give  a teaspoon- 
ful of  laudanum,  twenty  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna,  four  drops  of 
tincture  of  aconite  and  eight  or  ten  ounces  of  raw  linseed  oil  at  a dose  every 
two  hours  until  pain  ceases.  Also  give  two  grains  of  calomel,  one  dose  only. 
DIARRHEA  IN  LAMBS.— 

CAUSES. — If  every  ewe’s  udder  could  be  washed  clean  just  before  the 
young  lambs  suck,  fewer  lambs  would  have  diarrhea  and  if  the  lambs’  first 
milk  allowance  could  be  somewhat  limited,  they  would  have  less  bowel 
trouble : besides,  young  lambs  very  often  chill  and  this  produces  bowel 
trouble. 

TREATMENT. — The  lamb  should  be  given  a small  dose  of  castor  oil  or 
sweet  oil  with  a few  drops  of  tincture  of  ginger  or  a teaspoonful  of  whiskey 
or  three  drops  of  tincture  of  opium  (laudanum)  and,  if  necessary,  give  a few 
drops  of  tincture  of  rhubarb,  spirits  of  camphor  and  ginger  or  laudanum  with 
some  whiskey.  Treat  an  ailment  of  this  kind  in  lambs  just  as  if  treating  chil- 
dren and  you  will  be  successful  in  relieving  them.  I have  obtained  good  re- 
sults by  keeping  the  lamb  perfectly  quiet  and  changing  its  food  and  giving 
one  drop  of  creosote  and  three  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  cinnamon  in  some 
of  the  mother’s  milk  three  or  four  times  a day. 

DYSENTERY. — Dysentery  is  caused  by  an  inflammation  of  the  mucous 
membrane  of  the  bowels.  It  is  generally  the  result  of  neglected  cases  of  diar- 
rhea or  eating  bad  food,  which  brings  on  irritation  of  the  bowels.  It  also  fol- 
lows giving  too  much  cathartic  medicine  at  a time  and  too  often. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  some  fever  and  loss  of  appetite  and  the  bowel 
movements  are  liquid  and  tinged  with  blood  and  have  a bad  odor. 


SHEEP— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


183 


TREATMENT. — In  the  treatment  of  dysentery  it  is  generally  good  prac- 
tice to  give  two  or  three  ounces  of  castor  oil  or  sweet  oil  to  clear  out  the 
stomach  and  bowels.  Also  give  a teaspoonful  or  more  of  tincture  of  opium 
(laudanum),  a teaspoonful  of  tincture  of  ginger  and  the  same  quantity  of 
tincture  of  catechu  at  a dose  in  a little  warm  water  as  a drench  every  two  or 
three  hours  until  the  bowel  discharges  lessen.  It  is  always  a good  plan  to 
give  preparations  of  iron  for  a few  days.  The  sulphate  of  iron  is  the  least 
expensive  and  one-third  of  a teaspoonful  given  at  a dose  two  or  three  times 
a day  in  feed  will  act  both  as  a tonic  and  bowel  astringent.  It  is  also  impor- 
tant to  feed  gruel  for  two  or  three  days  instead  of  whole  grain  or  dry  fodder. 
CONSTIPATION.— 

CAUSES. — Constipation  comes  from  milking  the  ewe  before  she  lambs. 
The  milk  then  does  not  possess  the  same  laxative  properties  which  it  would 
if  she  had  not  been  milked  before  lambing  time.  When  the  lambs  are  fed 
cow’s  milk  without  its  being  diluted  with  water  or  sweetened,  constipation 
is  likely  to  be  the  result.  In  lambs  it  is  no  doubt  often  the  result  of  keeping 
the  ewes  in  a constipated  state  for  some  time  before  lambing.  It  is  a good 
plan  to  have  the  bowels  open  at  lambing  time  and  then  your  lambs  will  do 
better. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  lamb  bloats  somewhat,  is  slightly  distressed  and 
strains  to  move  its  bowels  but  fails  in  the  efifort.  The  first  passage  is  gener- 
ally waxy  and  adheres  to  the  walls  of  the  bowel,  making  it  almost  impossible 
for  the  weak  young  lamb  to  force  the  plug  out;  besides,  the  bowel  seems  to 
be  almost  closed. 

TREATMENT. — The  first  step  is  to  use  some  sweet  oil,  raw  linseed  oil, 
soap,  vaseline,  fresh  butter,  or  lard.  Also  give  the  lamb  a small  teaspoonful  of 
sweet  oil  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day  until  the  bowels  move  easily. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CONSTIPATION  IN  LAMBS.— 

1.  Preventive. — For  two  or  three  days  after  lambing  give  the  ewe  each 
day  a warm  mash  made  of  a pint  of  bran  with  a tablespoonful  of  salt  added. 
This  will  prevent  constipation  in  the  lamb. 

STOMACH  WORMS. — Stomach  worms  trouble  sheep  more  than  the 
breeder  is  inclined  to  believe ; but,  of  course,  if  they  are  not  numerous  the 
breeder  may  never  know  how  much  they  bother  the  sheep.  Lambs  are  more 
often  affected  than  old  sheep. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  sheep  that  has  stomach  worms  usually  eats  plenty 
but  loses  flesh  and  becomes  unthrifty.  The  bowels  are  generally  too  loose 
but  the  sheep  does  not  appear  sick.  The  stomach  worm  is  about  % of 
an  inch  long  and  is  most  often  found  in  the  fourth  stomach  of  lambs  and 
sheep.  It  is  not  unusual  to  find  a whole  flock  afflicted  and  sometimes  it  is 
necessary  to  treat  the  whole  flock. 

TREATMENT. — The  quickest  and  most  satisfactory  results  are  obtained 
by  giving  three  ounces  of  a solution  made  by  adding  one  part  of  coal-tar 
creosote  to  ninety  or  one  hundred  parts  of  water.  Give  a dose  twice  a week 
for  two  weeks.  Or,  give  a dessert  spoonful  of  gasoline  in  three  ounces  of 
sweet  milk  twice  a week  for  two  weeks,  or  give  a teaspoonful  of  turpentine 
in  three  ounces  of  sweet  oil  once  a week  for  three  weeks.  Feed  the  sheep 
one  part  of  powdered  sulphate  of  iron  in  thirty  parts  of  salt  once  a week. 
This  will  help  your  flock.  It  is  also  important  to  feed  plenty  of  grain  at  such 
times  for  the  sheep  are  generally  run  down  and  need  building  up. 


184 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  WORMS.— 

1.  Salt  and  Sulphur. — Mix  one  part  of  sulphur  with  ten  parts  of  salt  and 
keep  before  the  sheep  all  the  time  and  they  will  not  be  troubled  with  worms. 

2.  Salt  and  Turpentine. — Keep  salt  constantly  before  the  sheep  and  fre- 
quently sprinkle  a few  drops  of  turpentine  over  it.  This  will  prevent  worms 
and  ticks. 

3.  Coal-Tar  Creosote. — Mix  coal-tar  creasote  with  thirty  parts  of  water 
and  give  one  tablespoonful.  Repeat  this  dose  in  24  hours. 

4.  Milk  and  Gasoline. — Mix  one  part  gasoline  with  ten  parts  of  milk  and 
give  a tablespoonful  twice  a day  for  two  or  three  days. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  STAGGERS  OR  LOSS  OF  APPE- 
TITE.— 

1.  Turpentine. — If  the  sheep  has  the  staggers  give  it  a teaspoonful  of 
turpentine.  The  dose  seldom  has  to  be  repeated. 

TAPEWORMS. — Tapeworms  are  more  common  in  sheep  in  some  local- 
ities than  in  others.  They  vary  in  length  from  five  to  twenty  feet.  They  are 
perhaps  one-twentieth  part  of  an  inch  wide  at  the  head  and  about  % inch  wide 
at  the  tail.  They  are  of  a white  color  and  are  generally  found  in  the  small 
intestines. 

SYMPTOMS. — Sheep  that  have  tapeworms  usually  scour,  become  blood- 
less, have  a white  skin,  show  weakness  and  great  emaciation  and  sometimes 
die.  The  eyes  are  dull.  The  appetite  is  good  but  the  sheep  fails  to  thrive. 
By  watching  the  excrement,  joints  of  the  worm  may  be  discovered. 

TREATMENT. — Get  the  stomach  and  bowels  empty.  Give  a teaspoon- 
ful of  powdered  kamala  and  a teaspoonful  of  oil  of  male  fern  in  3 ounces  of 
sweet  oil  as  a drench  twice  a week  until  the  tapeworm  comes  away.  Another 
very  good  remedy  is  two  drams  of  kamala  given  in  one  ounce  of  castor  oil  on 
an  empty  stomach.  When  treating  for  tapeworm  be  sure  to  fast  the  sheep  to 
have  the  stomach  and  bowels  empty.  In  order  to  know  if  your  treatment 
proves  effective  keep  them  in  a barn  by  themselves  and  examine  their  evacua- 
tions closely  and  try  to  find  the  head  of  the  tapeworm.  If  you  have  never 
drenched  a sheep  before — let  him  stand  in  a natural  position,  avoid  holding 
the  head  too  high  and  pour  the  medicine  into  the  mouth  slowly  for  fear  a 
portion  of  it  will  pass  down  the  windpipe.  If  taken  slowly  it  generally  passes 
into  the  fourth  stomach  where  it  should  go. 

SHEDDING  TEMPORARY  TEETH. — Between  one  and  two  years  of 
age  the  sheep  sometimes  have  trouble  in  shedding  some  of  their  milk  teeth. 
When  they  do  not  eat  well  but  show  no  symptoms  of  sickness,  examine  their 
teeth  and  you  will  perhaps  find  a cap  that  requires  removing  and,  if  so,  do  not 
hesitate  to  pull  it  out  with  a pair  of  pincers  and  the  sheep  will  eat  better  at 
once. 

DISEASED  TEETH. — It  is  very  often  necessary  to  pull  a few  remaining 
front  teeth  in  sheep  after  they  have  shed  some  of  them.  By  so  doing  the  gums 
come  together  better  than  if  these  teeth  were  left  in.  The  front  teeth  of  sheep 
seem  to  loosen  and  give  out  first. 

FLUKE  WORMS— FLUKE  DISEASE— LIVER-ROT.— This  affection 
is  a very  destructive  ailment  of  sheep  and  is  determined  by  the  presence  of 
flat-like  parasites  in  the  gall  ducts.  These  parasites  lay  eggs  in  the  gall  ducts 
and  are  passed  out  of  the  body  and  if  deposited  on  certain  damp  lands  they 
soon  multiply  and  infect  all  the  sheep  that  graze  on  such  land. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  sheep  may  thrive  very  well  for  a few  weeks  but  soon 


SHEEP— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


185 


begin  to  lose  flesh  and  grow  weak  rapidly.  The  skin  becomes  soft  and  is 
always  pale  and  the  eyes  become  a sort  of  yellow  color.  The  wool  drops  out 
easily  and  the  sheep  become  dropsical  and  if  the  dung  is  examined  large  num- 
bers of  microscopic  eggs  are  readily  seen. 

TREATMENT. — Drugs  cut  very  little  figure  in  the  treatment  of  liver-rot 
when  many  parasites  have  gained  access  to  the  system.  The  most  important 
step  is  to  remove  the  sheep  to  a high  and  dry  pasture  for  if  kept  on  a wet  low 
one  the  whole  flock  will  die.  By  feeding  plenty  of  salt  and  draining  your  low 
wet  pastures  you  will  obtain  better  results  than  by  any  other  means.  Keeping 
the  sheep  off  the  infested  fields  at  night  and  until  all  the  dew  has  dried  off  the 
following  morning  will  go  quite  a ways  toward  lessening  the  death  rate  in  your 
sheep,  but  of  course  an  infested  pasture  should  be  abandoned  until  the  para- 
sites die  and  sheep  should  never  be  turned  into  any  kind  of  a meadow  that  is 
not  high  and  dry.  It  is  a pretty  good  plan  to  feed  diseased  sheep  some  of  the 
following  compound.  Take  powdered  gentian,  powdered  anise  seed,  powdered 
sulphate  of  iron  and  common  salt,  equal  parts  by  weight,  giving  V2  a tea- 
spoonful at  a dose  to  each  sheep  every  day.  Owing  to  the  rapid  spread  of  this 
ailment  it  is  sometimes  good  judgment  to  destroy  sheep  and  abandon  the 
meadow  for  a year  in  order  to  .stamp  it  out.  Their  bowel  discharges  should 
be  examined  microscopically  by  a person  who  can  tell  when  the  liver  fluke 
parasite  is  present. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FLUKE  WORMS.— 

i.  Sulphur,  Salt  and  Ashes. — Keep  before  the  sheep  constantly  a mixture 
of  equal  parts  of  sulphur,  salt  and  wood  ashes.  This  will  keep  them  in  good 
condition  and  prevent  their  being  troubled  with  the  fluke  worm. 

CHOKING.— 

CAUSES. — Sheep  are  most  often  choked  by  eating  vegetables  that  have 
not  been  sliced  properly  or  by  eating  dry  meal  too  fast. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  a sheep  is  choked  it  froths  at  the  mouth,  usually 
bloats  some,  is  unable  to  eat  and  sometimes  has  a spasm  of  the  muscles  of  the 
neck. 

TREATMENT. — An  effort  should  be  made  to  assist  them  in  swallowing 
the  obstruction  and  this  is  best  done  by  giving  them  oil  or  grease,  and  fifteen 
drops  of  laudanum  or  fluid  extract  of  belladonna  should  be  added.  It  is 
often  necessary  to  pass  a probang ; or,  a rubber  tube  may  be  run  down  the 
throat.  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  the  throat  and  gullet  are  easily  injured; 
therefore,  care  must  be  taken  not  to  puncture  them.  After  a choke  feed  gruel 
or  wet  mash  for  ten  days. 

NODULAR  DISEASE. — Nodular  disease  is  quite  prevalent  all  over  this 
country  and  is  what  butchers  and  sheen  raisers  call  “ knotty  guts  ” and  is  quite 
unlike  all  other  ailments  of  sheep.  The  disease  is  caused  by.  a small  worm 
from  one-half  to  one  inch  in  length  and  it  seems  to  be  an  American  species 
for  sheep  seem  to  be  free,  or  almost  free,  from  this  disease  in  Australia  and 
Germiany.  On  examination  the  walls  of  the  intestines  are  found  covered  with 
small  nodules  filled  with  a greenish  pus.  These  nodules  are  caused  by  a small 
worm  about  the  size  of  the  stomach  worm  or  smaller  but  it  is  not  the  adult 
worm  but  its  embryo  that  really  produces  this  trouble.  The  way  this  disease 
is  spread  is  by  allowing  diseased  sheep  to  graze  on  land  that  is  used  later  by 
sound  sheep.  Preventing  the  lambs  from  grazing  behind  their  mothers  will 
help  prevent  their  becoming  diseased.  It  is  the  older  sheep  that  are  most 


186 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


affected  with  this  disease  but  lambs  frequently  have  a few  nodules  but  not 
enough  to  do  much  harm. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  most  noticeable  symptoms  are  much  the  same  as 
those  presented  in  stomach  worms  and  many  times  a correct  diagnosis  can 
not  be  made  until  after  death. 

TREATMENT. — When  in  the  advanced  stages  nothing  can  be  done 
that  seems  to  cure  nodular  disease  in  sheep.  Three  ounces  of  a one  per 
cent,  solution  of  coal-tar  creosote,  or  a teaspoonful  of  gasoline  in  four  ounces 
of  sweet  milk,  or  two  ounces  of  sweet  oil  once  a week  for  three  weeks  is  sup- 
posed to  help  them.  Also,  giving  from  fifteen  to  twenty-five  grains  of  sul- 
phate of  iron  at  a dose  in  feed  daily  will  help  them.  Plenty  of  good  feed  and 
salting  them  well,  at  the  same  time  giving  tonics,  are  beneficial. 

By  inspecting  the  intestines  of  sheep  at  the  different  slaughtering  estab- 
lishments of  this  country  and  talking  with  both  the  United  States  and  City 
Meat  Inspectors  I find  that  nearly  all  the  sheep  that  are  slaughtered  show  a 
few  nodules  on  the  bowels  which  could  have  done  no  harm ; but  when  they 
have  a great  many  their  bowels  are  irritated,  digestion  interrupted,  and  the 
animals  grow  weak. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  RESPIRATORY  OR 
BREATHING  ORGANS. 

(Including  Catarrh,  Sore  Throat,  Distemper,  Bronchitis,  Filaria  Bronchitis 

and  Pneumonia.) 


CATARRH — COLD  IN  THE  HEAD. — Catarrh  is  an  inflammation  of 
the  mucous  membrane  that  lines  the  nasal  and  upper  air  passages. 

CAUSES. — During  the  washing  season  and  following  the  shearing  of 
sheep  they  are  quite  likely  to  suffer  from  cold  in  the  head.  It  is  also  caused 
by  exposure  in  wet  weather,  and  it  also  follows  exposure  to  too  much  dust  as 
when  traveling  over  dusty  roads. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a discharge  from  the  nose,  some  coughing,  sneez- 
ing and  some  loss  of  appetite. 

TREATMENT. — If  it  is  possible  to  find  out  the  cause,  do  so,  and  remove 
it,  for  this  will  do  much  for  your  sheep.  Keep  them  in  a dry  comfortable 
place,  feed  them  well,  keep  their  bowels  open  and  give  each  sick  one  % tea- 
spoonful of  sulphate  of  iron,  % teaspoonful  of  gentian  root  (ground  or  pow- 
dered), one-fourth  of  a teaspoonful  of  flower  sulphur  and  % teaspoonful  of 
powdered  charcoal  at  a dose  in  feed  or  as  a drench  twice  a day.  A very  good 
condition  powder  to  give  sheep  that  have  catarrh  is  made  of  powdered  sulphate 
of  iron,  gentian,  ginger,  fenugreek  and  baking  soda ; use  equal  parts  of  each 
by  weight  and  give  one-half  teaspoonful  to  each  sheep  at  a dose  two  or  three 
times  a day.  Feed  some  vegetables  and  keep  their  bowels  open. 

SORE  THROAT.— 

CAUSES. — Exposure  to  cold  rain  or  snow  storms,  cooling  the  body  sud- 
denly, being  in  dust  or  being  stabled  in  foul  filthy  barns  are  some  of  the  most 
common  causes  of  sore  throat  in  sheep. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a poking  out  of  the  nose  and  soreness  of  the 
throat  and  when  pressure  is  applied  there  is  generally  some  coughing.  Usu- 
ally some  of  the  water  returns  through  the  nose  when  they  drink. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  equal  parts  of  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and 
either  sweet  oil  or  raw  linseed  oil  to  the  throat  once  a day  or  you  may  apply 
any  good  home  liniment  or  apply  one  part  kerosene  and  four  parts  of  lard. 
Steam  the  head  with  creosote  or  carbolic  acid  and  hot  water  twice  a day. 
Also  give  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  following  gargle  at  a dose  three  times  a 
day.  Dissolve  two  drams  of  chlorate  of  potash  in  a pint  of  water  and  give 
according  to  above  directions. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REIdEDIES  FOR  SORE  MOUTH.— 

1.  Turpentine  and  Sweet  Oil. — Without  raising  the  sheep’s  nose,  pour 
one  part  turpentine  and  six  parts  sweet  oil  over  the  nose  and  mouth.  Also 
mix  some  salt  and  turpentine  with  bran  and  feed  to  those  affected. 

DISTEMPER. — Distemper  in  sheep  is  a disease  very  much  like  dis-' 
temper  in  horses  and  canine  distemper  in  dogs  and  when  a recovery  does  not 
take  place  in  two  or  three  weeks  it  becomes  malignant  and  not  easily  cured. 

SYMPTOMS. — This  disease  is  usually  preceded  by  a chill  or  chilly  feel- 
ing and  is  followed  by  some  fever,  a quickened  heart  action  and  some  nasal 

187 


188 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


discharge  which  soon  thickens  and  sticks  to  the  nostrils.  When  the  disease 
becomes  aggravated,  the  discharge  is  thick  and  mixed  with  blood  and  there 
is  much  prostration  and  the  pulse  is  weak  and  breathing  is  difficult;  they  will 
then  die  if  not  relieved  soon. 

TREATMENT. — A change  of  not  only  food  but  air  is  of  great  import- 
ance in  getting  them  well.  They  should  be  well  fed  on  grain,  clover  hay, 
vegetables  and  grass  if  possible.  Give  a teaspoonful  of  the  following  com- 
pound powder  at  a dose  in  feed  or  water  as  a drench  two  or  three  times  a day. 
Mix  gentian  root  (powdered),  ginger,  granulated  carbonate  of  ammonia  and 
charcoal.  If  they  cough  much  give  ten  drops  of  tincture  of  opium,  ten  grains 
of  muriate  of  ammonia  and  ten  drops  of  tincture  of  lobelia  at  a dose  in  feed  or 
water  twice  a day.  It  always  helps  them  to  steam  the  head,  adding  a little 
creosote  or  carbolic  acid  to  the  hot  water  and  this  should  be  done  daily.  Their 
noses  should  be  washed  out  with  weak  salt-water. 

BRONCHITIS. — Bronchitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  air  passages  of 
the  lungs. 

CAUSES. — Exposure  to  storms  and  dust;  the  presence  of  filaria,  or  a 
small  thread-like  worm,  in  the  bronchial  tubes  and  inhaling  irritating  gases 
are  causes  of  bronchitis.  It  is  also  caused  by  improper  drenching  of  sheep 
when  some  of  the  medicine  goes  down  the  windpipe  instead  of  the  gullet. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  animal  in  a comfortable  pen  free  from  dust. 
Feed  bran  mash,  vegetables  or  grass.  Apply  liniment  to  the  chest.  Give  ten 
drops  of  laudanum,  ten  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna  and  forty  drops 
of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  in  three  ounces  of  cold  water  as  a drench  three  times 
a day.  It  is  helpful  to  give  some  whiskey,  eggs,  milk  and  oatmeal  in  the  later 
stages  of  this  ailment,  especially  when  the  sheep  are  weak. 

FILARIA  BRONCHITIS.— 

CAUSES. — Filaria  bronchitis  is  the  result  of  small  slim  worms  inhabiting 
the  bronchial  tubes,  thereby  setting  up  irritation. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  always  loss  of  appetite,  rubbing  of  the  nose  and 
quick  breathing.  Sometimes  there  is  looseness  of  the  bowels  and  generally 
there  is  a husky,  dry,  hoarse  cough. 

TREATMENT. — Give  % teaspoonful  of  the  following  compound  powder 
to  each  sheep  at  a dose  in  feed  or  as  a drench  twice  a day.  Use  equal  parts 
by  weight  of  powdered  sulphate  of  iron,  ground  ginger,  gentian  and  flower 
sulphur.  Burn  sulphur  and  let  the  sheep  inhale  the  fumes,  but  be  sure  to  re- 
main in  the  room  in  order  to  see  that  they  are  not  given  too  much.  This 
treatment  should  be  given  once  a week  for  four  weeks  and  it  is  a good  plan 
to  keep  the  sick  and  healthy  apart.  Feed  them  plenty  of  nutritious  food. 
Fairly  good  results  follow  giving  one-half  teaspoonful  of  turpentine  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  raw  linseed  oil  twice  a week.  This  will  help  them.  Or,  ask 
your  veterinary  surgeon  to  inject,  with  a hypodermic  syringe,  five  or  six 
drops  of  carbolic  acid  and  ten  drops  of  chloroform  in  a teaspoonful  of  sweet 
oil  into  the  windpipe,  the  one  dose  only;  or,  you  will  find  gasoline  and  sweet 
oil  produces  quite  good  results,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  the  gasoline  in  a 
dessert  spoonful  of  oil.  When  any  mixture  of  this  kind  is  put  into  the  wind- 
pipe, it  produces  some  coughing  and  the  sheep  or  calf  should  be^kept  in  fresh 
air  until  the  dead  worms  are  unloaded. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  STRONGYLUS  FILARIA.— 

1.  Turpentine  and  Linseed  Oil. — Give  one  dram  of  turpentine  in  some 
linseed  oil. 


SHEEP— DISEASES  OF  RESPIRATORY  ORGANS. 


189 


2.  Sulphur. — Burn  some  sulphur  where  the  sheep  will  be  compelled  to 
inhale  the  fumes,  taking  care  not  to  suffocate  them.  This  treatment  should 
be  repeated  once  a day  for  three  or  four  days. 

PNEUMONIA. — Pneumonia  is  an  inflammation  of  the  lung  substance. 

CAUSES. — An  inflammation  of  the  lungs  very  often  follows  congestion 
of  the  lungs.  It  is  the  result  of  exposure  to  cold  storms  and  is  very  often 
associated  with  other  diseases  such  as  pleurisy,  bronchitis  and  catarrhal 
affections  of  the  air  passages. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite,  great  thirst,  quick  breathing, 
some  coughing  and  a quick  pulse  which  generally  grows  weaker.  By  sound- 
ing the  chest  with  the  ear  placed  to  the  side,  back  of  the  shoulders,  a grating 
sound  will  be  heard. 

TREATMENT. — Place  the  animal  in  a clean  well-ventilated  pen,  not 
in  a basement.  It  should  not  be  forgotten  that  fresh  air  and  cold  water  are 
two  of  the  essentials  in  treating  pneumonia.  Also  give  aconite  to  reduce  the 
fever,  or  give  saltpeter  in  the  drinking  water.  Also  give  tonics  or  stimulants 
as  the  case  seems  to  demand.  Good  nursing  and  plenty  of  fresh  air  are  two 
important  things  to  look  after.  Also  give  tonics  and  stimulants  in  the  later 
period  of  their  sickness. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PNEUMONIA.— 

1.  Quinine,  Whiskey,  Saltpeter  and  Aconite. — Every  six  hours  give  3 
grains  of  quinine  in  half  an  ounce  of  whiskey  and  every  four  hours  give 
2 grains  of  saltpeter  and  2 drops  of  aconite.  Begin  giving  the  first  mixture 
and  wait  one  hour  before  beginning  with  the  second  remedy. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 

(Including  Lambing  and  Attending  Difficulties,  Garget,  Cleaning, 

Castration,  Etc.) 

LAMBING. — The  usual  period  of  gestation  in  ewes  is  from  145  to  165 
days  but  most  ewes  lamb  in  about  155  days.  In  order  to  tell  when  ewes  have 
been  mated  the  ram  is  generally  painted  on  his  breast  and  brisket;  some  of  this 
paint  is  left  on  the  ewe  when  served;  so,  if  close  watch  is  kept,  you  can  tell 
prett}^  nearly  when  the  ewe  will  lamb.  After  the  ewe  has  been  pregnant  three 
months  the  udder  usually  commences  to  fill,  especially  if  she  is  young,  but 
if  old  she  does  not  make  bag  so  early.  When  ewes  are  making  preparations  to 
lamb  they  generally  leave  the  rest  of  the  flock  and  appear  uneasy,  pawing 
the  ground,  lying  down  and  getting  up  and  bleating  as  if  looking  for  their 
lamb.  Very  soon  the  water  bag  breaks  which  is  followed  by  labor  pains  and 
the  expulsion  of  the  lamb. 

DIFFICULT  LAMBING. — It  is  seldom  necessary  to  help  a ewe  to  lamb 
and  she  should  never  be  assisted  unless  you  believe  it  is  necessary  for  when  she 
is  taken  hold  of  and  frightened  it  sometimes  causes  her  to  cease  having  labor 
pains  and  greatly  delays  matters,  then  the  operator  fails  to  get  the  necessary 
assistance  from  her  he  otherwise  would  have  had  if  her  pain  had  kept  up.  The 
forelegs  should  come  first  with  the  nose  between  and  when  a lamb  comes  this 
way  the  ewe  seldom  has  any  trouble,  but  the  forelegs  may  come  with  the  head 
turned  back,  or  one  leg  and  head,  or  one  foreleg  and  a hind  one  may  come 
first.  Or,  she  may  have  twins  and  a leg  of  each  comes  at  the  same  time. 
Therefore,  whoever  assists  her  should  study  the  situation  and  take  steps  to 
put  the  lamb  in  a normal  position,  then  she  can  soon  be  relieved.  It  is 
always  good  practice  to  use  some  disinfectant  or  carbolized  lard  or  oil  and 
warm  water;  besides,  the  hand  should  be  clean  and  the  nails  cut  short. 
Push  the  lamb  back  into  the  uterus  with  either  a crutch  or  the  hand  and  put 
it  into  a normal  position;  never  use  too  much  force  for  fear  of  injuring  the 
ewe.  Every  sheep  breeder  should  have  some  handy  instruments  for  use  in 
such  cases.  A great  many  lambs  die  from  getting  chilled  when  they  are  born. 
Their  lives  could  have  been  saved  by  keeping  the  ewes  in  a warm  place.  If 
you  find  a lamb  a few  hours  old  that  is  chilled,  dip  it  in  warm  water,  a 
little  warmer  than  body  heat,  then  wrap  it  in  a woolen  cloth  until  it  dries 
and  keep  it  in  a heated  room  for  a few  days. 

GARGET— MAMMITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  UDDER.— 

CAUSES. — The  deep  udders  of  sheep  which  are  easy  milkers  are  most 
commonly  affected  with  garget  and  it  is  generally  the  result  of  infection  or 
injury  or  too  much  cold  air  or  moisture,  producing  congestion  followed  by 
an  inflammation  of  the  bag.  When  an  udder  is  infected  the  bacteria  gen- 
erally creep  through  the  teat  opening;  this  is  why  so  many  free  milkers  are 
diseased.  Of  course  bacteria  may  reach  the  udder  of  many  sheep,  and  no 
doubt  they  do,  without  doing  very  much  harm  but  in  many  cases  they  seem 
to  set  up  an  active  inflammation  which  is  not  easily  subdued.  Butting  lambs 
which  bruise  their  mothers’  bag  and  also  over-feeding  cause  the  udder  to  in- 

190 


SHEEP— DISEASES  OF  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 


191 


flame.  Any  severe  injury  may  cause  a simple  case  of  garget  but  the  majority 
of  cases  show  germs  or  bacteria  in  the  diseased  quarter. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a tense,  hard  bunch  in  one  or  more  quarters 
of  the  udder,  increased  heat  in  the  bag,  some  fever,  loss  of  appetite  and  quick 
breathing  which  is  the  result  of  pain. 

TREATMENT. — Support  the  udder  with  a bandage,  apply  hot  fomenta- 
tions early  and  often  for  they  give  good  results,  and  irrigate  the  udder  with 
one  part  bi-chloride  of  mercury  and  one  thousand  parts  of  clean  water  once  a 
day.  It  is  also  good  practice  to  inflate  the  blocked  quarter  with  oxygen  or 
sterilized  air  if  nothing  else  will  open  it.  This  may  be  done  by  pumping 
oxygen  or  air  into  the  udder  with  a bicycle  pump.  I have  obtained  good  re- 
sults from  applications  of  hot  raw  linseed  oil  or  camphorated  oil.  Gentle 
hand-rubbing  will  always  help  a caked  bag  and  giving-  small  doses  of  iodide 
of  potassium  will  help  to  clear  it.  Grain  should  not  be  fed  to  sheep  while  their 
udders  are  much  inflamed  and  it  is  important  to  keep  the  bowels  open  and 
active. 

CLEANING— THE  PLACENTA  NOT  COMING  AWAY.— The  pla- 
centa, or  cleaning,  should  come  away  very  soon  after  lambing  but  if  it  does 
not,  it  should  be  pulled  away  gently.  However,  I like  to  wait  five  or  ten 
hours  before  taking  it  away.  If  you  give  any  medicine  it  should  be  a laxa- 
tive of  either  epsom  salts,  sweet  oil  or  raw  linseed  oil ; salts  is  the  best. 
If  the  bowels  are  open  and  active  it  is  not  good  practice  to  give  a cathartic. 
I have  obtained  good  results  by  giving  one-dram  doses  of  tincture  of  ergot 
but  it  is  seldom  necessary. 

EVERSION  OF  THE  WOMB. — Eversion  of  the  womb  is  usually  the  re- 
sult of  violent  straining  when  lambing  or  soon  after,  or  it  may  be  the  result  of 
weakness.  Whenever  it  occurs  the  parts  should  be  kept  very  clean.  This  is 
best  done  by  placing  a towel  under  the  uterus  and  washing  the  womb  with  one 
part  carbolic  acid  and  one  hundred  parts  tepid  water.  After  you  have  cleaned 
the  uterus,  elevate  her  hind  parts  and  gently  return  the  uterus.  The  hind  parts 
should  be  elevated  three  or  four  inches  higher  than  the  fore  parts.  Two  or 
three  stitches  should  be  taken  in  the  upper  part  of  the  vulva  and  left  in  for  a 
week.  A surcingle  placed  around  her  waist  will  prevent  her  displacing  the 
parts  and  if  she  is  in  any  pain  give  one  dram  of  laudanum  every  hour  or  two 
until  pain  ceases. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  TESTICLES.— Inflammation  of  the  testi- 
cles is  generally  the  result  of  an  injury. 

SYMPTOMS. — On  account  of  the  pain  the  ram  usually  stands.  The 
scrotum  is  swollen  and  tender  and  his  appetite  is  poor. 

TREATMENT. — Suspend  his  testicles  in  a bandage  or  net.  Foment 
with  hot  water  and  apply  equal  parts  of  extract  of  witch  hazel,  alcohol  and 
hot  water;  or,  dissolve  one  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  in  a quart  of  water  and  ap- 
ply several  times  a day.  Give  epsom  salts  to  open  the  bowels  and  feed  cooling, 
laxative  food.  In  some  cases  pus  forms  and  when  it  does  it  should  be  allowed 
to  escape  and  the  scrotum  should  be  washed  out  with  peroxide  of  hydrogen 
and  later  with  carbolic  acid  and  water,  one  part  acid  and  fifty  of  water. 

CASTRATING  LAMBS. — Lambs  should  be  castrated  when  they  are 
five  or  six  days  old.  The  operation  is  exceedingly  simple  and  it  is  best  done 
by  having  an  assistant  hold  the  lamb.  Cut  off  quite  a portion  of  the  pouch. 
This  is  easily  done  with  either  a sharp  knife  or  scissors.  Then  pull  out  the 


192 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


testicle,  either  altogether  or  well  out,  and  cut  off  the  cord.  Then  apply 
one  part  carl)olic  acid  and  fifty  parts  water  or  blow  on  equal  parts  of  iodoform 
and  boric  acid.  When  operating  always  clean  your  knife  or  scissors  and  dip 
them  into  carbolic  acid  one  part  and  water  fifty  parts.  Be  sure  to  clean  your 
tools  after  each  operation  for  fear  of  one  sheep  poisoning  another. 

CASTRATING  RAMS. — When  castrating  an  old  ram  it  is  well  to  keep 
in  mind  that  there  is  danger  of  his  bleeding  to  death  if  the  operation  is  not 
performed  properly.  Throw  the  animal  down  and  roll  him  on  his  back  and 
then  tie  his  legs  or  have  him  held.  Either  cut  off  the  end  of  the  sack  or  make 
a bold  incision  into  the  scrotum  to  allow  the  testicle  to  ^escape;  then  cut  the 
attachment  with  a knife,  pull  out  the  cord  and  cut  it  off  with  either  an  emas- 
culator  or  ecraseur,  or  it  will  perhaps  be  more  convenient  to  tie  a silk  or 
linen  string  around  the  cord,  leaving  the  ends  long  and  hanging  out  of  the 
body  so  that  the  string  will  fall  out  of  the  body  when  the  end  of  the  cord  sloughs 
off.  Wash  the  wound  with  carbolic  acid,  one  part,  and  water,  fifty  parts;  or, 
dust  in  iodoform  and  boric  acid  twice  a day.  The  knife  and  hands  of  the 
operator  should  be  kept  clean  and  the  knife  should  be  put  into  carbolic  acid 
and  water  before  it  is  used.  Always  wash  the  knife  before  it  is  used  on  a 
second  sheep  for  fear  of  infection.  The  wound  should  be  dressed  once  or 
twice  a day. 


VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


(Including  Foot-Rot,  Grubs  in  the  Head,  Ticks,  Scab,  Sore  Eyes,  Swollen 
Feet,  Docking,  Maggots,  Wool-Shedding,  Hydrophobia,  Lockjaw,  Etc.) 


FOOT-ROT. — Foot-rot  is  a contagious  disease  caused  by  a micro- 
organism and  is  always  made  worse  by  standing  in  manure  or  filth  or 
from  wearing  the  hoofs  too  close  or  from  running  on  soft  boggy  pastures  and 
there  are  many  other  causes  which  may  bring  on  simple  foot-rot  that  may  not 
be  the  contagious  kind. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  nearly  all  cases  there  is  some  lameness  and  in  many 
cases  severe  lameness.  The  heat  of  the  foot  will  tell  you  which  is  the  sore 
one.  It  may  be  the  result  of  injury  and  only  foul  in  the  foot,  or  it  may  be 
non-contagious. 

TREATMENT. — In  case  there  is  only  superficial  rawness  either  be- 
tween the  claws  or  on  the  back  part  of  the  heel,  touch  the  sore  with  one 
part  of  sulphuric  acid  and  four  parts  of  water,  then  smear  the  sore  with  pine- 
tar,  cover  with  oakum,  and  bandage.  I have  found  sugar  of  lead  and  water 
very  good.  Use  an  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  to  a quart  of  water  and  it  should 
be  applied  daily.  It  is  often  necessary  to  trim  off  some  of  the  horn  to  get 
at  the  sore  parts.  When  you  are  sure  the  case  is  one  of  contagious  foot-rot 
stand  the  sheep  in  a saturated  solution  of  bluestone  (sulphate  of  copper) 
for  ten  or  twelve  minutes  and  this  mixture  should  be  at  blood  heat.  If 
there  are  any  very  raw  sores  touch  them  with  crude  carbolic  acid,  muriatic 
acid  or  nitrate  of  silver  or  with  a red  hot  iron.  The  feet  should  be  kept  clean 
and  the  diseased  sheep  kept  away  from  the  well  ones  and  well  fed.  If  they  do 
not  eat  well  give  vegetable  tonics. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FOOT-ROT.— 

1.  Blue  Vitriol. — Put  four  inches  of  water  into  a tank  and  add  all  the 
blue  vitriol  it  will  dissolve.  Cut  away  all  diseased  parts  of  the  foot  and  let 
each  sheep  stand  in  this  solution  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  then  apply 
chloride  of  lime  and  fill  the  cleft  with  a piece  of  tow  long  enough  to  tie  to 
the  foot.  The  lime  should  be  renewed  daily  until  a cure  is  effected.  The 
farmer  sending  this  recipe  lives  at  Windham,  Ohio.  He  says:  ‘‘Using 
this  recipe  once  was  worth  over  one  hundred  dollars  to  me.  At  an  auction 
I bought  a flock  of  over  fifty  sheep  for  one  dollar  per  head  as  they  were  so 
badly  diseased  with  foot-rot  that  no  one  else  would  buy  them.  I took  them 
home,  used  this  treatment  thoroughly  and  finally  cured  them  and  sold  them  for 
three  dollars  per  head,  which  made  me  a profit  of  two  dollars  per  head  on  over 
fifty  sheep.” 

It  is  only  necessary  to  add  that  it  is  the  farmer  who  knows  the  most  about 
stock,  their  diseases  and  how  to  cure  them  that  makes  the  most  money.  Nowa- 
days the  farmer  should  be  as  wide  awake  and  up-to-date  as  the  business 
man  if  he  expects  to  make  the  greatest  success. 

2.  Turpentine. — Clean  the  foot  carefully  and  pour  turpentine  freely 
upon  the  affected  parts. 

3.  Arsenic. — Drive  the  sheep  through  a long  trough  containing  one-half 
pound  of  arsenic  to  five  gallons  of  water. 

3—13  193 


194 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


4.  Carbolic  Acid  and  Corrosive  Sublimate. — Construct  a long  trough 
and  fill  to  the  depth  of  three  or  four  inches  with  water  to  which  has  been 
added  an  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  and  two  drams  of  corrosive  sublimate  to  each 
quart  of  water.  Drive  the  sheep  through  this  trough  once  a week  until  cured. 

GRUBS  IN  TPIE  HEAD. — The  grub  in  the  head  of  sheep  is  the  larva 
of  a small  gadfly  (CEstrus  Ovis)  which  deposits  its  live  embryo  on  the 
margin  of  the  nostrils.  It  passes  up  the  nasal  cavities  into  the  sinuses  and 
nests  just  below  the  eyes.  It  is  during  the  hot  months  of  July,  August  and 
September  that  these  gadflies  bother  sheep  most.  These  larvae  remain 
in  the  sinuses  all  winter  and  come  out  in  the  spring  and  in  three  or  four  weeks 
turn  into  gadflies.  During  the  summer  when  these  flies  are  bothering 
sheep  it  is  a good  plan  to  allow  the  sheep  to  run  on  a plowed  field  in  order 
that  they  can  push  their  noses  into  the  earth  and  prevent  being  infested. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  generally  more  or  less  irritation  of  the  nose 
with  some  discharge  and  when  there  are  many  of  the  larvae  they  produce 
dizziness. 

TREATMENT. — Place  your  sheep  in  a warm  building  and  this  will 
induce  the  grubs  to  come  out ; or,  blow  some  Scotch  snufif  into  the  nose  twice 
a day;  or,  burning  some  red  pepper  will  cause  sneezing  and  dislodge  some  of 
them.  By  far  the  better  treatment  is  a preventive  one.  During  the  gadfly 
season  keep  the  sheep  in  a dark  shaded  stable  in  the  daytime.  Plow  a few 
furrows  to  give  the  sheep  loose  earth  to  rub  the  nose  in.  Put  tar  on  the 
nose  and  it  is  better  to  add  some  fish  oil  to  it.  It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind 
that  grubs  usually  come  out  of  the  sinuses  in  the  spring  but  if  they  do 
not  the  only  successful  treatment  is  to  cut  (trephine)  through  the  bones  of 
the  face  between  the  eye  and  the  median  line  of  the  face  or  just  in  front  of 
the  horn  if  the  animal  has  horns.  The  sinuses  should  then  be  washed  out  with 
weak  salt  water  at  about  the  temperature  of  the  body  and  kept  up  until  the 
grubs  are  dislodged.  Sheep  that  have  grubs  in  the  head  should  be  well  fed 
and  should  be  treated  in  due  time. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  GRUBS  IN  THE  HEAD.— 

1.  Sulphur. — Burn  sulphur  near  the  sheep  so  that  they  will  inhale  the 
fumes.  They  should  inhale  enough  to  cause  coughing  but  not  enough  to 
suffocate  them. 

2.  Kerosene. — Pour  half  a teaspoonful  of  kerosene  oil  into  each  nostril 
if  the  sheep  are  suffering  with  grubs  in  the  head. 

3.  Preventive. — To  keep  the  gadfly  away  from  the  sheep  put  some  pine- 
tar  on  their  noses  during  the  fly  season. 

TICKS. — The  sheep  tick  is  an  insect  with  which  every  farmer  is  familiar. 
The  female  drops  one  egg  at  a time,  therefore  ticks  do  not  multiply  very 
rapidly.  When  sheep  are  shorn,  kill^the  ticks  or  they  will  get  upon  the  lambs 
for  protection  and  bother  the  flock  for  a whole  year  . 

TREATMENT. — The  same  remedies  recommended  for  scab  will  kill 
ticks.  One  dipping  is  generally  all  that  is  required  to  kill  them. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  TICKS.— 

1.  Sulphur,  Salt  and  Saltpeter. — With  5 pounds  of  salt  mix  1 pound  of 
sulphur  and  i/4  pound  of  saltpeter.  Keep  this  where  the  sheep  can  get  it 
at  all  times  and  they  will  not  be  troubled  with  ticks  or  skin  diseases. 

2.  Sulphur,  Salt  and  Wood  Ashes. — Mix  equal  parts  of  sulphur,  salt 
and  wood  ashes.  Keep  this  mixture  before  the  sheep  all  the  time  and  it  will 
keep  them  in  good  condition  and  prevent  both  ticks  and  fluke  worms. 


SHEEP— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


195 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LOUPING  ILL.— 

1.  Tobacco  and  Salt. — The  louping  ill  is  caused  by  ticks  which  may  be 
removed  by  washing  the  sheep  with  a strong  tea  made  from  tobacco.  Add 
some  salt  to  this  tobacco  tea  and  it  will  be  all  the  more  effective. 

2.  Turpentine. — Turpentine  will  destroy  the  ticks  that  cause  this  trouble. 

3.  Creosote  and  Linseed  Oil. — Wash  the  sheep  with  a solution  of  one 
part  creosote  to  four  parts  linseed  oil. 

INFLAMED  EYES— OPHTHALMIA.— Sheep  are  very  often  troubled 
with  sore  eyes.  Bathe  the  eyes  with  hot  or  cold  water  three  times  a day  for 
thirty  minutes  at  a time  and  apply  a saturated  solution  of  boric  acid.  This 
is  prepared  by  dissolving  all  the  boric  acid  the  water  will  take  up  and  this 
should  be  applied  after  using  the  water.  Another  very  good  eye  wash  is 
made  by  dissolving  4 grains  of  nitrate  of  silver  and  one  grain  of  atropia  in 
one  ounce  of  rain  water.  I have  also  obtained  good  results  by  blowing  some 
calomel  into  the  eyes  occasionally,  when  milder  remedies  had  failed. 

SCAB. — Scab  is  a skin  disease  very  similar  to  mange  in  horses  and  itch 
in  man. 

CAUSES. — It  is  produced  by  a very  small  insect  which  irritates  the  skin 
and  soon  burrows  beneath  the  cuticle,  producing  some  discharge  that  dries 
and  forms  a sort  of  crust  to  protect  these  parasites  and  this  causes  the 
wool  to  slough  off.  These  scab  germs  multiply  quite  rapidly,  producing 
great  irritation  and  emaciation  and  frequently  death. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are  uneasiness  and  trying  to  bite  or  rub 
the  shoulder  or  parts  most  affected,  showing  that  there  must  be  intense 
itching.  If  you  will  examine  the  skin  you  will  see  that  there  is  a watery 
exudation  but  you  will  fail  to  see  the  scab  insects  unless  you  use  a micro- 
scope or  powerful  magnifying  glass.  You  will  soon  notice  several  of  your 
sheep  scratching,  for  scab  is  highly  infectious  and  soon  goes  through  a 
flock.  The  wool  usually  drops  off  in  bunches  leaving  a bare  patch. 

TREATMENT. — In  order  to  cure  scab  you  must  dip  the  sheep  and 
it  should  be  done  thoroughly.  Nearly  all  the  coal-tar  disinfectants  on  the 
market  will  cure  scab,  but  I believe  they  should  not  be  diluted  as  much  as 
their  directions  state.  In  most  cases  make  the  solution  one-third  to  one- 
half  stronger  than  prescribed  and  you  will  lessen  your  work  and  cure  the 
scab  more  quickly.  A very  effectual  dip  is  prepared  by  making  a decoction 
of  tobacco,  twelve  pounds  leaf  tobacco  and  eight  pounds  sulphur  in  fifty  or 
sixty  gallons  of  hot  water.  Dip  the  sheep  in  this  when  it  is  a little  warmer 
than  body  heat,  leaving  the  sheep  in  the  dip  not  less  than  four  or  five  minutes. 
The  United  States  Government  issued  a bulletin  telling  how  to  make  the 
lime  and  sulphur  dip  for  scab  in  sheep  and  you  would  make  no  mistake  in 
sending  for  this  bulletin.  If  you  use  the  lime  and  sulphur  dip,  do  not  leave 
the  sheep  in  the  dip  more  than  two  minutes  at  a timer  It  is  a good  plan  to 
dip  your  sheep  every  ten  days  or  two  weeks  for  four  or  five  weeks.  When 
sheep  are  dipped  for  scab  the  ticks  are  killed.  Galvanized  iron  or  concrete 
dipping  vats  are  the  best. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SCAB.— 

1.  Lard,  Oil  of  Tar  and  Sulphur. — Gradually  mix  % pound  of  oil  of  tar 
with  1 pound  of  sulphur  and  then  add  2 pounds  of  lard  and  rub  together  to 
form  an  ointment.  This  ointment  is  an  effective  remedy  for  scab  in  sheep. 

2.  Tobacco. — Wash  the  sheep  thoroughly  with  strong  tobacco  tea. 


196 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


3.  Wood  Soot  and  Turpentine. — Mix  a little  turpentine  and  wood  soot 
and  add  to  their  grain  when  feeding  if  the  sheep  have  the  scab. 

SWOLLEN  FEET.— 

CAUSES. — When  a sheep  has  a swollen  foot  it  is  generally  the  result  of 
an  injury  of  some  kind,  and  by  close  inspection  you  can  tell  what  is  wrong. 
Very  often  the  biplex  canal  in  the  front  and  upper  part  of  the  foot  becomes 
inflamed  and  red,  causing  the  coronet  and  pastern  to  swell.  When  this  occurs 
the  toes  are  usually  apart  and  the  foot  is  quite  tender.  Examine  the  foot 
for  foreign  bodies  and  treat  as  if  it  were  a case  of  simple  foul.  Sometimes 
a few  applications  of  tincture  of  iodine  will  effect  a cure.  The  coal-tar  dis- 
infectants, when  applied  full  strength,  act  very  well. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  FOUNDER.— 

1.  Castor  Oil  and  Soapsuds. — Give  the  sheep  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
warm  castor  oil  and  inject  the  bowels  with  warm  soapsuds.  This  treatment 
may  be  repeated  in  two  hours  if  necessary. 

2.  Raw  Linseed  Oil  and  Soapsuds. — Inject  the  bowels  with  warm  soap- 
suds and  give  two  tablespoonfuls  of  raw  linseed  oil.  Repeat  in  an  hour  and 
a half  or  two  hours  if  not  relieved. 

FRACTURES  OR  BROKEN  BONES.— When  sheep  fracture  the  limbs, 
the  bones  should  be  put  back  into  place  and  a Paris  plaster  bandage  applied 
and  the  sheep  kept  fairly  quiet.  You  can  purchase  plaster  bandages  already 
prepared  for  use  and  there  is  no  reason  why  farmers  cannot  apply  them. 
Fractures  of  young  sheep  heal  rapidly  and  a bony  union  generally  takes  place 
if  the  bones  are  held  in  position.  Treat  fractures  in  sheep  the  same  as  in 
other  animals. 

DOCKING. — Docking  in  lambs  should  be  done  when  they  are  only  a 
few  days  old  unless  they  are  to  be  marketed  before  they  are  three  months 
old.  The  tail  can  be  cut  off  easily  with  one  stroke  of  a knife  or  with  docking 
pinchers  or  with  a mallet  and  chisel.  In  order  that  the  flesh  may  drop  over 
the  end  of  the  tail  after  it  is  cut  off,  draw  the  skin  and  flesh  well  forward 
towards  the  body,  then  cut  it  off  and  the  flesh  will  drop  over  the  end  of  the 
tail  and  make  a better  looking  tail ; besides,  the  lamb  suffers  less  when  the 
operation  is  performed  in  this  way.  When  the  old  lambs  are  docked  it  is 
necessary  to  cord  tail  them  to  stop  bleeding,  leaving  the  string  on  for  24 
hours.  It  is  also  good  practice  to  apply  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and 
four  parts  of  vaseline  to  the  end  of  the  tail.  When  the  operation  is  per- 
formed, if  the  tail  bleeds  too  much  burn  the  end  with  a red  hot  iron  or  apply 
some  of  Monsel’s  solution  or  apply  either  hot  or  cold  water. 

MAGGOTS  IN  WOUNDS. — Maggots  are  very  likely  to  get  into  wounds 
in  sheep  if  the  sores  are  neglected  and  not  kept  clean  and  properly  treated. 
Blow-flies  are  the  cause. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all,  clean  the  wound  and  apply  one  part  of  car- 
bolic acid  and  thirty  parts  of  water,  or  apply  tincture  of  myrrh ; or,  drop  four 
ounces  of  sugar  of  lead,  three  ounces  of  sulphate  of  zinc,  and  two  ounces  of 
carbolic  acid  into  three  quarts  of  water  and  apply  twice  a day.  Another  very 
good  plan  is  to  clip  off  all  the  wool  tags  which  hold  dirt  and  filth  and  apply 
diluted  carbolic  acid,  adding  a little  turpentine,  camphor  and  asafoetida,  or 
apply  diluted  kerosene. 

WOOL-SHEDDING.— 

CAUSES. — Keeping  sheep  too  warm  and  feeding  them  too  much  stim- 
ulating food  will  cause  them  to  shed  some  wool. 


SHEEP— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


197 


SYMPTOMS. — Whenever  the  wool  commences  to  drop  off  there  is  a 
reason  and  generally  a good  one.  Reduce  their  grain  allowance,  keep  them 
in  a cooler  place  and  salt  them  well,  and  the  wool  will  soon  stop  dropping  off. 
Give  five  drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  of  arsenic  and  thirty  drops  of  fluid  ex- 
tract of  sarsaparilla  at  a dose  in  feed  twice  a day,  or  give  % teaspoonful  baking 
soda  at  a dose  twice  a day.  It  is  also  a good  plan  to  feed  some,  vegetables  and 
in  some  cases  give  fifteen  grains  of  sulphur  at  a dose  in  feed  twice  a day,  or 
give  some  saltpeter. 

HYDROPHOBIA — RABIES. — Hydrophobia,  or  rabies,  is  quite  common 
in  sheep  for  if  bitten  by  a mad  dog  or  other  rabid  animal  they  seem  to  be 
easily  infected.  As  there  is  no  remedy  for  this  ailment  all  sheep  bitten  should 
be  destroyed  for  fear  of  their  doing  damage.  The  preventive  is  altogether  too 
expensive  to  apply  to  sheep  but  it  should  be  given  to  man  if  he  has  been  bitten 
by  any  animal  that  has  rabies. 

TETANUS— LOCKJAW.— 

CAUSES. — It  must  be  understood  that  tetanus  is  caused  by  a germ  which 
makes  its  way  into  the  circulation  or  blood  of  an  animal  or  person.  The  most 
common  abode  for  this  bacillus  is  in  rich  fertile  garden  soil  or  filth ; therefore, 
in  treating  wounds  on  animals  they  should  be  protected  so  as  to  make  it  im- 
possible for  these  germs  to  enter  the  body. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  great  stiffness,  locking  of  the  jaws,  hardening  of 
the  muscles  and  quick  breathing.  The  sheep  is  unable  to  walk  and  generally 
dies  in  a day  or  two. 

TREATMENT. — The  best  drugs  to  give  partial  relief  are  belladonna  or 
henbane  (hyoscyamus)  but  it  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  we  have  no  certain 
remedy  for  tetanus,  but  we  can  prevent  it  by  immunizing  the  animal  for  a 
few  weeks  when  he  suffers  from  a wound  low  down  on  the  body. 


HOGS 


DISEASES  OF  THE  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 

(Including  Indigestion,  Diarrhea,  Constipation,  Worms,  Fits  in  Pigs, 
Rupture,  Liver  Disease,  Black  Teeth,  Hog  Cholera,  Etc.) 


THE  STOMACH  OF  THE  PIG. — The  stomach  of  the  pig  is  simple,  yet 
it  performs  the  functions  of  both  carnivorous  and  ruminating  animals.  The 
saliva  of  the  pig  is  quite  active,  continuing  after  it  reaches  the  stomach  to  assist 
in  digesting  starchy  food.  Therefore,  the  pig  fattens  on  cereals  more  rapidly 
than  other  animals  but  it  takes  him  longer  to  digest  meat  than  it  does  the 
carnivora  and,  as  he  does  not  masticate  vegetables  as  well  as  herbiverous  and 
ruminating  animals,  he  does  not  extract  the  same  nutriment  from  them  that 
they  do.  The  intestines  of  a hog  are  not  nearly  so  sensitive  as  those  of  the 
horse;  therefore,  they  are  less  likely  to  become  diseased.  The  stomach  of  the 
hog  possesses  wonderful  digestive  powers. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  STOMACH— GASTRITIS.— In  all  mild 
cases  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  stomach  is  inflamed  but  in  severe  cases  the 
muscular  parts  are  involved.  This  is  not  a very  common  ailment  in  hogs 
on  account  of  their  stomachs  not  being  easily  inflamed. 

CAUSES. — Gastritis  is  generally  the  result  of  giving  caustic  or  irritating 
drugs  and  is  often  associated  with  other  ailments. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  generally  some  vomiting,  more  or  less  pain  and 
uneasiness,  and  some  thirst.  The  end  of  the  nose  is  dry,  as  is  also  the  skin ; 
the  urine  is  of  a brown  color;  the  tongue  is  covered  with  a fur  and  the  pig 
sometimes  coughs.  In  some  cases  of  eastritis  the  hog  lives  only  a few  hours, 
that  is,  if  he  has  been  poisoned  with  drugs. 

TREATMENT. — Give  carbonate  of  soda  if  he  has  been  given  acid  and 
give  vinegar  to  counteract  the  efifect  of  an  alkali ; or,  give  milk  if  you  have 
nothing  else,  adding  25  or  30  drops  of  tincture  of  opium.  Let  him  have  plenty 
of  cold  water  and  if  he  is  weak  give  him  some  black  coffee  and  whiskey.  If 
you  believe  he  is  full  of  indigestible  food  give  two  ounces  of  castor  oil  to  clean 
him  out.  If  there  is  very  much  vomiting,  give  20  drops  of  the  medicinal  solu- 
tion of  prussic  acid,  or  a few  drops  of  wine  of  ipecac,  or  some  strong  black 
coffee.  After  the  acute  symptoms  pass  off  give  plenty  of  milk  and  water  with 
some  oatmeal  added. 

INDIGESTION.— 

CAUSES. — The  pig  very  often  suffers  from  attacks  of  indigestion  for 
want  of  exercise,  because  of  being  fed  too  long  on  one  kind  of  food  or  because 
of  eating  decomposed  meat  or  food  of  poor  quality. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  either  partial  or  complete  loss  of  appetite  in 
most  cases ; however,  I have  known  them  to  crave  filthy  food  that  they  would 
not  care  for  when  well.  This  shows  it  to  be  a sort  of  acidity  of  the  stomach 
and  the  hog  was  hunting  to  find  a remedy.  The  bowels  are  either  costive  or 
too  loose.  In  some  cases  the  pig  coughs  and  in  young  pigs  they  often  have 

198 


hogs— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


199 


fits.  In  most  cases  they  have  some  fever  and  the  urine  is  scanty  and  of  a 
brown  color. 

TREATMENT. — In  most  cases  it  is  good  practice  to  give  a cathartic,  es- 
pecially if  the  hog  is  constipated.  If  the  bowels  are  loose,  give  castor  oil  or 
raw  linseed  oil  and  if  costive,  give  epsom  salts.  The  dose  of  salts  is  from  one 
to  two  ounces  and  castor  oil  is  given  in  the  same  quantity ; however,  in  all 
cases  you  must  use  your  own  good  judgment  as  to  the  dose.  Tincture  of 
rhubarb  and  tincture  of  opium  and  ginger  act  well  in  cases  of  too  much  bowel 
action.  If  the  pig  is  troubled  with  vomiting  give  him  one-half  teacupful  of 
strong  black  coffee,  or  two  or  three  drops  of  wine  of  ipecac,  or  twelve  drops 
of  nitro-muriatic  acid  in  a little  water  or  give  five  drops  of  creosote  or  carbolic 
acid  in  cold  water.  Ginger,  peppermint  and  baking  soda  are  all  remedies  which 
assist  in  correcting  stomach  disorders.  Powdered  wood  charcoal  is  another 
simple  home  remedy  that  always  helps  hogs  with  indigestion. 

ACUTE  INDIGESTION. — Acute  indigestion  follows  fast  eating  of  food 
to  which  the  animal  is  unaccustomed ; eating  too  much  at  a time ; or  from  a 
fermentation  of  what  the  animal  has  eaten,  causing  bloating  and  great  distress. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a teaspoonful  of  hypo-sulphite  of  soda  every  hour 
until  the  bloat  goes  down,  or  give  a tablespoonful  of  aromatic  spirits  of  am- 
monia every  hour.  Do  not  give  baking  soda  for  bloat  as  this  is  a mistake  that 
is  often  made  by  stock  raisers.  After  the  acute  attack  passes  off  give  a table- 
spoonful of  powdered  charcoal  and  a teaspoonful  of  ginger  at  a dose  in  feed 
two  or  three  times  a dav. 

CHRONIC  INDIGESTION— STUNTED.— Changing  young  pigs  from 
their  mothers’  milk  to  grain  stunts  a great  many  of  them ; also,  when  grain  is 
taken  away  from  pigs  and  an  insufficient  quantity  of  nutritious  food  is  furn- 
ished them  they  may  become  stunted.  It  can  be  safely  stated  that  nearly  all 
pigs  are  wormy ; some  of  them  have  far  too  many  worms  and  when  you  see  a 
pig  eating  plenty  of  rich  nourishing  food  and  not  growing  but  seemingly 
getting  thinner  you  can  safely  suspect  him  of  having  lots  of  worms. 

TREATMENT. — If  you  believe  he  is  wormy,  treat  for  worms;  if  he  is 
sick,  try  to  diagnose  his  ailment  and  treat  for  it ; however,  it  is  generally  well 
to  give  him  a dose  of  castor  oil  and  a teaspoonful  of  the  following  compound 
condition  powder  for  hogs.  Take  equal  parts  by  weight  of  ground  gentian 
root,  ground  ginger,  baking  soda  and  powdered  charcoal,  and  in  some  cases 
add  powdered  copperas.  A dose  should  be  given  in  feed  three  times  a day,  also 
salt  them  well.  It  is  needless  to  speak  of  the  importance  of  feeding  a good 
quality  of  food  until  they  commence  to  grow. 

MORBID  APPETITE. — Hogs  that  eat  enormous  quantities-  of  food  or 
that  eat  rubbish  unfit  for  any  animal  to  eat  are  in  an  abnormal  condition  and 
seldom  lay  on  flesh.  In  many  cases  it  is  due  to  acidity  of  the  stomach. 

TREATMENT. — In  all  such  cases  the  stomach  should  be  rested  and  the 
hog  put  on  an  easily  digested  diet.  Mix  equal  parts  by  weight  of  powdered 
sulphate  of  iron,  ground  gentian,  ginger,  baking  soda  and  charcoal,  and  give 
the  hog  a teaspoonful  at  a dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times  a day.  In  many 
cases  it  is  good  practice  to  give  a cathartic  of  either  epsom  salts  or  castor 
oil  to  open  the  bowels. 

ENTERITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BOWELS.— Enteritis  is 
an  inflammation  of  the  bowels ; however,  in  most  cases  only  a portion  of  the 
bowels  are  inflamed.  This  is  quite  a fatal  ailment  in  pigs. 

CAUSES. — It  is  often  the  result  of  constipation,  colds,  injuries,  eating 


200  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOIVlE  STOCK  BOOK. 

irritating  substances  and  drinking  impure  water  and  it  may  result  from  other 
diseases. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite,  thirst,  fever,  pain,  dryness  of  the 
mouth,  looseness  of  the  bowels  with  some  blood,  sometimes  vomiting,  and  al- 
ways some  weakness. 

TREATMENT. — When  the  bowels  are  too  loose  give  twenty  or  thirty 
drops  of  tincture  of  opium  and  when  they  are  costive  give  epsom  salts.  Very 
often  it  helps  to  give  four  tablespoonfuls  of  castor  oil  to  clear  out  the  stomach 
and  bowels.  In  some  cases  small  doses  of  calomel  help  to  effect  a cure. 
Apply  mustard  and  water  to  the  abdomen  every  day  and,  if  it  is  possible,  keep 
the  hog  or  pig  on  liquid  food  for  a few  days. 

COLIC. — Colic  in  hogs  is  not  a very  common  ailment  and  when  it  does 
occur  it  is  generally  the  result  of  changing  from  a digestible  diet  to  one  that  is 
less  so,  thereby  causing  fermentation,  and  it  also  follows  exposure. 

SYMPTOMS. — Sitting  on  haunches,  shifting  position,  moving  head  from 
side  to  side,  sometimes  bloating,  grunting,  and  squealing  are  symptoms. 

TREATMENT. — Any  home  colic  remedy  acts  well  on  the  hog.  Give 
laudanum  in  twenty-drop  doses.  Essence  of  peppermint,  ginger,  whiskey, 
aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  or  some  camphorated  tincture  of  opium  will  help 
to  give  relief. 

VOMITING. — Vomiting  is  the  act  of  ejecting  food  or  material  from  the 
stomach,  accomplished  by  contraction  of  the  stomach  with  perhaps  some  con- 
traction of  the  diaphragm  and  abdominal  muscles. 

CAUSES. — It  is  generally  the  result  of  an  irritation  or  inflammation  of 
the  stomach ; however,  it  may  also  be  the  result  of  some  nervous  disorder. 

TREATMENT. — Without  knowing  the  cause  it  is  not  an  easy  matter  to 
tell  what  to  give ; however,  try  coffee,  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia,  pepper- 
mint, laudanum,  ginger,  wine  of  ipecac,  a few  drops  of  creosote  or  carbolic 
acid  in  water,  or  soda  or  a few  drops  of  chloroform. 

BLEEDING  FROM  THE  STOMACH.--Bleeding  from  the  stomach  is 
generally  attended  with  vomiting  of  blood  but  is  not  very  common  in  the  pig. 

CAUSES. — It  is  most  likely  the  result  of  injuries.  It  may  be  caused 
by  swallowing  a bone  with  a sharp  end  and  thus  wounding  the  stomach. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite  and  vomiting  or  passing  of  blood. 
Examine  the  blood  and  if  dark  colored  and  mixed  with  some  food  it  comes 
from  the  stomach,  while  if  it  is  from  the  lungs  it  will  be  of  a brighter  red  color. 

TREATMENT. — Drop  a grain  or  two  of  sugar  of  lead  and  ten  drops  of 
laudanum  into  a teaspoonful  of  cold  water  and  give  this  quantity  at  a dose 
every  two  or  three  hours ; or  give  a teaspoonful  of  fluid  extract  of  ergot ; or 
give  ten  or  fifteen  drops  of  Monsell’s  solution  in  water  every  two  or  three 
hours. 

DIARRHEA.— 

CAUSES. — Diarrhea  is  caused  by  eating  food  that  ferments,  eating  irri- 
tating things,  too  much  action  of  the  liver,  effete  material  in  the  blood,  or  too 
much  exercise  on  a hot  day.  In  fact,  when  the  stomach  is  full,  any  cause 
which  will  produce  excessive  bowel  action  may  cause  diarrhea.  Weakness  of 
the  bowels  may  be  the  cause  and  young  pigs  very  often  scour  on  account  of 
their  mothers  eating  certain  kinds  of  food.  Diarrhea  is  not  really  a disease 
but  a result  of  other  ailments. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  simple  cases  the  bowels  act  too  freely  and  the  excre- 
ment is  liquid  but  there  is  no  disease.  When  there  is  much  pain  or  loss  of 


HOGS— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


201 


appetite  or  when  the  liver  is  much  affected  the  passages  will  be  of  a yellow 
color  and  when  there  is  vomiting  and  straining  it  is  very  often  due  to  too 
much  acid. 

TREATMENT. — If  you  can  tell  what  caused  this  bowel  trouble  and  re- 
move it  they  soon  get  well.  Give  a small  dose  of  castor  oil  or  sweet  oil  to 
clean  out  the  stomach  and  bowels  and  follow  this  with  fifteen  or  twenty  drops 
of  spirits  of  camphor  and  twenty  or  twenty-five  drops  of  laudanum  and  repeat 
these  doses  every  two  or  three  hours  until  the  excessive  bowel  movements  are 
checked.  When  the  purging  has  been  going  on  for  some  time  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  give  oil.  I have  given  a grain  of  powdered  opium  and  four  grains  of 
sugar  of  lead  every  three  hours  and  found  that  it  acted  well.  All  home  reme- 
dies that  are  given  in  human  practice  for  diarrhea  can  be  given  to  hogs  v/ith 
equally  good  results. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SCOURS  IN  PIGS.— 

1.  Copperas. — Give  the  sow  % teaspoonful  of  copperas  in  a little  swill. 
Do  not  feed  her  much  slop  until  after  the  pigs  are  weaned. 

2.  Air-Slaked  Lime. — Give  the  pig  a tablespoonful  of  air-slaked  lime  two 
or  three  times  a week  in  the  slop. 

DYSENTERY. — Dysentery  is  an  inflammation  of  the  mucous  membrane 
of  the  bowels  with  frequent  bowel  movements  and  with  some  blood  in  the 
excrement  and  some  scales  of  mucus.  There  is  also  some  bowel  pain. 

CAUSES. — It  often  follows  eating  putrid,  rotten  meat  or  decayed  vege- 
tables and  lying  in  cold  damp  places.  W orms,  a torpid  liver,  and  constipation 
also  cause  it. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  some  uneasiness,  dullness,  loss  of  appetite,  and 
some  pain,  and  there  are  passages  of  dry  excrement  at  first,  then  the  move- 
ments are  thin  and  tinged  with  either  mucus  or  blood.  There  is  always  some 
fever  and  some  bloating  and  the  longer  the  disease  lasts  the  stronger  will  be 
the  smell  of  the  excrement. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a good  large  dose  of  castor  oil  to  clean  out  the 
stomach  and  bowels ; also  give  calomel  and  a few  grains  of  powdered  opium, 
or  25  drops  of  laudanum.  A teaspoonful  of  ginger,  three  grains  of  quinine, 
or  one  ounce  of  whiskey  in  the  last  part  of  their  sickness  does  them  good. 
Give  three  times  a day. 

CONSTIPATION. — The  bowels  of  hogs  should  move  about  so  often 
and  if  they  do  not  we  say  they  are  constipated.  Constipation  soon  causes 
the  bowels  to  become  somewhat  impaired  and  unfit  to  perform  their  normal 
work. 

CAUSES. — An  accumulation  of  hard  excrement  or  other  substance  in 
the  bowels  is  often  brought  on  by  over-feeding  and  under  exercising  of  hogs 
and  if  not  relieved  produces  irritation  and  inflammation. 

TREATMENT. — Give  castor  oil  in  two-ounce  doses  every  twelve  hours 
until  relief  is  obtained ; or  give  epsom  salts  with  some  senna  added ; or  give 
any  of  the  reliable  compound  cathartic  pills  which  are  used  by  man  and  they 
will  give  good  results.  If  the  pig  is  weak  give  tonics  and  stimulants.  Give 
food  of  a laxative  nature  for  a few  days  after  an  attack  of  constipation  and  be 
sure  to  exercise  the  hog. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CONSTIPATION.— 

1.  Salt  and  Wood-Ashes. — Feed  plenty  of  salt  and  wood  ashes  and  the 
hogs  will  not  be  troubled  with  constipation. 


202 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


2.  Epsom  Salts. — Give  four  ounces  of  epsom  salts  if  the  hogs  are  con- 
stipated. Also  give  an  injection. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LAMENESS.— 

1.  Sulphur  and  Epsom  Salts. — To  a very  large  hog  give  two  teaspoon- 
fuls each  of  sulphur  and  epsom  salts  in  the  feed  three  times  a day  until  the 
bowels  are  thoroughly  opened. 

2.  Salt  and  Ashes. — Keep  salt  and  wood  ashes  before  the  hogs  all  the 
time  and  they  will  be  troubled  with  neither  lameness  nor  constipation. 

OBSTRUCTION  OF  THE  BOWELS. — By  obstruction  of  the  bowels 
is  meant  their  blocking  with  some  impediment,  preventing  the  free  passage 
of  feces. 

CAUSES. — The  hog  very  often  eats  food  of  an  indigestible  nature  and 
frequently  picks  up  coal  and  cinders.  Besides,  concretions  seem  to  form  in 
the  bowels  and  tumors  grow  and  obstruct  the  passage  of  excrement. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  attack  may  come  on  suddenly,  creating  severe  pain 
and  uneasiness.  There  is  some  vomiting  and  bloating,  followed  by  inflamma- 
tion of  the  bowels  and  death. 

TREATMENT. — Give  two  ounces  of  castor  oil  or  three  ounces  of  raw 
linseed  oil  or  epsom  salts  and  some  senna.  If  the  oil  fails  to  act  add  three 
drops  of  croton  oil ; however,  it  should  be  remembered  that  croton  oil  is  a 
drug  that  will  kill  if  too  much  is  given.  Give  injections  of  soap  and  warm 
water  with  some  sweet  oil  added.  If  vomiting  is  severe  give  black  coffee  or 
two  or  three  drops  of  wine  of  ipecac  or  any  simple  home  remedy  that  will 
warm  up  the  stomach.  The  custom  of  feeding  coal  and  coal  cinders  to  hogs 
is  altogether  too  common. 

INTERNAL  PARASITES— WORMS.— Nearly  all  young  pigs  have  a 
few  worms  and  I might  safely  say  the  same  regarding  old  hogs.  This  is  the 
result  of  our  methods  of  feeding  pigs.  Much  of  the  food  is  fed  without 
being  cooked  and  the  meat  which  they  very  often  eat  is  full  of  ova  which 
soon  grow  and  develop  into  worms  after  the  hog  has  eaten  them. 

CAUSES. — The  habits  of  hogs  render  them  more  liable  to  worms  than  are 
many  other  animals.  The  ova  when  taken  into  the  stomach  and  bowels,  meet- 
ing moisture  and  heat,  seem  to  grow  and  as  the  hog  eats  all  kinds  of  raw 
vegetables  and  meat  it  is  no  wonder  he  is  wormy;  besides,  he  sometimes  has 
indigestion  and  this  favors  their  growth. 

SYMPTOMS. — On  account  of  the  worms’  movements  in  the  stomach 
and  bowels  they  seem  to  produce  some  irritation,  bringing  on  a certain  amount 
of  pain  and  uneasiness.  There  is  itching  of  the  anus  and  nose,  also  rubbing 
of  the  tail  and  rooting  with  the  nose.  The  bowels  are  either  costive  or  too 
loose  and  sometimes  a little  blood  can  be  seen  in  the  excrement  and  sometimes 
shreds  of  mucus  may  be  seen  and  if  the  microscope  is  used  you  will  see  the 
small  worms  or  their  eggs.  Worms  derange  the  nervous  system,  causing  ver- 
tigo, chorea,  coughing,  fits,  fever,  loss  of  flesh  and  skin  diseases. 

TREATMENT. — When  treating  pigs  for  worms  the  stomach  and  bowels 
should  not  be  too  full.  Fairly  good  results  follow  giving  some  charcoal 
and  hard  wood  ashes  or  sulphate  of  iron  in  the  feed.  Others  give  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  turpentine  in  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  raw  linseed  oil 
and  still  others  give  fluid  extract  of  spigelia  and  senna  in  tablespoonful  doses 
every  four  or  five  hours  until  the  pig  purges,  then  discontinue  its  use.  Some 
give  twenty  grains  of  powdered  cedar  apple.  Areca  nut  is  sometimes  given; 


hogs— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


203 


also  powdered  kamala  and  pumpkin  seeds  are  beneficial.  I am  told  that  hogs 
which  eat  pumpkins  and  carrots  are  seldom  bothered  with  worms. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  WORMS.— 

1.  Turpentine. — Every  third  day,  until  four  doses  have  been  taken,  give 
a teaspoonful  of  turpentine  in  milk  in  the  morning  before  feeding. 

. 2.  Gentian  and  Iron. — Give  a dram  each  of  ground  gentian  and  sulphate 

of  iron  in  the  feed  once  a day. 

3.  Santonine. — Give  five  or  ten-grain  doses  of  santonine. 

FITS  IN  YOUNG  PIGS.— 

CAUSES. — It  is  safe  to  say  that  fits  in  young  pigs  are  often  the  result  of 
worms,  or  of  over-feeding  and  want  of  exercise. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  first  symptom  is  an  unthrifty  condition.  The  legs 
tremble  and  shake  and  the  head  and  neck  bend.  The  pig  soon  becomes  rigid 
and  falls  over  and  struggles  some,  then  remains  quiet  for  a few  moments  and 
then  gets  up  and  acts  as  though  perfectly  well,  only  to  have  another  sick  spell 
sometime  later.  Pigs  two  or  three  months  old  should  be  given  twenty  grains 
of  powdered  kamala  and  a dessert  spoonful  of  castor  oil.  Or,  give  twenty 
drops  of  turpentine  in  two  ounces  of  raw  linseed  oil  and  it  may  be  necessary  to 
give  more  than  one  dose  but  not  sooner  than  24  hours.  Young  pigs  should 
be  given  some  gentian,  ginger  and  copperas  in  their  feed  twice  a day. 
PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  KIDNEY-WORMS  IN  HOGS.— 

1.  Lye  and  Turpentine. — Rub  the  back  with  turpentine  and  two  or  three 
times  a day  give  in  slop  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  weak  lye  made  from 
wood  ashes. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  WEAK  BACK.— 

1.  Turpentine. — Rub  turpentine  on  the  back.  One  application  is  usually 
sufficient. 

PERITONITIS  (INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  PERITONEUM).— 

Peritonitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  membrane  that  lines  the  abdominal  cav- 
ity and  which  is  reflected  over  the  intestines. 

CAUSES. — It  sometimes  follows  castration,  chills,  kicks  from  horses, 
hooks  from  cattle,  bunts  from  rams  and  punctures  through  the  abdomen. 
Sometimes  it  follows  farrowing  and  the  penetration  of  foreign  bodies  into  the 
bowels.  It  may  result  from  other  diseases  such  as  swine  plague  and  cholera. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  hog  has  chills,  pain,  tender  abdomen,  bloating,  vomit- 
ing, quick  pulse,  fever  and  short  breathing  and  if  the  pain  increases  death  usu- 
ally follows  but  if  the  pain  subsides  it  is  a favorable  indication  of  recovery. 

TREATMENT. — Give  either  castor  oil  or  sulphate  of  magnesia  but  never 
give  aloes.  A dose  or  two  of  calomel  will  do  good.  Give  opium  to  allay  the 
pain ; also  give  eggs  and  milk  to  support  their  strength.  When  there  is  much 
weakness  give  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  and  whiskey. 

UMBILICAL  HERNIA. — What  is  usually  understood  by  hernia  is  a 
projection  of  the  bowels  through  an  opening,  either  natural  or  artificial,  or  a 
rupture  of  the  walls  of  any  organ.  Hernia  is  classified  according  to  its  posi- 
tion, but  the  kind  most  common  to  the  pig  is  either  umbilical  (navel)  or  scrotal. 
It  is  very  common  to  find  the  omentum  or  intestine  protruding  through  the 
umbilicus,  caused  by  a failure  of  the  navel  to  close  early. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a soft  pufipy  bunch  at  the  navel,  which,  if  pressed, 
will  return  through  the  opening  and  pass  back  into  the  body.  This  rupture,  if 
small,  seldom  causes  the  pig  any  trouble  unless  it  becomes  strangulated  and 
if  it  does  not  it  is  seldom  necessary  to  do  anything  for  it. 


204 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


TREATMENT. — A simple  and  quite  successful  way  to  operate  is  to  roll 
the  pig  on  his  back,  press  the  omentum  and  bowel  back  into  place,  pick  up  the 
loose  skin,  put  a skewer  through  the  sack  or  pouch  of  hide  close  to  the  ab- 
domen and  then  another  one  at  right  angles;  then  tie  a string  close  to  the 
body  back  of  these  pins.  This  chokes  the  circulation,  the  opening  in  the  ab- 
domen fills  with  serum  and  the  parts  swell  and  close  and  soon  unite.  In  a 
week  or  ten  days  the  pouch  of  skin  sloughs  ofif  and  your  pig  is  well.  I have 
operated  on  hundreds  and  seldom  had  a failure  unless  the  bunch  was  very 
large.  Be  sure  to  dip  the  pins  into  carbolic  acid  and  water  and  do  not  tie 
the  cord  too  tight. 

SCROTAL  PIERNIA. — Scrotal  hernia  is  where  the  bowel  has  passed 
through  the  canal  into  the  scrotum,  or  pouch. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  scrotum  is  too  large  and  when  pressed  feels  soft  and 
dough-like. 

TREATMENT. — Roll  the  pig  on  his  back;  return  the  intestine;  pull  up 
the  scrotum  and  testicles  as  far  as  you  can ; then  apply  a wooden  clamp 
(without  caustic).  Let  it  remain  on  until  the  parts  slough  ofif,  then  apply 
equal  parts  of  iodoform  and  boric  acid  or  one  part  of  carbolic  acid  and  thirty 
parts  of  water  twice  daily. 

STRICTURE  OF  THE  RECTUM. — Stricture  of  the  rectum  should  be 
suspected  whenever  a pig  is  found  straining  and  is  unable  to  empty  the  bowel 
and  if  an  examination  is  made  the  cause  will  generally  be  found.  The  bowel 
wall  may  be  thickened  or  falling  of  the  bowel  may  have  taken  place  or  there 
may  be  a tumor  or  stricture. 

TREATMENT. — The  first  step  should  be  to  wash  out  the  bowel  with 
soap  and  warm  water  and  then  apply  one  part  of  solid  extract  of  belladonna 
and  six  parts  of  vaseline,  or  one  part  of  fluid  extract  of  belladonna  and  twenty 
parts  of  water,  and  inject  two  ounces  into  the  bowel  daily.  Plenty  of  vaseline 
or  fresh  lard  applied  to  the  inside  of  the  bowel  gives  good  results. 

HEMORRHOIDS  OR  PILES. — Hemorrhoids  are  soft  tumors  that  bleed 
easily  and  are  found  in  or  near  the  anus.  When  they  do  not  bleed  they  are 
called  blind  piles  and  of  course  are  either  visible  or  invisible.  The  soft 
bunches  are  often  varicose  veins  forming  a sort  of  tumor ; the  others  contain 
coagulated  blood  and  in  either  case  they  annoy  the  animal. 

TREATMENT. — Always  give  the  pig  a cathartic  of  aloes,  calomel  and 
ginger  or  give  castor  oil,  or  epsom  salts  and  senna.  Fill  the  rectum  full  of 
cold  water,  adding  a little  tannic  acid  to  the  water.  It  is  sometimes  necessary 
to  open  these  tumors  and  squeeze  out  the  blood.  When  this  is  done  open  with 
a narrow  knife  in  several  places  and  apply  sugar  of  lead  and  water  several  times 
a dav.  Sometimes  hot  applications  act  well. 

PROLAPSUS  ANI— FALLING  OF  THE  BOWEL.— 

CAUSES.— Prolapsus  ani  is  generally  the  result  of  a weakness  of  the 
muscles  of  the  bowels  but  is  sometimes  the  result  of  constipation  and  strain- 
ing. It  also  follows  excessive  bowel  action  such  as  people  have  in  diarrhea 
and  dysentery  when  there  is  a smarting  of  the  bowels  every  time  they  move. 
The  longer  the  bowel  protrudes  the  more  difificult  it  is  to  effect  a cure. 

TREATMENT. — Give  twenty  drops  of  laudanum  every  few  hours  to 
stop  the  straining.  Foment  the  swelling  with  hot  water  an  hour  at  a time ; or 
put  one  dram  of  sulphate  of  zinc,  two  drams  of  acetate  of  lead  and  two  ounces 
of  tincture  of  opium  into  twenty  ounces  of  cold  water  and  apply  to  the  swell- 
ing every  hour  until  the  swelling  reduces;  then  return  the  bowel  to  its  place 


hogs— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


305 


and  put  the  hog  in  a narrow  stall  with  the  head  three  or  four  inches  lower 
than  the  hind  quarters  for  a day  or  two.  By  keeping  him  in  this  position  the 
bowel  will  not  need  stitching  but  will  fall  back  into  its  normal  position.  In- 
jections of  soap  and  warm  water  should  be  given  and  the  bowels  kept  open. 
If  you  fail  to  return  the  bowel  have  it  cut  off  and  sewed  to  the  margin  of  the 
anus  and  if  done  properly  it  will  unite. 

LIVER  DISEASE. — The  casual  observer  is  seldom  capable  of  diagnos- 
ing correctly  a case  of  liver  disease.  Inflammation  of  the  liver  is  brought 
on  by  feeding  too  much  rich,  nutritious  food  and  allowing  the  animal  to  have 
no  exercise.  It  is  most  common  in  hot  weather. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  dullness,  constipation,  some  cough  and  yellow 
mucous  membranes. 

TREATMENT. — This  ailment  should  have  prompt^  energetic  treatment 
for  if  not  it  may  bring  on  other  ailments.  Purge  the  pig  with  epsom  salts  and 
give  small  doses  of  calomel  to  act  on  the  liver  and  bowels.  Sometimes  castor 
oil  acts  well  and  if  the  pig  is  in  much  pain  give  calomel  and  opium  several 
times  daily. 

JAUNDICE — YELLOWS. — Jaundice  is  not  a common  disease  of  the 
pig.  It  is  known  by  the  yellow  appearance  of  the  pig  which  is  the  result  of 
absorption  of  bile. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite,  dullness,  vomiting  and  deranged 
digestion.  The  excrement  is  of  a clay  color  and  the  bowels  are  costive. 

TREATMENT. — Give  either  castor  oil  or  sulphate  of  magnesia ; also  give 
small  doses  of  calomel,  podophyllin,  phosphate  of  soda  and  hot  water;  or  give 
twelve  drops  of  nitro-muriatic  acid  two  or  three  times  a day. 

SPORADIC  APHTHA  — GLOSS  ANTHRAX  — GUM  MpUTH.— 
Sporadic  Aphtha  is  a vesicular  eruption  of  the  tongue,  cheeks  and  lips.  It  is 
very  often  called  gloss  anthrax  or  gum  mouth. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite  and  some  fever  and  there  are 
pustules  on  the  tongue  and  lips. 

TREATMENT. — Give  three  grains  of  quinine,  forty  drops  of  gentian  and 
one-half  ounce  of  whiskey  at  a dose  five  times  a day.  Use  alum  and  water,  one 
ounce  of  alum  to  one  quart  of  water,  and  apply  to  the  mouth  three  times  a 
day.  When  the  mouth  is  only  slightly  inflamed  apply  borax  and  water,  an 
ounce  of  borax  to  a quart  of  water.  Wash  the  mouth  with  this  three  times  a 
day.  Feed  gruel  made  of  meal  and  milk  or  give  eggs,  milk  and  whiskey  if  the 
pig  is  weak.  Also  be  sure  to  keep  the  hog  in  a clean  dry  place. 

BLACK  TEETH. — Black  teeth  is  supposed  by  many  hog  raisers  to  be  a 
disease ; however,  the  veterinary  profession  is  pretty  thoroughly  agreed  that 
they  are  mistaken  and  the  author  shares  this  same  belief,  for  he  has  not  yet 
been  able  to  connect  it  with  any  sickness.  It  seems  to  be  natural  for  some 
pigs  to  have  black  teeth  and  many  of  them  never  have  a sick  day ; besides,  at 
our  large  slaughter  houses  many  of  the  finest  hogs  killed  have  black  teeth 
and  they  never  harmed  the  hog.  My  advise  to  swine  breeders  is  to  leave  them 
alone  unless  they  are  decayed  and  if  so,  pull  them  out  with  a pair  of  forceps 
or  nippers. 

CHOKING. — Sometimes  hogs  choke  when  attempting  to  swallow  too 
large  a piece  of  vegetable  or  other  hard  substance. 


206 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


TREATMENT. — When  called  upon  to  relieve  choke  in  hogs  give  some 
raw  linseed  oil,  melted  lard  or  glycerine  with  ten  or  fifteen  drops  of  fluid  extract 
of  belladonna  added.  If  the  obstruction  does  not  go  down,  open  the  mouth 
with  a gag  and  remove  the  obstruction  with  splint  forceps  or  tongs  made  of 
wood  or  try  to  work  the  obstruction  down.  It  may  be  necessary  to  use  a 
probang. 

HOG  CHOLERA  AND  SWINE  PLAGUE.— The  terms  “ hog  cholera  ” 
and  “ swine  plague  ” have  come  into  general  use  among  breeders  and  raisers 
of  hogs  and  the  supposition  that  these  two  diseases  are  entirely  different  is 
wrong  for  they  are  very  similar  both  in  cause  and  symptoms.  Until  recently 
we  were  led  to  suppose  them  to  be  two  separate  infectious  diseases  but  to 
save  time  and  confusion  let  us  consider  them  as  one  disease  for  to  distinguish 
the  difference  requires  the  services  of  an  expert  to  examine  the  body  after 
death. 

CAUSES. — Hog  cholera  and  swine  plague  are  no  doubt  caused  by  a 
germ  so  small  as  not  to  be  visible  with  the  microscope  and  these  germs  pass 
readily  through  filters.  Our  old  theories  have  been  very  much  changed  by  the 
excellent  work  done  in  recent  years  by  the  government  and  different  state 
experiment  stations.  It  is  well  to  know  that  infection  is  absolutely  necessary 
to  produce  the  disease  and  without  it  there  can  be  no  hog  cholera  or  swine 
plague.  Certain  hogs  may  resist  this  infection  better  than  others;  however,  it 
makes  no  difference  how  susceptible  they  may  be  they  never  take  hog  cholera 
without  being  subjected  to  this  one  specific  cause.  The  hogs  raised  in  certain 
localities  under  certain  conditions  seem  to  possess  less  power'  of  resistance 
than  others.  “ Show  ” hogs  that  have  been  pampered  and  their  growth  forced 
and  also  corn-fed  hogs  that  are  kept  closely  housed  in  damp,  badly  ventilated 
pens  appear  to  be  quite  liable  to  cholera  infection. 

Everyone  who  raises  hogs  should  bear  in  mind  that  the  living  organisms 
under  favorable  conditions  multiply  rapidly  and  are  carried  from  place  to  place 
in  very  small  particles  of  filth.  It  is  also  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  there  are 
scores  of  different  ways  whereby  this  affection  may  be  carried  from  place  to 
place.  It  may  be  carried  by  sick  hogs,  upon  the  legs  and  bodies  of  well  ones 
that  have  been  exposed,  carried  on  wagons,  in  stock  cars,  upon  the  shoes  and 
even  clothing  of  people  and  it  has  been  known  to  be  carried  down  streams  for 
miles.  It  can  be  safely  stated  that  both  the  blood  and  manure  of  hogs  suffering 
from  cholera,  and  also  the  dead  carcasses  are  highly  infectious  to  other  hogs. 

SYMPTOMS. — A single  case  of  hog  cholera  never  presents  all  the  symp- 
toms of  the  disease  for  cases  vary  in  virulence  and  some  acute  cases  run  their 
course  rapidly,  terminating  in  death  in  a day  or  two  while  other  cases  assume 
a chronic  form,  the  sick  hogs  living  for  weeks.  A hog  infected  with  cholera 
becomes  dull,  and  dumpish,  his  hair  is  rough  and  the  eyes  inflamed  and  soon 
discharge.  There  is  an  effort  to  cough,  the  temperature  rises  to  105  or  106 
degrees  and  the  hog  hides  away  in  a cool  dark  place.  The  appetite  is  poor 
and  the  bowels  are  either  normal  or  costive  at  first  but  soon  loosen,  the  dis- 
charges becoming  watery  and  offensive.  If  the  lungs  are  involved  breathing 
is  quickened,  becoming  more  labored  and  especially  in  the  later  stages  of  their 
sickness.  The  skin  is  generally  congested  and  red  on  the  inside  of  the  legs 
and  along  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen,  the  color  varying  from  pink  to  a sort 
of  red  or  purple.  The  eruptions  on  the  skin  dry  and  form  scales  or  scabs  of 
different  sizes.  The  hog  stands  with  arched  back,  refuses  to  eat,  loses  flesh 


HOGS— DISEASES  OF  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS. 


207 


and  strength  rapidly,  walks  with  a crippled  and  wabbling  gait  and  gradually 
fails  in  strength  until  he  dies.  No  person  can  tell  for  certain  before  death 
whether  a hog  suffers  from  hog  cholera  or  swine  plague  but  in  the  latter  case 
the  lungs  are  often  more  involved  than  in  cholera  and  consequently  the  hog 
breathes  with  more  difficulty. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  safer  to  say  that  hog  cholera  and  swine  plague  can 
be  prevented,  rather  than  to  say  they  can  be  cured;  however,  it  is  encourag- 
ing to  know  that  well  hogs  can  be  immunized  without  danger  so  as  to  prevent 
their  taking  cholera.  The  credit  of  this  recent  discovery  should  go  to  the 
Bureau  of  Animal  Industry,  Washington,  D.  C.  and  perhaps  a share  to  the 
different  State  Experiment  Stations  of  this  country.  When  a case  of  cholera 
is  discovered  every  possible  effort  should  be  made  to  destroy  the  infection 
and  prevent  the  disease  from  spreading.  One  part  carbolic  acid  and  twenty 
parts  water  is  as  good  as  any  disinfectant  to  use  in  spraying  the  pens  and  sprink- 
ling the  ground  where  the  hogs  have  been.  Besides,  the  sick  hogs  should  be 
kept  by  themselves  and  given  good  care,  their  pen  sprinkled  with  air-slacked 
lime,  the  hogs  kept  away  from  mud  and  ponds  and  given  some  of  the  follow- 
ing tonic  in  their  feed.  Take  two  pounds  of  salt,  two  pounds  of  baking  soda, 
one  pound  of  Glauber’s  salts,  two  pounds  of  hypo-sulphite  of  soda  and  one 
pound  of  black  antimony ; mix  thoroughly  and  give  each  full  grown  hog  a 
tablespoonful  at  a dose  in  feed  or  as  a drench  once  a day.  It  is  important  to 
give  the  hogs  good  care  and  also  plenty  of  good  food ; also,  keep  them  in  a 
dry  comfortable  place  and  if  they  are  sick  during  summer,  find  a shaded  place 
for  them. 

PREVENTING  THE  SPREADING  OF  HOG  CHOLERA  AND 
SWINE  PLAGUE. — In  a locality  where  hog  cholera  exists  the  owner  of  well 
hogs  should  do  many  things  which  he  need  not  do  if  infected  herds  were  not 
in  his  neighborhood.  The  owner  of  well  hogs  should  keep  away  from  stock 
yards  and  from  all  pens  and  farms  where  the  disease  exists.  It  is  also  im- 
portant to  keep  your  neighbors  away  from  your  place  if  their  hogs  are  dis- 
eased. Before  allowing  any  person  to  come  on  your  premises  ask  him  some 
questions  and  you  may  learn  that  he  has  come  from  a farm  where  they  have 
cholera  and,  if  such  is  the  case,  keep  him  off  your  place.  One  man  should 
have  the  care  of  diseased  hogs  and  visitors  should  be  kept  from  coming  near 
them.  Keep  all  diseased  hogs  in  small  fields  by  themselves.  When  any  new 
hogs  are  bought  and  brought  onto  your  farm,  keep  them  away  from  your  well 
ones  for  three  or  four  weeks.  It  will  pay  well  to  disinfect  and  clean  up  after 
new  healthy  appearing  hogs  and  it  must  be  done  thoroughly  after  sick  hogs 
are  gotten  rid  of.  The  troughs  and  floors  should  be  scalded  with  hot  water 
or  steam  or  they  should  be  wet  with  one  part  bichloride  of  mercury  (corrosive 
sublimate)  and  one  thousand  parts  water  or  use  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant 
and  thirty  parts  water.  Brood  sows  that  have  had  cholera  produce  pigs  which 
resist  the  disease  better  than  if  the  sow  never  had  cholera  and  are  said  to 
live  through  an  attack  better. 

HOW  TO  PREVENT  CHOLERA  AND  SWINE  PLAGUE  BY  VAC- 
CINATION.— Blood  serum  taken  from  the  body  of  an  immunized  hog  and 
from  one  sick  with  cholera  and  injected  into  a well  hog  produces  a mild 
attack  of  cholera  from  which  most  hogs  recover  and  then  they  resist  the  in- 
fection. The  serum  from  such  hogs  injected  into  the  bodies  of  susceptible 
hogs  seems  to  fortify  them  against  intection  for  a time  but  if  blood  from  a 


208 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


cholera  hog  is  also  used  with  it  then  it  is  likely  to  immunize  the  hog  for  life. 
The  serum  method  should  be  used  in  treating  hogs  whenever  there  is  an  out- 
break of  cholera  in  the  neighborhood  and  it  is  well  to  immunize  every  hog 
as  quickly  as  possible.  I do  not  regard  the  new  method  of  treating  cholera 
by  vaccinating  to  prevent  its  spread  as  likely  to  spread  the  disease  if  the 
work  is  done  as  it  should  be.  Furthermore,  if  good  serum  is  used  few  hogs 
will  sicken  badly  from  its  use;  however,  too  much  virulent  blood  may  be  in- 
jected into  a well  hog  and  make  him  very  sick. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  RESPIRATORY  OR 
BREATHING  ORGANS. 

(Including  Pneumonia,  Congestion  of  the  Lungs,  Bronchitis,  Pleurisy,  Quinsy, 
Sore  Throat,  Coughs,  Catarrh,  Etc.) 


PNEUMONIA  — INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  LUNGS  — LUNG 
FEVER. — Pneumonia  is  an  inflammation  of  the  lung  substance. 

CAUSES. — The  weather  seems  to  have  a great  deal  to  do  with  animals 
taking  pneumonia  for  it  is  much  more  prevalent  during  cold,  wet,  changeable 
weather  than  during  hot  summer  weather.  It  follows  other  debilitating  ail- 
ments and  especially  those  of  the  air  passagres. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  first  a chill  and  then  fever,  pain,  uneasiness,  hard 
breathing,  a quick  pulse  and  some  coughing.  The  disease  lasts  from  nine  to 
fourteen  days. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a few  drops  of  laudanum  first  to  prevent  vomiting, 
or  you  may  give  coffee  for  this.  Then  give  aconite  to  relieve  the  fever,  or  you 
can  give  veratrum  viride.  Good  care  in  the  line  of  food,  fresh  air  and  tonics 
seems  to  help  most  cases.  Be  sure  the  pen  is  clean  and  dry. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PNEUMONIA.— 

1.  Turpentine,  Laudanum  and  Milk. — To  half  a cup  of  milk  add  a tea- 
spoonful of  turpentine  and  30  drops  of  laudanum.  This  is  the  dose  for  a 100- 
pound  hog.  In  six  or  seven  hours  give  another  dose,  but  give  just  half  the 
above  quantities. 

CONGESTION  OF  THE  LUNGS— APOPLEXY  OF  LUNGS— PUL- 
MONARY APOPLEXY. — Congestion  of  the  lungs  is  a very  common  ail- 
ment in  hogs  and  is  what  is  generally  called  apoplexy  of  the  lungs  or  pulmon- 
ary apoplexy. 

CAUSES. — There  is  too  much  blood  stagnation  about  the  lungs.  A fat 
pig  has  but  little  breathing  space  and  if  exerted  too  much  when  in  a weak, 
flabby  condition  he  is  likely  to  take  congestion  of  the  lungs.  It  also 
follows  keeping  pigs  in  badly  ventilated  and  foul  pens. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  great  pain,  the  head  is  down,  the  mouth  open, 
and  there  is  some  blood  oozing  from  the  nose  in  some  cases.  The  extremities 
are  cold,  the  pulse  is  weak  and  in  fact  the  pig  is  unable  to  stand. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  pig  is  cold  put  him  in  a warm  comfortable  place 
and  give  stimulants  such  as  whiskey,  brandy,  rum,  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia 
or  sweet  spirits  of  nitre.  Cover  the  body  with  woolen  blankets  and  rub  the 
legs  with  one  pint  of  whiskey  with  a teaspoonful  of  tincture  of  capsicum 
added.  In  the  early  stages  the  ammonia  or  ether  acts  best  and  the  alcoholic 
stimulants  are  best  later  on.  Energetic  treatment  very  often  prevents  its 
terminating  in  inflammation  of  the  lungs. 

BRONCHITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BRONCHIAL  TUBES. 
— Bronchitis  is  not  a common  disease  of  the  pig  and  when  it  does  occur  it  is 
in  pigs  a few  months  old  and  then  they  do  not  always  recover. 

CAUSES. — Exposure  to  cold  and  wet,  too  much  dust  or  smoke,  and  cer- 
tain conditions  of  the  atmosphere  seem  to  cause  it  to  be  epidemic. 

3—14  209 


210 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


SYMPTOMS. — A hoarse  cough  with  difficult  breathing,  poking  out  the  ' 
head,  a discharge  of  mucus  from  the  mouth,  some  fever  and  considerable  weak- 
ness are  the  symptoms. 

TREATMENT. — If  you  notice  the  pig  when  first  taken  sick,  give  epsom 
salts,  Glauber’s  salts  or  castor  oil  to  open  the  bowels.  To  quiet  the  cough  give 
morphine,  opium,  belladonna,  muriate  of  ammonia  or  nitrate  of  potash  three 
times  a day.  Also  apply  mustard  and  water  to  the  breast  daily.  In  the  later 
stages  of  this  disease  give  syrup  of  squills,  muriate  of  ammonia  and  tincture 
of  lobelia.  If  the  pig  is  weak  give  eggs,  milk  and  whiskey. 

PLEURISY— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  PLEURA.— Pleurisy  is  an 
inflammation  of  the  membrane  that  lines  the  chest  a>nd  covers  the  lungs. 
Strange  to  say,  this  membrane  is  frequently  inflamed.  I believe  hogs  very 
often  have  light  attacks  of  pleurisy  and  recover  without  treatment  and  no 
one  knows  they  ever  had  it. 

CAUSES. — Forcing  pigs  to  sleep  in  cold  wet  beds  is  perhaps  the  most 
common  cause.  Standing  in  a draft  or  cold  wind  when  warm,  or  an  injury  such 
as  a kick  are  other  causes. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  sets  in  with  a chill  and  pain  in  the  side,  some  coughing, 
quick  breathing,  restlessness,  fever,  and  arched  back.  When  the  chest  con- 
tains fluid,  breathing  becomes  more  labored  and  quick  but  the  pig  suffers  less 
pain. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  bowels  are  costive  give  one  or  two  ounces  of 
epsom  salts  in  water  as  a drench ; also,  give  two  drops  of  veratrum  viride  and 
ten  drops  of  tincture  of  opium  at  a dose  every  three  hours  until  the  pig  seems 
better  and  coughs  less.  If  the  kidneys  do  not  act  freely  give  fifteen  grains 
of  powdered  saltpeter  at  a dose  in  either  feed  or  water  three  times  a day. 
When  all  the  fever  subsides,  give  as  a tonic  one  teaspoonful  of  tincture  of 
chloride  of  iron,  the  same  quantity  of  fluid  extract  of  gentian  and  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  fluid  extract  of  cinchona  at  a dose  in  feed  three  times  a day.  Be 
sure  to  keep  the  pig  in  a dry  clean  place. 

QUINSY— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  TONSILS.— This  is  a vpy 
common  ailment  in  swine  and  is  frequently  of  a serious  nature,  terminating 
in  death. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  great  difficulty  in  swallowing  and  there  is 
swelling  and  soreness  of  the  throat  and  the  hog  hangs  the  tongue  out  of  the 
mouth. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  hot  water  or  hot  cloths  to  the  throat  constantly 
for  twenty-four  hours ; also  apply  equal  parts  of  extract  of  witch  hazel,  spirits 
of  camphor  and  alcohol  to  the  throat  twice  a day.  Dissolve  a teaspoonful  of 
chlorate  of  potash  in  one-half  pint  of  water,  adding  one  teaspoonful  of  fluid 
extract  of  belladonna,  and  gargle  the  throat  with  two  tablespoonfuls  three  or 
four  times  a day. 

LARYNGITIS— PHARYNGITIS— SORE  THROAT.— This  is  a very 
common  ailment  in  hogs,  causing  a cough,  difficulty  in  eating  and  swallowing 
and  generally  affecting  the  breathing. 

CAUSES. — It  is  caused  by  exposure  to  storms  in  the  cooler  months  of  the 
year  and  wallowing  in  too  cold  water  in  hot  weather.  Also  sudden  changes 
in  the  temperature  from  hot  to  cold  and  keeping  hogs  in  foul  and  badly  ven- 
tilated pens  will  cause  it. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  difficulty  in  swallowing  dry  feed,  spasmodic 


HOGS— DISEASES  OF  RESPIRATORY  ORGANS.  211 

coughing,  a hot  and  dry  skin,  fast  pulse,  and  a tendency  to  filling  up  of  the 
throat. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  bowels  are  costive  give  castor  oil;  also  give 
twelve  grains  of  chloride  of  potash,  three  drops  of  tincture  of  belladonna  and 
fifteen  drops  of  tincture  of  opium  at  a dose  three  or  four  times  a day.  Or, 
give  thirty  drops  of  syrup  of  squills  and  ten  drops  of  laudanum  three  times  a 
day.  I have  used  borax,  alum  and  water  with  good  results. 

CHRONIC  LARYNGITIS. — The  pig  seldom  suffers  from  chronic  laryn- 
gitis. Although  the  throat  membranes  may  be  somewhat  inflamed  for  a long 
time  they  do  not  change  much,  but  the  pig  continues  to  cough. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  equal  parts  of  turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and 
raw  linseed  oil  and  give  thirty  drops  of  syrup  of  squills  and  fifteen  drops  of 
laudanum  at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day. 

COLDS. — Hogs  suffer  from  colds,  brought  on  by  exposure  to  wet  and 
storms  and  also  from  sleeping  in  damp  basement  pens. 

TREATMENT. — Feed  warm  slop  and  easil}^  digested  food  and  keep  the 
hogs  warm  and  dry.  Mix  equal  parts  of  ginger  and  powdered  licorice  in  their 
feed ; a tablespoonful  is  a dose  for  a full  grown  hog  and  this  medicine  should 
be  given  three  times  a day  until  the  hog  recovers. 

SNUFFLES. — This  is  a common  ailment  in  hogs,  affecting  them  much 
the  same  as  nasal  catarrh,  and  unless  they  get  well  it  may  end  in  nasal  gleet. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  one  part  of  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  two  parts 
of  water  to  clear  out  the  nose  and  give  fifteen-grain  doses  of  sulphate  of  iron 
in  feed  three  times  a day,  or  give  three  or  four  drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  of 
arsenic  at  a dose  in  feed  three  times  a day.  In  the  treatment  of  snuffles  feed 
as  nearly  as  possible  a balanced  ration  for  hogs.  If  this  disease  results  in 
nasal  gleet  (ozena)  it  will  not  pay  to  treat  the  hog  and  it  is  best  to  destroy 
him  for  fear  of  contagion ; besides,  if  the  bony  structures  of  the  nose  are  dis- 
eased it  is  a difficult  task  to  cure  such  a case. 

COUGHS. — Some  pigs  appear  to  suffer  from  a sort  of  nervous  cough, 
others  appear  to  cough  while  they  are  teething  and  without  any  inflammation 
of  the  mucous  membranes ; therefore,  it  must  be  some  interference  with  the 
nerves  of  respiration. 

TREATMENT. — By  giving  the  pigs  tonics  and  good  care  they  generally 
recover.  Onions,  garlic,  or  opium  are  good,  and  some  give  five-drop  doses  of 
nitro-hydrochloric  acid  at  a dose  three  times  a day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  COUGHS.— 

1.  Powdered  Licorice. — To  a two-hundred  pound  hog  give  two  teaspoon- 
fuls of  powdered  licorice  in  the  feed  and  repeat  the  dose  in  twenty-four  hours 
if  necessarv. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  NOSTRILS— NASAL  CATARRH.— In- 
flammation of  the  nostrils,  or  nasal  catarrh,  is  a common  ailment  of  hogs. 

CAUSES. — The  most  common  cause  is  exposure  to  cold  and  wet.  It  is 
also  caused  by  dust  blowing  up  the  nostrils  and  when  nearly  all  the  pigs  are 
affected  in  your  locality  it  is  epizootic. 

SYMPTOMS. — Dryness  of  the  membrane  of ’the  nose,  some  swelling, 
sneezing,  a discharge  from  the  nose  with  an  increasing  inflammation  and  loss 
of  appetite  are  the  symptoms  of  nasal  catarrh. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  not  necessary  to  medicate  all  cases  but  give  the  pig 
good  care  and  a few  doses  of  ginger  and  nitrate  of  potash  followed  with  a 
few  two-grain  doses  of  quinine  two  or  three  times  a day. 


212 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


CHRONIC  NASAL  CATARRH— NASAL  GLEET— OZENA.— When 
simple  catarrh  lasts  long  it  is  called  chronic  catarrh,  nasal  gleet,  or  ozena  and 
the  discharge  becomes  Very  thicl:  and  sticky,  making  breathing  quite  difficult. 

TREATMENT. — Give  the  pig  three  grains  of  powdered  sulphate  of 
copper,  or  three  drops  of  Fowler’s  solution,  or  ten  grains  of  sulphate  of 
iron,  at  a dose  in  feed  three  times  a day ; or  give  two  grains  of  quinine  at  a 
dose  four  times  a day.  Fairly  good  results  follow  steaming  with  creosote  or 
carbolic  acid  twice  a day.  Also,  wash  out  the  nostrils  with  salt  and  water, 
using  a tablespoonful  of  salt  in  a quart  of  water  and  these  applications  should 
be  made  twice  a day. 

MALIGNANT  CATARRH. — When  a hog  suffers  from  a bad  attack  of 
malignant  catarrh  and  has  been  given  good  care  and  the  right  kind  of  treat- 
ment it  is  often  better  to  destroy  him  than  to  take  chances  of  his  infecting  other 
pigs. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a heavy  discharge  from  the  nostrils  and  eyes,  the 
eyelids  swell  and  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  mouth  and  throat  becomes 
inflamed.  The  pig  has  fever,  loses  flesh,  and  if  the  disease  is  not  checked  he 
dies. 

TREATMENT. — Give  castor  oil  to  open  the  bowels.  Give  four  grains  of 
quinine  at  a dose  four  times  a day.  If  he  coughs  give  20  drops  of  laudanum 
and  steam  the  nostrih. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  SKIN. 

(Including  Prurigo,  Surfeit,  Mange,  Scaly  Disease,  Lichen,  Measles,  Scarlet 
Fever,  Ringworm,  Erysipelas,  Lice,  Etc.) 


PRURIGO.— 

SYMPTOMS. — This  is  an  eruption  that  causes  great  itching.  It  usually 
appears  on  the  neck  and  shoulders  and  the  pimples  are  almost  of  the  same 
color  as  the  skin,  but  by  passing  the  hand  over  the  skin  it  is  found  to  be  rough. 

TREATMENT. — It  must  be  the  result  of  faulty  digestion;  therefore,  it  is 
always  good  practice  to  give  an  ounce  or  two  of  sulphate  of  magnesia  to  open 
the  bowels  promptly.  Also  give  four  drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  and  twenty 
drops  of  syrup  of  iodide  of  iron  at  a dose  in  feed  or  water  three  times  a day. 
The  coal-tar  preparations  mixed  with  four  parts  of  vaseline  help  such  cases. 
Dissolving  baking  soda  in  water  and  applying  it  to  the  sore  parts  two  or  three 
times  a day  helps  to  take  out  the  itching.  This  treatment  will  do  for  most  skin 
eruptions  of  the  hog. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  SORES  BACK  OF  PIGS’  EARS.— 

1.  Kerosene  and  Sulphur. — Sometimes  the  pigs  get  sore  back  of  the  ears 
and  have  a discharge  of  a yellow  matter  with  an  offensive  smell.  Give  the 
hog  a teaspoonful  of  sulphur  once  a day  and  rub  kerosene  oil  on  the  affected 
parts. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  “ CANCER  OF  THE  TAIL.”— 

1.  Preventive. — Feed  the  sows  lightly  for  a couple  of  weeks  after  far- 
rowing. Equal  parts  of  bran  and  shorts  is  a good  feed.  Also  feed  the  sow 
a teaspoonful  of  sulphur  three  times  a week. 

2.  To  Keep  Tail  from  Falling  Off. — Mix  one  part  of  carbolic  acid  with 
twenty  parts  of  sweet  oil  and  apply  to  the  sore  parts. 

SURFEIT— NETTLE  RASH— URTICARIA.— This  is  a skin  eruption 
that  is  never  contagious  but  is  very  common  in  pigs. 

CAUSES. — It  is  generally  brought  on  by  feeding  the  pig  on  the  same 
kind  of  food  for  too  long  a time,  or  by  feeding  him  too  much  starchy  food.  It 
must  be  the  result  of  deranged  digestion. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a sudden  appearance  of  many  elevations  of  the 
skin  that  seem  to  itch  and  if  these  pimple-like  buds  do  not  disappear  soon  the 
disease  assumes  a sort  of  chronic  form  and  hard  bunches  form,  continue  to 
swell,  soften,  and  discharge  a glue-like  fluid.  In  this  second  form  of  surfeit 
there  may  be  loss  of  appetite  and  a sort  of  unthriftiness. 

TREATMENT. — Discontinue  feeding  nutritious  food  for  a few  days. 
Give  a cathartic  to  clean  out  the  bowels.  The  dose  of  epsom  salts  is  from  one 
to  two  and  a half  ounces  and  one  dose  is  usually  enough  to  move  the  bowels. 
Apply  one  part  of  bi-chloride  of  mercury  and  five  hundred  parts  of  water  to 
the  sore  parts  five  or  six  times  a day.  This  will  take  out  soreness.  Or,  dis- 
solve one-fourth  pound  of  sugar  of  lead  in  a gallon  of  water  and  add  eight 
ounces  of  laudanum,  if  the  itching  is  intense,  and  apply  to  surfeit  buds  four 
or  five  times  a day.  If  the  skin  does  not  clean  up  in  a few  days  give  twenty 
drops  of  fluid  extract  of  sarsaparilla  and  four  drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  at  a 
dose  in  feed  or  water  three  times  a day. 

213 


214 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


MANGE. — Mange  is  a parasitic  ailment  of  the  skin.  It  is  readily  com- 
municated from  one  pig  to  another  and  has  been  known  to  be  given  to  man. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  severe  itching  on  account  of  the  parasite’s  bur- 
rowing under  the  outer  skin.  Because--  of  this  the  pig  is  in  misery.  Scabs 
form  and  from  rubbing  there  are  some  large  sores  on  the  body  but  these  soon 
heal  when  the  parasites  are  killed. 

TREATMENT. — Wash  the  pig  with  soap  and  water  and  if  you  have  soft 
soap  use  it.  Rub  on  flower  sulphur  and  apply  it  daily ; also,  apply  any  of  the 
coal-tar  preparations  that  have  a good  reputation.  A good  remedy  is  staves- 
acre  seeds,  two  ounces  in  boiled  water;  or  an  infusion  of  tobacco  applied  twice 
a week.  One  part  kerosene  and  two  parts  vaseline  will  help  cure  mange ; or 
apply  one  part  sulphur  and  two  parts  lard  daily  for  a few  days.  When  apply- 
ing coal-tar  disinfectants  for  mange,  make  the  solution  one  part  to  ten  of 
water. 

SCALY  DISEASE  OF  THE  SKIN.— The  skin  of  the  hog  when  subjected 
to  the  hot  sun  in  summer  and  to  the  zero  weather  of  winter  very  often  scales 
and  becomes  rough. 

SYMPTOMS. — First,  pimples  appear  and  there  oozes  out  a fluid  which 
hardens  and  seems  to  cause  the  skin  to  come  off  in  flakes.  This  is  the  most 
common  skin  disease  in  hogs. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  pig  is  fleshy  give  it  a dose  of  physic,  feed  less 
grain  and  more  cooling  laxative  food,  and  apply  one  part  of  oxide  of  zinc  and 
three  parts  of  vaseline  to  the  sore  parts  of  the  skin  once  or  twice  a day.  Give 
four  drops  of  Fowler’s  solution  and  three  grains  of  iodide  of  potassium  at  a 
dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times  a day.  Dissolve  one-fourth  pound  of  sugar  of 
lead  in  one  gallon  of  water  and  apply  three  times  a day.  Many  of  the  simple 
home  remedies  are  good. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  REMOVING  SCURF.— 

1.  Buttermilk. — Wash  the  pigs  each  day  with  buttermilk  until  the  scurf 
is  entirely  removed. 

LICHEN. — When  the  skin  is  covered  with  a great  many  small  pimples 
around  the  hair  follicles,  in  sort  of  patches,  we  are  led  to.  believe  the  pig  is 
suffering  from  lichen.  The  hair  usually  falls  out  and  the  skin  scales  some, 
but  in  a few  weeks  the  hair  commences  to  grow  again. 

TREATMENT. — Give  two-thirds  of  a teaspoonful  of  sulphur,  ten  grains 
of  saltpeter  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  at  a dose  in  feed  three 
times  a day.  Wash  the  pig  with  baking  soda  and  water. 

MEASLES. — Measles  is  a very  common  ailment  in  pigs  and  it  is  very 
contagious. 

SYMPTOMS. — It  is  generally  attended  with  a cough,  some  sneezing, 
and  loss  of  appetite  in  severe  cases,  but  in  mild  cases  the  pig  is  not  notice- 
ably sick.  There  is  some  sore  throat  and  a rash  breaks  out  on  the  fourth  day 
but  if  the  skin  is  not  white  this  might  be  overlooked.  If  the  disease  is 
severe  the  eyes  become  inflamed,  the  lids  swell,  the  temperature  rises,  the 
pulse  becomes  quick  and  there  is  fast  breathing.  About  the  eighth  day 
the  disease  begins  to  subside. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  unnecessary  to  treat  mild  cases,  other  than  to 
give  them  good  care  and  see  that  the  bowels  move  freely;  if  not,  give  sulphate 
of  magnesia  in  small  doses ; also  give  nitrate  of  potash  to  reduce  the  fever. 
If  there  is  coughing  give  any  good  home-made  cough  remedy,  or  give  lauda- 
num. In  some  cases  the  pig  suffers  from  weakness;  if  so,  give  tonics  and 


hogs— DISEASES  OF  SKIN. 


215 


stimulants  such  as  whiskey  and  quinine  and  if  the  pig  has  diarrhea,  give 
opium ; but  keep  in  mind  that  if  the  pigs  are  not  exposed  to  storms  and  too 
much  wet  and  filth  when  they  are  sick  they  need  very  little  if  any  medicine. 

SCARLET  FEVER. — This  is  a contagious  disease  which  runs  its  course 
in  seven  or  eight  days  and  is  very  often  diagnosed  as  me-asles ; however,  the 
symptoms  are  not  alike  but  it  requires  some  experience  to  tell  the  difference. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  first  indications  of  sickness  are  dullness,  stiffness, 
a fast  pulse,  fever,  great  thirst,  loss  of  appetite,  vomiting,  stupor,  delirium 
and  sometimes  convulsions. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  the  fact  that  a great  many 
pigs  have  suffered  from  scarlet  fever  and  recovered  without  treatment.  It 
is  also  a fact  that  many  hogs  are  given  medicines  for  scarlet  fever  that  could 
in  no  way  assist  nature  in  throwing  off  the  poison  of  this  disease.  Look 
after  the  general  comfort  of  the  pig  and  see  that  he  has  good  care.  If  the 
bowels  are  costive,  give  castor  oil  or  epsoni  salts,  but  in  small  doses,  for  if 
the  bowels  get  to  acting  too  freely  you  may  find  it  troublesome  to  stop  the 
purging.  If  the  throat  is  sore,  dissolve  twelve  grains  of  chlorate  of  potash 
in  two  ounces  of  water  and  gargle  the  throat  four  times  a day.  If  the  pig 
shows  much  weakness  give  whiskey  and  quinine  three  times  a day;  or,  give 
carbonate  of  ammonia  in  fifteen-grain  doses  three  times  a day. 

RINGWORM. — Ringworm  is  not  common  in  pigs;  however,  we  do  meet 
with  cases  of  it.  It  is  due  to  the  presence  of  a vegetable  parasite  and  of  course 
spreads  rapidly  when  meeting  with  a suitable  abode. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  the  hair  drops  out  of  the  skin  in  ring-like  patches 
and  the  center  becomes  dry  and  the  edge  moist,  the  ringworm  parasite  is 
generally  present.  This  disease  is  contagious  to  other  pigs  and  likewise  to 
man,  but  man  is  easily  cured  for  these  parasites  do  not  seem  to  live  a great 
length  of  time  in  him. 

TREATMENT. — Iodine  ointment  is  a remedy,  but  before  applying  it 
wash  the  sores  with  soap  and  water.  Another  remedy  is  to  dissolve  one 
ounce  of  carbolic  acid  in  four  ounces  of  alcohol  and  apply  to  the  sores  twice 
a week.  It  will  often  effect  a cure.  Sulphur,  one  part,  and  lard,  two  parts 
acts  well. 

ERYSIPELAS.— 

CAUSES. — There  can  be  little  doubt  that  this  disease  is  due  to  an  or- 
ganism and  it  seems  to  follow  wounds  or  injuries  to  the  skin  when  there  is 
an  abrasion  sufficient  to  allow  germs  to  be  picked  up  and  pass  into  the  cir- 
culation and  infect  the  pig.  Certain  animals  seem  to  be  easy  victims  of  this 
ailment.  It  seems  to  be  influenced  by  diet  and  exposure.  The  disease  may 
be  said  to  be  both  local  and  constitutional.  This  being  a contagious  disease, 
the  sick  should  be  kept  away  from  the  well  hogs. 

TREATMENT. — The  bowels  should  be  opened  with  either  castor  oil  or 
epsom  salts;  also,  give  aconite  to  reduce  the  fever;  or,  give  nitrate  of  potas- 
sium. To  relieve  the  pain  give  opium  and  it  is  good  practice  to  give  tincture 
of  chloride  of  iron  in  twenty  or  twenty-five-drop  doses  every  few  hours.  Feed 
milk,  oatmeal  or  eggs  and  if  very  weak  give  quinine  and  whiskey.  When  blis- 
ters form,  open  them.  This  will  keep  the  skin  in  better  condition  than  if 
they  are  left  alone.  Be  sure  to  let  the  pig  have  plenty  of  fresh  water. 

WARTS. — Warts  are  caused  by  some  deranged  condition  of  the  outer 
skin  and  soon  the  true  skin  becomes  diseased  and  thickens.  When  a wart 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


2l(j 

meets  'with  friction,  causing  it  to  bleed,  it  grows,  sometimes  to  quite  a size. 
Some  warts  seem  to  spread  out  and  cover  considerable  surface  of  the  skin. 

TREATMENT. — If  the  wart  has  a well-defined  neck,  cut  it  off;  if  large, 
it  will  bleed  some  and  to  prevent  this  heat  a piece  of  knife-shaped  iron 
red  hot  and  burn  off  the  wart  instead  of  cutting  it.  The  hot  iron  stops  hem- 
orrhage. Or,  tie  a string  around  its  neck,  leaving  it  for  a few  days  and  if 
it  does  not  slough  off,  tie  on  another  string  and  leave  it  on  until  the  wart 
drops  off ; then  apply  nitrate  of  silver  or  carbolic  acid,  or  terchloride  of  anti- 
mony, or  one  part  of  chromic  acid  and  five  parts  water.  These  caustic  applica- 
tions will  kill  the  roots. 

LICE. — When  swine  are  infected  with  lice  they  soon  commence  to  lose 
flesh  and  grow  thin,  but  lice  are  so  easily  gotten  rid  of  that  no  hog  need 
have  them. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  coal-tar  disinfectant,  one  part  to  twenty  of  water, 
once  a day  or  boil  stavesacre  seed  and  make  a decoction  and  it  will  kill  lice 
quickly.  Or,  use  a decoction  of  tobacco.  Fairly  good  results  follow  the 
use  of  one  part  kerosene  and  ten  parts  of  soap  suds.  Or,  light  applications 
of  fish  oil  will  drive  off  lice. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LICE.— 

1.  Coal  Oil  and  Lard. — Rub  the  hogs  with  a mixture  of  equal  parts  of 
coal  oil  and  lard  if  they  have  lice.  Repeat  in  a week  or  ten  days. 

2.  Kerosene. — Rub  with  kerosene  oil  and  repeat  in  ten  days. 

3.  Carbolic  Acid  Solution. — Rub  the  hogs  with  one  part  of  carbolic  acid 
diluted  with  thirty  parts  of  water  and  you  will  kill  the  lice.  Better  repeat  in 
a week. 


HOW  TO  GIVE  MEDICINE  TO  A HOG. 

(Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  “Mentor  Stock  Farm”  especially  for  this  book.) 


SPAYING  A SOW. 

(Photographed  at  Dr.  hkiir’s  “Mentor  Stock  Farm’’  especially  for  this  hook.) 


DISEASES  OF  THE  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 

(Including  Farrowing  or  Pigging,  Eversion  of  Womb,  Inflammation  of  Womb, 
Inflammation  of  Udder,  Castration,  Etc.) 


FARROWING  OR  PIGGING. — The  usual  time  for  gestation  in  sows  if 
they  are  strong  and  healthy  is  a little  less  than  four  months.  A weak,  young  ^ 
sow  pigs  earlier.  Six  weeks  after  a sow  has  been  served  she  begins  to  get ' 
big  and  heavy,  growing  more  so  until  she  farrows.  While  pregnant  she 
should  be  well  fed  and  allowed  to  exercise  and  her  bowels  should  be  moder- 
ately open  when  she  farrows.  She  should  be  kept  in  a pen  with  the  tempera- 
ture from  60  to  70  degrees  until  her  pigs  dry,  then  it  is  not  necessary  to  keep 
them  as  warm  as  when  they  were  born.  Young  pigs  chill  easily  and  cold 
pens  for  brood  sows  cost  their  owners  money  on  account  of  the  death  of 
the  pigs.  The  sow  should  have  plenty  of  short  bedding  with  which  to  make 
a nest  before  she  farrows. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  the  sow  begins  to  make  preparations  for  pigging 
she  is  uneasy,  gathers  straw  and  arranges  it  for  her  nest,  lies  down  and  ex- 
pels her  pigs.  Of  course  the  water  bag  breaks  first.  The  forefeet  first  with 
the  nose  between  them  is  the  proper  position  for  a young  pig.  Should  you 
be  obliged  to  help  her,  put  the  pig  in  the  natural  position,  oil  the  ^passage 
with  carbolized  lard  and  if  the  hand  is  used  instead  of  instruments  it  should 
be  a small  hand.  I prefer  to  use  instruments.  Pigs  can  be  taken  away  hind 
feet  first. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  TO  PREVENT  AND  CURE  EATING 
OF  PIGS.— 

1.  Preventive  and  Cure. — Make  a mixture  of  equal  parts  of  salt,  sulphur, 
charcoal  and  wood  ashes  and  keep  this  before  the  sows  all  the  time  and  espe- 
cially at  pigging  time.  This  is  a preventive  but  if  they  have  begun  eating 
the  pigs,  give  them  all  the  salt  pork  they  will  eat. 

EVERSION  OF  THE  WOMB. — This  is  where  the  pig  bed  is  turned  out 
on  account  of  the  sow’s  being  weak  at  farrowing  time  or  getting  into  a posi- 
tion where  the  hind  parts  are  much  lower  than  the  fore  parts  or  on  account 
of  the  vagina  being  large  and  the  uterus  slipping  into  it  and  turning  inside 
out. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  uterus,  or  pig  bed,  when  turned  out  is  quite  large. 
It  is  red  and  inflamed  and  this  cannot  be  mistaken  for  any  other  ailment. 

TREATMENT. — In  the  first  place  the  womb  should  be  kept  clean  and 
not  injured.  Bathe  the  parts  with  cold  water  to  somewhat  reduce  the  swell- 
ing. Then  elevate  her  hind  quarters  and  return  the  uterus,  but  before  doing 
so,  pour  on  a one  per  cent,  solution  of  carbolic  acid  and  water.  This  is  made 
with  one  part  of  carbolic  acid  and  99  parts  water.  Or,  use  one  part  bi-chloride 
of  mercury  and  twenty-five  hundred  parts  of  warm  water,  or  one  part  coal-tar 
and  fifty  parts  of  water.  As  soon  as  the  parts  are  in  place  sew  up  the  upper 
part  of  the  vulva  and  give  the  sow  a teaspoonful  or  more  of  laudanum  every 
two  or  three  hours  to  keep  her  from  straining.  Her  bowels  should  be  kept 
open  and,  if  necessary,  give  epsom  salts,  three  or  four  ounces  a day.  The  hind 
parts  in  some  cases  should  be  kept  higher  than  the  fore  parts. 

217 


218 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PIOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  WOMB.— This  is  likely  to  come  on  after 
eversion  or  where  the  sow  was  improperly  helped  during  farrowing,  or  kept 
in  a cold,  damp,  filthy  pen  or  place  after  farrowing.  I have  known  it  to  come 
on  without  any  well-known  cause. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are  loss  of  appetite,  dullness,  thirst,  pain 
and  fever.  The  vulva  usually  swells  and  there  is  some  vaginal  discharge. 

TREATMENT. — Give  aconite  to  reduce  the  fever,  or  saltpeter  acts 
well.  Wash  out  the  womb  with  boric  acid  and  warm  water,  as  much  acid 
as  the  water  will  dissolve,  and  run  it  through  a rubber  tube  with  a funnel. 
Give  laudanum  or  belladonna  to  quiet  the  pain  and  keep  the  bowels  loose. 
Feed  cooling,  laxative  food. 

INFLAMED  UDDER.— 

CAUSES. — Improper  care,  a wet  bed,  exposure  to  cold,  over-feeding  and 
the  loss  of  a part  or  the  whole  of  a litter  are  the  causes. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  some  loss  of  appetite,  fever,  shrinkage  in  milk 
and  a hard  and  tender  udder. 

TREATMENT. — Give  epsom  salts  as  a cathartic  and  some  saltpeter 
three  times  a day.  Foment  the  udder  with  hot  water  three  times  a day  and 
rub  with  camphorated  oil  daily. 

CASTRATION. — When  I was  raising  pigs  myself  I made  it  a practice  to 
castrate  them  when  they  were  two  or  three  weeks  old  and  I do  not  now  re- 
call that  any  of  them  had  not  fully  recovered  from  the  shock  before  wean- 
ing time,  but  in  my  practice  I have  been  called  upon  to  castrate  them  at  all 
ages  and  the  older  they  are  the  more  it  seems  to  affect  them.  Therefore, 
I urge  you  to  castrate  pigs  early  for  there  is  then  much  less  risk.  When  you 
get  ready  to  castrate  the  pigs,  mix  one  part  of  carbolic  acid  and  fifty  parts  of 
water,  lay  your  knife  in  it,  wash  the  pigs  scrotum  with  the  same,  also  dip 
your  hands  in  it.  Put  the  pig  on  his  back  in  a furrow  or  trough  and  tie  or  hold 
his  legs  or,  if  he  is  small,  your  assistant  can  hold  his  head  between  his  knees. 
Place  the  left  hand  under  the  testicle,  making  a bold  incision  and  allowing 
the  testicle  to  escape ; separate  the  covering  from  the  testicle ; tie  a piece  of 
catgut,  silk  or  linen  thread  tightly  around  the  cord  to  stop  bleeding;  let  the 
ends  of  the  thread  hang  out  of  the  scrotum  a few  inches  but  cut  off  the  cord 
leaving  one-half  or  three  quarters  of  an  inch  below  the  string  and  in  a few 
days  the  string  will  drop  off  or  may  be  pulled  off.  The  knife  and  operator’s 
hands  should  be  cleaned  before  another  pig  is  operated  on.  When  operating 
on  a ruptured  boar  the  hind  quarters  should  be  placed  a few  inches  higher 
than  the  fore  quarters.  The  pig  should  be  empty  and,  if  you  are  operating 
on  an  old  boar  your  work  will  be  made  much  easier  if  he  is  quite  empty. 
After  cleaning  the  scrotum,  cut  through  the  skin  but  not  the  last  covering 
of  the  testicle;  separate  this  from  the  outer  covering  and  force  the  testicle 
out;  then  place  a string  around  the  cord  three  inches  above  the  testicle  and 
cut  off  the  cord,  leaving  it  an  inch  longer  than  in  simple  cases  and  also  be 
sure  the  string  is  tight  for  if  it  slips  off  the  bowel  may  come  out.  In  badly 
ruptured  boars  it  is  a good  plan  to  stitch  the  wound  in  the  scrotum  and  also 
to  keep  him  empty  until  the  string  comes  off  and  the  wound  heals  besides, 
they  should  be  kept  by  themselves  in  a quiet  place  and  one  part  of  carbolic 
acid  and  thirty  parts  of  water  should  be  applied  to  the  wound  twice  a day. 
Young  pigs  may  be  allowed  to  run  with  others  after  this  operation. 


VARIOUS  DISEASES. 

(Including  Thumps,  Rheumatism,  Founder  or  Sore  Feet,  Diseases  of  the  Eye, 
Brain  Troubles,  Apoplexy,  Blind  Staggers,  Paralysis,  Chorea,  How  to  Tell 
the  Age  of  Hogs,  and  General  Rules  as  to  Care,  Feeding  and  Raising  of 
Hogs.) 


THUMPS— PALPITATION  OF  THE  HEART.— 

CAUSES. — This  is  an  ailment  which  most  generally  attacks  young  pigs 
that  are  fleshy  and  do  not  have  enough  exercise.  It  is  perhaps  the  result  of 
a spasmodic  contraction  of  the  diaphragm  and  just  what  should  bring  this 
on  is  none  too  well  understood,  for  it  seems  to  attack  the  finest  looking  ones 
of  the  litter.  A morbid  condition  of  the  system  causes  it,  also  worms  and 
feeding  food  which  does  not  contain  sufficient  nitrogen. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  pig  is  taken  with  a sort  of  hiccough  and  jerking  of 
the  body  with  palpitation  of  the  heart  and  there  may  be  spasms  of  the 
diaphragm  as  well ; however,  it  is  not  easy  to  tell. 

TREATMENT. — More  can  be  done  in  the  line  of  prevention  than  curing 
the  diseased  ones.  If  the  sow  is  a deep  milker  and  the  pigs  are  too  fat, 
purge  her  and  reduce  her  food  allowance.  Also  see  that  she  and  her  pigs 
have  more  exercise.  If  their  bowels  need  attention,  give  either  epsom  salts 
or  castor  oil  to  open  them.  It  is  always  wise  to  diet  the  sow  and  pigs 
after  one  shows  thumps  for  fear  of  more  becoming  affected.  You  will  find 
digitalis  a useful  drug;  or,  give  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  every  hour  or 
two.  As  soon  as  the  pigs  have  some  appetite  feed  them  milk,  eggs,  and  oat- 
meal gruel  but  not  too  much  at  a time. 

RHEUMATISM. — This  is  a very  common  ailment  of  young  pigs.  Cer- 
tain conditions  of  the  body  seem  to  be  just  right  for  them  to  become  stiff  and 
sore.  Many  veterinarians  believe  it  to  be  the  result  of  an  acid,  either  lactic 
or  uric ; however,  this  is  doubtful.  Certain  animals  seem  to  have  a predis- 
position to  become  rheumatic  and  when  subjected  to  exciting  causes  they 
soon  become  sore  and  lame. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  fetlock  joints  very  often  swell,  there  is  lameness  in 
one  or  more  legs,  some  fever,  loss  of  appetite  and,  if  there  be  much  inflamma- 
tion, the  joints  swell.  Rheumatism  may  attack  any  organ  of  the  body. 

TREATMENT. — Give  sulphate  of  magnesia  to  .open  the  bowels 
promptly ; also  give  ten-grain  doses  of  iodide  of  potassium  at  a dose  three 
times  a day.  In  chronic  cases  give  five  drops  of  Eowler’s  solution  at  a 
dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times  a day.  Give  ten  grains  of  carbonate  of  potash 
or  citrate  of  potash  or  sodium  salicylate  at  a dose  three  times  a day  until 
you  can  notice  some  results,  then  give  smaller  doses  or  fewer  doses  a day. 
If  the  joints  are  swollen  apply  equal  parts  of  extract  of  witch  hazel,  fluid 
extract  of  belladonna  and  tincture  of  opium  twice  a day.  Equal  parts  of 
turpentine,  aqua  ammonia  and  sweet  oil  is  another  good  liniment  for  rheu- 
matic joints  and  it  should  be  applied  daily. 

FOUNDER  OR  SORE  FEET. — It  is  not  unusual  to  find  pigs  walking 
very  foot-sore,  especially  after  walking  far  on  a hard  road  or  walking  about 

210 


220 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


in  a pen  when  fattening  or  when  fed  a large  quantity  of  grain  at  a time  when 
they  were  not  accustomed  to  it.  This  brings  on  a sort  of  founder  in  hogs. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  a pig  travels  with  the  forefeet  far  in  advance 
of  the  body  and  continually  changes  feet  he  is  foot-sore. 

TREATMENT. — If  in  summer,  stand  the  pig  in  wet  clay  or  sand 
to  cool  his  feet;  if  in  winter,  apply  hot  poultices.  Reduce  his  grain  supply 
and  feed  cooling,  laxative  food,  such  as  vegetables  and  grass.  Give  epsom 
salts  to  open  the  bowels  and  some  saltpeter  in  the  feed  or  water  two  or  three 
times  a day.  If  the  sores  appear  between  the  toes  or  on  the  back  part  of 
the  heel  apply  chloride  of  zinc  and  water,  one  dram  to  a pint;  or,  apply  one 
part  of  carbolic  acid  and  ten  parts  of  water  twice  a day.  Be  sure  to  keep 
the  pig  in  a clean,  dry  place. 

WOUNDS. — Hogs  are  often  wounded  by  dogs,  by  cattle  hooking  them, 
by  kicks  from  horses  wearing  sharp  shoes  and  by  running  against  barbed 
wire  fences  and  sharp  snags. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  fifty  parts 
water,  or  one  part  carbolic  acid  and  fifty  parts  water;  or,  dissolve  one- 
fourth  pound  of  sugar  of  lead,  one-fourth  pound  of  sulphate  of  zinc  and  two 
ounces  of  carbolic  acid  in  a gallon  of  water,  which  makes  a good  and  not  too 
expensive  healing  remedy  for  wounds  on  hogs.  A good  healing  powder  is 
made  by  mixing  equal  parts  of  oxide  of  zinc,  powdered  alum  and  boric  acid. 
This  should  be  applied  twice  daily. 

AMAUROSIS— PARALYSIS  OF  THE  RETINA.— Amaurosis  is  a di- 
lation of  the  pupil  of  the  eye,  usually  lasting  in  its  effects  and  giving  the  eye 
a glassy  and  greenish  appearance.  It  causes  blindness. 

CAUSES. — The  optic  nerve  is  affected  and  there  is  generally  some  de- 
rangement of  the  digestive  organs  with,  perhaps,  some  worms  in  the  stomach. 

TREATMENT. — A cathartic  of  castor  oil  or  epsom  salts  with  some 
worm  medicine  will  give  relief  if  any  treatment  will.  It  is  also  necessary 
to  keep  the  pig  in  a dark  pen  which  is  free  from  foul  gases. 

DISEASES  OF  THE  EYEBALL. — The  eyes  of  pigs  seem  to  be 
as  exempt  from  eye  diseases  as  those  of  any  other  domestic  animal ; how- 
ever, they  are  sometimes  troubled  with  inflamed  eyes,  the  result  of  exposure 
to  cold,  heat  and  sunshine.  Living  in  acrid,  nasty  vapors  and  also  foreign 
bodies  making  their  way  into  the  eyes  are  other  causes. 

SYMPTOMS. — Whenever  the  tears  flow  over  the  cheek  or  the  eye 
seems  inflamed  it  is  well  to  make  an  examination  and  ascertain  if  any  foreign 
body  is  in  the  eye. 

TREATMENT. — Simple  ophthalmia  usually  results  from  injuries  which 
cause  an  inflammation  of  the  eyeball  and  mucous  membrane  of  the  eye  and 
is  best  treated  by  placing  the  pig  in  a dark  pen  or  shaded  place  and  applying 
hot  water.  Follow  with  applications  of  boric  acid  and  water,  just  as  much 
acid  as  the  water  will  dissolve;  or,  dissolve  fifty  grains  of  sugar  of  lead  in 
one-half  pint  of  rain  water,  add  a teaspoonful  of  laudanum  and  apply  three 
times  a day.  When  the  acute  inflammation  subsides  a film  or  scum  covers 
the  eye.  If  this  is  the  case,  blow  some  calomel  into  the  eye  once  a day 
or  dissolve  four  grains  of  nitrate  of  silver  and  one  grain  of  sulphate  of 
atropia  in  one  ounce  of  rain  water  and  apply  to  the  eye  daily. 

PHRENITIS  AND  MENINGITIS— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE 
BRAIN  AND  ITS  MEMBRANES. — Phrenitis,  or  inflammation  of  the  brain, 


HOGS— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


221 


and  also  meningitis,  or  inflammation  of  the  membranes  of  the  brain,  give  rise 
to  very  much  the  same  symptoms ; therefore,  we  shall  not  need  to  take  up 
each  separately  as  nearly  all  the  parts  are  involved  when  one  is  inflamed. 

CAUSES. — It  can  be  safely  stated  that  over-feeding  on  rich  nutritious 
food  without  the  pig’s  having  enough  exercise  and  fresh  air  is  the  most 
common  cause  of  these  ailments.  They  are  also  caused  by  injuries,  other 
diseases,  feeding  improper  food,  over  exertion  and  a faulty  circulation. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  generally  dullness,  loss  of  appetite  and  stag- 
gering and  these  are  followed  by  delirium  and  in  some  cases  vomiting.  The 
pulse  is  fast  and  full.  I have  seen  them  chase  chickens  and  run  into  things. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all,  remove  the  cause  as  quickly  as  possible 
if  you  can  tell  what  it  is.  Give  two  or  three  ounces  of  epsom  salts  to  open 
the  bowels.  Give  four  drops  of  tincture  of  aconite  every  three  hours,  but 
discontinue  it  if  the  pig  vomits.  Put  ice  packs  on  the  head  and  keep  them 
on  until  the  pig  is  better  and  apply  some  strong  liniment  at  the  junction 
of  the  spinal  cord  and  brain  twice  a day. 

APOPLEXY. — This  derangement  is  an  ailment  in  hogs  confined  almost 
exclusively  to  those  that  are  too  fat. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  attack  comes  on  suddenly,;  if  eating  the  hog  will 
stop  and  appear  restless  and  act  stupid ; the  eyes  are  blood-shot  and  promi- 
nent and  in  a few  moments  the  hog  may  fall,  froth  at  the  mouth  and  soon  get 
up.  Other  cases  prove  fatal. 

TREATMENT. — I have  known  many  recoveries  to  follow  bleeding  from 
the  veins  of  the  leg,  but  these  cases  might  have  recovered  without  treatment. 
When  you  bleed  a hog  suffering  from  apoplexy,  tie  a string  around  the 
foreleg  above  the  knee,  open  the  vein  on  the  inside  of  the  leg  and  be  sure 
to  use  a clean  knife  or  lancet.  If  it  is  a bad  case,  open  the  other  vein  of  the 
foreleg  and  take  away  not  less  than  a pint ; or,  perhaps  one-half  pint  more 
can  be  taken  away  to  advantage.  To  close  the  wound  use  a clean  pin,  passing 
it  through  both  edges,  and  tie  a string  back  of  the  pin;  this  will  prevent 
bleeding.  In  most  cases  it  is  good  practice  to  give  two  or  three  ounces  of 
epsom  salts  and  reduce  the  food  supply.  If  it  occurs  in  summer,  place  the 
hog  in  a cool  place  and  apply  cold  water  to  the  head. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  EPILEPSY.— 

1.  Aloes  and  Potassium  Bromide. — Give  one  dram  of  aloes  and  follow 
with  ten-grain  doses  of  potassium  bromide. 

BLIND  STAGGERS. — This  ailment  is  brought  on  by  generous  feed- 
ing and  keeping  hogs  in  badly  ventilated  and  filthy  pens. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  hog  is  stupid,  does  not  see  well,  runs  against  things, 
moves  in  a circle  and  is  likely  to  fall.  It  is  sometimes  caused  by  effusion 
in  the  brain  and  may  develop  quite  suddenly.  After  he  falls  there  is  consid- 
erable frothing  at  the  mouth  with  hard  breathing,  jerking  and  stiffening  of 
the  limbs. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  cold  water  to  the  head,  place  the  pig  in  a com- 
fortable place  and  give  a dose  of  epsom  salts.  If  the  pig  is  less  than  three 
months  old  a tablespoonful  of  salts  is  a large  enough  dose.  If  he  is  weak 
give  a teaspoonful  of  sweet  spirits  of  nitre  and  a dessert  spoonful  of  whiskey 
in  cold  water  as  a drench ; and  if  high  feeding  and  filth  has  caused  it,  reduce 
the  grain  ration  for  a few  days ; also  give  the  pig  a dose  of  epsom  salts  once 
a week  for  thirty  days  and  keep  the  hog  in  a dry  clean  pen. 


222 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  BLIND  STAGGERS.— 

1.  Cold  Water. — Pour  cold  water  on  the  head. 

PARALYSIS. — This  is  a common  ailment  in  pigs,  mostly  affecting  the 
hind  limbs  and  resulting  in  either  partial  or  complete  loss  of  power  of  the 
limbs. 

CAUSES. — It  is  not  always  easy  to  tell  what  causes  paralysis;  however, 
it  is  generally  the  result  of  accident,  some  error  in  feeding  or  some  other 
sickness  or  disease. 

TREATMENT. — If  it  is  the  result  of  a fractured  back,  destroy  the  hog; 
but  if  the  loss  of  power  is  only  partial  and  the  hind  quarters  possess  sensa- 
tion, then  apply  hot  applications  to  the  back  or  apply  some  good  home 
liniment,  or  mustard  and  water  daily;  or,  apply  equal  parts  of  turpentine, 
aqua  ammonia  and  either  sweet  oil  or  raw  linseed  oil  once  a day.  Give  six 
or  eight  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  nux  vomica  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
fluid  extract  of  buchu  at  a dose  three  times  a day.  The  bowels  should  be 
opened  by  giving  castor  oil  or  epsom  salts  and  the  hog  should  be  fed  laxa- 
tive food. 

CHOREA. — Chorea  is  a disease  of  the  nervous  system,  characterized  by 
involuntary  and  convulsive  muscular  movements  of  one  or  more  parts  of  the 
body.  The  contractions  are  not  rigid  and  persistent  as  in  lockjaw  but  ap- 
pear as  though  they  were  voluntary  movements. 

CAUSES. — There  is  an  excited  state  of  the  nervous  system,  perhaps 
the  result  of  perverted  nutrition  of  the  nerves  in  the  part  affected  or  possibly 
due  to  defective  nutrition  of  the  body.  However,  I have  seen  pigs  and  old 
hogs  affected  with  chorea  that  did  not  appear  to  be  unhealthy;  therefore,  it 
is  not  easy  to  tell  what  brought  it  on. 

TREATMENT. — I have  obtained  the  best  results  by  giving  Fowler’s 
solution  in  four  or  five-drop  doses  and  sub-carbonate  of  iron  in  one-quarter 
to  one-half-dram  doses  three  times  a day,  or  five  drops  of'  tincture  of  nux 
vomica  three  times  a day. 

HOW  TO  TELL  THE  AGE  OF  A PIG. — At  birth  the  young  pig  usu- 
ally has  eight  teeth,  four  temporary  incisors  and  four  tushes ; at  ten  or  twelve 
days  old  the  second  and  third  temporary  molars  appear;  at  30  days,  four  in- 
cisors are  out,  two  in  the  upper  and  two  in  the  lower  jaw ; at  the  sixth  or 
seventh  week  the  front  molars  can  be  seen  and  at  three  or  three  and  one-half 
months,  four  more  are  in,  two  in  each  jaw;  now  all  the  temporary  or  milk 
teeth  are  in.  At  six  or  seven  months  a tooth  appears  just  behind  the  tem- 
porary tushes  on  both  sides  and  in  the  upper  jaw  just  in  front  of  the  grinders 
we  also  find  the  fourth  molar  coming  through  the  gum.  At  nine  months 
the  corner  incisor  teeth  are  displaced  and  the  permanent  ones  come  in  their 
place;  also,  the  permanent  tushes  come  at  this  time  and  the  fifth  grinders  on 
each  side  of  the  jaws  come  at  this  time.  At  twelve  months  the  middle  in- 
cisors are  replaced  by  permanent  ones  and  the  temporary  incisors  are  shed 
and  replaced  by  permanent  ones,  and  at  eighteen  months  the  hog  has  a full 
set  of  teeth  as  the  lateral  incisors  and  sixth  molars  are  up  and  in  good  order. 
In  estimating  the  age  of  a pig  it  is  well  to  take  in  his  general  appearance  for 
some  of  them  have  a full  set  of  permanent  teeth  a month  or  six  weeks  earlier 
than  others. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  KEEPING  HOGS  IN  HEALTH.— 
1.  Salt  and  Lime. — Mix  equal  parts  of  salt  and  air-slacked  lime  and 


hogs— VARIOUS  DISEASES. 


223 


keep  this  mixture  before  the  hogs  all  the  time  if  you  would  keep  them  in  good 
health. 

2.  Sulphur  and  Charcoal. — Occasionally  feed  the  hogs  a little  sulphur  in 
their  feed.  Also  keep  plenty  of  charcoal  where  they  can  get  it  whenever  they 
desire. 

3.  Salt  and  Ashes. — Feed  salt  and  ashes  at  least  once  a week  if  you 
would  keep  them  in  health. 

4.  Soft  Coal. — Feed  the  hogs  all  the  soft  coal  they  will  eat  and  they 
will  eat  a lot  of  it. 

5.  Tobacco. — A teaspoonful  of  tobacco  once  a week  will  keep  the  hogs 
in  good  condition. 

6.  Burnt  Corn. — Burnt  corn  is  a good  form  of  charcoal  to  give  the  hogs. 
PEOPLE’S  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RULES  AS  TO  THE  CARE,  FEED- 
ING AND  RAISING  OF  HOGS.— 

1.  The  pens  should  be  warm  but  well  ventilated  at  the  top. 

2.  The  floor  of  the  pen  should  be  covered  with  a foot  of  clay. 

3.  The  feeding  floor  should  be  open  to  the  sun  but  should  have  a good 
slope  so  as  to  carry  off  the  rain. 

4.  The  surrounding  ground  should  slope  away  from  the  pen  so  as  to 
carry  off  water  and  refuse. 

5.  The  hogs  should  at  all  times  have  access  to  a stream  of  pure  run- 
ning water. 

6.  The  stomach  should  be  kept  in  good  condition  and  not  overloaded. 

7.  Hogs  fed  on  corn  should  also  have  green  food  and  sour  slop  may 
also  be  fed  to  advantage. 

8.  If  the  hogs  are  kept  on  clover  they  should  not  have  slops  but  should 
have  potatoes,  turnips  or  other  roots. 

9.  If  the  tongues  are  contracted  and  red  the  hogs  should  have  some 
slops  or  should  be  turned  on  clover. 

10.  If  the  tongues  are  large,  pale  and  flabby  the  hogs  should  have  corn 
and  cooked  roots  and  should  be  given  soda  in  the  feed. 

11.  Where  the  hogs  are  kept  on  clover,  a *d  root  vegetables  cannot  be 
given  them,  they  should  have  plenty  of  soda  and  lime. 

12.  Keep  their  pens  clean  and  free  from  lice  and  at  once  separate  any 
sick  ones  from  the  rest  of  the  herd. 

13.  See  that  they  have  plenty  of  charcoal,  ashes,  and  salt. 

14.  In  case  of  disease  use  disinfectants  freely. 


POULTRY.  I 

(Including  Roup,  Pip,  Gapes,  Diphtheria,  Bronchitis,  Catarrh,  Canker,  Crop-  • J 
Bound,  Inflammation  of  Egg  Passage,  Vertigo,  Rheumatism,  Scaly  Legs,  U 
Leg  Weakness,  Worms,  Diarrhea,  Chicken  Cholera,  Contagious  Bowel  J 
and  Liver  Disease,  White  Diarrhea,  Lice,  Caponizing  and  Valuable  Poul-  ) 
try  Secrets.)  ^ 


ROUP.— 

CAUSES. — Roup  is  caused  by  a micro-organism  and  of  course  is  a 
highly  contagious  disease  and  one  that  is  quite  destructive  to  poultry.  It 
is  supposed  to  result  from  other  debilitating  diseases  but  this  is  a mistake. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  early  symptoms  are  much  the  same  as  in  catarrh,  the 
discharge  being  thick,  sticky  and  offensive.  The  eyelids  swell,  the  sides  of 
the  face  bulge  and  the  bird  seems  to  grow  weak  rapidly  and  if  the  disease 
is  not  checked  death  results. 

TREATMENT. — When  this  contagious  disease  exists  in  a small  flock 
of  chickens  that  are  of  small  value  it  is  often  good  business  judgment  to  kill 
and  burn  every  one  of  the  fowls  for,  all  things  considered,  it  is  the  least 
expensive  way  out  of  the  trouble.  The  healthy  and  well  birds  should  be 
moved  away  at  once  to  a clean  place  and  the  diseased  ones  treated  where  they 
are.  This  will  prevent  spreading  the  contagion.  Give  at  once  a dessert 
spoonful  of  castor  oil  and  repeat  in  twelve  hours  if  it  does  not  act.  Put  a 
teaspoonful  of  carbolic  acid  and  a tablespoonful  of  glycerine  into  a pint  of 
water  and  syringe  some  into  the  slit  in  the  roof  of  the  mouth  twice  a day. 
Put  some  finely  powdered  boric  acid  into  the  eyes  daily  and  drop  a small 
quantity  of  calomel  into  the  eyes  three  times  a week.  Some  poultry  raisers 
use  kerosene  and  others  use  one  dram  of  sulphate  of  copper  dissolved  in  a pint 
of  water  and  inject  into  the  nose  once  a day.  The  coop  and  all  food  and 
water  dishes  should  be  either  scalded  or  disinfected  before  they  are  used. 
One  part  carbolic  acid  and  fifty  of  water  or  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant 
and  thirty  of  water  are  the  right  proportions.  If  you  do  not  thoroughly  dis- 
infect and  clean  the  poultry  house,  do  not  keep  other  well  poultry  in  it  for 
three  or  four  months. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  ROUP.— 

1.  Carbolic  Acid,  Etc. — The  eyes,  mouth  and  throat  should  be  bathed 
with  a solution  of  ten  grains  of  carbolic  acid  in  an  ounce  of  water.  Feed 
soft  feed  in  which  is  mixed  either  black  or  cayenne  pepper.  Also  put  a few 
drops  of  hartshorn  into  the  drinking  water.  Keep  in  a clean  warm  place. 

2.  Sulphur  and  Lard. — Mix  sulphur  and  lard,  make  into  pills  and  put 
a pill  into  the  throat  of  each  chicken  that  has  the  roup. 

3.  Coal  Oil. — Hold  the  chicken’s  head  under  coal  oil  until  it  breathes 
once. 

PIP. — This  ailment  usually  follows  sore  mouth,  a crust  or  scale  forming 
on  the  tip  of  the  tongue  which  seems  to  be  irritated  from  the  fowl’s  breath- 
ing through  the  mouth  when  the  head  is  stopped  up  from  catarrh  or  cold  in 
the  head. 

TREATMENT. — Soften  the  scale  by  applying  either  sweet  oil,  gly- 

224 


GAPE  WORMS  IN  WINDPIPE. 


SCALY  LEG. 


OPEN  FRONT  J’OULTRY  HOUSE. 

When  kept  in  open  front  houses  poultry  is  remarkably  free  from  disease, 
vas  curtain  is  dropped  when  weather  is  below  zero. 


A can- 


POULTRY  DISEASES. 


225 


cerine  or  cream  and  wash  out  the  mouth  with  a solution  of  boric  acid  and 
water,  which  is  made  by  dissolving  all  the  boric  acid  the  water  will  absorb. 
Or,  put  one  ounce  of  chlorate  of  potash  and  two  drams  of  borax  into  one 
quart  of  water  and  wash  out  the  mouth  twice  a day.  If  the  bowels  are  cos- 
tive give  a teaspoonful  of  castor  oil  daily  until  they  open. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PIP.— 

1.  Butter  and  Scotch  Snuif. — Remove  the  thickened  membrane  from  the 
tongue  with  the  finger  nails.  Make  some  pills  by  mixing  Scotch  snufif  with 
butter  and  put  two  or  three  of  these  pills  down  the  chicken’s  throat.  Keep 
the  chicken  from  the  cold  and  damp. 

2.  Butter,  Pepper,  Garlic  and  Horseradish. — Make  some  pills  by  mixing 
some  butter,  pepper,  garlic  and  horseradish  and,  after  removing  the  lump 
from  the  tongue,  put  two  or  three  of  these  pills  down  the  chicken’s  throat. 
GAPES.— 

CAUSES. — This  ailment  is  caused  by  a small  red  worm  which  lodges 
in  the  windpipe  of  chickens  from  two  to  five  months  old.  This  worm  is 
generally  closely  attached  to  the  lining  of  the  windpipe.  The  male  is  about 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  in  length  and  the  female  is  almost  twice  as  long  and 
they  are  very  often  found  close  together. 

SYMPTOMS. — When  chickens  have  gapes  they  usually  open  and  close 
the  mouth  frequently.  In  very  bad  cases  they  cough,  seem  droopy,  show 
great  weakness  and  soon  die.  When  opened  the  worms  are  found  without 
trouble. 

TREATMENT. — In  order  to  cure  the  gapes  you  must  be  able  to  kill  the 
worms  that  are  causing  it.  Take  a small  swab  or  stripped  feather,  dip  it 
into  either  tincture  of  chloride  of  iron  or  turpentine  and  insert  it  in  the 
opening  to  the  windpipe  at  the  base  of  the  tongue  and  turn  it  around  very 
gently  a time  or  two  and  then  withdraw.  This  will  perhaps  be  all  that  is 
necessary  to  effect  a cure.  In  very  young  chickens  apply  one  part  of  tur- 
pentine and  four  parts  of  lard  or  vaseline  to  the  throats  daily.  Season  the 
food  with  pepper,  onions,  ginger  or  gentian,  adding  some  asafetida.  Sepa- 
rate the  sick  and  well  and  keep  the  fowls  in  a dry  place.  Use  disinfectants 
freely  and  burn  the  droppings  of  the  sick  ones. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  GAPES  IN  POULTRY.—  ^ 

1.  Smoking  with  Tobacco. — Put  the  chickens  into  a box  containing  a 
pan  of  live  coals  upon  which  has  been  sprinkled  some  fine  cut  tobacco.  The 
pan  should  be  fixed  so  that  the  chickens  cannot  get  into  it  and  the  box 
should  be  covered  with  an  old  sack  or  piece  of  carpet.  The  chickens  should 
be  left  in  the  box  until  they  become  drunk  or  stupefied  but  not  long  enough 
to  smother  them.  The  first  time  you  try  this  treatment  you  will  think  you 
have  killed  all  your  chickens  but  if  they  are  watched  and  not  smoked  too  long 
there  is  no  danger  and  the  chickens  will  revive  when  fresh  air  is  admitted. 
The  tobacco  smoke  kills  the  little  red  worms  in  the  throat  which  are  the  cause 
of  gapes.  This  treatment  never  fails. 

2.  Air-Slacked  Lime. — Put  the  chickens  into  a tight  box  and  over  this 
spread  a piece  of  cloth  and  through  this  sift  some  air-slacked  lime.  The  air 
in  the  box  will  thus  be  full  of  fine  particles  of  lime  and  breathing  this  will 
kill  the  little  worms  that  cause  this  disease.  Do  not  leave  the  chickens 
in  the  box  long  enough  to  smother  them. 

3.  Camphor. — Put  camphor  in  the  drinking  water  if  you  would  cure 
the  chickens  of  gapes. 

3-16 


226 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


4.  Tallow  and  Oatmeal  Porridge. — Melt  a tallow  candle  and  mix  with 
a quart  of  thick  oatmeal  porridge  and  feed  to  the  chickens. 

5.  Turpentine. — Give  the  chick  five  or  six  drops  of  spirits  of  turpentine 
three  times  a day  until  cured.  Another  way  to  administer  the  turpentine  is 
to  dip  a feather  into  the  turpentine  and  then  carefully  swab  out  the  throat 
or  windpipe.  This  must  be  done  with  care. 

6.  Carbolic  Acid. — Put  some  carbolic  acid  into  a large  spoon  and  hold 
over  a lamp.  Hold  the  chicken’s  head  over  this  until  it  breathes  in  enough 
of  the  fumes  to  become  almost  suffocated.  This  will  kill  the  gape  worms 
that  cause  the  trouble. 

7.  Sulphur  and  Alum. — Mix  two  parts  of  sulphur  with  one  part  of  pul- 
verized alum  and  blow  this  mixture  down  the  throat.  This  may  be  re- 
peated two  or  three  times  if  necessary. 

8.  Soft  Soap. — Make  some  pills  by  mixing  some  soft  soap  with  dough 
and  give  each  chicken  one  of  these  pills. 

DIPHTHERIA. — This  disease  gives  rise  to  many  symptoms  which  are 
similar  to  roup  or  contagious  catarrh.  It  is  necessary  to  make  a close  ex- 
amination in  order  to  distinguish  between  the  two  diseases.  Being  a con- 
tagious disease  it  is  spread  in  much  the  same  manner. 

SYMPTOMS. — In  addition  to  the  symptoms  of  roup,  the  tongue,  mouth, 
throat  and  windpipe  are  covered  with  false  membranes  which  present  a 
grayish  color  and  when  removed  the  parts  underneath  are  left  raw  and  usu- 
ally bleeding.  This  condition  we  do  not  as  a rule  find  in  roup. 

TREATMENT. — The  treatment  should  be  similar  to  that  for  roup  but 
the  tongue  and  mouth  should  be  treated  with  one  part  glycerine  and  three 
parts  tincture  iodine  twice  a day  for  a few  days.  Then  apply  either  sweet 
oil  or  glycerine.  Put  a dessert  spoonful  of  carbolic  acid  into  a pint  of  water 
and  use  it  the  same  jas  for  roup.  I have  obtained  fairly  good  results  by  using 
protargol  and  water,  also  permanganate  of  potash  and  water,  and  thought 
that  coal-tar  disinfectant  applied  full  strength  helped  effect  a cure.  Sickly, 
weak  children,  and  in  fact  all  young  children,  should  be  kept  away  from  them. 
This  disease,  however,  differs  from  diphtheria  in  man  and  if  contracted  is 
not  nearly  so  dangerous. 

BRONCHITIS.— 

CAUSES. — When  catarrh  of  the  upper  air  passages  extends  into  the  tubes 
of  the  lungs  it  is  called  bronchitis. 

SYMPTOMS. — If  you  listen  with  the  ear  at  the  breast,  a wheezing  sound 
will  be  heard.  The  fov/1  holds  the  head  high,  coughs  some,  is  dumpish  and 
a bad  odor  comes  from  the  nose. 

TREATMENT. — Make  the  fowl  as  comfortable  as  possible  by  placing 
it  in  a clean,  well  ventilated  place.  Dip  the  nose  into  one  part  of  peroxide 
of  hydrogen  and  four  parts  of  water  twice  a day.  Steam  the  head  with 
carbolic  acid  and  hot  water  once  a day.  Put  one-half  ounce  of  chlorate  of 
potassium  and  one-fourth  ounce  of  citrate  of  iron  into  a gallon  of  drinking 
water  and  let  them  have  what  they  want.  If  the  bowels  are  costive  give  a 
teaspoonful  of  castor  oil  twice  a day  until  they  move  freely. 

CATARRH.— 

CAUSES. — Poultry  that  are  kept  in  damp  filthy  houses  or  coops  and  roost 
in  windy  places  are  very  likely  to  suffer  from  catarrh. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  eyelids  usually  swell  some.  At  first  a watery  dis- 
charge comes  from  the  nose  to  be  followed  later  by  a thicker  mucus  and  the 


POULTRY  DISEASES. 


227 


face  on  each  side  generally  swells  some.  In  bad  cases  the  fowls  breathe 
with  a little  difficulty. 

TREATMENT. — As  soon  as  possible  remove  the  fowls  to  a dry  com- 
fortable place  which  is  free  from  drafts  and  feed  them  easily-digested  food, 
highly  seasoned  with  either  black  or  red  pepper  or  ginger.  Wash  out  the 
mouth,  nostrils  and  eyes  with  a saturated  solution  of  boric  acid.  This  is 
prepared  by  dissolving  as  much  boric  acid  as  the  water  will  take  up  and  it 
should  be  applied  twice  a day.  One  part  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  four  parts 
of  water  applied  to  the  mouth  and  nostrils  removes  the  mucus  and  makes 
breathing  easier  and  thus  assists  in  bringing  about  a recovery. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  EPIZOOTIC.— 

1.  Tar  and  Asafetida. — Mix  some  tar  and  asafetida  and  give  ten  drops 
twice  a day  in  the  feed.  Also  feed  a warm  bran  mash  once  a day. 
CANKER.— 

CAUSES. — Feeding  chickens  filthy,  putrid  and  diseased  meat  and  keeping 
them  in  coops  that  are  filled  with  foul  gas  and  in  unsanitary  quarters  of  any 
kind  are  likely  to  induce  canker  in  fowls.  Musty,  badly-cured  grain  that 
has  been  kept  in  damp  places  also  seems  to  cause  canker. 

SYMPTOMS. — Suppurating  sores  on  the  top  of  the  head  and  also  in 
the  mouth  and  throat,  with  some  discharge  from  the  eyes  are  the  leading 
symptoms  of  canker. 

TREATMENT. — Wash  the  sores  with  peroxide  of  hydrogen,  one  part, 
and  water  three  parts,  twice  a day.  Ten  minutes  later  apply  boric  acid 
and  water,  as  much  acid  as  the  water  will  absorb ; or,  one  part  of  carbolic  acid 
to  thirty  parts  of  water  should  be  carefully  applied  to  the  ulcers  twice  daily. 
Touching  the  sore  with  one  part  of  sulphate  of  copper  and  fifty  parts  of  water 
helps  heal  them.  Any  good  family  mouth  wash  or  healing  powder  will 
help  heal  canker  sores  in  chickens. 

CROP-BOUND.— 

CAUSES. — Chickens  that  swallow  pieces  of  bone  or  sticks  and  eat  too 
much  food  that  is  dry,  which,  when  meeting  with  moisture  becomes  a hard 
mass,  are  the  fowls  which  suffer  from  crop-bound. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  loss  of  appetite,  dullness  and  drowsiness  and 
the  crop  is  bulged  out  and  very  hard. 

TREATMENT. — Give  castor  oil,  sweet  oil,  fresh  butter  or  lard  to  soften 
the  contents  of  the  crop.  Then  hold  the  head  down,  hand-rub  the  crop  and 
gradually  work  the  food  out  of  the  body.  If  this  fails,  open  the  crop  and  re- 
move its  contents,  then  stitch  up  the  crop  and  the  chicken  will  soon  be  well. 
After  this  operation  feed  often  but  not  much  food  at  a time  as  the  crop 
should  not  be  distended  too  much  until  it  is  healed. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  EGG  PASSAGE.— It  is  not  always  an 
easy  matter  to  tell  what  brings  on  an  inflammation  of  the  egg  passage  but, 
fortunately,  it  is  not  by  any  means  a common  ailment  in  poultry. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  are  an  inflamed  inside  of  the  passage  and 
frequent  straining.  If  the  yolk  of  the  egg  is  pressed  out  and  is  found  cov- 
ered with  blood,  the  whole  passage  is  then  more  or  less  irritated.  The  chicken 
has  fever  and  the  feathers  appear  dry  and  rough. 

TREATMENT. — Give  epsom  salts  to  open  the  bowels;  one-half  tea- 
spoonful is  a full  dose  for  a large  chicken  and  the  medicine  should  be  given 
daily  until  the  desired  effect  is  produced.  Also  give  one-fourth  grain  of  calo- 
mel to  act  on  the  liver,  and  this  medicine  should  be  given  twice  a week  for 


228 


TIJE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


two  weeks.  Feed  vegetables  instead  of  grain  while  the  fowl  has  fever.  A 
chicken  of  small  value  is  hardly  worth  what  it  costs  to  treat  it. 

APOPLEXY. — Apoplexy  is  generally  brought  on  by  too  generous  feeding 
and  insufficient  exercise  and  is  perhaps  sometimes  the  result  of  straining  in 
laying  eggs.  It  is  also  induced  by  keeping  fowls  in  close  confinement  in 
filthy  coops  where  the  air  is  foul. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  attack  is  sudden  and  death  follows  quickly.  How- 
ever, if  the  case  is  a mild  one  the  chicken  is  dumpish  and  stupid  for  several 
days  before  it  comes  on. 

TREATMENT. — More  can  be  done  in  the  line  of  prevention  than  in 
the  way  of  curing.  After  the  attack  is  on  it  is  generally  too  late  for  treat- 
ment for  the  chicken  soon  dies.  If  the  chicken  is  noticed  to  be  dizzy  or  in- 
clined to  fall,  apply  cold  applications  to  the  head  or  let  a stream  of  cold  water 
run  on  the  head  for  a few  minutes.  Give  epsom  salts  to  open  the  bowels  and 
reduce  the  food  supply,  especially  their  grain  ration. 

VERTIGO.— 

CAUSES. — This  dizzy,  fitty  condition  of  fowls  is  generally  the  result  of 
high  feeding  on  rich  nutritious  food,  want  of  exercise,  too  much  hot  sun  or 
worms. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  chicken  usually  runs  in  a sort  of  circle  with  the  head 
high  and  frequently  falls  down. 

TREATMENT. — As  soon  as  possible  apply  ice  water  to  the  head  or  turn 
on  a stream  of  cold  water.  Give  a cathartic  such  as  a dessert  spoonful  of 
castor  oil  or  a few  grains  of  jalap  or  one-half  dram  of  either  sulphate  of  soda 
or  sulphate  of  magnesia  or  two  tablespooonfuls  of  sweet  oil  or  raw  linseed 
od.  Feed  vegetables  and  keep  in  a cool  place,  also  make  the  fowls  exercise 
some  every  day. 

RHEUMATISM.— 

CAUSES. — This  comes  from  eating  too  much  lean  meat,  running  in  tall 
wet  grass,  being  out  in  rainy  weather  too  much  and  roosting  in  foul  damp 
places.  It  also  comes  from  eating  too  much  sour  acid-producing  food. 

SYMPTOMS. — Shifting  lameness  is  one  of  the  most  certain  symptoms 
of  rheumatic  ailments.  The  foot  or  lower  joints  are  most  often  affected. 

TREATMENT. — A removal  of  the  cause  is  the  first  step  that  should  be 
taken  in  the  treatment  of  this  ailment.  Keep  the  fowls  in  a dry  place,  change 
their  food  and  if  the  bowels  are  costive  give  one-third  teaspoonful  of  epsom 
salts  or  Glauber’s  salts  to  open  the  bowels.  Also  give  two  grains  of  salicylate 
of  soda  or  the  same  quantity  of  salicylic  acid ; or,  give  either  citrate  or  carbon- 
ate of  potash  in  two-grain  doses  twice  or  three  times  a day.  Apply  equal  parts 
of  spirits  of  camphor,  witch  hazel  and  alcohol  to  the  sore  joints  twice  a day. 
SCALY  LEGS.— 

CAUSES. — This  ailment  is  the  result  of  small  parasites  which  burrow 
under  the  skin.  It  is  a contagious  disease ; therefore,  should  not  be  neglected. 

TREATMENT. — The  coal-tar  preparations  applied  full  strength  or 
kerosene  applied  to  the  legs  every  day  or  two  will  soon  make  them  better. 
The  diseased  ones  should  be  removed  from  the  healthy  and  kept  away  until 
all  the  diseased  poultry  are  cured.  Apply  kerosene  about  the  hen  coop  and 
disinfect  thoroughly  or  you  will  fail  to  stamp  it  out.  It  is  a good  plan  to 
scrape  and  clean  the  legs  thoroughly  but,  before  doing  so,  soak  the  feet  and 
legs  in  warm  water  and  then  scrape  off  the  scales.  Do  not  neglect  to  apply 
some  kerosene  to  the  legs  occasionally,  also  some  vaseline  two  or  three  times 


POULTRY  DISEASES. 


229 


a week  until  you  are  sure  the  fowls  are  free  from  disease.  Washing  the  legs 
with  soap  and  water,  adding  a tablespoonful  of  kerosene  to  each  quart  of  suds, 
will  keep  the  legs  in  good  condition. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  EOR  SCALY  LEGS.— 

1.  Crude  Oil. — Apply  crude  oil  or  blackstrap  to  the  scaly  legs. 

2.  Kerosene  and  Lard. — Mix  a teaspoonful  of  kerosene  oil  with  two 
ounces  of  lard  and  apply  thoroughly  to  the  legs  of  the  chickens  affected. 
LEG  WEAKNESS.— 

CAUSES. — It  is  not  always  an  easy  matter  to  tell  what  is  causing  leg 
weakness  in  poultry.  However,  inbreeding,  close  confinement,  want  of  suffi- 
cient outdoor  air  and  exercise  and  lack  of  proper  food  to  nourish  the  body 
are  among  the  causes.  Young  male  fowls  seem  to  be  the  ones  most  likely 
to  become  affected  and  the  larger  breeds  appear  to  suffer  most.  This  ailment 
is  very  often  a result  of  some  other  sickness  and  I have  known  of  debilitated 
fowls,  that  had  become  so  from  being  lousy,  to  be  treated  for  leg  weakness.  It* 
is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  poultry  should  be  fed  a balanced  ration  from  the 
time  they  are  hatched.  If  not,  they  may  become  rickety  and  leg  weak. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  bird  walks  with  difficulty,  is  inclined  to  stop  and 
rest  very  often  and  in  many  cases  is  unable  to  stand  at  all.  Strange  to  say, 
upon  examination  of  the  legs  they  are  very  often  found  free  from  pain  or 
swelling. 

TREATMENT. — Be  sure  to  examine  for  lice  of  all  kinds  before  pre- 
scribing treatment  and,  if  possible,  remove  the  cause  for  this  may  be  the 
means  of  your  success  in  making  them  well.  To  be  successful  in  treating 
such  an  ailment  you  should  first  try  hard  to  ascertain  the  cause.  After  a re- 
moval of  the  cause  the  symptoms  will  soon  moderate  and  the  fowl  perhaps 
recover.  Feed  some  meat,  grain  and  vegetables;  also  give  five  grains  citrate 
of  iron  at  a dose  twice  a day;  or  give  some  copperas  and  phosphate  of  lime 
in  their  feed  twice  daily.  Give  them  lime  water  to  drink  or  give  some  lime 
in  their  feed.  The  dose  of  copperas  is  six  or  eight  grains  and  ten  grains  of 
phosphate  of  lime  is  a dose.  However,  neither  are  very  poisonous  and  larger 
doses  can  be  given.  Lime  is  a very  common  remedy  for  leg  weakness  but  it 
should  be  air-slacked  before  it  is  fed.  One-quarter  of  a teaspoonful  at  a dose 
is  enough  and  it  should  be  given  once  or  twice  a day.  Be  sure  to  allow  the 
chickens  to  exercise,  and  feed  them  some  vegetables. 

WORMS. — Poultry  that  run  on  the  same  small  lot  year  after  year  always 
get  wormy  and  suffer  from  both  round  worms  and  tapeworms.  It  is  true 
that  many  fowls  do  not  have  enough  worms  to  interfere  with  their  general 
health ; however,  a great  many  chickens  have  enough  to  prevent  their  grow- 
ing as  rapidly  as  they  would  if  free  from  them. 

SYMPTOMS. — If  a chicken  has  many  worms  it  will  seem  dull,  some- 
times purge,  grow  thin  and  lose  condition,  become  uneasy  and  will  not 
thrive.  If  the  bowel  movements  are  closely  examined  you  will  find  the  ex- 
crement contains  many  small  worms  and  eggs.  I suggest  the  use  of  your 
magnifying  glass  to  determine  whether  the  dung  contains  small  worms,  eggs 
or  worm  embryo. 

TREATMENT. — For  the  round  worms  give  a teaspoonful  of  castor  oil 
to  which  has  been  added  five  grains  of  powdered  kamala  and  ten  drops  of 
turpentine.  Or,  give  three  grains  sulphate  of  iron  and  ten  grains  ground  gen- 
tian ; or,  feed  the  fowls  some  pumpkin  seeds  or  carrots  either  raw  or  cooked. 

I prefer  to  feed  the  carrots  raw.  Or,  give  santonine  in  doses  of  one,  two,  or 


230 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


even  three  grains  to  a large  chicken,  once  a day  on  an  empty  crop.  If  you 
are  sure  any  of  your  fowls  have  tapeworms,  do  not  feed  them  for  15  or  20 
hours  and  then  give  five  grains  of  powdered  kamala,  five  drops  oil  male  fern 
and  eight  drops  turpentine  in  a teaspoonful  of  castor  oil  and  it  will  be  quite 
sure  to  bring  the  tapeworm  away. 

DIARRHEA.— 

CAUSES. — This  is  caused  by  exposure  to  too  much  wet  during  cold 
weather,  by  filth,  and  by  feeding  on  too  much  constipating  food  without 
exercise.  It  is  also  caused  by  eating  early  grass,  roosting  in  damp  places  and 
is  often  the  result  of  other  ailments. 

TREATMENT. — Feed  well  cooked  barley  meal  and  add  some  ginger, 
catechu  and  prepared  chalk.  In  order  to  check  the  excessive  bowel  dis- 
charges give  four  drops  of  tincture  of  opium,  four  drops  of  spirits  of  camphor 
and  three  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  cinnamon,  every  six  hours  until  the  medi- 
cine seems  to  produce  results.  Put  sulphate  of  iron  in  their  drinking  water. 
If  the  fowl  is  not  too  weak  when  taken  sick,  a teaspoonful  of  castor  oil  will 
do  good. 

CHICKEN  CHOLERA.— 

CAUSES. — This  contagious  disease  is  caused  by  a micro-organism  and 
is  perhaps  produced  by  crowding  poultry  into  filthy,  damp,  ill-ventilated 
quarters  and  by  forcing  them  to  live  on  dirty,  filthy  and  unwholesome  food. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  fowl  is  always  dull,  dumpish  and  droopy.  It  has 
great  thirst  and  walks  slowly.  The  comb  and  wattles  grow  pale  and  lose 
freshness  and  the  crop  fills  with  gas,  digestion  ceases,  diarrhea  sets  in  and 
the  passages  are  yellow  and  quite  frequent.  The  breathing  is  quick  and 
the  eyes  appear  very  dull  and  are  partly  closed  and  the  fowl  soon  dies. 

TREATMENT. — The  first  step  should  be  to  remove  the  healthy  from 
the  sick  and  thoroughly  disinfect  the  coop.  Veterinarians  and  chicken  raisers 
are  not  yet  quite  sure  that  a remedy  has  been  found  for  cholera.  I believe  in 
burning  all  refuse  and  roosting  poles.  Then  saturate  the  floor  with  one  part 
of  carbolic  acid  and  ninety-nine  parts  of  water  daily  for  a few  days.  Also 
apply  this  to  all  the  interior  of  the  coop  or  whitewash  with  chloride  of  lime. 
Also  use  coal-tar  disinfectant  freely  about  the  premises  and  continue  to  do  so 
until  you  are  certain  that  no  infection  remains.  Should  any  fowl  show  any 
of  the  symptoms  of  cholera  remove  it  at  once.  By  doing  so  you  will  finally 
get  rid  of  this  disease.  Many  times  thoroughness  as  to  cleaning  will  prevent 
the  disease  spreading,  so  do  not  be  slack  in  dealing  with  this  highly  con- 
tagious ailment.  'I  have  obtained  good  results  by  giving  carbolic  acid  in  small 
doses.  Put  one  dram  into  one  quart  of  water  and  give  each  fowl  a teaspoon- 
ful at  a dose  two  or  fhree  times  a day.  Or,  give  hypo-sulphite  of  soda  and 
gentian.  Put  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  hypo-sulphite  of  soda  and  three 
ounces  of  tincture  of  gentian  into  one  quart  of  water  and  give  one  teaspoonful 
at  a dose  two  or  three  times  a day.  Another  inexpensive  remedy  is  made 
by  dissolving  two  or  three  drams  of  sulphate  of  iron  in  a quart  of  water 
and  giving  a dessert  spoonful  to  each  full  grown  chicken  two  or  three  times 
a day.  Keep  your  poultry  strong  by  giving  tonics  such  as  gentian,  cinchona 
and  ginger  in  the  feed  twice  a day. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  CHICKEN  CHOLERA.— 

1.  Kerosene. — Feed  corn  that  has  been  soaked  in  kerosene  for  ten  or 
twelve  hours.  Repeat  several  times. 

2.  Cholera  Mixture. — Take  one  pound  each  of  charcoal  and  sulphur. 


POULTRY  DISEASES. 


231 


one-half  pound  of  copperas,  ten  grains  of  calomel  and  one  grain  of  salicylic 
acid.  Mix,  and  grind  to  a fine  powder.  The  dose  is  a tablespoonful  for  a 
dozen  fowls.  Give  once  a day  in  moist  meal. 

3.  Salt,  Etc. — Mix  plenty  of  salt  with  the  feed.  Also  keep  plenty  of 
fresh  water  before  them  and  keep  their  surroundings  clean. 

4.  Douglass  Mixture. — Carefully  mix  an  ounce  of  sulphuric  acid  with  a 
gallon  of  water.  In  another  gallon  of  water  dissolve  half  a pound  of  cop- 
peras. Mix  the  two  together  and  keep  tightly  corked.  Put  from  two  tea- 
spoonfuls to  two  tablespoonfuls  into  each  quart  of  drinking  water.  This  is 
a good  tonic  and  a preventive  and  cure  for  cholera. 

5.  Castor  Oil  and  Carbolic  Acid. — Into  each  gallon  of  drinking  water 
put  one-half  teaspoonful  of  carbolic  acid.  Also  give  each  chicken  a teaspoon- 
ful of  castor  oil. 

6.  Salts. — As  a preventive  put  a teaspoonful  of  salts  into  each  gallon 
of  drinking  water. 

7.  Alum  and  Saltpeter. — Dissolve  alum  and  saltpeter  in  the  drinking 
water.  Use  equal  parts  of  each.  This  is  a preventive  of  chicken  cholera. 

8.  Carbolic  Acid  and  Glycerine. — To  a quart  of  water  add  a dram  of 
carbolic  acid  and  an  ounce  of  glycerine  and  of  this  mixture  use  two  table- 
spoonfuls to  a gallon  of  drinking  water. 

9.  Onions  and  Ginger. — Put  chopped  onions  and  ginger  in  the  feed 
once  a day  for  a week  or  so. 

BLACK  HEAD— CONTAGIOUS  BOWEL  AND  LIVER  DISEASE.— 

CAUSES. — This  disease  is  caused  by  a micro-organism  belonging  to  a 
family  called  the  protozoa.  These  parasites  are  no  doubt  taken  in  with  the 
food  or  water  supply  and  upon  reaching  the  two  blind  portions  of  the  intes- 
tinal tract  they  halt  and  there  multiply  rapidly,  setting  up  more  or  less 
inflammation  and  enlarging  the  bowels  and  liver.  A thickening  of  the  walls 
of  the  intestines  takes  place  and  the  liver  becomes  covered  with  spots  yellow 
in  color. 

SYMPTOMS. — During  the  early  part  of  the  sickness  the  fowl  appears 
dull,  hangs  the  head  and  some  time  later  the  bowels  loosen  and  move  too 
freely,  then  the  bird  begins  to  show  unthriftiness.  Young  fowls  are  the 
most  likely  to  suffer  and  the  disease  runs  a slow  course.  Very  often  the  comb 
loses  its  rich  red  color  and  turns  dark,  hence  the  name  ‘‘  black  head.”  When 
opened  after  death,  the  liver  is  found  to  be  too  large  and  usually  covered 
with  grayish-yellow  spots.  The  intestines  are  inflamed  and  their  wall  very 
thick. 

TREATMENT. — Very  little  can  be  done  for  turkeys  or  chickens  when 
they  suffer  from  black  head  more  than  to  give  tonics.  Feed  them  well  and 
give  hypo-sulphite  of  soda  in  the  drinking  water ; or,  give  copperas  or 
gentian  in  the  feed.  When  this  disease  finds  its  way  into  a flock  of  turkeys, 
dispose  of  them  as  soon  as  possible  for  the  disease  is  not  going  to  be  easily 
checked.  It  is  always  a difficult  task  to  get  rid  of  this  disease  and  if  you 
fail,  dispose  of  the  whole  flock  and  give  up  raising  turkeys  for  not  less  than 
two  years.  Then  you  can  pretty  safely  start  over  again. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PARASITIC  BOWEL  DISEASE.— 

1.  Citrate  of  Iron. — Dissolve  40  grains  of  citrate  of  iron  in  each  quart  of 
drinking  water. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  LICE.— 

1.  Sulphur  as  a Preventive. — Two  or  three  times  a week  put  a handful 
of  sulphur  into  the  feed  and  the  chickens  will  never  be  troubled  with  lice. 


232 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


2.  Kerosene  and  Lard. — Kerosene  and  lard  make  a mixture  that  vv^ill 
kill  the  lice  every  time. 

3.  Dust  and  Ashes. — Mix  wood  ashes  with  fine  dry  road  dust  and  keep  in 
the  hen  house  all  the  time.  Also  add  a little  carbolic  acid  to  some  white- 
wash and  whitewash  the  premises  occasionally. 

4.  Castor  Oil. — A little  castor  oil  rubbed  on  the  head  and  under  the 
wings  of  setting  hens  will  prove  effective. 

5.  Coal  Oil. — Spray  the  house,  roosts  and  nests  every  two  or  three  weeks 
with  a mixture  of  equal  parts  of  kerosene  oil  and  water. 

6.  Tobacco  or  Sulphur. — A few  leaves  of  tobacco  or  a little  sulphur  in 
the  nests  of  setting  hens  will  keep  away  the  lice. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  PULLING  AND  EATING 
FEATHERS.— 

1.  Salt. — Put  a teaspoonful  of  salt  into  two  quarts  of  moistened  meal 
or  shorts  and  give  twice  a week.  If  the  fowls  have  plenty  of  salt  they  will 
not  form  the  habit  of  pulling  and  eating  their  feathers. 

2.  Salt  Pork. — Chop  some  salt  pork  with  the  feed  and  give  twice  a 
week  if  you  would  prevent  this  habit. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  TONIC  FOR  POULTRY.— 

1.  Black  Pepper. — To  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  corn  meal  add  one 
ounce  of  black  pepper.  This  is  a stimulant  and  tonic  for  all  kinds  of  poul- 
try. 

PEOPLE’S  HOME  REMEDIES  FOR  EGG-EATING  HENS.— 

1.  Mustard. — Let  out  the  contents  of  an  egg  through  a small  opening 
in  the  large  end.  Beat  some  strong  mustard  into  the  egg  and  refill  the 
shell,  pasting  a piece  of  cloth  over  the  opening.  Place  where  the  hens  can 
get  at  it  and  after  attempting  to  eat  it  they  are  very  likely  to  think  twice 
before  trying  to  eat  another  egg. 

WHITE  DIARRHEA. — White  diarrhea  in  poultry  is  caused  by  a germ 
of  low  vitality  which  harbors  in  the  c^cum,  or  blind  intestinal  pouch,  and  sets 
up  irritation  and  excessive  bowel  action  causing  great  weakness  and  very 
often  death.  Chicks  between  two  and  six  weeks  old  and  even  younger  seem 
to  be  the  ones  generally  affected. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  dullness,  weakness,  and  loss  of  appetite  accom- 
panied by  a white,  pasty  fecal  discharge. 

TREATMENT. — Treatment  in  such  cases  is  by  no  means  satisfactory 
for  this  ailment  is  not  well  understood;  however,  fairly  good  results  follow 
giving  small  doses  of  castor  oil,  sweet  oil  or  turpentine ; or,  dissolve  five  or 
ten  grains  of  citrate  of  iron  in  each  gallon  of  their  drinking  water. 

Prevention. — More  can  be  accomplished  in  the  line  of  prevention  than  by 
medication  after  the  chick  takes  sick.  Eggs  used  for  hatching  should  be 
cleansed  by  washing  them  in  a ninety-five  per  cent,  solution  of  alcohol  and 
if  an  incubator  is  used  it  should  first  be  thoroughly  disinfected.  Formalde- 
hyde is  the  best  disinfectant  to  use ; also  expose  the  incubator  to  sunlight  and 
fresh  air  or  put  in  a heated  oven.  The  egg  trays  should  be  thoroughly  steril- 
ized as  often  as  convenient.  The  brooders  should  also  come  in  for  their 
share  of  disinfection  and  sterilization ; they  should  be  kept  scrupulously 
clean.  It  is  also  important  to  treat  the  ground  that  the  chicks  run  on — this 
should  be  kept  clean ; it  should  be  cultivated  and  lime  mixed  through  the 
soil;  furthermore,  the  land  should  be  exposed  to  the  sunlight.  If  hens  are 


DR.  FAIR  CAPON  IZIXG  A ROOSTl'.R. 

Capons  bring  fanc\'  prices  and  much  money  is  made  b}'  poultry  raisers  who  under- 
stand caponizing. 

(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


POULTRY— CAPONIZING. 


233 


to  hatch  out  the  eggs  their  nests  should  be  clean  or  composed  of  fresh  straw 
or  absorbent  cotton  with  a little  oakum  or  tar  paper  in  the  bottom. 

CAPONIZING. 

It  is  needless  for  me  to  say  that  caponizing  cockerels,  if  done  properly, 
will  prove  profitable  to  poultry  raisers.  The  operation  is  by  no  means  a diffi- 
cult one  to  perform  and  it  requires  but  a few  lessons  to  teach  any  poultry 
raiser  how  to  operate,  but  before  attempting  to  do  so  secure  a set  of  instru- 
ments suitable  for  doing  the  work  and  it  will  pay  you  well. 

Directions. — Select  the  cockerels  you  expect  to  operate  on,  place  them  in 
a dry  clean  place  that  has  been  disinfected,  give  them  neither  food  nor  water 
for  thirty  hours  or  feed  them  lightly  for  a day  or  two  to  have  the  bowels  as 
empty  as  possible.  Place  the  fowl  on  his  left  side,  tie  his  legs  with  a tape  or 
string,  also  tie  the  wings  together  and  fasten  to  a 2-lb.  weight  or  to  table 
and  the  legs  may  also  be  tied  to  table ; this  keeps  the  fowl  in  position  during 
the  operation.  Clip  off  feathers  just  in  front  of  the  thigh  joint;  apply  one 
part  bichloride  of  mercury  and  one  thousand  parts  water  to  the  skin  or  use  per- 
oxide of  hydrogen  or  carbolic  acid,  one  part  to  fifty  of  water.  Make  an 
incision  not  more  than  two  inches  nor  less  than  one  and  one-half  inches  long 
between  the  last  two  ribs.  Avoid  cutting  the  intestines  (if  they  are  full  you 
may  do  it  occasionally).  If  the  wound  bleeds,  halt  a moment  until  it  ceases. 
Use  the  spreader  to  keep  the  wound  open;  pick  up  glistening  lining  with  a 
hook ; cut  or  tear  it  open  to  get  into  the  bird ; then  you  will  plainly  see  one 
testicle  lying  close  up  to  back  and  covered  with  a sort  of  film  which  can  either 
be  cut  open  or  taken  away  with  the  testicle.  Now  slip  the  wire  between  the 
artery  and  testicle,  making  a loop ; and  then  cut  off  testicle.  Then  repeat 
the  operation  in  removing  the  other  testicle  through  the  same  opening. 
Understand,  the  loop  is  brought  through  a canula  and  the  end  of  canula 
should  be  kept  down  close  to  the  testicle  when  it  is  cut  off.  Caution. — 
Be  sure  to  drop  no  dirt  or  pieces  of  feathers  into  the  abdomen  when  operating; 
have  clean  instruments  and  hands  when  you  operate  and  remember  that  most 
deaths  occur  from  hemorrhage.  This  is  on  account  of  cutting  off  an  artery 
which  lies  just  back  of  the  testicle.  I find  that  many  poultry  raisers  do  not 
use  proper  cleanliness  when  operating.  I have  never  failed  to  teach  farmers 
quickly  how  to  caponize  but  it  should  be  done  only  by  showing  them  how 
and  standing  over  them  during  their  first  operations. 


VALUABLE  POULTRY  SECRETS. 


SPROUTED  OATS. 

A Great  Egg  Producer. 

How  to  Make  a Bushel  of  Green  Winter  Feed  for  Ten  Cents. — Cover 
a pailful  of  ordinary  oats  with  water  and  if  it  is  summer  time  let  them  soak 
for  five  or  six  hours  but  if  winter  time  they  should  soak  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Then  turn  them  into  a pail  twice  the  size  of  the  first  one  and  that  has  pre- 
viously had  a half-inch  hole  bored  in  the  bottom  so  as  to  allow  drainage.  Set 
them  in  a moderately  warm  place  for  three  or  four  days  or  until  they  are  well 


234 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


sprouted  and  begin  to  heat.  They  should  be  sprinkled  with  water  once  a day 
and  should  always  be  kept  covered  with  a blanket  or  old  sack.  It  is  best 
to  grow  them  in  a cellar.  In  the  summer  time  use  cold  water  and  in  the 
winter  warm  water.  When  they  have  become  a mass  of  sprouts  they  should 
be  spread  three  or  four  inches  thick  in  a box  that  has  also  had  one  or  two 
half-inch  holes  bored  in  it.  When  in  this  box  they  should  also  be  sprinkled 
and  stirred  each  day.  They  make  the  best  feed  when  the  sprouts  are  from 
half  an  inch  to  an  inch  long.  One  bushel  of  good  oats  properly  treated  will 
make  four  or  five  bushels  of  sprouted  or  processed  oats.  In  this  way  you 
not  only  get  the  full  value  of  the  nutriment  in  the  oats  but  you  also  have  a 
green  food  for  winter  use  that  will  start  the  hens  to  laying  quickly.  Twice 
a day  give  the  laying  hens  all  they  will  eat,  A teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  added  to  each  pailful  of  oats  will  give  excellent  results. 
When  the  sprouts  are  half  an  inch  long  they  make  a fine  chick  food  and 
may  be  given  to  chicks  three  times  a day  after  they  are  a week  old.  This 
makes  a good  food  for  turkeys,  ducks  and  geese  as  well  as  chickens. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY  ON  CHICKENS. 

Rules  and  Suggestions  Gathered  from  the  Most  Successful  Poultry  Raisers 

in  the  World. 

1.  Use  open-front  hen  houses  or  houses  open  on  the  south  side  and 
only  protected  by  muslin  curtains.  Curtains  to  be  dropped  in  zero  weather 
only. 

2.  Keep  houses  perfectly  clean.  Dropping  boards  to  be  cleaned  at  least 
once  a week  and  floors  as  often  as  the  litter  becomes  soiled  or  damp. 

3.  At  least  twice  a year  whitewash  the  buildings  thoroughly,  using 
carbolic  acid  in  the  whitewash  to  keep  away  vermin.  If  this  is  done  you  will 
not  be  troubled  with  mites. 

4.  To  get  eggs  in  winter  you  must  make  the  hens  exercise.  Do  this 
by  keeping  the  floor  well  covered  with  from  six  to  twelve  inches  of  clean, 
dry  straw  in  which  scatter  the  morning  and  evening  feed,  thus  making  them 
work  for  what  they  get  to  eat. 

5.  Feed  all  the  hens  will  eat,  twice  a day.  Feed  a balanced  ration, 
giving  wheat,  oats  and  barley  in  equal  portions  and  in  the  summer  add  an 
equal  portion  of  corn  but  in  the  winter  add  three  times  as  much  corn.  The 
proportions  may  be  varied  to  suit  the  inclination  of  the  fowls. 

6.  You  cannot  expect  many  eggs  in  the  winter  unless  you  give  plenty 
of  green  food.  Sliced  beets  are  good,  also  keep  the  feeding  rack  full  of  short 
cut  clover.  The  hens  are  fond  of  clover  and  you  can  depend  on  its  produc- 
ing eggs.  Sprinkle  the  clover  with  water  and  let  it  stand  a day  before  feeding. 

7.  A good  and  inexpensive  green  food  is  made  by  sprouting  oats.  You 
thus  get  a good  green  food  for  winter  use  at  a cost  of  about  ten  cents  per 
bushel.  Directions  for  making  these  sprouted  or  processed  oats  are  given 
elsewhere. 

8.  Keep  beef  scrap,  oyster  shell,  and  grit  constantly  before  the  hens. 
Keep  these  in  hoppers  to  avoid  waste. 

9.  Keep  fresh,  clean,  drinking  water  before  the  fowls  all  the  time.  Cleon 
the  water  dishes  every  day. 


VALUABLE  POULTRY  SECRETS. 


235 


10.  Avoid  disease  by  the  free  use  of  disinfectants,  such  as  carbolic  acid 
and  formaldehyde. 

11.  Keep  a box  of  clean,  dry  dust  in  a sunny  corner  of  the  poultry  house. 
This  is  important. 

12.  Do  not  over-crowd  the  hens  and  do  not  keep  too  many  in  one 
building. 

13.  Hens  do  best  in  flocks  of  not  more  than  fifty. 

14.  Allow  one  cock  for  every  twelve  or  fifteen  hens  in  the  breeding  pens. 
No  cocks  in  the  laying  pens. 

15.  Allow  plenty  of  fresh  air  at  all  times  but  do  not  have  drafts. 

16.  Keep  the  hens  free  from  lice. 

17.  In  the  summer  the  chickens  should  have  free  range.  If  this  is  im- 
possible they  should  be  supplied  with  plenty  of  green  food. 

18.  For  breeding  purposes  use  only  your  best  and  healthiest  stock. 

19.  If  you  want  to  breed  for  the  best  egg  production,  get  trap  nests 
and  keep  a record  of  each  hen  and  breed  only  from  the  hens  that  show  the 
greatest  yearly  production  of  eggs. 

20.  In  the  poultry  business  it  is  attention  to  details  that  counts.  Ob- 
serve regularity  in  feeding,  cleaning,  and  filling  the  hoppers  and  look  after 
the  comfort  of  the  hens  at  all  times. 

21.  One  breed  well  cared  for  will  pay  better  than  too  many  breeds. 

22.  If  you  feed  a mash  do  so  in  the  morning  but  do  not  feed  enough  to 
keep  them  from  exercising.  Many  poultry  raisers  give  dry  feed  exclusively. 


HOUSEHOLD  PETS 


DOGS. 

FEEDING  DOGS. — In  feeding  dogs  there  seem  to  be  many  wrong 
opinions  and  numerous  ancient  traditions  are  being  followed  that  are  far  from 
right.  I even  know  people  who  believe  it  dangerous  to  give  a pup  several 
months  old  a piece  of  meat,  holding  fast  to  the  belief  that  the  dog  should  have 
no  meat  until  he  has  lived  twelve  months  or  more.  Meat  is  not  harmful 
to  pups  after  they  are  three  or  four  months  old,  but  of  course  the  meat  should 
be  well  cooked  and  fed  in  small  quantities  and  mixed  with  other  things  in 
order  to  balance  the  ration.  After  the  pup  is  weaned  table  scraps  or  puppy 
biscuits  with  plenty  of  milk  seem  to  grow  them  evenly.  Pups  should  be  fed 
twice  daily ; aged  dogs  once.  Meat,  vegetables,  cereals  and  milk  is  a proper 
ration.  Well  cooked  meat  mixed  with  rice  or  corn  meal  mush  makes  a good 
dog  food.  The  food-holding  utensils  should  be  scalded  with  hot  water  once 
a day.  Feed  the  house  dog  his  hearty  meal  in  the  early  part  of  the  day. 

CANINE  DISTEMPER. — This  disease  has  existed  for  nearly  a thousand 
years  and  has  always  been  considered  a dangerous  ailment  in  young  pups, 
but  not  nearly  so  fatal  to  dogs  more  than  a year  old.  The  contagion  is 
contained  in  the  discharge  from  the  nose  and  eyes  and  in  the  blood.  Dis- 
temper is  a contagious  infective  disease.  The  true  nature  of  this  ailment 
has  not  yet  been  positively  demonstrated ; however,  the  contagion  is  no 
doubt  both  fixed  and  volatile.  It  is  transmitted  by  co-habitation,  by  in- 
oculation and  perhaps  taken  from  the  air  in  breathing.  Old  dogs  seldom 
suffer  from  canine  distemper.  Weak,  delicate  dogs  or  those  kept  in-doors 
are  easily  infected. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  of  distemper  vary  greatly.  The  mucous 
membrane  of  the  nostrils,  eyes,  air  passages  and  digestive  organs  are  inflamed. 
The  brain  and  spinal  cord  may  be  affected.  The  dog  shivers  and  has  fever; 
the  coat  is  dry,  the  eyes  discharge  and  ulcers  sometimes  appear  on  the  eye- 
ball. The  dog  coughs,  loses  his  appetite,  is  thirsty,  vomits  and  the  bowels 
are  either  costive  or  too  loose.  It  is  not  unusual  for  pneumonia  to  follow 
distemper. 

TREATMENT. — It  is  quite  difficult  to  lay  down  any  particular  line  of 
treatment  for  there  are  so  many  different  forms  of  distemper;  therefore, 
I will  say  quinine  is  a useful  remedy  and  small  doses  of  beech  wood  creo- 
sote is  another  good  remedy.  If  feverish,  give  acetanilide.  Cod  liver  oil, 
raw  eggs,  alcoholic  stimulants  and  nutritious,  easily-digested  food  help  all 
cases  of  distemper.  When  complications  arise  they  must  be  met  with  a 
proper  remedy.  When  sick,  keep  the  dog  warm,  dry  and  comfortable. 

MANGE. — There  are  two  kinds  of  mange  in  the  dog — the  follicular  and 
sarcoptic.  Follicular  mange  is  not  easily  cured  as  the  parasites  are  down 
in  the  hair  follicles  but  this  variety  is  not  nearly  so  contagious  on  this 

236 


JOHN  D.  ROCKEFELLER’S  GREAT  DANE  WATCH  DOG. 
Dr.  Fair  removed  a cancerous  tumor  from  tliis  valuable  dog. 
(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


DR.  FAIR’S  IMPORTED  SCOTCH  C<')LLIE. 

Kept  at  “ Mentor  Stock  Farm.”  Many  iuterestiiig  stories  are  told  showing  the 
great  intelligence  of  the  collie. 

(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


HOUSEHOLD  PETS— DOGS. 


237 


account.  Sarcoptic  mange  is  the  most  common  variety  and  is  very  con- 
tagious. Man  can  contract  this  disease  but  is  in  less  danger  than  other 
animals  and  thin  skinned  dogs  seem  to  be  the  most  easily  diseased. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  symptoms  of  follicular  mange  are  redness  of  the 
« skin  and  shedding  of  the  hair,  but  at  first  there  is  no  irritation  of  the  skin  that 
can  be  seen.  Some  time  later,  and  not  always  very  soon,  little  pustules 
appear  which,  if  squeezed,  exude  a purulent  sort  of  fluid.  If  this  fluid  is 
placed  under  a microscope  a great  many  flat,  fish-like  parasites  with  short  legs 
on  either  side  can  be  seen.  In  the  later  stages  the  dog  is  uneasy  and  scratches 
and  rubs  constantly,  the  body  becoming  covered  with  sores  and  the  animal 
losing  flesh  and  giving  off  a very  offensive  odor.  In  sarcoptic  mange  the  dis- 
ease usually  commences  under  the  arm  or  where  the  skin  is  thin,  causing 
great  itching  and  scratching  which  are  followed  by  sores  that  are  slow  to 
heal.  If  the  dog  is  neglected  and  the  disease  not  checked,  the  sores  soon 
cover  the  whole  body  and  most  of  the  hair  falls  out.  In  many  cases  the  dis- 
ease spreads  rapidly  over  the  whole  body,  causing  great  irritation  which  is 
followed  with  emaciation  and  if  nothing  is  done  to  kill  the  parasites  the  dog 
soon  dies  from  weakness.  It  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  that  both  kinds  of 
mange  may  be  communicated  to  man,  especially  sarcoptic  mange. 

TREATMENT. — First  of  all  the  dog  should  be  clipped  and  thoroughly 
washed  with  soap  and  water  and  dried;  then  apply  equal  parts  storax  and 
raw  linseed  oil ; or  one-half  part  carbonate  potash,  one  part  sulphur  and 
five  parts  lard ; or  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant  and  four  parts  vaseline ; use 
any  of  these  remedies  daily  for  a few  days.  If  the  whole  body  is  dis- 
eased put  medicine  on  only  a part  each  day,  for  fear  of  its  injuring  the  dog. 
Remem.ber  that  carbolic  acid  and  many  other  irritating  drugs  should  never  be 
put  on  dogs. 

RINGWORM. — This  is  a very  common  ailment  in  dogs  and  is  caused 
by  a parasite  that  belongs  to  the  vegetable  kingdom  and  the  disease  is  called 
ringworm  on  account  of  the  parasites  grouping  and  working  in  patches  of 
a somewhat  round  shape.  Ringworm  is  readily  communicated  from  one  ani- 
mal to  another  and  it  is  also  communicated  from  animals  to  man ; however, 
these  parasites  do  not  care  to  reside  on  man  nearly  so  well  as  animals,  and 
I have  known  cases  where  they  seem  to  die  off  in  a month  or  two  without 
much  being  done  to  kill  them. 

SYMPTOMS. — An  eruption  is  noticed  on  one  or  more  parts  of  the  body 
and  is  more  likely  to  be  about  the  head,  neck  and  loins  than  any  other  part 
of  the  body.  The  hair  soon  drops  out  in  circular  sort  of  patches  and  by  using 
a magnifying  glass  the  surface  of  the  skin  will  be  found  rough  and  a fluid 
oozing  out.  In  many  cases  the  disease  is  confined  to  a small  area  and  never 
spreads  much  while  in  others  it  extends  pretty  much  over  the  body. 

TREATMENT. — First  wash  the  parts  with  soap  and  water  and  apply 
either  iodide  ointment  or  tincture  of  iodine  a few  times ; then  apply  one  part 
sulphur  and  six  parts  lard,  or  any  good  home  mange  remedy. 

LICE.— L ice  are  the  result  of  keeping  animals  in  a filthy  condition  and 
not  feeding  them  properly.  Their  presence  is  easily  observed  by  inspection 
which  is  aided  materially  by  the  use  of  a magnifying  glass. 

TREATMENT. — A rough-coated  dog  should  be  clipped,  for  by  doing  so 
much  less  medicine  will  be  required  to  kill  the  lice.  One  of  the  most  satis- 
factory Iic,£  killing  remedies  is  made  by  mixing  five  ounces  of  crushed  staves- 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOxME  STOCK  BOOK. 


acre  seeds  in  a gallon  of  boiling  water  and  allowing  it  to  simmer  an  hour 
or  two  and  then  straining  through  a cheese  cloth  and  filling  to  original  quan- 
tity. Apply  three  times  a week.  Or,  apply  one  part  coal-tar  disinfectant 
and  thirty  parts  water;  or,  apply  one  part  powdered  stavesacre  seeds  and  five 
or  six  parts  lard;  or,  a small  quantity  of  mercurial  ointment  placed  on  the 
body  where  he  cannot  lick  it  off  acts  well. 

FLEAS. — During  the  dry  summer  months  nearly  every  dog  is  troubled 
more  or  less  with  fleas  and  if  kept  on  sandy  soil  or  bedded  with  sawdust 
or  straw  they  are  very  likely  to  have  them.  Fleas  irritate  and  annoy  dogs 
very  much  and  there  is  little  use  of  driving  them  off  the  dog  or  killing  them 
unless  they  are  driven  out  of  the  kennel. 

TREATMENT. — To  kill  fleas  soak  one-fourth  pound  crushed  stavesacre 
seeds  in  a gallon  of  hot  water  for  three  or  four  hours,  strain  and  apply  once 
a day.  Or,  apply  insect  powder.  Apply  cologne  or  a weak  solution  of  coal- 
tar  disinfectant;  also,  dust  on  some  flowers  of  sulphur  along  the  back.  The 
kennel  should  be  disinfected  and  kept  clean. 

WORMS. — Nearl}^  all  dogs  have  a few  worms  and  tapeworm  is  a com- 
mon ailment,  but  they  may  not  have  enough  to  do  any  particular  harm. 
Worms  do  not  always  remain  in  the  bowels  but  find  their  way  into  the 
stomach. 

SYMPTOMS. — There  is  a change  in  disposition,  an  excessive  appetite, 
loss  of  flesh,  itchy  skin,  rough  staring  coat  or  loss  of  hair,  bowel  pain,  in- 
digestion, occasional  vomiting  or  scouring,  fetid  breath  and  a disposition 
to  lick  the  anus  and  drag  the  hind  parts  along  the  ground.  Wormy  dogs 
usually  show  an  irritable  temper  and  frequently  suffer  from  vertigo  or  con- 
vulsions. 

TREATMENT. — For  round  worms  in  dogs,  areca  nut  and  spigelia  are 
reliable  remedies ; or,  giving  fluid  extract  of  spigelia  and  fluid  extract  of  senna 
every  morning  for  three  or  four  days  will  usually  rid  a dog  of  round  worms. 
The  dose  of  powdered  areca  nut  is  about  two  grains  for  each  pound  of  the 
dog’s  v/eight  and  it  is  convenient  to  give  it  in  some  milk.  The  dose  of 
fluid  extact  of  senna  for  a matured  dog  is  from  twenty  drops  to  two  drams, 
according  to  weight,  and  for  young  pups  one  drop  for  each  week  of  age.  This 
medicine  should  be  combined  with  a brisk  cathartic,  such  as  senna  or  castor 
oil.  Santonine  is  another  useful  remedy;  for  pups  give  from  one-fifth  to 
three  grains,  combined  with  a small  dose  of  calomel.  For  matured  dogs  I 
usually  give  from  six  to  twenty-five  grains  at  a dose.  Powdered  kamala  is 
another  useful  remedy  or  the  powdered  male  fern  or  the  oleoresin  of  male  fern 
will  be  effective. 

PNEUMONIA  — LUNG  FEVER  — INFLAMMATION  OF  THE 
LUNGS. — This  disease  is  generally  the  result  of  neglected  cold,  catarrh  or 
chilling  when  in  a heated  state ; or,  it  is  due  to  exposure  or  housing  in  damp, 
badly  ventilated  basements  or  kennels. 

TREATMENT. — Give  the  dog  good  care ; keep  him  in  a well  ventilated 
place  and  reduce  the  fever  by  giving  small  doses  of  aconite,  acetanilide  or 
nitrate  of  potash.  Apply  antiphlogistine  or  mustard  to  sides ; also  give  quinine 
and  other  tonics  and  stimulants.  The  treatment  should  be  much  the  same  as 
in  man  or  the  horse. 

OPHTHALMIA— INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  EYES.— This  disease 
is  the  result  of  a great  many  exciting  causes  and  the  result  of  other  diseases. 
Dust  and  other  irritants  blowing  into  the  eyes  is  the  most  common  cause. 


HOUSEHOLD  PETS— DOGS. 


239 


TREATMENT. — Avoid  keeping  the  dog  in  a place  where  the  light  is 
too  bright.  Apply  equal  parts  of  extract  of  witch  hazel  and  water  or  dis- 
solve boric  acid  in  water — all  the  water  will  take  up — or  dissolve  three  grains 
of  sulphate  of  zinc  and  one  grain  of  atropine  in  one  ounce  of  water.  Eye 
lotions  should  be  applied  three  or  four  times  daily. 

WARTS. — Warts  should  either  be  cut  off  or  burned  with  caustic  such 
as  lunar  caustic,  chromic  acid  or  acetic  acid. 

TUMORS. — Small  tumors  often  appear  in  the  corner  of  the  eye  or  on 
different  parts  of  the  body  and  when  they  do  they  should  be  cut  out  and 
boric  acid  applied  or  any  non-poisonous  home-made  healing  lotion  will  do. 

WOUNDS. — Wounds  on  dogs  should  be  stitched  the  same  as  in  other 
animals,  but  the  healing  remedies  applied  should  be  non-poisonous,  such 
as  peroxide-hydrogen,  boric  acid  or  coal-tar  disinfectant. 

CANKER  OF  THE  EAR. — Canker  is  a diseased  condition  of  the  inner 
surface  of  the  ear. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  dog  shakes  his  head  and  paws  the  ear.  If  but  one 
f'ar  is  affected  the  head  is  carried  to  one  side.  The  inner  surface  of  ear 
iv)oks  red,  is  swollen,  inflamed  and  gives  off  an  offensive  odor. 

TREATMENT. — Discontinue  feeding  meat  and  stimulating  food.  Ap- 
ply one  part  peroxide  of  hydrogen  and  four  parts  of  water  and  ten  minutes 
later  dust  on  boric  acid ; or,  apply  one  part  calomel,  three  parts  oxide  of  zinc 
and  twelve  parts  boric  acid  to  the  sore  parts  once  a da}^ 

COLIC. — Colic  is  usually  the  result  of  exhaustion,  exposure  to  cold 
and  yvet,  eating  a hearty  meal  after  fasting  or  eating  infected  and  unwhole- 
some food. 

TREATMENT. — Give  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  a teaspoonful 
of  whiskey  or  from  five  to  twenty-five  drops  of  laudanum  or  some  pepper- 
mint or  anv  home  colic  remedy. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE  BOWELS.— This  conies  on  from  expo- 
sure of  the  body  to  too  much  cold  when  in  a heated  condition  or  from  eating 
certain  poisons  or  swallowing  sponges,  rags  or  foreign  bodies  that  obstruct 
the  bowels. 

TREATMENT. — Always  try  moving  the  bowels  with  sweet  oil  or  cas- 
tor oil  or  perhaps  linseed  oil ; also  apply  hot  packs,  poultices  or  weak  mustard 
water.  Give  laudanum  to  relieve  the  pain,  also  give  injections  of  soap  and 
water  to  move  the  bowels. 

COUGH. — Dogs  are  subject  to  coughs  which  are  the  result  of  exposure 
to  wet  and  cold  or  of  sleeping  in  damp,  badly  ventilated  basements  or  cellars. 

TREATMENT. — Give  from  three  to  ten  grains  of  iodide  of  potassium 
and  from  three  to  ten  drops  of  laudanum  at  a dose  three  times  a day,  or  give 
any  good  home  cough  remedy. 

PARTURITION — PUPPING. — This  generally  occurs  between  the  sixty- 
first  and  sixty-sixth  days  after  service  and  if  the  bitch  is  not  too  fleshy,  has 
been  exercised  regularly  while  pregnant,  and  the  bowels  are  not  too  costive, 
she  will  whelp  without  assistance.  When  a bitch  is  unable  to  whelp  and  re- 
quires help,  I generally  give  an  anaesthetic,  using  ether  as  it  is  not  dangerous. 
I seldom  give  chloroform  in  such  cases.  Instruments  should  be  used  with 
care.  Many  times  the  fingers  can  be  used  and  of  course  this  is  safer  than 
using  instruments.  Be  sure  to  remove  the  afterbirth  and  wash  out  the  uterus 
with  a weak  antiseptic  or  astringent  for  a few  days. 

HERNIA — RUPTURE. — We  meet  with  umbilical,  abdominal  and  in- 


240 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


guinal  hernia  most  often  in  dogs  and  cats.  The  most  common  causes  are 
accidents  and  injuries.  Nearly  all  cases  require  surgical  treatment.  The  work 
should  be  done  by  a person  who  has  had  experience  and  uses  cleanliness. 
The  operation  is  not  dangerous. 

CASTRATION. — Dogs  are  castrated  to  prevent  them  from  wandering 
away  from  home.  Wash  the  scrotum  with  an  antiseptic  of  some  kind;  give 
them  ether  and  then  make  a bold  incision,  exposing  the  testicle;  then  twist 
the  cord  a few  times,  scraping  cord  through,  or  apply  traction  to  the  cord 
until  it  gives  way.  This  last  method  I do  not  like  so  well.  In  old  dogs  I 
very  often  use  an  emasculator,  clamp  and  iron,  or  apply  an  aseptic  ligature. 
Be  sure  to  use  clean  instruments  and  have  clean  hands. 

SPAYING. — This  is  an  operation  that  is  done  to  prevent  bitches  from 
coming  in  heat  and  to  prevent  breeding.  Ether  is  given,  the  belly  shaved  and 
the  abdomen  opened  in  the  flank  or  center  of  the  belly.  The  ovaries  are 
found  and  twisted  off  and  the  wound  stitched.  The  stitches  should  be  re- 
moved on  the  fourth  day  and  in  a few  days  she  will  be  well.  The  operation 
is  performed  with  less  risk  if  she  is  not  in  heat;  however,  it  can  be  done 
when  in  heat  and  the  bitch  live.  Apply  peroxide  of  hydrogen  to  wound,  also 
use  boric  acid. 

FRACTURES  OR  BROKEN  BONES.— Dogs  are  very  liable  to  meet 
with  fractures  of  the  toes,  legs,  hip  and  back.  These  should  be  treated  the. 
same  as  fracture  in  other  animals.  Give  the  dog  ether  as  an  anaesthetic, 
crowd  the  bones  into  position  and  apply  a plaster  bandage,  starch  bandage, 
or  adhesive  plaster  bandage ; or,  an  ordinary  bandage  will  often  answer  the 
purpose.  A fracture  requires  four  or  five  weeks  to  unite  properly. 

CHOREA. — This  is  a nervous  ailment  which  frequently  follows  canine 
distemper,  other  debilitating  fever  or  injury.  The  symptoms  consist  in  a 
twitching  and  quick  jerking  condition  of  certain  muscles  of  different  parts 
of  the  body.  When  the  disease  becomes  chronic  it  is  painless. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  dog  warm  and  give  him  good  care.  This  is 
about  all  that  can  be  done.  Mild  cases  sometimes  recover;  severe  ones 
never  do. 

WORMS  IN  THE  KIDNEYS.— Small  thread-like  worms  measuring 
from  twelve  to  thirty-six  inches  grow  and  develop  in  the  kidney.  They 
attain  considerable  size,  destroy  the  function  of  the  kidney  and  later  make 
their  way  into  the  abdominal  cavity.  The  only  treatment  that  gives  any 
results  is  ten  or  fifteen  drops  of  turpentine  at  a dose,  daily;  however,  I am 
inclined  to  believe  there  is  no  positive  remedy. 

GONORRHEA. — Dogs  are  seldom  troubled  with  infectious  gonorrhea, 
but  sometimes  have  gleet,  attended  with  a mucous  discharge. 

TREATMENT. — Bathe  the  parts  with  warm  water  twice  a day.  Dis- 
solve one  dram  of  sugar  of  lead  in  a pint  of  water  and  apply  twice  a day,  or 
dissolve  one-fourth  dram  of  permanganate  of  potash  in  a pint  or  two  of  water 
and  apply  this.  There  are  many  other  remedies  that  are  used  in  human  prac- 
tice that  are  equally  as  good  for  an  ailment  of  this  kind.  Give  five  drops 
oil  of  sandal  wood  at  a dose  twice  daily. 

RABIES — HYDROPHOBIA.— Rabies  is  an  infectious  disease  and  can 
be  produced  only  by  inoculation  with  the  specific  virus  which  causes  it; 
however,  an  opposite  opinion  is  held  by  some  people,  believing  that  the  dis- 
ease can  arise  spontaneously.  Its  being  difficult  to  trace  the  origin  of  infection 


X 


i 


ti- 


v='- 


iy  ■/  '>  •'■■  ' 


fr' 


t'K  ■ ■ 


S'  - ; ■ 


k. 

r ■:  • 


- 


' r 


,,:v  4^^i' 


A Corner  in  the  Cat  Hospital.  Feeding  Time  for  the  Pets. 

THE  PET  STOCK  DEPARTMENT  AT  DR.  FAIR’S  VETERINARY  HOSPITAL. 
(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


HOUSEHOLD  PETS— CATS. 


241 


is  what  leads  people  to  hold  the  latter  opinion.  Rabies  has  existed  for  more 
than  two  thousand  years.  It  is  an  incurable  ailment,  but  both  man  and 
animals  can  be  immunized.  The  virus  of  rabies  is  contained  in  the  saliva, 
blood  and  body. 

SYMPTOMS. — The  animal  becomes  restless,  dull  and  watchful  and  with- 
draws from  his  companions,  hiding  in  dark  corners,  below  chairs  and  other 
furniture.  He  becomes  nervous,  lying  down  and  jumping  up  again  in  an 
excited,  unnatural  manner.  He  has  a tendency  to  rove  about  and  if  possible 
will  escape  and  wander  away.  At  first  the  dog’s  power  of  recognizing  people 
is  not  lost ; he  is  inclined  to  lick  things  that  are  cold  and  will  pick  at  bits  of 
wood  and  coal  and  swallow  stones  and  as  the  disease  advances  his  movements 
become  somewhat  unsteady.  Sometimes  he  will  stare  at  an  imaginary  object, 
then  rush  forward  and  bite  anything  that  may  be  in  his  way,  or  even  at  the 
air  as  if  he  were  catching  flies.  The  appetite  is  lost.  The  thirst  is  con- 
siderable but  he  is  unable  to  swallow.  His  bark  changes  to  a howl,  he 
occasionally  vomits,  the  jaws  drops,  saliva  runs  from  the  mouth  and  the 
tongue  swells  and  grows  black.  The  bite  of  a mad  dog  is  less  liable  to  infect 
man  than  other  animals. 

CATS. 

GENERAL  SYMPTOMS  OF  DISEASE  IN  CATS.— Whenever  a cat 
becomes  sick  or  ailing  from  disease  or  injury,  it  usually  loses  its  appetite  and 
hides  out  of  sight  and  the  nose  becomes  hot  and  the  coat  dry.  The  cat  often 
moves  about  as  if  in  pain  and  if  not,  sleeps  almost  continually.  When  they 
have  stomach  trouble  they  are  inclined  to  eat  grass ; this  produces  an  irrita- 
tion of  the  stomach,  resulting  in  either  vomiting  or  purging  or  both.  Grass 
acts  much  the  same  as  Glauber’s  salts  or  castor  oil  given  in  small  doses  to 
children.  Mixing  some  flowers  of  sulphur  or  baking  soda  in  their  drinking 
water  seems  to  help  sick  cats.  Cats  are  often  troubled  with  colds,  coughs, 
sore  throat  and  bronchial  and  lung  diseases.  They  have  liver,  stomach  and 
intestinal  diseases;  fever,  infectious  distemper;  also  glanders,  eczema  and 
local  diseases  of  the  eyes,  teeth  and  claws;  also  parasitic  diseases  such  as 
mange,  fleas  and  worms. 

CATARRH — COLD  IN  THE  HEAD. — This  consists  in  an  inflammation 
of  the  mucous  membrane  lining  the  nose,  throat  and  head.  The  symptoms 
are  sneezing  and  coughing  with  fever  in  most  cases.  The  treatment  consists 
in  good  care  and  giving  home  remedies  such  as  are  used  in  human  practice 
and  for  dogs. 

BRONCHITIS. — Bronchitis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  tubes  that  lead 
to  the  lungs  and  the  treatment  consists  in  keeping  the  cat  out  of  drafts,  dust, 
cold  rain  storms  and  out  of  wet  basements  and  medicating  with  the  remedies 
used  for  children  and  dogs.  Most  cases  need  no  drugs.  When  the  cat  is  sick 
it  hides  away  in  a sheltered  place  and  soon  recovers. 

PNEUMONIA. — Pneumonia  is  attended  with  more  fever  than  bronchitis ; 
however,  in  cats  the  two  ailments  generally  occur  together  as  we  seldom  have 
lung  fever  alone  in  cats.  In  many  cases  parasites  are  lodged  in  the  lung 
tissue. 

TREATMENT. — Give  the  cat  good  care  and  pure  air  to  breathe.  Keep 
it  eating  by  tempting  it  with  different  kinds  of  food.  Apply  poultices,  give 
3—16 


242 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


whiskey  and  small  doses  of  quinine,  also  home  medical  remedies  that  are 
prescribed  for  broncho-pneumonia  in  horses  and  for  man. 

GASTRITIS. — Gastritis  is  an  inflammation  of  the  stomach,  generally 
brought  on  by  feeding  too  often  and  too  much  at  a time,  or  by  feeding  ir- 
ritating food  or  giving  drugs  that  burn ‘the  inner  wall  of  the  stomach;  but 
it  may  be  a secondary  or  constitutional  disease  and  not  the  result  of  gorging 
the  stomach.  The  symptoms  are : vomiting  up  food,  frothy  mucus  and  some- 
times blood. 

TREATMENT. — When  the  cat  is  left  to  follow  his  own  instinct  he  eats 
grass  which  acts  as  an  emetic  or  cathartic  and  if  it  does  not  act  thus,  give 
him  a cathartic  of  Glauber’s  salts  and  if  the  vomiting  continues  give  hot 
black  coffee,  and  if  he  has  much  pain  give  small  doses  of  chloretone  or 
paregoric. 

CONSTIPATION. — This  is  an  ailment  the  cat  is  pretty  free  from  but 
when  it  does  occur  give  castor  oil,  sweet  oil  or  jalap. 

DIARRHEA. — This  is  a very  common  ailment  in  house  cats,  brought 
on  by  eating  out  of  dirty  dishes  and  eating  infected  food.  Feeding  irregularly 
and  too  much  fat  meat  also  bring  on  looseness  of  the  bowels.  Liver  and 
vegetables  when  fed  to  cats  open  their  bowels. 

TREATMENT. — All  the  remedies  that  are  prescribed  for  bowel  ail; 
ments  in  nian  are  suitable  for  cats.  A small  dose  of  sweet  oil  or  castor  oil 
should  first  be  given  to  clear  the  bowels  and  if  the  pain  is  great  give  laudanum. 

YELLOWS—JAUNDICE.  — When  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  eye  is 
yellow  the  liver  is  perhaps  congested  or  the  bile  is  not  passing  out  of  the 
body  by  its  natural  channel.  The  liver  may  contain  parasites  or  may  be  in- 
active or  enlarged.  When  the  bowels  are  costive  give  small  doses  of  calomel 
and  castor  oil  or  Glauber’s  salts  and  regulate  the  cat’s  diet. 

TUBERCULOSIS. — Cats  very  seldom  suffer  from  tuberculosis  and,  in 
fact,  it  is  a very  difficult  task  to  inoculate  the  cat  so  as  to  produce  the  dis- 
ease. I very  often  examine  cats  after  death  to  satisfy  people  who  insist 
that  their  cat  had  consumption  but  generally  find  they  were  mistaken. 

DISTEMPER. — Distemper  is  a contagious  and  infectious  disease  affect- 
ing cats.  Associated  with  this  ailment  various  organs  of  the  body  may  be 
inflamed  and  the  cat  always  has  fever.  The  symptoms  are:  a watery  dis- 
charge from  the  nose  and  eyes,  gradually  growing  thicker ; fever ; some  cough- 
ing and  quick  breathing.  The  throat,  bowels  and  lungs  may  become  affected. 

TREATMENT. — Keep  the  sick  animal  away  from  healthy  cats.  Be  sure 
the  cat  has  fresh  air  but  is  kept  warm  and  in  no  draft.  If  the  bowels  are  con- 
stipated, give  a laxative  but  never  give  a cathartic  for  it  may  produce  death. 
Give  some  baking  soda  in  milk  or  some  hot  black  coffee  and  if  the  cat  grows 
cold  give  whiskey  in  twenty-five-drop  doses  every  three  hours.  When  lung 
or  bowel  complications  set  in  treat  them  as  in  man. 

GLANDERS. — This  is  a constitutional  disease  accompanied  by  the  forma- 
tion of  tubercles  on  the  body  and  in  the  nose  on  the  mucous  membrane. 
These  tubercles  break  and  form  ulcers.  The  lungs  and  liver  are  sometimes 
affected  as  well  as  other  vital  organs  of  the  body.  Lions  take  glanders  from 
eating  horse  meat  cut  from  the  carcass  of  glandered  horses.  This  is  not 
by  any  means  a common  ailment  in  cats  unless  fed  meat  from  glandered 
horses. 

ECZEMA. — This  is  a skin  disease,  due  perhaps  to  errors  in  feeding  and 
care  of  the  skin.  It  consists  of  a hyperemia  of  the  skin  followed  by  an  oozing 


HOUSEHOLD  PETS— CATS. 


243 


through  of  a fluid  which  seems  to  dry,  forming  scales  and  leaving  the  skin 
rough.  The  face,  back  and  legs  are  most  commonly  affected. 

TREATMENT. — Give  three  grains  baking  soda  in  food  three  times  a 
day  and  dissolve  one  ounce  of  baking  soda  in  one  quart  of  water  and  apply 
to  the  sore  parts  three  times  a day,  or  use  a home  eczema  cure  prescribed 
for  man.  Change  the  feed;  give  less  meat,  no  sweet  cakes  or  candy,  no 
butter  or  greasy  gravy  and  keep  the  cat  in  a cool  place. 

CANKER  OF  THE  EAR. — This  is  one  form  of  eczema  and  the  same  line 
of  diet  prescribed  for  eczema  should  be  followed;  also  apply  one  part  per- 
oxide of  hydrogen  and  four  parts  water,  then  apply  boric  acid  a few  minutes 
later.  Do  this  twice  daily.  Give  two-drop  doses  of  FowlePs  solution  twice 
a day.  Also  give  one-grain  doses  of  iodide  of  potassium  daily. 

MILK  FEVER. — Taking  away  all  the  kittens  immediately  after  birth 
very  often  causes  the  udder  to  cake  and  inflame,  which  of  course,  is  followed 
with  fever ; besides,  wounds  on  the  belly  may  also  cause  the  udder  to  inflame. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  one  part  extract  of  phytolacca  and  eight  parts 
vaseline  to  udder  twice  a day  and  give  two  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  phytolacca 
root  at  a dose  three  times  a day,  or  give  two  grains  of  nitrate  of  potash  three 
times  a day. 

FITS — CONVULSIONS. — Fits  and  convulsions  are  generally  due  to 
some  kind  of  digestive  disturbance  or  irritation,  the  ingestion  of  irritating 
food,  overloading  the  stomach  in  hot  weather  and  to  stomach  worms.  It 
is  more  common  in  young  than  old  cats. 

TREATMENT. — Give  a cathartic  of  either  syrup  of  buckthorn  or  castor 
oil  and  wrap  the  cat  in  a hot  blanket  or  drop  it  in  warm  water,  all  but  the 
head.  Give  two  grains  of  bromide  of  potash  four  times  a day. 

EPILEPSY. — Epilepsy  develops  suddenly.  The  cat  falls  down  and  froths 
at  the  mouth.  The  greatest  difference  between  this  ailment  and  convulsions  is 
the  absence  of  delirium.  Do  not  frighten  the  cat.  Give  laudanum  or  chloral 
hydrate  to  quite  the  animal,  also  give  syrup  of  buckthorn  to  move  the  bowels. 
Feed  a good  quality  of  easily  digested  food  and  not  too  much  of  it,  also  ex- 
ercise the  animal. 

FLEAS. — Fleas  do  not  as  a rule  bother  cats  and  if  the  same  flea  gets 
on  a person  it  does  not  remain.  They  are  easily  gotten  rid  of  by  applying 
cologne,  tobacco  snuff,  flowers  of  sulphur  or  Persian  insect  powder.  Apply 
not  only  on  the  cat,  but  also  in  its  basket  or  sleeping  places. 

SARCOPTIC  MANGE. — The  most  common  kind  of  mange  affecting 
cats  is  sarcoptic  mange  and  it  is  due  to  a small  parasite  which  burrows  under 
the  skin  and  multiplies  rapidly,  causing  intense  itching. 

TREATMENT. — One  of  the  most  effectual  and  least  expensive  remedies 
is  made  by  mixing  one-half  a part  of  carbonate  of  potash,  one  part  sulphur 
and  six  parts  fresh  lard.  Apply  it  daily  for  a few  days  and  then  as  often 
as  necessary.  There  are  many  other  remedies  that  will  cure  mange  but 
select  the  least  irritating. 

FOLLICULAR  MANGE. — Follicular  mange  is  a kind  that  is  not  easily 
cured.  It  affects  the  nose,  skin  of  the  chin,  and  claws.  This  insect  is  hard 
to  kill  but  if  the  cat  will  allow  air-tight,  non-irritating  balsams  to  remain 
on  long  enough  to  smother  the  insects,  a cure  will  be  effected.  Light  applica- 
tions of  mercurial  ointment  or  sulphur  ointment  applied  freely  will  help 
effect  a cure. 


244 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


STOMACH  WORMS. — Stomach  worms  are  not  only  found  in  the  stom- 
ach but  also  in  the  intestines  and  are  three  or  four  inches  in  length  and  the 
size  of  a slate  pencil,  the  female  being  the  longest. 

TREATMENT. — Purge  the  cat  with  castor  oil,  then  give  three  grains 
of  santonine;  one  hour  later  give  three  drops  of  turpentine  in  a small  dose 
of  castor  oil. 

TAPEWORM. — The  tapeworm  is  from  four  to  thirty  inches  long  and 
lives  in  the  small  bowel  with  its  head  fastened  to  the  mucous  membrane  of 
the  bowel  while  the  rest  of  the  body  floats  in  the  intestines. 

TREATMENT. — Starve  the  cat  for  thirty  hours,  then  mix  twenty  grains 
of  powdered  areca  nut  or  fifteen  grains  of  powdered  kamala,  or  three  grains 
of  santonine  in  milk,  which  a hungry  cat  will  drink.  Two  hours  later  give 
a large  dose  of  castor  oil  and  you  may  be  able  to  dislodge  the  worm.  Be 
sure  the  head  comes  away  and  it  should  then  be  killed. 

RINGWORM. — This  disease  appears  in  the  form  of  round  bald  patches 
which  soon  get  sore.  It  is  caused  by  a vegetable  parasite. 

TREATMENT. — Apply  some  mercurial  ointment  or  paint  the  patches 
with  tincture  of  iodine  as  soon  as  noticed  and  be  sure  to  keep  the  cat  away 
from  children  for  people  are  very  often  diseased  by  coming  in  contact  with 
cats  that  have  ringworm. 

TRICHINA. — Although  it  is  difficult  to  make  a correct  diagnosis  when 
cats  suffer  from  trichina,  yet  many  of  them  have  it.  I have  known  many 
cats  to  die  from  it  that  were  treated  for  rheumatism. 

EYE  DISEASES. — In  distemper  and  fevers  cats  have  more  or  less  eye 
trouble  and  in  the  treatment  of  these  ailments  good  results  follow  bathing  the 
eyes  with  hot  water.  Keep  the  cat  in  a dark  room  and  feed  cooling,  laxative 
food.  Apply  one  part  extract  witch  hazel  and  three  parts  water;  or  dissolve 
boric  acid  in  water,  all  the  water  will  take  up;  or  apply  calomel  to  clear  the 
eye  and  give  small  doses  of  calomel  or  iodide  of  potassium. 

THE  TEETH. — Frequently  the  young  kitten  has  26  teeth  which  are  re- 
placed by  30  permanent  teeth  when  the  cat  is  about  six  months  old.  The 
growing  cat  has  trouble  teething  and  may  not  do  well.  Old  cats  may  have 
diseased  teeth  that  should  be  extracted  and  the  tartar  should  be  broken  off 
the  teeth  when  it  affects  the  gums.  When  the  mouth  is  sore  use  mouth  washes 
that  are  used  for  people. 

THE  CLAWS. — The  claws  often  require  cutting  and,  if  trimmed,  the 
house  cat  will  prove  much  less  destructive  than  with  sharp  nails.  Nails  often 
break  and  when  they  do  they  should  be  trimmed  smooth. 

POISONING. — It  is  not  uncommon  for  the  house  cat  or  even  the  farm 
cat  to  get  hold  of  rat  poison  which  is  generally  composed  of  arsenic ; or, 
some  malicious  person  may  give  your  cat  strychnine.  If  poisoned  with 
arsenic,  give  mustard  and  water  or  Glauber’s  salts  to  cause  vomiting  and  if 
strychnine  caused  the  poisoning  give  twenty  grains  of  chloral  hydrate  and 
repeat  the  dose  if  necessary  to  control  the  spasms. 

GIVING  A CAT  MEDICINES. — If  possible  give  it  in  food;  or,  wrap 
him  in  a shawl  and  pour  it  down  but  avoid  giving  it  in  large  quantities. 

CASTRATING  CATS. — Wrap  the  cat  in  a rubber  cloth  or  shawl  and 
leave  the  hind  quarters  out;  clean  the  scrotum  first;  then  open  and  remove 
the  testicle  by  cutting  off  the  cord  or  twisting  it  off,  which  stops  bleeding. 
No  after  care  is  required  except  to  keep  the  cat  clean  and  warm. 


HOUSEHOLD  PETS— CATS. 


245 


SPAYING. — This  is  done  to  prevent  females  from  breeding.  I operate 
on  one  hundred  or  more  every  year  by  first  giving  the  cat  a small  dose 
of  morphine,  hypodermically,  then  giving  ether.  Shave  the  abdomen  and 
wash  it,  cut  into  the  abdomen,  remove  ovaries,  stitch  wound,  then  keep 
cat  quiet.  Remove  the  stitches  on  the  fourth  day  and  the  wound  is  gen- 
erally healed  in  a week  or  less.  Never  give  a cat  chloroform  unless  you  want 
to  kill  it.  It  is  not.alway  necessary  to  give  morphine  before  giving  ether 
but  I very  often  do  give  it  to  old  cats  and  dogs. 


USEFUL  STABLE  DRUGS. 

Their  Uses  and  Doses. 


Acetanilide. — Used  in  febrile  diseases.  Doses:  Horses,  1 to  3 drams;  cattle 
S to  4 drams ; sheep,  % dram.  Repeat  every  few  hours. 

Acetic  Acid. — Used  to  remove  warts  and  other  kinds  of  growths. 

Aconite. — Used  to  reduce  fever.  Doses:  Horses,  30  to  50  drops  or 
more ; cattle,  1 to  2 drams ; sheep  and  pigs,  10  to  20  drops.  Tincture  of  aconite 
is  now  made  weaker  than  formerly. 

Alcohol. — Alcohol  is  perhaps  the  most  useful  of  all  drugs  in  the  treatment 
of  live  stock.  It  acts  as  a cerebral  excitant,  is  a stimulant  and  increases  func- 
tional activity  of  all  organs.  Doses:  From  one  to  three  ounces  and  it  acts 

best  when  given  with  ether,  digitalis  or  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia. 

Aloes. — Aloes  is  the  common  cathartic  for  horses  and  mules.  Barbadoes 
aloes  is  the  most  reliable.  The  dose  for  horses  is  from  3 drams  to  10  drams, 
given  in  combination  with  calomel  and  ginger  in  ball  form  or  dissolved  in 
water  and  given  as  a drench. 

Alum. — Alum  is  quite  a useful  drug  in  veterinary  practice,  being  useful 
in  healing  lotions  and  drying  powders.  Doses:  Horses,  1 to  2 drams; 
cattle,  2 to  4 drams ; sheep  and  pigs,  10  to  35  grains.  Dried  alum,  commonly 
known  as  burnt  alum,  is  deprived  of  its  water  and  acts  more  like  a caustic. 
When  applied  to  wounds  it  acts  as  a powerful  drying  drug. 

Areca  Nut. — Areca  nut  is  a vermicide,  especially  for  dogs.  Doses:  3 
to  10  grains  for  small  dogs  and  from  20  grains  to  2 drams  or  even  more  for 
large  ones;  or,  give  1 to  2 grains  for  each  pound  the  dog  weighs. 

Ammonia  (Aqua  Ammonia). — Doses:  Horses,  1 to  2 drams;  cattle,  2 to 
4 drams;  sheep  and  pigs,  % to  1 dram.  Aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia — Doses; 
Horses,  1 to  1%  ounces;  cattle,  1 to  2%  ounces;  sheep  and  pigs,  1 to  2 drams; 
dogs,  5 to  40  drops.  Carbonate  of  Ammonia — Doses : Horses,  1 to  2 drams ; 
cattle,  1 to  4 drams ; sheep  and  hogs,  10  to  35  grains ; dogs,  1 to  6 grains. 

Arnica. — Arnica  tincture  is  most  used.  Doses : Horses,  1 to  4 drams ; , 
cattle,  % ounce  to  2 ounces ; dogs,  5 to  20  drops.  It  is  prescribed  for  bruises 
and  sprains. 

Arsenic. — Doses : 1 to  6 grains  for  horses ; 3 to  9 grains  for  cattle ; 1 to 
2 grains  for  sheep  and  hogs;  1/50  to  1/8  of  a grain  for  dogs.  Arsenic  should 
be  well  diluted  when  given  to  animals.  Fowler’s  solution  is  a convenient  prep- 
aration of  arsenic  to  keep  on  hand.  Doses : Horses,  1 dram  to  1 ounce ; cattle, 

2 drams  to  1%  ounces;  sheep  and  pigs,  10  to  40  drops;  dogs,  1 to  8 drops. 
Each  ounce  contains  between  four  and  five  grains  of  arsenic. 

Belladonna. — Fluid  extract  of  belladonna  root  is  the  preparation  gener- 
ally used.  Doses : Horses,  to  1 dram ; cattle,  1 to  2 drams ; sheep  15  to  30 
drops;  pigs,  3 to  10  drops;  dogs,  % to  3 drops. 

246 


a** 


USEFUL  STABLE  DRUGS. 


247 


Buchu. — The  dose  of  powdered  leaves  and  fluid  extract  is  about  the  same. 
Doses : Horses,  % to  1%  ounces ; cattle,  1 to  2 ounces ; sheep  and  hogs,  % to 
1Y2  drams;  dogs,  10  to  50  drops. 

Borax. — Borax  is  used  as  an  antiseptic,  astringent  and  parasite  killer, 
mostly  for  mouth  or  skin  ailments.  Dissolve  one  ounce  or  more  in  a quart  of 
water  and  apply  two  or  three  times  a day. 

Boric  Acid. — Dose  for  horses  and  cattle  from  1 to  4 drams ; sheep  and 
hogs,  % dram ; dogs,  2 to  15  grains.  This  also  makes  an  excellent  dressing 
for  wounds  and  for  eye  ailments. 

Bismuth. — Bismuth  is  used  to  allay  irritation  in  dyspepsia,  to  arrest 
vomiting  and  to  correct  catarrhal  ailments  of  the  bowels.  It  is  also  used 
extensively  to  correct  itching  skin  diseases  in  dogs  and  is  usually  combined 
with  wool-fat.  Doses:  Horses,  1 to  4 drams;  cattle,  2 to  6 drams;  sheep 
and  hogs,  % dram ; dogs,  3 to  25  grains. 

Bromide  of  Potash. — Doses  : Horses,  from  % to  2 ounces ; sheep  and  pigs, 
1 to  3 drams ; dogs,  5 to  50  grains.  It  should  always  be  dissolved  in  warm 
water  when  giving  it. 

Black  Haw. — This  is  given  to  prevent  abortion  and  to  stimulate  the  urin- 
ary and  generative  organs.  Dose  of  fluid  extract  for  mares  is  1 to  3 ounces  ; 
cows,  2 to  4 ounces ; sheep  and  hogs,  a teaspoonful ; bitches,  fifteen  drops  to 
1%  drams.  Mares  and  cows  that  abort  annually  should  be  treated  with  small 
doses  two  or  three  times  a day,  but  in  acute  cases  give  a large  dose  and  it  will 
often  prevent  a miscarriage. 

Calomel. — Doses : Horses,  % to  1 dram ; cattle,  % dram  to  2 drams ; sheep 
and  hogs,  3 to  15  grains.  As  a purgative  it  should  be  given  with  cooking 
soda.  It  is  a specific  for  thrush  and  dries  up  wounds.  It  is  also  used  to  clear 
opacity  of  the  eye. 

Copperas. — Copperas  or  Sulphate  of  Iron  is  one  of  the  least  expensive  and 
most  useful  preparations  of  iron,  although  there  are  many.  Doses : Horses, 
V2  to  2Y2  drams ; cattle,  2 to  3 drams ; sheep  and  hogs,  10  to  30  grains.  It  acts 
as  a blood  tonic,  astringent  and  disinfectant. 

Cannabis  Indica. — The  fluid  extract  of  Indian  cannabis  is  the  preparation 
mostly  used  in  veterinary  practice  and  is  given  to  quiet  the  nervous  system 
and  relieve  pain.  Doses:  Horses  2 to  6 drams;  cattle,  3 to  10  drams;  sheep 
and  hogs,  10  to  30  drops ; dogs,  1 to  12  drops. 

Camphor. — Dose  of  gum  camphor  for  horse,  1 to  2 drams ; cattle  2 to  4 
drams ; sheep  and  pigs,  10  to  40  grains ; dogs,  1 to  8 grains.  Camphor  is 
soluble  in  ether,  alcohol,  chloroform  and  milk,  but  requires  about  seven  hun- 
dred parts  water  to  dissolve  it  and  when  powdering  gum  camphor  add  a few 
drops  of  alcohol.  Spirits  of  camphor  contains  ten  per  cent,  camphor  gum 
and  ninety  per  cent,  alcohol.  Camphor  is  given  and  applied  to  allay  pain. 

Cantharides — Spanish  Fly. — When  given  in  small  doses  it  stimulates  both 
the  genito-urinary  tract  and  the  kidneys  to  action ; when  applied  exter- 
nally it  blisters.  The  dose  for  horses  and  cattle  is  5 to  35  grains ; sheep  and 
hogs,  3 to  10  grains ; dogs,  % to  2 grains.  One  part  of  powdered  cantharides 
to  4,  6 or  8 parts  lard  makes  an  active  yet  inexpensive  blister. 

Caraway  Seed. — The  dose  for  a horse  is  1 ounce ; ox,  from  1 to  2 ounces ; 
.sheep  and  pigs,  2 drams.  Its  action  is  to  improve  the  condition  of  the 
stomach. 

Chloral  Hydrate. — The  dose  for  a horse  is  from  % to  IV2  ounces,  accord- 


248 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


ing  to  the  effect  you  desire  to  produce ; cattle,  % to  2 ounces ; sheep  and  pigs, 
V2  to  1 dram ; dogs,  2 to  20  grains.  Chloral  should  always  be  well  diluted 
with  water  when  given  and  a solution  of  it  should  not  be  left  standing  long 
for  it  changes  into  chloroform.  It  is  generally  given  to  relieve  pain  or  quiet 
an  animal  during  a surgical  operation. 

Colodium  Flexible. — This  is  applied  to  wounds  for  the  purpose  of  forming 
an  air-tight  dressing  and  also  for  holding  the  edges  of  small  wounds  in  a fixed 
position  until  they  heal.  It  is  also  used  to  hold  absorbent  cotton  or  oakum 
on  a raw  sore. 

Corrosive  Sublimate. — It  is  used  principally  externally  in  the  treatment 
of  wounds  or  as  an  external  application  to  rid  the  skin  of  parasitic  life.  It 
is  generally  used  in  the  strength  of  1 to  500,  1 to  1000  or  1 to  2000  but  when 
used  as  an  uterine  injection,  1 to  5000  or  even  1 to  8000  parts  water  is 
about  right.  Fifteen  grains  dissolved  in  a pint  of  water  makes  a 1 to  500 
solution. 

Digitalis. — The  fluid  extract  is  the  most  convenient  preparation  to  keep 
on  hand.  Doses : Horses,  % to  1 dram ; cattle,  % to  2 drams ; sheep  and 
hogs,  5 to  20  drops.  Digitalis  stimulates  the  heart  and  is  used  in  dropsical 
ailments  mixed  with  acetate  of  potash  and  saltpeter. 

Epsom  Salts — (Sulphate  of  Magnesia). — This  is  the  common  cathartic 
for  cattle  and  when  a laxative  effect  is  desired  give  from  4 to  6 ounces  daily, 
but  when  a brisk  purgative  effect  is  desired  give  from  1%  to  2 lbs.  The  dose 
for  horses  is  about  two-thirds  as  much  as  for  cattle ; sheep  and  hogs,  4 to  6 
ounces.  A cathartic  effect  can  generally  be  obtained  in  from  twelve  to  twenty 
hours. 

Ergot.' — The  fluid  extract  of  ergot  is  usually  given  and  its  medical  uses 
are  to  assist  in  parturition  and  to  prevent  uterine  hemorrhage  as  well  as  to 
prevent  hemorrhage  during  and  after  operations.  Dose  for  horse  or  cow, 
Vo  to  3 ounces ; sheep  and  swine,  1 to  3 drams ; dogs,  I/4  to  1 dram.  The  dose 
should  be  repeated  every  30  or  40  minutes  until  the  desired  effect  is  produced. 
Ergot  loses  its  strength  with  age. 

Ether — (Sulphuric  Ether) — Ether  is  a safe  anaesthetic  for  it  never  par- 
alyzes a healthy  heart.  Doses:  Horses,  1 to  2 ounces;  cattle,  IV2  to  3 ounces. 
By  adding  an  equal  quantity  of  alcohol  and  ten  times  as  much  cold  water  it 
makes  a good  stimulant. 

Formalin  or  Formaldehyde. — This  is  the  most  powerful  antiseptic,  dis- 
infectant and  deodorant  and  when  applied  to  wounds  should  be  used  in  the 
form  of  a one-quarter  to  three-quarter  of  one  per  cent,  solution  but  when  used 
to  cleanse  hands  and  instruments  a one-half  to  a two  per  cent,  solution  is  used. 
When  destroying  the  disagreeable  smell  of  fecal  matter,  a one  per  cent,  solu- 
tion is  sufficient,  but  when  disinfecting  a stable  by  spraying,  a twenty  per 
cent,  solution  sprayed  into  the  air  is  not  at  all  dangerous.  It  is  sometimes 
given  to  correct  bowel  ailments. 

Gentian. — Gentian  is  a bitter  tonic  and  one  of  the  most  useful  drugs  for 
use  on  the  farm.  Doses : Horses,  3 or  4 drams ; ox,  1 to  ^2  ounces ; sheep  and 
swine,  % dram  ; dogs,  2 grains. 

Ginger. — Ginger  acts  as  a stimulant  and  tones  the  stomach.  Doses: 
Horse,  about  1 ounce;  ox,  2 ounces;  sheep  and  swine,  2 drams.  Ginger  is 
fed  to  live  stock  in  combination  with  other  drugs  producing  a beneficial 
effect. 


USEFUL  STABLE  DRUGS. 


249 


Glauber’s  Salts — (Sulphate  Soda). — The  dose  for  a horse  when  a purga- 
tive effect  is  desired  is  from  12  to  24  ounces,  but  seldom  give  less  than  20 
ounces;  cattle,  1 to  2 pounds;  sheep  and  hogs,  2 to  4 ounces.  When  a laxa- 
tive effect  is  desired  give  about  one-sixth  of  the  above  dose  daily.  Ginger 
or  red  pepper  should  be  given  with  salts  to  prevent  griping. 

Iodine. — The  dose  of  resublimed  iodine  for  horses  is  from  15  to  30  grains ; 
cattle,  20  to  40  grains ; sheep,  10  to  35  grains ; pigs,  5 to  25  grains ; dogs,  one- 
sixth  to  one  grain.  Iodine,  when  given  inwardly,  acts  as  a blood  purifier  and 
absorbent.  When  applied  externally  it  has  a tendency  to  reduce  bunches. 
There  are  many  preparations  of  iodine  and  nearly  all  of  them  are  useful  in 
veterinary  practice. 

Lime. — Lime  is  often  used  in  cases  of  diarrhea,  and  is  combined  with 
opium  and  tannic  acid.  The  dose  for  horses  is  from  2 drams  to  1%  ounces; 
cattle,  Y2  ounce  to  2 ounces ; sheep  and  pigs,  from  20  to  40  grains  or  more ; 
dogs,  2 to  25  grains.  The  dose  of  lime  water  for  horses  is  from  4 ounces  to 
16  ounces ; cattle,  one-third  more ; sheep  and  hogs,  2 to  3 ounces ; dogs,  1 
to  6 drams.  The  chloride  of  lime  is  used  as  a deodorizer  and  a disinfectant 
and  is  very  useful  in  destroying  foul  odors  about  the  stable  where  there  may 
be  diseased  or  decomposing  dead  animals. 

Lobelia. — The  dose  of  fluid  extract  of  lobelia  for  a horse  is  from  dram 
to  2 drams ; ox,  from  1 to  3 drams ; sheep  and  swine,  from  5 to  15  grains. 
Lobelia  is  given  to  relieve  air  passage  troubles  and  it  very  often  produces 
good  results. 

Mustard  (Sinapis). — Mustard  is  useful  as  a counter-irritant  in  sore-throat, 
bronchitis,  pneumonia  and  pleurisy;  also,  the  volatile  oil  obtained  from  black 
mustard  is  a blister  and  in  combination  with  water  acts  quickly. 

Nux  Vomica. — Nux  Vomica  is  a tonic  and  nerve  stimulant.  ' Dose: 
Horses,  1 dram;  ox,  2 drams;  sheep  and  hogs,  5 to  15  grains;  dogs,  to  2 
grains. 

Opium. — There  are  many  preparations  of  opium  and  the  drug  is  given  in 
conjunction  with  other  drugs  with  good  results.  Tincture  of  opium  (lauda- 
num) is  commonly  used  by  horsemen.  Doses : Horses,  % to  2 ounces ; cattle, 
1 to  3 ounces ; sheep  and  hogs,  1 to  3 drams ; dogs,  1 to  35  drops.  Camphorated 
tincture  of  opium  (paregoric)  is  very  often  used  in  dog  practice,  the  dose 
being  from  2 to  15  drops  for  young  dogs  and  from  1 to  3 drams  for  old  dogs. 
Morphine  and  codeine  are  also  preparations  of  opium,  but  not  used  so  exten- 
sively on  the  stock  farm. 

Poke — (Phytolacca). — The  dose  of  fluid  extract  of  phytolacca  root  (poke 
root)  for  a horse  is  from  2 to  6 drams ; cows,  V2  to  2 ounces ; sheep,  15  drops 
to  11/2  drams;  pigs,  10  drops  to  1 dram.  The  principal  use  of  this  drug  is 
in  marnmitis  (garget)  to  check  the  inflammation  of  the  bag  and  prevent  the 
formation  of  pus.  Apply  the  extract  locally  in  the  proportion  of  one  part  to 
six  or  eight  parts  vaseline  or  sweet  oil. 

Resin. — Resin  acts  on  the  kidneys  of  all  kinds  of  live  stock.  Dose : Horse, 

4 to  6 drams ; ox,  1/2  to  1 ounce ; sheep,  2 to  3 drams ; hogs,  1 to  2 drams ; do^s,’ 

5 to  20  grains. 

Saltpeter— (Nitrate  of  Potash).— Large  doses  generally  irritate  the  stom- 
ach, bowels  and  kidneys,  but  moderate  doses  purify  the  blood,  reduce  fever 
and  act  on  the  kidneys.  Doses : Horses,  2 to  4 drams ; cattle,  3 to  6 drams ; 
sheep  and  hogs,  10  to  25  grains;  dogs,  5 to  20  grains. 


250 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Soda. — There  are  many  different  preparations  of  soda,  but  perhaps  the 
one  mostly  used  is  bicarbonate  of  soda  (baking  soda).  This  is  a very  useful 
farm  drug  for  it  is  both  given  inwardly  and  applied  locally.  Doses : Horses, 
2 drams  to  IV2  ounces ; cattle,  % ounce  to  3 ounces ; sheep  and  hogs,  % dram 
to  1 dram.  It  is  given  for  stomach  and  bowel  ailments  and,  dissolved  in 
water,  to  relieve  itching  skin  troubles — one  ounce  to  a quart  of  water  makes 
a useful  skin  lotion.  It  is  also  used  to  correct  leucorrhea. 

Sugar  of  Lead — (Acetate  of  Lead). — This  is  perhaps  the  most  useful 
preparation  of  lead  to  keep  on  the  farm.  It  is  given  inwardly  to  check  hemor- 
rhages from  the  stomach  and  lungs  and  for  diabetes  and  diarrhea.  It  is  also 
useful  as  a wound  dressing  with  sulphate  of  zinc.  Doses : Horses  and  cattle, 
% to  1 dram ; sheep  and  pigs,  5 to  15  grains ; dogs,  ^ to  3 grains.  Dissolve 
one  and  one-quarter  ounces  of  sugar  of  lead  and  one  ounce  of  sulphate  of  zinc 
in  a quart  of  water  and  apply  to  sore  back  and  shoulders  four  or  five  times  a 
day  and  it  will  help  them. 

Sulphate  of  Zinc. — There  are  many  preparations  of  zinc;  the  sulphate  is 
mostly  used  externally  in  healing  lotions  or  eye  washes.  Dissolving  one 
ounce  in  a quart  of  water  and  adding  the  same  quantity  of  acetate  of  lead 
makes  a nice  wound  dressing  and  is  also  useful  in  the  treatment  of  cracked 
heels  and  sore  shoulders.  The  oxide  of  zinc  is  used  as  a healing  powder  and 
is  often  mixed  with  vaseline  to  make  a healing  ointment. 

Sweet  Spirits  of  Nitre. — Dose  for  a horse,  1 to  2 ounces ; ox,  2 to  4 ounces ; 
sheep,  2 to  4 drams ; dog,  V2  to  2 drams.  It  is  given  as  a stimulant  and  has 
a direct  action  upon  the  kidneys. 

Tannin — (Tannic  Acid). — Dose  for  horses,  % to  3 drams;  cattle  1 to  4 
drams ; sheep  and  pigs,  % to  2 drams.  It  is  also  used  in  ointment  form,  one 
part  tannic  acid  to  four  parts  vaseline  or  benzoinated  lard  or  glycerine.  It 
is  given  as  an  astringent  in  bowel  ailments  and  very  often  used  in  solution 
to  toughen  tender  shoulders. 

Turpentine  (Oil  of  Turpentine). — Turpentine  is  a vermicide  and  stimu- 
lant, also  a counter-irritant  when  applied  externally.  Dose  for  horses  when 
a stimulant  and  kidney  effect  is  desired,  2 to  4 drams  every  five  or  six  hours ; 
cattle,  3 to  6 drams.  When  given  to  kill  worms  from  1 to  4 ounces  can  be 
given  horses  and  cattle,  but  it  should  be  mixed  with  ten  times  its  bulk  of 
cotton  seed  oil,  linseed  oil  or  milk.  Whenever  turpentine  is  given  as  a drench 
it  is  done  with  some  risk. 

Vinegar — (Acetic  Acid). — Instead  of  acetic  acid  vinegar  is  often  used 
in  removing  warts  and  other  dry  excrescences. 


FIFTY  MODERN  PRESCRIPTIONS  IN  COMMON 
USE  BY  THE  VETERINARY  PROFESSION. 

(In  bad  cases  where  other  remedies  fail,  try  these.) 


WHITE  LINIMENT. 


Turpentine  2 ounces. 

Aqua  Ammonia 2 ounces. 

Olive  or  Raw  Linseed  Oil  3 ounces. 


This  is  a very  useful  liniment  for  both  the  home  and  stable,  but  if  a milder  effect 
is  desired  add  more  oil.  It  should  be  applied  once  or  twice  daily. 

MILD  STABLE  LINIMENT. 


Turpentine  ..^ 2 ounces. 

Aqua  Ammonia  2 ounces. 

Soap  Liniment  6 ounces. 


This  liniment  acts  mildly  and  is  useful  for  sprains  and  bruises,  especially  when 
occurring  in  young  animals.  Apply  to  injured  or  sore  parts  twice  daily. 

COUGH  MIXTURE. 


Fluid  Extract  of  Belladonna 2 ounces. 

Iodide  of  Potassiurn  1%  ounces. 

Muriate  of  Ammonia  3 ounces. 

Water 1 quart. 


Give  three  ounces  at  a dose  three  or  four  times  a day. 

FOR  KILLING  LICE. 


Boil  five  ounces  of  crushed  stavesacre  seeds  in  a gallon  of  water  gently  for 
an  hour,  then  fill  to  the  original  gallon;  apply  daily;  will  kill  all  kinds  of  lice 
on  live  stock. 


HOOF  OINTMENT. 


Crude  Petroleum  V2  pint. 

Neat’s-foot  Oil  1 pint. 

Raw  Linseed  Oil 1 pint. 

Oil  of  tar 14  pint. 


Apply  to  hoofs  once  a day  when  needed. 

FOR  STOPPING  BLEEDING. 

Apply  either  hot  or  cold  water  constantly,  or  apply  Adrenalin,  or  Mon- 
selTs  Solution  of  Iron.  When  applying  Adrenalin  Chloride  add  1,000  parts 
water.  Applied  direct  to  the  wound  it  will  generally  stop  bleeding  quickly,  but 
when  a large  blood  vessel  has  been  opened  it  should  be  tied.  Furthermore, 
don’t  rely  on  styptics  always  when  the  animal  is  under  an  anaesthetic.  Sugar 
of  Lead  or  Alum  dissolved  in  water  acts  nicely. 

HEALING  LOTION. 


Sugar  of  Lead 
Sulphate  Zinc 
Carbolic  Acid 
Water  


% pound. 
3 ounces. 
3 ounces. 
1 gallon. 


261 


252  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 

This  makes  an  excellent  healing  lotion  and  is  not  very  expensive.  It  should  be 
applied  two  or  three  times  a day. 

HEALING  LOTION. 

Corrosive  Sublimate  20  grains. 

Water  1 quart. 

This  makes  an  inexpensive  remedy  for  healing  wounds.  Should  be  applied  two 
or  three  times  a day. 

EYE  LOTION. 

Boric  Acid  10  grains. 

Borate  of  Soda 8 grains. 

Water  1 ounce. 

This  makes  an  excellent  eye  lotion  and  it  should  be  applied  two  or  three  times 

a day. 

EYE  LOTION. 

Fluid  Extract  of  Belladonna  % ounce. 

Water  1 pint. 

This  makes  an  excellent  eye  wash  in  cases  of  simple  ophthalmia  and  should  be 
applied  three  or  four  times  daily. 

EYE  LOTION. 

Sulphate  of  Zinc  1 dram. 

Fluid  Extract  of  Belladonna 1 ounce. 

Water  1 pint. 

This  makes  a useful  eye  wash  and  should  be  applied  two  or  three  times  a day. 

COUGH  MIXTURE. 

Fluid  Extract  of  Belladonna... 1 ounce. 

Fluid  Extract  Lobelia  4 ounces. 

Dilute  Hydrocyanic  Acid 1 ounce. 

Sweet  Oil  1 quart. 

Give  one  ounce  at  a dose  three  or  four  times  a day. 

HOOF  OINTMENT. 

Lamp  Black  V2  ounce. 

Lanolin  (Wool  Fat) .*•••, ^ pound. 

Apply  to  hoofs  once  a day  and  it  will  soften  them  and  start  them  growing. 

CATHARTIC  FOR  HORSES. 

Barbadoes  Aloes  . . .‘ 7 drams. 

Calomel  20  grains. 

Ginger 3 drams. 

Make  into  a bolus  and  give  at  one  dose. 

CATHARTIC  FOR  CATTLE. 

Epsom  Salts 1 to  2 pounds. 

Ginger  (Tincture)  1V2  ounces. 

Salt  % pound. 

Water  3 pints. 

For  a brisk  cathartic  effect  add  forty  drops  Croton  Oil. 

CANKER  OF  EAR. 

Cooking  Soda  2 drams. 

Liquor  Sub-acetate  Lead 1 ounce. 

Extract  Opium  1 dram. 

Glycerine 4 drams. 

Water  3 ounces. 

Pour  a teaspoonful  at  a time  into  ear  once  a day. 

FOR  GOITRE. 

Give  one-dram  doses  Desiccated  Thyroids  to  horses  or  from  two  to  five 
grains  to  dogs  once  or  twice  a day  to  reduce  goitre.  Or,  give  thirty  grains  Re- 
sublimed Iodine  at  a dose  to  horses  or  % grain  at  a dose  daily  to  medium  sized 
dogs. 

FOR  CRACKED  TEATS  IN  COWS. 

Apply  Glycerine  of  Tannin  two  or  three  times  a day. 


FIFTY  MODERN  PRESCRIPTIONS. 


^o3 


FOR  DESTROYING  PIN  WORMS. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  Tannin  in  one  quart  of  water,  or  dissolve  one  and  one- 
quarter  ounces  of  Copperas  in  a gallon  of  water,  or  make  Quassia  Tea,  or 
wash  out  bowel  with  one  part  Coal-Tar  Disinfectant  and  fifty  parts  water 
every  few  days. 

HEALING  LOTION. 

Carbolic  Acid 1 ounce. 

Water  1 quart. 

This  makes  a useful  healing  lotion  for  all  kinds  of  wounds  and  should  be  applied 
two  or  three  times  a day. 

HEALING  LOTION. 

Permanganate  Potash  2 drams. 

Water  1 quart. 

This  lotion  deodorizes  and  disinfects  foul  smelling  wounds  and  should  be  applied 
two  or  three  times  a day.  As  an  eye  wash,  use  about  one  part  to  ten  or  fifteen  hun- 
dred parts  water;  as  a uterine  injection,  one  part  to  two  or  three  thousand  parts  water. 


ZINC  OINTMENT. 

Oxide  of  Zinc _ 1^/4  ounces. 

Benzoated  Lard  .’ 4 ounces. 

This  makes  a fairly  good  healing  ointment  for  dry  sores. 

HEALING  SALVE. 

Carbolic  Acid 1 part. 

Vaseline  8 parts. 

This  makes  a nice  salve  for  healing  dry  surface  sores  and  it  should  be  applied 
twice  a day. 

EYE  LOTION. 

Eserine 4 grains. 

Water  ^ 1 ounce. 

This  eye  lotion  relieves  congestion  and  inflammation  of  the  eye  and  should  be 
applied  two  or  three  times  a day. 

FOR  CATARRHAL  FEVER. 

Powdered  Opium  1 ounce. 

Pulverized  Camphor 1 ounce. 

Sulphate  of  Quinine  1 ounce. 

Powdered  Gentian  3 ounces. 

Muriate  of  Ammonia  4 ounces. 

Make  into  twenty  powders  and  give  one  at  a dose  in  feed  or  with  a spoon  three 
or  four  times  a day. 

COLIC  MIXTURE. 

Aromatic  Spirits  of  Ammonia  % ounce. 

Fluid  Extract  Belladonna  1 dram. 

Sulphuric  Ether  % ounce. 

Fluid  Extract  Ginger  2 drams. 

Hvpo-sulphite  of  Soda : 1 ounce. 

Water  1 pint. 

This  is  a good  colic  remedy  and  should  be  given  at  one  dose  and  repeated  in 
forty  or  fifty  minutes  if  a recovery  has  not  taken  place. 

COOLING  ASTRINGENT  LOTION. 

Sulphate  Zinc  1%  ounces. 

Sugar  of  Lead  lV2  ounces. 

Water  1 quart. 

Remedy  for  sore  necks,  shoulders  and  backs  and  for  wounds  and  bruises. 

COLIC  MIXTURE.  (FLATULENT.) 

Tincture  Ginger  1 ounce. 

Fluid  Extract  Hyocyamus  % ounce. 

Aromatic  Spirits  Ammonia  1 ounce. 

Salicylic  Acid  2 drams. 

Water  1 pint. 


254  THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 

Give  at  one  close  and  repeat  in  forty  or  fifty  minutes  if  necessary.  If  this  remedy 
seems  to  fail  in  relieving  bloat  give  one  grain  Eserine  hypodermically  and  repeat  in 
one  hour  if  necessary. 

BLISTER. 

Biniodide  Mercury 1 dram. 

Lard  or  Lanolin 1 ounce. 

BLISTER. 

Powdered  Cantharides  1%  drams. 

Lard  or  Lanolin 1 ounce. 

BLISTER  AND  ABSORBENT. 

Powdered  Cantharides  2 drams. 

Red  Iodide  Mercury 1 dram. 

Lard  or  Lanolin  3 ounces. 

BLISTER. 

Volatile  Oil  of  Mustard 2 drams. 

Aqua  Ammonia ounces. 

Olive  Oil  8 ounces. 

Before  blistering  clip  off  hair  and  rub  the  ointment  or  liniment  in  thoroughly. 
Avoid  letting  the  animal  lick  or  bite  the  blistered  parts  for  twenty-four  or  forty-eight 
hours  after  it  is  put  on. 

SOOTHING  LOTION. 

Fluid  Extract  of  Witch-hazel 6 parts. 

Fluid  Extract  Opium  1 part. 

Tincture  Arnica  2 parts. 

Tincture  Aconite  1 part. 

Remedy  for  sprains  and  bruises. 

COLDS  AND  CATARRHAL  AFFECTIONS. 

Sulphate  of  Quinine 1 ounce. 

Pulverized  Opium  4 drams. 

Pulverized  Carbonate  of  Ammonia 2 ounces. 

Powdered  Nitrate  of  Potash  4 ounces. 

Powdered  Gentian  4 ounces. 

Make  into  fifteen  powders  and  give  one  at  a dose  every  three  or  four  hours.  Will 
generally  break  up  a cold  and  prevent  inflammatory  ailments. 

CATARRHAL  FEVER. 

Sulphate  of  Quinine  1 ounce. 

Acetanilide  2 ounces. 

Sweet  Spirits  of  Nitre 5 ounces. 

Alcohol  1 pint. 

Give  one  ounce  at  a dose  in  a pint  of  cold  water  every  two  or  three  hours  during 
the  day  until  a recovery  takes  place. 

FOR  NASAL  GLEET. 

Oxide  of  Arsenic 1 dram. 

Pulverized  Sulphate  Copper  4 drams. 

Pulverized  Gentian  4 ounces. 

Pulverized  Fenugreek  ^ 4 ounces. 

Make  into  two  dozen  powders  and  give  one  at  a dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times 

a day. 

FOR  THUMPS. 

Give  Sulphate  of  Morphine  hypodermically  in  doses  of  from  three  to  six 
grains.  Will  generally  relieve  thumps. 

DRYING  POWDER. 

Alum  (Dried)  1 ounce. 

Pulverized  Sulphate  Copper  1 ounce. 

Powdered  Sulphate  Iron 1 ounce. 

Calomel 1 ounce. 

Wood  Charcoal  3 ounces. 

Apply  to  raw  unhealthy  sores  once  or  twice  a day. 


FIFTY  MODERN  PRESCRIPTIONS. 


255 


DRYING  HEALING  POWDER. 

Oxide  Zinc  2 ounces. 

Powdered  Alum  2 ounces. 

Boric  Acid  4 ounces. 

This  makes  a nice  dressing  for  open  sores  and  should  be  applied  twice  a day. 

FOR  QUITTOR. 

Corrosive  Sublimate  1 ounce. 

Hydrochloric  Acid 3 ounces.  ^ 

Drop  a small  quantity  into  quittor  every  day  for  four  or  five  days.  This  is  also 
useful  for  removing  warts  and  for  bad  cases  of  foot-rot. 

FOR  REMOVING  WARTS. 

Apply  Acetic  Acid  or  Chromic  Acid,  or  Lunar  Caustic,  or  Salicylic  Acid. 
Sometimes  Castor  Oil  will  reduce  them. 

FOR  QUITTOR. 

First  apply  peroxide  of  hydrogen,  fifteen  minutes  later  inject  some  Tincture 
Iodine  into  sinus  and  apply  to  swollen  quarter  once  or  twice  a day  for  a few 
days,  then  every  two  or  three  days.  This  treatment  generally  proves  satisfac- 
tory. 

FOR  ROUP  IN  CHICKENS. 

Paint  the  head,  mouth  and  throat  with  Tincture  Iodine. 

FOR  TENDER  SHOULDERS  AND  COLLAR  AND  SADDLE  GALLS. 

Dissolve  two  ounces  Tannic  Acid  in  twelve  ounces  of  Alcohol,  adding 
one  quart  of  water  and  applying  to  shoulders  and  back  three  times  a day, 
first  sponging  the  parts  off  with  salt  and  cold  water. 

FOR  CRACKED  HEELS  IN  HORSES  AND  CHAPPED  TEATS 

IN  COWS. 

Apply  equal  parts  Friar’s  Balsam  and  Glycerine  to  sores  two  or  three 
times  a day.  In  some  cases  where  there  is  no  discharge  apply  Flexible  Col- 
odium  once  a day  and  it  will  act  very  well. 

FOR  LEUCORRHEA. 

Dissolve  ten  or  twelve  grains  powdered  alum  to  each  ounce  of  water  and 
use  as  an  injection  once  or  twice  a day;  or  dissolve  two  drams  permanganate 
potash  in  a gallon  or  more  of  water.  Or,  dissolve  one  and  one-half  ounces 
Sulphate  Zinc  and  one  and  one-half  ounces  Acetate  of  Lead  in  one  gallon 
of  water,  adding  four  ounces  tincture  opium,  and  apply  once  of  twice  a day. 


STOCK  FOODS,  CONDITION  POWDERS 
AND  POULTRY  FOODS. 

For  Horses,  Cattle,  Sheep,  Hogs  and  Poultry. 


STOCK  FOOD. 

Ground  Gentian 2 pounds. 

Pulverized  Fenugreek  2 pounds. 

Glauber’s  Salts  (Soda  Sulphate) ! 3 pounds. 

Common  Table  Salt  (Sodium  Chloride)  3 pounds. 

Oil  Meal  5 pounds. 

Cotton  Seed  Meal  10  pounds. 

Mix  thoroughly.  For  horses  and  cattle  give  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  at  a 
dose  in  feed  twice  or  three  times  a day;  for  sheep  and  hogs  give  a teaspoonful  or  two 
at  a dose  twice  daily. 

CONDITION  POWDER. 

Powdered  Gentian  1 pound. 

Ground  Nux  Vomica  % pound. 

Powdered  Fenugreek 1 pound. 

Bicarbonate  Soda  1 pound. 

Powdered  Rosin  14  pound. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  give  a tablespoonful  at  a dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times  a 
day  to  horses  or  cattle  and  a teaspoonful  to  every  three  or  four  sheep  or  hogs. 

POULTRY  FOOD. 

Ground  Buckwheat 2 pounds. 

Ground  Corn  4 pounds. 

Ground  Oats  4 pounds. 

Oil  Meal  2 pounds. 

Ginger  1 pound. 

Ground  Gentian  1 pound. 

Pulverized  Fenugreek  ‘ 1 pound. 

Pulverized  Anise 1 pound. 

Give  a teacupful  to  every  twenty  chickens  with  other  feed  twice  a day. 

POULTRY  TONIC. 

Cayenne  Pepper  1 pound. 

Black  Pepper  14  pound. 

Ginger  2 pounds. 

Baking  Soda  1 pound. 

Pulverized  Fenugreek  14  pound. 

Ground  Gentian  1 pound. 

This  makes  an  excellent  tonic  to  mix  with  chicken  feed  and  a teaspoonful  is 
enough  for  six  or  eight  chickens  and  it  should  be  given  once  or  twice  a day. 

STOCK  TONIC. 

Ground  Ginger  2 pounds. 

Ground  Gentian 2 pounds. 

Powdered  Red  Cinchona 1 pound. 

Ground  Nux  Vomica 1 pound. 

Baking  Soda  2 pounds. 

Powdered  Wood  Charcoal  2 pounds. 

Pulverized  Fenugreek  3 pounds. 

Pulverized  Anise  2 pounds. 


256 


STOCK  FOODS,  CONDITION  POWDERS  AND  POULTRY  FOODS.  ^57 


Mix  thoroughly.  For  horses  give  a tablespoonful  or  two;  for  cattle  give  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls;  for  sheep  % a teaspoonful  and  for  hogs  % of  a teaspoonful  at  a 
dose  in  feed  two  or  three  times  a day. 

STOCK  FOOD. 

Cooking  Soda  2 pounds. 

Ground  Ginger  2 pounds. 

Ground  Gentian  1 pound. 

Pulverized  Fenugreek  2 pounds. 

Powdered  Wood  Charcoal 2 pounds. 

Oil  Meal 5 pounds. 

Common  Table  Salt  1 pound. 

Middlings  or  Cotton  Seed  Meal  10  pounds. 

For  horses  and  cattle  give  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  at  a dose  in  feed  twice  a 
day;  for  sheep  and  swine  give  a teaspoonful  or  two  twice  a day. 

CONDITION  POWDER. 

Ground  Gentian  1 pound. 

Ginger  1 pound. 

Cooking  Soda  1 pound. 

Fenugreek  1 pound. 

Powdered  Saltpeter  1 pound. 

Mix  and  give  a tablespoonful  or  two  at  a dose  to  horses  or  cattle  in  feed  or  with 
a spoon  two  or  three  times  a day;  for  sheep  and  hogs  one-sixth  as  much. 

TONIC  POWDER. 

Powdered  Sulphate  Iron  2 ounces. 

Sulphate  Quinine  1 ounce. 

Powdered  Nux  Vomica 2 ounces. 

Powdered  Gentian 4 ounces. 

Powdered  Fenugreek  3 ounces. 

Make  into  twenty  powders  and  give  one  at  a dose  in  feed  or  with  a spoon  to 
horses  or  cattle  two  or  three  times  a day;  for  sheep  and  hogs  give  one-sixth  as  much. 


3—17 


USEFUL  INSTRUMENTS  AND  TOOLS  KEPT  AT 
DR.  FAIR’S  MENTOR  STOCK  FARM. 

These  things  should  be  kept  on  every  farm. 

(See  Illustrations.) 


No.  1.  Pincers  for  pulling  off  shoes  or  cutting  edges  off  hoofs. 

No.  2.  A claw-hammer. 

No.  3.  A twitch  made  of  a buggy  spoke  with  hole  in  each  end.  Can 
be  used  by  one  person  by  tying  lower  rope  in  throat  latch  or,  if  applied  to 
hock  of  cow,  tie  around  lower  part  of  hind  leg. 

No.  4.  A pair  of  forceps  large  enough  to  pull  a grinder  tooth  of  a horse 
or  ox. 

No.  5.  An  inexpensive  balling  iron  made  by  a blacksmith  out  of  one- 
half  round  steel.  This  is  a useful  instrument  to  keep  mouth  open  while  ex- 
amining the  teeth  of  horses  or  cattle  or  when  using  a probang. 

No.  6.  A balling  gun  for  shooting  balls  down  horses  or  cattle.  I 
found  this  a useful  instrument  at  the  Cleveland  Zoo  when  giving  the  sick  lion 
cathartic  pills.  By  teasing  him  he  opened  his  mouth  and  while  open  I shot 
the  pills  down  him. 

No.  7.  A pair  of  curved  scissors  for  trimming  fetlocks. 

No.  8.  Very  useful  hopples  for  fastening  either  the  fore  or  hind  legs 
together  to  prevent  the  horse  or  ox  from  striking  or  kicking.  They  should 
be  buckled  above  the  knee  or  hock  but  can  be  fastened  lower  down. 

No.  ' 9.  A pair  of  cutting  forceps  for  shortening  small  teeth. 

No.  10.  A harness  punch  for  punching  holes  of  different  sizes  in  leather, 
canvas  or  cloth. 

No.  11.  A common  strong  heavy  screw-driver. 

No.  12.  A pair  of  hand  clippers  that  can  be  used  with  one  or  both  hands. 

No.  13.  A medium  weight  blacksmith’s  hoof  knife  that  should  be  kept  on 
every  farm. 

No.  14.  A pair  of  small  forceps  for  pulling  wolf  teeth  in  horses  and  small 
teeth  from  other  animals. 

No.  15.  A file. 

No.  16.  A clinch  cutter,  etc. 

No.  17.  A wine  bottle  for  drenching  horses  and  cattle. 

No.  18.  A tin  funnel  connected  with  rubber  tube.  Used  to  give  enemas 
(injections)  to  horses  and  cattle.  For  small  animals  use  small  funnel  and 
small  rubber  tube. 

No.  19.  A common  steel  chisel,  useful  for  many  purposes. 

No.  20.  A small  pair  of  pliers. 

No.  21.  A monkey  wrench. 

No.  22.  A pair  of  dental  bone-cutting  forceps.  Useful  in  shortening  the 
nippers  of  old  horses  when  they  are  too  long. 

268 


p 

S 

USEFUL  INSTRUMENTS  AND  TOOLS  FOR  THE  STOCK  FARM. 

(See  explanation.) 

(Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  “ Mentor  Stock  Farm  ” at  Mentor,  Ohio  especially  for 

this  book.) 


USEFUT.  VETERINARY  SURGICAL  INSTRUMENTS. 

(See  exi)l;ination. ) v 

(Photograi)lied  at  Dr.  Fair’s  Veterinary  Hospital  espeeially  for  tliis  hook.) 


USEFUL  SURGICAL  INSTRUMENTS. 


259 


No.  23.  A pair  of  wooden  clamps  used  when  castrating  when  the  cord 
is  burned  off  with  a hot  knife-shaped  iron.  They  are  also  useful  when  burn- 
ing off  tumors  that  have  necks. 

No.  24.  A pair  of  large  forceps  for  pulling  molar  teeth. 

No.  25.  A trephine  used  for  sawing  out  a circular  piece  of  bone  when 
operating  for  nasal  gleet  or  when  an  upper  grinder  tooth  has  to  be  punched  out. 

No.  26.  A long  seton  or  roweling  needle  for  inserting  setons  or  rowels 
under  the  skin  of  sweenied  or  diseased  animals. 

No.  27.  A large  combination  pipe  wrench. 

No.  28.  A bone  saw  for  removing  horns  when  the  farmer  has  no  de- 
horning tools ; also  useful  in  sawing  meat  bones. 

No.  29.  A combination,  flat  and  one-half  round  file  used  in  doing  horse 
dentistry. 

No.  30.  An  old-fashioned  turnkey  used  in  place  of  molar  forceps  in 
extracting  grinder  teeth.  This  is  an  inexpensive  tool  that  I used  many  years 
ago  with  good  results ; however,  the  forceps  are  to  be  preferred. 

No.  31.  A common  and  useful  dental  float  that  should  be  kept  on  every 
farm  unless  a veterinarian  looks  after  the  teeth  of  the  horses. 

USEFUL  SURGICAL  INSTRUMENTS  FOR  THE  STOCK  FARM. 

(See  Illustrations.) 

No.  1.  Is  a trocar  with  canula  for  puncturing  horses  or  tapping  ab- 
scesses. The  trocar  used  for  horses  should  be  much  smaller  than  the  one 
used  for  cattle. 

No.  2.  Is  a trocar  and  canula  suitable  for  puncturing  cattle  for  bloat. 

No.  3.  Is  a useful  forcep  (Colson’s  Pig  Forcep)  used  for  taking  pigs 

away  from  a sow.  This  is  a very  useful  instrument  and  not  expensive. 

No.  4.  Is  a forcep  used  for  taking  pups  away  from  a bitch  and  can  also 
be  used  on  sows. 

No.  5.  Is  a catheter  used  for  drawing  urine  from  mares. 

No.  6.  Is  an  ecraseur  used  for  castrating  animals  and  cutting  off  tumors. 

No.  7'.  Is  a bicycle  pump  with  rubber  tube  and  milking  tube  at  end, 

also  barrel  for  holding  absorbent  cotton  to  keep  dust  or  dirt  from  getting  into 
thS  udder  when  treating  for  milk  fever.  Flundreds  of  farmers  have  written 
me  that  they  applied  the  air  treatment  with  a common  bicycle  pump,  rubber 
tube  and  goose  quill  and  thus  saved  valuable  cows;  however,  I recommend  the 
use  of  the  barrel  filled  with  absorbent  cotton  to  sterilize  the  air;  or,  best  of 
all,  use  oxygen. 

No.  8.  Is  a short  seton  or  roweling  needle,  used  in  treating  chronic 
cases  of  sweeny  or  drawing  a tape  through  an  abscess. 

No.  9.  Is  a brass  veterinary  syringe  suitable  for  giving  medicine  to 
animals  or  injecting  medicine  into  wounds. 

No.  10.  Is  a trephine  for  cutting  out  a circular  piece  of  bone  when 
operating  for  grub  in  the  head  of  sheep  or  reaching  an  abscess  under  a flat 
bone  about  the  head. 

No.  11.  Is  an  emasculator  used  in  castrating  animals.  This  is  an  in- 
strument that  every  stock  breeder  who  does  his  own  castrating  should  have. 

No.  12.  Ts  a pair  of  splinter  forceps  that  can  also  be  used  for  picking 
up  an  open  blood  \ essel  before  it  is  tied  to  stop  bleeding. 

No.  13.  Is  a pair  of  placenta  forceps  useful  when  operating  on  ewes, 
sows  or  bitches ; besides,  they  are  useful  for  other  purposes. 


260 


THE  PEOPLE’S  PIOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


No.  14.  Is  a very  handy  tool  useful  for  many  different  purposes. 

No.  15.  Is  a tracheotomy  tube  for  placing  in  the  windpipe  of  animals 

that  have  throat  trouble  causing  difficulty  in  breathing.  It  is  often  necessary 
to  use  this  tube  in  case  of  colt  distemper. 

No.  16.  Is  a trephine  of  medium  size  for  boring  through  the  bones  of 
face  when  treating  nasal  gleet  in  horses  or  cattle. 

No.  17.  Is  a pair  of  extracting  forceps  suitable  for  pulling  small  teeth. 

No.  18.  Is  a tenaculum  or  hook  with  a handle.  This  is  used  to  catch  into 

and  hold  the  parts  when  removing  warts  and  tumors  that  cannot  be  held  by 
the  hand. 

No.  19.  Is  a guttered  probe  or  director  used  in  exploring  wounds  or  di- 
recting a knife  when  cutting  deep  and  also  used  in  rimming  out  cow’s  teats 
or  draining  an  abscess. 

No.  20.  Is  a pair  of  long  slim  splinter  forceps  for  removing  foreign  bodies 
without  making  a large  wound. 

No.  21.  Is  a pair  of  artery  forceps  used  to  snap  onto  and  close  a blood 
vessel  until  it  is  tied. 

No.  22.  Is  a pair  of  seton  scissors,  but  is  also  very  handy  in  cutting  off 
the  tails  of  lambs  or  pups. 

No.  23.  Is  a hypodermic  syringe  and  needles.  This  is  a very  useful 
instrument  on  the  farm  and  must  be  used  when  testing  cattle  with  tuberculin 
for  tuberculosis  or  testing  horses  with  mallein  for  glanders  and  giving  medi- 
cine hypodermically. 

No.  24.  Are  two  inexpensive  spreaders  or  hooks  used  for  keeping  a 
wound  open  when  cutting  or  stitching  for  deep  seated  trouble. 

No.  25.  Is  a pair  of  strong  bone  forceps  that  are  useful  for  a great  many 
different  purposes  on  the  stock  farm. 

No.  26.  Is  a picture  of  three  knives  that  are  not  expensive,  but  useful 
in  the  stable  and  on  the  farm. 

No.  27.  Is  a pair  of  forceps  with  hooks  for  grabbing  a tumor  or  wart 
while  operating. 

No.  28.  Is  a pair  of  saw-toothed  forceps  for  picking  up  an  open  blood 
vessel  or  pulling  out  splinters,  snags  or  nails. 

No.  29.  Is  a smooth  steel  crooked  probe  for  exploring  wounds.  * 

No.  30.  Is  a bulb  syringe,  not  expensive,  that  can  be  used  for  many 

purposes  by  using  stems  of  different  lengths. 

No.  31.  Is  a steel  clamp  with  set  screw,  useful  when  castrating  where 
the  cord  is  burned  off,  or  in  burning  off  tumors. 

No.  32.  Is  a thermometer  for  taking  the  temperature  of  animals;  this 
is  an  instrument  that  should  be  kept  in  every  home  as  it  can  be  used  either 
for  people  or  for  animals. 

No.  33.  Is  a dental  float  with  one  crooked  shank.  This  is  suitable  for 

rounding  the  first  four  grinders.  These  teeth  are  not  so  easily  rounded  with 

a straight  float  as  with  a crooked  one. 

No.  34.  Is  a sliding  chisel,  used  for  cutting  off  abnormal  growths  of 
grinder  teeth. 

No.  35.  Are  surgical  needles  for  stitching  wounds  and  every  farmer 
should  keep  a few  of  them  on  hand. 


THE  CANADIAN  STOCK  FARM  WHERE  DR.  FAIR  SPENT  HIS  BOYHOOD 


DAYS. 

Dr.  Fair  was  born  and  brought  up  on  this  beautiful  Canadian  Stock  Farm  and 
here  lie  learned  his  first  lessons  in  practical  farming,  horse  shoeing  and  raising  pedi- 
greed live  stock. 

(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


DR.  FAIR'S  “MENTOR  STOCK  FARM.” 

This  stock  farm  is  at  Mentor,  Ohio,  near  the  old  home  of  President  Garlield. 
(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


BREEDING  AND  FEEDING  LIVE  STOCK 
FOR  PROFIT. 

(How  to  Produce  Milk,  Wool,  Muscle  and  Fat.) 


BREEDING. 

The  most  valuable  lessons  in  breeding  are  to  be  learned  by  consulting 
the  successful  breeder.  Every  stock  raiser  should  be  a good  judge  of  the 
kind  of  animals  he  is  producing;  this  can  only  be  learned  by  study  and  close 
observation.  Why  not  visit  the  State  and  County  fairs  and  look  over  the 
total  exhibit;  then  watch  the  judging.  If  necessary,  ask  the  judge  questions — 
why  such  an  animal  was  awarded  the  prize.  This  teaches  the  breeder  how  to 
tell  an  animal  of  quality  from  an  ordinary  specimen ; besides,  he  learns  to 
know  market  values,  which,  of  course,  greatly  assists  him  in  both  buying  and 
selling.  Following  up  the  different  causes  of  failure  in  breeding,  I find  those 
who  have  been  unsuccessful  were  either  poor  judges  of  live  stock  or  they 
were  poor  feeders. 

It  is  always  a mistake  to  keep  too  much  live  stock  on  a farm  but  never  a 
mistake  to  keep  a few  good  animals.  These  same  animals  should  always  have 
the  best  of  care.  Every  breeder  I know  is  keeping  a few  animals  at  a loss 
and  some  breeders  have  no  profitable  animals  at  all  on  their  farms  and  are 
astonished  that  they  are  not  making  money. 

The  unprofitable  live  stock  should  be  sold  and  profitable  ones  put  in  their 
place. 

When  engaging  in  the  business  of  live  stock  raising,  select  nothing  but 
good  animals  that  are  suitable  for  not  more  than  two  or  three  purposes.  It 
is  important  that  breeding  stock  be  of  rugged  constitution  and  as  free  from 
disease  as  possible.  Inbreeding  has  a tendency  to  predispose  live  stock  to 
disease,  especially  if  it  is  carried  too  far.  When  a breeding  animal  has  a con- 
stitutional defect  it  should  be  mated  to  one  with  the  same  points  exception- 
ally well  developed.  By  giving  attention  to  such  a rule,  the  hereditary  tend- 
ency or  predisposition  to  either  weakness  or  disease  can  often  be  avoided. 

The  breeder  must  keep  in  mind  the  value  of  soundness  in  horses  for 
unsoundness  depreciates  their  market  value;  therefore,  the  breeder  should 
possess  some  knowledge  of  what  constitutes  soundness.  No  stockman  can 
afford  to  use  an  unsound  stallion  for  breeding  purposes  unless  the  unsoundness 
was  produced  by  accident  or  injury  for  if  it  is  a hereditary  ailment  it  is  pretty 
sure  to  be  transmitted  to  the  produce.  Successful  breeders  do  not  use  crippled, 
blind,  ring-boned,  spavined,  curbed,  badly  puffed,  crooked-legged  or  deformed 
mares  for  breeding  purposes.  It  is  also  a mistake  to  use  roarers  (whistlers) 
or  broken-winded  mares  that  have  heaves  for  breeding  purposes;  besides,  it 
seldom  pays  to  breed  bad  tempered,  tricky,  vicious  mares. 

261 


362 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Breeders  who  aim  to  produce  either  a draft,  general  utility,  saddle  horse 
or  roadster  seem  to  be  more  successful  than  those  who  try  to  raise  horses  for 
all  purposes.  No  matter  what  kind  you  raise,  they  should  be  good  walkers 
and  have  fair  all-round  action  and  travel  without  striking.  Never  select  thin, 
gaunt,  hard  keepers  for  breeding  purposes ; they  are  usually  unprofitable. 

In  raising  cattle  select  large,  easy  keepers  for  beef  and  deep  milkers  for 
dairy  purposes,  rather  than  to  try  to  combine  them  both  in  one. 

In  swine  select  hogs  that  are  of  a moderately  large  breed  but  easy  keepers, 
for  certain  animals  are  usually  fatted  at  a loss. 

In  sheep  select  a flock  that  are  good  breeders,  good  wool  producers  and 
those  that  are  easily  fatted. 

To  be  successful  in  raising  live  stock  for  profit  you  must,  as  I have 
stated,  be  a good  judge  and  have  a thorough  knowledge  of  feeding. 

FEEDING. 

Modern  feeding  principles  are  the  outgrowth  of  centuries  of  feeding.  The 
application  of  science  to  feeding  has  resulted  in  the  formation  and  classifica- 
tion of  rules  and  principles  which  experience  has  shown  to  underlie  all  feeding 
operations.  Good  feeding  was  just  as  scientific  centuries  ago  as  it  is  today. 
The  experienced  feeder  used  many  of  the  same  foods,  got  just  as  good  results 
and  fed  just  as  economically,  but  he  did  not  understand  the  physiological 
reasons  for  his  methods  and  could  impart  but  little  of  his  practical  knowledge 
to  his  fellow  men.  With  our  present  knowledge  of  animal  nutrition,  food 
analysis,  and  the  uses  of  the  food  elements  in  the  animal  body,  the  novice 
should  be  able  to  gain  the  practical  knowledge  in  a few  years  which  the  old 
feeders  had  at  the  end  of  a lifetime. 

The  earliest  farmers  kept  little  live  stock.  Their  farms  were  rough  and 
uncultivated  and  their  animals  grazed  throughout  the  year  on  the  native 
grasses.  Feed  was  not  stored  for  winter  use  and  little  or  no  shelter  was  pro- 
vided. Feeding  under  these  conditions  was  a simple  operation.  But  as  graz- 
ing land  became  scarce,  and  as  animals  increased  in  numbers  and  improved  in 
quality  the  matter  of  providing  suitable  nourishment  and  utilizing  it  at  a 
profit  became  a study.  At  the  present  time  the  need  for  economy  in  feeding 
and  the  perfection  of  the  product  is  recognized  by  all.  The  feeder  of  today 
must  feed  to  produce  the  greatest  number  of  pounds  of  flesh,  milk  or  wool  at 
the  least  possible  expenditure  of  food,  time  and  labor.  To  do  this  he  must 
have  at  least  a working  knowledge  of  the  fundamental  principles  of  animal 
nutrition.  No  hard  and  fast  rules  can  be  laid  down  for  the  feeding  of  all 
classes  of  animals  under  all  conditions  and  surroundings.  We  can  calculate 
the  rations  and  method  of  handling  which  will  approximate  the  results  de- 
sired. Maximum  results  can  then  be  obtained  by  slight  deviation  from  the 
calculated  rules. 

Every  feeder  knows  that  certain  combinations  of  foods  give  better  results 
than  others.  When  the  old  feeders  found  that  their  animals  were  not  doing 
as  well  as  they  should,  they  gave  them  a little  “ meal.”  They  did  not  know 
why  the  meal  produced  the  desired  results,  but  experience  taught  them  that 
it  would.  Here  the  chemist  and  the  student  of  animal  nutrition  came  to  the 
assistance  of  the  feeders.  The  chemist  learned  that  certain  combinations  of 


BREEDING  AND  FEEDING  FOR  PROFIT. 


263 


chemical  elements  were  present  in  all  food  materials.  He  further  learned  that 
these  same  combinations  were  found  in  the  various  tissues  of  the  animal  body. 
The  logical  conclusion  was  that  the  feeding  animal  should  be  furnished  with 
such  foods  as  would  supply  the  necessary  elements  in  the  proportions  best 
suited  to  the  animal  being  fed. 

FOOD  ANALYSIS. 

The  agricultural  chemist  divided  the  nutritious  substances  in  foods  into 
groups  which  he  called  water,  ash,  protein,  carbohydrates,  crude  fiber,  nitro- 
gen free  extract  and  fat.  The  processes  by  which  he  determines  the  quanti- 
ties of  each  of  these  substances  are  too  complicated  to  be  presented  here.  We 
must  content  ourselves  with  brief  statements  of  what  each  consists  and  some- 
thing of  the  function  of  each  in  building  up  the  body.  All  foods,  no  matter 
how  dry  they  may  appear  to  be,  contain  some  water  or  moisture.  The  ash 
is  the  mineral  element  of  the  plant  and  goes  to  build  up  the  bony  tissues  of 
the  animal  and,  to  a small  degree,  the  soft  tissues.  Protein  is  a group  of  ele- 
ments containing  nitrogen.  It  is  absolutely  essential  to  the  production  and 
repair  of  blood,  muscles,  nerves,  bones  and  all  the  tissues  of  the  body.  The 
greatest  amount  of  protein  is  required  by  growing  animals  but  animals  of  all 
ages  and  all  kinds  require  some  protein.  Carbohydrates  form  a group  of 
nutrients  containing  carbon,  oxygen  and  hydrogen,  but  no  nitrogen.  They 
cannot  produce  or  repair  tissue,  but  they  do  form  fat,  either  in  the  body  or  in 
milk,  and  they  produce  energy  and  heat.  Crude  fiber  is  the  framework  of  the 
cells  in  plants.  Nitrogen  free  extract  is  the  portion  of  the  feeding  stuff  re- 
maining when  the  other  substances  have  been  deducted.  Fat  is  the  vege- 
table oil,  not  unlike  that  found  in  the  animal  body.  The  fats  serve  the  same 
purpose  as  the  carbohydrates,  except  that  as  a source  of  energy  and  heat  the 
fats  are  about  two  and  one-fourth  times  as  valuable  as  carbohydrates. 

THE  ESSENTIAL  ELEMENTS  OF  FOODS. 

The  protein,  carbohydrates,  and  fats  are  the  essential  groups.  All  three 
of  them  are  used  as  sources  of  heat  and  energy.  Any  or  all  of  them  may  be 
used  for  fat  production,  although  the  chief  sources  of  animal  fat  are  the 
vegetable  fats  and  carbohydrates.  Protein  is  the  only  group  that  can  build 
up  and  repair  the  tissues  and  maintain  the  vital  organs. 

FEEDING  STANDARDS. 

These  facts  have  been  determined  for  us  by  the  chemists.  The  students 
of  animal  nutrition  dealt  with  the  analyses  furnished  by  the  chemists.  They 
determined  the  requirements  of  the  various  animals  under  varying  conditions 
of  age  and  utility.  They  learned  that  all  rations  must  contain  some  protein. 
They  also  learned  that  the  addition  of  carbohydrates  and  fats  reduced  the 
amount  of  protein  required.  The  question  then  arose  how  much  of  the  ration 
for  different  purposes  should  consist  of  protein,  and  how  much  of  carbohy- 
drates and  fats.  This  was  worked  out  by  extensive  investigation  with  animals 
of  all  kinds  and  under  all  normal  conditions,  and  given  to  us  in  what  are 
known  as  feeding  standards.  The  standards  most  used  are  those  established 
by  the  German  scientists  Wolff  and  Lehmann,  and  are  known  as  the  Wolff- 


264 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Lehmann  standards,  the  essential  parts  of  which  are  as  follows,  showing 
amounts  of  nutrients  required  per  day  for  1,000  pounds  live  weight : 

, DIGESTIBLE  NUTRIENTS. s 

Total  Dry  Carbo- 


Matter, 

Total, 

Protein,  hydrates. 

Fats, 

Nutritive 

Animals. 

Lbs. 

Lbs. 

Lbs. 

Lbs. 

Lbs.  • 

Ratio. 

Growing  Cattle 

Beef  Breeds 

6 to  12  months,  550  lb 

25 

16.4 

2.5 

13.2 

0.7 

1:  5.91 

12  to  18  months,  750  lb 

24 

15.0 

2.0 

12.2 

0.5 

1;  6.81 

18  to  24  months,  950  lb 

....  24 

14.2 

1.8 

12.0 

0.4 

1:  7.17 

Dairy  Breeds 

6 to  12  months,  500  lb 

27 

15.0 

2.0 

12.5 

0.5 

1:  6.81 

12  to  18  months,  700  lb 

26 

14.7 

1.8 

12.5 

0.4 

1:  7.44 

18  to  24  months,  900  lb 

26 

13.8 

1.5 

12.0 

0.3 

1:  8.46 

Fattening  Cattle 

First  Period  

30 

18.0 

2.5 

15.0 

0.5 

1:  6.45 

Second  Period 

30 

18.2 

3.0 

14.5 

0.7 

1:  5.36 

Third  Period  

26 

18.4 

2.7 

15.0 

0.7 

1:  6.14 

Milch  Cows 

Giving  11  lbs.  milk  per  day  . . . 

25 

11.9 

1.6 

10.0 

0.3 

1:  6.67 

Giving  I6V2  lbs.  milk  per  day  . . . 

27 

13.4 

2.0 

11.0 

0.4 

l:  5.95 

Giving  22  lbs.  milk  per  day  . . . 

29 

16.0 

2.5 

13.0 

0.5 

1:  5.65 

Giving  27V2  lbs.  milk  per  day  . . . 

32 

17.1 

3.3 

13.0 

0.8 

1:  4.48 

Horses 

Light  Work  

20 

11.4 

1.5 

9.5 

0.4 

1:  6.93 

Medium  Work  

24 

13.6 

2.0 

11.0 

0.6 

1:  6.18 

Heavy  Work 

26 

16.6 

2.5 

13.3 

0.8 

1 : 6.04 

Brood  Sows  

22 

18.4 

2.5 

15.5 

0.4 

1:  6.56 

Fattening  Swine 

First  Period 

36 

30.2 

4.5 

25.0 

0.7 

1:  5.90 

Second  Period 

32 

28.5 

4.0 

24.0 

0.5 

1:  6.28 

Third  Period  

25 

21.1 

2.7 

18.0 

0.4 

1:  7.00 

Sheep 

Coarse  Wool  

20 

11.9 

1.2 

10.5 

0.2 

1:  9.13 

Thin  Wool  

23 

13.8 

1.5 

12.0 

0.3 

1:  8.45 

Breeding  Ewes  

25 

18.4 

2.9 

15.0 

0.5 

1:  5.56 

NUTRITIVE  RATIO. 

We  have  seen  that  protein,  carbohydrates  and  fats  are  the  essential  nu- 
trients in  a food  ration  or  a single  food  material.  The  proportion  of  protein 
to  the  carbohydrates  and  fats  in  a food  is  a quick  indication  of  the  value  of  that 
food  in  a ration.  This  is  known  as  the  nutritive  ratio.  The  nutritive  ratio 
is  the  ratio  of  the  amount  of  the  digestible  protein  in  a given  feeding  material 
or  a combination  of  foods  to  the  amount  of.  digestible  carbohydrates  and  fats 
they  contain.  Fats  yield  two  and  one-fourth  times  as  much  heat  in  the  body 
as  carbohydrates.  To  determine  the  nutritive  ratio  of  a food  or  a combination 
of  foods  the  amount  of  digestible  fat  is  multiplied  by  two  and  one-fourth 
(2.25),  and  the  product  obtained  is  added  to  the  total  quantity  of  digestible 
carbohydrates  in  the  given  food  or  combination  of  foods.  This  sum  divided 
by  the  digestible  protein  gives  the  nutritive  ratio.  For  example,  the  tables 
of  food  analyses  give  the  digestible  ingredients  of  corn  as  follows : Protein, 

7.14  per  cent. ; carbohydrates,  66.12  per  cent. ; fat,  4.97  per  cent.  To  find  the 
nutritive  ratio  of  corn  we  multiply  the  fat  content  by  two  and  one-fourth 
(4.97  X 2.25)  and  get  11.1.8.  Adding  this  to  the  carbohydrates  (66.12  plus 


BREEDING  AND  FEEDING  FOR  PROFIT. 


2&5 


11.18)  we  have  77.30.  Now,  dividing  by  the  protein  (77.30  divided  by  7.14) 
we  get  10.8,  and  we  express  the  nutritive  ratio  of  corn  as  1 to  10.8  or  1 : 10.8. 

TABLE  OF  FOOD  ANALYSES. 

Tables  of  analyses  of  foods  may  be  obtained  from  many  different  sources. 
The  following  brief  table  gives  the  average  digestible  ingredients  of  some 
of  the  most  common  food  materials : 


Total  Dry  Carbo-  Nutritive 


Food. 

Matter. 

Protein. 

hydrates. 

Fats. 

Ratio. 

Corn  Fodder  

57.8 

2.34 

32.34 

1.15 

1: 

14.9 

Corn  Silage  

25.6 

1.21 

14.56 

0.88 

1: 

13.7 

Timothy  

86.8 

2.89 

43.72 

1.43 

1: 

16.2 

Red  Clover  

84.7 

7.38 

38.15 

1.81 

1; 

5.7 

Alfalfa  

91.6 

10.58 

37.33 

1.38 

1: 

3.8 

Corn  Meal  

85.0 

6.26 

65.26 

3.5 

1: 

11.7 

Ear  Corn  

89.1 

7.14 

66.12 

4.97 

1: 

10.8 

Oats  

89.0 

9.25 

48.34 

4.18 

1 : 

: 6.2 

Wheat  Bran 

88.5 

12.01 

41.23 

2.87 

1: 

4.0 

Wheat  Middlings  

84.0 

12.79 

53.15 

3.4 

1: 

4.8 

Cottonseed  Meal  

91.8 

37.01 

16.52 

12.58 

1: 

1.2 

Oil  Meal  

90.1 

30.59 

38.72 

2.9 

1: 

: 1.5 

BALANCED  RATIONS. 

We  have  found  that  certain  elements  in  plants  go  to  build  up  or  repair 
certain  tissues  in  the  animal  body.  Different  classes  of  animals,  and  animals 
under  different  conditions  of  growth  and  age  require  different  feeding.  Thus 
the  growing  calf  requires  muscle  and  bone-making  material.  The  fattening 
steer  requires  tissue-building  and  fat-producing  material.  The  dairy  cow 
requires  a food  that  will  keep  the  vital  organs  in  repair  and  at  the  same  time 
produce  fat  for  milk  production.  Obviously,  these  different  animals  require 
different  rations.  Each  animal  requires  a ration  in  which  the  food  elements 
are  supplied  in  the  proportion  best  suited  to  meet  the  needs  of  its  own  con- 
dition, work  or  growth.  Such  a ration  is  called  a balanced  ration,  i.  e.,  a ration 
combined  of  foods  mixed  in  such  proportion  as  to  provide  the  constituents  in 
such  relative  quantities  as  experience  has  shown  to  give  the  best  results  under 
the  given  set  of  conditions. 

The  feeding  standards  give  us  the  requirements  of  the  animals.  The 
tables  of  analyses  give  us  the  amounts  of  digestible  nutrients  supplied  by  the 
various  foods.  The  task  of  the  feeder  is  to  combine  these  foods  in  such 
quantities  as  will  give  the  animals  the  required  nourishment.  In  actual  feed- 
ing, the  feeder  must  also  make  this  selection  with  a view  to  economy  and  the 
utilization  of  the  foods  at  hand.  To  make  a practical  application,  suppose  that 
we  are  to  feed  a dairy  cow  weighing  1,000  pounds  and  giving  22  pounds  of 
milk  per  day,  and  have  clover  hay,  corn  silage,  corn  meal,  cottonseed  meal 
and  wheat  bran  to  feed.  The  feeding  standards  tell  us  that  such  a cow  should 
have  about  29  pounds  of  dry  matter  per  day.  This  dry  matter  should  contain 
16  pounds  protein,  13  pounds  carbohydrates,  0.5  pounds  fat  and  have  a nutri- 
tive ratio  of  1 to  5.65.  By  reference  to  the  table  of  analyses  and  trying  out 
different  quantities  of  foods  named,  we  find  that  the  requirements  of  the 
standard  are  best  met  by  a combination  of  4%  lbs.  clover,  27  lbs.  silage, 
5%  lbs.  of  corn,  6 lbs.  of  bran  and  2 lbs.  of  cottonseed  meal.  By  ref- 


36G 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


erence  to  the  table  of  analyses  we  find  that  their  combination  supplies  the 
nutritive  elements  in  the  quantities  shown  in  the  following  table : 


Dry 

Carbo- 

Food. 

Matter. 

Protein. 

hydrates. 

Fats. 

4.5  lbs.  Clover  

3.8 

0.33 

1.71 

.08 

27  lbs.  Silage  

6.9 

0.32 

3.93 

.24 

5.5  lbs.  Corn  

4.7 

0.34 

3.59 

.19 

6 lbs.  Bran  

5.3 

0.72 

2.47 

.17 

2 lbs.  Cottonseed  Meal 

1.8 

0.74 

0.33 

.25 

Total  

22.5 

2.45 

12.03 

0.93 

Standard  

29.0 

2.5 

13. 

0.5 

Applying  the  rule  given  for  determining  the  nutritive  ratio,  we  find  that 
the  ratio  of  the  above  combination  is  1 to  6.4.  The  requirements  of  the 
standard  are  thus  met  near  enough  for  practical  feeding.  To  meet  the  needs 
of  each  individual,  slightly  vary  the  quantities  here  and  watch  results.  Indi- 
viduals vary  in  their  needs,  and  the  feeder  must  study  his  animals  and  vary  his 
computed  rations  accordingly. 


A BARNYARD  SCENE. 

(Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  “ Mentor  Stock  Farm,”  Mentor,  Ohio  especially  for  this  book.) 


TRICKS  OF  HORSE  TRADERS 


During  my  thirty  years  of  experience,  I have  had  occasion  to  buy  and  sell 
several  thousand  horses  and  have  met  with  a great  many  deceptions  among 
unscrupulous  horse  traders.  I have  assisted  in  sending  several  crooked  horse 
dealers  to  the  state’s  prison  and  for  the  protection  of  the  public,  I have  deemed 
it  wise  to  expose  a few  of  their  tricks.  Beware  the  Tricks  of  Horse  Swindlers. 

1.  Dieting  and  Doping  a Heaver. — Broken  winded  horses  breathe  easier 
when  empty,  hence  bulky  food  is  kept  from  them,  their  food  is  dampened  with 
lime  water  and  they  are  doped  with  such  drugs  as  arsenic,  lobelia,  chloral 
hydrate,  opium,,  stramonium  or  even  lard  or  linseed  oil  and  sometimes  bird 
shot  is  given  them  to  palliate  or  hide  the  symptoms  of  heaves  until  the  horse 
is  unloaded  on  the  purchaser. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Let  him  eat  his  fill  of  dry,  bulky  food  or  satisfy  his 
thirst  with  water,  then  trot  him  up  a hill  or  on  a muddy  road  or  otherwise 
subject  him  to  violent  exercise  and  he  will  show  the  symptoms  of  heaves. 

2.  Plugging  a Roarer  or  Whistler. — It  is  a common  practice  to  insert  a 
sponge  in  one  or  both  nostrils  with  thread  attached,  making  it  possible  to 
clear  the  nostril  after  the  sale  is  made.  Or,  sometimes- both  ends  are  cut  from 
a lemon,  it  is  squeezed  dry  and  then  inserted  in  the  nostril  where  it  will  shrink 
and  be  blown  out  later  by  the  horse.  Plugging  the  nostrils  prevents  roaring 
or  whistling  for  the  time  being.  Checking  the  head  high  also  aids  in  cover- 
ing up  the  symptoms. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Always  examine  high  up  in  nostrils  when  buying  a 
horse.  Also  give  him  a brisk  gallop  to  bring  out  the  symptoms. 

3.  Blowing  Up  Old  and  Sweenied  Horses. — When  a dishonest  horse 
trader  has  a sweenied  horse,  it  is  a common  practice  for  him  to  blow  air  under 
the  skin  over  the  shrunken  parts.  He  does  this  by  puncturing  the  skin  and 
blowing  air  under  it  through  a tube  or  goose  quill.  This  gives  the  wasted 
parts  the  appearance  of  being  normal.  Sometimes  this  is  done  with  old  horses 
to  give  them  a younger  appearance. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — By  applying  pressure  to  the  parts  with  the  hand  a 
crackling  noise  is  produced  which  is  quite  unnatural,  therefore  by  close  ob- 
servation this  trick  is  easily  discovered. 

4.  Paralyzing  a Switcher. — Unscrupulous  dealers,  to  stop  switching  and 
“ line  grabbing  ” until  after  a sale  is  made,  hang  a four  or  five  pound  weight 
to  the  tail  for  several  hours  or  tie  the  tail  up  over  the  back,  keeping  it  in  a 
fixed  position  until  the  tail  is  temporarily  paralyzed.  This  prevents  switching 
while  the  partial  paralysis  lasts. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — It  is  always  suspicious  when  a horse  hangs  the  tail  in 
a limp  or  pendulous  way  and  never  moves  or  switches  it. 

5.  Gingering. — Crooked  horse  traders  frequently  insert  a piece  of  ginger 
root  in  the  lower  bowel  or  moisten  the  anus  with  an  irritating  medicine  of 
some  kind  to  make  him  carry  a high  tail  and  act  more  lively  when  in  the  show 
ring  or  on  the  road. 


267 


268 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Caution  to  Buyer. — Be  suspicious  when  a horse  carries  his  tail  too  high. 

6.  Hiding  Lameness. — Horse  swindlers  have  learned  to  handle  the  hy- 
podermic syringe  and  inject  cocaine  over  the  nerves  on  each  side  of  a lame 
leg.  This  prevents  pain  and  makes  the  horse  go  sound  until  after  a sale  or 
trade  is  consummated. 

Frequently  they  have  a section  of  the  nerve  taken  out  and  this  perma- 
nently relieves  the  animal  of  pain  below  the  fetlock.  Sometimes  the  nerve  is 
severed  or  divided  above  the  knee  or  hock  and  this  relieves  lameness  below. 

Often  the  shoe  is  pulled  off  the  foot  of  lame  leg  to  deceive  the  buyer  into 
believing  that  the  lameness  was  caused  by  casting  a shoe  and  is  only  tem- 
porary. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Watch  closely  for  scars  or  needle  punctures,  espe- 
cially above  and  below  the  fetlock.  Be  suspicious  of  a lame  horse  that  has 
cast  a shoe. 

7.  Hiding  Spavins,  Ringbones  and  Sidebones. — Unscrupulous  horse 
dealers  frequently  make  wounds  or  skin  abrasions  over  a spavin,  ringbone  or 
sidebone,  or  they  bruise  the  parts  to  produce  local  swelling.  This  sometimes 
misleads  the  buyer  into  believing  that  the  horse  has  met  with  a recent  and 
trivial  injury  from  which  he  will  soon  recover. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Hesitate  to  buy  a horse  when  suffering  from  a wound 
or  skin  abrasion  in  the  localities  where  these  blemishes  are  found. 

8.  Putting  Harness  Galls  on  a Balky  Horse. — Gypsies  and  disreputable 
horse  traders  very  often  burn  sores  on  the  shoulders  and  disarrange  the  hair 
on  top  of  the  horse’s  neck  as  though  caused  by  a rdlar.  They  also  chafe  the 
horse’s  sides  as  though  done  by  the  harness.  This  is  done  to  make  the  inno- 
cent purchaser  believe  that  the  horse  received  these  scars  while  doing  hard 
work  in  the  harness  while  it  is  possible  that  the  horse  will  not  pull  a pound  in 
the  harness. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Insist  on  seeing  the  horse  work  and  pull  a heavy  load. 

9.  “ Doctoring  ” a Cribber. — To  conceal  the  fact  that  a horse  is  a cribber, 
horse  traders  sometimes  saw  between  the  incisor  teeth  or  drive  small  wedges 
between  them  or  make  the  mouth  sore  by  cutting  or  burning  the  gums.  The 
horse  is  not  likely  to  crib  while  his  mouth  is  very  sore. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Examine  the  mouth  and  incisor  teeth  very  carefully 
before  buying. 

10.  Winding  a Horse. — A common  trick  of  horse  traders  when  showing 
a broken  winded  horse  is  to  gallop  past  the  buyer,  then  go  slow  and  consume  as 
much  time  as  possible  in  turning.  This  allows  the  horse  to  catch  his  wind 
and  not  show  his  broken  wind  when  galloping  past  the  buyer.  Sometimes  the 
horse  is  made  to  appear  as  though  trying  to  run  away  and  thus  requiring  to 
be  held  in.  The  head  is  also  checked  high  and  the  nose  kept  poked  out  as 
much  as  possible. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Insist  on  the  horse  being  galloped  fast  for  a con- 
siderable distance  and  the  nose  pulled  well  into  the  breast. 

11.  “ Bishoping.” — For  nearly  a hundred  years  gypsies  and  dishonest 
horse  traders  have  been  known  to  ‘‘  Bishop  ” the  teeth,  thus  making  an  old 
horse  appear  young  to  the  casual  observer.  The  operation  consists  in  cutting 
cups  in  the  table  surface  and  staining  them  with  nitrate  of  silver,  thereby 
giving  the  old  tooth  the  appearance  of  a much  younger  one.  Special  tools 
are  made  for  this  purpose  and  it  is  astonishing  how  expert  some  of  the  horse 
traders  become  in  this  art. 


TRICKS  OF  FIORSE  TRADERS. 


269 


Caution  to  Buyer. — An  old  horse  seldom  has  the  appearance  of  a young 
one,  and  the  teeth  have  an  entirely  different  appearance.  The  difference  will 
readily  be  noticed  upon  comparison. 

12.  The  “ Stool-Pigeon  Swindler.” — In  all  large  cities,  it  is  common  prac- 
tice with  many  disreputable  horse  dealers  to  advertise  a horse  as  being  the 
property  of  Mrs.  Blank,  who  is  represented  to  the  customer  as  a widow.  She, 
of  course,  is  always  dressed  in  black  and  sheds  tears  with  ease  while  in  reality 
she  is  the  “ stool-pigeon  ” or  accomplice  of  the  swindler.  Various  misrepre- 
sentations are  made  and  after  the  swindle  is  discovered  by  the  purchaser  he 
is  either  unable  to  find  the  sellers  or  he  finds  them  to  be  irresponsible  parties 
from  whom  no  damages  can  be  collected.  I have  known  operators  of  this  kind 
to  rent  as  many  as  six  or  eight  barns  in  various  parts  of  the  city  and  advertise 
a horse  first  at  one  and  then  at  another. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Beware  of  “ stool-pigeons  ” and  widows  (when  buy- 
ing horses)  and  have  a doubt  in  your  mind  when  answering  advertisements 
of  this  kind.  Don’t  be  influenced  by  the  horse  stories  of  strangers  but  buy 
the  horse  on  its  merits. 

13.  Matching  a Fractious  Horse  with  a Lazy  One. — To  deceive  inno- 
cent purchasers,  dishonest  dealers  sometimes  dope  an  unmanageable  horse 
with  drugs  to  make  him  quiet  and  gentle.  Or,  sometimes  the  horse  is  walked 
or  driven,  before  shown  for  sale,  until  he  is  nearly  exhausted.  These  things 
are  also  done  to  match  a fractious  horse  with  a quiet,  lazy  one  and  make  them 
travel  well  together. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — In  matching  horses  never  decide  too  quickly  and  es- 
pecially if  the  animal  impresses  you  as  being  vicious  or  excitable  for  he  may 
have  been  “ fixed  ” to  deceive  you. 

14.  The  Straw  and  Stringhalt  Trick. — When  horses  show  stringhalt  the 
trader  very  often  accounts  for  it  by  saying  it  is  a habit  contracted  on  account 
of  being  bedded  deeply  in  rye  straw,  thus  obliging  the  horse  to  lift  his  feet 
high  while  walking  about  in  the  box  stall. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Don’t  accept  an  excuse  or  apology  for  an  ailment  of 
this  kind.  The  excuse  is  generally  made  of  “ straw.” 

15.  The  Dark  Trick. — Horse  traders  frequently  desire  to  dispose  of 
horses  that  are  suffering  from  moon  blindness  (periodic  ophthalmia)  and  this 
is  an  incurable  eye  defect  which  is  much  worse  at  some  times  than  others. 
These  horses  are  usually  disposed  of  in  the  evening  or  at  the  time  when  they 
show  the  defect  the  least. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Never  buy  a horse  in  the  dark.  Notice  that  both  eyes 
are  the  same  size,  and  that  the  lids  are  normal  and  the  eyeballs  transparent 
and  not  of  a bluish  color. 

16.  Stuffing  the  Ears. — The  ears  of  nervous  and  excitable  horses  are 
often  stuffed  with  cotton,  wool  or  oakum  to  render  the  animal  deaf  and  thus 
prevent  his  becoming  frightened  by  noise. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Always  examine  both  ears  closely. 

17.  The  Meaning  of  Many  Scars. — Scars  are  frequently  the  result  of  run- 
aways or  falling  during  a fit.  The  animal  may  be  unmanageable  or  subject  to 
blind  staggers  or  the  scars  may  have  been  produced  by  injuries  received  while 
rolling  and  tumbling  with  frequent  attacks  of  colic. 

Caution  to  Buyer. — Beware  of  a horse  with  many  scars  unless  you  know 
what  caused  them. 


GLOSSARY 


DICTIONARY  OF  MEDICAL  AND  VETERINARY  TERMS. 
Abate — To  diminish,  to  lessen. 

Abdomen — The  belly;  that  part  of  the  body  containing  the  stomach  and  in- 
testines. 

Abdominal — Pertaining  to  the  abdomen. 

Ablution — Washing;  cleansing  with  water. 

Abnormal — Unnatural,  irregular. 

Abortion — Expulsion  of  fetus  or  child  before  it  can  sustain  life. 

Abrasion — A wound  caused  by  rubbing  or  bruising  the  skin. 

Abscess — A collection  of  pus  in  some  tissue  or  organ  of  the  body. 

Absorbent — Anything  which  sucks  up  substances ; a medicine  which  takes 
up  acidity  from  the  bowels  and  stomach. 

Absorption — The  process  or  act  of  absorbing  or  sucking  in ; condition  of  being 
absorbed  or  sucked  in. 

Accoucheur — A man  who  attends  mothers  during  childbirth. 

Acetabulum — The  cup  or  socket  that  receives  the  head  of  the  thigh  bone. 
Acholia — Not  a sufficiency  of  bile. 

Acid — Sour,  pungent,  sharp  or  biting  to  the  taste. 

Acidity — Sourness. 

Acme — The  top ; the  highest  point. 

Acrid — Pungent,  bitter,  irritating. 

Actual  Cautery — Searing  or  burning  with  a hot  iron ; used  in  surgery. 
Acupuncture — Pricking  with  needles ; one  of  the  surgical  operations. 

Acute — Severe,  sharp ; the  reverse  of  chronic ; coming  quickly  to  a crisis. 
Adhesion — Act  of  sticking ; union  or  sticking  of  surfaces. 

Adhesive — Sticky,  uniting,  tending  to  adhere. 

Adhesive  Plaster — Sticking  plaster. 

Adipose — Fatty. 

Adjuvant — A medicine  put  into  a prescription  to  assist  the  action  of  the  other 
medicines. 

Adult — A person  or  animal  that  has  attained  full  growth. 

Adventitious — Accidental ; acquired,  as  diseases. 

Affection — Disease,  sickness,  disorder,  malady. 

Affusion — The  action  of  pouring  a liquid  upon  any  body. 

Albumen — The  white  of  an  egg ; an  element  found  in  both  vegetable  and  ani- 
mal substances. 

Albuminoid — Of  the  nature  of  albumen. 

Albuminose — A substance  produced  in  the  stomach  during  the  act  of  digestion. 
Aliment — Any  kind  of  food  or  nourishment. 

Alimentary  Canal — The  canal  extending  from  the  mouth  to  the  anus  and  in- 
cluding the  gullet,  stomach  and  intestines. 

Alkali — A substance  like  soda  or  potash  that  neutralizes  or  destroys  acids. 

270 


DR.  FAIR'S  BOYHOOD  HOME  IN  CANADA. 
(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


DR.  FAIR’S  EUCLID  AVENUE  HOME  IN  CLEVIH.AND,  OHIO. 
(Photographed  especially  for  this  book.) 


GLOSSARY. 


271 


Alterative — A medicine  that  gradually  induces  a change  or  restores  healthy 
action. 

Alveolar  Processes — That  part  of  the  jaw  which  contains  the  sockets  of  the 
teeth. 

Alveole — A tooth  socket. 

Alvine — Relating  to  the  intestines. 

Amaurosis — A loss  of  sight  produced  by  various  causes. 

Amenorrhea — Absence,  retention,  or  suppression  of  the  menses. 

Amnion — A membrane  enclosing  the  fetus  and  the  liquid. 

Amniotic  Liquid — The  fluid  surrounding  the  fetus. 

Amputation — The  act  of  cutting  off  a part  of  the  body,  as  a limb. 

Amylaceous — Containing  starch. 

Amyloids — Foods  such  as  sugar  and  starch  which  are  composed  of  carbon 
and  hydrogen. 

Analysis — The  resolving  of  a thing  into  its  component  parts. 

Anastomosis — Communication  between  two  vessels ; applied  to  arteries  and 
veins. 

Anasarca — General  dropsy ; dropsy  of  the  whole  body. 

Anatomy — The  science  or  study  of  the  structure  of  the  body. 

Anemia  or  Anaemia — A condition  in  which  the  blood  is  lacking  in  quantity 
and  quality. 

Anesthesia — Numbness  or  paralysis  of  sensation. 

Anesthetic — A medicine  that  takes  away  sensation  or  produces  insensibility 
to  pain. 

Aneurism — A soft  tumor  caused  by  rupturing  the  coats  of  an  artery. 

Angina  Pectoris — Breast  pang ; neuralgia  of  the  heart. 

Animalcule — An  animal  so  small  as  to  be  invisible  to  the  naked  eye. 
Anodyne — A medicine  which  relieves  pain  and  induces  sleep. 

Anomaly — Irregularity ; deviation  from  the  general  rule. 

Antacid — A substance  that  counteracts  acids ; alkalies  are  examples. 
Antaphrodisiac — A medicine  which  tends  to  cool  the  animal  passions. 
Anthelmintic — A medicine  that  destroys  worms  or  expels  them  from  the  stom- 
ach and  bowels. 

Anthrax — A reddish  or  purplish  tumor  occurring  in  the  neck. 

Antibilious — That  which  counteracts  biliousness. 

Antidote — A remedy  which  counteracts  the  effects  of  poisons  or  disease. 
Antidysenteric — A remedy  for  dysentery. 

Anti-emetic — That  which  will  check  vomiting. 

Antilithic — A medicine  which  will  prevent  or  remove  gravel  or  urinary  calculi. 
Antimorbific — Anything  which  will  prevent  or  destroy  disease. 

Antiperiodic — A remedy  for  periodical  diseases  such  as  ague  or  intermittent 
fever. 

Antiscorbutic — A remedy  for  scurvy ; a blood  purifier. 

Antiseptic — That  which  prevents  or  resists  putrefaction. 

Antispasmodic — A remedy  which  relieves  cramps,  spasms  or  convulsions. 
Antisyphilitic — A remedy  for  syphilis. 

Anus — The  outer  opening  of  the  rectum  or  lower  bowel. 

Aorta — The  large  artery  which  carries  the  blood  to  all  parts  of  the  body  ex- 
cept the  lungs. 

Apathy — Insensibility  to  pain. 

Aperient — A mild  laxative ; a medicine  which  moves  the  bowels  gently. 


272 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Aphthous — Pertaining  to  sore  mouth. 

Apnea — Absence  of  breathing. 

Apoplexy — Rush  of  blood  to  an  organ 

Apparatus — A set  of  implements  or  organs  for  some  special  use. 

Appetite — Desire  for  food  or  drink. 

Aqueous — Watery. 

Arachnoid — A thin  membrane  covering  the  brain. 

Areola — The  colored  circle  which  surrounds  the  nipples  or  surrounds  sores. 
Areolar  Tissue — A network  of  delicate  fibres  spread  over  the  body. 

Aroma — An  intense  or  agreeable  perfume  or  odor. 

Aromatic — Fragrant  or  spicy  drugs. 

Artery — A vessel  which  carries  the  blood  from  the  heart  to  the  organs. 
Arthritic — Relating  to  inflammation  of  the  joints. 

Arthrodia — A joint  movable  in  all  directions. 

Articulate — To  join  together. 

Articulated — Jointed;  having  joints. 

Articulation — A union,  as  of  the  bones  with  each  other  at  the  joints. 

Ascarides — Pin  worms  found  in  the  lower  part  of  the  bowels. 

Ascites — Dropsy  of  the  abdomen. 

Asphyxia — Apparent  death  as  from  drowning  or  smothering. 

Aspirate — To  breathe  roughly. 

Assimilation — The  process  of  changing  the  nutriment  of  the  food  into  tissue. 
Asthenia — Weakness. 

Asthenic — Debilitated. 

Asthmatic — Subject  to  asthma. 

Astringent — A medicine  which  contracts  or  puckers  the  flesh. 

Atony — Defect  of  muscular  power;  debility 
Atrophy — A wasting  of  flesh  and  strength. 

Attenuants — Medicines  which  reduce  the  weight  of  the  body. 

Attenuate — To  make  thin. 

Auditory — Relating  to  hearing. 

Auricle — A cavity  of  the  heart;  also,  the  outer  ear. 

Auscultation — The  art  of  diagnosing  or  determining  a disease  by  listening  to 
the  sounds  of  the  heart,  lungs,  etc. 

Autopsy — Examination  of  a corpse. 

Axilla — The  armpit. 

Axillary — Pertaining  to  the  armpit. 

Balsamic — A medicine  which  has  healing  properties. 

Benign — Kind,  gentle,  mild. 

Bifurcation — Branching  into  two  parts. 

Bile — Gall.  A bitter  and  yellowish  or  greenish  fluid  secreted  by  the  liver  and 
which  aids  digestion. 

Biliary — Belonging  to  or  containing  bile. 

Bilious — Having  too  much  bile. 

Biology — The  science  of  life. 

Bisect — To  divide  into  two  equal  parts. 

Bistoury — A small  cutting  knife. 

Blister — A thin  bladder  on  the  skin  and  containing  a watery  fluid. 

Blood  Serum — The  yellow  fluid  which  remains  after  the  blood  has  coagulated 
Bolus — A large  pill. 

Bougie — A tapering  body  inserted  in  a passage  to  keep  it  open  or  to  enlarge  it. 


GLOSSARY.  . 


273 


Bronchia — A branch  of  the  windpipe. 

Bronchial — Belonging  to  the  divisions  of  the  windpipe. 

Bronchitis — Inflammation  of  the  bronchial  tubes. 

Cachexia — A bad  condition  of  the  system. 

Caecum — The  blind  gut. 

Calcareous — Containing  lime. 

Calcification — The  process  of  changing  into  a calcareous  substance  such  as 
chalk. 

Calculus — Stone  or  gravel  found  in  the  bladder  or  kidneys. 

Calisthenics — Light  gymnastics. 

Callus — A hard  deposit. 

Callous — Hard  or  firm. 

Caloric — Heat. 

Canthrus — The  corner  of  the  eye. 

Capillary — Fine,  hair-like ; a very  small  blood  vessel. 

Capsicum — Cayenne  pepper. 

Capsule — A gelatinous  case  for  enclosing  a dose  of  unpleasant  medicine ; also, 
a membranous  bag  enclosing  an  organ. 

Carbonic  Acid  Gas — A gas  containing  one  part  of  carbon  and  two  parts  of 
oxygen. 

Cardiac — Relating  to  the  heart.  • 

Caries — Ulceration  of  a bone. 

Carminative — A medicine  which  expels  wind  or  gas  from  the  stomach  and 
bowels. 

Carotids — The  large  arteries  of  the  neck  which  convey  blood  to  the  heart. 
Carpus — The  wrist. 

Cartilage — Gristle. 

Casein — That  part  of  milk  that  contains  nitrogen. 

Castrate — To  remove  the  testicles  or  ovaries. 

Catalysis — Paralysis. 

Catamenia — The  monthly  discharges. 

Cataplasm — A poultice. 

Catarrh — Chronic  inflammation  of  a mucous  membrane. 

Cathartic — A medicine  which  opens  the  bowels  freely ; a purgative. 

Catheter — A hollow  tube  used  for  drawing  off  the  urine. 

Caustic — A substance  which  burns  or  destroys  living  tissues. 

Cauterize — To  apply  caustic;  to  burn  living  tissue. 

Cautery — A searing  or  burning  of  any  part  of  the  body. 

Cell — A small  elementary  form  in  vegetable  or  animal  tissue. 

Cellular — Composed  of  cells. 

Cephalic — Pertaining  to  the  head. 

Cerebellum — The  lower  and  back  part  of  the  brain ; the  small  brain. 

Cerebral — Pertaining  to  the  brain. 

Cerebrum — The  upper  and  front  part  of  the  brain;  the  large  brain. 
Cerebro-Spinal — Pertaining  to  the  spinal  cord  and  brain. 

Cerumen — A wax-like  secretion ; the  wax  of  the  ear. 

Cervical — Pertaining  to  the  neck. 

Cervix — The  neck;  the  neck  of  the  womb. 

Cesspool — A privy. 

Chalybeate — Containing  iron  in  solution. 

3—18 


274 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Chancre-^A  venereal  sore ; the  sore  of  syphilis. 

Cholagogue — A medicine  w^hich  causes  an  increased  flow  of  bile. 

Choleric — Pertaining  to  bile;  irritable. 

Chordee — A painful  drawing  of  the  chords  of  the  penis  occurring  in  gonorrhea. 
Chronic — Of  long  duration  and  becoming  a fixed  condition  of  the  system. 
Chyle  — The  milky  fluid  formed  from  food  by  digestion. 

Chyme — The  pulp  formed  from  food  after  it  has  mixed  with  the  gastric  juice. 
Cicatrize — To  heal  or  induce  the  formation  of  a scar. 

Cilia — Small  hairs. 

Circulation — The  motion  of  the  blood  which  is  forced  through  the  body  by 
the  heart. 

Clavicle — The  collar  bone. 

Climacteric — The  climacteric  periods  are  puberty  and  the  change  of  life. 
Clinical — Pertaining  to  the  bed. 

Clonic — Convulsive,  irregular. 

Clyster — An  enema  or  liquid  injection  into  the  bowels. 

Coagulate — To  thicken  or  harden;  to  change  from  a liquid  to  a solid  state. 
Coalesce — To  unite;  to  adhere;  to  grow  together. 

Coition — Sexual  intercourse. 

Coffin-Bone — The  lower  bone  of  an  animal’s  leg  encased  in  the  hoof. 

Colic — A painful  disorder  of  the  bowels. 

Collapse — A sudden  and  complete  breaking  down;  a sudden  failure  or  pros- 
tration of  the  vital  functions. 

Colliquative — Excessive  sweats  and  discharges  which  weaken  the  body, 
Collyrium — A medicine  applied  to  the  eye. 

Colon — A portion  of  the  large  intestines. 

Coma — Stupor ; a condition  of  profound  and  unconscious  sleep. 

Comatose — In  a state  of  coma  or  stupor. 

Combustion — Burning. 

Compress — A bandage  made  with  several  folds  of  cloth. 

Conception — The  beginning  of  pregnancy. 

Concretion — A hardened  mass  made  up  of  gathered  particles. 

Concussion — A violent  shock. 

Condiment — An  article  used  to  make  food  more  savory  or  palatable. 
Condyle — A prominence  of  the  joints. 

Confluent — Running  together. 

Congenital — Born  with ; belonging  to  from  birth. 

Congestion — An  accumulation  of  blood  in  a part. 

Conjunctiva — The  mucous  membrane  which  covers  the  eye  and  lines  the  eye- 
lid. 

Conjunctivitis — An  inflammation  of  the  conjunctiva,  or  membrane  of  the  eye. 
Constipation — Costiveness. 

Constriction— A narrowing  or  contraction. 

Contagion — A disease  which  may  be  communicated  by  contact. 

Contagious — Catching;  may  be  transmitted  by  contact. 

Contamination — Pollution. 

Contusion — A bruise. 

Convalescence — Period  of  getting  well ; improvement  after  sickness. 
Convoluted — Curved  or  rolled  together. 

Convulsions — Violent  and  involuntary  movements  of  the  body. 

Copulation — Sexual  intercourse. 


GLOSSARY. 


275 


Cordial^ — A stimulating  medicine  or  one  that  raises  the  spirits. 

Coriaceous — Tough  and  elastic;  leather-like. 

Corium — A layer  of  skin. 

Cornea — A transparent  covering  in  the  front  of  the  eye. 

Corrective — A substance  put  into  medicine  to  modify  its  action. 
Corroborant — A tonic  or  strengthening  medicine. 

Corrosive — A substance  that  consumes  or  eats  away  living  tissue. 

Cosmetic — A substance  used  to  beautify  the  skin. 

Costiveness — Constipation. 

Counter-irritant — A medicine  which  relieves  irritation  in  one  part  of  the 
body  by  increasing  it  in  another  part. 

Cranium — The  skull. 

Cranial— Pertaining  to  the  skull. 

Crassamentum — The  thick  part  of  the  blood. 

Crepitas — Abrupt,  harsh  sounds. 

Crisis — The  turning  point  of  a disease. 

Crucial — Like  a cross. 

Crural — Belonging  to  the  leg. 

Crustaceous — Having  a crust-like  shell. 

Cul-de-sac — A passage  closed  at  one  end. 

Cutaneous — Pertaining  to  the  skin. 

Cuticle — The  outer  or  scarf  skin. 

Cyst — A sac  or  pouch. 

Cystitis — Inflammation  of  the  bladder. 

Debility — W eakness. 

Debris — Broken  or  detached  fragments. 

Decarbonize — To  free  from  carbon. 

Decoction — Medicine  that  is  prepared  by  boiling  some  substance  in  water. 
Decomposition — Decay. 

Defecation — The  passing  or  voiding  of  excrement  from  the  bod}^ 

Degenerate — To  grow  worse  or  inferior. 

Deglutition — The  act  of  swallowing. 

Dejection — Fecal  matter  discharged  from  the  bowels. 

Deleterious — Poisonous,  destructive. 

Deliquium — The  act  of  fainting. 

Delirium — Temporary  loss  of  mind;  wildness. 

Demulcent — A mucilaginous  medicine  which  removes  the  pain  of  diseased  or 
wounded  parts. 

Dentition — Teething. 

Dentifrice — A preparation  for  cleaning  the  teeth. 

Deobstruent — A mild  laxative. 

Deodorizer — A substance  that  destroys  bad  odors. 

Depletion — The  act  of  emptying. 

Depravation — Corruption. 

Depuration — Cleansing  from  impurities. 

Dermal — Pertaining  to  the  skin. 

Dermatologist — A specialist  in  skin  diseases. 

Desiccate — To  become  dry. 

Desquamation — Scaling. 

Detergent — A cleansing  medicine. 


S76 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Determination — Strong  direction  toward  some  point. 

Diabetes — A disease  in  which  there  is  an  unusually  large  flow  of  urine. 
Diagnosis — The  act  of  determining  diseases  by  the  symptoms. 

Diaphoretic — A medicine  which  increases  sweating. 

Diaphragm — The  muscular  partition  between  the  cavity  of  the  chest  and  the 
cavity  of  the  abdomen. 

Diathesis — Disposition  of  the  system ; tendency  of  the  body  toward  any  dis- 
ease; peculiarity  of  constitution. 

Dietetic — Relating  to  diet. 

Dilatation — Enlargement ; the  act  of  dilating. 

Diluent — A liquid  used  to  dilute  or  weaken  a medicine;  a medicine  which 
thins  the  blood. 

Diluting — Weakening. 

Discutient — A medicine  for  driving  away  or  scattering  swellings  and  tumors. 
Disinfect — To  purify  or  free  from  infectious  matter. 

Disinfectant — A substance  which  destroys  germs;  an  article  which  purifies 
infected  places. 

Dislocation — Throwing  out  of  natural  position ; a bone  out  of  its  socket. 
Distention — An  expanding  and  stretching. 

Distillation — The  process  of  changing  liquor  to  vapor  and  then  to  its  first 
form. 

Diuresis — Excretion  of  the  urine. 

Diuretic — A medicine  that  increases  the  flow  of  urine. 

Domestic — Belonging  to  the  home. 

Dorsal — Pertaining  to  the  back. 

Douche — Dashes  or  injections  of  water. 

Drastic — A medicine  which  acts  powerfully. 

Dropsy — An  unnatural  accumulation  of  fluid  in  the  body. 

Duct — A vessel  or  tube  for  conveying  fluid. 

Duodenum — The  first  portion  of  the  small  intestines. 

Dura  Mater — A thick  membrane  lining  the  cavity  of  the  skull. 

Dyscrasia — ^A  bad  habit,  generally  producing  a diseased  condition  of  the 
system. 

Dyspepsia — Difficult  of  digestion. 

Dysphagia — Difficulty  of  swallowing. 

Dyspnea  or  Dyspnoea — Difficulty  of  breathing. 

Dysuria — Difficulty  and  pain  in  passing  urine. 

Ebullition — The  motion  of  liquid  when  it  is  giving  of¥  bubbles  of  vapor. 
Ecchymoma — An  effusion  of  blood  into  the  cellular  tissue  under  the  skin. 
Ecchymosis — A black  or  yellowish  spot  produced  by  effused  blood. 

Ecraseur — An  instrument  used  for  castration! 

Ecstasy — Great  excitement ; loss  of  mental  control. 

Eczematous — Of  the  nature  of  eczema. 

Edema — A swelling  filled  with  fluid. 

Effervesce — To  foam,  as  soda  water. 

Effete — Exhausted  ; worn  out. 

Efflorescence — Redness  of  the  surface  as  in  measles. 

Effluvium — An  unpleasant  odor  or  exhalation  from  decaying  matter. 

Effusion — The  pouring  out  of  fluids  from  their  natural  position  into  the  tissues 
or  cavities  of  the  body. 


GLOSSARY. 


277 


Elasticity — The  property  of  matter  or  a body  by  which  it  tends  to  resume 
its  original  form  after  the  removal  of  external  pressure  or  force. 
Electrization — Medical  use  of  electricity. 

Electuary — A medicine  prepared  with  honey  or  syrup. 

Eliminate — To  throw  out;  to  expel;  to  discharge. 

Emaciate — To  grow  thin ; to  waste  away. 

Embryo — The  germ  of  an  animal  at  the  beginning  of  its  development  in  the 
womb. 

Emesis — Vomiting. 

Emetic — A medicine  which  produces  vomiting. 

Emmenagogue — A medicine  which  will  promote  the  menstrual  flow. 
Emollient — A softening  or  relaxing  medicine  like  flaxseed. 

Emphysema — A swelling  caused  by  air  in  the  tissues. 

Empirical — Wanting  in  science;  depending  upon  experiment. 

Empyema — A collection  of  pus,  blood,  etc. 

Emulsion — A milky  mixture  containing  water,  oil  and  mucilage. 

Enamel — The  outer  covering  of  the  teeth. 

Encephalon — The  whole  brain. 

Encysted — Enclosed  in  a sac  or  cyst. 

Endemic — A disease  peculiar  to  a certain  people  or  locality. 

Endermically — Through  the  skin. 

Endocarditis — Inflammation  of  the  lining  membrane  of  the  heart. 
Endocardium — The  lining  membrane  of  the  heart. 

Enema — An  injection  into  the  rectum. 

Enervation — A reduction  of  strength. 

Engorgement — Over-fullness  or  obstruction  of  a vessel. 

Enteric — Pertaining  to  the  intestines. 

Enteritis — Inflammation  of  the  intestines. 

Ephemera — A fever  lasting  but  a day. 

Ephemeral — Of  short  duration. 

Epidemic — A disease  attacking  a number  of  persons  or  animals  in  a locality 
at  the  same  time. 

Epidermis — The  cuticle ; the  outer  skin. 

Epigastrium — The  upper  part  of  the  abdomen. 

Epiglottis — A cap  over  the  windpipe  which  prevents  the  entrance  of  food  or 
drink. 

Epileptic — Subject  to  epilepsy  or  convulsions. 

Epiphora — A surplus  secretion  of  tears. 

Epispastic — An  external  application  to  the  skin. 

Epistaxis — Nose  bleed. 

Epithelium — The  layer  of  cells  which  covers  many  of  the  membranes  of  the 
body. 

Erethism — Morbid  energetic  action  of  irritability. 

Erosion — An  eating  or  wearing  away. 

Errhine — A medicine  to  promote  the  discharge  from  the  nose. 

Eructation — Belching. 

Eruption — A breaking  out ; a rash  on  the  skin. 

Erysipelatous — Pertaining  to  erysipelas. 

Erythematic — Causing  a morbid  redness  of  the  skin. 

Eschar — The  scurf;  the  dead  part  which  falls  from  the  surface. 

Escharotic — An  application  which,  destroys  the  flesh. 


278 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Esophagus — The  gullet ; the  tube  which  conveys  food  to  the  stomach. 
Etiology — That  branch  of  medicine  which  treats  of  the  cause  of  disease. 
Eustachian  Tube — A small  tube  leading  from  the  throat  to  the  ear. 

Evacuant — Cathartic. 

Evacuation — Movement  of  the  bowels  or  passing  of  urine. 

Exacerbation — Violent  increase  in  a disease. 

Exanthema — An  eruptive  disease  like  scarlet  fever  or  small-pox. 

Excision — The  act  of  cutting  out  or  off. 

Excitant — A stimulant;  a medicine  which  arouses  vital  activity. 

Excoriate — To  wear  off  the  skin  in  any  way. 

Excrement — Refuse  matter;  matter  ejected  from  the  bowels. 

Excrescence — An  unnatural  growth  like  a wart  or  bunion. 

Excretion — Excrement ; that  which  is  thrown  off. 

Exfoliate— Peeling  or  scaling  off. 

Exhalation — A breathing  out  or  throwing  out  of  vapor,  gas,  air,  etc.;  also 
that  which  is  thus  thrown  off. 

Exostosis — An  unnatural  growth  from  a bone. 

Expectorant — A medicine  which  promotes  the  discharge  from  the  lungs  or 
throat. 

Expectorate — To  spit  or  cough  up  mucus  or  saliva. 

Expiration — A breathing  out. 

Extraneous — Foreign  ; from  without. 

Extravasation — The  act  of  forcing  a fluid  out  of  its  proper  channels ; a blood 
blister. 

Extremities — The  arms  and  legs. 

Exudation — A discharge,  as  of  sweat ; sweating. 

Exude — To  sweat;  to  ooze  out. 

Facial — Relating  to  the  face. 

Faecal  or  Fecal — Relating  to  the  feces. 

Faeces  or  Feces — The  discharges  of  the  bowels ; the  excrement. 

Fallopian  Tubes — The  canals  through  which  the  ovum  passes  from  the  ovaries 
to  the  womb. 

Farinaceous — Containing  starch. 

Farcy — Acute  glanders. 

Fascia — The  layer  of  connective  tissue  covering  all  muscles. 

Fauces — The  pharynx  and  back  part  of  mouth. 

Feces — (See  faeces). 

Febrifuge — A medicine  which  reduces  fever. 

Febrile — Pertaining  to  fever;  feverish. 

Feculent — Foul  from  dregs  or  sediment. 

Fecundation — The  uniting  of  the  ovum  with  the  male  germ. 

Femur — The  thigh  bone. 

Fermented — Changed  by  decomposition. 

Ferruginous — Containing  or  made  of  iron. 

Fetid — Having  a disagreeable  or  offensive  odor. 

Fetor — An  offensive  smell. 

Fetus  or  Foetus — The  unborn  child  or  animal  in  the  womb. 

Fibrine — Animal  matter  found  in  blood. 

Fibrous — Composed  of  small  fibres  or  threads. 

Fibula — The  smaller  of  the  bones  between  the  ankle  and  knee. 


GLOSSARY. 


279 


Filter — To  strain  through  paper  or  other  substance  made  for  that  purpose. 
Filtration — Straining ; the  act  of  passing  through  a filter. 

Fistula — An  ulcer ; a deep  narrow  abscess. 

Fistulous — Hollow  like  a tube. 

Flaccid — Soft,  flabby,  relaxed. 

Flatulency — The  state  of  being  inflated  with  gas ; having  wind  on  the  stomach. 
Flatulent — Generating  wind  in  the  stomach  and  intestines. 

Flatus — Wind  generated  in  the  stomach. 

Flexible — Capable  of  being  bent. 

Flexor — A bender ; as  a muscle  that  bends  a limb  or  other  part. 

Flooding — Uterine  hemorrhage. 

Flush — A flow  of  blood  to  the  face ; to  cleanse  by  a sudden  wash  of  water. 
Flux — Flow;  diarrhea;  an  unusual  discharge  from  the  bowels. 

Foetus  or  Fetus — The  unborn  child  or  animal  in  the  womb. 

Follicle — A gland;  a small  depression  in  the  skin. 

Fomentation — External  application  by  means  of  cloths  dipped  in  water  or 
medicine. 

Foramen — A perforation ; a small  opening. 

Forceps — An  instrument  having  two  blades  and  used  for  grasping  bodies 
firmly. 

Formication — A creeping  sensation. 

Formula — A medical  prescription. 

Fracture — A broken  bone. 

Friction — Irritation  by  rubbing. 

Fumigate — To  apply  vapor  or  smoke. 

Function — A particular  duty  or  use. 

Fundament — The  anus ; the  outer  opening  of  the  bowel. 

Fundus — The  base  or  bottom  of  any  hollow  organ. 

Fungus — A spongy  growth,  as  proud  flesh. 

Galvanism — Current  electricity. 

Galvanization — The  application  of  the  galvanic  current. 

Ganglion — A knot  or  lump  of  tendons ; an  enlargement  of  nerves. 

Gangrene — Death  or  mortification  of  a part  of  the  body. 

Gargle — A wash  for  the  mouth  or  throat. 

Gastric — Pertaining  to  the  stomach. 

Gastric  Juice — A juice  secreted  by  the  stomach. 

Gastritis — Inflammation  of  the  stomach. 

Gelatinous — Jelly-like. 

Generation — Reproduction  ; the  process  or  act  of  begetting. 

Genitals — The  sexual  or  reproductive  organs. 

Gestation — The  period  of  pregnancy. 

Gland — A cell  or  collection  of  cells  the  function  of  which  is  to  secrete  some 
fluid. 

Glandular — Gland-like ; pertaining  to  the  glands. 

Gians — The  head  of  the  penis. 

Glottis — The  upper  part  of  the  windpipe. 

Gluteus — A name  applied  to  the  muscles  of  the  hip. 

Glutinous — Containing  or  resembling  glue. 

Granular — Made  up  of  or  resembling  grains. 

Granulation — Healing  of  a wound  or  ulcer  with  healthy  matter. 


280 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Granules — Small  grains. 

Groin — The  arch;  the  oblique  depression  between  abdomen  and  thigh. 
Grumous — Clotted,  thick. 

Guttural — Pertaining  to  the  throat. 

Habit — A peculiar  temperament  or  state  of  the  body;  a predisposition  to  do 
a particular  thing. 

Habitat — The  usual  abode  of  an  animal. 

Haemal — Relating  to  blood. 

Haematein — The  coloring  matter  in  the  blood. 

Hair-bulb — The  enlargement  at  the  root  of  a hair. 

Hallucination — A disorder  of  the  mind  in  which  the  patient  imagines  he  sees 
things  which  do  not  exist. 

Haunch — The  upper  part  of  the  thigh ; the  hip. 

Hectic — A remitting  fever  or  fever  of  advanced  disease. 

Hemalemes — Hemorrhage  from  the  stomach. 

Hematosis — A morbid  or  excessive  quantity  of  blood. 

Hematura — Hemorrhage  from  the  bladder. 

Hemiplegia — Paralysis  affecting  but  one  side  of  the  body. 

Hemoptysis — A spitting  of  blood. 

Hemorrhage — Bleeding;  a discharge  of  blood. 

Hemorrhoids — Piles  ; bleeding  piles. 

Hemorrhoidal  Veins — The  veins  about  the  rectum  which  cause  piles  when 
they  become  enlarged. 

Hepatic — Pertaining  to  the  liver. 

Herbaceous — Pertaining  to  herbs  as  an  animal  which  eats  herbs. 

Hereditary — Transmitted  from  parent  to  offspring. 

Hernia — A rupture  or  protrusion  of  the  bowels. 

Herpes — A skin  disease. 

Humors — The  fluids  of  the  body  excepting  the  blood. 

Humerus — The  upper  bone  of  the  arm  or  foreleg. 

Hydragogue — A medicine  which  produces  a watery  discharge  from  the  bowels. 
Hydrargyrum — Quicksilver ; calomel. 

Hydrogen — An  elementary  principle  forming  a ninth  part  of  water. 
Hydrophobia — Rabies,  madness. 

Hydrothorax — Dropsy  of  the  chest. 

Hygiene — That  part  of  science  which  treats  of  the  preservation  of  health. 
Hymen — The  membrane  covering  the  mouth  of  the  vagina. 

Hyperaemia — A congestion  of  blood  in  an  organ  or  part  of  the  body. 
Hyperesthesia — A state  of  exalted  sensibility  of  a part  of  the  body. 
Hypertrophy— Enlargement ; excessive  development. 

Hypnotic — Possessing  the  quality  of  producing  sleep. 

Hypochondriacal — Low-spirited,  melancholy. 

Hypodermic — Under  the  skin. 

Hypogastrium — The  lower  part  of  the  abdq;men. 

Hysterical — Nervous;  subject  to  hysteria. 

Ichor — A watery  discharge  as  from  ulcers. 

Idiopathy — A primary  disease  which  does  not  depend  on  any  other  disease. 
Idiosyncrasy — A peculiarity  of  temperament  or  constitution. 

Ileous — Colic  of  the  small  intestines. 


GLOSSARY. 


281 


‘Ileum — A portion  of  the  small  intestine. 

Iliac  Region — Region  of  the  small  intestines. 

Illuminant — That  which  affords  light. 

Imbecility — Weakness  of  the  mind. 

Immerse — To  put  under  water. 

Imperforate — Without  a natural  opening. 

Impregnation — The  uniting  of  the  female  with  the  male  germ-cell. 

Impotence — Want  of  power. 

Impurity — That  which  is  foul  and  impure. 

Inanition — Emptiness,  weakness,  exhaustion. 

Incision — The  act  of  cutting. 

Incisor — A front  tooth. 

Incontinence — Inability  to  hold ; want  of  self-restraint. 

Incorporate — To  mix. 

Incubation — The  maturing  or  development  of  a contagious  disease ; hatching. 
Incubus — The  nightmare. 

Indigenous — N ative. 

Indigestible — Not  easily  digested. 

Indisposition — A poor  state  of  health. 

Induration — The  act  of  hardening. 

Infection — The  communication  of  disease. 

Infectious — Contagious. 

Inflammation — A redness  or  swelling  of  any  part;  attended  with  heat. 

Inflate — To  swell  up. 

Infusion — A medicine  prepared  by  steeping,  not  boiling;  a tea. 

Ingestion — Forcing  into  the  stomach. 

Inguinal — Pertaining  to  the  groin. 

Inhalation — The  act  of  breathing  in  or  drawing  into  the  lungs. 

Inhale — To  draw  into  the  lungs ; to  breathe  in. 

Injection — A preparation  thrown  into  the  body  by  the  means  of  a syringe. 
Inoculation — Communication  of  a disease  to  a healthy  person  or  animal  by 
inserting  contagious  matter  under  the  skin. 

Inorganic — Without  the  organs  necessary  for  life  as  a mineral. 

Insalivation — The  mixing  of  the  food  with  saliva  when  eating. 

Insemination — The  emission  of  sperm  in  sexual  intercourse. 

Interstice — A small  space  between  the  particles  of  a body. 

Insomnia — Sleeplessness. 

Inspiration — Breathing  in. 

Inspissation — The  act  of  thickening  by  boiling  or  evaporation. 

Integument — The  skin  ; a covering. 

Intercostal — Between  the  ribs. 

Intermittent — Ceasing  at  intervals. 

Intestines — The  bowels. 

Intra — Within. 

Intussusception— Telescoping ; the  slipping  of  one  tube  into  another.* 

Iris — The  curtain  which  gives  the  eye  its  color. 

Irrigate — To  wash  out. 

Jejunum — The  middle  division  of  the  small  intestine. 

Jugular — Applied  to  the  veins  of  the  throat 


2S2 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Labia — Lips. 

Lacerated — Torn. 

Lachrymal — Pertaining  to  tears. 

Lactation — The  act  of  milking  or  sucking;  nursing. 

Lacteals — Vessels  conveying  milk  or  chyle. 

Lamella — A thin  plate  or  scale. 

Laminal — Having  the  form  of  a thin  plate  or  scale. 

Lancinating — Piercing  as  with  a sharp  instrument;  often  applied  to  piercing 
pains. 

Languor — Lassitude,  feebleness. 

Larva — An  insect  in  its  early  form  after  leaving  the  egg. 

Laryngitis — Inflammation  of  the  larynx. 

Laryngoscope — An  instrument  for  viewing  the  larynx. 

Laryngotomy — The  operation  of  cutting  the  larynx. 

Larynx — The  upper  part  of  the  windpipe. 

Lateral — Sidewise. 

Laxative — A medicine  that  loosens  the  bowels ; a mild  cathartic. 

Lesion — A hurt  or  injury. 

Lethargy — Drowsiness,  heaviness. 

Leucorrhea — A discharge  from  the  womb. 

Lienteric — rPertaining  to  a certain  form  of  diarrhea. 

Ligament — The  strong  structure  which  binds  the  bones  together. 

Ligation — The  art  of  using  a ligature. 

Ligature — A cord  for  tying  blood-vessels. 

Linctus — A soothing  cough  remedy. 

Liniment — A fluid  wash  for  bruises,  etc. 

Lithontripic — A medicine  to  dissolve  gravel  or  stone  in  the  bladder. 
Lithotomy — The  operation  of  cutting  for  the  purpose  of  removing  stone  from 
the  bladder. 

Lithotrity — The  crushing  operation  for  stone  in  the  bladder. 

Livid — Black  and  blue. 

Lobe — A round  projecting  part  of  an  organ. 

Lochia — The  evacuations  from  the  womb  and  vagina  after  childbirth. 

Loin — The  part  of  the  back  wall  of  the  abdomen  between  the  pelvis  and  chest. 
Lumbago — Rheumatic  pains  in  the  small  of  the  back  and  loins. 

Lumbar — Pertaining  to  the  loins. 

Lymph — A colorless  fluid  in  the  lymphatic  vessels. 

Lymphatic — Absorbents ; vein-like  vessels  pervading  the  body. 

Macerate — To  steep  almost  to  solution. 

Macular — Blemishes;  colored  spots. 

Malady — Disease. 

Malar — Pertaining  to  the  cheek  bone. 

Malaria — Bad  air  causing  disease. 

Malarial — Pertaining  to  malaria. 

Malformation — Irregular  in  formation  or  structure. 

Malignant — Dangerous ; liable  to  cause  death. 

Malleolus — A projection  of  the  ankle  bone. 

Mamma — The  breast  of  the  female. 

Mammalia — Animals  that  suckle  their  young. 

Mania — Violent  derangement  of  the  mind. 


GLOSSARY. 


283 


Manipulation — Examination  by  the  hand. 

Marrow — A soft  substance  in  the  bones. 

Massage — Rubbing,  kneading. 

Mastication — The  act  of  chewing. 

Masturbation — Self-abuse. 

Materia  Medica. — The  science  of  medicine. 

Matrix — The  womb. 

Maturation — The  formation  of  matter  or  pus. 

Maxilla — The  jaw-bone. 

Meatus — A passage  or  canal. 

Meconium — The  first  evacuations  of  an  infant. 

Mediastinum — The  partition  formed  by  the  meeting  of  the  pleura,  dividing 
the  chest  into  two  lateral  parts. 

Medula  Oblongata — A mass  of  nerves  at  the  lower  part  of  the  brain. 
Membrane — A thin  sheet-like  tissue. 

Meninges — The  three  membranes  that  envelope  the  brain  and  spinal  cord. 
Menses. — The  monthly  flow  or  sickness  of  females. 

Menstrual — Pertaining  to  the  menses. 

Menstruation — The  monthly  discharges  from  the  womb. 

Menstruum — A liquid  used  to  dissolve  solid  substances. 

Mephitic — Noxious,  suffocating. 

Mesentery — The  membrane  which  attaches  the  intestines  to  the  spine. 
Metacarpus — The  part  of  the  hand  between  the  wrist  and  fingers. 

Metastasis — A transference  of  disease  from  one  place  to  another. 

Metatarsus — The  portion  of  the  foot  between  the  ankle  and  toes. 

Miasma,  Miasmata — Malaria;  exhalations  from  swamps  and  decaying  matter. 
Miasm — Infection  floating  in  the  air. 

Micturition — The  act  of  making  water. 

Midwife — A woman  who  attends  another  at  childbirth. 

Minim — A drop. 

Minimum — The  least. 

Mitral  Valves — Valves  of  the  heart. 

Molars — The  teeth  used  for  grinding. 

Molecule — The  smallest  portion  of  matter  which  can  exist  alone. 

Morbid — Unhealthy;  diseased. 

Morbific — Producing  disease. 

Morbus — A disease  of  the  bowels. 

Mortification — Decay. 

Mucilage — A glutinous  solution  of  gum. 

Mucous  Membrane — The  membrane  which  lines  all  the  cavities  of  the  body 
which  open  externally. 

Mucus — A mucilaginous  fluid  secreted  by  the  mucous  membrane. 

Muscle — An  organ  which  produces  motion  by  its  contraction. 

Myalgia — Muscular  rheumatism. 

Narcotic — A medicine  which  produces  sleep  or  relieves  pain. 

Nasal — Belonging  to  the  nose. 

Nausea — Sickness  at  the  stomach  with  inclination  to  vomit. 

Nauseant — A medicine  which  causes  sickness  at  the  stomach. 

Navel — Center  of  the  abdomen. 

Necrosis — Decay  or  death  of  bone. 


284 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Negus — A liquid  made  of  water,  wine,  nutmeg,  sugar  and  lemon  juice. 
Nephritic— Pertaining  to  the  kidneys. 

Nephritis — -Inflammation  of  the  kidneys. 

Nervine — A medicine  which  soothes  nervous  excitement. 

Neuralgia — Pain  in  the  nerves. 

Neurasthenia — Nervous  exhaustion. 

Nevus — A birthmark. 

Nitrogen — One  of  the  gases  in  the  atmosphere. 

Nocturnal — Occurring  at  night. 

Node — A knot,  a protuberance. 

Normal — Healthy,  natural. 

Nostalgia — Homesickness. 

Nostrum — A patent  medicine ; a quack  medicine. 

Noxious — Injurious,  disagreeable. 

Nutritious — Possessing  nourishment. 

Nutritive — Nourishing. 

Nymphomania — Excessive  desire  in  the  female  for  sexual  intercourse. 

Obesity — Stoutness ; excessive  fatness. 

Obstetrical — Pertaining  to  midwifery. 

Obstetrics — The  science  of  midwifery. 

Obtuse — Dull. 

Occipital — Pertaining  to  the  back  part  of  the  head. 

Ocular — Pertaining  to  the  eyes. 

Oedema  or  Edema — A watery  swelling. 

Olfactory — An  organ  of  smelling. 

Omentum — The  covering  of  the  bowels. 

Ophthalmia — Inflammation  of  the  eyes. 

Ophthalmoscope — An  instrument  used  for  examining  the  eyes. 

Opiate — A medicine  containing  some  form  of  opium  and  producing  sleep. 
Optic — Pertaining  to  the  eye  or  to  sight. 

Orthopnea — A disease,  as  asthma,  which  is  attended  with  difficulty  in  breath- 
ing. 

Osseous — Resembling  or  formed  of  bone. 

Ossification — Turning  into  bone. 

Ossify — To  turn  to  a bone-like  substance. 

Os  Uteri — The  mouth  of  the  womb. 

Otoscope — An  instrument  used  for  examining  the  ear. 

Ovary — The  female  organ  in  which  the  ovum  or  egg  is  formed. 

Ovariotomy — The  operation  for  the  diseases  of  the  ovary. 

Ovum — An  egg. 

Oxygen — A gas  which  forms  one-fifth  of  the  atmosphere. 

Pabulum — F oo  d . 

Palatableness — Degree  of  pleasantness  to  the  taste. 

Palate — The  roof  of  the  mouth  or  the  partition  separating  the  cavity  of  the 
mouth  from  that  of  the  nose. 

Palliative — A remedy  which  relieves  pain. 

Palpitation — A violent  fluttering  and  irregular  beating  of  the  heart. 

Panacea — A cure-all ; a medicine  for  all  diseases. 

Panada — A soft  and  nourishing  food. 


GLOSSARY. 


285 


Pancreas — The  sweetbread;  a gland  located  in  the  abdomen. 

Papillae — Small  elevations  on  the  skin  and  tongue. 

Paracentesis — Puncturing  of  the  abdomen  or  chest  for  the  purpose  of  draw- 
ing off  water. 

Paralysis — Loss  of  control  of  any  organ ; palsy. 

Paralytic — One  having  paralysis. 

Paraplegia — Paralysis  of  the  lower  part  of  the  body. 

Parasite — An  animal  or  plant  which  lives  in  or  upon  another. 

Parenchyma — The  soft  cellular  substance  of  the  tissues  of  plants  and  animals. 
Parotid  Glands — The  glands  which  secrete  the  saliva. 

Paroxysm — A spasmodic  or  periodical  convulsion. 

Parturition — The  act  of  bringing  forth  young. 

Patella — The  knee-pan. 

Pathognomonic — Characteristic  of  a disease. 

Pathology — The  science  Avhich  treats  of  the  causes  and  nature  of  diseases. 
Pectoral — Pertaining  to  the  chest. 

Pedicle — The  narrow  part  of  a tumor. 

Pediculus — A louse,  (plural,  Pediculi). 

Pelvis — The  bony  cavity  forming  the  lower  part  of  the  trunk. 

Pepsin — A substance  in  the  stomach  which  aids  digestion. 

Peptic — Aiding  digestion. 

Percussion — Tapping  upon  the  body  to  judge  of  the  condition  of  the  internal 
organs. 

Perflation — The  act  of  blowing  through. 

Pericardium — The  membrane  or  sac  enclosing  the  heart. 

Pericarditis — Inflammation  of  the  membrane  enclosing  the  heart. 
Perichondrium — The  membrane  which  covers  the  cartilages. 

Pericranium — The  membrane  covering  the  bones  of  the  skull  externally. 
Perineum — The  part  between  the  genital  organs  and  the  anus. 

Periodicity — The  state  of  having  regular  periods  of  change. 

Periosteum — The  membrane  which  covers  the  bones. 

Peristaltic — Contracting  in  successive  circles. 

Permeate — To  pass  through  the  pores  without  rupturing. 

Permeable — Capable  of  being  permeated. 

Perspiration — Sweat. 

Petechiae — Purple  spots  which  appear  on  the  skin  in  low  fever. 

Phagedenic — Eating,  corroding. 

Phalanges — The  bones  of  the  fingers  and  toes. 

Pharynx — The  cavity  at  the  base  of  the  skull  or  back  part  of  mouth  and  upper 
part  of  throat. 

Phlebotomy — The  letting  of  blood. 

Phlegm — Mucus  from  the  bronchial  tubes. 

Phlegmatic — Sluggish,  dull,  heavy. 

Phlegmon — Inflammation  of  the  cellular  tissues. 

Phlegmonous — Of  the  nature  of  phlegmon. 

Phlogistic — Inflammatory. 

Phthisical — Pertaining  to  phthisis  or  consumption. 

Phthisis — Consumption. 

Physiognomy — The  countenance  or  face. 

Physiology — The  science  which  treats  of  the  organs  and  their  functions. 
Placenta — The  appendage  which  connects  the  fetus  with  the  parent. 


286 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Plasma — The  colorless  fluid  of  the  blood. 

Plethora — The  state  of  being  too  full. 

Plethoric — A full  habit  of  body ; corpulence. 

Pleura — The  membrane  which  covers  the  lungs  and  lines  the  chest. 

Pleurisy — Inflammation  of  the  pleura. 

Plexus — Any  network  of  vessels,  fibres  or  nerves. 

Pneumonia — Inflammation  of  the  lungs. 

Polypus — A tumor  shaped  like  a pair;  a tumor  which  grows  from  mucous 
membranes. 

Portable — That  which  may  be  carried. 

Portal  Vessels — The  cluster  of  veins  which  join  and  enter  the  liver. 
Post-mortem — After  death. 

Potable — Drinkable. 

Pregnancy — The  condition  of  being  with  child  or  with  young. 

Premonitory — Giving  warning  beforehand. 

Prescription — A formula  for  the  preparation  of  medicines. 

Probang — An  instrument  for  relieving  animals  that  are  choking. 

Probe — An  instrument  for  examining  a wound ; to  examine  with  a probe. 
Process — A projecting  part;  a protuberance. 

Prognosis — Fortelling  the  course  and  termination  of  a disease. 

Prolapsus — The  falling  downward  or  forward  of  a part. 

Prolapsus  Ani — The  falling  of  the  anus. 

Prolapsus  Recti — The  falling  of  the  rectum. 

Prolapsus  Uteri — The  falling  of  the  uterus,  or  womb. 

Prophylactic — Preventive;  a preventive  medicine. 

Prostration — Loss  of  strength. 

Proteids — Foods  composed  of  hydrogen,  carbon,  oxygen  and  nitrogen.  The 
white  of  an  egg  is  an  example. 

Protozoan — A primary  division  of  the  animal  kingdom. 

Pruritus — Itching. 

Pruritus  Vulva — A disease  in  which  there  is  great  itching  of  the  vulva. 
Pseudo — False. 

Ptyalin — A ferment  contained  in  the  saliva. 

Ptyalism — Salivation ; an  excessive  flow  of  saliva 

Puberty — Full  growth ; the  age  at  which  one  is  capable  of  begetting  young. 
Puerperal — Pertaining  to  childbirth. 

Pulmonary — Pertaining  to  the  lungs. 

Pulmonic — A medicine  used  for  diseases  of  the  lungs. 

Pulmonitis — Inflammation  of  the  lungs. 

Pulsate — To  throb  or  beat. 

Pulse — The  beating  of  the  heart  and  arteries. 

Pulp — A soft  mass. 

Pungent — Bitter  acrid,  piercing. 

Pupil — The  opening  in  the  colored  curtain  of  the  eye. 

Purgative — A medicine  which  causes  the  bowels  to  move  freely. 

Purulent — Consisting  of  matter  or  pus ; resembling  pus. 

Pus — An  unhealthy  yellowish-white  matter  produced  by  suppuration. 
Pustules — Pimples  on  the  skin  which  contain  pus. 

Putrefaction — Decomposition  by  fermentation. 

Putrescent — Pertaining  to  putrefaction. 

Putrid — Rotten,  decomposed. 


GLOSSARY. 


287 


Pylorus — The  opening  from  the  stomach  into  the  intestines. 

Pyrosis — W ater-brash. 

Quiescent — Being  at  rest. 

Quickening — The  time  when  movements  of  the  fetus  in  the  womb  are  first 
noticed. 

Rabies — Hydrophobia. 

Rales — The  noise  made  by  air  passing  through  mucus  in  the  lungs. 

Ramify — To  divide  into  many  branches. 

Raphe — The  appearance  of  parts  as  if  sewed  together. 

Receptacle — That  which  contains  or  receives. 

Rectal — Pertaining  to  the  rectum. 

Rectum — The  lower  part  of  the  large  bowel. 

Recumbent — Lying  down;  reclining. 

Recurrent — Returning  from  time  to  time. 

Refrigerant — Medicines  which  lessen  fever  or  heat. 

Regimen — Systematic  treatment  and  diet  to  restore  health. 

Regurgitation — The  act  by  which  blood  is  forced  or  allowed  to  flow  back  in 
an  unnatural  manner. 

Remission — A temporary  subsidence  of  pain  or  disease. 

Remittent — Having  remissions. 

Reproduction — The  production  of  young. 

Resolution — The  disappearance  of  inflammation  without  the  formation  of  pus. 
Resolvent — A medicine  having  power  to  disperse  inflammation. 

Respiration — Breathing. 

Restorative — A medicine  which  restores  health  and  strength. 

Resuscitation — Reviving  from  apparent  death. 

Retina — The  internal  nervous  tissue  of  the  eye  where  the  image  is  formed  in 
seeing. 

Retrocession — The  change  of  an  eruption  from  the  surface  to  inner  parts. 
Revulsive — Plostile,  repugnant. 

Rheum — A thin  fluid  secreted  by  mucous  glands. 

Rickets — A disease  or  softening  of  the  bones. 

Rigor — A convulsive  shuddering. 

Rubefacient — An  external  application  like  mustard  which  causes  redness  of 
the  skin. 

Rubific — To  make  red. 

Saccharine — Like  or  containing  sugar. 

Sacral — Pertaining  to  the  sacrum. 

Saline — Salty. 

Saliva — The  spittle ; the  secretion  of  the  glands  of  the  mouth. 

Salivation — An  excessive  secretion  of  saliva. 

Salutary — Wholesome. 

Sanative — Healing,  curative. 

Sanguine — Hopeful. 

Sanies — A thin  fluid  discharged  from  wounds  or  ulcers. 

Sanitary — P^ertaining  to  health. 

Sanitation — The  act  of  rendering  healthy. 

Scab — A crust  or  formation  over  a sore  in  healing. 


388 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Scarf-skin — The  cuticle  or  outer  skin. 

Scapula — The  shoulder  blade. 

Scale — A flat,  thin,  horny  outgrowth  of  skin. 

Sciatic — Pertaining  to  the  hip. 

Sciatic  Nerve — The  large  nerve  of  the  thigh. 

Scirrhous — Pertaining  to  scirrhus. 

Scirrhus — A certain  kind  of  cancerous  growth. 

Sclerotic — The  hai;d  white  outer  coat  of  the  eye. 

Scorbutic — Pertaining  to  or  of  the  nature  of  scurvy. 

Scrofulous — Affected  with  scrofula;  pertaining  to  scrofula. 

Scrotum — The  bag  which  contains  the  testicles. 

Scurvy — A disease  due  to  impaired  nutrition. 

Sebaceous — Giving  fatty  secretions. 

Secrete — To  separate  or  take  from  the  blood. 

Sedative — A quieting  medicine  which  allays  irritation  and  soothes  pain. 
Sedentary. — Inactive. 

Semiflexion — Bending  half  over. 

Seminal — Pertaining  to  or  contained  in  seed. 

Senile — Pertaining  to  old  age. 

Sensorium — The  seat  of  sensation. 

Septic — substance  which  promotes  putrefaction. 

Septicaemia — Blood  poisoning. 

Sequel — That  which  follows;  the  results. 

Serous — Watery,  thin. 

Serum — The  watery  or  liquid  portion  of  the  blood. 

Sewerage — System  of  sewers. 

Sewage — Refuse  material  removed  by  sewers. 

Shank — The  part  of  the  leg  from  the  knee  to  the  foot. 

Sialogogue — A medicine  which  increases  the  flow  of  saliva. 

Sinapism — A poultice  or  plaster  of  mustard. 

Sinew — That  which  unites  the  muscles  to  the  bones. 

Slough — To  fall  off;  the  dead  part  which  falls  off. 

Solution — Composed  of  liquid  and  a solid  substance;  a dilution. 

Solvent — Having  the  power  to  dissolve  solids. 

Soporific — A medicine  which  induces  sleep. 

Sordes — Excretions;  foul  matter. 

Spasm — A cramp ; a convulsion ; a sudden  contraction  of  muscles. 

Specific — An  infallible  remedy;  a sure-cure. 

Speculum — An  instrument  for  throwing  light  into  passages  of  the  body  for 
the  purpose  of  examination. 

Sphincter — A muscle  that  contracts  the  orifice. 

Spinal — Belonging  to  the  spine. 

Spinal  Column — The  back-bone. 

Spinal  Cord — The  nervous  marrows  in  the  back-bone. 

Spleen — An  organ  situated  in  the  abdomen  and  attached  to  the  stomach. 
Splint — A bony  tumor  on  the  splint  bone  of  a horse. 

Sporadic — Separate,  single,  scattered. 

Squamous — Having  scales. 

Sternum — The  breastbone. 

Stertor — Snoring;  noisy  breathing. 

Stertorous — The  act  of  snoring. 


GLOSSARY. 


289 


Stethoscope — An  instrument  used  for  listening  to  the  sounds  of  the  lungs  and 
heart. 

Stimulant — A medicine  which  increases  vitality  or  excites  healthy  action.^ 
Stomachic — Pertaining  to  the  stomach;  a medicine  which  excites  the  action 
of  the  stomach. 

Stomatitis — Inflammation  of  the  mouth. 

Stool — A discharge  from  the  bowels ; to  discharge  from  the  bowels. 
Strangulated — Choked ; having  the  circulation  stopped. 

Strangulation — Suffocation. 

Stranguary — A difficult  and  painful  discharge  of  urine. 

Stricture — An  unnatural  contraction  of  a passage  of  the  body. 

Struma — Scrofula. 

Strumous — Pertaining  to  scrofula. 

Stupor — Numbness,  insensibility. 

Styptic — An  astringent;  a medicine  which  stops  bleeding. 

Subcutaneous — Under  the  skin. 

Submaxillary — Under  the  jaw-bone. 

Sudor — Sweat. 

Sudorific — A medicine  that  causes  sweating. 

Suppository — Medicinal  substances  introduced  into  the  rectum  or  vagina. 
Suppurate — To  generate  pus. 

Supperation — The  act  or  process  of  generating  pus. 

Suture — A seam. 

Symptom — A sign  or  token  of  disease. 

Syncope — Fainting  or  swooning. 

Synchronous — Occurring  at  the  same  time. 

Synovia — A fluid  which  resembles  the  white  of  an  egg  and  lubricates  the  joints. 
Syphilis — A contagious  venereal  disease. 

Syphilitic — Pertaining  to  syphilis. 

Syphon — A tube  or  pipe. 

Syringe — An  instrument  for  injecting  liquids  into  various  parts  of  the  body. 

Tannic  Acid — An  astringent  made  from  oak  bark. 

Tapping — Drawing  off  collected  fluid. 

Tartar — A substance  which  forms  on  the  teeth. 

Tegument — The  covering  of  the  body. 

Temperament — A peculiar  habit  of  body. 

Tendon — A tough  cord  uniting  a muscle  to  some  other  part.. 

Tenesmus — Difficulty  and  pain  at  stool. 

Tenuity — Thinness. 

Tepid — Lukewarm. 

Tergal — Of  or  pertaining  to  the  neck. 

Tertian — Occurring  every  other  day. 

Testes — The  testicles. 

Testicles — Glands  situated  in  the  scrotum  and  containing  the  seminal  fluid. 
Tetanic — Pertaining  to  the  art  of  healing. 

Tetanus — Lockjaw. 

Therapeutic — Pertaining  to  the  art  of  healing. 

Thorax — The  chest. 

Tibia — The  large  bone  in  man  below  the  knee ; the  inner  of  the  two  bones  •f 
the  hind  limb  of  an  animal  above  the  hock. 

3—19 


290 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Tincture — Spirits  containing  medicine  in  solution. 

Tonic — A medicine  that  increases  the  strength  of  the  system. 

Tormina — Severe  griping  pains. 

Tonsils — Glands  on  either  side  of  the  throat. 

Torpid — Dull,  sluggish. 

Torpor — Inactivity. 

Torsion  or  Tortion — The  act  of  twisting. 

Torniquet — An  instrument  used  to  stop  or  arrest  bleeding. 

Trachea — The  windpipe. 

Tracheotomy — A surgical  operation  on  the  trachea  or  for  croup. 

Translucent — Partially  transparent. 

Transpiration — Exhalation  from  the  skin. 

Transude — To  pass  through  the  pores. 

Traumatic — Relating  to  wounds ; a medicine  used  to  cure  wounds. 

Tractile — Capable  of  being  drawn  out. 

Tremor — An  involuntary  shivering. 

Trephining — Removing  a piece  of  bone  from  the  skull  by  an  operation. 
Triturate — To  pulverize  or  grind  to  a powder. 

Tubercle — A tumor  or  swelling. 

Tumefaction — The  act  of  swelling  or  forming  a tumor. 

Turner — A rounded  projection  of  bone. 

Tumor — A morbid  enlargement  or  swelling  of  any  part  of  the  body. 
Tympanum — The  ear-drum. 

Typhoid — Weak;  low;  resembling  typhus. 

Typhus — A nervous  or  exhaustive  fever. 

Ulcer— -A  sore  which  discharges  pus. 

Ulna — The  larger  bone  of  the  forearm  in  man  or  the  elbow  of  the  foreleg  in 
animals. 

Umbilic — Pertaining  to  the  navel. 

Umbilicus — The  navel 

Uraemic — Pertaining  to  an  accumulation  of  the  principles  of  urine  in  the  blood. 
Urea — A substance  found  in  the  urine. 

Ureter — The  duct  running  from  the  kidneys  to  the  bladder. 

Urehra — The  canal  through  which  the  urine  passes  out  of  the  body. 

Uric  Acid — An  acid  contained  in  the  urine. 

Urinary — Pertaining  to  the  urine. 

Urine — The  water  or  secretion  from  the  bladder. 

Uterus — The  womb. 

Uvulva — The  soft  part  of  the  palate;  the  part  of  the  palate  which  hangs  down. 

Vaccinate — To  inoculate  with  cow-pox  by  inserting  the  vaccine  under  the  skin. 
Vaccine — Matter  derived  from  cows  for  purpose  of  vaccination. 

Vagina — The  canal  or  passage  from  the  womb  to  the  vulva. 

Vaginismus — Spasm  of  the  vagina  caused  by  irritability. 

Valetudinarian — A person  of  a sickly  or  weak  constitution. 

Varicose — Swollen  or  enlarged. 

Variolous — Pertaining  to  small-pox. 

Vascular — Full  of  vessels  such  as  veins  and  arteries. 

Veins — The  vessels  which  return  the  blood  to  the  heart. 

Venery — Sexual  indulgence. 


GLOSSARY. 


291 


Venesection — The  operation  of  opening  a vein;  phlebotomy. 

Veneous — Pertaining  to  the  veins. 

Ventilation — A free  admission  of  air. 

Ventral — Belonging  to  the  belly. 

Ventricles — Small  cavities  in  a body;  the  posterior  cavities  of  the  heart. 
Vermifuge — A medicine  which  destroys  or  removes  worms. 

Vertebra — A bone  of  the  spinal  column. 

Vertigo — Dizziness. 

Vesicant — A blistering  application.  ' 

Vesication — The  process  of  blistering. 

Vesicle — A small  bladder  or  sac. 

Veterinary — Pertaining  to  the  art  of  treating  domestic  animals. 

Villi — Very  small  thread-like  projections. 

Virile — Pertaining  to  a man. 

Virulent — Malignant,  poisonous,  extremely  dangerous. 

Virus — Poisonous  or  contagious  matter. 

Viscera — The  organs  contained  in  the  abdomen. 

Viscid — Sticky;  like  glue. 

Viscus — Any  internal  organ. 

Vitiate — To  contaminate ; to  spoil. 

Vitreous  Humor — The  fluid  in  the  eye  behind  the  lens. 

Volatile — Easily  evaporated;  capable  of  wasting  away. 

Vulnerary — Pertaining  to  wounds;  useful  in  healing  wounds. 

Vulva — The  external  opening  of  the  genitals  of  the  female. 

Whites — Fluor  Albus  ; leucorrhea. 

Zymotic — Contagious  diseases  such  as  may  be  inoculated. 


392 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional  Recipes.) 


DR.  FAIR  DICTATING  LETTERS  TO  STOCK  OWNERS. 

Four  times  a da}^  the  mail  brings  nnmeroiis  inquiries  from  all  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  Canada  pertaining  to  the  ailments  of  live  stock.  Many  of  these  letters 
are  from  readers  of  this  book  and  subscribers  to  “ The  Ohio  Farmer  ” and  “ The  Michi- 
gan Farmer.”  It  is  not  unusual  for  Dr.  Fair  to  receive  fifty  or  one  hundred  letters  of 
this  kind  daily. 

( Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  office  especially  for  this  book.) 


ANSWERING  CORRESPONDENCE. 

Lady  Stenographers  in  Dr.  Fair’s  office  busy  typewriting  letters  that  the  Doctor 
has  dictated  in  answer  to  inciuiries  from  farmers  and  stock  owners  from  all  parts 
of  the  countr}-.  .\lso,  one  of  his  assistants  answering  telephone  calls. 

(Photographed  at  Dr.  Fair’s  office  especially  for  this  book.) 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional  Recipes.) 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional  Recipes.) 


VETERINARY  INDEX 


For  index  of  Cattle,  see  page  302;  for  index  of  Sheep,  see  page  308;  for  index  of 
Hogs,  see  page  309;  for  index  of  Poultry,  see  page  31 1;  for  index  of  Household  Pets, 
see  page  312;  for  Miscellaneous  index,  see  page  313. 


HORSES. 


A 


Abortion 

Abscess 

Abscess,  Cold  

Abscess  in  Throat 

Abscess  of  Ear  

Absorbent  and  Blister 

Acute  Eczema 

Acute  Indigestion  

Acute  Inflammation  of  Kidneys  

Afterbirth,  Removing 

After-pains  Following  Foaling 

Age,  How  to  Tell  

Ailments,  Kidney 

Air  in  Chest 

Air  Under  Skin  

Amaurosis  

Anasarca 

Anemia  

Ani,  Prolapsus  

Ankle,  Diseases  of 

Ankle,  Cocked  2, 

. Apoplexy  

Appetite,  Depraved 

Arthritis  of  Hip  Joint  

Ascites  

Astringent  Lotion,  Cooling 

Atrophy  of  Muscles 

Azoturia 


47 

87 

87 

39 

63 

254 

57 

16 
43 
50 
50 

8 

43 

41 

85 

63 

33 

III 

28 

91 

97 

68 

17 

80 

33 

253 

72 

45 


B 


Back,  Sore 

Bad  Blood  

Balking  

Barrenness  

Belly,  Swelling  of  Before  Foaling 

Big  Head  

Big  Leg 

Bites  of  Insects  and  Snakes 

Biting,  Crib  

Bitting  a Colt 

Bladder,  Diseases  of 

Bladder,  Inflammation  of 

Bladder,  Stone  in  

Bleeding  


89 


109 

7 

47 

51 

107 

104 

86 

7 

3 

43 

43 


46 

III,  251 


Bleeding  After  Castration  

Bleeding  After  Foaling  

Bleeding  from  Navel  

Blemishes  

Blind  Staggers  

Blindness,  Moon 

Blister  

Blister  and  Absorbent  

Bloat,  Puncturing  to  Relieve  

Bloating,  People's  Home  Remedies  for 

Blood,  Bad  or  Impure  

Blood  Letting 

Blood  Poisoning  

Blood  Spavin  

Bloody  Urine  (See  “ Hasmaturia.”)  ... 


Bodies  in  Ear,  Foreign  

Bodies  in  Eye,  Fojieign  

Boil,  Shoe  2, 

Bog  Spavin 2, 

Bone,  Diseases  of i. 

Bone,  Fracture  of  Hip  

Bone,  Inflammation  of 

Bone  Spavin  i. 

Bones,  Broken  

Bowed  Tendons  . .^ 

Bowel,  Falling  of 

Bowel,  Tapping  

Bowels,  Diseases  of  


Bowels,  Inflammation  of  

Bots  

Brain,  Congestion  of  

Bran  Mashes,  How  to  Make 

Break-down  2, 

Breaking,  Halter  

Breaking,  Training  and  Handling 

Horses  

Breathing  Organs,  Diseases  of 

Breeding  and  Feeding  

Broken  Bones  

Broken  Knee 

Broken  Wind 

Bronchial  Tubes,  Diseases  of 

Bronchitis ' 

Bronchocele  

Bruised  Knee  

Bruises  of  Sole  of  Foot 


53 

50 

51 

i 

65 

63 


254 

254 

17 

16 

109 

III 

III 

78 

44 

63 

63 

83 

78 


74 

86 

74 

76 

75 


2 

28 

17 

15 

21 

31 

65 

14 

97 

7 


3 

35 

261 


75 

2 

36 

35 

36 

105 

82 

81 


295 


296 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Bruises,  Stone 8i 

Bunches  •'  • • • 74>  92 

Burns  and  Scalds  59 

Bursal  Enlargements  2 

C 

Calculi  46 

Callosities 58 

Cancer  in  Eye  63 

Canker  2 

Caps  on  Teeth 30 

Capped  Elbow  2,  83 

Capped  Hock  2,  82 

Care  of  the  Injured  13 

Care  of  the  Sick  ii 

Caries  30 

Cartilage  of  Ear,  Diseases  of  63 

Casting 5 

Castration 52 

Castration,  Bleeding  After 53 

Castration,  Swelling  After  53 

Castration,  Troubles  Following  53 

Catarrh  ^ 39 

Catarrh,  Chronic  Nasal  (Nasal  Gleet)  40 

Catarrh,  Malignant  40 

Catarrh  of  Eye  62 

Catarrhal  /vffections  254 

Catarrhal  Never  253,  254 

Cathartic  252 

Cerebro-Spinal  Meningitis 69 

Chest,  Air  or  Gas  in  41 

Chest,  Tapping  iii 

Chest,  Water  in 41 

Chills  loi 

Choking 31 

Chorea  69 

Chronic  Cough  40 

Chronic  Eczema 57 

Chronic  Founder  99 

Chronic  Indigestion  15 

Chronic  Inflammation  of  Kidneys 43 

Chronic  Laminitis  ^ 2,  99 

Chronic  Nasal  Catarrh  (Nasal  Gleet)  40 

Cinch  Galls 2 

Cirrhosis  33 

Cleaning  50 

Cocked  Ankles 2,  97 

Coffin  Joint  Lameness  98 

Cold  Abscess  87 

Colds  and  Catarrhal  Affections  254 

Colic  253 

Colic,  Flatulent  or  Wind  17,  253 

Colic,  Spasmodic  18 

Collar  Galls  2,  89,  255 

Colt,  Bitting  3 

Colt,  How  to  Saddle  Break  3 

Colts,  Constipation  in 27 

Colts,  Diarrhea  in  26 

Colts,  Rheumatism  in 109 

Concretions,  Intestinal  25 

Condition  Powders no,  256,  257 

Conformation  and  Good  Points i 

Congestion  of  Brain 65 


Congestion  of  Liver  

Congestion  of  Lungs 

Conjunctivitis 

Constipation 

Constipation  in  Young  Colts 


Contagious  Ophthalmia 

Contracted  Heels  2, 

Contused  Wounds  

Cooling  Astringent  Lotion  

Corns  2, 

Cough,  Chronic  

Cough  Mixture  251, 

Coughs  

Convex  Soles  

Crack,  Quarter  2, 

Crack,  Sand  

Cracks,  Toe 

Cracks  in  Wall 

Cracked  Heels  55, 

Cramps  

Crib  Biting 

Curb  2, 

Cut,  Speedy 


Cystitis 


32 


26 

27 
62 

100 

84 
253 

93 

40 
252 

41 

99 

94 
94 

2 

94 

255 

18 

7 

78 

82 

85 

43 


D 

Decayed  Teeth  30 

Defects  and  Blemishes i 

Depraved  Appetite  17 

Diabetes  Insipidus 44 

Diaphragm,  Spasm  of 37 

Diarrhea  25 

Diarrhea  in  Young  Colts 26 

Difficult  Foaling  140 

Digestive  Organs,  Diseases  of 15 

Dilation  of  CEsophagus 31 

Disease,  Loco 34 

Disease,  Monday  Morning 104 

Disease,  Navicular  2 

Diseases  of  Bladder  43 

Diseases  of  Bones  i,  74 

Diseases  of  Bowels 15 

Diseases  of  Bronchial  Tubes 35 

Diseases  of  Cartilage  of  Ear 63 

Diseases  of  Digestive  Organs 15 

Diseases  of  Eye  and  Ear 61 

Diseases  of  Fetlock,  Ankle  and  Foot.  91 

Diseases  of  Foot  2,  91 

Diseases  of  Generative  Organs  of 

Horse  and  Mare 47 

Diseases  of  Kidneys 43 

Diseases  of  Liver  • 15 

Diseases  of  Lungs 35 

Diseases  of  Mouth  15 

Diseases  of  Muscles,  Tendons,  Liga- 
ments AND  Skin  2 

Diseases  of  Nervous  System 64 

Diseases  of  Respiratory  or  Breathing 

Organs  35 

Diseases  of  Skin  55 

Diseases  of  Spleen  in 

Diseases  of  Stomach  15 


STOCK  INDEX. 


297 


Diseases  of  Synovial  Membranes 2 

Diseases  of  Throat  35 

Diseases  of  Urinary  Organs 43 

Diseases,  Various loi 

Dislocation  of  Eyeball 63 

Dislocation  of  Patella  81 

Distemper 103 

Diuresis  44 

Drinks  and  Foods  for  Sick  Horses 14 

Dropsy  33,  51 

Dropsy  of  Lungs 41 

Drugs,  Useful  Stable 246 

Drying  Powder  254 

Dysentery  25 


E 


Ear,  Abscess  of 63 

Ear  and  Eye,  Diseases  and  Injuries  of  61 

Ear,  Diseases  of  Cartilage  of 63 

Ear,  Foreign  Bodies  in 63 

Ear,  Inflammation  of  Internal 63 

Ears,  Lacerated  63 

Eating  Grain,  Kicking  While 6 

Eczema,  Acute  and  Chronic  57 

Educating  Horses  4 

Elbow,  Capped  2,  83 

Elbow  Tumors  2,  83 

Enlargements,  Bursal 2 

Enlargement  of  Thyroid  Gland 105 

Enteritis  21 

Enuresis 46 

Epilepsy  69 

Epizootic 102 

Erysipelas 57 

Eversion  of  Uterus  or  Womb 49 

Eversion  of  Vagina  59 

Examination  for  Soundnesss 8 

Exhaustion,  Heat 66 

Exostosis  of  Jaw 76 

•Eye  and  Ear,  Diseases  and  Injuries  of  61 

Eyeball,  Dislocation  of  63 

Eye,  Cancer  in  63 

Eye,  Catarrh  of 62 

Eye,  Foreign  Bodies  in  63 

Eye,  Glass 63 

Eye  Lotion  252,  253 

Eye,  Pink  102 

Eye,  Worm  in  62 

Eyelids,  Injuries  to 63 

Eyes,  Inflamed  62 

Eyes,  Inflammation  of 61 

Eyes,  Sore 61 


F 


Falling  Fits 65 

Falling  of  Bowel  28 

Farcy  107 

Farcy,  Water 104 

Feeding,  Proper 10 

Feeding  and  Breeding 261 

Feet,  Punctured  Wounds  of  $S 


Fetlock,  Diseases  of 

Fetlock  Joints,  Striking 

Fever,  Catarrhal 

Fever,  Lung  (Pneumonia)  

Fever,  Milk  

Fever,  Mud  

Fever,  Puerperal 

Fever,  Shipping 

Fifty  Modern  Prescriptions  

First  Lesson  in  Breaking 

Fistula  

Fistulous  Withers 

Fits,  Falling  

Flatulent  Colic 

Flooding 

Foal,  Slinking  of 

Foaling,  After-pains  Following 

Foaling,  Bleeding  After 

Foaung,  Difficult 

Foaling,  Swelling  of  Belly  Before 

Foals,  Weakness  in  Legs  of 

Food  and  Feeding,  Proper 

Foods  and  Drinks  for  Sick  Horses  . 
Foot,  Bruises  of  Sole  of 

Foot,  Diseases  of  

Foot,  Pumiced 

Foreign  Bodies  in  Ear  . . 

Foreign  Bodies  in  Eye  . . 

Forging  

Founder 

Founder,  Chronic  

Fracture  of  Hip  Bone  . . 

Fractures  

Frostbites  

Frothing  at  Mouth 

Fungus  H^ematodes  


. . . . 91 

. . . . 96 
253,  254 
• • • . 35 

....  51 

. . . . 55 
....  51 

104 

....  251 
....  3 

..2,  89 
. . . . 88 
....  65 
.17,  253 
. . . . 50 

. . . . 47 
. . . . 50 
. . . . 50 

140 

...  51 

106 

10 

. . . . 14 

. . . . 81 


2,  91 

• . 97 
. . 63 
. . 63 
. . 96 

2,  98 


75 

59 

29 

63 


G 


Galls,  Cinch  

Galls,  Collar  2,  89, 

Galls,  Saddle  2,  89, 

Galls,  Wind  

Garget  

Gas  in  Chest  

Gastritis  


Generative  Organs,  Diseases  of  

Giving  Medicine  

Gland,  Thyroid — Enlargement  of  


Glanders  

Glass  Eye 

Gleet  

Gleet,  Nasal  40, 

Glossitis  

Goitre  105, 

Gonorrhea  

Good  Points  


Gorged  Stomach  

Grain,  Kicking  While  Eating 

Gravel  

Grease  Heel 

Gruel,  How  to  Make 

Gutxa  .S«rena  


2 

255 

255 

92 

51 

41 

21 

47 

14 

105 

107 

63 

52 
254 
29 

252 

52 

I 

20 

6 

46 

56 

14 

63 


298 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


H 

HyEMATODES,  FUNGUS  63 

H.EMATUR1A  44 

Halter  Breaking 7 

Halter  Pulling  7 

Handling  Horses  3 

PIarnfss,  Kicking  in 6 

Hay  Tea  14 

Haw,  Inflammation  of  62 

Head,  Big 107 

PIealing  Lotion  251,  252,  253 

Healing  Salve  253 

Heat  Exhaustion  ■ 66 

Heaves  36,  40,  41 

Heel,  Grease  56 

Heels,  Contracted  2,  100 

Heels,  Cracked  55,  255 

Hemorrhagica,  Purpura  iii 

Hepatitis  32 

Hernia  22 

Hernia,  Diaphragmatic  23 

Hernia,  Inguinal  22 

Hernia,  Scrotal  22 

Hernia,  Umbilical  22 

Hernia,  Ventral  23 

Hiccoughs  37 

Hide-bound  58 

Hind  Quarters,  Partial  Paralysis  of  45 

Hip  Bone,  Fracture  of  86 

Hip  Joint,  Arthritis  of  80 

Hip  Joint  Lameness  80 

Hipped  86 

Hock,  Capped  2,  82 

Hock,  Sprung  82 

Hoof- bound  100 

Horse  Traders,  Tricks  of  267 

How  TO  Give  a Horse  Medicine  14 

How  TO  Locate  Lameness  71 

How  TO  Make  Bran  Mashes  14 

How  TO  Make  Gruel  14 

How  TO  Saddle  Break  a Colt  3 

How  TO  Subdue  Vicious  Horses  4 

How  TO  Tell  a Horse's  Age  8 

Hydrophobia  65 

Hydrothorax  41 


I 

III,  Joint  52 

Impaction  of  Stomach  20 

Impure  Blood 109 

Incised  Wounds  84 

Incontinence  of  Urine  46 

Indigestion  15 

Indigestion,  Acute  16 

Indigestion,  Chronic  15 

Inflamed  Eyes  62 

Inflammation  loi 

Inflammation  of  Bladder  43 

Inflammation  of  Bones  74 

Inflammation  of  Bowels  21 

Inflammation  of  Eyes  61 

Inflammation  of  Haw  62 

Inflammation  of  Internal  Ear  63 


Inflammation  of  Kidneys,  Acute  43 

Inflammation  of  Kidneys,  Chronic  ..  43 

Inflammation  of  Liver  32 

Inflammation  of  Lungs  35 

Inflammation  of  Mouth  (Stomatitis)  28 
Inflammation  of  Navel  Urine  Duct..  51 

Inflammation  of  Stomach  21 

Inflammation  of  Testicles  52 

Inflammation  of  Tongue  29 

Inflamaiation  of  Udder  51 

Inflammation  of  Urethra  52 

Inflammation  of  Vagina  49 

Inflammation  of  Veins  iii 

Inflammation  of  Womb  49 

Influenza  102 

Injured,  Care  of  13 

Injured  and  Sick,  Stable  Management 

of  II 

Injuries  to  Eyelids  63 

Injuries  of  the  Eye  and  Ear  61 

Injuries  to  Tongue  30 

Insects,  Bites  of  86 

Insipidus,  Diabetes  44 

Interfering  96 

Internal  Ear,  Inflammation  of  63 

Intestinal  Concretions  25 

Intestinal  Tumors  24 

Intestinal  Worms  23 

Intussusception  27 

Iritis  62 

Irregular  Strangles  (See  “Strangles.”)  103 

Irregular  Teeth  30 

Itch  57 

Itching  Tail 57 


J 

Jaw,  Exo.stosis  of  

Jaw,  Locked  

Jaundice  

Joint,  Arthritis  of  Hip 

Joint  III  

Joint  Lameness,  Coffin  ... 

Joint  Lameness,  Hip  

Joint  Lameness,  Navicular 

Joint,  Open  

Joint,  Sprain  of  Stifle 

Joints,  Stiff  

Joints,  Striking  Fetlock  . . 

Joints,  Swollen  

Joints,  Wounds  at 


76 

64 


52 

98 

80 

98 

80 

81 
92 
96 

109 

84 


K 

Kicking  in  Harness  6 

Kicking  in  Stall  6 

Kicking  While  Eating  Grain  6 

Kidney  Ailments  43 

Kidneys,  Acute  Inflammation  of 43 

Kidneys,  Chronic  Inflammation  of  . . 43 

Kidneys,  Diseases  of  43 

Knee,  Broken  2 

Knee,  Bruised  82 

Knees,  Sprung 3 

Knuckling  97 


STOCK  INDEX. 


299 


L 

Lacerated  Ears  63 

Lacerated  Wounds  84 

La  Grippe  102 

Lameness  71,  74 

Lameness,  Coffin  Joint  98 

Lameness,  Hip  Joint  80 

Lameness,  How  to  Locate 71 

Lameness,  Navicular  Joint 98 

Lameness,  Shifting 108 

•Lameness,  Whirlbone  80 

Laminitis 98 

Laminitis,  Chronic  2,  99 

Lampas  30 

Large  Bowel,  Tapping  17 

Laryngitis  38 

Leaking  at  Navel  109 

Leg,  Big 104 

Legs  of  Foals,  Weakness  in 106 

Lesson  in  Breaking,  First 3 

Leucorrhea ; 48,  255 

Lice 59 

Ligament,  Suspensory — Rupture  of 97 

Ligaments,  Diseases  of 2 

Ligaments,  Sprains  of 73 

Liniment,  Mild  Stable  251 

Liniment,  White 251 

Liniments  74 

Lips,  Wounds  of 86 

Liver,  Congestion  of 32 

Liver,  Diseases  of  15 

Liver,  Inflammation  of 32 

Locating  Lameness  71 

Lockjaw  64 

Loco  Disease  34 

Long  Round  Worms  23 

Lotion,  Cooling  Astringent  253 

Lotion,  Eye  252,  253 

Lotion,  Healing  251,  252,  253 

Lotion,  Soothing  254 

Lung  Fever  (Pneumonia)  35 

Lung  Troubles  41 

Lungs,  Congestion  of  35 

Lungs,  Diseases  of  35 

Lungs,  Dropsy  of 41 

Lungs,  Inflammation  of  35 

Lymphangitis 104 


M 


Maggots  in  Wounds  

Malignant  Catarrh  

Malignant  Sore  Throat 

Mallet N Test  

Mammitis 

Management  of  Sick  and  Injured 

Mange  

Mashes,  Bran  

Medicine,  How  to  Cive  

Megrims  

Membrana  Nictitans,  Inflammation  of 
Membranes,  Synovial — Diseases  of  . . . 

Meningitis,  Cerebro-Spinal 

Metritis  


85 

40 

39 

108 

51 

II 


57 

14 

14 

6S 

62 

2 

69 

49 


Mild  Stable  Liniment 

Milk  Fever  

Miscarriage 

Modern  Prescriptions,  Fifty  

Monday  Morning  Disease 

Moon  Blindness  

Mouth,  Diseases  of  

Mouth,  Frothing  at 

Mouth,  Inflammation  of  (Stomatitis) 

Mouth,  Sore 

Mud  Fever 

Muscles,  Atrophy  of 

Muscles,  Diseases  of  

Muscles,  Sprains  of 

Myelitis  


251 

51 

47 

251 

104 

63 

15 

29 

28 

28 

55 

72 

2 


73 

68 


N 

Nail  Punctures  86 

Nasal  Catarrh,  Chronic  (Nasal  Cleet) 

40,  254 

Nasal  Polypus  41 

Navel,  Bleeding  from 51 

Navel,  Leaking  of 109 

Navel,  Urine  Discharged  Through 52 

Navel  Urine  Duct,  Inflammation  of..  51 

Navicular  Disease  2 

Navicular  Joint  Lameness  98 

Nephritis  43 

Nervous  System,  Diseases  of  64 

Nettle  Rash 58 

Nymphomania  52 


O 

oesophagus.  Dilation  of 31 

oesophagus.  Stricture  of  30 

Ointment,  Zinc  253 

Old  Sores  80 

Open  Joint  80 

Ophthalmia,  Contagious  62 

Ophthalmia,  Simple 61 

Ophthalmia,  Periodic 63 

Orchitis 52 

Organs,  Digestive — Diseases  of  15 

Organs,  Generative — Diseases  of 47 

Organs,  Respiration  or  Breathing — 

Diseases  of 35 

Organs,  Urinary — Diseases  of 43 

Osteo  Porosis  107 

Ostitis 74 

Otitis 63 

Over-Reaching 96 


P 

Palpitation 37 

Paralysis 67 

Paralysis  of  Hind  Quarters,  Partial.  45 

Paralysis  of  Pharynx  or  Throat 38 

Parts,  Wasting  Away  of 72 

Patella,  Dislocation  of ‘ 81 

Pericarditis  iii 

Periodic  Ophthalmia  63 

Peritonitis  22 


30© 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Pharyngitis  38 

Pharynx,  Paralysis  of  38 

Phlebitis  in 

Pink  Eye 102 

Pin  Worms  23,  253 

Placenta,  Removing  50 

Plethora  in 

Pleurisy 35 

Pneumonia  35 

Pneumothorax  41 

Points,  Good i 

Poisoned  Wounds 84 

Poisoning,  Blood in 

Polypus,  Nasal  41 

Poll- evil  2,  88,  89 

Powders,  Condition  no,  256,  257 

Pricking  86 

Profuse  Stalling  44 

Proper  Food  and  Feeding  10 

Proper  Shoeing  10 

Prolapsus  Ani 28 

Puerperal  Fever 51 

Puffs,  Wind  2,  92 

Pulling,  Halter 7 

Pumiced  Foot  97 

Punctured  Wounds  84 

Punctured  Wounds  of  Feet  85 

Punctures,  Nail 86 

Puncturing  to  Relieve  Bloat  17 

Purpura  Hemorrhagica in 

Pyaemia  in 

Q 

Quarter  Crack  2,  94 

Quittor  2,  94,  255 

R 

Rabies  65 

Rash,  Nettle 58 

Reaching,  Over 96 

Rectum,  Rupture  of  28 

Removing  Placenta  or  Afterbirth  50 

Respiratory  Organs,  Diseases  of  35 

Retention  of  Urine  43 

Retinitis  62 

Rheumatism  108 

Rheumatism  in  Colts  109 

Rickets  106 

Ridglings  53 

Ringbone  i,  77,  91 

Roaring 37 

Round  Worms  23 

Rupture  (See  “ Hernia.”)  22 

Rupture  of  Rectum  28 

Rupture  of  Stomach  20 

Rupture  of  Suspensory  Ligament  97 

Rupture  of  Womb  49 

S 

Saddle  Breaking  3 

Saddle  Galls  2,  89,  255 

Salivation  30 

Salve,  Healing  253 

Sand  Crack 94 


Scab  57 

Scalds  and  Burns  59 

Scratches  55,  80 

Screw  Worms 85 

Seedy  Toe  2 

Septicemia  in 

Serena,  Gutta 63 

Shifting  Lameness  108 

Shipping  Fever  104 

Shoe  Boil 2,  83 

Shoeing,  Proper 10 

Shoulder  Slip  72 

Shoulders,  Sore  89 

Shoulders,  Tender 255 

Sick  and  Injured,  Stable  Management 

OF II 

Sick,  Care  of ii 

Sick  Horses,  Food  and  Drinks  for 14 

Side- Bone  i,  92 

Simple  Ophthalmia 61 

SiTFASTS  58 

Skin,  Air  Under 85 

Skin,  Diseases  of 2,  55 

Slavering  29 

Slinking  of  Foal 47 

Slip,  Shoulder  72 

Snakes,  Bites  of  86 

Sole  of  Foot,  Bruises  of 81 

Soles,  Convex  99 

Soothing  Lotion  254 

Sore  Back  89 

Sore  Eyes  61 

Sore  Mouth  28 

Sore  Shoulders 89 

Sore  Throat 38 

Sore  Throat,  Malignant  39 

Sores  74,  80 

Soundness,  Examination  for  8 

Spasmodic  Colic  18 

Spasm  of  Diaphragm  37 

Spavin,  Blood  78 

Spavin,  Bog  2,  78 

Spavin,  Bone  .1,  76 

Spavins,  Home  Remedies  for 77 

Spaying  48 

Speedy  Cut  82 

Spleen,  Diseases  of in 

Splints  i,  77,  79 

Sprain  of  Stifle  Joint 81 

Sprains  2,  74 

Sprains  of  Tendons,  Ligaments  and 

Muscles  73 

Sprung  Hock  82 

Sprung  Knees  2 

Stable  Drugs,  Useful  246 

Stable  Management  of  Sick  and  In- 
jured   II 

Staggers,  Blind  65 

Staggers,  Stomach 20 

Stall,  Kicking  in  6 

Stalling,  Profuse  44 

Stiff  Joints  ^ 

Stifle  Joint,  Sprain  of  81 

Stifled  81 


STOCK  INDEX. 


301 


Stoma«h,  Diseases  of  

Stomach,  Gorged  

Stomach,  Inflammation  of 

Stomach,  Impaction  of  

Stomach,  Rupture  of 

Stomach  Staggers 

Stomatitis  

Stone  in  Bladder •. 

Stone  Bruises  

Strains  

Strangles  

Stricture  of  (Esophagus 

Striking  Fetlock  Joints  

Stringhalt  

Subdueing  Vicious  Horses  

Sucking  Wind 

Sunstroke  

Supply,  Water 

Surfeit  

Suspensory  Ligament,  Rupture  of 

Sweeny  2, 

Swelling  After  Castration  

Swelling  of  Belly  Before  Foaling  . . . 

Swellings 

Swollen  Joints  

Synovial  Membranes,  Diseases  of 

Synovitis  

System,  Nervous — Diseases  of  


15 

22 

21 

20 

20 

20 

28 

46 

81 


74 

103 

30 

96 


66 

4 

7 

66 


14 

58 

97 

72 

53 

51 

74 

109 

2 

2 

64 


T 

Tail,  Itching 57 

Tapeworms  23 

Tapping  Chest  iii 

Tapping  Large  Bowel 17 

Tea,  Hay 14 

Teeth  and  How  to  Tell  Age 8 

Teeth,  Caps  on 30 

Teeth,  Decayed  (Caries) 30 

Teeth,  Irregular  30 

Tender  Shoulders  255 

Tendons,  Bowed  2 

Tendons,  Diseases  of  2 

Tendons,  Sprains  of 73 

Test,  Mallein  108 

Testicles,  Inflammation  of 52 

Tetanus  64 

Thoroughpin  2,  78,  79 

Throat,  Abscess  in 39 

Throat,  Diseases  of  35 

Throat,  Malignant  Sore  39 

Throat,  Paralysis  of 38 

Throat,  Sore  -38 

Throat  Troubles  41 

Thrush  2,  95 

Thumps  37,  254 

Thyroid  Gland,  Enlargement  of  105 

Toe  Cracks 2 

Toe,  Seedy 2 

Tongue,  Inflammation  of  29 

Tongue,  Injuries  to  30 

Tracheotomy  39 

Training  Horses 3 

Tricks  of  Horse  Traders 267 


Troubles  Following  Castration 
Tubes,  Diseases  of  Bronchial  . 

Tumor,  Elbow  

Tumors  

Tumors,  Intestinal 


53 

35 


. ..  83 
58,  106 

. ..  24 


U 


Udder,  Inflammation  of 51 

Urethra,  Inflammation  of  52 

Urinary  Organs,  Diseases  of 43 

Urine,  Bloody  44 

Urine  Discharged  Through  Navel  ...  52 

Urine  Duct,  Inflammation  of  51 

Urine,  Incontinence  of  46 

Urine,  Retention  of 43 

Urticaria 58 

Useful  Stable  Drugs 246 

Uterus,  Eversion  of 49 


V 

Vagina,  Eversion  of  50 

Vagina,  Inflammation  of  49 

Vaginitis  49 

Various  Diseases  loi 

Veins,  Inflammation  of  iii 

Vertigo  65 

Vicious  Horses,  Subdueing 4 

Volvulus  27 


W 

Wall,  Cracks  in 

Warts  

Wasting  Away  of  Parts 

Water  Farcy  

Water  in  Chest 

Water  Supply  

Weakness  in  Legs  of  Foals 

Weed  

Whirlbone  Lameness 

Whistling  (See  “Roaring.”) 

White  Liniment 

Whites  

Wind,  Broken 

Wind  Colic 

Wind  Galls  

Wind  Puffs  

Wind  Sucking 

Withers,  Fistulous 

Womb,  Eversion  of 

Womb,  Inflammation  of  . . . . 

Womb,  Rupture  of 

Wounds 

Wounds,  Contused 

Wounds  of  Feet,  Punctured 

Wounds,  Incised  

Wounds  at  Joints  

Wounds,  Lacerated  

Wounds  of  Lips  

Wounds,  Poisoned  


94 

2,  59,  255 

72 

104 

41 

14 

106 

104 

80 

37 

251 

48 

36 

17 

....2,  92 

2,  92 

7 

88 

49 

49 


84 

85 
84 
84 
84 

86 

84 


302 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Wounds,  Punctured 

Worm  in  Eye 

Worms,  Intestinal  . 
Worms,  Long  Round 

Worms,  Pin  

Worms,  Screw 

Worms,  Tape  


84  Y 


Young  Colts,  Constipation  in  27 

23  Young  Colts,  Diarrhea  in 26 

23  Yellows  33 

23 

85  Z 

23  Zinc  Ointment  253 


CATTLE. 


• A 

Abortion 147 

Abortion,  Contagious  147 

Abscess i57 

Abscess,  Cold 180 

Abscess  of  Ear  163 

Actinomycosis  170 

Action  of  Drugs  in  Cattle 114 

Acute  Eczema  155 

Afterbirth,  Retention  of 141 

Ailments,  Kidney 138 

Air  in  Chest  137 

Air  Under  Skin  173 

Amaurosis 162 

Anemia  178 

Anasarca  132 

Anatomy  of  Cattle 112 

Ani,  Prolapsus  126 

Anthrax  167 

Apoplexy  175 

Apoplexy,  Parturient 144 

Apoplexy,  Splenic  167 

Appetite,  Depraved 121 

Ascites  132,  176 


B 

Back,  Grubs  in  158 

Bad  Blood  180 

BaO,  Milk  140 

Balanced  Rations  263 

Balls,  Hair  or  Binder  Twine 125 

Bandaging  Wounds  173 

Barrenness  in  Cows  and  Bulls 152 

Belly,  Dropsy  of  176 

Belly,  Dropsy  or  Swelling  of  Before 

Parturition 144 

Belly,  Tapping  the  176 

Binder  Twine  Balls 123 

Bites  of  Insects  and  Snakes  174 

Black-leg 166 

Black  Quarter  166 

Black  Tongue  129 

Bladder,  Diseases  of 138 

Bladder,  Gall  113 

Bladder,  Inflammation  of 13S 

Bladder  of  Ox  or  Bull,  Tapping 139 

Bladder,  Stone  in  139 

Bleeding  180,  251 

Bleeding  from  Navel  150 

Bloat  1 16 

Blocked  Teats 150 


Blood,  Bad  or  Impure 

Blood  Letting  

Blood  Poisoning  

Bloody  Flux  

Bloody  Milk 

Blind  Staggers  

Blindness,  Moon 

Blister  

Blister  and  Absorbent 

Bodies  in  Ear,  Foreign  

Bodies  in  Eye,  Foreign  

Bone,  Diseases  of  

Bone,  Fracture  of  Hip  

Bone,  Inflammation  of 

Bones,  Broken 

Bowels  

Bowel,  Falling  of 

Bowels,  Inflammation  of 

Breateiing,  Suspended  

Breathing  Organs,  Diseases  of 

Breeding  and  Feeding 

Broken  Bones  

Bronchitis 

Bronchitis,  Filaria 

Bronchocele  

Buffalo  Gnat  

Bull,  Genital  Organs  of  

Bull,  How  to  Ring 

Bull,  Tapping  Bladder  of 

Bulls,  Barrenness  in  

Bulls,  Castration  of  ’ 

Burns  


180 

180 

179 

123 

149 

175 

161 

254 

254 

163 

162 

180 


174 

180 


174 

113 

126 

124 

151 

133 

261 


174 

134 

134 

180 


159 

153 

179 

139 

152 

153 


156 


C 


Cv^:sarean  Operation  I43 

Caked  Udder  (Garget)  148 

Calculi  I39 

Calf-bed  Turned  Inside  Out 143 

Calves,  Castration  of  I53 

Calves,  Constipation  in  124 

Calves,  Indigestion  in  121 

Calves,  Inflammation  of  Joints  in  . . . 132 

Calves,  Killing  Horns  on  180 

Calves,  Suspended  Breathing  in 151 

Calves,  Y^hite  Scours  in  122 

Calving,  Closing  of  Neck  of  Womb  at  142 

Calving,  Dropsy  of  Womb  Before I44 

Calving  and  Foaling,  Difficult  140 

Calving,  Paralysis  After  144 

Calving,  Paralysis  of  Hind  Quarters 
Before  I44 


STOCK  INDEX. 


303 


Calving,  Symptoms  Just  Previous  to.. 

Cancer  in  Eye  

Caps  on  Teeth  

Capped  Elbow 

Caries  

Cartilage  of  Ear,  Disease  of 

Castration  of  Bulls  and  Calves 

Cataract  

Catarrh  

Catarrh,  Chronic  

Catarrh,  Gastric  

Catarrh,  Malignant  

Catarrh  of  Eyes 

Catarrhal  Affections  

Catarrhal  Fever  253, 

Catarrhal  Fever,  Malignant  (Malig- 
nant Catarrh)  

Cathartic  

Cerebro- Spinal  Meningitis  


Chapped  Teats  158, 

Cheeks  

Chest,  Air  or  Gas  in  

Chest,  Tapping  the  

Chest,  Water  in  137, 


Chills  

Choking  

Chronic  Catarrh  

Chronic  Eczema  

Chronic  Indigestion  

Chorea  

Cirrhosis  

Cleaning  

Closing  of  Neck  of  Womb  at  Calving 

Cold  Abscess  

Cold  in  Head 

Colds  

Colic  

Congestion  of  Liver  

CONJUN'^TIVITIS  

Constipation  

Constipation  in  Calves  

Consumption  (See  “ Tuberculosis.”)  ... 

Contagious  Abortion  

Contagious  Diseases 

Contagious  Eczema  

Contagious  Ophthalmia  

Contagious  Pleura-Pneumonia  

Cord,  Inflammation  of  Spinal 

Cornstalk  Disease  

Cough  251, 

Cow-Pox  

Cow,  Genital  Organs  of 

Cows,  Barrenness  in  

Cows,  Gestation  in 

Cracked  Teats  158, 

Cud,  Losing  

Cystitis  


140 

161 
128 
180 
128 
163 

153 

162 

135 

135 

122 

135 

161 

254 

254 


135 

252 

175 

255 

112 


137 

177 


176 

180 

131 

135 

155 


120 

176 

130 

141 

142 
180 


135 

254 


120 

130 

161 

123 

164 


147 

164 

165 

161 

168 

176 

125 

252 

167 

140 

152 

140 

252 


122 

138 


D 


Decayed  Teeth  128 

Dehorning  180 

Depraved  Appetite  121 

Diabetes  Insipidus  138 


Diaphragmatic  Hernia  128 

Diarrhea  119,  122 

Difficult  Calving  and  Foaling  140 

DIGESTIVE  ORGANS  112 

Cheeks  112 

Intestines  or  Bowels 113 

Liver  and  Gall  Bladder 113 

Pancreas  113 

Pharynx  and  Gullet  112 

Salivary  Glands  112 

Soft  Palate  112 

Spleen  113 

Stomach  113 

Teeth  112 

Tongue  112 

Upper  Lip  112 

Digestive  Organs,  Diseases  of  116 

Dilation  of  (Esophagus  132 

Disease,  Cornstalk  125 

Disease,  Fluke  131 

Disease,  Foot  and  Mouth  165 

Disease,  General  Symptoms  of  114 

Disease,  Loco  132 

Disease  of  Cartilage  of  Ear 163 

Disease  of  Spleen  176 

Diseases,  Contagious  164 

Diseases  of  Bone  180 

Disease  of  Digestive  Organs  116 

Diseases  of  Eye  and  Ear 161 

Diseases  of  Generative  Organs  140 

Diseases  of  Kidneys  and  Bladder 138 

Diseases  of  Respiratory  or  Breathing 

Organs  133 

Diseases  of  Skin  155 

Diseases  of  Urinary  Organs  138 

Diseases,  Various  170 

Dislocation  of  Eyeball 162 

Dislocation  of  Stifle  172 

Dropsy 132 

Dropsy  of  Belly  176 

Dropsy  of  Belly  Before  Parturition..  144 

Dropsy  of  Lungs  137 

Dropsy  of  Womb  Before  Calving  144 

Drugs,  Actio.n  of  114 

Drugs,  Useful  Stable  246 

Drying  Powder  254,  255 

Dysentery  123 


E 

Ear,  Abscess  of 163 

Ear,  Disease  of  Cartilage  of 163 

Ear,  Diseases  of  161 

Ear,  Foreign  Bodies  in  163 

Ear,  Inflammation  of  Internal 162 

Ear,  Injuries  to 174 

Ears,  Lacerated  163 

Eczema.  Acute  and  Chronic ”. . 155 

Eczema,  Contagious  165 

Elbow,  Capped  180 

Elbow  Tumor i 180 

Enlargement  of  Thyroid  Gland  180 

Enteritis  124 

Enuresis  139 


304 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Epilepsy  176 

Epizootic  i6q 

Erysipelas  156 

Eversion  of  Vagina  143 

Eversion  of  Womb  143 

Exhaustion,  Heat 175 

Exostosis  of  Jaw 171 

Eye,  Cancer  in  161 

Eye,  Diseases  of  161 

Eye,  Foreign  Bodies  in  162 

Eye,  Glass  162 

Eye,  Injuries  to 174 

Eye  Lotion  252,  253 

Eye,  Worm  in  161 

Eyeball,  Dislocation  of  162 

Eyelids,  Injuries  to  162 

Eyes,  Catarrh  of 161 

Eyes,  Inflamed  161 

Eyes,  Inflammation  of 161 

Eyes,  Sore  161 


F 

Falling  Fits  175 

Falling  of  Bowel 126 

Feeding  and  Breeding  261 

Feeding  Standards  263 

Fever,  Catarrhal  253,  254 

Fever,  Lung  133 

Fever,  Malignant  Catarrhal  (Malig- 
nant Catarrh)  135 

Fever,  Milk  144 

Fever,  Puerperal  146 

Fever,  Southern  168 

Fever,  Spanish  168 

Fever,  Splenic  168 

Fever,  Texas  168 

Fever,  Tick  168 

Fifty  Modern  Prescriptions  251 

Filaria  Bronchitis  134 

Fits  176 

Fits,  Falling  175 

Flesh,  Foul  173 

Flies,  To  keep  off  Stock  160 

Flooding  142 

Fluke  Disease 13 1 

Flux,  Bloody  123 

Fly,  Horn  159 

Food,  Stock  256,  257 

Foot  and  Mouth  Disease 165 

Foot- Evil  (See  “ Foot-Rot.”)  171 

Foot,  Foul  in 171 

Foot-Rot  171 

Foot  Soreness  172 

Foreign  Bodies  in  Ear  163 

Foreign  Bodies  in  Eye  162 

Foul  Flesh  173 

Foul  in  Foot  171 

Founder  172 

Fourth  Part  of  Stomach,  Inflamma- 
tion OF  1 19 

Fractures  174 

Fracture  of  Hip  Bone 174 

Frostbites  157 

Fungus  H.«:matodes 161 


G 

Gall  Bladder  113 

Garget 148 

Gas  in  Chest 137 

Gastric  Catarrh  122 

General  Symptoms  of  Disease 114 

Generative  Organs,  Diseases  of  140 

GENITAL  ORGANS  OF  BULL 153 

Penis  153 

Testicles  153 

GENITAL  ORGANS  OF  COW  140 

Ovaries  140 

Udder  or  Milk  Bag  140 

Womb,  Vagina,  Etc 140 

Gestation  in  Cows  140 

Giving  Medicine  to  Cattle 115 

Gland,  Mammary  140 

Gland,  Thyroid — Enlargement  of  180 

Glands,  Salivary  112 

Glass  Eye  162 

Gleet,  Nasal  135,  254 

Glossitis  129 

Goitre  180 

Gonorrhea 154 

Gnat,  Buffalo 159 

Gravel  139 

Grubs  in  Back 158 

Gullet 112 

Gutta  Serena  162 


H 

H.EMATODES,  FUNGUS  l6l 

H.ematuria  138 

Hair  Balls  125 

Hardening  of  Liver  130 

Haw,  Inflammation  of 161 

Head,  Cold  in  135 

HealinO  Lotion 251,  252,  253 

Healing  Salve 253 

Heat  Exhaustion  175 

Hemorrhage,  Uterine 142 

Hemorrhagica,  Purpura  179 

Hepatitis  130 

Hernia  126 

Hernia,  Diaphragmatic  128 

Hernia,  Inguinal  127 

Hernia,  Mesenteric  and  Omental 128 

Hernia,  Scrotal  127 

Hernia,  Umbilical  127 

Hernia,  Vaginal  128 

Hernia,  Ventral  126 

Hide-bound  156 

Hind  Quarters,  Paralysis  of  Before 

Calving 144 

Hip  Bone,  Fracture  of 174 

Hip  Joint  Lameness  174 

Hipped  174 

Hoof  Ointment  251,  252 

Hoof,  Loss  of 172 

Hoose  134 

Hollow  Horn i77 

Horn  Fly  iS9 

Horns  on  Calves,  KillinS 180 


STOCK  INDEX. 


305 


Hoven  ii6 

How  TO  Ring  a Bull 179 

Husk 134 

Hydrophobia  175 

Hydrothorax  137,  176 


Jaw,  Lumps  on  171 

Joint  Lameness,  Hip  174 

Joint,  Open  180 

Joint-Ill  152 

Joints  in  Calves,  Inflammation  of  . . . 152 

Joint,  Sprain  of  Stifle  172 


I 

III,  Joint 152 

Impaction  of  Manyplies  or  Omasum..  118 

Impaction  of  Paunch  or  Rumen 117 

Impure  Blood  180 

Incontinence  of  Urine  139 

Indigestion,  Chronic  120 

Indigestion  in  Young  Calves 121 

Indigestion,  Sub-acute 120 

Infectious  Scours  123 

Inflamed  Eyes  161 

Inflammation  of  Bladder  138 

Inflammation  of  Bone  180 

Inflammation  of  Bowels  124 

Inflammation  of  Eyes  161 

Inflammation  of  Fourth  Part  of 

Stomach  119 

Inflammation  of  Haw  161 

Inflammation  of  Internal  Ear  162 

Inflammation  of  Joints  in  Calves 152 

Inflammation  of  Kidneys  138 

Inflammation  of  Liver  130 

Inflammation  of  Lungs  133 

Inflammation  of  Membrana  Nictitans  161 

Inflammation  of  Navel  Urine  Duct.  . 151 

Inflammation  of  Spinal  Cord 176 

Inflammation  of  Testicles  153 

Inflammation  of  Tongue  129 

Inflammation  of  Udder  148 

Inflammation  of  Urethra  154 

Inflammation  of  Vagina  146 

Inflammation  of  Veins  179 

Inflammation  of  Womb  146 

Inflammations  

Influenza  169 

Inguinal  Hernia  127 

Injuries  to  Ear  I74 

Injuries  to  Eye  I74 

Injuries  to  Eyelids  162 

Injuries  to  Sheath  and  Penis 154 

Injuries  to  Tongue  129 

Insects,  Bites  of  I74 

Insipidus,  Diabetes  138 

Internal  Ear,  Inflammation  of 162 

Intestines  113 

Intestinal  Tumors  126 

Intussusception  126 

Iritis  161 

Irregular  Teeth  128 

Itch  I55 


J 


Jaundice  130 

Jaw,  Exostosis  of  171 

Jaw,  Locked  176 

Jaw,  Lump  170 


K 

Kidney  Ailments  

Kidneys,  Diseases  of  

Kidneys,  Inflammation  of 
Killing  Horns  on  Calves  . 


138 

138 

138 

180 


L 

Lacerated  Ears  163 

LaGrippe  169 

Lameness,  Hip  Joint  174 

Laminitis  172 

Laryngitis  136 

Leg,  Black  166 

Leucorrhea  147,  255 

Lice  158,  251 

Liniment,  Mild  Stable  251 

Liniment,  White  251 

Lip,  Upper  112 

Lips,  Wounds  of  174 

Liver  113 

Liver,  Congestion  of 130 

Liver,  Hardening  of  130 

Liver,  Inflammation  of  130 

Liver,  Worm  in 13 1 

Lockjaw  176 

Loco  Disease  132 

Losing  Cud  122 

Loss  OF  Hoof  172 

Lotion,  Cooling  Astringent  253 

Lotion,  Eye  252,  253 

Lotion,  Healing  251,  252,  253 

Lotion,  Soothing  254 

Lump  Jaw  170 

Lumps  on  Jaw  171 

Lung  Fever 133 

Lungs,  Dropsy  of  137 

Lungs,  Inflammation  of  133 


M 

Maggots  in  Wounds  173 

Malignant  Sore  Throat  136 

Malignant  Catarrhal  Fe\^r  (Malig- 
nant Catarrh)  135 

Malignant  Cat.vrrh  .* 135 

Malpresentation  140 

Mammary  Gland  140 

Mammitis  148 

Mange  155 

Manyplies,  Impaction  of  118 

Mawbound  1 18 

Meconium,  Retention  of  124 

Medicine,  Giving  to  Cattle 115 

Membrana  Nictitans — Inflammation  of  161 

Meningitis,  Cerebro-Spinal  175 

Mesenteric  Hernia  128 


306 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Metritis  146 

Milk  Bag  140 

Milk,  Bloody  149 

Milk  Fever  144 

Milk,  Stringy  149 

Milk  Tube,  Passing  150 

Modern  Prescriptions 251 

Mouth  and  Foot  Disease 165 

Mouth,  Sore  129 

Moon  Blindness  161 

Myelitis  176 


N 

Nasal  Gleet  135,  254 

Nasal  Polypus  137 

Navel,  Bleeding  from  150 

Navel  Rupture 127 

Navel,  Urine  Discharged  Through...  151 
Navel  Urine  Duct,  Inflammation  of..  151 
Neck  of  Womb,  Closing  of  at  Calving  142 

Nettle  Rash  156 

Nephritis  138 

Nymphomania  148 

O 

(Esophagus,  Dilation  of  132 

(Esophagus,  Stricture  of  132 

Off-Feed  120 

Ointment,  Hoof  251,  252 

Ointment,  Zinc  253 

Omasum,  Impaction  of  118 

Omental  Hernia  128 

Open  Joint  180 

Operation,  Caesarean  143 

Ophthalmia  161 

Ophthalmia,  Contagious  161 

Ophthalmia,  Periodic  161 

Orchitis  153 

Organs,  Digestive 112 

Organs,  Digestive — Diseases  of 116 

Organs,  Diseases  of  Generative  140 

Organs,  Diseases  of  Respiratory  or 

Breathing  133 

Organs,  Diseases  of  Urinary 138 

Organs  of  Bull,  Genital  153 

Organs  of  Cow,  Genital  140 

Organs,  Respiratory  113 

Organs,  Urinary  113 

Ostitis  180 

Otitis  162 

Ovaries  140 

Ox,  Tapping  Bladder  of 139 


P 

Palate,  Soft 112 

Pancreas  113* 

Paralysis  176 

Paralysis  After  Calving  144 

Paralysis  of  Hind  Quarters  Before 

Calving  144 

Parturient  Apoplexy  144 


Parturition,  Dropsy  or  Swelling  of 

Belly  Before  

Parturition,  Symptoms  Just  Previous 

to  

Passing  Milking  Tube  

Paunch,  Impaction  of 

Paunch,  Tapping  

Penis,  Injuries  to  

Pericarditis  

Periodic  Ophthalmia  

Peritonitis  

Pharynx  

Phlebitis  

Pink  Eye  

Pin  Worms  

Placenta,  Retention  of 

Plethora  

Pleura-Pneumonia,  Contagious 

Pleurisy  

Pneumonia  .• 

Pneumothorax  

Poisoning,  Blood  

Polypus,  Nasal  

Pregnancy  and  How  to  Tell  It 

Prescriptions,  Fifty  Modern  

Profuse  Urination  

Prolapsus  Ani 

Puerperal  Fever 

Pulse 

Purpura  Hemorrhagica 

Pyemia  


144 

140 

150 

117 

117 

154 

178 

161 

125 

112 


253 

141 

178 
168 
134 
133 
137 

179 

137 

140 

251 

138 
126 
146 

113 

179 

179 


Q 

Quarter,  Black  


166 


R 

Rabies  175 

Rash,  Nettle  156 

Rations,  Balanced  265 

Rectum,  Rupture  of  126 

Red  Water 138 

Remastication  122 

Respiration  114 

Respiratory  Organs  113 

Respiratory  Organs,  Diseases  of  133 

Retention  of  Meconium  124 

Retention  of  Placenta  or  Afterbirth  141 

Retinitis  161 

Rheumatism  177 

Rickets  180 

Ridgltng  Bulls  or  Rigs  153 

Ring  a Bull,  How  to  179 

Ringworm  156 

Rot,  Foot  * 171 

Rumen,  Impaction  of  117 

Rumen,  Tapping  117 

Rumenotomy  118 

Rupture  126 

Rupture,  Navel  127 

Rupture  of  Rectum  126 

Rupture  of  Stomach  119 

Rupture  of  Womb  143 


STOCK  INDEX. 


307 


S 


Salivary  Glands  

Salve,  Healing  

Scab  

Scalds  

Scours  

Scours  in  Calves,  White  

Scours,  Infectious  

Screw  Worms  in  Wounds  

Scrotal  Hernia  

Septicemia  

Serena,  Gutta 

Sheath,  Injuries  to 

Skin,  Air  Under  

Skin,  Diseases  of  

Slavering  

Snakes,  Bites  of  

Soft  Palate  

Soothing  Lotion  

Sore  Eyes  

Sore  Moutei  

Sore  Teats  

Sore  Throat  

Sore  Throat,  Malignant  

Soreness,  Foot  

Sores  

Southern  Fever  

Spanish  Fever  

Spavin  

Spaying  

Spinal  Cord,  Inflammation  of 

Spleen  

Spleen,  Diseases  of  

Splenic  Apoplexy  

Splenic  Fever  

Sprain  of  Stifle  Joint  

Sprains  

Stable  Drugs,  Useful  

Stable  Liniment,  ]\Iild  

Staggers,  Blind  

Standards,  Feeding  

Stifle,  Dislocation  of  

Stifle  Joint,  Sprain  of  

Stitching  Wounds  

Stock  Food  256, 

Stock  Tonic  

Stomach  

Stomach,  Inflammation  of  Fourth 

Part  of 

Stomach,  Rupture  of  

Stomatitis  

Stone  in  Bladder 

Stricture  of  CEsophagus 

Stricture  of  Teats  

Stringy  Milk  

Sub-acute  Indigestion  

Sunstroke  

Surfeit  

Suspended  Breathing  in  Calves  


112 

253 

155 

156 
119 

122 

123 

173 

127 

179 

16? 

154 

173 

155 

130 

174 

112 

254 

1 61 
129 

158 

136 

136 

172 


168 

172 

152 

176 

113 

176 

167 

168 

172 

173 

246 

251 

175 

263 

172 

172 

173 
257 
256 
1 13 

119 

1 19 
129 

139 

132 

150 
149 

120 

175 

156 

151 


Swelling  of  Belly  Before  Parturition  144 

Symptoms  of  Disease,  General 114 

Symptoms  Just  Previous  to  Parturition 
or  CalvinO  140 


T 

Tail,  Wolf  in  

Tapping  the  Belly  

Tapping  Bladder  of  Ox  or  Bull 

Tapping  the  Chest 

Tapping  the  Paunch  or  Rumen 

Teats,  Blocked  

Teats,  Chapped  

Teats,  Cracked  

Teats,  Small  Warts  on  

Teats,  Sore  

Teats,  Stricture  of 

Teeth  

Teeth,  Caps  on  

Teeth,  Decayed  

Teeth,  Irregular  

Temperature  

Test,  Tuberculin  

Testicles,  Inflammation  of  

Tetanus  

Texas  Fever  

Throat,  Malignant  Sore  

T HROAT,  Sore  

Thyroid  Gland,  Enlargement  of 

Tick  Fever  

Tongue  

Tongue,  Black  

Tongue,  Inflammation  of  

Tongue,  Injuries  to 

Tonic,  Stock  

Tracheotomy  

Tube,  Milking  

Tuberculin  Test 

Tuberculosis  

Tumor,  Elbow  

Tumors  

Tumors,  Intestinai 

Tympanites  


. ...  177 
....  176 
....  139 
. ...  177 
....  117 
....  150 
158,  25s 
158,  252 
....  158 
....  158 
. ...  150 

112 

....  128 

128 

128 

. ...  114 

165 

. ...  153 

. ...  176 
....  168 

136 

. ...  136 

180 

....  168 

112 

129 

129 

129 

. ...  256 
. ...  137 
. ...  150 
. ...  165 

164 

180 

157,  180 

126 

116 


U 

Udder  140 

Udder,  Caked  (Garget)  148 

Udder,  Inflammation  of 148 

Umbilical  Hernia  127 

Upper  Lip  112 

Ura2mia  139 

Urethra,  Inflammation  of 154 

Urinary  Organs  113 

Urinary  Organs,  Diseases  of 138 

Urination,  Profuse  138 

Urine  Discharged  Through  Navel  ...  151 
Urine  Duct,  Inflammation  of  Navel..  151 

Urine,  Incontinence  of  139 

Urticaria  156 

Useful  Stable  Drugs  246 

Uterine  Hemorrhage  142 

V ‘ 

Vagina  140 

Vagina,  Eversion  of  143 

Vagina,  Inflammation  of  146 

Vaginal  Hernia  128 


308 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Vaginitis  146 

Variola  Vaccina  167 

Vafious  Diseases  170 

Veins,  Inflammation  of 179 

Ventral  Hernia  126 

Vertigo  175 

Vomiting  130 

W 

Warbles  158 

Warts  1 57,  255 

Warts  on  Teats  158 

Water  in  Chest  137,  176 

Water,  Red  138 

White  Liniment  251 

White  Scours  in  Calves  122 

Whites  147 

Wolf  in  Tail 177 

Womb  140 

Womb,  Closing  of  Neck  at  Calving 142 

Womb,  Dropsy  of  Before  Calving 144 


W'omb,  Eversion  of  

Womb,  Inflammation  of  

Womb,  Rupture  of  

Womb  Turned  Inside  Out  

Worm  in  Eye 

Worm  in  Liver  

Worms  

Worms,  Pin  

Worms,  Screw  

Wounds  

Wounds,  Bandaging  and  Stitching  . . . 

Wounds  of  Lips  

Wounds,  Maggots  in  

Wounds,  Screw  Worms  in  

Y 

Yellows  

Young  Calves,  Indigestion  in 

Z 

Zinc  Ointment  


143 

146 

143 

143 

161 

131 

126 


253 

173 

173 

173 

174 
173 
173 


130 

121 


253 


A 

Appetite,  Loss  of  

B 

Bloating 

Bones,  Broken 

Bowels,  Inflammation  of 

Breathing  Organs,  Diseases  of 

Breeding  and  Feeding 

Broken  Bones  

Bronchitis  

Bronchitis,  Filaria 

C 

Castrating  Lambs  

Castrating  Rams  

Catarrh  

Choking  

Cholera,  Lamb 

Cleaning  

Cold  in  Head 

Colic  

Constipation  

D 

Diarrhea  in  Lambs 

Difficult  Lambing  

Digestive  Organs,  Diseases  of  

Disease,  Fluke  

Disease,  Nodular  

Diseased  Teeth  

Diseases  of  Digestive  Organs 

Diseases  of  Generative  Organs 

Diseases  of  Respiratory  or  Breathing 

Organs  

Diseases,  Various  

Distemper  


SHEEP. 

Docking  

jg^  Drugs,  Useful  Stable  

Dysentery  

181  E 

196  Enteritis  

182  Eversion  of  Womb  

187  Eyes,  Inflamed  

261 

196  F 

188 

Feeding  and  Breeding  

Feet,  Swollen  

Fifty  Modern  Prescriptions  . . . 

Filaria  Bronchitis  

^91  Fluke  Disease 

^92  Fluke  Worms  

i°7  Foot-Rot 

Founder  

Fractures  

191 

187  Q 

o Garget  

^ Generative  Organs,  Diseases  of 
Grubs  in  Head  


igi  Head,  Cold  in  

ig^  Head,  Grubs  in  

ig^  Hoven  

184  Hydrophobia  

181 

190  I 

III,  Louping  

187  Impaction  of  Rumen  . . . 

193  Inflamed  Eyes  

187  Inflammation  of  Bowels 


196 

246 

182 


182 

191 

195 


261 

196 

251 

188 

184 

184 

193 

196 

196 


190 

190 

194 


187 

194 

181 

197 


195 

182 


195 

182 


STOCK  INDEX. 


309 


Inflammation  of  Testicles 
Inflammation  of  Udder  ... 

J 

Jaw,  Locked  

L 

Lamb  Cholera  

Lambing  

Lambing,  Difficult  

Lames,  Castrating 

Lambs,  Constipation  in  .... 

Lambs,  Diarrhea  in  

Liver-Rot  

Lockjaw  

Loss  OF  Appetite 

Louping  III 


M 

Maggots  in  Wounds  

Mammitis  

Modern  Prescriptions,  Fifty 
Mouth,  Sore 

N 

Nodular  Disease  


O 

Ophthalmia  

Organs,  Diseases  of  Digestive  

Organs,  Diseases  of  Generative  . . . 
Organs,  Diseases  of  Respiratory  or 
Breathing  

P 

Placenta  Not  Coming  Away  

Pneumonia  

Prescriptions,  Fifty  Modern  

R 

Rabies  

Rams,  Castrating  


191 

190 


197 


181 

190 

190 

191 

183 

182 

184 

197 

184 

195 


196 

190 

251 

187 


18^ 


Respiratory  Organs,  Diseases  of 187 

Rot,  Foot  193 

Rumen,  Impaction  of  182 

S 

Scab  195 

Shedding  Temporary  Teeth 184 

Shedding  Wool  196 

Sore  Mouth  187 

Sore  Throat  187 

Stable  Drugs,  Useful  246 

Staggers  184 

Stomach  Worms  183 

Stretches  181 

Swollen  Feet 196 


T 

Tapeworms  184 

Teeth,  Diseased  184 

Teeth,  Shedding  Temporary  184 

Temporary  Teeth,  Shedding  184 

Testicles,  Inflammation  of  191 

Tetanus  197 

Throat,  Sore  187 

Ticks  194 

Tympanites  181 


195  U 

Udder,  Inflammation  of  190 

190  Useful  Stable  Drugs  246 


Various  Diseasi  s 193 

191 

189  W 

251  Womb,  Eversion  of 191 

Wool- Shedding  196 

Worms,  Fluke  184 

197  Worms,  Stomach  183 

192  Wounds,  Maggots  in 196 


hogs. 


A 

Acute  Indigestion  199 

Age,  How  to  Tell  222 

Amaurosis  220 

Ani,  Prolapsus  204 

Anthrax,  Gloss  205 

Aphtha,  Sporadic 205 

Apoplexy  221 

Apoplexy,  Pulmonary  209 

Apoplexy  of  Lungs  209 

Appetite,  Morbid 199 

B 

Back,  Weak  203 

Black  Teeth  205 

Bleeding  from  Stomach  200 


Blind  Staggers  221 

Bowel,  Falling  of  204 

Bowels,  Inflammation  of  199 

Bowels,  Obstruction  of 202 

Brain,  Inflammation  of  220 

Breathing  Organs,  Diseases  of 209 

Breeding  and  Feeding 261 

Bronchial  Tubes,  Inflammation  of...  209 
Bronchitis  209 

C 

Cancer  of  Tail 213 

Care,  Feeding  and  Raising 223 

Castration  218 

Catarrh,  Chronic  Nasal 212 

Catarrh,  Malignant  212 


310 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


Catarrh,  Nasal  21 1 

Choking  205 

Cholera,  Hog  206 

Cholera,  How  to  Prevent  by  Vaccina- 
tion   207 

Cholera,  Preventing  the  Spreading  of.  207 

Chorea  222 

Chronic  Indigestion  199 

Chronic  Laryngitis  21 1 

Chronic  Nasal  Catarrh  212 

Colds  »2ii 

C*LTC  200 

Congestion  of  Lungs  209 

Constipation  201 

Coughs  21 1 

1 

Ears,  Sores  Back  of 213 

Eating  Pigs  217 

Enteritis  199 

Epilepsy  221 

Erysipelas  215 

Eversion  of  Womb 217 

Eyeball,  Diseases  of 220 

F 

Falling  of  Bowel 204 

Farrowing  217 

Feeding 223 

Feeding  and  Breeding  261 

Feet,  Sore  219 

Fever,  Lung  209 

Fever,  Scarlet  215 

Fifty  Modern  Prescriptions  251 

Fits  in  Pigs  203 

Founder  219 

G 

Gastritis  198 

Generative  Organs,  Diseases  of  217 

Gleet,  Nasal  212 

Gloss  Anthrax 205 

Gum  Mouth  205 


H 

Health,  Keeping  Hogs  in 222 

Heart,  Palpitation  of  219 

Hemorrhoids 204 

Hernia,  Scrotal  204 

Hernia,  Umbilical 203 

Hog  Cholera 206 

How  TO  Prevent  Cholera  and  Plague 

BY  Vaccination  207 

How  TO  Tell  the  Age  of  a Pig 222 

I 

Indigestion  198 

Indigestion,  Acute 199 

Indigestion,  Chronic  199 

Inflamed  Udder 218 

Inflammation  of  Bowels  199 

Inflammation  of  Brain  and  Mem- 
branes   220 


Inflammation  of  Bronchial  Tubes  ...  209 


Inflammation  of  Lungs  209 

Inflammation  of  Nostrils  21 1 

Inflammation  of  Peritoneum  203 

Inflammation  of  Pleura  210 

Inflammation  of  Stomach  198 

Inflammation  of  Tonsils  210 

Inflammation  of  Womb  218 

Internal  Parasites  202 


Jaundice 


J 


205 


K 

Keeping  Hogs  in  Health 
Kidney  Worms  


L 

Lameness  

Laryngitis  . . . t 

Laryngitis,  Chronic  

Lice  

Lichen  

Liver  Disease  

Lung  Fever 

Lungs,  Apoplexy  of 

Lungs,  Congestion  of  . . . 
Lungs,  Inflammation  of 


222 

203 


202 

210 

21 1 
216 
214 
205 
209 
209 
209 
209 


M 

Malignant  Catarrh  212 

Mange 214 

Measles  214 

Membranes  of  Brain,  Inflammation  of  220 

Meningitis  220 

Modern  Prescriptions 251 

Morbid  Appetite  199 

Mouth,  Gum  205 


N 

Nasal  Catarrh  21 1 

Nasal  Catarrh,  Chronic  212 

Nasal  Gleet 212 

Nettle  Rash  213 

Nostrils,  Inflammation  OF 211 


O 

Obstruction  of  Bowels  202 

Organs,  Diseases  of  Digestive  198 

Organs,  Diseases  of  Generative  217 

Organs,  Diseases  of  Respiratory  ob 

Breathing  209 

Ozena  212 


P 

Palpitation  of  Heart  219 

Paralysis  222 

Paralysis  of  Retina  220 

Parasites,  Intern ai 202 

Peritoneum,  Inflammation  of  203 

Peritonitis  203 

Pharyngitis  210 

Phrenitis  220 

Pig,  Hew  to  Tell  Age  of  222 

Pig,  Stomach  of  198 


STOCK  INDEX. 


311 


Pigging  217 

Pigs,  Eating  of 217 

Pigs,  Fits  in 203 

Pigs,  Scours  in  201 

Piles  204 

Plague,  Swine 206 

Pleura,  Inflammation  of 210 

Pleurisy  210 

Pneumonia  209 

Prescriptions,  Fifty  Modern  251 

Preventing  the  Spreading  of  Cholera 

AND  Plague  207 

Prolapsus  Ani  204 

Prurigo  213 

Pulmonary  Apoplexy 209 

^ Q 

Quinsy  210 


Stomach,  Inflammation  or 198 

Stomach  of  Pig  i^ 

Stricture  of  Rectum 204 

Stunted  199 

Surfeit  213 

Swine  Plague  206 

Swine  Plague,  How  to  Prevent  by 

Vaccination  207 

Swine  Plague,  Preventing  Spreading 

OF 207 

T 

Tail,  Cancer  of  213 

Teeth,  Black  205 

Throat,  Sore  210 

Thumps  219 

Tonsils,  Inflammation  of  210 

Tubes,  Bronchial — Inflammation  of,.  209 


R 

Raising  Hogs 223 

Rash,  Nettle 213 

Rectum,  Stricture  of  204 

Respiratory  Organs,  Diseases  of  209 

Retina,  Paralysis  of  220 

Rheumatism  219 

Ringworm  215 

Rupture  (Hernia)  203,  204 

S 

Scarlet  Fever  215 

Scours  in  Pigs 201 

Scrotal  Hernia  204 

Scurf  214 

Skin,  Diseases  of  213 

Snuffles  211 

Sore  Feet  219 

Sore  Throat  210 

Sores  Back  of  Ears  213 

Sporadic  Aphtha  205 

Stable  Drugs,  Useful  246 

Staggers,  Blind 221 

Stomach,  Bleeding  from  200 


U 

Udder,  Inflamed  

Umbilical  Hernia  

Urticaria  

Useful  Stable  Drugs  . 


218 

203 

213 

246 


V 

Vaccination  to  Prevent  Cholera  and 


Plague  207 

Various  Diseases  219 

Vomiting  200. 

W 

Warts  215 

Weak  Back  203 

Womb,  Inflammation  of 218 

Womb,  Eversion  of  217 

Worms 202 

Worms,  Kidney  203 

Wounds  220 


Y 


Yellows  205 

Young  Pigs,  Fits  in  203 


poultry. 


A 

Apoplexy  228 

B 

Black  Head  231 

Bowel  and  Liver  Disease,  Contagious.  . 231 

Bowel  Disease,  Parasitic 231 

Bronchitis  226 

C 

Canker 227 

Caponizing 233 

Catarrh  226 

Chicken  Cholera 230 

Chickens,  How  to  Make  Money  on 234 

Cholera,  Chicken  230 


Contagious  Bowel  and  Liver  Disease..  231 


Crop-bound  227 

D 

Diarrhea  230 

Diarrhea,  White  232 

Diphtheria  226 

Disease,  Parasitic  Bowel 231 

E 

Eating  Eggs  232 

Eating  Feathers 232 

Egg  Eating  232 

Egg  Passage,  Inflammation  of  227 

Epizootic 227 


312 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


F 

Fifty  Modern  Prescriptions  251 

Feathers,  Pulling  and  Eating  232 

Food,  Poultry  256 


G 

Gapes  225 

H 

Head,  Black  231 

How  TO  Make  Money  on  Chickens 234 

I 

Inflammation  of  Egg  Passage 227 

L 

Leg  Weakness  229 

Legs,  Scaly 228 

Lice  231 

Liver  and  Bowel  Disease,  Contagious.  231 


P 

Parasitic  Bowel  Disease  231 

Pip  224 

Poultry  Food  256 

Poultry  Tonic  232,  256 

Poultry  Secrets,  Valuable 233 

Prescriptions,  Fifty  Modern  251 

Pulling  and  Eating  Feathers  232 

R 

Rheumatism  228 

Roup  224,  255 


S 

Scaly  Legs  

Secrets,  Valuable  Poultry 
Sprouted  Oats  


228 

233 

233 


Tonic,  Poultry 


T 


232,  256 


M 

Modern  Prescriptions,  Fifty  

Money,  How  to  Make  on  Chickens 

O 

Oats,  Sprouted  


V 

\"aluable  Poultry  Secrets 

231 

234  W 

Weakness,  Leg  

White  Diarrhea  

233  Worms  


233 


229 

232 

229 


HOUSEHOLD  PETS. 


DOGS. 

B 

Bones,  Broken  

Bowels,  Inflammation  of 
Broken  Bones  


C 

Canine  Distemper  . . , 

Canker  of  Ear  

Castration  

Chorea  

Colic  

Cough  


D 

Distemper,  Canine  . . . 
Drugs  ' 


E 

Ear,  Canker  of  

Eyes,  Inflammation  of 

F 

Feeding  

Fever,  Lung  

Fleas  

Fractures  


G 


H 

Hernia  

Hydrophobia  

239 

240 

239 

240 

I 

Inflammation  of  Eyes  

238 

Inflammation  of  Bowels  

239 

236 

Inflammation  of  Lungs  

238 

239 

240 

K 

240 

Kidneys,  W^orms  in  

240 

239 

239 

L 

Lice  

237 

236 

Lung  Fever  

238 

Lungs,  Inflammation  of  

238 

246 

M 

Mange  

236 

239 

238 

Modern  Prescriptions  

251 

236 

0 

Ophthalmia  

238 

238 

238 

P 

240 

Parturition  

Pneumonia  

Prescriptions,  Modern  

251 

240 

Pupping  

239 

Gonorrhea 


R 


313 


STOCK  INDEX. 


Rabies  . . . 
Ringworm 
Rupture  . 


S 

Spaying  

T 

Tumors  

W 

Warts  

Worms  , 

Worms  in  Kidneys  . . . 
Wounds  


CATS. 

B 

Bronchitis  

C 

Canker  of  Ear  

Castrating  

Catarrh  

Claws  

Cold  in  Head 

Constipation  

Convulsions  


D 

Diarrhea  

Disease,  General  Symptoms  of 

Diseases,  Eye  

Distemper  

Drugs  


E 

Ear,  Canker  of  

Eczema  

Epilepsy  

Eye  Diseases  


F 

Fever,  Milk  

Fits  


240 

237 

239 


240 


Fleas  

Follicular  Mange 


G 

Gastritis  

General  Symptoms  of  Disease 

Giving  Medicines  

Glanders  


243 

243 


242 

241 
244 

242 


239 

Head,  Cold  in 


H 


241 


239 

238 

240 

239 


241 


243 

244 

241 

244 

241 

242 

243 


242 

241 

244 

242 
246 


243 

242 

243 

244 


M 

Mange,  Follicular  243 

Mange,  Sarcoptic  243 

Medicines,  Giving  244 

Milk  Fever  243 

Modern  Prescriptions  251 

P 

Pneumonia  241 

Poisoning  244 

Prescriptions,  Modern  251 

R 

Ringworm  244 

S 

Sarcoptic  Mange  243 

Spaying  245 

Stomach  Worms  244 

Symptoms  of  Disease,  General  241 

T 

Tapeworm  244 

Teeth  244 

Trichina  244 

Tuberculosis  242 


W 

Worms,  Stomach  


244 


243  Y 

243  Yellows  242 


miscellaneous. 

A 


Analysis,  Food  263 

Analyses,  Food-Table  of  265 

B 

Balanced  Rations  265 

Breeding  261 

Breeding  and  Feeding  Live  Stock  for 
Profit  261 


C 

Condition  Powders  256,  257 

D 

Dictionary  of  Medical  and  Veterinary 

Terms  270 

DRUGS,  USEFUL  STABLE  246 

Acetanilide  246 

Acetic  Acid  246 

Aconite  ..  , 246 


314 


THE  PEOPLE’S  HOME  STOCK  BOOK. 


DRUGS,  USEFUL  STABLE— 

Alcohol  

Aloes  

Alum  

Areca  Nut  

Ammonia  

Arnica  

Arsenic  

Belladonna  

Buchu  

Borax  

Boric  Acid  

Bismuth  

Bromide  of  Potash 

Black  Haw  

Calomel  

Copperas  

Cannabis  Indica  

Camphor  

Cantharides  (Spanish  Fly)  

Caraway  Seed 

Chloral  Hydrate 

Colodium  Flexible  

Corrosive  Sublimate  

Digitalis  

Epsom  Salts  (Sulphate  of  Magnesia) 

Ergot  

Ether  (Sulphuric  Ether)  

Formalin  or  Formaldehyde  

Gentian  

Ginger  

Glauber’s  Salts  (Sulphate  Soda)  .... 

Iodine  

Lime  

Lobelia  

Mustard  (Sinapis)  

Nux  Vomica  

Opium  

Poke  (Phytolacca)  

Resin  

Saltpeter  (Nitrate  of  Potash)  

Soda  

Sugar  of  Lead  (Acetate  of  Lead)  ... 

Sulphate  of  Zinc  

Sweet  Spirits  of  Nitre 

Tannin  (Tanic  Acid)  

Turpentine  (Oil  of  Turpentine)  

Vinegar  (Acetic  Acid)  

E 

Elements  of  Food,  Essential  

F 

FEEDING  

Balanced  Rations  

Essential  Element-?-  of  Food  

Feeding  Standards  

Food  Analysis  

Nutritive  Ratio 

Table  of  Food  Analyses  

Feeding  and  Breeding  Live  Stock  for 
Profit  

Feeding  Standards 


Fifty  Modern  Prescriptions 251 

Food  Analysis  263 

Food  Analyses,  Table  of  265 

Food,  Essential  Elements  of  263 

Food,  Poultry  256 

Food,  Stock  256,  257 

G 

Glossary  270 

H 

Horse  Traders,  Tricks  of  267 

I 

Instruments  and  Tools,  Useful 258 

Instruments,  Useful  Surgical 259 

L 

Live  Stock,  Feeding  and  Breeding  for 
Profit  261 

M 

Medical  Terms,  Dictionary  of 270 

Modern  Prescriptions,  Fifty  251 

N 

Nutritive  Ratio  264 

P 

Poultry  Food  256 

Poultry  Tonic  256 

Powder,  Condition  256,  257 

Powder,  Tonic  257 

PRESCRIPTIONS,  FIFTY  MODERN  251 

Blister  254 

Blister  and  Absorbent  254 

Canker  of  Ear  252 

Cathartic  for  Cattle  252 

Cathartic  for  Horses  252 

Colds  and  Catarrhal  Affections  254 

Colic  Mixture  253 

Colic  Mixture  (Flatulent)  253 

Cooling  Astringent  Lotion  253 

Cough  Mixture  251,  252 

Drying  Healing  Powder  255 

Drying  Powder  254 

Eye  Lotion  252,  253 

For  Catarrhal  Fever  253,  254 

For  Cracked  Heels  in  Horses  and 

Chapped  Teats  in  Cows  255 

For  Cracked  Teats  in  Cows  252 

For  Destroying  Pin  W^orms 253 

For  Goitre  252 

For  Killing  Lice  251 

I"or  Leucorrhea  255 

I'or  Nasal  Gleet  254 

For  Removing  Warts  255 

For  Roup  in  Chickens 255 

For  Stopping  Bleeding  251 

For  Quittor  255 

I'or  Thumps  254 

For  Tender  Shoulders  and  Collar  and 
Saddle  Galls  255 


246 

246 

2^ 

246 

246 

246 

246 

246 

247 

247 

247 

247 

247 

.247 

247 

247 

247 

247 

247 

247 

247 

248 

248 

248 

248 

248 

248 

248 

248 

248 

249 

249 

249 

249 

249 

249 

249 

249 

249 

249 

250 

250 

250 

250 

250 

250 

250 

263 

262 

265 

263 

263 

263 

264 

265 

261 

263 


STOCK  INDEX. 


315 


PRESCRIPTIONS,  FIFTY  MODERN 


— Continued. 

Flealing  Lotion  251,  252, 

Healing  Salve  

Hoof  Ointment  251, 


Mild  Stable  Liniment  

Soothing  Lotion  

White  Liniment  

Zinc  Ointment  

Profit,  Breeding!  and  Feeding  Live 
Stock  for  

R 

Ratio,  Nutritive 

Rations,  Balanced  

S 

Stable  Drugs,  Useful  

Standards,  Feeding  

Stock,  Breeding  and  Feeding  for  Profit 

Stock  Food  256, 

Stock  Foods,  Condition  Powders  and 

Poultry  Foods  

Stock  Tonic  

Supplement  

Surgical  Instruments,  Useful  

T 

Table  of  Food  Analyses  

Tonic  Powder  

Tonic,  Poultry  


Tonic,  Stock  256 

Tools  and  Instruments,  Useful 258 

TRICKS  OF  HORSE  TRADERS  ....  267 

“ Bishoping  ” 268 

Blowing  Up  Old  and  Sweenied  Horses  267 

Dieting  and  Doping  a Heaver  267 

“ Doctoring  ” a Cribber 268 

Gingering  267 

Hiding  Lameness 268 

Hiding  Spavins,  Ringbones  and  Side- 

bones  268 

Matching  a Fractious  Horse  with  a 

Lazy  One  269 

Paralyzing  a Switcher 267 

Plugging  a Roarer  or  Whistler  267 

Putting  Harness  Galls  on  a Balky 

Horse  268 

Stuffing  the  Ears  269 

The  Dark  I'rick  269 

The  Meaning  of  Many  Scars  269 

The  “ Stool  Pigeon  ” Swindler 269 

The  Straw  and  Stringhalt  Trick 269 

Winding  a Horse  268 

U 

Useful  Instruments  and  Tools  25S 

Useful  Stable  Drugs  246 

Useful  Surgical  Instruments  259 

V 

Veterinary  Terms,  Dictionary  of 270 


253 

253 

252 

251 

254 

251 

253 

261 

264 

265 

246 

263 

261 

257 

256 

256 

292 

259 

265 

257 

256 


1 i 

■i 


