:\ 


heasant 


SIR  GEORGE  STEPHEN  B.ART 


FUR   AND   FEATHER   SERIES 

edited  by 
ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON 


THE    PHEASANT 


FUR     AND     FEATHER     SERIES. 

EDITED  BY  ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON. 


THE    PARTRIDGE.       NATURAL   HISTORY—  By  the 

Rev.  H.  A.  MACPHERSON. SHOOTING- By  A.  J.  STUART- 

WORTLEY. COOKERY—  By  GEORGE  SAINTSBURY.    With 

Illustrations  by  A.  THORBURN,  A.  J.  STUART- WORTLEY,  and 
C.  WHYMPER.     Crown  8vo.  y.  [Ready. 

THE    GROUSE.      NATURAL    HJSTORY-~By  the  Rev. 

H.  A.   MACPHERSON. SHOOTING  —  By  A.  J.  STUART- 

WORTLEY. COOKERY— ~By  GEORGE  SAINTSBURY.    With 

Illustrations  by  A.  J.  STUART- WORTLEY  and  A.  THORBURN. 
Crown  8vo.  55.  [Ready. 

THE     PHEASANT.       NATURAL     HISTORY-Ky  the 

Rev.  H.  A.  MACPHERSON. SHOO  TING— By  A.  J.  STUART- 

WORTLEY. COOKERY—  By  ALEXANDER  INNES  SHAND. 

With    Illustrations    by   A.   THORBURN    and    A.  J.   STUART- 
WORTLEY.     Crown  8vo.  5^.  {.Ready. 

THE   HARE  AND   THE   RABBIT.     By  the  HON. 


GERALD  LASCELLES,  &c. 


[/«  preparation. 


WILDFOWL. 
M.P.  &c. 


By  the  Hon.  JOHN  SCOTT-MONTAGU, 

[In  preparation. 


LONGMANS,  GREEN,   &   CO. 

London  and  New  York. 


Frontispiece 


GOOD    BEAT    SPOILED    BY    FOX 


THE     PHEASANT 

NATURAL   HISTORY 
BY   THE    REV.   H.  A.   MACPHERSON 

SHOOTING 
BY   A.  J.  STUART-WORTLEY 

COOKERY 
BY   ALEXANDER  INNES    SHAND 


'•WITH    INTENT    TO    COMMIT  A   FELONY* 

WITH  ILLUSTRATIONS  BV    A.  THORBURN 

LONDON 
LONGMANS,     GREEN,     AND     CO. 

AND    NEW    YORK 
1895 


All    rights    reserved 


J?95*  LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 
gANTA  BARBARA 


PREFACE 


THE  design  of  the  Fur  and  FeatJier  Series  is 
to  present  monographs,  as  complete  as  they  can 
possibly  be  made,  on  the  various  English  birds 
and  beasts  which  are  generally  included  under 
the  head  of  Game. 

Books  on  Natural  History  cover  such  a  vast 
number  of  subjects  that  their  writers  necessarily 
find  it  impossible  to  deal  with  each  in  a  really 
comprehensive  manner ;  and  it  is  not  within 
the  scope  of  such  works  exhaustively  to  discuss 
the  animals  described,  in  the  light  of  objects  of 
sport.  Books  on  sport,  again,  seldom  treat  at 
length  of  the  Natural  History  of  the  furred  and 
feathered  creatures  which  are  shot  or  otherwise 
taken  ;  and,  so  far  as  the  Editor  is  aware,  in  no 
book  hitherto  published  on  Natural  History  or 
Sport  has  information  been  given  as  to  the  best 
methods  of  turning  the  contents  of  the  bag  to 
account. 


Each  volume  of  the  present  Series  will, 
therefore,  be  devoted  to  a  bird  or  beast,  and 
will  be  divided  into  three  parts.  The  Natural 
History  of  the  variety  will  first  be  given  ;  it 
will  then  be  considered  from  the  point  of  view 
of  sport  ;  and  the  writer  of  the  third  division 
will  assume  that  the  creature  has  been  carried 
to  the  larder,  and  will  proceed  to  discuss  it  gas- 
tronomically.  The  origin  of  the  animals  will 
be  traced,  their  birth  and  breeding  described, 
every  known  method  of  circumventing  and 
killing  them — not  omitting  the  methods  em- 
ployed by  the  poacher — will  be  explained  with 
special  regard  to  modern  developments,  and 
they  will  only  be  left  when  on  the  table  in 
the  most  appetising  forms  which  the  delicate 
science  of  cookery  has  discovered. 

It  is  intended  to  make  the  illustrations  a 
prominent  feature  in  the  Series.  The  pictures 
in  the  present  volume  are  after  drawings  by 
Mr.  A.  Thorburn,  all  of  which,  including  the 
diagrams,  have  been  arranged  under  the  super- 
vision of  Mr.  A.  J.  Stuart- Wortley. 

ALFRED   E.   T.   WATSON. 


CONTENTS 


NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

BY  THE  REV.  H.  A.  MACPHERSON 

CHAP.  PAGE 

I.  THE  PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY       ....  3 

II.  THE  PHEASANT  OF  THE  WOODLANDS     .        .     .  23 

HI.  FREAKS  AND  ODDITIES 44 

IV.  OLD-WORLD  FOWLING 65 

V.  POACHING  IN  THE  NINETEENTH-CENTURY  STYLE  87 


SHOOTING   THE  PHEASANT 

BY   A.   J.    STL'ART-WORTLEY 

I.     PRINCE  AND  PEASANT,  PEER  AND  PHEASANT    .  105 

II.     How  TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS         .        .        .        .121 

III.     How  TO  KILL  THEM      .        .        .        .        .     .  151 


viH  CONTENTS 

CHAP.  I'AGE 

IV.     WILD-BRED  AND  HAND-REARED   ....  176 

V.     POLICY  AND  PROTECTION        .....  202 

VI.     LANDSCAPE  AND  LARDER 214 

COOKERY  OF  THE  PHEASANT     .  227 

BY  ALEXANDER  INNES  SHAND 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

BY  A.  THORBURN 
Suggested  and  revised  by  A.  J.  STUART-WORTLEY 

(Reproduced  by  the  S-van  Eltctric  Engraving  Company) 


VIGNETTE  :    '  WITH    INTENT   TO    COMMIT    A 

FELONY' Title-page 

GOOD  BEAT  SPOILED  BY  Fox      .        .        .     .    Frontispiece 
UNDER  THE  BEECHES       ....         Tojacep.    42 

A  FROSTY  NIGHT ,,90 

OVER  THE  TALL  TREES ,,       124 

DROPPED  DEAD  FAR  BACK ,       164 

THE  LAST  OF  THE  FLUSH        .        .        .        .        ,,174 
COMING  TO  TERMS  WITH  THE  RUNAWAY    .     .         ,,       182 

A  RACE  FOR  LIFE ,,       198 

UNINVITED  GUESTS ,,      212 

THE  COUNT  .        .         .         ,,236 


VARIOUS  DIAGRAMS  IN  THE  TEXT  BY  A.  J.  STUART 
WORTLEY 


NATURAL  HISTORY  OF  THE  PHEASANT 

BY   THE 

REV.  H.  A.  MACPHERSON,  M.A. 


CHAPTER   I 

THE   PHEASANT    IN    HISTORY 

THE  acclimatisation  of  beautiful  or  useful  birds  has 
long  exercised  the  ingenuity  of  men  of  divers  races. 
The  old  Greeks  and  Romans  in  particular  bestowed 
great  pains  upon  procuring  rare  and  delicate  birds  to 
grace  their  menageries  and  poultry  yards.  Of  game 
birds  the  peacock  was  a  prime  favourite ;  but  the 
pheasant  was  also  held  in  high  esteem.  '  O  quanto 
noi  dobbiamo  d'  oblige  a  gli  Argonauti  ! '  exclaims 
Raimondi  of  Brescia  ;  whether  or  not  Jason  and  his 
heroes  introduced  this  bird  to  civilisation,  there  can 
be  no  doubt  that  it  was  first  carried  to  the  shores  of 
Southern  Greece  from  the  flat,  forest-covered  plains 
of  the  river  Phasis,  the  modern  Rion.  That  it  was 
so  is  a  matter  for  surprise  ;  because  this  species  might 
apparently  have  been  procured  then,  as  now,  from  the 
coverts  of  Mount  Olympus  or  the  Saronic  Gulf;  but 
the  evidence  of  a  crowd  of  classical  writers,  to  each  of 
which  I  have  taken  the  trouble  to  refer,  convinces 

B2 


NATURAL   HISTORY   OF   THE   PHEASANT 


me  that  Martial  was  correctly  informed  when  he  wrote 
the  well-known  couplet, 

Argiva  primum  sum  transportata  carina  ; 
Ante  mihi  notum  nil  nisi  Phasis  erat. ' 

The  popularity  which  the  pheasant  enjoyed  as  an 
article  of  luxury  passed  into  a  proverb  :  '  Not  if  you 
would  give  me  the  pheasants  which  Leogoras  rears.' 
Ptolemseus  Euergetes,  in  describing  the  animals  kept 
at  the  palace  in  Alexandria,  took  occasion  to  remark 
upon  the  tasty  character  of  the  flesh  of  the  pheasant. 
During  the  later  years  of  the  Empire,  Roman  epicures 
vied  with  one  another  in  the  variety  and  costliness  of 
their  banquets,  which  were  furnished  with  pheasants 
reared  by  contractors  or  supplied  by  their  own  country 
estates.  Nor  were  the  barbarians  of  the  North  slow 
to  appreciate  the  good  judgment  of  classical  taste  on 
the  score  of  a  roast  pheasant.  Alexander  Neckam 
has  worthily  celebrated  the  esteem  which  the  pheasant 
enjoyed  in  Britain  during  the  reign  of  his  foster- 
brother,  Richard  Cceur-de-Lion.  I  venture  to  think 
that  his  lines  deserve  to  be  better  known  than  they 

are  : 

In  prima  specie  carnem  quod  judice  luxu 

Judicat,  ipse  sapor  phasidos  ales  habet. 
Deliciosus  honos  mensse,  jocunda  palati 
Gloria,  vix  stomacho  gratior  hospes  adest.2 


1  Lib.  xiii.  Epig.  Ixxii. 

2  De  Lamlibus  Diviniz  Sapientia,  p.  383, 


THE   PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY  5 

Polydore  Vergil  (who  was  sent  to  England  by 
Pope  Alexander  VI.),  after  many  years'  residence  in 
this  country,  published  a  History  of  England  in  1533. 
We  learn  from  this  distinguished  Italian  that  '  the 
cheefe  food  of  the  Englishemen  consisteth  in  flesh. 
.  .  .  They  have  an  infinite  nomber  of  birdes,  as  well 
fostered  in  the  howse  as  breeding  in  their  woodds. 
...  Of  wilde  burdes  these  are  most  delicate, 
partiches,  pheasaunts,  quayles,  owsels,  thrusshes,  and 
larckes/ J 

About  a  century  later  Gervase  Markham  passed 
upon  the  pheasant  the  following  encomium  :  '  In  the 
first  rank  I  will  place  the  Pheasant,  as  being  indeed  a 
Byrd  of  singular  beauty,  excellent  in  the  pleasure  of 
her  flight,  and  as  rare  as  any  Byrd  whatsoever  that 
flies,  when  she  is  in  the  dish,  and  well  cookt  by  a 
skilfull  and  an  ingenious  workman.'  2 

Here  it  may  be  remarked  that  the  pheasants 
which  crow  to-day  in  our  home  coverts,  while  no 
doubt  remote  descendants  of  those  upon  which  the 
enthusiastic  fowler  was  pleased  to  pass  the  verdict  just 
recorded,  are  not,  as  a  rule,  thoroughbred.  It  would 
be  more  accurate  to  say  that  they  are  the  result  of  a 

1  History  of  England,  book  i.  p.  23. 

-  Hunger's  Prevention  ;  or,  the  Art  of  Fowling,  p.  199. 


6      NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

cross  between  the  pheasant  of  the  Caucasus  and  the 
Siberian  or  Ring-necked  Pheasant  of  China.  The 
latter  bird  is  extremely  handsome,  but  quite  unknown 
to  the  majority  of  Englishmen  ;  for  we  should  make  a 
great  mistake  if  we  regarded  the  ring- necked  pheasants 
seen  in  this  country  as  typical  Chinese  pheasants. 
This  point  will  be  more  easily  understood  if  we  try 
to  follow  a  short  statement  of  the  distribution  of  the 
pheasant  and  its  allies.  I  have  noticed  that  even 
ornithologists  sometimes  talk  about  the  pheasant  to 
which  we  usually  apply  that  term,  I  mean  Phasianus 
colchicus,  as  though  it  were  confined  to  the  forests  and 
marshes  which  fringe  the  shallow  and  slimy  waters  of 
the  slow-flowing  Phasis  or  Rion.  My  friend  Mr.  W. 
H.  Stuart,  of  Batoum,  who  has  taken  a  great  deal  of 
trouble  to  procure  the  most  recent  information  about 
the  pheasants  of  the  Black  Sea,  informs  me  that  this 
species  exists  in  many  parts  of  the  Caucasus.  It  fre- 
quents low-lying  localities,  notably  those  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  the  rivers  Rion  and  Hura  ;  but  it  is 
generally  to  be  found  in  suitable  spots.  Its  eastern 
range  extends  into  Transcaucasia,  while  it  reaches 
the  Volga  in  a  northerly  direction.  Mr.  Ogilvie  Grant 
defines  the  range  of  this  wild  pheasant  as  embracing 
Southern  Turkey,  Greece  and  the  North  of  Asia 
Minor,  as  well  as  the  Caucasus.  He  catalogues 


THE  PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY 


between  forty  and  fifty  specimens  as  existing  in  the 
National  Collection,  obtained  in  many  localities,  from 
Bohemia  and  the  Gulf  of  Salonica  to  the  Caucasus.1 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  our  National  Collection 
seems  to  possess  no  pheasants  from  the  island  of 
Corsica.  I  think  we  may  say  that  Professor  Giglioli 
almost  re-discovered  the  pheasant  in  Corsica.  He, 
at  any  rate,  was  the  first  to  inform  me  that  wjld  phea- 
sants existed  on  that  island  ;  in  proof  of  which  he 
produced  a  fine  male  and  female  which  he  had 
received  from  Corsica.  Now,  how  the  pheasant  first 
reached  Corsica  is  a  very  curious  problem.  It  is 
conceivable  that  the  original  stock  may  have  been 
introduced  by  some  Roman  officer  in  the  days  of  the 
Empire.  Professor  Giglioli  considers  that  the  phea- 
sant is  as  much  indigenous  to  Europe  as  to  the  swamps 
of  the  Caucasus  ;  apropos  of  which,  he  tells  us  that  it 
is  at  the  present  time  to  be  found  in  abundance  upon 
the  frontier  of  Dalmatia.  It  also  frequents  the  woods 
which  fringe  the  mouth  of  the  river  Drino  in  Albania, 
to  which  it  certainly  cannot  have  been  introduced  by 
any  human  agency.2 

There  is  documentary  evidence  that  pheasants 
have  been  found  in  Corsica  since  1531  ;  indeed,  one 

1  Catalogue  of  Birds,  vol.  xxii.  p.  322. 

2  Avifauna  Italica,  vol.  i.  p.  336. 


8      NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

would  naturally  imagine  that  they  had  existed  there 
since  classical  times.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  these 
Corsican  pheasants  are  becoming  rare,  in  consequence 
of  the  persecution  to  which  they  are  subjected.  The 
Italian  Consul-General  informed  Professor  Giglioli  in 
1 88 1  that  from  a  hundred  and  fifty  to  two  hundred 
birds  were  killed  in  the  canton  of  Ghisoni  annually.  It 
is  impossible  to  suppose  that  the  pheasant  reached  Cor- 
sica in  the  first  instance  by  a  voluntary  migration  across 
the  sea  from  Italy  ;  but  that  the  pheasants  of  that 
island  are  pure- bred  examples  of  Phasianus  colchicus 
may  be  affirmed  without  fear  of  contradiction.  Thus 
the  present  range  of  this  bird  in  a  truly  wild  state 
extends  from  Corsica  eastward  into  Transcaucasia. 
Mr.  Henry  Seebohm  contributed  to  the  '  Ibis '  an  ex- 
cellent essay  on  Phasianus  torquatus  and  its  allies,  in 
the  course  of  which  he  remarks  that  the  Siberian  or 
Ring-necked  Pheasant  (Phasianus  torquatus)  and  its 
allies  are  only  found  east  of  the  meridian  of  Calcutta. 
They  differ  from  the  Common  Pheasant  (Phasianus 
colchicus)  and  its  allies,  which  are  only  found  west  of 
the  meridian  of  Calcutta,  in  the  following  particulars  : 
The  predominant  colour  of  the  rump  and  upper  tail 
coverts  of  the  ring-necked  group  of  pheasants  is  green, 
instead  of  red,  as  in  the  Western  birds  ;  secondly,  the 
ring-necked  birds  have  the  wing  coverts  lavender-grey 


THE    PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY 


instead  of  white  or  red.  Of  the  seven  pheasants 
which  Seebohm  classes  together  as  races  of  the 
Siberian  Pheasant  (Phasianus  torquatus\  the  most 
widely  distributed  is  the  typical  ring-necked  bird, 
the  range  of  which  extends  from  the  Lower  Amoor, 
through  Manchuria,  to  Eastern  China,  where  it  is 
found  as  far  south  as  Chang-shi  and  Canton.  '  It  is 
easily  diagnosed  by  two  characters — neck  with  a  white 
ring  round  it,  and  flank  feathers  buff,  with  the  usual 
black  tips.  As  might  be  expected  from  its  wide 
range,  it  varies  somewhat  in  colour  in  different  loca- 
lities. Examples  from  the  Corea  have  the  ground 
colour  of  the  mantle  and  flanks  a  paler  buff  than 
usual,  but  they  do  not  approach  P.  formosanus  in 
having  any  wider  dark  margins  than  is  usual  on  the 
breast  feathers.  The  feathers  of  the  upper  mantle 
also  differ  very  considerably  ;  the  centres  are  white  in 
an  example  from  the  Amoor,  and  black  with  a  narrow 
white  shaft-streak  in  examples  from  Northern  and 
Central  China  ;  but  other  examples  are  intermediate 
in  this  respect.1 

The  handsomest  specimen  of  the  Siberian  Pheasant 
that  I  have  personally  examined  was  sent  to  me  from 
the  neighbourhood  of  Neu  chwang.  It  has  a  very 
broad  white  collar  of  snowy  purity,  and  the  colours $/ 

1  Ibis,  fifth  series,  vol.  vi.  p.  314. 


io     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


the  flank  and  rump  are  singularly  brilliant.  It  is  now 
in  the  Carlisle  Museum.  The  best  known  of  the  six 
remaining  races  of  the  Siberian  Pheasant,  as  desig- 
nated by  Mr.  Seebohm,  is  the  Versicolor  Pheasant,  a 
native  of  all  the  Japanese  islands  except  Yezo.  It  is 
easily  distinguished  from  its  congeners  by  its  green 
flanks.  Returning  to  the  Common  Pheasant,  we 
find  that  Seebohm  recognises  six  races  of  red-rumped 
pheasants ;  of  these,  the  Persian  Pheasant  of  the 
Attreck  river  seems  to  come  nearest  to  the  type.  The 
Prince  of  Wales's  Pheasant  (Phasianus  prinripalis) 
chances  to  have  been  discovered  in  Afghanistan  by 
Russian  and  English  naturalists  almost  simultaneously. 
This  pheasant  nearly  coincides  with  Shaw's  Pheasant, 
from  which  it  is  separated  by  the  plateau  of  the 
Pamirs.  The  other  two  races  recognised  by  Seebohm 
are  Phasianus  chrysomelas  and  the  Mongolian  Phea- 
sant. The  first-named  is  found  in  the  lower  valley  of 
the  Amu- Darya.  It  is  remarkable  for  the  rich  metallic 
green  margins  of  the  feathers  of  the  mantle.  When 
thoroughbred  it  has  no  white  ring,  but  the  majority 
of  examples  show  a  more  or  less  perfect  approach  to 
the  interrupted  ring  of  the  Mongolian  Pheasant.  This 
latter  has  a  great  deal  of  green  on  its  rump  and  upper 
taH  coverts.1  Some  additional  information  upon  this 

1  Ibis,  fifth  series,  vol.  v.  p.  173. 


THE  PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY 


topic  will  be  found  in  the  twenty-second  volume  of 
the  'Catalogue  of  Birds,'  written  by  Mr.  Ogilvie  Grant, 
a  leading  authority  upon  game  birds. 

The  Common  Pheasant  was  a  favourite  in  Italian 
poultry  yards  in  the  days  of  the  Augustan  Empire  ; 
but  its  treatment  in  confinement  does  not  appear  to 
have  been  described  by  any  writer  prior  to  Palladius, 
who  is  conjectured  to  have  flourished  about  the  time 
of  Valentinian  and  Theodosius.  Palladius  followed 
Varro  in  many  of  his  rules  about  agriculture  ;  but 
his  instructions  for  pheasant  breeding  appear  to  be 
original.  He  tells  us  that  those  who  wish  to  rear 
pheasants  should  select  birds  of  the  previous  year 
for  that  purpose,  as  old  birds  prove  barren.  Hen 
pheasants  lay  in  March  and  April.  A  single  cock 
will  suffice  to  run  with  a  couple  of  hens.  The  latter 
lay  about  twenty  eggs  apiece  and  only  breed  once  in 
the  season.  It  is  best  to  place  the  eggs  under 
domestic  fowls,  and  a  hen  will  cover  fifteen  pheasant 
eggs.  Young  pheasants  should  be  fed  for  the  first 
fortnight  of  their  lives  upon  boiled  barley  meal  which 
has  been  allowed  to  cool  gradually.  The  meal  re- 
quires to  be  sprinkled  with  wine  for  the  first  fortnight 
of  their  existence,  after  which  we  are  advised  to  offer 
them  pounded  wheat,  locusts  and  ants'  eggs.  The 
proper  way  of  fattening  a  pheasant  is  to  shut  it  up  for 


12     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


a  month,  and  feed  it  upon  a  certain  fixed  quantity  of 
flour  or  barley  meal,  the  food  being  kneaded  into 
small  balls  and  moistened  with  olive  oil,  in  order  that 
it  may  be  swallowed  easily.  Care  must  be  taken  to 
prevent  a  bird  so  treated  from  obtaining  any  unsuit- 
able food.1  The  Italians  appear  to  have  continued 
pheasant  rearing  ever  since  those  early  days.  That 
they  adhered  to  the  system  in  the  sixteenth  century  is 
evidenced  by  an  incidental  comment  of  Aldrovandus, 
who  takes  exception  to  an  erroneous  remark  of  Palla- 
dius  as  to  the  period  of  time  required  for  the  incuba- 
tion of  pheasant  eggs.  Aldrovandus  remarks  that  he 
cannot  decide  the  point  by  his  own  experience,  for  he 
has  never  reared  pheasants,  but  he  knows  a  man  at 
Florence  who  writes  that  the  eggs  of  the  pheasant  re- 
quire to  be  incubated  for  the  same  length  of  time  as 
those  of  fowls,  and  that  the  chicks  hatch  out  on  the 
twenty-first  day.  Nowadays,  pheasants  are  seldom 
reared  in  Italy,  except  by  wealthy  landowners.  Two 
hundred  and  fifty  pheasants  were  recently  shot  in  the 
course  of  a  day's  sport  near  Genoa.2 

I  have  not  succeeded  in  ascertaining  at  what 
precise  period  the  pheasant  became  naturalised  in 
France,  but  it  is  probable  that  it  was  introduced  into 

1  De  Re  Rustica,  lib.  i.  cap.  xxix. 

2  Field,  January  19,  1895. 


THE  PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY  13 

both  that  country  and  England  through  the  agency 
of  Roman  officers  employed  upon  foreign  service. 
French  ornithologists  show  much  remissness  in  ac- 
quainting us  with  the  distribution  of  their  native  birds  ; 
but  M.  Diguet  states  that  the  departments  in  which 
the  pheasant  is  most  numerous  are  those  of  the  Seine- 
and-Marne,  Seine-and-Oise,  and  of  the  Oise.  He 
adds  that  the  pheasant  exists  in  a  perfectly  wild  state 
in  Touraine  and  Sologne.1 

Such  efforts  as  have  been  made  to  establish 
the  pheasant  in  Spain  have  proved,  I  understand, 
entirely  futile.  The  case  is  very  different  with  regard 
to  Great  Britain.  Even  here  the  earliest  documen- 
tary evidence  of  the  naturalisation  of  this  bird  is  late, 
dating  only  from  the  eleventh  century.  The  infor- 
mation in  question  was  brought  to  light  by  the  Bishop 
of  Oxford,  who  discovered  that  the  regulations  of 
King  Harold  in  the  year  1059  allowed  the  canons  of 
Waltham  Abbey  a  '  commons'  pheasant  as  the  agree- 
able alternative  to  a  brace  of  partridges.  Dugdale's 
'  Monasticon '  is  often  quoted  in  support  of  a  state- 
ment that  Henry  I.  granted  the  Abbot  of  Amesbury 
a  licence  to  kill  pheasants  in  the  year  noo.  The 
'  Saturday  Review '  states  that  Thomas  Becket  dined 
off  a  pheasant  on  the  day  he  died,  December  29 

1  Le  Livre  du  Chasseur,  p.  64. 


I4    NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


1179.  In  France,  as  in  England,  the  pheasant  was 
early  protected  by  the  Crown.  Thus  we  find  that 
Charles  IV.  of  France  allowed  only  his  nobles  to  take 
pheasants  in  nets.  In  this  connection  may  be  no- 
ticed the  curious  fact  brought  to  light  by  Professor 
Newton,  that  Henry  VIII.  seems  from  his  privy 
purse  expenses  to  have  had  in  his  household  in  1532 
a  French  priest  as  a  regular  '  fesaunt-breeder.'  l  Bro- 
derip  supplies  an  interesting  note  :  '  We  are  told  that 
the  price  of  a  pheasant  was  ^d.  in  the  time  of  our 
first  Edward'  (1299).  In  'The  Forme  of  Cury,' 
which  is  stated  to  have  been  compiled  by  the  chief 
master-cook  of  King  Richard  II.,  there  is  a  recipe 
'for  to  boile  Fesant,  Ptruch,  Capons  and  Curlew,' 
which  carries  us  back  to  1381.  We  read  of  the 

Fawkon  and  the  Fesaunt  both 

in  the  old  ballad  of  the  '  Battle  of  Otterbourne.'  At  the 
'  Intronazation  of  George  Nevell,'  Archbishop  of  York, 
in  the  reign  of  our  fourth  Edward,  we  find  among 
the  goodly  provision,  'Fessauntes,  200.'  In  the 
'Northumberland  Household  Book,' begun  in  1512, 
'  Fesauntes  '  are  valued  at  twelvepence  each.  In  the 
charges  of  Sir  John  Neville,  of  Chete,  at  Lammas  As- 
sizes, in  the  twentieth  year  of  King  Henry  VIII.,  twelve 
pheasants  are  charged  at  twenty  shillings ;  and  they  seem 

1  Di<~tiona> y  of  Birds,  p.  714. 


THE   PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY 


to  have  maintained  their  value,  as  among  the  expenses 
of  the  same  Sir  John  Nevile,  for,  as  he  writes  it, 
'  the  marriage  of  my  son-in-law  Roger  Rockley  and 
my  daughter  Elizabeth  Nevile,  the  i4th  of  January, 
in  the  seventeenth  year  of  the  reigne  of  our  soveraigne 
lord  King  Henry  VIII.,'  is  the  following  :  '  Item,  in 
Pheasants  18,  24  shillings.'  We  trace  the  birds  in 
'  A.  C.  Mery  Talys,'  printed  by  John  Rastell,  where 
we  read  of  '  Mayster  Skelton,  a  poyet  lauryat,  that 
broughte  the  bysshop  of  Norwiche  ii  fesauntys.' l 

Pheasants  seem  to  have  been  established  in  East 
Anglia  at  an  early  period.  The  '  Household  Book  '  of 
the  L'Estranges  of  Hunstanton  for  1532  includes  an 
entry  :  '  Itm,  in  reward  the  vij  day  of  Jun  to 
Fulm'ston  servante  for  bryngynge  iij  fesands.'  A 
similar  note  appears  the  year  following  :  '  Itrn,  paid 
the  xij  day  of  June  to  Towars  for  money  that  he  laid 
out  at  div's  tymes  when  he  went  to  take  fesaunts.' 
Some  of  the  entries  cited  by  Stevenson  recall  the  ex- 
cellent sport  which  pheasants  afforded  those  country 
gentlemen  who  kept  hawks.  These  for  example  : 
'  Itm,  a  fesant  kylled  wt  ye  goshawke  ; ' '  ij  fesands  and 
ij  ptriches  kylled  wtthe  hawk.'  2 

In  this  connection  it  may  be    remembered  that 

1  English  Cyclopedia,  '  Nat.  Hist.,'  vol.  iv.  p.  283. 
•  Birds  of  Norfolk,  vol.  i.  p.  362. 


1 6     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


one  of  the  many  delightful  plates  which  illustrate 
Harting's  '  Bibliotheca  Accipitraria '  is  a  reprint  of  a 
print  by  F.  Barlow,  engraved  by  Hollar  in  1671,  to  re- 
present a  party  of  English  falconers  of  the  seventeenth 
century  pheasant  hawking  with  a  goshawk.  One 
would  naturally  suppose  that  the  intimate  relations 
which  existed  long  ago  between  France  and  Scotland 
must  have  resulted  in  the  early  naturalisation  of  the 
pheasant  in  the  latter  country,  but  corroborative 
evidence  is  still  wanting.  The  late  Mr.  Robert  Gray 
ascertained  that  '  the  first  mention  of  the  pheasant  in 
old  Scots  Acts  is  in  one  dated  June  8,  1594,  in  which 
year  a  keen  sportsman  occupied  the  Scottish  throne. 
He  might  almost  have  been  called  '  James  the  Pro- 
tector '  of  all  kinds  of  game.  In  the  aforesaid  year 
he  '  ordained  that  quhatsumever  person  or  persones 
at  ony  time  hereafter  sail  happen  to  slay  deir, 
harts,  phesants,  foulls,  partricks  or  uther  wyld  foule 
quhatsumever,  ather  with  gun,  croce  bow,  dogges, 
halkes,  or  girnes,  or  be  uther  ingine  quhatsum- 
ever, or  that  beis  found  schutting  with  ony  gun 
therein,'  &c.,  shall  pay  the  usual '  hundreth  punds,' 
&C.1  The  date  of  this  Act  is,  after  all,  only  a  vague 
guide  as  to  the  naturalisation  of  the  pheasant  in 
Scotland  ;  but  even  so,  it  fixes  it  at  a  period  long 
1  Birds  of  the  West  of  Scotland,  p.  226. 


THE    PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY  17 


prior  to  the  establishment  of  pheasants  in  some  of 
the  border  counties  of  England.  In  the  year  1622 
we  learn  that  a  '  phesson  '  was  sent  to  Lord  William 
Howard,  of  Naworth,  by  a  special  messenger  all  the 
way  from  Yorkshire  ;  while  an  attempt  to  introduce 
this  game-bird  into  Westmoreland  towards  the  end 
of  that  century  proved  abortive,  not  on  account  of 
the  numerous  hen  harriers  that  then  quartered  the 
northern  moorlands,  but  because  every  man's  hand 
was  against  them  ;  'the  countrey  people  distroy'd 
them  before  they  increased  to  any  considerable 
replenishing  number.'  As  lately  as  1784,  Clarke,  a 
local  topographer,  commented  upon  the  absence  of 
pheasants  from  Cumberland  ;  but  the  fault  was  re- 
paired a  few  years  later  by  the  exertions  of  Sir  James 
Graham,  Lord  Muncaster,  and  other  county  mag- 
nates. And  this  recalls  the  fact  that  it  was  during 
the  later  years  of  the  eighteenth  century  that  the  old 
race  of  pheasants,  which  had  graced  the  banquets  of 
the  Tudor  sovereigns,  began  to  mingle  with  the  ring- 
necked  pheasant  of  Northern  China,  introduced 
about  that  time. 

I  have  a  fine  print  by  C.  Turner  of  a  portrait  of 
a  celebrated  pointer,  Sancho,  which  is  represented 
with  a  pheasant,  and  the  bird  is  a  ring-necked 
bird,  showing  the  white  collar  to  be  well  developed. 

c 


1 8    NATURAL   HISTORY  OF  THE   PHEASANT 


This  engraving  was  published  in  1808,  by  which  time 
the  Siberian,  or  ring-necked  bird,  was  well  known  in 
England.  Its  introduction  into  Scotland  was  pro- 
bably accomplished  many  years  later.  Macgillivray 
exhibited  a  curious  incredulity  as  to  the  origin  of  the 
ring-necked  bird,  which  he  preferred  to  consider  an 
accidental  variety  of  the  Common  Pheasant.  But  we 
must  not  judge  him  too  harshly,  for  it  was  only  in  the 
fifties  at  the  earliest  that  ring-necked  pheasants  be- 
came common  in  Scotland.  Zoology  has  few  more 
curious  surprises  than  the  blending  which  Nature  has 
effected  between  the  Common  and  Siberian  Pheasants. 
No  one  who  compared  the  adult  males  of  these  two 
species  would  imagine  that  their  characters  could 
ever  be  absorbed  into  a  fertile  race  of  hybrids  ;  for 
the  colours  of  the  pure-bred  birds  are  extremely 
unlike.  I  refer  to  typical  specimens,  of  which  the 
majority  of  sportsmen  can  hardly,  perhaps,  judge  ; 
for,  as  Mr.  Ogilvie-Grant  remarks  :  '  It  is  very 
rarely  now  that  anything  approaching  a  pure-bred 
male  of  P.  colchicus  can  be  found  in  England  :  even 
in  specimens  which  appear  to  be  pure-bred  at  the  first 
glance  (that  is,  in  those  which  have  no  trace  of  a  white 
ring),  the  subterminal  green  bar  of  P,  torquatus  is 
usually  more  or  less  developed  on  the  feathers  of  the 
lower  back,  and  the  basal  part  of  the  central  tail 


THE  PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY  19 


feathers  is  rather  widely  barred  with  black.'  '  As  re- 
gards Ireland,  Thompson  has  shown  that  the  pheasant 
must  have  been  introduced  into  that  country  prior 
to  the  year  1589,  when  Robert  Payne  stated  in  his 
tract,  'A  Brife  Description  of  Ireland,'  that  'there 
be  great  store  of  wild  swannes,  cranes,  phesantes, 
partriges,  heathcocks,  plouers  greene  and  gray, 
curlewes,  woodcockes,  rayles,  quailes,  and  all  other 
fowles  much  more  plentifull  than  in  England.'  Fynes 
Morison,  who  was  in  Ireland  from  1599  till  1603, 
observes  that  there  are  '  such  plenty  of  pheasants,  as 
I  have  known  sixty  served  up  at  one  feast.'  Smith 
seems  to  have  imagined  that  pheasants  were  indige- 
nous to  the  island,  as  in  his  '  History  of  Cork  '  it  is 
remarked  :  'They  are  now  [1749]  indeed  very  rare, 
most  of  our  woods  being  cut  down.'  At  the  present 
time  the  pheasant  is  common  in  various  wooded  parts 
of  the  island,  where  it  has  been  preserved  and  pro- 
tected. The  same  may  be  said  of  its  existence  in 
Holland,  Belgium,  and  Northern  Germany. 

Enormous  numbers  of  pheasants  are  killed  in 
Austria  every  year.  Thus,  no  fewer  than  142,912 
birds  of  this  species  were  shot  by  Austrian  sportsmen 
in  the  year  1891.  Northern  Europe  is  obviously  less 
suited  to  the  peculiar  requirements  of  the  pheasant ; 

1   Catalogue  of  Birds,  vol.  xxii.  p.  321. 


20    NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

but  its  naturalisation  in  Sweden,  first  attempted  on 
a  large  scale  by  the  late  King  Oscar,  was  finally 
accomplished  by  Baron  Dickson. 

Pheasant  shooting  has  now  become  possible  in 
many  countries.  The  island  of  St.  Helena  has  long 
been  the  home  of  the  Siberian  Pheasant,  which  was 
introduced  as  long  ago  as  1775,  and  possibly  much 
earlier.  At  the  present  time,  according  to  Mr. 
Melliss,  'they  exist  abundantly,  inhabiting  the  in- 
terior of  the  island.  .  .  .  They  are  protected  by  game 
laws,  which  permit  them  to  be  killed  on  payment  of 
the  licence  for  six  weeks  in  the  summer  or  autumn  of 
each  year  ;  and  hundreds  of  them  are  generally  killed 
during  one  shooting  season  They  find  plenty  of 
covert,  and  generally  make  their  nests  in  the  long 
tufty  fields  of  cow-grass.' '  Notwithstanding  the  long 
isolation  of  their  progenitors,  these  insulated  birds 
only  vary  in  the  smallest  degree  from  the  typical 
Siberian  Pheasant.  The  neighbouring  island  of  As- 
cension can  boast  of  a  similar  distinction.  Nor  are 
pheasants  absent  from  the  Antipodes.  As  long  ago 
as  1876,  pheasants  were  fairly  established  in  Southern 
New  Zealand.  Indeed,  '  along  the  Kuriwao  Hills, 
and  up  the  Waiwera  Gorge,  and  all  along  that  range 
by  Kaihiku  Bush,  and  Warepa,  down  to  South  Moly- 

1  St.  Helena,  p.  94. 


THE   PHEASANT  IN  HISTORY 


neux,  and  for  miles  back,  pheasants  were  to  be  found 
in  great  abundance.1  Mr.  W.  B.  Tegetmeier,  the 
well-known  authority  on  pheasants,  furnishes  an 
interesting  note  on  the  introduction  of  the  Siberian 
Pheasant  into  Samoa  :  '  Owing  to  the  kindness  of  Lieu- 
tenant de  Crespigny,  of  H.M.S.  "Curacoa,"  we  have  re- 
ceived a  specimen  (male)  of  the  pheasants  which  have 
been  turned  out  and  are  now  breeding  in  the  Samoan 
Islands.  This  pheasant  is  undoubtedly  of  the  Chinese 
ring-necked  species,  the  neck  being  nearly  surrounded 
by  the  distinguishing  white  collar  ;  but  there  is  con- 
siderable difference  in  the  colour  of  the  neck  at  the 
base,  and  the  scapulars,  which  are  much  lighter  than 
in  our  ordinary  race.' 2  The  specimen  in  question 
was  exhibited  at  a  meeting  of  the  British  Ornitho- 
logists' Club.  In  America,  much  time  and  money 
has  already  been  spent  in  the  endeavour  to  naturalise 
ring-necked  and  common  birds,  especially  in  Ohio, 
Oregon,  and  British  Columbia.  Mr.  Eugene  Short, 
the  Commissioner  of  Fish  and  Game  for  Ohio,  states 
that  '  in  five  years  Ohio  will  have  English  pheasants 
in  the  greatest  abundance.  Writing  from  Macomb, 
in  the  State  of  Illinois,  Mr.  W.  O.  Blaisdell  remarks 
that  Judge  Denney,  while  American  Minister  in 
China,  during  the  Presidency  of  General  Grant, 
1  Zoologist,  1877,  p.  25.  -  Field,  January  19,  1895. 


22    NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


shipped  eleven  Mongolian  pheasants  to  the  State  of 
Oregon,  where  they  were  turned  loose.  The  Secretary 
of  State  in  Oregon  writes  me  word  that  from  these 
eleven  Mongolian  pheasants  introduced  by  Judge 
Denney,  of  Portland,  Oregon,  only  nine  years  since, 
there  are  now  in  existence  at  least  a  million  descend- 
ants. They  are  spreading  into  the  State  of  Washing- 
ton to  the  north  of  Oregon,  and  to  California  on  the 
south  ;  whilst,  simultaneously,  some  live  specimens 
have  been  imported  into  New  England,  and  others 
into  the  States  on  the  Gulf  of  Mexico.'  Mr.  Blaisdell 
claims  that  four  years  ago  he  imported  into  the  State 
of  Illinois  the  first  pair  of  Mongolian  or  Ring-necked 
Pheasants  that  ever  crossed  the  Rocky  Mountains. 
'  I  turned  them  loose  here,'  he  says,  '  and  they  have 
been  seen  many  times  since.  They  are  the  most 
beautiful  of  game  birds,  and  will  live  in  any  clime. 
In  Vermont  last  winter  they  stood  the  very  coldest 
weather  ever  experienced  in  that  State,  when  it  was 
'way  below  zero.'  l 

1  Baity s  Magazine,  1895,  p.  8. 


CHAPTER  II 

THE   PHEASANT    OF   THE   WOODLANDS 

THE  charm  of  the  woods  is  strong  upon  us  in  the 
spring  of  the  year,  when  we  wander  through  the 
plantations  of  young  firs,  ready  to  note  the  cry  of 
every  bird  that  stirs  overhead,  anxiously  straining 
our  eyes  in  the  endeavour  to  detect  some  dainty  nest 
among  the  dead  leaves  which  we  ruthlessly  crush 
under  foot.  The  pheasant  is  an  early  breeding  bird 
at  home  and  abroad  alike.  The  wild  pheasants  of 
the  Caucasus  begin  to  pair  in  March ;  at  that 
period  the  cocks  engage  in  combats  which  frequently 
end  fatally  for  the  weaker  bird,  and  then  the  victor 
remains  at  the  head  of  five  or  more  hens,  which  after 
a  time  are  found  to  avoid  the  cock  in  order  to 
prepare  their  nests.  I  mention  this  for  the  express 
purpose  of  demonstrating  that  the  polygamy  of  our 
English  birds  is  not  the  result  of  artificial  conditions. 
All  the  evidence  which  is  supplied  to  me  by  Mr. 
Stuart  points  to  the  same  conclusion.  One  Russian 


24    NATURAL   HISTORY  OF    THE   PHEASANT 


gentleman  writes  that  the  pheasant  '  is  addicted  to 
polygamy.  This  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  even  in 
spring  it  happens  that  one  may  drive  out  one  cock 
and  several  hens  from  the  same  spot.  The  natives 
also,  who  naturally  have  many  opportunities  of  ob- 
serving the  life  of  the  pheasant,  maintain  that  this  is 
the  case.  Persons  wishing  to  preserve  pheasants  ex- 
pressly shoot  the  cocks  in  the  spring,  saying  that  they 
destroy  the  nests  and  eat  the  eggs.'  Another  of  my 
Russian  correspondents  writes  that  the  male  pheasant 
'  manages  his  family  affairs  in  exactly  the  same  manner 
as  does  the  ordinary  barndoor  rooster.  He  has 
several  wives  or  concubines,  and  is  in  constant  hot 
water  with  other  male  birds  that  may  be  knocking 
about  in  search  of  a  partner,  as  he  regards  with  a 
very  jealous  eye  any  attempts  at  interference  in 
his  domestic  arrangements.  Upon  the  eggs  being 
hatched  the  male  bird  attaches  himself  to  the  first 
hen  with  a  family  that  he  meets,  and  escorts  her 
about.  Sometimes  several  hens  with  their  families 
put  themselves  under  the  protection  of  one  cock,  and 
sometimes  several  cocks  act  as  cavaliers  to  one  hen 
and  family.'  The  hen  pheasant  generally  begins  to 
lay  her  eggs  in  the  month  of  April.  A  wide  latitude 
must  be  given  to  this  event.  In  the  North  of  England 
the  keepers  gather  many  pheasant  eggs  in  the  month 


THE  PHEASANT  OF  THE  WOODLANDS   25 


of  May,  just  about  the  time  that  the  first  broods  of 
woodcock  are  beginning  to  fly.  In  the  Caucasus  hen 
pheasants  begin  to  lay  from  the  middle  to  the  end  of 
April,  according  to  the  character  of  the  spring,  for 
warm  genial  weather  hastens  on  nidification.  March 
is  the  earliest  month  in  which  any  of  my  correspon- 
dents have  found  the  eggs  of  wild  pheasants,  and 
their  experience  would  probably  apply  equally  well 
to  the  British  Islands.  For  example,  the  Rev.  G.  C. 
Green,  of  Modbury,  Devon,  authenticated  the  hatch- 
ing of  eleven  pheasant  chicks  as  early  as  April  18,  in 
which  case  all  the  eggs  must  have  been  laid  by  the 
middle  of  March.  Another  early  brood  of  pheasants 
was  reported  from  Milford  Haven  in  1882.  In  this 
case  the  birds  had  all  hatched  out  on  April  27.'  A 
year  earlier  eight  young  pheasants  were  hatched  out 
upon  a  Norfolk  farm  on  May  2.2  When  I  was  study- 
ing birds  on  the  Rhine,  the  keepers  showed  me  num- 
bers of  pheasants'  nests  full  of  eggs  in  July,  and  my 
personal  experience  of  late  nests  in  the  North  of 
Scotland  is  very  similar.  There  are  rare  instances 
in  which  pheasants  incubate  their  eggs  during  the 
autumn  months.  In  1893,  Mr.  W.  W.  Blest  was  out 
shooting  partridges  on  September  3,  near  Staplehurst, 
when  he  disturbed  a  pheasant  hen,  which  was  sitting 

1  Field,  May  6,  1882.  -  Ibid,  May  14,  1881. 


26     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


upon  twelve  eggs.1  What  is  stranger  still,  eggs  some- 
times fully  mature  in  the  oviducts  of  hen  pheasants 
during  the  winter  months.  A  perfectly  formed  egg 
was  taken  from  the  body  of  a  pheasant  shot  in  North- 
umberland on  December  13,  and  similar  exceptions 
to  rule  might  be  cited.2 

The  choice  of  a  nesting  site  varies  with  the 
individual  bird.  Mr.  Djanaschvili  writes  that  the 
hen  pheasant  of  the  Caucasus  '  builds  her  nest  and 
hatches  her  young  generally  in  thick  reeds  or  other 
dense  undergrowth.  The  nest  of  this  bird  is  in- 
variably made  on  the  ground  ;  the  hen  chooses  the 
driest  place  she  can  find.  Having  fixed  on  a  suitable 
spot  for  the  nest,  and  having  lined  it  with  soft  straw 
or  reeds,  she  lays  in  it  from  ten  to  fifteen  whitish 
eggs,  speckled  with  greenish  yellow  spots.  The 
laying  of  the  eggs  begins  at  the  end  of  April,  and 
is  continued  until  the  middle  of  the  latter  month. 
After  this,  the  brooding  pheasant  hardly  leaves  her 
eggs  until  they  are  hatched.  It  has  been  observed 
that  not  a  single  egg  is  spoilt  unless  some  untoward 
event  happens,  such,  for  instance,  as  an  excessive 
rain  or  the  frequent  frightening  of  the  hen  from  the 
nest.' 

The  foregoing  passage  is  suggestive  of  criticism. 

1  Field,  Sept.  12,  1893.  -  Ibid.  Dec.  25,  iSSo. 


THE  PHEASANT  OF  THE  WOODLANDS   27 


All  the  pheasants'  nests  that  I  have  seen  were  placed 
upon  the  ground,  but  I  never  happened  to  discover  a 
pheasant's  nest  in  a  reed  bed,  though  both  in  Norfolk 
and  in  Germany  pheasants  often  nest  like  ducks  in  the 
centre  of  tussocks  of  sedge  ;  that,  at  least,  has  been 
my  own  experience.     On  some  few  occasions  I  have 
waded  out  to  pheasants'  nests  which  were  completely 
surrounded  by  water,  so  that  one  felt  puzzled  to  know 
how  the  poor  chicks  were  ever  to  scramble  on  to  dry 
land.     But  most  of  the  nests  that  have  so  far  occurred 
to  me  were  slight  scratchings  in  the  ground,  lined 
with  a  few  stems  of  grass,  and  screened  from  obser- 
vation by  long  sprays  of  brambles  or  tall  wavy  grass. 
The    curious    thing    is    that    some    eccentric    hen 
pheasants  prefer  to  secure  their  personal  safety  by 
nesting  in  trees,  as  well  as  on  stacks  and  walls  over- 
grown with  ivy.     My  impression  is  that  the  pheasant 
resorts  to  such  an  unusual   nesting   place  only   for 
safety.     Probably  she  has  been  scared  at  some  time 
or  another  by  a  fox  or  a  half-wild  cat,  and  has  de- 
veloped a  nervous  distrust  of  a  less  exalted  situation 
for   sitting  in.      Nesting  pheasants  are   exposed   to 
many  dangers ;  nor  would  they  be  likely  to  remain  un- 
scathed, were  it  not  for  the  twofold  protection  which 
Nature  has  provided  for  them.     I  may  be  tedious  in 
alluding  to  such  a  commonplace,  but  to  me  the  sight 


28     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

of  a  brooding  bird  is  sure  to  awaken  some  pleasant 
train  of  thought.  I  like  to  catch  the  precise  attitude 
of  a  sitting  pheasant  without  attracting  her  notice, 
and  by  a  mental  effort  to  photograph  her  easy  repose 
upon  the  mind's  vision,  so  that  every  delicate  blade 
of  grass,  all  the  exquisite  tracery  of  the  dead  and 
crumbling  leaves,  may  be  remembered  as  a  sight  of 
beauty;  and  especially  the  shapely  form  of  the  russet- 
plumed  bird,  with  her  finely  turned  bill  and  bright, 
distrustful  irides,  her  whole  being  absorbed  in  the 
supreme  effort  to  fulfil  the  duties  of  maternal  love. 
To  me  there  seems  to  be  a  world  of  natural  poetry 
latent  in  the  possibilities  that  a  pheasant's  nest  sug- 
gests ;  indeed,  it  sets  one's  mind  working  for  the  rest 
of  the  day. 

But  mention  must  be  made  of  the  precise  circum- 
stances under  which  pheasants  have  nested  aloft. 
And  first,  it  must  not  be  supposed  that  the  phrase 
just  employed  implies  that  pheasants  build  aerial  nests 
of  their  own  ;  for  nothing  could  be  more  absurd. 
When  a  pheasant  decides  to  nest  in  a  tree,  she  takes 
possession  of  an  old  nest  of  the  wood-pigeon,  sparrow- 
hawk,  or  some  other  bird.  One  of  the  most  recent 
instances  of  a  pheasant  choosing  an  arboreal  site  for 
her  eggs  occurred  in  1892,  and  was  reported  by 
Thomas  Scott  in  the  following  words  :  '  On  May  20 


THE   PHEASANT  OF  THE    WOODLANDS      29 

a  pheasant's  nest  with  eleven  eggs  was  found  here 
fully  twenty  feet  from  the  ground  in  a  spruce  fir. 
Thinking  there  would  be  a  poor  chance  for  the  young 
when  hatched,  I  went  for  the  purpose  of  bringing 
away  the  eggs  to  put  under  a  hen.  The  old  bird  was 
sitting  on  and  was  determined  to  protect  her  eggs, 
pecking  at  my  hand  and  flapping  her  wings  at  me.  I 
thought  it  seemed  a  pity  to  rob  such  a  good  mother, 
so  I  left  her  with  five  eggs  to  try  her  luck  ;  the  other 
eggs  I  put  under  a  hen,  and  they  hatched  out  eleven 
days  after.  Knowing  that  the  others  up  the  tree 
would  be  hatched  also,  I  went  to  relieve  the  captives, 
and  on  nearing  the  spot  there  was  a  young  bird 
calling  at  the  bottom  of  the  tree,  and  the  old  one 
calling  in  reply  from  above.  I  brought  them  to  the 
ground,  the  old  bird  keeping  quite  near  all  the  time, 
pecking  and  darting  at  me  now  and  then.  The 
young  I  put  together,  and  on  leaving  the  mother 
chased  me  out  of  the  wood,  and  then  flew  back  to 
her  young.  How  the  young  bird  was  saved  from 
being  killed  by  the  fall  was,  no  doubt,  owing  to  the 
thick  branches.'  ' 

In  the  summer  of  1894  Lord  Lilford  authenticated 
a  similar  instance  of  a  pheasant  appropriating  a 
wood-pigeon's  nest,  in  which  she  laid  nine  eggs 

1  Field,  June  6,  1892. 


30     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


Three  young  birds  were  subsequently  found  dead  at 
the  foot  of  the  tree  which  contained  the  nest,  but  it 
was  believed  that  the  remainder  of  the  brood  had 
reached  the  ground  in  safety.1 

Mr.  Djanaschvili  has  incidentally  raised  the 
question  of  the  colour  of  the  eggs.  He  describes 
them  as  whitish  speckled  with  greenish-yellow  spots. 
Now,  all  the  pheasant  eggs  which  I  have  seen  were 
either  of  a  pale  uniform  blue  — a  scarce  variety — 
or  they  were  uniformly  olive-brown.  I  should  have 
thought  that  Mr.  Djanaschvili  had  made  a  lapsus 
calami,  were  it  not  that  his  experience  receives  inde- 
pendent confirmation  from  another  Russian  gentle- 
man, who  states  that  the  eggs  of  the  pheasant  of  the 
Caucasus  '  are  olive-coloured,  with  grey  spots.'  There 
is  nothing  new  in  this,  for  Aristotle  mentions  it  : 
'The  colours  of  eggs  vary  in  different  kinds  of 
birds.  Some  have  white  eggs,  as  pigeons,  part- 
ridges ;  some  yellow,  as  those  inhabiting  streams  ; 
others  are  spotted,  as  those  of  the  meleagris  and 
pheasant.' 2 

There  is  evidently  room  for  further  inquiry  about 
the  eggs  of  the  Caucasian  pheasants. 

Another  point  of  interest  is  the  number  of  eggs 

1  Zoologist,  1894,  p.  266. 

2  History  of  Animals,  book  vi.  chap.  ii. 


THE  PHEASANT  OF  THE  WOODLANDS  31 


laid  by  a  single  hen  pheasant.  One  Russian  sports- 
man says  that  the  bird  lays  from  twelve  to  twenty-four 
eggs.  A  second  considers  that  a  clutch  of  pheasant 
eggs  varies  from  twelve  to  twenty.  The  third  remarks 
that  he  can  personally  vouch  for  a  hen  laying  fifteen 
eggs.  Mr.  Djanaschvili  says  that  the  number  of  eggs 
varies  from  ten  to  fifteen.  This  latter  is  in  harmony 
with  my  experience,  and  we  may  safely  infer  that, 
when  more  than  fifteen  eggs  are  found  in  one  nest, 
two  hen  pheasants  have  probably  laid  together. 
There  is  nothing  surprising  in  their  doing  so.  Any 
Highland  keeper  would  tell  you  that  the  pheasant 
often  lays  along  with  other  birds,  such  as  the  part- 
ridge, grouse,  grey  hen,  capercailzie,  and  landrail  ; 
sometimes  her  eggs  are  found  with  those  of  the  wild 
duck  and  woodcock.  This  phenomenon  occurs  pretty 
frequently  ;  Mr.  Yuille  states  that  he  has  '  seen  young 
pheasants  hatched  and  reared  by  grouse,  in  company 
with  their  own  young,  and  they  grew  up  to  maturity.' 
Mr.  Djanaschvili  thinks  that  eggs  are  rarely  addled, 
but  in  my  experience  they  are  often  unfertile. 
And  this  reminds  me  of  an  amusing  incident  that 
happened  a  few  years  ago.  I  was  staying  at  a  village 
inn  in  the  Rhine  country,  when  a  Frenchman  who 
leased  the  shootings  in  the  neighbourhood  unex- 
pectedly arrived  to  see  how  his  keepers  were  succeed- 


32     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


ing  in  rearing  game.  We  spent  a  pleasant  evening 
together,  in  the  course  of  which  I  happened  to 
express  an  interest  in  the  eggs  of  birds.  When  we 
met  at  breakfast  next  morning,  my  new  acquaintance 
produced  an  addled  pheasant's  egg,  which  he  then 
and  there  presented  to  me  as  a  valuable  addition  to 
my  collection  of  egg  shells  ! 

A  more  droll  incident  befell  a  friend  of  mine  in 
Derbyshire,  but  it  shall  be  narrated  in  his  own 
words  :  '  The  rape  of  the  pheasant's  eggs  was  on  this 
wise.  A  housemaid  of  ours  had  friends  over  here 
from  Sheffield.  The  day  being  fine,  they  decided  to 
walk  over  to  Haddon  Hall.  As  they  were  returning 
back  by  the  footpath  through  the  fields,  her  surprise 
was  great  when  she  beheld  quite  near  the  path  a  nest 
full  of  sh'iny  brown  eggs.  In  her  hand  was  one  of 
those  little  leather  bags  in  which  the  fair  sex  some- 
times stow  away  a  handkerchief.  She  knew  that  I 
collected  eggs,  and  what  better  receptacle  could  there 
be  than  the  little  bag  ?  They  were  quickly  deposited 
therein  and  carefully  carried  home.  When  she 
arrived  here,  she  informed  me  that  she  had  found 
something  for  me.  I  looked  into  her  wretched  bag 
and  there  saw  the  beautiful  brown  pheasant's  eggs. 
I  exclaimed,  "  Do  you  know  what  they  are  ?  "  She 
replied  in  the  negative,  so  I  informed  her.  But  she 


THE  PHEASANT  OF  THE  WOODLANDS   33 


seemed  not  the  least  perturbed  and  said,  "  /  thought 
that  they  were  probably  blackbird's  eggs  !  "  ' 

The  period  required  for  the  incubation  of  the  eggs 
of  the  pheasant  has  been  variously  estimated.  Mr. 
William  Evans,  who  has  made  the  incubation  of  birds' 
eggs  a  subject  of  special  research,  states  that  the  eggs 
of  the  pheasant  usually  hatch  out  at  the  very  end  of 
the  twenty-third  day.  Of  the  eggs  which  this  writer 
placed  under  hens,  two  chicks  hatched  out  on  the 
twenty-second  day,  thirty  hatched  on  the  twenty-third, 
one  hundred  and  three  hatched  on  the  twenty-fourth, 
and  five  on  the  twenty-fifth.1 

The  Rev.  G.  C.  Green  has  recorded  a  curious 
instance  of  a  cock  pheasant  voluntarily  sitting  on  nine 
eggs  and  hatching  out  the  young  (Field,  June  27, 
1891).  I  have  seen  great  numbers  of  poults  trampled 
upon  by  brooding  fowls,  a  catastrophe  which  the  chicks 
escape  in  a  state  of  nature.  '  On  the  chicks  being 
hatched,'  writes  Mr.  Djanaschvili,  '  the  mother  first 
dries  and  warms  them  under  her  wings,  and  then 
feeds  them  with  small  grains.  During  the  first  few 
days  the  chicks  are  almost  entirely  covered  with  a 
delicate  yellowish  down,  which  in  time  turns  greyish- 
brown.  As  soon  as  the  chicks  get  a  little  stronger,  the 
mother  takes  them  to  run  about  and  search  for  food. 

1  Ibis,  sixth  series,  vol.  iii.  p.  76. 

D 


34     NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

On  these  occasions  they  preserve  the  most  absolute 
silence,  and  from  excessive  caution  scarcely  seem  to 
walk,  but,  as  it  were,  glide  along  the  ground  between 
the  stalks  of  wheat  or  reeds.  In  case  of  any  danger 
threatening,  the  mother  utters  a  shrill  warning  cry 
and  rushes  into  the  thick  undergrowth,  swiftly  fol- 
lowed by  her  brood.  The  unfledged  chicks  of  the 
pheasant  are  so  speedy  and  nimble  that  it  is  almost 
impossible  to  catch  them.  And  further,  the  yellow- 
ish colour  of  their  down,  which  is  almost  the  same 
shade  as  that  of  the  golden  corn  fields,  is  of  consider- 
able assistance  to  them.  The  mother  does  not 
entirely  desert  the  nest  till  her  brood  is  fledged,  unless 
it  is  discovered  by  the  reapers  or  some  other  enemy. 
When  the  young  are  fledged,  the  mother  with  the 
whole  brood  makes  excursions  from  place  to  place, 
with  a  view  to  finding  a  quiet,  comfortable  spot  where 
food  is  abundant.'  Another  correspondent  writes  also 
from  the  Caucasus,  that  the  pheasant  is  less  attentive 
to  her  young  than  the  ordinary  fowl ;  '  this  is  proved 
by  the  fact  that  one  may  often  come  across  young  ones 
of  different  ages  following  the  same  pheasant  hen.' 

Every  intelligent  keeper  will  admit  that  the  hen 
pheasant  is  far  inferior  to  the  partridge  as  a  nurse. 
The  former  is  most  jealous  of  being  disturbed  while 
she  is  sitting,  and  desertion  frequently  follows  an  un- 


35 


warranted  intrusion  ;  but  even  when  the  chicks  have 
hatched,  the  pheasant  is  a  careless,  clumsy  mother, 
content  to  abandon  the  majority  of  her  family  in  any 
emergency.  The  young  poults  feed  on  the  wood-ant 
and  its  cocoons,  as  well  as  a  variety  of  insects  ;  a 
light  warm  shower  brings  the  worms  to  the  surface 
of  the  ground,  where  they  are  seized  and  eagerly 
devoured.  Keepers  commonly  suspend  pieces  of 
carrion  in  such  a  way  that  the  maggots  or  larvae  of 
the  blow-fly  may  serve  to  regale  their  pheasant  chicks, 
which  soon  learn  where  to  search  for  those  that  drop 
to  the  ground. 

The  chief  enemies  which  the  pheasants  of  the 
Caucasus  have  to  elude  are  the  jackals,  foxes,  and 
large  birds  of  prey.  Many  eggs  are  destroyed  also 
by  the  inundation  of  flooded  rivers.  In  Great 
Britain,  the  fox  and  the  house-cat  are  the  worst  ver- 
min that  the  pheasant  dreads.  The  protective  colour 
of  the  plumage  of  the  hen  pheasant,  coupled  with  the 
fact  of  its  scent  being  absorbed  into  the  system 
during  the  labours  of  incubation,  play  an  important 
part  in  its  survival.  The  eggs  and  young  are  sought 
after  by  such  small  quadrupeds  as  .the  squirrel,  the 
hedgehog,  the  stoat,  and  that  bane  of  modern  civili- 
sation, the  hateful  brown  rat.  It  occasionally  hap- 
pens that  a  long-eared  owl  or  a  kestrel  takes  a  fancy 

D2 


36     NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

for  levying  blackmail  upon  the  coops  ;  but  the  excep- 
tion proves  the  rule,  and  the  damage  inflicted  by  owls 
or  kestrels  is  quite  insignificant.  I  have  known  a  hen 
sparrow-hawk  pull  down  a  hen  pheasant,  but  such  an 
event  is  rare,  I  believe. 

The  carrion  crow,  jay,  and  magpie  have  a  special 
penchant  for  game  eggs  ;  the  first  especially  has    a 
bad  record.     I  am  not  so  sure  about  jays.     I  have 
seen  lots  of  jays  in  coverts  on  the  Continent  which 
were  full  of  game,   and  I  asked  the  keepers  their 
reason  for  sparing  these  robbers.     Their  answer  was 
that  jays   feed  on  insects,  and  do  no   harm  to  the 
game   preserves.     To   test   their  theory    I   killed  a 
jay,  and,  sure  enough,  its  interior  was  crammed  with 
large  cockchafers.     The  moral  of  this  appears  to  be, 
that  jays  will  not  hunt  for  eggs  if  they  can  get  plenty 
of  insect  food,  but  that  when  pushed  for  hunger  they 
become   pillagers  of  eggs  and  young.     It  has  been 
alleged  that  the  Greater  Spotted   Woodpecker    has 
been  known  to  kill  a  young  pheasant,  and  I  confess 
I  partly  believe  it,  but  only  as  a  most  abnormal  and 
curious  eccentricity  on  the  part  of  that  bird.     When 
I    introduced   two  young    Greater    Spotted    Wood- 
peckers into  a  cage  which  contained  two  of  the  lesser 
species,  the  female  of  the  latter  attacked  one  of  the 
former  most  savagely,  beating  it  about  the  head  with 


THE  PHEASANT  OF  THE  WOODLANDS   37 

such  violence  as  to  produce  speedy  death.  But  such 
an  incident  is  quite  unlikely  to  recur,  and  no  pains 
should  be  spared  to  protect  and  encourage  our  wood- 
peckers in  every  possible  way. 

The  idea  of  the  comparative  tameness  of  home-bred 
pheasants  is  so  familiar  to  the  majority  of  people,  that  it 
is  startling  to  find  how  shy  are  their  kindred  in  the 
valleys  of  the  Caucasus.  'The  shyness  and  un- 
sociability  of  the  pheasant,'  writes  Mr.  Djanaschvili, 
'  has  become  so  well  known  that  amongst  the  Georgians 
of  the  Zakatal  district  it  has  passed  into  the  proverb, 
"  Unsociable  as  a  pheasant ;  "  also  the  saying,  "  Feed 
them  as  much  as  you  will,  they  will  still  always  keep 
their  eyes  turned  towards  the  woods,"  is  equally  applied 
to  the  wolf  and  the  pheasant.  Attempts  to  domesticate 
the  pheasant  have  always  failed.  The  trial  has  often 
been  made  of  placing  a  pheasant's  egg  under  an 
ordinary  fowl,  but  as  soon  as  the  chick  was  hatched 
it  has  always  succeeded  in  making  off  within  two 
or  three  days.' '  Another  correspondent  writes  that 
pheasants  '  love  solitude  and  promptly  fly  off  on 
hearing  the  slightest  noise,  fearing  themselves  to  be 
in  danger.'  He  adds  that  the  wild  nature  of  the 
pheasant  induces  it  to  shun  even  its  own  species. 

One  of  the  traits  of  wild  life  which  still  survive 

1   Caucasian  Agriculture,  October  27,  I&94- 


38     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 

in  our  semi-domesticated  pheasants  is  the  desire 
which  they  show  (especially  the  males)  of  escaping 
from  danger  through  their  fleetness  of  foot  rather 
than  by  their  speed  of  wing.  A  story  is  current  in 
Perthshire  of  a  short-sighted  sportsman  who  used  to 
shoot  regularly  over  a  tit-bit  of  cover.  Tradition 
says  that,  finding  that  he  could  not  always  see  his 
dog  in  cover,  owing  to  his  own  visual  deficiency,  he 
sought  to  remedy  the  misfortune  by  attaching  a  bell 
to  the  neck  of  his  spaniel.  The  result  was  that  the 
sound  of  the  bell  became  a  signal  for  all  the  pheasants 
that  happened  to  be  in  the  wood  to  make  themselves 
scarce.  Old  cock  pheasants  sometimes  run  a  mile 
before  beaters  rather  than  take  wing,  and  in  the  case 
of  an  emergency  will  even  bolt  into  a  rabbit  hole. 
This  is  exactly  what  a  knowledge  of  the  habits  of  the 
wild  bird  prepares  us  to  expect ;  for  the  latter  prefers 
the  thickest  covert  that  can  be  found,  and  usually 
skulks  in  reed  beds,  brushwood,  and  other  under- 
growth, especially  in  the  neighbourhood  of  running 
water,  for  the  pheasant  can  both  swim  and  dive  if 
necessity  requires. 

The  wild  pheasants  are  sometimes  disturbed  by 
grazing  cattle,  on  which  occasions  they  undoubtedly 
fly  a  distance  of  from  one  to  two  miles.  '  The  pheasant 
does  not  rise  high  in  its  flight.  It  always  tries  to 


THE  PHEASANT  OF  THE  WOODLANDS   39 


keep  near  the  ground,  so  that,  in  case  of  danger,  it 
may  instantly  dash  into  the  nearest  bushes  or  thicket. 
The  frightened  pheasant,  uttering  a  shrill  and  dis- 
cordant cry  of  alarm,  suddenly  flies  up  almost  per- 
pendicularly into  the  air,  and,  having  risen  from 
forty  to  sixty  yards  high,  immediately  shoots  off  at  a 
tangent,  and  then  flies  off,  at  a  right  angle,  to  the 
wood  or  thicket,  where  it  hides  itself  in  a  trice.' 

As  regards  the  distribution  of  the  wild  pheasant, 
we  learn  from  Djanaschvili  that  this  bird  is  still  to  be 
found  in  Mingrelia  and  Samouzakani.  In  other  parts, 
as,  for  instance,  the  districts  of  Sharopan,  Ratchinsk, 
and  Letchgoum,  pheasants  have  unfortunately  been 
altogether  exterminated.  In  Lower  Imeretia,  and 
in  Gouria,  very  few  remain ;  one  sportsman  with 
a  dog  can  with  difficulty  bag  five  head  in  a  day. 
The  local  inhabitants  of  Gouria  affirm  that  formerly 
pheasants  abounded  in  their  region.  This  also  is 
testified  to  by  the  geographer,  Vakhousti  Bagration, 
in  his  '  Geography  of  Georgia,'  completed  by  him  on 
October  20,  1745.  He  asserts  that  the  pheasant 
(khokobi)  abounds  everywhere  in  Georgia,  but  espe- 
cially in  Kakhetia  and  the  Zakatal  district.  The 
pheasant  is  still  common  in  those  districts  ;  but,  above 
all,  in  the  Zakatal  Circuit,  whence  every  autumn  large 
quantities  of  dead  pheasants  are  sent  to  Tiflis.  Mr. 


40    NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


Djanaschvili  believes  that  the  pheasant  '  delights  to 
live  in  warm,  low-lying,  and  somewhat  damp  localities. 
In  summer  and  early  autumn  they  keep  in  flocks  of 
from  ten  to  twenty  head,  and  sometimes  more.  In 
winter  the  coveys  or  family  parties  break  up,  and,  as  a 
rule,  the  birds  are  to  be  found  singly  in  spring,  or  else 
in  pairs  ;  sometimes  several  cocks  are  found  together.' 

An  interesting  fact  to  game  preservers  is  that  the 
wild  pheasants  perform  migratory  movements.  '  With 
us  in  the  Zakatal  Circuit,'  says  Djanaschvili,  '  the 
pheasant  in  the  summer  often  migrates  to  the  higher 
localities  at  the  foot  of  the  mountains  ;  but,  after  the 
crops  are  gathered  in,  and  on  the  approach  of  the  first 
cold  weather  of  the  autumn,  it  again  returns  to  the 
low-lying  valleys  of  the  river  Alazani,  where  it  passes 
the  winter  in  the  reeds,  long  weeds,  and  bushes.' 

A  question  of  interest  to  sportsmen  is  the  food  of 
the  pheasant,  which  in  this  country  consists  of  the 
tender  shoots  of  plants,  grass,  bulbous  roots,  worms, 
and  insects.  A  cock  pheasant  which  I  dissected  in 
the  month  of  June  was  full  of  the  roots  of  the 
common  buttercup.  Even  the  oak  spangles  attract 
the  attention  of  pheasants.  Sometimes  they  eat 
such  hard  food  as  hazel  nuts  ;  as  many  as  twenty- 
eight  nuts  have  been  taken  out  of  the  crop  of  a 
pheasant.  Mr.  J.  Theobald  extracted  ninety-three 


THE  PHEASANT  OF  THE  WOODLANDS   41 


acorns  from  the  crop  of  a  pheasant  cock.  Pheasants 
like  to  feed  upon  potatoes  a  short  time  before  they  are 
lifted.  In  the  spring  of  the  year  they  do  a  good  deal 
of  injury  to  newly  sown  barley.  When  hard  pinched 
they  feed  on  the  polypody  fern  and  many  other  vege- 
table substances.  They  have,  in  fact,  become  practi- 
cally omnivorous  in  this  country.  The  wild  pheasants 
feed  on  all  kinds  of  grain,  especially  wheat  and  barley, 
grass  seeds  and  berries,  grapes,  hips,  &c.  If  the  wild 
fruits  of  the  forest  become  scarce  in  winter,  they  feed 
in  the  nearest  fields  on  grass  seeds. 

In  winter  cattle  are  turned  out  to  feed  in  the  dry 
reeds,  which  they  trample  down,  and  the  pheasants 
are  then  generally  to  be  found  in  the  damp  spots 
which  have  escaped  their  attention.  They  are  shot 
over  dogs,  and  the  bag  varies  with  the  locality.  In 
some  districts  as  many  as  thirty  and  forty  birds  can 
be  shot  in  a  day  ;  but  such  numbers  are  due  to  some 
.protection  afforded  to  the  birds.  Nor  is  this  sur- 
prising if  we  take  into  account  the  persecution  to  which 
the  birds  are  exposed  at  the  hands  of  the  peasantry. 

The  following  method  is  adopted  by  peasants 
who  have  meadows  overgrown  with  coarse  weeds  or 
reeds  or  corn  fields  on  their  lands  :  '  In  these  meadows 
or  corn  fields  they  clear  away  a  space  about  the  size  of 
a  threshing  floor,  and  then  close  to  this  clearing  they 


42     NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

construct  a  hiding  place  in  which  they  can  lie  in  wait ; 
on  the  cleared  space  they  place  sheaves  of  wheat  or 
barley.  The  pheasants  discover  this  food  and  flock 
to  pick  it  up.  Then  a  flock  from  the  ambuscade 
follows,  and  often  several  birds  are  killed  at  one  shot.' 

In  some  districts  the  peasants  resort  to  a  third 
method  of  killing  pheasants,  which  was  formerly  prac- 
tised in  Europe — viz.  they  hunt  with  dogs  which  do 
not  point  the  birds,  but  put  them  up,  and  bark  until 
they  have  forced  them  to  seek  refuge  in  the  trees. 
When  the  birds  perch  aloft,  the  dogs  stand  under  the 
trees,  and  continue  to  bark.  The  shooter  soon  arrives, 
and  as  the  attention  of  the  pheasant  is  being  concen- 
trated on  the  dogs,  the  peasant  is  pretty  sure  to  get  a 
'  pot-shot '  at  the  bird. 

The  flesh  of  a  fat  pheasant  is  considered  most 
delicate  eating ;  the  Russians  generally  eat  their  phea- 
sants roasted  with  butter.  As  the  pheasants  are 
generally  fattest  after  harvest,  they  are  much  sought 
after  at  the  end  of  summer  and  in  early  autumn,  at 
which  time  whole  flocks  of  pheasants  roam  about  in 
the  stubble  fields  with  the  cocks  at  their  head. 

• 

The  weight  of  game  birds  is  always  a  welcome  topic 
at  the  end  of  a  day's  sport.  The  English-bred  pheasant 
is  generally  found  to  scale  between  three  and  four 
pounds.  The  maximum  weight  yet  attained  appears 


THE  PHEASANT  OF  THE  WOODLANDS   43 

to  be  five  pounds  fifteen  ounces,  as  weighed  by 
Admiral  Sir  Houston  Stewart.  Others  have  scaled 
from  four  pounds  twelve  ounces  to  five  pounds  twelve 
ounces. 

Mr.  Stuart  informs  me  that  the  weight  of  a  fat  full- 
grown  cock  pheasant  shot  in  the  Caucasus  approxi- 
mates to  about  five  pounds,  Russian  weight,  while  a 
similar  hen  bird  would  scale  about  four  pounds  and  a 
half.  But  the  usual  weight  of  an  ordinary  wild  phea- 
sant cock  is  about  four  pounds,  Russian  weight,  and 
that  of  the  hen  nearly  a  pound  less.  Mr.  Djanaschvili 
considers  that  a  full-grown  cock  pheasant  should  scale 
about  four  Russian  pounds.  The  hen  is  about  one 
pound  lighter. 

Mr.  W.  B.  Tegetmeier,  whose  lifelong  experience 
of  the  pheasant  is  probably  unique,  figured  the  heads 
of  two  remarkable  pheasants  in  the  Field  of  January 
12,  1895,  with  a  view  of  exemplifying  the  wonderful 
way  in  which  these  birds  contrive  to  survive  the  most 
terrible  injuries.  One  of  the  birds  to  which  Mr.  Teget- 
meier drew  attention  had  been  deprived  of  both  man- 
dibles, probably  by  a  steel  trap.  Notwithstanding  the 
serious  character  of  the  injury,  the  wounds  had  healed, 
and  the  bird  was  in  fair  condition  when  shot.  It 
weighed  two  pounds  five  ounces,  and  its  crop  con- 
tained thirty-three  beech  nuts. 


44     NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


CHAPTER   III 

FREAKS   AND    ODDITIES 

EVERY  man  who  shoots  is  certain  sooner  or  later  to 
come  across  some  pied  varieties  of  birds.  Partridges, 
grouse,  woodcock,  snipe,  and  a  host  of  common  field- 
row  birds,  vary  in  plumage  among  their  fellows.  The 
birds  which  show  the  first  departure  from  the  tradi- 
tional colour  of  their  species  are  often  marked  with  the 
same  patterns  of  colours  as  their  mates  ;  the  difference 
is  that  these  unusual  birds  reproduce  the  customary 
markings  upon  a  paler  or  darker  ground  than  we  are 
accustomed  to  see.  This  deficiency  of  colour  is 
generally  caused  by  some  physiological  suppression  of 
the  pigments  which  naturally  go  to  tint  the  feathers. 
When  this  irregularity  has  become  marked,  birds  be- 
come white  or  heavily  marked  with  white,  or  perhaps 
throw  off  a  sport  in  a  new  direction.  White  birds  are 
generally  called  albinos  ;  but  the  term  is  inadmissible, 
unless  they  combine  the  double  irregularity  of  corre- 
lating pink  irides  with  blanched  white  plumage. 

Birds  that  are  white  but  have  irides  of  the  usual 


FREAKS  AND   ODDITIES  45 

colour  cannot  properly  be  described  by  the  term  albino. 
They  are  examples  of  leucotism,  but  not  of  albinism. 
For  example,  I  had  a  beautiful  white  wood-pigeon 
brought  to  me  recently  ;  it  was  a  lovely  bird,  but  not 
ah  albino  in  spite  of  its  showy  garb,  because  its  eyes 
were  of  the  usual  colour.  We  have,  most  of  us,  admired 
white  pheasants  both  old  and  young.  On  the  whole, 
I  think  the  prettiest  are  the  tiny  chicks  covered  with 
snow-white  down,  which  forms  a  pretty  contrast  to  the 
mottled  appearance  of  their  fellows.  White  and  pied 
birds  tend  likewise  to  transmit  their  deficiency  of 
pigment  to  their  offspring,  for  leucotism  is  to  a  large 
extent  hereditary  in  pheasants.  Female  birds  do  not 
seem  to  vary  in  colour  as  much  as  cock  pheasants  ; 
but  this  impression  is  perhaps  partly  accounted  for 
by  the  fact  that  we  shoot  and  handle  a  majority  of  male 
birds.  The  brown  plumage  of  a  hen  pheasant  appears 
to  be  set  off  to  great  advantage  by  a  copious  admixture 
of  white  body  feathers  ;  but  this  feature  is,  in  reality, 
a  grave  disadvantage,  as  it  tends  to  destroy  the  pro- 
tective coloration  of  the  brooding  bird.  As  a  natural 
consequence,  it  renders  it  more  liable  to  be  discovered 
and  destroyed  by  foxes  and  other  predaceous  animals. 
A  few  pied  birds  in  the  coverts,  however,  add  to  the 
picturesqueness  of  the  scene. 

A  more  interesting  and  less  usual  variety  of  the 


pheasant  is  the  pale,  buff-coloured  form,  which  is 
popularly  known  as  the  Bohemian  Pheasant.  The 
title  is  a  misnomer  ;  how  it  was  invented  I  do  not 
know.  It  was  probably  a  freak  of  fancy,  for  the 
Bohemian  Pheasant  occurs  more  frequently  in  England 
than  anywhere  else.  The  variety  appears  to  have 
originated  with  the  Common  Pheasant,  at  a  time  when 
the  Ring-necked  Pheasant  was  a  stranger  to  Europe. 
A  good  portrait  of  a  so-called  Bohemian  Pheasant  is 
to  be  seen  in  the  Louvre,  among  the  chefs-d'oeuvre  of 
a  painter  named  Desportes,  who  flourished  between  1 66 1 
and  1743.  Two  magnificent  pheasant  cocks  of  the  old- 
fashioned  type  appear  running  before  dogs  in  the  fore- 
ground, while  a  pale  bird  of  the  so-called  Bohemian 
variety  is  painted  in  the  act  of  rising,  and  forms  the 
most  conspicuous  feature  in  the  upper  part  of  the  canvas. 
Oddly  enough,  I  found  a  very  similar  bird  to  this  Bo- 
hemian exposed  for  sale  in  the  Paris  market  in  Oqtober 
1894  ;  it  was,  unfortunately,  too  much  damaged  to  be 
worth  preserving.  But '  Bohemians  '  crop  up  among  the 
Ring-necked  Pheasants  as  well  as  among  plain-necked 
birds.  Mr.  C.  F.  Archibald,  for  instance,  lately  sent 
me  a  photo  of  a  fine  male  '  Bohemian,'  obtained  upon 
his  own  property  at  Rusland,  in  which  the  white  collar 
of  the  Chinese  bird  forms  a  prominent  feature. 
Whether  Isabelline  or  Bohemian  specimens  of  the 


FREAKS  AND   ODDITIES  47 


Ring-necked  Pheasant  are  ever  shot  or  snared  in  the 
proper  home  of  this  Eastern  bird,  I  am  at  present  un- 
able to  say.  Most  of  the  European  game  birds  are 
liable  to  exhibit  melanistic  variations  of  colouring  ;  but 
I  have  not  come  across  a  black  pheasant  of  either  sex 
so  far. 

A  curious  fact  in  the  zoology  of  the  pheasant  is 
the  comparative  frequency  with  which  the  livery  of 
the  cock  pheasant  is  assumed  by  birds  of  the  oppo- 
site sex.  This  peculiarity  is  not  by  any  means 
confined  to  the  pheasant.  I  have  myself  dissected 
examples  of  one  or  two  species  of  wild  ducks  which 
exemplified  such  a  departure  from  rules ;  and  my  friend 
Mr.  J.  H.  Gurney  has  drawn  up  quite  a  long  list  of 
birds,  the  females  of  which  have  been  known  to  assume 
the  dress  of  the  male  in  a  perfect  or  partial  degree.  It 
may  safely  be  assumed,  however,  that  this  curious 
biological  phenomenon  has  occurred  far  more  persis- 
tently in  the  case  of  the  Common  Pheasant  than  ot 
any  other  bird.  As  long  ago  as  the  year  1812,  Blumen- 
bach  read  a  paper  on  this  theme  before  the  Gottingen 
Royal  Society,  enumerating  ten  species  in  which  he 
had  ascertained  such  an  aberration  of  conduct  to 
occur. 

In  France,  Geoffrey  St.-Hilaire  published  a  paper 
entitled  '  Femelles  de  Faisan  a  Plumage  de  Males,'  in 


48    NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 

1825,  and  this  was  followed  two  years  later  by  YarrelPs 
essay,  '  On  the  Change  in  the  Plumage  of  some  Hen 
Pheasants.'  Yarrell  also  figured  the  ovary  of  a 
female  pheasant  in  male  plumage,  to  illustrate  the 
presence  of  internal  disease.  I  have  only  dissected 
one  such  bird  myself,  and  in  that  particular  case  the 
ovary  was  certainly  disorganised  ;  but  it  must  not  be 
supposed  that  all  the  female  pheasants  which  assume 
male  dress  are  diseased  or  even  barren  birds. 
Broderip  warns  us  against  rashly  accepting  such  a 
generalisation  in  the  following  words  :  '  Hen  phea- 
sants which  have  begun  to  put  on  the  livery  of  the 
male  are  not  always  incapable  of  producing  eggs.' 

Thus  Broderip  says  :  '  Sir  Philip  Egerton  has 
informed  us  that  a  hen  pheasant  at  Oulton  Park, 
Cheshire,  which  had  nearly  assumed  the  plumage  of 
a  cock,  laid  a  nest  full  of  eggs,  from  which  she  was 
driven  by  the  curiosity  of  persons  who  came  to  gaze 
at  so  strange  a  sight.  She  then  laid  another  nest  full 
of  eggs,  sat  upon  them  and  hatched  them  ;  but  the 
young  all  died  soon  after  they  were  excluded.' l 

I  have  never  had  an  opportunity  of  comparing 
any  large  series  of  these  abnormal  hen  pheasants 
together,  but  examples  can  be  seen  in  many  country 
houses.  The  late  Sir  W.  Jardine,  Bart.,  possessed 

1  English  Cyclopedia,  vol.  iv.  p.  284. 


FREAKS  AND   ODDITIES  49 

such  specimens,  and  very  fine  they  were.  The  best 
that  I  have  seen  of  late  years  belongs  to  Mr.  F.  P. 
Johnson,  of  Castlesteads,  Cumberland.  The  central 
tail  feathers  of  this  pheasant  appear  to  measure  about 
eighteen  inches  and  a  half,  or  about  three  inches  less 
than  those  of  a  good  cock  pheasant ;  but  I  did  not 
see  this  bird  in  the  flesh.  The  late  Mr.  Stevenson 
met  with  an  interesting  pheasant  hen  in  November 
1877.  'The  head  and  throat  were  far  more  glossy 
than  is  usual  in  such  birds,  and  the  feathers  of  the 
back  and  under  parts  were  of  a  peculiarly  rich  coppery 
tint.  The  Chinese  strain  was  forcibly  shown  on  each 
side  of  the  neck  by  a  marked  patch  of  white,  as  in 
old  cock  birds.'  ' 

Not  a  few  of  the  pheasants  killed  in  large  shoots 
will  be  found  to  show  signs  of  a  mixed  origin.  In- 
deed, if  the  truth  be  told,  the  majority  of  our  pheasants 
are  cross-bred.  They  are  generally  the  fertile  represen- 
tatives of  the  blending  of  Common  and  Ring-necked 
Pheasants,  and,  as  already  remarked,  show  plenty  of 
evidence  of  their  mixed  origin.  Mr.  W.  B .  Tegetmeier 
is  the  highest  authority  upon  English  pheasants,  and 
has  contributed  many  important  articles  upon  their 
history  to  the  Field  newspaper.  This  gentleman 
considers  that  the  use  of  the  term  hybrid  as  applied 

1  Zoologist ',  1878,  p.  44. 

E 


50    NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

to  the  cross-birds  between  any  of  the  varieties  of  the 
restricted  genus  Phasianus  is  incorrect.  He  prefers 
to  style  them  '  mongrels  between  local  varieties  of  the 
same  species.'  But  whether  we  call  them  hybrids  or 
mongrels  does  not  matter  much.  The  fact  that  they 
exist  is  what  interests  us.  To  tell  the  truth,  birds  of 
the  pheasant  family  form  the  most  curious  nuptial 
ties.  These  are  generally  due  to  the  accidental  or 
designed  meeting  of  birds  of  opposite  sexes  in  pens 
or  aviaries,  and  are  therefore  due  to  artificial  condi- 
tions ;  but  they  are  very  surprising  for  all  that. 

Something  like  a  score  of  different  hybrid  phea- 
sants have  already  been  procured  in  this  country. 
For  example,  the  Cheer  Pheasant  of  the  Himalayas 
has  hybridised  with  Temminck's  Tragopan ;  the 
Common  Pheasant  has  produced  hybrid  young  by 
pairing  with  the  Cheer  Pheasant,  with  the  Black- 
backed  Kaleege,  the  Silver  Pheasant,  the  Gold  Phea- 
sant, and  Reeves's  Pheasant,  as  well  as  with  its  near 
allies,  the  Versicolor  and  Ring-necked  Pheasants. 
The  Ring-necked  Pheasant,  in  like  fashion,  has  been 
found  to  produce  hybrids  with  the  Versicolor,  while 
the  Versicolor  Pheasant  has  crossed  with  the  Purple 
Kaleege ;  the  Lineated  Kaleege  crosses  with  the 
Siamese  Pheasant,  as  the  Black-backed  Kaleege  hy- 
bridises with  the  Rufous-tailed  Pheasant,  just  as  the 


FREAKS  AND   ODDITIES  51 

Gold  Pheasant  interbreeds  with  Amherst's  Pheasant, 
and  the  latter  with  Swinhoe's  Pheasant.  Indeed,  the 
crosses  which  have  taken  place  are  rather  bewildering 
to  a  student,  many  of  them  being  such  as  one  would 
have  thought  extremely  improbable. 

Now,  hybrids  such  as  those  just  named  do  occur 
from  time  to  time  in  our  coverts,  and,  when  they  are 
shot,  local  sportsmen  are  sorely  puzzled  to  know  what 
they  should  be  called,  and  how  they  came  to  find 
them.  Mr.  Tegetmeier  exhibited  two  such  hybrid 
birds  before  the  Zoological  Society,  representing 
crosses  between  the  Common  Pheasant  and  the  Gold 
Pheasant,  as  also  between  the  Silver  and  Common 
Pheasants.  '  It  is  needless,'  he  writes,  '  to  say  that 
these  specimens  were  not  designedly  reproduced.  How, 
then,  it  may  be  asked,  do  they  come  in  the  coverts  ? 
The  explanation  appears  to  me  very  easy.  Many 
persons  keep  Gold  or  Silver  Pheasants.  A  hen 
escapes  from  the  aviary,  gains  access  into  the  coverts, 
wanders  perhaps  many  miles,  presently  locates  her- 
self, in  default  of  a  proper  mate  she  associates  with 
the  ordinary  pheasant,  and  in  this  manner  the  hybrids 
are  produced.  This  is  equally  true  of  the  Silver  Phea- 
sant. Of  course,  where  these  birds  associate  with 
their  own  species  hybrids  would  not  be  produced  ;  but 
when  a  single  bird  is  at  liberty  and  has  only  another 


52     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF  THE  PHEASANT 

species  to  associate  with,  it  usually  pairs,  and  hybrids 
are  the  result.' '  Mr.  Tegetmeier  is,  no  doubt,  per- 
fectly correct  in  his  explanation  ;  but  there  is  reason 
to  think  that  the  majority  of  curious  hybrid  pheasants 
killed  are  birds  which  were  hand-reared. 

Dealers  cross  their  penned  pheasants  both  inten- 
tionally and  accidentally — just  as  it  suits  their  own 
convenience,  in  fact.  Sometimes  different  species 
may  pair  in  their  pens  without  the  knowledge  of  the 
pheasant  farmers.  The  eggs  of  the  penned  pheasants 
are  sent  out  in  hundreds  and  thousands  to  keepers  all 
over  England,  and,  naturally  enough,  a  small  per- 
centage of  eggs  produce  hybrid  young,  which  are 
reared  along  with  the  usual  mongrel  pheasants,  and 
take  to  ranging  the  woods  like  the  rest  of  the  young 
birds  as  they  become  strong  and  independent.  The 
fact  remains,  however,  that  the  foreign  pheasants 
which  have  been  turned  down  in  England  do  volun- 
tarily interbreed  with  the  Common  Pheasant  in  a  state 
of  liberty.  M.  Suchetet,  who  has  paid  much  atten- 
tion to  hybrids,  states  that  he  cannot  find  any  evi- 
dence that  Reeves's  Pheasant  crosses  with  the  Common 
Pheasant  in  any  of  the  great  preserves  which  are  in- 
habited by  both  species  on  the  Continent.  The 
Prince  of  Wagram,  for  instance,  has  possessed  a  strain 

1  Field,  December  1 6,  1893. 


FREAKS  AND   ODDITIES  53 

of  wild  Reeves's  Pheasants  for  the  last  twenty  years. 
They  have  bred  freely  in  his  preserves,  and  he  has 
shot  no  fewer  than  ninety  cock  birds,  besides  dispos- 
ing of  fifty- five  pairs  of  live  birds,  and  others  have 
been  shot  after  they  had  strayed  out  of  his  woods. 
But  these  birds  have  not  crossed  with  the  Common 
Pheasants  which  share  their  haunts.  On  the  con- 
trary, the  larger  birds  chase  the  others  off  the  ground. 
They  often  indulge  in  furious  fights,  the  result  some- 
times being  that  they  kill  one  another.  M.  Dably 
has  kept  both  these  species  in  his  park  at  Saint- 
Germain-les-Corbeil  for  six  years,  and  they  get 
on  well  together.  The  hens  of  these  two  species 
sometimes  lay  in  one  nest,  but  they  do  not  interbreed. 
A  hybrid  between  Reeves's  Pheasant  and  the  common 
bird  has  indeed  been  obtained  in  France,  but  M.  Van 
Kempen,  who  bought  it  at  Lille  in  December  1879, 
ascertained  that  it  had  been  sent  thither  in  a  consign- 
ment of  English  pheasants.  But  wild  pheasants  are- 
well  known  to  interbreed  in  cases  where  their  territory 
happens  to  overlap,  as  is  the  case  with  the  Black- 
backed  and  White-crested  Kaleege.  Moreover,  M. 
Maingounat,  a  Paris  naturalist,  informed  M.  Suchetet 
that  he  found  among  a  consignment  of  Versicolor  and 
Scemmerring's  Pheasants  a  single  individual  which 
presented  well-defined  characteristics  of  both  these 


54     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

species,  and   was   therefore    an    undoubted    hybrid. 
This  bird  had  been  killed  in  the  wild  state.1 

Longolius,  the  author  of  a  curious  little  book  which 
I  have  only  seen  in  the  Bodleian  Library,  entitled 
'Dialogus  de  Avibus,'  published  at  Cologne  in  1544, 
gives  us  curious  and  highly  circumstantial  directions  as 
to  breeding  cross-bred  pheasants,  an  enterprise  which 
he  describes  as  being  very  speculative  but  often  profit- 
able. The  plan  adopted  by  the  pheasant  breeder  of 
those  days  was  to  confine  a  single  cock  pheasant  in  a 
room  or  pen  ten  feet  long  and  the  same  in  breadth. 
The  floor  was  covered  with  brushwood  and  dry  earth. 
All  the  small  windows  faced  south,  the  light  entering 
chiefly  from  above.  The  pen  was  divided  by  a  hurdle 
of  wicker-work,  in  which  a  space  large  enough  to 
admit  the  head  and  neck  of  a  bird  was  left  open. 
The  pheasant  reigned  supreme  in  one  half  of  the 
aviary.  At  the  beginning  of  spring,  the  breeder 
selected  some  common  hens,  known  to  be  good 
layers,  and  of  similar  colour  to  a  hen  pheasant. 
These  birds  were  then  fed  together  for  some  days,  but 
their  food  was  strewn  in  such  a  way  that  the  cock 
pheasant  could  devour  his  share  of  the  food  by  cran- 
ing his  neck  through  the  orifice  left  for  that  purpose 
in  the  hurdle.  The  birds  were  kept  apart  thus  at 
1  Suchetet,  Les  Oiseaux  ffybrtdes,  p.  84. 


FREAKS  AND   ODDITIES  55 

first,  because  it  was  feared  that  otherwise  the  pheasant 
might  attack  the  hens  and  do  them  an  injury.  But 
after  he  had  become  accustomed  to  them,  the  hen 
upon  which  he  seemed  to  have  bestowed  most  favour 
was  admitted  to  his  presence,  and  the  food  increased. 
It  was  found  that  the  pheasant  often  tried  to  kill  the 
first  hen  introduced  to  him,  in  which  case  the  poultry- 
man  would  wring  the  neck  of  the  rejected  partner,  but 
continued  to  introduce  other  hens,  until  the  pheasant 
eventually  paired  with  them.  The  young  hybrids 
resulting  from  this  cross  were  reared  on  meal  and 
wild  berries,  and  eventually  sold  as  pheasants  for  the 
market. 

The  pheasant  is  apt  to  stray  away  from  its  usual 
haunts  in  the  spring  of  the  year,  when  single  males 
often  take  up  their  abode  in  some  small  cover  in  the 
vicinity  of  a  keeper's  house.  Under  such  circum- 
stances a  cock  pheasant  often  exhibits  his  pugnacity 
in  attempting  to  drive  away  the  domestic  cocks ; 
should  the  former  bird  succeed  in  this  enterprise,  he 
proceeds  to  pair  with  the  hens,  which  are  not  disin- 
clined to  receive  the  overtures  of  the  stranger.  Such 
an  alliance  results  in  the  production  of  hybrid  young, 
which  generally  resemble  their  female  parent  in  most 
particulars.  These  cross-bred  birds,  therefore,  differ 
much  inter  se,  according  to  their  origin. 


56     NATURAL   HISTOKY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


The  late  Mr.  Stevenson  met  with  three  such 
hybrids  in  Norfolk,  produced  from  the  union  of  a 
cock  pheasant  with  a  Cochin  China  fowl,  a  cross- 
bred game  Dorking,  and  a  black  bantam  respec- 
tively. These  three  birds  were  all  procured  in  a  wild 
state.  The  second  of  the  three,  which  proved  to  be  a 
male,  '  had  been  repeatedly  seen  amongst  the  phea- 
sants in  the  wood  when  the  beaters  were  driving  the 
game  towards  the  guns  ;  but  as  it  ran  with  great  swift- 
ness, and  never  attempted  to  rise  on  the  wing,  it 
always  managed  to  escape,  and  was  at  last  netted  to 
ascertain  what  it  was.  It  measured  thirty-two  inches 
from  the  tip  of  its  beak  to  the  extremity  of  the  tail, 
stood  nineteen  inches  from  the  sole  of  the  foot  to  the 
crown  of  the  head,  and  weighed  seven  and  three- 
quarter  pounds.  In  its  general  appearance  it  had  a 
strange  admixture  of  both  pheasant  and  fowl,  and  was 
not  unlike  a  capercailzie  cock  about  the  head  and  neck. 
The  legs  were  clean  and  strong  without  spurs,  and 
decidedly  gallinaceous  in  character ;  the  beak  large 
and  powerful,  and  the  tail  long  and  rounded,  with  the 
middle  feathers  somewhat  the  longest.  The  plumage 
may  be  described  as  of  a  rich  glossy  green  about  the 
head,  neck  all  round,  and  the  upper  part  of  the 
breast ;  back  and  wings  mottled  with  rich  dark 
chestnut  glossed  here  and  there  with  green,  and  each 
feather  tipped  with  a  metallic  shade  of  green  ;  the 


FREAKS  AND    ODDITIES  57 

lower  parts  of  the  back  and  upper  tail  coverts  more 
green  than  black  ;  under  parts  brown,  dashed  with 
buffy-white  in  places  ;  tail  feathers  black,  slightly 
marked  on  some  of  the  webs  longitudinally  with 
dull  white,  or  slightly  freckled.'1  The  hybrid 
which  Mr.  Stevenson  examined,  between  a  pheasant 
and  bantam,  was  entirely  black,  with  dark  green 
reflections  :  the  tail  was  shaped  like  that  of  a  phea- 
sant, but  the  legs  and  feet  resembled  those  of  a 
common  fowl. 

Three  very  different  birds,  a  cock  and  two  hens, 
were  shown  at  the  last  ornithological  exhibition  at 
Stargard,  in  Pomerania.  The  hen  which  had  pro- 
duced them  had  been  kept  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
the  forest,  and  had  mated  with  a  wild  pheasant.  The 
mules  resulting  from  this  cross  were  white,  with  yellow 
reflections  upon  their  feathers. 

At  a  sale  of  duplicate  specimens  from  the  collection 
of  Mr.  J.  Whitaker,  a  number  of  interesting  hybrids 
were  exhibited,  and  among  others  several  hybrids 
between  the  blackcock  and  pheasant.  Mules  of  this 
kind  have  been  known  in  England  ever  since  Gilbert 
White  wrote  his  '  History  of  Selborne.'  The  first 
mentioned  was  shot  at  Holt,  in  Sussex,  but  others 
have  been  obtained  in  various  parts  of  England,  as 
well  as  in  Scotland  and  Ireland. 

1  Birds  of  Norfolk,  vol.  i.  p.  368. 


58    NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


A  beautiful  plate  of  a  blackcock-pheasant  hybrid 
is  to  be  found  in  Mr.  J.  G.  Millais's  '  Game  Birds  and 
Sporting  Sketches.'  The  bird  is  represented  as  standing 
in  an  upright  position,  full  of  self-consciousness,  and 
is  apparently  ready  to  challenge  a  rival  to  the  fray. 
Mr.  Millais  remarks  that  this  specimen,  which  belongs 
to  Mrs.  Hunter,  of  Glen  App,  Ayrshire,  is  the  hand- 
somest hybrid  of  any  game  species  that  he  has  ever 
seen.  '  It  is  usually  the  case  that  in  most  of  the 
crosses  with  which  the  blackcock  has  anything  to  do 
the  young  take  very  strongly  after  him,  and  are  gene- 
rally of  a  very  plain  and  black  appearance,  without 
possessing  that  noble  bird's  individual  beauties,  but 
in  this  specimen  the  characteristics  of  both  the  parents 
are  perfectly  distinct.' 

Mr.  Montagu  Brown  supplies  an  interesting  note 
upon  a  male  hybrid  of  this  kind,  which  he  received 
from  Major  Knight,  who  had  shot  it  in  Shropshire. 
On  dissection  it  proved  to  be  a  male,  and  measured 
twenty-five  inches  in  total  length.  The  plumage  of 
this  hybrid  resembled  the  pheasant  as  regards  the  tail 
and  wings,  but  the  head,  neck,  and  breast  showed  the 
characters  of  the  blackgame.  The  legs  and  toes  agreed 
with  those  of  a  pheasant  in  colour,  shape,  size,  and 
feathering. 

Thompson  furnishes  the  following  description  of  a 


FKEAKS  AND   ODDITIES  59 

male  hybrid,  which  was  shot  in  Wigtonshire  in  1835  : 
'  In  colour  the  hybrid  has  head,  neck,  breast,  and  belly 
black  ;  each  feather,  when  viewed  in  the  light,  ter- 
minating in  a  band  of  rich  claret  colour  tinged  with 
gold,  which  decreases  in  breadth  downwards,  until  at 
the  lower  part  of  the  belly  it  disappears.  On  laying 
back  the  breast  feathers,  the  inner  ones  exhibit,  about 
an  inch  or  less  from  the  tip,  a  somewhat  semicircular 
band  of  a  cream  colour ;  the  inner  feathers  at  [the] 
upper  part  of  the  back,  similarly  examined,  show  the 
cream-coloured  marking  of  the  pheasant,  the  remain- 
der of  the  feather  being  black,  except  the  termination, 
which  is  of  a  claret  colour.  Upper  part  of  back, 
wings,  and  tail,  not  resembling  either  sex  of  black- 
grouse  or  pheasant,  but  having  a  soft  blending  of  grey, 
brownish-yellow,  and  black,  beautifully  undulated  ; 
quills  differing  only  from  the  black-cock's  in  the  shafts 
being  blackish-brown.  Tail  feathers  obscurely  undu- 
lated with  black  and  brownish-yellow,  and  transversely 
barred  with  black,  the  bars  on  the  outer  feathers 
occupying  as  much  space  as  the  mottled  plumage, 
their  tips  black  for  an  inch  and  a  half ;  this  colour 
gradually  lessens  towards  the  central  feathers,  the  five 
longest  being  mottled  at  their  extremities.  These 
present  a  singular  reverse  to  the  longest  tail  feathers 
of  the  pheasant,  in  which  the  bars  become  broader  as 


60    NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


they  approach  the  end  ;  in  this  bird  they  altogether 
disappear  there.  Some  of  the  feathers  on  the  wing- 
coverts  have  the  shaft  cream-coloured,  with  the  centre 
black,  ending  in  a  point  towards  the  tip  as  in  the 
pheasant  ;  but  the  cream-coloured  band  surrounding 
it  in  that  bird  is  wanting,  and  the  extremity  of  the 
feather  is  mottled.  The  lower  part  of  the  back  and 
rump  has  a  blending  in  about  equal  quantity  of  black 
and  mottled  plumage,  each  feather  terminating  in 
claret  colour.  The  only  white  in  the  plumage  is  a 
spot  on  the  shoulders,  similar  to  that  exhibited  by 
both  sexes  of  the  black  grouse,  and  some  markings  of 
that  colour  on  the  vent  feathers.  Under  tail  coverts 
black,  mottled,  with  rich  reddish-brown  at  their  tips. 
.  .  .  Mr.  Sabine  and  Mr.  Eyton  describe  their  hybrid 
specimens  as  bred  between  the  cock  pheasant  and 
grey  hen.  But  that  the  produce  is  as  likely  to  occur 
from  the  opposite  sexes  of  those  species  is  indicated  by 
the  following  circumstance.  A  black-cock,  a  few  years 
ago  in  the  possession  of  my  friend,  William  Sinclaire, 
Esq.,  of  Belfast,  having  been  kept  along  with  a  cock 
and  two  hen  pheasants,  beat  and  drove  away  the  cock 
whenever  he  approached  the  hens  in  spring,  and,  as 
a  brood  of  pheasants  was  wanted,  had  to  be  removed 
to  another  inclosure.  The  black-cock  at  the  same 
time  displayed  towards  these  hen  pheasants  all  the 


FREAKS  AND   ODDITIES  61 

attitudes  by  which,  in  a  wild  state,  the  attention  of  the 
females  of  his  own  species  is  attracted.  The  naked 
scarlet  skin  above  each  eye  was  so  protruded  and  pro- 
minent as  to  give  the  head  somewhat  of  a  crested 
appearance,  and  the  finely  arched  tail  was  thrown  up 
like  that  of  the  turkey-cock  when  strutting  about  in 
his  pride.  The  love  call,  so  loud  as  to  be  heard  at  a 
great  distance,  was  almost  incessantly  uttered.' l 

An  instance  in  which  a  pheasant  cock  paired  with 
a  grey  hen  in  a  state  of  freedom  was  recorded  by  the 
late  Dr.  Moore.  A  single  hybrid  was  obtained  by 
their  union.  M.  Suchetet  has  lately  drawn  attention 
to  the  curious  fact  that,  although  the  pheasant  and 
blackgame  have  been  proved  to  produce  hybrid  off- 
spring in  upwards  of  thirty  separate  instances  in  Great 
Britain,  these  mule  birds  remained  entirely  unknown 
upon  the  Continent  until  about  eleven  years  ago. 

During  the  last  days  of  November  1884  a  strange 
bird  made  its  appearance  in  the  park  of  the  chateau 
of  Jeltech,  in  Silesia,  into  which  it  had  probably 
strayed  in  search  of  food.  No  blackgame  had  been 
seen  in  the  vicinity  for  five-and-twenty  years,  though 
pheasants  were  plentiful  enough.  The  rara  avis  was 
shot  by  a  gardener,  and  proved  to  be  a  hybrid  between 
the  pheasant  and  black-grouse.  It  was  a  female  bird. 

1  Natural  History  of  Ireland >  vol.  iii.  p.  43. 


62     NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

A  second  specimen  was  procured  in  Bohemia  in  1886, 
and  sent  to  the  Royal  Museum.  It  was  a  fine  cock 
bird.  A  pheasantry  had  been  established  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  Zele  in  a  portion  of  a  wood  much 
frequented  by  blackgame  ;  the  pheasants  had  thus 
been  brought  into  contact  with  the  black-grouse,  and 
this  hybrid  was  the  result  of  some  irregular  alliance. 
Dr.  Fritsch  considered  that  a  pheasant  had  been  the 
male  parent  of  this  bird. 

Before  quitting  the  subject  of  pheasant  hybrids, 
some  mention  must  be  made  of  the  capercailzie  inter- 
breeding with  the  pheasant.  Mr.  James  Lumsden,  of 
Arden,  recorded  the  first  authenticated  instance  of 
such  a  mule,  on  the  strength  of  a  specimen  shot  at 
Arden,  Dumbartonshire,  on  November  8,  1890  :  'It 
was  observed  feeding  in  a  corn  field  along  with  some 
pheasants,  and  on  being  disturbed  ran  a  considerable 
distance  before  taking  wing.  It  shows  very  clearly 
the  characteristics  of  both  species  in  both  plumage 
and  shape.  So  far  as  I  know,  this  is  the  first  instance 
of  those  species  breeding  together,  and  it  would  be 
interesting  if  we  could  state  with  certainty  how  the 
hybrid  is  bred.  We  have,  however,  no  proof  of  this, 
and  it  is  impossible  to  say  if  it  is  between  a  capercailzie 
cock  and  pheasant  hen  or  the  reverse.  When  shooting 
the  wood  near  where  it  was  shot  we  saw  both  cock  and 


FREAKS  AND   ODDITIES  63 

hen  capercailzie  and  pheasants,  but  came  upon  no 
more  hybrids.' ' 

This  singular  bird  was  further  examined  by  Mr. 
W.  Eagle  Clarke,  who  pronounced  it  to  resemble  a 
cock  capercailzie  in  general  appearance,  but  to  possess 
a  pheasant's  tail :  '  The  head  is  that  of  a  cock  caper- 
cailzie, but  the  bill  is  rather  weak,  and  the  cheeks  are 
naked  below  the  eye,  as  in  the  cock  pheasant ;  the 
beard,  however,  is  well  developed.  The  tarsus  is  only 
feathered  on  its  upper  part,  the  lower  three-fourths  or 
more  being  scutellate,  and  bearing  a  nodule  in  the 
place  of  the  Phasianine  spur.  The  toes  are  also 
mainly  those  of  the  pheasant,  for  only  the  faintest 
trace  is  to  be  found  of  the  lateral  horny  processes  so 
characteristic  of  Tetrao.  The  tail  is  decidedly  cuneate 
in  form,  but  not  so  pronouncedly  so  as  in  the  phea- 
sant, and  consists  of  eighteen  feathers.  In  colour  the 
feathers  of  the  crown  and  hind  neck  are  green,  with 
yellowish-grey  margins  ;  the  sides  of  the  face  green, 
with  dull  yellow  patches  ;  feathers  of  the  abdomen 
and  sides  with  two  dull  yellow  bars  and  a  broad  ter- 
minal margin  of  green,  giving  a  blotched  appearance, 
the  green  largely  predominating.  The  back  and 
scapulars  resemble  those  of  a  cock  capercailzie,  but 
the  vermiculations  on  the  feathers  are  coarser  and  of 

1  Scottish  Naturalist,  third  series,  1891,  p.  38. 


64     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

a  dull  yellowish  tinge.  The  tail  feathers  are  barred 
with  pale  brown  on  a  black  ground,  and  are  broadly 
edged  with  black.  The  wings  are  a  mixture  of  dull 
yellow  and  black,  and  the  primaries,  on  their  outer 
margins,  are  barred  with  pale  brown,  as  in  the  phea- 
sant ;  the  white  shoulder  mark  of  the  male  capercailzie 
is  conspicuous.1 

1  Scottish  Naturalist,  third  series,  1891,  p.  39. 


CHAPTER   IV 

OLD-WORLD    FOWLING 

THE  subject  of  fowling  is  closely  related  to  the  life 
history  of  birds,  because  no  one  is  likely  to  succeed  in 
trapping  or  snaring  birds  until  he  has  first  made  him- 
self fully  acquainted  with  the  habits  and  haunts  of  his 
intended  prey.  The  various  devices  for  capturing 
birds  which  are  practised  in  different  parts  of  the  world 
have  long  engaged  my  attention.  I  hope  to  speak  of 
them  more  fully  at  some  future  date. 

The  pheasants  of  the  Caucasus  are  chiefly  captured 
by  the  old-fashioned  method  of  setting  snares  in  their 
runs  (a  destructive  if  simple  engine),  or  in  specially 
prepared  pitfalls.  Di  Valli,  who  wrote  in  1601,  was 
wicked  enough  to  suggest  that  hen  pheasants  could 
easily  be  snared  upon  their  nests.  Olina,  who  followed 
Di  Valli  twenty  years  later  and  appropriated  most  of 
his  text,  advises  that  pheasants  should  be  snared  in 
the  spring-time,  when  the  birds  seek  their  mates  for 
pairing  purposes  (if  we  may  speak  of  a  polygamous 


66     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

bird  as  choosing  to  pair).  A  French  writer  on  sport, 
M.  Audot,  recognises  three  methods  of  poaching 
pheasants  in  France.  As  for  the  first,  '  il  consiste, 
lorsqu'ils  ont  remarque  1'arbre  oil  se  perche  un  faisan 
pour  passer  la  nuit,  ce  qui  est  tres  facile,  puisqu'il 
se  decele  lui-meme  par  son  cri,  a  bruler  une  meche 
soufree,  qu'ils  attachent  au  bout  d'un  baton,  afin  de 
1'elever,  et  de  faire  arriver  plus  vite  au  faisan  la  vapeur 
qui  s'en  exhale.  File  Petourdit  tellement  qu'il  chan- 
celle  bientot  sur  sa  branche,  et  torn  be  enfin  au  pied 
de  1'arbre.'  There  will  be  more  to  say  about  this  ruse 
in  the  next  chapter. 

Another  method  named  by  M.  Audot  requires  the 
use  of  snares.  He  informs  us  that,  in  order  to  ascer- 
tain whether  the  pheasants  really  frequent  the  runs  attri- 
buted to  them  in  the  coverts,  it  is  advisable  to  sprinkle 
some  oats  or  other  grain  in  the  supposed  tracks  of 
tKese  birds.  If  the  poacher  finds  that  this  bait  is 
consumed  by  the  pheasants,  he  proceeds  to  set  a 
series  of  horsehair  nooses  in  their  runs.  These  are 
made  of  twenty-four  hairs  plaited  together,  and  are 
placed  at  proper  distances  apart.  One  is  hung  up- 
right and  the  next  horizontally  ;  'the  success  of  this 
device  is  increased  by  the  precaution  of  stopping  up  all 
the  gaps  and  holes  with  bushes,  except  those  in  which 
snares  are  set.  Some  more  corn  is  then  sprinkled 


OLD-WORLD  FOWLING  67 

about,  '  dc  fagon  que  les  faisans,  en  trouvant  la  une 
plus  grande  quantite,  s'appellent  les  uns  les  autres,  et 
se  prennent  ou  par  le  cou  ou  par  les  pattes.' 

Another  plan  described  by  this  writer  is  to  find 
out  where  the  pheasants  are  in  the  habit  of  drinking, 
which  being  ascertained,  the  poacher  fixes  snares  in 
the  tracks  which  the  birds  follow  to  the  water.  To 
satisfy  oneself  and  spare  useless  labour  it  is  best  to 
employ  the  following  precaution  :  If  you  find  what 
you  suppose  to  be  the  tracks  of  a  pheasant  leading 
to  the  water,  you  should  disturb  the  soil,  and  render 
it  loose.  If  the  pheasant  is  in  the  habit  of  using  it, 
he  will  leave  the  fresh  imprints  of  his  toes  in  the  soft 
soil  upon  the  occasion  of  his  next  visit.  If  he  gives 
you  this  palpable  proof  of  his  passing  that  way,  the 
next  thing  to  do  is  to  place  snares  or  a  net  to  inter- 
cept his  passage. 

Savi  states  that  the  Tuscan  peasants  used  to  set 
snares  for  pheasants  in  a  variety  of  places.  Some- 
times they  fixed  them  in  the  ditches  which  these  birds 
were  observed  to  frequent  ;  sometimes  they  arranged 
them  round  the  birds'  watering  places,  or  set  them 
out  in  the  stubble  fields  ;  they  were  equally  adept  at 
hanging  snares  in  the  runs  which  the  birds  made  in 
bushy  places. 

English  poachers  have  informed  me  that  they  set 

F  2 


68     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


their  snares  for  pheasants  in  the  runs  which  these 
birds  make  in  the  hedgerows,  or  near  a  stack  yard 
which  the  creatures  visit.  They  do  not  use  horse- 
hair, preferring  to  trust  to  a  single  or  double  strand  of 
fine  copper  wire. 

The  third  of  M.  Audot's  methods  of  poaching 
pheasants  is  to  capture  them  in  nets.  The  most  im- 
portant of  these  is  the  hallier,  a  big  triple  net,  the 
central  portion  being  known  as  the  nappe  or  toile,  in 
contrast  to  the  net  which  hangs  on  each  side,  called 
the  aumee.  The  hallier  is  suspended  between  tall 
poles,  which  are  fixed  in  the  earth  at  proper  intervals. 
The  pochette  is  a  more  portable  net,  in  the  form  of  a 
purse  or  bag,  about  three  feet  in  length  between  the 
rings,  whether  intended  to  catch  pheasants  or  par- 
tridges ;  but  for  the  former  bird  a  mesh  of  three 
inches  is  preferred,  whereas  that  of  fat  pochette  a  per- 
drix  only  measures  two  inches.  When  the  French 
poacher  discovers  traces  of  pheasants  in  a  wood,  he 
sets  a  very  short  hallier  in  their  way,  allowing  the 
lower  end  of  the  net  to  hang  loosely  on  the  ground. 
But  the  sport  must  not  be  left  to  chance.  If  one  of 
these  birds  happens  to  be  caught  in  the  net,  he  makes 
an  outcry,  and  alarms  any  other  pheasants  that  may 
happen  to  be  in  the  vicinity.  The  poacher  therefore 
takes  care  to  remain  in  the  vicinity  of  his  net,  with 


OLD- WORLD  FOWLING  69 

the  intention  of  securing  and  silencing  the  birds  as 
soon  as  they  are  captured.  The  pochette  is  used  in 
the  same  way  to  bar  the  runs  of  the  pheasant  through 
the  brushwood.  Pheasants,  in  France  at  any  rate, 
wander  abroad  three  times  a  day  in  search  of  food — in 
the  morning  when  the  sun  is  rising,  about  u  A.M.  or 
noon,  and  again  about  two  hours  before  sunset.  It 
is  at  such  times  as  these  that  the  poacher  sets  nets  in 
the  way  of  the  birds. 

One  of  my  favourite  authors  is  Alexander 
Neckam,  the  foster-brother  of  Richard  Coeur-de-Lion. 
The  treatise  which  he  compiled,  '  De  Naturis  Rerum,' 
has  been  pronounced  to  be  '  an  interesting  monument 
of  the  history  of  science  in  Western  Europe,  and 
especially  in  England,  during  the  latter  half  of  the 
twelfth  century.'  The  eulogy  which  Neckam  bestows 
upon  the  pheasants  is  accompanied  by  a  terse  but 
pithy  description  of  a  mediaeval  method  of  netting  the 
male  of  this  bird.  The  fowlers  work  in  company,  not 
alone.  When  a  couple  of  men  have  decided  to  go 
out  catching  pheasants,  they  provide  themselves  with 
a  net  and  a  dummy  pheasant.  The  latter  is  painted 
up  to  represent  a  cock,  pheasant.  Having  marked 
down  a  wild  pheasant,  the  fowlers  put  out  their 
dummy,  and  hasten  to  conceal  themselves.  The 
male  pheasant  is  naturally  a  very  jealous  bird,  so  he 


70    NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


hastens  to  attack  his  supposed  rival.  The  fowler  who 
has  taken  charge  of  the  dummy  makes  it  appear  to 
retire  and  return  until  he  has  drawn  the  wild  bird, 
unconscious  of  danger,  within  reach  of  the  net  which 
his  companion  stands  ready  to  throw  over  it. 

Nam  gallus,  galli  clelusus  imagine  picta, 

Audax  certamen  temptat  inire  novum. 
Nunc  simulando  fugam,  mine  accedendo  recedit, 
Auceps  sic  voti  competit  ales  eum. 

By  far  the  most  detailed  and  interesting  account 
of '  the  taking  of  pheasants  with  nets  '  that  I  have  come 
across  so  far,  in  our  own  mother  tongue,  is  that 
given  by  Markham  in  his  tiny  duodecimo  volume, 
entitled  '  Hunger's  Prevention  ;  or,  the  whole  Art  of 
Fowling  by  Water  and  Land,'  published  in  London 
in  1655.  The  work  itself  is  so  rare  that  I  found  it 
very  difficult  to  obtain  a  copy  for  my  library.  A  good 
deal  of  the  substance  of  this  work  was  copied  into 
Willoughby's  '  Ornithology,'  by  John  Ray  ;  but  even 
that  is  a  tolerably  scarce  book,  and  seldom  seen  in 
private  libraries.  I  shall  therefore  endeavour  to  re- 
produce some  of  Markham's  '  waies  to  take  pheasants ' 
without  any  further  apology  : 

'  To  speak  then  of  the  manner  of  taking  the 
Pheasants,  you  shall  understand  that  it  is  to  be  done 
three  severall  waies  ;  that  is  to  say,  with  Nets,  with 


OLD-WORLD  FOWLING  71 

the  Lime-bush,  or  else  with  other  particular  Engines, 
of  which  there  are  divers  kinds  and  do  carry  divers 
shapes,  according  to  the  seasons  of  the  year  when 
they  are  used,  and  the  manner  of  the  place  in  which 
they  must  be  used,  as  shall  be  at  large  declared  here- 
after.' He  next  discusses  '  the  nature  of  the  Phea- 
sant : '  '  for  the  taking  of  the  Pheasant  with  Nettes, 
it  is  to  be  done  either  generally  or  particularly  : 
Generally,  as  when  you  take  the  whole  eye  of 
Pheasants,  that  is  to  say,  the  old,  the  young,  and 
altogether,  the  old  Cock,  the  old  Henne,  and  all  their 
pools  as  they  flock  and  runne  together  in  the  thick 
and  obscure  woods  ;  or  particularly  when  you  take 
none  but  the  old  Pheasants,  or  such  young  Pheasants 
as  are  come  to  the  age  of  coupling  and  payring,  so  as 
you  can  have  no  hope  with  your  Nettes  to  strike  at 
more  then  (sic)  one  Pheasant  or  two  at  the  most  at 
one  instant  or  fixed  time,  for  these  kind  of  birds  are 
of  a  melancholy,  sadde  and  sullen  disposition,  and 
after  once  they  be  coupled  and  paired  together,  doe 
no  more  keep  in  flocks,  or  companies  together,  but 
live  separated  and  asunder  from  other  paires.' 

We  are  next  instructed  as  to  '  the  generall  taking 
of  Pheasants  with  netts  : '  '  When  therefore  you  shall 
intend  to  put  in  practise  this  generall  way  of  taking 
of  Pheasants  with  netts,  which  (as  before  I  said)  is  to 


take  the  whole  Eye  of  Pheasants  both  young  and  old, 
and  altogether  without  any  reservation,  you  shall  then 
first  of  all  learn  to  know  the  haunts  of  Pheasants,  and 
their  usuall  and  common  places  of  breeding ;  other- 
wise doe  what  you  can,  your  work  will  be  frustrate 
and  your  labour  spent  in  vain.'  Markham  therefore 
sets  himself  to  describe  the  '  Haunts  of  Pheasants  : ' 
'  The  haunts  then  wherein  Pheasants  naturally  doe 
abide  and  breed  are  not  in  open  and  plain  Fields  (for 
their  fears  are  so  great,  and  their  cowardlynesse  so 
much,  that  they  dare  not  live  without  covert  or  shelter), 
nor  yet  under  the  covert  of  Corn-fields,  low  shrubes 
or  bushes,  neither  yet  in  tall  high  Woods,  where  every 
Tree  may  fitly  be  imployed  for  Timber.  But  in  thick 
young  coppses  well  grown,  and  ready  for  ordinary 
sail  of  small  bushwood,  Poales  and  the  like,  having 
been  divers  years  reserved  from  the  haunts  of  Cattell 
of  all  kindes,  and  from  the  tracing  and  paths  of  mens 
feet  :  by  reason  of  which  solitarynesse  and  safenesse, 
the  Pheasants  take  great  delight  herein,  and  will  here 
above  all  other  places  breed  and  bring  forth  her 
young  ones,  provided  that  it  be  ever  thick  grown  and 
obscure,  for  if  it  be  otherwise  thin,  plain,  and  passable, 
she  will  neither  breed,  nor  come  near  it,  for  she  ac- 
counts the  strength  of  her  covert  to  be  her  only  safety.' 
After  this  dissertation,  Markham  undertakes  to 


OLD-WORLD  FOWLING  73 

teach  us  '  How  to  finde  the  Eye  of  Pheasants  : '  '  Now 
when  you  have  thus  found  out  the  haunts  and  breed- 
ing places  of  the  Pheasant,  then  your  next  care  is  to 
finde  out  the  Eye  or  brood  of  Pheasants,  which  you 
may  doe  sundry  waies  :  as  first  by  your  eye,  in  search- 
ing up  and  down  those  haunts,  and  viewing  the  bushes 
and  trees  and  other  obscure  places,  where  for  the 
most  part  they  reside,  and  where  you  shall  see  them 
flock  and  runne  together  in  companies  and  heaps,  as 
it  were  so  many  Chickins  after  the  Henne  ;  or  else  by 
rising  early  in  the  Morning,  or  comming  late  in  the 
Evening,  and  observing  how  and  when  the  old  Cock 
and  Henne  calleth  to  the  young  ones,  and  then  how 
the  young  ones  answer  back  unto  them  again,  and  so 
from  that  found  to  direct  your  path  as  near  as  you 
can  to  the  place  where  they  meet  and  gather  together, 
lying  there  down  so  close  and  secretly,  that  by  no 
means  you  may  be  discerned,  but  that  you  may  take 
a  true  observation  how  they  meet,  and  how  they 
lodge  together,  that  from  thence  you  may  take  a  true 
knowledge,  both  how,  where,  which  way  and  after 
what  manner  to  pitch  your  Netts,  and  with  what  ad- 
vantage both  of  wind  and  weather,  for  the  gaining  of 
your  purpose.'  He  suggests,  however,  that  'if  it  so 
fall  out,  that  either  by  your  own  want  of  knowledge 
in  this  kind  of  practise,  or  through  any  other  naturall 


74   NATURAL  HISTORY  OF  THE  PHEASANT 

imbecility  either  in  your  eye  or  eare,  that  neither  of 
these  waies  sort  with  your  liking,  but  seem  either  too 
tedious  or  too  difficult ;  then  the  most  certainest, 
readiest  and  easiest  way  for  the  finding  out  of  this 
pleasure,  is  to  have  an  absolute,  perfect,  and  naturall 
Pheasant  call,  of  which  you  must  both  by  practise,  and 
the  instruction  of  the  most  skilful  in  that  Art,  not  onely 
learn  all  the  severall  notes  and  tunes  which  the  Phea- 
sant useth,  but  also  the  severall  and  distinct  applica- 
tion of  them,  and  the  time  when,  and  to  what  purpose 
she  useth  them  ;  as  whether  it  be  to  cluck  them 
together  when  she  would  broode  them,  to  call  them  to 
food  and  meat  when  she  hath  found  it,  to  chide  them 
when  they  straggle  too  farre,  or  to  call  them  together 
and  to  make  them  rejoyce  and  wanton  about  her,  and 
to  labour  and  seek  for  their  own  livings  :  for  any  of  all 
which  she  hath  a  severall  Note  or  tune.' 

Markham  promises  to  treat  of  the  bird-call  in  a 
particular  chapter,  but  the  intention  is  never  carried 
out.  He  does,  however,  admonish  us  as  to  the  best 
times  for  using  the  pheasant-call  :  '  Now  here  is  to 
be  understood,  that  albeit  these  two  particular  times 
of  the  day,  as  the  earliest  of  the  Morning  and  the 
latest  of  the  evening  are  the  best  times  of  the  day  for 
the  use  of  the  call,  and  the  finding  out  of  the  Phea- 
sants, whether  it  be  by  couples,  or  otherwise  the  whole 


OLD-WORLD  FOWLING  75 


Eye  or  company  ;  yet  neverthelesse,  they  are  not  the 
only  and  alone  times,  but  you  may  as  well  use  the 
call  any  time  in  the  forenoon  after  the  Sunne  rise,  or 
any  time  in  the  afternoone  before  Sunne  set,  by  alter- 
ing and  exchanging  onely  your  note  or  tune,  for  as 
before  Sunne  rise  and  at  Sunne  set  your  note  is  to  call 
them  to  their  foode  or  to  give  them  libertie  to  range  ; 
so  your  notes  after  Sunne  rise  and  before  Sunne  set, 
which  are  called  the  forenoone  and  afternoone  notes, 
must  be  to  clucke  them  together,  and  to  bring  them 
to  brood,  as  also  to  chide  them  for  their  straggling, 
and  to  put  them  in  feare  of  some  danger  ensuing.  As  for 
the  notes  of  rejoycing  or  playing  they  may  bee  used  at 
any  time,  yet  not  so  much  for  the  discovery  of  these 
young  Pheasants,  as  for  the  finding  out  of  the  old 
couples,  when  they  are  separated  and  gone  any 
distance  one  from  another,  whether  it  be  for  foode, 
through  affright,  or  any  other  naturall  or  casuall  occa- 
sions whatsoever,  as  every  hower  hapneth  to  these 
feareful  and  cowardly  creatures.' 

Markham  proceeds  to  read  us  a  lecture  on  '  The 
manner  of  using  the  Call  :  '  '  Having  thus,'  he  says, 
'  the  perfect  use  of  your  Call,  and  the  observation  of 
the  right  howers  and  seasons,  being  come  to  the 
hauntes  (that  is  to  say  into  the  aforesaide  thicke 
Copsies  and  Underwoods),  and  having  ranged 


76    NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


through  the  same  into  the  places  most  likely  and  best 
promising  for  your  purpose,  which  you  shall  know  by 
the  strength  of  the  undergrowth,  the  obscurenesse, 
darknesse,  and  solitarinesse  of  the  place,  you  shall 
then  lodge  your  selfe  so  close  as  is  possible,  and  then 
drawing  forth  your  Call,  beginne  to  call  first  softly 
and  in  a  very  low  tune  or  note  (lest  the  Phesants  be 
lodged  too  near  you,  and  then  a  sudden  loude  note 
may  affright  them),  but  if  nothing  reply  or  call  back 
again  to  you,  then  raise  your  note  higher  and  higher, 
till  you  make  your  call  speake  to  the  uttermost  com- 
passe  ;  provided  that  by  no  meanes  you  overstrain  it 
in  the  least  degree,  or  make  it  speake  out  of  tune,  for 
that  were  to  lose  all  your  labour,  and  to  give  the 
Fowl  knowledge  of  your  deceit,  whereas  keeping  it 
in  a  most  true  pitch,  and  a  naturall  tune,  if  there  be  a 
Pheasant  in  all  the  wood  that  comes  within  the  com- 
passe  of  the  sound  thereof,  shee  will  presently  make 
answer,  and  call  backe  again  unto  you,  and  that  in 
your  own  note  also,  and  as  loud  and  shrill  in  every 
proportion.  Now  as  soon  as  you  heare  this,  answer  or 
report  backe  againe,  if  you  finde  it  come  farre,  and  is 
but  one  single  voyce  and  no  more,  then  shall  you  as 
close  and  secretly  as  you  can  by  degrees,  steale  and 
creepe  nearer  and  nearer  unto  it,  still  ever  and  anon 
applying  your  Call,  and  you  shall  finde  that  the 


OLD-WORLD   FOWLING  77 


Pheasant  which  answereth  you  will  also  come  nearer 
and  nearer  unto  you,  which  as  soon  as  you  perceive, 
you  shall  then  observe  that  the  nearer  and  nearer  you 
meete,  the  lower  and  lower  you  make  your  Call  to 
speake,  for  so  you  shall  perceive  the  Phesant  herself 
to  doe,  and  her  in  all  points  as  near  as  you  can  you 
must  imitate,  and  thus  doing,  in  the  end  you  shall  get 
sight  of  the  Phesant,  either  on  the  ground  or  on  the 
pearch,  that  is  upon  the  boughs  of  some  small  Tree, 
as  it  were  prying  and  seeking  where  shee  may  finde 
you,  which  as  soon  as  you  perceive,  you  shall  then 
cease  from  calling  a  space,  and  then  as  secretly  and 
as  speedily  as  you  can,  see  you  spread  your  Nettes  in 
the  most  convenient  place  you  can  finde  betwixt 
your  selfe  and  the  Phesant,  over  the  toppes  of  the 
lowest  shrubbes  and  bushes  making  one  end  of  your 
Net  fast  to  the  ground,  and  holding  the  other  end  by 
a  long  line  in  your  hand,  by  which  when  anything 
straineth  it,  you  may  draw  the  Net  close  together,  or 
at  least  into  a  hollow  compasse,  which  done  you  shall 
call  again,  and  then  as  soon  as  you  perceive  the 
Pheasant  to  come  just  under  your  Net,  then  you  shall 
rise  up  and  shew  your  selfe,  that  by  giving  the 
Pheasant  an  affright  hee  may  offer  to  mount,  and  so 
be  presently  taken  and  intangled  within  your  Net.' 
Markham  instructs  next  how  to  take  a  number  of 


78     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   7 HE   PHEASANT 


pheasants  at  one  time.  The  method  to  be  adopted 
only  differs  from  that  just  described  inasmuch  as 
several  pairs  of  nets  are  to  be  used  instead  of  a  single 
pair.  The  fowler  is  advised  to  apply  his  call  '  till  all 
the  pheasants  be  commed  underneath  your  Nettes, 
and  then  boldly  discover  your  selfe  and  give  the 
affright  to  make  them  mount,  which  done,  take  them 
out  of  the  Nettes,  and  dispose  of  them  at  your 
pleasure.'  The  method  just  described  of  'calling' 
pheasants  and  then  driving  them  up  into  nets  sus- 
pended among  the  bushes  is  that  upon  which  our 
author  seems  to  rely  most  confidently.  I  am  sorry  to 
have  to  add  that  his  counsels  do  not  end  here.  In 
the  very  next  paragraph  he  describes  '  another  manner 
of  taking  these  pheasants  with  Nettes  (but  it  must  bee 
onely  when  they  are  very  younge)  when  they  are  called 
pootes,  or  pheasant  poots,  and  not  altogether  pheasants, 
and  this  manner  of  taking  is  called  driving  of  pheasants.' 
The  success  of  this  sport  depends  upon  two  con- 
siderations :  the  care  with  which  the  fowler  conceals 
himself,  and  the  judgment  with  which  he  avoids  all 
rashness  and  hasty  action.  Markham  hints  that  the 
fowler  should  take  some  pains  to  disguise  himself: 
'  it  shall  not  be  amisse  for  you  if  you  weare  over  all 
your  face  a  hood  of  some  greene  light  stuffe  as  sut- 
able  as  you  can  to  the  leaves  of  the  trees,  having 


OLD-WORLD   FOWLING  79 


onely  loope-holes  for  your  eyes  and  nostrills  ;  And 
also  about  your  head  if  you  wear  a  wreath  of  Oaken 
leaves  or  other  leaves,  it  will  be  very  good,  and  will 
take  up  the  eyes  of  the  birdes  from  greater  suspitions, 
as  also  if  you  trym  and  hang  your  garments  with 
branches  and  leaves  of  trees,  it  will  be  very  available 
and  bring  your  worke  to  effect  sooner  and  better.' 

As  for  the  actual  '  driving '  of  the  birds,  the  opera- 
tor is  directed  to  furnish  himself  with  an  instrument 
called  a  '  Driver,'  consisting  of  seven  '  good  strong  white 
wandes  or  Ozyers,  such  as  basket-makers  doe  use,'  fixed 
firmly  in  a  wooden  handle,  and  preserved  in  the  shape 
of  an  open  fan  by  a  double  binding  of  finer  twigs. 
Thus  accoutred,  the  fowler  goes  to  work  according  to 
the  following  instructions  :  '  First,  you  shall  either  by 
the  Art  of  your  eye,  still  in  their  haunts,  diligence  in 
search,  or  else  by  the  cunning  of  your  Call,  finde  out 
the  Eye  of  pheasants,  bee  they  great  or  small,  and 
assoone  as  you  have  found  out  any  one  of  them,  you 
shall  then  (alwaies  taking  the  wind  with  you  for  they 
will  naturally  runne  downe  the  winde)  place  your 
Nettes  crosse  the  little  paddes  and  waies  which  you  see 
they  have  made,  and  padled  in  the  woodes  (for  they 
will  make  little  tracks  almost  like  sheeps  trackes)  and 
as  neere  as  you  can  come  to  some  speciall  haunte  of 
theirs,  which  you  shall  know  by  the  barennesse  of  the 


8o     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF    THE   PHEASANT 


ground,  mutings  and  loose  feathers  which  you  shall 
finde  there,  and  these  Nets  you  shall  hollow,  loose 
and  circular  wise,  the  nether  part  thereof  being  fastened 
close  to  the  ground,  and  the  upper  side  lying  hollow 
loose  and  bending,  so  that  when  anything  rusheth  into 
it,  it  might  fall  and  intangle  them.' 

The  fowler  is  then  admonished  to  call  the  birds 
together  with  his  call  until  such  time  as  '  they  are  all 
come  in,  and  doe  beginne  to  cloocke  and  peepe  one 
to  another.'  The  bird-call  is  now  laid  aside,  and  the 
driver  comes  into  play.  '  With  this  driver  (as  soon  as 
you  see  the  Pheasants  gathered  together)  you  shall 
take  and  make  a  gentle  noise  upon  the  boughes  and 
Bushes  which  shall  be  round  about  you,  which  as  soon 
as  the  poutes  doe  heare,  they  will  presently  runne  in 
a  heap  together  from  it  as  fast  as  they  can  a  little 
way,  and  then  stand  and  listen,  keeping  all  as  close 
together  as  can  be  (for  then  they  dare  not  scatter)  and 
then  you  shall  give  another  racke  or  two,  at  which 
they  will  runne  againe  as  before,  and  thus  by  racking, 
and  dashing  upon  the  small  trees  and  bushes,  you 
shal  drive  them  like  so  many  sheepe  before  you,  which 
way  or  whither  you  please,  and  if  at  any  time  they 
chance  to  goe  that  way  which  you  would  not  have  them, 
then  you  shall  crosse  them,  and  making  a  noise  with 
racking,  as  it  were  in  their  faces,  they  will  presently 


OLD-WORLD  FOWLING  81 


turne  and  goe  as  you  would  have  them,  for  against 
the  noise  they  dare  not  come  for  their  lives,  and  thus 
you  shall  not  cease  driving  them  by  little  and  little  till 
you  have  brought  them  altogether  in  one  flock  wholy 
into  your  Nets,  in  which  they  -will  run  with  all  eager- 
nesse  till  they  be  so  intangled,  that  not  any  one  can 
escape,  but  will  all  rest  at  your  mercy  to  dispose  ac- 
cording to  your  own  pleasure.' 

Markham  next  dilates  upon  a  method  of  catching 
pheasants  with  birdlime.  He  advocates  that  the  top 
branches  of  young  willow  trees  should  be  utilised 
for  this  purpose.  The  twigs  are  to  be  made  sharp,  so 
that  they  can  either  be  placed  in  the  ground,  or  placed 
among  the  bushes  through  which  the  pheasants  usually 
run.  '  Also  if  you  see  any  little  smal  trees,  whereon 
the  Pheasant  useth  commonly  to  pearch,  if  on  them 
and  neer  to  the  branch  which  she  makes  her  pearch, 
you  place  two  or  three  of  these  bushes,  and  prick 
them  so  that  she  can  neither  spread  her  wings  to 
light  on,  nor  yet  take  her  wings  to  fly  off  without 
touching  some  of  them,  you  shall  be  sure  the  Phea- 
sant can  hardly  or  never  escape  your  taking.' 

This  discourse  winds  up  with  an  amusing  warning 
against  making  any  unkind  comparison  '  betweene 
the  use  of  the  Nettes,  and  the  use  of  these  Lime- 
roddes.'  To  give  any  pre-eminence  to  either  of  these 

G 


82     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


methods  were  needless,  and  could  serve  no  practical 
end  :  '  they  are  both  of  equall  vertue  and  goodnesse, 
and  have  indeed  each  of  them  their  distinct  times 
and  seasons  for  their  severall  imployments  ;  for  you 
shall  here  understand  that  those  Lime-roddes  or  the 
use  of  Lime  is  onelye  for  the  winter  season,  as  from 
the  beginning  of  Novemb.  at  which  time  every  tree 
hath  shed  his  leafe,  and  every  byrd  is  content  to 
pearch  upon  the  twigs,  which  are  the  very  figures  and 
Emblems  of  Lime-twigs,  until  the  beginning  of  May, 
at  which  time  on  the  contrary  part  every  Tree  is 
budded  and  doth  begin  to  spread  and  open  his  leafe, 
so  as  all  birdes  may  couch  and  hide  themselves  under 
the  covert  and  shaddowes  of  the  same,  and  the  true 
use  of  the  Nets  are  from  the  beginning  of  May  when 
Trees  are  leaved,  until  the  latter  end  of  October  when 
every  tree  doth  shed  and  loose  his  leafe,  so  there  is  no 
time  of  the  year  more  then  the  very  timeofingendring, 
but  may  be  exercised  in  this  pleasure,  whence  what, 
profit  may  arise  I  leave  to  be  judged  by  those  which 
keep  good  Houses,  and  such  as  have  good  stomacks.' 
Another  mediaeval  method  of  sport,  upon  which 
we  have  not  yet  touched,  is  that  of  shooting  pheasants 
with  the  cross-bow.  I  have  a  strong  impression  that 
the  Italians  used  to  shoot  at  roosting  pheasants  with 
the  bow  on  bright  moonlight  nights.  Whether  I  am 


OLD-WORLD  FOtVLING 


right  or  not  in  throwing  out  this  suggestion,  there 
need  be  no  doubt  that  the  practice  of  shooting  '  tree'd  ' 
pheasants,  which  I  described  in  the  second  chapter, 
had  its  exact  parallel  in  Europe  before  our  modern 
guns  were  invented. 

The  other  day  I  happened  to  spend  a  spare  half- 
hour  in  one  of  the  galleries  of  the  Louvre  which  pos- 
sesses a  fine  variety  of  pictures  illustrating  the  chase. 
One  of  the  points  which  the  trophies  of  gay  chasseurs 
thus  depicted  are  apparently  designed  to  exemplify  is 
the  nonchalance  with  which  a  true  Gallic  Nimrod 
'  pots  '  as  gibier  anything  which  carries  a  few  feathers. 
Thus,  a  day's  sport  is  represented  on  a  large  canvas  as 
including  a  brace  of  wild  duck,  a  great  bustard,  a  wood- 
cock, two  chaffinches  and  a  brambling,  a  curlew,  and  a 
great  spotted  woodpecker  !  The  picture,  however,  which 
interested  me  most  is  one  which  represents  a  fine  cock 
pheasant  (of  the  good  old  red  type)  perching  com- 
placently in  a  tree,  which  he  shares  with  a  bril- 
liant golden  oriole.  A  great  spotted  woodpecker  is 
drawn  in  flight,  and  a  couple  of  dogs  stand  together 
at  the  base  of  the  tree,  evidently  waiting  for  their 
master  to  arrive  and  shoot  the  bird  which  they  have 
forced  to  take  to  a  tree. 

As  a  practical  comment  upon  this,  I  may  quote  a 
few  words  from  Professor  Newton's  recently  published 


84    NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 

'  Dictionary  of  Birds.'  '  Formerly,'  he  writes,  '  phea- 
sants were  taken  in  snares  or  nets,  and  by  hawking  ; 
but  the  cross-bow  was  also  used,  and  the  better  to 
obtain  a  "sitting  shot,"  for  with  that  weapon  men  had 
not  learnt  to  shoot  flying,  dogs  appear  to  have  been 
employed  in  the  way  indicated  by  the  lines  under  an 
engraving  by  Hollar,  who  died  in  1677  : 

The  Peasant  Cocke  the  woods  doth  most  frequent, 
Where  Spaniells  spring  and  pearche  him  by  the  sent.' 

The  foregoing  pages  have,  I  think,  accounted  for 
most  of  the  old-fashioned  methods  of  fowling  for 
pheasants ;  but  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  other 
'  wrinkles,'  if  they  deserve  the  name,  are  to  be  picked 
up  occasionally  in  rural  districts  by  those  who  can  win 
the  confidence  of  our  English  peasantry.  I  have  often 
had  described  to  me  the  effect  of  steeping  grain  in 
strong  spirits,  this  '  doctored '  stuff  being  placed  on 
the  feeding  grounds  of  pheasants  and  other  birds  :  but 
whether  any  serious  credence  is  to  be  attached  to 
this  I  do  not  know.  There  can,  however,  be  no 
doubt  as  to  the  use  of  horsehairs  for  catching  phea- 
sants, though  I  have  no  reason  to  suppose  that  such  a 
device  is  extensively  employed. 

My  information  was  taken  down  from  the  lips  of 
an  original  sinner  named  Adam,  to  whom  the  serpent 
came  in  the  form  of  a  small  farmer,  in  whose  service 


OLD-WORLD  FOWLING  85 


he  was  working.  The  farmer  was  much  annoyed  at 
the  havoc  which  the  pheasants  of  a  neighbouring 
squire  wrought  in  his  newly  sown  barley.  'Now, 
Adam,'  says  he,  'we'll  have  some  of  them  there  phea- 
sants !  We  might  as  well  have  a  lot  of  cocks  and 
hens  as  them.  I  know  a  quiff  that'll  stop  them  from 
coming  and  eating  our  barley  ! '  So  the  two  conspira- 
tors set  to  their  nefarious  work.  First  of  all,  they  pro- 
cured from  the  farmer's  wife  a  quantity  of  white  peas. 
These  they  steeped  in  water  until  they  were  soft,  when 
they  pierced  every  pea  with  a  sewing  needle.  The 
next  step  was  to  insert  stout  horsehairs  into  the  peas, 
crossways,  cutting  off  the  ends  of  the  hair,  so  that  the 
bristles  only  protruded  half  an  inch  on  each  side  of 
the  pea.  Finally,  the  men  proceeded  to  sprinkle  the 
peas  upon  the  surface  of  the  ground  which  had  been 
sown  with  barley.  Adam  assured  me  that  when  he 
returned  to  the  spot  on  the  following  morning  he 
found  no  fewer  than  eleven  fine  pheasant  cocks  placed 
hors  de  combat,  the  fatal  bristles  having  stuck  in  their 
throats  until  the  birds  became  exhausted  by  their 
efforts  to  swallow  the  bitter-sweets  prepared  for  them. 
The  pheasants,  as  Adam  phrased  it,  were  'super- 
annuated,'and  allowed  themselves  to  be  secured  with- 
out difficulty.  Adam  was  'flait  to  take  them,  because 
'twas  out  o'  season,'  but  those  eleven  pheasants  were 


86    NATURAL   HISTORY  OF    THE   PHEASANT 


never  seen  again  in  the  Squire's  coverts.  It  was  in  the 
spring  of  the  year  that  they  came  to  their  mournful 
end,  a  fact  which  reminds  me  of  another  piece  of  what 
the  schoolmen  would  have  called  'original'  wickedness. 
Male  pheasants,  as  most  people  will  admit,  are 
extremely  pugnacious  in  spring  time,  and  readily  attack 
any  male  rival  that  may  happen  to  venture  upon  their 
territory.  When  the  pastime  of  fighting  cocks  was  ac- 
cepted as  a  fashionable  amusement,  country  folk  used 
to  divert  themselves  by  pitting  a  properly  accoutred 
gamecock  against  the  pheasant  of  the  woodlands. 
The  game  fowl,  armed  with  spurs,  was  turned  loose 
in  the  vicinity  of  a  cock  pheasant,  which  he  of  course 
proceeded  to  challenge  to  mortal  combat.  The  luck- 
less pheasant  ran  to  the  fray,  into  which  he  rushed 
with  fury,  only  to  be  cut  down  by  the  cruel  weapons 
provided  for  his  assailant  in  this  unequal  combat. 


CHAPTER   V 

POACHING    IN    THE    NINETEENTH -CENTURY    STYLE 

THE  various  devices  for  capturing  wild  pheasants 
which  we  glanced  at  in  the  last  chapter  possessed  the 
virtue  of  being  both  quaint  and  curious  ;  most  of 
them,  however,  belonged  in  a  great  measure  to  the 
Middle  Ages.  Such  of  their  number  as  happen  to  have 
survived  the  march  of  modern  progress  and  are  still 
extant  could  hardly  be  practised  by  anyone  except 
professing  members  of  a  guild  of  poachers. 

I  have  often  wondered,  by  the  way,  from  what 
source  the  terms  '  poach '  and  '  poacher '  came  to  be 
embodied  in  the  English  vocabulary.  The  dictionaries 
refer  us  to  a  French  verb,  pocher,  which  really  does 
seem  to  have  supplied  the  old  English  word  '  poche,' 
'  poatch  '  or  '  potche,'  signifying  to  thrust  at  or  stab. 
Shakespeare  puts  this  word  into  the  mouth  of  Tullus 
Aufidius  in  the  camp  of  the  Volsci,  when  he  ex- 
claims : 


88    NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 

I  thought  to  crush  him  in  an  equal  force 

True  sword  to  sword,  I'll  poach  at  him  some  way 

Or  wrath  or  craft  may  get  him. 

Coriolanns,  act  i.  scene  x. 

Carew  employs  the  \\ord.  poche  in  a  kindred  sense. 
'  The  flowk,  sole  and  plaice  follow  the  tide  up  into 
the  fresh  rivers,  where  at  low  water  the  country  people 
poche  them  with  an  instrument  something  like  a 
salmon's  spear.'  Of  course  poachers  may  sometimes 
destroy  pheasants  by  spearing  them  while  the  birds 
are  at  roost  ;  an  old  village  blacksmith  assured  me 
that,  when  a  working  apprentice,  he  was  once  required 
to  make  some  small  spears,  which  he  believed  to  be 
intended  for  the  purpose  of  '  clicking '  or  spearing 
pheasants.  The  probability,  however,  is  that  the  word 
'  poacher '  is  akin  to  the  French  poche,  a  pocket,  and 
was  suggested  in  its  English  dress  by  the  capacious 
inside  pockets  which  poachers  find  it  necessary  to 
provide  to  their  coats  or  jackets. 

But  our  French  neighbours  are  strangers  to  this 
enlargement  of  the  term  which  their  language  has  lent 
to  us.  The  word  they  use  is  braconnier,  and  it 
carries  with  it  a  full  share  of  obloquy.  Its  etymology 
is  simple  enough.  It  is  derived  from  the  substantive 
braque,  a  sporting  dog.  The  diminutive  of  braque  is 
bracon,  and  the  servant  who  took  charge  of  his 
master's  dogs  was,  therefore,  dubbed  the  braconnier. 


POACHING  IN  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY    89 


The  word  fauconnier,  Anglice  falconer,  is  based  upon 
the  title  of  thefaucon  which  that  dependant  carried 
on  his  wrist.  But  while  the  meaning  of  the  term 
fauconnier  remains  unaltered,  that  of  braconnier  has 
changed.  Originally  it  was  an  honourable  term,  but 
the  lad  left  in  charge  of  the  dogs  so  often  hunted 
game  on  his  own  account,  that  his  usual  title  became 
recognised  as  the  sobriquet  of  the  rascal  whom  our 
German  friends  frankly  call  the  wilddieb — i.e.  the  game- 
thief.  After  all  it  does  not  very  much  matter  what  we 
call  the  poacher  ;  his  existence  is  an  undoubted  evil, 
about  which  there  can  be  no  difference  of  opinion. 

Charles  Diguet,  a  well-known  authority  upon 
French  sport,  thinks  that  poachers  should  be  divided 
into  two  classes,  represented  Respectively  by  the  men 
who  use  the  gun  and  those  who  use  snares.  The 
gunning  poacher  watches  at  the  corner  of  the  woods 
at  dawn  or  shortly  before  nightfall,  in  the  hopes  of 
intercepting  a  stray  roe  or  perhaps  a  plump  brown 
hare.  Diguet  maintains  that  the  poacher  who  uses  a 
gun  is  a  less  troublesome  ruffian  than  the  man  who 
sets  snares  ;  he  bases  his  opinion  on  his  experience 
that  the  poacher  who  does  his  deadly  work  with  a 
firearm  seldom  kills  more  than  one  head  of  game  at 
a  time,  and  that  he  is  more  easily  detected  than  the 
poacher  who  works  silently.  I  fancy  that  the  majority 


90     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 

of  English  keepers  cherish  a  very  special  objection  to 
armed  marauders,  and  no  wonder,  for  the  butt-end  of 
a  gun  is  a  murderous  weapon  in  a  melee. 

There  is  nothing  peculiarly  national  in  the 
practice  of  shooting  roosting  pheasants.  Poachers  of 
other  races  do  the  same  as  the  Saxon  in  this  respect. 
Savi  tells  us  that  in  Tuscany  the  peasants  of  his  day 
(he  wrote  sixty  years  ago)  were  in  the  practice  of 
shooting  the  roosters  :  'On  a  winter's  night,  when 
the  trees  are  entirely  stripped  of  their  foliage,  the 
poachers  wend  their  way,  armed  with  guns,  through 
the  oppressive  silence  of  the  woods,  carefully  scru- 
tinising the  trees  ;  if  the  night  happens  to  be  clear, 
they,  with  the  practice  which  they  have  acquired,  easily 
distinguish  the  pheasants  roosting  on  the  branches  of 
the  trees,  for  they  generally  occupy  a  position  which 
enables  a  mortal  blow  to  be  delivered.' 

The  habits  of  pheasants,  by  the  way,  are  modified 
as  much  by  local  circumstances  as  those  of  other 
game  birds.  I  asked  a  Perthshire  keeper,  who 
observes  the  traits  of  all  the  wild  creatures  on  his 
ground  very  closely,  what  trees  he  thought  the  phea- 
sants found  most  suitable  as  their  nightly  shelter.  His 
answer  was  that  the  birds  which  he  watched  generally 
chose  to  roost  in  oaks  or  larch  trees.  He  added,  that 
he  had  himself  seen  as  many  as  eighteen  phea- 


A    FROSTY    NIGHT 


POACHING  IN  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY    91 


sants  perching  at  one  and  the  same  time  in  a  large 
tree. 

As  to  the  modus  operand!  of  shooting  sleeping 
pheasants,  my  information  is  derived  at  first  hand 
from  a  countryman,  who  admitted  to  me,  after  a 
close  cross-examination,  that  in  his  youth  he  had 
been  induced  by  older  men  to  join  them  in  their 
nocturnal  forays.  He  told  me  that  the  gang  he 
worked  with  made  it  their  business  to  watch  the 
movements  of  the  keepers,  so  that  they  might 
begin  their  malpractices  when  the  keepers  were  off 
their  beat.  The  members  of  the  gang  decided 
beforehand  upon  the  precise  coverts  they  were  to 
visit,  and  the  line  of  country  to  be  followed.  They 
often  initiated  their  adventures  by  approaching  a 
watcher's  house,  and  shooting  any  hand -reared  and 
half-tame  pheasants  which  might  be  about.  After 
firing  two  or  three  simultaneous  shots,  the  poachers 
picked  up  and  pouched  their  victims.  They  then  ran 
across  country  a  mile  or  so  to  some  other  covert,  in 
which  they  resumed  operations.  When  that  had  been 
rifled  they  hastened  to  another  and  another,  until 
they  had  satisfied  their  lawless  longings,  and  were 
glad  to  return  home  with  their  long-tailed  spoils. 

It  is  impossible  to  feel  anything  but  disgust 
in  the  contemplation  of  such  villany  as  that  just 


92     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


described  ;  yet  I  venture  to  say  that  most  sportsmen 
may  find  some  amusement  in  listening  to  the  yarns 
which  a  really  clever  poacher  can  relate.  Take, 
for  instance,  the  case  of  a  Gallic  rascal,  Philippe 
Devaux,  who  once  flourished  in  the  forest  of  Com- 
piegne.  He  was  a  native  of  the  village  of  Armain- 
court.  His  trade,  or  occupation,  was  dressing  vines  ; 
but  he  took  care  to  spend  more  time  among  the 
pheasants  of  the  forest  than  in  the  midst  of  the  strip 
of  vineyard  which  he  had  inherited  from  his  parents. 
An  accident  which  cost  him  his  left  thumb  early  con- 
ferred upon  him  the  nickname  of  Sans  Pouce,  or  the 
man  without  a  thumb.  Under  this  professional  title 
he  was  known  to  the  whole  countryside. 

At  the  beginning  of  his  career,  and  before  he 
had  made  his  mark  as  a  poacher,  Sans  Pouce  used 
to  carry  his  felonious  implements  beneath  his  loose 
cotton  blouse.  They  consisted  of  a  small  and  light 
fowling  piece,  a  phosphoric  tinder  box,  and  a  lantern. 
He  ranged  the  forest  just  as  he  liked,  but  he  pre- 
ferred to  shoot  over  those  parts  of  it  which  abutted 
upon  the  high  road  to  Paris.  Whenever  this  fellow 
marked  a  roosting  pheasant,  he  halted  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  to  ascertain  whether  anyone  else  was  in  the 
vicinity.  If  his  fears  were  allayed,  he  took  a  careful 
aim  at  his  victim.  His  gun  was  too  lightly  charged  to 


POACHING  IN  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY    93 

l>e  heard  at  any  great  distance  ;  but,  as  he  made  a 
rule  of  only  shooting  at  close  quarters,  any  pheasant 
that  Sans  Pouce  honoured  with  his  selection  was  sure 
to  fall.  It  was  at  once  picked  up,  wrapped  in  a  linen 
bag,  and  stowed  away  along  with  the  gun  at  the  foot 
of  a  tree.  Sans  Pouce  immediately  betook  himself  to 
the  public  road,  lighted  his  lantern,  and  marched  along 
the  middle  of  the  road,  talking  aloud  to  himself,  as 
people  often  do  when  they  are  alone  and  feel  nervous. 
If  a  patrol  or  keeper  happened  to  hear  the  gun 
fired,  and  ran  to  the  place,  he  never  guessed  that  the 
peasant  whom  he  met  coming  from  the  direction  of 
the  shot,  talking  noisily,  and  carrying  a  lighted 
lantern,  could  be  the  poacher  of  whom  he  was  in 
search  ;  he  was  therefore  certain  to  ask  Sans  Pouce 
for  information.  Sans  Pouce  never  failed  to  retort 
that  he  had  seen  the  men  who  fired  the  shot  running 
away  in  the  opposite  direction  to  that  which  he  was 
following  himself.  The  keeper  at  once  set  off  in  the 
wrong  direction  in  search  of  the  imaginary  offenders. 
As  soon  as  he  saw  his  enemy  out  of  the  way,  Sans 
Pouce  used  to  slip  back  into  the  forest,  pick  up  his 
gun  and  bird,  and  start  in  quest  of  a  second  quarry. 
He  was  not  particularly  greedy,  and  seldom  troubled 
to  kill  more  than  a  brace  of  birds  in  an  evening. 
'  It  was  this  moderation,'  as  his  biographer  naively 


94    NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


observes,  which  rendered  it  so  difficult  for  the  authori- 
ties to  catch  him. 

However,  Fortune  is  notoriously  fickle,  and  she  did 
not  always  smile  upon  Sans  Pouce.  For  example,  it 
happened  on  a  certain  winter's  day  that  the  keepers 
noticed  the  track  of  a  man's  shoes  in  the  half-frozen 
snow  of  the  forest.  They  followed  these  imprints  until 
they  came  to  a  thick  holly  tree.  Here  their  keen 
eyes,  trained  in  woodcraft,  saw  that  the  dead  leaves 
which  covered  the  ground  had  been  moved  and 
heaped  together,  with  the  view  of  concealing  some 
object  which  had  been  slipped  beneath  the  bush  ;  as 
soon  as  they  closely  scrutinised  the  pile  of  leaves,  they 
recognised  the  butt-end  of  a  gun.  The  keepers, 
being  anxious  to  catch  the  knave  to  whom  the  gun 
belonged,  proceeded  to  hide  among  the  holly  bushes 
which  stood  around.  There  they  remained  immovable 
for  many  hours,  when  they  sought  the  assistance  of 
their  mates.  A  watch  was  subsequently  maintained  for 
two  whole  days.  At  last,  on  the  third  night,  Sans  Pouce 
himself  arrived  upon  the  scene,  intending,  of  course, 
to  recover  his  gun.  But  hardly  had  he  knelt  down  to 
pull  the  weapon  out  of  the  brushwood,  when  the  three 
keepers  threw  themselves  upon  him,  and  he  was 
obliged  to  surrender. 

'  Comet '  is  or  was  the  slang  phrase  by  which  a 


POACHING  IN  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY    95 


French  poacher  designates  a  pheasant,  and  with  Sans 
Pouce,  of  course,  this  expression  was  current  coin.  On 
one  occasion  he  engaged  two  assistants  to  join  him  in 
levying  toll  upon  a  certain  well-stocked  cover,  in  the 
supposed  absence  of  the  keepers.  The  keepers,  how- 
ever, stopped  at  home,  and  captured  the  raiders  red- 
handed.  The  case  went  to  court.  The  poachers 
were  sentenced  to  pay  a  hundred  francs  apiece  as 
fines,  a  second  hundred  francs  as  damages,  and  to 
forfeit  their  guns.  When  Sans  Pouce  quitted  the 
Court-house  he  remarked  aloud,  so  that  all  might 
hear,  that  this  little  misadventure  would  cost  him 
another  eighty  '  comets '  to  repair. 

Here  I  may  remark  that  if  keepers  are  really  intel- 
ligent, and  accustom  themselves  to  track  out  birds 
and  beasts  by  the  impressions  which  their  feet  have 
left  in  damp  or  loose  soil,  they  can  often  ascertain 
the  movements  of  a  poacher  by  the  casts  of  his 
boots. 

An  associate  of  Sans  Pouce  came  to  grief  in  this 
way.  In  order  to  reduce  the  risk  of  discovery  to  a 
minimum  degree,  the  Frenchman  mounted  a  pair  of 
shoes  upon  two  pieces  of  wood.  Supporting  himself 
on  these  extemporised  stilts,  the  rascal  visited  all 
the  best  stocked  coverts  of  the  neighbourhood  with 
impunity.  The  keepers,  seeing  nothing  upon  the 


96    NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

ground  except  the  ruts  made  by  the  rude  stilts,  lived 
for  a  long  time  without  any  suspicion,  never  guessing 
that  a  poacher  was  daily  thinning  out  the  number  of 
their  birds.  The  fellow  carried  on  his  malpractices 
for  a  long  time  with  complete  success.  At  last  there 
came  a  day  when  the  keepers  paid  a  surprise  visit  to 
his  house,  in  search  of  some  wood  which  had  been 
purloined.  As  luck  would  have  it,  they  stumbled 
across  his  stilts,  and  the  secret  leaked  out. 

This  very  individual  sometimes  dared  to  poach  in 
the  forest  in  broad  daylight,  almost  under  the  eyes  of 
the  keepers.  Like  Peace,  the  English  burglar,  this 
cunning  Frenchman  was  an  adept  in  the  art  of 
'  making  up,'  and  could  disguise  himself  by  painting 
in  imaginary  wrinkles  with  such  skill  and  deftness  that 
no  one  could  take  him  for  anybody  but  an  old  beggar 
woman.  He  never  appeared  to  the  public  to  be 
doing  anything  but  collecting  sticks  ;  all  the  same,  he 
took  care  to  carry  a  small  fowling-piece  underneath 
his  petticoat.  It  fared  ill  with  any  game  that  he  came 
across  ;  but  he  was  too  adroit  to  be  caught  flagrante 
delicto.  If  a  keeper  heard  a  shot  in  the  forest,  and 
ran  up  to  the  spot,  he  found  nobody  to  apprehend  ; 
only,  at  the  end  of  the  nearest  cross-road,  he  might 
meet  an  old  crone,  carrying  a  bundle  of  fagots  or  of 
dead  heather.  '  Please  give  a  trifle  to  poor  Gertrude,' 


POACHING  IN  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY    97 

she  would  whine  in  a  sorrowful  tone  ;  it  often  hap- 
pened that  a  keeper,  being  completely  taken  in,  would 
divide  his  lunch  with  the  old  lady,  or  would  fumble 
in  his  pocket  for  a  few  loose  coins,  little  reckoning 
that  he  bestowed  these  acts  of  charity  upon  the  thief 
who  was  stealing  his  game. 

By  the  way,  an  English  poacher  whom  I  sounded 
upon  this  subject,  confessed  to  me  that  he  was  in  the 
habit  of  aiming  at  the  head  of  the  pheasant  which  he 
had  marked  at  roost.  The  reason  for  this  is  obvious. 
The  quill  feathers  of  the  wing  are  dense,  and  repel 
stray  shots  :  while  if  the  bird  is  only  pricked  in  the 
body,  it  flies  away,  to  pass  the  night  skulking  for- 
lornly in  the  shelter  of  some  ditch  or  beneath  a 
hedgerow.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  bird  is  missed, 
it  is  sure  to  be  too  scared  to  perch  in  a  tree  a  second 
time  during  a  single  evening  ;  so  that  the  poacher,  to 
be  successful  in  his  ill-doing,  must  mark  his  bird  right 
carefully,  for  if  he  makes  a  mistake  he  will  not 
repair  it  afterwards. 

Most  of  the  poachers  who  have  given  me  their 
confidences  upon  this  subject  believed  firmly  that 
pheasants  could  be  obtained  by  'smoking' — i.e.  by 
being  overpowered  by  the  fumes  of  burning  sulphur. 
Good  old  Squire  Waterton  discredited  this  method. 
'  I  consider,'  he  says,  '  the  smoking  of  pheasants  while 

H 


98     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

they  are  roosting  in  the  tree  as  a  mere  idle  story.  I 
myself  ought  to  be  a  pretty  good  hand  at  poaching  ; 
still,  I  am  obliged  to  confess  that  I  have  never  been 
successful  in  one  single  instance  in  the  many  attempts 
I  have  made  to  bring  down  the  pheasant  from  his 
roost  by  the  application  of  a  smoking  apparatus.  In- 
deed, when  we  reflect  that  the  mouth  of  the  bird  is 
always  shut  during  sleep,  and  that  both  it  and  the 
nostrils  are  buried  in  the  dorsal  feathers,  we  are  at  a 
loss  to  conceive  how  the  smoke  can  enter  them  and 
cause  the  bird  to  fall  in  stupefaction.  If  smoking 
were  a  successful  method,  depend  upon  it  the  poachers 
would  never  be  such  noodles  as  to  use  a  gun,  the 
report  of  which  is  sure  to  bring  an  attentive  keeper 
up  to  the  scene  of  their  night's  diversion.1 

I  cannot  say  for  myself  that  I  ever  emulated  the 
example  of  Squire  Waterton  in  trying  to  '  smoke ' 
pheasants,  but  it  is  always  interesting  to  study  the 
habits  and  customs  of  our  fellow-countrymen.  In  the 
pursuit  of  knowledge  I  have  interviewed  a  good  many 
scoundrels,  as  well  as  many  virtuous  individuals,  and 
I  am  bound  to  admit  that  the  balance  of  evidence  at 
my  disposal  points  to  the  '  smoking  '  of  a  pheasant  as 
a  feat  within  the  reach  of  the  skill  of  '  professional 
gentlemen.'  What  the  poachers  have  told  me  amounts 
1  Loudon's  Magazine  of  Natural  History,  vi.  310. 


POACHING  IN  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY    99 


to  this— that  they  occasionally  smoke  pheasants,  but 
more  as  a  lark  than  as  a  remunerative  piece  of  busi- 
ness. The  apparatus  required  is  nothing  more  than  a 
long  bamboo,  an  empty  tin,  such  as  is  used  to  hold 
condensed  milk,  and  a  little  sulphur.  The  latter  is 
placed  in  the  tin,  which  hangs  on  a  nail  at  the  end  of 
the  bamboo.  Several  lengths  of  bamboo,  which  fit 
together,  are  more  easily  carried  than  one  long  stick. 
A  dark  and  quiet  night  is  indispensable  to  the  success- 
ful '  smoking '  of  pheasants.  If  there  be  any  wind, 
the  sulphur  fumes  would  be  blown  away  from  the  bird. 
An  experienced  practitioner  is  generally  told  off  to 
work  the  sulphur  box,  which  must  not  be  held  too  near 
the  pheasant,  for  fear  the  unwonted  warmth  should 
disturb  the  bird.  If  adroitly  handled,  the  fumes  of 
the  burning  sulphur  '  stove1  or  suffocate  the  victim  for 
the  nonce,  and  it  drops  to  the  ground  choking. 

Cock  pheasants  are  said  to  be  more  wary  at  their 
roost  than  their  female  companions.  Perhaps  the 
latter  rely  intuitively  upon  the  watchfulness  of  the 
male  birds. 

Professor  Giglioli  tells  me  that  poachers  in  the 
north  of  Italy  sometimes  kill  roosting  pheasants  with 
a  blowtube.  I  have  no  experience  of  such  weapons, 
but  no  doubt  they  would  be  very  destructive  if  skilfully 
employed. 

H  2 


ioo    NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

But  night  poaching  is  not  the  most  vexatious  form 
of  stealing  game,  and  even  if  it  were,  measures  can  be 
taken  to  reduce  it  to  a  minimum.  The  game  pre- 
server usually  suffers  most  from  bad  neighbours.  Per- 
haps a  small  farmer  has  a  strip  of  land  surrounded  by 
well-stocked  coverts.  If  he  is  a  man  of  small  scruples, 
he  may  help  himself  to  the  squire's  pheasants  without 
incurring  serious  risk.  Amateur  poachers  of  this  kind 
must  be  treated  with  and  bought  over  by  friendly 
overtures. 

There  is  a  good  story  of  a  French  sportsman, 
the  Prince  of  Conde,  which  will  illustrate  the  force  of 
this.  A  certain  citizen  of  Senlis  had  begged  that  the 
post  of  rate  collector  might  be  given  to  his  son,  but 
the  candidate  was  rejected.  He  sought  to  enlist  the 
influence  of  the  Prince,  but  received  a  peremptory 
refusal,  as  the  Prince  regarded  the  political  views  of 
the  family  with  disapprobation.  A  family  council  was 
held  by  the  relatives,  who  happened  to  possess  some 
properties  which  bordered  upon  the  preserves  of  the 
Prince.  All  the  lad's  relations  gave  him  legal  authority 
to  kill  game  on  their  land  with  gun,  dogs,  snares,  or 
in  any  other  way  that  he  could  devise.  Day  and  night 
the  young  man  shot  upon  the  confines  of  the  Prince's 
land.  As  soon  as  ever  a  head  of  game  left  that  domain 
its  fate  was  sealed.  One  day  a  brace  of  pheasants 


POACHING  IN  THE  NINETEENTH  CENTURY  101 

would  be  killed,  the  next  day^a  roe,  and  the  day 
after  a  half-grown  wild  boar  dropped  to  the  rejected 
candidate's  gun.  The  keepers  were  furious,  and  the 
sportsman  drove  them  to  despair  by  exaggerating  his 
slaughter.  Fresh  reports  reached  the  Prince  from  day 
to  day.  '  How  is  it,'  he  asked  his  favourite  keeper, 
'  that  you  do  not  find  some  means  of  freeing  me  from 
this  scoundrel  ? '  '  Alas  ! '  the  keeper  answered,  '  the 
fellow  always  stays  upon  his  own  ground,  and  we  can- 
not get  hold  of  him.  Only  yesterday  he  shot  three 
pheasants  before  my  face  ! ' 

A  stag  hunt  had  been  arranged  for  the  morning  of 
the  following  day.  The  hunters  assembled  and  were 
about  to  start,  when  a  keeper  arrived  to  report  that  the 
stag  which  they  had  hoped  to  course  had  been  shot 
by  the  poacher  above  named.  The  Prince  burst  into 
a  furious  rage,  and  drove  off  in  his  carriage  to  interview 
the  King  himself.  When  he  arrived  at  the  Tuileries,  his 
dress  disordered  and  his  manner  confused,  Charles  X. 
inquired  the  cause  of  his  disturbed  state.  He  at 
once  broke  out  into  a  tirade  against  poachers,  and  the 
sovereign  listened  with  sympathy  to  his  description  of 
the  murdered  stag.  Twenty  minutes  after,  the  Lord 
Chancellor  appeared  in  the  Tuileries,  obedient  to  a 
royal  mandate.  After  hearing  all  the  facts,  this  high 
functionary  decided  that  the  poacher  had  only  acted 


• 

102     NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

within  his  legal  rights.  '  Cannot  we  get  rid  of  him  in 
some  way  ? '  asked  the  Prince.  '  If  he  were  a  public 
official,  he  could  be  transferred  to  another  post,'  said 
the  Chancellor.  '  What  a  bright  idea  ! '  exclaimed  the 
Prince  ;  '  he  has  asked  for  a  post — give  him  one  as  far 
off  as  possible,  say,  in  the  Hautes- Pyrenees.  He  can 
kill  plenty  of  ibex  there.  Only  let  him  start  off  at 
once,  and  do  not  let  them  give  him  any  leave  of  ab- 
sence to  return  home.'  So  the  difficulty  was  solved 
in  a  manner  acceptable  to  both  parties.  The  Prince 
kept  his  game  in  peace  and  safety,  while  the  collector 
of  taxes  divided  his  time  between  the  duties  of  his 
new  post  and  the  more  exciting  pleasures  of  tracking 
ibex  on  the  high  snowfields. 


SHOOTING    THE    PHEASANT 

BY 

A.  J.  STUART-WORTLEY 


CHAPTER  I 

PRINCE   AND    PEASANT,    PEER    AND    PHEASANT 

No  ;  he  has  not  the  poetry  of  the  partridge,  nor  the 
romance  of  the  grouse.  He  is  a  fowl,  a  barn-door 
fowl  ! — a  tame  polygamous  foreign  bird,  that,  like  the 
Cochin-China  or  the  Guinea,  can  be  tended  by  an  old 
woman  or  caught  by  a  boy.  Those  who  shoot  him 
perform  no  feat ;  they  are  not  sportsmen — only  speci- 
mens of  the  decadent  aristocracy  or  inflated  pluto- 
cracy of  England  ;  the  'battue'  is  a  foreign  horror, 
the  shooter  no  longer  an  English  gentleman,  but  a 
Parisian  '  gommeux.'  The  bird,  if  he  can  fly  so  far 
as  to  deserve  the  name,  is  but  a  stranger  from  the 
southern  Palaearctic  region,  imported  like  the  rich 
stuffs  which  screen  the  entrance  to  my  lady's  boudoir, 
to  add  another  false  note  to  the  discord  of  modern 
civilisation  ;  fatted  on  the  products  of  the  honest 
farmer's  toil  to  swell  the  banquet  of  a  prince  or 
grace  the  orgie  of  an  Anonyma. 

Here  is  no  sound  food,  like  chicory  or  margarine, 


io6  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

for  the  sovereign  people,  but  an  unnatural  outlet 
for  wasteful  wealth,  reared  on  the  savings  of  the  poor 
and  needy,  on  the  sweat  of  hardy  toilers,  for  whom 
the  gaol  for  ever  yawns  if  haply  they  should  touch  a 
feather  of  this  precious  bird,  luxury  sacred  to  the 
lord  and  the  landgrabber. 

Away  with  the  degenerate  class  of  humanity 
which  delights  to  nurture  this  exotic,  unnecessary 
creature,  and  having  done  so,  to  let  loose  all  the 
predatory  and  bloodthirsty  instincts  of  savage  man, 
and  butcher  it  wholesale  !  Away  with  this  dainty  ; 
let  us  have  food,  money,  and  land  for  the  people, 
and  be  rid  of  the  idle  vicious  class  who,  living  in  their 
sybarite  fashion  on  the  rack-rented  peasantry,  con- 
sume ill-gotten  wealth  in  such  debasing  pursuits  as 
fox  hunting  and  pheasant  shooting  ! 

But  stay — this  will  not  quite  do  ;  let  us  look  at 
the  pheasant  from  some  other  points  of  view.  He  is 
more  English  than  you  think,  nay,  than  most  of  us, 
for  was  he  not  brought  over  by  the  Romans,  who 
saw  in  the  forests  of  old  Britain  a  new  home  for  the 
Asiatic  bird,  which  must  be  served  for  the  feasts  of 
Lollius  and  Caractacus,  or  even  of  Caesar  himself? 
You  have  not  seen  him,  as  I  have,  roaming  at  his  wild 
will  over  the  heaths  of  Norfolk,  or  in  the  wooded 
glens  of  Scotland,  in  the  hop  gardens  of  Kent,  or  the 


PRINCE  &  PEASANT,  PEER  &>  PHEASANT    107 

sheltering  coombs  of  Devon,  or  you  would  not  call 
him  foreign. 

Look  through  the  white  fog  at  that  object  on  the 
stubble  near  the  fence,  sad  coloured  and  dark,  it 
seems  just  like  a  large  clod  of  British  earth  ;  but,  lo  ! 
a  golden  gleam  bursts  through  the  cold  haze,  and  as 
we  clatter  past  on  the  iron-bound  road,  blowing  on 
our  fingers,  and  huddled  in  our  coat  collars,  we  see 
the  dark  object  turn,  and  raise  to  the  winter  sun  the 
glittering  emerald  neck,  the  burnished  collar  and 
jewelled  breast  of  the  most  brilliant  of  British  birds, 
the  lordly  cock  pheasant,  strutting  proudly,  with  his 
strong  feet,  inch-long  spurs,  and  tapering  tail,  to 
find  his  varied  breakfast. 

See  him  again,  under  the  giant  oaks,  amid  the 
strewn  dead  leaves,  recalling  the  sheen  of  gilt  or 
copper  vessels  among  the  rusty  red  of  Indian  stuffs ; 
or  picking  his  way  daintily  and  fearlessly  among  the 
traceries  of  the  frozen  parterre,  perhaps  even  on  the 
terrace  under  the  great  windows,  where  he  shines  a 
resplendent  note  of  colour,  as  it  were  a  Sevres  or 
Dresden  china  vase  in  a  stone  hall. 

Again,  look  where,  his  short  strong  wings  expanded 
on  the  bosom  of  a  rushing  northerly  blast,  he  sails 
high  above  the  oak  and  larch  to  where  the  bitterness 
of  death  possibly  awaits  him  in  the  valley.  But  no, 


io8  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

he  is  too  good  for  you,  my  lords  and  gentlemen,  and 
not  one  of  the  six  barrels  belched  forth  at  him  from 
three  experienced  gunners  can  touch  him  in  his  lordly 
flight  over  his  ancestral  domain. 

Once  more  see  him,  as  he  breaks  from  a  huge 
hedgerow,  along  which  he  has  kept  man  and  dog 
racing  for  three  hundred  yards,  rise  like  a  firework 
in  the  October  sun,  make  off  secure  across  the  marsh 
to  the  opposite  belt,  and  there  run  so  far  and  fast  in 
its  trackless  recesses  that  you  may  never  trace  or  find 
him. 

Observe  him  again  in  his  death ;  see  the  burnished 
plumage,  ruffled  in  the  grimy  hand  of  a  London  car- 
man, brilliant  against  the  damp  blackness  of  a  Novem- 
ber night,  '  carriage  paid '  from  the  country  station  to 
the  stuffy  little  suburban  home. 

Again  look  where,  just  before  Christmas,  the  crowd 
presses  and  jostles  along  the  great  alleys  and  narrow 
ways  of  Leadenhall  Market,  staring  at  the  heca- 
tombs of  game  and  fowl  of  all  kinds,  stumbling 
over  pheasants  in  hampers,  pheasants  in  boxes, 
pheasants  and  all  other  game  on  the  ground  amongst 
the  sand  and  straw  and  feathers,  pheasants  in  long 
endless  rows  on  hooks,  their  gilded  breasts  glittering 
under  the  electric  light,  the  long  array  of  tails  waving 
and  shivering  in  the  chill  east  wind.  See  the  bustle 


PRINCE  &  PEASANT,  PEEK  &>  PHEASANT    109 


and  the  trade  ;  the  great  carts  outside  disgorging  their 
loads  of  game  from  Northern  and  Eastern  and  Western 
Railways,  other  vans  filling  up  with  large  boxes  and 
crates  for  Southern  lines,  for  Paris,  Monte  Carlo,  or 
Rome.  And  mark  the  price — three  or  four  shillings 
for  the  bonny,  delicate  bird  that  has  cost  the  much- 
abused  country  landlord  ten  or  more.  How  can  a  man 
be  reviled  by  any  political  economist  for  placing  an 
article  of  food  upon  the  market  at  one-third  of  what 
it  has  cost  him  to  produce  ? 

Look  in  another  direction.  See  the  village  inn, 
the  village  shop,  and  the  cottage  hearth,  and  listen  to 
the  jubilation  over  the  hard  money  and  good  cheer 
that  close  the  big  week's  shooting  at  the  Hall.  What 
joyous  little  streams  of  extra  wealth  have  flowed  from 
its  generous  portals  to  the  surrounding  homesteads  ; 
and  would  they  ever  flow  if  it  were  not  for  the  famous 
high  pheasants  in  the  valley,  below  the  great  clumps 
and  belts  that  shelter  the  pasturage  of  the  park,  or 
the  crops  on  the  uplands?  Ask  at  the  post  office, 
the  county  bank,  the  market  town,  and  the  railway 
station. 

But  I  have  not  done  yet.  Turn  your  eyes  to 
Birmingham,  and  see  the  busy  hands  at  work  upon 
stocks,  locks  and  barrels,  rods,  loading  machines  and 
extractors  ;  to  the  brilliant  workshops  of  St.  James's  or 


SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


Bond  Street,  where  the  skilled  artisan  at  the  bench 
perfects  the  polished  barrel,  or  files  to  the  nicety  of  a 
thousandth  part  of  an  inch  the  grooves  and  slots  of 
the  cunning  breech  ;  where  hard  by,  in  other  crowded 
rooms,  cartridges  by  the  million  are  stowed  in  boxes 
by  the  thousand,  while  outside  carmen  and  porters 
struggle  under  their  weight  to  load  and  unload  vans — 
the  railway  vans,  that  they  may  reach  the  country  in 
good  time.  See  the  tall  shot  towers  by  the  Thames, 
where  the  molten  lead  ceaselessly  drops  at  varying 
heights  into  the  water,  and  the  stout  canvas  bags, 
marked  from  '  Dust '  to  S.S.G.,  are  for  ever  being  sewn 
up,  stored,  and  sent  away. 

Think  of  the  great  powder  mills,  where  '  black ' 
and  '  diamond  grain,'  Schultze,  E.G.,  and  many  other 
nitro-compounds  are  ever  employing  the  heavy  hand 
of  labour  and  the  brains  of  science  and  chemistry;  of 
the  huge  factories  of  Eley,  with  their  many  thousand 
pounds'  worth  of  unrivalled  machinery  and  plant ; 
where  millions  upon  millions  of  green  and  blue,  gas- 
tight  and  brass  cartridges  are  turned  out  faultless 
every  year,  and  where  wages  and  employment  never 
fail.  Again,  think  of  the  packing-case  makers,  paper- 
makers  and  workers  in  leather,  canvas,  waterproof 
and  metals,  who  toil  in  the  East-end  of  London  or  the 
factories  of  many  another  busy  town.  Think  of  the 


PRINCE  &>  PEASANT,  PEEK  &  PHEASANT    1 1 1 

corn  exchanges  of  Mark  Lane,  of  the  hay,  grain,  and 
poultry  markets  of  the  provincial  borough.  Think,  in 
short,  of  all  the  money,  English  and  foreign,  which 
filters  its  sure  way  through  the  devious  channels  of  trade 
to  the  pockets  of  the  labourer  in  the  village  or  the 
artisan  in  the  town.  And  though  you  cannot  say 
that  the  pheasant  alone  is  responsible  for  all  this 
for  he  shares  it  with  partridge  and  grouse,  hare 
and  rabbit,  deer  and  wildfowl,  yet,  since  he  roosts 
in  his  thousands  nearest  our  homes,  since  he  is 
bred  and  nurtured,  brought  to  the  gun,  the  larder, 
the  market,  and  the  table  in  greater  profusion  and 
in  fairer  style  in  this  country  than  in  any  other, 
has  he  no  right,  foreigner  and  barn-door  fowl  though 
he  may  be  called,  to  claim  some  share  of  the  in- 
dustry and  commerce,  the  solid  gains  and  pros- 
perous exchanges,  which  follow  in  the  train  of  the 
British  love  of  shooting  and  all  other  field  sports  ? 

But  you  and  I  see  even  more  than  all  these 
things,  you  and  I  who  have  travelled  together,  in 
wondrous  luxury  or  unadulterated  discomfort,  over 
the  varied  surface  of  this  exiguous  planet,  this  plen- 
teous mother  earth.  You  and  I,  born  and  nurtured 
under  the  fog-borne  chime  of  Big  Ben,  or  the  shriller, 
sweeter  stroke  of  the  old  stable  clock  in  a  country 
manor-house,  but  who  have  seen  together  the  dust  of 


112  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


Calcutta  and  the  glitter  of  Cairo,  the  veneer  of 
Boston  and  the  natural  graces  of  Tahiti,  the  sweat  of 
the  diggers  in  Ballarat  or  of  the  Kaffirs  in  the  South 
African  Rand ;  who  have,  on  our  return  journey, 
once  more  sipped  our  coffee  and  savoured  our  un- 
earned luxuries  under  the  shadow  of  the  Coliseum, 
or  over  the  reflected  glories  of  the  Grand  Canal  ; 
who  have  clapped  our  hands  in  applause  where  the 
electric  gleams  illumine  the  snows  of  Petersburg,  or 
the  gas-glare  tinges  with  midnight  gold  the  verdure 
and  bloom  of  the  Champs-Elysees'  chestnuts — what 
do  we  come  back  to  ? 

We  have  seen  the  setting  sun  gild  the  fretted 
marble  of  the  Taj  Mahal,  or  the  simple  pillars  of  the 
Parthenon  ;  light  with  rose  beams  the  rugged  snowy 
outline  of  the  Rockies,  or  flash  with  prismatic  glory 
from  the  great  chandeliers  of  the  Salle  des  Glaces  ; 
we  have  travelled  and  seen  the  world  from  China  to 
Peru,  and  yet — where  and  how  do  we  wish  to  live  ? 
In  an  English  country  home  ! 

As  the  pheasant  picks  his  dainty,  graceful  way 
across  the  well-kept  garden,  we  count  him  not  the 
least  picturesque  and  appropriate  incident  in  the  lovely 
scene  ;  as  we  should  glance  at  the  jewel  pattern  in  the 
gallery  of  Hatfield,  the  tapestries  on  the  walls  of 
Blenheim,  the  cunningly  carved  friezes  of  Chatsworth. 


PRINCE  &>  PEASANT,  PEER  &>  PHEASANT    113 

There,  as  he  shines  in  the  sun,  and  picks  the  forgotten 
sunflower  seed  from  the  upturned  earth,  or  scratches 
the  acorn  from  the  russet  leaf-carpet,  he  seems  no 
stranger,  he  is  no  exotic.  He  is  a  part  and  parcel  of 
the  greatest  and  most  refined  prize  the  earth  affords — 
the  possession  of  an  English  estate.  The  lapse  of 
centuries,  since  the  Roman  legions  camped  on  the 
slopes  of  Wimbledon  or  the  wolds  of  York,  have  not 
dulled  the  wild  blood  which  he  brought  with  him 
from  the  Mongolian  forests,  nor  dispossessed  him  from 
the  glades  and  dells,  the  heaths  and  uplands  of  Merry 
England  which  he  has  made  his  own. 

Must  all  this  go  ?  For,  surely,  if  the  pheasant 
goes,  if  an  English  sport  or  pastime  disappears,  so 
dear,  so  much  more  vital  than  the  superficial  critic 
thinks  to  the  existence  of  the  country  gentleman,  and 
to  the  prosperity  of  his  dependants,  then  must  the 
great  estates  go  also  :  the  lordly  parks  and  castles,  the 
generous  hospitality,  the  wide  charity,  the  benevolent 
despotism  which  lightens  the  burdens,  while  it  never 
curbs  the  liberty,  of  the  denizens  of  so  many  peaceful 
villages  in  England  ;  the  enterprise,  commerce  and 
instruction,  the  protection,  justice  and  standard  of 
life,  which  should,  and  mostly  do,  radiate  from  a  great 
English  country  house — then  must  all  these  things  go 
also.  Where  depopulation  and  waste  lands  do  not 

i 


1 14  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


follow,  will  be  larger  towns  ;  larger  centres,  that  is,  of 
misery,  of  artificial  and  stunted  life,  or  great  areas  of 
semi-detached  villas  and  small  grasping  trade,  in 
which  the  suburban  spirit  will  leave  to  a  -handful 
of  hardworked  parsons  and  eccentric  philanthropists 
the  task  of  looking  after  the  poverty  it  has  itself 
engendered,  but  which  is  greater  and  deeper  than  its 
own  fancied  importance  and  prosperity. 

You  will  perchance  ask,  what  has  the  pheasant,  in 
his  own  person  as  a  bird,  to  do  with  all  this  ?  There 
will,  you  may  say,  always  be  wild  heaths  or  scraps  of 
forest,  where  the  true  sportsman,  the  hardy  hunter,  may 
pursue  that  which  is  wild  ;  and  is  he  not  a  better  man 
than  the  luxurious  shooter  of  hand-reared  pheasants  ? 

True  ;  but  how  long  would  it  be  before  these  heaths 
and  wastes  would  be  bare  ;  bare  to  the  naturalist  and 
the  sportsman  as  Clapham  Common  or  Hyde  Park  ? 
The  pheasant  would  disappear  almost  the  first,  before 
the  partridge  or  the  snipe,  even  as  the  hare  is  exter- 
minated before  the  rabbit.  So  fine  a  bird,  heavy  and 
valuable,  easy  to  see  and  circumvent,  is  always  the 
greatest  prize  to  the  greedy  pothunter  or  poacher,  and 
would  not  long  survive.  And  why  should  the  woods 
and  copses,  the  heaths  and  brakes  be  barren  of  this 
gorgeous  bird  life,  this  natural  and  picturesque  product 
of  their  wealth  ? 


PRINCE  <S-  PEASANT,  PEER  &•  PHEASANT    115 


The  persons  who,  because  they  are  unable  or 
unwilling  to  take  part  in  it,  are  never  weary  of  reite- 
rating that  pheasant  shooting  is  not  sport,  and  there- 
fore a  cruel  and  effeminate  pursuit,  are  right  in  a  sense 
that  they  do  not  themselves  intend  to  convey,  and 
entirely  wrong  in  the  conclusion  they  draw. 

Pheasant  shooting  is  not  sport ;  that  is,  it  is  not, 
under  modern  conditions,  a  contest  between  man  and 
a  wild  animal  difficult  to  find,  circumvent  and  secure. 
But  it  is  a  very  excellent  pastime,  and  one  which, 
conducted  without  cruelty,  the  possessor  of  land  and 
money  has  a  right  to  enjoy  if  he  pleases,  the  inviolate 
right  of  a  British  subject  to  do  what  he  likes  with  his 
own,  so  long  as  in  so  doing  he  does  not  break  the  law 
or  inflict  injury  on  others. 

True,  it  is  hardly  accessible  to  the  poor  man  ;  yet 
the  majority  of  poor  men  are  the  better  for  its  exis- 
tence, as  I  have  tried  to  show.  Deep  and  loud  would 
be  the  curses  from  many  a  humble  home  in  town  and 
country  were  this  so-called  debasing  sport,  which  is 
in  reality  an  important  industry,  abolished  by  that 
enemy  of  mankind,  the  self-seeking,  vainglorious, 
insincere,  ignorant  person  known  nowadays  as  a 
'  faddist.' 

We  who  enjoy  it  do  not  dream  of  calling  ourselves 
'sportsmen'  because  we  take  part  in  a  few  weeks' 

12 


u6  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


pheasant  shooting.  Perhaps  we  do  not  hanker  after 
the  term  so  much  as  is  supposed,  since  we  are  com- 
pelled to  share  it  with  every  member  of  the  Fleet  Street 
betting  clubs  or  of  the  professional  ring.  Yet  we 
know  that  most  of  the  men  who  have  proved  their 
right  to  the  title  all  over  the  world,  in  the  jungles  of 
India  or  the  ice-bound  plains  of  the  Pamirs,  the 
deserts  of  Africa  or  the  prairies  of  the  Far  West,  on 
the  mountains,  seas  and  rivers  of  both  hemispheres, 
are  keen  enough  to  join  in  well-managed  pheasant 
shooting  ;  and  we  claim  the  right  to  enjoy  it,  bringing 
thereto  the  British  qualities  of  courtesy  and  fair  play  ; 
while,  without  laying  claim  to  the  powers  of  a  Hawker 
or  a  Selous,  we  take  our  part  in  this  well-ordered 
pursuit  in  the  invigorating  air  of  our  own  land,  doing 
no  injury,  but  some  benefit,  to  our  neighbours,  and 
not  really  meriting  abuse  from  those  who  constantly 
attack  others  for  their  own  ends. 

To  the  charge  of  cruelty  so  often  brought  against 
those  who  join  in  slaying  large  quantities  of  game 
it  is  more  worth  while  to  reply  than  to  the  self- 
constituted  arbiters  of  '  sport ; '  since  there  are  many 
right-thinking  persons  who,  not  understanding  the 
conditions,  ascribe  to  its  votaries  a  kind  of  bloodthirsty 
desire  to  cause  the  death  of  harmless  animals  with  a 
complete  indifference  to  their  sufferings.  It  does  not 


PRINCE  &>  PEASANT,  PEER  &•  PHEASANT    117 


occur  to  them,  and  unless  the  matter  be  explained 
there  is  no  reason  why  it  should,  that  the  shooter  is 
usually  a  humane  man,  and  that  outdoor  exercise,  the 
cultivation  of  health,  and  the  acquirement  of  skill,  have 
more  to  do  with  his  love  of  shooting  than  any  desire 
to  become  the  executioner  of  beast  or  bird  life.  Then, 
as  regards  the  pain  inflicted  on  the  birds,  it  should  be 
remembered  that  the  game  bird  is  accorded  a  very 
happy  lot  in  this  world.  His  birth,  rearing  and 
comfort  are  well  looked  after,  the  best  of  food  and 
water  provided  for  him,  while,  so  far  as  possible,  he  is 
protected  from  his  natural  enemies,  the  predatory  and 
carnivorous  birds,  beasts,  and  reptiles,  against  whom 
a  never-ceasing  war  is  waged  in  his  behalf.  Finally, 
he  has  at  most  but  one  or  two  short  days,  often  but 
one  or  two  moments,  of  anxiety,  terror,  or  fear  of  death, 
while  the  latter  is  mostly  inflicted  on  him  in  the  most 
instantaneous  and  painless  form.  Which  of  us,  say,  in 
middle  life,  can  assert  as  much  of  the  lives  of  our 
human  fellow-creatures  ?  I  think  altogether  a  pheasant 
on  a  well-preserved  estate  has  a  happier  existence  and 
easier  death  than  any  creature  I  know  of ;  and  though 
these  birds  are  thus  called  into  existence,  reared  and 
protected  solely  for  the  benefit  of  man,  yet  they  are 
not  conscious  of  this,  nor  of  the  fact  that  were  it  not 
for  man  they  would  never  have  existed. 


ii8  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


To  all  that  I  have  said  it  may  be  urged  that  there 
is  no  attack  at  present  upon  field  sports,  and  that  I 
may  be  beating  the  air  in  thus  putting  forth  a  defence. 
But  let  us  be  warned  in  time.  An  organised  attack 
is  being  prepared  and  has  already  begun  upon  every 
recreation  and  amusement  which  is  beyond  the  reach 
of  the  more  struggling  and  less  fortunate  mass  of 
humanity.  The  cry  is  being  used,  despite  the  fact  that 
all  these  things  are  good  for  trade,  and  that  poverty 
would  be  deeper  and  more  widespread  in  their  ab- 
sence, to  foster  the  discontent  that  can  so  easily  be 
excited  among  those  who  are  less  prosperous  than 
their  fellows. 

If  steadily  resisted  by  those  whose  knowledge 
and  experience  of  British  sports  enables  them  to  state 
the  simple  truth,  this  attack  is  doomed  to  failure  in  the 
end,  and  it  may  once  more  be  shown  that  those  who 
pretend  to  find  a  panacea  for  the  hardships  of  the 
many  by  curtailing  the  enjoyments  of  the  few  are  as 
ignorant  as  they  are  spiteful  and  unscrupulous. 

I  was  lately  shooting  on  an  estate  where,  from  vicis- 
situdes of  ownership,  the  game  preservation  had  been 
sadly  let  down,  in  a  part  of  the  country  where  agricul- 
tural distress  has  been  specially  acute,  and  where  the 
soil,  though  poorfor  crops,  is  admirably  suited  for  timber 
and  game.  The  population  was  scanty  and  ill  cared  for ; 


PRINCE  £~  PEASANT,  PEER  &  PHEASANT    119 


everything  betokened  neglect  and  poverty,  where  a 
totallydiflerentconditionof  thingsshould  have  reigned. 
I  would  undertake  that  under  an  owner  with  liberal 
ideas  of  game  preserving  up  to  date,  seconded  by  an 
intelligent  keeper,  this  very  estate  should  command 
in  three  or  four  years'  time  a  higher  value  in  game 
than  it  has  produc'ed  during  this  century  in  agricul- 
ture. I  will  make  bold  to  say  that  a  man  who  rears 
pheasants  by  the  thousand  is  a  benefactor  to  the 
community  at  large,  far  more  so  than  the  pothouse 
agitator  who  abuses  him,  and  who  is  only  to  be 
finally  silenced  by  being  elected  to  a  seat  in  a 
Parliament  where  he  is  completely  outclassed. 

The  best  allies  to  the  cause  of  British  sports  and 
recreations,  and  of  game  preserving  in  particular,  are 
largely  those  of  whom  Britain  has  most  reason  to  be 
proud  ;  those  who  by  their  energy  and  industry  in 
various  walks  of  life  at  home  or  in  our  colonies  and 
foreign  lands  have,  while  raising  themselves,  contri- 
buted to  maintain  the  high  standard  which  marks  the 
progress  of  a  great  nation. 

The  man  who  wins  his  way  to  the  top  in  trade  or 
finance  at  home,  or  whose  name  commands  respect 
in  law  or  medicine,  art  or  mechanics,  no  less  than 
the  pioneer  of  mining,  exploration  or  military  glory 
all  over  the  world,  the  working  brain  which  develops 


120  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


the  great  railways,  and  the  famous  lines  of  ocean 
steamships,  or  maintains  the  thousand  industrial 
enterprises  over  which  the  Union  Jack  floats  by  land 
and  sea,  will  come  back,  for  the  goal  of  his  ambition, 
for  the  reward  of  his  toil,  to  a  home  of  his  own  in 
the  lovely  English  country. 

He  will  want,  let  us  hope,  for  many  a  long  year  to 
come,  all  the  familiar  sweets  and  accessories  of  opu- 
lent country  life.  As  he  stands  at  his  window,  with 
all  the  luxuries  of  modern  civilisation  under  his  roof, 
and  the  slanting  rays  of  the  winter  sun  lighting  the 
purple  tree  trunks  and  the  grey-green  pastures  of  the 
homelike  landscape  before  him,  he  will  spy  our  friend 
the  cock  pheasant,  gently  wandering  round  for  beech 
mast  and  acorns,  and  recognise  in  him  the  last  and 
not  the  least  expression  of  the  comfort  and  plenty 
which  is  the  reward  of  the  successful  man. 

He  will  tend  him  with  care,  shoot  him  with  the 
respect  due  to  his  ancestry  and  power  of  wing,  and  eat 
him  with  the  pride  of  possession  and  gratitude  for 
the  good  things  of  this  life. 


121 


CHAPTER   II 

HOW   TO   SHOW   PHEASANTS 

A  DELIGHTFUL  expression  is  attributed  to  a  head 
keeper  of  the  last  generation,  named  Flatman,  who 
was,  I  believe,  in  the  service  of  Lord  Sefton.  He  was 
placing  the  guns  for  a  great  rise  out  of  one  of  the 
well-stocked  coverts  of  Croxteth,  and  in  assigning  to  a 
gun  his  position,  outside  the  covert  and  on  the  flank, 
he  said,  '  Would  you  please  stay  here,  sir,  and  when 
the  trouble  begins,  be  good  enough  to  move  up  nearer 
to  the  other  guns.' 

Quaint  as  this  term  sounds,  it  is  marvellously 
expressive,  in  a  sense  not  intended  by  Flatman,  of  the 
difficulty  which  besets  and  usually  baffles  keepers 
in  showing  a  quantity  of  pheasants  in  the  proper 
manner.  There  are  plenty  of  keepers  in  England 
capable,  in  proportion  to  the  climate  and  soil  of  their 
particular  locality,  and  to  the  expenses  allowed  them 
by  their  employers,  of  rearing,  preserving,  and  pro- 
ducing a  large  stock  of  these  birds  ;  but  there  are 


SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


very  few  indeed  who  know  how  to  show  them  when 
they  have  been  produced.  There,  to  quote  Flatman, 
'  the  trouble  begins.'  Some  brilliant  examples  I 
have  seen,  whose  names,  though  I  prefer  not  to 
institute  unnecessary  comparisons  by  citing  them, 
will  occur  to  many  experienced  shooters.  Such  men, 
having  a  natural  gift  of  generalship  and  organisation, 
enter  absolutely  into  the  spirit  of  the  pursuit,  as 
viewed  by  the  practised  gunners  who  take  part  in  it ; 
and  are  perfectly  able,  without  referring  any  ques- 
tion of  management  to  their  employers,  to  carry 
out  the  heaviest  day's  covert  shooting  in  a  practical 
manner,  without  losing  sight  of  what  I  may  term  the 
sportsmanlike  or  picturesque  side  of  the  subject. 

The  choice  of  a  head  keeper  is  a  difficult  matter, 
and  is  too  often  decided  in  favour  of  the  man  with 
powerful  frame  and  large  voice.  These  are  useful, 
though  far  from  the  only  essentials  ;  and  I  have  long 
held  the  opinion  that,  for  many  important  reasons,  the 
position  of  a  head  gamekeeper  on  a  considerable  estate 
should  be  entrusted  only  to  men  of  a  higher  stamp 
of  education  and  ability  than  is  commonly  the  case. 

The  policy  which  should  guide  his  actions  with 
reference  to  delicate  questions  of  tenancy,  neighbour- 
hood and  labour  I  have  treated  in  another  chapter  ; 
but  the  management  of  covert  shooting  equally 


HOW   TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS  123 


demands  ability  of  a  higher  order  than  is  usually 
found  in  the  British  gamekeeper. 

However  able  the  generals,  the  commander-in- 
chief  —by  whom  I  mean  the  owner  of  the  shooting — 
should,  if  possible,  have  the  first  and  last  word  as  to 
how  he  wishes  his  pheasants  shown,  and  his  guns 
placed  to  kill  them.  Times  have  changed,  pheasants 
are  vastly  more  numerous  than  they  were,  and  shoot- 
ing has  improved.  The  natural  result  is  that  the 
average  shooter  cares  more  (far  more  if  he  be  above 
the  average)  how  the  birds  are  put  over  his  head,  than 
how  many  are  killed.  A  sufficient  quantity  he  ex- 
pects, and  in  these  days  feels  pretty  sure  of  seeing ; 
but  to  see  '  high  birds,'  and  to  be  properly  placed  to 
kill  them  if  he  can,  is  to  him  the  great  desideratum  in 
pheasant  shooting. 

The  great  principle,  advocated  over  and  over 
again  by  all  the  recognised  authorities  (vide  Badminton 
Library,  &c.),  is  to  utilise  the  running  powers  of  the 
bird  to  take  him  to  the  point,  whence  you  will  use  his 
flying  powers  to  bring  him  overhead,  if  possible,  back 
in  the  direction  of  his  home.  But,  like  many  other 
things  well  recommended  by  the  really  experienced 
judges,  this  principle  is  only  too  often  ignored,  and  it 
is  painfully  common  to  see  guns  placed  in  the  obsolete 
manner,  close  round  the  end  or  corner  of  a  covert  on 


I24  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


low  or  flat  ground,  with  a  bloodthirsty  keeper  pushing 
pheasants  out  into  the  faces  of  the  embarrassed 
shooters.  This  is  usually  done  in  deference  to  his 
ignorant  desire  that  a  heavy  bag  should  be  made  ; 
and,  in  modern  days  at  least,  usually  defeats  its  own 
object.  It  is  first  necessary  to  understand  that  more, 
not  fewer,  birds  will  be  killed  if  put  over  the  guns  at 
a  fair  distance  than  if  driven  past  them  at  a  close  one. 
Modern  shooters  have,  as  a  rule,  mastered  the  first 
principles  of  courtesy  and  safety,  and  it  is  only  the 
typical  foreign  count,  or  the  small  provincial  gunner, 
who  only  get  one  day's  covert  shooting  in  the  year,  who 
can  be  induced  to  maim,  slay,  and  smash  a  quantity  of 
slow  pheasants  at  close  quarters.  We  are  all  supposed 
to  do  it  —in  some  of  the  daily  papers  ;  as  a  matter  of 
fact  we  do  not,  and,  what  is  more,  we  do  not  intend 
to.  However  much  the  owner  or  keeper  may  desire  a 
large  total,  he  is  not  likely  to  get  it  in  this  way,  for  no 
practised  shot  worthy  of  the  name  will  even  shoot  at 
birds  flying  too  low  and  too  close. 

I  have  said  that  the  first  principle  is  to  push 
pheasants  on  their  feet  as  far  as  possible,  and  bring 
them  back  on  the  wing.  In  this  way  you  may  be 
sure  of  getting  them  to  fly  well  in  the  homeward 
direction,  and  can  therefore  intercept  them  as  you 
wish.  But,  whether  you  drive  them  from  home  or 


HO IV  TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS  125 


towards  it,  there  is  a  second  cardinal  principle  to  be 
observed  if  you  wish  them  to  pass  your  guns,  either 
at  the  fair  killing  distance,  or  at  a  sufficient  height  to 
make  the  performance  interesting,  and  test  the  skill 
of  your  best  shots.  This  is,  that  they  must  be  flushed 
at  a  certain  distance  from  the  guns.  In  no  case 
should  the  flushing  point  be  nearer  than  sixty  yards 
from  the  line  where  the  shooters  stand  ;  it  will  be 
immeasurably  better  if  it  is  well  over  a  hundred. 
Add  to  this  that  the  birds  should  generally,  where 
possible,  be  flushed  from  higher  ground  than  that  on 
which  the  guns  stand,  and  you  get  all  conditions 
necessary  for  the  result  desired. 

Lord  Walsingham  has  laid  down  all  these  prin- 
ciples in  the  Badminton  volume,  and  added  a  recom- 
mendation, in  which  I  entirely  agree,  of  the  system  of 
driving  the  birds  (away  from  home)  to  an  isolated 
covert  or  clump,  from  which  they  can  be  brought 
back  overhead  easily  and  surely.  To  such  clump  or 
covert  they  must  be  pushed  almost  entirely  on  their 
feet ;  but  the  system — for  which  I  think  we  are  all,  in 
the  first  instance,  indebted  to  Lord  Leicester,  who 
has  for  nearly  fifty  years  practised  it,  with  the  most 
scientific  and  picturesque  results,  at  Holkham — in- 
volves absolute  discipline  on  the  part  of  both  beaters 
and  shooters.  You  may  bring  pheasants,  as  they  do  at 


126  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


Holkham,  a  mile,  or  even  two,  through  continuous 
belts  or  covert,  and  push  them  out  of  an  open  end  to 
the  isolated  clump,  across  an  open  piece  of  ground. 
But  the  farther  they  get  from  home,  the  more  nervous 
they  become,  and  great  caution  is  necessary.  They 
are  more  and  more  inclined  to  turn  back  ;  and  should 
your  advancing  line  once  get  too  close  to  them,  they 
will  flush  in  a  body  and  come  back  all  together  over 
your  head,  leaving  you,  after  one  abortive  fusillade, 
with  nothing  to  do  but  to  beat  the  whole  covert  over 
again,  and  only  a  few  brace  of  birds  to  show. 

As  you  walk  on,  the  person  directing  the  opera- 
tion, be  he  host  or  keeper,  must  have  complete  and 
absolute  command  of  the  line,  and  should  he  see,  as 
he  readily  will  if  it  occurs,  that  the  line  of  men  is 
getting  too  close  to  the  birds  (which,  when  some 
distance  from  home,  will  be  running  somewhat  fitfully 
and  unwillingly  before  you),  he  must  call  a  general 
halt  to  give  them  time  to  run  on.  Following  the 
invariable  characteristic  of  their  nature  when  disturbed 
or  alarmed,  they  will  gradually  do  this,  and  you  may 
then  slowly  advance  again. 

Now,  when  you  get  near,  say,  a  hundred  and  fifty 
yards  from  the  end  of  the  covert — which  in  this  case 
should  be  completely  open,  with  no  fence  or  thicket 
if  possible — the  line  must  be  halted  absolutely,  and  a 


HOW  TO  SHOW  ^PHEASANTS  127 


general  noise,  shouting,  and  rattling  of  sticks  must  be 
kept  up. 

Gradually  the  older  birds,  cocks  first,  will  lead  the 
way  across  the  open  to  the  nearest  shelter,  that  being 
the  clump  or  spinney  into  which  you  wish  to  put  them, 
and  when  once  this  exodus  has  begun,  provided  that 
your  line  keeps  stationary,  you  are  safe  ;  the  mass  of 
pheasants  will  go  on,  even  over  obstacles,  such  as 
fences,  ditches,  or  broken  covert,  flying,  skimming, 
and  running,  until,  when  like  a  more  famous  general 
you  order  the  whole  line  to  advance,  every  bird  is 
safely  sheltered  in  the  detached  covert  in  front  of 
you. 

Previously  to  this,  to  follow  the  Holkham  plan  to 
the  letter,  a  wire  netting  should  have  been  placed,  in 
semicircular  form,  round  the  outside  of  the  clump. 
This  will  keep  the  birds  from  running  out  of  it  on 
the  far  side,  and  will  have  been  acting  as  a  stop  to 
the  hares,  should  you  be  lucky  enough  to  have  any, 
while  you  were  beating  up  the  covert. 

At  Holkham  no  one  is  allowed  to  shoot  a  phea- 
sant during  the  beat  towards  the  clump,  excepting  a 
cock  that  turns  back  over  the  line  ;  but  this,  of  course, 
would  render  the  advance  rather  monotonous  where 
there  were  no  woodcocks  or  ground-game.  The 
whole  of  this  historic  performance  takes  place  there 


128  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


within  the  limits  of  the  park,  which,  however,  as  it  is 
nearly  ten  miles  round,  inclosed  by  a  wall  and  a  ring 
or  belt  of  covert,  and  embraces  within  its  ample  in- 
closure  some  hundreds  of  acres  of  arable  land,  besides 
pasture,  with  many  detached  coverts  and  spinneys, 
affords  a  chance  for  this  method  of  beating  which 
might  be  considered  exceptional.  But  to  satisfy  him- 
self, and  to  show  others  that  the  management  of 
pheasants  on  this  principle  is  not  dependent  on  the 
inclosure  of  a  walled-in  park,  Lord  Leicester  on  one 
occasion,  instead  of  driving  his  birds  into  the  famous 
'  Scarborough '  clump,  put  them  all,  to  the  number  of 
1,500  or  i, 600,  over  the  wall,  into  an  osier  bed  outside 
the  park,  which  the  great  majority  of  the  pheasants 
could  never  have  seen  before. 

This  is  an  extraordinary  performance  •  but  the 
same  great  authority  is  wont  to  declare  that  he  could 
drive  his  pheasants  into  his  billiard-room  if  he  were 
so  minded,  and  that  so  long  as  you  guide  and  push 
them  gently,  without  springing  them,  you  can  do  what 
you  like  with  them. 

Of  course,  when  the  birds  are  once  all  housed  in 
the  clump,  a  few  stops  are  put  round  it  to  keep  them 
in,  and  the  party  can  then  eat  their  luncheon,  and 
afterwards  at  their  ease  take  their  stands  for  the  rise 
out  of  the  clump.  The  '  Scarborough  '  clump  is  only 


\HOW  TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS  129 


an  acre  or  so  in  extent,  but  it  will  hold  2,000  phea- 
sants, and  every  bird  will  come  back  in  the  direction 
from  which  he  was  driven,  some  rising  to  a  great 
height,  and  sorely  puzzling  the  back  row  of  guns, 
which  can  here  be  placed  in  three  lines. 

A  pheasant's  flight,  it  may  be  observed,  consists 
invariably  of  a  rise,  more  or  less  gradual,  to  a  certain 
zenith,  after  reaching  which  a  gradual  sailing  process, 
with  a  downward  tendency,  begins.  He  hardly  ever 
flies  along  a  level  course,  but  is  always  either  rising 
or  trending  downwards.  This  is  one  of  the  reasons 
that  makes  him  so  difficult  to  kill  properly,  except 
when  he  is  just  at  the  zenith. 

At  '  Scarborough  '  clump  the  pheasant's  zenith  is 
reached  when  over  the  first  or  second  line  of  guns, 
and  by  the  time  he  is  over  the  third  he  has  begun 
that  downward  sail  with  wings  extended  motionless 
which  is  universally  admitted,  when  pheasants  are 
high  overhead,  to  afford  one  of  the  most  difficult 
shots  one  can  have  to  deal  with.  Lord  Leicester  says 
he  has  never  seen  anyone  make  a  good  average  of 
kills  when  standing  in  the  back  row  at  '  Scarborough  ' 
clump,  and  I  can  well  believe  it. 

I  offer  no  apology  for  citing  and  describing  the 
method  of  beating  the  woods  and  placing  the  guns  at 
Holkham,  any  more  than  I  should,  were  I  writing  on 

K 


130  SHOOTING   THE  PHEASANT 


racing,  for  dwelling  upon  what  is  done  at  Newmarket. 
For  more  years,  probably,  than  could  be  counted  at 
any  other  place  in  England,  this  question  has  been 
studied  and  practised  to  perfection  on  this  the  king 
of  shooting  estates.  More  pheasants  have  been  killed 
in  a  day  at  other  places,  and,  though  only  once,  more 
partridges  ;  but  for  both  these  combined,  as  well  as 
for  ground-game,  wildfowl,  wood-pigeons,  woodcocks, 
or  any  other  kind  of  English  game  but  grouse,  the  large 
acreage,  climate,  soil,  and  management  of  Holkham 
have  for  years  placed  its  owner  in  the  position  of  being 
able,  if  so  minded,  to  equal  or  eclipse  all  other  records. 

It  will  at  once  be  remarked  that  most  places 
have  not  the  same  advantages,  and  that  what  answers 
in  a  locality  so  especially  favourable  to  game  in 
general,  and  this  method  of  beating  woods  in  par- 
ticular, would  not  be  equally  practicable  elsewhere. 
To  this  my  answer  would  be  that,  allowing  for  dif- 
ferent formation  of  coverts,  and  more  especially  con- 
sidering the  possibility  of  easily  altering  such  coverts 
so  as  to  suit  your  pheasant  shooting,  I  have  never  yet 
seen  a  place  where  the  main  principle  here  quoted 
would  not  hold  good,  or  where  something  like  the 
same  conditions  could  not  be  reproduced. 

If  you  have  no  detached  covert,  spinney,  or  clump 
outside  your  principal  wood,  it  is  usually  easy  to  plant 


HOW  TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS  131 

one  ;  and  though  you  will  not  by  this  means  get  the 
much-desired  lofty  trees  for  many  years,  yet  it  is  a 
well-ascertained  fact  that  pheasants  can  and  will  rise 
very  high  out  of  low  covert  to  fly  back  to  the  high 
wood,  provided  the  lie  of  the  ground  favours  the 
operation.  By  this  I  mean  that  the  short  covert  used 
to  flush  the  birds  from  must,  at  least,  not  lie  lower 
than  the  main  wood,  and  should,  if  possible,  be  slightly 
higher,  when  the  desired  result  can  be  assured. 

But  to  avoid  the  risk,  which  is  always  considerable 
when  you  are  driving  birds  away  from  home  for  any 
distance,  of  their  flushing  in  considerable  numbers 
and  turning  back  over  the  line,  it  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary to  preserve  the  distance  between  your  line  and 
the  pheasants  running  in  front  of  you  which  I  have 
described.  In  thick  covert  this  is  not  easy,  some  are 
sure  to  squat  and  flush  and  go  back  ;  but  by  giving 
time,  and  making  plenty  of  noise,  it  is  wonderful  how 
you  can  persuade  them  to  slink  and  run  away  forward, 
even  when  the  undergrowth  is  apparently  dense. 

To  favour  the  operation,  you  must  thin  out  the 
undergrowth  near  the  end  of  the  main  covert,  letting 
it  die  away,  so  to  speak,  at  the  edge  into  the  open. 
It  may  very  likely  not  be  possible  to  do  away  with  the 
fence  at  the  end,  but  so  long  as  this  has  plenty  of 
open  places  at  the  bottom  it  will  not  stop  the  phea- 

K  2 


1 32  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 

sants,  while  it  is  yet  strong  enough  to  keep  out  cattle 
or  sheep.  If  there  is  a  gate,  and  no  stock  in  the 
adjoining  field,  the  gate  should  be  left  standing  open 
long  before  you  begin  to  beat  the  covert,  and  the  birds 
will  readily  run  through  it. 

But,  above  all,  you  must  halt  the  line  and  give 
plenty  of  time  when  you  get  to  within  100  yards  of  the 
end,  and  keep  up  plenty  of  noise.  This  is  the  point 
most  often  neglected,  and  its  omission  accounts  for 
the  general  confusion  and  springing  of  the  birds  in 
every  direction,  as  well  as  for  the  objection  probably 
urged  by  your  keeper,  that  it  is  of  no  use  trying  to 
drive  the  pheasants  in  that  direction,  that  he  has  tried 
it  often,  and  they  never  will  go,  &c.  &c. 

Remember  that,  whatever  the  shape  of  your  covert, 
pheasants  can  be  driven  almost  anywhere  so  long  as 
they  are  kept  on  their  feet  ;  which,  reduced  to  a  few 
words,  means  that  you  must  not  get  so  near  them  as 
to  cause  them  to  squat  and  flush.  Lord  Leicester's 
dictum  about  driving  them  into  his  billiard-room  l  is 
perfectly  sound,  and  may  be  taken  as  the  basis  of  the 
system  on  which  you  should  proceed,  whether  your 
pheasants  be  many  or  few. 

We  will  suppose  that  you  have  successfully  accom- 

1  The  billiard -room  at  Holkham  is,  needless  to  say,  on  the 
ground  floor,  and  opens  on  to  the  garden  with  a  wide  door. 


HO W   TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS  133 

plished  the  manoeuvre  of  pushing  the  birds  out  at  the 
end  of  your  main  covert,  and  got  them  safely  into  the 
detached  covert  whence  you  wish  to  flush  them  ;  it 
now  remains  to  conclude  artistically,  and  while  show- 
ing good  sport  to  your  friends,  to  realise  the  fair  and 
right  proportion  of  the  pheasants  which  have  cost  you 
so  much  care,  expense  and  trouble  to  produce ;  to 
have  them  killed  and  not  butchered. 

We  will  assume  that  the  detached  covert  had 
already  some  birds  in  it,  and  that  it  has  been  well 
looked  after  since  the  morning,  the  outlying  fences 
driven  in,  stops  carefully  placed,  &:c.  You  now  place 
a  row  of  stops  on  the  hither  side  of  the  clump,  as  we 
will  call  it  to  distinguish  it  from  the  main  covert, 
about  fifteen  yards  apart  and  as  many  from  the  edge 
of  the  clump,  who  should  gently  tap  their  sticks. 
These  will  keep  the  birds  from  attempting  to  run  out 
again,  and  also  assist  to  make  them  rise  into  the  air 
when  flushed.  The  fence  surrounding  the  clump 
should  be  thick,  and  needless  to  say  the  undergrowth 
as  well,  so  that  the  birds  cannot  run  together  and  get 
into  crowds.  You  can  then,  by  sending  in  one,  two, 
or  even  three  judicious  men  to  put  them  up,  push  the 
pheasants  over  the  guns  in  small  numbers  at  a  time,  or 
even  singly,  almost  as  you  wish.  Your  principal  line 
of  beaters  is  of  course  sent  round  to  the  far  end  of  the 


134  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


clump,  and  advanced  very  slowly  as  the  pheasants 
thin  out.  Should  the  birds  have  come  to  the  guns 
so  often  singly,  or  in  such  fashion  that  you  think  too 
many  are  being  killed,  you  have  only  to  press  your 
line  of  beaters  on  a  little  to  produce  a  flush  which 
will  have  the  double  result  of  affording  a  very  pretty 
sight,  and  of  insuring  the  escape  of  a  sufficient 
number  for  a  second  shooting  and  for  stock. 

Now  as  to  placing  your  guns,  sometimes  a  very 
simple  thing,  at  others  a  delicate  matter  involving 
considerable  diplomacy  ;  founded  on  your  knowledge 
of  the  comparative  skill,  the  more  or  less  trustworthy 
qualities,  and  the  vanities  or  weaknesses  of  your  guests. 

The  nearest  line  of  guns,  under  the  sort  of  circum- 
stances I  have  tried  to  describe,  should  be  about  forty 
to  fifty  yards  from  the  fence  inclosing  the  clump,  and 
be  more  in  number  than  the  rear  line,  say  in  the  pro- 
portion of  five  to  three  where  you  have  a  large  quan- 
tity of  birds,  or  five  to  two  where  there  are  fewer. 

If  the  form  of  the  whole  team  be  about  equal,  you 
must  give  them  turn  and  turn  about  at  different 
stands  ;  but  it  is  considerable  odds  that  this  will  not 
be  the  case.  Place  the  two  or  three  weakest  and  most 
greedy  J  in  the  best  places  in  the  front  line  ;  this  will 

1  The  two  qualities  will  often  be  found  to  go  together  in  the 
same  person. 


135 


please  them  ;  place  your  best  and  most  active  behind 
them  at,  say,  thirty  to  forty  yards'  distance,  to  nurse 
them.  This  position,  from  the  implied  compliment, 
and  the  sporting  character  of  the  shots  they  get,  will 
please  the  latter.  The  outside  places,  often  just  as 
good  as  the  centre,  must  be  filled  by  the  men  whose 
shooting  and  temper  can  be  relied  on.  But  never 
commit  the  error,  so  often  seen,  of  giving  a  man 
nothing  but  outside  places  all  day  because  he  is  a 
bad  shot,  or  possibly  in  the  eyes  of  the  world  an  in- 
significant person.  An  angel  could  not  stand  this, 
and  I  have  seen  the  most  sweet-tempered  but  in- 
accurate shooter  goaded  to  madness,  and  converted 
into  an  enemy,  by  being  denied  the  chance,  perhaps 
during  three  or  four  days'  shooting,  of  fairly  par- 
ticipating in  the  amusement  which  has  brought  the 
party  together. 

You  can  always  so  nurse  the  position  of  an  inferior 
shot  that  he  cannot  materially  spoil  the  bag  by  bad 
shooting,  and,  besides,  the  amount  of  the  bag  should 
not,  in  pheasant  shooting,  be  the  primary  considera- 
tion ;  at  any  rate  it  cannot  be  calculated  on  as  though 
every  gun  were  to  be  a  first-rate  shot,  unless  you  make 
a  special  effort  to  eclipse  other  records.  This,  if  I 
may  advise  you,  you  had  far  better  not  attempt.  To 
make  the  largest  bag  on  record  of  pheasants  in 


136  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

England  need  be  no  object  of  ambition  to  anyone, 
since,  granted  a  favourable  soil,  it  is  a  mere  question 
of  how  much  money  is  spent  upon  rearing  and  feeding 
birds. 

The  guns  in  the  back  row  should  always  be  allowed 
to  move  about  to  a  certain  extent,  so  as  to  cover  a 
good  deal  of  ground,  and  to  feel  themselves  at  liberty 
to  run  in  either  direction  to  intercept  any  great  burst 
of  pheasants,  or  to  keep  in  the  main  stream  of  the 
flight,  which  will  vary  somewhat  according  to  which 
portion  of  the  clump  they  are  flushed  from. 

Keepers  with  good  dogs  should  be  posted  in  the 
main  covert  behind  the  guns,  to  pick  up  running  birds 
or  those  which  carry  on  and  drop  dead  or  severely 
wounded,  both  in  the  interests  of  humanity,  and 
especially,  where  there  are  foxes,  to  rescue  them  from 
these  midnight  depredators. 

The  above  method  is,  as  I  have  said,  the  ideal 
one,  and  should  be  followed  wherever  practicable, 
whether  on  a  large  or  a  small  scale,  for  it  is  almost  as 
useful,  as  a  principle,  for  small  coverts  or  belts  as  for 
large  woods. 

But  we  must  also  consider  how  to  apply  it  when 
it  is  not  possible  to  have  a  detached  clump  or  covert 
to  deal  with.  In  the  first  place,  you  can  work  it 
equally  well  should  you  have  a  heath  or  common 


HO IV  TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS  137 


adjoining  the  covert,  or  even  a  turnip  field  where  the 
crop  affords  good  covert.  Everyone  must  have  noticed 
how  high  pheasants  will  rocket  out  of  the  latter  when 
men  are  walking  across  it  for  partridges,  or  when  it  is 
being  driven  in  by  the  beaters,  and  what  splendid  shots 
the  pheasants  would  give  to  anyone  standing  under 
the  wood  they  make  for.  Well,  here  is  your  oppor- 
tunity ;  have  no  fear,  but  after  first  placing  a  few 
stops  on  the  far  side  of  the  heath  or  turnips,  and,  as 
before,  having  well  driven  in  all  outlying  hedgerows — 
a  most  important  matter  for  securing  the  cocks,  espe- 
cially the  old  ones — boldly  drive  all  your  pheasants  in 
the  same  manner  as  before,  without  heading  them,  out 
into  the  turnips.  Place  your  guns  in  a  line,  with  their 
backs  to  the  wood,  and  about  twenty  yards  from  it, 
One  or  two,  if  the  line  be  too  long  for  the  width  of 
the  field  or  heath,  can  back  up  the  others  as  before, 
standing  a  little  way  in  the  wood.  Now,  let  the  whole 
line  of  beaters  advance  from  the  wood  across  the 
turnips  for,  say,  seventy  or  eighty  yards.  Let  the  main 
body  then  fall  out  right  and  left,  and  go  round  to  meet 
on  the  far  side  of  the  field  or  heath  to  bring  it  towards 
you,  but  leaving  a  proportion  of  their  number,  say,  one 
man  to  every  fifteen  yards,  to  stand  in  line,  as  stops, 
right  across  the  field. 

The  main  body,  having  met  on  the  far  side,  must 


138  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 

now  advance  very  slowly,  making  sure  of  every  bit  of 
thick  covert  as  they  go.  As  the  pheasants  flush  they 
will  rise  gradually,  further  incited  to  do  so  by  the  line 
of  stops  which  they  must  pass  over,  and  reach  the 
zenith  of  their  flight  at  about  the  edge  of  the  wood 
that  is,  just  over  the  guns,  who  will  get  all  fairly  high 
and  some  very  difficult  shots. 

Few  people  have  the  courage  to  try  this  plan,  so 
much  so  that  in  a  somewhat  large  experience  I  have 
only  seen  it  done  twice  when  there  were  any  quantity 
of  pheasants,  yet  the  risk  of  failure  is  nil  where  the 
trees  of  the  main  covert  are  high.  It  is  only  where  the 
latter  are  young  and  low,  or  where  the  side  of  the  wood 
next  the  turnip  field  or  heath  consists  of  thickets  with 
no  lofty  timber,  that  the  birds  will  ever  fly  in  on  a  low 
level.  Where  the  edge  of  the  wood  is  of  old  timber 
trees,  the  higher  the  better,  and  where  the  centre  of 
the  covert  has,  as  it  should  have,  sheltering  patches  of 
spruce  and  fir  near  the  feeding  ground,  the  birds  will 
rise  high  to  clear  the  former,  and  make  for  the  thicker 
shelter  of  the  parts  where  they  roost  and  feed. 

Of  course,  if  the  turnip  field  lies  higher  than  the 
covert,  the  difference  of  elevation  will  supply  the  place 
of  the  higher  trees  ;  but  in  this  case  it  will  be  found 
much  more  difficult  to  push  the  birds  uphill  out  of 
the  covert  and  into  the  turnips.  There  are  some 


HOW  TO   SHOW  PHEASANTS  139 

coverts,  usually  small  isolated  ones,  where  no  power 
on  earth  will  induce  the  pheasants  to  fly  on  forward, 
but  where  their  instinct  is  to  turn  back,  or  out  at  the 
sides,  in  order  to  come  into  the  covert  again  behind 
you.  In  this  case  it  should  not  be  forgotten  that  the 
post  of  honour  for  your  best  guns  is  not  forward,  but 
with  the  beaters,  and  that  the  two  outside  positions 
are  probably  the  best. 

Let  these  guns,  unless  the  covert  is  altogether  too 
thick,  walk  with  the  beaters  a  little  way  inside  the  covert 
instead  of  outside  it.  They  will  be  able  to  reach  all 
that  break  out  at  the  side  to  fly  back,  and  inwards  to 
the  middle  of  the  covert  as  well ;  whereas  if  they  walk 
outside  they  will  not  be  able  to  reach  those  flying 
back  over  the  trees,  they  will  not  kill  the  ground-game, 
and  can  only  be  of  use  on  one  side.  I  have  walked 
outside  a  covert  parallel  with  the  beaters  many 
hundred  times,  and  seen  many  others  do  so,  but  I 
never  yet  saw  anyone  have  much  shooting  in  that 
position.  Guns  are  usually  so  placed  from  the  keeper's 
idea  that  they  dislike  exertion  of  any  kind,  and  are 
averse  to  going  through  the  covert ;  whereas,  provided 
it  is  not  so  thick  that  you  cannot  traverse  it  safely  with 
the  gun,  or  see  to  shoot,  it  is  always  pleasanter  and 
more  remunerative  to  the  bag  to  walk  inside. 

The  most  detestable  form  of  pheasant  shooting  is 


1 40  SHOOTING   THE  PHEASANT 

when  you  are  called  upon  to  beat  a  large  wood  in  a 
flat  country,  the  birds  being  headed  at  the  end  of 
every  one  of  the  monotonous  squares  into  which  it  is 
divided  by  narrow  rides.  This,  however,  one  fre- 
quently sees,  and  one  is  usually  told  that  it  must  be 
done  this  way  so  as  to  get  the  ground-game.  I  am 
quite  convinced  that  you  cannot  realise  properly  from 
the  rabbits  and  pheasants  on  the  same  day  ;  and  even 
if  the  destruction  of  the  former  be  your  principal 
object,  this  is  a  bad  as  well  as  a  dangerous  way  to 
secure  them.  If  the  pheasants  are  your  principal 
object,  show  your  pheasants  well  in  three  or  four  good 
flushes,  and  let  the  rabbits  take  care  of  themselves. 
Enough  will  be  killed  for  amusement,  and  you  can 
make  them  the  principal  item  of  a  later  day,  when  you 
can  afford  to  walk  the  wood  in  line  and  allow  the 
pheasants  to  go  where  they  please. 

This  is  the  only  way  to  kill  ground-game  in  covert 
safely  and  pleasantly  ;  but  when  each  beat  in  the  wood 
is  surrounded  by  guns  ahead,  guns  at  the  side,  and 
guns  with  the  beaters,  very  few  safe  shots  are  obtained 
except  at  those  which  go  back,  no  result  proportionate 
to  the  amount  of  rabbits  is  realised,  while  the  only 
shots  at  pheasants  are  low  and  unsatisfactory. 

In  a  wood  so  formed,  and  without  any  detached 
covert  to  drive  the  birds  forward  into,  let  a  definite 


HO W  TO  SHOIV  PHEASANTS  141 

portion,  end  or  corner,  be  reserved  to  represent  a  clump 
as  far  as  possible.  This  must  be  thickened  by  under- 
growth or  false  covert,  or  both ;  the  former  is  far  pre- 
ferable, and  should  the  rabbits  be  so  numerous  as  to 
destroy  it,  wire  netting  can  be  kept  round  it  all  the  year, 
and  be  taken  up  on  the  day  before  the  shooting. 

At  the  proper  distance  from  this  thick  portion, 
which  we  will  call  the  flush,  and  so  planned  as  to 
intercept  the  line  which  the  pheasants  are  most  likely 
to  take  in  making  back  into  the  main  part  of  the 
wood,  some  sort  of  clearing,  or,  if  possible,  a  broad 
ride,  should  be  cut  for  a  stand  for  the  guns.  It  will 
not  be  found  necessary  to  cut  down  every  tree  in  this 
ride.  The  best  and  most  ornamental  may  be  left ; 
but  the  undergrowth  should  be  cleared,  and  may  even 
be  removed  with  advantage  over  a  great  part  of  the 
area  between  the  stand  and  the  flush.  If  the  ground 
favours  it,  and  the  wood  does  not  lie  on  an  absolute 
flat,  take  advantage  of  any  fall  in  the  ground  to  get 
the  stand  on  a  lower  level  than  the  flush.  Here  place 
your  guns  in  one  line,  or  two,  as  before  ;  only  in  this 
case  you  may  very  likely  want  one  or  two  at  the  back 
or  sides  of  the  flush,  with  the  beaters,  especially  in 
case  there  be  an  adjoining  large  wood  which  some 
birds  may  make  for. 

All  this  part  of  the  business  is  simple  enough  ;  you 


I42 


have,  as  you  see,  almost  reproduced  the  conditions  of 
the  detached  clump,  and  the  stand  for  the  guns  ;  but 
to  get  the  birds  bodily  into  this  clump,  if  the  wood 
be  a  large  square  one,  or  of  sufficient  breadth  and 
irregularity  to  require  three,  four,  or  even  more  beats, 
may  be  a  difficult  matter. 

Here,  again,  your  object  will  be  to  get  them  to  run 
forward,  till  finally  collected  in  the  flush,  without 
having  been  flushed  or  headed.  You  cannot  cover 
the  whole  wood  in  one  line,  and  must  therefore  take 
it  in  separate  beats.  These  should  be  divided  by 
rides,  or  strips,  as  they  call  them  in  some  places, 
which  need  not  be  wide,  and  should  have  been  made 
for  the  purpose  of  the  shooting,  without  reference  to 
any  older  rides,  existing  from  the  time  of  the  wood 
being  planted,  which  in  all  probability  will  not  fit  in 
with  this  system  of  beating. 

Each  beat  must  now  be  taken  towards  the  same 
direction,  which  for  the  sake  of  clearness  we  will  call 
the  east  end,  being  that  at  which  the  corner  where 
you  have  made  your  flush  is  situated.  Starting  each 
time  from  the  west  end,  your  line  will  be  wheeled 
each  time  up  towards  the  flush,  and  will  then  return 
empty  along  the  strip,  leaving  frequent  stops,  to  re- 
commence the  next  beat. 

But  it  is  here  that  I  wish  to  point  out  what  may  be 


HOW  TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS 


143 


novel  to  many  of  my  readers,  while  it  is  very  easy  to 
carry  out.  All  along  the  east  end  of  the  wood  the 
covert  must  be  thickened  a  little  to  facilitate  the  birds 


N. 


W. 

x  Stops  left  along  rides  after  each  beat. 

®  Guns  posted  either  at  the  stand   or  moving  on  the  rides  along  the 
flank  in  advance  of  the  line. 

The  line  of  guns  and  beaters  as  seen  at  different  points. 

running  in  shelter  up  to  the  flush.     Most  important 
of  all,  the  strips  must  not  be  cut  right  through  to  the 


I44  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

east  end,  but  so  as  to  leave  a  belt,  as  it  were,  of,  say, 
30  yards  wide  or  more.  Each  time  you  wheel  the 
line,  the  birds  in  front  of  you,  being  given  plenty  of 
time  as  before,  will  run  across  in  the  shelter  of  this 
belt  and  towards  the  flush.  Should  the  rides  you  use 
be  old  ones,  running  right  through  to  the  east  edge  of 
the  wood,  they  must  be  made  up  or  screened  with 
artificial  covert,  so  that  the  pheasants  will  not  fear 
to  cross.  A  careful  stop  or  two  must  be  left  after 
each  beat  in  this  thick  belt.  In  walking  up  each 
beat  the  right  hand  may  be  kept  a  little  forward, 
and  the  wheel  begun  a  good  way  before  reaching 
the  end. 

By  this  means,  still  preserving  the  system  of  not 
getting  too  near  the  birds,  they  will  be  constantly 
pushed  before  you  towards  the  east  end,  and  then 
turned  across  towards  the  flush.  You  will  not  be  able 
to  do  this  in  a  wood  of  this  shape  without  flushing  a 
few  here  and  there,  some  of  which  will  break  across 
to  the  end  already  beaten.  To  meet  this,  keep  two 
or  three  guns  always  ahead  of  the  line  on  the  north 
side,  leaving  the  south  side,  that  towards  the  flush, 
always  open. 

In  the  last  beat  you  will  find  a  good  many  birds, 
and  must  go  more  gingerly  than  ever,  with  perhaps 
half  your  guns  forward  of  the  line  on  the  north  side  ; 


HO  IV  TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS  145 


but  with  proper  care,  especially  towards  the  end,  a 
burst  should  be  avoided,  and  nearly  every  bird  driven 
forward  into  the  flush.  You  may  then  run  a  net  or 
wire  round  the  inside  of  the  flush,  and  feel  safe  to 
post  your  guns  and  begin  the  rise  at  your  ease. 

Your  greatest  danger  in  beating  your  birds  on  this 
system— that  is,  in  collecting  them  into  a  large  mass,  to 
be  driven  into  a  detached  clump  or  to  a  flush  within 
the  covert — may  come  from  foxes,  and  it  is  only  fair  to 
add  that  there  are  no  foxes  in  Holkham  Park.  It  is 
possible  that  a  fox  may  get  among  the  mass  of  birds 
just  at  the  critical  time,  when  they  are  about  to  cross 
into  the  flush,  and  if  so  he  may  spring  a  large  number 
which  will  turn  back  over  you  ;  but  here  again,  as  you 
must  risk  something,  the  advantage  of  having  no  one 
ahead,  and  of  your  slow  pace  and  the  noise,  will  be 
apparent.  If  given  time,  and  thoroughly  alarmed,  a  fox 
is  more  likely  to  break  covert  and  go  away  than  when 
hemmed  in  and  headed  on  all  sides.  When  he  does 
break,  he  may  very  likely  run  on  into  your  detached 
covert,  and  so  do  you  harm.  I  would  therefore  advise 
you  in  woods  where  you  are  pretty  sure  to  find  a  fox, 
not  to  place  the  semicircular  wire  netting  spoken  of 
above  round  your  clump,  and  to  give  your  stops  on 
the  far  side  orders  not  to  head  the  fox  or  holloa  at 
him  if  he  shows  a  disposition  to  break  covert  again 

L 


HOW  TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS  147 

and  go  away  on  the  opposite  side.  The  unnecessary 
'  tally-ho '  and  holloaing  by  stops  outside  the  covert 
is  usually  what  induces  a  fox  to  cling  closely  to 
the  covert  in  spite  of  the  noise  of  guns  and  the 
advancing  line. 

One  other  simple  instance  of  how  to  show  phea- 
sants I  must  point  out.  This  is  the  common  one, 
where  it  is  necessary  or  desirable  to  make  a  stand  and 
head  the  birds  in  a  narrowish  place  between  two 
woods,  and  where  the  ground  slopes  down  each  way 
to  the  stand.  Here,  if  you  push  the  birds  in  the  con- 
ventional manner  down  to  the  end,  you  will  observe 
the  result  shown  at  the  point  in  the  drawing  oppo- 
site ;  that  is,  a  quantity  of  low  undesirable  shots,  dis- 
gusting the  shooters  placed  in  the  hollow,  who  can- 
not from  their  cramped  position  get  away  from  the 
birds,  and  who  will,  from  reluctance  to  shoot,  after 
smashing  a  few,  allow  the  majority  to  fly  on  unharmed. 

This  is  obviated  by  the  simple  expedient  of  placing 
a  wire  netting  across  the  covert  about  60  to  80  yards 
from  the  end,  at  the  point  B.  The  result  then  becomes, 
as  seen  at  the  point  c,  very  pretty  shots  for  the  guns, 
standing  in  exactly  the  same  position,  and  the  birds 
are  driven  forward  just  as  satisfactorily  into  the  second 
covert,  but  minus  the  proper  number  realised  ;  while 
two  or  three  guns  with  the  beaters  will  take  care  of  all 


148  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


that  try  to  break  back  from  the  flush  near  the  wire 
netting. 

When  beating  coverts  that  hang  on  the  side  of 
steep  hills,  as  on  the  Yorkshire  wolds,  or  on  other  pre- 
cipitous or  hilly  ground,  you  can  be  pretty  sure  of  high 
rocketers,  but  you  will  get  the  maximum  of  high  birds 
and  the  minimum  of  low  ones  if  you  plant  and  thicken 
the  covert  along  the  top  side,  and  keep  it  thin  on  the 
lower.  Then,  as  you  beat  along  the  face  of  the  hill, 
keep  the  lower  end  of  your  line  well  forward,  and  the 
birds  will  have  a  tendency  to  run  uphill  all  the  time, 
and  being  flushed  from  the  top,  will  give  high  and 
beautiful  shots  in  whatever  direction  they  fly. 

In  such  localities  as  these,  the  detached   clump 
system    is   hardly   necessary  :    there   should   be   no 
difficulty,  by  adhering  to  the  principle  given  above 
and  always  flushing  your  birds  off  the  higher  part  of 
the  ground,  in  showing  them  to  perfection. 

It  is  in  a  flat,  or  only  slightly  undulating,  country, 
perhaps  not  blest  with  tall  trees,  that  the  methods  I 
have  described  will  be  found  of  most  value.  In  so 
doing  I  have  carefully  avoided  advising  anything  im- 
practicable or  theoretic  ;  but  those  who  have  hitherto 
found  a  difficulty  in  showing  their  birds  well,  and 
who  are  inclined  to  try  new  methods  to  meet  the 
views  of  the  modern  gunner,  must  bear  in  mind  that 


HO W  TO  SHOW  PHEASANTS  149 


the  judicious  use  of  the  woodman's  axe,  a  moderate 
knowledge  of  forestry,  combined  with  experience  of 
the  ways  of  pheasants,  will  help  greatly,  without  dis- 
figuring or  undesirably  altering  the  character  of  their 
woods,  to  convert  a  very  bad  shoot  into  a  very  good 
one. 

Pheasants  can  be  made  to  afford  '  sporting  shots,' 
and  sometimes  really  high  ones,  in  any  country  and 
with  any  coverts  ;  but  the  old  methods,  which  are 
merely  a  survival  of  the  days  when  these  birds  were 
scarce,  and  good  shots  as  scarce  as  the  birds,  must  be 
abandoned.  As  we  have  reduced  pheasant  shooting 
to  an  absolutely  artificial  pursuit,  and  as  the  demand 
for  it  in  perfection  seems  to  grow  every  day,  there 
can  be  no  reason  why  we  should  not  make  use  of 
every  improvement  or  appliance  we  can  procure  from 
the  intelligence  and  experience  of  others. 

In  these  days,  as  I  have  said  elsewhere,  shooting 
is  not  only  pleasanter,  but  more  remunerative  when 
handsomely  and  cleverly  done.  Discipline,  not  dis- 
content, must  be  the  order  of  the  day  among  the 
beaters,  and  a  full  knowledge  of  what  can  be  done 
with  pheasants,  and  how  it  is  done  in  other  places, 
should  as  far  as  possible  be  acquired  by  the  head 
keeper. 

I  would  again  urge  the  desirability  of  giving  your 


ISO  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


keepers  all  the  best  standard  books  on  shooting.  At  a 
very  little  cost  you  can  found  a  small  gun-room  library, 
which,  though  possibly  not  consisting  of  more  than 
twenty  volumes,  would  be  of  untold'  value  to  your 
keepers,  and  make  it  far  easier  for  them  to  understand 
the  apparently  novel  and  startling  suggestions  which 
you  may  wish  to  substitute  for  the  old  order  of  things. 


CHAPTER    III 

HOW    TO    KILL    THEM 

To  shoot  pheasants  well,  under  the  usual  modern 
conditions — namely,  several  guns,  plenty  of  birds,  and 
plenty  of  time  to  kill  them  in— there  are  essential 
points  to  be  borne  in  mind. 

I  have  laid  stress  in  former  volumes  of  this  series 
on  the  fact  that  it  is  impossible  to  teach  anyone  how 
to  shoot  driven  birds.  This  remark  does  not  apply  in 
the  same  degree  to  pheasant  shooting.  To  kill  them 
really  well  overhead,  as  our  finest  and  most  practised 
English  shots  can  do,  is  perhaps  beyond  the  reach  of 
the  average  gunner,  since  it  is  conceded  by  all  such 
performers  that  really  high  pheasants,  whether  coming 
fast  or  slow,  are  the  most  difficult  of  all  birds  to  kill 
with  certainty  and  neatness. 

But  we  do  not,  alas  !  see  them  really  high  every- 
where, and  in  the  matter  of  satisfying  your  host,  your 
neighbours,  and  your  own  aspirations  after  good  form, 
so  much  may  be  acquired  by  attention  to  the  points 


152  SHOOTING   THE  PHEASANT 

I  shall  endeavour  to  indicate,  that  it  may  almost  be 
said  that  a  man  can  be  taught,  or  learn  for  himself, 
even  when  not  naturally  a  fine  shot,  to  make  a  very 
good  performance  at  the  average  pheasant.  There 
are,  to  begin  with,  several  points  in  your  favour,  not 
always  to  be  found  in  other  sorts  of  shooting.  You 
know  the  direction  the  birds  are  coming  from,  and 
the  probable  limit  of  distance  for  your  shots  ;  and, 
what  is  more  important  than  either,  the  pace  at  which 
they  come  is  not  likely  to  vary  much.  You  stand,  or 
at  least  it  should  be  so  arranged  that  you  do,  on  firm 
and  even  ground,  are  not  struggling  with  turnips  or 
long  heather,  are  not  out  of  breath  or  much  fatigued, 
and  have  plenty  of  time  to  arrange  all  your  prelimi- 
naries. 

Granted  these,  the  most  common  conditions  of 
standing  forward  to  kill  pheasants,  I  will  try  to  show, 
without  wishing  to  lay  down  a  law,  what,  from  my 
own  experience  and  observation,  I  should  say  can 
and  ought  to  be  learnt  by  any  able-bodied  man  who 
is  blessed  with  good  eyesight. 

Let  us  take  the  commonest  instance  first.  You 
are  placed  to  stand  at  the  end  of  a  wood,  or  of  a  beat 
in  a  wood,  either  in  a  broad  ride  or  in  the  field  out- 
side, with  another  gun  on  each  side  of  you,  say,  twenty- 
five  yards  off,  very  likely  less,  and  the  birds  are  pushed 


HOW  TO  KILL    THEM  153 

over  your  heads  at  an  easy  killing  distance.  If  these 
are  very  few  in  number  and  come  singly  you  may  kill 
them  all.  But  if  there  are  many,  especially  where  the 
management  is  good,  you  are  only  expected  to  kill 
your  fair  share  of  what  come  over  you  individually. 
In  nine  cases  out  of  ten  you  will  see  the  same  birds 
again,  and  at  any  rate  the  owner  of  the  shooting  cal- 
culates his  day  on  the  basis  that  a  good  number  will 
escape  for  another  day  and  for  breeding. 

This  disposes  at  once  of  all  necessity  for  haste. 
There  can  be  no  rivalry,  or  reason  for  scoring  a  large 
individual  bag  of  pheasants,  and  though  you  ought  to 
shoot  freely,  nay  rapidly,  at  times,  divest  yourself 
once  and  for  all  of  the  idea  that  every  bird  must  be 
secured  at  all  hazards,  as  though  he  were  a  royal  stag 
or  a  white  rhinoceros.  I  am  all  for  keenness,  especi- 
ally in  the  young — no  man  is  much  good  at  sport  with- 
out it — but  there  is  a  particular  class  of  keenness, 
closely  allied  to  jealousy,  which  when  displayed  by  one 
of  a  party  for  covert  shooting  is  most  objectionable. 

Do  not,  therefore,  be  too  anxious  to  secure  every 
individual  bird  ;  there  is  never  any  excuse  for  this, 
unless  when  you  are  killing  cocks  only,  and  are 
specially  asked  to  realise  every  possible  shot.  Shoot- 
ing pheasants  should  be  a  more  or  less  deliberate 
performance  ;  roughly  speaking,  they  should  be  shot 


154  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


slowly.  By  this  I  mean,  not  that  the  gun  should  not 
be  got  off  with  frequency  and  rapidity,  but  that  the 
most  accomplished  and  artistic  performer  will  care 
more  for  killing  his  pheasants  properly  than  for 
merely  bringing  a  quantity  to  the  ground  at  all 
hazards.  As  I  have  ventured  to  say  already,  it  is 
an  artificial  pursuit  altogether,  and  though  you  will 
often  find  that  the  most  apparently  deliberate  man 
secures  the  largest  result,  it  has  not  been  so  much 
the  large  result,  to  which  he  is  probably  well  accus- 
tomed, but  the  style  in  which  it  is  attained,  that  the 
first-rate  performer  studies  the  most. 

From  what  I  have  said  it  follows  that  the  crime 
of  taking  your  neighbour's  bird  is  more  heinous  in 
pheasant  shooting  than  in  the  wilder  forms  of  sport, 
where  the  possible  addition  of  a  scarce  bird  to  the 
bag  sometimes  makes  it  pardonable.  Standing  in 
the  position  I  have  described,  take  deliberately  only 
those  which  are  well  over  your  own  ground,  selecting 
always  the  cocks  as  much  as  possible,  and  those 
which  are  not  too  near  you.  If  a  bird  is  coming 
straight  to  you  out  of  or  over  the  covert,  and  suddenly 
deflects  towards  your  neighbour  as  you  are  on  the 
point  of  shooting,  you  have  the  well-recognised  right 
to  stick  to  him.  But  if  he  is  passing  you  either 
slanting  or  crossing  straight,  and  although  a  poor 


HO W  TO  KILL    THEM  155 

shot  for  you,  will  give  a  really  good  overhead  chance 
to  another,  you  should  leave  him  alone. 

Never  fire  at  a  low  pheasant,  under  any  circum- 
stances whatsoever,  when  you  are  one  of  a  party  of 
guns.  When  the  line  of  beaters  is  approaching,  and 
may  be  a  hundred  yards  off,  this  is  particularly 
dangerous,  as  what  looks  an  inviting  cross-shot,  say, 
ten  or  twelve  feet  from  the  ground,  is  precisely  on  the 
level  which  at  the  farther  distance  will  catch  the 
advancing  line  about  their  heads. 

I  should  hope  that  the  day  is  past  when  it  is 
necessary  to  warn  people  against  firing  at  low  phea- 
sants rising  in  front  of  them  when  there  are  guns 
— or  any  persons — ahead.  Mr.  Grimble,  in  his 
excellent  book,  has  singled  me  out  for  praise  on  some 
occasion  when  I  forbore  to  do  this.  I  disclaim  any 
right  to  distinction  on  such  an  account,  and  should 
be  very  indignant  at  the  supposition  that  anyone 
calling  himself  a  sportsman  could  do  anything  so 
greedy  or  so  dangerous. 

As  I  have  said  in  the  last  chapter,  pheasants  ought 
never  to  be  flushed  at  the  end  of  a  covert  close  to  the 
guns.  This  is,  however,  presumably  unavoidable  in 
some  cases,  and  at  any  rate  you  are  sure  to  find 
yourself  at  times  standing  pretty  near  the  flush.  In 
this  case,  again,  the  less  haste  the  better.  As  the  birds 


156 


SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


rise,  possibly  not  twenty  yards  away,  it  is  essentially 
bad  style  to  shoot  at  them  before  they  have  risen  to 


the  height  at  which  they  will  pursue  their  course  over 
the  heads  of  the  guns.  It  is  difficult  to  convey  one's 
meaning  without  an  illustration  of  some  sort,  but  in 


HO  W  TO  KILL    THEM  157 


the  opposite  rough  diagram  the  conventional  flush  at 
the  end  of  a  covert  is  shown,  and  if  you  are  placed  as 
the  shooter  is  there,  it  is  at  the  point  B,  and  not  at 
the  point  A,  that  you  should  try  to  kill  your  bird.  It 
is  only  the  bad  or  greedy  shot  who  fires  at  the  point 
A.  The  bird  is  here  only  moving  upward,  and  the 
whole  of  his  body  is  exposed  to  your  fire  ;  should 
you  not  aim  sufficiently  above  him,  you  will  smash 
him  to  pieces,  make  him  unfit  for  the  table,  and, 
while  appearing  over-keen  and  deserving  no  credit  for 
the  shot,  you  will  spoil  the  chance,  either  for  yourself 
or  your  neighbour,  of  a  kill,  properly  executed,  without 
damage  to  the  bird,  at  the  angle  B.  Should  the  bird 
come  over  the  trees  in  front  of  you,  from  some  more 
remote  flushing  point,  the  angle  B  is  still  the  proper 
one,  when  he  is  coming  directly  over  your  head,  at 
which  to  kill  him.  Properly  done,  it  should  be  a 
single-barrel  performance.  In  this  case  to  kill  him 
sooner  is  more  difficult  than  at  the  correct  angle  B, 
and  you  will  constantly  see  the  bird  missed  with  the 
first  barrel  at  the  point  c  and  cleverly  killed  with  the 
second  at  B.  But  this  is  a  waste  of  a  cartridge,  and 
when  many  birds  are  coming,  of  a  chance.  You 
should  have  sufficient  confidence,  for  a  shot  of  this 
kind,  to  rely  entirely  on  the  single  shot  at  the  proper 
angle.  You  may,  though  you  probably  will  not,  in 


158  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 

case  of  a  miss,  secure  him  behind  you,  but  this  is 
always  a  difficult  shot  to  kill  dead. 

Again,  should  you  miss  him  at  the  proper  angle  B 
(provided  always  he  is  passing  directly  over  you),  you 
may,  if  you  are  active  and  not  stiff  in  the  back  or 
shoulders,  kill  him  by  a  very  rapid  second  barrel, 
achieved  by  a  more  determined  toss  of  the  gun,  still 
farther  back,  say  at  D,  and  without  changing  position 
or  turning  round.  You  will  almost  lose  your  balance, 
as  the  bird  will  have  passed  beyond  the  vertical  line 
straight  above  you,  but  you  are  more  likely  to  kill  him 
this  way  than  by  turning  round.  Some  men,  so  long 
as  they  retain  their  activity  and  suppleness  of  body,  are 
able  to  make  this  a  very  deadly  shot. 

Everyone  who  has  shot  much  has  experience  of 
missing  an  easy  chance  with  the  first  barrel,  and 
killing  with  great  rapidity  and  certainty  with  the 
second  from  irritation.  Quick  as  the  operation  is,  there 
is  time  in  the  moment  between  the  first  and  second 
barrels  for  the  temper  to  be  roused  by  one's  own 
failure,  and  a  consequent  increase  of  resolution, 
activity,  and  accuracy  to  be  imparted  to  the  second 
shot.  More  bad  shots  are  due  to  inertness,  slackness, 
carelessness — call  it  what  you  will — than  to  lack  of 
accurate  eyesight  or  activity,  and  the  result  above 
mentioned,  with  which  we  are  all  familiar,  is  only 


HOW   TO  KILL    THEM  159 

due  to  the  stimulus  of  annoyance  calling  forth  the 
amount  of  energy  which  ought  to  have  been  applied 
in  the  first  instance.  The  gun  must  swing  with 
rapidity  and  accuracy,  directed  by  the  hand  and  eye  ; 
if  you  are  not  sufficiently  keen,  or  are  not  roused  to 
the  proper  effort,  in  this,  as  in  everything  else,  you 
will  fail. 

Now,  as  to  the  ordinary  easily  killable  pheasant, 
the  great  thing  to  bear  in  mind  is  that  you  have 
nothing  to  do  with  his  body  or  his  tail.  The  latter  ap- 
pendage, so  dear  to  the  heart  of  the  cockney  journalist, 
should  have  no  concern  or  attraction  for  you,  nor  must 
you  allow  your  eye  to  be  deceived  by  it.  The  head 
and  neck  of  a  pheasant  is  roughly  about  the  size  of  a 
snipe,  and  a  snipe  driven  past  you  at  easy  distance,  if  he 
has  ceased  to  twist,  is  rather  less  difficult  than  a  driven 
partridge.  Proceed,  therefore,  on  the  principle  that 
the  bird's  head  is  a  snipe,  look  well  at  it,  and  shoot 
well  in  front  of  it.  Should  you  not  place  the  centre 
of  your  charge  with  exact  accuracy  on  the  head  and 
neck,  there  will  still  be  enough  outside  pellets  to 
strike  the  forward  part  of  the  body  and  kill  in  respect- 
able style.  But  if  you  treat  the  pheasant  as  a 
whole,  from  the  tip  of  his  beak  to  the  point  of  his 
tail,  your  shot  will  be  landed  about  the  rump  and 
thighs,  and  even  though  he  falls  in  a  cloud  of 


160  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

feathers,  you  will  have  made  a  bad  shot,  and  the 
bird  will  be  unfit  for  the  table  of  even  your  bitterest 
enemy. 

When,  as  occasionally  happens,  it  is  necessary  to 
kill  a  pheasant  very  near  you,  this  principle  becomes 
still  more  vital,  and  you  must  learn  to  account  yourself 
a  better  man  should  you  miss  him  altogether  by  shoot- 
ing in  front,  than  should  you  kill  and  mangle  him  by 
being  five  inches  too  far  back.  It  is  not  so  difficult 
to  '  neck '  a  close  pheasant  as  one  might  imagine, 
and  if  you  proceed  on  the  principle  I  laid  down  in 
the  volume  on  the  '  Partridge,'  viz.  that  you  never 
have  to  shoot  at  a  bird  (unless  going  from  or  coming  to 
you  quite  straight,  and  on  the  level),  but  at  the  spot 
in  the  air  where  the  shot  will  intercept  him  ;  and 
further,  if  you  treat  his  head  and  neck  as  represent- 
ing the  whole  bird,  you  will  find  that  you  can  slay 
a  great  proportion  of  the  closest  pheasants  without 
spoiling  the  flesh  of  any,  while  putting  them  to  the 
most  artistic  and  merciful  death  possible. 

It  must  not  be  supposed  that  I  claim  that  this  feat 
can  be  performed  every  time  by  anybody  ;  there  would 
no  longer  be  any  pleasure  in  shooting  if  there  were 
no  missing  ;  and  no  zest  in  the  pursuit  of  any  sport 
or  game  if  the  element  of  uncertainty  were  entirely 
eliminated  ;  but  it  is  the  right  thing  to  try  for,  and, 


HO  W  TO  KILL    THEM  161 

by  a  good  natural  shot,  not  so  difficult  of  attainment 
as  many  seem  to  think. 

When,  as  often  happens,  you  are  in  the  front  row 
of  guns,  with  one  or  two  picked  guns  forming  a  second 
row  behind  you,  you  should  not,  so  to  speak,  pursue 
the  birds  which  have  passed  you.  If  you  do,  you 
will  appear  greedy,  and  probably  kill  or  wound  them 
exactly  at  the  moment  when  the  gun  behind  you  is 
just  about  to  fire.  As  you  are  sure  to  get  considerably 
more  shooting  in  the  front  than  he  does  in  the  back 
row,  you  will  be  treating  him  unfairly,  and  unneces- 
sarily annoying  him. 

When  a  pheasant  passes  exactly  halfway  between 
you  and  your  neighbour,  I  would  always  recommend 
letting  it  pass  the  line  a  little  way  before  firing ;  let 
him  have  the  chance  of  killing  it  first,  if  he  is  suffi- 
ciently greedy  to  try  and  do  so.  It  is  almost  sure  to  be 
an  easy  chance,  which  will  gain  you  no  kudos ;  and,  as 
I  have  said  above,  there  is  no  excuse  for  scoring  one 
against  the  other  in  pheasant  shooting. 

The  happiest  position  at  a  big  rise  of  pheasants  is 
to  be  placed  in  the  back  row,  with  two  moderate  and 
not  greedy  guns  in  front  of  you.  Should  those  in 
front  shoot  too  well,  it  is  not  always  such  good  fun, 
though  very  pretty  to  look  on  at. 

I  remember  once  standing  in  this  position  behind 

M 


1 62  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


the  late  General  (Jim)  Macdonald  and  Lord  Hunting- 
field.  The  birds  were  flushed  in  small  quantities  at 
a  time,  and  in  the  most  artistic  manner.  We  killed 
350  at  the  stand,  and  I  killed  13  !  I  had  nothing 
but  single  shots,  all  high,  and  I  think  only  missed 
two  or  three  ;  but  the  performance  in  front  of  me 
was  exceptional  and  well  worth  looking  at,  and  I 
never  enjoyed  a  rise  of  pheasants  more. 

So  far  as  I  have  observed,  the  most  difficult  over- 
head pheasant  to  kill  is  that  which  is  coming  over 
you  in  a  curve,  or,  as  it  is  often  called,  '  with  a  curl 
on.'  The  inward  curve  is,  I  think,  the  hardest  to 
deal  with,  especially  if  you  are  sufficiently  near  to  the 
place  where  the  bird  was  flushed  for  him  to  be  still 
rising.  You  will  often  see  this  kind  of  shot  offered 
when  there  is  a  strong  side  wind.  The  bird  which  is 
intended  to  fly  straight  towards  and  over  you  will 
rise,  as  every  bird  must,  with  his  breast  to  the  wind  ; 
as  he  faces  it  struggling  to  keep  his  head  towards  it, 
but  knowing  he  must  rise  to  clear  the  trees,  he  loses 
more  and  more  control  over  his  flight ;  the  wind  gets 
underneath  him  when  he  has  risen  a  certain  distance 
from  the  ground;  half  a  turn  to  one  side,  and  it  catches 
him  fairly  broadside  on.  In  a  second,  like  a  vessel 
caught  in  a  sudden  squall,  he  is  rudderless  and  un- 
manageable, and  has  to  drift  with  the  wind  ;  round 


HO  IV  TO    KILL    THEM 


163 


he  swings,  and  conies  partly  over  and  partly  across 
you  at  a  tremendous  pace,  still  rising  a  little  and  at  a 
curve  resembling  that  of  a  skater  on  the  outside  edge. 
How  can  one  lay  down  a  rule  for  killing  such  a 
bird  ?  It  is  true  you  can  let  him  go  right  past  and, 


A.  Position  of  shooter. 

B.  Point  where  the  bird  becomes  paralysed  by  the  heavy  wind  blowing  in 

the  direction  of  the  arrow  ;  the  surest  point  at  which  to  kill  him. 
c.  The  next  gun  in  position. 

half  turning  round,  follow  him  up  with  your  shot; 
and  possibly  kill  him,  but  at  the  pace  he  is  going  he 
will  be  a  long  way  off  by  the  time  your  shot  reaches 
him,  and  most  probably  be  directly  over  your  neigh- 
bour's head,  and  should  you  kill  him,  he  will  fall  just 
about  on  the  head  or  at  the  feet  of  the  gun  next  be- 

M  2 


1 64  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


yond  your  neighbour  ;  so  that  this  does  not  somehow 
seem  to  be  the  right  way  to  take  him.  But  there  is 
another  mistake  you  may  certainly  avoid,  and  that  is 
shooting  too  soon  at  him.  While  he  is  still  rising 
rapidly  and  the  inward  curve  has  begun,  unless  you 
are  a  very  first-rate  shot,  you  are  as  sure  to  miss  him 
as  possible,  and  it  is  beyond  me  to  tell  you  how  to 
kill  him,  except  that  it  must  be  done  by  instinct ;  but 
if  you  take  him  just  at  the  moment  when  he  becomes 
helpless  and  has  to  turn  and  go  with  the  wind,  you 
may  have  the  satisfaction  of  crumpling  him  up. 
Here,  again,  is  an  exceptional  instance,  absolutely 
proving  the  rule,  where  you  will  shoot  straight,  or 
almost  straight,  at  the  bird ;  but  unless  you  are  rather 
over  than  under  him  even  in  this  instance  the  wind 
will  just  lift  him  out  of  your  shot,  you  wound  him, 
and  back  he  goes  down  the  covert  a  dying  bird,  but 
carried  on  the  breeze  for  perhaps  two  hundred  yards 
before  he  reaches  the  ground. 

If  you  are  not  near  enough  to  the  flush  to  do  this 
you  will  get  the  most  difficult  shot  which  a  pheasant 
ever  presents.  He  will  be  passing  over  and  towards 
you  on  the  aforesaid  inward  curve  from  a  point  out- 
side you  on  your  right  front  to  another  outside  you 
on  your  left  rear,  and  at  a  terrific  pace.  The  only 
hint  I  can  give  you  here  is  to  rely  on  your  left  arm 


HOW   TO   KILL    THEM  165 


entirely  to  lift  your  gun  inwards  and  a  long  way  in 
front  of  the  bird  before  he  has  got  directly  over  your 
head ;  if  you  can  carry  this  out  and  shoot  a  little 
sooner  than  usual,  you  may  manage  him,  but  if  when 
he  is  on  this  curve  and  at  this  pace  you  once  let  him 
get  right  over  you,  it  is  goodbye  to  him  ;  you  are 
sure  to  shoot  outside  the  curve  of  his  flight,  and 
most  probably  behind  him  as  well,  while  the  velocity 
of  his  flight  will  not  admit  of  your  turning  round 
rapidly  or  steadily  enough,  after  such  a  definite  effort, 
to  kill  him  after  he  has  passed. 

The  bird  whose  curve  is  outward  from  you  is.  on 
the  other  hand,  a  less  difficult  and  quite  killable  shot. 
Should  he  be,  as  is  probable,  still  rising,  you  have 
only  to  remember — always  the  same  caution — not  to 
be  under  him,  and  as  he  must  present  a  purely  broad- 
side mark  at  some  point  of  the  curve,  take  him  as 
nearly  as  possible  at  that  point,  and  you  will  compass 
him  without  difficulty. 

Anyone  familiar  with  varieties  of  shooting  must 
have  heard  the  point  discussed  as  to  why  the  pheasant 
which  has  long  passed  his  '  zenith,'  and  is  skimming 
or  sailing  broadside  on  to  you,  and  getting  pretty 
near  the  ground,  is  so  often  missed.  Certainly  it 
happens  so,  and  to  the  best  of  marksmen,  at  any  rate 
at  distances  beyond  thirty  yards.  But  I  think  the 


1 66  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 

failure  is  more  due  to  the  attitude  of  the  bird  towards 
you,  than  to  want  of  skill  in  the  shooter,  though  there 
is  undoubtedly  something  which  bothers  you  about 
the  look  of  him.     When  you  come  to  analyse  it,  how- 
ever, it  is  wonderful  how  his  peculiar  position  towards 
you  protects  him,  and  how  little  of  him  there  is  to 
shoot  at.     His  head  and  neck  are  there  in  profile,  it 
is  true,  but  then  comes  the  near  wing  incurved,  motion- 
less, each  feather  extended  laterally  towards  you,  and 
protecting  with   its   convex  surface  his  whole  body. 
The  other  wing  is  hidden  away  from  you  on  the  other 
side,  protected  again  by  the  body ;  the  legs  are  tucked 
up,  and  the  tail  goes  for  nothing.     It  follows  then,  as 
I  have  no  doubt  in  this  instance  the  feathers  of  the 
wing  will  deflect  the  pellets,  that  unless  you  break 
the  wing  bone,  which  is  also  pointed  towards  you,  and 
therefore  presents  really  an   infinitesimal  mark,  you 
have  only  the  head  and  neck  to  shoot  at.     These,  at 
thirty-five   or   forty   yards,  will  escape   being  vitally 
struck  in  a  large  proportion  of  instances.     When  you 
add   to   all   this    that   there   is   something   puzzling 
about  the  pace  and  downward  slope  of  the  bird's 
motion,  I  think  you  will  have  accounted  for  the  fre- 
quency of  misses  at  this  particular  moment  of  the 
pheasant's  flight.     You  will  observe  the  same  skim- 
ming pheasant  killed  regularly  and  easily  when  coming 


HO  W  TO   KILL    THEM  167 

towards  the  gun,  no  longer  protected  by  the  wing,  as 
I  have  described,  or,  in  fact,  at  any  angle  hut  when 
broadside  on  to  the  shooter. 

The  use  of  the  left  arm,  as  I  have  said  in  the 
volumes  on  Grouse  and  Partridge,  is  an  essential  study 
for  driven  birds  ;  it  is,  if  possible,  still  more  vital  in 
pheasant  shooting.  With  this  member  the  gun  has 
to  be  entirely  lifted  and  directed,  and  anything  like 
stiffness  in  the  fore-arm  or  shoulder  will  tell  at  once 
with  fatal  effect  on  your  performance  at  overhead 
pheasants.1  Practise  yourself,  whenever  you  can,  at 
raising  and  depressing  the  gun  in  every  direction  and 
at  every  angle,  with  a  very  tight  grip  of  the  barrels  in 
the  left  hand,  and  an  equally  slight  or  loose  hold  of  it 
in  the  right ;  using  the  left  not  only  as  the  motive 
power,  but  also  to  keep  the  gun  firm  against  the 
shoulder.  Anything  like  pulling  or  pushing  with  the 
right  arm  is  sure  to  result  in  bad  shooting. 

The  toss  necessary  to  kill  a  pheasant  coming 
straight  overhead  must  of  course  be  done  entirely  by 

1  For  any  rheumatism,  or  stiffness  of  the  shoulder  or  arm, 
the  simplest  and  most  effective  remedy  I  have  come  across  is 
pure  glacial  acetic  acid,  mixed  in  the  proportion  of  (about)  one 
part  of  acid  to  three  of  water.  Merely  wet  the  skin  with  this 
wherever  you  feel  the  rheumatism,  at  night,  and  in  the  morning 
before  going  out,  and  it  will  disperse  it  wonderfully.  It  is  not 
necessary  to  rub  it  in,  merely  let  it  dry  on  the  skin. 


1 68  SHOOTING    THE\  PHEASANT 

the  left  arm  ;  but  its  use  is  equally  important  in  order 
to  kill  one  passing  over  the  line  high  and  wide  to 
your  right  or  left.  This  is  a  difficult  and  easily 
missed  chance  ;  you  have  to  hold  a  long  way  in  front, 
sometimes  what  looks  like  twelve  or  fifteen  feet,  but 
even  when  you  have  judged  the  distance  with  accuracy 
everything  depends  upon  the  left  arm  being  raised  and 
held  with  sufficient  firmness  to  insure  the  gun  being 
kept  level  and  aimed  over  the  line  of  the  bird.  If  you 
do  not  believe  this,  try  some  day,  when  you  find  your- 
self missing  such  shots,  the  effect  of  giving  the  gun 
an  extra  toss,  and  deliberately  shooting,  as  it  appears 
to  you,  over  the  bird  altogether.  You  will,  if  your 
allowance  in  front  of  him  be  correct,  probably  kill 
him  stone  dead. 

The  calculation  of  how  far  to  hold  in  front  of  a 
high  or  wide  pheasant  must,  as  I  have  said  before,  be 
largely  instinctive,1  but  as  the  pace  of  these  birds, 
from  the  shortness  of  their  flight,  varies  less  than  that 
of  partridges  or  grouse,  you  may  acquire  very  toler- 
able proficiency  by  practice.  In  a  gale  of  wind, 
however,  a  cock  pheasant  when  well  under  way  flies 
probably  as  fast  as  any  game-bird  ;  and  many  people 
believe,  and  profess  to  have  proved,  that  he  flies  faster 
than  a  partridge.  I  have  tried,  but  without  success,  to 
1  See  The  Partridge,  vol.  i.  of  The  Fur  and  Feather  Series. 


HO IV  TO   KILL    THEM  169 

get  trustworthy  statistics  to  prove  this  ;  but  though  I 
am  not  inclined  to  disbelieve  it,  I  cannot  say  that  any 
absolutely  proved  case  has  been  found  to  support  it. 
The  partridge  certainly  looks  to  fly  the  faster  of  the 
two,  but  the  amount  of  pheasants  missed  or  struck 
too  far  back  shows  clearly  enough  that  the  latter  at 
any  rate  flies  much  faster  than  he  appears  to  do.  We 
know  that  the  capercailzie  is  usually  missed  by  novices 
from  the  same  deceptive  quality,  due  to  his  size  ;  and 
I  am  told  by  those  who  have  shot  the  great  bustard  in 
Spain,  that  the  same  thing  usually  happens  to  begin- 
ners there. 

The  pheasant  is  the  largest  bird,  excepting  the 
black-cock,  that  we  habitually  shoot ;  and  though  the 
latter,  from  the  stately  beat  of  his  wings,  is  especially 
apt  to  deceive  us  as  to  pace,  yet  the  pheasant's  tail 
amply  makes  up  for  his  quicker  wing  action,  and  I 
think  betrays  us  into  shooting  behind  him  oftener  than 
any  other  bird. 

Nothing  is  more  instructive  than  to  look  on 
during  a  big  stand  for  pheasants,  when  you  do  not 
know  the  order  in  which  the  other  guns  are  placed, 
and  to  try  and  pick  out  each  individual  gun  from 
your  knowledge  of  his  form,  as  you  see  the  birds 
pass  over  the  line.  It  is  wonderful  what  an  extra- 
ordinary difference  those  little  five  inches  make  ;  you 


i;o  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

can  detect  where  the  really  good  shot  is  standing  at 
once,  you  seem  almost  to  see  the  charge  strike  the 
bird  in  the  neck  and  forward  part  of  the  breast ;  his 
head  falls  back,  his  wings  shut  together  behind  his 
back,  and  without  a  kick  or  struggle  he  falls  straight 
and  heavily  on  to  his  breast-bone  on  the  earth.  Occa- 
sionally when  the  shot  is  if  anything  too  forward,  you 
see  him  struck  with  one  or  two  pellets  only,  under  the 
chin,  or  where  his  chin  would  be  if  he  possessed  one, 
and  as  they  pass  through  his  brain  he  spins  round  and 
comes  down  like  an  expiring  catherine-wheel.  How 
different  the  result  as  the  pheasant  passes  over  the 
inferior  performer  !  Bird  after  bird  flinching  and  winc- 
ing, but  passing  on  :  or  heavily  struck  in  the  hinder 
parts  he  comes  slowly  down,  at  a  more  obtuse  angle, 
his  head  and  neck  intact  but  in  the  agonies  of  death 
still  stretched  forth,  his  wings  still  half  extended,  his 
legs  kicked  out  and  his  tail  spread  and  broken.  Even- 
tually he  reaches  the  earth,  where,  unless  he  can  still 
run,  he  lies  suffering  till  his  neck  is  wrung  by  a 
merciful  keeper,  and  his  struggles  are  ended. 

Why  cannot  we  always  get  that  little  bit  more  for- 
ward which  makes  so  much  difference  in  the  skill  of 
the  man,  and  in  mercy  to  the  bird  ?  Frequently  it  is 
from  the  force  of  bad  habit — from  not  considering 
the  moving  silhouette  of  the  bird  against  the  sky  in 


HO  IV  TO   KILL    THEM  171 

the  manner  indicated  above — not  as  a  thing  to  be 
aimed  at,  but  intercepted;  frequently,  from  shooting 
too  soon  or  too  late  instead  of  at  the  killing  angle ; 
frequently,  nay,  always  with  the  man  whose  habitual 
form  is  good,  from  some  disorder  of  the  digestion, 
the  liver,  or  the  nerves.  To  shoot  well— it  cannot  be 
too  often  repeated — a  man  should  be  as  fit  as  though 
he  had  to  fight  for  his  life.  In  consideration  for  his 
host,  in  mercy  to  the  birds,  and  in  hope  of  satisfaction 
to  himself,  let  him  bear  in  mind  to  eat  lightly,  sleep 
well,  and  exceed  in  nothing.  To  shoot  badly,  besides 
being  an  unsightly  and  disappointing  performance,  is 
a  very  cruel  thing  to  the  birds,  and  in  the  case  of 
pheasants,  since  you  are  under  no  obligation  to  score 
heavily,  and  can  always  pick  your  shots,  is  really  un- 
necessary to  anyone  in  good  health,  and  who  does  not 
suffer  from  defective  vision. 

As  a  proof  of  this,  there  are  numbers  of  men 
who  have  taken  to  the  gun  late  in  life,  and  who, 
though  they  make  a  poor  hand  at  driven  partridges  or 
grouse,  at  a  wild  snipe  or  a  still  wilder  wood-pigeon, 
will  yet  perform  very  well  at  ordinary  pheasants.  They 
have  grasped  the  system,  they  take  things  coolly,  are 
not  jealous  or  over-keen,  they  select  carefully  the  shots 
they  feel  they  can  kill,  ignoring  those  they  cannot, 
and  it  is  only  a  practised  eye  that  would  detect — 


172  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


when  pheasants  are  coming  over  at  easy  killable  dis- 
tance—that  they  are  not  really  skilled  and  experienced 
sportsmen. 

I  would  venture  to  implore  those  who,  from  de- 
fective vision  or  lack  of  some  other  qualities,  find  that 
they  cannot  succeed  even  so  far  as  I  have  just  de- 
scribed, not  to  attempt  the  heavy  pheasant  shooting  of 
the  present  day.  They  may  take  their  pleasure  with 
grouse  and  partridges,  at  wild  walking-up  or  driving  ; 
they  will  kill  only  a  few,  but  they  will  wound  still  fewer, 
while  they  get  healthy  exercise  and  enjoyment.  But 
they  will  commit  the  cruelty  of  wounding  a  great 
many  pheasants  where  these  come  thick  and  easy, 
and  never  be  safe  or  satisfactory  participators  in  a 
pursuit  which,  unless  well  done,  had  better  not  be 
done  at  all. 

To  return  to  the  various  difficulties  and  how  to 
surmount  them.  If  you  are  standing  among  trees, 
where  it  is  hardly  possible  to  get  an  absolutely  clear 
shot,  you  will  never  do  any  good  by  hanging  on  and 
waiting  for  the  bird  to  cross  an  open  space.  I  do 
not  suggest  that  you  should  deliberately  fire  through 
a  thick  tree  top,  yet  you  must  more  or  less  ignore 
the  branches,  and  shoot  exactly  as  though  the  bird 
were  in  the  open.  When  you  are  in  really  good  form 
it  is  curious  how  seldom  you  will  find  the  twigs  and 


HOW   TO   KILL    THEM  173 


boughs  stop  the  charge  sufficiently  to  prevent  your  kill- 
ing your  bird  stone  dead.  On  the  other  hand,  if  he  have 
licence  to  move  a  little  back  or  forward,  an  old  hand 
will  vastly  improve  his  position  by  shifting  so  as  not 
to  stand  where  a  heavy  tree  top  is  exactly  at  the  spot 
which  he  sees  will  prove  the  killing  angle. 

Lastly,  there  is  but  a  word  or  two  to  be  said  about 
killing  pheasants  rising  before  you.  This  you  may 
be  called  upon  to  do  when  after  cocks  only,  in  which 
case  every  possible  chance  should  be  taken,  too 
many  being  generally  left  on  the  ground,  only  to 
fight  and  stray,  and  thus  reduce  the  producing  power 
of  your  wild  stock.  Or  you  may  be  out  for  what  I 
may  call  the  old-fashioned  October  day,  on  an  out- 
lying beat,  where  it  is  desirable  to  secure  as  many 
as  possible  of  the  roving  wild-bred  birds,  or  on  the 
fringe  of  the  moor  in  Scotland,  where  a  pheasant  is  a 
prize,  and  a  welcome  variety  to  the  larder. 

Pheasants,  from  the  great  strength  of  their  legs, 
in  dry  weather  at  least,  get  very  quickly  on  to  the 
wing,  and.  as  we  know,  fly  very  fast,  especially  the 
cocks.  Do  not  therefore  give  them  too  much  time 
when  flushed  before  you,  or  you  will  fail  to  bring 
them  down-  dead  ;  and  you  may  never  see  a  winged 
cock  again,  if  he  falls  in  thick  covert  where  there  is 
no  one  ahead  to  stop  him,  unless  you  have  a  very 


174  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

good  dog  and  can  afford  to  let  him  go  at  once.  But 
as  this  may  disturb  the  ground  for  a  quarter  of  a  mile 
ahead,  avoid  the  contingency  if  you  possibly  can. 
Here,  again,  to  aim  accurately  and  high  enough  is  the 
secret.  Shoot  just  over  his  back,  before  he  has  got 
too  far  if  he  be  going  straight  away  ;  once  he  has  got 
beyond  the  comfortable  distance  he  is  as  difficult  a 
creature  to  kill  quite  dead  as  a  hare  under  the  same 
conditions,  and  that  is  saying  a  great  deal.  Whether 
flying  sideways  or  straight  from  you  he  will  be  rising 
very  fast,  and  it  requires  just  a  second's  thought  to 
be  sure  not  to  miss  him  by  shooting  underneath. 

To  sum  up,  I  have  endeavoured  to  make  it  clear 
that  to  the  average  man  of  ordinary  athletic  habits 
and  good  eyesight,  it  should  not  be  a  matter  of  great 
difficulty  to  perform  creditably  at  pheasant  shooting. 
We  have  boldly  faced  the  question  of  the  artificiality 
of  the  sport  as  developed  to-day  ;  but  excepting  in 
wild  countries,  where  the  shy  or  ferocious  denizens  of 
the  region  have  to  be  pursued  by  the  unaided  astute- 
ness of  the  single-handed  hunter,  there  is  invariably  a 
large  element  of  this  quality  in  all  sports,  and  it  is  of 
no  use  to  cavil  thereat. 

It  is  absurd  any  longer  to  regard  the  pheasant  as 
a  rara  avis,  to  secure  which  the  exceptional  qualities 
of  an  eager  and  vigorous  hunter  are  required  ;  he 


HOW  TO   KILL    THEM  175 


cannot  even  be  compared  to  the  partridge,  the  grouse, 
or  the  black-cock  in  this  respect,  certainly  not  to  the 
wild  duck,  the  wood-pigeon,  or  the  Brent  goose ;  but 
he  is  a  perfectly  untameable,  strong-running  and 
strong-flying  bird  which,  from  his  attachment  to  his 
accustomed  haunts  and  feeding  ground,  can  and  does 
provide  a  form  of  artificial  sport  which  will  always  be 
popular  with  those  who  live  in  the  country  and  can 
afford  to  take  part  in  it. 

To  do  this  with  a  sufficient  amount  of  skill, 
courtesy,  and  self-control,  is,  I  maintain,  within  the 
reach  of  most  people.  Those  who  do  not  naturally 
possess  or  cannot  acquire  these  necessary  qualities,  I 
adjure  not  to  cultivate  pheasant  shooting,  for  while  it 
gives  them  but  little  pleasure  it  will  bring  them  more 
enemies  than  friends. 


1 76  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


CHAPTER   IV 

WILD-BRED    AND    HAND-REARED 

THE  foregoing  two  chapters  have  been  written 
exclusively  with  reference  to  the  shooting  of  woods 
by  organised  parties,  and  without  regard  to  the 
origin,  artificial  or  otherwise,  of  the  birds  to  be  dealt 
with. 

But  while  we  speak  of  pheasant  shooting,  in  its 
most  prevalent  and  best  known  form,  we  must  not 
neglect  mention  of  the  wild-bred  bird ;  little  as  he 
may  count  in  the  calculations  of  the  large  breeder  or 
habitual  sharer  in  the  making  of  heavy  bags  of  hand- 
reared  birds.  Still  less  must  we  ignore  the  existence  of 
the  occasional  or  unexpected  pheasant  which,  hatched 
and  reared  in  the  edges  of  detached  and  remote  coverts, 
or  possibly  on  the  fringe  of  a  prolific  grouse  moor, 
affords  to  so  many  a  welcome  surprise,  a  hot  pursuit, 
a  difficult  shot,  and  an  infrequent  delicacy. 

The  significance  of  the  term  'the  First,'  applied,  as 
it  is,  exclusively  to  the  month  of  September  and  to  the 


WILD-BRED  AND  HAND-REARED  177 


rival  partridge,  must  be  noted  as  showing  that  though 
on  the  eve  of  the  first  of  October  '  sportsmen  are 
anxiously  looking  forward  to  a  pop  at  the  long-tails ' 
may  be  the  favourite  conventional  phrase  of  the 
urban  journalist,  it  by  no  means  represents  the  state 
of  mind  of,  or  the  use  of  terms  affected  by,  those  who 
reside  in  the  country  where  the  '  long-tail '  abounds. 

Much  as  you  may  value,  and  keen  as  you  may  be 
to  secure,  your  wild-bred  birds,  whether  for  pleasure  or 
profit,  you  are  not  likely  to  obtain  much  by  pursuing 
them  on  the  first  of  October.  If  you  went  out  on 
this  date  to  secure  cocks  only  in  hedgerows,  osier 
beds,  or  spinneys,  you  would  no  doubt  bag  a  certain 
number  which,  at  a  later  date,  would — besides  being 
more  wary — find  it  easier  to  elude  you  among  the 
scantier  crops,  thinner  covert,  and  clearer  ditches  of 
winter.  But  those  who  go  out  to  kill  .off  cocks  ex- 
clusively at  this  period  of  the  season  are  rare,  and  the 
more  frequent  condition  of  the  pursuit  is  that  while, 
by  hook  or  by  crook,  the  old  cock  escapes,  the  im- 
mature brood  is  destroyed  in  detail  by  the  greedy  and 
inexperienced  gunner.  Should  one  haply  escape,  it 
is  a  young  and  forward  cock  bird,  which,  following  in 
the  footsteps  of  its  father,  runs  some  distance  ahead 
and  gets  up  out  of  shot. 

The  stock  on  outlying  or  rough  and  unmanageable 

N 


i;8  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

ground  must  be  kept  up,  and  may  be  largely  increased 
by  forbidding  the  destruction  of  any  young  bird,  cock 
or  hen,  in  the  early  days  of  the  season,  while  the  covert 
is  thick  and  the  days  are  still  long  and  balmy.1  Un- 
less the  brood  be  very  backward,  I  would  generally 
kill  the  old  hen,  as,  later  on,  she  will  be  difficult  to 
distinguish  from  the  younger  ones,  upon  which  you 
must  rely  for  future  progeny.  The  wild  hen  pheasant 
is  a  very  bad  mother,  and,  to  say  the  truth,  when  she 
has  hatched  and  reared  in  her  imperfect  and  dilatory 
/ashion  the  four  or  five  chicks  which  she  has  ma- 
naged to  save  out  of  fourteen  or  fifteen  good  eggs,  the 
sooner  she  is  hung  up  in  the  larder  the  better.  If  she 
be  the  parent  of  a  very  late  brood,  no  bigger  than  part- 
ridges during  the  first  week  in  October,  it  is  not  of  much 
consequence  whether  she  is  killed  or  not ;  the  young 
birds  are  not  likely  to  survive  the  winter,  whether  she 
be  dead  or  alive. 

But,  to  my  thinking,  an  old  cock  pheasant  should 
be  secured  wherever  and  whenever  you  can  get  him — 
during  open  shooting  in  the  fields,  or  beating  broken 

1  The  exception  to  this  would  be,  where  the  young  birds  are 
hatched  and  have  grown  up  on  the  very  border  of  your  ground, 
possibly  in  the  border  fence  itself,  and  where  you  have  a  greedy 
hard-killing  neighbour.  For  views  on  the  question  of  border 
birds  see  The  Partridge, 


WILD-BRED  AND  HAND-REARED          179 


ground  or  isolated  copses  and  coverts.1  There  is  no 
fear  whatever,  on  account  of  the  wary  instincts  and 
marvellous  running  powers  of  the  bird,  of  your  killing 
all  that  are  on  the  ground.  Even  if  you  did,  and  at 
the  end  of  the  season  you  have  left  hens  exclusively, 
cocks  will  travel  t6  them  from  great  distances  ;  while, 
if  you  leave  too  many  cocks,  they  will,  with  their 
polygamous  instincts  and  roving  disposition,  leave 
your  ground  in  search  of  some  place  where  they  may 
be  more  in  demand  among  the  ladies ;  and  if  they 
stay  with  you,  the  older  and  stronger  birds  will  fight 
off  the  younger,  which  would  be  the  most  prolific 
stock-getters. 

It  is  very  easy  to  say  kill  the  cocks  on  wild  and 
rough  ground,  but  not  so  easy  to  do  it.  I  can  only 
assure  you  that  if  you  will  leave  out  all  considerations 
of  quantity  or  weight  of  bag,  you  can  enjoy  many 
most  delightful  days  of  true  sport  after  the  thickest 
of  the  leaf  is  off,  pitting  your  own  intelligence  and 
that  of  your  dogs  against  the  wild  nature  and  evasive 
tricks  of  the  cock  pheasant. 

To  do  this  you  must,  of  necessity,  be  keen  and 
active ;  your  companion  or  assistants  must  be  as 

1  This,  of  course,  would  not  apply  to  a  turnip  field  close  to 
your  home  woods,  where  while  beating  for  partridges  you  might 
kill  enough  to  seriously  damage  your  covert  shooting. 

N  2 


i8o  SHOOTING   THE  PHEASANT 


ready  to  run  as  to  walk ;  you  must  have  knowledge 
or  instinct  to  guide  you  to  likely  ground  •  and  last, 
but  not  least,  you  must  possess  a  good  dog  or  couple 
of  dogs,  and  know  how  to  handle  them.  If  you  are 
familiar  with  your  ground,  and  it  is  broken  up  by 
irregularly  shaped  copses  and  plantations,  you  may 
do  much,  if  you  can  think  of  a  narrow  neck  where 
two  coverts  meet,  or  where  a  point  of  wood  or  under- 
growth juts  out  into  the  open,  by  sending  on  one  or 
two  of  your  limited  band  to  act  as  stops — to  station 
there,  and  to  keep  the  old  cocks  from  running  in  or 
out.  But  you  must  do  this  ere  ever  you  have  set  foot 
or  fired  a  shot  in  the  covert  or  thicket  you  are  going  to 
beat ;  and  the  man  or  boy  you  send  forward  must  be 
sound  of  wind  and  limb,  able  to  run  quickly,  one  who 
will  not  shirk  making  a  good  wide  circuit  to  get  to 
his  post,  and  who,  when  there,  will  '  cannily '  check 
the  forward  running  of  the  birds.  And  when  you 
get  close  to  the  end,  and  come  right  upon  the  two  or 
three  old  cock  pheasants  whom  it  has  cost  you  much 
trouble  and  hard  walking  to  out-manoeuvre,  he  must 
have  the  sense  to  become  suddenly  non-existent,  to 
lie  down  or  place  the  thick  trunk  of  a  tree  between 
your  barrels  and  himself,  or  he  may  baulk  you  after 
all  your  toil  and  trouble  by  being  in  the  direct  line  of 
your  solitary  shot. 


WILD-BRED  AND  HAND-REARED  181 


Whenever  you  come  across  a  youth  with  these  quali- 
ties, combined,  as  they  probably  will  be,  with  a  power 
of  marking  and  an  undying  love  for  dogs,  keep  him  in 
your  service,  and  promote  him  to  an  under  keeper's 
place  as  soon  as  possible — you  have  got  hold  of  the 
right  sort. 

In  wild  shooting  there  is  no  such  useless  and  un- 
productive personage  as  the  man  who,  whether  by 
bad  handling  of  his  dog,  or  by  the  noise  and  blun- 
dering which  accompany  his  own  progress,  is  always 
disturbing  the  ground  for  miles  in  front  of  him.  In 
no  case  is  this  more  evident  than  when  you  are  trying 
to  get  up  to  and  come  to  terms  with  wild  cock  phea- 
sants ;  and  you  may  be  certain  that  unless  those  with 
you  have  the  same  instinct  as  yourself  and  your  good 
dog,  that  is,  of  covering  the  ground  rapidly  and  silently, 
while  never  passing  or  neglecting  a  thick  or  likely 
piece  of  covert,  you  have  no  chance  against  these  active 
and  wily  birds.  Such  men  will  blunder  on  a  wood- 
cock or  two  ;  roar  at  an  occasional  rabbit,  which  you 
will  not  get  ;  and  flush  a  certain  number  of  terrified 
hen  pheasants  from  under  their  noisy  feet ;  but  the  bril- 
liant old  cock,  the  object  of  your  pursuit,  with  his  stout 
legs,  keen  eye,  and  strong  wings,  you  will  never  see 
unless,  haply,  he  takes  it  into  his  head  to  wing  his  way, 
apparently  unconcerned,  across  the  heath,  some  three 


1 82  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


hundred  yards  away  in  front  of  you,  to  some  piece  of 
covert  which  he  knows  you  have  neither  the  forces 
nor  the  energy  to  beat. 

Now  as  to  your  dog  :  the  difficulty  in  this  kind  of 
sport  usually  lies  here.  The  perfect  dog  for  the  work 
is  a  setter  (a  brace,  if  you  like),  but  he  must  not  be 
one  of  the  wide-ranging  sort,  such  as  you  would  em- 
ploy on  a  moor  where  grouse  are  scarce.  He  must 
set  about  his  work  more  like  a  spaniel,  and  must  have 
a  good  nose  and  be  a  true  hunter,  that  he  may  road 
the  running  bird  in  front  of  you.  He  may  have  to 
do  this  where  the  country  is  all  open,  though  the 
covert  may  be  thick — that  is,  in  such  districts  as  the 
New  Forest,  or  the  broken  ground  below  the  moors 
so  common  in  Scotland — for  a  quarter  of  a  mile  or 
more  ;  and,  though  he  will  occasionally  digress  should 
he  strike  a  fresh  scent,  he  must  be  of  the  persevering 
kind  which  will  come  back  or  can  be  easily  got  back 
to  the  line.  Many  checks  you  will  experience,  but  by 
patience  and  trouble,  and  making  casts  to  recover 
the  line,  you  will  be  able  at  last  to  run  down  your 
cock  pheasant  until  the  dog  can  stand  to  him  steadily 
in  some  thick  place  where  he  has  decided  to  squat, 
and  you  can  walk  up  and  kill  him  easily. 

If  the  pursuit  take  place  exclusively  in  very  thick 
covert,  underbrush,  gorse,  and  the  like,  a  spaniel  will 


WILD-BRED   AND  HAND-REARED  183 

suit  better  than  a  setter,  as  the  size  of  the  latter  is 
much  against  him  in  such  ground  ;  but  in  either  case 
you  will  want  a  steady,  trustworthy  dog  which  should, 
if  possible,  retrieve  as  well.1  The  difficulty  about  the 
spaniel  is  that  he  is  more  than  likely  to  dash  in  upon 
the  squatting  cock  pheasant  before  you  have  time  to 
come  up  and  take  the  shot,  whereas  the  setter  on 
finding  himself  close  to  his  game  would  stand.  But 
if  you  can  keep  with  the  spaniel  he  is  the  best  in  thick 
wood,  while  the  setter  will  do  more  for  you  on  broken 
ground,  where  a  good  deal  of  ranging  has  to  be  got 
through  before  you  come  to  a  find. 

Although  I  am,  generally  speaking,  averse  to 
killing  pheasants  at  all  in  early  October,  yet  there 
are  always  places,  such  as  small  isolated  spinneys  or 
copses,  which  do  not  furnish  a  whole  day's  shooting, 
and  which  it  would  not,  consequently,  be  worth  making 
a  day  for  on  their  account  alone.  These  may  be  taken 
early  in  the  season,  together  with  a  few  partridge  drives 
or  walks. 

But  of  all  errors  there  is  none  greater  than  to 
spoil  a  good  day's  partridge  driving  by  going  out  of 
your  way,  at  your  keeper's  request,  in  order  to  '  make 

1  The  spaniel  is  very  apt  to  be  hard-mouthed.  I  would 
therefore  recommend  you  to  let  him  carry  a  cock  pheasant  as 
short  a  distance  as  possible,  especially  if  it  be  a  winged  bird. 


1 84  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


sure '  of  an  odd  brood  or  two  of  half-grown  pheasants 
in  a  small  covert,  thick  with  leaf.  I  have  seen  this 
mistake  made  often.  While  you  are  engaged  upon 
this  sort  of  pretence  of  covert  shooting  you  lose  your 
partridges,  which  run  together  again,  or  make  back 
on  to  their  own  ground,  and  the  result,  so  far  as  con- 
cerns the  pheasants,  is  that  you  do  what  I  have  de- 
scribed above  :  you  kill  a  few  immature  pullets,  which 
afford  the  most  pottering,  poking  shots,  and  the  old 
cocks  or  full-grown  young  ones  escape  you  altogether. 
You  had  far  better,  in  truth,  leave  such  places  alone 
altogether,  and  treat  the  birds  in  them  as  so  much 
extra  stock  for  next  year,  trusting  to  luck  to  come 
upon  the  old  gentlemen  in  their  wanderings  for  acorns 
as  you  go  over  your  partridge  ground  a  second  time. 
If,  however,  you  live  in  a  land  much  beset  by  poachers, 
and  the  covert  be  a  lonely  one,  far  from  a  keeper's 
house,  you  must  make  a  day  there  before  the  leaf  is 
fairly  off. 

Nothing  strikes  one  more  in  Norfolk,  especially  in 
the  heath  district,  than  the  prevalence  of  pheasants 
everywhere.  Every  big  fern  brake,  or  little  copse 
or  spinney,  on  or  adjoining  the  heaths,  holds  its  little 
quota  of  these  birds,  and  it  adds  greatly  to  the  charm 
of  a  partridge  drive  when  it  is  varied  by  a  few  rocket- 
ing pheasants  out  of  the  belt  you  are  standing  by,  or 


WTLD-BRED   AND  HAND-REARED          185 


when  they  rise  high  off  the  heath  and  come  over  with 
the  partridges,  and  quite  as  fast. 

I  well  remember  the  first  drive  I  ever  had  at 
Elvedon,  with  the  late  Maharajah  Dhuleep  Singh  ; 
thirty-six  partridges  and  forty-five  pheasants  fell  to 
my  own  gun,  besides  a  few  hares,  in  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  from  taking  our  places.  The  late  October 
days  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  especially  where  there  is 
heath,  are  among  the  most  fascinating  to  be  got  in 
England.  The  mixed  days  to  be  had  at  the  same 
season  in  the  lowlands  of  Scotland,  where  grouse  and 
blackgame,  '  capers  '  or  woodcock,  alternate  with  the 
rocketing  pheasant,  are  a  luxury  of  varied  shooting. 
But  the  pheasants  are  all  got  at  these  places  in  prac- 
tically the  same  manner,  that  is,  by  inclosing  and 
driving  a  good  stretch  of  country,  moorland,  or  heath 
and  covert  together,  with  a  strong  line  of  beaters,  and 
forcing  the  pheasants  along  with  driven  grouse,  part- 
ridges or  blackgame,  to  the  guns  in  position.  This  is 
almost  the  only  class  of  October  shooting  at  pheasants, 
the  leaf  being  still  thick  in  the  coverts,  which  can  be 
described  as  worth  having.  Those  who  have  not  such 
favourable  ground,  where  each  wood  is  isolated  and 
must  be  taken  in  the  orthodox  manner,  will  do  better 
to  leave  them  till  a  little  later  on. 

Of    the    hand-reared    bird    I    may    offer    some 


186  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


general  observations  in  supplement  of  what  has  been 
so  exhaustively  written  elsewhere.  The  nesting, 
egg  sampling,  setting,  hatching,  rearing,  food,  treat- 
ment and  disease,  together  with  all  details  ofpheasan- 
tries,  pens,  coops,  runs,  &c.,  would  make,  and  have 
made,  volumes  longer  than  the  prescribed  limits  of 
this  one.  There  are  a  host  of  books  in  which  the 
experiences  of  this  kind  of  poultry  yard — for  it  is  no- 
thing else — have  been  dealt  with  up  to  date ;  but  I 
propose  to  add  a  very  few  hints  which  are  the  out- 
come of  my  own  observation,  and  in  which  I  will 
endeavour  to  indicate  the  general  and  important 
principles  on  which  pheasant  rearing  should  be  carried 
on,  rather  than  the  details,  since  the  latter  must  vary 
largely  according  to  the  locality,  the  expenditure  of 
the  owner,  and  the  object  he  has  in  view. 

The  first  thing  to  realise  is  that  the  production  of 
hand-reared  pheasants  is  entirely  a  matter  of  pounds, 
shillings,  and  pence.  In  order  not  to  waste  your 
money,  supposing  that  you  can  afford  to  choose  your 
place,  you  must  do  so  in  a  country  where  the  condi- 
tions are  proportionate  to  the  amount  of  pheasants 
you  wish  to  rear.  You  will  find  infinite  variety  of 
locality  and  scenery.  For  instance,  if  your  intention 
and  ambition  be  to  kill  8,000  to  10,000  pheasants  in 
the  season,  that  is,  if  you  want  to  do  somewhere  about 


WILD-BRED   AND  HAND  REARED          187 

a  'best  on  record,'  and  have  the  heaviest  shooting  in 
England,  you  can  do  it  in  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Cam- 
bridgeshire, or  possibly  Essex  (on  the  light  land). 
You  may  do  it  in  Lancashire,  if  you  can  get  ground 
like  Croxteth  or  Knowsley,1  and  possibly  in  York- 
shire ;  but  it  will  cost  you  more  in  the  last-named 
two  counties. 

Again,  it  would  undoubtedly  be  possible  to  reach 
a  maximum  result  in  Hampshire  or  Dorsetshire,  while 
the  records  of  Hawkstone 2  show  what  can  be  done 
in  Shropshire,  and  most  probably  in  Staffordshire  and 
Cheshire  also.  In  certain  parts  of  Nottinghamshire 
and  Northamptonshire  there  is  good  ground,  and 
again  in  Worcestershire  and  Warwickshire,  though 
perhaps  not  good  enough  for  a  maximum,  and  I 
know  that  in  parts  of  Devon,  Herts,  Sussex,  and 
even  Surrey  large  quantities  have  been  successfully 
reared  and  kept. 

In  many  parts  of  Scotland,  especially  on  the  east 
coast,  it  would  be  difficult  to  fix  a  limit  to  the  num- 
ber of  pheasants  that  might  be  turned  out.  In  East 

1  The  Earl  of  Sefton's  and  the  Earl  of  Derby's  respectively. 

-  Lord  Hill's  estate,  near  Shrewsbury,  where  over  2,000 
pheasants  have  several  times  been  killed  in  one  day.  Since  the 
above  was  written,  Lord  Hill  has  died,  to  the  regret  of  all  who 
knew  him.  As  Rowland  Hill  he  was  one  of  the  best  shots  of  the 
day,  both  at  game  and  pigeons,  and  the  most  courteous  and 
genial  of  men  in  either  field. 


1 88  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


Lothian  those  who  know  the  most  favoured  ground 
the  best  consider  it  superior  even  to  Norfolk  and 
Suffolk.  But  the  matter  has  to  be  differently  ma- 
naged there,  and  special  qualities  of  tact  and  con- 
sideration are  necessary  for  the  interests  of  what  is 
probably  the  best  farmed  region  of  the  British  Islands. 
Those  who  are  acquainted  with  the  Scotch  farmer 
will  know  at  once  what  I  mean,  and  appreciate  the 
difference  between  raising  game  on  land  in  his  occu- 
pation and  on  the  heath  lands  of  Norfolk. 

You  could  produce  your  result  much  more  cheaply 
in  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  and  Cambridgeshire  than  in  any 
of  the  other  counties  named,  although  in  some  parts 
of  these,  where  crops  are  scarce,  much  artificial  feed- 
ing is  necessary  ;  and,  next  to  these,  I  should  say  in 
Hants  or  Dorset.  Against  this  you  must  consider 
that  you  will  have  to  pay  a  higher  shooting  rent  than 
in  the  latter  counties. 

But,  again,  if  you  are  the  owner,  and  wish  to  have 
very  heavy  shooting,  either  for  your  own  amusement, 
or  in  order  to  raise  the  reputation  of  your  place  as  a 
game  estate,  it  may  and  ought  in  these  days-  granted 
you  are  on  favourable  soil — to  prove  a  very  good 
investment  to  go  in  for  profitable  sport  on  a  large 
scale  with  really  careful  management. 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  your  estate  is  in  less  favoured 


WILD- BRED  AND  HAND-REARED  189 


regions — say,  upon  cold  clay,  or  where  the  coverts  are 
almost  entirely  surrounded  by  grass  land,  in  a  rigor- 
ous climate  or  on  high  ground — you  can  never  make 
your  pheasant  shooting  even  approach  the  point  of 
cheapness  or  profit,  but  must,  since  the  conditions  will 
be  still  more  artificial,  always  submit  to  a  very  heavy 
outlay. 

The  description  given  by  the  old  huntsman,  chaff- 
ing the  gamekeeper  of  a  shot  at  a  pheasant — 'Up 
gets  a  sovereign,  off  goes  a  penny,  and  down  comes 
half  a  crown  ' — although  it  probably  exaggerates  the 
cost  of  production  of  the  bird,  will  go  very  near  repre- 
senting the  figures  of  your  balance  sheet  in  a  sterile 
game  country. 

Generally  speaking,  it  will  pay  much  better  to  rear 
on  a  heavy  scale  than  on  a  light  one.  Many  keepers 
and  owners  have  discovered  this,  and  it  accounts  in  a 
great  measure  for  the  enormous  increase  in  pheasants 
throughout  England  and  Scotland.  The  same  staff 
of  men  employed  as  keepers,  watchers,  and  beaters 
where  the  results  are  poor,  and  the  shooting  is  roughly 
described  as  '  bad,'  would,  as  a  rule,  suffice  to  look 
after  three  times  the  amount  of  game  ;  and  thus  the 
wages  item,  together  with  the  larger  amount  of  value 
in  game  realised,  more  than  counterbalances  increase 
of  the  bill  for  food  and  appliances. 


190  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


The  fact  that  the  whole  thing  becomes  more 
popular,  because  it  circulates  more  money,  in  the 
neighbourhood,  may  also  be  held  to  weigh  somewhat 
in  this  connection.  I  have  always  noticed  that  where 
game  is  very  extensively  reared,  and  the  whole  thing 
done  on  a  liberal  and  plenteous  scale,  it  is  more 
popular  with  the  humbler  surroundings.  Poaching  is 
less,  for  the  game  is  looked  after  in  a  thorough  and 
business-like  manner,  while  the  minor  offences  by 
those  who  are  not  professional  poachers  are  more 
frequently  and  readily  condoned.  Everyone  benefits 
somehow  by  the  result  in  the  neighbourhood  of  a 
great  game  estate,1  and  it  is  consequently  to  every- 
one's interest  to  be  friendly  with  the  keepers,  and 
assist  rather  than  thwart  them  in  their  duty. 

This  brings  me  to-  the  second  important  point  : 
the  character  and  capacity  of  your  keepers.  I  have 
already  suggested  in  a  former  chapter  that  the  game- 
keeper of  the  future  will  have  to  be  a  man  of  a  superior 
class  to  the  majority  of  those  this  generation  has  been 
used  to.  But  this  may  not  insure  his  honesty,  and 
there  is  no  department  of  the  management  of  an  estate 
in  which  the  owner  may  be  more  easily  robbed  than 

1  I  am  not  here,  of  course,  advocating  the  over-preservation 
of  ground-game.  Rabbits  should  never  be  kept  in  large  quan- 
tities, excepting  on  ground  that  is  warrened,  or  in  the  owner's 
own  hands. 


WILD-BRED   AND  HAND-REARED          191 

in  the  game.  Honest  keepers  always  have  game,  but 
again  they  sometimes  waste  money  lavishly. 

Your  head  man  must  keep  a  strict  and  honour- 
able watch  upon  the  corn  account,  and  all  the  minor 
charges  for  sitting  hens  and  food  of  all  sorts,  which  his 
underlings  may  manipulate  to  their  own  advantage. 
Where  there  is  fraudulent  management  a  vast  amount 
of  corn  is  supposed  to  be  bought  by  the  owner  which 
never  reaches  the  pheasants,  and  many  other  things 
are  purchased  in  larger  quantities  and  at  higher  prices 
than  they  should  be. 

The  temptation  to  sell  eggs,  and  game,  dead  or 
alive,  is  also  very  great,  and  with  eggs  especially  is 
more  often  yielded  to  than  is  supposed.  There  is  a 
very  free  market  in  pheasants'  eggs,  and  it  would  be 
impossible  to  prevent  the  sale  of  them,  nor  could  you 
check  it  by  a  consensus  of  righteous  opinion,  as  is 
undoubtedly  done  to  a  certain  extent  with  partridge's 
eggs.  But  the  simplest  check  of  all  is  to  judge  your 
man  by  the  results  on  his  beat.  If  to  your  certain 
knowledge  he  had  so  many  hens  on  the  ground  on 
February  i,  has  had  so  much  money,  or  its  equivalent 
in  food  and  appliances,  as  should  produce,  at  a  fair 
estimate  considering  the  season,  so  many  pheasants, 
and  if  when  you  go  to  shoot  his  wood  these  pheasants 
are  not  there,  dismiss  him.  Do  not  drive  him  to 


192  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

worse  courses  by  taking  away  his  character,  but  give 
him  the  lesson  which  may  be  the  turning  point  in  his 
life,  and  suit  yourself  with  another  man  who  can  and 
does  produce  adequate  results. 

A  large  number  of  people,  in  this  matter  of  rear- 
ing game,  as  in  so  many  other  things,  ruin  their  depen- 
dants by  their  own  carelessness,  ignorance,  or  dislike 
to  taking  any  sort  of  trouble.  They  shoot  their  woods 
lightly,  spare  the  hens  the  second  time  over,  and 
leave  an  enormous  stock  of  the  latter  at  the  end  of 
the  season  ;  yet  they  are  quite  content  when  the  next 
year  comes  round  to  find  only  about  half  as  many 
pheasants  to  deal  with  as  this  number  of  hens  ought 
to  have  produced. 

For  instance,  one  hundred  hens  are  left  in  and 
about  a  certain  wood.  Of  these  let  us  suppose  ten  to 
die  or  turn  out  barren  for  some  reason  or  other.  The 
remaining  ninety,  in  a  fair  game  country,  should  lay- 
fifteen  eggs  apiece  as  an  average.  This  gives  1,350 
eggs,  of  which,  with  good  management,  1,000  should, 
excepting  in  a  very  unfavourable  year,  be  produced 
for  shooting  purposes.  Add  to  these  the  original 
ninety  and  what  wild  cocks  were  left,  say  thirty — and 
you  find  that  when  you  go  to  shoot  your  wood  there 
should  be  1,120  pheasants,  more  or  less,  to  deal  with. 
If  all  goes  well  you  ought  to  kill  650  or  700  of  these 


WILD-BRED  AND  HAND-REARED  193 


the  first  time  over ;  yet  the  majority  of  owners  who 
have  left  one  hundred  hens  would  think  they  had 
done  well  if  they  killed  300  or  400  pheasants  the 
following  year.  1  have  knocked  off  a  very  liberal  dis- 
count for  accident  and  the  uncertainties  of  rearing. 
For  a  more  liberal  estimate  per  hen  you  may  refer  to 
Mr.  Tegetmeier's  work,  p.  57,  wherein  he  quotes  an 
authority  who  gathered  1,500  eggs  from  forty  hens 
one  year,  and  1,600  from  forty- one  hens  the  following 
year. 

The  owner  of  a  large  game  preserve  is  usually  but 
little  on  the  spot  between  April  and  July,  when  the 
serious  business  of  laying,  hatching,  and  rearing  is 
taking  place,  and  it  is  absolutely  essential  that,  having 
secured  a  head  keeper  whom  he  can  trust,  he  should 
rely  upon  him  to  look  after  his  underlings,  and  judge 
the  whole  matter  fairly  by  results.  One  of  the  best 
known  game  preservers  in  the  country  always  engages 
his  keepers  on  the  understanding  that  if  a  cer- 
tain number  of  pheasants  are  not  forthcoming  on 
his  beat  they  have  to  leave  without  further  argument. 
In  this  instance  the  owner,  who  has  had  large  ex- 
perience, is  a  very  competent  judge  of  what  each  beat 
should  produce,  and  his  keepers  know  there  is  no 
trifling  with  him  or  the  system. 

All  the  best  authorities  have  a  great  belief  in 

o 


194  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

frequent  change  of  blood  ;  you  should,  therefore,  if 
you  have  a  sufficient  stock  left  not  to  require  to  buy 
eggs,  exchange  some  with  any  of  your  friends  living 
some  distance  off.  Also  mix  the  eggs  of  the  hens  in 
your  pheasantry  with  those  gathered  from  wild  nests, 
never  losing  sight  of  the  fact  that  change  and  mixture 
of  blood  is  the  greatest  factor  of  all  in  keeping  from 
year  to  year  a  healthy  and  numerous  flock  of  birds. 

The  gathering  of  eggs  from  wild  nests  demands 
considerable  skill,  care,  and  tact.  It  is  a  great  mis- 
take on  most  estates  to  gather  up  every  egg.  When 
laid  in  favourable  and  secure  places,  a  certain  pro- 
portion only  should  be  lifted ;  and,  again,  let  not  the 
suicidal  and  greedy  policy  of  skimming  everything 
from  near  the  boundary  be  followed,  unless  it  be  close 
to  a  town  or  village,  the  resort  of  poachers  and  tramps, 
or  alongside  of  a  quantity  of  small  freeholds.  This 
department  of  hand-rearing  is  most  fully  and  ably  dealt 
with  in  the  Badminton  Library  ('  Field  and  Covert ' 
volume).  But  it  should  be  added  that  some  of  the 
best  Norfolk  keepers,  on  estates  where  expense  is  not 
spared,  are  of  opinion  that  no  eggs  should  be  left  in  wild 
nests  ;  that  they  can  produce  a  better  proportion  to 
the  gun  from  the  eggs  when  taken  up  and  dealt  with  in 
the  pheasantry,  and  that  wild-bred  birds  are  not  worth 
consideration  where  you  can  afford  to  rear  on  a  large 


WILD-BRED  AND  HAND-REARED  195 

scale.  Against  this  Lord  Walsingham  tells  me  that 
he  has  killed  from  2,000  to  2,500  wild-bred  birds  in  a 
season  on  the  Merton  estate.1  This  is  one  of  the 
points  which  will  vary  on  different  estates,  according 
to  the  nature  of  the  nesting  ground,  the  prevalence  of 
egg  stealers,  and  the  views  of  the  head  keeper  or 
manager. 

But  in  a  cold  and  unfavourable  country,  expense 
or  not,  you  will  do  very  little  with  wild  birds,  and  had 
better  secure  every  egg  you  can. 

If  you  have  a  choice  of  coverts,  belts,  and  woods, 
you  must,  by  various  experiments,  ascertain  which  of 
them  will  really  hold  pheasants.  There  are  some 
woods  which  '  lie  warm,'  where  it  is  no  difficulty  to 
keep  the  birds  you  stock  them  with,  and  which  yield 
besides  a  varying  but  useful  proportion  of  wild-bred 
birds.  These  are  not  always  large  woods,  nor  always 
those  you  would  expect ;  but  never  be  misguided  by 
the  ignorance  of  a  keeper  or  by  tradition  into  filling 
with  pheasants,  year  after  year,  a  wood  in  which  they 
will  not  naturally  stay. 

How  often  do  you  hear  that  the  birds  will  always 
draw  down  to  such  and  such  a  covert,  or  stray  over  to 

1  At  Beaulieu  in  Hampshire,  belonging  to  Lord  Montagu  of 
Beaulieu,  one  of  the  finest  sporting  places  in  England,  the  same 
number  of  wild-bred  birds  has  been  killed  in  the  season. 

02 


196  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

such  another  !  If  so,  take  those  coverts  which  they 
will  draw  or  stray  to  rather  than  the  one  they  stray 
from  to  put  your  stock  into.  Improve  or  add  to 
the  coverts,  instead  of  obstinately  trying  year  by  year 
to  prevent  the  birds  following  their  own  superior 
instinct  as  to  what  suits  them.  Exceptions  must 
occur,  of  course,  as  where  the  wood  that  attracts  them 
is  situated  on  your  boundary,  or  is  of  such  a  nature  that 
you  cannot  get  a  good  day's  shooting  out  of  it ;  but 
in  these  cases  you  must  deal  with  the  difficulties  in 
other  ways.  If  in  a  certain  covert  you  always  find 
more  birds  than  you  expect,  make  it  at  once  into 
one  of  your  principal  days  ;  and  if,  on  the  other 
hand,  your  home  wood  or  any  other  which  has  for 
years  been  traditionally  one  of  the  '  big  days,'  always 
results  in  disappointment,  give  it  up  entirely  as  a 
stronghold  of  pheasants,  and  shoot  others  of  less 
apparent  importance.  The  habits  of  the  birds  will 
prove  a  very  safe  guide. 

For  your  pheasantries  or  pens  more  or  less  open 
ground — that  is,  wit]?  plenty  of  light — must  be  selected. 
It  is  also  of  paramount  importance  that  they  should  be 
on  well-drained  soil,  and  on  a  slope  facing  south  or 
south-west.  Without  these  essential  conditions  it  is 
absolutely  impossible  to  succeed,  while  they  apply 
equally  to  the  ground  on  which  the  young  birds  are 


WILD-BRED   AND  HAND-REARED          197 

put  out  with  the  coops.  This  should  be  shifted  every 
year. 

It  follows  that  you  must  not  hamper  your  keeper 
by  not  allowing  him  suitable  places  for  these  objects. 
Even  if  you  have  to  pay  for  it,  it  is  wise  to  let  him, 
granted  he  be  an  experienced  man,  have  such  ground 
for  his  pheasantries  and  young  birds  as  he  wishes. 
This  must — for  the  young  birds,  at  least — be  fresh 
every  year,  as  just  remarked,  and  must  not  be  cold 
or  damp.  Nothing  so  injuriously  affects  the  health 
of  all  gallinaceous  birds  as  to  have  their  feet  constantly 
on  wet  and  cold  ground. 

Personally,  I  am  against  the  formation  of  phea- 
santries of  such  a  permanent  structure  that  birds  are 
penned  in  them  on  the  same  ground  for  several  con- 
secutive years  ;  but  some  great  authorities,  including 
Jackson  of  Sandringham,  believe  that  the  best  results 
may  equally  be  obtained  in  this  way. 

H.R.H.  the  Prince  of  Wales  has  just  sanctioned 
the  erection  of  a  pheasantry,  which,  for  a  permanent 
one,  is  probably  the  most  perfect  ever  seen.  The 
corrugated  iron  fence  which  surrounds  it  rests  upon 
low  concrete  walls,  which  go  down  a  long  way  into  the 
ground,  so  that  the  inclosure  is  practically  vermin- 
proof.  There  are  two  large  runs,  each  nearly  an  acre 
in  extent,  with  bushes  in  the  centre,  and  in  these  runs 


198  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


from  October  or  November  until  February  may  be 
seen  some  500  or  600  hens,  all  in  the  best  condition 
and  plumage.  In  the  latter  month  these  are  divided 
out,  in  the  proportion  of  five  hens  to  a  cock,  into  the 
numerous  small  pens. 

When  all  these  birds  are  finally  removed,  after 
the  laying  and  hatching  season,  the  ground  in  each 
pen  is  dug  up,  lime  freely  used,  and  crops  or  grass 
sown.  Of  course,  a  permanent  pheasantry  can  only 
be  carried  on  in  a  healthy  state  from  year  to  year 
by  this  system  ;  and  I  believe  greatly  in  the  con- 
stant application  of  lime,  grave!,  and  sand  to  the 
surface  of  the  soil,  which  must  also  be  thoroughly 
well  drained. 

Pens  open  at  the  top,  which  are  accessible  to  the 
wild  cock,  are  advocated  by  some ;  but  I  confess  to  a 
preference  for  the  certainty  of  egg  fertilisation  which 
is  got  from  healthy  cocks  confined  with  the  hens 
Where  the  pheasantry  is  well  attended  to,  and  every 
provision  made  for  the  natural  food,  habits,  and 
wants  of  the  species,  pheasants  should  lose  neither 
weight  nor  vigour  in  this  temporary  and  luxurious 
confinement. 

I  strongly  advocate  the  employment  of  women  to 
manage  pheasantries,  and  look  after  sitting  hens  and 
young  birds.  They  must,  of  course,  be  under  the 


WILD-BRED   AND  HAND-REARED  199 

direction  of  the  experienced  head  keeper  ;  but  for 
delicate  handling  of  young  birds,  for  treating  their 
diseases,  preserving  the  regularity  of  their  feeding, 
and  for  the  maternal  instinct  which  should  watch 
over  them  from  the  day  of  the  laying  of  the  first  egg 
until  they  roost  freely  on  the  trees,  I  firmly  believe 
that  the  matronly  instinct  of  an  intelligent  woman 
will  be  found  far  better  than  the  rougher  care  of  the 
most  conscientious  male  keeper. 

The  latter  will  have  full  employment  in  keeping 
down  the  vermin,  procuring  ants'  eggs,  night  watching, 
and  the  like  ;  but  a  woman  will  prove  the  best  for 
the  actual  handling  and  management  of  the  birds. 

In  conclusion,  in  rearing  pheasants,  as  in  every 
other  branch  of  the  cultivation  or  pursuit  of  animals 
by  man,  let  the  latter  show  his  intelligence  by  invari- 
ably giving  way  to,  or  assisting,  the  superior  instinct 
of  the  bird  for  his  own  good.  He  must  run  and 
scratch,  and  have  varied  and  healthy  food ;  give 
him  loose  earth  to  scratch  at,  plenty  of  room,  and  the 
variety,  including  green  food,  that  he  requires.  He 
will  not  naturally  stay  long  on  cold,  damp,  or  clayey 
ground  ;  give  him  the  contrary  ;  give  him  shelter 
from  rain  and  immunity  from  vermin  and  from  sudden 
frights.  In  short,  reproduce  in  confinement  as  nearly 
as  possible  the  essentials  of  health  in  his  wild  life. 


SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


When  dealing  with  the  young  birds,  since  you 
take  them  from  the  natural  mother,  and  can  give 
them  only  a  foster  mother  confined  to  a  small  run  or 
coop,  you  must  be  careful  to  place  them  under  the 
conditions  which  the  former  would  find  for  them  in 
the  wild  state — ground  warm  and  dry  to  their  feet, 
shelter  to  protect  them  from  winged  and  other 
vermin,  and  from  cutting  spring  blasts  or  drenching 
showers,  on  some  gentle  slope,  warmed  and  dried 
after  the  storms  by  air  and  sunshine,  while  you  never 
relax  your  watchful  care  to  prevent  the  spread  of 
disease  likely  to  occur  from  the  close  contact  of  large 
numbers,  and  to  repel  the  attacks  of  the  many  pre- 
datory creatures  which  assail  them. 

In  order  to  keep  them,  and  realise  from  them  in 
the  proper  quantities,  let  the  woods  in  which  you 
turn  them  out  be  such  as  by  experience  you  know  will 
suit  their  habits.  There  should  be  good  access  to  arable 
ground  and  crops,  or  artificial  patches  cultivated  for 
their  benefit ;  covert  nicely  alternated  between  free 
spaces  of  dry  ground  under  branching  trees  for  them 
to  run  and  scratch  in,  and  warm  thickets  to  squat 
or  shelter  under  from  the  approach  of  danger  or  the 
onslaught  of  wintry  blasts  ;  here  and  there  clusters  of 
dark  protecting  evergreen  trees  for  them  to  roost 
securely  in  at  night. 


WILD-BRED  AND  HAND-REARED          201 

If  you  and  your  keepers  abide  by  these  general 
rules,  supplemented  by  the  most  practical  of  the 
details  to  be  found  in  the  best  books,1  to  all 
of  which  your  keepers  should  have  free  and  con- 
stant access,  you  will  be  able  without  difficulty,  and 
at  a  proper  and  reasonable  cost,  to  produce  the 
number  of  hand-reared  birds  which  the  size  and 
character  of  your  coverts,  and  the  nature  of  the  soil 
prevailing  on  your  estate,  entitle  you  to  expect. 

1  Books  which  should  form  the  'gun-room  or  keeper's 
library,'  and  which  you  should  provide  for  their  constant  use 
and  reference,  might  include  : 

The  Gamekeeper  at  Home  ~\ 

„,      .  >  By  Richard  Jefferies. 

The  Amateur  Poacher       J     }  J 

The  Forester.     By  Brown  and  Nisbet. 
British  Forest  Trees.     By  Nisbet. 

Pheasants  ;  their  Natural  History  and  Practical  Manage- 
ment.    By  W.  B.  Tegetmeier. 
The  Badminton  Library.     Shooting,  vols.  i.  and  ii. 
Practical  Game-Preserving.     By  Carnegie. 
Letters  to  Young  Shooters.     By  Sir  R.  Payne-Gallwey. 
Birds  of  Norfolk.     By  Stevenson. 
Dog  Breaking.     By  Hutchinson. 
,,  „  ,,   Stonehenge. 


CHAPTER   V 

POLICY    AND    PROTECTION 

CERTAIN  points  may  be  suggested  for  the  protection 
of  a  stock  of  game,  attention  to  which  may  tend  to 
neutralise  the  efforts,  if  not  to  minimise  the  number, 
of  the  poaching  fraternity. 

The  poet,  as  we  know,  is  born,  not  made  ;  the 
cook  also,  at  least  in  so  far  as  roasting  is  concerned, 
lays  claim  to  congenital  genius.  But  the  poacher, 
though  often  '  born,'  is  equally  often  '  made '  by  cir- 
cumstances. The  born  poacher  is,  in  reality,  a  keen 
sportsman  and  lover  of  nature,  and  as  such  we,  who 
are  or  would  like  to  be  considered  both,  cannot  but 
feel  sympathy  with  and  secretly  admire  him.  Only  we 
selfishly  wish  that  he  had  been  born  in  some  part  of  the 
country  remote  from  our  own  property,  and  would 
exercise  his  admirable  instincts  upon  somebody  else's 
pheasants  and  coverts  rather  than  our  own. 

I  am  all  for  clemency  towards  this  class,  and, 
what  is  more  important,  for  taking  them  in  hand 


POLICY  AND  PROTECTION  203 

when  young.  If  we  put  ourselves  for  one  moment 
in  the  position  of  the  youth  who,  full  of  health  and 
strength,  with  the  eye  of  a  hawk  and  the  muscles  of  a 
cat,  and  all  the  instincts  of  a  hunter  strong  within 
him,  is  compelled,  day  after  day,  to  observe  more 
fortunate  persons  enjoying  sport,  or  engaged  in  the 
free  and  interesting  life  which  is  in  these  days 
devoted  to  its  preparation  and  protection,  while  he 
ploughs  the  sullen  earth  or  hoes  the  weeds  from  the 
monotonous  rows  of  the  crop,  can  we  wonder  if  he 
leaves  his  appointed  task  at  times  to  give  play  to  the 
same  instincts  as  we  ourselves  have  such  ample  means 
of  gratifying  in  a  legitimate  manner  ? 

The  born  poacher,  he  with  all  these  qualities, 
should  be  encouraged  to  take  up  some  form  of  em- 
ployment where  they  will  be  of  value,  and  where  he 
may  be  too  well  occupied  to  care  any  longer  for 
illicit  depredations  upon  other  people's  game.  If  he 
is  to  remain  at  home,  he  can  be  drafted  early  into 
private  service,  where  sooner  or  later  his  capacity  will 
prove  of  use  to  his  master  ;  if  he  is  so  weary  of  village 
monotony  that  he  must  be  sent  farther  afield,  this  is  the 
man  that  will  make  a  useful  soldier  in  far-off  lands,  or 
a  successful  colonist.  This  may  sound  Utopian,  but 
there  is  really  no  difficulty  in  carrying  it  out,  unless  the 
man's  poaching  instincts  lead  him  to  distant  places,  and 


204  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

he  either  deliberately  leaves  home  to  poach  far  away, 
or,  being  a  stranger,  visits  your  preserves  from  a  dis- 
tance. In  either  of  these  cases  he  has  become  a 
professional  or  '  made '  poacher,  and  you  can  only 
treat  him  as  such  ;  he  is  beyond  reclamation. 

But  first  of  all  your  head  keeper  should,  and 
probably  will,  have  a  pretty  good  general  knowledge 
of  the  characteristics  of  the  youth  of  your  imme- 
diate village  surroundings  ;  should  take  up  with  a 
friendly  care  such  a  one  as  I  have  described,  and 
either  engage  him  as  watcher  or  under  keeper,  or, 
by  bringing  him  to  your  notice,  give  him  the  chance 
of  being  removed  to  some  more  active  and  useful 
sphere,  before  he  has  become  a  confirmed  loafer  and 
bad  character.  The  '  made '  poacher  can  thus  often 
be  avoided  in  your  own  neighbourhood. 

There  is  all  the  difference  in  the  world  between 
the  man  who  does  a  bit  of  snaring  or  shooting  on  the 
sly,  from  mere  love  of  sport,  and  the  man  who  steals 
other  people's  game  on  a  deliberate  and  wholesale 
system  for  profit. 

The  former,  as  I  have  said,  should  be  treated  in  a 
somewhat  paternal  manner,  and,  above  all,  arrested 
while  still  young  in  what  may  prove  a  disastrous  career. 
To  this  end  it  is  of  the  highest  importance  that  your 
head  keeper  should  have  the  wit  to  preserve  his 


POLICY  AND  PROTECTION  205 

popularity  in  the  neighbourhood.  He  should  be  a 
figure  of  importance,  with  a  reputation  for  rigid  disci- 
pline but  perfect  fairness  and  good  temper.  Wherever 
these  qualities  exist  in  such  a  man,  his  underlings 
will  be  found  to  have  been  well  selected,  men  some- 
what after  his  own  pattern  ;  and  the  petty  class  of 
poaching,  which  though  it  may  never  seriously  damage 
the  stock  of  game  under  his  charge  must  yet  be 
firmly  repressed,  will  be  reduced  almost  to  nil. 

The  '  made '  or  confirmed  poacher  rarely  works 
singly,  and  is  or  becomes  a  blackguard,  a  drunkard, 
and  as  a  general  rule  a  coward.  Against  this  class 
of  men  it  is  the  duty  of  your  keepers  to  protect  you. 
This  can  only  be  done  successfully  where  the  latter 
keep  absolutely  clear  of  the  public-house  influence, 
while  cultivating  good  terms  with  the  farmers,  the 
rural  police  as  well  as  those  of  the  neighbouring 
towns,  and  the  respectable  population  generally.  I 
have  already  laid  stress  l  on  the  paramount  import- 
ance of  the  good  relations  between  keepers  and  those 
who  pay  rent  for  or  cultivate  the  soil.  The  wood- 
men, gardeners,  hedgers  and  ditchers,  carriers,  and 
others  whose  comings  and  goings  bring  them  con- 
stantly alongside  or  into  the  midst  of  the  haunts  of 
game  must  also  be  enlisted  on  the  right  side.  If 
'  Vol.  i.  of  this  series,  The  Partridge. 


206  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

all  these,  or  any  considerable  section  of  them,  are  at 
perpetual  war  with  your  keeper,  and  look  upon  him 
as  the  roughest  and  most  unjust  of  men,  good-bye  to 
your  chance  of  ever  keeping  the  amount  of  stock 
which  your  estate  ought  to  produce. 

Since  writing  the  volume  on  '  Partridge,'  l  I  am 
flattered  to  hear  that  my  suggestion  of  a  dinner,  or  a 
subscription  to  the  beaters  and  drivers,  has  been  tried 
in  several  places  with  excellent  results.  Any  departure 
of  this  sort,  which  brings  the  farming  and  labouring 
class  into  closer  touch  with  those  who  take  their 
pleasure  in  the  sports  of  the  field,  can  produce 
nothing  but  good.  Once  the  former  see  some  chance 
of  participating  in  or  benefiting  from  the  festivals  of 
sport,  they  will  be  found,  so  long  as  they  are  well 
treated,  more  useful,  and  infinitely  less  expensive, 
than  a  whole  army  of  tyrannous  keepers.  No 
stranger  will  set  foot  in  the  district  without  your 
keeper  knowing  it,  and  the  depredations  of  the 
organised  gangs  of  egg  and  game  stealers  will  be 
pretty  nearly  checkmated. 

A  very  important  point  for  your  keeper  is  never 
to  prosecute  unless  he  has  a  perfectly  clear  and  fair 
case,  and  a  pretty  good  certainty  of  a  conviction. 
Any  case  which  he  takes  into  court  on  trifling 

1  Vol.  i.  of  this  series,  The  Partridge. 


POLICY  AND  PROTECTION  207 


grounds,  or  with  insufficient  evidence,  is  sure  to  be 
set  down  to  malice  against  the  individual,  and  will 
prejudice  him  in  the  eyes  of  the  local  public  as  well 
as  of  the  magistrates. 

I  must  record  an  opinion  that  it  is  a  great  mistake 
for  a  gentleman,  especially  the  owner  of  an  estate  or 
a  member  of  his  family,  to  take  part  in  night  watch- 
ing or  lying  out  for  poachers.  It  has  been  done  by 
many  for  whom  I  have  a  great  respect,  but  has 
nevertheless  always  appeared,  in  my  humble  judg- 
ment, to  be  an  error.  It  adds,  for  the  keepers,  to  the 
risks  and  responsibilities  of  a  conflict,  tends  in  the 
direction  of  fomenting  class  hatred,  and  is  sure  if  blows 
are  struck  to  arouse  a  sympathy  with  the  marauders 
which  very  probably  would  otherwise  not  exist. 

In  the  colliery  and  manufacturing  districts  these 
questions  are  of  great  importance,  the  large  numbers 
of  the  poaching  gangs,  and  their  violence  when  long- 
standing enmities  are  aroused,  frequently  resulting  in 
serious  encounters  and  sometimes  in  bloodshed.1  In 

1  A  head  keeper  was  murdered  by  poachers  at  Wortley,  in 
the  West  Riding  of  Yorkshire,  in  the  time  of  the  present  writer's 
grandfather,  and  another  some  twenty  years  ago  during  the  life- 
time of  the  present  owner.  A  better  system,  however,  has  led 
to  a  much  less  violent  state  of  things,  and  it  is  only  during  the 
continuance  of  long  strikes  in  the  colliery  districts,  when  the 
whole  countryside  is  in  a  lawless  state,  that  serious  encounters 
are  to  be  feared. 


SHOOTING   THE  PHEASANT 


such  regions  the  keepers  should  prepare  carefully 
before  striking  their  blow.  The  object  of  this  class 
of  poachers  is  to  outnumber  the  upholders  of  the  law 
by  three  or  four  to  one,  and  the  latter  should  take 
care  to  be  in  sufficient  force  to  thoroughly  master 
their  assailants,  take  all  their  apparatus,  and  secure 
convictions  ;  the  keepers  will  then  find  themselves 
comparatively  unmolested  for  some  time  to  come, 
while  the  resistance,  if  there  be  any,  will  not  be  serious 
enough  to  cause  any  tragedy. 

With  regard  to  pheasants  in  particular,  the  irrup- 
tion of  large  gangs  is  not  so  likely,  since  they  can  do 
nothing  except  by  beating  the  woods  with  guns  and 
dogs  in  daylight,  or  by  shooting  at  night.  The  latter 
may  be  best  prevented  by  providing  the  proper  shelter 
for  the  birds  in  every  covert ;  a  subject  which  will 
bring  me,  in  the  next  chapter,  to  the  few  words  I  have 
to  say  on  pheasant  coverts  in  general. 

But  before  leaving  the  question  of  poachers,  the 
importance  of  keeping  down  the  numbers  of  four- 
footed  and  feathered  enemies  of  the  pheasant  must 
be  urged.  The  fox  undoubtedly  is  the  most  formid- 
able of  these,  but  in  most  parts  of  England  he  must 
be  held  sacred.  It  may  be  laid  down  at  once  that 
plenty  of  pheasants  and  plenty  of  foxes  may  be  and 
are  found  together  ;  and  many  of  my  readers  must  have 


POLICY  AND  PROTECTION  209 


seen,  as  I  have,  enough  foxes,  even  during  a  first-rate 
week's  covert  shooting,  to  satisfy  any  master  of  hounds. 
If  your  keeper  persists  in  killing  foxes,  he  will  serve 
you  a  very  bad  turn  with  your  neighbours,  and  sooner 
or  later  you  will  have  to  part  with  him  ;  he  will  pro- 
bably disclose  other  qualities  which  are  against  what 
should  be  his  first  object — his  employer's  interest.  It 
is,  of  course,  necessary  in  a  hunting  country  to  collect 
the  eggs  from  the  wild  nests  more  exhaustively  ;  but 
there  are  various  old-fashioned  dodges  for  protecting 
the  sitting  hen  from  foxes,  while  the  peculiarity  of  the 
absence  of  natural  scent  of  the  bird  during  incubation 
will  save  the  lives  of  a  good  many.1  A  very  little  gas 
tar,  a  little  petroleum,  or  a  strand  of  fine  wire  stretched 
between  any  two  points  near  a  nest,  will  in  most  cases 
deter  the  fox  from  going  near  it.  Later  on,  for  the 
wild  broods,  you  must  trust  to  Providence,  while  for 
your  young  chicks  at  the  coops,  a  dog  chained  hard 
by  at  night,  and  constant  watchfulness  on  the  part  of 
the  keeper,  are  the  only  real  protections. 

But  if  you  preserve  pheasants  highly  in  a  hunting 
country,  you  must  not  only  make  up  your  own  mind, 

1  This  is  doubted  by  some  modern  writers,  yet  it  is,  to  my 
certain  knowledge,  believed  by  many  keepers  of  experience  ;  it 
is  also  quoted  and  apparently  endorsed  by  Mr.  Tegetmeier,  than 
whom  no  greater  authority  exists  on  the  absolute  natural  history 
of  the  pheasant. 

P 


but  persuade  your  keepers  also,  to  face  the  question 
that  a  certain  sacrifice  of  pheasants  is  necessary  for 
the  preservation  of  foxes.  Like  nearly  all  other 
matters  connected  with  this  subject,  it  is,  as  I  have 
said  before,  a  question  of  money.  A  great  deal  may 
be  done  in  your  own  interest,  as  well  as  in  that  of  the 
hunt,  by  planting  suitable  gorse  coverts,  which  the 
foxes  will  take  to,  as  a  rule,  in  preference  to  any  other 
covert.  In  these,  after  they  have  grown  to  a  certain 
height,  you  may  keep  a  moderate  head  of  rabbits,  if  you 
are  on  terms  with  your  tenants  which  enable  you  to  do 
so.  It  is  idle  to  suppose  that  foxes  will  subsist  on  rabbits 
when  there  are  plenty  of  pheasants  ;  but  if  they  have 
always  got  this  class  of  food  ready  to  their  mouths,  so 
to  speak,  they  will  be  the  less  likely  to  raid  your  other 
coverts  for  birds  ;  it  will  at  any  rate  minimise  the 
evil,  and  be  always  popular  with  the  master  of  hounds, 
who  will  be  able  to  make  more  sure  of  a  find,  and  be 
more  likely  to  get  a  run  out  of  a  moderate-sized  gorse 
covert  than  from  large  and  straggling  woods. 

Crows,1  jackdaws,  magpies,  jays,  and  hawks  must 
be  constantly  kept  down  in  numbers,  more  especially 
sparrow-hawks,  the  most  destructive  of  all  in  the  rear- 
ing season.  As  to  rooks,  they  will  undoubtedly  at 
times  consume  pheasant  and  partridge  eggs  to  a  large 

1  Carrion  and  hooded  crows,  as  distinguished  from  rooks. 


POLICY  AND  PROTECTION 


extent.  Two  years  ago,  during  the  great  drought, 
they  destroyed  thousands,  especially  partridge  eggs — 
as  though  they  were  in  search  of  food  with  moisture 
in  it,  or  were  short  of  some  supply,  probably  of  insect 
nourishment,  which  would  be  more  plentiful  in  a 
wetter  season. 

But  serious  as  these  spasmodic  inroads  are  on  the 
part  of  the  rooks,  for  they  do  not  seem  to  trespass  regu- 
larly, I  think  one  should  hesitate  before  destroying  a 
rookery,  one  of  the  most  interesting  and  picturesque 
features  of  the  country,  and  one  which  holds  an  un- 
doubted place  in  the  balance  of  nature.  Hen  pheasants 
will  in  most  seasons  bring  out  their  broods  safely  right 
under  the  trees  of  the  rookery,  and  they  no  doubt 
thrive  on  the  morsels  of  food  dropped  by  their  black 
neighbours  while  feeding  their  young. 

To  destroy  weasels,  stoats,  cats,  and  last,  but  not 
least,  stray  dogs  which  have  taken  regularly  to  poach- 
ing, is,  of  course,  an  elementary  part  of  the  keeper's 
business.  But  it  may  be  noted  that  payment  to  your 
keepers  per  head  of  vermin  destroyed  is  a  bad  system, 
open  to  fraud  and  abuse.  If  practised  at  all  it  should 
be  only  during  the  nesting  and  hatching  season,  say 
from  April  to  August. 

Rats  are  an  expensive  and  troublesome  kind  of 

vermin  ;  expensive  because  they  devour  in  these  days 

p  2 


SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


of  high  feeding  an  enormous  quantity  of  the  corn  in- 
tended for  the  birds,  and  troublesome  because  it  is  very 
difficult  to  trap  or  destroy  them  in  any  effectual  way 
without  injury  or  alarm  to  your  young  birds.  I  have 
seen  them  in  scores  along  a  ride  calmly  feeding  with  the 
young  pheasants.  I  can  only  suggest  that  the  keepers, 
combining  with  the  farmers,  should  pay  more  attention 
to  ferreting  and  destroying  them  out  of  the  stacks  and 
hedgerows  during  the  autumn  and  winter  months  than 
is  commonly  done. 

It  will  be  observed  how  all  these  questions  bring 
us  back  to  the  same  point — namely,  the  qualities  of 
your  head  keeper,  and,  through  him,  of  his  assistants. 
He  must  in  these  difficult  days  intelligently  interpret 
and  loyally  carry  out  the  liberality  of  your  policy.  He 
must  also  observe  that  high-class  game  preserving  is 
nowadays  an  important  industry  and  a  valuable  ac- 
cessory and  stimulus  to  trade,  and  that  consequently 
he  must  maintain  sensible  and  friendly  relations 
towards  those  with  whom  his  business  brings  him  in 
contact. 

The  old-fashioned  second-rate  keeper,  who  was 
like  a  survival  of  the  private  companies  of  men-at-arms 
kept  by  the  feudal  barons,  and  as  such  was  too  often 
a- by- word  for  brutal  and  licentious  conduct,  and  the 
enemy  of  everybody  for  miles  around,  is  quite  played  out. 


POLICY  AND  PROTECTION  213 

As  I  have  said  above,  a  more  intelligent,  better 
educated,  more  urbane,  and,  above  all,  more  business- 
like man  is  now  required,  and,  I  am  happy  to  say, 
already  to  be  found  in  many  places. 

He  should  be  encouraged  to  read  and  to  study 
natural  history,  and  where  possible  to  travel  more 
about  the  country  in  the  pursuit  of  experience  in  his 
own  profession  ;  while  his  employer  should  keep  the 
wholesome  checks  upon  him  which  the  manager  of  a 
department  must  always  expect  from  the  head  of  any 
enterprise. 


214  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 


CHAPTER   VI 

LANDSCAPE   AND    LARDER 

FROM  what  I  have  written  on  the  severely  practical 
side  of  pheasant  preserving,  it  might  be  inferred  that 
I  am  in  favour  of  a  dull  uniformity  in  the  shape  or 
arrangement  of  coverts,  or  that  I  could  placidly  con- 
template the  defacement  or  destruction  of  the  beauties 
of  Nature  with  a  view  to  the  production  of  •  so  many 
more  pheasants,  or  the  burning  of  so  many  more 
cartridges.  This  is  far,  very  far,  from  representing 
what  I  feel  or  even  believe.  As  may  be  imagined,  after 
many  years  devoted  to  art,  my  sympathies  are  specially 
engrossed  by  the  picturesque  side  of  country  life  and 
of  sport  ;  and  I  am  particularly  anxious  to  suggest  to, 
and  if  possible  persuade,  my  readers  that  what  is  good 
for  game  is  in  most  cases  more  likely  to  be  picturesque 
in  appearance  than  that  which  is  not. 

The  inverse  view  certainly  holds  good  ;  ground 
which  is  picturesque  is  almost  always  suitable  for  game 
of  some  kind — witness  the  heaths  of  Norfolk  and 


LANDSCAPE  AND  LARDER  215 


Suffolk,  which  are  such  an  addition  for  breeding  and 
shooting  purposes  to  the  strictly  cultivated  land  ;  or 
the  broken  ground  below  the  moors  in  Scotland  or  in 
the  English  moorland  districts,  which  form  shelters  and 
nurseries  for  the  grouse  ground  proper.  Witness  the 
moors  themselves,  or  such  an  extent  of  pure  forest 
ground  as  the  New  Forest.  But  I  am  perhaps  digress- 
ing into  mere  truisms  ;  we  must  go  more  practically 
into  details. 

There  are  certain  exceptions  to  this  rule  for  the 
actual  harbouring  of  pheasants.  For  instance,  a  large 
beech  wood,  though  beautiful  in  itself  where  the  trees 
are  well  grown,  will  never  hold  them,  since  you  cannot 
find  any  undergrowth  which  will  flourish  in  it.  Yet, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  beech  mast  will  help  to  feed 
them,  and  they  can  run,  as  they  love  to  do,  easily 
under  the  great  trees,  as  you  will  find  to  your  cost 
should  you  have  well-stocked  coverts  of  other  sorts, 
and  there  are  large  beech  woods  on  the  far  side  of  your 
boundary.  On  the  other  hand,  if  you  have  beech 
woods  in  the  centre  of  your  own  ground  you  will  find 
them  of  great  value.  Now  a  word  as  to  these  same 
woods.  If  they  consist  of  magnificent  timber  trees 
already  in  their  full  prime,  having  been  judiciously 
thinned  by  a  former  generation,  leave  them  alone  ;  you 
will  not  better  them  as  a  ranging  and  feeding  ground, 


2l6 


though  you  cannot  shoot  your  pheasants  out  of  them, 
while  to  cut  down  or  maim  them  would  be  an  outrage. 
But  if,  as  is  so  often  the  case,  especially  if  you  buy  an 
estate  which  has  not  been  well  looked  after,  you  find 
many  acres  of  beech  in  which  there  are  not  more  than 
three  or  four  good  trees  to  every  acre,  then  you  have  a 
great  opportunity.  By  cutting  out — always  with  an  eye 
to  the  picturesque  appearance  of  the  wood — and  leaving 
the  good  trees,  you  will  make  open  spaces,  and  create 
a  wilder  and  more  broken  appearance  in  the  covert 
than  before.  These  spaces  you  can  either  leave  alone — 
in  which  case  no  sooner  is  the  shade  of  the  beeches 
removed  than  brambles  or  other  form  of  undergrowth 
will  make  its  gradual  appearance — or  you  can  plant 
them  with  any  sort  of  undergrowth  suitable  to  soil  and 
climate,  and  with  a  few  young  trees.  Holly  and  most 
of  the  firs  look  beautiful  intermixed  with  fine  beeches. 
Your  wood  will  really  be  vastly  improved  in 
appearance  if  this  is  well  done,  and  the  patches  cut 
out  are  not  made  square  or  round,  or  in  any  way 
uniform  in  shape.  And  as  to  your  birds,  the  result 
will  be  equally  satisfactory.  They  will  still  have  a 
goodly  proportion  of  bare  ground  on  which  to  run  and 
scratch  under  the  great  trees,  as  well  as  a  supply  of  the 
beech  mast  which  they  love  for  food.  They  will  also 
have  great  spaces  where  the  sunlight  will  penetrate — 


217 


a  most  important  point — and  shelter  and  warmth 
in  the  undergrowth  which  this  sunlight  will  foster. 
Open  spaces  within  the  inclosure  of  woods  are  spe- 
cially attractive  to  game,  to  which  air  and  light  are 
as  essential  as  to  plants  ;  they  afford  them  pleasant 
spots  on  the  cold  and  windy  days,  where  they  can 
find  shelter  from  the  blast  while  catching  every  warm 
ray  from  the  sun. 

As  to  your  shooting,  every  incident  in  a  wood 
usually  yields  its  incident  to  the  sport,  and  the  most 
varied  ground  is  consequently  the  most  attractive  to 
shoot  over  ;  while,  from  a  practical  point  of  view,  you 
will  find  yourself  able  to  hold  pheasants  in  consider- 
able numbers  in  coverts  where  it  was  previously  found 
impossible  to  do  any  good.  Where  such  coverts  lie 
on  a  hillside,  the  cutting  out  and  consequent  thicken- 
ing of  the  undergrowth  should  be  done  as  much  as 
possible  on  the  higher  side,  since  the  pheasants,  rising 
for  the  most  part  out  of  the  undergrowth,  will  then 
pass  over  the  guns  in  position  on  lower  ground  at  the 
desirable  height. 

The  covert  may,  and  should  where  practicable, 
be  further  strengthened  as  a  holding  or  lying  place 
for  pheasants  by  the  addition  of  a  strip  or  inclosure 
of  broom  or  gorse  on  the  upper  side.  This  should 
have  either  a  broad  grass  ride  or  irregular  open  spaces 


2i8  SHOOTING    THE  PHEASANT 

within  it  on  the  same  principle  as  before,  for  the  birds 
to  stretch  and  sun  themselves  in.  I  cannot  urge  too 
strongly  the  formation  of  such  nurseries,  as  additions 
or  annexes  to  old  woods  which  have  become  hollow 
underneath  ;  and  if  well  done,  with  an  eye  to  appear- 
ance, these  need  not  detract  from,  but  on  the  contrary 
can  be  made  to  add  to,  the  beauty  of  the  woods  as 
features  of  the  landscape.  The  very  natural  inclina- 
tion of  most  agents,  foresters  &c.  is  to  erect  fencing, 
for  economy's  sake,  in  straight  lines,  and  consequently 
you  will  often  see  young  plantations  or  gorse  coverts 
disfiguring,  by  their  uncompromising  rectangular 
shapes,  the  natural  beauty  of  hill  and  dale.  Here, 
again,  we  have  the  question  of  money,  but  in  a  very 
slight  degree  ;  for  it  is  absurd  to  suppose  that  the 
man  who  can  afford  to  put  up,  say,  a  mile  of  fencing 
cannot  afford  to  make  it  a  mile  and  an  eighth  ;  which 
would  be  all  the  increase  required,  if  any,  to  run  it 
in  the  curves  which  the  lie  of  the  ground  properly 
suggests,  and  which  would  make  the  whole  difference 
to  its  appearance. 

The  open  ride,  or  some  space  left  within  the 
inclosure  of  the  broom  covert,  should  be  ploughed 
and  sown  with  buckwheat,  barley,  and  oats,  while  a 
row  or  two  of  cabbages  or  turnips  will  still  further 
improve  it,  and  help  to  keep  the  birds  at  home  when 


LANDSCAPE  AND  LARDER  219 


the  grain  is  exhausted.  Wherever  pheasants  are 
required  they  must,  of  course,  have  access  to  arable 
land  ;  but  as  this  does  not  always  lie  adjoining  the 
coverts  which  you  wish  to  stock  with  birds,  its  place 
must,  where  possible,  be  supplied  by  taking  a  piece 
of  ground  and  using  it  as  above  described.  If  it  lies 
between  two  woods,  or  if  in  planting  new  woods  you 
provide  for  it  beforehand  by  leaving  an  open  space  in 
the  centre  of  your  plantation,  being  careful  to  choose 
a  piece  which  can  be  treated  by  the  plough,  you  will 
derive  even  greater  benefit  from  it  than  if  it  lies  out- 
side. A  day  or  two's  ploughing  can  always  be  hired 
from  the  farmers,  and  the  sowing  should  be  done  by 
your  keepers,  who  should  learn  to  look  upon  this  as 
one  of  the  most  important  matters  connected  with  the 
rearing  and  keeping  of  pheasants. 

I  am  a  great  believer  in  broom  for  pheasants,  as  it 
is  very  warm  overhead,  and  they  can  run  under  it  with 
freedom  and  sheltered  from  wet  and  wind.  But,  like 
many  other  things  which  you  may  desire  to  plant,  it 
is  a  very  favourite  food  with  rabbits  and  hares,  which 
will  eat  the  young  shoots  with  avidity.  It  will  be 
necessary,  therefore,  to  wire  in  all  broom  or  gorse 
coverts,  as  well  as  the  freshly  planted  open  spaces 
which  I  have  mentioned  above,  until  they  are  suffi- 
ciently grown.  Even  then  I  would  as  much  as  pos- 


SHOOTING   THE  PHEASANT 


sible  keep  rabbits  from  them,  as  in  a  hard  winter  they 
will  destroy  the  greater  portion  of  even  the  older  plants. 

There  are,  however,  many  plants,  which  rabbits 
will  not  eat  unless  absolutely  famine-stricken,  to  be 
used  in  filling  these  spaces  ;  among  these  privet, 
berberis  (Mahonia  Aquifoliuni),  and  the  common 
bramble,'  easily  propagated  by  pegging  in  suckers, 
may  be  suggested  with  others  which  you  will  find 
detailed,  with  hints  for  their  protection,  in  the  latest 
works  on  forestry. 

The  two  principles  here  advocated — the  cutting 
out  of  open  spaces,  and  the  addition  of  broom 
coverts  alongside  of  old  woods — I  have  seen  tried 
and  proved  to  improve  the  stock  as  well  as  the  quality 
of  the  shooting.  I  suggested  them  some  years  ago  to" 
Sir  Edward  Lawson,  who  at  that  time  found  great 
difficulty  in  keeping  the  required  stock  of  pheasants 
on  his  estate  at  Hall  Barn  in  Buckinghamshire,  the 
woods  being  old,  hollow,  and  largely  composed  of 
worthless  beech.  The  result  has  been  so  satisfactory 
that  it  is  now  for  its  size  one  of  the  best  shooting 

1  Rhododendron,  though  rabbits  do  not  eat  it,  is  not  really 
good  covert  for  pheasants.  They  dislike  going  into  it  when 
driven,  probably  because  it  is  difficult  for  them  to  rise  out  of, 
though  it  is  certainly  valuable  in  certain  places,  as  shelter  from 
rough  weather.  It  should  never  be  planted  for  the  purpose  of 
flushing  birds  out  of  it. 


LANDSCAPE  AND  LARDER 


221 


estates  in  England ;  and  the  beat  known  as 
'  Hangings  and  Jennings,'  where  you  shoot  all  day  in 
a  sheltered  valley  between  coverts  on  the  slopes  on 
either  hand,  and  where  every  bird  comes  over  really 
high,  is  an  excellent  example  of  a  beautiful  day's 
shooting  on  a  spot  which  under  an  older  regime  gave 
but  indifferent  sport. 


In  making  rides  for  the  express  purpose  of  your 
sport,  you  must,  as  I  have  before  observed,  do  so 
without  reference  to  existing  roads  or  paths,  unless 
these  run  favourably  for  your  object.  In  planting 
new  coverts,  where  cross  rides  are  intended  for  future 
use  to  kill  ground  game  or  pheasants,  a  very  simple 
expedient  is,  instead  of  making  them  rectangular  to 
the  covert,  to  do  so  as  shown  in  the  diagram  above. 


SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 


The  two  guns  placed  forward  can  here  shoot  freely 
at  game  crossing  the  ride  between  them,  instead  of 
either  shooting  one  another  or  letting  the  game  escape, 
which  is  what  has  to  happen  when  the  ride  is  straight. 

In  every  covert  there  should  be  a  proportion  of 
spruces,  silver  firs  and  other  thick  evergreen  trees, 
planted  in  clusters  as  shelter  for  the  roosting  of 
pheasants,  and  if  the  place  for  these  be  judiciously 
chosen  they  will  add  to  the  beauty  of  the  woods  as  a 
whole.  They  are  your  only  sure  protection  against 
shooting  by  poachers,  and  if  placed  as  near  as  pos- 
sible in  the  centre  of  your  coverts,  are  of  great  use  in 
keeping  birds  at  home. 

I  am  not  one  of  those  who  believe  that  "pheasants 
where  they  have  good  food  and  shelter  can  be  easily 
driven  from  their  favourite  haunts,  and  think  a  good 
deal  of  nonsense  is  talked  about  '  disturbing  the 
coverts.'  Hares  are,  of  course,  easily  disturbed  and 
driven  from  a  wood,  and  where  these  are  an  object  the 
place  must  be  kept  very  quiet  for  some  weeks  before  the 
shooting.  But  as  regards  pheasants,  even  the  draw- 
ing of  the  covert  by  the  hounds,  or  occasional  shoot- 
ing at  wood-pigeons  coming  to  roost,  will  do  very 
little  harm,  if  any  ;  and  should  the  covert  lie  well  in 
the  centre  of  your  property,  I  think  the  birds  should 
be  encouraged  to  fly  and  run  about.  But  they  must 


LANDSCAPE  AND  LARDER  223 

be  sedulously  driven  in  from  hedgerows  and  out  of 
root  crops,  or  you  will  lose  many. 

Enormous  quantities  of  pheasants  are  now  reared 
in  England  and  Scotland,  and  it  is  therefore  no 
longer  interesting  to  record  the  totals  obtained  on 
good  shooting  estates.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  it  is  easy 
enough,  in  a  favourable  county,  and  with  a  certain 
expenditure,  to  kill  2,000  pheasants  in  one  day,  or 
even  more  if  you  wish  it ;  while  the  number  of  places 
where  from  600  to  1,000  are  recorded  as  one  day's 
bag  are  probably  twenty  times  as  numerous  as  when 
I  began  to  shoot  nearly  thirty  years  ago.  As  I  have 
said  before,  I  think  this  an  advantage,  and  I  have 
never  met  a  man  who  cares  for  shooting,  let  him 
write  or  protest  as  he  may,  who  will  not  gladly  join  a 
party  for  one  of  these  heavy  days  whenever  he  gets 
the  chance. 

As  there  are  many  false  impressions  amongst 
those  who  do  not  share  in  the  sport  of  pheasant  or 
any  other  shooting,  my  duty  is  to  record  the  fact 
that  it  is  generally  conducted,  as  it  should  be,  with 
the  greatest  liberality  to  all  concerned,  as  well  as  to 
thousands  who  are  not  concerned  in  it.  The  great 
game  preservers  give  away  enormous  quantities  of 
this  expensive  product,  and  sell  much  less  than  is 
generally  supposed.  The  Prince  of  Wales  royally 


224  SHOOTING    THE   PHEASANT 

leads  the  way,  for  of  the  large  quantity  of  game  killed 
annually  at  Sandringham  not  one  head  is  ever  sold, 
and  many  hundreds  of  people  of  all  ranks  can  testify 
to  the  thoughtful  kindness  which  prompts  his  Royal 
Highness's  countless  gifts.  It  used  to  be  the  boast 
of  Drumlanrig  that  25,000  head  of  game  were  killed 
on  that  estate  alone  during  the  season,  every  head 
not  consumed  for  the  use  of  the  house  being  given 
away,  and  the  present  Duke  of  Buccleuch  keeps  up 
the  same  liberal  tradition  on  all  his  estates.  Many 
others  are  there  whom  I  could  name  who  look  upon 
their  game  preserving  merely  as  a  means  of  pleasing 
their  friends,  giving  employment  in  their  own  neigh- 
bourhood, and  doing  a  little  good  to  others  at  a 
distance. 

The  qualities  of  the  genial,  generous  country 
gentleman  are  still  to  be  found,  and  I  am  happy  to 
say  are  no  less  common  among  those  whose  fortunes 
and  acres  are  newly  acquired  than  among  the  here- 
ditary owners  of  the  soil. 

To  many  of  these  of  both  sorts  I,  like  others 
who  do  not  own  an  acre  of  land,  owe  grateful  thanks 
for  happy  days  ;  which,  with  my  apologies  for  the 
incompleteness  and  imperfections  of  these  necessarily 
limited  Avritings,  I  tender  with  the  greatest  possible 
pleasure. 


THE  COOKERY  OF  THE  PHEASANT 

BY 

ALEXANDER    INNES    SHAND 


THE  COOKERY   OF   THE   PHEASANT 

THE  most  illustrious  gastronomists  have  with  unani- 
mous consent  pronounced  the  pheasant  the  best  of 
game  birds.  Individuals  will,  of  course,  have  their 
predilections.  Some  may  own  to  a  partiality  for 
the  bitter  of  the  grouse  :  others  will  confess 
to  a  sentimental  passion  for  the  thighs  and  trail 
of  snipe,  woodcock,  and  plover.  As  for  the  unpre- 
tending partridge,  it  is  a  universal  favourite.  But 
were  gourmets  to  be  brought  up  for  a  plebiscite,  as 
the  Athenians,  according  to  the  veracious  Plutarch, 
were  called  upon  to  assign  a  rank  to  their  great 
generals,  if  the  pheasant  did  not  take  the  lead  in  the 
lists,  at  least  he  would  almost  invariably  be  assigned 
the  second  place.  Nor  is  it  difficult  to  suggest 
reasons  for  the  precedence.  He  is  indebted  for  it, 
principally  to  his  genuine  merits  and  partly  to  ad- 
ventitious circumstances.  He  is  to  be  found  in 
any  wood,  where  circumstances  are  tolerably  favour- 

Q  2 


228        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

able,  from  the  bramble  brakes  and  arbutus  groves  of 
Western  Ireland  to  the  hanging  covers  on  the  hills 
in  the  Asian  Highlands.  Where  he  has  not  free 
range,  with  fair  immunity  from  poachers,  he  is 
absolutely  dependent  on  artificial  protection.  For 
the  charm  which  popularises  him  for  the  table  lies 
in  his  being  the  connecting  link  between  the  wild 
game  bird  and  the  coop-reared  capon  of  the  poultry 
yard.  He  is  plump,  well-sized,  and  delicately 
flavoured.  The  resin-scented  capercailzie  and  the 
noble  bustard,  unhappily  extinct  in  England — who, 
by  the  way,  runs  very  much  to  sinew  from  excessive 
pedestrian  exercise — are,  like  the  wild  turkey,  far  too 
formidable  in  proportions  to  figure  gracefully  in 
the  second  course.  As  for  the  peacock,  with  the 
swan  he  has  long  ago  gone  out  of  fashion,  and 
indeed  the  glory  of  the  bird  is  in  his  plumage, 
although  a  tender  young  peafowl  is  by  no  means 
to  be  despised.  So  that  the  pride  of  place  has 
fallen  indisputably  to  the  pheasant.  Brillat-Savarin, 
who,  as  he  owns  himself,  affected  an  appetite  he  un- 
fortunately did  not  possess,  does  not  disguise  his  pre- 
ference for  the  beccafico  That  delightful  little  bird 
has  the  flavour  and  melting  bouquet  of  the  sun-warmed 
figs  on  which  he  gorges.  But  perhaps  the  most  pathetic 
passage  in  the  sentimental  '  Physiologic  de  Gout,'  is 


THE   COOKERY  OF  THE  PHEASANT       229 


where  the  writer  breathes  out  the  impassioned  wish 
that  the  incomparable  beccafico  might  have  the  bulk 
of  the  pheasant,  with  which  it  has  so  much  in 
common.  However,  the  Epicurean  of  the  cuisine 
and  the  basse-cour  consoles  himself  there  and  else- 
where with  the  well-worn  reflection,  that  this  sub- 
lunary world  is  not  a  Paradise,  and  that  there  must 
be  some  suspicion  of  regrets  in  the  most  admirably 
arranged  banquet. 

But  a  propos  to  the  condition  of  approaching  to 
perfection,  we  are  reminded  that  we  have  been  wrong 
in  talking  of  the  ideal  pheasant  in  the  masculine. 
Even  cooks  of  world-wide  fame,  such  as  the  illustrious 
Gouffe,  have  been  betrayed,  apparently  by  meretricious 
admiration  for  gay  plumage,  into  recommending  the 
selection  of  cocks  for  the  plats.  We  fancy  it  is  a 
survival  of  the  barbaric  tradition  of  sending  birds  in 
their  feathers  to  the  tables,  when  guests  were  rather 
voracious  than  discriminating.  It  would  be  as  much 
in  keeping  with  the  fitness  of  things  if  the  modern 
sportsman,  after  a  successful  battue,  came  down  to  do 
the  agreeable  to  beauty  at  the  dinner-table  in  muddy 
shooting  boots  and  blood-bespattered  gaiters.  Be  that 
as  it  may,  there  can  be  no  doubt  whatever  that  whe- 
ther as  a  maid  in  her  first  season  or  a  juvenile  matron, 
the  hen  is  infinitely  superior  to  the  cock.  We  must  all 


230        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 

have  regretted  on  receiving  gifts  of  game  our  previous 
liberality  to  the  gamekeeper ;  for  that  functionary's  idea 
of  gratitude  and  friendship  is  sure  to  take  the  form  of 
selecting  the  cocks  in  the  finest  plumage  which  would 
gladden  the  soul  of  a  birdstuffer.  The  best  way  to 
deal  with  them  is  to  hang  them  up  indefinitely,  and 
then  when  they  threaten  to  take  French  leave  of  the 
hooks,  to  smother  them  under  pie  crust  in  mush- 
rooms and  bacon  fat.  With  that  treatment  even  the 
tough  drumsticks  become  practicable,  but  we  need 
scarcely  say  that  the  fumet  of  the  pheasant  has 
evaporated.  Or  there  is  another  way,  as  our  cookery 
books  have  it,  which  we  have  often  adopted  in  the 
Highlands  with  satisfaction,  when  going  in  for  mixed 
shooting.  The  patriarchal  pheasants  and  the  mus- 
cular old  blackcocks  who  fell  crashing  through  the 
brushwood,  awaking  all  the  echoes  in  the  depths  of 
the  precipitous  glens,  we  found  to  make  admirable 
cock-a-leekie.  In  England,  where  cock-a-leekie  is 
almost  as  unfamiliar  as  swallow-nest  soup,  they  may 
of  course  be  consigned  to  the  stock-pot  as  the  last 
resort. 

But  with  the  pheasant,  whether  old  or  young, 
everything  depends  on  keeping  and  hanging.  Brillat- 
Savarin,  as  a  master  of  gastronomic  philosophy, 
speaks  with  no  uncertain  sound,  and  puts  the  matter 


THE   COOKERY  OF   THE   PHEASANT       231 


with  his  usual  epigrammatic  terseness.  The  reverence 
with  which  he  approaches  the  subject  is  a  sublime 
tribute  to  the  pheasant. 

'  He  is  an  enigma  of  which  the  solution  is  only 
revealed  to  adepts  :  they  only  can  appreciate  the 
savour  in  all  its  piquancy.  .  .  .  When  the  pheasant 
is  eaten  within  three  days  after  his  death,  there 
is  nothing  to  distinguish  him.  He  has  neither  the 
delicacy  of  a  capon  nor  the  perfume  of  a  quail. 

( When  cooked  at  the  exact  moment,  how  mar- 
vellous the  transformation  !  The  flesh  is  tender, 
sublime,  and  of  the  most  recherctie  flavour,  for  it 
blends  the  savour  of  fowl  and  venison.  The  most 
delicate  point  is  when  the  pheasant  begins  to  de- 
compose :  then  the  aroma  develops  and  combines 
with  an  oil,  which  to  etherealise  itself  needed  some 
measure  of  fermentation,  like  coffee-oil,  which  is  only 
to  be  obtained  by  excessive  heat.' 

Then  the  practical  philosopher  goes  on  to  indi- 
cate the  signs  by  which  you  may  gather  that  the 
bird  is  ready  for  the  spit.  These  we  may  as  well 
pass  over  in  silence,  for  the  technicalities  of  the 
kitchen  are  far  from  appetising.  But  Savarin  sums 
up  the  whole  matter  in  the  dictum  that  the  moment 
is  suggested  by  intuition.  The  faintest  odour  floating 
in  the  air  will  spare  a  veritable  culinary  genius  the 


232        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 


trouble  of  fingering  the  feathers  and  scanning  the 
changing  colours  of  the  skin.  Yet  the  more  obvious 
indications  are  undoubtedly  useful  to  artists  or 
cordons  bleus,  who  are  simply  well-meaning  and  con- 
scientious. 

M.  Kettner  made  his  living  by  the  science  which 
Savarin  cultivated  as  a  connoisseur,  although  in  a 
consistent  course  of  experimental  philosophy.  And 
Kettner  goes  further,  for  he  lays  down  the  law  that  the 
pheasant  must  always  be  hung  up  till  he  falls  down.  We 
suspect,  however,  from  the  unwonted  enthusiasm  with 
which  he  expatiates  on  the  gamey  scent  of  the  pheasant 
that  his  senses  were  not  over- delicate.  In  fact  the 
cooks  of  German  or  Provencal  extraction  must  almost 
necessarily  be  handicapped  by  the  disadvantages  of 
their  early  education.  Sauerkraut  and  bouillebaisse 
may  be  excellent  in  their  way,  but  no  youth  who  has 
been  brought  up  on  such  strong-flavoured  delicacies 
can  have  the  most  fastidious  of  noses  or  the  most 
sensitive  of  palates.  You  might  as  well  hope  to  do 
justice  to  the  delicacy  of  a  ftounder-souche  after  a  din- 
ner of  red  herrings.  The  time  for  which  game  ought 
to  be  kept  is  a  question  of  sentiment,  as  well  as  of 
taste.  Some  people  have  a  not  altogether  unreason- 
able prejudice  against  eating  anything  that  is  supposed 
to  be  decomposing.  That  unfortunate  prepossession 


THE   COOKERY  OF  THE  PHEASANT      233 

is  fatal  to  intelligent  gourmandise  ;  and  we  can  only 
say  that  those  purists  may  as  well  leave  game  alone,  and 
content  themselves  with  the  somewhat  insipid  spring 
chickens,  which  likewise  lose  by  precipitate  cooking. 
But  there  is  one  remarkable  feature  with  the  pheasant, 
and  a  pleasing  trait  it  is.  Keep  him  as  long  as  you  will, 
within  any  reasonable  limits,  and  the  '  oysters'  with  the 
delicate  pickings  from  the  back  are  not  only  eatable,  but 
enjoyable  ;  whereas  with  woodcock,  snipe,  or  plover,  if 
you  are  to  enjoy  the  trail,  you  must  sacrifice  the  bird, 
and  notably  the  thighs,  with  their  splendid  possibilities. 
A  warm  controversy  has  been  waged,  by  the  way, 
between  the  comparative  attractions  of  the  wing  and 
thigh  of  the  pheasant.  It  strikes  us  that  it  is  but  the 
old  story  of  the  shield  seen  from  opposite  sides,  for 
it  is  all  a  question  of  age  and  sex.  We  envy  no  one 
who  tries  manfully  to  tackle  the  thigh  of  a  middle- 
aged  or  elderly  male.  But  in  our  opinion  no  blanc 
of  the  choicest  pheasant  can  in  any  way  compare  with 
the  softly  subdued,  yet  penetrating  savour  of  a  femi- 
nine leg  of  ample  proportions,  and  especially  when 
there  is  a  gartering  of  the  yellow  fat. 

Talking  of  the  yellow  fat,  naturally  leads  us  on  to  the 
question  of  pheasant  feeding.  We  said  that  the  phea- 
sant owed  much  to  adventitious  circumstances,  and 
assuredly  no  game  bird  depends  so  much  upon  his 


234 


diet  and  the  localities  in  which  he  has  been  reared. 
We  have  remarked  that  every  disquisition  on  cookery 
goes  back  to  the  Romans — if  not  to  the  times  of 
their  Trojan  ancestors  and  to  the  Homeric  feasts 
before  the  walls  of  Ilium.  We  had  almost  forgotten 
that  remarkable  people,  the  terror  of  the  young 
gentlemen  at  Dr.  Blimber's  academy.  But  we  are 
irresistibly  led  to  moralise  on  the  vanity  of  mortal 
aspirations,  when  we  think  of  the  fond  delusions 
of  Apicius,  Lucullus,  or  Vitellius  as  they  feasted  on  the 
belated  game  which  was  served  at  their  superabundant 
boards.  Some  of  these  imperial  epicures  were  gluttons 
rather  than  gourmands,  and  had  no  sort  of  pretension 
to  be  gourmets.  They  were  perpetually  grasping  at 
shadows,  and  confounding  ostentation  with  luxury. 
They  valued  a  dish  for  its  cost  and  rarity,  and  rewarded 
a  cook  with  a  farm  for  some  mad  freak  of  original 
extravagance.  Fancy  pretending  to  enjoy  Whitstable 
natives  on  the  Seven  Hills  before  refrigerating  cham- 
bers were  invented  !  What  could  be  more  grotesquely 
absurd  than  silencing  five  hundred  melodious  song- 
sters to  furnish  an  imperial  entree  of  nightingale 
tongues  !  The  culinary  system  which  ended  with  the 
fall  of  the  Empire  was  essentially  vicious.  There 
were  no  pheasant  coverts  in  the  Campagna,  and  the 
cheerful  crow  of  the  cock  of  the  low  country  woods 


THE   COOKERY  OF   THE   PHEASANT       235 

never  greeted  the  early  woodman  on  the  Alban  Hills. 
But  the  pheasants  figured  conspicuously  all  the  same 
at  Roman  feasts ;  they  were  probably  imported  from 
Pontus  or  Cappadocia.  No  doubt  they  came  in  coops, 
and  were  hand-crammed  on  the  voyage.  We  can 
imagine  the  condition  in  which  the  unlucky  fowls 
were  delivered  to  the  poulterers  at  Ostia,  after  a 
sad  experience  of  shaking  and  sea-sickness.  Nowa- 
days our  most  lavish  gourmands  are  wise  enough  to 
avoid  such  follies.  Mohammed  travels  to  the  moun- 
tains in  place  of  demanding  impossible  miracles,  and 
if  connoisseurs  desire  foreign  delicacies  in  perfection, 
they  go  to  eat  them  on  the  spot.  There  are  not  many 
enthusiasts  like  the  Creoles  in  '  Tom  Cringle's  Log,' 
who  came  all  the  way  from  Jamaica  to  Biggleswade 
for  the  sake  of  the  Bedfordshire  eels,  and  whose  pil- 
grimage ended  in  melancholy  disappointment.  But 
we  have  known  travellers  who  have  gone  to  Nijni- 
Novgorod,  that  they  might  try  the  sterlet  in  the 
famous  Volga  restaurants  ;  and  we  have  heard  of  globe- 
trotters who  have  missed  a  steamer  at  Singapore,  that 
they  might  get  over  a  first  disappointment  and  acquire 
a  taste  for  the  mangosteen.  The  financiers  and  the 
farmers  of  the  French  revenues  did  a  great  work  in 
their  day,  and  their  selfish  and  ostentatious  profusion 
has  been  of  lasting  service  to  culinary  science.  But 


236        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

modern  taste  has  been  purified,  and  its  tendency  is 
towards  simplification.  The  menus  of  the  most 
sumptuous  tables  have  gradually  been  cut  down,  till 
moderation  in  high  places  can  hardly  go  further.  So 
the  pheasant  has  been  coming  more  and  more  into 
favour,  for  where  the  plats  are  few  and  select,  he  is 
more  and  more  indispensable. 

For  if  he  is  not  acclimatised  congenially  in  all  the 
Western  countries,  where  civilisation  has  diffused  itself, 
at  least  he  is  within  easy  reach.  Yet,  as  we  said,  he  de- 
pends greatly  on  location,  and  in  these  days  of  express 
trains  and  swift  and  punctual  delivery,  it  is  sometimes 
better  to  bring  the  birds  from  a  distance.  This  may- 
be safely  laid  down  as  an  axiom,  that  the  wilder  the 
pheasant,  the  better  the  flesh.  The  corollary  is,  that 
buying  at  a  poulterer's  is  very  much  of  a  lottery,  in 
which  the  blanks  are  many,  and  the  prizes  few.  The 
shops  are  overstocked  in  the  season  of  the  battues,  and 
the  vast  majority  of  the  birds  have  been  fattened 
like  domestic  poultry.  In  his  wild  condition  the  phea- 
sant is  a  roving  epicure.  When  the  sun  is  sinking 
towards  the  horizon  he  wanders  forth  in  quest  of  a 
supper.  Naturally,  for  his  pieces  de  resistance,  he  pays 
a  visit  in  the  autumn  to  the  stubbles,  with  their  rich 
scattering  of  golden  grain.  Nothing  in  the  way  of 
insects  comes  much  amiss  to  him  ;  he  pecks  very 


THE    COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT       237 


promiscuously  among  the  grubs  and  the  worms.  But 
like  the  Alsatian  geese,  to  which  the  author  of  the 
Almanack  des  Gourmands  sophistically  attributes  con- 
solatory visions  of  the  glorious  destinies  awaiting  them, 
when  they  are  condemned  to  pass  on  their  liver  com- 
plaints to  the  purveyors  of  Strasburg/<z/£y,  the  pheasant 
seems  to  feed  himself  philanthropically,  in  considera- 
tion of  the  palates  of  the  gourmets.  It  is  all  very  well, 
the  communicating  artificial  flavour,  by  the  introduc- 
tion of  a  stuffing  or  the  invention  of  a  sauce.  The  real 
secret  is  to  select  the  birds  or  the  beasts,  which  have 
unconsciously  been  flavouring  themselves  through  a 
short  but  well-spent  existence,  So  the  Southdown  is 
worth  nothing,  in  the  second  summer  orso,  when  he  has 
been  sent  away  from  the  thyme-scented  pastures  which 
are  salted  by  the  fresh  sea  breeze ;  and  the  pre-sale 
saddle  of  the  Parisian  restaurants,  although  possibly 
the  pedigree  of  the  mutton  may  be  pure  enough,  is  for 
the  most  part  a  shameful  imposture. 

The  wild  pheasant  frequents  the  spinneys  and  the 
hedgerows,  not  only  from  his  naturally  shy  instincts, 
but  because  they  offer  him  an  eternally  varying  diet. 
He  would  be  safer  and  less  disturbed  in  the  thick 
undergrowth  of  our  extensive  woodlands.  But  he 
loves  the  tender  shoots  of  the  hedge  timber,  and  revels 
fastidiously  on  seeds  and  hips-and-haws,  and  more 


238        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE   PHEASANT 

especially  on  the  berries  of  the  elder.  In  the  Scotch 
Highlands  we  have  known  him  attracted  to  great 
distances  by  straggling  clumps  of  the  rowan  or 
mountain  ash,  or  even  by  tempting  single  trees.  The 
pungent  flavour  of  the  rowan  berry  is  distinctly  per- 
ceptible and  singularly  piquant.  It  is  remarkable, 
by  the  way,  that  the  fieldfare,  who  is  as  partial  to  these 
ruddy  clusters  as  the  pheasant,  should  be  so  foolishly 
neglected  by  the  English  cook.  For  a  pate  the  field- 
fare may  be  as  good  as  anything  that  can  come  from 
Perigueux  or  Pithiviers  ;  and  in  Flanders  they  send 
him  to  table  in  an  earthenware  pan,  frizzling  among 
berries  of  the  juniper.  The  pheasant,  as  might  be 
assumed  from  his  sprightly  habits  and  his  cheerful 
mien,  his  omnivorous  appetite,  and  an  admirable  diges- 
tion, whenever  he  has  the  chance  gorges  on  acorns 
and  beech  nuts,  like  any  of  the  swine  in  Westphalia  or 
Estremadura.  And  those  nuts,  assimilated  through  an 
active  life,  are  worth  any  quality  of  chestnuts  or  truffles 
in  a  sauce  or  a  stuffing.  We  knew  an  old  farmer,  whose 
Michaelmas  geese  always  fetched  the  highest  prices 
at  Leadenhall ;  although,  in  fact,  the  deliveries  were 
post-dated,  and  the  geese  never  reached  the  salesman 
till  some  time  after  Michaelmas  Day.  We  asked 
the  reason,  and  the  venerable  breeder  explained, 
although  not  without  a  certain  reluctance,  that  he 


THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT       239 

kept  his  flocks  till  the  fall  of  the  acorn,  and  the  gain 
was  as  great  in  the  weight  as  in  the  flavour. 

Necessarily,  that  elementary  fact  as  to  dieting  did 
not  escape  the  notice  of  the  intelligent  Brillat-Savarin. 
Discussing  game  in  general,  he  says,  '  It  also  derives 
great  part  of  its  value  from  the  nature  of  the  soil  on 
which  it  is  nourished :  the  flavour  of  a  red  partridge  from 
Perigord  is  very  different  from  that  of  a  red  partridge 
from  the  Sologne' — and  both,  as  we  may  remark 
in  passing,  are  distinctly  inferior  to  their  grey  kinsfolk ; 
'  and  whereas  the  hare  killed  on  the  plains  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Paris  only  appears  a  very  indifferent  plat> 
the  leveret  born  on  the  sun-burned  eoteaux  of  Valramey 
or  the  Upper  Dauphiny  is  perhaps  the  most  perfumed 
of  all  quadrupeds.'  Hay  ward  tells  us,  in  his  'Art  of 
Dining,'  which  is  a  veritable  mine  of  gastronomic  re- 
search, though  the  writer's  theories  were  greatly  superior 
to  his  practice,  that  the  Duke  of  Rutland  of  that  day 
never  would  hear  of  a  Leicestershire  partridge  being 
dressed  for  his  table,  since  '  partridges  are  worth  no- 
thing in  a  grass  district.'  The  same  may  be  said  much 
more  emphatically  of  pheasants.  Bred  between  the 
maggots  and  the  buckwheat,  the  birds  may  run  to  bulk, 
but  they  lose  in  flavour.  At  one  time  the  staff  of  the 
Austrian  Legation  in  London  happened  to  be  made  up 
of  viveurs  from  Vienna,  who  were  connoisseurs  in  the 


240        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

pleasures  of  the  table.  They  greatly  appreciated  the 
solid  side  of  the  English  cuisine:  the  turtle  from 
Painter's  ;  the  turbot  from  the  North  Sea  and  the 
Channel ;  even  the  haunches  of  fallow  venison  from  the 
English  parks  ;  and  especially  those  British  saddles 
and  sirloins  which  had  been  glorified  by  the  enthusiasm 
of  '  The  Druid.'  They  were  generally  disappointed  in 
the  game,  although  the  Highland  grouse — certainly 
not  the  Yorkshiremen — were  a  revelation  to  them.  But 
above  all  they  were  disappointed  with  the  flavourless 
pheasants.  In  moments  of  expansion  over  the  wine 
and  dessert,  they  unbosomed  themselves  to  an  Eng- 
lishman who  was  an  habitue  of  the  Embassy.  He  said 
little,  but  his  national  pride  being  piqued,  he  thought 
all  the  more.  Some  days  afterwards  his  Austro- 
Hungarian  friends  were  dining  with  him  at  a 
famous  dining  club.  It  was  rather  as  matter  of 
courtesy  that  they  condescended  to  try  the  pheasants, 
although  seductively  browned  to  a  shade  by  one  of  the 
most  accomplished  of  rotisseurs.  The  second  mouthful 
changed  civility  into  surprise,  and  the  host  was  over- 
whelmed with  compliments,  the  sincerity  of  which 
was  unimpeachable,  for  the  birds  disappeared.  They 
had  been  sent  specially  for  the  occasion  from  the  Welsh 
woods  of  a  peer  who  had  domains  in  various  Scotch 
and  English  counties.  But,  as  the  entertainer  knew, 


THE   COOKERY±OF   THE  PHEASANT       241 


like  his  Grace  of  Rutland,  he  always  imported  his 
pheasants  wherever  he  might  be,  and  from  those  Welsh 
woods  of  his  own,  with  their  succulent,  natural  shrub- 
beries. 

These  Viennese  gentlemen  had  been  spoiled  for 
anything  else  by  familiarity  with  the  birds  of  Bohemia 
and  Upper  Austria.  There,  with  the  free  range  of 
vast  forests,  interspersed  with  farms  and  patches  of 
vegetable  ground  round  the  cottages,  the  pheasants 
have  all  possible  conditions  in  their  favour.  Nowhere 
are  they  to  be  eaten  in  greater  perfection  than  in  the 
older  restaurants  of  Vienna.  In  England,  as  we  have 
said,  there  are  long  odds  against  the  buyer  and  con- 
sumer. In  Austria  the  odds  are  all  the  other  way, 
and  failure  is  an  extreme  improbability.  Next  to 
the  birds  of  Bohemia  we  should  rank  those  of  the 
Ardennes  ;  but,  indeed,  all  the  game  of  south-eastern 
Belgium  is  super-excellent.  Happily  for  the  fame  of  the 
Parisian  restaurateurs,  there  are  excellent  pheasants  to 
be  shot  or  snared  in  such  forests  as  Chantilly  or  Villers 
Cotterets,  and  in  such  vast  preserves  as  those  of 
Ferrieres.  But,  alas,  in  this  as  in  other  respects,  we 
have  to  regret  the  backward  civilisation  of  Spain.  No 
districts  are  naturally  better  suited  to  the  pheasant 
than  many  of  the  provinces  of  the  Peninsula.  The 
soil  is. dry,  yet  in  districts  the  land  is  well  watered; 

R 


242        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

the  atmosphere  is  balmy,  and  the  undergrowth  aro- 
matic. But  for  many  reasons  the  grandees  and  great 
landowners  have  never  turned  their  attention  to  game 
breeding  and  game  preserving.  In  a  succession  of  revo- 
lutions the  people  have  made  wild  work  with  the  woods, 
and  each  Spanish  peasant  is  a  born  poacher.  Till 
yesterday,  and — in  many  districts — even  to-day,  every 
muleteer  carries  a  long  single-barrel  across  his  saddle- 
bow. His  wary  eye  is  always  on  the  watch  for  anything 
that  will  relieve  the  monotony  of  the  puchero.  We  sus- 
pect if  a  Spanish  gentleman  took  to  serious  preserving, 
he  would  make  a  leap  into  the  frying-pan  of  the  Irish 
landlord.  There  used  to  be  fair  wild  pheasant  shoot- 
ing a  generation  ago  in  the  Asturias  ;  but  there  was 
a  Marquess,  who  was  a  grand  seigneur  and  a  bene- 
volent despot,  and  his  dependants  were  as  conservative 
as  the  Bretons  of  the  Chouannerie.  He  had  always  a 
warm  welcome  for  English  sportsmen,  and  could  even 
venture  to  bring  over  eggs  from  England,  with  a  fair 
prospect  of  seeing  the  broods  come  to  maturity.  Yet 
we  may  presume,  from  the  name  of  the  Isle  des 
Faisans  in  the  Bidassoa,  that  pheasants  must  once 
have  been  fairly  plentiful  in  these  parts,  though,  ac- 
cording to  a  story  of  Brillat-Savarin,  the  bird,  as 
late  as  1780,  was  a  very  great  rarity  in  wealthy  Lyons. 
Brillat-Savarin  writes  with  such  an  air  of  veracity,  that 


THE   COOKERY  OF  THE  PHEASANT      243 

we  are  always  inclined  to  believe  him  reliable.  Here 
he  relates  how  an  inhuman  practical  joke  was  played 
on  a  certain  Chevalier  de  Langeau.  The  worthy  old 
gentleman  had  beggared  himself  at  the  Court,  and 
came  on  a  scanty  pittance  to  exploiter  his  title  and 
ribbon  at  industrial  Lyons,  where  he  was  made  wel- 
come at  the  most  sumptuous  tables.  He  supped  one 
night  with  a  rich  banker,  and  on  the  strength  of  a  long 
invitation,  he  expected  great  things.  The  supper  was 
good,  but  far  from  recherche.  As  it  went  on  he  re- 
signed himself,  like  a  man  of  sense,  and,  making  up 
for  lost  time,  he  ate  to  repletion.  Indeed,  a  magni- 
ficent truffled  turkey  had  given  him  no  great  reason  to 
complain.  Just  when  he  was  luxuriously  disposing 
himself  for  digestion,  the  scene  changed  to  his  sorrow  ; 
but  we  must  let  Savarin  give  the  touching  denouement 
in  his  own  eloquent  words.  The  Chevalier  had  pulled 
himself  together,  and  struggled  like  a  man  to  trifle  with 
a  succession  of  tantalising  dainties.  Heroic  humanity 
could  do  no  more,  and  '  what  were  his  feelings  at  the 
third  remove,  when  he  saw  snipes  arriving  by  the  dozen, 
white  with  fat  and  slumbering  on  the  regular  rotter  ;  a 
pheasant,  a  bird  which  was  then  extremely  rare,  and 
which  had  been  brought  from  the  banks  of  the  Seine  ; 
a  fresh  tunny,  and  all  that  the  cookery  of  the  time 
and  the  oven  could  present  as  being  most  delicate  in 

R  2 


244        THE    COOKERY  OF    THE   PHEASANT 

entremets?  The  Chevalier,  betrayed  by  a  friend  and 
touched  in  his  tenderest  point,  got  up  with  what  dig- 
nity he  could  after  his  gorging,  and  vindictively 
nursed  the  sense  of  the  injury,  till  he  yielded,  after 
many  months,  to  the  pleadings  of  his  stomach  and 
palate.  Brillat-Savarin  of  course  tells  his  story  well, 
and  he  treats  it  from  the  patriotic  point  of  view.  But 
we  are  reminded  of  the  comedy  in  Goldsmith's  letter 
of  gratitude  for  the  haunch  of  venison  from  Lord 
Clare,  and,  in  the  course  of  researches  into  cosmo- 
politan gastro-lore,  we  find  parallels  in  the  culinary 
anecdotes  of  many  nations.  Truffles  are  generally 
associated  with  pheasants,  as  geese  fattened  on  farms 
with  apple  orchards  go  with  apple  sauce,  and  as  the 
wild  boar,  for  some  more  recondite  reason,  is  served 
with  barberry  sauce  or  a  sweet  dressing  of  cherries 
or  plums.  And  truffles  may  sometimes  be  judiciously 
introduced  in  pheasantry,  as  is  shown  specially  in  the 
faisan  a  la  Sainte-Alliance.  Brillat-Savarin  swore  by 
that  dish,  yet  as  a  profound  thinker  and  analyst  he 
remarks  that  the  pheasant  is  scarcely  succulent  enough 
to  do  justice  to  the  aromatic  dryness  of  the  truffle. 

So  we  come  back  to  what,  in  the  words  of 
Solomon,  is  the  conclusion  of  the  whole  matter — that 
the  excellence  of  pheasants  depends  on  the  rearing. 
In  England  we  know  nothing  to  equal  the  Norfolk 


THE   COOKERY  OF  THE  PHEASANT       245 


birds.  It  is  notorious  that  the  county  is  famous  for  its 
wheat  fields.  The  soil  and  climate  are  phenomenally 
dry,  so  that  the  birds  are  always  in  excellent  condition, 
and  there  are  varieties  of  berries  on  the  undergrowth 
with  snug  sitting  in  the  bracken  beds.  The  heaviest 
pheasants  have  been  shot  in  Norfolk  battues,  al- 
though size  is  of  course  a  secondary  consideration. 
We  may  add,  although  it  may  appear  paradoxical, 
that  in  our  opinion,  and  for  similar  reasons,  the 
pheasant  is  at  his  best  where  he  is  most  of  an  exotic. 
There  is  no  more  glorious  sport,  for  example,  than  in 
the  copses  overhanging  Loch  Lomond,  or  in  those 
sloping  down  to  the  seaweed-strewn  shores  of  Argyll- 
shire. There  is  seldom  regular  preserving,  and  the 
birds  are  comparatively  few  and  far  between.  But  if 
they  could  be  head-marked  and  consigned  to  the 
leading  London  poulterers  they  would  inevitably  com- 
mand the  highest  prices.  We  have  referred  already 
to  the  objections  to  buying  game,  when  you  are  igno- 
rant of  the  county  of  its  prevenance.  But  besides 
that,  when  an  inexperienced  individual  goes  market- 
ing on  his  own  account,  he  is  pretty  sure  to  make  an 
unfortunate  choice.  Whatever  may  be  said  of  battues 
from  the  sporting  point  of  view — and  much  ignorant 
nonsense  is  talked  about  them — it  is  certain  that  they 
are  injurious  to  the  interests  of  the  kitchen.  When  the 


246        THE   COOKERY  OF    THE  PHEASANT 


birds  are  rising  simultaneously  by  the  score,  and  the 
guns  may  be  shooting  jealously,  too  many  pheasants  are 
killed  at  short  range,  and  come  down  shattered  or 
maimed.  Then  the  cripples  picked  up  by  the  keepers 
next  day  have  been  deteriorating  through  a  long 
night  of  thirst  and  agony.  Independently  of  conside- 
rations of  the  palate,  nothing  is  more  disagreeable 
or  unsightly  when  carving,  than  to  come  upon  thighs 
hanging  by  ligatures,  and  on  wings  and  breasts  suf- 
fused with  blood.  Indeed,  the  cooks  might  say, 
'  Vive  le  braconnier]  for  no  systems  of  killing  are  so 
satisfactory  as  snaring  or  dropping  point  blank  with 
an  air  cane. 

When  the  pheasant  first  made  his  reputation  in 
France,  neither  preserving  nor  regular  battues  had 
been  dreamed  of.  Nor  yet  in  those  days  did  the 
restaurant  exist.  He  was  forwarded  to  the  royal 
palaces  or  the  hotel  of  monseigneur  by  the  keepers 
who  ranged  the  rides  in  limitless  forests,  and  nearly 
as  often,  we  dare  to  say,  by  the  poachers.  The  Grand 
Monarch,  who  did  everything  on  a  magnificent 
scale,  had  pheasant  covers  of  his  own  around  Ver- 
sailles, Marly,  and  St.  Cloud.  The  French  nation  had 
little  reason  to  bless  his  memory,  but  it  must  be  said 
to  his  credit  that  he  was  the  founder  and  munificent 
patron  of  the  intelligent  school  of  French  cookery.  Like 


247 


the  monarchs  of  the  House  of  Hanover,  he  enjoyed 
a  portentous  appetite,  and  he  grudged  no  means 
of  gratifying  it.  His  starving  subjects,  who  saw  him 
dining  in  public  on  the  terrace,  admired  his  powers  as 
they  envied  his  opportunites.  Dumas  sketches  him 
admirably  in  the  '  Vicomte  de  Bragelonne,'  where  he 
is  delighted  with  the  natural  gifts  of  Porthos,  Seigneur 
de  Bracieux.  He  sends  down  special  dishes  to  the 
gigantic  musketeer  from  his  own  upper  table,  a 
pheasant  among  the  other  things,  and  asks  flatteringly 
intelligent  questions  as  to  the  dishes  which  Porthos 
approved.  It  is  an  historical  fact  that  the  pheasant 
was  the  favourite  of  the  great  king.  His  palate 
was  as  fastidious  as  his  appetite  was  large,  and  though 
he  loved  to  trifle  with  ortolans  or  beccaficos,  his 
serious  affections  were  on  more  solid  fare.  He  set  a 
fashion  in  pheasants,  and  his  successors  and  their 
courtiers  developed  it.  The  pheasant  became  the 
plat  de  predilection  at  the  famous  suppers  of  the 
Palais  Royal  during  the  Regency.  The  Regent,  who 
was  an  enthusiast  in  chemistry,  did  not  confine  his 
researches  and  experiments  to  the  retorts  and  crucibles 
in  the  laboratory.  He  was  not  content  with  calling 
up  his  chef  to  discuss  his  menus,  but  would  descend 
to  the  kitchen  for  more  intimate  consultations. 
Under  his  reckless  regime,  and  when  Law  was  blowing 


248        THE    COOKERY  OF    THE   PHEASANT 


his  South  Sea  bubbles,  the  taste  for  cookery  became 
not  only  a  fashion  but  a  rage.  Louis  XIV.  had  left  the 
finances  in  dire  confusion.  The  national  distress  was 
the  opportunity  of  individuals.  The  old  noblesse,  drawn 
from  its  domains  to  the  Court,  had  been  well-nigh 
ruined  in  the  race  of  extravagance.  The  financiers  and 
farmers-general  had  come  to  the  front.  They  had 
none  of  the  refinement  of  the  lavish  Fouquet,  and  as 
little  of  the  frugality  of  his  supplanter  Colbert.  They 
had  to  assert  a  place  in  society  by  vulgar  ostentation. 
They  were  much  given  to  marrying  well-born  wives, 
and  the  ill-matched  spouses  were  mutually  unfaithful. 
The  financiers,  almost  to  a  man,  had  their  petites 
maisons  and  their  mistresses,  as  well  as  their  magni- 
ficently furnished  hotels.  For  the  most  part  they  kept 
up  double  establishments  of  cooks,  and  they  vied  with 
each  other  in  repasts  which  were  modelled  on  the 
Roman  profusion.  But  there  were  enthusiastic  diefs 
cherishing  the  traditions  of  Vatel,  who  had  committed 
suicide  precipitately  on  a  point  of  honour.  When 
they  had  talent  or  showed  fair  promise,  they  never 
wanted  an  engagement  nor  the  means  of  prose- 
cuting their  studies,  for  as  they  were  the  surest 
stepping-stones  of  their  employers,  they  had  literally 
carte  blanche.  And  we  get  an  idea  of  the  resources 
of  their  culinary  genius  from  the  story  told  by  Hayward 


THE   COOKERY  OF  THE   PHEASANT       249 

in  '  The  Art  of  Dining,'  of  Bertrand,  the  artiste  of  the 
Prince  de  Soubise.  The  chefhsA  presented  the  menu 
for  a  supper,  and  one  of  the  items  was  fifty  hams. 
Naturally  the  Prince  objected,  and  protested  that  he 
did  not  mean  to  feast  his  regiment.  The  wounded 
chef  exclaimed  with  dignity,  '  Monseigneur,  you  do 
not  understand  our  resources.  Give  the  word,  and 
those  fifty  hams  which  astound  you  shall  be  put 
into  a  bottle  no  bigger  than  my  thumb.'  Then  he 
condescended  to  explain,  that  forty-nine  of  the  hams 
had  been  used  for  stock,  dressings,  or  sauces. 

The  story  gives  a  good  idea  of  the  way  in  which 
the  cooks  of  the  financiers  went  to  work.  From  their 
day  the  pheasant  ceased  to  be  a  simple  roti,  to  be 
simmered  down  into  a. puree,  or  to  be  sent  up  smothered 
in  truffles.  Their  ingenuity  devised,  more  or  less  in 
the  rough,  many  of  the  elaborate  refinements  in  way 
of  entrees  which  have  now  become  common-places 
of  the  cookery  books.  Louis  XV.  did  not  let 
the  practice  of  the  little  suppers  languish.  It  was 
he,  or  his  boon  companion  Richelieu,  who  used  to 
gravitate  between  the  Bastille  and  Versailles,  who 
is  said  to  have  invented  the  flying  tables,  although, 
indeed,  the  idea  was  borrowed  from  the  Romans. 
These  tables  had  the  obvious  advantage  of  dispensing 
with  the  presence  of  embarrassing  servants,  and  they 


250        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

soon  came  to  be  doubly  appreciated  as  establishing 
swift  communications  with  the  subterraneous  fires. 
It  must  have  chilled  the  ardour  of  any  rotisseur  to 
know  that  the  game,  done  to  a  turn,  was  to  be  cooled 
in  the  passage  through  interminable  corridors  ;  now 
the  tinkle  of  a  silver  bell  demanded  the  change  of  the 
courses ;  and  the  chef  who  respected  himself  often 
kept  his  master  waiting.  He  felt  that  the  cook  must 
be  superior  to  the  caprices  of  amorous  dalliance  or 
frivolous  talk ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  on  the  per- 
fection of  his  repasts  he  knew  that  he  staked  his 
character  and  fortunes. 

The  Revolution  reversed  everything,  and  the  lines 
of  the  French  chefs  fell  in  uncongenial  places  when 
they  followed  the  ruined  emigres  to  Coblenz  and  else- 
where. Yet  some  of  those  who  stayed  at  home  found 
occupation,  and  others  who  had  emigrated  were  soon 
tempted  to  return.  For,  strange  to  say,  the  troubles 
of  the  Revolution  were  the  birth-time  of  those  Parisian 
restaurateurs  who  have  made  themselves  a  world-wide 
notoriety.  It  is  said  that  the  reaction  from  intense 
excitement  brings  factitious  cravings  ;  and  we  know 
from  Boccaccio  and  the  records  of  the  Plagues  that  men 
who  despair  of  the  morrow  do  their  best  to  live  in  the 
day.  It  is  certain  that  Beauvilliers  established  his 
famous  restaurant  when  the  prisons  of  Paris  were 


THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT       251 

being  filled  to  overflowing,  and  when  the  tumbrils, 
with  their  melancholy  loads,  were  continually  jolting 
to  the  guillotines.  Beauvilliers  was  a  genius  in  his 
way,  and  was  epicurean  in  the  interests  of  others,  who 
rose  serenely  superior  to  passing  incidents.  He  must 
have  brought  a  wonderful  brain  to  his  business,  and 
his  speculations  succeeded  beyond  all  expectation. 
Had  he  succumbed  to  the  terrors  and  anxieties  of 
the  time,  the  popularisation  of  high  cookery  might 
have  been  delayed  indefinitely.  As  it  was,  his  new 
establishment  attracted  appreciative  guests,  and  its 
master  had  soon  a  host  of  imitators.  But  Beauvilliers, 
while  he  lived,  could  hold  his  own,  as  he  did  hold  it 
through  the  wars  of  the  Empire  to  the  Restoration. 
Like  old  M.  Pascal  at  Philippe's  in  the  Rue  Mont 
Orgueil,  he  had  a  marvellous  memory  for  faces,  and 
professed  a  seductive  sympathy  with  the  tastes  of 
his  guests.  As  Brillat-Savarin  remarked,  he  would 
walk  from  table  to  table,  suggesting  special  dishes 
and  wines  with  a  charm  there  was  no  resisting. 
When  the  bill  came  up,  the  tempter  had  disappeared, 
and  the  party  had  their  mauvais  quart  d'heure  all  the 
same.  To  such  an  eminently  practical  host  the  Revolu- 
tion was  an  unmixed  blessing  in  more  ways  than  one. 
It  filled  his  cellars  and  larders  as  well  as  his  salons  ; 
he  bought  cheap  and  sold  dear.  When  the  cJiateaux 


252        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


were  pillaged  and  wrecked  there  were  forced  sales  of 
the  wines  ;  when  the  domains  of  the  aristocrats  were 
put  up  to  public  auction,  the  gardes-chasse  were  sent 
into  involuntary  retreat,  and  the  peasants  had  the  run 
of  the  woods.  Pheasants  and  partridges  poured  into 
the  capital,  and  Beauvilliers,  when  he  wrote  his  '  L'Art 
du  Cuisinier ' — which  does  due  honour  to  the  phea- 
sant— shows  that  he  had  taken  advantage  of  his  op- 
portunities. Yet  the  great  man  had  reason  to  lament 
the  ingratitude  of  his  compatriots,  and  he  lived  to  see 
himself  eclipsed  by  his  younger  rival  Very.  At  least, 
it  was  Very  who  contracted  to  furnish  the  tables  of 
the  allied  sovereigns  when  they  paid  their  unwelcome 
visit  to  Paris  in  1814.  Brillat-Savarin  is  eloquent  in  his 
praise  of  Beauvilliers'  great  work.  He  says  that  it  bears 
the  stamp  of  enlightened  practice,  and  was  a  treasury  of 
original  and  ingenious  research,  to  which  all  subsequent 
writers  have  been  indebted  for  materials. 

Until  things  settled  down  under  the  Restoration 
the  restaurateurs  enjoyed  a  monopoly  of  the  best 
Parisian  cooking.  Even  when  the  French  nobles  had 
come  back  with  their  diminished  fortunes  they  could 
not  afford  to  give  high  salaries,  and  indeed  they 
seldom  entertained.  There  were  no  longer  Marshals 
who  were  expected  to  lavish  their  pay  and  appoint- 
ments in  the  service  of  the  Empire,  though  personally, 


THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT       253 

like  Junot  or  Murat,  they  might  have  preferred  a  bon 
petit  plat  canaille.  There  was  no  longer  a  zealous 
gourmand  like  Cambaceres,  the  grand  chancellor,  who 
officially  and  vicariously  entertained  with  carte  blanche 
from  his  master.  The  best  Parisian  cooks  went  a- 
begging,  and  were  snapped  up  by  wealthy  English- 
men, or  occasionally  transported  to  Russia.  When  the 
Sovereigns  were  entertained  by  the  members  of  aristo- 
cratic White's  at  Devonshire  House,  Talleyrand  and 
the  French  connoisseurs  were  en  pays  de  connaissance, 
for  the  salmis  and  coulis  of  English  pheasants  had 
been  dressed  by  illustrious  French  artists.  The  price 
per  head  for  the  banqueting  was  absurd  and  ruinous  ; 
but  it  was  far  surpassed,  by  the  way,  by  a  bet  de- 
cided shortly  afterwards  at  the  same  club,  which  is 
mentioned  specially  in  the  magnificent  volumes 
brought  out  by  Mr.  Algernon  Bourke.  The  member 
who  devised  the  most  costly  dish  was  to  escape  scot 
free  at  a  feast  of  the  most  extravagant  combinations. 
Lord  Alvanley,  who  was  triply  famous  as  a  wit,  a  bold 
rider  in  the  shires  and  a  bon  vivant,  won  with  a  col- 
lection of  rare  and  elegant  extracts,  in  which  the 
oysters  of  pheasants  figured  conspicuously. 

The  Parisian  restaurants  had  engaged  the  highest 
talent  and  set  the  fashion  of  intelligent  experiment 
and  research  to  the  provinces  and  the  other  capitals. 


254        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


The  cooks  who  graduated  in  their  kitchens  dissemi- 
nated science  all  over  Europe.  But  the  Parisian 
magasins  de  comestibles  were  still  more  characteristic. 
In  London  there  were  houses,  like  the  old  Ship  and 
Turtle  in  Leadenhall  Street,  lately  transmogrified  and 
restored,  which  were  unrivalled  for  solid  speciali- 
ties. The  turtles  in  the  cellars  and  tanks  of  that 
establishment  were  a  sight  to  see,  and  we  fancy 
nothing  in  Ascension  or  the  Bahamas  could  equal  it. 
But  there  was  no  attempt  at  ornamental  advertising, 
and  there  was  no  display  in  the  windows  to  indicate 
the  gastronomic  luxuries  within  ;  whereas  the  artisti- 
cally grouped  trophies  of  game  in  the  windows  of 
Chevet  or  Potel,  in  which  the  pheasants  hung  glitter- 
ing like  golden  stars  in  the  radiance  of  their  gorgeous 
plumage,  doubtless  suggested  subjects  for  La  Gour- 
mandise  of  Eugene  Sue,  and  might  have  tempted  an 
anchorite  to  give  generous  orders. 

But  these  magazines  of  game  are  but  the  ante- 
chambers of  the  kitchen,  and  although  a  catalogue 
raisonnk  of  receipts  may  be  rather  dull,  we  must  go 
on  to  say  something  of  actual  cookery.  There  is 
nothing  better  to  a  man  of  fairly  healthy  appetite 
than  its  simplest  form,  and  naturally  we  begin  with 
roasting.  Felix  Graham  after  all  made  no  great  dis- 
.covery  when  in  '  Orley  Farm '"  he  told  the  worthy 


THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT       255 

Mrs.  Baker  that  eating  a  pheasant  after  dinner  is 
wasting  one  of  the  best  gifts  of  Providence,  and  that  a 
man  should  have  a  pheasant  all  to  himself.  Both 
propositions  are  undeniably  sound,  but  everything 
depends  on  the  roasting.  The  cook  selects,  as  a 
matter  of  course,  the  plump  young  bird  that  has  been 
properly  kept,  and  then  he  possesses  the  material 
for  realising  a  great  though  simple  inspiration.  The 
rdtisseur,  like  the  poet,  nasdtur  non  fit  •  there  are  the 
instincts  of  genius  in  the  regulation  of  the  fire  which 
is  to  bring  out  the  rich  and  appetising  colouring. 
Look  upon  this  picture  and  on  that.  The  pheasant, 
with  his  gay  plumage  glittering  in  the  sunshine,  may 
be  said  to  gain  and  be  transfigured,  in  the  golden  glow 
of  his  glorified  demise.  He  melts  in  a  gush  of  tender 
sympathy  to  the  slightest  incision,  and  the  sweet 
savour  of  his  virtues  and  well-spent  life  goes  up  into 
the  nostrils  of  the  mourner,  who  thinks  fondly  of 
him  when  finally  disposed  of.  Nor  is  there  anything 
better  than  the  natural  gravy,  and  we  hold  that  there 
is  something  heterodox  in  the  continental  practice  of 
tampering  with  the  native  sauce.  Delicately  browned 
bread  crumbs  and  potato  chips  are  always  suitable 
accompaniments  to  low-country  game,  and  as  for  bread 
sauce,  that  has  been  consecrated  by  old  custom,  and 
with  better  reason  than  the  sauce  of  the  apple  which 


256        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 

custom  sanctions  for  the  goose.  It  is  a  graceful  tribute 
to  the  frequenter  of  the  wheat  fields,  in  which  he  laid 
on  the  luscious  fat  and  picked  up  his  staple  subsistence. 
An  old  gourmand  of  our  acquaintance  used  always  to 
aver  that  bread  sauce  was  the  best  of  vegetables.  We 
are  far  from  going  so  far  as  that,  and  though  undeni- 
ably a  good  thing,  very  much  depends  on  the  making. 
Simple  as  it  may  sound  and  seem,  its  satisfactory 
projection  demands  talent  scarcely  inferior  to  that  of 
the  scientific  roaster.  As  you  have  it  in  almost  all 
hotels  and  too  many  clubs  of  the  highest  preten- 
sions, it  tastes  not  unlike  the  poultice  it  resembles. 
The  bread  sauce  seems  to  be  an  English  fancy ; 
the  pheasant  when  simply  roasted  abroad  is  gene- 
rally sent  up  with  a  service  of  watercress  ;  or  some- 
times there  is  a  surrounding  of  slices  of  lemon, 
as  lemon  is  always  squeezed  into  the  gravy.  The 
lemon,  as  we  think,  comes  in  better  when  the  bird  has 
been  either  pique  (larded),  or  barde  (enveloped  in 
bacon).  Of  course  in  the  latter  case  you  strip  off  the 
covering,  and  certainly  the  funtet  is  not  only  admirably 
preserved,  but  sublimated  by  the  subdued  flavour  of 
the  pig.  We  have  already  spoken  our  mind  as  to 
meritorious  sauces,  but  in  no  case  can  we  approve  of 
sauce  Pe'rigueux.  And  the  crucial  test  is  that  though 
it  may  commend  itself  to  vitiated  palates,  there  are 


THE    COOKERY  OF   THE   PHEASANT       257 


invariably   ingredients   which   make   it    fatal   to   the 
bouquet  of  Burgundies  of  haut  cru. 

But  the  sublimest  form  of  art,  endeavouring  to  paint 
the  lily  and  improve  upon  nature,  is  undoubtedly  the 
faisan  a  la  Sainte- Alliance,  to  which  we  have  already 
alluded.  The  name  indicates  the  date  of  introduction 
in  the  Parisian  restaurants,  though  for  the  original 
idea  we  are  indebted  to  Brillat-Savarin.  He  first 
gives  careful  instructions  as  to  preparing  the  bird,  and 
then  passes  on  to  directions  as  to  stuffing  and  dressing. 
You  get  a  couple  of  woodcocks — bone  them,  and 
separate  them  into  two  portions,  the  one  consisting  of 
the  flesh,  the  other  of  the  liver  and  trails.  Then  you 
mince  up  the  flesh  with  beef  mixed  with  grated 
bacon,  condiments,  and  fine  herbs,  and  proceed  to 
plug  up  the  intestines  with  the  best  truffles.  If  the 
bird  has  been  long  hung,  it  is  rather  difficult  to  seal  up 
the  contents  hermetically,  which  is  indispensable  to 
complete  success.  You  spit  the  pheasant  delicftely 
above  a  broad  slice  of  bread,  which  is  covered  with  the 
stuffing  of  the  trail,  &c.,  with  pounded  truffles,  with 
more  grated  bacon,  an  anchovy,  and  a  sufficiency  of 
butter.  Then  as  he  roasts  before  the  carefully  regulated 
furnace,  he  drips  and  sheds  his  choicest  succulence 
into  bread  that  is  turning  to  toast.  Brillat-Savarin 
recommends  you  to  serve  him  surrounded  with  bitter 

s 


258        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


oranges,  and  to  rest  tranquil  as  to  results.  We 
never  chanced  to  see  that  accompaniment  of  oranges, 
but  for  long  the  Sainte- Alliance  was  a  specialite  of  the 
Trots  Freres  Provenfaux  in  the  Palais  Royal,  an  his- 
torical house,  which,  like  Philippe's  and  the  Cafe  de 
Paris,  came  to  grief  many  years  ago  for  no  intelligible 
reason.  There  were  certain  modifications  introduced 
at  the  Trots  Freres,  but  our  friend  who  had  such 
a  passion  for  bread  sauce  sought  in  vain  to  penetrate 
.these  secrets,  although  he  was  highly  esteemed  by  the 
chiefs  of  the  house,  both  as  a  connoisseur  and  a  liberal 
patron.  And  after  that  triumph  of  gourmandise,  it  is 
really  an  anti-climax  to  speak  of  the  simple  truffle 
stuffing,  though  an  excellent  thing  in  its  way,  which 
can  even  make  the  guinea-fowl  edible. 

I  write  with  reserve  about  boiling  pheasants, 
because  I  have  a  perverse  fancy  for  boiling  many 
things,  such,  for  example,  as  the  legs  of  mountain 
mu€on,  which  is  a  scandal  and  a  stumbling  block 
to  cooks  and  waiters.  Nevertheless,  I  cannot  help 
thinking  that  to  the  artistically-minded,  boiled  phea- 
sant must  make  a  pleasant  variation.  In  defence 
I  plead  his  kinship  to  the  capon  or  the  chicken,  and 
his.  sympathetic  affinity  to  celery  ;  though,  unlike  the 
canvas-back  duck,  he  has  never  seen  or  tasted  the 
vegetable  till  they  have  come  together  on  the  table. 


THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT       259 

In  boiling,  the  grand  point  is  never  to  break  the 
skin,  and  then  a  plump  young  hen,  bedded  on 
celery  and  served  with  celery  sauce,  with  the  faintest 
dash  of  the  lemon,  is  a  dish  for  the  gods.  Meo 
arbitrio,  as  the  Antiquary  says  of  a  second-day 
chicken  pie,  the  thigh  in  that  sense  is  better  than 
either  the  breast  or  wing.  But  always  remember 
that,  as  Bailie  Jarvie's  father  the  Deacon  used  to  say 
of  a  tup's  head,  the  pheasant  over-boiled  is  poison. 
From  thirty  to  fifty  minutes  is  ample  time  for  all 
sizes,  from  the  smallest  to  the  biggest.  Above  all,  in 
making  the  celery  sauce,  never  forget  a  sufficiency  of 
rich  cream.  Roast  pheasant  with  truffles  ;  braised 
pheasant  with  chestnuts — these  are  the  formulas.  For 
braising,  truss  the  bird  as  it  were  for  boiling,  and  a 
boiled  pheasant  must  be  trussed  more  elaborately 
than  a  roast  one.  Take  bacon,  a  carrot  and  shalots, 
don't  forget  the  celery,  select  a  dozen  or  so  of  chest- 
nuts, scalded  and  strained,  add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon 
and  a  soup^on  of  garlic.  Then,  as  some  writers  recom- 
mend, line  the  heated  stewpan  with  slices  of  beef — 
you  may  either  eat  the  beef  or  leave  it  alone — in  any 
case  it  adds  body  to  the  braising.  Fill  the  pheasant 
with  stuffing  flavoured  with  spices,  and,  considering 
the  comparative  coarseness  of  the  cuisine,  you  may 
use  nutmeg  and  cayenne  almost  to  indiscretion.  Do 


260        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


the  pheasant  up  in  well-buttered  paper  like  a 
mullet,  but  strip  it  of  the  paper  before  serving, 
and  for  appearance's  sake  let  it  have  another  turn 
or  two  of  the  fire.  Then,  as  the  Swiss  aubergiste 
said  to  Dumas  when  serving  him  the  bear  that  had 
been  supping  on  a  neighbour  :  Gontez-moi  ce  gaillard- 
la,  et  vous  n?en  direz  nouvelles. 

I  pass  on  to  glance  at  some  plals  de  luxe.  Though 
bound  to  notice  them,  I  preface  the  remarks  by  pro- 
testing against  them  generally  as  vicious  refinements  of 
a  sated  civilisation,  which  will  have  variety  or  novelty 
at  any  sacrifice.  Yet  many  of  them,  though  sounding 
luxurious,  are  really  economical,  and  suggest  preten- 
tious or  savoury  fashions  of  sending  game  to  the  table 
a  second  time.  In  most,  of  course,  the  truffle  again 
comes  into  play ;  we  are  tempted  by  the  respective 
attractions  of  salmi,  supreme,  and  souffle  ;  and  the 
simple  gravy,  limpid  as  golden  sherry,  is  superseded 
by  the  spiced  and  laden  sauce  Perigueux,  or  some- 
thing resembling  it  in  a  pungency  which  is  injurious 
to  the  delicacy  of  the  pheasant.  The  salmi,  which 
is  simply  English  for  the  stew,  comes  most  readily 
within  the  compass  of  commonplace  cooks.  Yet 
there  are  salmis  and  salmis,  and  some  are  worthy 
of  the  talent  of  a  cordon  bleu  •  and  we  remember  the 
famous  one  which  the  mendacious  Becky  Crawley 


THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT       261 

averred  she  had  prepared  with  her  own  hands  for  her 
brother-in-law,  Mr.  Pitt.  Whoever  made  that  re- 
chauffe, it  must  have  been  a  good  one,  and  not  un- 
worthy of  Lord  Steyne's  White  Hermitage,  which 
brought  a  flush  into  the  pale  cheeks  of  the  member 
for  Queen's  Crawley.  All  you  have  to  do  is  to 
cut  up  the  cold  game  neatly  ;  see  that  there  is  some- 
thing to  make  an  abundance  of  stock  or  artificial 
sauce— fat  pork  will  do  well  enough,  in  the  absence  of 
anything  better — and  then  add  brown  sherry  and  lemon 
juice  to  suit  the  taste.  Or  should  there  be  half  a  bottle 
of  claret  or  Burgundy  left  over  from  the  dinner  of  the 
day  before,  it  will  make  a  most  satisfactory  substitute  for 
the  sherry.  For  the  souffle  you  pound  the  pheasant 
in  a  mortar,  moisten  with  gravy,  season  with  pepper 
or  spice,  and  by  passing  the  whole  through  a  fine 
sieve,  deprive  the  bird  of  the  least  particle  of  its  full 
natural  flavour.  The  salmi  may  want  character,  and 
yet  be  savoury  enough  ;  but  the  souffle  is  what  the 
novelists  call  '  sweetly  pretty,'  and  consequently  sadly 
insipid.  Very  much  more  may  be  done  with  the  vol- 
au-vent,  in  which  sections  of  the  fresh  pheasant  are 
inclosed  in  walls  of  golden  crust,  with  its  native 
odours  and  savours  intermingled  with  those  of  truffles, 
oysters,  mushrooms,  cockscombs,  crayfish,  soft  roes, 
and,  in  fact,  anything  of  the  sort  you  please.  When 


262        THE   COOKERY  OF   THE  PHEASANT 


chefs  went  in  for  the  castellated  and  decorated  pastry 
which  adorned  the  tables  at  state  banquets,  the 
contents  of  the  vol-au-vent  must  have  sometimes  suf- 
fered. We  are  inclined  to  believe  that  they  are  the 
better,  now  a  more  unassuming  dish  is  handed  round 
at  the  diner  a  la  Russe.  As  for  the  quenelles  and  the 
boudins,  they  explain  themselves,  and  nothing  need  be 
said  of  them,  except  they  make  pretty  enough  orna- 
mental entrees.  Many  connoisseurs  have  a  predilection 
for  the  dressing  a  la  Soubise  ;  and  there  is  one  recom- 
mendation in  doing  pheasants  in  that  way,  for  they 
need  not  necessarily  be  young.  You  truss  as  for 
boiling,  and  then  braise  in  rich  stock,  with  bacon 
and  vegetables.  Pheasant  a  la  St.  Cloud  somewhat 
resembles  the  a  la  Sainte- Alliance,  but  the  stuffing 
is  less  costly.  Partridge,  hare,  or  rabbit  may  be 
substituted  for  the  snipe,  and  the  chief  ingredients 
are  the  livers  with  chopped  truffles  and  fine  herbs. 
Or  a  sauce  a  la  Bearnaise  may  be  substituted 
for  the  Soubise,  though  that  excellent  concoction  of 
the  Provengal  cooks,  which  has  been  a  passion  of  the 
Basque  gentry  from  time  immemorial,  is  decidedly  too 
prononce  in  flavour  for  white  game.  The  garlic  and 
the  sharp  vinegar  go  better  with  a  bourgeois  dish,  such 
as  the  poitrine  de  mouton,  which  has  always  been  a 
special  breakfast  plat  de  jour  at  the  Cafe  Voisin,  in  the 


THE    COOKERY   OF    THE   PHEASANT      263 

Rue  St.  Honore,  which,  by  the  way,  could  boast  of 
the  best  cellar  of  Burgundies  in  Paris  before  being 
laid  under  reckless  contribution  in  the  siege  by  the 
Germans  and  the  troubles  of  the  Commune. 

That  suggests  a  word  by  way  of  postscript  as  to 
the  wines  which  may  best  accompany  the  bird.  We 
are  always  of  the  opinion  that  mixing  vintages  is 
a  sad  mistake,  and  we  know  not  whether  to  pity  or 
envy  the  man  who  can  begin  with  Chablis  and  end 
with  old  Madeira,  without  feeling  disagreeable  conse- 
quences next  day.  The  excellent  fashion  is  becoming 
almost  universal  among  gourmets,  especially  when  they 
have  passed  the  grand  climacteric,  of  sticking  to  mode- 
rately dry  champagne  from  the  oysters  or  appetisants 
to  the  devilled  biscuits.  But  if  ever  there  is  fair  excuse 
for  breaking  a  golden  rule  it  is  when  the  Burgundy 
cradled  in  its  basket  goes  round  with  the  pheasant. 
When  you  dine  on  pheasant  alone,  following  the  coun- 
sels of  Felix  Graham,  of  course  there  can  be  no  mistake 
about  the  matter,  if  a  bin  of  old  Burgundy  be  within 
reach.  Fate  can  have  nothing  better  in  store  for  the 
epicure  than  a  pheasant  of  the  Ardennes,  with  a  bottle 
of  the  Romance,  Chambertin,  or  Clos  Vougeot,  which 
is  the  pride  of  a  few  of  the  Belgian  chateaux,  and 
is  still  to  be  found  in  one  or  two  old-fashioned 
hostelries,  notably  in  Liege  and  Bruges.  That  wine  has 


264        THE    COOKERY   OF   THE  PHEASANT 


been  brought  into  the  Low  Countries  with  the  slightest 
possible  disturbance  by  steamers  or  barges  on  the 
rivers  and  canals.  In  England,  thanks  to  the  shaking 
en  the  railways  and  the  Channel,  it  is  rare  indeed  to 
get  Burgundy  in  perfection,  for  money  cannot  buy  it. 
Yet  as  a  pis-aller  good  Bordeaux  is  by  no  means  to 
be  despised.  Nay,  in  Bohemia  and  Austria,  where 
we  have  said  the  pheasants  are  the  best,  and,  in- 
deed, of  surpassing  excellence,  it  is  possible  to  com- 
bine enjoyment  with  economy.  Carlowitzer,  Ofner 
&c.  of  admirable  quality  are  to  be  had  in  the  most 
extravagant  of  the  Viennese  restaurants  for  a  compara- 
tive trifle,  and  they  are  a  very  satisfactory  substitute 
for  the  vintages  of  Burgundy  or  the  Gironde.  After 
all,  it  is  safe  advice,  when  in  doubt,  to  play  trumps,  or 
in  other  words,  to  call  for  champagne.  If  you  hold 
to  champagne,  you  can  at  least  be  consistent,  for  it 
should  always  be  forthcoming  at  dejeuners  or  ball 
suppers,  and  is  most  suitable  to  all  the  cold  pre- 
parations, such  as  Chaufroid,  Mayonnaise,  and  Galan- 
tine. I  have  not  deemed  it  necessary  to  notice  these, 
as  the  pheasant  is  treated  like  the  chicken  or  any  other 
fowl.  In  dismissing  this  delicious  bird,  one  can  hardly 
do  better  than  quote  the  letter  of  one  illustrious  divine 
to  another,  and  both  the  enthusiasts  were  sworn  apostles 
of  simplicity.  This  is  the  last  communication  from 


THE    COOKERY  OF   THE   PHEASANT       265 


Sidney  Smith  to  Canon  Barham  or  Thomas  Ingoldsby, 
'  Many  thanks,  my  dear  sir,  for  your  kind  present  of 
game.  If  there  is  a  pure  and  elevated  pleasure  in 
this  world  it  is  that  of  roast  pheasant  and  bread  sauce; 
barn-door  fowls  for  dissenters,  but  for  the  real  church- 
man, the  thirty-nine  times  articled  clerk,  the  phea- 
sant !  the  pheasant ! ' 


PRINTED    BY 

SPOTTISWOODE    AND    CO.,    NEW-STREET  SQUARE 
LONDON 

i 


THE  BADMINTON  LIBBABY. 

Edited  by  the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT,  K.G.  and  A.  E.  T.  WATSON. 


ARCHERY.    By  C.  J.  LONGMAN  and  Col.  H.  WALROND. 

With  Contributions  by  Miss  LBOH,  Viscount  DILLON,  Major  0.  HAWKINS 
FISHEB,  &c.  With  2  Maps  and  195  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

ATHLETICS    AND    FOOTBALL.      By    MONTAGUE 

SHEARMAN.    With  51  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

BIG     GAME     SHOOTING.    By    CLIVE    PHILLIPPS- 

WOLLEY,  Sir  SAMUEL  W.  BAKER,  W.  0.  OMWELL,  F.  C.  SELOUS,  &c. 
Vol.  I.  Africa  and  America.    With  77  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo.  10.?.  6rf. 
Vol.  II.  Europe,  Asia,  and  the  Arctic  Regions.    With  73  Illustrations.    Crown 

8vo.  10s.  6d. 

BOATING.    By  W.  B.  WOODGATE.     With  an  Intro- 

duction  by  th«  Kev.  EDMOND  WARRE,  D.D.  and  a  Chapter  on  '  Rowing  at 
Eton'  by  R.  HARVEY  MASON.  With  49  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6rf. 

COURSING    AND    FALCONRY.    By  HARDING  Cox 

and  the  Hon.  GERALD  LASCELLES.  With  76  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo. 
10*.  Gd. 

CRICKET.  By  A.  G.  STEEL  and  the  Hon.  R.  H.  LYTTEL- 

TON.  With  Contributions  by  ANDREW  LANG,  R.  A.  H.  MITCHELL,  W.  O. 
GRACE,  and  F.  GALE.  With  64  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

CYCLING.    By  VISCOUNT  BUKY,  K.C.M.G.  (the  Earl 

of  Albemarle),  and  G.  LACY  HILIIEH.  With  89  Illustrations.  Crown 
8vo.  10*.  6d. 

DRIVING.     By  His  Grace  the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT, 

K.G.    With  65  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

FENCING,  BOXING,  and  WRESTLING.  By  WALTER 

H.  POLLOCK,  F.  o.  GROVE,  C.  PREVOST,  E.  B.  MITCHELL,  and  WALTER 
ARMSTHONG.  With  42  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

FISHING.     By  H.  CHOLMONDELEY-PENNELL.    With 

Contributions  by  the  MARQUIS  OF  EXETEB,  HENRY  R.  FRANCIS,  Major 

JOHN  P.  TKAHKMNK,  FREDERIC  M.  HALFORD,  <tc. 
Vol.    I.  Salmon  and  Trout.    158  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo~.' 10*.  6  f. 
Vol.11.  Pike  and  other  Coarse  Fish.    133  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

GOLF.    By  HORACE  G.  HUTCHINSON,  the  Right  Hon. 

A.  J.  BALFOUR,  M.P.  Sir  WALTER  G.  SIMPSON,  Bart.  LORD  WELLWOOD, 
H.  S.  C.  EVERARD,  ANDREW  LANG,  and  other  Writers.  With  89  Illustra- 
tions. Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d.  [OVER 

London :    LONGMANS,  GREEN,  &  CO. 


THE  BADMINTON  LIBRARY. 

Edited  by  the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT,  K.G.  and  A.  E.T.  WATSON. 


HUNTING.     By  the  DUKE   OF  BEAUFORT,  K.G.  and 

MOWBRAY  MORRIS.  With  Contributions  by  the  EARL  OF  SCFFOLK  AND 
BERKSHIRE,  Rev.  B.  W.  L.  DAVIES,  DIG  BY  COLLINS,  Sir  MARTEINE  LLOYD. 
GEORGE  H.  LONGMAN-,  J.  C.  GIBBONS,  and  ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON.  With 
60  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

MOUNTAINEERING.     By  C.  T.  DENT,  with  Contri- 

butions  by  W.  M.  CONWAY,  D.  W.  FRESHFIELD,  C.  B.  MATHEWS,  C. 
PILKINGTOX,  Sir  F.  POLLOCK,  H.  G.  WILLIXK,  aad  an  Introduction  by 
Mr.  JUSTICE  WILLS.  With  108  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  los.  6d. 

RACING  AND  STEEPLE-CHASING.     Eacing :  By 

the  EARL  OF  SUFFOLK  AND  BERKSHIRE  and  W.  G.  GRAVEN'.  With  a 
Contribution  by  the  Hon.  F.  LAWLEY.  Steeple-chasing  :  By  ARTHUR 
COVENTRY  and  ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON.  With  58  Illustrations.  Crown 
8vo.  10s.  Qd. 

RIDING    AND   POLO.     By  Captain   ROBERT  WEIR, 

Riding  Master,  R.H.G.  and  J.  MORAY  Buowx.  With  Contrioutions  by 
the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT,  the  EARL  OF  SUFFOLK  AXD  BERKSHIRE,  the 
EARL  OF  ONSLOW,  E.  L.  ANDERSON,  and  ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON.  With 
59  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

SHOOTING.     By  LORD  WALSINGHAM  and  Sir  RALPH 

PAYNE-GALL\VEY,  Bart.     With  Contributions  by  LORD  LOVAT,  LORD 

CHARLES  LENNOX  KERR,  A.  J.  STUART-  \YORTLEY,  &o. 
Vol.    I.  Fiell  and  Covert.    With  105  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 
Vol.  II.  Moor  and  Marsa.     With  65  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo.  10s.  64. 

SKATING,  CURLING,  TOBOGGANING,  and  other 

ICE  SPORTS.  By  J.  M.  HEATHCOTE,  C.  G.  TEBBUTT,  T.  MAXWELL 
WIT  HAM,  the  Rev.  JOHN  KERR,  OHMOXD  HAKE,  and  HENRY  A.  BUCK. 
With  284  Illustrations.  Crown  8fo.  10*.  6<Z. 

SWIMMING.     By  ARCHIBALD  SINCLAIR  and  WILLIAM 

HENRY,  Hon.  Sees,  of  the  Life-Saving  Society.  With  119  Illustrations. 
Crown  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

TENNIS,  LAWN  TENNIS,  RACKETS,  and  FIVES. 

By  J.  M.  and  C.  G.  HEATHCOTE,  B.  O.  PLEYDELL-BOUVERIE,  and  A.  C. 
AINGER.  With  Contributions  by  the  Hoa.  A.  LYTTELTOS,  W.  C. 
MARSHALL,  Miss  L.  DODD,  H.  W.  W.  WILBERFORCK,  H.  F.  LAWFOHD,  &c. 
With  79  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

YACHTING.    By  Sir  EDWARD  SULLIVAN,  Bart.,  LORD 

BRASSEY,  K.C.B.  C.  E.  SETH-SMITH,  C.B.  R.  T.  PRITCIIETT,  the  EARL  OF 

ONSLOW,  G.C.M.G.  &c. 
Vol.  I.  Cruising.  Construction,   Racing   Bules,   Fitting-out,   &c.     With   114 

Illustrations.    Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 
Vol.  II.  Yacht  Clubs,  Yachting  in  America  and  the  Colonies,  Yacht  Racing, 

&c.    With  195  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

London:  LONGMANS,  GREEN,  &  CO. 


Sic 

-2  n    c-  THE  LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 

P  iZ    J\A  *2  Santa  Barbara 


THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  ON  THE  LAST  DATE 
STAMPED  BELOW. 


Series  9482 


3  1205  00767  8780 


