CK^v^vg/v^V5JAg/v«yx*J/v»yv»>v«»yvj{/vgyv«iyvgy\gyvg^ 


I  PRINCESS  ANNE  COOK  BOOK  « 

3i>  PUBLISHED  BY  *  f>g 

§»  W6mAN'S  club  of  princess  ANNE  COUNTY  # 


Food  Well  Prepared 


lities  lofflpaoy 


^^y 


,^. 


t.  IS  BEST 

I   PREPARED  WITH  GAS   t 

#»  Meals  Cooked  and  Served  Quicker  «| 
§»  It  Heats  in  One  Half  the  Time  C^ 

#  It  is  Convenient  4 


t*  During  the  Coming  Winter  *f 

t*  Will  Positively  be  Ready  for  You  Next  Season  ^^ 


|i  It  Costs  Less 


m     We  Guarantee  that  Gas  will  be  Installed      ^r^ 


K        Town  arid  County        i 


s  H  0     •  /t  ff^ 


t;  CLIFFORD  HOSIER,        .        .        .        .         President  'S 


REASONS  WHY 

FRIGIDAIRE 

IS  THE 

OverAvhelming  Choice 


1. 

"Cold  Control" 

2. 

"Hydrator" 

3. 

Concealed  Mechanism 

4. 

Quiet  Operation 

5. 

Elevated  Food  Compartment 

6. 

Beautiful  Cabinets 

7. 

Surplus  Power 

8. 

Fast  Freezing 

9. 

Low  Prices 

10. 

Easy  'I'erms 

I- 

1 
j 
I 
t 


FRIGIDAIRE 

PRODUCT  OF   GENERAL  MOTOR9 

R.  F.  TRANT,  Inc.         \ 

DISTRIBUTOR 

Monticello  Ave.  and  Princess  Anne  Road,  Norfolk,  Va. 


FULLER  BRUSHES 

69  Uses       Head-to-Foot       Cellar-to-Attic 

I  HOUSEKEEPING 

j  The  World's  Greatest  Industry 
i 

I  More  than  twenty  million  women   in 

I  the  United  States  alone  are  engaored  in 

I  this   great    industry.     To  simplify  the 

I  many  '  problems    of    their    work    the 

i  Fuller  Brush  Company  has  designed 

j  a  very  complete  set  of  cleaning  tools, 

I  and  of  course,    there  are   the  Fuller 

I  Brushes  for  personal  use  which  bring 
summer  comfort  and  year  round  health. 


I 


J 


I  Fuller   Products    are   sold    only    by    Fuller 

Brush  men  in  your  home.   The  Fuller  man 

\\  ho  calls  on  you  is  a  resident  of  your  com- 
munity. He  is  a  man  you  will  be  glad  to  know 
and  who  you  can  admit  with  confidence.  If 
you  wish  to  get  in  touch  with  him  before  his 
next  regular  call.  Write  or  phone  the  follow- 
ing address. 


I 


THE  FULLER  BRUSH  CO. 

80-f  Royster   Building 
Norfolk,  Va. 

Fp  are  Sold  n  ii  Who  Call  at 

uller    Orushes     Only  by  Puller  ifien     Your   Home 


ATLANTIC 
UNIVERSITY 

VIRGINIA  BEACH,  VIRGINIA 

First  Session  Begins  September    22,  1930 

Courses  leading  to  the  degrees  of  Bachelor 
of  Arts  and  Bachelor  of  Science  as 
well  as  to  the  higher  degrees 

Pre-Medical  Course 
Pre-Law  Course 
Pre-Engineering  Course 
Liberal  Arts  Course 
Fine  Arts  Course 

Departments  of  Languages,  English,  History,  Political  Science, 

Economics,  Philosophy,  Psychology,  Mathematics, 

Biology,  Chemistry,  Physics,  Astronomy, 

Art,   Dramatics,  Puhlic  Speaking, 

Physical    Education. 

Men  and  Women  Admitted  on  Equal  Terms 

Charges  for  the  Session,  Including  Tuition 
and  other  Fees,  $175.00 

j  Dormitories  for  Men  and  Women  i 

I  t 


j   For  further  information  address  | 

I 
! 


'  WILLIAM  MOSELEY  BROWN,  President 


HOTEL  CHALFONTE 


On  Ocean  Front 


1 


Noted  For  It's  Cuisine 


( 

Old  Southern  Cooking  j 

f 
j 

i 

i 


S.  K.  HOBECK  &  SON,  Inc.  I 

Plumbing-Heating  j 

Electric  Refrigeration  i 

OIL  BURNERS  | 

PYROFAX-GAS  | 

Phone  153  Virginia  Beach,  Va.  | 


i  Compliments  of  I 

i  i 

I  WILSON  W.  VELLINES  \ 

I  NORFOLK,  VA. 


Compliments  of 


Seaboard  Creameries 


Incorporated 


PRODUCERS  OF 


AUTO  C  RAT  I 

ThelceCreatthacisBeUeJ 


REAL 


Cavalier  Shores 


Phone  498 


Virginia  Beach,  Va. 


..— « 


f 

I 

I 

i 
I 

WITH  THE  COMPLIMENTS  I 

I 
AND  i 


BEST  WISHES  OF 

THE  CAVALIER 
HOTEL 


Compliments  of 

The  Virginia  Bank 
and  Trust  Co.,  Inc. 

VIRGINIA  BEACH,  VA. 


f 

Good  Cooks  Know  that  the  Results  of  \ 

Their  Efforts  Depend  on  QUALITY  | 

I 
I 

Therefore  They  f 


I 


Concentrate  Their  Buying  At  | 

I 
\ 

\    D.  P.  Stores    i 

- 

I      TIDEWATER'S  OWN  CHAIN      I 

I. I 

1^ j 

I  I 

I  ! 

I  J 

^  I 

I  H.  D.  OLIVER  I 


I 

I 

I 

610-612  East  Freemason  Street  I 

NORFOLK,   VIRGINIA  j 

I 

1 


Compliments  of 

MENALCUS  LANKFORD 

Republican  Candidate 
for  Re-election  to  Congress 


DOUBLE  STRENGTH 

I  GILL'S 

HOTEL  SPECIAL 

COFFEE 

TRULY  DELICIOUS 


Use  the  Norfolk   Berkley  Bridge  for  Economy 


^   .  ,,„  TIME 
SAVE  TIRES 

Short  Direct  Route  to  the  Heart 
of  Norfolk 


Norfolk-Berkley  Bridge  Corp. 

Established  1911  Phone  363 

W.  T.  JARVIS 

VIRGINIA  BEACH,  VIRGINIA 

DEPENDABLE  INSURANCE 

FIRE,  THEFT,  AUTOMOBILE 

Fidelity  Suret\^  Bonds     Nothing  too  Large,  Nothing  too  Small 

THE  HYGEIA 

I 

VIRGINIA   BEACH,    VA.  | 

I 

1  On  Ocean  Front  Attractive  Rates  j 

MRS.  J.  E.  DYER  1 


INTRODUCTION 


HIS  BOOK  nas  been  -Oer^  carefully 
compiled  from  the  best  recipes  given 
as  favorites  of  good  practical  cooks 
tnruout  tne  country. 

Its  use  in  3)our  kitchen  -will  pro- 
mote thrift  and  will  save  not  only  time  and  steps 
but  pennies.     Pennies  into  dollars  grov?. 

Especiall}?  in  the  last  fev?  years  the  women  of 
America  have  learned  to  practice  thrift  in  the 
kitchen.  With  the  adjustment  of  prices  these 
thrifty  methods  continued  will  save  not  only  food 
but  money. 

A  dollar  saved  is  a  dollar  earned.  Bank  your 
dollars  and  watch  them  v?ork  for  you  to  earn 
more  dollars. 

Remember  v^e  are  al^^?ays  at  your  service  and 
are  anxious  to  help  you  in  any  financial  dealings 
or  investments. 

Please  accept  this  book  with  our  compliments 
as  an  evidence  of  our  good  will  and  a  desire  to  be 
of  further  service. 


INDEX 

Page 

Beverages  6i 

Biscuits  29 

Bread 27 

Butters  and  INIarmalades 56 

Candy   62 

Cakes,  Frostings  and  Fillings 44 

Cheese 23 

Cookies   43 

Croquettes    13 

Eggs  and  Omelettes 21 

General  Suggestions 64 

Fish  and  Oysters 5 

Griddle  Cakes  and  Fritters 24 

Ice  Cream  and  Sherbets 53 

Jellies  and  Jams 55 

Meats 9 

Miscellaneous 63 

Muffins  and  Gems 26 

Pastry  and  Pies 32 

Pickles  and  Catsups 57 

Puddings  and  Sauces 36 

Rolls   30 

Salads 18 

Salad  Dressing 20 

Sandwiches  and  Filling 23 

Sauces  for  Fish 8 

Soups 3 

Vegetables   ■> 14 


SOUPS 


The  first  requisite  for  good  soup  is  stock  which  is  made  from  the  cheaper 
cuts  of  beef,  chicken,  or  veal.  Two  pounds  of  meat  and  one  of  bone  to  each 
quart  of  water  is  a  good  proportion.  It  should  simmer  slowly  in  a  tightly 
covered  kettle  for  a  few  hours.  The  plain  stock  may  be  made  in  quantity  and 
kept  indefinitely  in  a  cold  place.    It  may  be  used  as  the  basis  of  any  soup. 

CREAM  SOUPS. — Boil  1  quart  of  milk,  seasoning  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
1  saltspoon  white  pepper.  Thicken  with  two  tablespoons  flour  and  1  of  butter 
rubbed  to  a  cream  with  a  cup  of  boiling  water;  add  thickening  to  boiling  milk 
and  boil  two  minutes.  This  is  the  foundation  for  many  fish  and  vegetable  cream 
soups. 

A  pint  of  green  peas,  boiled,  mashed,  and  added,  or  spinach  or  asparagus 
can  be  used — salmon,  about  1  pound  is  good.  For  cream  of  celery,  boil  1  pint 
of  cut  celery  till  tender,  add  to  boiling  milk  and  rub  through  the  sieve  before 
adding  thickening.  For  potato  soup  use  6  large  or  10  medium  potatoes,  boiled 
and  mashed  fine,  then  stirred  into  the  milk  and  strained,  a  large  tablespoon  of 
chopped  parsley  lightly  stirred  in.  For  corn  soup  use  milk  without  straining, 
adding  a  can  of  corn  (chopped)  or  corn  cut  from  6  ears  boiled  fresh  with  an 
even  tablespoon  of  sugar  10  minutes.  Salsify  can  also  be  used  and  combina- 
tions are  numberless. 

BEAN  SOUP. — Soak  quart  white  beans  over-night;  in  morning  pour  off 
water;  add  fresh,  and  set  over  fire  until  skins  will  easily  slip  off;  throw  them 
into  cold  water,  rub  well,  and  skins  will  rise  to  top,  where  they  may  be  removed. 
Boil  beans  till  perfectly  soft,  allowing  2  quarts  water  to  1  quart  beans;  mash 
beans,  add  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together,  also  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  cold 
bread  into  small  pieces,  toast  in  oven,  and  drop  on  soup  when  you  serve. 

CLAM  SOUP. — Twenty-five  large  clams,  1  cup  boiled  milk,  1  blade  mace, 
pepper  to  taste,  place  cleaned  clams  in  a  deep  kettle,  add  1  cup  cold  water; 
cover.  When  the  clams  can  be  easily  removed,  skim  out,  drain  off  the  liquor. 
To  4  cups  of  broth  add  2  cups  hot  water,  the  mace  and  pepper,  let  boil,  add 
clams  chopped  fine.  Place  kettle  on  back  of  range  to  reduce  temperature,  then 
add  the  hot  milk.  This  is  to  prevent  curdling;  the  milk  must  be  the  hottest. 
— ^Mrs.  Henry  Bauer,  Newark,  N.  J. 

CLAM  CH01\T)ER.— Fry  out  1  lb.  salt  pork,  chop  fine  6  large  onions, 
6  tomatoes,  6  large  potatoes,  35  clams,  add  1  teaspoonful  thyme,  %  cup  chopped 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  juice  of  clams  and  water  enough  to  cover 
all  well.    Boil  3  or  4  hours. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Willis,  Brooklyn. 

CLAM  CHOWDER  FOR  SIX  PEOPLE.— Four  large  potatoes  cut  in  small 
squares,  2  onions  and  Va,  lb.  salt  pork  cut  fine.  Put  onions  and  pork  in  pot, 
brown  them,  add  liquor  of  1  qt.  hard  shell  clams  and  some  water,  let  it  boil, 
then  add  potatoes  and  a  qt.  can  tomatoes,  boil  again,  then  remove  to  a  slow  fire, 
add  pepper,  salt,  a  little  thyme  and  then  add  clams,  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  F. 
Mancher,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CELERY  SOUP.— Small  head  of  celery,  cut  up  and  1  qt.  of  water.  Boil  until 
tender  with  a  little  salt.  When  tender,  mash  through  a  strainer  into  the  same 
water.  Pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  let  boil  with  1  onion  in  it.  After 
flavored  with  onion,  remove  it  and  pour  the  celery  and  water  into  the  milk. 
Table  spoon  flour,  tablespoon  butter.  Mix  together  and  thicken  the  soup  with 
it.— Mrs.  Hildebrant,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CORN  SOUP.— Take  1  can  of  corn  to  a  qt.  of  milk,  put  in  double  boiler; 
boil  %  hour;  take  off  and  strain;  then  in  a  separate  spider  put  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  2  of  flour;  cook  until  smooth;  then  stir  into  soup,  adding  pepper 
and  salt.  Beat  up  an  egg  and  put  in  just  before  serving. — Mrs.  C.  G.  O.,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 


Mint  will  grow  in  water  like  many  other  plants  if  given  plenty 

of  air  and  sun 

3 


CREAM  OF  VEGETABLE  SOUP.— One  and  one-half  cups  diced  raw  pota- 
toes, 1  cup  carrot.  1  cup  celery,  4  tablespoons  onion,  1  tablespoon  parsley,  1  bay 
leaf.  Cook  all  but  the  potatoes  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter  for  10  minutes.  Then 
add  potatoes  and  cook  2  minutes.  Then  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
tender.  Just  before  serving,  season  to  taste  and  add  2  cups  of  hot  milk. — Mrs. 
Hildebrant,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CROUTONS.— Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  Vz  inch  thick,  cut  off  the  crusts  and 
divide  the  slices  into  Vz  inch  cubes.  Place  them  on  a  tin  sheet  and  bake  them 
until  golden  brown.  Serve  with  stews  and  soups. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Marsh,  Westfield, 
N.  J. 

LOBSTER  SOUP.— One  lobster,  or  1  can  of  lobster,  chopped  fine,  1  qt.  milk, 
1  qt.  boiling  water,  Vz  cup  cracker  crumbs,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  cayenne 
and  salt.  Simmer  the  coral  and  soft  part  of  the  lobster  5  minutes  in  the  boiling 
water,  put  the  chopped  lobster  and  cracker  crumbs  into  a  saucepan,  pour  the 
red  water  over  them,  heat  to  a  boil,  then  add  pepper,  salt  and  the  butter. 
Simmer  covered  Vz  hour,  do  not  scorch,  scald  milk  with  a  pinch  of  soda  in 
another  vessel,  and  after  the  lobster  is  in  the  tureen  pour  this  in,  boiling  hot. 
Sliced  lemon  may  be  served  with  the  soup. — Mrs.  R.  C.  Rich,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

POTATO  SOUP. — 2  qts.  water,  1  qt.  potatoes.  When  cooked  run  through  a 
sieve,  then  add  1  cup  sweet  cream  and  a  small  piece  of  butter;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.— Ida  R.  Hulshizer,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PEA  SOUP.— Soak  1  qt.  of  split  peas  over  night.  Next  day  add  3  qts.  of 
water  to  the  peas,  2  onions,  1  large  carrot,  1  large  parsnip,  1  lb.  pork,  a  piece 
of  beef  from  the  shin.  Cut  vegetables  fine  and  cook  from  3  to  4  hours.  When 
done  season  with  a  little  mint  rubbed  fine. — Sarah  Vautin,  Brooklyn. 

TOMATO  BISQUE.— 1  qt.  of  tomato,  stew  good,  then  strain.  Place  on 
range  and  cook  again,  add  not  quite  Vz  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  pt.  of  milk  or  little 
more,  let  it  get  hot,  but  don't  scorch  it.  Add  it  to  tomato  (be  sure  soda  is  in). 
Then' thicken  milk  with  flour  and  water.  If  it  isn't  smooth  strain  before  you 
serve  it.  Season  when  on  table,  as  salt  makes  it  curdle.  Little  butter  improves 
it.— Mrs.  J.  G.  Ten  Eyck,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

TOMATO  SOUP.— Put  1  qt.  of  canned  tomatoes  and  1  qt.  of  water  in  a  stew 
pan;  add  2  teaspoonfuls  salt;  %  teaspoonful  pepper,  4  whole  cloves  and  a  piece 
of  cinnamon  about  4  inches  long.  Let  this  boil  for  Vz  hour.  Into  a  frying  pan 
put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  4  tablespoonfuls  minced  onion,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  minced  carrot,  1  tablespoon  of  minced  celery,  1  bunch  of  parsley.  Cook 
slowly  for  20  minutes.  Add  this  to  the  soup  and  cook  for  10  minutes.  Strain. 
Return  to  the  fire  and  add  tablespoonful  of  meat  extract,  1  teaspoonful  sugar 
and  3  tablespoonfuls  flour,  mixed  in  Vz  pt.  of  water.  Cook  slowly  for  10  minutes 
and  serve. — Mrs.  N.  Miller,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

TURKEY  SOUP.— One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  slice  of  onion,  3  stalks  of 
celery,  1  cupful  of  cream,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Chop  the  onion  and  brown  in  butter.  Add  the  turkey,  carcass  and  any  dressing 
left  over,  cover  with  1  quart  of  cold  water  and  simmer  for  2  hours.  Strain, 
return  the  broth  to  the  kettle.  Chop  whatever  meat  can  be  taken  from  the 
turkey  bones  very  fine,  and  add  to  the  broth  with  the  rice  and  celery  also 
chopped  fine.  Cook  for  %  hour  or  until  the  rice  and  celery  are  tender.  Add 
the  cream,  season  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  Bull,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


When  popping  corn  put  in  enough  corn  to  cover  the  bottom  of 
a  wire  popper,  then  drench  with  water  just  before  placing  over 
the  fire.  Every  grain  will  pop  and  much  more  quickly  than  with- 
out the  added  moisture. 


VEAL  SOUP. — Cook  a  knuckle  of  veal  covered  with  cold  water,  let  it  sim- 
mer 2  hours,  remove  the  veal,  add  rice  to  the  broth;  when  rice  is  soft  add  a  few 
sprigs  of  parsley  and  season  to  taste.— Mrs.  Baker,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

VEGETABLE  SOTJP^— Take  21/^  lbs.  of  soup  bone,  cover  with  hot  water, 
season  and  cook  for  %  hour;  then  add  %  cup  rice,  1  stalk  celery,  2  carrots,  2 
onions,  %  small  turnip,  and  6  potatoes  ^  hour  before  done.  Cut  vegetables  in 
small  cubes.  Ten  minutes  before  serving  add  parsley.  Cook  from  3  to  4  hours. 
—Mrs.  E,  A.  Keegan,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

FISH  AND  OYSTERS 

Fish  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  and  split  low  enough  so  as  not  to 
have  any  blood  on  backbone,  but  not  so  deep  that  it  will  spoil  the  appearance 
of  your  fish.  Be  careful  not  to  break  the  gall  as  this  will  make  the  fish  bit- 
ter. Use  good  dripping,  preferably  bacon,  or  lard  for  frjang.  Dip  fish  in  flour 
or  cracker  crumbs  before  frying. 

TO  BKOIL  FISH.— Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  dry.  Split  so  that  when  laid 
flat  the  backbone  will  be  in  the  middle,  or  take  the  backbone  out.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  lay,  inside  down,  upon  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire  un- 
til it  is  nicely  colored,  then  turn.  When  done,  put  upon  a  hot  dish,  butter 
plentifully,  and  pepper.    Put  a  hot  cover  over  it  and  send  it  to  the  table. 

BOILED  BASS,  OR  OTHER  FISH.— Put  sufficient  water  in  pot  to  enable 
fish,  if  alive,  to  swim  easily.  Add  Vz  cup  vinegar,  I  teaspoon  salt,  1  onion,  1 
dozen  whole  black  peppers,  1  blade  mace.  Sew  up  fish  in  piece  of  clean  net 
or  muslin,  fitted  to  shape.  Heat  slowly  for  first  Vz  hour;  then  boil  8  minutes 
at  least,  to  finish. 

BROILED  SALT  MACKEREL.— Freshen  by  soaking  it  overnight  in  water, 
taking  care  that  the  skin  lies  uppermost.  In  the  morning  dry  it  without 
breaking,  cut  off  the  head  and  tip  of  the  tail,  place  it  between  the  bars  of  a 
buttered  fish-gridiron,  and  broil  to  a  light  brown;  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
dress  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice,  vinegar,  or  chopped 
pickle. 

BROILED  HALIBUT.— Slices  of  halibut,  salt,  pepper,  butter.  Cut  the 
slices  of  fish  about  an  inch  thick,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  lay  them 
in  melted  butter  ^^  hour,  allowing  3  tablespoons  of  butter  to  a  pound  of  fish, 
then  roll  them  in  flour,  and  broil  about  20  minutes.     Serve  very  hot. 

BROILED  OYSTERS.— Select  good  sized  oysters;  drain  off  the  liquor; 
roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs;  place  on  broiler;  when  brown  take  off;  add  to 
each  a  little  butter. — Mrs.  Richard  Duykinck,  Somerville,  N.  J. 

BAKED  FISH. — Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  onion,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  1  tablespoonful  of  suet,  pepper,  salt 
and  1  egg  beaten  thoroughly,  and  a  little  parsley.  Stuff  the  fish  and  sew  or 
tie  securely.  Bake  in  pan  with  hot  water,  laying  pieces  of  pork  on  top,  sea- 
soning with  salt  and  pepper.     Baste  very  often. — Mrs.  F.  Mancher,  Brookljm. 

BAKED  FISH.— Excellent.  Rub  the  fish  with  salt;  fill  it  with  stuffing 
and  sew  the  edges  together;  cut  gashes  on  each  side  across  the  fish,  then  put 
strip  of  fat  pork  in  the  gashes;  grease  the  fish  with  tin  sheet;  place  fish  on 
it;  place  fish  in  baking  pan  with  a  few  pieces  of  pork  fat.  Baste  often.  It  is 
cooked  when  the  fish  separates  form  the  bone.     Serve  with  sauce. 


Too  much  pepper  in  soup  can  be  counteracted  by  pouring  into  the 

soup  a  cup  of  milk 


stuffing. — 1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  little  salt,'  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  onion 
juice,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  pickles,  V4.  lb.  of 
butter. 

Sauce. — 1  pt.  of  water,  a  small  onion  chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  1  teaspoonful  flour  moistened  in  water,  1  teaspoonful  butter  and  1  tea- 
spoonful vinegar  or  lemon  Juice. — Mrs.  M.  C.  McMillan,  Allegheny,  Pa. 

BAKED  CANNED  SALMON.— Freshen  by  pouring  over  contents  of  1  can 
of  salmon,  3  cups  of  cold  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  up  lightly  2 
eggs;  stir  into  fish  after  it  has  drained  and  cooled.  Add  i^  cup  of  cream  (or 
milk  and  a  little  butter)  and  a  little  salt.  Put  in  individual  baking  dishes 
and  sprinkle  over  with  rolled  crackers.  Bake  %  hour. — Mrs.  T.  H.  McMichael, 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

TO  BOIL  LOBSTERS  OR  CRABS.— The  lobster  is  in  good  season  from 
April  to  December,  ^d  should  be  purchased  alive  and  plunged  into  boiling 
water  in  which  a  good  proportion  of  salt  has  been  mixed.  Continue  to  boil 
according  to  size  about  20  minutes.  Crabs  should  be  boiled  in  the  same  man- 
ner, but  a  little  more  than  half  the  time  is  necessary. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS,  NO.  1— To  %  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted  in  a 
sauce  pan,  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  and  stir 
in  gradually  1  cup  of  hot  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Take  1  pt.  of 
oysters,  boil  them  in  their  own  liquor  until  plump,  then  drain  and  pour  over 
them  the  sauce. — Mrs.  S.  M.  Burhans,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS,  NO.  2 One  and  one-half  qt.  oysters,  boil  till  they 

shrivel;  1  pt.  milk,  Vz  pt.  cream,  3  tablespoons  real  fine  celery,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  thicken  with  cornstarch. — Mrs.  Windfeldt,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CODFISH  BALLS. — Remove  from  the  fish  all  the  bones  that  you  can 
find.  Cut  both  fish  and  potato  fine,  then  take  1  cup  of  salt  fish,  2  cups  of  po- 
tato, 2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  1  egg,  season 
with  pepper.  Make  into  cakes  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  pork  or  cottolene. — 
Mrs.  J.  Whithers,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

DETILED  CLAMS. — Chop  1  onion  and  a  little  parsley  fine  and  brown  In 
a  large  tablespoon  of  butter.  Chop  25  clams  fine.  Cook  clams  chopped  fine 
with  onion  and  butter  until  about  dry.  Add  to  this  1  pt.  bread  crumbs,  which 
have  been  soaked  in  milk  until  quite  moist.  Add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  and  1  egg  beaten  light.  Fill  shells  and  put  in  oven 
to  brown.     This  will  make  16  or  17  shells. — Mrs.  Hildebrant,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

DEVILED  CRABS.— The  chopped  meat  from  12  crabs;  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter;  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk;  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs;  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  fiour;  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley;  1  teaspoonful  of  salt;  cayenne 
pepper  to  taste.  Scald  the  cream.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  until 
smooth,  add  to  the  scalded  cream  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  the 
fire,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  mashed  fine,  the  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix 
well;  add  the  crab  meat  carefully,  for  if  stirred  it  makes  the  mixture  stringy 
and  pasty.  Fill  the  cleaned  crab  shells,  dip  the  whole  thing,  shell  and  all,  in 
egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry,  like  croquettes,  in  smoking  hot  fat. — Mrs. 
Petherbridge,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


Warm  the  knife  board  well  before  cleaning  your  knives.    This 

saves  time 


FRIED  OYSTERS. — Select  largest  and  finest  oysters.  Drain  and  wipe 
them  by  spreading  upon  cloth,  laying  another  over  them,  pressing  lightly. 
Roll  each  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  with  which  has  been  mixed 
a  very  little  pepper.     Fry  in  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter. 

LOBSTER  NEWBURG One  pt.  can  for  8  persons.     Put  about  V2   pt.   of 

cream  on  stove,  with  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten.  Stir  constantly  until 
it  thickens;  add  lobster  and  seasoning.  When  well  heated  it  is  done.  Serve 
in  small  dishes  or  fluted  pepper  cases. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Sexton,  Monmouth,  111. 

LITTLE  PIGS  IN  BLANKETS.— Season  large  oysters  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; cut  bacon  in  thin  slices;  wrap  an  oyster  in  each  slice  and  fasten  with  a 
wooden  toothpick.  Heat  a  frying  pan  and  put  in  the  little  pigs.  Cook  long 
enough  to  crisp  the  bacon.  Place  on  pieces  of  toast  cut  in  small  pieces  and 
serve  immediately.    Don't  remove  the  skewers. — Mrs.  F.  Coates,  Jr. 

OYSTER  LOAF.— Take  French  rolls;  cut  the  tops  off,  remove  the  inside 
and  dry  the  shells  in  a  hot  oven.  Then  fill  with  the  creamed  oysters.  Re- 
place the  tops,  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley;  serve  smoking  hot. — C.  J. 
Sunkey,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

OYSTER  PATTIES.— Make  rich  pie  crust,  roll  thin  and  cut  with  a  bis- 
cuit cutter;  around  the  edge  curl  a  narrow  strip  of  crust,  then  bake.  Fill- 
ing: Let  1  pt.  of  cream  come  to  a  boil,  and  add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mixed 
smooth  with  1  of  butter,  and  season  to  taste.  Let  the  oysters  come  to  a  boil 
in  their  own  liquor,  then  skim  out  and  put  in  cream.  Fill  shells  and  serve. 
—Mrs.  F.  Coates,  Jr.,  Cranford,  N.  J. 

OYSTERS  AND  MACARONI.— Have  a  large  kettle  nearly  full  of  rapidly 
boiling  water,  salted.  Break  macaroni  in  2  or  3  inch  lengths,  drop  into  the 
water,  and  boil  until  tender  which  will  take  from  30  to  45  minutes.  Drain. 
Put  a  layer  in  bottom  of  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  another  layer 
of  macaroni  and  so  on,  filling  the  dish.  Add  oyster  liquor  last,  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs  and  bake. — Mrs.  G.  C.  Pearsall,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

OYSTERS  ON  TOAST.— Toast  slices  of  bread,  butter  and  lay  on  hollow 
dish.  Set  the  oyster  liquor  over  the  fire;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  just 
before  it  boils  add  the  oysters.  Let  them  boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the 
toast. — Mrs.  Robert  Duyckinck,  Lamington,  N.  J. 

OYSTER  DRESSING  FOR  TURKEY.— One  lb.  bread  crumbs,  add  2  stalks 
of  celery,  chopped  fine;  %  lb.  butter,  melted;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  add 
to  this  2  qts.  of  oysters,  strained  from  their  liquor.  When  oysters  are  mixed 
with  the  bread  add  enough  of  their  liquor  to  moisten  filling  well. — Miss  M.  B. 
Matthews,  Westfield,  N,  J. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS,  NO.  1.— Take  an  old  fashioned  earthen  dish  or 
pie  plate  an  inch  deep,  put  in  the  bottom  a  little  melted  butter  and  a  layer 
of  crushed  but  not  pulverized  salted  crackers,  then  a  layer  of  oysters;  sea- 
son with  salt,  mixed  with  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  pour  over  the  dish 
thick  rich  cream.  Add  crackers,  lumps  of  butter,  oysters  and  seasoning  un- 
til the  dish  is  full  and  over  the  last  layer  of  crackers  pour  cream  enough  to 
moisten  them.  Bake  ten  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven.  The  secret  of  good 
scalloped  oysters  lies  in  the  shallow  dish,  so  that  the  crumbs  rich  with  butter 
and  cream  may  be  crisped  with  the  cooking  and  the  oysters  not  over  cooked. 
They  should  be  served  immediately. — Miss  Briggs.  Westfield,  N.  J. 


To  clean  white  ivory  handles  cut  in  half  a  lemon,  dip  into  kitchen 
salt  and  rub  on  handles.  This  will  restore  their  original  appear- 
ance 


SCALLOPED  OYSTERS,  NO.  2.— One  pt.  oysters.  1  cup  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs,  1-3  cup  melted  butter,  salt,  pepper.  Prepare  the  oysters,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  the  crumbs  into  the  butter.  Grease  a  shallow 
dish,  put  in  l^  of  the  crumbs,  then  Vz  of  the  oysters,  then  crumbs.  Bake  30 
minutes,  or  until  crumbs  are  brown. — Miss  Bessie  Caskey,  Chicago,  III. 

SALMON  BALLS. — 1  can  salmon  picked  into  bits  and  mixed  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  a  little  milk  or  cream  and  butter. 
Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper;  bind  with  a  beaten  egg;  make  into 
cakes,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry. — S.  M.  T.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

SALMON  BALLS  NO.  2. — One  cup  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  cracker 
crumbs,  1  small  can  of  salmon,  1  cup  scalding  milk,  thickened  with  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  pour  over  the  crumbs  and  potatoes.  Two  eggs,  beaten 
separately,  and  stir  all  together.  Add  a  little  salt.  Let  the  mixture  cool; 
form  into  balls,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  like  doughnuts. — Mrs.  W.  C. 
Williamson,  Keokuk,  la. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES With  a  silver  fork  flake  the  contents  of  a  can 

of  salmon,  or  2  lbs.  of  fresh  salmon  into  bits,  removing  all  pieces  of  skin  and 
bone.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Cook  to- 
gether 1  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour,  and  when  they  bubble,  pour 
upon  them  1  cup  of  milk.  Stir  to  a  smooth  white  sauce.  Add  slowly  1  raw 
egg,  then  turn  in  the  salmon,  mixed  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  bread 
crumbs.  When  the  salmon  is  heated  remove  from  the  fire  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  When  cool  form  into  croquettes.  Roll  these  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs  and  set  in  the,  ice  box  for  an  hour  before  frying  in  deep  boiling  fat. — 
Mrs.  Anderson,  Cranford,  N.  J, 

SALMON  IN  COTILLE. — One  lb.  can  of  salmon,  which  makes  2  cups,  free 
from  skin,  oil  and  bones;  yolks  of  2  eggs;  beat  very  little;  14  teaspoon  of 
onion  juice,  ^^  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  paprika  or  cayenne,  a  little  nutmeg,  % 
teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  1%  cups  of  cream  sauce  (heat  1^  cups 
of  milk  and  stir  in  2  rounding  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1  of  butter,  which 
have  been  blended  together).  Mix  all  the  above  ingredients  and  put  in  but- 
tered shells,  or  cups,  or  in  a  pudding  dish;  sprinkle  over  it  buttered  crumbs 
and  bake. — M,  Copeland,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SALMON  LOAF, — Flake  a  can  of  salmon  fine  and  mix  with  2  cups  of 
bread  crumbs  and  2  eggs.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne,  onion  chopped  fine,  or 
onion  juice,  lemon  juice.  Form  into  a  loaf;  put  in  a  buttered  pan  and  bake 
1  hour;  cover  with  paper  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. — S.  M.  T. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH 


ALLEMANDE. SAUCE.— Same  as  white  sauce,  with  addition  of  2  raw  egg 

yolks  as  taken  from  fire. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. — 1  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  butter,  %  cup  each 
thin  cream  and  white  stock — chicken  or  veal — salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pre- 
pare same  manner  as  white  sauce. 

BREAD  SAUCE.— Cook  in  double  boiler  for  15  minutes  1  pint  milk,  2 
tablespoons  chopped  onion;  add  1  tablespoon  butter,  %  teaspoon  salt,  ^4  tea- 
spoon pepper,  and  rub  through  sieve.  Brown  1^  cup  coarse  dry  bread  crumbs  in 
1  tablespoon  butter  in  frj'ing-pan.    Add  these  to  sauce  as  it  goes  to  table. 


'Natural  Sugars'*  are  most  wholesome  for  children — dates, 
raisins,  figs,  honey 


BROWN  SAUCE. — In  sauce  pan  brown  1  tablespoon  butter  until  dark, 
but  not  burned.  Add  1  tablespoon  flour,  stir  and  brown  again.    Add  gradually 

1  cup  good  stock  (beef  is  best)  or  hot  water  and  stir  until  smooth  and  thick. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Simmer  5  minutes. 

CAPER  SAUCE. — 2  tablespoons  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour;  mix  well; 
pour  on  boiling  water  till  it  thickens;  add  1  hard-boiled  egg  chopped  fine, 
and  2  tablespoons  capers. 

CURRY  SAUCE. — Slowly  cook  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  in  1  table- 
spoon butter  5  minutes  without  coloring.     Add  1  teaspoon  curry  powder,  cook 

2  minutes,  add  1  cup  white  sauce,  cook  2  minutes  longer. 

SAUCE  PIQUANTE.— To  1  cup  brown  sauce  add  1  tablespoon  each  of 
chopped  capers  and  pickles  and  simmer  5  minutes. 

SAUCE  PIQUANTE  FOR  SHAD.— Six  tablespoons  melted  butter;  add  to 
it  3  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice  and  then  thicken  it  as  it  heats  (but  do  not 
boil  it)  with  two  egg  yolks.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  sweet  peppers. 
Strain  before  serving. — Mrs.  J.  A,  Smith,  Lamington,  N.  J. 


MEATS 


To  boil  fresh  meat.  Use  an  iron  or  heavy  kettle.  Put  piece  of  suet  in  pot 
and  let  fry  out.  When  smoking  hot  add  sliced  onion  and  meat.  Let  the  meat 
sizzle  for  3  or  4  minutes  on  each  side.  When  thoroughly  seared  add  just 
enough  water  to  cover  bottom  of  kettle.  Cover  tightly.  Too  much  water 
will  spoil  the  meat.  Let  it  cook  very  slowly  until  done  all  through.  Remove 
meat  from  kettle  to  platter  and  baste  with  butter.  Make  gravy  by  adding  a 
little  more  water,  and  one  tablespoon  of  flour  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Cook 
until  thick.  When  cooking  the  meat,  a  little  vinegar  added  will  make  the 
meat  tender. 

BEEF  LOAF.— Four  pounds  round  steak,  chopped  or  ground;  3  eggs,  8 
soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  butter  size  of  egg,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  milk;  use  either  sage,  celery  or  nutmeg  for  seasoning;  mix  as 
you  would  bread;  form  in  a  roll  and  bake  1  hour  and  a  half,  keeping  a  little 
water  in  the  pan. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Hoyt,  Owosso,  Mich. 

BEEF  LOAF. — Two  lbs.  chopped  beef,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  ^  tea- 
spoon of  pepper,  3  crackers,  rolled  fine.  Mix  well  together  with  the  hand, 
shape  into  a  loaf,  and  roll  in  cracker  dust.  Bake  in  half  inch  of  water  until 
done.     Baste  often. — Mrs.  Louis  Reed,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y, 

BEEF  LOAF. — Three  and  one-half  pounds  beef,  l^  pound  of  pork,  3  eggs, 
1  tablespoon  salt  and  1  of  pepper,  4  rolled  crackers,  1  tablespoon  cream,  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg.  Mix,  make  into  loaf;  roast  like  other  meat. — Mrs.  A.  Q. 
Ten  Eyck,  North  Branch,  N.  J. 

BEEF  SCALLOP. — Butter  an  earthen  pudding  dish  and  sprinkle  in  bot- 
tom a  thin  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  On  this  place  a  layer  of  chopped  roast 
beef  or  bits  of  any  cold  meat,  then  a  few  thin  slices  of  onions,  a  little  pars- 
ley and  a  few  bits  of  celery.  On  this  a  very  thin  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes, 
salt,  pepper,  a  dash  of  paprika  and  bits  of    butter,  then    another    layer    of 


Lemons  should  be  packed  in  a  jar  of  sand  if  you  do  not  wish  them 

to  shrink 


crumbs.   Repeat  until  dish  is  filled,  having  layer  of  crumbs  on  top;  then  pour 
over  the  meat. 

BAKED  MUTTON  CHOPS  AND  POTATOES.— Wash  and  peel  some  good 
potatoes  and  cut  them  into  slices  the  thickness  of  a  penny  piece.  The  quan- 
tity of  potatoes  must,  of  course,  be  decided  according  to  the  number  of 
persons  to  whom  they  have  to  be  served;  allow  2  or  3  for  each  person.  After 
the  potatoes  are  sliced  wash  them  in  2  or  3  waters  to  thoroughly  cleanse 
them;  then  arrange  them  neatly  in  a  stone  dish  proper  for  baking  purposes. 
Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  cold  water  to  pre- 
vent them  from  burning.  Place  the  dish  in  a  very  hot  oven,  so  as  to  brown 
the  potatoes  in  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready  some  nice  loin  chops  (say  1  for 
each  person)  trim  off  most  of  the  fat;  make  them  into  a  neat  round  shape  by 
putting  a  small  skewer  through  each.  When  the  potatoes  are  nicely  browned 
remove  the  dish  from  the  oven  and  place  the  chops  on  top.  Add  a  little 
more  salt  and  pepper  and  water  if  required,  and  return  the  dish  to  the  oven, 
where  it  may  remain  until  sufficiently  cooked,  which  will  be  in  about  %  of  an 
hour.  When  the  upper  sides  of  the  chops  are  a  nice  brown  turn  them  over 
so  as  to  brown  the  other  side.  If  in  the  cooking  the  potatoes  appear  to  be 
getting  too  dry  a  little  more  hot  water  may  be  added,  gently  poured  in  at 
one  corner  of  the  dish. — Mrs.  C.  W.  Crowe,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y, 

BKEADED  VEAL  AND  PORK  CHOPS.— Beat  2  eggs  very  light,  dip  the 
chop  in  this  a  piece  at  a  time,  so  as  to  cover  both  sides  with  the  egg,  then 
roll  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  fry  in  half  butter  and  lard  un- 
til a  nice  brown.  Veal  will  taste  much  like  chicken  fixed  this  way.  —  M.  J. 
Howe,  Kingston,  N.  Y. 

CREAMED  VEAL. — Four  pounds  of  lean  veal,  first  boil,  then  when  cool 
cut  in  small  pieces;  3  pints  of  cream  and  milk  together,  add  %  pound  of  but- 
ter creamed  in  a  cup  of  flour.  Put  the  cream  and  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  stir 
in  butter  and  flour.  2  cans  of  mushrooms  cooked  in  the  water  they  come  in, 
then  when  tender  skim  them  off,  put  them  in  the  meat,  then  salt  and  pepper. 
Stir  the  gravy  in  the  meat.  Put  in  a  square  tin,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on 
top  and  bake  to  a  light  brown,  about  twenty  minutes. — E.  Jordon,  Chicago,  111. 

CORNED  BEEF  HASH  PUDDING.— Mince  corned  beef,  1  small  onion 
and  3  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Put  in  baking  dish  with  a  little  water,  and  let 
steam  on  stove  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  cover  with  mashed  potatoes  on  top 
of  which  place  several  pieces  of  butter  and  sprnikle  pepper.  Put  in  oven  and 
brown. — Mrs.  S.  Burhans,  Westfield,  N.  J, 

CHICKEN  CUTLETS.— Meat  of  cold  roast  chicken  cut  fine,  1  cup  of 
drawn  butter  or  cream  gravy,  4  eggs,  %  cup  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt. 
Place  gravy  in  pan,  when  hot  stir  in  meat,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  mix  well  to- 
gether, stirring  constantly  for  3  minutes,  then  pour  out  on  a  broad  dish  to 
cool.  When  cold  and  stiff  cut  into  oblong  pieces  3  inches  by  2  inches,  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Drain  and  serve. — Mrs.  H.  Bauer, 
Newark,  N.  J. 

CHICKEN  PIE.— Cook  chicken  until  it  falls  from  bones.  Put  in  baking 
dish  with  2  tablespoons  butter,  3  cups  of  stock  and  1  cup  milk,  thickened 
with  3  tablespoons  flour.  Place  in  oven  while  preparing  crust.  Crust: — Two 
cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  tablespoons  butter. 
Rub  through  flour.  Beat  1  egg,  add  1  cup  of  milk,  then  the  flour;  stir  to  bat- 
ter, spread  over  chicken  and  bake. — Anna  Dunbar,  Monmouth,  111. 

CHICKEN  PIE. — Cover  chicken  with  cold  water;  simmer  gently  until  2-3 
done,  then  salt  to  taste,  cook  until  falls  from  the  bones.  Remove  the  large 
bones    and    lay  the  chicken  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish;   then  prepare  a 


Apples  are  delicious  baked  without  sugar,  but  with  a  little  salt 

and  butter 

10 


sauce.  Three  tablespoons  butter,  melted;  3  tablespoons  flour,  a  little  pepper; 
mix  well;  to  this  add  5  cups  of  warm  broth  and  1  of  cream  or  milk.  Let  this 
cook  and  poui^  over  chicken  In  baking  dish;  reserve  some  for  gravy  boat. 
Keep  this  warm  while  you  prepare  crust:  Two  cups  of  fiour,  2  scant  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  half  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  shortening,  rubbed 
into  the  flour;  1  egg,  1  cup  milk;  stir  into  a  batter;  lay  over  chicken  antt 
bake. — Mary  Cummins,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

FRIED  CHICKEIV. — Clean  and  joint;  put  in  iron  frying  pan  equal  parts 
of  lard  and  butter;  roll  each  piece  in  flour  and  place  in  pan,  salt  and  pepper; 
cover  closely  and  fry  slowly  until  tender.  A  year-old  chicken  may  be  fried 
in  this  way.  Make  a  gravy  with  browned  flour  and  milk. — Mary  Cummins, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CREAM  CHICKEN. — Pick  cold  boiled  chicken  into  small  pieces;  to  1 
chicken  1  pt.  cream,  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  whites  chopped  flne;  heat  cream  and 
make  sauce  as  follows:  Two  tablespoons  butter  creamed,  with  a  cup  of  flour; 
beat  into  hot  cream;  season  with  parsley,  onion,  red  and  black  pepper,  nut- 
meg and  salt;  serve  on  platter  with  yolks  of  eggs,  rubbed  flne. — Mrs.  Zach 
Smith.  Bedmlnster,  N.  J. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN.— Boil  a  chicken  until  tender;  take  out  bones,  chop 
fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter;  add  to  the  liquor  chicken  was  boil- 
ed in,  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs  made  soft  with  hot  water;  then  the  chopped 
chicken.  When  heated  take  out  and  press  into  a  basin.  Serve  cold.  —  Mrs. 
Bull,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CRUST  FOR  MEAT  PIE.— Two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  1^  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  y2  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Serves  8  people. — 
Miss  Crisler,  Caldwell,  N.  J. 

DELICIOUS  MEXICAN  DISH.r-Soak  and  scald  a  pair  of  sweet  breads;  cut 
into  regular  small  bits.  Take  liquor  from  three  dozen  fine  oysters;  add  to  sweet 
breads,  with  3  tablespoons  of  gravy  from  roast  meat  and  Vi  pound  of  butter, 
chopped  and  rolled  in  flour;  cook  until  sweet  breads  are  tender;  add  oysters; 
cook  5  minutes ;  add  %  of  a  cup  of  cream.  Serve  .with  or  without  toast. — Mary 
O.  McKinney,  Aledo,  111. 

HAMBURG  ROAST. — Chop  very  flne  an  inferior  cut  from  round  steak.  For 
every  pound  use  %  lb.  salt  pork,  chopped  flne;  half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  1  egg, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion  and  parsley. 
Mix  all  well  and  form  into  a  shapely  loaf,  lay  strips  of  salt  pork  over  the  top 
and  roast,  allowing  20  minutes  to  the  pound. — Mrs.  Hildebrant.  Westfield;  N.  J. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH. — Cook  and  season  in  separate  utensils  a  pound  of 
chopped  beef,  6  or  7  onions,  Vz  box  of  macaroni  and  a  can  of  tomatoes.  Serve 
all  mixed  together  on  1  platter. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Collins,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

LEFT  OVER  MEATS  WITH  PEAS.— Cut  meat  in  small  pieces,  cover  with 
water,  add  gravy  left  from  the  original  roast,  good  sized  onion,  Vz  can  peas, 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  ^  hour,  thicken  with  little  flour. — M.  E. 
Williams,  Meadville,  Pa. 

MEAT  SOLTFLE. — Make  1  cup  of  cream  sauce  by  melting  1  tablespoonful 
butter  in  a  saucepan.  Into  this  rub  1  tablespoonful  flour.  When  smooth  add  1 
cup  milk.  Cook  until  thick  and  smooth.  Season  this  with  teaspoonful  chopped 
parsley,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  pepper  and  dash  of  nutmeg.  Stir  into  the 
sauce  one  cup  chopped  chicken  or  other  cold  meat.    Add  the  beaten  yolk  of  2 


If  a  boiled  vegetable  has  too  much  salt  in  it,  pour  boiling  water 

over  it  and  drain 

It 


eggs.  When  cool  add  stiffly  beaten  -wliites.  Put  in  granite  baking  pan;  set  in 
pan  of  water  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  at  once  in  pan  in  which  it  is  baked. 
— Helen  Sill,  Lansing,  Mich. 

IffEAT  SOUFFLE. — One  cap  cold  meat,  chopped;  1  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons 

butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  ^/4  teaspoon  salt,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  grated  onion,  pep- 
per. Mix  ingredients  well,  and  add  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  beaten  stiff. — Miss 
C.  BirdBall,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

JffEAT  PEE. — Let  two  pounds  of  round  steak  simmer  for  2  or  3  hours,  or 
until  quite  tender;  remove  from  liquor,  which  has  been  previously  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper;  chop  (not  too  fine)  put  into  a  deep  pan  which  has  been 
lined  with  pie  crust;  pour  over  this  the  liquor  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  rich 
gravy ;  cover  with  upper  crust  and  bake  ^  hour. — Mrs.  J.  T.  McCrory,  Pittsburg, 

POT  EOAST.— Put  ^  a  cup  of  lard  in  pot  and  have  it  smoking  hot.  Put  in 
roast  and  turn  back  and  forth  in  lard  for  20  minutes;  then  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  done.  If  desired  put  onion  on  roast  when  cooking  in  the 
lard. — M.  M.  McMichaeL  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PBESSED  TOXGUE. — Cover  a  large  beef  tongue  with  cold  water,  and  let  it 
simmer  four  hours,  take  up  and  cool,  boil  liquor  until  reduced  to  a  pint,  place 
tengne  in  bowl  and  chop  fine,  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 
■%  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  allspice,  white  pepper,  and  ^  teaspoon  of  cloves  and 
mace,  mix  well  and  place  in  a  square  tin,  pour  over  the  boiling  water,  to  which 
has  been  added  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  set  away  for  ten  hours.  Slice 
thin  when  served. — ^Mrs.  W.  H.  Higgins,  North  Branch,  N.  J. 

BOAST  BABBIT. — Place  the  rabbit,  when  well  cleaned,  in  a  stone  crock 
and  cover  with  equal  parts  of  water  and  vinegar,  after  having  larded  it;  that 
is,  cut  gashes  in  the  meat  and  insert  slips  of  salt  pork  or  fat  bacon,  add  salt, 
half  a  lemon  and  onion  cut  in  slices,  a  laurel  leaf,  several  whole  cloves  and 
sticks  of  cinnamon,  allow  to  remain  in  this  one  or  two  days;  then  remove  part 
of  the  liquor  and  put  the  rabbit  in  the  roasting  pan  basting  frequently,  adding 
more  of  the  liquid  when  necessary,  roast  over  an  hour.  Put  a  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  heat  to  a  golden  brown,  then  stir  in  gradually 
a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  2  of  sugar,  when  smooth  add  to  the  pan  and  roast  ten 
minutes  longer.  Remove  the  rabbit  to  a  platter  and  send  to  the  table.  Strain 
the  gravy  and  serve. — Mrs.  Hunter,  Byron,  Mich. 

BOAST  IffEAT. — Take  a  pound  each  of  beef  (round  steak),  pork,  mutton 
and  veal,  cut  in  thin  steak,  add  grated  nutmeg,  salt,  and  pepper,  then  roll  all 
together  tightly  and  cord  well.  Place  in  roasting  pan,  add  a  cup  of  butter  or 
part  butter  and  suet,  a  laurel  leaf,  several  clores,  several  slices  of  onion,  a 
celery  stalk  or  parsley  leaf,  also  a  cup  of  hot  water.  Roast  two  and  a  half  or 
three  hours,  baste  frequently;  when  done,  remove  the  roll  to  platter,  remove 
cord  ^nd  send  to  table,  serve  in  thin  slices,  strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  flour 
and  serve.     Use  a  double  roasting  pan. — Mrs.  M.  Hubbard,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

BOAST  BEEF  WITH  TOBESHIBE  PrDDDfG.— Have  your  meat  rest  upon 
a  grating  laid  over  the  dripping  pan,  baste  often.  About  %  of  an  hour  before 
it  is  done  mix  the  pudding  as  follows.  1  pt.  flour,  4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately,  2  cups  flour  (prepared)  1  teaspoon  salt.  Leave  just  enough 
fat  in  the  pan  to  prevent  the  pudding  from  sticking,  continue  to  roast  the  beef 
letting  tbe  dripping  fall  upon  the  pudding  below,  serve  cut  into  squares  and 
lay  around  the  meat  in  the  dish. — Mrs.  E.  Herabury.  Brooklyn. 

SCALLOPED  POEK  CHOPS  AXD  POTATOES.— Take  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
slice  and  nearly  fill  baking  dish.  On  tcp  place  small  pork  chops,  covering 
potatoes,  season  well  and  add  milk  until  it  can  be  seen.  Bake  in'  moderate 
oven  until  pork  is  done. — An  excellent  dish. — Mrs.  E.  B.  Reeve,  Westfleld,  N.  J. 


Plum  pudding  is  a  good  thing  to  have  in  the  house  in  ca«e  of  an 

emergency 


12 


SCRAPPLE. — Thoroughly  clean  one  hog's  head  and  liver.  Cook  till  ten- 
der; then  put  through  meat  chopper;  put  back  in  pot  with  the  liquor  in  which 
It  was  cooked,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sage,  thicken  with  flour.  Slice 
when  cold  and  fry. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Taylor,  Westfleld,  N.  J. 

SAUSAGE. — Twenty  lbs.  of  chopped  meat,  8  ounces  of  salt,  2  ounces  of 
pepper,  1  ounce  of  powdered  sage,  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  %  cup  of  sugar. 
When  cool  pack  in  pans,  and  first  cover  it  thick  with  lard,  then  with  paper. 
Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. — Mrs.  Julia  Carswell,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y, 

SHARP  BROWN  SAUCE.— Put  into  a  sauce  pan  a  tablespoon  melted  but- 
ter. 1  tablespoon  chopped  onions,  let  boil,  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  tablespoon 
water,  3  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  into  which  stir  a 
tablespoon  of  flour,  pour  all  together  and  let  boil  until  it  thickens,  serve  with 
chicken,  boiled  meats  or  fish. — L.  Anderson,  Cranford,  N.  J. 

SAYOR¥  DISH.— Butter  a  pudding  dish,  covering  it  %  inch  thick  with 
potatoes,  mashed  smooth,  with  milk  and  1  egg.  Crimp  the  edges  and  set  the 
plate  in  a  hot  oven  for  five  minutes  to  brown  the  crust.  Fill  the  centre  with 
cold  roast  meat,  chopped  fine  and  simmered  in  thick  gravy.  A  tablespoon  of 
catsup  added  to  the  meat  will  improve  the  flavor. — Minnie  G.  Gowdy,  Mon- 
mouth, 111. 

TEAL  LOAF.— Chop  fine  3  lbs.  leg  or  loin  of  veal  and  %  lb.  of  salt  pork; 
roll  1  dozen  crackers,  put  %  in  the  veal  with  2  eggs;  season  with  pepper  and 
a  little  salt;  mix  all  together  and  make  in  a  solid  form;  then  take  crackers 
that  are  left  and  spread  smoothly  on  the  outside;  bake  1  hour  and  eat  cold. — 
Mrs.  Pauline  Johnson,  Westfleld,  N.  J. 

VEAL  PEPPERS. — Cut  off  stem  end  of  large  green  peppers,  take  out  the 
seeds,  and  fill  with  the  following  mixture:  1  cup  cooked  veal  chopped  fine,  1 
cup  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  strained  tomatoes,  season,  fill  peppers  and  place  them 
in  a  pan  and  bake  with  a  little  water  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  Terwilliger,  Wald- 
wick,  N.  J. 

VEAL  POT  PIE. — Boil  the  veal  until  tender,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter  and  thicken  the  gravy;  first  add  hot  water  if  necessary  that  there  may 
be  enough.  Make  a  biscuit  dough,  roll  thick  and  cover,  make  an  opening  for 
the  steam  to  escape.  Boil  fast  for  %  hour  after  putting  on  the  crust.  Keep 
the  kettle  tightly  covered. — E.  Q.  Williams,  Meadville,  Pa. 


CROQUETTES 


BEEF  CROQUETTES.— Two  cups  of  finely  chopped  cooked  meat,  1  cup  of 
milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  1  onion,  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  sweet  marjoram,  seasoning  to  taste.  Scald  the  milk;  rub  the  butter  and 
flour  together  until  smooth;  add  to  the  scalded  milk  and  stir  until  it  thickens; 
mix  the  herb, onion  and  other  seasoning  with  the  meat;  add  to  the  thickened 
milk  and  mix;  cool;  form  into  cone  shaped  croquettes;  cover  with  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  H.  Tinning,  Ada.  Okla. 

BEEF  CROQUETTES.— A  cup  of  chopped  cold  beef,  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs, 
an  egg  well  beaten,  a  pinch  of  salt,  pepper  to  taste;  moisten  the  bread  crumbs 
with  gravy  or  stock,  mix  all  thoroughly;  form  into  cakes,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. — Mrs.  E.  Stevenson,  Argyle.  N.  Y. 

MEAT  BALLS  OR  CROQUETTES.— Cold  mashed  or  boiled  potatoes  with 
cold  meat,  1  egg,  1  finely  minced  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  rolled  in  flour  and 
fried  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  R.  Hale,  Argyle.  N.  Y. 


Cheese  added  to  the  French  dressing  for  plain  salad  will  make  it 

more  interesting 


13 


CHICKEN  CROQUETTES^-One  solid  pint  of  finely  chopped  chicken,  1 
tablespoon  salt,  1  of  flour,  3  of  butter.  1  of  lemon  juice.  %  teaspoon  pepper, 
1  of  onion  juice,  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  2  eggs,  1  pint  cracker  crumbs.  Heat 
milk,  add  flour  and  butter,  chicken  and  seasoning;  boil  2  minutes,  then  add 
eggs  well  beaten,  set  to  cool.  "When  cool  shape  and  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  very  hot  fat  until  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  Julia  Smith, 
Newark,  N.  J. 

CROQUETTES.— Two  cups  of  finely  chopped  cooked. meat,  1  cup  of  milk,  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  2  of  chopped  parsley,  2  of  flour,  seasonings  to  taste.  Scald 
the  milk,  rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  until  smooth;  add  to  the  scalded 
milk  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Mix  the  parsley  and  other  seasonings  with  the 
meat;  add  to  the  thickened  milk  and  mix  thoroughly;  cool,  form  into  cone- 
shaped  croquettes,  cover  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs;  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. — 
Mrs,  Walter  Smith,  Roseville,  N.  J. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES.— One  pint  of  cold  veal  chopped  fine,  1  cup  each  of 
rice  and  mashed  potatoes,  season,  roll  in  eggs  and  crumbs,  fry  to  a  light  brown. 
— Mrs.  J.  P.  Staats,  Bound  Brook,  N.  J. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES.— Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  2  tablespoons  cream, 
1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  grated  nutmeg,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  butter 
the  size  of  walnut,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. — Miss  V.  Ralston,  Philadel- 
phia, Pa. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES.— Boil  potatoes  in  the  skins.  When  done 
and  while  hot  peel  and  mash  fine;  season  with  salt  and  butter;  form  into  pyra- 
mids or  cylinders,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot 
butter. — Mrs.  M.  Clokey,  Porter,  111. 


VEGETABLES 


When  cooking  vegetables: 

1.  Be  sure  they  are  fresh  as  possible.  It  is  better  to  cook  them  on  the 
same  day  as  gathered. 

2.  Wash  and  remove  decayed  parts. 

8.    Leave  in  cold  water  a  short  time  before  cooking. 

4.  Have  water  boiling  when  starting  to  cook  and  be  sure  to  keep  it  boiling 
until  done. 

Time  required  for  cooking: 

Asparagus — 20  minutes  in  as  little  water  as  possible. 

Beets— From  1  to  2  hours,  then  slip  into  cold  water  and  remove  skin. 

Cabbage — 1  to  2  hours  in  salted  water  or  water  in  which  ham  has  been 
boiled. 

Green  corn — 10  to  15  minutes.  Do  not  salt.  A  teaspoon  of  sugar  will 
bring  out  the  flavor. 

Green  peas — 20  minutes  in  as  little  water  as  possible.  Salt  may  be  added 
to  taste. 

Onions — 1  hour. 

Parsnips — 20  to  30  minutes. 

Spinach — 20  minutes. 

Shell  beans — 1  hour. 

String  beans — 1^  hours. 

Turnips — from  40  minutes  to  an  hour. 

Winter  Squash — Cut  in  pieces  and  boil  from  20  to  40  minutes  in  little 
water.    When  done,  press  water  out,  and  serve  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 


Mutton  fat  should  be  avoided  when  making  soup  stock,  as  it  gives 

a  rank  flavor 


14 


BAKED  BEANS  FROM  BOSTON— Soak  three  cups  of  beans  over  night.  Then 
add  small  teaspoon  of  soda  and  boil.  When  skins  begin  to  crack  turn  the  water 
off  and  add  3  teaspoons  each  of  sugar,  butter  and  salt.  Cover  beans  with  boiling 
water  till  about  1  inch  above.  Bake  until  water  is  level  with  beans.— Mrs.  T.  C. 
McKelvey,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN— One  can  of  com  or  cut  and  scrape  6  ears  of  young  corn. 
Roll  cracker  crumbs,  not  so  fine  as  for  croquettes;  put  a  layer  of  com  in  a  baking 
dish;  then  a  layer  of  crushed  crackers;  then  a  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper; 
then  a  layer  of  com,  etc.,  leaving  crackers  on  top.  Pour  on  milk  to  moisten  well 
and  put  it  in  the  oven.  Bake  45  minutes  and  have  the  top  well  browned— Mrs  T. 
H.  McMichael,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE.— Chop  fine  as  much  cabbage  as  will  be  needed  and 
boil  in  salted  water  until  tender.  To  1  qt.  of  boiled  cabbage  add  cream  with  but- 
ter as  large  as  a  walnut,  salt  and  pepper.  Flour  with  condensed  milk  partly  dil- 
uted is  a  very  good  substitute  for  cream  in  an  emergency.— Mrs.  Louis  Reed, 
Jersey  City,  N.  J. 

CREAM  PEAS  IN  SHELLS. — One  can  French  peas  drained  and  washed,  place 
in  pan  and  heat.  Sauce:  1  tablespoon  butter.  1  tablespoon  flour,  1^  cups  milk  and 
cream  (  half  and  half ) ,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cook  until  thick,  pour  over  peas 
and  serve  in  shells  of  rich  pastry.  —  M.  E.  P. 

CREAMED  POTATOES.— One  quart  rich  milk,  when  this  comes  to  a  boil  put 
in  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg  anid  about  3  cups  of  potatoes  cut  in  dice.  Stir  in 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  milk  enough  to  thicken,  season  to  taste. — Mrs.  Fred 
Anthony,  Lamington,  N.  J. 

CREAMED  POTATOES  NO.  2.— Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  slice  or  cut  into 
small  blocks.  Heat  milk  in  stewpan,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  stirred  into  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  cold  milk.  When  as  thick  as  cream  put  in  the  potatoes  with  butter,  a  lit- 
tle salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  Stir  gently  and  only  let  them  heat  thoroughly,  as  they 
burn  easily.  If  one  hasgood  cream  no  flour  is  needed. — Carrie  M.  Monty,  Montrose, 
Pa. 

CREAMED  TURNIPS. — Slice  into  small  squares,  cook  thoroly  in  salt  water, 
when  done  drain  off  the  water  and  add  a  cup  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter  mixed 
with  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  pepper,  let  boil  and  serve  hot.— Miss  Crisler,  Caldwell, 
N.  J. 

CAULIFLOWER.— Soak  cauliflower  two  hours  in  salted  water,  head  down- 
ward. Then  put  in  boiling  water,  boil  until  done,  drain.  Take  one  cup  fine 
bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  pour  over  cauliflower  just 
before  serving  it.— Mrs.  Reynolds,  Boston.  Mass. 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS.— Boil  till  tender,  chop  and  place  in  baking  dish  with 
alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs;  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  nearly 
cover  with  milk;  bake  half  an  hour.— Mrs.  C.  C.  French,  E.  Greenw'ich,  Conn. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES. -Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  bake  dish  with 
sliced,  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  sugar,  and  cover  with 
another  layer  crumbs  and  dot  with  pieces  of  butter.  Add  another  layer  of  toma- 
toes and  another  of  crumbs;  cover  pan  and  bake  20  minutes.— Mrs.  C.  C.  French, 
E.  Greenwich,  Conn. 

EGGPLANT. — Cut  in  two,  one  good  sized  eggplant.  Scrape  out  all  the  inside 
and  boil  it  in  water  until  soft,  drain  off  the  water,  mash  and  mix  with  one- 
half    minced    onion,     J    cup    grated     bread    crumbs,     two    tablespoons    but- 


Cheese  can  be  combined  with  many  more  vegetables  than 
is  generally  supposed 

» I  -I  --     1 1 ,  iji 

15 


ter  and  two  of  cream.     Stuff  into  the  hull,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  Grandl,  Plainfield,  N.  J. 

EGG  PLANT  OYSTERS.— Boil  the  egg  plant  until  you  can  pierce  it  with 
a  fork;  then  drain,  peel  and  chop  or  grind  very  fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
very  little  butter.  For  a  large  plant  use  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  cupful  of 
dried  fine  bread  crumbs,  to  make  batter  quite  thick.  Form  into  oblong  shape, 
flatten  out  like  an  oyster,  dip  into  beaten  egg  then  into  bread  crumbs  or 
cracker  dust.     Fry  in  deep  hot  fat. — Mrs.  C.  Jackson,  Alma,  Mich. 

FKENCH  FRIED  POTATOES.— Pare  and  wash  the  potatoes  and  cut  into 
the  desired  shape.  Drain  well.  Fry  in  smoking  hot  fat  until  well  browned 
and  drain  on  brown  paper.    Season  with  salt  and  serve. — Mrs.  A.  B. 

IRISH  POTATO  RELISH.— One-half  cup  of  grated  raw  potatoes;  IV^  pt. 
sweet  milk.  Boil  milk  and  add  potato;  boil  until  done.  When  cool  add  2 
eggs,  beat.  Sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Bake  without  upper  crust. — Mrs.  A. 
Butler,  Waldwick.  N.  J. 

KENTUCKY  POTATOES.— Peel  and  slice  the  potatoes  thin,  place  on  a 
baking  dish  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  season  the  layer  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.  Repeat  until  you  have  the  desired  amount.  Put  in  enough  milk  to 
cover  the  potatoes.    Bake  in  oven  one  hour. — Table  Talk. 

LTONNAISE  POTATOES.— Take  8  or  10  good-sized  cold  boiled  potatoes; 
slice  them  endwise,  then  crosswise,  making  them  like  dice  in  small  squares. 
When  you  are  ready  to  cook  them  heat  some  butter  or  good  drippings  in  a 
frying  pan,  frying  in  1  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  until  it  begins  to  change 
color  and  look  yellow.  Now,  put  in  your  potatoes;  sprinkle  well  with  salt  and 
pepper;  stir  well  and  cook  about  5  minutes,  taking  care  that  you  do  not 
break  them.  They  must  not  brown.  Just  before  taking  up  stir  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley.  Drain  dry  by  shaking  in  a  heated  colander. 
Serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  C.  W.  Crowe,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

MACARONI. — About  a  qt.  of  water,  salted,  let  boil,  then  add  from  12  to 
15  sticks  of  macaroni.  Cook  till  soft,  put  in  colander,  rinse  with  cold  water. 
Put  in  a  dish,  add  cheese  or  tomatoes  or  both,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  cover  with  milk.    Bake  till  brown. — M.  E.  Walworth,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE  (Italian  Style.)  —  About  %  lb.  top 
round,  large  piece  suet,  2  large  onions,  small  bunch  parsley,  few  mushrooms 
(if  desired),  1  qt.  tomatoes,  i/4  lb.  butter,  macaroni,  piece  cheese  (parmason 
or  Swiss).  Put  suet  in  iron  pot;  and  when  thoroughly  tried  out,  remove 
pieces  of  fat.  Cut  the  onions  small  and  brown  them  in  the  fat.  Roll  the 
parsley  inside  the  meat,  and  tie  the  roll  with  white  cord.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  other  meat  spice.  Before  placing  the  meat  in  the  pot,  put  %  lb. 
butter  in,  and  then  add  the  meat.  Let  the  meat  brown  all  around,  and  then 
add  1  qt.  of  tomatoes,  stewed.  Let  this  simmer  for  2  hours,  stirring  now  and 
then,  to  keep  from  sticking.  Cook  the  macaroni  in  salted  water  for  about  Vz 
hour,  or  until  tender.  Place  a  small  portion  of  macaroni  on  a  plate,  put  a 
little  of  the  grated  cheese,  and  a  couple  of  teaspoons  of  gravy;  taste  this  to 
see  if  it  is  seasoned  properly.  Place  macaroni  on  platter,  pour  some  of  the 
gravy  over  it,  and  sprinkkle  generously  with  the  grated  cheese.  Mushrooms 
may  be  cooked  with  the  meat  and  tomatoes  if  desired. 

If  all  the  sauce  is  not  used,  the  remainder  will  keep  for  several  days  in  a 
cool  place. — Mrs.  Marenghi,  Westfield,  N.  J. 


A  cracked  egg  can  be  boiled  if  salt  is  rubbed  into  the  crack  before 

boiling  the  egg 
- 


MASHED  TURNIPS. — To  6  medium  sized  turnips,  well  cooked,  add  2 
cooked  potatoes;  while  hot,  mash,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  little 
cream  and  butter,  and  beat  thoroughly. — Mrs.  Simpson,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

POTATO  BALLS. — Take  cold  mashed  potatoes  and  mix  thoroughly  with 
them  1  well  beaten  egg.  Form  in  flat,  round  cakes;  roll  in  flour  and  fry 
brown  in  hot  butter. — Anna  Denfield.  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

POTATO  CHIPS. — Slice  peeled  raw  potatoes  very  thin  on  slaw  cutter, 
soak  in  salt  water  five  minutes,  dry  and  drop  a  few  at  a  time  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  lard.  Stir  until  chips  are  a  light  brown  and  then  remove  with  a 
skimmer  to  a  piece  of  brown  paper  until  cool.  (These  may  also  be  served 
hot  and  sprinkled  with  a  little  salt.) — B.  Butler,  Westfield,  N.  J, 

POTATO  PUFFS.— One  cup  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  flour  to  mix  soft;  roll  and  cut  in  strips  about  the 
size  of  finger.  Roll  lightly  with  the  hand  and  fry  as  you  would  doughnuts. 
Serve  hot,  with  butter  or  syrup. — Mrs.  C.  C.  McCoy,  Monmouth,  111. 

POTATOES  IN  KENTUCKY  STYLE.— Slice  thin  as  for  frying;  let  remain 
in  cold  water  Vz  hour;  put  into  pudding  dish  or  dripping  pan  with  salt, 
pepper  and  some  milk  V2  a  pt.  to  an  ordinary  dish;  bake  for  an  hour;  take 
out  and  add  a  lump  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg.  Cut  into  small  bits  ana 
scatter  over  the  top. — Mrs,  C.  S.  Cleland,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

PEAS  PORRIDGE.- Mutton,  1  lb.  (end  of  leg  is  best,  or  shoulder).  Cut 
off  as  much  fat  as  possible  and  cover  with  1  qt.  of  cold  water.  Let  it  simmer 
2  hours.  One-half  hour  before  it  is  done  add  i/4  peck  green  peas  and  some 
potatoes.  When  they  are  done  take  out  the  potatoes  and  meat,  and  add  1  pt. 
of  milk;  bring  to  a  boil  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  wet  with  cold 
water.  When  you  put  on  your  meat  add  an  onion,  sliced,  and  a  bunch  of  pot 
herbs,  and  season  to  taste  when  you  add  the  potatoes.  You  may  add  more 
water  or  milk,  as  desired. — Mrs.  Hugh  Stevenson,  Ada,  Okla. 

RICE  AND  PEAS. — For  1  lb.  of  rice  take  1  can  of  peas  or  %  peck  green 
peas.  Boil  rice  until  tender;  drain  water  from  canned  peas;  add  to  the  rice 
with  seasoning.  Stir  the  rice  and  peas  gently,  mixing  them  thoroughly,  but 
do  not  crush  them.  Butter  a  mold  or  bowl;  put  the  mixture  in,  pressing  firm- 
ly; turn  out  on  plate,  serving  very  hot. — ^Maud  Bonyun. 

SCALLOPED  CORN.— Cut  from  the  cob  what  would  make  about  1  pt.; 
sprinkle  over  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  well  together;  then  add  about 
1  pt.  of  bread  crumbs  and  put  in  a  layer  of  each  until  your  dish  is  full,  adding 
bits  of  butter;  pour  -over  this  milk  until  you  can  see  it  near  the  top.  Bake 
about  IVz  hours. — Mrs,  M.  McEachron,  Argyle,  N.  Y. 

SPINACH. — Spinach  should  be  put  in  boiling  water  and  do  not  cover, 
as  it  will  keep  its  fresh  green  color  better.  Boil  about  twenty  minutes. 
Then  drain  and  chop  fine.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  flour  into  a 
sauce  pan,  brown  the  least  bit.  Then  stir  in  spinach,  add  pepper,  salt  and 
cream.  Let  it  boil  slowly  for  five  minutes,  turn  into  dish.  Serve  with  sliced 
hard  boiled  egg. — Mrs.  C.  S.  Cleland,  Philadelphia,  Pa, 

SUCCOTASH. — Two  cups  of  canned  corn,  2  cups  of  boiled  or  baked  beans, 
left  over  from  dinner.  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  stew  fine  minutes. — M.  Coddington,  Plainfield,  N,  J. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES.— Pare  sweet  potatoes,  as  many  as  are 
needed,  and  cook  in  salt  water;  when  done  mash;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
and  small  lump  of  butter.  Form  into  croquettes.  When  cold  dip  in  egg  and 
bread  crumbs;  fry  in  hot  lard,  and  serve  with  parsley. — Mrs.  A.  B. 


Fluting  irons  are  a  good  investment  for  the  woman  who  likes 
daintily  finished  garments 

17 


SWEET  POTATO  PONE.— Stir  together  until  very  light  and  white  %  lb. 
butter  and  %  lb.  powdered  sugar;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  ginger;  grate  1^?^  lbs. 
sweet  potato.  Beat  4  eggs  light,  stir  into  the  butter  and  sugar,  in  turn  with 
the  sweet  potato.  Dissolve  a  teaspoonful  soda  in  spoonful  of  milk,  and  stir 
in,  beating  the  whole  hard.  Butter  inside  of  a  tin  pan.  Put  in  the  mixture 
and  bake  4  hours  or  more.    To  be  eaten  fresh. — Mrs.  S.  Duncan,  N.  Y.  C. 


SALADS 


BANANA  SALAD. — Half  of  a  banana,  sliced  lengthwise  is  served  on  3 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  then  covered  with  a  spoonful  of  dressing,  scattering  a 
teaspoon  of  ground  peanuts. — Miss  Crisler  .Caldwell,  N.  J. 

CABBAGE  SALAD  O  TOMATO  CUPS,— Select  tomatoes  of  fair  and  uni- 
form size;  cover  for  a  moment  with  scalding  water;  remove  the  skins,  and 
stand  aside  in  the  refrigerator  to  chill.  Any  preferred  way  of  preparing  cab 
bage  may  be  used,  although  the  following  is  excellent:  To  a  head  of  cabbage 
of  medium  size,  sliced  very  fine,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  with  a  wooden 
potato  masher  pound  until  watery.  Let  stand  about  15  minutes;  then  squeeze 
out  the  water.  To  make  the  dressing,  beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  V4,  of  a  cup 
of  sugar  until  light;  add  a  cup  of  pure  cider  vinegar  and  cook  over  hot  water 
until  the  mixture  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Take  from  the  fire;  add  a 
teaspoon  of  butter,  i/^  teaspoon  of  celery  salt  and  V4,  of  a  teaspoon  of  pepper, 
and  pour  hot  over  the  cabbage.  Stand  aside  to  become  cold.  At  serving  time, 
beginning  at  the  stem  end  divide  the  tomatoes  into  sections  almost  to  the 
base  and  fill  with  cabbage.  Arrange  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  serve. — Mrs. 
Wm.  Acken,  Liberty  Corner,  N.  J. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. — Stir  14  cup  of  vinegar  into  two  well  beaten  eggs  and 
cook  until  it  thickens.  When  cool  add  2  tablespoons  of  sweet  cream,  with 
salt  pepper,  mustard  and  sugar  to  taste.  Pour  this  over  %  a  cabbage,  shaved 
or  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  M.  Reed,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 

CELERY  SALAD. — Two  bunches  of  celery,  1  tablespoon  olive  oil,  4  table- 
spoons vinegar,  1  small  teaspoon  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Wash  and 
scrape  the  celery,  lay  it  in  ice  cold  water  until  dinner  time,  when  chop  rather 
coarse.  Season,  tossing  all  well  up  together  and  serve. — Mrs.  W.  McMichael, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CHICKEIV  SALAD. — Cut  into  small  pieces  the  white  meat  of  2  cooked 
chickens.  Chop  finely  the  tender  part  of  2  stalks  of  celery.  Mix  celery  and 
chicken  together.  Take  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  crumble  to  a  powder  with 
a  silver  fork.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  yellow  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  a 
scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  V2  teaspoon  sugar.  To  these  dry  ingredients  add  al- 
ternately a  small  quantity  of  olive  oil  and  vinegar,  stirring  constantly  until 
the  whole  becomes  the  substance  of  thick  cream.  Pour  this  dressing  over 
chicken  and  celery,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Line  salted  dish  with  tender  leaves 
of  salad  and  pour  chicken  into  it. — Mrs.  N.  Miller,  Philadelphia. 

FRUIT  SALAD,  NO.  1.— One  can  sliced  pineapple,  3  sliced  oranges,  3 
sliced  bananas,  l^  box  Plymouth  Rock  gelatine,  1  cup  cold  water  poured  over 
gelatine;  when  dissolved  add  2%  cups  of  boiling  water,  2  cups  sugar,  juice 
of  1  lemon  if  you  use  other  than  Plymouth  Rock  gelatine.  Just  before  it  jellies 
pour  over  the  fruit.    Set  in  a  cold  place. — Mrs.  W.  Williamson,  Keokuk,  111. 

CELERY  DRESSING.— Two  bunches  of  celery,  1  tablespoon  olive  oil,  4 
tablespoons  vinegar,  1  small  teaspoon  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Wash 
and  scrape  the  celery,  lay  it  in  ice  cold  water  until  dinner  time,  when  chop 
rather  coarse.  Season,  tossing  all  well  together  and  serve. — Mrs,  W.  Mc- 
Michael, Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


Lettering  can  be  removed  from  leather  bags  by  soaking  the  bag 
in  kerosene  over  night 

18 


ITALIAIV  SALAD. — Fresh  tomatoes,  sliced;  celery,  green  peppers  and  a 
little  onion  chopped.  Served  with  French  dressing. — Pearle  Welch,  Westfield, 
N.  J. 

MEAT  SALAD. — Two  cups  meat  chopped  very  fine;  1  cup  chopped  toma- 
toes; 'hi  cup  chopped  celery;  2  tablespoons  chopped  onion.  Mix  with  any  good 
salad  dressing. — S.  M.  T.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

NUT  SALAD. — One  and  one-half  pounds  almonds,  blanched;  l^/^  pounds 
English  wdlnuts  and  2  bunches  celery,  chopped.  Dressing:  One-half  cup  sugar, 
%  cup  vinegar,  %  teaspoon  salt.  Set  on  stove  to  boil.  "When  cool  stir  in  an 
egg,  a  cup  of  cream,  whipped.  Stir  all  together  and  pour  over  nuts  or  use  plain 
salad  dressing.  Chopped  apples  may  be  added  if  desired. — Mrs.  Susie  Anderson, 
Cranford,  N.  J. 

ORANGE  SALAD. — Twelve  oranges,  4  lemons,  1  cup  sugar,  1  box  Plymouth 
Rock  gelatine  dissolved  in  1  cup  cold  water;  cut  oranges  in  half,  shred  fine 
with  a  silver  fork,  taking  out  all  seeds,  add  juice  of  4  lemons  and  sugar;  then 
add  a  cup  of  hot  water  to  the  dissolved  gelatine.  Stir  all  the  mixtures  together 
and  set  on  ice  until  stiff.  Half  of  this  recipe  is  enough  for  12  or  15  persons. — 
Nell  Wolff,  Aledo,  111. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  CELERY  SALAD A  delicious  salad  is  made  of  diced 

pineapple  and  celery  mingled  in  equal  parts.  Make  Mayonnaise  dressing  to 
which  whipped  ci'eam  has  been  added.  Sprinkle  over  salad  with  salted  almonds 
or  pecans. — E.  Q.  Williams,  Meadville,  Pa. 

POTATO  SALAD. — ^Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes;  cut  1  bunch  of  parsley  fine; 
beat  2  eggs  together;  1  teaspoon  of  sugar;  ^/^  teaspoon  flour;  %  teaspoon  yellow 
mustard;  butter  size  of  egg;  %  cup  cider  vinegar;  3  tablespoons  of  water; 
Vi,  cup  of  milk,  sour  if  handy.  Mix  all  together  and  let  come  to  boil.  Pour  over 
potatoes  and  parsley.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Miss  McFassel,  Philadelphia, 
Pa. 

POTATO  SALAD. — Eight  good  sized  potatoes,  2  onions,  a  bunch  of  celery 
(use  celery  seed  if  you  cannot  secure  celery)  4  hard  boiled  eggs;  chop  all  up 
and  mix  together.  Dressing  for  salad:  Two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
of  flour,  i  small  tablespoon  of  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  egg,  (well 
beaten)  1  cup  of  vinegar,  i/^  cup  of  water;  stir  all  together  smoothly  and  put  on 
the  stove  in  a  stew  pan  and  cook  until  thick;  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  when 
cold  pour  over  potatoes,  etc.  Then  whip  up  i/^  cup  of  thick  cream  and  pour 
over  the  top  and  garnish  with  4  hard  boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  W.  McMichael,  Brook- 
lyn, N.  Y. 

TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD.— Stew  Vz  can  of  tomatoes  till  well  done.  Season 
to  taste  and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Return  juice  to  the  fire  and  stir  into 
it  quickly  ^^  tea  cup  of  gelatine  which  has  been  well  soaked  for  i/^  hour  in  a 
cup  of  cold  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  Ftrain  into  cups  or  small  glasses  to 
mould.  When  it  begins  to  congeal  place  2  or  3  halves  of  English  walnuts  on 
top  of  each  cup  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  till  it  hardens  well.  Turn  out  on 
lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  M.  Porter,  Brooklyn, 
N.  Y. 

VEAL  SALAD. — To  a  pint  of  cold  roast  veal  which  has  been  shaved  into 
pieces  an  inch  long  and  about  V2  an  inch  wide  add  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped; 
3  or  4  crisp  stalks  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  2  small  heads  of  lettuce,  finely 
cut.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  a  dressing;  toss  up,  and  serve  at  once. 
Lamb  may  be  used  in  place  of  veal,  if  preferred. — May  M.  L.  Howe,  Oliveria, 
N.  Y. 


Oysters  broiled  on  the  half -shell  should  be  sprinkled  with  chopped 
parsley  and  red  pepper 


WALDORF  SALAD. — One  cup  apples,  cut  in  cubes;  1  cup  celery,  %  cup 
English  walnuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  with,  salad  dressing.  Garnish  with  halves 
of  the  walnuts. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Dunster,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


SALAD  DRESSING 


BELMONT  CHICKEN  SALAD  DRESSING.— Seven  eggs,  1  pt.  bottle  olive 
oil,  %  teaspoonful  mustard.  Crush  the  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs.  Take  the 
yolks  of  3  raw  eggs;  cream  them  together;  add  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  the  olive  oil  gradually,  whipping  until  it  is 
thoroughly  mixed;  then  add  3  teaspoons  of  vinegar;  whip  until  it  becomes 
rigid.— Mrs,  B.  Butler,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING.— Two  eggs,  2  teaspoons  salt,  2  teaspoons 
mustard,  1  teaspoon  pepper,  butter  size  of  lemon,  1  cup  vinegar,  6  tablespoons 
cream,  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time.  Equal 
parts  of  salmon  and  cabbage,  chopped  fine.  Pour  over  these  the  cream  dress- 
ing.— Mrs.  T.  McKelvey,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 

COLD  SLATY  DRESSING.— One  and  one-half  cups  of  vinegar,  two  eggs, 
1  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  dash  of  black  pepper,  1  pinch  of  mustard  and  salt, 
lump  of  butter  size  of  egg,  1%  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Beat  eggs  and  butter 
together;  then  add  vinegar  and  other  ingredients.  Set  on  fire;  stir  constantly 
till  it  reaches  the  boiling  point.  Then  remove  from  fire. — Martha  Martin,  Aledo, 
111. 

DRESSING  FOR  POTATO  SALAD.— One  teaspoon  mustard,  1  egg,  well 
beaten;  a  little  sugar,  this  mixed  with  vinegar.  Set  this  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  stirring  it  until  it  thickens.  When  cold  thin  it  with  cream  or  milk. — 
Mrs.  Irvin,  Aledo,  111. 

FRENCH  DRESSING  WITH  ROQUEFORT  CHEESE.— Take  2  ice-cold  eggs 
and  separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites.  Into  the  yolks  stir  a  third  of  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper,  and,  drop  by  drop,  olive  oil,  stirring  con- 
tinuously. You  have  nov/  a  thick  mass;  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar,  and  stir;  then  oil  again  and  stir,  then  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  till  you 
have  the  quantity  and  consistency  you  wish.  If  it  is  to  your  taste,  add  onion- 
juice  or  half  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  or  a  drop  or  two  of  mint.  Set  on  the  ice 
and  just  before  serving  add  a  tablespoon  of  whipped  or  plain  thick  cream. 
Beat  in  with  the  cream  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg.  To  make  the  yolk  smooth 
rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  then  stir  into  the  dressing.  This  dressing  is  dropped 
with  a  small  spoon  on  tomatoes,  lettuce,  asparagus,  chicken,  and  last,  Roque- 
fort cheese  grated  on  top. — Mrs.  Lewis,  Fairfield  Circle,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

LEMON  SALAD  DRESSING.— Yolks  of  6  eggs,  beaten  light,  nine  table- 
spoons lemon  juice,  strained;  l^^  teaspoons  sugar,  1%  teaspoons  of  salt,  little 
pepper,  butter  size  of  egg.  I-Ieat  lemon  juice  in  saucepan.  Melt  the  butter  and 
stir  that  with  the  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  into  the  yolks.  Stir  all  into  the  hot 
lemon  juice  and  boil  until  the  consistency  of  thick  custard,  stirring  constantly. 
This  will  keep  in  a  fruit  jar,  in  ice  box,  for  several  days.  When  needed  for 
table,  mix  1  part  of  the  dressing  with  2  of  whipped  cream.  This  dressing  is  nice 
for  green,  potato  or  fruit  salad. — L.  C.  Barkley,  Argyle,  N.  Y. 

MAYONNAISE  FOR  SALADS Yolks  of  five  eggs.  1/2  cup  sugar,  %   cup 

strong  vinegar,  1  dessertspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  ^2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup 
of  milk.  Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  then  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs; 
add  the  salt;  mix  the  mustard  smooth  with  a  little  vinegar,  but  do  not  add  until 
after  the  milk.  Put  the  milk  on  to  heat.  The  moment  it  boils  pour  it  over  the 
mixture,  stirring  rapidly.  Then  add  the  mustard ;  then  the  vinegar,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Put  this  on  the  stove  again  and  heat  until  just  about  to  boil,  stirring 
constantly.  Take  off,  and  set  aside  to  cool. — Mrs.  M.  H.  Robinson,  Allegheny, 
Pa. 


To  keep  a  gas  stove  from  rusting,  go  over  it  once  a  week  with  a 
soft  cloth  dipped  in  linseed  oil 


20 


EUSSIAN  SALAD  DRESSING^-For  foundation  use  Simple  Salad  Dressing 
recipe.  When  cold  add  to  %  cupful  of  the  dressing  enough  smooth  chili  sauce 
to  give  a  deep  rose  color.  Stir  until  smooth.  Add  four  or  five  olives  cut  into 
bits  and  %  a  red  pepper  cut  into  thin  shreds.  Pour  over  crisp  lettuce  hearts, 
cut  in  halves. — ^Mrs.  Chas.  Pohlman,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

SALAD  DRESSING.— Three  eggs,  beaten  very  light;  1  heaping  tablespoon 
flour;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  spoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  Yz  cup  of 
water;  Vz  cup  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  cream;  3  tablespoons  olive  oil.  Mix  sugar, 
salt,  mustard  and  flour  together  and  beat  eggs  very  light.  Take  part  of  Yz  cup 
of  water  and  add  to  eggs;  then  add  sugar,  salt,  mustard  and  flour  to  the  eggs; 
add  rest  of  water  and  vinegar.  Put  on  fire  to  cook.  When  cool,  add  cream 
and  olive  oil. — A.  R,  Kilpatrick,  Philadelphia,  Pa, 

SALAD  DRESSING. — One  egg  well  beaten,  2^^  teaspoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
mustard,  1  teaspoon  butter,  1  scant  cup  vinegar,  2  spoons  flour.  Cook  until 
thick. — H.  Robertson,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SALAD  DRESSING. — Three-quarters  pt.  vinegar,  %  cup  sugar;  ^  cup  but- 
ter; salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  in  to  boil  in  doulale  kettle.  Beat  yolks  of  6 
eggs  and  add  to  this  %  cup  of  milk  and  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  mustard.  Stir 
all  into  boiling  vinegar  until  of  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Remove  from 
fire  and  beat  until  cold.    This  will  keep  for  weeks. — N.  R.  Wolff,  Aledo,  111. 

SALAD  DRESSING.— Half  pint  vinegar,  heated;  Vz  tablespoon  flour;  2 
tablespoons  sugar;  1  teaspoon  mustard;  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  2  eggs  and  stir 
all  together.  Turn  this  into  vinegar  after  taking  off  stove,  as  if  too  hot  will 
curdle.  If  it  does  not  thicken  can  cook  a  little  on  back  of  stove,  and,  last,  add 
2  tablespoons  butter  (instead  of  oil).  If  too  thick  when  cold  thin  with  cream. — 
Mrs.  C.  Monty,  Montrose,  Pa. 

SALAD  CREAM  DRESSING.— One  cup  butter;  1^^  cups  sugar;  creamed, 
add  1%  tablespoons  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  mustard,  1  pinch  cayenne  pepper;  then 
add  4  eggs,  1  at  a  time  beating  them  thoroughly;  l  pt.  cream,  and  lastly  l^/^ 
pt.  boiling  vinegar;  to  stand  over  fire  until  it  approaches  boiling  point.  Keep 
in  cool  place.  You  can  save  out  the  cream  and  add  as  you  use  it.  The  dressing 
without  cream  will  keep  for  a  long  time. — Mrs.  H.  Reynolds,  Belcher,  N.  Y, 

SIMPLE  SALAD  DRESSING.— Mix  well  together  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  mustard.  14  teaspoon  of  cornstarch.  Add  1 
beaten  egg  to  above  mixture.  Three  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  Vz  cup  of  milk  or 
cream.  Boil  until  it  thickens  to  the  consistency  of  thin  custard. — Miss  Bowman, 
Westfield,  N.  J. 

SALAD  OR  TOMATO  DRESSING Two  eggs,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  dessert- 
spoon sugar,  1  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  butter;  pepper  and  salt.  Put  on  fire, 
stir  well  until  it  sets;  when  cool  add  1  tablespoon  of  cream. — Miss  Ralston, 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

TOMATO  DRESSING.— One  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  2  tablespoons  of 
vinegar,  small  piece  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  flour,  1  table- 
spoon sugar,  2  of  cream,  small  bunch  of  parsley  chopped  fine.  Cook  slowly 
until  thick.  When  cool  pour  over  sliced  tomatoes. — Mrs.  A.  F.  Miller,  Bridge- 
ton,  N.  J. 

EGGS  AND  OMELETTES 

BAKED  OMELET.^Into  1  pint  boiling  milk  put  1  teaspoon  butter  and 
1  teaspoon  salt.    Stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  fiour  which  has  been  rubbed  smooth  in 


Carrots  should  be  scraped  or  peeled  very  thinly,  as  the  best  of  the 
carrot  is  next  to  the  skin 

21 


a  little  cold  milk.  Pour  this  while  hot  upon  7  or  8  well  beaten  eggs.  Then 
pour  all  into  a  hot  buttered  quart  dish  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 
Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  B.  F.  Ballard,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

BAKED  OMELET. — Six  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour,  a  little  salt,  a  cup  of 
milk.  Take  a  little  of  the  milk  and  stir  the  flour  into  it,  add  the  rest  of  the 
milk  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  pour  into  the  flour,  milk  and  yolks.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
small  egg  into  an  iron  spider  and  let  it  get  hot,  but  not  so  the  butter  will  burn. 
Then  pour  the  mixture  in  and  put  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  in  the  spider. 
It  takes  about  10  minutes  to  bake.  Then  slip  a  knife  under  and  loosen,  and 
slip  off  on  a  large  plate  or  platter. — Mrs.  L.  K.  P. 

BREAD  CRUMB  OMELET,— Soak  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  1  cup  of  milk, 
and  3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  cook  in  a  little  butter  in  frying 
pan. — L.  E.  Allen,  Monmouth,  111. 

BIRDS'  NEST. — Take  the  same  number  of  eggs  as  there  are  people  to 
serve,  separate  yolks  and  whites.  Beat  each  white  very  stiff  with  a  small  pinch 
of  salt.  Put  on  a  saucer  slightly  greased  with  butter;  put  yolk  in  the  center 
and  bake  until  yolk  is  set. — S.  M.  Toms,  Oakland,  Cal. 

DEVILED  EGGfS.— Take  1  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs;  cut  them  in  halves  and 
remove  yolks.  Mash  yolks  and  mix  with  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one 
small  teaspoon  of  mustard,  and  enough  vinegar  to  soften  the  mixture.  Strain 
and  fill  the  whites.  '  A  little  cold  boiled  ham,  chopped  fine,  may  be  added  to  the 
mixture. — Mrs.  Fred  Martin,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

FRENCH  OMELETTE.— One  dozen  eggs,  1  pint  milk,  1  scant  teaspoon  of 
salt,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  1  small  onion,  1  bunch  of  parsley.  Separate  the  eggs, 
whites  from  the  yolks,  and  add  the  onion  and  parsley  chopped  fine,  to  the 
beaten  yolks;  also  add  the  sugar,  milk  and  salt,  and  then  beat  the  whites  light 
and  place  all  together.  Have  a  small  quantity  of  lard  in  the  pan,  and  fry  a 
little  at  a  time,  stirring  while  it  cooks. — H.  B.  Fay,  Ada,  Okla. 

PUFF  OMELET. — For  a  large  omelet  take  6  eggs,  use  2  tablespoons  of  milk 
to  every  egg.  Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  milk  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  lightly  through  the  mixture.  Melt  about  a 
teaspoon  of  lard  and  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  when  it  smokes  put  in  the  mix- 
ture. Set  on  a  moderate  hot  part  of  the  stove  till  the  egg  sets,  then  fold  over 
and  turn  on  to  a  hot  platter. — Mary  Ames,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS. — Six  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices  and  set  aside.  One 
cup  of  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  gravy  and  a  little  milk  or  cream.  Add 
V2  cup  of  thick  drawn  butter  into  which  has  been  beaten  the  yolk  of  1  egg. 
One  cup  of  meat  or  fish  chopped  fine,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  all  together  except- 
ing the  sliced  eggs.  Place  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  deep  buttered  dish,  then 
a  layer  of  sliced  eggs,  first  dropping  each  slice  in  melted  butter;  then  another 
layer  of  bread  crumbs  until  the  eggs  are  used.  Have  crumbs  on  top  and  cover 
with  dish  and  bake. — Mrs.  H.  Bauer,  Newark,  N.  J. 

SWEET  OMELET. — Six  eggs,  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  2  tablespoons  butter.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Add  sugar 
to  yolks,  beating  thoroughly  until  smooth  and  thick.  Whites  should  stand  alone. 
Put  2  tablespoons  butter  in  frying  pan,  heat  to  boiling,  add  vanilla  to  omelet, 
pour  in  and  cook  quickly.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  sift  powdered  sugar  on  top, 
serve  instantly  or  it  will  fall.-^Mrs.  McNamara,  Brooklyn. 


Beans  of  all  kinds  must  be  very  slowly  and  thoroughly  cooked  if 
they  are  to  be  eaten  by  children 

22 


SANDWICHES  AND  FILLING 

CUCUMBER  SANDWICHES.— Slice  cucumber  thin  and  place  in  salt  water 
until  ready  to  use.  Butter  thin  slices  of  bread.  Roll  the  cucumber  in  Mayon- 
naise dressing  and  place  between  2  slices  of  bread. — Mrs.  R.  Marsh,  Westfield, 
N.  J. 

DEVILED  HAM  SANDWICHES One  eup  cold  boiled  ham,  1  teaspoon  of 

lemon  juice,  yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  V^  teaspoon  of  mustard,  3  tablespoons 
melted  butter.  Chop  the  ham  fine.  Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  smooth  with  the 
butter,  mix  with  the  ham,  mustard  and  lemon  juice,  and  season  to  taste.  Spread 
on  thin  slices  of  bread. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Hoyt,  Owosso. 

OLIYE  SANDWICHES.— Chop  6  olives  fine  and  add  a  scant  tablespoon  of 
salad  dressing.  Mix  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread.  Very  good. — A.  Butler, 
Waldwick.  N.  J. 

OYSTER  SANDWICHES.— Take  a  pint  of  raw  oysters  and  chop  them  very 
fine.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Put  them  in  a  pan  with  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
3  tablespoons  of  dry  bread  crumbs.  After  cooking  for  5  minutes  they  are  ready 
to  make  up  in  sandwiches  with  Mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  R.  Marsh,  Westfield, 
N.  J. 

NUT  SANDWICH  FILLINGS.— One  cup  walnut  meats,  2  cream  cheese,  1 
small  bottle  pimentoes.  Chop  all  together  and  use  with  brown  or  Graham 
bread. — Mrs.  E.  Reese,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

NUT  SANDWICHES.— Chop  fine  some  almonds,  English  walnuts  and  hick- 
ory nuts,  separately.  Mix  2  parts  almonds  to  1  of  each  of  the  others.  Sprinkle 
over  buttered  slices  of  bread  as  much  as  will  stick  to  it;  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
little  grated  cheese;  cover  with  another  slice  of  bread. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Burg, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES.— Skin  and  bone  a  dozen  sardines;  cut  fine.  Mix 
with  1  hard  boiled  egg  yolk,  small  spoonful  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  little  celery 
salt,  and  a  little  minced,  sour  pickle.  Spread  on  bread,  and  serve. — Mrs.  D.  B. 
Harrison,  N.  Y. 


CHEESE 


CHEESE  WALNUTS.^ — One  cake  of  cream  cheese,  roll  this  in  as  many  balls 
the  size  of  a  medium  sized  marble.  Have  whole  English  walnut  meats  ready  to 
place  1  on  each  side  of  a  ball,  pressing  just  a  little  together  gives  the  appear- 
ance of  creamed  walnut  candy.  Serve  with  salads. — Mrs,  R.  Marsh,  Westfield, 
N.  J. 

CHEESE  STRAWS.— One  cup  of  grated  cheese,  l^  cup  of  flour,  i^  cup  of 
butter,  small  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  V2  scant  tea- 
spoon of  mustard,  3  teaspoons  of  cold  water;  mix  all  together,  roll  out  as  thin 
as  pie  crust,  cut  in  narrow  strips  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  B.  L.  Lambert, 
Bound  Brook,  N.  J. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLES.— Two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour, 
%  cup  sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper;  boil  these  together,  then  when  nearly  cold 
add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs;  1  cup  grated  cheese;  stir  in  the  whites  lightly  and 
bake  15  or  20  minutes. — M.  Dixon,  Dixon,  111. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE.— Three  eggs.  9  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  1%  cups 
of  milk,  3  teaspoons  of  flour,  lYz  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.    Beat  whites  of 


Half  cup  cold  water  mixed  in  with  each  pound  of  prepared  steak 
will  make  it  much  Juicier 


23 


eggs  and  add  last.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  Vz  hour.  After  baking  10 
minutes  stir  from  the  bottom  to  avoid  the  cheese  settling.  This  amount  will 
serve  5  people. — H.  H.  Anderson,  Rahway,  N.  J. 

CHEESE  BALLS. — Grate  1  cup  of  cheese.    Beat  into  it  the  beaten  white  of 

1  egg.    Mix  into  tiny  balls  and  fry  in  smoking  fat. — S.  M.  Toms,  Ada,  Okla. 

CHEESE  FONDU — Boil  1  pint  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  butter;  wet  2  table- 
spoons of  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  in  the  boiling  milk  with  V^  pound 
of  cheese  grated.  When  the  cheese  melts  set  off  fire  and  season  with  salt. 
Beat  4  eggs  separately  and  stir  in  the  cheese  mixture.  Pour  in  deep  pudding 
dish  (as  it  increases  to  about  twice  its  size)  and  bake  20  minutes.  —  Mrs. 
McKnight,  Oil  City,  Pa. 

MACAROM  WLTK  CHEESE^— One-quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  cooked 
in  boiling  water  twenty  minutes.  Drain.  Make  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, and  1  of  flour,  and  IVz  cups  of  hot  milk,  salted.  Put  a  layer  of  cheese  in 
bottom  of  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  macaroni  and  1  of  sauce,  and  proceed  in 
this  manner  until  all  are  used.  Cover  top  with  bread  crumbs,  placing  bits  of 
butter  and  a  little  cheese  over  it.  Bake  until  brown. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Howe,  Brook- 
lyn, N.  Y, 

SCALLOPED  CHEESE.— Three  slices  of  bread,  well  buttered;  %  pound  of 
cheese,  grated;  break  bread  into  small  pieces,  place  in  baking  dish  in  layers 
alternating  with  the'  cheese.  Mix  3  well  beaten  eggs  with  2  cups  of  milk  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Pour  over  bread  and  cheese.  Bake  %  of  an  hour, 
and  serve  immediately. — A.  Henning,  Glen  Falls,  N.  Y. 

WELSH  EARESIT.— One  half  pound  of  cheese,  1  egg,  5  tablespoons  of  milk ; 
beat  the  eggs,  add  the  milk  and  cheese,  cut  fine  or  grated;  add  small  spoonful 
salt,  pinch  of  cayenne  and  mustard,  cook  until  cheese  is  entirely  melted.  Serve 
hot  on  toast  or  crackers. — B.  Pettittgrau,  Bowen,  111. 

TTELSH  RAREBIT.— To  1  quart  of  warm  milk  grate  or  slice  thin  %  of  a 
pound  of  cheese.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  sliced  toasted  bread. 
This  is  a  nice  breakfast  dish. — Mrs.  J.  J.  Houston,  Adams,  Tenn. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES  AND  FRITTERS 

APPLE  FRITTERS.— Make  a  batter  with  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  2  eggs,  white  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  mixed  with  flour.  Chop  some  good,  tart  apples  rather  coarse, 
mix  them  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  They  are  delicious  if  served  with 
maple  syrup. — J.  W.  Eskholme,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

APPLE  FRITTERS.— Make  batter  with  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 

2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  2  cups  flour  and  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder  mixed  with  flour.  Chop  some  good  tart  apples,  mix  in  the  batter,  fry 
in  hot  lard. — Jennie  McArthur,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

APPLE  FRITTERS.— Beat  2  eggs  without  separating;  add  i^  cup  of  milk 
and  2-3  cup  flour;  stir  into  this  2  good  sized  apples  chopped  fine;  add  heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Serve  with 
powdered  sugar.  This  is  nice  with  bananas  instead  of  apples,  omitting  sugar 
when  served. — Mrs.  G.  Strain,  Brooklyn.  N,  Y, 

BEEF  FRITTERS.— Make  a  batter  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs.  2  tablespoons  of 
water,  1  of  butter,  flour  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  for  fritters;  add  chopped 


Rice  fritters  are  delicious  and  can  be  served  with  a  sweet  sauce 
as  a  dessert  or  plain  as  a  vegetable 

24 


cooked  beef,  pepper  and  salt.    Drop  by  small  spoonfuls  into  hot  lard.    Serve  hot. 
—Mrs.  L.  Smith,  Warwick,  N.  Y. 

CRACKER  FRITTERS.— One  pint  cracker  crumbs,  4  eggs,  1  gill  of  milk, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  fat.  These  served  with 
chops  are  fine. — Iva  Staley,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

CLAM  FRITTERS.— Two  dozen  clams.  %  cup  of  clam  liquor,  1  tablespoon 
of  lemon  juice,  2  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs  light 
without  separating.  Scald  the  clams  in  their  own  liquor,  drain  and  chop  fine. 
Skim  the  liquor,  add  the  eggs,  lemon  juice  and  the  flour  gradually.  Mix  well, 
add  the  clams,  season  and  fry  by  spoonfuls  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  Petherbridge, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CORN  FRITTERS.— One  cup  of  sweet  corn,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  cup  of  flour,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  until  light;  add  to  the  corn  with  the  milk,  flour  and  salt.  Beat 
until  light  and  smooth;  add  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth,  add  the 
baking  powder.  Mix  lightly  and  quickly ;  fry  on  a  hot  griddle  or  in  the  chafing 
dish.— M.  C.  Daw,  Holly,  N.  Y. 

CORN  OYSTERS.— Grate  6  ears  of  corn,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  dash  of  salt  and 
pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  flour.  Add  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Fry  same  as 
oysters. — Mrs.  Wm.  Harrington,  Paterson,  N.  J. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES.— One  pint  buttermilk,  2  eggs,  1  scant  teaspoon  salt, 
1  scant  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  buttermilk;  enough  flour  to  make 
a  batter  thick  enough  to  drop  off  a  spoon. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Caskey. 

ORANGE  FRITTERS.— Six  large  oranges,  peeled  and  sliced;  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  about 
as  stiff  as  if  for  flannel  cakes;  dip  the  oranges  into  the  batter,  being  sure  that 
they  are  well  covered  by  it,  then  fry  in  plenty  of  boiling  lard;  drain  on  coarse 
brown  paper,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  fritters  and  serve. — E.  Van  Buskirk, 
Westfield,  N.  J. 

OATMEAL  PANCAKES.— One  cup  cold  boiled  oatmeal,  Vz  cup  sweet  milk, 
V2  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  egg.  Fry  as  you  would  any  griddle 
cakes. — Mrs.  Purcell,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

PANCAKES. — To  4  tablespoons  of  prepared  flour  add  enough  milk  to  make 
an  ordinary  batter.  Beat  4  egg  yolks  very  light  and  stir  them  into  the  batter. 
Stir  in  a  scant  teaspoon  of  salt  and  fold  in  the  stiffened  whites  of  the  eggs.  Melt 
a  little  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  pour  in  enough  batter  to  cover  the  bottom  of 
the  pan.  When  the  pancake  is  done  on  one  side  turn  it.  Pile  the  pancakes  on 
top  of  each  other  on  a  plate,  strewing  each  one  thickly  with  powdered  sugar, 
or  maple  sugar,  or  spreading  each' with  jelly  or  honey.  Cut  in  triangles,  as  pie 
is  cut,  and  eat  very  hot. — Mrs.  E.  Jordan,  Chicago,  111. 

ROYAL  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES.— Two  cups  of  buckwheat,  1  cup  of  wheat 
flour,  2  tablespoons  of  Royal  baking  powder,  i/^  teaspoon  of  salt;  all  sifted  well 
together. — A.  Denfield,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

TOMATO  FRITTERS.— One  pint  of  tomatoes,  canned  or  fresh,  chopped  fine 
and  salted  to  taste,  1  egg,  suflBcient  flour  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  %  teaspoon 
of  soda  dissolved  in  water.  Drop  from  the  spoon  into  very  hot  lard  with  a  little 
butter  to  make  them  brown  and  serve  hot. — Table  Talk. 


Every  child  should  be  taught  to  eat  good,  nourishing  soups  and 
salads,  as  well  as  the  more  solid  foods 


I 


25 


MUFFINS  AND  GEMS 


CORN  DODGERS.— Two  cups  white  cornmeal,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  3  table- 
spoons milk,  1  of  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  2  eggs.  Scald  the  meal,  add  the  butter 
melted,  the  sugar,  salt  and  milk.  Mix  well  and  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  until  light,  add  to  the  batter  and  beat  until  smooth.  Whip  the  whites  to  a 
stiff,  dry  froth,  and  mix  gently  and  quickly  with  the  batter.  Put  by  the  table- 
spoon into  greased  popover  pans,  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown  in  a  very  hot 
oven. — Mrs.  Grace  Neal,  Durham,  N.  C. 

CORN  MUFFINS.— One  cup  corn  meal,  after  sifted;  2  cups  flour,  2  eggs, 
well  beaten;  IVz  cups  of  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, 2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  together,  then 
add  milk  and  eggs;  add  butter  last;  bake  well  done. — Mrs.  J.  Starr,  Phila. 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS.— Three  cups  corn  meal,  %  cup  sifted  flour,  3  eggs, 
well  beaten;  2  large  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda  (dissolved),  1  pint 
buttermilk,  1  tablespoon  molasses.  Beat  well  together  and  pour  into  rings  and 
bake  brown.    Add  a  pinch  of  salt  while  beating. — M.  H.  S.  Jackson. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. — Two  cups  Graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour,  1  egg,  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  salt,  milk  to  make 
a  stiff  batter;  all  white  flour  may  be  used  by  adding  a  little  butter. — Grace  Col- 
lins, Westfield,  N.  J. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. — One  pint  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon 
sugar,  2y2  cups  Graham  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  shortening. — Mrs.  A.  McGeoch, 
Argyle,  N.  Y. 

HERMTS. — Three  eggs,  1  cup  butter,  li^  cups  sugar.  1  cup  seeded  raisins, 
chopped,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  milk  and  flour  enough  to  roll 
out,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk. — P.  E.  Welch,  Westfleld. 

LUNCHEON  MUFFINS.— For  1  dozen  muiflns  use  1  pint  of  flour,  a  gener- 
ous V2  pint  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  Yz  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  3  of  butter,  and  2  eggs.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients  together  and 
rub  through  a  sieve.  Melt  the  butter.  Beat  the  eggs  till  light  and  add  the  milk 
to  them.  Add  this  mixture  to  the  dry  Ingredients,  then  stir  in  the  melted  but- 
ter. Beat  the  batter  vigorously  for  a  few  seconds,  and  then  put  in  buttered 
muflin  pans  and  bake  for  about  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  J.  Brown, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

OATMEAL  GEMS.^ — Soak  over  night  in  1  pint  of  milk  1  pint  of  oatmeal. 
In  the  morning  add  2  beaten  eggs,  2^4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  bake  in  gem  pans  in  quick  oven. — Mrs. 'J.  Guthrie,  Ada,  Okla. 

PECULIARS. — One  pint  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  a  little 
salt,  1  egg,  1  pint  sweet  milk,  beat  well  and  bake  quick  in  buttered  gem  pans.— 
Mrs.  G.  W,  Filkins,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

QUICK  MUFFINS.— Two  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add  to 
1  egg,  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  %  tea- 
spoon salt  and  1  cup  milk.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Nesbit, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

RICE  MUFFINS.— One  cup  boiled  rice,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  butter,  2  eggs.  Melt  the  butter,  add  to  the  milk. 
Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  the  rice,  and  mix  this  with  the  flour.  Add 
the  milk  gradually,  beating  until  light  and  smooth.  Whip  the  wJaites  to  a  stiff, 
dry  froth  and  add  to  the  batter  with  the  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Turn  into  hot,  greased  muffln  pans,  and  bake  25  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Fisher,  Omaha,  Neb. 


Nothing  is  more  appetizing  for  supper  on  a  cold  night  than  a  care- 
fully made  and  savory  chowder 

26 


TEA  MUFFINS, — One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  %  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  milk, 
2  eggs,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Separate 
the  eggs,  add  to  the  beaten  yolks  the  milk,  salt  and  butter.  Mix  the  flour  and 
baking  powder  together  and  add  the  milk.  Give  this  a  thorough  beating  and 
add  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  muffin  pans  in  quick  oven. — A.  C.  Kennedy, 
Dumas,  Ark. 

TWIN  MOUNTAIN  MUFFINS.— Cream  1-3  cup  butter,  add  gradually  %  cup 
of  sugar  and  ^/4  teaspoon  salt,  add  1  egg.  beaten  light;  %  cup  milk,  2  cups 
sifted  flour  and  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem 
pans.    Makes  9  muffins. — Mrs.  J.  Brittingham,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

WHEAT  MUFFINS.— One  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  2  of  baking  powder, 
pinch  salt,  ^^  cup  milk,  1  egg,  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  melted  and  put  in 
last.— Mrs.  J.  Fisher,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

WHEAT  GEMS.— One-half  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  3  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt. — Mary  Conklin, 
Argyle,  N.  Y. 


BREAD 


To  bake  bread  have  the  oven  at  a  moderate,  even  temperature,  about  the 
same  as  for  cake. 

For  biscuits  the  oven  should  be  hot.  The  biscuits  will  be  soggy  unless 
baked  quickly.    When  rolling  biscuits  do  not  cut  too  thin  or  they  will  be  hard. 

BREAD. — Half  pint  mashed  potatoes,  %  teacup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  salt, 
1  cake  magic  yeast,  soaked  in  warm  water;  1  pint  luke  warm  water.  Make  this 
day  before  using.  At  noon  next  day  add  the  same  quantities  except  yeast  cake; 
let  stand  till  bedtime;  save  out  1  pint  for  next  time  and  mix  flour,  adding  a 
little  lard  and  more  water  if  needed.  1  quart  of  flour  makes  1  large  loaf.  Mix 
moderately  stiff;  let  stand  till  morning;  make  into  loaves  and  bake.  At  next 
baking  time  use  pint  of  yeast  saved  instead  of  yeast  cake  with  other  ingredi- 
ents, as  before,  and  repeat  the  process. — Mrs.  C.  French,  N.  Y. 

BEEAD,  2  LOAVES. — Two  quarts  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  lard, 
y2  can  condensed  milk,  Vz  cake  yeast  (compressed),  1  quart  water.  Take  quart 
measure  and  put  lard  and  milk  in ;  fill  with  warm  water  and  add  the  yeast  cake. 
Mrs.  Hohenstein,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

BREAD. — Handful  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  lard,  2  of  sugar,  1  yeast  cake  dis- 
solved in  6  cups  of  luke  warm  water  and  milk;  flour  enough  to  make  a  sponge. 
When  light  knead  up  into  a  loaf;  then  let  it  raise  again.  Make  into  6  loaves 
and  when  light  bake.— A.  Kilpatrick,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

BREAD  WITH  MILK.— Heat  3  pints  of  milk  to  a  boiling,  cool  until  luke 
warm,  add  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  cake  of  yeast  and  sifted  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter,  mix  for  ten  minutes;  let  raise  over  night  in  a  warm  place.  Mix  and 
shape  into  loaves,  let  raise  for  10  minutes,  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until 
done. — Lizzie  Schneider,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

BROWN  BREAD. — One  cup  molasses,  3  cups  sour  milk,  2  cups  Craham 
flour,  2  cups  yellow  cornmeal.  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  of  salt.  Mix  soda  with  table- 
spoon boiling  water,  thoroughly  dissolve,  pour  into  molasses,  beat  until  foamy, 
and  gradually  add  other  ingredients.  Pour  into  well  buttered  tins  and  steam 
4  hours. — Mrs.  Cowenhoven,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

BROWN  BREAD.— Take  2  cups  good  white  meal,  1  cup  of  rye  flour  sifted, 
%  cup  molasses,  teaspoon  of  soda  mixed  with  hot  water,  stir  all  together  and 


Vary  the  highly  seaisoned  foods  with  mild  or  bland  ones 


27 


mix  with  water  or  milk  until  as  thick  as  griddle  cakes.  Pour  in  buttered  pan 
and  put  in  a  moderate  oven  and  let  bake  or  steam  2  or  3  hours.  It  is  nice 
served  hot. — Mrs.  Irons,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

BOSTON  BKOWN  BREAD.— One  cup  Indian  meal,  1%  cups  rye,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  Vz  tablespoon  salt.  Vz  cup  molasses,  %  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  milk. 
Steam  3  hours. — Gladys  Russell,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

COFFEE  BREAD. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  cup  raisins, 
%  cup  of  sour  cream,  lYz  cups  of  milk,  1  quart  sponge  same  as  for  bread,  flour 
enough  to  thicken  it. — Mrs.  Henry  Bauer,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CORJf  BREAD. — One  cup  Indian  meal,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  1  cup  flour,  %  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  melted  butter,  %  teaspoon 
salt.  Mix  the  Indian  meal  and  flour  and  add  the  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  light 
without  separating.  a,dd  the  sugar  and  beat  until  light.  Add  the  milk  and  but- 
ter to  the  eggs  and  sugar,  and  the  mixed  meal  and  flour  to  this,  beating  all  the 
while.  When  light  and  smooth  and  ready  to  bake,  add  the  baking  powder;  turn 
into  a  greased  shallow  pan  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. — Emma 
Holmes,  Essex,  Va. 

CURRANT  LOAF. — Set  the  sponge  the  same  as  for  bread,  or  take  a  quart 
of  bread  sponge,  4  eggs,  2  tablespoons  shortening,  lard  or  butter,  ly^  cups 
sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  %  pound  citron,  1  pound  raisins  (seedless),  1  pound 
currants.  Mix  together,  knead  moderately,  let  raise  once,  mold  in  loaf,  put  in 
pan,  let  raise  and  bake.     It  will  keep  a  long  time. — Mrs.  R.  C.  Rich. 

ELECTRIC  TEAST.— Five  medium  sized  potatoes.  1  pint  hot  water,  1  pint 
cold  water,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  yeast  cake.  For  1  loaf  of  bread,  6  cups  of  flour,  1  cup 
warm  water,  1  cup  yeast,  1  teaspoon  shortening,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  of  salt. — 
Mrs.  M.  Hale,  Argyle,  N.  Y. 

GINGERBREAD. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter,  stirred  to  a 
cream;  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  2  eggs;  mix  well,  stir  dry  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  in  2  cups  flour,  put  in  ginger  or  spice  to  taste,  bake  in  1  loaf, 
1  hour. — Mrs.  Doty,  Brooklyn. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. — Tv/o  and  one-half  cups  of  white  flour,  2^^  cups  Graham 
flour,  1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  even  teaspoon  baking  soda,  1  cup  cold 
water,  or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Bake  very  slowly  at  least  an  hour.^ 
Mrs,  E.  Pearsall,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

HOT  WATER  GINGERBREAD.— One  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  of  ginger,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  V^  cup  boiling  water.  2  cups  flour. 
Stir  carefully  in  molasses,  the  soda,  ginger,  salt  and  butter,  melted;  add  boil- 
ing water  and  lastly  the  sifted  flour.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  deep  cake  tin. 
Good  with  raisins. — Mrs.  M.  McNamara,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

MOLASSES  GINGERBREAD.— One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  Vz  cup 
shortening.  1  cup  water,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  water,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 
%  teaspoon  cinnamon,  4  cups  flour.  Stir  molasses,  sugar,  spices  and  shorten- 
ing together  thoroughly,  then  add  water  and  flour;  stir  hard. — Mrs.  Manuel, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

POTATO  BREAD. — Boil  six  or  eight  good  sized  potatoes,  mash  fine  while 
hot,  add  one  quart  sweet  milk,  Vz  cup  white  sugar,  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  1  cake 
of  yeast,  have  ready  a  pan  of  sifted  flour,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  stir  in  the 
ingredients,  do  this  about  six  o'clock.  If  light  before  you  retire,  stir  down 
and  sprinkle  the  top  with  flour,  mix  in  the  morning.  If  your  yeast  is  good  you 
will  never  have  poor  bread. — Lizzie  Schneider,  Brooklyn. 


Place  in  a  cardboard  box  a  layer  of  ordinary  flour,  then  lay  the 
forks  and  spoons  upon  it  and  cover  thickly  with  flour.  They  v/ill 
remain  quite  bright  for  any  length  of  time. 

28 


SALT  RISING  BREAD.— Boil  a  pint  of  water  and  stir  into  it  V2  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  add  a  little  at  a  time,  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter  or  a  soft 
dough.  Beat  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  over  night, 
or  eight  hours.  Into  2  cups  of  luke  warm  milk  stir  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  add 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  then  add  to  it  the  risen  dough.  Knead  well, 
adding  enough  flour  to  make  an  ordinary  dough.  Make  into  loaves  and  set 
these  to  rise.     When  light  bake. — Mrs.  Jennie  King. 

SPOIfGE  GINGERBREAD.— One  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  molasses.  IVa  cup 
butter,  Vz  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  2  cups  flour. 
Warm  the  butter,  molasses  and  ginger  together,  add  the  milk,  flour  and  egg  and 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  last  the  soda  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  of  warm  water.  Bake 
in  shallow  pans. — Mrs.  J.  Brittingham,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

YEAST  AND  BREAD.— Pare  and  boil  6  large  potatoes.  When  done  add 
enough  boiling  water  to  scald  1  pint  of  flour;  stir  in  mashed  potatoes,  add  1 
tablespoon  salt  and  1  of  sugar.  When  done  have  it  as  thin  as  batter  cakes; 
if  not  thin  enough  add  cold  water.  When  lukewarm  add  2  cakes  yeast  foam, 
well  soaked;  keep  warm  until  fermentation  ceases.  This  will  make  30  ordinary 
sized  loaves  of  bread.  Keep  in  a  cool  cellar.  For  bread:  In  the  morning  use 
1  pint  of  yeast  to  3  pints  of  warm  water;  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
salt  and  1  tablespoon  lard  in  flour  sufficient  to  make  6  loaves;  make  up  stiff  at 
once;  let  raise,  work  down.  When  light  mould  into  loaves. — Mrs.  A.  J,  Van 
Epps,  Owosso,  Mich. 


BISCUITS 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS.^Two  large  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
sifted  in  1  sieve  of  flour,  small  piece  of  butter,  1  pint  of  milk,  add  enough  flour 
to  roll  out  very  soft,  ingredients  must  be  cold,  and  quick  oven  to  make  light 
and  flaky  biscuits. — A.  W.  Burg.  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

BISCUIT. — Three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  14  teaspoon  salt,  butter  size  of 
a  walnut  to  1  quart  of  flour  if  milk  is  used,  but  if  water  is  used,  3  tablespoons 
will  be  required.  Sift  the  baking  powder  well  through  the  flour,  add  salt,  work 
the  butter  in  thoroughly,  mix  lightly  and  quickly  with  the  milk  or  water  into  a 
soft  dough,  roll  out  %  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven. — Lizzie  Schneider,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

BISCUIT. — One-half  cup  lard,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  li/^  cups  sweet 
milk,  pinch  of  salt,  flour  to  roll.  Stir  as  little  as  possible. — Mrs.  M.  A.  King, 
Ovid,  Mich. 

DROP  BISCUIT.— One  pint  flour,  1  small  spoon  butter,  rub  until  like 
sand;  pinch  salt.  2  teaspoons  sugar,  1  of  baking  powder,  mix  thoroughly,  make 
a  hole  in  the  flour,  add  milk  gradually  till  very  thick,  but  not  stiff  enough  to 
knead;  drop  on  pan  in  oblong  mounds  two  inches  apart. — E.  M.  Young,  Frank- 
ford,  Pa. 

HASTY  BISCUITS Hasty  biscuits  require  1  cup  of  flour  with  ^  a  table- 
spoon each  of  lard  and  butter  rubbed  through,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
and  a  little  salt;  wet  with  cold  milk  till  they  will  drop  from  the  end  of  a  spoon 
on  to  a  buttered  pan ;  brush  over  with  milk  and  sugar  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
— M.  E.  Williams,  Meadville,  Pa. 

MARTHA  WASHINGTON  BISCUIT.— One  pint  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  of  melted  butter,  1  cup  of 
water,  2  eggs,  nutmeg;  fry  in  boiling  lard. — Mrs.  L.  Smith,  Warwick,  N.  Y. 


To  remove  paint  from  windo-w  glass  rub  it  well  with  hot, 
sharp  vinegar. 


29 


MILK  BISCUIT.— Sift  1  quart  flour  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and 
Vz  of  salt;  rub  in  shortening,  butter  and  lard  mixed,  size  of  an  egg,  and  wet 
with  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Do  not  handle  too  much.  Roll 
about  1  inch  thick;  cut  the  size;  bake  20  minutes.  Do  not  have  the  oven  too 
hot  at  first;  increase  the  heat. — Mrs.  John  Dillon,  Elizabeth,  N.  J. 

MILK  BISCUIT. — One  pint  flour;  %  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  milk.  Stir  together  the  flour,  baking  pow- 
der, and  salt;  rub  in  the  butter.  Add  the  milk  carefully;  roll,  cut  out,  bake  in 
15  minutes. — Agnes  H.  Kennedy,  Tyler.  Texas. 

SODA  BISCUITS. — Take  a  saucer  of  flour  and  sift  with  1  teaspoon  of  soda, 
add  3  cups  of  buttermilk.  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  just  enough  more  flour  to  roll  out. 
To  make  especially  nice  use  V2  cup  of  sour  cream  and  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
buttermilk  instead  of  3  cups  of  buttermilk. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Reason. 

TEA  BISCUITS. — Three  cups  flour,  1  scant  tablespoon  lard,  rub  together 
pinch  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough  and 
roll  out.— Mrs.  Hildebrant,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

SODA  BISCUITS. — One  pint  sour  buttermilk,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt, 
1  level  teaspoon  soda.  1  rounding  teaspoon  baking  powder.  1  large  tablespoon 
lard.  Sift  soda  and  baking  powder  in  the  flour  and  mix  soft  enough  to  roll. 
Bake  in  quick  oven. — M.  E.  Williams,  Meadville,  Pa. 

POTATO  BISCUITS. — One  pint  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  yeast,  Vz  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  lard,  3  eggs,  1  quart  flour.  Mix  all  together  in  the  morning  and  set  to 
rise ;  at  noon  take  the  mixture,  work  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  rolls ;  roll 
to  about  an  inch  thick  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Fill  baking  pan;  leave  rise 
till  about  20  minutes  before  tea,  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  L.  Hess,  Oil 
City,  Pa. 

TEA  BISCUIT.^-One  quart  sweet  milk,  1  cup  butter,  %  cup  sugar,  1  gill 
of  yeast,  flour  to  make  a  sponge;  when  light  make  a  dough;  knead  twice,  bake 
20  minutes. — Mrs.  G.  Jenkins,  Lewes,  Del. 


ROLLS 


BRAN  MUFFINS. — One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  bran  flour,  1  cup 
flour,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  pinch  salt.  Bake  in  gem  pans.  Note — This  recipe 
is  used  by  some  families  regularly  twice  a  week  as  a  bowel  regulator. 

BUNS. — One  and  one  half  cups  of  warm  milk,  1  cup  of  yeast,  add  flour  to 
make  batter,  raise  over  night,  in  the  morning  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  2-3  cup  of 
butter,  1  cup  stoned  raisins.  Knead  well,  form  in  shape  and  set  to  raise  in  the 
pans  till  right  for  the  oven. — ^N.  K.  Carpenter,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 

CHILDREN'S  RUSK,— One  cake  yeast,  1  pint  luke  warm  milk,  3  pints 
sifted  flour.  1  egg,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, 1  cup  currants. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Pearsall,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

COFFEE  CAKE. — Four  cups  of  flour.  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
3  tablespoons  currants,  1  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  butter.  %  yeast  cake,  about  a  pint 
of  milk.  This  will  make  3  nice  cakes.  When  it  Is  real  light  spread  out  in  flat 
tins  and  set  away  to  get  light.  Spread  butter  over  top,  bake  about  20  minutes. — 
Mrs.  Hohenstein,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CROWNS. — One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  1^  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
small  lump  of  butter,  Vz  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  1  egg,  milk  to  mois- 
ten batter.— Mrs.  Windfeldt,  Westfield,  N.  J. 


A  great  mistake  in  child  feeding  with  many  mothers  is  the  undue 

use  of  starchy  foods 


30 


FREIVCH  TOAST.— Take  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  add  %  cup  of  milk,  a  little 
salt,  mix  together.  Slice  the  bread,  dip  the  bread  in  the  mixture  and  fry  on  a 
hot.  well-greased  griddle.    Serve  hot. — A.  Butler,  Waldwick,  N.  J. 

GRAHAM  WAFERS. — One  pint  of  Graham  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder,  6  tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  a  little  salt.  Wet  with 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  dough  to  roll  thin. — N.  K.  Carpenter,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS.— Three  cups  of  milk  (scalded)  when  cooled  add  half 
yeast  cake  and  flour  for  sponge.  Set  over  night.  In  the  morning,  add  1  cup  of 
sugar,  y2  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  Vz  small  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Set 
to  rise,  when  light,  knead,  set  to  rise  again.  Then  when  light,  cut  in  biscuit 
shape,  let  rise  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Just  before  putting  in  the  oven,  a  cross 
can  be  cut  on  each  with  a  knife. — Mrs.  E.  R.  Pearsall,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

POCKETBOOKS.— Warm  1  quart  of  new  milk,  add  1  cup  of  butter  or  lard, 
4  tablespoons  sugar  and  2  well  beaten  eggs ;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  mod- 
erately stiff  sponge;  add  a  small  cup  of  yeast  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  raise, 
which  will  take  3  or  4  hours.  Then  mix  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
and  let  raise  again.  When  well  risen  dissolve  a  lump  of  soda  the  size  of  a 
bean  in  a  spoon  of  milk,  work  it  into  the  dough  and  roll  into  sheets  Vz  inch 
thick;  spread  with  thin  layer  of  butter,  cut  into  squares  and  fold  over  pocket- 
book  shape.  Put  into  pans  to  rise  for  a  little  while,  when  they  will  be  ready 
for  the  oven.  In  summer  the  sponge  can  be  made  up  in  the  morning  and  rise 
in  time  to  make  for  tea.  In  cold  weather  it  is  best  to  set  it  over  night. — ^Mrs.  M. 
Home,  Monmouth,  111. 

POP  OVERS.— One  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  flour,  1  egg,  a  little  salt.  Bake 
in  hot  buttered  muffin  tins  in  a  quick  oven. — M.  Barkley,  Argyle,  N.  Y. 

ROLLS. — Scald  1  quart  of  milk  and  let  cool  until  luke  warm;  into  about 
IVz  quarts  flour  work  1  cup  of  lard,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  1  of  salt,  dissolve  com- 
pressed yeast  cake  in  a  little  warm  water  and  add  with  milk  to  flour;  beat  hard 
for  at  least  5  minutes;  add  enough  flour  to  mix  into  hard  loaf;  let  rise  until 
light;  form  into  any  shape  desired.  Let  rise  again.  Bake  about  30  minutes.— 
E.  Q.  Williams.  Meadville,  Pa. 

ROLLS. — Scald  a  pint  of  milk  and  Vz  pint  cream;  when  lukewarm  add  1 
yeast  cake  and  flour  enough  to  mould  on  board.  No  butter,  no  sugar.  When 
mixed  smooth,  paint  with  melted  butter  and  place  in  a  butter  bowl  to  rise. 
When  light  make  into  rolls  and  paint  with  butter  again. — Janet  Turnbull, 
McKeesport,  Pa. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS.— Three  cups  flour.  1  pint  milk  (let  get  hot), 

2  tablespoons  lard,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  little  salt,  Vz  yeast  cake.  Make  sponge. 
Let  stand  2  hours  until  light  then  make  thick  like  bread  and  let  rise  again  until 
light.  Then  make  into  rolls.  Let  stand  i/^  hour.  Bake  20  minutes. — Mrs.  J. 
Johnston,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS.— One  pint  of  milk  scalded  and  cooled.  Vz  cup  of 
butter  and  lard,  Vz  cup  sugar,  Vz  cake  of  yeast,  1  tablespoon  of  salt.  Set  sponge 
with  yeast  and  warm  milk.  When  light  add  shortening,  sugar  and  salt.  When 
light  make  into  round  cakes  Vz  inch  thick.  Butter  Vz  and  fold  over.  Put  in 
pans,  let  rise  again  and  bake. — Mrs.  J.  Ferris,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

ROLLS. — At  noon  take  3  medium  sized  potatoes,  mash,  add  1  cup  of  potato 
water,  2-3  cup  flour  and  when  cool  %  cup  yeast.  Set  in  a  warm  place.  At  9 
o'clock  into  2  parts  of  flour  work  a  handful  of  lard  as  for  pie  crust.  Make  a 
hole  in  the  center  of  this,  and  into  it  put  %  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  salt,  a  pint 
of  cold  scalded  milk  and  the  sponge.    Do  not  stir.     Set  in  a  warm  place  until 

To  extinguish  flames  of  gasolene  or  petroleum  milk  should  be 
used,  the  milk  and  oil  forms  an  emulsion  and  prevents  spreading. 

31 


morning.  In  the  morning  knead  thoroughly  and  set  to  raise  again.  About  10 
o'clock  roll  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter;  place  a  piece  of  butter  on  1  side  and 
fold  over.  Put  the  rolls  a  little  way  apart  in  the  pans.  Raise  till  light.  Bake. 
— Mary  McMillan,  Boston,  Mass. 

KUSKS. — One  cup  warm  water,  not  quite  V2  cake  of  yeast,  set  in  thin  sponge, 
set  early  in  morning.     When  light  add  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  soda,  enough  flour  to  make 
dough.  Warm  the  milk  and  dissolve  the  sugar  in  it.  When  light,  shape  the 
dough  into  small  balls,  like  breakfast  biscuits,  place  close  together  in  pan  and 
set  to  raise.  When  light  brush  the  top  with  syrup,  made  as  follows:  One  table- 
spoon cream,  1  of  sugar,  let  boil  1  minute. — M.  E.  Williams,  Meadville,  Pa. 

RUSK. — One  quart  bread  sponge,  2  tablespoons  sweet  lard,  %  cup  of  sugar, 

2  eggs,  flour  enough  to  roll;  mix  and  knead  on  board.  Let  rise  over  night  or 
until  more  than  double  in  size.  Make  into  biscuits  and  when  light  bake  Vz 
hour.— N.  Scott,  Coila,  N.  Y. 

RUSKS. — One  cup  warm  water,  not  quite  %  cake  of  yeast,  set  in  thin  sponge, 
cup  sugar,  2-3  cup  butter  or  lard,  two  eggs,  beat  the  white  of  1  of  the  eggs, 
sweeten  and  apply  to  the  top.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  A.  Miller,  Bridge- 
ton,  N.  J. 

SALLY  LUNN. — One  or  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  large  teaspoon  sugar, 

3  tablespoons  butter,  little  more  than  2  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der.—Mrs.  W.  S.  Webb,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

SALLY  LUNN, — Beat  1  egg,  add  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  sift  in  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  beat  well,  turn  into  a  greased  pan;  bake  25  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven. — Mrs.  Purcell,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

TIMBALES. — Three-fourths  cup  of  flour,  i^  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 
gradually  add  Vz  cup  of  milk,  1  beaten  egg,  1  tablespoon  olive  oil.  Whip  the 
batter  with  an  egg  beater,  heat  the  timbale  iron  in  the  hot  lard,  then  dip  iron 
in  batter,  and  again  in  hot  lard.  They  will  cook  in  three  or  four  minutes.  Slip 
off  of  iron  and  turn  open  side  down  on  brown  paper. — Mrs.  E.  Easton. 

WAFFLES. — One  quart  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  eggs;  milk 
enough  to  make  a  soft  batter.  One  tablespoon  butter,  tablespoon  salt. — Mrs. 
Hildebrant,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

PASTRY  AND  PIES 

APPLE  APRICOT  PIE.— Two  cups  flour,  %  cup  butter  and  lard,  salt  to 
taste.  1%  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Ice  water  enough  to  make  a  thick  paste, 
roll  out  thin  and  have  ready  for  filling.  Tart  pie  apples  and  apricots,  that 
have  been  well  stewed,  <jven  proportions,  season  with  nutmeg  and  a  little  but- 
ter, fill  cover  and  bakes  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  J,  Willis,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

APPLE  CREAM  PIE.— Take  1  pint  stewed  apples,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk, 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  beaten  eggs,  little  cinnamon  or  grated  nutmeg, 
and  V2  glass  cider.  If  too  thin  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  flour.  Bake  between 
2  crusts.— Mrs.  F.  Moffett,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

APPLE  PIE. — Make  an  under  crust  and  cover  with  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  of  flour.  Place  on  this,  flat  side  down,  apples  which  have  been  pared,  cored 
and  cut  into  halves.  On  each  half  put  a  little  butter.  Cover  all  with  sugar  and 
moisten  with  a  little  water.  Bake  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon. — Mrs.  L.  Wil- 
liams, Detroit.  Mich. 


Household  ammonia  added  to  the  water  in  which  dishes  are 
washed  will  destroy  the  smell  of  fish 

32 


BANANA  PIE. — Line  a  pie  pan  with  crust  and  bake.  When  done  cover  the 
bottom  with  slices  of  bananas  cut  long  and  thin.  Two  are  enough  for  1  pie. 
Then  fill  the  pan  with  the  following  custard:  Two  glasses  of  milk,  2  table- 
spoons cornstarch,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  in  double  boiler 
until  it  thickens.  Then  pour  in  the  pie  pan.  Cover  the  top  with  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. — M.  G.  Dixon,  Dixon, 

CAKAIffEL  PIE. — One  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  Damson  preserves, 
5  eggs,  1  tablespoon  vanilla;  beat  yolks,  eggs  and  sugar  together  till  light,  then 
add  preserves  and  melted  butter,  beat  the  whites  stiff  and  add  last;  bake  with- 
out top  crust. — Mrs.  T.  Stewart,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

CHERET  PIE. — Stone  1  quart  of  cherries,  saving  all  the  juice.  Add  l^^ 
cups  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  stir  until  well  mixed.  Fill  the  pie 
plate,  lined  with  pastry,  cover  with  the  upper  crust  and  bake.  When  canned 
cherries  are  used,  take  only  half  the  juice  to  the  same  amount  of  cherries, 
sugar  and  flour. — Miss  Ernst  Anderson,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal. 

CREAM  PIE. — One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der; filling,  1  cup  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  egg,  flavoring.  Split 
the  cake,  remove  the  top,  spread  the  cream,  then  replace  top. — M.  N.  Beveridge, 
Little  Rock,  N.  Y. 

CREAM  PIE. — Two  eggs,  yolks  only,  a  little  salt,  2-3  cup  sugar,  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  2  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  flavoring. 
Cook  all  together  and  when  thick  turn  into  a  plate  well  lined  with  crust  and 
bake.  Use  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue  with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.—  M.  Irwin, 
Argyle,  N.  Y. 

CURRANT  PIE.— One  cup  currants,  mashed,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egsr,  1  table- 
spoon cornstarch,  dissolved  in  milk  or  cold  water.  Meringue  on  top  —Mrs.  W. 
S.  Webb,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

COCOANUT  PIE. — Chop  a  good  sized  cocoanut  in  fine  pieces.  Add  to  2  cups 
of  scalded  milk  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  beaten 
together.  Dissolve  2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  all 
together,  cooking  slowly  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  cocoanut 
and  cream.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
other  flavoring,  and  pour  over  the  pie,  having  first  baked  bottom  crust  and 
brushed  lightly  with  white  of  egg.— Brown  in  quick  oven. — S.  Barnett,  Omaha, 
Neb. 

COCOANUT  PIE.— Grate  i^  of  a  cocoanut.  Scald  2  cups  of  milK.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  light  with  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  add  two  tablespoons  of 
cornstarch  and  mix  with  the  scalded  milk.  Cook  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  take 
from  fire,  add  %  cup  of  cream,  and  the  cocoanut  and  put  away  to  cool.  '  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth,  add  to  the  custard  with  %  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Bake  the  bottom  crust,  brush  with  white  of  egg,  put  in  custard  and 
brown  in  a  quick  oven. — Miss  Anna  Butler,  Waldwick,  N.  J. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE.— One  cup  milk.  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  grated  choc- 
olate, 3  eggs.  Beat  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake 
under  crust.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff  with  two  teaspoons  of  sugar  and  put  on 
top.    Brown. — Mrs.  F.  McD.  Landon,  Genesco,  N.  Y. 


To  remove  fat  from  gravy  place  in  the  pan,  after  removing  the 
meat,  a  lump  of  ice.  The  fat  will  at  once  adhere  to  the  ice,  and  by 
moving  same  around  a  few  times  all  the  fat  will  be  quickly  col- 
lected.   It  soon  hardens  and  then  can  be  removed  easily. 


33 


CUSTARD  PIE.— For  a  large  sized  pie  take  1  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs,  2-3  table- 
spoon of  cornstarch,  Yz  cup  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  on  top. — Mrs.  P.  Rogers, 
Brooklyn.  N,  Y. 

ELDERBEKET  PIE   (Two  Crusts)  .^After  picking  berries  for  1  pie  pour 

1  pint  boiling  water  over  them.  Let  stand  till  cool.  Drain  off  water.  Grate  a 
little  of  the  rind  of  lemon  and  little  lemon  juice.  One  lemon  will  be  sufficient. 
For  3  pies  use  2-3  cup  sugar  and  2  teaspoons  flour. — M.  Arnot,  E.  Greenwich, 

N.  Y. 

LEMON  AND  RAISIN  PIE. — One  cup  raisins  seeded.  1  lemon  sliced  thin; 
remove  seeds;  cut  these  up  fine;  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  water.  Cook  all  to- 
gether until  lemon  and  raisins  seem  tender;  then  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of 
flour  wet  smooth  in  a  very  little  water.  When  cold  use  between  ">.  crusts;  best 
made  the  day  before. — Mrs.  Anna  Leek,  Asheville,  N.  C. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  1.— One  cup  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  eggs 
(leaving  1  white  for  frosting)  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  beat 
thoroughly  and  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  cook  in  a  double  pan.  T.ine  pan  with 
crust  and  bake  quickly,  then  pour  in  lemon  custard,  pouring  the  ''rosting  over 
the  top,  put  in  oven  and  brown. — M.  Reycraft,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  2.— One  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water,  lump  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch,  1  lemon.  Wet  the  corn- 
starch with  cold  water,  add  the  sugar,  butter  and  boiling  water.  Let  all  cook 
together  for  a  few  minutes.  When  cold  add  the  eggs  and  lemon.  To  be  baked 
with  2  crusts. — Mrs.  W.  Whitney,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  4.— Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  a 
small  lump  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  1  cup  boiling  water.  Put  water 
in  pan,  add  cornstarch,  when  it  boils  take  off  stove,  add  butter  and  sugar,  when 
cool  add  the  well  beaten  egg  and  lemon.    Bake  with  two  crusts.— Mrs.  J.  Gasz, 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  5.— One  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  1  cup  boiling 
water,  butter  half  the  size  of  egg;  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  cooked 
together  until  clear ;  when  cold  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Bake  the  crust 
after  thoroughly  picking  with  fork.— Mrs,  A.  C.  Randies.  Adena,  0. 

LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE.— Mix  2  slices  bread  and  2  cups  of  hot  water,  add 

2  cups  sugar,  then  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  3 
lemons.  Beat  well,  place  in  crust  and  bake.  When  done  beat  whites  of  eggs 
stiff,  add  a  little  sugar  and  mould  on  the  pie.  Brown  in  a  very  hot  oven. — Mrs. 
J.  M.  Martin,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

LEMON  AND  APPLE  PIE. — One  apple  chopped,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut. — Helen  McDou- 
gall,  Argyle,  N.  Y. 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE. — Two  cups  powdered  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
2  eggs.  2  lemons,  juice  and  rind  grated,  2  cups  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  cold  water.  Stir  the  cornstarch  into  the  boiling  water, 
cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  pour  over  them  the  hot  mixture.  When  quite 
cool,  add  lemons  and  the  beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  open  shell.  Bake  crust  before 
adding  filling. — Mrs.  Parkhurst,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE. — Rub  a  tablespoon  of  butter  into  a  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  a  tablespoon  of  corn- 
starch, dissolved  in  cold  water,  and  a  teaspoon  of  boiling  water.  Mix  well  and 
add  1  beaten  egg.    Bake  in  an  open  pastry  shell. — A.  E.  Collins,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


If  the  fat  sputters  when  frying  eggs,  sift  into  the  pan  a  little  flour 
before  dropping  in  the  eggs. 


34 


LEMOIV  MOLASSES  PIE.— Take  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  li^  cups  molasses, 
J.  cup  sugar,  2  cups  water,  lump  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  together.  Add 
2  dessertspoons  cornstarch.  This  is  enough  for  2  pies. — Mrs.  Hildebrant,  West- 
field,  N.  J. 

MINCE  PIE. — Chop  meat,  apples  and"  suet  separately,  then  measure  the 
ingredients  thus:  Three  pints  meat,  3  pints  apples,  1  pint  suet,  1  pint  citron, 
2  pints  raisins.  4  pints  sugar,  1  pint  molasses,  1  pint  vinegar,  1  pint  some  kind 
of  syrup.    Add  spice  to  suit. — Mrs.  J.  Warwick,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

MTPfCE  MEAT  FOR  PIES  WITHOUT  MEAT.— Seed  and  chop  2  pounds  of 
raisins,  chop  Impounds  of  beef  suet,  chop  1  pound  of  apples,  %  pound  candied 
orange  peel  and  citron  mixed;  add  2  pounds  currants,  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
2  lemons  and  1  orange;  2  pounds  sugar;  spices,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves,  all- 
spice; pepper,  salt  to  suit  taste,  add  1  quart  of  water.  Cook  until  thick;  seal 
in  cans. — Mrs.  N.  Williams,  Delhi,  N.  Y. 

PIE  CRUST. — Three  cups  flour,  1  heaping  cup  lard,  %  cup  ice  water,  salt. 
Have  lard  very  cold  and  chop  with  a  knife  into  the  flour.  When  chopped  very 
fine  add  water,  little  at  a  time,  still  using  knife  to  mix. — Mrs.  G.  Strain. 

PINEAPPLE  TlE, — Chop  Vz  pint  of  pineapple  fine.  Beat  to  a  cream  1  cup 
of  powdered  sugar  and  V2  cup  of  butter,  and  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten. 
Last  add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  very  lightly.  Turn 
Into  pie  plate  and  bake  with  under  crust  only. — M.  E.  P. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE Grate  1  small  pineapple.    Beat  %  cup  butter  and  1  cup 

of  pov/dered  sugar  together  until  creamy,  add  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  then 
the  pineapple.  When  well  mixed,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff, 
dry  froth,  mix  lightly  and  turn  into  the  pie  plate.  Bake  with  an  under  crust 
only. — Miss  N.  K.  Carpenter,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 

RAISIN  PIE. — One-half  cup  of  large  soft  raisins;  cover  with  1  cup  of  cold 
water  and  soak  2  hours.  Beat  1  egg  until  light  with  1  cup  of  sugar,  add  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  and  mix  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Add  the 
raisins  and  water  in  which  they  have  been  soaking,  and  cook  until  the  mixture 
thickens.    Bake  in  2  crusts. — Miss  Edith  Wilson,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PUMPKIN  PIE, — Pare  ripe  pumpkin,  slice  into  small  pieces,  boil  or  stew 
with  water  enough  to  prevent  burning,  when  quite  tender  rub  the  pulp  through 
a  colander.  To  1  pint  pulp  add  1  pint  milk,  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
ginger  and  nutmeg,  bake  with  1  under  crust. — Mrs.  J.  Proper,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. — One  quart  milk,  2  cups  pumpkin,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
salt  or  to  suit  taste,  2  teaspoons  ginger,  5  eggs.  This  will  make  2  pies.  Pump- 
kin should  be  boiled  at  least  five  hours  and  then  drain  well. — Mrs.  Hohenstein, 
Westfield,  N.  J. 

PUIUPKIN  PIE  FOR  ONE  PIE.— One  cup  pumpkin,  1  cup  milk,  2  eggs, 
Vo  cup  sugar,  %  cup  molasses,  V2  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  a  pinch  of  salt. — Mrs. 
W.  Gill,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

RHUBARB  PIE. — One  cup  of  rhubarb,  and  %  cup  of  raisins,  chopped  fine, 
and  1  pulverized  cracker.  One-half  cup  of  sugar,  Vz  cup  of  molasses,  Vz  cup  of 
water  and  1  egg.  Spice  with  V2  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  a  little  cloves,  nutmeg, 
grated  lemon  rind,  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter.  Bake  slowly  in  two 
crusts.    This  is  enough  for  two  pies. — Miss  N.  K,  Carpenter, 

RHUBARB  CUSTARD  PIE Chop  V2  pint  of  rhubarb  fine  and  spread  over 

crust  laid  in  pie  platter.  Make  a  custard  of  1  pint  of  scalded  milk,  2  well 
beaten  eggs,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Bake  slowly  until  rhubarb  is  tender  and 
custard  browned. — Mrs.  W.  Kryzanowski,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 


Stale  rolls  can  be  deliciously  reheated.  Hold  under  the 
cold  water  faucet  a  minute,  then  heat  until  brown  in  a  very  hot 
oven. 

35 


EAW  SWEET  POTATO  CUSTAED^Pare  and  grate  one  medium  sized 
sweet  potato,  1  egg,  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  water  enough 
to  fill  1  pie  dish.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Jackson,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE.— Two  medium  sized  potatoes,  cook  and  strain 
through  fruit  press,  2  eggs,  1  pint  milk,  flavor  with  nutmeg,  sweeten  to  taste, 
bake  with  1  crust. — Mrs.  M.  Taylor,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

SHOO  FLY  PIES. — Top  part,  3  cups  flour.  1  cup  sugar,  y^  cup  butter  or 
lard;  crumble  like  pie  crust.  Bottom  part,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  water,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  soda,  make  regular  pie  crust  without  top. — Mrs.  Fuller,  Philadel- 
phia, Pa. 

SUMMER  MDfCE  PIES. — One  cup  cracker  crumbs.  One  cup  boiling  water, 
1  of  molasses.  1  of  sugar,  y^  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  and  %  a  cup  of  vinegar. 
One  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1  of  allspice.  V^  a  teaspoon  of  cloves.  %  of  pepper, 
1  nutmeg  and  1  large  cup  of  raisins.  Chop  raisins,  then  add  crackers,  spices, 
sugar,  vinegar  and  molasses  and  last  water. — Miss  Rose  Smith,  New  York. 

TOMATO  PIE. — Take  2  good  sized  tomatoes  when  they  look  green  on  the 
outside,  showing  pink  through.  Pare  and  slice  not  quite  as  full  as  for  apple 
with  1  tablespoon  flour,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Lemon  can  be  used  instead  of  vinegar  and  nutmeg. — Miss  Emma  Holmes, 
Essex,  Va. 

YINEGAE  PIE. — One-half  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  ly^  tablespoons  flour, 
1  of  butter,  add  a  little  water  then  cream  together;  boil  a  cup  of  water,  with  3 
tablespoons  vinegar,  add  the  mixture  with  1  teaspoon  of  lemon;  while  boiling; 
bake  crust,  put  filling  in.  Frost  with  whites  of  2  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  N.  C.  Sears,  Plainfield,  N,  J. 

PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES 

APPLE  AND  TAPIOCA  Pm)DIIfG.--Soak  a  cup  of  tapioca  for  2  hours  in 
cold  water  to  cover  it,  lay  in  a  deep  dish,  apples  pared  and  cored,  pour  over 
them  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  cover  and  set  in  over  till  tender,  when  done  drain 
leaving  apples  in  dish.  Fill  centers  with  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice, 
pour  the  tapioca  over  and  around  the  apples.  Bake  1  hour;  serve  with  hard 
sauce. — Mrs.  J.  Vautin,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

APPLE  SjVOW. — Peel  and  grate  1  large  sour  apple,  sprinkle  over  it  1  small 
cup  powdered  sugar,  as  you  grate  it  to  keep  it  from  turning  dark;  break  into 
this  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  beat  it  all  constantly  for  i^  an  hour  taking  care  to 
have  it  in  a  large  bowl,  as  it  beats  up  very  stiff  and  light.  Heap  this  in  a  glass 
dish  and  pour  a  fine  smooth  custard  around  it  and  serve. — Miss  M.  Hendren, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

AMBROSIA. — Eight  fine  sweet  oranges,  %  grated  cocoanut,  y-^  cup  pow- 
dered sugar.  Arrange  the  orange  in  glass  dish,  scatter  the  grated  cocoanut 
thickly  over  it,  sprinkle  this  lightly  with  sugar,  and  cover  with  another  layer 
of  oranges.  Pill  dish  in  this  order,  having  cocoanut  and  sugar  for  top  layer. — 
M.  Macnamara,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


Squash  will  make  as  good  custard  as  pumpkin.     Cook,  mash, 
add  eggs  and  spices  as  you  would  when  making  pumpkin  pie. 


36 


APPLE  DTJSIPLEyGS.— Peel  and  core  about  7  large  apples.  Then  take  2 
cups  flour,  Vz  cup  shortening,  Ys  cup  cold  water,  %  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  dry,  then  add  the  short- 
ening and  water.  Roll  each  little  piece  separately,  for  each  apple,  and  put 
around  the  apple  with  your  hand.  Bake  in  hot  oven,  with  just  a  trifle  of  hot 
water  in  bottom  of  pan.  Sauce:  Lump  butter,  Yz  cup  sugar,  beaten  together, 
with  3  tablespoons  of  water.  Boil  up  and  flavor  with  any  desired  flavoring. — 
Mrs.  Moffett.  Westfield.  N,  J. 

AMERICAN  CREAM.— One  quart  milk,  3  eggs,  1  package  gelatine,  6  table- 
spoons sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  pinch  salt.  Place  milk  in  boiler  on  fire. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  %  cup  of  water  for  5  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and 
gelatine  together,  stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Remove  from  fire  when  it 
reaches  boiling  point.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  stir  them  in,  also  the  vanilla;  add 
salt  and  turn  into  mould.  Set  on  ice  over  night.  This  will  serve  8  persons. 
— S.  C.  Parker,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

BEEF  PUDDING.— Chop  1  pint  cold  beef  with  a  little  ham,  add  1  cup  of 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  2  beaten  eggs  and  salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste. 
Moisten  with  stock  or  gravy  and  bake  brown. — B.  L.  Pratt,  Alma,  Mich. 

BLACKBERRY  PUDDING.— Two-thirds  cup  sugar.  2-3  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  1  quart  black- 
berries rolled  in  flour.  Bake  and  serve  with  sweetened  cream. — Mrs.  J.  L. 
Thompson,  Reading,  N.  J. 

BOSTON  PUDDING.— One  cup  of  sugar,  2-3  of  butter  or  Vi  of  a  pound  of 
suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2 
tablespoons  molasses,  1  cup  raisins.  Boil  4  hours.  To  be  served  with  sauce. — 
E.  P.  Pettigrew,  Westfield,  N.  J.   • 

BREAD  PUDDING. — One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  sugar,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  thoroughly  and  stir  all  to- 
gether and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown.  Then  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  and  spread  on  top,  replacing  in  oven  until  a  deli- 
cate brown,  and  serve  hot. — Miss  F.  MacNichol,  New  York  City. 

CORN  PUDDING.— Six  ears  corn,  2  eggs,  1  pint  milk,  ^  cup  butter,  1 
tablespoonful  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  %  cup  flour.  Grate  the  corn,  beat  the  eggs 
very  light,  then  add  to  the  corn.  Mix  all  the  other  ingredients  with  the  com 
and  the  eggs.    Bake  for  %  of  an  hour  in  a  well-buttered  pan. — Rae  Ross. 

CRANBERRY  PUFFS.— Two  cups  sifted  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1-3  teaspoon  salt,  rub  M  cup  butter  into  flour,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  cup 
rich  milk,  and  stir  flour  with  1  pint  cooked  cranberries  well  sweetened.  Fill 
buttered  cups  about  half  full  of  mixture;  and  steam  an  hour.  Sauce:  Boil  to- 
gether 2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  water  and  1  cup  cranberry  juice  for  5  minutes; 
add  teaspoon  butter  and  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Serve  hot. — A  Dunbar,  Mon- 
mouth, 111. 

CREAM  SAUCE. — On©  egg,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter 
size  of  walnut,  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  boiling  water,  beat  egg  light  and  add  sugar 
and  flour,  pour  boiling  water  over  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  when  cool  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla. — Mrs.  J.  Pearsall,  Westfield,  N.  J. 


To  cut  fresh  bread  dip  your  knife  in  boiling  water  and  you  will  be 
able  to  cut  the  thinnest  slice  of  bread  from  a  fresh  loaf 

37 


CHEESE  PUDDING One  cup  of  finely  chopped  cheese,  1  cup  of  bread- 
crumbs, 1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  butter,  V^  teaspoon  salt  and  dry  mus 
tard,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Arrange  the  cheese  and  bread  crumbs  in  a  bak- 
ing dish  in  alternate  layers.  Beat  the  egg  and  add  to  the  milk  with  the  sea- 
soning and  pour  over  the  top;  add  some  little  bits  of  butter  and  let  the  dish 
stand  for  15  minutes  to  soften  the  bread.  Bake  in  a  good  oven  until  the  top 
Is  firm  like  custard.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  James  Laughlin,  Roselle,  N.  J. 

COBN  STARCH  BLANC  MANGE.— One  pint  milk,  2  tablespoons  corn- 
starch, 2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  pinches  salt,  2  teaspoons  cocoa  or  2  tablespoons 
strawberries.  Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  sugar  and  salt,  the 
fresh  mashed  strawberries  or  the  cocoa,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.  Mix 
the  cornstarch  with  cold  milk,  then  stir  it  into  the  hot  milk,  boil  and  stir  five 
or  ten  minutes,  until  it  is  smooth  and  thick.  Pour  the  mixture  into  cold,  wet 
cups  or  mouls.  Serve  cold  with  cream  or  milk  and  sugar. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Martin, 
Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

CREA3I  TAPIOCA  PIDDING.— Soak  3  tablespoons  pearl  tapioca  over  night 
in  cold  water,  1  quart  milk,  heat  and  add  tapioca  and  boil  y^.  hour,  beat  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs  with  1  cup  of  sugar,  add  3  tablespoons  prepared  cocoanut  and 
salt,  stir  in  milk  and  keep  stirring  until  it  boils  again,  then  pour  in  pudding 
dish.  Make  meringue  of  whites  of  eggs,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  sprinkle  with 
cocoanut  and  set  in  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  H.  Abrams,  Westfield. 

CBEAMT  SAUCE. — Half  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  M,  cup  cream  or  milk, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  lemon  extract.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  the 
sugar,  gradually  beating  all  the  while.  When  light  and  creamy  add  flavoring 
and  then  the  cream,  a  little  at  a  time.  When  all  is  beaten  smooth,  place  bowl 
in  a  basin  of  hot  water  and  stir  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  and  creamy  no 
longer.  It  will  take  only  a  few  minutes.  This  is  a  delicious  sauce,  and  if 
well  beaten  and  not  kept  in  the  hot  water  long  enough  to  melt  the  sugar  it 
will  be  white  and  foamy  all  through. — Lizzie  Taylor,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

CHERRY  PUDDING. — One  tablespoon  butter,  two  cups  sour  milk,  one 
egg,  %  cup  sugar,  1  quart  cherries,  %  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  or  enough 
to  make  batter  as  thick  as  for  cake.  Stone  the  cherries.  Beat  the  egg  light, 
the  butter  melted.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  warm  Avater,  add  to  the  sour 
milk  and  add  this  to  the  batter  alternately  with  the  flour.  Beat  until  light 
and  smooth,  add  the  cherries,  and  bake  for  %  of  an  hour. — Miss  N.  Crowell, 
Newark,  N.  J. 

CHABLOTTE  EUSSE Put  into  a  pint  of  cream  or  good  milk  the  yolks  of 

6  eggs,  %  lb.  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  on  a  slow  fire  and  stir  constant- 
ly until  quite  thick,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Set  it  to  cool.  Dissolve  ^4  box 
gelatine  using  as  little  water  as  you  can.  Take  a  pint  of  cream,  whip  it,  mix 
the  gelatine  and  custard  slowly  together,  and  stir  in  the  whipped  cream.  Ar- 
range thin  lady  fingers  in  a  deep  bowl,  pour  in  the  mixture.  Set  in  cool  place. 
— M.  McCague,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.— Scald  together  1  quart  of  milk  and  3  ounces  of 

grated  chocolate,  set  It  aside  to  cool,  then  add  nearly  a  cup  of  sugar  and  yolks 
of  5  eggs.  Bake  and  when  done  spread  whites,  beaten  stiff  and  mixed  with 
sugar,  on  top  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  Cowenhoven,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING.— One  cup  grated  cocoanut,  2  cups  bread  crumbs. 
Beat  together  3  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar  until  light.  Scald  1  quart  of  milk  and 
add  the  eggs  and  sugar,  then  the  cocoanut  and  crumbs.  Add  salt  and  vanilla. 
Bake  slowly  for  about  fifty  minutes. — Miss  C.  Tinker,  Linden,  N.  J. 


There   is  nothing  that  will  spoil  the  flavor  of  food  more  than 
unclean  cooking  utensils. 

38 


COTTAGE  PUDDING.— One  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1 
cup  milk,  a  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder  sifted  in  3  cups  flour  or  more  if 
needed.    Serve  with  sauce. — Mary  Markley.  Utica.  N.  Y. 

CUSTARD. — Scald  1  pint  of  milk,  sweeten  with  3  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
pour  gradually  over  2  beaten  eggs.  2  cups  bread  crumbs,  bake  In  moderate 
oven  covered  for  a  time.    Eat  cold. — Mrs.  C.  Kringle,  Adell,  Wis. 

DATE  WHIP. — Remove  the  seeds  from  H  pound  dates,  stew  them  and 
chop  fine  with  the  meats  of  %  dozen  English  walnuts.  Beat  the  whites  of  2 
eggs  until  they  will  stand  and  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar;  then  stir  the  nuts  and 
dates  into  this.  Serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream. — 
L.  Anderson,  Cranford,  N.  J. 

DATE  PUDDING. — One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  chopped  suet,  1  cup  milk  3^/4 
cups  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Vz  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
1  pint  of  dates.  Mix  together  the  molasses,  suet,  spice  and  dates  cut  fine,  dis- 
solve soda  with  1  tablespoon  of  hot  water  and  mix  with  the  milk;  then  add 
this  to  the  other  ingredients.  Beat  the  eg2;s  until  light  and  stir  into  the  mix- 
ture, add  flour  and  beat  thoroughly.  Steam  five  hours  in  2  small  or  1  large 
bread  mold.    To  be  served  with  sauce. — Mrs.  D.  Whitney,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

DELICATE  ORANGE  PUDDIXG^-Put  2  cups  of  water  and  1  cup  of  sugar 
over  the  fire.  When  boiling  thicken  with  2  tablespoons  cornstarch.  When  clear 
and  transparent  add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  over  3 
good  sized  oranges  that  have  been  peeled,  seeded  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Pineapples  may  be   used  instead  of  oranges. — Miss  Aquinas  Heller,   Jackson, 

DELICIOUS  PEACH  PUDDING.— One  cup  milk,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  small 
cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
little  salt,  and  the  juice  from  1  can  of  peaches.  Beat  well  and  pour  over  1  can 
of  sliced  peaches.  Bake  half  an  hour  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. — M.  Copeland, 
Glen  Falls.  N.  Y. 

ENGLISH  PLU2I  PUDDING.— Sift  1  pound  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  and  salt,  mix  thoroughly  and  add  cold  water  or  milk  to  make  thick 
enough  to  spoon  into  the  mold.  Leave  enough  room  for  it  to  raise.  Put  in  boil- 
ing water,  and  do  not  let  it  stop  boiling.  Time,  4  to  6  hours.  Fruit:  One  pound 
currants,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  suet,  1  pound  sugar,  %  pound  candied  lemon 
peel,  1  nutmeg  and  little  cinnamon. — Mrs.  W.  Fisher,  Omaha,  Neb. 

EGG  SAUCE. — One  egg  beaten  very  light,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  cup 
sugar,  flavoring,  beat  egg,  add  sugar,  and  stir  hard,  then  butter  and  flavoring 
desired  (lemon  is  the  best)  and  serve  with  any  hot  pudding. — Mrs.  E.  B.  Reeve, 
Westfield,  N.  J. 

FIG  PUDDING. — Cut  fine  a  pound  of  figs  with  V^  pound  of  suet,  and  add  to 
^  of  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs  %  of  a  pound  of  flour,  and  a  tablespoon  of  brown 
sugar.  Mix  well  together  and  add  a  wineglassful  of  sherry.  Boil  in  a  cloth, 
or  steam  for  2  hours  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. — Miss  M.  Noble,  Newark,  N.  J. 

FROZEN  PUDDING. — Make  a  custard  of  1  quart  cream,  1  pint  milk,  2  cups 
sugar,  2  eggs,  %  cup  flour;  cook  in  double  boiler,  then  add  2  tablespoons  gela- 
tine dissolved  in  cold  water.  Freeze  10  minutes,  then  add  Vi  of  a  pound  of 
almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  fine;  ^/4  pound  candied  cherries;  finish  freezing. 
—Mary  T.  Hill,  Bellevue,  Pa. 


Parsley   roots   may  be  lifted  and  set  in  a  frame  to  serve  as  a 
garnish  in  winter  time. 

39 


FEENCH  CUSTAED.— One  quart  milk,  8  eggs,  6  tablespoons  sugar.  Put  the 
milk  in  boiler;  beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together  till  light;  then  stir 
them  into  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  over  the  fire  till  it  begins  to  thicken;  take  it 
from  the  fire,  add  a  little  vanilla,  stand  aside  in  a  cool  place.  Pour  into  a  glass 
dish;  beat  the  whites  until  frothy;  add  gradually  about  2  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
heap  them  on  a  dinner  plate  in  a  hot  oven  till  slightly  brown.  As  soon  as  they 
are  brown  loosen  from  the  plate,  slide  off  gently  on  the  top  of  the  custard.  Serve 
ice  cold,  with  sponge  cake.  This  will  serve  12  persons. — Martha  Martin,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 

FEUIT  PUDDING.— To  1  quart  milk,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  beaten  well,   4   large   tablespoons   of  sugar.     When   this  is  heated  add 

2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch.    Let  stand  until  cold.    Take  a  bowl  and  cut  up  as 
many  oranges,   bananas,   grapes,   peaches   and   pineapple  as   desired   in  small 
pieces.    Pour  pudding  over  and  garnish  with  cherries. — B.  Newell,  Ada,  Okla. 
Mich. 

GEAHAM  PUDDING.— One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  raisins,  V-k 
cups  Graham  flour,  2  small  teaspoons  soda,  a  little  salt.  Steam  2  hours.  Sauce 
for  same:  One  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg;  beat  these  to  a  cream,  then 
add  1  egg  and  Vz  teaspoon  vanilla.  1  cup  boiling  water. — L.  M.  McD. 

HAEEOWGATE  PUDDING.— Three-quarters  pound  suet,  %  pound  flour, 
y^  pint  of  milk,  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Boil  4  hours.  A  simple  but  very  good, 
every  day,  pudding. — Murray  McCullough,  London,  Eng. 

ISLE  DE  LUZON  DESSEET.— Six  eggs,  1  quart  milk,  1  tablespoon  vanilla, 
l^k  cups  sugar,  12  lady  fingers.  Boil  the  milk,  whip  the  whites  of  6  eggs  stiff, 
add  to  the  boiling  milk  on  the  surface,  boil  till  it  becomes  rigid,  then  take  off 
the  whites  of  eggs  and  place  on  dish.  Now  whip  yolks  of  6  eggs  with  1  cup  of 
sugar  and  tablespoon  of  vanilla,  then  stir  into  milk,  but  not  to  boil,  as  it  will 
curdle.  Split  the  lady  fingers  and  place  in  upright  position  around  edge  of  glass 
dish.  Place  yolks  in  center  and  the  whites  on  the  surface. — Mrs.  I.  D^an,  Phil- 
adelphia, Pa. 

JOHN'S  DELIGHT  PUDDING.— Two  cups  bread  crumbs,  1/2  cup  chopped 
suet,  Vt.  cup  molasses,  1  cup  raisins,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  14  teaspoon  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  Vz  teaspoon  cloves,  1  of  cinnamon.  Steam  2  hours  and  serve  with 
sauce. — Miss  Birdsall,  Westfield.  N.  J. 

KISS  PUDDING.— One  pint  milk,  into  which  when  hot  stir  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  and  3  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Then  pour  into  a  baking  dish  and  spread  on 
it  the  whites  of  the  3  eggs,  mixed  with  3  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar.  Then 
put  in  oven  and  brown  lightly. — Mrs.  S.  Burhans,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

LEMON  SAUCE  FOE  PUDDING Two  cups  hot  water,  1  cup  sugar,  3  tea- 
spoons cornstarch,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Boil 
water  and  sugar  5  minutes;  add  cornstarch,  cook  8  or  10  minutes;  add  the 
lemon  rind,  juice  and  butter;  stir  until  all  the  butter  is  melted  and  serve  at 
once.  If  the  water  boils  away  and  the  sauce  becomes  too  thick,  add  more 
water. — Mrs.  S.  Donaldson,  Argyle,  N.  Y. 

MY  FAVOEITE  PUDDING.— One  pint  of  water,  five  tablespoons  of  tapioca, 

3  of  sugar,  salt  and  nutmeg,  apples  peeled,  cut  in  half  and  cored,  to  fill  the 
dish.  Bake  1  hour,  stirring  occasionally  until  the  tapioca  ceases  to  settle. — I. 
A.  Miller,  Westfield,  N.  J. 


Beets  and  turnips  are  appetizers. 


40 


ORANGE  PUDDING.— One  quart  hot  milk,  %  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  rind 
of  1  orange,  juice  and  pulp  of  2  oranges,  3  eggs,  loaf  stale  baker's  bread.  Grate 
or  crumble  soft  part  of  bread  as  fine  as  possible,  pour  over  it  the  milk,  add 
light.    Pour  into  buttered  dish  and  bake. — J.  Nickerson,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. — One  quart  milk,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  4  of  sugar, 
2  eggs,  beat  eggs  well  and  add  them  with  sugar  and  the  dissolved  cornstarch. 
Let  milk  come  to  boiling  point,  add  the  mixture,  stir  until  it  has  boiled,  then 
set  away  to  cool.  When  cold  take  4  large  oranges;  peel,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
place  in  dish,  sprinkle  thickly  with  powdered  sugar.  Take  %  pound  of  lady 
fingers;  split  in  halves  and  break  each  one  in  half.  Take  a  large  pudding  dish, 
put  in  a  layer  of  custard,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  oranges;  through  this  place 
pieces  of  lady  fingers,  letting  them  stand  upright  in  the  custard  and  protrude 
through  the  oranges.  Repeat  until  dish  is  full,  then  cover  with  the  whites  of 
2  eggs,  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  powdered  sugar.  Set  in  oven  3  minutes 
to  brown.    Serve  cold. — Mrs.  John  LMllon,  Elizabeth,  N.  J. 

PEACH  SNOW  DRIFT.— Either  fresh  or  canned  peaches  may  be  used,  1 
pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  If  canned 
peaches  are  used,  drain  off  all  liquid.  Put  a  layer  of  peaches,  cut  in  halves,  in 
bottom  of  dish,  then  a  layer  of  cream,  and  so  on.  Cover  top  with  meringue  if 
you  want  it  especially  nice. — Mrs.  Webb,  Westfield.  N.  J, 

PEACH  TAPIOCA. — Soak  1  cup  tapioca  over  night;  in  the  morning  cook  in 
a  double  boiler  in  1  quart  of  water  until  perfectly  transparent.    When  done  add 

1  cup  of  sugar  and  Vk  dozen  fine,  ripe  peaches,  sliced  thin.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  Montgomery,  Allegheny,  Pa. 

QUEEN  PUDDING.— One  pint  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  milk,  1  cup  sugar, 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Bake  until  solid  like  custard,  when  cool  spread  a  layer  of  tart  jelly  over  it. 
Then  beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  add  1  cup  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  spread  over 
pudding  and  brown  quickly. — M.  Reycraft,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

RAISIN  PUFFS. — Two  tablespoons  sugar.  1  cup  sweet  milk,  ^^  cup  butter, 

2  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  chopped  and  floured; 
2  cups  flour.  Put  in  cups  and  steam  %  hour.  Sauce  for  puffs:  One  egg,  1  cup 
sugar,  1-3  cup  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour;  flavor  with  lemon.  Beat  to  a  cream, 
and  pour  over  all  1  cup  boiling  water  and  boil. — Mrs.  Williamson,  Keokuk,  I. 

RICE  PUDDING. — One  quart  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  rice, 
1  cup  raisins.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  a  delicate  flavoring  of  cinnamon  or 
nutmeg.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  bake  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half, 
stirring  frequently.  Do  not  let  the  pudding  brown  until  it  has  thickened  suf- 
ficiently.— Mrs.  Edna  Geer,  Pinckney,  Mich. 

SAGO  CREAM. — Wash  three  tablespoons  sago,  beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
mix  them  and  the  sago  with  1  quart  of  milk,  cook  slowly  about  20  minutes; 
sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste;  when  cold,  add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth;  serve  in  glass  dish  or  custard  cups. — Mrs.  W.  Ten  Eyck,  Bloomsburg,  Pa. 

SAUCE. — One  and  a  half  tablespoon  brown  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  brown 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla.  Rub  all  together  and  add  water  (boiling) 
until  you  have  a  nice  clear  sauce. — Mrs.  Arntzen,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SOFT  CUSTARD.— Heat  1  cup  milk,  add  nutmeg  or  any  spice.  Beat  1  egg 
slightly,  add  2  tablespoons  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  pour  the  hot  milk  into  the 
mixture,  stirring  well.  Put  into  double  boiler  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Should 
it  curdle  set  pan  in  cold  water  and  beat  until  smooth.  Strain  into  dish  to  cool, 
after  which  add  liquid  flavoring.  This  is  nice  on  boiled  rice  as  well  as  other 
puddings. — Mrs.  Smith,  Warwick,  N.  Y. 


Lettuce  and  cucumbers  have  a  cooling  effect  upon  the  system. 


41 


SIMPLE  APPLE  PUDDOG Pare  and  chop  3  or  4  apples  or  slice  them 

thin.  Lay  in  the  bottom  of  the  pudding  dish  a  layer  of  sliced  apples,  then  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs,  with  a  little  brown  sugar  and  grated  cinnamon  sprin- 
kled between  each  layer.  Let  the  crumbs  make  the  top  layer  and  put  several 
generous  lumps  of  butter  on  top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown  and 
serve  with  thick  or  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  James  Freeman.  Westfield,  N,  J. 

SIfOW  PUDDING.— Dissolve  Vz  box  gelatine  in  1  pint  cold  water.  When 
soft  add  1  pint  boiling  water,  the  grated  rind  and  piece  of  2  lemons,  2%  cups 
sugar.  Let  stand  until  cold  and  it  begins  to  stiffen.  Then  beat  in  the  whites 
of  5  eggs  well  beaten.  Pour  into  a  mould  and  set  on  ice.  Serve  with  custard 
sauce  as  follows:  One  quart  milk,  yolks  5  eggs,  2  extra  eggs  added,  ^  cup 
sugar,  flavoring. — Miss  Russell,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

STEAMED  BERRY  PUDDING.— One-half  cup  sugar.  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  IV^  cups  of  berries  or 
more  if  preferred.  Mix  the  same  as  cake;  to  be  served  with  soft  sauce. — F.  F. 
Cave,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PEACH  DUMPLINGS. — One  pint  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  1  of  baking  powder;  sweet  milk  enough  to  mix  soft  dough;  roll  out.  Place 
in  greased  pan;  pour  over  with  water;  keep  covered  15  minutes,  then  uncover 
and  brown,  serve  with  hard  sauce.  Place  peaches  cut  in  quarters. — Miss  Edith 
Richards,  Oakland,  Cal. 

STEAMED  CRANBERRY  ROLL.— Make  a  bread  dough  with  1  cup  of  cool, 

scalded  milk,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  %  teaspoon  salt.  1  tablespoon  butter  and  % 
yeast  cake  (compressed)  dissolved  in  i/4  cup  water  and  flour  to  make  it  stiff. 
Knead,  raise  and  when  light  roll  i^  inch  thick,  and  spread  with  stewed  cran- 
berries. Roll  up,  flour  the  ends  well,  and  lay  in  a  cloth  or  pudding  bag  which 
has  been  wrun?  out  of  hot  water  and  well  floured.  Leave  plenty  of  room  for 
the  pudding  to  swell.  Tie  tightly  at  the  end,  plunge  into  boiling  water  and  let 
boil  2  hours.  Keep  well  covered  with  water.  Serve  with  any  unflavored  sweet 
sauce. — Mrs.  Ritchings,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,   Vz   cup  sugar, 

1  egg,  2  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  V^  cup  shredded  cocoanut.  Cook  pota- 
toes in  their  jackets  till  very  poft  and  mash  while  hot.  Mix  potatoes,  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  e'^;?,  cocoanut  and  lastly  the  milk.  Beat  all 
together  thoroughly;  pour  into  a  deep  granite  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  top  with 
sugar  and  bake  in  hot  oven  30  minutes. — Mrs.  Turnbull,  Philadelphia. 

SUET  PUDDING.— Two  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  Vz  cup  molasses,  %  cup  suet 
chopped  fine,  salt  to  suit.  Two  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  in  3  scant  cups 
of  flour.  Spice  with  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Chop  1  cup  of 
raisins  and  V^  cup  of  citron.  Steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  Spark- 
man,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

SUET  PUDDING  (DELICIOUS),— One-half  pound  raisins,  1/2  pound  cur- 
rants, ^  pound  chopped  suet.  1  quart  water,  flour  (prepared)  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter,  1  heaping  teaspoon  cloves.  Put  in  steamer  and  steam  2  hours. 
Serve  with  soft  sauce. — Mrs.  Hendren,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y, 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING.— One  scant  cup  tapioca  soaked  in  cold  water  over 
night.  Heat  and  add  1  quart  boiling  milk  and  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  1  cup 
sugar.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  stiff  froth,  add  3  tablespoons  sugar;  spread  on 
top  of  pudding  and  brown.    Any  flavoring. — Mrs.  E.  Webster,  Mansfield,  Pa. 


Milk  dishes  are  the  most  valuable  bone-forming  foods 

42 


WHITE  PUDDENG.^ — One  pint  boiling  water,  1  cup  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon, 
4  tablespoons  cornstarch;  boil,  take  off  stove,  stir  in  the  whites  of  5  eggs, 
beaten.  Put  in  a  mould  to  cool.  Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks,  1  quart  milk, 
sugar  and  lemon  juice. — Mrs.  Anderson,  Pawnee,  Neb. 

COOKIES 

ALMOND  MACAROONS. — Blanch  ^i  pound  sweet  almonds,  when  dry  pound 
to  a  smooth  paste,  adding  now  and  then  a  few  drops  of  water  to  keep  the  nuts 
from  getting  oily.  Add  %  pound  powdered  sugar  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Beat  all  together  until  smooth.  Put  buttered  paper  in  a  dish  and 
drop  bits  of  mixture  2  inches  apart,  put  bits  of  almond  on  top  of  each.  Bake  in 
slow  oven  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  Gasz,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES.— One  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs.  1  cup  cocoa- 
nut,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  enough  flour  to  roll  out  smoothly.  Bake  well, 
but  not  brown. — L.  M.  Howe,  Brooklyn,  N,  Y. 

GINGER  SNAPS. — One  cup  molasses,  1  egg,  %  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter, 
2  teaspoons  ginger,  1  of  soda,  flour  to  thicken.  Roll  thin.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  Zack  Smith,  Bedminster,  N.  J. 

HICKORY  NUT  MACAROONS.^ — One  pound  powdered  sugar,  1  pound 
chopped  hickory  nuts,  the  whites  of  5  unbeaten  eggs,  i/^  cup  of  flour,  2  small 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Drop  on  buttered  paper  and  dry  in  the  oven. 
These  are  delicious. — L.  E.  Allen,  Brooklyn.  N.  Y. 

HERMITS.— Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1%  cups  molasses,  IVz  cups  raisins, 
seeded  and  chopped  fine,  %  cup  coffee,  1  cup  butter,  4  cups  flour,  3  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  1  of  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  cloves.  Do  not  roll.  Drop  with  spoon. 
— Mrs.  McDougall,  Argyle,  N.  Y. 

JUMBLES.— One  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  flour,  3  eggs.  Do 
not  separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Roll  out  in  pul- 
verized sugar  mixed  with  flour.    Form  in  rings  in  the  pan. — Miss  Shriner. 

VANILLA  JUMBLES. — One  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  2  teaspoons 
vanilla,  flour  enough  to  roll  out. — Mrs.  L.  Williams,  Detroit,  Mich. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES.— One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1 
egg.  1  teaspoon  soda.  1  teaspoon  ginger,  7  cups  flour,  ginger  and  salt. — M.  B. 
Williams,  Meadville,  Pa. 

MARGUERITES.— Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  and  add  1  teaspoon  flour,  1  cup 
chopped  walnuts  and  flavor;  get  1  pound  of  butter  thins  and  spread  with  the 
above  quite  thickly.    Put  in  oven  and  bake  till  brown. — Miss  Welch,  Ada,  Ohio. 

NUT  COOKIES.— Eight  tablespoons  sugar,  6  of  melted  butter,  4  of  sweet 
milk,  2  eggs,  prepared  flour  to  thicken,  so  as  to  roll  out  easily,  add  1  cup  of 
nuts,  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  Petherbridge,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

NUT  CRISPS. — One  cup  sugar.  ^^  teaspoon  salt,  2  of  baking  powder,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2%  cups  Quaker  oats.    Mix  sugar,  salt 


Onions,  garlic,  chives,  shallots  etc.  promote  digestion. 

43 


and  baking  powder  together.  Soften  butter  and  stir  in.  Add  vanilla  and  then 
stir  in  oats,  a  little  at  a  time  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Drop  on  buttered  tins,  a 
little  at  a  time  with  plenty  of  space  between,  as  the  mixture  spreads  in  baking. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs,  W.  S.  Webb,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES^— Two  cups  flour,  2  cups  Quaker  oats,  2  eggs,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  cup  shortening,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  of  cinnamon,  1  of  soda,  1  cup  raisins 
or  currants.  Cream  sugar  and  shortening,  add  salt  and  eggs.  Mix  flour  and 
oatmeal  and  add  with  cinnamon,  then  soda  and  water.  Drop  on  pan  with 
dessert  spoon  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  E.  B.  Reeve,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

OATMEAL  CKACKEES.— One-half  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  butter,  2  tablespoons 
sweet  milk,  1  egg,  mix  3  cups  rolled  oats,  2  cups  flour  and  1  teaspoon  soda.  Roll 
thin  &s  possible  and  cut  into  squares  with  a  sharp  knife.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
to  a  light  brown. — Miss  Lulu  Dickerson,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PEANUT  COOKIES.— Chop  1  pint  peanuts  fine;  rub  to  a  cream  2  table- 
spoons butter,  1  cup  sugar;  add  2  large  spoonfuls  milk,  %  teaspoon  salt;  the 
peanuts  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out,  cut  in  shapes,  bake  in  rather 
slow  oven. — Mrs.  L.  Schofield,  Richmond,  Pa. 

RAISIN  PUFFS.— One-half  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  2  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  flour,  1  cup  raisins,  chopped  fine.  Steam  in 
small  moulds  %  hour.  To  be  eaten  hot,  with  sauce  or  whipped  cream. — A. 
McGeoch,  W.  Hebron,  N.  Y. 

SCOTCH  CAKE. — One  pound  butter,  12  ounces  sugar,  4  eggs,  2  pounds 
flour.  Mix  sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  eggs,  and  beat  well.  Add  flour 
gradually  until  used  up.  Roll  out  i^  inch  thick.  Bake  in  small  cakes,  placing 
caraway  candies  on  top. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Burhans,  Westfield,  S.  J. 

SCHNECK-A-DOODLES.- One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i^  cup  milk,  21/2 
cups  flour;  4  eggs,  %  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Mix,  drop  from 
a  teaspoon  upon  a  well  buttered  tin  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar  on 
the  top. — Miss  Williams,  Salem,  N.  Y, 

TRILBT  COOKIES.— Use  vanilla  wafers.  Filling:  One  cup  sugar,  i^  cup 
water,  1  pound  chopped  dates. — Miss  N.  K.  Carpenter,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 

TANITIES. — Beat  1  egg  very  light,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  flour  to  make 
stiff.  Roll  as  thin  as  paper,  cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  While  hot 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  A.  Coates,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

CAKES,  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 

It  is  wise  to  buy  the  special  flour  known  as  pastry  flour  for  making  cakes 
and  pies.  The  flour  used  for  bread  is  more  nutritious  but  will  not  give  a  light 
flaky  pie  crust  as  will  the  paBtry  flour.  This  flour  should  be  sifted  more  care- 
fully than  bread  flour  as  it  is  so  fine  it  will  pack. 

To  mix  cakes  containing  butter: 

Cream  the  butter,  beating  until  light  and  creamy.  Gradually  add  the 
sugar,  beating  until  light.  Add  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten,  then  the  flavoring. 
Beat  in  alternately  the  liquid  and  flour,  the  latter  mixed  with  salt  and  baking 
powder.    Lastly  add  the  beaten  whites  and  fruits  if  used. 


White  onions  should  be  eaten  as  a  cure  for  insomnia. 


44 


To  mix  cakes  containing  no  butter: 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  very  light  and  thick;  add  the  sugar  gradually, 
beating  until  very  light  and  spongy.  Add  the  flavoring  and  liquid,  if  used. 
Have  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  alternately  with  flour, 
mixed  with  baking  powder,  and  cut  both  in  very  lightly  and  quickly. 

AJfGEL  CAKE. — Whites  of  4  eggs,  pinch  salt  in  the  beaten  whites.  When 
partly  beaten  add  'hi  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  stiff.  Add  2-3  cups  granu- 
lated sugar;  flavor,  fold  in  with  spoon,  fold  in  lightly  %  cup  flour,  which  has 
been  sifted  4  times.  Bake  in  tin  without  greasing.  Invert  tin  on  2  cups  till 
cold. — Mrs.  G.  Bovard.  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

ANGEL  FOOD. — Whites  of  11  eggs,  1^  tumblers  granulated  sugar,  1  tum- 
bler flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Sift  flour  4  times,  then 
add  cream  of  tartar,  sift  again.  Sift  the  sugar,  beat  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  on  a 
large  platter,  add  sugar  lightly  then  flour  very  gently,  then  vanilla.  Do  not 
stop  beating  until  ready  for  pan.  Bake  40  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Try 
with  straw,  if  too  soft,  cook  few  minutes  longer;  turn  pan  upside  down  to  cool; 
when  cool  take  out.  Use  pan  that  has  never  been  greased.  Measures  must  be 
even  full. — H.  V.  Gomez,  Santa  Fe,  New  Mexico. 

APPLE  CREAM  CAKE.— One  and  one-half  cups  sugar.  %  cup  butter,  1  cup 
milk,  vanilla  to  taste.  Mix  sugar  and  butter  well  together,  add  milk  and  extract, 
flour  enough  to  make  an  ordinary  paste,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  last 
add  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Filling:  Whites  of  2  eggs  and  grated  pie  apple,  beat 
well  together  and  add  ^/i  cup  powdered  sugar.  Spread  between  layers  and  on 
top.— Mrs.  J.  Willis,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y, 

A  GOOD  CUP  CAKE. — Three  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  stirred  to  a  cream, 
with  the  sugar;  5  eggs,  beaten  light,  and  add  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  5  cups 
flour,  grated  nutmeg,  and  last  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  teaspoon  hot 
water.  Add  fruit,  if  you  choose.  Bake  in  shallow  pans  or  tins. — Mrs.  Radcliff, 
Philadelphia.  Pa. 

AUNT  KATE'S  RIBBON  CAKE^-One-half  cup  butter,  IVz  cups  sugar,  stir 
to  a  cream,  add  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  prepared  flour  and  when  well  beaten,  divide 
in  2  equal  parts,  then  add  to  1  part  the  whites  of  4  eggs.  Divide  this,  put  1 
part  In  a  tin  and  add  to  the  other  half  2  tablespoons  pink  sugar  for  the  pink 
layer.  To  the  now  remaining  half  of  the  mixture  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and 
divide  in  2  parts,  saving  %  for  the  gold  layer,  and  to  the  other  half  add  2  tea- 
spoons grated  chocolate. — Mrs,  Kate  Longyear,  Shokan,  N.  Y. 

ALMOND  CREAM  CAKE.— Whites  of  10  eggs,  1%  cups  sugar,  1  cup  flour, 
one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Sift  baking  powder  and 
cream  of  tartar  in  flour.  Mix  as  for  angel  food.  Bake  in  2  layers.  Cream  for 
filling:  One-half  pint  cream  or  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon cornstarch,  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar 
together  with  cornstarch.  Boil  the  cream  and  stir  in  these  ingredients,  then 
boil  quite  thick.  Blanch  and  chop  Vz  pound  almonds  and  stir  into  the  cream. 
Put  together  while  the  filling  is  soft. — Mrs.  E.  Mitchell,  Monmouth,  111, 

BLACK  CAKE.^ — One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 
1  cup  coffee,  4  eggs,  4  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  tea- 
spoon cloves,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  cup  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  cur- 
rants.— Mrs.  Ralston,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y, 


Place    a    little    vinegar  in  the  water  in  Mrhich  you  wish  to  boil  a 

cracked  egg.    This  will  keep  the  egg  from 

coming  through  the  shell. 

45 


BLACKBERRY  JAM  CAKE.— One  cup  blackberry  jam,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup 
butter,  1  cup  sour  milk,  3%  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  each  of  cloves,  cinna- 
mon, and  nutmeg,  5  eggs,  leaving  out  2  whites  for  frosting.  Use  V/z  cups  sugar 
to  2  eggs  for  frosting. — Grace  Collins,  Xenia,  0. 

BEAM  BRACK. — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk,  2^/^ 
cups  flour,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  currants,  or  nuts  chopped,  3  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  IVb  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves.  Stir  soda  in  milk  before 
putting  in  the  cake.    This  makes  1  large  loaf. — Mrs.  Keegan,  Westfield. 

BREAD  SPOIVGE  CAKE.— One  cup  lard  and  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups 
bread  sponge,  3  eggs,  %  cup  English  walnuts,  ^  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  chocolate,  1  cup  flour. — Mrs.  Walter 
Smith,  Roseville,  N.  J. 

BREAKFAST  CAKE.— One  pint  flour,  3  tablespoons  butter,  3  of  sugar,  1  egg, 

1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  i^  teaspoon  soda.    To  be  eaten  with  butter. 
— ^Mrs.  Hembury,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

BROWIV  CAKE. — One-half  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  %  cup  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  2  teaspoons  soda  in  1  cup  boiling 
water,  2%  cups  flour,  2  well  beaten  eggs  the  last  thing.  Bake  in  layers  and  put 
together  with  white  icing  very  thick  between  the  layers. — Mrs.  L.  Bates. 

BROWIV  STONE  FRONT  CAKE.— One  cup  brown  sugar,  %  cup  sweet  milk. 
^  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Boil  together 
two-thirds  cup  chocolate,  Vz  cup  sweet  milk,  yolk  of  1  egg.  Pour  in  cake  while 
hot. — Mrs.  D.  B.  Harrison,  New  York  City. 

BUTTERMILK  CAKE^— One  cup  sugar,  i^  cup  butter,  1  cup  buttermilk, 
flour,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  mixed  spices. — A.  Butler. 

CARAMEL  CAKE. — One  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  butter  size  of  egg,  ^^ 
cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  %  cup  cocoa  and 
Vz  cup  of  milk.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  into  cake  last. — Mrs.  Vervoort, 
Westfield,  N.  J. 

CHECKERBOARD  CAKE.— One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter, 
beaten  to  a  cream;  1  cup  milk,  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  IV^ 
cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Take  ^  the  dough  and  add  3  tablespoons 
melted  chocolate;  put  a  row  of  the  dark  around  the  tin,  then  a  row  of  white, 
then  dark,  in  the  center  for  2  tins.  Then  put  white  around  the  outside,  then 
dark,  then  white  for  center  tor  third  tin.  Take  this  for  the  middle  layer.  Use 
chocolate  for  frosting. — Cora  Breason,  Argyle.  N.  Y, 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. — Grate  ''^  cup  Baker's  chocolate  and  mix  with  Vz  cup 
milk,  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  1  cup  sugar,  boil  all  until  well  dissolved,  flavor  with 
vanilla.    Let  this  cool.    To  make  the  cake  part  take  1  cup  sugar,  Yz  cup  butter, 

2  eggs,  Vz  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;   add  this  to  the 
boiled  chocolate  and  bake  in  layers. — Mrs.  Richard  Duychinck,  Somerville,  N.  J. 

CHOCOLATE  E'CLAIR  CAKE.— One  scant  cup  sugar,  1  even  cup  flour, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  tablespoons  cold  water,  3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately,  flavor  with  vanilla.    Moderate  oven. — Mrs.  E.  Handy, 

CHOCOLATE  ICING.— Half  cup  chocolate,  i^  cup  sugar,  moistened  with 
about  ^/4  cup  of  milk  boiled.  When  cake  is  cold,  split  the  loaf  and  spread  cream 
on  lower  section.  Put  top  section  on  and  cover  with  the  chocolate.  This  is  bet- 
ter the  second  day. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Hayes,  Westfield,  N.  J. 


CHOCOLATE  FILLING.— One  cup  milk,  as  much  chocolate  as  wanted,  pow- 
dered sugar  to  thicken;  orange  extract.  Place  on  stove  and  let  boil  up  once, 
beat  and  if  not  thick  enough  add  more  sugar. — Mrs.  Williams,  Detroit. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING.— Melt  2i^  squares  of  chocolate  over  hot  water  and 
add  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of  milk,  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thickened  and  spread  between 
the  layers. — M.  Raymond,  Oakland,  Cal. 

CHOCOLATE  SPONGE  CAKE.— Melt  four  squares  of  sweetened  chocolate 
in  a  pan  standing  over  hot  water,  add  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  a  cup  of  milk 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  is  smooth.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and 
a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  until  very  light;  add  in  successive  order,  the  hot  choc- 
olate mixture,  vanilla  to  flavor,  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  1^/4  cups  of 
flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  a  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  2  layers. 
Put  together  with  boiled  or  a  soft  cream  icing. — A.  S. 

CITEON  POUND  CAKE Three-quarters  pound  butter,  rubbed  to  a  cream 

with  1  pound  of  sugar,  add  first  the  beaten  yolks  of  8  eggs,  then  1  pound  flour, 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  lastly  l^/i  pounds  thinly  sliced  citron,  slightly 
dredged  with  flour.    Bake  lYz  or  2  hours. — Mrs.  Monfort. 

CREAM  CAKE. — One-half  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  beat  to  a  cream,  3  eggs, 
beaten  in  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
layers.  Cream  filling  for  this  cake:  1  pint  milk,  let  this  boil,  stir  in  V2  cup 
of  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  small  piece  butter,  flavor  with  vanilla. — A,  B.  See, 
Cranford,  N.  J. 

CEEAM  FILLING.— Two  eggs,  2  cups  milk,  ^  cup  sugar,  a  little  salt,  1 
tablespoon  cornstarch,  boil  until  quite  stiff.  Spread  between  layers  when  quite 
cool. — Mrs.  Rich,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CREAM  FILLING. — One  cup  milk,  2-3  cup  sugar,  boil  a  few  minutes,  add 
yolks  of  2  eggs  with  a  little  water,  2  teaspoons  cornstarch,  salt  to  taste,  then 
boil  until  cornstarch  is  thoroughly  cooked,  add  whites  of  eggs  and  vanilla. — 
Mrs.  Webb,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CREAM  FOR  FILLING.— One  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  2  of  sugar,  pinch  of 
salt.  Mix  and  make  smooth  with  cold  milk.  Add  1  beaten  egg  and  stir  all  into 
1  cup  scalding  milk.  Boil  until  thick.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  Zack  Smith, 
Bedminster.  N,  J. 

CREAM  PUFFS.— One  cup  of  water.  V2  cup  butter,  boil  together.  Stir  in 
while  boiling  1  cup  of  flour  dry.  Then  take  from  the  fire  and  allow  it  to  cool. 
Add  3  eggs  not  beaten.  Mix  well  and  drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  25  minutes. 
Avoid  opening  the  oven.  Cream:  One  cup  milk,  1  egg,  V2  cup  of  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons flour.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  flour  and  stir  them  in  the 
milk  while  boiling.  Flavor  with  vanilla  when  cold.  Open  and  fill.— E.  Petti- 
grew,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CREAM  PUFFS.— One  cup  hot  water,  V2  cup  butter;  boil  together,  and  while 
boiling  stir  in  1  cup  of  flour  dry.  Take  from  the  stove,  stir  to  a  smooth  paste 
and  after  this  cools  stir  in  3  eggs  well  beaten;  stir  5  minutes.  Drop  in  table- 
spoons on  a  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  25  minutes.    Don't  let  them 


Soda  win  sweeten  milk  slightly  turned. 

47 


touch  each  other  in  the  pan.  Do  not  open  the  oven  door  oftener  than  abso- 
lutely necessary.  For  the  cream:  One  cup  milk,  3  tablespoons  flour,  i^  cup 
sugar  or  2  cups  of  cornstarch,  1  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Dissolve  the  flour  in  a 
little  milk,  put  the  rest  of  the  milk  on  the  stove  and  vrhen  hot  stir  in  sugar  and 
egg,  beaten  together,  and  flour.  Cook  until  thick.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  When 
both  this  and  puffs  are  cool  open  one  side  of  puffs  and  fill  with  cream.  This 
makes  1  dozen. — A.  McGeoch,  Argyle,  N.  Y. 

CRULLERS. — One  cup  of  sugar,  9  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  2  cups  of 
milk,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  lemon  extract.  Use  Hecker's  prepared 
flour  and  make  stiff  enough  so  they  don't  stick  to  hands  and  fingers  when  rolling 
out.  Have  fat  boiling  hot  when  you  drop  them  in.  Then  sugar  them  when  all 
cooked. — Mrs.  J.  G,  Ten  Eyck,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

COFFEE  CAKE. — Three  cups  potato  sponge,  4  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups 
sugar,  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  warm  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  extract,  a  little 
cinnamon  and  salt.  First  stir  sugar  and  eggs  in  milk,  then  add  the  potato 
sponge. — Mrs.  Petherbridge,  Brooklyn.  N.  Y. 

COCOANUT  CAKE.^ — Two  cups  sugar,  1  rather  scant  cup  butter,  3  cups 
flour,  whites  of  8  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Bake  in  3  layers.  Use  the  whites  of  3  eggs  for  the  icing  with  3  tablespoons 
pulverized  sugar  to  each  egg.  The  butter  and  sugar  must  be  beaten  to  a  cream, 
then  add  the  milk  and  stir  in  part  of  the  flour,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  and 
remaining  flour  alternately,  flavor  with  lemon.  The  cocoanut  must  be  sprinkled 
on  when  being  iced.  Sift  the  flour  before  measuring  and  again  with  the  baking 
powder.    It  is  nice  baked  as  loaf  cake.— Mrs.  Lawrence  Clark,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CURRANT  CAKE. — One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup 
currants,  1  even  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  %  even  teaspoon  soda,  %  cup  milk, 
vanilla  or  lemon  for  flavoring. — Miss  J.  A.  Smith,  Lamington,  N.  J, 

DEYIL'S  CAKE. — Two  cups  dark  brown  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sour 
cream,  2  eggs.  Beat  all  together.  Dissolve  1  teaspoon  soda  in  ^  cup  boiling 
water;  put  Vz  cake  chocolate  in  hot  water  and  soda  while  foaming.  Stir  into 
cake  batter  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  vanilla  and  2'^  cups  of  flour. — Mrs.  W.  H. 
Higgins,  North  Branch.  N.  J. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD. — One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sour  milk,  1  level 
teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  3  squares  chocolate.  Mix  cake  as  usual,  beating 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately,  adding  whites  last.  Grate  chocolate  and  put 
in  a  bowl  and  set  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  to  melt.  Then  add  to  cake  mix- 
ture.   Bake  in  3  layers  and  put  together  with  icing. — Mrs.  Dixon,  Dixon,  111. 

DOVER  CAKE. — One  pound  sugar,  %  pound  butter,  5  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  3 
cups  flour,  3  small  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  45  min- 
utes.— Mrs.  Robert  Duychinck,  Lamington.  N.  J, 

DOUGHNUTS. — One  quart  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  two  eggs, 
a  little  salt,  1%  cups  of  sugar,  little  cinnamon,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  little  nut- 
meg; mix  with  milk,  fry  in  boiling  lard. — Mrs.  L.  Smith,  Warwick,  N.  Y. 

DRIED  APPLE  CAKE. — Soak  3  cups  of  apples  over  night  in  cold  water, 
enough  to  swell  them.  In  morning  chop  fine  and  place  on  stove  with  3  cups 
molasses,  stir  until  almost  soft.  Add  a  cup  of  raisins,  stir  a  few  minutes;  when 
cold  add  3  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  l^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda. 
Spice  to  taste.  Bake  2  hours  in  a  steady  oven. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Brown,  New  York 
City. 


Dry  and  pulverize  orange  and  lemon  peels,  place  in  corked  bot- 
tles and  use  when  needed  for  flavoring. 

48 


DUTCH  CAKE. — Three  cups  bread  sponge.  2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter  and 
lard,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  heaping  cup  raisins.  Make  it  as 
stiff  as  you  can  stir  it  comfortably  with  a  spoon.  A  little  nutmeg.  Not  too  hot 
an  oven  and  cook  about  an  hour. — A.  Kilpatrick,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

EGOLESS  CAKE. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  of  cloves,  %  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  flour. — 
Mrs.  A.  Q.  Ten  Eyck,  North  Branch,  N.  J. 

EIGHT  mNUTE  SPONGE  CAKE.— Beat  3  eggs  1  minute,  1^  cups  granu- 
lated sugar  5  minutes,  1  cup  flour  1  minute  with  %  cup  water,  1  cup  flour  with 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  minute.    Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  Collins. 

FIG  CAKE. — One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  level  full;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  whites  of  4 
eggs.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  stir  in  milk  and  vanilla,  then  add  flour 
into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  then  add  beaten  whites.  Beat 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  before  putting  in  the  flour.  Bake  in  3  layers.  Fig-fi]ling: 
One-half  pound  figs,  %  cup  raisins,  juice  of  1  lemon,  %  cup  sugar,  chop  figs  and 
raisins,  then  place  all  figs,  raisins,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  in  a  stew  pan,  cover 
with  water  and  cook  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake. — Mrs.  McMichael, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

FRENCH  CAKE. — One  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1%  cups 
flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  add  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  well. — Mary  Ames,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

FILLING. — Peel  2  large  oranges,  remove  seed,  chop  fine,  add  %  peeled 
lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  well  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  spread  between  layers. — Ella 
Watson,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

FEUIT  CAKE. — Half  cup  sugar,  %  cup  molasses,  Vz  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sour 
milk  or  sweet,  2  eggs,  salt,  2  cups  flour,  i/^  teaspoon  soda,  1  pound  raisins,  ^ 
pound  currants,  %  pound  citron.  1  teaspoon  cloves,  lYz  teaspoons  cinnamon. 
If  you  use  sweet  milk  use  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.— Mrs.  H.  L.  Abrams,  West- 
field,  N.  J. 

FRUIT  CAKE. — One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  1  cup 
milk.  Mix  as  you  would  a  cup  cake  and  add  1  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  cur- 
rants, Vz  pound  citron,  1  heaping  teaspoon  each  of  ground  cloves,  cinnamon,  all- 
spice, 1  teaspoon  soda,  2  of  cream  tartar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange. 
This  makes  2  cakes  and  should  be  baked  in  tube  pans.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  an  hour  and  a  half. — Mrs.  Wm.  Acker,  Liberty  Corner,  N.  J. 

GINGER  CAKE.— One-half  cup  sugar,  %  cup  molasses,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon 
salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  flour  to  thicken. — Miss  McFassel,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

GOLD  CAKE. — One  cup  sugar,  i^  cup  butter,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  whole  egg, 
Vz  cup  milk,  1/4  teaspoon  each  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  1%  cups  flour.  Mix 
butter  and  sugar  together,  add  eggs,  milk,  flavoring,  and  flour  in  the  order 
named.  Bake  in  2  sheets  for  Vz  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Frost  it  with  boiled 
frosting. — Mrs.  E.  Allen.  Allentown,  Pa. 


Making  a  Mustard  Plaster.  If,  in  making  a  mustard  pizister,  the 
mustard  is  mixed  with  molsisses,  it  will  draw  perfectly  and  will 
not  blister. 

49 


GOI.DEN  ORANGE  CAKEr— One-quarter  cup  butter,  Vz  cup  sugar,  ^4  cup 
milk,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  %  cup  flour,  1  level  teaspoon  baking  powder,  orange  ex- 
tract. Cream  the  butter,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  then  the  extract  and  eggs 
(yelks)  beaten  until  light  in  color.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  alter- 
nately the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Bake  in  a  narrow  deep  cake  pan. — Mrs.  S. 
Hopkins,  Oakland,  Cal. 

GREEN  APPLE  CAKE.— Four  eggs,  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour, 
1  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  %  cup  cold  water,  2  cups  green  apples 
chopped  fine.  Stir  %  cup  flour  with  apples,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.— 
Mrs.  J.  L.  Thompson,  Readington,  N.  J. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  CAKE.— One  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
sugar.  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  cornstarch,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  After  mixing 
well  divide  into  2  equal  parts,  into  1  part  put  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and 
the  yellows  into  the  other  part.  Bake  in  layers.— Mrs.  Walter  Smith,  Roseville, 
N.J. 

HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE.— One  quart  flour,  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  1%  cups  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  milk 
to  make  thick  batter,  1  pint  of  washed  and  floured  fruit,  stir  very  gently  after 
adding  fruit,  so  as  not  to  crush.— Mrs.  Purcell,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE.— Two  cups  sugar,  l  cup  butter,  yolks  5  eggs,  whites  of 
3  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  bake  in  layers.  Fill- 
ing for  cake:  Two  cups  sugar,  5  tablespoons  water,  boil  together  5  minutes 
without  stirring;  have  ready  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  in  which  pour  grad- 
ually the  boiling  liquid,  beating  constantly  until  cold  and  stiff.  Flavor. — Mrs. 
L.  Williams,  Detroit,  Mich. 

JELLY  ROLL,— Beat  for  15  minutes  4  eggs  and  1  cup  soft  A  sugar;  then  add 
1  cup  flour  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Spread  in  2  large  shallow  tins.  Bake 
In  quick  oven  5  minutes.  When  done  put  out  in  a  wet  towel.  Spread  bottom 
with  jelly  and  roll. — Mrs.  R.  Grindrod,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

LAYER  MOLASSES  CAKE.— Mix  thoroughly  together  2i^  cups  flour  and 
1  cup  of  molasses,  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  3  tablespoons  brown 
sugar,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Frosting:  One-half  cup  milk,  1  cup 
sugar.    Boil  10  minutes;  spread  when  little  cold,  not  hot. — M.  Conklin, 

LEMON  FILLING. — One  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
boiling  water,  2  teaspoons  cornstarch. — ^Mrs.  W.  Erwin,  Oak  Grove,  Mich. 

LEMON  CAKE. — One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  Yz  cup  butter,  whites  of  3 
eggs,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  prepared.  Jelly  for  cake:  Juice  and  grated 
rind  of  2  lemons,  1  cup  water,  1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  flour,  yolks  of  3  eggs. — 
H.  B.  Lamberson,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKE.— Two  cups  sugar,  2-3  cup  butter,  %  cup  milk, 
whites  of  6  eggs,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Filling  for  the  cake: 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  1-3  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar. 
Mix  all  together  and  cook  till  thick  as  sponge.  Then  use  between  layers  of 
cake. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Martin,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

MALAGA  CAKE. — One  heaping  cup  white  sugar,  lYz  cups  butter,  IVz  cups 
cornstarch,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  1^  cups  flour,  whites  of  5  eggs,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  3  layers.  Filling:  Two  cups 
hickory  nuts,  1  cup  raisins  chopped  fine  together,  1  cup  frosting  sugar,  2  eggs, 
whites  beaten  stiff. — Mrs.  Reynolds,  Baston,  Mass. 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE — Cream  V^  cup  butter,  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  3 
well-beaten  eggs,  beating  them  separately,  1  cup  rich  milk,  mix  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder  with  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  batter.     Bake  in  jelly  tins  or 


Set  a  dish  of  hot  water  in  your  oven  and  your  cakes  will  not  burn. 


50 


layer.  Icing:  Boil  1  cup  sugar  with  4  tablespoons  boiling  water,  placing  a 
pinch  of  cream  tartar,  boiling  all  together  until  it  falls  fronx  the  spoon  in 
threads.  Have  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  pour  the  boiling  icing 
into  it,  beating  constantly  and  until  cold  and  thick.  Have  your  marshmallows 
steamed  over  boiling  water  until  soft.  Place  on  the  layers,  pouring  the  boiled 
icing  over. — Jennie  McArthur.  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. — One  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  water,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  heap- 
ing tablespoon  butter,  1  of  ginger,  1  of  cinnamon;  mix  spices  with  sugar  and 
molasses,  add  water  and  about  3%  cups  flour;  last  of  all,  put  1  teaspoon  soda 
on  top  of  cake  and  stir  through. — Metta  Gould,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 

MOCK  POUND  CAKE.— One-half  cup  sugar,  Yz  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  1  even 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  1-3  spoonful  carbonate  soda,  2-3  cup  milk,  1%  cups 
flour;  flavor  to  suit. — Mrs.  Walter  Ten  Eyck,  Bloomsburg.  Pa. 

MOLASSES  FRUIT  CAKE.— One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  1%  cups  molas- 
ses, y2  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  pound  raisins,  l^  pound  currants,  V4,  pound  citron, 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  1  of  cinnamon,  1  of  cloves,  1  allspice,  3  cups  flour, 
1  cup  sour  milk. — Mrs.  J.  Brittingham,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

MRS.  MENGLE'S  CRUMB  CAKES.— Two  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons  baking 
powder,  Vz  cup  sugar,  %  cup  lard  and  butter,  or  else  all  butter.  Take  1  cup  of 
crumbs  out  for  on  the  top  of  cake,  add  %  cup  milk  and  2  eggs  to  the  rest.  Beat 
up  and  spread  this  on  bottom  of  your  dish  (which  you  have  lined  with  pie 
dough  before)  put  crumbs  on  top  of  cake,  which  is  flavored  with  nutmeg. — 
Anna  Denfield,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

MOTHER'S  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.— One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  3  table- 
spoons butter,  2  eggs  or  white  of  4,  1  cup  sweet  milk.  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Filling:  One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  cup 
milk,  boil  seven  minutes  and  add  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate. — Mrs.  Wm.  Harring- 
ton, Paterson,  N.  J. 

NEW  ENGLAND  THANKSGIVING  CAKE.— One  cup  butter,  creamed.  2  cups 
brown  sugar,  3  eggs,  well  beaten.  Stir  in  Yz  cup  of  molasses,  %  cup  milk,  % 
pound  raisins,  chopped,  Y2  pound  currants,  and  2  tablespoons  syrup  from  any 
fruit  preserves.  Add  to  this  gradually,  4  cups  sifted  flour,  the  last  cup  should 
have  Y2  teaspoon  soda,  and  ^  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  mixed  in. — C.  A.  Bow- 
man, Westfield,  N.  J. 

NUT  FILLING.— Add  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water  to  the  white  of  1  egg; 
thicken  with  fine  sugar;  add  Y2  cup  nut  meats,  which  have  been  chopped  fine. 
Spread  between  layer  cakes. — L.  R.  Harper,  Houston,  Texas. 

ORANGE  FILLING. — One  large  orange,  %  lemon,  %  cup  sugar,  add  water 
to  equal  1-3  pint  if  necessary.  Boil  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  cornstarch. 
—P.  E.  Welch,  Westfield.  N..  J. 

PEACH  SHORT  CAKE.— Make  crust  the  same  as  for  strawberry  short  cake, 
cover  the  buttered  short  cake  with  ripe  peaches,  cut  in  slices,  and  sweetened 
with  powdered  sugar. — Miss  E.  Janis,  New  York. 

PERFECT  COCOANUT  CAKE.— One  cup  cocoanut,  1  cup  butter,  2  cups 
sugar,  3%  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk.  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Flavor 
with  lemon  or  to  suit  taste. — Mrs.  Noyes,  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt. 

POOR  MAN'S  LATER  CAKE.— One  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg, 
beat  well  together,  add  1  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  not  too  stiff.  Bake  in  layers  in  quick  oven.  Use  any  filling.— 
Mrs.  William  B.  Rich,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


Boiled  custard  will  be  much  smoother  if  only  the  yolks  of  the 

eggs  are  used. 

51 


PORK  CAKE. — One  pound  pork  chopped  fine,  boil  20  minutes  in  %  pint 
water,  3  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  2  teaspoons  soda,  2  pounds  raisins, 
1  pound  currants,  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg  to 
suit  the  taste,  flour  enough  to  make  it  stiff. — Mrs.  Rogers,  Ada,  Okla, 

QUAKER  POUND  CAKEr— Half  cup  butter.  I1/2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 
3  eggs,  ^  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. — Anna  Bush,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

RAISIN  FILLING  CAKE.— One-half  cup  butter,  1^  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  V2 
cup  milk,  2y2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Raisin  Filling:  One  cup 
raisins  chopped  fine,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  water,  white  of  1  egg.  Boil  sugar  and 
water  5  minutes,  have  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  stir  in  the  boiling 
water,  stir  in  raisins. — Mrs.  Lamberson,  Brooklyn.  N.  Y. 

SOFT  MOLASSES  CAKE.— Two  cups  flour,  1  cup  molasses,  mix  together, 
add  %  cup  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
water,  salt  and  ginger. — Mrs.  Wright,  Jr.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SPONGE  CAKE. — Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  beat  well  and  add  3  tablespoons  boiling  water. — Mrs.  Filkins,  Mich. 

SELTER  OR  DELICATE  CAKE.— Whites  of  6  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
sugar,  4  cups  sifted  flour,  flavoring  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Stir  sugar 
and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  milk  and  flavoring,  add  part  of  the  flour,  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  then  rest  of  the  flour.  Bake  carefully  in  tins  lined  with 
buttered  white  paper. — Mrs.  Ransbury,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SMALL  ANGEL  FOOD.— One-half  glass  flour,  2-3  glass  sugar,  1^  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar,  sift  all  together  four  times.  Beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  then  add  flour,  sugar  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  small  tin  30  minutes. — 
Mrs.  C.  O.  Dixon,  Dixon,  111. 

SOFT  CHOCOLATE  FELLING.— One  cup  hot  milk,  add  grated  chocolate  to 
suit;  beat  1  egg  and  1  tablespoon  cornstarch  together  and  add  to  mixture, 
sweeten  to  taste. — Mrs.  Fred  Chase,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE.— Make  good  biscuit  crust  in  2  tins  of  same 
shape  and  size.  Mix  berries  with  plenty  of  sugar,  open  the  short  cake,  butter 
well  and  place  berries  in  layers  alternated  with  crust,  have  top  layer  of  berries 
and  over  all  put  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Hembury,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SWISS  CAKE. — Two  cups  butter,  2  of  sugar.  1  of  sour  milk,  4  eggs,  3  cups 
flour,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y^  teaspoon  soda,  same  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  y^  teaspoon  ginger,  mix  and  bake  same  as  1  egg  cake. — ^Mrs, 
Reycraft,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

TILDEN  CAKE.— One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour, 
V2  cup  cornstarch,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  2  teaspoons  lemon  ex- 
tract.— Mrs.  Hembury,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

WALNUT  CAKE.— Whites  of  4  eggs,  2  cups  sugar.  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk, 
3  cups  flour,  1  cup  walnut  meats  chopped  fine,  1  cup  raisins,  4  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  little  salt. — Mrs.  R.  H.  Docking,  Avoca,  Neb. 

WASHINGTON  CAKE.— Two  small  cups  butter,  3  cups  sugar.  5  cups  flour. 
5  eggs,  1  cup  milk  or  water.  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Flavor 
to  taste. — Mrs.  Parkhurst,  Westfield,  N.  J. 


The  waste  in  the  average  home  is  largely  due  to  a  lack  of  thrift- 
iness  in  using  left-overs. 

52 


WALNUT  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.— One  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  1/4  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  pound 
English  walnuts.  Bake  in  2  layers.  Filling:  Reserve  18  nuts  for  top  of  cake, 
chop  the  rest  fine.  Take  2  squares  Baker's  chocolate  and  put  on  back  of  stove 
to  melt.  Cook  1  cup  sugar  with  4  tablespoons  of  hot  water  until  it  strings,  add 
it  to  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  then  add  melted  chocolate  stirring  briskly 
meanwhile.  Use  i/4  of  this  for  icing  the  top  of  cake,  take  the  rest  and  stir  the 
chopped  nuts  into  it.  Spread  between  layers.  Take  the  Vz  walnuts  and  spread 
3  rows  on  top  of  cake. — L.  Chapman,  Oakland.  Cal. 

WEDDING  CAKE.— Six  pounds  of  butter,  5  pounds  sugar,  6  pounds  cur- 
rants, 6  pounds  raisins,  2  pounds  citron,  nearly  7  pounds  flour,  50  eggs,  small 
bottle  of  lemon,  a  gill  of  boiled  apple  juice,  ly^  pints  molasses,  i/i  pound  cloves, 
cinnamon,  mace,  nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste,  2  teaspoons  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water. — Miss  Reycraft,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y, 

WHITE  FKUIT  CAKE.— One  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2%  cups 
flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  7  eggs,  whites  only,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound 
figs,  1  pound  dates,  1  pound  almonds,  Vi  pound  citron,  no  spice.  Blanch  almonds 
and  cut  them  in  halves,  seed  raisins  and  dates  and  cut  them  fine.  Dust  with 
flour  before  adding  to  cake  mixture.  Cut  figs  and  citron  fine. — Mrs.  Wm.  Har- 
rington, Paterson,  N.  J. 

WHJTE  PERFECTION  CAKE.— Two  cups  sugar,  Vz  cup  butter,  beat  to  a 
cream,  add  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  sifted  fiour,  with  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  flavor  to  taste  and  bake  in  layers.  Chocolate 
filling:  Boil  until  thick  1  cup  white  and  1  cup  brown  sugar,  ^■  cup  milk,  small 
lump  butter,  3  tablespoons  Baker's  chocolate  grated,  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs. 
J.  Ransbury,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

ICE  CREAM  AND  SHERBETS 

APRICOT  ICE. — Rub  1  can  apricots  through  a  sieve,  add  1  pint  sugar,  1 
quart  water  and  the  juice  of  3  oranges  and  1  lemon.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water 
together  for  5  minutes,  let  cool  and  then  add  apricots  and  juice  of  fruits. 
Freeze.    Serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream. — ^Mrs.  Walter  Gill,  Westfield. 

BANANA  ICE  CREAM*— Mash  into  a  pulp  8  bananas,  beat  them  well  with 
1  quart  sweet  milk.  Freeze  the  same  as  ordinary  cream. — Mrs.  J.  Gasz,  Brook- 
lyn, N.  Y. 

CARAMUL  ICE  CREAM. — Heat  1  quart  milk  in  oatmeal  boiler;  brown  1  cup 
white  sugar  in  pan  till  very  brown,  being  careful  not  to  burn  it.  When  done 
add  a  little  boiling  water  to  liquify  it,  and  then  turn  into  the  hot  milk.  Beat 
together  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar  and  4  tablespoons  flour;  add  to  the  hot  milk  and 
cook  till  it  is  thick  as  cream;  cool,  add  1  quart  sweet  cream  and  freeze.  This 
makes  3  quarts. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Thompson,  Readington,  N.  J. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM, — One  quart  milk,  1  quart  cream,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup 
cold.  Whip  the  cream  and  beat  into  the  custard  thoroughly;  add  vanilla; 
ground  coffee,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Tie  coffee  loosely  in  bag  of  cheese  cloth,  and 
put  in  the  milk  to  boil  till  the  milk  is  flavored  as  desired;  add  sugar  and  flour. 
Let  boil  for  a  minute  or  two;  add  cream,  but  do  not  let  mixture  boil  after  cream 
is  added.  Strain  through  wire  strainer  to  remove  lumps.  Freeze. — S.  E.  Tay- 
lor, Springfield,  N,  J. 


Even  a  bread  pudding  is  made  more  interesting  by   a   meringue 
on  top  and  raisins  inside. 

53 


CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM.— One  quart  cream,  1  quart  milk,  2  cups  sugar, 
3  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  5  tablespoons  chocolate,  2  tablespoons  vanilla.  Scald 
the  milk,  sugar  and  eggs  together  until  it  thickens;  strain  and  set  aside  until 
freeze.  Equal  parts  of  vanilla  and  lemon  extract  make  an  excellent  flavoring. — 
Mrs.  J.  Carswell,  Argyle,  N.  Y. 

ICE  CREAM.— One  and  one-half  quarts  pure  thick  cream,  I'^A  quarts  milk, 
2%  cups  sugar,  3  teaspoons  flavoring.  Whip  well.  Freeze  half  of  it.  Add  whites 
of  7  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Turn  in  the  other  half  of  cream  mixtures  and  freeze  all 
until  hard.  A  cup  and  one-half  chopped  nuts  added  is  delicious. — Mrs.  A.  Mc- 
Connell,  Wyoming,  la. 

ICE  CREAM — IVO  COOKING. — Three  eggs.  1  can  condensed  milk,  scant  cup 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  flour,  1  quart  milk.  lYz  teaspoons  vanilla.  Mix  flour,  sugar; 
beat  eggs,  condensed  milk  and  sugar  for  full  fifteen  minutes;  add  milk  and 
vanilla.    Freeze.    Makes  2  quarts. — Mrs.  Philo  French,  Oak  Grove,  Mich. 

LEMON  MILK  SHERBET.— Juice  of  3  lemons.  %  pint  granulated  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  lemon  extract,  1  quart  milk.  Mix  all  ingredients,  adding  milk  last. 
Freeze.  If  the  mixture  separates  badly  do  not  be  alarmed,  as  it  always  freezes 
smooth. — Mrs.  E.  Reeve,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

LEMON  SHERBET.— To  1  quart  boiling  milk  add  1  dessert  spoon  of  flour 
mixed  into  paste  with  cold  milk,  and  boil  a  few  minutes.  Mix  juice  of  3  lemons 
with  same  amount  of  sugar  as  juice  and  add  to  the  milk,  which  has  been  thor- 
oughly cooled.  Add  2  teaspoons  lemon  extract,  1  cup  cream  and  white  of  1  egg. 
Beat  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  just  before  freezing.  This  recipe  can  be 
multiplied  as  many  times  as  desired.  Freeze  and  pack  same  as  ice  cream. — 
Mrs.  J,  M.  Martin,  Los  Angeles.  Cal. 

MILK  SHERBET. — One  tablespoon  gelatine,  2  tablespoons  cold  water,  1 
quart  milk,  1  pint  sugar,  juice  of  4  lemons.  Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  water, 
seald  milk,  dissolve  gelatine  in  the  hot  milk.  Add  sugar  to  the  milk,  allow  mix- 
ture to  become  cold,  then  add  juice  of  lemons.  Strain  and  freeze. — Mrs.  L*.  Wil- 
liams, Detroit,  Mich. 

ORANGE  WATER  ICE.— Add  1  tablespoon  gelatine  to  1  gill  of  water,  let  it 
stand  20  minutes,  then  add  1  pint  boiling  water;  stir  until  dissolved  and  add  4 
ounces  powdered  sugar,  juice  of  6  oranges  and  cold  water  enough  to  make  a 
full  quart.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Pour  into  freezer  and  freeze. — 
Mrs.  Paxson,  Seattle,  Wash. 

ORANGE  SHERBET.— Six  oranges,  juice  only;  2  lemons,  juice  only;  1  quart 
water,  1  pint  sugar,  white  of  1  egg.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together  for  10  min- 
utes. When  cool  add  the  juice  and  strain  all  into  the  freezer;  add  the  whites  of 
the  egg,  beaten  slightly,  and  freeze  as  ice  cream.  If  a  pink  sherbet  is  desired 
add  enough  juice  of  canned  cherries  to  color. — G.  A.  James,  Ada,  Okla. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET.— For  a  gallon  freezer  take  1  quart  of  granulated 
sugar  and  1  quart  of  water.  Boil  to  a  thick  syrup  and  pour  over  1  can  of  grated 
or  finely  chopped  pineapple.  Add  juice  and  pulp  of  4  lemons.  Put  into  freezer. 
Add  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Fill  up  with  cold  water,  leaving  room  for 
increase  from  freezing. — N.  Wolff,  Aledo,  111. 

SUN  SHERBET. — Juice  of  4  lemons,  2  cups  sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs.  Stir 
sugar  and  lemon  juice  together,  add  the  well-beaten  whites,  beating  all  of  the 
time.  Add  the  milk,  still  beating  hard,  just  before  pouring  into  the  freezer. — 
Mrs.  John  Dillon,  Elizabeth,  N.  J. 


Cooked  macaroni  left  from  dinner  can  be  cut  into  small  pieces 
and  used  with  celery  salad. 

54 


IVHIPPED  CEEAM  FROZEN.— Set  cream  on  ice  until  very  cold,  flavor  and 
sweeten  1-3  more  sugar  than  usual.    Whip  to  a  foam  and  freeze. — Mrs.  J.  Gasz. 

JELLIES  AND  JAMS 

APPLE  JELLT. — Juicy  tart  apples  are  needed,  wash  them  and  remove  core, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  add  water  to  reach  %  height  of  fruit,  cook  slowly  until  soft, 
and  put  in  cheese  cloth  bag,  and  hang  to  drip  in  a  warm  place.  Measure  juice 
and  allow  1  pound  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice.  Place  juice  over  fire  and  boil 
slowly  20  minutes.  Heat  the  sugar  and  add  to  juice,  boil  3  minutes,  putting  a 
slice  of  lemon  in  each  jar. — Mrs.  Gasz,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

APPLE  AND  CRANBERRY  JELLY.— One  cup  cranberries,  V2  cup  sugar, 
3  medium  sized  apples,  %,  cup  hot  water.  Pick  over  the  cranberries,  slice  the 
apples  and  place  together  with  water  in  a  pan.  Stew  until  soft;  add  sugar 
and  stir  until  dissolved.    Strain  into  cups  or  moulds. — Mrs.  E.  Graham. 

COFFEE  JELLY.— Cover  %  box  gelatine  with  %  cup  cold  water  and  let  it 
stand  for  half  an  hour;  dissolve  in  2  cups  boiling  water,  add  1  cup  sugar,  and 
%  cup  clear,  strong  coffee.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  strain.  Turn 
into  a  mold  previously  wet  with  cold  water,  and  when  hard  serve  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  Cross,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

CURRANT  CONSERTE.— To  make  a  goodly  number  of  glasses  use  5  pounds 
currants,  5  pounds  sugar,  2  pounds  raisins  and  4  oranges.  First  cut  the  oranges 
and  squeeze  their  juice  over  the  sugar.  To  this  add  the  currants  and  raisins, 
and  boil  gently  for  Yz  hour.  Put  the  rind  from  the  oranges  in  cold  water  and 
let  come  to  the  boiling  point.  You  can  then  free  from  the  pithy  white  part;  cut 
into  shreds  with  a  pair  of  scissors  and  add  to  the  above.  Let  all  boil  for  5  or  10 
minutes  longer.    Put  in  jelly  glasses  and  cover. — C.  J.  Sankey,  Rochester,  N.  Y, 

DATE  JAM. — One  pound  dates  seeded,  1  pound  blanched  almonds;  press 
1  almond  in  each  date  in  place  of  seed.  Make  a  syrup  of  iy2  cups  sugar  and  V2 
cup  water.  Drop  the  fruit  into  the  syrup  and  cook  slowly  for  a  half  hour.  An 
Egyptian  dainty. — Mrs.  J.  Anderson,  Cranford.  N.  J. 

EAST  INDIA  PRESERTES.— Seven  pounds  grapes,  pulped,  heat  the  pulp, 
then  press  through  fruit  press,  add  4  pounds  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  4 
oranges,  2  cups  chopped  English  walnuts,  mix  together,  boil  till  thick. — Mrs. 
Taylor,  Westfield.  N.  J. 

GELATINE. — To  a  package  of  gelatine  add  a  pint  of  cold  water;  let  it  stand 
an  hour;  then  add  3  pints  of  boiling  water,  then  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  rind 
of  1  and  the  juice  of  4  oranges;  1%  pounds  of  white  sugar.  Run  into  moulds 
and  stand  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Pratt,  Howell,  Mich. 

GRAPE  BUTTER. — Seven  pounds  grapes,  2%  pounds  apples,  i^  pound  sugar 
to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Pulp  the  grapes,  cook  and  strain  through  a  colander. 
Pare  and  cut  apples,  put  apples  and  grape  skins  into  the  juice;  cook  until  the 
apples  are  soft.  Put  all  through  the  colander  again;  add  sugar  and  cook  slowly 
for  214  hours,  stir  often.  Fill  into  glasses;  cover  with  a  thin  coating  of  melted 
paraffine  wax. — Mrs.  Fred  Anthony,  Lamington,  N.  J. 

LEMON  JELLY. — One  box  gelatine,  soaked  In  cold  water  ^^  hour.  Pour 
1  pint  of  hot  water  on  this  and  IV^  cups  of  sugar,  3  lemons  and  1  orange.  Pour 
in  molds  the  same  size,  and  the  middle  one  color  with  red  sugar;  1  teaspoon 
will  do.  No.  1  layer  put  sliced  bananas.  No.  2  layer  put  peaches.  No.  3  layer 
put  oranges  in  small  bits.    Place  on  ice  to  cool. — Mrs.  E.  Foster,  Hook,  N.  Y. 


Spinach  and  dandelion  are  excellent  for  complaints  of  the  liver. 
Asparagus  purifies  the  blood. 

55 


ORANGE  MARMALADE, — To  5  oranges  (sour  naval  are  best)  use  1  lemon; 
quarter  and  slice  very  thin,  for  3  pints  of  fruit  cut  fine  add  6  pints  cold  water; 
let  it  stand  till  next  day.  Boil  for  2  hours,  then  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  5 
pints  sugar;  cool  till  it  jellies. — Mrs.  Mary  McMillan,  Allegheny,  Pa. 

ORANGE  JELLY. — The  juice  and  rind  of  2  oranges,  %  teaspoon  sugar, 
water  to  dissolve  1%  teaspoons  gelatine.  Let  it  boil  10  minutes.  Spread  be- 
tween layers,  and  if  desired  frosting  may  crown  the  whole.  This  is  a  nice  dish 
for  dessert;  half  the  quantity  is  enough  for  a  small  cake. — Mrs.  Moyes. 

PEAR  CHIPS. — Four  pounds  pears,  4  pounds  sugar,  4  ounces  preserved 
ginger,  3  lemons,  juice  and  rind,  sliced  thin,  i^  pint  water;  cook  all  together 
till  well  done. — M.  Copeland,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PEACH  JELLY, — Take  the  parings,  wash  them  thoroughly,  then  put  in 
kettle  with  water  to  cover  them.  Let  boil  until  soft,  then  strain  and  to  each 
pint  of  juice  take  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  to  about  6  pints  of  juice  take  the 
juice  of  2  lemons. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Reason,  Oak  Grove,  Mich. 

TOMATO  JAM. — Five  pounds  tomatoes,  2^^  pounds  sugar,  rind  and  juice  of 
2  lemons.    Cook  until  thick  as  other  jams. — Mrs.  Vervoort,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

BUTTERS  AND  MARMALADES 

EXCELLENT  TOMATO  BUTTER.— Five  quarts  of  tomatoes,  6  quarts  of 
apples,  stew  separately,  mix  well,  put  in  kettle,  and  add  6  pounds  of  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  ground  cloves,  3  tablespoons  cinnamon.— Mrs.  Howe,  Brooklyn. 

CURRANT  JELLY. — Stem  the  currants,  wash,  place  in  an  agate  vessel  and 
let  them  slowly  come  to  the  boiling  point,  stir  often  until  all  are  well  heated, 
wring  a  strong  piece  of  coarse  cloth  out  of  hot  water,  strain  the  currants 
through  this  pressing  out  all  of  the  juice,  allow  1  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of 
juice,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  pour  into  glasses  and  set  before  a  sunny 
window. — Mrs.  L.  Servin,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

LEMON  BUTTER, — Juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  3  eggs,  2  cups  peel, 
2  cups  sugar,  lump  butter  size  of  walnut;  .boil  in  double  kettle  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Higgins,  North  Branch.  N.  J. 

LEMON  BUTTER, — One  heaping  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
1  lemon,  lump  of  butter  size  of  egg,  1  heaping  teaspoon  cornstarch,  1  cup 
water.  Beat  up  the  egg,  add  to  the  egg,  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  juice  and 
grated  rind.  Add  cornstarch,  then  water.  Cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly.— Mrs.  Fred.  Anthony,  Lamington.  N.  J. 

PEACH  BUTTER, — To  every  pound  of  peaches,  weighed  after  peeling  and 
stoning,  allow  %  pound  of  sugar.  Pare  and  stone  the  peaches,  which  should 
be  very  ripe  and  mellow;  cut  in  pieces  and  put  through  the  press.  Put  over 
the  fire  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  let  the  pulp  heat  slowly  and  cook,  stirring  occa- 
sionally, until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  marmalade.    Add  the  sugar,  stir  until 


Hang  your  brooms  instead  of  standing  them,  and  they  will 
keep  their  shape,  and  consequently  wear  longer.  Also,  to  pre- 
vent the  whisks  cracking  and  breaking  off,  soak  in  a  suds  of  soft 
soap  and  warm  w^ater  several  hours,  and  dry  slowly.  It  will  make 
the  broom  soft  and  pliant. 

56 


it  is  dissolved  and  cook  rapidly  for  15  minutes.  Place  the  kettle  on  the  back  of 
the  stove,  where  the  butter  will  not  become  cooled  until  it  is  quite  solid.  Pack 
in  jars  or  tumblers  while  hot. — Mrs.  Robert  Duyckinck,  Lamington,  N.  J. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  MARMALADE.— The  skin  of  1  grape  fruit,  1  whole  lemon 
cut  in  shreds,  cover  with  2  cups  cold  water,  soak  for  36  hours  or  more,  then 
cook  slowly  for  1  hour.  Add  2  cups  sugar,  cook  another  hour. — Mrs.  Chas. 
Hurry,  Howell,  Mich. 

QUINCE  CHEESE. — Boil  quinces  until  soft,  then  scrape  off  peel  with  silver 
spoon,  and  mash  fruit  to  a  pulp.  To  every  pound  fruit  add  %  pound  sugar.  Cook 
until  stiff.  Put  into  moulds.  "Will  keep  all  winter. — Mrs.  A.  Q.  Ten  Eyck, 
North  Branch,  N.  J. 

QUINCE  HONEY. — To  4  grated  quinces  add  2  quarts  of  water  and  4  pounds 
of  sugar.    Boil  until  it  becomes  like  honey. — Mrs.  Wm.  Boyd,  Newark. 

QUINCE  HONEY. — Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  water,  2  large  quinces,  grated. 
Boil  until  thick. — Mrs.  Simpson,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

TOMATO  BUTTER. — Ten  pounds  tomatoes,  4  pounds  sugar,  1  quart  vine- 
gar, 2  tablespoons  orange  peel,  1  tablespoon  ground  cinnamon,  1  of  ground 
cloves.    Let  it  boil  until  quite  thick. — Mrs.  Richard  Duyckinck,  Somerville,  N.  J. 

PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS 

CHILI  SAUCE. — One  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  9  large  onions,  20  small  red  pep- 
pers, S  small  cups  best  vinegar,  1  coffee  cup  sugar,  1%  cups  salt,  4%  teaspoons 
mustard,  2  teaspoons  ground  cloves,  2  of  ground  cinnamon.  Boil  tomatoes  and 
strain  through  sieve  to  remove  seeds,  add  onions,  chopped  fine,  peppers,  vinegar, 
sugar  and  salt;  let  boil  1  hour;  then  add  mustard,  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Fine 
for  cold  meat.    Seal  up  as  fruit. — ^Mrs.  Lizzie  Graham. 

CHILI  SAUCE. — Chop  together  30  large  ripe  tomatoes,  6  red  peppers,  8 
large  onions,  add  5  tablespoons  salt,  10  of  sugar  and  7  cups  vinegar;  boil  1 
hour. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Jones,  Tyler,  Texas. 

CHILI  SAUCE. — Twenty-four  large  tomatoes,  8  green  peppers,  4  onions, 
4  tablespoons  salt,  8  of  brown  sugar,  1  of  ground  cinnamon,  a  few  whole  cloves, 
6  cups  vinegar,  chop  peppers  and  onions  fine,  boil  1  hour.  Bottle  while  hot  and 
seal  tight.— Mrs.  Eddy,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CHILI  SAUCE. — Twenty-four  ripe  tomatoes,  4  peppers,  4  onions  chopped 
fine.  2  cups  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons  allspice,  2  teaspoons  salt, 
1  of  ground  pepper.    Boil  2  hours. — Mrs.  Manual,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CHILI  SAUCE. — One-half  peck  tomatoes,  6  large  onions,  6  peppers,  % 
pound  soft  white  sugar,  salt  to  suit  taste,  2  tablespoons  whole  allspice,  2  of 
cloves,  1  of  celery  seed,  1  of  mustard  seed,  1  cup  vinegar.  Peel  and  chop  fine 
tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers,  leaving  seed  of  4  peppers  out;  cook  on  a  slow 
fire  for  1  hour.  Salt,  add  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices.  Cook  together  for  1  hour 
longer.  Seal  in  large  neck  bottles  while  hot.  Sew  cloves  and  spices  in  a  bag 
to  be  removed  from  sauce  before  bottling. — Mrs.  M.  Merideth,  N.  Y.  C. 

CHILI  SAUCE  WITH  RIPE  TOMATOES.— Take  24  ripe  tomatoes  of  fair 
size,  1  onion,  10  green  peppers  with  some  of  the  seeds  left  in.  Chop  all  rather 
fine,  adding  2  teaspoons  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  allspice,  nutmeg  and 
cloves,  2-3  of  a  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  1  quart  of  vinegar.  Simmer  all  together 
for  2  hours.— A.  W.  Burg,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


When  bacon  is  good  and  sweet,  the  lean  is  firm    and   bright, 
and  the  fat  quite  white. 

57 


CHOPPED  PICKLES. — Two  hundred  small  cucumbers,  soaked  in  salt  water 
over  night,  50  large  ones,  cut  in  dice  size;  1  cauliflower,  cut  in  pieces;  3  table- 
spoons white  mustard,  3  of  black  mustard,  3  of  celery  seed,  1  handful  of  juniper 
berries,  3  very  small  handfuls  of  small  green  peppers,  1  pint  of  small  onions, 
1  quart  of  prepared  English  chow-chow,  1  quart  of  sugar,  vinegar  to  cover,  and 
boil  slowly  1  hour. — Miss  E.  Slidder,  Oak  Grove,  Mich. 

CHOW-CHOW. — Take  2  heads  cabbage,  4  green  peppers,  3  onions  chopped 
fine,  2  heads  celery,  2  tablespoons  ground  cloves,  same  of  allspice,  put  spices 
in  a  muslin  bag,  2  tablespoons  mustard  seed,  1  quart  vinegar.  Scald  all  together 
for  y2  a  day  on  the  back  of  the  stove. — Mrs.  A.  Brown,  Ada,  Okla. 

CHOW-CHOW. — One  and  one-half  large  cucumbers,  1  peck  green  tomatoes, 
1  dozen  onions.  Chop  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  drain  overnight.  Add  1  pint 
brown  sugar,  %  cup  grated  horseradish,  Yz  cup  mixed  spices.  Cover  all  with 
vinegar  and  boil  1  hour. — Home  for  Aged. 

CHOW-CHOW  (English  recipe). — One  quart  young,  tiny  cucumbers,  2  quarts 
very  small  white  onions,  2  quarts  tender  string  beans,  each  1  cut  in  halves, 
3  quarts  green  tomatoes,  sliced  and  chopped  very  coarse;  2  fresh  heads  cauli- 
flower, cut  into  small  pieces,  or  two  heads  of  hard,  white  cabbage.  After  pre- 
paring these  articles,  put  them  in  a  stone  jar,  mix  them  together,  sprinkling 
salt  between  them  sparingly.  Let  them  stand  24  hours;  then  drain  off  all  the 
brine  that  has  accumulated.  Now  put  these  vegetables  in  a  preserving  kettle 
over  the  tire;  sprinkling  through  them  1  ounce  of  turmeric,  for  coloring;  6  red 
peppers,  chopped  coarsely;  4  tablespoons  mustard  seed;  2  of  celery  seed,  2  of 
allspice,  2  of  whole  cloves,  a  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  best  ground  mixed 
mustard.  Pour  on  enough  of  best  cider  vinegar  to  cover  the  whole  well.  Cover 
tightly  and  simmer  until  it  is  cooked  all  through  and  seems  tender,  watching 
and  stirring  it  often.  Put  in  bottles  or  glass  jars.  It  grows  better  as  it  grows 
older,  especially  if  sealed  when  hot. — M.  Anderson. 

CHOW-CHOW. — One-half  dozen  peppers  (2  red),  1  pint  small  onions,  1  pint 
lima  beans,  1  pint  green  corn,  2  dozen  small  .pickles,  %  peck  string  beans,  2 
heads  cauliflower,  %  gallon  vinegar,  Vz  box  mustard,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
salt,  2  of  celery  seed,  2  of  mustard  seed.  Boil  vegetables  till  tender,  drain  off 
water;  do  not  boil  peppers  or  pickles.  Mix  together  mustard,  sugar,  salt  and 
seeds  with  vinegar.  Then  pour  over  vegetables;  let  boil  till  thoroughly  heated; 
put  in  jars. — Miss  Sallie  Druckworth,  Warwick,  N.  Y. 

COLD  CATSUP. — One-half  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  pared;  1  cup  of  chopped 
onions,  1  cup  sugar,  1  small  cup  salt,  1  cup  grated  horseradish,  %  pound  of 
mustard  seed,  5  cents'  worth  of  celery  seed,  3  peppers,  chopped  fine,  1  table- 
spoon cinnamon,  1  of  ground  cloves,  1  of  pepper,  1  quart  vinegar.  Do  not  scald 
tomatoes. — Mrs.  Smith,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE. — Peel  and  quarter  cucumbers,  soak  In  salt  water  6 
hours,  drain,  place  in  jar,  cover  with  boiling  vinegar  to  which  a  little  sugar 
has  been  added. — Mrs.  Gasz,  Brooklyn,  N,  Y. 

CURRANT  CATSUP. — Six  pounds  ripe  currants,  3  pounds  sugar,  1  pound 
raisins,  1  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  of  cloves.  Boil  2  or  3  hours. — 
M.  Campbell,  Monmouth,  111. 

CURRANT  CATSUP. — Two  quarts  currant  juice,  2  quarts  sugar.  Boil  slow- 
ly till  syrup  is  nearly  jelly,  add  1  gill  good  vinegar  and  1  teaspoon  pounded 
cloves;  let  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  while  hot  bottle  air-tight. — Mrs.  A.  B. 
Knapp,  Santa  Barbara.  Cal. 


For  loss  of  voice  whip  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth  and  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

58 


ENGLISH  MIXED  PICKLE.— One  large  head  cabbage,  1  peck  green  toma- 
toes, 3  quarts  onions.  3  dozen  pickled  cucumbers,  3  bunches  celery,  2  heads 
cauliflower,  1  dozen  green  peppers,  ^  dozen  red  peppers,  3  pints  French  mus- 
tard, %  pound  mustard,  5  cents'  worth  white  mustard,  2  ounces  of  turmeric, 
2  tablespoons  Curry  powder,  1  gallon  vinegar.  Chop  vegetables,  not  fine; 
sprinkle  salt  enough  to  make  it  taste  salty;  but  not  briny.  Let  it  stand  until 
morning,  except  pickles  and  onions.  Pour  boiling  weak  brine  over  the  latter. 
Drain  all;  mix  vinegar,  mustards,  turmeric  and  Curry  powder  together,  and 
work  the  vegetables  into  the  mixture.— Miss  B.  Taft,  Howell,  0. 

GRAPE  CATSUP.— Five  pounds  ripe  grapes,  2^  pounds  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
pepper,  1  each  of  whole  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  allspice,  add  tied  in  small  bag 
2  cups  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  salt,  2  blades  mace.  Put  the  grapes  through  the 
press,  add  the  sugar,  vinegar,  salt  and  spices.  Boil  until  thick  as  ordinary 
catsup,  remove  the  whole  spices,  and  bottle  while  hot. — ^Mrs.  Grace  Reeder, 
Howell,  Mich. 

GRAPE  CATSUP. — Six  pounds  ripe  grapes;  boil  and  put  through  colander; 
2y2  pounds  sugar,  1  pint  cider  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  ground  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  allspice;  %  tablespoon  pepper,  Vz  of  salt.  Boil  till  thick. — M.  Camp- 
bell, Monmouth,  111. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE.— One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced,  6  large  onions 
sliced,  1  cup  salt  over  both;  mix  thoroughly  and  let  it  remain  over  night;  pour 
off  liquid  in  the  morning  and  throw  it  away;  mix  2  quarts  water  and  1  of 
vinegar  and  boil  20  minutes;  drain  and  throw  liquor  away;  take  3  quarts  vine- 
gar, 2  pounds  sugar,  2  tablespoons  each  of  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  mus- 
tard and  12  green  peppers  chopped  fine,  boil  from  1  to  2  hours.  Put  away  in  a 
stone  crock. — Mrs.  Hildebrant,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

HIGDIN  PICKLE, — Take  1  peck  green  tomatoes  and  a  dozen  onions.  Cut 
and  slice  these  and  salt  and  mix  together.  Let  them  stand  over  night,  then 
drain  them  well,  and  add  1  ounce  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper,  and  a 
little  mustard  seed,  also  a  pound  of  sugar  and  horseradish  to  taste.  Place  the 
mixture  In  a  kettle,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  cook  over  the  fire  until  tender. — 
Mrs.  Marsh,  Westfield.  N.  J. 

KETCHUP. — One  gallon  tomato  juice,  strained;  1  cup  sugar,  1  pint  vinegar, 
1  teaspoon  ground  cloves.  14  teaspoon  red  pepper,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper,  1 
tablespoon  mustard,  1  of  salt.    Boil  until  thick. — Mrs.  J.  Fisher,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

MIXED  PICKLES.— Twenty-five  very  small  pickles,  IVz  dozen  large  pared 
cucumbers,  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  quart  of  very  small  onions,  1  quart  of  little 
plum  green  tomatoes,  1  head  of  cauliflower,  cut  up;  cut  up  3  bunches  celery, 
cut  in  small  pieces;  %  peck  of  green  beans.  3  small  peppers.  Soak  pickles, 
onions,  peppers  and  tomatoes  over  night  in  salt  water;  cook  cauliflower  and 
beans  in  salt  water.  Then  take  %  of  a  pound  of  mustard,  1  quart  of  white 
vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  ground  cinnamon;  enough  of  turmeric 
powder  to  color.  Boil  all  together  until  tender;  can  while  hot,  in  glass  fruit 
jars. — Mrs.  A.  Q.  Ten  Eyck,  North  Branch,  N.  J. 

MOTHER  HUBBARD  PICKLE.— One  dozen  large  onions.  2  large  heads  of 
cabbage,  2  dozen  large  green  cucumbers.  3  ripe  cucumbers,  2  large  green  pep- 
pers. Shave  cabbage  fine,  and  cut  onions,  cucumbers  and  peppers  into  small 
pieces,  and  soak  all  separately  in  salt  and  water  over  night;  drain  all  in  the 
morning  and  place  in  kettle,  together  with  1  ounce  of  white  mustard  seed,  % 
ounce  of  turmeric.  2  ounces  of  celery  seed  and  ^4  of  a  pound  of  ground  mus- 
tard, mixed  smooth  with  some  vinegar,  2^  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  vinegar  to 
cover.    Boil  all  together  40  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  McMichael,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


Allow  your  curtains  to  thoroughly  dry  before  starching  them, 
they  will  remain  clean  a  much  longer  time. 

59 


OIL  PICKLES. — Cut  cucumbers  in  thin  slices  without  paring,  Vi  peck  onions 

to  2  gallons  cucumbers.  After  all  are  sliced  let  lie  in  salt  water  over  night. 
Drain  in  separate  colanders.  Three  tablespoons  mustard,  and  red  pepper;  % 
pint  good  salad  oil.  Mix  oil,  mustard  and  pepper,  and  pour  into  it  as  much 
cider  vinegar  as  will  cover  pickles.  Cover  closely  to  exclude  air  and  keep  in 
cool  place.    Ready  for  use  in  three  months. — A.  Dunbar,  Warwick,  N.  Y, 

PICCALILLI. — One  peck  green  tomatoes,  3  bunches  celery,  1  large  head 
cabbage,  3  red,  4  green  peppers,  2  pounds  light  brown  sugar,  i^  pound  mustard 
seed,  3  quarts  good  vinegar.  Chop  tomatoes,  celery,  cabbage  and  peppers; 
drain  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  sugar,  spice  and  vinegar.  Cook  well  and 
can. — Mrs.  John  (^lark,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PICCALILLI. — One  peck  green  tomatoes,  1%  heads  of  large  cabbage,  15  or 
20  medium  sized  onions,  3  small  red  peppers,  8  tablespoons  salt,  4  of  ground 
cloves,  2  of  ground  pepper,  3  of  ground  mustard,  1  cup  mustard  seed,  2  or  3 
pounds  of  brown  sugar.  Slice  tomatoes  in  the  morning;  let  drain  over  night. 
Next  day  cover  with  cider  vinegar  and  boil  slowly  2  hours. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Ten 
Eyck,  Westneld,  N.  J. 

CHOPPED  PICKLE.— One  peck  green  tomatoes,  12  onions,  1  cabbage,  12 
green  peppers,  1  pint  horse  radish,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  cloves, 
cinnamon,  ginger.  Chop  all  but  the  horse  radish  quite  coarse. — F.  Stimpson, 
Detroit.  Mich. 

TO  PICKLE  OYSTERS.— Take  the  oysters  and  let  them  scald  in  their  own 
liquor,  pick  them  out,  and  let  them  drain,  strain  the  liquor  and  take  enough  to 
cover  the  oysters,  add  to  this  a  pint  of  cider  vinegar,  a  teaspoon  of  whole 
black  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  allspice,  a  little  mace  and  1  lemon  sliced.  Boil 
this  and  pour  over  the  oyster,  cover  tight.  This  will  be  sufficient  to  cover  200 
oysters. — Mrs.  C.  Printer,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PICKLED  GREEN  TOMATOES.— Slice  1  peck  green  tomatoes,  10  green  pep- 
pers and  8  onions;  add  2  tablespoons  mustard  seed,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons each  cinnamon  and  cloves,  allspice;  i/^  cup  salt,  vinegar  to  cover;  boil 
until  tomatoes  can  be  cut  with  a  fork.  Tomatoes  should  stand  in  salt  water 
overnight. — Mrs.  A.  Coates,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

RASPBERRY  SYRUP.— Take  6  quarts  of  raspberries;  pour  over  them  1 
quart  of  cider  vinegar;  let  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  strain  and  add  1 
pound  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice  and  boil  twenty  minutes;  then  put  in  bottles  for 
use. — Mrs.  Walter  Smith,  Roseville,  N.  J. 

SPICED  CANTALOUPE.— Take  7  pounds  of  fruit,  4  pounds  of  sugar,  about 
1  ounce  each  of  whole  cloves  and  allspice.  Wet  sugar  witb  vinegar,  and  let 
come  to  a  boil;  then  drop  in  fruit  and  spices,  tied  in  a  bag,  and  let  boil  until 
tender,  and  the  fruit  will  become  brown.  Use  enough  vinegar  to  give  pleasant 
taste. — Mrs.  H.  Paxson,  Tyler,  Texas. 

SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLE.— One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  chopped  fine; 
sprinkle  1  cup  salt  over  them  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain 
through  a  colander.  Add  to  the  tomatoes  6  peppers,  chopped  fine;  two  cups 
sugar;  cover  with  vinegar  and  let  boil  20  minutes.  When  taken  off  the  fire 
stir  in  2  ounces  of  mustard  seed,  1  of  allspice,  1  of  cloves.  1  of  celery  seed,  8 
onions,  chopped  fine.  Cover  all  over  with  cold  vinegar. — Lizzie  Taylor,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 

SWEET  PICKLES. — Take  a  peach  basket  of  green  tomatoes,  6  quarts  white 
onions  sliced  and  salted  over  night,  6  large  green  peppers,  small  box  mixed 
spices,  2  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon,  i/^  cup  sugar,  2  quarts  vinegar.     In  the 


Sweet  oil  will  remove  finger  marks  from  varnished  furniture. 
Kerosene  is  better  for  furniture  that  is  oiled  or  waxed. 

60 


morning  drain  the  water  off  the  tomatoes  and  onions,  put  spices  in  bag,  put 
vinegar,  spices  and  sugar  in  pot,  when  it  boils  put  in  the  other  things.  Boil 
until  onions  are  half  done,  then  add  peppers.— Mrs.  A.  Evans,  Ada,  Okla. 

TOMATO  CATSUP.— Boil  1  peck  tomatoes,  3  red  peppers,  2  onions  V2 
hour,  strain  through  a  colander,  place  on  fire  and  add  V2  pound  salt,  3  table- 
spoons black  pepper,  1  ounce  ginger,  1  of  allspice,  V2  cloves,  put  spices  in  a 
cloth,  let  this  boil  5  hours.  When  cold  add  V^  pound  mustard  mixed  with  Yz 
pint  of  vinegar,  then  bottle  and  keep  in  a  dark,  cool  place. — Mrs.  J.  Gasz, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. — One  basket  tomatoes,  4  large  onions,  4  peppers. 
Chop  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers  together;  let  them  come  to  a  boil  and 
strain  through  a  colander;  then  through  a  sieve.  Then  add  %  cup  salt,  1 
pint  cider  vinegar,  y^,  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  li^  allspice,  1  of 
ground  cloves,  5  cents'  worth  of  celery  seed. — Alice  Kelly,  Littl^  Rock,  Ark. 


BEVERAGES 


CHERRY  WATER.— Crush  V2  pint  of  sour  cherries  with  two  heaping 
tablespoons  sugar  and  %  pint  cracked  ice.  Shake  this  well  together  and 
drink  through  a  straw. — Mrs.  Manns,  Germantown,  Pa. 

CURRANT  SHRUB. — A  delicious  preparation  and  a  superior  to  jelly 
dissolved  in  water.  Two  quarts  currant  juice,  6  lbs.  sugar,  6  lemons  (seeds 
removed),  and  1  pint  cider  vinegar.  Slice  the  lemons  fine,  boil  a  few  minutes 
in  a  small  quantity  of  currant  juice;  add  remainder  of  juice  and  sugar;  boil 
5  minutes;  strain  and  stir  until  cold;  add  vinegar;  bottle  and  use  a  few 
spoons  in  a  glass  of  water  when  ready  to  drink. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB.— Place  red  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  them 
with  good  cider  vinegar  and  let  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  strain  and 
to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1  pint  of  sugar;  boil  for  5  minutes,  skim  and  let 
cool;  then  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  When  wanted  for  use,  add  2  tablespoons 
to  a  glass  of  ice  water. — Mrs.  H.  Stour,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

RASPBERRY  SYRUP.— Take  6  quarts  of  raspberries;  pour  over  them  1 
quart  of  cider  vinegar;  let  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  strain  and  add 
1  pound  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice  and  boil  tv/enty  minutes;  then  put  in  bottles 
for  use. — Mrs.  Walter  Smith,  Roseville,  N.  J. 

SPARKLOG  LEMONADE.— Slice  lemons  and  to  each  V2  dozen  add  2  cups 
sugar,  let  it  stand  15  or  20  minutes,  add  3  quarts  water  to  each  half  dozen 
lemons,  a  quantity  of  cracked  ice  and  let  it  stand  %  of  an  hour  longer.  Strain 
and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  To  make  it  sparkle  add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  eaclxglass 
when  serving. — Mrs.  Wm.  Schade,  Helena,  Mont. 

UNFERMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE — To  every  20  pounds  of  grapes  take  4 
quarts  water.  Mash  grapes  and  bring  to  the  boil.  Strain  first  through  a  col- 
ander or  sieve  them  through  a  flannel  bag.  Put  back  on  fire  and  add  3 
pounds  sugar  to  every  20  pounds  grapes.  Bring  to  boil  and  keep  boiling  20 
minutes.  Strain  twice  through  fiannel  and  put  back  on  fire.  Bring  to  a  boil. 
Bottle  and  seal.  When  wishing  to  serve,  dilute  with  enough  water  to  suit  the 
taste.— Mrs.  W.  Maxwell,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 


Plunge  white  goods  which  have  become  yellow  in  boiling-hot  starch 
into  which  a  little  blueing  has  been  added,  after  washing  them  in  the 
usual  manner.  Leave  in  the  starch  until  cold,  and  hang  in  bright  sun. 


61 


CANDY 


BROWN  SUGAR  CANDT^Two  and  one-half  cirps  light  brown  sugar,  V2 
cup  milk  or  cream,  a  little  butter.  When  this  has  cooked  enough  so  that  it 
makes  a  soft  ball  in  water,  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  i/^  cup  of  chopped 
nuts  and  beat  until  creamy. — Clara  Hohenstein,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

CRACKER  JACK, — One  cup  molasses,  2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
2  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Boil  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  cracks,  then 
take  from  the  fire,  add  a  half  teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  beat  briskly  and  pour 
Into  a  pan  upon  popped  corn  and  chopped  peanuts. — Mrs.  Petherbridge. 

CREAM  CAIfDT. — To  2  cups  sugar  add  %  cup  water,  boil  without  stirring 
till  it  threads,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  let  it  cool  till  you  can  dip  your 
fingers  into  it  Then  take  and  stir  rapidly  to  a  cream.  This  is  the  foundation 
for  all  cream  candies. — E.  M.  Young,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CHOCOLATE  CAJRAMELS. — One  cup  chocolate,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
molasses,  1  cup  milk  or  cream,  butter  the  size  of  egg,  boil  until  thick,  almost 
brittle — 1  tablespoon  vanilla,  stir  constantly. — E.  Carlson,  Westfield. 

CHOCOLATE  CHIPS.— Make  first  a  candy  of  molasses  for  the  filling.  A 
good  rule  calls  for  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  2-3  cup  of  sugar,  and  butter  a 
heaping  teaspoon,  boiled  together  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  is  crisp. 
Flavor  with  a  little  vanilla,  pour  into  buttered  tins  and  when  cool  enough  to 
handle  pull  this  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  When  perfectly  cold,  dip  these  pieces 
In  melted,  sweetened  chocolate,  flavored  with  vanilla,  then  lay  on  waxed  paper 
to  dry  and  harden. — ^^Grace  Geer,  Ypsilanti.  Mich. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM. — For  the  cream  take  1  pound  of  sugar  and  enough 
cream  to  be  able  to  mould  into  balls  the  size  desired,  and  put  on  parafiine  paper 
to  harden.  Melt  %  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate  and  while  hot  dip  the  balls  of 
cream  until  they  are  well  coated,  then  return  to  the  parafiine  paper  to  cool. 
Flavor  the  balls  with  any  flavor  desired. — ^Slrs.  S.  Burhans,  Westfield. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE.— Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  milk,  1  butter  ball  size  of 
walnut,  2  squares  of  chocolate.  Beat  it  about  8  minutes.  Just  before  beating, 
put  in  %  teaspoon  vanilla. — E.  Van  Buskirk.  Westfield,  N.  J. 

DIYINITT. — Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  Karo  corn  syrup,  ^;  cup  water,  pinch 
salt.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Beat 
all  together  until  creamy.  Add  nuts  and  candied  cherries. — H.  Pearsall,  West- 
field,  N.  J. 

MAPLE  CREAMS.— One  cup  maple  sugar,  i^  cup  cream  or  milk,  lump  of 
butter.  Boil  until  it  brittles  in  cold  water.  Let  stand  until  cool,  then  beat  to 
a  cream.    Put  in  buttered  tins  and  cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  R.  Marsh. 

NUT  BUTTER  SCOTCH Boil  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  molasses 

until  it  snaps  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Stir  in  a  cup  of  finely  Chopped 
pecan  nuts,  spread  thinly  in  pans  and  mark  it  in  squares,  cap  each  square  with 
a  pecan  nut,  halved. — Miss  H,  Snyder,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

PEANUT  CANDTr— Shell  1  quart  of  peanuts  and  chop  fine.  Put  1  pound 
sugar  in  a  shallow  pan  and  allow  it  to  melt  slowly  on  back  of  stove,  do  not  put 
on  the  hot  part  of  the  stove  or  add  water  to  start  the  melting  of  the  sugar. 
Have  ready  a  hot  dish,  buttered  freely,  and  when  the  sugar  has  dissolved  to  a 
liquid  consistency  sprinkle  the  nuts  on  the  dish  and  pour  over  them  the  melted 
sugar.  Spread  over  enough  surface  to  make  a  thin  candy. — Miss  Belle  Pearce, 
Howell,  Mich. 


Almond  meal  is  a  splendid  application  for  tender  hands. 

62 


PEANUT  CANDY. — Two  eups  sugar,  put  In  pan  on  stove,  have  large  spoon 
and  keep  stirring  constantly  until  like  syrup;  have  one  pint  of  peanuts  hulled 
and  rolled  ready  to  put  in  when  sugar  is  melted  and  pour  out  on  buttered  plate 
to  cool.— Mrs.  B.  F.  Ballard,  Philadelphia.  Pa, 

PEPPERMINT  CANDY.— One  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  water,  one-half 
teaspoon  peppermint,  one-fourth  scant  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  butter  size  of 
hickory  nut. — Miss  Julia  Hoyt,  Owosso,  Mich. 

PEPPERMINT  DROPS One  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  boiling  water.    Boil 

3  minutes.  Then  beat  in  4  tablespoons  sugar,  and  4  drops  of  oil  of  peppermint. 
Drop  while  hot  on  oil  paper. — Alice  Hildebrant,  Westfield,  N.  J, 

PENUCHI. — One-half  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  egg,  1^  pounds  light  brown 
sugar,  3  teaspoons  condensed  milk,  1  pound  nuts,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Let  but- 
ter and  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  sugar;  boll  until  it  thickens  when  put  In 
cold  water.  Take  from  fire,  add  nuts  and  beat  with  a  large  fork  until  it  is  very 
stiff  and  creamy. — Miss  C.  M.  Brown.  Oakland,  Cal. 

SOFT  CARAMELS. — Make  either  with  or  without  nuts,  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  V2  cup  corn  starch,  8  tablespoons  sugar.  Stir  until  stiff  enough  to 
manipulate  with  the  hands  then  work  just  with  the  fingers. — Mrs.  R.  Marsh, 
Westfield,  N.  J. 

STUFFED  DATES.— Stone  dates  and  lay  on  a  dish.  Chop  fine  English 
walnuts  mixing  with  this  powdered  sugar  to  taste.  Mix  and  fill  dates,  then  roll 
them  in  sugar. — Mrs.  Marsh,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

SUPERIOR  CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS Boil  1  pound  granulated  sugar  In 

Vz  pint  of  water  for  5  minutes,  add  Vz  pint  of  cream,  and  again  boil,  add  2 
ounces  butter  and  %  pound  chocolate,  boil  until  it  cracks  readily  in  cold  water. 
Pour  onto  iron  sheet  or  marble  slab  in  a  thick  sheet,  and  when  cold  cut  up  into 
squares  with  a  knife. — Miss  E.  E.  Carlson,  Westfield,  N.  J. 

VANILLA  TAFFY — Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  vinegar,  ^  cup  water,  butter 
size  of  a  walnut,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Then  pull. 
— Mrs.  Wheeler  Russell,  Oak  Gi'ove,  Mich. 

VINEGAR  CANDY. — Two  cups  molasses.  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
vinegar.    Boil  until  it  strings  from  spoon. — ^Mrs.  D.  H.  Stoddard. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


BEEF  BROTH  FOR  INVALIDS.— One  pound  lean  beef  chopped  rather 
coarse.  Let  stand  in  cold  water  enough  to  just  cover  it  for  15  minutes;  then 
set  on  stove;  let  come  to  a  scald,  set  back,  simmer  1  hour.  If  the  water  cooks 
down  fill  in  enough  to  keep  it  the  original  quantity.  Strain. — Miss  H.  Schnei- 
der, Brooklyn.  N.  Y. 

BUTTER  CAKES.— Sift  together  1  quart  flour,  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon 
sugar  and  2  large  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add  a  quart  and  a  pint  of  milk 
and  mix  into  a  batter  a  little  stiffer  than  for  pan  cakes.  Have  the  griddle  heated 
evenly  all  over  and  lightly  greased,  and  on  it  lay  the  muffin  rings.  Half  fill 
with  the  batter  and  bake  until  well  risen  to  the  top  of  the  rings.  Turn  carefully 
with  the  cake  turner.  They  should  not  be  too  brown. — ^Mrs.  F.  L  Smith,  Plain- 
field,  N.  J. 

CAULIFLOWER   BRAISLE Soak   cauliflower  in   cold   water  for   a  few 

hours,  then  boil  for  1  hour  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain  it.  and  sprinkle  with 
a  few  drops  of  vinegar  mixed  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover  with  braisle. 
Braisle  means  soft  bread  crumbs  fried  in  a  little  butter  until  brown. — Mrs. 
Thomas  Line,  Omaha,  Neb. 


Soda  mixed  with  blueing  water  prevents  the  clothes  becoming 

streaked. 


63 


GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS 

Take  no  extra  steps.  Have  food  and  utensils  close  at  hand, — a  kitchen 
cabinet  or  shelves  for  food  and  cooking  materials,  such  as  baking  powder, 
spices,  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  etc.,  will  save  lots  of  time.  Have  small  utensils  in  a 
drawer  in  the  cabinet  or  working  table,  or  hung  on  hooks  within  easy  reaching 
distance.  The  table  and  sink  should  be  high  enough  for  any  woman  to  use 
without  having  to  stoop.  These  things  will  save  a  woman's  health  and  strength 
more  than  all  the  new  fangled  kitchen  utensils  ever  invented. 

Use  as  few  dishes  as  possible  and  clean  up  as  you  go  along.  Put  things 
back  in  their  places  immediately  after  using.  Work  neatly,  quickly  and  quietly. 
The  dress  should  be  plain  and  of  washable  material,  and  the  aprons  without 
gathers,  and  of  light  colored  material.  Hands  and  nails  clean,  and  the  hair 
tidy;  the  work  should  be^  pleasant  and  healthful  with  all  these  conveniences 
that  are  easily  had. 

SETTIK6  THE  TABLE 

The  food  may  be  carefully  selected  and  economically  purchased;  it  may  be 
also  well  cooked  and  seasoned,  but  if  it  is  carelessly  served,  and  the  table  set 
without  any  regard  to  order  and  taste,  much  of  the  real  pleasure  is  lost.  Let  the 
children  whether  boy  or  girl,  learn  how  to  do  this  well,  and  be  held  responsible 
occasionally  for  doing  it. 

In  the  first  place  the  linen  should  be  spotless  and  white,  and  as  fine  as  your 
style  of  living  warrants,  the  coarser  ones  for  everyday  use  and  the  fine  ones  for 
special  occasions.  They  should  be  washed  and  ironed  with  care,  with  corners 
of  napkins  and  tablecloth  folded  evenly. 

The  cloth  should  have  a  pad  of  some  thick  cloth  next  the  table,  as  it 
saves  the  wear  of  the  tablecloth  along  the  edges. 

Spread  the  cloth  without  wrinkling  and  have  the  corners  hang  even.  Do 
not  throw  the  napkin  down  any  place  but  at  the  left  of  the  fork,  and  exercise 
all  the  individual  taste  possible  and  table  setting  soon  becomes  an  art  which 
all  the  family  appreciates  and  enjoys. 

WEIGHTS  A>»  MEASUEES 

If  Ton  Have  5o  Scales  in  the  Kitchen 

Four  teaspoonfuls  of  liquid  equal  to  one  tablespoonful. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  equal  to  one-half  gill,  or  one-quarter  cup. 

One  tablespoonful  of  liquid  equal  to  one-half  ounce. 

One  pint  of  liquid  equal  to  one  pound. 

Two  gills  of  liquid  equal  to  one  cup  or  one-half  pint. 

One  kitchen  cup  equal  to  one-half  pint. 

One  heaping  quart  fiour  equal  to  one  pound. 

Four  cups  of  fiour  equal  to  one  quart,  or  one  pound. 

One  rounded  tablespoonful  of  flour  equal  to  one-half  ounce. 

Three  cups  of  corn  meal  equal  to  one  pound. 

One  cup  of  butter  equal  to  one-half  pound. 

One  pint  of  butter  equal  to  one  pound. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter  equal  to  one  ounce. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg  equal  to  two  ounces. 

One  solid  pint  of  chopped  meat  equal  to  one  pound. 

Ten  eggs  equal  to  one  pound. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  equal  to  one  pound. 

One  pint  of  granulated  sugar  equal  to  one  pound. 

One  pint  of  brown  sugar  equal  to  thirteen  ounces. 

Two  and  one  half  cups  powdered  sugar  equal  to  one  pound. 


Wash  a  pongee  garment  in  a  warm  suds  of  white  soaf»  and 
hang  it  out  until  thoroughly  dry.  I>o  not  sprinkle  it.  Iron  it  on 
the  \«n*ong  side,  and  it  will  retain  its  lustre  and  look  like  new. 


COUPON  BONDS  | 

6  Per  Cent-$25.00  to  $10,000      I 

Interest  May  and  November 

The  Mutual  Building  Association 

121  -123  W.  Tazewell  St.,  Norfolk,  Va. 

Established  1889 

Compliments  of 

The  Great 

Atlantic 

and 

Pacific 

Tea  Co. 


Compliments  of 


J.  S.  BARRON 


Compliments  of 

MRS.  N.  C.  BOOKER 

Courtney  Terrace 

Ocean  Front  at  Seventeenth  Street 


Compliments  of 

J.  E.  OLD 

Treasurer  Princess  Anne  Connty  | 

i 

Compliments  of 

I  J.  C.  LITCHFIELD 

j  Sheriff  of  Princess  Anne  County 


f 


1  Compliments  of 

I  F.  A.  M.  Burroughs 

I  Commissioner  of  Revenue  of  Princess  Anne  County 


Compliments  of 

F.   E.  KELLAM 

Princess  Anne 


I 


Compliments  of 

BOULEVARD  SHOPPE      | 

W.  A.  SHEAN,  Prop. 
Atlantic  Avenue   Between  22t6.  and  24th  Streets 


•^M 


^' "— - 


HORNER'S  CLEANERS  &  DYERS 


OPPOSITE  THE 
ROLAND  THEATRE 


Compliments  of 

W.  H.  TERRY  &  SON 
Virginia  Beach  Real  Estate 

PROPERTY  MANAGEMENT         SALES  RENTALS 

,  Compiiments  of 

VIRGINIA  BEACH 
SHOE  REPAIRING 

t 

PERMANENT  WAVE  $  5.00 

I  Shampoo  and  Marcel  -         -         -         $  1.00 

I  Shampoo  and  Finger  Wave  -         -         -  1.00 

1  Electric  and  Shower  Bath      -         -         -  1.00 

\  Violet  Ray  and  Buttermilk  Pack    -         -  1.00 

i  Shampoo,  Coftib-Wa\ie  ^nd.  Manicure  -  1.00 

,  THE  WELFARE  BEAUTY  SHOPPE 

i  [  PHONE  34295    ^'^. 

!  THIRD  FLOOR  HADDINGTON  BULDING 

<   COR.  CITY  HALL  AVENUE  and  GRANBY  S'PREET^  .  ^ 


I 


E.  J  O  N  E  S 

DEALER  IN 

General  Merchandise 

Gas  and  Oils 

Lake  Smith  R-2,  Norfolk,  Va. 

,  Compliments  of 

The  Purity  Bakery 

Norfolk,  Va. 

Compliments  of 

Fuel,  Feed  &  Building  Supplies 
Corporation 

Virginia  Beach,  Va. 


Manicuring  and  Shampooing  Facial  and  Scalp  Massage 

Hair  Dressing  Permanent  Hair  Waving 


I  MONTICELLO 

BEAUTY  PARLORS 

1  DELMA  STEWART 

MONTICELLO  HOTEL 

Telephone  22540  Toilet  Accessories  | 


New  Pinewood  Hotel 

and  Traymore  Apartments 

The  Ocean  Front  at  Ninth  St.,  Virginia  Beach,  Va.  j 
J.  T.  ADDISON,  Manager 

Phones,  Virginia  Beach  296,  297,  298 


DRINK 


Coca  Cola  Bottling  Works,  Inc. 

NORFOLK,  VA.  | 
j 

i 
I 

i 


Compliments  of 


W.   R.   PAYNE  I 

Superviser  Lynnhaven  District  I 


Use  BIRCHARD  MILK      I 


For  Children  and  Household  i 

Purposes  j 

BIRCHARD  DAIRIES,  Inc.  j 

PHONE  22385 


BARR'S  PHARMACY 

17th  and  ATLANTIC 

BARR  No.  2 

ATLANTIC  NEAR  24th 

VIRGINIA  BEACH  BARBER  SHOP 

17th  Street 

OPPOSITE  N.  S.  STATION 

VIRGINIA  BEACH,  VA. 

Compliments  of 

J.  F.  WOODHOUSE 

CLERK  OF  CIRCUIT  COURT 

EDWARDS 

Interior  Decorating,  Upholstering,  Refinishing 

SLIP  COVERS  MADE  TO  ORDER 

ANTIQUES  RESTORED 

314  West  Olney  Road  Telephone  36108 

NORFOLK,  VA. 


The  Ideal 

AU-Purpose 

Shortening 

Made  at  Portsmouth,  Va. 


For  a   Free  Copy   of  the   Modern   Homemaker's   Cook 
Book,  48  pages  of  practical  recipes,  address 

FLUFFO,  Suite  1101,  205  East  42nd  St.,  New  York 

Meredith's  Drug  Store 

Prescription  Druggists 

We  carry  a  full  line  of  everything  carried  by  any 

Drug  Store 

Bathing  Supplies,  Sand  Toys,  High  Grade  Candies,  Etc. 

Two  Stores,  17th  at  Depot,  Phone  797 
And  Boulevard  Near  20th  St.,  Phone  583 

VIRGINIA   BEACH,  VA. 


Compliments  of 


The  Pocahontas 


AlAvays  a  Good  Show  at 

ROLAND  THEATRE 

VIRGINIA  BEACH 

Get  the  Habit  of  Coming  Here  and 
Bring  the  Family 

No  Week  well  spent  unless  you  treat  yourself 
to  at  least  one  show  at  the  ROLAND 


Compliments  of 

A.  E.  EWELL 

Superviser  Kempsville  District 

Compliments  of 

L.  O.  HINES 

Engineer,  Court  House 


PATRONIZE 

Your  Home  Chain  of 
,  Pure  Food  Stores 

i 

I 

j  OUR  GUARANTEE 

I  Any  article  purchased  in  any  GOLD 

STAR  STORE  must  please  you!  After 
using  all  of  the  article  if  it  does  not  please 
you  return  the  empty  container  and  we 
will  gladly  refund  the  full    purchase    price. 

YOU  MUST  BE  SATISFIED 


I 


Virginia  Beach  Store 

225  17th  Street  Pho.ie  263 

GOLD  STAR  STO 


Compliments  of 

j  JOS.    T.   DEAL 

I        Democratic  Candidate 
for  Congress 


S.  S.  KELLAM  M.  C.  EATON 

KELLAM  &  EATON 

General  Insurance 
and   Surety  Bonds 

5  A  Roland  Court  Building 

VIRGINIA  BEACH,  VA. 


