/"•> 


F 


PROPERTIES  OF  SEVERAL  TYPES  OF  SALTED  YOLK 
AND  FUNCTIONALITY  IN  MAYONNAISE/ 


by 

Lisa  J.  Harrison 
B.S.,  Texas  Tech  University,  Lubbock,  Texas,  1982 

A  MASTER'S  THESIS 

submitted  in  partial  fulfillment  of  the 

requirements  for  the  degree 

MASTER  OF  SCIENCE 

Food  Science 
(Department  of  Animal  Sciences  and  Industry) 

KANSAS  STATE  UNIVERSITY 
Manhattan,  Kansas 

1984 


Approved  by 


ajor  Professor 


c.   3 


A11H0H   1,28706 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

LITERATURE  REVIEW 

Introduction 

Emulsions 

Egg  yolk  and  emulsification 

Relative  volume  of  phases 

Emulsifying  effect  of  the  mustard 

Method  of  mixing 

Water  hardness 

Viscosity 

MATERIALS  AND  METHODS 

Yolk  preparation 

Emulsifying  capacity 

Viscosity 

Mayonnaise  preparation  and  testing 

RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSION 

Liquid  yolk 

Frozen  yolk 

Yolk  solids 

Mayonnaise  microbiology 

REFERENCES 

APPENDIX 


PAGE 

1 
2 
11 

20 
22 
23 
2k 
24 

29 
31 
31 
32 

36 
51 
6<* 
74 

77 

S4 


INTRODUCTION 

Food  emulsions  are  a  significant  part  of  the  food  industry.  Milk,  a 
natural  oil-in-water  emulsion,  has  long  been  an  important  and  nutritious  part 
of  the  human  diet  (Graf  and  Bauer,  1976).  As  food  scientists  discovered  and 
studied  other  natural  emulsions,  man-made  food  emulsions  began  to  appear. 
Cake  batters  (Shepard  and  Yoell,  1976),  ice  cream  (Berger,  1976),  margarine 
(Brown,  1949,  Weiss,  1970),  and  meat  products  such  as  sausage  and 
frankfurters  (Schut,  1976)  are  just  a  few  examples.  Another  man-made  food 
emulsion,  whose  production  and  consumption  has  grown  rapidly,  is 
mayonnaise. 

The  legends  connected  with  the  invention  of  mayonnaise  have  been 
described  by  Robinson  (1924).  Although  there  is  a  divergence  of  opinion  as  to 
its  origin,  mayonnaise  has  been  known  for  many  centuries  (Robinson,  1924). 
From  1917  to  1927,  economic  and  industrial  changes  brought  about  shifts  in 
American  dietary  habits  and  mayonnaise  became  a  diet  staple  involving  a 
large  scale  industry  (Epstein,  1937).  Finberg  (1955)  estimated  that 
approximately  39  million  gallons  of  mayonnaise  and  salad  dressing  were 
produced  in  1938.  By  1953  that  figure  had  risen  to  over  100  million  gallons. 
In  1983,  approximately  175,686,000  gallons  of  mayonnaise  and  62,469,000 
gallons  of  salad  dressing  were  produced,  for  a  total  production  of  over  238 
million  gallons  (Preston,  1983).  This  rise  in  consumption  and  production  seems 
to  be  due  to  a  continuing  increase  in  sandwich  and  salad  consumption 
(Finberg,  1955). 

Standards  of  Identity  for  mayonnaise  define  the  product  as  a  semi-solid 
emulsion    made  of  egg  yolk,  edible  vegetable  oil,  and  acetic  or  citric  acid.  It 


2 
also  may  contain  salt,  spices  or  spice  oils,  natural  sweeteners,  and  various 
natural  flavoring  ingredients.  Oil  content  must  be  not  less  than  65%  by 
weight  and  the  product  must  contain  at  least  2.5%  acetic  acid  by  weight. 
Citric  acid  in  the  form  of  lemon  or  lime  juice  may  replace  the  acetic  acid  at 
a  minimum  level  of  2.5%.  The  egg  yolk  may  be  from  separated  yolk  or  whole 
egg,  and  may  be  in  the  liquid,  frozen,  and/or  dried  forms.  This  ingredient 
provides  emulsifying  properties  and  gives  the  mayonnaise  a  pale  yellow  color, 
which  may  not  be  intensified  by  any  other  ingredient. 

EMULSIONS 
Many  incomplete  definitions  of  emulsions  have  been  compiled  by  Becher 
(1957),  who  also  gave  his  own,  more  technical  definition.  Simply  stated,  an 
emulsion  is  "a  two-phase  system  of  immiscible  liquids"  (Lynch  and  Griffin, 
197*)  that  "posses(es)  a  minimal  stability"  (Becher,  1957).  One  phase  is  in  the 
form  of  finely  divided  droplets  whose  diameters  generally  are  larger  than 
O.lu  (Becher,  1957).  This  dispersed,  internal,  or  discontinuous  phase  is 
suspended  in  the  continuous  or  external  phase.  Emulsion  stability  is  increased 
by  the  addition  of  an  emulsifier,  which  lowers  the  interfacial  tension.  The 
lipophilic  (oil  loving)  portion  of  an  emulsifier  orients  itself  with  the  oil  phase 
of  an  emulsion,  while  the  hydrophilic  (water  loving)  portion  orients  with  the 
water  phase,  forming  a  shell  around  the  droplets  of  the  dispersed  phase 
(Figure  1).  By  orienting  itself  at  the  interface,  the  emulsifier  prevents  the 
dispersed  particles  from  coalescing  and  separating  out,  thereby  increasing 
the  emulsion's  stability  (Lynch  and  Griffin,  197*).  The  technical  aspects  and 
mechanisms  of  emulsions  can  be  found  in  the  abundant  literature  (Clayton, 
1928,  Clayton  and  Morse,  1939,  King,  19*1,  Becher,  1957). 


FIGURE  1.    Orientation  of  an  emulsifier  around  the  droplets 
in  an  emulsion. 


5 

Emulsion  properties 

Emulsion  properties  may  be  physical  or  chemical  in  nature,  or  both. 
Although  it  is  difficult  to  characterize  all  facets  of  emulsions,  their 
properties  generally  depend  on  the  properties  of  the  continuous  phase  and 
the  proportion  of  the  continuous  phase  to  the  dispersed  phase  (Lynch  and 
Griffin,  1974).  According  to  Lynch  and  Griffin  (197*)  and  Bennett  (19*7)  the 
eight  major  properties  of  an  emulsion  are: 

Appearance.  The  ingredients  used,  their  color  and  the  difference  in 
refractive  index,  and  the  particle  size  of  the  dispersed  phase  all  influence 
the  appearance  of  an  emulsion.  A  particle  size  of  0.5  to  5u  yields  an  opaque 
emulsion.  Emulsion  color  usually  depends  on  the  color  of  the  continuous 
phase. 

Dispersability  and  Emulsion  Type.  Oil-in-water  emulsions  can  be 
dispersed  in  and  diluted  by  water,  while  water-in-oil  emulsions  can  be 
dispersed  in  and  diluted  by  oils. 

Viscosity.  Emulsion  viscosity  depends  largely  on  the  viscosity  of  the 
external  phase  and  the  ratio  of  external  to  internal  phases.  In  low 
internal-phase-ratio  emulsions,  such  as  milk,  viscosity  is  similar  to  that  of 
the  external  phase.  As  the  concentration  of  the  internal  phase  increases, 
viscosity  also  increases.  When  the  volume  of  the  internal  phase  becomes 
greater  than  that  of  the  external  phase,  a  high  internal-phase-ratio  emulsion, 
such  as  mayonnaise,  is  formed.  Theoretically,  only  7*%  of  an  emulsion's 
total  volume  can  be  occupied  by  the  dispersed  phase  when  the  droplets  are 
spherical.  However,  high  internal-phase-ratio  emulsions  have  more  than  7*% 
of  the  emulsion  in  the  dispersed  phase,  causing  distortion  of  the  dispersed 
droplets.     This  distortion   results  in  a  higher  degree  of  plasticity,  as  well   as 


6 
allowing    particle   size    and    charge    to    have    a  greater    effect    on    emulsion 
viscosity. 

Particle  size.  The  diameter  of  the  internal  phase  globules  usually  is 
taken  as  the  particle  size.  Fine  emulsions  contain  particles  with  small 
diameters,  while  coarse  emulsions  contain  large  globules.  Good  stability 
generally  is  associated  with  fine,  uniform  particle  size.  The  type  and 
quantity  of  emulsifier,  the  order  of  addition  of  ingredients,  and  the  amount 
of  work  done  to  form  the  emulsion  all  influence  particle  size. 

Particle  charge.  A  charge  is  present  on  the  dispersed  particles  of 
almost  all  emulsions.  This  charge  is  extremely  important  in  maintaining 
stability  of  small  particle  size  emulsions,  but  is  less  important  in  high 
viscosity  emulsions,  such  as  mayonnaise. 

Conductivity.  Oil-in-water  emulsions  are  strong  electrical  conductors, 
while  water-in-oil  emulsions  are  poor  conductors.  This  property  provides  one 
means  of  identifying  emulsion  types. 

pH.  The  effects  of  pH  on  emulsion  stability  only  recently  have  begun  to 
receive  research  attention.  Changes  in  emulsions  often  can  be  achieved  by 
pH  adjustments. 

Stability.  The  stability  of  an  emulsion  refers  to  how  long  the  internal 
phase  will  stay  dispersed  under  normal  conditions  of  shipping  and  storage. 
When  the  droplets  of  the  dispersed  phase  coalesce  and  the  phases  separate, 
the  emulsion  is  referred  to  as  "broken".  The  rate  at  which  coalescence 
occurs  depends  on  the  type  and  concentration  of  the  emulsifier,  the  size  of 
the  dispersed  droplets,  the  charge  on  the  particles,  the  emulsion  viscosity, 
and  the  transportation  and  storage  conditions  to  which  the  emulsion  is 
subjected. 


Hydrophile-lipophile  balance 

The  hydrophile-lipophile  balance  (HLB)  is  probably  the  most  common 
means  of  choosing  an  emulsifier.  HLB  is  "an  expression  of  the  relative 
simultaneous  attraction  of  an  emulsifier  ...for  the  two  phases  of  the  emulsion 
system  being  considered"  (Lynch  and  Griffin,  1974).  The  chemical  composition 
and  the  extent  of  ionization  of  an  emulsifier  apparently  determine  it's  HLB 
value.    These  values  range  from  1  to  20. 

In  general,  emulsifiers  with  HLB  numbers  below  9  are  lipophilic  and 
tend  to  form  water-in-oil  emulsions;  those  with  HLB  numbers  of  11  to  20  are 
hydrophilic  and  tend  to  form  oil-in-water  emulsions.  Those  with  HLB  values 
of  9  to  11  are  classified  as  intermediate  (Lynch  and  Griffin,  1974).  The  type 
of  oil  to  be  used  also  is  influenced  by  the  HLB  value.  Emulsifiers  with  HLB 
numbers  of  7  to  12  are  necessary  to  form  oil-in-water  emulsions  with  corn  or 
soybean  oils,  while  one  with  an  HLB  number  of  about  5  is  required  to  form 
an  oil-in-water  emulsion  with  cottonseed  oil  (Powrie  and  Tung,  1976). 

A  combination  of  two  or  more  emulsifiers  with  different  HLB  values 
often  is  necessary  to  form  a  stable  emulsion  (Powrie  and  Tung,  1976). 
Stability  at  a  given  HLB  value  varies  with  the  emulsifiers  used.  The  HLB 
values  of  emulsifier  combinations  can  be  found  by  multiplying  the  weight 
proportion  of  each  emulsifier  by  it's  HLB  value  and  then  adding  the  resulting 
numbers. 

Emulsion  types 

Emulsion  systems  can  be  divided  into  two  categories  (Lynch  and  Griffin, 
1974): 


1.  Those  consisting  of  droplets  of  oil  dispersed  throughout  an  aqueous 
medium  are  usually  referred  to  as  oil-in-water  (o/w)  emulsions. 

2.  Those  in  which  droplets  of  water  are  dispersed  throughout  an  oil  or 
fat  medium  are  termed  water-in-oil  (w/o)  emulsions. 

Most  food  emulsions,  including  mayonnaise,  are  of  the  o/w  type  (Lynch 
and  Griffin,  197*).  Mayonnaise,  though,  differs  from  other  o/w  emulsions 
since  large  quantities  of  oil  are  emulsified  in  a  relatively  small  amount  of 
water.  Mayonnaise,  therefore,  tends  to  be  more  unstable  than  many  other 
food  emulsions,  but  many  of  the  problems  associated  with  its  manufacture 
can  be  applied  to  other  products  (Corran,  19*3). 

Mayonnaise  formulation  varies  considerably  with  the  processor,  as  can 
be  seen  by  comparing  the  commercial  formulas  given  in  Table  1  (Corran, 
19*3)  and  Table  2  (Weiss,  1970).  There  are  a  number  of  factors  that 
influence  the  characteristics  of  mayonnaise.  Corran  (19*3)  listed  these 
factors  as: 

1.  egg  yolk 

2.  the  relative  volume  of  the  phases 

3.  the  emulsifying  effect  of  the  mustard 
*.  the  method  of  mixing 

5.  the  hardness  of  the  water 

6.  viscosity 


TABLE  1.    Mayonnaise  Composition 
(Corran,  1943) 


INGREDIENT 


Oil  75.0 

Salt  1.5 

Egg  yolk  8.0 

Mustard  1.0 

Water  3.5 

Vinegar  (6%  acetic  acid)  11.0 


10 
TABLE  2.    Mayonnaise  Composition 
(Weiss,  1970) 


INGREDIENT  WEIGHT  % 


Salad  oil  77.0-82.0 

Fluid  egg  yolk  5.3-5.8 

Vinegar  (100  gr.)  2.8-4.5 

Salt  1.2-1.8 

Sugar  1.0-2.5 

Mustard  flour'*  0.2-0.8 


Oleoresin  paprika      . 
Garlic,  onion,  spices 
Water  to  make  100% 


Egg  solids,  43%.   May  substitute  whole  or  fortified  egg,  fluid  or  dry, 
on  a  total  solids  basis. 


Spice  oils,  oleoresins  may  be  substituted. 
Optional  where  characteristic  color  is  desired. 


II 

EGG  YOLK  AND  EMULSIFICATION 
Egg  yolk,  itself  a  natural  o/w  emulsion  (Baldwin,  1977),  also  is  known  to 
be  an  efficient  emulsifying  agent  for  other  o/w  emulsions  (Corran,  1943). 
Intended  by  nature  to  produce  a  chick  (Stadelman,  1977),  the  yolk  is  a 
complex  mixture.  Although  it  may  vary,  yolk  generally  contains  15.7-16.6% 
protein,  31.8-35.5%  lipid,  0.2-1.0%  carbohydrate,  and  1.1%  ash  (Powrie, 
1977). 

Egg  yolk  fractions 

Egg  yolk  contains  about  28.3%  phospholipid  (largely  lecithin)  and  5.2% 
cholesterol  (Powrie,  1977)  for  a  lecithin/cbolesterol  ratio  of  about  5.4:1. 
Research  by  Corran  and  Lewis  (1924)  showed  that  lecithin  favored  an  o/w 
emulsion  while  cholesterol  favored  the  w/o  type.  Antagonistic  effects  were 
seen  when  both  substances  were  present.  Inversion  of  an  emulsion  occurred 
when  the  lecithin/cholesterol  ratio  was  8:1  when  both  compounds  were  in  the 
aqueous  phase,  and  at  the  1:1  to  2:1  ratio  when  the  cholesterol  was  present 
in  the  oil  phase. 

Sell  et  al.  (1935),  using  the  above  results  as  a  base,  added  both 
cholesterol  and  lecithin  to  mayonnaise  preparations.  The  cholesterol  had  no 
effect  on  mayonnaise  preparation  or  stability  when  added  in  small  amounts, 
although  the  emulsion  weakened  when  four  times  as  much  cholesterol  as  is 
normally  present  in  yolk  was  added.  Lecithin,  on  the  other  hand,  lowered 
consistency  and  decreased  stability  of  the  mayonnaise  in  every  case  tested. 
After  further  studies,  those  researchers  concluded  that  the  emulsification 
ability  of  egg  yolk  is  not  due  to  any  one  compound,  but  to  an  unstable 
complex  of  lecithin  and  protein  which  they  termed  "lecitho-protein". 


12 

Detrimental  effects  of  lecithin  on  egg  yolk  emulsification  capacity  also 
have  been  described  by  Yeadon  et  al.  (1958),  by  Varadarajulu  and 
Cunningham  (1972a),  and  by  Cunningham  (1975),  who  also  found  that  2  to  ** 
lecithin  significantly  increased  egg  yolk  viscosity,  but  decreased  yolk 
foaming  capacity  and  significantly  decreased  sponge  cake  volume. 

Chapin  (1951)  found  that  the  water  soluble/ether  insoluble  portion  of 
egg  yolk,  designated  as  the  livetin  portion,  possessed  poor  emulsifying 
properties.  However,  when  it  was  combined  with  the  water  insoluble  portion, 
designated  as  the  lipoprotein  portion,  emulsification  ability  was  increased. 
The  lipoprotein  alone  had  a  slightly  higher  emulsification  capacity  than  the 
combination  product.  Phospholipids  added  to  livetin  reduced  emulsification 
capacity. 

The  emulsification  ability  of  yolk  was  attributed  to  the  lipoprotein  and 
livetin  fractions  by  Vincent  et  al.  (1966),  who  suggested  that  those  fractions 
aided  in  emulsion  formation  by  reducing  surface  tension. 

Davey  et  al.  (1969)  studied  the  emulsifying  properties  of  three  crude 
egg  yolk  protein  fractions:  lipovitellin,  livetin,  and  lipovitellenin.  All  reduced 
initial  emulsion  drainage.  Lipovitellenin  alone  increased  subsequent  drainage, 
but  reduced  subsequent  drainage  when  combined  with  either  lipovitellin  or 
livetin.  Combinations  of  lipovitellin  and  livetin  increased  subsequent 
drainage.  Optimum  emulsion  stability  occurred  when  all  three  protein 
fractions  were  present.  Although  freezing  the  fractions  resulted  in  an 
emulsion  less  stable  than  those  made  from  fresh  yolk  or  fresh  combined 
fractions,  freezing  and  thawing  did  not  significantly  decrease  the  emulsifying 
ability  of  any  of  the  fractions  or  combinations  of  fractions. 


13 
Varadarajulu    and    Cunningham    (1972b)     also     studied    the     emulsifying 
properties   of    the    lipovitellin,    lipovitellenin,    and    livetin    fractions    of    yolk. 
Results  showed  that  none  of  the  fractions,  alone  or  in  combinations,  were  as 
good  emulsifiers  as  fresh  yolk. 

Liquid  egg  yolk 

Several  studies  determined  the  effect  of  the  hen's  dietary  fats  on  the 
emulsification  capacity  of  egg  yolk.  Jordan  et  al.  (1962)  found  that  the  type 
of  fat  in  the  hens'  diets  produced  no  significant  effect  on  emulsion 
separation.  Pankey  and  Stadelman  (1969)  also  found  no  significant  differences 
in  emulsification  capacity  of  egg  yolk  from  hens  fed  rations  supplemented 
with  corn,  soybean,  olive,  safflower,  or  hydrogenated  coconut  oils. 

Davey  et  al.  (1969)  found  that  native  yolk  gave  more  stable  emulsions 
after  60,  90,  and  120  minute  drainage  periods  than  emulsions  made  from 
recombined  lipovitellin,  livetin,  and/or  lipovitellenin.  Fresh  yolk  and  fresh 
recombined  fractions  yielded  more  stable  emulsions  than  frozen  yolk  or 
frozen  fractions. 

Varadarajulu  and  Cunningham  (1972a)  found  that  emulsification  capacity 
of  liquid  yolk  decreased  as  dilution  with  albumen  increased,  and  suggested 
that  this  was  due  to  the  lower  solids  content  or  to  interactions  between 
albumen  proteins  and  yolk  fractions.  They  recommended  that  commercial  yolk 
manufacturers  could  improve  their  products  by  keeping  albumen  content 
below  20%. 

Pasteurization  did  not  significantly  affect  emulsification  capacity  of 
commercial  fresh  yolk  containing  48  to  *9%  solids  (Varadarajulu  and 
Cunningham,    1972b).   Homogenization   after  pasteurization  improved    emulsion 


14 
stability.    Albumen-free  yolk  heated  to  61  °C  showed  no  significant  changes  in 
emulsion  stability,  but  emulsification  capacity  was  significantly  increased  by 
heating  the  yolk  to  63°C. 

These  same  researchers  (Varadarajulu  and  Cunningham,  1972c)  studied 
the  influence  of  breed,  strain,  and  age  of  bird  on  emulsification  capacity. 
Eggs  from  Brown  Leghorns  had  twice  the  emulsification  capacity  of  eggs 
from  White  Leghorns.  Emulsification  ability  of  eggs  decreased  as  birds  aged. 
Low  social  dominant  strains  of  both  the  Rhode  Island  Red  and  White  Leghorn 
breeds  produced  eggs  with  greater  emulsification  ability  than  eggs  from  the 
high  social  dominant  strains. 

Emulsifying  properties  of  pasteurized  and  stored  salted  (10%  NaCl) 
liquid  yolk  were  studied  by  Cotterill  et  al.  (1976).  In  the  high 
temperature-short  time  method,  samples  were  held  for  5  minutes  at 
temperatures  from  62°C  to  78°C,  while  in  the  low  temperature-long  time 
method,  samples  were  held  at  52°C  for  2  to  8  days.  Since  there  were  no 
emulsification  differences  between  yolks  treated  by  the  two  methods,  the 
authors  concluded  that  salted  yolk  could  be  pasteurized  at  high  temperatures 
without  damage  to  emulsifying  properties. 

Frozen  egg  yolk 

Frozen  yolk  containing  10%  NaCI  is  the  most  common  form  used  in 
mayonnaise  preparation  (Weiss,  1970).  The  added  salt  inhibits  microbial 
growth  during  thawing  (Weiss,  1970),  and  reduces  the  gelation  that  occurs  in 
frozen  plain  yolk  (Powrie  et  al.,  1963,  Meyer  and  Woodburn,  1965).  If  frozen 
yolk  is  allowed  to  thaw  evenly,  the  resulting  smooth,  heavy  paste  will  be 
about  the  right  consistency  for  high  quality  mayonnaise  (Kilgore,  1935). 


15 
Studies  on  the  use  of  frozen-thawed  yolk  in  mayonnaise  have  produced 
variable  results.  Kilgore  (1935)  reported  that  a  higher  percentage  of  frozen 
yolk  than  of  fresh  yolk  was  required  to  produce  a  mayonnaise  of  a  given 
viscosity.  Miller  and  Winter  (1951),  on  the  other  hand,  found  that  frozen  yolk 
produced  a  much  stiffer  mayonnaise  than  did  fresh  yolk.  Dilution  of  the 
thawed  yolk  was  necessary  before  acceptable  mayonnaise  could  be  produced. 
Johnson  (1970)  also  found  that  frozen  yolks  produced  a  stiffer  mayonnaise 
than  fresh  yolks,  and  sugared  frozen  yolk  produced  a  stiffer  mayonnaise  than 
salted  frozen  yolk.  Yolks  containing  both  salt  and  sugar  produced  the  least 
stable  mayonnaise. 

Davey  et  al.  (1969)  found  that  emulsions  prepared  with  fresh  yolk  were 
more  stable  than  those  prepared  with  frozen  yolk.  Johnson  (1970),  on  the 
other  hand,  found  that  frozen  yolk  gave  more  stable  emulsions;  however,  yolk 
containing  5%  NaCl  gave  the  most  stable  emulsions.  Several  studies,  which 
dealt  with  the  influence  of  freezing  on  emulsion  stability,  were  conducted  at 
about  that  same  time.  Jaax  and  Travnicek  (1968)  found  that  emulsion 
separation  increased  as  freezing  rate  increased  when  unpasteurized  yolk 
containing  no  additive  was  used.  Method  of  freezing  -  either  with  liquid 
nitrogen  or  in  a  household  freezer  -  had  no  significant  effect  on  stability  of 
emulsions  made  with  salted  yolks.  Palmer  et  al.  (1969a,  b)  studied  the 
influences  of  pasteurization,  freezing,  and  acidification  on  emulsification 
capacity  of  egg  yolk.  Freezing  and  storage  at  either  0°F  or  -10°F  for  up  to 
four  months  caused  no  loss  of  emulsification  ability  in  either  pasteurized  or 
unpasteurized  salted  yolks.  Freezing  at  -20°F  for  5  to  6  days  followed  by 
storage  at  0°F  resulted  in  no  loss  of  emulsifying  properties,  but  freezing  at 
-20°F    and    storage   at    -10°F    for    1    to    4    months    was    detrimental    to    both 


16 
pasteurized    and    unpasteurized    yolks.      Acidification     in     combination    with 
pasteurization,     followed     by     freezing     and     storage     also     damaged      the 
emulsification  ability  of  salted  yolk. 

Yolk  solids 

Although  yolk  solids  are  used  by  the  mayonnaise  industry,  few  studies 
have  been  conducted  on  their  functionality  in  mayonnaise.  Several 
investigators,  though,  have  studied  the  influence  of  dehydration  on  yolk 
emulsifying  properties. 

Chapin  (1951)  reported  that  spray-drying  increased  yolk  emulsification 
capacity;     however,  vacuum  drying  decreased  emulsifying  power. 

Carlin  (1955)  showed  that  rehydration  of  dried  yolk  with  acetic  acid 
instead  of  water  apparently  decreased  its  emulsification  capacity.  Data  on 
dried  yolks  produced  from  1949  to  1952  indicated  that  mayonnaise 
comparable  to  controls  could  be  produced  using  50  grain  acetic  acid,  but 
solids  from  1953  produced  a  similar  mayonnaise  when  either  50  or  100  grain 
vinegar  was  used.  The  author  concluded  that  either  50  or  100  grain  vinegar 
could  be  used  to  produce  mayonnaise  from  yolk  solids  available  at  that  time. 

Lyophilized  yolk  was  the  subject  of  a  study  by  Rolfes  et  al.  (1955).  The 
use  of  fresh,  frozen,  and  spray-dried  samples  for  comparison  indicated  that 
lyophilization  harmed  yolk  emulsifying  properties.  This  detrimental  effect 
was  less  when  the  yolk  was  diluted  before  freeze-drying. 

Schultz  et  al.  (1966)  reported  that  drying  of  yolk  resulted  in  a  rapid 
increase  in  extractability  of  the  "free  lipids"  which  were  extremely 
detrimental  to  the  emulsifying  capacity  of  yolk. 


17 
Zabik  (1969)  studied  the  emulsification  ability  of  freeze-dried  yolks,  as 
well  as  of  foam-spray-dried  yolks  and  spray-dried  yolks.  Frozen  yolks  were 
used  for  comparison.  Averages  of  emulsion  separation  at  three  pH  levels 
indicated  that  frozen  yolks  produced  the  most  stable  emulsions,  followed  by 
freeze-dried  and  foam-spray-dried.  Spray-dried  yolk  produced  the  least  stable 
emulsions. 

Varadarajulu  and  Cunningham  (1972b)  also  showed  that  spray -drying  was 
detrimental  to  yolk  emulsification  ability.  Initial  separation  was  significantly 
greater  for  spray-dried  yolk,  although  emulsion  separation  at  120  minutes 
was  similar  for  all  the  samples  tested.  The  authors  also  reported  apparent 
superior  emulsification  ability  with  samples  processed  in  a  Buflovak  drier 
than  with  yolk  dried  in  a  Rogers  drier,  but  the  differences  were  not 
significant. 

Determination  of  emulsification  capacity  and  stability 
Very  few  tests  have  been  devised  to  determine  emulsification  capacity 
of  egg  yolk  directly.  Pankey  and  Stadelman  (1969)  added  corn  oil  dropwise  to 
a  mixture  of  0.5  g  of  whole  yolk  and  15  ml  of  distilled  water  in  a 
microblender  cup  of  a  Waring  blender  until  emulsion  disruption  occurred. 
Emulsification  capacity  was  taken  as  the  amount  of  oil  that  could  be 
incorporated  before  disruption  occurred.  Cotterill  et  al.  (1976)  used  two 
types  of  phase  inversion  techniques  to  determine  emulsification  capacity.  In 
the  "monophasic"  titration,  10  g  of  yolk  and  81  g  of  corn  oil  were  mixed 
together  in  the  metal  bowl  of  a  Kitchen-Aid  mixer  to  form  a  w/o  emulsion. 
The  emulsion  then  was  back-titrated  with  water  to  the  inversion  point,  which 
was    determined    by    change    in    electrical     resistance.      In    the    "bi-phasic" 


18 
titration,  electrodes  on  opposite  sides  of  a  beaker  containing  20  g  of  yolk 
were  used  to  measure  resistance.  The  o/w  emulsion  was  titrated  with  oil 
until  resistance  went  rapidly  from  0  to  5x10  ohms,  which  was  considered 
the  inversion  point.  An  additional  10  ml  of  oil  then  was  added  to  convert  the 
emulsion  to  w/o.  This  emulsion  then  was  back-titrated  with  water  to  the 
inversion  point,  which  was  at  0  ohms.  The  amounts  of  water  or  oil  required 
to  reach  the  inversion  points  were  used  as  a  determination  of  emulsification 
capacity  in  all  tests.  A  method  similar  to  that  of  Pankey  and  Stadelman 
(1969)  was  reported  recently  by  Young  et  al.  (1983).  In  this  procedure,  15  g 
of  yolk,  20  ml  of  0.8M  acetic  acid,  20  ml  of  corn  oil,  and  0.5  g  of  NaCl  were 
mixed  in  an  Osterizer  blender  at  maximum  speed.  Corn  oil  was  added 
dropwise  from  a  cylinder  until  the  emulsion  broke,  as  determined  by  a  sudden 
drop  in  viscosity.  The  total  oil  (the  original  20  ml  plus  the  amount  added 
from  the  cylinder)  divided  by  the  weight  of  yolk  used  was  taken  as  the 
emulsification  capacity. 

Stability  of  emulsions  seems  to  be  a  more  common  way  to  test 
indirectly  yolk  emulsification  efficiency.  Numerous  methods  have  been 
developed  to  determine  stability  of  both  simple  emulsions  and  of  mayonnaise. 

Jordan  et  al.  (1962)  and  Davey  et  al.  (1969)  used  a  method  that  involved 
blending  15  g  of  yolk,  15  g  of  corn  oil,  and  85  g  of  deionized  water  in  a 
stainless  steel  blender  cup  at  28  to  29°C.  After  blending  1  minute  at  50 
volts  and  5  minutes  at  110  volts,  15  g  portions  were  transferred  to  graduated 
15  ml  centrifuge  tubes  and  placed  in  a  test  tube  rack.  Emulsion  separation 
was  recorded  after  30,  60,  90,  and  120  minutes  and  was  interpreted  as  an 
indication  of  stability. 


19 

Variations  on  the  above  procedure  have  been  used  by  several 
researchers.  Zabik  (1969)  adjusted  the  water  content  of  the  formula  to  allow 
for  moisture  previously  added  to  the  frozen-thawed  yolks,  increased  the 
speed  of  initial  homogenization  to  55  volts,  and  decreased  the  amount  of 
emulsion  placed  in  the  centrifuge  tubes  to  10  mis.  Varadarajulu  and 
Cunningham  (1972a)  modified  the  procedure  to  use  a  Virtis  homogenizer 
rather  than  a  blender.  Emulsion  separation  was  recorded  only  after  60  and 
120  minutes. 

A  procedure  similar  to  that  of  Varadarajulu  and  Cunningham  (1972a)  had 
previously  been  developed  by  Jaax  and  Travnicek  (1968).  Emulsions  consisting 
of  8.5  g  of  yolk,  U.O  g  of  corn  oil,  and  46  ml  of  deionized  water  were 
prepared  by  blending  for  90  seconds  in  a  Virtis  homogenizer  set  at  medium 
speed.  The  formed  emulsions  were  then  transferred  to  100  ml  graduated 
cylinders,  and  separation  was  recorded  every  30  minutes.  Total  separation 
was  recorded  at  the  end  of  3  hours.  Johnson  (1970)  also  used  this  basic 
procedure,  but  replaced  the  corn  oil  with  soybean  oil  and  recorded 
separation  for  *  hours. 

Kilgore  (1933b)  tested  mayonnaise  stability  by  shaking  a  sample  of  the 
emulsion  with  an  equal  weight  of  water,  pouring  the  solution  into  a 
graduated  cylinder,  and  allowing  it  to  stand  for  2»  hours.  The  amount  of 
creaming  was  used  as  the  measure  of  stability. 

Stability  of  mayonnaise  often  has  been  determined  by  simply  storing 
samples  at  room  temperature  until  visible  separation  occurred.  Kilgore 
(1933a)  stored  samples  at  room  temperature  for  1  year  before  determining 
the  amount  of  separation.  Chapin  (1951)  stored  emulsions  in  a  one-half  pint 
Mason  jar  at  approximately  21  °C.     The  length  of  time  required  for  the  first 


20 
appearance  of  water  was  taken  as  the  stability  measurement.    Johnson  (1970) 
evaluated   the  stability  of  mayonnaise  by  observing  the  presence  or  absence 
of   oil    separation    when   samples  were    stored  at  room  temperature   for  2,   *, 
and  6  weeks. 

Centrifuging  until  phase  separation  occurred  was  suggested  by  Bennett 
(19*7)  as  a  test  of  emulsion  stability.  Miller  and  Winter  (1951)  centrifuged  10 
g  samples  for  15  minutes  and  then  used  the  amount  of  liquid  separation  as  a 
measure  of  stability.  Rolfes  et  al.  (1955)  employed  an  International 
centrifuge  at  2000  rpm  for  15  minutes  to  test  mayonnaise  stability.  The 
percent  oil  separation,  determined  on  a  weight  basis,  was  taken  as  the 
measure  of  stability.  Varadarajulu  and  Cunningham  (1972a)  also  used  an 
International  centrifuge,  but  revised  the  test  conditions  to  5000  rpm  for  30 
minutes. 

RELATIVE  VOLUME  OF  THE  PHASES 
Mark    (1921)    studied    the    emulsification    of    oil    in    liquid    egg    yolk    by 
taking  samples  every   10  seconds  during  emulsion  formation  and  monitoring  oil 
dispersion  microscopically.     Four  conclusions  were  drawn  from  the  data: 

1.  If  the  proportion  of  egg  to  oil  was  kept  below  a  certain  maximum,  a 
stable  emulsion  could  always  be  formed  regardless  of  temperature  or  method 
of  beating. 

2.  If  the  amount  of  oil  exceeded  a  certain  minimum,  the  continuous 
phase  became  the  oil  and  no  permanent  emulsion  could  be  formed. 


21 

3.  If  the  proportion  of  egg  to  oil  was  kept  between  the  minimum  and 
maximum,  formation  of  a  stable  emulsion  became  dependent  on  variables  such 
as  temperature  and  mixing  procedure. 

4.  If  vinegar  was  used  to  dilute  the  egg,  the  amount  of  oil  that  could 
be  emulsified  permanently  increased  greatly  during  initial  addition  of  oil.  As 
emulsion  viscosity  increased,  the  maximum  amount  of  oil  that  could  be 
emulsified  approached  the  amount  emulsified  when  undiluted  egg  was  used. 

The  amount  of  oil  that  could  be  emulsified  in  a  given  amount  of  egg 
yolk  was  reported  by  Robinson  (1924)  to  depend  on  the  type  of  oil  being 
used.  Amounts  of  oil  that  could  be  emulsified  in  15  g  of  yolk  ranged  from 
296  g  for  pure  Italian  olive  oil  to  432  g  for  Wesson  oil.  The  amount  of  water 
present  also  was  cited  as  an  influence  on  the  amount  of  oil  that  could  be 
emulsified. 

Gray  and  Southwick  (1929)  found  that  the  consistency  of  mayonnaise 
decreased  rapidly  as  moisture  content  increased. 

Due  to  the  presence  of  "free"  water,  Kilgore  (1935)  considered  fresh 
yolk  to  be  too  light  in  body  to  produce  a  good  initial  emulsion.  The  author 
reported  that  some  means  of  holding  this  excess  moisture  must  be  utilized 
with  fresh  yolk  to  start  the  smooth,  fine-grained  emulsion  necessary  for  high 
quality  mayonnaise. 

Corran  (1943)  reported  that  the  usual  procedure  in  mayonnaise 
production  was  to  emulsify  the  total  amount  of  oil  in  a  small  amount  of  the 
aqueous  phase  before  addition  of  the  remainder  of  the.  aqueous  phase. 
Although  the  large  concentration  of  oil  tended  to  give  rise  to  a  w/o 
emulsion,  the  emulsifying  agents  prevented  this,  and  the  large  amount  of  oil 


22 
was  cited  as  a  major  factor  in  mayonnaise  formation.     He  also  reported  that 
addition  of  oil    to  all  of  the  aqueous  phase  resulted  in  an  emulsion  of  very 
low  viscosity. 

Lowe  (1955)  found  that  40  g  of  oil  could  be  emulsified  initially  in 
approximately  15  g  of  egg  yolk  when  seasonings  and  vinegar  were  added  to 
the  yolk.  These  data  indicated  that  mayonnaise  formed  most  readily  with  a 
small  quantity  of  oil. 

EMULSIFYING  EFFECT  OF  MUSTARD 

In  "1932  Kilgore  studied  the  emulsifying  effect  of  mustard  on 
mayonnaise.  Three  tests  were  used  to  evaluate  mustard:  1)  foaming  power  of 
a  mustard/water  solution,  2)  stability  of  oil  drops  on  the  surface  of  a 
mustard/water  solution,  and  3)  stability  of  simple  o/w  emulsions  using  a 
solution  of  mustard  and  water  as  the  water  phase  and  sole  emulsifying  agent. 
Results  showed  that  emulsion  stability  increased  as  the  mustard  level 
increased  up  to  4%.  When  oil  was  dropped  onto  the  surface  of  a  4%  solution 
of  mustard,  the  drops  stayed  completely  apart,  indicating  stabilization  due  to 
the  mustard.  In  the  third  experiment,  a  tt%  solution  of  mustard  formed  and 
maintained  a  fairly  heavy  emulsion.  The  author  concluded  that  mustard 
exerts  a  stabilizing  effect  on  emulsions. 

In  1933(a),  Kilgore  studied  the  effect  of  mustard  on  the  permanence  and 
consistency  of  mayonnaise.  Mustard  was  found  to  have  considerable  influence 
on  the  stability  of  mayonnaise.  Consistency  of  the  emulsion  was  found  to  be 
influenced  greatly  by  not  only  the  chemical  and  physical  properties  of 
mustard,  but  by  the  method  of  incorporating  mustard  into  the  mayonnaise. 


23 
After  determining  the  effects  of  mustard  on  mayonnaise  characteristics, 
Kilgore    (1934)    reported    three    methods    for    testing    mustard    to    be    used    in 
mayonnaise:        moisture    holding  power,   development    of    flavor,    and    keeping 
quality.    Characteristics  of  several  types  of  mustard  also  were  described. 

Corran  (1943)  studied  the  effect  of  mustard  on  oil/lime  water  mixtures 
that  resulted  in  w/o  emulsions  when  shaken.  Data  indicated  that  2.1%  fine 
mustard  flour  or  2.5%  coarse  mustard  flour  caused  inversion  of  the  emulsion 
to  o/w.  Further  tests  conducted  with  a  mobilometer  confirmed  that  mustard 
confers  a  measure  of  stability  to  mayonnaise. 

METHOD  OF  MIXING 

Robinson  (1924)  reported  that  more  oil  could  be  emulsified  when 
intermittent  mixing  was  used  than  when  the  beating  was  continuous.  Speed  of 
oil  addition  also  was  cited  as  a  factor  influencing  mayonnaise  production. 

Hall  and  Dawson  (1940)  tested  two  methods  of  emulsion  formation.  In 
the  American  method,  the  emulsifying  agent  and  acid  were  combined, 
followed  by  the  gradual  addition  of  oil.  In  the  compromise  method,  a  small 
amount  of  oil  was  first  added  to  the  emulsifying  agent,  followed  by  the 
addition  of  acid,  and  then  the  addition  of  the  remainder  of  the  oil.  Each 
method  was  tested  under  two  conditions  -  oil  was  added  either  from  a  height 
of  6  inches  above  the  emulsion  or  was  added  beneath  the  emulsion  surface. 
Results  showed  that  the  introduction  of  oil  beneath  the  emulsion  surface 
improved  stability,  consistency,  and  homogeneity  of  the  formed  emulsion.  The 
authors  also  found  the  compromise  method  to  produce  emulsions  superior  to 
those  produced  by  the  American  method.    The  best  emulsions  were  produced 


24 
when    the   compromise    method    with    addition    of    oil    beneath    the    emulsion 
surface  was  used. 

Corran  (1943)  found  that  the  stability  and  form  of  emulsions  was 
influenced  by  a  number  of  method-of-mixing  factors.  Those  factors  included 
the  amount  and  composition  of  the  aqueous  phase  added  during  the  first 
stage  of  mixing,  the  time  of  beating,  and  the  degree  of  agitation.  Results  of 
tests  conducted  by  that  author  indicated  that,  of  the  various  conditions 
tested,  a  beating  time  of  5  minutes  without  initial  addition  of  vinegar 
produced  the  most  viscous  mayonnaise. 

Lowe  (1955)  reported  that  the  kind  of  bowl  used  to  make  mayonnaise 
influenced  the  emulsion.  Placing  small  quantities  of  yolk  in  a  large  mixer 
bowl  was  cited  as  one  cause  of  failure  in  making  mayonnaise.  The  duration 
of  beating  and  resting  periods  had  a  measurable  influence  on  the  emulsion. 
The  addition  of  vinegar  at  various  stages  in  the  making  of  mayonnaise 
affected  the  consistency  of  the  mayonnaise. 

WATER  HARDNESS 
Water    hardness    was    cited    by    Corran    (1943)    as    a    minor    factor    in 
mayonnaise    production.     Calcium   salts,   as   well   as  salts   of   other   divalent 
metals,  tend  to  form  w/o  emulsions,  thereby  decreasing  mayonnaise  stability 
(Corran,  1943,  Lowe,  1955). 

VISCOSITY 
Viscosity    is     an     important     property    of    egg     yolk    to     be     used     for 
mayonnaise  manufacture.    Numerous  studies  have  been  conducted  on  egg  yolk 
viscosity.     Chapin   (1951)  suggested  that    the  "emulsifying  index",  which  was 


25 
based     on     final     emulsion     viscosity,    was     influenced     partially     by     initial 
emulsifier  viscosity.    Kilgore  (1935)  stated  that  frozen-defrosted  yolk  of  good 
quality  would  be  a  smooth  heavy  paste  which  was  about  the  right  consistency 
for  mayonnaise. 

According  to  Payawal  et  al.  (19*6),  native  yolk  containing  49  to  49.5% 
water  has  a  viscosity  of  approximately  800  centipoises  (c.p.s.).  Pasteurization 
temperatures  above  62.5°C  caused  a  considerable  increase  in  egg  yolk 
viscosity. 

Pearce  and  Lavers  (1949)  showed  that  freezing  resulted  in  an 
irreversible  increase  in  egg  yolk  viscosity.  Reduced  viscosity  was  noted  in 
defrosted  yolk  when  vigorous  mechanical  treatment  was  applied  prior  to 
freezing.  As  freezing  time  increased  from  0.2  to  39  hours,  a  progressive 
increase  in  viscosity  occurred.  Viscosity  of  yolk  also  was  found  to  increase 
as  defrosting  time  increased  from  0.03  to  24  hours. 

The  effects  of  freezing  on  yolk  gelation,  which  can  be  considered  a 
large  increase  in  viscosity,  was  studied  by  Lopez  et  al.  (1954).  Colloidal 
milling  of  the  egg  yolk  prior  to  freezing  inhibited  gelation  under  certain 
conditions.  Salt  (NaCl)  added  to  yolk  before  milling,  freezing,  and  frozen 
storage  produced  yolk  with  a  higher  degree  of  gelation  than  that  with  no 
NaCl,  while  emulsion  stabilizers  and  destabilizers  did  not  inhibit  gelation 
either  with  or  without  colloidal  milling.  None  of  the  substances  tested, 
including  trisodium  citrate,  trisodium  ethylenediaminetetracetate,  NaCl, 
sugars,  and  glycerol,  produced  a  normally  flavored  yolk  and  inhibited 
gelation.  Sugar,  NaCl,  and  glycerol  partially  prevented  yolk  gelation,  but 
resulted  in  marked  flavor  changes.  Quick  freezing  by  immersion  in  either  a 
dry-acetone-ice   mixture   or    in    liquid    nitrogen      partially    inhibited   gelation. 


26 

Decreased  yolk  gelation  was  associated  with  increased  freezing  rate,  and 
quick  freezing  combined  with  rapid  defrosting  further  reduced  yolk  gelation. 

The  effect  of  salt  (NaCl)  on  yolk  viscosity  was  studied  by  Jordan  and 
Whitlock  (1955).  Untreated  yolk  was  considerably  more  viscous  than  either 
egg  white  or  whole  egg  magma.  As  salt  levels  were  increased  from  1  to  5%, 
those  differences  in  consistency  were  found  to  become  increasingly  greater. 
Results  indicated  that  the  viscosity  ratio  between  the  yolk  containing  5* 
salt  and  the  untreated  yolk  was  greater  than  *  to  1. 

Marion  and  Stadelman  (1958)  also  found  that  the  addition  of  salt 
increased  the  viscosity  of  fresh,  unfrozen  yolk.  Gelation  was  reduced 
significantly  by  increases  in  both  freezing  and  defrosting  rates.  Several 
additives,  including  hexane,  NaCl,  and  sucrose,  were  found  to  effectively 
reduce  frozen  yolk  gelation. 

Powrie  et  ai.  (1963)  found  that  viscosity  change  in  frozen-thawed  yolk 
was  dependent  on  the  time-temperature  relationship  of  frozen  storage.  Salt, 
sugar,  and  cysteine  all  decreased  gelation  of  frozen  yolk.  Urea  caused  a 
definite  increase  in  native  yolk  viscosity,  with  a  urea  level  of  0.416 
moles/100  g  yolk  causing  the  yolk  to  gel  within  85  minutes. 

Increasing  age  of  eggs  resulted  in  decreased  yolk  viscosity  in  studies  by 
Meyer  and  Woodburn  (1965).  Cysteine-  and  water-treated  unfrozen  yolk  had 
similar  viscosities,  while  NaCl-treated  yolks  were  more  viscous  than  the 
control.  Sucrose  caused  the  most  reduction  in  viscosity.  Water  was  slightly 
less  effective  than  cysteine  in  inhibiting  gelation  in  frozen-defrosted  yolk, 
while  NaCl  was  the  most  effective  in  inhibiting  gelation  in  stored 
frozen-defrosted  yolk. 


27 

Jaax  and  Travnicek  (1968)  found  that  both  NaCl  and  sugar  reduced 
gelation  of  frozen-defrosted  yolk.  Yolk  frozen  in  a  freezer  was  more  viscous 
than  yolk  frozen  in  liquid  nitrogen,  and  liquid  nitrogen  was  less  effective  in 
retarding  gelation  in  treated  yolk  than  in  yolk  containing  no  additive. 

Palmer  et  al.  (1969a,  b)  found  that  pasteurization  did  not  change  the 
effect  of  frozen  storage  on  salted  yolks,  but  caused  a  slightly  increased 
viscosity  in  unfrozen  salted  yolk.  Viscosity  of  frozen-defrosted  yolks  stored 
below  -10°F  increased  as  shear  rate  decreased,  while  unfrozen  salted  yolk 
viscosity  was  independent  of  shear  rate.  Acidification  caused  a  considerable 
increase  in  viscosity  with  pasteurization  and  frozen  storage  each 
accentuating  that  increase. 

Studies  conducted  by  Davey  et  al.  (1969)  indicated  that  the  increased 
viscosity  of  frozen-defrosted  yolk  could  be  due  to  increased  viscosity  of  the 
lipovitellenin  fraction  as  a  result  of  freezing.  However,  results  for  this 
constituent  were  highly  variable. 

Scalzo  et  al.  (1970)  studied  viscosities  of  5  commercial  egg  products. 
They  showed  that  all  products,  including  yolk,  produced  a  linear  relationship 
between  shear  stress  and  shear  rate  at  temperatures  ranging  from  5  to  60°C. 
Viscosity  of  the  egg  products,  therefore,  was  concluded  to  be  independent  of 
shear  rate. 

Shear  rate  also  was  a  factor  studied  by  Chang  et  al.  (1970).  Viscosity 
of  native  yolk  with  52.5%  solids  decreased  as  shear  rate  increased.  Decreases 
in  viscosity  of  pasteurized  yolk  with  increased  shear  rate  also  were  noted. 
Thin  albumen  added  at  levels  up  to  20%  decreased  viscosity  of  native  yolk, 
and  increases  in  yolk  viscosity  due  to  heat  damage  were  reduced  with 
increasing  levels  of  albumen. 


28 
Palmer  et  al.  (1970)  studied  the  effects  of  heat  treatment  after  thawing 
on  gelation  in  frozen-defrosted  yolk.  Temperatures  of  45  to  55°C  applied  for 
1  hour  reduced  viscosity  of  white-free  yolk  and  commercial  plain,  sugared, 
and  salted  yolks  by  more  than  50%.  Temperatures  above  the  45  to  55°C 
range  resulted  in  protein  coagulation  and  increased  yolk  viscosity. 

Varadarajulu  and  Cunningham  (1972a,  b,  c)  found  that  yolk  viscosity 
decreased  by  approximately  80%  with  the  addition  of  10%  albumen,  and  by 
about  97%  when  25%  albumen  was  added.  Pasteurization  of  commercial  yolk 
did  not  affect  viscosity  significantly,  but  pasteurization  at  63  to  65°C  for  4 
minutes  of  laboratory  prepared  yolk  produced  an  increase  in  viscosity  that 
was  curvilinear  with  increasing  temperature.  Yolk  dried  in  a  Buflovak  drier 
was  significantly  less  viscous  than  that  dried  in  a  Rogers  drier.  Although  age 
of  bird  significantly  affected  yolk  viscosity,  breed  had  no  effect. 

Cunningham's  (1972)  study  of  the  viscosity  of  diluted  egg  yolk  showed 
that  yolk  with  53%  solids  had  a  viscosity  of  1600  c.p.s.  while  yolk  with  43% 
solids  had  a  viscosity  of  only  200  c.p.s.  Dilution  with  water  rather  than 
albumen  produced  no  significant  differences  in  viscosity. 


29 

MATERIALS  AND  METHODS 

The  infertile  eggs  used  for  the  fresh  liquid  and  frozen  yolk  studies  were 
collected  from  caged  Leghorn  layers  housed  at  the  Kansas  State  University 
Poultry  Farm.  Eggs  were  stored  in  a  commercial  size  walk-in  cooler  at  4°C  + 
1°C  for  5  days  before  being  used.  Plain  dried  yolk  and  free-flow  dried  yolk 
were  obtained  from  Milton  G.  Waldbaum  Co.  (Wakefield,  Nebraska).  Low 
viscosity  dried  yolk  was  obtained  from  National  Egg  Products  Corp.  (Social 
Circle,  Georgia).  All  dried  yolk  samples  were  stored  in  a  commercial  size 
walk-in  freezer  at  -20°C  and  were  thawed  at  4°C  +_  1°C  in  a  commercial  size 
walk-in  cooler  for  2*  hours  before  being  used. 

Egg  yolk  preparation 

Liquid  and  frozen  samples 

Egg  components  were  separated  using  a  household  hand  separator.  The 
yolk  was  gently  rolled  on  absorbant  paper  towel  to  remove  adhering  albumen 
and  positioned  near  the  towel  edge.  The  vitelline  membrane  was  ruptured  and 
the  yolk  liquid  collected  in  3500  ml  plastic  jugs.  Albumen  from  the  same  eggs 
was  blended  in  a  Waring  blender  and  approximately  28*  (by  weight)  was 
incorporated  into  the  yolk  using  a  Kitchen  Aid  mixer,  Model  K*5SS,  (Hobart 
Corp.,  Troy,  Ohio)  with  a  wire  whip  attachment  set  at  speed  1  for  2  minutes. 
Solids  content  of  the  yolk  was  determined  by  the  overnight  atmospheric  oven 
method  (Gorman,  1977)  to  verify  that  the  solids  content  had  been  reduced  to 
the  commercially  required  *3%. 

Liquid  yolk  samples  The  diluted  yolk  was  divided  into  160  g  samples  and 
treated  with  iodized   NaCl,  uniodized  NaCl,  or  KC1  (No  Salt,  Norcliff  Thayer, 


30 
Inc.,  Tuckahoe,  New  York).  Each  type  of  salt  was  added  at  the  5,  10,  and 
15%  levels.  One  sample  containing  0%  salt  was  also  prepared.  A  Kitchen  Aid 
mixer,  Model  K45SS,  with  wire  whip  attachment  was  used  to  incorporate  the 
salt.  All  samples,  including  the  0%  salt,  were  mixed  at  speed  1  for  1  minute, 
the  beater  was  stopped  and  the  bowl  scraped  down,  and  mixing  was  then 
resumed  at  speed  1  for  an  additional  1.5  minutes.  The  finished  samples  were 
stored  in  16  oz.  plastic  screw-top  sample  jars  (Nalgene)  at  4°C  for  not  more 
than  24  hours.  Samples  were  allowed  to  sit  at  room  temperature  (27°C  +  1°C) 
for  at  least  1  hour  before  testing. 

Frozen  yolk  samples  Approximately  1000  ml  of  prepared  yolk  was 
weighed  into  the  bowl  of  the  Kitchen  Aid  mixer.  Ten  %  iodized  NaCl  was 
incorporated  into  the  yolk  by  mixing  with  the  wire  whip  at  speed  1  for  1 
minute,  stopping  the  mixer,  scraping  the  bowl,  and  mixing  an  additional  1.5 
minutes  at  speed  1.  Fifty  g  samples  of  the  salted  yolk  were  weighed  into  75 
ml  screw-top  glass  sample  jars  and  the  jars  were  capped.  The  jars  were  then 
placed  in  a  household  type  upright  freezer  at  -10°C  +_  2°C.  Four  jars  (200  ml 
total)  were  stored  for  each  of  30,  60,  and  90  days.  Four  jars  were  placed  in 
the  freezer  for  2*  hours  and  were  then  removed  and  tested.  Those  samples 
were  labeled  0  days  frozen  storage.  Frozen  samples  were  placed  in  a  water 
bath  at  37°C  +  1°C  for  30  minutes,  then  allowed  the  stand  at  room 
temperature  (27°C  +  1°C)  for  20  minutes  before  testing. 

Dried  yolk  samples 

Rehydration  of  the  yolk  samples  was  accomplished  using  a  Kitchen  Aid 
mixer,  Model  K45SS,  with  a  wire  whip  attachment.  One  hundred  and  fifty  g 
of-  dried  yolk  and  190  g  of  distilled  water  were  weighed  into  the  bowl.    The 


31 
contents  were  then  mixed  at  speed  1  for  1  minute,  the  mixer  was  stopped 
and  the  bowl  scraped,  and  mixing  was  resumed  at  speed  1  for  an  additional  1 
minute.  The  weight  of  rehydrated  yolk  was  determined  and  10%  iodized  NaCl 
was  then  incorporated  by  mixing  at  speed  1  for  1  minute,  stopping  the  mixer 
and  scraping  the  bowl,  and  then  mixing  at  speed  1  for  additional  1.5  minutes. 
The  rehydrated,  salted  yolk  samples  were  placed  in  1  qt.  Mason  jars  which 
were  kept  capped  while  tests  were  being  conducted. 

Emulsification  capacity 

A  modification  of  the  procedure  described  by  Young  et  al.  (1983)  was 
used  to  determine  emulsification  capacity.  Fifteen  g  of  salted  yolk  and  20  ml 
of  5%  acetic  acid  were  mixed  in  an  Osterizer  blender  for  10  seconds  at 
speed  12.  Twenty  ml  of  soybean  oil  (Wesson)  were  added  and  the  mixture 
blended  for  20  seconds.  More  oil  was  then  added  dropwise  from  a  100  ml 
graduated  burette  until  a  sudden  drop  in  viscosity  occurred,  indicating  a 
"broken"  emulsion.  The  quotient  obtained  by  dividing  the  total  amount  of  oil 
(the  oil  added  from  the  burette  plus  the  original  20  ml)  by  the  g  of  yolk  was 
taken  as  the  emulsification  capacity. 

Viscosity 

Viscosity  of  the  salted  yolk  samples  was  determined  at  room 
temperature  (27°C  +  1°C)  with  a  Brookfield  RVF  Model  Syncro-lectric 
Viscometer.  Conditions  were  spindle  5  and  20  r.p.m.  for  all  liquid  yolk 
samples  and  for  the  0  days  frozen  storage,  spindle  7  and  10  r.p.m.  for  the 
30,  60,  and  90  frozen  storage,  and  spindle  7  and  4  r.p.m.  for  all  dried 
samples.    Measurements  were  corrected  and  reported  as  centipoise. 


32 


Mayonnaise  preparation  and  testing 

Mayonnaise  was  prepared  using  a  modification  of  the  formula  and 
procedure  described  by  Miller  and  Winter  (1950).  The  mayonnaise  formula 
consisted  of: 

Salted  egg  yolk  16.0  g 

Vinegar  (5%  acetic  acid)  30.0  ml 

Sugar  3.0  g 

Dry  mustard  (McCormick)  1.0  g 

Soybean  oil  (Wesson)  237.0  ml 

The  yolk,  sugar,  mustard,  and  10  ml  of  vinegar  were  mixed  for  0.5 
minutes  in  a  Kitchen  Aid  mixer,  Model  K45SS,  set  at  speed  8.  Forty  ml  of  oil 
were  then  added  from  a  100  ml  graduated  burette  over  a  6  minute  period, 
followed  by  the  addition  of  10  ml  of  vinegar  in  0.5  minutes.  Mixing  was 
continued  for  0.5  minutes  without  the  addition  of  ingredients.  The  beater 
was  shut  off,  and  the  mixture  was  allowed  to  rest  for  1  minute.  After 
scraping  down  the  bowl,  beating  was  resumed  at  speed  8,  and  the  remaining 
197  ml  of  oil  were  added  from  a  500  ml  separatory  funnel  over  a  6  minute 
period.  The  final  10  mi  of  vinegar  were  added  in  1  minute.  After  scraping 
down  the  bowl,  the  emulsion  was  mixed  on  speed  1  for  0.5  minutes.  The 
finished  mayonnaise  was  transferred  to  a  i  pint  Mason  jar  using  a  funnel, 
and  the  jars  were  capped  and  allowed  to  stand  at  room  temperature  (27°C  + 
1°C)  for  20  to  2*  hours  before  testing. 


33 

Apparent  mayonnaise  viscosity  was  determined  at  room  temperature 
(27°C  +_  1°C)  by  a  Brookfield  RVF  Model  Syncro-lectric  Viscometer  (spindle 
7,  4  r.p.m.).  Results  were  corrected  and  reported  in  centipoise.  Spread  of 
mayonnaise  was  determined  by  the  line  spread  test  described  by  Grawemeyer 
and  Pfund  (19*3)  and  Griswold  (1962).  In  this  test,  a  diagram  such  as  that 
shown  in  Figure  2  was  placed  beneath  a  level  glass  plate.  Each  numbered 
circle  was  separated  by  3.175  mm.  A  metal  cylinder  (22.225  mm  high)  with  an 
inside  diameter  of  50.800  mm  was  placed  directly  over  the  smallest  circle, 
filled  with  sample,  and  leveled  off  with  a  spatula.  The  cylinder  was  carefully 
lifted  off  and  the  mayonnaise  was  allowed  to  spread  for  2  minutes.  After  the 
spread  period,  readings  were  taken  at  k  widely  separated  points  representing 
the  limits  reached  by  the  mayonnaise.  The  average  of  the  4  readings  was 
taken  as  the  number  of  3.175  mm  units  the  mayonnaise  spread  at  room 
temperature  in  2  minutes. 

Stability  of  the  mayonnaise  was  determined  by  incubating  the  samples 
at  *0°C  _+  1°C  until  the  emulsion  broke.  A  broken  emulsion  was  taken  as  the 
point  at  which  oil  became  visible  at  the  top  of  the  emulsion,  giving  the 
mayonnaise  a  "curdled"  appearance.  Stability  was  recorded  as  the  days  at 
40°C  required  for  an  emulsion  to  break. 

Standard  plate  counts  (standard  plate  count  agar)  were  performed 
before  and  after  incubation  to  determine  if  a  significant  increase  in  bacteria 
occurred.  Mold  and  yeast  counts  (potato  dextrose  agar)  were  also  performed 
before  and  after  incubation  to  determine  if  a  significant  increase  in  mold  or 
yeast  occurred. 

Data  were  statistically  analyzed  by  analysis  of  variance  and  by 
Duncan's  Multiple  Range  Test. 


34 


FIGURE  2.    Diagram  of  concentric  circles  used  beneath  a  glass 
plate  to  measure  line  spread. 


J5 


36 

RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSION 

LIQUID  YOLK 

Viscosity 

The  effects  of  salt  type  and  level  on  viscosity  of  liquid  yolk  are 
illustrated  in  Figure  3,  while  the  corresponding  treatment  means  are  shown 
in  Table  3  (Appendix). 

Salt  type  was  found  to  have  a  significant  (P>0.05)  effect  on  viscosity  of 
liquid  yolk.  Table  4  (Appendix)  shows  the  viscosity  means  for  each  of  the  3 
salts.  Uniodized  NaCl  caused  the  largest  increase  in  viscosity,  while  KC1 
produced  the  least  increase.  Iodized  NaCl  caused  an  intermediate  increase  in 
viscosity. 

Salt  level  was  also  found  to  have  a  significant  (P>0.05)  effect  on 
viscosity  of  liquid  yolk.  Table  5  (Appendix)  shows  the  viscosity  means  for 
each  of  the  3  levels.  The  5%  level  produced  the  least  increase  in  viscosity, 
the  10%  level  caused  an  intermediate  increase,  and  the  15%  level  produced 
the  largest  viscosity  increase. 

The  increase  in  the  viscosity  of  liquid  yolk  upon  the  addition  of  NaCl 
has  also  been  reported  by  Jordan  and  Whitlock  (1955),  Scalzo  et  al.  (1970), 
and  Johnson  (1970).  Jordan  and  Whitlock  (1955)  hypothesized  that  NaCl  added 
to  yolk  tended  to  cause  the  lipovitellin  to  take  up  water  which  in  turn 
increased  the  particle  size  with  a  consequent  increase  in  apparent  viscosity. 
The  differences  in  viscosity  due  to  the  salts  used  in  this  study  might  be 
explained  in  terms  of  the  effects  of  solutes  on  water.  Bone  (1973)  stated 
that  "When  a  solute  is  added  to  water,  several  things  happen.  First,  the 
concentration  of  water  is  reduced,  and  second,  the  interaction  of  the  solute 


37 


FIGURE  3.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  salt  type  and  level 
on  viscosity  of  liquid  yolk. 


10 

9 

^■N 

8 

CO 

Q_ 

C3 

7 

N-^ 

CM 

ft 

•"" 

x 

b< 

>- 

I— 

CO 

4 

C3 

C3 

CO 

3' 

■  s  NaCI   (No  l2> 

38 
■ 

•=NaCI  (l2> 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

*=KCI 

4h 

X=  07.  SALT 

i 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

m 

M 

m 

M 

m 

m 

m 

§ 

m 

m 

m 

m 

a 

m 

• 
• 
• 
• 

.* 

/ 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

* 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

•  j 

•  j 

m 
•                * 

If       / 

M 
M 
m 
M 

1 
/              / 

J             / 

Jt           / 
^^         / 
/ 

/ 

t 

/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 

* 

«    ^ 

5  10 

SALT   (%) 


s 


39 
with  the  water  may  break  or  increase  the  water  structure."  Ions  which  are 
smail  and/or  multivalent,  such  as  Na  ,  tend  to  have  strong  electric  fields  and 
are  considered  net  structure  formers  (Fennema,  1976).  Large  and  monovalent 
ions,  including  K  ,  CI  ,  and  I  ,  tend  to  disrupt  the  normal  water  structure 
and  are  termed  net  structure  breakers  (Fennema,  1976).  The  3  salts  tested  in 
this  experiment  all  provided  CI"  ions.  The  differences  in  yolk  viscosity 
increases  between  the  3  salts,  therefore,  could  be  due  to  the  Na+,  K+,  and  I" 
ions.  The  addition  of  any  of  the  salts  would  theoretically  cause  dehydration 
of  the  egg  proteins.  When  the  uniodized  NaCl  was  used,  the  strong  net 
structure  forming  ability  of  the  Na+  ion  would  compensate  for  the  extra 
water  split  off  by  dehydration  by  binding  with  that  water.  With  the  loss  of 
the  water  to  the  Na  ,  the  dehydrated  proteins  would  be  able  to  associate, 
and  the  large  protein  aggregate  thus  formed  would  then  cause  the  increased 
viscosity.  The  difference  between  the  uniodized  and  iodized  NaCl  could 
possibly  be  attributed  to  the  I"  ion.  The  iodized  NaCl  would  provide  2 
structure  breaking  ions  (Cl"  and  I"),  which  would  result  in  less  of  the  extra 
water  being  bound.  Although  the  dehydrated  proteins  would  still  aggregate, 
the  increased  amount  of  unstructured  water  would  result  in  less  of  a 
viscosity  increase.  Since  both  ions  from  the  KC1  tend  to  be  structure 
breakers,  the  extra  water  from  the  dehydrated  proteins  would  be  even  less 
structured  than  with  either  of  the  NaCl  salts,  resulting  in  the  lower  viscosity 
increase. 

A  noticeable  change  in  yolk  color  occurred  upon  addition  of  any  of  the 
3  salts.  Yolk  containing  either  iodized  or  uniodized  NaCl  became  dark 
yellow,  while  yolk  containing  KC1  became  a  deep  yellow-orange  color.  This 
change  in  yolk  color  produced  no  noticeable  difference  in  mayonnaise  color. 


w 

Jordan  and  Whitlock   (1955)  and   Jaax   and  Travnicek   (1968)  also  reported  a 
darkening  in  yolk  color  upon  addition  of  NaCl. 

Emulsification  capacity 

The  effects  of  salt  type  and  level  on  liquid  yolk  emulsification  capacity 
are  illustrated  in  Figure  4,  while  the  corresponding  treatment  means  are 
shown  in  Table  6  (Appendix). 

The  emulsification  capacity  of  the  0%  salt  sample  was  11.25.  This  is 
comparable  to  the  value  of  11.10  +  0.39  reported  by  Young  et  al.  (1983).  The 
addition  of  any  of  the  3  salts  at  even  the  5%  level  was  found  to  dramatically 
reduce  the  emulsification  capacity  of  the  liquid  yolk. 

Table  7  (Appendix)  shows  the  treatment  means  for  the  effect  of  salt 
type  on  emulsification  capacity  of  liquid  yolk.  No  significant  (P>0.05) 
differences  in  emulsification  capacity  between  yolk  treated  with  iodized 
NaCl  and  that  treated  with  KC1  were  found  at*  any  of  the  3  levels  of  salt 
addition.  Uniodized  NaCl  caused  a  significant  (P>0.05)  decrease  in 
emulsification  capacity  with  a  mean  of  6.53. 

Table  8  (Appendix)  shows  the  treatment  means  for  the  effect  of  salt 
level  on  emulsification  capacity  of  liquid  yolk.  Salt  level  was  found  to  have 
a  significant  (P>0.05)  effect  on  emulsification  capacity.  The  5%  level  caused 
the  least  reduction  in  emulsification  capacity,  followed  by  the  10%  level. 
The  15%  level  caused  the  greatest  reduction  in  emulsificaton  capacity. 

The  emulsifying  properties  of  egg  yolk  are  due  to  the  presence  of 
protein  and  lipoprotein  complexes  (Sell  et  al.,  1935).  As  suggested  earlier, 
the  addition  of  NaCl  or  KC1  probably  caused  a  dehydration  of  those 
complexes,  which  in  turn  could  influence  their  emulsifying  properties.     This 


»1 


FIGURE  4.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  salt  type  and  level 
on  emulsification  capacity  of  liquid  yolk. 


42 


11 

llOi 

£ 

"5- 

l4' 
eg 

S  2i 


X  =  0  7.  SALT 
■  =  NaCI  (No  l2) 

•  =  NaCI  (l2) 

*  =  KCI 


T 


■  r 

10  15 

SALT    C/.) 


»3 

might  account  for  the  decrease  in  emulsification  capacity  of  the  liquid   yolk 
upon  the  addition  of  the  3  salts. 

Mayonnaise  tests 

The  effects  of  salt  type  and  level  on  apparent  mayonnaise  viscosity  are 
illustrated  in  Figure  5,  while  the  corresponding  treatment  means  are  shown 
in  Table  9  (Appendix).  The  effects  of  salt  type  and  level  on  mayonnaise 
spread  are  illustrated  in  Figure  6,  with  the  corresponding  treatment  means 
being  shown  in  Table  10  (Appendix). 

Analysis  of  the  Brookfield  viscometer  data  indicated  that  salt  type  had 
a  significant  (P>0.05)  effect  on  apparent  mayonnaise  viscosity  (Table  11, 
Appendix).  Mayonnaise  made  with  KC1  had  the  lowest  apparent  viscosity  at 
each  of  the  3  levels,  followed  by  mayonnaise  made  with  uniodized  NaCl. 
Mayonnaise  made  with  iodized  NaCl  had  the  highest  apparent  viscosity  at 
each  of  the  3  levels. 

Analysis  of  variance  of  the  line  spread  data  indicated  that  there  was  no 
significant  (P>0.05)  difference  in  spread  between  mayonnaise  made  with 
uniodized  NaCl  and  that  made  with  KC1  (Table  12,  Appendix).  Further 
analysis  by  Duncan's  Multiple  Range  Test  (Table  10,  Appendix)  showed  that 
this  was  true  only  at  the  5  and  15%  levels.  At  the  10%  level,  Duncan's 
Multiple  Range  Test  indicated  that  there  was  no  significant  (P>0.05) 
difference  in  spread  between  mayonnaise  made  with  KCL  and  that  made  with 
iodized  NaCl. 

Salt  level  had  a  significant  (P>0.05)  effect  on  both  apparent  viscosity 
and  spread  of  mayonnaise  (Tables  13  and  14,  Appendix).  Overall,  mayonnaise 
with    10%   salt    had    the    highest    mean    Brookfield    viscosity    value,    and    the 


** 


FIGURE  5.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  salt  type  and  level 
on  apparent  mayonnaise  viscosity. 


45 


50i 
45i 


^40i 

DO 

"35i 

CO 


30. 
25i 


CO 

S20« 
00 


15« 
Id 
5i 


„-*-' 


X  =  0%  SALT 
■  =  NaCI    (No  l2) 
•=NaC!  (I2) 
*=KCI 


,-'* 
^*~ 


T 


T 


10 

SALT    <*) 


T 

15 


*6 


FIGURE  6.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  salt  type  and  level 
on  mayonnaise  spread. 


47 


10- 

&8i 
=  7i 

|6' 

C051 

UJ 

2i 

1. 


X=0/.  SALT 

■  =  NaCI  (No  l2) 

•=NaCI  (l2) 
*=KCI 


l 1 r 

5  10  15 

SALT  (/.) 


48 
lowest  mean  spread;  mayonnaise  with  15%  salt  had  an  intermediate  mean 
Brookfield  viscosity  value  as  well  as  an  intermediate  mean  spread,  and 
mayonnaise  with  5*  salt  had  the  lowest  mean  Brookfield  viscosity  value  and 
the  highest  mean  spread.  A  general  trend  was  observed  with  mayonnaise 
made  with  either  KC1  or  uniodized  NaCl.  As  the  level  of  either  of  those 
salts  was  increased  from  5  to  15%,  apparent  viscosity  of  the  mayonnaise 
increased.  Iodized  NaCl  did  not  follow  this  trend  however;  the  large  increase 
in  apparent  viscosity  which  occurred  in  mayonnaise  made  with  10%  iodized 
NaCl  was  followed  by  a  decrease  in  apparent  viscosity  for  mayonnaise  made 
with  15%  iodized  NaCl.    The  reason  for  this  increase/decrease  is  not  known. 

The  effects  of  salt  type  and  level  on  mayonnaise  stability  are 
illustrated  in  Figure  7,  while  the  corresponding  treatment  means  are  shown 
in  Table  15  (Appendix). 

Both  salt  type  and  salt  level  were  found  to  effect  mayonnaise  stability 
(Tables  16  and  17,  Appendix).  Overall,  uniodized  NaCl  produced  mayonnaise 
with  the  highest  mean  stability,  followed  by  iodized  NaCl.  KC1  produced 
mayonnaise  with  the  lowest  mean  stability.  Mayonnaise  containing  15%  salt 
had  the  highest  mean  stability  at  13.*  days,  followed  by  10%  salt  at  7.9 
days,  and  5%  salt  at  4.6  days. 

When  the  3  salts  were  compared  at  each  of  the  3  levels,  no  significant 
(P>0.05)  difference  in  stability  was  found  at  the  5%  level  for  any  of  the 
salts.  There  was  no  significant  (P>0.05)  difference  in  stability  between 
mayonnaise  made  with  10%  uniodized  NaCl  and  that  made  with  10%  iodized 
NaCl,  but  mayonnaise  made  with  10%  KC1  had  a  significantly  (P>0.05)  lower 
stability.  At  the  15%  level,  though,  there  was  no  significant  (P>0.05) 
difference   in  stability   of  mayonnaise    made   with    KC1   or    iodized    NaCl,  but 


1*9 


FIGURE  7.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  salt  type  and  level 
on  mayonnaise  stability. 


GO 


15i 

14i 

13- 

12. 

11i 

10- 

9- 

8- 

7i 

6. 

5- 

4- 

3-X 
2- 


50 


/         t 


X  =  0/.  SALT 
■  =  NaCI    (No  l2> 
•  =  NaCI  (l2) 
•=KCI 


■  r         r 

5  10  15 

SALT    (X.) 


51 
mayonnaise  made  with  15*  uniodized  NaCl  had  a  significantly  (P>0.05)  higher 
stability. 

Krantz  and  Gordon  (1928)  found  that  NaCl  stabilized  some  emulsions.  In 
work  conducted  with  emulsions  stabilized  by  casein,  Seifriz  (1935)  found  that 
NaCl  tended  to  stabilize  oil-in-water  emulsions,  but  had  no  influence  on 
water-in-oil  emulsions.  Lowe  (1955)  suggested  that  the  effect  of  NaCl  on 
emulsion  stability  would  probably  depend  on  both  the  emulsifier  and  the 
concentration  of  the  NaCl.  Data  from  this  study  showed  that  addition  of  any 
of  the  salts  at  even  the  5%  level  resulted  in  a  significant  (P>0.05)  increase 
in  stability  over  mayonnaise  made  with  0*  salt.  Lowe  (1955)  also  found  that 
salt  (NaCl)  increased  mayonnaise  stability. 

FROZEN  YOLK 

Viscosity 

The  effect  of  frozen  storage  time  on  salted  yolk  apparent  viscosity  is 
illustrated  in  Figure  8,  while  the  corresponding  treatment  means  are  shown 
in  Table  18  (Appendix). 

Storage  of  salted  yolk  at  -10°C  for  even  24  hours  (0  days)  was  found  to 
result  in  a  considerable  increase  in  apparent  viscosity  over  fresh  salted  yolk. 
Apparent  viscosity  of  salted  yolk  stored  30  days  was  approximately  three 
times  greater  than  that  stored  24  hours.  There  was  no  significant  (P>0.05) 
difference,  though,  between  yolk  stored  30  and  60  days.  Yolk  stored  at 
-10°C  for  90  days  had  a  significantly  (P>0.05)  higher  apparent  viscosity  than 
any  other  treatment.  Palmer  et  al.  (1969a)  also  reported  increases  in 
viscosity  of  10*  salted  yolk  stored  at  -10°F  over  a  period  of  4  months. 
Powrie   et  al.  (1963)  suggested  that  viscosity  changes  in  thawed  yolk   under 


52 


FIGURE  8.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  frozen  storage  time 
on  apparent  viscosity  of  salted  yolk. 


16- 

14- 

£12- 

SlO- 

%  8— 

»— 
55  2- 

|1= 

Mz 

.6- 


53 


X=  LIQUID  YOLK 


30  60 

DAYS    FROZEN    STORAGE 


T 
90 


54 
conditions   of   constant    thawing    rate    were    the    result    of    protein    structural 
alterations    occurring    in    the    frozen    state    of    yolk.      Davey    et    al.    (1969) 
suggested    that    increased    apparent   viscosity    of   the    lipovitellenin    fraction 
after  freezing  was  the  basis  for  increased  viscosity  of  frozen  native  yolk. 

Emulsification  capacity 

The  effect  of  frozen  storage  time  on  emulsification  capacity  of  salted 
yolk  is  illustrated  in  Figure  9,  with  the  corresponding  treatment  means  being 
shown  in  Table  19  (Appendix). 

Storage  of  salted  yolk  at  -10°C  for  2*  hours  (0  days)  resulted  in  a 
reduction  in  emulsification  capacity  to  6.39  from  6.85  for  fresh  liquid  yolk 
with  10%  iodized  NaCl.  Storage  at  -10°C  for  60  days  reduced  the 
emulsification  capacity  to  6.10,  which  was  not  significantly  (P>0.05) 
different  from  the  emulsification  capacity  of  6.06  for  yolk  stored  90  days. 
Thirty  days  of  frozen  storage  resulted  in  yolk  with  the  lowest  emulsification 
capacity  at  5.92,  but  this  was  not  significantly  (P>0.05)  different  from  yolk 
stored  90  days.  Freezing  of  biological  materials  such  as  egg  yolk  results  in 
pure  water  being  removed  to  form  ice  crystals  (Meryman,  1956).  This  causes 
dehydration  of  the  proteins,  and  an  increase  in  the  concentration  of  salts 
(Powrie  et  al.,  1963).  Powrie  et  al.  (1963)  further  suggested  that  the 
consequent  changes  in  water  structure  due  to  dehydration  and  salt 
concentration  increase  could  allow  for  rearrangement  and  aggregation  of  the 
yolk  lipoproteins.  This  rearrangement  and  aggregation  could  influence  the 
emulsification  capacity  of  the  yolk.  The  reason  why  emulsification  capacity 
decreased  during  the    first    30    days  of  frozen  storage,    increased  during    the 


55 


FIGURE  9.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  frozen  storage  time 
on  emulsification  capacity  of  salted  yolk. 


56 


X=LIQUID  YOLK 


^81 


7i 


s» 


S5i 

I4' 

o 


0     30     60     90 
DAYS  FROZEN  STORAGE 


57 
second  30  days,  and  then  decreased  slightly  during  the  last  30  days  of  frozen 
storage,  though,  is  unclear. 

Mayonnaise  tests 

The  effect  of  frozen  storage  time  on  apparent  mayonnaise  viscosity  is 
illustrated  in  Figure  10,  while  the  corresponding  treatment  means  are  shown 
in  Table  20  (Appendix).  The  effect  of  frozen  storage  time  on  mayonnaise 
spread  is  illustrated  in  Figure  11,  with  the  corresponding  treatment  means 
being  shown  in  Table  21  (Appendix). 

Mayonnaise  made  from  yolk  stored  at  -10°C  for  60  days  had  a 
significantly  (P>0.05)  higher  apparent  viscosity  than  that  made  from  any 
other  frozen  yolk  sample.  No  significant  (P>0.05)  difference  in  apparent 
viscosity  was  found  between  mayonnaise  made  from  yolk  stored  0,  30,  or  90 
days.  Line  spread  data  showed  that  yolk  stored  60  days  produced  mayonnaise 
with  a  significantly  (P>0.05)  lower  spread  than  any  other  sample.  No 
significant  (P>0.05)  difference  in  spread  was  found  between  mayonnaise  made 
from  yolk  stored  0,  30,  or  90  days.  Both  apparent  viscosity  and  spread  of 
mayonnaise  made  from  60  day  frozen  yolk  were  comparable  to  the  apparent 
viscosity  and  spread  of  mayonnaise  made  from  fresh  liquid  yolk  containing 
10%  iodized  NaCl. 

The  effect  of  frozen  storage  time  on  stability  of  mayonnaise  is 
illustrated  in  Figure  12,  while  the  corresponding  treatment  means  are  shown 
in  Table  22  (Appendix). 

Storage  of  yolk  at  -10°C  for  2*  hours  resulted  in  a  mean  stability  of  22 
days.  This  is  a  dramatic  increase  over  the  8.3  days  determined  for  fresh 
liquid  salted  yolk.     Subsequent  storage   of  yolk  at  -10°C  for  30,  60,  and  90 


58 


FIGURE  10.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  frozen  storage  time 
on  apparent  mayonnaise  viscosity. 


59 


X= LIQUID  YOLK 

£60- 
cT50- 

X 

x40- 

£30- 

co 

S20- 

10- 

1 

0     30     60 
DAYS  FROZEN  STORAGE 


90 


60 


FIGURE  11.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  frozen  storage  time 
on  mayonnaise  spread. 


61 


~6. 

CO 


X=  LIQUID  YOLK 


in 

W 

S2H 


CO 


1l 


0     30     60 
DAYS  FROZEN  STORAGE 


T 

90 


62 


FIGURE  12.    Illustration  of  the  influence  of  frozen  storage  time 
on  mayonnaise  stability. 


63 


CO 


24« 
21- 
,18- 
"  15—1 
:12. 

94 

6. 


X=  LIQUID  YOLK 


I 

0  30  60 

DAYS    FROZEN   STORAGE 


90 


64 
days    produced   mayonnaise    with    mean    stabilities    of    21,    20,    and    21    days 
respectively. 

YOLK  SOLIDS 

Viscosity 

Apparent  viscosity  of  the  3  types  of  yolk  solids  is  illustrated  in  Figure 
13,  with  the  corresponding  treatment  means  being  shown  in  Table  23 
(Appendix). 

All  3  types  of  yolk  solids  were  found  to  have  a  dramatically  higher 
apparent  viscosity  than  either  liquid  or  frozen  yolk.  There  was  a  significant 
(P>0.05)  difference  in  apparent  viscosity  between  all  3  types  of  yolk  solids; 
free  flow  yolk  solids  had  the  highest  apparent  viscosity  at  627,200  c.p.s., 
followed  by  plain  yolk  solids  at  501,200  c.p.s.  Low  viscosity  yolk  solids  had 
the  lowest  apparent  viscosity  at  172,400  c.p.s.  Varadarajulu  and  Cunningham 
(1972)  also  found  that  spray  dried  yolk  had  a  greater  apparent  viscosity  than 
fresh  yolk. 

Em  unification  capacity 

Emulsification  capacity  for  the  3  types  of  yolk  solids  is  illustrated  in 
Figure  1*,  while  the  corresponding  treatment  means  are  shown  in  Table  24 
(Appendix). 

All  3  types  of  yolk  solids  had  a  considerably  lower  emulsification 
capacity  than  fresh  yolk  containing  10*  iodized  NaCl.  No  significant  (P>0.05) 
difference  was  found  in  emulsification  capacity  between  plain  yolk  solids  and 
free  flow  yolk  solids.  Low  viscosity  yolk  solids  had  a  significantly  (P>0.05) 
lower   emulsification   capacity    at   6.02.     These    results    agree   with    those   of 


65 


FIGURE  13.    Illustration  of  the  apparent  viscosity  of  the  3  types 

of  yolk  solids. 

X  =  liquid  yolk,  P  =  plain  yolk  solids, 

F  =  free  flow  yolk  solids,  L  =  low  viscosity  yolk  solids. 


66 


i     r 

SOLIDS   TYPE 


L 


67 


FIGURE  14.    Illustration  of  the  emulsification  capacity  of  the 
3  types  of  yolk  solids. 


68 


SB 


9 

8 

57 

CJ 

§4- 

CO 

=  2. 

CO 

—J 

1 1- 


X=  LIQUID  YOLK 

P  =  PLAIN  YOLK  SOLIDS 

F  =  FREE  FLOW  YOLK  SOLIDS 

L=L0W  VISCOSITY  YOLK   SOLIDS 


T 

P  F 

SOLIDS  TYPE 


69 
Rolfes  et  al.  (1955),  who  found  that  lyophilization  impaired  yolk  emulsifying 
properties,  and  Zabik  (1969)  and  Varadarajulu  and  Cunningham  (1972),  who 
found  that  spray  drying  altered  the  emulsifying  properties  of  the  yolk. 
Schultz  et  al.  (1966)  reported  that  a  rapid  increase  in  extractability  of  "free 
lipids"  during  drying  was  extremely  detrimental  to  the  emulsifying  function 
of  the  yolk. 

Mayonnaise  tests 

Apparent  viscosity  of  mayonnaise  made  from  each  of  the  3  types  of 
yolk  solids  is  illustrated  in  Figure  15,  with  the  corresponding  treatment 
means  being  shown  in  Table  25  (Appendix).  Spread  of  mayonnaise  made  from 
each  of  the  3  types  of  yolk  solids  is  illustrated  in  Figure  16,  while  the 
corresponding  treatment  means  are  shown  in  Table  26  (Appendix).  Apparent 
viscosity  was  significantly  (P>0.05)  different  for  mayonnaise  made  from  each 
yolk  sample;  mayonnaise  made  from  low  viscosity  solids  had  the  highest 
apparent  viscosity  at  38,250  c.p.s.,  followed  by  plain  yolk  solids  mayonnaise 
at  29,500  c.p.s.,  and  free  flow  yolk  solids  mayonnaise  at  23,000  c.p.s.  No 
significant  (P>0.05)  difference  in  spread  was  found  between  mayonnaise  made 
from  any  of  the  yolk  solids  samples. 

Observation  during  the  initial  stage  of  mayonnaise  formation  indicated 
that  yolk  solids  did  not  foam  as  much  as  either  liquid  or  frozen  yolk.  These 
observations  agree  with  the  results  of  Schultz  et  al.  (1966),  who  reported 
that  egg  yolk  which  is  dried  and  subsequently  rehydrated  loses  it's  foaming 
ability.  Mayonnaise  made  from  yolk  solids  was  also  darker  yellow  in  color 
and  had  less  volume  than  that  made  from  either  liquid  or  frozen  yolk. 


70 


FIGURE  15.    Illustration  of  the  apparent  viscosity  of  mayonnaise 
made  from  the  3  types  of  yolk  solids. 


71 


^50 
eo 

eo 

«40- 


|35. 

5230- 


25. 


20- 


X= LIQUID  YOLK 

P  =  PLAIN  YOLK  SOLIDS 

F  =  FREE  FLOW  YOLK  SOLIDS 

Lb  LOW  VISCOSITY  YOLK  SOLIDS 


T 


■  ■ 

P  F 

SOLIDS  TYPE 


72 


FIGURE  16.    Illustration  of  the  spread  of  mayonnaise  made  from  the 
3  types  of  yolk  solids. 


73 


1^ 

X= LIQUID  YOLK 

t=6- 

P  = PLAIN  YOLK  SOLIDS 
F=FREE  FLOW  YOLK  SOLIDS 

= 

L  =  L0W  VISCOSITY  YOLK  SOLIDS 

2=5- 

s 

^4" 

X                                           ^ 

CO 

UJ 

£2- 

CO 

1" 

r 

i 

r 

P  F 

SOLIDS    TYPE 


74 
Stability  values  for  mayonnaise  made  from  the  3  types  of  yolk  solids  are 
illustrated  in  Figure  17,  while  the  corresponding  treatment  means  are  shown 
in  Table  27  (Appendix). 

Mayonnaise  made  from  free  flow  yolk  solids  had  the  highest  stability  at 
12  days.  Mayonnaise  made  from  plain  yolk  solids  and  from  low  viscosity  yolk 
solids  had  stabilities  of  10  days.  These  values  are  approximately  intermediate 
between  stability  values  determined  for  mayonnaise  made  from  frozen  yolk 
(highest  overall  stability)  and  liquid  yolk  (lowest  overall  stability). 

MAYONNAISE  MICROBIOLOGY 

Microbial  counts  before  and  after  incubation  for  all  mayonnaise  samples 
are  shown  in  Table  28. 

Standard  plate  counts  before  and  after  incubation  of  mayonnaise  made 
from  either  the  liquid  or  frozen  samples  resulted  in  a  general  trend  -  except 
for  the  15%  iodized  NaCl,  the  number  of  colony  forming  units  was  less  after 
incubation  than  before.  This  is  probably  attributable  to  the  combination  of 
heat,  acid,  and  salt  present  during  incubation.  Standard  plate  counts  on 
mayonnaise  made  from  yolk  solids  showed  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
colony  forming  units  after  incubation.  Differences  in  mold  and  yeast  counts 
before  and  after  incubation  were  relatively  slight  for  all  mayonnaise  samples. 


75 


FIGURE  17.    Illustration  of  the  stability  of  mayonnaise  made  from  the 
3  types  of  yolk  solids. 


76 


35. 
30- 

£20- 


CO 


15- 
10- 

5- 


X  =  LIQUID  YOLK 

0= FROZEN  YOLK 

P  =  PLAIN  YOLK  SOLIDS 

F  =  FREE  FLOW  YOLK  SOLIDS 

L  =  LOW  VISCOSITY  YOLK  SOLIDS 


P  F 

SOLIDS  TYPE 


77 
REFERENCES 

Anonymous.    1983.  Grinsted  Emulsifiers  for  Food.  Grinsted  Products,  Inc.,  201 

Industrial  Parkway,  Industrial  Airport,  Kansas  City,  Kansas    66031. 
Baldwin,   R.    E.     1977.    Functional    properties   in    foods.    In    Egg   Science   and 

Technology.     W.  3.  Stadelman  and  O.  3.  Cotterill  (eds).  AVI  Publishing 

Company,  Inc.    Westport,  Conn. 
Becher,   P.     1957.   Emulsions:    Theory   and   Practice.    Van    Nostrand    Reinhold 

Publishing  Company.    New  York,  New  York. 
Bennett,  H.    1947.  Practical  Emulsions.  2nd  ed.  Chemical  Publishing  Company, 

Inc.    Brooklyn,  New  York. 
Berger,   K.  G.     1976.   Ice   cream.   In   Food  Emulsions.  S.   Friberg  (ed.)   Marcel 

Dekker,  Inc.    New  York,  New  York. 
Bone,   D.     1973.  Water  activity  in  intermediate   moisture   foods.  Food   Tech. 

27:71-76. 
Brown,    L.    C.      19*9.     Emulsion    food    products.    3.    Am.    Oil     Chem.    Soc. 

10:632-636. 
Carlin,  A.  F.     1955.  Relation  of  acid  to  the  emulsifying  action  of  dried  yolk 

in  the  preparation  of  mayonnaise.    Poultry  Sci.  34:1186-1187  (abs). 
Chang,  P.  K.,  W.  D.  Powrie,  and  O.  Fennema.   1970.  Effect  of  heat  treatment 

on  viscosity  of  yolk.    3.  Food  Sci.  35:864-867. 
Chapin,  R.    1951.  Some  factors  affecting  emulsifying  properties  of  hens'  egg. 

Ph.D  Thesis.    Iowa  State  College.  Ames,  Iowa. 
Clayton,  W.     1928.  The  Theory  of  Emulsions  and  Their  Technical  Treatment. 

2nd  ed.    P.  Blakiston's  Son  and  Company.  Philadelphia,  Penn. 
Clayton,   W.,   and  3.   T.  Morse.     1939.  Direct   observation   of  emulsification. 

Chem.  and  Ind.    17:304-305. 


78 
Corran,    3.    W.      19*3.    Some    observations    on    a    typical    food    emulsion.    In 

Emulsion     Technology:       Theoretical     and     Applied.     H.     Bennett     (ed). 

Chemical  Publishing  Company,  Inc.    New  York,  New  York. 
Corran,  3.  W.,  and  C.  N.  Lewis.     192*.  Lecithin  and  cholesterol  in  relation  to 

the  physical  nature  of  cell  membranes.    Biochem.  3.  18:1364-1370. 
Cotterill,  O.  3.,   3.  Glauert,  and  H.  3.   Bassett.     1976.  Emulsifying  properties 

of  salted  yolk  after  pasteurization  and  storage.   Poultry  Sci.  55:544-548. 
Cunningham,  F.  E.    1972.  Viscosity  and  functional  ability  of  diluted  egg  yolk. 

3.  Milk  Food  Tech.    35:615-617. 
Cunningham,  F.  E.     1975.  Influence  of  added   lecithin  on  properties  of  hens' 

egg  yolk.    Poultry  Sci.  54:1307-1308. 
Davey,  E.  M.,   M.  E.  Zabik,  and  L.  E.  Dawson.     1969.  Fresh  and  frozen  egg 

yolk    protein     fractions:      Emulsion    stabilizing     power,    viscosity,    and 

electrophoretic  patterns.    Poultry  Sci.  48:251-260. 
Epstein,  A.  K.    1937.  Commercial  mayonnaise.  In  Mayonnaise  and  Other  Salad 

Dressings.    The  Emulsol  Corporation.  Chicago,  111. 
Fennema,  O.  1976.  Water  and  ice.  In  Principles  of  Food  Science.  Part  I.  Food 

Chemistry.    O.  Fennema  (ed).  Marcel  Dekker,  Inc.  New  York,  New  York. 
Finberg,  A.  3.     1955.  Advanced   techniques  for  making  mayonnaise  and  salad 

dressing.    Food  Eng.  27:83-91. 
Gorman,   3.    M.      1973.    Quality   control   and   product    specifications.    In    Egg 

Science  and  Technology.    W.  3.  Stadelman  and  O.  3.  Cotterill  (eds).  AVI 

Publishing  Company,  Inc.    Westport,  Conn. 
Graf,  E.,  and   H.  Bauer.    1976.  Milk  and  milk  products.  In  Food  Emulsions.  S. 

Friberg  (ed).     Marcel  Dekker,  Inc.  New  York,  New  York. 
Grawemeyer,  E.  A.,  and   M.  C.  Pfund.     1943.  Line-spread  as  an  objective  test 

for  consistency.    Food  Res.  8:105-108. 


79 
Gray,  D.   M.,   and   C.   A.   Southwick,   Jr.     1929.    Scientific    research   affords 

means  of  measuring  stability  of  mayonnaise.    Food  Inds.  4:300-304. 
Griswold,    R.    M.      1962.    Evaluating    food    by    objective    methods.    In    The 

Experimental  Study  of  Foods.     Houghton  Mifflin  Company.  Boston,  Penn. 
Hall,  I.  S.,  and  E.  H.  Dawson.     1940.  Effect  of  air  film  in  emulsification.  Ind. 

Eng.  Chem.    32:415-420. 
Jaax,   S.,   and    D.   Travnicek.     1968.   The   effect   of    pasteurization,   selected 

additives,   and   freezing   rate    on    the   gelation   of   frozen-defrosted   egg 

yolk.    Poultry  Sci.  47:1013-1022. 
Johnson,    P.    I.      1970.    Functional    performance    and    selected    chemical    and 

physical  properties  of  frozen  egg  yolk  containing  various  additives.  M.S. 

Thesis.    Kansas  State  University.  Manhattan,  Kansas. 
Jordan,  R.,   and   E.    S.  Whitlock.     1955.    A  note  on  the  effect  of  salt  (NaCl) 

upon    the    apparent   viscosity   of  egg   yolk,    egg   white,    and    whole   egg 

magma.    Poultry  Sci.  34:566-571. 
Jordan,  R.,  G.  E.  Vail,   J.   C.   Rogler,   and    W.  J.  Stadelman.     1962.   Further 

studies  on  eggs  from  hens  on  diets  differing  in  fat  content.     Food  Tech. 

6:118-120. 
Kilgore,  L.  B.    1932.  The  mustard  and  the  mayonnaise.  Flavor  ingredient  has 

important  effect  on  stability  of  the  emulsion.    Glass  Packer.  10:621-623. 
Kilgore,     L.    B.       1933a.     The     mustard     and     the     mayonnaise.     Effects    on 

permanency,  stability,  and  consistency.    Glass  Packer.  2:97-99. 
Kilgore,    L.    B.      1933b.    Observations    on    the    proper    amount    of    yolk    in 

mayonnaise.    U.S.  Egg  and  Poultry  Mag.  39:42-45,  63. 
Kilgore,     L.     B.       1934.     Testing    mustard     for     mayonnaise.     Glass     Packer. 

2:114-116,  126. 
Kilgore,  L.  B.     1935.  Egg  yolk  "makes"  mayonnaise.  Food  Inds.  7:229-230. 


80 
King,  A.  1941.  Some  factors  governing  the  stability  of  oil-in-water  emulsions. 

Trans.  Faraday  Soc.    37:168-180. 
Krantz,   3.   C,   Jr.,   and  N.   E.   Gordon.     1928.   Emulsions   and   the   effect  of 

hydrogen    ion    concentration    upon    their    stability.     Colloid    Symposium 

Monograph.    6:173-206. 
Lopez,   A.,   C.  A.   Fellers,  and  W.  D.  Powrie.     1954.  Some  factors  affecting 

gelation  of  frozen  egg  yolk.    J.  Milk  Food  Tech.  17:334-339. 
Lowe,  B.     1955.  Emulsions.  In  Experimental  Cookery  From  the  Chemical  and 

Physical  Standpoint.    John  Wiley  and  Sons,  Inc.  New  York,  New  York. 
Lynch,  M.  J.,   and   W.   C.   Griffin.     1974.   Food   emulsions.   In  Emulsions   and 

Emulsion   Technology.     Part  I.  K.  Lissant  (ed).   Marcel   Dekker,  Inc.  New 

York,  New  York. 
Marion,  W.  W.,  and  W.  3.  Stadelman.    1958.  An  investigation  of  the  gelation 

of  thawed  egg  yolk.    Poultry  Sci.  37:1224  (abs). 
Mark,  K.  L.    1921.  Emulsification  in  mayonnaise.  3.  Home  Ec.  13:447  (abs). 
Meryman,  H.  T.    1956.  Mechanics  of  freezing  living  cells  and  tissues.  Science. 

24:515-521. 
Meyer,  D.  D.,  and  M.  Woodburn.    1965.  Gelation  of  frozen-defrosted  egg  yolk 

as    affected    by    selected     additives:      Viscosity     and     electrophoretic 

findings.    Poultry  Sci.  44:437-446. 
Miller,  C,  and  A.  R.  Winter.    1950.  Pasteurized  frozen  whole  egg  and  yolk 

for  mayonnaise  production.    Food  Res.  16:43-49. 
Palmer,  H.  H.,  K.  Ijichi,  S.  L.  Cimino,  and  H.  Roff.    1969a.  Salted  egg  yolks. 

1.    Viscosity  and  performance  of  pasteurized  and  frozen  samples.  Food 

Tech.    23:148-153. 


81 
Palmer,  H.  H.,  K.  Ijichi,  S.  L.  Cimino,  and  H.  Roff.    1969b.  Salted  egg  yolks. 

2.     Viscosity    and    performance    of   acidified,    pasteurized,    and    frozen 

samples.    Food  Tech.  23:15^-156. 
Palmer,   H.   H.,    K.  Ijichi,   and   H.   Roff.     1970.  Partial    thermal    reversal  of 

gelation  in  thawed  egg  yolk  products.    J.  Food  Sci.  35:403-406. 
Pankey,  R.  D.,  and  W.  3.  Stadelman.     1969.  Effect  of  dietary  fats  on  some 

chemical  and  functional  properties  of  eggs.    3.  Food  Sci.  34:312-317. 
Payawal,  S.  R.,  B.  Lowe,  and  G.  T.  Stewart.     19*6.  Pasteurization  of  liquid 

egg  products.  2.  Effects  of  heat  treatment  on  appearance  and  viscosity. 

Food  Res.    11:2*6-260. 
Pearce,  3.  A.,  and  C.  G.  Lavers.     19*9.  Liquid  and  frozen  egg.  V.  Viscosity, 

baking  quality,  and  other  measurements  on  frozen  egg  products.   Can.  3. 

Res.    27:231-2*0. 
Powrie,  W.  D.    1977.  Chemistry  of  eggs  and  egg  products.  In  Egg  Science  and 

Technology.     W.  3.  Stadelman  and  O.  3.  Cotterill  (eds).  AVI  Publishing 

Company,  Inc.    Westport,  Conn. 
Powrie,  W.  D.,  and  M.  A.  Tung.    1976.  Food  dispersions.  In  Principles  of  Food 

Science.    Part  I.  Food  Chemistry.  O.  Fennema  (ed).  Marcel  Dekker,  Inc. 

New  York,  New  York. 
Powrie,  W.  D.,  H.  Little,  and  A.  Lopez.     1963.  Gelation  in  egg  yolk.  3.  Food 

Sci.    28:38-46. 
Preston,  B.    1983.  Personal  communication. 
Robinson,   S.  K.     1924.  Practice  in   mayonnaise   manufacture.   Am.    Food    3. 

19:185-187. 
Rolfes,  T.,  P.  Clements,  and  A.  R.  Winter.    1955.  The  physical  and  functional 

properties   of    lyophilized    whole    egg,    yolk,    and    white.     Food    Tech. 

9:569-572. 


82 
Scalzo,  A.  M.,   R.  W.  Dickerson   Jr.,  1.  T.  Peeler,  and  R.  B.  Read,  Jr.     1970. 

The  viscosity  of  egg  and  egg  products.     Food  Tech.  2*:  11 3-1 19. 
Schultz,   J.    R.,    H.    E.   Snyder,    and    R.    H.    Forsythe.      1966.    Interactions    of 

carbohydrates  with  egg  lipoproteins.    Poultry  Sci.  45:1122  (abs). 
Schut,  Y.     1976.  Meat  emulsions.  In  Food  Emulsions.  S.  Friberg  (ed).  Marcel 

Dekker,  Inc.    New  York,  New  York. 
Seifriz,  W.     1925.  Studies  on  emulsions  I,  II,  III,  IV,  V,  VI,  VII,  VIII.  J.  Phys. 

Chem.    29:587-600,  738-7*9,  83*-8*l. 
Sell,   H.   M.,    A.  G.  Olsen,   and   R.   E.  Kremers.     1935.  Lecitho-protein.   The 

emulsifying  ingredient  in  egg  yolk.    Ind.  and  Eng.  Chem.  27:1222-1223. 
Shepard,  I.  S.,  and  R.   W.  Yoell.     1976.  Cake  emulsions.  In   Food  Emulsions.  S. 

Friberg  (ed).     Marcel  Dekker,  Inc.  New  York,  New  York. 
Stadelman,   W.  J.     1977.  Quality  identification  of  shell  eggs.  In  Egg  Science 

and    Technology.      W.    J.    Stadelman    and    O.    J.    Cotterill    (eds).    AVI 

Publishing  Company,  Inc.    Westport,  Conn. 
Varadarajulu,    P.,    and    F.    E.    Cunningham.      1972a.    A    study    of    selected 

charcteristics  of  hens'  egg  yolk.     1.  Influence  of  albumen  and  selected 

additives.    Poultry  Sci.  51:5*2-5*6. 
Varadarajulu,    P.,    and     F.    E.    Cunningham.      1972b.    A    study    of    selected 

characteristics  of  hens'  egg  yolk.    2.  Influence  of  processing  procedures, 

pasteurization,  and  yolk  fractionation.    Poultry  Sci.  51:9*1-9*5. 
Varadarajulu,    P.,    and     F.     E.    Cunningham.      1972c.    A    study    of    selected 

characteristics  of  hens'  egg  yolk.    3.  Influence  of  breed,  strain,  and  age 

of  bird.    Poultry  Sci.  51:1327-1331. 
Vincent,  R.,   W.  D.  Powrie,  and  O.   Fennema.     1966.  Surface  activity  of  yolk, 

plasma,  and  dispersions  of  yolk  fractions.    3.  Food  Sci.  31:6*3-6*8. 


83 
Weiss,  T.    1970.  Mayonnaise  and  salad  dressings.  In  Food  Oils  and  Their  Uses. 

AVI  Publishing  Company,  Inc.    Westport,  Conn. 
Yeadon,   D.    A.,   L.   A.   Goldblatt,   and    A.    M.    Altschul.     1958.    Lecithin   in 

oil-in-water  emulsions.    J.  Am.  Oil  Chem.  Soc.  35:435-438. 
Young,  L.  L.,  D.  Hamm,  and  L.  C.  Blankenship.    1983.  Comparison  of  ova  yolk 

with  egg  yolk.    Poultry  Sci.  62:392-394. 
Zabik,  M.  E.   1969.  Comparison  of  frozen,  foam-spray-dried,  freeze-dried,  and 

spray-dried  eggs.     6.   Emulsifying   properties  at   three  pH  levels.   Food 

Tech.    23:130-132. 


u 


APPENDIX 


85 
TABLE  3.    Treatment  Means  for  Egg  Yolk  Viscosity 


1  2 
Treatment  Mean  ' 


(c.p.s.) 


15%  uniodized  NaCl  1008.0" 

15*  iodized  NaCl  932.0b 

15*  KC1  560.0C 

1056  uniodized  NaCl  500 .0C 

10*  iodized  NaCl  288.0e 

10*  KC1  216.0f 

5*  uniodized  NaCl  208.0f 

5%  iodized  NaCl  168.0g 

5%  KC1  120.0h 

0*  salt  104.01 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


2 

Means  calculated  from  5  replications. 


86 


TABLE  *.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Type 
on  Apparent  Yolk  Viscosity 


Treatment  Mean 


(c.p.s.) 


Uniodized  NaCl  572.0" 

Iodized  NaCl  462.7b 

KC1  298.7C 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


TABLE  5.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Level 
on  Apparent  Yolk  Viscosity 


Treatment  Mean 


(c.p.s.) 


15%  833.3" 

10%  33*.7b 

5%  165.3C 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


87 
TABLE  6.    Treatment  Means  for  Emulsification  Capacity 


I  2 
Treatment  Mean  ' 


(ml  oil/g  yolk) 


0%  salt  11.25" 

5*  iodized  NaCl  7.27b 

5%  KC1  7.22b 

5%  uniodized  NaCl  6.92c 

10*  iodized  NaCl  6.85c 

10%  KC1  6.81c'd 

15%  iodized  NaCl  6.63d'e 

15%  KC1  6.52e'f 

10%  uniodized  NaCl  6.39f,g 

15%  uniodized  NaCl  6.27g 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 
Means  calculated  from  5  replications. 


TABLE  7.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Type 
on  Emulsification  Capacity 


Treatment  Mean 


(ml  oil/g  yolk) 


Iodized  NaCl  6.92 

KC1  6.85a 

Uniodized  NaCl  6.53b 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


TABLE  8.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Level 
on  Emulsification  Capacity 


Treatment  Mean 


(ml  oil/g  yolk) 


5%  7.1»a 

10*  6.68b 

15%  6.48c 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


89 

TABLE  9.    Treatment  Means  for  Apparent  Mayonnaise  Viscosity 


1  2 
Treatment  Mean   ' 


(c.p.s.) 


10*  iodized  NaCl  49,250.0 

15*  iodized  NaCl  34,750.0b 

5*  iodized  NaCl  29,000.0C 

15*  uniodized  NaCl  27,250.0c'd 

10%  uniodized  NaCl  26,000.0d,e 

15*  KC1  24,750.0e 

10*  KC1  20,750.0f 

5*  uniodized  NaCl  20,000.0f 

5*  KC1  17,250.0g 

0*  salt  10,000.0h 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 
Means  calculated  from  4  readings. 


90 
TABLE  10.    Treatment  Means  for  Mayonnaise  Spread 


Treatment  Mean1'2 

(spread  units) 


0%  salt  10. 0a 

5%  KC1  7.3b 

5*  uniodized  NaCl  6.8C 

15%  KC1  5.4d 

5%  iodized  NaCl  5.3d 

10%  uniodized  NaCl  5.3d 

15%  uniodized  NaCl  5.0d'e 

15%  iodized  NaCl  *.9d,e 

10%  KC1  *.5e'f 

10%  iodized  NaCl  4.0f 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 
Means  calculated  from  *  readings. 


91 


TABLE  11.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Type 
on  Apparent  Mayonnaise  Viscosity 


Treatment  Mean 


(c.p.s.) 


Iodized  NaCl  37,667 .0a 

Uniodized  NaCl  2«,*17.0b 

KC1  20,917.0° 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


TABLE  12.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Type 
on  Mayonnaise  Spread 


Treatment  Mean 


(spread  units) 


KC1  5.7a 

Uniodized  NaCl  5.7a 

Iodized  NaCl  *.7b 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


92 

TABLE  13.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Level 
on  Apparent  Mayonnaise  Viscosity 


Treatment  Mean 


(c.p.s.) 


10%  32,000.0a 

15*  28,917.0b 

5%  22,083.0C 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


TABLE  1*.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Level 
on  Mayonnaise  Spread 


Treatment  Mean 


(spread  units) 


5*  6.4a 

15%  5.1b 


10% 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


93 
TABLE  15.    Treatment  Means  for  Mayonnaise  Stability 


Treatment  Mean  ' 


(days  at  40 °C) 


15%  uniodized  NaCi  15.CT 

15*  KC1  13.0b 

15%  iodized  NaCl  12.3b 

10%  iodized  NaCl  8.3C 

10%  uniodized  NaCl  8.3C 

10%  KC1  7.0d 

5%  iodized  NaCl  5.0e 

5%  uniodized  NaCl  4.3e 

5%  KC1  4.3e 

0%  salt  3.0f 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


Means  calculated  from  3  replications. 


9* 
TABLE  16.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Type 
on  Mayonnaise  Stability 


Treatment  Mean 

(days  at  40 °C) 


Uniodized  NaCl  9.2 

Iodized  NaCl  8.6 

KC1  8.1 


TABLE  17.    Treatment  Means  for  Effect  of  Salt  Level 
on  Mayonnaise  Stability 


Treatment  Mean 

(days  at  40 °C) 


15*  13.4 

10%  7.9 

5%  4.6 


95 

TABLE  18.    Treatment  Means  for  Apparent  Egg  Yolk  Viscosity 


1  2 
Treatment  Mean   ' 


(c.p.s.) 


90  days  frozen  storage  14,800.0a 

30  days  frozen  storage  2,080.0 

60  days  frozen  storage  2,000.0 

0  days  frozen  storage  68*.0C 

Liquid  yolk  (10%  iodized  NaCl)                                                         288.0 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 
Means  calculated  from  5  replications. 


96 
TABLE  19.    Treatment  Means  for  Emulsification  Capacity 


1  2 
Treatment  Mean   ' 


(ml  oil/g  yolk) 


Liquid  yolk  (10%  iodized  NaCl)  6.85 

0  days  frozen  storage  6.39 

60  days  frozen  storage  6.10 

90  days  frozen  storage  6.06  'c 

30  days  frozen  storage  5.92c 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 

2 

Means  calculated  from  5  replications. 


97 
TABLE  20.    Treatment  Means  for  Apparent  Mayonnaise  Viscosity 


1  2 
Treatment  Mean  ' 


(c.p.s.) 


60  days  frozen  storage  50,250.0a 

Liquid  yoJk  (10%  iodized  NaCl)                                                      *9,250.0 

90  days  frozen  storage  36,000.0 

0  days  frozen  storage  33,750.0 

30  days  frozen  storage  31,250.0 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


Means  calculated  from  4  readings. 


98 

TABLE  21.    Treatment  Means  for  Mayonnaise  Spread 


Treatment  Mean  ' 


(spread  units) 


30  days  frozen  storage  4.3 

0  days  frozen  storage  4.3 

Liquid  yolk  (10%  iodized  NaCl)  4.0 

90  days  frozen  storage  3.9a 

60  days  frozen  storage  3.0 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


Means  calculated  from  4  readings. 


99 

TABLE  22.    Treatment  Means  for  Mayonnaise  Stability 


Treatment  Mean 

(days  at  40  °C) 


0  days  frozen  storage  22 

30  days  frozen  storage  21 

90  days  frozen  storage  21 

60  days  frozen  storage  20 
Liquid  yolk  (10*  iodized  NaCl)  8.3 


100 
TABLE  23.    Treatment  Means  for  Apparent  Egg  Yolk  Viscosity 


Treatment  Mean  ' 


(c.p.s.) 


Free  flow  yolk  solids  627,200.0a 

Plain  yolk  solids  501,200.0b 

Low  viscosity  yolk  solids  172,*00.0C 
Liquid  yolk  (10%  iodized  NaCl)  288.0 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


Means  calculated  from  5  replications. 


101 
TABLE  24.    Treatment  Means  for  Emulsification  Capacity 


1  2 
Treatment  Mean  ' 

(ml  oil/g  yolk) 


Liquid  yolk  (10%  iodized  NaCl)  6.85 

Plain  yolk  solids  6.33a 

Free  flow  yolk  solids  6.32a 

Low  viscosity  yolk  solids  6.02 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 
Means  calculated  from  5  replications. 


102 
TABLE  25.    Treatment  Means  for  Apparent  Mayonnaise  Viscosity 


Treatment  Mean  ' 

(c.p.s.) 


Liquid  yolk  (10%  iodized  NaCl)  49,250.0 

Low  viscosity  yolk  solids  38,250.0a 

Plain  yolk  solids  28,500.0b 

Free  flow  yolk  solids  23,000.0° 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 

2 
Means  calculated  from  *  readings. 


103 

TABLE  26.    Treatment  Means  for  Mayonnaise  Spread 


Treatment  Mean1'2 

(spread  units) 


Liquid  yolk  (10%  iodized  NaCl)  4.0 

Low  viscosity  yolk  solids  3.9a 

Plain  yolk  solids  3.3a 

Free  flow  yolk  solids  3.3a 


Means  with  the  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different. 


2 

Means  calculated  from  4  readings. 


10* 
TABLE  27.    Treatment  Means  for  Mayonnaise  Stability 


Treatment  Mean 

(days  at  *0°C) 


Frozen  yolk  (average)  21 

Free  flow  yolk  solids  12 

Plain  yolk  solids  10 

Low  viscosity  yolk  solids  10 

Liquid  yolk  (10*  iodized  NaCl)  8.3 


tLl 

_) 

to 
< 


M 

C 

L. 

3 

<u 

i/s 

o 

ws 

o 

i/s 

O 

o 

IA 

IA 

o 

IA 

O 

o 

o 

U"> 

o 

o 

O 

IN 

o 

N 

CD 

CN 

""i 

o 

CN 

CN 

o 

CN 

O 

o 

o 

CN 

o 

o 

U 

< 

O 

o 

d 

o 

o 

o 

O 

a 

o 

© 

O 

O 

o 

d 

d 

d 

d 

<-j 

<s> 

£ 

<u 

>- 

T3 

e 

<D 

13 

u 

o 

IA 

o 

O 

O 

o 

iA 

o 

O 

o 

Q 

^S 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

Tl 

O 

o 

CN 

o 

o 

o 

o 

CN 

o 

CD 

o 

O 

CN 

o 

o 

55 

o 

o 

1) 

d 

d 

d 

d 

o* 

d 

O 

d 

O 

O 

o 

d 

d 

d 

d 

d 

d 

o 
5 

CO 

fl 

0^ 

p-\ 

r^ 

CN 

cr\ 

<rs 

CO 

cs 

C*S 

W 

o-\ 

CN 

ro 

m 

r^ 

cs 

o 

o 

o 

O 

a 

o 

o 

O 

O 

o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

Mi 

<u 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 

c 

13 

< 

— 

IA 

IA 

h-. 

as 

ITs 

IA 

SO 

o^ 

CN 

o 

r^ 

q 

00 

MD 

* 

r^ 

O 

— 1 

— 1 

(N 

CN 

— < 

CN 

CN 

— . 

CN 

CN 

CN 

i 

ns 

CN 

CN 

CN 

— 

U 

<D 

A 

£L 

T3 

(3 

■3- 

C"S 

r"S 

r^ 

n~» 

m 

4* 

** 

^r 

m 

r«s 

m 

c-s 

CN 

CN 

HS 

c 
(13 
</3 

0) 

o 

o 

X 

o 

X 

O 
X 

o 

X 

O 

X 

O 
X 

o 

X 

O 
X 

O 
X 

o 

X 

o 

X 

O 
X 

o 

X 

o 

X 

O 

X 

o 

X 

o 

X 

V 

CO 

Pv. 

OS 

OO 

m 

— 1 

CN 

as 

f^ 

r^. 

r^ 

as 

so 

0O 

o 

CN 

— 

43 

— 1 

CN 

CN 

SO 

CN 

en 

IA 

, 

— i 

, 

pM 

CN 

CN 

CN 

r«s 

CN 

i 

A 

A 

A 

— i 

U 

U 

u 

a 

03 

(J 

U 

ft) 

z 

z 

C 

<u 

s 

a3 

03 

z 

"O 

"D 

2 

~o 

S 

(D 

j* 

"O 

■a 

QJ 

N 

N 

TJ 

d> 

aj 

N 

— 

io 

to 

<T3 

o 
>> 

aj 

N 

N 

t3 

T3 

o 

T3 

£ 

O 

01 

N 

•a 

O 

O 

>. 

(j 

!■ 

T3 

■a 

o 

c 

O 

"5 

(J 

u 

(/) 

U1 

<f) 

o 

o 

h- 

"2 

3 
cr 

.2 

O 

o 

^s 

"2 

3 

o 

iA 

c 

N 
O 

(/I 
>> 

03 

03 
■D 

O 

03 
O 

>> 

03 
X3 

o 

to 

O 

c 
'3 

OJ 

> 

o 

—) 

o 

ir\ 

— ' 

- ' 

IA 

— ' 

— 

IA 

U- 

O 

<>S 

-JS 

as 

> 

a 

UL 

-J 

105 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

Sincere  appreciation  is  expressed  to  my  major  professor,  Dr.  F.  E. 
Cunningham,  for  his  guidance,  patience,  interest,  and  understanding 
throughout  this  research  project. 

Appreciation  is  also  expressed  to  Dr.  D.  Y.  C.  Fung  and  Dr.  R.  Carl 
Hoseney  for  not  only  serving  on  my  committee,  but  for  their  interest  and 
advice,  which  was  always  helpful. 

Special  thanks  is  extended  to  Dr.  Ken  Kemp,  Department  of  Statistics, 
for  his  help  with  the  statistical  analysis,  and  to  Dr.  Len  Harbers  for  his  time 
and  effort  in  putting  together  my  slides. 

Finally,  my  love  and  appreciation  is  extended  to  my  parents,  whose 
support  and  encouragement  have  made  the  effort  worthwhile. 


PROPERTIES  OF  SEVERAL  TYPES  OF  SALTED  YOLK 
AND  FUNCTIONALITY  IN  MAYONNAISE 


by 

L.  J.  Harrison 
B.S.,  Texas  Tech  University,  Lubbock,  Texas,  1982 

AN  ABSTRACT  OF  A  MASTER'S  THESIS 

submitted  in  partial  fulfillment  of  the 
requirements  for  the  degree 

MASTER  OF  SCIENCE 

Food  Science 

(Department  of  Animal  Sciences  and  Industry) 

KANSAS  STATE  UNIVERSITY 

Manhattan,  Kansas 

1984 


ABSTRACT 

Viscosity,  em  unification  capacity,  and  functionality  in  mayonnaise  of 
several  types  of  salted  yolk  were  studied. 

The  effects  of  salt  type  and  level  on  the  yolk  properties  were 
determined  in  the  liquid  yolk  study.  The  addition  of  iodized  NaCl,  uniodized 
NaCl,  or  KC1  resulted  in  an  increase  in  yolk  viscosity  and  a  decrease  in 
emulsification  capacity.  Viscosity  of  yolk  increased  as  salt  level  increased 
from  5  to  15%,  while  emulsification  capacity  decreased  as  salt  level 
increased.  Mayonnaise  made  from  liquid  yolk  containing  any  of  the  3  salts 
had  a  higher  apparent  viscosity,  lower  spread,  and  higher  stability  than  that 
made  from  liquid  yolk  with  0%  salt. 

Frozen  storage  of  yolk  containing  10%  iodized  NaCl  for  0,  30,  60,  and 
90  days  resulted  in  increased  apparent  yolk  viscosity  and  decreased 
emulsification  capacity.  Mayonnaise  made  from  yolk  stored  60  days  had  a 
higher  apparent  viscosity  and  a  lower  spread  than  that  made  from  any  other 
frozen  yolk  sample.  Mayonnaise  made  from  all  frozen  yolk  samples  had 
stability  values  of  greater  than  or  equal  to  20  days. 

Plain,  free  flow,  and  low  viscosity  yolk  solids  had  higher  apparent 
viscosities,  and  lower  emulsification  capacities  than  liquid  yolk.  All  3  types 
of  yolk  solids  produced  mayonnaise  with  lower  viscosities  and  lower  spreads 
than  that  made  from  liquid  yolk.  Stability  values  for  mayonnaise  made  from 
the  3  types  of  yolk  solids  were  intermediate  between  those  for  mayonnaise 
made  from  liquid  yolk  (lowest  overall  stability)  and  that  made  from  frozen 
yolk  (highest  overall  stability). 


