


oy a eeaiit 











CLASS OF 1889 


ENDOWED BY 
JOHN SPRUNT HILL 


_ 
0 & 
~ O 
mo 
% O 
> 
Z. € 
a3) (2) 
Zz. 


= 
= 
an 
= 
: 
an 
O 
. 
f 


THE COLLECTION OF 
NORTH CAROLINIANA 


SSE 
SSSA QE SCAT SES 


hes 
ee 
fa 
oy 
© 
2 
: 
= 
pos 
7 
: 


BONS 
an % \ 
aos 





Quaker Recipes 

Collected 
by 

Members 
of 

The Woman’s Auxiliary 
of 
High Point Friends Meeting 


High Point North Carolina 


1954 


History 


The history of Friends, or Quakers, in North Carolina goes back to 
the earliest days of the colony. Until 1701, Quakers were possibly the 
only organized religious denomination in North Carolina and made up 
about ten percent of the total population. Half a century later, ac- 
cording to records still preserved, streams of Quaker immigrants came 
from the north and settled in this Piedmont area. Scattered communities 
set up local, or monthly meetings (Quaker nuclei) which were, in turn, 


organized to form quarterly meetings. 


These quarterly meetings were great occasions not only for preach- 
ing and business meetings but for friendly intercourse and for feasting. 
Quakers believed in simplicity of speech and apparel, yet they were 
“good providers” and the women tock pardonable pride in their 
cooking. They brought most delectable foods to these dinners and 


many choice recipes were exchanged. 


To these meetings, too, came “visiting Friends” from northern states 
and even from England and other lands. These guests were cordially 
entertained in homes and royally, though rurally, fed. Fried chicken, 
hot breads, roasts and garden vegetables gave body to the meals while 
pickles, relishes, pies, cakes and puddings added zest. The reader will 
note that no alcoholic content is suggested in any of these recipes, for 


Quakers have a testimony against strong drink. 


High Point Monthly Meeting has grown to be the largest in Deep 
River Quarter. With the vision of continued growth in mind, the 
meeting has bought a large wooded tract of land where a new and 
large Meeting House will be built in the near future. It is the women 


of this meeting who have collected these recipes and prepared this 


second Quaker Cook Book. CAVE C2 ; Ys ize 


Table of Contents 


DicaS pe stores eswte ec eyes av Foon ee oer a ements oO Pete Page 
GS RIE RII cal nia lien tee OS <i a oe een oO Ea Maem a > Page 
OATS na ee ere Ree BE eee ee Page 
aSserples anarouppere Wises eas oa gn eee ode Page 
CURSE) SUT piace Sat A ha Stem acl a ihe Saree ORS. 2 AR Rae AEA Pa? Page 
PDE SSOL LS Varo seereneutins One rr wes eoAee e nl  Srvek eae Ne eee Page 
I Ue el a ll le Belcae Leas eke, SPAR cael eb hi cet ve eek a Page 
Bo los sand th TeSCLVCS mem cara 0m eres ne et ere ee se semeee Page 
| NG ripe seis EA Sa aa ane AeA ca EAP Pe eke VER BAe us tee Page 
SAVES Ae ae tak ye ecg Cee eee cre Ws ek ene eee Page 
TSU ET a ISR Si state Deedes a dal an ORD adalat le Soe Ree? 1 Page 
Beart COOK CIY 7c or ee ee ae Ate ea Page 
etree CLL ATICOUS ee a0 Pi aN ae ga ID lie ee Page 


15 
39 
45 
67 
TR 
oT 
115 
125 
139 
[55 
165 
179 


Some of these recipes were written in the days when only ingredients 
were given and directions were sketchy, and controlled oven temper- 
atures were non-existent. Even some of the modern ones, contributed 
by excellent cooks, assume some knowledge of cooking on the part of 
their readers. If a recipe interests but confuses you, please turn to 
whatever standard work you are familiar with to get the details you need. 


(Trade names of products are given only when necessary. ) 


COPYRIGHT, 1954 
WOMAN’S AUXILIARY HIGH POINT FRIENDS MEETING 





Breads 


BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 


2 cups flour 4 tablespoons shortening 
1 teaspoon salt 344 cup milk (sweet) 
3 teaspoons baking powder 


Sift flour once before measuring. Sift flour, salt and baking powder 
together. Cut shortening into dry ingredients with blender. Add milk to 
make a soft dough. Place on floured board and pat out to desired 
thickness. Bake on greased cookie sheet about 10 minutes at 425°. 


PAT FERGUSON 


BUTTERMILK ROLLS 


2% cups flour 3 tablespoons sugar 

2 teaspoon soda 3 tablespoons shortening 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup buttermilk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cake (or package) yeast 


Dissolve yeast in luke warm milk. Make dough and knead lightly. Form 
into pocketbook rolls, let rise 30 minutes and bake in medium oven. 


SALLIE ALLEN (Mrs. C. F.) 


GRAHAM NUT BREAD 


3 cups graham flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 
14 cup white flour 1 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon salt 1 cup nut meats, chopped 


2% cups milk 
Mix and bake about one hour in moderate oven. 


Mrs. ALICE PAIGE WHITE 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








CHEESE DROP BISCUITS 


2 cups sifted flour 14 cup cold shortening 
4 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup cold milk 
1 teaspoon salt 1 cup grated cheese 


Sift flour, baking powder and salt together and cut in shortening. Add 
grated cheese and mix into dry ingredients. Add milk and mix until 
well blended. Drop biscuits by teaspoonful on baking sheet. Bake 12 
minutes in 450° oven. 


FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. Howard) 


ICE BOX BISCUITS 


5 cups flour 2 cups buttermilk 
1 pkg. dry yeast, dissolved in 3 tablespoons sugar 
14 cup warm water 1 tablespoon salt 
3 teaspoons baking powder YZ teaspoon soda 


3 heaping tablespoons Crisco 


Mix dry ingredients in bowl and fold in shortening. Pour yeast which 
was dissolved in water in the buttermilk and then work this into the 
flour mixture. Turn out in greased bowl and place in refrigerator. Use 
as needed. These must rise 45 minutes before baking. 


Bake 15 minutes in 450° oven. 
DELLA WILLIAMS (Mrs. C. F.) 


DATE-NUT BREAD 


1 7-oz. pkg. dates 1%4 teaspoon soda 

3¥%4 cup boiling water 1 egg 

1% cups flour YZ cup sugar 

1% teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon melted butter 
1 teaspoon vanilla 12 cup chopped nuts 


Chop dates, add boiling water, and allow to cool. Sift, then measure 
flour, and sift again with baking powder and soda. Beat egg slightly, add 
sugar and mix well. Add flour mixture to the egg mixture and again 
stir well. Then add melted butter and vanilla, nuts, and dates. Mix 
thoroughly. Place in buttered loaf pan and bake for 1 hour at 350°. 
Makes one small loaf. 

MEETA HEATH JACKSON 


BREAD 





DUMPLINGS FOR STEWS 


2 cups sifted flour 1 tablespoon shortening 
3 teaspoons baking powder ¥4 cup milk 
2 teaspoons salt 


Sift together dry ingredients. Cut in the shortening. Add milk to make 
a soft dough, about 34 cup. Drop the dough by spoonfuls into the 
boiling stew. Care should be taken to drop each one on a piece of meat 
or vegetable so that it may not be immersed in the liquid. Cover the 
kettle closely—do not remove the cover until the dumplings have 
steamed for 12 minutes. 

LAURA WHITE (Mrs. Murray) 


STEAMED BROWN BREAD | 


2 cups corn meal Y2 cup molasses 
1 cup flour 2 cups buttermilk 
3 scant teaspoons soda Pinch of salt 


Sift dry ingredients together, add liquid and mix all together thoroughly. 
Put into greased cans (with tops) and steam for three hours. Oven 300°. 


NANCY K. POSTON 


SALT RISING BREAD 


1 cup milk 4 cup white corn meal 
2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup lukewarm water 
14% teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons shortening 


542 cups flour 


Scald milk, remove from heat and stir in 1 tablespoon sugar, salt, and 
the corn meal. Turn into a two-quart jar or pitcher, cover, and place 
in pan of warm water (120°). Let stand in warm place 6 or 8 
hours or until it ferments and gas escapes freely. Stir in lukewarm 
water, remaining tablespoon sugar, shortening, and 2 cups flour. Beat 
thoroughly. Return to jar and warm water bath and let rise until sponge 
is very light and full of bubbles. Turn sponge into large warm bowl, 
gradually stir in remaining flour to make a stiff dough. Work until 
smooth. Divide in half, shape into loaves, and put into greased loaf pans. 
Brush with melted butter, cover and let rise until double in bulk. Bake 
at 375° for 10 minutes, lower heat to 350° and bake about 25 minutes 


or until crusty brown. 
BERTHA SHEETZ 


THE QUAKER CooK BOooK 








PLAIN MUFFINS 


14 cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 
1% cup shortening 14 teaspoon salt 
1 egg 1 cup milk 


1% cups sifted flour 


Mix sugar and shortening, stir in egg. Sift dry ingredients and add 
alternately with- milk. Fill greased muffin tins % full and bake at 375° 
about 20 minutes or until golden brown. 


GRAHAM MUFFINS 


2 cups graham flour 4 tablespoons melted fat 
12 cup white flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 
Y cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1% cups sour milk 14 teaspoon salt 


Sift flours with baking powder, salt, sugar, and soda, add fat and milk. 
Mix. Bake in hot greased pans, in a moderately hot oven. 


SALLY ALLEN (Mrs. C. F.) 


GOLDEN CORN CAKE 


1 cup corn meal 14 teaspoon salt 

3% cup flour 1 cup milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 

5 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted butter 


Mix dry ingredients, add milk, egg well beaten, and melted butter, 
and bake in greased cake pan about 20 minutes at 400°. 


Miss PHEBE WORTH 


HUSH PUPPIES 


3 cups corn meal 1142 teaspoons salt 
2 teaspoons baking powder 1% cups milk 
12 cup water 


Blend in one onion finely chopped if desired. With hand, mold mixture 
into little cakes the size of pecans. Fry in deep fat until brown. Delicious 
with seafood. 


BREAD 








REFRIGERATOR ROLLS 


1 cup shortening 1 pkg. or cake of yeast 
¥4 cup sugar 1 cup lukewarm water 
2 teaspoons salt 2 eggs 

1 cup boiling water 7 cups plain flour 


In very large mixing bowl combine first four ingredients. Dissolve yeast 
in 1 cup lukewarm water. 


When shortening and boiling water has cooled to room temperature, add 
slightly beaten eggs, dissolved yeast and beat in the 7 cups flour. (Sift 
flour before measuring.) Beat mixture vigorously. Scrape down sides 
of mixing bowl with rubber scraper and grease well. Cover dough and 
let rise until double in bulk, about 2 hours. 


Punch down from sides of bowl, cover and let stand in refrigerator over 
night. Make out in desired shapes, place in greased pans and let rise 
until double in size. Bake at 425° for 12 to 15 minutes. 


This dough is sticky before placing in refrigerator, but do not add any 
more flour than specified. 
SARA HONEYCUTT 


EGG OR SPOON BREAD 


2 eggs beaten separately 14 teaspoon soda 

2 cups buttermilk 14 teaspoon baking powder 
(May use sweet milk and 1 tablespoon melted butter 
baking powder in place of Y cup corn meal 
buttermilk and soda) Pinch of salt 


Mix. Bake in moderate oven and serve from baking dish. 


Mrs. ARTHUR LYON 


DIXIE CORN BREAD 


1 cup corn meal 1 cup buttermilk 

1 teaspoon baking powder 2 tablespoons melted 
YZ teaspoon soda shortening 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 


Sift corn meal, baking powder, soda and salt. Combine slightly beaten 
egg with milk at room temperature. Add other ingredients and mix well. 


Bake 20 minutes at 350°. 
ELVA BLAIR 





THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 





CORN MEAL MUFFINS 


2 cups corn meal 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1% cup flour 12 teaspoon soda 

WY cup lard 14 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar Sour milk 


Mix dry ingredients. Cut in lard or bacon drippings and stir in enough 
sour milk to make a soft batter. Bake in hot oven 475° 25-30 minutes. 


AGNES Parsons (Mrs. D. H.) 


CORN BREAD STICKS 


1144 cups corn meal 1 egg 
¥% cup boiling water 1 teaspoon salt 
14 teaspoon soda 1 tablespoon melted butter 


1 cup buttermilk 


Pour boiling water over corn meal. Add soda to buttermilk and pour 
half of it into the meal. Stir well. Add egg, beat, then add remainder of 
milk, salt and melted butter. Pour into greased bread stick pans and 
bake in 450° oven about 20 minutes or until brown. 


Mrs. WALTER WHITE 


BUTTERMILK BISCUITS 


2 cups plain flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 
%4 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon salt 
Y2 cup lard Approx. % cup buttermilk 


Cut in well with blender. Mix with enough buttermilk to make soft 
dough, (approximately 34 cup). The soft consistency of the dough is 
the secret of good biscuits. Put approximately 14 teaspoon lard on top 
each biscuit. Bake about 10 minutes in 450° oven. 


SCOVIA POSTON 


Frances Haworth substitutes 3 teaspoons baking powder and 5 table- 
spoons shortening to this recipe. 


Ellamae Farlow uses 4 tablespoons shortening and 2/3 cup buttermilk. 


BREAD 





OATMEAL MUFFINS 


1 cup rolled oats 1 egg 

1 cup buttermilk or sour milk 1 cup sifted flour 

43 cup soft shortening 1 teaspoon baking powder 
¥2 cup brown sugar YW teaspoon soda 


1 teaspoon salt 


Soak roiled oats and milk for one hour. Cream together shortening and 
sugar and add egg. Sift together the dry ingredients and add alternately 
with buttermilk. Fill greased muffin tins 34 full and bake in 400° 
oven for about 20 minutes. 


Three cups dry bran may be mixed with dry ingredients and the rolled 
Oats omitted for delicious bran muffins. 


GENEVIEVE BOYNTON (Mrs. A. B.) 


SOUTHERN BATTER BREAD 


1 pint corn meal 1 heaping tablespoon melted 
1 teaspoon soda shortening 
1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 


1 cup buttermilk 


Put meal in mixing bowl. Add enough boiling water to make a batter 
the consistency of thick cream after buttermilk, in which soda has been 
dissolved, has been added. Beat eggs lightly and add with salt and 
melted shortening. Bake in deep pan 45 minutes to 1 hour. This amount 
makes large quantity and may be halved for small family. 

LELIA HILL (Mrs. J. C.) 


BUTTERMILK WAFFLES 


¥%4 cup flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 
4 teaspoon soda 2 eggs, well beaten 
144 teaspoon salt ¥%4 cup buttermilk 


5 tablespoons cooking oil 


Sift together the flour, soda, salt, baking powder. Add part of the dry 
mixture to the beaten eggs, then small amount of buttermilk. Continue 
to alternate three times using all of flour mixture and enough buttermilk 
to make a thin batter. Add cooking oil and stir well. Cook immediately. 
Chopped nuts or drained blueberries may be sprinkled over the batter 
as soon as it is poured into the iron for variety. 





THE QUAKER CooK BOoK 





PANCAKES 
1 cup plain flour 1% cup melted butter 
2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup milk 
1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 


1 tablespoon baking powder 


Sift first four ingredients together. Mix butter, egg and milk and 
thoroughly mix and stir into flour. Allow to stand 15 minutes. Cook 
on medium hot griddle. 

BLAKE THOMPSON 


POPOVERS 
2 eggs 1 cup sifted flour 
1 cup milk 12 teaspoon salt 


Beat all ingredients in small bow! of electric mixer until smooth. Melt 
generous amount of butter or margarine in heavy muffin tins or pyrex 
cups. Pour batter into heated pans and bake at 425° until golden 
brown, about 35 minutes. 


SOUTHERN SALLY LUNN 


1 quart flour 1 tablespoon butter 
3 eggs 1 yeast cake 


Dissolve yeast cake in a little luke warm water. Beat egg yolks, stir in 
yeast, melted butter, milk, and flour. Beat egg whites stiff and fold into 
mixture. Set to rise in a loaf cake pan overnight in a warm place. Bake 
in moderate oven. 

Mrs. A. M. BRIGGS 


WHOLE WHEAT PANCAKES 


1 egg 2 cups whole wheat flour 

1 tablespoon molasses 2 tablespoons corn meal 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons melted shorten- 
1 teaspoon salt ing or cooking oil 

2 cups milk 


Beat egg well. Add milk and molasses and beat. Blend in dry 
ingredients. Add shortening melted and cooled. Bake on a hot griddle. 


LELIA T. CLINARD (Mrs. John) 


10 


BREAD 








ROLLS 
1 pint lukewarm water 1 cake yeast dissolved in %4 
43 cup shortening cup lukewarm water 
1 teaspoon salt Flour about 3 times amount of 
2 tablespoons sugar liquid 


¥2 cup mashed potato 


Pour water over shortening, salt, sugar, and potato. Add dissolved yeast. 
Sift in the flour, beating with stiff egg beater as long as possible. Work 
in sufficient flour to make medium dough. Knead until elastic. Allow 
to rise until double in quantity. Roll out about 4 inch in thickness. 
Cut with round biscuit cutter. Brush over with melted butter—place in 
greased muffin pans, laying one on top of another. Let rise until very 
light. Bake about 20 minutes in moderately hot oven (400° to 425°). 


Miss ELVA BLAIR 


SPOON BREAD 


1 cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups sweet milk 2 eggs 

1 tablespoon butter or mar- 1 tablespoon sugar, if desired 
garine 


Cook corn meal and milk together until consistency of mush, stirring 
constantly. Add melted shortening, salt and sugar. Beat eggs separately. 
Add yolks to corn meal mixture, lastly fold in egg whites. Bake in 
greased casserole about 30 minutes at 350°. 


LAURA WHITE (Mrs. Murray) 


SPOON BREAD 


1 cup corn meal 1 egg 

34 cup boiling water ¥Y2 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup buttermilk 

1 tablespoon sugar 114 tablespoons melted Crisco 


Put the meal into a bowl and pour the boiling water over it. Cover and 
let stand until cool. Add salt, sugar and beaten egg. Dissolve soda in 
buttermilk and add to the batter. Mix well. Add melted Crisco. Pour 
into a deep greased baking dish and bake in hot oven (375°) for 30 


5 minutes. 
Se tee Lucy JARRETT (Mrs. E. H.) 


nnn 
11 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 








@UICK ROLLS 


34 cup milk 414 tablespoons butter 
14 cup sugar 2 envelopes yeast 
144 teaspoons salt 3¥4 cup warm water 


6 cups sifted flour 


Scald the milk, add sugar, salt, and butter and cool to lukewarm. 
Soften yeast in warm water and whip until frothy. Add milk mixture 
and half the flour. Beat until smooth and add remaining flour. Turn 
out on floured board and knead. Let rise one hour, then punch down 
and make out rolls required for immediate use. Balance of dough may 
be kept in refrigerator for several days or all of dough may be made into 
rolls which may be stored in a freezer until used. 


GENEVIEVE BOYNTON (Mrs. A. B.) 


WAFFLES 
2 eggs 2 cups flour 
14%2 cups milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 
6 tablespoons shortening 1 teaspoon salt 


2 tablespoons sugar 


Beat egg yolks, add sugar, milk and melted shortening. Sift together dry 
ingredients and combine with the first mixture. Mix well. Fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites and bake in hot waffle iron. 


Lucy JARRETT (Mrs. E. H.) 


WHOLE WHEAT ROLLS 


43 cup shortening 1 pkg. granulated yeast 

43 cup sugar 2 well beaten eggs 

1 cup scalded milk 6 to 8 cups whole wheat flour 
1 cup boiled mashed potatoes 1144 teaspoons salt 


Combine first four ingredients. Dissolve yeast in 12 cup potato water 
cooled to room temperature. Add yeast and eggs. Add flour and salt 
to make soft dough. Knead well. Cover. Chill. About 114 hours before 
serving time make into desired shapes. Allow to rise. Bake. 


LELIA T. CLINARD (Mrs. John) 





12 





GRAPENUTS BREAD 


1 cup Grapenuts 3 cups flour 
1 beaten egg 1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups milk 4 teaspoons baking powder 


Y2 cup sugar 


Combine Grapenuts, egg, milk and let stand about % hour. Add sugar. 
Sift together flour, salt and baking powder and add to mixture. Mix 
thoroughly, Pour into well-oiled loaf pan. Bake one hour in moderate 
oven (350°). 

MARY FEAGINS (Mrs. Carroll), Guilford College 


ROLLS SUPREME 


2 cup shortening 1 package yeast 
2 heaping tablespoons sugar 1% cup warm water 
Ya cup hot water poured over 1 teaspoon salt 
shortening and sugar; stir 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 egg 14 teaspoon soda 


342 cups flour 


Mix shortening and sugar with hot water. Dissolve yeast in 4% cup 
warm water and mix with egg, then mix all together. Sift in flour, salt, 
baking powder, and soda. Mix well. Cover with cloth and set in 
refrigerator until ready to use. Remove from refrigerator, make into 
rolls and let rise until double in bulk. Bake in hot oven. 

BERTHA SHEETZ 


SOFT GRAHAM BREAD 


142 cups warm water VY yeast cake 

2 tablespoons molasses Y4 cup warm water 

2 teaspoons salt 14% cups white flour 
2 tablespoons fat 3 cups graham flour 


Mix liquids, salt, and fat, and dissolve yeast in the water. Add white 
flour and then enough graham flour.to make a stiff batter. Beat until 
thoroughly mixed. Let rise until very light, beat again, and pour into a 
greased pan. Let rise and bake in moderate oven. 


RACHEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 





13 


THE QUAKER CoOoK BOOK 








BANANA BREAD 


12 cup shortening & 1 stick butter 

1 cup sugar 2 eggs 

142 cups ripe banana pulp 2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda 14 cup chopped nuts 


Pinch of salt 


Mix ingredients in order given and bake in greased pan at 350° for 
one hour. 


This bread can be wrapped and frozen for future use for the lunch 
box or party sandwiches, using a cream spread. 


PEARLE SHEETZ (Mrs. J. Lloyd) 


, NUT BREAD 
4 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 
1 cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 
1 cup milk 1 cup chopped nuts 
1 egg Y2 cup raisins 


Mix well together and then with 42 cup flour knead mixture into a 
soft dough. Form into two loaves, put into buttered pans, brush tops 
with butter and let stand in warm room 20 minutes. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 


Mrs. ALICE PAIGE WHITE 


CRISP WAFFLES 
(Extra light and crisp) 


2 cups flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 
1 stick butter or margarine 2 eggs (separated) 


Mix flour, baking powder and salt. Add milk, then melted butter. Mix in 
beaten yolks. Fold in beaten whites. 


JEANETTE WILSON (Mrs. Clark) 


14 





Cakes 


FAILURES AND THEIR CAUSES 


A heavy product or the falling of a cake may be due to: Too slow an 
oven; too much sugar or fat or both; too little flour; moving the cake 
in the oven or jarring it before it is set. 

A coarse-grained product may be due to: Too slow an oven; too much 
baking powder; careless mixing of ingredients. 

Bready appearance and cracks on top may be due to: Too much flour; 
too hot an oven at first. 

Uneven rising of the product may be due to: Cake being placed near 
one side of the oven; oven being too hot on one side; too much flour. 
Rough edges may be due to: Too much sugar; too much shortening; 
too little flour. 


APPLE SAUCE CAKE 


1 cup brown sugar 1 egg 

Y% cup butter 2 teaspoons soda 

14% cups apple sauce 12 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup raisins ¥2 teaspoon each cloves, 
44 cup nuts cinnamon and allspice 
2 cups flour 


Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten egg and apple sauce. Dust raisins 
with flour and add. Add flavorings sifted with flour and soda. Add 
vanilla. Makes three layers or can be baked in loaf pan. Bake at 450 
degrees for 15 minutes. 


For filling make a hard sauce and put on cake when it is cold. 
ARTA BARKER (Mrs. J. C.) 


13 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 








APPLE SAUCE CAKE 


1 cup butter 3 cups flour 

3 eggs 2 teaspoons soda 

2 cups brown sugar Y2 teaspoon cinnamon 
2 cups apples, dried 14 teaspoon allspice 

1 lb. raisins 14 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup chopped nuts 12 teaspoon nutmeg 


Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, sift together flour, soda, 
cinnamon, allspice, cloves and nutmeg, add dry ingredients, then apples. 
Add nuts and raisins and blend all ingredients well. Pour into buttered 
pans and bake 1 hour at 350 degrees. 


To above recipe may be added a second cup of nuts, 1 cup cherry 


preserves and 1 cup fig preserves and bake in greased loaf pan 2 hours 
at 350 degrees. 


EVELYN Davis (Mrs. Harold) 


CHOCOLATE CAKE 


2 cups brown sugar Y2 cup hot water 
'% pound butter 2 cups pastry flour 
2 eggs Y2 cup buttermilk 
1 square bitter chocolate 1 teaspoon soda 


1 teaspoon baking powder 


Sift sugar, cream with butter. Beat eggs well and add to creamed sugar 
and butter. Dissolve chocolate in hot water and add. Add soda 
to buttermilk, and baking powder to flour, sifting the flour three times. 
This will keep moist for days. 


MIss EFFIE Cox 


BLACKBERRY CAKE 


1% cups sugar 3 cups flour 
Y2 cup butter 3 teaspoons baking powder 
1 cup blackberry jam 1 teaspoon salt 


14% cups milk 


Cream butter and sugar. Add jam. Sift dry ingredients and add alter- 
nately with milk. Bake in three layers at 350° for 20 minutes. Spread 
blackberry jam and whipped cream over each layer and on sides. 


LOUISE B. BAKER 


16 





CAKES 


CHEESE CAKE 


1 pkg. Zweiback 1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons melted butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

54% cakes cream cheese Y% teaspoon salt 

1 cup whipping cream 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
4 eggs 


Grind or roll Zweiback. Mix with melted butter and 2 tablespoons 
sugar. Use as a crust in 10-inch spring mold pan. Put cheese through 
ricer, add cream and sugar, then salt, flour and beaten yolks of eggs. 
Beat thoroughly. Add vanilla and lemon juice, then add stiffly beaten 
egg whites. Pour mixture into crumb crust and cook one hour at 350 
degrees. Open oven door, turn off heat, and let cake stay in oven 1 
hour before moving. Serves 10 or 12. 


ANNIE TOMLINSON HAUSER (Mrs. C. M.) 


VERY BEST DARK FRUIT CAKE 


1% lb. each of citron, coconut, 2 cups flour 

lemon peel, orange peel 1 teaspoon allspice 
1 lb. each of nutmeats, dates, Y2 teaspoon nutmeg 

candied cherries, raisins, Y teaspoon cloves 

candied pineapple 1 teaspoon salt 
1 cup shortening 1 teaspoon baking powder 
14 cup sugar 6 tablespoons fruit juice 
2 cup honey (grapefruit, orange, grape, 
5 eggs or any other juice) 


Shred the peel, chop coconut very fine, halve cherries, nutmeats, dates, 
chop candied fruit in pieces size of almonds. Dredge the fruit thoroughly 
in % cup flour. Sift remaining flour with dry ingredients, cream 
shortening with sugar, and add the honey. Stir in the eggs, well beaten, 
add dry ingredients and fruit juice alternately, blending thoroughly. 
Pour batter over the floured fruit and nuts and mix until all is well 
covered with batter. Line oiled baking tins with three layers of wax 
paper, allowing 1% inch paper to extend above all sides of pans. Pour 
all the batter into two pans, pouring lightly (do not flatten). Bake in 
slow oven, 250°, for 4 hours. Makes 5 pounds of fruit cake. 


Place flat pan containing 2 cups water in bottom of oven while baking 
cake. This is done to give cake greater volume, a better appearance, 
and a moist texture so that it is unnecessary to add extra glaze. 


IpA A. MENDENHALL (Mrs. E. E.) 


Se ae oa en dr Re ge ee 
17 


THE QUAKER Cook Book 





REFRIGERATOR CHEESE CAKE 


¥2 cup of melted butter or © 1 cup cold water 
margarine 3 eggs separated 

¥4 cup sugar 2 cups cream cheese 

2 cups fine Zwieback crumbs 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
(graham crackers or va- 1 tablespoon grated lemon 
nilla wafers) rind 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 4 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons gelatin 14 cup whipping cream 


Blend butter, 44 cup sugar, crumbs and cinnamon. Press %4 of this on 
the bottom of a 9-inch spring form pan. Soak gelatin in % cup cold 
water for 5 minutes. Cook egg yolks, remaining sugar (14 cup) and 
water (12 cup) in top of double boiler, stirring constantly until mixture 
coats a metal spoon. Add gelatin and stir until dissolved. Add gradually 
to cream cheese, and add lemon juice, rind and salt and beat thoroughly. 
Cool, when beginning to congeal beat several minutes with egg beater. 
Whip cream and fold in with stiffly beaten egg whites. Blend thoroughly. 
Pour onto crumbs. Sprinkle remaining crumbs on top. Chill until firm. 
Serves 10 to 12. 


CHOCOLATE CAKE 


1 cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y2 cup cocoa 2 cups flour 

4 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

2 cups sugar 1 cup buttermilk 


1 teaspoon soda 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs one at a time, sift flour, cocoa and 
salt three times, dissolve soda in buttermilk, add vanilla, add alternately 
with sugar, butter and eggs. Bake in layers, 25 minutes at 350°. 


Filling: 
¥3 cup sugar 1 cup milk 
2 teaspoons flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Y2 stick butter 
Cook until thick and put between layers. 


Topping: 
2 cups confectioners sugar 12 stick butter 
4 tablespoons cocoa 4 tablespoons hot coffee 


Cream, frost top and sides. 
MAUDE HaAywortH (Mrs. H. O.) 


we EAN NEN EN IG Aloe ke Re 
18 


CAKES 








CANDY STICK CAKE 


Mix in one bowl and beat together for 1 minute: 
2 eggs 14% cups sugar 
2 teaspoons grated orange rind 


_ Sift together and add to above: 


2 cups sifted cake flour Y2 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon soda 3 tablespoons cocoa 
Y2 teaspoon cinnamon 
Combine: 
Y% cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 


And add one half of liquid above to one half cup Wesson Oil—beat 
well; add remaining liquid and beat well. 


Bake in 3 layers at 375°. 


For topping and filling, whip cream and fold in % cup crushed 
peppermint candy. 
HELEN B. TOMLINSON (Mrs. S. H., Jr.) 


FIVE-LAYER COCONUT CAKE 


1 cup butter or shortening 24 teaspoon salt 

2 cups sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 
34% cups flour 1 cup milk 

5 egg yolks 


Cream sugar and butter together, add egg yolks one at a time beating 
well after each. Add alternately the dry ingredients and milk. Bake in 
well-greased and floured pans at 375° for 15 or 20 minutes. Frost. 


Coconut Frosting 


1 cup sugar 12 cup butter 

1 cup milk Whites of 3 eggs 
(Milk of coconut can be 1 tablespoon flour 
used ) 1 grated fresh coconut 


Cream butter, sugar; add flour and mix well. Add egg whites and milk 
and boil in top of double boiler until thick. Add ground or grated fresh 
coconut and boil 2 minutes. Spread between layers. Sprinkle fresh 
coconut on top and sides. 


This recipe has been handed down in our family for years. 
Daisy B. FREEMAN (Mrs. Charles) 





19 


THE QUAKER Cook BOOK 








DUTCH APPLE CAKE 


1 cup sifted flour 14 cup milk 

2 teaspoons baking powder 6 or 7 apples 

14 teaspoon salt Y cup sugar 

2 tablespoons sugar 34 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 egg : / 1% cup chopped nuts 


Sift together flour, baking powder, salt, sugar. Cut in butter. Beat 
together egg and milk and add, stirring quickly until dry ingredients are 
thoroughly moistened. Spread batter evenly in greased pan. Peel apples 
and stick ends in batter after they are chopped, placing close together. 
Mix sugar and cinnamon and dust over apples. Sprinkle with nuts. 
Cover pan and bake 15 minutes. Uncover and bake at 325° until apples 
are done. Serve hot topped with cream. 


MELITA HANING (Mrs. Ted) 


JELLY ROLL 
3 eggs 1 cup sifted flour (self-rising) 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
5 tablespoons water 1 cup jelly or jam 


Beat eggs until very light, add sugar and beat, add water and beat. 
Then add self-rising flour. (If plain, add 1 teaspoon baking powder and 
4 teaspoon salt). Bake in preheated oven at 375° for 15 minutes. 
Turn upside down on towel and waxed paper sprinkled with powdered 
sugar. Spread with jelly or jam and roll in towel. 


LoulIsE Briccs (Mrs. E. L., Sr.) 


HONEY CAKE 
1 cup butter 1 teaspoon ginger 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
2 cups honey 2 teaspoons soda 
1 cup sour milk Y% teaspoon salt 
4 cups flour 


Cream butter and honey well. Add beaten eggs, then sour milk and 
flour sifted with soda, spices and salt. Mix well. Bake in loaf pan at 
375° 30 to 40 minutes. 

AGNES L. PARSONS (Mrs. D. H.) 


20 


CAKES 








DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE 


1% cups sifted cake flour 114% teaspoons soda 
1% cups sugar 24 cup shortening 
¥Y4 cup cocoa 1 cup buttermilk 
¥4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 €£gs 


Sift flour, sugar, cocoa, salt, and soda together. Add shortening, butter- 
milk, vanilla. Beat at medium speed 2 minutes, scrape bowl while 
beating. Add unbeaten eggs and beat for 2 minutes longer, or until 
batter is smooth. Pour into 2 well-greased 8-inch layer pans. Bake 30 
to 35 minutes at 350°. Frost with any desired frosting. 


MAE Davis (Mrs. Reuben) 


ICE BOX FRUIT CAKE 


1 Ib. box graham crackers 1 lb. candied cherries, cut 
crushed 1 Ib. English walnuts 

1 Ib. box marshmallows, cut 1 Ib. pecans 

1 fresh coconut, grated - 1 can condensed milk 

12 |b. seedless raisins, cut 2 slices colored pineapple 


1% |b. dates, cut 


Mix all ingredients together with the hands until well blended, then pack 
into the pound box that the graham crackers came in and store in the 
refrigerator. This cake will keep for months. (This will all go in the 
box, so don’t give up.) 

FAYE HAyYeEs (Mrs. Clarence) 


NUT LOAF CAKE 


3 cups flour % cup milk 

134 cups sugar 1 cup nuts chopped fine 
2 teaspoons baking powder 4 eggs 

114 teaspoons salt 2 teaspoons vanilla 

1 cup shortening 1 teaspoon lemon 


Put flour, sugar, baking powder, salt in bowl. Drop in shortening. Pour 
in milk, flavoring, and 2 eggs. Beat 2 minutes with beater. Add other 
2 eggs. Beat. Fold in nuts. Pour into greased loaf pan. Bake at 350° 


for 1 hour and 15 minutes. 
VERA F. BARKER (Mrs. Luther) 


aM 


THE QUAKER COOK BOooK 








FRUIT CAKE 

1 pound butter or margarine 21% pounds currants 
1 pound sugar 2 pounds raisins 
12 eggs 1 cup diced candied pineapple 
414 cups sifted all-purpose (optional) 

flour 1 cup candied cherries 
¥Y2 teaspoon nutmeg (optional) 
14 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup chopped mixed nuts 
1 pound mixed candied peel (optional) 


Cream butter and sugar. Add 1 egg at a time, beating well after each 
addition. Add flour and spices a little at a time, beating each addition 
in well. Mix in peel, raisins, currants and other fruits and nuts desired. 
Pour into a 10-inch tube pan lined with 2 thicknesses of greased paper. 
Bake at 300° about 4 hours. Yield: 1 9-pound cake. 


HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


STEAMED FRUIT CAKE 


1 pound sugar 2 pounds large, seeded raisins 
1 pound butter 12 to % pound crystallized 

1 dozen eggs cherries 

1 pound flour 1 pound citron 

¥g teaspoon soda 12 pound figs 

Y2 pound pitted dates 2 slices crystallized pineapple 


12 pound almonds 
Few pieces mixed crystallized fruit 


Cream butter well, add sugar, well-beaten eggs, dry ingredients, and 
the floured fruits and nuts. (Part of the pound of flour should be used 
for covering the fruits and nuts). Line stem pan with brown paper 
and grease well. Pour mixture into pan and cover well or bake in large 
pudding mold with cover. Steam in pan of boiling water that reaches 
¥Y4 way up cake pan, having a rack under the cake. Boil 4 to 4% 
hours. Remove from water, also remove top, and brown slightly in 
oven 350°. Take out of oven and spoon over the hot cake 1 cup fruit 
juice. Let stand until next day. Run back in oven at 350° for 2 minutes. 
Turn pan upside down, remove cake. Cool and store in cake can. 


Recipe of Mrs. J. E. Foscue, Jamestown 
Submitted by May Tomlinson 





Jags 


CAKES 





JELLY ROLL 
14% cups pastry flour 1 cup sugar 
2 teaspoons baking powder Y2 cup warm water 
3 eggs, separated Flavoring 


Sift flour and baking powder. Beat whites stiff. Fold in sugar. Fold in 
beaten yolks. Add water, then flour lightly. Bake in wax paper lined 
long tin in hot oven. When done, spread thickly with jelly and roll 


carefully in napkin. 
MAGGIE FARLOW (Mrs. L. L.) 


PRE-FROSTED COCONUT CAKE 


Spread 3 tablespoons soft margarine in bottom and on sides of 8x8 
inch cake pan. Sprinkle over it 1 cup coconut. Mix 4% cup brown sugar 
and 1 tablespoon flour and sprinkle over coconut. Mix cake as follows: 


2 beaten eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sugar Y4 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon vanilla Y2 cup milk 

1 cup cake flour 2 tablespoons butter 


Combine eggs, sugar, vanilla and beat well. Add sifted dry ingredients. 
Heat milk and butter to boiling point and add. Pour batter into pan 
where frosting mixture has been prepared. Bake at 350° 30 to 35 
minutes. Easy and inexpensive! 


CATHERINE B. Parsons (Mrs. J. S.) 


GINGERBREAD 
2 cup sugar 1 cup hot water 
1 egg 14 cup shortening 
2% cups flour 1 cup molasses 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 14% teaspoons soda 
14 teaspoon ginger Y2 teaspoon ground cloves 


14 teaspoon salt 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add beaten egg, molasses, and the dry 
ingredients which have been sifted together. Add the hot water last and 
beat until smooth. Bake in shallow pan which has been greased and 
floured at 325° for 30 to 35 minutes. Serve warm with whipped cream 


or lemon sauce if desired. 
EpNA Y. BULLA (Mrs. James) 





2 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





WHITE FRUIT CAKE 


4 cups cake flour 2 pound each crystallized 
1 teaspoon baking powder orange peel, lemon peel, 
Y teaspoon soda pineapple, red cherries 
¥2 teaspoon salt ¥Y2 pound citron, finely cut 
1 cup butter or shortening 1 pound blanched almonds, 
142 cups sugar chopped 

10 egg whites, stiffly beaten 1 pound white raisins 


1 tablespoon lemon juice 


Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder, soda, salt, and sift together 
three times. Sift one cup of the flour mixture over fruits and nuts; mix 
thoroughly. Cream shortening and sugar until light and fluffy. Add 
remaining flour, a small amount at a time. Beat after each addition 
until smooth. Add lemon juice, fruit and nuts. Fold in egg whites. 
Pour into paper lined, greased, tube pan or small bread pans. Bake in 
slow oven (250°) for 2% hours, increasing to 300° for final 15 
minutes. Makes 6 pounds. 
NANCY K. POSTON 


FUDGE CHIFFON CAKE 


¥4 cup boiling water Y2 cup Wesson oil 

P2mCUD COCGA 7 unbeaten egg yolks 

143 cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1%4 cups sugar 1 cup egg whites 

3 teaspoons baking powder Y2 teaspoon cream of tartar 


1 teaspoon salt 


Mix boiling water with cocoa and cool, measure and sift together flour, 
sugar, baking powder and salt. 


Make a well and add in following order: 1 cup Wesson oil, unbeaten 
egg yolks, cocoa mixture, vanilla. Beat until smooth. Pour Wesson oil 
mixture over stiffly beaten egg whites and cream of tartar and whip 
until blended well. Pour into ungreased tube pan and bake 55 minutes 
at 325°, then 10-15 minutes at 350°. Turn upside down and prevent 
cake from touching table until completely cold. Loosen sides with knife, 
turn pan over and remove cake. 


MAGGIE WALTON (Mrs. Clarence) 


24 


CAKES 








ORANGE FRUIT CAKE 


¥Y2 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup. sugar 24, cup buttermilk 

2 eggs : 12 cup chopped nuts 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon grated orange rind 
¥4 teaspoon salt 1 cup seeded, chopped dates 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each 
addition. Dissolve soda in buttermilk and add with sifted flour and salt. 
Beat smooth. Then stir in grated orange rind, dates, and nuts. Cook in 
waxed-paper lined and greased 9x14 pan. Bake at 350° for 40 minutes. 
While cake is still hot, turn out and spread with 1 cup sugar mixed with 
1 teaspoon grated orange rind and %4 cup orange juice. 


CATHERINE PARSONS (Mrs. James) 


1-2-3-4-LAYER CAKE 


1 cup butter 4 eggs 

2 cups sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 
3 cups flour 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon vanilla 14 teaspoon salt 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs one at a time and beat well after 
each. Then add milk and vanilla. Sift in flour and baking powder a little 
at a time and mix well. Bake at 375° for 25 to 30 minutes. Makes four 
thick layers. Put together with seven-minute icing and banana filling. 


AGNES L. PARsons (Mrs. D. H.) 


Lucy Jarrett reduces the baking powder to 2 teaspoons in this recipe 
and bakes the cake in a loaf pan for 1% hours at 300°. 


LOAF CAKE 
4 pound pure butter 1 cup milk 
2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
3 eggs | (heaping) 
24% cups cake flour Flavoring 


Cream butter and sugar. Beat eggs with egg beater and add to creamed 
mixture. Sift flour and baking powder together and add alternately with 
milk until well mixed. Add flavoring. Bake at 300° for 1% hours. 


ETHEL STUART 





25 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





MOLASSES CAKE 


Y2 cup sugar 114%2 teaspoons soda 
1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
2¥2 cups flour Y2 teaspoon salt 

1 egg Y2 teaspoon cloves 
Y2 cup butter 1 cup hot water 


Cream sugar and butter and egg. Beat well. Add molasses, mix well. 
Combine dry ingredients and add to above mixture. Add hot water and 
stir until smooth. Bake in greased loaf pan. 35 or 40 minutes at 325°. 


NANCY BARKER 


FRUIT CAKE 
1 cup sugar 1 cup nuts 
% pound butter 4 teaspoons tart Jelly 
1 teaspoon cloves 2 eggs 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 2 cups flour 
1 cup water 1 teaspoon soda 
1 box raisins Y2 teaspoon salt 
V2 box dates 1 teaspoon baking powder 


¥4 pound citron 


Cook sugar, butter, cloves, cinnamon, water, raisins, dates, citron and 
nuts in sauce pan until raisins are soft, cool. Then add other ingredients, 
jelly first then beaten eggs, and fold in dry ingredients. Arrange nuts 
and cherries on top for decoration. Bake 112 hours in 300° oven. 


VERA F. BARKER (Mrs. Luther) 


MORAVIAN SUGAR CAKE 


Y2 cup granulated sugar 1 cup mashed potatoes 
¥Y2 cup shortening 1 yeast cake 
2 eggs A little salt 


Cream sugar, lard, and potato together, then add eggs well beaten and 
flour. Make up at night and let rise. In the morning make out in the tin 
and let rise again. Sprinkle top with brown sugar, small pieces of butter 
and cinnamon, and bake. 

Mrs. W. A. BLAIR 


26 


CAKES 








JAPANESE FRUIT CAKE 


4 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon spice 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 cups flour 1 pound chopped raisins 


Cream sugar and butter. Beat eggs well and add to creamed mixture. 
Beat well and add milk. Sift together dry ingredients and add. Beat. 
Add raisins. Mix well. Makes three 9-inch layers. Bake at 300° for 30 
minutes. Cool. Add filling. 


Filling 
2 cups sugar 2 cups coconut 
1 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons lemon juice 


Mix all ingredients and put in pot to boil. Mix 1 heaping teaspoon 
cornstarch with half cup cold water and add to filling. Boil till thick, 


cool, then use on cooled cake. 
ETHEL STUART 


HALF POUND CAKE 


1 cup butter Y teaspoon mace 
1% cups flour 5 eggs 
¥4 teaspoon baking powder 143 cups sugar 


Y% teaspoon vanilla 


Cream butter thoroughly, add flour, baking powder, and mace sifted 
together previously. Beat well. Select five eggs of uniform size and beat 
separately. When yolks are thick and lemon colored add sugar. Combine 
mixtures, beating continuously. Beat whites of eggs until stiff and dry, 
then fold into other mixture. Contrary to usual method, when egg whites 
are added, continue beating until mixture resembles thick hard sauce. 
Bake in moderate oven (325°). 


MILDRED COFFIELD (Mrs. H. I.) 


Permelia Brewer creams the sugar and butter then adds eggs one at 
a time. 


Lala Johnson doubles this receipe for a larger cake. 





27 





THE QUAKER Cook BOOK 





WHITE FRUIT CAKE 


| cup sugar 

¥g pound butter 

5 eggs 

1 fresh coconut (grated) 
2 cups flour 


Y% pound candied cherries 

1 pound white raisins 

144 pound citron 

14 pound shelled nuts 
(pecans, English walnuts, 


Ys pound candied pineapple and Brazil nuts) 


Cream butter (don’t use Oleo) and add sugar. Add eggs one at a time, 
beating well. Add fruit and nuts, mixing well, and lastly add the sifted 
flour. Bake in a tube pan which has been lined with a well-greased 
brown paper, or bake in small loaf pans, 250° for 3 hours. Makes 
five pounds. 

EpDNA Y. BULLA (Mrs. James) 


GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 


42 cup shortening 'Y% teaspoon salt 

1% cups sugar (brown) 24 large graham crackers, 
3 beaten egg yolks crushed 

¥Y2 teaspoon vanilla ¥% cup milk 

¥Y4 cup flour V2 cup chopped nuts 


1% teaspoons baking powder 3 stiff beaten egg whites 


Cream shortening and sugar, add egg yolks and vanilla, beat well, add 
sifted dry ingredients alternately with graham cracker crumbs and milk. 
Add nut meats. Fold in egg whites. Bake in 2 8-inch cake pans lined 
with waxed paper 25 minutes at 350°. Put together with brown sugar 
filling. 

BESSIE JOHNSON (Mrs. Roy) 


NUT AND DATE CAKE 


1 cup flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 


2 packages dates 
2 cups chopped English 


walnuts 1% teaspoons vanilla 
1 cup sugar Y4 teaspoon salt 
4 eggs 


Put all dry ingredients in sifter and sift over chopped nuts and dates. 
Work together. Add yolks well beaten and mix. Add stiffly beaten 
whites and vanilla. Bake in slow oven 50 minutes. 


Mrs. W. C. JOHNSON 





28 


CAKES 





TUTTI-FRUITTI CAKE 


1 No. 2 can fruit cocktail 1 large bakers angel food cake 
1 pint whipping cream 2 tablespoons sugar 


Drain fruit cocktail, whip cream, using sugar. Slice cake lengthwise. 
_ Use half of fruit cocktail and cream between layers, and use remaining 
cream on top and sides of cake. Chill. Delicious as well as pretty. 


DOROTHY VARNER BLACKWELL (Mrs. James) 


BOILED ICING 


2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y cup white Karo syrup 2 egg whites beaten 
Y2 cup cold water 


Boil first four ingredients together until it forms ball in cold water. Do 
not stir after mixing. Pour over egg whites, beating continually. Beat 
until cool. When it becomes crusty on sides of bowl spread quickly 
over cake. 

EVELYN THOMPSON (Mrs. Blake) 


PARTY DATE-NUT CAKE 


2 cups plus 2 tablespoons flour 12 cup Crisco 

112 cups sugar 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1% teaspoons vanilla 

3 teaspoons double-acting 2 unbeaten eggs 
baking powder 1 cup chopped dates 


Y% cup coarsely chopped nuts 


Sift together dry ingredients. Add Crisco, milk and vanilla and beat 
300 strokes vigorously. (2 minutes on electric beater). Add eggs and 
dates and beat 300 strokes more. Fold in nuts and pour into two 
wax-paper lined pans. Bake at 350° for 35 to 45 minutes. When cool 
frost with fresh orange icing. 


Fresh Orange Icing 


3 cups sifted confectioners 3 tablespoons orange juice 
sugar 114 tablespoons grated orange 
Y4 cup Crisco rind 


CATHERINE Parsons (Mrs. J. S.) 


29 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 








NUT LOAF 


1 cup chopped pecans 

2 cups sifted flour 

1 pound raisins (seedless) 

% cup flour for flouring nuts 
and raisins 


1 egg beaten separately 

2 cups sugar 

1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons baking powder 


Add sugar gradually to beaten yolk of egg, then dry ingredients sifted 
together alternately with milk. Next flour the nuts and raisins and add, 
and last fold in beaten white of egg. Bake about one hour in a slow 
oven in well-greased pan. 

Mrs. E. H. Morris 


Blanche Harmon Hayworth alters this receipe by using 2 eggs, 1 cup 
sugar, 242 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup black walnuts and 3 cups 
flour. Instructions are the same with one exception: Let stand 20 
minutes before baking. 


HOT MILK CAKE 


4 eggs 14 pound butter 

2 cups sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups cake flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup milk 


Beat eggs and sugar together thoroughly. Sift flour and baking powder 
together and add to eggs and sugar. Dice butter into milk and heat on 
stove. Pour into first mixture and add vanilla. Bake in moderate oven 
350°. Cool. Ice with favorite icing. 


BETTIE VARNER, SCOVIA POSTON AND BESSIE SAUNDERS 


POUND CAKE 


1 cup butter (42 pound) 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2% cups sugar Y4 teaspoon salt 

6 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup milk 3% cups flour 


Have all ingredients at room temperature. Cream butter and sugar. Add 
eggs one at a time beating well after each addition. Sift flour three times. 
Add baking powder and salt for third sifting. Add alternately with milk 
to mixture with eggs, beating thoroughly. Turn into well greased tube 
pan. Bake 142 hours at 325°. When cool cover with 7-minute frosting. 





30 


CAKES 








ORANGE DREAM CAKE 


2 cups sifted cake flour Y% teaspoon grated lemon rind 
143 cups sugar YZ cup orange juice 

2 teaspoons baking powder 43 cup water 

(tartrate powder, 4 teaspoons) 2 eggs unbeaten 

4 teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 teaspoon salt (Do not add until end of 
7% cup shortening mixing) 


1 teaspoon grated orange rind 


Sift flour, sugar, baking powder, soda, and salt into mixing bowl. Drop 
in creamed shortening (Spry). Add grated fruit rinds, orange juice 
and water and beat 200 strokes (2 minutes by mixer at low speed). 
Scrape bowl and spoon of beater. Add eggs and beat 200 strokes more. 
Add lemon juice and blend. Bake in two 8x8x2 Spry coated pans in 
moderately hot oven (375°) for 25 to 30 minutes. Chill layers. Spread 
orange cream filling between layers and on top. Garnish corners with 
orange-colored coconut and bits of green citron. Store cake in refriger- 
ator several hours before serving. Cut in 1-inch slices. 


Orange Cream Filling 


1 cup coconut 2 tablespoons orange juice 
3 teaspoons grated orange rind 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
14 cup sugar 1 cup heavy cream 


Mix coconut, orange rind, sugar, orange juice, and lemon juice. Let 
stand about 15 minutes. Whip cream. Fold into other mixture. 


IONE LOWE’sS KITCHEN 


PRUNE CAKE 
4 eggs 2 teaspoons soda 
4 tablespoons melted butter 12 teaspoon salt 
2 cups sugar 1 cup prune juice 
2 teaspoons cinnamon 24% cups flour 
2 teaspoons nutmeg © 2 cups seeded cooked prunes 
2 teaspoons cloves (not sweetened) 


Cream sugar and melted butter, add eggs one at a time, beat after 
each addition. Put soda in prune juice. Sift flour, spices and salt, add 
alternately to mixture with prune juice, beat well, add mashed prunes. 
Bake in 9-inch baking pans 25 minutes at 375°. 





at 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





SPONGE CAKE 


(Easy, Inexpensive, Sure) 


3 eggs, separated 1 cup sifted flour 

3 soupspoons water 14 teaspoon baking powder 
Y4 teaspoon lemon flavoring Pinch of salt 

1 cup sugar 


Beat the egg whites stiff and dry, add half the sugar at intervals, beating 
all the time. Beat egg yolks and water until stiff and lemon colored. 
Add half the sugar gradually, beating all the time. Add the lemon 
flavoring and salt. Unite the mixtures, still beating, and then fold in the 
flour. Bake in well-greased and floured pan 45 minutes in slow oven. 


Miss Mary S. PAIGE 


STRAWBERRY ICE BOX CAKE 


1 large box vanilla wafers '¥, pound butter 
2 eggs ¥Y2 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cups confectioners sugar 1 quart strawberries sliced 


12 pint heavy whipping cream 


Crumble vanilla wafers 44 inch deep in drip pan or one similar. Cream 
butter with two eggs beaten and confectioners sugar. Add vanilla. Pour 
over wafers. Cover this with sliced strawberries. Add layer of whipped 
cream. Cover with another layer of vanilla wafers 4% inch deep. Put 
into ice box for 24 hours. Cut in squares, serve with whipped cream 
and berry on top. 

OLIVIA CocKING (Mrs. Ron) 


SUNSHINE CAKE 


8 eggs 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon lemon or orange 
1 cup flour extract 


Beat whites of eggs stiff and dry. Add sugar gradually and continue 
beating. Then add yolks of eggs beaten until thick and lemon colored. 
Add extract. Cut and fold in flour, which has been sifted with cream of 
tartar. Bake in an unbuttered angel food pan. 


Miss MARTHA R. TAYLOR 





32 


CAKES 








BANANA FILLING (Cooked) 


1 cup mashed bananas 1 tablespoon butter or 
Y2 cup sugar margarine 
Juice % lemon 


' Combine all ingredients in saucepan and cook until thick over very 
low heat, stirring constantly to keep from scorching or sticking, cool, 
spread between layers of cake. Ice top and sides of cake with Seven- 
Minute frosting. 

SARA HUNEYCUTT 


WHITE CAKE 
2 cups sugar 3 cups flour 
Y cup butter 3 level teaspoons baking 
4 egg whites powder 


1 cup sweet milk 


Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Add milk and flour slowly. (Have 
baking powder well sifted through the flour). Add beaten whites last of 
all. Flavor with bitter almond. If made right, this is as nice as Angel 
Food. 

Miss EFFIE Cox 


SPONGE CAKE 


3 eggs 1142 cups flour 
14% cups sugar 344 cup milk 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Beat eggs, add sugar, beat well. Add flour and vanilla. Heat milk and 


add last. Bake in prepared pan at 400° 25 to 30 minutes. 
CLARENCE WALTON 


BROWN SUGAR FILLING 


1 cup brown sugar 2 stiff beaten egg whites 
14 cup water 


Cook sugar and water together to thread stage, gradually add to egg 
whites, beating constantly until mixture forms peaks. 


BESSIE JOHNSON (Mrs. Roy) 


ays. 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








TOMATO SOUP CAKE 


Y4 cup butter or margarine 2 cups sifted cake flour 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 
2 eggs, lightly beaten Y teaspoon nutmeg 

Y2 cup chopped nuts 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup chopped raisins 1 can tomato soup 


Cream butter and sugar together until fluffy. Add eggs and mix 
thoroughly. Add nuts and raisins. Sift together flour, soda, nutmeg and 
cinnamon and add alternately with tomato soup to creamed mixture, 
beating thoroughly after each addition. 


Pour into a greased loaf pan and bake in a moderate oven (350°) for 
1 hour. If baked in layers, bake only for 25 minutes. Makes 1 loaf 
(8x4 inches) or 2 9-inch layers. 


From Mrs. J. E. RoGers, Dallas, Texas 
(aunt of Howard Olive) 


WHITE CAKE 
1% cups sugar 2% cups flour 
Y2 cup butter and lard 4 egg whites 
1 cup sweet milk 12 teaspoon vanilla 
2 teaspoons baking powder 1% teaspoon almond extract 


Cream butter and lard, add sugar gradually. Mix and sift together flour 
and baking powder. Add to the first mixture alternately with the milk. 
Add vanilla and almond extracts and fold in whites of eggs beaten stiff 
and dry. Turn into well greased cake pans and bake 15 minutes in 
moderate oven. Put together with boiled frosting. 


ALENE JONES (Mrs. A. C.) 


BLACK WALNUT CAKE FILLING 


1 pint black walnut kernels %4 cup water 
1 cup sugar 1 egg 


Boil sugar and water until forms soft ball when dropped in cold water. 
Take off flame and add kernels and beaten egg. Spread between 
favorite layer cake. Make white cream frosting for top and sides. 


CHARLENA B. MAcHADO (Mrs. Tony) 





34 


CAKES 








MAMIE'S WHITE CAKE 


1 cup butter 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

2 cups sugar Y2 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup water 2¥2 teaspoons baking powder 
3 cups pastry flour 8 egg whites 


Cream butter and sugar. Sift flour three times. Add flour and water 
alternately. Add baking powder in last addition of water. Add lemon 
and vanilla. Beat egg whites stiff and fold in lightly. Bake in large tube 
pan. Place in cold oven. Turn temperature to 275° and bake about an 
hour to hour and a half or until straw comes out clean. (Four whole 
eggs may be used instead of 8 whites). 


MAMIE J. WRIGHT 


CARAMEL-ALMOND FROSTING 


(Here is a frosting that is good on any kind of cake, and it’s easy to 
make and never fails.) 


Combine 5 tablespoons butter with 144 cup evaporated milk, a dash of 
salt, and one cup brown sugar (packed). Heat this mixture, stirring 
until it boils. Remove from heat and stir in 3 cups sifted confectioners 
sugar, a little at a time and then add % cup chopped unblanched 
almonds. 


Spread over loaf cake or uniced cup cakes, or use it to dress up your 
favorite plain cookies. 
HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


CHOCOLATE ICING 


2 cups sugar 12 cup water 
34 cup cocoa Y% cup butter (1 stick) 


Pinch of salt 


Mix sugar, salt, cocoa. Add water and bring to a slow boil in heavy 
cooker. Stir frequently and keep covered until it boils. Then boil rapidly 
for 2 minutes. Pour over butter, let cool, then beat and spread on cake. 


BETTIE VARNER 


35 


THE QUAKER CooK Book 








RICH UNCOOKED ICING 


4 tablespoons soft butter 3 cups sifted confectioners 

1 egg yolk sugar 

14% teaspoons vanilla 3 tablespoons (approximately) 
cream 


Blend butter and egg yolk. Add sugar and sufficient cream for good 
spreading consistency. Add flavoring. 


Three squares melted unsweetened chocolate may be added or the 
vanilla may be omitted and lemon juice with grated rind added for 
variety. 


MARSHMALLOW ICING 


143 cups sugar 12 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cup water 6 marshmallows cut fine 
1 tablespoon corn syrup 1 well-beaten egg white 


Mix sugar, water and corn syrup. Cover pan for the first few minutes 
of boiling. Boil to 245°. Add marshmallows to egg white and pour 
syrup over them very slowly, beating until firm enough to spread. 


NINA SAUNDERS (Mrs. H. D.) 


7-MINUTE FROSTING 


1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon white Karo 
1 egg white unbeaten Yg teaspoon salt 
¥3 cup water Y2 teaspoon vanilla 


Place sugar, egg white, water, Karo in top of double boiler over rapidly 
boiling water. Beat until mixture will hold a peak. Remove from heat, 
add vanilla and salt. Continue beating until frosting is of spreading 
consistency. 


LELIA T. CLINARD (Mrs. John) 





36 


CAKES 








CHOCOLATE FROSTING 


2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon corn starch or flour 
3 or 4 tablespoons cocoa 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 egg 


Mix all ingredients, cook until thick enough to spread. 


Daisy B. FREEMAN (Mrs. Charles) 


CREAM CHEESE FROSTING 


Frostings that are never too hard—never too soft, always spread 
beautifully—keep fresh longer, and—extra luscious, too. 


Blend together a 3 ounce package of Philadelphia brand cream cheese 
(or 6 level tablespoons) and one tablespoon milk. Gradually blend 
in 212 cups sifted confectioners sugar. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla. 


HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


CHOCOLATE FUDGE CAKE FILLING OR FROSTING 


3 ounces chocolate 34 cup canned milk 
1 beaten egg 14 cup water 
1 cup sugar 


Cook in double boiler about 20 minutes. Beat and add 1 teaspoon 


vanilla. Keeps soft even in refrigerator. 
BERTHA SHEETZ 


37 





38 


THE QUAKER CooK BOoK 


ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


% 





JE fe 1eveEsee 


=a 
= 
kee 


eo 


| 


= 
~ 







aps ry | 


K 
af 


a” 
tl 
¢ 


ae 
a 





Candies 


CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 


6 medium oranges 1 cup water 

2 cups sugar 
Choose oranges without blemishes. Halve and remove pulp. Cover with 
cold water and bring to boil. Then reduce heat, cover and cook 
gently for 30 minutes. Drain. Again cover with cold water, bring to 
boil. Then reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes. Repeat. 


Cut rinds in quarters, then with teaspoon remove all white membrane 
from rinds. Cut into 1% inch strips. 


Mix sugar and water. Bring mixture to boil, stirring constantly until the 
sugar is dissolved. Add rind and cook over low heat until the rind is 
clear and syrup has almost evaporated. Remove rind with a fork and 
place on cake rack to drain thoroughly. Then roll, a few pieces at a 
time, in sugar. Shake off excess. Place on wax paper to dry. Store in 
air tight container. Makes 1 pound. 


FAYE HAyeEs (Mrs. Clarence) 


SEAFOAM 
2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 egg white Y2 cup nut meats 


Add enough water to sugar to moisten well and cook until it forms a 
hard ball in cold water. Pour slowly over beaten white of egg. Add 
vanilla and nuts just before hard enough to drop on waxed paper. 


Miss MARTHA R. TAYLOR 





39 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








CREAM CANDY 


(This candy came from a secret recipe from a professional candy 
maker, Clyde, Ohio.) 


6 cups granulated sugar 2 cups white Karo syrup 
2 cups sweet cream 


Cook to 234°, let cool. Then add 2 cups chopped meats of nuts. Add 
flavoring —1 teaspoonful of vanilla and 1 of lemon extract. Do not 
beat until perfectly cool. A wonderful Christmas candy. 


HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


PEANUT BUTTER TWIRLS 


1 box confectioners’ sugar 2 tablespoons melted butter or 
1 tablespoon vanilla margarine 
Milk Peanut butter 


To box of sugar (save out just enough to sprinkle on rolling board) add 
vanilla and melted butter or margarine. Add just enough milk to get 
mixture to consistency for handling. This will be a very scant amount. 
Keep mixture more on the dry side, yet not crumbly. Roll out entire 
mixture or pat out to about 342 to 4 inches in diameter—not thin. 
Spread whole surface with peanut butter. Now roll into long roll to 
about 4% inch in diameter. Cut into pieces about an inch long or as 
desired. May be stored in refrigerator for short while to firm. 


FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. H. K.) 


BUTTERMILK FUDGE 


3 cups white sugar 1 box Baker’s Coconut or 1 
2 tablespoons butter (or butter cup nuts 
substitute ) Y2 cup buttermilk 


Mix sugar and buttermilk. Cook until small quantity will form soft ball 
in water. Remove from over heat, add butter and beat until creams. 
Add coconut or nuts and pour into shallow pan and let stand few 
minutes then cut into squares. 

i Mary ALICE SICELOFF 


40 





CANDIES 


CREAMY CHOCOLATE FUDGE 


2 cups sugar (white) 4 heaping tablespoons cocoa 
2 cups brown sugar 14% cups milk 
1 teaspoon salt 


Mix the first four ingredients together. Add milk and stir until smooth, 
Cook on medium heat until forms soft ball in cold water. Remove from 
fire and add 1 teaspoon vanilla. 


Pour into three plates. Add 2 tablespoons butter on each plate. Cool 
for thirty minutes. Beat each plate, one at a time, until candy thickens. 
Drop with teaspoon to wax paper. 

ELIZABETH R. POSTON 


CHOCOLATE FUDGE 


2 cups sugar 1% cup walnut meats, if 
4 tablespoons cocoa desired 

2 teaspoon salt 14 stick butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla 44 cup top milk 


Mix together well sugar, cocoa and salt. Add cream. Put over fire and 
stir constantly until a little dropped in cold water forms a soft ball. 
Remove from fire. Add butter and let stand until rather thick. Do not 
stir while cooling. Beat till thick and pour on waxed paper. Cut in 


squares. 
BESSIE JOHNSON (Mrs. Roy) 


DIVINITY FUDGE 


224 cups white sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

24 cup white Karo syrup 1 cup nuts 

2% cup cold water 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 egg whites 


Stir sugar, Karo and water well, boil without stirring until it forms hard 
ball in water. Pour over stiffly beaten egg whites. Do not scrape pan. 
Beat continually. When cool add vanilla, nuts and baking powder. 
Drop by teaspoon on wax paper or cut in squares. 


EVELYN THOMPSON (Mrs. Blake) 


ney 
41 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





CANDIED GRAPEFRUIT PEEL 


4 grapefruit rinds 2 quarts water 
Y3 cup Salt 4 cups sugar 


Soak grapefruit peel in salt water over night. Rinse well. Cut in desired 
pieces. Bring to boil in open kettle twice, with fresh water enough to 
cover. Rinse. Place peel in pressure cooker with 1 cup water and cook 
20 minutes at 15 Ibs. pressure. Drain and put in open kettle with sugar 
and cook slowly until sugar is absorbed. Cool slightly and roll in 


granulated sugar. 
ARTA BARKER (Mrs. J. C.) 


HOLIDAY FUDGE 


Y4 cup cocoa 1g teaspoon salt 

3 cups sugar 14% teaspoons vanilla 

3 tablespoons corn syrup 3 dozen shelled nuts (pecans 
1¥g cups evaporated milk or English walnuts) 


6 tablespoons water 
In a saucepan mix cocoa, sugar, milk and water. Cook over low heat 
until sugar dissolves. Then boil slowly, stirring occasionally, until a few 
drops form a soft ball when dropped into cold water. Cool at room 
temperature, without stirring, until candy holds a shape. Pour into 
greased tin pan. Press nuts into top of fudge while still a little soft. 
When cool cut into squares. 


About 2%4 pounds. 
DorA WARD 


PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE 


2 cups sugar Y2 cup evaporated milk di- 
4 teaspoon salt luted with 2 tablespoons 
water 


Cook slowly, stirring occasionally, to 236° or soft ball stage. Remove 
from fire and cool at room temperature without stirring until warm. 
Add: 

3 cup peanut butter 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla 
Beat until smooth and thick. Pour into buttered pan and slice into 
squares. 





42 


CANDIES 





SUPER FUDGE 

3 cups sugar 1 large can evaporated milk 

1 stick butter 
Mix together and bring to slow boil. Boil 8 minutes, stirring constantly. 
Remove from heat and add: 

1 pint marshmallow cream 

3 packages chocolate bits 
Beat until mixture begins to hold shape. Pour into pan and cut into 


squares. 
MEETA H. JACKSON 


DATE LOAF CANDY 


3 cups white sugar 2 tablespoons butter 
1 package dates (714 ounces) 1 cup nut meats 
1% cups milk 


Boil sugar, dates (cut fine) and milk until mixture reaches a temperature 
of 236° or forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Remove from 
flame and add butter. Beat until candy begins to harden, then add nut 
meats. Drop on damp cloth and form into roll. Roll in the cloth and 
when cool cut into slices, or put away and cut when needed. Will keep 


for weeks. 
BERTHA C. SHEETZ 


GLACE NUTS 


2 cups granulated sugar 1 cup (or more) of unbroken 
1 cup boiling water halves of pecans or walnuts 


1&4 teaspoon cream of tartar 

After stirring well the first three ingredients, heat to boiling point in a 
smooth sauce pan and boil without stirring until it begins to discolor 
slightly, which is at 310°. Remove from fire and set saucepan in larger 
pan of cold water, to stop boiling, then set immediately in a pan of 
boiling water on the stove, keeping water boiling so sugar will not 
harden. Dip nuts, separately, in hot syrup and drop on oiled paper or 
very smooth platter. 

Olive tongs are ideal or a long hat pin. If done correctly each nut will 


look as if encased in glass. 
ALICE PAIGE WHITE 





43 





THE QUAKER COOK Book 





PEANUT BRITTLE 


3 cups sugar 14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup white corn syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup water 2 tablespoons butter 
1 pound raw peanuts 1 tablespoon soda 


Cook the sugar, syrup and water until it forms a hard ball (250°) when 
tested in cold water. Add peanuts and continue cooking until slightly 
caramelized (300°). Remove from the fire and add the salt, vanilla, 
butter and soda. Stir until very frothy and pour onto a buttered surface. 
When slightly cooled pull out to a thin sheet. When brittle break into 
suitable pieces for serving. 


EuNICE A. PARKER (Mrs. D. R.) 


PEANUT CANDY 


2 Cups XxXxx sugar 2 heaping teaspoons peanut 
2 cup milk butter 


Mix thoroughly, boil five minutes stirring constantly. Remove from fire, 
beat well and pour into buttered pans. Cut in squares when nearly cold. 


Mrs. H. I. COFFIELD 


CANDY HINTS 


For chocolate coating add 1 tablespoon salad oil, 1 tablespoon of 
paraffin. 


Sugarless Fruit Centers—Peanuts, coconut, raisins, figs, prunes, peaches, 
apricots, juice of ¥2 lemon, 3 tablespoons honey or syrup. Dip in 
chocolate or first cover with fondant or dip in whites of egg and roll 
in nuts. 


Pistachio Prunes—Soak prunes one hour in warm water, then dry. Color 
fondant green and flavor with pistachio and stuff prunes. 


Apricot Sandwiches—To cup of fondant add 1% teaspoon orange 
extract and 42 teaspoon rose extract. Put between halves of extra fine 
dried apricots and cut in halves and roll in sugar. 





44 













ple 











AY gti 
IT Sed 






ORR SMR ee ED A Gh 2 eo 







rly f/i 


Sli 
= or : 
aD} 


=a 
\ 
aay 
. Nay J 6 
wy = 
r 
. Ns) 
» 4 {hh 
2 a tere 


Casseroles and Supper Dishes 


CORN PUDDING 


1 can corn 2 tablespoons melted butter 
2 eggs 2 tablespoons flour 
1 teaspoon salt 1% cups scalded milk 


Beat eggs and add to corn. Add salt and dash of pepper. Melt butter, 
blend in flour, add milk, and mix all ingredients together. Put in buttered 
pudding dish and bake in moderate oven until firm. 


Miss IDA E. MILLIs, Guilford College 


VEGETABLE CASSEROLE 


1 10-ounce package frozen 1 6-ounce can sliced mush- 
French style string beans rooms 

1 10-ounce package frozen 1 pint thin white sauce 
small lima beans 1 cup grated sharp cheese 


1 cup fine bread crumbs 


White Sauce 

3 tablespoons flour 1 medium onion 

1 cup chicken broth 1 cup sweet milk 

2 tablespoons chicken fat 
Saute onion in chicken fat, add flour, stock and milk. Cook string beans 
and limas as directed on package. Drain. In 112 quart casserole, put 
layers of string beans, limas, mushrooms and sauce. Top with mixture 
of cheese and bread crumbs. Bake at 350° for 20 minutes and brown 


on top. Serves 8. 
ANNIE TOMLINSON HAUSER (Mrs. C. M.) 





45 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








KIDNEY BEAN CASSEROLE 


1 pound ground or chopped 1 can tomato soup (undiluted) 
beef 1 can kidney beans 

1142 medium onions, chopped 1 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons fat Ye teaspoon pepper 

4 ounces cooked elbow 1 teaspoon chili powder 
macaroni Y% cup grated sharp cheese 


Brown beef and onions in fat. Add soup and simmer 15 minutes. Add 
macaroni, beans and seasonings and heat. Pour into casserole. ik with 
grated cheese. Bake 20 minutes at 375°. 


RuTH CASEY (Mrs. Silas B.) 


APPLE AND TOMATO CASSEROLE 


1 No. 2 can quartered or 14 teaspoon salt 
sliced apples % teaspoon nutmeg 

1 No. 2 can tomatoes 3 slices bread 

¥g pound margarine Y2 cup sugar 


Toast the bread. Grease casserole, place a layer of apples in bottom, 
then a layer of tomatoes (lifting tomatoes out of can with a perforated 
spoon). Sprinkle sugar, salt and nutmeg, cover with a layer of toasted 
crumbs and dots of margarine. Repeat until ingredients are used having 
buttered crumbs on top. Bake 45 minutes at 350°. 


ETHEL D. TOMLINSON (Mrs. S. H.) 


TOMATO RAREBIT 


2 tablespoons butter, melted ¥%4 cup milk 
2 tablespoons flour 


Make sauce of above ingredients and then add: 


Ye teaspoon soda in %4 cup % teaspoon salt and % tea- 
strained tomatoes spoon mustard beaten into 
2 cups diced cheese 1 egg 


Dash cayenne 
Serve on crisp crackers. 


FRANCES HAWORTH (Mrs. Horace S.) 


46 


CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 





BAKED EGGS 


Make a thickening of: 
1 tablespoon flour Y2 cup sweet milk 


Pour this into a shallow pan and break six eggs into it. Over these 
_ sprinkle a large tablespoon of grated cheese, butter the size of a walnut. 
Pepper and salt to taste. Bake in moderate oven and serve hot. 


DEBORAH PARKER (Mrs. A. S.) 


CORN MEAL SOUFFLE 
1 pint milk 4 eggs 
3 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt 
¥Y4 cup corn meal 


Scald milk. Stir in meal, butter and salt. Cook in double boiler or thick 
pan until mixture thickens. Separate yolks and whites. Beat yolks well 
and add to milk and meal mixture. 


When cool fold in the lightly beaten whites. Pour in greased casserole 
and bake about 20 minutes at 350°. 


May L. TOMLINSON (Mrs. C. F.) 


EGG SUPPER DISH 


8 eggs 12 teaspoon prepared mustard 
14 cup butter 1 teaspoon minced parsley 
Y2 teaspoon Worcestershire 1 tablespoon grated onion 
sauce 1% cup ground ham 
1 cup grated American cheese 
Sauce 
% cup butter 1 cup thin cream 
5 tablespoons flour Salt, pepper, paprika to taste 


1 cup hot boullion 


Boil 8 eggs. When cool remove yolks and crush. Mix % cup melted 
butter, 1% teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 4% teaspoon prepared 
mustard, 1 teaspoon minced parsley, 1 tablespoon grated onion, 4% 
cup ground ham. Add this to yolks and put in shells. Place in shallow 
pan and sprinkle with 1 cup grated American cheese. Pour sauce over 
all and bake in 325° oven for 20 minutes. 


JuDY CONRAD HAworTH (Mrs. H. S., Jr.) 


Tee ta bat ae Se ee CL 9 i ea 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





SAVORY DEVILED EGGS ON TOAST 


2 tablespoons minced green Y teaspoon salt 

pepper 14% cups milk 
2 tablespoons butter 6 sliced, shelled, hard boiled 
2 tablespoons flour eggs 
| teaspoon prepared mustard 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
2 tablespoons chili sauce sauce 


Cook pepper in butter in top of double boiler until tender. Add flour 
and blend. Add mustard, chili sauce, Worcestershire, salt and milk and 
cook over boiling water until smooth and thickened, stirring constantly. 
Add eggs. Heat well and serve on toast. Serves 6. (Main course, good 
for lunch). 

SUE S. PARKER (Mrs. Allen) 


CHEESE FONDUE 


1 cup bread crumbs 1 egg 
¥Y4 cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 
142 cups grated cheese Y teaspoon salt 


¥g teaspoon pepper 


In double boiler cook crumbs and milk until smooth and thick, add 
butter, cheese, salt, pepper, and cook a few minutes. Remove from heat 
and add beaten egg yolk, then fold in stiffly beaten white of egg and 
bake in a buttered dish in moderately hot oven for 20 minutes or until 
brown on top. 

Miss STELLA ANDERSON 


BROWNED HASH 


1 cup meat 4 tablespoons fat 
1 cup mashed potatoes Salt and pepper 
43 cup boiling water Onion juice 


Chopped parsley 


Spread mixture smoothly in a frying pan in which 1 tablespoon fat has 
been heated. Cook over moderate heat so that it will brown slowly. 
Cook about % hour and do not stir. Fold like an omelet. 


The same mixture may be made into small cakes and browned in the 
same way. 


RACHEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 


48 


CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 








CHICKEN RING 


1 4 pound hen, cooked 4 well beaten eggs 

2 cups soft bread crumbs 3 cups chicken stock 

1 teaspoon salt Y2 cup chicken fat 

¥g teaspoon paprika Y cup chopped pimento 


Remove chicken from bones and cut in large pieces. Combine in order 
given. Mix well, pack in buttered ring mold, and bake in 325° oven— 
45 to 60 minutes. Let stand 10 minutes after removing from oven. Turn 
on platter and fill center with mushroom sauce. Garnish with pimento 
and parsley. 

Mushroom Sauce 


¥Y3 cup butter V3 teaspoon paprika 
Ys cup flour 1 teaspoon parsley 

2 pound mushrooms 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
2 cups chicken stock 2 egg yolks well beaten 


Melt butter, add mushrooms and other ingredients. Cook in double 
boiler until thick, stirring constantly. 


MILDRED COFFIELD (Mrs. H. I.) 


BROWN DERBY HAMBURGERS 


2 pounds ground sirloin 2 tablespoons Worcestershire 
1 raw egg sauce 

Y% teaspoon English mustard 2 cups chicken broth 

| tablespoon salt 2 teaspoons chicken fat 


1 teaspoon black pepper 


Mix meat, egg, broth, add chicken fat and rest of ingredients. Broil. Use 
one cup meat mixture to a serving. Serve with brown sauce, made like 
white sauce, only the flour is browned. 


Browned Sauce 


2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons Sauce Diablo 
2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
2 cups veal or chicken stock sauce 

1 teaspoon English mustard % cup ketchup 


Boil well, pour over hamburger when ready to serve. 


HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


49 


THE QUAKER COOK BOoK 





CHEESE SOUFFLE 


3 tablespoons flour 3 level tablespoons butter 
3 eggs 1 cup milk 
1 cup grated cheese Salt and pepper to taste 


Put butter and flour together in sauce pan and stir till blended without 
browning. Add milk a little at a time, stir until the mixture boils, then 
add the grated cheese, salt and pepper and set aside to cool. 

Beat the egg yolks and whites separately, add the yolks to the mixture 
in the sauce pan and blend thoroughly. Lastly fold in egg whites beaten 
to a stiff froth and turn the souffle into a deep well greased baking dish. 
Bake in moderate oven about 25 minutes. Serve at once. 


STELLA HIATT (Mrs. Wade) 


RICE OMELET WITH CHEESE SAUCE 
(For 3 People) 
2 eggs 1 cup hot boiled rice, drained 
| tablespoon water Salt and pepper 
Beat whites of eggs very stiff. Beat yellows and add hot rice and 
seasonings. Then fold in beaten whites. Pour in buttered skillet and 
when done, fold. 
Cheese Sauce 
Make a white sauce of: 


2 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 
2 tablespoons flour Salt, pepper 


Then add % cup grated cheese and pour around omelet. Make this 
sauce before you make the omelet. 


ANNIE HAUSER (Mrs. C. M.) 


STUFFED FRANKFURTERS 


12 cups grated cheese 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
1 tablespoon onion, chopped sauce 
fine Salt and pepper to taste 


Mix ingredients and heap in franks which have been pre-cooked and 
split open to make boats. Place franks filled with cheese stuffing in 
pan and bake in oven (350°) 20 to 30 minutes. 


FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. H. K.) 





50 


CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 





GOULASH 
1 pound hamburger Y2 cup water 
1 large onion 1 can chicken gumbo soup 
2 tablespoons mustard 4 tablespoons catsup 


- Put hamburger in frying pan, add water and cut up onion, also salt and 
pepper to season and let cook until hamburger is done but not browned. 
Add soup and bring to boil. Reduce heat, add mustard and catsup and 
let simmer about 3 minutes. 


Serve over warmed hamburger rolls. 
Mrs. EDwIn E. HILL 


CREAMED DRIED BEEF IN TOMATOES 


6 medium tomatoes Yg teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons butter 144 pound dried beef 
4 tablespoons flour 1 cup grated cheese 

2 cups milk Buttered bread crumbs 


Select firm, smooth tomatoes. Cut piece from stem of each and remove 
centers without breaking shells. Sprinkle each tomato on inside with 
salt and pepper. Melt 4 tablespoons butter, add flour, blend well. Add 
milk and stir constantly until sauce thickens; add grated cheese. Fold 
in shredded dried beef and fill tomato shells. Cover with buttered 
crumbs and place in buttered baking dish. Bake in oven 375° for 35 
minutes or until tender. Use tomato pulp for making soup. 


SAUSAGE MACARONI CASSEROLE 


1 package (8 oz.) elbow 2 tablespoons flour 
macaroni Y2 teaspoon salt 

14 pound sausage 1% cups milk 

1 onion, chopped 2 cups American cheese 

14 green pepper (sliced) (grated ) 


Cook macaroni according to directions on package. Drain. Fry sausage, 
onion and green pepper until lightly browned. Stir in flour, salt and 
milk. Cook over low heat until thickened, stirring constantly. Place 
alternate layers of macaroni and cheese in greased casserole and pour 
sauce over all. Bake 25 minutes at 400°. 


LALA G. JOHNSON (Mrs. Edgar) 





=| 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








CORNED BEEF PATTIES 


2 cups all purpose flour 6 tablespoons shortening 
1 teaspoon baking powder 1 egg yolk slightly beaten 
2 teaspoon salt 4 cup milk 


Sift dry ingredients; add shortening and mix thoroughly with fork. Add 
egg to milk, add to dry mixture to make soft dough. Roll out half the 
dough 1% inch thick; cut into quarters. Fit each into muffin pan; fill 
with corned beef mixture, and fold the corners of the pastry over to the 
center. Pinch these corners together at the top. Repeat with the 
remaining dough. Bake in hot oven at 425° for about 20 minutes. 
Serves 8. 
Corned Beef Filling 


2 tablespoons butter 14% cups cooked corned beef 
44 cup chopped onion cut in pieces 
2 tablespoons flour 1% cups canned tomatoes 


Few grains black pepper 


Melt butter; add onion; cook slowly until soft. Add flour; stir until well 
blended. Add the remaining ingredients; bring to a boil, stirring 
constantly until thick and smooth; let simmer about 10 minutes. 


HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


CHICKEN TETRAZZINE 


'¥2 pound macaroni, noodles 1 hen, boiled and cut up 

or spaghetti (cooked) Y cup almonds blanched and 
1 can B & B mushrooms cut 

(chopped) White Sauce 

White Sauce 

3 tablespoons butter or 1 cup heavy cream heated and 

chicken fat added to sauce after remov- 
2 tablespoons flour ing it from heat. 


2 cups chicken broth 


Put layer of macaroni in greased casserole, add some of the white 
sauce. Put layer of chicken. Scatter almonds and mushrooms. Make 
second layer of macaroni, sauce, chicken, almonds and mushrooms. 
Put sauce on top. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese. Bake at 
375° until well heated and slightly brown. (Celery may be cooked in 
stock and strained.) 

Miss JESSIE MAY YOUNG 


52 


CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 





CHICKEN JAMBOLAYA 


Iecuprrice 1% green pepper (chopped 

2 tablespoons Wesson oil fine ) 

1% _cups chicken broth 12 small can pimentos 

2 cups chopped chicken (chopped fine) 
(cooked) | 1 cup nuts (chopped) 

1 cup chopped celery Y cup orange juice 


Brown rice in Wesson oil. Combine with chopped ingredients in baking 
dish. Cover with chicken broth and allow to steam in oven at 350° 
for 45 minutes. 


LUNA DAILE PARKER (Mrs. A. S., Jr.) 


HAMBURGER PIE 


1 medium onion, chopped 1 pound ground beef 
2 cups cooked green beans, 1 can condensed tomato soup 
peas or lima beans Salt and pepper 


5 potatoes cooked and mashed 


Brown onion in hot fat. Add meat and seasonings and brown. Add 
beans and soup. Pour in greased casserole and spoon mashed 
potatoes on top. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. A good dish to be 
prepared ahead of time. 


MARIETTA T. WriGHT (Mrs. Richard) 


PORK AND SAUERKRAUT CASSEROLE 


4 loin pork chops 1 cup water 
3%4 cup uncooked rice Salt to taste 
2 medium onions 1 No. 2%% can sauerkraut 


2 medium size apples 


Place four loin pork chops, salt and pepper in a 242 quart casserole. 
Arrange on top of chops layers of rice, onions, sauerkraut and apple 
slices, each laver sprinkled with salt and pepper. Pour one cup of water 
over and bake in covered dish at 350° for 1 hour. Uncover and 
continue baking for 15 minutes longer. 


Try this for a change—it’s delicious on a cold winter day! 
MELVINA Davis (Mrs. W. Banner) 


53 





THE QUAKER CooK Book 





HUNTINGTON CHICKEN 


2 cups macaroni 3 tablespoons pimento, 

¥2 tablespoon butter chopped 

¥Y2 tablespoon flour 1 cup hot chicken broth 

Y2 cup cream, scalded 2 cups diced cooked chicken 
1 cup grated cheese Salt and pepper 


Cook macaroni. Make cream sauce of butter, flour, and cream. Add 
cheese, pimento, chicken broth and mix. Add chicken and macaroni 
and seasonings. Pour into buttered casserole. Bake at 350° for 30 to 
45 minutes. Serves 6 to 8. 


HAMBURGER CORN PONE PIE 


1 pound ground beef 1 cup canned tomatoes 

3 cup chopped onion 1 cup drained canned kidney 

1 tablespoon shortening beans 

2 teaspoons chili powder 1 cup corn bread batter 

¥4 teaspoon salt (14 package corn muffin mix 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire or 12 standard corn bread 
sauce recipe ) 


Brown meat and chopped onion in shortening. Add seasonings and 
tomatoes. Cover and simmer over low heat for 15 minutes. Add kidney 
beans and pour mixture into a greased 1 or 1% quart casserole. Top 
with cornbread batter, spreading carefully with wet knife. Bake 20 
minutes in 425° oven. 

EVELYN Davis (Mrs. Harold) 


LAURA WHITE (Mrs. Murray) 


BAKED PEPPERS STUFFED 


6 sweet peppers 1 cup chicken, beef or other 
¥Y2 cup rice or bread crumbs meat chopped fine 
1 onion 2 tomatoes 


Mince onion and add to rice, meat, chopped tomato and season with 
salt and pepper to taste. Stuff peppers with mixture and put a little 
butter on top of each stuffed pepper. Stand upright in baking dish, pour 
around a little meat stock with fat in it and bake, basting frequently, 
until peppers are tender. 

RAE DAVIS 





54 





CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 





CURRIED CHICKEN 


1 cup chopped onions 1 cup chicken stock 

I tablespoon fat or cooking oil Y cup milk 

2 teaspoons curry powder 3 eggs (beaten well) 
2 tablespoons flour 1 cup stewed chicken 


44 teaspoon salt 


Saute onions in fat. Make a paste of curry powder, flour, salt, and part 
of chicken stock. Add paste to onions, then add remainder of stock. 
Cook mixture until thick. Add milk and stir well. Then add well beaten 
eggs and finally chicken meat. Cook just until eggs are completely 
done. Serve hot over rice cooked dry. 


FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. Howard) 


NOTE: For a festive meal add a sprinkle of toasted almonds and 
coconut on top of individual servings or for buffet meal have 
dishes of them handy to add. 


STELLA HiaTT (Mrs. Wade) 


CHICKEN LIVER SAUCE FOR SPAGHETTI 


12 chicken livers Y2 teaspoon meat glaze 
6 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons tomato paste 
4 finely chopped cloves garlic Y2 cup stock 
2 large, finely chopped onions 2 tablespoons chopped, mixed 
8 or 10 chopped mushrooms fresh herbs 
(large) 1 bowl grated cheese 
Salt and pepper 5 skinned coarsely chopped 
1 pinch dry mustard tomatoes 


1 tablespoon flour 


Brown the chicken livers very quickly in a little hot butter and remove. 
Place in the pan the remaining butter and the garlic; cook for one 
minute. Add the onions and cook fairly quickly until they begin to 
brown. Add the mushrooms and cook slowly for 5 to 6 minutes. Add 
salt, pepper and a little dry mustard and tomatoes; cook for 2 minutes. 
Remove from the fire and carefully add flour, meat glaze and tomato 
paste. Add the stock and stir over the fire until the mixture comes to a 
boil. Simmer slowly for 3 or 4 minutes. Add the herbs and the finely, 
chopped chicken livers. Simmer for 2 more minutes. Serve on cooked, 
well-drained spaghetti. Serve separately a bowl! of grated cheese. 


VIVIAN C. SULLIVAN (Mrs. Paul) 





55 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





SPAGHETTI 

¥Y2 pound spaghetti 1 4 ounce can mushrooms 
3 quarts boiling water 1 pound ground beef 
44 cup shortening (bacon fat 3 teaspoons salt 

may be used) 1 tablespoon sugar 
1 large onion chopped 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
1 green pepper chopped sauce 
1 No. 24% can tomatoes Y2 teaspoon garlic salt 
4 strips bacon 6 tablespoons grated cheese 


Break spaghetti into 2 inch pieces and cook in 3 quarts boiling, salted 
water until tender. Drain. Mince onion, green pepper and slice 
mushrooms. Cook bacon and drain on paper towel. Cook onions, 
pepper and mushrooms in bacon fat until tender, then remove from 
fat. Brown ground beef in the same fat. When meat is done, add 
onions, pepper, mushrooms, tomatoes and seasonings and allow to cook 
ten minutes. Stir in cooked spaghetti and heat thoroughly, then put in 
well-greased baking dish and sprinkle cheese over the top. Bake 30 
minutes in 350° oven. Garnish with bacon just before serving. 


HELEN LINDSAY 


SAFFRON RICE WITH CHICKEN LIVERS AND MUSHROOMS 


1 cup uncooked rice Y2 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons olive oil 1% cups chicken broth 

1 finely minced onion 8 or 10 chicken livers 

Y2 clove garlic 1 cup fresh mushrooms or an 
Y4 teaspoon saffron equal amount of canned ones 


Put 2 tablespoons olive oil in top of double boiler, place directly on a 
slow fire and gently fry out finely minced onion with garlic clove. When 
tender, discard garlic, turn in the cup of rice, saffron and salt. Stir 
well and add just enough chicken broth to cover. Cook uncovered in 
double boiler until tender, adding more broth as needed. Stir gently 
with wooden fork to keep from breaking grains. When tender, turn into 
a shallow pan and dry in a warm—not hot—oven. Rice should be 
quite dry. 


Arrange rice in circle on platter and fill the center with chicken livers 
and mushrooms that have been cooked quickly in butter. 


VIVIAN C. SULLIVAN (Mrs. Paul) 


36 





CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 


OYSTER LOAF 


1 pint fresh oysters 1 teaspoon salt 

¥2 cup diced celery 1% teaspoon pepper 

Ys cup lemon juice Y stick butter 

1 cup bread crumbs 2 tablespoons chopped onion 
2 eggs 


Place in layers in baking dish and top with bread crumbs. Bake until 
brown, about 20 to 30 minutes at 300°. 


DELLA WILLIAMS (Mrs. C. F.) 


PORK CHOPS AND RICE 


6 pork chops 3 tablespoons chopped onion 
Y2 cup uncooked rice 2 teaspoons salt 
3%4 cups strained tomatoes , 14 teaspoon pepper 
3 tablespoons chopped green 2 tablespoons lard 
pepper 


Salt and pepper pork chops and roll in flour. Melt fat in skillet on 
“high” heat, and brown chops on both sides. Mix together the 
uncooked rice, tomatoes, salt, pepper, onion and green pepper and 
pour over chops. Place lid on skillet. Cook over low heat until meat 
is tender. May also be cooked in casserole in oven. 


PERMELIA BREWER (Mrs. I. C.) 


HAM FRIED RICE (Chinese) 


1144 cups cooked ham, cut fine 2 cups cooked rice 

1 large onion, chopped 3 eggs, beaten 

2 tablespoons green pepper, 12 can bean sprouts 
chopped Soy sauce 


34 cup celery, diced 


Place finely chopped ham in skillet which has been slightly oiled with 
cooking fat. Brown and add onions, green pepper and celery and cook 
until tender. Add cooked rice and mix well. Add bean sprouts, drained 
of juice. Make well in rice and add part of beaten eggs. Scramble eggs 
into mixture. Add remainder of eggs and repeat scrambling. Add enough 
soy sauce to coat whole mixture. Serve hot. 


FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. H. K.) 


=F 


THE QUAKER Cook Book 





MARINIERE FOR CHAFING DISHES 


2 cups cream or milk 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
Y4 cup stock, butter or sauce 

margarine 1 tablespoon grated onion 
2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon grated garlic 


2 packages frozen, or 2 cans (optional) 
of fresh clam, crab or tablespoons grated celery 
chicken flaked can mushrooms 

3 hard boiled eggs teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lemon juice tablespoon sugar if desired 


Cook meat with grated onion, celery, Worcestershire sauce, garlic and 
salt until tender, using liquid to barely cover. 


Make a white sauce by melting butter in chafing dish and adding flour 
and cream or milk. Stir until smooth. Add meat and liquid. Add 
chopped eggs and mushrooms. May be thinned with a little water if 
too thick. Add lemon juice and sugar if desired. Stir all together and 
serve on toast points. 


ht ped per Cy) 


CLARA WorTH BRYAN 


SUKIYAKI (Japanese) 


14%2 pounds ground beef 1 No. 2 can bean sprouts 

12 pound ground pork 1 medium can of mushrooms 
1 small bunch celery 1 small head of cabbage 

12 pound snap beans 4 medium onions 

3 medium green peppers Pinch ginger 

2 medium turnips 1 bay leaf 


2 large carrots 


All vegetables should be washed and chopped or cut, not too fine. 
Cook beef and pork in large pot until tender. Then add beans, green 
pepper and celery and let cook until tender. Next add turnips and 
carrots and cook until tender. Add other ingredients and spices and 
simmer for about an hour. Add soy sauce to taste. To this recipe, a 
large bottle will probably be needed. Mixture should be soupy when 
done. 


Serve hot in bowls filled with rice cooked as follows: 


Wash 1 cup of rice in three different waters. Add 114 cups of water 
and start on high heat. When boils, turn to simmer and simmer for 20 
minutes. Rice will be dry but tender. 


From Mrs. L. B. OLIvE (mother of Howard Olive) 





58 





CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 





MEXICAN CHILI 


1 pound ground beef 1 can red beans with chili 

1 large onion, chopped gravy 

Y2 medium-sized green 1 small can tomato sauce or 
pepper, chopped puree 

1 clove garlic, chopped 1 tablespoon chili powder 

12 cup celery, diced Salt and pepper 


Brown beef in skillet. Add onion, pepper, celery and garlic and cook 
until ingredients are tender. Add beans, tomato sauce, chili powder and 
salt and pepper (to taste). Simmer, uncovered, about 12 hour. Serve 
hot with sprinkling of Parmesan cheese or plain. Serves 4 generously. 


FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. H. K.) 


INDIA CURRY WITH RICE 


1 cup chopped onions 1 cup chicken stock 

1 tablespoon fat or cooking oil 1% cup of milk 

2 teaspoons curry powder 3 eggs, well beaten 

2 tablespoons flour 1 cup stewed chicken or other 
14 teaspoon salt meat, cut in pieces, bite size 


Saute onions in fat. Make a paste of curry powder, flour, salt and part 
of chicken stock. Add to onions, then add remainder of stock. Cook 
until thick. Add milk and then eggs and finally add chicken or other 
meat. 


Serve with 1 cup of rice cooked in 112 cups of water until steamed dry. 
FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. H. K.) 


SALMON LOAF 


1: tablespoon lemon juice 14 teaspoon salt 

2 cups flaked salmon or tuna 1 beaten egg 

1 cup medium white sauce 14 cup celery, chopped 
1%4 cup top milk 1 cup dry bread crumbs 


Add lemon juice to salmon. Add remaining ingredients and mix well. 
Bake in greased baking dish in moderate oven 350° until brown and 


set, about 30 minutes. Serves 6. 
ANNA LEE F. SPRYE 


59 


THE QUAKER CooK Book 





LOBSTER JAMBALAYA 


2 cups cooked or canned ¥Y2 teaspoon salt 

lobster meat Y2 teaspoon paprika 
1 cup cooked rice 2 cups canned condensed to- 
Y2 onion, sliced thin mato soup or pureed canned 
Ya green pepper, chopped tomatoes 
2 tablespoons butter Y2 bay leaf 


2 tablespoons flour 


Break cooked lobster meat into sizable chunks; measure rice after 
cooking. Saute the onion and green pepper in the butter. When the 
onion is golden, add the seasonings, tomato soup or puree and bay 
leaf. Stir until thickened, add rice and lobster. Cover, reduce to very 
low heat, and let stand until steaming. Serve on hot toast. This is 
equally good with a mixture of shrimp, crab meat, and lobster. 


JuDy CONRAD HAWoRTH (Mrs. H. S. Jr.) 


SHRIMP AND CRABMEAT CASSEROLE 


2 pounds fresh shrimp Salt to taste 
1 can frozen crabmeat or fresh 3 tablespoons vinegar or 
1 cup celery, cut fine lemon juice 
2 tablespoons Worcestershire 1 green pepper, minced 
sauce Juice of half lemon 
9 tablespoons flour 1% sticks butter or margarine 
Milk to make cream sauce 1 can mushroom soup 


First clean shrimp, getting out the dark vein. Drop in boiling water 
to which salt and 3 tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice have been added. 
Boil for 7 to 10 minutes. Open crab meat going through it thoroughly to 
get out any shell particles. Cook or steam the pepper and celery in a 
very small quantity of water until tender. Make cream sauce of the 
melted butter and flour, blending over low heat. Add milk, stirring 
constantly, then mushroom soup. Season with salt, lemon juice and 
Worcestershire sauce. Add cooked celery and pepper to cream sauce 
mixture. Pour a small quantity of the cream mixture into casserole, add 
the mixed shrimp and crabmeat, pour the remaining sauce on top and 
bake in hot oven for 30 to 35 minutes (375°). 


This recipe will serve 12. 
STELLA A. HIATT (Mrs. Wade) 





60 


CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 





SWEET-SOUR SAUCE FOR FISH 


I small onion, chopped Y cup water 

Y2 teaspoon shaved dry ginger 1 tablespoon cornstarch 
4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon soy sauce 2 tablespoons vinegar 


In pan in which fish have just been fried, saute onions and ginger in 
about a tablespoon of the drippings. Add mixture of salt, soy sauce, 
water, corn starch, sugar and vinegar and cook until mixture becomes 
translucent. Pour over fried fish. Sweet pepper shreds or sweet pickle 
shreds may be added. Serve hot. 


CHINESE 
MARINATED SHRIMP 
14% pounds cooked shrimp , . 1 cup Wesson oil 
1 can tomato soup 3. lemons 
1 box bay leaves 6 small onions 
1% cup vinegar 14 cup sugar 


Dash Worcestershire sauce 


Mix tomato soup, Wesson oil, vinegar, sugar, Worcestershire, salt and 
pepper. Beat well 10 to 15 minutes. 


Place layer of bay leaves on bottom of bowl or crock (do not use metal) 
then a layer of lemon slices, then thin onion rings and a laver of 
shrimp. Repeat until all is used, then pour over the dressing. Cover 
bowl and chill in refrigerator for 24 hours. 


EvELYN Davis (Mrs. Harold) 


SALMON LOAF WITH PEAS 


1 can salmon Pepper 

1 cup soft bread crumbs 2 eggs a 
114 teaspoons chopped parsley 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
'4 teaspoon salt Y% to % cup milk 


Mix all the ingredients thoroughly adding enough milk to moisten. Pour 
‘nto buttered bowl. Place in pan and surround with hot water. Bake 
‘a moderate oven until mixture is firm and slightly brown. Serve with 


thin white sauce with peas added. 
Mrs. RUBY VUNCANNON 


i 
61 


THE QUAKER COOK Book 








SHRIMP CREOLE 


142 pounds cooked shrimp 5 strips chopped crisp bacon 
2% to 3 cups cooked rice 142 cans strained tomatoes 

1 cup onions 1 cup celery 

144 cup green pepper ¥4 cup mushrooms 


In small amount of bacon drippings saute mediumly chopped onions, 
celery and green pepper. Add rice and mix well. Add strained tomatoes 
to suit consistency desired. Lastly add chopped mushrooms, bacon 
broken into little bits, and cooked shrimp each cut in half. Let mixture 
simmer for 20 to 30 minutes. 

FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. Howard) 


FLOUNDER CASSEROLE 


1 pound package frozen fillet Y2 cup sliced spring onions 
of fish 1% cups soft bread crumbs 
2 tablespoons margarine Salt and pepper to taste 
2 teaspoon poultry seasoning 1 can condensed tomato soup 


1 tablespoon lemon juice 


Cook tender the spring onions in margarine. Add bread crumbs to this 
mixture, to which has also been added poultry seasoning and salt and 
pepper. Pour lemon juice over the thawed fish. 


In a covered baking dish put layers of fish and layers of bread crumb 
mixture. Pour tomato soup around the fish. Bake for one hour at 350°. 


MELVINA Davis (Mrs. W. Banner) 


SUPER OYSTER STEW 


2 tablespoons flour 1 pint oysters 
1144 teaspoons salt Y% cup butter 
1g teaspoon pepper 1 quart milk 


2 tablespoons water 


Blend the first four ingredients and stir into 1 pint oysters and their 
liquor. Simmer oysters over very low heat till edges curl. Pour into 1 
quart scalded milk. Remove pan from heat. Cover. Let stand 15 
minutes to improve flavor. Add pats of butter. (Use %4 cup or % 
stick.) Reheat stew piping hot. Have tureen and soup plates hot. 


ELIZABETH R. POSTON (Mrs. Banks) 


62 


CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 








DEEP SEA TIMBALES OR LOAF 


2 eggs, beaten Y% teaspoon celery salt 
2 cups flaked tuna or salmon 1 teaspoon paprika 

(1 pound can) 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
Y2 teaspoon salt sauce 
Ye teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 cup Quaker oats, uncooked 14% cups milk 


Combine all ingredients thoroughly and place in 6 greased custard cups 
or greased loaf pan. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 50 minutes to 1 
hour. Serve with mushroom sauce, tomato sauce, or a cream sauce to 
which one chopped hard-cooked egg has been added. (If canned salmon 
is used, substitute salmon juice for part of the milk). 


CASSEROLE OF SEA FOOD 


3 hard-cooked eggs 4 tablespoons butter 

1 cup tuna fish 4 tablespoons flour 

2 cup shrimp 1 cup dry bread crumbs 
1 cup crabmeat 1% cup butter, melted 

1 cup mushrooms Salt and Pepper 

1 cup diced American cheese 2 cups milk 


1 teaspoon salt 


Arrange sliced eggs in bottom of buttered casserole. Cover with tuna 
fish, shrimp, crabmeat. Add mushrooms, cheese, salt. Make a white 
sauce of butter, flour, salt, pepper and milk. Pour over contents of 
casserole. Mix bread crumbs with 14 cup butter melted, sprinkle over 
top. Bake at 350° about 35 minutes. Serves 10. 


ANNIE HAUSER (Mrs. C. M.) 


ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 


Use crushed cracker crumbs, not too fine. Drain liquor from 1 quart 
oysters. Butter a deep dish and cover the bottom with crackers. Put in a 
layer of oysters, then a layer of crackers, then oysters. Season with 
salt and pepper and continue layers until dish is full. Finish with 
crackers covered with bits of butter. Pour over this three cups of hot 
milk. Bake in moderate oven about one-half hour. 


BESSIE SAUNDERS (Mrs. W. T.) 


ee er a 
63 


THE QUAKER Cook BOOK 





CORNED BEEF — CHINESE STYLE 


1 large onion, chopped 1 can corned beef 
¥%4 cup diced celery 142 cups cooked rice 
Ya cup green pepper, chopped Soy sauce 


Saute onions, celery and green pepper in a tablespoon cooking fat. Add 
cooked rice and mix well. Break up corned beef into mixture and mix. 
Add enough soy sauce to coat entire mixture. Serve hot. 


SHRIMP NEWBERG 


1 pound cooked shrimp. 


Melt 2 tablespoons butter, stir in until blended 2 tablespoons flour, 
(may need more.) Stir in slowly 1 cup cream or milk. When sauce is 
thick, stir in 3 tablespoons tomato ketchup and % tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce. 


Add shrimp to above mixture. Stir until they are well heated. 
Season with salt, paprika and a few grains of cayenne. 
Serve the shrimp in a grits ring or over rice. 


ANN MENDENHALL (Mrs. E. E. Jr.) 


TUNA CASSEROLE 


6 ounces cooked noodles, Y2 cup grated cheese 
drained Butter 
1 7-ounce can tuna Mushrooms or mushroom soup 


1 7-ounce can green peas 


Cook noodles in salted water until tender. Drain. Mix tuna into noodles. 
Add peas also the juice. Brown mushrooms (small can) in butter and 
add to other mixture, using mushroom liquid or can use mushroom 
soup. Pour whole mixture into buttered casserole. Dot with butter, 
spread cheese over top. Bake 30 minutes to 1 hour at 350°. A square 
or oblong casserole requires less baking time. 


This dish with slaw and dessert makes a complete meal. 


EVELYN M. THOMPSON (Mrs. Blake) 


64 


CASSEROLES AND SUPPER DISHES 








RICE, TUNA FISH AND CHEESE CASSEROLE 


2 tablespoons butter 2 cups natural American 

2 tablespoons flour cheese, grated 

2 cups milk 2 cups rice, cooked 

2 teaspoon salt 1 7-ounce can tuna fish 

¥Y2 teaspoon paprika 1% cup bread crumbs, buttered 


Make white sauce with butter, flour and milk. Add salt, paprika, cheese. 
In buttered casserole (2-quart) arrange layers of rice, tuna fish and 
sauce. Cover top with crumbs. Bake at 350° about 30 minutes. 


Serves 8-10. 
CATHERINE PARSONS (Mrs. J. S.) 


TUNA-RICE CASSEROLE 


1 7-ounce can tuna 14 teaspoon salt 

2 cups cooked rice Dash of pepper, if desired 
142 cups whole milk Dash of onion salt if desired 
1 large egg 


Combine the beaten egg, milk, rice, flaked tuna and seasonings. Pour 
in buttered casserole and bake 30 to 40 minutes at 350°, 


A good way to use left-over rice. 


Esta B. HAwortTH (Mrs. Cecil) 


TUNA FONDUE 


5 slices of bread 3 eges 
1 7-ounce can tuna fish 2 cups milk 
14 cup grated cheese 1 teaspoon salt 


Cut crusts and cube bread. Cover bottom of casserole with bread and 
add the drained tuna. Sprinkle with cheese. Add remaining cubes. 
Beat eggs, add milk and salt. Pour over the tuna layers and bake in 
350° oven for one hour. Serve with mushroom sauce if desired. 


Serves 6-8. 
SuE S. PARKER (Mrs. Allen) 


NN 
65 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 
ET NG A Bae 8 oe ee Yah ee Oe Oe OE Cer ree 





ADDITIONAL RECIPES 





iors TH ed, ii 
: ents iS) ‘i 


PITT Tanieteaey 
Ti | 
SUE — . 

; SS} 

ee 





Cookies 


BROWN SUGAR COOKIES 


2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup shortening Y2 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 tablespoons water 1 teaspoon soda 


312 cups flour 


Cream sugar and shortening. Add well-beaten eggs with water and 
vanilla. Sift in other ingredients. Knead dough well. Roll thin and cut 
in small cakes. Bake in quick oven. 


AGNES PARSONS (Mrs. D. H.) 


MARVELOUS BROWNIES 


12 cup butter or margarine 1 cup coarsely chopped 

1 cup sugar walnuts 

2 eggs 2 squares (2 ounces) unsweet- 
1% cup sifted all-purpose flour ened chocolate 

Few grains salt Y teaspoon vanilla 


Work butter or margarine until creamy and add sugar gradually, 
working it in until mixture is soft and smooth. Add the eggs, one at a 
time, beating hard after each addition. Sift in the flour and salt and 
beat again. Now mix the nuts, melted chocolate, vanilla and pour into 
greased 8-inch square pan. Bake at 350° for 25 to 30 minutes being 
careful not to over bake. Brownie tops should still be soft when touched 
with your finger. Cool right in pan, then cut into squares. Serve with 
scoop of vanilla ice cream on top or just plain. 


ELIZABETH R. PosTON (Mrs. Banks) 


67 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





CHOCOLATE NUT CRUNCH 


2 cups vanilla wafer crumbs 1 cup confectioners sugar 
1 cup chopped walnuts 3 well-beaten egg yolks 
'Y2 cup butter or margarine 14% 1-ounce squares un- 
14 teaspoon vanilla sweetened chocolate, 
3 stiff-beaten egg whites melted 


Combine crumbs and nuts and line bottom of 9-inch square pan with 
half. Thoroughly cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks. Add chocolate 
and vanilla. Mix well. Fold in stiff beaten egg whites. Spread over 
crumb mixture. Top with remaining crumb mixture. Chill overnight. 
Cut into squares. Serves 9. 

ALICE IONE LOWE 


CARAMEL BARS 


2 cups brown sugar 2 eggs 
1 stick butter or margarine 1% cups flour 
14 cup chopped nuts 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream sugar and butter, then add eggs well beaten, flour, vanilla and 
nuts. Cook at 325° until done, about 35 to 40 minutes. 


PEARL SHEETZ (Mrs. J. Lloyd) 


MORAVIAN COOKIES 


1 quart Puerto Rican molasses Y cup grape juice 
¥4 pound butter and lard 1 tablespoon nutmeg 
(mixed ) 2 tablespoons cinnamon 
34 pound brown sugar 2 tablespoons cloves 
1 ounce soda (4 level table- 1 tablespoon ginger 
spoons ) 1 teaspoon salt 


334 pounds flour (sift) 


Mix dry ingredients. Add lard and butter, creaming. Add grape juice 
and molasses. Stir, mix well, and knead until a dough is formed. 
Knead until dough is slick when you rub it. It is better to roll the 
cookies after the dough has been made a few days (keep 3-4 days in 
cool place). Roll on a cloth-covered, floured board—may be rolled 
very thin. Bake at 300° or slightly less for 8-10 minutes. Store in air 
tight container. 
Mrs. PLEZ A. TRANSOU, Winston-Salem 





68 


COOKIES 








COCONUT DREAM SQUARES 


1 cup flour % cup butter 
¥4 cup brown sugar, packed 


Combine flour and sugar, cut in butter until mixture is consistency of. 
course meal. Pat firmly into ungreased 9x12 pan and bake at 350° 
for 15 minutes. 


2 eggs 2 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
¥Y cup flour 142 cups shredded coconut 


1 cup chopped nut meats 


Beat eggs until light. Add sugar gradually, beating constantly with 
rotary beater until light and fluffy. Sift flour and baking powder together 
and fold into egg mixture. Add vanilla, nuts, and coconut and mix well. 
Spread on top of the warm baked mixture in pan and return to oven 
for 20 minutes or until browned. Makes 2 dozen bars 11% inches. 


FAYE HAYES (Mrs. Clarence) 


(Catherine Parsons beats the eggs separately in the second part of this 
recipe, uses | cup coconut and 1 cup chopped salted Spanish peanuts 
for variation. ) 


DATE PINWHEELS 


14 pound pitted dates, finely 14 teaspoon soda 
chopped 4 teaspoon salt 
Y cup sugar 1% cup shortening 
Y cup water Y. cup brown sugar, firmly 
4 cup chopped black walnuts packed 
Yg teaspoon salt Y cup white sugar 
2 cups flour 1 egg well beaten 


Cook together the dates, sugar, and water for 5 minutes. Add nuts and 
salt. Cool mixture while preparing cookie dough. Sift together flour, 
soda and salt. Cream shortening and sugar thoroughly. Add beaten 
egg, add sifted dry ingredients. Chill dough slightly. Roll into a 
rectangle %4 inch thick, spread date mixture over sheet of dough and 
roll like jelly rolf. Wrap in wax paper and chill, preferably over night. 
Slice %4 inch thick with sharp knife. Bake in moderate oven 375° 
for 8 to 10 minutes or until lightly browned. Yield, 60 cookies. 


STELLA Hiatt (Mrs. J. Wade) 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 





DATE BARS 
1 cup sugar 1 cup dates 
3 eggs 1 cup flour 
1 cup chopped walnuts 1 teaspoon baking powder 


Beat eggs until very light, add sugar gradually, beating until light. Add 
flour, baking powder, dates, nuts. Stir carefully. Bake in shallow pans 
in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Davip J. WHITE 


DATE SQUARES 


1 cup sugar 1 7-ounce package dates, cut 
2 eggs Y2 cup pecans 

1 cup flour Y2 teaspoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon baking powder Powdered sugar 


Beat eggs, add sugar, flour, baking powder, dates, nuts, vanilla. Pour 
into two 7x7 square pans that have been greased and floured. Bake at 
350° for 25 to 30 minutes. Cut into squares while hot. Remove from 
pans, sprinkle with powdered sugar. Yield: 18 to 24 squares. These 
keep well. 

EVELYN M. THOMPSON (Mrs. Blake) 


OATMEAL COOKIES (Refrigerafor) 


3 cups oatmeal 1 cup butter or margarine 
1 cup brown sugar melted 

¥Y2 cup boiling water 1 teaspoon soda 

¥2 teaspoon salt Y2 cup nuts 

1 cup flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix the oatmeal with the brown sugar, salt and flour. Add melted 
butter and mix well. Dissolve the soda in the boiling water and add to 
mixture. Add chopped nuts and vanilla. Form the dough into a roll 
(or two rolls for the full recipe) in waxed paper and chill thoroughly. 
Fach roll should be approximately 12 inches long and 11% inches in 
diameter. When ready to bake, quickly slice the roll as thinly as possible 
and place each cookie on an ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 375° 
for 5 to 10 minutes. 


FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. Howard) 


70 


COOKIES 








VANILLA ROLLED COOKIES 


3% cups flour 142 cups sugar 
1 teaspoon baking powder 2 eggs, well beaten 
Y2 teaspoon salt 14% teaspoons vanilla 


1 cup shortening 


Sift flour; measure; add baking powder and salt; sift again. Cream 
shortening; add sugar gradually and continue to beat until light. Add 
well beaten eggs and blend thoroughly, add vanilla. Combine the dry 
ingredients and the creamed mixture; mix all thoroughly and chill. 
Roll as thin as possible on a lightly floured board and cut with cookie 
cutter. Or form small balls of the dough and place on a greased baking 
sheet; flatten with bottom of glass tumbler, first greased and then dipped 
in sugar; or with the palm of the hand, floured; or with the tines of a 
silver fork, pressing the balls down twice with the markings at right 
angles. Sprinkle with sugar, chopped nuts, or coconut. Bake in a hot 
oven (400°) for 6 to 10 minutes. Yield: about 6 dozen thin cookies. 


GLADYS RICHARDSON 


ORANGE CUP CAKES 


1 stick butter 1 teaspoon soda 
1 cup sugar Sprinkle of salt 
2 eggs 1 cup nuts 

2 cups flour 1% pound dates 


34 cup buttermilk 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs and beat thoroughly, use 12 cup of 
flour to mix with chopped dates and nuts. Sift flour, salt and soda and 
add alternately with buttermilk, add floured dates and nuts. Bake in 
paper cups set in muffin tins 20-25 minutes at 375°. While cakes are 


still hot top with syrup. 
Syrup For Topping 


| cup sugar Juice 1 lemon 
Juice 2 oranges Grated rind of oranges 


Heat syrup and use while hot, pour about two tablespoons over each 


cake. 
ALTA ANDREWS (Mrs. J. L.) 


I Mn Nae a ee le nr A 
71 


THE QUAKER Cook Book 





ICE BOX COOKIES 


1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
2 eggs 1 cup chopped nuts 

312 cups flour 1 cup ground dates 


1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cream sugar and butter, add beaten eggs and vanilla. Add flour, soda 
and cream of tartar sifted together. Knead dough well and work in the 
dates and nuts. Make out in rolls, wrap in wax paper, let stand over 
night in the refrigerator. Slice and bake at 325° for 10 to 12 minutes 


on cookie sheet. 
MAUDE HAywortTH. (Mrs. H. O.) 


MAE Davis (Mrs. Reuben) 
ELLAMAE FARLOW (Mrs. William) 


LACE COOKIES 


142 cups quick oatmeal 3 teaspoons of cream or whole 

1 stick butter milk 

1142 cups light brown sugar 
Cream butter and sugar. Add oatmeal and cream. Roll in balls the size 
of big marble and bake in 350° oven for 10 minutes. When cool remove 
from pan with pancake turner. Yield about 40 cookies. 


LUNA DAILE PARKER (Mrs. A. S., Jr.) 


MINCE MEAT COOKIES 


Y2 cup shortening (lard or V2 cup chopped nuts 
butter) 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup sugar 3 heaping teaspoons chocolate 
2 unbeaten eggs, one at a time % teaspoon salt (sift in flour) 
and beat well after each ¥%4 cup flour 


1 cup mince meat 


Pour in a shallow pan 8x12 (or larger) which has been greased and 
paper lined. Bake for 30 minutes in moderate oven, 350° to 375°. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and cut in squares while warm. Cookies 
made by this recipe are different from the ordinary and delicious when 


cold. 
EFFIE M. Cox 





1 


COOKIES 








CHEESE RINGS 


Y2 pound aged grated cheese 2 cups flour 
(New York sharp) Y2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
1%4 sticks margarine 


_ Cream margarine and cheese together. Add flour and pepper to mixture 
and mix well. Fill cookie press at once and form rings on ungreased 
cookie sheet. Place in preheated oven at 400° and cook for 10 to 12 
minutes. 
BESSIE JOHNSON (Mrs. Roy) 
ALTA ANDREWS (Mrs. Leslie) 


CORN FLAKE COOKIES 


2 egg whites 2 cup nut meats 
1 cup powdered sugar 1 cup coconut 
2 cups corn flakes Yy teaspoon vanilla 


Beat egg whites stiff and fold in sugar, corn flakes, coconut and vanilla. 
Drop from teaspoon and bake at 350° for 15 to 20 minutes. 


Louise Briccs (Mrs. E. L. Sr.) 


GRAHAM COOKIES 
(Good for constipated children) 


1% cup butter 112 teaspoons baking powder 
1 cup graham flour 1% cup sugar 
1 teaspoon salt | 1 egg 


Sift dry ingredients, cut in the butter. Add egg and mix. If too stiff add 
a few drops of milk. Roll very thin and cut in rounds and bake. 


RACHEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 


OATMEAL COOKIES 


2 eggs well beaten 34 teaspoon soda 

34 cup shortening 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 cups oatmeal G 
2 teaspoons cinnamon 1 cup chopped raisins 


Mix well and drop by spoonfuls on buttered pans. 
Mrs. Ja Cre BIEL 


nnn 
73 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





ROCKS 
1 cup butter 142 teaspoons soda 
134 cups brown sugar 1 pound raisins 
3 eggs 1 pound chopped pecans 
3 cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 teaspoons cinnamon Pinch of salt 


1 teaspoon cloves 


Cream butter and sugar; add eggs beaten together. Add cinnamon, 
cloves, soda and flour. Add well floured raisins and nuts, salt and 
vanilla. Place by teaspoons on buttered tins and bake until a pretty 
brown in moderate oven—350° to 400° for 12 to 15 minutes. 


NANCY K. POSTON 


SAND TARTS 
22 cups sugar 4 cups flour 
2 cups butter Pecan nut meats 
2 eggs, well beaten Cinnamon 


Cream the butter and sugar together. Slowly add the flour, working 
it in well. Add the well beaten eggs and mix thoroughly. Chill over 
night. Roll out thin on lightly floured board and cut. Sprinkle with 
sugar and a little cinnamon and press ¥%2 pecan into center of cookie. 
Bake at 350° for about 10 minutes. 


MAE Davis (Mrs. Reuben) 


SUNDAY SCHOOL COOKIES 


27% cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking soda 
2 eggs Y2 teaspoon salt 
24 cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 


344 cups flour 


Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and remainder of ingredients and work 
until smooth and will not stick to hands. Roll and cut into desired 
shapes. This is the reason they are called Sunday School Cookies: if 
you want to win a class, invite them in and let them make cookies. 


BESSIE SAUNDERS (Mrs. W. T.) 


74 


COOKIES 








SPICY RAISIN COOKIES 


¥3 cup Dixie margarine Y% teaspoon salt 

Y4 cup sugar ¥4 cup sifted flour 

4 teaspoon allspice 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon cinnamon ¥4 cup seedless raisins 

2 eggs 4 cups corn flakes 


Blend Dixie, sugar and spices. Add eggs and beat well. Sift salt, flour, 
baking powder and add. Fold in raisins and corn flakes. Drop by 
tablespoons onto ungreased baking sheet and bake at 375° for 12 to 
14 minutes. Makes 4 dozen. When cool, cover with plain white icing 
made from confectioners sugar, vanilla and a little cream. 


STONE JAR NUT COOKIES 


1 cup shortening 2 eggs (well beaten) 

1 teaspoon salt 3 cups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon nutmeg % cup milk 

2 cups brown sugar (firmly 1 cup cut nuts 
packed ) 


Combine shortening, salt, vanilla and nutmeg. Add brown sugar 
gradually and cream well. Add beaten eggs and mix thoroughly. Sift 
flour with soda. Add %4 of flour to creamed mixture, then add milk, 
remaining flour and nuts, mixing well. Drop from teaspoon on greased 
cookie sheet. Stamp flat with a glass covered with a wet cloth. Bake 
at 375° for 8 to 10 minutes. 

NANCY BARKER 


SNOW BALL COOKIES 


1 cup soft butter (2 sticks) Y2 to 1 cup nuts 
14 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cups flour 


Cream butter and sugar together. Add flour a little at a time. Add 
vanilla and chopped nuts. Roll into balls the size of a walnut or 
smaller. Cook on cookie sheet in 350° oven until light brown. Roll in 
sifted powdered sugar while still warm. 


HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


seen 


ren 


THE QUAKER CooK Book 





TEA BARS 
2 eggs ¥4 cup nut meats 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cup flour 2 squares Baker’s chocolate 


6 tablespoons butter 


Melt together the chocolate and butter. Beat eggs well. Add sugar and 
other ingredients. Beat well together. Bake slowly in greased pan. 


Miss FLORENCE BLAIR 


WHOLE WHEAT COOKIES 


1 pound butter or margarine 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups brown sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 teaspoon salt 4¥% cups whole wheat flour 

3 eggs ¥Y2 pound chopped nut meats 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and blend well. Add flour, soda and 
spices, making a rather stiff dough. Lastly add nuts. Drop by spoonful 
on lightly greased cookie sheet. Bake at 375° for 15 minutes. 


LELIA T. CLINARD (Mrs. John) 


WALNUT-DATE COOKIE (Slices) 


144 cups brown sugar 1 cup chopped walnut meats 
1 egg 2 cups sifted flour 
Y% teaspoon vanilla Y2 cup cold shortening 


Date Dressing 


Moisten 4% pound pitted dates with juice of one orange. Place over slow 
heat until blended. Then stir in one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon 
honey. Blanched almond for each cookie, about % pound. 


Beat 11% cups brown sugar and egg together. Flavor. Stir in nuts and 
flour. Knead in shortening. Form into rolls 1% inches in diameter. 
Put into refrigerator after wrapping in wax paper. Allow 7 or 8 hours 
before cutting into thin slices. Spread with date mixture, place a 
blanched almond in center of each. Bake at 350° until light brown, 
12 to 15 minutes. Quite professional looking—good too! 


EVELYN M. THOMPSON (Mrs. Blake) 





76 


COOKIES 








TEA CAKES 
*3 cup shortening 3 cup buttermilk 
1 heaping cup brown sugar 14 teaspoon soda 
1 egg 1% cups flour 


Cream shortening, sugar and egg, then add buttermilk in which the 
soda has been dissolved. Add flour and roll thin and cut in shapes. 
Bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. E. T. HARMON 


rai 





78 


THE QUAKER COooK BOOK 


ADDITIONAL RECIPES 





Desserts 


AMBROSIA 
36 oranges 2 cans coconut 
1 grapefruit 2 cans crushed pineapple 
1 lemon, juice only 1 jar Maraschino cherries 


Spoon pulp from oranges and grapefruit; free from membrane. Add 
lemon juice, coconut and crushed pineapple. Cherries may be chopped 
and added or used as garnish. This delightful summertime dessert may 
be stored in the freezer and used as desired. 


TRIFLE 
Sponge cake Coconut biscuits (macaroons) 
Raspberry jam Cold custard 
Raspberry jelly Whipped cream 


Spread four pieces of sponge cake with jam and place in bottom of 
glass dish. Break up macaroons and sprinkle over. Pour over jelly and 
set in cool place to set. Then pour over custard and before using, cover 
with whipped cream and decorate with angelica and jelly or cherries. 
This is a pretty party dish and may have coins or small silver trinkets 
put in. It is nicely flavored by soaking the cake with pineapple juice, 
then cutting pineapple into small pieces and putting with cake and 
macaroons before covering with jelly. 


Egg Custard for Trifle 
2 eggs 1 pint milk 
1 ounce sugar 
Boil milk and sugar, beat eggs and add gradually. Stir until it thickens. 


EDITH FIDLER (Mrs. Norman) 





712 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 











APPLE CRUNCH 


6 large apples Y4 cup shortening 

14 cup granulated sugar 1 cup brown sugar 

1 teaspoon nutmeg or 1 cup flour 
cinnamon 


Peel and slice apples. Arrange in greased baking dish. Sprinkle with 
granulated sugar and cinnamon. Combine brown sugar, shortening and 
flour until it resembles coarse meal. Spread over mixture. Bake 1 hour 
at 325°. Top with ice cream and serve warm. 


EVELYN THOMPSON (Mrs. Blake) 


PLAIN CUSTARD 


1 pint milk 3 eggs separated 
1 box granulated gelatin 344 cup sugar 
1 cup cold water 


Soak gelatin in cold water, scald milk in double boiler, add soaked 
gelatin and stir well, then add egg yolks well mixed with sugar. Cook 
about two minutes longer, stirring constantly. When cool, add well 
beaten whites of eggs and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Chill thoroughly before 
serving. 

Mrs. BERTHA SHEETS 


CREAMED SWEET POTATOES IN ORANGE CUP 


6 large sweet potatoes, boiled Pinch salt 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon ginger 

2 whole eggs, well beaten ¥4 cup pecans or black wal- 
14 cup raisins nuts, broken 

Y cup coconut 8 oranges 

Y% cup milk Maraschino cherries 


Y cup butter 


Peel cooked potatoes, beat until lumps have disappeared. Add remain- 
ing ingredients except oranges, nuts and cherries. Cut oranges in 
halves and remove fruit. Fill with potato filling. Cook 20 minutes in 
medium oven. Sprinkle nuts and cherries on top. Serve hot. Serves 


12-16. 
EVELYN Davis (Mrs. Harold) 





80 


DESSERTS 





DAINTY CHOCOLATE CUSTARD 


Y4 cup grated chocolate 4 egg yolks 
4 cups milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
~l cup sugar Pinch salt 


Put chocolate and 1 cup milk into double boiler and cook until smooth. 
Add remainder of milk. When hot, pour over the sugar which has been 
mixed with the egg yolks. Return to double boiler and cook until thick. 
Stir occasionally. Add vanilla and pour into individual glass dishes. 
Serve with meringue made with the egg whites and 4 tablespoons 
Sugar, or top with whipped cream. 


RACHEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 


ORANGE CHARLOTTE 


¥3 box unflavored gelatine, or 1 cup sugar 

14% tablespoons 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
14 cup cold water 1 cup orange juice and pulp 
43 cup boiling water Whites of 3 eggs 


2 cups cream, whipped 


Soak gelatin in cold water, dissolve in boiling water, add sugar, lemon 
juice, orange juice and pulp. Chill until rather thick or about the 
consistency of egg white, then beat until frothy. Add egg whites, beaten 
stiff and fold in beaten cream. Line a mold or dessert dish with sections 
of oranges, turn in mixture, smooth evenly, and chill. 


ALTA ANDREWS (Mrs. Leslie) 


LEMON SAUCE 


2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 14% cups water 
14 cup lemon juice 


Mix cornstarch and sugar. Add water and lemon rind. Blend well and 
bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Cook until clear, about 5 minutes. 
Add lemon juice. Serve hot or cold over pudding, gingerbread or cake. 


Dora Warp (Mrs. Boyd) 





een 
81 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 





MACAROON PINEAPPLE DESSERT 


1 cup crushed macaroon 1 cup crushed pineapple 
cookies (small can) 
1 cup whipping cream 1 teaspoon vanilla (if desired) 


Whip cream and fold in crushed macaroons and crushed pineapple. 
Pour in freezing tray and freeze. Stir one time when frozen around 
edges. A delicious smooth dessert. 

CLARA WORTH BRYAN 


PRUNE WHIP 


1 pound prunes 3 egg whites 
2 tablespoons sugar 


Cook prunes until tender and mash fine. Beat egg whites very stiff, 
adding sugar gradually at end. Then whip in mashed prunes. Chill 
and serve with cream. 

Mrs. BERTHA SHEETS 


SPANISH CREAM 


1 box gelatin Y2 cup sugar (scant) 
3 cups milk 4 teaspoon salt 
Whites of 3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Yolks of 3 eggs 


Scald milk with gelatin, add sugar. Pour slowly on yolks slightly 
beaten. Return to double boiler and cook until thick. Remove and 
add salt, flavoring and whites beaten stiff. Serve with cream. 


LOUISE BricGcs (Mrs. E. L.) 


THE FIVE GOOD THREES 


3 cups lemon juice 3 cups water 
3 cups orange juice 3 cups sugar 
3 cups bananas 


Mash bananas. Pour over them the other ingredients and pour into a 
freezing tray and freeze. Stir once or twice. A most refreshing dessert 
for a hot day. 

MINNIE WORTH 





82 


DESSERTS 





APPLE TORTE 


1 egg Ya cup chopped nuts 

¥4 cup sugar % cup finely chopped apples 
| teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Pinch salt 1 tablespoon flour 


Beat egg, add sugar and beat well. Add baking powder and salt to flour 
and stir into first mixture. Add other ingredients. Pour into greased 
casserole and bake at 350° for 40 minutes or until set. Serve with 
whipped cream or ice cream. Serves 4 or 5. 


FRANCES M. HawortTH (Mrs. Horace) 


LINZER TORTE 


14% cups flour 12 cup unblanched almonds 
4 cup sugar ground 

Y2 teaspoon baking powder Y2 cup brown sugar, packed 
VY teaspoon salt Y cup butter 

'Y teaspoon cinnamon 1 egg 


Sift dry ingredients, cut in butter, add unbeaten egg and ground 
almonds. Reserve % cup of dough for topping. Press remaining dough 
evenly into bottom and sides of 8-inch pie pan. Do not cover rim. Fill 
with cream filling, top with raspberry sauce and strips of pastry. Bake 
in moderate oven, 375°, 30-35 minutes. Serve warm or cold. 


Cream Filling 


Beat 1 egg until fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add gradually % cup sugar 
and beat until thick and Jemon colored. Blend in %4 cup sifted Pills- 
bury’s flour and %4 teaspoon salt. Gradually add 12 cups milk which 
has been scalded in top of double boiler. Return mixture to top of 
double boiler, cook, stirring constantly, until thick. Cover and continue 
cooking 4 to 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Cool. 
Raspberry Sauce 


Combine 1 package thawed, frozen raspberries, undrained, 2 table- 
spoons sugar and 2 tablespoons cornstarch in sauce pan. (14% cups 
fresh berries and % cup sugar may be substituted. Omit cornstarch. ) 
Add 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Bring to boil and cook 5-10 minutes 
until mixture thickens. Cool. 


83 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 





ORANGE GELATIN 


1 tablespoon gelatin 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
Y% cup cold water Y2 cup sugar 
¥Y2 cup heated orange juice Ys teaspoon salt or less 


¥4 cup cold orange. juice 


Soak gelatin in cold water five minutes. Add hot orange juice and mix 
well. Add other ingredients in order and pour into individual molds to 
congeal. 


This is a light dessert, wonderful for convalescents and diet watchers. 
LouIsE L. Cox (Mrs. Elwood) 


HEAVENLY HASH 


10 marshmallows (cut in small 1 cup broken nuts 

pieces) 1 cup seeded grapes (cut in 
1 No. 2 can pineapple (drain small pieces) 

off juice) 2 cups whipping cream 


Whip cream. Put 1 cup in bottom of casserole, add nuts and fruit. Put 
other half of whipped cream on top. Place in refrigerator. Use at any 
time. Good for days after making. 

SCOVIA POSTON 


MAGIC CHERRY DESSERT 


1% cup butter or margarine 12 cup milk 

Y2 cup sugar 1 No. 2 can sour cherries 
1 cup sifted flour ¥4 cup sugar 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup juice 


14 teaspoon salt 
(can use apples, peaches or berries if preferred) 


Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Sift dry ingredients 
together. Stir into margarine the sugar mixture alternately with milk. 
Beat until smooth. Pour into greased 2 quart casserole. 


Spoon drained fruit over batter. Sprinkle with %2 cup sugar and pour 
juice over top. Bake at 375° for 45 minutes. When baked, the cake 
batter comes to the top. Serve with whipped cream topping if desired. 
Serves 8. 

SUE S. PARKER (Mrs. Allan) 





84 





DESSERTS 





PEACH PARFAIT 


1 cup sugar ¥& teaspoon salt 

4 cup water 14 cup orange juice (two 

2 egg whites medium oranges) 

1 cup peach pulp, fresh or 2 cups whipping cream 
frozen 14 teaspoon almond extract 


Boil sugar and water until the syrup spins 2 inch threads when dropped 
from a fork or spoon, or until the candy thermometer indicates 234°— 
takes about five minutes. Beat egg whites until stiff, add salt. While 
beating constantly gradually pour hot syrup over egg whites. Fold the 
peach pulp and orange juice into the egg white mixture until thoroughly 
blended. Whip the cream, add almond extract, and fold into the peach 
mixture. Fill two refrigerator trays and place in contact with the bottom 
of the freezer compartment. Freeze until firm—takes about one hour 
when cold control is set at 10. Cover with waxed paper or foil and 
return temperature dial to normal setting. (6 to 8 servings). 


Good on a hot summer day! 


IONE LOWE 
GRAPE ICE CREAM 
2 cups cream 2 cups sugar 
1 cup whole milk 1 cup grape juice 


Freeze in usual way, pack for 3 hours before serving. The cream will 
be well flavored and tinted a pretty violet. 


RACHEL TAYLOR_(Mrs. F. R.) 


DEWBERRY ICE CREAM 


1 pint whole milk 1 tablespoon flour 
2 eggs Y pint berry juice 
1 cup sugar 1 pint cream 


Put milk and sugar in double boiler to scald. Separate eggs, beat yolks 
lightly. Add flour and beat smooth, adding a little cold milk to thin. 
Stir this into scalded milk, let thicken, remove from fire and strain 
through wire strainer. Have egg whites beaten stiff, add tablespoon 
sugar, and stir into custard while hot. Let cool, add half pint of cream 
and freeze. When freezing begins, add berry juice, finish freezing, pack, 
and set aside for an hour before serving. The juice of a lemon added 


to berry juice improves the flavor. 
Miss EFFIE Cox 


A 
85 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





PEACH ICE CREAM 


1 pint milk 1 cup undiluted evaporated 

1 dozen large marshmallows milk 

1 egg, beaten | 12 teaspoon vanilla 

Few grains salt 4-6 mashed sweetened 
peaches 


Melt marshmallows in milk, pour over beaten egg to which salt has been 
added. Add undiluted evaporated milk, vanilla and fruit, peaches or 
berries. Pour into trays. Stir several times during freezing process. 


EVELYN THOMPSON (Mrs. Blake) 


LEMON ICE 
1 cup lemon juice and grated 4 cups water 
rind 2% cups sugar 


Make a syrup of sugar and water and when cold add lemon and freeze. 


Miss STELLA ANDERSON 


LIME SHERBET 


1 package lime Jello 2 lemons (juice) 
1 cup boiling water 1 quart milk 
1 cup sugar (scant) Pinch salt 


Dissolve Jello in boiling water. When cool, add all other ingredients 
except the milk. Stir milk in gradually and pour in freezing tray. Stir 
two or three times during freezing. 


FRANCES M. HAwortH (Mrs. Horace) 
MAE Davis (Mrs. Reuben) 


LEMON MOUSSE - 
Prepare 1 package lemon Jello as directed on package. 


When Jello is jelled slightly, beat into this 1 pint vanilla ice cream in 

large bowl. Refrigerate 2 or 3 hours or over night, if desired. Serve in 

sherbet glasses (using large serving spoon) and top with whipped cream. 
HELEN B. TOMLINSON 





86 


DESSERTS 





BREAD PUDDING 


2 cups bread crumbs 2 eggs 
2 cups milk ¥& teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons butter Y teaspoon vanilla 


4 cup sugar 


Soak bread crumbs in milk about 30 minutes. Beat eggs slightly; add 
salt, then stir into bread and milk mixture, add butter, sugar and vanilla. 
Mix well. 


Pour into buttered 1 quart baking dish and bake in moderate oven 
(350°). about 1 hour or until a small knife comes out clean when 
inserted in center of pudding. Makes 4 to 6 servings. 


Serve hot or cold with plain cream, currant jelly or a hot pudding sauce. 
If desired cover the top of baked pudding with marshmallows or 
meringue and return to oven and brown lightly. 


GLADYS RICHARDSON 


NEW BREAD PUDDING 
4 slices buttered toast (cut in 1 cup Pet milk 


quarters ) 1 cup water 
1% cup seedless raisins 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 eggs Dash cinnamon 


44 cup sugar 


Place toast into a greased baking dish. Sprinkle raisins over toast. Mix 
eggs, sugar, milk and flavoring and pour over toast. Let stand a few 
minutes then bake in a 350° oven for 30 minutes. 


Mrs. GROOME FULTON 


CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 
(May be made with toast left over at breakfast) 


2 cups bread crumbs 1 ounce chocolate 
2 cups milk 1 light cup sugar 
3 eggs 


Beat eggs until light. Add all ingredients. Bake in moderate oven 350° 
until set. Serve with whipped cream. 


nn 
87 


THE QUAKER Cook Book 





CORN FLAKES PUDDING 


1 egg 4 tablespoons brown sugar 
2 cups corn flakes Vanilla 
3 cups evaporated milk 


Mix egg, milk and brown sugar, then add corn flakes. Cook in stew 
pan on top of stove until mixture thickens. 


LouIs—E Briccs (Mrs. E. L., Sr.) 


DATE PUDDING 


1 cup dates 14 teaspoon salt 

1 cup raisins 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup hot water 1 teaspoon lemon 

1 teaspoon soda 14 teaspoon cinnamon 
1144 cups flour %4 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup sugar Y% cup nuts (any kind) 


1 tablespoon butter 


Cover raisins, chopped dates, and soda with hot water and let stand 5 
minutes. Cream sugar and butter, add flavorings. Combine above 
mixtures with flour and nuts and beat vigorously 1 minute. Pour into 
Square pan, which has been greased and floured to bake. Place in oven 
350° and cook for 40 to 45 minutes. 


Serve warm with sweetened whipped cream. Serves 9-12. 


Esta B. HAworTH (Mrs. Cecil) 


DATE PUDDING 


1 cup sugar 2 eggs 
| cup chopped dates 1 heaping tablespoon flour 
1 cup chopped pecans 2 teaspoons baking powder 


Beat eggs together well, add sugar, flour and baking powder; lastly the 
nuts and dates. Spread rather thin on greased and floured pan. Place 
in quick oven for five minutes then reduce the heat to 350° for 20 
minutes. Cut in squares and serve with whipped cream. 


Mary WILSON WALL (Mrs. E. S.) 


88 


DESSERTS 








DATE PUDDING 


1 cup finely chopped dates 
1 tablespoon orange juice 
Yg teaspoon salt 

¥2 cup whipping cream 


6 marshmallows chopped fine 
1¥2 cups crushed Graham 
crackers 


Whip the cream. Add all ingredients. Make into roll. Wrap in waxed 
paper and store in refrigerator. Slice and serve with whipped cream. 


GRATED RAW SWEET POTATO PUDDING 


4 cups grated raw sweet potato 


12 cup sugar 
Y2 cup molasses or syrup 
14% cups milk 


3 eggs 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 
Y2 teaspoon salt 


3 cup butter 


Beat eggs and add milk. To the grated sweet potato add melted butter, 
sugar, molasses, spices, salt and then the milk and egg mixture. Pour 
into a buttered pan (or casserole). 


Bake at 325°. When crusted around top and edge stir and let the 
crust form again. Let bake until firm. 


(1/2 cup grated coconut, 1/2 cup raisins or 1/2 cup nut meats may be 
added to the above for variation. ) 


Serve with cream. 
LUNA DAILE PARKER (Mrs. A. Scott, Jr.) 


LEMON PUDDING 


Y% teaspoon salt 
Grated rind of 1 lemon or few 
drops of extract 


3 eggs 
1% cups milk 


2 tablespoons butter 

3 tablespoons flour 

1 cup sugar 

Juice of two lemons or % cup 
frozen juice 


Cream sugar, flour and butter. Add milk and egg yolks, lemon juice 
and rind. Whip whites, fold in lightly. Put in an oiled pan, set in a 
larger pan in cold water and bake in a 350° oven until done about 


45 minutes. 
Mrs. W. F. HERNDON 





89 


AG 
Bley 


esi’ | 
Pe risa} 
N = € f hye? - 








THE QUAKER Cook Book 


MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 


143 pound marshmallows 1% tablespoon gelatin 

Y2 cup pecans 1 tablespoon cherry juice 

¥Y2 cup Maraschino cherries 2 cup slices pineapple (may 
2 pint cream omit) 


Soak gelatin in cherry juice 10 minutes. Dissolve with one tablespoon 
boiling water by placing in cup set in hot water. Pour over cream 
which has been whipped, stirring carefully to keep gelatin from 
lumping. Sprinkle in marshmallows, cut in small pieces, nuts, fruits, 
also chopped. Pour into wet mould and set on ice and stiffen. Serve 
with 42 pint cream, whipped. This makes 8 generous servings. 


Mrs. JOSEPH T. WEAVER 


MANHATTAN PUDDING 


1% cups sugar 1 lemon (juice) 

1 cup water 1 cup whipping cream 
1 package plain gelatin Y teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups orange juice V2 cup sugar 


Boil sugar and water for 5 minutes. Dissolve gelatin in 12 cup cold 
water and add to hot syrup. Add orange and lemon juice and pour in 
refrigerator tray and freeze. Whip cream with 4% cup sugar and vanilla 
and cover the other mixture. Leave until cream freezes. Cut out in 
one inch slices. 


Delicious hot weather dessert. 
MARY WILSON WALL (Mrs. E. S.) 


PLUM PUDDING 
1 cup suet chopped fine and 1 cup milk 


salted or 1 cup butter 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 
1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon soda 
2 cups flour ¥Y2 teaspoon each cloves, 
2 cups raisins cinnamon, and nutmeg 


Mix all ingredients. Place in well-greased tins, filling about 7% full and 
steam for three hours. (Less time in pressure cooker). 


Ancestral rule in family of ALICE PAIGE WHITE 





90 


DESSERTS 





PERSIMMON PUDDING 


Y4 gallon persimmons capped, mashed, and thinned in 11% pints water. 


Strain through cloth or strainer. Add: 


3 cups sifted flour 
14% cups sugar 


1 grated sweet potato size of 


pint cup 


2 cups milk 

14 teaspoon soda 

1 level teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon melted butter 


3 eggs well beaten 


Flavor with vanilla and nutmeg. Bake in slow oven until brown and 
set. Cut into squares and serve with whipped cream and nuts. 


ETHEL TOMLINSON (Mrs. S. H.) 


PERSIMMON PUDDING 


1 gallon persimmons 

3 cups sweet milk 

1 sweet potato size of pint cup 
1 cup white sugar 

14% cups brown sugar 

3 eggs 

1 cup butter 


3 cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cap, wash and strain persimmons. Grate sweet potato and add to 
persimmons. Add sugar. Sift flour, salt, soda, baking powder and 
cinnamon together and add to batter. Add eggs well beaten. Add melted 
butter. Mix thoroughly. Should be thin as cake batter. Pour in well 
greased pans or baking dishes. Bake in oven about one hour at 400°. 
Let cool and cut in squares. 

AGNES FERGUSON (Mrs. H. W.) 


PERSIMMON PUDDING 


2 cups brown sugar 

1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon ginger 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 


14 gallon persimmons, mashed 
and strained 

11% pints milk 

3 heaping cups sifted flour 

Pinch of salt 


Bake in slow oven until rich brown and firm. 


DEBORAH PARKER (Mrs. A. S., Sr.) 


91 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








AUNT DOROTHY'S PERSIMMON PUDDING 


2 quarts persimmons 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
2 cups sour milk or sweet 1 tablespoon allspice 
2 eggs Y teaspoon nutmeg 

2 cups flour 1 teaspoon soda 


12 pound butter 


Pick and wash persimmons. Pour over milk, mash and run through 
colander. Add other ingredients in order given. Bake in 350° oven 
one hour. 


After you have run pulp through colander, you can place this in deep 
freeze and use any time during year. 


BESSIE SAUNDERS (Mrs. W. T.) 


PERSIMMON PUDDING 


To one quart persimmons add 114 cups water. Mash well and put 
through colander. There should be about two cups pulp. 


Add the following ingredients in the order given: 
(Sift dry ingredients together). 


3 eggs beaten Y teaspoon salt 

1% cups sugar 1 cup milk 

1% cups flour 12 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 teaspoon baking powder Y2 teaspoon allspice 
1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Pour in buttered casserole and bake at 325° for 1 hour. Serves 12. 
MEETA HEATH JACKSON 


WOODFORD PUDDING 


4 eggs 1 cup damson preserves 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

12 cup butter 3 teaspoons sour milk 

1 cup flour Cinnamon and nutmeg to taste 


Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs, flour, soda dissolved in sour 
milk, preserves and spices. Bake in 375° oven. 


VIRGINIA R. Cox (Mrs. J. J.) 





2 





DESSERTS 





LEMON ANGEL PUDDING 


4 tablespoons Minute Tapioca 1% cup lemon juice 
Y4 cup sugar 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 
Y% teaspoon salt Y2 cup cream, whipped 


2 cups water 


Combine tapioca, sugar, salt and water in saucepan and mix well. Bring 
mixture quickly to a full boil over direct heat, stirring constantly. 
Remove from fire. (Mixture will be thin. Do not overcook.) Add 
lemon juice and rind. Cool, stirring occasionally. Mixture thickens as 
its cools. Chill; fold in cream. Pile lightly in serving dishes. Garnish 
with orange slices. Serves 6. 

LAURA WHITE (Mrs. Murray M.) 


LAURA WORTH'S PERSIMMON PUDDING 


cups flour 

cup buttermilk 

large grated sweet potato 
teaspoon allspice 
teaspoon cinnamon 
teaspoon soda 


Y4 gallon persimmons 
1 quart sweet milk 

2 cups brown sugar 

1 cup butter 

14 cup corn meal 

4 or 5 eggs 


Cream butter and sugar. Beat in eggs whole. Add persimmons which 
have been run through a colander. Add grated sweet potato and spices. 
Mix corn meal, white flour and soda. Add alternately flour and milk 
to above mixture. Beat in thoroughly. Pour into greased four-inch deep 
baking pans. Fill about half full. Bake in a very slow oven (350°-400° ) 
until brown and firm, about 1 hour and 30 or 40 minutes. Serve warm 
or cold with or without whipped cream. Will keep two or three weeks 
in refrigerator. 


fend feed feck pk peek ( 4) 


CLARA WoRTH BRYAN 


RICE PUDDING 


2 quarts milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
14 cup raw rice Y2 cup chopped raisins, if 
12 cup sugar or more desired 


14 teaspoon nutmeg 


Cook in slow oven and when a light brown crust forms, stir down each 


time. Cook about two hours. 
Mrs. ANNA TOMLINSON 





93 





THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





GOOD PLUM PUDDING 


1 pound brown sugar 6 whole eggs 

¥Y4 pound suet 1 cup flour 

1 Ib. bread crumbs teaspoon soda 

2 pounds seedless raisins teaspoon nutmeg 

2 pounds currants teaspoon cinnamon 

Y4 pound orange peel cups cider or apple juice 
¥2 pound pecans Y teaspoon salt 


NO = = 


Sift dry ingredients several times. Beat eggs well, add sugar, then fruits, 
etc., which have been ground in food chopper. Grease cans or bowls 
well. Leave at least one inch at top to allow for rising. Cover tops with 
aluminum foil to keep moisture out. Set bowls in water in covered 
kettle, and let steam for three hours. Leave in bowl. When ready to 
serve, reheat (if it has cooled), remove from bowl, circle with hard 
sauce, pressed through a pastry tube, and garnish with sprigs of holly. 


Hard Sauce 
Use 4% pound butter and 2 cups of confectioner’s sugar, cream butter 
and sugar until light. Use your favorite flavoring. Add a small amount 
of luke-warm cream, and beat until sauce is fluffy. 
HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


LEMON CURD 
3 cups sugar 6 eggs 
4 ounces butter 4 lemons 


Put butter in top of double boiler. When meited, add sugar, then 
strained juice and rind of lemons. Beat eggs well and add to the 
mixture. Stir until thick as honey. This keeps well if tightly covered. 


Mrs. ELIZABETH SYKES 


BUTTERSCOTCH SAUCE 


142 cups brown sugar Ys cup cream 
44 cup light corn syrup ¥s cup milk 
4 tablespoons butter 


Boil sugar, butter and syrup to soft ball stage, then stir in milk and 
cream. 


FRANCES HAWORTH (Mrs. Horace S.) 





94 


DESSERTS 








QUEEN'S PUDDING 


1 pint milk 2 eggs 
1 pint bread crumbs 1 cup sugar 
2 lemons 


Soak the crumbs in milk, add the grated lemon rind, % cup sugar, and 
the egg yolks beaten. Bake in moderate oven until set. Let cool slightly. 
Make a meringue of the egg whites and remaining sugar. Pile on top 
roughly and bake till brown. 

ELIZABETH SYKES (Mrs. T. A.) 


Sauce for Queen's Pudding 


Make a hard sauce as follows: 1 cup light brown sugar, half cup butter, 
half grated rind and juice of one lemon. Beat until very light. 


Miss ELVA J. BLAIR 


96 





THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 


ADDITIONAL RECIPES 





Bees 


il x 





Oilers) 
TNE. 


; 1 ae : 
is } iv: es Ake ae 
RES SA NI Oem TT 


COOKING BEEF 


Rib Roast 


Place in pan, fat side up. Season with salt and pepper and place in slow 
oven, 325°, without cover. Do not add water. Roast to desired degree 
of doneness, allowing 18 to 20 minutes per pound for rare roast, 22 to 
25 minutes per pound for medium, and 27 to 30 minutes per pound 
for well-done roast. Meat thermometer will read 140° for rare, 160° 
for medium, and 170° for well-done. 2 to 3 servings per pound. 


Rolled Rib Roast 
Proceed as for Rib Roast increasing roasting time 10 minutes per pound. 
3 to 4 servings per pound. 

Beef Pot Roast 


Dredge in flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Brown on all sides in hot 
fat. To a 4-pound chuck or rump roast, add 4% cup water and cover. 
Cook slowly 2/2 to 3 hours or until tender, adding more water if 


needed. 6 to 8 servings. 
Rump Roast 


Follow same method as for Rib Roast. Rump roasts are usually cooked 
to the medium or well-done stage. 


MEETA HEATH JACKSON 


97 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





BROWN ROAST 


Take a four or five pound cut of round steak. Brown on both sides in 
frying pan in enough fat to keep from burning. Then place in roaster 
and add pepper and salt. Slice an onion and brown slightly in fat 
remaining in the pan; remove onion to roaster and then brown 1 
heaping tablespoon flour and then add to it 1 pint cold water. Pour 
over the beef, cover and bake for about two hours in the oven. 


Mrs. E. T. HARMON 


BEEF LOAF 

1 cup boiling water 1 large green pepper, minced 
2 slices bacon (optional) 
1 egg 1 cup tomato juice or tomato 
1 pound round steak (ground) soup 
3 slices stale whole wheat 4 teaspoon pepper 

bread 1 teaspoon soda (very 
1 tablespoon minced onion important) 


1¥%2 teaspoons salt 


Mix all ingredients except bacon and water thoroughly. It will be quite 
soft. Mold, place in casserole. Sprinkle top of loaf with flour, place the 
strips of bacon on top, add one cup boiling water. Bake in hot oven 
(375°) for 30 minutes. Reduce heat to 300° and cook 30 minutes 
longer. 


Lucy JARRETT (Mrs. E. H.) 


PHILIPPINE ROAST 


14% pounds ground steak 1 small onion 

¥Y2 pound fresh lean pork, 1 cup soft bread crumbs 
ground 1 egg 

1 green pepper 3 thin slices bacon 

142 teaspoons salt 2 cups canned tomatoes 

Y4 teaspoon pepper 


a. 


Combine all ingredients except last three; add egg, slightly beaten and 
mix thoroughly. Form into loaf, place in roasting pan, lay bacon on 
top, and tomato around the roll. Bake at 400° for 11% hours, basting 
frequently with the tomato. Remove to hot platter and serve with gravy 
made from juices in the pan. 

BESSIE SAUNDERS (Mrs. W. T.) 


98 


MEATS 





MEAT LOAF 


1 pound freshly ground beef 14 cup chopped onion 

1 egg 134 cups milk 

14% teaspoons salt 2 cups bread crumbs 
Combine all ingredients, mixing thoroughly. Pack into a greased loaf 
pan and bake in moderate oven (350°-375°) for about an hour. 


Yield: 5 to 6 servings. 
MELITA HANING (Mrs. Ted) 


Bessie Johnson pours the following sauce over her meat loaf and 
bastes it occasionally as it bakes. 


12 can tomato sauce 
2 tablespoons prepared 
mustard 


1 cup water 
2 tablespoons vinegar 
2 tablespoons brown sugar 


FANCY HAMBURGERS 


1% cup milk 
1 can Hunts tomato sauce 
Salt and pepper 


1 pound ground beef 
1 slice bread 
4 slices Velveeta cheese 


Mix ground beef, salt and pepper, and slice of bread soaked in milk 
together and form 8 patties. Place slice of cheese on 4 patties and 
cover with remaining 4. Close around edges by pressing patties together. 
Brown on both sides then pour tomato sauce over the browned patties. 
Cover and simmer 20 minutes. 

RutH FULTON (Mrs. Groome) 


CHICKEN A LA KING 


2 egg yolks 

1 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons butter 

2 cups diced chicken 

1 cup mushrooms (saute) 
1% cup pimento 


3 tablespoons chicken fat 
2 tablespoons flour 

1 cup chicken stock 

1 cup milk 

1 cup cream 


Melt fat, add flour; pour gradually the stock, milk and cream into it 
and bring to the boiling point. Add salt, pepper, butter, chicken, 
pimento and mushrooms. Bring again to boiling point and add beaten 


egg yolks. 
MILDRED COFFIELD (Mrs. H. I.) 


NS 
99 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 








BARBECUED HAMBURGERS 


1 pound ground beef 1 teaspoon pepper 
¥Y2 cup catsup 1 tablespoon chopped onion 
114 teaspoons salt 12 cup bread crumbs 
Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon chili sauce or 
2 tablespoons Wesson oil catsup 
] tablespoon brown sugar 1 tablespoon vinegar 
1 tablespoon chopped onion © 2 teaspoons prepared mustard 
1 tablespoon Worcestershire 1 teaspoon salt 

sauce 


Combine ingredients, make out in balls, and place in casserole. Melt 
the ingredients for sauce in pan and pour over the hamburger balls. 
Place casserole in oven at 400° and bake for 45 minutes. 


DELLA WILLIAMS (Mrs. C. F.) 


SPANISH STEAK 


242 pounds round steak 1 pint sliced tomatoes 
(2% inches thick) 1 cup grated cheese 
Y2 pint sliced onions 12 cup butter 


Salt and pepper 


Put steak in roaster, add layer of onions, then tomatoes, butter, pepper 
and salt. Cook 142 hours. Take from oven and put grated cheese on 
top and brown. Serve hot, with milk or water gravy. 


My mother’s recipe, Mrs. ARTHUR LYON 


BARBECUED CHICKEN 


2 pounds chicken 1 teaspoon sugar 
¥3 cup onion, chopped 1% cup butter 
(optional) ¥4 cup catsup 
1 teaspoon salt | 12 cup vinegar 
2 teaspoons Worcestershire Y2 cup water 
sauce 


Brown chicken thoroughly. Pour above ingredients over chicken and 
cook in oven about 2 hours at 325°, or can be cooked on top stove. 


PEARL SHEETZ (Mrs. J. Lloyd) 





100 


MEATS 








BARBECUED CHICKEN IN OVEN 


24% to 3 pounds chicken 34 teaspoon salt 
Y% cup vinegar Y2 cup catsup 
1% cup Wesson Oil Very few drops of Tabasco 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

sauce 1 clove garlic, minced, if 
1 teaspoon grated onion desired, I don’t use it 


12 teaspoon dry mustard 


Cut chicken and salt as for frying, preferably leaving in refrigerator 
over night. Arrange pieces of chicken in roasting pan so they do not 
overlap, then brush with Wesson oil. Bake in 475° oven for 20 minutes, 
turning pieces after 10 minutes. Combine all other ingredients and mix 
well. Heat and pour over chicken. Reduce heat to 325° and bake for 
1 hour, basting occasionally. 

STELLA Hiatt (Mrs. Wade) 


FRIED CHICKEN 


1 chicken, young, about 2 Ibs. Flour to dredge chicken 
2 teaspoons salt 4 to 6 tablespoons shortening 


12 teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon butter 


Dredge chicken in flour, pepper and salt mixed. Have pan of shortening 
hot. Put in dredged chicken and fry carefully, turning frequently. While 
this process is going on, add butter. Be careful not to let fat get too 
hot, so that chicken will not be dark. It should be a golden brown. When 
done, remove chicken. Then stir into the fat in the pan one tablespoon 
flour and add slowly nearly a pint of milk, stirring carefully until it 


boils. Season this gravy to taste. 
Mrs. E. T. HARMON 


SMOTHERED CHICKEN 


Select a 2 pound young chicken, dress in the usual way, split down the 
back, wash and drain. Dredge with 2 teaspoons salt, “% teaspoon pepper, 
place in pan, dredge with 3 tablespoons flour, dot over with butter, place 
in oven until well browned. Add 2 cups hot milk, cover, and allow to 
cook slowly until tender. If the milk has cooked away so that there is 
not sufficient sauce left in the pan, an additional 12 cup milk thickened 
with 1 tablespoon flour might be added. 


RACHEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 


101 


) 
THE QUAKER COOK BOoK 





BARBECUED CHICKEN BREASTS 


8 or 10 pieces chicken breasts 1 teaspoon chili powder 
4 tablespoons catsup 14 teaspoon red pepper 
3 tablespoons water 14 stick butter (melted) 
1 tablespoon lemon juice Salt 
4 tablespoons white sauce or Pepper 
cream of mushroom soup Dash of Tabasco 
2 tablespoons vinegar 12 to 15 drops liquid smoke 
1 teaspoon dry mustard (optional) 


Mix well all ingredients except chicken to make sauce. Add chicken 
and marinate at least 30 minutes(over night is better). Place in well 
oiled double paper bag and place on sheet of aluminum foil that has 
been cupped on edges to make a form of shallow pan. Bake 15 minutes 
at Uy and one hour at 350°. (Whole chicken or any part may be 
used. ) 


WILLIAM MCLENDON, Traffic Representative 
Western Maryland Railroad, Atlanta, Georgia 


CREAM CHICKEN 


144 cups diced cooked chicken 3 tablespoons fat 


1 stalk celery 2 tablespoons flour 
Salt and pepper to taste % cup milk 
1 egg yolk 1 cup chicken broth 


For White Sauce 


Melt the fat, stir in the flour until well mixed. Add the milk and broth, 
then cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. Beat egg yolk. Stir in a 
small amount of the hot white sauce and add the rest of the sauce. 
Add the chicken, celery, and cook until hot. 


To Stew Chicken 


Cut up, barely cover with water. Add 11% teaspoons of salt. Simmer, 
do not boil, until chicken is tender. Meat is juicier if cooled in the broth. 
A 4 pound dressed hen will give you about 3 pounds or 3 to 4 cups of 
chicken after cooking. 

FAYE HAYES (Mrs. Clarence) 


102 


MEATS 








CHICKEN CROQUETTES 


2 cups chicken broth or water 14 teaspoon pepper 

1 cup Quaker oats lg teaspoon nutmeg 

2 cups ground cooked chicken 1 teaspoon celery seed 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 teaspoon salt 14 cup mushrooms chopped 


Cook Quaker oats in boiling broth or water slowly for 5 minutes, 
stirring frequently. Combine cooked oatmeal, chicken, lemon juice, and 
seasonings. Lightly brown mushrooms in 2 tablespoons chicken fat 
or butter and add to mixture, combining thoroughly. Cool. Shape into 
12 croquettes, roll in dry bread crumbs, dip in beaten egg to which 2 
tablespoons milk have been added, and roll again in crumbs. Place in 
wire basket and fry in hot deep fat (375°) until golden brown. Serve 
hot. 6 servings. 


CHICKEN PIE 


Cook until tender a 4% or 5 pound fat hen. Remove meat from bone 
and shred. Add 2 cups milk to broth and bring to a boil, thicken with 
4 cup flour. Cool and add chicken. Season with pepper. 


Pastry 
Sift 5 cups flour, make your favorite biscuit dough with soda and sour 
milk with extra shortening added. Line a 10x14 inch pan with pastry, 
spread chicken over bottom add top crust and bake at 350° until brown. 


Serves 12. 
SALLIE ALLEN (Mrs. C. F.) 


HAM AND PORK LOAF 


1 pound ground ham 1 cup tomato juice 
114 pounds ground pork 1 cup bread crumbs 
1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 


4 teaspoon pepper 
Beat eggs. Mix bread crumbs and tomato juice together, then add all 
ingredients and make into loaf. Bake in oven at 350° for 1% hours. 
You can substitute beef for pork and ham, making up in same way, 


adding a little more salt. 
STELLA Hiatt (Mrs. Wade) 


a eee 
103 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 








HAM AND PORK CUTS 
Cured Ham 


Amount To Buy Per Person 


Y2 to ¥% pound uncooked bone-in ham 
143 pound uncooked boneless ham 

3 pound cooked bone-in ham 

Yg to ¥% pound cooked boneless ham 


There are a great many kinds of cured and smoked pork. Some are to 
cook at home, some ready-to-eat; some are fully cooked, some are mild 
and tender; some have a distinctive flavor. Choose the kind to suit 
your taste and purpose. It pays to read labels and know what you are 
buying. Follow instructions for cooking if they are given on the ham 
you buy. 


Roasting Schedule for Cured Pork 


INTERNAL 
OVEN TEMP. WEIGHT COOKING TIME TEMP. 
300° to 11 pounds 3% hours 150° 
ava 15 pounds 3% hours 1OOs 
20 pounds 414 hours 150. 


Add 15 minutes glazing period in hot oven (400°). A sweet glaze for a 
baked ham is a professional touch! It not only looks attractive, but it 
also tastes good. 


Sweet Glazes 


1 cup brown sugar, sifted, and 1 teaspoon dry mustard. 

1 cup honey. 

1 cup cranberry or currant jelly. 

. ¥Y4 cup crushed pineapple and 1 cup brown sugar. 

1 cup applesauce, 2 cup corn syrup, 2 teaspoons prepared mustard. 
¥2 teaspoon clove mixed with any one of the above. 


DAAAWN 


Choose your glaze, prepare, and spread evenly over the fat-scored, 


ue baked ham. Bake in hot oven at 400° until surface forms a brown 
glaze. 


MEETA HEATH JACKSON 





104 





MEATS 





GARNISH FOR BAKED HAM 


1 package lemon Jello 12 whole cloves 
1 pint boiling water 14 cup prepared horse radish 
44 teaspoon salt 


Dissolve Jello in boiling water. Add cloves and allow to cool and 
thicken. Remove cloves and add horse radish. Mix well. Turn into 
individual molds or Pyrex dish. When congealed arrange on platter with 
sliced ham. If Pyrex dish is used, cut into small squares. 


LouIsE LEE Cox (Mrs. Elwood) 


HAM TIMBALE 
2 tablespoons butter or oil 1 cup chopped ham 
1% cup stale bread crumbs 2 tablespoon parsley chopped 
4% cup milk 2 eggs 


Pepper 
Add crumbs and milk to melted butter or oil and cook 5 minutes, 
stirring constantly. Add ham, parsley, and eggs slightly beaten. Season. 
Pour into individual buttered molds and cook in oven, setting molds in 
pan of boiling water. Bake 20 minutes. May be served with or without 
a white or Bechamel sauce as desired. 


Chicken may be substituted for ham, but in that case add salt. 
ALICE PAIGE WHITE 


HAM LOAF 
244 pound ground ham Y% teaspoon pepper 
114 pounds ground pork 2 beaten eggs 
1 cup dry bread crumbs 1 cup milk 


Combine meats, crumbs, pepper, eggs, and milk. Mix thoroughly, form 
in loaf in 81/2 x 41/2 x 21/2 inch loaf pan and bake at 350° for 


1 hour. 
Horseradish Sauce 
Fold 3 tablespoons well drained horseradish into 2 cup heavy cream, 
whipped. Season with 2 teaspoon salt. 
MAuDE HaywortTH (Mrs. H. O.) 


NT 
105 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








HAM LOAF 
142 pounds uncooked ham 1 egg 
1 cup bread crumbs 1 teaspoon salt 
Y2 cup catsup or chili sauce 3 hard boiled eggs 


2 tablespoons water 


Mix all ingredients except hard cooked eggs. Make into loaf, placing the 
hard cooked eggs end to end through center of loaf. Bake in greased 
pan at 350° for at least an hour. 


FRANCES M. HAwortTH (Mrs. Horace, Sr.) 


OLD VIRGINIA SMITHFIELD HAM RECIPE 


Soak ham twenty-four hours in plenty of water to which has been added 
one-half cup black molasses, one-half pound brown sugar, handful 
of spice. Take out of this water and put into fresh water to which has 
been added the same amount of molasses, brown sugar, and few 
cloves. Let boil slowly for hours (at least 42 hour to the pound). Allow 
ham to remain in this water until cold (about two hours). Then pull 
off the skin and put in baking pan, taking cloves out of water and 
sticking them into the ham. Put in just a little brown sugar, molasses, 
and water. Bake about three-quarters of an hour basting all the while. 


MAY TOMLINSON (Mrs. C. F.) 


SWEETBREAD PATTIES 


1 pair sweetbreads Cayenne 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup cream 

2 tablespoons flour 5 large mushrooms, or half as 
44 teaspoon salt much canned mushrooms as 
White pepper sweetbreads 


Sweetbreads spoil very quickly. Remove from paper at once, soak in 
cold water 10 minutes, and parboil 15 minutes. Add salt 5 minutes 
before they are done. Put them in cold water for 15 minutes, then 
remove tough portions. Cut into small pieces and chop mushrooms 
fine. Saute in butter. Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, seasoning, 
and cream. Add the cut sweetbreads and chopped mushrooms and when 
hot serve in patty dishes or timbales. If desired, the mushrooms may 
be omitted and twice as many sweetbreads used. 


RACHEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 





106 


MEATS 





HAM PIE 


(A good way to use the last of a baked or boiled ham) 


Cut ham from bone and stew with a little water. Make pastry as for 
chicken pie using two crusts. Put in ham with gravy in which it was 
boiled. Season with pepper and butter and also add a sliced hard boiled 
egg or two. Cover with top crust and bake at 475° ten minutes, then 
at 350° until pastry is done. 

May TOMLINSON (Mrs. C. F.) 


BRUNSWICK STEW 


1 hen 1 teaspoon Tabasco sauce 
2 pounds veal 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
4 hard-boiled eggs sauce 


tablespoons salt 
teaspoons white pepper 
can corn 


Sweetbreads from a hog 
1 can English peas 

1 large onion 

2 cans tomatoes can mushrooms 
1 bottle tomato catsup cup butterbeans 
2 pounds butter cup cut okra 


Put chicken and other meats on to boil in 3 pints water. Cook until meat 
will be very tender. Remove bones, cut to pieces, return to liquid. Add 
tomatoes, okra, onion and seasonings. Cook slowly and thoroughly, 
stirring often. Fifteen minutes before serving, add English peas, mush- 
rooms, butter, and diced hard-boiled eggs. One cup of diced olives is 
liked by many, these to be added the last minute. 


For a large ’cue use six times this recipe. 


This is a famous Macon recipe and I do not believe a better one can 
be found anywhere. 


ba eed pt ber KO HOD 


A Macon Lapy, Macon, Ga. 


PORK CHOPS SUPREME 
Brown 6 pork chops on both sides in a frying pan. Season with salt and 
pepper. Put chops into a casserole with thin slice of unpeeled lemon 
on top of each one. 


Mix 1% cup brown sugar with 14 cup water. Pour over top so that some 
of the liquid is poured on each chop. Cover and bake at 350° about 1 
hour. Turn chops once or twice during baking. 


LAURA WHITE (Mrs. Murray) 


107 





THE QUAKER CooK Book 


BRUNSWICK STEW 


1 hen (cooked, removed from 
bone, and cubed) 

1 cup of water if cooked in 

pressure cooker 

package frozen peas 

package frozen butterbeans 

potatoes (cooked & diced) 

onion 


eee al en 


3 carrots (cooked and diced) 

12 cup celery 

3 tablespoons tomato catsup 

1 tablespoon mustard 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
sauce 

Salt and pepper to taste 


Cook ingredients separately, combine and season. Simmer for a little 


while. 


J. C. BARKER 


BRAISED ROAST OF LAMB 


1 rolled shoulder of lamb 
44 cup melted drippings or 
butter 
Y2 cup chopped onion 
1 sliced carrot 
2 cups tomato juice or canned 
tomatoes 


14% cup chopped turnip 
Y2 cup chopped celery 
V2 bay leaf 

1 teaspoon salt 

4 whole peppercorns 

2 cups water 


Melt fat in heavy kettle with tight fitting lid. Brown meat on all sides. 
Remove from kettle and cook the chopped vegetables in the fat for 10 
minutes. Return the meat to the kettle and add other ingredients. Cover 
and cook over low fire for about two hours or until meat is tender. 
Remove meat and thicken stock with flour for delicious gravy. 


BARBECUED SPARERIBS 


2 pounds spareribs 

44 cup chopped onions 
| tablespoon drippings 
1 cup water 

Y2 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons vinegar 


1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
sauce 

Y4 cup lemon juice 

2 tablespoons brown sugar 

1 cup chili sauce 


Cut spareribs into pieces for serving and bake in a hot oven (500°) 
for 15 or 20 minutes. Saute onions in fat, add other ingredients and 
simmer for 20 minutes. Pour this sauce over the spareribs and bake 1 
hour longer at 350°. Baste frequently with the sauce. Serves four. 


108 


MEATS 








ROAST PORK 
Allow % to ¥% pound boned ham per serving. 
Allow % to ¥% pound bone-in ham per serving. 


Place ham, fat side up, on a rack in an open pan. Rub with 14 teaspoon 
salt per pound. Do not sear surface and do not add water. Leave 
uncovered. Roast in a slow oven 300°-325° until the meat thermometer 
registers 180°. This is well done. 


; WEIGHT COOKING TIME INTERNAL TEMP. 
Ham 5 pounds 414 hours 185° 
Loin 5 pounds 342 hours 185° 
Shoulder 
bone-in 5 pounds 3% hours 10. 
boned 4 pounds 324 hours jhe 


Glaze for Roast Pork 


Cover the surface of the uncooked roast with a mixture of 114 cups 
brown sugar, 2 or 3 tablespoons vinegar, 1 teaspoon mustard, % 
teaspoon powdered clove or ginger. 


MEETA HEATH JACKSON 


BREAST OF VEAL WITH RAISINS AND SOUR CREAM 


3 pounds breast of veal 1% cups beef stock 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup thin sour cream 
¥Y4 cup white raisins 1 tablespoon currant jelly 
4 sliced mushrooms Salt 

1 teaspoon tomato paste Cayenne pepper 

3 tablespoons flour 1 bay leaf 


Cut veal in small cubes and brown quickly in butter. Remove meat and 
add raisins to the pan. Cook briskly for 2 or 3 minutes, and add mush- 
rooms, tomato paste and flour. When well blended, pour on the beef 
stock. Stir over the fire until the mixture comes to a boil. Add slowly 
and carefully, beating steadily with a whisk, the sour cream, currant 
jelly, salt, cayenne pepper, and bay leaf. Put back the veal and simmer 
gently until tender. Serve with bowl of boiled rice. 


VIVIAN C. SULLIVAN (Mrs. Paul) 





109 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








STUFFED PORK CHOPS 


Use chops about % inch thick, sliced through to make pockets for 
stuffing. For each chop use: 


1 teaspoon oleo melted 1 thin slice bread, crumbled 
1 teaspoon applesauce into oleo 
(optional) Pinch salt 
¥3 Of small apple chopped into Few tablespoons water to 
thin, small pieces moisten 


¥3 stalk celery, chopped 


Mix all ingredients in sauce pan where oleo was melted. Rub salt on 
both sides of chops and in pockets. Stuff. Place in iron frying pan and 
bake about 1 hour at about 350°. 


A stuffed chop with a salad will make a meal. 


CATHERINE Parsons (Mrs. J. S.) 


VEAL PAPRIKA 


14% pounds veal steak 4 tablespoons butter 
¥4 teaspoon salt 1144 cups stock (add boullion 
¥g teaspoon pepper cube to boiling water) 
1 clove garlic or 2 minced ¥4 cup sour cream 
onions 34 teaspoon paprika 


Cut veai steak into 2-inch squares and season with salt and pepper. 
Saute garlic or minced onion in hot fat for three minutes. Add meat and 
cook, turning often, until brown. Add the stock and cook over low 
heat for 1 hour. Remove garlic and add sour cream and paprika. Heat 
but do not boil. Especially good with buttered noodles. 


GENEVIEVE BOYNTON (Mrs. A. B.) 


ROAST LEG OF LAMB 


Rub the meat with cut garlic and dredge with flour. Place fat side up 
in an Open pan in oven preheated to 300° for 30 to 35 minutes per 
pound. Season with salt and pepper during last half hour of roasting. 


Whole potatoes or onions may be baked in the roasting pan. Baste 
occasionally with fat from the meat. 





110 


MEATS 








- TURKEY ON BUN 


Toast or toasted bun Broccoli or asparagus with 
Sliced roast turkey cream or Hollandaise sauce 
Chopped almonds 


Roast turkey, toast buns. Place buns plus turkey, plus vegetable and 
sauce with or without almonds on plate and serve. 


Wonderfully filling one-dish meal. 
Mary ALAN FLINN 


VEAL CUTLETS 


1 pound veal steak or cutlets ¥g teaspoon pepper 
] teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter 


Remove bone and skin and tough membrane. Put them on to boil in 
two cups of water for later use. Then cut the veal into pieces for serving. 
Season veal with salt and pepper and dredge with flour. Place butter in 
pan. When hot, add the cutlets. When well browned, place in a double 
boiler and put the following ingredients in the pan: 


2 tablespoons butter 14 teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons flour _ Y teaspoon pepper 


Brown this mixture then add: 
1% cups of water or stock made from boiling the bones and tough 
pieces. Cook until smooth and pour over the cutlets. Allow to cook 


for 1 hour at a low temperature. 
RACHEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 


VEAL SUPREME 


4 pieces veal cutlet 1 inch 8 strips bacon 
thick, 3 inches round 8 mushrooms 
4 slices tomato, % inch thick 8 stuffed olives 
4 slices onion, 12 inch thick Pepper, salt, prepared mustard 


Make veal cutlets into rounds about 3 inches across, salt and pepper 
each and spread generously with mustard. Top each with an onion 
and tomato slice. On two slices of bacon crossed place cutlet, pin 
up ends of bacon with toothpicks. Place in baking pan, cook at 350° 
for 1 hour. Decorate with mushrooms and olives on toothpick ends. 


Serves 4. 
ANNIE HAUSER (Mrs. C. M.) 





THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 





CANADIAN BACON BAKED 


¥2 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons fine bread 
¥Y2 teaspoon dry mustard crumbs 
2 pound piece Canadian bacon 1 tablespoon cider vinegar 


Combine first four ingredients and spread over fat side of the Canadian 
bacon. Bake the bacon uncovered in a slow oven 325° for 1 hour. 
Baste occasionally with orange or pineapple juice. Delicious either hot 
or cold and there’s no waste. 


TURKEY TETRAZZINI 


4 cups cold turkey, cut in bite 1 quart white sauce 
size pieces 1 7-ounce package spaghetti 
1 6-ounce can sliced mush- 1 cup grated sharp cheese 
rooms | 1 cup bread crumbs 
White Sauce 
4 tablespoons chicken fat 1 pint sweet milk 
6 tablespoons flour 1 pint chicken stock 
I tablespoon kitchen bouquet 


Cook spaghetti in boiling water as directed on package. Drain. Use a 
pan 8x12 inches and at least 2 inches deep. Put spaghetti in pan, cover 
with turkey, then the mushrooms, then white sauce, and top with mixed 
cheese and crumbs. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Yield: 8 or 10 
servings. | 

ANNIE TOMLINSON HAUSER (Mrs. C. M.) 


"ROSETTA'S" TURKEY DRESSING 


Small pan corn bread 1 egg 

10 slices white bread % cup milk or cream 
Y2 cup chopped celery Turkey broth 

1 small onion (chopped) ~ Salt and pepper 


¥Y2 teaspoon celery seed 


Crumble bread. Add celery and onion. Add enough hot broth to 
moisten. Let stand 15 minutes. Then stir in other ingredients. Spread 
¥%4 inch thick in pan. Bake at 400° from 30 to 40 minutes. 


SARAH TOMLINSON FOSCUE (Mrs. James) 


ibe 


MEATS 





TOMATO GRAVY 


Take a large frying pan and using a suitable brand grease (such as 
Spry) slice the tomatoes, dredge in flour, and fry. After they are fried, 
remove about three-fourths of the tomatoes, leaving a few that have, 
perhaps, started to disintegrate or fall apart. Remove pan from fire, 
mash tomatoes and stir in a flour paste. Add pinch of soda. After these 
are well mixed, milk in the desired quantity is added and frying pan 
returned to heat. Caution must be taken that the milk is not boiled and 
is just brought slowly to a simmer. Add the remaining tomatoes to 
reheat them. Salt and pepper can be added to season. 


Recipe from Westown School 


STEAK BUTTER SAUCE 
(For Broiled Steak) 


Cut clove of garlic Salt 
Dry mustard Freshly ground black pepper 
Cayenne pepper Steak sauce 
1 teaspoon finely cut chives or Butter 
onion 


Take a large steak platter. Rub it lightly with a cut clove of garlic. 
Then dust platter with a little dry mustard, a shake of cayenne pepper, 
a teaspoon of finely cut chives or onion, salt and freshly ground black 
pepper. Add a few shakes of any good steak sauce, then dot platter 
with several pats of butter. Stand in a warm place until butter melts 
and runs over the seasonings and bring them into subtle harmony. 
Plunk your sizzling steak right on the platter. 


ELIZARETH R. Poston (Mrs. Banks) 


ROAST TURKEY 
Hang up a few hours before roasting, but if not convenient to do so, 
rub dry and grease all over thoroughly. Place turkey fat on the side 
uppermost in pan, place on a cloth large enough to cover turkey 
completely and fasten cloth. Place in roaster, add a little water, lay a 
piece of brown paper over to prevent browning too soon (if paper gets 
too brown, change it). This method prevents having to baste the turkey. 
Start with moderate heat. In three or four hours it will be deliciously 
juicy and tender. 
Mrs. J. J. HAworTH 


113 


114 





THE QUAKER CooK Book 


ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


“ 
AN 
EN 


enaeet 


ie 








eacnve 
soses 


3 
Gti! 





Hl af 
Xl 


SLU: 
| ie 


Pickles and Preserves 


BEET PICKLES 


Cook small beets until they are tender. Plunge them into cold water 
and slip off skins. Cover them with spiced vinegar and simmer for 15 
minutes. Seal in clean, hot jars. 


Spiced Vinegar 


1 quart vinegar 1 tablespoon white mustard 
] pint sugar seed 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon allspice 1 teaspoon salt 


Put all spices in small white bag so they can be removed. 


BREAD AND BUTTER PICKLES 


7’ pounds cucumbers (12 Salt 
medium ) 5 small onions 
Syrup 
2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon each whole celery 
1 tablespoon whole white seed, whole black pepper, 
mustard seed salt, ground ginger and 
2 cups vinegar ground turmeric 


Cut cucumbers and onions into 4% inch slices and place in separate 
bowls. Sprinkle 4% cup salt over cucumbers and 1 tablespoon over 
onions. Soak 1 hour. 


Rinse in cold water and drain thoroughly. Mix syrup in large kettle and 
bring to boil to dissolve sugar. Add cucumbers and onions and boil 


about 10 minutes. Seal in sterilized jars. 
CLARA WORTH BRYAN 


Pema San rae ES aed at ea a a 
115 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








BREAD AND BUTTER PICKLES 


1 gallon small cucumbers 5 cups vinegar 

2 green hot peppers 14 teaspoon ground cloves 
8 small white onions 2 teaspoons turmeric 

Y2 cup salt 2 tablespoons mustard 
412 cups sugar 1 teaspoon celery seed 


Wash and slice cucumbers, wash and slice onions, shred peppers. Mix 
with salt. Place ice over bowl, let stand in refrigerator for three hours. 
Drain, pour over and heat slowly to boiling point the other ingredients. 
Seal in sterilized jars. 


EVELYN THOMPSON (Mrs. Blake) 


DILL PICKLES 


Place a piece of dill in bottom center and on top of quart jar filled with 
cucumbers. 


Bring the following mixture to a boil and pour over cucumbers: 


1 quart vinegar 5 quarts water 
1 cup salt 


(A clove of garlic may be added if desired). 
Seal tightly in jar. 
FRANCES M. HAwortH (Mrs. H. S., Sr.) 


TOMATO CRISPS 


2 gallons lime water (3 cups 1 teaspoon each of cloves, gin- 
lime to 2 gallons water) ger, allspice, celery seed, 

7 pounds green tomatoes mace and cinnamon 

5 pounds sugar 3 pints vinegar 


Slice tomatoes thin. Soak for 24 hours in lime water. Drain and soak 
4 hours in fresh water, changing water every hour. 


Make syrup of sugar, vinegar and spices. Bring syrup to boil and pour 
over tomatoes. Let stand over night. In the morning boil 1 hour and 
seal in Jars. 


LELIA T. CLINARD (Mrs. John) 
PEARL SHEETZ (Mrs. J. Lloyd) 


116 


PICKLES AND PRESERVES 








CRANBERRY RELISH 


1 pound raw cranberries 1 large orange 
1 cup sugar, more if desired 1 large red apple 


Seed orange, removing any dark spots. Core but do not peel apple and 
grind together with the cranberries. Blend well with sugar and place in 
refrigerator for 24 hours before serving. Good with meat and fowl. 


ETHEL D. TOMLINSON (Mrs. S. H.) 


HASTY CUCUMBER PICKLES 


Quarter 1 dozen cucumbers, sprinkle over them % cup salt, cover with 
boiling water, and let stand overnight. In the morning pour off salt 
water, cover again with boiling water, drain, and cover with vinegar, 
1 cup brown sugar, and spices to taste. Let come to a boil and remove 
from fire. These pickles when cold are ready for immediate use. 


Mrs. E. T. HARMON 


ICICLE PICKLES 


1 quart vinegar 1 tablespoon mustard seed 
1% cups sugar 14 oup salt 


Bring to boil. 
Cut cucumbers in quarters. Let stand in water with a lot of ice cubes 
for three hours. Pack in quart jars adding 3 small onions and 1 3-inch 
stick celery to each jar. 
Pour hot syrup over cucumbers and seal. 

BETTIE VARNER 


PICKLED PEACHES 


2 pounds sugar 4 quarts peaches — halves of 
2 cups vinegar Freestone peaches or whole 
2 sticks cinnamon firm fruit may be used 


2 tablespoons whole cloves 


Boil sugar, vinegar and spices for 20 minutes. Drop fruit in a few at 
a time and cook until tender. Pack in hot sterilized jars, adding syrup 
to 14 inch of the top; seal. Makes four quarts. 


Oe Se 
BR, 


THE QUAKER CooK BOooK 





8-DAY SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES 


1 peck cucumbers - - 1 gallon water 
1 cup salt , 


Put whole cucumbers. which have not been washed into stone or glass 
jar and pour salt water solution over them. Weight down so that all 
cucumbers are covered with solution. Let soak for 1 week. 


On 7th day take cucumbers out of brine solution. Wash thoroughly and 
cut in 1-inch rings. Wash out jar and return pickle rings to jar. Add 
1 gallon water to which 1 cup slack lime has been added. Soak for 
3 hours. Wash again and drain. 


Make the following syrup, cover cucumber rings, and soak overnight: 
1 cup vinegar 1 box mixed pickling spices 
1 cup sugar : tied in bag 


Next morning pour off syrup and boil about 10 minutes. Pour over 
rings and let stand 2 hours. Then put all together on stove and cook 
10 to 15 minutes. Pack in clean, sterile jars and seal. 


LALA JOHNSON (Mrs. Edgar) 


MISS JENNIE'S ENGLISH CHOPPED PICKLES 


144 heads of cabbage (about 1 gallon green cucumbers 
2% pounds) 15 large onions 
1 gallon green tomatoes 
Chop the above ingredients fine, sprinkle with 1 cup of salt and set 


aside for 24 hours. Press juice out and cook in 3 quarts of vinegar 
with the following added: 


4 pounds brown sugar | 1 tablespoon allspice 
1 package seedless raisins 1 tablespoon ginger 
6 hot peppers 4 tablespoons celery seed 
3 sweet peppers 1 tablespoon ground cloves 
8 tablespoons white mustard _ 1 tablespoon tumeric 

seeds 


Cook until tender and seal in jars. 
JOSEPHINE PAUL IRWIN (Mrs. Jas) 





118 


PICKLES AND PRESERVES 





CRISP CUCUMBER PICKLES 


Soak cucumbers in ice water for 5 hours. Cut lengthwise and pack 
very closely in quart jars, adding a few stalks of celery and a few 
small onions to each jar. 


Heat: 
1 quart vinegar Y2 cup water 
1 cup sugar Y cup salt 


Bring this to good boil and pour over the cucumbers. Seal at once. 
FRANCES M. HAworTH (Mrs. H. S., Jr.) 


ARTICHOKE CHOW-CHOW 


12 peck artichokes 1 tablespoon turmeric 

4 large onions 2 tablespoons white mustard 
242 cups sugar seed 

3 pints vinegar 2 tablespoons celery seed 

3 tablespoons salt 1 teaspoon red pepper 


Grind artichokes and onions coarsely. Mix with other ingredients and 
simmer half an hour. Seal. 


Frances M. HawortH (Mrs. H. S., Sr.) 


PEAR RELISH 
1 gallon hard pears, coarsely 14 red and green peppers 
ground (sweet), coarsely ground 
14 gallon sweet onions, 4 hot peppers, coarsely ground 
coarsely ground 
Mix well and add 114 cups salt. Let stand over night. Next morning put 
in bag and drain. Rinse mixture 3 times and squeeze dry. 


Mix the following for syrup: 


2 quarts vinegar 1 tablespoon turmeric 
3 tablespoons white mustard 5 cups white sugar 
seed 3 tablespoons celery seed 


Cook syrup 10 minutes. Add ground mixture and let simmer 10 
minutes. Pour in hot jars and seal. 


JENNIE H. HEDGECOCK (Mrs. Leslie) 


NN 
119 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 








WATERMELON RIND PICKLES 


7 pounds rind — 1 pint vinegar — 
3 pounds white sugar ; 2 tablespoons spice 
1 tablespoon lime 


Pare off carefully the green part of the rind of a ripe watermelon. Trim 
off the red pulp and cut in any shape liked. Soak overnight in lime 
water. To make lime water add tablespoon of lime to one gallon of 
water. Rinse with hot water, then cool. Boil in strong ginger tea. Let 
vinegar, sugar and spices come to a boil. Put in rind and cook slowly 


three or four hours. 
Mrs. C. A. RING 


CHOW-CHOW 
2 medium cabbages 1 tablespoon celery seed 
Y2 as much green tomatoes 3 pints vinegar 
1 pound brown sugar . 1 pint chopped onion 
34 cup flour Y dozen red or green peppers 
7 tablespoons dry mustard 1% box turmeric 


Salt to taste 


Chop all vegetables. Mix sugar, flour, mustard and celery seed with 
vinegar. Stir well. Combine vegetables with syrup and cook slowly about 
45 minutes. Stir to prevent sticking. Pack in sterile jars and seal. 


PEPPER RELISH 


1 red pepper 14 medium onions 
12 green peppers 2 tablespoons salt 


Grind. Pour boiling water over ground peppers and onions and let stand 
five minutes. Drain. Cover with boiling water again and let stand ten 
minutes. Drain. Add: 


1 quart apple vinegar 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
3 cups brown sugar allspice and ginger 
Y2 teaspoon cloves 


Cook twenty minutes. Put in sealed jars. 
Mrs. R. K. MARSHALL 


120 


PICKLES AND PRESERVES 





DELICIOUS PEPPER RELISH 


12 green peppers 2 cups vinegar 
12 red peppers 2 tablespoons salt 
12 medium sized onions Y2 cup sugar 


1 hot pepper 


Grind peppers and onions. Cover with boiling water and let stand 10 
minutes. Drain and bring to boil in syrup made of vinegar, salt and 
sugar. Simmer gently about 10 minutes. Seal in sterilized jars. 


CLARA WORTH BRYAN 


CHICAGO HOT (Uncooked) 


1 peck ripe tomatoes chopped 2 tablespoons mixed spices 
fine and drained 1 cup whole mustard 
cups chopped celery cups white sugar 

cups chopped onion scant cup salt 

red and green peppers cups good vinegar 
chopped 


BN W 
Are Nv 


Mix all together. No heating. 
BERTHA SHEETZ 


WILD PLUM AND APPLE MARMALADE 


Cook apples and plums in small amount of water until tender. Run 
through sieve. To 1 cup pulp, add %4 cup sugar. Cook until thick, 
approximately 30 minutes. 


SYRUP FOR ANY SWEET PICKLE 


1 pint apple vinegar 3 tablespoons cinnamon stick, 
3 pints sugar broken 
2 tablespoons allspice 2 tablespoons whole cloves 


Boil pickles until done. 
Mrs. MINNIE WORTH 


121 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





DAMSON PRESERVES 
Y gallon damson plums 2¥2 pounds sugar 

Wash and seed plums which should yield about 1% pounds. Start over 
slow burner in covered pot and cook until plums are well done—approxi- 
mately 15 minutes. There will be considerable juice. Turn burner to high 
and add entire amount of sugar, stirring constantly. When it comes to a 
rolling boil, turn burner down a bit and cook for 5 minutes. (If plums are 
very ripe it will require 1 minute longer.) Seal in sterilized jars. 

This produces a fine fresh-fruit flavor much superior to longer cooking. 
methods. 

(Bertha Sheetz cooks plums first then seeds are easy to remove.) 


EpNA Y. BULLA (Mrs. James) 


FIG PRESERVES 
Green figs Sugar 
To each pound figs allow 1 pound sugar and % pint of water. Salt 
brine that will float an egg. 
Make a slit across the top of each fig, cover them with brine and let 
them remain for 8 days. Drain well, boil gently in a little water until 
quite tender, then drain again and cover with cold water. Change the 
water daily for three days, and on the third day have ready a syrup 
made of sugar and water in the proportions given above. 
Boil the figs in the syrup for ten minutes, and repeat the process daily 
for 3 or 4 days, until the figs are tender and green. Place them in jars, 
add syrup, cover closely, and store in dry cool place. 
HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


PEACH AND ORANGE MARMALADE 
24 peaches 3% pounds sugar 
4 oranges, fruit and rind 
Put both fruits through the food chopper, add sugar and let stand over 
night. Boil slowly for about 2 hours, or until done. 


BLACKBERRY JAM 
6 pounds blackberries 6 pounds sugar 
Wash berries. Mash and dip off juice. Mix with sugar. Boil sugar and 


Juice about 5 minutes. Add berries to syrup and cook until thick. Stir 
to prevent sticking. Put in clean jam jars. 





122 


PICKLES AND PRESERVES 








FIGS—PRESERVED OR CANNED 


6 quarts figs 1 gallon boiling water 
1 cup baking soda | 1 pound sugar 


Canned 


Sprinkle soda over figs and add boiling water. Allow to stand for 5 
minutes. Drain and rinse well. Put figs into fresh water and boil 2 
minutes. Drain and use this water with 1 pound sugar for syrup. Cook 
for 5 minutes in syrup, then pack into clean jars and seal. Process in 
water bath 30 minutes or in pressure cooker at 5 pounds for 10 minutes. 


Preserves 


Prepare as above except let figs stand in soda bath water 15 minutes. 
Prepare a syrup of 8 cups sugar to 3 quarts water. Bring to a boil and 
boil hard for 10 minutes. Then drop figs in slowly so as not to stop 
boiling. Cook until figs are transparent. Lift figs out and put into shallow 
pan. Boil syrup down until thick and pour over figs. Let stand over 
night, then pack into sterile jars and process 20 minutes in water bath 
at simmering. 


STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 


2 quarts berries 1 quart sugar 


Put berries and one pint sugar over rather hot flame and boil hard for 
10 minutes. Add remaining sugar and boil another 10 minutes. Allow 


to cool and then seal. 
CHARLOTTE AMOS (Mrs. R. T.) 


RHUBARB CONSERVE 


2 pounds rhubarb cut fine 142 pounds sugar 
Juice and grated rind of 1 1 pound English walnuts, cut 
lemon fine 


Put all ingredients except the nuts together and set aside until second 
day. Pour off juice and boil it % of an hour, add fruit, and boil 10 
minutes longer. Add nuts and put in jelly glasses and seal with paraffin. 
Excellent to eat wth cold meat or as a sweet sandwich filling. 


Mrs. ANNA M. GOVE 





THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 








APPLE JELLY 


Cut apples, core, peeling and all. Add small amount of water and cook 
until apples are tender. Strain through white cloth. Do not press. To 
one cup juice, add 1 cup sugar. Boil at high heat until jelly drops from 
spoon in large drops. Skim, pour into sterile glasses. Cover with grated 
sealing wax. Heat from the jelly will melt the wax and seal. 


BLACKBERRY JELLY 


1 quart blackberries 114 cups sugar to each cup 
juice | 
Put whole berries in sauce pan with no sugar or water. Cook until done. 
Take off stove and strain and measure. Put juice back on stove and 
bring to a boil. 
Add 1! cups sugar to each cup of juice. Take off fire immediately and 
stir until sugar is dissolved. 


Pour in sterilized jars. 
BETTIE VARNER 


CRANBERRY JELLY 
1 quart cranberries 1 pint boiling water 
1 pint sugar 
Boil berries and water 20 minutes. Rub through a sieve. Return to fire, 
boil 2 minutes, then add sugar. Boil 3 minutes longer and then pour into 


glasses or molds. 
SALLY ALLEN (Mrs. C. F.) 


MINT-APPLE JELLY 


1% packed cups mint leaves 1 box powdered fruit pectin 
and stems 34% cups sugar 
344 cups bottled apple juice Green coloring 


Wash mint; place in saucepan. Crush thoroughly with wooden masher or 
glass. Add apple juice and pectin. Place over high heat; bring quickly 
to a boil. Remove from heat; cover, let stand 10 minutes. Strain through 
a fine sieve or double thickness of cheesecloth. Put over high heat. Stir 
in sugar. Bring to a full rolling boil and boil hard 1 minute, stirring 
constantly. Remove from heat. Add green coloring for desired shade. 
Skim off foam with metal spoon, pour quickly into glasses. Cover at 
once with paraffin. 
HELEN B. TOMLINSON 





124 


‘ te 

& Tm aan 
i ge Bild, 

i if 





BASIC PLAIN PASTRY 
(Enough for a two-crust pie of medium size) 


142 cups flour Ice water or cold water (about 
Y2 teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons) 
Y2 cup shortening 


Sift flour and salt. Cut in shortening until crumbly. Add water 1 
tablespoon at a time until dough is formed. Handle as little as possible. 


PASTRY 


1%4 cups flour 1 teaspoon sugar 
¥%4 teaspoon salt ¥Y4 pound butter 


Sift flour, salt and sugar. Cut in butter until pastry is crumbly. Add cold 
water—only sufficient to hold pastry together. This pastry improves with 
chilling several hours. This recipe makes three pastry shells in 9 


inch pan. 
MARTHA A. GATES 


GRAHAM CRACKER CRUST 


14% cups graham cracker % cup sugar 
crumbs 4% cup melted butter 


Press the above graham cracker crust ingredients in pie pan and cook 
for 10 minutes. Pour filling in and place in refrigerator and use when 


desired. 
DELLA WILLIAMS (Mrs. C. F.) 





123 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





PASTRY 
1 cup sifted all-purpose flour 2 teaspoon salt 
Y% cup salad oil 2% tablespoons ice water 
(Makes 1 9-inch crust) 
Sift together flour and salt. Combine oil and ice water in measuring 
cup. Beat with fork until thickened and creamy. To avoid separation, 


immediately pour (all at once) over entire surface of flour mixture. 
Toss and cut with fork. The dough will be moist. Form in ball. 


Shape dough with hands into flat round. Place between two squares of 
wax paper (about 12 inches square). Roll out until dough forms 
circle, to edges of paper. Remove top sheet wax paper, invert dough 
over pan. Peel off bottom paper. Fit pastry into pan. Trim. Fold edge 
and flute. 


For 2-crust pie double all ingredients given. 


For a baked pie shell prick entire surface of crust. Bake in hot oven 
(475°) 10 to 12 minutes. 


ELIZABETH R. Poston (Mrs. Banks) 


APPLE-LEMON PIE 


¥2 cup chopped apples % cup rolled cracker crumbs 
1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
1 beaten egg Grated rind of 1 lemon 


1 teaspoon melted butter 
Add sugar to apple. Then add beaten egg, cracker crumbs, lemon 
juice, grated rind, and butter. Bake in two pie crusts. 


Mrs. MARTHA BLAIR 


BUTTERMILK CUSTARD PIE 


1 pint fresh buttermilk 3 level tablespoons flour 

14% cups sugar 3 eggs beaten separately 

Y2 cup butter 
Cream sugar, butter and egg yolks, add flour, then buttermilk, mix well. 
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and bake on pastry in a moderate oven. 


This will make two pies. 
Miss HARRIET R. TOMLINSON 


126 


PIES 








APPLESAUCE-LEMON PIE 


3 pounds apples 1 cup sugar 

Pastry for 9-inch 2-crust pie Rind of 2 lemons 

6 tablespoons butter or Nutmeg (optional) 
margarine 


Make pastry from a mix or your own recipe. Fit half the rolled pastry 
into pie pan, save remaining half for pie top. Chill until ready to use. 


Start your oven at 425° or hot. Then peel, core and slice apples. Melt 
butter or margarine in large skillet. Dump in apples, cover tightly, and 
cook over medium heat for about 15 minutes or until apples are soft. 
Stir occasionally. Mash with potato masher if apples look lumpy, then 
stir in sugar and grated lemon rind. Pour into unbaked pie shell. Roll 
out remaining pastry and slash to allow steam to escape. Cover pie and 
seal edges securely. Bake 20 to 25 minutes. Real good. 


IoNE LOWE 
BUTTERSCOTCH PIE 
¥%4 cup brown sugar (closely ¥2 cup nut meats (optional) 
packed) 2 tablespoons flour 

14 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup scalded milk 12 teaspoon vanilla 

3 egg yolks 

Meringue: : 

1 tablespoon water ¥4 teaspoon cream of tartar 
6 tablespoons sugar ¥%4 teaspoon vanilla 

3 egg whites 


Combine brown sugar, flour, butter and salt in double boiler. Stir and 
cook until blended and add the cup of scalded milk. Beat egg yolks until 
light. Pour a little of the milk mixture over them. Beat thoroughly and 
add to mixture in double boiler. Cook until slightly thickened. Cool 
and add vanilla. Add nut meats if desired. Pour in baked pie shell, 
cover with meringue and bake in slow oven 300° for 15 to 20 minutes. 


Meringue: After ingredients are combined continue beating for several 
minutes (until it holds shape well). Pile lightly on filled pie shell and 
spread lightly with spatula. Permit to cool slowly. 


LUNA DAILE PARKER (Mrs. A. S., Jr.) 





27 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





BUTTERSCOTCH PIE 


1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla or 

1 large can evaporated milk % teaspoon walnut flavoring 
14 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons butter 

2 eggs 


Beat eggs and sugar together. Add milk, salt and flavoring. Then add 
melted butter and pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake 25 to 30 minutes 
at 350°. Top with pecans if desired. 


MAGGIE WALTON (Mrs. Clarence) 


BUTTERSCOTCH PIE 


1% cups milk 3 tablespoons flour 
1 cup brown sugar 3 eggs 
3 tablespoons butter 


Mix flour and sugar together gradually. Add milk and cook over boiling 
water until thick. Add well beaten egg yolks and mix well. Continue to 
cook until thick. Add butter and stir. Let cool slightly. Pour into 
previously cooked pie shell or individual shells. Cover with meringue. 


Meringue 
Beat 3 egg whites until stands in peaks. Add 4 tablespoons sugar and 
beat slightly. Cover pie and return to slow oven 300° until brown. 


LALA JOHNSON (Mrs. Edgar) 


CHESS PIE 
Little over 14 stick butter 1 beaten egg 
1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 tablespoon flour Y tablespoon salt 


4 tablespoons milk 


Beat egg, add sugar, flour, salt, milk and melted butter and stir until 
mixture is smooth. Pour in uncooked pastry and bake 50 to 60 minutes 
in 350° oven. 


If you would like pie dressed up—let bake for about 15 minutes and 
dot pecan halves on top and continue to bake for required lenth of time. 


STELLA HIATT (Mrs. Wade) 





128 


PIES 





BROWN SUGAR CHESS PIE 


1 pound brown sugar 3 whole eggs 
42 cup butter 1 tablespoon vinegar 
4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 


- Beat eggs, add other ingredients and stir until smooth. Pour in muffin 
pans lined with uncooked pastry and bake 30 minutes at 400°. 


Fill pan about half full. Makes 14% dozen pies. 
Mrs. JESSE HAYWORTH 


CHESS PIES 
142 cups brown sugar 4 egg yolks 
Y cup butter 1 tablespoon flour 
+3 cup milk ] teaspoon vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar. Add other ingredients in order given. Bake in 
muffin tins lined with pastry. Will serve 16 people. 


ALENE JONES (Mrs. A. C.) 


CHESS PIES 
Yolks of 6 eggs Pinch salt 
44 pound butter Nutmeg to taste 
2 cups sugar Use whites of eggs for 
1 teaspoon vanilla meringue if wanted 


Cream butter and sugar as for cake. Add yolks of eggs slightly beaten. 
Add vanilla, salt and nutmeg. Bake in individual pans or in pie pans 


as desired. 
LELIA HILL (Mrs. J. C.) 


CHOCOLATE PIE 


3 eggs separated 1 cup milk 
2 cups brown sugar 6 tablespoons cocoa 
2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon butter 


Cream butter, add sugar, egg yolks, flour, cocoa and milk. Spread in rich 
pie crust and bake, then add meringue and brown lightly. 


Mrs. ARTHUR LYON 





129 





THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 


LEMON CHESS PIE 


142 cups sugar 44 cup sweet milk 

1 tablespoon flour 14 cup lemon juice 

1 tablespoon cornmeal 3 tablespoons grated lemon 
3 whole eggs rind 


Y4 cup melted butter 
Mix sugar, flour and cornmeal with fork lightly. Add beaten eggs. 2 


Pour milk, lemon juice and melted butter into measuring cup to make 
3% cup, and add grated lemon rind. Add to other ingredients and mix 
well. Pour in chilled pie crust and bake 35 to 45 minutes in 350° oven. 
ELLAMAE FARLOW 
LouUIsSE BARKER 
Elizabeth Poston adds 12 cup sugar and one more egg to this recipe. 


CHOCOLATE BROWNIE PIE Zhe, dan | keen> 
2 tablespoons butter 3 large eggs . 
2 squares unsweetened 14 cup sugar 
chocolate ¥4 cup pecan halves 


Melt chocolate and butter over hot water. Beat eggs and sugar with 
rotary beater. Add chocolate mixture and stir in nut meats. 


Pour into pastry lined pan. Bake 40 to 50 minutes in quick moderate 
oven 375° just until set. Serve slightly warm or cold garnished with 
ice cream or whipped cream. Serves 8 to 10. 


To use cocoa, omit chocolate and sift ¥% cup cocoa with the sugar. 
Then add %4 cup melted butter to the egg and sugar mixture. 


ANN MENDENHALL (Mrs. E. E., Jr.) 


MINCE MEAT 
1 pound pork souse meat 24 cups sugar 
3 cups raisins 1 teaspoon each nutmeg, 
Y2 teaspoon salt cinnamon and allspice 


6 apples 


Pare apples, dice and cook until tender. Add other ingredients and 
simmer a few minutes. Makes 3 pies. 
ARTA BARKER (Mrs. J. C.) 


130 


PIES 





CHOCOLATE PIE 


1 tablespoon butter 1 cup sugar 

4 tablespoons cocoa 14 teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cups milk 2 egg yolks 


Melt cocoa and butter in top of double boiler while scalding milk. Mix 
sugar, cornstarch and salt and stir into milk then add the mixture to 
cocoa mixture and blend well. Cook until thick. Remove from stove 
and add two weil beaten egg yolks. Return to double boiler and cook 
two more minutes. Add vanilla, cook, and pour into baked pie shell. 
Top with meringue and brown in medium oven (350°). 


Meringue 
2 egg whites 2 tablespoons sugar 


Beat egg whites until almost stiff, then gradually add sugar and beat 
until stands in peaks. 


(This is more complicated than mixes, but oh! the difference is worth 
your time! ) 
Louise L. Cox (Mrs. Elwood) 


MINCE MEAT FOR PIES 


2 pounds beef 1 pint molasses 

1 pound currants 1 nutmeg grated 

2 pounds raisins 4 ounce of cloves 

14 pound citron 14 ounce of cinnamon 

1 pound beef suet 1 tablespoon salt 

114 pounds candied lemon 2 lemons, juice and rind 
peel 2 oranges, Juice and rind 

4 pounds apples 1 pint vinegar 

2 pounds sugar 3 pints water 


Cook meat, chop fine, chop apples, chop 1 pound raisins leaving 1 
pound whole. Mix all ingredients and let stand over night. Cook until 
fruit is done, seal while hot. Improves with age. 

This recipe is an old one and is said to have been used by the Curtis 


family of Virginia. 
Mrs. W. L. HORNEY 


eee ee ee ee 
131 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 





CHOCOLATE CHIFFON PIE 
1 package chocolate nuggets 2 egg yolks 


Cook in double boiler until thick. Let cool then fold in: 


2 beaten egg whites 12 pint whipped cream 
1 teaspoon vanilla 


Use this filling with graham cracker crust. 


DELLA WILLIAMS (Mrs. C. F.) 


COCONUT CUSTARD PIE 


4 ounces (about 1 cup) 2 eggs 

coconut, grated 2 tablespoons butter 
12 cup sugar 4 teaspoon salt 
1 cup milk 


Put grated coconut in pie crust, pour milk, beaten egg and salt over it. 
Put butter on top and bake until set and brown on top. 


VERA BARKER (Mrs. Luther) 


COCONUT CUSTARD PIE 


1 coconut, grated 4 tablespoons grated bread 
2 cups sugar crumbs 
4 eggs beaten separately Butter size of egg 


Cream butter, sugar and egg yolks well. Add coconut milk and bread 
crumbs. Mix well. Add stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake on pastry. Will 
make two pies. 

Miss HARRIET TOMLINSON 


EGG CUSTARD 


4 eggs 2% cups milk 
Y cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y2 teaspoon salt Grated nutmeg 


Beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt. Add milk and vanilla. Pour into 
unbaked pie shell and sprinkle with nutmeg. Bake 35 minutes in 425° 
oven. 


VERA F. BARKER (Mrs. Luther) 





132 





PIES 





COCONUT CUSTARD PIE 


¥4 cup sugar 1 cup scalded milk 

4 teaspoons flour 3 eggs, separated 

1 medium sized coconut, 1 tablespoon butter 
grated 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix sugar and flour. Add scalded milk and cook in top of double boiler 
until thick. Add beaten egg yolks and cook until custard consistency. 
Add butter and stir until melted. Remove from stove. Add vanilla and 
grated coconut after about five minutes. Pour into cooked pastry shell. 
Top with meringue and place in oven 350° to brown. 


Meringue 
3 egg whites 1% teaspoon vanilla 
1 tablespoon water 6 tablespoons sugar 
Dash of salt Pinch baking powder 


Beat egg whites until stiff. Add the sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time beating 
well after each spoonful. Add the vanilla. Beat. Add pinch of baking 
powder, salt and water. Mix well. Put on pie. 


LYNN WHITLEY (Mrs. A. H.) 


FROSTY PINEAPPLE PIE 


Bring to boil 114 cups crushed pineapple. Add 1 package lemon 
flavored gelatin and stir until dissolved. 


Mix in 3% to 1 cup sugar (depending on sweetness of fruit). 
Cool until almost stiff. 


Whip until stiff 1 cup chilled undiluted Carnation evaporated milk 
with 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 


Pour whipped evaporated milk on top of gelatin mixture and beat in 
slowly with rotary beater or electric mixer at low speed. Pour into 
baked pie shell. Chill at least one hour. 


When serving garnish with drained crushed pineapple if desired. 


Success tip—For a fluffy high pie be sure the gelatin mixture is almost 
stiff and that the evaporated milk is whipped until it stands in stiff peaks. 


ANN MENDENHALL (Mrs. E. E., Jr.) 





133 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





LEMON AMBROSIA PIE 


142 cups sugar 1 tablespoon finely grated 
% teaspoon cream of tartar lemon rind 

4 eggs Ye teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons lemon juice 1 pint heavy cream, whipped 


Sift together 1 cup sugar and cream of tartar. Beat egg whites at high 
speed until glossy and stiff. Gradually add sugar mixture while beating, 
scraping bowl] with rubber scraper, to a stiff meringue. Line bottom and 
sides of a well greased 9-inch pie plate with meringue, hollowing out 
center slightly and being careful not to spread meringue too close to 
rim. Bake in oven 275° for 1 hour. Cool. 


Place egg yolks in small saucepan, beat slightly. Blend in % cup sugar, 
lemon juice, rind and salt. Cook over medium heat until very thick. 


Remove from heat and cool. Fold half the whipped cream into 
lemon-egg mixture. Fill center of meringue shell and spread remaining 
whipped cream on top. Chill 24 hours in refrigerator before serving. 


SARA HUNEYCUTT 


LEMON PIE 
1 cup sugar 3 egg yolks 
1142 tablespoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon salt 
Juice and grated rind of 1 1 tablespoon butter 
lemon 142 cups hot water 
Meringue 
3 egg whites 6 teaspoons xxxx sugar 


(Beat egg whites until stiff, adding sugar one spoon at a time.) 


Mix thoroughly sugar, salt and cornstarch. Add lemon and egg yolks, 
beating well. Add hot water and cook in double boiler until thick, then 
stir in butter. 


Pour into baked pie shell, top with meringue and bake in 275° oven 
about 20 minutes. Slow baking insures a meringue that will not wilt. 


For a good flaky pie crust try ice cold 7-Up instead of water in your 
pastry. Sounds silly, but try it! 


EpDNA Y. BULLA (Mrs. James) 





134 


PIES 








MERINGUE PIE 


3 egg whites 10 soda crackers 
Y2 cup nut meats 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix sugar, rolled crackers, nuts, baking powder, vanilla and add to 
stify beaten egg whites. Pour into buttered pie tin and bake 20 
minutes in moderate oven 300°. Serve with peaches and whipped cream. 


JEANETTE WILSON (Mrs. Clark) 


TWO-CRUST LEMON PIE 


2 whole eggs 1 cup sugar 
1 tablespoon flour 1 cup milk 
1 tablespoon butter 1 large lemon 


Cut lemon in thin slices. Mix eggs, sugar, flour, butter and milk. Place 
thin slices of lemon in pan lined with unbaked crust. Pour other mixture 
over lemon. Put on top crust and bake 30 minutes in 350° oven. 


LOUISE B. BARKER 


ORANGE PIE 
Pastry: 
2 cups flour (measured after = 4 pound margarine 
sifting once.) ' 5 tablespoons cold water 
Filling: 
3 medium sized oranges 1 cup sugar 
1 tablespoon lemon juice 34 tablespoon flour 


With dough blender or by hand, mix margarine and flour. Make into a 
ball with water and roll into two round crusts to fit a 9 inch pan. Line 
pan and cover crust with half the flour-sugar mixture. Prepare the 
oranges by peeling, quartering and slicing as you would apples. Tough 
center membrane and seeds should be cut out but slicing across other 
sections is adequate. Put fruit in crust, add lemon juice and remaining 
sugar and flour. Cover with top crust which has been pricked or 
decorated. Seal edges and bake about 55 minutes at 375°. 


Esta B. HAworTH (Mrs. Cecil) 





135 


THE QUAKER CooK Book 





MACAROON PIE 


12 saltines, rolled fine 1 cup sugar 
12 dates, chopped fine % teaspoon baking powder 
2 cup chopped pecans 


Mix all ingredients listed above well. 
3 egg whites 1 teaspoon almond extract 
Beat above stiff but not dry. 


Fold egg whites (with extract) into dry mixture. Pour into well 
buttered pie plate. Bake 30 minutes in 350° oven. Cool and serve with 
whipped cream. 

HELEN B. TOMLINSON (Mrs. S. H., Jr.) 


PECAN PIE 
Y2 cup sugar 1% cup butter or margarine 
1 cup light corn syrup 4 teaspoon salt 
3 eggs 1 cup pecans 


Cream sugar, butter and salt and beat well. Add eggs one at a time, 
beating thoroughly. Add pecans. Pour in 9-inch pastry lined pie pan and 
bake 1 hour at 350°. 

MAUDE HaAyworTH (Mrs. H. O.) 


VINEGAR PIE 


2 egg yolks 1 cup boiling water 
2 tablespoons vinegar Ys teaspoon salt 
1 cup sugar Y2 teaspoon lemon flavoring 
2 tablespoons butter V2 teaspoon mace 
3 tablespoons flour 
Meringue 
2 egg whites beaten 2 tablespoons sugar 


Mix sugar, flour with beaten egg yolks, add vinegar, butter and flavoring 
with boiling water and cook until thick. Pour in baked crust and top 
with meringue. Bake 30 minutes in 350° oven or until brown. 


LouISsE B. BARKER 


136 


PIES 








STRAWBERRY PIE 


1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons melted butter 
1 cup milk 142 tablespoons flour 
2 eggs separated 1 cup ripe strawberries 


Rub sugar and flour together until smooth. Add butter and egg yolks. 
Beat until light. Add milk. Bake on rich pastry crust. While this is 
baking let strawberries stand in ¥%4 cup powdered sugar. When custard 
is done, put berries on top. Cover with meringue made from egg whites 
and brown lightly. 

| NANCY CLINARD (Mrs. J. W.) 


PUMPKIN PIE 


2 cups pumpkin 1 egg 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon cornmeal 

¥, cup evaporated milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 tablespoon flour Flavor to suit taste 


Mix sugar and pumpkin, add egg and meal. (Meal takes place of 1 egg.) 
Add flour, milk and flavoring. Use rich pie crust. Will make one 9-inch 
pie quite thick. Bake 40 to 45 minutes at 375°. 

BERTHA SHEETZ 


PUMPKIN PIE 


144 cups pumpkin V2 teaspoon salt 
1 cup milk | teaspoon cinnamon 
2 or 3 eggs 14 teaspoon nutmeg 


1 cup brown sugar (packed) 


Mix all above ingredients in bowl and beat with rotary egg beater until 
smooth. Pour in unbaked pie shell and bake 40 to 45 minutes in 


400° oven. 
VERA F. BARKER (Mrs. Luther) 


CHESS PIE (Using Karo) 
2 eggs Pinch salt 
2 tablespoons melted butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup Karo (blue label) 
Beat eggs well. Add all ingredients and beat. Pour into unbaked pie 
shell and bake 1 hour at 325°. 


OT Ea nt 
137 





THE QUAKER CooK Book 


CHOCOLATE CUSTARD 


3 egg yolks > 1 small can milk 
1 cup sugar 1 small can water 
¥Y2 cup cocoa 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix the first six items and pour into an unbaked pie shell. Bake in a 
325° oven for 30 minutes. Remove from oven and cover with meringue. 
Return to oven and brown slowly. 


Meringue 
3 egg whites 4 tablespoons sugar 
2 tablespoons water 
Mrs. GROOME FULTON 


138 





Salads and Dressings 


TOMATO ASPIC 


1 package lemon Jello Y teaspoon salt 

144 cups hot water Pepper, if desired 

1 can Hunt’s tomato sauce Chopped celery and olives may 
14% tablespoons vinegar be added 


Dissolve Jello in hot water. Add tomato sauce and other ingredients. 
Blend. Pour into individual molds. Chill until firm. Serve on crisp 


greens with mayonnaise. Yield: 6 servings. 
NOTE: For extra spiciness, add any of the following before chilling: 
onion juice, celery salt, cayenne, Worcestershire sauce, pepper sauce, 


or horseradish. 
LAURA WHITE (Mrs. Murray M.) 


MOLDED CRABMEAT 


1 package lemon Jello 2 cups flaked crabmeat 
1144 cups boiling water ¥4 cup chopped celery 
3 tablespoons vinegar 2 tablespoons pimento 
14 teaspoon salt 6 teaspoons onion juice 


14 cup Hellman’s mayonnaise 


Dissolve Jello in boiling water, add salt and vinegar and cool. When 
slightly thickened, add other ingredients, mold in large or individual 
molds. Chill. Serve on lettuce. Serves 10. 


ANNIE HAUSER (Mrs. C. M.) 





139 


THE QUAKER CooK BooK 





GULF COAST SALAD PLATTER 


2 packages lime flavored 1 tablespoon minced onion 
gelatin 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

3 cups boiling water 14 cup horseradish 

1 pound cottage cheese (the 2 tablespoons mayonnaise 
creamy fine curd type) 

Dressing 

1 cup mayonnaise 2 hard cooked eggs, chopped 

44 cup chili sauce 1 teaspoon grated onion 

2 tablespoons chopped bell Y2 teaspoon chili powder 


pepper 
Dissolve Jello in the 3 cups of boiling water, chill until slightly 
thickened, beat with egg beater until foamy, then add and mix well 
other ingredients. Pour into rinsed, lightly oiled 10-inch ring mold. 
When ready to serve, unmold on chop plate, garnish with lettuce, fill 
center with cold boiled shrimp, garnish with lemon wedges and slices 
of cucumber. Serve dressing on the side. Yield: 10 servings. . 


GERTRUDE TOMLINSON MARTIN (Mrs. Robert) 


SALMON AND COTTAGE CHEESE LOAF 
Cheese Layer 


Y2 tablespoon gelatin 3 cups cottage cheese, sieved 
2 tablespoons cold milk 14 teaspoon onion, minced or 
Y% cup hot milk dash of onion salt 


44 teaspoon salt 


Soak gelatin in cold milk, dissolve in hot milk. Combine with remaining 
ingredients. Chill until mixture begins to thicken, pour into mold. 
Chill until firm. 


Salmon Layer 


2 cups red salmon, flaked 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 cup salad dressing Y2 tablespoon gelatin 
12 cup chopped celery 2 tablespoons cold water 


Combine salmon, salad dressing, celery, lemon juice. Soak gelatin in 
cold water 5 minutes, then dissolve over hot water. Add to salmon 
mixture. Cool. Pour over cheese layer. To serve, unmold on large 
platter and garnish with watercress and tomato slices. Serves 10. 





140 


SALADS AND DRESSINGS 








SHRIMP SALAD 


| package lemon Jello 1 teaspoon green pepper 

1 cup boiling water 142 cups celery (chopped) 
Pinch of salt 1 cup pecans 

¥Y2 cup Miracle Whip 1 tablespoon grated onion 
1 cup cream (whipped) 1 can shrimp 


3 hard boiled eggs 


Allow Jello to semi-harden. Add cream and Miracle Whip and other 
ingredients. Place in molds to set. Delicious. 


LUNA DAILE PARKER (Mrs. A. Scott, Jr.) 


CHICKEN SALAD 


1 large chicken 2 tablespoons chicken oil 

2 bunches celery 2 tablespoons melted butter 
3 eggs ¥2 tablespoon sugar 

3 sour pickles 12 teacup vinegar 


¥%4 tablespoon ground mustard 


Break eggs separately, after beating yolks, add oil beating in a little at 
a time, then butter in the same way. Then the stiffly beaten whites, 
mustard, sugar and salt after first mixing thoroughly in a little water, 
then the vinegar. Cook in double boiler until very thick stirring 
constantly. Set aside to cool. Mix all thoroughly in this dressing and 
serve. One-half gallon serves 28 plates. 


KATE KEARNS (Mrs. Gurney) 


AVOCADO AND LIME SALAD 


1 large or 2 small avocados 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
| teaspoon onion juice or 1 package lime Jello 
grated onion 142 cups hot water 


Cut avocado in half and remove seed. Scoop out pulp with spoon and 
mash with a fork. Add lemon juice and onion. Pour hot water over 
Jello. When cool, add to first mixture. Pour into mold and place in 
refrigerator. When ready serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. Serves 6. 


RACHAEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 





141 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





PRESSED CHICKEN 


1 hen—5 pounds (seasoned 144 cups mayonnaise 
with salt and pepper) 1% cups chicken broth 
2 cups finely cut celery Juice of % large lemon 
4 hard cooked eggs 4 tablespoons plain gelatin 
6 tablespoons India relish (4 envelopes) 


Dissolve 4 envelopes, or tablespoons, of plain gelatin in 14 of the 
broth and add the other half hot. Mix all ingredients well with the diced 
chicken and pour into well oiled large glasses. Allow to stand over 
night. Turn out and cut in desired thickness rounds, serve on lettuce 
with a bit of extra mayonnaise to which chopped olives (optional) 
have been added. 

ETHEL D. TOMLINSON (Mrs. S. Halsted) 


BING CHERRY SALAD 


1 14-ounce can Bing cherries 1 package cherry Jello 
(seeded) 1 cup of juice plus 1 cup of 

¥Y2 cup almonds or chopped boiling water to dissolve 
nuts Jello 


Dissolve Jello. Add drained cherries, nuts and flavoring.. Makes 14 


individual molds. 
SUE S. PARKER 


JEANETTE WILSON (Mrs. E. Clark) 


CHERRY SALAD 


1 can red pie cherries 2 oranges (juice and pulp of 
1 cup sugar both and grated rind of one) 
1 package cherry Jello 1 small can crushed pineapple 
1 envelope plain gelatin ¥Y2 cup broken pecans 


VY. cup cold water 


Bring cherries and sugar to boiling point. Add Jello to hot mixture. 
Dissolve gelatin in cold water. Pour hot Jello mixture over gelatin and 
cool. Then add juice and pulp of 2 oranges and grated rind of one. 
Lastly add 1 small can crushed pineapple and % cup broken pecans. 


MAy TOMLINSON (Mrs. C. F.) 





142 


SALADS AND DRESSINGS 








PRESSED CHICKEN 


4 pound chicken 1 tablespoon gelatin 
1 cup chopped green olives 4 tablespoons cold water 
3 chopped pimentos 2 cups boiling broth 


1 cup finely chopped celery 


Cover a four pound chicken with cold water. When about half done, 
add‘salt and pepper. Boil until meat falls from bone. Remove chicken 
from broth and when cool free it from skin and bones. Return skin 
and bones to broth and cook % hour longer. Chop meat fairly fine 
and mix with 1 cup chopped green olives (stuffed ones may be used 
if you do not wish to use pimentos), 3 chopped pimentos, and 4 
cup finely chopped celery. Season well. Soak 1 tablespoon gelatin in 
4 tablespoons cold water for 5 minutes. Then add 2 cups boiling broth, 
strained and fat removed. When gelatin is dissolved, combine with other 
ingredients and place in a wet mold or pan. Slice to serve. 


JUDY CONRAD HAWORTH (Mrs. H. S., Jr.) 


LIME SALAD 
1 package lime Jello 14 cup mayonnaise 
1 package cream cheese Olives, nuts and pimento in 
Y4 cup cream, whipped desired quantity 


Dissolve Jello in 1 cup boiling water and stir in cream cheese. When 
mixture begins to thicken stir in other ingredients. Chill. 


FRANCES HAworTH (Mrs. Horace S.) 


CONGEALED CRANBERRY SALAD 


1 package cherry Jello 1 cup sugar (scant) 
2 cups ground raw cranberries 14 cup coarsely chopped 
1 orange (juice and ground pecans 
rind) 1 small can crushed pineapple 


Make Jello using the juice of the orange as part of the liquid required. 
Let stand. Grind cranberries and orange rind. Add sugar. Let stand 
a while. When Jello begins to set, add all and mold. 

Pretty and good at Christmastime. 


LELIA T. CLINARD (Mrs. John) 
MAGGIE WALTON (Mrs. Clarence) 





143 





THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





CONGEALED FRUIT SALAD 


1 can pineapple 2 cups juice from canned fruit 
1 can grapefruit sections or Juice 1 lemon 

same amount fresh fruit 12 cup sugar 
2 envelopes Knox gelatin dis- 1 cup blanched almonds 


solved in 4% cup cold water 


Add fruit juices to dissolved gelatin. Stir in other ingredients and pour 
into desired mold. Serve on lettuce. 


MAY TOMLINSON (Mrs. C. F.) 


FROZEN FRUIT COCKTAIL 


2 eggs, beaten 6 marshmallows 

2 tablespoons vinegar 1 small can pineapple 

2 teaspoons sugar 3¥4 cup heavy cream 

1 No. 2 can fruit cocktail, Bananas, as desired 
chilled Lettuce 


Combine eggs, vinegar, and sugar in top of double boiler; cook over hot 
water until mixture thickens, add marshmallows, cook and stir until 
melted, remove from heat and cool. Add fruit to custard and fold in 
the cream which has been whipped. Pour in freezer tray and freeze 
without stirring. Cut in squares. Yield: 8 servings. This salad may be 
prepared in advance. 

LALA JOHNSON (Mrs. Edgar O.) 


FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 


2 cans fruits for salad 1 tablespoon mayonnaise 
2 bananas Y pint whipping cream 
1 small can sliced pineapple 1 tablespoon sugar 


12 marshmallows 


Chop fruits for salad, bananas, pineapple and marshmallows and 
combine. Mix with 1 tablespoon mayonnaise. Whip 1% pint cream and 
add 1 tablespoon sugar. Fold cream into other mixture and place in 
2 freezer trays. Very simple, yet delicious, although it does not require 
a cooked mayonnaise. 


JUDY CONRAD HAWoRTH (Mrs. H. S., Jr.) 





144 


SALADS AND DRESSINGS 








HARVESTER SALAD 


142 cups red apples (cored 1% cups dates (chopped) 
and diced) 34 cup mayonnaise 
_3 tablespoons lemon juice Dash of salt 


142 cups celery (diced) 


Combine the apples with lemon juice. Blend the apples, celery, dates 
and salt with mayonnaise. Serve on crisp lettuce. Yield: 6 servings. 


MELITA HANING (Mrs. Ted) 


GINGER ALE SALAD 


2 cup hot water 1% cups ginger ale 

1 package lemon Jello ¥% cup diced apples 

1 tablespoon finely cut Y, cup diced pineapple 
crystallized ginger 14 cup chopped pecans 


¥Y4 cup finely chopped celery 


Into mixing bowl put 1 package lemon Jello. Add % cup hot water and 
dissolve weil. Add 112 cups ginger ale and place in refrigerator until 
slightly thickened. While waiting for Jello mixture to thicken, prepare 
fruit, nuts, and celery. Add them to Jello mixture. Congeal mixture in 
individual molds or large ring mold. Very good with chicken, turkey 
or pork. 

LALA JOHNSON (Mrs. Edgar O) 


GINGER ALE SALAD 


3 tablespoons gelatin Y% cup apple 

14% cups ginger ale 12 cup California grapes 
1144 cups boiling water 14 cup crystallized ginger 
Y2 cup pineapple Y4 cup cold water 

Y cup celery 3 tablespoons sugar 


3 tablespoons lemon juice 


Dissolve gelatin in cold water, add boiling water, sugar, ginger ale 
and lemon juice. Set aside in mold to harden. Before it gets firm, add 
fruits, celery, and ginger. 


Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise, preferably with whipped 
cream added. Two cups of grapefruit pulp may be substituted for grapes. 


This serves 10 or 12 nicely. 
KATE KEARNS (Mrs. G. H.) 





145 





THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 


FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 


2 3 ounce packages of cream 1 cup heavy cream (whipped) 
cheese 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple 

1 cup mayonnaise (drained) 

1 cup Royal Ann cherries 24 marshmallows (diced) 
(quartered) 1 cup nuts 


Combine cheese and mayonnaise, blend until smooth. Fold in whipped 
cream, fruits and marshmallows. Nuts, optional. Freeze until firm. This 
will serve eight to ten people. 

PEARL SHEETZ (Mrs. J. Lloyd) 


CREAM SLAW 
1 small head cabbage Butter size of egg 
1 cup vinegar 1 cup sour cream 
1 tablespoon sugar 1 egg 


1 tablespoon flour 


Put vinegar, sugar and butter in sauce pan and let boil. Stir egg, cream 
and flour well mixed into vinegar. Boil until thick. Pour over cabbage 
which has been chopped fine and previously seasoned with salt and 
pepper. 

Miss EtvA J. BLAIR 


PINEAPPLE SALAD DELUXE 


1 small can diced pineapple 1% cup Malaga grapes, skins 
12 cup shelled English walnuts and seeds removed 
or pecans, chopped 2 cup quartered marsh- 
mallows 


Marinate these ingredients with whipped cream, serve on lettuce and 
garnish with the following dressing: 


Pineapple juice with enough 1 egg yolk 
water to make 1 cup 12 cup sugar 
Juice of 1 lemon 1 tablespoon corn starch 


In double boiler heat liquids, add cornstarch and sugar mixed and 
dissolved in 2 tablespoons cold water. Stir until thickened and then 
occasionally for 10 minutes. Add egg yolk well beaten and cook a few 
minutes longer. Cool. 

Mrs. ALICE PAIGE WHITE 





146 


SALADS AND DRESSINGS 








FINNISH CUCUMBER SALAD 


5 small cucumbers Salt and pepper 

1 small bunch of fresh dill Pinch of sugar 

1 cup sour cream 2 tablespoons fresh tomato 

1 clove garlic pulp 

Y% cup olive oil 2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar 


Peel cucumbers and cut in very thin slices. Place on a flat dish and 
sprinkle well with salt. Leave for half hour in refrigerator, then drain 
off the liquid and mix the cucumbers with the following dressing: 


DRESSING: Finely chop the dill and add it to the sour cream with the 
crushed garlic, salt, pepper and a very little sugar; then mix in the 
tomato pulp, and add the vinegar and oil very slowly. Serve very cold. 


VIVIAN C. SULLIVAN (Mrs. Paul) 


WALDORF SALAD 


2 apples (chopped) 1 small can pineapple 
1 cup celery (chopped) (chopped) 
2 cup nuts (chopped) 
Dressing 
1 cup pineapple juice 2 eggs beaten 
14 cup sugar mixed with 11% Butter size of walnut 
teaspoons flour Juice of 2 lemons 


Instructions for Dressing 
Cook in double boiler until thick. When cool thin with cream. 


PERMELIA BREWER (Mrs. I. C.) 


LEMON-PIMENTO SALAD 


1 package lemon Jello 1 small can crushed pineapple 
1 cup hot water 1 small can pimentos 

1 cup sugar 1 small bottle olives 

14 cup vinegar 14 cup pecans 


Dissolve 1 package lemon Jello in 1 cup hot water. Add 1 cup sugar and 
Y cup vinegar. When this mixture begins to congeal add the crushed 
pineapple, chopped pimentos, chopped olives and chopped pecans. 
Then place in wet mold. 


Jupy CONRAD HAworTH (Mrs. S. H., Jr.) 


147 





THE QUAKER Cook BOOK 


PINEAPPLE-PIMENTO SALAD 


1 package lime Jello 1 small can, with juice, 
1% cups water (1 cup hot to crushed pineapple 
dissolve Jello, 4% cup 1 small can pimento (cut fine) 
cool) 2 stalks celery (chopped fine) 
1 package Philadelphia cream Dash of salt 
cheese | Nuts, if desired 


Dissolve Jello in hot water, add the cool water. Cut or mash the cream 
cheese and add to warm Jello mixture. Then add the pineapple, 
pimento, celery and:salt. Will fill nine individual molds. | 


EVELYN Davis (Mrs. Harold) 


COMBINATION SALAD 


2 tablespoons granulated 12 cup vinegar 
gelatin 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cup cold water 24 cup sugar 

1 lemon, juice and grated rind 2 cups boiling water 


Soak gelatin in cold water, then dissolve in boiling water, add sugar, 
salt, lemon and vinegar and cool. Then add: 


14% cups cabbage, cut fine 2 cup sweet red pepper, cut 
142 cups celery, cut fine in shreds or pimento 
Y2 cup nuts 


Put into mold and set in refrigerator to harden. 
Mrs. J. J. HAwWoRTH 


GOLDEN GLOW SALAD 


1 package of lemon Jello 1 cup pineapple drained 
Y%2 cup boiling water 1 cup grated carrots 

1 cup pineapple juice 1 cup crushed nuts 

1 teaspoon vinegar VY. teaspoon salt 


Dissolve Jello in hot water. Add vinegar and salt; let cool, and add other 
ingredients. Put in a cool place or in ice box to firm. 


AGNES Parsons (Mrs. D. H.) 





148 





SALADS AND DRESSINGS 





FRUIT SALAD 
2 oranges peeled in sections 14 red apple unpeeled and 
¥2 pound seeded grapes or 2 cut in wedges 
small cans white grapes Salad greens 


Arrange fruit on the salad greens and serve with lemon cream 


mayonnaise. 
| MARY WILSON WALL (Mrs. E. S.) 


: BEAN SALAD 
1 can kidney beans drained 2 hard boiled eggs chopped 
Y2 cup chopped sweet pickles Y2 teaspoon salt 
¥Y2 cup chopped celery 3 tablespoons mayonnaise 


1 small onion shredded 


Mix lightly and serve on lettuce. 
JEWEL ATKINS 


FRENCH DRESSING 


1 heaping teaspoon salt 14 teaspoon pepper 
Y cup vinegar % cup oil 
Place ingredients in a covered jar and shake. A garlic clove may be 


added for variation. 
MARIETTA T. WRIGHT (Mrs. Richard) 


BOILED DRESSING 


1 egg % cup milk 

1 teaspoon sugar 14 cup vinegar 
14 teaspoon salt Dash of pepper 

1 tablespoon flour 2 teaspoons butter 


If preferred may omit flour and use 2 egg yolks. 
If liked, add 1 teaspoon mustard. 


Mix dry ingredients, add egg slightly beaten, then butter, milk and 
vinegar last, a little at a time. Cook in double boiler until blended and 


thickened, stirring constantly. 
May Cox (Mrs. J. D.) 


es a a a 
149 


THE QUAKER Cook BOOK 








JELLIED COTTAGE CHEESE AND CUCUMBER SALAD 


1 package lime Jello 1 cup grated cucumber 

1 cup hot water ¥%4 cup cream-style cottage 
2 tablespoons lemon juice cheese 

1 teaspoon salt 12 cup chopped celery 

1 small onion, grated Lettuce 

1 tablespoon horseradish 


Dissolve gelatin in hot water. Add lemon juice, salt, onion, horseradish 
and cucumber. Chill until partially set. Add cottage cheese and celery; 
mix well. Pour into 1-quart mold. Chill until firm. Unmold on lettuce 
and serve with salad dressing or sour cream. 


FLORINE OLIVE (Mrs. H. K.) 


DREW'S MIXED VEGETABLE SALAD 


1 small can green peas 1 diced green pepper 
1 small can tiny string beans 1 diced pimento 
1 cup grated cabbage 1 cup mayonnaise 
1 cup grated carrots 12 cup chili sauce 
1 cup finely diced celery Juice of 1 lemon 
1 medium onion (diced or Salt to taste 
grated) 


Drain peas and beans and put in refrigerator while preparing other 
vegetables. Mix all vegetables except peas and beans with mayonnaise 
and seasonings. At last minute add peas and beans and toss lightly. 


MAY TOMLINSON (Mrs. C. F.) 


FRENCH DRESSING 


1 cup tomato catsup 1 cup salad oil 
Y2 cup sugar YY cup vinegar 
Juice of 1 lemon Salt and cayenne to taste 


1 tablespoon onion juice 


Slowly mix sugar and catsup, add lemon and onion juices. Slowly stir 
in alternately the oil and vinegar. Add seasonings. This dressing may 
be served on either fruit or vegetable salad. Keeps well. 


FRANCES M. HAwortTH (Mrs. Horace S.) 





150 


SALADS AND DRESSINGS 








GARDEN SALAD 


2 cups shredded cabbage 
2 cups chopped celery 
1 bunch carrots ground in 
meat chopper 
2 medium onions 
142 cups mayonnaise or salad 
dressing 


¥Y2 cup chopped nuts 

4 tablespoons sugar 

3 tablespoons vinegar 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 packages plain gelatin 
Y cup cold water 

¥Y2 cup boiling water 


Soften gelatin in cold water; then dissolve in boiling water. Cool this 
mixture and add other ingredients. Allow to congeal in greased molds. 


NINA SAUNDERS (Mrs. H. D.) 


ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING 


% pound Roquefort or blue 
cheese 

142 cups mayonnaise 

42 cup French dressing, clear 

1 clove garlic 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 


2 teaspoons dry mustard 

White pepper to taste 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce 

1 teaspoon sugar 


Work 4% pound Roquefort cheese into mayonnaise. Add French 
dressing and other ingredients, blending well. Allow to stand 12 hours 
to mellow and blend. Just before serving add %4 pound of the cheese 


in coarse crumbs. Yield: 1 pint. 


Mary WILSON WALL (Mrs. E. S.) 


MAYONNAISE (Cooked) 

1% teaspoon mustard 
1% cup vinegar 

2 tablespoons oil 


2 tablespoons flour 
1144 teaspoons salt 


4 teaspoon paprika 
12 cup hot water 


1 egg 


Cook in double boiler until smooth, stirring constantly, and then cook 
10 minutes longer. Cool and add one egg yolk slightly beaten and 
gradually one-half cup of oil. Then fold in stiffly beaten white of egg 


if desired. 


Mrs. ALICE PAIGE WHITE 





151 


THE QUAKER Cook Book 





POTATO SALAD 


6 medium size Idaho potatoes 1 small onion 

43 jar sweet mixed pickles 2 or 3 hard cooked eggs 
+4 pint mayonnaise 43 cup celery (chopped) 
Celery seed 


Boil potatoes in the skin until tender. Chop pickles, onion and eggs up 
fine. When potatoes are cold, cube to size desired, then mix with other 
ingredients. Lastly add salt and celery seed to taste. Serves 4 to 6. 


Daisy B. FREEMAN (Mrs. Charles) 


HOT CHEESE-POTATO SALAD 


6 potatoes (cooked in jackets, 114%2 teaspoons salt 
4 cups cubed) 'Y4 cup minced onion 

Y2 cup chopped celery 14 teaspoon dry mustard 

2 tablespoons finely chopped 2 hard cooked eggs (chopped) 
green pepper -% cup hot bacon fat 

¥3 cup vinegar 2 cups grated American cheese 


Combine vegetables, vinegar, seasonings and eggs. Toss lightly and 
pour in bacon fat. Pour into greased 8-inch square baking dish. Sprinkle 
with cheese and broil until cheese melts. Serve at once. Serves 8. This 
is especially good with sea food. 


RUTH CasEY (Mrs. Silas B.) 


GOLDEN DRESSING 


44 cup pineapple juice 2 eggs 
4 cup orange juice 1% cup sugar 
44 cup lemon juice 4 cup heavy cream 


Heat fruit juices in double boiler. Beat the eggs until light, gradually 
adding sugar. Combine with the hot juice and cook like a custard until 
the spoon is coated. When thoroughly cold, fold in the cream whipped 


stiff 
This dressing is suitable to serve with almost any fruit salad. 


ETHEL TOMLINSON (Mrs. S. H.) 





tS. 


SALADS AND DRESSINGS 





SECRET POTATO SALAD 


Cook 3 pounds potatoes in jacket until tender. Cool, peel, thinly slice. 
Fry % cup finely diced bacon until crisp, add %4 cup chopped onion; 
cook 1 minute. Blend in 1 tablespoon flour, 2 teaspoons salt, 1% 
tablespoons sugar, 14 teaspoon pepper. Stir in 24 cup cider vinegar and 
¥3 cup water. Cook 10 minutes, stirring well. Pour over the sliced 
potatoes, add 42 teaspoon celery seed, 3 tablespoons chopped parsley; 
mix and serve warm. Yields six portions. 


HATTIE FIDLER (Mrs. Isaac) 


LEMON CREAM MAYONNAISE 


Y4 cup mayonnaise 1% tablespoons lemon juice 
2¥2 tablespoons confectioners’ Pinch salt 
sugar 1% cups heavy cream 


Mix mayonnaise, lemon juice, sugar and salt well together. Whip 
cream and fold into other mixture. 


MARY WILSON WALL (Mrs. E. S.) 


TOSSED GREEN SALAD DRESSING 


12 teaspoon salt 14 cup vinegar or lemon juice 
Y teaspoon sugar 1 finely chopped hard boiled 
14 teaspoon dry mustard egg (if desired) 


34 cup Wesson oil 


Mix all ingredients except chopped egg in jar and shake for two minutes. 
Then add chopped egg if desired. 


Dora WARD (Mrs. Boyd W.) 


TARTAR SAUCE 


1 cup mayonnaise 1 teaspoon prepared horse- 
1 medium dill pickle grated radish 
fine 14 teaspoon each dry mustard 
1 small onion grated fine and salt 
1 small sweet pickle grated Pepper and celery seed to taste 
fine 


Mix all ingredients together and keep refrigerated in covered jar. 


GENEVIEVE BOYNTON (Mrs. A. B.) 


Seem ee 
153 


THE QUAKER Cook Book 





ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


154 


a! 


=A 


; | 4 


We, 


A 





Vegetables 


BAKED ASPARAGUS CASSEROLE 


6 tablespoons butter 2 hard boiled eggs 

6 tablespoons flour 1 medium can Del Monte 

3 cups scalded milk Mary Washington Asparagus 
1 teaspoon salt 4 cup grated cheese 


Y4 teaspoon pepper 


Make medium white sauce by melting butter, adding flour, salt and 
pepper. Mix to smooth paste. Add scalded milk and cook at low heat 
until thickened, stirring all the time. Line baking dish with asparagus 
and sliced eggs. Pour over this the sauce. Sprinkle with grated cheese 
and bake at 375° 20 or 25 minutes. Serves six to eight. 


STELLA HIATT (Mrs. Wade) 


BOSTON BAKED BEANS 


2 cups Great Northern beans Small teaspoon ginger 
14 teaspoon baking soda 34 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons brown sugar 4 tablespoons molasses 
1 tablespoon white sugar Y pound fat pork 


Soak beans over night if possible. Parboil for short time. Add all 
ingredients and bake at 350° about 8 hours unless using pressure 
cooker, then % hour in cooker and in oven until brown. Makes 1 quart. 


LoulIsE Briccs (Mrs. E. L., Sr.) 





155 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 





ASPARAGUS LOAF 


2 cups cut asparagus 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup hot cream 1 teaspoon salt 
1 egg, boiled Y2 cup bread crumbs 


Cut asparagus in one inch pieces. Add cup of hot cream and egg 
chopped, melted butter and salt. Stir bread crumbs in slightly. Put 
mixture into a baking dish and bake until a golden brown. 


Mrs. H. A. TOMLINSON 


ASPARAGUS SUBSTITUTE 


Spring onions with about 8 inches of the tops. Cook in boiling salted 
water about 30 minutes and serve with butter on toast or with white 
sauce. 

Mrs. ALICE PAIGE WHITE 


HARVARD BEETS 


3 cups cooked diced beets 6 tablespoons sugar 
3 tablespoons cornstarch Y2 cup vinegar 
Y cup water 3 tablespoons melted butter 


Combine sugar, cornstarch, butter, water and vinegar. Cook over hot 
water until smooth and thick. Season to taste. Add beets. Heat 
thoroughly. Serve at once. Serves 6. 


VADA M. VUNCANNON (Mrs. Clarence) 


CORN PUDDING 


2 eggs Y2 cup sugar (less if sweet 
3 ears young corn, well-filled corn is used) 
kernels 1 pint milk 


Salt and pepper to taste 


With sharp knife split the kernels down through the middle and scrape 
the corn from the cob. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, then the corn and 
thin with the milk. Salt and pepper to taste. Bake one hour. 


Miss Cora WHITE 





156 


VEGETABLES 
ete AS aS ne 





BEETS WITH ORANGE SAUCE 


¥3 cup sugar 3 tablespoons vinegar 
2 tablespoons cornstarch 


Mix and boil 5 minutes. 


To this add juice and grated rind of 1 orange and 2 tablespoons butter. 
Stir in cooked beets. 


BAKED BEANS 


1 pound navy beans 1% cup molasses 
1 cup tomato catsup 1 teaspoon salt 
6 slices salt pork (fat back) 


Soak beans over night and parboil in salted water about 1 hour. Put 
half of beans in an earthenware pot (or Pyrex). Add half the molasses 
and catsup and put three slices of the salt pork on top. Repeat putting 
the rest of ingredients in. Finish with salt pork on top. 


Bake in slow oven 300° for 3 hours. 


This recipe makes an excellent winter meal served with steamed brown 
bread and a salad. The brown bread cooks in the oven at the same 
time that the beans are baking. 

NANCY K. POSTON 


CREAM CABBAGE 
One small head cabbage Boiling salted water 


Shred the cabbage fine. Cook 15 minutes in boiling salt water. Drain 
and place in baking dish alternately with white sauce, pepper, salt and 
butter. Cover top with buttered bread crumbs and bake until brown. 


White Sauce 


2 tablespoons flour 1 cup scalded milk 
2 tablespoons butter 


Melt butter. Add flour and rub until smooth. Add milk slowly, stirring 
constantly to avoid lumps. Cook until creamy. Add pinch of salt. 


Mrs. Mo.ty S. Lowe 





157 


ay 


acy 
| Led; ee | 
1a, 


THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 





~CORN PUDDING 


2 cups cooked corn (fresh or 1 teaspoon salt 

canned) 2 tablespoons sugar 
1 egg 2 teaspoons butter 
1 cup milk (hot) _2 teaspoons flour 


Put corn in baking dish, add sugar, tans salt and egg. Add hot milk 
and butter. Bake in slow oven until firm about 45 minutes. Serves 6. 


ANN MENDENHALL (Missi Ere) 


CREAMED CABBAGE 


4 cups finely shredded cabbage 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
12 cup sour cream . Salt, pepper, dash of nutmeg 


Cook cabbage in boiling, salted water for 5 minutes. Drain. Add sour 
cream and seasonings and cook in top of double boiler over hot water 
for 10 minutes. Serves 4. 

CATHERINE PARSONS (Mrs. J. S.) 


' CREOLE CORN | 


3 tablespoons flour. 1 slice green pepper, chopped 
2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon parsley 

2 can tomatoes 1 can Shoe Peg corn 

2 teaspoon salt 1 egg 


1 slice onion, chopped 


Cook onion and pepper in butter, add flour and stir until smooth, add 
tomatoes and salt and stir until boiling. Add corn and parsley, when 
boiling, stir in the beaten egg. Place. in BErcaseY casserole, cover with 
crumbs and bake at 350°. 


BAKED ONIONS 
Boil onions of uniform size in salt water until tender. Place in baking 
dish, fill cavity between onions with a cream sauce, cover with bread 


crumbs and a generous amount of butter, and a little pepper. Place in 
hot oven until brown. Delicious with a beef roast. 


Mrs. W. L. HORNEY 


158 


VEGETABLES 








DUNDEE CAULIFLOWER 


1 medium cauliflower 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup juliene carrots Salt and pepper to taste 

2 cups hot milk Browned and buttered bread 
1 teaspoon flour crumbs 

1 cup grated cheese (sharp) 


Cook cauliflower in boiling milk until tender, about 12 minutes. Cook 
carrots in small amount of salted water until tender. Make cheese sauce 
by melting butter in sauce pan, adding flour, salt and pepper and milk 
from cauliflower, stirring well until thickened. Place cauliflower in 
center of shallow baking dish, place carrots around sides, pour on 
cheese sauce, cover with bread crumbs and place in hot oven for a 
few minutes. Serve immediately. 


MARY WILSON WALL (Mrs. E. S.) 


ESCALLOPED EGGPLANT 


1 large eggplant 1 teaspoon chopped onion 
Y4 cup white sauce Y2 cup tomatoes 
14 cup grated cheese 1 cup buttered bread crumbs 


Peel 1 large eggplant, cube and boil in salted water until tender, drain. 
Place layer of eggplant in bottom of baking dish or casserole. Alternate 
layers of following mixture: white sauce, grated cheese, chopped onion, 
tomatoes. Top layer should be eggplant. Cover with buttered bread 
crumbs. Bake 20 minutes at 350°. Serves 6. 


VADA M. VUNCANNON (Mrs. Clarence) 


SPINACH CASSEROLE 


2 packages frozen chopped 2 cups of medium white sauce 
spinach seasoned with red pepper 
4 hard cooked eggs and horseradish 


Cook spinach according to directions. Add chopped or sliced eggs and 
cream sauce. Place in a casserole, cover with bread crumbs and grated 
cheese. Brown in 425° oven for about 20 minutes or until brown. 


JOSEPHINE PAUL IRWIN (Mrs. Jas.) 


159 





THE QUAKER CooK Book 


LYONNAISE POTATOES 


1 cup cold boiled potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

1 small onion 1 tablespoon parsley 
Dice potatoes. Chop onion fine and fry in butter until a delicate brown. 
Turn in potatoes and heat. Just before serving add chopped parsley. 


NANCY HALE CLINARD (Mrs. J. W.) 


HASHED BROWN POTATOES 


6 cups boiled potatoes Yg teaspoon pepper 
142 teaspoons onion 3 tablespoons butter, mar- 
1 tablespoon parsley garine or bacon drippings 


1 teaspoon salt 


Add finely chopped onion, minced parsley, salt, pepper to potatoes that 
have been chopped, place in shallow well buttered pan, dot with bits of 
butter or other fat and place in heated broiler compartment so that top 
of pan is about 24% inches from flame, turn flame down to half and 
brown for 20 minutes. 

MAGGIE WALTON (Mrs. Clarence) 


SWEET POTATO PUFFS 


2 cups mashed or strained 1 cup cream 
sweet potatoes previously 4 egg whites 
boiled Pinch salt 

2 egg yolks 


Put potatoes in double boiler, add cream, stir in beaten yolks of eggs 
and salt and cook 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from fire and 
add egg whites, beating until all is very light. Put in deep well greased 
baking dish, brush with white of egg and brown quickly. 


Mrs. R. K. MARSHALL 


BAKED RHUBARB 


Line bottom of buttered baking dish with rhubarb cut in small pieces. 
Sprinkle generously with sugar, add some butter and a little flour. 
Repeat until dish is filled, cover with prabee sections, and bake at 350° 
until tender. 





160 


VEGETABLES 





SPINACH SOUFFLE 


2 cups cooked, drained 1 tablespoon melted butter 
spinach well mashed Salt to taste 
2 eggs beaten separately 1 tablespoon lemon juice 


Mix and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites last. Bake in a moderate oven. 
May Cox (Mrs. J. D.) 


CREAMED SWEET POTATOES 


Boil sweet potatoes until well done, peel, put through a potato masher. 
Season with butter and sugar. Add seedless raisins and fresh grated 
coconut. Put into a baking dish, cover with marshmallows, and put into 


oven to brown. 
DEBORAH PARKER (Mrs. A. S.) 


FRENCH FRIED ONIONS 


Slice Bermuda onions, soak about 1 hour in milk, dip in batter, and fry 
in deep fat. 


Pancake mix may be used for batter. 


GOOD STUFFED SQUASH 


To serve six: Choose three large yellow squash and six small ones. 
Wash, cut in halves lengthwise. Steam five minutes in pressure cooker 


at 15 pounds. 


While squash cooks, melt three tablespoons oleo in pan. Crumble in 
four slices bread. Keep over low heat until crumbs are brown and crisp. 
When squash is done, lift large slices out carefully. Scoop and discard 
large seeds. Scoop remainder of inside into small bowl, leaving shell 
on plate to hold stuffing. Put all small halves into stuffing bowl and 
mash with fork, seasoning with butter or oleo, salt, pepper, dash of 
onion salt if desired. Fill each large shell with stuffing. Sprinkle 
generously with crisp buttered crumbs and serve immediately. 


CATHERINE Parsons (Mrs. J. S.) 


a i a a eR Sha ats on Ft te 
161 


THE QUAKER CooK Book 








SQUASH SOUFFLE 
Make cream sauce of: 


3 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 
3 tablespoons flour Dash of pepper 
1 teaspoon salt 


Cook 2 pounds of squash, drain well and mash. Add cream sauce, 2 
eggs, ¥2 pound snappy cheese, and cook all together in double boiler 
for 1 hour. Put in casserole, add buttered crumbs, and brown. 


SCALLOPED TOMATOES 


1 can tomatoes 212 teaspoons salt 
1 small onion 4 teaspoon pepper 
3 cups buttered crumbs 


Stew tomatoes with seasoning and onion slowly, uncovered, for one 
hour. Cover bottom of baking dish with buttered crumbs, put in 
tomatoes, and cover with remainder of crumbs. Bake 20 minutes in a 
moderate oven. 

RACHEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 


STUFFED BAKED TOMATOES 


6 tomatoes 2 level tablespoons sugar 
3 tablespoons grated cheese 1 rounded tablespoon butter 
1 cup bread crumbs (biscuit, 1 level teaspoon salt 

light bread, and very little 1 small onion, cut fine 

corn bread) 14 teaspoon celery seed 


Pepper to taste 


Select smooth, medium-sized tomatoes. Shce about one-half inch off 
stem end of each. Carefully remove meat of tomato with spoon, dis- 
carding hard parts around stem. Chop fine. To this add bread crumbs, 
onions and other ingredients. Mix well and put into tomato shells. Bake 
in moderate oven 45 minutes to one hour. Sprinkle grated cheese over 
each 15 minutes before removing from oven. 


LELIA Hitt (Mrs. J. C.) 


162 


VEGETABLES 





TOMATOES AND CELERY 


Three to four stalks of celery (Paschal preferred) chopped and cooked 
in salted water. 


‘When celery is cooked tender, drain water, add butter and canned 
tomatoes. Heat and serve. 


Especially good with fish. 
RuTH M. CLINARD 


BAKED OKRA AND TOMATO 


1 dozen small pods okra 1 teaspoon salt 
4 tomatoes 4 teaspoon black pepper 
2 tablespoons vinegar 1 cup water 


2 tablespoons flour 


Slice okra with tomatoes and place alternately in baking dish. Add salt, 
pepper, vinegar, water and flour. Cover and bake until okra is done 


thoroughly. 
a MILDRED COFFIELD (Mrs. H. I.) 


RSE aT: A 163 


THE QUAKER Cook BOOK 





ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


164 





ft CL. 


, Wee 


POEK SD => 
“Mwe ow GD 





Caves) 


Quantity 


FRUIT PUNCH 


2 cups sugar Juice of 6 oranges 

1 cup water 1 can grated pineapple 

1 cup strong tea 1 quart ginger ale 

1 pint strawberry syrup © ¥2 pint Maraschino cherries 


Juice of 6 lemons 


Make syrup by boiling water and sugar ten minutes. Add tea, fruit 
juices, pineapple and strawberry syrup. Let stand 30 minutes. Strain, add 
enough ice water to make 11% gallons of liquid. Turn into large punch 
bowl over a piece of ice, then add cherries and ginger ale. This makes 


nearly two gallons. 
AGNES Parsons (Mrs. D. H.) 


TEN GALLON FRUIT PUNCH 


4 ounces tea (48 tea bags) 3 large cans pineapple juice 
114 gallons boiling water 1% quarts grape juice 

5 pounds sugar 1% gallons water 

4 large cans orange juice 10 bottles ginger ale 


2 bottles lemon juice 


Make tea with boiling water. Strain, add sugar, fruit juices and water. 
Add coloring to make desired color. (If you use grape juice, no other 
color will take.) Add ginger ale just before serving and serve cold. 


Yield: 10 gallons. 
BERA BROWN AUSTIN (Mrs. Kenneth) 





165 





THE QUAKER CooK Book 


PUNCH FOR A LARGE COMPANY 
Make syrup by boiling 4 cups water and 8 cups sugar. 


4 cups tea infusion Juice of 15 lemons 

3 cups canned dewberries, Juice of 15 oranges 
loganberries, pineapple, or Enough water to make 414 
red cherries gallons 


ALICE PAIGE WHITE (Mrs. H. A.) 


PUNCH FOR 100 


4 ounces citric acid 1 can frozen orange juice 
¥% gallon boiling water 14 cups water 
2 No. 5 cans pineapple juice 14 cups sugar 


Boil water and sugar 5 minutes for syrup. Dissolve citric acid in % 
gallon of boiling water in porcelain container at least 12 hours before 
using. Add other ingredients and serve ice cold. May be tinted if desired. 
Citric acid may be obtained at the drug store. This makes a very 
delicious, inexpensive punch to serve for large groups. 


Mrs. W. G. McFARLAND 


THE FOLLOWING RECIPES ARE DESIGNED FOR 
GROUPS OF 50 PEOPLE 


GINGERBREAD 
6 cups molasses 6 teaspoons soda 
3 cups boiling water 6 teaspoons ginger 
344 quarts flour 3 teaspoons cinnamon 
142 cups melted shortening 3 teaspoons salt 


Add water to molasses. Mix and sift dry ingredients. Combine mixtures, 
add shortening and beat vigorously. Bake in 350° oven 30-40 minutes 
or until done. Serve hot or cold with lemon sauce. 


GOLDEN GLOW SALAD 


3 cups grated raw carrot 3 cups cold water 
3 cups crushed pineapple 1% cups sugar 
3 cups pineapple juice 6 tablespoons gelatin 


Soak gelatin in cold water. Heat pineapple juice to boiling point. Pour 
over gelatin. When dissolved, add sugar, pineapple and carrot. Chill. 
Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 





166 





QUANTITY 


LEMON SAUCE 


1 quart sugar %4 cup butter 

2 quarts boiling water ¥2 cup lemon juice 

2 cup cornstartch or %4 cup Grated rind of 3 lemons 
flour 2 teaspoons salt 


Mix sugar and cornstarch thoroughly. Add water, stirring constantly 
until smooth and thickened. Boil five minutes, remove from fire and 
add butter and flavorings. 


BARBEQUE SAUCE 


1 pound onions 3 bottles catsup 

1 cup lard (part bacon fat 1 bottle Worcestershire 
may be used) sauce 

1 cup vinegar 1 cup prepared mustard 

42 cup brown sugar 1 pound celery chopped 

1% cups lemon juice 3 pints water 


Brown chopped onion in fat. Add all ingredients and cook slowly for 
14 hour. This is a delicious sauce for meat balls or frankfurters. Brown 
meat balls or prick skin of frankfurters and add to sauce. Cover and 
cook slowly for 20 to 30 minutes. 


MEAT LOAF 
12 pounds ground beef 1 pound chopped onions 
1 pound ground fat salt pork 1 teaspoon pepper 
6 cups dry bread crumbs 1 tablespoon oregano 
3 cups water, stock or milk 1 teaspoon dry mustard 
8 eggs well beaten 1 large bottle catsup 


3 tablespoons salt 
Mix first three ingredients thoroughly. Combine other ingredients and 
add to meat. Mix well. Shape into loaves and bake two hours at 325°. 
Baste occasionally. Meat may be made into individual patties, fried 
and served in buns or with barbecue sauce. 





167 





THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 


DELICIOUS QUICK ROLLS 
(150 Rolls) 


3 eggs 

3 tablespoons sugar 

1 tablespoon salt 

1 pint lukewarm water 


4 cakes yeast 
2 quarts milk 
1 cup shortening 
4 quarts flour 


Put yeast in warm water. Whip with fork until frothy. Add well beaten 
eggs, sugar, salt, milk, shortening and flour. Knead, roll out and cut into 
desired shape. Allow to rise until double in bulk. Bake in 450° oven 
until brown. 


CORN BREAD 
2% cups lard or bacon 15 eggs 
drippings 1 quart milk 
1144 cups sugar 8 cups flour 


4 cups corn meal 
3 teaspoons salt 


12 heaping teaspoons baking 
powder 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add eggs and salt. Beat well and add milk, 
flour, baking powder and corn meal. Beat well. Bake in hot oven, 
375°-400° about 25 minutes or until brown. 


CABBAGE, PINEAPPLE AND PIMENTO SALAD 


6 pounds cabbage 
2 No. 242 cans crushed pine- 


apple 


Shred cabbage. Drain pineapple and mix all ingredients thoroughly. 
Serve with French Dressing. 


2 7-ounce cans chopped 
pimento 


FRENCH DRESSING 


1% tablespoons salt 
1 teaspoon mustard 
1 teaspoon paprika 

Y teaspoon pepper 


1 cup vinegar 
2 cups olive oil 
2 tablespoons sugar 


Rub bottom of bowl with cut garlic or onion. Put all ingredients into 
bowl and beat vigorously with egg beater. Serve at once. 





168 


QUANTITY 








HOLIDAY SALAD 


8 ounces lemon gelatin 4 cups boiling water 

Y2 cup vinegar 4 cups fruit juice 

4 cups apples chopped fine 4 cups seeded grapes 
4 cups raw cranberries ground 2 cups nuts chopped 
4 cups sugar 1 teaspoon salt 


Combine cranberries, apples and sugar. Let stand while preparing 
gelatin. Dissolve gelatin in hot water and add cold juice, vinegar and 
salt. When partly set, stir in fruits and nuts. 


LEMON DELICACY 


20 eggs 144 cups flour 
10 cups milk 9 lemons, juice and grated 
1% cups butter rind 


7 cups sugar 


Cream butter and sugar. Add egg yolks, cream well and add flour, 
lemon juice and grated rind. Add milk and fold in beaten egg whites. Put 
in shallow pan and place in pan of hot water. Bake in moderate oven 
(350°) for 45 minutes. A delicate crust forms on top and the pudding 
will form its own sauce. 


WHITE SAUCE 
1 cup butter 2 quarts scalded milk 
1 cup flour 2 teaspoons salt 


Heat milk in double boiler. Melt butter in large saucepan, add flour, 
stir until smooth and remove from fire. Add hot milk, stirring constantly 
until smooth. Return to double boiler and stir until thickened, then 
cook 20 minutes stirring occasionally. This sauce may be used for 
scalloped dishes or as the base for creamed meat dishes as follows: 


CREAMED DRIED BEEF 


2 pounds dried beef 4 quarts white sauce (double 
14 cup onion grated fine above recipe but omit salt) 
Y pound margarine 12 teaspoon black pepper 


Shred dried beef. Heat fat in large pan, add shredded beef and cook, 
stirring constantly until crisp. Add grated onions, black pepper and 
white sauce. Serve on mashed potatoes or toast. 





169 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





CREAMED SALMON 


10 1 pound cans salmon 14 cup chopped parsley 
1 cup onions grated 1 small jar pimento © 
10 hard boiled eggs 4 quarts white sauce 


Drain salmon, remove skin and bones and break into small pieces. Chop 
hard boiled eggs and pimentos. Cook onions in 44 cup margarine until 
clear. Add all ingredients to white sauce and heat thoroughly. Serve 
on boiled rice or in pattie shell. May also be mixed with cooked 
noodles and baked in buttered pan. 


HAM LOAF 
8 pounds smoked ham, ground 8 eggs 
2 pounds fresh pork, ground ¥4 cup brown sugar 
2 quarts bread crumbs 2 quarts milk 
12 teaspoon pepper Y2 teaspoon mustard 


Beat eggs slightly and add milk. Mix thgroughly with other ingredients. 
Form into two pound loaves and bake in 350° oven for about 1 hour. 


BAKED HAMBURGER AND MACARONI 


8 pounds ground beef 2 No. 10 cans tomatoes 
2 pounds chopped onions  ~ 242 pounds elbow macaroni 
2 quarts chopped celery 2 cups buttered bread crumbs 


Boil macaroni in salted water until tender. Sear meat, onions and celery 
in small amount of fat. Add to drained macaroni. Add tomatoes. Season 
to taste with salt, pepper and sugar. Fill greased baking pans, sprinkle 
with buttered crumbs, and bake in 400° oven for 45 minutes. 


CORN PUDDING 


6 No. 2 cans corn 12 eggs, beaten slightly 

6 tablespoons sugar 3 quarts stale bread crumbs 
2 tablespoons salt Y cup butter 

3 quarts milk 1 teaspoon pepper 


Tear day-old bread into small pieces. Mix all ingredients thoroughly 
and pour into six buttered baking dishes. Bake in slow oven (300°) 
30-40 minutes or until firm. 





170 


QUANTITY 








MENU 
Chicken Salad 
Cottage Cheese on Peach Potato Chips 
Pickles — Olives 
Hot Rolls Butter Iced Tea 
Ice Cream Pie 
| Shopping List — 50 

Hens 20 pounds 
Mayonnaise 14% quarts 
Onions 1 pounds 
India Relish 8 ounces 
Celery 2 stalks 
Eggs 2 dozen 
Pimento 4 ounces 
Cottage Cheese 5 pounds 
Pecans 2 cups 
Lettuce 6 heads 
Peaches 50 halves 
Potato Chips 2 pounds 
Pickles 3 quarts 
Olives 1 quart 
Rolls 10 dozen 
Butter 142 pounds 
Sugar 3 pounds 
Tea 3 ounces 
Pineapple Juice 1 large can 
Lemonade (frozen) 2 large cans 
Ice Cream Pies 9 


Chicken Salad 


20 pounds of hen 

1 quart mayonnaise 

1% cup vinegar 

¥4 cup evaporated milk 
2 whole stalks celery 

8 ounces India relish 


12 ounces stuffed olives 
4 ounces pimento 

1 pound onions 

1 teaspoon celery seed 
Y4 cup sugar 

1 dozen hard-boiled eggs 


Simmer chickens until very tender. Remove from broth and cool. Free 
meat from bones and skin and chop fine. Pour two cups of broth 


LA 


THE QUAKER CooK Book 





(without fat) over chopped chicken and allow to stand. Chop celery, 
Olives, eggs, pimento. Add to chicken and mix well with dressing used 
in Cole Slaw recipe on page 177. 


Cottage Cheese and Peach Salad 
6 heads lettuce 2 cups chopped pecans 
5 pounds cottage cheese 1 pint mayonnaise 
50 peach halves 


Mash lumps from cottage cheese and add chopped nuts, mayonnaise 
and enough liquid from canned peaches to soften mixture. Arrange a 
peach half, cut side up, on lettuce and top with a generous tablespoon 
of the cheese mixture. 
Iced Tea 

3 ounces tea 2 large cans frozen lemonade 

1 No. 5 can pineapple juice Sugar to taste 

1 gallon boiling water 


Steep tea in boiling water 10 minutes. Remove leaves, add 3 cups 
sugar. Add juice, lemonade, and water to make 3 gallons. Sweeten to 
taste. 


MENU 
Baked Ham 
Macaroni and Cheese Harvard Beets 
Green Peas 
French Bread Coffee 


Fruit Cup and Cookies 


Shopping List — 50 


Ready-To-Eat Canned Ham 15 pounds 
Macaroni 4 pounds 
Ciicese 4 pounds 
Evaporated Milk 4 large cans 
Flour 1 pound 
Beets 2 No. 10 cans 


ee ce 
Ny pe 


QUANTITY 





Brown Sugar 1 pound 
Orange Marmalade 8 ounces 
Vinegar 1 quart 
Cornstarch 6 tablespoons 
Spices (cinnamon, cloves, allspice) 1 teaspoon each 
Frozen Peas 14 packages 
Coffee 2 pounds 
Cream 1 quart, 1 pint half & half 
Sugar 3 pounds 
French Bread 11 loaves 
Margarine 4 pounds 
Pineapple 2 No. 2% cans 
Fruit Cocktail 3 No. 2% cans 
Pears 2 No. 2% cans 
Grapefruit 2 No. 2 cans 
Homemade Cookies 150 


Follow instructions on can for baking ham. 


Macaroni and Cheese 


4 pounds macaroni 4 large cans evaporated milk 
1 pound margarine 2 cups flour 
4 pounds grated cheese Salt, pepper, paprika 


Drop macaroni into boiling, salted water and boil until tender, about 
30 minutes. When done, drain and rinse with hot water. Make white 
sauce of margarine, flour and milk. Season to taste and add all but 
2 cups of grated cheese. Allow cheese to melt, stirring constantly. Add 
drained macaroni, blend well, and pour into greased baking pans. 
Sprinkle remaining cheese and paprika over top. Brown in oven. 


Harvard Beets 


2 No. 10 cans beets 1 quart vinegar 

1 pound brown sugar 6 tablespoons cornstarch 

1 quart liquid from beets 14 pound margarine 

1 teaspoon each cinnamon, Y teaspoon pepper 
allspice, cloves 2 teaspoons salt 


Drain and slice beets. Save 1 quart liquid. Boil vinegar, brown sugar, 
beet liquid, seasonings, margarine for 10 minutes. Pour over drained 
beets and let stand 2 to 3 hours. Drain spiced liquid from beets, heat 
and thicken with cornstarch dissolved in 1 cup cold water. Cook until 


173 


THE QUAKER CooK Book 








mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Add marmalade and pour sauce 
over beets. 


Peas 


Prepare frozen peas according to instructions on package. Season with 
12 pound margarine, salt and pepper to taste. 


French Bread 


Slice bread and brush with melted margarine. Heat uncovered in oven 
about 15 minutes or until crusty. 


Fruit Cup 


Empty canned fruit into large pan. Cut Ste pieces. Serve in dessert 
dishes with cookies on the side. 


Roast Turkey 


Dressing Cranberry Jelly Gravy 
Rice Cole Slaw Green Beans 
Rolls Butter 
Apple Pie Coffee 


Shopping List — 50 


Turkey 30 pounds 
Cranberry Jelly 3 cans 
Cabbage 9 pounds 
Celery 3 bunches 
Onions 3 pounds 
Margarine 3 pounds 
Evaporated Milk 2 large cans 
Mayonnaise 1 quart 


174k One eae he eo Sar Sea REE See 





QUANTITY 





Rice | 4 pounds 
Green Beans 10 No. 3 cans 
Rolls 10 dozen 
Coffee 2 pounds 
Milk 1 quart, 1 pint half & half 
Sugar 3 pounds 
Day-old Bread 6 loaves 
Pan of Baked Cornbread 

Eggs 6 


Salt, Pepper, Celery Seed 


Have individuals to roast turkeys and make gravy in their own homes. 


Dressing 
6 loaves day-old bread 1 quart broth (may be made 
1 pan cornbread with chicken boullion cubes) 
2 bunches celery, chopped fine 42 pound melted margarine 
2 pounds onions, chopped fine (may use bacon drippings 
6 eggs partially) 


1% cups milk 


Crumble bread. Add celery and onions and moisten with broth and 
melted fat. Allow to stand 15 minutes. Beat eggs, add milk, salt, pepper 
to taste, and stir into bread mixture. Add extra broth if required to 
moisten thoroughly. Spread 34 inch thick in greased pan. Bake 35-40 
minutes. Cut in squares to serve. 


Rice 
Soak in cold water for an hour or longer. Drain, cover with fresh water, 
add salt and bring to boil and cook until tender. Allow about an hour 
for cooking. When rice is done, drain into colander and rinse with hot 
water. 


Green Beans 


Drain liquid from canned green beans into large vessel. Season with 

salt, pepper and ¥2 pound margarine. Allow to boil down until about % 

liquid remains. Pour beans into concentrated liquid and heat thoroughly. 
(For Cole Slaw see menu with Country Style Steak) 


Lis 





THE QUAKER CooK BOooK 


ee ee nS a ST SS TST 


MENU 
Country Style Steak 
Mashed Potatoes Buttered Carrots 
Cole Slaw 
Rolls Coffee 


Peaches — Cup Cake 


Shopping List — 50 


Steak 50 servings, plus number serving meal 
Potatoes | 18 pounds 
Carrots 1 medium carrot per serving 
Cabbage 9 pounds 
Celery 1 bunch 
Onions 1 pound 
Mayonnaise 1 quart 
Evaporated Milk 3 cans 
Rolls 10 dozen 
Coffee 2 pounds 
Milk 1 quart, 1 pint half & half 
Sugar 3 pounds 
Flour 2 pounds 
Margarine 3 pounds 
Steak 


Season 2 pounds flour with 1% cup salt, 2 teaspoons pepper. Roll steaks 
in flour and brown in hot fat on both sides. Line a roasting pan with 
aluminum foil, place rack in bottom, and transfer browned steaks to 
roaster. Fold aluminum foil over steaks, put top on roaster, and bake 
in slow oven for one hour. Make gravy from fat in which steaks were 
browned. 


Brown Gravy 
144 cups drippings 3 quarts water 
1% cups flour Salt and pepper to taste 


Pour off clear fat allowing brown extractives to remain in the pan. 
Return measured fat to pan. Add flour and stir until smooth. Add water 


176 


QUANTITY 





and stir constantly until thickened. Boil five minutes. If too thick, add 
extra water. The gravy should be a rich brown color; but, if it is not, 
add Kitchen Bouquet as needed. Season to taste. 


Mashed Potatoes 


Scrub 18 pounds medium-sized potatoes and boil in jackets until tender. 
Skin potatoes, mash, add 3 tablespoons salt and beat until there are no 
lumps. Heat 7 cups (21% large cans) milk and 1 cup margarine and 
add gradually, beating until potatoes are light and fluffy. (If potatoes 
are peeled before cooking, use potato water to dilute evaporated milk). 


Buttered Carrots 


Scrub carrots and scrape. Cut in % lengthwise and boil in salted water 
until tender. Drain and add %4 pound of margarine, salt and pepper to 
taste and add a little chopped parsley. Heat thoroughly. 


Cole Slaw 


Grate 9 pounds cabbage on medium grater and stir in 4 teaspoons salt. 
Add 1 bunch celery, chopped and sufficient dressing to moisten. Let 
stand, stirring occasionally, for an hour before serving. 


Dressing for Cole Slaw 


1 quart mayonnaise ] teaspoon celery seed 
1 pound onions grated very 2 teaspoons salt 

fine Y cup vinegar 
14 cup sugar ¥4 cup evaporated milk 


1 teaspoon black pepper 


Put mayonnaise, onions, sugar, pepper, salt, celery seed into bowl. Pour 
vinegar and milk into jar and shake well, then add to other ingredients. 
Blend thoroughly and allow to stand 30 minutes. Equally good for 
potato or chicken salad. 


CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 


25 pounds sweet potatoes 1 pound margarine 
1 quart dark Karo syrup I No. 2 can crushed pineapple 


Peel cooked potatoes and cut in serving pieces. Heat Karo, margarine 
and crushed pineapple. Arrange sweet potatoes in buttered baking dishes 
and spoon the syrup over. Sprinkle with cinnamon and bake at 375° 
until lightly browned. Baste with syrup occasionally. 





1Gyee) 


THE QUAKER CooK Book 





ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


eet ge tie 
178 


Miscellaneous 


CORN SOUP 
2 cups grated corn 1 tablespoon chopped onion 
2 cups water 2 teaspoons salt 
4 cups milk 4 teaspoon white pepper 
Y4 cup butter 2 egg yolks 


% cup flour 


Cook the corn with the cold water twenty minutes; cook onion in melted 
butter until light brown, add flour, seasoning and milk gradually, then 
add the corn. Strain and reheat. Beat yolks of eggs and pour soup 
slowly over them, mix well and serve immediately. This is a very 
good soup without the eggs. 

RACHEL TAYLOR (Mrs. F. R.) 


NEW ENGLAND FISH CHOWDER (Hearty Soup) 


1 can fish flakes Y% teaspoon pepper 

3 cups thin sliced potatoes 1 tablespoon flour 

1 medium sized onion, sliced 3 tablespoons butter 

14% inch cube fat salt 4 cups milk or large can 
pork, cut in small cubes evaporated milk 

1 teaspoon salt Y2 box Uneeda biscuits 


Boil potatoes in water to cover, meanwhile dry out pork and skim out 
lightly browned cubes to drain on paper towel, lightly brown onion in 
fat, skim out and add to potatoes and fish, simmering. Add 14 cup 
of water gradually to flour, creaming free of lumps, stir into pan making 
smooth gravy, then pour this back slowly into kettle of potatoes, onion 
and fish. Simmer and add can of milk, stirring gradually. Divide butter 
evenly in soup bowls with crumbled crackers, then pour soup over 
butter and crackers. 


If any left over serve later, add milk and salt. 
Clams, lobster, haddock, etc. may be used for chowder. 


ALICE PAIGE WHITE 


RUSSIAN TEA 


Boil 112 cups sugar in 5 cups water with rind of 2 oranges and 1 lemon. 
Strain. When cool, add juice of 6 oranges and 2 lemons. When ready to 
serve, add 8 cups of good tea (fairly strong). Put 2 cloves in each cup. 
Serve hot. Serves about 20 medium-sized cups. 


FLORINE OLIVE (from my mother, Mr. R. B. Ledford) 


172 


THE QUAKER Cook Book 








PEANUT BUTTER SOUP 


2 cups scalded milk 14 teaspoon pepper 
1 tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons peanut butter 
1 tablespoon butter , A suspicion of onion 


1 teaspoon salt 


Add peanut butter to hot milk and rub well so as to mix. thoroughly. 
Add butter and seasonings, then thicken with flour made into a smooth 
paste with cold water. ei | pits Maes 

, ALICE PAIGE WHITE 


BUMSTEAD SANDWICH 
1 slice cheese on slice bread 1 slice tomato to cover cheese 


Top the tomato with large, thin slice onion. Cut 1 strip bacon in half 
and place on top. Put under low speed broiler and broil until bacon 
curls. Add top slice of bread and brown slightly. A delicious Sunday 
night snack. 


LALA JOHNSON 


PIMENTO SANDWICHES 


1 pound cheese 1 teaspoon mustard 
1 can pimento peppers | 1 teaspoon salt 
Y2 cup vinegar 2 eggs 


Boil vinegar, then pour beaten eggs, mustard and salt in and let it 
thicken. Pour this over the cheese and pimento peppers which have 
been ground. Mix well and spread. 


ARTA BARKER (Mrs. June) 


GRAPE JUICE 
1 cup ripe grapes - 1 cup sugar 


Put in quart jar. Fill with boiling water and seal quickly. This seems 


so simple some people think it a fake, but I have tried it out and it is 
very fine. 


AGNES Parsons (Mrs. D. Hy) 


CL EE nares seeps oeneeeennensnn ns euneeeeneneces 
180 





MISCELLANEOUS 


SUNDAY NIGHT SANDWICHES 


Spread buttered slices of bread (or hamburger buns) with canned baked 
beans which have been mixed with: 


1 teaspoon mustard 2 tablespoons brown sugar 
2 tablespoons catsup 


Top with onion slice, then with cheese. Top with bacon strips. Broil 
until bacon is crisp and cheese melts. 


SUE S. PARKER (Mrs. Allen) 


CRANBERRY JUICE COCKTAIL 


| quart cranberries Y2 to % cup sugar 
1 quart water Juice of 1 lemon 
3 whole cloves 


Boil cranberries until very soft. Strain as for jelly, then add sugar, cloves 
and lemon juice. Boil 5 minutes. May be served hot or cold. 


ICED TEA 


1 cup tea leaves 1 dozen lemons 
3 pounds sugar 1 gallon boiling water 


Squeeze juice from lemons. Put tea leaves and lemon rinds in vessel. 
Pour boiling water over them and let stand fifteen minutes. Strain and 
add lemon juice and sugar while hot. Serve in tea glasses filled with 
crushed ice. 

Mrs. H. A. MILLIs 


SUNSET LEMONADE 


1¥2 cups sugar 1 quart water 
2 oranges (juice and grated 4 lemons (juice) 
rind) 


Boil five minutes and set aside to cool. Serve with cracked ice. 


MILDRED COFFIELD (Mrs. H. I.) 


181 





THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 


RUSSIAN TEA 


1 cup sugar 1 lemon 
1 tablespoon tea 1 orange 
1 teaspoon cloves (crushed) 142 quarts water 


Tie tea and cloves in cloth bag and put in water with sugar. Let come 
to boiling point. Take away from flame and put in lemon and orange 
juice. Vary with other juices as desired. 


BERTHA C. SHEETZ 


HOT SPICED TEA 


1 teaspoon tea Juice of 2 oranges 
2 quarts water | teaspoon whole cloves 
1 cup sugar 1 stick whole cinnamon 


Juice of 1 lemon 


Steep tea in 1 quart of water for 20 minutes. Add sugar, fruit juices and 
spices followed by remaining quart of water. Bring to boiling point 
and serve hot. 

MELITA HANING (Mrs. Ted) 


GRAPE JUICE PUNCH 


2 quarts grape juice ¥Y2 cup lemon juice 
1 6 ounce can frozen orange 1 6 ounce can frozen pine- 
juice (1% pints) apple juice (11% pints) 


Mix juices and sweeten to taste. 
VERA F. BARKER (Mrs. Luther) 


To Remove Ink From Any Fabric 
(Will Not Injure Fabric) 


Place ink stained portion in a basin. Sprinkle over it thick layer of 
powdered borax. Pour peroxide on until well soaked. Let stand three 
hours. Wash out in cool water and then with warm suds. 


Miss EMMA BLAIR 


182 





MISCELLANEOUS 


GLUE 


Very desirable for use of primary teachers and any who have to use 
much glue. | | 


3 cups flour , 1 teaspoon 10% solution of 
~. 3 cups cold water. carbolic acid 

3 cups hot water 7 2 drops oil of wintergreen 

1 tablespoon powdered alum 14 teaspoon salicylic acid 


Sift dry ingredients together, mix thoroughly with the cold water and 
add the hot water. Cook until well thickened and after removing from 
fire add carbolic acid and wintergreen. Seal in jelly glasses. 


Mrs. Luna Cox RAy 


183 


THE QUAKER COOK BOooK 





HELPFUL HINTS IN COOKING 


Onion juice—To extract, press raw surface of onion against grater, move 
it slightly and juice will run off point of grater. 


When adding cornstarch, arrowroot or any starchy materials to hot 
liquid, first mix with enough cold water or milk to make it fluid, then 
add slowly and stir constantly until smooth. 


When making anything that calls for cornstarch and sugar, mix 
thoroughly dry sugar and starch to prevent lumping. This applies to 
cocoa or any powder that contains starch. The sugar separates the 
starch grains. 


A dash of salt in whites of eggs makes them whip better. A very little 
cold water has a similar effect. 


Add a tablespoon of cold water to egg when used in crumbing 
croquettes, etc. It prevents stringiness and makes egg go further. 


When baking very juicy pies, sift over bottom crust fine stale bread 
crumbs before putting in the fruit. This will insure crisp lower crust 
while crumbs can neither be seen nor tasted. 


Salt or vinegar in the water will help to keep poached eggs from floating 
to pieces. 


Pumpkin—Instead of paring while raw, cut in convenient size pieces 
and steam or bake with shell on. When soft, pulp can be easily scraped 
from the shell. 


Silver spoons tarnished by egg may be cleaned with damp salt. 


Spots and discolorations on aluminum pans may be removed by using 
a solution of two tablespoons cream of tartar dissolved in one quart of 
water. This solution may be stored in a jar and used as needed. 


To remove wax from a tablecloth, scrape off hardened wax, place a 
blotter under the cloth, and press with a warm iron. 


To clean grease from linoleum, dust baking soda and wash up with very 
hot water. 


Store crackers and cereals in cabinet above the refrigerator. The heat 
from the operation of the motor will keep them dry. 


A bit of sugar in batter of pancakes or waffles will make them brown 
more quickly. 





184 


HELPFUL HINTS IN COOKING 





Sugar may be softened by placing in warm oven for 10 or 15 minutes. 


Sprinkle salt in frying pan before frying meat to preyent fat from 
splashing. , 


To keep macaroni or rice from boiling over, put a tablespoon of butter 
in the water. 


For delicious baked ham, put ham in paper bag, twist end and place 
in biscuit pan. Remove bag %2 hour before ham is done, skin, decorate, 
and brown. 


To clear bacon grease for later use, pour warm, not hot, grease into a 
can of cold water. Burnt portion will drop to bottom of can. 


To flour chicken for frying, shake in paper bag with seasoned flour. 
Cookies may be covered with confectioners’ sugar in the same way. 


Put a clove of garlic in a bottle of bought French dressing to improve 
the flavor. A clove of garlic in a bottle of olives makes an interesting 
flavor change. 


To melt chocolate, grease pot in which it is to be melted and place over 
boiling water. Grease the cup in which molasses is to be measured to 
make it pour more freely. 


AVERAGE CAN SIZE 
Om a—aeiea, CUPS 
No. 2 = 214 cups 
cy? 1372 Cups 
No. 3 = 4 cups 
Pee 15) Cups 


OVEN TEMPERATURES FOR BAKING 


Degrees Fahrenheit 
DIOW FOVCI were mamaria dnt wim atid Ue oe tr oe 250-350 
MIGCETALCROVETI ote gay eee het eats Jee ee ee ee 350-400 
(OTICK OL ADO LSOVC Der eameere eee ee a ot te 400-450 
Were NOt Oven, te SASS Ash reat iby a Danae 450-550 


185 





THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 


ee 


TABLE OF STANDARD MEASUREMENTS AND EQUIVALENTS 


Dash or few grains = less than ¥% teaspoon 
60 drops = 1 teaspoon 

3 teaspoons = 1 tablespoon = 42 ounce 

2 tablespoons = ¥e cup = 6 teaspoons 

4 tablespoons = % cup 

5 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon = % cup 

8 tablespoons = 12 cup = 1 gill 

10 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons = % cup 
12 tablespoons = %4 cup 

16 tablespoons = 1 cup = % pint 


2 cups = 1 pint = 4 gills 

4 cups = 2 pints = 1 quart 

4 quarts = 1 gallon = 16 cups = 8 pints 
8 quarts = 1 peck 

4 peck = 1 bushel 

16 ounces = 1 pound 


Water: 1 cup = % pound = % pint = 16 tablespoons 
Sugar: 1 cup (granulated) = 4% pound = 16 tablespoons 
Sugar 242 cups (brown) = 1 pound 

Sugar: 312 cups (confectioners’) = 1 pound 

Rice: (uncooked) 1 cup = %2 pound 

Milk: 1 cup = 1% pound = % pint = 16 tablespoons 
Flour: (sifted) 442 cups = 1 pound 

Butter: 2 cups = 1 pound = 32 tablespoons = 4 sticks 
Butter: 1 stick ¥% ¥%2 cup = 8 tablespoons 

Bread crumbs: 1 cup = 214 ounces = 5 tablespoons 
Coffee: 1 pound = 40 cups 

Eggs: (whole) 5 = 1 cup 


12 quarts makes 96 glasses 

1 gallon of punch serves 20 

A 12 pound ham serves 20 

To serve cold sliced turkey or chicken to 25 persons, allow 20 pounds 
of poultry. 

A 5 pound hen makes 4 cups of diced chicken. 

1 gallon of ice cream will serve 25 people if served with a scoop. 

An 11 inch casserole of scalloped potatoes will serve 8 generously. 


186 





ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


187 





THE QUAKER COOK BooK 


ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


ADDITIONAL RECIPES 








ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


189 





THE QUAKER CooK BOOK 


ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


190 


ADDITIONAL RECIPES 








ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


191 





192. 


THE QUAKER Cook BOOK 


ADDITIONAL RECIPES 


Index 


All (*) recipes are from the first Quaker Cook Book published in 1926. 





BEVERAGES Relic ms 
Butter reese oy Le cS 
Cranberry Juice Cocktail 181 LSA EVNANE, Cx aeca tas (Ek en cer lade at 11 
EeGrapC Cen oe 180 QUICK ears cee ee ae oe 1) 
PUNCH Whole, Wheate 24s eee 12 
*For A Large Company os hes 166 INetligeratOrne ee ceria i 
Seiten ee Oe Fee oe OY 165 SUPT CTY) Cigeee settee ee eee Se ee es 15 
Grane vice it ed TS 2p CORE Vie thee 10 
Pcie Otel Osc 2 st fee 167 SPoOOMeul cage see ee ee eh 
ene alon Punch 2-2) 165 IW aincSamernc cia ee ee see WP 
BounsetsLemonade 181 Buttermilkece ee ee ee 9 
TEA CISD Pee ee eee 14 
PU DICC UG er eee ete eee 182 
eset OE es ee ae 181 
etissie times ets 17957 182 CAKES 
PAPDIOeSaAUCCs 5 eee ee .. 15-16 
DOUICDeA DDI ee ee 20 
BREAD BInck Derr ye eet ee eee ee LO 
anaes 14 (GenU Va Stic ng ee eee een ees 19 
iy atereproadwe: oe 9 GEESE Fee ee ee 17-18 
BISCUITS CROCOLALC yee re eee 16-18 
Bamuperowder 2 3 COCONUT 
[uit tole ney ra 8 VCR LAY Cl geen ee eee en 19 
(CNSSSS 2 a 4 Pres Prosted G..ea tens ee wens 23 
cca pose ee 4 DevilssrOodgee ee ere ears Di 
Browoebrecdm. 5 Eritite Cak Cpe ee ee eras 22-26 
CoRN BREAD Das eee eee ec ce Beer by 
DDixiesGorn Bread 7 LCOS BOXveor pees e wie ae 2K 
*Golden Corn Cake | 6 JaOAnGSCpe eee ee) 
PASHBEUDDICS 20 6 CTA OC ween re eee es a) 
* Muffins Stéamedigece: ya ee ee 22 
SHeKS gee en! ae 8 White pin eee ates eet 24-28 
PUI OSes eee ce ren ns oe ae 5 ud cee Oil LO eee eee ee 24 
LOAF BREAD Gingemeb read Wr 23 
NATCHN Ue ee ee eee 4 Graname Crick Chases ram 28 
CUCL AMIN Ut eet cel ae 3 ELON GC Vinee mee krane eee On reese ne 20 
CiraperNUlSgea oe er es 13 HOPE ew ara oe ee eel 30 
SIN UT tee ee ee Uh oan oe 14 Jellvah Olltorere re eee es 20-*23 
SalleRising ie see btet een) 5 faye 1 &, cnn SiMe ape. SEeaL a aed ns ances anion 25 
SOL MCILAD AI pases Mi tere nes 13 IMI OlaSSeSweee ee eee 26 
MUFFINS SIMOPAVI Al OU Salar ee ee 26 
EG@OrneMeale . aes) ee 8 INTER OL eee eee ee ee ee 21-*30 
SCS Teil Ti) Meee tise ee ee ee i, Guim eNUtanGdtD ates siete 28 
GATING A libre eg eee eae 9 PATEVie LD ACTIN Uti eee ee 29 
LAL pees ob ee eee ae are ee 6 bee 4a avery ere eee ere ete » 25 
PaNCUKCS Mae pote 2 2 a Eee 10 Orange sD Teal geet eee 27 
WenolewW heatwe eee oe 8 10 ROUNC are ees eerie 30 
IRODOV CES tere es cle teak eee 10 SPL alte POUn Gare ae ee ee 31 
193 





Prune @ ee he ee Sede 31 
SDOTIGG Be rae We eae *32-33 
Strawberry ice: BOxXee 32 
PSUTSHiTie Ween fee ae ere az 
‘otiatc DOUpaC ake meee 34 
CD Uitte=Pritiit eee eee 29 
eWiite. (cake ao tes 33-34 
Mamie’s White Cake _____.._... 35 
CANDIES 
Candied Grapefruit Peel _...______. 42 
Candied ‘Orange Peel 2.0 2 39 
area a(cand Vivre ee ee ees 40 
Dates LOar cals ee See eee 43 
FUDGE 
Buttermilk se eee eee 40 
Chocolates. eo ena) 
Creamy Chocolate, = 41 
Divinity? 24.4 eee ee 41 
Holidayi2 eee eee 42 
Peanut butterise wernae, 
SUpCiy coe eee ee _ 43 
MUS IACOWINULS eee ae ee ee 43 
PEANUT 
Brittle soe eee eee 44 
© OAT Vie fae eee 44 
Butters Dwitisi. ee eee 40 
Spcaloain eres foe ok foe ee “i539 
SHintSwees ee ee ee ee 44 


CASSEROLES AND 
SUPPER DISHES 


CHEESE 
*RONGUG ks ee eee ees 48 
PRice Omictions 2 siete ee 50 
SOuile sits We ee ee 50 
CormeiMealtSouiiie; sae ee 47 
EGG 
* Bak edt tre een ene 47 
Savory go ee eee 48 
Supper. (ish gees eee eee 47 
MEAT 
“Baked Peppers i sea eee 54 
*Browned Hash 2) 2 48 
Brown Derby Hamburgers _.. 49 
Chickens Curry eee 55 
Huntingtons ey: 
Jambolayas ase a5 
Vewazziniie 1s eee ose 
Ring ses ee aeons 49 


Livers-Saffron Rice _.... 56 


194 


THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 





Liver-Spaghetti Sauce —... 55 
Chili te ee 
Corned Beef (Chinese Style) 64 





Corned Beef Patties _._..__.. $2 
Curry Bee mes) 
Dried (Beci 2 23 = 1 
Frankfurters (Stuffed) -..._. 50 
Goulash’ Lees eee 5 
Ham-Fried Rice —_........--.... mae yt | 
Hamburger Corn Pone Pie —.. 54 
Hamburger biey =. eee 53 
Pork Chops and Rice -....__.. a) 
Pork and Sauerkrout __....____.. ao 
Sausage and Macaroni _.. PMOL 
Spaghetti. 225 ee 56 
Sukivakite 35a ee ee no 
SEAFOOD 
Deep Sea Timbales __---_...- =kOS 
Flounder Casserole —._--. 62 
Lobster Jambalaya —-______ 60 
Mariniere for Chafing Dishes 58 
OYSTERS 
*Escalloped se ees 63 
Loatip ei eee ee aw 
Stewis2 ee ee 62 
Salmon: Loate. eee 59 
*Salmon Loaf with Peas _.... uaG! 
Seafood Casserole ___....-_. 63 
*Crabmeat Casserole -...._....__.- 60 
Shrimp Creoleie 22 ye 
Newberg, ee ee 64 
Matinated gree eae 61 
Tuna’ Casserole; = 64 
Fondté se ose 65 
Rice eee eee ne 65 
Rice-Cheese 73 ee 65 
VEGETABLE 
ADple and) LOomato. = 46 
Casserolen oa ee 45 
SCorm Pudding pe ee 45 
Kidney Bean?) 46 
Tomato Rarebit -_-......__. 46 
COOKIES 
Brown Sugar se. oe eee eee _ 67 
Brownies 2208* 42 scp or ee Gd 
Garamel Barsi# 3) ee E68 
CheeseuRings 23. ee bot 
Chocolate Nut Crunch _.........__. 68 
Coconut Dream Squares _.........__. 69 
Com?Finkets sa eee ma 


INDEX 





ppulee arse t ete eae E 70 
ater binww heels 2 69 
MCCMOC UL CS ghee Py tee BLE 70 

Bar naire (COOKIES ese ee 73 
MCRm OKs GC OOKICS cot he WZ 

“CCUENY Grae ils Re a ea 73 

feerri CeratOlens tee 70 

Weance.cup Gakes 4. 71 
PEACE OOKICS 020 3. de WSs 
Mince Meat Cookies _..__.___.__.____ 122 
Moravian Cookies 22.00. 68 
EEG NG) eae od eo 74 
Melisa oe ee ee 74 
Dpioweralisye oe a 
Pie Ve asite se ay ay 
DION ate NUty cle Ths) 
PAVE OCUOOL Vs once eee 74 

TINGE | BZ gc), 7a ee 76 

eee AK ChMm ee #0 
Vanilla Rolled Cookies _............_. 71 
Ren ate 76 
WrOlemyVilGatsne et 76 

DESSERTS 

PYIMe Osim ess 79 
EN eat (Oi J: oe 80 
CUSTARDS 

Pela ees 2 80 
Sane uocolate <2... 81 
FROZEN 
*Dewberry. Ice Cream -_.__ 85 
eGuapomce Cream = 85 
PI POtIOUMLCE (re A ene 86 
emon’ Motisse =... 86 
limes soerbetss. te. sae 86 
Macaroon-Pineapple ______.. 82 
Peach Ice; Cream. 2 86 
PeACiwrar ally eee ee 85 
The Three Good Fives -.___._._. 82 

EICAVEM Vat 1dS)\ ee en es eee a 84 

SECON NG UIC pes ete ee 94 
NEaGICHONErLY PIOGSSEr ty eee ee 84 
OO ralineLeldl lOc pe ee ee 81 
OransexGel atin wee = ee ee 84 

SGT Cas VV IL Peete ee eee ee 82 
PUDDINGS 

Bread ecer ce oe ee eee 87 
Ghocolate;Bread#2 = eee 87 
News bread 3-2. eae 87 
Corteblakes sero se pees eee 88 


Date ste a = ee eo 288-89 





Grated Sweet Potato _............ 89 
eMONPAN Rete ee ce 93 
LeeCMOln eerie ee et 89 
Maniattanis 2 eer ee Co e e 90 
*Marsnimanow sees 90 
RGLSiMminOfee eee 91, 92, 93 
Bitiinaeeee ee Be eal ee *90, 94 
AOTC TMS Ramee CR aia Metered ate ane 95 
RICO Ae an bare wit eA oh gn kee! et 93 
WVOOCLONC wean Wee eed ly 92 
Spanish; Creat ee tenes ee eee 82 


Sweet Potatoes in Orange Cups _.. 80 
TORTE 


falas) (he ee i Oe 83 
Diner ge ee ee 83 

“id Byhi (opal cecal ea Dees dae eS eel 79 

DRESSINGS 
EOE sLeSsin eee ere 149 
Prencheressin Ges a ce 149-150 
BCTOIGED BIOLESSIN G ater ee econ 152 
Lemon Cream Mayonnaise __..____- 153 
MMAVONTAISC 1 tee ae eran 8 are he 
Roquefort Cheese Dressing ___._...__.. TSI 
Seafood ates ee, ern ee 140 
POSSeG salad: Dressin gy. = seeene 153 
SULK CY .ee sey reb aati treet dG Pee Oe es. | bi2 
FILLINGS 


See "Icings” 


ICE CREAM 
See "Desserts" 


ICINGS AND FILLINGS 


BOUCURICIN Gyeens ee eee 29 
Banadae er iin oye ee ee Lee 33 
Blackawalnutenillin gas 31 
Brown stvar Pilling 2 31 
Caramel-Almond Frosting _._.... eS 
Cream Cheese Frosting —.—....__.... 37 
Ghocolatesnrostingwe. = 37 
Chocolate Fudge Frosting —_....... 539/ 
Chocolates) cin ceesnsse eee 35 
Marshmallow Icing --------------- 36 
Oranges cin pensar ey 29 
Orange, Creamspilling eee 27 
RICHER NCOOK eG sill teem eee 36 
7 Minutes hTOSUn ome. eee 36 





195 





THE QUAKER Cook Book 


een rene ED 


JELLY 
See "Pickles and Preserves" 
MEAT 
BREF 
Barbequed Hamburgers -__._--. 100 
Fancy Hamburgers -.----------- 99 
Loatg aia eta) ie eas 98-99 
*Philippine Roast -_.--------------- 98 
ROAST 
* Brown cote oe ee 98 
Rib ee ey ee an 97 
Rolled) Rib elt eee 97 
POU ae ne ee ues 97 
Rumpiysc eee 27 
*Spanish Steak _..._......_-..100 
*Brunswick Stew --........._-.--..-.. 107-108 
Canadian Bacon (Baked) —...._.. 112 
CHICKEN (See Casseroles) 

BA Lae RCI ge tein Nelo ee ce rere 99 
Barbequed —..._-__ 100-101-102 
Creamed? 22 eee ee 102 
Croguettes 2 eee 103 

SPriéd se ees 101 
Pie eh eA AME eee 103 
Pressed pt ae ere tae eee 

*Smothered 26 se eee eee 101 

HaM 
Cureayclainieeeee. es ees 104 
Crarnishtt, 222. nk er 105 
Lost ers sere ee eee 105-106 

Pie 4 see eee uted Cis Waa 107 
Ham-and Pork Loa. 103 

HSmithfield 0 ce ween von eae 106 

AT imbales ej tee ee re 105 

LAMB 
Braised Shoulder -........ 108 
Roast: Lege ee 2 eee 110 
PoRK 
Barbequed Spareribs __..__.. 108 
Chops Supreme -.............. 107 
Roaster ae es eee ey 109 
Stuffed. Chops ea 2110 
ASWeeL Bread Patties.) ee 106 
TURKEY 

S ROASty eye ee nee ee 113 
DYeSSINg ; eee 112 
etraz7ini vest eee eens 112 
On Bunny oe eee ae ees 111 

VEAL 
Breast. 220 se .109 





196 


Veal Paprikas2 2S 2 110 

Veal Supreme -_.----------------------- 111 

* Cutlets) ees se eee 111 
PASTRY 


See "Pies' 


PICKLES AND PRESERVES 


Blackberry. Jam | 122 
Canned Figs 222 es 123 
JELLY 
Apple ee 124 
Blackberry 6. ee 124 
*Cranberry) 2 124 
Mint-Apple2 = 124 
Peach-Orange Marmalade -__.------- 122 
PICKLES 
$-Day. Cucumber 118 
Beet hee ae ee eee 115 
Bread and Butter —-...-- 115-116 
Crisp Gucumbep 119 
DUAL eee 116 
English Chopped Pickle --_--. 118 
*Hasty, Cucumber 2-2 117 
Teicle ee ee ee 117 
Pesach aed 117 
Sweet Pickle Syrup --—----------- 121 
Tomato. Crisp) 116 
*Watermeloni22=.- oe 120 
PRESERVES 
Damsonn! ee 122 
Fig pe ee eee oles 122 
Strawberry 123 
RELISHES 
Artichoke Chow-Chow ......---- 119 
Chicago: Hot. ees 121 
Chow- Chow) ee 120 
Cranberry tee ee 117 
Delicious; Peppers = 121 
Pear eee ee eet eee 119 
* Pepper i eee ee eee 120 
AR hubarb Conserves = 123 
Wild Plum & Apple Marmalade 121 
PIES 
PASTRY 
Butterar eee se er eee ae) aoe 125 
Graham (Cracker#. 13 
Plain 2 Se eee 125 





INDEX 





Salada) ee eer mA rt) Se 126 
be DDG Lemons ces) ee ee 126 
woplesauce-Lemon ..0 127 
PUBUTCIIM Ketek ee 8 ee 137 
BAtPEreTSCOLCH Ores a ke 127-128 
CHESS 
Browne Sugar otk oy te 8 129 
TT eee ee CY ye alg | Ft 126 
PEC DIO tee: Pina a tee Oe a 8 130 
PV EItee SUCAi eo 128-129 
rOcOlatG. 2 * 129-131-138 
IBEOW DICE tt ee te 130 
OD ee ve ae 132 
Coconut Custard 22... 132-133 
Ppemeustardy 6 et OR 132 
Percostymerineapple i... 133 
ReeoOreAMOrOsia . eo A 134 
Grete eee 134 
DENG? He Ry Sal adele cee a ee 135 
PErECAnOOler. ene 2 eh etek 136 
premmcdemmse 26) 0) ol ure 135 
IvVignicee ical ar 130-131 
OO i Ca ho ite Ee 135 
SCRE) ot 2 ee ge re ee 136 
eee KAT he ce 137 
Besila Wechny wet 137 
ISTE 5 2 a a 136 
RELISHES 


See "Pickles" 


SALADS 
CHICKEN 
se eee eee Nee ee oe 141 
IBECSSCC meen eons ee Oey 142-143 
Cottage Cheese and Cucumber _._.150 
FRUIT 
Avacado and Lime ___.......___ 141 
IBIS DEK Yee ere 142 
Cherry seeeewar) ok ow One: 142 
Cranberry (Congealed) __. 143 
Goncedicdihruity. = 144 
Erilitesalad wee moe ee ae 149 
PLOzen COCK all yee ee ee 144 
Brozen briteeee ae es 144-146 
Chin CeiaA lew eee 145 
Harvesterseen ot eee 145 
Lemon-Pimento _— 147 
imeesalad wen eet ee es 143 
IW a1dOrige. res areata eens 147 





* Pineapple 
Pineapple-Pimento --______.....148 
SEAFOOD 


(rapmedtwe ee 139 
Gulf Coast Platter _....____. 140 
Salmon and Cottage Cheese 140 
SCID) Dees tent ee en 141 
[OnialOcASDIC# = ee ee 139 
VEGETABLE 
GAT pict at eee rhs 149 
FGombination ee 148 
SG TCA OlAW te eee 146 
Crcumberje 147 
Drew’s Mixed Vegetable ______- 150 
CHAT CCI er eae ds 151 
Golden Glow -__..--.--.-------__. 148 
Hot Cheese Potato —___.....__.__. 152 
POLAIO Ges 2 te oe 12 
Sécreterotaton 153 
SAUCES 
Barbeqiene: swe et eee 100 
Browne sauces 2 ne ee 49 
BUILLELSCOLC I eee ee re, een 94 
EC GCSe mee ee ete ee S50 


Chicken Liver (For Spaghetti) oe 
CrealnisGsustal eee ee 


bE Tad 40 Aah esos ha a SO don oi x 
THLOrseradiSi'y eo eee ee 105 
TeetiOneG Uli ee ee ee 94 
PemongSauceg ss ee eee 81 
IMUSHTOONI Eee eae ee ee 49 
Sealood pee spies trem creer 140 
Sted kee oe eee ees 113 
Sweet-Sour for Fish —_..-..-.--._. 61 
aS POCLGV are ee ee 83 
ICAL (ACA ee ey eS eee 153 
(POM LOR OGAVV ita eee 113 
(POMmalOmoauCe me. ee 99 
WhitéeSauce me camer os *45-52-112 
SANDWICHES 
Bumstesad ge eee 180 
EPIMEN(O ee ee eee 180 
Sundays Nighteee 2) eee 181 
SEAFOOD 


See "Casseroles" or "Salads" 





197 





SOUPS 
COL SOUD Fie ee ee 179 
*New England Fish Chowder -....... 179 
> PEANUT Buller OOUP le. tee 180 
VEGETABLES 
ASPARAGUS 
Baked mec cen ce ee eee 155 
EPO aT ee eae: Be ere ee 2 ere 156 
*Sibstitutesweset ee ee 156 
BEANS 
Baked sti oe vem Oh eee 157 
Boston ties we ee 155 
BEETS 
Harvard gee.) eee ee 156 
Orange paucey.. ee 157 
CABBAGE 
Creamed 222. ee. *157-158 
Cauliflower-Dundee -~_....-..2-..-_.. 159 
CORN 
CTCOLG yeas, eek ae 158 
UGOIn O geen ae ore eee ee 156 
HyrorPlantqecre see 159 
MOKi a CL DARCG Jue ere ee Be eek 163 
ONIONS 
a SE ola Mil ant uO Maray Maca Galeria ak 158 
French! Pried 2. es 161 
POTATOES 
Mashed i browlht 4. 160 
SL VOUNGISC ye en eee ae 160 
Salic teepecse ye ee ee tee ee 141 
Rhubarb sC baked ) geen eee 160 
SPINICH 
Casserole’ oes 2a eas 159 
FOUL Crores. 2 cee ee a ee eee 161 
SWEET POTATOES 
*CTeamed gcc a 161 
Puts agora or ek ks ae ae 160 
SQUASH 
Soule ieee I Ee 162 
Stuileds oe ees ey ee 161 
TOMATOES 
* Baked suck vee eee By see a ee 162 
P Scalloped #22 mune Aen ee 162 
Andi Colerya ee a eee tee 163 


QUANTITY COOKERY 


SUGGESTED MENUES 
Chicken*Salad\ tae ee 171 


THE QUAKER Cook BOOK 





Ham (Baked) ®. 2 ee 172 
Turkeys ee ae eee 174 
Steak (Country Style) —---.--.... 176 
BEVERAGES 
PruitcPunch 165 
Tced ‘Teaver ree baad Wg pf? 
Punch for 100 222 166 
Punch For a Large Company 166 
TeniGallon Punch) 165 
BREAD 
Corn Bready... 2 sae al 06 
French Bread = 174 
Quick OROUS qs ee 168 
Brown Gravy 2 2 eee 176 
DESSERT 
Ginger) Bread 2 166 
Fruit. Cuprsne ee 174 
Lemon Delicacy -.-........_...... 169 
MEAT 


Barbequed Franks -.......__.......167 
Chicken ‘Salad {2-222 eee 
Dried i Beets 23 eS 69 
Ham Loaf eG 
Hamburgers and Macaroni -_.170 


Meati loaf eae 167 
Salmon (Creamed) — —-..._....170 
Steak (Country Style) —-..... 176 
TURKEY 
Dressifig(e ee Lae 
SALAD 
Cabbage and Pineapple —.__. 168 
Chickenve’ 3s Se eee 171 
Cole Slaw 22 eee ti: 
Cottage Cheese and Peach —..172 
Golden Glow -_..-...-.--_. 166 
Holiday Salad _.._.___.._.....169 
French Dressing —.-_________ 168 
SAUCES 
Barbeque ieee ern 67 
Lemongi ee Bene ee 167 
Whites Dara se are 169 
VEGETABLES 
Buttered Carrots ~~. 177 
Cor) Pudding ee. 170 
Green Beans £u5 sre 175 
Harvard) Beets 173 
Macaroni and Cheese -_..___- 173 
Mashed Potatoes -.._-....--...-- 177 
Peas 322 Ae ee i ee hee 174 
Rice: 62 2 ea eee ee 175 
Sweet Potatoes = gee 





198 


IF UNABLE TO OBTAIN 
THE QUAKER COOK BOOK 
THROUGH YOUR LOCAL DEALER 


SEND $2.50 PLUS 20c MAILING CHARGES 


TO 
WOMAN’S AUXILIARY 
HIGH POINT FRIENDS MEETING 


HIGH POINT, NORTH CAROLINA 





The following errors in the “Quaker Cook Book” have been called 
to our attention. For your convenience, we are providing these printed 
corrections which you may paste in the proper places. 


PAGE 26—Moravian Sugar Cake. 
Add: Flour to make a soft dough 


PaGE 92—Aunt Dorothy’s Persimmon Pudding. 
Change To: 1 teaspoon allspice 
Add: 1. cup sugar 


PAGE 135—Orange Pie. 
Change To: 3 to 4 tablespoons flour 


PAGE 137—Bertha Sheetz’s Pumpkin Pie. 
Add: 2 tablespoons melted butter 


GREENSBORO PRINTING COMPANY, GREENSBORO, N. C., 








es AT 
Stee 





FOR USE. ONLY IN 















THE NORTH CAROLINA COLLECTION 


an tite there 
ete tee hee 


stplesttensen ie et 


mS 


ee atic eee tke Male 
f, = oe 


oe 


Skiaatas 





