








Published by 
The Junior Guild 
Pats of 
Rocky Mount, Inc. 


The Cookbook Committee 


Editors: Mrs. Walter Early 
Mrs. Emerson Scarborough, Jr. 
Committee: Mrs. Lyle Crumpler 
Mrs. James F. Crumpler, Jr. 
Mrs. Samuel P. Douglas, Jr. 
Mrs. J. Michael Evans 
Mrs. John High 
Mrs. W. Mac Hines | 
Mrs. William Kincheloe 
Mrs. Richard Sapp 
Art Editors: Mrs. John Hammond 
Mrs. John Jolly 


The committee is especially indebted to sustaining member Mrs. 
S.S. Toler, Jr. for her encouragement and assistance. 


Junior Guild Purpose 


To foster interest among its members in the social, economic, 
educational, cultural and civic conditions of the community and to 
make efficient their volunteer service. 


The Junior Guild 
Rocky Mount, North Carolina 


First Printing November 1975 
Second Printing May 1976 


Printed by Theo. Davis Sons, Inc. 
Zebulon, North Carolina 


fagi 


he 


Introduction and History 


Since 1937, in answer to a call for aid 
for underprivileged children, the Junior 
Guild has grown into one of the outstand- 
ing civic clubs of the city. 

Over the years, the Guild has lent its 
financial and volunteer services to a host 
of worthy projects. 

Proceeds from the sale of this cook- 
book will be used to further our projects of 
service. 

We are indebted to the Junior Guild 
membership, sustaining members and 
friends for the culinary delights herein. 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Introduction and History ........... o 
ADDELIZErS YG COGS Visi NMA Tea D 
POVELARES ee AS AMES Caen s 20 
Hees and Cheeger ane nonin One ais) 
BYVGAS ys HS TLS Dae ee RR ioe 37 
Soups and Sandwiches ............. 45 
Sauces and Marinades ............. 53 
Fruits and Vegetables .............. 61 
Salads and Dressings............... 85 
Hn brees i errand oor 109 
LJ ESSELTS 2a Re OIE Me NOU D Hila Raat 169 
Bot GF Goldy ys Se Nahe 241 


Tey EON ON ET aN a aan 249 


Appetizers | 





MINTED NUTS 


1 cup sugar 7 marshmallows 


1 Tbsp. light Karo 3 drops oil of peppermint 
% cup water 3 cups English Walnuts halved OR 


% tsp. salt 3 cups pecan halves 


Mix together the sugar, Karo, water, and salt, and cook until mixture 
reaches 230 degrees on a candy thermometer. Remove from stove. Add 
marshmallows and stir until they are melted. Add peppermint and nuts and 
stir until nuts are coated and mixture begins to harden. Spread out on brown 
paper or paper towels to cool. After cooling, you can break apart into small 
pieces. Store in tight container. These keep well. 

Alice A. Barnes 


SWEDISH MEAT BALLS 


Serves 20 for hors d’oeuures 


3 lbs. ground beef 2 Tbsp. catsup 
4 slices white bread without crusts Salt and pepper to taste 
1% cups milk Dash of thyme, allspice, garlic salt 


3 whole eggs, beaten 


Tear bread in pieces and soak well in milk. Mix remaining ingredients with 
bread. Make small meatballs. Fry in a little shortening until well done. Put 
in sauce and simmer for 1’4 hours. Serve from a chafing dish or fondue pot 
using toothpicks to spear meat balls. 


Sauce 
1 pkg. dried onion soup mix 1 cup seedless raisins 
1 can beef consomme Juice of 1 lemon 
1 large can crushed pineapple 2 or 3 Tbsp. molasses 


Mrs. Frank Harrison 
(Josephine Vann) 


SWEET AND SOUR MEATBALLS 


4-6 servings 


1 3-oz. can chopped mushrooms 1 small onion, thinly sliced 
114 lb. ground beef 1 green pepper, slivered 

1 Tbsp. sherry 1-2/3 cup drained pineapple 
1 tsp. minced onion, instant ‘4 cup sugar 

Soy sauce 14 cup cider vinegar 

1 Tbsp. cooking oil 3 Tbsp. cornstarch 


1 beef bouillon cube 
Drain mushrooms, reserving liquid. Add water to liquid to make 1 cup and 
set aside. Mix meat, mushrooms, sherry, minced onion and 2 Tbsp. soy 
sauce. Shape into balls and brown on all sides in hot oil. Drain fat. Add 1 cup 
reserved liquid and bouillon cube. Cover and simmer for 30 minutes. Add 
next 3 ingredients. Blend 2 tsp. Soy Sauce and remaining ingredients. Stir 
gradually into hot mixture. Cover and cook for 10 minutes, stirring fre- 
quently. Serve on hot rice. ; 

Mrs. Ronald R. Mucci 

(Gaye Pitt) 


CHINESE CHICKEN “DRUMETTES” 


3 lbs. “drumettes” (chicken wings with +4 cup white wine 
tips cut off and discarded—look like 1 tsp. Accent 
tiny drumsticks) 1 tsp. sugar 
14 cup salad oil 1 tsp. ground ginger 
% cup soy sauce 2 garlic cloves, chopped 
% cup pineapple syrup 


Marinate chicken in combined ingredients overnight. Drain off most of 
sauce and bake at 325° for 114-2 hours. Serve in chafing dish. 


Mrs. Emerson Scarborough 
(Lynn Wall) 


FRENCH FRIED MUSHROOMS 


Fresh mushrooms Bread crumbs seasoned with 
Flour salt and pepper 
1 egg, beaten Oil for deep frying 


Remove the stems of the mushrooms. Wipe caps with damp cloth. Roll mush- 
rooms in flour, then in beaten egg and then in crumbs. Deep fry until golden 
brown. Drain on paper towels and serve hot. 

Mrs. Young Pully 


HOT MUSHROOM TURNOVERS 
Makes about 48 turnovers 
3 3-oz. pkgs. cream cheese % cup butter or margarine 


at room temperature at room temperature 
1% cups flour 


Mix cheese and butter thoroughly. Add flour and work with hands until 
smooth. Chill well (at least 30 minutes). Roll dough to %-inch thickness on 
lightly floured board. Cut with biscuit cutter which measures 1% to 2 
inches. Place one tsp. of mushroom filling on each and fold dough over fill- 
ing. Press edges with tines of fork and prick the top. Place on ungreased 
cookie sheet. Preheat oven to 450 degrees. Bake about 15 minutes or until 
lightly browned. Serve hot. (May be frozen before baking). 


Filling 
3 Tbsp. butter or margarine | % tsp. salt 
1 large onion, finely chopped Dash of pepper 
l% Ib. mushrooms, finely chopped 2 Tbsp. flour 
ls tsp. thyme 14 cup sour cream (commercial) 


Melt butter in skillet. Saute onions. Add mushrooms and cook, stirring often, 
about 3 minutes. Add thyme, salt, pepper, and flour. Stir in sour cream and 
cook gently till thick. 

Mrs. Marvin L. Barnes 

(Cynthia Fowler) 


MUSHROOM ROLL-UPS| 


1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 lb. bacon 
1 loaf fresh bread Toothpicks 
Trim edges from bread and spread with mushroom soup. Cut each slice into 
four strips. Cut each strip of bacon in thirds and each third into two strips. 
-_ Roll up bread strips and wrap with bacon and secure with toothpick. Freeze 
on a cookie sheet and store in plastic bags. (These are economical to make). 
Cook number desired at 375° for 10 minutes. 

Mrs. Ben M. Gold 

(Cora Lee Warren) 


MUSHROOMS IN BARBECUE SAUCE 


Serves 8 


1 stick plus 1 Tbsp. butter 1 Tbsp. brown sugar 

1 cup catsup 1 Tbsp. mustard, prepared 

% cup vinegar 1 onion, grated 

% cup lemon juice Dash hot pepper sauce 

2 Tbsp. Worcestershire 1 pint small fresh mushrooms 


I add sugar to taste because I like it sweeter. 


Melt 1 stick butter, add all ingredients except mushrooms and simmer for 10 
minutes. Cut mushrooms in pieces if large. Cook mushrooms in 1 Tbsp. 
butter. Add to sauce and serve in chafing dish. (Can be prepared a day before 
and kept in refrigerator). Heat before serving. 


Mrs. John Jolly 


(Angela Blanton) 


Ea 





girciatiy 























CRACKERS DELUXE 


% lb. crackers, % lb. cheddar cheese 
(common soda crackers) (extra sharp aged) 
% lb. butter Ground red pepper 


Arrange crackers to cover cookie sheet. Melt butter and pour evenly over 
crackers. Sprinkle cheese over crackers (cover completely). Dust lightly with 
red pepper. Cook overnight (8 hours) at 150° in oven. 


Mr. H. B. Kincheloe 


GLOP 
Makes 2 cups 
1 Ib. sharp cheese 1 medium green pepper 
6 slices cooked bacon 1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 large onion 3 Tbsp. catsup or barbecue sauce 


Grind all ingredients in meat grinder. Spread on triscuits; brown under 
broiler 2-3 minutes. Serve-:hot. Freezes well. 


Mrs. Ed Moore 
(Peggy Thigpen) 


CREAM PUFFS (SHELLS) 


1% cup flour 1 cup water 
1/2 cup butter 4 or 5 eggs 
(3 cups filling) 


Measure water and put on to boil in large sauce pan. Add butter and let melt. 
To this boiling water, add flour all at once. Mix thoroughly (with hand 
mixer) and cook over direct heat for a very few minutes. Cool for a few 
minutes. Beat unbeaten eggs in one at a time, thoroughly beating (with 
hand mixer) between each. Drop by tablespoons (teaspoons for small puffs) 
on a buttered baking sheet, allowing 2 to 3 inches between puffs for expan- 
sion. Bake in a moderately hot oven (450°F) for 15 minutes. Reduce tempera- 
ture to 300° and bake 20 minutes longer. Cool, split, and fill. 

Mrs. Richard Sapp 

(Carolyn Dickson) 


BOURBON DOGS 

Makes about 100 bite size appetizers 
1 lb. all beef hot dogs % cup brown sugar 
1% cups catsup 1 Tbsp. grated onion 


34 cup bourbon 


Cut hot dogs into %” slices and put in skillet with remaining ingredients. 

Simmer on very low heat for 45 minutes to an hour. Serve in a chafing dish. 
Mrs. A. Gilmore Crumpler, Jr. 
(Gera Lu Shervette) 


10 


BEEF AND CREAM CHEESE ROLL-UPS 


_1 pkg. very thinly sliced sandwich beef Onion juice (scrape an onion with a 


1 large pkg. cream cheese at very sharp knife until you get about 
room temperature 1% tsp. juice) 


1 to 2 tsp. horseradish 1 Tbsp. Worcestershire 
. Few drops of Tabasco 


Blend cheese, Worcestershire, onion juice, horseradish, and Tabasco 
together. Spread a thin layer of cheese mixture on each slice of beef. Roll 
each sliceindividually from one end to the other. Store all the beef rolls in the 
freezer in a container that will make them hold their shape. After they are 
frozen they may be cut into 1-inch lengths with an electric knife. Each beef 
roll makes 5 or 6 hors d’oeuvres. You may use toothpicks to serve them or you 
may serve them on a tray and allow your guests to pick them up. These will 
keep well in the freezer for several weeks and it takes about % hour at room 
temperature for them to be ready to serve. 
Mrs. L. Ernest Bridgers, Jr. 
(Marie Pearson) 


BROCCOLI IN CHAFING DISH 


3 ribs celery, chopped 1 pkg. frozen broccoli, chopped fine 
1 small can mushrooms, chopped 1 can cream of mushroom soup 

1-1] medium onion, chopped Dash tobasco 

3 Tbsp. butter 1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 


1 roll Kraft Garlic Cheese 

Saute mushrooms, onions and celery in butter. Add cheese and stir until 
melted. Mix in other ingredients and heat. Serve on toast points or patty 
shells. 


Mrs. Archie W. McLean 





LL 


HOT BEEF SPREAD 


8 oz. pkg. cream cheese 2 Tbsp. dried onion flakes 
2 Tbsp. milk % tsp. garlic salt 

2'2 oz. dried chipped beef, chopped 14 tsp. pepper 

4 cup green pepper, chopped % cup sour cream 


Cream together cream cheese and milk. Add rest of ingredients and pour all 
in 8” pie plate and cover with topping mixture. 


Topping Mixture 
12 cup chopped pecans % tsp. salt 
2 Tbsp. margarine 
Brown all ingredients together. Bake at 350° for 20 minutes. 
TO FREEZE: Mix first part and freeze. Then add topping and bake. 
Mrs. Stan Ford 


VEGETABLE SPREAD 
Serves 16-20 
lcucumber + GA.” 2 cups mayonnaise 
1 tomato 1 pkg. gelatin 
1 Tbsp. Worcestershire 


I onion 
1 green pepper Salt and pepper to taste 


Dice vegetables into small pieces. Dissolve gelatin in %4 cup water; add 
slowly to vegetables and mayonnaise. Season with salt, pepper, and 
Worcestershire and refrigerate several hours. Since the vegetables will be 
congealed, stir a couple of times before pouring into serving bowl. Serve with 


saltines or melba rounds. 
Mrs. Walton Avery 


BLUE CHEESE SPREAD 


2 Tbsp. minced onion 
1 cup diced chicken 
Dash seasoned salt (plain will do) 


14 cup sour cream 
14 cup crumbled blue cheese 


14 cup green pepper 
Combine above ingredients and serve on toast rounds. 
Mrs. Earl Baysden 


DEVILED HAM SPREAD 


2 large cans deviled ham Dash Texas Pete 
3 Tbsp. chopped olives 1 3-oz. pkg. cream cheese 

3 Tbsp. mustard Milk 

Put deviled ham, mustard and Texas Pete on plate and round off. Chill. Add 
to cream cheese. Use enough milk to soften. Mix well and cover chilled ham 
mold. Slice olives thin and stick on mold. Spread for crackers. 

Mrs. N. B. Livengood, Jr. 


(Joyce Griffin) 


12 


NEW ORLEANS SHRIMP SPREAD 


1 tsp. lemon juice 

2 Tbsp. mayonnaise 
3 Tbsp. melted butter 
1 tsp. anchovy paste 


1 3-oz. pkg. cream cheese, 
room temperature 

% cup chopped cooked shrimp 

2 tsp. minced onion 


Mix all ingredients except onion and shrimp until creamy smooth. Then add > 


onion and shrimp. Serve on crackers. 
Lee Gravely 


ZIPPY BEEF-OLIVE SPREAD 


1 tsp. instant minced onion 2 Tbsp. mayonnaise 
1 Tbsp. dry sherry 3 oz. pkg. smoked sliced beef 
8 oz. cream cheese 4 cup pimiento stuffed green olives 


Soften minced onion in sherry. Blend cream cheese with mayonnaise and 
the sherry-onion mixture. Stir in smoked sliced beef, finely snipped, and % 
cup chopped olives. Serve with crackers. I usually double this since it keeps 
so well in the refrigerator. Can be made days in advance. 

Mrs. John Jolly 

(Angela Blanton) 


TUNA SPREAD OR BALL 


34 tsp. Tabasco sauce 


3 7-oz. cans tuna 
14 cup minced onion 


1 large pkg. cream cheese 
1% tsp. dry mustard 

Cream the cheese. Mix the mustard, tabasco and onion. Add thetuna. Make 
a ball or log or any shape. Place in refrigerator. Better if made the day 


before. Serve with crackers. 
Mrs. Leon Henderson, Jr. 


(Emily Dean) 
SHRIMP MOLD 
1 envelope gelatin ~1 tsp. salt 
2 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese .l tsp. prepared mustard 
~l tsp. sugar 


2 cups chopped shrimp 
% cup Miracle Whip salad dressing »1 tsp. Worcestershire 
~t% cup catsup «4 tsp. Tabasco 
2 tsp. grated onion 1 stalk celery, finely chopped (optional) 
Heat all spices but don’t boil. Dissolve gelatin in % cup cold water and add 
gelatin to hot mixture. Cream cheese with the Miracle Whip and add this to 
warm mixture. Add shrimp and the chopped celery. Pour in a mold greased 
with mayonnaise. Let stand in refrigerator overnight. Delicious on crackers. 
Mrs. Dillon Rose 
(Katie Ellison) 


13 


SHRIMP MOLD SPREAD 
Serves 50 


1 can tomato soup 2 cups shrimp, fresh or canned, 


2 pkgs. plain gelatin cut into thirds 
% cup cold water 1 cup salad dressing 


2 large pkgs. cream cheese (do not use mayonnaise) 
% cup chopped onion Salt (pinch) 
’% cup chopped celery 
Bring soup to boil (do not dilute with water). Mix gelatin in cold water. Add 
to boiling soup, add creamed cheese. Mix until smooth over heat. Add 
remaining ingredients and pour into greased mold. Spread on crackers. 
Mrs. K. D. Weeks 
(Mildred Holley) 


EASY PATE 
Serves 20 


1 8-oz. pkg, cream cheese 1 onion, chopped 


1 large can luncheon meat 1 tsp. salt 
(I use Treet) tsp. pepper — 


% cup olives, chopped 2 Tbsp. lemon juice 

1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce Extra olives, sliced 

Soften cream cheese and mix with finely chopped meat. Blend in all other 
ingredients and form into a loaf. Cover with sliced olives and chill. Serve on 
crackers. 
Mrs. Wilson R. Carter 
(Janie Wall) 
Lexington, N. C. 


BEEF JERKY 

2-4 lbs round steak, thick as 2 Tbsp. salt 

possible (1'4” to 2”) 1 Tbsp. pepper 
4 Tbsp. Liquid Smoke (from gourmet 2 Tbsp. Worcestershire 

counter at supermarket) 1 Tbsp. tenderizer (optional) 
Slice beef along the grain into 4” to 8” long strips, thinnest slices possible 
with extremely sharp knife. Combine salt, pepper, Worcestershire, Liquid 
Smoke. Add tenderizer if you don’t like your jerky chewy. Place beef strips in 
bowl and pour mixture over. Turn beef several times to thoroughly mari- 
nate. Place beef strips on rack in oven side by side. (Must be on oven rack, not 
pan or sheet). If you use standard oven racks line bottom of oven with foil to 
catch drippings. Cook overnight (8 hours) at 150°. Store in airtight jar or 
plastic bag. Pioneer food with proteins and flavor. Keeps for months—a 


super snack. 
Bill Kincheloe 


14 


TEMPURA 
(From the Command General Staff 
College in Norfolk) 


1 egg, beaten String beans 
1% cups flour Mushrooms 

- 1% cups water } Eggplant 
Shrimp Sweet potatoes 
Green onion Peanut oil 


Mix beaten egg, water and flour. Add any combination of the other 
ingredients. Drop by teaspoonsful into hot peanut oil and brown until crisp. 
Serve with soy sauce, sweet and sour sauce or hot mustard. May be frozen 
and reheated in oven. 

Mrs. Jack Brake 

(Kathryn Jones) 


HOT CRABMEAT CANAPES 
1 stick oleo 1 jar Old English cheese spread 
1% tsp. mayonnaise % tsp. garlic salt 
1 can crabmeat 6 English muffins, split 


Soften oleo and cheese. Mix with mayonnaise, garlic salt. Add crabmeat. 
Cut each muffin in triangles and spread mix on muffins. Broil until bubbly. 
Can be frozen before cooking. 

Mrs. R. C. Quigley 


CHARLESTON SHRIMP APPETIZER 
3 or 4 lbs. shrimp 3 lemons | 
2 medium onions 2% bottles Krafts Red French dressing 
Boil and clean shrimp using 2 bay leaves and whole pepper corns. Layer cool - 
shrimp, onions and lemon (slice thin). Pour over small amount Kraft’s Red - 
French dressing. Continue to layer. Then pour full bottle Krafts over the 
layered shrimp. Refrigerate tightly 2 days. The lemons and onions are as 
good as the shrimp! | 
Mrs. Jack Brake 
(Kathryn Jones) 





PICKLED SHRIMP 


2% lbs. shrimp 1% tsp. salt 

ly cup pickling spice 21% Tbsp. capers and juice 
5 onions, sliced 2'2 tsp. celery seed 

1% cup salad oil Dash Tabasco 


34 cup white vinegar 
Add pickling spices to shrimp, cover with water and boil for 10 minutes. 
Drain and cool. In large container alternate shrimp with sliced onion. Cover 
with other ingredients. Let stand 24 hours. 

Mrs. Joe L. Riddick 

(Pat Carty) 


15 


_ CHEESE WAFERS 


2 sticks margarine Dash of cayenne pepper or Tabasco 
2 cups plain flour 3 cups Rice Krispies 
(sift before measuring) % lb. grated cheese, sharp 


1 tsp. salt 
Flatten out small balls of dough into wafers. Cook in 400° oven 


approximately 8 minutes. 
Mrs. Young Pully 


CHEESE STRAWS 


Makes approximately 100 cheese straws 


10 oz. extra sharp cheese 2 scant cups plain flour 

2 sticks of margarine 4 tsp. red pepper 

Grate cheese and mix with flour until it is the consistency of corn meal. Add 
softened margarine and pepper and thoroughly mix. Roll out dough and cut 
in small strips with potato cutter. Place on ungreased baking sheet and bake 


at 350° for 10 minutes. 
| Mrs. J. B. A. Daughtridge 


DIET WORKSHOP CHEESE BALL 


1 lb. cheddar cheese, grated, 2 tsp. low calorie Italian salad 


(at room temperature) dressing mix (dry) 
4 oz. soft farmer’s cheese 1 tsp. dried onion flakes 


2 Tbsp. skim milk Parsley 

Mash cheese with a fork till softened. Add other ingredients (except parsley) 
and beat with electric mixer till smooth. Shape in a ball. Roll in parsley. 
Wrap in plastic wrap and chill overnight. To serve put on tray with cucum- 
ber rings, celery, cherry tomatoes, etc. | 

Mrs. James Ezzell 
(Patsy Wall) 


CHEESE BALLS 
1 small pkg. Philadelphia 
cream cheese 
2 garlic cloves 
14 tsp. red pepper 


Have cheese at room temperature. Grate. Mix with hands. Add garlic and 
red pepper. Shape into small balls (about the size of marbles). Roll over 
waxed paper sprinkled with chili powder, sesame seeds, or crushed nuts to 
give color. Freeze on cookie sheets. Then put in baggies. Serve at room 


temperature with crackers. 


1% lb. strong N. Y. cheese 
2 oz. Roquefort cheese 
1 glass Old English cheese 


Mrs. Wardlaw Lamar 
(Susan Keel) 


16 


ALMOND CHEESE BALL 


% lb. sharp cheddar cheese, grated 1% tsp. salt 

3 oz. cream cheese, softened 1% tsp. Worcestershire 
', cup pimiento, diced 2 tsp. grated onion 

34 cup chopped almonds Dash of cayenne 


1 Tbsp. lemon juice | 
Mix all ingredients. Shape into ball. Roll in paprika, chopped parsley, or 
chopped almonds to coat. Chill. Freezes well. 

Mrs. John H. High 

(Caroline Hunton) 


SAUSAGE CHEESE BALLS 

1 lb. hot sausage 2 pkgs. cheese biscuit mix 
% lb. sharp cheese, shredded 
Mix well all ingredients and form into balls the size of walnuts. Place on 
cookie sheet and depress with fork. Cook in 450° oven until lightly brown 
(about 10 minutes). NOTE: Plain biscuit mix may be used. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Rk. L. Yelverton 

(Nancy Gordon) 


CHRISTMAS CHEESE LOGS 


1 lb. cream cheese 1 5.33-0z. can evaporated milk 
1 lb. cheddar cheese % cup chopped ripe olives 

(4 lb. sharp, % lb. mild) ‘2 tsp. soda 
1 cup chopped pecans Paprika 


2 cloves minced garlic 
Let cheese stand room temperature overnight. Mix all ingredients. Shape 
into 2 logs and roll in paprika. 

Mrs. Harris Hortman 

(Glenda Lumpkin) 


BRAUNSCHWEIGER BALL 


1 lb. Braunschweiger 1 tsp. chili sauce 

2 Tbsp. sherry 1 tsp. onion juice 

2 Tbsp. mayonnaise 34 cup chopped pecans 
ICING 

1k cup sour cream Snipped parsley 


1 Tbsp. mayonnaise 
Mix first 6 ingredients together, blending well. Shape into ball. Mix sour 
cream and mayonnaise together. Frost ball (frosting is a little runny—wipe 
away excess from plate). Garnish with snipped parsley. Serve with melba 
rounds. 

Mrs. Ben O. Yelverton, Jr. 

(Joan Currie) 


17 


LOBSTER DIP 
1 pint sour cream 1 can lobster meat (not tails) 
1 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese 1 8-oz. jar of chopped Spanish olives 
1 pkg. dry garlic salad dressing mix % tsp. lemon juice 


Mix sour cream, cream cheese and salad dressing mix and beat until smooth 
and fluffy. Flake lobster as fine as possible. If you have blender this is the 
time to use it. Drain some of the juice from olives and add olives to mixture 
with 4 tsp. lemon juice. Canned shrimp can be used in place of lobster. 
Mash the shrimp. 

Mrs. Thomas Bayton Suiter, Jr. 


SHRIMP DIP I 
Serves 25-30 


2 8-oz. pkgs. cream cheese 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 3-oz. pkg. or tin cream cheese w/chives tsp. garlic powder 

1 can cream of shrimp soup I-1 tsp. paprika 

1% cups chopped cooked shrimp 34-1 cup mayonnaise 

1 tsp. dry mustard Salt and pepper to taste 


Mix ingredients thoroughly in large bowl at least two hours before serving. 
Chill well. Will keep for 2-3 days. 

Mrs. Robert D. White 

(“Boo”’ Pearsall) 


SHRIMP DIP II 


1 lb. frozen shrimp 1 pt. sour cream 

1 pkg. Good Season’s Italian dressing 

Wash and drain shrimp well. Dice into small pieces. Mix other ingredients 
and add shrimp. Chill for at least 1 hour. Serve with Melba toast or other 


crackers (not too salty). 
Julia Powers 


CRAB DIP 


1 6-oz. can crabmeat 1 cup mayonnaise 

2 3-oz. pkgs. cream cheese 2 Tbsp. catsup 

4 Tbsp. chopped onion 

Blend with mixer and chill. Serve with raw vegetables or Frito’s. 
Mrs. William Eskridge 


CURRY DIP 

(For Raw Vegetables) 

% cup chili sauce 
1 cup mayonnaise 
Salt to taste 


1% tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
12 tsp. Tabasco sauce 

l% tsp. mustard, prepared 

1 Tbsp. curry powder 


Mix well. Makes about 2 cups. 
India Sprye 


18 


VEGETABLE DIP 


14 tsp. curry powder 

2 Tbsp. chili sauce (catsup) 
Chopped chives to taste 

2 Tbsp. grated onion 


1 cup mayonnaise 
2 tsp. Taragon vinegar 
Dash black pepper 
1 tsp. salt 
Y% tsp. ground thyme 
Blend together. Use fresh raw vegetables to dip. 
Jeannine Hicks 


CRAB VEGETABLE DIP 
Makes 2 cups 


1 7'4-o0z. can crab or 1 Tbsp. grated onion 
1 6-oz. pkg. frozen crab 1 Tbsp. lemon juice 
1 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese 1% tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 cup sour cream Dash Tabasco 
2 Tbsp. chili sauce Salt to taste 


Drain and slice crab. Soften cream cheese and blend with sour cream. Add 
chili sauce, onion, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco and salt. 
Blend thoroughly. Add crab. Serve chilled with vegetable dippers. 
Mrs. William B. Floyd, Jr. 
(Carolyn Ham) 


DILL AND ONION DIP 


2/3 cup mayonnaise (commercial) 1 Tbsp. parsley 
2/3 cup dairy sour cream 1 tsp. dill weed 
1 Tbsp. shredded green onions 1 tsp. beau monde seasoning 


Combine all ingredients and chill. Good for dip with fresh raw vegetables. 
Can be made ahead but do not freeze. . 
Mrs. A. P. Thorpe II 
(Annie Gray Calhoun) 





19 


ASPARAGUS DIP 
Serves 20 


1 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese 1 Tbsp. pimiento 
1 Tbsp. minced onion 1 can cream of asparagus soup 
Have cream cheese stand at room temperature for 3 hours. Mix all ingred- 
ients together. Chill. Great with celery and carrots. 
Mrs. David Jay 
(Susan Klitzner) 


UNDERWOOD DEVILED HAM CHAFING DISH DIP 


1 lb. processed American cheese 2 tsp. prepared mustard 
(do not substitute another cheese) 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
2 4%-oz. cans Underwood deviled ham 
Melt cheese over iow heat. Stir in deviled ham, mustard, and Worcestershire 
sauce. Keep hot in chafing dish or over a candle warmer. Leftovers make 
delicious cold spread. Serve with Frito’s or crackers. 
Mrs. Frank Pattillo 
(Carol Franck) 


HOT CLAM DIP 


1 small onion 4 Tbsp. catsup 

1h green pepper 1 Tbsp Worcestershire 

3 Tbsp. melted butter 1 Tbsp. sherry 

1%, lb. Velveeta cheese 14 tsp. cayenne pepper 

1 10-oz. can Snow’s minced clams . 

Saute onion and green pepper in melted butter till clear, not brown. Melt 
cheese in top of double boiler. Add clams, drained, catsup, Worcestershire, 
sherry and cayenne pepper. Cook till thick (like Brunswick Stew). Serve in 
chafing dish. Use a silver spoon for the dip to be placed on Triscuits. Three 


times this recipe serves 40 people. 
Mrs. Pell Lea 


CRABMEAT DIP (HOT) 


4 Tbsp. catsup 

1 Tbsp. Worcestershire 
1% tsp. red pepper 

1 Tbsp. sherry 


3 Tbsp. butter 

1 small onion, chopped 
% green pepper 

14 lb. Velveeta cheese 


1 lb. crabmeat 
Saute butter, chopped onion and green pepper for 3 minutes. Cool and add 


Velveeta, crabmeat, catsup, Worcestershire, red pepper and sherry. Blend 


well and serve hot. 
Mrs. W. P. Holding 
(Peggy Vick) 


20 


SHRIMP CANAPES 
Makes 16-18 Canapes 


1 4%-oz. can shrimp, drained 6-8 American cheese slices 
16-18 club crackers 


1/3 cup mayonnaise 
14 cup chopped onion 14 cup Parmesan cheese 
14 tsp. each salt, pepper and paprika _~ 


Chop shrimp. Add to next 3 ingredients. Spread on crackers. Top with 
cheeses. Broil about 6-8 minutes until lightly brown. 

Mrs. Richard Cutler 

(Lea Paulson) 


GOURMET MEATBALLS 
Makes about 60 1-inch balls 


2 egg yolks or 1 whole egg % cup water 
1% cup dry prepared bread crumbs 1 cup water chestnuts, finely chopped 


2 Tbsp. horseradish 1% lbs. ground chuck 


Beat egg yolks and water together. Then add everything else together. Roll 
into 1” balls and bake at 350° for 12 minutes in shallow pan. Serve hot as 


appetizer. 


Mrs. Thomas Vaughan 
(Janice Grossman) 





21 


SAUSAGE TWIRLS 

Serves 20-30 

2 lbs. hot or regular sausage 4 8-oz. cans biscuits 
(your preference) (avoid fluffy buttermilk type) 

Roll out one can of biscuits into a rectangle on an amply floured surface. 
Spread a thin layer of sausage on surface. Roll into log jelly-roll fashion. 
With sharp, floured knife, slice into 1/4” thick pieces. Place on jelly roll pan 
(use a pan with sides to keep grease from spilling in oven) and bake at 450° 
for about 8-12 minutes until biscuit golden and sausage done. Repeat proced- 
ure until all ingredients used. 
. Mrs. William Hoyle 
(Linda Bishop) 


DATE APPETIZER 


Makes 125 
1 lb. flour (4 cups) % tsp. salt 
1 lb grated sharp cheese 1% tsp. paprika 
1 lb. butter 2 boxes of dates 


Mix first 5 ingredients. Roll thin, cut with biscuit cutter. Put date in center 
of round, fold sides to meet. Bake about 20 minutes at 325°. 

Mrs. Dixon Tilley 

(Sylvia Bell) 


COCKTAIL REUBENS 
Makes 36 sandwiches 


36 slices party rye bread 1 8-oz. can sauerkraut, drained 
1 4-oz. pkg. thinly sliced corned beef 6 slices Swiss cheese 
(or one can) Thousand Island dressing 

Spread each slice of rye with a little dressing. Top with corned beef. Cover 
with teaspoon of sauerkraut. Top each with small slice of cheese. Bake 400° 6 
to 8 minutes. (I prefer broiling) or till cheese melts and appetizers are heated 
through. 

Mrs. Jack Brake 

(Kathryn Jones) 


CHEESE SPREAD 

8 oz. cream cheese 2 or 3 Tbsp. minced dried onion 
1/3 cup Catalina dressing 
Soak onion in dressing. Cream cheese in mixer. Add dressing with onion. 


Serve with crackers. 
Mrs. Randy Anderson 


(Harriet Spruill) 


22 


MARINATED CAULIFLOWER 


Serves 8 as hors d’oeuures, 6 as salad 


1 head cauliflower 1% Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
2 Tbsp. wine vinegar 1 drop Tabasco 

1 crushed garlic clove 1 cup Hellmans mayonnaise 

2 Tbsp. chopped green onion 2 quarts water 


1 Tbsp. chives 


Wash cauliflower and break into florets. Bring 2 quarts water to boil and 
drop in cauliflower and bring to second boil. Boil 50 seconds. Remove 
immediately. Mix all other ingredients and mix in bow! with cauliflower. 
Marinate at least four hours. Serve out of refrigerator. 

Mrs. Jack Laughery 

(Helen Herboth) 


EASY MEAT BALLS IN SWEET & SOUR SAUCE 
Makes 75 to 100 meatballs 


1 lb. ground beef 1% tsp. pepper 
3 Tbsp. minced onion 1% tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
12 cup bread crumbs 1 egg 
1 tsp. salt 1% cup milk 
Sauce 


2 16-0z. can Sweet n’ Sour Sauce 
(Contadiha) K-Mart has it. 


Combine into small meatballs. Bake at 400° 10-15 minutes on cookie sheets. 
Place in fondue or chafing dish with sauce. Serve warm. 

Mrs. Michael S. Colo 

(Mary Alice Barr) 


PARTY CHEESE BALLS 
Serves approximately 48 

2 cups grated cheddar cheese % tsp. salt 
% cup soft butter 1 tsp. paprika 
1 cup flour 
Blend ingredients together. Wrap around olive or small piece of sausage, 
ham, etc. Arrange on ungreased baking sheet and bake at 400 degrees for 
approximately 15 minutes. 

Mrs. James F. Crumpler, Jr. 

(Stephanie Williams) 


CHEDDAR CHEESE SPREAD 
Makes 2 cups 


1 lb. cheddar cheese, grated Salt and pepper to taste 

2/3 cup mayonnaise 14 tsp. garlic salt 

2 Tbsp. horseradish % to 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
Dash of Tabasco 1% lemon juiced 


Combine all ingredients and shape into ball. Roll in chopped nuts and 
sprinkle with paprika. Chill and serve with fruit and crackers. 
Peggy Ann Vaughan 


23 


RUMAKI | 
Makes 2 dozen 
6 chicken livers Brown sugar 
12 slices of bacon Toothpicks or bamboo skewers 
8 water chestnuts (Bamboo skewers seem sturdier, 
Soy sauce merely cut in half) 


Cut chicken livers into quarters and soak 4 hours in enough soy sauce to 
cover. Drain. Slice bacon in half and water chestnuts into 3 or 4 pieces. Dip 
chicken liver and water chestnut into brown sugar and wrap half slice of 
bacon around them. Fasten with skewers. Roll generously in brown sugar. 
Arrange on wire rack over a shallow roasting pan. Bake in hot oven (400°) 
90-30 minutes or until bacon is crisp. Turn occasionally. Rumaki freeze 
beautifully. Very messy to make and smoke a good deal when cooking, but 
well worth the trouble. Excellent for a brunch. 

Mrs. Ben O. Yelverton, Jr. 

(Joan Currie) 


HOT DOG APPETIZERS 


1 9-oz. jar French’s mustard 1 pkg. hotdogs 
1 10-oz. jar currant jelly 
Melt jelly and mustard. Slice hot dogs into 1” pieces. Add to jelly and 
mustard. Serve from chafing dish with toothpicks. 
Mrs. Ruric Anderson 
(Harriet Spruill) 


CUCUMBER DIP 
Serves 10 


1 3-oz. pkg. cream cheese 1 cucumber 
Mayonnaise 
Cream cheese should stand for 3 hours at room temperature. Chop cucum- 
ber. Add small amount of mayonnaise and mix together. Chill. 
Mrs. David Jay 
(Susan Klitzner) 


SY 
ye 
¢ 


( fi 


— 
— 





iN 


Sd 


or “S 
d)) Ve WE vee ve 





24 


PIZZA FRANKS 
Makes at least 8 dozen 


214 cups sifted flour ’ tsp. dried basil leaves 

4 tsp. baking powder % tsp. dried oregano leaves 

% tsp. cream of tartar 1/3 cup shortening 

14 tsp. garlic salt . 1/3 cup milk 

14 tsp. onion salt 1/3 cup tomato paste 

1 Tbsp. sugar 1 egg, unbeaten 

14 cup Parmesan cheese 1 lb. weiners, cut in 2” pieces 


Sift together first 6 ingredients. Stir in cheese, basil and oregano: Cut 
shortening into flour mixture to make coarse crumbs. Add milk, tomato 
paste and egg; stir with fork until dough follows fork around the bowl. 
Knead on floured board 4-5 times. Roll dough about 1/2-inch thick. Cut 1- 
inch rounds. (I use doughnut hole cutter). Press dough around weiners to 
form a cup. Makes at least 8 dozen. Place in aluminum foil pans. (7-1/4”x11- 
1/4”) disposable type. Cover and freeze. To serve remove covering and bake 
unthawed in 400° preheated oven 13-15 minutes until nicely browned and 
puffed. 
Mrs. Richard Cutler 


(Lea Paulson) 
SEAFOOD NEWBURG 
Serves 12 

1% lb. frozen shrimp, cooked and 1% sticks butter 

diced % cup + 2 Tbsp. flour 
1 lb. Alaskan King Crab, thawed, 1 qt. Half ’N Half cream 

drained and diced 144 tsp. salt 
1% cup sherry or more % cup heavy cream 
1 Tbsp. lemon juice 2 egg yolks 
4 tsp. nutmeg 1 cup grated sharp cheese 


Mix seafood, sherry, lemon juice and nutmeg. Cover and chill several 
hours or overnight. Melt butter. Blend in flour and stir in 1 qt. Half ’N 
Half. Add salt and cook over low heat until thickened about 20 minutes. 
Combine egg yolks (beaten) and cream. Add to sauce with grated cheese. 
Stir until well blended and cheese is melted. Add marinated seafood and 
marinate. Heat 10 minutes longer. Serve over toast points or patty shells. 
May be thinned with milk or more sherry. 

Mrs. Sam P. Douglas, Jr. 

(Gail Barksdale) 


HOT CHEESE ROUNDS 


Makes 30 
8-oz. pkg. cheese, Old English 1 tsp. grated onion 
or Velveeta Salt and red pepper to taste 
1 egg, well beaten 10 pieces bread 


% tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Grate cheese and blend with egg. Mix with seasonings. With small round 
cutter cut out bread circles-no crusts. Spread cheese mixture on bread 
rounds and place on cookie sheet. Place under broiler for a few minutes 
until they puff up and turn slightly brown. 


Mrs. Sam P. Douglas, Jr. 
(Gail Barksdale) 





Add 1 pint whiskey and rum, 
: 2s stand in peaks. Beat 
into Ik mixture. Serve with 





27 


BLOODY MARYS 
2 46-oz. cans V/8 Juice 1% oz. Worcestershi 
1% Fifths 80-Proof Vodka % tsp. Tabasco fo ca aes ai 
(approximately 38 oz.) 1 Tbsp. salt 


2 oz. fresh lemon or lime juice, strained 

Mix ingredients in 5 quart container. Makes 24 6-0z. servings. Serve over 
crushed ice. Garnish lightly with salt or ground black pepper, then slice of 
lemon or lime. When making ahead, mix all ingredients together except 
vodka. Add vodka at time of serving. Individual drinks can be made on basis 
of 7 parts mix to 3 parts vodka. Great for a brunch. Usually allow 2-2% drinks 
per person. 

Ben O. Yelverton, Jr. 


HOT BUTTERED RUM 
Serves 42 people 


1 lb. butter or margarine 1 tsp. allspice 

2 1-lb boxes light brown sugar 2 tsp. cinnamon, ground 
2 eggs Rum 

i tsp. nutmeg Cinnamon sticks 


Put butter, sugar, eggs, nutmeg, allspice, and ground cinnamon in electric 
mixing bowl. Beat at medium speed for as long as you can stand the noise (at 
least 30 minutes). Freeze. When ready to serve, thaw butter mixture slightly. 
Put 1 Tbsp. of butter stuff and 1 jigger rum in mug. Fill with boiling water. 
Stir. Add a cinnamon stick (or pieces of one) for garnish. Can be frozen and 
refrozen. 

Mrs. Wardlaw Lamar 


(Susan Keel) 
WASSAIL 
Serves 15-20 
1 cup sugar 2 cups orange juice 
4 cinnamon sticks 6 cups Claret (Bordeaux red) 
Lemon slices 1% cup lemon juice 
% cup water 1 cup dry sherry 


2 cups pineapple juice 
Boil sugar, cinnamon sticks and 3 lemon slices in 2 cup water for 5 minutes 
and strain. Heat but do not boil remaining ingredients. Combine with syrup, 
garnish with lemon slices and serve hot. 

Mrs. W. Rk. Coleman 


VODKA CHRISTMAS PUNCH 
Makes 150 cups 
5 fifths 100-proof vodka 3% 6-oz. cans frozen lemon juice 
15 pints cranberry juice 5 large bottles soda water 


Mix all together over ice in punch bowl. Very potent. 
Mrs. George E. Newby 
(Nancy Butler) 


28 


WATERMELON AND WINE PUNCH 
Makes 2 quarts 


’% cup sugar % watermelon, cut lengthwise 
% 6-oz. can frozen pink lemonade 1 28-oz. bottle ginger ale, 
concentrate, thawed chilled (3'4 cups) 


1 4/5-quart bottle rosé 


Combine sugar and ‘4 cup water; boil 5 minutes. Add lemonade concen- 
trate and wine; chill. Cut slice of bottom of melon to make it flat. Carve 
edge of melon. Cut 2 cups melon balls; remove remaining pulp. Pour punch 
into melon; add melon balls and ginger ale. 

Mrs. Walter J. Early 

(Margaret MacDonald) 


HIGH-PROTEIN MILKSHAKE FOR CHILDREN 
Serves 1 
3, cup milk 1 egg 
% banana % tsp. vanilla 
2 Thsp. sugar 
Whip all ingredients together in a blender. 
Mrs. Emerson Scarborough 
(Lynn Wall) 


HOT CHOCOLATE MIX 


1 8-oz. jar non-dairy cream 1 lb. box Nestle’s Quik 
1 8-qt. box powdered milk 1 lb. box powdered sugar 


Mix well, will make a bunch, but stores forever. (1/3 cup mix per cut hot 
water.) 


Mrs. Leon Dunn 
(Pattie McCay) 


COFFEE PUNCH 
Serves 25-30 
% gallon instant coffee 1 small container of Cool-Whip 
1 gallon vanilla ice-cream 1 bottle of gingerale 


Make '% gallon of instant coffee and chill overnight. Place ice cream in 
punch bowl 30 minutes before serving. Add Cool-Whip and gingerale and 
mix all together 15 minutes before serving. Excellent for warm summer and 
early fall days. 
Mrs. L. M. Barnes, III 
(Margaret Daughtridge) 


29 


CAFE AU CREME QUEBEC. 


Serves 6 
24 marshmellows 1 cup heavy cream, whipped 
‘4 Cup sugar Bar of bitter chocolate or 
1 cup strong coffee chocolate bits 


Melt marshmellows, sugar and coffee in double boiler. Cool. Fold in 1 cup 
whipped cream. Put in sherbert glasses or punch cups. Sprinkle shaved 
chocolate or chocolate bits on top. (If preferred, add extra whipped cream on 
top, then add chocolate). Keep refrigerated. Can be made several days 
ahead. Can also be a dessert. 


Mrs. Allan Mims 


TEXAS TEA 
Serves 12 
7 tea bags — 34-1 cup sugar 
7 sprigs fresh mint or 1 12-o0z, can unsweetened 
1 tsp, peppermint or pineapple juice 


mint extract 1 6-oz. can frozen lemonade 
: (prepared according to directions) 


Boil 1'4 quarts water. Add tea, mint, sugar. Steep 20-30 minutes. Remove 
bags and stems and mix in pineapple juice and lemonade. Strain if 
necessary. 

Sam Matthews Edwards 


Raleigh, N. C. 
RUSSIAN TEA 
Serves 16 
5 tea bags 1 6-oz. can frazen lemonade 
2 cups boiling water 1 #2 can unsweetened pineapple juice 
6 cups cold water. 1 tsp. ground cloves or 
1'4 cups sugar 1 Tbsp. whole cloves 
2 6-oz. cans frozen orange juice 1 tsp. ground cinnamon 


Steep tea bags in boiling water 5 minutes. Drain. Add remaining ingred- 
ients except spices. Bring almost to a boil. Add spices. Can be frozen in 
plastic containers. 

Mrs. Henry Hinson 

(Lucy Aldridge) 


HOLIDAY TEA 


Serves 10 
1 quart water 1 family size tea bag Ph 
1 cup sugar 1 large can pineapple-orange juice 
6 sticks cinnamon 
Bring to a boil: water, sugar ana cinnamon. Add tea bag and let steep. Add 


pineapple-orange juice. Bring to a boil. Serve hot or cold. 
Mrs. W. B. Bullock 





oi 


FROSTED GRASSHOPPER 


Serves 1 


1% oz. green Creme de Menthe % cup milk 
1 scoop vanilla ice cream 


Put ingredients in blender and mix. Serve in parfait glass with straw. 


Mrs. Emerson Scarborough 
(Lynn Wall) 


FROSTED GRAND MARNIER 
Serves 1 


1% oz. Grand Marnier 1% cup cream 
1 scoop vanilla ice cream 


Put ingredients in blender and mix. Serve in parfait glass with straw. Can 
sprinkle top with nutmeg. 


Mrs. Emerson Scarborough 
(Lynn Wall) 


BANANA STRAWBERRY PUNCH 
Makes 12 cups 


1 small box frozen strawberries 1 pint pineapple sherbert 
4 bananas, peeled Whole strawberries, for garnish 
1/3 cup sugar 1 banana, sliced, for garnish 


1 quart chilled ginger ale 


Mash bananas, strawberries and sugar in mixer or blender. Pour into punch 
bowl. Add gingerale. Top with mounds of sherbert. Garnish. 

Mrs. W. M. Marshburn 

(Patsy Wiley) 


CRANBERRY PUNCH 
8 tea bags 1 small can frozen lemonade 
2 quarts boiling water 1 small can orange juice 
2 sticks cinnamon 1 small can pineapple juice 
1 pint cranberry juice 1% cups sugar 


Boil water with cinnamon sticks. Make tea and add sugar. Cool. Add 
remaining ingredients. 

Mrs. Richard Sapp 

(Carolyn Dickson) 


FRUIT PUNCH II 


1 #2 can grapefruit-orange juice 14 cup sugar 

1 #2 can pineapple juice % quart gingerale 

Juice of 4% lemon 

Combine all ingredients and chill. 
Mrs. Robert S. Smith 
(Rachel Goodwin) 


32 
EGGNOG II 


1 doz. eggs 1 pint of vanilla ice cream 
1 cup sugar Nutmeg 

1 cup brandy 

Separate egg yolks and white. Beat yolks until thick. Then add sugar and 
beat well. Slowly add brandy. Then add egg whites and ice cream. 


Sprinkle with nutmeg when serving. 
Mrs. T. B. Faulkner 








34 


CHEESE PUDDING Vane ede) 
ia _ Serves 6 to 8 people 
10 slices whitebread, ~— “SB bles. well beatened | Se hy fh 


remove crust | | 3 cups milk 
% stick margarine OAR 1 tsp. salt 
10 oz. sharp cheese, De ee i Dash of Worcestershire sauce 


Spread margarine on top of bread slices. Cut each slice into 1” square cubes. 
Place bread and grated cheese aternately in a 9x13x2” baking dish. 
Combine eggs, milk, salt, and Worcestershire sauce and pour over bread and 
cheese. Let stand overnight j in refrigerator. Bake uncovered at 75°F. for 1 ; 
hour and i minutes to 2 hours or until golden brown. | 

| ) Olivia Tanner 


CHEESE CLOUD 


Serves 6 
12 slices day-old white bread 1 Tbsp. grated onion | | 
% lb. cheddar cheese, sliced | MM tsp. salt 
(use bulk cheese, not enh spat Dash cayenne pepper 
4eggs Dash black pepper 
2% cups milk 1 tsp. seasoned salt 


I tsp. prepared yellow mustard 


Trim crusts from bread and arrange six sleet in bottom Bf a 12x8x2inch 
greased baking dish. Cover with cheese slices, then with remaining: bread 
slices. Beat eggs, add milk, mustard, onion, and seasonings. Pour over 
casserole and let stand at room temp. for 1 hour. This dish may be prepared 
the day before and refrigerated overnight if more convenient. Bake at 325° 
for 1 hour; serve immediately. No seconds. Great for a brunch. 


Mrs. C. A. Almand, ia i 


(Betsy neha 
EGGS GOLDENROD Oe 
| a : A Serves 4 
4 hard boiled eggs, : 4 pieces toaeied while bread 


grated or finely chopped © D2, COD s medium white sauce 
cup mild cheese, grated bite 4 


“White Salice 


3 Tbsp. soft butter or margarine _ Y% tsp. white pepper (optional) 
2 Tbsp. flour — ey re cups milk . 
% tsp. salt hia Me | 1h : 


Boil eggs, cool, peel, grate, set ede Grits cheese, set auite: Toast Geo 
while preparing sauce. Sauce preparations: Melt butter over medium heatin 
large saucepan. Stir in flour and seasoning, stirring with a whip until | 
smooth. Gradually stir in milk, stirring frequently until well blended and 
smooth. Close attention to stirring prevents scorching of sauce. Place toast 
on individual plates. Equally divide sauce and ladle over toast. Sprinkle — 
with egg and top with cheese. An i impressive breakfast treat when served — 
with crisp bacon slices and a slice of ripe tomato. | 

| ‘Mrs. William Hoyle Me 

_ (Linda Bishop) — 


35 


BAKED EGGS 
Serves 8 
% cup butter 2 cups milk 
1% cup flour | 1 lb, sharp cheese, grated 
% tsp. salt 8 eggs 


Over medium heat melt butter in saucepan. Stir in flour and salt until 
blended. Add milk gradually, stirring until smooth. Add cheese and stir 
until melted. Pour into 1% quart casserole. Break the eggs into the sauce. 
Bake at 350° until eggs are firm, approximately 15 minutes. 
| . Mrs. A. Gilmore Crumpler, Jr. 
(Gera Lu Shervette) 


MOCK SOUFFLE EGG CASSEROLE 
Serves 8 to 10 


1 Ib. sausage, scrambled 1 tsp. dry mustard 

6 eggs, beaten Dash Tabasco ' 
1 cup sharp cheese, grated Dash Worcestershire sauce 
2 cups milk 2 slices white bread, cubed 
1 tsp. salt . 


Layer sausage, bread cubes and pour egg mixture with seasonings over top 
in a greased casserole dish. Use long rectangular Pyrex casserole. Bake in 
350° oven for 40-45 minutes. This should be made the day before and refrig- 
erated overnight. Good served with frozen apples and English muffins. 

| Mrs. H. W. Whitley, Jr. 


‘SUNNYSIDE RICE AND EGGS 


Serves 6 
-Y% cup chopped onion Salt and pepper to taste 
% cup chopped green pepper 6 eggs 
1 Tbsp. butter or margarine . 2 Tbsp. grated Parmesan cheese 


2 cups cooked rice 


Saute onion and green pepper in butter until tender, but not brown. Add rice 
and seasonings. Cook until hot. Make 6 indentations with back of spoon. 
Break an egg into each indentation, Sprinkle with cheese. Cover and cook 
until eggs are of desired doneness. Serve with slices of broiled tomatoes if 
desired. Nn | 

ath | Mrs. William A. Wynne, Jr. 
(Jean Letellier) 





36 


EGG CASSEROLE 


| Nici _ Serves 6 
4 eggs ! % tsp. salt | ‘ | 
2 cups milk Pepper to taste 
2 cups sharp cheese, grated ‘tsp. dry mustard 
2 cups plain croutons | % tsp. onion salt 


In a greased 2 quart casserole, pour slightly beaten eggs, milk and 
seasoning. Fold in cheese and croutons and bake for 50-60 minutes at 350°. 
This is especially good served at a late breakfast with bacon or sausage and 
a sweet muffin. | tN) 


Ji ulia Powers 


EGG AND MEAT CASSEROLE 


6 eggs (one per person) 1 tsp. dry mustard 

6 slices decrusted bread, cubed 1 Ib. cooked sausage or 

1 cup cheddar cheese, shredded left-over ham _ 

2 cups milk Chopped onion and green 
1 tsp. salt pepper (optional) 


Mix and place in 2 quart casserole. Refrigerate 12 hours before cooking. 
Bake 40 to 60 minutes at 350°. i 


Mrs. Reid McAuley 


(Betty Robbins) 
v4 
CHEESE SOUFFLE : ie 
| eeu d: a Serves 4 
% ib. New York State | 1% cup hot milk 
sharp cheddar cheese, grated 1 tsp. salt — | 
4 Tbsp. butter Dash of cayenne 
4 Tbsp. flour _ 6 eggs, separated 


In top of double boiler, melt butter. Stir in flour and salt. When smooth add 
hot milk, stirring constantly. Turn off heat. Add grated cheese and egg 
yolks, beaten slightly. Add cayenne. Cool. Beat egg whites until stiff. Fold 
into cheese mixture. Pour into buttered casserole. Cook at 300° for one hour. 
Set casserole in pan of water to cook. The secret of any souffle is to set 
casserole in a pan of water while cooking — it will never fall! i 


Mrs. John M. MacRae 
(Mabel Scammell) 3 








38 


EASY HOMEMADE ROLLS 


‘Makes approximately 3 dozen party size rolls 


% cup Crisco 1 small pkg. of yeast 
1% cup sugar : 3 cups of plain flour 
1 egg % tsp. salt 


1 cup warm water 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add egg and '4 cup of warm water. Dissolve 
yeast in the other 2 cup of warm water and add to mixture. Then add flour 
and salt. After mixing place in covered bowl and chill overnight. Make out 
rolls 2 or 3 hours before time to cook. Bake at 400° for 15 minutes. You may | 
brush melted butter over top of rolls before baking. 


Mrs. L. M. Barnes, IT 
(Margaret Daughtridge) 


YORKSHIRE PUDDING 


% cup flour 2 eggs, well beaten 
% tsp. salt % cup water 
% eup milk Melted butter 


Sift flour and salt into bowl. Make a well in the center into which to pour 
milk. Stir in the milk and add eggs. To this batter add water. Beat well until 
large bubbles rise to surface. This batter may be made an hour ahead of 
baking time and placed in the refrigerator. Have ready hot muffin tins (12 
ring muffin tin) with each ring containing about '4 inch of melted butter or 
margarine. Pour in batter, which should be %inch high. Place tins on foil, as 
there will be a spillage of fat. Bake pudding in a hot oven, 400°, for about 20 
minutes. Reduce the heat to 350° and bake 10 to 15 minutes longer. Do not 
open oven door during the cooking time. Serve at once. 


Miss Frances Bradley | 


ORANGE MUFFINS : 
) Makes 18 muffins 
‘4 cup butter _ 4 cup orange juice , 
1/3 cup sugar ! | | _ Grated rind of 1 orange 
1 egg 12 cups cake flour, sifted with 
1, cup cream 2 tsp. baking powder 


Cream together butter and sugar. Add and beat well egg, cream, orange juice 
and grated orange rind. Then add cake flour and baking powder. diaeen, in 
greased muffin tins at 375° for 20 minutes. 


Mrs. Jack Chesson 
(Sylvia Simpson) 


BEER MUFFINS Oe 
| a : | Makes approximately 24 
3 cups Bisquick 10 oz. beer 
3 Thsp. sugar 


Mix well, put into well greased tine: Let rise minutes. Bake 425° until ) 
light brown. ) 


Sue E. Bracy 


39 


QUICK SPOON BREAD 


Serves 4 
2 eggs 1/3 cup corn meal 
1 cup buttermilk | 2 tsp. baking powder 
1 cup sweet milk %4 tsp. soda 
2 Tbsp. margarine i tsp. salt 


Mix together lightly beaten eggs, buttermilk and sweet milk. Melt 2 or 3 
Tbsp. butter or margarine in baking dish. Sift together meal, baking powder, 
soda and salt. Slowly mix dry ingredients in moist ingredients so that they 
do not lump. Bake 30 minutes at 400°. 

Mrs, Glyn Thomas 


SOUR CREAM CORNBREAD 
1 cup self-rising corn meal | 2 eggs, well beaten 
1 cup cream style corn % cup cooking oil 


1 cup sour cream 


Mix well. Pour into greased 8” baking dish or pan. Bake at 350° for 30 
minutes. 

Mrs. Benny C. Johnson 

(Joyce Maloney) 


FRIED CORN BREAD PATTIES FOR TWO 


% cup House’s self-rising corn meal Pinch of baking powder 
% Tbsp. sugar 


Mix ingredients, add cold water, slowly, to make a mixture of cement. Form 
with hands into patties and fry in corn oil, about %-inch oil — rather hot. 
Turn over patties when brown as desired, and brown on other side. May be 
turned more than once if not crisp enough. 
: Mrs. John G. Smith 

(Mary Lillian Wagner) 


BROWN TIGERS 


1 cup corn meal 1 scant tsp. baking soda 
i tsp. salt 1 egg, beaten 

i tsp. baking powder : 14 cup water 

1 cup buttermilk 


Put meal, salt and baking powder in mixing bowl. Add 4 cup of buttermilk 
into which you have stirred 1 scant teaspoon soda. Stir out lumps. Add egg 
and rest of buttermilk. Stir well, thin with water. Makes thin hot cakes. Fry 
on hot skillet. 
Mrs. B. O. Yelverton, Jr. 
(Joan Currie) 


40 


NEVER-FAIL HUSH PUPPIES | | : 
“Makes 3 oe ane 


1 cup corn meal i 1 Neue onion, chopped Cee 
1 cup flour | 142 cups water or milk 
1 tsp. salt yy | egg (optional) | 


4 tsp. baking powder 


Sift dry ingredients together. Add water, egg and onion. Blend. Dropatable- — 
spoonful into hot oil. (Do not overheat). Let brown. This works better if be 
mixed and refrigerated before cooking. | a 


Mrs. F. Stephen Moore 
(Marilyn Ward) | 


CLAM FRITTERS | ee 
Serves 4 to 6 
1 cup flour 1 Tbsp. Crisco shortening, melted 
% tsp. salt : 2 eggs, beaten 


% cup milk 1 cup minced clams, drained 
1 tsp. baking powder : 


Sift dry ingredients. Add eggs, melted shortening and milk and mix well. 
Add clams. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and brown on both sides. (Corn 
can be substituted for clams.) 
Mrs. DeWitt C. McCotter, HI 
(Denny Broadhurst) 


TENNESSEE PUMPKIN BREAD 


Makes one loaf. 


1-2/3 cup sifted regular flour 1/3 cup shortening 

4 tsp. baking powder 1-1/3 cups sugar 

1 tsp. baking soda 1% tsp. vanilla 

34 tsp. salt 2 eggs 

% tsp. cinnamon | 1 cup canned, mashed pumpkin 
% tsp. nutmeg 4% cup chopped walnuts or pecans 


Grease loaf pan (9x5x3) or two smaller ones. On wax paper sift together the 
flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg. In a> 
medium mixing bowl cream shortening, sugar and vanilla. Add eggs, one at 
a time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Stirin pumpkin. Stir in dry 
ingredients i in four parts. Fold in nuts. Turn batter into prepared pan or 
pans. Bake in preheated oven (350°) until cake tester comes out clean, 45 to — 
55 minutes. Turn out on wire rack right side up. Store in tight tin box orwrap 
tightly and store in refrigerator or freezer. 


Kate Parks Kitchin 


4] 


CRANBERRY-NUT BREAD 


2 cups self-rising flour _ | 1 Tbsp. grated orange rind (optional) 
1 cup sugar ) | 1 egg, well beaten 

% cup shortening % cup chopped nuts 

%4 cup orange juice i cup coarsley chopped cranberries 


Sift together flour, sugar. Cut in shortening until mixture resembles coarse 
cornmeal. Combine orange juice and rind with egg. Pour all at once into dry 
ingredients mixing enough just to dampen. Carefully fold in cranberries and 
nuts. Spoon into greased loaf pan. Spread corners and sides lightly. Bake at 
350° for one hour. ne | 

Mrs. George R. Wooten 

(Harvey Sharp) 


BANANA NUT BREAD 
le cup butter | 1% cups sugar 
2 eggs, well beaten : 1 tsp. vanilla 
2 cups cake flour, plain 1 tsp. salt | 
12 tsp. soda 4 Tbsp. buttermilk 
1 cup banana pulp  & cup chopped pecans 


about 2 bananas 


Sift together flour, salt and soda. Cream butter and sugar, add eggs and 
vanilla. Mix like butter cake, adding flour mixture alternately with milk and 
banana pulp. Bake at 350° about 1 hour in loaf pan. Stores and freezes 
beautifully. | 


Gene McCay 
Durham, N. C. 
APPLE BREAD 
1 cup shortening 4 cups flour 
2 cups sugar 4 cups finely chopped raw apples 
4 eggs 2 tsp. vanilla 
4 Tbsp. sour milk % tsp. salt 


2 tsp. soda in milk 


Cream shortening and sugar, add eggs, milk, then flour, apples, vanilla and 
salt. Pour into 2 large or 4 small loaf pans. 


Topping 
4 Tbsp. flour | 4 Tbsp. butter 
4 Tbsp. sugar 2 tsp. cinnamon 


Crumb together flour, sugar, butter and cinnamon and spread over loaves. 
Bake at 350° for one hour. 


Annette Peebles 


AZ 


BROWN BREAD 


| . ; Makes 5 #3 cans 
5 #3 cans (greased) 4 cups plain flour 
1 15-0z. box seedless dark raisins 1 tsp. salt 
2 cups water Hs | ah 1 tsp. cinnamon 
2 Tbsp. margarine 1 eup chopped pecans 
2 tsp. soda 2 Tbsp. applesauce 


2 cups sugar 5 cherries, cut up 
2 eggs, well beaten Hoey 


Mix and bring to a boil the raisins, water, margarine and soda. Set aside and — 
let cool. Add sugar and eggs. In a large bowl, sift flour with salt and © 
cinnamon. Add nuts and applesauce to raisin mixture. Gradually add flour 
and chopped cherries. Pour mixture into the 5 cans. Place on cookie sheet 
and bake at 350°F. for 45-50 minutes. It should feel solid when done. Letcool — 
in cans for 15 minutes. Rap on table top and it should come out easily. | 


Anne Townsend 


HERB CHEESE BREAD 
2 cups warm water 2 Thsp. soft butter (not margarine) 
2 pkgs. yeast % cup grated Parmesan cheese 
2 Tbsp. sugar 1% Thsp. oregano 
2 tsp. salt . 414 cups sifted plain fous 


Sprinkle yeast over water in large mixing bowl. Let stand briefly, then stir to 
dissolve. Add sugar, salt, butter, cheese, oregano and 3 cups flour. Blend at 
low speed, then beat 2 minutes at medium speed. With wooden spoon beatin _ 
remaining flour. Then cover bowl with waxed paper and a towel. Letrisein © 
warm spot 45 minutes. Preheat oven to 375°. Stir batter down and beat vigor- — 
ously 25 times. Turn into greased 112-2 quart baking dish and sprinkle with — 
extra cheese. Bake 55 minutes, until brown. Serve warm. . 


Mrs. DeWitt C. McCotter, TI 
(Denny Broadhurst) 


_ HERB-BUTTERED FRENCH BREAD 


1% tsp. snipped chives ' tsp. crushed chervil serait 
1% tsp. snipped parsley ae 4 Tbsp. soft margarine . 
tsp. crushed tarragon  — ) 8 slices French bread 


Mix together above ingredients. Spread on French bread slices. Place on | 
baking sheet and bake in moderate oven (350°) till lightly toasted, about 20 
minutes. Serve warm. — 
Mrs. Reid McAuley — 
(Betty Robbins) 


43 


FRENCH TOAST 
» eup milk | 4 tsp. cinnamon 
2 slightly beaten eggs % tsp. vanilla 
‘4 tap. salt 4 slices old bread 


Mix milk, eggs, salt, cinnamon and vanilla in bowl. Dip bread into mixture 
until well coated. Fry in frying pan until brown. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 


Mrs. Paul Karseras 


(Jane Diedrich) 
BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 
Serves or makes 12 muffins 
1% cups sifted all-purpose flour 1 egg, well beaten 
1/3 cup sugar % cup milk — 
22 tsp. baking powder 1/3 cup salad oil 
% tsp. salt %4 to 1 cup blueberries 


Sift dry ingredients. Combine egg, milk and oil. Add all at once to dry ingred- 
ients and stir gently and quickly — just until moistened. Fold in fresh or 
frozen blueberries thawed and well drained. Fill greased muffin pans 2/3 
full. Bake at 400° for 25 minutes. | 
More sugar may be added if a sweeter m*:‘fin is desired. Muffins can be made 
ahead and frozen. 

Mrs. Ed W. Vann 

(Emily Denton) 


DATE AND NOT LOAF 


| Makes two loaves 
% ib. candied cherries, chopped i cup flour 


% Ib. candied pineapple, chopped 1 tsp. baking powder 
1 lb. dates, chopped | 4 eggs, beaten 

i Ib. nuts (4 cups) chopped 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 cup sugar 1 tsp. salt 


Combine sugar, flour, baking powder, and salt. Add to chopped fruit and 
nuts. Combine vanilla with beaten eggs and pour over fruit mixture. Stir 
until mixed well. Grease 2 loaf pans; line bottoms with waxed paper and 
grease paper. Press mixture into pans and cook at 250° for about 1% hours. 
Remove from pans immediately and cool on racks. 

Mrs. Robert Pitt 


WALNUT BREAD 


3 cups Bisquick 1 egg, beaten 
34 cup sugar 1% cups milk 


3%, cup chopped nuts 


Mix Bisquick, sugar and chopped nuts together very thoroughly. Then beat 

egg and add this to milk. Stir this into dry ingredients thoroughly. Pour into 

greased loaf pan (9”x5’x3”) and bake in 350° oven for about 55 minutes. 
Priscilla Keel 


44. 


RAISIN BRAN MUFFINS | 
} i : | : Makes 5% dozen muffins 


1 15-oz. box Kellogg’s Raisin Bran cereal 2 tsp. salt 


3 cups sugar 4 eggs, beaten | a 
5 cups flour 1 cup melted butter or oleo — 
5 tsp. soda 2 cups raisins 


2 Tbsp. vanilla 2 cups chopped nuts (optional) 
1 quart buttermilk : 


Sift dry ingredients together and stir in raisin bran. Mix by hand in very 
large bowl. Mix eggs, melted butter, vanilla and buttermilk, and add to dry 
ingredients. Stir in raisins and nuts. Mix until all dry ingredients disappear — 
into batter. Fill well greased muffin pans or paper muffin cups 2/3 full. Bake 
at 400° for about 20 minutes or until golden brown and a straw inserted — 
comes out clean. Extra batter may be stored covered in refrigerator for 6 
weeks and used as needed; or baked and stored in freezer. 

Mrs. N. B. Dozier, Jr. 

(Robbie Walker) 


CORNMEAL MUFFINS ae ae 
Makes 12 — 
144 cups cornmeal %4 cup ali-purpose flour es 
4 cup sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 
4 tsp. baking powder 3 1 cup milk 
*4 tsp. salt 4 cup salad oil 


Mix dry ingredients together. Stir in eggs, milk and oil. Beat just until — 
smooth. Fill greased muffin pans 2/3 full. Bake at 425° for 20 minutes. 
Mrs. Ed. W. Vann 
(Emily Denton) — 
































ea iN 


fi 


When ue tober serve, BA 
ste heave immediately. 
Mrs. Jasper Cummings — 


Scere chop ict io bol um- 
n and bring oi 
ae Next add butter, 

| , at a time. Next sour 
HOpREHT Stir until blended. Is senet 
pped chives after pouring into indi- 





0. Elwood Mixon 


” 


| ONION SOUP AU GRATIN 

6 slices French or Italian bread 

% cup grated Parmesan cheese 

basil to taste (by tsp., not too much) — 
“pepper (freshly ground from peppermill) _ 


sauce pé n. Put in onion slices and cook until tender but 
ximately 20 minutes, on medium heat. Add beef broth, 
| e and a few grinds of pepper. Bring to boil, reduce heat 
ximately 5 minutes. Pour into 6 oven-proof bowls. Float a 
Fren: se or Italian bread in each bowl. (Prepare bread ahead of 
ig, spreading with a small amount of butter, then sprinkling 
Choe basil). Serve immediately. You may wish to top 
h a slice of Gruyere cheese and pop under broiler until slightly 
fay ean ceive occasion. I prepare a lot of bread slices ahead of 





Mrs. Donald R. Brown 
(Stephanie Sullivan) 


+ 


cee fae ee OY 


47 


CLAM CHOWDER I 


Serves 6 
% pound chopped bacon 3 diced potatoes 
4 average onions, chopped 3 diced carrots 
3 green peppers, chopped % tsp. salt 
3 cups water dash of pepper 


In large pot brown chopped bacon, then saute chopped onions and peppers. 
Add water, potatoes, carrots, salt and pepper. When almost done add 1 doz. 
chopped clams. When done add 2 Tbsp. flour; ‘4 cup milk and 2 Tbsp. butter. 
Sprinkle parsley over top. 

Mrs. E. L. Seigman 

(Ruth Correll) 


CLAM CHOWDER II 


Serves 6 cups of soup 


2 cups diced potatoes 1 cup clam juice 
1 cup diced onions 2 Tbsp. bacon drippings 
1 cup chopped clams (2 small cans) salt and pepper to taste 


2 cups tomato juice 


Barely cover with water. Add 2 cups tomato juice; 1 cup clam juice; 2 Tbsp. 
bacon drippings. Add salt and pepper to taste. Cook about 1% to 2 hrs. 
covered. Better on second day. 

Mrs. Erwin Thomas 

(Anne Love) 


HOMEMADE SOUP (FROM A CAN) 


Serves 6 
1 lb. boneless stew beef 2 celery sticks, chopped 
1 Tbsp. salt 1 can (16 oz.) small butterbeans, drained 
4 tsp. pepper 1 can (12 oz.) shoe peg corn, drained 
2 cans (16 oz.) tomatoes 1% onion, chopped 
8 cups water 1/3 cup elbow macaroni (optional) 


2 medium carrots, sliced 


Brown stew beef in small amount of hot oil in large kettle. Add water, cover, 
and cook slowly for 2 hrs. Skim fat from top of soup. Add vegetables, salt, 
and pepper and cook 30 min. more until vegetables are tender. This is deli- 
cious served with hush puppies on a cold day. It is excellent for freezing for 
use on a “busy” day. 

Mrs. Robert Chandler, Jr. 

(Betty Morton) 


A 











a 
aay 
ae 
aw 
om 


NN 
? 


iN ( - 


oe SS 
»\ WA vee 


Serves 6 









sa . ema arora eaten 
C olan Ve Sue hee: aro- 
Al tizer is dock Louphery 3 


se vay 


ne-pr , le, brown ground beef and onions. 
toe Pee eee ole, brown ground beet and onions. 
‘boil. Turn down heat and simmer for at least an 


oy oe ih The aah Mrs. Emerson Scarborough 
| ant, San Sunes Puerto Rico) i 
Serves 6 





1% tsp. 
: oregano gaan 
| ashen 


1 oz. white vinegar 
oil 1 cup rice (cooked) 
ak beans overnight in water. Pie teans: water‘and Salt iilate amet one 
90i1 several hrs. until beans are soft. Crush Crush garlic. . Heat oil in large pan and 
cook onions and peppers until brown. Add cumin, oregano, garlic and 
II egar and continue to ry slowly. Drain some water off beans then add to 
, ee ook slowly until ready to serve, at least 2 hrs. Cook rice and cool. Mari- 
it and onion separa ly in oil and vinegar to taste. These are passed 
with soup, Aare ero lke tangy soupspoon of each added to the soup. 
lly for who dishes, the BlackBean Soup is a meal in 
Heel when served a eld and hard rolls. . 


Mrs. Edward Curtis Daniel, Jr. 
(Martha Weeks) 











Poe iiecken Bey te cone te en elieoan test Cover witht me = mee 
con slices on top. Sprinkle with cheese and bake until cheese is bub- | 
j ; i i ene ei 


| Mr. George B Newby 
‘fancy Butler) ; ng oe 





(Nancy Butle 


CORNED BEEF HASH BURGERS | 
Makes 8 sandwiches 


1 15 oz. can corned beef hash — 8 onion rolls, split and toasted _ % 
EOE tein ors Sateen aoa 
1 tsp. prepared horseradish Lae tae cheng ee . 7 
Combine corned beef hash, sour cream, pickle relish, and horseradish. _ 
Spread about % cup mixture on bottom halves of rolls. Broil 3 to 4 in. from 
heat until hot, about 5 min. ee each with a tomato slice, then a cheese slice; 
broil just until cheese melts. Cover with tops of rolls. 

Mrs. Walter J. Early 

(Margaret MacDonald) 
















and 
We have Ceued pera ee 
: them in a foam cooler. They will _ 


shetty Add salt and mayon- 
r, adding to above mixture. Putin 
to use for parties at Christmas 


“Mrs. O. Pidioon Mixon oe 


PARTY SANDWICHES seh 

; bali ‘Makes 30 tiny sandwiches — 
ee A | 1 carton wou cream 
He ah eens eleee Sa eee Agee 

: _ 6 drops green food coleineun 


bene 
om oth 


- Ses i oes ee 


rolling pin. On each slice of bread putone_ 
. Mix sour cream, dry onion soup mix and 
of cheese. Roll up sandwiches and Pen p erie 
Slice each roll into about 5 pieces. é 








_ Mrs. Wilson Carter 
Lexington, N. C. 





51 


ORANGE DATE FOLD-UPS 


1s cup finely snipped dates 8 slices white bread 
A cup finely chopped walnuts butter or margarine, softened 
1/3 cup orange juice 


Combine dates, nuts, and orange juice; let stand about 20 minutes. Trim 
crusts from bread; spread slices with butter, then date mixture. Bring two Op- 
posite corners of each square together at center. Secure with toothpick. 
Garnish with watercress. 


Mrs. Walter J. Early 
(Margaret MacDonald) 


CORN CHOWDER 


Serves 4 
% cup sliced onions 1 can evaporated milk 
2 Tbsp. butter % can water 
1 can cream corn (if regular milk is used do not add water) 


1 can mushroom soup 


Saute onions lightly in butter. Add other ingredients and stir to heat. Salt 
and pepper to taste. 

Emily D. Bobbitt 

Web Hill Farm 

Rockbridge Baths, Virginia 


FRENCH ONION SOUP 


Serves 6 
6 %” slices of French bread 6 cups beef broth 
butter 1 cup dry sherry 
6 Tbsp. Parmesan cheese 1/3 cup grated Parmesan cheese 
5 cups thinly sliced onions 1/3 cup grated Gruyere cheese 
5 Tbsp. butter (Cheddar will do) 


1 tsp. each flour, salt, Dijon-style 
mustard, pepper 


Spread butter on French bread and sprinkle each slice with 1 Tbsp. 
Parmesan cheese. Toast the bread slowly and put aside to cool. I saute 
onions in butter for 30 min. until well browned. Stir in flour, salt, mustard, 
pepper and cook for 2 min. Pour in beef broth and sherry and cook over low 
heat, stirring until it boils. Simmer for 30 min. Transfer the soup to a heavy 
casserole dish(earthenware is great). Sprinkle with cheeses. Put casserole 
under preheated broiler for 3 to 4 min. for cheese to bubble. Put a slice of 
bread in each of the 6 bowls and divide the soup. 

Mrs. Frank Harrison 

(Josephine Vann) 





and sel enough mayonnaise to hold together. 
Store in tor in covered container. 






grated cheese and toast sandwiches in oven. 
| Mrs. eat ee Scarborough A 
(Lynn Wall) a ata 





54 


RANCH HOUSE CHEESE TOPPING 
(Ranch House Restaurant, Chapel Hill) 


Makes 8 generous servings 


1 carton cottage cheese 1 small onion, chopped 
1 cup sweet cream 1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. Accent 


2 Tbsp. paprika 
Combine ingredients and mix well. Serve generously over buttered baked 


potatoes. 
Mrs. Spruill Bunn 
(Betty Mraz) 


SOUR CREAM SAUCE 
Makes ¥% cup 


% cup dairy sour cream 1% tsp. sugar 
2 Tbsp. salad dressing 14 tsp. dry mustard 
2 tsp. chopped green onion dash salt 


1% tsp. lemon juice 


Combine above ingredients in a sauce pan. Heat mixture, stirring constant- 
ly but do not boil. Good with meats or vegetables! 

Mrs. Walter J. Early 

(Margaret MacDonald) 


PARMESAN CHEESE SAUCE 


Makes 1 cup 
1 Tbsp. butter or margarine dash pepper 
1 Thsp. flour 1 cup milk 
1% tsp. salt 2 Tbsp. grated Parmesan cheese 
dash paprika 2 Tbsp. toasted, slivered almonds 


dash dry mustard 


In sauce pan melt butter, stir in flour, salt, pepper, paprika and dry mustard. 
Add milk all at once. Cook and stir until sauce thickens and bubbles. Add 
cheese and almonds; stir the mixture until cheese melts. Serve over drained 
cooked vegetables. 7 

Mrs. Walter J. Early 

(Margaret MacDonald) 


SASS 


i—\ 1; )) 


ECON Ci, : 


55 


MUSHROOM SAUCE 


Serves 30 
1 stick margarine or butter dash pepper 
1 medium onion, diced fine dash salt 
1 qt. fresh or canned mushrooms, sliced dash Kitchen Bouquet 
1 cup flour burgundy (to taste) 


1% qts. beef stock (heated) 


Sauté onions and mushrooms in butter until onion is cooked. Add to sauce 
one cup flour and cook over low heat about 10 minutes. Add 1% qts. of hot 
beef stock and stir to mix or until well blended. Cook 15 to 20 minutes. Add 
burgundy to taste and season with salt and pepper. If color is not suitable, 
add a dash or two of Kitchen Bouquet. 
Benvenue Country Club 


BLENDER MAYONNAISE 


1 whole egg 2 Tbsp. vinegar 
12 tsp. dry mustard 1 cup Wesson Oil 
1 tsp. salt 


Into container of blender put the egg, mustard, vinegar and 4 cup oil. Cover 
container, and flick motor on and off quickly. Remove container, turn motor 
on high and immediately add the remaining oil in a steady stream. Whole 
procedure doesn’t take more than 30 seconds. ~ 

Mrs. Thomas Bayton Suiter, Jr. 


BARBECUE SAUCE FOR BEEF RIBS 


4 to 5 lbs. beef ribs, browned 1 cup warm water é 
1 cup vinegar 1 envelope Lipton onion soup mix 


1 cup catsup 3 Tbsp. margarine 


Brown beef ribs. Place in casserole. Mix together vinegar, catsup, water and 
onion soup mix. Pour over beef ribs and bake uncovered at 300° for 2’ to 3 
hours. 

Mrs. W. A. Wynne, Jr. 

(Jean Letellier) 


CHICKEN BARBECUE SAUCE 
Makes 1% cups 
14 tsp. cayenne pepper 
% cup water 1 thick lemon slice 
2 Tbsp. sugar 1 sliced, peeled onion 


1 Tbsp. prepared mustard 14 cup margarine 

% tsp. pepper % cup catsup 

1% tsp. salt 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

Mix first ten ingredients. Simmer for 20 minutes, uncovered. Add other 

ingredients. Bring to a boil. Use to baste chicken, or pour over chicken. 
Mrs. G. Daniel Knight, Jr. 
(Norma Pittard) 


14 cup vinegar 


56 


HOT BARBECUE SAUCE 
(For Spareribs, pork chops) 
Makes 6 cups 


1% cup water 2 cups chopped onion 

2 tsp. Tabasco sauce 2 garlic cloves, minced (or sprinkle garlic salt) 
2% cups bottled chili sauce 1 Tbsp. brown sugar 

1 tsp. chili peppers, minced 1 bay leaf crumbled 

3%4 cup oil 1 tsp. dry mustard 

% cup lemon juice 1 tsp. salt 


2 Tbsp. tarragon vinegar 


Combine ingredients with % cup water. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat and sim- 

mer 15 minutes. Sauce may be kept in refrigerator at least one week. Baste on 

spareribs while cooking on grill or on pork chops while baking in oven. 
Mrs. G. Daniel Knight, Jr. 
(Norma Pittard) 


QUICK SPAGHETTI SAUCE WITH BEEF 


Serves 6 
2 lbs. ground chuck 2 15-oz. cans of tomato sauce 
1 medium green pepper 2 Tbsp. chili powder 
1 medium onion 2 Tbsp. salt 


Chop green pepper and onion fine. Boil until done, about 20 minutes, in 
sauce pan with water. While pepper and onions are cooking, brown ground 
chuck in large frying pan. After meat is done, drain peppers and onions, add 
to meat, add tomato sauce, chili powder and salt. Simmer for 20 minutes or 
until thickened, at medium heat. Serve over noodles. 

Mrs. Bill Kincheloe 

(Marty Purvis) 


GOLD SPAGHETTI SAUCE 


Serves 4 
1 lb. ground beef 1 small can mushrooms 
1% onions 12 tsp. black pepper 
144 green peppers % tsp. garlic salt 
4 cloves garlic % tsp. onion salt 
4 cup oil % tsp. chili powder 
1 can tomatoes 14 tsp. ground red pepper 
1 cup tomato catsup 1 tsp. sugar 
1 cup port wine 10 dashes Texas hot sauce 


Sauté onions, green pepper, garlic (all minced) in oil. Add ground beef and 
cook, stirring until red color disappears. Add tomatoes, wine, and 
seasonings. Let cook gently 30 minutes or longer. Add mushrooms and their 
liquor. Pour over hot spaghetti. 

Dr. Ben M. Gold 


57 


COCKTAIL SAUCE 


1 cup chili sauce or catsup 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
3 tsp. prepared horseradish Dash Tabasco sauce 
2 tsp. lemon juice 


Mix all ingredients together. 
. Mrs. Vincent Andraccio 


(Sylvia Boykin) 


LEMON SAUCE 


Makes large amount to serve over plain cake 


1 Tbsp. cornstarch 2 eggs, beaten 

1 Tbsp. flour 2/3 cup lemon juice 
1 cup plus 2 Tbsp. sugar 2 cups hot water 
Pinch salt 1 Tbsp. margarine 


Mix dry ingredients. Add eggs. Add remaining ingredients. Mix well. Cook 
over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture coats spoon. It will take 


20 or 25 minutes on medium heat. 
Mrs. Paul Morgan, Jr. 


Raleigh, N. C. 


CHOCOLATE SAUCE 


4 oz. unsweetened chocolate 1 can evaporated sweetened condensed 
(4 squares) milk (Eagle Brand) 
3%, cup water 4 tsp. salt 


% tsp. vanilla 


Cook milk and chocolate about 10 minutes adding water gradually until 
smooth. Add salt. Add vanilla when cool. 
Mrs. Dillon Rose 
(Katie Ellison) 








58 


STEAK MARINADE 


1 Tbsp. real lemon juice Dash ground ginger — 
% cup soy sauce 1 tsp. sugar 

(Kikkoman sauce only) % clove garlic, crushed 
1% tsp. Worcestershire sauce _ 2 Tbsp. Segram’s 7 


Mix. Let stand 10 minutes. Marinate steaks 4-5 hours, turning a couple of 
times. 

Mrs. David Jay 

(Susan Klitzner) 


FLANK STEAK MARINADE 


1 large onion, minced 1 tsp. pepper 
1 clove garlic, crushed 1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 


2 Tbsp. vinegar 1 flank steak 
2 Tbsp. mustard Meat tenderizer 


1 tsp. salt 


Mix all ingredients together. Tenderize one flank steak with instant 
tenderizer. Spread marinade over both sides of meat and let it marinate at 
least 4 hours. Grill steak as usual. Slice in thin diagonal slices. 

Mrs. Sam Douglas, Jr. 

(Gail Barksdale) 


HAWAIIAN MARINATING SAUCE FOR 
STEAKS AND PORK CHOPS 


1 cup soy sauce 1 Tbsp. honey 
1 Thsp. salad oil % cup dry white wine 


1 clove garlic, finely chopped (or wine vinegar) 
1 Thsp. dry ginger 
(or 1 Tbsp. fresh ginger) 
Mix all ingredients well and let meat marinate one or several hours. Broil 
meat basting occasionally with sauce. 
Mrs. Theo Pitt, Jr. 
(Molly Browning) 


59 


BARBEQUE SAUCE FOR CHICKEN 


Ye stick margarine per chicken 1 cup vinegar per chicken 
2 tsp. crushed red pepper % cup water per chicken 


Melt margerine in sauce pan and add red pepper. Add vinegar and water. Let 
simmer a few minutes and pour over chicken, or anything you want to 
barbeque. Simple and easy! Great for charcoaling. 

Mrs. Steve Wright 

(Mary Jeffress) 


BARBEQUE SAUCE 
Makes 3 quarts 


4 14-0z. size bottles catsup 2 14 oz.-bottles onion salt 
3 5-0z. bottles Worcestershire sauce % lb. butter 

16 oz. tomato juice 1 Tbsp. pepper 

2 Tbsp. Texas Pete 1 cup vinegar 

1% 1% oz.-bottles garlic powder 1 Tbsp. sugar 


Melt butter and let brown with onion salt and garlic powder. Add all other 
ingredients. Simmer 30 minutes. Will save indefinitely. 

Mrs. Robert Tuttle 

(Beth Keel) 


BARBECUE SAUCE 
(Especially good for spare ribs) 


2 cups catsup 2 cups vinegar 

1% medium onion, finely grated 1 stick butter 

2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce % to 1 tsp. crushed red pepper 
1 tsp. salt 2 Tbsp. prepared mustard 

% tsp. sugar 1% tsp. celery seed 


Mix catsup and mustard, then mix in vinegar and other ingredients. 
Simmer for one hour until onion cooks away. Cook meat while sauce is 
simmering, basting meat with basting sauce of vinegar, butter, red pepper 
and salt. Apply barbecue sauce only for last 15 minutes of cooking to avoid 
external browning. 

Bill Kincheloe 


MEAT FONDUE SAUCE 
TOMATO SAUCE 


1 8-oz. can tomato sauce 2 Tbsp. vegetable oil 
1 small bottle A-1 sauce 2 Tbsp. brown sugar 


Mix all ingredients together and bring to boil. Keep warm. 
Mrs. Ronald Mucci 
(Gaye Pitt) 


60 


SPAGHETTI SAUCE 


3 cloves garlic 1 tsp. thyme 
3 large Bermuda onions 1 tsp. parsley flakes 
1 cup Wesson oil plus 1% tsp. sage 
a little bacon grease Few celery seeds 
2 cans whole tomatoes ' 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
2 cans tomato paste % tsp. sugar 
2 cans water % tsp. red pepper 
1 or more cans chopped mushrooms 1 tsp. paprika 
2 or more tsp. salt Few black olives, chopped (optional) 
1 tsp. black pepper 2 lbs. ground meat 
1 bay leaf 


Chop fine cloves, onions. Brown in Wesson oil plus bacon grease. Add 
tomatoes, tomato paste, water, mushrooms, salt, black pepper, bay leaf, 
thyme, parsley flakes, sage, celery seed, Worcestershire sauce, sugar, red 
pepper, paprika and black olives. Brown 2 lbs. of ground meat with bacon 
grease. Add to mixture. Simmer and stir for about 3 hours or until thick 
enough. 

Lee Gravely 


MEAT SAUCE FOR SPAGHETTI 


Serves 6 
% cup onion slices" 1%, cup chopped parsley 
2 Tbsp. olive oil 1% tsp. oregano 
1 lb. ground beef 1 tsp. salt 
2 cloves garlic, minced % tsp. monosodium gultamate 
2 1-lb. cans tomatoes 14 tsp. thyme 
2 8-oz. cans seasoned tomato sauce 1 cup water 


1 3-oz. can mushrooms 


Cook onion in hot oil until golden. Add meat and garlic, brown lightly. Add 
remaining ingredients; simmer uncovered 2-2'4 hours until sauce thickens. 
Serve on hot spaghetti. 

Mrs. John E. Warren 

(Vivian Williams) 








62 


APRICOT CASSEROLE 
Serves 6 
18 Ritz crackers, crushed up 34 stick butter or margarine 
34 cup brown sugar 1 can apricots (drain) 


Mix ingredients together. Cover. Bake at 350° for 45 minutes. 
Mrs. Dixon Tilley 


(Sylvia Bell) 
APRICOT APPLESAUCE 
1 cup dried apricots 2 cups canned applesauce 
1 lemon cut into thin slices water as needed 


or substitute 2 Tbsp. Realemon 


In pan combine apricots and lemon slices (or juice). Add water to cover. 
Bring to boil, reduce heat, and simmer until apricots are tender. Add apple- 
sauce and blend. Add sugar to taste and reheat until bubbly. Serve hot. 
Mrs. John Hammond 
(Anna Spruill) 


BAKED APPLES 


2 baking apples 2 Tbsp. chopped almonds 
(peeled about 1/3 of the good pinch of cinnamon 
way down) butter 


‘4 cup sugar 


Core 2 baking apples and peel about 1/3 of the way down. Set them upright 
in asmall baking dish. Mix sugar, almonds and cinnamon. Divide this mix- 
ture and fill cavities in apples. Put slice of butter on each. Add 4 inch boiling 
water to pan and bake in a preheated 400° oven for 30 minutes or until ten- 
der, basting several times during the baking, with liquid in the pan. Serve 
warm or chilled with cream. 

Mrs. Reid McAuley 

(Betty Robbins) 


HOT SPICED FRUIT 
(For Haters of Curry) 


1 16-0z. can cling peaches 1 Tbsp. lemon juice 

3 cinnamon sticks 1 lime (grate peeling) 

3 whole cloves 1 16-0z. can pears (drained) 

‘4 tsp. nutmeg 1 16-0z. can apricot halves (drained) 

'’ cup light brown sugar 1 16-o0z. can pineapple chunks (drained) 


In sauce pan combine liquid from peaches, cinnamon sticks, cloves, nutmeg, 
sugar, and lemon juice. Bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer uncovered for 
5 minutes. Add grated peeling from 1 lime. Add remaining fruit. Let stand 
over low heat at least 15 minutes. Serve hot. Good with game, grits, and a 
green vegetable. Can be poured over ice cream for dessert. 

Mrs. Wardlaw Lamar 

(Susan Keel) 


63 


CURRIED FRUIT CASSEROLE 


Serves 6 
1 20-o0z. can pineapple % cup melted butter 
1 29-o0z. can pears 34 cup brown sugar 
1 29-oz. can peaches 4 tsp. curry powder 


1 20-o0z. can apricots 


Place drained fruit into large casserole dish. Mix butter, sugar, and curry 
powder together and pour over fruit. Bake in a 370° oven for 1 hour. Delicious 
with turkey or chicken. 

Mrs. Myles Gaythwaite 

(Biddie Davenport) 


YOGURT 


lqt. milk | Any flavor fruit preserves 
14 cup plain commercial yogurt 
for starter 

Pour milk into pan with lid. Heat to 180° using candy thermometer, stirring 
constantly. Remove from heat and cool to 110°, stirring occasionally. Stir in 
Y% cup commercial yogurt. Put lid on, wrap pan with towels. Place in warm 
oven for 6 hours. When jelled, remove wrapping and refrigerate without 
shaking. When serving use 1 Tbsp. favorite preserves for flavor, for each 
dish. Save last 4 cup to make new batch of yogurt. This may be made in 
larger quantities. 

Mrs. John Hammond 

(Anna Spruill) 


PINEAPPLE DRESSING 
Serves 6 


% cup butter 
1 cup sugar 1 1-lb. 4-0z.-can pineapple, crushed, drained 


4 eggs 5 slices dry white bread, crumbled 


Cream butter, sugar. Beat in eggs one at a time. Stir in pineapple, bread 
crumbs. Pour into greased 14 quart casserole dish. Bake, uncovered, 1 hour 
at 350°. Serve with ham, pork chops. 

Mrs. Ed Moore 

(Peggie Thigpen) 


SPICED PINEAPPLE BITS 


1 1 Ib., 4 oz.-can pineapple chunks Dash of salt 
1/3 cup vinegar ; % tsp. whole allspice 
1 tsp. whole cloves 2 small sticks of cinnamon 


2/3 cup sugar 


Drain pineapple and put syrup in saucepan. Place pineapple chunks in 
quart jar. Add remaining ingredients to syrup and bring to a boil. Reduce 
heat and simmer about 10 minutes. Pour hot syrup over pineapple, cool and 
refrigerate. Serve with pork or as an hors d’oeuvres. Keeps indefinitely in 


refrigerator. 
Justine Daughtridge 


64 


STUFFED ARTICHOKE HEARTS 


1 can artichoke hearts, drained 1 cup grated Parmesan cheese 
% stick butter (soft) paprika 
1 clove garlic 


Cream butter and add clove of crushed garlic. To this add Parmesan cheese. 
Cut artichokes into quarters and place butter mixture on top. Mash down in- 
to the artichokes. Put in a buttered dish and sprinkle paprika on top. Bake at 
350° until brown. 

Mrs. Larry Diedrich 


(Hannah Bell) 
ARTICHOKE CASSEROLE 
Serves 4 
1 can artichoke hearts 1 can mushroom soup 
(drain and slice in halves) (diluted with 4 cup milk) 
3 hard cooked eggs (sliced) 1% cup sharp cheese, grated 
% cup olives (sliced) 1% cup buttered bread crumbs 


1 can water chestnuts (sliced) 


Arrange artichoke hearts in casserole, add layer of eggs, layer of olives, 
layer of chestnuts. Cover with soup. Top with grated cheese and buttered 
pe taa Bake at 350° until bubbly hot and crumbs are brown. Can be made 
ahead. 
Mrs. Alexander Thorpe III 
(Annie Gray Calhoun) 


ARTICHOKE AND FRESH MUSHROOM CASSEROLE 


Serves 8 
3 cans artichoke hearts salt and garlic salt to taste 
2 lbs. fresh, sliced mushrooms Parmesan cheese 
1 pt. half and half cream lemon juice 


Sauté fresh mushrooms gently in butter. Pour off half of remaining liquid. 
Season mushrooms with juice of one lemon and remaining seasonings. Line 
rectangular pyrex casserole with butter and artichoke hearts. Pour mush- 
room mixture over the top and add cream. Sprinkle all generously with 
Parmesan cheese. Cook in 350° oven until hot—about 30 minutes. May be 
made the day before. I 

Martha L. Whitley 


65 


SPINACH & ARTICHOKE CASSEROLE 


Serves 6 
2 10-oz. pkgs. frozen spinach, chopped 1 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese, softened 
1 pkg. frozen artichokes 1 tsp. lemon juice 
4% cup butter, melted cracker crumbs 


Cook spinach and artichokes according to package directions. Drain well. 
To spinach add butter, cream cheese and lemon juice. Blend well. Place arti- 
chokes in bottom of casserole which has been greased. Add spinach mix- 
ture. Top with cracker crumbs and dot with butter. Bake in preheated 350° 
oven for 25 minutes. 

Mrs. John W. Hines 

Atlanta, Georgia 


HOT PICKLED VEGETABLES 
. Makes 8-10 pints 


Raw carrots, bell peppers, 1 cup salt 
celery, green tomatoes, okra, 1/3 tsp. dill per jar 
cauliflower 1 clove garlic per jar 

1 quart vinegar — 2 or 3 hot peppers per jar 


2 quarts water 


Combine and bring to a good boil, vinegar, water and salt. Have raw vege- 
tables washed and cut into strips or small pieces. Put into sterile pint jars 
with dill, garlic and hot peppers in each jar. Pour vinegar mixture over vege- 
tables and seal. Leave up at least 30 days. Chill and serve. Great with cock- 
tails. 

Mrs. W. B. McCrary 

(Mary Janice Lacy) 


PICKLED CARROTS 


6-8 carrots °%4 cup sugar 
1 cup vinegar 1 Tbsp. mustard seed 
1 cup water % tsp. dill weed seed 


Cook sliced carrots in salted water 10-15 minutes. Heat other ingredients. 
Add carrots. Cook 5 minutes. Put in jars. 

Mrs. Spruill Bunn 

(Betty Mraz) 


BAKED WILD RICE 
Serves 12 


2 cups uncooked wild rice ~ 12 stuffed olives 
1 #2 can tomatoes 2 large cans whole mushrooms 


1 tsp. butter Salt and pepper to taste 
% Ib. sharp cheese, grated 
Rub a 9x13 baking dish with butter. Add all ingredients and mix well. Cook 
in 350° oven for 1% hours. If desired, put extra cheese on top and brown. 
Mrs. Joe Warner 
(Lynda Faulkner) 


66 


WILD RICE CASSEROLE 


Serves 8 


4 strips bacon 1 can cream of mushroom soup 
% cup chopped onions % cup dry white wine 
14 cup chopped green pepper % cup coarsley chopped ripe olives 
i lb. fresh mushrooms, sliced 1 tsp. celery salt 
2 Tbsp. butter, melted 1 cup wild rice 
1 cup canned tomatoes, crushed 
Fry bacon until crisp. Remove from skillet. Fry onions, green pepper and 
mushrooms in drippings for 5 minutes. Place in a 2 quart casserole and mix 
in all other ingredients. Cover and bake at 325° for 2 hours. 

Mrs. W. P. Holding 


(Peggy Vick) 


RICE CASSEROLE 


Serves 4 


1 can water chestnuts, 


1 can onion soup 

1 can water drained and slivered 

1 cup rice 1 small can mushrooms, 
drained 


6 Thsp. butter 


Combine soup, water, rice, and butter in a sauce pan. Bring it to a boil. 

Simmer 3 minutes. Pour into a casserole dish and sprinkle mushrooms and 

water chestnuts on top. Cover and bake in a 350° oven for 45 minutes. 
Mrs. L. Ernest Bridgers, Jr. 
(Marie Pearson) 


ST. PAUL’S RICE 


Serves 6 


2 envelopes chicken noodle soup 
1 cup raw rice 

4% cups water 

% cup almonds, slivered 


1 lb. hot pork sausage meat 

1 large green pepper, chopped 
1 large onion, chopped 

1 stalk celery, chopped 


Toss and brown hot pork sausage meat, drain on paper towel. Pour off 
grease. In same pan tenderize green pepper, onion and celery. Boil chicken 
noodle soup for 7 minutes according to directions. Mix all ingredients in 
a casserole, add slivered almonds and bake at 350° for 1 hour. 

Mrs. P. S. Jones 

(Sara Parrish) 


67 


SOUTH CAROLINA RED RICE 


14 tsp. black pepper 

1 tsp. salt 

1 tsp. sugar 

Dash of hot sauce (Texas Pete) 


1 cup raw rice 

1 small onion, chopped 
1% cup tomato juice 

4 Tbsp. bacon drippings 


Place onions in bacon drippings and cook a few minutes until slightly 
tender. Combine with rest of ingredients and place in a rice steamer on top of 
double boiler over hot water. Cook about 1 hour. Stir with fork once or twice. 


A good change for rice, and grand with sausage or pork. 
| Mrs. Thomas Bayton Suiter, Jr. 


RICE SOUFFLE 


Serves 6 


3 eggs, separated 
2 Tbsp. margarine 
¥% tsp. salt 


1 cup cold cooked rice 

% lb. grated cheddar cheese 
% cup milk 

Separate yolks, beat until foamy. Beat whites until stiff. Add yolks to cold 
rice. Stir in milk, butter and grated cheese. Fold in beaten whites and salt. 
Bake in greased pan 30 to 45 minutes at 300° until brown on top. Freeze 
after baking. 
Mrs. Neal Adkins 
(Mary Schonberger) 


FRIED CABBAGE 


Serves 4 


Salt to taste 


1 small cabbage 
1 Tbsp. bacon grease 


1 tsp. sugar 


Shred cabbage in frying pan. Add other ingredients and simmer in pan stir- 
ring occasionally. Do not overcook! Takes only 15 minutes. 
Mrs. W. M. Marshburn 


(Patsy Wiley) 


UNCOVERED MACARONI AND CHEESE 


Serves 6 


2 cups raw macaroni Dash cayenne pepper 
14 cup butter ‘ 2 cups milk 
14 cup all purpose flour 2 cups shredded cheese, sharp 
Dash salt and pepper 
Boil macaroni and salt for 15 minutes. Drain. Melt butter, add flour, then 
milk and seasoning. Finally add cheese and macaroni. Stir together into 
casserole and bake in oven at 375° for 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Paul Karseras 

(Jane Diedrich) 


68 


MACARONI AND CHEESE 


Serves 8 
1 7-oz. pkg. of elbow %4 tsp. salt 
macaroni (1%4 cups) Dash black pepper and paprika 
2 cups cottage cheese 8 oz. sharp cheddar 
1 cup sour cream | cheese, shredded (2 cups) 
1 egg 


Cook macaroni as directed on package. Mix all other ingredients together 
and add to drained macaroni. Bake at 350° for 45 minutes. May be frozen 
before baked. 

Mrs. Sam Douglas 

(Gail Barksdale) 


BAKED POTATOES 


Serves 6 


1 stick margarine 6 potatoes 
1 pkg. Lipton onion soup 


Melt margarine, add soup. Split potatoes 4 ways, place in heavy foil. Pour 
margarine and soup inside. Wrap tightly. Bake 45 minutes to 1 hour at 400°. 


Mrs. Randy Anderson 
(Harriet Spruill) 


SAVORY BAKED POTATOES 


Serves 6 
6 medium-size baking potatoes 1 envelope (14 oz.) beef-flavor 
% cup margarine Lipton mushroom soup mix 
34 to 1 cup milk % cup chopped parsley 


Heat oven to 400°. Scrub potatoes, dry. Grease potatoes; prick with fork. 
Place in shallow pan. Bake one hour or until potatoes are tender when tested 
with a fork. Melt margarine in saucepan over low heat. Stir in milk. Remove 
from heat. Add mushroom mix. Cut 2” slice from top of each potato; scoop 
out pulp into large bowl. Reserve shells. Mash pulp; beat in butter mixture. 
Add more milk if needed to make mixture smooth and fluffy. Stirin parsley. 
Fill reserved shells, mounding slightly. Return potatoes to oven and bake 
until heated through. 
Mrs. Reid McAuley 


(Betty Robbins) 
ALLIGATOR POTATOES 
1 large baking potato for each person Salt and pepper 
1 large onion for each person Water (preferably from Alligator River) 
% stick butter for each potato Foil 


Clean and slice potatoes and onions longitudinally. Alternate slices of onion 

and potatoes. Place on large square of foil. Add salt, pepper, and butter. 

Sprinkle 1 ounce of water. Seal foil pouch. Place in 350° oven for 112 hours. 
Wardlaw Lamar 


69 


INDIVIDUAL POTATOES 
Serves 4 
3 large baking potatoes 4 cup crumbled bacon (optional) 
1 large or 2 small onions Salt and pepper 
4 cup grated cheese 4 large pieces tin foil 


2 Tbsp. butter or margarine 


Dice potatoes and onion. Divide 4 ways onto tin foil. Add butter, cheese, 
bacon, salt and pepper. Close and bake for approximately 45 minutes at 


300°, 
Frankie J. Harlow 
(Frankie Joyner) 
PREPARE AHEAD STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 
| Serves 4 
4 medium baking potatoes 1 tsp. salt 
4 Tbsp. butter or margarine ¥ tsp. pepper 
(room temperature soft) % cup grated cheese 
% cup milk ' Paprika 


Wash potatoes, dry and place in 425° oven for 50 minutes. Cut a thin length- 
wise slice from top of each potato, scoop out pulp. Mash potato pulp well. 
Add butter, milk, salt and pepper. Spoon back into potato shells. Scatter a 
tablespoon cheese on top, then sprinkle with paprika. Can freeze or keep 
overnight. About hour before serving put in oven at 350°. Bake until hot 
through and tops are brown and crusty. VARIATIONS: Sprinkle top with 
bacon crumbs. Also, you can add 1 tablespoon grated onion to pulp. If using 
large potatoes you will need more milk. 

Mrs. Theo Pitt 

(Molly Browning) 





70 


SWEET POTATO SOUFFLE I 
Serves 6 to 8 


4 cups mashed sweet potatoes \% tsp. salt 
% cup margarine, melted 1 cup miniature marshmallows 
14 cup orange juice 


Preheat oven to 350°. Combine sweet potatoes, melted margarine, orange 
juice and salt. Fold in one cup marshmallows. Place in casserole. Cook 20 
minutes at 350°. Cover with additional marshmallows and return to oven 
until browned. This is good! 

Mrs. Sam Toler, Jr. 

(Charlotte Wilkinson) 


SWEET POTATO SOUFFLE II 


Serves 35 
3 tall cans yams (mash and whip) 14 tsp. allspice 
34 cup light brown sugar 1 stick butter 
1 tsp. salt 1 large can crushed pineapple 
1 tsp. cinnamon 4 eggs 
% tsp. cloves Miniature marshmallows 


Beat all ingredients together except marshmallows. Grease baking dish 
with margarine. Put 4 mixture in dish. Cover with marshmallows. Add rest 
of mixture. Bake 40 minutes at 375°. Remove from oven and sprinkle top 
with marshmallows. Return to oven and bake till marshmallows are lightly 
browned. 

Gail Ayers 


OLD SOUTH GRATED SWEET POTATO PUDDING 


Makes 6 servings 


2 cups raw grated sweet potatoes % tsp. cloves 
1 cup sugar 1% tsp. allspice 
1 cup sweet milk % tsp. salt 

14 cup melted butter 2 eggs 


1% tsp. cinnamon 


Mix all ingredients, adding beaten eggs last. Pour into greased baking dish. 
Bake in moderate oven 350° for % hour. 

Mrs. Roy Phipps 

(Eugenia Hardy) 


71 


SWEET POTATO CASSEROLE 


Serves 10 

2-3 cups sweet potatoes, cooked 4 tsp. salt 

and mixed with mixer 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 cup sugar, granulated 4 tsp. nutmeg 
2 stick melted butter or 1 cup sweet milk 

margarine ¥g tsp. cinnamon 
2 eggs 

Topping 


*4 cup brown suggar 
Butter _ 
Chopped pecans 
Preheat oven 350°. Mix ingredients until smooth and well blended. Pour into 
casserole dish and top with brown sugar dotted with butter and chopped 
pecans. Bake for 30 minutes. Alternate Topping: Marshmallows placed 
on final 5 minutes. 

Mrs. Robert Chandler, Jr. 

(Betty Morton) 


BAKED GRITS WITH CHEESE I 
Serves 6 to 8 


1 cup grits 
1 pound grated cheese 
2 sticks butter or margarine 
Cook grits according to directions. Add butter and stir until butter is melted 
and mixed well. Pour this mixture into a buttered casserole and sprinkle 
grated cheese on top. Bake in preheated 350° oven until cheese is melted and 
flecked with brown spots. Delicious with red-eye gravy. 

Mrs. J. Michael Evans 

(Pam Daniel) 


BAKED GRITS WITH CHEESE II 


Serves 8 


1 cup grits cooked according 1 cup milk 
to directions on pkg. 1 tsp. Worcestershire (optional) 


4 eggs 1 stick butter 

% cup grated sharp cheese 

Black pepper to taste 

Cook grits according to directions on package. Cool slightly, and add the 
eggs, cheese, black pepper, milk Worcestershire and butter. Mix thoroughly, 
and pour in buttered baking dish, reserving enough cheese to sprinkle on 
top. Bake about 1 hour at 350°. 
Mrs. Leon J. Yelverton 
(Nancy Gamble) 


V2 


GARLIC GRITS 


Serves § 


1 cup grits 1 egg 
1 stick margarine 1 cup milk 
1 roll garlic cheese 

(found in dairy case) 


Cook grits as directed on package. To grits add margarine and roll of garlic 
cheese. Break egg into measuring cup, beat egg and fill with milk to one cup 


mark. Stir all together and pour into greased casserole. Bake at 350° for 45 
minutes or until grits are well set. Good with any meat. 


Ginger Gardner 


PARTY NOODLES (FOR A CROWD) 


Serves 12 
% lb. sliced bacon 2 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 lb. vermicelli (thin spaghetti) Dash of Tabasco 
3 cups cottage cheese 4 tsp. salt 
3 cups sour cream 3 Tbsp. prepared horseradish 
2 garlic cloves, crushed 1 cup grated Parmesan cheese 


2 onions, minced 


Fry, drain and crumble bacon. Cook noodles five minutes and drain well. 
Mix other ingredients (except Parmesan) in a large bowl, then add noodles 
and bacon and toss with two forks until well mixed. Bake in large (3'2 quart), 
deep buttered casserole (covered) for 30-40 minutes at 350°. Remove cover, 
sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and broil till golden. Serve with sour cream 
and Te Parmesan. Great replacement for potatoes with roast beef or 
steak. 


Mrs. DeWitt C. McCotter III 
(Denny Broadhurst) 


MARINATED CARROTS 
Serves 8 to 10 


2 lbs. sliced cooked carrots 1 tsp. dry mustard 
or canned carrots 1 tsp. salt 
1 medium onion, sliced in rings 1% cup salad oil 
1 medium bell pepper, sliced in rings 34 cup white vinegar 
1 can tomato soup 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 cup sugar 1 tsp. pepper 


If using fresh carrots, cook until tender and drain. Cool. Layer in large bow! 
carrots, onions, and bell pepper. Mix the other ingredients together and pour 
over layered vegetables. Let marinate 24 hours. (The left over dressing can 
be used again. Try it on a tossed salad too.) 

Mrs. Richard Cutler 

(Lea Paulson) 


73 


CARROTS SUPREME 
Serves 4 
2 lbs. carrots 4% tsp. sugar 


1 tsp. salt % tsp. parsley, ground 
‘4 lb. butter or margarine 


Scrape carrots and cut into very thin slices. Cook in askillet with butter and 
salt, covered, over medium heat, shaking to prevent browning. Cook until 
tender (approximately 10 minutes). Add sugar and sprinkle with parsley. 
Mrs. Myles Gaythwaite 
(Biddie Davenport) 


SQUASH CASSEROLE I 
Serves 8 to 10 


1% lbs. fresh squash, boiled til tender 3 carrots, shredded in strips 


Salt and pepper 1 pkg. Pepperidge Farm Herb 

1 stick butter, melted stuffing (save enough of stuffing 
% pint sour cream to use on top of casserole like 

1 can cream of chicken soup bread crumbs) 


Drain squash and add salt and pepper, butter, sour cream, cream of chicken 
soup, carrots and stuffing. Place in casserole dish and sprinkle stuffing on 
top like bread crumbs. Bake covered at 350° for 20-30 minutes. 


Shields Harris 


SQUASH CASSEROLE II 


6-8 yellow squash Ip tsp. pepper 
1 can cream of mushroom soup 5 slices bread, crumbled 
% tsp. salt % stick butter, melted 


Cook squash in boiling water until just tender. Drain and cut in half 
lengthwise. Place cut side up, in a greased baking dish. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Pour mushroom soup over squash. Toss bread crumbs with 
melted butter and sprinkle over top. Bake in 350° oven until browned on top. 
| Mrs. Emerson Scarborough, Sr. 
Yanceyuille, N. C. 


SPINACH CASSEROLE 


Serves 4 
1 pkg. frozen chopped spinach 1 cup Parmesan cheese, grated 
1 Tbsp. grated onion 1 Tbsp. flour 
2 eggs Salt and pepper to taste 


1% cup sour cream 


Cook spinach with onion until thawed. Beat eggs and mix rest of ingred- 
ients with spinach and onions and bake in greased casserole for 25-30 
minutes at 350° or until set. Do not overcook as it will separate. 

Mrs. Larry Diedrick 
(Hannah Bell) 


74 


HERB SPINACH 
Serves 10 
3 10-oz. pkgs. spinach, frozen 1% cup herb seasoned bread stuffing 


2 1-pint cartons sour cream 4 Tbsp. butter 
1 envelope Lipton onion soup . 


Cook spinach according to directions. Drain very well. Add sour cream and 
onion soup. Stir well. Put into casserole. Sprinkle dressing on top. Dot with 
butter. Bake 30 minutes at 350°. 


Mrs. Jack Laughery 
(Helen Herboth) 


HERBED SPINACH-RICE BAKE 
Serves 6 to 8 


10 oz. pkg. chopped frozen 2 Tbsp. soft butter 
spinach (cook and drain) 1/3 cup milk 

2 cups cooked rice 2 Tbsp. Worcestershire 

1 cup shredded sharp cheese 1 tsp. salt 

2 eggs (use one if you prefer 14 tsp. rosemary or thyme 


it more crunchy) 


Mix all ingredients. Bake at 350 degrees for 20-25 minutes, until knife comes 
out clean. 


Mrs. Richard Cutler 
(Lea Paulson) 


SPINACH SOUFFLE 


Serves 6 


2 10-oz. pkgs. chopped frozen spinach 1 can cream of mushroom soup 
1 cup boiling water 1% cups grated sharp cheese 
1 tsp. garlic salt 2 eggs, well beaten 


Cook spinach in boiling water with garlic salt until dry. This can be done 
ahead. Add cream of mushroom soup, cheese and eggs. Mix all and bake at 
350° for 30 minutes. This is liked by people who hate spinach and loved by 
those who like it. 


Ginger Gardner 


BROILED EGGPLANT 


Eggplant, cut into slices Catsup 
Margarine Parmesan cheese 


Wash eggplant, but do not peel. Cut into 1%” thick slices. Spread with 
margarine on both sides. Place on cookie sheet and spread top side with 
catsup. Sprinkle Parmesan cheese over all. Broil 3” from flame until bubbly 
and brown. 


Jack Aycock 


75 


EGGPLANT PARMESAN 
Serves 8 
1 eggplant Cracker meal 
1 egg, beaten 1 pkg. Mozzarella cheese, grated 
SAUCE 
1 large can tomato sauce 1 bell pepper 
1 large can tomato paste 1 can black olives 
1 16-0z. can tomatoes 1 pkg. fresh mushrooms 


1 large onion 


Combine ingredients for sauce. Cook for 11% to 2 hours. Season to taste with 
garlic, oregano, Italian herbs and any other seasonings you desire. Peel 
eggplant and slice. Put each slice into bow! of beaten egg, then into cracker 
meal. Fry in oil. In a large casserole, layer sauce, eggplant, and cheese. 
Repeat layers until all ingredients are used. Top with Parmesan cheese and 
bake at 350° for 45 minutes. 


Mrs. Robert Pitt 


BROCCOLI SOUFFLE 


Serves 6 
1 10-oz. ple frozen chopped broccoli 2 tsp. minced dried onion 
1 10%4-oz. can cream of celery 4 eggs, separated 
soup, undiluted % cup grated sharp cheese 


1 cup mayonnaise 


In saucepan, put soup, onion, mayonnaise, cheese and egg yolks. Heat until 
cheese melts. Add cooked and drained broccoli. Whip egg whites until stiff. 
Fold into cool broccoli mixture. Put into casserole. Cook uncovered for 1 hour 
at 325°. Set casserole in pan of water to cook. 

Mrs. John M. MacRae 

(Mabel Scammell) 





76 


BROCCOLI CHEESE CASSEROLE 


Serves 6 
2 10-oz. pkgs. Broccoli tsp. pepper 
1 can condensed cheese soup % cup Pepperidge Farm herb- 
1% cup milk seasoned stuffing 


14 tsp. salt 


Cook broccoli and drain well. Place in 1-quart casserole. Blend soup, milk, 
salt and pepper. Stir into broccoli. Cover with herb-seasoned stuffing. Bake 
in 350° oven for 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Gus Tulloss 

(Bet Munden) 


BROCCOLI CASSEROLE I 
Serves 6 to 8 


2 pkgs. frozen broccoli % carton sour cream 

2 Tbsp. margarine 1 Tbsp. mayonnaise 

2 Tbsp. lemon juice % cup grated sharp cheddar cheese 
1 Tbsp Lipton dried onion soup Bread crumbs 


Prepare broccoli according to directions, then pour off excess water. Add 
margarine, lemon juice, Lipton soup, sour cream, mayonnaise. Whip with 
fork, put in 8 x 12 dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs and grated cheese. Cook 
approximately 30 minutes at 350°. 


Mrs. Leon Dunn 
(Pattie McCay) 


BROCCOLI CASSEROLE II 


2 pkgs. frozen chopped broccoli 1 can sliced water chestnuts 
% cup chopped onion 1 tsp. salt 
1 can celery soup 


Cook broccoli minimum time and drain. Mix all ingredients and place in 
buttered casserole. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and cover with bread 
crumbs. Cook in moderate oven (350°) for 30 minutes. 


Betty Hobbs 


BROCCOLI-ALMOND CASSEROLE 
Serves 6 to 8 


2 10-oz. pkgs. frozen broccoli 1 cup grated sharp cheddar cheese 
1 10%-oz. can cream of mushroom soup 1/3 cup slivered almonds, toasted 
1 cup mayonnaise 8-10 Ritz crackers 

2 eggs, well beaten Salt and pepper to taste 


Cook broccoli according to pkg. directions; drain well. Mix remaining 
ingredients (except Ritz crackers), then fold in cooked broccoli. Cover bottom 
of buttered casserole with cracker crumbs and top with broccoli mixture. 
Bake covered for 30-35 minutes at 375°. 


Mrs. Reginald Brown 





77 


CORN PUDDING 


1 16-0z. can cream corn 2 Tbsp. margarine 


1 16-0z. can whole kernel corn 3 eggs, beaten 
% cup milk % tsp. vanilla flavoring 


1h cup sugar Salt and pepper to taste 
2 Tbsp. flour or cornstarch 


Place all ingredients in 2 quart casserole and bake at 350° for one hour. 
Mrs. Reid McAuley 
(Betty Robbins) 


BAKED CORN AND CHEESE 


1 Tbsp. flour 1 cup cheese, diced 
2 Tbsp. butter % tsp. salt 
1 Tbsp. chopped onion 1, tsp. paprika 
2 Tbsp. chopped green pepper 2 eggs, separated 
1% cup milk 
1 #2 can whole kernel 
corn, drained 
Sauté lightly, butter, onion and pepper. Add flour. Then add milk and cook 
until thickened.Next add corn and two egg yolks. (Remove from heat and 
add the other ingredients except the egg whites). Beat 2 egg whites stiff and 
fold in. Pour into 12 quart casserole and bake 1 hour at 325 degrees. 
Mrs. Richard Cutler 
(Lea Paulson) 





78 


TEXINE’S OKRA CAKES 


Serves 4 


1 pkg. frozen cut okra % tsp. salt 


(or may use fresh okra) Dash pepper 
2 eggs Lemon slices 


% cup dried bread crumbs 


Cook okra as directed 10-12 minutes. Drain. Beat eggs. Add cooked okra, 
bread crumbs, salt, and pepper. Mix well. Drop by spoonfuls onto hot 
greased griddle or heavy frying pan. Brown slowly on both sides. Serve with 
lemon slices. 

Mrs. Worth Britt 

Nags Head, N. C. 


SWEET ’N HOT BEANS 


Serves 4 


14 pound bacon, cut up 1 lb. can “‘pork ’n beans’”’ 
4 onions chopped (enough 1% cup dark brown sugar 


to fill bean can) 4 tsp. cayenne pepper 
Fry bacon. Add onions and cayenne, cook until half done. Stir in sugar, 
beans and simmer 15 minutes. 
Mrs. Joe Warner 
(Lynda Faulkner) 


DILLY BEANS 


2 cups vinegar 
4 cups water 
1% cup salt. 


Beans 

1% tsp. red pepper 

1 garlic bud 

1 tsp. dill 

Sterilize jars. Put in beans, red pepper, garlic bud and dill. Heat vinegar, 

water and salt. Pour over hot beans. Cool. Place tops on jars and store. Will 

keep indefinitely. Makes one quart but may be multiplied for any number of 

jars. 
Mrs. A. P. Thorpe II : 

(Annie Gray Calhoun) ; 


STRING BEANS WITH OLIVE OIL 


Serves 4 to 6 


1% lbs. string beans 

1% cups water 

% cup tomatoes, small chunks 
Wash and cut beans anyway desired. Cook in water with chopped onion. | 
After 30 minutes of cooking, add remaining ingredients and simmer until 


tender (about 15 minutes). 


1 medium onion, chopped 


1/3 cup olive oil : : 
Salt and pepper to taste 


| 
| 





Annette Peebles 


79 


MRS. WILSON’S S. C. BEAN RECIPE 


Serves 6 to 8 


2 Tbsp. oil (Mazola type) 1 cup brown sugar 
1 garlic bud 14 cup vinegar 

3 medium onions, sliced 1 cup catsup 

1 1-lb. can pork and beans 1 tsp. dry mustard 
1 1-lb. can kidney beans 1 tsp. salt 

1 1-lb. can small lima beans 12 tsp. pepper 


Bruise garlic bud, sauté along with onion (and small amount of green 
pepper, if desired) in oil until golden brown. Take garlic out and throw away. 
Take onion (and pepper if used) out of oil and mix with all other ingredients. 
After mixing everything together, put in bean pot or casserole and bake 
uncovered one hour in preheated 350° oven. 

Annette Peebles 


STRING BEAN CASSEROLE 


Serves 8 
1 #303 can bean sprouts 1 3-oz. can French fried onions 
2 #303 cans string beans or Small amount of fresh chopped 
french beans onions to taste 


1 10%4-oz. can mushroom soup 


Drain and wash well bean sprouts and string beans. Mix beans, bean 
sprouts, soup, and onions. Top casserole with French fried onion rings. Cook 
at 350° for 50 minutes. Casserole may be prepared a day ahead and 
refrigerated. 

Mrs. Sam Johnson 

(Velma Harrison) 


ASPARAGUS CASSEROLE 


2 cans asparagus spears 1% cups cream sauce 
14 Ib. slivered almonds Salt and pepper to taste 
4 hard boiled eggs, sliced Bread crumbs to cover 


ly lb. cheddar cheese, grated 


Grease 2 quart casserole. Arrange alternate layers of asparagus, eggs, 
almonds and cheese; make 3 layers of each. Pour cream sauce over all. Cover 
with bread crumbs. Bake in 350° oven for 45 minutes until bubbly and 
lightly browned. 
Mrs. J. Irvin Morgan, Yr. 
Farmville, N. C. 


80 


ASPARAGUS IN SOUR CREAM 


Serves 6 


2 1414-oz. cans asparagus, whole spears 2 Tbsp. onion juice 
1 cup sour cream 1 cup butter bread crumbs 
% tsp. salt (I use Pepperidge Farm corn- 


14 cup mayonnaise bread stuffing) 


Heat sour cream, mayonnaise, and lemon juice in saucepan. Pour over 
asparagus in a casserole dish and top with bread crumbs. Placein 350° oven 
for 20 minutes or until it bubbles. 

Mrs. Michael S. Colo 

(Mary Alice Barr) 


ASPARAGUS-PEA CASSEROLE 
Serves 4 to 6 


1 #303 can of asparagus % lb. sharp cheddar cheese 
1 #303 can of garden peas Pimiento strips (small amounts for color, 


1 10%4-oz. can cream of mushroom soup optional) 
1 small onion 


Into a greased casserole, place in order % can of drained garden peas, 2 can 
drained asparagus, and % can cream of mushroom soup. Top with a light 
layer of finely chopped onions. Repeat layers of peas, asparagus, and soup. 
Top with light layer of finely chopped onions and pimiento, if desired, for 
color. Top generously with cheese. This dish may be made a day ahead and 
refrigerated. Cook at 350° for 30 minutes if not refrigerated or 45 minutes if it 
has been refrigerated. 

Mrs. Sam Johnson 

(Velma Harrison) 


BUTTERBEAN CASSEROLE 


Serves 6 
1 1-lb. can tiny butterbeans % cup grated sharp cheese 
1 beef bouillon cube 1 Tbsp. bacon drippings 
1% cup chopped pecans Crumbled saltines 
1 medium onion, chopped fine Butter 


Dash Worcestershire sauce 


Drain butterbeans, retaining liquid. Heat liquid to boiling, add bouillon cube 

and let dissolve. Add butterbeans, pecans, onion, Worcestershire sauce, 

cheese and bacon drippings. Mix and turn into a buttered casserole. Top 

with crumbled saltines and dot with butter. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 
Mrs. A. Gilmore Crumpler, Jr. 
(Gera Lu Shervette) 





7 


ae OU i OO 


81 


SPANISH LIMA BEANS 


Serves 6 to 8 


14 cup chopped onion 1 12-0z. can corned beef, diced 
% cup chopped green pepper 1 tsp. salt 

1, cup butter 1 tsp. sugar 

1 can tomatoes, large 1% tsp. pepper 


2 cans lima beans, drained 


Cook onion and pepper in butter 5 minutes. Mix with other ingredients in 8 
cups casserole. Bake uncovered in 350° oven 30 minutes. 
. Ruth J. Ritner 


PEA CASSEROLE 


Serves 12 
2 #2 cans drained green peas 2 small cans mushrooms, drained 
1 cup slivered almonds 1 can cream of chicken soup 
2 cups grated cheddar cheese 4 chopped boiled eggs 
1 stick butter . Dash of Worcestershire sauce 
1 chopped onion Salt to taste 


Mix. Let stand overnight. Cook at 350° for 30 minutes in 2-quart dish. 
Mrs. William B. Floyd 
(Carolyn Hamm) 


MUSHROOMS 
Serves 4 to 6 
1% pounds mushrooms 1 tsp. garlic salt 
4 stick of butter 2 Tbsp. red wine 


% bottle of Lea & Perrins 
Worcestershire Sauce 


Wash mushrooms and place the mushrooms, butter, Lea & Perrins and 
garlic salt in a 10-inch frying pan. Add enough water to almost fill pan plus 
the 2 Tbsp. of wine. Cover and let mushrooms simmer until tender, about one 
hour. This is a good side dish with steak, roast or any kind of beef. 

Mrs. Lanny Roof 

(Sally Herbert) 


| (35 
r WN Ge 


82 


BATTER FOR FRIED ONION RINGS 
(From the Old Rio Restaurant) 


Serves 4 


14 tsp. yellow food coloring 


%% cup flour 
2 large onions 


Water (enough to make a 
paste, not too thick) 
Separate 2 large onions into rings, rinse in cold water and pat dry. Coat well 
with plain flour, then dip in batter. Fry in about 1” oil over medium high 
heat—about 1 minute on each side. 
Mrs. Aubrey Almond 

(Betsy May) 


SAUTEED ONIONS 


Serves 4 


3 Tbsp. Worcestershire 


1 stick butter 
Salt and pepper to taste 


3 large Bermuda onions, sliced 
1 Tbsp. oregano 
Melt butter in frying pan. Add onions and other ingredients. Simmer about | 


30 minutes. Tastes great with grilled steak. 
Mr. E. M. Marshburn 


SCALLOPED TOMATOES 


Serves 6 


1 cup celery 2 cups Pepperidge Farm plain toasted 


% cup chopped onion croutons 

2 Thsp. butter 1 Thsp. sugar 

1 Tbsp. flour 1 tsp. salt 

1 #2% can tomatoes Dash of pepper 


2 tsp. prepared mustard 


Cook celery and onion in butter until tender (not brown). Push vegetables to 
one side and blend in flour. In 1'4-quart casserole combine onion/celery mix- 
ture with tomatoes, half the croutons, sugar and seasonings. Bake at 350° 
for about 30 minutes. Top with remaining croutons and bake 10 minutes 


longer. 
Mrs. DeWitt C. McCotter III 
(Denny Broadhurst) 





83 


QUICK VEGETABLE TRICKS 
Cheese Sauce For Broccoli 


Add 2 slices of processed cheese to drained broccoli, cover for a few minutes 
until cheese melts. 


| Sauce For Spinach 
Add 1 Tbsp. butter, 1 tsp. lemon juice and 1 Tbsp. Parmesan cheese to 
drained spinach. 


Pea Casserole 
Add 1 can cream of mushroom soup to a large can of Le Seur peas and bake 
at 350° for 30 minutes. | 
Mrs. Cleveland Cherry 
(Judy Kincheloe) 


SQUASH CASSEROLE WITH SAUSAGE 
Serves 6 to 7 


12-14 yellow squash 1 Ib. sausage 
1 cup chopped onion Salt and pepper to taste 


Fry sausage and reserve drippings. Cook squash 5-6 minutes after they 
begin to boil. Remove from water. Let drain and cool. Slice off top of each 
squash and save. Scoop out seeds. Mix together: crumbled sausage, chopped 
squash (seeds and tops cut from squash), chopped onion, and salt and 
pepper. Refill squash shells. Pour a little of sausage drippings over each. Put 
in baking dish and bake 350° oven 40-45 minutes. 

Gail Ayers 


PAT HIGDON’S SQUASH CASSEROLE 


Serves 4 to 6 


2 Ibs. squash 1 cup grated sharp cheese 
% tsp. garlic powder 12-14 cheese Ritz crackers 
2 eggs 


Cook squash and mash it. Add garlic powder and eggs, and beat with fork. 
Add grated cheese. Pour in buttered 11x7x2” casserole. Crumble crackers on 
top and dot with butter. 

Annette Peebles 


BROCCOLI CASSEROLE III 
Serves 6 to 8 
2 boxes frozen chopped broccoli % cup mayonnaise 
2 eggs, well beaten ‘ 1 small onion chopped fine 
1 can mushroom soup, undiluted Salt and pepper to taste 
1 cup grated sharp cheese Cracker crumbs 


Cook frozen broccoli 5 minutes after it boils. Then drain. Add eggs, soup, 
cheese, mayonnaise, onion and salt and pepper. Pour mixture into buttered 
casserole, top with cracker crumbs. Bake an hour or until hot and slightly 


brown on top at 350°F. 
Grace Minor 


84 


QUICK ‘N’ EASY CORN RELISH 


2 cups drained, whole kernel corn 1% tsp. celery seeds 

le green pepper, chopped % tsp. salt 

4% medium onion 4 tsp. dry mustard 
(thinly sliced) 3 Tbsp. vinegar 

6 Tbsp. sweet-pickle relish 2 Tbsp. white corn syrup 


Combine all ingredients in sauce pan. Simmer 5 minutes. Refrigerate 
covered. Serve cold. 


Naomi Jarman 


CHEESE POTATOES 


Serves 4-6 
3 Tbsp. melted butter % cup finely grated cheddar cheese 
4 medium size potatoes, boiled % tsp. paprika 
1 cup corn flakes 1 tsp. salt 


Cut potatoes in '2inch slices and place into baking dish where melted butter 
has been poured. Brush top of potatoes with a little more butter. Roll corn 
flakes fine. Combine with cheese, paprika and salt. Sprinkle over potatoes. 
Bake in 425° oven about 15 minutes.. 


Mrs. Dillon Rose 
(Katie Ellison) 


CURRIED BROCCOLI CASSEROLE 


Serves 6 
2 pkgs. broccoli % tsp. curry powder 
1 can chicken soup 3 slices bread, cubed, tossed in 
2 Tbsp. mayonnaise melted butter (croutons) 


% tsp. lemon juice 


Cook 2 pkgs. broccoli in salted water (not too done). Mix 1 can chicken soup, 
mayonnaise, lemon juice and curry powder. Pour sauce over broccoli in 
casserole and top with buttered croutons. Bake 20 to 30 minutes at 350°. 


Esther L. Bell 


MEXICAN CORN CASSEROLE 


1 16-o0z. can cream style corn 1/3 cup vegetable oil 
1 cup milk 2 eggs 
cup self-rising flour 2 cups grated cheddar cheese 


1 4-oz. can Old El Paso brand green 
chili peppers, chopped 


Combine all ingredients and pour into casserole. Bake at 350° one hour until 
brown and firm or in microwave oven 15 minutes. 
Mrs. James A. Haggerty 
(Regina Harles) 





86 


CHARITY BALL ’75 SALAD 


Serves 6 


2 9-oz. pkgs. frozen cut string beans 1 8-oz. can button mushrooms, drained 
1 14-0z. can artichoke hearts, cut in half 1 4-oz. can sliced pimento, drained 
1 7-oz. can pitted black olives, 3-4 small white onions, sliced 

drained and sliced and separated into rings 


Sauce 
1 tsp. Accent 
1 tsp. garlic salt 
1 tsp. oregano 
2 Tbsp. sugar 


1 cup vinegar 
1 cup oil 
1 onion, diced 
1% tsp. seasoned salt 
34 tsp. seasoned pepper 
Cook green beans, slightly underdone. Add artichokes, mushrooms, pi- 
mento, olives and onion rings. Mix sauce ingredients and bring toa boil. 
Cool and pour over vegetables. Refrigerate overnight or longer. 

Mrs. Emerson Scarborough 


(Lynn Wall) 


FIVE CUP SALAD 
Serves 12 


1 1-lb. can fruit cocktail 


1 cup coconut 
1 small carton sour cream 


1 cup miniature marshmallows 
1 11-oz. can mandarin oranges 
1 1-lb. can pineapple chunks 


Drain fruit. Mix all ingredients together. Can be fixed ahead of time and 


refrigerated. 
Mrs. F. Stephen Moore 


(Marilyn Ward) 


APRICOT JELLO SALAD 


1 apricot jello % cup chopped nuts of choice 

1 crushed pineapple, small can % cup chopped celery 

1 small Philadelphia Cream Cheese 1 small Cool Whip 

Mix jello, pineapple in 2 cup water and ‘4 cup sugar. Bring to a boil. Let 
this cool and add cream cheese, broken into pieces, chopped nuts and 
chopped celery. Fold in one small Cool Whip and pour into mold and 
refrigerate until set. Minimum time to set about one to two hours. All 


right to refrigerate much longer. 
Lossie McIntyre 


87 


BLUEBERRY SALAD 
Serves 12 
2 small boxes black cherry jello 1 14%-o0z. can blueberries, drained 
1 jarge can crushed pineapple, drained 3 medium bananas, sliced 
% cup chopped pecans 
Mix for Topping 
1 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese % cup sugar 
1 carton sour cream 
Mix jello according to directions on package. Fold in other ingredients. 
When completely firm, spread on topping. 
Mrs. William B. Floyd, Jr. 


(Carolyn Hamm) 
CHERRY SALAD 
Serves & 

i can red sour cherries; save juice % cup chopped nuts 

I cup sugar 1 3-oz. pkg. cherry jello 

3 oranges, sectioned or I small can 1 cup boiling water 

mandarin oranges 1 pkg. unflavored gelatin, softened 
1 small can crushed pineapple in 4 cup water 


Boil cherry juice with sugar until dissolved. Add cherries. Combine jello 
with boiling water and add gelatin. Add cherry mixture, pineapple, 
oranges, and nuts to jello mixture. Let congeal. 

Mrs. Henry Hinson 

(Lucy Aldridge) 


COUNTRY CLUB FRESCA SALAD 


Serves 10 
1% cups seedless white grapes 1 pkg. lemon gelatin 
(fresh or canned) 1 envelope plain gelatin 
1 small can crushed pineapple % cup cold water 
2 cups liquid (fruit juice and 2 cups sour cream 
Fresca) 1 pkg. slivered blanched almonds 


Drain pineapple and measure juice, adding enough Fresca to make 2 
cups. Bring to a boil and pour over lemon gelatin and stir into the plain 
gelatin which has been softened in 4% cup cold water for 5 minutes. Stir 
well to be sure all gelatin is dissolved. Allow mixture to become thorough- 
ly cold but not syrupy. Add grapes, sour cream, pineapple and almonds. 
Pour into a ring mold and place in refrigerator to become firm. Turn out 
onto a large platter and fill center with chicken salad if this is to be the 
main luncheon dish. Otherwise, garnish with Bibb or Boston lettuce and 
whole preserved kumquats. Serve with homemade mayonnaise. Place 
clusters of green grapes in center of ring. 

Mrs. Foley Hooper 

Apopka, Florida 


. Soften gelatin in 4 cup col waleee: 

nge juice concentrate. Discs Ada 

1anas and marshmallows. Pour in 
oY spread with: 


: ae Cook in small - 
RCo Fold the cooled custard - 
cu the set jello’ : : 


7 Dissolve g gelatin and ne 
: juice, let ci cool until thick- — ‘ 








_ stirring freq , until it begins to thicken. Add pi 
nuts. Pour nig pans ech uate been rinsed in in cold a 
erator overnig and serve, saanse oe jpped cream 
Whip, if desired. CAML gaseh ye ART ene | eS 


90 


ORANGE-PINEAPPLE FROZEN DESSERT(Lo-Cal) 


Serves 4 
12-oz. Sealtest Light and Lively % tsp. orange extract 
Plain Yogurt 1 cup crushed pineapple, canned in 
1 can of water-packed mandarin pineapple juice 
2 packets Sweet and Low 


oranges, drained 
Sprinkle drained orange sections with orange extract and Sweet ‘n Low. 
Add all ingredients, stir, spread in flat pan and freeze. Let set at room 


temperature for 15-30 minutes before serving. 
Mrs. James Ezzell, Jr. 


(Patsy Wall) 


RASPBERRY SALAD 


Serves 6 
1 pkg. raspberry jello (Royal best % cup hot water 
flavor) 1 can red raspberries, sieved to 
1 cup boiling water remove seeds (or 1 pkg. frozen 
1 pkg. gelatin, softened with cold raspberries thawed) 
1 can applesauce 


water 
Combine above ingredients and pour into molds. Interesting and dif- 


ferent taste. May be used as dessert with whipped topping. 
Mrs. Jasper Cummings 


RUSSIAN CREAM MOLD 


Serves 8 


1 lb. canned peaches, drained and 


1 3-oz. pkg. lemon gelatin 
diced 


1 cup sour cream 
1/3 cup flaked coconut 1 cup frozen sliced strawberries 


1 cup boiling water 
Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Chill until thick and syrupy. Add sour 
cream; beat until blended. Fold in peaches, coconut and strawberries. 


Turn into lightly oiled 4-cup mold. Chill until set. 
Mrs. T. T. Ward 





91 


FROZEN STRAWBERRY SALAD 


Serves 18 
2 3-0z. pkgs. cream cheese, softened 1% pkg. miniature marshmallows 
% to 1 cup nuts 1 cup whipped cream 
1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple Add a few drops red cake coloring 
1 large pkg. frozen strawberries, 
sliced 


Soak marshmallows in pineapple while fixing other; mix all together, 
fill in quart milk cartons. Clip top together and freeze. Slice off for 
salad through carton, and use it as needed. It will last forever and is 
good with anything; it’s always ready. 

Nellie Jones 

Edenton, N. C. 


STRAWBERRY RIBBON SALAD 


Serves 12 


2, 3-02. pkgs. strawberry jello 2 10-o0z. pkgs. frozen strawberries 
2 cups boiling water 1 13-0z. can crushed pineapple, 


1 envelope Knox gelatin drained (optional) 
1 Thsp. hot water 1 cup sour cream 


Dissolve jello in cups boiling water. Dissolve gelatin in 1 Tbsp. water. 
Add to jello mixture. Add strawberries, stirring until thawed. Add pine- 
apple. Pour mixture equally into 2 8” x 8” x 2” pans. Chill until firm. 
Spoon sour cream over one firm layer evenly. Unmold second layer on 


top. Chill. May be topped with whipped or sour cream. 
Ross Garris Sharer 


TEA GARDEN SALAD 


Serves 6 


1 pkg. orange jello, dissolved in 1 12-0z. can crushed pineapple 
1 cup fresh, strong hot tea 1 can thinly sliced water chestnuts 
1 11-oz. can mandarin orange % tsp. salt 
segments Juice of % lemon 
Drain liquids from the three listed cans and use the fruit juices to make 
a second cup of liquid for jello and tea mixture. When partially con- 


gealed, add fruits and water chestnuts and pour into mold. 


Dressing For Salad 
Half Hellman’s Mayonnaise and half sour cream, thinned slightly with 


lemon juice. Add grated rind of one orange. 
Mrs. J. W. E. Joyner 


(Eleanor Armfield) 










uid is cool, bab noe vere 23d 
cheese with a few spoonsful of the — 


stir into balance of mixture. _ 
nuts. Add green color, 1B 


















lo in ‘Hee water, ade Gate vinegar and mayon- 
ee rotary beater , then sour into 











+ i 


mix Fells Sid aetee Gradually blend in soup; heat and stir 
elatin dissolves. Add mayonnaise, vinegar, onion and pepper. Beat 
wit. ‘ic beater. Chill till partia set. Turn into arge chilled _ 

“bowl; beat till thiel and fluffy. Fold in cucumber, celery and 
here: into. eight individual molds. or 5-cup ring mold. Chill | 












, Oe Ea Ae Ch Mrs. Mac Hines ee 
. | h , eB a pa P : 4 w 
cas ay " ya i | i ‘ 








aoe ine my cf ete omen: 


: : | Pe 
* ; | 
» ¢) 
oh | 
: ? 
A J ; | 
: | . fi 


94 


STRING BEAN SALAD 


2 lbs. string beans, cooked or 1 green pepper, cut into strips 
2 cans of whole string beans 34 cup french dressing 
1 onion, sliced into rings 


Cook the beans in salted water until just tender, about 25 minutes, or 
rinse canned beans with cold water and drain. Dress with french dress- 
ing, add the onion and pepper and stir gently. Chill overnight. 

Mrs. Robert L. Spencer 

(Laura Lynch) 


WONDER GREEN SALAD 


Serves 15 
#2 can La Choy fancy mixed 4-oz, jar pimento, chopped 
chinese vegetables 1 small bell pepper, finely chopped 
#2 can Le Sueur peas 1 medium onion, finely chopped 
#2 can cut green beans 1 cup celery, finely chopped 


Drain vegetables and mix together. Combine 1 cup vinegar, 1 cup sugar, 
and % cup salad oil. Mix and pour over vegetables. Marinate at least 24 
hours. Keeps a week. 

Mrs. George T. Beattie 


SPINACH SALAD 


Serves 6 
1 small head of lettuce, torn i small onion, chopped fine 
1% 10-oz. pkg. spinach, torn 2 Tbsp. mayonnaise 
2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped Oil and vinegar sparingly 


Toss all ingredients and serve. 
Mrs. J. A. Vann, Jr. 


MRS. GERVINS SALAD 


3 parts vinegar to 1% parts oil % cup scallion tops (not onion 
% garlic pod bulb) 

3 peeled tomatoes '% cup celery 

14 cup parsley 1 head Iceberg lettuce 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Cut up garlic pod and soak in oil one hour or longer. Remove garlic, add 
vinegar. Add tomatoes to mixture and quarter them. Let marinate for 15 
to 30 minutes. Cut up parsley, scallion tops and celery very fine and add 
to mixture. Tear up lettuce and add. Toss all with a little oregano and gar- 
nish with croutons. 

Pru Garlow 


: 


—_ 


_- 


_——— 


— 


= 


95 


CAESAR SALAD 


1 large clove of garlic 
% cup olive oil 

% tsp. white pepper 

% tsp. salt 

2 tsp. lemon juice 


Serves 4 


% can anchovies, cut into small 
pieces 

' cup grated parmesan cheese 

1 large head Romaine lettuce 

2 cups croutons 

2 eggs, cooked one minute 


Crush garlic into an extra large salad bowl. Add olive oil, white pepper, 
salt, lemon juice, anchovies and parmesan cheese. Mix well. Add eggs 
and mix. Wash and core Romaine lettuce, drain well and tear into large 
pieces. Toss lettuce in dressing until coated. Add croutons. Toss slightly. 
Serve immediately with additional parmesan cheese. 


John D. Langley, Jr. 


LUNCHEON SALAD BOWL WITH | 
STONEHENGE COUNTRY DRESSING 


2 Bibb lettuce 

i head Romaine lettuce 

3 small breasts of chicken, sliced 
and cut into julienne strips 

4 slices cooked ham, cut into 
narrow strips 

2 slices cold roast pork or beef, 
cut into thin strips 


Serves 4-6 


3 slices Swiss cheese, cut into 
thin slices 
4 hard-boiled eggs, cut into quarters 
1 cup tiny cherry tomatoes or 
4 regular tomatoes, peeled and 
quartered 
4 strips bacon, cooked crisp and 
drained 
4% cup country dressing 


Wash Bibb lettuce, shake and dry. Line bowl with leaves. Cut Romaine 
into 2-inch chunks, place in bottom of bowl. Place meat and cheese strips 
in separate mounds around the center of the pile of cut lettuce. Use the 
quartered eggs and tomatoes as garnish for edge of bowl. Lay bacon 
across top. Pour Stonehenge dressing and toss at table. 


Stonehenge Country Dressing 


1% cups mayonnaise 

2/3 cup heavy cream 

1 Tbsp. prepared mustard 

14 tsp. each of thyme, savory, 
pepper 

2 Tbsp. sago cheese (optional) 


3 cups 


2 Tbsp. onion, finely grated 

1 Thsp. salt 

2 Tbsp. white vinegar 

1 cup Gruyere cheese, grated 

% clove garlic, peeled and minced. 


Place all ingredients in mixing bowl and blend by hand or electric mixer. 
Chill several hours before use. (May also be used on shrimp, crabmeat, 


or lobster.) 


Ricki Mottershead 





Z, ornbine vinegar, sugar, 
earns saucepan over | 
: | 1 for five 









se uae P. sire i 
(Annie Gray Calhoun) 








97 


SAUERKRAUT SALAD 
Serves 8 
1 large can sauerkraut 4-0z. jar pimentos 
2 cups chopped celery 2 cups sugar 
1 cup chopped green pepper 2 Thsp. vinegar 


Pull kraut apart with fork and drain. Add the other ingredients. Let 
stand overnight in refrigerator. Great with barbequed porkchops from 
the grill. (You would never know it was sauerkraut.) 

Mrs. Richard E. Cutler 


(Lea Paulson) 
COLE SLAW 
Serves 8 
1 small cabbage 2 tsp. celery seed 
3 Tbsp. Durkees dressing 1 tsp. sugar 


4 Tbsp. mayonnaise 


Grate cabbage fine. Add Durkees dressing, mayonnaise, celery seed and 


sugar. 
Mrs. Bill Kincheloe 
(Marty Purvis) 


MARINATED COLE SLAW 
Serves 10-12 


34 cup salad oil (Wesson) 


1 cabbage 
1 large white onion 1 tsp. celery seed 
1 large bell pepper 1 tsp. dry mustard 


1 cup sugar 1 tsp. salt 


I cup vinegar 
Shred the cabbage finely. Chop the onion and pepper into small pieces. 
Place the cabbage in a bowl, then the onion, then the pepper. Pou! one 
cup of sugar over this. Do not stir. In a sauce pan, bring to a boil one cup 
vinegar, % cup oil, 1 tsp. celery seed, 1 tsp. dry mustard, 1 tsp. salt. Pour 
this over the sugar. Cover and refrigerate. This is better if made-one or 
two days before serving. Can be kept for a week in the refrigerator. When 
ready to serve, mix well and place in another container. 

Mrs. Leon Henderson, -J/r. 

(Emily Dean) 


98 


GRANDMOTHER’S “HOT” COLE SLAW 


Serves 4 
1 small head green cabbage, shredded 1% cup sour cream 
Water to cover ' cup vinegar 
1 tsp. salt 2 tsp. sugar 


1 heaping tsp. shortening 


Steam shredded cabbage, covered with water, in sauce pan until cabbage 
is barely done. Mix in a small bowl the sour cream, vinegar, salt and 
sugar. Pour off excess water from cabbage and add shortening. Add sour 
cream mixture. Serve hot. A real taste treat for a lowly, inexpensive 
vegetable. 

Mrs. William S. Hoyle 

(Linda Bishop) 


CHICKEN WALDORF SALAD 


Serves 8-10 

4 or 5 cups cooked chicken meat, 2 cups diced red eating apple 

cut in small pieces 34 cup broken walnuts 
1 cup thinly sliced celery 

Dressing 

1 cup mayonnaise or cooked 2 Tbsp. milk or light cream 

dressing 1% tsp. salt 
2 Tbsp. lemon juice (fresh is best) Dash of pepper 


Make dressing and mix with chicken, celery and nuts. Cut and add 
apples last to prevent darkening. Chill at least one hour. Serve with let- 
tuce and watercress. 

Mrs. Theo Pitt, Jr. 

(Molly Browning) 


JKLLIED CHICKEN SALAD LOAF 
48 Servings 


10 cups chicken, cooked and diced 6 Tbsp. gelatin, unflavored 

2 cups olives, chopped 1 cup water, cold 

2 cups celery, chopped 5 cups mayonnaise 

2 cups cucumber, finely chopped 5 cups cream, whipped 

1 cup green pepper, finely chopped Lettuce, endive, radishes, olives, 
1 cup pimento, chopped as needed 


1 cup pecans, chopped 


Combine chicken, olives, celery, cucumber, green pepper, pimento, and 

pecans. Soak gelatin in cold water and dissolve over hot water. Add to 

mayonnaise. Fold in whipped cream. Add to chicken mixture. Mix well. 

Pour into four loaf pans and set in refrigerator until firm. When ready to 

serve, unmold and garnish with endive, lettuce, radishes, and olives. 
Mrs. Nell Christian 


99 


FANCY CHICKEN SALAD 


Serves 6 
2 cups diced, cooked chicken 4 cup sour cream 
1% cups sliced celery 1 tsp. curry powder 
1% cups diced pineapple, drained 1 tsp. lemon juice 
4 cup toasted almonds Salt and pepper as needed 


% cup mayonnaise 


Mix mayonnaise, sour cream, curry and lemon Juice together. Add chick- 
en, pineapple and almonds. Mix well. 


Mrs. Roscoe Griffin 


BAKED CHICKEN SALAD 


Serves 8 
4 cups chopped chicken 1 Tbsp. minced onion 
*%4 cup mayonnaise 2 Tbsp. chopped pimento 
* cups cream of chicken soup 2 Tbsp. lemon juice 
% cup chopped celery 1 cup shredded sharp cheese 
4 chopped hard-boiled eggs topped with 1 cup crushed 
1 tsp. salt potato chips 


Chill several hours. Bake at 400° for 25 minutes. 


Mrs. J. W. E. Joyner 
(Eleanor Armfield) 


BALI HI SALAD 
Serves 12-15 


2 qts. coarsely cut cooked turkey 2 cups chopped celery 
or chicken breast 2 cups chopped pecans, large pieces 
2 lbs. seedless grapes, cut into halves 1 cup toasted almond slivers to use 
2 cups diced pineapple as a garnish (optional) 
Dressing 
4 cups mayonnaise 2 Tbsp. soy sauce 


1 Thsp. curry powder 


Sprinkle fruit with juice of 2 lemon before mixing with dressing. Toss all 
ingredients lightly. Use forks. Serve on Boston or Bibb lettuce, and pre- 
pare day ahead, using salad as a one-dish meal. 

Mrs. J. W. E. Joyner 

(Eleanor Armfield) 





‘Mrs. Donald J. Brown : 
_ (Stephanie Sullivan) 











Serves 6 — 








nd mustard in sauce pan. Stir well. Add 
heat aiele mixture © boils. ‘Add we oo} 


TT Mes: Michie Sols 
(Mary Alice Barr) 
















onion and cook until tender. Supineshe Hiyereh dese 
ereee Glenn. cat sauce and Tie cups cheese Co stig Sorieile | 
teens made ‘ahead and reheated just before mixing with other ingre- 











r + \ 
¥ J xi 
: a i; ph ats ; 
: F me 
TF i 
j ‘ 
y f : ‘ 5 
i ag # y rs ' ’ 
, ¢ i 3 : 
x 2 
. ¥ a. * . 
yl es 2. + 5 ¥ 5, 1% 
1 4 ‘ , £ ob F Y 
t i + / 
; ; f } , i ‘ 
¥ & 
* t i 4 | 4 





101 


SHRIMP-MACARONI SALAD I 


*4 lb. cooked shrimp 

1% cups shell macaroni, cooked 

‘2 cup mayonnaise mixed with a 
little French or Russian dressing 

1 cup raw cauliflower, broken into 


Serves 6 


‘4 cup sweet pickle, chopped 

3 Tbsp. bottled Italian dressing 
1 to 2 Tbsp. lemon juice 

1 tsp. grated onion 

1 tsp. celery seed 


1 tsp. salt 
% tsp. pepper 
1 hard-cooked egg, sliced for top 


small pieces 
1 cup celery, chopped 
“4 cup parsley, chopped 


Cut shrimp in half. Combine macaroni, cauliflower, celery, parsley, 
pickle and shrimp. Blend mayonnaise, Italian dressing, lemon juice, 
onion and seasoning. Add to shrimp mixture. Toss lightly. Chill. Serve on 
crisp greens with sliced eggs. | 

Mrs. Tom Matthews 

(Billie Jo Works) 


SHRIMP MACARONI SALAD II 


Serves 6 


4 Tbsp. mayonnaise 
2 Tbsp. catsup 

1 Tbsp. lemon juice 
Tabasco to taste 

1 pimento 


1 8-oz. pkg. elbow macaroni 
1 Ib. shrimp 

1 bell pepper, chopped 

3 stalks celery, chopped 

1 onion, chopped 


Cook and chill macaroni. Boil and chill shrimp. When chilled, add other 
ingredients and toss. Refrigerate a couple of hours before serving. 
Mrs. G. Daniel Knight, Jr. 
(Norma Pittard) 


CURRIED SHRIMP RICE 


Serves 6 


% tsp. curry powder 

% tsp. salt 

1% tsp. dry mustard 

14 cup diced celery 

1 lb. cleaned, cooked shrimp 


1% cup minute rice 
1% cup boiling water 


% tsp. salt 
% cup bottled French dressing 


34 cup Mayonnaise 
1 Tbsp. minced onion 
Combine rice, water, and salt in sauce pan. Cook. When rice is cool, 
lightly toss in French dressing. Refrigerate until thoroughly cool. Blend 
together mayonnaise, onion, curry, salt, pepper, and mustard, Refrigerate 
until ready to serve. Just before serving, add to rice and shrimp. This 
recipe can be made ahead and chilled until ready to serve. 

Mrs. Page C. Keel 

(Betty Griffin) 


oil, denon t juice, onion | 
food coloring. If too 





103 


POPPY SEED DRESSING 
Makes 1 quart 
1% cup sugar 3 Tbsp. onion juice, (mild onion) 
2 tsp. dry mustard 2 cups Wesson Oil 
2 tsp. salt 3 Tbsp. poppy seed 


2/3 cup vinegar 
Mix, with electric mixer, all ingredients except oil and poppy seed. Add 


oil slowly, beating until thick. Add poppy seed and mix. Keeps in- 
definitely. Best on fruit salads, grapefruit, strawberries, bananas, can- 


taloupe. : 
Hallie Brake Anderson 


FRUIT SALAD DRESSING I 


1 cup canned pineapple juice 2 eggs, separated 
1 cup cream, whipped 


%4 cup sugar 
2 Tbsp. butter 


1 Tbsp. flour 
Heat juice till warm. Blend in flour and butter. Add beaten egg yolks. 


Fold in beaten egg whites, put in double boiler and cook till thick. Cool. 
Before serving, fold in whipped cream. If using Cool Whip, cut out most 


of the sugar. Good on all fruits except citrus. 
India Sprye 


BLEU CHEESE DRESSING 


2 Tbsp. vinegar 


1 cup sour cream 

2 3-oz. bars cream cheese 1 tsp. sugar 

2 Tbsp. chopped onion 1 tsp. worcestershire sauce 
Dash hot pepper sauce 


1 clove pressed garlic 
Mix all ingredients in blender; blend thoroughly. Then add 4 oz. crumbled 
Bleu Cheese. (Do not blend bleu cheese). Chill. This is good as a salad 


dressing or dip. 
Mrs. Sam Woodley 


QUICK BLUE CHEESE SALAD DRESSING 
Serves 6 


4 Tbsp. mayonnaise 2 tsp. worcestershire sauce 
3 Tbsp. Bleu Cheese Dressing 


Mix all ingredients together. Serve over vegetable salad. 
Elizabeth Kincheloe 


] 


104 


ROQUEFORT CREAM DRESSING 
Makes 1 quart 


2 oz. Roquefort cheese % pt. sour cream 

4 oz. bleu cheese | 1 pt. mayonnaise 

1 whole hard-boiled egg, grated Dash of sugar 

1 hard-boiled egg yolk, grated Salt and pepper to taste 
duice of 1 lemon Garlic powder to taste 


Break cheese in lumps. Combine all ingredients, blending well. Store in a 
covered jar in the refrigerator. 

Margaret F. Morgan 

Farmville, N. C. 


SWEET ’N SPICY SALAD DRESSING 
Makes 3 cups 


1 cup salad oil 2 tsp. salt 

1 cup vinegar 1 tsp. coarsely ground pepper 
1 cup sugar 2 tsp. prepared mustard 

1 small onion, chopped 1 tsp. worcestershire sauce 

1 garlic clove, chopped 1 Tbsp. chives 


% tsp. paprika 


Mix together all ingredients in blender and chill. 


Mrs. Emerson Scarborough 
(Lynn Wall) 


DELIGHTFUL FRENCH DRESSING 
Makes 1 pint 


% cup sugar 1 small onion 

'4 cup vinegar 1 tsp. worcestershire sauce 
1% cup catsup Dash pepper 

1 cup salad oil Dash salt 


Place all ingredients in blender and blend. Then chill. Lemon pepper or 
a garlic clove or bleu cheese may be added if you desire. 


Mrs. David Abel 


TOMATO SOUP-FRENCH DRESSING 
Makes 3 cups 


1 10%2-oz. can condensed tomato 1 Tbsp. prepared mustard 
soup 1 Tbsp. garlic salt 

1 cup salad oil 1 tsp. salt 

1 Thsp. black pepper % cup sugar 

1 Tbsp. worcestershire sauce % cup vinegar 


Pour soup into mixing bowl. Stir while adding other ingredients in order 
given. Place in covered jar in refrigerator. Shake well each time before 
serving. 

Mrs. Joe Warner, Jr. 

(Lynda Faulkner) 


105 


SALAD DRESSING 
Makes about 1 pint 


‘e cup sugar 1 tsp. celery salt 


% cup vinegar 1 tsp. paprika 
1 Tbsp. onion 1 tsp. salt 
1 tsp. dry mustard 1 cup salad oil 


Put ingredients in blender and mix at medium speed until completely 
blended. Pour in jar and refrigerate. Will keep three to four weeks. 
Mrs. Gilbert Bell 
Statesville, N. C. 


BLENDER GREEN GODDESS DRESSING 
Makes 2 cups 


1 Tbsp. lemon juice 


1 cup mayonnaise 
1 clove garlic Salt and pepper 
2 Tbsp. anchovy paste 3 Tbsp. Tarragon vinegar 
3 Thsp. chives 4 cup chopped parsley 
% cup whipping cream 


Blend all ingredients for 20 seconds at high speed; then chill before 


serving. 
Mrs. DeWitt C. McCotter III 
(Denny Broadhurst) 


RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSING 


‘4 cup salad oil Pepper 
% cup vinegar % cup sugar 
2 Thsp. fresh lemon juice 


1/3 cup catsup 
1 tsp. salt 1/3 cup chopped onion 


Put in jar and refrigerate two to three hours before serving. This wil! keep 


for at least three weeks in the refrigerator. 
Mrs. Andy Bowen 


THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING 
Makes 1% cups 


\% cup finely chopped stuffed olives 1 cup mayonnaise 
2 Tbsp. chili sauce 


2 Tbsp. finely chopped green pepper 
2 Thsp. finely chopped onion % cup milk 


Combine all ingredients in small bow]; stir until well blended. Refrigerate, 


covered, at least 2 hours before serving. 
Mrs. Mac Hines 


(Hadley Morgan) 


i 


We sgsce ty 


ane a pe ea es 


a 










y 


on wicca teaveus 





7 ‘ ‘ 
4 ¥ ‘ 
’ 
* , Pe 
§ 4 + i ' i 








108 


SHRIMP SALAD 


Serves 4 
1 Ib. frozen, prepared shrimp, 1 Tbsp. parsley 
thawed % tsp. salt 
2 cups cooked macaroni, cooled % tsp. pepper 
1 cup diced cucumber % cup mayonnaise 
1 Tbsp. minced onion 
Mix all ingredients and refrigerate until ready to serve. 
Mrs. E. M. Dickens 
(Patricia Pullen) 
CRANBERRY SALAD 
Serves 12 


Bottom Layer 2 cups boiling water 
2 small boxes lime jello 1 large can crushed pineapple 


Mix and pour into 9” x 13” pan. Chill until firm. 


Middle Layer 
12 oz. pkg. cream cheese 
When cheese is soft, spread on firm bottom layer. 


Top Layer 2 cups boiling water 
2 small boxes strawberry jello 1 can wholeberry cranberry sauce 


Thicken in refrigerator; then pour on top of cream cheese. 
Mrs. William B. Floyd, Jr. 
(Carolyn Hamm) 


CONGEALED FRUIT SALAD 
Serves 8-10 


1 small pkg. lemon jello ‘2 cup chopped pecans 


2 medium-sized red skin eating 1 cup ginger ale 
apples 2/3 cup boiling water 


1 small can crushed pineapple 


Dissolve jello in boiling water. Add crushed pineapple and pineapple 
juice. Add pecans. Wash apples. Leave peelings on and grate on coarse 
grater. Add apples to mixture. Add ginger ale. Pour into mold or pan 
and chill in refrigerator. 

Mrs. George Weeks 

(Mildred Joyner) 





110 


‘CORNED BEEF DINNER 


| han _ Serves 4 
2% lbs. corned aati avesweek : 3 cloves 
2 onions ) 1 bay leaf 
4 carrots | | 1 Tbsp. dried persley 
2 potatoes, quartered in  & tsp. pepper 


1 small green cabbage, 
cut in wedges 


Place beef in large pot, cover with water, ee ee a boil, and simmer > 
covered for three hours. Remove meat and keep warm. Add onions, car- 
rots, and potatoes. Cook for 20 minutes until tender. Add cabbage, cloves, 
bay. leaf, parsley, and pepper. Cook 15 minutes. Slice corned beef and 
serve with cooked vegetables. | | 
Mrs. Frank Harrison 
(Josephine Vann) 


DRIED BEEF ALA KING 


% lb. dried beef 2 cups rich milk 


14 lb. sliced mushrooms 1 egg yolk 

1h green pepper, diced 1 Tbsp. sherry wine 
1 pimento, sliced Salt and pepper 

Ys cup butter or margarine | Hot Toast or rice 

3 Tbsp. flour 


Sauté mushrooms, pepper and pimento in tablee nse of butter. until 
slightly browned (five minutes). Soak beef in cold water 20 minutes. 
Drain and squeeze dry and break into pieces. Melt remaining butter, stir 
in flour and add milk gradually. Cook until smooth. Add beef, sautéed 
vegetables and one egg yolk and heat thoroughly. Stir in sherry. Serve 
on toast or rice. P.S. I add a little more sherry and five drops Lee & Per- 
rins. A dash of grated Italian cheese to the cream sauce adds more flavor. 
This should feed six HEY eaters, four ee persons or one e Texan. 


MACARONI il DRIED BEEF AND MUSHROOMS 

| 5 ay Boreas 
5 small pkgs. macaroni iw 5 Tbsp. salt (1 
72 qts. water, boiling sya | | | 
Cook macaroni in salted water about 15 minutes or until Hate Drain 
and rinse. Prepare the following sauce: | 


Sauce 
15 Tbsp. ee or bacon fat Mh 72 cups milk 
10 Thsp. flour RUN MU vol he 2% cups grated cheese | 
2% tsp. salt ; Bieta 242 cups canned son uaa sliced 
114 tsp. pepper | eA a 114 lbs. dried beef | a 


5 tsp. paprika 


Cook the first six eed ents until thick, stirring constantly. Add cheese, i 
mushrooms, beef and macaroni and cook three to four minutes. Put in 
casserole dishes and brown i in oven. 


_ Mrs. Nell Christian 


111 


VEAL WITH WHITE WINE SAUCE 


| | Serves 4-6 
2 lbs. veal, cut from round in thin 5 Tbsp. butter 
%-inch strips | 2 Tbsp. oil, corn or vegetable 
1’ cups flour (add more if needed) © 1 cup white wine (Chablis perhaps) 
Salt and pepper to taste 1 cup heavy sour cream 


2tsp. paprika . : 


Put flour, salt, pepper and paprika in a paper bag. Shake to coat all of 
the veal strips which you drop a few at a time into the paper bag. Melt 
five Tbsp. butter with the 2 Tbsp. oil. Add veal and toss around so as to 
obtain a quick browning without burning the butter and oil. Once meat 
is browned, add wine, cover and cook 15 minutes. Remove cover, let 
juices cook down. Now add one cup sour cream and mix well; do not let 
sour cream boil. Heat thoroughly. Serve with buttered noodles; place 
buttered crumbs on top of veal and noodles; or on toast points. A dash 
of paprika or parsley looks attractive as a finishing touch. Broccoli is 
nice as a vegetable. | 
Mrs. Donald Brown 
(Stephanie Sullivan) 


VEAL RAGOUT WITH CARAWAY SEEDS 


; Serves 4 
2 lbs. boneless veal, cut into 2 Tbsp. flour 
1” cubes _ 14% Tbsp. caraway seeds 
1 tsp. salt 1% cups chicken stock or 
Few grinds of pepper canned broth 
3 Tbsp. butter ) 14 lb. sliced fresh mushrooms 


1 large onion, chopped 


Sprinkle the veal cubes with salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a skillet 
and sauté the onion until translucent, but not browned. Stir in the veal 
cubes and sprinkle with flour and caraway seeds. Stir to coat. Cover and 
cook over very low heat for about 10 minutes, shaking the pan occasion- 
ally to keep from sticking. Stir in the chicken stock, bring to a boil and 
reduce heat to low. Add the mushrooms, cover and simmer for 14 hours. 
Serve over noodles. | | 


Mrs. Emerson Scarborough 
(Lynn Wall) 





112 


CONTINENTAL STEAK ROLLS WITH | 


‘SOUR CREAM SAUCE — 
4 minute steaks 4 Tbsp. finely Sedsbneie onions 
4 Tbsp. finely chopped mushrooms ae 1 can Pillsbury Crescent Rolls 


Coat steaks with a flour, salt and pepper mix. Brown in a small sreotint | 
of shortening. Drain. Sauté mushrooms and onions. Place 2 Tbsp. mix > 
on one end of each minute steak. Fold other end over and then fold meat 
in a rectangle of Pillsbury Crescent Rolls. Seal ends. Place seamside 
down. Bake 1 in a 400° preheated oven for 10- 12 ena ay 


Sour Cream Sauce 
1 cup sour cream % tsp. parsley 
1 Thsp. butter , “A tsp. salt 


Combine all ingredients and Wen thoroughly: do not boil, Serve hot over 
steak ce An elegant but i inexpensive company dish. | 
Mrs. Jack Brake 

_ (Kathryn Jones) 


niles STEW | 
' Sores 68 

3 lbs. stew meat ene cup ) beef consommé or bouillon 
1 #2 can carrots or 1% to 2 cups | cube in % cup water . 

sliced carrots 4 Tbsp. tapioca or cornstarch — tHe Mie UIE feds! 
1 #2 can onions ih 1 Tbsp. brown sugar EPI ih 
1 #2 can tomatoes | - % cup bread crumbs 
1 #2 can peas |  Lbay leaf . 
1 #2 can green beans % cup white wine 

| 1% Thsp. salt and pepper mixed _ 
proportionately f 


Drain at geuaelntie) Combine all ingredients in hea pot. aK and ii 
bake six-seven aM a at 260". Serve over rice or noodles. \ 


Mrs. Henry Hinson 
(Lucy Aldridge) 


" STEFADO ) (GREEK STEW) 


1 Ib. stewing beef MeN 1% tsp. cumin (or more according — 
2 large onions, chopped - EB ti. to taste) 

2 Tbsp. flour Oh 1 8 a ted wine | 

1 tsp. salt ‘ Bao wae 4 cup wine vinegar 
htsp.pepper | th Aiba 3 Thsp. oil 


Sauté chopped onion in. ene oil. Add floured beef cubes aay peel ! 
Put in casserole with all other Doahin neat Bake, covered, at 276° - 800° 
for three hours. Serve over rice. | "1 


Mrs. Wilson Carter 
Lexington, N. C. 


113 


BILL’S STEW 


| HRC ENON isla Makes 16-18 quarts 
3 to 4 lb. hen Mbit 4 small white onions, chopped 


1% lbs. pork, chopped % tsp. red pepper 
1% lbs. stew beef | 1/3 small bottle Texas Pete 
4 #12 cans tomatoes © | 2 Tbsp. salt 
4 pkgs. frozen butter beans ) 4 tsp. pepper 
4 14-oz. cans cream corn _ 2small cans Hunt’s Tomato Paste 
5 lbs. potatoes, cut into small . 1 cup catsup 
quarters — ! | | 


Cover chicken with water and cook until tender. Separate chicken from 
bones. Cook beef and pork in remaining chicken stock. Use salt and pep- 
per to taste. Cook butter beans according to package directions. Drain and 
mash when done. Add chicken and potatoes to pork and beef mixture; 
continue cooking until potatoes are soft. Add tomatoes and cook 20 or 25 
minutes at a slow boil. Add rest of ingredients and simmer for 4 or 444 
hours until thickened, adding water if needed and also additional salt. 
This freezes well. | | | 
i Bill Woodcock 


BARBECUE POT ROAST 
| : | Serves 6 

_ 8-4 Ib. chuck roast | | 3 medium onions 

2 tsp. salt 2 Tbsp. brown sugar 

1% tsp. black pepper | %4 Tbsp. dry mustard 

3 Tbsp. fat 1 cup lemon juice 

% cup water my | % cup catsup 

1 8-oz. can tomato sauce : '’% cup vinegar 


1 Tbsp. worcestershire sauce 


Rub meat with salt and pepper; brown in hot fat. Add water, tomato 
sauce, thinly sliced onions and cook 1% hours covered at 300°. Com- 
bine remaining ingredients and pour over meat. Continue cooking one 
hour or until meat is tender. Remove meat to hot platter, skin meat of 
_ fat. For gravy, dilute the drippings, thicken with flour mixed with water. 
Heat until thickened and pour over the meat. 


Sledge Daniel 
POT ROAST 
as Np Serves 8 
3-4 lb. pot roast (shoulder, = = =—- 2: Thsp. tomato paste 
rump, etc.) SHANI ARY hats 1 tsp. garlic salt 
1 onion, sliced _ Tet 4-6 carrots 
1 can beef broth | ie 8 small white potatoes 
1 cup red wine (Burgundy is good) 2-3 Tbsp. flour 


Brown roast in small amount of oil. Remove from pan. Cook onion un- 
til soft. Drain oil from pan. In pan put meat, onions, beef broth, wine, 
tomato paste, garlic salt and enough water to cover. Simmer two-three 
hours until tender. Thirty minutes before done, add carrots, cut in strips, 
and eight small white potatoes quartered. Before serving, thicken with 
two-three Tbsp. flour. tt | 

Mrs. Cleveland Cherry 

(Judy Kincheloe) 


114 


RARE ROAST BEEF 


Preheat oven to 500°. Cook roast five Dantes per lb. Turn ort oven Vane 

leave door closed for two hours. Do not peek! This is rare all the way — 

through and delicious. | 
Mrs. Alewander P. Thorpe fl 
Cans Gray Calhoun) 


BEEF ROAST 
(EYE ROUND) 


1 lb. roast serves 4 


Cover roast with prepared mustard. Place on ual (if covered) or in roast- 
ing pan if cooked in oven. Add two cups water if cooking inside and cook 
at 350°. Use meat thermometer for desired doneness. May be served as 
a roast hot or sliced thin and served cold for sandwiches. 
Mrs. Bill Kincheloe 
(Marty Purvis) 


BEEF STROGANOFF | ) 
| : i _ Serves 6 
2 Ibs. sirloin of beef 2/3 cup tomato juice . 
Flour, salt and pepper  % cup sherry 
1/3 cup butter 14%cups water _ 
3 medium onions, sliced 2/3 cup sour cream 


14 lb. mushrooms, sliced 


Cut meat in bite size cubes. Dredge with flour. Brown quickly in butter in 
heavy pot; sometimes additional butter is necessary. Remove meat. Add 
onions and mushrooms, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Add tomato juice, 
sherry and water. Bring. to a boil; cover and simmer two hours or until 
meat is tender. Check for additional salt and pepper. Stir in sour cream. 
Serve at once over parsley rice or buttered noodles. May be frozen before 
adding sour cream. Do this immediately before serving. 


Mrs. Mac Hines — 
| (Hadley Morgan) 


‘SIRLOIN SURPRISE 


i | | Serves 4 
1% lbs. boneless sirloin diene Bali 2 Tbsp. sherry | 
2 Tbsp. butter or margarine PRE VAY, 1 clove garlic, minced © 
1 can golden mushroom soup | 1 bay leaf 
1 cup water : i ula Re 16-02. can whole green beans 


Cut meat into hineh ines and dual in butter. Pour in soup, water and 
sherry. Add garlic and bay leaf. Cook covered for one hour over low heat. 
Chill overnight and reheat. 20; 30 minutes before serving, adding beans 
the last 10 minutes. | | | 
, Mrs. Myles Gaythwaite 
aa Davenport) 


115 


EASY BEEF STROGANOFF 
Serves 5 
4 Tbsp. butter | 1 envelope dry onion soup mix 
1 Ib. round steak, cut in thin strips 1 3-0z. can chopped mushrooms 
Flour | | with broth 
Salt and pepper ef | % cup sherry 
1 10°4-oz. can condensed cream 1 cup sour cream 


of mushroom soup 


Melt butter. Toss steak in flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Brown in 
butter. Add mushroom soup, onion soup, mushrooms and broth, and 
sherry. Cover and bake 1% hours at 300°. Ten minutes before serving, 
stir in sour cream. Serve over rice or noodles. May be cooked in micro- 
wave oven for about 20 minutes. Stir in sour cream just before serving. 
Left-over cooked roast beef may be used in place of steak. 
Mrs. John H. High 
(Caroline Hunton) 


SAUERBRATEN 
rie Serves 8 
5 cups vinegar | 6 bay leaves 
5 cups water 6 whole black peppers 
3 onions, sliced ; 3 Tbsp. salt | 
6-10 lb. chuck roast 


1 lemon, sliced 
12 whole cloves 
Combine above ingredients and soak roast in brine 48 hours. (If five cups 
each of vinegar and water are not enough to cover roast, use more in equal 
parts). Remove roast and sear in skillet. Put in roaster and roast at 325° 
for two hours. Use drippings and reserve brine for delicious brown gravy. 
Mrs. Jack Laughery 
(Helen Herboth) 


EASY SAUERBRATEN 


Serves 3-4 
1% Ibs. round steak | % tsp. salt 
1 Tbsp. fat 14 tsp. pepper 
1 envelope brown gravy mix ‘2 tsp. ginger 
2 cups water ) | 1 tsp. worcestershire sauce 
1 Tbsp. instant minced onion | 1 bay leaf 
iN Hot buttered noodles 


2 Tbsp. white wine vinegar 
2 Tbsp. brown sugar . | 
Cut meat in 1” squares. In a large skillet, brown meat on all sides in 
hot fat. Remove meat from skillet and pour off fat; mix gravy mix and 
water in skillet. Bring to boiling, stirring regularly. Stir in other ingre- 
dients except noodles. Return meat to skillet; cover and simmer 1% hours, 
stirring occasionally. Remove bay leaf. Serve meat over hot buttered 
noodles. ET, 

ma) Mrs. John Jolly 

(Angela Blanton) 


116 


“HUNGARIAN BEEF CASSEROLE UN? 
Serves 4-6 


2 Thsp. oil | Wy oop seasoned salt 

1 lb. round steak Dash of Tabasco net 

Salt and pepper 1. Tbsp. sherry 4 

1 10-oz. can cream of mushroom | 1 dash cracked en pepper 


soup 1 op sour cream 
Ye cup chopped onion ! | 


Cut steak in small strips and bene in a eee to sauce pan Wah : 
tight cover. Sprinkle steak with salt and pepper. Spoon mushroom soup 
over steak and place over simmer heat with lid on pan. Add onion to fat 
and sauté. Place browned onions on meat and soup mixture. Add % cup 
water and Tabasco to skillet. Bring to a boil to dissolve browned bits in 
skillet. Pour over mixture in sauce pan and simmer covered about 45 
minutes. Add sherry, sour cream and cracked pepper. Heat. Serve on rice. — 

Mrs. Gilbert Bell | 

Statesville, N. C. 


DEVILED SWISS STEAK 


: Serves 8 | 
1-3lb.beefroundsteak = j= = 2Tbsp. cooking oil | 
1% tsp. salt . | H 1 6-oz. can mushrooms 
1% tsp. dry mustard | 1 Tbsp. worcestershire sauce 
14 tsp. pepper | 1lcup beef bouillon 


Trim fat from meat. Gannane salt, mustard, and pepper. Sonne over 
meat and pound with mallet. In heavy skillet, brown steak slowly on > 
both sides in hot oil. Drain off excess fat. Drain mushrooms, reserving 
liquid. Add mushroom liquid, bouillon and worcestershire to skillet. 
_ Cover tightly and cook over very low heat for 1°4-2 hours or until tender. | 
Last few minutes, add mushrooms and heat vou Skim fat from 
sauce before serving. | SO Se 


Gail ee 
BEEF TERIYAKI eae 
| bea maine ti | Serves 6-8 
2/3 cups soy sauce © | 1 tsp. ground ginger . Pay 
% cup dry sherry ae Ch 1 clove garlic, minced 
2 Tbsp. sugar 2 Ibs. beef sirloin steak, 14” thick 


Combine above ingredients, except steak. Cut steak in serving size 
pieces and marinate in soy sauce mixture at room temperature for 30 
minutes. Broil 3” from heat for five-seven minutes on each side, basting © 
with marinade two or three times while cooking. _ | 
Mrs. Jack Chesson 
(Sylvia Simpson) — 


117 


SUKIYAKI 
| Serves 4-6 
4 Tbsp. salad oil . 1 can consommé 
1 pkg. frozen spinach, thawed | 14 cup soy sauce 
6 or 8 fresh mushrooms _ 1 whole onion, sliced 
1 cup celery | . 6 scallions 


% Ib. sliced beef (sirloin) 


Heat oil in skillet; add onions and cook 2 minute. Add mushroom for % 
minute. Next brown meat about two minutes; then add remaining ingre- 
dients and cook Or ae to six minutes. Serve over rice. 


Mrs. Walter J. Early 


(Margaret MacDonald) 
BEEF ORIENTAL 
Serves 4 
1 lb. sirloin steak, cut in chunks _ 2 Tbsp. lied onion flakes 
2 tsp. onion salt | 2 cups green pepper, cut in chunks 
1 tsp. pepper | | 1 Tbsp. soy sauce 
14 tsp. butter flavored oie} _ 110-o0z. pkg. frozen sweet peas, 
2 cubes beef bouillon | thawed 


Sprinkle beef with one tsp. onion salt, 2 tsp. pepper. Broil four inches 
from source of heat for five minutes; turn beef once during broiling. Us- 
ing a sauce pan bring bouillon to a ‘boil. Add onion flakes, peppers, soy 
sauce and remaining onion salt and pepper. Cook over medium heat for 
four minutes. Add peas and butter flavored salt. Cook an additional three 
minutes or until vegetables are tender but still crisp; drain most of liquid 
(about 75%). Add beet Cook until mixture is well blended and heated 
throughout. 
Mrs. Johnny Wooten 


(Pat Farris) 
BEEF INTERNATIONAL 
Serves 6-8 
2 Ibs. round steak, cut into yr aatnaas 1 10%4-oz. can cream of celery soup 
2 Tbsp. butter se cup mayonnaise 
2 medium onions, thinly sliced 1 cup mushrooms 
2 green peppers, cut into 14" strips Salt and pepper to taste 


Brown meat in butter. Add onions and peppers. Cover and simmer 30 
minutes. Add soup, mayonnaise and mushrooms, Season to taste. Heat, 
stirring RECA BLT Serve over egg noodles. Sprinkle lightly with pap- 

 rika. 

Mrs. M. Alexander Biggs 

(Barbara Bone) 


118 


SIRLOIN TIPS SAUTEED IN SHERRY - 


Sores 6. 


24-3 lbs. sirloin steak, trimmed of % cup dry sherry 

all fat and cut into bite-sized 1 tsp. soy sauce 

pieces _ _ tsp. seasoning salt 
1 Thsp. margarine Dash pepper : 
3-oz. can sliced mushrooms Ne oF apap: chopped parsley 


1 cup beef broth, canned 


Heat margarine in large heavy skillet. Place meat in pan Without over- 
lapping. Brown about five minutes, then brown under preheated broiler 
five minutes more or turn meat in pan and brown on stove the additional 
five minutes. Remove meat to a heated serving dish and keep hot. Add 
the mushrooms and their liquid, beef broth, sherry, soy sauce, seasoning 
salt, pepper and parsley. Boil about one minute, scraping pan, and then 
pour over tips. Serve over rice or toast alpen | 


Mrs. James F. Crumpler, Tr)! 
(Stephanie Williams) | 


GREEN PEPPER STEAK _ 


| | | Serves 4 
1 lb. round steak | Soy sauce A ae 
3 green peppers Garlic salt 
3 onions 


Slice peppers and onions in long slices. Cover bottom of frying pan with 
oil; cook onions and peppers approximately 20 minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally. Cut steak into very thin strips, approximately 12” long. Sprinkle 
with garlic salt. In another frying pan, cover bottom with oil and brown 
meat (approximately five minutes); add 1 glass of water and several 
dashes soy sauce; cover and cook over medium heat approximately 25 
minutes. Add onions and peppers to meat and cook together approximate- 
ly 20 minutes more, stirring occasionally. Serve over rice. | 


Mrs. John D. Langley, Jr. 
(Bobbi Jean Pullen) 


| BEEF AND NOODLES 


2 Ibs. top round steak, he in 1%” _ 2 tsp. Adolf meat tenderizer. 
cubes | - 1 ean cream of mushroom soup 

2 Tbsp. margarine | if 1 can onion soup — 

2 Tbsp. worcestershire sauce sry te ‘ 1 8-0z. pkg. narrow egg noodles | 


Trim any fat from steak and pound for about 10 minutes. Cut diagonal- 

ly into cubes. Melt butter and add worcestershire sauce. Brown beef in 
butter and sauce after adding tenderizer. Pour both cans of soup over 
beef. Do not add water to soup. Bring to boil and be sure all beef is 
covered with sauce. Reduce heat to simmer, and simmer one hour. Cook 
noodles by package directions. Pour beef and sauce over noodles. 


Mrs. Ray L. Bryant 


119 


SHISH KABOB 
| Serves 8 
2 lbs. boneless lamb 2 tsp. salt 
2 Tbsp. salad oil ; | % tsp. pepper 
1 Thsp. vinegar % tsp. oregano 
1 Tbsp. lemon juice % tsp. ground mustard 


Marinate lamb for several hours at room temperature. Skewer with 
onions, tomatoes and peppers. Can be prepared ahead of time. Grill over 
charcoal until meat is cooked as desired. 
Mrs. James F. Crumpler, Jr. 
(Stephanie Williams) 


STUFFED CABBAGE ROLLS 


| Serves 6 
1 large head cabbage 2 eggs 
2 tsp. salt ! 2 Tbsp. Ndepcwed rice 
1 lb. ground chuck % cup lemon juice 
2 Tbsp. chopped onion % cup brown sugar 
1% tsp. black pepper | 1 15-0z. can Herb Tomato Sauce 


2 Tbsp. sugar 


Cut core from cabbage. Place food in boiling salted water and cook, 
pulling off outer leaves with tongs as they wiit. (You will need about 10 
large leaves). Mix together 4 cup water, 2 tsp. salt, beef, and next six 
ingredients. Put about %4 cup meat mixture on each cabbage leaf, roll 
up and tuck in edges. Arrange in large casserole dish. Cut up remaining 
cabbage and place between cabbage rolls. Sprinkle with brown sugar 
and pour on tomato sauce. Bake, covered, 142 hours at 350°. These 
cabbage rolls can be frozen. 

Mrs. Benny Johnson 

(Joyce Maloney) 


STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS I 


1% Ib. ground auabk % cup tomato sauce or puree 
» large onion 1 10%-oz. can tomato sauce 
1 egg or puree 

34 cup rice or oatmeal 6-8 green peppers 


Mix the ground chuck, grated onion, egg, rice or oatmeal and ‘2 cup 
tomato sauce or puree. ‘Cut off top of peppers, stuff with above mixture. 
Place in an iron skillet. Add can of tomato sauce or puree, and 1 can of 
water. Simmer peppers in sauce mixture for 112 hours. Turn sideways 
occasionally; keep lid on pot. | 
| Mrs. Reid McAuley 
(Betty Robbins) 


120 


STUFFED PEPPERS Il 


| Serves 8 ) 
1 small onion, chopped Wt! 2 cups yeataee! | 
8 green peppers | 2D bsp. fat | 
1 lb. ground beef ! | Salt and peeps to taste 


1% cup corn 


Brown onions and meat in fat. Add corn and bias Stuff into pan 

pers that have tops cut off and seeds cleaned out. Bake Blowiy at 250° i 

for about 2 lion | 
‘Mrs. Richard S. Gorham 
(Grace Wardlow) | 


STUFFED PEPPERS Hea | 


6 green peppers . 3 Tbsp. flour 


2 cups chopped chicken or ground tsp. salt 
veal 1% cup evaporated milk | 
3 Tbsp. margarine  % cup greet onions 
2/3 cup butter crumbs (2 bine Arai 
butter) 


Cut tops from peppers. Remove carefully all the on and the Loh eHe | 
Cut thin slice from the bottoms so that peppers will stand. Melt the 
butter and add the flour and salt. Pour in milk and onions. Add meat 
and mix well. Fill peppers with the mixture. Cover with crumbs made 
by stirring bread crumbs into 2 Tbsp. of melted butter. Place the peppers 
into a baking pan and cover the LW eyag with boiling water. Bake 1 in a 
350° oven for 30 minutes. TET, Fe Bea 


Mrs. Bay a Dik Bryant i 


MEAT LOAF Lie org | 
Wi | Serves 6 

1%-2 lbs. ground chuck | pg ee Tbsp. Heinz savory sauce Swe 8 
1 egg ith 2 Tbsp. A-1 sauce | 
1 slice bread torn into little bits --- 1 small onion, chopped © 
% cup milk i Ware 1 tsp. salt _ | 
% cup catsup Mm tsp. pepper Mi Hee 
2 Tbsp. worcestershire sauce _ Chopped bell pepper, if desired egad 


Mix beaten egg into Leslie beak Put bread bits into cup. Cover ith! 
milk. Let bread absorb most of milk and get good and soggy. Add to 
meat. Then add catsup, salt, pepper and sauces. Work in chopped onion 
and pepper. Turn into loaf dish and pat into loaf shape. Toe esd Popping: | 


Topping — 


2 Tbsp. dark brown sugar i gig 2 Tbsp. mustard 
2 Tbsp. catsup AN Py 


Mix above into a pela Ice meat loaf baith| it, Bie in 350° ° oven for 1 
hour uncovered. | 


‘Mes ee Knight | 
(Alice Diehl Fain 


121 


MEAT LOAF II 
| Serves 6 
1% lbs. ground beef | - 1 cup saltine crumbs 
1 can tomato soup _ : 83 eggs 
‘4 cup chopped green pepper 2 Tbsp. worcestershire sauce 
% cup chopped onion .  etsp. salt 
% cup chopped pickle | | wa % tsp. pepper 


“uti all ingredients and put in loaf pan lined with foil. Cook at 350° for 
our. ya | 


Mrs. John E. Wall, Jr. 
Greensboro, N.C. 


EASY MEAT LOAF 


1% lbs. ground meat act! Minced onion 
1 egg _ 1 can Spanish rice 


Mix ground meat, egg, minced onion, and Spanish rice together. Form 
into loaf and bake in 350° oven for 1% hours. 
Mrs. Steve Wright 
(Mary Jeffress) 


HAMBURGER STEAKS STUFFED WITH 
BLUE CHEESE 


? Serves 4 
1% lbs. ground chuck ) 1 small can mushrooms 
8 Tbsp. blue (or roquefort) cheese, = —- 1 small onion, chopped (optional) 
crumbled : 3 Salt and pepper 


_ Make 8 very thin, but fairly large in diameter, beef patties. On each of 

four of these patties, place two Tbsp. cheese crumbles. Cover with a 
plain patty, pinching edges together well to seal. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Place in large frying pan over medium heat. Cover and cook 15 min- 
utes, then turn patties and cook another 10 minutes. Pour mushrooms 
over meat and cook a few minutes longer until mushrooms are heated 
through. If using onions, add when you turn meat. 

| \ Mrs. vim Knight - 


| : (Alice Diehl Barnes) 
FAKE STEAK 
7 Fe ty hahaa Se Serves 4 
1 lb. ground beef . . | 1 Tbsp. worcestershire sauce 
% cup catsup ; Salt and pepper to taste 
W%tsp. garlic powder sy 4 slices bacon 


1 tsp. dried minced onion © 


Mix all ingredients, except bacon, and form into four patties. Wrap with 
bacon and secure with toothpick. Broil until done, approximately five 
minutes on each side. Broil longer if desired well done. May be made up, 
frozen and broiled later. 
Me bic Mrs. B. J. Wallace 
(Carol Threatt) 


122 


PIZZA BURGERS 1a 
| COLD | Serves 8 
8 seeded buns  8-oz. can contadina pizza sauce 
2 lbs. hamburger, shaped into - Grated Parmesan cheese 
8 patties | Salt and pepper 
8-oz. pkg. sliced mozzarella cheese, Mustard 


cut into narrow strips 


Cook hamburgers in large skillet. Turn once and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper on cooked side of hamburger. Drain off all liquid. Put one Tbsp. 
pizza sauce on each burger. Next layer strips of mozzarella cheese. Cover 
until cheese melts. Add one tsp. pizza sauce on top of melted cheese. 
eae with Parmesan wets Serve on warm seeded buns with mus- 
tar 

Judge Tom H. Matthews 


HAMBURGER AND BURGUNDY WINE 
| | Serves 6 
1 glove of garlic a OEE 


Ground beef Salt 
% cup Bueenidy wine 


Sauté in oil one clove of garlic. Make small eee Tae patties and brown 
in oil. Salt patties while cooking. Add 2 cup Burgundy wine and simmer 
until done and all the wine is absorbed. 

Mrs. Ed Solan 

(Ruth Correll). 


| BEEF TACOS 


. : sia Serves 6 
1 lb. ground beef var %, tsp. rosemary _ My 
1 medium onion, finely chopped 4 tsp. pepper 
1% tsp. chili powder tsp. salt 
1» tap. oregano : Nidal : 2 tsp. worcestershire sauce 


% tsp. paprika 


Brown meat; add onion and spices. Blend well and eat thoroughly. 
Serve on crisp tortillas with chopped tomatoes, shredded oc grated 
cheddar, and guacamole. ! 


| Guacamole 
Avacado, mashed UA 1 tsp. garlic powder 
4 cup mayonnaise | Ce tsp. lemon j juice — 


Mix all ingredients EHonauetily. You may also use canned taco sauce 
(J alopenp) very sparingly. | 
Mra. Wik: Holding 
_ (Peggy Vick) | 





123 


TACOS 


3 | Serves 6 

1 10-o0z. can enchilada sauce, hot 2 pkgs. frozen tortillas, thawed 

or mild depending on taste Grated cheese 
1 7%-oz. or 10%-0z. can jalapeno | Chopped onion 

bean dip, depending on brand Chopped tomatoes 

used 1 10-oz. can tomatoes and green 
1 7'2-oz. can black olives, pitted chilies. 
1% lbs. ground beef 1 7'4-oz. can jalapeno relish 


Shortening 


I. Brown ground beef; add enchilada sauce, bean dip, and chopped black 
olives. Allow this mixture to cool before starting tortillas. 

Il. Cover bottom of electric frying pan with melted shortening and heat 
to 420°. Fry thawed tortilla on one side about 10 seconds and turn. Place 
a rounded Tbsp. of meat mixture on tortilla and fold in half. Fry on both 
sides of fold until brown and crisp. Drain on paper towels. 

III. On the table: bowls of grated cheese, onion, and tomatoes. As a sub- 
stitute for fresh tomatoes, a can of tomatoes and green chilies and for 
those who like their Mexican food hot, a can of jalapeno relish. Tacos are 
better if served as they are cooked. 3 : 


Mrs. J. Michael Evans 


(Pam Daniel) 
SOUR CREAM ENCHILADAS 
! RN Serves 6 
1 doz. frozen corn tortillas iy 2 cups grated cheddar cheese 
2 10-0z. cans enchilada sauce 2 cups cooked and shredded chuck 
i 8-oz. carton sour cream i roast (may use leftover) 
Shredded lettuce 


Dip each thawed tortilla into half of the enchilada sauce. Fill with one 
spoon of sour cream, meat, and cheese. Fold over each side, turn, and 
wrap in foil. May be frozen at this point. To Serve: Heat in 350° oven 
after pouring the other can of enchilada sauce over the top. Garnish with 
more grated cheese and shredded lettuce. Serve with tacos and refried 
beans. | 

Mrs. John Hammond 

(Anna Spruill) 


QUICK LASAGNA 
Adib Serves 4-5 
1 box Chef Boy-ar-dee Lasagna | § oz. cheddar cheese, shredded 
Dinner 1 8-oz. can tomato sauce, either 
% lb. ground beef plain or with mushrooms 


Preheat oven to 425°. Follow directions on box and just add the extra 
ground beef, cheese and tomato sauce in between the layers of noodles. 
I use a “loaf” pan for this. Bake at 425° for about 15 minutes. Children 
and Daddys usually love this! Can be frozen. 
| Mrs. Jay Elliot 
(Ginger Groobey) 


124 


FOUR CHEESE PaenGNs 

| an ee 8- 10 
1 Ib. cheddar cheese 110-oz. can cream of mushroom 
34 lb. Romano or Swiss cheese soup ! 
1 lb. Mozarella cheese _ 2 10-oz. cans tonite soup | ea Ae 
Parmesan cheese Salt, pepper and granulated garlic oan 
2 Ibs. ground beef , to taste ie 
2 medium bell peppers, chopped 1 1-Ib. box wide lasagna noodles 


2 medium onions, chopped 


Grate cheeses and keep separated. Brown beef, onions wind bell pepper; eat H 
off excess fat. Add soups and seasoning to browned mixture. Cook noodles 
according to package directions adding one Tbsp. cooking oil to keep from. 
sticking and drain. In greased lasagna pan, place small amount of sauce 
mix, layer of noodles; spread sauce mix over, sprinkle cheeses over sauce. Re-_ 
peat layers until all is used up ending with cheese. Sprinkle with parsley 
flakes for color if desired. Bake one hour in 350° oven. May be made. 
ahead-—freezes well. 

Mrs. B. J. Wallace 

(Carol Threatt) 


SPAGHETTI SUPREME | eee 
| Hi _ Serves 16. 
4 Tbsp. bacon fat | 2 pkgs. vermicelli spaghetti 
2 lbs. ground beef 1 lb. grated cheese | 
1 large white onion | 1 small can mushrooms 
1 clove garlic 1 cup chopped olives 
.2 green peppers Parmesan cheese 
3 #2 cans tomatoes Worcestershire sauce 


Sieve tomatoes, season to taste with salt, pepper, Worcestershire sauce, 
Let simmer. In 4 Tbsp. bacon fat, brown chopped onions, garlic and pep- 
pers. Add ground beef, after removing the onions, garlic and peppers. 
Add seasonings to beef and cook until well done. Add meat, onions, 
etc., to the tomatoes. Cook spaghetti about 20 minutes in salted water. 
Drain and rinse. Pour tomato and meat mixture over spaghetti. Put 
into oven at 300°, stirring after Y% hour. Before serving, add mushrooms, 
olives and grated cheese. Cheese may Pe sharp or muld. Spiele with 
Parmesan cheese and serve > while hot. | iV 
Mee. Leon J. Veleron 
(Nancy Gamble) | 








125 


COMPANY SPAGHETTI CASSEROLE 


, Serves 4 
7 oz. spaghetti Y% cup sour cream 
1% lb. ground beef pe 2 scallions, chopped fine 
2 8-oz. cans tomato sauce 1 tsp. green pepper, chopped fine 


% lb. cottage cheese Salt and pepper to taste 
8 oz. cream cheese | 


Cook spaghetti and drain. Saute beef, remove grease; add tomato sauce. 
Salt to taste and remove from heat. Combine cottage cheese, cream 
cheese, sour cream, scallions and green pepper. Mix cheese mixture with 
the cooked spaghetti. Butter a 2-qt. casserole dish; put spaghetti mix- 
ture in. Top with ground beef mixture. Cook uncovered at 350° for 45 
minutes, This may be made ahead and frozen until ready to use. 

Mrs. Robert Tuttle 


(Beth Keel) 
BAKED SPAGHETTI 
me Serves 6 

3 strips bacon, fried He 2 Tbsp. catsup 
1 onion browned in bacon grease % tsp. Texas Pete 
1 can #2 tomatoes el 1 Tbsp. A-1 Sauce 
14 lb. ground beef | 2 tsp. chili powder 
2 Thsp. Worcestershire sauce Spaghetti noodles 


Cheddar and Mozarella cheese 


Fry bacon; brown onion in grease. Add tomatoes, ground beef; crumble 
up bacon into mixture. Add Worchestershire sauce, catsup, Texas Pete, 
A-1 Sauce, and chili powder. Cook sauce for 25-30 minutes. Cook spa- 
ghetti noodles. Alternate in layers in greased casserole dish—sauce, 
noodles, grated American cheese and Mozarella cheese, ending with 
cheese on top. Bake at 350° for 45 minutes. | 
) rH Mrs. Gordon Waters, Jr. 
(Patricia Alexander) 


ITALIAN CASSEROLE 


Anat Serves 6 
1 carton cottage cheese 1 tsp. sugar — 
1 3-oz. pkg. cream cheese | 1 chopped onion 
1 carton sour cream AVL RU 2 1-Ib. cans spaghetti sauce 


y with mushrooms 
1 8-oz. pkg. thin egg noodles 
_ Sharp grated cheese to cover 


1 onion, chopped 
1 lb. ground beef 
1 tsp. salt 


Mix cottage cheese, cream cheese, sour cream and one chopped onion 
and let stand one hour. Brown beef and onion. Add spaghetti sauce and 
salt and sugar. Simmer 20 minutes. Boil noodles. Put layer of spaghetti 
sauce mixture, layer of noodles, all of cheese mixture, layer of spaghetti 
sauce, layer of noodles, layer of spaghetti sauce. Cover entire top with 
sharp grated cheese. Cook 30 minutes at 350°. May be made and stored 
in freezer, or kept in refrigerator all day. 
Pearl Settlemyre 


126 


MOUSSAKA_ 


ea UMeerves 6 
1 eggplant 34 cup cheddar cheese, grated | 
1 large onion, chopped Ye tsp. pepper 
% green pepper, chopped 1 tsp. salt 
1 Ib. ground beef. 2 tsp. sugar 


1 can tomato sauce | ‘4 cup cheddar cheese | 
1 cup toasted bread crumbs | Few drops Tabasco | 
(I use Pepperidge Farm) 


Brown beef and remove from pan. Saute onion and pepper; whan clear, 
pour off grease. Add tomato sauce and seasonings. Peel and dice egg- 
plant; cover with boiling salted water and cook until tender (10 minutes). 
Drain and combine with meat and sauce. Add bread crumbs and cheese. 
Mix well. Pour into casserole and top with remaining cheese. Cover and 
cook at 350° for % hour. Remove top and brown. Can be made day ahead 
and kept in refrigerator. It also freezes well. 

Emily D. Bobbitt 

Web Hill Farm 

Rockbridge Baths, Virginia 


CHILI CON CARN E 


Serves 4 
1 lb. ground beef 1 8-oz. can tomato sauce 
1 cup chopped onion 1 tsp. salt 
1 16-0z. can tomatoes 2 tsp. chili powder 
1 16-0z. can kidney beans, | 
drained 


Cook meat and onion Gail meat is lightly booed and onion is tender. } 

Stir in remaining ingredients. Cover and simmer one hour, | 
Mrs. John E. Warren 
(Vivian Williams) 


CAJUN CHILI CON CARNE cue 
- Serves 10 | 


3 large bell peppers } 2 15-o0z. cans tomatoes 

4 large onions aN 1 15-0z. can tomato sauce 

8 stalks of celery | if . i pkg. French’s chili dry ee 
24 lbs. ground beef i) mix 
ltsp. salt | aaa 3 15-0z. cans kidney beans 

1 Tbsp. crushed ed pepper Dash of Tabasco 

4 Thsp. hot chili powder ‘1 Light sprinkle of cayenne 


Dice bell peppers, onions ad celery. Place in large greased diteH ic oven, us 
add one cup water. Cover and cook 30 minutes on low heat or until tender; 0% 
add water as needed. Brown beef in separate pan and drain. Add remain- | 
ing ingredients, except kidney beans, to peppers, onions and celery. Now — 
add browned beef. Cook over low heat for at least one hour; fold often to 
prevent sticking. Add kidney beans approximately 15 minutes before 
serving. | 
John D. Langley, Jr. 


127 


GOULASH 
6 pieces fried, crisp bacon, drained 1 Ib. ground chuck 
and crumbled 1 can tomato soup 
2 onions, chopped | 1 can red kidney beans 
% cup chopped celery . Salt, pepper and red hot sauce 
1 green pepper, chopped to taste 


After frying bacon, sauté onions, celery and green pepper in the bacon 

grease. Add ground chuck and cook until done but not brown. Add tomato 

soup and let simmer for five minutes. Add kidney beans and the crumbled 

bacon. Season to taste. Let simmer about 15 minutes. Serve with Par- 

mesan cheese, hush puppies and a green salad. This recipe freezes well. 
Branson Hobbs 


HAMBURGER GOULASH + 


! Serves 4-6 
1 Ib. ground beef 1 small jar chopped pimento * 
% lb. cheddar cheese 1 small can thowied mushrooms * 
3 small onions | vA 8 oz. shell macaroni 
1 can Campbell’s tomato soup _ Salt, black pepper and red pepper 
1% soup can water to taste 


Brown beef in heavy pot. Dice onions and add to beef. Cook until onions 
are tender. Add soup, water, salt and pepper. Continue cooking over low 
heat. Add mushrooms and pimento. In boiling salted water, cook maca- 
roni according to directions. Drain and add to the mixture. Cut cheese in 
small pieces. Stir into mixture and continue cooking until the cheese is 
melted and mixed well. Cover and simmer for 15 minutes. 
| Mrs. Mac Hines 
(Hadley Morgan) 


CHOP SUEY 
Serves 6-8 


3 large or 4 medium white 
onions, chopped 
La Choy soy sauce 


1% lbs. ground beef 
%4 Ib. ground pork 
1 stalk celery, chopped 


Brown meat over low heat for approximately one hour. Add onions and 
celery. Continue cooking for at least 30-45 minutes. 15 minutes before 
done, add 1/3 of small bottle of La Choy soy sauce. Serve over rice. Ad- 
ditional soy sauce may be added at the table. 

Mrs. B. Thomas James 

(Retha Kermon) 





128 


AMERICAN CHOP SUBY 


Serves 6 
3 strips bacon, cut into pieces oe cups chopped cae | 
1 lb. ground beef | ‘1 tsp. salt wt 
1 onion, chopped :  % tsp. pepper 
1 green pepper, chopped % tsp. Accent 
1 1-lb. can tomatoes ia ’tsp.thyme 
1 cup raw rice igtsp.rosemary 
1 4-oz. can mushrooms | Parmesan cheese 


Tomato juice, if needed 


Brown bacon. Remove ana save. In bacon grease, sauté onions and green 
pepper. Add ground beef and cook until it loses its pink color. Mix ground 
beef mixture, cooked bacon and all other ingredients in a large bowl. 
Pour into casserole and sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Cover. Start 
baking at 400° for 30 minutes, then turn heat down to 325° for one hour. 
If chop suey appears dry near end of cooking time, add a little tomato 
juice. 

Mrs. John E. Wall, oe 

Greensboro, N. C. 


COVERED HAMBURGER AND POTATO CASSEROLE 


| Serves 4 
1 lb. hamburger 3 medium onions 
4 medium potatoes A Salt and pepper 
1 8-oz. can tomato sauce % cup grated cheese 


Brown hamburger. Add chopped onions, tomato sauce and seasonings. 
Mix. Slice potatoes paper thin. Layer baking dish—meat on bottom then > 
layer of potatoes, etc. Sprinkle Hop hein cheese. Bake 450° for 35 min-. 
utes. 

Wea Paul Karseras 


(Jane meant 
HAMBURGER CASSEROLE. 
Wt Serves Oy 
1 lb. hamburger 1 cup grated mild cheddar cheese 
1 onion, chopped i eup milk 
2 cans tomato soup | | 1 can cream of mushroom soup 


8 oz.-pkg egg noodles 


Brown onion and hamburger. Add tomato soup Ae simmer 15 fiver: 
Cook noodles; combine cheese, milk and mushroom soup. Drain noodles — 
and add cheese, milk and mushroom soup mixture. Put in layers in 
greased baking ‘dish, beginning with noodle mixture, then hamburger 
mixture, and winding up with hamburger mixture on top. Bake in 350° © 
oven 20 to 30 minutes. This can be prepared a day before use or can be — 
frozen. : 
Mrs. Harold Winstead 
(Dottie Warren) 


129 


BEEF MACARONI CASSEROLE 


Serves 6 
1 lb. ground beef 2 tsp. mustard 
1/3 cup milk ; . % cup chopped green pepper 
2 eggs % cup mayonnaise 
% cup catsup 1 cup grated cheese 
'% cup chopped onions % cup dry bread crumbs 
1% tsp. salt 2 Tbsp. melted butter 


1 8-oz. pkg. macaroni, cooked 


Mix beef, milk, eggs, catsup, onion and salt. Set aside. Mix cooked maca- 
roni, mustard, pepper and mayonnaise. Spread this mixture in greased 
2-qt. baking dish. Spread beef mixture on top. Sprinkle with cheese and 
top with bread crumbs and butter. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 

Ann Sansbury 


_ BAKED BEANS WITH GROUND BEEF 


Serves 8-10 
1 lb. ground beef ! 1 small bottle catsup 
1 large onion % cup brown sugar 
3 cans medium size 1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
pork and beans | 1 Tbsp. mustard 


Brown ground beef and onion in skillet; add remaining ingredients. Bake 
at 350° for about one hour. | | | | 

Mrs. W. M. Marshburn 

(Patsy Wiley) 


CURRIED HAMBURGER 


Serves 6-8 
2 Ibs. ground chuck | 1 large onion 
1 egg : 2 large green peppers 
1 tsp. Lawry’s seasoned salt | 4 or 5 stalks celery 
% tsp. Lawry’s seasoned pepper 2 cans tomatoes 
2 Tbsp. curry powder _ (Italian pear-shaped) 


Mix chuck, salt, pepper and egg together well; shape into small ball; 
brown in oil. Cut onions, celery and green peppers in 12” pieces. Sauté 
in margarine until vegetables lose crispness. Cut tomatoes into pieces 
or hunks. Drain fat from meat balls; add tomatoes, vegetables and curry 
powder. Simmer in covered pan 30-40 minutes. Serve over rice. 

we) THEA Gaet ea Mrs. Ralph Clark 





130 


HAMBURGER STROGANOFF cuca 
| - Serves 4-6 


14 cup butter 14 tsp. pepper 

1h cup minced onion | 14 tsp. paprika 

1 lb. ground beef 1 1b. mushrooms, sliced 

1 garlic clove, minced (optional) | (canned or fresh) 

2 Tbsp. flour 1 can cream of chicken soup 
2 tsp. salt | 1 cup sour cream | | | 


4 tsp. Accent 


Saute onion, stir in meat, garlic, salt, pepper, Accent. When meat is 
browned, add flour and paprika. When well mixed, add soup and cook 
until soup is blended in well (five minutes). Add mushrooms and saute 
for five minutes. Remove from heat and add sour cream. This looks 
long and complicated, but takes less than 30 minutes to prepare. For a 
really different dish, serve this on a bed of Chinese noodles and rice. 
Add a tossed salad. 

Mrs. Poy Henderson, dr. 

(Emily Dean) 


MEAT AND NOODLE CASSEROLE 


Serves 8-10 
2 Ibs. ground beef 1% tsp. salt 
1 stick butter, divided , 1 2-lb. jar spaghetti sauce with 
114%-cup dried celery meat flavor 
1% cup diced onion | Ye jar water 
1 large green pepper, chopped 1 8-oz. pkg. Ronco egg noodles 
1 1034-0z. can tomato soup Grated cheese for topping _ 


In frying pan, melt 4 stick butter. Cook celery, onions, green pepper until 
soft. Melt the other 4 stick butter, add meat and cook until gray. Add 
tomato soup and sauce. Cook noodles according to directions on package. 
Mix all together. Pour into large baking dish. Cover top with cheese. This — 
is nice to make ahead of time. Freezes well, too. 

Mrs. John M. MacRae 

(Mabel amie he 


HAMBURGER SKILLET DISH 


_ Serves 6 

% cup uncooked rice | : Paphed to taste 
piri See | as 1 tsp. ndntote) i 

. ground bee 1 cup bouillon 
1% cup onion, chopped ey eat } 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
’ cup celery, chopped | 1-1% tsp. chili powder 
1 #2 can tomatoes HIN Dash Tabasco sauce 
2 tsp. salt 


Brown rice slowly in hot fat in a Wea skillet, eaves frequently. Add 

ground beef, onion and celery. Brown well. Add tomatoes and other ingre- _ 

dients. Cover and simmer until rice is tender, about 45 minutes. _ a 
Mrs. Fred M. Dunstan hee 
ee Ross) 


131 


CHEROKEE CASSEROLE 


Serves 4-6 
1 lb. ground beef Ye tsp. thyme 
% cup chopped onion 1 can tomatoes or sauce 
1% tsp. salt 1 can cream of mushroom soup 
Dash of pepper. 1 cup Minute Rice 
’ tsp. oregano | 2-3 slices American cheese 
% tsp. garlic powder 6-12 sliced olives 


Brown meat, add onions; stir in seasonings, tomato and soup. Add rice; 
bring to a boil; reduce heat and simmer five minutes. Place in baking 
dish and top with strips of cheese. Broil until cheese melts; add olives. 


Evelyn Farris 


SICILEAN MEAT ROLL | 


Serves 8 
2 eggs 1 small clove garlic, crushed 
3% cup soft bread crumbs (optional) 
1 cup tomato juice 2 lbs. lean ground beéf 
2 Tbsp. parsley 8 thin slices boiled ham 
% tsp. oregano | 6 oz. shredded Mozzarella cheese 
4 tsp. salt 3 additional slices Mozzarella 
1% tsp. pepper cheese 


Combine first eight ingredients. Stir in ground beef and mix well. On 
foil, pat meat into a 12” x 10” rectangle. Arrange ham on top. Leave 
small margin on edges. Sprinkle shredded Mozzarella over top. Start 
from short end and roll up meat. Seal edges and ends. Place roll seam 
side down in 13” x 9” x 2” pan. Bake at 350° for one hour 15 minutes. 
(Center of meat will be pink due to ham.) Place sliced cheese cut diago- 
nally over top. Cook five minutes more until cheese melts. 

Mrs. Jack Brake 

(Kathryn Jones) 


WILD RICE AND HAMBURGER CASSEROLE 


1-1/3 cups wild rice 14 tsp. celery salt 

1 qt. boiling water 14 tsp. paprika 

1 can cream of mushroom soup 14 tsp. onion salt 

1 cup chopped onions | 4 tsp. curry powder 

1 can mushrooms | . 4 tsp. salad herbs 

2 lbs. ground beef 14 tsp. garlic powder 

1/3 cup olive oil ¥ 8 oz. shredded Mozzarella cheese 


1 small bay leaf 


Pour boiling water over rice and let stand 15 minutes. Sauté onions in 
olive oil. Add beef and brown. Add rice and seasonings, soup and mush- 
rooms. Bake at 350° for 1% hours. 30 minutes before done, add cheese— 
4 mixed into casserole and % sprinkled on top. Finish baking. This is 
best made day before, but do not add soup and mushrooms until just be- 
fore baking. 

Mrs. Sam Douglas, Jr. 

(Gail Barksdale) 


132 


BARBECUED BEEF 
6 lbs. stewing beef . | 5 Tbsp. vinegar 
3 medium onions | ! SAO ME 1% cups water 
1 green pepper 1 Thsp. salt 
1 stalk celery | | | 1 tsp. pepper. 
1 family size catsup | pe cup barbecue sauce 


Brown. beef in frying pan with a small amount of oil. Dice onions and i 
green pepper and sauté; drain off any excess fat. Place beef cooked in 
onions and green pepper into a roasting pan which has a cover. Add 
catsup, vinegar, water, salt, pepper, and barbecue sauce. Stir until ingre- 
dients are well mixed. Cover and cook in 350° oven for six hours. When 
the beef falls apart it is done. Barbecued beef should be checked while it 
is cooking to avoid drying out; if necessary, add water two or three times 
as needed. If beef is to be warmed up later, add some water, Good for 
sandwich on bun. ) 


Mrs. James T. Clack 


SAVORY SAUSAGE CASSEROLE 


| his Serves 6 
1 lb. bulk sausage (good brand, 14 cup finely chopped onion 
not too salty) | 1 cup sliced celery 
1 cup uncooked rice 3 cups water 
. 2 2-0z. pkgs. dehydrated chicken | 1 Tbsp. soy sauce : 
noodle soup % cup toasted halved or slivered 


blanched almonds 


Break nee the sausage and brown in ungreased skillet; pour off excess 
fat as it accumulates. Remove from burner. Mix together the sausage, 
rice, soup, onion, and celery and place in a 2-qt. casserole. Refrigerate. 
When ready to bake, ‘mix soy sauce with water and add this, with the 
almonds, to the casserole. ‘Mix all gently. Cover and bake at 350° for one 
hour or in a microwave oven for 20 minutes. This recipe freezes well, is 
inexpensive and a, feat 
| Mrs. Lyle Crumpler 
(Leslie Cloyes) 


_ FOOTBALL CASSEROLE _ 


: : | | Serves 6 | 
%4 cup macaroni, cooked with -- 1 small can tomato sauce HY 
salt and water 3. or 4 drops Tabasco sauce to taste 
1 pkg. Brown ’n Serve sausages, Pinch of oregano, salt and pepper, 
cut in small pieces CANT iM to taste , 


Mix above ingredients; top ah Pecan cheese any does of buiter Bake | 
at 350° for 30 minutes until top is crusty. May prepare in advences, re- 
frigerate until baking. It noe be frozen after baking. atta Ay. 


Ann A. Erwin 


133 


SAUSAGE CASSEROLE 


Serves 6 
1 lb. pork sausage % tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 small green pepper, chopped 1 large onion, chopped 
1 20-o0z. can tomatoes, mashed, Dash of paprika 
but not drained %4 pkg. (6 oz.) cooked egg noodles, 
4 hay leaves drained 


Parmesan cheese 


Crumble sausage and cook slowly until brown. Remove from pan and 
drain. Sauté pepper and onions until fat and glossy. Add other ingre- 
dients to onions and pepper and simmer for five minutes. Cook the 
noodles and drain. Mix all ingredients together with the noodles and put 
in a greased casserole dish. Cover top with Parmesan cheese. Bake un- 
covered for 45 minutes at 350° until cheese melts. Children as well as 
adults usually love this dish and it can easily be doubled and frozen for 
later use. : 
Mrs. Edward Curtis Daniel, -Jr. 
(Martha Weeks) 


CHICAGO SAUSAGE CASSEROLE 


1 lb. sausage meat, hot or mild, . 4 tap. oregano 
depending on taste 1% tsp. thyme 

1 lb. fresh mushrooms, sliced % tsp. marjoram 

2 medium orions tsp. salt 

2 cups cooked wild rice | ) 4 tsp. pepper 

2 10%4-oz. cans cream of chicken soup 2 drops Tabasco 

1 tsp. monosodium glutemate % cup slivered almonds 


Saute sausage; drain. Reserve fat. Break sausage into small pieces. Saute 
mushrooms and onions in reserved fat. Drain. Mix sausage and mush- 
rooms in onions in large casserole. Add soup, wild rice and spices. Mix 
well. Cover with slivered almonds. Bake uncovered at 350° for 25-30 


minutes. 
Mrs. Jack Laughery 


(Helen Herboth) 
SAUERKRAUT AND SAUSAGES 
Serves 4 
4 slices rye bread 4 Knockwurst sausages 
Mustard NRT a 4 slices Swiss cheese 


Mayonnaise ~ 1 lb. can sauerkraut 

Heat sauerkraut and sausages together. Spread bread with small 
amount of mustard and mayonnaise mixture. Slice each heated Knock- 
wurst in two pieces. Place one slice Swiss cheese and two slices of Knock- 
wurst on each piece of bread. Place under broiler for three minutes for 
cheese to melt. Serve with heated sauerkraut on top. 

. : Mrs. Frank Harrison 
(Josephine Vann) 


134 


FRANKFURTER CASSEROLE 
a na ie 
2 Tbsp. butter or margarine | 4 oz. uncooked noodles 
8 hot dogs, cut into 3 pieces each 1 10%4-oz. can undiluted ain ost soup 
% cup diced onion 


Preheat frying pan. Add butter: melt. Add hot dogs and onions. 
Brown, stirring frequently. Add noodles and soup. Add a little water if 
needed to moisten everything. Stir well. When boiling, cover and simmer 
about 15 minutes. I use electric frying pan. 

Mrs. G. Daniel Knight, Jr. 


(Norma Pittard) 
HOT DOG CASSEROLE ey 
| Serves 4 
1 lb. 12-0z. can pork and beans 1% cup water th 
% envelope onion soup (I use 1 tsp. mustard | 
Lipton’s) 1 Tbsp. brown sugar 
1/3 cup catsup 6 hot dogs, sliced 


Mix all ingredients and pour a an ungreased casserole. Bake uncov ered 
one hour at 350°. Easy! 

Mrs. Myles Gaythwaite 

(Biddie Davenport) 


"HAWAIIAN BEANS AND FRANKS | 
Serves 6-8 


1 #2 can crushed pineapple, drained 2 16-0z. cans baked beans 
2 Tbsp. brown sugar | 1 lb. frankfurters, sliced into 
3 Thsp. catsup 1” slices 


1 tsp. prepared mustard 


Combine ingredients in a 2-qt. casserole and bake in preheated 350° ; 
oven for one hour. . 
Mrs. James H. Waters 
(Barbara Southerland) 


BARBECUED SPARERIBS ~ | 
Boil spareribs in water mixed with about 20% vinegar and hot pepper to 
your taste for about 20 minutes. Dip ribs in sauce and brown slowly over — 
low to medium. coals. 


Sauce 


Use equal amounts of catsup and vinegar. Add red peppers, black pep- 
per, Worcestershire sauce and Tabasco sauce to taste. Be sure to make 
enough sauce to dip the ribs into several times while cooking. 


_ Mike Evans 


135 


SPUNKY SPARERIBS 


| Serves 4 
4 lbs. spareribs ny | 1% tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 6-oz. can (2/3 cups | % tsp. garlic salt 
orange juice concentrate % tsp. pepper 


Place ribs, meaty side down, in shallow roasting pan. Roast in 450° oven 
for 30 minutes. Drain off fat; turn ribs and roast 30 minutes more. Drain 
off fat. Combine remaining ingredients; brush on ribs. Reduce oven 
temperature to 350°. Roast ribs covered for one hour or until tender, 
brushing with sauce occasionally. 


Mrs. Stan Ford 


BARBECUED PORK LOIN 


Serves 8 


6 lbs. pork loins, cut into 114” 
thick slices 


Sauce 
% cup vinegar | _ 1 tsp. Texas Pete hot sauce 
1 cup water | 4 lemon slices | 
4 Tbsp. sugar 1 medium onion, chopped 
2 Tbsp. prepared mustard 1 stick margarine 
1 tsp. pepper 1 cup catsup 
% tsp. salt 4 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 


Combine all but last two ingredients and simmer 20 minutes. Add catsup 
and Worcestershire sauce and bring to a boil. Better if sauce is made 
several hours ahead of time to allow it to mellow. Place pork slices four to 
six inches above hot coals. Cook, basting frequently with sauce for one 
hour and 20 minutes. Turn as needed. 
it Mrs. Ray L. Bryant 


PORK ROAST 


cht Serves 6-8 
4-6 lb. pork roast | 1 Tbsp. red pepper 
1 cup vinegar . 7 Salt and pepper 


'%2 cup water — 


Salt and pepper roast; place in baking dish. Combine vinegar, water and 
red pepper; pour over roast. I usually pierce with fork so sauce can get 
inside. Place in 325° oven for four hours. I baste several times and turn 
roast after two hours. I usually turn oven up last 30 minutes so roast 
can brown. Use sauce to pour over roast when served, if desired. My 
children love it. 

Mrs. Fred Lee, Jr. 

(Carol Jones) 


136 


CHOW MEIN 


Vi Serves 4 
1 Ib. lean pork, cut into thin strips Salt | 
34 cup celery, cut on diagonal Pepper 
1 cup chopped onion 2 Tbsp. cornstarch 
1 can bean sprouts, drained : Chinese dry noodles 
2 cups chicken broth Bacon grease 


2 Tbsp. soy sauce 


Fry strips of pork in bacon grease in hot skillet. Add celery, onion, 
bean sprouts and chicken broth. Simmer 15-20 minutes. Season with 
salt, pepper and soy sauce. About five minutes before vegetables are 
tender, thicken with the 2 Tbsp. cornstarch softened in a little cold water. 
Serve over rice with Chinese noodles. For Sunday night supper, dress 
up with diced chicken and hard- boiled eggs on top of each serving. Lone 
extra soy sauce. 

Mrs. Theiss Bayeun Suiter, We) | 


EASY PORK CHOPS 
Serves 4 
4 pork chops Tomato 
Onion 4 strips of bacon 


Place pork chops in baking dish. Slice onion and place one slice on top 
of each pork chop. Slice tomato and place one slice on top of onion. Take 
bacon strips and halve, criss-crossing one strip on each pork chop; anchor 
with toothpick. Pour a tiny bit of water in bottom of casserole. Bake at 
350° for one hour. 

Mrs. Dies Keel 


(Kathryn Asbell) — 
RICE AND PORK CHOPS | 

vlad _ Serves 4 
4 boneless pork chops, 'e" thick — 1 large onion, chopped . | 
2 tsp. salt. | 6*4-oz. can drained mushrooms, 
1% tsp. pepper } sliced 
tsp. paprika | | 1 large green pepper, chopped 
3 Tbsp. margarine ! Wy 1 large can tomato wedges © 
1 cup regular uncooked rice 1%cups water 

(not minute rice) | 2 tsp. sugar 


Sprinkle chops with salt, pepper and paprika. Brown in Hee skillet 
on medium heat. Remove from pan and set aside. Heat three Tbsp. 
margarine in skillet. Add the uncooked rice, chopped onion, green pepper 
and mushrooms. Cook until rice is lightly browned. Stir in tomatoes, 
water, sugar and 1 tsp. salt. Pour into greased 2-qt. casserole dish. 
Place ‘chops on top of rice mixture. Cover and bake at 350° for one hour. 


Mrs. Harold Colston — 
(Nancy Wilson) 


137 


PORK CHOPS-SCALLOPED POTATOES SUPREME 


bhai Serves 6 
6 pork chops . Ai : 1 can condensed cream of 
Salt and pepper mushroom soup 
6 medium potatoes, sliced ; 1 cup milk 
1 medium onion, sliced thin 2 tsp. salt 


Brown chops; season with salt and pepper. In greased 11” x 7” baking 
dish alternate layers of potatoes and onion. Combine soup, milk, salt 
and dash of pepper; pour over. Place chops on top. Bake at 350° about 
one hour or until chops and potatoes are tender. | 
at Mrs. Fred M. Dunstan III 
_ (Diane Ross) 


BAR-B-QUE PORK CHOPS I 


AVA Serves 8 
8 lean pork chops \ 1/3 cup vinegar 
1 cup catsup ) . 1 cup water 
1 tsp. salt . re ha gee 2 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 


i tsp. celery seed 
Brown pork chops; combine remaining ingredients and pour over chops 
in casserole dish. Bake in slow oven (325°) 1% hours. Turn chops once 
during baking. : ! 

Mrs. Harold Winstead 

(Dottie Warren) 


BAR-B-QUE PORK CHOPS II 


Serves 4-6 
6 pork chops, excess fat removed 6 slices onion 
Sauce 
1/3 cup chili sauce %4 tsp. salt 


1/3 cup brown sugar 1% Thsp. lemon juice 


% tap. pepper 
Piace chops in casserole dish and top with slices on onion on each. Mix 
sauce and spoon over chops. Bake covered at 350° for one hour. 
| Mrs. Ben E. Moore, Jr. 
(Sue Battle) 


ay 






NN 
¢ 


a: 


“py 
{~ 








iN 


LA) Ve WE vee ve 





138 


STUFFED PORK CHOPS 


palit | Serves 8 
8 34” loin pork chops 4 tsp. salt 
1 cup chopped onion 14 tsp. pepper 
1 cup chopped celery | 14 tsp. thyme 
1 7-oz. pkg. herb seasoned cube — MM tsp. sage 
stuffing ~% cup snipped parsley 


Brown chops lightly in hot fat trimmed from chops. Remove chops from 
skillet, add onion and celery and cook until tender. Prepare cube stuffing, 
following directions on package. Combine with vegetables and season- 
ings. Place a chop fat edge up at each end of a 10” x 5” x 3” loaf pan. 
Alternate chops and stuffing. Insert skewers through chops. Bake at 
325° for one hour or until done. May garnish with spiced peaches and 
grapes. | 

Mrs. Jay Elliot 

(Ginger Groobey) 


BAKED BREADED PORK CHOPS 


Avi Serves 6 
2 Tbsp. butter 4 tsp. oregano 
1 cup coarse Ritz cracker crumbs 1 beaten egg 
3 Tbsp. grated Parmesan cheese 2 Tbsp. milk . 
tsp. salt 6 34” pork chops | 


4% tsp. pepper 


Use butter to coat 13” x 9” x 2” pan. Mix crumbs, grated cheese, salt, 
pepper, oregano in Rowe! Add 1 milk to beaten egg. Coat chops in crumbs, 
dip in egg mixture, again in crumbs. Arrange in pan. Bake at 325° for 
30 minutes. Turn chops, bake another 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Ed Moore 

(Peggie Thigpen) 


DIET WORKSHOP ORANGE BAKED PORK CHOPS 


| _ Serves 2 
4 5-oz. lean pork chops, fat trimmed 1 tsp. grated lemon mad . 
Salt and pepper 1 cup orange sections | 
% cup sliced onions Dash marjoram | 
% cup tomato juice | Be tp chopped Hany 


Dash of brown sugar twin 


Preheat broiler. Rueeah and broil on a rack 4” from source 4. 5 minutes on 
each side until brown. Turn off broiler and place chops i in a small baking | 
dish. Preheat oven to 400°. Add onions, tomato juice, brown sugar twin ~ 
and lemon rind to pork chops. Arrange orange sections on top. Sprinkle 
on marjoram. Bake covered at 400° for 15-20 minutes or until onions are 
tender. Place pork chops on serving dish and top with sauce. 


Brenda Cotton 


139 


PIZZA PORK CHOPS 
| Serves 4 
4-6 pork chops 1 tsp. garlic salt 
2 8-oz. cans tomato sauce 4-6 slices American cheese 


1 tsp. oregano 


Place pork chops in baking dish. Pour tomato sauce over all. Add oregano 
and garlic. Cover with aluminum foil and cook 1% hours at 300°. 15 
minutes before removing, place cheese slice on top of each chop. Serve 
with baked potato and tossed salad. 
| - Mrs. Terry Odom 
(Chris Joyce) 


TOMATOES WITH SEAFOOD DRESSING 


Serves 4 
% cup mayonnaise 1 Tbsp. minced onion 
2 Tbsp. lemon juice Salt and pepper 
1 tsp. mustard Lettuce 
1 cup cooked shrimp 4 tomatoes 
2 chopped hard-boiled eggs | Dill or chives (optional) 


1% cups grated carrots 


Blend mayonnaise, lemon juice and mustard. Add shrimp, eggs, carrots 
and onion. Toss well. Season. Slice into tomatoes making four quarters 
(do not cut all the way through base). Gently pull open like petals. Fill 
tomato with seafood dressing. Arrange on beds of lettuce. Sprinkle with 
dill or chives if desired. | 
Mrs. William A. Wynne, Jr. 
(Jean Letellier) 


SPAGHETTI WITH CLAM SAUCE 


Serves 4 
1/3 cup olive oil iat - Dash of pepper 
6 cloves of garlic, pressed Salt to taste 
% cup chopped fresh parsley — 1% pkg. spaghetti or vermicelli 


3 7'42-0z. cans minced clams 
(Gorton’s Brand) 


Heat oil and add garlic and parsley. Cook stirring frequently until 
garlic is lightly browned. Stir in minced clams and pepper. Bring to 
boil, cover and boil one minute. Add salt if needed. Serve over cooked 
spaghetti. a rit | 

Ted Levy 


140 


BAKED SHAD 
Shad is a very boney fish, but the flavor is superb. heave head intact in 
cleaning. Stuff with dressing. Wrap tobacco twine loosely aanhduahy fish so 
as to hold dressing in place. 


Dressing 
1 cup cold cornbread or muffins, 1 medium onion, chopped 
broken in small pieces : 2 Tbsp. dried parsley 
1 cup stale bread, preferably 2 stalks celery, chopped 
2 or 3 days old, | te and pepper 


half heels and half slices 


Mix dry ingredients thoroughly. Add enough hot water to moisten. Place 
fish in oven and bake at 350° to 375° for about 20-30 minutes or until 
meat flakes when touched with a fork. Do not allow drippings in pan to 
dry because you will need this for gravy. | 


Gravy 
1 Tbsp. catsup Juice of 1 lemon 
1 Tbsp. browned flour , 2-3 oz. sherry 


Boil the gravy in which the shad was baked. Add catsup, flour which has 
ite wet with cold water, juice of the lemon and the sherry. Serve 1 in sauce | 
ow 


Randton (erarite 


STUFFED BASS 


1 2%-lb. or larger fish | 1 tsp. parsley flakes Serves 4 


4 strips bacon | 1 tsp. pepper 
1% lb. crackers 1 tsp. onion salt 


Cook bacon and remove from pan. Crush crackers and put in same pan 
with bacon drippings. Add seasonings and enough water to make mushy. 
Crush strips of bacon and add to the mixture. Stuff cleaned, salted and 
peppered fish. Garnish with lemon slices and strips of bacon on top. Bake 
at 325° for one hour. We recipe is Eout to use for most any of your — 
favorite fish. — 


Mrs. Ben M. Gold 
(Cora Lee Warren) 








141 
BAKED FISH 


Serves 4 
1 3-lb. filet of fish— | Paprika 
rock, flounder or speckled trout % cup butter, melted 
% tsp. dehydrated parsley flakes . 3 Tbsp. white wine (Vermouth) 
'» tsp. freeze-dried chopped chives 1 Thsp. lemon juice 
1 tsp. capers ’% cup water 


Coat bottom of pan with margarine. Put a few spoonsful of water in 
bottom of pan to prevent sticking. Place fish in pan skin side down. Put 
parsley, chives and capers on fish and sprinkle lightly with paprika. 
Mix last four ingredients. Pour half of liquid over fish. Bake at 350° 15- 
20 minutes. Baste once or twice using remaining liquid. 
Wa Mrs. Ben O. Yelverton, dr. 
(Joan Currie) | 


- BROILED FISH > 


1 small to medium fish per person | 1 bay leaf per fish 
1 slice lemon per fish 1 Tbsp. dry white wine per fish 
1 slice onion per fish | Salt, pepper and paprika to taste 


Lemon Butter 

6 Thsp. butter 

2 Tbsp. lemon juice 3 

Preheat oven to 400°. Line pan with foil. Wash fish and pat dry. Sprinkle 
entire fish with salt, pepper and paprika. With sharp-pointed knife, make 
small, deep cuts (about four) along front of fish. With fingers, push 4 thin 
slice lemon, '4 thin slice onion, and 1 sprig of parsley into each slit. Stuff 
bay leaf inside or under fish. Pour on wine. Put fish in oven. Heat 
butter and stir in lemon juice; spoon over fish. Broil fish about eleven 
‘minutes until flaky. Baste often with lemon butter. (Larger fish should 
be baked about 30 minutes at 400°.) 
) | Mrs. Wardlaw Lamar 
(Susan Keel) 


_ E’S FISH STEW 


1% lb. bacon 2 tsp. salt 
3 lbs. rock fish, cut into chunks _ 1 tsp. pepper 

2 lbs. onions, peeled and sliced 2, cans tomato paste 
3 lbs. potatoes, peeled and sliced Water 

Crushed red pepper 7 6 eggs (optional) 


In heavy iron pot over a wood fire, cook bacon until crisp. Remove pot 
from fire and add one pint of water. Alternately layer potatoes, onions 
and pieces of fish. Add salt and pepper and water barely to cover. Re- 
place pot on fire, cover and bring to a boil. Do not stir. When stew begins 
to boil, add 2 tsp. red pepper. Keep water level barely to top of stew. Boil 
for at least 45 minutes. About 20 minutes before removing from fire, 
add tomato paste on top, but do not stir. The breaking of eggs over stew 
to poach 5 minutes before serving is considered a delicacy by fish stew 
connoisseurs. Stew can be cooked on stove, in a large dutch oven, but is 
better cooked outside. . 
| Emerson Scarborough 


142 


CHARLES MANOR CRAB CAKES 


1 stick butter, melted 12 to 15 Ritz crackers, crushed 
1 tsp. mustard Ha % tsp. seafood seasoning 

5 Tbsp. mayonnaise | atsp. salt 

2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 3 Tbsp. horseradish 

2 eggs, beaten % tsp. oregano 

34 tsp. Texas Pete cup celery, finely diced 

1/3 cup green pepper, anos) Aiba 3&4 pkg. saltines, crushed 


1 lb. can backfin crabmeat 


Mixture should be very soft when ready to use. This is the secret. Pick up 
small amount in hand. Do not break lumps but put six or seven in a 
cake. Fry until ight brown. Cakes should be soft and moist. 

Mrs. Jack Brake 

(Kathryn Jones) 


CRAB MEAT CASSEROLE I 


Serves 4 


1 lb. crab meat 1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
2 Thsp. mayonnaise | 1 Tbsp. lemon juice 
2 Tbsp. Durkees dressing , 8-10 Ritz crackers 


Mix mayonnaise, Durkees dressing, Worcestershire sauce ang lemon 
juice. Mix with crabmeat gently. Put in casserole, top with Ritz cracker 
crumbs (about 8-10 crackers). Dot with butter. Cook in 400° oven for 
about 10-15 minutes until hot all the way through. You could put crab 
meat in shells if you prefer. | 
| | Katherine B. Gardner 


CRAB MEAT CASSEROLE II 


| Serves 8 
1 lb. shrimp ye 1 cup Durkees dressing | 
1 lb. crab meat ei _ 2 small onions, diced 
1 cup mayonnaise ba 2 or 3 cups celery, diced 


Mix together above ingredients and add a dash of salt, Worcestershire 
and Tabasco. Sprinkle bread crumbs on top and bake at 350° for 30 min- 
utes. Can be made up to 24 hours ahead of time. You may substitute two 
lbs. of crab meat instead of 1 lb. each of shrimp and crab meat. 


‘Mrs. Austin Comer 


CRAB DELIGHT 
: ae Hae byt _ Serves 8 
3 ae frozen king crab 2 stalks celery, chopped fine 
8 slices cooked bacon, crumbled | 2 cups sharp grated Cheddar cheese 
4 cup green pepper, chopped fine 2 cups mayonnaise 
1 cup green onions, chopped fine Dash Tabasco and salt as newded | 


Combine and spread thickly on half of English muffin (room tempera- 
ture). Broil at 400-425° for 10-15 minutes. Above may be made a day in 
advance and refrigerated until ready to use. Good served with avocado 
and grapefruit salad and dessert for luncheon. 


_ Mrs. H. W. Whitley, Jr. 


143 


DEVILED CRAB 


Serves 6 
3 cups crab meat or salmon % tsp. cayenne pepper 
2 Tbsp. butter 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 smali chopped onion | 1% cup mayonnaise 
1 tsp. dry mustard 1-1% cups bread crumbs 
% tsp. paprika % cup milk 
% tsp. salt Few drops Tabasco 


Chopped green pepper to suit " 
Mix all ingredients together. May add more mayonnaise or milk as 


needed. Form into cakes or put in shells and bake at 375° for 20-25 min- 


utes. . ) 
Mrs. Richard Sapp 
(Carolyn Dickson) 


MOCK DEVILED CRAB 


1 can crab meat 1 cup grated cheese 
1 can mushroom soup 1 egg, beaten 


1 can mushrooms, drained 3 Thsp. sherry 
: Bread crumbs 


Mix first six ingredients in pan. Cook and stir until cheese is melted. 
Pour into casserole or fill crab shells. Put bread crumbs on top. This 
amount will fill about five shells of average size. Can be made a day 
ahead and kept in refrigerator or can be frozen and kept several weeks. 
Before serving, bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 


| Claude Aycock 
CRAB MEAT PIE 
Serves 6-8 
% cup mayonnaise 1-2/3 cup (714-0z. can) crab meat, 
2 Thsp. flour drained 
2 beaten eggs 1 8-oz. pkg. Natural Swiss cheese 
% cup milk 1/3 cup sliced green onions 


1 9-inch pie shell 


Mix, until blended, mayonnaise, flour, eggs and milk. Stir in crab meat, 
diced Swiss cheese and green onions. Pour into 9-inch pie shell. Bake at 
350° for 40 to 45 minutes. 

Mrs. Gus Tulloss 

(Bet Munden) 





144 


‘CRAB IMPERIAL 


Serves 4 
1lb. backfin crabmeat  .~—~—sO 2 Tbsp. finely chopped green pepper _ 
1 tsp. salt | Reyes Tbsp. butter 
2 tsp. dry mustard LEAN 1 cup mayonnaise 
1 tsp. white pepper | AS) 2 egg yolks | 


2 Tbsp. lemon juice 


Sauté green pepper in butter. Mix with crab meat, salt, niietaral pepper, 
lemon juice and 2 cup mayonnaise. Pack lightly into crab shells. Mix 
egg yolks with remaining % cup mayonnaise and use to coat. Bake at | 
400° 14 to 15 minutes. | 

Mrs. Hous Evans 


SHRIMP AND CRAB CASSEROLE 


Serves 4-6 — 
1 Ib. shrimp, cooked 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
% lb. crab meat (6-02. can) | 1 cup bread crumbs 
1 cup salad dressing Salt and pepper to taste 
1 medium onion, chopped | Butter 


1 medium green pepper, chopped 


Combine all ingredients except bread crumbs. Place in a casserole dish. 
Cover with crumbs. Top with butter. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 
| _ Mrs. Leon Henderson, Jr. 
AGcatatt wants | 


CRAB OR SHRIMP CASSEROLE 


Serves 6-8 
2 lbs. lump crab meat or frozen _ 2 or 3 eggs, beaten | 
King Crab or cooked shrimp 4 slices bread, toasted | 
1 can water chestnuts, sliced 2 cans cream of mushroom soup 
1 can mushrooms (stems and | 1/3 cup dry sherry 
pieces or buttons) Sa Eee : Haprina 


1 stick of butter, melted — 


Pinch toast into small pieces and mix Hine soup. Mix With eggs, ere 
sherry, chestnuts and mushrooms. Mix well. Add crab or shrimp and — 
mix lightly. Pour into casserole or individual casserole servings. 
Sprinkle top with paprika. Bake in preheated oven at 400° Sete 
for 20-25 minutes until hot and bubbly. — 
Mrs. David Jay 
(Susan Klitzner) 


145 


_ SEAFOOD CASSEROLE 


Pha Serves 6-8 
4 cups cooked shrimp | | 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 

1 lb. crab meat (7-oz. can) _ | 1 tsp. salt 

‘% cup chopped green pepper 4 tsp. pepper 

14% cups finely sliced celery | 1% cups fine, dry bread crumbs 

1/3 cup finely chopped onion 1/3 cup melted margarine 


1 cup mayonnaise 


Mix shrimp, crab meat, eotery onion, mayonnaise, Worcestershire sauce, 
salt and pepper. Spoon into a 1p-qt. casserole. Combine bread crumbs 
and melted margarine. Sprinkle over casserole. Bake at 350° for approxi- 
oy 30 minutes or until browned. Garnish with lemon slices and 
parsley. | 


Mrs. Sam Lee 
| ‘(Jo Rooke) 
BAKED SEAFOOD CASSEROLE 
Serves & 
3%4 lb. crab meat %4 cup chopped green pepper 
34 lb. cooked shrimp | %4 tsp. salt 
1 cup mayonnaise - 1 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
% cup Durkee’s dressing 1 tsp. sugar 
1 cup chopped celery | 1% cups crushed potato chips 
34 cup chopped onion AN Paprika 


Chop crab meat and shrimp. Mix all ingredients together except potato 
chips. Put into greased casserole dish. Cover with potato chips; sprinkle 
with paprika. Bake at 350° for 30 to 40 minutes. 

Mrs. Sam Douglas 

(Gail Barksdale) 


QUICK SEAFOOD NEWBURG 


Serves 4 


1 can frozen cream ne shrimp soup 1 cup Le shrimp, lobster, crab 
% cup milk or white fish 
1 tsp. lemon juice > 


Heat together gently. Serve over toast ata or rice or in cooked frozen 
patty shells. 

Mrs. Robert Mauldin 

(Pat Jarman) 





ia 


146 


SHRIMP CASSEROLE I 


Serves 6 
2 Ibs. raw shrimp, peeled, % green bell pepper, chopped 
deveined and cooked 1 medium onion, chopped 
1/3 cup catsup ‘ - stick butter or margarine 
1% cups long grain rice Hot sauce to taste 
2 10%-oz. cans cream of hiuehioons % cup buttered bread crumbs 
soup 


Boil rice in salted water until tender. Rinse in cold water and drain. 
Sauté onions and pepper in butter. Pour soup into same pan and mix — 
well. Bring mixture to a boil and remove from heat. Add catsup and hot 
sauce. Cook shrimp first. In 2-qt. casserole, spread '2 of cooked rice. Place 
' of shrimp over rice and then pour 4 of soup mixture over shrimp. Re- | 
peat and bake 45 minutes in preheated 350° oven. Take casserole out 
and sprinkle top with buttered bread crumbs. Return to oven and brown. 
Do not overcook. 
Mrs. Mickey Southerland | 
Wilmington, N. C 


SHRIMP CASSEROLE II 


Serves 8 
6 slices dry white bread % cup butter i 
12 lb. cheddar cheese | % tsp. dry mustard 
1® lb. fresh or canned shrimp 3 eggs | 
(or more) 214 cups milk 


Cut bread and cheese into 1-inch squares. Arrange shrimp in layers in — 
buttered casserole (about 2 layers). Melt butter, add mustard, add very — 
well beaten eggs, blend in milk and pour over shrimp. Cover and refrig- | 
erate. Take out one hour before cooking. Bake one hour, covered, at 350°. 
Tee lid and bake last 15 minutes. This recipe is better if made a day — 
ahea 


Lee Gravely 





147 


SHRIMP CASSEROLE III 


1 lb. shrimp, boiled, shelled and 1 Tbsp. parsley 


deveined _ 1 Tbsp. Lowry’s seasoning salt 
4 hard-boiled eggs ‘2 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
%, cup sharp cheese tsp. dry mustard 
2 clove garlic, chopped | | ¥% cup dry vermouth or sherry 


% Tbsp. catsup 


Devil eggs and set aside. Make cream sauce: 
i | Sauce 


4 Tbsp. butter i qt. milk 
41%, Tbsp. flour 


Mix butter and flour. Thicken over low heat, adding milk. To this add 

cheese, garlic, catsup, parsley, seasoning salt, Worcestershire sauce, mus- 

tard and sherry. Add cooked shrimp to this sauce. Into casserole put 

layer of deviled eggs and layer of shrimp sauce. Repeat a layer of each. 

Cover with buttered cracker crumbs (optional). Bake 45 minutes at 350°. 
Mrs. Frank Baldwin 


CURRIED SHRIMP RICE CASSEROLE 


Serves 8 


1% cups instant rice 34 tsp. curry powder 


1% cups boiling water | % tsp. pepper 
% tsp. salt % tsp. dry mustard 


% cup French dressing % cup diced celery 
34 cup mayonnaise 1 Ib. shrimp, cooked and cleaned 


1 Tbsp. minced onion 


Combine rice, water and salt in sauce pan. When cooked, lightly toss in 
French dressing. Cool and refrigerate. Blend mayonnaise, onion, curry 
powder, salt, pepper, mustard and refrigerate. Combine with shrimp 
when ready to serve. 

Mrs. R. L. Yelverton 

(Nancy Gordon) 


SHRIMP AND RICE CASSEROLE 


Serves 4 


1 10-0z can cream of celery soup. % cup milk 
1% cup cooked rice 1 cup cooked shrimp 
14 cup slivered, toasted almonds 2 Tbsp. minced parsley 


Combine milk and celery soup. Stir until smooth. Add rice, almonds, 
shrimp and parsley. Mix well. Pour into a 1-qt. casserole and bake at 


325° for 25-30 minutes. 
Mrs. Tom Coley 


(Barbara Bell) 


148 


| SHRIMP PILAU Vey 
| _ Serves6 
1% cup peeled, cooked shrimp My ‘ 2% cups Hed tomatoes ARE an 
4 slices bacon : 1 eup rice 
fk small onion : Salt 


Cut bacon in squares and fry; remove bacon, brown finely pode 
onion in bacon fat. Add tomatoes, rice and salt; remove to double boiler | 
and steam for 45 minutes. Stir in shrimp and ‘bacon and turn mixture : 
into baking dish. Bake in 250° oven 15 minutes. Makes firm aa serving 
six. White sauce adds glamour. | | 


Mrs. ely, Riddick 
(Pat Carty) 


- SHRIMP VICTORIA 
Serves 6 
2 lbs. shrimp a Ibs. dressed Viki butter. 
shrimp) _ 2 'Thsp. flour 
12 oz. fresh mushrooms, cleaned | 1 tsp. salt 
and sliced Dash freshly ground pepper 
% cup minced onion i UG ot CR DS sour cream Met 


Sauté onion in butter watt wilted. Add Han tooria, Bob te eaintited! 
then add shrimp. Cook another four minutes, stirring constantly. ‘Add 
flour, salt, pepper and sour cream, Cook gently, stirring until heated. 
Serve with rice. \ 


Mrs. W. M. Marehburn 
(Patsy Wiley) | 


SHRIMP STROGANOFF 


i Serves 4 
%,cup butter | Freshly eed pepper i 
1 lb. fresh shrimp 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 
% cup chopped green onions ! ) _ Dash of Tabasco sauce 
% cup slivered almonds i 2 cups sour cream 
1 10-oz. pkg. frozen tiny green peas 3 Tbsp. chopped pimento 
1% tsp. salt ; 1 Mite lemon juice — 
1 tsp. sugar Hy Pata ent : 


Cook peas according to package directions and aoa well. In a 10-inch 
skillet, melt butter. Add shrimp, onions and almonds and cook over 
medium heat until shrimp are pink and thoroughly cooked. Add peas, 

salt, sugar, pepper, Worcestershire sauce and Tabasco sauce. Cook over _ 
low heat until warmed through. Remove from heat and carefully blend : 
in sour cream. Gently stir in pimento and lemon juice, replace on low 


heat and cook stirring constantly until mixture reaches serving tem- — . 


perature; do not boil. Serve over rice or noodles. 


Mrs. A. Gilmore Cobban dr. 
( Gera Lu Shervette) _ | 


149 


SHRIMP JAMBALAYA 
a, Serves 4 
' cup butter 1 3-0z. can mushrooms 
‘a cup chopped onion 1 16-0z. can tomatoes 
‘2 cup diced green pepper 1 10%4-oz. can condensed bouillon 
‘2 cup chopped celery | | % tsp. sugar 
1 4%-oz. can deviled ham . % tsp. chili powder 
2 5-oz. cans shrimp or % tsp. Tabasco sauce 
1 lb. fresh, cooked shrimp 1 cup uncooked rice 


Melt butter in skillet. Add onion, pepper and celery. Cook until onion is 
tender, but not brown. Measure liquid from mushrooms, tomatoes and 
bouillon; add water to make two cups. Add to pan with seasonings, 
deviled ham and rice. Cover and simmer 15 minutes. Top with tomatoes, 
me One and shrimp. Cover and simmer 15 minutes until rice is 
one. | 
Mrs. John E. Warren 
(Vivian Williams) 


‘SHRIMPS DE JONGHE. 


Serves 4 
1 lb. uncooked shrimp 14 tsp. pepper | 
%,cup margarine _ | ‘a cup dry sherry 
1 clove garlic, crushed 2 Tbsp. parsley, minced 
2 Tbsp. finely chopped onion _ Cracker crumbs 
1 tsp. salt 


Melt butter in sauce pan. Add onion and garlic. Cook and stir approxi- 
mately five minutes over medium heat. Add cleaned shrimp, add salt and 
pepper and cook until pink (about five minutes.) Add sherry and parsley. 
Put into individual casseroles. Top with crumbs and pour excess butter 
from pan over the top. Bake at 350° for 15 minutes. 
| Mrs. David Davenport 

(Grace Savage) 


SHRIMP CREOLE I 


Serves 4 
2 cups finely chopped onion . 5 tsp. salt 
2/3 cup salad oil . | 1 tsp. pepper 
3 cups catsup mich | 8 drops Tabasco sauce 
1 cup water ey 1b. raw shrimp 
1 cup lemon juice % cup green pepper 
% cup Worcestershire sauce % cup celery 
% cup sugar . | 1 Thsp. salad oil 


To prepare sauce, cook onion in hot oil until soft. Add the remaining 
ingredients and simmer for 15-20 minutes. Cool. Makes about 2 quarts. 
This may be frozen in 2 cup quantities and used as needed, depending 
on the number of people you plan to serve. Cook 1 lb. raw shrimp in 
shell. Remove shells and veins. Cook 2 cup chopped green pepper and 1% 
cup chopped celery in 1 Tbsp. salad oil until soft. Add 1 cup sauce and 
the shrimp to pepper and celery. Heat through. Serve over rice. 
| | Mrs. L. Ernest Bridgers, Jr. 
(Marie Pearson) 


150 


SHRIMP CREOLE Il 


| Serves 6-8 
1% Thsp. lard 3% tsp. red pepper ; | 
1% Tbsp. flour | 34 tsp. salt 
3 medium onions, diced 3 bay leaves 
1% large bell peppers, diced % tsp. celery seed 
3 cloves garlic, minced ) 1/3 tsp. thyme 
3 tsp. parsley, minced 3 lbs. raw shrimp, cleaned | 
1% large cans tomatoes 3 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 


Melt lard and blend in flour. Add onions, bell pepper, garlic and ay 
Cook until onions are golden. Add tomatoes and juice also. Season with 
remaining ingredients. Now add the raw shrimp and cover. Cook slowly 
for an hour. Be sure to use an iron pot or a heavy pot with a tight fitting 
cover. About 30 minutes before serving, add the Worcestershire sauce. 
Serve with rice in a separate dish. 

Mrs. Mac Hines 

(Hadley Morgan) 


TUNA BAKE WITH CHEESE SWIRLS 


Serves 4 
1/3 cup chopped green pepper 1 10%-oz. can cnieea and rice soup 
14 cup chopped onion - lAcups milk 
3 Tbsp. oil or shortening 1 7-oz. can tuna, flaked 
1 tsp. salt 1 Thsp. lemon juice 


6 Tbsp. plain flour 


Sauté pepper and onion in oil. Add salt and flout. blend. Stay add 

milk, stirring constantly. Add soup. Cook until mixture is thick, stirring. 
Add tuna and lemon juice. Pour mixture into baking dish and top with 
cheese swirls. Bake at 425° until swirls are lightly browned, about 15- 20 ) 
minutes. 


Cheese Swirls 
2 cups Bisquick  --%4 cup grated Cheddar cheese | 
% cup cold water | | My 


Mix Bisquick and water to a soft dough. Knead gently a few times and 
roll dough 14” thick on floured surface. Sprinkle dough with cheese. _ 
Beginning with long side, roll up dough as for a jelly roll. Seal the edge 2 
by pinching the uaa, and cut roll into slices, °4”-1" thick. — i 
| Mrs. J. M. Purser 

(Paulette Warren) 





151 


TUNA CASSEROLE 


Serves 6 
1 cup elbow macaroni 4% small chopped onion 
1 3-oz. pkg cream cheese, softened 1/3 cup milk 
i can condensed cream of 1 cup dry bread crumbs 
mushroom soup ; 2 Tbsp. butter or margarine, melted 


1 6%-o7z. can tuna 


Cook macaroni and drain. Blend cream cheese and mushroom soup with 
a mixer until smooth. Add tuna, onion, milk and macaroni. Put in a 
l'4-qt. casserole. Mix bread crumbs with melted butter; sprinkle over top 
of tuna mixture. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Ed Booth, Jr. 

(Carol Joyner) 


AUNT KAY’S TUNA-NOODLE CASSEROLE 


Serves 6-8 
3 cups cooked noodles 2 cans cream of mushroom soup 
1 large can tuna (in water) _. ‘cup diced sharp cheese 
1 can asparagus (spears not % cup sliced stuffed olives 
necessary) : _ Dash of pepper 


Cook noodles until tender in salted water. Drain and blanch in cold water. 
In casserole put soup, cheese, tuna, pepper and juice of drained aspara- 
gus. Mix well and add noodles. Then fold in asparagus and olives. Use a 
large casserole. Bake one hour at 350°. 

Mrs. Richard Cutler 

(Lea Paulson) 


TUNA AND RICE CASSEROLE 


7 Serves 4-6 
1-1/3 cup cooked rice (left overs 1 can cream of mushroom soup 
preferably) — | % cup milk 
1% tsp. grated lemon rind 1 7-oz. can tuna 
% tsp. salt 1 cup cooked green beans 
1-1/3 cup boiling water Black pepper 


1% Tbsp. butter Buttered bread crumbs 


Add rice, lemon rind and salt to boiling water; mix just to moisten rice. 
Cover, remove from heat and let stand for five minutes. Add butter, mix- 
ing lightly with a fork. Meanwhile, combine soup and milk in sauce pan 
and heat. Add tuna, green beans and pepper. Heat well and add lemon 
rice. Mix lightly and turn into 1'%-qt. casserole. Sprinkle with crumbs. 
Broil 2 or 3 minutes until crumbs are lightly browned. 

Mrs. John R. Bourne 


152 


SCALLOPS PARISIENNE 


) . Serves 40 
1 can frozen cream of shrimp soup 4 Tbsp. bread crumbs 3 
1% lbs. scallops . 38 Tbsp. melted butter © 
4 Tbsp. butter : 2-4 Tbsp. dry vermouth | 
1 cup chopped mushrooms (raw or Salt and pepper to taste 


substitute canned) 


Thaw the soup. Wash and drain scallops. Slice if scallops are too large; — 
leave small scallops whole. Melt 2 Tbsp. butter in skillet; sauté the 
scallops 2 minutes. Remove. Melt remaining 2 Tbsp. butter in skillet; 
add mushrooms, vermouth and seasonings. Put scallops in casserole, 
pour the sauce (mushrooms, vermouth, etc.) over scallops and top with — 
buttered bread crumbs utilizing the remaining 3 Tbsp. of melted cee 
Bake in slow oven (up to 350°) until well browned. 

Karen Lalor 

Dalmar, N. Y. 


SCALLOPED OYSTERS 


% cup butter | 1 egg, beaten 
1 cup cracker crumbs 1 cup milk | 
1 pt. oysters _ Salt and pepper 


Melt butter and add crumbs and brown slightly. Put layer of wen in 
bottom of 1% or 2-qt. baking dish. Add % oysters and season with salt 
and pepper. Put on another layer of crumbs and add remaining oysters, 
then salt and pepper. Mix egg with milk and pour over layers. Riel 
remaining crumbs. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. © | as 
| Gene McCay | 
Durham, N. C. 


OYSTER CASSEROLE 


1 pt. oysters, cut into small pieces © 3 hard- boiled eggs 

3 Tbsp. grated onions — 1 cup cream of mushroom soup | 
tsp. salt | a Tes Onan 12 cups cracker crumbs 
Pepper and paprika ans ( 1/3 cup melted butter 

Garlic salt ‘ eae Few ‘spoons oyster liquid 


Sprinkle salt, pepper, HOME tae Bagie salt into onions. fenton onions | 
in melted butter. Add bread crumbs and seasonings. Grease a round cas- © 
serole. Arrange layer of bread crumbs, layer of oysters and layer of sliced _ 
boiled eggs and some of the cream of. mushroom soup. Repeat with a 
layer of bread crumbs and soup on top. Add a few do of oyster | 
liquid on top of pone Bake 30 minutes at 400°. ! 

| Mrs. Donald Jackson Me AB 

(Jean Sorrell) , 


153 


EASLEY STEAMED QUAIL 


4 quail | i 1 cup chopped mushrooms, 
Salt to taste | fresh or canned 

% cup boiling water | % cup sherry 

42 cup melted butter | Flour 

2 Tbsp. meat sauce _ Paprika to taste 


Rub birds lightly with salt. Place in Dutch Oven. Pour water and melted 
butter over the birds. Let steam for 30 minutes. Add meat sauce, mush- 
rooms and sherry. Dust lightly with flour and steam until tender. Sprinkle 
with paprika. — 

Mrs. Jack Brake 

(Kathryn Jones) 


FRIED QUAIL IN ELECTRIC FRYING PAN 
| his ti, Oe | Serves 4-5 
8 quail 1 cup flour 

1 cup cooking oil Salt and pepper 


If you are lucky to have a hunter or someone gives you some quail, I 


think you will enjoy them more than fried chicken. I don’t salt and pepper 
my quail because when Fred kills them we soak them over night in cold 
salt water and no salt is needed. Salt and pepper quail (if needed). Put 
flour in paper bag, add quail and shake well to cover quail with 
flour. Heat oil in electric frying pan to 360°. When oil is hot, add quail 
four at a time so not to crowd. Cook 15 to 20 minutes or until brown. 
Turn and cook until brown on other side about 10 minutes. Then get 
ready for some “finger licking” good eating. As you can’t cut them too 
easily, you have to eat with fingers. A word of caution—you might find 
a few shots in the quail as it is not easy to always get all the shots out. 
They will not hurt the flavor, but might your teeth! 
| Mrs. Fred Lee, Jr. 
(Carol Jones) 


OVEN BARBECUED DUCKLING 


Serves 3 
1 4%-5 lb. duckling ‘ Prepared barbecue sauce 


Defrost duckling. Wash, and pat duckling dry. Quarter duckling. Sprinkle 
neck and body cavities with salt. Place in 400° oven for approximately 
1% hours. Prick skin with sharp pronged fork to drain. Reduce oven 
temperature to 300°. Brush duck with prepared barbecue sauce. Cover 
with aluminum foil and cook % hour. Remove foil. Cook uncovered for 4 
hour. 
| Mrs. Jim Barnhardt 
Urbanna, Va. 


154 


GRILLED vin open 
, Serves 3 
1 444-5 lb. duckling, defrosted i cup salt 
1% cup poultry seasoning | Re sinks pepper 


% cup paprika 


Prepare mixture using poultry seasoning, paprika, galt and pepper. 
Quarter duckling. Dredge quarters in mixture. Place quarter on heavy 
aluminum foil. Seal semi-tightly. Place over moderate to hot coals at 
least six inches above coals. Turn duckling every twenty minutes for 
two hours. Remove from fire and cool for ten minutes. This is important 
to keep foil from sticking. Remove foil. The above recipe may be used 
in a moderate oven (350°) for 24% hours. For extra crisp duckling, put | 
duckling back on grill after removing foil. | 
Mrs. Jim Barnhardt 
Urbanna, Va. | 


VENISON STEW 
| Serves 6-8 
3-4 lbs. venison 6-8 medium carrots 
6-8 medium potatoes Salt and pepper | 


Be sure to trim all fat from venison; this gives it a wild taste. Put into — 
dutch oven on low heat; cover and let simmer in its own juice for 30 
minutes. Then add salt and pepper to taste and add water to % full. Cook 
for 2 hours; add potatoes and carrots cut into small pieces. Continue to 
cook until potatoes and carrots are done, about 30 minutes depending — 
on size of cut potatoes and carrots. About 10 minutes before taking up, 
add 2 Tbsp. of flour to a cup of water mixed good; pour slowly into stew 
stirring stew as you add flour mixture. This will Dah the Bray y, We 
have enjoyed this more than beef stew. 

Mrs. Fred re ie. 

(Carol Jones) 


CORNISH HENS : 
| | Serves 2 
2 Cornish Hens Juice of 1 juicy lemon 
1 stick of butter 


Melt butter in sauce pan and uN lemon juice. Cook in covered grill or | 
in oven (350°) for about 30-45 minutes, depending on size of hens. Baste 
hens while cooking with lemon juice and butter. : 


Mrs. Bill Kincheloe 
(Marty Purvis) 


155 


EASY COQ AU VIN 


| Serves 6 

3 lb. chicken quarters, 1 tsp. garlic powder 

thigh and leg together 1 Tbsp. tomato paste 
% tsp. salt % tsp. thyme 
% tsp. pepper 1 bay leaf 
4 pieces bacon 10-12 small onions 
1-2 cans beef bouillon 1 large can sliced mushrooms 
3 cups Burgundy or other dry 

red wine 


Cook bacon and drain. Brown chicken in bacon grease. Season chicken 
with salt and pepper. Add bacon, cover pan and cook for 10 minutes, 
turning once. Cover with wine, bouillon, tomato paste, garlic, thyme, 
and bay leaf. Simmer for about 30 minutes or until tender. Lightly 
brown onions in pan; cover with water and boil 30 minutes. Saute lightly 
mushrooms. When chicken is done, drain sauce. Boil down to 214 cups; 
thicken with 3 Tbsp. flour. Add onions and mushrooms. Cover chicken 
_with sauce and reheat. 

| Mrs. Cleveland Cherry 
(Judy Kincheloe) 


CHICKEN CASSEROLE SUPREME 


Serves 4-6 
1 4-serving pkg. Betty Crocker 1 10-oz. pkg. frozen chopped 
Noodles Romanoff . _ broccoli, thawed and drained 
1 10%-oz. can cream of mushroom % cup sherry (optional) 
soup % cup pitted, ripe olives, cut into 
2 cups cut-up cooked chicken | wedges 


Heat oven to 350°. Prepare Noodles Romanoff as directed on package 
except use 2 cup milk. Stir in soup, chicken, broccoli, olives and sherry. 
Pour into 2-qt. casserole. Cover and bake 25 to 30 minutes or until broc- 
coli is tender. This recipe came from Jacques in Chicago. It is delicious 
served with French rolls and a tossed green salad. Can be made ahead 


and frozen. 
Ginger Gardner 


DEVILED CHICKEN THIGHS 


Serves 6 


12 fryer thighs (other pieces may -—_2 tsp. salt 
be substituted) | 1% tsp. dry mustard 


1% cup butter or oleo 1 tsp. chili powder 
1 Thsp. paprika Dash cayenne pepper 


Dip pieces in melted butter; save remaining butter. Lay chicken one layer 
deep in baking dish. Bake covered at 350° for 30 minutes. Mix spices 
with remaining butter; spread over chicken. Continue baking uncovered 
for 45 minutes to 1 hour, basting once or twice. 
: | Mrs. Robert D. White 
(“Boo”’ Pearsall) 


156 


CHICKEN AND LOBSTER. 


4 chicken breasts | . 1 Tbsp. tomato sauce 

2-3 Tbsp. sherry | 1 bay leaf, crushed | 

1 can mushrooms Sawin bape chives 

2 Tbsp. flour 2 10-0z. pkgs. lobster tails 


Salt, pepper and flour four oHieen breasts. Brown. Place in shallow han i 
ing dish. Pour 2 or 3 Tbsp. sherry over. Cover and bake at 300° for 25-30 
minutes. In skillet, add mushrooms and blend in 2 Tbsp. flour. Add — 
breasts. Cook until thick. Season with 1 Tbsp. tomato sauce, bay leaf, — 
and chives. Simmer 15 minutes. Cook lobster tails and cut in bite-size , 
pieces. Add to sauce and cook five minutes more. Place chicken on platter 
and top with sauce. Prepare in morning and let ‘ ay it rite leh the | 
day. Delicious! i 
Mrs. Adam Thorp 
(Helen uA 


TARRAGON CHICKEN 


Fry parts of chicken desired by your own favorite method. Make a 
chicken gravy using flour to thicken and water. Add 2 bay leaves, 1 tsp. — 
tarragon and '% cup sliced stuffed olives. Place chicken in baking dish; © 
leg with gravy. erie with aluminum foil neany and ening 1 hour at 
tee Robes Mauldin | 
(Pat Jarman) | 


CHICKEN A LA KING I 


Serves 8 
1 10%4-oz. can cream of chicken ! % tsp. salt ; 
soup | ‘4 tsp. pepper 
1 10%4-oz. can cream of mushroom 2 cups chicken broth 
soup 4 diced chicken breasts’ 
14 cup chopped green pepper Ne _% cup chopped pimento 


14 cup butter % cup slivered almonds 
% cup chopped onion 3 : | 


Sauté onion and pepper in butter. Add Cele beste and soups ie mix- a 
ture. Heat to bubbling. Add chicken and pimento. Let entire mixture 
heat. Stir often. Serve on rice, noodles or in patty shells. Add almonds bt 
just before serving. This can be frozen. i 
Mrs. F. Gene Meet 

ae Ward) | 





157 


CHICKEN A LA KING II 


| Serves 6 
% cup chicken fat or butter 1% cups Half and Half cream 
‘2 cup green pepper, cut in thin ‘2 cup pimento, sliced 
strips 3 cups chicken, cooked and diced 
1 cup mushrooms, sliced Salt and pepper 
4 Thsp. flour | 2 egg yolks, slightly beaten 
1 cup chicken stock 3 Tbsp. sherry 


Heat fat; add green pepper and mushrooms. Cook over low heat five 
minutes. Add flour; stir until blended; slowly add stock and milk; stir 
over low heat until thick and smooth. Add pimento and chicken. Season 
to taste. Heat thoroughly. Take a little of hot mixture and stir egg yolks. 
Stir and add to remaining mixture, stirring constantly. Add sherry. 
Serve in patty shells. Gaye : 

Mabel MacRae 


HOT JALAPENO CHICKEN 


| Serves 4 
3-3 lb. chicken, cut in pieces 1 onion, sliced thin 
Salt 4 jalapeno peppers, chopped 
Pepper . : (use canned peppers). 
Butter or margarine | 2 Tbsp. liquid from canned peppers 
1 Thsp. light brown sugar 2 cups water 
% cup catsup 1 cup vinegar 


Arrange chicken parts in baking pan. Salt and pepper and place pats of 
butter on all pieces. Mix together the next seven ingredients and pour 
over chicken parts. Cover tightly with lid or aluminum foil and bake at 
400° for one hour. Remove foil and bake at 325° for 30 minutes. 

Mrs. J. Michael Evans 

(Pam Daniel) 


ORIENTAL CHICKEN BREAST 


Serves 6 
6 chicken breasts, halved | 2 Tbsp. cornstarch 
5 Tbsp. salad oil 1 8-oz. can sliced pineapple, 
% cup dark brown sugar cut into pieces 
% cup vinegar 1 11-oz. can mandarin oranges, 
drained 


% tsp. salt . . 
1/3 tsp. powdered ginger 1 green pepper in strips 
1 tsp. soy sauce % cup halved maraschino cherries 


Heat oil in skillet over medium heat. Brown chicken on each side. Com- 
bine sugar, vinegar, salt, ginger and soy sauce. Pour over chicken and 
simmer 35 minutes covered. Remove chicken. Blend cornstarch and 2 
Tbsp. pineapple syrup and stir into skillet with remaining pineapple and 
syrup, oranges, green pepper and cherries. Bring to a boil; return chicken, 
cover and simmer 5-10 minutes until pepper is cooked. Serve over rice. 
aa : Mrs. Lyle Crumpler 
(Leslie Cloyes) 


158 


CHICKEN AND MUSHROOM CREPES FLORENTINE 


: _ Serves 6 

1% ib. chicken brease 1 ei ! an 2 cups nile | | 
2% cups chicken broth | | ek 1 cup heavy cream : 
10 oz. fresh spinach | - Salt and pepper 
4 ib. mushrooms CHORE % tsp. nutmeg a 
7 Tbsp. butter ieee 1% cups finely Oe Gruyere 

2 shallots, finely Hiei ho ae) . or Fontina cheese © 

5 Thsp. flour AND % cup grated Parmesan cheese 


Place chicken breasts in a sauce pan and add chicken broth to cover. 
Bring to a boil and simmer partly covered for about 20 minutes. Let the © 
chicken cool in the liquid. When the chicken has cooled, remove and dis- 
card the skin and bones. Chop the chicken meat and cover. Meanwhile, | 
pick over the spinach and wash it in cold water. Cook the spinach, A} 
covered, in the liquid that clings to the leaves. Cook briefly, stirring once — 
or twice. Drain well. When cool enough, press spinach between the hands — 
to extract most of the liquid. Chop and set aside. Rinse the mushrooms — 
in cold running water and drain. Dry with paper towels. Chop the mush- f 
rooms finely. Heat two Tbsp. butter and add shallots. Cook briefly and | 


add the mushrooms. Cook until they give up their liquid. Continue to. cook it 


stirring frequently until all the liquid evaporates. Heat the remaining 
butter and stir in the flour, using a wire whisk. Add the milk, stirring 
rapidly with the whisk. When the mixture is thickened and smooth, 
stir in cream, salt and pepper to taste and nutmeg. Combine the chicken, 
spinach and mushrooms. Add 14 cup of the sauce or enough to make the 
mixture hold together. Heat the oven to 350°. Add the Gruyere cheese to _ 
the remainder of the sauce. Spoon a thin layer of the sauce over bottom — 
of an ovenproof baking dish. Spoon a little of the chicken and mushroom 
mixture onto each of the crepes. Arrange the rolled crepes close together | 
over the baking dish. Spoon the remaining sauce on top. Sprinkle with 
Parmesan cheese and bake 30- 40 minutes. | 


‘Crepe Batter i 


34 cup flour i ee - 1-1%4 cups milk . 
1 egg, lightly beaten PE Ray Anant aah melted putnen No 
Salt | bh 


Bey OR nGE an ia Makes 12 to 16 crepes. oon as pancakes. 
| Mrs. Norman Daniels _ fis 





159 


Sa CHICKEN MANDARIN 


Nags Serves 6 

6 large chicken breasts, boned Ye tsp. pepper 
% cup oleo i " ERR _ 1 green pepper, sliced thin 
1 10%4-oz. can chicken broth or 1 tsp. lemon juice 

4 bouillon cubes in 2 cups . 2 Tbsp. cornstarch or flour 

boiling water Hag 1 cup chopped dates 
2 tsp. curry powder | 1 11-oz. can mandarin oranges 
1 Tbsp. instant minced onion  —s_— (save juice) 


1 tsp. salt 


Salt and pepper chicken and dredge lightly in flour. Sauté in oleo. Com- 
bine broth, curry powder, onion, salt, pepper and pour over chicken. Sim- 
mer for one hour or until very tender. Remove breasts to heated serving 
dish. Combine lemon juice, ‘syrup from oranges, and cornstarch. Stir 
into pan juices. Cook stirring constantly until thick and clear. Add sliced 
pepper and dates. Simmer 3-4 minutes more and add oranges. Heat 
thoroughly and pour over chicken. Serve on rice. Can be frozen. 
Mrs. J. M. Aldridge 


CURRIED CHICKEN. 
: MRA : Serves 6 
3 whole chicken breasts, | 4 cup dried currants or raisins 
split and boned — | 1 heaping tsp. curry 
1 can stewed tomatoes RU PER yd, 
Season chicken breasts and sauté in butter. Mix above ingredients 
and pour over chicken breasts that have been placed in an oblong cas- 
serole. Cover and bake in 300° oven for 30 minutes. Serve over rice with 
toasted, slivered almonds and chutney side dishes. 
| Mrs. Richard Ettinger 
(Bootsie Burton) 


CHICKEN WITH CURRY GLAZE 


1 medium onion, chopped (% cup) 1 can condensed beef broth 

6 slices uncooked bacon, diced 1 Tbsp. flaked coconut, frozen 
2 tsp. flour ) ! . 2 Tbsp. apple sauce 

% tsp. curry Aya _ 2 Tbsp. catsup 

1 Tbsp. sugar RANE 2 Tbsp. lemon juice 


Combine all ingredients in sauce pan and heat to boiling, stirring con- 
stantly. Simmer uncovered stirring often until thickened (15 minutes). 
8 breasts ofchicken | 1 tsp. ginger 

6 Thsp. flours win sa | ua 6 Tbsp. oleo, melted 

1% tsp. salt | 


Shake chicken in first three ingredients; coat with oleo. Place in shallow 
pan. Bake in 400° oven for 20 minutes. Take out and spoon half glaze 
on chicken, coating each piece, and cook 20 minutes longer, adding rest 
of the glaze. Serve with aspic (tomato), asparagus and buttered rice. 

ait Mrs, Julian Brantley, Jr. 


160 


CHICKEN CURRY 


Serves 6 — 
1 cup onions, chopped 4 Thsp. flour 
2 tart apples, peeled and chopped 4 cups chicken broth 
1 cup celery, chopped  % eup white raisins 
3 Tbsp. butter Cubed chicken 
5 Tbsp. curry powder Salt to taste 


Stew a large chicken. When done, remove from pot. Cool broth and skim 
off fat for stock. Sauté onions, apples, celery in butter until tender. 
Combine curry with flour, add to vegetables and cook another minute or 
so. Add stock and stir until smooth. Then add cubed chicken and raisins. 
Cover and simmer 30 minutes. Serve chicken in rice ring or separate with 
rice. Serve with following condiments: Major Grey’s chutney, chopped 
crisp bacon, finely chopped peanuts, finely chopped hard-boiled eggs, 
finely chopped onions, finely chopped cucumbers, and grated coconut. 


Lee Gravely 
CHICKEN PARMESAN CASSEROLE 


Serves 6-8 

4 whole chicken breasts, split, 1 can button mushrooms (use 

deboned, and skinned (8 pieces) liquid in can) | | 
3%4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1 tsp. salt (do not use this much 
Mazola cooking oil galt if using cooking sherry 
1 clove garlic, minced as salt is added to that sherry) 
3 Tbsp. all purpose flour 1% tsp. ground black pepper 
2 chicken bouillon cubes dissolved % tsp. poultry seasoning 

in 2 cups boiling water 4 Tbsp. fresh parsley, chopped fine 


1% cup sherry wine 


Day before serving remove bone and skin from chicken breasts and rub 
salt into them. Cover and refrigerate. Next morning dip chicken pieces 
in cheese. Heat 4%” oil in heavy skillet and brown chicken lightly turning 
to brown evenly. Remove from pan; drain on paper and then arrange in 
flat pyrex casserole. Remove all but 3-4 Tbsp. fat from pan; add and cook 
garlic until soft. Stir in flour until smooth. Add sherry, chicken stock, 
mushrooms, salt (if needed), pepper, poultry seasoning and parsley. Cook 
over medium heat, stirring constantly until smooth and slightly thickened. 
Pour over chicken in casserole. Bake in 350° oven for 45 minutes. Can 
be refrigerated before baking if to be served later. If so, bake at 350° for 
about one hour after removing from refrigerator. — | 


Mrs. Fred Payne 
(Shirley Jones) 





161 


PIZZA CHICKEN 


Serves 6 


6 large skinned, boned chicke 1 bell pepper, cut in strips 
breasts | 1 tsp. Accent 


1 chicken bouillon cube 1 8-oz. can tomato sauce 


% cup hot water % tsp. basil 


1 16-0z. can mushrooms, drained % tsp. oregano 
4 tsp. garlic powder 6 oz. Mozzarella cheese 


2 tsp. onion flakes 

Combine hot water, bouillon, mushrooms, garlic powder, minced onions, 
and bell pepper in baking dish. Place chicken breasts on top and sprinkle 
with Accent. Mix tomato paste, basil and oregano. Spoon over chicken. 
Cover with aluminum foil and bake at 325° for one hour. Remove foil, 


top with cheese. Return to oven until cheese is melted. 
Mrs. James Ezzell 


(Patsy Wall) 


CHICKEN CACCIATORE 


Serves 4-6 
1 fryer-size chicken, cut up 1 tsp. oregano 
2 Tbsp. shortening 14 tsp. salt 
1 can tomato soup % medium green pepper, cut into 
1% cup water strips . 
1% cup dry red wine or 1 Thsp. % cup chopped onion 


vinegar : 
In skillet, brown chicken in shortening; pour off fat and remove chicken. 
Add remaining ingredients and mix well. Add chicken to mixture. Cover; 
cook over low heat 45 minutes; stir now and then. Uncover and cook 


until sauce thickens. 
| Mrs. Leon Henderson, dr. 
(Emily Dean) 


CHICKEN TETRAZZINI I 
1 4% lb. chicken ; 2 cans mushroom soup, heated 
1 lb. spaghetti (dry) and thinned with broth 
1 small can or jar pimento 


Cook chicken, debone and save broth. Cook spaghetti. Add cut up chicken 
to broth, spaghetti and pimento. Put into baking dish; cover with fine 
bread crumbs and cheese and bake until cheese is melted and ingre- 


dients are hot and bubbly. 
; | Mrs. John G. Smith 
| | (Mary Lillian Wagner) 


162 


“CHICKEN TETRAZZINI Il 


Serves 10 
1 whole broiler-fryer chicken a MGs Tbsp. sherry or He wine 
1b lb. vermicelli 3 Tbsp. Parmesan cheese, grated 
1 lb. fresh mushrooms AU a Salt, pepper and paprika | 
3 Tbsp. butter cn Grated Cheddar cheese to cover 
2 Tbsp. flour it . (to taste) — ) 


1 cup Half ’N Half 


Boil chicken until tender; save see You will need 2 cups of en Cut 
meat in bite-sized pieces, usually 2-3 cups. Cook vermicelli according to 
package directions. Drain and add to sliced, sautéed mushrooms. In a 
sauce pan, melt butter, add flour and blend. Add chicken stock and cook, 
stirring until thickened. Salt and pepper to taste. Remove from heat. 
Stir in 1 cup heated Half ’N Half, sherry and Parmesan cheese. Add | 
chicken meat. Place vermicelli-mushroom mixture in large greased cas- 
serole dish. Pour sauce mixture over top. Sprinkle the top with Parmesan, 
paprika and grated Cheddar cheese. Preheat oven to 375°. Bake about | 
ira minutes until heated through and lightly browned. Freezes beauti- 
fully i 
Mrs. Mac Hines 
(Hadley Morgan) 


CHICKEN LOAF | 
A Serves 20- 24 HAR 


1 4 Ib. hen, cooked and rina itn | 3 cups bite-size bread crumbs 

1 cup chopped celery | | 1 cup Pepperidge iene creane 

1 cup chopped pimento © | _ 2 cups chicken broth | 

1 small onion, finely chopped ! 142 tsp. salt ny 
4 eggs, beaten | | %, tsp. lemon-pepper marinade ey 


Combine chicken with other ingredients. Shape into 2 loaves and bake ne 
45 minutes at 350° until crust forms. Serve with sauce. Freezes well. 


‘Sauce for Chicken Loaf | 


%cup butter | | MESA) \ At Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 
1 Tbsp. flour | fl tsp. lemon juice | 

2% cups chicken broth Tbsp. chopped eralewn 

% cup Half ’N Half beers cream | Salt and pepper to taste: : 


1 large can sliced mushrooms 


_ Melt butter in pan. ‘Gradually uae in. eines After mixture a i ele } i 
_ gradually add chicken broth and cream, stirring constantly. Cook over 
Haat -low heat until thickened. Add other ingredients. Serve hot over Ge 

oa : | PEL win 
“Gail Ayers 


163 


| CHICKEN ON THE GRILL 
1 broiler-fryer Af 1 pkg. Good Seasons Italian salad 
1 stick margarine or butter He th dressing mix 

1/3 cup cooking oil | 


Split chicken in half. Wash and dry with paper towels. Melt butter, add 
oil and dressing mix. Brush on chicken. Place on low-medium grill. Turn 
and baste every 10 or 15 minutes. We cook this on a covered gas grill 
and it takes 45-60 minutes to cook. Watch for flare-ups if the fire is too 
ae This is easy, delicious and great for cold sandwiches if you have any 
eft. | | 

Mrs. Mac Hines 

(Hadley Morgan) 


CHICKEN STUFFING CASSEROLE 


, | Serves 6 
' 3 cups herb season stuffing croutons 1 10%4-oz. can undiluted cream of 
(divide *4 from 4 for topping) mushroom soup 
1 16-0z. can French style beans,  % cup sweet milk 
drained | | Chicken broth (amount for desired 
214-3 lb. cooked fryer, diced 2 consistency of casserole) 


Place *4 of croutons in bottom of 2’-qt. casserole dish. Add green beans. 
Place chicken on top of beans. Combine soup and milk. Pour over chicken. 
Moisten remaining ™% of croutons with broth. Place them on the 
chicken. Pour desired amount of broth over entire casserole. Consistency 
of casserole should be similar to custard before baking. Bake at 300° for 
45 minutes. ! mace een in 

i _ Mrs. R. M. Chandler 

- (Thelma Carter) 


CHICKEN RATCLIFF 


2% lbs. chicken breasts, split bande 1 cup sherry 

(one per person) . | Celery, cut diagonally 
1 medium onion, sliced thin 1 stick margarine 
Salt and pepper totaste = = Meet 


Salt and pepper chicken and place in large flat baking dish. Cover with 
onion slices. Add enough celery chunks to cover. Dot with butter and 
add sherry. Cover tightly with foil and bake 1-1% hours at 350°. Serve 
with brown rice. Make gravy with drippings. May be cooked day before, 
then reheated for serving. = ete 

i Wet aS Ruth Ritner 





164 


CHICKEN RED BREAST 


aN Serves 2 
2 large chicken breasts Parsley flakes | | 
1 stick butter cut into Tbsp.-size Worcestershire sauce 
pats | 1 medium onion, sliced 
Salt 1 2-oz. jar pimento, sliced 
Pepper | 1/3 medium green pepper, diced 


Poultry seasoning 


Place chicken breasts in casserole. Cover chicken with butter pats and 
dash of salt and pepper. Cover with poultry seasoning. Sprinkle about 3 
Tbsp. parsley flakes over chicken. Sprinkle Worcestershire sauce gener- 
ously over breasts. Then top with sliced onion, green pepper and pimento. 
Bake in oven at 350° for one hour. This is a very pretty, colorful dish. 
Also good if served over rice. 

Mrs. Sam Johnson 

(Velma Harrison) 


BARBEQUED CHICKEN 


3 lb. chicken pieces 1 tsp. paprika 

1-2 Tbsp. butter 1 Thsp. lemon juice 

3 Tbsp. brown sugar | 2 Tbsp. vinegar 

1 tsp. salt 3 Tbsp. tomato catsup 

1 tsp. mustard 2 Tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 


Mix all ingredients except chicken in a sauce pan and heat until boiling. 
Put chicken pieces in 9” x 12” pan and pour sauce over it. In regular oven — 
cook at 350° for 1% hour covered. Remove cover and cook % hour or 
until sauce thickens and chicken browns. In microwave oven, use glass 
pan and cover with a paper towel (let towel go under the pan and be 
taunt across top). Cook 40 minutes, turning every 10 minutes. 

Mrs. Cleveland Cherry 

(Judy Kincheloe) 


| STUFFED CHICKEN BREASTS 


% chicken breast per person, boned _ Salt and pepper to taste 
1 heaping Tbsp. whipped butter —siItalian Salad Dressing 
1 tsp. slivered almonds | ||. Cornflake crumbs 


1 tsp. finely chopped parsley 
(or 4% tsp. dehydrated parsley) 


Do not remove skin from ahipken breasts. Press chicken flat with a heavy i 

knife or by pounding with a glass. Place on each chicken breast whipped _ 
butter, almonds, parsley, salt and pepper; carefully roll up using the skin _ 
of the chicken to hold it together. Dip in salad dressing; roll in cornflake 
crumbs and place on baking sheet which has been lined with aluminum 
foil. These may be made in advance, carefully sealed so as to prevent — 


freezer burn, and kept in freezer until ready to cook. Cook for one hour a 


at 350° and serve hot. If frozen, thaw before baking. © 
Mrs. J.C. Reynolds 


165 


OVEN FRIED CHICKEN BREASTS WITH CHERRY SAUCE 


3 large chicken breasts 
"4 cup unsifted plain flour 
1 Thsp. salt | 


‘4 tsp. white pepper (black if you 
desire) 
1/3 cup butter or margarine, melted 


Split chicken breasts to make 6 pieces. Wash and dry. In a brown paper 
bag, stir and shake together the flour, salt and pepper. Dip the chicken in 
the melted butter. Roll or shake the chicken, 2 pieces at a time, in the 
seasoned flour, Place chicken pieces, skin side up, in a very shallow bak- 
ing pan. Drizzle remaining butter over the chicken. Bake in 375° oven 
until lightly browned, about one hour. Serve with steamed rice and Sweet 
and Sour Cherry Sauce. 


Sweet and Sour Cherry Sauce 
1 16-02. can pitted light or dark 14 tsp. salt 
sweet cherries : 4 tsp. dry mustard 
1 Tbsp. cornstarch Dash ground cloves 
% cup lightly packed light brown 2 Tbsp. cider vinegar 
sugar . 1% tsp. soy sauce 


In sauce pan mix cornstarch, sugar, salt, mustard and cloves. Gradually 
stir in the syrup from the cherries, vinegar and soy sauce. Cook and stir 
constantly over moderate heat until boiling, slightly thickened and clear. 
Add cherries and reheat but do not boil. Makes about 1 pint. Spoon some 
sauce over chicken and serve remaining sauce from serving bowl. 

Mrs. Herbert E. Gurganus 


CHICKEN DIVAN 
Serves 6-8 


3 chicken breasts 1 tsp. curry 

2 pkg. frozen broccoli 1 onion 

2 cans cream of chicken soup Few pepper corns 

1 cup mayonnaise 3 carrots, cut up 

1 carton sour cream 3 celery stalks, cut up 

1 cup grated Cheddar cheese Salt, pepper, paprika and 
1 Tbsp. lemon juice Parmesan cheese 


Cook chicken breasts in water with celery, carrots, onion, salt, pepper and 
pepper corns until chicken comes off bone. Cook broccoli according to 
directions on package. Mix soup, sour cream, grated cheese, mayonnaise, 
lemon juice and curry together. Drain broccoli and put on bottom of flat, 
greased casserole (3-qt.). Sprinkle broccoli with Parmesan cheese. Re- 
move skin from chicken and cut into bite-size pieces. Put over broccoli 
and sprinkle again with Parmesan cheese. Pour sauce over chicken and 
_ sprinkle with cheese. Can store in refrigerator for a day or so until ready 
to cook. Cook in 350° oven, uncovered, 30 to 40 minutes. (Before cooking, 
dot with margarine.) 

Mrs. David Jay 

(Susan Klitzner) 


166 


HOLIDAY CHICKEN 


| Serves 10-12 
3 Tbsp. butter % tsp. sugar | Ae 
6 Tbsp. flour dane ¥ tsp. cayenne pepper — 
2 cups canned chicken broth %% tsp. paprika 
1 cup light cream % tsp. seasoned salt 
1 tsp. prepared yellow mustard 14 cup dry sherry 
tsp. salt 4 hard-boiled eggs, cubed 
Dash pepper . 4 cups cooked, cut-up chicken 
¥% tsp. allspice Buttered bread crumbs 


1% tsp. ground nutmeg 


Melt butter in sauce pan and stir in flour (if it lumps, keep the faith). 
Keep stirring and over low heat blend in broth, then cream. Cook over 
medium heat until thick, stirring constantly. Combine all seasonings, 
then blend into sauce. Stir in sherry, fold in eggs and chicken. Turn into 
3-qt. casserole. Top with buttered crumbs. Sauce may be made ahead 
and frozen, with or without chicken. Add eggs and sparey lites Pe 
This is excellent for a brunch or luncheon. 
Mrs. Eppa Hunton 


(Mary Peters) 
CHICKEN CASSEROLE ) 
| | Serves 4 

1 cup diced chicken | 2 cup mayonnaise 
1 cup celery, cooked | - 1 can sliced water chestnuts 
1 cup rice, cooked | % cup slivered almonds 
1 cup cream of chicken soup | 1 cup crushed corn flakes | 
1 Tbsp. chopped onion 14 stick melted oleo 


Mix first eight ingredients and put in buttered casserole. Mix butter and 
corn flakes and sprinkle over mixture. Bake 45 minutes at 350°. 
| Mrs. John Jolly | 
(Angela Blanton) 


_ CHICKEN BREAST iN WHITE WINE 


| Serves 8 
8 chicken breasts | 3 cups en Pee sauce or 2 cups 
4 Tbsp. butter ca Uhh | i white sauce and 1 can mushroom 
% cup white wine | eat soup 
Season to taste | Le CU a 1 cup sliced Hutton mushrooms > 


% cup slivered, toasted almonds 


Sauté chicken eres in butter 4 a light brown; arrange in a glass baking ’ 
dish or casserole. Add wine and seasoning to white sauce; add mush- 
rooms and pour over chicken. Bake at 350° for one hour. Sprinkle with 
toasted almonds 10 minutes before serving. | 
| Mrs. Ed Seigman 

(Ruth Corel) 


167 


BREAST OF CHICKEN WITH WILD RICE 


vith ait Serves 6 
6 Chicken breasts ee 2 cups heavy cream 
i large can sliced mushrooms _4 Tbsp. brandy 
% cup butter | | 4 Tbsp. dry sherry 
1 Tbsp. grated onion _ by % tsp. salt | 
1 cup wild rice ie Hy _ Pepper to taste 


Bone and skin chicken. Season with salt and pepper. Sauté in butter over 
low heat for 20 minutes or until golden brown. Remove chicken and keep 
warm. Add mushrooms and onions to butter. Cook for five minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Reduce heat and add cream slowly, stirring constantly. 
Simmer for five minutes. Add liquor and let simmer for five minutes. Ar- 
range chicken on wild rice and pour sauce over it. 

| Mrs. D. Worth Joyner 


CAREFREE CASSEROLE 


: | Serves 4 
1% cups Minute Rice : 1 cup cooked peas or peas and 
1 10%-oz. can condensed cream of ; carrots | | 
mushroom soup % tsp. salt 
1% cups water nN - % cup grated sharp cheese 
2 cups diced cooked chicken or. _ Almonds or water chestnuts 


1 12-0z. can boned chicken 


Measure rice into 1'4-qt. casserole. Blend soup and water in a sauce pan. 
Stir in chicken, peas and salt. Bring quickly to a boil, stirring occasional- 
ly. Stir into rice. Sprinkle with cheese. Cover and bake at 400° for 20 
minutes. Stir. Garnish with potato chips or hot French fried onion rings, 
if desired. Makes about 4 cups or 4 servings. Note: Tuna may be used 
instead of chicken. | ah : 

Mrs. R. L. Yelverton 

(Nancy Gordon) 


DOVE 
| Serves 6-8 
2 dozen dove 2 sticks margarine 
1% cup port wine. . | 1 small onion, chopped 
% cup soy sauce i et 1 4-oz. can mushrooms 
Seasoning flour (1 cup flour, % tsp. | 1 1-lb. can tomatoes 
salt, 4 tsp. pepper) 3-4 Tbsp. flour for gravy 


Marinate dove in port wine and soy sauce 6-8 hours. Drain dove and re- 
serve liquid. Roll dove in seasoned flour. Melt 1-1% sticks margarine in 
frying pan and sauté dove until brown. Remove dove to casserole dish 
or chicken roaster. Sauté onions in remaining margarine. Combine liquids 
(wine, soy sauce, mushroom liquid and tomato liquid). Stir in 3-4 Tbsp. 
flour, trying to get out most of the lumps. Pour this mixture into frying 
pan and cook gravy several minutes. Put mushrooms and tomatoes in 
casserole and pour gravy over. Dot with small pats of remaining mar- 
garine. Cover. Cook at 275° for 3-3 hours. 

| Mrs. Ben O. Yelverton, Jr. 

(Joan Currie) 


168 


TURKEY AND BROCCOLI CASSEROLE 


NY Serves 6 — 
2 10-oz. pkgs. frozen bracoali (spears 1 cup mayonnaise 
or florets) tsp. lemon juice 
Sliced turkey 14 tsp. curry powder 
1 can cream of chicken soup ny 14 cup slivered almonds 


Cook broccoli until tender. Drain and put in layer in baking dish. Lay 
slices of turkey over broccoli. To make sauce, mix the soup, mayonnaise, _ 
lemon juice, curry powder and slivered almonds and pour over the turkey 

and broccoli. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes, uncovered. 


Mrs. J. K. Murrill, Jr. 


SWISS TURKEY-HAM BAKE 


| Serves 6 

% cup chopped onion | : 2 Thsp. dry sherry 
2 Tbsp. margarine 2 cups diced, cooked turkey 
3 Tbsp. flour 1 cup diced, cooked ham 
% tsp. salt 1 5-oz. can water chestnuts, 
14 tsp. pepper drained and sliced 
1 3-0z. can undrained sliced 1% cups soft bread crumbs 

mushrooms _ % cup shredded Swiss cheese 
1 cup light cream 3 Tbsp. melted margarine 


Cook onion in margarine until tender. Blend in flour, salt and pepper; 
add undrained mushrooms, cream and sherry. Cook until thick. Add 
turkey, ham and water chestnuts. Pour into V-qt. casserole. Top with 
cheese. Mix bread crumbs with melted margarine and sprinkle around 
edges. Bake 25 minutes at 400° until lightly browned. Can be frozen 
ahead (do not add cheese and bread crumbs), or frozen after cooking. 


Mrs. Lyle Crumpler 
(Leslie Cloyes) 


CHICKEN BREASTS IN WINE 


| _ Serves 6 
6 chicken breasts ney tis, walt, 7 
We cup melted butter | 4 tsp. pepper 
1 onion, sliced ! 1 chicken bouillon cube dissolved 
1 clove garlic, minced or | in 1 cup hot water 
% tsp. garlic powder Aan 12 small potatoes, precooked 
2 Tbsp. flour i _ 1/3 cup red wine or sherry 


Brown chicken in the butter. Add sliced onion and garlic. In small bowl 
combine salt, pepper and flour. Add bouillon to flour mixture and mix 
well. Pour over browned chicken. Cover and cook over medium heat for 
30 minutes or longer. Add potatoes and wine. Garnish with parsley and 
serve. I use this recipe for my family using a cut-up frying-size chicken | 
and four large potatoes quartered. Serves a family of four adequately. 


Mrs. Jim Knight 
(Alice Diehl Barnes) 





170 


_ SPANISH CREAM 


a _ Serves 8 
3 cups milk (whole or : ‘ cup sugar He 
diluted evaporated) 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 Tbsp. gelatin Pinch Stn 


3 eggs, separated 


Seald together in top of double boiler the 3 cups Hailie and 1 | pieenean 
gelatin. Beat together 3 egg yolks, ‘4 cup sugar and pinch of salt. Pour 
scalded milk & gelatin over the egg mixture and then return to double boiler 
and cook until mixture will coat a spoon. Fold in the 3 egg whites (stiffly 
beaten), add vanilla. Pour into wet mold to congeal. Serve with wolpEeS 
cream, alone, or with orange jelly. 


Mrs. Paul Morgan 


SHERRY DELIGHT | | ; 
Serves 6 to 7 
3 eggs 1% cup of sugar 
% pint of cream, whipped Vanilla wafers, crushed 


4 Tbsp. Sherry 


Separate eggs. Beat yolks, add sugar and sherry. Cook in double boiler till 
thick. Let cool. Line ice tray with crushed vanilla wafers, add whipped 
cream to beaten egg whites. Then add to other mixture. Pour in tray and 
cover with crushed wafers. Freeze. 


Mrs. Julian Brantley 


BOILED CUSTARD 
1 quart milk % cups of sugar 
4 eggs . 1 tsp. vanilla 


Beat eggs together and gradually add sugar. Pour milk slowly over eggs, 
beating all the time. Put on heat stirring constantly. Cook until it coats 
spoon. Do not cook until too thick as it will thicken after it cools. 


Annie Gaynor 


CARAMEL RICE PUDDING 


Serves 6 | 


2 cups cooked rice | 1 tsp. vanilla 

1-1/3 cups milk 2 eggs, beaten 

% tsp. salt hier | 1/3 cup raisins (optional) 
4% cup brown sugar | Bread crumbs 

1 Tbsp. soft butter | Nutmeg 


Combine milk, salt, brown sugar, butter, vanilla, eggs and raisins. Beat Well’ 
and add to cooked rice. Sprinkle bread crumbs around bottom and sides ofa 
greased | quart baking dish, Put rice mixture in and cover top with bread 
crumbs and sprinkle with nutmeg. Sit in pie pan with water in center of 
oven. Bake at 350° 1 hour or until set. ? 


uve. CO: A. Almand, dr. 
(Betsy May) 


171 


DIET WORKSHOP “RICE PUDDING” 


; Mie Serves 2 
egg, beaten 1 tsp. imitation butter flavori 

3 oz. pkg. cottage cheese so hies 1 tsp. vanilla ay aadetaty 

1 oz. white bread, broken into pieces 2 packs Sweet ’N Low 

‘2 cup crushed pineapple, packed Dash cinnamon 
in pineapple juice Dash nutmeg 


Mix all ingredients. Pour in a small baking pan sprayed with Pam. Bak 
350° for 30 minutes. Serve hot or cold. act inet OMA Ta Sent ee 
Mrs. James Ezzell 
(Patsy Wall) 


PLUM PUDDING 
i quart bread crumbs 1 cup molasses 
i’% cups sweet milk , 1 tsp. soda 
1 cup sugar 3 Tbsp. flour 
~% |b. butter 1 cup raisins 
1 tsp. cinnamon 1 cup chopped nuts 
1 tsp. cloves 1 cup chopped prunes 


2 eggs 


Soak bread crumbs in sweet milk for one hour. Cream together sugar, butter, 
cinnamon, cloves and 2 eggs. Add bread crumbs with molasses and soda. 
Beat well. Mix flour, raisins, nuts, prunes and add to mixture. Cook in 
cupcakes at 350° for 20-25 minutes. (They puff up, then down). Top with 
Cool-Whip flavored with brandy. 

| Mrs. James C. Gardner 


FROZEN DAIQUIRI SOUFFLE 


Serves 8 to 10 or makes 3 pies 


10 eggs, separated 2 Tbsp. plain gelatin 
1 cup sugar (2 Knox pkgs.) 
1 cup lime juice % to 1 cup light rum 
1% cup lemon juice 3 cups whipping cream 
Grated rind of 2 lemons Lime slices 
and 2 limes Pistachio nuts, crushed (optional) 
Pinch of salt | 6-cup souffle dish or 


3 graham cracker crusts 


Beat egg yolks until light and fluffy. Add one cup sugar gradually and beat 
until smooth and light in color. Add lime and lemon juice, grated rind, and 
pinch of salt. Mix until blended. Place over low heat and stir until thickened. 
Soak gelatin in rum and stir into hot mixture until allis dissolved. Cool. Beat 
egg whites until stiff. Whip two cups cream over ice until stiff. Fold egg 
whites into custard, then fold in whipped cream. Lightly oil or Pam 6-cup 
souffle dish and wrap an oiled paper collar around the top. Pour mixture into 
souffle dish or into three 8-812 inch graham cracker crusts. Chill in refrig- 
erator. When chilled and set, whip remaining cream. Remove collar from 
souffle. Top pies or soufflé with whipped cream. Garnish with crushed nuts 
and lime slices. 

Mrs. Eppa Hunton 

(Richmond, Va.) 


172 


oe , 
LEMON SOUFFLE | 

Ne Serves 4 
34 cup sugar Juice of 1 lemon or 
2 Tbsp. butter i 3 Tbsp. Realemon 
2 eggs, separated Grated rind of 1 lemon 
2 Tbsp. flour (can use 1 tsp. bottled peel) 

1 cup milk 


Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten egg yolk, lemon jibe: lemon rind and © 

flour. Mix and add milk. Beat egg white until stiff, and fold into mixture. 

Bake in 1 quart soufflé dish set in a pan of hot water at 350° for 45 minutes. 
Mrs. Emerson Bear nonoHe yy 
(Lynn ee . 


MRS. W. H. GAITHER’S LEMON SPONGE 5 
? Serves 12 to 14 


1 pkg. plain lady fingers, about 18 Juice and rind of 3 lemons (2 cup) 
8 eggs % cup boiling water 

1% cups sugar % cup orange juice 

1% Thsp. gelatin _% pint whipping cream _ 


Beat yolks well, add 4 cup sugar, juice and rind of lemons. Cook in double 

boiler until thick. Soak gelatin in orange juice, add boiling water after gela- 

tin is dissolved and pour into yolk mixture. Let cool. Beat egg whites stiff — 

and add 1 cup sugar, gradually fold into yolk mixture. Line spring mold 

bottom and sides with split lady fingers. Pourin mixture. Let stand atleast 8 

hours in refrigerator. Release mold. Put whipped cream on top. | 
Mrs. Henry Gregory 


COFFEE MARSHMALLOW JELLY 


1 lb. marshmallows 1 cup pecans 
2 cups strong hot coffee % pint whipping cream 


Put marshmallows in a double boiler and pour over the Ginie iinet 2 
cups of hot coffee and stir until melted. Remove from heat and add 1 cup — 
pecans and pour into individual wet molds. Refrigerate to congeal. Serve | 
with a dollop of whpoee cream. 

| Evelyn Barrett Spencer , 


LEMON CURD (ENGLISH RECIPE) | 


2 cups sugar | ‘Ib. butter or taitentara tt 
3 eggs, beaten u Juice of 3 lemons 


Put sugar, eggs, juice, and Huon in saucepan. Bring to a tolling at a | 
remove immediately. Stir frequently. Let cool. May be keptin refrigerator for 
a week or longer, and is delicious as a filling for tart shells orasa pay for 
ice cream. | : 

Claude oe 


173 


- CHOCOLATE MOUSSE 


Serves 8 
4 egg whites % cup water 
1 cup sugar at 12 ozs. semi-sweet chocolate, 
% tsp. cream of tartar, bale melted and cooled 
dissolved in 1 tsp. water 1 pint heavy cream, whipped 


Beat egg whites until stiff. Ina saucepan, combine sugar, dissolved cream of 
tartar, and % cup of water. Cook mixture until it reaches the soft ball stage 
(232 to 234 degrees on a candy thermometer). Add cooked sugar mixtureina 
thin stream to egg whites, blending at medium speed until cooled. Fold in 
cooled, melted chocolate and whipped cream. Pour into a mold and refrig- 
erate for 3 to 4 hours before serving. 

Ricki Mottershead 


CHOCOLATE ANGEL DELIGHT 
Serves 12 to 16 


2 pkgs. chocolate chips 3 2 Tbsp. sugar 

4 egg yolks, beaten } : 1 pint whipping cream 

Pinch of salt 1 cup chopped nuts (optional) 
1 tsp. vanilla 1 cone type angel food cake 
4 egg whites, beaten Cherries or chocolate bits, 


to decorate (optional) 


Melt chocolate chips in double boiler, remove from heat. Slowly add beaten 
egg yolks and pinch of salt, beat well, add vanilla. Fold in beaten egg whites 
to which 2 Tbsp. sugar have been added. Fold in whipped cream and nuts. 
Tear the angel food cake in small pieces. Line the bottom of a 12x8x2 cake 
pan with cake, saving half of cake for top layer. Pour half the chocolate mix 
over angel food cake. Cover with remaining pieces of cake and pour last of 
the chocolate mix over this. Chill 6 hours or longer. Serve with whipped 
cream topped with a cherry or chocolate bits. 
3 Mrs. John Jolly 
(Angela Blanton) 


FRENCH DESSERT 
® Serves 6 
2 cups vanilla wafer crumbs ae cup whipped cream 
1 cup confectioners sugar “ 1 cup chopped nuts 


1 stick butter 1 cup crushed pineapple, drained 


2 eggs, well beaten 

Place 1 cup of the crumbs in an ungreased baking dish about 2 inches deep. 

Melt butter, add sugar and beaten eggs and cook for about one minute. Pour 

over crumbs. Combine whipped cream, nuts and crushed pineapple and pour 

over egg mixture. Top with the other cup of crumbs. Refrigerate overnight. 
Mrs. Emerson Scarborough, Sr. 
Yanceyuille, N. C. 


174 


EASY ELEGANT DESSERT 
| Serves 8 — 
1 lb. macaroons (reserve | 2 quarts mocha ice cream 
10 for topping) (or combination of coffee 
Rum | and chocolate) 


% pint whipping cream, whipped 


Line sides and bottom of silver bowl with macaroons that have been 
thoroughly soaked in rum. Chill. Toast and crumble 10 macaroons. When — 
ready to serve fill macaroon lined bowl with ice cream. Top with whipped 
cream and sprinkle with toasted macaroon crumbs. 
Mrs. Randolph F. Totten 
Richmond, Va. 


OZARK PUDDING 
Serves 6 
%4 cup sugar % tsp. salt : 
1 egg 34 cup chopped apple 
% cup flour % cup chopped pecans 
1% tsp. baking powder 1 tsp. vanilla 


Beat together sugar and egg. Stir in flour, baking powder and salt. Add 
apple, pecans and vanilla. Bake at 350° for 30-35 minutes in greased 8” 
square pan. Serve warm with vanilla ice cream. 
Mrs. Emerson Scarborough 
(Lynn Wall) 


APPLE CRISP I 


Makes 2 large servings 


2 cups sliced, pared, cored % tsp. cinnamon 
tart apples (about 2 medium) 1% tsp. nutmeg 

1 cup brown sugar, packed 3 Tbsp. soft butter 

'% cup all purpose flour Vanilla ice cream 


1% cup Quick Quaker Oats 


Preheat oven to 350°. Grease 9x5x8” loaf pan. Layer apples in bottom of pan. 
Blend remaining ingredients with fork until crumbly. Spread the mixture 
over apples. Bake 35-40 minutes. Serve warm topped with vanilla ice cream. 
Mrs. Frank Harrison 
(Josephine Vann) 





175 


_ APPLE CRISP II 


Makes 6 servings 


8 apples, peeled and sliced 1 cup flour 
4 cup white sugar ‘2 cup brown sugar 
Dash of salt 1 stick butter, softened, not melted 


12 tsp. cinnamon 


Place apples in small casserole dish. Mix white sugar, salt and cinnamon 
and sprinkle over apples. In separate bowl mix flour, brown sugar and butter 
with pastry blender, Mixture will be slightly lumpy. Sprinkle this mixture 
over apples. Bake uncovered at 350° for 45 minutes. Serve hot or cold. Top 
with ice cream or cheese. Quick and easy! 


Mrs. G. Daniel Knight, Jr. 


_ (Norma Pittard) 
y! hi 
BANANAS FLAMBE 
ria Serves 6 
4a cup butter | | 2 cup rum 
42 cup brown sugar 1 quart vanilla ice cream 


6 bananas 


Melt butter in saucepan or chafing dish. Add brown sugar stirring until 
sugar melts and a caramel sauce is formed. Peel bananas and slice in half. 
_ Add to caramel sauce and simmer about 5 minutes. Add rum. Flamé and 
serve on ice cream. 

Mrs. Earl Baysden | 


BANANA PUDDING I 


% cup sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 
2 cups milk Vanilla wafers 
3 eggs, separated 6 bananas 


Custard: Combine % cup sugar with the milk and egg yolksin top of double 
boiler. Cook over boiling water stirring occasionally until mixture thickens 
and coats spoon. Add vanilla. Line bottom of deep casserole dish with va- 
nilla wafers, top with a layer of sliced bananas. Pour portion of custard over 
bananas. Repeat with layer of bananas and custard until you have used all. 
Meringue: Beat egg whites with 2 cup sugar until stiff but not dry. Beat 
until peaks form, Put meringue on top of the banana pudding. Cook in hot 
oven (425°) about five minutes or until lightly browned. 

Mrs. Cleveland Cherry 

(Judy Kincheloe) 





176 


BANANA PUDDING II 


Serves 8 — 
3°%4 cups milk | 2 tsp. vanilla extract | 
2 314-02. pkgs. vanilla oat aubig . 1 3-0z. pkg. ladyfingers (12) 
and pie mix 4 bananas, sliced coat crosswise 
3 eggs, separated 4 tsp. nutmeg | 
1 cup whipping cream, stiffly beaten 1/ 3 cup sugar 


Blend milk and pudding mix in pan. Add 3 egg yolks and beat es aaul 
smooth. Cook, stirring constantly until mixture comes to a boil. Remove 
from heat and cover pudding. Cool 30 minutes. Fold in whipped cream and — 
vanilla. Arrange half of the ladyfingers on bottom of casserole. Spoon half 
of pudding mixture on top and arrange 2 bananas over this. Sprinkle 
nutmeg on top and then repeat layer. Beat 3 egg whites until foamy and then 
add sugar. Beat until stiff. Spoon over pudding. Bake 8 minutes at 350°. 

Mrs. John Hammond 

(Anna Spruill) 


POACHED ITALIAN PLUMS WITH MERINGUE 


Serves 8 
1% cup sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 cup water 2 egg whites 
1 lb. fresh Italian plums, washed 14 tsp. salt 


In a saucepan bring to boil 1 cup sugar and 1 cup water. Boil syrup for 5 
minutes. Drop in plums and “tsp. vanilla. Cook plums over low heat, spoon- © 
ing syrup over them frequently for 3-4 minutes or until they are tender but 
still hold their shape. Transfer plums and syrup to a casserole dish. Beat egg 
whites with salt until they hold soft shape. Gradually beat in remaining 
sugar and vanilla and beat meringue until it holds a definite point. Heap 
meringue over the plums and bake mixture at 350° for 12- 15 minutes. Serve 
dessert at room temperature. 
Mrs. Norman Daniels 


CHERRY DESSERT 


| Serves 8 
1 cup sour cherries | 1 cup sugar ; 
1 cup sugar had 1 stick melted butter | 
1 tsp. red coloring (1 cup sweet cherries and 
34 cup self-rising flour | 44 cup sugar may be used instead 
 Acupmilk — ! of sour cheeries and 1 cup sugar) 


Mix cherries, sugar and red coloring aid let stand. Combine self-rising flour, 
milk, sugar and butter, and mix well. Pour batter into well greased oblong 
baking dish. Spoon cherries over batter. Bake at 350° for 35 to 40 minutes. 
Serve with whipping cream or ice cream. 

Mrs. Joel Locke 

(Jeanne Horton) 


177 


CHERRY COBBLER 


Serves 6 
% cup sugar — | % stick butter 
2 cup self-rising flour 1 21-02. can of fruit pie filling 


4% cup milk 


Melt butter in casserole in oven at 350°. Mix flour, sugar and milk. When 
butter melts pour mixture on top of butter. (DO NOT STIR). Pour in pie 
filling (DO NOT STIR). Bake at 350° for 30 minutes uncovered. 


Mrs. Gus Tulloss 


(Bet Munden) 
PEACH COBBLER 
Makes 8 servings 
% or 1 cup milk 1 cup flour 
1 cup sugar 4 stick butter or margarine 


2% cups fresh peaches, 
sliced and sweetened 


Mix dry ingredients; add milk to form batter. Melt butter in 9 inch square 
baking pan. Pour batter into the buttered pan and add fruit. Do not stir fruit 
into batter. It will rise to cover most of surface. Bake at 350° until brown, 
about 45 minutes. 

Mrs. F. Stephen Moore 

(Marilyn Ward) 


HOT PEACH PUDDING 
1 cup Bisquick 144 cups sugar 
1 cup fresh peaches or 1% cups fruit juice (from peaches) and 
1 1-lb. can sliced peaches, water to make 114 cups 
drained (reserve liquid) 2 Tbsp. butter 


1/3 cup milk 


Hard Sauce 
6 Tbsp. butter | 1% tsp. vanilla or sherry flavoring 
1% cups powdered sugar 


Mix Bisquick, 4% cup sugar, peaches, and milk (only enough milk to make 
thick dough). Spread in buttered casserole pan. Heat 1 cup sugar, fruit juice, 
water and butter to boil. Pour over dough mixture. Bake at 350° about 30 
minutes or until golden brown. The dough will rise to top while baking. 
(When using apples or blueberries, use orange juice for juice). Serve while 
warm with hard sauce. Hard Sauce: Cream butter well. Add sugar grad- 


ually, then add flavoring. 
Mrs. W. B. McCrary 
(Mary Janice Lacy) 


178 


ORANGE FRUIT DESSERT en 
, _ Serves 8 
1 30-oz. can fruit cocktail, tndreined | 1 orange, lenhay ‘or | 
4 Tbsp. frozen orange juice concentrate 1 can mandarin oranges, drained 
1 banana, diced lat Orange or lime sherbert eg 


Mix and chill thoroughly. Borel in sherbet or parfait glasses with orange or 


lime sherbert on top. 
Mrs. Don Conley | 


| (Chick Lancaster) 
BLUEBERRY YOM-YUOM : een 
: } i Serves 8-10 
1% cups graham cracker crumbs 11% cups powdered sugar | nate 
1%, cup softened margarine ; 1 8-oz. pkg. softened cream cheese | 
14 cup sugar | 1 21-oz. can prepared pie filling | 


1 box Dream Whip 


(Let butter and cheese get really soft). Remove '4 cup crumbs and reserve to | 

sprinkle on top. Then mix remaining crumbs, margarine and sugar. Press 

against bottom of 8-inch square pan. Bake at 375° for 8 minutes. Cool. _ 

Prepare Dream Whip as directed on package. Add powdered sugar; add 

softened cream cheese and beat well. Alternate layers of pie filling and 

cream mixture. Sprinkle with reserve crumbs. Refrigerate. 7 
Mrs. Henry O. Handy, Jr. 
Cherry Hill, N. J. 


FRUIT PIE DESSERT 


- Serves 10 


1 cup flour 8 oz. cream cheese 

1 cup chopped nuts (room temperature) ae 

1%, cup brown sugar | 1 pkg. Dream Whip, apeneeds 

1 stick melted margarine : as on package 

% cup sugar — 1 22-o0z. can ry pie neato! 


% tsp. vanilla : 
Crust: Mix and press flour, chopped nuts, brown sugar and margarine oe ice 
greased 2 quart pyrex dish. ‘Cook 10 minutes at 350° and cool. Filling: Mix | 
sugar, vanilla and cream cheese and cream until smooth. Fold in Dream 
Whip. Pour into crust. Top with blueberry pie filling or fruit of choice. 
Mrs. James H. Waters 
(Barbara Southerland) 


| , 

FRESH STRAWBERRY PARFAIT ep 
| aan | Serves 6 to 8 

22 miniature marshmallows | 1 cup whipped cream , | | 

1 lemon 1 cup fresh strawberries 


Melt marshmallows in double boiler. Add j juice of lemon and mix. Fold in Y 
whipped cream. Get it smooth before folding 1 in strawberries. Place 1 in ice © 
tray and put in refrigerator. ee 
Mrs. David Jay 
(Susan Klitzner) 


179 


_ STRAWBERRY DESSERT 


| | hes Serves 8 
1 pkg. frozen strawberries = 4% pint whipped cream 
12 cup powdered sugar _ 2 eggs 


1 10-0z. box vanilla wafers _ 1 cup chopped pecans 
1 stick margarine . 


Cream sugar and margarine at low speedon mixer. Add eggs. Roll wafers. 
Divide in half and put half the crumbs in bottom of pan. Add half whipped 
cream, half butter and sugar mixture, and all the fruit. Add remaining butter 
and sugar, whipped cream and crumbs. Crumble nuts over top. Chill several . 
hours or overnight. 
Mrs. Spruill Bunn 
(Betty Mraz) 


FROZEN STRAWBERRY DELIGHT 


Serves 12 
1 cup flour 2/3 cup white sugar 
14 cup brown sugar | 1 10-oz. pkg. frozen sliced 
% cup chopped pecans strawberries, slightly thawed 
2 cup melted butter 2 Tbsp. lemon juice 
2 egg whites 2 pint whipping cream, whipped 


Mix flour, brown sugar, pecans and butter and spread in shallow pan (9x12). 
Bake at 350° for 20 minutes and stir several times. Take 1/3 of mixture out to 
use later. Combine egg whites, sugar, lemon juice and berries at high speed 
until mixture will form peaks. Fold in whipped cream. Spread this over 
crumbs in pan. Sprinkle the mixture previously taken out of pan over top. 
Freeze. Slice and serve when frozen. 

Mrs. Gerald Cox 


BOURBON FRUIT COMPOTE 


Serves 8 plus 


2 1-lb. jars mixed fruits for salads 

1 1-lb. box, coconut macaroons, well crumbled 
% cup light brown sugar — 1 cup bourbon whisky 

1 Tbsp. ground cinnamon | 14 lb. butter or margarine 
4 tsp. nutmeg 1% cup juice from fruit 


Drain fruit, reserve juice. Melt butter in glass baking dish (6”x11” or 9x13”). 
Cut fruit into bite size pieces as necessary and layer in pan alternating with 
crumbled cookies, ending with fruit on top. Mix spices and brown sugar. 
Sprinkle on top. Pour over bourbon and % cup juice blended. Bake 45 minutes 
at 350°. Serve hot with Cool Whip, ice cream, etc. 
Mrs. Raymond T. Doyle 
(Eleanor Prevost) 


180 


MOCK AMBROSIA | j 
ees 4 to 6 R 
1 cup Chconue. either fresh or 2 1 cup miniature marshmallows a 
moist-canned | 1 cup sour cream 
1 1l-oz. can mandarin orange segments tsp. salt 


1 cup pineapple tidbits 


Drain orange segments and mix all ingredients. Gurnieh with cherries or 
finely chopped nuts. Chill. 
Mrs. J. W. E. Joyner 


(Eleanor Armfield) — 
AMBROSIA 
Serves 10 or 12 
3 cups sour cream | ! 4 cups mandarin oranges _ 
% |b. tiny marshmallows 4 cups of pineapple chunks 
1/3 cup of white Creme de Cacao Toasted coconut 


Add the liqueur to the sour cream and stir until smooth. Fold in marsh- 
mallows and well drained fruit. Chill and serve with a Pee of toasted 
coconut. Easy and delicious! 

Mrs. Henry Mion, 

Battleboro, N. C 


GRAHAM CRACKER LOG pe | 

| _ Serves 12 

2 cups graham cracker crumbs 2 cups chopped pecans CS essa 
2 cups miniature marshmallows 1 cup cream 


2 cups chopped dates 


Mix 1% cups crumbs, marshmallows, nuts, and dates. Add cream and mix 
well. Shape into ° Jog” and roll in remaining crumbs. Wrap in foil and chill 
until serving time. Slice and serve by itself or with a dollop of Cool Whip. 
Mrs. Ben E. Moore, Jr. 
(Sue Battle) 


‘TRIFLE (ENGLISH) | 
: Serves 8 to 12 


lb. stale pound cake : 1 11-0z. tin mandarin oranges | 
34 cup medium sherry (optional) 1 pint custard or 

Strawberry jam instant vanilla pudding 

1 4-oz. packet orange jello | ae 1 pint whipping cream — 

1 4-oz. packet strawberry jello _ % cup walnuts 

3 bananas, sliced | Maraschino cherries 


Place pound cake at bottom of ties glass or pyrex bowl. Spread with straw- 
berry jam. Pour sherry over this. Make orange jello according to package. 
Add mandarin oranges when almost set. Pour over cake. Do the same with 
the strawberry jello and bananas. Pour over orange jello. Top with cold — 
vanilla custard. Whip cream, spread over custard. Dot with walnuts and 
cherry halves. Chill between layers. Refrigerate. 


Mavis Bobbitt 


181 


_ LIGHT FROZEN DESSERT 


| ne Serves 15 
1 13-oz. can evaporated milk, © Food coloring of your choice 
chilled until thick — ai a Coconut, chocolate shavings or 
1 cup sugar | Geese RS gs vanilla wafer crumbs as desired 
5 Tbsp. lemon juice . | Crushed graham crackers, or 
1 8-oz. can of crushed pineapple, or Crushed vanilla wafers, or 


1 8-oz. jar of cherries, diced, or Crushed Oreo cookies 
3 Thsp. lemon juice aan 


Make crust from choice of graham crackers, vanilla wafers or Oreo cookies. 
Mix milk, sugar, lemon juice and coloring and fruit flavor of your choice. 
Place on crust in a 18x9x2 pan. Top with coconut, chocolate shavings, or 
crumbs. This dessert looks pretty for parties, especially bridal parties, or it 
can be color-coordinated for Halloween or other holidays. Freeze. Keeps 
indefinitely. | 

: ' Mrs. H. 8S, Johnson | 

Hamilton, N. C. 


CREAM CHEESE FOLDOVERS 
| Makes 4 dozen 


2 cups all-purpose flour | 8 oz. cream cheese 
14 tap. salt | Confectioners sugar 
1 cup soft butter ANG Tart jelly 


Sift flour with salt. Cream butter with cream cheese, add to flour mixture. 

Chill for several hours. Roll to 4%” thickness on board covered evenly with 

confectioners sugar. Cut in trapezoids 2 inches on widest side. Put dab (2 

tsp.) jelly in center of each and fold over, sealing lightly. Bake on ungreased 

cookie sheet at 375° for 15 minutes. Do not brown. Store in refrigerator. 
Mrs. Ron Owen 


MERINGUE SHELLS 


Serves 8 
3 eggs | | PR aAIA | 1 tsp. vanilla 
%tsp.cream of tartar 1 cup sugar 
Dash salt | 


Separate eggs while still cold; then bring egg whites to room temperature so 
they’ll whip to their fullest. Add cream of tartar, dash salt, and vanilla. Beat 
till frothy. Gradually add sugar; continue beating to very stiff peaks. 
Meringue should be glossy, not dry. Cover baking sheet with plain 
ungreased paper or foil. Draw 8 circles, 3/2 inches in diameter; spread each 
with about 1/3 cup meringue. Using back of a teaspoon, shape inside of the 
meringue shell, mounding around the edges to make soft peaks. Bake in very 
slow oven (275°) 1 hour. For extra-crisp meringues, turn off heat and let 
shells dry in oven (door closed) about 1 hour. Fill meringues with ice cream 
and sauce, fresh fruit, or a cream filling. For variety, you might want to fold 
chopped nuts or flaked coconut into the meringue before shaping. 
Mrs. S. R. Purvis 


182 


CREPES SUZETTE 


Makes 24 
3 eggs % tsp. salt. | 7 
1% cups all-purpose flour 1% cups milk : | 
1 tsp. sugar ; 2 Thsp. melted butter 


With electric mixer, beat eggs about one minute (med. speed) until yolks and 
whites are well blended. Add half of dry ingredients, mix well; then addrest _ 
of dry ingredients and mix well. (If mixture is too thick add some milk). Now 
add milk a little at a time until half is used, then pour in remainder and beat — 
until smooth. Beat in melted butter. Cover and set aside at room tempera- — 
ture for 1 to 2 hours. (May be refrigerated overnight). To cook crepes: Over — 
medium heat brush butter or oil in small skillet (5 or 6 inches across bottom). © 
Lift off heat and ladle 1% to 2 Tbsp. batter just to coat bottom of pan. Swirl © 
off excess and cook until golden brown, turn and cook for about 4% min- © 
ute. Turn out on clean dry towel to cool. May be frozen. a 


Sauce for Crepes 


1 tsp. grated orange rind % cup orange juice 
3 Tbsp. butter 4 cup light rum 
1% cups confectioners sugar Brandy 


Heat orange rind, butter, sugar, and orange juice in double boiler, stirring _ 
constantly, until smooth. Then add rum. Fold crepes in quarters and place 
on shallow, hot platter. Pour sauce over crepes and sprinkle with confec- 
tioners sugar. Place in 400° oven until sugar melts. Bring to table and cover 
to ’4 inch depth with brandy. Light brandy and permit to burn down. Serve , 
at once. . 


Ice Cream Filling for Crepes 


3 Tbsp. more or less vanilla Kraft hot fudge sauce, heated 
ice cream per crepe | | 


Spoon ice cream on crepe and roll. Place fold under and run under broiler just. 

until crepe gets hot (a few seconds). ay on plate and pour heated fudge sauce 

on top. : | | 
Mrs. C. Aubrey Almand, Jr. 


oe Mey) 
DESSERT FONDUE 
1 cup semi-sweet chocolate bits Lee 2 Thsp. brandy | 
1 Tbsp. water 1% tsp. instant coffee powder 
2 Tbsp. heavy cream Dash cinnamon 


In fondue pot over very low heat combine chocolate and water; stir until i 
chocolate melts and is smooth. Add cream, brandy, coffee powder and cinna- 
mon. Stir until smooth; transfer to fondue stand, keep warm on very low 
heat, add warm milk if mixture becomes too thick. To serve, dip pieces of © 
fruit such as mandarin oranges, pineapple chunks, banana pieces, raw 
apple, etc. Also good with small pieces of angel cake. 

_ Betty Hobbs 


183 


- HOMEMADE ICE CREAM 
| es Serves 8 to 10 


4 pints Half ’N Half i i 2 cups sugar 
4 cups of fresh strawberries or | 2 Tbsp. lemon juice 
fresh peaches el 


Pour into freezer container. Make in electric or hand-turned ice cream 
freezer. nae 
| Mrs. Randy Anderson 


(Harriet Spruill) 
ICE CREAM 
| Makes 5 quarts 
5 eggs 1 large can pet evaporated milk 
1 cup sugar ; 1 Thsp. vanilla flavoring 
3 quarts milk — 1% pints fruit 


Beat sugar and eggs together. Scald 1 quart milk and pour over eggs and 
sugar. Add Pet milk and flavoring. Add sweetened fruit and put in 5-quart 
ice cream freezer. Fill with milk to line in freezer. 
| : | Mrs. George G. Whitaker 
(Ellen Faulkner) 


LEMON ICE CREAM 


Serves 6 
2 cups milk Whites of 2 eggs 
1 cup sugar 2 Tbsp. sugar 


Rind of 1 lemon ‘2 pint heavy cream 
Juice of 2 lemons : 


Dissolve sugar in milk. When thoroughly dissolved add grated rind of 1 
lemon and the juice of 2 lemons. Stir while adding lemon juice a little at a 
time. Turn into freezer ice tray and freeze until firm. (This can be made the 
night before.) Early in the morning beat 2 egg whites and add 2 Tbsp. sugar. 
Whip to a thick custard consistency % pint cream and combine with the 
. beaten egg whites. Mash first mixture that is frozen to a mush and add to 
cream and egg white mixture. Needs no stirring; just mix until smooth. 
Return to freezer until ready to serve. Refreshing after any meal! 
Mrs. Thomas B. Suiter, Jr. 


CARAMEL ICE CREAM 
Makes % gallon 
4 eggs 1 pint whipped cream 
2 cups milk | 1 cup toasted buttered pecans 
2 cups Blue Label Karo syru Pinch salt 


Beat eggs, add milk, syrup and salt. Cook in double boiler until this coats a 
spoon. Cool and fold in whipped cream and nuts. Freeze in ice cream freezer 
or in ice trays. Makes % gallon. This is a WW II recipe when sugar was a 
rationed item. 

Mrs. Don Conley 

(Chick Lancaster) 


184 


MACAROON ICE CREAM 
: : Makes 6 to 8 servings 
1 cup sherry 42 gallon vanilla ice cream, 

% to full bag of macaroon cookies partially melted 


Put sherry into bowl and crumble enough cookies into it to absorb all the 
liquid. Add ice cream and stir. Put into loaf pan or individual ahs dishes 
and freeze. (Make ahead and freeze). — 

Mrs. Myles Gaythwaite 

(Biddie Davenport) 


LIME SHERBET ous 
Serves 6 to 8 


1 3-oz. pkg. lime (or 2 tsp. of grated lemon rind 
lemon) jello 1 cup sugar 
% cup hot water 1 quart sweet milk 


Juice of two lemons 
Dissolve pkg. of jello in 2 cup hot water. Add other havedionts ag mix well. 
Pour into 2 freezer ice cube trays (without sectional dividers). Put into freezer 
until firm. Be sure to stir several times while freezing. Let stand at room — 
temperature before serving. 

Olivia Tanner 


QUICK LUNCHEON DESSERT 


Vanilla ice cream | 1 Tbsp. white creme de menthe 
1 tsp. Ovaltine 


In dessert dishes, add one or two scoops ice cream, sprinkle 1 tsp. of Ovaltine — 
over ice cream and pour 1 T’bsp. creme de menthe on top. Serve with cookies. 
Jane Vainwright 


FROZEN POPS 
1 3-oz. pkg. Jell-O gelatin a” 1 cup sugar 
1 small envelope unsweetened Hs 2 cups boiling water 
Kool-Aid | 2 cups cold water 


Put mixture in Sa popsicle holders and freeze. Children love them! — 
Mrs. Reid McAuley 
(Betty Robbins) 





185 


_ LUCILLE’S TEA CAKES 


lecupsugar OA ATA Te I tsp. vanilla 
1 stick margarine, softened | plas ee 4 cups self-rising flour 


2 eggs 


Cream softened margarine with sugar and eggs until light. Add in 
vanilla, Add sifted flour gradually. Makes a stiff dough. Works well if you 
form in a roll and chill, then slice thin. Cook 350° 10-12 minutes. Time 
depends on thickness of cookies. 

: Mrs. Charles T, Lane 


TEA COOKIES 
ny) : | | Makes 75 *4" bails 
1 1-lb. box powdered sugar | 1 small can frozen orange 


1 12-0z.box vanillawafers = = ~—_—juice, thawed 
| - Bakers angel flake coconut 


Crush vanilla wafers, blend with sugar. Add orange juice. Form in %4” balls, 
roll in coconut. These are sweet-tart and great for teas, etc. 
baal ea - Mrs. Thomas Vaughan 
(Janice Grossman) 


HEATH BAR COOKIES | 


3 sticks oleo 8 cups flour 


1% cups sugar 6 Heath Bars, freeze 
2 tsp. vanilla and break into pieces 
14 tsp. soda 


Combine all ingredients. Roll into ite (nickel size). Place on ungreased 
cookie sheet. (Leave room between. They will spread). Bake 350° for 12 


minutes. . 
| | Ny Mrs. Michael S. Colo 
(Mary Alice Barr) 
HOLIDAY FRUIT DROPS 
Wintec te . an) ee i Makes 8 dozen cookies 

3% cups sifted all-purpose flour % cup buttermilk 

1 tsp. baking soda ans 1 tsp. vanilla extract 

% tsp. salt . 1% cups chopped walnuts, 

1 cup soft (not runny or | ‘ | pecans or other nuts 

whipped) butter or margarine 2 cups halved candied cherries 
2 cups light brown sugar, packed | 2 cups cut-up pitted dates 
2 eggs 


Sift together into bowl and reserve: flour, soda and salt. Put butter or 
margarine in large bow] of electric mixer (or other bowl if mixer is not avail- 
able). Add sugar and eggs. Beat with mixer or wooden spoon until mixture is 
light and fluffy. Add buttermilk, vanilla extract and flour mixture. Mix well. 
Stir in nuts, cherries and dates. Drop by teaspoonfuls on lightly greased 
cookie sheets. Top each with a nut half, if desired. Bake in moderate oven 
(350°F.) 12-15 minutes or until lightly browned. Remove to wire racks to cool. 
Can be frozen. : | | 
| Mrs. Robert L. Spencer 
(Laura Jane Lynch) 


186 


MOTHER'S ICE BOX COOKIES 


2 eggs, well beaten — ae 3% Gaps sifted flour 


2 cups light brown sugar 2 Tbsp. baking powder Voge: 
1 cup chopped nuts (pecans) | % tsp. salt 
2/3 cup melted butter - 1 tsp. vanilla 


Mix all together and form in 2 rolls (large) or 4 smaller pound rolls. Puti in 
freezer and slice thin and bake 350° until light brown. 8-10 minutes. Freezes _ 
well after cooking. Also keeps well without freezing. _ a) 

’ Mrs. tans Bayton Suiter, Jr. a 


GOLDEN DROP CAKES 


1 box yellow cake mix : 2 lemons (juice and grated rind) — 
2 oranges (juice and grated rind) 14 lbs. confectioners sugar 


Follow directions on cake mix. It calls for 1-1/3 cup water (1 always pour 1/3 
cup of corn oil and fill the rest with water, making 1-1/3 cups). Remove2tsp. — 
from oil and water. Bake in small muffin tins at 350° for 10 minutes. Mix — 
juice and rind of oranges and lemons with confectioners sugar. Beatin _ 
blender until smooth. Drop warm cakes in mixture. Put on cookie pre to 
drain. Freeze well. ; a 
Mrs. Julian Brantley, or 


LACE COOKIES I 


Makes 4 dozen » cookies ae 


1 cup sifted flour | % cup tléax corn syrup 
1 cup chopped nuts : i eup butter ne 
% cup brown sugar 1 tsp. vanilla | 


Mix flour and nuts and set aside. Combine sugar, syrup ana butter in thea 

pan and bring to boil over low heat, stirring constantly. Remove from heat. | 

Blend in flour mixture. Add vanilla, cover pan with foil. Drop dough on to © 

cookie sheet by scant teaspoonful, about 3 inches apart. Bake at 350° for 8- 10 : 

minutes. Cool cookies until they can be removed from foileasily. 
: Mrs. Larry Diedrick 


(Hannah Sipe 
face COOKIES Il 
2 cups oatmeal ) aaa tt fees 2 Sick butter 
1 Thsp. flour (OGC so 2 eggs, beaten 
2 cups sugar Pea ih 4 Ces tape vanilla 


12 tsp. salt | ‘4 
Mix oatmeal, fone sugar ae galt poes Melt butter and ane slightly. ie 





Add beaten eggs and vanilla. Mix dry ingredients with butter mixture. Cut _ 


about 12 pieces of foil to fit cookie sheets. Dot 2 tsp. batter 2inches aparton 

foil. Bake at 325° 10 to 12 minutes or until light brown. Remove fou igs | 

cookies from oven. Let wc on foil then ee off. | ! 
He Mrs. Norman Daniele: Da hee 











187 


_ MOLASSES COOKIES 1 
Pe gE ae a _ Makes 30 to 35 cookies 


1 cup sugar ea . me a ; } Il tsp. soda 
I cup molasses _ eB or 6 cups plain flour 
1 egg ! Va aes ook Pineh ginger 


1 cup butter | 


Cream butter, add sugar and egg and molasses. Sift soda and ginger into 
flour and add to creamed mixture. Form into long roll approximately 2 
inches in diameter. Wrap in wax paper. Chill approximately 1 hour. Slice %4 
inch thick. Cook 15 to 20 minutes at 350°, : 
Lees Tate Mrs. B. F. Currin 
(Betsy Bullock) 


MOLASSES COOKIES II 


_ 2/3 cup margarine One 2/3 cup brown sugar 
1 egg, beaten | 1/3 cup white sugar 
1 tsp. cinnamon ~. T4 cup molasses. 
i tsp. ginger ; a He ae 2 tsp. baking soda 
%tsp.cloves | Te > 2enps flour 


‘Cream margarine and sugars, add egg, molasses, spices, soda and flour. Roll 
into balls the size of a hazelnut and roll in granulated sugar. Place on 
greased cookie sheet at 350° for 10-12 minutes. Great recipe for the children 
to help with the rolling, etc. and not make a complete havoc of your kitchen. 

‘It’s also their favorite cookie, Me 

: Bonnie Bean Bennett 

- STAINED GLASS COOKIES 

cua : Makes 3 to 4 dozen cookies 


1 large pkg. colored marshmallows . 1 stick margarine 
112-02. pkg. semi-sweet chocolate bits 1% cup pecans chopped fine 


_ Cut marshmallows into six pieces with electric knife dipped in hot water. 
_ Melt margarine and chocolate bits in saucepan over very low heat. Let cool. 
Add nuts. Pour mixture over marshmallows and mix well. Divide mixture 
and make into two rolls wrapped in Saran wrap. Chill several hours. Slice 
_ thin with electric knife. | 
| SON Sn ay Linda Turner 


- JANE’S COOKIES 
2 sticks butter (not margarine) _‘# tsp. soda 
2 cups light brown sugar me 1 tsp. baking powder 


2 eggs 2 cups chopped nuts — 


3 cups cake flour | 

Cream butter and sugar. Sift flour. Add eggs, flour, soda and baking powder 

to butter mixture. Add chopped nuts. Rollin 4 rolls and put on floured waxed 

_ paper. Chill. Slice and bake as you need. This mix freezes well. Bake at 350° 

until golden brown. — 
Pagalcag ity) Mrs. William Eskridge 


188 


“SUGAR COOKIES. | Ce 
ie | | Makes approximately 200 small cookies ie 
3 eggs, well beaten | | at: 6 cups flour wane ane 
2 cups sugar tsp. salt 
1 cup melted margarine | 6 level tsp. baking powder Ue 
(2 sticks) | A Tbsp. orange juice 


Beat eggs until flufty, sad’ sugar, then melted margarine a. orange a 
juice. Sift together flour, salt, and baking powder and mix with sugar — 
mixture. This makes a stiff dough. Roll thin, cut out with fancy cookie — 
cutters, then sprinkle with granulated sugar before baking. These decorate _ 
easily with colored sugars, etc., for holiday use. Bake on ungreased cookie — : 
sheets at 375° until delicate brown. Remove to brown sa ude to cool. Store : 


in tight containers. Cookies keep well for 2 to 3 weeks. | 
Alice A. Barnes 


OLD FASHIONED SUGAR COOKIES 


Makes 3: to 4 dozen denial | 


if large eve. : % tsp. soda. 
1 cup butter 14 tsp. salt. 
1 cup sugar 1 ios vanilla © 


232-3 cups all-purpose flour 


Cream butter and sugar. Add egg and mix ven Add Ace tide ona ealt 
which have been sifted together. Add vanilla and blend thoroughly. Refrig- — 
erate dough for several hours. Remove chilled dough in small portions and _ 
roll on a floured surface to approximately % inch thickness, Cut in desired — 
- shapes with cookie cutters and decorate with colored sugars or decorettes. — 
Transfer to cookie sheet and bake at 350° for 8-10 minutes until very lightly ‘ 


browned. Remove from cookie sheets, cool and store in airtight pian’ 
Mrs. Tom Coley is 
(Barbara Bell) | 


SOUR CREAM CHOCOLATE COOKIES > 


% cup Chonrenuie Navid ae ae ee : i ay, bokine powder 


1 egg, beaten Mei tsp. salt 
1 cup broken walnuts OG Se Sta baking soda ; Ns 
2 cups sifted cake flour le a i Weep dairy sour cream (07) ero) 
2 2-0z. squares unsweetened | a 1 eup brown sugar, seis packed eat Nore 
chocolate, melted = LU eee Ce tsp. cinnamon ae | 


Cream shortening and s sugar: aaa eee and blendi in. Add walnuts “ad pele 
chocolate. Mix in and sift flour, salt, baking soda, and baking powder. Add _ 
cinnamon. Add alternately with sour cream to chocolate mixture. Drop from he 
teaspoon on greased ea sheets, Bake) in a 375° oven for 15 minutes. A 

- Mrs. Vincent Bteiice | ny: 


‘ ne Boykin) 





Makes 8 dozen cookies: id 





189 


"CHOCOLATE OATMEAL COOKIES 


2cups sugar LC aa 1 stick margarine 


2 squares chocolate §=§ = = = 2 cups quick cooking oatmeal 
Pinch of salt) 9) ogame aan! % cup peanut butter 
“2 cup milk a fe ie they Oe WS 1 tsp. vanilla 


Melt chocolate and margarine. s Stiri in sugar, peanut butter, and milk. Bring 

to a boil and cook 1A minutes. Stiri in salt, vanilla and oatmeal. Pour on wax 

paper in cookie sizes. ey ne 

. Mrs. George Burton, Jr. 
(Peggy Fulton) 


“TOLL HOUSE COOKIES WITH OATMEAL 7 
Makes anes 100 cookies 


1% cups sifted flour rea Fe a 2 eggs, unbeaten 

TPESDL BOGAN EO UNG Ge sel tsp. hot water 
1 tsp. salt : 1 eup finely chopped nuts 
1 cup shortening 2 6-02. pkgs. chocolate bits 
34 cup brown sugar, parked! : ene 2 cups oatmeal 

% cup granulated sugar ta cant 1 tsp. vanilla 


Sift flour with soda and a Cee shortening a sugar till Hight and 
fluffy. Add eggs one at a time, beating after each addition, Add hot water 
and vanilla, sifted dry ingredients, nuts, chocolate bits and oatmeal. Mix 
- thoroughly. ‘Drop by half teaspoons on greased cookie sheet. (Nuts may be 
omitted. Raisins may be substituted for chocolate bits.) Bake at 375°F. for 8 
minutes. 

i paae Lee Lucker 


OATMEAL COOKIES 
One cups raw oatmeal ve aetna ue eggs | 
. 2 eups brown sugar SEE Eh 1 tsp. salt 
1 cup salad oil | Re 1 tsp. almond extract 


Mix oatmeal, sugar ven galad bil and refrigerate overnight. Beat eggs, and 
add salt and almond extract. Add to refrigerated mixture. Drop by teaspoon 
on lightly pee ee sheet. Cook 12 to 15 minutes in 850° oven. 
| | Mrs. Richard Ettinger 
_(Bootsie Burton) 





190 


"CHOCOLATE POLKADOT MERINGUETTES - 


3 ogy whites | Mi , (Rak nts ae % cup sugar bh ae 
4 tsp. cream of tartar iss FN 1 eup semi-sweet chocolate chips nay 
¥e tap. salt i Heavy brown paper — et ay 


Beat egg whites until foamy; ada cream of tartar and salt; heat anal stiff But 

not dry. Add sugar gradually, beating until very stiff. Fold 2/3 cup choco- 

late chips into mixture. Cover baking sheet with heavy brown paper 

(grocery bag will do). Drop by teaspoonful. Sprinkle with delat 4 ks : 

Bake at 275° for 40 minutes. Will keep for3days. it 
Mrs. G. Daniel Knight, In 
(Norma Pittard) ! 


DATE NUT BALLS | ss 
ee ee 


1 8-oz. pkg. chopped dates 3 1 cup chopped nuts | 
% cup sugar (cut down if ' 1 stick butter. ag 
dates are sugared) 22 cups Rice Krispies 


Cook dates, sugar and butter, hoe until butter is absorbed. Add He sed : 
cereal. Putin a large bowl and mix well. Form into small balls and ine with 
powdered sugar. | PS Gide 
Mrs. N. D. Bell’ ee ee 


ORANGE BALLS | : 
| Modes 6 dozen 
1 12-0z. pkg vanilla wafers ie 6-07. can y eonecnecatod frozen ait | 


1 1-lb. box powdered sugar | orange juice, thawed and gaan set 
1 stick margarine, softened 1 cup finely chopped nuts _ 


Crush vanilla wafers to fine CEabe. (A blender is good for this). Add the 

other ingredients. Mix well with hands and form into small balls. Store in 

ROH E ST ONOr | noe 
Mrs Ed Booth, Jr. 
ae Joyner) 


NESTLE’S. CONGO SQUARES oR age ae a 
| Makes 4’ dozen 


2°4 cups self-rising flour Yon Pa eee 1 ‘cup chibobed pecnHas Poh 
1-1/3 sticks margarine, melted —s_—> me 6-o0z. pkg. Nestle’s semi- Pe 
1 1-lb. box light brown leah sweet chocolate bits" ey 
3eggs ots ” o 44 Thsp. vanilla 


Cream together the margarine land ee sugar. Add the eggs (one at a fina) 

and beat well after each addition. Add the flour gradually. Then add the 

other ingredients (nuts, chocolate bits, and vanilla). Pour into a greased 12 

x 18 pan and bake at Soy for: 385 to 4 minutes. Let cool, wee cut into 

squares. eee | 
- oo - Olivia Tanner 








191 


_ MAPLE BARS 
ee oh Makes 16 2-inch squares 
1 tsp. maple flavoring 


42 cup sugar : Biel 
1/3 cup melted margarine 8% cup raisins or dates 
1 egg | | 4 cup chopped nuts 


‘2 cup self-rising flour 


Mix all ingredients together. Bake’ in greased and floured 8’x8” pan at 350° 
about 30 minutes. Cut wuile still oy warm. — 
Mrs. Don Conley 
( Chick ee 


STRAWBERRY Bhat 


‘1 cup sifted ail pubgoas flour ae Tbsp. lemon juice 
1 cup sugar | 


1% cup brown sugar ia eeu eT 

42 cup coarsely chopped walnuts _116-o0z. pkg. frozen sliced strawberries 

2 cup melted butter % pint wnipped cream 

2 egg whites 

~ Combine flour, bean! sugar, ee Aad pelea hutiey. Bake in shallow 
pan 20 minutes at 350°, stirring occasionally. Sprinkle 2/3 of crumbs in 
13"x9"x2" pan. Beat egg ‘whites, sugar, lemon juice until stiff. Stir in berries. 

Fold in whipped cream. Pour in pan over crumbs. Top with remaining 


crumbs. Freeze 6 hours. Cut in he 


Serves 8 


Mrs. Helen Owen 


‘SEVEN LAYER COOKIES 


1 stick butter, melted 1 6-oz. pkg. chocolate morsels 
- 1 cup graham cracker crumbs - 1% cups pecans, chopped 
1 eup flaked coconut — Rang 1 can condensed milk 

1 6-oz. pkg butterscotch morsels | 


Use 7” x 11” pans. Spread each ingredient as in the order listed. Bake 


for 30-35 minutes at 350°. Cool 3 to 4 hours. Cut and serve. 
ee Ann Moore 


BLUEBERRY SQUARES 


1% cups self-rising flour 


il cup Sriws sugar 
1 cup shortening, liquid | type 1% tsp. nutmeg 
2 eggs ; % tsp. cinnamon 
‘e ) 2 cups floured blueberries 


14 cup milk 

Cream sugar and eS a, Separate eggs. Beat whites and set aside. Mix 
yolks and milk into shortening mixture. Sift dry ingredients into batter. 
Fold in egg whites. Add berries. Bake in greased and floured 13x9 pan at 
375° for 35 minutes. Sprinkle with powdered sugar while hot. Cut into 


‘squares. This is also very good served plain with Cool Whip. 
Mrs. B. Thomas James 


(Retha Kermon) 


192 
LEMON BARS 
Crust 


% cup butter 1 cup plain flour, sifted 


% cup confectioners sugar ) 
Filling | 
2 Tbsp. lemon juice and | 
rind of lemon 


1 cup sugar : é 
4 tep. salt ! i, tsp. baking powder 
2 Tbsp. flour | 


Preheat oven to 350°. For crust mix butter, sugar and flour and bake in 
ungreased 9”x13” pan for 15 to 20 minutes. For filling mix eggs, sugar, salt, 
lemon juice, baking powder and flour. Beat well. Spread on hot crust. Bake 
for 30 minutes or until brown on top at 350°. Sprinkle with confectioners _ 


sugar. Better if refrigerated. | 


2 even! well beaten 


Mrs. George J. Armstrong, Jr. 
Atlanta, Ga. , 


DATE BARS 


1 stick butter 1 Thsp. baking powder 
1 cup sugar 4 tsp. salt 

3 eggs 1 pkg. chopped dates 

1 cup all-purpose flour | 1 cup chopped pecans 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs one at a time. Add flour, salt, and baking — 
powder gradually, until well mixed. Shake a small amount of flour over nuts: 
and over dates to keep separated and then add to mixture. Pour in shallow — 
baking tin and bake at 300° for 25 minutes. Cut in squares and shake in bag 


of powdered sugar. ay | 
Mrs. C. G. Riddle 


EASY CHOCOLATE CHERRY BARS 
1 pkg. fudge cake mix (Duncan Hines, etc.) 1 cup granulated sugar © | (Ae a 


1 21-oz. can cherry pie fillin | 5 Tbsp. margarine © 


1 tsp. almond extract Fs , 1/3 cup milk — eat: 
2 eggs, beaten 1 6-oz. pkg. chocolate chips. 


Combine fudge cake mix, cherry pie filling, almond extract and eggs in large 
bowl and mix by hand until well blended. Pour into a greased 15 x 10 cake 
pan. Bake 20-25 minutes at 350°. Frost with frosting made by boiling — 
granulated sugar, margarine and milk for 1 minute. Add chocolate chips. | 
When melted spread over top of bars. Cool and cutin small bars. 
UO eee Mrs Richard Cutler 
a (Lea Paulson) 





193 


PUMPKIN BARS 
2 cups flour OO Fe 1 tsp. salt 
2 cups sugar | Rare. We 1 tsp. soda 
Ztsp. baking powder ro 4 well beaten eggs 
2 tsp. cinnamon | oT eup Wesson oil 
% tsp. allspice . Heal 1 small can pumpkin 
4 tsp. cloves | an ! 1 cup nuts, chopped 
eee er Ost ii ge 
3 oz. cream cheese, softened ti 1 tsp. vanilla 
% stick of margarine, softened 1% cup powdered sugar 
1 Thsp. milk } PAA 


Combine eggs, sugar and oil in a large bowl. Add all dry ingredients and 
mix. Then add pumpkin and mix. Place in 2 9x13 cake pans, greased. 
Sprinkle chopped nuts on top. Bake at 350 degrees for 25 minutes. Frost 
while warm. Frosting: Cream softened cream cheese, margarine, milk, 
vanilla and powdered sugar. Frost while warm. When cool cut into bars. 
_ These freeze very well. | 

ast Mrs. Richard Cutler 


: (Lea Paulson) 
PEANUT BUTTER FINGERS 
1% cup butter fe ; Poe We tap, vanilla 
4% eup white sugar Comte ep flour 3: 
% cup brown sugar, firmly packed 1 cup quick cooking rolled oats 
1 egg, unbeaten : | | 1 cup chocolate chips 
1/3 cup peanut butter ; % cup sifted powdered sugar 
% tep. soda ee Wee % cup peanut butter 
Ytsp. salt _ | Pi 3 Tbsp. evaporated milk 


Cream together butter, white sugar and brown sugar. Blend in unbeaten 
egg, 1/3 cup peanut butter, soda, salt and vanilla. Stir in flour and quick 
cooking rolled oats. Spread in greased 9x13 pan and bake 20-25 minutes at 
350°. Sprinkle after baking | cup chocolate chips over top and wait 5 min- 
utes. Spread the chocolate evenly over top. Combine 4 cup sifted powdered 
sugar, 4 cup peanut butter, and 3 Tbsp. evaporated milk. Drizzle this peanut 
mixture over the top of the chocolate. Cool. Cutinto bars to serve. May freeze. 
| Mrs. Richard Cutler 





(Lea Paulson) 
UTTY FINGERS 
| Makes approximately 60 
2 cups of plain flour hae 4 Tbsp. of powdered sugar 
2 sticks of soft margarine % tsp. vanilla flavoring 
2 Tbsp. of water — NRL % tsp. salt | 


1 cup or more of pecans _ 


Cream powdered sugar, margarine, water and flavoring. Add salt, flour and 
nuts. Knead until smooth. Pick off and roll into tiny fingers. Bake 20 to 25 
minutes in 350° oven. Roll in powdered sugar. 
: | Mrs. Harold Winstead 
(Dottie Warren) 


194 


-CINNE AMON STICKS 


1 cup butter oh 3 Legg yolk — 
1 tsp. vanilla 


1 cup sugar ? 
2 cups all-purpose flour hoo Cy ae cup chpped nuts — 
2 tsp. cinnamon Lah | 
Cream together butter and sugar, add flour, cinnamon, egg Molle Sad ae 
Spread in pan (12x18). Pat firm. Brush top with egg white (pour off excess). 
Sprinkle with nuts. Bake in 350° oven 25-30 minutes. Cut into sticks 1” x oO . 
immediately after ent, from oven. (I use my shallow roasting Been 

ar erty: Harris me ee ee 


BUTTERSCOTCH BROWNIES Gs 


1 cup brown sugar _ ae 4 tsp. salt 
A tsp. soda 


1 tsp. vanilla Ages) 
1 egg, well beaten | 1 cup ewan nuts” 
i cup sifted enriched and flour 


Add sugar and vanilla to egg. Mix well. Sift fopelticl flour, salt ae code Stir 
into sugar mixture. Stir in nuts. Spread batter: in greased ae ore 350° a 


to 30 minutes. 
| | Mrs. Richard Sapo. 
( eee oe 


ae BROWNIES | ei 
: _ Makes 24 bars = 


1/3 cup margarine, melted 


1 cup sifted flour | 
% tsp. baking powder | 1 cup packed brown sugar — 

% tsp. baking soda . 1 egg, slightly beaten 

% tsp. salt el na 1 tsp. vanilla : " 
1 cup nuts | 44 6-oz. pkg. semi-sweet chocolate chips oe 


Sift together flour, baling howe soda and salt. Add nuts. Combine melted 
margarine and sugar, let cool, then add eggs and vanilla. To this gradually 
add flour mixture, mixing well. Spread in greased 9’x9’x <2" pay ae 
ae over top and bake at oO po on 25 minutes. es 
au | Mrs. Ben E. Moore, Hien ee 

(Sue Battle) Bee 


_ CHEWY BROWNIES . ae 
1 cup butter : hat 2 tsp: eiuilia a aie 
4 unsweetened squares baking chocolate 1 cup self-rising flour 
4 eggs, beaten aaa a pony 7 chopped nuts 
2 cups sugar atte rsa 
Melt chocolate anid Bite in paneepare enews from heat. Adda remaining ee 
ingredients; stir until well blended. Pour into 9”x13” baking pan, ponee od es 
minutes in 350° oven. pO and cut into squares. ey 

| Mrs. John H. High : 

ae Caroline Hunton) © 








195 


"CHOCOLATE PUDDIN G BROWNIES 


1 pkg. chocolate pudding ie i : " we 1 pkg. chocolate bits 
1 pkg chocolate cake aeecean ey 


Cook chocolate ‘daddine: ‘Add ae mix and chocolate bits. Makes large pan 


brownies. Ice with poets | mix, 
| i Mrs. H. H. Chambdless 
(Patsy Parker) | 


GRAHAM M CRACKER BROWNIES 


Makes 2 dozen medium sized brownies 


2 cups graham ater prueba y | 1 14-02. can Eagle Brand 
1 6-0z. pkg. Nestle’s semi- : _ sweetened condensed milk | 


sweet chocolate chips _ | | 1 cup nuts it desired) 


Mix all ingredients begets and hakei in Weaaed square pan at 350° for 20-25 
minutes. These are very quick and easy to fix and all chocolate lovers 
especially enjoy them. 

| | Mrs. James Elliot 
_ (Ginger Groovey) 


IOWA BROWNIES 
ae Veal Makes 2 dozen or more brownies 
i cup oleo margarine ; 4 eggs | 
1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 
1 16-0z. can chocolate syrup) 1 cup nuts 


Cream oleo and sugar. Beat in syrup. Beat in eggs one at a time. Add flour. 
Gradually fold in nuts. Pour into large rectangular pan (greased and 
ice Bake 25 minutes at 350°. 


Icing 
4% cup cleo 1/3 cup evaporated milk 
1% cup ‘aya Poet ionera sugar % cup chocolate chips 


Blend together oleo, confectioners sugar, evaporated milk. Boil one min- 
ute. Stir 1 in chocolate sets 
Mrs. James Elliot 
(Ginger Groovey) 
CHEWIES 
| Makes 2 dozen 
2 sticks margarine 1 box light brown sugar 
1% cups all-purpose flour | 1 6-oz. pkg. chocolate chips 
1% eup self-rising flour . 1 cup nuts 
2 eggs bins 
Melt margarine in rectangular pan. Pour over brown sugar and mix 
together. Add other ingredients. Pour back into pan. Bake at 350° 30-35 
minutes. Can be frozen. 
x Mrs. Raymond Levy 
(Sandy Nalley) 


196 


‘DEM! CHEESE CAKE MELBA | Sy OU Glee 
| A, BerDes 3 
2 8-oz. pkgs. cream cheese, softened _ 416 tsp. of Vania Pe ar a a OS wi Hes 
Yq Cup of sugar AY Anna 3 eggs, room temperature ; eat tate 


Blend together cream cheese, sugar and vanilla. Beat in eggs. Line muffin oy 
pans with cup cake papers. Place vanilla wafers in bottom. Fill % full with Mi 
cheese mixture. Bake at 350° for 18 minutes or until firm. Place cherry pie — 
filling (canned) on top of each hot cheese cake. Hehe Will a up : ; 
to 8 days. a 

Mrs. conn Thorp — 

(Cynthia Mahler) 


, MINIATURE CHEESE CAKES ae 
i Serves 12. 


34 cup graham crackers % ts. hn ee 

‘a Ib. butter  % Vb. cream cheese 

2 Thsp. sugar | 1 tsp. strawberry preserves or . , 
1 egg , 1 tsp. pineapple ice cream topping — 

14 cup sugar on top of each cheese cake i pede 


Use paper Hae in muffin tins. Mix Dreey cea eaa: utter Sai sugar. Put ; 
1 Tbsp. of mixture in each liner. Beat cream cheese well. Add sugar, vanilla | 
and egg. Blend well. Add 1 Tbsp. of this mixture to each cup. Put in pre- | 
heated oven at 375° for 10 minutes. Cool on wire rack. Use | tsp. straw- _ 
berry preserves or 1 tsp. pineapple ice cream topping on top of ee Pee ip 
cake. These miniature cheese cakes freeze very well. Nasa | 

Mrs. Tom Matthews 

(Billie Jo voy ih 


GINGER SUGAR shee aa 


Makes 2 dozen cupeakes 
Favorite cake mix | 84 cup sugar ae 
2 tsp. lemon peel, chopped 0h 2, tsp. ground ginger 


% cup melted butter 


Make cupcakes adding lemon on to havice While hoe a ne of ci peaven a 

into melted butter and then into the mixture of ginger and sugar. — 

Variations: Make into miniature cupcakes. Cinnamon Puffs: Omit © 

lemon peel from cake mix and make cupcakes. Dip tops into melted batter Ne 

and then into mixture of “ ae cinnamon and *% cup sugar. be 

| | oe Mrs. G. Daniel Knight, dr. . 
_ (Norma Pittara). 


1CB CREAM MUFFINS ay : 

, He DIAR Makes 8 or 9 muffins 

1 cup melted vanilla ice cream | ne 1 cup sifted self-rising flour : vA 
(do not use ice milk) | hay i 


Mix the ice cream and flour welll Fill 1 well Se muffin tins % ful Bake in | 
preheated 375° oven for 15 minutes | | hy 
| - Mrs. Mac eee a 
Aen Healey Morgan) 


197 





SELF-FILLED CHOCOLATE CUPCAKES 


ra enone Makes 3 dozen cupcakes 
1 2- layer size box chocolate | a ae 


cake mix. uth Dash of salt 
1 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese, softened 1 6-0z. pkg. (1 cup) 
1/3 cup sugar hal ena _ semi-sweet chocolate hits 


Mix cake according ts voke. daesions: Fill paper baking cups ‘2 to 2/3 full 
and place in muffin pan. Cream cheese with sugar. Beatin egg and salt. Stir 
in chocolate bits. Drop one rounded teaspoon full of eee mixture into avi 
cupcake. Bake according to pkg. directions. 

i Olivia Tanner 


FRESH APPLE CAKE 


1% stick margarine p bet Lup raisins 


2 eggs COE ad i 0) A CRED EN BLAS | 
2 cups self-rising flour 1 cup coconut Hn 
1 tsp. cinnamon : a aR 2 cups chopped raw apples. 


2 cups sugar 


Mix together and bake ina greased and floured tube pan at 350° for one hour 


and 10 minutes. 
Mrs. W. M. Marshburn 
aire ee 


APPLE NUT CAKE 


ae 

3 eggs aah ‘3 cups plain flour 
Zcups sugar 1 tsp. salt 
i%cups WessonoilL ea 1 tsp. soda 
J cup pecans i cy NP CORI 2 tsp. vanilla 
4or5 pula diced “ | 

; 3 | Glaze 
1 Lae butter a)! 0 02! ee | 4 eup canned milk 
1 cup light brown sugar ey i 1 tsp. vanilla 


For cake: Beat with mixer ithe eggs, sugar and Wesson oil. By hand add 
pecans and apples. Sift together and add flour, salt and soda. Add 2 tsp. 
vanilla. Do not preheat oven. Pour in 3 9” pans and cook at 325° for 45 
minutes, or pour in tube pan and cook at 345° for 1% hours. Glaze: Melt 
butter, add brown sugar and canned milk. Bring to a boil and remove from 
heat. Add vanilla and glaze cake. | 


Mrs. Robert Tuttle 
(Beth Keel) 


198 


APRICOT NECTAR CAKE 


1 box Duncan Hines Lemon Supreme : ah, cup Delmonte apricot nectar 
cake mix | - % cup Wesson oil 
4 eggs DRO ios 4 ‘tsp. lemon extract 


Mix all together. Beat at aie Speed for 4 minutes, then a heel ee for : 
2 minutes. Put in greased and floured tube pan. Bake at 325° for 55 minutes. 

When done, while still in pan, stick deep holes with ice pick. Pour glaze over 
cake. Glaze: Mix 1% cups confectioners sugar with juice of 2 lemons. 


Mrs. Henry eee | 


CARROT CAKEIL 


Serves 16 


2 cups self-rising flour 1% tsp. cinnamon 

2 cups sugar (or substitute) 14 cup Wesson oil 

1 tsp. soda 3 eggs | 

1 tsp. salt al cups finely shredded carrots 


Mix flour, sugar, soda, salt and cinnamon. Add Wesson oil, eggs and carrots, 
beat well. Pour into two 9” pans or 3 8” pans. Bake at one for 40- an 
minutes. Cool. | , 


icing 
1 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese “1 eup chopnad nuts (pecans, 
34 stick margarine | walnuts) 


1 box sifted confectioner’s sugar con heed coconut (optional) hy 
2% tsp. vanilla : ae ee 


Mix cream cheese, margarine, sugar and vanilla. Add Heed | and coconut. 
Decorate with cherries and pecan halves. ean 
: | Mrs. Roger Bone a 


: ae I 


2 cups plain flour Te ee : 1 tsp. salt 

2 cups sugar 7 Eapeinieee | 14 cups on. 

2 tsp. cinnamon Ce HN age 4 eggs : : | Ee We 

2tsp.bakingsoda = =  @ aa jars strained baby ¢ carrots ie Nee 
| | Icing : | cae ‘ 

1 box confectioners pen he a a 2 sh OZ. cream cheese © 

1 stick margarine As ee a ab cup chopped nuts 


Mix all cake ingredients chee nad bake i in 3 cake pans at 325° ae 30. 
minutes, Cream sugar, bape and cream cheese with mixer. a ae y 
Spread on cake. Nae ee a ee 
| ee Mrs. Stephen L. Wright 
¥ ey ee : 








199 


_ BAKED CHEESE CAKE 
: te ee OEE Makes 6 to 8 servings 
2 8-oz. pkgs. Philadelphia —s—> %4 cup sugar 
cream cheese Oe oo oe D top. vanilla 
3 eggs : | ) 


Beat above well. Pour into graham cracker crust. Bake 25 minutes at 350°. 
Remove from oven and let stand 20-30 minutes. Take % pint sour cream, 4 
cup sugar, | tsp. vanilla and beat. Spread on top of cake. Bake 10 minutes at 
475°. Refrigerate several hours or overnight before serving. Easy and good! 
| Mrs. Leon A. Dunn, Jr. 
(Pattie McCay) 


LINDY’S FAMOUS CHEESECAKE 


1 cup sifted all-purpose flour EA SARE ga tsp. vanilla 
1% cup sugar : 1 egg yolk 
1 tsp. grated lemon peel hig  % cup soft butter 


Lindy’s in New York serves this most delicious, rich cheesecake. In medium 
bow! combine flour, sugar, grated lemon peel and vanilla. Make a wellin the 
center and add the egg yolk and soft butter. Formintoa ball. Wrap in waxed 
paper and refrigerate one hour. Preheat oven to 400°. Grease the bottom and 
sides of a 9” spring form pan (I prefer a tube pan as this cake is huge!) 
Remove the side from the pan. Koll 1/3 dough on bottom of pan. Trim edge. 
Bake 8-10 minutes till golden. Roll remaining dough in strips, Put pan 


together. Fit dough strips to side of pan, joining ends to line inside com- 
~ pletely. Only let dough cover % of sides. Refrigerate till ready to use. Preheat 


_ oven 500°. Make filling. 


Filling 
5 8-oz. pkgs. cream cheese % tsp. vanilla 
1% cup sugar PAL iN OD ae |B eggs 
3 Tbsp. flour | 2 extra egg yolks 
1% tsp. grated lemon peel | % cup heavy cream 


1% tsp. grated orange peel 


In large mixing bowl combine cream cheese, sugar, flour, grated lemon peel, 
grated orange peel, and vanilla. Beat at high speed to blend. Beat in 5 eggs 
and 2 egg yolks, one at a time. Add heavy cream, beating just till well com- 
bined. Pour mix into pan. Bake 10 minutes. Reduce temperature to 250° and 
bake one hour longer. Cool and top with glaze. Refrigerate 3 hours or over- 
night. Peete a | 
a Red Cherry Glaze 

_ Drain 1 can sour red cherries. Save ¥2 cup liquid. In small pan combine 2 cup 
sugar and 1 tablespoon cornstarch. Add cherry liquid stirring till smooth. 
Bring to boil, stirring on medium heat. Boil 1 minute. The mix will be thick 
and translucent. Remove from heat and cool slightly. Add 1 tablespoon 
lemon juice and 2 drops red food coloring. Cool thoroughly before spooning 
over cake. sary 

Mrs. Jack Brake 

(Kathryn Jones) 


200 


CHOCOLATE. CHIP CAKE 


1 stick margarine 1 tsp. baking soda 

1 cup sugar aE Cap Salt 

2 eggs 2 Tbsp. milk 

1 cup sour cream 1 Thsp. vanilla | | 
2 cups flour 1 6-oz. pkg. semi-sweet 
2 tsp. baking powder - chocolate pieces 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs, sour cream, milk, and vanitld, Then mix | 
in dry ingredients. Stir in chocolate pieces. Pour into greased Bundt or tube | 
pan. Bake 40-45 minutes at 350°. Let cool 10 minutes before removing from 
pan, : 
Mrs. Lyle Crumpler 
(Leslie Cloyes) 


CHOCOLATE MINT ICE BOX CAKE 


Serves 6 


1 lb. marshmallows 1 pint whipping cream 
1 cup milk Peppermint flavoring 
1 box Famous chocolate wafers Green food coloring 


Line dish with chocolate wafers. In double boiler heat milk and add marsh- 
mallows and melt. Let cool. Whip cream and fold into marshmallow mix- | 
ture. Add 2 or 3 drops of peppermint flavoring and food ae Pour mix- 
ture over wafers and freeze. | 


Jane VOU TnITaE (et | 
CHOCOLATE CAKE AND CHOCOLATE ICING 


2 cups sugar 2 cups all-purpose flour 

lk cup cocoa 1 tsp. baking soda 

14% cups buttermilk | Ye tsp. salt ee 

% cup butter or margarine | 1 tsp. vanilla extract fete 
2 large eggs | | | 1 pint whipping cream 


Mix 1 cup sugar, 4% cup cocoa, and % cup buttermilk. Beat ee set aa : 

Cream butter and 1 cup sugar. Beat in eggs one at a time. Add the sifted dry 
ingredients alternately with 1 cup buttermilk. Add vanilla extract and fold 
in the ingredients that were set aside. Pour into two 9-inch cake pans and 
bake in preheated 375° oven for 30-35 minutes. Cool. Split layers and fill with 
cream that has been Reale until stiff ooh form. HO: this with chocolate 
icing. | | 7 | 


Chocolate Icing 


1 cup butter or margarine | ne a. a A tap, ‘salt : re 
1 pint Half ’n Half BOS Oe semi-sweet chocolate 
2% cups granulated sugar we a panes ft tsp. vanilla extract 


Mix butter, Half ’N Half, sugar, aa salt. Put these merle in f aeuuls 
boiler stirring until sugar is dissolved. Cook gently until it makes a soft ball 
when dropped in cold water. Pour mixture over broken chocolate. Add 
vanilla and beat until thick ie 1 A tiga ree 


Mrs. J. Michael Evans 
as Daniel) 


201 


CHOCOLATE CAKE 


1 stick butter ek bl 1 can Hersey’s chocolate syrup 
1 cup sugar 1 cup self-rising flour 
4 eggs | 1 tsp. vanilla 


Mix the above ingredients and pour into a 9x13x2 greased pan. Bake at 350° 
until toothpick can be inserted in center and comes out clean. 
| ; A Icing 
1 stick butter vee i 1/8 cup evaporated milk 
1 cup sugar A Aha HG 


Slowly boil ingredients two minutes. Remove from heat and add % cup 
chocolate chips. Beat about 3 or 4 minutes or until mixtureis hard enough to 
spread on cake. eae es mee iM u : 
: Mrs. Lanny M. Roof 


| (Sally Herbert) 
CHOCOLATE PASTRY CAKE 
2 4-oz. pkgs. sweet | Wy tsp. cinnamon 
cooking chocolate 2 tsp. vanilla 
Yweupsugar | : I 10-oz. pkg. pie crust mix 
. % cup water | 1% large cartons Cool Whip 


Shave 3 squares of the chocolate and put in ice box for garnish. Break 
remaining chocolate into pieces and combine with water and cinnamon in 
small pan. Cook and stir until smooth. Remove from heat, add vanilla and 
cool to room temperature. Put pie crust mixture in bowl and add sugar and % 
cup of the chocolate sauce. Blend well. Divide into 4 parts. Press each part 
over the bottom of inverted 8 or 9 inch layer cake pans to within 4 inch of 
edge. Bake at 400° about 7 minutes (until almost firm). Cool 5 minutes. 
Loosen with spatula. Place on racks to cool. Fold remaining chocolate sauce 
Into Cool whip. Spread heavily between layers and top. Garnish with 
chocclate shavings. Chill overnight. (May be frozen. Wrap air tight after it 
freezes and thaw in ice box). 

| India Sprye 


“FRESH” COCONUT CAKE 


2 8-oz. cartons sour cream 2 cups sugar 
(Superbrand) 1 tsp. vanilla 
2 8-oz. pkg. frozen, flaked 
coconut | | 


This cake is easy to make and tastes like real fresh coconut. Mix and store 
sour cream, coconut, sugar and vanilla in refrigerator overnight. Bake 1 
yellow Duncan Hines cake mix in 2 layer pans. Slice each layer once. Spread 
mixture between the 4 layers and ice completely. Put in Tupperware con- 
tainer and store in refrigerator 4 days until moist. (The longer it stays, the 
more moist it tastes). 

Mrs. P. B. Dickson 

Winston-Salem, N. C. 


202 


FRUIT COCKTAIL CAKE 


2 cups plain flour 2 eggs | | 
2 tsp. baking soda | - 116-o0z. can fruit cocktail 
1-1/3 cup sugar } % cup brown sugar 


Place aside brown sugar. Preheat oven 350°. Beat flour, soda, sugar, eggs, 
and fruit cocktail for 2 minutes with electric mixer. Pour into a 18° x9 x2" 
pan and sprinkle brown sugar on top. Bake 40 minutes. Be 


Topping 
'% cup evaporated milk 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 stick margarine 1% cup chopped pecans 
% cup sugar 1 cup coconut © 


Put milk, margarine, and sugar in a saucepan and bring to boil for 2 
minutes. Remove from heat and beat for 1 minute with spoon. Add vanilla, | 
pecans, and coconut. Pour over cake while hot. . 


Mrs. R. M. Chandler 


COFFEE CAKE Pe Atala a 
Makes 1 tube cake © 
2 sticks margarine or butter 1 cup sour cream : , . 
1 cup sugar 3 eggs 
3 cups flour % tsp. baking soda 
3 Tbsp. baking powder %4 tsp. salt — 
Topping 

42 cup sugar 2 tsp. cinnamon 
% cup chopped nuts 1 tsp. vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs one at a time. Sift flour, salt, baking 
powder and baking soda. Add alternately to butter mix with sour cream. Put. 
half batter in greased tube pan. Mix sugar, chopped nuts, cinnamon and 
vanilla for topping. Sprinkle half of topping and fill pan with balance of 
batter. Sprinkle remaining topping. Bake at 350° for one hour. Can be 
frozen. Delicious when thawed. Cut slices and toast lightly in oven. © 


Mrs. Raymond Levy 
(Sandy Nalley) nee 


PINEAPPLE COFFEE CAKE 


1 can crushed pineapple !  % eup brown sugar : : 
2 cups biscuit mix with 4 tsp. cinnamon and 
1 egg dash of nutmeg 


4 cup sugar | | | 
Drain pineapple; mix 2/3 cup pineapple juice with biscuit mix, egg and 
sugar. Pour into 8” or 9” square pan, greased. Cover evenly with crushed 
pineapple. Sprinkle with brown sugar mixture. Bake at 400° for 25 or ‘ 
30 minutes. Bete ne a ae ee hee ee 
Naomi Jarman 


203 


DANISH KAFFEKAGE (COFFEE CAKE) 
ey | Ra tie He) Serves 6-8 
2 cups Bisquick vedi! le 

% cup milk epee 2 Thsp. soft butter or margarine 
“% cup sugar ; i 


Mix the above ingredients together and put in a greased 9” round cake 
pan. ‘ 


Topping 
%! cup brown sugar Finer a cae % tsp. cinnamon 
1% cup raisins 2/3 cup cherry preserves 


Mix sugar, raisins and cinnamon; spread over top of mixture in cake pan. 
Spread cherry Preserves over the top. Bake 375°-400° 20 to 25 minutes. 


| Frosting 
1 cup powdered sugar - 1% Tbsp. cream or milk 
1% tsp. vanilla 


Spread this after it is well mixed over the top. Serve while warm 
with piping hot coffee. Good morning bridge idea. Can be frozen or 
made ahead and warmed in oven (tin foil on top) prior to serving. 
: Neen aeeue Mrs. Richard E. Cutler 
(Lea Paulson) 


SOUR CREAM COFFEE CAKE 


Serves 24 
1 stick butter 2 cups sifted plain flour 
1 cup sugar 1 tsp. baking soda 
2 eggs Be ih a Dace 2 level tsp, baking powder 
1% tsp. vanilla | 4 tsp. salt 
2 tsp. fresh lemon juice 1 8-oz. carton sour cream 


Cream together butter and sugar. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well. 
Add vanilla and lemon juice. Sift together flour, soda, baking powder 
_and salt. Add dry ingredients sifted together alternately with sour cream, 
beginning and ending with dry ingredients. (1 cup undiluted evaporated 
milk may be substituted for sour cream.) Butter pan generously. Sprinkle 
topping lightly in bottom of pan. Layer batter with topping, ending with 
topping. Cut through, over and under, for marbled effect, several times. 
Bake at 350° for approximately 25 minutes for loaves and 55 minutes 
for bundt cake. Cool in pans about 15 minutes before removing. Mixture 
fills 3 medium foil loaf pans or one average bundt pan. Freezes well. Make 
ahead, wrap and reheat in foil before using, if desired. 


| Topping 
34 cup sugar 34 cup chopped nuts 
3 tsp. cinnamon 


Mix together and layer with coffee cake mixture. 
| Mrs. N. B. Dozier 
(Robbie Walker) 


204 


SPICY COFFEE CAKE } a as 
1 large, 1 0-inch cake 


2 cups water | : ea Sane 1 Ne Sula allspice 

4 Tbsp. instant coffee ) Ye Ib. butter or id at ha 
1 15-oz. pkg. dark seedless raisins . softened 

4 cups self-rising flour 2 cups sugar 

1 tsp. ground cloves 4 eggs 

1 tsp. ground cinnamon: 214-3 cups chopped Benen 


Bring water to a boil, add coffee and raisins. Cook Leave Deca OnuIty. | 
until raisins have absorbed all liquid. Remove from heat and cool. Heat — 
oven to 250°. Lightly grease a 10-inch tube pan with unsalted shortening. 
Sift flour with cloves, cinnamon and allspice. Place butter and sugar in 
a large bowl and beat on medium until well blended. Add eggs one ata © 
time and beat well after each. Reduce speed to low; gradually add sifted | 
dry ingredients to butter mixture. Stir pecans and cooled raisins. into 
cake batter. Bake 2 hours 35-40 minutes or until cake tester comes out 
clean. Cool 15 minutes before removing from pan. Best made a day 
ahead. It can be wrapped in foil and stored in refrigerator several weeks. 

Mrs. Ronald R. Mucci — 

(Gaye Pitt) — 


Ly pull ecine ace CREAM CHEESE COFFEE CAKE 


2 cups Bisquick . 1/3 cup milk 
4 oz. cream cheese 1p cup raspberry preserves 
% stick butter 


Blend first 4 TN, aye a soft dough. Pat out to an 8” x 12” rec- 
tangle on a cookie sheet. On each side cut in 24” every inch. Spread 
preserves down the center. Fold sides over center, aa and seal 
in preserves. Bake at 400° 10-15 minutes or until browned. aR 


Glaze 
l cup powdered sugar 2 tsp. vanilla 
2 Tbsp. milk } | ee a at 
Mix and drizzle over warm cake. sy Veet 
Mrs. Bill VonZandt 
_ Cranberry, Ps a 


COLD OVEN CAKE. 


1 cup butter 4 eS ane ay cup milk — 

% cup Crisco Maa eae Hae yup vanilla _ 

3 cups sugar ci 1 tsp. lemon 

5 eggs | i BET UE EI 4 cups plain flour, sifted 3 times 


Cream first 3 eoieahe thveriee! Beat egg and add remaining ingre- 
dients. Put in cold oven ina mein Pee Bake 1% hours at 825°) 73. 
fine _ Mrs. George G. idan a 
Len ened 





205 


_ CRANBERRY CAKE 


Vy cup sugar 1 heaping Tbsp. real butter 
i cup flour | ‘Nh % cup milk 
1%’%tsp. baking powder = 1 cup whole, raw cranberries 


Mix sugar, flour and baking powder, Cut in butter and milk. Add cran- 
berries. Pour into a greased loaf pan and bake 30 minutes at 375°. 
- Butter Sauce 

1 cup sugar | wih aR 1 tsp. vanilla 
4b. butter. ae : "OY tsp. salt 
‘2 cup whipping cream, not whipped 
Bring to a slow boil and boil until clear. Serve warm. 

: ve a Mrs. Hank Hastings 


‘REFRIGERATOR FRUIT CAKE 


4 cups chopped pecans 2 10-oz. bags miniature 
1 cup milk | le marshmallows 
1 13%-o0z. box Grahamcracker =—_—«&1._ Ih. box raisins 
crumbs | 2 8-oz. boxes chopped dates 


Mix nuts, Graham cracker crumbs, % of the miniature marshmallows, 
raisins and dates. Put other half of marshmallows and 1 cup milk into 
top of double boiler and cook until melted. Pour over above mixture and 
stir until all pieces are moist. Press into cake tin and chill overnight 
before slicing. 

pea Mrs. John A. Hammond 
(Anna Spruill) 


GERMAN CHOCOLATE POUND CAKE 


1 bar German sweet chocolate 1 tsp. imitation butter flavoring 
(comes in one big bar only) ; 1 cup buttermilk 

2 cups sugar 3 cups sifted all-purpose flour 

1 cup shortening i tsp. soda 

4 eggs | 1 tsp. salt 


2 tsp. vanilla 


Partially melt chocolate over hot water. Remove and stir rapidly until 
melted. Cool. Cream sugar and shortening. Add eggs, flavorings, and 
buttermilk. Sift together flour, soda and salt. Add to shortening. Mix well. 
Blend in chocolate. Pour into well greased and floured 9” tube pan. Bake 
at 300°. Insert knife to test if done after 1 hour 20 minutes. Remove from 
pan while still hot, wrap in waxed paper, and place under a tightly fitting 
cover until thoroughly cooled. 

| Mrs. M. Alexander Biggs 
(Barbara Bone) 


206 


‘GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 
1 stick butter . 1 9-oz. can crushed PIneAD Es 
2 cups sugar : | drained 
5 eggs 1 eup coconut (optional) | : 
1 lb. crushed graham crackers” Pineapple juice plus water to make 
2 tsp. baking powder ) 84 cup 
1 cup chopped nuts | | 34 cup sugar 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and beat. Add ate ang nelne ‘ 
powder. Mix well. Add pineapple and nuts; pour into greased tube pan. 
Bake at 325° for about 1’ hours. Invert pan and remove cake at once. 
Combine pineapple juice and sugar. Cook until syrupy. Spoon over hot 
cake gradually. : 

Mrs. Anna Mae Joyner 


HARVEY WALLBANGER CAKE 


1 regular pkg. orange cake mix % cup Galliano — 

1 3%4-oz. pkg. instant vanilla 2 Tbsp. vodka — | 
pudding 1 cup sifted powdered sugar 

4 eggs 1 Thsp. orange juice 

1% cup cooking oil 1 Tbsp. Galliano — 

% cup orange juice - | tsp. vodka | 


In large bowl, combine cake mix and pudding mix. Add eggs, oil and 
l cup orange juice, 2 cup Galliano and 2 Tbsp. vodka. Beat on low speed 
for 4 minute. Beat on medium speed 5 minutes, scraping bow! frequent- 
ly. Pour into greased and floured 10” fluted tube pan; bake in 350° oven 
for 45 minutes. Cool in pan 10 minutes. Remove and pour on glaze while 
cake is warm. Very good if you like “Harvey Wallbangers”. _ : 
Mrs. Joe Warner, Jr. 


(Lynda Faulkner) 
ITALIAN CREAM CAKE 
1 stick margarine 3 1 cup buttermilk 
‘a cup vegetable aruda 1 tsp. vanilla 
2 cups sugar 14 cups fine coconut 
5 egg yolks — % eup chopped nuts | 
2 cups self-rising flour, sifted nS ese whites, minty beaten 


1 tsp. soda. 


Cream margarine and shomtenmiay Add sugar and beat a cee Add 
egg yolks and beat well. Combine flour and soda and add to cream mix- 
ture, alternating with buttermilk. Stir in vanilla, coconut and chopped 
nuts, Fold in egg whites. Pour into 3 9” cake pans, using waxed paper in 
bottoms and bake at 350° for about 25-30 minutes. | 


| igi! 
1 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese Ce i pha tsp. vanilla 
1 stick margarine eon one in cay chopped nuts 


i box powdered sugar, sifted 


‘Mix cream cheese and margarine; ‘hdd sugar and mix well. ie vanilla | 
and beat until smooth. Spread © on cared cake and sprinkle with nuts. 
nc ee McIntyre | 


207 


_ LEMON CAKE 


1 box Duncan Hines Yellow Cake 4 whole eggs 


Mix | | 2/3 cup water 
1 box Jello Instant Lemon 1 tsp. lemon flavoring 


Pudding Mix : % tsp. salt 
1% sticks margarine NUE ! 


Combine all ingredients into large mixing bowl and beat until well 
blended; batter will look like creamed butter and will be thick. Spoon (as 
it will not pour) into greased and floured tube pan; place in 350° oven 
and cook one hour or until cake springs back at light touch. Take cake 
out of oven and while still warm, add topping. 


Topping for Lemon Cake 


1/3 cup lemon juice | 1 cup sugar — 


I use Real Lemon reconstituted lemon juice instead of juice from a real 
lemon. Combine lemon juice and sugar in a small sauce pan and boil for 
one minute; spoon over cake, being sure to get the sides and around the 
tube. Let cake cool, then remove from pan. This is a favorite at my house 
and the children love birthday cakes changing the lemon to vanilla flavor- 
ing and using a butter cream icing found on powdered sugar box. 
| : Mrs. Fred Lee, -Jr. 
(Carol Jones) 


LEMON CHEESE CAKE 


Yellow Cake Mix 
Bake cake in 3 layers. Cool. Slice into 6 very thin layers. Ice between 
each layer and on top with lemon cheese filling. 


Lemon Cheese Filling 


2 cups sugar % cup butter or margarine, melted 
3 lemons, squeezed plus grated 4 egg yolks 
rind of one | 3 Tbsp. cornstarch 


Mix sugar and cornstarch. Beat egg yolks and lemon juice and rind 
together. Mix both with melted butter and cook over low heat, stirring 
constantly, until thick, about 10 or 15 minutes. Cool. Spread between 
and on top of layers. 


Mrs. H. F. Barksdale 
Atlanta, Georgia 





208 


LOUISE CAKES 
1 cup flour -¥% cup butter 
3 Tbsp. brown sugar Ma 


Mix thoroughly flour, sugar and butter. oo in a 10” eee pan. Bake 
10 minutes in a 850° oven. Remove from oven. 


Icing 
2 eggs, beaten : 1% cups brown sugar 
% tsp. baking powder % tsp. salt 
% cup white raisins % cup chopped pecans 


Mix beaten eggs, baking powder and raisins. Add sugar, salt and pecans. 
Spread over warm baked mixture. Bake 20 minutes in 350° oven. | 


Mrs. Roy M. Phipps 
(Eugenia Hardy) 


MANDARIN REFRIGERATOR CAKE oe 
Serves 10-12 


2 11-o0z. cans mandarin oranges 2 cups heavy cream, whipped 

1 6-oz. pkg. lemon flavored gelatin (if you’re counting calories, 

1 cup cold water | substitute Dream Whip or Cool | 
18 to 20 plain lady fingers, split Whip for the cream) 


Drain juice from mandarin oranges; if necessary, add enough water to 
make 2 cups and bring to a boil. Dissolve gelatin in hot liquid; add cold _ 
water, and cool until mixture is syrupy. Line bottom and sides of a 9” 
spring form pan with lady fingers. Fold syrupy mixture into whipped 
cream with mandarin oranges, reserving a sufficient number of the 
orange segments for garnishing. Pour into lined cake pan, and chill for is 
several hours, or overnight. ace 


_ Mrs. Herbert E. Gurganus 


MISSISSIPPI MUD CAKE 


2 cups water | | 2 cups flour 

4 squares unsweetened chocolate 1 tsp. baking soda 
34 stick butter 2 eggs 

2 cups sugar ! 2 iP. vanilla 

1 tsp. salt Ped No | 


Place water and chocolate i in sauce pan on HGdiaey heat; bine La a boil o 


and simmer one minute. Remove from stove. Grease 9” x 13” baking pan. ~ 


Preheat oven to 250°. Mix salt, flour and soda; add to cooled mixture. — 
Blend well. Add 2 eggs and mix a Add 1 or 2 tsp. vanilla. ae : 
1 hour 10 minutes. | 

| Mrs. Ruth Ritner — 


209 


_ MINCEMEAT CAKE 
% cup shortening Mae Shanice at 3 cups flour 
1 cup sugar , ean TSp. nutmeg 
1 egg SO RA acti 2 tap. cinnamon 
2 cups mincemeat goa 1 cup coconut 
1 cup applesauce 1 cup raisins 
% tsp. soda baa 1 cup chopped nuts 


2 tsp. baking powder 


Cream shortening, sugar and egg. Add applesauce; mix mincemeat, 
coconut, raisins and nuts. Mix dry ingredients and sift. Alternately 
add mincemeat mixture and sifted dry ingredients until all are blended. 
Bake in aluminum foil lined (bottom) tube pan for one hour and 10 min- 
utes at 350°. : | 
Mrs. Charles M, Goodrich 


OATMEAL SHEET CAKE 


1% cups boiling water 1-1/3 cup flour 

1 cup oatmeal (Quaker Quick Oats) —_—«i1s tsp. soda 

% cup dark raisins % tsp. cinnamon 

% cup brown sugar  W’tsp. nutmeg 

1 cup white sugar %tsp.salt 

2 eggs . 1 stick margarine (*4 lb.) 


Pour boiling water over oatmeal and add raisins, then set aside to cool. 
Cream together margarine, brown sugar, and white sugar. Add 2 eggs, 
one at a time. Beat after adding each egg. Then whip oatmeal mixture 
into cream mixture. Add flour, soda, cinnamon, nutmeg and salt, Mix 
well. Bake in greased 9” x 12” pan for 25 minutes at 350°. Remove from 


oven and let cool. 


Glaze 
% cup brown sugar | , | A tsp. vanilla | 
4 Thsp. water Ronen % cup chopped nuts 


1 Tbsp. margarine 

In small sauce pan add brown sugar, water, margarine and vanilla 
flavoring. Stir over medium heat until it comes to a boil. Then reduce 
heat to low and cook five minutes. Remove from heat. Pour nuts over cake 
and then pour glaze over cake. 
| Mrs. Ida J. Strickland 





210 


ORANGE CHIFFON CAKE ae 
| | Large cake — 

214 cups sifted cake flour - $ tsp. baking powder | : 
1% cups sugar 1 tsp. salt 


Measure and sift together flour, sugar, baking powder and Salt into a 
mixing bowl. Make a well in mixture and add in order: 
1% cup Wesson Oil Grated rind of 2 oranges (about 
5 unbeaten egg yolks | 2 Tbhsp.) | 
Juice of 2 medium-sized oranges 

plus water to make % cup 


Beat mixture with spoon until smooth. — 
1 cup egg whites (7 or 8) 1% tsp. cream of tartar 


Measure egg whites and tartar into large mixing bowl; whip until whites 
form very stiff peaks. They should be much stiffer than for angel food 
meringue. DO NOT UNDERBEAT. Pour egg yolk mixture gradually 
over whipped egg whites, gently folding with rubber scraper just until — 
blended. DO NOT STIR. Pour into ungreased pan immediately. Bake in > 
10” tube pan, 4” deep at 325° 65 to 70 minutes, or 9” x 13” x 2” oblong 
pan at 350° 45 to 50 minutes. When cake is done, top should spring back 
when lightly touched. Immediately turn pan upside down, placing tube 
part over neck of funnel or bottle, or resting edges of oblong pan on two — 
other pans. Let hang, free of table, until cold. Loosen from sides and 
tube with spatula. Turn pan over and hit edge sharply on table to loosen. 


Mrs. R. O. Purvis 





211 


ORANGE CHIFFON CAKE 

; ce Small cake 
1% cups flour (1 cup plus 2 Tbsp.) — 1% tsp. baking powder 
%4 cup sugar ! chia Mace Ng % tsp. salt 


Measure and sift together flour, sugar, baking powder and salt into a 
mixing bowl. Make a well in mixture and add in order: 
4 cup Wesson Oil | ie | Grated rind of 1 orange (about 
2 unbeaten egg yolks 1 Tbsp.) 
Juice of 1 medium orange plus | 
water to make % cup (?4 cup plus 


2 Tbsp.) : 

Beat mixture with a spoon until smooth. 

% cup egg whites 44 tsp. cream of tartar 
(4 whites) 


Measure egg whites and tartar into large mixing bowl; whip until whites 
form very stiff peaks. They should be much stiffer than for angel food 
meringue. DO NOT UNDERBEAT. Pour egg yolk mixture gradually 
over whipped egg whites, gently folding with rubber scraper just until 
blended. DO NOT STIR. Pour into ungreased pan immediately. Bake in 
8” x 8” x 2” pan at 350° 30-35 minutes; or a 5” x 10” x 3” loaf pan at 
325° 50 to 55 minutes; or a 9” tube pan at 325° 50 to 55 minutes. When 
cake is done, top should spring back when lightly touched. Immediately 
turn pan upside down, placing tube part over neck of funnel or bottle, or 
resting edges of square, oblong or loaf pan on two other pans. Let hang, 
free of table, until cold. Loosen from sides and tube with spatula. Turn 
_ pan over and hit edge sharply on table to loosen. 


Mrs. R. O. Purvis 
ORANGE DATE NUT CAKE 


1 cup nuts . 1 cup butter 

1 cup chopped dates 2 cups sugar 

14 cup flour 4 eggs 

3 cups flour 2 Tbsp. orange rind 

1 tsp. soda ea 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 tsp. salt 1-1/3 cups buttermilk 


Toss together nuts and chopped dates in '% cup flour until well coated. 
Cream together butter and sugar. Add eggs one at a time, beating after 
each. Sift together flour, soda, and salt, and add alternately with butter- 
milk to cream mixture, beginning and ending with flour. Beat and blend 
well. Add vanilla and orange rind. Fold in dates and nuts. Pour into 
well greased tube pan and bake in slow oven (325°) for 1% hours or until 


done. | Sauce 
14% cups sugar . 2 tsp. orange rind 
1 cup orange juice 
Combine sugar, orange juice and orange rind. Pour mixture over cake 
while cake is hot. I use a knitting needle to make holes all over the cake 
so that the sauce will soak in evenly all over cake. 

Mrs. Lindsey Mayberry, Jr. 


2a? 


PEACH UPSIDE DOWN CAKE | ve iS 
_ Makes 3 cakes 


3 eggs Ra EN a cup juice from peaches 
1% cups self-rising flour — ny 1 Thsp. vanilla 

1% cups sugar hee 3% stick butter 

2 large cans sliced peaches Light brown sugar 


In three pie pans, melt % stick of butter in each; sprinkle light brown 
sugar over melted butter. Cover with sliced peaches. With electric mixer, 
combine remaining ingredients and pour over peaches. Bake at 375° 
for 30 minutes. 


Bob Fisher 


SKILLET PINEAPPLE UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE 


: Serves 8 
2 8'4-0z. cans sliced pineapple °%4 cup granulated sugar ! | 
(8 slices) | 1% tsp. baking powder 
1% cup butter or margarine % tsp. salt 
2/3 cup light brown sugar, firmly | 4 cup shortening 
packed % cup milk 
8 maraschino cherries, drained | 1 large egg 
14 cup broken pecan halves Whipped cream 


1 cup sifted all-purpose flour 


Preheat oven to 350°. Drain Sine aEIe reserving 2 Tbsp. of syrup. Melt i 
butter in a 10” heavy skillet over low heat. Add brown sugar, stirring 
until sugar is melted. Remove from heat. Arrange drained pineapple on 


sugar mixture in skillet. Fill centers of pineapple slices with cherries and — 


spaces between slices with broken pecans. Into medium bowl, sift flour 
with granulated sugar, baking powder and salt. Add shortening and milk. 
Beat with electric mixer for 2 minutes. Add egg and reserved pineapple 
syrup; beat 2 minutes longer. Pour cake mixture over pineapple in 
skillet. Bake 40-45 minutes, or until cake springs back when gently pressed _ 
with fingertip. Let stand on wire rack for 5 minutes and loosen cake from — 
edge of skillet. Cover with serving plate; invert; shake gently; then lift — 
off pan. Serve cake warm and On ee with whipped cream or vanilla O 
ice cream if you prefer. | , 


ae J. Michael Evans. pea 


ce Daniel) 
‘PINEAPPLE DUMP CAKE US A a 
_. Serves 8-10 
1 3%-oz. can coconut Ce nt bos yellow cake mix : Morey) 
1 20-oz. can crushed pineapple PAS 2 sticks butter 


Put coconut in bottom of 8" ” 12" baking dish. Add crushed Siacabois ve 


Cover with yellow cake mix. Top with butter cut into thin strips. Bake at 
350° for one hour. Foals abi with whipped cream, _ 
Mrs. William A. Wynne, Jr. ) 
la once, 


213 


PISTACHIO CAKE I 


1 box Duncan Hines Yellow Deluxe % cup Crisco Oil 
Cake Mix Gp aie ay 4 eggs 
1 box PistachioInstant = = = 1 cup orange juice 
Pudding Mix i *4 cup Hershey’s Chocolate Syrup 


Mix first D ingredients for 5 minutes. Grease tube or bundt pan. Place 
2/3 of mixture in pan. With remaining batter, mix chocolate syrup and 
pour on top of the batter in pan; do not stir. Bake at 350° for 50-60 
minutes. i | 

Mrs. Thomas R. Vaughn, Jr. 


(Janice Grossman) 


PISTACHIO CAKE II 


| | Serves 12 
1 box white cake mix 34 cup Wesson Oil 
1 pkg. instant pistachio puddin 34 cup water 
1 tsp. almond extract _ Uk 1 cup confectioners sugar 
4 eggs | 2 Tbsp. orange juice 


Mix all ingredients until moistened. Beat 4 minutes with mixer. Place 
in greased and floured tube or bundt pan. Bake 45 minutes at 350°. Let 
cake cool. Glaze warm cake with 1 cup confectioners sugar mixed with 
2 Tbsp. orange juice. TR es: Par eaee eRe inane : 
| Mrs. Margaret W. Threatt 


PLUM SPICE CAKE 


2 cups strained baby food plums 1 tsp. cinnamon 
(amounts to 2 Junior size jars) 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 cups sugar % cup chopped nuts 

1 cup Wesson Oil !  & cup coconut 

3 eggs i | : 1 cup confectioners sugar 

2 cups self-rising flou Mee ba Mah Juice of 1 lemon 


1 tsp. ginger 


Cream together plums, sugar and oil. Add eggs, one at the time, 
flour, ginger, cinnamon, vanilla, chopped nuts and coconut. Bake in tube 
pan at 325° oven for approximately one hour. Put lemon glaze on while 
hot using confectioners sugar and lemon juice. 

Mrs. Young Pully 


POPPY SEED SUPREME CAKE 


1 box yellow cake mix | % cup butter-flavored oil 


1 5%-oz. box instant vanilla _ 1 cup sour cream 
pudding mix '% cup cream sherry 


4 eggs 4 cup poppy seed 


Place all ingredients at once in a bowl and mix for 5 minutes. Batter is 
supposed to be thick. Bake in a bundt pan for 1 hour at 350°. 
| Mrs. L. M. Barnes Ill 
(Margaret Daughtridge) 


214 


CARAMEL POUND CAKE - 


1 lb. light brown sugar i 3 cups plain flour, sifted 
1 cup white sugar - L eup milk 

2 sticks oleo 1% tsp. baking powder 

4h cup Crisco 1% tsp. salt 

5 eggs 1 tsp. maple flavoring 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add eggs one at a time, beating after 
each. Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Add dry ingredients es i 
milk alternately. Add flavoring. Bake at 325° for 1% hours. 


Icing 
1% cup light brown sugar % cup evaporated milk 
3% stick oleo % cup chopped nuts 


Place first three ingredients in saucepan. Stir constantly and bring to a 
boil. Remove from heat. Add 2 oe 2 aay chopped nuts. After cake cools, 


pour icing over top. 
Mrs. E. W. Coleman: 


CARAMEL NUT POUND CAKE 


1 cup butter tsp. salt 

% cup Crisco % tsp. baking powder. | 

1 box light brown sugar 3 cups sifted flour (all purpose 
1 cup granulated sugar or Swans Down) 

5 eggs 1 cup sweet milk 

1 Thsp. vanilla 1 cup finely chopped nuts 


Cream butter, shortening and brown sugar thoroughly. Gradually add — 
granulated sugar. Continue creaming. Add eggs one at a time, beating — 
thoroughly after each addition. Sift baking powder and salt with flour. 
Add alternately with milk, beginning and ending with flour. Add vanilla, 
then nuts, and blend well. Turn batter into a well greased and floured 
10” tube pan and bake at 325° for 90 minutes or until cake tests done. 
Cool in pan 15 minutes before turning out of pan. ue 

Mrs. Sam Lee, Jr. 

(Jo Rooke) 


CAROLINA FOUND CAKE | ; 
_ Serves 12-16 


1% lb. butter (2 sticks) : ee % tsp. baking bewder 
% cup margarine (1 stick) nos ie tap Balt: 

3 cups sugar 1 cup milk 

5 eggs 1 tsp. almond extract 
3% cups flour Aiea De es tsp. vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar, adding sugar gradually and creaming until ae. hi 
solved. Add eggs one at a time. Sift flour before measuring, add other dry — 
ingredients and sift again. Mix milk and extracts; add alternately with dry 
ingredients. Pour into greased apd | floured 10” tube pan. Bake at a0 fOr 
1 hour 10 minutes. | i 
4. Mrs Raymond T. Doyle 
(Eleanor Prevost) — 


215 


CHOCOLATE POUND CAKE 


2 sticks butter , % tsp. salt 

% cup Crisco ial ae 1 tsp. baking powder 
3 cups sugar ees ahead 4 heaping Thsp. cocoa 
5 eggs i : 1 cup sweet milk 

3 cups all purpose flour . 1 tsp. vanilla 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after 
each addition. Sift dry ingredients together and add alternately with milk 
and vanilla. Put in greased and floured large tube pan and bake at 325° 
in preheated oven for 1 hour 20 minutes. 


Icing — 
2 squares unsweetened chocolate 1 stick margarine 
2 cups sugar 1 Thsp. white syrup 
weupmilk 2 tsp. vanilla 


Place all ingredients, except vanilla, in sauce pan and let come to a roll- 
ing boil. Cook for 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and 
add vanilla. Beat with mixer until spreading consistency. Spread immedi- 
ately on cake: Tre es ea Uaac TPN agar | | 3 

| Lilla Winstead 


GOOD POUND CAKE 


1 cup butter (2 sticks) a % tsp. baking powder 
1% cup Crisco | 4 tsp. salt 

3 cups sugar 2 tsp. vanilla 

5 eggs 1% cups milk 


3 cups flour, plain 


Have eggs and butter at room temperature. Mix by creaming method. 
Bake at 325° for 1 hour 20 minutes. Keeps well indefinitely in a cool place, 


well covered. 
Mrs. K. D. Weeks 


(Mildred Holley) 
POUND CAKE 
6 eggs 3 sticks margarine (*% Ib.) 
1 i-lb. box confectioners sugar 1 Tbsp. vanilla 
2 cups flour 4-oz. can black walnuts 


Crear margarine and sugar together. Then add one egg at a time, whip 
each egg until it disappears. Add flour, one cup at a time. Stir in vanilla 
and nuts. Pour into greased and floured tube cake pan. Cook in 300° oven 
for 1 hour 15 minutes. 

Mrs. William L. Bryant 


216 


SOUR CREAM POUND CAKE 


3 cups sifted flour i Wee 6 eggs 
% tsp. soda 1 cup sour cream 
2 sticks butter 1 tsp. vanilla 


3 cups sugar 


Sift flour and soda twice. Cream butter; add sugar slowly, creaming ear 
Add eggs, one at time, beating one minute after each egg. Stir in sour — 
cream. Add flour mixture cup at atime. Stir in vanilla. Pour into greased — 
and floured 10” tube pan. Bake at 325° for 1 hour 30 minutes. Cool 5 
minutes before removing from pan. 


Mrs. Michael S. Colo 


(Mary Alice Barr) 
PUDDIN’ CAKE 
1 3%-oz. pkg. dark sweet chocolate 1 pkg. devil’s food cake mix. 
pudding mix % cup semisweet chocolate pieces 
2 cups milk % cup chopped nuts © 


Grease and flour an oblong 13” x 9'4" x 2” pan. Cook pudding with milk 
as directed on package. Blend dry cake mix into hot pudding. Pour into 
pan. Sprinkle top of batter with chocolate pieces and nuts. Bake at 350° 
for 30-35 minutes. el 
Mrs. F. Stephen Moore 
(Marilyn Ward) 


PRUNE CAKEL 


2 cups self-rising flour 1 tsp. allspice 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 cup corn oil | 1 8-oz. jar baby prunes with tapioca 
3 eggs , , 1 cup chopped pecans 


1 tsp. cinnamon 


Preheat oven at 350°. Beat all vedi oits on medium ee Use tube | 


pan or loaf pans. Bake for 45 minutes or until toothpick stuck near center nak 


comes out clean. 


Mrs, Robert Chandler, Jr. 
i (Betty Morton) 





Po Esa erat 
CN ide Bh 


217 


PRUNE CAKE II 


3 eggs ne A 1 tsp. baking soda 


Ll cup vegetable oil . vata 1 tsp. cinnamon 
1% cups sugar Yoo 1 tsp. nutmeg 

2 cups plain flour Bade I tsp. allspice 

1 cup buttermilk | 1 tsp. salt 


1 cup pitted cooked prunes vy 1 tsp. vanilla 
1 cup pecans Oe as NEA i: nara 


Combine oil and sugar, add eggs. Mix soda, salt, flour and spices to- 
gether. Add alternately with buttermilk to mixture. Add prunes and nuts. 
Pour into a 9” x 13” x 2” pan. Bake 40 minutes at 350° or until toothpick 
can be inserted in center and come out clean. 


Sauce for Prune Cake 


1 cup sugar ot 1 Thsp. light corn syru 
% cup buttermilk Vahaene % tsp. vanilla en 
tsp. soda 


Mix ingredients and boil for two minutes and pour over prune cake. 
Mrs. Lanny M. Roof 
(Sally M. Herbert) 


QUICK TIPSY CAKE 
1 large bought angel food cake ah 1 small container Cool Whip Serves 10 
2 pkgs. instant vanilla pudding % cup shredded coconut 
4 cups milk % cup blanched slivered almonds 


2/3 cup dry sherry 


Cut cake in half. Tear one half into small bits and line bottom of large, 
oblong pyrex dish with these bits of cake. Into 2 cups milk, pour 1 pack- 
age pudding mix. Beat for 2 minutes with rotary beater. Add 1/3 cup 
sherry to pudding and mix well. Pour over cake bits. Take the other half 
of cake and tear into small bits. Line first mixture with these. Into 2 cups 
milk, pour other package pudding mix. Beat 2 minutes with rotary beater. 
Add other 1/3 cup sherry. Mix well. Pour over cake bits. Ice all of this 
with container of Cool Whip. Sprinkle with shredded coconut and slivered 
almonds. Cover with Saran Wrap and refrigerate. Make a day or two 
before serving so sherry flavor will have a chance to seep through mix- 


99 CC 
Ss Yr 2. ‘O. 
WV VANON wo Va (4. 


Mrs. Jim Knight 
(Alice Diehl Barnes) 









218 


SHEET CAKE 


2 cups sugar  ‘weup buttermilk 
2 cups plain flour 2 eggs 

1 stick oleo , 1 tsp. soda 

12 cup Crisco He Ge 1 tsp. vanilla 

14 cup cocoa | 1 tsp. cinnamon 


1 cup water. 


Sift together 2 cups sugar and 2 cups flour. Set aside. In sauce pan, 

place oleo, Crisco, cocoa and 1 cup water. Bring to a rapid boil. Pour 
over flour mixture. Stir well. In another pan, mix buttermilk, eggs, soda, 
vanilla and cinnamon together. Add to liquid mixture, mix and ‘pour 
into a greased 16” x 11” pan or 2 9” x 9” pans. Bake at 350° for 7s min- 
utes. 


Icing 
1 stick oleo 1 box confectioners sugar 
14 cup cocoa 1 cup nuts 
6 Thsp. milk 1 tsp. vanilla 


Start icing 5-10 minutes before cake is done. Melt and boil oleo, cocoa | 
and milk. Remove from heat and add sugar, nuts and vanilla. Ice cake; 
cut In squares. 

Mrs. Charles Pullen 

(Peggy Griffin) . 


VANILLA WAFER CAKE 
2 sticks butter or margarine 1 can Angle Flake boconue 
2 cups sugar % cup milk © 
6 eggs 2 cups chopped nuts 


1 12-o0z. box vanilla wafer crumbs 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and ¥% (6 02.) of vanilla wafer Coane 
Mix well. Then add coconut, milk, nuts and other half of vanilla wafer 
crumbs. Place piece of waxed. paper in bottom of bundt cake pan. Grease 
paper and sides of pan. Pour i in a batter and bake 1 hour 10 minutes at 350°. 
| _ Mrs. L. M. Barnes, Jr. 
| Nislatciihad Daughtridge) 


MAVIS BOBBITT’S SHORT BREAD 


2 cups sifted flour ees nee 3 cup sugar 
2 sticks real butter CN MOD MW tsp. salt 


Cream butter and sugar. Add flour and salt. Knead into 3 ee Lie : 
balls. Flatten into 3 circles. Prick and edge with a fork. Place on brown ? 
_ paper on a cookie sheet. Bake at 300° for 40 minutes. 

Mrs. A. P. Thorpe II 
_ Annie Gray Calhoun) 


219 


~ RED VELVET CAKE 
‘2 cup shortening Digan Ae a i tsp. vanilla 
1% cups sugar GURY % tsp. vinegar 
2 eggs oe 1 tsp. baking soda 
2% cups cake flour === = ~=—=~—~—~—~—.._-— «8 Tbsp. Nestles Quick 
1 tsp. salt ae 2 1-oz. bottles red food coloring 


1 cup buttermilk 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add eggs. Mix Quick and food coloring and 
add to shortening mixture. Sift cake flour and salt. Add alternating with 
buttermilk to shortening mixture. Add vanilla, vinegar and soda and 
mix well. Pour into 3 greased cake pans. Bake at 350° for 25-30 minutes. 


Frosting 
1 stick soft margarine 3 Tbsp. cake flour 
4 cup shortening ; 2/3 cup milk 
1 cup sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 


Beat margarine, shortening and sugar. Add cake flour one spoon at a 
time; add milk gradually; then vanilla. Beat until light and fluffy. Frost 
tops of layers. Children love it! . | ‘ 
3 Mrs. Lyle Crumpler 
(Leslie Cloyes) 


1 cup buttermilk 
1 tsp. vanilla 
4 Thsp. red food coloring 


WALDORF-ASTORIA CAKE 


% cup shortening 
1% cup sugar 


2 eggs 

2 cups cake flour 1 Tbsp. vinegar 

1 Thsp. dried cocoa ; 1 tsp. baking soda 
1 tsp. salt 


Cream together shortening, sugar and add eggs. Sift flour, cocoa, and 
salt 3 times. Mix buttermilk, vanilla and food coloring. Alternately 
add shortening mixture, flour mixture and buttermilk mixture, using 
electric mixer. When thoroughly mixed, add vinegar and baking soda; 
this will bubble. Cook at 350° for 30 minutes in 2 9” greased and lined 
cake pans. Let cool before removing from pan. 

Icing 
% cup flour 1 Tbsp. vanilla 
1 cup milk 1 stick butter 
1 cup powdered sugar — % cup shortening 


Put flour in saucepan. Slowly add 1 cup milk; stir with whisk over low 
heat. Put aside. Cream sugar, vanilla, butter and shortening. Add to 
cooled pudding mixture. Whip. Ice cooled cake. Top with coconut. This 
red cake is particularly festive for Valentine’s Day or the holidays. 

Amy Hunter 

Raleigh, N. C. 


220 


RUM CAKE 
1 pkg. Duncan Hines Butter | % cup pecans 
Golden Cake Mix | cup light rum 
1 pkg. Duncan Hines Yellow 1 cup water 
Cake Mix : ~ % cup Crisco Oil 
1 pkg. vanilla instant pudding 4 eggs 


Mix cake mixes and pudding together in large bowl. Add rum, water, 
oil and eggs. Beat 3 minutes. Grease and flour bundt or tube pan. Crumble 
pecans in the bottom of pan. Pour batter over nuts. Bake at 325° for 50- 
60 minutes. Cool and remove from pan. 


Glaze 
1 cup sugar | 1 stick butter 
4 cup rum cup water 


Mix all together in sauce pan. Cook over low heat until smooth. Pour 2 
of glaze on cake while glaze is still hot. Cool rest of glaze to harden on 
top of cake. | 

Mrs. Sam P. Douglas, Jr. 


(Gail Barksdale) 
SCOTCH CHOCOLATE CAKE 
1 stick margarine 2 cups flour 
% cup oil 2 cups sugar 
1 cup water 2 eggs 
4 Tbsp. cocoa 1 tsp. vanilla 


Mix all ingredients together and pour into a 9” x 12” pan. Bake at 350° 
for 35 minutes. Ice cake while it is hot and prick with a fork. Very moist 
and rich cake. | 


ne 
1 stick margarine 1 box bowdered sugar 
4 Tbsp. cocoa 1 tsp. vanilla 
6 Thsp. milk : : 1 can coconut 


Mix together and use to ice cake. 
| | Mrs. Steve Wright 
(Mary Jeffress) 


—s se. 7. fe © ¢@ 8 aye wale 
® Se gO gy 





221 


_ STRAWBERRY CAKE 


1 pkg. white cake mix ean Dia? ! 4% cup milk 

3 Thsp. flour saa 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 3-0z. pkg. strawberry jello (ee % 10-o0z. pkg. frozen strawberries, 
4 eggs mea sliced : 


1 cup Wesson Oil 


Thaw strawberries and don’t drain. Beat eggs. Mix and sift flour, jello, 
cake mix, add small amount of flour mixture to eggs. Beat; add small 
amount of strawberries and oil to mixture. Continue adding; when get- 
ting thick, add 2 of milk. (Sometimes not all milk is needed because of 
liquid of strawberries). Add vanilla and beat. Bake about 25-30 minutes 
at 325°. 

Strawberry Frosting 


1 stick soft butter % pkg. frozen sliced berries 
1 pkg. powdered sugar, sifted oe | 


Blend butter and berries in sugar and frost cake. 
Mrs. Gerald Cox 
(Meilia Smith) 


NEW ENGLAND WHISKEY CAKE 


i pkg. yellow cake mix or pineapple 1 cup chopped nuts 
supreme | A eggs 
1 pkg. instant coconut pudding | 1 cup water 
1 cup Mazola (or corn) oil 1 small jar Maraschino cherries 


Mix above ingredients. Grease and flour a 9” or 10” tube pan. Put cherries 
on bottom all around. Pour mix over it; bake at 350° about 50-60 min- 
utes. | | 
Whiskey Cake Frosting 
% Ib. butter | 1 cup sugar 
% cup whiskey | | an 
Mix butter, whiskey and sugar. Melt in saucepan. Take cake from oven 
and pour 2 of whiskey sauce over cake. Cool about 20 minutes. Next 
remove from pan and pour remaining sauce over it. Cool cake and cover 
with whipped cream or Cool Whip. Delicious! 

| Mrs. Neal Adkins 

(Mary Schonberger) 


EASY CHOCOLATE FROSTING 


Frosts 2 or 3 8” or 9” layers 


% cup shortening 4 cups confectioners sugar 
1 egg, Grade A | ! 1 tsp. vanilla 

1“ cup cocoa or more 1/3 cup milk 

14 tsp. salt 


Blend shortening, egg, cocoa and salt. Add sugar, alternating with milk 
and vanilla, mixing until smooth and creamy. Vary to taste. 

Mrs. E. K. Gravely 

(Janice Beavon) 


222 


FUDGY WHITE FROSTING 
Frosts 2 layers 
2% tsp. flour % tsp. vanilla or almond flavor 
% cup milk Dash salt 
12 cup shortening 3-34 cups powdered sugar 


% cup sugar 


Combine the flour and milk in a saucepan and cook over low heat until 
thick, stirring constantly. Cool. Combine shortening, sugar, vanilla and 
salt in a bow! and beat with a mixer until fluffy. Add flour mixture and 
beat one minute longer. Beat in enough of.the powdered sugar for spread- 
ing consistency. 

Louise Gravely 


COCONUT ICING 
2 cups sugar 2 egg whites 
1 cup milk 1 grated coconut 


Cook milk and sugar together until they have boiled 3-5 minutes. Add 
coconut and cook 2 minutes. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Put on 
cake while warm. | 


Sledge Daniel 


CHOCOLATE CAKE ICING 


3 cups sugar % stick butter 
4 blocks chocolate 1 cup of milk, less 1 Tbsp. 
3 Tbsp. Crisco 


Place all of above in heavy pot and cook 3 minutes; let boil and take off 
fire and cool. Beat until creamy and icing is ready to spread. Let form 
soft ball in cup of cold water. It is ready at this point. 
Mrs. Donald J. Raper 
(Jacqueline Byrd) 


MOCHA CHOCOLATE FROSTING 
ber Frosts 2 8” layers 
1 stick butter, softened % tsp. instant coffee powder 


1% tsp. salt  % cup milk 
3 cups confectioners sugar ) 1% tsp. vanilla 


14 cup cocoa 


Mix above ingredients until smooth and creamy. 
Mrs. Sam Johnson 
_ (Velma Harrison) 


223 


APPLE PIE 


% eup butter | 3 large tart apples 
2 Tbsp. lemon juice Mace 


1 cup sugar 


Let butter soften at room temperature, then cream and add sugar grad- 
ually; cream until light and fluffy. Add lemon juice. Peel apples and slice 
very thin; then fold them into above mixture. Line pie pan with pastry 
and fill with apple and cream mixture. Sprinkle the top with mace. Cut 
long strips for the top crust 1” longer than the pan. Place the strips across 
the pie and moisten them slightly with water where they meet the edge 
of the pie. Press down edges, press with a fork and cut off surplus. Prick 
entire top with fork. 
Mrs. S. R. Purvis 


(Mayme) 
DEEP-DISH APPLE PIE 
6 tart apples % cup hot water 
2 cups sugar 1 stick butter or margarine - 
2 Tbsp. cornstarch 2 pie shells 


1 Tbsp. cinnamon 


Peel, core and slice apples. Line a 2-qt. casserole dish with one of the 
unbaked pie shells. Arrange apples in casserole and pour hot water over 
apples. Combine sugar, cornstarch and cinnamon and sprinkle mixture 
over all. Dot the top of mixture with butter. Place remaining pie shell over 
the entire mixture, sealing edges. Pierce with a fork. Bake at 350° until 
crust is golden brown and pie is bubbly. Delicious served hot with vanilla 
ice cream. 
Mrs. J. Michael Evans 


(Pam Daniel) 
METROPOLITAN APPLE PIE 
1% cups pineapple juice 1 Tbsp. butter 
1% cup sugar tsp. vanilla 
7 cups pared, cored, sliced '%, tsp. salt 
cooking apples (7 medium golden % cup chopped nuts 


delicious) 1 9” baked pie shell 


3 Tbsp. cornstarch 

Combine 114 cup pineapple juice and sugar and bring to a boil; add apple 
slices. Simmer, covered, until tender, approximately 5 minutes. Lift 
apples from syrup, set aside. Mix cornstarch and remaining “4 cup pine- 
apple juice. Add to syrup in pan. Cook over medium heat, stirring until 
bubbles. Cook one minute more. Remove from heat, add butter, vanilla, 
~ galt and nuts. Cool 10 minutes. Pour half of custard mixture into ple shell 
to cover bottom. Layer cooked apples on top. Spoon remaining custard 
over apples. Garnish with more nuts if desired. Chill thoroughly before 


neg. 
hares Mrs, Bok Wallace 
(Carol Threatt) 


224 


_ PAPER BAG APPLE PIE 
1 unbaked 9” pie shell 3 2. Tbsp. lemon juice 


7 cups chopped baking apples % cup sugar (for topping) 
% cup sugar (for filling) | % cup flour (for topping) 
2 Tbsp. flour (for filling) Ww ne (1 stick) butter or margarine 


% tsp. nutmeg 


Place apples in a large bowl and Sunde % cup sugar, 2 Tbsp. flour and 


nutmeg over them; toss to coat well. Spoon into pastry shell and drizzle 


with lemon juice. Combine % cup sugar and % cup flour for topping in 


a small bowl]; cut in butter or margarine and sprinkle over apples to cover 
top. Slide pie in brown paper bag (grocery) large enough to cover pie 
loosely; fold open end over twice and fasten with paper clips; place on 
cookie sheet for easy handling. Bake in a 425° oven one hour. Split bag 
open and remove pie; serve with cheese or ice cream. 
Mrs. Walter J. Early _ 
(Margaret MacDonald) 


BANANA PINEAPPLE PIE 
| Makes 2 pies 


1 banana per pie, sliced % cup coconut 
1 20-oz. can crushed pineapple 1 pkg. Dream Whip 
6 Tbsp. flour 2 baked pie shells 


1 cup sugar 


Slice one banana into each pie shell. Put pineapple in pan. Add sugar and © 


flour. Stir and cook until thickened. Add coconut and pour into pie shells. 
Put Dream Whip on top. Chill. : | 
Mrs. David Jay 
(Susan Klitzner) 


CHOCOLATE CHIFFON PIE IN MERINGUE CRUST | 


2 eggs, separated , Ik cup chopped pecans 
% cup sugar | 


Beat egg whites until they fen peau Add sugar slowly we beat. until — 
stiff. Fold in nuts. Spread mixture in greased pie pan or plate. Be sure _ 
edges of pan are well greased. Smooth meringue up over edges. Bake abr ia 


300° about 55 minutes, until nicely brown. Cool. 


Filling 
6 1.05-o0z. plain Hershey bars 1 tsp. vanilla ; 
3 Tbsp. water 1 cup whipping cream, whlppeds 


Melt Hershey bars in 3 ‘Thep: Watee. Cool and add vanilla. Be sure mix- Of 
ture is cooled. Pour chocolate ie ee into whipped cream. Pour into eg 


cooled pie shell. Refrigerate. ae 
A tre. Theo Pitt, Jr. 
i (Molly Browning) 


225 


CHOCOLATE ANGEL PIE 
: Ue Seo a at ieon ne OU ae Serves 6-8 
2 egg whites | Eras mlte | 4 cup nuts 
% tsp. cream of tartar aa neat Saal 1 tsp. vanilla 


6 cup sugar 


Beat egg whites until foamy, add cream of tartar and beat until it stands 
in soft peaks. Add sugar gradually and beat until stiff. Add nuts and 
vanilla. Put in cold buttered pie plate. Shape like crust. Bake at 300° for 
55 minutes. When done, open oven door and leave until cool. 


| Filling 
% Ib. semi-sweet chocolate | 1 tsp. vanilla 
3 Tbsp. hot water 1 cup cream 


Melt chocolate with hot water. Let cool. Add vanilla. Whip cup of cream 
and add chocolate. Place in refrigerator for at least 2 or 3 hours. 
Claude Aycock 


CHOCOLATE CHESS PIE 
iy Makes 2 pies 


3 cups sugar. iu HO aisha ait A eggs 
7 Thsp. cocoa (4 cup) © - Leup milk 
3 Tbsp. flour 1 tsp. vanilla — 


1 stick margarine or butter, softened 2 uncooked 9” pie shells 


Cream dry ingredients with butter. Add eggs one at a time, beating well. 


Then beat in milk and vanilla. Pour into uncooked pie shells. Bake at 
375° for 45 minutes. 

Mrs. Gerald Cox 

(Meilia Smith) 


CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PIE 


1 cup sugar 1% cups homogenized milk (or 
3 Tbsp. flour Rha diluted canned milk) 
3 Tbsp. cocoa (or 1% squares 3 egg yolks, beaten 
chocolate) | 2 Tbsp. butter or margarine, melted 


1 tsp. vanilla flavoring 


Mix all ingredients in saucepan or double boiler and cook over medium 
heat until thick, stirring often. Pour into baked 10” pie shell. Top with 
meringue. 

Meringue 
3 egg whites 6 level Tbsp. sugar 
4s tsp. cream of tartar 


Beat egg whites and tartar at high speed until stiff. Add sugar, 2 Tbsp. 
at a time. Beat after each addition until smooth and creamy looking. 
Bake at 350° in oven until brown. 

Mrs. Herbert E. Gurganus 


226 


CHOCOLATE PIE I 


| Serves 6-8 
9” cooked pie shell - 1 tsp. vanilla ae 
34 cup butter 3 eggs 
1% cup granulated sugar _ Whipped cream 


1% squares unsweetened chocolate 


Cream soft butter and sugar with anette mixer. Melt chocolate and Sohen : 
it has cooled slightly, beat it into creamed mixture. Add vanilla and 1 egg 
and beat on high speed for 5 minutes. Continue to add eggs, beating 5 
minutes after addition of each egg. Do not skimp on beating time or pie 
will be grainy. Scrap sides of bow! during beating. Turn into baked pie 
shell and refrigerate at least four hours. Serve topped with sweetened | 
whipped cream and shaved chocolate. 437 calories per serving. 
Mrs. Fred W. Payne, Jr. 
(Shirley Jones) 


CHOCOLATE PIE II ve 
Makes 2 pies 


5 egg yolks 3 squares unsweetened chocolate 
2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 
34 stick butter 1 tsp. vanilla 


1 Tbsp. plain flour 


Melt butter and chocolate in top of double boiler. Beat egg ibs: ‘Add 
sugar, flour, melted butter and chocolate. Blend and add milk and vanilla. 


Bake 12 minutes at 400°, Reduce heat to 350° for about 20 minutes. Cool i 


ples. 

Meringue : 
5 egg whites | 5 Tbsp. sugar | 
14 tsp. cream of tartar | 


ose egg whites with tartar. When stiff add 5 ee sugar. itn 395° till | 
rown. | 7 


Mrs. C. P. Godwin 


CHOCOLATE ICEBOX PIE 


1 pt. vanilla ice cream a iinetier cup milk (regular) 
1 pkg. chocolate instant pudding ire 1 Panes pie shell 


mix 


Mix three ingredients iageien and can in eued pie shell; ‘let ee one 
hour in refrigerator and top with ae cream. . 
Mrs. P. Donald Jdebenn 
(Jean Sorrell) | 


227 


CHOCOLATE BROWNIE PIE 


32 Tbsp. cocea re % stick butter, melted (4 cup) 
1% cups sugar | ao . and cooled 
1 5.33 fl. oz. can evaporated milk 42 tsp. rum flavoring 


2 eggs, well beaten i, 1 unbaked pie shell (9” size) 
% tsp. vanilla Seareneaycy | 


Mix sugar and cocoa. Add other ingredients. Mix well and pour into un- 
baked pie shell. Bake at 350° for approximately 40 minutes or until not 
runny in center. Cool on rack. Top will look much like baked brownie 
when finished. Add whipped cream and chocolate shavings for festive 
appearance. 

Mrs. Donald Brown 

(Stephanie Sullivan) 


CHOCOLATE RUM PIE 
ue : bs Makes 2 pies 


2 9” pie shells 1 envelope unflavored gelatin 
1-2/3 cups Pillsbury Fudge Frosting 2 eggs, separated 

Mix 4 cups or | 9-oz. container whipped 
1 cup milk | i topping such as Cool Whip 


4 cup rum or 1Tbsp. rum flavoring 


Place 1 cup whipped topping in each pie crust. Mix in double boiler the 
frosting mix, milk, rum, gelatin and egg yolks. Cook about 10 min- 
utes until thick like pudding. Cool 10-15 minutes. Beat egg whites until 
stiff. Fold into cooled chocolate mixture. Then gently fold in remaining 
2 cups of whipped topping into mixture. Pour mixture into 2 pie crusts. 
Stir until slightly marbled. Refrigerate 2-3 hours. 

Mrs. Ed Hertwig 


CRANBERRY PIE 
Makes 1 pie; serves 6-8 
2 cups raw cranberries 1 cup plain flour 
% cup sugar ! 1 cup sugar 
% cup chopped pecans | “4 cup melted margarine 


2 eggs 


Grease a 10” pie plate. Spread the berries over the bottom of plate. 
Sprinkle nuts over the berries and 2 cup of sugar over nuts. Beat eggs 
and 1 cup of sugar together. Add the flour and melted margarine and mix 
well. Pour this mixture into pie plate. Bake 1 hour in preheated 325° 
oven. Serve with Cool Whip topping. 

Olivia Tanner 


228 


CUSTARD PIE | | 
: UN aia . - Makes 2 pies 
5 egg yolks | 4 Tbsp. cornstarch ) 
1% cup sugar | 29” uncooked pie shells _ 
1 qt. plain milk , | 


Place pie shells in 350° oven for 10 minutes or until brown. Let cool. 
Cream eggs, sugar, and cornstarch together in top of double boiler. Add 
milk and cook over medium heat, until desired thickness (approximately 
15 minutes), stirring constantly. Then pour mixture into pie shell. 


Meringue 
5 egg whites | | 1 tsp. water 
% tsp. salt 2/3 cup sugar 


Mix egg whites, salt and water in mixing bowl, beat with electric mixer 
until peak is formed. Then add sugar gradually. Beat until stiff and glossy, 
and all sugar is dissolved. When filling is cooled, pour meringue over pie. 
Cook in moderate oven (350°) for 12 to 15 minutes or until brown. _ 


Mrs. William L. Bryant 


DERBY PIE 
2 eggs, slightly beaten 1% cup flour 
4 lb. melted, cooled butter 1 cup pecans 
1 cup sugar | 1 6-oz. pkg. chocolate chips 


1 tsp. vanilla 


Mix together and pour into nabaled pie shell. oe 30 minutes at 375°. 
Serve at room temperature or warm with whipped cream. Rich, but — 
delicious. ? , 

Mrs. William Eskridge 


EGGNOG PIE 


1 Tbsp. Knox gelatin, dissolved i Bs 1 tsp. salt 
14 cup cold water Ik cup hot water 
4 egg yolks, beaten ; 3 Tbsp. rum 
%ecup sugar Ja pt. whipping cream 


_ Put egg yolks, sugar, salt and water into double boiler and makeacustard. 
Add dissolved gelatin. Cool. Beat egg whites, add 4 cup sugar, 3 Tbsp. 
rum; add egg whites into sugar and rum. Fold in custard and put into 
baked pie shell. Put in refrigerator to set. Ice with 4 pt. pps cream 
with a little nutmeg sprinkled over it. 


Airs Earl Baysden 


229 


GERMAN CHOCOLATE PIE 
ES Ga | Makes 2 9" pies 
2 uncooked pastry shelis 2 eggs 


14 cup sugar My 1 eup evaporated milk 

1 stick butter : 1 tsp. vanilla 

2 Tbsp. flour | License eth 1 cup Angel Flake coconut 
1 bar German Chocolate | | 1 cup chopped pecans 


Cream sugar and butter. Melt chocolate over low heat. Add flour, choco- 
late and eggs. Mix well. Gradually add milk; stir in remaining ingredients. 
Divide mixture into 2 uncooked pastry shells. Bake at 400° for 10 min- 
utes; reduce heat to 325° and bake 20 minutes longer. 


Mrs. Sam N. Lee 


(Jo Rooke) 
FUDGE PIE I 
1% sticks oleo : *4 cup flour 
3 squares unsweetened chocolate | = 1 tsp. vanilla 
3 eggs Dash salt 


1% cups sugar 


Melt together over low heat the butter and unsweetened chocolate. Beat 
eggs, add flour and sugar. Mix well. Add chocolate and butter and mix. 
Add vanilla and salt. Pour into greased pie pan and bake at 350° for 
about 18 minutes. Should be soft in center. Serve with vanilla or coffee 
ice cream on top. For brownies, add chopped pecans and bake in square 
cake pan. Cook about 20 minutes. Freezes well. 

India Sprye 


FUDGE PIE IT 


Serves 6 
2 eggs } Pinch salt 
% cup butter % tsp. vanilla 
1 cup sugar | 1% cup nuts 
2 Thsp. cocoa : | 1 Thsp. water 


14 cup flour (any kind) 


Melt butter in 9”, throw away, pie pan. Combine remaining ingredients 
and add to melted butter. Stir gently to mix. Bake at 350° for 25 min- 
utes. Serve hot or cold. 

Mrs. H. H. Chambless 


BROWNIE PIE 


3 eggs 1% cup chopped pecans 

Dash of salt 1 tsp. vanilla 

34 cup white sugar 1 cup heavy cream whipped, ; 

%, cup finely crushed chocolate sweetened (add vanilla if desired) 
wafers 


Beat egg whites, add sugar gradually and beat until stiff; fold in crumbs, 
nuts and vanilla. Spread evenly in 9” pie pan. Bake at 325° for 35 min- 
utes. Let cool, spread with whipped cream and chill in refrigerator. 

Mrs. Gerald Cox 


230 


CREME DE MENTHE PIE 


Serves 6 
1 cup chocolate wafer cookies, 1 7-oz. jar marshmallow cream 
crushed “cup green creme de menthe 
% cup melted margarine 2 cups heavy cream, whipped 


2 Tbsp. sugar 


Make crust ahead by mixing together crushed cookies, margarine and 
sugar; press into pie plate. Mix marshmallow cream with creme de — 
menthe until smooth. Add whipped cream and pour into pie plate. Freeze 
for 3-4 hours before serving. 


Mrs. Myles W. Gaythwaite 


(Biddie Davenport) 
GRASSHOPPER PIE 
20 chocolate ice box wafers, crushed 1 cup heavy cream, whipped 
4. Tbsp. melted butter 2 oz. creme de menthe 
24 large marshmallows 1 oz. creme de cocoa 


% cup milk 


Mix crushed chocolate wafers with butter and press into pie plate to form 
crust. Melt marshmallows with milk; chill. Whip cream. Add creme de 
menthe and creme de cocoa to whipped cream. Fold into marshmallow 
mixture and pour into chocolate crumb crust. Chocolate crumbs may be 
sprinkled on top. Freeze overnight. Serve frozen. | 


Mrs. George A. Burton, Jr. 


(Peggy Fulton) 
EASY GRASSHOPPER PIE 
Serves 8 
1 pkg. chocolate wafer cookies 2 Tbsp. white creme de cocoa 
1 7-oz. jar marshmallow creme 1 cup cream, whipped 


2 Tbsp. green creme de menthe 


Crumble cookies in a 9” pie pan. Combine other Mughals and pour over 
cookies. Freeze 8 hours and serve. s 


Mrs. Robert Pitt 


MYSTERY PIE 
3 egg whites 1 cup chopped nuts (pecans) 
1 cup sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 
23 Ritz crackers, rolled or Whipped cream 


crumbled 


Whip egg whites until stiff. Gradually add sugar. Fold crackers and nuts 
into sugar and egg whites. Add vanilla. Put mixture in buttered dish. Bake 
at 325° for 30 minutes. Top with iain cream or Dream or Ppa 
with crushed nuts. Chill. a 


Mrs. Richard E. Sag 
(Carolyn eee 


231 


IMPOSSIBLE PIE 


i% cups sugar Mee.) Dtep. Vanilla 
% cup self-rising flour ff 2 cups milk 
4 eggs, beaten 7 oz. coconut, fresh or Angel Flake 


2 stick melted butter or margarine 


Mix sugar and flour and add béaten eggs. Then add remaining ingre- 
dients. Pour into 2 greased 9” aluminum pie tins. Bake at 350° until 
brown on top, about 35 minutes. Makes its own crust! 


Mrs. Herman Joyner 


JAPANESE FRUIT PIE 
| Makes 1 pie; serves 6-8 
1 stick melted margarine  %eup coconut 
1 cup sugar % cup chopped pecans 
1 Tbsp. vinegar 1% cup raisins 
Pinch of salt 1 unbaked pie shell 


2 eggs 


Beat together well the first 5 ingredients; add coconut, pecans and raisins 
and mix well. Pour into an unbaked pie shell. Bake for 35-40 minutes 
in a 350° oven. | 


Olivia Tanner 


LEMON CHESS PIE I 


| v 
\ stick margarine or butter 1 lemon (juice and grated rind) 
144 cup sugar 1 baked pie shell 
2 eggs 


Mix all ingredients together by Hand. Bake pie shell 10 minutes at 350°. 
Add ingredients and bake at 350° for 20 to 30 minutes. Can be frozen 
after cooking. 

Mrs. Erwin B. Thomas 


(Anne Love) 
LEMON CHESS PIE II 
Serves 6 
134 cups sugar '% cup lemon juice, fresh 
2 Tbsp. cornmeal, leveled ; A tsp. grated lemon rind 
2 Tbsp. flour, plain, leveled 1 tsp. vinegar : 
4 eggs unbeaten ‘ 29” frozen unbaked pie shells 


4 cup melted margarine 


Mix sugar, cornmeal, flour; add one egg at a time, beating well after each 
egg addition. Stir in butter, vinegar, lemon juice and rind. Mix very well. 
Pour into two 9” frozen unbaked pie pastries. Bake at 325° for 4 min- 
utes on lower oven shelf. Delicious! 

Mrs. S. S. Toler, Jr. 

(Charlotte Wilkinson) 


232 


| LEMONADE PIE Lo 
Hee Makes 2 pies 
2 Graham cracker crust shells 1 can Eagle Brand milk — 

1 can frozen lemonade . 1 Tbsp. lemon juice 

1 large container Cool Whip 


Mix lemonade with Cool Whip: add milk and lemon juice. Pour into pie 
shells and freeze. Take out a few minutes before serving. 


Mrs. Larry Vainwright 
LEMON MERINGUE PIE 


1% cups sugar % tsp. grated lemon peel 
3 Tbsp. cornstarch 1/3 cup lemon juice 

3 Thsp. all-purpose flour 1 9” baked crust 

Dash salt 3 egg whites 

1% cups hot water 1 Tbsp. lemon juice 

& slightly beaten egg yolks 6 Tbsp. sugar 


2 Thsp. butter 


In saucepan, mix first 4 ingredients; gradually stir in hot water. Quickly | 
bring to boiling, stirring constantly. Reduce heat; continue cooking and 
stirring 8 minutes. Stir small amount of hot mixture into egg yolks, then 
return to hot mixture. Bring to boiling, cook 4 minutes, stirring constant- 
ly. Add butter and lemon peel. Slowly stir in 1/3 cup lemon j juice. Pour into 
cooked pastry shell. Cool to room temperature. For meringue, beat egg 
whites with 1 tsp. lemon juice to soft peaks. Gradually add 6 Tbsp. sugar, 
beating until stiff peaks form and sugar has dissolved. Spread meringue 
over filling. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 12 to 15 minutes until the 
peaks are golden brown. Cool thoroughly before serving. 


Mrs. Williazn A. Wynne, dr. 


(Jean Letellier) — 
LEMON CREAM PIE e 
: Gee : Serves 8 
1% cups sugar 6 Tbsp. lemon juice 
5 Tbsp. cornstarch | Mi Grated rind of 1 lemon 
4 Tbsp. all purpose flour | 2 Thsp. margarine 
2 cups boiling water | 1 baked 9” pie shell 


4 egg yolks, slightly beaten 
(reserve whites for meringue) — | wee OF | 

Mix cornstarch, sugar and fou Add bang water a te stirring 

constantly. Cook on low heat 10 minutes. Add egg yolks, lemon juice, 

rind and margarine. Blend well and cook on low heat. until thick. Pour _ 

into baked pie shell. Cover with meringue and brown in preheated 325° 

oven about 10 to 15 minutes. 


| Meringue 
4 egg whites a Dash cream of tartar 
6 Tbsp. sugar ) | ie a) Ms tsp. vanilla | 


Beat egg whites adding sugar aos Add cream nk tartar a vanil- i 

la, Beat until stiff and will hold peaks. 
| Mrs. Ed Vann 

(Emily Denton) | 














233 


OLD FASHIONED LEMON CUSTARD PIE 
2 large eggs : ee : ih ue : 4 cup lemon juice 


1 cup sugar | | If stick butter, melted slowly 
Grated rind of 1 lemon. ; A Gn ry ei | 


Beat eggs, and add sugar. To this add grated lenion rind, lemon juice, 
melted butter; pour into pie shell. Cook at 350° until brown, about 40 
minutes. ae tas 3 | 

Mrs. Dillon Rose 

(Katie Ellison) 


LEMON CHIFFON PIE 


1 pkg. unflavored gelatin, small ' % cup lemon juice 

“% cup cold water | 1 tsp. grated lemon rind 
4 egg yolks | | 4 egg whites | 

1 cup sugar _ Whipped cream 

4 tsp. salt | Btn al . 


Sprinkle gelatin over cold water. Beat egg yolks; add % cup sugar, salt, 
lemon juice and rind. Cook over medium heat until thick. Add gelatin 
and stir until it dissolves. Strain and cool. When beginning to set, fold in 
egg whites, beaten until stiff with remaining sugar. Pour into baked pie 
shell. Chill, Spread finished pie with whipped cream. Makes a 9” pie. 
Also good with graham cracker crust. : 
| Mrs. John A. Daughtridge 


OLD FASHIONED EGG PIE 


1% cups sugar. : | 3 1 tsp. vanilla 
2 Tbsp. plain flour : % eup buttermilk 


2 eggs ws 1 9” pie shell, chilled 
1/3 stick margarine, melted ! : ‘ 
Mix sugar and flour. Beat in eggs one at a time until light and fluffy. Add 
margarine and milk. Pour in pie shell. Bake at 350° for 25-30 minutes. 
: Mrs. Nancy Parrish 


PECAN PIE I 


2 cups brown sugar | i 1 cup pecans, broken 
4 Tbsp. margarine |. hn % cup milk 
2 eggs ‘ | 1 9” pie shell, uncooked 


1 Thsp. flour 


Combine all ingredients and pour into uncooked pie shell. Cook in 325° 


oven for one hour. . 
Mrs. Ray L. Bryant 


234 


PECAN PIE II 


% cup granulated sugar | 4 Tbsp. butter | 

1 cup dark corn syrup 1 tsp. vanilla extract 

3 eggs 1 cup broken pecan meats 
% tsp. salt ue 


Line a 9” pie plate with plain ute flutting the ee Cook sugar ‘and 3 
syrup until mixture thickens (228°). Beat eggs, add hot syrup to the eggs 
slowly, continuing to beat; then add the butter, vanilla, salt and nuts. 
Pour into the pie plate. Bake in a hot oven 450° for 10 minutes, then re- 
duce temperature to slow oven of 300° and continue to bake for 30 min- 
utes. Cool and serve with or without whipped cream or Cool Whip. 


Mrs. S. R. Purvis: 


Miley Micbigl dretcaictuta wich ai dene 


_ Serves 6-8 
1 #2 can crushed pineapple, drained 1 stick margarine, melted 
1 small can coconut 4 eggs, beaten 


2 cups sugar 2 frozen pie shells 
1 Tbsp. lemon flavoring | : 


Mix all ingredients together thoroughly. Pour into the 2 pie shells. Bake _ 
in preheated 350° oven for 45 minutes. Can be topped with sn ti | 
cream if desired. Can be prepared ahead. 


Mrs. J. K. Murrilil, Jr. 
(Norma Garland) | 


SWEET POTATO PIE 


Makes 2 pies 
2 cups cooked sweet potatoe Vy a salt : . 
mashed well ! 1 tsp. vanilla | 
2 beaten egg yolks a a Spe allspice 
1 stick butter or incite: melted % tsp. nutmeg 
1% cups milk 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 


¥, cup sugar 


Blend together ea ee Wuidter: sugar aha egg See ‘Adal milk ad f 
spices. Add 2 egg whites beaten very stiff. Pour into uncooked pie crust — 
shells. Bake at 400° 50- 55 minutes or until pies are > golden brown on - 
top. j 
Mrs. nivan Waters dr, 
(Patricia Alexander) 


235 


PUMPKIN PIE 


Makes 2 pies 
1 30-oz. can pumpkin pie filling = 1 cup pecan pieces 
Legg.) 4 cup brown sugar 
1 14-o0z. can sweetened condensed 1 Thsp. cinnamon 
milk (Kagle Brand) = 1 Tbsp. flour : 


Mix pie filling, egg and condensed milk well and pour into 2 unbaked 
pie shells. Mix pecan pieces, sugar, cinnamon and flour and sprinkle 
over tops of pies; dot with butter. Bake at 350° for one hour. 
Mrs. Benny C. Johnson 
(Joyce Maloney) 


RUM CREAM PIE 
a | nites | _ Serves 6-8 
1 crumb pie shell. | 1 pt. whipping cream . 
6 egg yolks : % cup dark rum 
1 scant cup sugar | _. Bitter-sweet chocolate, shaved 


Ll envelope gelatin in curls 
12 cup cold water : NG 


Make crumb shell in glass serving dish. Beat yolks until light and add 
sugar. Soak 1 envelope gelatin in % cup cold water. Put gelatin and 
water over a low heat, bring it to a boil, and pour it over sugar-egg mix- 
ture, stirring briskly. Whip one pint cream until stiff, fold into egg mix- 
ture and flavor with % cup dark rum. Chill until firm. Sprinkle top with 
chocolate curls. (Recipe from Mrs. Campbell’s at Williamsburg, Va.) 
tov | me - Mrs. 8. S. Toler, Jr. 
(Charlotte Wilkinson) 


FRESH STAWBERRY PIE 
1 baked pie shell 3 | ae) cup water 
1 pt. fresh strawberries . 2% Tbsp. cornstarch 
1 cup sugar 4 Tbsp. strawberry jello 


Bring sugar, water and cornstarch to boil. Remove from heat. Add 4 
Tbsp. strawberry jello. Stir until dissolved. Pour over berries in pie shell. 
Cool in refrigerator to congeal syrup. Whipped topping optional. 

Mrs. J. West Carty 

Fayetteville, N. C. 


COCONUT MACAROON PIE 


| . Serves 6-8 
% stick margarine, melted 1 13-0z. can evaporated milk 
1-1/3 cup sugar | 1 3%-oz. can flaked coconut 
2 Tbsp. flour 1 tsp. vanilla 


3 eggs 


Mix all ingredients together and pour into greased and floured pyrex 
pie plate. (There is no crust.) Bake in 350° oven for 35 to 45 minutes 
or until firm. This recipe makes a big, thick pie. 

May Mrs. R. P. Harris 


236 


ICE CREAM PIE 
1'4 cup chocolate wafer crumbs: . ty 3 cup melted poe 


4 cup sugar 


Mix well; line pie pan and hele : minutes at 350°. Cool ae and fill : 
with vanilla ice cream. Put in freezer while preparing Pada | 


Topping © 
3 egg whites, beaten stiff 2 Tbsp. derahnallow creme 
6 Tbsp. sugar 1 pinch baking powder 


Fold sugar, marshmallow creme and baking powder inte egg yes, 
Spread on top of ice cream, Broil until lightly browned; return to freezer 
until ready to serve. Serve hot fudge sauce over pie. | 


India Sprye 


MILE HIGH ICE CREAM] PIE a 
Makes I pie i 


1 pt. vanilla ice cream 1 deep dish pie shell, baked | 
1 pt. chocolate ice cream 4 squares German sweet chocolate 
8 egg whites at room temperature 4 squares bitter apeeaelss 

% cup sugar | %pt.cream _ 

12 tsp. vanilla 1 cup sugar 


4 tsp. cream of tartar 


Put layer of vanilla ice cream in the bottom of the saoten pie ae Next, | 
layer the chocolate ice cream. Set in the freezer while you make the me- 
ringue. Beat the egg whites with an electric mixer. Add the cream of tar- _ 
tar and beat until they form soft peaks. Add sugar and vanilla, beating © 
until stiff but not dry. Cover ice cream with meringue and put pie under 

broiler for about one minute, on bottom rack, or until it is golden brown. 

Return to freezer and make chocolate sauce. Put chocolate squares, sugar, © 
and about % cream in top of a double boiler. Cook over medium heat, — 
adding the remaining cream a little at a time. Let thicken and when right | 
consistency, pour over sliced pie. This recipe is from the ae sae 

Room of The Pontchartrain Hotel in New Orleans, Louisiana. i 


Mrs. C. A. Almand, dr. 


Bis Mey 
| BUTTERMILK PIE aoe 
| ee Serves 6 
2 cups sugar, mixed with 2 Tbsp. sg 2 -Leup buttermilk ee 
flour ra 1 Tbsp. lemon extract 


1 stick of butter Pa ari i turan ae unbaked pie shell 
3 eggs ci a elane, Cakat 


Mix, pour into shell, and bake at oar for 30 to 35 niirinto Can be Oe 


Mrs. John M, Thorp | 
_ (Cynthia Mahler) | 


237 


_ SARA’S ELEGANT CHERRY PIE 


! Serves 8 
1 unbaked pie shell | 1 ean red sour pitted cherries, 
1 can Eagle Brand sweetened well drained 
condensed milk | 4 cup broken pecan meats 
1/3 cup lemon juice © db pt. heavy cream, whipped 


Prepare standard graham cracker crust or pastry shell (9” or 10”) or 
purchase one, as for unbaked pie shell. Blend milk and lemon juice until 
thick. Add cherries and nuts. Fold in well. Whip % pint whipping cream 
well (no sugar added). Fold into cherry mixture. Pour into crust and 


chill overnight. ; | 
Mrs. Raymond T. Doyle 
(Eleanor Prevost) 





238 


CHERRY CHEESE PIE | | 
"Makes 2 pies 


LA cups flour oy i i 1% sticks margarine, melted 
6 Tbsp. light brown sugar Ge ae CUD chopped pecans ! 


Mix and press into 2 pie plates. Bake at mane 10. A minutes or - until 
lightly browned. Cool. a 


Filling 
1 8-oz. pkg. cream cheese, aaa - 1 small carton Cool Whip 
2 cups powdered sugar % tsp. vanilla — 


Mix and put into crusts. Chill 2 hours. Top with 1 can 1 cherry pie filling 
Mrs. Don Conley 


: Chick Fae 
| WONDERFUL CHERRY PIE — 
1 lb. can tart cherries | Cherry jello | | 
1 small can crushed pineapple  .—C.W«uAL._ cup chopped pecans 
%% eup flour M 1k mashed bananas a 


2/3 cup sugar 


Cook first four ingredients on stove until it comes i a boil ad Wiebe : 
of jello. Let cool and add pecans and mashed bananas. Pour into near 
cracker crust. Makes 2 ples. : 


: Annette Poebick | " : 


_ CHERRY PIE ida ip 
| : | | | Serves 8 
1 20-02. can shares pie filing ve we hoe ditty « ule mix Nae 
(Thank You brand) ne 1 cup chopped pecans» | 
i 8-02. can crushed Lpeianata hk Ma 1 stick melted butter or margarine 


: Place i in this order i in layers i in pie plate. Bake at 350° for 30-40 minutes. : 


Mrs. vy Wooten 
es Farris) 


| PINEAPPLE PIE GS a 

ae nein ae _ Makes 2 8” pies 
ican ase Brand ie PN tne Ss ahep. lena sd juice Lineal 
1 #2 can crushed ne drained _ ad 9-02. carton Cool ee 
1 cup chopped pecans ! 


_ Mix milk and juice oe thick. ‘Fold j in other ingredients and Pour in - 
Juanes cracker cae. Chill at a ‘ hour. ve 


Mrs. William B. Floyd, Jr 
an Hamm) 


239 


‘CHESS PIE 


1% cups sugar | 173 eup water 

2 Tbsp. flour i 1 stick butter, melted 
Dash salt : } oo 1 tsp. vanilla 

3 eggs CRE TL unbaked pie shell 


Blend sugar, flour and salt. Add eggs and mix well. Add other ingre- 
dients. Pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake at 300° for 45 minutes to 1 hour. 
| en) Ae Want _ Mrs. S. Preston Douglas 

Lumberton, N. C. 


_ LEMON PIE CUSTARD 
_ Makes 2 pies 
4 egg yolks 2 cups milk 


1 cup sugar | 1 tsp. vanilla 
4 Tbsp. flour 2 lemons 
% tsp. salt | 


Combine sugar, flour, and salt. Add egg yolks, juice and rind of lemons, 
mixing well. Stir in milk and vanilla. Cook over low heat, stirring con- 
stantly, until thickened. Pour in baked pie shells and top with meringue. 
Mrs. B. Thomas James 
(Retha Kermon) 


~~ COOKIE DOUGH FOR PIES 
: : ae Makes 1 crust 

1 Thsp. butter Cat ss eee ch) - % cup sugar 
1 cup flour ) 1 egg 
% tsp. baking powder | 
Cut butter mto dry ingredients. Add egg; mix well. Roll to % inch on 
floured board. For baked shell, cook 10 minutes at 325°. 

Mrs. J. Edgar Moore 

(Peggie Thigpen) 


CHOCOLATE TARTS 
12 individual (tart size) graham 34 cup scalded canned evaporated 
cracker crusts milk 
6 oz. semi-sweet chocolate bits 2 Tbsp. Grand Marnier or 1 Tbsp. 
2 eggs , Brandy or 1 tsp. vanilla 
3 Tbsp. strong, hot coffee 4% cup sugar 


Put everything but eggs in a blender and blend at top speed for a few 
minutes; add eggs and blend a little more. Pour into crusts and refrigerate 
overnight or several hours until ready to serve. Top with either Dream 
Whip or whipped cream and add about three slivered, toasted almonds 
standing up in cream for garnish. (I leave the tarts in the aluminum pans 
until ready to use—invert in hand and slide on plate; then top with cream. 
This recipe is easy, quick and very good. 
Mrs. John Lewis 
(Anne Bailey) 


240 | 


} # 
ORANGE SOUFFLE | 
: : i Serves 6 
3 egg whites ee on 2 Tbsp. orange marmalade | 
3 Tbsp. sugar | 14 tsp. almond extract 
Beat egg whites until stiff. Gradually add sugar and continue beating — 
until mixture forms peaks. Add marmalade and extract. Pour into ~ 
greased top of double boiler. Cook over hot water and cover top and 
cook for one hour. Turn out on warm serving plate. Cut in pie shape 
wedges and pour sauce over. : 


Sauce: | 
3s3egg yolks | 1 cup heavy cream, whipped and 
%4 cup confectioners sugar chilled 


1 tsp. vanilla % cup toasted almonds, chopped 
% tsp. salt ee aes | | 


Mix all ingredients and fold in whipped cream. Sprinkle with toasted 
almonds. | 

Mrs. Jim Gardner 

(Marie Tyler) 


GRAHAM CREAM TORTE | 


1 pt. heavy cream 2 ripe bananas, very thinly sliced 
i cup confectioners sugar or crushed pineapple or 

1 tsp. rum flavoring 3 other fruit | 

54 graham crackers 1 cup chopped walnuts or pecans 


Whip heavy cream with confectioners sugar and rum flavoring. Arrange 
nine graham crackers in a square on a plate. Spread with a thin layer of 
cream. Top with bananas. Repeat four more times. Top with crackers and | 
frost top and sides with cream. Coat sides with nuts and decorate top 
with nuts. Chill at least three hours and cut into nine squares or smaller 
slices if desired. 
Mrs. John Lewis 

(Anne Bailey) 


MILE-HIGH STRAWBERRY PIE 


1 10-oz. pkg. frozen strawberries 2 egg whites 


1 Tbsp. lemon juice ae 2 pt. whipping cream 
% tsp. salt : 1 tsp. vanilla 


1 cup sugar 


Let strawberries stand 15 to 20 minutes, then place berries, egg whites, 


sugar, lemon juice and vanilla in large mixing bowl. Beat until stiff — 


like meringue for 20 minutes or more. Whip cream and fold into first 
mixture and pour into either crumb crust or baked pie shell. Place in 
freezer for several hours before serving. Serve directly from freezer. — 


Mrs. Sam P. Douglas, Jr. 
- (Gail Barksdale) 





242 



























































CHINESE PEPPER STEAK 


1 flank steak 1/2 cup sherry wine 
3 green peppers 1/2 tsp. salt 
(cut in 1-1/2 inch pcs.) 1/8 tsp. pepper 


1 pkg. onion soup mix 2 Tbsp. cornstarch 
2 Tbsp. soy sauce 


Cut steak lengthwise in 1/2-inch strips and then into 1-inch pcs. 
Melt about 2 Tbsp. shortening in a skillet and fry steak a hand- 
ful at a time only long enough for it to change color. Remove 
meat and sauté green pepper. | 


Bring 2 cups water to boil in large kettle. Add onion soup mix 
and continue to boil for 10 minutes. Add meat and green 
pepper. Let simmer 1/2 hour. Add soy sauce, salt and pepper, 
wine and cornstarch (diluted in a little water) and cook until 
slightly thickened. (For variation, add a can of bean sprouts and 
a little more cornstarch.) Serve over steamed rice. Serves 4. 


5 


Bil, Mrs. Gerald Ford 
i Ie Raph 
ai hs (sue 


243 


NEW YORK STATE FLAT APPLE PIE 


| 


Crust 
2 cups flour % cup margarine 
% cup butter 3-4 Tbsp. ice water 
oi the butter and margarine into the flour with knife or pastry blender until 


like cornmeal. Add ice water gradually, and work in just enough to hold 
together. Roll out on board of marble slab (lightly floured) until one inch 
thickness and place in refrigerator for 20 minutes. Remove and again roll, 
this time to one-eighth inch thickness. Use flat pan or baking sheet 15x10, 
cover with prepared crust. 


| Filling 
11-12 New York State Apples, Juice of 4% lemon 
medium size ‘2 cup New York State maple syrup 
1 cup sugar New York State sharp 
1 Tbsp. cinnamon cheese, sliced 


Peel, core and cut each apple into six sections. Arrange in one layer on the 
crust in pan. Mix sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle over the apples, then 
sprinkle with lemon juice. Bake in oven which has been heated to 450 
degrees for 20 minutes, then reduce heat to 350 degrees and bake another 30 
minutes. Remove from oven, sprinkle with the New York State maple syrup, 
and serve while warm with a generous slice of New York State sharp cheese. 

1 


) Mrs. Nelson A. Rockefeller 


244 


BASQUE OMELETTE 


1 cup chopped green peppers Salt and pepper to taste 

1 cup finely chopped onions 4 tsp. oregano 

1 clove of garlic, or 4 to 6 strips country ham, 
14 tsp. garlic powder 14 inch thick 


4 tomatoes peeled and pulp removed, 
cut into thin strips 


Cook onions and peppers until tender but not browned. Crush garlic and add 
to vegetables. Add oregano, salt and pepper. Put tomato strips on top. Cover 
and cook slowly for 5 minutes. Uncover, raise heat and cook, shaking pan, 
until juices have evaporated. Set aside. Brown ham strips lightly i in oil in| 
separate pan. Set aside. 


Omelette 
8 to 10 eggs 2 Tbsp. oil or butter 
14 tsp. salt 2 Tbsp. chopped fresh parsley 


Pepper to taste 





Reheat vegetables and ham. Beat eggs, salt and pepper in a bowl until 
thoroughly mixed. Heat oil in pan, pour in the eggs and stir rapidly until 
eggs have set into a creamy mass. Remove from heat and spread over the! 
eggs the Basque mixture, blending it delicately into the eggs. Lay the ham: 
over the Basque, sprinkle with parsley and serve immediately. | 


Mrs. Henry Kissinger 








PE e iy PELTON 44 
ey atee UTE Rh ath 
WHET BA REN Nia) Cte — 245 
ee Pea Ore Cr ae ee 
ry ps if a v 
Oil etait 
t } 


? 


Maw AMES WRG AY tle 
| te Ve syd ; 
ar y se 


ad 


BOB HOPE’S LEMON PIE 


1 cup plus 2 Tbsp. sugar © 2 Tbsp. butter 

3 Tbsp. cornstarch or plain flour 4 egg yolks 

1 cup boiling water Pinch of salt 

4 Tbsp. lemon juice Grated rind of 1 lemon 


_In a double boiler combine flour and sugar. Add water slowly, stirring con- 

stantly until thick and smooth. Add slightly beaten egg yolks, butter, lemon 
rind, lemon juice and salt. Pour into baked pie shell. Meringue: Cover with 
meringue made from 4 egg whites, beaten stiff and 4 Tbsp. sugar. Brown in 
slow oven 325° about 15 minutes or till light brown. 





246 Wie SUCRE BS 


SEAFOOD FANGYai) ae? 


‘Makes 6 servings 


1 6%- or 7%-oz. can (about 1 cup) 1 cup mayonnaise. 
crab meat, drained and flaked 14% tsp. Worcesterabing sauce 


1 4%- or 5-o0z. can (about 1 cup) % tsp. salt 


shrimp, drained Dash pepper 
1 cup chopped celery 1 cup soft bread crumbs 
1% cup chopped onion 2 Tbsp. butter or margarine, 


4% cup chopped green pepper melted 


Combine all ingredients except bread crumbs and butter. Turn into a 1-quart 
casserole. Combine crumbs and melted butter; sprinkle over top of crab mix- 
ture; also can be served in individual pastry shells. Bake in moderate oven 
(350°) 45 to 50 minutes, or till hot through and crumbs are golden. ‘ 


Mrs. James E. Holshouser, Jr. 





247 


EASY BAKED BEANS 
Makes 8 servings 
2 16- to 18-0z. cans pork and beans 6 slices bacon, cut in pieces 


34 cup brown sugar % cup catsup 
1 tsp. dry mustard 


Empty one can pork and beans in to bottom of greased casserole. Combine 
sugar and mustard; sprinkle half of mixture over beans. Top with second 
can of beans. Sprinkle rest of sugar-mustard mixture, chopped bacon and 
catsup over beans. Bake, uncovered, in slow oven (325°) 214 hours. For 
special outdoor suppers, or church suppers, this is a favorite. The men 


especially like this. 


Mrs. Bob Scott 





248 








PROSTAR rt att SAO 
Ambrosia, Mock ................ 
American Chop Suey ........... 
APPETIZERS 
Almond Cheese Ball .......... 
Asparagus Dip ............... 
Beef & Cream Cheese Roll-ups 
GCE MERKY oo eee 
Blue Cheese Spread .......... 
Bourbon Wogsiit skate 
Braunschweiger Ball ......... 
Broccoli in Chafing Dish ..... 
Charleston Shrimp Appetizer . 
Cheddar Cheese Spread ...... 
Uneese Balls’ oo 
Cheese Spread 
Cheese Straws 
Cheese Wafers ............... 
Chinese Chicken “Drumettes” . 
Christmas Cheese Logs ....... 
Cocktail Reubens ............. 
GET) SO Gg A 
Crabmeat Dip (Hot) .......... 
Crab Vegetable Dip .......... 
Crackers Deluxe .............. 
Cream Puffs (shells) .......... 
Wucmarger lin... 6.2... el. 
ONS 67) 2) pe 
Date Appetizer ............... 
Deviled Ham Spread ......... 
Diet Workshop Cheese Ball ... 
Dill and Onion Dip ........... 
Easy Meat Balls in Sweet & 
OUP SAUCE Ooo. cee eck ee 
Peer Ee eon a atin 
French Fried Mushrooms ..... 
Delage ee ae eis ee er, 
Gourmet Meat Balls .......... 
Hot Beef Spread .............. 
Hot Cheese Rounds ........... 
PIOULC AM SUID... bc ace hee 
Hot Crabmeat Canapes ....... 
Hot Dog Appetizers 
Hot Mushroom Turnovers .... 
PBODSEETIDID (oc acs nth ce eee: 
Marinated Cauliflower ....... 
Minted Nuts 
Mushroom Roll-ups ........... 
Mushrooms in Barbecue 
MAUCEM gy woe ne aio ee Sam 
New Orleans Shrimp Spread . 
Party Cheese Balls ........... 
PICKIEC ONYIMD J) ssc esen ie 


oe eee ee eo © Ho wo ow 


CX - 
Pizza Franken: eran Ce 24 
PULTE KAN PO mate ek eer) G1) 23 
Sausage Cheese Balls ........ 16 
Sausage Twirls ............... 21 
Seafood Newburg ............ 24 
Shrimp Canapes ............. 20 
PALM p Opie ey ae et if 
Sarimp ipiiiie ss see eee i 
Shrimp Mold sent te 12 
Shrimp Mold Spread ......... 13 
Swedish Meat Balls .......... 6 
Sweet & Sour Meat Balls ..... 6 
EM pUraer ye Aces eae ae 14 
Tuna Spread or Ball .......... 12 
Underwood Deviled Ham 

Chafing Dish Dip .......... 19 
Vegetable Dip ................ 18 
Vegetable Spread ............. 1] 
Zippy Beef Olive Spread ...... 12 

Apple Bread eayieay naan tans Al 

Apple-Crisp i oreye 2a cece ea: 174 

ApplerCrisp Lia eee ss see 5 

Apple Cake, Fresh .............. 197 

Apple Nut Cake sew ae ae 197 

Apple Pig iat eee ao tae 223 

Apple Pie, Deep Dish ........... 223 

Apple Pie, Metropolitan ........ 223 

Apple Pie, Paper Bag ........... 224 

Apples: ‘Baked aun acueeys 62 

Apricot Applesauce ............. 62 

Apricot Casserole .............. 62 

Apricot Jello Salad ............. 86 

Apricot Nectar Cake ............ 198 

Apricot Salad een. ates <7 oes an 107 

Artichoke Casserole ............ 64 

Artichoke-Fresh Mushroom 
Casserolevmenceisicom case ekg 64 

' Artichoke Hearts, Stuffed ....... 64 

Artichoke, Spinach Casserole ... 65 

Asparagus Casserole ........... 79 

ASPALAgUS IPM. sac eh earth a 19 

Asparagus in Sour Cream ...... 80 

Asparagus-Pea Casserole ....... 80 

Aspararus pala Gn. esc a 107 

Asparagus Salad, Molded ...... 92 

Aunt Kay’s Tuna-Noodle 
Wasseroleic.n Reet eee 151 

Baked Applesw: eas os cea ates 62 

Baked Beans with Ground Beef . 129 

Baked Breaded Pork Chops ..... 138 

Baked Cheese Cake ............ 199 

Baked Chicken Salad ........... 99 

Baked Corn and Cheese ........ 77 

Baked gga eee wewet ne at cee 30 

Baked Kishi sete pee tee ee 141 








Beet Casserole : 


ot Beek & 


96) | Chie. ee ier Te: elteiiel le. Je) 


shun 
: t & Noodle Casserole .... 
Loaf I 


mh nag 











eee eee eee 





TO Orie) ler ees, 


sete ree es 


CTO AC PIER Ce Oa 
a 






‘Sttin 


CC 


a 
= 


/ Taco8 e dmboee 
; ce & Hamburger 
Casserole 


‘Sh @) NOVO, Chi By | @) VOLO! (eT var els @.4 6! 10. 


8. le) elie! le re) @h nei lah Ori.ae) Sve pine ene) 


va lene Casserdler aie cc aiite cease mee Hana Stawberey Punch 
Re lee r Cre ae pee a ee loody'Maryaiii 7 Vue 
Corned Be ne Aun nessoaL 1) eae eC ie PB 


. 116 . Eggnog 1 i es 
Ve Ua aee Besnog Tan ea vale 





. 
2 
o 
. 
. 


s, 
. 
ce 
. 


ee 


. 


. 


_ Beef & ry Cheese Roll-ups 


Chih 
oe LO 


es, 


mi Ws 
Lee 
events 

- 118 


Fs oe 
128 
127 
130 


121 
130 

oe LLGs 
na i) 
7180 
ee 
vw 


126 
ee Ga 
ot dele 
ah oe 
ges 
115 


co ‘31 


1214 


qi Sautéed in Shere 118 
Sr Cas chat Syte ales,, 


BRAVSNe ge 


Freezer Daiquiris ............. 26 
Frozen Rum Slush ............ 30 
Frosted Grand Mariner ....... 31 
Frosted Grasshopper ......... 31 
Pet Punch we ei 30 
Peotsronch Lae 3l 
High Protein Milkshake 
Pom Cnlidveng. ice et gi ee 28 
Maeiniay Peale ue ia a 29 
Bron Apple Gidens i) noise) 30 
Hot Buttered Rum ............ ae 
Hot Chocolate Mix ........... 28 
PC ach va cn See aah Were 26 
Pressigan) Lea ee weir Ulan L. 29 
phery Daiquiris: . 03.68. 26 
Dew AB De Are 2 teat g os! 29 
Vodka Christmas Punch ..... 27 
GOKa Punch is eu 30 
Serer atU pe oe oe ye Sie cs M8 
Watermelon & Wine Punch ... 28 
DOS ea ee 113 
Blender Green Goddess 
Bete cre ee be Nl 105 
Blender Mayonnaise ........... 55 
Bleu Cheese Dressing .......... 103 
Blond Brownies ................ 194 
MMOUIVMIATYS .. 2... . cece. ea. 27 
Blue Cheese Spread ............ 1a 
Blueberry Muffins .............. 43 
Peete Alad® .. one ee. 87 
Blueberry Squares .............. 191 
Blueberry Yum-Yum ............ 178 
BeiledvOustard ..)........00 606. 170 
EON MIOES 0... eee ok 9 
Bourbon Fruit Compote ........ 179 
PePenGyPreeze... kk ee 26 
Braunschweiger Ball ........... 16 
BREADS 
PAPOLCMRTEAC Ae ee Oe kk 4] 
Banana Nut Bread: . 6.0. 0)...06. 4] 
SCEIVIUEINS: oh ee laos 4 38 
Blueberry Muffins ............ 43 
PROM VCAC fe oii oe ds. bs acl ebis sc 42 
PPO RMB ETS eos ys ead oo 39 
Mrarmeeritters 068 oes fe esas. 40 
Cornmeal Muffins ............ 44 
Cranberry Nut Bread ......... 4] 
Date & Nut Loaf ............. 43 
Easy Homemade Rolls ....... 38 
MrenehuLoast: ii... cae Hue vie 43 
Fried Corn Bread Patties 
MRM oh aids Mics skits We c:. 39 
Herb-Buttered French Bread .. 42 
Herb Cheese Bread ........... 42 
Never Fail Hush Puppies ..... 40 


Grange VUtfinSiiss ss ae ous - 38 


Quick Spoon Bread ........... 39 
Raisin Bran Muffins ......... 44 
Sour Cream Cornbread ....... 39 
Tennessee Pumpkin Bread .... 40 
WalnutpBread i yh i ok 43 
Yorkshire Pudding ........... 38 
Breast of Chicken with 
Wald Ries ee ryt oe ies 167 
Broccoli Almond Casserole ..... 76 
Broccoli CasseroleI ............ 76 
Broccoli Casserole II ........... 76 
Broccoli Casserole III] .......... 83 
Broccoli Cheese Casserole ...... 76 
Broccoli in Chafing Dish ....... 10 
ISCOCCOU POUT TLE figs ied 348 ee ot, Ths 
Broiled Eggplant ............... 74 
Broiled Mish wAuNonine ys 28 141 
BLOWN Breage oe 42 
Browns Pgersis tii Cnt ue oe 39 
Brownie Pies on tam aes wees 229 
Butterbean Casserole ........... 80 
Butterscotch Brownies .......... 194 
Burtermilk Pree a 2 236 
CacsariSalader wiietind, rr sc cue 95 
Cafe Au Cream Quebec ......... 29 
Cajun Chili Con Carne ......... 126 
Caramel Ice Cream ............. 183 
Caramel Nut Pound Cake ...... 214 
Caramel Pound Cake ........... 214 
Caramel Rice Pudding .......... 170 
Carefree Casserole ............. 167 
Carolina Pound Cake ........... 214 
Carrot Wakebw 1G jam noe aS 198 
@arrot Cake Lie eae ve iene, 198 
Carrots Supreme ............... 73 
Champagne Punch ............. 30 
Charity Ball ’75 Salad .......... 86 
Charles Manor Crab Cakes peeks 142 
Charleston Shrimp Appetizer ... 14 
Cheddar Cheese Spread ........ 22 
GheeseiBalls enc... cade ae 15 
Gheese GIOUd s one) aie boat ols 3s 34 
@heese: Potatoes aun gant s see 0 84 
Cheese Pudding ................ 34 
Cheese Spread ..........----++- 21 
CHEESE: SOUT LC se. seem alt te areieese 36 
Cheese Strawsiiv ei wn. Seas 15 
Cheeseiwaterasric an sacar gies 15 
Cherokee Casserole ...........-- 131 
Cherry Cheese Pie .............- 238 
Cherry: Cobbler’. 5.2.4. 840.0.<. Lee 
Cherry Dessert ...........--+++: 176 
Wherry Piel seus mises See 238 
Cherry Salad) 208 20 si.02 5 2 a ef 
ChessiPiew scien ea to aa te sa 
Chewies aici er ns nein dea ae 
















: witttetatee ees 


© oi OF sy elt e: 


Pty at 
i Ae eve ee 


HG: Ae 2 ic 


Deh ea 


1 zerh ; tL se tees 

‘Au Vin ee 
ckling Tye Mentha gh tl 
ee ee ee eee 


Ce odie e) eens 


Hii Ghar shre ENS a 
Chicken 


eo eee ee ee ee ee noe 


Stuffed Chicken Breasts ...... 
Swiss Turkey-Ham Bake _ rs. 


‘arragon ( 

TRtkey Bisco Cece 

hat ten Caine ACER RE Rise Bhi 
ese Chicken ” ‘Drumettes” . 


° 


Che eoken pa ag aaa ee 
Chocolate Cake) & Chocolat: 


chon 


[ef Tole" <e) 10) FOL LOs 18) (0), O10) 61/056 Ee) LOR 410 Nee Op Ee Le) 


te Cake lemp tay eee 


Pe eo, 


194 


133 


oa 164° a 


167 
167 







56 
ad Chase 


LE : 97 
f KARE, Vac srees 2 










So ~ i=) eC eo 
rn ; . 
Lf 
es) 


ee ee 
eee eee ee soe 


eer eee eee ee 


Pie 
ee Gel Gin 


T 


ofa te) his jello ueiiel a) Sf aera a9 


ite ound Cake Ce eee O15 
Pu Brownies panos, 






py ChasMaeaes POE he A | 57 


sak eee Dadte eoeoeevrere ere eee eee ee 239 
ae eee ee ee eo ere eee ee ee eee 127 


a | ho Me - 136 


| Logan 46 16 
DKAw iowder Lia we ig ay 47 


ST a rena sig ah On bee > 


nS 


rat ane Boe ence 57 
Gocon t Mace ee 


cee eee eee 





¢ Marshmallow Jelly Aer 
Cold Oson Cake Ns i sae can Seat 
‘Cale'Slaw i240 ae tee aa 
Cookie Dough for Pies .......... 
Company S etti Casserole .. 1 
Congealed hi Salad@enc=. 
Cottealel Oeste Sed aa On 

cere menten Te 6) (0 ee: Lee!) e 
Comed Bee Hash Burgers ..... 


—. 


Pees ceee 


areata Aa Peg ME cevtits eie 
Sapiens oo 
Cenbeteke Ran RAE Aes a, NEO 
Saori te eke 17 
a Imperial esta Aornicny ne, Cima t wade, De Pe Bet 
Crab Meat CasseroleI .......... 142 


Crab Meat Casserole II ......... 142 


Prabvieat Dip ‘Hot’... 2... | 19 


SeiMent Pie )8 60) 143 
Crab or Shrimp Casserole ...... 144 
Crab Vegetable Dip ............ 18 
Crab Meat Dip (Hot) ........... 19 
Urackers Deluxe ......../....... 9 
Peeampery Cake) 2) 205 
Cranberry Jello Salad .......... 106 
Cranberry Nut Bread ........... 4] 
Berner io ee fo 227 
Mennverry Punch §.{.... 0.0.0... 31 
Sranberry Salad ....)..02...:... 108 
Cream Cheese Foldovers ....... 181 
Cream Puffs (Shells) ........... 9 
Creme de Menthe Pie ........... 230 
Prepesmucette 21... ec... 182 
Cuban Black Bean Soup ........ 48 
Reamer Dip... 0... ... ek... as" 
Mocumber Salad .)............°. 93 
Mecmmmcr soup s.........0..... 46 
Curried Broccoli Casserole ...... 84 
Mimed Chicken ()2)..0..0:..... 159 
Curried Fruit Casserole ......... 63 
Curried Hamburger ............ 129 
Curried Shrimp Rice ............ 101 
Curried Shrimp Rice Casserole . 147 
1D) 17 
0 eS 228 
Daiquiris, Freezer .............. 26 
Daiguinis,oherry ............... 26 
Matec mut Loaf ............... 43 
Date Appetizer ................. il 
Delightful French Dressing ..... 104 
DESSERTS 
SPI OS aS 180 
PPMIe Crisp oe. 174 
Ppmererisp ll soo. 0.. ee. ce 175 
mopie NutiCake >... ..... 02. 197 
PROePeepe 223 
Apple Pie, Deep Dish ......... apa) 
Apple Pie, Metropolitan ...... 223 
Apple Pie, Paper Bag ......... 224 
Apricot Nectar Cake .......... 198 
Baked Cheese Cake .......... 199 
Banana Pineapple Pie ........ 224 
Banana budding 1.).. 07.2. .)): 175 
Banana Pudding II ........... 176 
Bananas Plambe 3.0.5... 6). 175 
londiBrownies o.oo. 194 
Blueberry Squares ............ 191 
Blueberry Yum-Yum .......... 178 
poreduoustard.) ¢..... 26). 170 
Bourbon Fruit Compote ...... 179 
PPOWNIC PICS us ee hae. 229 
PSUTSEMU KEP ie 2 ume ke 236 


Caramel Ice Cream ........... 183 
Caramel Nut Pound Cake .... 214 
Caramel Pound Cake ........ 214 
Caramel Rice Pudding ........ 170 
Carolina Pound Cake ......... 214 
Carrot Cake tn ir aimee ie. 198 
Carrot Wake Thee ty ook ,. 198 
Cherry Cheese Pie ............ 238 
Gherry Cobbleriy ck wae 177 
Cherry Dessert ............... 176 
Oherty Pies was ae ore ea 238 
Wess Ries aOR eat 239 
(NEWIESi igo ee ity ete ay ie 195 
Chewy Brownies ............. 94 
Chocolate Angel Delight ...... 173 
Chocolate Angel Pie .......... 225 
Chocolate Brownie Pie ....... 22% 
Chocolate’ Cake (0 6.5 08, 201 
Chocolate Cake & Chocolate 

CHG ity BU Rice rk PRN OG bier ae 200 
Chocolate Cake Icing ......... 222 
Chocolate Chess Pie .......... 225 
Chocolate Chiffon Pie in 

Meringue Crust ............ 224 
Chocolate Chip Cake ......... 200 
Chocolate Custard Pie ........ 225 
Chocolate Icebox Pie ......... 226 
Chocolate Mint Ice Box Cake . 200 
Chocolate Mousse ............ 173 
Chocolate Oatmeal Cookies ... 189 
Chocolate Pastry Cake ....... 201 
Chocolate: Pies) ea coe 226 
Chocolate: PiedT ”... 2.20. 0i.3:. 226 
Chocolate Polkadot 

Meringuettes ............... 190 
Chocolate Pound Cake ....... 215 
Chocolate Pudding Brownies . 195 
Chocolate Rum Pie ........... 227 
Chocolate: Tarts ..2.3......... 239 
Cinnamon Sticks ............. 194 
POCHMUTICIN De tise ea tere? 222 
Coconut Macaroon Pie ....... 235 
CoOttee tC akesita seme eke e 202 
Coffee Marshmallow Jelly .... 172 
ColdcOven: Cakes since. os 204 
Cookie Dough for Pies ........ 239 
Cranpery Cakes. 2 yaaens 205 
Cranbertyeh lesser as eee Dot 
Cream Cheese Foldovers ..... 181 
Creme de Menthe Pie ......... 230 
Crepes Suzette ............--- 182 
(SustardtPiewse peas a ae 228 
Danish Kaffekage 

(Coffee’Cake)s ese toupee. 203 
Date-Bare ean tees ote ees 192 
Date. NutiBallate es eee 190 


254 


Deep-Dish Apple Pie .......... 
Demi Cheese Cake Melba ..... 
Derby: Pies ve ae to ke ae 
Dessert Pondue wea hone 
Diet Workshop ‘Rice 

Pudding” 
Easy Chocolate Cherry Bars .. 
Easy Chocolate Frosting ..... 
Easy Elegant Dessert ........ 
Easy Grasshopper Pie ........ 
Heonog: Pie 20 a weatre mec iy 
French: Dessert. vis oan 
Fresh Apple Cake ............ 
“Fresh” Coconut Cake ........ 
Fresh Strawberry Parfait ..... 
Fresh Strawberry Pie ......... 
Frozen Daiquiri Souffle ....... 
Brozen: Popsin i eee ees 
Frozen Strawberry Delight ... 
Fruit Cocktail Cake .......... 
Fruit Pie Dessert...) oe 
Budee Pier ciel Wie nate 
Hudge;Pie Lien a nae 
Fudgy White Frosting ........ 
German Chocolate Pie ........ 
German Chocolate Pound 

Cla Ket ieataicu woke ae, Sires 
Ginger Suvari ute ay uu 
Golden Drop Cakes ........... 
Good: Pound: Cakes) aa 
Graham Cracker Brownies ... 
Graham Cracker Cake ........ 
Graham Cracker Log ......... 
Graham Cream Torte... ....... 
Grasshopper Pie). ii 7 
Harvey Wallbanger Cake ..... 
Heath Bar Cookies. (20 
Holiday Fruit Drops .......... 
Homemade Ice Cream ........ 
Hot:Peach Pudding. ona, 
Tee Crea mie: Gon erie srt Soy Meo anne 
Ice Cream Muffins ........... 
Ice'‘Cream ‘Pies 6.0255 2 ena 
Impossible: Pié¢. 4 a ae 
Iowa Brownies ............... 
Italian Cream Cake) oy 
Jane's Cookies.) 2.07030) wun 
Japanese Fruit Pie ........... 
ace: Cookies () .2iaiace ae 
ace: Cookies! Tw emiitiy we nie 
Lemon Bars i. ius ee aes 
Lemon Cake 07 ie awe 
Lemon: Chess Piel) /.i75 7p 
Lemon Chess Pie II .......... 
Lemon Chiffon Pie ........... 
Igemon Cream’ Pie*10 sa ee 


eoeeeer eo eee ee eee eevee 


Lemon Curd (English recipe) . 
Lemon Ice Cream ............ 
Lemon Meringue Pie ......... 
Lemon Pie Custard ........... 
Lemon Souffle)? 34 oa 
Lemon Sponge, Mrs. W. H. 
Gaither’s) eet ee aeons 
Lemonade Pier 2 ibaa ann 
Light Frozen Dessert ......... 
Lime Sherbet) 20 ee as 
Lindy’s Famous Cheesecake .. 
Louise Cakes) Qig ie ade 
Lucille’s Tea Cakes ........... 
Macaroon Ice Cream ......... 
Mandarin Refrigerator Cake . 
Maple: Bars) Ase ee ue ee 
Meringue Shells .............. 
Metropolitan Apple Pie ....... 
Mile High Ice Cream Pie ..... 
Mile High Strawberry Pie .... 
Miniature Cheese Cakes ...... 
Mincemeat Cake ............. 
Mississippi Mud Cake ........ 
Mocha Chocolate Frosting .... 
Mock Ambrosteniay) syne ee 
Molasses Cookies I ........... 
Molasses Cookies II .......... 
Mother’s Ice Box Cookies ..... 
Mystery Pie seo cue aa ar 
Nestle’s Congo Squares ....... 
New England Whiskey Cake 
Nutty Hangers. ne ones 
Oatmeal Cookies ............. 
Oatmeal Sheet Cake .......... 
Old Fashioned Egg Pie ....... 
Old Fashioned Lemon Custard 
Pie ih Lea ia RRA ee ge sal 
Old Fashioned Sugar Cookies . 
Orange Ballsvae nays ne a 
Orange Chiffon Cake (large) .. 
Orange Chiffon Cake (small) . 
Orange Date Nut Cake ....... 
Orange Fruit Dessert ......... 
Orange Souttle: aa vaya 
Ozark, Pudding jxcitLe eee 
Paper Bag Apple Pie ......... 
Peach Cobblersissa raise aaa, 
Peach Upside Down Cake .... 
Peanut Butter Fingers ........ 
Recan Pie ii 2 ik Memes a cote 
Recan Pieler Cae een a 
Pineapple Coconut Pie ........ 
Pineapple Coffee Cake ........ 
Pineapple Dump Cake ........ 
Pineapple) Pies er pie eae ance) 
Pistachio Cake I 


i} le) Ye! ;9/ ee) Jel le) (6) (e) we) ©) @ 


Pistacnio Cake ll. ee, oo .. 
Wee UCI Ec ie ee iieick ciciscs 
Plum Spice Cake ............. 
Poached Italian Plums 
WIE UIMeENINGUG) fe 8 yak. 
Poppy Seed Supreme Cake .... 
Pr Raia He sal Pe 
PMP RKC ce ee cae cd ds 
PROMO MG ARO Ue ee ee. 
PGI UA RG ee ak 
RABAT Sos cake ea 
TPN IO  io0, 5 cco sielis wc ase 
Quick Luncheon Dessert ...... 
Quick Tipsy Cake ............ 
Raspberry Cream Cheese 
BGP (AKO yk ees bas 
Red Velvet Cake ............. 
Refrigerator Fruit Cake ....... 
PUNO RO i eos eae seca 
PE TERIN PIC ics ee ee es 
Sara’s Elegant Cherry Pie .... 
Scotch Chocolate Cake ....... 
Self-Filled Chocolate 
Cupcakes 
Seven Layer Cookies ......... 
SOc SS a 
Srerry weight .. oo. bo k 
Short Bread, Mavis Bobbitt’s . 
Skillet Pineapple Upside- 
PI AO ie hiv ia sino ie aes « 
Sour Cream Coffee Cake ...... 
Sour Cream Chocolate 
[OS ART a a ea 
Sour Cream Pound Cake ..... 
BuanisniGream 2... 6s... ee. .e. 
Spicy Coffee Cake ............ 
Stained Glass Cookies ........ 
Strawberry Cake ............. 
Strawberry Dessert ........... 
Strawberry Squares .......... 
Bug ar WOOKIER i). Py ate.  y ae 
weet POtaLe Fle its. issues os 
SAN OOKICR 8) ois Os anal 
Toll House Cookies with 
Oatmeal 
oh ES LER geal Fd ie ie ree 
Vanilla Wafer Cake .......... 
Waldorf-Astoria Cake 
Whiskey Cake, New England . 
Wonderful Cherry Pie ........ 
Deviled Chicken Thighs ..... De. 
Deviled Ham Spread ........... 
Deviled Swiss Steak ............ 
Diet Workshop Cheese Ball ..... 
Diet Workshop Orange Baked 
BOER NODS S 1 «ase menace eee 


bi ey mh Abe a ele ee. © 6 Oe OF oy ad a. Te 


255 


Diet Workshop “Rice Pudding” . 171 
Diet Workshop Vegetable Soup . 49 


Dill and'Onion Dip i. sso 18 
Py Bean sil ho, ie wer hal eee 78 
DIP 

ASDEPAgBh EO scoot te ls eas 19 

Clam Hetieeeat wr ay sree ces 19 

Gray sie. ee hoe tae ily imadad as Oo aie 17 

CrabMeat (Hothyo tos 19 

Crab Vegetable ............... 18 

UCUMIDENMIa Oakes ous 23 

COTE Vani we saereioaai en extern Sy Ne Ly 

Dani Onion, sou cre ke et ae 18 

TODSTET ees 2 aire edict uae 17 

refer tech a6 Ei: Aunts APR Me MMi. BURA Ly 

SHIM ps E sek Maas cae aa 17 

Underwood Deviled Ham 

Chafing Dishes a ene. onal 19 

Vegetable ae) i an see 18 
Divan; OhickenGan es yee 165 
DOVE Ae ee ieee eee titers eee st 167 
DRESSINGS 

Blender Green Goddess ....... 105 

Bliie, Cheese ity mies et age. ae 103 

Delightful French ............ 104 

Brenchitina apn ene en 106 

lag tat Bactoeketokd hug: Operas a Mia 103 

Bruitio clad hie eee aan ae eet 106 

Pineapple ni” inser. tomate 57 

PODPY SCO ce enna 3. 103 

Quick Blue Cheese ........... 103 

ROqueLOrietsaa ce es ee aa 106 

Roquefort Cream ............. 104 

RUUD VAIRCUG oa tet pen era Ss ny) 102 

WUISSTAN oa LAC car cone hala ne Seed 105 

SALA Ti ercins blak tees & ees ak 105 

Sweet Ne Spicy as stascmaitn ce 104 

PhousanG Sand. ears 105 

Tomato SOUD. 5 Wak aes oa 104 
“Drumettes”, Chinese Chicken... 7 
Duckling riled ss ge sateen 154 
Duckling, Oven Barbecued ..... 153 
Fie Hs aoe ee ee eane ete cpm niet eas 141 
Easy Chocolate Cherry Bars .... 192 
Easy Chocolate Frosting ....... 221 
Easy Elegant Dessert .......... 174 
Easy Grasshopper Pie ........-- 230 
Easy Homemade Rolls ........- 38 
Easy Meat Balls in Sweet & 

SOULE SAUCE eh orale tee Mein <4 ies Ay 
Kasy Patce: cy tr nme cn las 13 
Eggplant Parmesan ......-.---- 75 
EGGS AND CHEESE 

Baked Eggs .'......--+-.++++-: 35 

Cheese Gloudian esas eiceri ek: 34 

Cheese Pudding .......-----:: 34 







eae Cn Sedu eee eee 


OE SAC DEC SOT at! 


Whale Doce Nels Romie 


iv g ee ener eee eee ee eee 
: nat Mate 
es Souffl oe eee eee 
i { : Fruit Salad Pe rues eueaee 
v. Pope) 0 ier wees 


wasiegele, sigh) > catellenaiens 
Delight ..... 


o) Yervle es ene! 6: 


Se ae 


sa ery teers 


Aoprare Capel 


‘eLiSh.¢ 16\) @' (ete liel ee 


‘o} '@\ ere 


CLC Pera je tel as malian 











aa 


te -2 iran 
a. ao < 
- Ah aera 
¥ | a 
. 
= BS rs 
Pa 


184 
30 
eS 
Of 
68 


62 
62 





- Broccoli 


tele), 01! G18: ON te Ae eer ete Ope Ie 8, 


Ch 


sie shel ee 
RFs bs C Wild Rice Oniog Ringers 
Bean Recipe, Mrs, 


Sc SP aber felagh Soe Parl amie ye ta ae 


aise s 


01/0: 


Broccoli Casserole I Rae 
Broccoli Casserole II 
= 


Gere itis) oat aa 


Curried 6° : Soe Cc 


Bo A I OM 


Sainte 


f ie) ‘sien SEAN ee Beaches sirerr me aan i 


le [sev erse coy ene: 


t.Parmesan: 2". 7-0).> 


Oi OFM IGT OG), OO 16 6 ens ee ae 


i | Cabbage 


Rice Bakes 


Herb ‘Spinach tice Ba 
Het Dickie 


Her Price an Pec ope dericie 


Ven ene: eee at cea 


Masia Gon Geeeenila 


M . 
Old South Sweet Potato 


10) (Ow) 6.8: 


lexi 


CF 185:8 O62. 8. See Le 


Party Noodles (for a crowd) .. 


Pea\Casseroles i754 fer 
Pickled Carrots... eee 


Pineapple Dressing ........... 
Steel 


Prepare Ahead 

Cuick Vogetaie Tec ee 

Be elon 
Sivan Belo tee ae es 
SNS Bab ef lee Re 
Spanish Lima Beans Be ake 
Spiced Pineapple Bits ........ 
Spinach & Artichoke 

Spinach Casserole 00.000... 


oe 


DAS ee ere oe 


Oe ee. | 


Ce 


ag Tees : 


Spinach Souffle ....2.....00.: 
Squash Casserole! ........... 
Squash Casserole II .......... 
Squash Casserole, Pat 
UNPoCCTGy UA Sa 
Squash Casserole with 
USA Or i ee 2s ele} SSG 
Bemeaulias RICE hore eb oe 
String Bean Casserole ........ 
String Beans with Olive Oil .. 
Stuffed Artichoke Hearts ..... 
Sweet ’N Hot Beans .......... 
Sweet Potato Casserole ....... 
Sweet Potato Soufflé I ........ 
Sweet Potato Soufflé II ....... 
Texine’s Okra Cakes 
Uncovered Macaroni 
PCOS Os i 
Wild Rice Casserole .......... 
RIE MRE Ss co evict owe es 
Fruit, Cocktail Cake ...........; 
Preitipie Dessert)... ie. sb 
STE LE od Oe a 
Fruit Punch II 
Fruit Salad Dressing I.......... 
Fruit Salad Dressing II ......... 
Fudge Pie I 
one Goze The! | 8 eae 
PE OTILG) ec oo. Willies ee cee c'e 
Sar 0) CS a 
German Chocolate Pie .......... 
German Chocolate Pound 
Bee kes lies lve sine es 
German Potato SaladI......... 
German Potato Salad II ........ 
Ginger Ale Gelatin Salad ....... 
mee sugar Puffs) is. 626. ee ss 
oO 


eoeoreveeveoevrevre eee eee ve eee ee eee 


eooeeocere ee se eee ee ne ee 


Golden Drop Cakes ............. 
Good Pound Gakew..)...4..5545. 
Ae ES] at 8 RG 0 ea 
Gourmet Meatballs ............. 
Graham Cracker Torte 
Graham Cracker Brownies ..... 
Graham Cracker Cake .......... 
Graham Cracker Log ........... 
Grandmother’s “Hot” Cole 

SUES, 9 WURDE A Re Tepe rg aS 
Grasshopper Pie ................ 
Green Pepper Steak ............ 
Grilled Duckling 
WITACAIMOIG fuk cis ee aie tious 
Ham & Cheese Party 

Sandwich 
Hamburger & Burgundy Wine .. 


eoeoeeceeve ee 


Hamburger Casserole .......... 128 
Hamburger Goulash ............ 127 
Hamburger Skillet Dish ........ 130 
Hamburger Soup ............... 48 
Hamburger Steak Stuffed 

with Blue Cheese ............. LAL 
Hamburger Stroganoff ......... 130 
Harvey Wallbanger Cake ....... 206 
Hawaiian Beans & Franks ..... 134 
Hawaiian Marinating Sauce 

for Steaks & Pork Chops ..... 58 
Heath Bar Cookies ............. 185 
Herb-Buttered French Bread .... 42 
Herb Cheese Bread ............. 42 
Herb Spinach: hy ween 74 
Herbed Spinach-Rice Bake ...... 74 
High-Protein Milkshake for 

Children wad nie nee pl 28 
Holiday Chicken ............... 166 
Holiday Fruit Drops ............ 185 
Tinliday: Peas. Bina ovens bee 29 
Homemade Ice Cream .......... 183 


Homemade Soup (From aCan) . 47 
Hot Apple: Cider: 20. otic. de 30 


Hot Barbecue Sauce ............ 56 
Hot Beef Spread ................ 11 
Hot “Brown” Sandwich ........ 49 
Hot Buttered Rum .............. 27 
Hot. .Clampipey rare tartans 19 
Hot Chocolate Mix ............. 28 
Hot Crab Buns in Foil .......... 50 
Hot Crab Meat Canapes ........ 14 
Hot Dog Appetizer ............. 23 
Hot Dog Casserole ............. 134 
Hot Jalapeno Chicken .......... 157 
Hot Mushroom Turnovers ...... i 
Hot Peach Pudding ............. La 
Hot Pickled Vegetables ......... 65 
Hot Sherried Consommé ........ 52 
Hot Shrimp Salad .............. 102 
Hot Spiced Fruit ............... 62 
Hungarian Beef Casserole ...... 116 
Teal Teatro hee ales 183 
Ice Cream Muffins ............. 196 
icatCrediniele eye eee 236 
ICINGS 

Chocolate Cake ...........--- 223 

COCOUL ALS Se oleae ete 222 
Impossible Pie ...........-++++: 231 
Individual Potatoes ...........- 69 
Iowa Brownies .........--++++«: 195 
Italian Casserole .............+-- 125 
Italian Cream Cake ..........-- 206 
Jane’s Cookies .......-++++++++: 187 
Japanese Fruit Pie ..........--. 231 
Jellied Chicken Salad Loaf ..... 98 




















. 


a \ce)'e level le vesia elie ue) eeemepie 


-Roll-ups Ch east 
Sa : 


fee aienai ve 


cieMelteusineeuete hence 


ou Heshinas Egg Pie . 


Old Fashioned S ) 
Old South Sweet Potato. 







2 = | ee 3 





cbbe.West¥irEsee ober. 


Orange Date Fold-ups .. 
a Orange Date Nut Gunes 
eee Fruit Dessert 


1S @h ie: 


Orange Pinee eee 
Ora nage South eae 


; Vehleteleite 


Ligilei'e a soilless ee} ey 


, Pie (er: 91 28) site) 


tee 
i 





. 
wee 





Oo: 
. 


. 
2 


,o- 
° 


. 
Te: 


Stark Fading RA Gis She 
Poe eC 
Party Cheese Balls ..... 


. 
<2 


. 
° 


oe 
. 


iF 
. 


sine del spe lee rn 


Mock Ambrosia / 
Mock Deviled Crab . ste cb he 


a 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
° 


hie aile gileiiellle (a leila, a 9.05, 


- oe ee ee ee eee 


Sea Dream 


ee ee 


\¢: 


« 


O70 Oy Oe ei: @) 


Ory O10) 20k (Owe Oar ed Oh Te, 


ST SPICE CPHL es 


Cake nn: 


sin site on Sauce 


: : St Lemon Custard 


BOs) OPO Ot CO) OO OA Mp) OT IO Oye) OO Oh Oe) | 6 he fete. 7s) 


35 
187 
187 

92 


Deltas 


126 
96 
94 
92 


\ 


172 


kies . 188 


Party Noodles (for a crowd) 


with Cherry Sauce . ae 


: Pudding") j4sa0 wha eae 
1 Op Faced Ham Surprise 
dwich oeee eee eee ewe er eee 


Reo Rea te eae ° 


70. 





Party Vegetable Sandwiches . 50 
Pat Higdon’s Squash 


PARRETOlG er eS Ne) 83 
mem Waeseroley i oe 81 
Peach Upside Down Cake .... 212 
PesenvCopbler i) 6 eee, 177 
Peanut Butter Fingers ........ 193 
PCO ie bela es: 233 
8 ES a ee 234 
Pepper & Cabbage Salad ..... 96 
Pegree Carrots)... ) es. 65 
Packie SHTIMP 2.0)... ec ee o 14 
Pineapple-Coconut Pie ........ 234 
Pineapple Coffee Cake ........ 202 
Pineapple Dump Cake ........ Bt? 
Pineapple Dressing ........... 63 
PIMCADDIO Pie fs. ieee. 238 
PretacmoiOake ll oe... 66. os. 213 
Peeracnia Cake Tk... 213 
Meee d PUreers )..5 4626.6. ee 122 
Piece CHIcken oo ic ce ees 161 
Peper PANKS sce ek. eee 24 
Piszeeork'Chops .).......... 139 
BPE UGGING ee Seed. 171 
Plum Spice Cake ............. 213 
Poached Italian Plums 

with Meringue ............. 176 
Poppy Seed Dressing ......... 103 
Poppy Seed Supreme Cake .... 213 
PORK 
Baked Breaded Pork Chops ... 138 
Barbecued Pork Loin ......... 135 
Barbecued Spareribs ......... 134 
Bar-B-Que Pork Chops! ...... 137 
Bar-B-Que Pork Chops II ..... 137 
Chicago Sausage Casserole ... 133 
one eR an (RR a 136 
Diet Workshop Orange Baked 

MEMO ODEO ou wae ass asco aee 138 
Masy Pork Chops... .3......3. 136 
Football Casserole ............ 132 
Frankfurter Casserole ........ 134 
Hawaiian Beans & Franks ... 134 
Hot Dog Casserole ........... 134 
izzaPork Chops: i...4 6.66. 139 
Pork Chops-Scalloped Potatoes 

BIIOLEIN Gort eon wake sos 
DER OASO Ako Yiks ikiieuk ire lidie eet 135 
Rice & Pork Chops ........... 136 
Sauerkraut & Sausages ....... 133 
Sausage Casserole ............ 133 
Savory Sausage Casserole .... 132 
Spunky Spareribs ............ 135 
Stuffed Pork Chops ........... 138 


Swiss Turkey-Ham Bake ..... 168 


259 


POT OF GOLD (Celebrity Recipes) 


Chinese Pepper Steak ........ 242 
New York State Flat Apple 
Bice es uneee ch regi fo tat poo 243 

Basque Omelette ............. 244 

Bob Hope’s Lemon Pie ....... 245 

Sea Food Fancy .............. 246 

Hasy Baked Beans ........... 247 
WIOUHROAS EY Ce gio at eile (hues og 1138 
OUNE MAKE uel rem Mii gh 215 
Prepare Ahead Stuffed Baked 

POLB TORS: aie baRiy dC nes care 69 
Prune Cake [ci alae ss Mon gtk 216 
Prune’ Cake ise scok is) Nie am 217 
BuadinuGakeig a: niece») 216 
Pumpkin Bares, «1 ou aie ces 193 
Pumpkin pele ee eee oe ata 235 
Quail, Easley Steamed ......... 153 
Quail, Fried in Electric 

YA PAN oO ate Ges: ae 153 
Quick Blue Cheese Salad 

DYESBIN Gy BN Oe hc esses hak 103 
Quick Clam Chowder ........... 52 
Quick Lasagna i. ch ae 123 
Quick Luncheon Dessert ........ 184 
Quick ’N Easy Corn Relish ..... 84 
Quick ’N Good French Onion 

SOUP eam aa tee ae ee rack cee ic teres 46 
Quick Seafood Newburg ........ 145 
Quick Spaghetti Sauce with 

Beets Gee tae tm We eee alates 56 
Quick Spoon Bread ............. 39 
Quick Tipsy Cake .............. 217 
Quick Vegetable Tricks ......... 83 
Raisin Bran Muffins ........... 44 
Ranch House Cheese 

TE OD PITS eo ete hae ic Sac ble statis 54 
Rare Roast Beef ................ 114 
Raspberry Cream Cheese Coffee 

CA KEV ae mania lala, oman etadan Oe 204 
Raspberry Salad .............-. 90 
Red Velvet Cake ...........-.:. 219 
Refrigerator Fruit Cake ......... 205 
Rice and Pork Chops ..........- 136 
Rice Casserole ............00008- 66 
Rice Soufflé .......... Me tet a 67 
Roquefort Cream Dressing ...... 104 
Roquefort Dressing ........----- 106 
Ruby Red Dressing .......------ 102 
PTAA a eas Saha os ee ae eS 23 
Rum Cakesss cease meee ees ems 220 
Rum Cream Pie ose eis ena 235 
Russian Cream Mold .........-. 90 
Russian Salad Dressing ......-: a 


Russian Tea isc... caves dy ene =: 













} 
; Sooeooeon 


= Walet a ere ckapeve es tele 


AAI Verse ne! eteletotle toneitel 


+a > P 
Aig 


[o T8, 40) ORC i@" 18110) 


F 
eee ee 
A craps oy Atdled orate 
Broo nanece 


Mushroom Salad 
ina Heese er 


) SC We OC a ta eM WR dex Pal Way tT, A CIO) 


Pepper & Cabbage Salad ..... 


aon a 


Mop jeunes epi eutey Sie es \eh.e alhel sepa yeh s) iL 


ELS ae 


pe. 


SOTO 58 USS eee \e-he 107.88 ere. (@) uf 


eSe5 Bas 





: 1 
hate t Wie ay 103 
Tes or 106 


SLESESE 


Cae ial cuoel a He 
mee 105 






92 
ite sen 
DM cccond SelcatT atgu 
Hote phate 


eer eo eee ee ee ee ee eww oo 92 


(Hue es ines aiecrate na Oe 
Strawberr: SSR ALES CNS 91 
i Setharat rial wee eer were oe 91 


Tuna Macaroni Sas 102 
Wonder Green Salad Ras 
PS 


STFOY' C OLAL TOL (O28 568 Cie) CeO 8 


| Barbecue Sauce for Rib’. 


Barbeque: Sauce, en 
Be a te ea Mean 
Bien Bethea es Gatice eae 
Chocolate Saucer) een tere 
TN eR 


1 Se hae 


Sores ghee ane seasaeene 


eeeoeevre eee eee ee 


cree 
aucel cee 
Hawaiian Mae rae 
for Steaks & Pork Mae 
Hot Barbecue Sauce .......... 
Meat Fondue Sauce-Tomato 
Sones te 
Mea ce for Spag eae 
PR ai a eat 


Beef 
ee House Cheese 


Sa ticce ee ee 


Sauceie. ee 

ee Sinem eir eA 
Sauerbraten Pmeienite sarc Ret 115 
Sauerkraut and Sausages ....... 133 
Sausage Casserole .............. 133 


Sausage Cheese Balls .......... 16 
Sausage Twirls:..) o.2.90), ome oT 


Sg 


Sauted Onions 
Savory Baked Potatoes 
Scalloped Tomatoes ............ 
Scotch Chocolate Cake 
SEAFOOD 
MreaeO ISN ee. seeks ec 
Baked Shad 
Baked Seafood Casserole 
MPeUCOISH eels. eco. 
Charles Manor Crab Cakes ... 
Crab or Shrimp Casserole .. 
Crab Delight 
Crab Imperial 
Crab Meat CasseroleI ........ 
Crab Meat Casserole II ....... 
Mer Wiest Pie 20.) 0.650... 
Curried Shrimp Rice 
Casserole 
Deviled Crab 
E’s Fish Stew 
Mock Deviled Crab 
Oyster Casserole 
Quick Seafood Newburg 
Scalloped Oysters 
Scallops Parisienne 
Seafood Casserole 
Shrimp & Crab Casserole ..... 
Shrimp & Rice Casserole 
Shrimp Casserole I 
Shrimp Casserole II 
Shrimp Casserole III 
Shrimp Creole I 
Shrimp Creole II 
Shrimp De Jonghe 
Pemimoau 0. ..s. sess 
Shrimp Stroganoff 
Shrimp Victoria 
Stuffed Bass 
Tomatoes with Seafood 
Dressing 
Tuna Bake with Cheese 
“SOLUTES NU a 
Muna Casserole ..0.2.../..... 
Tuna Noodle Casserole, 
POT KAY Sis rhe ia ele a ve 3 
Tuna & Rice Casserole 
Self-filled Chocolate Cupcakes .. 
Seven Layer Cookies 
piecteaker 2.2. chee, 
Sherry Delight 
Sherry Daiquiris 
Shish Kabob 
Short Bread, Mavis Bobbitt’s ... 
Shrimp Canapes 
Soe aye) Daye d CF Re ea sera 
Shrimp Dip II 
Shrimp Mold 


oe ee ee eve 


oe eo ee oO wo 


tt AO ak eT CS oe eC ae ek Oa a I Pt 


Se ea eine S) 1@) 8) ie) ewe) 8, 6 e's (ee: "6 


BO e116 fe) eee) ele e eee 6 


oe ee ewe wo Hm oO ew 


oo eo eee 


ee ee eee eee ee 


ooo er ec eee ee @ 


oe eee ee eo 


oeove ee ee ove 


eee ee 6 © wD Oo 


eeoeevrew eee ee ee ewe 9 


eeeeeee es ee © we eo wo eB oe oO 


eoeerere eee ee @ 


oor er eee eer ee eee ore 


eee eer eee eee ee eee © oO 


Ce 


Shrimp Mold Spread 
Sicilian Meat Roll 
Burloin Surprises, 
Sirloin Tips Sautéed in Sherry... 
Skillet Pineapple Upside- 

Down Cake 


AGS MO Se 6) Sr 8 ele 6 


SSeS ete) 0610. 8) se) Leniet.e 


ESS OS .O2 OF id te emer ete -eneon)e 


SOUPS AND SANDWICHES 
Clam Chowder! .............. 
Clam Chowder II ............. 
Corn Chowder ...4 ae 
Corned Beef Hash Burgers . 
CYraDsBisgue wale eter ee: 
Cuban Black Bean Soup ...... 
Cucumber Soup 
Diet Workshop Vegetable 

Soup 
French Onion Soup ........... 
Gaspacho 
Ham & Cheese Party 

Sandwiches 
Hamburger Soup 
Homemade Soup (from a can) . 
“Hot Brown” Sandwich 
Hot Crab Buns in Foil ........ 
Hot Sherried Consommé ...... 
New Orleans Shrimp Soup ... 
Open-Faced Ham Surprise 

Sandwiches 
Orange Date Fold-ups 
Party Vegetable Sandwiches . 
Quick Clam Chowder ......... 
Quick ’N Good French Onion 

Soup Au Gratin 

Special Sandwich Spread ....... 

Sour Cream Chocolate Cookies . 

Sour Cream Coffee Cake ........ 

Sour Cream Cornbread 

Sour Cream Enchiladas 

Sour Cream Pound Cake 

South Carolina Red Rice 

Spaghetti Supreme 

Spaghetti with Clam Sauce ..... 

Spanish Gream sain. oie ec ¢ 

Spanish Lima Beans 

Spicy Coffee Cake .............. 

Spinach & Artichoke Casserole . 

Spinach Casserole old RT Area 

Spinach Souffle ..............-. 

Squash Casserole! ............. 

Squash Casserole II 

Squash Casserole with Sausage 

St. Paul’s Rice ..... Pre PRG oe 

Stained Glass Cookies .......... 

Stefado (Greek Stew) 

Strawberry Cake 

Strawberry Dessert ..........--- 


ere ecveeezreescovee 


eore eee ete eee wesc ese eo mevneee 


Sel ee Mat ehie, (Slat 6) Me) oie erteie e@ te 


oeoere oe Oe soe ooaees 


ees eeceoeeeaowv a @ 


ee oF 8 @ 


oeeeo erm eo eee eeeeoeos 


eeerevneve se 6 oo 


eee oer eee 


eecceoene 


oe ee eee 


seo eco eee © oo oO 


eeoeevvueoeesnee 


oeeweoew eae ee @ 


4) abe @ we) © tenet 9 8 





MRSS. SRO AGAIN Teagan  peae 139 
a ae 180 
> Casserole ....... 151 
. 150 
ilo 
PALO2 
ates 


. 


“Seeds ..., with Caraway 
Es°08 white Wine Sauce 

table: Dip rin ghar aera oo li 
pn Stew. ae ate 


ae 
CO 





BNBESN 


or 
ic) 
peat 


re 


° 
o: 
=a rS 


SBSBEER 


ay 





$ a) i F ! 
‘4 * 
. ts) aa i 
¥ 
a 
* 
4 y * af ‘ 
bi i ny is 4 
Poh , (: yt if: 
5 x y 4 
' : ; N 
wy ¥ Oe 
it re ¥ ¢ 
i / \ 
wits nb r i 
‘ v 
; 
ig ; 
r 
t ee 
Ms i 
> i 
“ Fel é 
i ¥. 


*. 


A Rainbow of Recipes 
The Junior Guild Thrift Shop 
164 South Washington Street 
Rocky Mount, North Carolina 27801 


Sendme _________§_+_—s copies of A Rainbow of Recipes at $6.00 plus 
$1.00 tax and handling charge per copy. Enclosed is my check or money 
Reon we cc ye 

Make checks payable to The Junior Guild of Rocky Mount, Inc. 


Please print 
Name 
i errmcrem P er yO A 
nee State Zip 





A Rainbow of Recipes 
The Junior Guild Thrift Shop 
164 South Washington Street 
Rocky Mount, North Carolina 27801 


Send me _____———C———.-s Coie of A Rainbow of Recipes at $6.00 plus 
$1.00 tax and handling charge per copy. Enclosed is my check or money 
8 8) OE Sa oe 

Make checks payable to The Junior Guild of Rocky Mount, Inc. 


Please print 
Name 
Street 
a a Re hee State. ke Zap 


A Rainbow of Recipes 
The Junior Guild Thrift Shop 
164 South Washington Street 
Rocky Mount, North Carolina 27801 


Send me _____————__ copies of A Rainbow of Recipes at $6.00 plus 
$1.00 tax and handling charge per copy. Enclosed is my check or money 
PR EtaLOrey emer nC 

Make checks payable to The Junior Guild of Rocky Mount, Inc. 


Please print 
i een ony uy meine 
SNe ss 28 ae 2 eR SIS Se 


Piiveros tect s oet T 6 State Zip 





264 





NORTH CAROLINA COLLECTION 


Vi iil 


00038197398 





ve 


rs 


sit 


