RALE 

IGH 

Rsc; 

Raleigh,  IL 

c. 

Ch: 

lEE  BOOK 


i-ist  (^hiirch.     Ladle <t. 


^r7' 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 
State  Library  of  North  Carolina 


http://www.archive.org/details/raleighrecipebooOOchri 


a^'Yw. 


VV^ 


x 


;% 


r^'^Mi- 


'■« « 


North  Carolina  State  Library 


Raleigh  Recipe  Book 


Pnhlished  by  the  Ladies  of  Christ  Church 


Presses  of 

Edwards  &  Beoughton  Printing  Company 

RALEIGH 


loA  1.5 


81     PHONE    81 


Checker  Cab  Service 


nnn 
nnn 

□no 
nnn 
□□□ 


I  □□□ 

□nn 
□□n 
nan 
□□n 


Wake  County 
Savings  Bank 

RALEIGH,  N.  C. 

Pays  4%  Interest 

on  your  deposits 
Compounded  Quarterly 


Thos.  H.  Briggs,  President 

W.  B.  Grimes,  Vice-President 

W.  W.  Vass,  Cashier 

Wm.  P.  Little,  Assistant  Cashier 


FOREWORD 


To  add  the  successful  experiences  of  others  to  your 
own  knowledge  of  "cook  room  lore''  often  means  the 
happiness  of  a  well  nourished  family. 

While  no  attempt  has  been  made  to  assemble  menus, 
well  balanced  temj)ting  meals  may  be  selected  from  the 
choice,  proven  recipes  on  the  following  pages.  These 
recipes,  many  of  which  have  been  treasured  for  gen- 
erations, have  been  chosen  with  care  and  will  be  found 
invaluable  in  the  modern  home. 

Particular  attention  is  called  to  the  advertisements 
in  this  book.  Only  those  articles  of  known  purity  are 
mentioned  and  the  use  of  them  in  connection  with  the 
recipes  will  tend  to  insure  successful  preparation,  and 
enhance  the  food  value. 

Tlie  Co-mmittee. 


As  in  a  Fairy  Tale 


70,000  Farmers 
Work  for  You 


Not  even  the  most  fanciful  fairy 
tale  of  our  childhood  days  equals 
the  fascinating  story  back  of  every 
can  of  DAIRYLEA  Brand  Evapo- 
rated Milk  that  you  use. 

As  you  know,  every  thinking 
woman  has  wished  that  all  the  food 
she  serves  her  family  could  come 
direct  from  the  farm. 

And  it  seems  that  70,000  progres- 
sive farmers  heard  that  wish.  For 
they  built  up  the  largest  organiza- 
tion of  its  kind  in  the  world — to 
give  you  a  richer,  creamier  evapo- 
rated milk  direct  from  their  farms. 

That  is  why  DAIRYLEA  contains 
more  nutritious  milk  fats  and 
solids. 

Because  this  immense  business  is 


owned  and  operated  by  farmers 
themselves,  your  DAIRYLEA  Brand 
Evaporated  Milk  will  always  remain 
these  70,000  farmers'  own  product, 
from   cows  they  themselves  own. 

So  when  you  buy  DAIRYLEA 
you  are  buying  direct  from  the  farm- 
ers who  produce  it,  and  eaclti  can 
has  the  comhined  giiarantee  of 
70,000  progressive  farmers. 

DAIRYLEA  Evaporated  Milk  is 
the  concentrated  wholesomeness  of 
the  purest  fresh  bottle  milk,  and  is 
produced  in  New  York  State  where 
milk  laws  are  most  stringent.  It 
is  exactly  the  same  milk  which  U. 
S.  Senator  Copeland,  when  Health 
Commissioner  of  New  York  City, 
called  "the  best  in  the  world." 


Richer 
Creamier 


Convince 
Yourself 


A  NEW  STANDARD  FOR  EVAPORATED  MILK  QUALITY 


SOUPS 

TOMATO  SOUP 

The  contents  of  one  large  can  of  tomatoes  put  into  a  stew  pan  with 
as  much  boiling  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  take  off  and  strain ;  put 
over  fire  again.  In  a  small  pan  put  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  of  butter, 
one  of  sugar,  half  an  onion  and  a  sprig  of  parsley ;  chop  all  together  and 
let  it  brown,  but  be  careful  not  to  burn;  turn  this  into  the  tomatoes,  mix 
thoroughly  and  strain.     Serve  with  squares  of  toast  on  top. 

Mrs.  John  Ward. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP 

Cut  6  good  sized  potatoes  and  boil  in  1  quart  of  water  with  a  bay  leaf 
and  salt.  Mash  through  a  colander;  add  large  tablespoon  butter,  little 
salt  and  pepper ;  boil  1  quart  of  milk  and  add  to  potatoes ;  keep  hot  in 
double  boiler.     Celery  can  be  cut  up  and  a  little  butter  added  and  put 

in  tureen  and  soup  poured  over  it  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Benehax  Camerox. 

IMITATION  OF  CALVES  HEAD  SOUP 

(Mrs.  Peter  H.  Mayo,  Kichmond,  Va.) 
Soak  1  pint  of  black  beans  for  several  hours  or  all  night.  Next  morn- 
ing pour  off  this  w^ater  and  put  214  quarts  of  cold  water  on  beans  with 
a  slice  of  salt  pork  or  middling.  Let  this  boil  luitil  the  beans  are  soft 
enough  to  press  through  a  colander.  After  straining,  put  back  on  the 
fire  and  season  with  red  and  black  pepper,  salt  and  Worcestershire 
sauce,  also  walnut  catsup  if  you  have  it.  Just  before  serving,  put  in 
tureen  slices  of  lemon  and  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings. 

Mrs.  Benehan  Cameron. 

ONION  SOUP 

Put  into  saucepan  butter  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg.  When  very  hot  add 
two  or  three  large  onions  sliced  thin,  stir  and  cook  them  well  until  they 
are  red ;  then  add  a  full  half  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Stir  this  also  until 
it  is  red,  watching  it  constantly  so  that  it  does  not  burn.  ,  Pour  in  about 

5 


a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  add  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  well  and  let  it 
boil  a  minute,  then  pour  into  the  soup  kettle  and  place  at  the  back  of 
the  stove  until  almost  ready  to  serve.  Add  then  l^/o  pints  or  1  quart  of 
boiling  milk  and  two  or  three  boiled  well  mashed  potatoes.  Add  to  the 
potatoes  a  little  of  the  soup  at  first  then  more  until  they  are  smooth  and 
thin  enough  to  put  into  the  kettle.  Stir  all  well  and  smoothly  together, 
taste  to  see  if  the  soup  is  properly  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  as  it 
requires  plenty,  especially  the  latter.  Let  it  simmer  a  few  minutes  and 
serve  with  toast  squares.  The  soup  is  improved  by  using  stock  instead 
of  water  in  making. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Vass. 
VEGETABLE  SOUP 

At  breakfast  time  (about  8  o'clock)  I  put  a  large  (5  pound)  beef 
shank  in  a  pot  with  6  quarts  of  water.  Let  it  boil  until  11  o'clock  then 
skim  off  all  the  greese  and  if  shank  is  thoroughly  done  take  up  and  put 
aside.  Add  the  vegetables  which  have  been  prepared  and  chopped  and 
cook  until  dinner  time.  I  often  leave  shank  in  pot  to  boil  until  just 
before  I  take  up  soup,  when  I  thicken  with  a  little  parched  flour.  I  use 
the  following  quantity  of  vegetables. 

1  quart  can  tomatoes  1  bunch  of  vegetable  herbs 

3  or  four  pieces  of  macaroni  1  can  okra 

(broken  up  fine)  A  very  small  hard  cabbage 

3  Irish  potatoes 

In  the  summer  use  corn  and  fresh  vegetables. 

Mrs.  Armistead  Jones. 

AMBER  SOUP   OR  CONSOMME 

(From  Mrs.  John  Devereux's  Written  Recipe  Book) 

Soup  bone  (2  pounds)  1  small  parsnip 

1  medium  sized  chicken  V2  stalk  celery 

1  small  slice  of  ham  3  cloves 

1  onion.  pepper 

2  sprigs  of  parsley  salt 

1  small  carrot  1  gallon  of  cold  water 

Boil  beef,  chicken  and  ham  slowly  for  five  hours;  add  the  vegetables 
and  cloves  and  cook  one  hour,  having  first  fried  the  onion  in  a  little 
bacon  fat.     Strain  the  soup  into  an  earthen  bowl  and  let  stand  over 

6 


night.  In  the  morning  remove  the  cake  of  fat  from  top,  take  out  the 
jelly,  being  carefnl  to  avoid  the  settlings,  and  mix  into  it  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs  with  the  shells.  Boil  quickly  for  half  a  minute,  then 
skim  off  carefully  all  the  scum  and  whites  of  the  eggs  from  the  top. 
Strain  soup  through  jelly  bag,  when  it  should  be  quite  clear.  The  soup 
may  then  be  set  aside  and  reheated  just  before  serving.  Serve  with 
slice  of  lemon  in  each  plate. 

Mrs.  John  W.  Hixsdale. 

TOMATO  BISQUE 

1  quart  rich  milk  1  bay  leaf 

1  pint  can  of  tomatoes  or  1  blade  mace 

1  pint  stewed  fresh  tomatoes  Sprig  parsley 

1  large  tablespoon  butter  Vi  teaspoon  soda 

3  large  tablespoons  flour 

Put  tomatoes  in  saucepan,  with  ba.y  lea",  mace  and  parsley  and  cook 
15  minutes.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler;  rub  butter  and  flour  together, 
add  to  milk  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Press  tomatoes  through  sieve 
fine  enough  to  remove  seeds.  Put  them  into  soup  tureen,  add  soda,  then 
pour  on  quickly  the  scalding  hot  milk,  serve  immediately. 

This  soup  must  not  be  returned  to  the  fire  after  the  milk  and  tomatoes 
are  mixed,  or  they  will  separate. 

"Favorite  Recipes,"  Louisville,  Ky. 

OYSTER  SOUP 

-   '  ~  (Virginia  Recipe) 

1  qt.  oysters,  dry  measure,  2  qts  of  water,  1  stick  mace.  Let  boil  20 
minutes.  1  pt  milk,  let  boil  slowly  with  i/4  lb  butter,  add  1  tablespoon 
liour.  When  ready  to  serve  beat  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs  separ- 
ately, then  combine  and  pour  the  soup  slowly  over  the  well  beaten  eggs 
so  as  not  to  curdle.     Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Rufus  Hunter. 


Hot  Buttered  Biscuits 


Nothing  better  to  tempt 
the  appetite  when  made 
light  and  airy  with 


CRUSADER 


^  OF 

HIGHEST  GIIADE 

FOR 

PEOPLE  WHO  CARE 

'^SK  YOOR  agocea 
5TER1INGMULS.INC. 

STATESVIUE,  N.C. 


SERVICE 


SELF  RAISINQ 


018TRIBUTC0  BY 


Capital  Feed  &  Grocery  Company 


'Be  sure  you  get  it  because 
we  know  you    are  among 

''THOSE 

WHO 

CARE'' 


FOR   SALE   BY   ANY   GROCER 


BREAD 

BREAD  MAKING 
Mrs.  Jane  S.  McKimmon 

To  make  good  bread  one  should  have  good  flour  and  fresh  yeast. 
These  are  not  all  the  things  necessary  but  they  are  two  very  important 
ones. 

If  5'ou  are  using  soft  wheat  flour,  which  by  the  way  can  be  made  into 
excellent  bread  as  well  as  biscuits,  you  must  know  that  a  rather  stiff 
dough  is  necessary  for  the  best  results.  If  you  are  using  hard  wheat 
flour  a  softer  dough  is  required. 

Yeast  should  be  tested  before  using.  Have  ready  a  cupful  of  luke 
warm  water  into  which  you  have  poured  a  level  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
break  into  this  your  cake  of  Fleishman's  yeast  and  if  the  particles  rise 
to  the  top  in  from  three  to  five  minutes  the  yeast  may  be  considered 
fresh  and  ready  for  use. 

Pour  this  mixture  into  a  bowl  and  add  enough  sifted  flour  to  make 
a  batter.  If  eggs  are  to  be  used  as  in  tea  rolls  they  should  be  broken 
into  the  batter  and  thoroughly  mixed.  This  is  the  time  also  to  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  mashed  Irish  potato  if  a  particularly  light  dough  is 
desired.  Beat  the  batter  and  add  flour  until  the  dough  is  of  the  right 
consistency,  Knead  thoroughly  to  mix  ingredients  and  to  incorporate 
as  much  air  as  possible  in  the  dough.  Thorough  kneading  makes  a  bread 
of  flne  grain. 

Put  dough  in  warm  place  to  rise.  A  closet  or  corner  free  from 
draught  and  where  there  is  an  even  temperature  around  eighty  degrees. 
AVhen  dough  is  double  in  bulk  make  into  loaves  or  rolls  kneading 
lightly.  Do  not  add  flour  at  this  second  kneading  or  you  will  have  a 
poor  product.  Just  enough  flour  on  the  board  to  prevent  the  dough 
from  sticking  is  sufficient. 

Place  rolls  or  bread  in  pans  and  set  away  for  the  last  rising.  Bake 
and  cool  on  wire  rack. 

LIQUID  OR  POTATO  YEAST 

Boil  eight  medium  sized  Irish  potatoes,  peel  and  mash  them  until 
there  are  no  lumps.     Add  one  quart  of  luke  warm  water,  one-half  cup 


of  sugar,  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and  a  cake  of  compressed,  dry, 
or  other  good  yeast.  Put  this  mixture  in  a  bowl,  cover  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  (85  degrees  to  90  degrees)  for  tive  hours.  At  the  end  of  that  time 
pour  into  quart  jars  and  screw  down  the  tops  but  use  no  rubbers,  keep 
in  a  cold  place  (a  refrigerator  if  possible)  and  use  when  it  is  twenty- 
four  hours  old. 

One  cup  of  this  yeast  will  raise  one  quart  of  flour  very  quickly.  If 
there  is  time  to  spare,  one-half  cup  will  answer  the  purpose. 

The  mixture  should  be  shaken  before  it  is  used  that  the  potato  may 
be  evenly  distributed. 

When  making  a  second  quantity  of  yeast  use  a  cup  of  the  old  yeast 
as  a  starter  instead  of  the  dry  or  compressed  yeast. 

Mes.  Jane  S.  McKimmon. 

MILK  ROLLS 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  on  the  stove  and  just  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  level.  One  tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Set  this  aside,  until  milk  warm.  Have  one  pint  flour  sifted  in  mixing 
bowl  and  beat  the  cooled  milk  into  this.  Then  add  one  cake  yeast  which 
has  been  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  of  warm  water.  Then  beat  in  one 
quart  flour.  This  makes  a  soft  dough,  set  this  aside  to  rise  for  four 
hours.  Put  on  board  and  roll  about  one-half  inch  thick  and  cut  with 
biscuit  cutter  and  place  in  well  greased  pans  not  letting  them  touch.  Set 
to  rise  for  one  and  one-half  or  two  hours  according  to  weather.  Bake 
quickly. 

Mrs.  B.  W.  Baker. 
Mrs.  John  Andrews. 
ROLLS  FOR  TEA 

One  cup  liquid  yeast  Two   tablespooniuls   lard   or 

One-half  cup  milk  scalded  and  butter 

cooled,  or  one-half  cup  water  One  level  teaspoon  salt 

One  tablespoonful  sugar  North  Carolina  flour 

Pour  the  yeast  into  a  bowl,  add  milk,  sugar,  and  lard  or  butter,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Beat  until  smooth  then  the  salt 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  dough  may  be  added.  Knead 
thoroughly.  Place  in  a  greased  bowl,  cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
until  it  is  light  (a  little  more  than  double  in  bulk).  Knead  lightly. 
Roll  dough  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  grease  top  of  circles  thus  cut 

10 


and  fold  for  pocketbook  rolls.     Place  in  a  pan,  cover  and  let  rise  until 
light.    Bake  and  rub  tops  with  butter  after  taking  from  oven. 

If  eggs  are  plentiful  these  rolls  are  much  improved  by  the  addition 
of  an  unbeaten  egg  to  the  mixture  when  it  is  in  batter  form. 

Mrs.  J.\.\e  S.  McKimmox. 


ROLLS 

Boil  2  medium  sized  Irish  potatoes,  peel  in  about  3  cups  of  water,  when 
cooked  well  take  out  and  run  potatoes  through  a  ricer.  Put  about  two 
cups  or  a  little  less  of  the  water  in  potatoes  and  put  aside  to  get  cold, 
then  take  1  quart  of  Crusader  flour  and  put  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and 
^2  tablespoon  of  salt  in  it,  then  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  lard  worked 
into  it.  Take  %  cake  of  yeast  and  dissolve  in  %  cup  lukewarm  water. 
Make  hole  in  flour  and  pour  potatoes  and  j^east  into  it,  with  1  beaten 
egg.  Knead  well  until  light  and  the  dough  is  smooth.  You  can  add 
either  a  little  flour  or  warm  water  as  needed.  Put  aAvay  in  a  warm  place 
until  it  rises  twice  its  bulk.  Pour  out  on  board,  but  do  not  knead  a 
second  time.  Break  off  and  mould  and  put  into  gem  pans  to  rise,  then 
bake  hy  putting  in  cold  gas  oven  and  lighting  gas.  It  takes  about  30 
minutes  from  the  time  you  put  in  oven.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter 
before  taking  out. 

Mrs.  Carl  A.  Woodruff. 

POTATO  ROLLS 

1  yeast  cake  .      y2  teaspoon  salt 
%  cup  mashed  Irish  potatoes  Yo  cup  butter 

3  cups  flour  2  eggs 

%  cup  sugar 

Put  the  butter  in  hot  mashed  potatoes  to  melt  it.  Dissolve  yeast  cake 
in  1/)  cup  luke  warm  water  in  which  potatoes  were  boiled,  add  the  Y2 
cup  sugar,  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Put  these  ingredients  into  the  three  cups 
of  flour,  sifted  with  the  %  teaspoon  salt  and  work  the  dough  until 
smooth  and  satiny. 

If  for  supper  make  up  dough  at  noon.  Let  rise  until  very  light.  Then 
roll  out,  cut  and  shape  into  pocket  book  rolls.  Brush  with  melted  lard 
before  folding.     Let  rise  again  and  bake  slowly  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  T.  H.  Briggs. 
11 


LADY  ROLLS 

1  quart  flour  1  spoonful  white  sugar 

1  spoonful  of  butter  1  cup  of  yeast  (well  risen) 

1  egg  1/4  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Add  milk  and  water  sufficient  to  make  pliable  dough.  Set  your  rolls 
to  rise  over  night,  make  them  out  quite  early  in  the  morning,  in  round 
balls,  and  then  roll  them  on  the  table  to  an  oval  form ;  cover  them  to 
rise  again  till  half  an  hour  before  breakfast,  then  bake  them  in  a  slow 
oven  to  a  light  brown  color. 

Set  a  dish  cover  over  them  for  ten  minutes  to  make  the  crust  soft,  if 
3''ou  prefer  it  so. 

Do  not  leave  them  in  the  oven  a  moment  after  they  are  done,  or  they 
will  become  hard  and  crusty. 

Mrs,  Annie  Mason  Beockenbrough. 

SALLY  LUNN   (1871) 

One  3'east  cake,  1  quart  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoon 

salt,  1  large  spoon  shortening.    Mix  all,  but  salt,  in  a  batter;  let  stand 

until  it  has  bubbled.    Then  work  in  the  salt  and  pint  of  flour.    Let  rise 

in  a  bowl  of  warm  water.     If  for  tea,  at  four  o'clock  add  to  the  risen 

dough  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  tablespoon  butter,  work  well 

with  hand,  then  pour  in  well  greased  pan,  rise  for  two  hours,  bake  in 

moderate  oven  for  an  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  a.  Montgomery. 

MRS.  JOHN  D.  HAWKINS'  RECIPE  FOR  SALLY  LUNN 

2  oz.  butter  1  teaspoon  sugar 

2  oz.  lard  3  eggs  (or  2  if  scarce) 

1  qt.  flour  %  yeast  cake 

Enough  milk  to  have  the  batter  drop  from  the  spoon,  not  run. 

Cream  the  butter  and  lard  with  the  spoonful  sugar,  beat  eggs  sepa- 
rately, mix  yolks  with  sugar  and  shortening,  add  flour  and  yeast  dis- 
solved in  the  milk.     Then  fold  in  the  egg  whites  and  put  to  rise,  when 

double  size  put  into  pan  for  second  rising. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  McGee. 


12 


SALLY  LUNN 

1  pint  flour  1  pint  milk  and  water  mixed 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  powder 
Butter  size  of  an  egg  1  light  teaspoon  salt 

Mrs.  Alfred  Williams. 

DINNER  CORN  BREAD 

7  tablespoons  meal  1  egg 

Yo  pint  sweet  milk  ,  1  large  tablespoon  melted  lard 

1  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  i^  teaspoon  salt 

Powder  .  . 

Mix  meal  and  milk  and  beat  well,  add  egg,  etc.,  and  lastly  baking 
powder.  Bake  quickly  in  biscuit  pan  and  cut  in  squares  or  bake  in 
bread  stick  pans. 

Mrs.  O.  Steadmaj^  Thompson. 


(GRANDMA'S  EGG  BREAD  (Old  Fashion) 

1  quart  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  pint  water  ground  meal  2  eggs 

1  tablespoonful  butter 

Beat  eggs  very  light ;  boil  milk  and  add  meal  and  salt,  stir  until  per- 
fectly smooth ;  then  add  other  ingredients  and  stir  well.  Pour  into  pan 
and  brown. 

Miss  Susan  McPheeters. 

BATTER  BREAD  (Large  Pan) 

One-half  loaf  cold  bread  cut  in  slices  without  crust  and  soaked  15  min- 
utes or  1/2  hour  in  milk  or  water.  Into  this  break  -i  eggs  and  beat  all 
well,  then  sift  into  it  1  cup  corn  meal,  IV2  pints  milk,  salt,  a  little  short- 
ening and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Bake  in  quite  a 
hot  oven  about  30  minutes  and  serve  quickly  before  it  falls.    Very  good. 

Mrs.  Benehan  Cameron. 
13 


BATTER  CAKES 

Make  a  batter  of  1  quart  each  of  Crusader  flour  and  sour  milk,  3  eggs 
beaten  separately,  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  level  teaspoons  of  soda. 
Pulverize  the  soda  very  fine  before  measuring  then  thoroughly  mix 
with  the  flour.    Add  whites  of  eggs  ju>st  before  baking  on  griddle. 

Sweet  milk  may  be  used  (with  the  other  ingredients  in  same  quan- 
tity) with  Royal  Baking  Powder. 

Mrs.   B.   T.   Cowper. 
BUCKWHEAT  CAKES 

%  yeast  cake  1  teaspoon  of  Royal  Baking 

1  cup  luke  warm  water  Powder 

1  pint  Buckwheat  flour  2  tablespoons  of  molasses 

1  egg  (whole)  1  cup  sweet  milk 

Dissolve  one-half  yeast  cake  in  the  one  cup  of  luke  warm  water.  Add 
this  to  the  one  pint  of  buckwheat  flour  and  stir  lightly  till  well  mixed. 
Cover  and  set  aside  to  rise  over  night  in  an  earthen  crock.  In  the 
morning  add  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  of  molas- 
ses, one  whole  egg  and  one  cup  of  sweet  milk :  mix  well  and  pour  froin 
a  pitcher  and  fry  on  a  hot  griddle  slightly  greased  with  lard. 

Mrs.  Ashby  Lee  Baker. 

FLANNEL  CAKES 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  cups  Crusader  flour 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  teaspoon  Royal  Baking 

2  eggs  Powder 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together  to  a  cream,  add  beaten  eggs  then  flour 
into  which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Add  cinnamon  to  flavor  and 
enough  milk  to  make  a  good  paste. 

Mrs.  C.  G.  Latta. 

I        OLD  COMPANY  MILL        \ 

I  Best  Water^round  ! 

i  CORN     MEAL  | 

!  (Unbolted)  j 

j  AT  YOUR  GROCERS  | 

14 


FLOUR  MUFFINS 

1  quart  sifted  flour  1  teaspoon  Royal  Baking 

Y2  cup  butter  Powder 

1  pint  sweet  milk  I/2    teaspoon    each    of    salt    and 

3  eggs  beaten  separately  sugar 

To  sifted  flour  add  melted  butter,  milk,  salt,  sugar,  yellow  of  eggs  and 
baking  powder.  Last  of  all  fold  in  white  of  egg.  Bake  in  very  hot  oven 
in  small  greased  muffin  rings. 

Mrs.  Graham  H.  Andrews. 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS 

1  cake  yeast  4  tablespoons  lard  or  butter 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  pint  luke  warm  water  3  cups  sifted  Crusader  flour. 

Mix  lard,  salt,  sugar,  with  flour,  then  add  yeast  dissolved  in  the  water. 
Knead  well  and  put  in  greased  bowl  to  rise.  When  double  the 
bulk  make  out  like  biscuits,  put  on  a  greased  paper  to  rise.  Let  rise 
about  11/^  or  2  hours.  Cook  on  hot  griddle  about  20  minutes.  After  one 
side  is  cooked,  turn  over  the  other,  or  maybe  put  in  old  fashioned  muffin 
rings. 

Mrs.  Carl  A.  Woodruff. 

RISEN  MUFFINS 

3  pints  flour  I/2  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed 

2  tablespoons  sugar  II/2  pints  milk 
11/2  teaspoons  salt  i^  yeast  cake 

4  eggs  ,     . 

Make  them  up  for  the  first  time,  allowing  six  or  seven  hours  to  rise, 
about  an  hour  before  they  are  to  be  cooked,  put  in  muffin  pans  and  when 
risen  enough,  bake. 

Mrs.  Albert  L.  Cox. 

OWENDAW  MUFFIN 

(A  very  old  Recipe  from  Hillsboro,  N.  C.) 

2  cups  hot  grits  4  eggs  beaten  separately 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  pint  of  milk 

%  pint  of  meal 

15 


Batter  to  be  consistency  of  boiled  custard.     Cook  three-quarters  of  an 

hour. 

Mrs.  Alfred  Thompson. 

SALLY  LUNN  MUFFINS 

li/o  pints  flour  2  eggs. 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter  i^^  teaspoon  salt 

%  yeast  cake  Sweet  milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

About  12  o'clock  dissolve  %  yeast  cake  with  the  tablespoon  of  sugar 
in  a  little  hike  warm  water.  Sift  the  flour  with  the  salt,  work  in  the 
butter,  then  add  the  two  well  beaten  eggs  and  enough  rich  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter.  Beat  well  and  let  rise.  An  hour  be- 
fore supper  beat  the  batter  again  and  pour  into  gem  muffin  rings,  filling 
them  about  half  full.    Let  rise  again.    Bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  T.  H.  Briggs. 

POPOVERS 

2  cups  Crusader  flour  3  eggs 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  3  cups  milk 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Sift  salt  in  flour,  then  break  eggs  in  flour.  Stir  in  milk  and  add 
melted  butter.  Grease  and  warm  muffin  rings.  Cook  for  twenty-five 
minutes. 


Mrs.  R.  B.  Raney. 


BEATEN  BISCUIT 


1  quart  of  Crusader  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  tablespoon  lard  %  cup  cold  water 

Beat  until  it  blisters,  roll  and  cut.  This  dough  may  be  run  through 
a  biscuit  machine  or  meat  chopper. 

Mrs.  Alfred  Williams. 

SOUTHERN  BISCUITS 

To  one  quart  of  flour  add  a  small  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  the  dough  with  water,  as  stiti'  as  possible,  and 
knead  it  with  the  hands  till  pliable  and  smooth,  continue  to  knead  it 

16 


f^^rih  Caro'iina  State  LibiSE^ 


till  it  pops  with  every  pressure  of  the  hand.  This  is  the  test  of  its 
lightness.  Then  make  balls  of  the  dough  about  the  size  of  an  egg  (or 
smaller),  flatten  them  on  the  board  with  the  rolling  pin,  prick  them  in 
the  center  with  a  fork  and  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven.  When  the  edges 
are  hard  they  are  done,  otherwise  do  not  take  them  from  the  oven,  or 
they  will  be  undone  and  unwholesome. 

MrS'.   Axxte    Masox    BROCKEXBRoron. 

CREAM  PUFFING 

1  cup  meal  1  tablespoon  butter 

iy2  cups  cooked  hominy  3  eggs 

1  cup  milk  1     heaping     tablespoon     Ko3'al 

^2  cup  boiling  water  Baking  Powder 

Put  into  bowl  the  butter,  salt,  meal,  hominy  and  milk;  mash  fine  and 
after  beating  a  few  minutes,  stir  in  hot  water,  then  add  eggs  and  yeast 
powder  and  beat  well.     Bake  in  shallow  pans. 

Miss  Susan  McPheeters. 

NUT  BREAD 

6  cups  Crusader  flour  1  teaspoon  ul  salt 

11/2  cups  sugar  li/^  cups  chopped  walnut  meats 

6  tablespoons  Royal  Baking  3  cups  milk 

Powder  2  eggs 

Mix  in  order  given,  put  in  pans  and  let  rise  half  an  hour.  Bake  one 
hour.    This  quantity  makes  three  loaves. 

Mrs.  Joseph   Blount  Cheshire. 

NUT  BREAD 

314  cups  sifted  Crusader  flour  1  cup  sweet  milk 

114  cups  chopped  black  walnuts  2  eggs  beaten  separately 

2/3  cup  sugar  3   teaspoons   Royal   Baking 
1^0  teaspoons  salt  Powder 

Mix  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar,  then  add  whites  beaten  stiff,  then  milk. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  into  this.  Last  of  all  add  nuts.  Bake 
in  slow  oven  about  one-half  hour. 

Mr.s.   Richard  S.   Bisbee. 
17 


GRIDDLE  BREAD 

(Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Snow's  Recipe  Book) 

1  quart  of  flour  1  teaspoon  Royal  Baking 

1  teaspoonful  salt  Powder 

1  tablespoonful  Snow  Drift  1  cup  milk 

Knead  and  roll  out.  Stick  with  a  fork.  Bake  in  round  pan  twenty 
minutes,  then  split  in  half,  butter  well,  serve  hot,  cut  in  slices  like  pie. 

Mks.  Adelaide  Boylston. 

BROWN  BREAD 

1  pint  white  flour  1  tablespoon  of  lard  or  any  pre- 

1  pint  brown  flour  (unsifted)  pared  shortening 

1  cake  yeast  dissolved  in  i/o  cup  2  tablespoons  of  old  fashioned 

warm  water  with  black  molasses 

1  tablespoon  sugar  14  pint  warm  water 
Salt 

Mix  in  order  given  and  after  it  rises  work  over  with  brown  flour, 
shape  into  rolls  or  a  loaf,  and  when  it  rises  sufficiently,  bake. 

Mks.  William  S.  West. 

BUTTERMILK  BISCUIT 

One  quart  Crusader  flour,  shortening  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful 
Royal  Baking  Powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  mix  with  buttermilk, 
making  soft  dough,  cut  out  biscuits  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This 
makes  delicious  buttermilk  biscuits. 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Yost. 

DATE  LOAF 

i  eggs  beaten  separately  Pinch  of  salt 

2  cups  Crusader  flour  IVo  lbs  or  2  packages  dates 
1  cup  sugar  chopped 

5  tablespoons  sweet  milk  i/4  pound  shelled  pecans 

21/2  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Flavor  with  Virginia  Dare  Va- 

Powder  nilla  Extract 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  add  flour,  baking  powder  and  milk. 
Then  add  dates,  which  have  been  rolled  in  some  of  the  flour  mentioned, 

18 


and  nuts,   pinch  of  salt   and  beaten  whites   added   last.     Flavor  with 
vanilla.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  T.  Adams. 

CHEESE  STRAWS  I 

1  pound  of  cheese  ground  Red  pepper  to  season 

2  cups  of  sifted  flour  Butter  size  of  an  egg   (it  may 
1  teaspoon  of  salt  take  more) 

Melt  butter.  Mix  cheese,  flour,  salt  and  red  pepper.  Keep  rubbing 
between  hands  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  fine.  Pour  melted  butter  in 
and  continue  to  mix  well.  Have  moist,  roll  out  and  cut  in  strips.  Cook 
in  a  quick  oven.  •       ■ 

Mrs.  Huhert  Haywood.  Jr. 


CHEESE  STRAWS  II 

1/4  lb  cheese,  grated  1,4  teaspoon  caj'enne  pepper  (to 

1/4  lb  butter,  melted  taste) 

2  eggs  (well  beaten  together)  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  cream 

Enough  flour  to  make  into  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  well.  I  use 
Pineapple  cheese  when  I  can  get  it. 

Mrs.  Van  B.  Moore. 

CREAM  SCONES 

Two  cups  of  flour  and  three  teaspoonsful  of  Royal  Baking  Powder  and 
a  pinch  of  salt  are  sifted  together,  two  ounces  of  butter  are  worked  into 
the  flour  and  mixed  to  a  soft  dough  with  half  a  cupful  of  cream  and 
half  a  cupful  of  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  The  dough  is  then 
turned  on  to  a  floured  board  and  rolled  out  one-cpiarter  inch  thick ;  cut 
out  with  a  round  cutter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 
The  tops  are  brushed  over  with  milk  and  butter  and  they  are  put  back 
in  the  oven  to  finish  cooking.  They  are  delicious  when  toasted  in  halves 
and  served  hot. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  F.  Montague. 

19 


MAMMY'S  WAFFLES 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  qt.  sifted  Crusader  flour  1  pint  of  sweet  milk 

2  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  I/2  cup  of  melted  lard 
Powder 

Beat  the  two  eggs  well  together  and  add  to  them  the  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  sifted  together,  then  add  the  one  pint  of  milk  and  beat 
again  till  well  mixed,  and  lastly  add  the  one-half  cup  of  melted  lard. 
Cook  in  waftle  irons  till  golden  brown  and  crisp. 

Mrs.  Ashby  Lee  Baker. 

WAFFLES 

1  qt.  sifted  flour  1  teaspoon  Royal  Baking 
1  qt.  sweet  milk  Powder 

1  cup  melted  butter  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and 

3  eggs  sugar 

Put  sifted  flour,  butter  and  milk  together.  Beat  eggs  separately,  add 
yellows  of  eggs  to  batter,  also  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder.  Fold  in 
beaten  whites.     Cook  in  hot  greased  waffle  irons. 

Mrs.  Graham  H.  Andrews. 

FRITTERS 

2  eggs  (beat  separately)  2  cups  Crusader  flour 

Yo  pint  milk  1  heaping  teaspoon  Royal  Bak- 

1  teaspoon  salt  ing  Powder 

Fry  in  boiling  lard  and  serve  with  boiled  molasses  or  syrup,  with  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  it. 

Mrs.  Armistead  Jones. 

CRACKERS  OR  THIN  BREAD 

1  pint  Crusader  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

2V2  tablespoons  lard 

Make  stiff  dough,  roll  very  thin,  cut  and  stick  with  fork.    Spread  with 

cheese  or  anchovy,  or  serve  plain. 

Mrs.  Gavin  Dortch. 
20 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 

One  quart  Crusader  flour,  shortening  size  of  an  egg,  three  rounded 
teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Make  a  soft 
dough  with  sweet  milk  or  water.  Knead  as  little  as  possible,  cut  out 
with  the  usual  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mks.  Wm.  a.  Yost. 

SUGAR  BREAD 

1  cup  liquid  yeast  2  eggs  unbeaten 

1/2  cup  milk  scalded  and  cooled  1  level  teaspoonful  salt 

Yo  cup  sugar  North  Carolina  flour 
1/4  cup  lard  or  butter 

]\Iake  a  sponge  of  the  yeast,  milk  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft 
batter,  beat  until  smooth,  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place  until 
light.  Have  sugar  and  lard  Avell  creamed,  add  this  to  the  light  sponge 
and  beat  in  two  eggs.  Add  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  very  short 
dough.  Knead  lightly,  roll  out  or  s]n-ead  in  pans  to  the  thickness  of 
one-half  inch. 

Make  deep  depressions  over  the  top  with  floured  knife,  sprinkle 
thickly  Avith  bits  of  butter  and  brown  sugar.  Dust  with  cinnamon  and 
set  away  to  rise.    When  light,  bake. 

Mr.s.   Jane    S.    McKimmox. 


21 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 

FISH  PUDDING 

1  pint  minced  fish  14  teaspoonful  onion  juice 

V2  cupful  cream  or  milk  2  eggs 

iy2  teaspoonfuls  butter  Salt 

%  tablespoont'ul  flour  Pepper 

An}'  large  fish  can  be  used;  steam  or  boil  it.  Remove  all  bones  and 
skin.  (Tuna  fish  is  a  very  good  substitute  and  convenient).  To  this 
minced  fish  add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  onion  juice.  Put  the  butter  into 
a  sauce  pan,  when  melted  add  the  flour  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
add  slowly  the  cream  or  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  well  scalded, 
then  add  the  minced  fish.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Butter  well  a  ring  mould,  put  in  the  mixture,  pressing 
it  well  against  the  sides  to  remove  any  air  bubbles.  Cover  the  mould  with 
greased  paper  and  place  in  a  pan  of  warm  water,  covering  one-half  the 
mould.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  thirty  minutes,  but  do  not 
let  the  water  boil.  Turn  the  mold  of  fish  on  a  large  platter,  fill  tbe 
center  with  boiled  potato  balls  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley.  Serve 
this  with  Hollondaise  Sauce  poured  around  the  fish. 

Three  times  this  quantity  fills  a  large  ring  mould  and  will  serve  ten 
or  twelve  people. 

Miss  Susan  McPheeters. 
Mrs.  Williaji  Bailey. 

BAKED  HALIBUT 

Three  pounds  halibut  boiled,  bones  and  skin  removed.  Add  a  rich 
cream  dressing  flavored  with  teaspoon  of  onion  juice.  Put  into  buttered 
mould  and  bake  in  pan  of  hot  water  for  about  half  an  hour,  or  until 
firm. 

Shape  potato  balls  and  boil  until  done.    Remove  fish  from  mould  and 

pile  potato  balls  in  hollowed  out  center.     Pour  over  whole  a  rich  cream 

dressing  to  which  has  been  added  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  grated,  and 

serve  with  rings  of  lemon. 

Mrs.  Harold  V.  Joslix. 
22 


PLANKED  SHAD 

Have  backbone  removed.  Place  the  shad  skin  side  down  after  sprink- 
ling with  a  small  quantity  of  meal  to  keep  from  sticking.  Have  ready 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  mix  with  a  little  red  pepper  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Baste  with  this  constantly,  use  more  butter  if  nec- 
essary. Cook  in  a  moderate  oven.  Use  carrots  and  white  potatoes  cut 
in  balls  and  arrange  like  cannon  balls  around  the  plank.  Cut  a  lemon 
in  slices,  chop  parsley  verj^  fine  and  sprinkle  over  the  fish.  Decorate  the 
outside  of  the  plank  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  McGee. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG 

2  cans  lobster  or  1  teacup  sherry  wine,  or  Vir- 

2  fresh  lobsters  ginia  Dare  Sherry  Tell 

2  teacups  cream  Red  pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

2  tablespoons  butter  Yolks  of  2  eggs 
2  teaspoons  Crusader  flour 
rubbed  smooth  into  butter 

Boil  lobster  and  cream  together  until  tender,  add  flour  and  butter 
and  stir  until  smooth.    Then  add  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  lastly  the  wine. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

Drain  liquor  from  1  quart  of  oysters  and  carefully  remove  all  bits 
of  shell.  Butter  a  deep  dish  or  pan,  cover  the  bottom  with  stale  bread 
crumbs'.  Put  in  a  layer  ef  oysters,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
plenty  of  butter.  Repeat  this  until  the  dish  is  full,  finishing  with  bread 
crumbs  and  butter.  Pour  over  the  whole  half  and  half  oyster  liquor 
and  milk,  being  careful  to  use  just  enough  to  moisten  the  mixture  suffi- 
ciently without  making  it  too  soupy.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS 

Strain  the  liquor  and  boil  with  a  little  salt,  red  pepper  and  mace. 

While  boiling  put  in  the  oysters,  let  them  boil  until  plump,  take  out 

and  put  in  a. jar.     Pour  into  the  liquor  a  pint  of  good  vinegar  to  two 

quart  of  oysters.     Let  the  vinegar  and  liquor  boil,  then  pour  on  the 

oysters.     Serve  when  cold. 

Mrs.  W.  a.  Erwin. 
23 


STEWED  OYSTERS  No.  1 

Pour  liquor  irom  one  quart  of  oysters  into  sauce  pan.  Let  come  to  a 
boil,  drop  in  well  washed  and  drained  oysters.  When  gills  begin  to 
curl  add  ^4  pint  of  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Have  butter 
size  of  an  egg  melted  and  pour  into  oysters. 

Mks.  Alfred  Williams. 

STEWED  OYSTERS  No.  2 

1  quart  oysters  1  cup  grated  stale  bread  crumbs 

1  pint  milk  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Wash  oysters  thoroughly.  Put  oysters  and  butter  on  stove  until  they 
begin  to  boil,  add  cold  milk  and  bread  crumbs  and  cook  for  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  often. 

Mrs.  Allen  G.  Rogers. 

OYSTER  COCKTAILS 

Put  into  a  champagne  tumbler  2  tablespoons  of  catsup,  1  tablespoon 

chili  sauce,   1   teaspoon  lemon  juice,    1  teaspoon  vinegar,    V2   teaspoon 

grated  horseradish,  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  3  drops  of  tabasco 

sauce,  salt  to  taste  and  enough  oysters  to  fill  the  glass.     Crushed  ice 

on  top. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Weight. 


24 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 

RULES  FOR  COOKING  MEATS  xVXD  FOWLS 

In  cooking  meats  and  fowls  of  all  kinds  my  first  step  is  to  squeeze 
over  them  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  then  with  a  spatula  I  spread  over 
the  surface  bacon  grease,  then  brown  all  over  quickly  to  close  the  pores 
and  keep  in  the  juices.  I  then  add  salt  and  put  meat  into  a  baking  pan 
with  about  l^/o  pints  of  boiling  water  into  which  have  been  put  a  small 
quantity  of  pepper,  marjoram,  savory  seasoning  and  onion.  For  fowls 
I  add  poultry  seasoning,  a  little  sage  and  a  little  more  onion.  Never  salt 
meat  until  pores  are  closed. 

-  '  .  Mrs.  W.  T.  McGee. 

A  RECIPE  FOR  COOKING  A  HAM 

Let  the  ham  soak  all  night  skin  side  uppermost.  To  boil,  put  in  cold 
water,  skin  side  down.  Count  time  for  cooking  a^ter  it  comes  to  the 
boiling  point.  For  a  thick  ham  allow  25  minutes  to  the  pound.  Keep 
the  water  just  at  the  boiling  point,  never  allow  it  to  boil  hard,  only  an 
occasional  bubble.  Leave  in  the  water  until  the  next  morning,  then 
take  out,  skin,  remove  the  loose  bone,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  that  have 
been  lightly  toasted,  and  run  in  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown 
thoroughly.    When  cold  put  in  refrigerator  to  become  firm. 

MkvS.  Alfhed  Thompson. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

Take  the  bone  from  a  round  of  beef,  fill  the  space  with  a  forcement 
made  of  the  crumbs  of  a  stale  loaf,  four  ounces  of  marrow,  two  heads 
of  garlic  chopped  with  thyme  and  parsley,  some  nutmeg,  cloves,  pepper 
and  salt,  mix  to  a  paste  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten.  Make  deep 
incisions  in  the  lean  part  of  the  bee£  and  stuff  with  the  above  mixture. 
Make  balls  of  the  remainder.  Sew  a  band  of  strong  white  cloth  wide 
enough  to  keep  it  round  and  compact,  put  in  a  vessel  jiLst  sufficiently 
large  to  hold  it,  add  a  pint  of  water  and  bake  for  three  hours ;  when  done 
skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  thicken  it  with  brown  flour,  add  finely 
chopped  mushrooms,  flavor  with  walnut  catsup,  and  serve  garnished 
with  parsley  and  the  forcemeat  balls  fried. 

Mrs.  Joiix  W.  Hinsdale. 
25 


«... 


14  East 

Morgan  Street 

Phone  605 


Payne  's 


B.  F.  PAYNE 

Proprietor 


MARKET 


OUR  MEATS  ARE  DELIVERED  BY  REFRIGFRAIED  MOTORCYCLE 
NO  GERMS  NO  DUST 


Silver  Sets 

STERLING  AND  PLATE  WARE 

We  carry  at  all  times  a  complete  stock  of  silver 

ware  in  many  different  patterns,  and  at  prices  that 

are  very  reasonable.  Complete  Sets  or  Single  pieces 

WE  WILL  BE  GLAD  TO  SHOW  YOU  OUR 

STOCK  AND  HELP  YOU  SELECT 


JEWELER 

AND 

OPTOMETRIST 


Royster's 

RALEIGH,  N.  C. 

The  Oldest  Candy  in  the  South 


Home  Building  and  Loan 
Association 

128-130  South  Salisbury  Street 

RALEIGH,  N.  C. 

V.  O.  PARKER,  President  GILBERT  T.  STEPHENSON.  Vice-Pres. 

MANLY  C.  BRITT,  Sec.-Treas. 


26 


BREADED  VEAL  CUTLETS 

Select  one  inch  thick  cutlets.  Beat  slightly  with  steak  hammer.  Cut 
with  scissors  in  shape  of  miniature  hams.  Lay  on  dish  and  cover  with 
well  beaten  whole  egg  for  a  minute  or  two.  Turn  over  in  crumbs  (two 
parts  rolled  crackers  and  one  part  each  flour  and  corn  meal)  well  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  black  pepper.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  equal  parts  butter 
and  snow  drift.  Garnish  with  lemon  and  parsle3^  Serve  with  Lea  & 
Perrin's  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Beknakd. 

MRS.  JAS.  BOYLAN'S  BEEF  LOAF 

3  lbs  round  steak  1  tablespoon  chopped  green 
I/O  lb  ham  fat   (or  1  cup  bacon  pepper 

fat)  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 

1  egg  sauce 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion  Salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste 

Make  into  two  loaves,  sprinkle  each  with  bread  crumbs.  Lay  on  each 
loaf  a  slice  of  bacon.  Pour  over  all  one  can  of  tomato  soup.  Fill  pan 
half  full  of  water,  baste  and  cook  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Claiborne  Carr,  Durham,  N.  C. 

HOG'S  HEAD  CHEESE 

Take  one  hog's  head  and  four  feet.  Clean  and  soak  well,  then  put  in 
a  granite  pot  and  boil  until  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done.  Remove  from 
pot  and  work  the  meat  all  together  very  fine,  season  with  salt,  black 
and  red  pepper  then  put  in  a  dish  to  mould. 

Take  the  liquor  and  small  pieces  of  meat  not  used  in  the  cheese  and 
pour  over  it  a  quart  of  buckwheat  flour,  or  meal,  let  it  cook,  put  in  a  pan 
to  mould,  slice,  fry  and  serve. 

Mrs.  He.xry  R.  Bryax,  New  Bern,  N.  C. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW  No.   1 

5  quarts  water  V2  pint  butter  beans 

4  slices  bacon  2  young  chickens 

1  onion  Sifted  bread  crumbs 

2  quarts  peeled  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper. 

4  or  5  ears  of  corn  Worcestershire  sauce 

5  large  potatoes 

27 


About  four  hours  before  dinner  put  into  the  soup  pot  the  water, 
bacon  and  sliced  onion,  let  the  water  boil  for  an  hour,  then  put  in  the 
tomatoes,  the  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  the  potatoes  cut  up  and  the  butter 
beans,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  again  and  add  the  chickens  cut  into  pieces. 
Suffer  it  to  cook  until  the  chicken  drops  from  the  bone  \i  take  out  the 
bones  and  skin,  thicken  with  the  bread  crumbs,  then  season  with  the 
salt,  pepper  and  sauce. 

Mrs.   Benjamin   P.  Montague. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW  No.  2 

1  hen  1  pint  butter  beans 

6  tomatoes  (or  one  can)  2  large  onions 

6  Irish  potatoes 

Put  all  in  kettle  of  water  and  boil  about  two  hours.  Just  twenty  min- 
utes before  serving  cut  off  six  ears  of  tender  corn,  add  to  the  mixture 
with  four  tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter  and 
two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Mrs.  Murray  Allen. 

TO  COOK  A  TURKEY 

In  cooking  turkey  stuff'  it  with  a  dressing  made  of  corn  bread  made  by 
adding  to  a  pint  of  meal  a  large  rounded  kitchen  spoonful  of  lard  and 
season  with  black  pepper.  Bake  thin,  remove  the  crust,  crumble  and  put 
with  a  vspoon  in  the  fowl  so  as  not  to  pack  and  to  be  crumbled  when 
taken  out.  The  neck,  feet,  liver  and  gizzard  should  be  put  on  with  a  pint 
of  water  and  seasoning  of  salt.  Cook  slowly  for  an  hour  or  more  with 
the  seasoning  as  for  meats.  This  is  used  for  grav}'  in  the  baking.  The 
time  for  baking  the  turkey  depends  upon  size  of  fowl  and  amount  of 
gas  pressure  Never  add  salt  to  any  fowl  until  meat  is  browned.  When 
fowl  is  about  half  done  place  on  it  four  thin  slices  of  bacon  ior  the  flavor. 

Serve  with  the  following  cranberry  sauce : 

One  quart  berries,  one  pint  cold  water. 

Cover  closely  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Strain  to  get  out  the  husks,  then 
add  one  pint  of  white  sugar.  Stew  about  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  begins 
to  jell.    Be  sure  to  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon.    Pour  into  mould. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  McGee. 

28 


STEWED  CHICKEN 

1  spring  chicken  3  green  peppers 

1  tablespoon  bntter  1  sprig  of  parsley 

1  tablespoonfiil  Crusader  flour  ^  o  pint  consomme  or  boiling 
3  large  tomatoes  or  ^^  can  water 

2  onions  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces  at  joints,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter  into  a  stew  pan  and  when  it  melts  add 
the  chicken.  I^et  this  brown  slowly.  Add  the  onions  sliced.  Add  two 
tablespoon 'uls  of  flour  and  let  it  brown,  then  add  the  tomatoes  chopped 
fine.  Cook  very  slowly,  allowing  the  mixture  to  simmer  over  a  slow 
fire.  Slice  the  green  peppers  fine,  add  one-half  pint  oi:'  consomme  or 
boiling  water.  Stir  occasionally.  Simmer  for  one  hour.  Before  serv- 
ing put  in  one  can  of  mushrooms. 

Mrs.  Platt  D.  Walker. 

DRY  CHICKEN  DRESSING 

Bread  crumbs  Pepper 

Butter  Celery 

Salt 

Brown  the  bread  and  grate  into  crumbs ;  sesason  with  a  little  butter, 
salt,  pepper  and  the  celery  chopped  fine.  Mix  well  together  and  stuff 
the  fowl  at  baking  time. 

Mr,s.   Ashby   Lee  Baker. 

TURKEY   DRESSING 

1  pone  corn  bread  1  large  onion      .  • 

%  loaf  baker's  bread  Parslej^ 

Mix  all  together  with  liquor  from  turkey,  fried  brown. 

Mrs.  a.  M.  Maupix. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING  No.  1 

Two  medium  sized  chickens,  boil  until  tender  and  cut  in  pieces.  Make 
cream  sauce  of  thin  cream  and  add  chicken,  1  can  of  pimentoes,  2  fresh 
green  peppers  cut  in  small  pieces,  2  cans  small  mushrooms,  1  cup  of 
sherry  wine,  or  Virginia  Dare  Sherrj'  Tell.  In  ramekins  this  quantity 
will  serve  25  people. 

Mrs.  V.  E'.  Turner. 
29 


C 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING  No.  2 

Have  the  chicken  boil  long  and  slowly,  so  that  while  it  is  tender, 
there  is  some  taste  left  in  the  meat.  Let  cool  in  the  water.  It  is  im- 
proved if  a  small  onion,  a  bay  leaf,  a  red  pepper  pod  and  salt  are  added- 
to  the  water  when  the  chicken  is  put  in.     Cut  up  fine. 

To  each  quart  of  chopped  meat  add  three  chopped  pimentoes,  three 
chopped  green  peppers  and  a  small  can  of  mushrooms. 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonsful 
of  oil  from  the  top  of  the  stock,  (should  the  chicken  be  poor  and  the 
stock  have  no  oil  in  it,  use  more  butter),  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Cru- 
sader flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  stock,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
milk,  salt,  pepper  and  celery  seed  to  taste.  Let  cook  until  quite  thick, 
then  turn  the  chicken  mixture  into  it  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  One  or  two 
hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  up  and  added,  improve  the  flavor.  Just  be- 
fore turning  into  the  dish  add  one  well  beaten  egg,  but  do  not  allow 
to  curdle. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Blouxt  Cheshire. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN 

For  twelve  persons:  A  pair  of  ducks  and  one  pound  of  calf's  liver 
will  be  required.  Put  ducks  and  liver  into  a  kettle  together,  add  two 
cloves  of  garlic,  one  small  onion,  two  stalks  of  celery,  four  cloves.  Cover 
with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  AVhen  cold  cut  both 
into  dice.  At  serving  time  mash  the  yolks  of  six  hard  boiled  eggs  to  a 
smooth  paste,  adding  gradually  half  pint  of  cream.  Put  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter  into  a  sauce  pan,  add  tablespoon  of  flour,  mix  and 
add  cream  and  egg.  Stir  constantly  until  it  reaches  boiling  point,  add 
haK  cup  of  milk  and  bring  again  to  a  boil,  then  add  meat,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  little  white  pepper  and  a  suspicion  of  mace. 
Serve  hot.  (A  good  way  to  prepare  the  kind  of  wild  duck  that  lives  on 
fish.) 

Mrs.  Ed.  Chambers  Smith. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  QUEEN 

1  pint  cold  chicken  chopped  fine      ^/^  cup  stock  or  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  butter  1/4  nutmeg  grated 

2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  Salt  and  pepper 

30 


Put  butter  in  pan,  melt  and  add  bread  crumbs  and  stock,  stir  until 
it  boils.  Take  from  tire  and  add  chicken,  parsley,  nutmeg,  salt  and 
pepper,  then  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Fill  custard  cups  and  put  in  a  baking 
pan  half  filled  with  boiling  water.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  20  minutes. 
Turn  out  carefulh^  on  heated  dish  and  pour  around  the  following  sauce : 

Bechamel  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  gill  cream 

1  gill  stock  1  egg  yolk 

2  dashes  of  pepper  1  teaspoon  salt 
1  tablespoon  flour 

Mrs.  R.  D.  W.  Coxnor,  Chapel  Hill,  N.  C. 

CHICKEN  PIE 

1  spring  chicken  Butter 

1  slice  of  fat  salt  pork  Water 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  Pastry 

Cut  chicken  in  pieces  as  for  frying,  put  in  deep  biscuit  pan,  with  but- 
ter size  of  walnut,  pork,  salt  and  black  pepper  and  water.  Cook  until 
tender,  then  cut  pastry  into  small  squares  and  add  to  the  gravy  and 
cook  about  15  minutes  before  covering  the  top  of  pan  with  pastry  rolled 
thin.  Brown  in  hot  oven.  Add  the  top  crust  just  before  serving.  When 
done,  lift  off  top  crust,  put  chicken,  gravy  and  soft  pastry  in  dish  and 
put  top  crust  on.  Be  sure  to  keep  water  added  so  that  there  will  be 
plenty  of  gravy. 

Mrs.  S.  J.  Hinsdale,  Burlington,  N.  C. 

I 

SPICED  BEEF 

Make  a  strong  brine,  about  one  quart  of  salt  to  one  gallon  of  water. 

To  this  add  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  whole  cloves, 

two  tablespoons  allspice,  three  tablespoons  whole  black  pepper,  a  small 

piece  of  saltpetre.    Put  in  your  beef  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  two 

or  three  weeks,  turning  it  over  every  day.     Keep  a  weight  on  the  meat 

to  keep  it  under  the  brine.     This  will  cover  fifteen  or  twenty  pounds 

of  beef. 

Mrs.  Van  B.  Moore. 

31    , 


CHICKEN   CROQUETTES 

1,  4-lb.  chicken  run  through  meat      1  small  spoonful  of  cloves 
chopper  1  good  sprig  of  parsley 

1  can  mushrooms   (or  1  lb  of 
sweet  breads) 

Boil  the  chicken  with  onion,  parsley  and  cloves.  When  cold  run 
through  meat  chopper  and  add  can  of  mushrooms  chopped  fine.  Make 
a  cream  dressing  of 

1  pint  milk  Vo  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  large  tablespoon  butter  and  2  Chopped  parsley  and  pepper  to 

oi:'  flour  creamed  together  taste 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  add  season- 
ing. When  done  add  to  chicken  and  mushrooms,  stirring  and  mixing 
thoroughly.  Put  away  to  cool.  When  cold  form  into  cone  shaped  cro- 
quettes and  dip  first  in  egg,  then  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Serve  with  a  cream  sauce  made  of 

1  tablespoon  flour  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  pint  milk  1  can  mushrooms  chopped  fine 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Put  the  mushrooms  in  after  the  sauce  is  made  and  do  not  cook  them, 
just  heat.  Yeal,  sweetbreads  and  brain  croquettes  are  made  the  same 
way. 

Mrs.  Akmistead  Jones. 

STEWED  BEEF  TONGUE 

Get  a  fresh  tongue,  wash  it  nicely  and  put  on  to  parboil ;  when  suffi- 
ciently done,  take  it  off  and  skin  it.  It  will  take  about  four  hours  to 
parboil.  Keep  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Rub  the  tongue  with 
salt,  pepper,  allspice,  ginger  and  a  little  mace.  Then  put  it  on  to  stew 
with  just  enough  of  the  water  that  it  was  boiled  in  to  cover  it,  dust- 
ing a  little  flour  over  it.  Throw  in  a  large  handful  of  seeded  raisins  and 
a  few  allspice  and  Avhole  pepper  corns.  Let  it  stew  slowly  between  three 
and  four  hours.  About  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  add  a  half  teacup  of 
brown   sugar  and  one  lemon  sliced.     A  few  minutes  before  removing 

32 


from  fire  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vineg-ar.     Serve  with  the  grav;^'  and  gar- 
nish, with  lemon,  raisins  and  parsley. 

Mrs.  John  W.  Hinsdale. 

BACON  AND  EGGS 

Fry  crisp  one  dozen  thin  slices  of  bacon ;  set  the  pan  of  grease  that 
has  exuded  at  the  side  of  the  range  while  yon  chop  bacon  fine.  Have 
ready  a  thick  tomato  sauce — about  one  cupful— and  stir  into  this  the 
minced  bacon  and  two  minced  green  peppers,  w^hich  have  been  freed 
from  seed  and  membrane  and  parboiled.  Spread  this  on  rounds  of  toast 
that  have  been  buttered  and  placed  in  oven  while  you  fry  in  the  bacon 
fat  an  egg  for  each  slice.    Transfer  egg  to  toast  and  serve. 

Mrs.  John  Ward. 

HOW  TO  STUFF  A  HAM 

Scrape,  wash  and  soak  for  24  hours  a  North  Carolina  ham.  Put  it 
in  water  to  more  than  cover  and  boil  gently  until  well  done.  Remove 
from  boiler  and  lay  w^th  skin  side  down.  When  almost  cold,  with  a 
carving  fork  find  out  the  direction  of  the  bone.  Cut  with  a  sharp  knife 
all  along  the  bone,  it  can  then  be  easily  removed,  leaving  a  clean  hole, 
which  must  be  filled  with  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  a  little  bro^vll  sugar 
and  black  pepper  to  taste,  but  no  salt.  Press  the  ham  closely  together, 
put  in  a  stove  pan  which  will  just  hold  it.  Take  off  the  skin  and  cover 
ham  with  some  of  the  stuffing.  Brown  in  the  oven.  As  soon  as  it  is  cold, 
place  it  in  the  refrigerator  to  become  thoroughly  chilled,  before  slicing. 

Mrs.  John  W.  Hinsdale. 


33 


Geo.  Marsh  Company 

3] 0-12-14-16  South  Harrington  Street 
RALEIGH,  N.  C. 


Specializwg  in  Fine  Quality  Canned  Fruits 
and  J^egetables 

Try  our 
BLOOMSBURY  and  MANSION  HOUSE  Brands 


Cascade  Laundry  Co. 

415  South  McDowell  Street 
Phone  2495 


DAMP  WASH 

Everything  washed  hi 
mild  suds,  and  rinsed 
in  eiglit  to  ten  changes 
of  water.  The  excess 
water  is  removed  and 
the  bundle  is  returned 
damp,  sweet  and  clean, 
ready  to  iron  and  liang 
up  to  dry. 

5g  Pound 

Minimum  75c 


THRIF-T-WASH 

Everything  carefully 
washed  and  thoroughly 
rinsed  in  eight  or  ten 
changes  of  water — the 
excess  water  is  remov- 
ed. All  flat  work  is 
ironed.  Other  work  is 
returned  damp,  ready 
for    starcliing. 

6g  pound 

Minimum  90c 


FLOAT  IRONED  SERVICE 

A  low-priced  ironed 
service.  Every  tiling 
washed.  Flat  w  o  r  k 
ironed.  Wearing  ap- 
parel ironed  unstarch- 
ed and  70  per  cent  fin- 
ished. Articles  like 
shirts,  waists  and 
house-dresses  will  re- 
quire some  re-ironing 
at  home. 

8g  POUND 

Minimum  $1. 


34 


VEGETABLES 

GENERAL  RULES  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES 

Wash  thoroughly;  pare,  peel  or  scrape  according  to  the  kind.  Let 
them  stand  in  cold  water  nntil  ready  to  cook,  to  keep  them  crisp,  to 
freshen  them  when  wilted,  or  to  keep  them  from  turning  dark.  Cook 
in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  keep  the  water  boiling.  Al- 
low one  teaspoon  of  salt  to  one  quart  of  water.  Salt  may  be  added 
when  vegetables  are  put  in,  except  in  the  case  of  delicate  green  vegetables, 
as  peas,  spinach,  etc.,  when  it  should  not  be  added  until  nearly  done. 
To  preserve  the  color  cook  green  vegetables  uncovered. 

Mrs.  John  Ward. 

TO   COOK   TURNIP   SALAD 

Wash  well ;  place  in  a  vessel  of  salted  water  and  boil  until  tender. 
At  the  same  time  have  another  vessel  of  water  l)oiling  with  a  piece  of 
bacon  sufficient  to  season  the  salad.  When  the  salad  is  tender  take  from 
the  boiling  water  and  place  in  the  vessel  with  the  meat  and  let  boil 
until  well  seasoned  and  then  serve.  Boiling  it  first  in  the  salted  water 
takes  out  the  bitter  taste  that  so  many  dislike.  If  the  salad  has  large 
stems  in  the  leaves,  remove  the  stems  with  a  sharp  knife  and  cook  only 
the  leaves. 

-  Mrs.  John  Ward. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

Grate  the  corn  from  six  ears,  add  one  teaspoonful  flour,  one  egg, 
pepper  and  salt.    Beat  all  into  a  batter,  fry  in  lard  or  butter. 

Mary  Anderson  Page. 

BAKED  POTATO  AND  PINEAPPLE 

Cream  the  sweet  potato  as  you  would  Irish,  only  use  sugar  to  taste. 
A  layer  of  potato  then  a  layer  of  pineapple.  The  pineapple  should  be 
the  last  layer.    Put  in  stove  and  heat  thoroughly. 

Mrs.    W.   a.   Erwin. 

STUFFED  BAKED  TOMATOES 

Cut  off  stem  end  of  tomatoes,  scoop  out  with  a  spoon  and  stuff  with 
stale  bread  crumbs,  grated  h,am  and  the  tomato  scooped  out  mixed  to- 

35 


gether  with  mayonnaise  dressing.    Sprinkle  the  tops  with  bread  crumbs 
and  a  little  sugar,  with  a  teaspoon  of  butter  on  each  one.    Then  bake. 

Mrs.  Alfred  M.  Maupin. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS  No.   1 

1  lb  raw  beef  Shallow  teaspoon  of  grated 

1  cup  mashed  Irish  potatoes  onion 

As  much  bread  crumbs  as  beef  Tomato  sauce 
in  quantity 

Put  one  quart  of  tomatoes  in  saucepan  with  one  teaspoon  celery  seed 
and  small  lump  of  butter.  When  sauce  is  cooked  and  strained,  add 
half  of  it  to  the  beef,  crumbs,  potatoes,  etc.  Stuff  peppers  (cut  in  half 
and  boiled  until  tender)  and  bake.  Serve  in  dish  with  the  remainder  of 
the  tomato  sauce  poured  over  them. 

Mrs.  S.  F.  Telfair. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS  No.  2 

Parboil  peppers  for  fifteen  minutes.  Fill  with  grated  cold  ham  and 
cooked  rice.     Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion.     Cook  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  a.  Erwin. 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS 

Slice  large  mild  onions  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  two  hours,  pour 
this  off,  cover  with  salted  water  and  cook  until  tender,  changing  the 
water  if  the  onions  are  strong.  Drain  and  put  in  baking  dish  a  layer 
of  the  onions,  salt,  pepper,  bits  of  butter,  and  bread  crumbs  till  the  dish 
is  full,  pour  over  this  milk  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  brown  and  thor- 
oughly done. 

Mrs.  William  S.  West. 

IRISH  POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 

One-half  dozen  medium  size  Irish  potatoes  (boiled  and  cut  into  cubes) 
Make  a  cream  sauce  of  i/o  cup  of  milk,  two  tablespoons  butter,  1  salt 
spoon  of  salt,  a  little  black  pepper  and  a  little  grated  cheese.    Put  layer 
of  potatoes  and  sauce  into  baking  dish  until  full,  pouring  the  last  sauce 
over  the  top  and  bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.   S.  p.  Telfair. 
36 


SURPRISE  BALLS 

From  cold  mashed  potatoes  make  slig'htlj"  flattened  balls ;  with  a  tea- 
spoon press  a  hollow  in  the  top.  Chop  fine  some  cold,  lean  meat,  season 
it  with  salt  and  pepper  and  gravy  and  put  one  teaspoon  of  the  meat  into 
the  hollow  of  the  potato  ball.  Put  a  little  melted  butter  on  top  and 
brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  John  Ward. 

POTATO  CROQUETS 

1  pint  hot  mashed  Irish  potatoes  %  teaspoon  celery-salt 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1/2  saltspoon  white  pepper  Yolk  of  one  egg 

14  teaspoon  salt  Speck  of  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  all  together  (except  egg)  and  beat  until  light,  when  slightly  cool 
add  beaten  egg  yolk.    Shape,  dip  in  egg  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  William  S.  West. 

MUSHROOMS 

1  lb  mushrooms  14  pint  cream 

%  lb  butter  Salt  to  taste 

Peel  mushrooms,  put  them  in  butter  in  chafing  dish,  not  over  hot 
water,  and  let  them  cook  in  their  own  juice  until  soft.  Watch  them 
carefully,  but  do  not  stir.  Add  a  little  pinch  of  salt  and  the  y^  pint 
of  cream  and  let  them  remain  on  the  fire  until  the  cream  is  hot.  Serve 
on  rounds  of  toast.    This  quantity  will  serve  six  people. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Wixslow,  Boston,  Mass. 


GUMBO 

1  quart  okra  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  quart  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  small  onion  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cut  up  okra,  tomatoes  and  onion  in  small  pieces,  add  seasoning  and 
put  in  saucepan.  Cook  slowly.  This  is  an  excellent  vegetable  to  serve 
with  fried  chicken 

Mrs.  Graham  H.  Andrews. 

37 


STUFFED  EGGPLANT 

Boil  eggplant  15  minutes  in  salted  water.  Cut  otit:  top  and  remove 
pulp  with  a  spoon,  being  careful  not  to  cut  in  too  close  to  the  skin. 
Chop  piilp  and  add  soft  stale  bread  crumbs.  Cook  i/4  tablespoon  of 
finely  chopped  onion  and  about  2  tablespoons  of  butter  together  for 
about  five  minutes,  adding  three  slices  of  finely  mashed  crisply  fried 
bacon.  Add  this  to  the  chopped  pulp  and  breadcrumbs,  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper.  If  too  stiff  add  a  little  milk.  Cook  for  a  few 
minutes,  cool  and  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg  well  beaten.  Put  this  mixture 
in  eggplant,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  oven  for 
about  twenty-five  minutes.     The  oven  should  be  quite  hot 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Winfree. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  WHITE  SAUCE 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  and  put  the  cauliflower  into  well  salted 
boiling  water.  Be  careful  to  take  it  out  as  soon  as  tender  to  prevent  it 
dropping  to  pieces.  Make  in  a  saucepan  or  double  boiler  a  white  sauce 
as  follows :  Put  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg  into  the  pan  and  when  it 
begins  to  bubble  stir  in  a  scant  half  teacup  of  flour  which  has  been 
sifted,  stir  well  until  cooked,  then  add  two  teacups  of  thin  cream,  some 
pepper  and  salt.  Stir  until  perfectly  smooth.  Pour  over  the  cauli 
flower  and  serve. 

Mrs.  H.  V.  Josltn. 


88 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 

Salad  King  Dressing  may  be  used  wherever  mayonnaise  is  called  for 
in  the  folowing  recipes.  .'.   ■  .     '■      ■  . 

JELLIED   SALAD 

1  small  can  pimentoes  Juice  of  one  lemon  '    • 
-V2  bottle  tiny  pickled  onions            1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  celery  1  pint  boiling  water 
1  evelope  Chalmer's  Gelatine 

Cut  up  celery  and  pimentoes.  Pour  boiling  water  over  sugar  and 
when  cool  add  dissolved  gelatine,  celery,  pimentoes,  onions  and  lemon 
juice.    Pour  into  wet  moulds.    This  quantity  makes  nine  moulds. 

Mks.  Hexry  M.  Wilson. 

DETROIT  LETTUCE  DRESSING 

I/O    pint    bottle    Gordan   &    Dil-      Tobasco,  salt,  paprika 

worth's  tomato  catsup  1  teaspoon  AVorcestershire  sauce 

14  lt»  Roquefort  cheese  Juice  %  lemon 

Mash  cheese  very  fine,  add  to  catsup,  then  tobasco,  salt  and  paprika 
to  taste.  This  dressing  should  be  quite  hot.  Add  lemon  juice  last.  Pour 
over  quartered  head  Iceberg  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Hexky  M.  Wilson. 

SHRIMP    SALAD 

One  quart  of  fresh  shrimp,  or  one  large  can  of  canned  shrimp.  Two 
heads  of  celery.  Wash  and  cover  the  fresh  shrimp  well  with  water,  let 
cook  for  about  30  minutes,  or  until  the  shrimp  turn  pink  and  the  cover- 
ing loosens  from  the  flesh.  Shell,  and  cut  or  mince,  as  preferred,  drain 
well  and  place  in  ice  box  until  ready  to  mix  for  serving. 

Canned  shrimp  should  be  washed,  cut  and  placed  in  ice  box  until 
salad  is  mixed  for  serving.  Salad  should  be  mixed  immediately  before 
serving. 

39 


// 


you  want  your  salads  to  be 
More  Appetizing  and  more 
delicious — 

Use 

Salad  King  Mayonnaise 


Try  Salad  King  Relish,  or  Salad 
King  Olive  Mynaize  for  your  sand- 
wich spreads  and  you  will  be  de- 
lighted with  its  tastiness.  Besides 
tasting  like  M  ORE  it  is  a  very  ECONOMICAL  method 
of  getting    up  fine,  delicious  sandwiches. 


Important 

CLThis  booklet  will  give  you  many  fine  ideas  as  to  how 
to  use  Salad  King  Mayonnaise,  Relish  and  Olive  My- 
naise  to  the  best  advantage,  if  used  in  conjunction 
with  these  recipes. 

CA  rare  treat  is  in  store  for  you  if  you  will  follow 
these  recipes,  especially  where  the  use  of  a  Mayonnaise 
Dressing  is  recommended. 


For  Sale  at  all  Good  Grocers 

GARLAND  C.  NORRIS  &>  COMPANY 


Wholesale  Distributors 


MANUFACTURED  BY 


RALEIGH.  N.  C. 


SAMUEL  MERVIS  CO. 

22  North  Greene  Street 

Baltimore,  Maryland 


40 


DRESSING 

2  tablespoons  of  vinegar  2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  of  water 

Mix  vinegar  and  water,  heat  until  smoking.  Beat  eggs  until  light 
and  foamy.  Add  vinegar  to  eggs.  Place  on  fire  and  stir  constantly 
over  a  slow  flame  until  thick  and  creamy.  Remove,  and  when  cold  stir 
in  about  one  pint  of  oil  gradually,  add  seasoning  of  mustard,  lemon, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Sprinkle  shrimp  with  lemon  juice,  mix  with 
celery,  add  dressing  in  proportion  desired,  place  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
serve  at  once.  This  salad  is  most  excellent  combined  with  fresh  tomatoes. 
This  dressing  may  be  made  quickly,  keeps  well  in  an  ice  box  and  is  espe- 
cially good  with  meat  salads  of  all  kinds. 

Martha  H.  Haywood. 
Elsie  B.  Haywood. 

SALAD  DELIGHT 

2  tablespoonfulls  Chalmer's  i/o  cup  vinegar 
Gelatine                                            4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 

1/4  cup  of  cold  water  i/o  lemon 

1  cup  of  hot  water  1  cup  crushed  pineapple 

1  teaspoonful  salt  1  cup  finely  diced  cucumber 

Add  cold  water  to  the  gelatine,  let  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then 
pour  the  cup  of  boiling  water  over,  add  sugar,  salt,  vinegar,  lemon 
juice  of  half  lemon,  pineapple  and  finely  diced  cucumber.  Mayonnaise 
dressing  or  whipped  cream  can  be  added  if  so  desired. 

Mrs.  James  A.  Briggs. 

CUCUMBER  JELLY 

1  cucumber,  shredded  Juice  of  3  lemons 

1  teaspoon  salt  AVater  to  make  1  quart 

Shred  cucumber  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes  with  salt.  Squeeze  in 
cheese  cloth  bag  to  get  out  juices.  Flavor  with  onion  juice,  red  pepper 
and  lemon  juice.  Put  pulp  back  in  mixture  and  make  into  a  jelly  with 
Chalmer's  Gelatine.    Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  R.  D.  W.  Conxok,  Chapel  Hill,  N.  C. 


41 


Cook  With  Gas 

Gas  service  is  practically  an  instantaneous  service.  You  don't 
have  to  'phone  or  wait  for  it.  It's  there  right  at  your  finger  tips. 

At  any  hour  of  the  day  or  night  there  are  pipes  full  of  gas, 
waiting  to  serve  you — to  cook  your  meals,  heat  your  water  or 
keep  you  warm — a  real  home  comfort. 

And  when  gas  has  performed  its  service  for  you  and  you  turn 
it  off,  it  is  gone — leaving  no  smoke,  soot,  ashes  or  dust.  Do  it 
the  clean  way — it  pays  to  "Cook  with  Gas." 


Carolina  Power  &  Light  Co. 

AT  YOUR  SERVICE 


42 


r  FAIRY   SALAD 

1/4    lb    marshmallows,    cut    four      1  large  can  sliced  pineapple,  cut 
times,   best   to    dry    out    over  in  dice  and  lay  in  cloth  over 

night  night 

14  lb  almonds  blanched  and  cut 
fine 

DRESSING  '' 

3  egg  yolks,  not  beaten  1  tablespoon  butter 

2%  tablespoons  vinegar  1  tablespoon  sugar 

2l^  tablespoons  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  all  except  vinegar  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  then  add 
vinegar  slowly.  Add  1  pint  whipped  cream  and  mix  well.  Serve  on 
white  lettuce  if  possible.     Serves  eight. 

Mrs.  B.  Moore  Parker. 

FROZEN  SALAD  (Two  Quarts) 

Mix  %  cups  each —  Blanched  almonds 

Chopped  pineapple  Pecans  and 

White  cherries  1    pt    double    cream   whipped 

Red  cherries  .  stiff 

Orange  pulp 

Soak  two  tablespoons  Chalmer's  gelatine  in  ^3  cup  cherr}'  juice,  warm 
to  melt  gelatine.  Dissolve  two  tablespoons  sugar  in  i/o  cup  pineapple 
juice.  Add  this  liquid  mixture  to  fruit,  cream,  etc.  Put  in  cold  pack 
(ice  and  salt)  for  about  4  hours.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Bernard. 
FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  butter ;  add  slowly  well  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  3 I/O  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  Y^  teaspoonful  pa- 
prika, and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Add  slowly  %  cupful  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  lemon  juice,  and  %  cupful  vinegar. 

Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens; 
(must  be  very  thick).     Remove  from  fire  and  beat  two  minutes. 

When  chilled,  add  one  cupful  cream  measured  after  whipping  (good 
Yo  pint),  and  gradually  fold  in  l^/o  cupfuls  prepared  fruit  cut  in  pieces,. 

43 


using  oranges,  fresh  or  canned  pineapple,  bananas  and  maraschino 
cherries.  Add  one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  few  grains  salt,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  canned  pineapple  syrup  and  a  little  maraschino  syrup. 

Pour  into  mould  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt   (equal  parts).     Let  stand 
three  hours.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Two  bananas,  2  large  slices  pineapple    (canned),  Vo  bottle  cherries 
and  o  oranges  will  serve  about  one  dozen. 

Mrs.  S.  Brown  Shepherd. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 


1  large  grape  fruit 

3  oranges 

1  small  can  white  cherries 


1  small  can  sliced  pineapple 

1  stalk  celery 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

Cut  fruit  and  celery  in  rather  large  pieces.     Mix  with  mayonnaise. 
Pack  and  let  stand  for  four  hours. 

Mrs.  W.   B.   Drake. 
GINGER  ALE  SALAD 


1  cup  of  pineapple  (cut  in  small 

pieces) 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  tablespoon  sugar 
1  grape  fruit    (using  pulp  and 

juice) 
1  cup  of  apple  cut  in  long  nar- 


spoons    lemon    juice    poured 
over  it 

1  cup  shredded  celery,  in  about 
1  inch  long  pieces 

2  tablespoonsful  chopped  up 
Canton  ginger 

1  cup  white  malaga  grapes,  cut 
in  half  and  seeded. 


row    pieces,    with    two    table- 
Pour  1/4  cup  cold  water  on  one  ounce  of  Chalmer's  Gelatine,  let  stand 
ten  minutes.     Then  stir  in  it  %  cup  boiling  water.     Stir  until  smooth 
and  cool.     Add  one  pint  bottle  Virginia  Dare  ginger  ale.     Stir  in  fruit 
and  put  in  mold  on  ice  to  chill.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Walter  Stearns,  Schenectedy,  N.  Y. 


GRISWOLD  SALAD 


2  quart  cans  of  white  cherrie?, 
(cut   fine) 

1  quart  can  of  pears  (cut  fine) 

3  stalks  celery  (cut  fine) 
1/4  pound  blanched  almonds 

(cut  fine) 


2  tablespoons  small  french 
onions 

1   quart   stiff  mayonnaise   dres- 
sing 


44 


Mix  all  together ;  put  in  mould  and  freeze.  Turn  out  on  bed  of  lettuce 
and  serve  with  cheese  apples.  The  apples  are  made  of  American  cheese 
to  look  like  little  crab-apples  and  painted  to  resemble  them.  This 
quantity  will  serve  twenty  people. 

Mks.  0.  Ste.ajjman  Thompson. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

1  pint  double  cream  2  dozen  marshmallows 

1  large  can  pineapple  l^/^  cups  blanched  almonds 

1  large  can  white  cherries  4  tablespoons  Tarragon  vinegar 

1  medium   sized   bottle   Maras-      -4  tablespoons  sugar 
chino  cherries  4  egg  yolks 

Cut  up  fruit  and  let  it  drain.  Beat  vinegar,  sugar  and  egg  yolks 
well  together  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick ;  when  cool  add  to 
the  cream,  that  has  been  beaten  stiff,  then  the  fruit,  etc.,  mix  well,  put 
in  a  mould  or  vacuum  freezer  and  pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  several  hours. 

Mrs.  William  S.  West. 

MRS.  JAS.  BOYLAN'S  COOKED  DRESSING  FOR  CHICKEN 
SALAD  MIXED  WITH  MAYONNAISE 

Yellows  of  three  eggs  i/^  cup  vinegar 

2  teaspoons  flour  beaten  into  !/>  cup  water 

eggs  Add  this  to  eggs  and  flour 

Put  mixture  on  stove  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick  as  custard. 
Into  this  put  lump  of  butter  and  1  teaspoon  salt,  dash  red  pepper,  dash 
black  pepper.    When  cold  add  stiffly  beaten  whites. 

Mrs.  Claiborn  Carr,  Durham,  N.  C. 

RUSSIAN  DRESSING 

1/2  cup  mayonnaise  dressing  or      1  tablespoon  pimento,  finely 

Salad  kind  mayonnaise  diced 

2  teaspoons  Chili  sauce  1  tablespoon  fineh^  diced  green 

1  tablespoon  celery  finely  diced  pepper 

1  tablespoon  grated  cheese 
Mix  ingredients  and  chill. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

Add  to  Russian  Dressing  just  before  serving,  one-half  cup  whipped 
cream,  beaten  very  stiff. 

45 


ROQUEFORT  CHEESE  DRESSING 

3  tablespoons  mayonnaise   dres-      2  tablespoons  Roquefort  cheese 
sing   or    Salad   King   niayon-  cut  in  small  pieces 

naise  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

French  dressing 

Combine  French  dressing,  mayonnaise  dressing  and  cheese,  stir  until 
thick,  then  add  the  Worcestershire  sauce.  Cream  cheese  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  Roquefort. 

Ellen  D.  Hinsdale. 
FROZEN  SALAD 

1  pint  cream  whipped  very  stitf      1  small  bottle  maraschino  cher- 

1/2  pint  mayonnaise  ries 

1  cake  cream  cheese  %  lb  white  grapes 

i;4  lb  chopped  almonds  1  small  grape  fruit  or  i/o  of  a 

1  orange  large  one 
1  small  can  sliced  pineapple  cut 
in  pieces 

Mix  cheese  in  mayonnaise,  add  fruits  without  any  juice,  then  the 
cream.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  four  hours. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Wright. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

1  stalk  of  celery,  cut  as  for  salad      ^/o  lb  red  California  Torkay 
Y2  lt>  blanched  almonds  grapes 

%  apple  or  grape  fruit  cut  in 
small  cubes 

If  you  use  apple,  add  just  before  serving  as  they  turn  dark  after 
cutting.  Cut  the  grapes  in  half  and  get  the  seed  out.  Mix  all  with 
maj'onnaise  dressing.     Can  thin  with,  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Wright, 


46 


47 


CAKES 

MRS.  M.  M.  MARSHALL'S  SPONGE  CAKE 

6  eggs  •  1  cup  boiling  water 

2  cups  sugar  1  level  teaspoonful  Royal  Bak- 

2y2  cups  flour  ing  Powder 

Beat  egg  yolks  very  light,  add  sugar  and  beat  again  well.  Into  this 
mixture  put  the  flour,  then  boiling  water,  and  lastly  the  egg  whites 
beaten  until  very  stiff.  Flavor  with  teaspoon  Virginia  Dare  Lemon 
Extract.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Duncan  Cameron. 

FILLING  FOR  SPONGE  CAKE 

The  above  cake  may  be  baked  in  three  layers,  putting  between  them 
icing  made  by  adding  to  three  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
six  dessert  spoons  of  pulverized  sugar  to  each  egg  and  lemon  to  flavor. 

Mrs.  George  Syme. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

(From  Mrs.  Branch's  Recipe  Book,  1840). 

2  lbs  sugar  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

2  lbs  butter  1  tablespoon  mace 

2  lbs  flour  (browned)  1  tablespoon  nutmeg 

15  eggs  1  tablespoon  allspice 

2  lbs  raisins  1  tablespoon  cloves 

2  lbs  currants  1  glass  of  wine 

V2  lb  shelled  almonds  1  glass  of  brandy 

1  lb  citron  1  teaspoon  soda  in  a  cup  of 

1  pt.  jar  preserved  figs.  cream 

Cut  fruit  and  chop  almonds  (blanched),  flour  it  lightly  and  add 
spices.  Mix  as  you  would  any  other  cake  adding  fruit  to  batter  grad- 
ually. A  cup  of  molasses  may  be  used  instead  of  wine  and  brandy. 
This  makes  two  large  cakes.  Start  in  a  warm  oven  and  let  it  gradually 
bake  for  six  or  seven  hours,  heating  the  oven  slowly. 

Mrs.  Armistead  Jones. 
48 


CITRON  CAKE 

1  lb  butter  1  lb  blanched  almonds 

1  lb  sugar  1  nutmeg  grated 

1  doz  eggs  (beaten  separately)  1  teaspoon  mace 

1  lb  flour  1  tumbler  brandy 

8  lbs  citron  Vo  tumbler  sherry 
1  large  or  2  small  cocoanuts 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  egg  yolks  and  flour 
gradually  with  the  liquid.  Lastly  add  fruit  that  has  been  ground,  and 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  four  hours. 

Mrs.  S.  p.  Tklfair. 

MRS.   BROC'KENBROUGH'S   POUND   CAKE 

1  pound  butter  washed  and  1  pound  and  1  ounce  of  sugar 

creamed  fine  and  white 

1  pound  flour  dried  and  sifted  16  eggs  leaving  out  8  j'olks   . 

Flavor  to  taste 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together  till  very  light,  then  beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  very  well  and  add  them  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  stirring  the 
mixture  all  the  while ;  then  having  beaten  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  them  also  by  spoonsful,  alternately  with  spoonful  of 
the  flour,  till  the  whole  of  both  is  taken  in.  Set  it  to  rise  for  an  hour 
or  more  in  a  greased  pan  and  then  bake  in  a  cpiick  oven.  Be  careful  that 
it  does  not  burn ;  if  there  is  any  danger  of  this,  cover  it  with  a  clean 
thick  paper,  and  watch  it  till  done. 

Mrs.   Annie   Mason    Brockenbrough. 

RALEIGH  ROWENA  ROLL-OUTS 

Name  given  to  cakes  by  this  recipe  by  Annie  Mason  Brockenbrough,  of 
Raleigh,  N.  C,  now  of  Tappahannock,  Va.,  (daughter  of  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Richard 
Mason). 

Rub  ^4  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  2  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  then  beat 
three  eggs  very  light  with  one  pound  of  sugar  (brown  sugar  is  best), 
to  a  full  tablespoon  vinegar,  add  one  and  one-half  teaspoonsful  of 
soda  and  2  of  cream  of  tartar,  flavor  with  cinnamon,  roll  thin,  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  a  light  brown. 

49 


BROWN  STONE  FRONT  CAKE 

Boil  together  until  smooth  7  teaspoonsful  of  Baker's  Cocoa,  %  cup  of 
milk,  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Set  aside  to  cool  and  then  add 
1  teaspoonful  of  Virginia  Dare  Extract  of  Vanilla. 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

3  eggs  beaten  separately  2  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking 
%  cup  butter  Powder 

1/2  cup  milk 

Beat  both  cooked  and  uncooked  batter  together.  Bake  in  well  greased 
jelly  pans.    Put  together  with  any  preferred  creamy  icing. 

Mes.  Alfred   Thompson. 

CAKE 

1  full  cup  butter  1  heaping  teaspoon  Royal  Bak- 

2  cups  sugar  ing  Powder 

4  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

5  eggs  1  large  lemon 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  beat  eggs  separately  and  add  yolks  to  sugar 
and  butter.  Sift  flour  three  tlm.es  after  adding  baking  powder  and  add 
alternately  with  milk,  lastly  add  whites  well  beaten. 

Mrs.  B.  T.  Cowper. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  ginger 

3  cups  Crusader  flour  1  teaspoon  cloves 
1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  spice 
1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  hot  water 

Dissolve  soda  in  hot  water. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Lee. 

VIRGINIA  POUND   CAKE 

1  lb  flour  5  eggs 

1/2  lb  butter  2  teaspoons  Royal  Baking 

1  cup  water  Powder 

1  lb  sugar 

50 


Cream  butter,  add  egg  yolks,  then  water.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  and  beat  the  egg  whites.  Add  first  the  flour  then  whites  to  the 
first  mixture,    A  good  batter  for  all  layer  cakes. 

Mrs.  Charles  Farmer. 

LEMON  JELLY  FILLING 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  cup  water  1  tablespoon  flour  mixed  into 

2  lemons  little  of  the  water 

Mix  all  together  and  cook  till  thick.  Spread  between  layers  when 
cool. 

Mrs.  Charles  Farmer. 
CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

From  recipe  books  of  Mrs.  Charles  Root  and  Mrs.  William  Grimes,  Sr. 
5  eggs  2  heaping  teaspoons  Royal 

2  cups  sugar  Baking  Powder 

214  cups  flour  4  oz  of  chocolate  grated  or 

1  heaping  cup  of  butter  melted  and  stirred  in  last 

1  cup  of  milk 

Cream  butter  with  sugar.  Add  well  beaten  j^olks  of  eggs,  then  beaten 
whites.  Sift  baking  powder  Mdth  flour  twice,  then  stir  in  alternating 
with  milk.     Add  chocolate  last. 

FILLING 

4  oz  chocolate  Butter  size  of  walnut 

1  lb  brown  sugar  Teaspoon  Virginia   Dare  Va- 

i/o  cup  milk  nilla 

Stir  constantly  until  consistency  of  cream. 

Mrs.  Watkins  Robards,  Sanford,  N.  C. 
Mrs.  John  Ward. 

EVELINEA'S  GINGERBREAD 

3  eggs  1  cup  lard  and  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar  3  cups  and  2  tablespoons  Cru- 

1  cup  molasses  sader   flour 

1  level  tablespoonful  allspice  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  boil- 

1  level  tablespoon  cinnamon  ing  water,  added  last. 

2  level  tablespoons  ginger 

Beat  for  ten  minutes  and  bake  for  i/^  hour  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Lawrence. 
51 


SPONGE  CAKE 

4  eg'gs  Juice  of  I/2  lemon  and  grated 

1  cup  of  sugar  rind 

1  cup  of  sifted  flour  A  little  pinch  of  salt 

Separate  eggs.  Beat  yolks  till  like  cream.  To  this  add  one-half  the 
sugar  and  the  lemon.  Beat  this  five  minvites.  Beat  whites  till  stiff, 
having  added  salt.  Add  to  beaten  whites  the  other  half  cup  of  sugar, 
then  beat  yolks  and  whites  together,  then  fold  in  the  flour.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

FOR  JELLY  ROLL 

Bake  in  thin  pan  for  jelly  roll,  spread  on  jelly  and  roll  tight.  Sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar. 

Miss  Mattie  H.  Bailey. 

LADY    BALTIMORE    CAKE 

(Original  Charleston  Recipe) 

One  cup  butter  beaten  to  a  cream  with  2  cups  sugar,  add  Syo  cups  of 
flour  into  which  4  level  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder  has  been 
sifted.  Beat  in  gradually  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  last  stir  in  the 
whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor  with  rose  water  or  any 
flavoring  preferred.     Bake  in  three  layers. 

FILLING 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  water  and  boil  until  the  syrup  ropes  and 
small  hairs  of  syrup  fly  from  the  spoon  at  an  angle. 

Pour  boiling  syrup  very  gradually  upon  the  siffly  beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  one  cup  or  more  of 
chopped  seeded  rasins,  1  cup  of  chopped  pecan  nuts,  or  more,  six  freshly 
dried  figs,  sliced  thin  and  cut  up.  This  must  be  stirred  in  and  spread 
between  the  layers,  after  which  the  cake  can  be  frosted. 

Mrs.  Chaeles  E.  Johnson,  Sk. 


52 


LAYER  CAKE— NUT  AND  RAISIN  FILING 

1  cup  butter  6  eggs 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  Royal  Baking 

2  cups  sugar  Powder 

Pinch  of  salt  Virginia  Dare  vanilla  and  lemon 

3  cups  flour  to  flavor 


This  makes  three  lavers. 


ICING 


4  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  good  vinegar 

1  (light)  cup  cold  water 

Boil  together  until  it  spins  a  thread,  pour  slowly  over  the  unbeaten 
whites  of  four  eggs,  beating  constantly  until  thick.  Put  enough  of  this 
mixture,  to  ice  outside  of  cake  in  small,  warm,  covered  bowl.  Add  one 
cup  of  chopped  raisins  and  one  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts  to  re- 
mainder of  icing  and  spread  between  layers.  Then  ice  outside  of  cake 
with  icing  placed  in  bowl. 

Mrs.  Louis  Mauler. 

MOCHA  CAKE  No.  1 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  butter 
4  eggs                                                    2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sweet  milk  Yz  cake  Baker's  chocolate  melted 

1  level  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  separately,  then  flour  and 
milk  alternately,  then  melted  chocolate.  Bake  in  layer  jDans.  This 
should  make  three  layers.     Filavor  with  Virginia  Dare  extract  of  vanilla. 

FILLING  FOR  MOCHA  CAKE 

1  pound  pulverized  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

4  tablespoons  Baker's  cocoa  %  cup  strong  cold  black  coffee 
Vo  tablespoon  Virginia  Dare  (add  gradually) 

vanilla 

Spread  this  between  layers  and  over  cake. 

Mrs.  B.  W.  Baker. 
53 


MOCHA  CAKE  No.  2 

%  cup  of  butter   (not  quite  %  3  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking 

cup  full)  Powder 

iy2  cups  of  sugar  3  egg  whites 

3  egg  yolks  2  squares  of  chocolate 

%  cup  of  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  of  Virginia  Dare 
2  cups  of  flour  vanilla 

Mix  as  for  any  cake  batter  and  bake  in  three  layers. 

FILLING  AND  ICING  FOR  MOCHA  CAJCE 

8  tablespoons  of  butter,  creamed  2  teaspoons  of  Virginia  Dare 

8  tablespoons  of  cocoa,  added  to  vanilla 

the  butter  4  tablespoons  of  strong  black 

1  lb  confectioner's  sugar,  stirred  coffee 
into  the  butter  and  cocoa 

Mix  all  till  quite  smooth  and  spread  between  and  on  top  of  cake.  This 
icing  requires  no  cooking. 

Mrs.  Ashby  Lee  Baker. 

ORANGE  CAKE 

2/3  cup  butter  3  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking 

2  cups  of  sugar  Powder 

3  gggg  Q    — ,.„.c 

3  cups  Crusader  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  egg  yolks  and  flour  in 
which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  the 
oranges  in  a  cup  and  add  enough  water  to  fill  it.  Add  to  batter.  Mix 
antil  smooth.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Flavor  with  grated 
rind  of  one  orange.  Bake  in  layers  (makes  three  layers  in  an  ordinary 
sized  pan ) . 

ORANGE  ICING 

Grated  rind  of  one  orange,  juice  of  i/o  orange,  1  egg,  confectioner's 
sugar.  Mix  orange  rind  and  juice  with  the  egg  and  add  enough  sugar 
to  spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. 

Mrs.  Evebette  Briggs. 
54 


3  oranges   (grated  rind  of  one) 
Water 


ORANGE  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  Whites  of  four  eggs 

2  cups  Crusader  flour  Juice  of  one  orange 

^  cup  water  2  teaspoons  Royal  Baking 

Yolks  of  five  eggs  Powder 


Bake  in  layers. 


FILLING 


White  of  one  egg  1  lb  confectioner's  sugar 

Juice  of  one  orange 

Add  pulp  of  one  orange  between  layers  after  icing. 

Mrs.  Georgf:  M.  Harden. 


WHITE  CAKE  WITH  CARAMEL  FILLING 

(Mrs.  I.  0.  Adams,  Birmingham,  Ala.) 

lyo  cups  flour  measured  before  14  cup  soft  butter 

sifting  %  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  .  1  heaping  teaspoon  Royal  Bak- 
Whites  of  2  eggs  ing  Powder 

Put  all  of  the  above  together  and  beat  five  minutes  or  until  light. 
This  makes  two  small  layers. 

CARAMEL  FILLING 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  browned  1  tablespoon  butter,  or  one-third 
first  stick  of  butter 

3  cups  sugar  Pinch  of  soda 
1  cup  milk 

Mix  as  follows :  To  the  sugar  that  has  been  browned  add  the  other 
sugar  and  milk,  also  soda.  Cook  in  boiler  until  thick  and  add  butter. 
As  soon  as  it  threads  when  dropped  from  a  spoon,  or  forms  a  soft  ball 
in  water,  remove  from  fire,  let  stand  until  nearly  cool,  add  one  teaspoon 
flour  and  beat  until  creamy  enough  to  spread.  Flavor  with  Virginia 
Dare  extract  of  vanilla. 

Mrs.  H.  T.  Adams. 
55 


MRS.  THOMAS  HAY'S  RECEIPT  FOR  ROLLED  WAFERS 

%  pound  pounded  sugar  ly^  pints  flour 

%  pound  butter  Season   either   with   nutmeg   or 

9  eggs  beaten  light  cinnamon 

Heat  irons  and  grease  them  well,  put  in  a  large  teaspoonful  of  the 
mixture  at  a  time.    Bake  a  light  brown  and  roll  them  while  still  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Jones. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

IVi  cups  sugar  i/>  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  erisco  1  teaspoon  soda  in  milk 

3  cnps  rolled  oatmeal  1  teaspoon  ginger 

3  teaspoons  cinnamon  2  cups  Crusader  flour. 

1  cup  raisins  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs 

Cream  erisco  and  sugar  thoroughly  together,  add  eggs  well  beaten, 
rolled  oats,  raisins,  salt,  spice,  milk  and  flour.  Mix  and  drop  from  spoon 
on  greased  tins,  bake  in  moderate  oven  from  ten  to  twelve  minutes. 
Makes  abont  forty-five  cookies. 

Mrs.  Murrey  Aluen. 

TEA  CAKES 

1  cup  butter  Enough  flour  to  roll  out 

3  eggs  '^,2  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  brown  sugar  y^  teaspoon  soda 

Have  dough  as  thin  as  can  be  handled.     Flavor  with  cinnamon. 

Mrs.  Charles  G.  Latta. 
SUGAR  CAKES 

5  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter 

IV2  cups  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  lard 

IV2  qts.  flour  with  baking  pow- 
der in  it 

Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  Virginia  Dare  rose  water  or  Virginia  Dare 
bitter  almond.  The  mixture  must  be  of  the  consistency  of  biscuit.  Roll 
out  thin  and  cut  with  a  small  glass  or  wine  glass. 

These  cakes  are  better  the  second  day  than  the  first. 

Miss  Sallie  Dortch. 
56 


SPICE  CAKES 


2  cups  sugar 
1  cup  butter 

3  cups  Crusader  flour 

4  eggs 

1  scant  teaspoon  soda 

Yo  teaspoon  Royal  Baking 

Bake  in  small  mutfin  rings. 


Powder 
1  teaspoon  allspice 
1  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  raisins 
1  cup  nuts 


Mrs.  T.  M.  Ashe. 


1  cup  pecans  chopped 

1  cup  brown  sugar 
14  cup  flour 

2  eggs 


PECAN  NUT  CAKE 

y2  teaspoon  Royal  Baking 

Powder 
1,4  teaspoon  salt  over  nuts 


Leave  12  whole  pieces  of  nuts  to  put  on  top  of  cakes.  Beat  eggs,  add 
sugar,  nuts,  flour  and  baking  powder.  Bake  in  medium  oven,  filling 
pans  1/4  full. 

Mes.  G.  L.  Jones,  Asheville,  N.  C. 


GINGER   SNAPS 


2  cups  molasses 

1  cup  lard 

1  tablespoon  soda 


1  tablespoon  ginger. 
Crusader  flour  to  roll  stiff 


Mrs.  C.  R.  Lee. 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

1  cup  and  a  half  of  egg  whites,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  Squibb 's 

usually  11  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  and  a  half  of  granulated  14  teaspoon  of  salt  at  first  in 

sugar  whites 

1  cup  of  flour 

Beat  whites  until  stiff  and  ragged,  sift  in  cream  of  tartar  and  beat. 
Sift  in  sugar  and  beat  until  the  consistency  of  a  marshmallow.  Fold  in 
the  flour  which  has  been  sifted  five  times.  Lift  out  with  a  large  spoon 
into  an  ungreased  Angel  Food  cake  pan.  Put  in  a  cold  oven,  turn  on 
a  little  gas,  and  in  15  minutes  turn  on  a  little  more  gas.     At  the  end  of 


57 


45  minutes  it  has  risen  as  much  as  it  is  going  to,  leave  in  oven  15 
minutes  more.  It  should  be  a  light  brown.  Turn  upside  down  and  let 
cake  fall  out. 

CUSTARD  FILLING  FOR  ANGEL  CAKE 

If  cake  is  cooked  in  layers  (three  usually)  a  custard  filling  made  of 

9  egg  yolks  7  teaspoons  cornstarch 

2  cups  milk  Virginia  Dare  Extract  of  va- 

Pinch  of  salt  nilla 

IY2  cups  sugar 

made  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly,  is  nice.  When  cold  stir  in 
1/4  pound  chopped  blanched  almonds. 

Mrs.  R.  Y.  McPherson. 

TO  MAKE  A  BUTTER  CAKE 

(From  the  "Art  of  Cookery  Made  Plain  and  Easy,"  date  not  known. 
Last  owner  1784.) 

You  must  take  a  dish  of  butter  and  beat  it  like  cream  with  your 
hands,  2  lbs  of  fine  sugar  well  beat,  3  lbs  of  flour,  well  dried  and  mix 
them  with  the  butter,  24  eggs,  leave  out  %  the  whites  and  then  beat 
all  together  with  your  hand  one  way  for  an  hour.  Just  as  you  are  going 
to  put  in  the  oven,  put  in  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  a  nut  meg 
beat,  a  little  sack  of  brandy,  and  seeds  or  currants  just  as  you  please. 

Mrs.  Rufus  Hunter. 


58 


Double  Strength 
F    Flavoring  Extracts? 


Ida  Bailey  Allen,  Editor  Household  Page,  New  York  Evening  Mail, 
well  known  food  expert  and  authority  on  Home  Economics  says: 

"Double  Strength  Extract  does  not  cost  as  much  as  that  which  is 
less  desirable  because  the  manufacturing  costs  are  less.  You  save  mon- 
ey because  all  of  the  cost  of  making  and  selling  two  bottles  of  extract, 
extra  bottles,  extra  boxes,  extra  packing,  extra  shipping,  are  cut  to  put 
n  one  bottle  a  DOUBLE  VALUE  IN  STRENGTH." 

Sherry- J  ell 

A  pure  Sherry    Wine    Flavor,    concentrated    and    made  semi-solid  to 
prevent  its  illegitimate  use.  For  flavoring  Lobster  and  Crab  Newburghs, 
Chicken  a  la  King,   Plum  Pudding,    Fruit   Cake,    Mincemeat,   Salads, 
Bisque  Ice  Cream,  Grape  Fruit  and  in  Frozen  Deserts. 
"Makes  anything  taste  better."     Full  directions  on  the  label. 


Every  Drop 
Counts 
Double 


Write  Us  For  Our  List  of  Flavors 

Virginia  Dare  Extract  Co.,  Inc. 

10  Bush  Terminal  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


59 


PUDDINGS,  PIES  AND  DESSERTS 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING  No.  1 

' '  This  delicious  compound  is  made  by  mixing  six  eggs,  a  teaspoon  each 
of  salt  and  spice,  a  gill  of  rum  and  %  lbs  each  of  chopped  suet,  raisins, 
currants,  apples,  bread  crumbs  and  sugar,  ^  lb  each  of  candied  citron 
and  orange  peel  sliced,  and  the  peel  of  one  lemon  grated.  These  ingre- 
dients are  placed  in  a  buttered  pudding  mould  with  a  cloth  tied  over  the 
top  and  boiled  for  six  hours."  When  done  the  pudding  is  turned  from 
the  mould,  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar  and  served  with  a  hard  sauce 
made  with  brown  sugar  and  butter. 

Miss  S.illie  Dortch. 

PLUM  PUDDING  No.  2 

2  pounds  of  seed  raisins  3  lemons,  juice  and  grated 
2  pounds  of  currants  rind 

%  pound  of  chopped  citron  8  eggs 
1/4  pound  of  candied  orange  peel      2  pounds  brown  sugar 

chopped  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt 

%  pound  chopped  almonds  2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  nut- 
2  pounds  of  bread  crumbs  meg 

2  cupfuls  of  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  mixed  spices 

2  pounds  of  chopped  suet  Milk  or  wine  for  mixing 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients  together ;  then  add  the  strained  juice  of  the 
lemons,  the  eggs  and  sufficient  milk  or  wine  to  moisten  but  not  wet. 
Divide  the  mixture  into  well  buttered  cofii'ee  cans,  cover  with  cloth  tied 
on  tightly,  and  boil  steadily  for  eight  hours.  Boil  for  one  hour  when 
wanted  for  use.  This  mixture  should  fill  three  one  pound  coffee  cans. 
Cook  in  fireless  over  night. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Brimley. 

BOILED  PLUM  PUDDING 

(Mrs.  S.  B.  Page's  Recipe) 

Two  pounds  of  plums,  one  pound  of  currants,  one  and  a  half  dozen 
eggs,  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  flour,  one  tumbler  of  French  brandy,  two 
grated  nutmegs,  one  pound  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar, 

60 


one-half  pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  almonds.  Make  as  you  would  a 
fruit  cake.  Boil  in  a  strong  cloth  bag  that  has  been  dipped  in  scalding 
water  and  floured  on  the  inside. 


WINE  SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING 

One  pound  of  sugar,  wet  with  wine,  cream  with  one  large  tablespoonful 
butter.  Drop  in  several  pieces  of  orange  peel,  boil  until  it  is  thick.  Grate 
a  little  nutmeg  in  before  it  is  done. 

Mary  Atn'dersox  Page. 

MOLASSES  PUDDING 

Take  one  cup  brown  sugar,  two  cups  black  molasses,  four  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons butter,  1/2  teaspoon  soda,  dissolve  in  a  tablespoon  boiling  water. 
Two  level  tablespoons  flour.  Season  well  with  ginger.  Bake  in  rich 
pastry  in  pie  plates.     This  quantity  will  make  two  good  sized  ones. 

Mrs.  a.  W.  Haywood. 


POOR  MAN'S  PUDDING 

6  eggs  %  tablespoonful  of  butter 

1  cup  of  flour  (not  quite  full)  A  pinch  of  salt 

2  tumblers  of  milk 

Bake  and  eat  with  wine  sauce. 

Miss  Susax  McPheeters. 

BAKED  APPLE  PUDDING 

(From  Mrs.  James  Boylan"s  Cook  Book) 

Put  3  quarts  of  pared  and  quartered  apples  in  a  deep  pudding  dish, 
being  careful  not  to  have  it  too  full,  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
one  lemon,  and  %  nutmeg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  ^/^  cup  water.  Bake  until 
soft  in  moderate  oven.  In  the  meantime  mix  into  one  pint  of  sifted 
flour  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  i/^ 
teaspoon  salt,  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter  and 
two  tablespoons  hot  water — beat  one  egg  very  light,  add  14  pine  milk, 
pour  the  whole  mixture  over  apples  and  bake  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  O.  Steadmax  Thompson. 
61 


LEMON  CREAM  PUDDING 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  add 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  large  lemon  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
hot  water.  Simmer  until  it  thickens,  then  remove  from  the  tire  and  stir 
in  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  p.  H.  Busbee. 
PINEAPPLE  PUDDING 

1  pint  grated  pineapple  3  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  cream  or  milk 

Stir  all  together  without  beating  eggs.  Butter  a  ring  mould  and  pour 
in  the  mixture.  Set  mould  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  set  in  oven  and 
bake  until  firm  and  brown.  When  cold  turn  from  mould,  pile  whipped 
cream  in  center  and  serve.    This  will  serve  six  people. 

Mrs.  R.  D.  W.  Connor,  Chapel  Hill. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING 

Yolks  of  five  eggs,  beaten  with  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one 
cup  bread  crumbs,  one  pint  of  milk,  add  a  grated  cocoanut.  Bake  in 
pudding  dish  until  light  brown.  Beat  the  whites  with  five  tablespoons 
of  sugar  put  on  top  and  brown,  flavor  the  meringue. 

Mrs.  Margeret  Cowper  Hall. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

4  good  tablespoons  of  cocoa  3  level  tablespoons  of  corn 

starch 

Mix  cocoa  and  corn  starch  with  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  to  make 
thick  paste.    One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  sugar. 

Let  come  to  boiling  heat.  Pour  into  cocoa  mixture,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Put  on  stove  and  stir  until  thick.  Add  teaspoon  of  Virginia 
Dare  extract  of  vanilla  and  beat  hard  before  putting  into  mould. 

Mrs.  Hubert  Haywood,  Jr. 

SPONGE  PUDDING 

1/4  lb  Crusader  flour  1  quart  milk 

14  lb  of  butter  8  eggs 

14  lb  of  sugar 

62 


Served  at 


Leading  Hotels 

Of  North  Carolina 

Sold  by  Leading  Grocers 

A  Jellied  Marmalade;  home-made  from  grape 
fruit  with  oranges  and  lemons. 

Served  with    waffles  or  hot   cakes,  delicious- 
with  brown  bread  and  cream  cheese  a  full  meal. 

A  Peppy  Topping  for  Ice  Cream 

With  plain  Buttered  Toast  it's  perfect. 

63 


Put  milk  in  a  pan  and  set  in  boiling  water.  Mix  flour  in  a  part  of 
cold  milk  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Stir  briskly  until  cooked.  Take 
from  fire  and  add  sugar,  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten.  Last  of 
all  add  whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  buttered  dish 
set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  with  a  cover  on  dish.  Serve  with  following 
sauce : 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  cups  water,  1  tablespoon  butter.     Boil  and  add 

grated  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  Ed.  Chambers  Smith. 

GRATED  POTATO  PUDDING 

2  medium  size  potatoes  1  cup  sugar 

1  quart  milk  1  tablespoon  molasses 

2  eggs  Spice  to  taste 

Grate  the  potatoes  and  pour  the  milk  over  them  immediately'  before 

they  turn  black ;  then  beat  in  a  separate  bowl  the  eggs,  yolks  and  wdiites 

together,  add  sugar,  molasses,  then  add  all  milk  and  potatoes.     Serve 

hot  with  wine  sauce  and  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  a.  L.  Cox. 

BLACKBERRY  OR  HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING 

(An  Old  Maryland  Recipe) 

V2  pound  butter  Y2  pound  Crusader  flour 

1  pound  brown  sugar  4  eggs 

1  quart  berries 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  sugar,  then  the  flour  and  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  alternately,  then  the  beaten  whites.  Put  some 
of  the  flour  over  the  berries  and  add  them  to  the  mixture.  Bake  an  hour 
or  more  and  serve  wdth  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Blouxt  Cheshire. 

APPLE  DESSERT 

Stew  the  apples.  Be  guided  by  the  mould  you  want  to  put  them  in  as 
to  the  quantity.  It  is  a  little  difficult  to  get  them  worked  to  the  right 
state  to  mould  It  must  be  cooked  very  drj^  not  as  sweet  as  marmalade, 
but  stiff  enough  to  mould.  When  cold  and  stiff  turn  out  of  the  mould 
on  the  dish  you  want  to  serve  it  on.     Take  some  blanched  almonds  and 

64 


stick  about  over  it — as  thick  as  you  like.  When  ready  to  serve  have  a 
nice  rich  custard,  and  pour  over  it.  This  is  an  unusually  nice  dessert, 
and  not  troublesome  except  to  get  it  worked  to  the  right  state. 

Mks.  a.  W.  Haywood. 

COUSIN   POKIE'S   LEMON   PIE 

6  eggs  2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  butter  3  or  4  lemons 

1  cup  milk  4  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs 

Save  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue.     This  makes  two  pies. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Lawrence. 

LEMON  PIE 

Juice   and   a  grated  rind   of   1      2  cups  of  sugar 

lemon  4  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour 

1  pint  water  Butter  the  size  of  a  turkey  egg 

3  eggs       '     . 

Put  water  in  a  saucepan  and  set  on  stove.  As  soon  as  it  boils  add  the 
sugar  and  flour  which  have  been  thoroughly  mixed.  Stir  constantly. 
Then  stir  in  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  the  three  eggs  and  add  the  butter. 
Add,  lastly,  the  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemon. 

Pour  this  into  two  pie  crusts  which  have  alread}'  been  cooked.  Cover 
with  meringue  and  set  in  stove  to  brown. 

MERINGUE 

Whites  of  three  eggs  and  four  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Beat  whites 
thoroughly  and  add  sugar  slowly. 

,  Mrs.  M.  a.  Barber. 

CARAMEL  PIE  No.   1 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  Virginia  Dare  va- 

2  cups  brown  sugar  nilla 

2  eggs  14  cup  sweet  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  eggs,  beat  good  and  hard,  then 
add  flour  and  milk,  vanilla  last.  Bake  in  a  good  pie  crust  for  about  30 
minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Claiborn  Carr,  Durham,  N.  C. 

65 


1  cup  Karo  syrup 
1  cup  sugar 


CARAMEL  PIE  No.  2 

1  cup  butter 
4  ego-s 


Cook  this  on  top  of  stove  first,  then  put  in  a  pie  crust  and  bake.     This 
will  make  two  pies. 

Mrs.  Murray  Allen. 


CITRON  CUSTARD 


%  lb  of  butter 

'%  lb  citron  chopped  fine 


1  dozen  eggs 
1  lb  sus'ar 


Mix  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  good,  add  butter  and  citron.    Beat  whites 
of  eggs  and  add  last  and  bake  on  rich  erust. 

Mrs.  Charles  Farmer. 


BREAD  PUDDING  WITH  LEMON 


1  pint  milk 

2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 


1  tablespoon  sugar 
1  cup  bread  crumbs 


%  cup  sugar 

1  egg 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 


SAUCE 


^4  cup  butter 

^  lemon 

11/4  tablespoons  hot  water 

Mrs.  R.  Y.  McPhersojs-. 


SUET  PUDDING 

1  quart  flour  1  cup  molasses 

1  cup  beef  suet,  cut  fine  and  all  2  eggs 

strings  taken  out  Y2  lb  raisins 

1  cup  of  milk,  sour  or  sweet  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
y2  teaspoon  soda 


Boil  in  pudding  mould  2  hours. 


Mrs.  W.  T.  McGee. 


66 


MOLASSES  PIE 

2  eggs  1  cup  molasses 

V2  Clip  white  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter  or  crisco 

%  cup  sweet  milk  2  teaspoons  corn  starch 

1  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  l^/o  nutmeg 
Powder 

This  makes  one  pie. 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Busbee. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING  FOR  PIE 

1  cup  milk  2  egg  yolks 

1%    tablespoons    grated    choco-      %  cup  granulated  sugar 
late  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Let  milk  come  to  a  boil,  add  chocolate,  sugar,  milk,  flour  and  eggs. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  is  thick. 

Beat  together  II/2  tablespoons  butter,  %  cup  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
Virginia  Dare  vanille  and  spread  over  chocolate  filling.  Cover  with 
meringue  made  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  sugar. 

Mrs.  Claibokn  Caer.  Durham,  N.  C. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

2  squares  chocolate  grated  1  tablespoon  Virginia  Dare  Ex- 
1/2  cup  sugar  tract  of  vanilla 

Ys  cup  corn  starch  2  egg  whites 

3  egg  yolks  3  to  4  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  milk 

Beat  first  four  ingredients  together  and  pour  hot  scalded  milk  over 
it.  Cook  mixture  until  it  thickens,  either  in  double  boiler  or  stir  con- 
stantly if  over  direct  fire.     Remove  and  add  vanilla. 

Cook  pie  crust,  fill  with  mixture,  make  a  meringue  of  last  two  ingre- 
dients and  brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Drake. 
JELLY  PIES 

3  eggs  34  cup  milk 

%  cup  butter  1  glass  jelly  or  6  tablespoonfuls 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

67 


Beat  eggs  separately,  melt  butter  and  sugar,  stir  it  into  yolks,  add  milk, 
add  melted  jelly,  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  last.    This  makes  two  pies. 

Miss  Louise  T.  Busbee. 

CUSTARD  SOUFFLE 

Rub  two  scant  tablespoons  of  butter  to  a  cream,  stir  in  two  tablespoons 
of  flour,  pour  on  gradually  one  cup  of  hot  milk  and  cook  eight  minutes 
in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly.  Separate  yolks  and  whites  of  four 
eggs,  put  whites  in  the  ice  chest,  beat  the  yolks,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  add  to  the  milk,  etc.  Set  away  to  cool.  Half  an  hour  before 
serving,  beat  the  whites  stiff  and  cut  them  into  the  custard  lightly. 
Bake  in  buttered  pudding  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 
Serve  at  once  with  hard  butter  sauce,  or  liquid  sauce  if  desired, 

Mrs.  V.  E.  Tvkker. 

VINEGAR  CUSTARD 

2  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

4  eggs  Y2  cup  vinegar 

%  cup  butter 

Cook  the  sugar,  butter  and  vinegar  together  for  a  few  minutes.  Beat 
the  eggs  and  add  to  them  the  flour  mixed  with  water.  When  the  first 
mixture  is  cool  add  to  it  the  eggs  and  flour.  Put  on  a  rich  pastry  and 
bake.    This  is  enough  for  three  pies. 

Mrs.  Charles  Parmer. 

JELLY  CUSTARD 

4  eggs  1  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  jelly 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Stir  in  this  the  egg  yolks,  then  the 
jelly  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites.    Spread  on  a  rich  pastry  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Charles  Farmer. 

BOILED  CUSTARD 

1  quart  milk  1  rounded  teaspoon  corn  starch 

Yolks  of  6  eggs  Virginia  Dare  vanilla  to  taste 


6  tablespoons  sugar  (level) 


68 


Scald  milk  well  in  double  boiler,  then  add  it  very  gradually  to  the  six 
well  beaten  yolks,  return  to  the  fire  and  add  immediately  the  teaspoon 
of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Stir  this  mixture  constantly 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  As  soon  as  you  feel  it  thickening  even  the 
least  bit  take  off  fire  and  stir  in  sugar  and  vanilla  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
This  custard  should  be  cooked  over  a  very  moderate  fire  in  a  double 
boiler.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  six  eggs  stiff'  and  add  about  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  then  pour  scalding  water  over  it  to  keep  it  from  falling. 
When  you  put  the  custard  in  cups,  put  a  little  of  this  white  of  egg  on 
top  of  each  cup  and  it  makes  a  pretty  dessert. 

Mrs.  George  Syme. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD 

1/4  lb  white  sugar  ■        i/o  glass  of  sherry  wine. 
14  lb  grated  cocoanut  1  scant  teaspoon  of  Virginia 

3%  ounces  of  butter  Dare  extract 

Whites  of  six  eggs 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  on  a  very  rich  crust.     Makes  two  custards. 

Mrs.  V.  E.  Turner. 

LENA'S  DELIGHT 

1  quart  sweet  milk  .     ly^  envelopes  Chalmer's  Gela- 

3  eggs  '  tine 

1  cup  sugar  ■  1  quart  can  sliced  pineapple. 

1  small  bottle  cherries  1  teaspoon  Virginia  Dare  ex- 

1  pint  cream  tract  vanilla 

Put  milk  in  saucepan  and  bring  to  a  boil,  to  this  add  1  cup  sugar  and 
the  3  eggs  beaten  together.  Stir  over  fire  until  it  thickens.  Dissolve 
gelatine  in  a  cup  of  water,  add  this  and  the  juices  of  pineapple  and 
cherries  to  the  custard  after  it  is  taken  from  the  stove,  also  the  teaspoon 
of  vanilla.  Cut  up  pineapple  in  small  pieces,  add  this  and  the  cherries 
and  pint  of  cream  which  has  been  whipped,  to  the  custard  when  it  has 
cooled.    Pour  in  mould  and  put  in  ice  box  to  chill. 

Mrs.  Graham  Andrews. 

ITALIAN  CREAM 

Soak  envelope  of  Chalmer's  Gelatine  or  %  box  of  Nelson's  Gelatine 
IV2  hours  in  cold  milk.  Place  one  quart  of  sweet  rich  milk  in  vessel  and 
when  boiling  stir  in  beaten  yolks  of  8  eggs,  and  a  half  cup  of  sugar. 

69 


Highest    Purity 


f\^ 


'<^^   uEJ  HJ2  dS^    ;_i) 


Shredded     and     Granulated 

Pure,  old-fasliioned  Gelatine.  Ground  up.     Quicker  and  Easier. 


CHALMERS'  GELATINE  SALES   CORPORATION 


18    SOUTH    FOURTEENTH    STREET 


RICHMOND,    VIRGINIA 


70 


When  the  custard  begins  to  thicken,  remove  and  pour  into  a  deep  dish  or 
bowl  in  which  8  egg  whites  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  well 
together  and  flavor  with  Virginia  Dare  extract  of  vanilla  to  taste.  Then 
pour  into  mould  or  glass  dish.  A  convenient  dessert  for  Sunday  dinner 
as  it  can  be  made  on  Saturday  and  is  quite  delicious. 

Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Johnson,  Sr. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  No.  1 

1  pint  cream   (double)  1  teaspoon    Virginia    Dare    ex- 

1  tablespoon   Chalmer's  gelatine         tract  vanilla 
Two-thirds  cup  XXXX  sugar 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  half  cup  of  cold  water,  let  it  soak  while  you 
whip  cream.  Turn  the  cream  into  a  bowl  and  sprinkle  over  with  ST;gar. 
Dissolve  the  gelatine  over  hot  water,  add  four  tablespoons  milk  and  strain 
it  into  the  whipped  cream,  add  flavoring.  Stand  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of 
crushed  ice  or  ice  water.  Stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Turn 
at  once  into  a  mould  and  put  in  a  cold  place.  Line  mould  with  lady- 
flngers  or  serve  with  sponge  cake. 


Mrs.  Ben  Moore. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  No.  2 


1  pint  double  cream  1  cup  sugar 

1  package  Chalmer's  gelatine  Whites  ol  two  eggs 

1  cup  sweet  milk  Virginia  Dare  vanilla 

Put  milk  and  gelatine  in  a  sauce  pan,  set  on  a  stove  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved.    Then  set  aside  to  cool. 

Whip  cream  until  thick  and  then  add  sugar.  Then  add  slowly  the 
gelatine  and  milk.  Add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs  and 
flavor  with  vanilla. 

Pour  the  Charlotte  Eusse  into  a  shallow  bowl  lined  with  lady-fingers. 

Mrs.  M.  a.   Baeber. 

CARAMEL  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

1  pint  milk  1  pint  double  cream 

2  eggs  One-third  package  Chalmer's 
2  cups  brown  sugar  gelatine 

1  cup  water 

71 


Take  one  pint  of  milk  and  two  eggs  and  make  a  custard,  then  take  one 
cup  of  brown  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  water  and  make  a  syrup.  Take 
other  cup  of  sugar  and  caramel  it,  put  that  in  syrup  when  cold.  Mix 
gelatine   (which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  milk)   and  custard,  add 

whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Murray  Allex. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM 

1  pint  double  cream  ^,^  cup  sugar 

14  pint  milk  1  teaspoon    Virginia    Dare    ex- 

1  tablespoon  granulated  dial-  tract  vanilla 

mer's  gelatine  1  box  lady-fingers 

Mix  cream,  sugar  and  vanilla  and  beat  until  stiff.  Put  gelatine  in 
milk  and  heat  in  double  boiler  until  gelatine  is  dissolved,  but  do  not 
boil.  Line  bowl  with  lady  fingers.  Pour  milk  and  gelatine  into  the 
beaten  cream  and  pour  this  mixture  into  the  bowl  of  lady  fingers  and 
put  in  ice  chest  until  it  hardens. 

Mrs.  Alle-n  G.  Rogers. 


•72 


ICE  CREAM  AND  FROZEN  DESSERTS 

NESSEROLE   PUDDING    (FROZEN) 

1  quart  rich  custard  2  slices  of  crystallized  piueapple, 

1/4  lb  shelled  pecans,  chopped  cut  small 

small  1  quart  of  whipped  cream 

14  lb  blanched  almonds,  chopped 

small 

Partly  freeze  the  custard  before  adding  the  fruit  and  nuts,  freeze 
slightly  more  then  pack  into  moulds  till  serving  time.  It  should  be  very 
hard. 

EGG  NOG  SAUCE  FOR  NESSEROLE  PUDDING 

3  egg  yolks  1  cup  of  whiskey 

3  tablespoons  of  sugar 

Thoroughly  mix  the  egg  yolks,  then  add  the  sugar  slowly  and  then  the 
whiskey  quite  slowly,  working  all  to  a  thick  consistency.  Just  at  serving 
time  add  3  or  4  tablespoons  Oi  stiffly  beaten  cream.  Serve  in  a  separate 
bowl  and  pass  with  the  moulded  pudding. 

Mrs.  Ashby  Lee  Baker. 

MANHATTAN  PUDDING  FROZEN 

1  pint  of  double  cream  whipped      1  cup  pidverized  sugar 
1  cup  pulverized  sugar  I/4  cup  lemon  juice 

1^4:  cups  of  orange  juice 

Whip  cream,  add  one  cup  pulverized  sugar,  orange  and  lemon  juice, 
with  one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  put  juices  in  bottom  of  mould,  cream 
on  top,  and  pack  with  ice  and  salt  for  four  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  Van  B.  Metts. 

MAPLE  PARFAIT 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  light,  add  one  cup  of  maple  syrup 
and  continue  to  beat  until  the  two  are  thoroughly  mixed.  Place  the 
mixture  over  a  slow  fire,  or  use  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until 
the  eggs  have  cooked  enough  to  make  a  thick  custard.     One-half  cupful 

73 


Punch  Sherbet 

When  in  Durham 

Pay  Us  a  Visit 

We'll  show  you  how  and  why  we  make  the 

^est  Ice  Cream  in  the  State 


JVe  solicit    orders  for  all  sorts  of  affairs 


Durham  Ice  Cream  Company 

Incorporated 
Box  250  DURHAM,  N.  C. 

Main  at  Duke  Streets 


ICE  CREAM   SPECIALISTS 


Blocks  Fancy  Ices 


74 


chopped  almonds  may  be  added  if  desired.  Beat  the  custard  until  cold ; 
it  will  then  be  very  light.  Add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  one  pint  of 
heavy  cream,  and  beat  until  stiff,  add  the  custard,  mix  lightly  but 
thoroughly  and  turn  mixture  into  a  mould  holding  three  pints.  Pack 
in  ice  and  salt  and  let  sand  four  hours. 

Mks.  Louis  Mahlee. 

FROZEN  PUDDING 

6  oranges  %  cup  walnut  meats 

1  cup  sugar  Cream  and  nuts  for  top 

1  pint  cream 

Squeeze  and  strain  oranges  and  mix  with  the  sugar.  Let  stand  an  hour 
or  more.  Whip  cream  sweeten  to  taste.  Put  orange  juice  in  bottom  of 
mould,  stir  nuts  in  whipped  cream.  Pour  this  on  orange  juice  in  mould. 
Pack  in  ice  and  salt  until  frozen.  AVhen  read}^  to  serve  turn  out  of 
mould.  Whip  other  cream,  stir  in  walnuts  and  pour  on  top  and  around 
sides  of  pudding,  sprinkle  more  nuts  on  top.     This  serves  six  ])eople. 

Mrs.  Allen  G.  Rogers. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

%  pint  maple  syrup  3  eggs 

1  pint  cream 

Beat  yolks  and  syrup  together,  heat  to  boiling  point  and  cool.  Beat 
whites  and  cream  together.  Pour  first  mixture  into  this,  beating  all  the 
time.    Add  nuts  if  desired.    Pack  and  let  stand  four  hours. 

Mrs.  W.   B.   Drake. 

GINGER  MOUSSE 

1%  quarts  double  cream  A  few  maraschino  cherries 

14  pound  nut  meats  1  tablespoonful  Virginia  Dare 

1  cup  sugar  Extract  vanilla  or  cup  of  wine 

V2  pint  preserved  ginger  with 
syrup 

Whip  cream,  ginger  syrup,  sugar  and  vanilla  or  wine  until  stiff,  then 
stir  in  chopped  ginger,  nuts  and  cherries.  Pour  in  mould  or  coffee 
cans  with  close  fitting  tops.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  four  hours. 

Mrs.  Alfred  M.  Maupin. 

75 


STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM 

3  quarts  capped  berries  3  coffee  cups  sugar. 

Mash  berries  and  sugar  to  a  jam  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  to  this 
two  quarts  of  cream  sweetened  with  two  coffee  cups  of  sugar  and  freeze. 

Miss  Pattie  Mordecai. 

FRUIT  SHERBET 

Two  quarts  of  water  and  one  pound  of  sugar  well  boiled.  When  cold 
add  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  and  the  sliced  rind  of  two,  and  let  stand 
for  half  an  hour.  Strain  and  freeze.  Slice  one  orange  as  thinly  as  pos- 
sible without  removing  the  rind.  When  the  lemon  ice  begins  to 
thicken  add  this  sliced  orange,  the  juice  of  three  oranges  and  a  can  of 
grated   pineapple,   freeze  thoroughly.     AVhen   serving   add  maraschino 

cherries  to  each  plate. 

Mrs.  Ed  Chambers  Smith. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM  No.  1 

1  quart  milk  1  pint  fresh  cream 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs  beaten  very  light 

5  tablespoons  chocolate 

Put  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler  and  blend.  Add  one-half  cup  of 
water  and  a  little  milk  and  boil  until  smooth.  Heat  milk  to  boiling 
point  and  pour  slowly  into  sugar  and  eggs.  Stir  in  chocolate,  beat  well 
three  minutes  and  return  to  boiler.  Heat  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring 
constantly.  Take  from  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Add  a  little  Virginia 
Dare  vanilla  and  when  thoroughly  cold  beat  in  the  cool  cream  which 
has  been  heated.    The  heating  prevents  it  from  turning  to  butter.  Freeze. 

Alternate  to  freeze  well  1  cup  of  cooking  salt  and  3  cups  of  crushed 
ice.  Pack  and  let  stand  five  minutes  before  freezing.  Pack  with  ice 
cream  salt.     This,  is  quick  and  sure. 

Miss  Mattie  H.  Bailey. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM  No.  2 

4  ounces  of  chocolate  2  tablespoonfuls  Virginia  Dare 

6  ounces  of  sugar  vanilla 
1  pint  of  milk                                       4  eggs 

1  pint  of  whipped  cream 

76 


Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  little  water,  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk,  take 
off  and  pour  over  the  eggs  and  sugar  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  thick 
cream,  add  the  vanilla  and  set  to  cool,  then  add  the  remaining  cream 
and  freeze. 

Mrs.  Platt  D.  Walker. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

'■_\ 
1  cup  boiling  water  1  pinch  of  salt 

1  square  of  chocolate  1  cup  sugar 

Cook  all  together  slowly  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  maple  syrup,  or 
thicker  if  desired.  Just  before  serving  add  Virginia  Dare  extract  of 
vanilla.    This  will  keep  and  can  be  reheated. 

Mrs.  B.  W.  Baker. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 

2  qts  of  milk  2  lbs  brown  sugar  put  in  pan 
12  egg  yolks  with    %    pt    of    water    and 

piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg 

Burn  brown  sugar  and  water  to  a  dark  brown,  add  this  to  the  custard. 
When  cold  add  1  quart  of  cream.  Then  put  in  %  lb  of  shelled  almonds 
chopped  fine.  This  is  nice  to  make  in  combination  with  Angel's  Food 
cake,  using  whites  in  this  way. 

Mrs.  RuFrs  Huxter. 


77 


STAUDT'S  BAKERY 


HARRISON    AVENUE 


My  Mother^ s  Bread 

Pies  and 

Cakes 


THE  BEST  IN   RALEIGH 


MODERN  HOUSEWIVES 


DEMAND 


"  JVhite  Frost " 

The  Modern  Refrigerator 

All  metal-white  enamel  through- 
out. Revolving  food  shelves — 
all  parts  removable  for  cleaning. 

Write  for  catalogue 

The  Home  Products  Corporation 

JACKSON,    MICHIGAN 

CAROLINA  HARDWARE  COMPANY,  Distributors 


♦!«'>■• 


78 


MISCELLANEOUS 

LAYER  SANDWICHES 

Take  a  Pullman  loaf  of  bread  and  cut  the  long  way,  making  about  five 
slices.  Spread  various  mixtures  between,  as  peanut  butter,  olives,  bacon, 
cheese,  pimento,  Salad  King  Olive  Mayonnaise.  Press  together  firmly 
and  slice  across  the  layers. 

Mrs.  R.  Y.  McPherson. 

\  HOT  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

1  lb  cheese  1  teaspoon  of  salt 

14  lb  of  butter  1  teaspoon  mustard 

1  cup  Campbell's  tomato  soup  Cayenne  pepper 

2  eggs 

Let  butter  melt  in  sauce  pan  or  double  boiler,  then  add  grated  cheese 
and  tomato  soup  and  seasoning.  Cook  until  smooth,  beat  the  two  eggs 
lightly  and  stir  into  ingredients  until  it  thickens  sufficiently.  Let  it 
cool.  Cut  bread  round  and  spread  the  mixture  between  and  put  in  hot 
oven  to  brown.    The  cheese  filling  will  keep  indefinitely  in  cool  place. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Manor. 

CHEESE  PASTE 

(Good  for  Sandwiches  or  as  a  Salad) 

1  lb  American  cheese,  creamed        1  stalk  of  celery 
with  dressing    (maj^onnaise)         1  onion  chopped 
1  bottle  stuffed  olives  Run  through  meat  chopper 

Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Clatborn  Cakr,  Durham,  N.  C. 

RED  DEVIL 

1  lb  cheese  Butter,  salt,  red  pepper 

1  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup  1  egg 

Worcestershire  sauce 

Cut  cheese,  put  cheese  and  soup  in  double  boiler,  melt,  season  with 

red  pepper,  salt,  Worcestershire.    Beat  in  egg.    Pour  on  toast. 

Louise  T.  Busbee. 
79 


TO  BLANCH  ALMONDS 

Put  them  in  hot  water  for  a  few  moments  and  then  in  cold  and  re- 
move the  skins. 

Mrs.  R.  Y.  McPherson. 
EGG  OMELET 

Take  four  eggs  beat  very  light,  separately.  Add  a  little  salt  and  two 
tablespoons  sweet  milk.  Have  ready  a  frying  pan  with  a  tablespoon  of 
butter.  Have  the  pan  very  hot  on  top  the  stove.  Fold  the  whites  into 
the  yolks  without  beating  much.  Stir  slightly,  then  pour  into  the  hot 
pan.  Leave  it  on  top  the  stove,  and  while  cooking  shake  the  pan.  When 
it  is  brown  at  the  bottom  put  the  pan  in  the  bake  oven  for  a  few  min- 
utes and  until  it  is  well  set,  not  too  long.  Then  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 
It  should  be  eaten  right  away.  Have  a  flat  dish  to  take  it  up  on,  double 
it  over,  and  handle  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  it.  This  quantity  makes 
a  very  good  size  dish,  enough,  for  helping  six  people. 

Mrs.  a.  W.  Haywood. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

Line  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  buttered  stale  bread  (cut  one-half 
inch  thick  and  cut  slice  four  times).  Make  custard  of  a  cup  of  milk,  1 
egg  and  beat,  add  seasoning.  Sprinkle  over  bread  one-half  cup  grated 
cheese,  then  pour  custard  over  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  John  Andrews. 


80 


CANDY 

CANDY  AND  SUGAR 

No  attempt  is  made  to  give  any  recipes  for  making  candy  as  those 
formula  below  have  been  tested  by  the  various  ones  in  their  own  home 
and  have  been  found  successful.  A  short  description,  however,  of  the 
various  ingredients  commonly  used  in  candy  would  seem  to  be  helpful 
to  the  average  one  in  making  candy  and  in  understanding  the  recipes 
as  given  in  various  papers  and  cook  books. 

Sugar  is,  of  course,  familiar  to  all ;  yet  its  action  in  the  cooking  of 
candy  is  peculiar.  When  just  sugar  and  water  are  cooked  together  it 
turns  back  to  sugar,  or  "grains  up."  The  addition  of  an  acid  prevents 
this,  as  is  seen  when  vinegar  (acetic  acid)  is  added.  Cream  of  tartar 
(grape  acid)  is,  however,  the  best,  as  it  is  tasteless  and  seems  to  give  the 
best  and  most  uniform  results.  I:,  however,  too  much  cream  of  tartar 
is  added  the  result  is  a  stisky  mass  which  rapidly  absorbs  the  moisture 
from  the  air  and  is  too  soft  to  handle. 

Glucose  or  Corn  Syrup  is  made  from  Corn  Starch  treated  with  nitric 
acid  and  bleached  with  sulphuric  acid  in  its  manufacture.  This  ingre- 
dient bears  the  same  relation  to  candy  making  as  any  starch  does  to 
cooking,  as  in  the  making  of  boiled  custard,  etc.  If,  however,  and 
formula  calls  for  corn  syrup  the  Cream  of  Tartar  must  be  left  out  as 
the  necessary  acid  is  contained  in  the  corn  syrup.  Only  a  small  per- 
centage of  corn  syrup  can  be  used,  or  the  result  will  be  exceedingly 
sticky  and  tough. 

The  cooking  of  Candy  to  the  right  temperature  is  the  most  important 
part  of  candy-making,  whether  at  home  or  in  the  factory.  Thus,  when- 
ever a  thermometer  can  be  used,  the  best  results  can  always  be  obtained. 
There  are,  however,  many  kinds  of  candies  which  can  not  be  cooked 
with  a  thermometer;  thus  a  brief  description  of  the  tests  best  used  to  de- 
termine the  various  cooks  is  briefly  given  below: 

Soft  Ball 

The  first  practical  cook  for  fondants,  caramels  and  fudges,  especialh' 
those  which  require  constant  stirring,  is  the  "soft  ball."  This  is  ascer- 
tained when  a  certain  amount  of  the  material  placed  in  water  of  medium 
temperature  can  be  rolled  into  a  soft  ball  (Thermometer  cook  240  de- 
grees). The  Hard  Ball  which  is  used  for  making  candy  in  the  summer 
is  merely  that  the  ball  becomes  harder  and  firmer  (Thermometer  cook 
248  degrees). 

81 


Soft  Crack 

The  next  degree  reached,  after  continuing  the  boiling  for  a  short  time, 
is  the  Soft  Crack.  Try  in  the  water,  as  before,  and  if  the  sj'rnp  cracks 
when  pressed  by  the  finger  and  thumb,  but  on  holding  a  moment,  forms 
into  hard  ball  again,  it  is  the  degree  sought.  The  thermometer  shows 
this  to  be  252  degrees. 

Crack 

Test  as  before,  and  if  the  syrup  cracks  easily  and  will  not  form  a 
ball,  it  has  reached  the  crack.     The  thermometer  marks  this  degree  260. 


Hard  Crack 

The  next  degree  we  use,  is  when  after  being  tested  as  before,  it  cracks 
like  egg  shells,  and  will  eat  up  readily.  The  thermometer  shows  this  at 
290  degrees. 

The  degrees  higher  than  the  Hard  Crack  or  290  degrees  are  used  only 
for  such  goods  as  machine  drops,  stick  candies,  etc.,  which  are  not  prac- 
tical for  home  manufacture. 

W.    H.    ROYSTER. 


CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS 

2  lbs  brown  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  cake  or  i/o  lb  chocolate  14  lb  butter 

Boil  25  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  flavor  with  Virginia  Dare  extract 
of  vanilla,  beat  until  creamy.  Pour  at  once  into  buttered  dish,  cool 
slightly  and  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Gavin  Dortch. 

JETS 

2  lbs  confectioner's  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  lb  butter  1  teaspoon  Virginia  Dare  va- 

1/2  cake  Baker's  chocolate  nilla 

14  cake  paraffin 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  salt  and  vanilla,  moisten  with  milk  (just 
enough  to  stick  together)  and  make  into  balls.  Melt  chocolate  and  para- 
ffin together  and  dip  balls  into  mixture,  using  butter  pick  or  nut  pick 
for  purpose.    Put  nut  on  top  of  each  ball. 

Mrs.  Rebecca  Wood.  Edenton,  N.  C. 
82 


NUT  AND  DATE  LOAF 

3  cups  white  sugar  1  box  dates 
%  cup  milk  1  cup  nuts 

Cook  sugar  and  milk  until  it  i'orms  a  ball  in  cold  water.  Stir  in  dates 
that  have  had  seeds  removed.  Just  before  it  gets  stiff  stir  in  nuts.  Have 
a  wet  towel  rung  almost  dry,  pour  mixture  on  this  and  roll  over,  twist- 
ing ends  until  candy  is  in  a  nice  roll,  let  cool.  This  can  be  cut  in  slices 
as  thin  as  paper. 

Mrs.  R.  Y.  McPherson 
PECAN  CANDY 

4  cups  brown  sugar  ^  cup  sweet  milk 
1/2  cup  butter                                      1  cup  pecan  kernels 

Mix  sugar,  butter  and  milk  well  and  boil  till  it  spins  threads  when 
poured  from  spoon,  then  take  from  the  stove  and  add  the  nuts  and  beat 
the  mixture  till  it  turns  back  to  sugar.     Pour  in  a  flat  dish  well  buttered, 

and  when  cool  cut  in  squares. 

Miss  Pattie  Moedecai. 

CHOCOLATE  CANDY 

3  cups  granulated  sugar  IV2  cups  milk 
I/O  cake  chocolate 

Put  on  stove  and  cook  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  water,  add  one  tea- 
spoon of  Virginia  Dare  vanilla  and  a  pinch  0':'  Royal  Baking  Powder  and 
pour  in  platter  dobbed  with  butter.  When  cold  beat  until  creamy  and 
drop  from  spoon. 

Mrs.  Claiboen  Caer,  Durham,  N.  C. 

TAFFY  CANDY 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  water 

8  tablespoons  molasses  4  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  vinegar  V2  teaspoon  soda 

Put  first  four  ingredients  in  kettle  and  boil  until  when  tried  in  cold 
water  the  mixture  will  become  brittle.  Then  add  butter  and  lastly  the 
soda.  Pour  on  buttered  plates,  and  when  cold  enough  to  handle  pull 
until  porus  and  a  light  color.  Pull  out  in  a  long  rope  and  cut  in  small 
pieces  with  knife  or  scissors.     This  will  fill  two  plates. 

Mrs.  R.  D.  W.  Connor,  Chapel  Hill,  N.  C. 
83 


TAFFY 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  I/2  cup  water 

1  cup  molasses  I/2  teaspoon   Virginia  Dare   ex- 

1  teaspoonful  vinegar  tract  vanilla 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Put  all  in  a  pan  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Do  not  stir  after 
the  syrup  begins  to  boil. 

Cook  until  it  will  form  firm  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Then 
put  in  the  vanilla  and  pour  the  candy  in  a  greased  platter  to  cool.  When 
almost  cold,  take  out  and  pull  until  white.    Cut  in  small  pieces. 

Mrs.  Jas.  A.  Briggs,  Jr. 


84 


BEVERAGES 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

3  Clips  sugar  11/2  pints  Virginia  Dare  ginger 

3  cups  hot  tea  -  ale 

2%  cups  orange  juice  II/2  pints  Appollinaris  or  White 

1  cup  lemon  juice  Bock  water. 

Dissolve  sugar  in  hot  tea  and  when  cool  add  fruit  juices.  Just  before 
serving  have  ready  a  block  of  fruit  ice  and  over  this  pour  the  above 
liquid,  the  AYliite  Rock  water  being  poured  together  with  the  ginger  ale 
just  before  arrival  of  guests.  Maraschino  cherries  are  dropped  into  each 
cup  as  served.  The  best  fruit  ice  for  the  block  is  a  frozen  water  ice 
or  sherbet,  part  orange  and  part  lemon.  Any  milk  or  cream  ice  is  a 
fatal  mistake.    Eight  times  this  receipt  will  serve  250  guests. 

Mrs.  Charles  E.  Johnson,  Se. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

Juice  of  12  oranges  1  quart  water 

Juice  of  8  lemons  2  baked  apples 

1  lb  sugar  2  pints  Virginia  Dare  ginger 

4  pints  Appollinaris  ale  ,  '  "'. 

1  can  pineapple  '  I'' 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  and  when  cold  add  fruit  juices.  Do 
not  add  Appollinaris  and  ginger  ale  until  you  are  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  S.  F.  Telfair. 
Mrs.  T.  M.  Ashe. 
BLACKBERRY   ACID 

Three  quarts  of  berries  washed  and  mashed.  One  quart  of  good  vine- 
gar, pour  over  the  berries  and  let  stand  all  night.  Then  to  one  pint  of 
juice  add  one  pound  of  sugar  and  boil  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Henry  R.  Bryan,  New  Bern,  N.  C. 

RUSSIAN  TEA  :  , 

4  oranges  1  lemon  ,; ';        ..      [ 

Boil  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  with  five  cups  water  and  rind  of  one 
orange,  (strain).  Mix  and  add  at  last  minute  to  eight  cups  of  good 
tea.    Put  cloves  in  each  cup.    Makes  twenty  cups. 

Mrs.  Richard  S.  Busbee. 
MRSr  Murray  Allen. 
85 


I  i 

j   Make  your  Kitchen  Work  Easy  i 


u. 


se  a 


Ho  osier  Kitchen  Cabinet 


FOR  SALE  ON  EASY  TERMS  BY 


Roy  all  &  Borden 


86 


PRE  SERVES,  MARMALADE,  PICKLES,  ETC. 

Mrs.  Jane  S.  McKimmon 

To  make  preserves,  take  whole  berries,  small  fruit  or  uniform  pieces 
of  larger  fruit  and  cook  them  in  syrup  until  they  are  saturated.  The 
proportions  are  usually  1  pound  of  fruit  to  %  pound  of  sugar. 

When  fruit  is  cooked  in  syrup  diffusion  between  the  fruit  juices  and 
the  syrup  takes  place.  If  the  syrup  is  thin  when  the  fruit  is  put  into 
it,  the  mixing  or  diffusion  of  the  fruit  juices  and  the  syrup,  through 
the  cells  of  the  fruit,  takes  place  very  evenly  and  the  fruit  remains 
plump ;  but  if  the  syrup  is  very  heavy,  the  fruit  juices  are  drawn  out 
rapidly  and  the  heavy  syrup  cannot  enter  the  fruit  rapidly  enough  to 
prevent  shrinkage  or  shriveling. 

It  is  necessary,  therefore,  to  start  preserves  in  a  thin  sj^rup.  Boil 
until  the  fruit  is  done.  Remove  the  fruit  and  place  it  in  a  shallow  dish, 
allowing  it  to  stand  in  some  of  the  syrup  while  the  remainder  boils 
thicker.  Pour  this  thick  syrup  over  the  fruit  on  the  platter  and  let 
stand  until  cold  or  until  the  next  day,  when  the  whole  may  be  returned 
to  the  kettle,  allowed  to  come  to  a  boil,  and  the  fruit  removed  and  set 
aside  in  a  shallow  dish  until  the  syrup  is  again  boiled  down.  When  thick 
enough  this  syrup  is  poured  over  the  fruit  as  at  first  and  the  vessel 
covered  and  allowed  to  stand  until  next  morning.  The  fruit  is  packed 
cold  in  jars,  the  syrup  poured  in  little  by  little  as  the  packing  progresses, 
and  until  the  jar  is  quite  full.  The  packer  must  use  a  thin  reed  paddle 
to  remove  air  bubbles  and  to  push  the  fruit  in  place. 

All  jars  packed  with  preserves  must  be  processed  after  filling  15 
minutes  to  destroy  mold  spores.  Fill  the  jar.  Exhaust  five  minutes. 
Process  15  minutes. 

Never  use  metal  kettle  for  preserves,  jams,  or  jellies.  Porcelain-lined 
or  agate  kettles  are  desirable. 

Always  cook  preserves,  jams,  and  jellies  in  open  vessel  that  evapora- 
tion may  take  place  easily. 

87 


Franklin  Sugar  Etiquette 


The  right  sugar  for  each  purpose  is  very  essential  to  obtain  the  best 
results  in  home  cooking.     Observe  the  following  rules  for  sugar  uses. 

FRANKLIN  GRANULATED  for  baking,  cooking,  sweetening, 
candy  meiking  and  general  household  uses. 

FRANKLIN  DAINTY  LUMPS  for  hot  tea,  coffee,  and  best  suited 
for  social  occasions. 

FRANKLIN  POWDERED  for  fruits,  cereals,  cold  drinks,  cocoa  and 
chocolate,  dusting  pies  and  cookies. 

FRANKLIN  XXXX  CONFECTIONERS  for  icings,  fondants  and 
uncooked  candies. 

FRANKLIN  OLD  FASHIONED  BROWN  for  baked  beans,  ginger- 
bread, candied  sweet  potatoes,  tarts  and  cakes. 

FRANKLIN  GOLDEN  SYRUP  for  cooking  sauces,  baked  apples, 
puddings,  candy  making,  waffles  and  griddle  cakes. 


'A  FRANKLIN  CANE  SUGAR  FOR  EVERY  USE" 


FRANKLIN  SUGAR  REFINING  COMPANY 


MARMALADE 

1  orange  1  lemon 

1  large  grapefruit 

Eemove  ends,  pith  and  seeds.  Cut  up  in  small  pieces  and  put  through 
food  chopper.  Measure  and  put  twice  as  much  water  with  it  and  let 
stand  till  next  day.  Put  on  fire  and  boil  five  minutes.  Take  off  and  add 
5  pounds  sugar  and  let  stand  until  next  day.  Put  over  fire  and  cook 
slowly  for  2  hours. 

This  will  make  from  12  to  14  glasses. 

Miss  Florence  Jones. 


APRICOT  MARMALADE 

Select  the  best  dried  apricots  of  the  finest  color,  take  one  pound  of 
these  and  soak  for  two  days  in  four  cupfuls  of  water.  At  the  end  of  this 
time  add  one  cupful  of  juice  from  a  large  can  of  pineapple,  boil  gently 
for  one  hour.  Then  add  eight  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  one  large  cupful 
of  canned  pineapple  cut  in  small  dice.  Simmer  gentl}'  until  the  mixture 
will  jell  when  tried  on  a  cold  plate.    Stir  constantly  towards  the  last. 

Mrs.  V.  E.  Turner. 


PEAR  PRESERVES 

Pears  should  be  peeled  and  cut  fine  like  chips,  enough  to  make  8 
pounds.  To  this  add  8  pounds  of  sugar,  i/o  pound  candied  ginger  cut 
fine.  Boil  slowly  1%  hours.  To  this  mixture  add  4  lemons  which  have 
been  chopped  fine  and  cooked  in  sufficient  water  to  make  them  soft.  Cook 
all  together  for  %  hour. 

Mrs.  B.  W.  Baker. 


PEACH  PRESERVES  ,  «. 

Peel  peaches,  cut  in  halves  if  small,  in  quarters  if  large.  Use  1  pound 
of  fruit  to  %  pound  sugar.  Put  enough  water  with  sugar  to  make  a  thin 
syrup  and  proceed  as  in  directions  for  preserving.  Pack  in  a  jar  as 
symmetrically  as  possible.    Paddle. 

Mrs.  Jane  S.  McKimmon. 

89 


MRS.  CHARLES  ROOT'S  PEACH  PICKLE 

To  6  pounds  of  peaches  put  3  pounds  of  sugar  and  1  pint  of  vinegar, 
mace,  allspice,  cinnamon,  each  a  tablespoonful  and  6  cloves  to  be  beaten, 
tied  up  in  a  muslin  bag  and  dropped  in  the  peaches  while  boiling.  Boil, 
stirring  constantly,  and  when  a  straw  may  be  stuck  with  ease  into  a 
peach  take  from  syrup.  After  all  peaches  are  taken  out  boil  syrup  until 
quite  thick  and  pour  over  peaches. 

Mrs.  Watkins  Robaeds,  Sanford,  N.  C. 

SWEET  PICKLED  CUCUMBERS 

3  pounds  sugar  2  teaspoons  of  mace 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon  2  teaspoons  ginger 

2  tablespoons  celery  seed  2  tablespoons  of  grated  horse- 

2  tablespoons  turmeric  radish 

1  tablespoon  black  pepper  1  tablespoon  of  garlic 

3  pods  of  green  pepper  Piece  of  alum  14  size  of  an  egg 

2  teaspoons  of  cloves 

Take  cucumbers  out  of  brine,  soak  until  fresh.  Count  five  dozen,  split 
them  if  large,  small  ones  too  if  you  like.     Pour  over  these  ingredients 

vinegar  to  cover. 

Mes.  C.  R.  Lee. 
SPICED   WILD   GRAPE   JELLY 

Select  grapes  which  are  still  rather  green.  Pick  them  from  the  stems 
and  wash  them.  To  a  peck  of  the  prepared  grapes  allow  one  quart  of 
good  vinegar  and  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  each  of  finely  broken  stick  cin- 
namon and  whole  cloves.  Put  all  together  in  a  porcelain  lined  or  granite 
kettle,  bring  slowlj^  to  boiling  point,  and  let  simmer  gently  until  the 
grapes  are  quite  soft.  Then  strain  through  folded  cheese  cloth  and  let 
drain.  Do  not  press.  When  the  juice  has  dripped  through,  let  it  boil  for 
twenty  minutes.  Heat  six  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  Move  the  kettle 
from  the  flame,  add  the  hot  sugar,  stir  until  it  is  dissolved,  then  put  over 
the  fire  again  and  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  William  Bailey. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

30  large  ripe  tomatoes  8  green  pe]3pers 

7  onions  14  tablespoons  brown  sugai 

2  red  peppers  2  tablespooons  salt 

90 


Peel  and  slice  tomatoes,  add  chopped  onions  and  peppers,  salt  and 
sugar.  Cook  until  nearly  done,  add  vinegar  (2  cups)  and  cook  until 
thick.  Pour  boiling  water  over  tomatoes  to  remove  skins.  More  sugar 
may  be  added  if  desired,  also  white  mustard  seed  and  celery  seed,  these 
last  are  not  necessary,  but  may  be  used  if  so  desired. 

Mes.  Alfeed  Williams. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

Fifty  medium-sized  cucumbers.  Put  in  brine  for  three  days,  take  out, 
wash  and  put  in  cold  water  for  twenty-four  hours.  Green  by  putting 
on  stove  layer  of  cucumber  and  layer  of  grape  or  green  cabbage  leaves, 
a  good  tablespoon  of  alum  and  weak  vinegar  to  cover.  Steam  over  slow 
fire  till  green,  but  do  not  let  get  soft.  Drop  in  cold  water,  when  cold 
chop  in  squares  and  put  in  stone  jar.     Boil 

l^/o   quarts  vinegar  3  hot  peppers,  seeded  and 

2%  pounds  brown  sugar  chopped 

1  ounce  mustard  seed  1%  slices  lemon 

1  ounce  celery  seed  1  pint  button  onions 

Pinch  of  mace  1  handful  whole  cloves  and  all- 

spice mixed 

Pour  over  cucumbers  and  when  cool  add  2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil. 
This  gains  flavor  by  being  kept  for  a  few  months. 

Mes.  Johjs^  Waed. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLE 

(From  Recipes  of  Mrs.  E.  H.  Mitchel,  1844) 
Six  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes,  4  pounds  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar, 
mace,  allspice,  red  pepper,  ginger  and  cloves  to  your  taste.     Take  the 
skins  off  by  pouring  hot  water  over  the  tomatoes,  put  all  in  a  kettle  and 
boil  till  as  thick  as  preserves. 

Mes.  W.  a.  Montgomeey. 

FIG  PICKLES 

Simmer  in  water  with  sufficient  alum  to  bite  your  tongue.  Drop  in 
cold  water  for  one  hour.  Make  a  syrup  of  3  pounds  sugar,  1  pint  vine- 
gar, 6  pounds  figs  before  putting  into  alum.  Boil  figs  in  syrup  until 
clear.    Flavor  with  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace. 

Mes.  W.  T.  McGee. 
91 


CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

Split  cucumbers  in  halves  10  cents  worth  each  of  black  and 

2  gallon  jar  cucumbers  M^hite  mustard  seed 

5  pounds  brown  sugar  10  cents  worth  turmeric 

6  large  onions  1  box  plain  mustard   (%  lb) 

Vinegar  to  cover  whole 

Put  in  alternate  layers  of  cucumbers,  sugar,  onions  cut  thin,  mustard 
and  mustard  seed  and  turmeric,  until  jar  is  full.  Scald  vinegar  and  pour 
over  all.    If  you  wish  spice,  add  to  vinegar.    Good  in  a  week. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Wkight. 


CABBAGE  PICKLE 

Cut  one  gallon  of  cabbage  in  quarters,  or  smaller  pieces  if  preferred, 
put  in  trays  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  all  night.  The  next 
morning  shake  most  of  the  salt  off  and  put  in  kettle  and  cover  with  vine- 
gar and  boil  one  hour.  Pour  off  this  vinegar  and  cover  with  more,  add- 
ing to  it : 

1%  gills  mustard  seed  1  teaspoon  cloves 

1%  pounds  brown  sugar  i/o  pint  chopped  onions 

2%   tablespoons  of  ground  l^/o  ounces  celery  seed 

mustard  1  ounce  turmeric 

21/2  tablespoons  black  pepper  1  handful  grated  horseradish 
1  tablespoon  allspice 

Boil  one  hour.    Spices  must  be  beaten. 

Mrs.  Ed  Chambers  Smith. 

MRS.  C.  B.  BENSON'S  GREEN  TOMATO  SOY 

Put  la^'ers  of  green  tomatoes  cut  in  slices,  and  onions  sliced,  in  a  jar, 
with  salt  sprinkled  between  each  layer ;  let  it  stand  36  hours,  then  wash 
the  salt  out  and  drain  them.  To  one  gallon  put  half  an  ounce  of  mace, 
same  of  black  pepper,  allspice,  celery  seed  and  cinnamon.  Put  them  in 
3  quarts  of  vinegar  with  one  teacup  of  mixed  mustard  seed  and  % 
pound  brown  sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil,  then  pour  in  the  tomato  and 
onion  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes.     Put  it  in  a  jar  hot  and  add  a  gill 

of  olive  oil,  if  you  like  it. 

Miss  Mary  Denson. 
92 


1  gallon  chopped  cabbage 
%  peck  green  tomatoes 
1  quart  onions 


CHOW  CHOW 

1  quart  green  or  red  sweet 

pepper 
4  pods  green  hot  pepper. 


Run  all  of  this  through  meat  chopper  and  sprinkle  with  1^4   cups 
salt  and  put  under  cover  for  24  hours.    Squeeze  out  and  add : 


1%  cups  brown  sugar 

2  tablespoons  white  mustard 

seed 
2  tablespoons  turmeric 
2  tablespoons  ground  black 

pepper 


2  tablespoons  celery  seed 
2  tablespoons  ground  mustard 
2  tablespoons  grated  horse- 
radish 


Mix  well  and  pack  in  glass  jars  and  cover  well  with  vinegar.    It  keeps 
perfectly.     (No  cooking.) 

Mrs.  Ben  Moore. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 


1  peck  of  tomatoes 

6  bell  peppers 

3  quarts  onions 

3  pounds  brown  sugar 

14  pound  white  mustard  seed 

1  tablespoon  pulverized  cloves 


1  tablespoon  pulverized  allspice 

2  tablespooons  pulverized  cin- 
namon 

2  tablespoons  pulverized  celery 
seed 


Slice  tomatoes  and  sprinkle  a  cup  of  salt  through  them  and  let  them 
stand  24  hours,  then  drain  brine  from  them.  Put  in  alternate  layers  of 
tomatoes,  onions,  peppers  and  spices  till  all  is  used.  Cover  with  vinegar 
and  cook  slowb^  till  tender — about  two  hours.  When  pickle  is  almost 
done  add  the  sugar. 

Miss  Pattie  Mordecai. 


GOOD  FLAVORED  VINEGAR  FOR  PICKLES 


1  handful  of  allspice 

1  handful  of  horseradish 

1  dozen  cloves 

1  teaspoonful  mace 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper 


4  tablespoonfuls  celery  seed 
3  or  4  onions  cut  up 

1  or  2  pods  of  red  pepper 

2  lbs  sugar 

1  gallon  vinegar 


93 


Spice  and  black  pepper  to  be  beaten.  Three  quarts  of  vinegar  and  one 
of  water  if  vinegar  is  strong.  This  is  especially  good  for  cucumber  and 
artichoke  pickles. 

Mrs.  Ed  Chambers  Smith. 

PEPPER  CATSUP 

(From  Mrs.   Cowper's  Recipe  Book) 

1  peck  hot  green  peppers  4  quarts  vinegar 

2  quarts  water  Good  quantity  of  grated  horse- 
1  dozen  onions  sliced  radish 

Boil  until  soft,  then  strain,  add  salt,  spice  and  cloves,  boil  ten  minutes 
and  bottle. 

Mrs.  Margaret  Cowper  Hall. 

ELGINSHIRE   TOMATO   CATSUP,    (ELGIN   WARREN   CO.   1832) 

1  gallon  ripe  tomatoes  pressed  2  tablespoons  ginger 

through  a  seive  1  tablespoon  allspice 

Half  gallon  vinegar  4  tablespoons  of  salt 

8  pods  red  pei:>per  Handful  horseradish  scraped 
4  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

Boil  all  together  for  three  hours.    Fine  for  cold  meats. 

Mrs.  W.  a.  Montgomery. 

,  TOMATO  CATSUP 

(Mrs.   Pulaski   Cowper's  Recipe) 

Split  the  tomatoes  and  boil  them  until  quite  done,  stirring  thera  fre- 
quently to  prevent  burning ;  strain  them  through  a  colander  first  and 
then  a  hair  sieve  rubbing  them  with  a  spoon  to  get  as  much  of  the  iiulp 
as  possible.  To  a  %  gallon  of  the  strained  pulp  add  4  tablespoons 
(level)  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  black  pepper,  3  tablespoons  of  mus- 
tard, one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  red  pepper,  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  one  clove  of  garlic.  Boil  until  you  think  it  is  done,  and  then 
take  from  the  fire,  set  aside  until  the  next  day.  Should  there  be  any 
watery  substance  on  top,  boil  until  it  entirely  disappears,  skim  while 
boiling.     The  pepper  and  spices  must  be  sifted  through  a  very  fine 

sieve. 

Mrs.  Margaret  Cowper  Hall. 
94 


TOMATO  CATSUP 

Boil  one-half  bushel  ripe  tomatoes  and  4  pods  of  red  pepper  thor- 
oughly, strain  through  a  sifter,  getting  all  the  pulp  and  juice.  Put  this 
liquid  to  boil  Avitli 

1  ounce  ground  black  Tjep})er  Yi  pound  of  salt 

1  pound  sugar 

Let  boil  until  quite  thick,  then  put  in  one  large  tablespoon  of  celery 
seed  and  about  1  cup  of  ground  mustard,  first  wetting  with  a  little  cold 
vinegar.  Add  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  according  to  strength,  boil  again 
and  bottle. 

Mrs.  Ed  Chambers  Smith. 

CANTALOUPE  PICKLE 

Peel  and  soak  the  young  cantaloupes  until  perfectly  fresh.  Boil 
tender  in  ginger  water.  Take  the  cantaloupes  out  and  let  cool.  Chop 
fine,  one  quart  can  of  pineapple,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  one-half  ounce 
of  ground  cinnamon  and  stuff  the  cantaloupes,  then  tie  them  together. 
Make  a  syrup  of  vinegar  and  sugar,  one  pint  sugar,  one  pound  brown 
sugar,  a  few  grains  of  allspice,  several  sticks  of  cinnamon  bark.  Put 
these  in  a  stone  jar  and  after  heating  the  syrup  to  boiling  point  pour 
over  the  cantaloupes.  Do  this  for  nine  days.  Have  enough  to  cover 
fruit  nicely  so  they  will  not  turn  dark.  If  these  cantaloupes  should 
get  soft  while  soaking,  drop  in  some  alum  and  they  will  harden. 

Mrs.  Van  B.  Mooke. 


95 


INDEX 


SOUPS 

PA0!E 

Amber    Soup   or    Consomme 6 

Cream    of    Potato    Soup - 5 

Imitation  of   Calves  Head   Soup-.— 5 

Onion    Soup - - 5 

Oyster   Soup - 7 

Tomato    Bisque  - - - 7 

Tomato    Soup -  5 

Vegetable    Soup - 6 

BREAD 

Bread  Making:,   Mrs.  Jane   S.  McKimmon....      9 

Baking    Powder    Biscuit 21 

Batter    Bread - 13 

Batter    Cakes 14 

Beaten     Biscuit 16 

Brown  Bread 18 

Buckwheat    Cakes 14 

Buttermilk     Biscuit - 18 

Cheese    Straws    No.    1.— — -    19 

Cheese    Straws    No.    2 19 

Crackers  or  Tliin  Bread 20 

Cream    Puffing - 17 

Cream     S?ones 19 

Date     Loaf - 18 

Dinner  Corn  Bread - - 13 

English    Muffins - 15 

Flannel    Cakes ■ .- 14 

Flour    Muffins .--  15 

Fritters 20 

Grandma's    Egg    Bread 13 

Griddle    Bread 18 

Lady     Rolls 12 

Liquid  or  Potato  Yeast.... 9 

Milk     Rolls 10 

Nut    Bread   No.    1 17 

Nut   Bread    No.    2 17 

Owendaw    Muffin 15 

Popovers  16 

Potato   Rolls 11 

Risen     Muffins 15 

Rolls 11 

Rolls    for    Tea 10 

Sally  Lunn    (1871) 12 

Sally    Lunn 13 

Sally   Lunn    (Mrs.    John   D.   Hawkins) 12 

Sally   Lunn  Muffins 16 

Southern    Biscuits 16 

Sugar    Bread 21 

Waffles    20 

Waffles    (Mammy's)    20 

FISH    AND    OYSTERS 

Baked  Halibut 22 

Escalloped     Oysters 2.3 

Pish  Pudding 22 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg 23 

Oyster  Cocktails  24 

Pickled    Ovsters 23 

Planked     Shad 23 

Stewed  Oysters  No.   1 24 

Stewed  Oysters  No.  2 24 


MEATS    AND    POULTRY 

Rules  for   Cooking  Meats   and  Fowls,   Mrs. 

W.    T.    McGhee -: 25 

Bacon    and    Eggs 33 

Beef  a  la  Mode .— -  25 

Beef  Loaf 27 

Breaded   Veal    Outlets 27 

Brunswick    Stew    No.    1 27 

Brunswick    Stew    No.    2 28 

Chicken  a  la-  King  No.   1 29 

Chicken    a    la    King   -No.    2...:..... .....1: 30 

Chicken    a    la    Queen 30 

Chicken    Croquettes.... 32 

Chicken    Pie 31 

Dry  Chicken  Dressing 29 

Ham,    Recipe    for    Cooking 25 

Ham,  How  to   Stuff 33 

Hog's  Head  Cheese .:...  27 

Mock    Terrapin 30 

Spiced    Beef 31 

Stewed   Beef  Tongue .— 32 

Stewed   Chicken 29 

Turkey,   How  to  Cook 28 

Turkey    Dressing ..■ 29 

VEGETABLES 

Rules    for    Cooking   Vegetables,    Mrs.    John 

Ward 35 

Baked    Potatoes    and   Pineapple 35 

Cauliflower    with    White    Sauce... 38 

Corn    Fritters 35 

Eggplant,    stuffed 38 

Escal!oped    Onions 36 

Gumbo     37 

Irish  Potatoes  au  Gratin 35 

Mushrooms    37 

Potato     Croquettes 37 

Stuffed    Baked    Tomatoes - 35 

Stuffed   Green    Peppers    No.    1 36 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers  No.  2.. 36 

Surprise    Balls 37 

Turnip     Salad.... 35 

SALADS 

Cucumber    Jelly 41 

Fairy     Salad 43 

Frozen    Salad    (two   quarts)... 43 

Frozen    Salad 46 

Frozen    Fruit    Salad   No.    1 43 

Frozen   Fruit    Salad    No.    2 44 

Frozen   Fruit   Salad    No.    3 45 

Fruit     Salad 46 

Ginger  Ale  Salad 44 

Griswold     Salad 44 

Jellied     Salad 39 

Salad    Delight 41 

Shrimp    Salad 39 

DRESSINGS 

Detroit    Lettuce    Dressing 39 

Cooked    Dressing  for   Chicken    Salad 45 

Roquefort    Cheese    Dressing 46 

Russian     Dressing 4.5 

Thousand   Island    Dressing 45 


CAKES 

Angel    Food    Cake 57 

Brown    Stone    Front    Cake 50 

Butter   Cake 58 

Cake      - l^ 

Chocolate     Cake 51 

Citron    Cake 49 

Custard  Filling  for  Angel   Cake 58 

Evelinea's     Gingerbread 51 

Filling     51 

Filling   52 

Fruit     Cake -  -   48 

tringer    Snaps - 57 

Icing   - 53 

Jelly    Roll 52 

Lady    Baltimore   Cake 52 

Layer    Cake,    Nut   and   Raisin   Filling 53 

Lemon    Jelly    Filling 51 

Mocha    Cake   Ko.    1 53 

Mo"ha   Cake    No.    2 54 

Oatmeal     Cookies 56 

Orange    Cake    No.    1 --   54 

Orange    Cake    No.    2 55 

Pecan    Nut    Cake 57 

Pound    Cake     <Mrs.    Bro  kenbrough).... 49 

Raleigh    RoweTia    Roll-outs - 49 

Rolled  Wafers    (Mrs.   Thos.    Hay) 56 

Soft  Gingerbread  50 

Spi -ed    Cakes 57 

Sponge    Cake    (Mrs.    M.    M.    Marshall) 48 

Sponge   Cake   Filling :....   48 

Sponge    Cake    - 52 

Sugar  Cakes - 56 

Tea    Cakes 56 

Virginia   Pound    Cake 50 

White    Cake   With    Caramel    Filling 55 

PUDDINGS,    PIES    AND    DESSERTS 

Apple     Dessert 64 

Baked  Apple  Pudding 61 

Bavarian     Cream 72 

Blackberry    Pudding    64 

Boiled  Custard 68 

Boiled   Plum  Pudding 60 

Bread    P\idding   with    Lemon 66 

Caramel    Charlotte    Russe 71 

Caramel    Pie   No.    1 65 

Caramel    Pie   No.   2 66 

Charlotte  Russe  No.  1 71 

Charlotte    Russe    No.    2 71 

Chocolate    Filling    for    Pie 67 

Chocolate   Pie 67 

Chocolate    Pudding 62 

Cit  on  Custard 66 

Cocoa  nut    Custard 69 

Cocoanut   Pudding 62 

Custard    Souffle    68 

English    Plum    Pudding 60 

Grated    Potato    Pudding 64 

Huckleberry    Pudding 64 

Italian     Cream 69 

Jelly    Custard 68 

Jelly     Pies 67 

Lemon  Cream  Pudding 62 

Lemon    Pie 65 

Lemon   Pie    (Cousin  Pokie's) 65 

Lena's   Delight 69 

Meringue     65 

Molasses     Pie 67 

Molasses    Pudding 61 

Pineapple    Pudding 62 

Poor   Man's    Pudding 61 

Plum   Pudding   No.    2 60 

Sponge    Pudding \  62 


Suet    Pudding 66 

Vinegar    Custard 68 

Wine  Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding 61 

ICE    CREAM    AND    FROZEN    DESSERTS 

Caramel  Ice   Cream 77 

Chocolate  I^e  Cream  No.  1 76 

Chocolate    Ice    Cream    No.    2 76 

Eggnog    Sauce 73 

Frozen    Pudding 75 

Fruit     Sherbert 76 

Ginger    Mousse 75 

Hot   Chocolate  Sauce 77 

Manhattan     Pudding    Frozen 73 

Maple    Mousse 75 

Maple     Parfait 73 

Nesserole     Pudding 73 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream 76 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Cheese    Fondue 80 

Cheese    Paste 79 

Egg    Omelet 80 

Hot    Cheese    Sandwiches 79 

Layer    Sandwiches 79 

Red    Devil 79 

To     Blanch     Almonds 80 

CANDY 

Candy   and   Sugar,   W.   H.   Royster 81 

Chocolate     Candy 83 

Chocolate    Caramels 82 

Jets    82 

Nut    and    Date    Loaf.... _ 83 

Pecan    Candy 83 

Taffy ;;...;;;;  34 

Taffy    Candy 83 

BEVERAGES 

Blackberry     A'-id 85 

Fruit  Punch   No.    1 85 

Fruit  Punch    No.   2 85 

Russian     Tea 85 

PRESERVES,     MARMALADES,      PICKLES, 
ETC. 

Foreword,   Mrs.   Jane   S.  McKimmon 87 

Apricot     Marmalade 89 

Cabbage     Pickle 92 

Cantaloupe    Pickle 95 

Chilli    Sauce 90 

Chow    Chow 93 

Cucumber    Pickle 91 

Cucumber     Pickle 92 

Elginshire    Tomato    Catsup 94 

Fig     Pickles 91 

Good    Flavored    Vinegar   for   Pickles 9.3 

Green    Tomato    Pickle 93 

Green    Tomato    Soy    (Mrs.    C.   B.    Denson)..   92 

Marmalade    89 

Peach    Preserves 89 

Peach    Pickle    (Mrs.   Chas.    Root) 90 

Pear     Preserves 89 

Pepper    Catsup 94 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickle 91 

Spiced   Wild    Grape    Jelly 90 

Sweet    Pickled    Cucumbers 90 

Tomato    Catsup 94 

Tomato     Catsup 95 


Noriii  "Cki-ollria  Stal^  Llbrai^ 


*/'  V,; 


"S- 


Py  i'v^''''; 


\* 


>.,.<' 


.^> 


'r- 


■/ 


V 


Va- 


.^i*-*S 


>  -4*     ■■'. 


V^ 


.^^.•■'.T^-^;>% 


i; 


r< 


**V._.; 


k:.^  ■  ^' 


.•L> 


^.^:^J<y. 


-!^iSis:?^ 


^H^ 


GC      641.5  R163r 

Christ  Church  (Raleigh,  N.C.).  Ladies. 
Raleigh  recipe  book  / 


3  3091  00135  5270 


DATE  DUE 

-W^ 

W^ 

\^\J » 

i    -.rtlQ 

^nov^ 

b  did 

-    WMi^*      1     ] 

m 

GAYLORD             j 

POINTED  IN  U.S.A. 

RESTRICTED 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 


.  1.  -w     C       Christ  Church- 


» 

6a.  5 

ni63r 

^ORTH 

^^ROLlNlAm 

Rcileigh_, 

N.    C. 

Christ,  Church, 

La.di 

es 

7ialej.,tih 

recipe 

book 

KrUijS^^^' 


..*f^» 


