Historic,  archived  document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  l<nowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


RECIPES  FOR  COOKING 


DOMESTIC 


RABBIT 


MEAT 


WILDLIFE  LEAFLET  240 

FISH  AND  WILDLIFE  SERVICE 

U.S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  INTERIOR 


Persons  desiring  information  on  raising  a  few 
rabbits  to  supplement  the  family  meat  supply  may  ob- 
tain free  a  copy  cf  Vfildlife  Leafet  218,   Domestic 
Rabbits  in  the   Pood  for  Freedom  Program,   from  the  Fish 
and  Wildlife  Service,   Department  of  the   Interior, 
Merchandise  llart,   Chicago.    Ill,,    or  from  the  U.   S* 
Rabbit  Experiment  Station,   Fontana,   Calif.     This  leaf- 
let contains  data  on  choosing  a  breed,   selecting  rab- 
bits  for  tY.s   originc-.l  herd,   feeds  and  feeding,  breed- 
ing,  construction  cf  hutch?s  and  their  equipment, 
slaughtering  and  i-kinning,  and  the   care  of  pelts. 
Breeders   interested  in  corur^rcial  production,  however, 
should  request  information  specifically  on  that 
subject. 


Unitad  States  Department  of  the   Interior 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 

Wildlife   leaflet  240 


ChioagOj  111. 


July  1943 


RSCIPES   FOR  COOKING  DOMESTIC  R/IBBIT  MEAT 

Prepared  in  the 
Division  of  Public  Relations 


Contents 


Introduction   

Raising  meat  in  back  yards  . 
Value  of  rabbit  meat  in  diet 
General  methods  of  cooking  • 


Page 
.  1 
.  2 
.  2 
.  2 


Recipes 3: 

Fried  rabbit 3  : 

Broiled  rabbit  3  : 

Rabbit  en  casserole  .  *  .  *  .  3  : 

California  casserole  rabbit  .  4  : 

Wartime  rabbit  casserole   .  .  4  : 

Belgian  hare  or  rabbit  en  : 
casserole  ....••...4: 

SteYTod  rabbit 4  : 

Stewed  rabbit  and  rice  .  .  .  5  : 

Vagabond  stew 5  : 

Rabbit  a  la  Marengo 5  : 

Rabbit  in  tomato  sauce   .  .  .  6  : 

Fricassee  of  rabbit 6  : 

Belgian  hare  a  la  Maryland  .  6  ; 

Curried  rabbit 7  : 

Rabbit  ome left? --plain  .  ,  .  7  : 

Roast  rabbit — No.  1 7  : 

Roast  rabbit — No.  2 8  : 

Roast  rabbit — No.  3 8  : 


Recipes — Continued.         Page 

Rabbit  pie — No.  1 8 

Rabbit  pie — No.  2 11 

Baked  rabbit  with  mushrooms   .  11 

Escalloped  rabbit  11 

Rabbit  a  la  minute 11 

Fried  rabbit  livers 11 

Barbecued  rabbits   12 

Hassenpfeffer — No.  1 12 

Hassenpfeffer — No.  2 12 

Braised  rabbit  12 

Rabbit  a  la  king 13 

Rabbit  chop  suey 13 

Smothared  rabbit 14 

Spanish  rabbit  ........  14 

Rabbit  sandyrich  .......  14 

Rabbit  club  sandwich 15 

Rabbit  liver  paste 15 

Rabbit  salad  15 

Rabbit  salad  sandwich  spread  .  15 
Rabbit  (southern  style).  ...  16 
Rabbit,  old  German  fashion  .  .  16 

Steamed  rabbit 16 

Hasenkucha 17 

Canning  rabbit  meat 17 


INTRODUCTION 

The  growing  scarcity  of  meat  due  to  war  conditions  and  the  neces- 
sity of  feeding  our  armed  forces  and  our  Allies  makes  it  imperative 
that  new  sources  of  supply  be  developed.     The  doDfflstic  rabbit— easy  to 
raise— is  rapidly  solving  the  meat  problem  in  many  American  homes,   and 
thus  is  playing  an  important  part  in  the  Food  for  Freedom  program. 
Rabbit  meat  is  not  rationed. 

On  the  West  Coast,  especially  in  southern  California,   domestic 
rabbit  meat  has  been  served  for  many  years  in  hotels,   restaurants,   and 
hospitals.     It  is  estimated  that  betwsen  6-1/2  and  7  million  pounds 
were  consumed  in  Los  Angeles  during  1942. 


RAISING  MEAT  IN  BACK  YARDS 

Hone   dwellers  with  available   space  are  being  urged  by  the    T\9der«.l 
Govemnient  to  raise   some   of  their  meat  and  thus  aid  the  war  program.     Since 
rabbit  meat  Is  quickly  produced,   it  is  especially  suitable   for  the  purpose. 
Just  90  days  from  the  time  the  doe   is  mated,  young  rabbits  may  be  grown  to 
fryer  size. 

Numberless  rabbitries,   capable  of  contributing  substantially  to  the 
family  meat  supply,   are  being  established  in  every  State  of  the  Union.     Rab- 
bits require  only  a  small  space,   and  may  be   raised  in  the   city  back  yard  as 
well  as  on  the   farm,    in  fact  wherever  poultry  can  be  produced.     Even  chil- 
dren may  engage   in  rabbit  raising.     It  may  inspire   confidence  that  no  case 
of  tularemia  has  ever  been  recorded  in  hutch-raised  rabbits.     In  Wildlife 
Leaflet  218,   Domestic  Rabbits   in  the   Food  for  Freedom  Program,   are   directions 
for  the  setting  up  of  a  small  back-yard  rabbitry  sufficient  to  accommodate 
three  or  four  does  and  a  buck.      Copies  of  this   leaflet  may  be   obtained  from 
the   Fish  and  Wildlife  Sei-vice,   Department  of  the  Interior,  Merchandise  Mart, 
Chicago,    111.,   or  from  the  U.   S.  Rabbit  Experiment  Station,   Fontana,   Calif, 

VALOE  OF  RABBIT  MEAT  IN  THE  DIET 

The  meat  of  domestic  rabbits  is  more    comparable  with  that  of  the 
chicken  than  with  beef,   pork,   or  mutton.     All  of  it  is  white   like  the  breast 
of  a  chicken,   fine-grained,   delicately  flavored,   and  highly  nutritious. 
Chemical  analysis   shows   it  to  be   composed  of  19 •?  to  21  percent  protein, 
8,5  to   16.0  percent  fat,    62  to  70  percent  water,   and  1  percent  mineral  salts. 
Unlike   that  of  the  wild  rabbit,   it  is  available   the   year  round  and  is  as 
palatable  in  hot  weather  as  in  cold.     The  edible  part  of  the   carcass  is 
about  82  to  85  percent  of  the   dressed  weight.     This  percentage  is  much 
higher  in  carcasses  of  mature   rabbits  weighing  3-1/2  to  7  pounds  dressed 
than  in  those  of  yoxinger  rabbits  of  from  2  to   2-3/4  pounds. 

Unless  the  housewife,  who  must  solve  the   problem  of  shortages  by  serv- 
ing replacement  foods,   knows  the  value   of  rabbit  meat  and  learns  how  to 
prepare   it  in  a  variety  of  appetizing  ways,   efforts  to   increase   the   produc- 
tion of  this  nutritious  product  will  not  attain  the   success  desired.      It 
is  to  acquaint  housewives  with  the  excellent  qualities  of  domestic  rabbit 
moat  that  these  recipes  have  been  assembled.     Domestic  rabbit  meat,  well 
prepared  and  attractively  served,    is   relished  by  adult  and  child  alike. 
Left-over  meat  can  be  used  to  advantage  in  lunches  for  war  workers  and 
school  children. 

GENERAL  METHODS  OF  COOKING 

Like  young  chickens  and  tender  steaks  and  chops,  young  fryer  rabbits 
can  be   cooked  by  the   quick  methods  of  flying  and  broiling.     Any  favorite 
chicken  recipe   can  be  used  for   rabbits.     Older  rabbits,   however,   require 
longer  slower  cooking,   but  they  are   excellent  served  in  fricassees,    casserole 
dishes,   rabbit  pies,    croquettes,    salads,    chop  suey,   and  all  other  ways   in  which 
mature  fowls  and  the   less  tender  cuts   of  meat  are  prepared.      If  first  simmered 
until  tender,  the  older  rabbits  may  also  be  fried  in  batter  or  smothered  in 
individual  casseroles. 


R3CIPES 

These  recipes  have  been  selected  from  many  sources  and  are  substanti". 
ally  quoted  from  the  sources  named  in  parentheses. 

Fried  Rabbit 

Choose  a  plump  young   rabbit,  wipe   the   dressed  meat  with  a  damp  cloth^ 
and  cut  into  pieces   for  serving.     Beat  1  egg  yolk,   add  l/2  cup  milk  suid 
3/4  teaspoon  salt,   and  stir  into  l/2  cup  flour  to  make  a  smooth  batter. 
In  a  heavy  skillet,   heat  4  tablespoons   of  fat  until  very  hot,    so  that  it 
will  set  the   batter  quickly.     Dip  the   pieces  of  rabbit  into  the   batter 
until  vjell  coated  and  drop  them  into  the   hot  fat.     As  soon  as  browned, 
reduce   the  heat  and   cook  at  moderate   temperature   for  25  to  30  minutes,   or 
until  the  meat  is  tender.     Serve   on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

For  each  cup  of  gravy  desired,   use   2  tablespoons   of  the  pan  drippings 
and  I-I/2  tablespoons   of  flour.     Blend  fat  and  flour  thoroughly  in  the   skil- 
let,  add  1  cup  of  milk,   and  stir  until  thickened.     Add  chopped  parsley, 
salt,   and  pepper  to   season.      (Bureau  of  Home   Economics .j/) 

Broiled  Rabbit 

Select  a  plump  young  rabbit  for  broiling.     After  dressing,  wipe   the 
meat  with  a  clean  damp  cloth,   and  rub  with  salt,   pepper,   and  flour.     Lay 
the   rabbit  whole,   back  down,   on  a   rack  in  an  uncovered  roasting  pan,   and 
place   generous  pieces  of  butter  or  other  fat  in  the   hollow  places,   but 
do  not  add  water.     Cook  in  a  moderate  oven   (350°  F.)   for  40  to  50  minutes, 
or  until  tender.      Turn  the   rabbit  over,   baste  with  the   pan  drippings, 
and  place  under  the   flame   of  the   broiling  oven  to  brown.     Cut  the   broiled 
rabbit  into  pieces  for  serving,  place  on  a  hot  platter,  and  pour  on  the 
drippings  mixed  with  finely  chopped  parsley.      (Bureau  of  Borne   gconomios.) 

Rabbit  en  Casserole 

Wipe  the  rabbit  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,   cut  into  pieces  for  serving, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  roll  in  flour.     Brown  lightly  in  hot 
fat  in  a  skillet,   transfer  to  a  casserole,   add  some  of  the   fat  from  the 
skillet  and  I/2  cup  of  hot  water.     Cover  and  cook  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  (350°  F.)  for  I-I/2  to  2  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  tender.     Remove 
the  meat  and  thicken  the   gravy  slightly.      To  each  cup  of  liquid  allow  1 
tablespoon  of  flour,  mix  with  a  few  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  add  to  the 
meat  drippings,    return  to  the  oven,   and  stir  occasionally  until  thickened. 
Season  with  salt,   pepper,   and  finely  chopped  parsley.     Replace   the  msat  and 
when  thoroughly  hot  serve  in  the   casserole.      (Bureau  of  Home  Sconomios.) 


1/  Bureau  of  Home  Economics      (now  Bureau  of  Human  Nutrition  and  HouiS 
Economics),   Department  of  Agriculture. 


California  Casserole  Rabbit 

8  slices  of  baoon  2  cups  of  hot  water 

1  large  rabbit,  cut  in  pieces  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  medium-sized  potatoes  l/4  teaspoon  pepper 
2  small  onions  Flour 

Fry  bacon  until  light  browi  and  remove  it  from  fat.  Use  bacon  fat 
to  brown  rabbit  pieces,  which  have  been  rolled  in  flour.   Transfer  the 
rabbit  meat  to  a  casserole,  arrange  the  bacon  strips,  slice  onions  and 
potatoes,  sprinkle  lightly  with  flour,  and  pour  hot  water  over  all.  Cover 
and  bake  for  two  hours.  When  tender,  remove  cover,  and  let  brown  for  a 
few  minutes.  Serve  in  casserole.  A  mature  rabbit  prepared  in  this  way 
is  delicious  and  tender.   (Mrs.  C.  L.  Mendenhall,  in  California  Rabbit  Mews.) 

Wartime  Rabbit  Casserole 

Have  the   rabbit  cleaned  and  out  into   serving  pieces.     Salt  and  pepper 
to  season,   dredge  with  flour.     Heat  two  tablespoons  each  of  butter   (or 
margarine)  and  cooking  oil  in  a  heavy  skillet  over  a  medium  gas  flame; 
brown  rabbit  on  both  sides  in  hot  fat.     Then  transfer  rabbit  to  a  cas- 
serole;  add  one-half  cup  tomato  pulp  and  one-half  cup  diced  celery.     Cover, 
place  in  oven  preheated  to  325°  F.,   and  bake  one  hour,   or  until  tender. 
(Fontana   (California)  Herald.) 


Belgian  Hare  or  Rabbit  en  Ciasserole 

Cut   the   hare   or  rabbit  into  pieces  for  serving;    season  with  salt, 
paprika,  and  red  pepper;  and  saut/  in  l/4  cup  shortening  and  2  slices 
of  baoon,   diced,   to  golden  brown.     Put  rabbit  in  casserole  with  1  cup 
hot  water  and  put  on  cover.     Bake   30  minutes,   then  add  2  tablespoons 
butter  rubbed  into  2  tablespoons  flour,   1  cup  water,   seasoning  to  taste, 
and  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice.     Cook  in  moderately  hot  oven  3  hours. 


Stewed  Rabbit 

Melt  4  tablespoons  shortening  in  saucepan;   cut  rabbit  into  serving 
pieces,   fry  quickly  in  shortening,   and  remove   from  pan.     Fry  1  sliced 
onion  until  browned,    stir  in  2  tablespoons   flour  and  brown  it,   then  add 
gradually  2  cups  water  and  stir  until   smooth;  when  boiling,   add  salt,   pepper, 
and  paprika  to  taste,   and  2  tablespoons   chopped  parsley;    add  rabbit  and 
let  simmer  1-1/2  hours. 


Stew9d  Rabbit  and  Rioe 

2  or  3  cups  of  cold,  cooked  rabbit,  cut  in  small  pieces 
4  strips  bacon,  cut  fine 

1  m0dium~sized  onion,  chopped  fine 

2  cups  rabbit  stock 

2  peeled  tomatoes  cut  fine  or  same  quantity  of  canned  tomatoes 
1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper 
1/2  cup  well  washed  rice 

Cook  onion  with  bacon  until  golden  brovni.  Add  rabbit  meat,  tomatoes, 
pepper,  and  stock.  Let  boil  and  add  rice.  Cover  tightly  and  simmer  until 
rice  is  tender,  stirring  enough  to  prevent  sticking.  If  desired,  add  1 
tablespoon  minced  parsley.  Green  pepper  may  be  increased  or  omitted.  A 
small  lump  of  butter  and  2  cups  water  may  be  used  in  place  of  ths  2  cups 
stock.   (Catharine  Templeton.2/) 

Vagabond  Stew 

1  mature  rabbit  2  cups  broth  (from  rabbit) 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  carrots  (Julienne)* 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  tomato  saUce 

1  cup  potatoes  (julienne)*  l/2  cup  chopped  parsley 

1/2  cup  celery  (Julienne)*  l/4  cup  flour 

1  onion,  sliced  l/4  cup  cold  water 

♦Julienne:  Cut  in  match-size  strips. 

Cover  rabbit  with  salt  water  and  stew  until  tender,  drain,  and  save 
broth.  When  cold,  remove  meat  from  bones  and  chop  coarsely.  Melt  butter 
in  skillet,  add  potatoes,  celery,  onion,  and  carrots.  Cover  and  cook 
slowly  for  15  minutes.  Add  broth  and  tomato  sauce.  Bring  to  a  boil  and 
add  meat,  parsley,  and  salt.  Blend  flour  and  water  until  smooth  and  add  , 
slowly  to  stew,  stir  until  thickened,  and  let  cook  slowly  for  15  minutes. 
(Six  servings.)   (LIrs.  C.  L.  Mandenhall,  in  California  Rabbit  News.) 

Rabbit  a  la  _Marengo 

Cut  a  rabbit  into  pieces  for  serving.  Melt  I/2  cup  fat  in  sauce- 
pan, put  in  rabbit  and  fry  it  until  browned;  add  2  small  chopped  onions, 
and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer.  Pour  off  remaining  fat  into  another  pan. 
Add  2  tablespoons  flour  and  mix  fat  and  flour  to  make  a  paste;  then  add 
2  chopped  tomatoes,  8  button  mushrooms,  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  and  a  little 
water,  cover  with  lid,  and  let  simmer  one  hour.  Arrange  rabbit  losat  on 
hot  dish,  heap  mushrooms  around  it,  and  garnish  vrith  thin  slices  of  lemon. 
Pour  the  tomato  and  mushroom  gravy  over  it  before  serving. 


^  Mrs.  George  S.  Templeton,  wife  of  the  Director  of  the  United 
States  Rabbit  Experiment  Station,  Fontana,  California. 


Rabbit  in  Tomato  Sauce 


1  large  rabbit 

2  tablespoons  lard  or  butter 

3  tablespoons  flour 

l-g-  cups  tomato  pulp  and  juice 


1  large  onion,  chopped  fine 

2  teaspoons  salt 
1/2  teaspoon  pepper 

3  cups  boiling  water 


Cut  the  rabbit  into  pieces  at  the  joints.  Dip  in  flour.  Brown  in 
a  little  fat*  Put  the  lard  or  butter  in  a  deep  iron  skillet,  or  a  roast- 
ing pan.  Stir  in  the  flour.  Add  the  chopped  onion  and  the  tomato  juice, 
vdth  the  seasonings  and  the  boiling  water.  Cook  5  minutes.  When  this  is 
boiling,  put  in  the  browned  rabbit,  cover,  and  let  simmer  on  top  of  stove, 
or  in  the  oven  for  1  hour.  The  tomato  sauce  cooks  down  and  gives  a  good 
flavor  to  the  rabbit.   (Aant  Sammy's  Cook  Book.) 


Fricassee  of  Rabbit 


1  large  rabbit 
1-|-  teaspoons  salt 
1/4  teaspoon  pepper 
Flour 

2  tablespoons  butter 


2  onions,  sliced 

1  cup  diced  celeiy 

1-g-  quarts  boiling  water 

Split  baking-powder  biscuits 


Dress,   clean,   ajid  disjoint  the   rabbit.     Dust  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Roll  in  flour  and  brown  in  the  butter.     Add  the   onions,    celery,   and  boil- 
ing water  to  cover.     Let  simmer  until   the   rabbit  is   tender,   about  an  hour 
and  a  half.     Thicken  broth  with  one   tablespoon  each  of  butter  and   flour, 
blended,   for  each  cup  of  liquid.     Serve   on  split  baking-powder  biscuits  with 
any  tart  jelly.      (Ida  Bailey  Allen's   Service   Cook  Book.) 


Belgian  Hare   a  la  Maryland 


1  rabbit,   cut  to  serve 
Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  flour 

2  eggs,  beaten 


Cracker  crumbs 
4  tablespoons  butter 
1  small  onion,  minced 
1  bay  leaf 


Wash  pieces  of  rabbit  and  dry  well.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  roll  each  piece  in  flour,  beaten  eggs,  and  cracker  crumbs.  Place  in 
uncovered  roaster  in  which  butter  has  been  melted,  add  onion  and  bay  leaf. 
Roast  I-I/2  to  2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven  (325°  to  350°  F.),  basting 
frequently.  Serves  4.   (U.  S.  Regional  Cook  Book,  Southern  Section.) 


Curried  Rabbit 

1  large  rabbit  2  bay  leaves 

2  strips  bacon  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  large  Spanish  onion       1-1/2  tablespoons  curry  pov/der 
1  apple  Salt,  pepper,  and  sugar  to  taste 

Braise  the  bacon  and  onion  in  a  deep  skillet.  Dry  the  rabbit,  cut 
in  pieces,  sprinkle  with  the  flour  and  curry  powder  previously  mixed 
together,  and  put  in  skillet.  Add  apple  chopped  fine,  bay  leaves,  pepper, 
salt,  and  sugar.  Cover  with  cold  water  (about  3/4  pint)  and  cook  slowly 
three  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Serve  hot  on  platter  and  garnish  with 
boiled  rice. 


Rabbit  Omelette — Plain 

Heat  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  (a  French  omelette  pan  that 
has  round  edges  is  best.)  Mix  together  the  following: 

12  eggs  1/4  cup  chopped  onion 

2  ounces  bread  crumbs    (white)  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

2  cups   diced  rabbit  meat  Salt  anid  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  rapidly  on  stove,  turning  at  intervals.  Place  in  oven  for 
two  minutes,  remove,  and  serve  on  plate.  (Mrs.  C.  L.  Mendenhall,  in 
California  Rabbit  News.) 


Roast  Rabbit— No.   1 

1  rabbit  Sage  stuffing 

Salt  2  tablespoons  fat 

Pepper 

Wash  dressed  rabbit  thoroughly  in  running  water.     Sprinkle  the  inside 
with  salt  eoid  pepper.     Pill  with  sage   stuffing,   fasten  opening  securely, 
ajid  spread  with  fat.     Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roast  in  an 
uncovered  pan  in  a  moderate   oven   (350°   F.)   I-I/2  hours  or  until  tender. 
Serves  4  to  6.      (U.   S.   Regional  Cook  Book,  Mississippi  Valley  Section.) 


Roast  Rabbit— No.  E 


1  rabbit 

3  beaten  eggs 

6  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

3  tablespoons  chopped  cooked  ham 

3  tablespoons  shortening 


1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 
1  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind 
1/2  teaspoon  powdered  herbs 
3  chopped  mushrooms 
Salt,  pepper,  and  red  pepper 
to  taste. 


Beat  eggs,  add  mushrooms,  shortening,  ham,  bread  crumbs,  parsley, 
and  seasonings,  and  mix  well.  Wipe  rabbit  and  season  inside  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  powdered  herbs.  Fill  rabbit  with  dressing,  sew  up,  and  truss 
it;  roast  1  hour,  basting  well  with  shortening.  Serve  hot  with  currant 
jelly  sauce. 


Roast  Rabbit— No.  3 


1  rabbit 

Forcemeat  or  stuffing 


Salt  and  pepper 

Beef  drippings  or  other  fat 


Wipe   the   rabbit  dry,    fill   it  with  forcemeat  or  stuffing,    sew  up,   and 
firmly  truss  it.      Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,   and  roast.     Baste 
well  with  beef  drippings,  butter,   or  other  fat.     A  thin  piece  of  beef- 
suet  skin  may  be  tied  over  the  back  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  and  then 
removed.     For  a  medium-sized  rabbit,   roast  15  minutes  at  500°  F,  and  1-1/2 
hours  at  350*^  F.     Serve  with  brown  gravy  and  currant  jelly.  (American  Woman's 
Cook  Book.) 


Rabbit  Pie— No.  1 


1  rabbit 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  onion,    chopped 

1  green  pepper,   chopped 

1/2  cup  chopped  parsley 


3  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat 

Flour 

Dash  of  tobasco  sauce 

Pastry 


After  wiping  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,   cut  it  into  two  or  three 
pieces.     Place   in  a  kettle,   barely  cover  with  hot  water,   add  the    salt, 
partly  cover  the  kettle,   and  simmer  until  tender,   or  about  one  and  one-half 
to  two  hours  for  a  mature   rabbit.     Drain  and  laeasure  the  broth,  euad  re- 
move  the  meat  from  the   bones   in  large  pieces.     Cook  the   onion,   green 
pepper,   and  parsley  for  a  few  minutes   in  the  fat  in  a  skillet  and  stir 
frequently.     For  each  cup  of  broth  measure   1-^  tablespoons  of  flour,   and 
mix  well  with  the   fat  and  seasonings.     Add  the  broth  and  stir  until 
thickened.     Add  more  salt  if  needed  and  a  dash  of  tabasco  sauce.     Mix 
well  with  the  rabbit  meat  and  pour  into  a  baking  dish.     Cover  with  pastry 
and  bake   in  a  moderate   oven   (350°  F.)  until   the   crust  is  golden  brown. 
(Bureau  of  Home  Economics.) 


Broiled  young 
rabbit  -with 
orisp  lattice 
potatoes • 
(Recipe  p.  3.) 


Rabbit  en 
casserole,  an 
especially 
good  way  to 
cook  rabbits 
too  mature  to 
be  broiled  or 
fried. 
(Recipe  p.  3.) 


i^fi^^^^&i^ai^^^^K 


Rabbit  chop  suey 
with  flaky  boiled 
rice  and  a  cup  of 
tea  is  almost  a 
whole  meal* 
(Recipe  p.  13 •) 


Rabbit  a  la  king 
in  a  shell  of 
crisp  pastry. 
(Recipe  p.  13.) 


Individual 
rabbit  pies 
are  quickly 
made  and  easily 
served, 
(Recipe  pp.  8 
and  11.) 


Rabbit  salad. 
The  white  meat 
of  domestic 
rabbit  is 
attractive  in 
a  salad. 
(Recipe  p.  15.) 


10 


Rabbit  Pie— No.  2 

For  each  rabbit  cut  in  smallish  pieces,  use   l/2  pound  diced  bacon, 
1/2  pound  beefsteak,   1  onion,   2  or  3  stalks  celery,   1  medivim-sized  white 
turnip,   2  hard-boiled  eggs,   salt,   pepper,   and  puff  or  short  pastry.     Dice 
vegetables.     Cover  meat  and  vegetables  with  water,   season,   and  cook  until 
almost  done.     Thicken  gravy  slightly.     Transfer  to  bake  paji,   add  sliced 
eggs,   cover  with  a  fairly  thick  ojrust,   and  bake  brown.     An  egg-yolk  wash 
adds  a  pleasing  gloss  to  paste.     Serve  with  red  currant  jelly.      (Chef 
Roland  Ryder-Smith,   in  The  American  Small  Stock  iknoer.) 

Baked  Rabbit  with  Mushrooms 

Separate  rabbit  into  joints.     Roll  in  egg  and  crumbs.     Pan  it  with 
a  quart  or  so  of  stock   (or  water)  and  a  cup  of  bacon  fat  or  other  drip- 
ping.    Baste  while   baking  in  moderate   oven.     TIThen  tender,   add  cup  of 
claret  and  a  can  of  button  mushrooms  to  liquid  in  roaster.     Skim,   thicken, 
dish  up,   and  garnish  with  chopped  parsley.      (Chef  Roland  Ryder-Smith.) 

Esoalloped  Rabbit 

Cut  one  stewed  rabbit  into  small  pieces.     Saut^  one   chopped  green 
and  one  red  pepper  in  butter  or  fat,   and  add  to  rich  cream  sauce  dashed 
with  lemon.     Fill  individual  casseroles,   top  with  buttered  crumbs  and 
some  grated  cheese,  and  brown  in  the  oven.      (Chef  Roland  Ryder- Smith.) 


Rabbit  a  la  Minute_ 

Disjoint  a  2-1/4  lb.   dressed  fryer  rabbit,   season,   brush  with  oil, 
fat,  or  butter.     Broil  till  nicely  golden.     Serve  on  toast  in  country 
gravy  to  which  a  little   lemon  juice,  a  bit  of  prepared  mustard,   and  a 
flick  of  paprika  have  been  added.     Garnish  with  thin  lemon  slices  and 
parsley  sprigs.     Serve   jelly  on  the   side.      (Chef  Roland  Ryder-Smith.) 


Fried  Rabbi t  Livers 

Rabbit  livers  fried  with  bacon  will  be   found  as   pleasing  as  those 
of  chicken.     Grilled  green  tomatoes   in  season  are   delicious   served  with 
them.      (Chef  Roland  Ryder-Smith . ) 


11 


Barbecued  Rabbits 

Stretch  two  rabbits    full  length  in  long  baking  pan.     Put  a  very 
little  water  in  bottom  of  pan  to  keep  rabbits   from  sticking  and  place 
in  a  hot  oven.     After  rabbits  have  been  in  oven  ten  minutes,   rub  well 
with  butter,   and  reduce   heat  to  a  low  degree.     Make   a  basting  of  one 
tablespoon  of  salt,   one   teaspoon  of  black  pepper,    and  one   cup  of  vinegar. 
Baste  rabbits  with  this  every  few  minutes.     Bake    1-1/2  to   2  hours.     Vfhen 
rabbits   are   done  all  moisture    should  be   cooked  out  of  pan.     Make   a  bar- 
becue  sauce   on  top  of  stove   of  the   following: 


1  teaspoon  mustard 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  flour 

1  teaspoon  black  pepper 


1  teaspoon  paprika 
1  egg  yolk 
1  cup  vinegar 


Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  with  the  egg  yolk  and  stir  mixture  into 
the  boiling  vinegar.  Cook  until  it  thickens, 

Hassenpfeffer — No.  1 


1  rabbit 

Vinegar  and  water 

1  large  onion,  sliced 

Salt  and  pepper 


Cloves 

Bay  leaves 

Butter 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream 


Cut  rabbit  into  serving  pieces,  place  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  equal 
parts  of  vinegar  and  vra.tor.  Add  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cloves, 
and  bay  leaves.  Let  the  meat  soak  in  this  solution  2  days,  then  remove 
and  brown  it  in  hot  butter,  turning  often.  Add  gradually  some  of  the 
sauce  in  which  the  meat  was  pickled.  Let  simmer  until  meat  is  tender,  about 
30  minutes.   Just  before  serving  stir  sour  cream  into  sauce.  Serves  4  to 
6.   (U.  S.  Regional  Cook  Book,  Wisconsin  Dutch  Section.) 

Hassenpfeffer— No.  2 

Cut  up  rabbit  and  soak  overnight  in  1  pint  vinegar,  1  pint  cold  water, 
2  tablespoons  salt,  1  onion,  and  1  teaspoon  pickling  spices.  Drain  in  the 
morning  and  roast  until  done.   Take  rabbit  out  of  roaster  and  put  it  in 
the  pickling  mixture,  then  stir  in  a  pint  of  sour  cream,  eind  thicken  v/ith 
flour.   (American  Rabbit  Journal.) 


Braised  Rabbit 


1  rabbit 

Salt 

Butter 


Water 
Flour 


Cut  rabbit  into  serving  pieces;  let  stand  in  salted  water  overnight. 
Drain.  Roll  in  flour.  Fry  in  butter  until  brown  on  both  sides.  Add 
small  quantity  of  water.  Cover  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  {350°  F.)  until 
tender,  1-1/2  to  1-3/4  hours.   Pour  brown  gravy  over  rabbit.  Serves  6. 
(U.  S.  Regional  Cook  Book.) 


12 


Rabbit  a  la  King 

1  rabbit,   or  3  cups  diced  cooked  meat     2  egg  yolks 

2  cups  cream  1  teaspoon  minced  onion 
4  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  flour  Paprika 
1  green  pepper,  chopped  Salt 

1  pound  mushrooms,    cut  in  pieces  l/2  cup  chopped  pimientos 

A  rabbit  past  the  broiling  and  frying  age   can  be  used  to  excellent 
advantage   in  this  way.     Wipe   the    dressed  rabbit  with  a  damp  cloth,   place 
on  a  rack  in  a  kettle,   add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  barely  cover  with  hot 
water,   partly  cover  the  kettle,   and  simmer  for  one   and  one-half  to  two 
hours,   or  until  the  meat  is  tender.      Let  cool   in  the   broth,    then  drain, 
remove   the  meat  from  the   bones,   and  out  into  even-sized  pieces. 

Heat  the   cream  in  a  double  boiler.     Blend  the   flour  with  2  table- 
spoons of  the  butter,  and  stir  into  the   cream  until  thickened.     Melt  the 
remaining  butter  in  a  skillet,  add  the  green  pepper  and  mushrooms,   and 
cook  for  a  few  minutes  over  low  heat.      Beat  the  egg  yolks,   stir  a  small 
quantity  of  the   thickened  cream  into  them,   and  add  to  the   rest  of  the 
sauce.     Stir  in  the  mushrooms,   green  pepper,   onion,   lemon  juico,   and 
paprika  and  salt  to  taste.     Add  the   diced  rabbit  and  pimiento.     When  the 
mixture  is  heated  thoroughly,   serve  in  patty  shells  or  on  crisp  toast. 
(Bureau  of  Home  Economics.) 

Rabbit  Chop  Suey 

1  rabbit,   or  2  to  3  cups   shredded,  2  cups  bean  sprouts 
cooked  meat  2  cups  broth 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat  2  teaspoons  cornstarch  or 

2  cups  shredded  onion  flour 

1  cup  shredded  green  pepper  1  cup  toasted  almonds 

2  cups   shredded  celery  4  tablespoons  soy  sauce 

Chop  suey  is  an  excellent  way  to  serve  the  more  mature  rabbit  or  to 
use  left-over  cooked  meat.     Wipe  the  rabbit  with  a  damp  cloth,  place  on 
a  rack  in  a  kettle,  barely  cover  with  hot  water,   add  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,   and  partly  cover  the  kettle.     Simmer  until  the  meat  is  tender,  or 
about  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours  for  an  older  rabbit,  and  let  cool  in 
the  broth.     Drain  and  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  in  thin  strips.     Melt 
the   fat  in  a  skillet,  add  the  onion  and  green  pepper,   and  cook  for  a  few 
minutes.      Then  add  the  meat  and  continue   cooking,    stirring  frequently, 
until  the  meat  is  slightly  browned.     Add  the  celery  and  bean  sprouts,   and 
the   broth  mixed  with  the   cornstarch  or  flour;    cover,   and  cook  gently  for 
10  minutes.     Stir  in  the  almonds,  which  have  been  broken  into  halves,   and 
the  soy  sauce.     Add  salt  if  needed.     The   soy  sauce  contains  so  much  salt 
that  often  no  more   is  needed.     Serve  with  hot  boiled  rice.      (Bureau  of 
Home  Economics.) 


13 


Smothered  Rabbit 

Wipe  the  rabbit  meat  with  a  damp  cloth  and  out  into  pieces  for  serv- 
ing.    If  the  rabbit  is  not  young  and  tender,   barely  cover  with  hot  water, 
and  simmer  for  about  an  hour  in  a  partly  covered  kettle.     Transfer  the 
neat  to  a  shallow  baking  dish,   cover  with  a  sauce  made   of  1  cup  of  the 
broth  and  1  cup  of  milk  thickened  with  4  tablespoons  of  butter  or  other 
fat  blended  with  2  tablespoons   flour.     Salt  and  pepper  to   season.     Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  about  one-half  hour,   or  until  the  meat  is 
tender,   and  serve  in  baking  dish. 

Young  rabbit  cooked  in  this  way  needs  no  parboiling,  but  may  be  put 
directly  into  the   baking  dish,    covered  with  2  cups  of  the   thin  sauce 
made  with  milk,   and  baked  until   tender.      (Bureau  of  Some   Eoonomics.) 

Spanish  Rabbit 

1  rabbit,   cut  into  serving  pieces  1  can  of  tomato  sauce 

Salt  and  pepper  1  teaspoon  sugar 

Sliver  of  garlic  1  green  pepper,   chopped 

3  tablespoons  olive   oil  1  onion 

1  tablespoon  butter  Mushrooms,   if  desired 
Pinch  of  sage 

Salt  and  pepper  the   rabbit  and  brown  it  in  the   olive   oil  and  butter. 
Add  the   other  ingredients,   a  little  water,   if  necessary,   and  let  simmer 
until  the  rabbit  is  tender.      (Mrs.  C.  L«  tfendenhall,   in  California  Rabbit 
News.) 

Rabbit  Sandwich 

1  rabbit,  6  to  10  pounds  or  larger,  cut  into  6  to  8  pieces 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1/2  oup  carrots 

1/2  cup  onion 

1/2  cup  celery 

1  tomato  or  1/2  cup  tomato  puree 

Put  rabbit  and  all  other  ingredients  in  boiling  water,  cover,  and 
let  simmer  until  meat  is  ready  to  fall  from  the  bones.  Drain  off  stock, 
and  let  meat  cool.  Slice  meat  from  the  hind  legs  and  remove  the  rest  of 
the  meat  from  the  bones  in  as  large  pieces  as  possible.  Mayonnaise  may 
be  added  to  the  sandwiches,  if  desired.  Mayonnaise  mixed  with  chopped 
celery,  onion,  and  pimiento  or  sliced  tomato  also  makes  a  delightful  dress 
ing.  (Mrs.  C.  L.  Mendenhall,  in  California  Rabbit  News.) 


14 


Rabbit  Club  Sandwioh 

Toast  three  pieces  of  bread.  On  one  piece  of  toast  place  a  lettuce 
leaf,  a  slice  of  tomato,  a  thin  slice  of  onion,  a  little  mayonnaise 
dressing,  and  another  lettuce  leaf.  Add  the  second  piece  of  toast  and 
cover  with  sliced  and  chopped  cooked  rabbit  meat  seasoned,  two  small 
slices  of  fried  bacon,  and  a  little  more  mayonnaise  dressing  if  desired. 
Top  with  the  third  piece  of  toast.  Put  a  couple  of  toothpicks  in  the 
seuidwich  to  hold  the  pieces  together,  and  place  an  olive  on  top  of  each 
toothpick.  Cut  sandwioh  across  diagonally  into  two  triangular  pieces. 
(Mrs.  C.  L.  Mendenhall,  in  California  Rabbit  News.) 

Rabbit  Liver  Paste 

Rabbit  livers  make  a  savory  paste  to  use  as  sandwich  filling  or  as 
a  spread  for  crackers  to  serve  with  salad.  Drop  the  livers  into  a  small 
quantity  of  boiling  water,  simmer  for  10  minutes,  and  drain.  Mash  the 
livers  with  a  fork,  remove  any  stringy  tissues,  and  blend  with  finely 
chopped  olives,  minced  onion,  mayonnaise,  and  dashes  of  tabasco  sauce  and 
paprika.  Chill  before  using.   (Bureau  of  Home  Economics.) 

Rabbit  Salad 

3  cups  diced  cooked  rabbit  meat  Paprika 

1/2  cup  salad  oil  3  cups  diced  celery 

1/4  cup  vinegar  2  tablespoons  capers 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice  Dash  of  tabasco  sauce 

Salt  1  cup  thick  mayonnaise 

To  the  rabbit  meat,  which  has  been  cut  into  small  even  pieces,  add 
the  oil,  vinegar,  onion  juice,  salt  as  needed,  and  paprika,  and  let  stand 
in  a  cold  place  for  three  or  four  hours,  or  overnight.  Then  add  the 
celery,  capers,  tabasco  sauce,  and  enough  mayonnaise  to  cover  well.  Serve 
on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  or  other  salad  greens  with  a  garnish  of  olives 
and  radishes.   (Bureau  of  Home  Boonomics.) 

Rabbit  Salad  Sandwich  Spread 

1  pound  cold,  cooked  rabbit  meat,  ground 

1  medivua-sized  onion,  chopped  fine 

1  cup  chopped  celery 

6  sweet  pickles,  cut  fine 

1  pimiento  or  green  pepper 

Mix  the  ingredients  together  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
enough  salad  dressing  to  make  it  the  proper  consistency  to  spread.   (When 
making  large  quantities,  less  salad  dressing  will  be  required  if  part  of 
the  stock  in  which  the  rabbit  was  cooked  is  added  to  the  mixture. 
(■American  Rabbit  and  Cavy  Breeders  Association.) 


16 


Rabbit  (Southern  Style ) 


Dress  and  cleaja  one  rabbit  and  disjoint  in  pieces  for  serving. 
Mix  1/3  cupful  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful 
of  sage  in  a  bowl.  Coat  the  rabbit  thoroughly  with  this  mixture, 
then  saut^  in  3  table spoonfuls  of  hot  fat  until  brown  on  all  sides. 
Place  the  rabbit  in  the  casserole  and  lay  3  strips  of  bacon  over 
the  surface.  Pour  4  oupfuls  of  a  white  sauce  over  and  around  the 
rabbit.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375°  F. )  for  2  hours,  or  until  the 
meat  is  tender.   (My  Better  Homes  and  Gardens  Cook  .Book.) 


Rabbit,  Old  German  Fashion 

Cut  rabbit  into  five  pieces — that  is,  the  saddle,  two  hind  quarters 
and  two  fore  quarters.  Fry  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  until  the  fat 
is  well  fried  out.  Put  in  the  rabbit,  turn  it  until  brown,  and  dust 
with  salt  and  pepperj  cover  and  bake  it  in  a  qxiick  oven  about  one  hour. 
Dish  the  rabbit.  Add  to  the  drippings  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  stir 
vmtil  the  butter  is  brown;  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  potato  flour  and 
mix  well;  pour  in  a  pint  of  sour  cream;  and  stir  vintil  it  boils.  Add 
a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  rabbit. 
(American  Rabbit  and  Cavy  Breeders  Association.) 


Steamed  Rabbit 


This  is  a  good  recipe  for  cooking  a  mature  rabbit.  Cut  the  rabbit 
into  sei*ving  pieces,  flour  well,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  quickly 
to  a  rich  brown  in  hot  fat.   Then  place  in  a  roaster  or  pan  with  a  tight- 
fitting  cover,  add  a  slice  of  onion,  a  slice  of  lemon,  a  bay  leaf,  a 
very  little  thyme,  and  a  cup  of  boiling  water;  cover  tightly  and  place 
in  hot  oven  or  fire less  cooker  to  steam  about  2  hours,   (Amerioan  Rabbit 
and  Cavy  Breeders  Association.)  —————— 


16 


HBLsenkueha. 

1  rabbit  1/2  oup  rabbit  broth 

1^  tablespoons  flour  Salt 

Potato  stuffing  Fapper 

Potato  Stuffing 

2  oups  hot  mashed  potatoes  1  onion,  Binoed 

1  @gg*  vrell  beaten  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  dry  bread,  oubed  l/2  teaspoon  poultry  seasoning 

1  tablespoon  minoed  parsley  l/2  cup  dioed  celery 

2  tablespoons  butter,  melted  Dash  of  pepper 

Soak  bread  in  odd  water  and  squeese  dry.     Uix  together 
potatoes  and  egg,  and  add  to  tiie  soaked  biread.     Stir  in  the 
remaining  ingredients  auid  mix  nell* 

Wipe  dressed  rabbit  with  a  damp  cloth,  barely  cover  with  water,  and 
cook  until  tender,  l-l/2  to  2  hours.     Separate  meat  from,  bones  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.     Butter  a  casserole  and  put  in  a  layer  of  potato 
stuffing,  then  a  layer  of  meat]  add  one  tablespoon  of  sauce  (made  by 
combining  the  flour  and  broth),  and  seasoning}  continue  until  dish  is 
filled.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (360®  F«)  26  minutes.     Serves  6. 
U.  S.  Regional  Cook  Book,  Pennsylvania  Dutch  section* 


Canning  Rabbit  Meat 

Surplus  quantities  of  domestic  rabbit  may  be  canned  by  the  pressure' 
cooker  method* 


22«»79 

17 


