Historic,  archived  document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  l<nowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


^ 


Yi 


REC/PES  FOR  COOKING 


MUSKRAT. 


^■i' iM  ijpjaMflm  inww 


MEAT 


E3  R  A  R  Y 

CURRENT  SERIAL  Riuuf 
DECl^  , 

OTMENT  OF  At 


',f'' 


WILDLIFE  LEAFLET  229 

FISH  AND  WILDLIFE  SERVICE 

U.S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  INTERIOR 


.< 


Unitod  States  Department  of  the  Interior 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 

Wildlife  Leaflet  229 

Chicago, 

Illinois                *                Rev,  October  1943 

RECIPES  FOR  COOKIHG  MUSKRAT  MEAT 

By  Herbert  L.  Dozier,  Director,  Unitod  States  Fur  Animal  Field  Station, 
Pur  Resources,  Division  of  Wildlife  Research 


Contents 


Page 

Introduction  • 1 

General  directions  for  dress- 
ing and  cooking •  2 

Recipes    ••      •• •o  2 

Fried  muskrat     •«••••  2 

Wine-fried  muskrat  •    •   •   •  3 

Broiled  marsh  rabbit  •   •   •  3 

Smothered  muskrat     .    •    •    •  3 
Maryland  potted  or  baked 

muskrat     ..••••••  3 

Muskrat  a  la  terrapin  •  •  3 

Michigan  special  •  •  •  •  •  4 


Pag© 
Recipes— Continue  do 

Layered  muskrat  and  com  e  •  4 
Marsh  hare  a  la  Louis ianns  «  4 

Pickled  muskrat  4 

4 
5 
5 
5 
5 
6 
6 


Muskrat  pie      ....... 

Maryland  shredded  muskrat 
Muskrat  with  tomato  sauce 
Muskrat  patties     •    •    •   •   < 

Muskrat  salad     •••••• 

Stewed  muskrat  liver  •   •    . 
Preserving  muskrat  meat     . 


INTRODUCTION 

Because  of  the  scarcity  of  other  meats,  Americans  will  be  eating  more 
poultry  and  domestic  rabbit.     Some  will  try  muskrat,   or  "marsh  rabbit,"  as 
it  is  sometimes  called.     Muskrat  was  highly  esteemed,  ©specially  in  winter, 
by  the  aborigines  of  North  America.     The  voyageurs,   trappers,  and  hvmters 
roasted  it  over  the  coals  of  the  camp  fire,  and  traders  ajid  Indians     dried 
the  meat  for  winter  food. 


In  modern  times  many  persons  also  have  eaten  the  flesh  of  the  muskrat 
and  relished  it.     Some  have  declared  that  it  is  game  worthy  of  em  epicure 
and  has  a  flavor  somewhat  like  that  of  the  wild  duck  shot  in  the  same  marsh 
in  which  the  muskrat  fed.     Its  flavor  has  likewise  been  likened  to  that  of 
the  famous  terrapin  of  Chesapeake  Bay.      The  muskrat  is  mainly  a  vegetarian 
euid  feeds  on  the  roots  and  stems  of  such  aquatic  plsuits  as  cattails,   sedges^ 
bulrushes,  wildrice,   pond  lilies,  and  water?/© ed. 


Fresh  muskrat  meat  is  available  during  the  open  trapping  seasons  in 
various  States.  This  period  extends  from  November  to  April,  depending 
on  State  laws.  Muskrats  are  sold  extensively  in  some  of  the  markets  of 
the  East.  In  Washington,  Baltimore,  St.  Louis,  Wilmington,  and  Phila- 
delphia, they  are  sold  as  "marsh  rabbits,"  but  no  attempt  is  made  to 
conceal  the  fact  that  they  are  muskrats^  They  can  be  purchased  cheaply 
as  they  are  trapped  for  their  fur  and  the  additional  labor  of  preparing 
the  meat  for  market  is  slight. 

Muskrat  is  eaten  by  all  classes  of  people.  It  is  a  favorite  dish 
at  dinners  given  by  church  societies  in  Delaware,  Maryland,  and  New  Jer- 
sey, and  an  annual  muskrat  banquet  is  a  fixture  with  certain  gun  clubs 
in  both  the  Bast  and  the  West. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  DRESSING  A1>ID  COOKING 

The  flesh  of  the  muskrat,  dark  red  in  color,  is  fine-grained  and 
tender.  Prejudice  against  the  meat  results  usually  from  lack  of  skill 
in  cooking  or  from  carelessness  in  skinning  the  animal.  The  musk  glands 
often  cone  off  with  the  skin,  and  only  in  summer  does  the  musky  odor  per- 
vade the  flesh.  Care  should  be  taken  to  avoid  cutting  into  the  musk 
glands,  and  any  subcutaneous  glands  that  may  adhere  to  the  meat  should 
be  trimmed  off. 

The  dressed  muskrat  should  be  soaked  overnight  in  slightly  salted 
cold  water  to  draw  out  the  blood  and  reduce  the  gamy  flavor.  Tfeak  vinegar 
also  reduces  the  "wild"  taste  and  tends  to  make  the  meat  more  tender.  A 
pinch  of  baking  soda  may  be  used  for  the  same  purpose. 

Young  muskrats,  like  young  rabbits,  can  be  cooked  by  the  quick  methods 
of  frying  or  broiling.  Older  emimals  require  longer,  slower  cooking.  The 
latter  are  excellent  served  in  fricassees,  casserole  dishes,  muskrat  pies, 
croquettes,  chop  suey,  and  other  ways  adapted  to  mature  meat. 

RECIPES 

The  recipes  given  here  are  typical  of  the  many  suitable  for  cooking 
this  meat.  When  properly  prepared,  it  is  highly  palatable. 

Fried  Muskrat 

Disjoint  the  muskrat  and  cut  it  into  desired  number  of  pieces.     Par- 
boil for  20  minutes,   drain,   and  wipe  with  damp  cloth.     Fry  plain  in  a 
heavy  skillet.     If  preferred,   the  pieces  may  be  dipped  until  well-coated 
in  a  smooth  batter  made  by  beating  one  egg  yolk  in  half  a  cup  of  milk, 
adding  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,   and  stirring  in  half  a  cup 
of  flour,  and  dropped  into  hot  fat.     As  soon  as  the  meat  is  browned,  re- 
duce the  heat  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.     Serve   on  a  hot  platter  and 
garnish  with  parsley.     A  rich,   brown  gravy  may  be  made   by  stirring  flour 
into  the  pan  drippings,   adding  a  little  water  or  milk,   and  cooking  until 
thickened* 


Wine -fried  Muskrat 

Soak  muskrat  ©"vieraight  in  slightly  salted  -water.     Drain  and  boil  in 
fresh  water  until  tender.     Separate  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  fry  in 
shortening.     As  this  is  frying,   pour  over  it  a  little  sweet  wine,   sherry 
wine  being  generally  used.     Some  prefer  to  serve  the  meat  on  a  hot  platter 
and  then  pour  the  wine  over  it» 

Broiled  Marsh  Rabbit 

Clean  and  wash  the  muskrat  emd  wipe  it  with  a  damp  cloth.  Butter 
thoroughly  and  brush  with  a  thin  mixture  of  vinegar  and  mustard.  Dust 
well  with  prepared  poultry  seasoning,  place  in  broiler,  and  broil  for 
20  minutes* 

Smothered  Muskrat 

After  soaking  the  muskrat  overnight,  drain  and  parboil  for  20  minutes. 
Heat  some  sausage  or  bacon  drippings  in  a  thick  skillet  and  sear  meat  in  it« 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  onion.  Sprinkle  with  flour  and  add  a 
little  water.  Then  cover  and  allow  it  to  simmer  until  thoroughly  done. 

Maryland  Potted  or  Baked  Muskrat 

Soak  2  muskrats  overnight,  drain,  and  cut  into  pieces.  Pour  boiling 
water  over  meat,  stir  thoroughly,  and  drain.  Place  in  a  thick  skillet  or 
iron  pot,  add  a  little  water,  a  pod  of  red  pepper  or  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
red  cayenne.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  little  sage  and  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  bacon  or  sausage  drippings.  If  desired,  a  generous 
piece  of  washed  salt  pork  may  be  used  instead.  Sprinkle  flour  over  top, 
cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  tender,  basting  several 
times  until  well  browned. 

Enough  potatoes  for  the  meal  may  be  cooked  with  the  meat,  or  the  musk- 
rat  can  be  served  with  diced,  buttered  white  or  sweet  potatoes,  peas,  or 
carrots • 

Muskrat  a  la  Terrapin 

Boil  the  meat  in  slightly  salted  water  for  about  an  hour  or  until 
tender  but  firm.  Drain  off  the  cooking  water.  Remove  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Cover  the  bones  with  cold  water  and 
let  simmer.  Then  add  this  juice  to  the  meat.  For  each  muskrat,  hard- 
boil  3  or  4  eggs.  Mash  the  yolks  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  stir 
until  smooth,  suid  add  a  level  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  and  abput  half  a  cup  of  cream.  Put  iil  the  chopped  egg  whites, 
fimd  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Then  mix  all  of  this  with  the  muskrat  meat 
and  cook  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  thick.  Before  serving,  add  a  glass- 
ful of  sherry  wine. 


Miohlgaji  Speoial 

After  soaking  the  muskrat  overnight,  disjoint  it  and  cut  it  into 
pieces t  Put  it  into  fresh  water  and  parboil  for  5  minutes.  Drain  and 
rinse  with  warm  water.  Place  in  a  roaster  and  cover  with  canned  com 
and  a  little  water  or  milk,  using  2  cans  of  corn  to  3  nuskrats*  Add 
salt  euad  pepper,  3  me  divan- si  zed  onions,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  stir  the  pieces  as  they  brown.  Bake  about  2^ 
hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  well  done. 

Layered  Muskrat  and  Com 

Soak  muskrat  overnight  in  slightly  salted  water.  Drain  and  parboil 
for  20  minutes  in  fresh  water  seasoned  with  a  little  celery,  onions,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Separate  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  place  it  in  a  casserole. 
Layer  it  with  canned  crushed  com  (a  layer  of  corn  and  then  a  layer  of 
meat),  topping  off  with  the  com.  Add  a  little  milk,  place  in  oven,  and 
bake  until  well  done  and  properly  browned  on  top* 

Marsh  Hare  a  la  Louis ianne 


Disjoint  legs  of  muskrats  and  soak  them  in  vinegar  for  30  minutes  or 
more.  Remove  from  vinegar.  Salt  and  pepper  well,  place  in  hot  cooking 
oil,  and  brown.  Then  remove  to  another  pot  with  about  2  quarts  of  hot 
water.  Chop  fine  a  piece  of  celery,  parsnip,  and  a  small  head  of  garlic. 
Brown  the  chopped  seasoning  in  the  cooking  oil  in  which  meat  was  browned, 
add  2  cans  of  tomato  or  pin»nto  sauce,  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  for  5 
minutes.  Pour  this  sauce  into  pot  with  the  muskrat  legs  and  cook  over  low 
heat  vmtil  done,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
and  a  few  bay  leaves. 

Pickled  Muskrat 

Place  muskrat  in  a  crock  or  glass  jar  containing  a  solution  of  a  cup 
of  water,  a  cup  of  cider  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  mixed,  spices, 
and  bay  leaves.  Let  stand  in  a  cold  place  for  at  least  24,  and  preferably 
48,  hours.  Then  simmer  in  the  same  mixture  until  tender.  Remove  meat, 
strain  off  the  spices  and  bay  leaves,  and  thicken  the  liquid  with  flour  and 
water  to  the  desired  consistency. 

This  dish  is  best  seirved  with  potato  dumplings.  To  make  the  dumplings, 
fry  a  medium-sized  onion  in  2  tablespoons  of  fat,  then  pour  this  over  4 
cups  of  diced  bread,  and  mix  by  hand.  Add  a  cup  of  mashed  potatoes  and  mix 
thoroughly,  then  2  raw  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Fashion  lightly  into  large  balls,  drop  into  boiling  water  in  an  uncovered 
pot  or  kettle,  and  cook  for  20  minutes.  Serve  with  brown  gravy. 

Muskrat  Pie 


Soak  muskrat  overnight  in  slightly  salted  water.  Drain,  wipe  the 
meat  with  a  damp  cloth,  and  cut  into  two  or  three  pieces.  Place  in  a 


kettle,  barely  cover  it  with  water,  add  a  little  salt,  and  let  simmer 
1  to  2  hours  until  the  meat  is  tender »  Pour  off  and  measure  the  broth. 
Remove  the  meat  from  the  bones  in  large  pieces.  Chop  up  an  onion,  a 
green  pepper,  and  half  a  cup  of  parsley,  smd  put  in  a  skillet  with  several 
table spoonfuls  of  butter  or  other  fat.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring 
frequently.  For  each  cup  of  broth,  take  1^  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and 
mix  well  with  the  fat  and  seasonings.  Pour  in  the  broth  and  stir  until 
thickened.  Salt  to  taste  and  add  a  dash  of  tabasco  sauce.  Mix  in  the 
meat  well  and  place  in  individued  baJcing  dishes.  Cover  with  pastry  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  crust  is  a  golden  brown. 

Maryland  Shredded  Muskrat 

Soak  2  muskrats  in  slightly  salted  water  for  2  days,  changing  the 
water  twice  a  day.  Cut  up  and  boil  in  water  sufficient  only  to  cover, 
^en  tender,  remove  meat  from  the  bones,  and  shred  into  small,  narrow 
pieces  about  2  inches  or  less  in  length.  Place  in  frying  pan  or  other 
container  with  Just  enough  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled  to 
cover,  add  2  tablespoons  of  bacon  drippings,  1  tablespoon  of  sage,  a 
little  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste*  Place  in  oven, 
turn  frequently  until  well  browned  but  still  moist,  and  serve  hot. 

Muskrat  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Disjoint  and  cut  into  pieces  2  muskrats.     Place  in  a  deep  pan,   cover 
well  with  water,  add  ^  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
1  sliced  onion,  and  cook  about  an  hour,   or  until  thoroughly  tender.     Melt 
half  a  cup  of  fat  in  a  thick  skillet.     Place  meat  in  the  hot  skillet, 
brown  on  one  side,  turn,  and  immediately  pour  over  it  about  two-thirds  of 
a  small-sized  bottle  of  catchup  and  a  teagpoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce* 
If  desired,   the  pieces  of  onion  saved  from  the  first  water  and  a  small 
piece  of  celery  may  be  added*     Almost  cover  with  water  and  let  simmer  un- 
til the  gravy  is  thick  enough  to  serve. 

Muskrat  Patties 

Soak  muskrat  overnight  in  slightly  salted  water*     Drain  and  parboil 
in  fresh  water  until  tender.     Remove  the  meat  from  the  bones,  run  through 
meat  grinder  if  desired,   season  with  salt,  pepper,  euad  onion,  mix  in  a 
small  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  and  fashion  into  patties*     Dip  these   into 
well-beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  brown. 

Muskrat  Salad 

After  soaJcing  muskrat  overnight  in  salted  water,  drain  and  boil  in 
fresh  water,  seasoned  with  salt,  and  pepper  for  flavoring,  until  meat  is 
tender  but  finn.  Separate  meat  from  the  bones,  cut  it  into  small  pieces, 
and  prepare  like  chicken  or  other  meat  salad*  With  mayonnaise  only  added, 
it  may  be  used  as  a  sandwich  spread. 


Stevred  Muskrat  Llvor 

Care  must  bo  taken  to  remove  all  gall  bladders.     Soak  the  livers  over- 
night in  fresh  water.     Simmer  for  10  minutes,   draw  off  the  water,  and  then 
simmer  again  in  water  in  which  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork  has  been  added. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  sliced  onion,  and  stew  down,  thickening  the 
liquid  with  a  little  flour, 

Muskrat  liver  is  somewhat  grainy.     Hovrever,   it  tastes  like  that  of 
chicken  and  is  much  relishgd. 

Preserving  Muskrat  Ifeat 

During  the  trapping  season  th9  wives  of  trappers  and  fanners  living  on 
or  near  marsh  areas  where  muskrats  are  produced  preserve  the  meat  for  later 
use.  This  is  done  by  ordinary  home -pre serving  methods.  A  favorite  way  is 
to  parboil  the  meat,  fry  it  lightly,  and  then  pack  it  tightly  in  glass  or 
earthen  jars.  Melted  fat  should  then  be  poured  over  it  until  it  covers  the 
meat  about  one-quarter  of  an  inch,  in  the  same  manner  as  country  sausage  is 
commonly  preserved. 

The  quick-freezing  method  and  the  locker  service  furnished  by  ice  and 
refrigerating  companies  have  made  it  possible  to  develop  still  further  the 
preservation  of  muskrat  meat.  The  usual  procedure  is  to  bleuach  or  lightly 
parboil  the  meat,  wrap  it  in  special  waxed  paper,  and  then  quick-freeze  it# 


28730 


r 


POTTED   OR   BAKED    MUSKRAT     (RECIPE   PAGE    s) 


MARYLAND    SHREDDED    MUSKRAT        (RECIPE    PAGE    5) 


