THREE  MEALS  ADAf  SERIES 


ICE 


FOR 


BREAKFAST, 
DINNER,  SUPPER 


BESSIE  R.  MURPHY 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


RICE 


FOR 


BREAKFAST,  DINNER,  SUPPER 


Compiled  and  Edited  By 
BESSIE  R.  MURPHY 

Southern  Food  Expert  and  Lecturer 


RAND  McNALLY  AND  COMPANY 
CHICAGO  NEW  YORK 


Copyright,  IQIQ,  by 
Rand  McNally  &  Company 


FEB  -8 1919 

CI.A512288 


i 


Dedicated  to 

SOMEBODY    SOMEWHERE 

To  be  used  by 

EVERYBODY    EVERYWHERE 


They  had  best  not  stir  the  rice, 
though  it  sticks  to  the  pot. 

Don  Quixote 

Cookery  ....  means  the  econ- 
omy of  your  great-grandmothers,  and 
the  science  of  modern  chemists;  it 
means  much  tasting  and  no  wasting; 
it  means  English  thoroughness,  and 
French  art,  and  Arabian  hospitality; 
and  it  means,  in  fine,  that  you  are 
to  be  perfectly  and  always  "ladies" 
— loaf -givers. 

RUSKIN 


THE  INTRODUCTION 

This  little  series  of  books  is  a  collection  of  tested  and 
economical  recipes  for  everyday  foods  that  are  obtainable 
everywhere  and  suitable  for  any  of  the  three  meals  of  the 
day.  These  recipes  are  written  in  plain,  everyday  terms. 
They  are  not  all  original  —  the  authors  of  many  of  them 
are  unknown.  They  form  just  a  little  series  of  everyday 
books  for  everybody  from  everywhere. 

The  war  has  given  every  homemaker  an  opportunity  to 
realize  the  difference  between  USE  and  ABUSE  of  foods. 
For  years  we  have  wasted  much  of  the  bountiful  supply  of 
food  produced  by  our  country.  Let  us  then  not  go  back- 
ward, but  let  us  go  forward  bending  every  energy  to  make 
lasting  the  benefit  in  health  and  economy  gained  from  a 
diet  that  not  only  eliminates  extravagance  and  waste  in 
buying  and  serving,  but  also  affords  greater  variety. 

The  recipes  in  this  series  call  for  flour,  sugar,  and  butter. 
To  conserve  these  three  foods  just  as  long  as  our  country 
and  the  Allies  need  them  is  the  loyal  and  patriotic  duty  of 
—  not  the  other  fellow  —  but  you. 

MEASUREMENTS 

All  measurements  should  be  accurate  to  insure  success. 

A  standard  measuring  cup  is  equal  to  %  pint. 

All  measures  are  leveled. 

For  yi  spoon  divide  with  knife  lengthwise. 

For  %  spoon  divide  with  knife  crosswise. 

For  yi  spoon  divide  with  knife  crosswise. 

Substitutes 
The  same  substitutes  are  not  obtainable  in  every  state, 
and  for  this  reason  the  following  tables  are  given.     You  may 
use  the  ones  to  be  obtained  in  your  community. 


VI 


THE  INTRODUCTION 


FLOUR 

For  i  cup  of  wheat  flour,  substitute : 
i}i  cups  barley 

yi  cup    buckwheat 
i         "     cornflour 
i  "     meal 

i  "     starch 

i  peanut  flour 

y^     "     potato  flour 

J/i     "     rice  flour 
i}4  cups  rolled  oats 

J4>  cup    soy-bean  flour 
i}i  cups  sweet-potato  flour 

SUGAR 

For  i  cup  of  sugar,  use: 

1^4  cups  corn  syrup 
honey 
maple  sirup 


molasses 


BUTTER 

In  place  of  one  cup  of  butter,  use : 

i  cup  oleomargarine 

$4  cup  chicken  fat 

Pi  cup  clarified  dripping 

yi  cup  solid  vegetable  fat,  such  as  Crisco 

2<4  cup  cotton  seed  oil 

^/i  cup  peanut  oil 

Y^  cup  corn  oil 


RICE 

ORIGIN,  USE,  AND  FOOD  VALUE 

Importance.  "May  you  have  plenty  of  rice  to-day"  is 
the  greeting,  in  all  parts  of  the  world  where  this  tiny  grain 
is  the  symbol  of  prosperity.  It  is  not  a  new  food,  for  it 
was  used  by  the  Romans  and  Greeks  and  was  mentioned 
several  hundred  years  before  Christ.  To-day  rice  is  the 
principal  food  for  one-third  of  the  world's  population,  is 
sold  in  every  country,  and  is  found  on  the  tables  of  the  rich 
as  well  as  of  the  poor.  It  is  not  expensive  when  its  cost 
and  nourishment  are  compared  with  those  of  other  foods. 

Rice  deserves  to  be  more  appreciated  and  to  be  served 
three  times  a  day,  for  it  can  be  used  in  various  ways :  as  a 
cereal,  soup,  salad,  dinner  vegetable,  bread,  dessert,  invalid 
food,  and  in  made-over  dishes. 

Food  value.  While  rice  is  deficient  in  protein,  mineral 
matter,  and  fat,  it  is  the  richest  cereal  in  starch.  As  an 
energy-giving  food  it  leads  the  following:  corn,  wheat,  oats, 
fat  beef,  lean  beef,  and  potatoes. 

As  a  food  to  balance  the  diet,  rice  is  ideal. 

Potatoes,  bread,  and  other  starchy  foods  should  not  be 
used  at  the  same  meal  with  rice,  as  they  have  the  same 
food  value.     If  used  at  all,  they  should  be  used  sparingly. 

Rice  and  cheese  make  a  good  combination,  for  the  cheese 
furnishes  the  protein  and  fat  that  the  rice  lacks.  Tomato 
sauce  with  rice  gives  the  acid  and  salts  that  are  lacking. 

Either  eggs,  milk,  or  meat  at  the  same  meal  with  rice  are 
good,  served  separately  or  in  combination.  Rice  may  also 
be  served  with  beef,  veal,  chicken,   and  any  lean  meat.     It 


4  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

may  be  eaten  with  beans,  peas,  cheese,  and  other  highly 
nitrogenous  foods.  Because  it  has  a  low  quantity  of  cellu- 
lose, rice  is  easy  to  digest  and  makes  an  excellent  starchy 
food  for  young  children. 

Grades  of  rice.  There  are  three  grades  of  rice:  brown  or 
unpolished  rice,  polished  rice,  and  coated  rice.  The  brown 
or  unpolished  rice  is  the  only  grade  that  retains  the  flavor 
of  the  whole  grain.  Few  people  really  know  the  taste  of 
rice,  because  in  the  polishing  process  rice  loses  not  only 
flavor,  but  also  much  of  its  mineral  salts.  If  once  used,  the 
brown  rice  will  always  be  used,  since  it  is  richer  in  flavor. 

Rice  is  polished  to  improve  its  appearance.  This  polishing, 
however,  does  not  improve  it  as  a  food,  but  rather  detracts 
from  both  its  food  value  and  its  flavor. 

Rice  with  the  " shiny' '  look  is  coated.  This  rice  has 
received  a  coating  of  glucose  and  talcum  powder  and  is 
the  most  expensive  kind.  Glucose  is  a  harmless  substance 
that  easily  dissolves  in  cold  water,  but  the  adulteration  of 
rice  by  substances  that  are  not  foods  is  quite  unnecessary. 

HOW  TO  COOK  RICE 

In  the  preparation  of  rice  there  are  two  principles  that 
must  be  observed.  First,  it  must  be  cooked  long  enough 
to  render  it  digestible.  If  it  is  cooked  in  a  double  boiler, 
45  minutes  should  be  allowed;  if  it  is  boiled  directly  over 
the  stove,  30  or  40  minutes.  Second,  it  must  be  cooked  in 
such  a  way  that  the  individual  grains  retain  their  shape. 
Instead  of  forming  a  pasty  mass,  the  grains  should  remain 
separate  from  one  another. 

It  is  always  best  to  cook  starchy  foods  slowly  and  at  a 
low  temperature  rather  than  to  boil  them.  Therefore  it  is 
preferable  to  steam  rice.     Never  stir  rice. 


RICE  S 

First  wash  rice  through  several  waters,  or  until  the  water 
is  unclouded.     This  will  remove  the  foreign  substances. 

Boiled  Rice 

yi  cup  rice  2  cups  water 

yi  teaspoon  salt 

Bring  water  to  boil,  add  salt  and  rice  slowly,  a  little  at  a 
time  to  keep  the  grains  separate.  Cook  until  grains  are 
soft.  Drain  through  colander  and  pour  yi  pint  cold  water 
through  the  rice  to  separate  the  grains.  Cover  pot  with 
cloth  and  set  on  back  of  stove  (warm  place)  for  10  minutes 
to  allow  the  grains  to  swell.  Run  knife  around  side  of  pot 
to  remove  the  rice.     Serve  hot. 

Rice  in  Double  Boiler 

yi  cup  rice  i}4  cups  water 

}4  teaspoon  salt 

Have  water  boiling  in  upper  part  of  double  boiler  and 
add  salt  and  well-washed  rice.  Cover  pot  and  allow  rice 
to  cook  until  grains  are  soft.  Remove  lid  and  cook  until 
rice  is  dry,  or  pour  off  excess  water  and  set  pot  in  oven  to  dry. 

Rice  in  Fireless  Cooker 

yi  cup  rice  i$4  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  rice,  add  salt  and  rice  to  boiling  water,  boil  3  minutes. 
Place  in  fireless  cooker,  and  cook  1  hour,  or  until  soft. 

To  Reheat  Rice 
Pour  a  little  boiling  water  over  the  rice  and  heat  with 
cover  on  vessel;  or  the  best  way  is  to  place  rice  in  colander 
over  pot  of  boiling  water  for  five  minutes. 


6  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

RICE   FOR   BREAKFAST 

Cereal 

Boil  or  steam  as  when  reheating  rice.  Serve  hot  with 
cream  and  sugar,  or  fruit. 

Rice  Waffles 

i  cup  cooked  rice  i  tablespoon  sugar  (if  desired) 

i  cup  flour  yi  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  i  teaspoon  butter 

Sweet  milk  i}4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Press  rice  through  a  sieve  or  colander.  Rub  the  butter 
into  the  sugar;  sift  together  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder 
and  add  mixture  to  the  sugar  and  butter.  Then  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  rice.  Thin  with  milk  to  the  con- 
sistency of  cake  batter  and  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Have  the  waffle-iron  hot  and  well  greased;  fill  two- 
thirds  full,  close,  and  turn  when  lower  side  is  brown. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes 

2  cups  cooked  rice  i  teaspoon  sugar 

i  pint  flour  (may  be  omitted) 

i  egg  }4  teaspoon  salt 

}4  pint  sweet  milk  i}4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  baking  powder;  add  rice,  free 
from  lumps,  and  diluted  with  the  beaten  egg  and  milk;  mix 
into  smooth  batter.  Have  griddle  well  heated  and  greased. 
Bake  cakes  a  golden  brown  and  serve  with  sirup. 

Rice  Gems 

i  cup  cooked  rice  i  egg 

i  cup  flour  i  teaspoon  baking  powder 

i  cup  milk  J4  teaspoon  salt 

i  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Mix  and  bake  in  well-greased  gem  pans  in  hot  oven. 


RICE  7 

Corn  and  Rice  Muffins 

i  pint  corn  meal  i  egg 

i  cup  cooked  rice  i  tablespoon  flour 

i  pint  sweet  milk  i  tablespoon  butter 

2    tablespoons  baking  powder 
Mix  and  bake  in  well-greased  muffin  pans  the  same  as 
regular  muffins. 

Rice  Spoon  Bread 

i  cup  cooked  rice  i  pint  sweet  milk 

2  eggs  }4  tablespoon  butter 

yi  cup  corn  meal  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

ij^  teaspoons  salt 
To  the  well-beaten  eggs,  add  the  rice,  milk,  and  butter. 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  them  to  the  first 
mixture.     Pour  batter  into  a  hot,   well-greased  pan  and 
bake  for  45  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  hot. 

Soft  Rice  Bread 

1  cup  cooked  rice  ^  teaspoon  salt 

yi  cup  corn  flour  1  tablespoon  fat 

1  cup  milk  1  egg 

Mix  the  rice,  fat,  salt,  and  well-beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Add 
flour  and  milk.  Mix  thoroughly  and  fold  well-beaten  white 
of  egg  into  mixture.  Pour  batter  into  greased  baking  dish 
and  bake  }4  hour  in  moderate  oven.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Rice  Corn  Bread 

i}4  cups  cooked  rice  1  cup  milk 

1^2  cups  corn  meal  ^  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  fat 
Mix  as  ordinary  corn  bread.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


8  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Fried  Rice 

Take  any  rice  that  is  left  over,  and  mold  it  in  a  pan  or 
dish.  Turn  out  of  molds,  cut  in  slices,  and  bake  on  both 
sides  in  oven  or  fry  in  hot  drippings  or  bacon  fat. 

Rice  Bread 

i  cup  lukewarm  water,        i  tablespoon  sugar 
milk,  or  a  mixture  of       Butter  (if  used)  or  other 
the  two  fat,  i  tablespoon  or  less 

i  cup  uncooked  rice  i  cake  compressed  yeast 

i}i  teaspoons  salt  2  cups  wheat  flour 

Place  rice  and  one-half  the  liquid  in  a  double  boiler  and 
steam  until  the  rice  is  soft.  Measure  the  sugar,  salt,  and 
fat  (if  used)  into  a  bowl  and  pour  over  them  the  remaining 
liquid  {yi  cup).  When  the  mixture  has  become  luke- 
warm, add  the  yeast  and  yi  cup  flour.  Allow  this  sponge 
to  rise  until  it  is  very  light.  Add  the  boiled  rice,  which 
should  have  been  cooked  until  it  is  lukewarm,  and  the 
remainder  of  the  flour.  Knead  thoroughly.  This  dough 
is  so  thick  tha/t  some  pressure  is  required  to  work  in  the  last 
portions  of  the  flour.  Allow  the  dough  to  rise  until  it  has 
doubled  its  bulk,  form  into  a  loaf,  place  loaf  in  a  pan,  and 
allow  it  to  rise  until  it  reaches  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  pan. 
Bake.     For  an   over-night  rising  use  one-half  cake  yeast. 

Creole  Rice  Bread 

2  cups  corn  meal  3  eggs 

1  cup  boiled  rice  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  cups  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Beat  eggs  very  light,  and  add  the  other  ingredients.    Pour 
batter  into  greased  pan  and  bake  quickly.     Serve  hot. 


RICE  9 

Rice  Omelet 

yi  cup  cooked  rice  i  egg 

Salt  and  pepper 
Mix  beaten  egg  with  rice.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Cook  the  same  as  any  other  omelet  and  serve  hot. 

Rice  Souffle 

3  eggs  i  cup  cooked  rice 

*  i  cup  medium  white  sauce 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add  them  to  the  white 
sauce.  Add  the  boiled  rice.  Beat  whites  very  light  and 
fold  into  the  mixture.  Turn  batter  into  a  greased  skillet 
and  cook  at  moderate  temperature  until  the  lower  surface 
is  browned;  turn  out  on  a  hot  plate,  and  serve. 

WHITE   SAUCE  FOR  SOUFFLE 

i  cup  milk  i  tablespoon  corn  starch 

i  tablespoon  fat  yi  teaspoon  salt 

yi  teaspoon  pepper 
Melt  fat,  stir  in  cornstarch,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  then 
add  milk.     Heat,  stirring  until  thickened. 

RICE   FOR   DINNER 
Cream  of  Rice  Soup 

i  cup  rice  i  cup  milk 

6  cups  cold  water  2  tablespoons  butter  or 

1  small  onion  drippings 

1  teaspoon  chopped  2  tablespoons  flour 

parsley  (if  desired)  Salt  and  pepper 

Place  rice  and  onion  in  cold  water  and  cook  until  rice  is 
tender.  Press  through  a  sieve.  Melt  fat,  add  flour,  milk,  and 
seasonings ;  boil  5  minutes.   Combine  mixtures.    Add  parsley. 


io  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Rice  Soup  with  Vegetables 

When  boiling  rice  in  a  quantity  of  water,  do  not  throw 
away  the  water.  Drain  it  into  a  saucepan  and  add  diced 
carrots,  bits  of  celery  tops,  and  green  onions,  a  little  parsley, 
or  any  other  tender  greens  or  vegetables,  such  as  cooked 
peas  or  string  beans  cut  into  small  pieces.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  simmer  gently  until  vegetables  are 
cooked.  More  water  may  be  added  if  necessary,  but  if  soup 
merely  simmers,  not  much  of  the  water  will  evaporate 

Baked  Rice  with  Cheese 

Steam  or  boil  i  cup  rice,  allowing  i  tablespoon  salt. 
Cover  bottom  of  buttered  baking  dish  with  rice,  dot  over 
with  i  tablespoon  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  mild 
cheese  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Repeat  layers  until 
rice  and  y^  cup  cheese  are  used.  Add  milk  equal  to  one- 
half  contents  of  dish,  cover  with  buttered  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  cheese  melts. 

Italian  Rice 

2  cups  boiled  rice  i    cup   tomato  sauce  or 

i  tablespoon  butter  tomato  chutney 

Place  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  add  to 
it  the  boiled  rice  and  the  tomato  sauce  or  tomato  chutney. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  until  heated  through. 
Then  serve,  sprinkling  plentifully  with  grated  cheese. 

Russian  Rice 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  spread  a  one-inch  layer  of  boiled 
rice  over  the  bottom.  Over  this  sprinkle  finely  chopped 
tomatoes,  fresh  or  canned.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 

and  dot  well  with  butter.     Then  add  another  layer  of  rice 


RICE  ii 

somewhat  thinner,  spreading  over  it  finely  chopped  green 
peppers,  and  so  alternate  tomatoes,  pepper,  and  rice  until 
the  dish  is  well  filled,  having  a  layer  of  rice  on  the  top. 
Garnish  the  center  of  the  dish  with  slices  of  tomato,  and 
encircle  the  edge  with  thinly  cut  rings  from  the  pepper. 
Pour  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  over  all,  cover  lightly 
with  a  tin  cover,  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  twenty  minutes. 
Just  before  serving,  add  2  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

Spanish  Rice 

T/2  cup  shortening  5  small  onions 

yi  cup  grated  cheese  1  cup  hot  water 

6  tablespoons  rice  y$  cup  chopped  olives 

1  can  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  rice  and  put  it  in  a  bowl;  add  shortening,  seasonings, 
cheese,  hot  water,  and  tomatoes,  olives  and  onions  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Turn  mixture  into  a  well-greased  baking 
dish  and  bake  until  rice  is  tender. 

Boiled  Rice  with  Cheese  Sauce 
Hot  boiled  rice  is  delicious  served  with  cheese  sauce. 

CHEESE    SAUCE    FOR   RICE 

i}4  cups  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

i}4  cups  grated  cheese  i}i  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  Cayenne  pepper 

Stir  the  flour  and  salt  smoothly  into  }4  cup  milk;  heat 
the  remaining  milk  carefully  to  boiling  point.  Add  butter, 
and  thicken  with  the  flour  mixture.  Let  all  boil  together 
for  a  few  minutes  and  then  set  aside  to  cool  slightly.  Add 
cheese,  and  bring  mixture  slowly  to  boiling  point,  stirring 
constantly.     Season  with  cayenne  and  serve  hot. 


12  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Rice  Fritters 
i  cup  rice  i  pint  milk 

i  tablespoon  sugar  3  eggs 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Boil  rice  in  milk  until  it  is  soft  and  all  the  milk  has  been 
absorbed.  Then  remove  from  fire,  and  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
sugar,  and  butter.  When  mixture  is  cold,  add  whites, 
whipped  to  a  dry  froth.  Drop  by  the  spoonful  into  plenty 
of  hot  lard,  and  fry  until  fritters  are  a  deep  buff  color. 
Serve  with  cream  sauce,  flavored  with  lemon  if  desired. 

Rice  and  Oyster  Scallop 

3  cups  cooked  rice  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1  pint  fresh  oysters  1  tablespoon  fat 

1  cup  chopped  celery  yi  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  yi  teaspoon  pepper 

Make  a  white  sauce  by  melting  the  fat,  stirring  in  the 
cornstarch,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  then  adding  the  milk. 
Stir  mixture  over  the  fire  until  it  is  thickened.  Arrange  in 
a  baking  dish  alternate  layers  of  rice,  oysters,  celery,  and 
white  sauce  until  dish  is  nearly  full.  Have  a  layer  of  rice 
covering  the  top.     Bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Stuffed  Steak 

1  pound  round  steak  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

2  cups  boiled  rice  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 
Salt                                        Paprika 

Blend  the  rice  with  the  seasoning.  Pound  the  steak  until 
it  is  thin.  Spread  the  steak  with  a  layer  of  the  rice  stuffing 
about  y^  inch  thick.  Roll  and  tie  in  shape  or  fasten  with 
skewers.  Place  in  a  covered  pan  with  enough  water  to 
keep  steak  from  burning,  and  cook  in  the  oven  30  minutes. 


RICE  13 

Take  off  the  cover,  and  brown  the  steak  before  removing 
it  from  the  oven.  Thicken  the  stock  left  in  the  pan  for 
gravy.  If  preferred,  make  individual  servings.  Cut  a 
3 -inch  square  of  steak,  place  a  tablespoonful  of  the  dressing 
in  the  center,  roll  the  steak  around  it,  and  fasten.  Place 
in  a  pan  with  a  little  water  and  cook  as  the  roast  was  cooked. 
These  smaller  rolls  are  very  good  served  with  tomato  sauce. 

Southern  Steak  with  Rice 

2  pounds  beefsteak  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  onion  2  cups  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  Worcester- 

1  cup  boiled  rice  shire  sauce 

Parsley 

Slice  beefsteak  into  thin,  small  pieces.  Brown  the  onion 
and  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  sliced  meat,  and  fry  for 
5  minutes.  Cover  with  the  boiled  rice,  and  sprinkle  with 
the  flour.  Add  milk  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Add  pars- 
ley and  let  cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer  and  serve. 

Baked  Rice 

1  cup  rice  1  cup  tomatoes 

yi  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  butter 

2%  cups  water  Pepper 

Cook  rice  in  salt  water  1  hour.  Add  tomatoes  and  butter, 
and  cook  1 5  minutes.  Pour  mixture  into  buttered  baking 
dish,  cover  top  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  until  brown. 

Giblets  with  Rice 

1  cup  giblets  1  cup  cooked  rice 

ij<£  cuPs  gravy  Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  giblets  in  small  pieces.     Mix  with  gravy  and  rice. 


14  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Savory  Rice 

{Substitute  for  meat  and  potatoes) 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  3  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

substitute  1  hard  boiled  egg  (chopped) 

6  tablespoons  boiled  rice        Milk 

4  tablespoons  cooked  carrots  (chopped) 

Melt  the  butter,  add  rice,  carrots,  cheese,  and  egg  (egg 
may  be  omitted  if  desired.)  Moisten  with  milk  and  season 
well.     Pour  mixture  into  a  baking  dish  and  brown  in  oven. 

Rice  and  Cabbage 

1  cup  stock  or  boiling  water       J4  cup  boiled  rice 

2  thin  slices  bacon  }4  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 
}4  medium-sized  cabbage         Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cut  the  bacon  into  small  bits,  add  cabbage  finely  chopped, 
and  moisten  with  the  boiling  water  or  stock.  Cook  slowly, 
uncovered,  for  30  minutes.  Add  the  rice,  parsley,  salt,  and 
pepper,  and  cook  15  minutes  longer. 

Kidney  Beans  and  Rice  with  Brown  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  drippings     1  pint  beans 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  cup  cooked  rice 

2  cups  stock  or  gravy  Salt  and  pepper 

Brown  the  butter  or  drippings  in  a  saucepan  until  dark 
colored,  but  do  not  burn.  Add  flour,  stir,  and  brown 
again.  Add  good  stock  (beef  is  best),  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Cook  the  fresh  shelled  beans  in  salted 
water  until  tender.  Add  the  cooked  rice  and  then  the 
sauce,  and  cook  1  minute  longer.  If  gravy  is  used,  butter  (or 
drippings)  should  be  left  out.  In  food  value  this  nourishing 
dish  takes  the  place  of  both  meat  and  potatoes. 


RICE  IS 

Rice  and  Pimento  Salad 

i  cup  cooked  rice      3  tablespoons  chopped  pimento 
3  tablespoons  chopped  green  pepper 

Mix  ingredients  and  season.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  may- 
onnaise or  French  dressing.     Garnish  with  strips  of  pimento. 

RICE   FOR  SUPPER 

Rice  Croquettes 

yi  cup  rice  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  egg  or  yolks  of  2  eggs  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  hot  milk  }4  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  rice  with  water,  milk,  and  salt,  in  double  boiler 
until  rice  is  tender  and  liquid  has  been  absorbed.  Stir  in 
the  beaten  eggs  and  butter.  Cool,  shape  in  balls,  roll  in 
crumbs,  dip  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and 
drain.     A  cube  of  jelly  may  be  placed  in  each  croquette. 

Beef  and  Rice  Croquettes 

1  pint  cold  chopped  beef         y&  cup  chopped  celery 

1  pint  boiled  rice  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  celery  salt  Cream  sauce 

Mix  the  chopped  beef,  rice,  celery  salt,  and  celery  together, 
and  add  the  beaten  egg  and  enough  cream  sauce  to  moisten 
the  mixture.  When  it  is  cold,  form  it  into  croquettes  and 
fry  in  deep  hot  fat. 

Rice  Balls  with  Cheese  and  Tomato  Sauce 

Form  balls  of  cooked  rice  and  dip  them  in  grated  cheese. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  cheese  is  brown.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 


1 6  THREE-MBALS-A-DAY  series 

TOMATO    SAUCE 

i  quart  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  8  cloves 

Salt  and  pepper  Small  slice  onion 

Cook  the  tomatoes,  onions,  and  cloves  10  minutes.  Heat 
the  butter  in  frying  pan  and  add  the  flour.  Stir  mixture 
over  fire  until  smooth  and  brown,  and  then  stir  in  tomato. 
Cook  2  minutes,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
rub  through  a  strainer  to  remove  the  tomato  seed. 

Rice  Cream 

Yi  cup  uncooked  rice  ^2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  quart  skimmed  milk  Salt 

To  uncooked  rice  add  skimmed  milk,  cinnamon,  and  salt. 
Pour  mixture  into  a  greased  dish  and  bake  3  hours  in 
slow  oven,  stirring  three  times  the  first  hour  to  prevent  rice 
from  settling.     The  rice  should  be  creamy  when  baked. 

Escalloped  Rice 

2  cups  cooked  rice  1  cup  white  sauce  or  tomato  sauce 

yi  cup  grated  cheese  (2  oz.)        %  cup  buttered  crumbs 

Spread  a  layer  of  rice  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking 
dish.  Add  a  layer  of  white  sauce,  then  one  of  grated 
cheese.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  and  then  spread 
buttered  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  for  20  minutes,  or  until  the 
crumbs  are  brown  and  sauce  bubbles  up  through  the  crumbs. 

Note.  For  white  sauce,  use  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon 
butter,  1  teaspoon  flour,  yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Chartreuse  of  Rice  and  Egg 

Line  an  individual  mold  with  cooked  rice,  leaving  a  hollow 
in  the  center.  Place  yi  hard  cooked  egg  point  down  in 
hollow.     Fill   mold   with   rice,    packing  lightly.     Place   in 


RICE  t7 

covered  pan  in  small  quantity  of  water  to  keep  warm. 
Invert  on  plate  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Baked  Hash  of  Rice  and  Beef 

i  cup  chopped  beef  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  cooked  rice  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  yi  teaspoon  pepper 

1  egg 
Into  a  stewpan  put  all  the  ingredients  except  the  egg. 
Stir  mixture  for  1  minute,  and  then  add  well-beaten  egg. 
Turn  hash  into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  for  20  minutes. 

RICE   FOR   DESSERT 

Golden  Rice  Pudding 

1  cup  boiled  rice  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
4  egg  yolks,  or  3  whole  eggs         1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  milk  i>2  teaspoons  nutmeg 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  milk,  sugar,  and  seasonings.  Add 
this  mixture  gradually  to  the  boiled  rice.  Pour  into  but- 
tered baking  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  y^  hour. 

Meringue  of  Rice 

1  cup  uncooked  rice  4  eggs 

i  pint  milk  Yz  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Have  a  pint  of  water  boiling  and  cook  the  rice  in  it.  When 
the  water  has  boiled  away,  add  milk,  butter,  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  grated  rind  of  lemon.  Butter  a  pudding  dish, 
pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  until  it  sets.  Beat  whites 
of  eggs  until  they  are  dry  and  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice. 


1 3  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

When  pudding  is  done,   spread  the  frosting   over  it  and 
brown  lightly  on  the  top. 

Swedish  Rice  Pudding 

%  cup  uncooked  rice  i  cup  sugar 

i  quart  milk  Salt 

Butter  i  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  rice  with  milk,  add  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  the 
vanilla.  Pour  mixture  into  a  pudding  dish.  Dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  done.     Serve  cold. 

Dutch  Rice  Pudding 

i  cup  uncooked  rice  Juice  of  i  lemon 

2  cups  milk  i  cup  sugar 

i  teaspoon  butter  Nutmeg  to  taste 

4  eggs  yi.  cup  chopped  raisins 

T/2  cup  nut  meats 

Mix  rice  with  milk,  add  butter,  yolks  of  eggs,  the  other 
ingredients  in  the  order  named,  and  finally  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff.     Bake  in  buttered  baking  dish.     Serve  cold. 

Rice  Bavarian  Cream 

3  cups  milk  i  tablespoon  or  yi  box 
]/2  cup  uncooked  rice  granulated  gelatin 
yi  cup  cold  water                     i  tablespoon  salt 

>2  cup  sugar  Nutmeg 

Whites  of  2  eggs 

Wash  rice  and  cook  with  sugar  and  salt  in  the  milk  until 
mixture  is  thick  and  soft.  Stir  frequently  in  order  to 
break  up  grains.  Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  and  then  dis- 
solve it  in  the  hot  rice  mixture.  Season  to  taste  with  nut- 
meg or  a  little  lemon  juice.     Cool  until  nearly  set.     Beat 


RICE  19 

well  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Turn 
into  molds  or  cups,  that  have  been  moistened  with  cold 
water.     Serve  plain  or  wTith  whipped  cream. 

Rice  Surprises 

yi  cup  uncooked  rice  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  cold  water  4  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  milk  Flavoring 

Preserves 

Wash  rice  in  several  waters  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan 
with  fresh,  cold  water.  Boil  quickly  until  the  water  is 
absorbed  and  then  add  milk  and  butter.  Simmer  until  the 
rice  is  thoroughly  cooked  and  the  mixture  rather  thick. 
Remove  the  saucepan  from  the  fire,  and  add  sugar  and 
flavoring  to  taste.  Rinse  out  some  small  molds  with  cold 
water,  fill  them  ^  full  with  rice,  and  make  little  hollows  in 
the  centers.  Drop  one  teaspoon  of  preserves  into  each, 
cover  and  fill  with  more  rice,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
molds  are  firm  turn  them  out  on  to  a  pretty  dish.  Serve 
with  custard  sauce  poured  around  them. 

Spiced  Rice  Pudding 

2  cups  cooked  rice  Yz  teaspoon  ground  spices 

Milk  2  teaspoons  brown  sugar 

Mix  rice,  sugar,  and  spices  in  glass  or  earthen  baking  dish. 
Add  milk  to  cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  thick. 

Chocolate  Rice  Pudding 

2  cups  cooked  rice  1  teaspoon  cocoa 

%  cup  granulated  sugar  Milk 

Mix  and  bake  the  same  as  the  spiced  rice  pudding. 


20  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Simple  Rice  Pudding 

i  cup  uncooked  rice  ^  cup  sugar 

i  quart  water  yi  teaspoon  salt 

i  quart  milk  Nutmeg 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly.  Boil  it  in  the  water  for  5  or 
10  minutes.  Remove  it  from  stove,  but  do  not  drain.  Add 
the  other  ingredients,  place  in  the  oven,  and  bake  very 
slowly  for  an  hour.     Stir  it  frequently  while  it  is  baking. 

Molded  Rice 

Press  warm,  cooked  rice  into  individual  molds.  Remove 
from  molds  when  cold  and  serve  with  fresh  fruit  and  cream. 
Crushed  strawberries  and  rice  are  especially  good. 

Rice  and  Pineapple 

1  cup  uncooked  rice  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  can  pineapple 

Add  the  washed  rice  to  the  boiling  salt  water  and  steam 
y2  hour.  Add  juice  from  pineapple  and  steam  15  minutes 
longer.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  pineapple  cut  into  small 
pieces.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  with  or  without  cream. 

Fruit  Rice  Mold 

%  cup  uncooked  rice  3  cups  wrater 

y$  CUP  hot  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

yi  cup  sugar 

Cook  rice  in  boiled  salt  water  until  dry.  Add  milk  and 
sugar  and  cook  10  minutes.  Turn  mixture  into  buttered 
mold.  When  cold,  remove  to  serving  dish  and  arrange  over 
it  half  a  can  of  peaches,  pineapple,  or  apricots.  Serve  with 
cream.     Fruit  juice  may  be  added  at  second  cooking. 


RICE  21 

Rice  Custard 
Add  a  cup  of  boiled  rice  to  soft  custard. 

Rice  Cream 

i  quart  milk  3  tablespoons  sugar 

\yi  cup  uncooked  rice  1  tablespoon  gelatin 

^2  pint  whipped  cream 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  rice,  and  cook  until  tender. 
Turn  out,  add  sugar  and  cool.  Soak  gelatin  in  yi  cup 
of  milk  10  minutes,  heat  until  gelatin  is  thoroughy  melted 
then  add  to  rice  mixture.  When  mixture  seems  to  be 
setting,  lightly  stir  in  whipped  cream,  then  turn  into  a  wret 
mold.     Chill  and  serve  with  cooked  or  fresh  fruit. 

Lemon  Rice  Pudding 

1  quart  milk     •  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cupful  uncooked  rice  2  lemons 

3  eggs  24  teaspoon  salt 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  slowly  drop  in  rice,  and  cook 
until  very  soft.  Stir  together  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  salt,  and 
grated  rind  of  lemons.  Add  gradually  the  hot  rice  and 
milk,  thinning  with  a  little  more  milk,  if  necessary,  to  make 
it  somewhat  thicker  than  a  boiled  custard.  Turn  into  a 
baking  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  10  minutes.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  add  to  the  sugar  and 
the  juice  of  the  lemons.  Cover  the  pudding  with  the 
meringue  and  bake  it  until  a  delicate  brown.     Serve  cold 

Japanese  Rice  Candy 
Press  cold  boiled  rice  into  balls,  and  add  nuts.    Toss  into 
boiling  candy  sirup,  then  allow  them  to  cool  and  harden. 


22  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

HOW   TO   USE   LEFT-OVER   RICE 

i.  Use  left-over  rice  in  place  of  bread  crumbs  for  thick- 
ening soup  or  in  making  quick  breads  and  scalloped  dishes. 

2.  Add  rice  to  boiled  custard  for  dessert. 

3.  Stuff  the  centers  of  whole  cold  baked  apples  with  rice 
and  raisins. 

4.  Reheat  rice,  arrange  it  on  platter,  and  surround  it 
with  cooked  carrots  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
butter. 

5.  Mix  rice  with  seasonings  and  a  little  minced  left-over 
meat  or  grated  cheese  to  make  a  good  stuffing  for  tomatoes 
or  green  peppers. 

6.  Serve  rice  with  prunes  to  make  a  dainty  dish. 

Left-over  Meat  in  Rice  Timbales 

1  cup  left-over  meat  yi  cup  gravy 

1  cup  cooked  rice 
Line  cups  or  molds  with  rice  (reheated).     Make  layer 
yi  inch  thick,  let  stand  15  minutes,  remove  from  cups,  and 
fill  with  meat  and  gravy  mixture. 

Uses  for  Rice  Water 

The  water  left  from  boiled  rice  contains  too  much  starch 
to  be  wasted.  When  cooked  down  until  thick  it  makes  a 
good  thickening  for  soups  in  place  of  flour. 

As  a  starch  for  sheer  materials  it  is  excellent. 

Rice  Water  for  Invalids 

2  tablespoons  rice  Milk 

3  cups  cold  water  Salt 

Wash  rice,  add  cold  water,  and  soak  for  30  minutes. 
Bring  it  gradually  to  boiling  point  and  cook  for  1  hour. 
Strain,  reheat,  and  dilute  with  hot  milk.     Season  with  salt. 


>-IBRARy 


