Doa 


IN 
NORTH    CAROLINA 


Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Arciiive 

in  2010  witii  funding  from 
State  Library  of  Nortii  Carolina 


http://www.archive.org/details/seafoodcookeryinOOnort 


The  delightful  seafood  delicacies  carefully  selected  from 
North  Carolina's  marine  supermarket  offer  many  succulent 
and  memorable  adventures  in  dining. 

To  assure  that  each  tasty  morsel  is  prepared  to  please  the 
palate  and  bring  out  all  the  choice  flavor,  ire  submit  this 
book  of  recipes. 

Your  careful  attention  to  the  selection  of  ingredients  and 
an  uncompromising  insistence  on  North  Carolina  seafood 
are  the  only  requirements  now  necessary  to  produce  smiles 
at  the  dinner  table. 


North  Carolina  State  Library 
jReteigh 


Selecting    Fish   5 

Fish    6 

Shrimp   10 

Oysters     12 

Clams     16 

Crabs  19 

Scallops    25 

Sauces    28 

Canapes  &  Hors  D'Oeuvres  34 

Soups  &  Chowders  36 

Stuffings    42 


Published  Jointly  by  the 
State  Department  of  Conservation  and  Development 

and  the 

Agricultural  Extension  Service,  North  Carolina  State  College 

Raleigh,  North  Carolina 

September,  1960 


Information  compiled  by  Frank  B.  Thomas,  Food  Processing 
Specialist,  Agricultural  Extension  Service,  N.  C.  State  College 


\  J^^.^^^^< 


^e€acttu^  -Fil^ 


Fish  is  marketed  in  various  forms  for  different  uses.  Knowing 
these  forms  or  "cuts"  is  important  in  buying  fish.  The  best 
known  forms  of  fish  are: 

WHOLE  OR  ROUND  fish  are  those  marketed  just  as  they 
come  from  the  water.  Before  cooking,  they  must  be  scaled  and 
eviscerated  <remove  the  entrails).  The  head,  tail,  and  fins  must 
be  removed  if  desired,  and  the  fish  either  split  or  cut  into  serving- 
size  portions,  except  in  fish  intended  for  baking.  Some  small  fish 
are  frequently  cooked  with  only  the  entrails  removed. 

DRAWN  fish  are  marketed  with  only  the  entrails  removed. 
In  preparation  for  cooking,  they  generally  are  scaled.  Head,  tail, 
and  fins  are  removed,  if  desired,  and  the  fish  split  or  cut  into 
serving-size  portions.  Small  drawn  fish,  or  larger  sizes  intended 
for  baking,  may  be  cooked  in  the  form  purchased  after  being 
scaled. 

DRESSED  fish  are  scaled  and  eviscerated,  usually  with  the 
head,  tail,  and  fins  removed.  The  smaller  sizes  are  ready  for  cook- 
ing as  bought.  The  larger  sizes  of  dressed  fish  may  be  baked  as 
bought  but  frequently  are  cut  into  steaks  or  serving-size  portions. 

STEAKS  are  cross  section  slices  of  the  larger  sizes  of  dressed 
fish.  They  are  ready  to  cook  as  purchased,  except  for  dividing 
the  very  largest  into  serving-size  portions.  A  cross  section  of  the 
backbone  is  usually  the  only  bone  in  the  steak. 

FILLETS  are  the  sides  of  the  fish,  cut  lengthwise  away  from 
the  backbone.  They  are  practically  boneless  and  require  no 
preparation  for  cooking.  Sometimes  the  skin,  with  the  scales 
removed,  is  left  on  the  fillets;  others  are  skinned.  A  fillet  cut 
from  one  side  of  a  fish  is  called  a  single  fillet.  This  is  the  type 
of  fillet  most  generally  seen  in  the  market. 

BUTTERFLY  FILLETS  are  two  sides  of  the  fish  correspond- 
ing to  two  single  fillets  held  together  by  uncut  flesh  and  the  skin. 

STICKS  are  pieces  of  fish  cut  lengthwise  or  crosswise  from 
fillets  or  steaks  into  portions  of  uniform  width  and  length. 


Baked    Fish 


3   or  4   lbs.   fish, 
1  Vj    tsp.    solt 


dressed 


tbsp.   melted   butter   or  other  fat 
slices    bacon    (optional) 


Clean,  wash  and  dry  fish.  Rub  inside  and  out  with  salt.  Place 
fish  in  greased  baking  pan.  Brush  with  melted  fat  and  lay  slices  of 
bacon  over  the  top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  40  to  60  minutes 
or  until  fish  flakes  easily  when  tested  with  a  fork.  If  fish  seems 
dry  while  baking,  baste  occasionally  with  drippings  or  melted  fat. 

Baked   Stuffed    Fish 


tbsp.   melted   butter  or   other   fat 
slices   bacon   (optional) 


3  or  4  lbs.  fish,  dressed 
1  Vi    tsp.    salt 
Bread   stuffing 

Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  fish.  Sprinkle  inside  and  out  with 
salt.  Stuff  fish  loosely,  and  sew  the  opening  with  needle  and 
string,  or  close  with  skewers. 

Place  fish  in  greased  baking  pan.  Brush  with  melted  fat.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  40  to  60  minutes  or  until  fish  flakes  easily 
when  tested  with  a  fork.  If  fish  seems  dry  during  baking,  baste 
occasionally  with  drippings  or  melted  fat.  Remove  string  or 
skewers  and  serve  hot.  Serves  6. 

Planked    Fish 


3  or  4   lbs.   fish,  dressed 
1  Vi    tsp.   salt 

Dash    pepper 

4  tbsp.   butter   or  other   fat 

If  hardwood  plank  is 
and  heat  thoroughly  as 

Clean,  wash  and  dry 
and  pepper.  Brush  with 


Seosoned    mashed    potatoes 
Seosoned    cooked     vegetables     (peas, 

carrots,    cauliflower,    tomatoes,    or 

onions) 

used,  oil  well  and  place  in  a  cold  oven 
oven  preheats. 

fish.  Sprinkle  inside  and  out  with  salt 
melted  fat.  Place  fish  on  the  hot  oiled 


plank  or  on  a  greased  oven  glass  or  metal  platter.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  35  to  45  minutes  or  until  fish  flakes  easily 
when  tested  with  a  fork. 

Remove  from  oven  and  quickly  ai-range  a  border  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes  around  fish.  Place  in  a  preheated  broiler  until  potatoes 
are  slightly  browned,  about  5  minutes.  Remove  and  arrange  two 
or  more  hot  vegetables  around  fish.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
lemon  or  tomato  wedges.  Serve  immediately  on  the  plank. 
Serves  6. 

Baked    Fillets   or   Steaks 

2    lbs.   fish    fillets   or   steaks  1    tsp.    grated    onion 

1  tsp.    salt  4    tbsp.  melted  butter 
Dash   pepper  Paprika 

2  tbsp.    lemon    juice 

Cut  fish  into  serving-size  portions.  Sprinkle  both  sides  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  onion  to  the  melted 
fat.  Dip  each  piece  of  fish  into  this  mixture  and  place  in  a  greased 
baking  pan.  Pour  the  rest  of  the  fat  over  the  fish.  Bake  in 
moderate  ov£n  for  25  to  30  minutes  or  until  fish  flakes  easily 
when  tested  with  a  fork.  Sprinkle  with  paprika.  Serves  6. 


Frozen    Fish    Fillets 


1       pkg.  thawed   fish   fillets 
Vl    cup   bread   crumbs 
Va    tsp.  salt 


3       tbsp.   melted  butter 

3       tbsp.  milk 

Dash    papriko    ond    morjoron 


Separate  and  dry  fillets  on  paper  towels.  Combine  crumbs, 
seasoning  and  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Dip  fillets  in  milk, 
then  in  buttered  crumbs.  Place  in  well-greased  shallow  baking 
dish.  Pour  rest  of  butter  over  fillets  and  bake  10  to  15  minutes 
in  hot  oven  (450-500°  F.)  Serves  4. 


"~^ 


Baked   Mullet  with   Cheese   Sauce 


1 

chopped   onion 

1 

cup    milk 

1 

2'/j.|b.    mullet 

1 

7-oz.    pkg.    spreading    cheese. 

sliced 

I'/J 

tsp.    Worcestershire   souce 

1 

tsp.   dry   mustard 

1 

tsp.    salt 

V2 

tsp.  pepper 

Place  onion  and  half  the  cheese  in  cavity  of  fish.  Place  remain- 
ing cheese  on  top  of  fish.  Add  remaining  ingredients  to  milk  and 
pour  over  fish.  Bake  in  hot  oven  (400°  F.)  for  25  to  30  minutes. 
Serves  4. 


Baked   or   Broiled   Mullet   with   Creamed    Roe 

Mullet  and   roe  2      tbsp.   flour 

Boiling    water  '/z    cup  cream 

3       tbsp.  dry   white   wine  or  lemon   juice    2       egg    yolks 

Va    tsp.   salt  Salt,   pepper 

2      tbsp.  butter  Buttered   cornflakes  or  bread    crumbs 

1       tbsp.   finely  chopped  onion  Lemon  slice,   parsley,  etc.   for   garnishing 

Cover  mullet  roe  with  boiling  water.  Add  dry  white  wine  or 
lemon  juice  and  14  teaspoon  salt.  Simmer  for  15  minutes.  Drain. 
Remove  outside  membrane  from  fish  roe. 

Mash  the  roe.  Melt  butter  in  saucepan  and  add  onion.  Saute 
for  5  minutes.  Add  the  roe  and  stir  in  flour  and  cream.  When 
these  ingredients  are  hot  and  well  blended  remove  from  fire. 
Stir  in  egg  yolks.  Season  the  roe  well  with  salt,  pepper,  dry 
white  wine  or  lemon  juice.  Keep  hot. 

Bone  a  3-  or  4-pound  mullet.  Place  it  skin  side  down  on  well 
greased  broiler  rack,  flat  pan  or  plank.  Season  the  fish  with  salt, 
freshly  ground  pepper.  Brush  with  melted  butter.  Broil  gently 
about  15  minutes. 

Remove  fish  from  the  oven  and  spread  thin  part  with  creamed 
roe.  Cover  with  buttered  cornflakes  or  bread  crumbs.  Return  it 
to  the  broiler  to  brown  evenly.  Serve  garnished  with  lemon  slice, 
parsley  or  watercress,  pickled  beets,  cucumber,  etc. 

Baked   Mullet  With   Tomato   Sauce 


1      3-lb.  mullet 

1       tbsp.   Worcestershire   sauce 

Salt  and  pepper 

1       tbsp.  catsup 

Flour 

1       tsp.   chili   powder 

6      tbsp.   melted   butter 

Vi    lemon,  finely  sliced 

I/^    cup   chopped   onion 

2      bay  leaves 

2      cups   chopped  celery 

1       clove    minced    garlic 

Va    cup  chopped   green    pepper 

1       tsp.   solt 

3      cups  canned  tomatoes 

Dash    red   pepper 

Dredge  mullet  inside  and  out  with  flour,  salt,  and  pepper.  Place 
in  a  baking  pan  with  melted  butter.  Simmer  chopped  onion,  chop- 
ped celery  and  chopped  green  pepper  for  15  minutes.  Add  toma- 
toes, Worcestershire  sauce,  catsup,  chili  powder,  lemon,  bay 
leaves,  garlic,  salt  and  red  pepper.  Simmer  until  celery  is  very 
tender.  Press  these  ingredients  through  a  potato  ricer.  Pour  the 
sauce  around  the  fish.  Bake  the  fish  in  a  moderate  oven  (350° 
F.)  for  about  45  minutes.  Baste  frequently  with  sauce. 

Fried    Fish 

2    lbs.   fillets,  steaks  or  pan-dressed  1  egg 

fish  1  tbsp.   milk   or   water 

1    tsp.   salt  1  cup   bread  crumbs   cracker   crumbs, 
Dash   pepper  cornmeal  or  flour 

Cut  fish  into  serving-size  portions.  Sprinkle  both  sides  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Beat  egg  slightly  and  blend  in  the  milk  or  water. 
Dip  fish  in  the  egg  and  roll  in  crumbs. 

8 


Place  fish  in  a  heavy  frying  pan  which  contains  about  Vb  '"ch 
melted  fat,  hot  but  not  smoking.  Fry  at  a  moderate  heat.  When 
fish  is  brown  on  one  side,  turn  carefully  and  brown  the  other  side. 
Cooking  time  is  about  10  minutes  depending  on  thickness  of 
the  fish.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serves  6. 


2    lbs.    kingfish,    sliced 

Milk 

Flour   or   cornmeol 


Sauteed    King    Mackerel 

Cooking  oil  or  (of 
Salt  and  pepper 
Lemon 


Dip  slices  of  fish  in  salted  milk.  Roll  in  seasoned  flour  or  corn- 
meal.  Heat  a  liberal  amount  of  oil  or  fat  in  heavy  skillet.  Brown 
the  steaks  on  one  side ;  turn,  brown  on  the  other  side.  Serve  with 
a  quarter  of  lemon.  Serves  6. 

Smoked    Fish 

6       lbs.    dressed    mullet   or    other    fish  1       gal.  water 

(1    lb.   each)  ^4    cup  peanut  or  salod  oil 

1       cup  salt 

Remove  the  head  just  below  the  collarbone.  Cut  along  the  back- 
bone almost  to  the  tail.  The  fish  should  lie  flat  in  one  piece.  Wash 
fish  thoroughly,  particularly  the  body  cavity.  Combine  salt  and 
water.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Soak  fish  in  brine  for  30  minutes. 

To  smoke  fish,  use  a  charcoal  fire  in  a  portable  barbecue  with 
hood  or  lid  that  closes  to  make  a  smoker.  Soak  1  pound  of  hickory 
chips  or  sawdust  in  2  quarts  water.  Let  charcoal  fire  burn  down 
to  a  low,  even  heat.  Place  i  ij  of  the  wet  chips  on  the  charcoal. 

Rinse  fish  in  cold  water.  Place  fish,  skin  down,  on  well-greased 
barbecue  grill  over  the  smoking  fire.  Place  cover  over  grill. 
Smoke  for  1^  :>  hours,  adding  remaining  wet  chips  or  sawdust  at 
15  minute  intervals  to  keep  the  fire  smoking. 

Increase  the  temperature  by  adding  more  charcoal  to  the  fire 
and  opening  the  draft.  Brush  fish  sparingly  with  oil.  Cover  and 
cook  for  15  minutes.  Brush  again  with  oil  and  continue  cooking 
for  10  minutes  or  until  fish  i-<  lightly  browned.  Serves  6. 


Shad    De   Luxe 


1  onion 

1  shod 

3  cups    woter 

Salt 

6  peppercorns 

1  small  stick  cinnamon 

2  lemons,    sliced 


1  tbsp,    sugar 

1  large    apple,    sliced 
12  almonds,  chopped 
V4  cup   raisins 

2  eggs,    beaten 

1  tbsp.   cornstarch 


Cook  onion  in  water  5  minutes.  Add  shad,  seasoned  with  salt, 
peppercorns,  and  cinnamon.  Cook  10  minutes.  Add  sliced  lemons 
with  seeds  removed,  sugar,  apple,  almonds  and  raisins.  Cook 
until  fish  is  done,  or  about  10  minutes.  Remove  fish.  Thicken 
stock  by  adding  eggs  and  1  tbsp.  cornstarch,  mixed  with  a  little 
water:  cook  1  minute.  Pour  sauce  over  fish.  Serves  6. 


9 


^^tiAi>vuQ 


Shrimp   Creole 


1  tsp.   chili    powder 

Dash    pepper 

1  tsp.   salt 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes 
Rice   ring 


1  Yi  lbs.   shrimp,   fresh    or    frozen 

Va  cup   chopped   onion 

Vi  cup  chopped  green  pepper 

1  clove   garlic,   finely    chopped 

Va  cup   butter  or  other  fot,   melted 

3  tbsp.   flour 

Peel  shrimp,  remove  sand  veins  and  wash.  Cut  large  shrimp 
in  half.  Cook  onion,  green  pepper  and  garlic  in  butter  until 
tender.  Blend  in  flour  and  seasonings.  Add  tomatoes  and  cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  shrimp  and  simmer  uncover- 
ed about  20  minutes.  Serve  in  a  rice  ring.  Serves  6. 

Shrimp   in   Tomato   Aspic 


2      tsp.    horseradish 

1       tsp.   salt 

Dash    pepper 

Lettuce 

Mayonnaise  or  salad  dressing 


%  lb.   cooked    shrimp 

2  tbsp.   gelatin 

2  cups   tomato    juice 

1  tbsp.  lemon   juice 

1  tsp.   grated   onion 

2  tbsp.  chopped  pickles 

Cut  large  shrimp  in  half.  Soften  gelatin  in  '2  cup  of  cold 
tomato  juice  for  5  minutes.  Scald  remaining  tomato  .juice;  add 
gelatin  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  next  6  ingredients  and 
shrimp.  Pour  in  mold.  Chill  until  firm.  Unmold  on  lettuce; 
garnish  with  mayonnaise.  Serves  6. 


Spiced   Shrimp 


1  V2  tsp.   whole  block  peppers 
%  tsp.    whole   cloves 

2  qts.   boiling    water 
1  cup    vinegar 

V4  cup  salt 


1  '/l  lbs.   shrimp,   fresh  or  froien 

1  bunch    celery   tops 

1  bunch    parsley 

1  '/a  tsp.    crushed    boy    leaves 

1  Vi  tsp.    allspice    (whole) 

1  Vi  tsp.   whole  red   peppers 

Wash  shrimp  but  do  not  remove  shells.  Tie  the  celery,  parsley, 
and  spices  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth.  To  the  water  add  vinegar, 
salt  and  bag  of  seasonings.  Cover  and  simmer  45  minutes.  Add 
shrimp,  cover,  and  return  to  boiling  point;  simmer  5  minutes. 
Drain,  peel,  and  remove  sand  veins  from  shrimp.  Serve  with  a 
cocktail  sauce.  Serves  6. 


10 


French-Fried   Shrimp 


l'/2 

lbs.    shrimp,    fresh    or   frozen 

'/2 

cup    flour 

2 

eggs,   beaten 

Vi 

cup  dry   bread   crumbs 

1 

tsp.  salt 

Peel  shrimp,  leaving  last  section  of  shell  on  if  desired.  Cut 
almost  through  lengthwise  and  remove  sand  veins.  Wash.  Com- 
bine egg  and  salt.  Dip  each  shrimp  in  egg,  then  roll  in  flour-and- 
crumb  mixture.  Fry  in  a  basket  in  deep  fat,  350°  F..  for  2  to  3 
minutes  or  until  golden  brow^n.  Serves  6. 

Shrimp  Gumbo 

1  cup   shortening  5    cups  water 

5  tbsp.   flour  4    lbs.   cooked   shrimp 

1  large  onion,  sliced  Salt,  parsley,  and  bay  leaves 

1  clove  garlic  Tabasco  sauce 

1  lb.  okra,  chopped 

Heat  shortening.  Stir  in  flour.  When  brown,  add  onions,  okra 
and  garlic.  Cook  until  soft.  Add  the  shrimp  and  water.  Let  simmer 
slowly  for  45  minutes.  Add  seasonings.  Before  serving,  add  dash 
of  tabasco  sauce. 

Shrimp  Jambalaya 

Va  lb.  cooked  shrimp  1       tsp.    salt 

Va  cup  chopped   bocon  Dash    cayenne    pepper 

3  tbsp.  chopped   onion  Dash  paprika 

3  tbsp.   chopped   green   pepper  Vi    tsp.   Worcestershire  sauce 

1  clove  garlic,   finely   chopped  2      cups    conned    tomatoes 

1  tbsp.    flour  2      cups  cooked  rice 

Cut  large  shrimp  in  half.  Fry  bacon  until  crisp.  Add  onion, 
green  pepper,  and  garlic;  cook  until  tender.  Blend  in  flour  and 
seasonings;  add  tomatoes  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Stir  in  rice  and  shrimp;  heat.  Serves  6. 

Shrimp   Bisque 

Va    lb.  cooked  shrimp  1       tsp.    salt 

2  tbsp.   chopped    onion  '/4    tsp.    poprika 
2      tbsp.   chopped  celery                                  Dash  pepper 

Va    cup  butter  or  other  fat,  melted  1       qt.  mitk 

2  tbsp.  flour  Porsley 

Grind  shrimp.  Cook  onion  and  celery  in  butter  until  tender. 
Blend  in  flour  and  seasonings.  Add  milk  graduallj^  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  shrimp,  heat.  Garnish  with  chop- 
ped parsley  sprinkled  over  top.  Serves  6. 

Curried   Shrimp 

Va  lb.    cooked    shrimp  Dash   pepper 

Va  cup   chopped   onion  1       tsp.  curry  powder 

3  tbsp.  butter,  or  other  fat,  melted  Va    tsp.   powdered  ginger 
3  tbsp.  flour  2      cups  milk 

1       tsp.  salt  Rice  ring 

Cut  large  shrimp  in  half.  Cook  onion  in  butter  until  tender. 
Blend  flour  and  seasonings.  Add  milk  gradually  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  shrimp ;  heat.  Serve  in  rice  ring. 
Serves  6. 

11 


Oysters   Au   Gratin 


1  pf.   oysters 

6  slices   buttered   toast 

2  eggs,   beaten 
1  tsp.  salt 


1  tsp.   prepared  mustard 

Vi  tsp.    paprika 

Vj  cup   milk 

1  cup  grated  cheese 


Trim  crusts  from  bread.  Cut  each  slice  into  quarters.  Combine 
beaten  eggs,  seasonings,  and  milk.  Arrange  layer  of  bread  in 
buttered  casserole,  cover  with  layer  of  oysters.  Sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese.  Repeat  layer,  pour  milk  mixture  over  contents 
of  dish,  and  cover  with  grated  cheese.  Place  casserole  in  pan  of 
hot  water,  bake  in  moderate  oven  350°  F.  for  30  minutes  or  until 
brown.  Serves  6. 


Scalloped   Oysters 


1  pt.  oysters 

2  cups  cracker  crumbs 
Vi  tsp.  so  It 

Va  tsp.  pepper 


Yi    cup   butter,   melted 

Vi    tsp.  Worcestershire   souce 

1       cup  milk 


Drain  oysters.  Combine  cracker  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  but- 
ter; sprinkle  Vs  in  a  buttered  casserole,  cover  with  a  layer  of 
oysters.  Repeat  layer.  Add  Worcestershire  sauce  to  milk,  and 
pour  over  contents  of  dish.  Sprinkle  remaining  crumbs  over  top. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  350°  F.  for  30  minutes  or  until  brown. 
Serves  6. 


36   shell   oysters 


Roasted   Oysters   in   the   Shell 

6      tbsp.    melted    butter 


Clean  oysters  thoroughly.  Place  on  baking  sheet,  and  roast 
in  hot  oven,  450°  F.,  for  about  15  minutes  or  until  shells  becin 
to  open.  Serve  in  shell  with  melted  butter.  Serves  6. 


12 


Oyster   Cocktail 


1  Vi    pts.   oysters 
Lettuce 


Cocktail    sauce 
Lemon   wedges 


Drain  and  dry  oysters.  Allow  6  oysters  for  each  serving  and  ar- 
range in  lettuce  cups  on  individual  salad  plates.  Place  a  small 
container  of  cocktail  sauce  in  the  center  of  each  plate.  Garnish 
with  lemon.  Serves  6. 


Oyster   Noodle   Casserole 


1 

pt.  oysters 

2 

tbsp.  green   pepper. 

minced 

3 

tbsp.  butter 

V2 

tsp.    salt 

3 

tbsp.    flour 

Ve 

tsp.  pepper 

I'/a 

cups    milk 

'/i 

cup  bread  crumbs 

IVi 

cups  cooked  noodles 

2 

tbsp.   butter 

Drain  oysters.  Melt  butter  in  top  of  double  boiler,  blend  in  flour, 
add  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Place  layer  of 
noodles  in  buttered  casserole,  cover  with  layer  of  oysters,  and 
sprinkle  with  green  pepper,  salt  and  pepper.  Repeat  layer,  pour 
sauce  over  contents  of  dish  and  cover  with  buttered  crumbs. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  350°  F.  for  30  minutes  or  until  brown. 
Serves  6. 


1  pt.  oysters 
Vl  cup  butter 
Vi    cup    flour 


Creamed   Oysters 

3      cups  milk 
1      tsp.  solt 
Va    tsp.  pepper 


Simmer  oysters  in  their  liquor  about  5  minutes  or  until  edges 
begin  to  curl.  Drain.  Melt  butter  in  top  of  double-boiler,  blend 
in  hour,  add  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
oysters,  seasonings,  and  heat.  Serve  in  patty  shells  or  on  toast. 
Serves  6. 


13 


Fried   Oysters 

1  qf.  select  oysters  Va    tsp.    pepper 

2  eggs,   broken  1       cup  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  crumbs 
2      tbsp.    milk  or   corn    meal 

1       tsp.  salt 

Drain  oysters.  Mix  eggs,  milk,  and  seasonings.  Dip  oysters  in 
egg  mixture  and  roll  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat ;  when  brown  on 
one  side  turn  and  brown  other  side.  Cooking  time  about  5  min- 
utes. Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serve  immediately  with  slices 
of  lemon  or  tartar  sauce.  Serves  6. 


Oyster   a   La    King 


1  pt.   oysters 

Ya  cup  celery,  diced 

Ya  cup  green   pepper,  diced 

4  tbsp.   butter 

5  tbsp.    flour 


2  cups   milk 

1  egg,  beaten 

1  tbsp.  pimiento,  chopped 

1  tsp.  salt 

Yb  tsp.    pepper 


Simmer  oysters  in  their  liquor  for  about  5  minutes  or  until 
edges  begin  to  curl.  Drain.  Cook  celery  and  green  pepper  in 
butter  until  tender.  Blend  in  flour,  add  milk,  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Into  beaten  egg,  stir  a  little  of  the  hot  sauce, 
then  add  egg  mixture  to  sauce,  stirring  constantly.  Add  oysters, 
seasonings,  and  heat  thoroughly.  Serve  in  patty  shells  or  on  but- 
tered toast.  Serves  6. 


Deviled   Oysters 


36  Shell   oysters 

2  tbsp.  onion,  minced 

2  tbsp.    butter 

4  tbsp.  flour 

1  Yi  cups    milk 

1  tsp.  salt 

Ya  tsp.  nutmeg 


ew   grains  cayenne 

tsp.  prepared  mustard 
tbsp.    Worcestershire    sauce 
tsp.    parsley,   chopped 
egg,    beaten 

Yi      cup    bread    crumbs 

2        tbsp.   butter 


Shuck  and  chop  oysters.  Cook  onion  in  butter  until  tender. 
Blend  in  flour,  add  milk,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  seasonings,  beaten  egg,  and  oysters,  and  heat.  Fill  deep 
halves  of  oyster  shells  with  cream  mixture,  cover  with  buttered 
crumbs.  Bake  in  hot  oven,  400°  F.,  for  10  minutes,  or  until 
brown.  Serves.  6 


14 


Oyster   Fritters 


1  pt.   oysters 

2  cups   sifted   flour 
1  tbsp.    baking    powder 


eggs,   beaten 

cup    milk 

tbsp.  fat,  melted 


1  '/j    tsp.    solt 

Drain  oysters  and  chop.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Com- 
bine beaten  eggs,  milk  and  fat.  Pour  these  into  dry  ingredients 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  oysters.  Drop  batter  by  teaspoonfuls 
into  fat  heated  to  350"  F.  and  fry  about  3  minutes  or  until 
golden  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serves  6. 


Oyster    Rockefeller 


36  shell   oysters 

2  cups  spinoch,  cooked 

4  tbsp.    onion 

2  bay   leaves 

1  tbsp.    parsley 


Vi  tsp.  celery  salt 

'/j  tsp.   salt 

6  drops  tabasco  souce 

Vz  cup   bread   crumbs 

6  tbsp.   butter 


Shuck  and  drain  oysters;  place  on  deep  half  of  shells.  Put 
spinach,  ofiion,  bay  leaves,  and  parsley  through  food  grinder. 
Add  seasonings  to  spinach,  and  cook  in  butter  for  5  minutes. 
Spread  mixture  over  oysters,  and  bake  in  hot  oven,  400°  F.,  for 
about  10  minutes.  Garnish  with  lemon  slices.  Serves  6. 


Broiled   Oysters   on   the    Holf   Shell 

36    shell    oysters  </2    cup  bread  crumbs 

'/2    tsp.  salt  2      tbsp.  butter 

Va    tsp.  pepper 

Shuck  and  drain  oysters;  place  on  deep  half  of  shell.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Place  on  preheated 
broiler  pan  about  3  inches  from  heat,  and  broil  for  5  minutes  or 
until  brown.  Serves  6. 


36   shell  oysters 


Steamed   Oysters   in   the   Shell 

6      tbsp.    melted    butter 


Clean  oysters  thoroughly.  Place  in  pressure  cooker,  and  steam 
for  2  minutes  at  15  pounds  pressure.  Cool  cooker  at  once.  Serve 
in  shells  with  melted  butter.  Serves  6. 


15 


Fried   Clams 

1  qt.  clams  Dash  pepper 

1  egg,   beaten  1    cup  dry   bread   crumbs  or   Crocker 

1  tbsp.  milk  crumbs 

1  »sp.  salt 

Drain  clams.  Combine  egg,  milk,  and  seasonings.  Dip  clams  in 
egg  mixture  and  roll  in  crumbs.  Place  clams  in  a  heavy  frying  pan 
in  about  one-eighth  inch  of  fat.  Pan  should  be  hot  but  not  smok- 
ing. Fry  at  moderate  heat.  When  clams  are  brown  on  one  side, 
turn  carefully  and  brown  the  other  side.  Cooking  time  approxi- 
mately is  5  to  8  minutes.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serve  plain 
or  with  a  sauce.  Serves  6. 

Note — A  commercial  breading  may  be  used.  Follow  the  direc- 
tions on  the  package. 


Deep-Fat   Fried  Clams 

1  qt.   clams  Dash  pepper 

1  egg,   beaten  1    cup    dry   bread    crumbs    or   cracker 

1  tbsp.  milk  crumbs 

1  tsp.   salt 

Drain  clams.  Combine  egg,  milk,  and  seasonings.  Dip  clams  in 
egg  mixture  and  roll  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  a  basket  in  deep  fat,  375° 
F.,  for  2  to  3  minutes  or  until  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper. 
Serve  plain  or  with  a  sauce.  Serves  6. 

Note — A  commercial  breading  may  be  used.  Follow  the  direc- 
tions on  the  package. 


6    lbs.    shell    clams 


Roast  Clams 

Butter   or  margarine 


Wash  clams  thoroughly.  Place  in  a  baking  pan.  Roast  in  a  very 
hot  oven,  450°  F.,  for  15  minutes  or  until  clams  open.  Serve  hot 
in  the  shell  with  melted  butter.  Serves  6. 


16 


Steamed   Clams 


6      lbs.    shell    clams    ("steamers") 
Vi    cup  boiling    water 


Butter  or  margarine 


Wash  clams  thoroughly.  Place  in  a  steamer,  add  water,  and 
cover.  Steam  for  5  to  10  minutes  or  until  clams  open.  Serve  hot 
in  the  shell  with  melted  butter.  Serves  6. 

Clams   on   the   Half  Shell 


36   shell   clams   (littlenecks   or   cherry- 
stones) 


Lemon 
Cocktail    Sauce 


Shuck  clams.  Arrange  a  bed  of  crushed  ice  in  6  shallow  bowls 
or  plates.  Place  6  half-shell  clams  on  the  ice  with  a  small  con- 
tainer of  cocktail  sauce  in  center.  Garnish  with  lemon  wedges. 
Serves  6. 


Cocktail   Sauce 


Vl  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
1  tbsp.  horseradish 
3      drops  tabasco   sauce 


V2    tsp.    celery    salt 
'/4    tsp.   salt 


Blend  all  ingredients  and  chill.  Serves  6. 


Clam   Fritters 

1        12-01.   pkg.   of  clams  1       tsp.   baking    powder 

Vi    cup  flour  Dash   of   pepper 

1       egg 

Beat  egg  into  clams.  Mix  baking  powder  into  flour  and  mix  in 
clams.  Put  in  dash  of  pepper  and  diced  onion  if  desired.  Fry  in 
hot  fat.  Makes  10  cakes. 


17 


Clam    Fritters 


1  pt.    clams 

1  %  cups  sifted  flour 

1  tbsp.   baking   powder 

Vi  tsp.   salt 


2  eggs,   beoten 

1  cup   milk 

2  tsp.   grated    onion 

1  tbsp.  butter  or  other  fat,   melted 


Drain  clams  and  chop.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Combine 
egg,  milk,  onion,  butter,  and  clams.  Pour  into  dry  ingredients 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Drop  batter  by  teaspoonfuls  into  hot  fat, 
350°  F.,  and  fry  about  3  minutes  or  until  golden  brown.  Drain  on 
absorbent  paper.  Serves  6. 

Clam   and   Spaghetti   Casserole 


Vi  cup   milk 

1  8*oz.   package   spaghetti 

2  tbsp.   butter  or  other  fat,  melted 
!^  cup  dry  bread  crumbs 


2      7-ounce  cans  minced  clams 
2      tbsp.   butter  or  other   fat 
2      tbsp.    flour 
Dash    pepper 

1        10^4-oz,   can   condensed   mush- 
room   soup 

Melt  butter;  blend  in  flour  and  pepper.  Add  soup,  milk,  and 
clams;  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  spaghetti  as 
directed ;  drain.  Combine  with  sauce.  Place  in  a  well-greased  li/o 
quart  casserole.  Combine  butter  and  crumbs;  sprinkle  over  cas- 
serole. Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  400°  F.,  for  10  minutes  or  until  brown. 
Serves  6. 


18 


Crab  Cakes 


1  ib.   crob   meat 

4  tbsp.   melted  butter 

'/2  tsp.  salt 

Va  tsp.    black    pepper 


Pinch   of    cayenne    pepper 
2      eggs  well  beaten 
Fine    bread    crumbs 
Cooking  fat  or  oil 


Mix  crabmeat,  butter,  seasoning,  and  enough  egg  to  mold  into 
small  cakes.  Beat  1  tbsp.  water  into  the  remaining  egg  and  dip 
the  cakes  into  this  mixture.  Roll  in  crumbs.  Saute  until  rich 
brown  in  a  heavy  frying  pan  or  fry  in  deep  fat  at  380°  F. 
Serve  hot. 


Barbecued   Crab   Sandwiches 


Vi  Ib.  crab  meat  2 

Va  cup   chopped   onion  2 

Vi  cup  chopped  celery  2 

3  tbsp.   butter   or   other   fat,    melted         1 

Va  tsp.   salt  '/i 

Dash    pepper  2 

2  whole  bay  leaves  6 


whole  cloves 

tsp.   soy  sauce 

tsp.    Worcestershire    sauce 

chicken  bouillon  cube 

cup  tomato  juice 

tbsp.  chopped  porsley 

lorge  buttered   rolls 


Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat.  Cook  onion  and 
celery  in  butter  until  tender.  Add  seasonings,  bouillon  cube,  and 
tomato  juice.  Simmer  for  5  minutes.  Remove  bay  leaves  and 
cloves.  Add  parsley  and  crab  meat ;  heat.  Serve  on  rolls.  Serves  6. 


19 


Crab  Meat  Salad 

1  lb.   crab  meat  2      hard-cooked  eggs,  chopped 
V2    cup  mayonnaise  or  salad  dressing         Yi    tsp.  salt 

2  tbsp.  chopped  onion  Dash  pepper 

1  cup  chopped  celery  Lettuce 

2  tbsp.  chopped  sweet  pickle 

Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  Combine  all  ingredients 
except  lettuce.  Chill.  Serve  on  lettuce.  Serves  6. 

Crab   Cocktail 

1    lb.  crob  meot  Parsley 

Lettuce  Lemon    wedges 

Cocktoil    sauce 

Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  Arrange  lettuce  in  6 
cocktail  glasses.  Place  crab  meat  on  top;  cover  vi^ith  cocktail 
sauce.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon  wedges.  Serves  6. 


Cocktail   Sauce 

Va    cup   catsup  Vz      tsp.    salt 

Va    cup  lemon  juice  6      drops  tabasco 

3      tbsp.   chopped  celery  Dash  cayenne  pepper 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  chill.  Serves  6. 


Sea    Ranch   Crab   Bisque 

This  bisque  is  a  speciality  of  the  Sea  Ranch  Hotel  and  Beach 
Club  at  Kitty  Hawk.  Mrs.  Alice  Sykes  contributed  this  recipe. 

V2  lb.  butter  Va  tsp.   mace 

2  tbsp.    flour  Va  tsp.  nutmeg 

2  cups  milk  1  lb.  fresh  back  fin  crab   meat 

1  tsp.  salt  3  cups  thin  coffee  cream 

Va  tsp.  red  pepper 

Melt  butter  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Add  flour  and  blend.  Add 
milk  and  cook,  stirring  until  thickened.  Add  seasonings  and  crab. 
When  ready  to  serve,  add  cream  and  heat.  Place  one  bouillon 
spoon  of  sherry  in  bouillon  cup,  add  bisque,  and  serve. 


20 


Spaghetti   with   Crab  sauce 


1  lb,   crab   meat 

'/l  cup   chopped   onion 

'/2  cup  chopped  celery 

2  cloves  garlic,  finely  chopped 
2  tbsp.  chopped  parsley 

''4  cup    butter    or    other    fat,    inelted 


1       cup   (8    ounces)   tomoto   souce 

','4    tsp.  salt 

Vl    tsp.    paprika 

Dash    pepper 

3      cups  cooked   spaghetti 

Grated  pormeson   cheese 


Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat.  Cook  onion, 
celery,  garlic  and  parsley  in  butter  until  tender.  Add  tomatoes, 
tomato  sauce,  and  seasonings.  Simmer  for  20  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Add  crab  meat ;  heat.  Serve  over  spaghetti.  Garnish 
with  cheese  sprinkled  over  the  top.  Serves  6. 


Crab    Potato   Cakes 

1       lb.    crob   meat  V2    tsp.    sal? 

1       cup  mashed  potatoes  Dash  pepper 

1       egg,  beaten  Dash  onion  3olt 

Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat.  Combine  all 
ingredients.  Shape  into  12  cakes.  Place  cakes  in  a  heavy  frying 
pan  which  contains  about  %  inch  of  fat,  hot  but  not  smoking. 
Fry  at  moderate  heat.  When  cakes  are  brown  on  one  side,  turn 
carefully  and  brown  the  other  side.  Cooking  time  approximately 
5  to  8  minutes.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serves  6. 


Crab  Ravigote 


1  lb.   crab   meat 

2  tbsp.  chopped  sweet  pickle 
2  tbsp.  lemon   juice 

'  4  tsp.  solt 


Dash   pepper 

hard-cooked    egg,   chopped 


1 


1  tbsp.    chopped    parsley 

2  tbsp.   chopped   onion 

'/4    cup  mayonnaise   or   salad   dressing 
2      tbsp.  chopped  stuffed  olives 
Va    tsp.  paprika 
Pimiento   strips 


Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat.  Combine  pickle, 
lemon  juice,  seasonings,  egg,  parsley,  onion,  and  crab  meat. 
Place  in  6  individual  shells  or  on  salad  greens.  Combine  mayon- 
naise, olives,  and  paprika;  spread  over  top  of  crab  mixture. 
Chill.  Garnish  with  pimiento.  Serves  6. 


v_,se_c7 


Crab  Jambalaya 


1  lb.   crab   meat 

Vi  cup  chopped   bacon 

Yi  cup   chopped   onion 

V2  cup  chopped  celery 

Yi  cup  chopped  green  pepper 


1       con    (lib.    13    oz.)   tomatoes 

Va    cup    uncooked    rice 

1       tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Vl    tsp.  salt 

Dash  pepper 


Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat.  Fry  bacon  until 
lightly  brown.  Add  onion,  celery,  and  green  pepper;  cook  until 
tender.  Add  tomatoes,  rice  and  seasonings.  Cover  and  simmer  for 
20  to  25  minutes  or  until  rice  is  tender,  stirring  occasionally.  Add 
crab  meat;  heat.  Serves  6. 

Tomatoes   Stuffed   with   Crab   Meat 


1       lb.    crab    meat 

6      large  tomatoes 

1       tsp.  salt 

Dash   pepper 

3      tbsp.  butter  or  other   fat. 


m  sited 


Va  cup  chopped   parsley 

1  tbsp.   lemon  juice 

Ya  cup  grated   cheese 

Ya  cup  dry  bread  crumbs 


Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat.  Wash  tomatoes. 
Remove  stem  ends  and  centers ;  sprinkle  tomatoes  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Combine  butter,  parsley,  lemon  .iuice,  and  crab  meat. 
Place  in  tomatoes.  Combine  cheese  and  crumbs;  sprinkle  over 
top  of  tomatoes.  Place  in  a  well-greased  baking  dish.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven,  350°  F.,  for  20  to  25  minutes  or  until  toma- 
toes are  tender.  Serves  6. 


Imperial   Crab 


lb.  crab  meat 

tbsp.  chopped  onion 

tbsp.   chopped   green   pepper 

tbsp.   butter  or  other   fat,   melted 

tbsp.  flour 


Yi    cup  milk 

Yi    tsp.    salt 

Dash  pepper 

Va    tsp.   Worcestershire   sauce 

2      hard-cooked  eggs,   chopped 


Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  Cook  onion  and  green 
pepper  in  butter  until  tender.  Blend  in  flour.  Add  milk  gradually 
and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  seasonings,  egg, 
and  crab  meat.  Place  in  well-greased,  individual  shells  of  5-ounce 
custard  cups.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  350'  F.,  for  20  to  25 
minutes  or  until  brown.  Serves  6. 


22 


Deviled   Crab 


1  lb.  crab  meat 

2  tbsp.  chopped  onion 

3  tbsp.    butter   or   other   fat,   melted 
2  tbsp.   flour 

Va  cup  milk 

'/i  tsp.  salt 
Dash   pepper 

V2  tsp.   powdered   mustard 


1  tsp.   Worcestershire   lauee 

Vi  tsp.    sage 

Dash  cayenne  pepper 

1  tbsp.    lemon    juice 

1  egg,   beaten 

1  tbsp.   chopped  parsley 

1  tbsp.  butter  or  other  fat,  melted 

Va  cup  dry  bread  crumbs 


Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat.  Cook  onion  in 
butter  until  tender.  Blend  in  flour.  Add  milk  gradually  and  cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  seasonings  and  lemon  juice. 
Stir  a  little  of  the  hot  sauce  into  egg;  add  to  remaining  sauce, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  parsley  and  crab  meat.  Place  in  6  well- 
greased,  individual  shells  or  5-ounce  custard  cups.  Combine  butter 
and  crumbs ;  sprinkle  over  top  of  each  shell.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven,  350°  F.,  for  15  to  20  minutes  or  until  brown.  Serves  6. 

Baked   Crab   meat   in   Shells 


1 

lb.   crab   meat 

Vi    cup  tomato  sauce 

14 

cup  chopped  onion 

Vi    tsp.   salt 

Va 

cup  butter  or  other  fat. 

melted 

Dash  pepper 

2 

tbsp.  flour 

Va    cup    grated    cheese 

V2 

cup  milk 

Vl    cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat.  Cook  onion  in 
butter  until  tender.  Blend  in  flour.  Add  milk  gradually  and  cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  tomato  sauce,  seasonings, 
and  crab  meat.  Place  in  6  well-greased,  individual  shells  or  5- 
ounce  custard  cups.  Combine  cheese  and  crumbs;  sprinkle  over 
top  of  each  shell.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  350°  F.,  for  20  to  25 
minutes  or  until  brown.  Serves  6. 


Crab    Newburg 


1  lb.  crab  meat 

1/3    cup  butter  or  other  fat 

3        tbsp.   flour 

tsp.   salt 

tsp.  paprika 


Vi 


Dash  cayenne  pepper 

1  Vl    cups  coffee  cream 
3         egg   yolks,   beaten 

2  tbsp.  sherry 
Toast  points 


Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  Melt  butter;  blend  in 
flour  and  seasonings.  Add  cream  gradually  and  cook  until  thick 
and  smooth,  stirring  constantly.  Stir  a  little  of  the  hot  sauce 
into  egg  yolk ;  add  to  remaining  sauce,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
crab  meat;  heat.  Remove  from  heat  and  slowly  stir  in  sherry. 
Serve  immediately  on  toast  points.  Serves  6. 


23 


Fried   Soft-Shell   Blue  Crabs 

12   soft-shell  blue  crabs  2      tsp.  salt 

2      eggs,   beaten  V*   cup  flour 

Vi    cup  milk  Va    cup  dry  bread  crumbs 

Dress  crabs  by  cutting  off  the  face  just  back  of  the  eyes.  Re- 
move the  apron;  remove  the  spongy  parts  (the  gills,  stomach, 
and  intestines)  under  the  points  of  the  body  covering.  Rinse  in 
cold  water;  drain.  Combine  egg,  milk,  and  salt.  Combine  flour 
and  crumbs.  Dip  crabs  in  egg  mixture  and  roll  in  flour-and-crumb 
mixture. 


Pan-Fried 

Place  crabs  in  a  heavy  frying  pan  which  contains  about  Vk 
inch  of  fat,  hot  but  not  smoking.  Fry  at  moderate  heat.  Wheii 
crabs  are  brown  on  one  side,  turn  carefully  and  brown  the  other 
side.  Cooking  time  approximately  8  to  10  minutes.  Drain  on 
absorbent  paper.  Serves  6. 


Deep-Fat  Fried 

Fry  in  a  basket  in  deep  fat,  375°  F.,  for  3  to  4  minutes  or  until 
brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serves  6. 

Note — A  commercial  breading  may  be  used.  Follow  the  direc- 
tions on  the  package. 


24 


&ticMo 


p 


Scallops   and    Rice   Au   Gratin 


1  lb.   scallops,    fresh    or   frozen 

'/2  cup   chopped  green    pepper 

Vi  cup  chopped   celery 

Va  cup   chopped   onion 

V4  cup   buffer  or  ofher  faf,   melted 

Va  cup  flour 


1       fsp.  salt 
Dcsh    pepper 

1  cup   milk 

2  cups  cooked   rice 

1       cup  grofed  cheese 


Thaw  frozen  scallops.  Remove  any  shell  particles  and  wash. 
Chop  scallops.  Cook  green  pepper,  celery,  and  onion  in  butter 
until  tender.  Blend  in  flour  and  seasonings.  Add  milk  gradually 
and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  scallops.  Arrange 
half  of  the  rice,  scallops,  and  cheese  in  alternate  layers  in  a  well- 
greased  lYo-quart  casserole.  Repeat  layers.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven,  350°  F.,  for  30  to  35  minutes  or  until  brown.  Serves  6. 


Scallop  Shepherd's  Pie 


1  lb.  scallops,  fresh  or  frozen 

V2  cup   chopped  onion 

3  fbsp.  buffer  or  other  fat,  melted 

1  '/2  tsp.    cornstarch 

V2  fsp.    salt 


Dash    white   pepper 

1         cup  cooked  peas 

1         cup  cooked  sliced  carrots 

1         cup   mashed    potatoes 

Dash    paprika 


Thaw  frozen  scallops.  Remove  any  shell  particles  and  wash. 
Cut  scallops  into  1  o-inch  pieces.  Cook  onion  and  scallops  in  butter 
for  3  to  4  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Blend  in  cornstarch  and 
seasonings  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  peas 
and  carrots.  Place  in  6  well-greased,  individual  5-ounce  custard 
cups.  Place  a  layer  of  mashed  potatoes  over  top  of  each  pie. 
Sprinkle  with  paprika.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  pven,  450°  F.,  fpr  J5 
to  20  jninutes  or  mtil  brown,  Serves  6, 


25 


Broiled   Scallops 

1  Vi    lbs.  scallops,  fresh  or  frozen  Dash   poprlka 

1/3    cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted  2         tbsp.   chopped  parsley 

Vz      tsp.  salt  Va       cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

Dosh  white  pepper  3         tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Thaw  frozen  scallops.  Remove  any  shell  particles  and  wash. 
Cut  large  scallops  in  half.  Place  on  a  greased  broiler  pan.  Combine 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika.  Brush  scallops  with  seasoned 
butter.  Broil  about  3  inches  from  source  of  heat  for  3  to  4  min- 
utes. Turn  carefully.  Brush  other  side  with  seasoned  butter  and 
broil  3  to  4  minutes  longer.  Sprinkle  with  parsley.  Combine  but- 
ter and  lemon  juice;  serve  with  scallops.  Serves  6. 


Scallop   Kabobs 

1       lb.  scallops,  fresh  or  frozen  1       green  pepper,  cut  into  1-inch  squares 

4      slices  bacon,  cut  into  squares  3      tbsp.  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

1       can  (4  ounces)  button  mushrooms,  '/]    tsp.  salt 

drained  Dash  pepper 

Thaw  frozen  scallops.  Remove  any  shell  particles  and  wash. 
Alternate  scallops,  squares  of  bacon,  mushrooms,  and  green 
pepper  on  6  skewers,  7  inches  each.  Place  on  a  greased  broiler 
pan.  Combine  butter  and  seasonings.  Brush  kabobs  with  seasoned 
butter.  Broil  about  3  inches  from  source  of  heat  for  5  minutes. 
Turn  carefully,  brush  other  side  with  seasoned  butter,  and  broil 
3  to  5  minutes  longer.  Serves  6. 


Scallop  Croquettes 

1  lb.  scallops,  fresh  or  frozen  Dash  pepper 

Va  cup   butter  or   margarine,   melted  2      eggs,  beoten 

Va  cup   flour  2      tbsp.  sherry 

Vi  tsp,  salt  Vi    cup  dry  bread  crumbs 

Thaw  frozen  scallops.  Remove  any  shell  particles  and  wash. 
Chop  scallops.  Cook  scallops  in  butter  for  3  to  4  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Blend  in  flour  and  seasonings.  Stir  a  little  of  the 
hot  sauce  into  egg;  add  to  remaining  sauce,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  cherry.  Place  mixture  in  a  shallow  pan  and  cool.  Divide  into 
12  portions.  Shape  into  cones  and  roll  in  crumbs.  Chill  in  refrigera- 
tor for  several  hours.  Fry  in  a  basket  in  deep  fat,  375°  F.,  for  2 
to  3  minutes  or  until  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serves  6. 

26 


Scallop    Fritters 

1       lb.  scallops,  fresh  or  frozen  Va  cup   milk 

1       cup  pancake  mix  1  egg,    beaten 

1       tsp.   baking   powder  1/3  cup   crushed    pineapple,   drained 

Vi    tsp.    salt  2  tbsp.   butter   or   other  fat,   melted 

Dash  nutmeg 

Thaw  frozen  scallops.  Remove  any  shell  particles  and  wash. 
Grind  scallops.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Combine  milk,  egg, 
pineapple,  and  butter.  Add  gradually  to  the  dry  ingredients; 
stir  only  until  batter  is  smooth.  Add  scallops.  Drop  by  tablespoon- 
fuls  into  deep  fat,  325°  F.  Fry  approximately  4  to  5  minutes  or 
until  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Make  30  fritters.  Serves  6. 

Fried  Scallops 

Deep-Fat  Fried 

Fry  scallops  in  a  basket  in  deep  fat,  350°  F..  fcr  2  to  3  minutes 
or  until  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serves  6. 

Pan-Ffied 

Place  scallops  in  a  heavy  frying  pan  which  contains  about  Vs 
inch  of  fat,  hot  but  not  smoking.  Fry  at  moderate  heat.  When 
scallops  are  brown  on  one  side,  turn  carefully  and  brown  the 
other  side.  Cooking  time  approximately  4  to  6  minutes.  Drain  on 
absorbent  paper.  Serves  6. 

Scallop   Bisque 

1  lb.   scallops,  fresh   or  frozen  1  Va    tsp.  salt 

1         can  (4  ozs.)  mushroom  stems  and  Dash    pepper 

pieces,  drained  '4      cup  flour 

Va      cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted  1  qt.    milk 

Vl      tsp.   powdered    mustard  Poprika 

Thaw  frozen  scallops.  Remove  any  shell  particles  and  wash. 
Grind  scallops  and  mushrooms.  Combine  butter,  mustard,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Cook  scallop  mixture  in  seasoned  butter  for  3  to  4 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally,  blend  in  flour.  Add  milk  gradually 
and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Serve  with  paprika 
sprinkled  over  the  top.  Serves  6. 

Scallop  Salad 


% 

lb.  cooked  scallops 

Vl      cup  French  dressing 

3 

tbsp.   chopped  onion 

Vi      tsp.   salt 

'/z 

cup  chopped  celery 

Dash    pepper 

'/2 

cup  chopped  cucumber 

Lettuce 

1/3 

cup   sliced   radishes 

Tomato  wedges 

Chop  scallops.  Chill.  Combine  remaining  ingredients  except 
lettuce  and  tomatoes.  Serve  on  lettuce;  garnish  with  tomato 
wedges.  Serves  6. 


Spanish  Sauce 


2  large  green  peppers,  chopped 

1  clove  garlic,   chopped 

1  largs   onion,    chopped 

4  tbsp.  bacon  fat 

4  cups  canned  tomotoes 


1  fbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1         tsp.  dry  mustard 

Dash   cayenne 

IVi    tsp.    salt 

1  can  mushrooms  (optional) 


Cook  peppers,  garlic,  and  onion  in  bacon  fat  until  brown.  Add 
tomatoes  and  seasoning.  Cook  slowly  for  about  20  minutes  until 
thick. 

Shrimp   Sauce 


V2    lb.  cooked  shrimp 

2      tbsp.   butter  or  other   fat,   melted 

2      tbsp.    flour 


Va    tsp.  salt 

1       cup   milk 

3      hard-cooked   eggs,   chopped 


Cut  shrimp  into  small  pieces ;  brown  in  butter  3  to  5  minutes. 
Blend  in  flour  and  salt ;  add  milk  gradually  and  cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  egg;  heat.  Serves  6. 


Tartar  Sauce 


1    cup  mayonnaise 

1    tbsp.    mixed    pickles 

1    tbsp.  minced  onion 


1    tbsp.   minced   parsley 
1    tbsp.    mixed  capers 


Mix  ingredients  thoroughly  and  serve  cold.  Serves  6. 
Mushroom  Sauce 


1/3    cup    sliced   onions  1 

2         tbsp.   butter  or  morgorine  Y4 

1  can  condensed  cream-of-mushroom  Vz 

soup,    undiluted 


cup  milk 

tsp.   dried  thyme  (optional) 

tsp.  salt 


In  saucepan,  saute  onions  in  butter  until  tender  and  golden. 
Gradually  stir  in  undiluted  soup,  then  milk,  Add  seasonings ;  heat 
while  stirring.  Makes  about  2  cups. 


28 


Maitre    D'Hotcl    Butter 

'.4    cup  butter  or  margarine  1       tbsp.  minced   parsley 

1      tbsp.  lemon  juice  Vi    fsp.   salt 

Dosh  cayenne   pepper 

To  serve  hot:  Melt  butter;  add  rest  of  ingredients.  Spread 
on  piping-hot  broiled  fish.  Makes  4  servings. 

To  serve  cold:  Work  softened  butter  until  creamy.  Gradually 
.stir  in  lemon  juice,  then  rest  of  ingredients. 

FINE  HERB  BUTTER:  Substitute  3  tablespoons  white  wine 
for  lemon  juice;  stir  in  2  tablespoons  minced  chives  and  1  tea- 
spoon minced  fresh  dill. 


^m 


Lemon  Sauce 

1       tsp.   lemon    juice 

Blend  ingredients  and  serve  hot.  Makes  6  servings. 


3      tbsp.    butter,    melted 
Vz    tsp.   pepper 


4      tbsp.  butter 


Buerre    Noir   (black   butter) 


Vz    cup  vinegar 


Place  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  brown  as  much  as  possible 
without  burning  (if  carried  too  far  this  will  be  bitter).  While 
butter  is  very  hot  quickly  add  the  vinegar. 

This  sauce  should  be  poured  over  the  fish  when  both  are  very 
hut.  It  produces  the  verv  famous  continental  dish  "A  Buerre 
Noir." 


Caper  Sauce 


2         tbsp.   butter 
Va      cup   flour 
Vi      tsp.  salt 
Cayenne   pepper 


1  '/2    cups  hot  meat  stock  or  fish  liquid 

or  boiling  water 
1         tsp.  onion  juice 
Yi      cup  capers 


Melt  butter  and  then  remove  from  heat  and  add  flour.  When 
smooth  add  salt,  pepper,  stock  and  onion  juice.  Stir  until  thick, 
add  capers  and  serve.  Serves  6. 

29 


Tartar  Sauce 


V2    cup    mayonnaise 

1       tbsp.    onion,    minced 

1      tbsp.  pickles,  minced 


tbsp.    parsley,    minced 
tbsp.  olives,  minced 


Mix  throughly  and  chill. 


Cocktail   Sauce 


cup  catsup 
tbsp.    vinegar 
tbsp.    horse-radish 
tbsp.  celery,    minced 


linced 


1       tbsp.  onion, 

'/l    tsp.    salt 

1      tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Few  drops  tabasco  sauce 


Blend  all  ingredients  and  chill. 

Bechamel  Sauce 

1      cup  white  stock  Salt  and  pepper 

1/4    cup   butter  1      cup  scalded  milk 

Vt    cup  flour 

Melt  butter.  Add  flour  and  then  gradually  the  stock  and  milk. 
Season  wiih  salt  and  pepper. 

If  a  yellow  sauce  is  desired,  add  to  the  above  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  slightly  beaten.  First  dilute  the  eggs  with  small  quantity  of 
hot  sauce,  then  add  gradually  the  remaining  sauce  to  prevent 
curdling.  If,  however,  sauce  should  curdle,  you  can  get  the  desired 
smooth  appearance  by  beating  sauce  thoroughly  with  an  egg 
beater. 


Remoulade   Sauce 


hard-cooked  egg  yolks 

tbsp.  Creole  mustard 

tbsp.  tarragon  vinegar 

tbsp.  finely  chopped  green 

onion  tops 

tbsp.  minced  onion 

tbsp.  finely  chopped  parsley 


tbsp.   prepared   horserodish 

tbsp.  chopped  capers  or  sour  pickles 
Va    tsp.   popriko 
Va    tsp.  garlic  salt 

cup  salad  oil 

cup    mayonnaise 


Mash  egg  yolks  and  blend  with  mustard  and  vinegar.  Add  the 
seasonings  one  at  a  time,  mixing  well  after  each  addition.  Add 
the  salad  oil  gradually,  beating  well.  Add  the  mayonnaise  last  and 
beat  until  well  blended. 


30 


Dip 

V2  cup  salad  oil  Vt 

2  tbsp.   tarragon    vinegar  V^ 

1  fsp.   dry  mustard  2 

1  tsp.    prepared    mustard 

Mix  all  ingredients  together;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let 
stand  for  several  hours.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 


tsp.    garlic    salt 

cup   celery,   finely   chopped 

green  onions  (including  tops),  minced 


Clam   Sauce   for   Noodles 


'4  tsp.  paprika 

V4  tsp.  pepper 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten 

1  8-oz.   pockoge  noodles 


2  7-oz.    cans    small   whole    clams 

Vl  cup   butter   or   other  fat 

V2  cup   clam   liquor   and   milk 

1  tbsp.   Worcestershire   sauce 

Drain  clams  and  save  liquor.  Melt  butter;  add  liquor  and 
seasonings.  Heat.  Stir  a  little  of  the  hot  liquid  into  the  egg,  add 
to  remaining  liquid,  stirring  constantly.  Add  clams;  heat.  Cook 
noodles  as  directed  on  package.  Serve  clam  sauce  in  a  bowl  sur- 
rounded by  noodles.  Serves  6. 


Chili-Mustard   Sauce 

Speck    pepper 

1       tsp.   Whorcestershire 

1  tsp.    prepared    mustard 

2  tbsp.    chili  sauce 

Combine  butter,  onion,  and  garlic  in  saucepan  over  low  heat. 
Cook  until  onion  is  tender,  about  10  minutes,  stirring  frequently 
to  prevent  browning.  Add  salt  and  rest  of  ingredients;  mix  welf; 
heat.  Serves  4. 


'/4 

cup  butter,  margarine. 

or  salad  oil 

'/4 

cup    minced    onion 

1 

minced  clove  garlic 

Vi 

tsp.  salt 

Tomato   Sauce 


2      cups   canned   tomotoes 
2      tbsp.  butter 
2      tbsp.  flour 


1       tsp.    Worcestershire   sauce 
Vi    tsp.  salt 
Va    tsp.    pepper 


Cook  tomatoes  10  minutes  and  strain.  Melt  butter,  stir  in  flour, 
and  add  hot  tomato  juice  and  seasoning.  Cook  until  it  thickens. 
Serves  6. 


31 


Spicy  Dunk  Sauce 


'/l 

cup    chili    sauce 

'/b 

tsp.    pepper 

V* 

cup  well-drained  bottled 

horse- 

1 

tbsp.    vinegar 

radish 

2 

dashes  tabasco 

1 

tsp.    Worcestershire 

1/4 

tsp.  bottled  meat  sauce 

1 

tsp.  minced  onion 

1 

tsp.    celery  seeds 

'/4 

tsp.  garlic  salt 

2 

tbsp.   gronuloted    sugar 

Vi 

tsp.    salt 

1 

tsp.  celery  salt 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Keep  in  covered  jar  in  refrigerator 
2  or  3  days  before  using,  to  blend  flavors  thoroughly.  Makes 
about  %  cup. 


Sauce    for   Shrimp,    Lobster,   Crab   Meat 


pt.  mayonnaise 
Vi    cup    India   relish 
tsp.   chopped   olives 
pimiento,  chopped 
tbsp.   prepared  mustard 
tbsp.    A-1    sauce 

Mix  well,  chill  and  serve. 


1       pt.   chili   sauce 

1  chopped  boiled  egg 

Vi    green    pepper,    chopped 

2  tbsp.   celery,   chopped 
Sclt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Dash   paprika 


Cucumber   Sauce 


1       cup    whipping   cream 

Vl    tsp.   salt 

Vi    tsp.   cayenne 


Vi    tsp.  onion   juice 

2      tbsp.  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 

1       cucumber,  chopped 


Beat  cream  until  thick  and  add  salt  and  cayenne.  Add  gradually 
the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Fold  in  cucumber  and  onion  juice. 
Serve  very  cold.  Serves  6. 

Creole  Sauce 


1  Vi  cups    canned    tomatoes  1 

1  thinly  sliced,  seeded  green  pepper  1 

1  thinly   sliced    medium    onion  1 

Vi  cup  thinly  sliced  mushrooms  1 


tbsp.   butter  or  margorine 

tbsp.   flour 

beef  bouillon  cube 

cup  hot  water 


Simmer  tomatoes  and  next  3  ingredients  about  10  minutes.  In 
separate  saucepan,  melt  butter;  gradually  add  flour.  Cook,  stir- 
ring over  low  heat  until  well  blended.  Dissolve  bouillon  cube  in 
water;  stir  into  blended  flour.  When  this  is  thoroughly  mixed, 
add  to  tomato  mixture.  Cook  2  minutes.  Makes  about  2  cups 
.sauce. 


32 


Hollandaise   Sauce 


V2    cup  butter 

3      egg    yolks    (beaten) 

2      tbsp.  lemon  juice 


Vl    tsp.  salt 

V4    tsp.    pepper 

V^    cup  boiling  water 


Cream  the  butter,  and  add  egg  yolks;  beat  thoroughly.  Add 
lemon  juice,  salt,  pepper,  and  boiling  water.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
until  thick  as  custard.  Serve  at  once.  Makes  6  servings. 


Curry   Sauce 

To  butter,  add  2  teaspoons  curry,  •'/j.  teaspoon  sugar,  Vs  tea- 
spoon ginger,  and  14  cup  minced  onion.  Before  serving  sauce,  add 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 


Anchovy   Sauce 


celery.  Heat.  Makes  1^2  cups. 


Cream   Sauce 


2      tbsp.    butter  or   margarine  Dcsh   popriko 

2      tbsp.   flour  1       cup    milk,   cr    port   milk    and    port 

Speck    pepper  thin    cream 

Vi    tsp.  salt 

Melt  butter  in  double-boiler  top  over  boiling  water:  add  flour, 
pepper,  salt,  and  paprika,  stirring  until  blended  and  smooth.  Add 
milk  slowly,  stirring  constantly  to  avoid  lumps.  Cook,  stirring 
until  smooth  and  thickened.  Makes  1  cup. 


Cocktail   Sauce 


6    tbsp.   tomoto   catsup 
2   tbsp.    horseradish 


4    tbsp.    lemon    juice 

Celery  salt  and  tabasco  sauce  to  taste 


Shake  the  ingredients  in  a  jar  or  wide-mouthed  bottle  until 
well  mixed. 


33 


CkMxL 


Broiled   Clam   Canapes 


1  7-oz.  can  minced  cloms 

1  3-oz.  pkg.  chive  cream  cheese 

V2  tsp.    salt 

1  tbsp.    lemon    juice 


3      drops  tobasco  sauce 
1       egg  white 
Crackers   or  toast 
Paprika 


Drain  clams.  Soften  cheese  at  room  temperature.  Combine 
cheese,  seasonings,  and  clams.  Fold  into  stiffly  beaten  egg  white. 
Spread  on  crackers  or  toast.  Sprinkle  with  paprika.  Place  on 
broiler  pan  about  3  inches  from  source  of  heat.  Broil  2  to  3 
minutes  or  until  brown.  Serve  at  once.  Makes  36  canapes. 


Crab   Canapes 


1       pound  crab  meat 

3      tbsp.  mayonnaise  or  salad  dressing 

1       tbsp.   prepared  mustard 

V4    tsp.  salt 

Dash  pepper 


1  tbsp.    lemon    juice 
12   slices   white  bread 

V4    cup   grated    Pormeson    cheese 

2  tbsp.  dry  bread  crumbs 


Remove  any  shell  or  cartilage  from  crab  meat.  Combine  mayon- 
naise, seasonings,  lemon  juice,  and  crab  meat.  Remove  crusts  and 
toast  bi-ead.  Spread  crab  mixture  on  each  slice  of  toast.  Combine 
cheese  and  crumbs ;  sprinkle  over  top  of  each  slice  of  toast.  Cut 
each  slice  into  6  pieces.  Place  on  a  broiler  pan  about  3  inches 
from  source  of  heat.  Broil  for  2  to  3  minutes  or  until  brown. 
Makes  approximately  72  canapes. 


34 


Angels  on    Horseback   (oysters) 

1       pt.    select    oysters  '  8    tsp.    pepper 

12    slices  bacon  Va    tsp.  popriko 

'/2    tsp.    salt  2      tbsp.   parsley 

Drain  oysters  and  lay  each  oyster  across  half  a  slice  of  bacon. 
Sprinkle  with  seasonings  and  chopped  parsley.  Roll  bacon  around 
oyster  and  fasten  with  toothpick.  Place  oysters  on  a  rack  in 
shallow  baking  jian  and  bake  in  hot  oven  450°  for  about  10 
minutes  or  until  bacon  is  crisp.  Remove  toothpicks  and  serve. 
Serves  6. 


Scallop   Canapes 

'/z  lb.    cooked   scallops  '  4    tsp.    Worcestershire   sauce 

2  cloves  garlic,  finely  chopped  Dash    salt 

2  tbsp.   butter  or  other  fat,    melted  Dash    pepper 

V2  cup   grated   cheese  2       cups    pastry    mix 

Chop  scallops.  Cook  garlic  in  butter  for  2  to  3  minutes.  Add 
cheese,  seasonings,  and  scallops.  Blend  well.  Prepare  pastry  mix 
as  directed.  Roll  very  thin  and  cut  into  90  circles,  2  inches  each. 
Place  about  1  teaspoon  of  scallop  filling  in  the  center  of  45  circles. 
Cover  with  remaining  45  circles ;  press  edges  together  with  a  fork 
and  vent  top.  Place  on  a  baking  pan,  18  x  14  inches.  Bake  in  a 
very  hot  oven,  450°  F.,  for  10  to  15  minutes  or  until  brown.  Makes 
approximately  45  canapes. 


Shrimp   Turnovers 

Vi    lb.    cooked   shrimp  1       tbsp.  chopped   sweet  pickles 

1  tsp.    horseradish  1       tsp.   solt 

2  tbsp.    lemon    juice  3      tbsp.    mayonnaise 

1       tsp.    prepared    mustard  1       cup    pastry    mix    cream 

Grind  shrimp.  Combine  all  ingredients,  except  pastry  mix  and 
cream;  blend  into  a  paste.  Prepare  pastry  as  directed.  Roll  very 
thin  and  cut  into  2-inch  circles.  Place  teaspoon  of  filling  in  center 
of  each  circle.  Moisten  edges  with  cold  water ;  fold  over  and  press 
edges  together  with  a  foi'k.  Prick  tops  and  brush  with  cream. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  475°  F.,  for  12  to  15  minutes  or  until  golden 
brown.  Makes  about  48  turnovers. 


35 


COAJcL 


Clam    Chowder 


3       small  slices   (''4    cup)    salt   pork  6 

2      tsp.  flour  2 

12   oz.    clams  1 


cups  water 

medium-sized    onions,    diced 

cup   milk 


Fry  pork  until  brown.  Mix  flour  in  fat.  Add  clams,  water  and 
onions.  Cook  30  minutes.  Milk  may  be  added  if  desired  ,iust  before 
serving.  Serves  6. 

Carteret  County   Clam   Chowder 


1       qt.   water 

Salt,    pepper 

Corn    meal    dumplings 


V*  lb.  salt  pork,  cut  into  small  cubes 

2  medium-sized  potatoes,  cubed 

1  medium   onion,   chopped 

1  qt.   clams,    chopped 

Fry  pork  until  crisp  and  brown.  Add  potatoes,  onion,  clams  and 
water.  Simmer  until  potatoes  are  done,  adding  water  to  keep 
mixture  from  becoming  too  dry.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Drop  corn  meal  dumplings  on  top  chowder.  Cover  tightly 
and  simmer  15  minutes. 

New    England   Clam    Chowder 

1  pt.    clams  '/2    tsp.    salt 

Vk  cup  chopped  bacon  or  salt  pork  Dash  pepper 

V4  cup  chopped  onion  2      cups  milk 

1  cup  clam  liquor  and  water  Parsley 

1  cup   diced   potatoes 

Drain  clams  and  save  liquor.  Chop.  Fry  bacon  until  lightly 
brown.  Add  onion  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  liquor,  potatoes, 
seasonings,  and  clams.  Cook  about  15  minutes  or  until  potatoes 
are  tender.  Add  milk;  heat.  Garnish  with  chopped  parsley 
sprinkled  over  the  top.  Serves  6. 


36 


Manhat'tan   Clam    Chowder 

1  pt.    clams  1       cup   diced    potatoes 

Ya  cup   chopped   bacon    or    salt    pork  '  4    tsp.    thyme 

Vt  cup   chopped  onion  1       tsp.  salt 

Va  cup   chopped  green    pepper  Dash    cayenne 

1  cup    chopped    celery  2      cups  tomato  juice 

1  cup  clam   liquor  and   water 

Drain  clams  and  save  liquor.  Chop.  Fry  bacon  until  lightly 
brown.  Add  onion,  green  pepper,  and  celery;  cook  until  tender. 
Add  liquor,  potatoes,  seasonings,  and  clams.  Cook  about  15 
minutes  or  until  potatoes  are  tender.  Add  tomato  juice;  heat. 
Serves  6. 


Clam   Chowder — New   England   Style 

'/l  lb.   salt   pork,   diced  2  doz.  large  clams,  cut  up  or  ground 

2  onions,  finely  chopped  2'/]  cups   hot   water 

4  potatoes,  peeled  ond  diced  8  crackers 

1  qt.    hot    milk 

Fry  diced  pork  until  brown  and  remove  from  pan,  browning 
onions  and  potatoes  in  fat.  Heat  and  drain  clams.  Add  clams  to 
above  ingredients.  Add  hot  water  and  simmer  until  vegetables  are 
tender.  Add  hot  milk  and  crumbled  crackers.  Just  before  serving, 
pour  in  hot  clam  liquor.  Season  to  taste.  Clam  liquor  must  be 
added  last,  as  it  has  a  tendency  to  make  milk  curdle.  Serves  6. 


New    Bern  Clam   Chowder 


3  medium-sized   potatoes,   chopped 

1  qt.  boiling  woter 

1  qt.  clams,  chopped 

1  no.    2   can  tomatoes 


3    or   4  slices   salt   pork 
2    onions,  chopped 
Worcestershire    sauce 
Salt    and    pepper 


Chop  potatoes  and  add  to  boiling  water.  Boil  10  minutes.  Add 
clams  and  tomatoes.  Simmer  10  minutes  longer. 

Fry  salt  pork  until  crisp.  Dice  and  add  to  chowder.  Fry  onions 
in  pork  drippings  until  golden  and  add  to  chowder.  Season  with 
1  to  2  tablespoons  Worcestei'shire  sauce.  Season  to  taste. 


37 


Clam   and   Corn  Chowder 


1  pt.    clams 

Va  cup   chopped   bacon 

1  cup   chopped   onion 

1  cup   ctom   liquor   and   water 

1  cup    diced    potatoes 

1  tsp.   celery   salt 


1  tsp.    salt 

Dash   pepper 

1  cup   whole-kernel   corn 

2  cups   milk 

1  tbs.    butter   or   other    fat 

1/3    cup    cracker    crumbs 


Drain  clams  and  save  liquor.  Chop.  Fry  bacon  until  crisp; 
drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Cook  onion  in  fat  until  tender.  Add 
liquor,  potatoes,  seasonings,  and  clams.  Cook  about  15  minutes 
or  until  potatoes  are  tender.  Add  corn,  milk,  and  butter;  heat. 
Stir  in  crumbs.  Garnish  with  bacon  sprinkled  over  the  top. 
Serves  6. 


Oyster  Stew 


1  pt,   oysters 

4         tbsp.  butter 
1         qt.    milk 


1  Vi    tsp.  salt 
'/8      tsp.  pepper 
Paprika 


Melt  butter,  add  drained  oysters,  and  cook  3  minutes  or  until 
edges  curl.  Add  milk,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  bring  almost  to 
boiling  point.  Serve  at  once.  Garnish  with  paprika.  Serves  6. 


Core  Sound   Oyster   Stew 

Vz    tsp.  black  pepper 

Salt 

Corn   meal   dumplings 


Va    lb.   salt  pork 
2      qt.   oysters 
1       cup    water 

Cut  pork  into  small  cubes  and  fry  until  crisp  and  lightly 
browned.  Add  oysters,  water,  and  black  pepper.  Salt  to  taste. 

Heat  and  serve  or  add  corn  meal  dumplings,  cover  and  steam 
15  minutes  or  until  done. 

Oyster   Chowder 


3 

tbsp.  onion 

2'/j 

tsp.  salt 

3 

tbsp.  butter 

Va 

tsp.    pepper 

1 

cup   water 

1 

cup  canned  milk 

Va 

cup  diced  celery 

3 

cups  water 

1 

qt.    diced    potatoes 

l'/2 

pts.   small   oysters 

Saute  onion  in  butter.  Add  1  cup  water,  celery,  and  potatoes. 
Cover  and  cook  until  nearly  done.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
When  the  vegetables  are  tender,  add  the  milk.  Let  come  to  a 
boil.  Remove  from  fire.  Add  water  to  oysters  and  heat.  Remove 
any  scum.  When  edges  curl,  combine  with  milk  and  vegetables. 
Let  stand  few  minutes  for  flavors  to  blend.  Serve  hot.  Serves  6. 


38 


Oyster  Chowder 


1  pt.   oysters 

3  fbsp.  onion,  chopped 

3  tbsp.    buffer 

1  cup    water 

2/3  cup  celery,  diced 


2         cups  pototoes,  diced 

1         tbsp.  solt 

Vi      tsp.  pepper 

1  qt.  milk 

Parsley 


Fry  onion  in  buttei"  until  slightly  brown;  add  water,  celery, 
potatoes,  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  until  vegetables  are 
tender.  Add  milk  and  let  come  to  boiling  point.  Simmer  oysters 
in  their  liquor  about  5  minutes  or  until  edges  curl.  Drain.  Com- 
bine with  milk  and  vegetables.  Serve  immediately  with  chopped 
parsley  sprinkled  over  the  top.  Serves  6. 


Crab   Stew 


4      doz.  hord  crobs 

1  lb.   salt   pork 

2  lbs.  onions 


Salt,    pepper,    catsup,    Worcestershire 

souce,  hot  pepper 
V2    cup    vinegar 
Corn   meal 


Prepare  crabs  for  stew,  washing  well.  Fry  cut  cubes  of  salt 
pork  until  brown  and  put  in  a  deep  pot.  Add  alternating  layers  of 
crabs  and  onions,  peeled  and  sliced.  Cover  with  hot  water.  Add 
vinegar  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  let  boil 
15  minutes. 

Add  Worcestershire,  catsup  and  hot  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  15 
minutes  longer.  Sprinkle  in  a  little  meal.  Let  cook  until  thickened. 
If  not  as  thick  as  desired,  add  more  meal.  Serves  8. 


39 


Turtle   Soup 


1    small   can  evoporated   milk 
Salf  and  pepper 


Turtle   meat 

6    medium  potatoes,  diced 

S    smoll    onions,    chopped 

Cut  turtle  meat  in  small  pieces.  Place  in  a  heavy  cooking  pot. 
Cover  with  water.  Cook  until  meat  is  tender.  Add  potatoes  and 
onions.  Cook  until  meat  and  vegetables  are  done.  Evaporated  milk 
may  be  added  just  before  serving  if  desired.  Season  to  taste. 

Pine  Bark  Stew 

It  is  an  old  Tar  Heel  custom  to  prepare  stews  of  the  muddle 
type  in  black  iron  washpots  over  a  fire  outdoors.  In  the  old  days 
this  fire  was  often  made  from  pine  bark.  That's  how  the  name 
originated. 


lbs.  red  snapper  fillets  or  other 

fish  fillets,   fresh  or  frozen 
cup    chopped    bacon 
cup  chopped   onion 
cons  tomatoes  (1    lb.    13   oz.  each) 


1 

cup   catsup 

2 

cups  diced  potatoes 

2 

tbsp.   Worcestershire  souce 

2 

tsp.    salt 

Vi 

tsp.    pepper 

Thaw  frozen  fillets.  Skin  if  necessary.  Cut  fillets  into  1-inch 
pieces.  Fry  bacon  until  lightly  browned  in  a  large  kettle  on  a 
preheated  barbecue  grill.  Add  onion  and  cook  until  tender.  Add 
tomatoes,  catsup,  potatoes,  and  seasoning.  Cook  for  30  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally.  Add  fish  and  continue  cooking  until  pota- 
toes are  tender.  Serves  6. 

Fish   Chowder 

6    medium  potatoes,  boiled  and  diced        2    small  cons  tomato  paste 

2  lbs.  fish  (mullet,  snapper  or  grouper)    1    tbsp.    butter 

3  strips   bacon  Small  pod  garlic 

P^ry  bacon  and  brown  onions  in  fat.  Add  tomato  paste  and  cook 
15  minutes.  Cut  fish  in  squares  and  add.  Cook  slowly  for  10 
minutes.  Chop  garlic  fine  and  add  to  mixture  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste. 


40 


Fish   Chowder — New   England   Style 


1 

lb.  fillets 

1         cup  potatoes,  diced 

2 

tbsp.  bocon,  chopped 

2         cups    rich    milk 

Vi 

cup  onions,  chopped 

Vi      tsp.    salt 

2 

cups    hot   woter 

Dash  pepper 

Cut  fillets  in  about  1-inch  cubes.  Fry  bacon  until  crisp  and 
browned.  Add  onions  and  brown  slightly.  Add  water  and  potatoes 
and  cook  10  minutes  or  until  potatoes  are  partially  tender.  Add 
fish,  and  cook  until  it  can  be  flaked  easily  when  tested  with  a 
fork.  Add  milk  and  seasonings.  Heat.  Serve  immediately  with 
chopped  parsely  sprinkled  over  top.  Serves  6. 

Rock   Fish   Muddle 

14  to   15  lbs.  rock   fish  11/2    to  2  lbs.  crackers 

2Yi  lbs.  onions  6         doz.  eggs 

3</2  lbs.  salt  pork  2         lbs.   butter 

iVl  qts.   conned   tomatoes  Solt,   black  pepper,   red   pepper 

Boil  fish  in  enough  water  to  cover  until  done  enough  to  remove 
bones.  Take  fish  out  and  remove  all  bones — save  fish  broth.  Chip 
meat  and  fry  until  golden  brown  or  browner.  Remove  cracklings 
from  the  drippings.  Cut  onions  and  fry  in  drippings  until  partly 
brown.  Pour  off  excess  fat. 

Put  fish,  cracklings,  drippings  and  onions  all  back  in  broth.  Add 
tomatoes  and  cook  for  about  half  an  hour  or  more. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  eggs  well  and  add 
to  mixture,  then  crumble  crackers  and  add.  Cook  for  a  few 
minutes.  Add  butter  and  cook  about  two  minutes,  keeping  the 
mixture  stirred. 

Cook  in  an  open  pot  outdoors  if  possible.  More  water  may  be 
added,  if  desired. 


Bouillabaisse 

2       lbs.    fish;    snapper,    grouper,    snook      2       cloves    garlic,    minced 
2      lbs.   shellfish;   lobster,  crab,   shrimp,   2      chopped   tomatoes 

scallops  2      tsp.    parsley,    chopped 

Vl    cup  olive   oil  Salt,   pepper,   paprika,   saffron,   bay   leof 

1       leek,   chopped  1       qt.    fish    stock 

1       onion,  chopped  1       cup  white  wine 

Saute  leek,  onion,  garlic  and  tomatoes  in  oil.  Add  fish,  shellfish, 
parsley  and  seasonings.  Cover  all  with  fish  stock  or  boiling  water. 
Simmer  for  10  minutes,  adding  wine  during  last  5  minutes.  Serve 
with  slices  of  French  bread  rubbed  with  garlic. 


41 


Bread    Stuffing 


Dosh    pepper 

1       tsp.  thyme,   soge  or   sovory   seasoning 

4      cups  doy-old   bread  crumbs 


3  tbsp.    onions,    chopped 

Va  cup  celery,  chopped 

6  tbsp.    melfed    butter    or    other    tot 

1  tsp.    salt 

Cook  the  celery  and  onion  in  melted  fat  for  about  10  minutes, 
or  until  tender.  Add  the  cooked  vegetables  and  seasonings  to 
bread  crumbs,  and  mix  thoroughly.  If  dressing  seems  very  dry, 
add  2  tablespoons  water,  milk  or  fish  stock  to  moisten. 


Cheese   Stuffing 


1  Vl    cups    soft    bread    crumbs 
Vi       cup    American    cheddar    cheese, 
grated 


Vz       cup   onions,   sliced 

V^       cup   butter   or   margarine 

Va      tsp.  salt 

Dash   of  pepper 

Saute  onions  in  butter  or  margarine  until  tender.  Toss  with 
salt,  pepper,  bread  crumbs  and  cheese.  Use  to  top  2-pound  fillets 
or  to  fill  pairs  of  1-to  IV^-pound  fillets. 


Oyster   Stuffing   for  Chicken 


1  tbsp.   parsley,   chopped 

1  tsp.   salt 

Vs  tsp.    poultry    seasoning 

Vi  tsp.  pepper 


1  pt.  oysters 

Yi  cup   celery,    chopped 

Vi  cup  onion,  chopped 

4  tbsp.   butter 

4  cups   day-old   bread  cubes 

Drain  oysters,  saving  liquor,  and  chop.  Cook  celery  and  onion 
in  butter  until  tender.  Combine  oysters,  cooked  vegetables,  bread 
cubes,  and  seasonings,  and  mix  thoroughly.  If  stuffing  seems  dry, 
moisten  with  oyster  liquor.  Makes  enough  for  a  4-pound  chicken. 


For  10-15  lb.  turkey 
For  16-20  lb.  turkey 
For  21-25  lb.   turkey 


Oyster   Stuffing   for  Turkey 

3  times  above   recipe 

4  times  above   recipe 

5  times   obove   recipe 


42 


Garden   Stuffing 

1  smoll  clove  gorlic  V2  cup    chopped    celery 

1  tsp.  salt  2  coarsely  chopped,  peeled  medium 

Vi  cup  minced  green  onion  or  scalllons  pototoes 

'/2  cup    chopped    green    pepper  3  tbsp.  chopped  porslcy 

With  side  of  knife  blade,  mash  garlic  with  salt  on  cutting  board. 
Mix  with  rest  of  ingredients.  Use  as  stuffing  and  topping  for 
dressed  6-to  7-pound  fish. 


Rice-ond-Olive   Stuffing 


Vi 


cup  butter,  margarine,  fot,  or 
salad  oil 

1  Vl  cups  minced  onion 

2  cups    diced    celery 
2    2/3    cups    cooked    rice 


"2  tsp.  solt 

Vz  tsp.   pepper 

Vl  tsp.   dried  soge 

Vl  tsp.  dried  thyme 

2  cups  chopped  stuffed  olives 


Melt  butter  in  skillet.  Add  onion  and  celery;  saute  until  tender 
— about  3  minutes.  Add  rice  and  rest  of  ingredients ;  toss.  Use  to 
stuff  dressed  6-  to  8-  pound  fish. 


43 


Hush   Puppy   Recipe 


IVi 

cups   ground    meal 

1/3 

tsp.  garlic  solt 

% 

cup    plain    flour 

V^ 

fsp.    black    pepper 

% 

tsp.  soil- 

2 

eggs 

6 

tsp.   baking   powder 

2 

cups   chopped    onions 

I'/i 

cups    of    milk 

(some    prefer    withouf) 

IV4 

fsp.   sugar 

Sift  and  mix  dry  ingredients  thoroughly  and  stir  onions  into 
dry  ingredients.  Add  egg  yolks  to  milk  and  beat  together;  then 
mix  into  dry  ingredients.  Beat  egg  whites  until  smooth  (not 
stiff).  Add  light  sprinkle  of  baking  powder  to  egg  whites  just 
before  you  finish  beating.  Fold  egg  white  into  batter  in  one  direc- 
tion with  as  little  stirring  as  possible.  Fry  in  deep  fat  by  dropping 
in  balls  V-2  tsp.  in  size.  Place  on  absorbent  paper  to  remove 
excess  grease  and  serve  hot. 


44 


J^\ajcIbJ9C 


Fish    6 

Baked  Fish   6 

Baked  Stuffed  Fish   6 

Planked  Fish  6 

Baked  Fillets  or  Steaks 7 

Frozen  Fish  Fillets   7 

Baked  Mullet  with  Cheese  Sauce 7 

Baked  or  Broiled  Mullet  with  Creamed  Roe 8 

Baked  Mullet  with  Tomato  Sauce 8 

Fried  Fish  8 

Sauteed  King  Mackerel 9 

Smoked  Fish   9 

Shad  De  Luxe 9 

Shrimp     10 

Shrimp   Creole    10 

Shrimp  in  Tomato  Aspic 10 

Spiced  Shrimp    10 

French-Fried  Shrimp    11 

Shrimp  Gumbo   11 

Shrimp  Jambalaya  11 

Shrimp  Bisque   11 

Curried  Shrimp    11 

Oysters    12 

Oysters  Au  Gratin  12 

Scalloped  Oysters  12 

Roasted  Oysters  in  the  Shell 12 

Oyster   Cocktail    13 

Oyster  Noodle  Casserole  13 

Creamed  Oysters   13 

Oyster  a  La  King 14 

45 


Xvix(e*: 


Deviled  Oysters    14 

Fried  Oysters   14 

Oyster  Fritters   15 

Oyster  Rockefeller   15 

Broiled  Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell 15 

Steamed  Oysters  in  the  Shell 15 

Clams    16 

Fried   Clams    16 

Deep-Fat  Fried  Clams 16 

Roast  Clams    16 

Steamed  Clams   17 

Clams  on  the  Half  Shell 17 

Cocktail   Sauce    17 

Clam  Fritters   17 

Clam  Fritters   18 

Clam  and  Spaghetti  Casserole 18 

Crabs     19 

Crab  Cakes    19 

Barbecued  Crab  Sandwiches   19 

Crab  Meat  Salad 19 

Crab  Cocktail  &  Sauce 20 

Sea  Ranch  Crab  Bisque 20 

Spaghetti  with  Crab  Sauce 21 

Crab  Potato  Cakes 21 

Crab  Ravigote 21 

Crab  Jambalaya   22 

Tomatoes  stuffed  with  Crab  Meat   22 

Imperial  Crab 22 

Deviled   Crab    23 

Baked  Crab  Meat  in  Shells  23 

46 


Xvixte*: 


Crab  Newburg   23 

Fried  Soft-Shell  Blue  Crabs   24 

Pan  Fried    24 

Deep-Fat   Fried    24 

Scallops     25 

Scallops  and  Rice  Au  Gratin   25 

Scallop  Shepherd's  Pie   25 

Broiled  Scallops   26 

Scallop  Kabobs   26 

Scallop  Croquettes   26 

Scallop  Fritters 27 

Fried   Scallops    27 

Scallop  Bisque 27 

Scallop   Salad    27 

Sauces     28 

Spanish    Sauce    28 

Shrimp  Sauce   28 

Tartar   Sauce    28 

Mushroom  Sauce    28 

Maitre  D'Hotel  Butter 29 

Lemon  Sauce 29 

Buerre  Noir  (black  butter)    29 

Caper  Sauce    29 

Tartar  Sauce 30 

Cocktail  Sauce    30 

Bechamel  Sauce   30 

Remoulade  Sauce   30 

Dip    31 

Clam  Sauce  for  Noodles  31 

Chili-Mustard  Sauce    31 

47 


SAAxleJf^ 


Tomato  Sauce   31 

Spicy  Dunk  Sauce   32 

Sauce  for  Shrimp,  Lobster,  Crab  meat  32 

Cucumber  Sauce 32 

Creole  Sauce   32 

Hollandaise  Sauce 33 

Curry  Sauce    33 

Anchovy  Sauce  33 

Cream  Sauce  33 

Cocktail   Sauce    33 

Canapes  &  Hors  D'Oeuvres    34 

Broiled  Clam  Canapes 34 

Crab  Canapes   34 

Angels  on  Horseback  (oysters)    35 

Scallop  Canapes   35 

Shrimp  Turnovers   35 

Soups  and  Chowders    36 

Clam   Chowder    36 

Carteret  County  Clam  Chovi'der   36 

New  England  Clam  Chowder 36 

Manhattan  Clam  Chowder   37 

Clam  Chowder — New  England  Style 37 

New  Bern  Clam  Chowder 37 

Clam  and  Corn  Chowder 38 

Oyster  Stew    38 

Core  Sound  Oyster  Stew 38 

Oyster  Chowder   38 

Oyster  Chowder    39 

Crab  Stew   39 

Turtle  Soup  40 

48 


Xujctei^ 


Pine  Bark  Stew   40 

Fish  Chowder  40 

Fish  Chowder — New  England  Style 41 

Rock  Fish  Muddle   41 

Bouillabaisse    41 

Stuffings     42 

Bread  Stuffing   42 

Cheese  Stuffing 42 

Oyster  Stuffing  for  Chicken 42 

Oyster  Stuffing  for  Turkey   42 

Garden  Stuffing   43 

Rice-and-Olive  Stuffing  43 

Hush  Puppy  Recipe 44 


49 


The  compilers  irisli  to  express  their  appreciation  to  the 
following  ivhose  help  made  this  publication  possible: 

For  recipes — Henry  Belk,  Editor  of  the  Goldsboro  Neics- 
Argus;  Elizabeth  Hedgecock  Sparks,  Food  Editor  of  the 
Winston-Salem  Journal  and  Sentinal;  the  United  States 
Department  of  Interior,  Fish  a)id  Wildlife  Service. 

For  engravings — Nathan  Mayo,  Commissioner  of  Agricul- 
ture, State  of  Florida,  and  the  United  States  Department 
of  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service. 

Cover  photograph  by  Ralph  Mills. 


50 


STATE  LIBRARY  OF  NORTH  CAROLINA 

'"""" '"H[|ll'l[l    ■         ■      ■ 


3  3091  00739  0271 


