#    ^ 


.V 


■9 


# 


.A' 


^  -nt 


SENSE  IN  THE  KITCHEN. 


A  GUIDE   TO 


Economical  Coram 


B  Y 

ABBY  MERRILL  ADAMS. 

— 


'  *cr---  y 


5 


Syracuse,  K  Y. : 
A.    S.   HUNTER,    PUBLISHER. 

1881. 


Copyright,  1881,  by  Emily  Hooker  Hunter. 


C.  W.  Bardebn,  Printer.  A.  J.  Ckook,' Bin  der. 


PREFACE 


The  peculiar  and  distinctive  features  of  Sense  in  the 
Kitchen  to  which  we  would  call  special  attention,  are: 

i st.  It  is  the  result  of  experience,  every  recipe  having 
been  tested  and  known  to  be  the  best. 

2nd.  The  recipes  are  simple  and  plain,  the  work  being 
primarily  designed  for  the  home,  rather  than  for  the  1? 
tel  and  restaurant. 

3d.  The  full  and  explicit  directions  with  each  recipe 
cannot  fail  to  please  every  young  housekeeper. 

4th.  The  chemistry  of  Food  is  fully  and  clearly  treate^ 
so  that  one  learns  not  only  how  any  kind  of  food  shotj.a 
be  prepared  but  why  it  should  be  so  prepared. 

5th.  Particular  attention  is  paid  to  the  hygienic  effect 
of  different  kinds  of  food  upon  the  different  systems. 

6th.  In  the  part  devoted  to  etiquette  and  ceremonious 
entertainments  we  try  to  meet  the  needs  of  those  who  wish 
such  help  and  yef  Who  do  not  wish  to  follow  the  extremes 
of  social  life. 

In  the  preparation  of  this  work  the  following  .well 
known  authorities  have  been  consulted  :  "Johnson's  Agri- 


IV  PREFACE. 

cultural  Chemistry,"  "  Youman's  Chemistry  and  House- 
hold Science,"  Edwin  Smith's  valuable  work  on  "Foods," 
George  H.  Lewes'  "  Physiology  of  Common  Life,"  "Wells' 
Chemistry,"  W.  B.  Tegetmeier's  "Handbook  of  Household 
Management  and  Cookery,"  Marion  Harland's  "  Common 
Sense,"  and  "Breakfast,  Luncheon  and  Tea,"  Mrs.  Corne- 
lius' "Young  Housekeeper,"  also  "Chicago  Home,"  and 
"Kansas  Home." 

We  owe  much  to  friends  of  the  compiler  who  have 
kindly  furnished  many  valuable  recipes,  and  we  are  under 
special  obligations  to  Mrs.  Leonard,  of  La  Crosse,  Wis 


INDEX  OF  SUBJECTS. 


PAGE. 

Arranging  the  Tables.. 311 

Bills  of  Fare 324 

Bread 130 

Cake 163 

Canned  Fruit 264 

Catsups 115 

Confectionery 271 

Drinks 278 

Elements      of     Animal 

Food 9 

Elements   of   Vegetable 

Food &3 

Eggs. 67 

Etiquette 316 

Fancy   Dishes  for   Des- 
sert  235 

Fish 21 

Fritters 155 

Flavored  Vinegars 104 

Game 62 

Gravies  (See  Sauces  for 
Meat  and  Fish.) 

Griddle  Cakes.. 151 

Hygiene  of  Animal  Food  80 
Hygiene    of     Vegetable 
Food 158 


PAG3. 

Hygiene  of  Drinks 291 

Ice  Cream   246 

Introductory 7 

Meats. 36 

Meat  Maxims 7,8 

Milk,Butter  and  Cheese.   71 

Miscellaneous 300 

Pies 196 

Poultry 56 

Puddings 208 

Pudding  Sauces 227 

Pickles 105 

Salads 118 

Sauces    for    Meat    and 

Fish 64 

Sugars 160 

Sauces,    Preserves    and 

Fruit  Jellies  - „  »-„  .,,.251 

Soup. 11 

Sick  Room .......  291 

Sweetmeat  Maxims. . . .  188 

Vegetables ZZ 

Vegetable  Maxims  ....  157 
Vegetable  Acids  ......  102 

Waffles 151 

Yeast 125 


We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  or  art 

We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart } 

We  may  live  without  friends  ;  we  may  live  without  books ; 

But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

He  may  live  without  books, — what  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 

He  may  live  without  hope, — what  is  hope  but  deceiving  ? 

He  may  live  without  love, — what  is  passion  but  pining  ? 

But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining  ? 

—Owen  Meredith. 


FOOD 


Food  is  required  by  the  body  for  two  chief  purposes, 
viz:  to  generate  heat  and  to  produce  and  maintain  the 
structure  under  the  influence  of  life  and  exertion.  The 
duty  assigned  to  food  is  to  supply  the  materials  which  are 
lost  by  the  waste  which  is  continually  going  on  in  the  body; 
so  that  bone  must  be  renewed  by  materials  which  com- 
pose bone;   flesh  by  flesh. 

Flesh  in  its  fresh  state  contains  water,  fat,  fibrine,  albu- 
men and  gelatine,  besides  compounds  of  lime,  phosphorus, 
soda,  potash,  magnesia,  silica  and  iron,  and  certain  ex- 
tractives. Blood  has  a  composition  similar  in  elements  to 
that  of  flesh.  Bone  is  composed  of  cartilage,  gelatine,  fat 
and  salts  of  lime,  magnesia,  soda  and  potash  combined 
with  phosphoric  and  other  acids. 

The  brain  is  composed  of  water,  albumen,  fat,  phos- 
phoric acid,  osmazome  and  salts. 

Hence  it  is  required  that  the  body  should  be  provided 
with  salts  of  potash,  soda,  lime,  magnesia,  sulphur,  iron, 
as  well  as  sulphuric,  phosphoric  acids  and  water.  Thus  a 
knowledge  of  the  composition  and  requirements  of  the 
physical  system  leads  to  a  proper  combination  of  food; 
and  these  combinations  have  been  effected  by  investiga- 
tion and  experience  which  protect  even  the  most  ignorant 
from  evil  consequences. 

All  animal  food  is  rich  in  the  four  most  essential  ele- 
ments to  man,  viz:  carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen  and  nitrogen, 
as  well  as  many  other  very  important  elements  to  our  well 
being;  such  as  phosphorus,  sulphur,  chlorine,  potassium, 


8  FOOD. 

lime,  iron  and  water  which  is  a  compound.  Phosphorus 
is  found  in  all  animals  in  the  state  of  phosphoric  acid. 
This  united  with  lime  forms  the  phosphorate  of  lime,  never 
absent  from  bone. 

Sulphur  is  found  in  all  animal  substances. 

Chlorine  is  one  of  the  parts  of  salt. 

Potassium  is  formed  in  a  very  small  degree  in  animals 
and  is  the  base  of  potash. 

Iron  in  the  state  of  oxide  is  found  in  minute  portions 
in  all  animals. 

Water,  composed  of  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  is  found 
ready  formed.  Blood  contains  80  per  cent,  water,  flesh 
75  per  cent. 

It  is  calculated  that  the  human  body  makes  up  three- 
fourths  of  its  weight  in  water. 

These  are  called  the  elements;  the  first  four  named  are 
the  principal  or  essential  elements.  The  proximate  prin- 
ciples of  animals  are  fibrine,  gelatine,  albumen,  oils  and 
fats,  osmazome  and  caseine.  These  elements  will  be 
found  discussed  under  such  heads  of  food  as  they  form 
an  essential  part. 


ELEMENTS  OF  ANIMAL  FOOD. 


It  is  well  known  that  the  flesh  of  nearly  all  grazing  an- 
imals, either  wild  or  domestic,  is  good  for  food.  It  con- 
tains the  proximate  principles  of  animals,  viz.,  albumen, 
fibrine,  fat,  gelatine,  water,  salts  and  osmazome. 

Albumen  is  found  the  most  pure  in  the  egg,  and  will 
there  be  more  fully  discussed. 

Fibrine  is  found  in  the  animal  body  in  two  distinct 
states,  viz.,  in  a  solid  condition  in  muscular  flesh,  and  as 
a  fluid  in  the  blood.  That  which  we  will  discuss  is  the 
solid  fibrine,  which  is  the  fleshy  part  of  meat  when  freed 
from  fat,  and  forms  the  base  of  the  meat;  when  boiled 
sufficiently  long  to  become  tender,  unites  with  the  gelatine 
and  is  nutritive  and  strengthening. 

Fat  in  animal  flesh  is  found  in  the  form  of  suet,  mar- 
row and  leaf,  or  what  is  known  as  lard  when  tried  out. 
Fat  or  oily  substances  are  furnished  to  the  system,  mingled 
by  nature  with  nearly  all  the  food  we  eat.  Milk  contains, 
three  or  four  per  cent,  of  it,  and  ordinary  meat,  fourteen 
per  cent;  while  in  butter,  gravies  and  fat  we  have  it  con- 
centrated and  almost  pure.  Fat  in  small  quantities  is 
found  to  be  an  essential  agent  in  promoting  digestion,, 
while  an  excess  of  it  exerts  an  injurious  effect  especially 
in  persons  of  weak  digestion. 

Cooking  generally  renders  fatty  substances  less  agree- 
able to  the  stomach  especially  if  the  organ  is  weak.  In< 
frying,  the  temperature  runs  high,  tending  to  decomposi- 
tion and  the  production  of  various  acrid  and  irritant  fatty 
acids.  Fatty  matters  thus  changed  are  liable  to  become 
rancid  by  the  fermenting  action  of  the  stomach  producing, 
heart-burn  and  nausea. 


IO  ELEMENTS    OF    ANIMAL    FOOD. 

Gelatine. — Various  parts  of  the  animal  body  such  as 
the  skin,  tendons,  cartilage  and  soft  portions  of  the  bones 
dissolve  completely  by  long  boiling  and  form,  when  cold,  a 
jelly,  called  gelatine,  which  is  exclusively  an  animal  prod- 
uct, and  is  never  found  in  plants;  that  which  forms  a  jelly 
in  plants  is  pectine.  Gelatine  is  rich  in  nitrogen  and  also 
contains  some  sulphur.     Common  glue  is  dried  gelatine. 

Ising-glass,  which  is  the  purest  variety  of  gelatine,  is 
mainly  procured  from  the  air  bladders  of  several  varieties 
of  fish,  especially  of  the  sturgeon.  As  an  article  of  food 
gelatine  is  used  largely  in  soups,  jellies,  etc.  Although  it 
has  been  proved  to  have  little  nutritive  value,  but  is  re- 
garded in  the  sick-room,  in  the  form  of  jelly,  as  an  agree- 
able accompaniment  to  more  nutritious  food. 

Osmazome  is  a  substance  which  has  a  reddish  brown 
color  and  gives  the  smell  and  flavor  to  meats;  it  varies 
with  various  animals  and  increases  with  their  age.  It 
takes  its  name  from  two  Greek  words,  meaning  smell  and 
soup. 

Flesh  of  Fish  differs  little  in  chemical  composition 
from  animal  flesh  except  in  phosphorus,  but  greatly  from 
it  in  flavor  and  texture.  In  different  varieties  the  propor- 
tion of  fat  and  oil  varies,  being  much  greater  in  some  than 
in  others,  it  is  also  found  in  greater  proportion  in  them, 
than  in  quadrupeds.  The  eel  contains  fifty  per  cent,  of 
fat;  herring,  thirty  per  cent;  salmon,  in  good  condition, 
ten  to  twenty  per  cent.  Fish  is  rich  in  phosphorus;  but 
it  will,  not  sustain  full  health  and  strength  like  flesh,  al- 
though it  is  very  good  food.  In  countries  where  fish 
forms  the  main  diet,  leprosy  is  found  to  be  a  more  com- 
mon disease  than  in  countries  where  a  mixed  diet  is  used. 
Oysters  are  delicacies  rather  than  necessary  food. 

Lobsters  and  other  kinds  of  shell  fish  are  very  indigest- 
ible and  persons  of  weak  digestion  cannot  eat  them  with 
impunity. 


SOUP. 


The  base  ot  soup  should  always  be  lean,  uncooked 
meat;  to  which  may  be  added  chicken,  turkey,  beef  or 
mutton  bones  well  broken  up.  Wash  the  meat  and  put  it 
in  cold  water  without  salt;  soft  water  is  best;  if  hard  wa- 
ter is  used,  a  little  soda  improves  the  water;  let  it  come 
slowly  to  a  boil.  Always  skim  often,  do  not  add  the  salt 
and  other  seasoning  until  the  scum  has  ceased  to  rise. 
Let  it  gently  simmer  for  eight  or  ten  hours  until  the  meat 
is  in  rags;  then  strain  the  stock  into  an  earthen  jar;  do 
not  cool  in  metal  as  there  may  be  poison  in  the  soldering 
or  other  parts;  let  it  cool  and  remove  all  the  grease.  The 
stock  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  several  days,  and  from  it 
can  be  made  all  the  various  kinds  of  soup.  Be  very  care- 
ful in  using  cold  meats  and  bones  that  none  are  tainted, 
as  the  soup  may  be  ruined  by  the  use  of  a  very  little 
tainted  bone  or  meat.  If  the  meat  is  cut  in  small  pieces 
and  bones  well  broken,  the  juices  can  be  extracted  much 
quicker  than  if  used  in  large  pieces.  The  neck  and 
knuckle  pieces  are  good  for  soup-stock.  Whatever  may 
be  added  to  this  stock  when  used,  as  rice,  tapioca,  vegeta- 
bles, etc.,  must  be  cooked  before  being  added,  as  much 
boiling  injures  the  flavor  of  the  soup.  .  Thin  soups  must 
be  strained.  If  it  is  to  be  made  very  clear,  stir  in  one  or 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  with  the  shells,  and  let  it  boil  half 
an  hour,  and  then  strain. 

Flavors  for  Soups. 

The  following  are  most  of  the  flavors  used  by  the  best 
French  cooks,  also  those  of  Professor  Blot  and  Soyer. 
Combinations  are  recommended  by  those  authors  in  the 
following  proportions: 


12  SOUP. 

}£  ounce  thyme. 

3^  ounce  bay-leaf. 

%  ounce  marjoram. 

}i  ounce  rosemary. 

Dry  the  above  when  fresh;  mix  in  a  mortar,  and  keep 
them  corked  tight  in  a  glass  bottle. 

Also  the  following  in  these  proportions: 

y2  ounce  nutmeg. 

y2  ounce  cloves. 

]£  ounce  black  pepper. 

yb  ounce  cayenne  pepper. 

Pound,  mix  and  keep  corked  tight  in  glass.  In  using 
these  with  salt,  put  one  ounce  of  the  last  recipe  to  four 
ounces  of  salt.  In  making  dressing,  or  force  meat,  and 
hash,  use  at  the  rate  of  one  ounce  of  this  spiced  salt  to 
three  pounds  of  meat. 

Soup  Powder. 

2  ounces  parsley. 

2  ounces  summer  savory. 

2  ounces  sweet  marjoram. 

2  ounces  thyme. 

i  ounce  lemon  peel. 

i  ounce  sweet  basil. 

Dry,  pound,  sift  andrkeep  in  a  tight  corked  bottle.  Let 
the  housekeeper  add  these  flavors  so  that  they  will  not  be 
strong,  but  quite  delicate,  and  then  make  a  rule  for  the 
cook.  The  excellence  of  French  cooking  is  the  combina- 
tion of  flavors,  all  so  delicate  in  force  and  quality  that  no 
one  is  allowed  to  predominate. 


MEAT  AND  VEGETABLE  SOUPS. 

Veal  Soup  with  Macaroni. 

3  pounds  of  veal  knuckle,  with  the  bones  broken  and 
meat  cut  up. 

3  quarts  water. 

^  pound  Italian  macaroni. 

Boil  the  meat  alone  in  the  water  for  nearly  three  hours, 
until  it  is  reduced  to  shreds;  put  the  macaroni  in  enough 
water  to  cover  it,  in  a  vessel  by  itself  and  boil  until  ten- 
der. The  pieces  should  be  only  an  inch  in  length.  Add 
a  little  butter  to  the  macaroni  when  nearly  done.  Strain 
the  meat  out  of  the  soup,  season  to  your  taste,  put  in  the 
macaroni,  and  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled;  let  it  boil 
up,  and  serve. 

Turkey  Soup. 

Put  all  the  turkey  bones,  and  little  bits  left  of  a  dinner 
into  about  three  quarts  of  water.  If  you  have  turkey 
gravy,  or  the  remnants  of  chicken,  add  them  also,  and 
boil  them  two  hours  or  more.  Skim  out  the  meat  and 
bones,  and  set  the  water  aside  in  a  cool  place  until  the 
next  day.  Then  take  all  the  fat  from  the  top;  take  the 
bones  and  pieces  of  skin  out  from  the  meat  and  return  it 
to  the  liquor.  If  some  of  the  dressing  has  been  left,  put 
that  in  also,  and  boil  all  together  a  few  minutes.  Add 
more  seasoning  if  necessary.  An  onion  should  be  boiled 
in  it. 

Rich  Beef  Soup. 

6  pounds  of  beef. 
6  quarts  of  water. 
2  turnips. 


14  MEAT    AND    VEGETABLE    SOUPS. 

2  carrots. 

i  head  of  celery. 

i  quart  of  tomatoes. 

%  head  small  white  cabbage. 

i  pint  green  corn,  or  Shaker  corn,  (soaked  over  night.) 

Simmer  the  beef  in  the  water  for  six  hours,  using  the 
bones,  broken  in  small  pieces.  Cool  it  and  take  off  the 
fat.  Next  day,  an  hour  before  dinner,  take  out  the  meat 
to  use  for  hash  or  mince-meat,  heat  the  liquor,  throw  in 
some  salt  to  raise  the  scum,  and  skim  it  well.  Then  slice 
the  vegetables  small,  and  boil  in  a  very  little  water.  Cook 
the  cabbage  in  two  waters,  throwing  away  the  first.  Boil 
the  soup  half  an  hour  after  these  are  put  in.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  mace  and  wine  to  suit  the  taste. 

Mutton  Soup. 

4  pounds  of  mutton. 

4  quarts  of  water. 

4  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

i  even  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar. 

i  small  onion. 

2  carrots. 

2  turnips. 

i  teacup  of  rice,  or  broken  macaroni. 

Boil  the  meat  in  the  water  two  hours.  Then  add  the 
vegetables,  all  cut  fine,  and  the  seasoning,  and  boil  one 
hour  and  a  half  longer. 

French  Vegetable  Soup. 

i  leg  of  lamb,  of  moderate  size. 

4  quarts  of  water. 

Potatoes,  carrots,  cabbage,  tomatoes  and  turnips,  take 

i  teacupful  of  each,  chopped  fine. 

4  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

Pepper  to  taste. 

Wash  the  lamb  and  put  it  into  the  four  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Skim  carefully.  Cook  two  hours,  then  add  the 
vegetables.     Carrots  require  the  most  boiling,  and  should 


MEAT    AND    VEGETABLE    SOUPS.  1$ 

be  put  in  first.     This  soup  requires  about  three  hours  to 
boil. 

Plain  Calf's  Head  Soup. 

Boil  the  head  and  feet  in  just  water  enough  to  cover 
them;  when  tender,  take  out  the  bones,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  season  with  marjoram,  thyme,  cloves,  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  all  into  the  pot,  with  the  liquor,  and  four  spoonfuls  of 
butter;  stew  gently  an  hour;  then,  just  as  you  take  it  up,, 
add  two  or  three  glasses  of  port-wine,  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs  boiled  hard. 

Ox-Tail  Soup. 

Take  two  tails,  divide  them  at  the  joints.  Soak  them 
a  little  while  in  warm  water,  then  put  them  into  cold  wa- 
ter in  a  gallon  pot  or  stew-pan,  with  a  little  salt.  Skim  off 
the  froth.  When  the  meat  is  boiled  to  shreds,  take  out 
the  bones,  and  add  a  chopped  onion  and  carrot.  Use 
spices  and  sweet  herbs  as  you  prefer.  Sprinkle  in  a  little 
farina  before  serving.  The  bones  and  meat  should  be 
boiled  the  day  before  being  served,  and  the  next  day  take 
the  fat  off  from  the  top  of  the  liquor,  and  then  add  the 
vegetables  and  spice,  and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half  more. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

i  soup-bone. 

i  quart  of  turtle  beans. 

i  large  spoonful  powdered  cloves. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

6  quarts  of  water. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night,  put  them  on  with  the  soup- 
bone  in  nearly  six  quarts  of  water  and  cook  five  or  six 
hours.  When  half  done  add  the  seasoning;  when  done, 
strain  through  a  colander,  pressing  the  pulp  of  the  beans 
through  to  make  the  soup  the  desired  thickness.  Serve 
with  a  few  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg  and  lemon  sliced  very 
thin. 

The  turtle  beans  are  black  and  can  only  be  obtained 
from  large  grocers. 


«6       meat  and  vegetable  soups. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

3  carrots. 

3  turnips. 

i  small  cabbage. 

i  pint  tomatoes. 

Chop  the  vegetables,  except  the  tomatoes,  very  fine; 
have  ready  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  three  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  and  put  in  all  except  the  cabbage  and  tomatoes,  and 
-simmer  for  a  half  hour,  then  the  chopped  cabbage  and 
tomatoes,  the  latter  having  been  stewed;  also  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs.  Let  the  soup  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  then 
strain  through  a  sieve,  rubbing  all  the  vegetable  through. 
Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  best  butter  and  one  of  flour, 
and  beat  them  to  a  cream.  Now,  pepper  and  salt  your 
soup  to  taste;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  a  half  cup 
of  cream,  lastly  stir  in  the  butter  and  flour.  Let  it  boil 
up,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  Serve  with  fried  bread 
chips. 

Green  Corn  Soup. 

i  large  fowl,  or  4  pounds  of  veal. 

1  gallon  of  cold  water. 

Put  the  meat  in  the  water  without  salt,  cover  tightly 
and  simmer  slowly  till  the  meat  slips  from  the  bone;  do 
not  let  it  boil  to  rags,  as  it  will  make  a  nice  dish  for  break- 
fast. Set  aside  with  the  meat  a  cup  full  of  the  liquor. 
Strain  the  soup  to  remove  all  bones  and  rags  of  meat, 
grate  one  dozen  ears  of  green  corn,  scrape  the  cob  to  re- 
move the  heart  of  the  kernel;  add  the  corn  to  the  soup, 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  parsley;  simmer  slowly  a 
half  hour;  just  before  serving,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
beaten  very  thoroughly  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Serve  hot.  To  serve  the  chicken  or  veal,  put  the  cup  of 
broth  in  a  clean  saucepan;  beat  one  egg,  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  all  together  very  thor- 
oughly, add  to  the  broth,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped 
parsley;  boil  all  together  for  a  minute;  arrange  the  meat 
on  a  dish,  pour  over  the  dressing  while  boiling  hot,  and 
serve  at  once. 


meat  and  vegetable  soups.        1 7 

Pea  Soup. 

2  quarts  of  good  stock. 

i  quart  of  split  peas,  or  green  peas. 

i  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar. 

Soak  the  peas,  if  split,  over  night,  and  then  boil  tender 
in  just  enough  water  to  prevent  them  from  scorching; 
when  tender,  pass  through  a  sieve,  and  add  them  to  the 
stock;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  let  all  come  slowly  to 
a  boil.  Let  the  soup  simmer  slowly  for  thirty  minutes, 
and  'just  before  serving,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  butter 
in  which  has  been  stirred  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Serve 
hot  with  chips  of  fried  bread. 

Dry  Bean  Soup. 

To  i  quart  of  stock,  use 

i  pint  of  dry  beans. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night,  in  the  morning  boil  until 
soft;  pass  through  a  colander  or  sieve,  and  add  to  the 
stock,  as  in  pea  soup.  A  sliced  onion  may  be  added  if 
desired.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Asparagus  Soup. 

3  or  4  pounds  of  veal  cut  fine. 
A  little  salt  pork. 

2  or  3  bunches  of  asparagus. 

3  quarts  of  water, 
i  pint  of  milk. 

Boil  one-half  of  the  asparagus  with  the  meat,  leaving 
the  rest  in  water  until  about  twenty  minutes  before  serv- 
ing; then  add  the  rest  of  the  asparagus  and  boil  just  be- 
fore serving;  add  the  milk;  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and 
season.  The  soup  should  boil  about  three  hours  before 
adding  the  last  half  of  the  asparagus. 

Tomato  Soup 
i  quart  of  stock, 
i  quart  of  tomatoes. 

Cook  the  tomato  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  or  until  it  be- 
3 


l8  MEAT   AND   VEGETABLE   SOUPS. 

comes  a  pulp;  then  strain.  Add  the  tomatoes  to  the  stock, 
and  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cook  the  tomatoes  in  the  stock 
gently  for  a  half  hour.  Flavor  with  pepper.  Celery  also 
adds  to  its  flavor. 

Noodles  for  Soup. 

Rub  into  two  eggs  as  much  sifted  flour  as  they  will  ab- 
sorb; then  roll  out  until  thin  as  a  wafer;  dust  over  a  little 
flour,  and  then  roll  over  and  over  into  a  roll.  Cut  off 
thin  slices  from  the  edge  of  the  roll  and  shake  out  into 
long  strips;  put  them  into  the  soup  lightly  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes;  about  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  should  be  added 
while  mixing  with  the  flour. 

Croutons. 

Cut  wheat  bread  in  squares  of  one-half  inch,  and  fry 
in  butter  until  a  golden  brown.  Take  them  up  in  a  dish 
to  drain  some  time  before  ready  for  table.  Serve  with 
soup  instead  of  crackers. 


FISH    SOUPS, 

Oyster  Soup.    No.  i. 

\y2  quarts  of  milk. 

i  quart  of  oysters. 

z/z  cup  of  butter. 

A  little  salt. 

Have  ready  a  bright  stew-pan  or  kettle,  into  which  put 
the  oysters  and  liquor,  with  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
cover  the  oysters.  Stew  gently,  stirring  occasionally  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  As  the  scum  rises  it  must  be 
taken  off.  When  the  oysters  are  nearly  done,  add  the 
milk;  and  lastly,  the  butter  and  salt. 

Oyster  Soup.     No.  2. 

1  can  oysters. 

y2  cup  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

A  little  salt. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  put  it  in  a  porce- 
lain kettle,  to  which  add  an  equal  quantity  of  water.  Mix 
butter  and  flour  and  stir  in  when  the  liquor  boils.  Last 
of  all,  pour  in  the  oysters  and  dish  as  soon  as  they  reach 
the  boiling  point.  Many  persons  prefer  a  cup  of  cream 
or  milk  in  addition. 

Cove  oysters  cooked  in  this  way  are  a  very  good  substi- 
tute for  fresh  ones. 

Clam  Soup 

1  quart  clams. 

1  small  piece  of  salt  pork. 

i  large,  or  two  small  onions. 

2  quarts  of  water. 


20  FISH      SOUPS. 

i  quart  raw  potatoes,  sliced. 

i  tablespoonful  flour. 

i  pint  of  milk. 

Butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Cut  the  pork  in  small  squares  and  fry  a  light  brown. 
Add  onions  cut  very  fine,  and  cook  about  ten  minutes. 
Then  put  in  the  water  and  potatoes  and  let  it  boil,  then 
add  the  clams.  Mix  the  flour  with  milk,  pour  into  the 
soup,  and  let  it  boil  about  five  minutes. 

Lobster  Soup. 

i  large,  or  2  small  lobsters. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

1  pint  of  water. 

1  pound  of  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

Pick  all  the  meat  from  the  shell  and  chop  fine;  scald 
the  milk  and  water,  then  add  the  lobster,  butter,  and  flour. 
Season  with  salt  and  red  pepper.  Boil  ten  minutes  and 
serve  hot. 

Cat-Fish  Soup. 

6  cat-fish,  in  average  weight  y2  pound  apiece. 
%  pound  salt  pork. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  head  of  celery,  or  small  bag  of  celery  seed. 

Skin  and  clean  the  fish  and  cut  them  up.  Chop  the 
pork  into  small  pieces.  Put  these  together  into  the  pot, 
with  two  quarts  of  water,  chopped  sweet  herbs,  and  the 
celery -seasoning.  Boil  for  an  hour,  or  until  fish  and  pork 
are  in  rags,  and  strain,  if  you  desire  a  regular  soup  for 
first  course.  Return  to  the  saucepan  and  add  the  milk, 
which  should  be  already  hot.  Next  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
froth,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil 
up  once,  and  serve  with  croutons. 


FISH 


Purchase  fish  which  have  just  been  caught;  of  this  you 
can  judge  by  their  being  hard  under  the  pressure  of  the 
finger.  Fish  soon  lose  their  best  flavor,  and  a  few  hours 
make  a  wide  difference  in  the  taste  of  some  sorts.  Cod 
are  best  in  cold  weather;  mackerel  in  August,  September 
and  October;  halibut  in  May  and  June.  Oysters  are 
good  from  September  to  April;  but  are  not  healthy  from 
the  first  of  May  to  the  last  of  August.  Lobsters  are  best 
at  the  season  when  oysters  are  not  good.  Pond  fish 
should  be  soaked  in  strong  salt  and  water  to  take  out  the 
earthy  taste.  Fish  may  be  kept  good  several  days,  if 
frozen.  All  large  fish  need  to  be  soaked  in  tepid  water 
before  being  cleaned;  which  should  be  done  with  great 
care,  all  scales  and  shiny  substance  being  removed  with  a 
knife. 

Boiled  Codfish.     {Fresh.) 

Lay  the  fish  in  cold  water,  slightly  salted,  for  half  an 
hour  before  it  is  time  to  cook  it.  Wipe  it  dry  and  put  it 
into  the  fish-kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  in  which 
a  little  salt  has  been  dissolved.  Let  it  boil  quite  briskly. 
A  piece  of  cod  weighing  three  pounds  will  cook  in  a  half 
hour  from  the  time  the  water  fairly  boils,  if  put  in 
without  a  cloth.  A  better  plan  is,  after  wiping  the  fish,  to 
wrap  it  in  a  clean  linen  cloth,  which  should  be  dredged 
with  flour  to  prevent  sticking.  Sew  up  the  edges,  so  as  to 
envelope  the  fish  entirely,  but  have  only  one  thickness 
over  any  part.  Fish  cooked  this  way  will  require  twice  as 
long  to  boil  as  when  put  into  the  water  without  any  cov- 
ering; but  the  flavor  is  better  preserved,  and  when  un- 


22  FISH. 

wrapped,  it  will  not  present  the  crumbling  grain,  that  dis- 
figures most  boiled  fish. 

Rock-Fish. 

Rock-fish  and  river-bass  can  be  nicely  cooked  in  the 
same  way  as  codfish.  It  is  not  necessary  to  boil  them  as 
long. 

Boiled  Codfish.     {Salt) 

The  fish  should  be  put  in  lukewarm  water  and  soaked 
over  night.  Change  the  water  once  during  the  evening. 
In  the  morning  change  again,  and  wash  off  all  the  salt. 
An  hour  or  more  before  dinner  time,  take  it  out  and  put 
in  ice-water,  which  will  make  it  firm  and  hard.  Set  it  over 
the  fire  in  lukewarm  water,  sufficient  to  cover,  and  boil 
a  half  hour.  Drain  it  well,  lay  in  a  hot  dish  and  pour 
over  drawn  butter,  in  which  hard-boiled  eggs  have  been 
cut  up. 

Codfish  Sounds  and  Tongues. 

Soak  them  over  night,  wash,  scrape,  and  boil  them  gently 
a  short  time,  in  milk  and  water.  To  be  eaten  with  drawn 
butter.  If  fresh,  wash  and  dry  them  with  a  cloth;  dip 
them  in  corn  meal,  and  fry  with  a  little  salt  pork. 

Salt  Codfish  and  Eggs. 

Prepare  the  fish  as  for  balls. 

i  pint  rich  sweet  milk. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

A  little  chopped  parsley. 

Pepper. 

Heat  the  milk  to  near  boiling  and  gradually  stir  into  it 
the  eggs,  butter,  parsley  and  finally  the  fish.  Boil  up  af- 
ter the  fish  has  been  stirred  in  and  then  pour  it  over  but- 
tered toast  in  a  deep  dish. 


FISH.  33 

Broiled  Fish.     {Fresh  or  Salt) 

Wash  and  drain  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  lay 
with  the  inside  down  upon  the  gridiron,  and  broil  over 
bright  coals.  When  a  light  brown,  turn  for  a  moment  on 
the  other  side,  then  take  up  and  spread  with  butter.  Serve 
at  once. 

Codfish  and  Potato  Stew. 

Soak,  boil  and  pick  the  fish,  if  salt,  as  for  fish-balls.  If 
fresh,  boil,  and  pick  into  bits.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
mashed  potatoes,  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
milk  enough  to  make  it  very  soft.  Put  into  a  skillet,  and 
add  a  very  little  boiling  water  to  keep  it  from  burning. 
Turn  and  toss  constantly  until  it  is  smoking  hot  but  not 
dry;  add  pepper  and  parsley,  and  dish. 

Codfish  Balls. 

Chop  the  cold  boiled  fish  very  fine.  Add  one-half  as 
much  more  mashed  potatoes  as  fish.  Mix  the  potatoes 
and  fish  together  and  work  into  a  stiff  batter,  adding  a 
lump  of  butter,  and  sweet  milk,  and  if  you  want  to  have 
them  very  nice,  a  beaten  egg.  Flour  your  hands,  and 
make  them  into  balls  or  cakes.  Drop  them  into  hot  but- 
ter or  lard,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown;  or  melt  enough  lard 
or  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  cook  them  until  they  are 
well  browned,  taking  care  to  use  enough  lard  or  butter,  to 
prevent  their  sticking  to  the  pan. 

Salt  Mackerel. 

Put  to  soak  over  night  as  many  as  needed,  in  plenty  of 
water;  in  the  morning  drain  them  out,  put  into  a  skillet 
and  partly  cover  with  hot  water;  let  them  stand  on  top  of 
the  stove,  cooking  slowly  (much  boiling  toughens),  for 
about  five  minutes.  Pour  off  the  water,  leaving  it  dry; 
melt  cream  and  butter  together  and  pour  over.  If  the 
fish  is  No.  1,  it  will  pay  for  the  trouble. 


FISH. 


Broiled  Fresh  Mackerel. 

Open  it  down  the  back;  wash,  and  sprinkle  salt  over, 
and  let  it  lie  for  an  hour.  Grease  the  gridiron.  Lay  the 
skin  side  down  first.  The  fire  should  not  be  hot  enough 
to  scorch;  turn  once  or  twice,  and  allow  fifteen  minutes 
to  broil;  lay  on  a  hot  dish  and  put  on  shavings  of  butter. 
The  wire  gridirons  are  most  convenient  for  broiling  fish, 
as  they  are  turned  without  using  a  knife  and  fork. 

Fish  Chowder.     No.  i. 

Take  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips,  and  soak  in 
hot  water  five  minutes.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pot  with 
a  layer  of  this.  Cut  four  pounds  of  cod  or  sea-bass  into 
pieces  two  inches  square,  and  lay  enough  of  these  on  the 
pork  to  cover  it.  Follow  with  a  layer  of  chopped  onions, 
a  little  parsley,  summer  savory  and  pepper.  Then  a  layer 
of  split  Boston,  or  butter,  or  whole  cream  crackers,  which 
have  been  soaked  in  warm  water  until  moist  through,  but 
not  ready  to  break.  Above  this  put  a  layer  of  pork,  and 
repeat  the  order  given  above,  until  your  materials  are  ex- 
hausted. Let  the  topmost  layer  be  buttered  crackers,  well 
soaked.  Put  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  all  barely. 
Cover  the  pot,  stew  gently  for  an  hour,  watching  that  the 
water  does  not  sink  too  low.  Should  it  leave  the  upper 
layer  exposed,  replenish  carefully  with  boiling  water. 
When  the  chowder  is  done  thoroughly,  take  out  with  a 
perforated  skimmer  and  put  into  a  tureen.  Thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  about  the  same 
quantity  of  butter.     Boil  up  and  pour  over  the  chowder. 

Fish  Chowder.     No.  2. 

Take  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  and  fry  brown;  leave  the 
fat  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Put  in  a  layer  of  fried 
pork,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  a  layer  of  fish,  layer  of 
crackers;  if  Boston  crackers  split  them.  Season  each 
round  of  layers  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  the  kettle  in 
this  way;  on  the  top  place  small  pieces  of  butter,  and 


FISH  25 

water  sufficient  to  keep  from  burning.  Cook  slowly  for 
one  hour  and  a  half.  A  saucer  put  in  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle  will  prevent  it  sticking  to  the  bottom.  If  onions 
are  used  for  seasoning,  two  or  three  are  sufficient,  slice, 
and  put  in  with  the  other  seasoning. 

Broiled  Salmon,  or  Steak. 

Cut  it  in  slices  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  dry  it  in  a 
clean  cloth,  salt  it,  and  lay  it  upon  a  hot  gridiron,  the  bars 
having  been  rubbed  with  lard  or  drippings.  It  cooks  very 
well  in  a  stove  oven,  laid  in  a  dripping-pan. 

Boiled  Salmon. 

Clean  a  salmon  in  salt  and  water.  Allow  twenty  min- 
utes for  boiling  every  pound.  Wrap  it  in  a  floured  cloth, 
and  lay  it  in  the  kettle  while  the  water  is  cold.  Make  the 
water  very  salt;  skim  it  well;  in  this  respect  it  requires 
more  care  than  any  other  fish.  Serve  it  with  drawn  but- 
ter and  parsley.  If  salmon  is  not  thoroughly  cooked  it  is 
unhealthy.  When  a  piece  of  boiled  fresh  fish  of  any  kind 
is  left  of  dinner,  it  is  a  very  good  way  to  lay  it  in  a  deep 
dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  little  vinegar,  with  catsup,  and 
add  pepper,  or  any  other  spice  which  is  preferred. 

Baked  Salmon. 

Wash  and  wipe  dry,  and  rub  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Lay  the  fish  upon  a  grating  set  over  your  baking  pan,  and 
roast  or  bake,  basting  it  freely  with  butter,  and,  toward 
the  last,  with  its  own  drippings  only.  Should  it  brown 
too  fast,  cover  the  top  with  a  sheet  of  white  paper  until 
the  whole  is  cooked.  When  it  is  done,  transfer  to  a  hot 
dish  and  cover  closely,  and  add  to  the  gravy  a  little  hot 
water  thickened  with  arrow-root,  rice,  or  wheat  flour,  wet 
first  with  cold  water;  a  great  spoonful  of  tomato  sauce, 
and  the  iuice  of  a  lemon. 

Salmon  Trout.     {Baked.) 

Clean,  wash  and  wipe  the  fish;  lay  at  full  length  in  a 
baking  pan,  with  water  enough  to  keep  from  scorching, 


26  FISH. 

add  a  very  little  salt,  if  needed.  If  the  fish  is  large,  cut 
across  the  back  with  a  sharp  knife,  a  few  times.  Baste 
often  with  butter  and  water,  and  bake  slowly.  When  the 
fish  is  done,  have  ready  a  cup  of  rich  cream,  diluted  with 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  in  which  you  have  stirred 
two  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley. Heat  this  in  a  vessel  set  within  another  vessel  of 
boiling  water;  add  the  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  and 
boil  up  to  thicken.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  trout  when 
ready  for  the  table. 

Boiled  Salmon  Trout. 

Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  trout;  envelope  in  a  thin  cloth 
fitted  neatly  to  the  shape  of  the  fish,  lay  within  a  fish- 
kettle,  cover  with  cold,  salted  water,  and  boil  gently  a  half 
hour,  or  longer,  according  to  the  size.  When  done, 
unwrap  and  lay  in  a  hot  dish.  Pour  around  it  a  cream 
sauce  and  serve. 

Brook  Trout. 

Clean,  wash  and  wipe  the  fish;  roll  in  flour  or  corn  meal, 
and  fry  in  hot  butter  or  a  mixture  of  lard  and  butter.' 
Fry  them  quickly  to  a  light  brown.  If  lard  is  used  to  fry 
them  in,  they  should  be  seasoned  with  a  little  salt  when 
done.  Perch,  White  Fish,  Pickerel  and  other  small  fish 
are  cooked  as  above,  except  that  they  should  be  salted 
when  rolled  in  the  flour  or  meal. 

Cat-Fish.     (Fried.) 

Skin,  clean  and  remove  the  heads.  Sprinkle  well  with 
salt  an  hour  or  more  before  ready  to  cook.  Have  ready 
a  quantity  of  powdered  cracker,  and  two  or  three  eggs 
beaten  to  a  froth.  First,  dip  the  fish  in  the  egg  and  then 
into  the  powdered  cracker  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings. 

Boiled  Shad.     (Fresh.) 

A  roe-shad  is  best  for  boiling.  Clean,  wash  and  wipe 
the  fish.     Cleanse  the  roes,  and  season  both  eggs  and  fish 


FISH.  27 

with  salt;  wrap  in  separate  cloths,  and  put  in  the  kettle. 
Cover  with  water,  salted,  and  boil  from  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  according  to  size.  Serve  with  a  gravy 
of  drawn  butter  mingled  with  chopped  egg. 

Boiled  Shad.     {Salt.) 

Soak  the  fish  several  hours  in  warm  water  (seven  is  not 
too  much),  changing  it  several  times.  Wipe  off  all  the 
salt,  and  put  it  in  ice-water  for  an  hour.  Put  it  in  the 
kettle,  with  fresh  water  enough  to  cover,  and  boil  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes,  according  to  size.  When  done,  place 
a  large  lump  of  butter  on  the  fish,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

Fried  Shad. 

Clean,  wash  and  wipe  the  shad,  remove  the  head,  tail 
and  fins;  split  it  open,  and  cut  each  side  into  four  pieces. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper;  dredge  with  flour  or  corn- 
meal.  Have  ready  in  the  frying-pan  hot  lard,  or  drippings; 
put  in  the  fish  and  fry  until  brown.  If  it  is  a  roe  shad, 
fry  the  roe  in  the  same  way  as  the  fish. 

Baked  Shad. 

Only  a  large  shad  should  be  baked.  Clean,  wash  and 
wipe  the  fish,  and  make  a  stuffing  of  grated  bread  crumbs, 
softened  in  sweet  milk;  add  a  little  butter,  salt,  pepper 
and  sweet  herbs,  moistened  with  a  beaten  egg.  Fill  the 
shad  with  the  stuffing  and  sew  it  up.  Put  a  cupful  of 
water  in  the  baking-pan  to  prevent  scorching,  and  bake 
one  hour.  Baste  frequently  with  butter  and  water.  When 
done,  make  a  gravy  with  the  drippings,  adding  more  water; 
thicken  and  season  to  taste.  Turn  the  gravy  over  the  fish, 
or  serve  from  sauce  boat.  Take  out  the  thread  with  which 
the  fish  was  sewed  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Broiled  Shad.     {Fresh.) 

Wfash,  wipe  and  split  the  fish.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  lay  upon  a  buttered  gridiron  inside  downward. 
Turn  the  fish  when  the  lower  side  is  brown.     A  medium 


28  FISH. 

sized  shad  will  be  done  in  about  twenty  minutes.     Lay  in 
a  hot  dish  and  spread  a  good  piece  of  butter  on  the  fish. 

Broiled  Shad.     {Salt.) 

Lay  in  lukewarm  water  and  soak  over  night.     In  the 
morning  lay  it  in  ice  cold  water  for  a  half  hour. 
Wipe  and  broil  in  the  same  manner  as  fresh  shad. 

Baked  Halibut. 

A  piece  weighing  five  or  six  pounds  is  large  enough  for 
baking.  Lay  it  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours.  Score 
the  outer  skin  and  put  it  in  the  baking-pan  in  quite  a  hot 
oven,  basting  it  frequently  with  butter  and  water,  and  bake 
an  hour  or  until  a  fork  will  penetrate  it  easily.  Make  a 
gravy  from  the  drippings,  using  additional  water,  a  little 
butter,  and  flour  to  thicken.  Serve  the  gravy  in  a  sauce 
boat. 

Boiled  Halibut. 

Four  or  five  pounds  of  halibut  is  sufficient  to  boil  for 
an  ordinary  family.  Lay  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  a  half 
hour.  Wipe  dry  and  cut  the  skin  in  squares.  Put  in 
the  kettle  with  cold  water  (salted)  enough  to  cover  it,  and 
boil  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  piece.  Drain  and  serve  with  egg  sauce,  or 
drawn  butter  poured  on  the  fish,  or  in  a  sauce  boat. 

The  remnants  of  the  fish  left  over,  can  with  the  sauce 
and  mashed  potato,  be  warmed  up  together  for  breakfast. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Halibut  Steak. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  steak  dry.  Dip  each  steak,  after 
salting,  into  beaten  egg  and  then  in  fine  pounded  cracker; 
then  fry  in  hot  fat  or  lard.  Or  the  steak  can  be  broiled 
upon  a  buttered  gridiron;  season  first  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; when  done  butter  well.  Lay  in  a  hot  dish  covered 
closely. 


FISH.  29 

Smelts. 

Soak  smelts  a  little  while  in  warm  water;  scrape  them, 
and  cut  the  heads  so  far  that  you  can  gently  pull  them  off, 
and  thus  draw  out  the  dark  vein  that  runs  through  the 
body  ;  then  rinse  and  lay  them  into  a  dry  cloth  while  you 
fry  two  or  three  slices  of  salt  pork  crisp.  Dip  the  smelts 
into  a  plate  of  fine  Indian  meal,  and  fry  them  brown.  If 
you  fry  them  in  lard  or  drippings,  sprinkle  them  with  salt 
when  nearly  done,  as  they  will  not  brown  as  well  if  the 
salt  is  put  on  at  first. 

Stewed  Eels. 

An  eel  weighing  a  pound  is  better  than  one  that  weighs 
three.  Skin  and  clean,  carefully  extracting  all  the  fat 
from  the  inside.  Cut  into  lengths  of  an  inch  and  a  half; 
put  into  a  sauce-pan,  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
them;  throw  in  a  little  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  stew 
slowly  closely  covered  for  at  least  one  hour.  Add,  at  the 
last,  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little  flour  wet  with 
cold  water,  also  pepper.     Serve  in  a  deep  dish. 

Fried  Eels. 

Prepare  as  for  stewing;  roll  in  flour  and  fry,  in  hot 
lard  or  drippings,  to  a  light  brown. 


SHELL-FISH. 

To    Open    Clams. 

After  washing  them  carefully,  pour  boiling  water  over, 
and  let  them  stand  awhile.     The  shells  will  open  easily. 

Boiled   Clams. 

To  boil  clams,  wash  them  from  the  loose  sand,  put  but 
very  little  water  in  the  pot;  as  soon  as  the  shells  open 
they  are  done  ;  take  them  out,  wash  each  one  carefully 
in  the  liquor,  cut  off  the  black  portions,  lay  them  in  a 
sauce-pan  with  some  of  the  liquor,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  with  a  little  pepper  and  vinegar;  heat  scalding 
hot  and  serve. 

Clam  Chowder.     (Canned  Clams.)     No.  i. 

Take  two  or  three  slices  of  salt  pork,  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  fry  to  a  crisp;  slice  six  or  eight  good-sized  po- 
tatoes, and  as  many  onions;  take  a  large  iron  pot  and  put 
into  it  a  little  of  the  pork  and  of  the  fat;  then  a  layer  of 
potatoes;  then  a  layer  of  onions;  then  pepper,  salt  and 
flour;  then  a  layer  of  pork  again,  and  repeat  layer  upon 
layer  until  the  whole  is  arranged,  then  add  hot  water  suf- 
ficiently to  cover  the  whole,  and  let  it  cook  slowly.  When 
nearly  done,  add  a  half  pound  of  butter,  one  quart  of 
milk,  and  the  canned  clams.  Cook  until  done,  and  just 
before  serving,  add  a  few  large,  hard  crackers. 

Clam  Chowder.     No.  2. 

Fry  five  or  six  slices  of  fat  pork  crisp,  and  chop  to 
pieces.  Sprinkle  some  of  these  in  the  bottom  of  a  pot; 
lay  upon  them  a  stratum  of  clams;  sprinkle  with  pepper 


SHELL   FISH.  3? 

and  salt,  and  scatter  bits  of  butter  profusely  over  all;  next 
have  a  layer  of  chopped  onions,  then  one  of  small  crack- 
ers, split  and  moistened  with  warm  milk.  On  these  pour 
a  little  of  the  fat  left  in  the  pan  after  the  pork  is  fried,, 
and  then  comes  a  new  round  of  pork,  clams,  onions,  etc. 
Proceed  in  this  order  until  the  pot  is  nearly  full,  when, 
cover  with  water  and  stew  slowly,  the  pot  closely  covered, 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Drain  off  the  liquor  that 
will  flow  freely,  and  when  you  have  turned  the  chowder 
into  the  tureen,  return  the  gravy  to  the  pot.  Thicken 
with  flour,  or  better  still,  pounded  crackers;  add  a  glass 
of  wine,  some  catsup,  and  spiced  sauce;  boil  up  and  pour 
over  the  contents  of  the  tureen. 

Lobsters.     {To  select,  and  open.) 

Buy  those  that  have  been  boiled  but  a  few  hours.  The 
heaviest,  whether  large  or  small,  are  best.  Lobsters  are 
sweet  and  tender  early  in  the  spring,  and  are  good  until 
September.  In  opening  them,  care  must  be  taken  to  re- 
move the  poisonous  part;  this  lies  in  the  head,  all  of 
which  must  be  thrown  away,  as  well  as  the  vein  which 
passes  from  it  through  the  body;  all  the  other  parts  are 
good.  Break  the  shells  with  a  hammer,  and  cut  open  the 
body  on  the  under  side  with  a  sharp  knife.  Carefully  ex- 
amine the  tomalley,  or  green  fat,  to  see  that  there  is  none 
of  the  poison  vein  in  it.  If  you  are  going  to  stew  the 
lobster  or  make  salad,  save  the  liquor  to  mix  with  the 
meat. 

Lobster.     {To  Serve.) 

Prepare  the  lobster  as  above.  Put  it  on  a  platter,  the 
meat  from  the  body  in  the  center,  and  that  of  the  large 
claws  at  each  end  of  the  dish.  Arrange  some  of  the 
small  claws  around  the  edge.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  vinegar,  mustard,  and  pepper. 

Oyster  Fritters. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters.     Then  take, 
i  cup  of  the  liquor, 
i  cup  of  milk. 


£2  SHELL    FISH. 

3  eggs. 

A  little  salt. 

Flour  enough  for  a  thin  batter. 

Mix  all  together,  and  stir  the  oysters  in  the  batter. 
Have  very  hot  in  the  frying-pan  a  few  spoonfuls  of  lard, 
and  drop  the  oyster  batter  in  by  the  spoonful.  When 
cooked  to  a  light  brown,  they  must  be  taken  up  and 
served  hot. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Line  small  patty-pans  with  a  nice  crust.  When  cool, 
turn  them  out  upon  a  dish.  Stew  a  pint  of  large  oysters 
one  or  two  minutes  in  their  own  liquor,  with  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  two  blades  of  mace,  and  a  little 
lemon-juice.  Sprinkle  in  a  little  flour;  take  them  up,  and 
when  they  are  cool,  put  two  or  three  oysters  in  each  puff 
and  serve.  If  the  patties  are  to  be  eaten  hot,  stew  as 
above,  and  bake  covers  of  paste  on  tins;  put  the  oysters 
hot,  into  the  puffs,  and  place  over  them  the  covers,  fresh 
from  the  oven,  and  serve. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Lay  them  in  a  cloth  a  few  minutes  to  dry  them;  then 
dip  each  one  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  into  sifted  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  just  enough  fat  to  brown  them.  Put 
pepper  and  salt  on  them  before  you  turn  them  over. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Put  a  layer  of  crushed  crackers  in  the  bottom  of  a  but- 
tered pudding-dish,  wetting  the  layer  with  slightly  warmed 
oyster-liquor  and  milk.  Next,  place  a  layer  of  oysters, 
sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt;  lay  pieces  of  butter  upon 
them,  then  put  another  layer  of  crumbs,  and  so  on  until 
the  dish  is  full.  Have  top  layer  of  crumbs  thicker  than 
rest,  and  beat  an  egg  into  milk,  poured  over  them.  Stick 
pieces  of  butter  thickly  over  it;  cover  the  dish,  and  bake 
a  half  hour. 


shell  fish.  3.3 

Oyster  Pie. 

Roll  out  a  nice  puff-paste,  a  little  thicker  than  for  a 
fruit  pie,  for  the  top  crust,  and  about  the  usual  thickness 
for  the  lower.  Line  a  pudding  dish  with  the  crust,  and 
fill  it  with  crackers  or  bread  crust,  to  keep  the  upper  crust 
in  place.  Cover  the  dish  (having  the  edges  well  buttered) 
with  the  upper  crust  pressed  down  hard  to  prevent  it 
curling  up,  and  bake.  Cook  the  oysters  as  for  a  stew,  five 
minutes,  after  which  add  two  eggs  and  a  spoonful  of  fine 
rolled  cracker.  Prepare  the  crust  long  enough  before- 
hand that  the  oysters  will  be  done  when  the  crust  is  baked. 
Remove  the  crust,  take  out  the  bread  crusts,  turn  in  the 
hot  oysters  and  replace  the  cover.     Serve  hot. 

Or, 

Some  may  prefer  this  method.  Cover  a  deep  plate 
with  puff  paste;  put  an  extra  layer  round  the  edge  of  the 
plate,  and  bake  nicely.  When  quite  done,  fill  the  pie  with 
oysters;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  sprinkle  a 
little  flour  over  it,  and  cover  with  a  thin  crust  of  puff- 
paste.  When  the  upper  crust  is  done,  the  oysters  should 
be.  Serve  immediately,  as  the  crust  soon  absorbs  the 
gravy. 

Raw  Oysters. 

Wash  the  shells  very  thoroughly,  and  wipe  them  dry. 
Open  them,  and  remove  the  upper  shell,  but  leave  the 
under  shell  with  the  oyster  in  it.  Place  the  oysters  thus 
prepared  on  a  dish,  with  one  or  two  lemons  cut  in  halves, 
and  serve.  They  should  be  eaten  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
lemon-juice,  or  vinegar. 

Pickled  Oysters. 

100  large  oysters. 

1  pint  white  wine  vinegar. 

1  dozen  blades  of  mace. 

2  dozen  whole  cloves. 

5 


34  SHELL  FISH. 

2  dozen  whole  black  peppers. 

i  large  red  pepper,  broken  in  bits. 

Put  oysters,  liquor  and  all,  into  a  porcelain  kettle.  Salt 
to  taste.  Heat  slowly  until  the  oysters  are  very  hot,  but 
not  to  boiling.  Take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skim- 
mer and  set  aside  to  cool.  Add  the  vinegar  and  spices 
to  the  liquor  which  remains  in  the  kettle.  Boil  up  fairly 
and  when  the  oysters  are  almost  cold,  pour  over  them 
scalding  hot.  Cover  the  jar  in  which  they  are,  and  put 
away  in  a  cool  place.  Next  day  put  the  pickled  oysters 
into  glass  cans  with  tight  tops.  Keep  in  the  dark  and 
where  they  are  not  liable  to  become  heated.  If  you  open 
a  can,  use  as  soon  as  practicable. 

Oyster  Omelet. 

i  dozen  oysters,  if  large;  2  dozen  if  small. 

1  cup  of  milk. 

1  ^  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

6  eggs. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Chop  the  oysters  very  fine.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
separately;  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Melt  three  spoon- 
fuls of  butter  in  the  frying-pan,  while  mixing  the  omelet. 
Stir  the  milk,  yolks  and  seasoning  well  together  in  a  dish, 
and  then  gradually  stir  the  chopped  oysters  into  the  sea- 
soned milk.  After  they  are  well  mixed  pour  in  one  and 
a  half  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and  lastly  whip  in  the 
whites  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible.  Put  the  omelet  in- 
to the  frying-pan  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  stiffen,  slip  a 
broad-bladed  knife  around  the  edges,  and  lift  it,  that  the 
butter  may  reach  every  part.  The  omelet  should  not  be 
stirred.  When  it  is  stiff  in  the  center,  turn  it  into  a  hot 
dish,  with  the  brown  side  uppermost. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES.  $$ 


MEAT. 


Ox  beef  is  the  best;  the  next  best  is  the  flesh  of  the 
heifer;  and  both  are  in  perfection  during  the  first  three 
months  of  the  year.  The  lean  of  good  beef  is  red  and 
of  a  fine  grain,  and  the  fat  is  white.  The  flesh  of  dis- 
eased animals  is  sometimes  sold  in  city  markets;  therefore 
never  buy  beef,  the  fat  of  which  is  very  yellow,  nor  mut- 
ton and  lamb  unless  the  fat  is  white.  Yellow  fat  indicates 
that  the  meat  is  not  healthy.  The  best  roasting  pieces  of 
beef  are  the  sirloin;  the  second  cut  in  the  fore  quarter; 
and  the  rump.  If  you  buy  a  sirloin  for  a  family  of  six 
or  eight,  get  eight  or  ten  pounds.  Cut  off  the  thin  end 
in  which  there  is  no  bone;  it  is  very  good  corned,  and  not 
good  roasted.  The  roasting-piece  will  still  be  large 
enough  for  the  family  dinner,  and  the  corned  piece  will 
do  for  another  day.  The  back  part  of  the  rump  is  a  con- 
venient and  economical  piece,  especially  for  a  small  family. 
It  is  a  long  and  narrow  piece,  weighing  about  ten  pounds, 
and  contains  less  bone  and  fat,  than  any  other,  equally 
good,  in  the  ox.  The  thickest  end  affords  nice  steaks, 
and  next  to  them  is  a  good  roasting  piece,  and  the  thin- 
nest end,  which  contains  the  bone,  is  good  corned  or  for 
a  soup.  The  whole  piece  is  excellent  for  roasting,  in  case 
so  large  a  one  is  needed. .  The  spring  is  the  best  season 
for  mutton.  Select  that  which  is  not  very  large;  it  should 
be  of  a  good  red  and  white  color,  and  fine  grained.  Lamb 
is  best  in  July  and  August;  veal  is  best  in  the  spring;  it 
should  look  white  and  be  fat;  the  breast  is  nice  stuffed; 
the  loin  should  be  roasted.  The  leg  is  an  economical 
piece,  as  you  can  take  off  cutlets  from  the  large  end,  stuff 
and  roast  the  center,  and  make  broth  of  the  shank. 
Roasting  pieces  of  all  kinds  of  ribbed  meat,  except  beef 


MEATS.  37 

should  be  jointed  by  the  butcher,  else  the  carving  will  be 
very  difficult.  Meat  will  keep  in  an  ice-house,  or  a  good 
refrigerator,  several  days  in  hot  weather;  if  you  have  nei- 
ther, take  your  meat  the  moment  it  is  brought  in,  wipe  it 
dry  and  hang  it  in  the  cellar;  sprinkling  first  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt  over  it,  especially  the  parts  which  flies  are 
most  apt  to  visit;  in  mutton  and  lamb,  these  are  the  ten- 
derloin, and  the  large  end  of  the  leg.  The  pepper  and 
salt  will  also  tend  to  preserve  the  meat  from  taint.  You 
can  keep  meat  longer  by  wrapping  it  in  a  cloth,  and  lay- 
ing it  in  a  charcoal  bin,  with  a  shovel  of  coal  thrown  over 
it.  A  leg  of  mutton  will  keep  several  days  wrapped  in  a 
cloth  which  has  been  dipped  in  vinegar,  laid  upon  the 
ground  of  a  dry  cellar.  Meat  that  is  to  be  salted  for  im- 
mediate use,  should,  if  the  weather  is  cool,  be  hung  up  a 
day  or  two  first.  To  thaw  frozen  meat,  bring  it  over  night 
into  a  warm  room;  or  early  in  the  morning  lay  it  into  cold 
water.  If  meat  is  cooked  before  being  entirely  thawed, 
it  will  be  tough.  It  is  best  to  preserve  fowls  without  freez- 
ing; they  will  keep  very  well  packed  in  snow;  the  liver, 
etc.,  being  taken  out  and  laid  by  themselves  in  the  snow, 
and  the  body  filled  with  it. 

Directions  for  Boiling. 

Fresh  meat  should  be  put  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  and 
the  water  kept  boiling;  when  done,  leave  the  meat  in  the 
pot,  closely  covered,  until  cool.  Remove  the  scum  at  the 
first  boil,  from  all  meats.  All  salt  meats  should  be  put  on 
in  cold  water.  Ham  should  be  skinned  as  soon  as  it  is 
done.  Corned  beef  will  be  more  tender  if  allowed  to 
cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  Allow  twenty 
minutes  to  a  pound  of  fresh  meat;  but  a  little  more  time 
is  required  to  cook  a  hind  than  a  fore  quarter.  Salt  meat 
should  boil  longer  than  fresh;  allow  forty  minutes  for  ev- 
ery pound.  The  two  things  most  important  in  boiling 
meat,  are,  to  boil  it  gently,  and  to  skim  it  until  no  more 
froth  rises.  Have  a  spoon  and  dish  handy,  and  the  mo- 
ment the  froth  begins  to  rise,  skim  it  off.     If  the  water 


38  MEATS. 

boils  fast  before  you  begin  to  take  off  the  froth,  it  will  re- 
turn to  the  water,  adhere  to  the  meat,  and  make  it  look 
badly.  Some  persons  throw  a  handful  of  flour  into  the 
kettle  to  prevent  scum  from  adhering  to  the  meat.  If  the 
water  boils  away  so  that  the  meat  is  not  covered,  add  more, 
as  the  part  which  lies  above  the  water  will  have  a  dark 
appearance. 

Directions  for  Roasting  Meat. 

It  is  not  well  to  salt  meat  at  first,  as  salt  extracts  the 
juices.  In  roasting  all  meats,  the  art  depends  chiefly  on 
flouring  thoroughly,  basting  frequently,  and  turning  so 
often  as  not  to  allow  any  part  to  burn.  To  roast  in  a 
cooking-stove,  it  is  necessary  to  attend  carefully  to  the  fire, 
lest  the  meat  should  burn.  Lay  it  into  the  pan  with  three 
or  four  gills  of  water  in  it.  Turn  the  pan  around  often, 
that  all  the  parts  may  roast  equally.  When  it  is  about 
half  done,  flour  it  again,  turn  it  over  that  the  lower  side 
may  become  brown.  If  the  water  in  it  dries  away,  add 
a  little  hot  water.  Allow  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a 
pound  if  you  like  the  beef  rare,  more  if  you  prefer  it  done. 
For  gravy  remove  the  beef  to  a  dish,  skim  the  drippings, 
add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  stirred 
in  cold  water.     Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Beef  Steak.     No.  i. 

The  best  slices  are  cut  from  the  rump,  or  through  the 
sirloin.  The  round  is  seldom  tender  enough,  and  is  very 
good  cooked  in  other  ways.  Do  not  cut  your  slices  very 
thick.  Have  ready  a  good  bed  of  live  coals,  and  a  heated 
gridiron.  Turn  the  steaks  in  less  than  a  minute;  and 
turn  them  repeatedly.  If  the  fat  makes  a  blaze  under 
the  gridiron,  put  it  out  by  sprinkling  fine  salt  on  it. 
Steaks  will  broil  in  about  seven  minutes.  Have  ready  a 
hot  dish,  and  sprinkle  each  piece  with  salt,  and  a  little 
pepper;  lay  on  small  pieces  of  butter  and  cover  close. 
This  is  a  much  better  way  than  to  melt  the  butter  in  the 
dish  before  taking  up  the  meat.     Some  persons  keep  a 


MEATS.  39 

small  pair  of  tongs  on  purpose  to  turn  beef  steaks,  as  us- 
ing a  fork  wastes  the  juice.  Steaks  should  be  served  as 
hot  as  possible. 

Beef  Steak.     No.  2. 

Have  your  frying-pan  very  hot,  wipe  the  steak  dry, 
place  in  it,  and  cover  tightly.  Turn  frequently  and  keep 
covered.  When  done,  add  to  the  gravy  a  good  sized 
lump  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  over  the 
steak,  and  serve  hot.  If  your  meat  is  tough,  pound  well 
with  a  steak  mallet  on  both  sides. 

Tough  Beef  Steak. 

Set  a  large  kettle  on  the  stove  until  it  is  hot,  but  not  so 
as  to  scorch.  Put  in  the  beef,  turning  frequently,  until  it 
is  well  browned.  Then  pour  in  water,  about  a  pint  to  a 
pound  of  beef,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  about  a  half 
hour.  Take  out  the  beef,  season  the  soup  with  salt  and 
pepper,  catsup,  onions  and  tomato,  if  liked,  and  thicken 
with  a  little  browned  flour.  Chop  the  meat  fine,  season 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  on  slices  of  toast. 

Corned  Beef.     {Boiled.) 

Wash  the  meat  carefully.  Corned  beef  should  be  put 
in  cold  water  and  boiled  until  tender;  skim  often.  It  is 
not  too  much  to  allow  forty  minutes  for  every  pound,  af- 
ter it  has  begun  to  boil.  If  it  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  it  should 
be  put  away  in  some  flat-bottomed  dish,  with  a  weight 
over  it.     Let  it  stand  until  perfectly  cold,  and  slice  thin. 

Beef  Tongue. 

A  corned  tongue  may  be  put  to  boil  as  soon  as  washed; 
but  one  that  has  been  long  salted  should  be  soaked  over 
night.  A  smoked  tongue  should  be  well  washed,  then 
soaked  in  a  plenty  of  water  over  night.  All  tongues 
should  be  boiled  until  so  tender  that  a  fork  will  go  in  very 
easily.  This  will  require  from  three  to  five  hours,  accord- 
ing to  the  size.     When  they  begin  to  boil,  the  water  should 


40  MEATS. 

be  carefully  skimmed.  When  you  take  up  the  tongue, 
while  it  is  yet  hot,  remove  the  skin,  which  will  easily  pull 
off  with  the  aid  of  a  sharp  knife.  When  it  is  cold,  before 
sending  to  the  table,  trim  off  the  roots.  The  fat  on  the 
water  in  which  a  corned  tongue  is  boiled  is  nice  for  short- 
ening; that  from  a  smoked  tongue  must  be  put  in  the 
soap-grease. 

Dried  Beef. 

Dried  beef  is  commonly  served  by  shaving  off  thin 
shavings  or  chips  to  be  eaten  uncooked.  A  savory  dish 
may  be  made  by  putting  chips  of  the  beef  into  a  frying- 
pan  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Let  this 
set  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  to  soften  the  meat, 
then  drain  off  the  water,  and  put  into  the  pan  with  the 
bits  of  meat,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and'  a  little  pepper. 
Beat  an  egg,  or  more,  according  to  the  quantity  of  meat, 
and  pour  into  the  pan  with  the  chipped  meat.  Stir  to- 
gether for  a  minute  or  two,  until  the  egg  is  cooked.  Serve 
in  a  covered  dish. 

French  Method  for  Cooking  Beef. 

For  a  family  dinner  buy  several  pounds  of  solid  lean 
beef,  having  it  cut,  if  possible,  from  that  side  of  the 
round  where  the  flesh  is  thickest.  Do  not  have  it  in  steaks, 
but  thick  and  square.  Lard  it  very  fully  with  strips  of 
fat  salt  pork,  tie  it  with  a  small  cord  to  keep  it  in  shape, 
and  put  it  in  a  perfectly  tight,  covered  tin  pail.  Put  it  in 
without  water,  and  add  one  carrot  chopped,  one  half  slice 
of  onion  chopped,  a  little  celery  seed,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  sage  and  the  same  of  sweet  marjoram  and  thyme,  cover 
the  pail  in  such  a  way  as  to  entirely  exclude  the  air,  and 
put  it  in  an  iron  pot  of  water  and  let  it  boil  steadily.  If 
the  water  in  the  outside  vessel  boils  away  replenish  it  with 
hot  water  from  the  teakettle,  which  can  be  kept  at  hand 
for  the  purpose.  After  three  hours  open  the  pail  and 
turn  the  beef  the  other  side  up.  Add  salt  and  pepper 
and  fill  the  pail  nearly  to  the  top  with  raw  potatoes  cut  in 
thick   slices;  cover   again  and  boil  three   hours   longer. 


MEATS.  41 

Then  take  the  cord  off  the  meat  and  put  it  in  the  center 
of  a  large  flat  dish  and  surround  it  with  boiled  rice;  put 
the  potatoes  upon  the  rice  and  pour  over  all  the  seasoned 
extract  or  gravy  which  will  be  found  in  the  pail.  If  it  is 
inconvenient  to  have  the  range  occupied  so  long  by  the 
the  kettle,  set  the  pail  in  the  oven  and  the  result  will  be 
almost  equal.  In  that  case  it  will  only  require  five  hours 
cooking  instead  of  six.  It  seems  like  a  long  process,  but 
it  requires  very  little  care  or  watching,  and  if  once  suc- 
cessfully tried  it  is  sure  to  become  an  oft  repeated  family 
institution.  If  it  is  properly  prepared  no  one  flavor  pre- 
dominates. 

Beef  Liver. 

Cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  pour  over  them 
boiling  water  until  the  outside  turns  white;  remove  this 
white  outer  skin,  salt,  pepper,  and  flour  each  slice,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter,  turning  often.  When  done,  take 
from  the  frying-pan,  and  pour  into  it  a  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  made 
smooth  with  water;  boil  up  once,  pour  over  the  liver  and 
serve. 

Beef  Hash. 

Corned  beef  is  best  for  a  hash,  but  any  kind  can  be 
used.  Take  about  equal  quantities  of  meat  and  potato. 
Chop  the  meat  very  fine  and  add  the  mashed  potato;  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  a  good  sized  piece  of 
butter  in  the  frying-pan,  and  put  in  the  meat  and  potato 
with  a  cupful  of  milk.  Set  it  over  the  fire  for  a  few  min- 
utes, stirring  often  to  prevent  burning. 

If  you  prefer  you  can  mould  the  mixture  into  flat  cakes, 
dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  and  fry  in  hot  drippings. 

Meat   Pie. 

Take  pieces  of  meat,  either  steak  or  roast,  and  put  them 
into  water  and  cook  until  very  tender.     Line  a  pudding- 
dish  with  paste,  put  in  a  layer  of  the  meat,  and  season  as 
for  chicken  pie;    fill  the  dish.     A   chopped   onion   and 
6 


42  MEATS. 

sliced  parboiled  potatoes  can  be  added  if  desired.  Pour 
over  this  the  gravy  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked,  thicken 
with  a  little  flour  and  cover  with  a  crust.  Bake  until  the 
crusts  are  well  cooked.  Make  a  slit  in  the  upper  crust, 
before  baking,  for  the  steam  to  escape. 

Crust  for  Meat  Pie. 
i  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  lard. 
2^/2  cups  of  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and 
stirred  into  the  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar  sifted  in  the  dry  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Work  up  quickly  and  lightly,  and  do  not  get  too  stiff. 

Beef  Omelet. 

4  pounds  of  round  beef,  uncooked,  chopped  fine. 
6  eggs  beaten  together. 

5  or  6  soda  crackers  rolled  fine. 
A  little  butter  and  suet. 
Pepper  and  salt. 

Sage  if  you  choose;  make  two  loaves,  roll  in  cracker; 
bake  about  an  hour,  and  slice  when  cold. 

Beef  Croquettes. 

Chop  fine  some  cold  beef;  beat  two  eggs  and  mix  with 
the  meat  and  add  a  little  milk,  melted  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper.     Make  into  rolls  and  fry. 

Pickle  for  Beef,  Pork  and  Tongues. 

4  gallons  water. 

i  %  pounds  of  sugar,  or  molasses. 

2  ounces  saltpeter. 

6  pounds  salt. 

If  to  last  a  month  or  two,  this  quantity  of  salt  is  suffi- 
cient, if  over  summer,  nine  pounds  of  salt.  Boil  all  to- 
gether gently;  skim  and  let  cool.     Put  the  meat  in  the 


MEATS.  43 

vessel  in  which  it  is  to  stand.  Pour  the  pickle  on  the 
meat  until  it  is  covered.  Keep  the  meat  under  the  pickle 
with  a  stone.  Use  the  above  proportions  for  a  larger 
quantity  if  required.  This  is  sufficient  for  one  hundred 
pounds  of  beef. 

Beef.     (To  coj-ji.) 

To  each  gallon  of  cold  water,  put  one  quart  of  rock 
salt,  one  ounce  of  saltpeter  and  four  ounces  of  brown 
sugar  (it  need  not  be  boiled),  as  long  as  any  salt  remains 
undissolved,  the  meat  will  be  sweet.  If  any  scum  should 
rise,  scald  and  skim  well;  add  more  salt,  saltpeter  and 
sugar;  as  you  put  each  piece  of  meat  into  the  brine,  rub 
over  with  salt.  If  the  weather  is  hot,  gash  the  meat  to 
the  bone,  and  put  it  in  salt.  Put  a  flat,  stone  or  some 
weight  on  the  meat  to  keep  it  under  the  brine. 

Veal  Steak. 

This  should  be  thinner  than  beef-steak  and  should  be 
thoroughly  cooked.  Broil  upon  a  well-greased  gridiron, 
over  a  clear  fire;  turn  frequently  while  the  steaks  are  cook- 
ing. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Sprinkle  the  cutlets  with  pepper  and  salt.  Dip  them  in 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot 
drippings  or  lard.  For  gravy,  add  a  little  water,  thicken 
with  flour  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  in  a  sauce- 
boat.  Another  way  is,  to  rub  the  cutlets  in  melted  butter 
and  broil  on  a  gridiron  as  beef-steak,  and  butter  well  be- 
fore sending  to  the  table. 

Veal  Chops. 

Veal  chops  are  more  juicy  and  less  apt  to  be  tough 
than  cutlets.  Trim  as  in  mutton  chops,  and  fry  in  butter 
or  lard¥  Dip  the  chops  in  beaten  egg  and  fine  cracker 
crumbs.  The  gravy  is  made  in  the  same  way  as  for  cut- 
lets and  can  be  seasoned  with  parsley  or  any  other  season- 
ing desired. 


44  MEATS. 

Broiled  Veal. 

It  must  not  be  done  too  fast,  and  will  take  longer  than 
beef.  It  is  a  great  improvement  to  broil  pork  and  lay  be- 
tween the  slices  of  veal.  Lay  them  upon  the  meat  while 
it  is  broiling,  and  if  they  are  not  brown  when  the  veal  is 
done,  put  them  a  few  minutes  longer  on  the  gridiron.  If 
pork  is  not  used,  season  with  butter.  Add  pepper  and 
salt. 

Veal  Pie. 

Take  about  two  pounds  of  veal  from  the  loin,  fillet,  or 
any  odd  pieces  you  may  have.  Parboil  long  enough  to 
clear  of  the  bone,  cut  in  thin  even  slices.  Line  a  pud- 
ding-dish with  a  good  paste.  Put  a  layer  of  veal  in  the 
bottom,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Enrich  with  but- 
ter or  slices  of  salt  pork,  and  dredge  in  a  little  flour.  So 
proceed  until  all  is  in.  Pour  in  a  portion  of  the  water  in 
which  the  meat  was  boiled.  Cover  with  a  crust  and  cut  a 
little  hole  in  the  top  for  the  escape  of  steam.  Bake  one 
hour  and  a  half. 

Roast  Fillet  of  Veal. 

Veal  requires  more  time  for  roasting  than  any  other 
meat  except  pork.  It  is  scarcely  ever  done  too  much.  A 
leg  weighing  eight  or  nine  pounds  should  roast  three  hours. 
Prepare  a  stuffing  of  bread,  pepper,  salt  pork,  and  sweet 
marjoram;  make  deep  incisions  in  the  meat  and  fill  them 
with  it.  Fasten  the  fold  of  fat  which  is  usually  upon  the 
fillet  over  the  stuffed  incisions  with  a  skewer.  Roast  it 
slowly  at  first.  Put  into  the  dripping-pan  some  hot  water 
with  a  little  salt  in  it  or  some  of  the  stock.  When  the 
meat  has  roasted  about  an  hour,  flour  it  thickly,  and  skewer 
upon  it  four  or  five  slices  of  salt  pork;  after  the  flour  be- 
comes brown,  baste  the  veal  every  fifteen  minutes.  In 
cutting  the  incisions,  endeavor  to  make  them  wider  inside 
than  at  the  surface,  so  that  the  stuffing  may  not  fall  out 


MEATS.  45 

Veal  Pot  Pie. 

Take  the  neck,  the  shank,  and  almost  any  pieces  you 
may  have.  Boil  them  long  enough  to  skim  off  all  the 
froth.  Have  ready  a  kettle;  put  in  a  layer  of  meat,  then 
flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  little  butter  or  a  slice  or 
two  of  salt  pork,  as  your  choose.  Do  this  until  you  have 
laid  in  all  your  meat;  pour  in  enough  of  the  water  in  which 
the  veal  was  boiled  to  half  fill  the  kettle,  then  lay  on  a 
top  crust  which  has  been  rolled  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  make  an  incision  in  it  to  allow  the  escape  of  the  steam. 
Watch  that  it  does  not  burn,  and  pour  in  more  of  the 
water  through  the  hole  in  the  crust  if  necessary.  Boil  an 
hour  and  a  half.  The  objection  to  this  dish  is,  that  boiled 
crust  is  apt  to  be  heavy,  and  therefore  unhealthy;  but  if 
it  is  made  after  the  recipe  for  cream  tartar  biscuit,  it  will 
be  light. 

A  Loin  of  Veal. 

A  breast  or  a  loin  of  veal  should  be  basted  a  great 
many  times  and  roasted  thoroughly.  It  is  an  improve- 
ment to  put  on  slices  of  pork  as  in  cooking  the  leg.  Al- 
low two  hours  for  roasting;  more,  if  it  is  large.  Flour  it 
weH. 

Veal  Loaf. 

31^  pounds  raw  veal  (lean  and  fat). 
.  1  slice  salt  pork. 
6  small  crackers  rolled  fine. 
Piece  of  butter,  size  of  an  egg. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  pepper. 
1  tablespoonful  sage. 

3  tablespoonfuls  extract  celery. 

Chop  the  veal  fine,  and  mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly. 
Pack  tightly  in  a  deep  square  tin;  cover  with  bits  of  but- 
ter, and  sprinkle  fine  cracker-crumbs  over  the  top.     Cov- 


46  MEATS. 

er  with  another  tin.  Bake  two  hours,  uncover,  and  brown 
the  top.  A  nice  relish  for  tea,  and  should  be  sliced  thin 
when  cold. 

Veal  Omelet. 

4  pounds  lean  veal. 

i  pound  salt  pork,  chopped  fine. 

i  tablespoonful  salt. 

i  tablespoonful  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sage  or  thyme. 

4  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs. 

4  eggs  (beaten). 

Y2  pint  sweet  cream. 

Mix  the  eggs,  cream,  and  bread  crumbs  together,  then 
add  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  in  a  deep  dish  three 
hours  and  a  half;  put  small  pieces  of  butter  on  the  top 
before  baking.     When  done  turn  out  on  a  platter. 

Sweetbread.     {Fried?) 

Scald  in  salt  and  water,  take  out  the  stringy  parts;  then 
put  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes;  dry  in  a  towel;  dip  in 
egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  brown  in  butter;  when 
done  place  in  a  hot  dish.  Pour  into  the  pan  a  cup  of 
sweet  cream,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  parsley 
chopped  fine;  add  flour,  and  when  boiling  pour  over  the 
sweetbreads. 

Sweetbread.     (Broiled?) 

Parboil,  rub  them  well  with  butter,  and  broil  on  a  clean 
gridiron;  turn  them  often  and  now  and  then  roll  them 
over  in  a  plate  containing  hot  melted  butter,  to  prevent 
them  from  getting  hard  and  dry. 

Mutton  Stew. 

Take  three  or  four  pounds  of  meat;  cut  it  in  small 
squares,  crack  the  bones  and  remove  all  the  fat.  Put 
meat  and  bones  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  well,  and 
set  it  where  it  will  gradually  heat.     Cover  closely.     When 


MEATS.  47 

it  has  stewed  an  hour,  put  in  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork 
cut  in  strips,  a  chopped  onion,  and  some  pepper.  Cover 
and  stew  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Make  a  paste  like 
meat  pie  crust,  roll  and  cut  in  squares,  and  drop  in  the 
stew,  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Keep  closely  covered  after 
the  dumplings  are  put  in  or  they  will  be  heavy.  More 
seasoning,  such  as  parsley  and  thyme  can  be  added  when 
the  dumplings  are  added.  Finally  thicken  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  flour  broken  up  in  cold  milk,  and  boil  up 
once  more.  The  stew  is  greatly  improved  by  the  addition 
of  green  corn,  if  in  season,  which  should  be  added  an 
hour  before  it  is  taken  from  the  fire.  The  grains  from 
six  or  seven  ears,  cut  from  the  cob,  are  sufficient.  A  stew 
made  in  this  way  from  lamb,  is  even  better  than   mutton. 

Roast  Mutton. 

The  parts  roasted  are  the  shoulder,  saddle,  loin  and 
chine.  Wash  the  meat  well,  and  dry  it  with  a  cloth.  Put 
the  meat  on  with  a  little  water  (which  should  always  be 
done  for  roast  meats).  If  your  fire  is  hot,  allow  for  roast- 
ing twelve  minutes  to  each  pound  of  meat;  baste  with 
salt  and  water,  then  with  the  drippings;  thicken  the  gravy 
with  browned  flour. 

Broiled  Mutton,  or  Lamb  Chops. 

Have  the  leg  cut  into  steaks  at  the  market,  or  by  the 
butcher.  Have  the  slices  about  the  thickness  of  your 
finger;  separate  them  from  the  bone  neatly.  Dip  each  in 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  pounded  cracker,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or 
drippings.  If  the  fat  is  not  salt,  sprinkle  the  chops  with 
salt,  before  rolling  in  the  egg.     Serve  up  dry  and  hot. 

Or, 

The  egg  and  cracker  may  be  omitted,  then  broil  on  a 
gridiron  over  a  brisk  fire.  Salt,  pepper  and  butter  each 
chop  before  they  are  sent  to  the  table.  Lamb  chops  may 
be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


48  MEATS. 

Boned  Leg  of  Mutton. 

Have  the  bone  taken  out  of  a  nice,  fat  leg  of  mutton. 
Make  a  rich  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped  fine,  butter,  onions  chopped  fine,  a  little  sage,  a 
small  quantity  of  black  pepper,  some  pickled  pork,  cut  up. 
Fill  the  leg  with  this  forcemeat,  and  bake,  basting  often. 

Boiled  Mutton. 

Wash  a  leg  of  mutton  clean  and  wipe  dry.  Do  not 
leave  the  knuckle  and  shank  so  long  as  to  be  unshapely. 
Put  into  a  pot  with  hot  water  (salted)  enough  to  cover  it, 
and  boil  until  you  ascertain,  by  probing  with  a  fork,  that 
it  is  tender  in  the  thickest  part.  Skim  off  all  the  scum  as 
it  rises.  Allow  about  twelve  minutes  to  each  pound.  Take 
from  the  fire,  drain  perfectly  dry,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter.  If  you  wish  to  use  the  broth  for  soup,  put  in  very 
little  salt  while  boiling;  if  not,  salt  it  well,  and  boil  the 
meat  in  a  cloth. 

Mutton  Cutlets. 

Cut  the  cutlets  from  the  neck  and  trim  neatly.  The 
trimmings  and  bits  of  bone  may  be  used  for  gravy.  Lay 
them  in  melted  butter  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  tak- 
ing care  that  the  butter  does  not  harden.  Then  dip  each 
cutlet  in  beaten  egg  and  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  put  in 
the  dripping-pan  with  just  water  enough  to  prevent  them 
from  scorching.  Baste  often  with  butter  and  water,  and 
bake  quickly.  Put  the  bones  and  bits  of  meat  in  just 
enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  sufficiently 
long  to  extract  all  the  substance  from  them.  Strain,  sea-. 
son,  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour;  then  pour  it  over  the 
cutlets  when  ready  for  the  table. 


PORK. 

Lard. 

Leaf  lard  is  the  nicest  for  all  cooking  purposes.  Skin 
all  the  fat  that  is  to  be  tried  into  lard;  if  the  fat  is  not 
skinned  before  trying,  the  gluten  in  the  skin  will  make  the 
lard  impure  and  frothy.  Cut  the  leaves  into  small  pieces, 
put  them  in  a  clean  kettle  over  a  slow  fire,  or  in  a  larger 
vessel  of  water;  throw  in  a  little  salt  to  make  the  sedi- 
ment settle.  Great  care  must  be  taken  that  it  does  not 
burn,  for  that  will  spoil  the  whole.  A  teacupful  of  water 
added  before  it  becomes  hot  will  prevent  burning.  Dip 
off  the  fat  as  fast  as  it  liquefies  and  strain  it  through  a 
cloth;  when  all  is  strained  that  can  be  dipped  off,  squeeze 
the  remainder  by  itself  through  the  cloth.  If  the  cloth 
becomes  clogged  with  the  cold  fat,  dip  it  in  hot  water. 
Lard  keeps  much  longer  in  small  vessels  than  in  large. 
Bladders  tied  over  the  jars  are  the  best  protection;  next 
to  these,  paper,  and  outside  of  this,  cloths  dipped  in  the 
melted  lard.  To  use  up  the  refuse  pieces  of  fat,  take  the 
fat  to  which  the  small  intestines  are  attached  (not  the  large 
ones),  and  flabby  pieces  of  pork  not  good  for  salting;  try 
these  in  the  same  way  as  the  leaf  lard,  and  set  the  fat  thus 
obtained  where  it  will  freeze,  and  by  spring  the  strong 
taste  will  be  gone,  and  it  can  be  used  for  frying. 

Roast  Pig. 

It  should  not  be  more  than  a  month  old,  and  should  be 
killed  on  the  morning  of  the  day  it  is  to  be  cooked. 
Sprinkle  fine  salt  over  it  an  hour  before  it  is  put  to  the  fire. 
Cut  off  the  feet  at  the  first  joint.  Make  stuffing  enough 
to  fill  it  very  full.  When  placed  in  the  roaster,  confine 
7 


50  PORK. 

the  legs  in  such  a  manner  as  to  give  it  good  shape.  Rub 
it  all  over  with  butter  or  sweet  oil,  to  keep  it  from  blister- 
ing. Flour  it  at  first  a  little;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  brown, 
dredge  on  a  very  thick  covering  of  flour.  If  the  flour 
falls  off,  instantly  renew  it.  When  it  has  all  become  of  a 
dark  brown  color,  scrape  it  off  into  a  plate  and  set  it  aside. 
Put  a  piece  of  butter  into  the  gravy  in  the  roaster,  and 
baste  the  pig  very  often,  until  it  is  done.  The  feet  and 
liver  should  be  boiled  an  hour  or  two,  and  the  gravy  from 
the  roaster  be  poured  into  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled.  The  gravy  should  be  thickened  with  the  browned 
flour  reserved  in  the  plate.  A  pig  a  month  old  will  roast 
in  two  hours  and  a  half. 

Shoulder  of  Pork. 

One  weighing  ten  pounds  will  require  full  three  hours 
and  a  half  to  roast  it.  For  a  small  family  divide  it, 
and  roast  one  half  and  corn  the  other.  With  a  sharp 
knife  score  the  skin  in  strips  about  an  inch  wide.  Make 
a  dressing,  and  put  this  into  deep  incisions  made  in  the 
thick  part  of  the  meat.  Rub  a  little  fine  powdered  sage 
into  the  skin  where  it  is  scored;  and  then  rub  the  whole 
surface  with  sweet  oil,  or  drippings,  to  prevent  its  blister- 
ing. Baste  often  and  frequently  turn  the  meat.  Pork 
burns  very  easily,  and  both  the  taste  and  appearance  are 
much  injured  by  its  being  burnt.  While  cooking,  flour  it 
often. 

Spare-rib,  or  Chine. 

A  spare-rib  requires  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours, 
according  to  the  thickness.  A  very  thin  one  will  roast  in 
an  hour  and  a  half.  Flour  it  well,  and  take  care  it  does 
not  burn.  Baste  it  often.  The  chine  requires  a  longer 
time  being  a  thicker  piece.  It  is  more  healthy,  because 
less  fat  than  the  spare-rib,  and  having  more  meat  in  pro- 
portion to  the  bone,  is  a  more  economical  piece.  Before 
roasting  either,  trim  off  neatly  all  the  fat  which  can  be 
removed  without  disfiguring  the  piece,  and  set  it  aside  to 
be  tried  and  used  as  lard. 


PORK.  51 

Pork  Steaks. 

Cut  slices  from  the  loin  and  ndfck.  To  fry  pork  steaks 
requires  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  Turn  them  often. 
If  they  are  quite  fat,  pour  off  all  that  fries  out  when  they 
are  half  done  and  reserve  it  for  some  other  use.  Then 
dip  the  steaks  in  crumbs  of  bread  with  a  little  powdered 
sage,  and  lay  them  back  into  the  frying-pan.  When  done 
through  take  them  up,  dredge  a  little  browned  flour  into 
the  gravy,  put  in  salt,  pour  in  a  gill  of  boiling  water,  and 
turn  it  instantly,  as  it  boils  up,  upon  the  dish  of  steaks. 

To  Make  Sausages. 

6  lbs.  lean  fresh  pork. 

3  lbs.  fat  fresh  pork. 

12  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sage. 

6  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper. 

6  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

Grind  the  meat,  fat  and  lean,  in  a  sausage-mill,  or  chop 
it  very  fine,  and  the  latter  can  be  done  much  easier  when 
the  meat  is  frozen.  Mix  the  seasoning  in  with  your  hands, 
taste,  to  be  sure  all  is  right,  and  pack  in  stone  jars,  pour- 
ing melted  lard  on  top.  Another  good  way  of  preserving 
them  is,  to  make  long,  narrow  bags  of  stout  muslin,  large 
enough  to  contain,  each,  enough  sausage  for  a  family  dish. 
Fill  these  with  the  meat,  dip  in  melted  lard,  and  hang 
from  the  beams  of  the  cellar.  If  you  wish  to  pack  in  the 
intestines  of  the  hog,  they  should  be  carefully  prepared, 
as  follows:  Empty  them,  cut  them  in  lengths,  and  lay  for 
two  days  in  salt  and  water.  Turn  them  inside  out,  and 
lay  in  soak  one  day  longer.  Scrape  them,  rinse  in  soda 
and  water,  wipe  and  blow  into  one  end,  having  tied  up 
the  other  with  a  bit  of  twine.  If  they  are  whole  and 
clear,  stuff  with  the  meat;  tie  up  and  hang  in  the  store- 
room or  cellar. 

To  Fry  Sausages. 

These  are  fried  in  the  cases,  in  a  clean,  dry  frying-pan 
until  brown.     If  you  have  the  sausage  meat  in  bulk,  make 


S2  PORK. 

in  small,  round  flat  cakes,  and  fry  in  the  same  manner. 
Some  dip  in  egg  and  pounded  cracker,  others  roll  in  flour 
before  cooking.  Their  own  fat  will  cook  them.  Send  to 
table  dry  and  hot,  but  do  not  let  them  fry  hard.  When 
one  side  is  done  turn  the  other.  The  fire  should  be  very 
brisk.  Fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  is  long  enough  to  cook 
them. 

Bologna  Sausage. 

Take  equal  parts  of  veal,  pork,  and  ham.  Chop  them 
fine  and  season  with  sweet  herbs,  salt,  pepper  (cayenne 
and  black),  and  spices  if  desired.  Stuff  into  beef  skins; 
tie  them  up,  prick  the  skins  in  several  places  to  allow  the 
steam  to  escape,  and  put  them  into  hot  water  and  gradu- 
ally heat  to  the  boiling  point.  Cook  slowly  for  an  hour, 
then  take  out  the  skins  and  let  them  dry  in  the  sun.  Rub 
the  outside  of  the  skins  when  dry,  with  oil,  or  melted  but- 
ter, and  hang  in  a  dry,  cool  cellar.  If  they  are  to  be  kept 
some  time,  rub  pepper  over  the  outside  of  the  skins. 
These  can  be  eaten  without  more  cooking,  although  some 
persons  prefer  to  boil  them  in  a  little  water  before  eating. 
Cut  in  round  slices  when  sent  to  the  table. 

Molasses  Cured  Hams. 

Moisten  every  part  of  the  ham  with  molasses,  and  then 
for  every  one  hundred  pounds,  use  one  quart  of  fine  salt, 
and  four  ounces  of  salt  petre;  rubbing  them  in  thoroughly 
at  every  point.  Put  the  hams  thus  prepared,  in  a  tight 
cask  for  four  days.  Then  rub  again  with  molasses  and 
one  quart  salt,  and  return  to  the  cask  for  four  days.  Re- 
peat this  the  third  and  fourth  time,  and  then  smoke  the 
hams.  This  process  takes  only  sixteen  days,  while  other 
methods  require  five  or  six  weeks. 

Boiled  Ham  or  Shoulder. 

A  ham,  weighing  twelve  pounds,  should  be  cooked  four 
or  five  hours.  Boil  it  slowly  in  a  plenty  of  water  half 
the  time  it  should  be  cooked;  then  take  off  the  skin  and 


pork.  53 

any  excrescences  that  were  not  removed  by  washing. 
Cover  the  fat  side  with  pounded  cracker,  and  lay  it  in  a 
dripping-pan,  or  iron  basin,  and  put  it  into  the  stove.  Let 
it  remain  the  other  half  of  the  time.  The  baking  roasts 
out  a  great  quantity  of  fat,  and  leaves  the  meat  much 
more  delicate.  In  warm  weather  it  will  keep  in  a  dry, 
cool  place,  a  long  time.  If  a  ham  is  very  salt,  it  should 
lie  in  water  over  night.  In  baking  it,  care  should  be  taken 
that  it  is  not  done  too  much,  and  thus  made  dry.  The 
fat  which  bakes  out  is  good  to  fry  eggs,  or  potatoes,  and 
if  not  strong  will  do  to  use  on  the  griddle. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

Cut  thin  slices  and  take  off  the  rind;  if  very  salt,  pour 
hot  water  upon  them,  but  do  not  suffer  them  to  lie  long 
in  it,  as  the  juices  of  the  meat  will  be  lost.  Wipe  them 
in  a  cloth;  have  the  spider  ready  hot,  lay  in  the  pieces 
and  turn  them  in  a  minute  or  two.  They  will  cook  in  a 
very  short  time.  The  secret  of  having  good  fried  ham  is 
in  cooking  it  quickly  and  not  too  much.  The  practice  of 
cutting  thick  slices,  laying  them  into  a  cold  spider  and 
frying  a  long  time,  makes  ham  black  and  hard.  Have  the 
eggs  ready,  and  drop  them,  one  at  a  time,  in  the  hissing 
fat.  Have  a  large  pan  for  this  purpose,  that  they  may 
not  touch  and  run  together;  in  three  minutes  they  will  be 
done.  The  meat  should  be  kept  hot,  and  when  the  eggs 
are  ready,  lay  one  upon  each  slice  of  ham. 

Broiled  Ham. 

Cut  the  slices  very  thin;  pare  off  the  rind,  and  lay  them 
on  the  gridiron  over  hot  coals.  Do  not  leave  them  a  mo- 
ment, as  they  must  be  almost  immediately  turned,  and  will 
need  attention  to  keep  the  edges  from  burning. 

Salt  Pork.     (Fried}} 

Cut  into  slices,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  in  the  spider; 
boil  them  up  two  or  three  minutes,  then  pour  off  the  wa- 
ter and  set  the  spider  again  on  the  coals  and  brown  the 


54  PORK. 

slices  on  each  side.  Fried  pork  with  baked  potatoes,  and 
fried  sour  apples  makes  a  very  good  dinner.  It  is  an  im- 
provement to  dip  the  pork,  after  being  parboiled,  into  In- 
dian meal,  before  frying  it. 

Pigs  Feet. 

They  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  and  thrown  into 
salt  water  over  night,  then  boiled  until  almost  in  pieces. 
While  cooking  drop  in  the  water  a  small  red  pepper  pod, 
a  few  whole  cloves  and  allspice.  When  done  and  well 
drained,  put  the  feet  one  by  one  into  a  jar  and  cover  with 
good  clear  vinegar,  and  in  two  days  they  will  be  ready  for 
the  table.  A  nice  breakfast  dish  is  made  by  cutting  the 
feet  into  halves,  dipping  them  in  a  batter,  and  frying  in 
hot  lard  till  they  are  of  a  light  brown. 

Head  Cheese  or  Souse. 

This  is  made  of  the  head,  ears,  and  tongue.  Boil  them 
in  salted  water  until  very  tender.  Strip  the  meat  from 
the  bones  and  chop  fine.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage, 
sweet  marjoram,  and  half  a  cup  of  strong  vinegar.  Mix 
all  together  thoroughly,  taste  to  see  that  it  is  flavored  suf- 
ficiently, remembering  that  the  spice  tends  to  keep  it; 
pack  hard  in  moulds  or  bowls.  Press  down  and  keep  the 
meat  in  shape  by  putting  a  plate  on  the  top  of  each  mould 
(first  wetting  the  plate),  and  a  weight  upon  this.  In  two 
days  the  cheese  will  be  ready  for  use.  This  is  generally 
eaten  cold  for  tea,  with  vinegar  and  mustard;  but  it  is  very 
nice  cut  in  slices,  seasoned  slightly  with  mustard,  and 
warmed  in  a  frying-pan  with  enough  butter  to  prevent 
burning. 

Tripe. 

Boil  it  until  tender.  When  cold,  cut  it  in  pieces  four 
or  five  inches  square;  flour  it  a  little,  grease  the  gridiron 
and  broil  over  a  clear  fire;  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish,  add  pepper 
and  salt  and  butter  and  serve.  To  fry  it;  lay  two  or  three 
slices  of  fat  pork  into  a  spider,  and  when  these  are  crisp, 


pork.  55 

dip  the  pieces  of  tripe  in  a  beaten  egg,  and  sprinkle  them 
with  fine  crumbs  of  bread  or  cracker  and  fry  brown. 
They  are  sometimes  dipped  in  batter. 

Baked  Pork  and  Beans. 

For  a  family  of  six  or  seven,  take  a  quart  of  white  beans, 
wash  them  in  several  waters,  and  put  them  into  two  or 
three  quarts  over  night.  In  the  morning  boil  them  until 
they  begin  to  crack  open;  then  put  them  in  a  brown  pan, 
such  as  are  made  for  the  purpose;  pour  upon  them  enough 
hot  water  to  cover  them.  Take  a  pound  of  salt  pork  and 
cut  the  rind  into  narrow  strips;  lay  it  on  top  of  the  beans, 
and  press  it  down  so  that  it  will  lie  more  than  half  its 
thickness  in  the  water.  Bake  several  hours,  four  or  five 
is  not  too  much.  Where  a  brick  oven  is  used,  it  is  well 
to  let  beans  remain  in  it  over  night.  If  they  are  baked 
in  a  stove,  or  range,  more  water  may  be  necessary,  before 
they  are  done.  Many  persons  think  it  an  improvement 
to  put  in  a  large  spoonful  or  two  of  molasses.  Those 
who  object  to  the  use  of  pork,  can  have  a  very  good  dish  of 
beans  by  substituting  fat  beef,  and  adding  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt.  To  heat  over  baked  beans,  put  them  in  a  spider 
with  a  little  water;  heat  them  slowly  at  first,  and  cover 
closely.  If  they  are  too  moist,  remove  the  cover  and  stir 
often. 


POULTRY. 


A  young  turkey  has  a  smooth  leg,  and  a  soft  bill,  and  if 
fresh  the  eyes  will  be  bright,  and  the  feet  moist.  Old  tur- 
keys have  scaly,  stiff  feet. 

Young  fowls  have  a  tender  skin,  smooth  legs,  and  the 
breast  bone  readily  yields  to  the  pressure  of  the  finger. 
The  best  are  those  that  have  yellow  legs.  The  feet  and 
legs  of  old  fowls  look  as  if  they  had  seen  hard  service  in 
the  world.  Young  ducks  feel  tender  under  the  wing,  and 
the  web  of  the  foot  is  transparent;  the  best  are  thick  and 
hard  on  the  breast.  Young  geese  have  yellow  bills,  and 
the  feet  are  yellow  and  supple;  the  skin  may  be  easily 
broken  by  the  head  of  a  pin;  the  breast  is  plump,  and  the 
fat  white.     An  old  goose  is  unfit  for  the  human  stomach. 

Roast  Turkey  or  Chicken. 

Dress  and  wash  the  fowl  inside  and  out  in  two  or  three 
waters;  in  next  to  the  last,  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  the 
soda  is  very  cleansing.  Fill  the  body  with  the  soda  water, 
shake  well,  empty  it  out  and  rinse  thoroughly  with  clear 
water.  Salt  and  pepper  the  inside,  and  fill  the  body  and 
breast  with  the  dressing  given  below.  Sew  it  up  with  a 
needle  and  coarse  thread;  tie  the  skin  over  the  neck  with 
a  thread  or  piece  of  twine.  Sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  on 
the  outside,  and  dredge  thickly  with  flour.  Put  in  a  slow 
oven  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound;  as  a  general 
rule  that  is  sufficient,  but  of  course  one  must  be  guided 
by  the  age  of  the  fowl.  Baste  frequently;  stew  the  gib- 
lets in  a  sauce-pan,  when  cooked  chop  fine,  add  the  water 
in  which  they  were  boiled,  to  the  gravy  of  the  roast  fowl, 
also  the  chopped  giblets;  thicken  with  a  little  flour  previ- 


POULTRY.  57 

ously  wet  in  water.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  in  a  gravy 
boat.  If  the  fowl  is  very  fat,  skim  the  drippings  well  be- 
fore putting  in  the  giblets. 

Dressing  for  Turkey  or  Chicken. 

Grate  bread  crumbs  fine,  and  mix  with  them  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  thyme,  marjoram  or  sage;  wet  with  hot  water 
or  milk.  You  may,  if  you  like,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  or  mince  a  dozen  oysters  and  stir  into  the  dress- 
ing, and  if  partial  to  the  taste  wet  the  bread  crumbs  with 
the  oyster  liquor.  Stuff  the  craw  with  this  and  tie  a  string 
tightly  about  the  neck  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  stuff- 
ing; then  fill  the  body  of  the  fowl  and  sew  up  with  a 
strong  thread.  This  and  the  neck  string  must  be  removed 
when  the  fowl  is  dished. 

Boiled  Turkey  or  Chicken. 

Take  a  young  fowl,  fill  the  inside  with  oysters  and 
dressing,  and  baste  about  it  a  thin  cloth  fitted  closely  to 
every  part;  -the  inside  of  the  cloth  should  be  dredged  with 
flour  to  prevent  the  cloth  sticking  to  it.  Place  in  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water,  enough  to  cover  it  well.  Boil  until  ten- 
der. There  will  be  a  gravy  in  the  kettle  from  the  juice 
of  the  fowl.  Make  this  into  a  white  sauce  with  the  addi- 
tion of  a  little  butter  or  cream.  Add  oysters,  or  serve  up 
plain;  the  addition  of  a  little  parsley  is  an  improvement. 

Pressed  Turkey  or  Chicken. 

Boil  one  or  two  chickens  in  enough  water  to  cook  very- 
tender.  Take  them  out  when  done,  remove  ail  the  bones, 
mincing  the  meat  very  fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  and  return  them  to  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled.  Cook  them  until  the  liquor  is  nearly  gone;  then 
pour  the  contents  into  a  deep  dish,  lay  a  plate  over  it,  put 
on  a  weight  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  When  eaten, 
cut  in  slices.  It  will  be  as  firm  as  cheese,  and  is  very 
nice  for  tea. 
8 


$8  POULTRY. 

Fricasseed  Chicken. 

Boil  them  until  tender  in  water  enough  barely  to 
cover  them.  Take  off  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises.  Take 
them  up  and  carve  in  the  usual  way.  Put  part  of  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled  into  a  spider  or  stew-pan. 
For  two  chickens  rub  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg, 
and  a  spoonful  of  flour  together,  and  stir  into  the  water 
as  it  boils  up.  Add  some  salt,  and  a  gill  of  cream  or  milk. 
Lay  in  the  pieces  of  chicken,  cover  the  pan  close,  and 
stew  them  gently  twenty  minutes.  Parsley  cut  fine  is  a 
decided  improvement. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces,  lay  it  in  salt  and  water,  which 
should  be  changed  several  times.  Roll  each  piece  in  flour, 
beat  two  eggs,  dip  each  piece  in  this  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  For  gravy  use  cream  or 
rich  milk,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  butter 
rubbed  into  flour.     Stir  constantly  until  it  boils  again. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

If  you  are  not  sure  your  chicken  is  tender,  it  can  be 
prepared  in  the  following  way:  Lay  some  sticks  across  a 
dripping-pan  filled  with  boiling  water,  and  place  the  fowl 
on  the  sticks,  after  splitting  it  open  through  the  back. 
Cover  with  a  pan  and  steam  for  half  an  hour  in  the  oven, 
and  then  transfer  to  a  buttered  gridiron,  inside  downward; 
broil  slowly  and  let  care  be  taken  that  they  do  not  burn; 
turn  in  ten  minutes.  To  keep  them  flat  lay  a  tin  sheet 
upon  them  with  a  weight.  Turn  several  times;  broil  half  or 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  They  can  be  broiled  best  in 
charcoal. 

Pickled  Chicken. 

Take  in  the  fall,  large,  fat  chickens,  dress  and  boil 
whole  until  the  meat  will  slip  easily  from  the  bone;  place 
them  in  earthen  jars,  and  pour  over  hot  vinegar.  When 
cold,  they  are  ready  for  use.     A  nice  relish  for  the  tea- 


POULTRY.  59 

table,  and  much  more  wholesome,  and  quite  as  palatable, 
as  pickled  pigs  feet. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Boil  chickens  in  water  barely  to  cover  them,  until  ten- 
der. Skim  the  water  carefully.  Take  them  out  in  a  dish, 
cut  them  up,  and  remove  the  larger  bones.  If  the  skin 
is  very  thick,  remove  it.  Have  ready,  lined  with  a  thick 
paste,  a  deep  dish,  of  a  size  proportioned  to  the  number 
of  chickens  you  wish  to  use;  put  in  the  pieces,  with  the 
hearts  and  livers,  in  layers;  sprinkle  each  layer  with  flour, 
salt,  and  pepper,  and  put  on  each  piece  of  chicken  a 
thin  shaving  of  butter;  do  this  until  you  have  laid  in  all 
the  pieces;  put  rather  more  flour  and  butter  over  the  top 
layer  than  on  the  previous  ones,  and  pour  in  as  much  of 
the  liquor  in  which  the  chickens  were  boiled  as  you  can 
without  danger  of  its  boiling  over.  Lay  on  the  upper 
crust,  and  close  the  edges  very  carefully  with  flour  and 
water;  prick  the  top  with  a  knife.  Cut  leaves  of  crust 
and  ornament  it.  Bake  two  hours.  The  crust  for  chicken 
pie  should  be  twice  as  thick  as  for  fruit  pies. 

Prairie  Chickens,  Quails  and  other  Small  Birds. 

Dress  with  care,  using  a  little  soda  in  the  water  in 
which  they  are  washed,  then  rinse  and  wipe  them  dry,  and 
fill  with  dressing;  sew  them  up  neatly,  and  bind  down  the 
legs  and  wings  with  cords.  Put  them  in  a  steamer  and 
let  them  cook  until  just  done.  Then  set  them  in  the 
oven,  in  a  pan,  with  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and 
baste  often  until  they  are  of  a  nice  brown,  which  ought 
not  to  take  more  than  fifteen  minutes. 

Broiled  Prairie  Chicken. 

Broil  like  other  chickens,  but  longer,  because  they  are 
larger,  and  the  meat  is  thick.  The  fire  should  not  be  very 
hot,  as  they  should  broil  gradually.  Lay  upon  a  hot  plat- 
ter, sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  on  a  plenty  of 
butter.  The  meat  is  very  dry,  therefore  considerable  but- 
ter is  necessary. 


60  POULTRY. 

Fricasseed  Prairie  Chicken. 

Remove  the  inwards,  wash  the  chickens,  and  boil  an 
hour,  or  a  little  more.  Skim  carefully.  Strain  the  liquor 
into  a  stew-pan.  When  it  boils  up,  add,  for  one  chicken, 
a  spoonful  of  butter,  two  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  browned 
flour,  salt,  and  a  little  pepper,  and  stew  ten  minutes. 

Roast  Duck. 

Clean,  wash  and  wipe  the  ducks  very  carefully.  To  the 
usual  dressing  add  a  little  sage,  and  a  minced  shallot. 
Stuff  and  sew  up  as  usual,  reserving  the  giblets  for  the 
gravy.  If  they  are  tender,  they  will  not  require  more 
than  an  hour  to  roast.  Baste  well.  Skim  the  gravy  be- 
fore putting  in  the  giblets  and  thickening.  The  giblets 
should  be  stewed  in  a  very  little  water,  then  chopped  fine, 
and  added  to  the  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan.  with  a 
chopped  shallot  and  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour. 

Roast  Goose. 

Wash  thoroughly,  using  a  little  soda,  rinse  and  then  boil 
half  an  hour  to  take  out  the  strong,  oily  taste;  stuff  and 
roast  it  exactly  like  a  turkey.  If  it  is  a  young  one,  an 
hour's  roasting  will  be  sufficient. 

Roast  Pigeons. 

Pick  out  the  pin  feathers,  or  if  there  are  a  great  many, 
pull  off  the  skin.  Examine  the  inside  very  carefully. 
Soak  them  half  an  hour  in  a  good  deal  of  water,  to  take 
out  the  blood.  Then  boil  them  with  a  little  salt  in  the 
water,  half  an  hour,  and  take  off  the  scum  as  fast  as  it 
rises.  Take  them  out,  flour  them  well,  and  lay  them  in  a 
dripping-pan;  strain  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
and  put  a  part  of  it  into  the  pan;  stir  in  it  a  little  piece 
of  butter,  and  baste  the  pigeons  often.  Add  pepper  and 
sweet  marjoram  if  you  prefer.  Roast  them  nearly  two 
hours.     Pigeons  need  to  be  cooked  a  long  time. 


POULTRY.  6l 


Pigeon  Pie. 


Pick,  soak  and  boil  pigeons  with  the  same  care  as  di- 
rected in  the  recipe  for  roasting  them.  Make  a  crust  as 
for  chicken  or  veal  pie.  Lay  in  the  pigeons  whole,  and 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  shavings  of  butter,  and  sweet 
marjoram;  flour  them  thickly,  then  strain  the  water  in 
which  they  were  boiled,  and  fill  the  dish  two-thirds  full 
with  it.  Lay  the  top  crust  over  and  close  the  edges  well. 
Make  many  incisions  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  or  a  large 
fork,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 


GAME. 

To  Keep  Game  from  Tainting. 

Draw  as  soon  as  they  come  into  your  possession;  rinse 
with  soda  and  water,  then  with  pure  cold  water;  wipe  dry, 
and  rub  them  lightly  with  a  mixture  of  fine  salt  and  black 
pepper.  If  you  must  keep  them  some  time,  put  in  the 
cavity  of  each  fowl  a  piece  of  charcoal;  hang  them  in  a 
cool,  dark  place,  with  a  cloth  thrown  over  them.  Small 
birds,  unless  there  are  too  many  of  them,  may  be  kept  in 
a  refrigerator  after  you  have  drawn,  washed  and  wiped 
them.  The  charcoal  is  an  admirable  preventive  of  de- 
composition. 

Venison. 

Roast  a  haunch  like  a  loin  or  leg  of  veal,  and  about  as 
long.  Flour  it  thickly.  Put  some  of  the  stock  for  gravies, 
or  water  in  which  beef  has  been  boiled,  into  a  pan,  and 
baste  it  often.  Half  an  hour  before  serving  it,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  to  the  gravy,  and  baste  it  again 
and  again.  Most  persons  like  venison  cooked  simply  with- 
out spices.  But  if  you  prefer  a  dressing,  make  it  as  for 
veal,  with  the  addition  of  powdered  clove. 

Venison  steaks  are  cooked  like  beef  steaks. 

Rabbits  and  Squirrels. 

Clean  and  wash  them  well;  scald  them  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Skim  the 
water,  cut  them  up,  and  dip  the  pieces  in  beaten  egg,  and 
roll  in  bread  crumbs  or  pounded  crackers,  with  salt  and  a 
little  pepper.  Fry  them  brown  in  butter;  lay  them  in  a 
fricassee  dish.  Put  a  little  of  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled  into  the  spider;  rub  two  spoonfuls  of  browned 


GAME.  63. 

flour  smooth  in  some  of  the  water,  and  stir  into  the  spider, 
and  pour  over  the  pieces.  If  the  gravy  does  not  seem, 
rich  enough,  stir  into  it  a  small  spoonful  of  butter.  Rab- 
bits are  also  stuffed  and  roasted. 

Roast  Fawn. 

Clean  and  wash  thoroughly;  stuff  with  a  dressing  made  of 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  pork,  pepper  and  salt.  Moisten 
with  water  and  cream,  bind  with  beaten  egg  and  melted 
butter.  Sew  up  the  fawn,  turning  the  legs  under,  and 
binding  close  to  the  body.  Cover  with  thin  slices  of  fat 
pork,  bound  on  with  pack  thread,  crossing  in  every  direc- 
tion, and  roast  at  a  quick  fire.  Allow  twenty-two  minutes 
to  a  pound.  Twenty  minutes  before  it  is  dished,  remove 
the  pork  and  set  down  the  fawn  to  brown,  basting  with 
melted  butter.  At  last,  dredge  with  flour,  let  this  brown, 
froth  with  butter  and  serve.  A  kid  can  be  roasted  the 
same  way,  also  hares  and  rabbits. 

Boiled  Partridges. 

Put  them  in  a  floured  cloth  into  boiling  water,  and  boil 
them  fast  fifteen  minutes.  For  sauce,  rub  a  very  small 
piece  of  butter  into  some  flour,  and  boil  in  a  teacupful  of 
cream.     Add  cut  parsley  if  preferred. 

Roast  Partridges. 

Prepare  them  like  chickens,  and  roast  three-quarters  of 
an  hour. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH. 

Gravy. 

When  ready  to  make  the  gravy,  remove  the  roast  from 
the  dripping-pan  and  stir  into  the  stock  which  is  in  the 
pan,  flour  sufficient  to  thicken  the  gravy,  be  careful  to 
break  the  flour  thoroughly  in  a  little  water,  then  pour  over 
the  thickened  stock,  boiling  water  and  place  over  the  fire, 
about  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  If  there  is  but 
little  fat  in  the  stock,  as  will  be  the  case  in  veal  or  venison, 
add  some  butter  when  ready  to  stir  in  the  flour.  Strain 
when  done. 

Gravy  for  Poultry  is  made  by  boiling  the  giblets  (necks, 
gizzards,  hearts  and  livers,)  by  themselves  in  five  or  six 
gills  of  water.  Skim  carefully  as  a  great  deal  of  scum 
will  rise.  After  an  hour  or  more,  take  them  out,  and  pour 
the  water  into  the  dripping-pan.  Chop  the  liver  fine,  and 
add  this  to  the  gravy,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  some  wet  flour, 
and  if  you  choose,  a  little  sweet  marjoram.  In  making 
gravy  for  a  goose,  pour  off  all  the  drippings,  and  put  in 
some  of  the  stock  or  meat  liquor. 

Melted  or  Drawn  Butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.. 

y2  cup  of  butter. 

i  pint  of  water  or  milk. 

A  little  salt. 

Break  up,  and  beat  well,  the  flour  in  milk  or  water. 
Cut  the  butter  in  small  bits  and  put  it  in  the  water,  in  a 
vessel  on  the  stove  and  when  hot  stir  in  gradually  the 
thickening;  taking  care  that  it  does  not  form  lumps.  If 
milk  is  used,  the  vessel  should  be  placed  within  another 


SAUCES   FOR   MEAT    AND  FISH.  65 

containing  water.      Mix   with  milk   for  puddings,  with 
water  for  fish  and  meat. 

Egg  Sauce. 

Make  a  sauce  of  drawn  butter  as  in  directions  above. 
Chop  fine  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  stir  into  the  drawn 
butter.  This  is  used  for  fish  and  some  kinds  of  vegeta- 
bles. For  fish,  add  capers  or  nasturtium  seeds.  The 
hard  boiled  eggs  can  be  omitted,  and  two  raw  eggs  well 
beaten,  stirred  into  the  drawn  butter. 

Oyster  Sauce. 

1  pint  of  oysters. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
y2  lemon. 

1  teacupful  milk  or  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  of  flour. 

Cayenne  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Stew  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  five  minutes,  and 
then  add  the  milk  in  which  the  flour  has  been  broken  up. 
Put  in  the  butter  and  pepper,  boil  for  one  minute  and 
remove  the  sauce-pan  from  the  fire.  Squeeze  in  lemon- 
juice  when  ready  to  serve. 

This  sauce  is  used  for  boiled  halibut,  cod  and  other  fish; 
also  for  boiled  turkey,  chickens,  and  any  other  kind  of 
white  meat. 

Celery  Sauce. 

Put  a  pint  of  milk  to  boil  in  a  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water.  Cut  fine  six  stalks  of  celery,  and  add  to 
the  milk,  with  a  little  salt.  When  the  celery  is  soft,  which 
will,  be  in  about  an  hour,  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  butter 
rubbed  into  half  a  spoonful  of  flour.  If  the  sauce  seems 
too  thick,  add  enough  milk  to  make  it  of  the  consistency 
of  good  cream.  Let  it  remain  a  few  moments,  stirring 
constantly,  and  then  serve. 
9 


66  SAUCES   FOR   MEAT    AND    FISH. 

Caper  Sauce.     {For  Boiled  Mutton  or  Lamb.) 

%  pint  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  cornstarch  or  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  capers. 

Boil  the  milk,  then  stir  in  the  cornstarch  or  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  cold  milk,  and  then  the  butter.  Last  of  all, 
add  the  capers,  and  let  it  boil  up. 

Anchovy  Sauce. 

Pound  three  anchovies,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Stir 
them  into  half  a  pint  of  drawn  butter.  Add,  also,  lemon- 
juice,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Mayonaise  Sauce. 

Yolks  of  2  raw  eggs  (not  a  particle  of  the  white  or 
your  sauce  will  curdle). 

i  %  mustard  spoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  mustard  together;  add 
very  slowly  the  best  salad  oil,  stirring  constantly  until  you 
can  reverse  the  dish  without  spilling;  then  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  cayenne  and  black  pepper  to 
taste;  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  briskly  until  quite 
light  colored,  and  serve  on  lobster,  lettuce  or  fish. 

Mint  Sauce  for  Roast  Lamb. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  green  mint  chopped  fine. 

i  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 

y2  teacupful  of  vinegar. 

Soak  the  mint  to  remove  all  the  gravel  and  chop  very 
fine.  Mix  the  sugar  and  vinegar  (taking  care  that  the 
sugar  is  all  dissolved  before  sending  to  the  table)  in  a 
sauce-boat,  and  stir  in  the  mint.  This  gives  a  very  fine 
flavor  to  lamb. 


EGGS. 

Elements  of  Eggs. 

Eggs  contain  two  distinct  substances,  the  yolk  and  the 
white,  and  in  the  latter  is  found  a  greater  proportion  of 
albumen  than  in  the  yolk.  The  white  contains  fifteen 
parts  albumen  out  of  every  one  hundred  parts,  the  re- 
mainder being  water.  After  the  white  has  been  heated  it 
changes  its  transparent  color,  hardens,  and  becomes  an 
opaque  white,  from  which  it  derives  its  Latin  name  albas, 
white.  The  yolk  also  contains  a  considerable  quantity  of 
albumen,  also  drops  of  yellow  oil.  This  oil  forms  about 
two-thirds  of  the  weight  of  the  yolk.  Sulphur  is  also 
found  in  large  proportion  in  the  yolk,  which  causes  silver 
to  tarnish,  when  used  in  eggs  which  have  been  cooked; 
this  also  produces  the  offensive  smell  when  the  eggs  are 
rotten.  Vegetable  albumen  differs  in  no  respect  from 
that  contained  in  eggs  which  is  composed  of  carbon,  oxy- 
gen, hydrogen,  a  large  proportion  of  nitrogen  and  sulphur, 
except  that  albumen  of  eggs  contains  a  slightly  larger  pro- 
portion of  sulphur.  Eggs  form  a  very  valuable  food,  for 
like  milk  they  contain  all  the  material  required  for  the 
growth  of  the  body,  as  is  demonstrated  in  the  chicken, 
which  is  formed  from  the  materials  within  the  shell.  The 
digestibility  of  eggs  greatly  depend  on  the  manner  of 
cooking.  When  raw  or  lightly  cooked,  they  are  more 
readily  digested  than  when  hard  boiled  or  fried. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 
6  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  salt, 
i  tablespoonful  butter. 
Put  the  butter  in  the  frying  pan,  and  when  hot  drop  in 


68  EGGS. 

the  eggs  (unbeaten)  which  should  be  broken  into  a  bowl. 
Stir  in  the  pepper  and  salt,  and  keep  stirring  without  ces- 
sation for  three  minutes.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish,  or  upon 
toast.     Do  not  let  them  remain  in  the  pan  until  stiff. 

Plain  Omelet. 

6  eggs.  # 

i  cup  milk. 

Butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  that  will  stand  alone,  the 
yolks  to  a  smooth,  thick  batter.  Add  to  the  yolks,  the 
milk,  pepper  and  salt,  lastly  stir  in  the  whites  lightly. 
Have  ready  in  the  frying-pan  a  good  lump  of  butter. 
When  it  hisses  pour  in  the  mixture  and  set  over  a  clear 
fire.  It  must  not  cook  longer  than  ten  minutes.  Do  not 
stir,  but  as  the  eggs  "set"  slip  a  knife  under  the  omelet  to 
guard  against  burning  at  the  bottom.  When  done,  lay  a 
hot  dish  bottom  up  on  the  pan,  and  upset  the  latter  to 
bring  the  brown  side  of  the  omelet  uppermost.  Eat  soon, 
or  it  will  fall. 

Omelet.     {Fried?) 

6  eggs. 

6  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

y2  cup  butter  (melted). 

A  little  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  add  the  milk,  butter  and  salt. 
Fry  on  a  griddle  hot  enough  for  cakes;  buttered  to  pre- 
vent sticking.  Drop  them  on  the  griddle  like  large  cakes. 
When  they  begin  to  set,  turn  up  the  edge,  and  as  they 
brown  fold  them  over  and  over.  Then  let  them  lie  a 
moment  more.     Serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

Poached  Eggs. 
6  eggs, 
i  pint  milk, 
i  teaspoonful  salt. 
i  tablespoonful  butter. 

Set  a  tin  pan  or  pail  on  the  stove  containing  the  milk. 
Beat  the  eggs  well.     When  the  milk  is  nearly  boiling  put 


EGGS.  69 

in  salt  and  butter;  then  add  the  eggs,  and  stir  steadily  un- 
til it  thickens,  which  will  be  in  a  minute  or  two.  Set  it 
off  before  it  becomes  very  thick,  and  continue  to  stir  it  a 
minute  more.  Have  ready  in  a  warm  dish,  a  few  slices 
of  toasted  bread  spread  with  butter,  and  pour  the  egg 
over  it.     It  should  be  a  little  thicker  than  boiled  custard. 

Poached  Eggs,     (a  la  Crime?) 

Nearly  fill  a  clean  frying-pan  with  strained  water  boil- 
ing hot;  strain  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  through  double 
muslin,  and  add  to  the  water  with  a  little  salt.  Slip  your 
egg  from  the  saucer  upon  the  top  of  the  water  (first  taking 
the  pan  from  the  fire).  Boil  three  minutes  and  a  half, 
drain,  and  lay  on  buttered  toast  in  a  warm  dish.  Turn 
the  water  from  the  pan  and  pour  in  half  a  cupful  of  cream 
or  milk.  If  you  use  the  latter,  thicken  with  a  very  little 
cornstarch.  Let  it  heat  to  a  boil,  stirring  to  prevent  burn- 
ing, and  add  a  great  spoonful  of  butter,  some  pepper  and 
salt.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  eggs.  A  better 
way  still  is  to  heat  the  milk  in  a  separate  saucepan,  that 
the  eggs  may  not  have  to  stand.  A  little  broth  improves 
the  sauce. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

New  laid  eggs  require  half  a  minute  longer  to  cook 
than  others.  The  fresher  they  are  the  better,  and  the 
more  healthful.  Eggs  over  a  week  old  should  never  be 
boiled;  they  will  do  to  fry.  Put  them  into  water  that 
boils,  but  not  furiously,  as  it  will  crack  them.  If  you  like 
them  very  soft,  boil  them  three  minutes.  If  you  wish  the 
yolk  hard,  boil  them  five  minutes.  To  be  served  with 
salad,  they  should  be  boiled  twelve  minutes. 

Fried  Eggs. 

After  you  have  fried  ham,  drop  in  the  eggs  one  at  a 
time.  In  about  a  minute  dip  the  boiling  fat  with  a  spoon 
over  them  again  and  again.  This  will  prevent  the  neces- 
sity of   turning  them  which   is  difficult   to  do   without 


70  EGGS. 

breaking  the  yolks.  Take  them  up  in  about  two  minutes 
and  a  half,  with  a  skimmer.  The  fat  that  roasts  out  of  a 
ham  that  is  browned  in  an  oven,  is  good  for  frying  eggs. 

Dropped  Eggs. 

Drop  fresh  eggs  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water  with 
salt  in  it.  Put  them  in  gently,  so  as  not  to  break  the  yolks. 
Have  ready  slices  of  buttered  toast,  and  either  take  up  the 
eggs  with  a  skimmer,  or  pour  off  the  water,  and  then  turn 
them  out  upon  the  toast.  Add  more  salt  if  they  are  not 
seasoned  enough  by  that  which  is  in  the  water. 

Packing  Eggs. 

Pack  in  bran  or  salt,  with  the  small  end  downward  if 
you  wish  to  use  within  a  few  weeks.  If  to  be  kept  for  a 
longer  time,  a  surer  method  is  to  smear  them  well  with 
linseed  oil,  or  a  weak  solution  of  gum  tragacanth,  or  var- 
nish, this  excludes  the  air.  Another  method  is  to  make  a 
pretty  strong  lime  water;  allowing  a  pound  of  lime  to  a 
gallon  of  boiling  water;  when  perfectly  cold,  fill  a  large 
jar  with  it,  in  which  you  have  packed  the  eggs,  small  end 
downward.  Lay  a  saucer,  or  light  weight  on  the  top  to 
keep  them  under  water,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Renew 
the  lime  water  every  three  weeks.  You  may  add  an  ounce 
of  saltpeter  to  it. 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE. 

Milk. 

Milk  consists  of  water  in  large  proportion,  caseine,  or 
curd,  butter,  sugar  of  milk,  and  saline  matter,  in  small 
proportions.  Caseine  in  many  of  its  properties  closely  re- 
sembles albumen.  If  a  little  sulphuric  acid  be  stirred  in 
some  skimmed  milk,  it  will  coagulate  in  a  short  time,  and 
form  a  curd,  from  which  can  be  obtained  pure  caseine, 
which  forms  one  of  the  chief  ingredients  of  cheese. 

Caseine  is  found  also  in  beans,  peas,  and  perhaps  in  all 
vegetable  juices.  So  large  a  proportion  of  caseine  is 
found  in  peas  that  the  Chinese  make  a  cheese  from  them, 
which  in  time  acquires  the  smell  and  taste  of  milk  cheese, 
and  is  a  favorite  article  of  food  when  fresh.  The  caseine 
found  in  vegetables  is  called  legumine,  to  distinguish  it 
from  that  of  milk.  When  milk  has  been  exposed  to  the 
air  for  a  length  of  time,  it  acquires  a  sour  taste  which 
gradually  increases  in  intensity  till  at  length  the  whole 
begins  to  ferment.  This  sour  taste  is  owing  to  the  pro- 
duction of  a  peculiar  acid,  which  is  called  acid  of  milk, 
or  lactic  acid.  The  same  acid  is  formed  during  the  fer- 
mentation of  the  juice  of  beets,  in  sour  cabbage  (sauer 
kraut),  and  in  many  other  kinds  of  vegetables  which  are 
allowed  to  ferment.  The  souring  of  milk  arises  from  the 
action  of  caseine  by  converting  the  sugar  in  the  milk  into 
an  acid.  If  milk  be  kept  at  low  temperature  it  may  be 
preserved  sweet  for  several  days.  The  quality  of  the 
milk  depends  largely  upon  the  race  and  size  of  the  cow. 
As  a  general  rule  small  races,  or  small  cows  of  a  larger 
race,  give  the  richest  milk  from  the  same  kind  of  food. 
From  extensive  experiments  made  in  England  it  was  found 
that  the  Holderness  breed  gave  the  largest  quantity  of 
milk,  and  second  the  Alderney.     Either  of  these  varieties 


72  MILK,  BUTTER   AND   CHEESE. 

will  be  found  well  suited  for  family  or  town  dairymen  who 
wish  to  use  the  milk  and  cream  for  market.  Mr.  Youatt 
states  that  the  "  milch  cow  should  have  a  long,  thin  head, 
with  a  brisk  but  placid  eye;  she  should  be  thin  and  hol- 
low in  the  neck,  narrow  in  the  breast  and  point  of  the 
shoulders,  and  altogether  light  in  the  fore  quarters,  but 
wide  in  the  loins,  with  little  dewlap.  The  udder  should 
be  especially  large,  round  and  full,  with  milk  veins  pro- 
truding, yet  thin  skinned,  but  not  hanging  loose  or  tend- 
ing far  behind.  The  teats  should  also  stand  squarely,  all 
pointing  out  at  equal  distance  and  of  the  same  size,  and 
although  neither  very  large  nor  thick  toward  the  udder, 
yet  long  and  tapering  toward  a  point.  Her  feeding  should 
be  carefully  attended  to;  great  care  should  be  taken  not 
to  give  food  which  will  injure  the  flavor  of  the  milk.  She 
should  have  a  teacup  of  salt  at  least  once  a  week.  Be 
careful  that  she  is  not  allowed  to  run  from  the  pasture. 

Butter. 

Butter  prepared  in  any  of  the  usual  ways  contains  more 
or  less  of  all  the  ingredients  contained  in  milk,  but  con- 
sists more  essentially  of  the  fat  of  milk  intimately  mixed 
with  greater  or  less  proportion  of  caseine,  water,  and  a  small 
quantity  of  sugar  of  milk.  The  nature  of  the  food  must 
in  all  cases  affect  the  proportion  of  fatty  and  cheesy  mat- 
ter in  our  domestic  butter.  Besides  the  caseine  and  sugar, 
butter  usually  contains  some  coloring  matter  derived  from 
the  substance  on  which  the  cow  has  been  feed.  From 
experiments  in  England  it  has  been  proved  that  Ayrshire 
cows  produced  the  largest  amount  of  butter.  The  con- 
stitution of  the  animal  will  affect  the  quality  of  the  but- 
ter, as  there  are  some  cows  from  which  good  butter  can 
never  be  made,  however  well  they  may  be  fed.  The 
chances  of  good  butter  at  all  seasons  of  the  year  are  in 
favor  of  churning  the  whole  milk,  instead  of  the  cream; 
but  when  the  milk  is  churned,  the  temperature  should  be 
higher  than  for  cream  alone.  This  course  is  only  prac- 
ticable in  large  dairies.     Cream  should  not  be  warmer 


MILK,  BUTTER   AND   CHEESE.  73 

when  the  churning  begins  than  55 °  F.  Milk  ought  to  be 
raised  to  65  °  F.  It  is  almost  needless  to  allude  to  clean- 
liness, as  being  necessary  for  good  butter,  but  we  do  wish  to 
impress  the  fact  upon  the  minds  of  those  who  may  have 
had  no  experience  in  butter  making.  Cream  is  remark- 
able for  the  rapidity  with  which  it  absorbs,  and  becomes 
tainted  by,  unpleasant  odors.  It  is  very  necessary  that 
the  air  of  the  milk-room  should  be  sweet  and  often  re- 
newed, and  be  careful  to  have  it  away  from  the  direction 
whence  bad  odors  come.  Also  strict  cleanliness  and  care 
must  be  taken  with  all  dishes  used  in  the  dairy.  If  but- 
ter is  to  be  kept  for  a  length  of  time,  great  care  must  be 
taken  to  exclude  the  air  from  every  part.  In  butter  to  be 
salted  the  sooner  it  can  be  done  and  the  butter  packed 
close,  the  better  and  sweeter  it  will  remain.  The  salt 
should  be  as  pure  as  possible,  free  from  lime  and  magne- 
sia as  it  can  be  obtained,  since  these  substances  are  apt  to 
give  it  a  bitter  or  other  disagreeable  taste.  Common  salt 
can  be  easily  purified  from  these  by  pouring  a  couple 
quarts  of  water  upon  fifteen  or  twenty  pounds  of  salt, 
stirring  the  whole  occasionally  for  two  hours  and  then 
straining  it  through  a  clean  cloth.  The  water  which  runs 
through  is  a  saturated  solution  of  salt  and  contains  all  of 
the  impurities,  but  may  be  used  for  common  culinary 
purposes,  or  fed  to  the  cattle.  The  salt  which  remains 
on  the  cloth  is  free  from  the  soluble  salts  of  lime  and 
magnesia,  and  may  be  hung  up  in  the  cloth  until  it  is  dry 
enough  to  be  used  to  mix  with  the  butter  and  cheese. 
The  point  in  salting  butter  is  to  take  care  that  all  the 
water  which  remains  in  the  butter  shall  be  fully  saturated 
with  salt,  that  is  to  say,  shall  have  dissolved  as  much  as  it 
can  possibly  take  up,  and  that  in  no  part  of  the  butter 
shall  there  be  a  particle  of  cheesy  matter  which  is  not 
also  in  contact  with  the  salt.  It  is  not  uncommon  to  em- 
ploy a  mixture  of  salt,  saltpeter,  sulphur  and  sugar  for 
the  preservation  of  butter. 


74  milk,  butter  and  cheese. 

Butter  Making. 

As  experienced  butter  makers  have  their  own  way  of 
making  butter,  we  do  not  presume  to  show  a  better  way, 
but  for  the  benefit  of  any  who  wish  to  make  their  own 
butter,  or  for  market,  and  are  inexperienced  in  the  art, 
we  have  copied  from  the  "  New  York  Tribune  "  the  direc- 
tions given  by  John  Stuart,  Manchester,  Iowa,  who  re- 
ceived a  gold  medal  for  best  50-pound  package  of  butter 
at  the  Centennial  display  in  June.  These  directions,  al- 
though applying  to  a  large  dairy  can  be  made  useful  for 
family  butter  making. 

Mr.  S.  describes  his  mode  of  making  as  follows:  His 
pans  are  2  feet  wide  by  4  feet  long  and  14  inches  deep. 
During  warm  weather  they  are  set  in  vats  of  cold  water, 
in  a  room  of  62  to  65  degrees  which  raises  the  cream  in 
36  hours,  when  it  is  skimmed.  In  warm,  muggy  weather 
and  thunder  showers,  it  is  skimmed  sooner.  He  considers 
it  important  to  skim  at  just  the  right  time.  His  churn- 
ing is  done  by  horse  power  in  a  rotating,  rectangular  box 
churn,  having  neither  floats  nor  dasher  inside.  The 
churning  is  done  upon  the  first  appearance  of  acidity, 
and  is  put  into  the  churn  at  58  to  65  degrees  according  to 
outside  temperature.  Time  of  churning,  30  to  45  min- 
utes. Churning  ceases  as  soon  as  butter  comes,  and  be- 
fore it  is  gathered  into  a  mass.  The  butter-milk  is  then 
drawn  off,  and  clear  cold  brine  put  in,  and  the  churn  gent- 
ly agitated,  till  the  brine,  butter  and  butter-milk  are  well 
mixed,  when  it  is  drawn  off  and  more  cold  brine  is  added, 
and  the  same  process  repeated  till  the  butter-milk  is  all 
removed,  as  it  will  quickly  be,  without  working  the  butter  ■ 
at  all,  and  the  butter  left  in  fine  hard  granules  or  lumps, 
and  in  the  best  possible  condition  for  receiving  salt.  The 
butter-milk  being  out.  the  butter  is  seasoned  with  three- 
quarters  of  an  ounce  of  salt  to  the  pound,  and  set  away 
till  the  next  day,  when  it  is  worked  and  packed  in  tubs 
prepared  by  soaking  in  strong  brine. 


milk,  butter  and  cheese.  75 

Cheese. 

When  milk  is  left  to  itself  for  a  certain  length  of  time 
it  becomes  sour  and  curdles,  but  the  curd  and  whey  do 
not  readily  separate  unless  a  gentle  heat  is  applied,  when 
the  curd  contracts  in  bulk  and  floats  upon  the  whey,  or 
is  placed  in  a  perforated  cheese  vat  which  allows  the  whey 
to  flow  from  it.  The  natural  curdling  of  the  milk  is  pro- 
duced by  the  lactic  acid,  but  in  the  manufacture  of  cheese 
it  is  not  usual  to  allow  the  milk  to  sour  and  curdle  of  its 
own  accord.  The  process  is  hastened  by  the  use  of  acids 
or  of  some  substance  such  as  rennet.  A  good  way  to 
prepare  the  rennet  is  to  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  put  it  in  a 
jar  with  a  handful  or  two  of  salt  in  one  or  two  quarts  of 
water  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  two  or  three  days,  after- 
wards pour  on  it  another  pint  and  allow  it  to  stand  two 
days  more,  then  strain  and  bottle  the  whole  for  future  use. 
In  this  state  it  may  keep  for  several  months.  The  milk 
should  be  raised  to  a  temperature  of  900,  or  95 °  F.,  and 
the  rennet  mixed  with  it.  The  quantity  used  varies  from 
a  tablespoonful  to  half  a  pint  for  thirty  or  forty  gallons  of 
milk.  The  time  for  the  complete  fixing  of  the  curd  also 
varies  from  fifteen  minutes  to  an  hour  or  more.  Great 
care  should  be  taken  in  warming  the  milk,  that  it  is  not 
singed.  In  large  dairies,  a  safe  way  is  to  have  a  pot  with 
a  double  bottom  after  the  manner  of  a  glue  pot,  and  have 
the  space  filled  with  water.  In  heating  it  is  desirable  not 
to  raise  the  temperature  too  high,  as  great  heat  is  apt  to 
give  an  oiliness  to  the  fatty  matter  of  the  milk.  The 
curd  should  be  broken  up  as  soon  as  it  coagulates,  as  the 
longer  it  stands  after  this  the  harder  and  tougher  it  be- 
comes. The  quantity  of  the  rennet  should  be  regulated 
carefully,  as  too  much  makes  the  curd  tough,  and  too  lit- 
tle causes  loss  of  time,  and  will  permit  a  large  portion  of 
the  butter  to  separate  from  the  curd.  In  salting  cheese, 
as  in  butter,  the  salt  should  be  pure,  and  can  be  obtained 
for  that  purpose  in  the  same  manner.  Cheese,  like  butter, 
depends  in  a  great  degree  for  its  richness  on  the  richness 
of  the  milk,  and  is  also  susceptible  to  the  various  flavors 


76  MILK,  BUTTER   AND   CHEESE. 

which  affect  the  milk.  It  may  be  improved  in  quality  by 
the  addition  of  cream  or  butter  to  the  dried  and  crumbled 
curd  but  it  must  be  thoroughly  worked  in.  The  Raeckern 
cheese  of  Belgium  is  made  by  adding  half  an  ounce  of 
butter  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  to  every  pound  of  pressed 
cheese.  New  varieties  of  cheese  are  formed  by  mixing 
vegetable  substances  with  the  curd.  A  green  decoction  of 
two  parts  sage  leaves,  one  of  marigold,  and  a  little  parsley, 
gives  color  and  flavor  to  the  green  cheese. 

The  method  of  curing  has  a  great  effect  upon  the  cheese; 
care  in  salting,  warmth  of  the  place  where  kept,  tempera- 
ture and  closeness  of  cheese-room  in  which  they  are  stored, 
often  turning,  and  cleaning  from  mould,  and  rubbing  with 
butter.  All  these  have  due  influence  upon  the  cheese. 
Time  and  care  must  be  bestowed  in  cheese  making  in  or- 
der to  produce  rich  cheese,  and  by  varying  the  mode  of 
curing,  and  especially  the  temperature  at  which  they  are 
kept,  an  almost  endless  variety  may  be  produced.  In 
conclusion  we  will  recommend  to  all  who  may  be  interested 
in  cheese  making,  a  thorough  study  of  Johnson's  Agricul- 
tural Chemistry,  to  which  we  are  largely  indebted  for 
what  we  have  written  on  milk,  butter  and  cheese.  The 
result  will  richly  repay  one  for  the  study. 

Cheese  Making. 

Strain  the  night's  milk  into  the  tub;  in  the  morning 
take  off  the  cream,  put  it  over  a  clear  fire,  stirring  con- 
stantly, when  hot,  add  part  of  the  milk;  heat  it  enough  to 
make  the  milk  which  is  still  in  the  tub  quite  warm,  but  not 
hot;  pour  it  back  into  the  tub,  and  strain  in  the  morning's 
milk.  Put  in  a  spoonful  or  two  of  rennet,  stir  it  well,  and 
let  it  stand  half  an  hour;  if  the  curd  does  not  form  well 
by  that  time,  add  more  rennet.  When  the  curd  is  well 
formed,  cut  it  in  squares,  making  the  knife  go  down  to 
the  bottom  of  the  tub  at  every  stroke;  let  it  stand  fifteen 
minutes  for  the  whey  to  separate.  Then  break  it  up  gent- 
ly, putting  the  spoon  down  through  all  parts;  it  must  be 
done  gently,  or  some  of  the  milk  will  be  lost  in  the  whey. 


MILK,  BUTTER   AND   CHEESE.  77 

This  causes  white  whey;  the  greener  the  whey,  the  richer 
the  cheese.  Lay  the  strainer  on  top  of  the  curd,  and  dip 
off  the  whey  that  presses  up  through,  until  you  have  taken 
about  a  third  of  it;  put  this  over  the  fire  to  heat.  When 
hot,  pour  it  back  upon  the  curd,  and  break  it  up  small  and 
as  quickly  as  possible;  then  lay  the  strainer  into  the  cheese 
basket,  and  pour  the  curd  in  to  drain.  When  this  is  done, 
return  it  to  the  tub,  salt  it,  put  it  again  into  the  strainer,  and 
then  into  the  cheese  hoop.  Lay  the  strainer  over  smooth; 
lay  a  follower  upon  it,  put  it  into  the  press,  and  press  it  tight; 
let  it  stay  two  days,  and  increase  the  pressure  four  or  five 
times,  turning  the  cheese  over  each  time.  Then  turn  the 
cheese  out  upon  a  shelf,  in  a  dark  closet,  or  room,  secure 
from  flies.  Every  day  rub  the  side  that  has  lain  upon  the 
shelf,  and  turn  it  over;  rub  it  all  over  with  butter  often; 
these  things  must  be  done  for  six  months. 

If  cheese  is  rich,  a  strip  of  new  cotton  as  wide  as  the 
thickness  of  the  cheese,  should  be  sewed  tight  around  it, 
when  first  taken  from  the  press,  else  it  would  soon  melt 
out  of  shape.  Cheese  rubbed  now  and  then  with  butter 
sprinkled  with  red  pepper,  will  be  a  good  plan  when  flies 
are  about. 

Cottage  Cheese. 

Let  the  milk  be  turned  by  rennet,  or  by  setting  it  in  a 
warm  place.  It  must  not  be  heated,  as  the  oily  parts  will 
then  pass  off,  and  the  richness  is  lost.  When  fully  turned, 
put  in  a  coarse  linen  bag,  and  hang  it  to  drain  several 
hours,  till  all  the  whey  is  out.  Then  mash  it  fine,  salt  it 
to  the  taste,  and  thin  it  with  good  cream,  or  add  but  little 
cream,  and  roll  it  into  balls.     A  little  butter  improves  it. 


MEAT  MAXIMS. 


Meats  roast  much  better  in  a  closely  covered  dish 
made  for  the  purpose. 

If  fresh  meats  become  soiled  before  cooking  trim  the 
soil  off.     Do  not  wash  it. 

If  meat  or  fish  are  washed,  they  should  be  carefully 
dried   with    a   napkin  before  cooking. 

To  boil  or  roast  fresh  meat  it  should,  at  the  first  instant, 
be  plunged  in  boiling  water. 

Salt  meats  should  be  put  to  cook  in  cold  water. 

Meats  should  not  boil  furiously,  but  simmer. 
-    Much  good   meat   is    spoiled   by  not  being  skimmed 
properly. 

Corned  beef  should  be  allowed  to  cool  in  the  liquor  in 
which  it  is  cooked. 

Nothing  improves  a  piece  of  meat  so  much  as  a  sharp 
knife  with  which  to  cut  it. 

There  is  as  much  in  cutting  a  roast  as  in  cooking  it. 

Many  people  sharpen  the  table  knives  ;  it  makes  the 
meat  seem  tenderer. 

Do  not  season  food  too  highly;  people  differ  in  tastes. 

Pork  and  fish  should  cook  slowly. 

If  eggs  are  cooked  too  fast  or  too  long,  they  become 
wheyey. 

To  make  browned  gravies,  brown  the  flour  as  you 
brown  coffee.     You  can  keep  a  little  stock  of  it  in  store. 

If  milk  gravies  are  cooked  too  much  or  too  fast  they 
are  apt  to  curdle. 

To  heat  over  oyster  soup,  skim  out  the  oysters,  heat 
the  liquor  and  turn  over  them.  They  are  as  good  as 
when  fresh  cooked. 


MEAT    MAXIMS.  79 

If  you  cannot  open  clams,  pour  boiling  water  over 
them  and  they  will  open  themselves. 

Lard  or  grease  may  be  cleansed  by  slicing  raw  potato 
into  it,  and  boiling  it.  Fat  in  which  fritters  or  cakes  have 
been  cooked,  also  sausage  grease,  may  be  cleansed  in  this 
way. 

To  cleanse  rancid  butter  boil  it  with  twice  the  amount 
of  water  and  shake  it  well,  and  repeat  till  cleansed. 

Custards  put  in  the  cups  and  steamed  for  ten  minutes 
are  fully  as  nice  as  when  baked. 

Tainted  meat  or  fowl  may  be  made  sweet  by  boiling 
with  a  piece  of  charcoal. 

Scrambled  eggs  overdone,  are  spoiled. 

Meat  hash  on  toast  is  nice  for  breakfast. 

Dropped  eggs  on  toast  are  nice  for  tea. 

Never  put  butter  or  meat  on  to  cold  iron  to  cook. 

Pork  steak  is  nicer  baked  than  fried. 

Keep  milk,  butter  and  eggs  at  a  good  distance  from 
anything  having  a  rank  odor,  as  onions,  lobster,  fish,  etc. 

Beef  steak  can  be  nicely  broiled  in  a  spider,  by  having 
the  spider  hot — not  warm — when  it  is  put  in.  Do  not 
salt  till  it  is  done. 


HYGIENIC  EFFECT  OF  ANIMAL  FOOD. 

Soup 

Soup  has  but  little  nutritious  value  compared  with 
most  kinds  of  food.  The  joints  of  meat,  which  are 
usually  selected  for  soups  contain  a  great  amount  of  gel- 
atine which  has  very  little  nutrition,  and  is  principally 
useful  as  waste  matter  to  keep  the  bowels  in  action.  To 
a  person  of  sedentary  habits  or  who  is  costively  inclined, 
they  are  excellent  for  this  purpose,  but  they  form  but 
little  blood,  bone  or  muscle,  and  give  but  little  heat  to 
the  body. 

Lean  Meats.     (Fresh.) 

Lean  beef  contains  about  twenty-five  per  cent,  of  ma- 
terial for  muscle,  but  can  never  be  eaten  alone,  not  having 
the  necessary  carbon  to  produce  heat.  Either  fat  or 
starchy  food  is  required  to  supply  the  lungs  with  fuel, 
fat  being  best  in  winter  and  starch  in  summer.  The  lean 
meat  (muscle)  of  an  animal  which  has  led  an  active  life 
is  much  harder  and  firmer  and  takes  more  time  to  digest 
than  one  that  has  only  lived  in  a  stall.  Tender  meats 
are  more  digestible  than  tough  ones  because  they  can  be 
so  separated  by  the  teeth  that  gastric  juice  can  act  upon 
them  better.  Lean  beef,  veal,  mutton  and  pork  do  not 
vary  greatly  in  their  elements  nor  hygienic  effects.  They 
all  tend  to  produce  muscle,  and  are  best  adapted  to  the 
laboring  man.  Veal  is  more  difficult  to  digest  because 
it  is  slippery  and  difficult  to  chew  properly 

Fat  Meats 

contain  a  great  amount  of  carbon  which  goes  to  produce 
heat.     Fats  are  much  better  food  in  cold  climates  and  in 


HYGIENIC    EFFECT    OF    ANIMAL    FOOD  8 1 

cold  weather  than  in  those  which  are  warmer.  A  due 
amount  of  fatty  matter  is  most  necessary  to  produce  heat, 
but  an  excess  is  very  hurtful,  especially  to  persons  of 
weak  digestion ;  during  the  process  of  digestion  it 
becomes  rancid  and  partially  decomposed  and  often  pro- 
duces heat-burn  and  nausea. 

A  surplus  of  carbonaceous  food  is  apt  to  induce 
inflammatory  troubles,  as  gout  and  inflammatory  rheuma- 
tism. When  such  food  is  used,  it  should  always  be 
accompanied  by  acid  fruits  and  foods.  The  use  of  too 
great  an  amount  of  carbon  food  is  said  to  aggravate  any 
scrofulous  tendancy. 

Salt  Meats 

do  not  digest  so  quickly  nor  so  perfectly  as  fresh  meats. 
For  this  reason  they  are  preferred  by  laboring  men,  as 
they  remain  longer  in  the  stomach,  and  are,  as  they  say, 
"better  to  lean  upon."  Scrofulous  diseases,  as  erysipelas 
and  salt  rheum,  are  often  produced  and  always  aggra- 
vated by  the  too  liberal  use  of  salt  and  fat  food. 

The  five  principal  meats  may  be  classed  as  follows,  the 
first  mentioned  under  each  head  standing  first,  and  the 
last  mentioned  standing  last  : 

For  heat  and  fat — pork,  mutton,  lamb,  beef,  veal. 

For  muscle — beef,  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  pork, 

For  brain  and  nerve — beef,  veal  mutton,  lamb,  pork. 

Fish. 

The  hygienic  effect  of  fish  depends  much  upon  the 
kind  of  fish.  The  most  active  fish  as  trout,  pickerel, 
shad,  etc.,  contain  more  muscle  and  brain  food  than 
common  fish,  as  white  fish,  cod  and  haddock.  But  all 
kinds  of  fish  are  alike  in  having  a  greater  amount  of 
brain  material  than  almost  any  other  kind  of  food.  Prof. 
Agassiz  thought  so  highly  of  fish  for  students  and  think- 
ers that  for  years  he  used  hardly  any  other  kind  of 
animal  food.  But  good  medical  authorities  claim  that 
this  was  really  the  cause  of  his  death,  as  fish  do  not  sup- 


82  HYGIENIC    EFFECT    OF    ANIMAL    FOOD. 

ply  sufficient  of  many  of  the  elements  which  the  system 
requires.  Except  the  fatty  fishes  most  of  them  require 
to  be  cooked  in  lard,  fat  pork  or  butter,  and  to  be  eaten 
with  potatoes  or  some  farinaceous  food  to  supply  the 
requisite  carbon.        « 

Shell-Fish. 

Lobsters,  crabs,  prawn,  shrimp,  etc.,  are  hard  to  digest, 
and  though  good  strong  food,  cannot  be  eaten  with  im- 
punity by  persons  of  weak  digestion,  and  are  most 
miserably  misapplied  to  evening  entertainments  in  form 
of  salads. 

Oysters  are  unsatisfactory  food  for  laboring  men,  but 
will  do  for  the  sedentary  and  for  a  supper  to  sleep  on. 

Eggs 

contain  all  of  the  elements  necessary  to  preserve  health, 
and  are  healthful  when  cooked  in  any  of  the  numberles? 
ways  common. 

Cheese 

has  more  than  twice  the  amount  of  nourishment  of  any 
other  known  substance.  It  must  therefore  be  used  in 
small  quantities  and  with  such  articles  of  food  as  fine 
flour  or  fruit  which  contains  little  nitrogen.  It  is  hard 
of  digestion,  but  there  is  much  in  being  accustomed  to  it. 


ELEMENTS  OF  VEGETABLE  FOOD. 


When  wheat  flour  is  mixed  up  into  a  dough  and  washed 
on  a  linen  cloth  or  sieve,  under  a  stream  of  water,  a  milky 
substance  passes  through  and  gradually  settles  to  the 
bottom  of  the  vessel.  This  substance,  when  dried,  will 
be  found  to  be  a  fine,  snow-white  powder  known  as  starch. 

Starch  is  found  in  (nearly)  all  kinds  of  grains,  seeds, 
roots,  bark,  stems,  pith  and  fruit  of  many  plants.  The 
various  kinds  of  vegetable  food  which  contain  more  or 
less  starch  as  well  as  other  principles  will  be  considered 
in  the  following: 

The  Potato. — Of  all  the  vegetables  which  grow  in  the 
temperate  climate,  the  potato  is  used  the  most  generally 
by  all  classes  of  people.  It  appears  daily  on  the  table  of 
the  rich  and  poor.  The  chemical  elements  of  the  best 
varieties  do  not  vary  greatly;  these  do  however,  vary 
greatly  with  the  season,  ripeness  and  soil.  The  solid 
part  of  the  potato  consists  mainly  of  starch.  It  contains 
about  75  per  cent,  water,  and  also  fat,  sugar  and  salts  in 
smaller  proportion  than  starch.  There  is  in  the  potato  a 
bitter  principle  which  is  poisonous,  and  causes  it  to  turn 
green  if  exposed  to  the  light  while  growing.  Cooking 
changes  this  principle,  therefore  the  water  in  which  pota- 
toes are  boiled,  should  never  be  used  in  the  preparation 
of  other  kinds  of  food. 

Parsnips,  Carrots  and  Turnips  contain  a  greater  propor- 
tion of  water  than  potatoes,  and  are  less  valuable  as  arti- 
cles of  food.  Parsnips  and  carrots  contain  more  sugar 
than  potatoes,  and  all  of  them  less  starch.  Turnips  are 
of  these  three,  the  least  valuable  as  an  article  of  food. 


84  ELEMENTS  OF  VEGETABLE  FOOD. 

The  Beet  is  especially  valuable  as  an  article  of  food  on 
account  of  the  sugar  which  it  contains.  The  French 
prepare  a  large  amount  of  sugar  from  it,  and  make  it  an 
article  of  export. 

Cabbage,  Parsley,  Mustard  and  all  similar  kinds  of  veg- 
etables are  essentially  alike  in  chemical  composition,  con- 
taining water  in  large  proportion,  woody  fibre,  gum  and 
sugar.  They  should  be  well  cooked,  indeed  can  hardly 
be  too  much  cooked,  and  even  then  are  found  to  require 
a  longer  time  for  digestion  than  animal  food. 

Rhubarb  contains  an  agreeable  acid  principle  in  so  large 
proportion  that  it  is  used  for  a  home-made  wine.  It  also 
contains  certain  medicinal  qualities  which  are  found  in 
the  root. 

The  Onion  contains  a  large  amount  of  nitrogenous  mat- 
ter, and  is  for  that  reason  very  nutritive.  It  also  contains 
a  strong  smelling,  sulphurized  oil,  which  gives  it  its  strong 
odor;  this  is  also  found  in  garlic;  sugar  and  vegetable  al- 
bumen is  found  in  it. 

Indian  Corn,  or  Maize  contains  more  oil  or  fatty  matter 
than  any  other  vegetable,  also  albumen,  starch  and  sugar, 
which  adapts  it  for  sustaining  life,  and  furnishing  all  the 
materials  required  for  life,  and  is,  perhaps,  used  more  uni- 
versally for  human  and  animal  food  than  any  other  vege- 
table. 

Oat  Meal  stands  first  in  all  grains  in  point  of  nutriment, 
being  first  in  nitrogenous  element.  It  ranks  next  to  In- 
dian corn  in  quantity  of  fat  or  oil  which  it  contains.  It 
is  rich  in  starch,  also  contains  sugar. 

Rice  is  remarkable  for  its  starchy  property,  possessing 
more  of  it,  than  any  other  grain  or  vegetable,  but  is  most 
deficient  in  oil. 

Buckwheat  consists  of  starch  in  large  proportion,  and 
contains  sugar  and  gluten. 

Seeds. — Of  the  seeds,  such  as  peas  and  beans,  they  vary 
but  little  in  chemical  composition.     Peas  contain  more 


ELEMENTS  OF  VEGETABLE  FOOD.         85 

starch  and  vegetable  caseine  or  legumine  than  beans. 
These  take  the  first  rank  among  nutritive  foods,  but  being 
considered  difficult  of  digestion  are  usually  eaten  with 
other  kinds  of  food. 

Sago  Starch  is  procured  from  the  pith  of  several  varie- 
ties of  the  palm  tree.  It  comes  in  various  forms.  Sago 
meal  or  flour  is  a  whitish  powder. 

Pearl  Sago,  the  kind  in  general  use  for  domestic  pur- 
poses, consists  of  pinkish  or  yellowish  grains,  about  the 
the  size  of  a  pin's  head.  Common  or  brown  sago  con- 
sists of  much  larger  grains,  which  are  of  a  brownish  white 
color,  each  grain  being  brownish  on  one  side  and  whitish 
on  the  other. 

As  all  kinds  of  sago  contain  coloring  matters,  they  are 
considered  inferior  to  those  varieties  of  starch,  as  arrow- 
root and  tapioca  which  are  perfectly  white. 

Tapioca  is  a  variety  of  starch  which  comes  from  South 
America,  and  is  obtained  from  the  root  of  a  plant  con- 
taining a  poisonous  milky  juice.  When  it  appears  as  a 
white  powder,  it  is  called  Brazilian  arrow-root. 

The  term  tapioca  is  commonly  applied  to  that  form  of 
it  which  appears  in  small  irregular  lumps,  caused  by  its 
having  been  dried  on  hot  plates,  and  then  broken  up  into 
fragments. 

Arrow-root. — A  root  growing  in  the  West  Indies  con- 
taining a  juice  supposed  to  be  capable  of  counteracting 
the  effects  of  wounds  inflicted  by  poisonous  arrows.  This 
root  yielded  a  starch  which  took  the  name  of  Maranta 
arrow-root.  But  afterwards  starches  from  other  plants 
which  had  a  resemblance  to  Maranta  starch,  took  also  the 
name  of  arrow-roots.  Thus  there  is  Tahiti  arrow-root, 
Manihot  arrow-root,  from  the  plants  which  yield  tapioca, 
and  potato  arrow-root,  or  British  arrow-root,  as  it  is  some- 
times called.  Maranta  arrow-root,  which  is  a  very  pure, 
white,  starchy  powder,  is  the  most  prized  of  all  varieties, 
but  is  often  adulterated  with  other  and  cheaper  kinds. 

Corn  Starch. — This  is  a  preparation  of   the  starch   of 


86  ELEMENTS  OF  VEGETABLE  FOOD. 

Indian  corn  which  has  been  separated  as  perfectly  as  pos- 
sible from  the  other  constituents  of  the  grain.  Chemical 
*ieans  are  used  to  effect  the  separation.  The  grain  is  re- 
ported to  yield  from  30  to  35  per  cent,  of  pure  starch 
which  bears  a  general  price  about  one-third  greater  than 
wheaten  flour. 

Starch  does  not  dissolve  in  water.  A  starch  grain  is 
composed  of  coats  or  layers  like  an  onion.  By  boiling, 
the  layers  exfoliate  or  unfold,  and  the  grains  swell  to 
twenty  or  thirty  times  their  original  size  and  form  a  thick 
jelly. 

A  cold  jelly  of  starch  and  water  left  to  stand  will  grad- 
ually change,  first  into  gum  and  then  into  sugar.  This 
change  will  be  slow  and  will  take  months  before  the  whole 
is  converted  into  sugar.  If  one  or  two  per  cent,  of  sul- 
phuric acid  is  added  to  the  water,  and  the  starch  is  boiled 
for  some  time  and  then  the  acid  by  similar  means  is  neu- 
tralized and  removed,  and  the  solution  boiled  down,  it 
yields  a  rich  syrup  or  a  solid  sugar. 

Potatoes  treated  in  this  way,  it  is  said,  will  produce  ten 
per  cent,  of  their  weight  in  sugar.  Any  substance  which 
contains  starch,  as  paper,  raw  cotton,  flax,  linen,  and  cot- 
ton rags,  and  even  sawdust,  may  be  changed  into  sugar 
by  the  same  means. 

Starch  has  a  constipating  effect,  because  it  is  so  com- 
pletely absolved,  and  leaves  no  residue  to  excite  the  intes- 
tines to  act.  The  gastric  juice  contains  both  acid  and 
pepsin,  or  "ferment  substance,"  these  acting  on  starch 
tranform  it  into  sugar,  some  of  which  enters  into  the  blood, 
and  it  is  burned  away  for  the  production  of  heat. 

Starchy  food,  more  especially  than  any  other,  should  be 
thoroughly  masticated  before  being  swallowed,  as  its  di- 
gestion depends  almost  entirely  on  its  thorough  intermix- 
ture with  the  saliva  in  the  mouth.  Those  forms  which  are 
more  solid,  such  as  bread  and  potato,  are  better  digested 
than  when  prepared  in  the  form  of  slops,  as  sago,  arrow- 
root, etc.,  because  in  the  latter  form  it  is  swallowed  with- 
out mixing  with  the  saliva. 


ELEMENTS  OF  VEGETABLE  FOOD.  87 

Flour  is  principally  composed  of  starch,  gluten,  sugar 
and  gum.  Of  these,  the  first  two  constitute  about  70  per 
cent. 

Gluten. — If  dough  is  worked  on  a  sieve  under  a  stream 
of  water  we  have  seen  that  the  deposit  in  the  vessel  below 
will,  when  dried,  contain  the  starch,  while  that  substance 
which  remains  on  the  cloth  will  be  found  to  be  a  gray, 
elastic,  tough  substance,  almost  resembling  a  piece  of  an- 
imal skin  in  appearance,  presenting  when  dried,  a  glue- 
like appearance;  hence  its  name,  gluten. 

Good  flour  will  absorb  half  its  weight  in  water.  The 
water  combines  with  the  gluten  which  becomes  tough  and 
elastic.  The  gluten  acts  upon  the  sugar,  changing  it  into 
alcohol  and  carbonic  acid  gas.  The  tough  nature  of  the 
gluten  does  not  allow  the  gas  to  escape,  and  as  it  swells 
or  expands,  the  dough  will  swell  or  "  rise "  to  a  much 
greater  bulk. 

The  best  flour  is  that  in  which  there  is  the  most  gluten, 
and  which  is  the  toughest  and  most  elastic  when  wet. 

Whatever  injury  the  flour  may  sustain  is  manifested  in 
a  change  in  the  gluten,  reducing  the  quantity  and  dimin- 
ishing its  tenacity. 

Flour  dealers  and  bakers  determine  the  quality  of  flour 
by  working  a  handful  into  paste  with  water,  when  its  value 
is  judged  by  the  tenacity  of  the  dough,  the  length  to 
which  it  may  be  drawn  into  a  thread,  or  the  extent  it  may 
be  spread  out  into  a  sheet. 

Maccaroni  and  Vermicelli  are  pastes  formed  from  wheat 
flour  and  made  into  various  shapes  by  pressing  the  paste 
through  holes  in  metallic  plates.  The  flours,  therefore, 
which  are  best  for  these  preparations  are  those  which 
make  the  toughest  paste  and  are  richest  in  gluten.  The 
best  maccaroni  should  retain  its  form,  and  only  swell  after 
long  boiling,  without  running  into  a  mass  or  falling  to 
pieces. 


VEGETABLES. 

To  Boil  Potatoes. 

The  best  potatoes  are  good  boiled  without  paring,  but 
even  these  are  best  pared;  and  poor  potatoes  are  unfit  to 
eat,  boiled  with  the  skins  on.  New  potatoes  are  made 
watery  by  being  laid  in  water,  but  late  in  the  winter,  and 
in  the  spring,  they  should  be  pared  and  laid  in  cold  water 
an  hour  or  two  before  they  are  cooked.  Put  them  into 
boiling  water,  with  salt  in  it,  and  allow  thirty  or  forty 
minutes  for  boiling,  according  to  the  size.  When  they 
are  done  through,  pour  off  the  water,  and  take  the  kettle 
to  the  door,  or  window,  and  shake  them.  Doing  this  in 
the  open  air  makes  them  mealy;  return  them  to  the  fire  a 
minute  or  two,  and  then  serve.  Potatoes  require  nearly 
an  hour  to  bake  in  a  cooking  stove  or  range. 

Potato  Balls. 

Mash  boiled  potatoes  fine,  stir  into  them  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  and  make  them  into  balls;  then  dip  them  into  a  beat- 
en egg,  roll  them  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  brown  them  in 
a  quick  oven;  or  fry  them  in  a  small  quantity  of  nice 
drippings,  and,  in  that  case,  flatten  them  so  they  can  be 
easily  turned,  and  browned  on  both  sides. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Boil  them  according  to  the  directions  in  the  preceding 
recipe,  allowing  twenty  minutes  more  time  before  dinner, 
than  if  they  were  to  be  put  on  the  table  whole.  When 
they  are  dried,  set  off  the  kettle  and  mash  them  in  it  with 
a  wooden  pestle.  Have  ready  a  gill  or  two  of  hot  milk 
or  cream;  if  you  use  milk,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in- 
to it.     Sprinkle  salt  into  the  potato  and  mash  it  until  it  is 


VEGETABLES.  89 

perfectly  fine;  then  pour  in  the  hot  milk  and  mix  it  thor- 
oughly. The  more  it  is  worked  with  the  pestle,  the  whiter 
it  becomes.  Put  it  into  the  dish  for  the  table,  smooth  the 
top  into  proper  shape,  and  set  it  into  the  stove  to  brown. 
To  prepare  it  in  the  nicest  manner,  beat  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  and  spread  over  the  top,  before  putting  it  into  the  oven. 
If  you  do  not  care  to  take  all  this  trouble,  it  is  very  good 
without  being  browned. 

Fried  Potatoes. 

Pare,  wash  and  slice  the  raw  potatoes  very  thin;  this 
can  be  done  with  a  sharp  knife,  but  an  instrument  for  the 
purpose  is  much  better.  When  they  are  sliced,  lay  them 
in  ice  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  then  dry  them  by 
spreading  between  two  cloths.  Have  the  lard  boiling  hot 
in  the  frying-pan,  and  fry  the  potatoes  to  a  light  brown. 
Take  them  from  the  frying-pan  as  soon  a?  they  are  brown 
and  drain  in  a  colander  for  a  moment.  Sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  lay  on  a  napkin  in  a  deep  dish. 

Old  Potatoes. 

When  potatoes  are  poor,  as  they  often  are  in  the  spring, 
pare,  soak,  and  boil  them  as  directed  in  the  first  recipe, 
then  take  two  together  in  a  coarse  cloth,  squeeze  and 
wring  them. 

Potato  Cakes. 

Mould  into  flat  cakes,  cold  mashed  potatoes,  salt  them,, 
and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  until  a  light  brown. 

Potatoes  Heated  in  Milk. 

To  make  a  very  good  dish  for  breakfast,  cut  cold  pota- 
toes quite  small,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  or  spider, 
with  milk  enough  to  almost,  but  not  entirely  cover  them. 
When  the  milk  becomes  hot,  stir  and  mash  the  potatoes 
with  a  large  spoon  until  there  are  no  lumps.  Add  salt, 
and  a  small  bit  of  butter,  stir  it  often,  until  it  is  as  dry  as 
you  wish  to  have  it.  It  is  a  nicer  dish,  when  prepared 
12 


•90  VEGETABLES. 

with  so  much  milk  that  a  good  deal  of  stirring  is  neces- 
sary to  make  it  dry,  than  if  done  in  but  a  small  quantity. 

Sweet  Potatoes. 

They  are  best  baked;  are  very  nice  boiled  till  tender, 
and  then  pared  and  laid  into  the  oven  to  brown.  They 
require  a  third  longer  time  to  cook  than  the  common  po- 
tato. Cold  sweet  potatoes  are  excellent  sliced  and  browned 
on  the  griddle.  When  one  side  is  done,  sprinkle  salt  over 
before  turning. 

Boiled  Caebage. 

Pick  off  the  outer  green  leaves,  cut  in  quarters;  ex- 
amine carefully  for  the  insects  which  may  get  between  the 
leaves.  Lay  them  for  an  hour  in  cold  water;  then  put 
them  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  cook  twenty  minutes, 
change  the  water,  putting  in  more  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  tender.  It  takes  nearly  an  hour  to  cook  a  good 
sized  cabbage,  when  young;  and  a  longer  time  for  an  old- 
er one.     When  done,  drain  well,  and  serve. 

Ladies  Cabbage. 

Boil  the  cabbage,  as  directed  in  boiled  cabbage.  When 
tender,  drain  and  set  aside  until  cold.  Chop  fine,  and 
then  add  and  stir  well  together,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  the  oven  and  bake  until 
brown. 

Cabbage.     {Boiled in  Milk.) 

Cut  the  cabbage  as  fine  as  it  can  be  sliced,  boil  it  in 
milk  thirty  minutes;  then  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  thicken  with  a  little  flour. 

Sauer  Kraut. 

Line  a  barrel,  keg,  or  jar  with  cabbage  leaves,  on  the 
bottom  and  sides.  Chop  the  cabbage  fine,  and  put  in  a 
layer  three  inches  deep;  press  this  down  well,  and  sprinkle 


VEGETABLES.  91 

with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Pack  in  this  manner 
four  or  five  layers,  press  down  hard  with  a  board  made  to 
fit  loosely  the  inside  of  the  vessel  used  for  the  purpose. 
Place  heavy  weights  on  the  board  or  pound  it  down  with 
a  wooden  beetle,  until  it  is  a  compact  mass,  then  remove 
the  board,  and  put  in  another  layer,  repeating  the  process 
of  pressing  until  the  vessel  is  full.  Cover  with  leaves  and 
replace  the  board  and  weights  to  keep  it  down.  Let  it 
stand  to  ferment;  in  three  weeks  remove  the  scum,  and  if 
necessary  cover  with  water.  This  should  be  kept  in  a  cool 
dry  cellar.     To  be  eaten  raw  or  boiled. 

Boiled  Cauliflower. 

Pick  the  leaves  and  cut  off  the  stalk  close  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  bunches  of  flowers.  It  should  be  cut  in  quar- 
ters if  very  large.  Tie  it  in  a  coarse  lace  or  tarlatan  bag 
to  prevent  it  breaking,  and  put  it  into  boiling  water,  salted, 
and  cook  until  tender.  When  done,  turn  it  in  a  hot  dish 
and  pour  over  it  a  large  cupful  of  drawn  butter.  Do  not 
let  it  stay  in  the  water  after  it  is  done  as  it  will  darken. 
Serve  hot. 

Broccoli  and  Eggs. 

Boil  two  or  three  heads  of  broccoli  until  tender.  Put 
buttered  toast  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  and  lay  on 
the  toast  the  heads  of  broccoli  arranged  with  the  stems 
downward,  and  pour  over  the  whole  two  cupfuls  of  drawn 
butter,  into  which  four  eggs  have  been  beaten  while  hot. 
Serve  hot. 

Mashed  Turnips. 

Peel  the  turnips  and  put  them  on  to  cook  in  cold  water, 
slightly  salted.  Boil  until  tender;  drain  and  mash  with  a 
wooden  spoon  or  potato  masher.  Stir  in  a  spoonful  of 
butter,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  cut  in  quite  thin  slices;  make  a  forcemeat  of 
bread  crumbs,  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sugar.     Put 


92  VEGETABLES. 

in  a  pudding-dish  the  sliced  tomatoes  and  forcemeat  in 
alternate  layers.  Spread  the  forcemeat  quite  thick  upon 
each  layer;  when  the  dish  is  nearly  full  put  on  a  layer  of 
tomatoes  and  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  slice.  Sprinkle  in 
a  little  sugar  and  pepper.  Strew  the  whole  with  dry 
bread  crumbs,  cover  and  bake  a  half  hour,  then  remove 
the  cover  and  brown. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Loosen  the  skins  by  pouring  scalding  water  upon  them; 
peel  and  cut  them  up,  extracting  the  hard  part  of  the  stem- 
end,  and  removing  all  unripe  portions.  Stew  in  a  tin  or 
porcelain  sauce-pan,  half  an  hour,  when  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Stew  gently  fifteen  minutes  longer, 
and  serve.  Some  cooks  thicken  the  tomatoes  with  a  little 
grated  bread. 

Raw  Tomatoes. 

Pare  with  a  sharp  knife,  as  it  impairs  the  flavor  to  re- 
move the  skins  with  hot  water.  Slice  and  lay  in  a  dish. 
Season  with  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  Pieces  of  ice  laid 
on  the  slices  improve  them  very  much. 

Raw  Cucumeers. 

Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  for  a  half  hour  or  more,  then 
wipe  and  slice  thin.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  vine- 
gar. They  are  improved  by  laying  bits  of  ice  in  with  the 
slices.  Some  people  who  cannot  eat  them  in  vinegar  find 
them  a  very  nice  relish  eaten  with  salt.  Thin  slices  of 
onion  laid  in  the  dish  with  the  cucumbers,  are  an  improve- 
ment. Cucumbers  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place;  they 
are  better  to  be  eaten  the  same  day  they  are  gathered. 

Fried  Cucumbers. 

Pare  and  lay  in  ice-water  half  an  hour.  Cut  length- 
wise into  slices  nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  and  lay  in  ice- 
water  ten  minutes  longer.     Wipe  each  piece  dry  with  a 


VEGETABLES.  93 

soft  cloth,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dredge  with 
flour.     Fry  to  a  delicate  brown,  in  nice  lard  or  butter. 

Green  Peas. 

If  peas  are  young  and  fresh  (and  none  others  are  good) 
they  will  boil  in  half  an  hour  or  thirty-five  minutes.  They 
should  be  put  into  cold  water,  without  salt.  When  ten- 
der, drain  them  through  a  colander,  and  dish,  adding  a 
little  butter  and  salt.  When  the  peas  are  old,  put  a  little 
soda  in  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled. 

Asparagus.     No.  i. 

Wash  it,  trim  off  the  white  ends,  and  tie  it  up  in  bunches 
with  a  twine  or  a  strip  of  old  cotton.  Throw  them  into 
boiling  water  with  salt  in  it.  Boil  twenty-five  minutes  or 
half  an  hour.  Have  ready  two  or  three  slices  of  toasted 
bread,  dip  them  in  the  water  and  lay  them  in  the  dish. 
Spread  them  with  butter  and  lay  the  bunches  of  asparagus 
upon  the  toast.  Cut  the  strings  with  scissors  and  draw 
them  out  without  breaking  the  stalks;  lay  thin  shavings  of 
butter  over  the  asparagus,  and  send  it  to  the  table. 

Asparagus.     No.  2. 

Cut  the  asparagus  in  pieces  a  half-inch  long,  boil  in  wa- 
ter with  a  little  salt,  and  add  rich,  sweet  cream  to  thicken. 

Asparagus.     No.  3. 

Take  the  green  heads  of  young  asparagus,  and  cut  into 
pieces  no  larger  than  peas;  put  them  in  boiling  water  with 
a  little  salt,  and  boil  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  Drain  a  min- 
ute or  two  on  a  napkin;  then  put  into  a  stew-pan  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  sprig  of  mint,  a  half  cup  of 
cream,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  as  much  sugar;  stew  for 
ten  minutes;  then  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs; 
and  in  three  minutes  more,  turn  the  asparagus  out  on  a 
dish,  and  serve  in  the  sauce  with  sippets  of  fried  bread. 


94  VEGETABLES. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Boil  them  one  hour  in  salted  water,  or  half  an  hour  m 
clear  water,  then  drain  the  water  off,  cover  them  with 
milk,  and  boil  until  tender.  When  dished,  put  a  little- 
butter  and  a  very  little  pepper  on  them. 

Fried  Onions. 

Cut  the  onions  in  thin  slices;  turn  over  them  a  quart  of 
boiling  water,  let  them  stand  half  an  hour;  drain  and 
wipe  them  dry  with  a  cloth;  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  have  ready  some  hot  butter  or  nice- 
drippings.     Fry  them  a  nice  brown. 

Stewed  Green  Corn. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  and  stew  fifteen  minutes  in 
boiling  water;  then  turn  off  most  of  the  water  and  cover 
with  milk,  and  stew  until  tender.  When  nearly  done,  rub- 
smooth  a  very  little  flour  into  butter  and  put  in.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Cold  boiled  corn  can  be  used  in 
the  same  way,  using  the  milk  only;  stew  for  a  few  min- 
utes. 

Boiled  Green  Corn. 

Throw  the  ears,  when  husked,  into  a  kettle  of  boiling; 
water,  slightly  salted,  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Serve  in  a 
napkin.  Or,  you  can  cut  from  the  cob  while  hot,  and  sea- 
son with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Hulled  Corn. 

The  white,  yellow,  or  sweet  corn  may  be*  used.  Soak, 
the  corn  over  night  in  warm  water,  and  in  the  morning 
put  it  in  an  iron  kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover  it.  To 
each  quart  of  corn,  put  in  a  rounding  tablespoonful  of 
soda  or  saleratus,  and  boil  until  the  hulls  come  off  readily; 
then  wash  in  several  clear  waters,  and  after  it  is  thorough- 
ly washed,  put  it  on  to  boil  again  in  clear  water.  Boil 
until  tender,  and  then  salt  it,  and  let  it  boil  a  little  longer. 
Turn  into  a  sieve  and  drain  thoroughly. 


vegetables.  95 

Succotash. 

Ten  or  twelve  ears  of  sweet  green  corn,  boiled  on  the 
ear,  in  a  kettle  containing  a  small  piece  of  fresh  beef;  also 
one  quart,  or  less,  of  Lima,  or  common  garden  beans. 
When  done  cut  the  corn  from  the  ear,  mix  with  the  beans 
and  a  small  quantity  of  the  liquid  from  the  kettle,  one 
cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  with  plenty  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  Place  on  the  stove,  allowing  it  to  come  to  aboil; 
then  serve. 

Corn  Patties. 

Take  a  coarse  grater,  and  grate  green  corn.  To  every 
quart  add  three  eggs,  and  one  pint  of  milk;  thicken  with 
flour  to  a  stiff  batter,  and  fry  in  lard  mixed  with  butter 
and  salt. 

Spinage. 

Put  it  into  a  net,  or  a  bag  of  coarse  muslin,  kept  for  the 
purpose,  and  boil  it  in  plenty  of  water  salted,  for  half 
an  hour.  All  kinds  of  greens  should  be  boiled  in  plenty 
of  water,  else  they  will  be  bitter.  Drain  your  spinage 
thoroughly,  lay  it  in  a  dish,  put  upon  the  top  hard  boiled 
eggs,  sliced,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  it.  Another 
way,  is  to  press  it  between  two  plates,  then  put  it  into  a 
sauce-pan  with  a  small  bit  of  butter,  salt,  and  a  little  cream,, 
and  boil  it  up. 

Botled  Carrots. 

Wash  and  scrape  well;  if  large,  cut  in  a  few  pieces  and 
lay  in  cold  wat«er.  Put  in  boiling  water,  salted,  and  cook 
until  tender.  Large  carrots  will  require  an  hour  and  a 
half  to  cook.  Young  carrots  should  not  be  scraped,  only 
washed.     Season  with  butter  and  serve  hot. 

Salsify,  or  Oyster  Plant.     {Stewed.) 

Scrape  the  roots  and  drop  into  cold  water  as  soon  as 
cleaned.  Cut  in  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  put  into  boiling 
water  enough  to  cover  them.     Stew  until  tender;  turn  off 


96  VEGETABLES. 

nearly  all  the  water  and  put  in  a  cupful  of  cold  milk; 
cook  ten  minutes  after  this  begins  to  boil.  Rub  a  little 
flour  into  considerable  butter  and  put  it  in.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.     Boil  up  once  more  and  serve  hot. 

Beets. 

They  must  not  be  scraped  or  cut,  as  they  would  then 
lose  their  color  and  sweetness.  Salt  the  water,  and  boil 
them  for  an  hour  in  summer,  and  in  the  winter  for  three 
hours.  Cold  beets  make  a  nice  pickle,  if  cut  in  slices,  and 
put  into  vinegar. 

Boiled  Parsnips. 

Scrape  if  young,  before  cooking;  if  old,  pare,  and  split 
if  they  are  large.  Put  them  into  boiling  water  and  cook 
from  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes.  If  they  are  full  grown 
they  will  require  an  hour  or  more  to  cook  tender.  Drain 
them,  slice  lengthwise  and  butter  when  ready  for  the  table. 

Fried  Parsnips. 

Boil  until  tender,  scrape  off  the  skin,  and  cut  in  thick 
lengthwise  pieces.  Dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard, 
turning  when  one  side  is  browned.  Drain  off  all  the  fat; 
pepper  them  and  serve  hot. 

Parsnip  Stew. 

Take  as  many  slices  of  salt  pork  as  you  have  people 
to  dine.  To  six  slices,  put  six  good  sized  sliced  parsnips, 
and  eight  or  nine  potatoes  peeled  and  sliced.  Let  the 
pork  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  add  parsnips  and 
potatoes,  and  boil  till  tender.  Add  slices  of  bread,  and 
salt  if  needed. 

String  or  "Snap"  Beans. 

Break  off  the  tops  and  bottoms  and  "string"  carefully. 
Then  pare  both  edges  with  a  sharp  knife,  to  be  certain 
that  no  remnant  of  the  tough  fibre  remains.  Cut  the 
beans  in  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  lay  in  cold  water  with 


VEGETABLES.  97 

a  little  salt  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Drain  them 
and  put  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water.  Boil  quickly 
twenty  minutes  if  well  grown,  less  if  small,  or  until  tender. 
Drain  in  a  colander  until  the  water  ceases  to  drip  from 
them.     Dish  with  a  great  spoonful  of  butter  stirred  in. 

Shelled  Beans,  or  Lima. 

Shell,  and  let  them  lie  awhile  in  cold  water.  Put  them 
in  boiling  water,  salted,  and  cook  until  tender.  Large 
ones  will  require  nearly  an  hour  to  cook;  a  half  hour  or 
forty  minutes  is  long  enough  for  small  ones.  Drain  them 
and  add  butter  and  pepper. 

Baked  Squash. 

Cut  in  pieces,  scrape  well,  and  bake  from  one  to  one  and 
a  half  hours,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  squash;  to  be 
eaten  with  salt  and  butter  as  sweet  potatoes. 

Summer  Squash. 

If  the  rind  is  tender,  boil  it  whole,  in  a  little  bag  kept 
for  the  purpose.  Put  it  in  boiling  water,  and  cook  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Take  the  bag  into  a  pan  and  press 
it  with  the  edge  of  a  plate  or  with  a  ladle,  until  the  water 
is  out;  then  turn  the  squash  out  into  a  dish,  add  salt  and 
butter,  and  smooth  over  the  top. 

Winter  Squash. 

Cut  it  up  and  take  out  the  inside.  Pare  the  pieces  and 
stew  in  as  little  water  as  possible.  If  you  have  a  tin  with 
holes  in  it,  which  will  fit  the  kettle  and  keep  the  squash 
from  touching  the  water,  it  is  the  nicest  way  to  steam  it. 
Be  careful  it  does  not  burn.  It  will  cook  in  an  hour. 
Mash  it  in  a  dish,  or  if  watery,  squeeze  it  in  a  coarse  cloth 
like  summer  squash.  Stir  in  butter  and  salt,  and  if  you 
like  add  pepper. 
13 


98  vegetables. 

Celery. 

Cut  off  the  roots,  and  take  off  the  greenest,  toughest 
stalks.  Wash  and  scrape  the  blanched  stalks  which  grow 
nearest  the  heart.  Lay  in  cold  water  until  it  is  sent  to  the 
table.  Serve  in  a  celery  glass  without  seasoning.  Each 
person  will  dip  in  salt  for  himself. 

Radishes. 

A  little  while  before  using,  lay  them  upon  ice,  or  put 
them  in  cold  water.  To  prepare  them  for  the  table,  cut 
off  the  leaves;  then  scrape  them,  and  put  them  in  a 
tumbler  with  ice-water.  Serve  with  salt,  or  pepper  and 
vinegar. 

Fried  Egg  Plant. 

Slice  the  egg  plant  half  an  inch  thick;  pare  each  piece 
carefully,  and  lay  in  salt  and  water,  putting  a  plate  upon 
the  topmost  to  keep  it  under  the  brine,  and  let  them  lie 
for  an  hour  or  more.  Wipe  each  slice;  dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  well  done 
and  nicely  browned. 

Mushrooms. 

There  is  great  difference  of  opinion  in  regard  to  the 
varieties  of  mushroom  which  can  be  safely  eaten,  and  un- 
less one  has  learned  to  distinguish  between  the  edible  kind 
and  the  poisonous,  it  is  not  safe  to  have  any  thing  to  do 
with  them.  If  they  have  an  offensive  smell,  a  bitter  as- 
tringent taste,  or  even  an  unpleasant  flavor,  they  are  unfit 
for  food.  Color  and  texture  can  not  with  absolute  certainty 
be  relied  on.  The  pale  or  sulphur  yellow,  bright  or  blood 
red  and  greenish  are  generally  poisonous.  The  safe  kinds 
have  mostly  a  compact  brittle  texture;  the  flesh  is  white; 
they  grow  more  readily  in  open  places,  than  in  damp  or 
shady  spots.  The  edible  kinds  are  most  plenty  in  August 
and  September.  The  heads  of  these  are  round  when  they 
spring  up,  and  as  they  grow,  the  lower  parts  unfold,  and 
show  a  lining  fringed  with  salmon  color,  the  stalks  and 


VEGETABLES.  99 

top  are  a  dirty  white.  The  skin  can  be  more  easily  peeled 
from  the  edges,  than  from  the  poisonous  kinds.  If  an 
onion  is  boiled  in  the  pot  with  the  mushrooms  and  turns 
black,  they  are  poisonous,  or  if  in  stirring  them  with  a  sil- 
ver spoon,  it  blackens,  they  should  not  be  eaten. 

Mushrooms.     {Ste7ved.) 

Select  button  mushrooms.  Cut  off  the  stalks  and  wipe 
clean  with  a  wet  flannel  cloth.  Put  them  in  a  sauce-pan, 
cover  with  cold  water  and  stew  gently  fifteen  minutes. 
Rub  a  little  flour  smooth  in  a  spoonful  of  butter  and  add 
it  with  a  little  salt.  Whip  up  an  egg  in  three  or  four  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  stir  in  without  letting  it  boil, 
and  serve. 

Mushrooms.     {Bi-oiled.) 

You  must  be  careful  to  get  a  wholesome  one;  peel  it 
carefully,  grease  the  bars  of  a  gridiron,  lay  your  mush- 
room on  with  the  stalk  uppermost.  Do  not  turn  it;  in 
seven  minutes  it  will  be  full  of  delicious  ketchup  which 
you  must  be  careful  not  to  spill  in  taking  off. 

Greens. 

Cabbage  plants,  turnip  or  mustard  tops,  the  roots  and 
tops  of  young  beets,  cowslips,  dandelions,  and  various 
other  things,  make  a  good  dish  in  the  spring.  When 
boiled  enough,  they  will  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle. 
Some  require  an  hour,  and  others  less  time.  Turnip- 
tops  will  boil  enough  in  twenty  minutes.  Put  salt  in  the 
water,  unless  you  boil  pork  with  them. 

Baked  Maccaroni. 

Break  half  a  pound  of  pipe  maccaroni  in  pieces  an 
inch  long,  and  put  into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  water 
slightly  salted.  Stew  gently  twenty  minutes.  It  should 
be  soft  but  not  broken  or  split.  Drain  well  and  put  a 
layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pie  or  pudding-dish; 
upon  this  grate  some  mild,  rich  cheese,  and  scatter  over 


tOO  VEGETABLES. 

it  some  bits  of  butter.  Spread  upon  the  cheese  more 
maccaroni,  and  fill  the  dish  in  this  order,  having  macca- 
roni  at  the  top,  buttered  well,  without  the  cheese.  Add 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  and  a  very  little  salt. 
Bake  covered,  half  an  hour,  then  brown  nicely,  and  serve 
in  the  bake-dish. 

Maccaroni  with  Cheese. 

j£  pound  of  maccaroni. 

2  ounces  of  cheese  (near  the  rind.) 

r  pint  of  milk. 

Wash  and  break  the  pipe  maccaroni  in  pieces  an  inch 
long,  and  let  it  boil  gently  in  water  slightly  salted,  half  an 
hour.  Strain  it  off  and  put  in  the  milk,  let  it  simmer  one 
hour,  and  then  spread  in  layers  in  a  deep  dish.  Upon 
each  layer  spread  the  grated  cheese  and  scatter  in  bits  ot 
butter,  fill  the  dish  in  this  manner.     Brown  it  in  the  oven. 


ADDITIONAL     RECIPES.  101 


VEGETABLE  ACIDS. 


The  sourness  of  fruits  and  succulent  vegetables  is  due 
to  various  acids  produced  in  the  plants,  and  which  they 
contain  usually  in  quite  small  quantities.  They  exist  in 
two  states:  ist,  as  pure  acids,  or  free,  when  they  are 
strongest,  and  2d,  combined  with  bases,  as  potash,  lime, 
etc.,  by  which  they  are  partly  neutralized,  and  thus  ren- 
dered less  pungent  to  the  taste.  Their  nutritive  value  is 
very  low. 

Acid  of  Apples.  Malic  Acid  was  first  obtained  from  the 
juice  of  the  apple,  but  it  is  also  found  in  numerous  small 
fruits.  It  exists  very  abundantly  in  green  apples,  hence 
their  acidity  which  diminishes  as  they  ripen.  No  use  is 
made  of  this  acid  in  a  separate  state. 

Acid  of  Lemons.  Citric  Acid  is  obtained  chiefly  from 
the  lemon  (citron).  Citric  acid  is  prepared  by  saturating 
the  lemon  juice  with  lime  and  then  the  citrate  of  lime,  so 
formed,  mixed  with  several  times  its  weight  of  warm  water 
is  decomposed  with  sulphuric  acid.  The  clear  liquid  is 
then  drawn  off  and  evaporated  until  the  crystals  of  citric 
acid  are  deposited  as  the  solution  cools.  Artificial  lemon 
juice  is  produced  by  redissolving  the  crystals  in  water  and 
flavoring  with  essence  of  lemon. 

Acid  of  Grapes.  Tartaric  Acid.  This  acid  in  the  free 
state  exists  in  the  grape  and  is  found  in  some  other  fruits. 
When  the  expressed  juice  of  the  grape  is  fermented  as  in 
the  manufacture  of  wine,  the  tartaric  acid  in  combination 
with  potash,  separates  from  the  liquor,  and  deposits  itself 
as  a  crust  upon  the  interior  of  the  casks,  and  in  this  con- 
dition is  known  in  commerce  as  crude  tartar.     The  pure 


VEGETABLE   ACIDS.  XO3 

acid  obtained  from  this  source  is  a  white  crystallized  solid, 
soluble  in  water  and  of  an  agreeable  acid  taste.  Tartaric 
acid  is  chiefly  employed  in  dyeing. 

Oxalic  Acid  exists  in  sorrel  and  also  in  the  garden  rhu- 
bard  or  pie  plant  combined  with  and  partially  neutralized 
by  potash  or  lime.  It  is  a  prompt  and  mortal  poison 
when  pure,  and  fatal  results  frequently  occur  from  mistak- 
ing its  crystals  for  those  of  Epsom  salts,  which  they  much 
resemble.  It  possesses  an  intensely  sour  taste  which  Epsom 
salts  do  not  The  proper  antidote  for  it  is  the  adminstra- 
tion  of  chalk  or  magnesia  dissolved  in  water.  This  acid 
is  extensively  used  in  printing  calico,  and  by  straw  work- 
ers to  cleanse  their  wares. 

Vegetable  Jelly,  or  Pectic  Acid  is  obtained  from  the  juice 
of  apples,  pears,  quinces,  currants,  raspberries  and  many 
other  fruits;  also  from  turnips,  carrots,  beets  and  other 
roots.  It  is  commonly  prepared  by  mixing  sugar  with  the 
juice  and  allowing  it  to  stand  for  some  time  in  the  sun,  by 
which  a  portion  of  the  water  is  evaporated;  or  it  may  be 
boiled  for  a  short  time.  When  long  boiled  it  loses  the 
property  of  gelatinizing  by  cooling,  and  becomes  a  muci- 
laginous or  gummy  nature.  Isinglass  is  often  used  to  pro- 
mote the  thickening  of  vegetable  jellies.  Sugar  hai  a 
similar  effect. 

Acetic  Acid,  or  Vinegar.  This  acid  is  in  the  most  gen- 
eral use  for  culinary  purposes  and  is  obtained  by  fermen- 
tation. Good  strong  vinegar  contains  about  4  per  cent, 
of  the  pure  acid.  Vinegar  may  easily  be  made  at  any 
time  by  adding  yeast  to  water  sweetened  with  sugar  or 
molasses  or  any  sweet  vegetable  juice  and  letting  the  mix- 
ture stand  for  a  length  of  time  to  air  in  a  warm  place. 
Apple  and  grape  juice  allowed  to  stand  will  undergo  a 
change  which  will  convert  them  into  vinegar,  and  are 
highly  prized  for  all  purposes  of  cookery. 


FLAVORED  VINEGARS. 

Celery  Vinegar. 

Put  into  a  muslin  bag  four  ounces  of  celery  seed,  put 
the  bag  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  holding  three  or  four 
quarts,  fill  with  the  white  wine  vinegar,  and  cork  tight;  set 
the  bottle  in  cold  water,  heat  it  to  boiling  heat,  take  it 
from  the  bath,  cork  tightly,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place;  this 
will  be  found  a  good  substitute  for  celery,  in  all  salads 
where  this  flavor  is  required. 

Peach  Vinegar. 

Blanch,  by  putting  them  in  boiling  water,  one  pint  of 
peach  pits;  pour  over  them  cold  vinegar,  as  strong  as  can 
be  obtained,  and  cork  tightly. 

Oyster  Vinegar. 

Boil  oysters  in  strong  vinegar,  until  the  vinegar  is  high- 
ly flavored;  add  clove,  mace,  and  pepper,  to  suit  the  taste, 
then  strain  and  bottle. 

Horse  Radish  Vinegar. 

6  tablespoonfuls  grated  horse  radish, 
i  tablespoonful  white  sugar, 
i  quart  vinegar. 

Scald  the  vinegar;  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  hone 
radish.     Steep  a  week,  strain  and  bottle. 


PICKLES. 


Use  none  but  the  best  cider  vinegar;  especially  avoid 
the  sharp,  colorless  liquid  sold  under  that  name.  If  you 
boil  pickles  in  bell  metal,  do  not  let  them  stand  in  it  one 
moment  when  it  is  off  the  fire;  and  see  that  it  is  perfectly 
clean  and  newly  scoured  before  the  vinegar  is  put  in. 
Keep  pickles  in  glass  or  hard  stoneware;  they  should 
never  be  kept  in  glazed  ware;  look  them  over  every  month; 
remove  the  soft  ones,  and  if  there  are  several  of  these, 
drain  off  and  scald  the  vinegar,  adding  a  cup  of  sugar  for 
each  gallon,  and  pour  hot  over  the  pickles.  If  they  are 
keeping  well  throw  in  a  liberal  handful  of  sugar  for  every 
gallon,  and  tie  them  up  again.  This  tends  to  preserve 
them,  and  mellows  the  sharpness  of  the  vinegar.  This 
does  not  apply  to  sweet  pickle.  Pickles,  well  made,  are 
better  when  a  year  old  than  at  the  end  of  six  months. 

Keep  your  pickles  well  covered  with  vinegar.  If  you 
use  ground  spices,  tie  them  up  in  thin  muslin  bags. 

Cucumber  or  Gherkin  Pickles. 

Select  the  small,  young  and  slender  cucumbers,  and 
leave  about  half  an  inch  of  the  stem,  as  this  makes  them, 
keep  better.  Put  them  in  a  strong  brine  as  they  are  gath- 
ered; be  sure  to  keep  them  under  the  brine  by  placing  a 
plate  or  board  on  the  top  of  the  vessel.  When  you  wish 
to  green  and  prepare  a  portion  of  them,  cover  the  bottom 
and  sides  of  the  kettle  with  vine  or  cabbage  leaves,  and 
lay  in  the  pickles,  cover  with  a  layer  of  leaves  and  pour 
over  cold  water  to  cover.  Set  the  kettle  over  a  moderate 
fire  and  bring  to  a  scalding  heat;  keep  at  that  temperature 
until  perfectly  green,  which  they  should  be  in  the  course 
14 


106  PICKLES. 

of  t®n  or  twelve  hours.  If  they  do  not  become  green  in 
that  time,  repeat  the  process.  When  well  greened,  re- 
move and  drain;  put  them  in  a  stone  jar  and  pour  over 
them  enough  best  cider  vinegar  boiling  hot,  to  cover  them. 

If  you  wish  to  make  spiced  cider  pickles,  allow  to  every 
gallon  of  vinegar, 

i  cup  of  sugar. 

3  dozen  whole  black  peppers;  same  of  cloves. 

i  y2  dozen  allspice. 

i  dozen  blades  of  mace. 

Put  these  in  the  vinegar  and  heat  boiling  hot  and  pour 
over.  Turn  off  the  vinegar,  scald  and  pour  on  again  in 
two  days.  Repeat  the  process  three  or  four  times.  Keep 
in  a  dry,  cool  place  closely  covered. 

Salt  Cucumber  Pickles. 

Put  them  fresh,  unwashed,  into  a  vessel,  and  cover  with 
boiling  water;  when  cold,  pour  off  and  cover  again  with 
hot  water.  When  cold,  put  them  into  a  cask  of  brine 
sufficiently  strong  for  salt  to  settle  on  the  bottom.  Stir 
thoroughly  every  time  fresh  ones  are  added,  and  see  that 
salt  remains  on  the  bottom.  When  the  cask  is  full,  cover 
the  pickles  with  a  cloth  and  a  slight  weight.  Remove  the 
cloth  occasionally,  and  rinse  it.  The  pickles  keep  well, 
are  easily  soaked,  plump  and  fresh,  t 

Pickled  Peppers. 

Cut  the  stems  out  in  a  circle  with  a  sharp  penknife,  and 
preserve  them;  fill  each  pepper  with  a  mixture  of  finely 
chopped  cabbage,  horse  radish,  mustard  seed,  and  salt. 
Before  filling,  wash  the  peppers  in  cold  water;  then  fill, 
replace  the  piece  cut  out,  tie  with  coarse  thread,  pack  in 
stone  jars,  and  fill  up  with  cold,  sharp  vinegar.  They 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  two  weeks. 

Cauliflower. 

Cut  a  large  cauliflower  in  several  pieces;  wash  and  ex- 
amine carefully  for  any  insects  which  may  be  in  it.     Put 


PICKLES.  I07 

it  into  cold  water  with  two  spoonfuls  of  salt.  Heat  the 
water  gradually,  until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Boil  for  ten 
minutes,  then  drain  until  perfectly  dry  and  put  them  in  a 
glass  jar.  Prepare  a  flavored  vinegar  by  boiling  in  one 
quart  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  and  two  of  mus- 
tard for  a  few  minutes.  Pour  the  vinegar  over  the  cauli- 
flower when  cold,  this  should  cover  the  cauliflower. 

Red  Cabbage. 

In  proportion  to  two  heads  red  cabbage,  put  twelve 
peppers,  each  chopped  fine.  To  a  gallon  of  the  mixture, 
add, 

1  tablespoonful  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

y2  cup  fine  black  mustard-seed. 
A  few  pepper  corns. 

Mix  well,  lay  it  in  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  enough 
boiling  vinegar  to  cover.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Pickled  Butternuts,  or  Walnuts. 

Gather  them  when  they  are  soft  enough  to  be  pierced 
with  a  pin.  Place  them  in  a  very  strong  brine  of  salt  and 
water,  and  let  them  soak  six  days,  changing  this  twice 
during  the  time.  Drain  them  dry,  and  pierce  each  nut  by 
running  a  large  needle  through  it.  Lay  in  cold  water  for 
six  hours.     Prepare  the  vinegar  by  allowing  to  each  gallon, 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

4  dozen  whole  cloves. 

3  dozen  black  pepper  corns. 

2  dozen  whole  allspice. 

1  dozen  blades  of  mace. 

Boil  together  five  minutes.  Place  the  nuts  in  jars,  and 
pour  the  flavored  vinegar  over  scalding  hot.  Repeat  the 
scalding  of  the  vinegar  twice  during  the  week.  Tie  up 
closely  and  they  will  be  ready  to  use  in  a  month  or  six 
weeks. 


108  PICKLES. 

i 

Bean  Pickles. 

Procure  young  beans  from  the  late  crops;  wash  and 
boil  in  slightly  salted  water  until  tender;  drain  them 
through  a  sieve  or  colander,  then  dry  with  a  cloth.  Pour 
boiling  vinegar,  spiced  to  taste,  over  them,  repeat  this  two 
or  three  days,  or  until  they  look  green. 

Mangoes. 

Select  small  musk-melons  (the  common  kind  are  much 
better  for  this  purpose  than  cantelopes),  cut  an  oval  piece 
out  of  one  side.  You  must  have  a  sharp  knife,  and  be 
careful  to  make  a  smooth  incision.  Take  out  the  seeds 
with  a  teaspoon.  Fill  the  melons  with  a  stuffing  made  of 
cloves,  mustard  seed,  pepper  corns,  scrapings  of  horse 
radish,  and  chopped  onion  if  you  like  it.  Sew  on  the 
piece  with  a  needle  and  coarse  thread,  or  bind  a  strip  of 
old  cotton  around  each  one  and  sew  it.  Lay  them  in  a 
jar,  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  on  them  with  a  little  salt  in 
it.  Do  it  two  or  three  times,  then  lay  them  in  fresh  vine- 
gar and  cover  close. 

Nasturtiums. 

Gather  the  seeds  while  green,  let  them  lie  a  few  days, 
then  throw  them  into  vinegar.  They  need  no  spice  ex- 
cept a  little  salt,  being  themselves  sufficiently  spicy.  Boil 
the  vinegar  and  pour  on  them.  They  are  considered  by 
many  persons  better  than  capers,  and  are  much  like  them. 
They  should  be  kept  six  months,  covered  close,  before 
they  are  used. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. 

i  peck  green  tomatoes. 

8  onions. 

4  green  peppers. 

i  cup  salt. 

i  cup  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  of  pepper. 


PICKLES.  IO9 

i  tablespoonful  whole  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  mace. 

Slice  the  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions,  put  in  layers, 
and  sprinkle  over  them  the  salt,  and  let  them  remain  over 
night.  In  the  morning  press  dry  through  a  sieve.  Put 
in  the  spice  (in  a  thin  muslin  bag)  and  cover  with  vinegar. 
Stew  slowly  about  an  hour,  or  until  the  tomatoes  are  as 
soft  as  you  desire.  The  onions  can  be  omitted  if  you 
wish. 

Cucumber  Chow-Chow. 

To  six  large  cucumbers,  take  six  onions,  peel  and  chop 
very  fine,  separately;  add  salt  enough  to  season,  and  let 
them  stand  until  the  water  rises  on  them;  squeeze  them 
dry,  mix  together;  add  a  little  pepper,  and  vinegar  enough 
to  cover.     Bottle  and  seal  up  air  tight. 

Chow-Chow. 

1  peck  green  tomatoes. 

1  large  cup  salt. 

6  green  peppers. 

6  onions. 

6  or  8  large  stalks  of  celery. 

1  pound  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 

4  tablespoonfuls  fine  black  mustard-seed. 

1  tablespoonful  pepper  corns. 

1  tablespoonful  whole  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  mace. 

y2  tablespoonful  ground  pepper. 

Chop  the  tomatoes,  and  sprinkle  over  them  the  salt;  let 
this  stand  twelve  hours,  then  drain  off  the  water,  and  mix 
with  it  the  onions,  pepper  and  celery,  all  chopped  fine. 
Mix  the  spices  with  the  sugar,  Put  a  layer  of  the 
chopped  mixture  in  a  preserving  kettle,  and  scatter  over 


110  PICKLES. 

it  some  of  the  sugar  and  spice,  and  so  on  alternately- 
Then  cover  with  vinegar  and  let  it  simmer  two  hours. 

English  Chow-Chow. 

i  peck  cucumbers. 

i  peck  onions. 

y2  peck  string  beans. 

3  heads  cauliflower. 

3  bunches  celery. 

y2  dozen  sweet  peppers. 

Soak  the  whole  in  strong  salt  and  water  over  night;  in 
the  morning  drain  off  the  brine  and  scald  them  all  in 
weak  salt  and  water,  but  before  scalding  cut  them  into 
shape  so  that  they  will  go  easily  into  glass  jars.     Add 

i/±  pound  mustard. 

2  packages  curry-powder. 

6  quarts  good  vinegar. 

Put  the  mustard  and  curry-powder  into  the  vinegar, 
and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  put  the  pickles  into  the  cans, 
and  pour  the  boiling  liquid  over  them  while  hot.  Do  not 
cover  while  scalding. 


SWEET   PICKLES. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle, 

8  pounds  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced. 

4  pounds  sugar. 

i  ounce  cinnamon  and  mace  mixed. 

i%  ounces  cloves. 

i  y2  quarts  vinegar. 

Mix  all  together  and  stew  an  hour. 

Cucumber  Sweet  Pickle. 

Take  ripe  cucumbers,  pare  and  seed,  cut  in  strips;  soak 
them  in  vinegar  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  and  boil  until 
clear,  in  a  syrup  of  equal  parts  vinegar  and  sugar,  with 
spices  to  your  taste. 

Cantelope  Pickle. 

Take  fine  ripe  cantelopes,  wash,  pare  and  cut  into  small 
pieces,  taking  out  the  seeds;  cover  them  with  vinegar  for 
twenty-four  hours;  throw  away  one  quart  of  the  vinegar 
to  each  quart  remaining.  Allow  three  pounds  sugar  to  a 
dozen  cantelopes,  three  ounces  stick  cinnamon,  two 
ounces  cloves,  two  ounces  allspice  (spices  whole),  boil 
them  with  the  vinegar,  when  well  skimmed  put  in  the 
fruit,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  take  out,  boil  and  skim  the 
syrup,  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  fruit. 

Damsons. 

5  pounds  sugar. 
i  pint  vinegar. 

i  peck  damsons. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  cinnamon. 


112  SWEET    PICKLES. 

i  tablespoonful  whole  cloves. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  vinegar  for  a  few  minutes.  Skim; 
then  add  the  damsons  and  spice.  Boil  gently  three  hours, 
stirring  frequently. 

Spiced  Plums,  or  any  Fruit. 

7  pounds  of  plums. 

4  pounds  of  sugar. 

i  quart  vinegar. 

i  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

i  tablespoonful  cloves. 

Put  the  plums  into  the  kettle  with  alternate  layers  of 
sugar.  Heat  slowly  to  a  boil;  add  the  vinegar  and  spice; 
boil  five  minutes;  take  out  the  fruit  with  a  perforated 
skimmer  and  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup 
thick;  pack  the  fruit  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  on 
boiling  hot.  Examine  every  few  days  for  the  first  month, 
and  should  it  show  signs  of  fermenting,  set  the  jars  (un- 
covered) in  a  kettle  of  water,  and  heat  until  the  contents 
are  scalding. 

Pickled  Peaches. 

Do  not  peel  the  peaches,  but  wipe  with  a  coarse  cloth; 
stick  three  or  four  cloves  in  each  peach.  Heat  the  peaches 
in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them,  until  they  nearly 
boil;  take  them  out  and  add  to  the  water  sugar  in  the 
following  proportions: 

For  every  8  pounds  of  fruit, 

4  pounds  of  sugar. 

Boil  fifteen  minutes,  skim  and  add, 

2,%  pints  vinegar. 

i  tablespoonful  (each)  allspice,  cinnamon  and  mace. 

Put  the  spice  in  a  thin  muslin  bag.  Boil  all  together 
ten  minutes  then  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  until  they  can 
be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Take  out  the  fruit  with  a  skim- 
mer; spread  upon  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup  until  it 
is  thick;  pack  the  peaches  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  this 


SWEET    PICKLES.  113 

over  them  scalding  hot.  Pickle  pears  in  the  same  way 
without  peeling.  Cinnamon  in  sticks  is  preferable  to  the 
ground. 

Watermelon  Rinds. 

7  pounds  of  rinds. 

3^  pounds  sugar. 

1  quart  of  vinegar. 

y2  ounce  white  ginger. 

Cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Take  the  thickest  rinds,  and  pare  off  the  hard,  green 
rind,  and  remove  the  seeds,  slice  and  drain  in  a  colander 
over  night.  In  the  morning  put  in  a  strong  brine,  chang- 
ing every  three  days;  in  the  last  brine,  put  in  a  little  alum 
to  make  the  rinds  hard.  Make  the  syrup  and  when  hot 
put  the  rinds  in  and  cook  ten  minutes,  then  remove  and 
cook  the  syrup  fifteen  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  rinds. 
They  will  be  fit  for  use  in  two  weeks. 
15 


114  ADDITIONAL    RECIPES. 


CATSUPS. 

Walnut   Catsup. 

The  walnuts  must  be  young,  and  tender  enough  to  be 
pierced  with  a  needle.  Prick  them  in  several  places,  and 
put  them  in  a  jar  adding  a  handful  of  salt  to  every  thirty, 
and  sufficient  water  to  cover  them.  Break  them  up  and 
leave  them  in  the  pickle  two  weeks,  stirring  every  day. 
Drain  off  the  liquor  and  cover  the  shells  with  boiling  vin- 
egar to  extract  what  remains  in  them.  Mash  and  strain 
through  a  colander.  Allow  for  every  quart,  an  ounce 
each  of  pepper  and  ginger,  half  an  ounce  each  of  cloves 
and  nutmeg,  beaten  fine.  For  every  two  quarts  add  a 
pinch  of  cayenne,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  celery-seed  tied 
in  a  bag.  Boil  all  together  for  one  hour,  if  there  are  four 
quarts  of  the  mixture.  When  cold  put  in  bottles,  putting 
an  equal  quantity  of  the  spice  in  each  one.  Butternuts 
make  a  very  nice  catsup,  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Currant  Catsup. 

5  pounds  ripe  currants. 

4  pounds  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cloves,  pounded  fine. 

2  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon. 

i  pint  vinegar. 

Mix  the  currants,  sugar  and  spice  together,  and  boil 
two  hours;  then  add  the  vinegar.  Boil  up  once  and  re- 
move from  the  fire. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

i  peck  ripe  tomatoes. 

i  ounce  of  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 


Il6  CATSUPS. 

i  tablespoonful  each  of  black  pepper,  powdered  cloves 

and  celery  seed  in  a  bag. 

7  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 

1/2,  ounce  mace. 

Cut  the  tomatoes  in  halves,  and  put  in  the  preserving 
kettle.  Boil  until  the  pulp  is  dissolved.  Press  through  a 
hair  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire,  add  the  seasoning  and 
boil  four  hours,  stirring  frequently.  When  cold,  add  a 
pint  of  strong  vinegar.  Take  out  the  celery  seed,  and 
bottle,  sealing  the  corks.     Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

Horse  Radish. 

Wash  the  roots,  and  scrape  them  free  from  the  outside 
skin;  grate  the  roots  finely  and  mix  with  strong  vinegar. 
Add  to  one  pint  of  the  grated  roots  a  teaspoonful  of  loaf 
sugar. 

Imitation  Worcestershire  Sauce. 

3  tablespoonfuls  cayenne  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  walnut  or  tomato  catsup  (strained 
through  muslin). 

3  shallots  minced  fine. 

3  anchovies  chopped  into  bits. 

1  quart  of  vinegar. 

1/2,  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves. 

Mix  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Put  in  a  stone  jar,  set 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  heat  until  the  liquid  is  so 
hot  you  cannot  bear  your  fingers  in  it.  Strain,  and  let  it 
stand  in  the  jar,  closely  covered,  two  days  then  bottle  for 
use. 

Gooseberry  Catsup. 

2  quarts  gooseberries. 
1  pint  water. 

1  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 
14  teaspoonful  pepper. 
%  teaspoonful  cloves. 


CATSUPS.  117 

Pick  clean  ripe  gooseberries,  and  boil  till  the  fruit  is 
quite  tender;  then  add  the  spice,  stir  them  together,  and 
let  it  simmer  a  few  minutes;  then  press  out  all  the  juice; 
add  to  each  quart,  one  pound  of  sugar;  reduce  until  the 
syrup  is  nearly  a  jelly,  then  thin  with  the  best  vinegar 
until  of  the  consistency  of  molasses.  Bottle  and  cork 
tightly. 

Ever  Ready  Catsup. 

2  quarts  of  cider  vinegar. 

12  anchovies,  soaked  and  pulled  to  pieces. 
12  small  onions,  chopped. 

1  tablespoonful,  each,  mace  and  cloves. 

3  tablespoonfuls,  each,  salt,  sugar  and  whole  black 
pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  ginger. 
y2  tablespoonful  cayenne. 

1  quart  sliced  ripe  tomatoes. 

Put  in  the  kettle  and  boil  until  the  mixture  is  reduced 
to  one-half  its  original  quantity.  Strain  through  a  bag. 
Let  it  remain  until  the  next  day,  then  bottle,  fill  to  the 
top  and  seal. 


SALADS. 

Sydney  Smith's  Recipe  for  Salad  Dressing. 

Two  boiled  potatoes,  strained  through  a  kitchen  sieve, 

Softness  and  smoothness  to  the  salad  give; 

Of  mordaunt  mustard  take  a  single  spoon — 

Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon; 

Yet  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  taste,  a  fault, 

To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 

Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown, 

And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town; 

True  taste  requires  it,  and  your  poet  begs 

The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well-boiled  eggs. 

Let  onions'  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 

And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole; 

And  lastly,  in  the  flavored  compound  toss 

A  magic  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 

Oh,  great  and  glorious!  oh,  herbaceous  meat! 

'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat; 

Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul, 

And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl. 

Made  Mustard. 

Pour  a  very  little  boiling  water  over  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  mustard;  to  this  stir  in  slowly, 
i  teaspoonful  sugar. 
i  tablespoonful  olive  oil. 
i  saltspoonful  salt. 
Yolk  of  i  egg,  well  beaten. 
Add  vinegar  to  suit  your  taste. 


SALADS.  1X9 

Cold  Slaw. 

1  cup  vinegar. 

A  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut. 

1  egg- 

1  teaspoonful  mustard. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  flour. 

yz  teaspoonful  pepper. 

Boil  the  vinegar  and  melt  the  butter  in  it  and  pour 
over  the  above  mixture;  stir  it  well,  then  put  it  back  on 
the  stove  to  boil  again  about  a  minute;  then  pour  the 
whole  upon  the  chopped  cabbage. 

Horse  Radish  Sauce. 

2  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard. 
2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 

}£  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  gill  of  vinegar. 

Mix  and  pour  over  grated  horse-radish. 

Excellent  with  beef. 

Lettuce. 

Get  that  in  which  the  head  is  hard  and  compact.  Lay 
it  in  ice-water  until  nearly  time  to  serve;  then  break  off 
the  imperfect  leaves,  and  throw  them  aside.  Cut  off  the 
remainder  of  the  leaves  from  the  root,  and  look  them  over 
carefully.  Wash  in  two  or  three  waters,  and  arrange  the 
leaves  in  the  bottom  of  a  salad  or  other  deep  dish.  Allow 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  for  each  head  of  lettuce;  have  them 
ready,  cold,  to  slice,  and  lay  over  the  lettuce.  Put  bits  of 
ice  in  here  and  there.  Send  at  once  to  the  table,  and 
serve  with  sugar,  vinegar,  mustard  and  the  best  salad  oil. 

Celery  Salad. 

1  boiled  egg. 

2  raw  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 


120  SALADS. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 

i  saltspoonful  salt. 

i  saltspoonful  pepper. 

6  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 

i  teaspoonful  made  mustard. 

Prepare  the  dressing  as  for  tomato  salad;  cut  the  celery 
into  bits  half  an  inch  long,  and  season.  Eat  at  once,  be- 
fore the  vinegar  injures  the  crispness  of  the  vegetable. 

Tomato  Salad. 

i  dozen  medium  sized  tomatoes. 

4  hard  boiled  eggs. 

i  raw  egg. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

i  teaspoonful  white  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 

2  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard, 
i  teacupful  vinegar. 

Rub  the  yolks  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  gradually  add  the 
seasoning,  lastly  the  vinegar.  Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  put  them  on  ice.  Put  a 
lump  of  ice  in  the  dressing  and  let  it  remain  until  the 
dressing  is  cold,  then  remove  and  pour  the  dressing  over 
the  tomatoes  and  set  it  on  the  ice  until  ready  to  use. 

Lobster  Salad.     No.  i. 

Cut  very  small  the  meat  of  one  good  sized  lobster. 
The  hen  lobsters  are  best  for  salad,  because  they  contain 
the  red  meat  called  "  coral,"  which  is  desirable  for  gar- 
nishing. Put  it  in  a  salad  dish,  reserving  the  coral  for  or- 
namenting the  salad.     Make  a  dressing  as  follows: 

Yolks  of  2  raw  eggs. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  boiled  hard. 

i  tablespoonful  made  mustard. 

3  of  melted  butter,  or  the  best  salad  oil. 
A  little  salt  and  pepper. 

Vinegar  to  your  taste. 


SALADS.  121 

Mash  the  yolks  of  the  boiled  eggs  very  fine,  and  mix 
with  the  beaten  raw  eggs.  Add  gradually  the  other  in- 
gredients. Beat  the  mixture  a  long  time.  Some  persons 
like  the  addition  of  lemon-juice  and  a  little  brown  sugar. 
Increase  the  quantity  of  dressing,  as  you  may  find  neces- 
sary, according  to  the  size  of  the  lobster.  Just  before 
serving,  take  one  or  two  good  heads  of  lettuce  which  have 
been  on  the  ice  for  several  hours,  and  cut  up  very  small 
the  crisp  inside  leaves  only.  Put  them  over  the  lobster 
meat  in  the  salad  dish,  first  pouring  over  the  lobster  some 
of  the  dressing.  Pour  the  remainder  over  the  salad;  gar- 
nish with  the  coral  cut  fine,  the  white  of  the  two  hard 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings,  and  two  others  boiled  hard,  and 
sliced.     The  salad  is  ready  to  serve. 

Lobster  Salad.     No.  2. 

Take  one  or  two  heads  of  white  heart  lettuce;  they 
should  be  as  fresh  as  possible;  lay  them  in  spring  water 
for  an  hour  or  two;  then  carefully  wash  them,  and  trim 
off  all  the  withered  or  cankered  leaves;  let  them  drain 
awhile,  and  dry  them  lightly  in  a  clean  napkin.  Then 
take  out  the  coral,  or  red  meat,  and  mince  the  remaining 
parts  very  fine.  Mash  the  coral  fine,  with  the  yolks  of 
four  hard  boiled  eggs,  a  little  sweet  oil,  mustard,  pepper 
and  salt,  all  mixed  well,  and  moistened  with  vinegar;  in- 
corporate this  mixture  thoroughly  with  the  meat;  put  it 
on  a  dish;  sprinkle  the  whole  with  lettuce  minced  very 
fine. 

Salad  Dressing. 
2  raw  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
8  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 
J^  teaspoonful  mustard. 

Put  it  in  a  bowl  over  boiling  water  and  stir  until  it  be- 
comes like  cream;  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 
16 


122  SALADS. 

Suggestions. 

Chicken  for  salad,  should  boil  until  it  comes  from  the 
bone  easily.  It  it  better  to  shred  it  than  cut  or  chop. 
Equal  parts  of  butter  and  salad  oil  are  preferred  by  many 
to  the  entire  quantity  of  either.  The  addition  of  the 
liquor  the  fowl  is  boiled  in,  is  an  improvement  to  moisten 
the  salad  with.  Put  celery  and  cabbage  in  ice  cold  water 
for  an  hour  or  two  before  using  for  salads,  to  make  it 
crisp. 

Chicken  Salad. 

The  meat  of  a  cold  chicken  or  turkey  (boiled  or  roasted). 

^  the  same  amount  chopped  celery. 

2  eggs,  boiled  hard. 

i  raw  egg,  beaten  well. 

i  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  pepper. 

i  tablespoonful  salad  oil,  or  melted  butter. 

i  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

%  teacupful  vinegar. 

Shred  the  meat  well,  removing  all  gristle  and  skin;  cut 
the  celery  into  pieces  half  an  inch  long  or  less,  mix  them 
well,  and  then  prepare  the  dressing.  Rub  the  yolks  to  a 
powder,  add  the  seasoning,  and  then  the  oil,  beating  hard 
and  putting  it  in  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  Then  add  the 
raw  egg  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  pour  in  the  vinegar  slowly, 
beating  the  dressing  well  as  you  do  it.  Pour  this  over  the 
meat  and  celery,  tossing  up  lightly,  so  that  all  will  become 
saturated.  When  ready  for  the  table,  turn  into  a  salad 
dish  and  garnish  with  the  whites  of  cold  boiled  eggs,  cut 
into  rings,  and  sprigs  of  bleached  celery  tops.  If  you  can- 
not get  celery,  crisp  white  cabbage  may  be  substituted  for 
celery,  and  celery  vinegar  used  in  the  dressing. 

Turkey  makes  better  salad  than  chicken.  A  fine  salad 
may  be  made  by  using  lean  fresh  roasted  pork,  instead  of 
chicken. 


SALADS.  I23 

Salad  for  Two  Chickens. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs,  well  beaten. 

J^  cup  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

3  tablespoonfuls  prepared  mustard. 

Cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 

y2  cup  of  cream. 

1  pint  of  vinegar. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

Stir  together  until  thoroughly  mixed. 


124 


ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


YEAST. 


Good  yeast  is  indispensable  to  good  bread.  Many  of 
the  compounds  sold  for  yeast  are  unfit  for  use.  Every 
housekeeper  should  make  sure,  by  her  own  personal  atten- 
tion, that  the  yeast  is  properly  made,  and  the  jar  well 
scalded.  A  jar  having  a  close  cover  is  best;  bottles  will 
burst,  and  you  cannot  be  perfectly  sure  that  a  jug  is 
cleansed  from  every  particle  of  old  yeast.  To  scald  the 
jar,  put  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  This  should  be 
done  every  time  you  make  yeast.  Stoneware  is  liable  to 
be  cracked  by  the  pouring  of  boiling  water  into  it.  Soft 
hop,  or  potato  yeast,  should  be  made  once  a  week  in  the 
summer,  and  once  in  two  weeks  in  the  winter.  No  soft 
yeast  can  be  fit  for  use  if  kept  week  after  week;  it  may 
be  rectified  with  saleratus,  but  the  bread  will  not  be  very 
good. 

Potato  Yeast.     No.  i. 

4  large  potatoes,  or  six  small. 

2  quarts  cold  water. 

Double  handful  hops,  tied  in  a  coarse  muslin  bag. 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  salt. 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes  while  hot,  stir  in  the  flour, 
sugar  and  salt.  Boil  the  hops  in  water  five  minutes  and 
pour  the  tea  over  the  mixture.  Strain  through  a  colander 
and  let  cool.  When  still  slightly  warm  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  baker's  yeast,  or  two  yeast  cakes.  Set  it  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  until  it  ceases  to  bubble  up,  or  until  the 
next  day.     In  summer  it  will  work  well  in  a  few  hours. 


126  YEAST. 

Potato  Yeast.    No.  a. 

4  good  sized  potatoes. 
4  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar, 
i  teaspoonful  of  ginger, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  cupfuls  of  flour. 

i  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes,  then  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients, and  pour  over  this  the  boiling  water,  and  beat  un- 
til the  lumps  disappear.  After  it  is  cooled  add  to  it  one 
cup  of  baker's  yeast,  and  set  away  to  rise.  After  it  is 
done  rising,  put  it  in  a  glass  jar  and  close;  set  away  in  a 
cool  place.  Add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  this  yeast  to  your 
sponge. 

Salt  Rising,  or  Milk  Yeast. 

%  cup  new  milk. 

i  cup  of  boiling  water. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and  set  it 
in  a  covered  dish  in  warm  water;  keep  it  at  an  even  heat 
until  light. 

To  make  the  bread:  Add  a  pint  of  warm  water,  or  milk, 
and  make  a  thick  sponge,  and  let  it  rise.  When  light, 
knead  well,  and  put  into  pans,  and  set  to  rise  again,  when 
it  will  be  ready  for  the  oven. 

Hop  Yeast.    No.  i. 

3  good  sized  potatoes. 
A  small  handful  hops, 
i  teaspoonful  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  salt. 

Peel  and  grate  the  potatoes,  put  in  enough  water 
to  make  two  quarts  of  the  mixture;  then  strain  out 
the  starch  and  let  it  settle,  and  return  the  water  to  the 
potatoes  and  boil  them.  Steep  the  hops  and  strain  in 
when  the  potato  is  soft,  Add  the  sugar  and  salt.  Let 
the  mixture  boil  up,  then  stir  in  the  starch,  that  has  set- 


YEAST.  127 

tied.  Have  it  about  the  right  thickness  without  adding 
any  flour.  When  cold,  add  two-thirds  cup  of  lively  yeast; 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Hop  Yeast.     No.  2. 

4  large  potatoes. 

1  handful  hops. 
4  quarts  water. 

3  large  spoonfuls  flour. 

2  spoonfuls  sugar. 
1  spoonful  salt. 

1  spoonful  ginger. 

1  teacup  yeast. 

Put  the  hops  in  a  coarse  muslin  bag.  Boil  in  the  water 
the  hops  and  potatoes.  When  the  potatoes  are  done, 
take  out  the  hops,  mash  the  potatoes  and  add  the  flour, 
sugar,  salt  and  ginger.  Scald  the  whole  together;  when 
cool  add  the  yeast  and  set  it  to  rise. 

Yeast  Cakes. 

Handful  hops  in  a  bag. 

3  large  potatoes. 

1  quart  water  (cold). 

1  pint  flour. 

1  teacup  sugar. 

1  spoonful  salt. 

Peel  and  slice  the  potatoes  and  place  with  the  hops  in 
the  water;  boil  until  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Put  into  a 
pan  the  flour,  sugar  and  salt;  scald  them  with  the  hop- 
water  and  potatoes,  mashing  the  whole  until  smooth. 
When  cool  add  four  yeast  cakes  which  have  been  well 
soaked.  When  the  yeast  is  light,  stir  in  corn  meal  till 
stiff  enough  to  cut  into  cakes  for  drying.  If  too  stiff, 
the  cakes  will  be  too  hard.  Sprinkle  the  moulding  board, 
with  meal  and  spread  the  cakes  on  it,  turning  them  fre- 
quently until  dry.  In  warm  weather  place  them  in  the 
air,  but  not  in  the  sun;  in  cold  weather  they  will  dry  in  a 
warm  room  near  the  stove.  When  dry,  wrap  in  a  paper 
and  keep  from  the  air. 


128  YEAST. 

Yeast  without  Hops. 

i  quart  boiling  water. 

4  ounces  white  sugar. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

i  teacupful  yeast. 

Stir  into  the  water  enough  wheat  flour  to  make  a  smooth 
thick  batter.  While  hot  stir  in  the  sugar  and  salt.  When 
cold  add  the  yeast,  and  when  fermented  place  in  a  cov- 
ered jar  for  use.  One  half  teacupful  is  enough  for  two 
loaves  of  bread.  This  yeast  is  good  for  raising  buck- 
wheat cakes,  and  makes  bread  very  light  and  white,  when 
good  flour  is  used. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES.  i2a 


BREAD 


In  the  composition  of  good  bread  there  are  four  im- 
portant requirements;  good  flour,  good  yeast,  thorough 
kneading,  and  proper  baking.  Flour  should  be  white  and 
and  dry,  crumbling  easily  again  after  being  pressed  hard 
in  the  hand.  If  in  handling  the  flour  you  notice  a  heavi- 
ness like  ground  plaster;  if  in  squeezing  it  tightly,  it  re- 
tains the  prints  of  the  palm  and  fingers,  and  lies  in  the 
tray  like  a  compact  roll,  or  ball;  or  if  it  is  in  the  least 
musty,  or  sour,  the  chances  are  ten  to  one  against  your 
having  good  bread.  Next  to  the  flour  in  importance  is 
the  yeast.  This  should  be  light  in  color  and  lively,  effer- 
vescing easily  when  shaken,  and  emitting  an  odor  like  am- 
monia. If  dull  or  sour,  it  is  bad.  Knead  your  bread 
faithfully.  Do  not  work  the  dough  over  without  spend- 
ing any  strength.  The  hands  should  be  shut  closely,  and 
the  fists  pressed  hard  and  quickly  on  the  dough  (so  as  to 
separate  the  fibres).  A  half  hour  is  the  least  time  to  be 
given  to  kneading  a  baking  of  bread,  unless  you  prefer, 
after  having  kneaded  it  till  you  have  worked  in  the  proper 
amount  of  flour,  to  chop  it  with  a  chopping-knife,  four  or 
five  hundred  strokes.  An  hour's  kneading  is  not  too 
much.  Young  housekeepers,  and  often  those  who  should 
have  learned  better,  frequently  fall  into  a  mistake  in  the 
consistency  of  the  dough.  It  should  be  mixed  as  soft  as 
it  can  be  handled.  The  dough  should  be  set  in  a  moder- 
ately warm  place,  and  kept  at  an  even  temperature.  If  it 
is  too  cool,  the  fermentation  is  arrested,  and  the  bread 
fails  to  rise;  if  it  is  too  warm,  the  work  goes  forward  too 
rapidly,  and  the  bread  is  puffy  and  strong.  The  former 
difficulty  may  be  remedied  by  more  heat,  and  the  latter  by 


BREAD.  131 

a  little  soda  dissolved  in  water  and  worked  thoroughly  in- 
to the  dough.  While  rising  it  is  much  better  to  cover 
closely  with  a  tin  dish,  as  this  prevents  the  steam  from  es- 
caping, or  the  forming  of  a  crust  before  it  is  placed  in  the 
oven.  The  oven  should  not  be  too  hot,  as  too  much  fire 
at  first  and  then  cooling  it,  forms  a  hard  crust  and  leaves 
the  middle  undone,  or  what  is  termed  "  slack-baked." 
The  heat  should  be  uniform  in  all  parts  of  the  oven  as 
this  prevents  the  loaf  from  cracking  open,  or  one  side 
rising  lighter  than  the  other,  and  opening  the  oven  door 
to  turn  the  loaf  injures  the  bread.  When  the  loaves  are 
baked  do  not  lay  them  flat  on  the  table,  as  it  is  apt  to  make 
them  heavy.  Set  them  on  the  edge  and  put  a  cloth  close- 
ly over  them.  This  keeps  in  the  steam  and  makes  the 
crust  soft.  Some  of  the  best  cooks  think  that  covering  a 
cloth  over  hot  bread  injures  its  flavor,  and  prefer  to  leave 
the  crust  hard  to  covering  it. 

Buttermilk  Bread. 

1  quart  of  buttermilk,  heated  to  scalding. 

2  quarts  of  flour. 
y2  cup  of  yeast. 

When  the  milk  is  slightly  cool,  pour  over  the  flour  the 
whey,  and  when  cool  enough,  stir  in  the  yeast.  Beat  well, 
and  let  it  rise,  over  night.  Mix  early  in  the  morning  add- 
ing as  much  tepid  water  as  is  needed  for  the  required 
quantity  of  bread.  Let  the  whole  rise  until  quite  light, 
then  knead  thoroughly  and  let  it  rise  before  baking. 

Hop  Yeast  Bread. 

1  cup  yeast. 

1  quart  new  milk  and  water,  or  scalded  milk  and  water. 

Stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  sponge  and  let  it 
rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  stir  it  down  and  let  it 
rise  again;  then  mould  thoroughly  and  fill  bread  pans 
half  full;  let  them  stand  until  light  and  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 


132  BREAD. 

Bread  for  Large  Baking. 

Take  eight  pounds  of  flour,  sift  into  bread  dish;  rub 
well  into  the  flour  a  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter.  Make 
a  deep  hole  in  the  flour  and  having  ready  a  quart  of  luke- 
warm water  with  a  heaped  tablespoonful  of  fine  salt,  mix 
with  flour  and  yeast,  and  pour  in  the  cavity.  Take  a 
large  spoon  and  stir  in  flour  for  a  thick  batter,  then  scat- 
ter a  handful  of  flour  over  the  batter;  cover  up  the  bread 
dish,  and  keep  in  a  warm  place,  if  cold  weather.  If  sum- 
mer, any  where  will  be  warm  enough.  This  is  called  set- 
ting the  sponge.  When  the  batter  is  fermented  pour  in  as 
much  warm  water  as  will  make  it  of  proper  consistency. 
Knead  it  well  until  firm  and  smooth.  Put  it  in  the  bread 
pans  which  must  be  well  greased.  In  about  one-half  hour 
it  will  be  ready  for  the  oven  which  must  be  properly 
heated  beforehand. 

Milk  Bread. 

i  quart  milk. 

i  teacupful  yeast. 

%  pound  butter. 

i  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

Stir  in  the  milk,  which  should  be  made  blood  warm,  a 
pint  of  flour  and  the  sugar,  lastly  the  yeast.  Beat  all  to- 
gether well  and  let  them  rise  five  or  six  hours.  Then 
melt  the  butter  and  add  with  a  little  salt.  '  Work  in  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  let  this  rise  four  hours, 
and  make  into  small  loaves.  Set  near  the  fire  for  half  an 
hour  and  bake.  In  warm  weather,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  dissolved  in  warm  water  to  the  risen  sponge  as  all 
bread  mixed  with  milk  is  apt  to  sour. 

Patterson  Bread. 

i  quart  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

Piece  of  butter  twice  the  size  of  an  egg. 


BREAD.  133 

2  eggs  well  beaten. 
2  teaspoonfuls  sugar. 

1  pint  sweet  milk. 

Put  into  the  flour  the  soda,  cream  tartar,  salt  and  but- 
ter, before  mixing  with  the  milk;  and  bake  in  well  greased 
gem  pans,  or  little  tins. 

Milk  Yeast  Bread. 

See  direction  for  Milk  Yeast  or  Salt  Rising. 

Bread  Sponge. 

6  potatoes. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2  tablespooofuls  of  butter. 

1  quart  of  tepid  water. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes  while  hot;  stir  the  ingredi- 
ents to  a  smooth  batter,  then  add  the  yeast.  Set  over 
night;  in  the  morning  knead  in  sufficient  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  spongy  dough;  knead  vigorously  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Set  away  to  rise,  and  when  light  knead  for  ten  minutes, 
mould  out  into  modern  sized  loaves.  Let  them  rise  until 
they  are  like  delicate  or  light  sponge  cake. 

Graham  Bread.     No.  i. 

2  cups  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk. 
%  cup  of  best  sugar  or  syrup. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

y2  teaspoonful  salt. 

Stir  with  a  spoon  to  a  stiff  mass  (not  too  stiff,  or  the 
bread  will  be  too  hard).  Put  it  in  a  three  pint  or  two 
quart  basin,  well  buttered,  and  place  in  the  steamer  over 
cold  water,  which  gives  the  loaf  more  time  to  rise.  Steam 
about  two  hours,  then  put  in  the  oven  just  long  enough 
to  give  a  rich  brown  color. 


E34  BREAD. 

Graham  Bread.     No.  2. 

2  cups  Graham  flour. 

1  cup  Indian  meal. 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 

Add  enough  milk  (half  sweet  and  half  sour)  to  make 
it  a  little  stiffer  than  pound  cake,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Cream  Biscuit. 

These  are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  butter  milk  bis- 
cuit, except  no  butter  is  required.  Cream  will  make 
them  sufficiently  short. 

Cream  Tartar  Biscuit. 

1  quart  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  pint  cold  water. 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  until  there  are  no  lumps, 
tnen  add  the  salt,  and  scatter  in  the  cream  tartar.  Have 
ready' the  water  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved, 
pour  into  the  flour,  stirring  quickly  with  a  knife.  Do  this 
until  the  ingredients  are  well  mixed,  then  add  flour  enough 
to  mould  smooth.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These  can  be 
made  of  unbolted  flour  if  desired.  Make  one  half  the 
quantity  for  a  small  family. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. 

Make  cream  of  tartar  biscuit  dough,  a  little  shorter  than 
usual.  Roll  it  quite  thin,  and  lay  in  the  pans  in  sheets. 
Bake  quickly.  Take  fresh  strawberries  or  raspberries,  and 
stir  sugar  into  them.  Split  the  cake  and  butter  both 
parts,  and  put  on  a  layer  of  fruit  and  replace  the  upper 


BREAD.  135 

half  of  the  cake.  To  be  set  on  the  table  uncut,  and  eaten 
hot.  Use  buttermilk,  or  rich  sour  milk  for  this  cake  if 
more  convenient,  but  in  that  case  omit  the  cream  tartar. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit. 

1  quart  flour. 

4  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

A  little  salt. 

Mix  the  powder  and  salt  well  in  the  flour.  Wet  up  with 
sweet  milk,  stiff  enough  to  roll,  but  do  not  knead.  Cut 
with  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  They  are 
much  nicer  than  with  shortening.  If  desired  one  can  use 
a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  an  English  walnut,  well  rubbed 
in  the  flour. 

Raised  Biscuit.     No.  i. 

1  pint  of  milk. 
%  cup  of  yeast. 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Warm  the  milk  and  butter  together.     Set  the  sponge  at 
night  and  mix  hard  in  the  morning. 

Soda  Biscuit. 

To  each  quart  of  flour,  add 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

3^  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
5^  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 

If  soda  and  cream  tartar  are  used,  use  one  teaspoon 
soda  and  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar.  Mix  the  baking 
powder  thoroughly  in  the  flour,  then  wet  with  the  milk;  if 
water  is  used  take  double  the  quantity  of  butter.  Knead 
but  little  and  bake  quickly. 

Raised  Biscuit.     No.  2. 

Cut  off  a  portion  of  raised  dough  which  has  been  made 
ready  for  bread.     Roll  it  out,  spread  on  a  little  shorten- 


136  BREAD. 

ing,  and  mould  it  in;  cut  the  biscuit,  and  let  them  rise 
until  light  and  then  bake.  These  biscuit  can  be  moulded 
in  the  morning  when  the  bread  is  prepared,  and  placed  in 
a  cool  place  until  tea,  but  must  be  raised  before  baking. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Buttermilk  or  Sour  Milk  Biscuit. 

1  pint  buttermilk  or  sour  milk. 

1  quart  flour. 

Piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg  rubbed  into  the 
flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

A  little  salt. 

Rub  the  butter  and  salt  into  the  flour  and  stir  in  the 
milk.  Stir  the  soda  in  with  a  knife  till  well  mixed.  Add 
flour  enough  to  mould  it  smooth.  Roll  and  cut  as  tea 
biscuit.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Easter  Buns. 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  yeast. 

Flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

Set  this  as  a  sponge  over  night.     In  the  morning  add 

1  cup  sugar. 

y2  cup  butter,  melted. 

y2  nutmeg. 

1  saltspoonful  salt. 

Flour  enough  to  roll  out  like  biscuit.  Knead  well,  and 
set  to  rise  for  five  hours.  Roll  half  an  inch  thick,  cut 
into  round  cakes,  and  lay  in  rows  in  a  buttered  baking- 
pan.  When  they  have  stood  a  half  hour,  make  a  cross 
upon  each  with  a  knife,  and  put  instantly  into  the  oven. 
Bake  to  a  light  brown,  and  brush  over  with  a  feather  or 
soft  bit  of  rag,  dipped  in  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  up 
stiff  with  white  sugar. 

Buns. 

1  pint  warm  milk. 
%  cup  white  sugar. 


BREAD.  137 

}£  cup  yeast. 
y2  cup  butter. 
1  egg. 

Beat  up  and  sponge  with  flour,  and  rise  over  night;  then 
knead  and  work  up  three  times  before  baking. 

Plain  Buns. 

These  are  made  like  the  Easter  buns,  but  not  rolled  in- 
to a  sheet.  Knead  them  like  biscuit  dough,  taking  care 
not  to  get  it  too  stiff,  and  after  the  five-hour  rising,  work 
in  two  or  three  handfuls  of  currants  which  have  been  pre- 
viously well  washed  and  dredged  with  flour.  Mould  with 
your  hands  into  round  balls,  set  these  closely  together  in 
a  pan,  that  they  may  form  a  loaf,  which  can  easily  be 
broken  apart  when  baked.  Let  them  stand  nearly  an 
hour,  or  until  very  light;  then  bake  from  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  until  brown.  Wash  them  over  while 
hot  with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar.  These  are  generally 
eaten  cold,  or  barely  warm,  and  are  best  the  day  they  are 
baked. 

Butter  Crackers. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

y2  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  cups  of  sweet  milk. 

Mix  the  butter  in  the  flour  as  for  pastry.  Add  the  salt 
soda  and  milk,  mixing  well,  mould  it  into  a  ball  and  beat 
with  the  rolling  pin  for  a  half  hour,  turning  the  mass 
often.  Roll  into  a  sheet  one  quarter  of  an  inch  thick; 
prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  hard  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Dry  in  a  bag  hung  up  in  the  kitchen. 

Puffs. 

6  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

18 


l$&  BREAD. 

A  saltspoonful  salt. 

Bake  in  cups  not  quite  half  full.  Put  in  the  oven  when 
you  sit  down  to  dinner,  and  they  will  be  ready  for  desert. 
-Serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  maple  syrup. 

Crumpets.     {Plain.) 

3  cups  warm  milk. 

y2  cup  yeast. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

i  saltspoonful  salt. 

i  saltspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Flour  to  make  a  good  batter. 

Set  these  ingredients  (leaving  out  the  butter  and  soda) 
as  a  sponge.  When  very  light,  beat  in  the  melted  butter, 
with  a  very  little  flour,  to  prevent  the  butter  from  thin- 
ning the  batter  too  much,  stir  in  the  soda  hard,  fill  muffin- 
rings,  or  patty-pans  with  the  mixture,  and  let  them  stand 
fifteen  minutes  before  baking. 

Wafers. 

i  pound  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

A  little  salt. 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  into  a  stiff  dough,  and  roll  very 
thin,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and  again  roll  these  as  thin  as 
they  can  be  handled.  Lift  them  carefully  and  lay  in  a 
pan  and  bake  quickly.  They  should  be  hardly  thicker 
than  writing  paper.  Flour  the  baking-pan  instead  of 
greasing.     These  are  very  nice,  especially  for  invalids. 

Rolls.     No.  i. 

y2  pint  milk. 
%  cup  shortening, 
y2  cup  yeast. 
6  cups  flour. 
2  spoonfuls  sugar. 

Mix  early  and  set  it  to  rise.  Make  out  into  rolls,  let 
them  rise  half  an  hour  in  pans  before  baking. 


BREAD.  139 

Rolls.     No.  2. 

2  quarts  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

1  pint  milk. 

5^  teacup  yeast. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

A  little  salt. 

Make  a  hole  in  center  of  the  flour,  put  in  the  butter, 
salt  and  sugar;  pour  over  this  the  milk  previously  boiled 
and  cold,  and  also  the  yeast.  When  the  sponge  is  light, 
mould  for  fifteen  minutes.  Let  it  rise  again,  and  cut  in 
long  cakes.  When  light,  flatten  each  cake  with  the  roll- 
ing pin  and  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  and  fold 
each  over  itself  as  a  turnover.  Put  in  pans  to  rise,  and 
when  light  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

French  Rolls.     No.  1. 

Take  out  from  the  risen  dough  when  ready  to  knead, 
enough  for  the  tea  rolls.  Work  into  this  dough  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  or  butter  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place 
for  four  hours.  Knead  it  and  let  it  stand  for  three  hours 
longer.  Then  make  into  rolls  by  rolling  pieces  of  the 
dough  into  round  cakes  and  fold  these  up  like  turnovers. 
Again  let  these  rise  for  one  hour.  Bake  half  an  hour 
or  less  if  the  oven  is  quick. 

French  Rolls.     No.  2. 

1  quart  of  milk;  new,   warm  milk  is  best. 
1  teacupful  of  yeast. 
1%  quarts  of  flour. 

1  egg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

When  the  sponge  is  light,  work  in  the  egg,  well  beaten, 
butter,  soda,  salt  and  sugar,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
soft  dough.     Let  it  stand  five  hours,  then  roll  into  round 


140  BREAD. 

cakes  and  fold  like  turnovers.  Set  them  closely  together 
in  the  baking  tin,  let  them  rise  one  hour.  Just  before 
baking,  draw  a  sharp  knife  across  each  roll  to  make  them 
break  in  baking.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

Sweet  Rusk. 

i  pint  warm  milk. 

^  cup  butter. 

i  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

Make  a  sponge  with  milk,  yeast,  and  enough  flour  for  a 
thin  batter,  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  butter,  eggs  and  sugar  previously  well  beaten  together, 
the  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  soft  dough.  Mould 
with  the  hands  into  balls  of  uniform  size.  Set  close  to- 
gether in  a  pan  and  let  them  rise  until  very  light.  After 
baking  wash  the  tops  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  molasses  and 
water. 

Rusk. 

When  moulding  bread  into  loaves,  reserve  sufficient  for 
one  loaf  to  make  up  into  rusk.     Add 

i  large,  heaping  tablespoon  of  half  butter  and  half  lard 
(it  should  be  fresh,  sweet  and  cold). 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten. 

i  tablespoonful  sugar. 

Mix  well,  and  set  aside  until  very  light;  then  mould  in- 
to rather  small  rolls,  let  them  stand  half  an  hour,  or  until 
they  look  light  and  puffy.  Wash  over  lightly  with  the 
beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Bake  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Sally  Lunn.     No.  i. 

i  scant  quart  flour. 

4  eggs. 

i  teacupful  milk. 


BREAD.  141 

i  teacupful  lard  and  butter  mixed. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

1^  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  yolks  and  whites  separately, 
melt  the  shortening,  sift  the  cream  tartar  into  the  flour, 
add  the  whites  the  last  thing. 

Muffins.     No.  i. 

1  pint  sweet  milk. 
1  quart  flour. 

1  egg. 

3  large  spoonfuls  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Muffins.     No.  2. 

1  pint  sour  cream. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Enough  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  you  can  stir  with  a 
spoon. 

Buttermilk  Muffins. 

1  quart  buttermilk. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flour  to  make  good  batter.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and 
stir  into  the  milk,  beating  hard  all  the  while.  Add  the 
flour  and  salt,  and  lastly  the  soda.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sour  Milk  Muffins. 

1  pint  sour  milk. 

1  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  saleratus. 


142  BREAD. 

i  teaspoonful  butter. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

Put  the  egg  in  the  milk  without  beating.  Melt  the  but- 
ter and  saleratus  in  a  spoonful  of  hot  water.  Make  quite 
a  thick  batter  and  beat  well.  Have  the  griddle  of  mod- 
erate heat;  grease  it  and  also  the  rings,  lay  them  on  and' 
fill  only  half  full  of  the  batter. 

Rice  Muffins. 

i  cup  cold  boiled  rice, 
i  pint  flour. 

2  eggs. 

i  quart  milk,  or  enough  to  make  thin  batter. 

i  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter. 

i  teaspoonful  salt.  , 

Beat  hard,  and  bake  quickly.  '• 

Graham  Muffins. 

3  cups  Graham  flour. 
i  cup  wheat  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
2  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 
i  teaspoonful  soda. 

A  little  salt. 

Take  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  put  it  into  a 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  set  it  on  the  stove  until  melted,  and 
mix  together. 

Raised  Graham  Muffins. 

3  cups  Graham  flour. 
i  cup  wheat  flour. 

i  quart  milk. 
%£  cup  yeast. 

i  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter. 
i  teaspoonful  salt. 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Set  to  rise  over  night;  bake  in  muffin-rings  twenty 
minutes  in  quick  oven.     Eat  when  hot. 


BREAD.  145 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. 

1  cup  corn  meal. 
1%  cups  flour. 

1  */i  cups  sweet  milk. 
*  egg. 

2  small  tablespoonfuls  shortening. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

The  egg  can  be  omitted.  If  baking  powder  is  not  used, 
take  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar,  and  one  teaspoonful 
soda. 

Graham  Rolls. 

1  egg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
y2  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  ginger. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 
2*4  cups  Graham  flour. 
Bake  in  gem  pans. 

Graham  Gems. 

1  pint  of  sour  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  shortening. 

Graham  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Bake  in  gem  irons. 

French  Toast. 

2  eggs. 

1  pint  cold  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Take  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  and  dip  into  the  eggs 
and  milk  after  being  beaten  together.  Drain  off  the  milk 
from  the  bread,  and  brown  both  sides  on  buttered  grid- 


144  BREAD. 

die;  serve  in  hot  covered  dish.     Eat  with  syrup  or  butter 
and  sugar. 

Milk  Toast. 

i  quart  milk. 

Yz  cup  butter. 

Thicken  with  flour  broken  up  in  cold  milk  or  water,and 
scald  for  a  few  minutes.  Brown  the  slices  of  bread,  and 
dip  into  the  thickened  milk.  It  is  well  to  soften  the 
bread  by  dipping  it  in  hot  water,  in  which  a  little  salt  has 
been  dissolved.  This  can  be  used  for  butter  toast,  by  us- 
ing water  instead  of  milk,  and  using  one  cupful  butter. 

Johnny  Cake.     No.  i. 

i  pint  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk. 

i  egg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Mix  the  egg,  milk  and  flour,  and  add  enough  meal  to 
make  a  thick  batter;  and  finally  add  salt  and  soda  after 
being  dissolved  in  the  hot  water.  Beat  very  rapidly,  and 
bake  quickly  and  steadily. 

Johnny  Cake.     No.  2. 

1  cup  cream. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Meal  to  mix  soft.     The  sugar  can  be  omitted. 

Johnny  Cake.    No.  3. 


1  egg. 

2  cups  corn  meal. 
Y$  cup  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 


BREAD.  145 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Milk  enough  to  make  it  soft. 

Brown  Bread. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

4  cups  meal.  > 

2  cups  flour. 

^3  cup  molasses. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  soda. 
Bake  slowly  for  one  hour. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 
1  cup  sour  milk. 

3  cups  corn  meal. 
1  cup  flour. 

y2  cup  molasses. 

1  egg- 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Steam  three  hours. 

Graham  and  Indian  Bread. 

3  cups  Indian  meal. 

1  heaping  cup  Graham  flour. 

3^  cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

Scald  the  meal  over  night;  steam  three  hours,  and  bake 
to  give  a  nice  crust. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 

2  pints  Indian  meal. 
1  pint  rye  meal. 

1  cup  molasses. 
1  tablespoonful  soda. 
19 


146  BREAD. 

Mix  with  sour  or  buttermilk  quite  soft,  so  it  will  pour. 
Put  the  soda  into  the  molasses,  and  molasses  into  meal. 
Add  a  little  salt.     Steam  five  or  six  hours. 

Raised  Brown  Bread. 

1  pint  warm  water. 

1  cup  flour. 

2  cups  rye  meal. 

2  cups  Indian  meal. 

1  cup  molasses. 

1  small  cup  good  yeast 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 

Pour  the  mixture  into  a  tin  pudding  pan  or  pail;  let  it 
rise  three  hours.  Set  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and 
steam  four  hours. 


ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


M7 


1^.8  ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES.  ,  I49 


I50  ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


GRIDDLE  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES. 

Green  Corn  Griddle  Cakes. 

Grate  the  corn  from  the  cob,  and  allow  one  egg  for  ev- 
ery cupful,  with  one  tablespoonful  of  milk  or  cream;  beat 
eggs  well,  add  the  corn,  salt  to  taste;  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful melted  butter  to  every  pint  of  corn,  stir  in  the  milk, 
and  thicken  with  just  enough  flour  to  hold  them  together, 
say  one  tablespoonful  for  every  two  eggs.  Fry  in  hot 
lard;  or  better,  cook  on  griddle. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.     No.  i. 

2  quarts  buckwheat  flour. 

4  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

i  handful  Indian  meal. 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses,  not  syrup. 

Warm  water  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

Beat  well,  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  If  the  bat- 
ter is  the  least  sour  in  the  morning,  stir  in  a  little  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water.  Mix  in  an  earthen  crock,  and 
leave  a  cupful  or  more  in  the  bottom  each  morning  to 
serve  as  sponge  the  next  night,  instead  of  getting  fresh 
yeast.  In  cold  weather,  this  plan  can  be  pursued  for  a 
week  or  ten  days  without  getting  a  fresh  supply. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.     No.  2. 

1  quart  warm  water. 

1  tablespoonful  scalded  Indian  meal. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  gill  yeast. 

Buckwheat  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.     Let  it 


152  GRIDDLE   CAKES  AND   WAFFLES. 

rise  over  night,  in  the  morning  add  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  do  this  whether  the  cakes  are  sour  or 
not.  Buckwheat  cakes  cannot  be  made  in  perfection 
without  this  addition;  but  it  should  never  be  put  in  until 
just  before  they  are  baked.  They  should  be  made  as  thin 
as  they  can  be,  and  be  turned  on  the  griddle.  All  kinds 
of  griddle  cakes  should  be  well  beaten.  Flour  or  Graham 
flour  can  be  used  with  buckwheat;  if  used,  omit  the  Indian 
meal,  and  take  one-third  as  much  wheat  flour,  or  Graham 
as  buckwheat. 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes. 

i  quart  milk  (boiling  hot). 

2  quarts  fine  bread  crumbs. 

3  eggs. 

i  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk  ten  minutes  in  a  covered 
bowl;  beat  it  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  the 
butter,  salt,  soda  and  finally  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake 
on  griddle. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes. 

Put  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  boiled  rice,  in  warm  wa- 
ter enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  soak  an  hour.  Mash  the 
rice  well,  and  make  a  batter  with  one  quart  of  sour  milk, 
one  light  quart  of  flour,  salt  to  taste,  and  two  eggs  well 
beaten.  The  batter  should  be  moderately  thick.  Stir  in 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda  just  before  frying. 

Griddle  Cakes.     No.  i. 

i  pint  sour  milk. 

i  egg. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda. 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut. 

Flour  enough  to  make  smooth  batter. 


GRIDDLE   CAKES   AND    WAFFLES.  .  1 53 

Stale  bread  can  be  used  by  soaking  until  soft,  in  either 
milk  or  water,  several  hours.  Less  flour  will  be  needed  if 
the  bread  is  used. 

Griddle  Cakes.     No.  2. 

t  quart  sweet    milk. 
2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  melted  in  the  milk. 
1  gill  yeast. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  smooth  batter.  Make  in  the 
morning,  and  they  will  be  light  for  tea. 

Risen  Waffles. 

1  quart  milk. 

1  heaping  quart  flour. 
5  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Set  the  mixture — without  the  eggs  and  butter — over 
night  as  a  sponge;  Add  these  in  the  morning;  bake  in 
waffle  irons. 

Rice  Waffles. 

1  cup  boiled  rice. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

Piece  of  lard,  size  of  a  walnut. 

*4  teaspoonful  soda. 

i  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Enough  flour  for  a  thin  batter. 

Quick  Waffles, 

1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs  beaten  very  lightly. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 


154  GRIDDLE    CAKES    AND    WAFFLES. 

i  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  sifted  in  the  flour. 

%  teaspoonful  soda. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

i  pint  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  batter. 


FRITTERS. 

Fritters. 

2  eggs  well  beaten. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  lard. 

y%  cup  sweet  milk. 

i  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

A  little  salt. 

Flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Drop  from  spoon  into  hot  lard;  turn  two  or  three  times 
while  cooking  to  prevent  too  much  browning.  To  be 
eaten  warm  with  maple  or  sugar  syrup. 

Snow  Fritters. 

Stir  together  enough  milk,  flour  and  a  little  salt  to 
make  a  thick  batter;  add  new  fallen  snow  in  the  propor- 
tion of  a  teacupful  to  a  pint  of  milk.  Have  the  fat  ready 
hot,  at  the  time  you  stir  in  the  snow,  and  drop  the  batter 
into  it  with  a  spoon.  These  are  preferred  by  some  to 
those  made  with  eggs. 

Egg  Plant  Fritters. 

Take  a  large  sized  egg  plant,  leave  the  stem  and  skin 
on,  and  boil  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle  until  very  soft,  just  so 
you  can  get  it  out  with  the  aid  of  a  fork  or  spoon;  take 
off  all  the  skin  and  mash  very  fine  in  an  earthen  bowl. 
When  cold,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  plenty  of  pepper,  a 
large  iron  spoonful  of  flour,  a  half  teacupful  of  cream  or 
milk,  and  three  eggs.  This  forms  a  nice  batter.  Have 
lard  hot,  drop  the  batter  in  as  you  would  fritters,  and 
brown  them  nicely  on  each  side. 


156  frittfrs 

Fritters  or  Pancakes. 

i  pint  milk. 

3  eggs. 

A  little  salt. 

Flour  enough  to  make  quite  a  thick  batter.  Beat  well, 
then  drop  with  a  spoon  into  hot  fat  and  fry  like  dough- 
nuts.    To  be  eaten  with  syrup. 


VEGETABLE  MAXIMS. 


To  beat  mashed  potatoes  with  a  fork,  improves  them 
as  much  as  to  beat  the  eggs  for  a  cake. 

Sweet  potatoes  are  best  steamed  until  tender  and  then 
baked. 

Potatoes  fried  in  boiling  lard,  like  fritters,  are  very  nice, 
and  do  not  soak  fat  if  the  grease  is  hot  enough. 

Three  hours  is  short  time  enough  to  cook  oat  meal. 

It  is  a  rare  thing  to  see  any  kind  of  farinaceous  food, 
— either  of  oat,  corn,  barley,  rice  or  wheat — sufficiently 
cooked. 

Any  kind  of  mush  cooks  more  quickly  and  is  nicer, 
not  to  be  salted  till  nearly  done. 

Many  people  think  tomatoes  equal  to  peaches  when 
eaten  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Tomatoes  are  preserved  with  salt  the  same  as  cucum- 
bers. 

Vegetables  which  are  eaten  without  cooking,  as  radishes 
and  celery,  should  be  kept  cold  till  they  are  eaten. 

No  vegetable  is  nice  if  it  wilts  before  it  is  cooked. 

Bread  mixed  with  water  will  keep  moist  longer  than  if 
mixed  with  milk. 

To  warm  over  gems,  rolls,  etc.,  dip  them  in  cold  water 
for  an  instant,  and  put  them  into  a  hot  oven. 

To  freshen  stale  crackers,  put  them  into  a  hot  oven 
dry. 

Fried  cakes  can  be  freshened  in  the  same  way  as 
crackers. 

Cold  griddle  cakes  soaked  soft  and  stirred  into  fresh 
batter  are  fully  equal  to  bread  crumbs. 

Chocolate  is  never  nice  warmed  up  after  it  has  cooled. 
It  should  be  kept  hot. 

Use  boiling  milk  in  coffee  and  chocolate. 

Unused  tea  may  be  saved  by  pouring  it  off  the  grounds 
and  heating  the  liquid  over. 


HYGIENIC   EFFECT   OF   VEGETABLES. 

Wheat. 

Wheat  contains  all  of  the  elements  necessary  to  health 
in  the  best  proportions  for  a  moderate  climate,  when 
cooked  by  boiling,  or  as  cracked  wheat,  or  Graham  flour. 
The  common  superfine  flour,  however,  contains,  little 
except  starchy  matter  which  serves  as  fuel. 

Indian  Corn. 

Indian  corn  contains  a  great  amount  of  oil,  and  so 
possesses  remarkable  fattening  qualities,  and  is  likewise 
remarkable  as  a  heat  producer. 

Oats 

are  very  rich  in  nutriment  for  the  brain  and  muscles. 

Rice 

will  keep  a  person  fat,  but  lacks  the  elements  which  pro- 
duce muscle  or  brain. 

Potatoes. 

Both  Irish  and  sweet  potatoes  are  very  poor  food  for 
brain  and  muscle,  but  they  contain  a  great  amount  of 
waste  matter,  and  they  are  the  best  of  anything  to  mix 
with  strong  foods  like  most  meats. 

Turnips,  Carrots,  Squashes,  Parsnips,  etc., 

are  nearly  all  water  and  are  dear  at  any  price  except  in 
hot  weather,  when  we  need  to  flood  the  -system  and  take- 
very  little  strong  food. 


hygienic  effect  of  vegetables.  i59 

Buckwheat 

is  only  good  for  a  ride  in  the  cold,  having  but  little  mate- 
rial for  muscle  or  brain,  but  over  75  per  cent,  of  heating 
matter.     It  should  never  be  eaten  except  in  winter. 

Rye 

is  excellent  food  for  persons  inclined  to  constipation  and 
with  corn  meal  makes  good  bread,  nourishing  and  di- 
gestible. 

Beans  and  Peas. 

These  contain  double  the  amount  of  muscle  and  brain 
matter,  and  treble  the  waste  material  necessary,  but  lack 
in  heating  material.  The  are  appropriately  used  with 
pork  or  butter  to  supply  the  requisite  carbonates.  Being 
hard  of  digestion  they  are  good  for  active  persons  of 
strong  digestion. 

Fruits. 

Fruits  are  necessary  to  people  of  sedentary  habits.  Their 
acids  are  needed  every  day  to  eliminate  effete  matter 
which  clogs  the  system,  causing  jaundice,  sleeplessness, 
scurvy  and  troublesome  diseases  of  the  skin.  Their 
solid  matter  also  is  of  great  value  as  it  is  mostly  woody 
fibre  and  indigestible,  so  remedying  constipation. 
Apples  compared  with  wheat  contain  twice  as  much  food 
for  muscle,  and  four  times  as  much  for  brain. 


SUGAR. 


The  sap  and  juices  of  all  plants  and  fruits  contain  su- 
gar. Those  plants  and  fruits  which  contain  sour  or  acid 
juice  yield  grape  sugar;  while  those  which  contain  little 
or  no  acid  in  their  saps,  contain  generally  cane  sugar. 

Grape  Sugar  consists  of  twelve  parts  of  carbon  to  four- 
teen parts  of  water;  while  cane  sugar  contains  twelve- 
parts  of  carbon  to  eleven  parts  of  water.  Two  pounds 
of  cane  sugar  will  sweeten  as  much  as  five  pounds  of 
grape  sugar.  Grape  sugar  may  be  produced  by  art,  while 
cane  sugar  cannot.  Eleven-twelfths  of  all  the  sugar  of 
commerce  is  made  from  sugar  cane.  This  is  sold  in  the 
forms  of  raw,  or  muscovado,  or  is  commonly  called  brown 
sugar,  molasses,  refined  sugars,  sugar-house  molasses,  and 
syrups. 

Cane- Juice  contains  vegetable  albumen,  a  substance 
which  has  a  strong  tendency  to  fermentation,  hence  when 
left  to  itself  is  rapidly  changed;  the  acid  of  vinegar  be- 
ing generated.  To  neutralize  this  acid,  lime  is  added  and . 
it  is  boiled  until  a  syrup  is  produced.  The  liquid  is  then 
drawn  off  into  shallow  vessels  and  stirred.  As  it  cools, 
the  sugar  granulates  or  appears  in  the  form  of  grains  or 
crystals.  Part  of  the  syrup  will  be  changed  by  the  boil- 
ing so  that  it  will  not  granulate,  and  this  will  keep  the  re- 
mainder from  becoming  solid.  The  product  is  then 
placed  where  it  can  drain  and  a  large  part  of  this  syrup 
flows  away,  and  is  collected  in  separate  vessels  and  is 
known  as  molasses.  This  sugar  is  muscovado,  or  more 
commonly  called  brown  sugar. 

This  brown  sugar  contains  more  or  less  vegetable  albu- 


SUGAR.  l6l 

men;  this  albumen  has  a  great  tendency  to  decomposition 
by  which  process  the  cane  sugar  is  changed  to  grape  sugar. 
This  change,  of  course,  lessens  its  sweetening  properties, 
and  lowers  its  value. 

The  vegetable  albumen  in  this  raw  sugar  offers  nourish- 
ment to  a  minute  insect  called  the  sugar-mite.  This  sugar 
is  seldom  found  without  this  disgusting  insect.  The  re- 
fined sugars  contain  no  albumen,  and  consequently  offer 
no  nourishment  to  them.  Their  presence  can  be  detected 
by  dissolving  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  in  a 
wine-glass  of  tepid  water.  Let  it  stand  an  hour  or  two, 
and  the  animalculae  will  be  found  on  the  surface.  The 
mite  is  visible  to  the  naked  eye  as  a  mere  speck,  but  can 
be  easily  seen  with  the  microscope. 

The  molasses  which  flows  away  from  the  sugar  consists 
of  the  saccharine,  or  sugary  matter  combined  with  the 
lime  used  in  its  manufacture;  also  with  small  quantities 
of  alkalies. 

Molasses  itself  is  also  aciduous.  On  this  account  it 
cannot  be  used  with  yeast.  But  the  molasses  takes  effect 
upon  saleratus  (or  soda)  and  sets  free  carbonate  acid  gas. 
Carbonate  of  magnesia  and  tartaric  acid  may  be  used 
instead  of  saleratus  with  molasses,  and  it  is  more  agreeable, 
as  well  as  more  wholesome.  The  peculiar  strong  taste  of 
molasses  may  be  removed  by  boiling  for  half  an  hour  with 
pulverized  charcoal.  Crude  sugar  is  refined  to  cleanse  it 
of  its  impurities,  and  improve  its  color  and  taste;  this  is 
done,  by  first  melting  it,  and  mixing  with  it  a  small  por- 
tion of  animal  albumen  (ox  blood),  which  clears  it  of 
mechanical  contaminations.  The  syrup  is  then  filtered 
through  a  bed  of  animal  charcoal  (burnt  bones  crushed), 
by  which  it  is  decolorized.  It  is  then  crystallized  by  boil- 
ing at  a  low  temperature  in  vacuum  pans  in  which  the  at- 
mospheric pressure  is  removed. 

Sugar-house  Molasses  and  Syrups  are  the  residue  which 

remain   uncrystallized   in   purifying  and  refining  brown 

sugars.     These  are  much   more  cleanly  and  pure  than 

common  molasses  and  consequently  are  less  used  for  cook- 

21 


1 62  SUGAR. 

ing.  Part  of  the  sugar  taken  into  the  system  is  absolved 
through  the  veins  and  burned  away  to  produce  heat. 
Another  part  is  turned  into  lactic  acid,  and  assists  in  di- 
gestion; and  a  part  is  converted  into  fat  in  the  body. 
There  is  an  old  opinion  that  sugar  when  eaten  freely,  at- 
tacks the  teeth,  corrupting  them  and  spoiling  their  color, 
but  good  authority,  including  Dr.  Pereira,  declares  this 
opinion  totally  unfounded.  No  people  have  finer  teeth 
than  the  negroes  of  Jamaica,  and  none,  perhaps,  use  sugar 
more  liberally. 

Nature  evidently  intended  children  to  have  sugar,  as  a 
fondness  for  it  seems  a  common  instinct;  and  besides  it 
is  very  plenty  in  their  first  food — milk. 


CAKE. 


Use  none  but  the  best  materials  for  cake  making. 
Have  all  your  materials  ready  for  use  before  you  begin 
mixing  the  ingredients;  butter  your  pans  beforehand,  for 
cake  is  injured  by  standing.  Cake  is  better  made  in 
earthen  than  in  tin.  All  kinds  of  cake  are  better  if  the 
whites  and  yolks  are  beaten  separately;  be  careful  in  sep- 
arating that  none  of  the  yolk  gets  in  the  white,  as  it  may 
prevent  their  frothing  well.  Eggs  beat  more  quickly  that 
have  been  laid  two  or  three  days,  than  when  laid  the  same 
day.  In  warm  weather  if  the  eggs  are  placed  in  cold 
water  or  on  ice  some  time  before  using,  they  will  cut  into 
a  much  finer  froth.  Much  time  can  be  saved  by  using  an 
egg-beater,  and  we  would  recommend  the  "  Dover "  as 
being  the  best  in  use  for  this  purpose.  The  whites  are 
perfectly  beaten  when  they  will  remain  on  the  upturned 
vessel  in  which  they  were  beaten  without  slipping;  the 
yolks  are  light  with  no  stringy  appearance,  when  perfectly 
beaten;  it  takes  as  long,  if  not  longer  to  beat  the  yolks 
than  the  whites.  The  whites  make  the  cake  lighter  and 
the  yolks  enrich  it.  For  very  nice  cake  the  yolks  should 
be  strained  after  beating.  Do  not  use  fresh  and  stale 
milk  in  the  same  cake.  Sour  milk  makes  a  spongy  cake; 
sweet  milk  one  closer  in  grain.  Except  for  molasses  cake 
use  none  but  white  sugar,  and  many  prefer  the  powdered 
to  the  granulated.  Be  careful  in  your  weights  and  meas- 
ures. Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  until  they  look 
like  cream.  When  cream  or  sour  milk  is  used,  half  of  it 
should  be  added  when  half  the  flour  is,  and  the  rest  of 
the  flour,  milk  and  soda  stirred  in  last.     When  fruit  is 


164  CAKE. 

used  it  should  be  dredged  in  the  flour,  as  it  prevents  it 
settling  to  the  bottom.  In  winter  soften^  but  do  not  melt 
the  butter.  In  summer  do  not  stir  the  cake  with  your 
hands  as  the  warmth  makes  it  less  light.  If  the  butter  is 
from  a  firkin,  wash  it  to  remove  the  salt.  Streaks  in  cake 
are  caused  by  unskilful  mixing,  too  rapid  baking,  or  sud- 
den decrease  in  heat  while  baking.  If  necessary  to  move 
the  cake  while  in  the  oven,  do  so  very  carefully  as  a  slight 
jar  may  cause  it  to  fall;  if  it  hardens  too  quickly  on  top, 
cover  with  paper.  It  should  rise  to  its  full  height  before 
the  crust  forms.  Sift  your  flour  before  measuring,  as  all 
recipes  are  for  sifted  flour.  It  is  better  to  line  the  pans 
with  paper,  which  can  be  buttered;  in  buttering  the  pans 
melt  the  butter  to  extract  the  salt.  Keep  the  cake  in  a 
tin  box  or  stone  jar. 

Molasses  Cakes  should  be  made  of  real  West  India 
molasses,  syrup  will  not  do.  They  should  be  put  in  the 
oven  immediately  after  adding  the  soda;  bake  in  a  quick 
but  not  hot  oven,  without  burning,  until  well  done.  They 
must  be  used  fresh  unless  made  hard;  when  thus  made 
they  will  keep  some  time.  If  shortened  with  lard,  salt 
must  be  added.  Alum  makes  hard  gingerbread  more  brit- 
tle, but  should  be  used  in  small  quantities,  and  when  used 
more  soda  is  needed.  If  eaten  warm,  break  instead  of 
cutting.  Bake  in  shallow  pans,  as  most  people  prefer  the 
crust  to  soft  gingerbread.  Warm  gingerbread  baked  in 
deeper  pans,  and  eaten  with  sauce  makes  a  good  dessert 
for  dinner. 

Orange  Cake.    No.  i. 

1  cup  white  sugar. 
J^  cup  butter. 
J^  cup  of  milk. 
4  eggs. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  baking  powder. 

2  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  orange  (grated  peel). 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  eggs 


CAKE.  165 

well  beaten,  and  the  milk.  Stir  the  baking  powder  into 
the  flour,  and  add  lastly.  Grate  the  orange  peel  into  the 
cake.  This  is  sufficient  for  four  layers.  Bake  in  jelly 
cake  tins. 

Icing  for  the  Same. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

1  heaping  coffee-cup  pulverized  sugar. 
Juice  of  one  orange. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  until  it  creams; 
then  add  the  orange  juice.  Spread  between  the  layers  of 
cake  when  cold.     Reserve  a  little  for  frosting  on  top  layer. 

Lemon  Cake. 

Make  the  same  as  orange,  only  substituting  one  lemon 
for  the  orange,  and  using  in  the  same  manner. 

Orange  Cake.     No.  2. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

J^  cup  sweet  milk. 

2^  cups  of  flour. 

1  y2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Juice  of  one  orange. 

Bake  in  four  cakes.  Make  icing  as  in  the  first  recipe 
using  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs,  and  spread  between  the 
layers,  sprinkling  the  grated  peel  over  it.     Frost  the  top. 

Sea  Foam  Cake. 

Whites  of  10  eggs. 
1  y2  teacups  pulverized  sugar. 
1  rounding  cup  of  flour. 

y2  teaspoonf  ul  cream  tartar  mixed  in  the  flour. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  sift  the  sugar  in,  then 
add  the  flour  in  which  the  cream  tartar  has  been  mixed, 


l66  CAKE. 

stir  lightly,  just  enough  to  mix  the  flour.     Bake  one  hour 

When  the  sizzling  sound  ceases,  the  cake  is  done. 

Ribbon  Cake.     ( White  Part.) 

Whites  of  6  eggs. 

i  cup  sugar. 

%  cup  of  butter. 

%  cup  of  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

2  cups  of  flour. 

Flavor  with  lemon. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  and  the  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  jelly  cake  tins.  This  will  make 
two  layers,  which  will  be  an  inch  thick  when  done. 

Dark  Part. 

J^  cup  molasses. 

J^  cup  of  sugar. 

i  egg. 

J^  cup  of  butter. 

i  cup  of  seeded  raisins. 

y2  cup  of  currants. 

i  cup  flour. 

i^  cup  hot  water  or  coffee. 

J^  teaspoonful  saleratus. 

yx  teaspoonful  cloves,  and  same  of  cinnamon. 

A  little  nutmeg,  and  small  piece  of  citron  chopped  very 
fine. 

Beat  the  sugar,  molasses  and  butter  together;  then  add 
the  egg  well  beaten.  Rub  the  fruit  in  the  flour,  so  all 
will  mix  well.  Dissolve  the  saleratus  in  the  hot  water. 
Mix  together.  This  is  sufficient  for  one  layer.  When 
the  cake  is  done,  place  a  layer  of  white  on  a  plate,  and 
spread  with  jelly  of  some  kind;  then  put  the  dark  cake 
on,  and  spread  this  with  jelly  also;  then  put  the  layer  of 
white  on,  and  frost  the  top. 


CAKE.  167 

Silver  Cake. 

Whites  of  5  eggs. 

2  cups  white  sugar. 

1  cup  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

2^/2  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  cup  cornstarch. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  next  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  cornstarch  and  flour  into  which 
the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted;  lastly  the  flavoring. 

Gold  Cake. 

Make  in  the  same  manner  as  silver  cake,  only  using  the 
yolks  instead  of  whites,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Feather  Cake. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1  egg. 

2y2  cups  of  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon.     Bake  in  loaf. 

Tri-Color  Cake. 

1  coffee  cup  of  white  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
Whites  of  4  eggs. 
5^  cup  of  sweet  cream. 
1  cup  of  flour. 
J^  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

Make  another  cake  the  same  way,  using  the  yolks;  then 
another,  using  one-half  cup  of  red  sand  sugar,  and  one- 


1 68  CAKE. 

half  cup  white  sugar,  in  place  of  the  white  sugar.  Bake 
in  sheets  having  each  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in 
thickness.  Lay  the  three  sheets  one  above  another  thus: 
the  yellow  underneath,  the  red  in  the  center,  and  the  white 
above.  Put  them  together  while  warm,  and  brush  with 
the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  to  make  them  adhere.  Put 
icing  on  the  top. 

Citron  Cake. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs. 

i  cup  of  sugar. 

y2  cup  of  butter. 

i  Yz  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Yz  cup  of  cornstarch. 

i^  cup  of  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

3^  pound  citron. 

Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mix  according  to  previous  directions  for  cake.  The 
citron  must  be  shaved  in  very  thin  pieces,  and  rolled  in 
flour  to  prevent  settling  to  the  bottom  of  the  cake.  Bake 
in  a  loaf. 

For  the  Frosting. 

White  of  i  egg. 

}£  cup  of  pulverized  sugar  beaten  together  and  flavored 
with  vanilla. 

Delicate  Cake. 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

i  %  cups  of  sugar. 

*/2  cup  of  butter. 

Yt,  cup  sweet  milk. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

2  teacupfuls  flour. 

Bake  in  a  loaf. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

i  cup  of  butter. 
2  cups  of  sugar. 


CAKE.  169 

3  cups  of  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  cup  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  mixed  in  flour. 
Bake  in  jelly  cake  tins. 

Filling. 

Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth. 
1  cup  of  powdered  sugar. 
3^  pound  grated  chocolate,  wet  in 
1  tablespoonful  of  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Beat  the  sugar  into  the  whipped  whites;  then  the  choc- 
olate. Whisk  all  together  hard  for  three  minutes  before 
adding  the  vanilla.  Let  the  cake  get  quite  cold  before 
you  spread  it.  Reserve  a  little  of  the  mixture  for  the 
top,  and  beat  more  sugar  into  this  to  form  a  firm  icing. 

Water  Melon  Cake.     {White  Part}} 

Whites  of  6    eggs. 

2  cups  of  white  sugar. 
1  cup  of  butter. 

1  cup  of  milk. 

4  even  cups  of  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Flavored  with  lemon. 

Red  Part. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

y±  cup  red  sugar  sand. 

y2  cup  butter. 

y2  cup  milk. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  and  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Take  one-half  the  quantity  of  the  white  mix- 
ture, for  the  bottom  layer;  then  put  the  red  mixture  on, 
and  put  on  two  rows  of  seeded  raisins  so  they  will  be  an 
inch  apart.  Then  the  rest  of  the  white  for  top  layer. 
22 


170  CAKE. 

Bake  in  loaf  tins.      The  raisins  represent  the  seeds  of 
water  melons,  so  only  a  few  are  necessary. 

Cream  Cake. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

Yz  cup  of  milk. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

1  y2  cups  of  flour. 

Cream  for  Filling. 

2  eggs. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 
y,  cup  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

Boil  as  a  custard  in  a  vessel  set  within  another  of  boil- 
ing water.  When  cold,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  the  cake 
in  two  jelly  cake  tins.  When  cold,  split  them,  and  spread 
the  cream  on  the  lower  crust  of  each,  and  then  place  the 
top  on. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. 

Whites  of  6  eggs. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

2  cups  of  sifted  flour. 
1  cup  of  cornstarch. 
1  cup  of  butter. 

1  cup  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  or  1  teaspoonful  soda, 
and  two  of  cream  tartar. 

Bake  in  jelly  cake  tins. 

Icing  to  put  Between  the  Layers. 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

4  cups  pulverized  sugar. 

Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  over  the  sugar,  boil  hard 
until  clear  and  strings  from  the  spoon;  then  pour  the  boil- 
ing hot  sugar  over  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  stirring 


CAKE.  171 

hard  all  the  time  until  a  stiff  cream  or  foam.  Then  add 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid,  and  flavor  to  taste  with 
vanilla.     Spread  between  each  layer,  and  on  the  top. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake.     No.  i. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

3£  cup  of  butter. 

l£  cup  sweet  milk. 

2"i/^  cups  flour. 

1  coffee  cup  of  hickory  nuts. 

%  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake.     No.  2. 

1  *4  cups  of  sugar. 
%  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  flour. 

$£  cup  sweet  milk. 
2  eggs. 

ij^  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
1  cup  hickory  nuts,  chopped. 

If  soda  and  cream  tartar  are  used,  take  1  teaspoonful 
cream  tartar,  and  ]4,  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

"  One,  Two,  Three,  Four  "  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

4  eggs. 

y2  cup  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

A  little  vanilla. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  eggs, 
well  beaten,  then  the  flour  into  which  the  baking  powder 
has  been  sifted,  then  the  milk,  and  last  the  flavoring. 


IJ2  CAKE. 

Almond  Cake. 

i  cup  of  butter. 
2  cups  of  sugar. 
2  cups  of  flour. 
6  eggs. 

A  little  baking  powder. 
i  teaspoonful  almond  extract. 

Split  almonds  in  halves  and  put  over  the  top.  Bake  in 
shallow  tins. 

Coffee  Cake, 
i  cup  of  sugar. 
2  cups  of  flour. 
y2  cup  butter. 
y2  cup  molasses. 
y2  cup  cold  coffee, 
i  cup  raisins  seeded. 
2  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
i  teaspoonful  mace, 
i  teaspoonful  cloves. 

i  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  the  coffee. 
Mix  together,  adding  the  flour  last. 

Pound  Cake. 

i  pound  of  sugar. 

^  pound  butter,  worked  free  from  salt. 

i  pound  flour,  sifted. 

8  eggs. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  yolks 
well  beaten.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add 
them  in  alternate  spoonfuls  with  the  flour.  Beat  a  long 
time  and  bake  in  round  basins.  It  should  be  three  days 
old  before  cutting.  A  glass  of  wine  or  brandy  improves 
it.     Flavor  or  not  as  you  please. 

Every  Day  Fruit  Cake. 

i  cup  of  sour  milk. 
i  cup  of  butter. 


CAKE.  173 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

4  cups  of  flour. 

4  eggs. 

2  cups^of  raisins. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Salt,  cinnamon,  cloves,  citron,  and  wine  or  brandy  to 
taste. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  then  add  the  milk, 
spices,  and  raisins,  after  stirring  these  together,  add  the 
yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  froth,  and 
stir  in  with  the  flour.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  water 
and  add  it  last.     This  will  make  two  loaves. 

Wedding  Cake. 

1  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

1  pound  of  butter. 

1  pound  of  flour. 

12  eggs. 

1  pound  of  currants,  well  washed  and  dredged. 

1  pound  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

y2  pound  of  citron,  cut  into  slips. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

2  teaspoonfuls  nutmeg. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  wineglass  of  boiled  cider. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  stir  well  together;  then  put  in  half 
of  the  flour.  The  spice  should  come  next,  then  the 
whipped  whites  stirred  in  alternately  with  the  rest  of  the 
flour;  lastly  the  cider.  This  is  sufficient  for  two  large 
cakes.  Line  deep  tins  with  well  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
at  least  two  hours.  The  icing  should  be  laid  on  stiff  and 
thickly.  Be  sure  your  cake  is  entirely  done  before  taking 
from  the  oven. 

Fruit  Cake. 

1  pound  powdered  sugar. 
1  pound  of  flour. 


174  CAKE. 

5^  pound  of  butter. 

7  eggs. 

y2  pound  currants,  picked  over  and  dredged. 

}£  pound  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped,  then  dredged. 

3^  pound  citron,  cut  into  slips. 

i  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg. 

i  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

i  glass  of  boiled  cider. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream;  add  the  yolks 
well  beaten,  then  the  spice  and  the  whipped  whites  alter- 
nately with  the  flour;  fruit  and  brandy  last. 

Farmer's  Fruit  Cake. 

2  cups  dried  apples. 

2  cups  molasses. 

2  eggs. 

i  cup  of  butter. 

i  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 

3^  cups  of  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Soak  the  apples  over  night  in  cold  water,  then  chop 
them  the  size  of  raisins;  put  them  in  the  molasses  and 
simmer  slowly  two  hours.  Add  the  other  ingredients,  mix 
well  and  bake. 

Fruit  and  Nut  Cake. 

4  cups  of  flour. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 
i  cup  of  butter. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separated. 
i  cup  cold  water. 

i  coffee  cup  full  of  hickory  nut  kernels. 
y2  pound  raisins,   seeded,  chopped  and  dredged  with 
flour. 

i  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  mixed  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together  to  a  smooth  cream;  put 


CAKE.  175 

in  the  yolks,  then  the  water,  spice,  soda;  next  the  whites- 
and  flour.  The  fruit  and  nuts,  stirred  together  and 
dredged,  should  go  in  last.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in 
two  loaves. 

Sponge  Cake.     No.  1. 

1  teacup  powdered  sugar. 
3  eggs. 

y2  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
1^  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teacupful  flour. 

Flavor  with  lemon,  half  the  juice  and  half  the  rind  of 
one. 

Bake  twenty  minutes  in  shallow  tins. 

Sponge  Cake.     No.  2. 

3  eggs. 

1  */2  cups  sugar. 

2  even  cups  sifted  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
%  teaspoonful  soda. 

J^  cup  cold  water. 

Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

A  little  salt. 

Beat  eggs  altogether,  then  add  one  cup  of  flour  with 
the  cream  tartar  mixed  in  it.  Beat  again,  then  add  the 
soda  in  the  water,  then  the  lemon,  and  lastly  one  cup  of 
flour.     Stir  and  bake  quickly. 

Plain  Cake. 

3  eggs. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 
y2  cup  of  butter. 

^  cup  of  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda. 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Flour  enough  to  make  it  of  proper  consistency. 


17$  CAKE. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

2  eggs. 

i  cup  of  sugar. 
^  cup  of  milk. 
y2  cup  of  butter. 
2  cups  of  flour. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  jelly  cake  tins. 

Frosting. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

8  teaspoonfuls  sugar. 

Flavor  to  suit. 

Spread  each  cake  with  a  thin  layer  of  frosting,  sprinkled 
with  prepared  cocoanut,  and  frost  the  top,  which  should 
be  thickly  sprinkled  with  the  cocoanut. 

Myrtle's  Cake. 

5  eggs,  beaten  light  and  yolks  strained. 

3  cups  of  powdered  sugar. 

i  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  the  sugar, 
i  cup  sweet  milk. 

4  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Juice  of  i  lemon,  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

A  little  nutmeg. 

Bake  in  two  loaves.     Cover  with  lemon  frosting. 

Spice  Cake. 

4  eggs. 

i  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  brown  sugar. 
i  cup  of  sweet  milk. 

3  cups  of  flour. 
i  nutmeg. 

i  teaspoonful  of  cloves. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon. 

i  y2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  or 

j£  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  i  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 


CAKE.  177 

White  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  of  butter. 

3  cups  of  flour. 
Whites  of  4  eggs. 

1  even  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

1  cup  sour  cream. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  then  the  soda  dissolved  and 
strained;  lastly  add  the  cream.     Bake  immediately. 

Currant  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  powdered  sugar. 

3  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

4  eggs. 

}£  cup  sweet  milk. 

y2  pound  currants,  washed,  dried  and  dredged. 
y2  grated  nutmeg. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.  Put  the  fruit 
in  last.     Bake  in  cups  or  small  pans. 

Jelly  Cake. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  flour. 

3  eggs. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of 
milk. 

Bake  in  jelly  cake  tins,  and  when  cold  spread  with 
fruit  jelly. 

Marble  Cake.     No.  i. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 
2  eggs. 

23  , 


178  CAKE. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  sifted  with  the  flour. 

After  the  cake  is  mixed  take  out  about  a  teacupful  of 
the  batter,  and  stir  into  this  a  great  spoonful  of  grated 
chocolate,  wet  with  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  milk.  Fill 
your  tin  about  an  inch  deep  with  the  yellow  batter,  and 
drop  upon  this,  in  two  or  three  places,  a  spoonful  of  the 
dark  mixture.  Give  to  the  brown  spots  a  slight  stir  with 
the  tip  of  your  spoon,  spreading  it  in  broken  circles  upon 
the  lighter  surface.  Pour  in  more  yellow  batter,  then 
drop  in  the  brown  as  before,  proceeding  in  this  order,  un- 
til all  is  used  up. 

Marble  Cake.     No.  2. 

1  y2  cups  of  white  sugar. 

^  cup  of  butter. 

y2  cup  of  SAveet  milk. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  mixed  with  the  flour. 

2^  cups  of  flour. 

Whites  of  4  eggs  beat  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Flavor  with  lemon. 

For  the  Dark  Cake,  take 

1  cup  of  nice  coffee  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  molasses. 
y2  cup  of  butter. 

y2  cup  of  sour  milk. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

2  y2  cups  of  flour. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  of  clove. 

A  little  allspice,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 

Put  a  layer  of  the  light  cake  in  your  pan,  and  mix  in 
some  of  the  dark,  then  more  of  the  light,  and  so  on  until 
your  pan  is  a  little  more  than  half  full. 


CAKE.  179 

Corn  Starch  Cake.   * 

*4  CUP  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

Whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten. 

1  cup  of  milk. 
Juice  of  y2  lemon. 

2  cups  sifted  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar  in  the  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  cup  cornstarch  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream;  then  add  the  other 
ingredients,  and  lastly  the  cornstarch.  Bake  immediately 
in  a  moderate  oven.  One  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder 
can  be  used  instead  of  soda  and  cream  tartar. 

Pork  Cake. 

1  pound  salt  pork,  chopped  fine. 

1  pint  boiling  water  poured  on  the  pork. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  molasses. 

1  tablespoonful  of  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  pound  of  raisins. 

2  teaspoonfuls  saleratus. 

Flour  enough  to  make  it  rather  thick  but  not  too  stiff. 
Bake  in  two  cakes. 

Snow  Drift  Cake. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 

1  heaping  cup  sifted  flour. 

Whites  of    6  eggs,  whipped  stiff. 

Juice  of  1  lemon  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

A  little  salt. 

Whip  the  eggs  stiff,  beat  in  the  sugar,  lemon,  salt,  and 
finally  the  flour.  Stir  in  very  lightly  and  quickly  and  bake 
at  once  in  two  loaves.  Or,  it  maybe  baked  as  jelly  cake, 
and  spread  with  this 


l86  CAKE. 

Filling. 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 
i  heaping  cup  of  powdered  sugar. 
Juice  of  i  orange  and  half  the  peel. 
Juice  of  Yz  lemon. 

Whip  to  a  good  meringue  and  put  between  the  layers, 
adding  more  sugar  for  the  frosting  on  the  top. 

Tea  Cake. 

i  y2  cups  of  white  sugar. 

5^  cup  of  butter. 

v/i  cup  of  milk. 

3  eggs. 

2  cups  of  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar.     Flavoring. 

Mix  according  to  previous  directions,  and  bake  quickly. 

Raspberry  Rolls. 

3  QEgs- 

i  cup  of  white  sugar. 

i  cup  of  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

*4  teaspoonful  soda. 

Flavor  with  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together,  for  one  or  two 
minutes;  then  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  a  few  minutes  more, 
next  the  flour  with  the  cream  tartar  mixed  in  it.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  as  little  hot  water  as  possible,  and  stir  in  thor- 
oughly; add  the  flavoring,  and  beat  well  for  a  few  minutes. 
Bake  in  two  rather  wide,  shallow  tins.  When  done  turn 
the  cake  upon  a  sieve,  and,  while  warm,  spread  a  little 
raspberry  or  strawberry  jam  over  it;  roll  up  the  cake  and 
sift  sugar  over.  This  should  be  done  carefully.  Cut  in 
slices,  when  cold. 

Icing.     No.  i. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

%  pound  powdered  white  sugar. 


CAKE.  1$J 

Lemon,  vanilla,  or  other  flavoring. 

Break  the  whites  into  a  broad,  clean,  cool  dish.  Throw 
a  small  handful  of  sugar  upon  them,  and  whip  it  in  with 
long,  even  strokes  of  the  beater.  In  a  few  minutes  throw 
in  more  sugar,  and  keep  doing  so,  until  it  is  all  used  up. 
Beat  steadily,  always  with  a  regular,  sweeping  movement, 
until  the  icing  is  of  a  smooth,  fine,  and  firm  texture. 
Half  an  hour's  beating  should  be  sufficient,  if  done  well. 
If  not  stiff  enough,  put  in  more  sugar.  If  seasoned  with 
lemon  juice,  allow,  in  measuring  your  sugar,  for  the  ad- 
ditional liquid.  Lemon  juice  or  tartaric  acid  whitens  the 
icing.  Use  at  least  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each 
egg.  In  spreading  the  icing,  use  a  broad-bladed  knife, 
dipped  in  cold  water.  It  is  better  to  dry  it  in  a  sunny  win- 
dow, where  no  dust  can  reach  it;  but  it  may  be  set  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Icing  may  be 
colored  yellow,  by  putting  the  grated  peel  of  a  lemon  or 
orange  in  a  thin  muslin  bag,  straining  a  little  juice  through 
it,  and  squeezing  it  hard  into  the  egg  and  sugar.  Straw- 
berry juice  colors  a  pretty  pink,  as  does  also  cranberry 
syrup. 

Icing.     No.  2. 

•* 

20  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

y2  teaspoonful  cornstarch. 

Beat  the  whites  until  they  will  adhere  to  the  plate  when 
turned  up;  then  add  sugar  and  cornstarch.  Rub  the  cake 
when  warm,  with  a  little  flour,  and  the  icing  will  remain 
in  place  better.  Many  persons  prefer  this  way  of  mak- 
ing icing,  but  the  directions  given  in  recipe  No.  1.  are 
recommended  as  being  preferable. 

Rich  Cookies. 

1  teacupful  of  butter. 

2  teacupfuls  of  sugar. 
2  eggs. 

y2  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar. 


l82  CAKE. 

Work  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Beat  the  eggs 
separately  and  stir  in,  first  the  yolk,  and  then  the  white. 
Mix  the  cream  tartar  with  the  flour,  and  dissolve  the  soda 
in  a  very  little  hot  water.  Mix  in  a  little  flour  before  the 
soda  is  put  in,  and  then  add  flour  enough  to  knead  soft. 
Spread  granulated  sugar  on  the  paste  board,  and  roll  the 
dough  on  it,  instead  of  flour,  and  after  it  is  rolled  thin 
enough  sift  sugar  over  the  dough  and  pass  the  rolling-pin 
lightly  over.  Be  as  quick  as  possible  in  getting  the  cakes 
into  the  oven  after  the  cream  tartar  and  flour  are  added  ; 
bake  quickly  on  buttered  papers  in  the  pans.  If  there 
is  danger  of  scorching,  cover  with  papers.  Let  them 
cool  a  little,  and  then  lift  the  paper  with  the  cakes; 
do  not  remove  the  cakes  from  the  paper  until  they  are 
cool. 

Cookies. 

2  coffee  cups  of  coffee  sugar. 

i  coffee  cup  of  butter. 

i  coffee  cup  of  sour  milk. 

2  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  saleratus. 

Spice,  or  seeds,  as  you  please. 

Flour  to  make  batter  just  stiff  enough  to  be  moulded. 

Ammonia  Cookies. 

i  cup  of  butter. 
2  cups  of  sugar. 
2  eggs. 

j£  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

^  ounce  of  carbonate  of  ammonia,  dissolved  over 
night  in  the  milk;  cover  tight.     Mix  soft,  and  roll  thin. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

Grate  a  cocoanut  and  weigh  it,  then  add  half  the  weight 
of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  white  of  one  egg  cut  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Stir  the  ingredients  together,  then  drop  the  mix- 
ture with  a  dessert  spoon  upon  buttered  white  paper,  and 
sift  sugar  over  them.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven  fifteen  minutes. 


CAKE.  l8j 

Ring  Jumbles. 

i  pound  of  butter, 
i  pound  of  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Small  wine-glass  of  rose-water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then 
the  rose-water,  next  half  the  flour,  lastly  the  whites,  stirred 
in  very  lightly,  alternately  with  the  remaining  flour. 
Have  a  broad  and  shallow  pan  ready,  lined  on  the  bottom 
with  buttered  paper.  With  a  tablespoon  form  regular 
rings  of  the  dough  upon  this,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  center 
of  each.  Bake  quickly,  and  sift  fine  sugar  over  them  as 
soon  as  they  are  done.  Lemon  or  vanilla  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  rose-water. 

Macaroons. 

%  pound  of  sweet  almonds. 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 

y2  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

Prepare  the  almonds  the  day  before  you  make  the  cakes 
by  blanching  them  in  boiling  water,  stripping  off  the  skins 
and  pounding  them,  when  perfectly  cold,  a  few  at  a  time, 
and  adding  from  time  to  time  a  little  rose-water,  or  orange- 
flower  water.  Beat  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  stir  in  the  sugar. 
Mix  well,  and  then  add  the  almonds.  Drop  with  a  tea- 
spoon upon  buttered  tin  sheets,  sift  fine  sugar  over,  and 
bake  in  a  slack  oven. 

Kisses. 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 

5  tablespoonfuls  of  finest  white  sugar. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the  sugar  and 
lemon.  Have  ready  a  nice  pan,  buttered,  in  which  lay 
white  paper,  and  drop  them  on  it  with  a  teaspoon,  and 
sift  sugar  over  them.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  half  an  hour. 
This  measure  will  make  a  cake-basket  full. 


1 84  CAKE. 

Sugar  Gingerbread. 

i  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

J^  cup  sour  milk. 

2  eggs. 

i  small  teaspoonful  soda. 

A  little  ginger. 

Flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  bake  as  soon  as  mixed. 

Hard  Gingerbread. 

^  cup  of  shortening. 

i  cup  of  molasses. 

i  cup  of  sugar. 

2£  cup  hot  water. 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

i  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 

A  piece  of  alum,  the  size  of  a  hazelnut,  dissolved  in 
the  water. 

A  dessert  spoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  molasses. 

Mix  the  ingredients,  and  add  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter;  it  must  not  be  quite  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 
Put  it  in  square  pans,  pat  it  smooth,  and  mark  it  in  strips. 

Soft  Gingerbread. 

i  cup  of  butter. 

i  cup  of  sugar. 

i  cup  of  molasses. 

i  cup  sour  or  buttermilk. 

i  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

i  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

i  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 

2  eggs. 

Enough  flour  to  make  it  as  thick  as  the  batter  for  cup 
cake,  add  the  flour,  working  it  in  gradually;  it  will  take 
nearlv  five  cups.  Stir  the  butter,  sugar,  molasses,  and 
spice  together  to  a  light  cream,  set  them  on  the  stove  un- 
til slightly  warmed;  add  the  milk  to  the  warmed  mixture, 


CAKX.  185 

then  the  eggs  (beaten  light),  the  soda,  and  lastly  the  flour. 
Beat  very  hard  ten  minutes,  and  bake  at  once. 

Sponge  Gingerbread.     {Without Eggs.) 

5  cups  of  flour. 

i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1  cup  of  molasses. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  milk  (sour  is  best). 

2  teaspoonfuls  saleratus,  dissolved  in  hot  water 
2  teaspoonfuls  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

Mix  the  molasses,  sugar,  butter,  and  spice  together; 
warm  them  slightly,  and  beat  until  they  are  several  de- 
grees lighter  than  when  you  began.  Add  the  milk,  then 
the  soda,  and  when  all  are  mixed  well,  put  in  the  flour. 
Beat  hard  five  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  broad  shallow  pan. 

Ginger  Snaps.     No.  i. 

1  cup  of  brown  sugar. 
1  cup  of  molasses. 
1  cup  of  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger. 

Boil  the  sugar,  molasses  and  butter  together,  then  add 
the  soda  and  ginger  while  warm.  Add  flour  enough  to 
mix  stiff;  and  roll  very  thin. 

Ginger  Snaps.     No.  2. 

1  large  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
1  coffee  cup  sugar. 
1  cup  of  molasses. 
%  cup  of  water. 
1  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Flour  for  pretty  stiff  dough. 
Roll  out  thin,  and  bake  quickly. 
24 


f  86  CAKE. 

Breakfast  Cookies. 

i  cup  of  sugar. 
i  cup  of  molasses. 
^  cup  of  butter. 
t£  cup  of  lard, 
i  egg. 

4  tablespoonfuls  warm  water. 

4  even  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  water. 
i  even  teaspoonful  of  ginger, 
i  even  teaspoonful  of  grated  alum. 
Flour  enough  to  make  batter  just  stiff  enough  to  be 
moulded. 

Doughnuts.     No.  i. 

i  cup  of  sour  milk. 

i  ^  cups  of  sugar. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  egg. 

i  tablespoonful  melted  lard. 

A  little  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs,  and  mix  a  nth  sugar  and  lard.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  s\\r  into  the  above  mixture  as 
rapidly  as  possible,  stirring  hi  flour  at  the  same  time. 

Knead  soft. 

Doughnuts.     ( Very  Nice.)     No.  2. 

1  cup  white  sugar  (scant). 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  cream,  or  small  piece  of  butter 
melted,  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

1  cup  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  one-half  hour,  before 
putting  in  the  flour;  this  beating  will  make  them  very 
white.  Add  flour  to  make  them  about  the  same  consist- 
ency of  cookies. 


CAKE.  187 

Raised  Doughnuts. 

1  pint  of  miik. 

^  teacupful  of  yeast. 

2  teacupfuls  of  sugar. 
yz  teacupful  of  lard. 
2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Nutmeg  or  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Put  yeast  in  the  milk,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  let  it  rise 
over  night;  in  the  morning  add  the  other  ingredients; 
work  in  more  flour,  and  let  it  rise  very  light.  Fry  in  hot 
lard. 

Crullers.     No.  i. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Flour  to  roll  out  tolerably  stiff.     Roll  thin,   cut  into 
small  cakes,  and  fry  in  a  plenty  of  hot  lard. 


SWEET-MEAT  MAXIMS. 


Cake  without  butter  should  never  be  beaten,  as  it  is 
sure  to  make  it  tough  and  leathery.  Put  the  materials 
together  as  lightly  as  possible,  stirring  it  on  the  top,  not 
from  the  bottom.  Remember  this  in  sponge  cake,  and 
save  yourself  trouble. 

To  keep  fruit  cake,  change  it  occasionally  from  a  dry  to 
a  damp  and  from  a  damp  to  a  dry  place. 

As  a  rule,  eggs  having  a  dark  shell  beat  up  nicer  than 
those  with  a  light  shell. 

All  kinds  of  cake  are  better  for  having  the  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately. 

It  is  hard  to  whip  whites  stiff  in  a  warm  room. 

Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 

Never  use  fresh  and  old  milk  in  the  same  cake. 

Remember  soda  will  not  take  the  place  of  eggs. 

A  cake  should  not  be  moved  while  baking. 

Cake  is  best  kept  in  a  tight  can  or  jar. 

Do  not  cut  more  at  a  time  than  you  expect  to  use. 

None  but  the  best  butter  will  do  in  pastry. 

In  making  pastry  everything  should  be  kept  as  cool  as 
possible. 

If  the  shortening  is  soft,  the  crust  will  be  heavy  and 
solid. 

Good  pastry  has  no  resemblance  to  putty  or  leather. 

"  Pork  fat  and  pies  kill  more  people  yearly  in  the  Uni- 
ted States  than  do  liquor  and  tobacco." 

Batter  puddings  and  custards  should  be  baked  as  soon 
as  mixed. 

For  baked  puddings  and  custards  beat  the  eggs  but 
little. 


MEASURES.  *       189 

A  Dover  egg  beater  is  worth  a  good  many  times  its 
cost  to  a  cake  or  pastry  cook. 

Flour  is  equal  to  cornstarch  for  blanc-mange. 

A  little  cream  tartar  will  keep  jellies  and  rich  preserves 
from  candying. 

To  boil  a  pudding  takes  twice  as  long  as  to  bake  it. 

Creams  and  custards  which  are  to  be  frozen  should 
have  one-third  more  sugar  than  those  which  are  not  to  be 
frozen. 

Do  not  cook  a  dish  of  custard  on  the  stove,  but  in  a 
dish  of  boiling  water. 

To  retain  the  color  of  fruit  in  glass  cans,  wrap  them 
in  something  to  exclude  the  light. 


MEASURES. 


One  common  sized  tumbler  equals  half  a  pint  or  two 
gills. 

A  quart  of  sifted  flour,  heaped,  a  quart  of  sifted  sugar, 
and  a  quart  of  softened  butter,  each  weigh  about  a  pound, 
and  so  nearly  that  measuring  is  as  good  as  weighing. 

Water  is  heavier,  and  a  pint  of  water  weighs  nearly  a 
pound. 

Ten  eggs  weigh  about  a  pound. 

A  common  sized  wine  glass  holds  half  a  gill. 

Four  ordinary  teacups  of  liquid  are  equal  to  one  quart. 


19©  ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPBS.  j^j 


a  9  2»  ADDITIONAL    RECIPES. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES.  1 93 


?94  ADDITIONAL    RECIPES. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES.  195 


PIES 


The  flour  should  be  sifted.  Lard  can  be  mixed  with 
butter  for  shortening;  use  none  but  good  butter  for  pastry; 
but  which  ever  you  use  rub  it  into  the  flour;  do  not  rub 
out  every  lump,  the  less  the  hands  are  used,  the  better. 
Add  cold  water  in  winter,  ice-water  in  summer.  If  lard 
is  used,  salt  must  be  added.  Stir  the  mixture  quickly 
with  a  knife,  after  the  water  is  added.  Do  not  mould  it, 
as  it  makes  it  tough.  The  thicjkness  of  the  crust  depends 
on  the  filling.  If  juicy  fruit  is  used,  such  as  cherries, 
plums  and  berries,  the  crust  should  be  thicker  than  for 
apple,  peach  and  pumpkin.  In  making  pies  from  juicy 
fruit,  use  deep  dishes.  Sprinkle  a  little  flour  in  such  pies 
to  absorb  the  juice.  Most  pies  require  an  hour  to  cook. 
Much  depends  on  the  kind  of  oven  used. 

Pie  Crust.     No.  i. 

2^  cups  of  flour. 
^  cup  of  butter. 
y2  cup  of  lard. 
y2  cup  of  water. 
A  little  salt. 

Mix  with  a  sharp  knife;  do  not  use  the  hand.  The 
above  is  sufficient  for  two  pies. 

Pie  Crust.     No.  2. 

To  1  quart  flour,  take 
1  cup  butter  or  lard. 

If  lard  is  used,  salt  must  be  added.  Stir  or  chop  the 
flour  and  butter  together.     Soften  this  with  ice  water,  if  in 


PIES.  19(7 

summer,  and  cold  water  in  winter.  Prepare  the  lower 
crust  and  fill  with  whatever  filling  you  may  use.  Take 
out  from  the  crust  as  much  as  you  may  need  for  the  up- 
per crust.  Roll  the  top  crust  out,  and  spread  evenly  over 
it  a  small  quantity  of  butter,  and  dredge  well  with  flour. 
Cut  the  air  holes  and  cover  the  pie.  Take  it  in  your  left 
hand,  hold  it  slightly  inclined,  and  quickly  pour  over  it 
enough  cold  water  to  nearly  wash  off  the  flour.  The 
butter  and  the  flour  which  remain  will  make  a  more  flaky 
crust  than  by  the  old  fashioned  way  of  rolling  the  crust 
repeatedly. 

French  Puff-Paste. 

1  pound  of  flour. 
Y±  pound  of  butter. 

1  egg;  the  yolk  only. 
Ice  water. 

Chop  half  the  butter  into  the  flour;  stir  the  beaten  egg 
into  half  a  cup  of  ice  water,  and  work  the  flour  into  a  stiff 
dough;  roll  out  thin;  baste  with  one-third  the  remaining 
butter,  fold  closely,  roll  out  again,  and  so  on  until  the 
butter  is  used  up.  Roll  very  thin,  and  set  the  last  folded 
roll  in  a  very  cold  place  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  mak- 
ing out  the  crust.  Wash  with  beaten  egg  while  hot.  This 
paste  is  very  nice  for  fruit  pies,  and  oyster  pdt/s. 

Mince  Pies. 

2  pounds  lean  fresh  beef,  boiled,  and,  when  cold, 
chopped  fine. 

z£  pound  beef  suet,  chopped  very  fine. 
4  pounds  of  apples,  pared  and  chopped. 
1  y2  pounds  of  raisins. 
1  pound  of  currants,  well  washed. 
S/l  pound  citron,  shaved  fine. 

Cinnamon,  nutmeg,  mace,  cloves,  allspice,  sugar  and 
salt  to  taste. 

1  pint  boiled  cider,  or  syrup  of  canned  fruit. 

Mix  thoroughly,  using  enough  of  the  liquor  in  which 


i98  pibs. 

the  meat  was  boiled,  to  moisten  it.  Heat  all  together, 
and  when  done,  pour  in  a  stone  jar.  Keep  closely  cov- 
ered in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Mock  Mince  Pie. 

4  large  crackers,  rolled  fine. 

%  cup  sugar. 

%  cup  molasses. 

i  cup  water  (more  if  necessary). 

5^  cup  vinegar. 

i  egg. 

i  cup  chopped  raisins. 

%  cup  currants. 

*4  cup  butter. 

Spices  and  salt  to  taste. 

Apple  Pie.     No.  i. 

Pare,  core  and  slice,  ripe,  tart,  winter  apples;  line  your 
dish  with  a  good  crust,  put  in  a  layer  of  fruit,  then  sprinkle 
light  brown  sugar  thickly  over  it,  lay  on  more  apples,  and 
so  on  until  the  dish  is  well  filled.  Lay  on  two  or  three 
thin  shavings  of  butter,  and  add  about  two  spoonfuls  of 
water.  Flavor  to  taste.  Cover  with  crust  immediately, 
as  the  under  crust  will  be  clammy  if  it  is  not  put  directly 
in  the  oven.  When  done,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  the 
top  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Apple  Pie.     No.  2. 

Stew  green  or  ripe  apples,  after  they  have  been  pared 
and  cored.  Mash  to  a  smooth  mass,  sweeten  to  taste,  and 
while  hot,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  to  each  pie. 
Season  with  nutmeg.  When  cool,  fill  your  crust,  and 
either  cross-bar  the  top  with  strips  of  paste,  or  bake  with- 
out a  cover.  Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  strewed  over 
it. 


PIES.  199 

Apple  Custard  Pie. 

3  cups  stewed  apples. 

4  eggs. 

1  quart  milk. 

Mash  the  apple  fine  and  make  very  sweet.'  Beat  the 
yolks  light,  and  mix  well  with  the  apple.  Season  with 
nutmeg,  stir  the  milk  in  gradually.  Lastly  add  the  whites, 
well  beaten.     Fill  the  crust  and  bake  without  cover. 

Cherry  Pie. 

Line  the  dish  with  a  good  crust,  and  fill  with  ripe  cher- 
ries, spread  sugar  over  them,  enough  to  sweeten.  Sprinkle 
a  little  flour  over,  cover  and  bake.  Eat  cold,  with  sugar 
sifted  over  the  top. 

Blackberry,  Raspberry  and  Plum  Pies, 

Are  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Green  Currants  and  Gooseberries. 

These  require  a  great  deal  of  sugar,  at  least  two-thirds 
as  much  in  measure  as  of  fruit.  Currant  pies  should  be 
made  in  a  deep  plate,  and  with  an  upper  crust. 

Gooseberries  should  be  stewed  like  cranberries,  sweet- 
ened to  suit  the  taste,  and  laid  upon  the  under  crust,  with 
strips  placed  diagonally  across  the  top. 

Rhubarb  Pie. 

Skin  the  stalks,  and  cut  in  lengths  of  half  an  inch;  fill 
the  crust  with  the  raw  fruit,  and  sprinkle  liberally  with 
sugar.  Cover  and  bake  nearly  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Brush  with  egg  while  hot,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  glaze, 
if  you  wish.     It  should  be  eaten  cold,  like  all  fruit  pies. 

If  hot  water  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been 
dissolved  is  poured  over  the  rhubard  and  allowed  to  stand 
a  few  minutes,  it  will  extract  a  great  deal  of  its  acid. 


Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

i  pound  mealy  sweet  potatoes.    The  firm,  yelloi 
are  best. 

%  cup  butter. 

^  cup  white  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

i  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

i  lemon,  juice  and  rind,  and  glass  of  brandy. 

Parboil  the  potatoes,  and  grate  them  when  quite  cold. 
They  will  be  sticky  and  heavy,  if  grated  hot.  Cream  the 
sugar  and  butter;  add  the  yolk,  the  spice  and  lemon;  beat 
the  potato  in  by  degrees,  and  until  all  is  light;  then  the 
brandy,  and  stir  in  the  whites.  Bake  in  dishes  lined  with 
good  paste,  without  cover.     Cool  before  eating. 

Cocoanut  Pie. 

i  quart  of  new  milk. 
3  eggs. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

i  pint  of  grated  cocoanut,  which  should  be  fresh. 
Bake  like  custard  pie. 

Custard  Pie. 

i  quart  milk. 

5  eggs  (if  plain,  3). 

5  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 

A  little  salt. 

Line  your  plate  with  pastry,  pour  in  the  custard  and 
bake  half  an  hour. 

Chocolate  Custard  Pie. 

1  quarter-cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  grated. 
1  pint  of  boiling  water. 

6  eggs. 


pies,  aoi 

i  quart  milk. 

t£  cup  white  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla. 

Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  very  little  milk,  stir  into  the 
boiling  water,  and  boil  three  minutes.  When  nearly  cold, 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  three. 
Stir  this  mixture  into  the  milk,  season,  and  pour  into  shells 
of  good  paste.  When  the  custard  is  "  set,"  but  not  more 
than  half  done,  spread  over  the  whites,  whipped  to  a  froth, 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  These  custards  may  be 
baked  without  paste,  in  a  pudding-dish,  or  cups  set  in 
boiling  water. 

Corn  Starch  Pie. 

3  eggs. 

1%  pints  of  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  cornstarch. 

i  teaspoonful  essence  bitter  almonds  or  vanilla. 

Boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  cornstarch,  wet  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  boil  one  minute.  When  nearly  cold,  stir  in  the 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two; 
flavor,  and  pour  into  your  paste.  Whip  the  remaining 
whites  to  a  meringue,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  When  the  custard  is  just 
"  set,"  draw  your  pies  to  the  edge  of  the  oven  to  spread 
this  over  them.  Do  it  quickly,  else  the  custard  will  fail 
by  exposure  to  the  air. 

Cranberry  Pie. 

Take  the  sauce  as  prepared  to  eat  with  meat;  grate  a 
little  nutmeg  over  it,  put  three  or  four  thin  shavings  of 
butter  on  it,  and  then  lay  on  the  upper  crust.  Perhaps  it 
may  be  necessary  to  add  more  sugar.  Instead  of  an  up- 
per crust  you  can  lay  very  narrow  strips  across,  diagonally. 

Cream  Pie. 
i  pint  milk. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch. 


SO  2  PIES. 

2  eggs  (beaten  well), 
i  cup  of  sugar. 

A  little  salt. 

Juice  of  i  lemon. 

The  crust  should  be  previously  baked.  Boil  nearly  the 
pint  of  milk,  beat  the  corn  starch  in  the  remainder  of  the 
milk;  and  stir  it  in  to  the  boiled  milk;  remove  from  the 
stove.  To  this  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  fill  the  paste. 
Then  take  the  white  of  an  egg  well  whipped,  sweeten  and 
spread  on  the  top,  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown  a  little. 

Lemon  Pie.     No,  i. 

i  tablespoonful  corn  starch. 

i  cup  of  sugar. 

i  cup  of  cold  water. 

3  eggs. 

Juice  and  pulp  of  i  lemon. 

A  little  salt. 

Cook  the  corn  starch  in  the  water;  when  cold,  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  sugar,  lemon  and  salt.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  stir  them  in  carefully  just  be- 
fore putting  in  the  oven. 

Lemon  Pie.     (  With  two  crusts.)     No.  2. 

1  cup  sugar. 
1  lemon. 

1  egg. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  egg  together;  then  add  the  lemon 
which  has  been  peeled  and  sliced.  Spread  a  small  plate 
with  paste  and  cover.  It  needs  a  richer  paste  than  other 
pies. 

Lemon  Pie.     (  With  Frosting.)     No.  3. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

A  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch. 


PIES.  203 

Have  ready  two  cups  of  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan, 
and  stir  into  it  the  corn  starch  (which  has  been  rubbed 
smooth  in  cold  water)  until  it  looks  clear.  Then  pour 
into  a  dish,  and  add  the  sugar  and  butter.  When  it  be- 
comes nearly  cool,  add  the  yolks  of  the  three  eggs  and 
one  of  the  whites,  beaten  together,  the  lemons,  and  bake 
in  two  squash  pie  plates  of  medium  size,  lined  with  a  del- 
icate crust.  Beat  up  the  two  whites  with  two  spoonfuls  of 
sugar  very  stiff;  spread  this  over  the  pies  after  they  are 
baked;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  brown  a  few  moments  in 
the  oven. 

Lemon  Pie.     No.  4. 

3  lemons,  the  juice  and  grated  peel. 
3  crackers  (grated). 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

1  cup  cold  water. 

This  is  sufficient  for  two  pies. 

Peach  Pie. 

Peel,  stone  and  slice  the  peaches.  Line  a  pie  plate  with 
a  good  crust,  and  lay  in  your  fruit,  sprinkling  sugar  liber- 
ally over  them  in  proportion  to  their  sweetness.  Very 
ripe  peaches  require  comparatively  little.  Allow  three 
peach  kernels,  chopped  fine,  to  each  pie;  pour  in  a  very 
little  water,  and  bake  with  an  upper  crust,  or  with  cross- 
bars of  paste  over  the  top.  If  the  peaches  have  been 
dried,  stew  in  a  little  water. 

Orange  Pie. 

4  eggs. 

1  cup  of  white  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  y2  oranges,  juice  and  half  the  grated  rind. 
Juice  of  1  lemon. 
Nutmeg  to  taste. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beating  in  the  orange  and 
lemon  until  very  light;  add  the  beaten  yolks,  fill  two  pas- 


204  PIES. 

try  shells  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  stiff  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  when  the  pies  are  done, 
spread  over  them,  returning  to  the  oven  for  three  or  four 
minutes. 

Strawberry  Pie. 

Cap  and  pick  over  the  berries,  arrange  in  layers,  sprinkle 
with  a  good  coating  of  sugar.  Fill  the  plate  very  full,  as 
strawberries  shrink  very  much  in  cooking.  Cover  with 
crust  and  bake. 

Huckleberry  pie  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

i  pint  of  pumpkin,  stewed  and  strained. 

i  quart  of  milk. 

i  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

A  little  salt. 

Flavor  with  ginger  and  allspice,  or  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg, as  you  prefer.  The  above  mixture  will  make  two 
pies. 

Squash  pies  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  by  using  less 
squash  and  more  eggs. 

TARTLETTS. 
Orange  Tartletts. 

2  fine  Havana  oranges,  juice  of  both,  and  grated  peel 
of  one. 

iji  cup  of  sugar,  %  cup  if  the  oranges  are  very  sweet. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

*/£  lemon,  juice  only,  to  wet  i  teaspoonful  corn  starch. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  tartlet  shells  without 
a  cover. 

Lemon  Tart  Filling. 

The  grated  rind,  pulp  and  juice  of  i  lemon, 
i  cup  white  sugar. 


TARTLSTTS.  20$ 

4  eggs. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Beat  all  together,  put  in  a  tin  pail  and  place  in  boil- 
ing water,  stir  five  minutes,  put  in  tarts. 

A  nice  dish  of  tarts  for  the  tea-table  can  be  made  of 
scraps  of  pie  crust,  that  are  often  wasted:  Roll  out  thin, 
cut  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter,  bake,  arrange  on  a  plate, 
and  place  a  teaspoonful  of  jelly  on  each  one  just  before 
tea  time. 

Cream  Raspberry  Tartletts. 

Line  a  dish  with  paste.  Sweeten  the  raspberries  very- 
sweet  with  white  sugar,  and  fill  the  dish.  Cover  as  for  a 
pie,  do  not  press  the  paste  down  at  the  edges  very  closely. 
When  done,  remove  the  cover  and  pour  over  this  mixture: 

i  cup  milk  or  cream  heated  to  boiling. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

i  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

y2  teaspoonful  corn  starch  wet  in  cold  water. 

Beat  the  whites  lightly,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk, 
mix  the  ingredients  together  and  boil  three  minutes. 
When  cold  put  them  in  the  tartlet.  Replace  the  cover, 
and  set  aside  to  cool.     Sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top. 

Strawberry  cream  tartlets  can  be  made  in  the  same 
manner. 


2o6  ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


ADDITIONAL     RECIPES.  20£ 


PUDDINGS. 


The  eggs  for  all  kinds  of  puddings  should  be  strained 
and  if  hot  milk  is  used,  stirred  in  after  all  the  other  in- 
gredients. Milk  for  tapioca,  rice,  and  such,  should  be 
boiled,  also  for  bread  and  cracker,  unless  the  bread  is 
soaked  over  night.  Suet  must  be  chopped  fine.  In  bat- 
ter pudding  stir  in  the  flour  gradually.  Put  berries  or 
cherries  in  last.  In  boiling  puddings  the  cloth  must  be 
dipped  and  dredged  well  with  flour,  and  be  sure  that  the 
water  is  boiling  hot  and  do  not  let  it  stop  boiling.  Dip 
the  pudding  in  cold  water  when  it  comes  from  the  kettle 
and  it  will  turn  out  easily.  A  flour  pudding  is  lighter 
when  all  the  materials  are  beaten  together.  If  you  boil 
the  pudding  in  a  dish  it  must  be  well  buttered,  the  same 
must  be  done  for  a  baked  pudding. 

To  cut  a  boiled  pudding  without  making  it  heavy,  lay 
the  knife  blade  first  one  side  and  then  the  other  to  warm 
it.  Boiled  puddings  should  be  served  immediately,  as 
they  soon  become  heavy. 

English  Plum  Pudding.     No  i. 

i  pound  suet,  chopped  fine. 

i  pound  fine  bread  crumbs. 

i  pound  seeded  raisins. 

%  pound  citron  chopped  fine. 

i  pound  sugar. 

1/2,  cup  of  flour. 

10  eggs. 

y2  pint  brandy. 

J^  teaspoonful  salt. 


PUDDINGS.  209 

j£  teaspoonful  saleratus. 
Cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  cloves  to  taste. 
Mix  well  together;  put  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  set  it  in 
the  steamer,  and  steam  eight  hours. 

English  Plum  Pudding.     No  2. 

1  pound  flour. 

^  pound  finely  chopped  suet. 

1  pound  raisins  (stoned). 

1  pound  currants. 

y2  pound  citron  (cut  in  thin  strips). 

6  well  beaten  eggs. 

Chopped  peel  of  1  orange  or  lemon,  and  its  juice. 

1  glass  brandy  or  whisky. 

Nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice  to  taste. 

t-/2  teaspoonful  salt. 

y2  pound  sugar. 

y2  teacupful  sweet  milk. 

A  little  saleratus. 

Mix  the  solids  well  together,  and  add  suet  to  sugar, 
beat  the  eggs  to  a  foam,  and  mix  with  them;  then  fruit  and 
spices,  next  the  liquid  and  lastly  the  milk  and  saleratus. 
Dip  the  pudding  cloth  in  boiling  water,  sprinkle  it  over 
with  flour,  turn  the  pudding  in,  and  tie  loosely.  Put  it  in 
boiling  water  and  boil  four  hours  and  a  half  continually. 

Porcupine  Pudding. 

1  cup  molasses. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 
y2  cup  butter. 
3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  raisins. 

y2  cup  of  currants. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
27 


2TO  rUDDINGS. 

i  teaspoonful  ginger. 

Mix  together  and  steam  two  hours. 

Queen  of  Puddings. 

i  pint  fine  bread  crumbs. 

i  quart  fresh,  rich  milk  (hot). 

Yolks  of  4  eggs. 

i  Y?,  cups  of  white  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  butter. 

y2  cup  of  jelly  or  jam. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  hot  milk;  rub  the  butter  and 
sugar  together,  and  stir  in  the  yolks  well  beaten.  Mix 
all  together  with  such  flavoring  as  you  like,  and  bake  in  a 
deep  pudding  dish.  When  done,  make  a  meringue  of  the 
whipped  whites  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar;  cover  the  pudding 
with  the  jelly,  and  over  that  place  the  meringue  and  brown 
in  the  oven.  Eat  cold  with  cream.  Fresh  fruit  is  very 
nice  instead  of  the  jelly. 

Black  Pudding. 

i  cup  of  suet  (chopped  fine). 

i  cup  of  molasses. 

i  cup  of  raisins. 

i  cup  of  milk. 

3^  cups  of  flour. 

1 2  teaspoonful  soda. 

A  little  cinnamon. 

Put  in  a  dish  and  steam  three  hours. 


Baked  Plum  Pudding. 

i}1  pounds  of  flour. 

i  pound  of  raisins,  seeded  and  dredged  in  flour 

y2  cup  of  suet,  powdered. 

i  cup  of  sugar. 

2  ounces  of  citron  cut  in  bits. 

5  eggs. 


PUDDINGS.  2TI 

i  teaspoonful  each,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

2  cups  of  milk,  or  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter  of  the 
flour. 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  the  spice,  suet  and 
flour,  gradually  moistening  with  the  milk,  until  you  can 
stir  with  the  spoon.  Put  in  the  fruit  by  degrees,  and  finally 
stir  in  the  beaten  whites.  Beat  well,  and  bake  in  a  but- 
tered mould  one  and  one-half  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Plum  Pudding.     No.  2. 

1  pound  bread  crumbs,  or  six  pounded  crackers. 

1  quart  milk. 

1  large  spoonful  flour. 

1  teacupful  sugar. 

1  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

J^  teaspoonful  powdered  clove. 

A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

The  same  quantity  of  chopped  suet. 

1  pound  raisins. 

6  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk.  It  is  well  to  soak  the  bread  in  the  milk 
over  night;  then  the  entire  crust  becomes  soft,  and  mixes 
well  with  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  one  hour  and  a 
half.  Serve  with  rich  sauce,  if  eaten  warm;  but  it  is  ex- 
cellent cold,  cut  up  like  cake.  A  pudding  made  in  this 
way  will  keep  several  weeks,  and  when  one  is  to  be  used, 
it  may  be  loosened  from  the  dish  by  a  knife  passed  around 
it,  and  a  little  hot  water  be  poured  around  the  edge.  It 
should  then  be  covered  close,  and  set  for  half  an  hour 
into  the  stove  or  oven. 

Cracker  Pudding. 

1  quart  milk. 

1  cup  powdered  cracker. 

3  eggs. 


JI2  PUDDINGS. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

%  tablespoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Heat  the  milk  slightly,  and  pouring  it  over  the  cracker 
let  them  stand  together  fifteen  minutes.  Stir  into  this 
first  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  butter  and  soda;  beat  all 
smooth  and  add  the  whipped  whites. 

Bird's  Nest.     {Applet) 

i  pint  cold  milk. 

3  eggs. 

5  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

6  medium  sized,  fair  apples. 
i  small  teaspoonful  salt. 

Pare  the  apples  and  take  out  the  cores;  arrange  them 
in  a  buttered  dish  that  will  just  receive  them  (one  in  the 
centre  and  five  around  it).  Wet  the  flour  smooth  in  part 
of  the  milk,  then  add  the  eggs  and  beat  all  together  a  few 
minutes;  then  put  in  the  salt  and  the  rest  of  the  milk. 
Stir  it  well,  and  pour  it  into  the  dish  of  apples.  Bake  it 
an  hour  and  make  a  melted  sauce.  For  a  large  family- 
make  double  measure,  but  bake  it  in  two  dishes,  as  the 
centre  apples  of  a  large  dish  will  not  cook  as  quickly  as 
those  around  the  edge. 

Hen's  Nest  Pudding. 

Make  a  hole  at  one  end  of  five  small  eggs  and  empty 
them,  and  wash  the  interior  with  pure  water,  shaken 
around  well  in  them,  then  fill  with  blanc-mange,  and  when 
stiff  and  cold  take  off  the  shell;  pare  the  yellow  rind  very 
thin  from  two  lemons  or  oranges,  boil  them  in  water  till 
very  tender,  then  cut  them  in  very  thin  strips  to  resemble 
straw;  add  to  them  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  simmer  fif- 
teen minutes  longer  in  the  syrup.  Lay  them  out  upon  a 
dish  to  cool,  taking  care  not  to  break  them.  Fill  a  small 
deep  dish  full  of  nice  jelly,  and  when  it  is  set  put  the 
straw  in  the  form  of  a  nest,  and  lay  the  eggs  in  it.  Nice 
for  dessert  or  supper. 


PUDDINGS.  213 

Bread  Puddtng. 

Take  nice  pieces  of  light  bread,  break  them  up,  and  put 
a  small  pint  bowl  full  into  a  quart  of  milk;  set  it  in  a  tin 
pail  or  brown  dish  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  or  range, 
where  it  will  heat  very  gradually,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour 
or  more.  When  the  bread  is  soft  enough  to  be  made  fine 
with  a  spoon,  just  boil  it  up;  set  it  off,  stir  in  a  large  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  from  two  to  four  beaten 
eggs.  Bake  one  hour.  To  be  eaten  with  a  sauce.  If 
you  wish  it  without  a  sauce,  put  in  twice  the  quantity  of 
butter,  beat  the  eggs  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon  and  half  as  much  powdered  clove. 

Sago  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

1 1^  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  sago. 

2  eggs. 

2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

y2  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Wash  the  sago  in  warm  but  not  hot  water,  twice;  then 
put  it  with  the  milk  into  a  pail  and  set  it  into  a  kettle  of 
hot  water.  Stir  it  very  often,  as  it  swells  fast,  or  it  will  lie 
in  a  compact  mass  at  the  bottom.  When  it  has  boiled 
two  or  three  minutes,  take  the  pail  from  the  kettle,  add 
the  salt,  and  the  eggs  beaten  with  the  sugar.  Add  the 
flavoring,  put  it  into  a  dish,  and  grate  nutmeg  over  it. 
Set  it  immediately  into  the  oven  and  bake  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  If  you  make  a  quart  of  milk,  three 
eggs  answer  very  well.  It  should  then  bake  an  hour. 
With  this  number  of  eggs,  the  sago  settles  a  little.  To 
have  it  equally  diffused,  take  five  eggs. 

Apple  and  Tapioca  Pudding. 

1  teacupful  tapioca. 

6  good-sized,  mellow,  sour  apples. 

1  quart  water. 


214  PUDDINGS. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

i  teacupful  sugar. 

Pare  the  apples  and  remove  the  core.  Cover  the  tapioca 
with  three  cups  of  lukewarm  water"  and  set  it  in  a  tol- 
erably warm  place  to  soak  five  or  six  hours,  stirring  now 
and  then.  Wash  the  apples,  butter  a  deep  pudding  dish 
and  lay  them  in  with  the  open  end  up.  Fill  the  holes  in 
the  apples  with  the  sugar,  and  add  a  cup  of  lukewarm 
water;  cover  closely  and  steam  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
soft  all  through,  turning  them  as  they  cook  at  the  bottom. 
If  the  dish  is  more  than  a  third  full  of  liquid,  turn  some  of 
it  out  before  you  pour  the  soaked  tapioca  over  all.  Bake, 
after  the  tapioca  goes  in,  one  hour.  Eat  warm,  with  sweet, 
hard  sauce.  You  can  make  sago  pudding  in  the  same 
way. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

i  cup  tapioca. 

i  quart  milk. 

5  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  melted. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it,  two 
hours;  drain  off  the  water  if  it  be  not  all  absorbed;  soak 
two  hours  longer  in  the  milk,  which  should  be  slightly 
warmed.  When  the  tapioca  is  quite  soft,  beat  the  sugar 
and  butter  together;  add  the  yolks,  the  milk  and  tapioca, 
lastly  the  whites.  Stir  very  well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
dish.     Eat  warm  with  sweet  sauce. 

Farina  Pudding. 

2  tablespoonfuls  farina. 

i  pint  milk. 

2  eggs. 

i  small  cup  sugar. 

*4  teaspoonful  salt. 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg. 

Set  the  milk  in  a  pail  into  a  kettle  of  hot  water.     When 


PUDDINGS.  215 

the  top  foams  up,  stir  in  the  farina  gradually,  and  add  the 
salt.  Let  it  remain  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  stir  re- 
peatedly. Take  the  pail  from  the  kettle,  beat  the  eggs 
and  sugar  together,  and  stir  them  in;  add  the  essence,  and 
pour  the  mixture  in  a  buttered  dish.  Bake  half  an  hour 
or  forty  minutes.     No  sauce  is  necessary. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 

y2  pound  grated  cocoanut. 

y2  cup  stale  sponge  cake,  broken  up  fine. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  rich  milk  or  cream. 
6  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  rose  water. 

Rub  together  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  then  add  the 
beaten  yolks.  Stir  in  the  cocoanut  when  these  are  well 
mixed.  Add  the  milk,  cake  crumbs,  flavoring,  and  finally 
the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Bake  the  pudding  nearly  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whipped 
whites  of  the  other  three  eggs,  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar  flavored  with  vanilla  spread  over  the  top,  and 
set  back  in  the  oven  until  this  is  slightly  browned. 

Berry  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

%  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

y2  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  sifted  through  a  cup  of 
flour,  and  added  to  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

1  pint  blackberries,  raspberries,  currants  or  huckleber- 
ries, well  dredged  with  flour,  stirred  in  at  the  last.  Boil 
one  hour  in  buttered  mould. 

Fruit  Valise  Pudding. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 


fl6  PUDDINGS. 

i  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar  mixed  with  the  flour. 

%  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  cups  of  milk,  or  enough  to  make  the  flour  into  a  soft 
dough. 

i  quart  of  berries. 

Stoned  cherries,  sliced  peaches,  oranges  or  other  fruit; 
jam,  preserves,  canned  fruit  or  marmalade  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  berries.  Roll  the  crust  into  a  sheet  less  than 
half  an  inch  thick.  Cover  thickly  with  the  fruit  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar.  Roll  the  sheet  closely,  leaving  a  mar- 
gin at  one  end  to  fold  over  the  roll.  Pinch  the  ends 
down  closely  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  fruit  and  then 
sew  up  in  a  bag  the  size  and  shape  of  the  valise.  Dip 
the  bag  in  hot  water,  and  flour  well  before  putting  in  the 
pudding.  Boil  an  hour  and  a  half.  Cut  the  slices  cross- 
wise, and  serve  hot  with  sauce. 

Lemon  Pudding. 
i  cup  of  sugar. 

4  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch. 

2  lemons,  juice  of  both  and  rind  of  one. 

i  pint  milk. 

i  tablespoonful  butter. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn  starch, 
wet  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Boil  five  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly.  While  hot  mix  in  the  butter 
and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  and  add  the 
sugar,  mixing  very  thoroughly  before  putting  in  the  lemon 
juice  and  grated  rind.  Beat  this  to  a  stiff  cream  and  add 
gradually  to  the  corn  starch  and  milk,  when  the  latter  is 
cold.  Stir  all  smooth,  put  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake 
Eat  cold. 

Orange  Pudding. 

5  sweet  oranges. 

i  coffee  cupful  of  white  sugar, 
i  pint  milk. 


PUDDINGS.  217 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  corn  starch. 

Peel  and  cut  the  oranges  into  thin  slices,  taking  out  the 
seeds;  pour  over  them  the  sugar;  set  the  milk  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water,  and  let  it  get  boiling  hot;  add  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  corn  starch  made  smooth 
with  a  little  cold  milk;  stir  all  the  time;  as  soon  as  thick- 
ened, pour  over  the  fruit.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  adding  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  spread  over  the 
top  for  frosting;  set  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to 
harden;  eat  cold  or  hot  (but  better  cold),  for  dinner  or 
supper.     Berries  or  peaches  can  be  substituted  for  oranges. 

Boston  Lemon  Pudding. 

2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs. 
^  cup  powdered  sugar. 

y2  cup  butter  (or  a  little  less). 

2  lemons,  all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  rind. 

2  tablespoonful s  sifted  flour. 

5  eggs,  beaten  light. 

The  yolks  must  be  strained.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  to 
a  cream;  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  lemon.  Whip  very 
light;  put  in  handful  by  handful  the  bread  crumbs,  alter- 
nately with  the  stiffened  whites;  then  the  flour.  Butter 
the  mould,  and  put  in  the  mixture  (remembering  to  leave 
room  for  swelling),  and  boil  two  hours  steadily. 

Boston  Orange  Pudding 

Is  made  in  the  same  way,  substituting  oranges  for  lemons 
in  the  pudding,   but  retaining  the   lemon  in   the  sauce. 
Both  of   these  are  excellent  desserts.      They  can  be 
baked  as  well  as  boiled. 

Rice  Pudding.     {Plain.) 

4  tablespoonfuls  rice. 
2  quarts  milk. 
8  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
28 


2l8  PUDDINGS. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  melted. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  rice,  and  soak  in  one  pint  of 
the  milk  two  hours.  Then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  the 
sugar,  salt,  butter,  and  spice.  Bake  two  hours,  and  eat 
cold. 

Rice  Pudding  with  Eggs. 

i  quart  milk. 

4  eggs. 

y2  cup  rice. 

%i  cup  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  butter. 

Handful  of  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  two. 

Soak  the  rice  for  an  hour  in  a  pint  of  milk  and  then  set 
it  on  the  stove  where  it  will  slowly  heat  to  a  boil.  Re- 
move it  in  five  minutes  after  boiling,  and  let  it  cook. 
Beat  the  yolks,  add  me  sugar  and  rice  in  the  boiled  milk, 
with  the  unboiled,  the  beaten  whites  and  lastly  the  raisins. 
Grate  nutmeg  over  it,  and  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour 
or  until  the  custard  is  a  light  brown.     Eat  cold. 

Rice  and  Tapioca  Pudding. 

y2  cup  rice. 

y2  cup  tapioca. 

^  cup  sugar. 

3  pints  milk. 

Cinnamon  to  taste. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  a  cup  of  the  milk  three  hours;  wash 
the  rice  in  several  waters,  and  soak  in  another  cup  of  milk 
as  long  as  you  do  the  tapioca.  Sweeten  the  remaining 
quart  of  milk;  put  all  the  ingredients  together,  and  bake 
two  hours  in  a  slow  oven.     Eat  cold. 


Boiled  Rice. 


i  cup  whole  rice. 
i  quart  water  (cold). 


PUDDINGS.  219 

A  little  salt. 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  rice,  put  it  in  the  water  and  set 
the  vessel  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  As  it  swells,  and 
the  water  boils  away,  add  more,  from  the  teakettle.  It 
will  require  an  hour  or  more  to  cook  it.  To  be  eaten 
with  a  sauce,  or  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Velvet  Pudding. 

5  eggs  beaten  separately. 

1  teacupful  of  white  sugar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
milk  and  added  to  the  yolks  and  sugar.  Boil  three  pints 
of  sweet  milk,  and  pour  into  it  the  yolks  and  sugar  while 
boiling.  Remove  from  the  fire  when  it  has  become  quite 
thick.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  baking  dish. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  half  a 
teacupful  of  white  sugar;  then  pour  it  over  the  top  of  the 
pudding,  and  return  it  to  the  stove  until  it  is  slightly 
browned.     Eat  with  sauce. 

Food  Pudding. 

4  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  each  egg. 
1  pint  of  milk. 
A  little  salt. 

Bake  in  jelly  tins  fifteen  minutes;  and  must  be  eaten 
as  soon  as  done.     Eat  with  sauce. 

Pine  Apple  Pudding. 

Prepare  ripe  pine  apples  by  grating  them  very  fine. 
Make  a  custard  with  cream  and  egg.  Heat  the  custard 
over  steam  until  sufficiently  hot  to  congeal  the  cream. 
Having  previously  drained  the  pine  apple  free  from  juice, 
and  sweetened  it  one  hour  before,  it  will  be  ready  to  mix 
with  the  cream.  Pour  in  a  fancy  dish  (that  has  been 
heated,  so  that  it  will  not  break)  a  layer  of  the  cream,  then 
a  layer  of  the  pine  apple,  alternately,  until  the  whole  is  in 
the  dish.     Beat  sweet  cream  stiff,  sweeten  with  loaf  sugar 


220  PUDDINGS. 

very  sweet,  and  just  before  the  dessert  is  served  add  the 
juice  of  the  fruit,  and  put  the  beaten  cream  on  the  top  of 
the  pudding.  The  only  care  in  making  this  dessert,  is 
the  danger  of  the  custard  and  cream  becoming  sour. 

Cocoa  pudding  can  be  made  in  the  same  way,  adding 
the  cocoa  milk  to  the  cream. 

Corn  Starch  Pudding.     {Boiled?) 

3  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch. 
i  quart  milk. 

3  eggs. 

A  little  salt. 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Mix  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  add  to  it  the 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  salt.  Heat  the  remainder  of 
the  milk  till  near  boiling.  Add  the  above  preparation 
and  boil  four  minutes.  Stir  briskly.  Eat  warm  with 
sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Corn  Starch  Pudding.     {Baked?) 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch 
i  quart  milk. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separate. 

3^  cup  sugar. 

Nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

i  tablespoonful  butter. 

Dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  hav- 
ing heated  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  boiling,  stir  this  in  and 
boil  three  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  and  while  still  very  hot,  put  in  the  butter.  Set 
away  until  cold;  beat  the  eggs  very  light,  the  sugar 
and  seasoning  with  them,  and  stir  into  the  corn  starch, 
beating  thoroughly  to  a  smooth  custard.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  dish,  and  b^ke  half  an  hour.  Eat  cold,  with 
powdered  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

Arrow  Root  Pudding. 

Is  made  according  to  either  of  the  recipes  for  corn 
starch,  substituting  arrow  root  for  corn  starch. 


puddings.  221 

German  Puffs. 

3  cups  flour. 

3  cups  milk. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very  light. 

3  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter. 

i  saltspoonful  salt. 

Pour  in  nine  well  buttered  cups  of  same  size  as  that 
used  for  measuring,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown.  Eat  as 
soon  as  done,  with  sauce. 

Snow  Pudding. 

y2  package  of  gelatine. 

i  pint  of  boiling  water. 

2  teacupfuls  sugar. 

Juice  of  i  lemon. 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water,  then  add  the 
boiling  water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice;  strain  it,  break  in 
whites  of  three  eggs,  beat  one  hour,  then  pour  in  moulds. 
For  sauce, 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

i  pint  of  milk. 

Make  the  same  as  boiled  custard,  and  flavor  and  sweeten 
to  taste.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

2  eggs. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 
i  cup  sugar. 

3  cups  flour  or  enough  to  make  quite  a  stiff  batter, 
i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

t  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  worked  into  the  flour. 

y2  teaspoonful  soda. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  in  yolks,  and  then 
the  milk,  salt  and  soda  (dissolved  in  hot  water)  then  the 
beaten  whites  and  flour,  alternately.  Bake  in  buttered 
mould,  cut  in  slices  and  eat  with  liquid  sauce. 


222  puddings. 

Delicate  Pudding. 

i  teacup  sweet  milk. 

i  tablespoonful  flour. 

4  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
%    Yolks  of  5  eggs. 

Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together,  and  stir  in  the  other 
ingredients.  Place  on  the  stove  to  thicken,  not  boiL 
Line  a  deep  dish  with  pastry  and  cover  the  bottom  with 
preserves,  jelly  or  any  fruit,  pour  on  the  mixture  when 
thick,  and  bake.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  whites  and  put 
on  the  top  and  brown  slightly.     Eat  cold. 

Apple  Dumplings.     {Boiled.) 

Make  a  paste  like  cream  tartar  biscuit,  and  roll  it  out 
large,  make  the  middle  one-third  of  an  inch  thick,  but 
roll  the  edges  thin.  Wring  a  thick,  square  cloth  in  water, 
flour  it  well,  and  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish;  lay  the  crust  into 
it,  and  All  with  sliced  or  quartered  tart  apples.  Close  the 
crust  together,  and  draw  up  the  cloth  around  it;  tie  with 
a  strong  string  closely,  allowing  no  room  to  swell.  If  the 
dumpling  holds  three  pints  of  sliced  apples,  boil  it  two 
hours;  when  done  take  it  from  the  pot  and  plunge  for  a 
moment  in  cold  water,  then  turn  into  a  dish.  Eat  with 
sauce. 

Apple   Dumplings.     {Baked.) 

Make  a  paste  same  as  above,  roll  it  into  a  sheet  less 
than  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  in  squares,  and  lay  in  the 
center  of  each,  a  juicy  tart  appie,  pared  and  cored. 
Bring  the  corners  together  and  pinch  slightly.  Lay  in 
buttered  pan,  the  pinched  edges  downward,  and  bake  to 
a  light  brown.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over,  and  serve  with 
a  rich,  sweet  sauce. 

Steam  Pudding. 

2  cups  sweet  milk, 
i  cup  sweet  butter. 


PUDDTNGS.  22^ 

i  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  seedless  raisins,  or  currants  or  citron. 
4  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Cinnamon  or  nutmeg  to  taste. 
A  little  salt. 

Steam  two  hours  and  you  will  have  an  excellent  pud- 
ding. 

Indian  Pudding. 

!/£  pint  of  corn  meal. 
1  quart  boiling  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  cup  of  chopped  suet,  or 
l/2  cup  of  butter. 
1  cup  of  molasses. 
1  egg. 

A  little  ginger. 

Stir  the  meal  into  the  boiling  milk.     When  cool  add  the 
other  ingredients,     Bake  two  hours. 

IndiAx^  Suet  Pudding. 

1  teacupful  of  molasses. 
1  teacupful  of  chopped  suet. 
25^  cups  of  Indian  meal. 
1  cup  of  boiled  milk. 
y2  cup  of  cold  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Good  without  eggs  though  two  or  three  can  be  used  if 
preferred.     Steam  three  hours  in  a  pudding  pan. 

Batter  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

2  even  cups  of  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  pinch  of  soda. 


224  PUDDINGS. 

Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Serve  in  the  pudding-dish  as  soon  as  it  is  drawn  from  the 
oven,  and  eat  with  a  rich  sauce. 

Or, 

You  may  boil  it  in  a  buttered  mould  or  floured  bag, 
flouring  it  very  thickly.  Boil  two  hours,  taking  care  the 
boiling  does  not  cease  for  a  moment  until  the  pudding  is 
done. 

Thanksgiving  Plum  Pudding. 

i  pound  raisins. 

i  dozen  crackers. 

4  eggs,  well  beaten. 

2  cups  sugar. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

i  teaspoonful  each,  ground  cloves,  allspice  and  cinna- 
mon. 

i  grated  nutmeg. 

Mix  together  the  eggs,  sugar,  salt  and  spice. 

Open  the  crackers  (Boston  crackers  are  best,)  and  but- 
ter them,  soak  in  milk  until  quite  soft.  Half  fill  a  pan 
(which  has  been  well  greased)  with  alternate  layers  of 
crackers  and  the  egg  mixture,  and  good  muscatel  or  box 
raisins.  Fill  the  pan  three-fourths  full  of  milk,  if  filled 
full  it  will  swell  and  run  over.  It  requires  two  hours  to 
bake.  Cover  while  baking,  if  likely  to  burn.  Slices  of 
bread  can  be  used  instead  of  crackers.  It  may  be  served 
with  or  without  sauce. 

Baked  Custard. 

i  quart  of  milk. 

4  eggs,  beaten  light,  whites  and  yolks  separately. 

5  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  mixed  with  the  yolks. 
Nutmeg  and  vanilla. 

Scald,  but  not  boil  the  milk ;  add  gradually  the  beaten 
yolks,  and  when  mixed  well,  stir  in  the  whites.     Flavor 


PUDDINGS.  225 

and  pour  into  a  deep  dish,  or  custard-cups.  Set  these  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water,  grate  nutmeg  upon  each,  and  bake 
until  firm.     Eat  cold  from  the  cups. 

Minute  Puddhstg. 

1  quart  water  boiling. 

Flour  ready  sifted. 

Add  a  little  salt  to  the  water,  and  stir  in  rapidly  the 
flour,  dropping  it  from  the  hand  until  it  is  of  proper  con- 
sistency. If  milk  is  used  with  the  water  do  not  salt  it, 
until  the  flour  is  stirred  in,  as  there  will  be  danger  of 
curdling  the  milk.  If  the  fire  is  very  hot  it  will  make  the 
pudding  lumpy. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Take  one  or  two  quarts,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
family,  put  it  into  cold  water  and  after  stirring  it  well,  let 
it  settle,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  add  more,  in  the 
proportion  of  three  quarts  to  a  quart  of  wheat.  Let  it 
stand  over  night,  and  the  next  day  boil  it  very  moderately 
two  or  three  hours  in  a  tin  pail  set  into  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water.  If  it  becomes  too  thick,  add  more  water.  The 
evaporation  is  more  rapid  at  some  times  than  at  others. 
It  should  not  be  quite  as  thick  as  hasty  pudding.  Take 
it  up  in  dishes  wet  in  cold  water. 

To  brown  it  for  breakfast,  grease  a  tin  or  dripping-pan, 
turn  the  wheat  out  of  the  dish  upon  it,  and  set  it  into  the 
stove  oven.  It  will  become  heated  through,  and  browned 
in  half  an  hour  or  forty  minutes.  Some  like  it  better 
this  way  than  when  first  boiled. 

Oat  Meal  Pudding. 

Have  a  pint  of  water  in  a  sauce-pan.  Wet  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  oat-meal  in  cold  water,  with  a  small  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Rub  it  smooth  as  you  can  (it  will  not  rub 
smooth  as  flour),  then  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water,  and 
boil  slowly  half  an  hour.  Stir  it  often.  Should  it  be  too 
thin  after  it  has  boiled  about  twenty  minutes,  scatter  in  a 
29 


226  PUDDINGS. 

little  more  oat  meal  dry  ;  if  too  thick,  add  more  water. 
eat  with  sugar  and  cream.  There  is  much  difference  in 
oat  meal.     Be  sure  and  get  fresh,  sweet,  Scotch  oat  meal. 

Graham  Pudding. 

i  cup  Graham  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

i  large  cup  boiling  water,  and  same  quantity  of  milk. 

Stir  the  wet  flour  into  the  boiling  water,  slightly  salted. 

Boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  almost  constantly.  Add  the 
milk,  and  cook,  after  it  has  come  again  to  a  boil,  ten  min- 
utes longer.     Serve  with  milk  and  sugar,  for  breakfast. 

Hominy.     {Boiled  and  Fried. ) 

Take  a  pint  of  hominy,  put  cold  water  over  it,  stir  and 
let  it  settle  ;  then  pour  off  the  water.  Do  this  twice  ;  then 
put  it  into  a  tin  pudding  pan  or  pail,  in  three  pints  of 
water  to  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  set  the  pail 
into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  ;  add  a  little  salt ;  stir  it  often. 
If  it  becomes  so  thick  as  not  to  stir  easily,  add  more  water. 
It  should  be  just  thick  enough,  when  done,  to  settle  down 
almost  smooth,  in  a  deep  dish.  Fine  hominy  will  cook  in 
two  hours  ;  the  coarse  requires  three.  This  is  nice  eaten 
with  milk. 

To  fry  it  for  breakfast,  slice  it  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  lay  it  on  a  griddle  greased  with  nice  beef  drippings 
or  butter.  It  will  require  about  fiften  minutes  to  brown 
both  sides.     The  coarse  does  not  fry  as  nicely  as  the  fine. 

Hasty  Pudding. 

Boil  in  a  pot  or  kettle  about  six  quarts  of  water,  leav- 
» ing  room  for  the  addition  of  the  meal  ;  mix  a  pint  bowl 
full  of  Indian  meal  and  cold  water,  with  a  small  spoonful 
of  salt.  When  the  water  boils,  stir  this  into  it.  After 
thirty  or  forty  minutes,  stir  in  four  or  five  handfuls  of  dry 
meal,  and  let  it  boil  as  much  longer  ;  then  add  more  dry 
meal.     Taste  to  see  if  it  is  salt  enough.     Stir  it  very  often- 


PUDDINGS.  227 

to  prevent  its  burning.  Most  people  make  it  too  thick 
and  do  not  cook  it  half  long  enough.  Boil  it  all  together 
at  least  two  hours.  When  taken  out  it  should  be  so  soft 
that  it  will  in  a  few  minutes  settle  down  smooth  in  a  dislu 
This  can  be  fried  in  the  same  manner  as  hominy. 


PUDDING    SAUCES 


Plain  Pudding  Sauce, 

4  large  spoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2  spoonfuls  butter. 

1  spoonful  flour. 

White  of  1  egg,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Stir  the  flour,  sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  the 
white  of  the  egg;  pour  into  this  a  gill  of  boiling  water, 
stirring  the  mixture  very  fast.  Add  essence  of  lemon  or 
rose,  or  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

Hard  Sauce. 

1  teacupful  of  sugar. 

%  teacupful  butter. 

Stir  together  until  light;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  essence 
of  lemon.  Smooth  the  top  with  a  knife,  and  grate  nut- 
meg over  it. 

Lemon  Sauce. 
1  large  cup  of  sugar. 
Nearly  half  a  cup  of  butter. 
*  egg. 


228  PUDDING    SAUCES. 

i  lemon,  all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

i  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  beat  in  the  egg  whipped 
light;  then  the  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Beat  hard  ten  min- 
utes, and  add,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  the  boiling  water. 
Put  in  a  tin  pail  and  set  within  the  uncovered  top  of  the 
tea  kettle,  which  you  must  keep  boiling  until  the  steam 
heats  the  sauce  very  hot,  but  not  to  boiling.  Stir  con- 
stantly. 

Sauce  for  Velvet  Pudding. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs. 

i  cup  of  white  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  add  the  eggs  well 
beaten;  then  one  cup  of  boiling  milk.  Put  it  over  the 
fire  and  let  it  come  to  a  boiling  heat.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Jelly  Sauce. 

y2  cup  currant  jelly, 
i  tablespoonful  butter  melted. 

Y^  dessert  spoonful  arrow  root  or  corn  starch,  wet  with 
cold  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Stir  the  arrow  root  into  the  boiling  water  and  heat, 
stirring  all  the  time,  until  it  thickens;  add  the  butter,  and 
set  asWe  until  almost  cool,  when  beat  in,  spoonful  by 
spoonful,  the  jelly  to  a  smooth,  pink  paste.  Stir  hard, 
and  heat  in  a  tin  vessel,  set  within  another  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, until  very  hot. 

Sweetened  Cream.     {Cold.) 

i  pint  of  cream. 

4  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 
i  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg. 

i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Mix  all  well  together,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. 


pudding  sauces.  329 

English  Plum  Pudding  Sauce. 

i  cup  of  sugar. 

i  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

i  tablespoonful  corn  starch. 

i  pint  boiling  hot  water. 

Flavoring  to  taste. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream;  and  add  the 
corn  starch  which  has  been  beaten  smoothly  with  a  little 
cold  water.  Pour  over  this  the  hot  water  and  flavoring, 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Sauce  for  all  Kinds  of  Puddings. 

i  pint  of  boiling  water. 

i  egg. 

3  spoonfuls  sugar. 

2  spoonfuls  butter. 

2  spoonfuls  flour. 

Mix  the  flour  smooth  in  cold  water,  and  stir  it  into  the 
boiling  water  and  butter,  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stir- 
ring it,  that  it  may  not  be  lumpy;  the  same  as  for  drawn 
butter.  Beat  the  egg  and  sugar  together  in  a  bowl,  and 
pour  the  liquid  over  them.  Season  to  taste.  No  farther 
cooking  is  necessary. 

[We  have  inserted  some  wine  sauces,  as  many  insist  on  the  use  of 
them  ;  but  strawberry,  orange  or  lemon  juice  maybe  used  instead,  and 
by  many  is  preferred.] 

Wine  Sauce. 

2  teacups  of  sugar. 

i  teacup  of  butter. 

2  eggs. 

i  teacupful  of  wine. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream;  beat  the  eggs 
very  light,  and  stir  all  together,  then  add  the  wine.  Mix 
and  set  on  top  of  a  teakettle  of  boiling  water.  It  must 
not  be  put  on  the  stove  nor  boil. 


m$0  pudding  saucess. 

Foaming  Pudding  Sauce. 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten. 
i  teacup  of  sugar. 
}i  cup  of  water. 
i  glass  wine. 

Melt  and  boil  the  sugar  in  the  water;  add  the  wine, 
and  stir  in  the  whites.     Serve  at  once. 


ADDITIONAL     RECIPES.  23 1 


232  ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES. 


233 


4234  ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


FANCY  DISHES  FOR  DESSERT. 

General  Directions  for  Custard  and  Blanc- 
Mange. 

Creams  and  custards  which  are  to  be  frozen  should 
have  quite  one-third  more  sugar  than  those  which  are  not. 
In  heating  milk  for  custards,  do  not  let  it  quite  boil  before 
adding  the  eggs.  A  good  plan  is  to  take  the  scalding 
milk  from  the  fire  and  slowly  pour  it  over  the  beaten  eggs, 
beating  the  eggs  and  milk  all  of  the  time,  and  return  to 
the  fire  and  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Always  boil  the  milk  in  a  vessel  set  in  another  vessel  of 
boiling  water.  Custards  are  better  with  the  whites  and 
yolks  beaten  separately;  and  stir  the  whites  in  last. 

Boiled  Custard. 

i  quart  of  milk. 

Yolks  of  five  eggs,  and  whites  of  seven. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Heat  the  milk  nearly  to  boiling;  beat  the  yolks  light 
and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Add  the  milk;  stir  in  five  whites 
whipped  stiff;  return  to  the  fire  and  stir  until  thick,  but 
not  until  it  breaks.  Season  with  vanilla,  and  pour  into 
custard  cups;  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  add  a  neaping  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar. 
When  the  custard  is  cold,  pile  a  little  of  this  upon  the  top 
of  each  cup.  A  preserved  berry,  or  a  little  bright  jelly 
placed  upon  each  improves  its  looks. 

Floating  Island. 
i  quart  of  milk. 
4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 


236  FANCY  DISHES  FOR  DESSERT. 

4  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  extract  vanilla. 

y2  cup  currant  jelly. 

Beat  the  yolks  well  and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Heat  the  milk 
hot  and  stir  in  a  little  at  a  time;  boil  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.  Flavor  when  cool,  stir  well,  and  pour  into  a 
glass  dish.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  and  beat  into 
it  the  jelly.  Lay  on  the  top  bits  of  jelly  cut  into  any 
fanciful  shape. 

Whipped  Syllabubs. 

1  pint  rich  cream. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

1  small  glass  of  wine. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  any  other  extract. 

Whip  half  the  sugar  into  the  cream,  the  rest  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Mix  these,  and  add  flavoring.  Churn 
in  a  syllabub  churn  to  a  strong  froth.     Heap  in  glasses. 

Raspberry  Trifle. 

Lay  in  a  deep  glass  dish  slices  of  sponge  cake  or  any 
delicate  cup  cake.  Pour  over  some  cream  or  juice  of 
preserved  fruit;  then  add  a  layer  of  raspberry  or  straw- 
berry jam,  as  thick  as  your  finger.  Pour  upon  this  a  pint 
of  boiled  custard,  and  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  very 
stiff,  and  spread  over  the  custard. 

Meringues. 

Whites  of  6  eggs. 

1  pound  powdered  sugar. 

Flavor  with  any  essence  you  like. 

Cut  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff.  Stir  in  gradually 
the  sugar;  beat  until  thick;  add  the  flavoring.  Butter 
slightly  sheets  of  white  paper,  and  lay  upon  pieces  of 
hard  wood  boards.  Drop  the  mixture  on  the  paper,  a 
spoonful  at  a  time,  in  oval  form,  rounded,  and  thick  at 
the  top.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  till  the  outside  is  crisp,  and 
of  a  light  brown.     Then  remove  from  the  paper,  and  join 


FANCY  DISHES  FOR  DESSERT.  237 

them  by  the  under  side,  two  by  two.  The  inside  will  be 
soft  and  creamy.  Placed  singly  upon  cream  in  a  glass 
dish,  they  are  a  handsome  dessert. 

Orange  Souffle. 

4  large  oranges. 

3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

6  eggs. 

3  gills  new  milk. 

Peel,  slice,  and  seed  the  oranges,  put  them  into  the  dish 
you  wish  to  send  to  the  table,  sprinkling  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  sugar  over  them.  Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks 
of  six  eggs,  the  new  milk,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar; 
set  aside  to  cool,  and  when  cold,  pour  over  the  sliced 
oranges.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
a  spoon  of  powdered  sugar,  and  spread  over  the  pudding, 
then  set  in  the  stove  and  brown  slightly.  Excellent  for 
dessert  or  tea. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

1  pint  of  milk. 
1  pint  of  cream. 

4  eggs. 

Yz  ounce  of  gelatine. 

Yz  cup  of  sugar. 

Flavor  with  any  kind  of  flavoring  desired.  Make  a  cus- 
tard of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar,  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  gill  of  milk  by  putting  it  in  a 
warm  place;  when  it  is  dissolved  pour  it  into  the  cream 
and  whip  to  a  froth.  When  the  custard  is  cold,  stir  it 
gently  into  the  cream.  Make  a  mould  of  sponge  cake, 
by  cutting  strips  from  the  loaf  for  the  sides,  leaving  the 
crust  for  the  bottom  in  one  piece.  Pour  the  mixture  in, 
and  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Lemon  Snow. 
Whites  of  12  eggs. 
y2  box  of  gelatine. 
1  pint  of  hot  water. 


238  FANCY  DISHES  FOR  DESSERT. 

i  cup  of  white  sugar. 

Juice  of  2  lemons. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in 
the  hot  water,  and  add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice  to  it. 
When  it  is  cooling,  add  the  eggs.     Run  in  moulds. 

Stained  Froth. 

Take  the  whites  of  three  or  four  eggs,  and  whip  them 
to  a  stiff  froth,  then  beat  into  them  the  syrup  of  damsons, 
or  any  highly  colored  preserve.  This  makes  an  elegant 
addition  to  a  dish  of  soft  custard.  Some  persons,  when 
making  custards,  lay  the  white  of  eggs,  cut  in  this  way, 
upon  the  top  of  the  boiling  milk  for  a  minute  or  two. 
This  hardens  it,  and  it  is  taken  off  upon  a  dish,  and  when 
the  custard  cups  are  filled,  a  piece  is  laid  upon  the  top  of 
each. 

Corn  Starch  Blanc  Mange. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  wet  in  a  little  cold  water. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

Vanilla,  lemon,  or  other  essence. 

One  saltspoonful  salt. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling;  stir  in  the  corn  starch  and 
salt,  and  boil  together  five  minutes,  then  add  the  yolks, 
beaten  light,  with  the  sugar;  boil  two  minutes  longer,  stir- 
ring all  the  while;  remove  the  mixture  from  the  fire,  and 
beat  in  the  whipped  whites  while  it  is  boiling  hot.  Pour 
into  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a  cold  place. 
Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Velvet  Blanc  Mange. 

2  cups  sweet  cream. 

y2  ounce  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  little  cold  water 
one  hour. 

y2  cup  powdered  white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  extract  of  bitter  almonds. 


FANCY  DISHES  FOR  DESERT.  239 

i  glass  white  wine. 

Heat  the  cream  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  gelatine  and  sugar, 
as  soon  as  they  are  dissolved,  take  from  the  fire.  Beat 
ten  minutes,  or  churn  in  a  syllabub  churn  until  very  light;, 
flavor,  and  add  by  degrees  the  wine,  mixing  it  in  well. 
Put  in  moulds  wet  with  cold  water. 

Moss  Blanc  Mange. 

In  making  this  blanc  mange  as  little  moss  should  be  used 
as  will  suffice  to  harden  the  milk.  If  the  moss  is  old, 
more  is  necessary  than  if  it  is  fresh.  Allow  half  a  tea- 
cupful  for  a  quart  of  milk.  Wash  it  and  put  it  in  soak 
over  night;  in  the  morning  tie  it  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin, 
and  boil  it  in  the  milk  gently  twenty  minutes  or  half  an 
hour.  Then  put  in  half  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  strain  it 
upon  a  large  spoonful  of  crushed  sugar,  and  put  it  into  a. 
mould  immediately,  as  it  soon  begins  to  harden.  Eat  it 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

Lemon  Cream. 

Whites  of  9  eggs. 

1  quart  of  cream. 

Juice  of  1  large  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs  well;  put  the  cream  over  the  fire,  and 
when  it  comes  to  the  boil  stir  it  swiftly  into  the  eggs,  as 
in  making  boiled  custard,  and  set  the  cream  back  on  the 
fire,  and  stir  slowly  until  it  thickens  somewhat.  Take  it 
from  the  fire  and  put  in  the  lemon  juice,  stirring  con- 
stantly all  the  time  until  it  becomes  cool  enough  not  to 
send  off  any  steam;  place  on  ice.  This  makes  a  solid 
blanc  mange,  and  is  quite  as  good  as  ice  cream. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

3  tablespoonfuls  tapioca. 

3  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

Sugar  and  flavor  to  taste. 

A  little  salt  if  you  like. 


240  FANCY  DISHES  FOR  DESSERT. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  a  little  water  for  an  hour,  or  until 
soft.  Beat  the  yolks  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  separate- 
ly. Boil  a  quart  of  new  milk;  while  boiling  add  the  yolks, 
tapioca  and  sugar,  stirring  gradually  until  thickened. 
When  nearly  cold,  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  and 
flavor.  This  makes  a  very  nice  dish  for  tea,  as  well  as 
dessert. 

Spanish  Cream. 

%  box  of  gelatine. 

i  small  cup  of  sugar. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

i  quart  of  milk. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  milk  for  one  hour,  then  put  it 
on  the  fire,  and  as  it  warms,  stir  it  well.  Beat  the  yolks 
very  light,  and  stir  in  the  sugar,  and  add  to  the  scalding 
milk.  Heat  to  boiling,  stirring  all  the  time.  Flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.  Strain  through  thin  muslin  or  tarlatan, 
and  when  nearly  cold,  wet  the  mould  in  cold  water  and 
pour  in  the  cream. 

Wine  Jelly. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

i  pint  of  wine  (white,  or  pale  sherry). 

i  pint  cold  water. 

i  package  Coxe's  gelatine. 

Juice  of  two  lemons  and  grated  peel  of  one. 

i  quart  of  boiling  water. 

Little  bit  of  ground  cinnamon. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  one  hour,  and  then 
add  to  the  water,  -sugar,  lemons  and  cinnamon.  Pour 
over  the  mixture  the  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the  gela- 
tine is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Lastly  put  in  the  wine  and 
strain  the  whole  through  a  flannel  bag.  Do  not  squeeze 
the  bag.  Wet  the  jelly  moulds  with  cold  water  and  set 
the  jelly  away  in  them  to  cool. 


fancy  dishes  for  dessert.  24 1 

Orange  Jelly. 

2  oranges,  juice  of  both  and  grated  peel  of  one. 
1  lemon,  juice  and  peel. 

1  package  Coxe's  gelatine. 

1  pint  boiling  water. 

1  y2  cups  sugar. 

1  small  cup  of  wine. 

Little  bit  of  ground  cinnamon. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  very  little  water,  one  hour. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  oranges  and  lemons  into  a 
bowl,  and  put  with  them  the  grated  peel  and  the  cinna- 
mon. Pour  over  this  the  boiling  water,  cover  tight  and 
let  it  stand  half  an  hour.  Strain  and  add  the  sugar.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  the  gelatine;  when  this  is  well 
dissolved,  take  it  off  from  the  fire.  Strain  through  jelly 
bag  into  the  moulds. 

Calf's  Foot  Jelly. 

4  calf's  feet  (cleaned). 

4  quarts  water.  g 

1  pint  wine. 

3  cups  sugar. 

Whites  of  3  eggs  (well  beaten). 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 

Juice  of  1  lemon  and  half  the  grated  peel. 

Boil  the  feet  in  the  water  until  it  is  reduced  one-half. 
Strain  the  liquor  and  let  it  stand  ten  or  twelve  hours.  Be 
careful  to  remove  all  the  fat  and  dregs.  Melt  slowly  in 
the  preserving  kettle,  and  add  the  seasoning,  sugar,  and 
the  whipped  whites  of  the  eggs;  boil  fast  ten  minutes; 
skim  well.  Strain  through  the  jelly  bag.  Do  not  squeeze 
the  bag  until  it  ceases  to  run  freely,  then  gently  squeeze 
the  remainder  into  another  bowl,  as  it  will  discolor  the 
clear  jelly;  the  second  lot  will  taste  as  well  as  the  first. 
Set  away  in  moulds,  which  have  been  wet,  in  a  cool  place. 
3i 


242  fancy  dishes  for  dessert. 

Lemon  Jelly. 

3  sheets  American  isinglass. 

2  pints  cold  water. 

i  cup  white  sugar. 

Juice  and  grated  peel  of  i  lemon. 

Break  the  isinglass  in  small  pieces  and  soak  half  an 
hour  in  one  pint  of  cold  water,  dissolve  in  this  water  the 
sugar  and  lemon.  Boil  in  one  pint  of  water  two  or  three 
cloves  for  a  few  minutes,  and  stir  into  it  the  water  con- 
taining the  isinglass,  and  strain  into  a  mould.  Wet  the 
moulds.     Let  it  set  till  the  next  day. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES.  ^ 


244  ADDITIONAL    RECIPES. 


ADDITIONAL     RECIPES.  245 


ice-cream. 

Directions  for  Self-Freezing. 


Have  ready  a  quantity  of  ice,  cracked  in  small  pieces, 
the  smaller  the  better.  This  can  be  done  by  laying  a 
great  lump  of  ice  between  two  folds  of  coarse  sacking  or 
an  old  carpet,  tucking  it  in  snugly,  and  beating  it,  through 
the  cloth,  with  an  ax  or  mallet,  until  fine  enough.  There 
is  no  waste  of  ice;  gather  up  the  corners  of  the  cloth  and 
slide  as  much  as  you  want  into  the  outer  vessel.  Use  an 
ordinary  upright  freezer,  set  in  a  deep  pail;  pack  around 
it  closely,  first,  a  layer  of  pounded  ice,  then  one  of  rock 
salt — common  salt  will  not  do.  In  this  order  fill  the  pail; 
but  before  covering  the  freezer-lid,  remove  it  carefully, 
that  none  of  the  salt  may  get  in,  and,  with  a  long  wooden 
ladle  or  flat  stick,  beat  the  custard  steadily  for  five  min- 
utes. Replace  the  lid,  pack  the  ice  and  salt  upon  it,  pat- 
ting it  down  hard  on  top;  cover  all  with  several  folds  of 
blanket  or  carpet,  and  leave  it  for  one  hour.  Then  re- 
move the  cover  of  the  freezer,  when  you  have  wiped  it 
carefully  outside.  With  your  ladle  scrape  off  all  the  frozen 
custard  which  has  gathered  upon  the  bottom  and  sides. 
Beat  again  until  the  custard  is  a  smooth,  half  congealed 
paste.  The  smoothness  of  the  ice  cream  depends  upon 
your  action  at  this  point.  Put  on  the  cover,  pack  in  more 
ice  and  salt,  and  turn  off  the  brine.  Spread  the  double 
carpet  over  all  once  more,  having  buried  the  freezer  out  of 
sight  in  ice,  and  leave  it  for  three  or  four  hours.  If  the 
ice  melts  so  that  there  is  a  quantity  of  water  in  the  pail, 
pour  it  off,  but  do  not  open  the  freezer.  In  two  hours 
more  it  will  be  ready  for  use.     Should  the  ice  melt  very 


ICE-CREAM.  247 

fast,  you  may  have  to  turn  the  water  off  more  than  twice; 
but  this  will  seldom  happen  except  in  very  hot"  weather. 
You  need  not  devote  fifteen  minutes  in  all  to  the  business 
after  the  custard  is  made.  If  you  do  not  own  a  freezer, 
a  wooden  or  tin  pail,  holding  ten  or  twelve  quarts,  can  be 
used  for  the  ice  and  salt,  and  a  three  quart  pail  for  the 
cream,  when  only  a  small  quantity  is  required. 

Ice  Cream.     No.  i. 

1  quart  rich  milk. 

6  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

4  cups  of  sugar. 

3  pints  of  rich  cream. 

5  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  or  other  flavoring. 

Heat  the  milk  nearly  to  boiling.  Beat  the  yolks  light 
and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Pour  the  hot  milk  on  this  gradually, 
beating  all  the  while.  Put  in  the  frothed  whites  and  set 
the  vessel  inside  another  containing  hot  water.  Stir  the 
custard  steadily  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  as  thick  as 
boiled  custard.  When  quite  cool,  beat  in  the  cream  and 
flavoring,  and  freeze. 

Ice  Cream.     No.  2. 

1  quart  rich  milk. 

3  eggs. 

1  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar. 

1  large  spoonful  of  corn  starch. 

Put  the  milk  in  a  tin  pail,  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  to  boil;  rub  the  corn  starch  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  add  to  it  the  sugar  and  the  eggs.  Beat  these  well 
together  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Remove  from  the 
fire  in  a  minute  or  two,  and  set  it  to  cool.  When  perfect- 
ly cold,  add  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  put  it  into  the  freezer. 


Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 


1  quart  of  cream. 

1  pint  new  milk. 

2  cups  sugar. 


248  ICE-CREAM. 

2  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

5  tablespoonfuls  chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little 
milk. 

•  Heat  the  milk  nearly  to  boiling,  and  pour  slowly  in  with 
the  beaten  egg  and  sugar.  Stir  in  the  chocolate,  beat  well 
three  minutes,  and  return  to  the  inner  kettle.  Heat  until 
it  thickens  well,  stirring  constantly;  take  from  the  fire  and 
set  aside  to  cool,  When  the  custard  is  cold,  beat  in  the 
cream  and  freeze. 

Pine  Apple  Ice  Cream. 

1  large,  ripe  pine  apple. 
1  pound  powdered  sugar. 

1  quart  of  cream. 

The  pine  apple  must  be  sliced  thin,  and  the  sugar  scat- 
tered between  the  slices;  cover,  and  let  the  fruit  steep 
three  hours.  Then  cut  it  up  in  the  syrup,  and  strain  it 
through  a  hair  sieve  or  bag  of  coarse  lace.  Beat  gradu- 
ally into  the  cream,  and  freeze  as  rapidly  as  possible.  A 
few  pieces  of  pine  apple,  unsugared,  may  be  reserved,  cut 
into  square  bits,  and  stirred  through  the  cream  when  it  is 
half  frozen. 

Orange  Ice  Cream. 

2  oranges,  the  juice  of  one,  and  the  grated  peel  of  one 
and  a  half. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  quart  of  cream. 

Sweeten  the  cream,  beat  the  orange  gradually  into  it, 
and  put  at  once  into  the  freezer.  Freeze  rapidly  in  a  pat- 
tent  freezer,  as  the  acid  is  apt  to  turn  the  cream. 

Lemon  ice  cream  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

Strawberry  or  Raspberry  Ice  Cream. 

1  quart  fresh  cream. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

1  quart  ripe,  sweet  berries. 


ICE-CREAM.  249 

Sprinkle  over  the  berries  half  the  sugar  and  let  them 
stand  three  hours,  then  press,  mash,  and  strain  through  a 
thin  muslin  bag.  Add  the  rest  of  the  sugar  and  beat  in 
the  cream  little  by  little.  Freeze  quickly;  open  the  freezer 
and  stir  several  times.  This  is  improved  by  adding,  when 
the  cream  is  stiff,  a  pint  of  whole  berries,  unsugared.  If 
these  are  added,  a  cup  more  of  sugar  must  be  added  to 
the  prepared  berries. 

ICES. 

Strawberry  Ice. 

1  box  of  strawberries. 
1  pint  of  water. 

1  lemon,  juice  only. 

2  cups  of  white  sugar. 

Crush  the  strawberries,  then  add  the  water  and  lemon 
juice.  Let  it  stand  for  a  few  hours,  then  strain  through  a 
bag  or  cloth  upon  the  sugar.  Squeeze  out  all  the  juice 
possible,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved. 
Make  it  sweeter  if  desired.  Put  it  in  the  freezer  for  an 
hour. 

Lemon  Ice. 

6  lemons,  juice  of  all,  and  grated  peel  of  3. 

1  large,  sweet  orange,  juice  and  grated  peel. 

1  pint  of  water. 

1  pint  of  sugar. 

Squeeze  out  all  the  juice  and  put  into  it  the  grated 
peels;  let  them  lay  or  steep  in  it  one  hour.  Strain,  squeez- 
ing through  a  bag.  Mix  in  the  sugar  and  then  the  water. 
Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  put  in  the  freezer. 
Beat  all  together  two  or  three  times  while  freezing. 

Orange  Ice 

May  be  made  in  the  same  manner  as  lemon  ice,  only  us- 
ing six  oranges  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 
32 


2$0  ice-cream. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Ice. 

i  pint  of  raspberries, 
i  quart  red  currants, 
i  *4  pints  of  sugar. 
i  pint  of  water. 

Squeeze  out  the  juice,  mix  in  the  sugar  and  water  and 
freeze. 


SAUCE,  PRESERVES    AND   FRUIT 
JELLIES. 


Porcelain  kettles  are  best  for  preserving.  If  bell  metal 
is  used,  have  it  thoroughly  cleaned,  which  is  done  by  pour- 
ing into  it  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  and  a  handful  of  salt,  heat 
this  and  faithfully  scour  every  part  of  the  inside.  Do 
not  let  your  preserves  stand  in  it  a  moment  after  being 
taken  from  the  stove.  If  you  wish  to  use  again  in  a  few 
minutes  even,  wash  the  kettle,  as  all  acids  produce  a  chem- 
ical action  on  bell-metal  which  is  poisonous.  Use  only 
fine  sugar  for  nice  preserves,  for,  like  every  thing  else,  the 
better  the  material  used,  the  more  satisfactory  the  result. 
Moist  or  dark  sugar  can  not  be  used  with  the  same  result 
as  white  sugar. 

If  you  are  desirous  of  having  very  nice  preserves  or 
jellies,  the  sugar  can  be  clarified  according  to  directions 
given  for  clarifying  sugar  for  candy.  Do  not  hurry  in  the 
process  of  preserving.  Weigh  accurately.  Put  up  your 
preserves  in  small  jars  in  preference  to  larger  ones,  and 
if  many  kinds  are  made,  label  each  jar  to  prevent  mis- 
takes. Keep  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place,  that  is  perfectly 
dry.  If  care  is  taken  in  weighing  and  cooking,  preserves 
ought  never  to  require  cooking  the  second  time.  This 
trouble  may  arise  if  they  can  not  be  kept  in  a  dry,  cool 
place,  and  if  so  they  must  be  looked  after  often,  as  fer- 
mentation is  quite  rapid  and  will  generally  show  itself 
soon  after  they  are  made,  say  in  a  month  or  six  weeks. 
If  they  do  need  attention  from  that  cause,  make  a  little 
syrup  and  heat,  but  do  not  cook  as  in  the  first  process. 

Cover  jellies  and  jams  with  tissue  paper,  double,  and 


252  SAUCE,  PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT    JELLIES 

wet  with  brandy,  pressed  close  to  the  conserve  before  you 
put  on  the  lid.  If  the  jellies  are  not  as  firm,  after  six  or 
eight  hours,  as  you  like  them  to  be,  set  them  in  the  sun 
with  pieces  of  window  glass  over  them.  Remove  the  glass 
at  night  and  wipe  off  the  moisture  which  will  collect  on 
the  under  side.  This  will  be  found  to  be  a  much  better 
way  than  boiling,  as  that  injures  the  flavor  and  color  of 
iellies. 

Citron  Preserves. 

Cut  the  citron  in  thin  slices,  boil  in  water  with  a  small 
piece  of  alum  until  clear  and  tender,  then  rinse  in  cold 
water.  Make  a  syrup  of  three-fourths  pound  sugar  to 
one  pound  citron;  boil  a  piece  of  ginger  in  the  syrup; 
then  pour  the  citron  in  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Put 
in  one  lemon  to  five  citrons. 

Preserved  Peaches. 

Select  ripe,  but  not  soft  peaches.  If  they  are  free- 
stones, pour  boiling  water  on  them  and  let  them  stand  for 
five  minutes,  then  pour  off,  and  their  skins  can  easily  be 
pulled  off;  cling-stones  must  be  pared.  Extract  the  stones 
and  weigh  the  peaches,  allowing  equal  weight  of  sugar 
for  the  same  of  peaches.  Put  in  the  kettle,  alternately,  a 
layer  of  sugar,  and  then  of  fruit;  set  it  where  the  sugar 
will  slowly  melt.  Crack  one  quarter  of  the  stones  and 
extract  the  kernels,  break  them  in  pieces  and  boil  in  just 
water  enough  to  cover.  When  the  fruit  is  well  heated 
through,  put  in  the  strained  kernel  water  and  boil  the 
fruit  until  tender,  take  it  out  and  boil  the  syrup  fast  until 
clear,  skimming  off  all  the  scum.  Place  the  fruit  in  a 
jar,  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  syrup.  When  cold, 
cover  closely,  and  set  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Preserved  Pears 

Are  put  up  precisely  as  are  peaches,  but  are  only  pared, 
not  divided.     Leave  the  stems  on. 


sauce,  preserves  and  fruit  jellies.  253 

Preserved  Apples. 

Firm,  well  flavored  pippins  or  bell-flower  apples  make 
an  excellent  preserve,  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as 
quinces.  A  few  quinces  cut  up  among  them,  or  the  juice 
of  two  lemons  to  every  three  pounds  of  fruit  improves 
them. 

Steamed  Apples. 

Wash  rich  flavored  apples,  take  out  the  cores  and  leave 
the  fruit  whole.  Steam  them  in  a  steamer,  until  perfectly 
tender,  take  them  out  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Baked  Pears. 

Take  a  stone  jar  and  fill  it  with  alternate  layers  of  pears 
(without  paring)  and  sugar,  until  the  jar  is  full,  then  pour 
in  as  much  water  as  the  jar  will  hold.  Bake  them  in  an 
oven  three  hours.     They  are  very  nice. 

Preserved  Pine  Apple. 

Pare,  cut  into  slices,  and  take  out  the  core  of  each. 
Allow  equal  weight  of  sugar  for  the  same  weight  of  pine 
apples.  Put  in  alternate  layers  the  sugar  and  fruit  in  the 
preserving  kettle,  allowing  a  teacupful  of  water  for  every 
pound  of  sugar.  Heat  to  a  boil,  then  remove  the  apple. 
Boil  and  skim  the  syrup  for  half  an  hour.  Put  the  pine 
apple  back  in  the  kettle  and  boil  again  fifteen  miuutes. 
Pack  in  wide-mouthed  jars,  and  pour  over  the  hot  syrup. 
Cover  and  when  cold,  tie  up  tightly. 

Preserved  Cherries. 

Stone  the  cherries  and  save  all  the  juice.  Weigh  the 
fruit  and  allow  pound  for  pound.  Put  in  the  kettle  alter- 
nate layers  of  sugar  and  fruit,  pour  over  this  the  juice 
and  boil  until  the  syrup  thickens.  The  short  stem  red 
cherries,  or  the  Morellas  are  the  best  for  this  purpose. 
The  sweet  cherries  are  unfit  for  preserves. 


254  sauce,  preserves  and  fruit  jellies. 

Dried  Cherries. 

Pit  the  cherries  and  stew  gently  with  a  little  sugar,  after 
which  spread  them  on  tins  and  dry  gently  in  the  oven. 
While  drying  boil  down  the  syrup  and  pour  it  over  the 
fruit  each  day,  a  little  at  a  time.  When  dry,  pack  in  jars 
and  paste  paper  over  the  top. 

Preserved  Crab  Apples. 

The  red  Siberian  crab  is  the  best  for  preserving.  Pick 
out  those  that  are  nearly  perfect,  leaving  the  stems  ony  and 
put  into  a  preserving  kettle  with  enough  warm  water  to 
cover  them.  Heat  this  to  boiling,  slowly,  and  simmer  un- 
til the  skins  break.  Drain  and  skin  them;  then,  with  a 
pen-knife,  extract  the  cores  through  the  blossom  ends. 
Weigh  them;  allow  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar  and 
a  teacupful  of  water  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  the 
water  and  sugar  together  until  the  scum  ceases  to  rise; 
put  in  the  fruit,  cover  the  kettle,  and  simmer  until  the 
apples  are  a  clear  red,  and  tender.  Take  out  with  a 
skimmer,  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool  and  harden;  add  to 
the  syrup  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  three  pounds  of  fruit, 
and  boil  until  clear  and  rich.  Fill  your  jars  three-quarters 
full  of  apples,  pour  the  syrup  in,  and  when  cool,  tie  up. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

Wash  and  pick  a  quart  of  ripe  cranberries,  and  put  in- 
to a  sauce-pan  with  a  teacupful  of  water.  Stew  slowly, 
stirring  often  until  they  are  thick  as  marmalade.  Cook 
at  least  an  hour  and  a  half.  When  done,  sweeten  abund- 
antly with  white  sugar.  If  sweetened  while  cooking,  the 
color  will  be  bad.  Put  them  into  a  mould  and  set  aside 
to  get  cold. 

Cider  Apple  Sauce. 

If  you  wish  very  sweet  sauce,  take  only  sweet  apples 
if  not,  one-third  sour  and  two-thirds  sweet.     Peel,  quarter 
and  core  the  apples;  lay  them  in  the  sun  two  or  three 


SAUCE,  PRESERVES  AND    FRUIT    JELLIES.  255 

days  to  prevent  the  fruit  breaking.  To  every  pailful  of 
apples,  put  one  quart  of  boiled  cider.  Boil  slowly  until 
the  fruit  becomes  a  dark  mahogany  color.  To  those  who 
like  the  flavor  of  quinces,  two  to  each  pailful,  cut  fine,, 
will  be  an  addition. 

Cherry  Sauce. 

Take  thoroughly  ripe  and  stoned  cherries;  pour  over 
them  melted  sugar  while  boiling  hot,  in  the  proportion  of 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  cherries.  Put  them 
on  ice  until  cold,  when  the  sauce  is  ready  for  the  table. 

Currants. 

Strip  them  from  the  stems,  and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  together  ten  minutes.  Take 
them  from  the  syrup  and  let  the  syrup  boil  twenty  min- 
utes and  pour  it  on  the  fruit.  Put  them  in  small  jars  or 
tumblers  and  let  them  stand  a  few  days. 

Preserved  Strawberries. 

Pound  for  pound.  Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  over 
a  slow  fire  until  the  sugar  melts.  Boil  twenty-five  minutes, 
fast.  Take  out  the  fruit  in  a  perforated  skimmer  and  fill 
a  number  of  small  cans  three-quarters  full.  Boil  and 
skim  the  syrup  five  minutes  longer,  fill  up  the  jars,  and 
seal  while  hot.     Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Ripe  Tomatoes. 

Peel  the  tomatoes  and  allow  equal  quantities  of  fruit 
and  sugar.  Let  them  stand  together  over  night;  in  the 
morning  drain  off  the  syrup  and  boil,  skimming  well.  Put 
in  the  tomatoes  and  boil  gently  twenty  minutes.  Remove 
the  tomatoes,  and  boil  the  syrup  until  it  thickens,  add  to 
it  the  juice  of  one  lemon  for  every  four  pounds  of  fruit. 
When  ready  to  put  in  jars,  lay  in  between  the  fruit,  slices 
of  lemon  and  pour  over  it  the  hot  syrup.     Cover  closely. 


2$6  sauce,  preserves  and  fruit  jellies 

Egg  Plums. 

Take  the  plums  ripe,  but  not  very  ripe.  The  skin  can 
usually  be  pulled  off,  if  not  easily,  pour  on  boiling  water, 
and  instantly  turn  it  off.  Allow  equal  quantities  of  fruit 
and  sugar,  and  make  the  syrup  in  the  usual  way.  Then 
lay  in  a  few  plums  at  a  time,  and  boil  gently  five  min- 
utes; lay  them  into  a  jar  as  you  take  them  from  the  kettle, 
and  when  all  are  done,  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  them, 
After  two  days,  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  it,  and  pour  it 
upon  them  again;  do  this  every  two  or  three  days  till  they 
look  clear.  Then  if  you  wish  the  syrup  to  be  very  thick, 
boil  it  half  an  hour,  and  when  cold,  pour  it  upon  the 
plums. 

Preserved  Green  Gages  and  Large  Purple  Plums. 

Weigh  the  fruit  and  scald  in  boiling  water  to  make  the 
skins  come  off  easily.  Let  them  stand  in  a  large  bowl  an 
hour  after  they  are  peeled,  that  the  juice  may  exude. 
Drain  this  off,  lay  the  plums  in  the  kettle,  alternately  with 
layers  of  sugar,  allowing  pound  for  pound;  pour  the  juice 
over  the  top  and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Take  out  the 
plums  at  this  point,  very  carefully,  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  draining  them  well  through  it,  and  spread  upon 
broad  dishes  in  the  sun.  Boil  the  syrup  until  thick  and 
clear,  skimming  it  faithfully.  Return  the  plums  to  this, 
and  boil  ten  minutes.  Spread  out  again  until  cool  and 
firm;  keeping  the  syrup  hot  on  the  fire,  fill  your  jars 
three-quarters  full  with  the  fruit;  pour  on  the  scalding 
syrup,  cover  to  keep  in  the  heat,  and,  when  cold,  tie  up. 

If  you  do  not  care  to  take  the  trouble  of  peeling  the 
fruit,  prick  it  in  several  places  with  a  needle,  and  proceed 
as  directed. 

Damsons, 

Are  put  up  in  the  same  manner  as  plums,  but  pricked  in- 
stead of  skinned. 


sauce,  preserves  and  fruit  jellies.  257 

Preserved  Figs. 

The  weight  of  ripe  figs  in  sugar. 

Peel  of  one  lemon  and  juice  of  two. 

A  little  ginger. 

Cover  the  figs  with  cold  water  for  twelve  hours.  Then 
simmer  in  water  enough  to  cover  them  until  tender,  and 
spread  out  upon  a  sieve  to  cool  and  harden.  Make  a 
syrup  of  the  sugar,  and  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  every 
pound.  Boil  until  clear  of  scum;  put  in  the  figs  and 
simmer  ten  minutes.  Take  them  out  and  spread  upon 
dishes  in  the  sun.  Add  the  lemons  and  ginger;  boil  the 
syrup  thick;  give  the  figs  another  boil  of  fifteen  minutes, 
and  fill  the  jars  three-quarters  of  the  way  to  the  top. 
Fill  up  with  boiling  syrup,  cover,  and  when  cold,  seal  up. 

Preserved  Orange  Peel. 

Weigh  the  oranges  whole,  and  allow  pound  for  pound. 
Peel  the  fruit  neatly,  and  cut  the  rind  into  narrow  strips. 
Boil  until  tender,  changing  the  water  twice,  and  replen- 
ishing with  hot  from  the  kettle.  Squeeze  the  strained 
juice  of  the  oranges  over  the  sugar;  let  this  heat  to  a  boil; 
put  in  the  strips  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Lemon  peel  can  be  preserved  in  the  same  way,  allowing 
more  sugar. 

Peach  Butter. 

Select  very  ripe  peaches,  peel,  remove  the  pits,  and  mash 
them;  have  ready  rich,  sweet  cider,  reduced  by  boiling  to 
the  consistency  of  molasses  (or  four  gallons  to  one);  add 
to  each  gallon,  after  boiling,  one  pound  of  sugar;  simmer 
the  peaches  in  the  cider  and  sugar  until  the  whole  is  re- 
duced to  paste;  allow  a  pint  of  the  molasses  and  sugar, 
to  three  quarts  of  the  mashed  fruit.  This  is  a  southern 
mode  of  preserving  peaches,  and  is  very  excellent;  it  is 
used  in  the  same  manner  as  cider  apple  sauce. 
33 


258  SAUCE,  PRESERVES  AND   FRUIT    JELLIES. 

Apple  Butter. 

Boil  down  a  kettleful  of  sweet  cider  to  two-thirds  the 
original  quantity.  Pare,  core  and  slice  juicy  apples,  and 
put  as  many  into  the  cider  as  it  will  cover.  Boil  slowly, 
stirring  often  with  a  flat  stick,  and  when  the  apples  are 
tender  to  breaking,  take  them  out  with  a  perforated  skim- 
mer, draining  well  against  the  sides  of  the  kettle.  Put  in 
some  more  apples,  as  many  as  the  cider  will  hold,  and  stew 
them  soft.  Take  from  the  fire,  pour  all  together  into  a 
tub  or  large  crock;  cover  and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours. 
Then  return  to  the  kettle  and  boil  down,  stirring  all  the 
while,  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  soft  soap  and  brown 
in  color;  spice  with  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  if  it  is 
agreeable,  being  careful  not  to  have  one  spice  predomi- 
nate over  the  others.  Keep  in  stone  jars,  in  a  dry,  cool 
place. 

Preserved  Watermelon  Rinds. 

Peel  the  melon,  and  boil  in  just  enough  water  to  cover 
it  till  it  is  soft,  trying  with  a  fork.  (If  you  wish  it  green, 
put  green  vine  leaves  above  and  below  each  layer,  and 
scatter  powdered  alum,  less  than  y2  teaspoonful  to  each 
pound).  Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  rind, 
made  into  a  syrup;  simmer  the  rinds  two  hours  in  this 
syrup,  and  flavor  with  lemon  peel  tied  in  a  bag.  Put  the 
rinds  in  a  dish,  and  boil  the  syrup  till  it  looks  thick,  and 
pour  over  the  rinds.  Next  day  give  the  syrup  another 
boiling,  and  add  juice  of  one  lemon,  to  each  quart  of 
syrup.  Take  care  not  to  make  it  bitter  by  too  much  of 
the  peel. 

Citrons  can  be  preserved  in  the  same  way.  Both  these 
keep  through  the  hot  weather  with  very  little  care  in  seal- 
ing and  keeping. 

Preserved  Quinces  and  Sweet  Apples. 

Equal  parts  quinces  and  apples. 

l/A  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  both  quinces  and  apples.     Cook 


SAUCE,  PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT    JELLIES.  259 

the  quince  (and  apple  if  you  wish)  parings  and  cores  in 
water  sufficient  to  dissolve  the  sugar.  Steam  in  a  steamer 
the  fruit,  a  little  at  a  time,  until  it  can  be  pierced  with  a 
straw.  The  quince  will  need  much  longer  steaming  than 
the  apple,  as  it  is  very  hard.  When  the  syrup  is  scalding 
(not  boiling),  put  the  steamed  fruit  in  it  and  let  it  remain 
till  the  next  lot  is  ready  and  then  put  in  the  jar.  It  is 
better  to  put  alternate  layers  of  apple  and  quince.  When 
the  fruit  is  all  scalded,  pour  over  the  syrup. 

Blackberry  Jam. 

Boil  and  strain  one-third  of  the  berries  you  expect  to 
use;  add  to  this  juice  as  many  pints  of  sugar  as  you  have 
pints  of  fruit  remaining,  and  let  it  dissolve  over  the  fire; 
put  in  the  berries  and  let  it  cook  until  the  juice  is  a  jelly; 
mash  the  berries  and  take  off;  seal  up  in  cans. 

Raspberry  Jam. 

Y±  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit. 

Put  the  fruit  on  alone,  or  with  the  addition  of  a  pint  of 
currant  juice  to  every  four  pounds  of  fruit.  Boil  half 
an  hour,  mashing  and  stirring  well.  Add  the  sugar,  and 
cook  twenty  minutes  more. 

Strawberry  Jam. 

For  every  pound  of  fruit  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar. 

1  pint  red  currant  juice  to  every  4  pounds  of  straw- 
berries. 

Boil  the  juice  of  the  currants  with  the  strawberries 
half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  the  sugar,  and 
boil  up  rapidly  for  about  twenty  minutes,  skimming  care- 
fully. Put  in  small  jars,  with  brandied  tissue-paper  over 
the  top.  The  currant  juice  can  be  omitted,  but  the  flavor 
will  not  be  so  fine. 


260  sauce,  preserves  and  fruit  jellies. 

Grape  Jam. 

Separate  the  skins  from  the  pulp,  keeping  them  in  sep- 
arate dishes;  heat  the  pulp  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  a 
teacup  of  water;  when  heated  through,  press  them  through 
a  colander  to  separate  the  seeds,  add  the  skins  to  the  pulp, 
and  weigh;  to  each  pound  of  fruit  add  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  just  enough  water  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing; cook  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Gooseberry  Jam 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  raspberry,  only  the  cur- 
rant juice  is  omitted,  and  the  gooseberries  are  boiled  one 
hour  without  the  sugar,  and  another  after  it  is  put  in. 
The  fruit  must  be  ripe. 

Currant,  Blackberry,  Strawberry,  etc. 

Put  the  fruit  in  a  stone  jar  and  set  the  jar  in  a*  kettle  of 
tepid  water  over  the  fire.  Keep  it  closely  covered,  and  boil 
till  the  fruit  is  broken  in  pieces.  Then  strain,  by  pressing  it 
through  a  stout  coarse  bag;  do  not  put  in  but  a  few  hand- 
fuls  of  fruit  at  a  time,  turn  out  the  pulp,  skins  and  seeds 
between  each  squeezing.  To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Set  the  juice  on  alone  to  boil,  and  while 
it  is  warming,  put  the  sugar  in  shallow  pans  in  the  oven 
to  heat;  stir  the  sugar  often  to  prevent  burning.  Boil  the 
juice  twenty  mi?iutes  from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil.  Throw 
the  hot  sugar  into  the  boiling  juice  stirring  rapidly.  The 
sugar  will  "  hiss  "  as  it  falls  in  and  will  quickly  melt.  If 
the  sugar  should  be  burned  about  the  edges,  it  will  form 
lumps  which  can  easily  be  taken  out.  Take  out  the  spoon 
when  the  sugar  has  dissolved.  Let  the  jelly  come  to  a 
boil,  and  take  instantly  from  the  fire.  Roll  your  glass  or 
cups  in  hot  water,  and  fill  with  the  hot  liquid.  If  the 
jellies  do  not  harden  as  well  as  you  like,  follow  directions 
given  in  general  directions  for  preserves  and  fruit  jellies. 
Strawberry  jelly  should  have  a  little  lemon  juice  added 
to  that  of  the  fruit.     Strawberry,  raspberry  and  blackberry 


SAUCE,  PRESERVES  AND    FRUIT  JELLIES.  261 

jellies  are  apt  to  be  less  firm  than  those  made  from  more 
acid  fruit,  but  do  not  boil. 

Quince  Jelly. 

Pare  and  slice  the  quinces,  and  add  for  every  five  pounds 
of  fruit  a  cup  of  water.  Put  peelings,  cores,  and  all  into 
a  stone  jar;  set  this  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  when 
the  fruit  is  soft  and  broken,  proceed  as  with  other  jellies. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. 

Siberian  crab  apples  are  the  best  for  jelly.  Cut  into 
pieces  without  paring  or  removing  the  seeds,  as  the  latter 
give  a  pleasant  flavor  to  the  fruit.  Put  in  a  jar  with  very 
little  water  and  place  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water;  let 
it  boil  eight  hours.  Leave  in  the  jar  over  night  closely 
covered;  in  the  morning  squeeze  out  the  juice  allowing 
for  every  pint  of  juice  a  pound  of  sugar,  then  proceed  as 
with  other  jelly. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Take  ripe  currants  (gathered  if  possible  when  the 
weather  has  been  dry  a  week),  remove  leaves  and  imper- 
fect fruit  without  picking  the  currants  off  the  stems,  mash 
thoroughly,  and  strain  through  a  strong  cloth  or  jelly  bag 
(much  depends  upon  pressing  out  all  the  juice,  as  that 
which  is  expressed  with  the  greatest  difficulty  is  the  best, 
and  helps  most  in  forming  the  jelly).  To  each  pint  of 
juice  take  one  pound  of  sugar;  put  the  juice  into  a  por- 
celain kettle  over  the  fire,  and  at  the  same  time  set  the 
sugar  into  a  not  too  hot  oven  to  dry  and  heat;  it  should  be 
stirred  often  to  prevent  browning.  Heat  the  juice  slowly, 
let  it  boil  five  minutes,  and  then  stir  in  the  hot  sugar  and 
boil  together  just  one  minute;  remove  from  the  fire  and 
fill  the  glasses  and  bowls  immediately,  or  the  jelly  will 
form  before  they  can  be  filled. 


262  sauce,  preserves  and  fruit  jellies. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Jelly. 

To  four  quarts  red,  or  black  raspberries,  put  two  quarts 
of  red  currants;  then  proceed  as  with  any  other  berry- 
jelly.     The  flavor  is  delicious. 

Green  Grape  Jelly 

Is  made  like  currant  jelly,  only  allowing  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice. 

Ripe  grapes  require  but  a  pound  for  a  pint. 

Apple  Jelly. 

Take  nice,  green  apples  that  will  cook  nicely;  quarter 
the  apples  without  paring,  put  them  in  a  pan  or  kettle  and 
cover  over  with  water,  and  keep  them  covered;  let  them 
boil  slowly  until  entirely  done;  then  put  in  a  bag  and 
drain  (not  squeeze)  them.  Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pint  of  juice.     This  is  very  easily  made  in  the  winter. 

Wild  Plum  Jelly. 

Boil  one  gallon  of  plums  in  a  quart  of  water,  until  they 
break  open,  then  proceed  as  with  other  fruit.  Allow  one 
pound  of  sugar  for  one  pint  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice 
about  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  heated  sugar  and  boil 
up. 

Crab  Apple  Marmalade. 

Stew  the  apples  in  just  enough  water  to  prevent  them 
from  burning.  Rub  them  through  a  sieve  as  soon  as  they 
are  soft,  and  to  each  pound  of  the  pulp  put  a  pound  of 
white  sugar.  Return  them  to  the  kettle  and  stew  slowly, ' 
stirring  all  the  time  until  thick.  Put  a  spoonful  of  the 
marmalade  upon  the  ice;  if  it  cuts  smooth  when  perfectly 
cold,  it  is  ready  to  take  up. 

Sweet  Apple  Marmalade. 

This  is  made  by  boiling  sweet  apples  alone  in  cider 
made  of  sweet  apples,  and  boiled  down  so  as  to  be  very 


SAUCE,  PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT    JELLIES.  263 

rich.     Strain  through  a  very  coarse  sieve  or  riddle,  and 
boil  again  a  little  while. 

Wild  Plum  Marmalade. 

Strain  the  juice  and  pulp  through  a  wire  sieve;  add  as 
much  sugar  as  you  have  strained  pulp;  boil  well,  stirring 
constantly  to  prevent  burning  to  the  kettle. 

Peach  Marmalade. 

When  the  fruit  is  pared,  stoned  and  weighed,  heat  slow- 
ly to  draw  out  the  juice,  stirring  up  often  from  the  bot- 
tom. After  it  is  hot,  boil  quickly,  still  stirring,  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  Then  add  the  sugar,  allowing  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  to  each  pound  of  the  fruit.  Boil 
well  for  five  minutes,  removing  every  bit  of  scum.  Add 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  for  every  three  pounds  of  fruit, 
and  the  water  in  which  one  quarter  of  the  kernels  have 
been  boiled  and  steeped.  Stew  altogether  ten  minutes, 
stirring  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  take  from  the  fire.  Spread 
tissue  paper,  wet  with  brandy,  over  the  top  of  the  marma- 
lade. 

Pear  Marmalade. 

6  good  sized  pears  boiled  to  a  pulp. 

y2  their  weight  in  sugar  made  into  a  syrup. 

Add  the  pulp  and  boil  a  few  minutes.  Put  in  fout 
drops  of  essence  of  cloves.  When  cold  it  is  ready  foi 
use. 

Quince  Marmalade. 

Peel,  core,  and  slice  the  quinces,  stewing  the  skins,  cores 
and  seeds  in  a  vessel  by  themselves,  with  just  enough  water 
to  cover  them.  When  the  flavor  has  been  extracted,  and 
the  parings  are  broken  to  pieces,  strain  through  a  thick 
cloth.  Put  the  quinces  into  the  preserve  kettle;  when  this 
water  is  almost  cold  pour  it  over  them  and  boil,  stirring 
and  mashing  the  fruit  with  a  wooden  spoon  as  it  becomes 
soft.  Add  the  juice  of  two  oranges  to  every  three  pounds 
of  fruit.     When  all  is  reduced  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  a 


264  SAUCE,  PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT   JELLIES. 

scant  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  every  pound 
of  fruit;  boil  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  constantly.  When 
cool,  put  into  small  jars,  with  brandied  papers  over  them. 

Grape  Marmalade. 

Take  the  cooked  grapes,  rub  through  a  fine  colander, 
measure  the  pulp,  and  add  the  same  amount  of  good  coffee 
sugar.  Cook  until  stiff;  turn  into  cups,  and  cover  with 
brandied  paper. 

CANNED  FRUITS. 


Canned  fruits  have  within  a  few  years  taken  the  place 
of  preserved  fruits  and  are  cheaper  and  much  more  whole- 
some and  less  difficult  to  prepare.  A  little  attention  will 
soon  insure  success  in  the  art  of  canning  fruit  which  for 
richness  of  flavor  far  surpasses  the  canned  fruit  which  is 
sent  out  from  the  various  factories. 

If  glass  cans  are  used,  which  are  much  better  for  the 
purpose  than  tin  ones,  be  careful  to  see  that  the  rubber 
bands  fit  tight,  and  that  there  is  no  crack  in  the  can.  If 
they  crack  after  the  fruit  is  put  in,  the  fruit  will  not  keep; 
this  may  be  prevented  in  almost  every  case  by  immersing 
the  can  in  hot  water  and  keeping  them  in  it  till  you  are 
ready  to  put  the  fruit  in.  When  the  fruit  is  sealed,  wrap 
two  or  three  papers  round  the  cans  to  exclude  the  light, 
as  the  chemical  action  of  light  will  change  the  quality  and 
color  of  the  fruit. 

If  tin  cans  are  used,  which  are  closed  with  rosin  and 
soldering,  they  should  be  heated  as  glass  cans  when  ready 
for  the  fruit,  and  care  should  be  taken  that  no  rosin  drops 
through  the  aperture  left  in  the  top  for  the  air  to  escape, 
as  a  single  drop  of  rosin  will  often  make  the  whole  can 
bitter.  Be  careful  in  opening  cans  closed  in  this  way  that 
none  of  the  rosin  gets  into  the  can.  Cans  can  be  easily 
closed  with  cement,  the  directions  for  which  will  be  found 
elsewhere.  Keep  your  cans,  if  glass  or  tin,  in  a  cool,  dark 
place.     In  canning  fruit  a  good  rule  is  to  prepare  a  syrup 


CANNED    FRUITS.  265 

of  sugar  and  water,  in  proportion  of  one  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit;  lay  the  fruit  in,  and 
bring  to  boiling  heat;  fill  the  cans  full  to  overflowing,  as 
the  fruit  will  shrink  as  it  cools,  and  instantly  cover,  then 
remove  the  cans  from  the  hot  water  in  which  they  have 
been  standing,  and  when  cool  are  ready  to  be  packed 
away.  A  good  way  in  large  fruit,  such  as  apples,  pears, 
etc.,  is  to  put  them  in  a  steamer,  with  a  cloth  in  the  bottom, 
and  steam  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork,  have  the 
syrup  ready,  dip  each  piece  in  it,  and  quickly  fill  the  cans; 
when  through,  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  the  fruit  and  seal 
quickly,  The  amount  of  sugar  to  be  used  depends  upon 
the  acidity  of  the  fruit.  A  wide  mouthed  tunnel  and  a 
small  dipper  with  perpendicular  handle  facilitates  all  fruit 
canning  very  much. 

Canned  Berries. 

Put  in  a  large  kettle,  and  heat  slowly  to  boiling,  then 
add  sugar,  in  the  proportion  of  one  tablespoonful  to  each 
quart  of  fruit.  If  there  is  much  juice  in  the  kettle,  dip 
out  the  surplus,  and  leave  the  berries  nearly  dry  before 
adding  the  sugar,  for  there  will  be  syrup  enough.  Boil 
together  fifteen  minutes,  then  can.  Strawberries,  rasp- 
berries, cherries,  currants,  blackberries,  grapes,  etc.,  put 
up  in  this  way,  make  very  nice  pies,  and  are  good  eaten 
as  preserves. 

Canned  Pine  Apple. 

6  pounds  of  fruit  (after  being  cut). 

2^  pounds  of  sugar. 

3  pints  of  water. 

Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  and  boil  five  minutes, 
and  skim  or  strain  if  necessary.  Then  add  the  fruit,  and 
let  it  boil  up;  have  cans  hot,  fill  and  shut  up  as  soon  as 
possible.     As  the  cans  cool,  keep  tightening  them  up. 

Canned  Peaches. 

The  large  free-stones  are  the  best   for   this   purpose. 
They  should  be  ripe,  but  not  soft.     Pare,  and  extract  the 
34 


266  CANNED    FRUITS. 

stone,  breaking  the  fruit  as  little  as  possible.  Allow  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  or  a  little  more  to  a  pound  of 
fruit.  Put  a  very  little  water  in  the  kettle  to  prevent  the 
fruit  from  scorching,  then  fill  with  the  fruit.  Be  sure  that 
all  is  well  heated  through.  A  few  kernels  put  in  each 
•can  improves  the  flavor. 

Canned  Plums. 

Prepare  a  syrup,  allowing  a  gill  of  water  and  one-fourth 
of  a  pound  of  sugar,  for  every  pound  of  fruit.  Dissolve 
the  sugar  and  put  in  the  plums;  prick  them  to  prevent 
bursting.  Heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Boil  five  minutes,  then 
fill  the  cans,  and  pour  in  the  hot  syrup  and  seal. 

Green  gages  are  nice  canned  in  the  same  way. 

Canned  Pears. 

Make  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pint  of  water  and  a  quarter 
•of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Peel  the  pears, 
and,  if  large,  quarter  and  remove  the  cores,  and  drop 
them  into  water  as  soon  as  pared.  As  soon  as  the  syrup 
comes  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  pears  and  boil  till  they  can  be 
pierced  with  a  fork,  and  look  clear.  Have  the  cans  ready 
hot,  and  when  filled  with  fruit,  fill  them  with  the  hot 
syrup.  If  the  pears  are  small  and  hard,  they  must  be 
boiled  in  water  until  tender,  before  putting  them  in  the 
hot  syrup. 

Canned  Tomatoes. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes,  to  loosen  the 
skins.  Remove  these,  strain  off  all  the  juice  that  will 
come  away  without  pressing  hard;  put  them  into  a  kettle 
and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Your  tomatoes  will  look  much 
nicer  if  you  remove  all  the  hard  parts  before  putting  them 
on  the  fire,  and  rub  the  pulp  soft  with  your  hands.  Boil 
ten  minutes,  dip  out  the  surplus  liquid,  pour  the  tomatoes 
boiling  hot  into  the  cans,  and  seal.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dark 
place. 


-ADDITIONAL     RECIPES.  267 


268  ADDITIONAL     REC3PMS*. 


JWmriQNAL    RECIPES.  269 


270  ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


CONFECTIONERY. 
i 

Clarification  of  Sugar. 

Take  the  white  of  one  egg  for  brown  sugar,  and  one- 
half  the  white  for  white  sugar.  Put  with  the  white  of 
the  egg  one  pint  of  water,  and  beat  it  to  a  froth;  then 
put  it  in  the  kettle  and  turn  the  sugar  on  top,  so  that  the 
water  may  pass  through  the  sugar  in  rising.  To  twelve 
pounds  of  sugar  take  one  quart  of  water.  Stir  it  lightly 
to  loosen  the  sugar.  Put  the  kettle  over  the  fire  and  stir 
once  more.  As  soon  as  it  boils  add  a  little  more  water, 
take  it  from  the  fire  and  skim  off  the  froth  which  will 
rise.  Repeat  the  boiling  and  skimming  till  the  froth  is 
colorless. 

Boiling  Sugar. 

If  a  pound  of  refined  sugar  be  dissolved  in  three  gills 
of  water,  and  clarified  as  above,  it  will  in  boiling  pass 
through  the  various  changes  or  degrees  described  in  the 
succeeding  part  of  the  directions. 

ist  Degree,  is  called  the  Thread  or  Lisse.  This  is  as- 
certained by  dipping  the  finger  first  in  cold  water  then 
into  the  hot  sugar  and  quickly  back  into  the  cold  water, 
when  the  sugar  on  the  finger  will  stretch  into  a  thread,  the 
length  of  which  depends  on  the  length  of  time  the  sugar 
has  been  boiling. 

2d  Degree  rs  The  Pearl.  This  takes  place  when  the 
sugar  has  been  boiled  a  few  minutes  longer.  Small  bub- 
bles will  rise  to  the  surface  which  look  like  pearls.  These 
will  increase  in  size  and  number  the  longer  it  is  boiled. 
If  tried  as  before,  the  thread  will  snap  quickly  when 
drawn  out.     Syrups  are  boiled  to  this  degree. 


272  CONFECTIONERY. 

$d  Degree  is  The  Blow.  If  the  boiling  is  continued  a 
few  minutes  longer,  and  the  skimmer  is  dipped  into  the 
sugar  and  then  blown  upon,  the  sugar  will  form  itself 
into  small  globules  on  the  back,  which  gives  the  name  to 
the  degree. 

4th  Degree  is  The  Feather.  This  degree  is  ascertained 
by  dipping  the  skimmer  into  the  sugar  and  shaking  it,  the 
sugar  will  form  on  the  edge  like  a  fringe. 

$th  Degree  is  The  Ball.  When,  by  dropping  the  sugar 
into  cold  water,  it  can  be  made  into  a  ball  by  rolling  it  on 
the  hand,  it  has  reached  this  degree. 

6th  Degree  is  The  Crack.  This  degree  is  reached  when 
it  has  been  boiled  sufficiently  that  when  tried  as  in  the 
first  degree,  it  will  draw  in  a  thread  and  break  quickly, 
and  be  hard  and  dry.  Taffy,  lemon,  twist  and  cream 
candies  are  boiled  to  this  degree. 

*]th  Degree  is  The  Caramel  or  Hard-baked.  As  soon  as 
the  sugar  begins  to  give  out  a  strong,  acid  odor  and  grows 
more  or  less  dark  colored,  it  has  reached  this  last  degree. 
This  is  the  degree  for  caramels  and  cocoanut  candies. 

When  boiled  hard  enough,  the  candy  is  poured  upon 
an  oiled,  marble  slab,  a  smooth  piece  of  thick  tin  will  an- 
swer nearly  as  well,  and  then  cut  into  small  pieces,  which 
are  drawn  out  into  sticks  of  the  desired  size.  Candy 
lumps  are  made  by  cutting  the  sticks  into  small  lumps  with 
a  sharp  knife  before  they  are  cold. 

Flavoring  and  Coloring. 

The  flavoring  and  coloring  matter  should  never  be 
boiled,  but  should  be  added  just  as  it  is  about  to  be  taken 
from  the  fire.  Boiling  destroys  the  fineness  of  the  flavor, 
and  brilliancy  of  the  color.  White  candy  may  easily  be 
stripped  or  decorated  with  colored  designs,  by  taking  a  lit- 
tle of  the  syrup  from  the  kettle  while  yet  soft,  and  color- 
ing as  may  be  desired;  then  boil  the  remainder  brittle,  cut 
into  lumps  or  sticks,  and  then  stripe  on  the  outside  with 
the  soft,  colored  candy. 

All  mineral  substance,   except  pure  ultra  marine  and 


CONFECTIONERY.  273 

Prussian  blue,  are  poisonous.  Brilliant  colors  can  be  pro- 
duced without  using  poisonous  substances.  For  red,  use 
cochineal,  carmine  or  Brazil-wood;  for  blue,  Prussian  blue, 
blue  lake,  indigo  precipitate  and  pure  ultra  marine;  for 
yellow,  saffron,  marigold  and  turmeric.  All  of  these, 
which  are  but  a  few  of  the  many  used,  mix  well  to  pro- 
duce different  shades,  and  are  harmless.  If  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  soda  be  used  for  one  quart  of  molasses  it  will 
make  that  kind  of  candy  much  whiter  and  tenderer. 

Everton  Taffy. 

3  ounces  butter  melted. 

1  pound  of  brown  sugar. 

Grated  rind  of  a  lemon  or  teaspoon  of  ginger. 

Boil  the  mixture  over  a  clear  fire  until  the  syrup,  when 
dropped  into  cold  water,  breaks  between  the  teeth,  with- 
out adhering  to  them.  Fifteen  minutes  is  usually  long 
enough  for  boiling.  Pour  into  buttered  pans.  If  lemon 
peel  is  used,  put  it  in  when  the  sugar  is  half  done;  if  gin- 
ger is  used,  stir  it  in  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 

Almond  Taffy. 

5  ounces  butter,  melted. 

1  pound  brown  sugar. 

2  ounces  of  almonds. 

The  almonds  must  be  blanched,  split  and  thoroughly 
dried  in  a  slow  oven.  Peanuts,  hickory  nuts  or  cocoanut 
may  be  substituted  for  almonds.  Lemon  or  rose  water 
used  for  flavoring.  Boil  the  mixture  to  caramel,  then  pour 
quickly  into  buttered  pans.  A  single  minute  suffices  to 
burn  and  spoil  the  candy  at  this  stage. 

Best  White  Molasses  Candy. 

1  pound  granulated  sugar. 

1  pint  Stewart's  syrup. 

Boil  till  quite  thick  when  dropped  into  cold  water. 

Then  add  1  pint  best  Porto  Rico  molasses. 

3  or  4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 

35 


274  CONFECTIONERY. 

Boil  to  the  snap,  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  quick- 
ly one-half  a  small  tablespoonful  soda,  and  flavor  with 
essence  of  lemon.  Pour  on  the  slab  and  work  white. 
This  makes  a  better  candy  than  that  which  is  usually  sold 
by  confectioners.  Good  candy  can  be  made  in  this  way 
by  using  all  Porto  Rico  molasses;  it  can  also  be  made 
with  no  sugar. 

Cream  Candy. 

%  pound  loaf  sugar. 

i  gill  water. 

Set  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour,  then  add 

y2  teaspoonful  gum  arabic  (dissolved). 

y2  tablespoon  of  vinegar. 

Boil  till  it  is  brittle,  then  take  off  and  flavor  to  suit  your 
taste,  Rub  the  hands  with  sweet  butter  and  pull  the 
candy  till  it  is  white,  after  which  cut  in  any  shape  desired. 

Common  Lemon  Candy. 

i  pound  of  brown  sugar  (clarified). 

Extract  of  lemon  or  lemon  juice;  if  wanted  especially 
sour  use  a  little  tartaric  acid. 

Peppermint,  rose  or  hoarhound  may  be  used  instead  of 
lemon.  Boil  till  it  is  brittle,  pour  on  buttered  pans  or  on 
a  slab,  and  cut  it  in  sticks. 

Caramels. 

Boil  clarified  sugar  till  it  is  very  brittle  and  has  a  slight 
odor  of  burning.  Pour  it  on  the  slab.  As  soon  as  cool 
enough  to  receive  an  impression  with  the  finger,  stamping 
it  in  small  squares,  about  an  inch  in  size,  with  a  caramel 
mould.  Turn  over  the  mass,  wipe  the  bottom  to  remove 
any  oil  that  may  adhere  to  it,  put  it  in  a  dry  place  to  harden. 
If  you  have  no  caramel  mould  it  can  be  scored  with  a 
knife,  after  which  they  are  glazed  with  another  coating  of 
sugar.     Caramels  should  be  kept  tightly  closed. 


confectionery.  275 

Lemon  Caramels. 

Prepare  the  syrup  as  for  caramels;  when  nearly  done 
add  the  lemon  which  has  been  prepared  by  grating  the 
yellow  peel  with  a  lump  of  sugar  and  to  the  grated  peel  a 
few  drops  of  the  juice  with  water  enough  to  dissolve  the 
sugar  completely,  stir  this  in  a  few  minutes  before  taking 
from  the  fire.  Orange  and  Lime  caramels  are  prepared 
in  the  same  way  from  these  fruits. 

Coffee  Caramel. 

2  ounces  coffee. 

1  pound  sugar. 

Make  an  infusion  of  the  coffee  using  as  little  water  as 
possible,  strain  it  through  a  cloth  and  stir  gradually  into 
the  boiled  syrup  a  few  minutes  before  taking  it  from  the 
fire. 

Chocolate  Caramel. 

y2  pound  chocolate. 

2  cups  sugar. 
!/£  cup  milk. 

Small  lump  of  butter. 

Scrape  the  chocolate  in  the  milk,  add  it  to  the  boiled 
sugar  and  stir  in  the  butter,  same  as  in  coffee  caramel. 

Cream  Coffee  Caramels. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

1  cup  cream. 

2  ounces  butter. 
2  ounces  coffee. 

Boil  the  sugar  in  a  large  sauce-pan  to  give  room  for  ex- 
pansion. As  soon  as  it  begins  to  bubble,  stir  in  the  cream 
very  slowly;  add  next  the  butter,  then  the  coffee  infused 
with  a  little  butter.  Stir  constantly  over  a  good  fire. 
When  the  syrup  is  brittle  and  has  a  slight  odor  of  caramel, 
pour  it  on  a  slab,  let  it  cool  and  imprint  with  a  caramel 
mould. 


2j6  CONFECTIONERY. 

Cream  Chocolate  Caramel. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

4  ounces  chocolate. 

2  ounces  butter. 

i  cup  cream. 

Made  the  same  as  cream  coffee  caramel. 

Ginger  Candy  Tablets. 

t  pound  loaf  sugar. 

Juice  of  half  a  lemon,  or  a  few  drops  of  acetic  acid. 

i  dessert  spoonful  essence  of  Jamaica  ginger. 

Take  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  the  sugar,  and  boil 
it  to  the  ball  degree;  then  add  the  acid  and  essence.  Rub 
the  sugar  with  the  back  of  the  bowl  of  a  silver  spoon 
against  the  sides  of  the  kettle,  until  it  is  whitened  or 
grained,  and  somewhat  resembles  an  opal  in  color.  After 
the  sugar  has  been  so  worked  pour  it  immediately  into 
very  small  moulds  measuring  half  an  inch  or  an  inch 
square,  a  tin  pan  which  is  divided  into  small  squares  can 
be  used;  when  the  candy  has  dried,  it  can  then  be  snapped 
apart  into  the  tablets.  Smear  the  moulds  slightly  with  oil 
of  almonds.  The  tablets  should  be  dried  hard  under  a 
screen  for  half  an  hour. 

Vanilla  Candy  Tablets. 

i  pound  loaf  sugar. 

A  few  drops  essence  of  vanilla. 

A  few  drops  acetic  acid. 

No  color.     Made  same  as  ginger  candy  tablets. 

Cinnamon  Candy  Tablets. 

i  pound  loaf  sugar. 
A  few  drops  essence  cinnamon. 

Boil  the  sugar  to  the  crack.  This  may  be  colored  rose- 
pink.     The  color  is  added  while  the  sugar  is  boiling. 


confectionery.  277 

Nut  Candy. 

2  cups  sugar. 
1  table  spoon  vinegar. 
1  cup  nuts. 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut. 
Tartaric  acid  size  of  a  small  bean. 
Boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.     Stir  in  the 
nuts  when  ready  to  pour  out. 


DRINKS, 

Tea. 

Tea  consists  of  the  prepared  leaves  of  the  tea  plant,  a 
hardy  shrub  which  grows  from  three  to  six  feet  high, 
chiefly  in  China. 

The  plant  is  raised  from  the  seed,  and  matures  in  from 
two  to  three  years,  yielding  usually  three  crops  of  leaves 
each  season.  The  leaves  are  picked  by  hand  in  May  and 
June.     The  plant  yields  leaves  from  four  to  six  seasons. 

Many  varieties  of  tea  of  all  grades  of  quality  are  known 
in  the  market.  These  depend  first  upon  the  soil,  climate, 
culture,  etc.,  of  the  locality  where  it  is  grown.  Second, 
upon  the  time  of  picking;  the  young  leaves  that  are  first 
gathered  being  tender  and  delicate,  while  the  second  and 
third  are  more  bitter,  tough  and  woody.  Third,  the  mode 
of  treatment  or  preparation,  which  consists  in  drying  and 
roasting  and  rolling  in  the  hand,  by  which  the  leaves  ac- 
quire their  twisted  appearance,  and  finally,  sifting  and 
winnowing. 

All  the  different  varieties  of  tea  are  classed  as  either 
green  or  black.  What  constituted  the  real  difference  was 
long  a  matter  of  doubt.  It  was  first  supposed  that  they 
came  from  different  species  of  plants,  but  the  latest  ac- 
counts agree  that  they  come  from  the  same  species,  but 
differ  on  account  of  being  differently  treated. 

Green  tea  is  cultivated  in  manured  soil.  The  leaves 
are  steamed,  withered  and  roasted,  almost  immediately  af- 
ter gathering.  They  are  dried  quickly  after  the  rolling 
process,  the  whole  operation  being  brief  and  simple. 

Black  tea  is  grown  chiefly  on  the  slopes  of  hills  and 
ledges  of  mountains.     The  leaves  are  allowed  to  be  spread 


DRINKS.  279 

out  in  the  air  for  some  time  after  they  are  gathered,  and 
are  then  tossed  about  until  they  become  soft  and  flaccid, 
they  are  then  roasted  for  a  few  minutes  and  rolled,  after 
which  they  are  exposed  to  the  air  a  few  hours,  in  a  soft, 
moist  state,  and  lastly,  are  slowly  dried  over  a  charcoal 
fire. 

Green  tea  gives  up  much  less  of  its  juice  in  the  drying 
process,  which  explains  its  more  energetic  action  upon  the 
nervous  system. 

The  most  important  teas  of  commerce  are  arranged 
according  to  their  grade,  and  price  per  pound  paid  for 
them  in  Canton: 


18  cts. 

25     " 
30     " 

35     " 
40     " 

75     " 

The  Chinese  method  of  making  tea  is  to  throw  some 
tea  into  a  cup  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  then  cover 
the  cup  with  a  shallow  saucer,  and  let  it  rest  for  some 
time.  After  standing  sufficiently  they  pour  the  clear 
liquid  into  a  saucer  and  drink  it  hot.  Various  methods 
are  pursued  in  different  countries,  but  it  is  desirable  to 
obtain  from  the  leaves  the  largest  amount  of  matter  which 
water  will  extract  and  retain  in  the  liquid,  therefore  the 
best  plan  is  to  pour  boiling  water  upon  the  tea  in  a  close 
vessel  and  let  it  gently  heat  for  a  few  minutes. 

Teas  of  all  sorts  are  liable  to  the  grossest  adulterations. 
Green  teas  are  extensively  stained  or  painted  by  the  Chi- 
nese to  heighten  their  green  color.  Other  leaves  are  often 
mixed  with  the  tea  leaves.  A  crude  and  worthless  prep- 
aration of  sweepings,  dust,  sand,  leaves  and  other  impu- 
rities of  the  tea  warehouse,  are  cemented  together  with 
gum  or  rice  water,  which  the  Chinese  honestly  call  lie  tea, 
is  employed  to  mix  with  other  tea. 


Green  Teas. 

Black 

Teas 

Twangay,          18  to  27 

cts. 

Bohea, 

12  to 

Hyson  Skin,     18    "  30 

a 

Congou, 

22   " 

Young  Hyson,  27   "  40 

a 

Campoi, 

22    " 

Hyson,              40   "   56 

a 

Souchong, 

20   " 

Imperial,           45    "   58 

a 

Caper, 

20  " 

Gunpowder,     45    "   60 

a 

Pekoe, 

35   " 

2&>  DRINKS. 

In  England,  exhausted  leaves  are  bought  up  and  their 
astringent  property  restored  by  the  addition  of  catachu 
(a  tanning  extract),  and  colored  with  black  lead,  logwood, 
etc.,  and  sold  as  genuine  tea.  These  adulterations  are 
carried  on  so  extensively,  that  it  is  said  we  never  get  pure 
green  tea. 

To  detect  indigo  or  Prussian  blue  in  tea,  let  a  portion 
of  it  be  shaken  with  cold  water  and  thrown  upon  a  bit  of 
muslin,  the  fine  coloring  matter  will  pass  through  the 
muslin  and  settle  to  the  bottom  of  the  water.  When  the 
water  is  poured  off,  the  blue  matter  may  be  treated  with 
a  solution  of  chloride  of  lime.  If  it  is  bleached,  the  col- 
oring matter  is  indigo.  If  potash  makes  it  brown,  and 
afterwards  a  few  drops  of  sulphuric  acid  make  it  blue 
again,  it  is  Prussian  blue. 

Dr.  Edward  Smith  says:  "The  conclusions  at  which  we 
arrived  after  our  researches  in  1858,  were  that  tea  should 
not  be  taken  without  food,  unless  after  a  full  meal;  or  with 
insufficient  food,  or  by  the  young  or  very  feeble,  and  that 
its  essential  action  is  to  waste  the  system,  or  consume  food 
by  promoting  vital  action  which  it  does  not  support,  and 
they  have  not  been  disproved  by  any  subsequent  scientific 
researches."  He  also  says:  "The  perceptible  effects  of 
full  doses  of  tea,  which  are  generally,  if  not  universally, 
admitted  are: 

1  st.     A  sense  of  wakefulness. 

2d.  Clearness  of  mind,  and  activity  of  thought  and 
imagination. 

3d.     Increased  disposition  to  muscular  exertion. 

4th.  Reaction,  with  sense  of  exhaustion  in  the  morn- 
ing following  the  preceding  efforts,  and  in  proportion  to' 
them." 

Tea  is  a  strong  narcotic,  and  like  all  other  narcotics, 
produces  a  morbid  state  of  brain  and  nervous  system. 
It  is  especially  hurtful  to  persons  of  a  nervous  tempera- 
ment, and  to  growing  children  of  this  constitution  it  should 
be  strictly  denied.  Dr.  Settson  declares  that  it  is  the 
main  cause  of  scrofula.  Those  to  whom  it  is  best  suited 
are  the  plethoric  and  sanguine.     It  is  used  with  benefit  as 


DRINKS.  28l 

a  common  drink  at  the  commencement  of  fevers,  and  in- 
flammatory complaints.  Persons  of  gouty  and  rheumatic 
natures  find  weak  tea  one  of  the  least  objectionable  of  all 
drinks.  Some  cases  of  severe  nervous  headache  may  be 
relieved  by  a  cup  of  strong  green  tea. 

Coffee. 

The  coffee  plant  was  originally  a  native  of  Arabia  and 
Abyssinia,  but  has  been  naturalized  over  a  large  part  of 
the  tropics.  It  is  supposed  to  have  been  introduced  into' 
the  new  world  by  the  French  in  17 17,  who  first  planted  it 
in  the  island  of  Martinique.  On  examining  the  present 
state  of  coffee  production  throughout  the  world,  we  find^ 
it  has  undergone  great  revolutions  within  the  past  thirty 
years. 

Thus  Brazil,  which  at  the  beginning  of  the  century  was 
hardly  known  in  the  coffee  market,  now  furnishes  nearly 
as  much  as  all  the  rest  of  the  world  beside. 

Java  ranks  next  to  Brazil  among  coffee  producing  coun- 
tries. According  to  Agassiz,  "  more  than  half  the  coffee- 
produced  by  the  world  is  of  Brazilian  growth.  And  yet 
the  coffee  of  Brazil  has  little  reputation  simply  because  a. 
great  deal  of  the  best  produce  of  Brazilian  plantations  is 
sold  under  the  name  of  Mocha  or  Java,  as  coffee  of  Mar- 
tinique or  Bourbon.  A  great  part  of  the  coffee  which  is 
bought  under  those  names,  cfr  under  that  of  Java  coffee, 
is  Brazilian,  while  the  so  called  Mocha  coffee  is  often 
nothing  but  the  small  round  beans  of  the  Brazilian  plant, 
found  at  the  summit  of  the  branches,  and  very  carefully 
selected."  The  plant  requires  a  deep,  good  soil,  with 
plenty  of  moisture,  and  a  temperature  not  lower  than  65 °, 
and  is  usually  grown  on  a  hillside  very  much  after  the 
manner  of  the  tea  plant. 

The  plant  is  very  prolific  for  it  remains  in  flower  during, 
eight  months  of  the  year,  and  produces  a  succession  of 
crops  of  fruit,  so  that  there  are  usually  three  harvests  an- 
ually,  but  at  the  same  time  the  fruit  is  in  all  stages  of  de- 
velopment, and  the  picking  of  it  requires  great  care. 

36 


282  DRINKS. 

When  left  to  a  free  growth  of  nature,  the  tree  attains  a 
iiight  of  fifteen  to  twenty  feet,  but  when  cultivated,  it  is 
pruned  so  as  to  remain  about  six  feet,  by  which  process  it 
throws  out  a  large  quantity  of  branches  at  its  lower  part, 
and  produces  more  fruit.  Its  leaves  are  opposite,  ever- 
-green,  and  not  unlike  those  of  the  bay  tree.  Its  blossoms 
are  white,  resembling  the  flower  of  the  jasmine.  The 
fruit  is  called  a  bean,  or  berry,  but  the  former  is  the  more 
■correct  expression.  The  beans  are  in  pairs,  which  are 
placed  face  to  face  in  a  hard,  leathery  skin,  surrounded 
by  a  fleshy  covering,  somewhat  resembling  the  cherry. 
After  the  thick  pulp  has  been  removed,  the  seeds  are  left 
in  a  cistern  till  fermentation  sets  in,  the  mucilage  is  then 
washed  off,  and  the  coffee  is  in  a  fit  state  to  be  taken  to 
the  drying  ground. 

Much  of  the  superior  quality  of  the  coffee  from  Mo- 
cha is  attributable  to  the  slower  method  of  drying,  which 
is  done  by  allowing  the  berries  to  remain  in  the  sun;  but 
in  the  larger  plantations  of  Brazil,  it  is  necessary  to  resort 
to  quicker  means  of  freeing  the  beans  from  their  cover- 
ings, which  is  performed  by  machinery. 

The  object  of  roasting  is  not  only  to  make  it  more  easy 
to  crush  or  grind  but  also  to  create  or  develop  an  aromatic 
volatile  oil,  and  care  must  be  taken  in  the  roasting  that 
the  good  effects  of  the  latter  may  not  be  destroyed  by 
burning  the  substance  of  the  bean.  The  natural  color  of 
the  bean  is  a  dull,  pale  green,  but  in  roasting,  it  acquires 
three  colors  according  to  the  degree,  viz:  yellowish-brown, 
chestnut-brown  and  black.  The  proper  degree  of  roast- 
ing is  that  of  chestnut-brown,  and  when  the  color  ap- 
proaches black,  it  gives  a  burnt,  dry  flavor  to  the  infusion. 

The  modes  of  preparing  the  beverage  are  almost  infinite, 
but  all  should  combine  two  principles,  namely,  to  extract 
the  greatest  amount  of  aroma  and  body,  and  to  render 
the  fluid  quite  clear  and  separate  from  the  grounds. 

Ground  coffee  is  very  extensively  adulterated.  Various 
substances  are  employed  for  this  purpose,  as  roasted  peas, 
beans  and  corn,  and  dried  and  roasted  roots,  such  as  tur- 
snips,  carrots,  potatoes,  etc.     But  the  most  common  adul- 


DRINKS.  283 

terant  is  chiccory,  a  plant  of  the  dandelion  tribe,  which 
has  a  large,  white,  parsnip-like  root  abounding  in  a  bitter 
juice. 

Cheats  in  coffee  may  be  quite  easily  detected  by  pour- 
ing cold  water  upon  the  coffee,  if  pure,  the  liquid  acquires 
color  very  slowly,  and  does  not  become  very  deep  after 
remaining  in  the  water  for  a  considerable  time.  If  chic- 
cory root  is  used,  it  quickly  becomes  a  deep  brown,  and 
in  a  short  time  becomes  very  dark;  with  boiling  water  the 
change  is  more  quickly  seen.  The  mixture  of  burnt  and 
ground  peas  and  beans  is  not  so  quickly  seen,  and  the 
most  certain  method  is  by  examining  the  coffee  through  a 
microscope. 

Coffee  acts  upon  the  brain  as  a  stimulant,  inciting  it  to 
increased  activity,  and  producing  sleeplessness;  hence  it 
is  of  great  value  as  an  antidote  to  narcotic  poisons.  Cof- 
fee, unlike  tea,  does  not  increase  the  vaporising  action  of 
the  skin,  but  decreases  it,  and  therefore  dries  the  skin.  It 
increases  the  action  of  the  heart,  and  the  fullness  of  the 
pulse,  and  excites  the  mucous  membranes.  It  is  more  fit- 
ted than  tea  for  the  poor  and  feeble.  It  is  also  more  fit- 
ted for  breakfast,  inasmuch  as  the  skin  is  active,  and  the 
heart's  action  feeble;  whilst  in  good  health  and  with  suf- 
ficient food,  it  is  not  needful  after  dinner;  but  if  drank 
should  be  taken  soon  after  the  meal.  There  probably  is 
not  the  same  degree  of  reaction  after  taking  strong  coffee 
as  follows  strong  tea,  and  none  of  these  effects  may  be 
marked,  if  the  infusion  be  very  weak. 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate. 

These  are  closely  allied  to  tea  and  coffee,  as  respiratory 
excitants,  and  are  valuable  as  food,  as  they  possess  a  large 
amount  of  fat,  which  is  its  chief  nutritive  element,  as  well 
as  other  food  materials. 

Chocolate  is  produced  from  the  seeds  of  the  cocoa 
palm.  The  seeds  are  inclosed  in  a  fruit  somewhat  re- 
sembling the  cucumber  in  size.  They  are  about  the  size 
of  an  almond,  and  when  extracted  are  reduced  to  a  pow- 


284  DRINKS. 

der,  after  which  they  are  mixed  with  sugar  and  rolled  in- 
to a  very  thick  paste,  which  takes  the  name  chocolate. 

Cocoa  nibs  are  the  nuts  roughly  broken,  and  may  be 
boiled  in  that  state,  but  it  is  necessary  to  boil  them  for 
several  hours  to  extract  the  strength  from  them. 

Coffee.     (To  Make.) 

Delmonico  uses  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  coffee  to  a 
gallon  of  water,  pouring  the  hot  water  on  the  coffee  which 
is  placed  on  a  strainer.  The  coffee  is  never  boiled.  An- 
other method,  better  adapted  for  family  use,  is  to  allow 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  ground  coffee  for  every  per- 
son, and  if  wished  quite  strong,  two  extra  spoonfuls  for 
the  pot.  Mix  with  the  ground  coffee  a  part  or  whole  of 
an  egg,  according  to  the  amount  made.  Pour  over  half 
as  much  water  as  you  need.  Let  the  coffee  froth  up,  then 
stir  down  the  grounds  and  let  it  boil  three  minutes;  then 
set  it  where  it  will  keep  hot — not  boil — for  fifteen  or  twen- 
ty minutes  longer.  Those  who  use  the  "  National  Coffee 
Pot"  need  to  keep  it  over  the  fire  a  longer  time,  and  will 
have  most  delicately  flavored  coffee.  A  mixture  of  three- 
fourths  Java  and  one-fourth  Mocha  is  a  most  excellent 
mixture.     Keep  the  coffee  closely  covered  when  making. 

Tea.     (To  Make.) 

Allow  one  teaspoonful  of  tea  to  each  cup.  Have  the 
water  in  the  teakettle  boiling  when  poured  on  the  tea. 
Cover  the  teapot  closely,  and  let  it  set  where  it  will  keep 
hot  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  more  boiling  water. 
Keep  the  teapot  sweet  and  clean. 

Chocolate.     (To  Make!) 

6  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate  to  each  pint  of  water, 
with  the  same  quantity  of  milk  as  water.  Sweeten  to 
taste.  Rub  the  chocolate  smooth  in  cold  water.  Pour 
on  the  water  boiling  hot.  Boil  twenty  minutes  and  then 
add  the  milk  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer.  The  sugar  can 
be  added  to  the  chocolate  on  the  fire  or  in  the  cuds. 


DRINKS.  285 

Cocoa  Nibs  or  Shells. 

Wet  the  shells  in  a  little  cold  water.  Use  one  cupful 
of  shells  for  one  quart  of  water,  which  must  be  boiling. 
Cook  one  hour  or  more  and  then  add  a  quart  of  milk. 
Let  it  heat  to  nearly  boiling,  and  then  take  from  the  fire. 

Hop  Beer. 

One  handful  of  hops,  boil  one  hour,  strain,  and  add  one 
pint  of  molasses,  and  enough  water  to  make  two  gallons. 
When  milk-warm,  add  one  cup  or  cake  of  yeast;  let  it 
stand  over  night;  skim,  and  pour  it  off  from  the  yeast 
carefully;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  wintergreen,  or  any 
other  flavoring,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Spruce  and  Boneset  Beer. 

Boil  a  small  handful  each  of  hops  and  boneset  for  an 
hour  or  two,  in  a  pailful  of  water;  strain  it,  and  dilute  it 
with  cold  water  until  it  is  of  the  right  strength.  Add  a 
small  tablespoonful  of  essence  of  spruce,  sweeten,  fer- 
ment and  bottle  it,  like  the  spring  beer. 

The  essences  of  hops,  checkerberry,  ginger  and  spruce, 
put  into  warm  water  in  suitable  proportions,  then  sweet- 
ened, fermented  and  bottled,  make  good  beer. 

Jamaica  Ginger  Beer. 

1 J^  ounces  of  Jamaica  ginger  extract. 
1  ounce  cream  tartar. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

4  quarts  of  boiling  water. 

2  lemons  sliced  thin. 

Stir  until  the  sugar  is  melted.  Let  it  cool  to  a  blood 
heat,  then  add  two  gills  of  good  yeast,  and  let  it  work  for 
twenty-four  hours,  then  bottle.  It  improves  by  keeping 
several  weeks,  unless  the  weather  is  hot. 


286  DRINKS. 


Spring  Beer. 

Take  a  handful  of  checkerberry  (wintergreen),  a  few- 
sassafras  roots  cut  up,  half  a  handful  of  pine-buds,  while 
they  are  small  and  gummy,  and  a  small  handful  of  hops. 
Put  all  these  into  a  pail  of  water  over  night,  and  in  the 
morning  boil  them  two  or  three  hours;  fill  up  the  kettle- 
when  it  boils  away.  Strain  it  into  a  jar  or  firkin  that  will, 
hold  a  half  pailful  more  of  water.  Stir  in  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  molasses,  then  add  the  half  pailful  of  water.  If 
not  sweet  enough  add  more  molasses.  It  loses  the  sweet- 
ness a  little  in  the  process  of  fermentation,  and  should  be 
made  rather  too  sweet  at  first.  Add  two  or  three  gills  of 
good  yeast,  set  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  let  it  remain  un- 
disturbed till  it  is  fermented.  When  the  top  is  covered 
with  a  thick  dark  foam,  take  it  off;  pour  off  the  beer  into- 
another  vessel,  so  gently  as  not  to  disturb  the  sediment; 
then  bottle  it,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  be  ready 
for  use  in  two  days.  The  sediment  should  be  put  into  a 
bottle  by  itself,  loosely  corked,  and  kept  to  ferment  the 
next  brewing. 

Lemonade. 

3  lemons  to  a  quart  of  water. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Pare  the  yellow  peel  from  the  lemons,  and  unless  you 
intend  to  use  the  drink  immediately,  leave  it  out.  It  gives 
a  bitter  taste  to  the  sugar  if  left  long  in  it.  Slice  and 
squeeze  the  lemons  upon  the  sugar,  add  a  very  little  water, 
and  let  them  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Then  fill  up  with 
water;  ice  well. 

Orangeade 

Is  made  in   the  same  manner,   substituting  oranges  for 
lemons. 

Egg  Nogg. 

6  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  and  very 
stiff. 


DRINKS.  2&f 

i  quart  rich  milk. 

y2  cup  of  sugar. 

y2  pint  of  best  brandy. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Stir  the  yolks  into  the  milk  with  the  sugar,  which  should 
first  be  beaten  with  the  yolks.  Next  comes  the  brandy. 
Lastly  whip  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs. 

Blackberry  Wine. 

Measure  your  berries  and  bruise  them;  to  every  gallon 
add  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Let  the  mixture  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  stirring  occasionally;  then  strain  into< 
a  cask.  To  each  gallon  add  two  pounds  of  sugar,  stir 
until  well  dissolved.  Cork  tightly  and  let  it  stand  in  your 
cellar  one  year  before  you  open  it  for  use. 

Black  Currant  Wine. 

Pick  the  currants,  measure  them,  and  to  every  four 
quarts,  put  one  quart  water;  then  break  the  currants,  add 
the  water,  stir  them  up,  let  them  stand  three  days;  then 
squeeze  out  the  juice,  and  to  each  quait  add  one  pound 
of  sugar,  put  in  a  vessel  and  let  it  work.  Skim  it  fre- 
quently, and  when  it  is  clear,  cork  it  up,  and  in  the  course- 
of  five  months  draw  off  and  bottle. 

Raisin  Wine. 

1  y2  pounds  of  white  sugar. 

2^/2  pounds  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

2  lemons,  all  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel. 
2  y2  gallons  boiling  water. 

Put  all  into  a  stone  jar,  and  stir  every  day  for  a  week. 
Strain,  then,  and  bottle  it. 

Cherry  Wine, 

1  gallon  of  bruised  cherries. 
1  gallon  of  rain  water. 
5  pounds  of  sugar. 


tSS  DRINKS. 

Let  the  cherries  and  water  stand  twenty-four  hours, 
■strain  and  add  the  sugar.  Let  it  stand  three  weeks,  strain 
again  and  bottle. 

Currant  Wine. 

Pick,  stem,  mash  and  strain  the  currants,  which  should 
'be  very  ripe. 

To  i  quart  of  juice  add 

$£  pound  white  sugar. 

%  Pmt  of  water.  . 

Stir  all  together  long  and  well;  put  into  a  clean  cask, 
leaving  out  the  bung,  and  covering  the  hole  with  a  bit 
-of  lace  or  mosquito  net.  Let  it  ferment  about  four  weeks, 
rack  off  when  it  is  quite  still,  and  bottle. 

Rhine  Wine. 

Take  one  gallon  of  the  Rhine  variety  of  black  grapes; 
or  if  you  cannot  get  them,  use  the  real  Delaware  grapes; 
and  add  one  gallon  of  water,  after  bruising  the  grapes. 
Let  it  stand  for  eight  days  and  then  draw  it  off;  now  add 
to  each  gallon  of  wine  three  pounds  of  sugar,  stirring  it 
in.  Let  it  stand  ten  or  twelve  hours,  when  it  can  be 
bottled  or  barreled  for  use.  If  allowed  to  stand  for  a  suf- 
ficient length  of  time,  it  will  in  every  respect  prove  equal 
to  the  imported  wine. 

Elderberry  Wine. 

8  quarts  of  berries. 

4  quarts  of  boiling  water  poured  over  the  berries. 

Let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  stirring  now  and  then.  Strain 
well,  pressing  out  all  the  juice.     Add 

3  pounds  of  sugar  to  4  quarts  of  juice. 

1  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon. 

y2  ounce  of  powdered  cloves. 

Boil  five  minutes,  and  set  away  to  ferment  in  a  stone 
jar,  with  a  cloth  thrown  lightly  over  it.  When  it  has  done 
fermenting,  rack  it  off  carefully,  not  to  disturb  the  lees. 
Bottle  and  cork  it  well. 


DRINKS.  289 

Raspberry  Shrub.     No.  i. 

Cover  the  raspberries  with  best  vinegar,  and  lay  over 
night.  In  the  morning  mash  the  berries,  and  squeeze 
through  a  coarse  bag.  To  every  pint  of  the  juice,  add 
one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  twenty  minutes;  when  cool, 
bottle.  This  will  make  quite  a  thick  syrup,  which  must 
be  diluted  with  water  when  drank. 

Raspberry  Shrub.     No.  2 

Fill  a  jar  with  red  raspberries;  pour  inasmuch  vinegar 
as  it  will  hold.  Let  it  stand  ten  days,  then  strain  it  through 
a  sieve.  Don't  press  the  berries,  but  let  the  juice  run 
through.  To  every  pint  add  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 
Boil  it  like  other  syrup;  skim,  and  bottle  when  cold. 

Blackberry  Shrub 

Is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  raspberry,  allowing  one 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  the  juice. 

Blackberry  Syrup. 

1  pint  of  juice. 

1  pound  of  white  sugar. 

y2  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon. 
1^  ounce  of  mace. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cloves. 

1  glass  of  best  French  brandy  to  every  pint  of  the  mix- 
ture. 

Procure  perfectly  ripe  high  blackberries,  as  they  have 
more  of  the  medicinal  quality  than  the  low  berries.  Put 
them  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  over  a  moderate  fire. 
Let  them  remain  until  they  break  in  pieces;  then  mash 
and  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Boil  all  together  (ex- 
cept the  brandy)  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  occasionally; 
then  strain  the  syrup  again,  and  add  the  brandy.  Put 
into  bottles,  cork  and  seal  them  tight,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
37 


29O  DRINKS. 

place.     This  syrup,  mixed  with  cold  water,  is  an  excellent 
remedy  for  bowel  complaint. 

•Strawberry  Sherbet. 

i  quart  of  strawberries. 

3  pints  of  water. 

Juice  of  i  lemon. 

i  tablespoonful  orange-flower  water. 

^  pound  white  sugar. 

Select  fresh  and  ripe  strawberries.  Crush  to  a  smooth 
paste;  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  (except  the  sugar), 
and  let  it  stand  three  hours.  Strain  over  the  sugar, 
squeezing  the  berries  through  a  cloth  hard;  stir  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  again  and  set  on  ice  for  two 
hours  or  more  before  you  use  it. 


HYGIENIC  EFFECT  OF  DRINKS. 

[For  Hygienic  Effects  of  Tea  and  Coffee,  see  pps.  280  and  283.] 

Alcoholic. 

All  alcoholic  drinks  are  the  result  of  the  decomposi- 
tion of  sugar.  Nature  will  only  assimilate  such  substances 
as  come  to  her  in  an  organized  state.  Alcohol  has  the 
same  elements  as  sugar — carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen 
— but  the  latter  being  organized  for  digestion,  is  agree- 
able to  the  taste,  and  is  readily  appropriated  as  heating 
food,  while  alcohol,  being  disorganized,  creates  rebellion 
and  is  expelled  as  an  intruder.  Alcoholic  stimulants 
may  be  beneficial,  however,  in  rare  cases,  to  give  strength 
till  natural  food  can  be  taken  and  digested,  but  if  con- 
tinued longer,  react,  and  produce  only  harm. 

Beer  and  Light  Wines 

are  less  injurious,  as  many  of  the  elements  have  not 
become  sufficiently  disorganized  so  but  that  much  nutri- 
ment in  the  form  of  sugary  and  starchy  matter  is  supplied 
to  the  system.  But  this  might  better  be  taken  in  any 
other  form  without  the  deleterious  element  always  enter- 
ing with  them — that  of  alcohol. 

Cocoa 

is  supplied  with  all  the  requisite  elements  of  food,  and 
to  those  who  like  its  flavor  it  is  a  very  agreeable  and 
useful  beverage,  having  all  the  advantages  of  tea  and 
coffee  without  their  deleterious  qualities.  Its  nutritive 
elements  are,  however,  too  concentrated  to  agree  with 
very  delicate  stomachs. 

It  contains  a  large  share  of  oily  matter  with  four  per 
cent,  of  phosphates  and  also  some  albumen. 


THE   SICK   ROOM. 

Milk  Porridge. 

i  tablespoonful  Indian  meal,  and 

i  tablespoonful  white  flour  wet  to  a  paste  with  cold 
water. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 

2  cups  milk. 

A  good  pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  the  paste  in  the  hot  water  twenty  minutes;  add  the 
milk  and  cook  ten  minutes  more,  stirring  often. 

Corn  Meal  Gruel. 

2  quarts  of  boiling  water. 

i  cup  of  Indian  meal,  and 

i  tablespoonful  flour,  wet  up  with  cold  water. 

Salt  to  taste,  and,  if  you  like,  sugar  and  nutmeg. 

Wet  the  flour  and  meal  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  stir  into 
the  water  while  it  is  boiling.  Boil  slowly  half  an  hour, 
stirring  up  well  from  the  bottom.  If  a  cathartic  is  desired 
omit  the  wheat  flour  altogether. 

Oat  meal  gruel  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Rice  Flour  Gruel. 

Make  this  exactly  like  Indian  meal  gruel,  using  less  of 
the  rice  flour  than  of  the  Indian  meal  for  the  same  quan- 
tity. 

Flour  Gruel. 

Tie  a  teacup  of  flour  in  a  strong  cloth,  and  boil  it  six 
hours;  when  it  is  done  it  will  be  a  hard  cake  of  flour;  dry 
it,  and  grate  a  large  teaspoonful,  mix  it  in  paste  with  cold 


THE    SICK    ROOM.  293 

water,  and  stir  it  ir.  boiled  milk;  let  the  gruel  boil  gently 
ten  minutes,  and  add  salt.  This  is  excellent  for  patients 
suffering  with  bowel  complaints. 

Barley  Gruel. 

Boil  pearl  barley  until  tender,  reduce  it  to  a  pulp,  pass 
it  through  a  sieve,  add  water  until  of  the  right  consistency, 
boil  fifteen  minutes  and  season  to  suit  the  taste. 

Rice  Jelly. 

y2  cup  whole  rice,  well  washed  and  soaked  two  hours 
in  a  little  warm  water;  then  added  with  the  water  to  that 
in  the  kettle. 

3  pints  cold  water. 

1  small  pinch  of  salt  put  into  the  water. 

Sweeten  to  taste  with  loaf  sugar. 

Simmer  the  rice  half  an  hour;  then  boil  until  it  is  a 
smooth  paste,  and  the  water  is  reduced  one  half.  Strain 
through  double  tarletan,  sweeten  and  give  to  the  child. 
This  is  an  admirable  preparation  for  an  infant  suffering 
with  weakness  of  the  bowels.  If  there  is  no  fever,  you 
may  put  one-third  part  milk,  boiled  with  the  rice. 

Arrowroot. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

1  cup  fresh  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  best  Bermuda  arrowroot,  wet  with  cold 
water. 

1  small  pinch  of  salt. 

2  even  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar  dissolved  in  the  milk. 
Stir  the  arrowroot  paste  into  the  salted  boiling  water; 

^stir  and  boil  five  minutes,  or  until  it  is  clear;  add  the 
sweetened  milk,  and  boil  ten  minutes  slowly,  still  stirring. 

Farina. 
1  cup  boiling  water. 
1  cup  fresh  milk. 

1  large  tablespoonful  Hecker's  Farina,  wet  with  cold 
water. 


294  THE  SICK  ROOM. 

2  teaspoonfuls  white  sugar. 

A  little  salt. 

Stir  the  farina  into  the  boiling  water  (slightly  salted)  in 
the  farina  kettle  (i.  e.  one  boiler  set  within  another,  the 
latter  rilled  with  hot  water).  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 
constantly  until  well  thickened.  Then  add  the  milk,  stir- 
ring it  in  gradually,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer.  You 
may  make  enough  in  the  morning  to  last  all  day;  warm- 
ing it  up  with  a  little  hot  milk  as  you  want  it.  Keep  in  a 
cold  place.     This  is  very  nice  for  children. 

Beef  Tea. 

Chop  a  pound  of  lean  beef  as  fine  as  sausage  meat; 
pour  on  it  a  pint  of  cold  water,  let  it  soak  for  half  an 
hour,  then  put  it  over  a  slow  fire;  when  it  has  boiled  five 
minutes,  pour  it  off  and  season  with  salt. 

Mutton  Broth. 

t  pound  lean  mutton  or  lamb,  cut  small. 

i  quart  cold  water. 

i  tablespoonful  rice,  or  barley,  soaked  in  a  very  little 
warm  water. 

4  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

Salt  and  pepper,  with  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Boil  the  meat,  unsalted,  in  the  water,  keeping  it  closely 
covered  until  it  falls  to  pieces.  Strain  it  out,  add  the 
soaked  barley  or  rice,  simmer  half  an  hour,  stirring  often; 
stir  in  the  seasoning  and  the  milk,  and  simmer  five  min- 
utes after  it  heats  up  well,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn. 
Serve  hot. 

Chicken  Broth 

Is  excellent  made  in  the  same  manner  as  mutton,  cracking 
the  bones  well  before  you  put  in  the  fowl. 

Chicken  Jelly. 

Half  a  raw  chicken  pounded  with  a  mallet,  bones  and 
meat  together. 


THE  SICK  ROOM.  2<)$ 

Plenty  of  cold  water  to  cover  it  well — about  a  quart. 

Heat  slowly  in  a  covered  vessel,  $^d  let  it  simmer  until 
the  meat  is  in  white  rags,  and  the  li^id  reduced  one-half. 
Strain  and  press,  first  through  a  colander,  then  through  a 
coarse  cloth.  Salt  to  taste,  and  pepper,  if  you  think  best; 
return  to  the  fire,  and  simmer  five  minutes  longer.  Skim 
when  cool.  Give  to  the  patient  cold,  just  from  the  ice. 
You  can  make  into  sandwiches  by  putting  the  jelly  between 
thin  slices  of  bread  spread  lightly  with  butter. 

Toast  Water. 

Slices  of  toast,  nicely  browned,  without  a  symptom  of 
burning. 

Enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them. 

Cover  cfosely,  and  let  them  steep  until  cold.  Strain  the 
water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  a  piece  of  ice  in  each 
glassful.  If  the  physician  thinks  it  safe,  add  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

Jelly  Water. 

i  large  teaspoonful  currant  or  cranberry  jelly. 

i  goblet  ice  water. 

Beat  up  well,  for  a  fever  patient.  Wild  cherry  or  black- 
berry jelly  is  excellent,  prepared  in  like  manner,  for  those 
suffering  with  summer  complaint. 

Apple  Water. 

i  large  juicy  pippin,  the  most  finely  flavored  you  can 

3  cups  cold  water,  i  quart,  if  the  apple  is  very  large. 

Pare  and  quarter  the  apple,  but  do  not  core  it.  Put  it 
on  the  fire  in  a  tin  or  porcelain  saucepan  with  the  water, 
and  boil,  closely  covered,  until  the  apple  stews  to  pieces. 
Strain  the  liquor  at  once,  pressing  the  apple  hard  in  the 
cloth.  Strain  this  again  through  a  finer  bag,  and  set 
away  to  cool.  Sweeten  with  white  sugar,  and  ice  for  drink- 
ing.    It  is  a  refreshing  and  palatable  drink. 


296  THE  SICK  ROOM. 

Milk  Punch. 

1  tumbler  milk,  well  sweetened. 

2  tablespoonfuls  best  brandy,  well  stirred  in. 
Patients  in  a  very  low  condition  have  been  kept  alive 

for  days  at  a  time  by  this  drink,  until  nature  could  rally 
her  forces.     Give  cold  with  ice. 


ADDITIONAL    RECIPES.  297 


298 


ADDITIONAL     RECIPES. 


ADDITIONAL     RECIPES.  299 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

Cure  for  Burns  and  Scalds. 

The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  remove  the  clothes,  if 
the  body  is  scalded.  Then  apply  a  thick  layer  of  flour, 
and  when  it  falls  off  lay  on  more.  The  object  is  to  shield 
the  wound  from  the  air.  Cotton  wool  is  another  good  ap- 
plication. Lay  a  thick  fold  of  it  on,  and  then  wet  with 
good  sweet  oil;  let  the  cotton  remain  until  a  new  skin  is 
formed.  A  soft  bandage  should  be  put  outside  the  cot- 
ton. If  the  cotton  is  removed  for  the  sake  of  putting  on 
fresh,  there  will  be  a  scar;  if  suffered  to  remain  as  direct- 
ed, there  will  be  no  scar. 

To  Clean  Kid  Gloves. 

i  drachm  carbonate  of  ammonia. 

i  drachm  chloroform. 

i  drachm  sulphuric  ether. 

i  pint  deodorized  benzine. 

Wash  the  glove  in  a  little  of  the  mixture,  as  you  would 
a  piece  of  cotton;  then  slip  it  on  your  hand  while  wet, 
and  wipe  with  a  clean,  soft  cloth,  until  thoroughly  dry. 
Let  them  hang  in  the  air  awhile  to  remove  the  unpleasant 
odor  of  the  benzine.  They  will  be  soft  and  pliable  and 
look  nearly  as  well  as  new. 

Prepared  Glycerine  for  the  Hands. 

Equal  parts  of  glycerine,  camphor  and  ammonia. 

To  Prepare  Earth  for  House  Plants. 

,  Put  together  equal  parts  of  the  three  following  things, 
soil  from  the  sides  of  a  barnyard,  well-rotted  manure,  and 


MISCELLANEOUS.  301 

leaf  mould  from  the  woods,  or  earth  from  the  inside  of 
an  old  tree  or  stump.  Add  a  small  quantity  of  sand. 
For  cactuses  put  as  much  sand  as  of  the  other  materials 
and  a  little  fine  charcoal. 

To  Wash  Silk. 

1  tablespoonful  honey. 

1  tablespoonful  soft  soap. 

2  cups  of  cold  water. 

1  wineglass  of  alcohol. 

Mix  and  shake  up  well;  lay  a  breadth  of  the  silk  at  a 
time  on  a  table,  and  sponge  both  sides  with  this,  rubbing 
it  well  in;  shake  it  well  up  and  down  in  a  tub  of  cold  wa- 
ter; flap  it  as  dry  as  you  can,  but  do  not  wring  it.  Hang 
it  by  the  edges,  not  the  middle,  until  fit  to  iron.  While 
it  is  very  damp,  iron  on  the  wrong  side.  Dark  silks  may 
be  treated  in  this  way. 

To  Clean  Black  Silk. 

Into  one  quart  of  water  put  a  black  kid  glove  and  boil 
down  to  a  pint;  sponge  the  silk  with  this,  and  iron  on  the 
wrong  side  while  damp. 

To  Clean  Alpaca. 

Sponge  the  alpaca  with  spirits  of  ammonia  and  water, 
and  iron  on  the  wrong  side  while  damp. 

To  Renew  Wrinkled  Crape. 

Stretch  over  a  basin  of  boiling  water,  holding  it  smooth, 
but  not  tight,  over  the  top,  and  shifting  as  the  steam  fair- 
ly penetrates  it.  Fold,  while  damp,  in  the  original  creases, 
and  lay  under  a  heavy  book  or  board  to  dry.  It  will  look 
nearly  as  well  as  new. 

To  Restore  the  Pile  of  Velvet. 

Wet  on  the  wrong  side;  let  some  one  hold  a  hot  iron 
bottom  upward,  and  pass  the  wet  side  of  the  velvet  slowly 


302  MISCELLANEOUS. 

over  the  flat  surface.     When  the  steam  rises  thickly  through 
to  the  right  side,  it  will  raise  the  pile  with  it. 

To  Curl  Tumbled  Feathers. 

Hold  over  the  top  of  a  hot  stove,  but  not  near  enough 
to  burn;  withdraw,  shake  them  out,  and  hold  them  over 
it  again  until  curled. 

To  Clean  Straw  Matting. 

Wash  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  clean  salt  and  water;  then 
wipe  dry  at  once.     This  prevents  it  from  turning  yellow. 

To  Remove  Paint  from  Windows. 

Rub  the  paint  spots  with  spirits  of  ammonia,  or  with 
a  copper  cent. 

To  Remove  Fruit  Stains. 

Hold  the  stained  article,  before  it  has  been  wet,  tightly 
over  a  bucket  or  tub,  and  pour  boiling  water  upon  the 
spots  until  they  disappear.  Do  not  allow  the  fabric  to 
touch  the  water  below. 

To  Remove  Iron  Rust  and  Ink  Stains. 

Oxalic  acid  is  infallible  in  removing  iron  rust  and  ink 
stains.  Use  in  the  proportion  of  one  ounce  to  a  quart  of 
soft  water.  The  article  must  be  spread  with  this  mixture, 
over  the  steam  of  hot  water,  wetting  occasionally.  It  will 
remove  indelible  ink  and  other  stains.  It  is  very  poison- 
ous, and  must  be  kept  in  a  bottle  corked.  Wash  the  arti- 
cle afterward,  or  the  liquor  will  injure  it.  This  will  ap- 
ply only  to  white  goods,  as  the  acid  will  change  the  color 
of  colored  goods. 

To  Remove  Iron  Mould. 

If  the  mould  is  fresh  and  not  very  dark,  tie  up  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  tartar  in  the  moulded  place,  and  put 
it  into  cold  water  without  soap,  and  boil  it  half  <*u  hour. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  303 

To  Destroy  Rats  and  Mice. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  rye  meal  and  unslacked  lime, 
mix  them  without  adding  any  water.  Put  small  quantities 
in  places  infested  by  rats;  they  will  devour  it,  be  thirsty, 
and  the  water  they  drink  slackens  the  lime  and  destroys 
them. 

To  Remove  Grease. 

For  grease  spots  of  any  kind,  benzine  or  gasoline  are 
much  used,  applied  with  a  small  sponge  or  linen  rag.  They 
do  not  injure  any  colors,  but  they  have  to  be  used  with  a 
good  deal  of  perseverance,  or  they  will  spread  the  spot 
without  removing  it.  Tailors  use  equal  parts  of  alcohol 
and  ammonia  to  clean  coats  and  pants,  and  nothing  is 
better.  For  very  nice  articles,  chloroform  is  better  than 
anything  else;  it  will  remove  all  kinds  of  grease,  paint  or 
varnish.  Magnesia  or  powdered  French  chalk  rubbed  on 
the  wrong  side,  will  often  remove  grease  spots. 

To  Remove  Tar. 

Rub  well  with  clean  lard,  afterwards  wash  with  soap 
and  warm  water.     Apply  this  to  either  hands  or  clothing. 

Camphor  Ice. 

1  ounce  of  lard,  or  sweet  oil. 
1  ounce  of  spermaceti. 
1  ounce  of  camphor. 
1  ounce  of  almond  oil. 
%  cake  of  white  wax. 
Melt  and  turn  into  moulds. 

To  Remove  Discoloration  from  Bruises. 

Apply  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  very  hot  water,  and  renew 
frequently  until  the  pain  ceases.     Or  apply  raw  beefsteak. 

For  Sudden  Hoarseness. 

Roast  a  lemon  in  the  oven,  turning  now  and  then,  that 
all  sides  may  be  equally  cooked.     It  should  not  crack  or 


304  MISCELLANEOUS. 

burst,  but  be  soft  all  through.  Just  before  going  to  bed 
take  the  lemon  (which  should  be  very  hot),  cut  a  piece 
from  the  top,  and  fill  it  with  as  much  white  sugar  as  it 
will  hold.  Eat  all  the  sugar,  filling  the  lemon  with  more, 
as  you  find  it  becoming  acid.  This  simple  remedy  induces 
gentle  perspiration,  besides  acting  favorably  upon  the 
clogged  membranes  of  the  throat. 

Perspiration. 

The  unpleasant  odor  produced  by  perspiration  may  be 
removed  by  putting  a  spoonful  of  spirits  of  ammonia  in  a 
basin  of  water  and  bathing  in  this.  This  is  especially 
good  for  bathing  the  feet. 

White  Soap  for  Toilet  Use. 

6  pounds  of  washing  soda. 

6  pounds  of  lard  or  fat. 

3  pounds  unslacked  lime. 

i  teacupful  of  salt. 

5  gallons  of  soft  water. 

Put  the  soda  and  lime  in  a  tub  and  pour  over  them  the 
water  boiling  hot.  Stir  to  dissolve.  Let  it  stand  until 
clear  and  all  dissolved;  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquid. 
Add  the  fat  and  salt,  and  boil  four  hours,  then  pour  into 
pans  to  cool.  Should  it  be  inclined  to  curdle  or  separate, 
if  the  lime  be  too  strong,  pour  in  water  and  boil  over 
again. 

To  Clean  Flat-Irons. 

Tie  up  a  piece  of  yellow  beeswax  in  a  rag,  and  when 
the  iron  is  almost,  but  not  quite  hot  enough  to  use,  rub  it 
quickly  with  the  wax,  and  then  with  a  coarse  cloth. 

Stove  Polish. 

Stove  lustre,  when  mixed  with  turpentine  and  applied 
in  the  usual  manner,  is  blacker,  more  glossy,  and  more 
durable  than  when  mixed    vith  any  other  liquid.     The 


MISCELLANEOUS.  305 

turpentine  prevents  rust,  and  when  put  on   an  old,  rusty 
stove  will  make  it  look  as  well  as  new. 

Cleaning  Pots,  Kettles  and  Tins. 

Boil  a  double  handful  of  hay  or  grass  in  a  new  iron 
pot,  before  attempting  to  cook  with  it;  scrub  with  soap 
and  sand,  then  set  on  full  of  clear  water  and  let  it  boil 
half  an  hour.  After  this  it  can  be  used  with  safety.  As 
soon  as  a  pot  or  frying-pan  is  emptied  of  that  which  has 
been  cooked  in  it,  fill  with  hot  or  cold  water,  and  set  back 
upon  the  fire  to  scald  thoroughly.  New  tins  should  stand 
near  the  fire,  with  boiling  water  in  them,  in  which  has 
been  dissolved  a  spoonful  of  soda,  for  an  hour;  then  be 
scoured  with  soft  soap,  afterwards  rinsed  with  hot  water. 
Use  sifted  wood  ashes  or  whiting  for  cleaning  them. 
Copper  utensils  should  be  cleaned  with  brick-dust  and 
flannel. 

Starch. 

To  Make  the  Starch.  Dissolve  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  best  starch  in  cold  water;  stir  it  very  fast  into  a  quart 
of  boiling  water;  boil  a  few  minutes.  Five  minutes  before 
it  is  done  stir  in  a  piece  of  spermaceti  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, and  stir  till  it  is  well  mixed. 

Starching.  As  soon  as  you  can  bear  your  hands  in  the 
starch  dip  the  linen  in,  and  be  careful  to  rub  the  starch 
into  every  part,  or  you  will  have  blisters  in  the  bosom. 
Fold  the  shirts  so  as  to  bring  the  two  bosoms  together, 
and  fold  the  collars  in  a  dry  towel.  Let  them  lie  over 
night. 

A  bosom  board  is  an  indispensable  article,  and  is  made 
by  taking  a  board  eight  inches  by  eighteen,  and  covering 
one  side  with  three  thicknesses  of  flannel  fastened  to  the 
edge  with  small  tacks;  then  cover  the  flannel  with  three 
thicknesses  of  cotton  cloth,  sewed  on  tight  and  perfectly 
smooth. 

Iron  the  shirt  and  bosom  on  the  board;  when  the  bosom 
is  dry,  brush  it  over  with  water  till  slightly  damp,  and  then 
39 


306  MISCELLANEOUS. 

with  a  polishing  iron  (which  can  be  got  at  any  hardware 
store)  rub  the  surface  of  the  linen  hard  until  you  have  a 
fine  polish.  If  the  irons  are  rough,  rub  them  over  with 
salt  or  smear  the  face  slightly  with  beeswax,  which  must 
be  cleaned  off  before  using.  The  pan  used  for  starch 
should  not  be  used  for  any  thing  else. 

Cold  Starch. 

Dissolve  three  tablespoonfuls  of  starch  in  a  pint  of 
cold  water.  Dip  the  linen  in  and  thoroughly  wet  every 
part;  then  rinse  the  articles  starched,  in  clear  water  to 
take  off  the  starch  which  will  adhere  to  the  linen.  Do 
not  be  afraid  to  rinse  the  linen  well,  for  it  will  be  stiff 
enough  when  ironed.  They  may  be  ironed  in  ten  or  fif- 
teen minutes,  but  should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the 
cloths  longer,  as  they  will  not  iron  well.  Lay  a  thin  cloth 
upon  them  when  you  pass  the  iron  over  the  first  time. 
The  irons  should  be  quite  hot.  This  mode  of  starching 
is  preferred  by  many  persons  to  the  use  of  boiled  starch. 
The  starch  which  is  not  taken  up  by  the  linen,  will  settle 
in  the  water  and  can  be  used  again. 

To  Clean  Hair  Brushes. 

Put  a  few  drops  spirits  of  ammonia  in  soft  water  and 
dip  the  bristles  in,  taking  care  not  to  wet  the  handles. 
Soda  can  be  used  instead  of  ammonia.  Combs  can  be 
cleaned  in  this  mixture. 

Patent  Soap. 

5  pounds  hard  soap. 

i  quart  of  ley. 

%  ounce  of  pearlash. 

Place  on  the  fire  and  stir  well  until  the  soap  is  dissolved; 
add 

y2  pint  spirits  of  turpentine. 

i  gill  hartshorn. 

Stir  well;  it  is  then  fit  for  use.  The  finest  muslin  may 
be  put  to  soak  in  this  suds,  and  if  left  for  a  time  will  be- 


MISCELLANEOUS.  307 

come  very  white.  A  small  portion  of  this  soap  put  in  a 
little  hot  water,  and  a  flannel  cloth,  will  save  labor  and  a 
brush  in  cleaning  paint. 

Soap  Made  with  Potash. 

Allow  sixteen  pounds  each  of  grease  and  potash  for  a 
barrel  of  soap.  The  grease  should  be  such  as  has  been 
well  taken  care  of,  viz:  tried  before  it  became  wormy 
and  mouldy.  The  color  of  the  potash  should  be  about 
that  of  pumice  stone.  That  which  is  red  makes  dark 
soap  unfit  for  washing  clothes.  Cut  the  grease  into  pieces 
of  two  or  three  ounces,  put  it  into  a  tight  barrel  with  the 
potash,  then  pour  in  two  pailfuls  of  rain  water.  The  soap 
will  make  sooner  if  the  water  is  hot,  but  will  be  as  good 
made  of  cold.  Add  a  pailful  of  soft  water  every  day  un- 
til the  barrel  is  half  full,  and  stir  well  each  day.  When 
the  barrel  is  half  full  add  no  more  water  for  a  week,  but 
stir  it  daily.  After  that  add  a  pailful  a  day  until  the  bar- 
rel is  full.  It  is  better  to  keep  soap  three  or  four  months 
before  using  it,  it  spends  more  economically,  and  is  less 
sharp  to  the  hands.  When  half  of  it  has  been  used,  put 
two  pails  of  soft  water  to  the  rest,  and  stir  up  well  from 
the  bottom;  the  lower  half  is  always  the  strongest.  It  is 
good  economy  to  make  soap,  and  it  is  so  little  work  to 
make  it  with  potash,  and  the  result  is  so  sure,  that  no  one 
need  be  deterred  from  it  by  the  fear  of  trouble  or  ill  suc- 
cess. 

Tooth  Powder.    No.  i. 

2  ounces  of  Peruvian  bark. 

2  ounces  of  myrrh. 

1  ounce  of  chalk. 

1  ounce  Armenian  bole. 

1  ounce  orris  root. 

Tooth  Powder.    No.  2. 

Equal  parts  of  orris  root,  pulverized  pumice  stone  and 
prepared  chalk.     Use  once  a  week. 


308  miscellaneous. 

Wash  for  the  Teeth. 

One  ounce  of  myrrh,  powdered  and  dissolved  in  one 
pint  of  spirits  of  wine.  A  little  of  this  dropped  on  the 
tooth  brush  is  excellent  for  the  teeth  and  gums. 

To  Keep  Suet. 

Pull  off  the  skin  or  membrane  from  fresh  suet,  sprinkle 
salt  upon  it,  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth  or  bag,  and  hang  it  in  a 
cool  dry  place.     It  will  keep  sweet  the  year  round. 

To  Clear  Sugar. 

Dissolve  in  hot  water  a  little  gum  arabic  and  isinglass; 
pour  it  into  sugar  when  boiling  and  all  sediment  will  rise 
to  the  top  of  the  pan  to  be  skimmed  off. 

To  Cleanse  Lard  or  Butter. 

Rancid  lard  or  butter  may  be  purified  and  made  sweet 
for  cooking  purposes  by  trying  it  over  with  a  little  water 
added  and  a  few  sliced  raw  potatoes. 

Crackers. 

Crackers,  after  being  kept  for  some  time,  lose  their  ten- 
derness and  delicacy.  To  renew  these  qualities,  put  the 
crackers  into  a  broad  shallow  pan,  and  let  them  stand  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour.  Upon  taking 
them  out,  they  will  be  fresh  and  crisp. 

To  Clean  Furniture. 

An  old  cabinet  maker  says  the  best  preparation  for 
cleaning  picture  frames  and  restoring  furniture,  especially 
that  somewhat  marred  or  scratched,  is  a  mixture  of  three 
parts  linseed  oil  and  one  part  spirits  of  turpentine.  It 
not  only  covers  the  disfigured  surface,  but  restores  wood 
to  its  natural  color,  and  leaves  a  lustre  upon  its  surface. 
Put  on  with  a  woolen  cloth,  and  when  dry  rub  with 
woolen. 


miscellaneous.  309 

Papering  Whitewashed  Walls. 

To  make  paper  stick  to  whitewashed  walls,  make  a  siz- 
ing of  common  glue  and  water,  of  the  consistency  of  lin- 
seed oil,  and  apply  with  whitewash  or  other  brush  to  the 
walls,  taking  care  to  go  over  every  part,  and  especially  the 
top  and  bottom.  Apply  the  paper  as  soon  as  you  please, 
in  the  ordinary  way,  and  if  the  paste  is  properly  made  it 
will  remain  firm  for  years. 

Rules  for  Keeping  Goldfish. 

t.  Have  the  diameter  of  the  globe  at  least  five  times 
the  fish's  length. 

2.  Change  the  water  no  oftener  than  three  times  a 
week,  and  have  it  moderately  warm. 

3.  In  changing,  lift  the  fish  in  a  cup  or  linen  net;  never 
in  the  hand. 

4.  Feed  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  the  yolks  of  eggs 
boiled  hard  and  powdered. 

5.  Furnish  the  globe  with  water-plants,  to  give  refresh- 
ing shadow,  to  purify  the  water  and  afford  food. 

The  following  weeds  are  procurable  in  fresh  water  ponds: 
Water  Starwort,  Water  Milfoil,  Ditch  Moss,  Eel  Grass, 

Pennywort,   Hornweed,   Duckweed.      The   Duckweed  is 

especially  liked  for  its  seeds. 

To  Purify  a  Sink  or  Drain. 

Dissolve  a  pound  or  two  of  chloride  of  lime  in  plenty 
of  water,  and  pour  down;  or  use  carbolate  of  lime. 

The  Best  Deodorizer. 

Use  bromo-chloralum  in  the  proportion  of  one  table- 
spoonful  to  eight  of  soft  water;  dip  cloths  in  this  solution 
and  hang  in  the  rooms;  it  will  purify  sick-rooms  of  any 
foul  smells.  The  surface  of  anything  may  be  purified  by 
washing  well  and  then  rubbing  over  with  a  weakened  so- 
lution of  bromo-chloralum.  It  is  an  excellent  wash  for 
sores  and  wounds  that  have  an  offensive  odor. 


310  MISCELLANEOUS. 

To  Soften  Old  Putty  or  Paint. 

Soft  soap  mixed  with  a  solution  of  potash  or  caustic 
soda;  or  pearlash  and  slacked  lime  mixed  with  sufficient 
water  to  form  a  paste.  Either  of  these  may  be  applied 
with  a  brush  or  rag,  and  when  left  for  some  time  will  ren- 
der its  removal  easy. 

Cement  for  Fastening  Wood  and  Stone. 

Melt  together  four  parts  of  pitch  and  one  part  of  wax; 
then  add  four  parts  of  powdered  brick-dust  or  chalk.  It 
must  be  warmed  before  use,  and  thinly  applied  to  the  sur- 
faces to  be  joined. 

Sealing  Wax. 

6%  pounds  of  rosin. 

*4  pound  of  beeswax. 

i  y2  pounds  of  Venetian  red. 

Melt  all  together. 

To  Remove  Bottle  Stoppers. 

A  few  drops  of  ammonia  will  loosen  glass  stoppers  in 
jars  or  bottles. 

To  Make  Hens  Lay. 

Give  one  teaspoonful  powdered  cayenne  pepper  every 
other  day,  to  every  dozen  fowls. 

Antidotes  for  Poison. 

For  any  poison  swallow  instantly  a  glass  of  cold  water 
with  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  common  salt  and  one  of 
ground  mustard  stirred  in.  This  is  a  speedy  emetic. 
When  it  has  acted,  swallow  the  whites  of  two  raw  eggs. 
If  you  have  taken  corrosive  sublimate,  take  half  a  dozen 
raw  eggs  besides  the  emetic.  If  laudanum,  a  cup  of  very 
strong  coffee.  If  arsenic,  first  the  emetic,  then  half  a 
cud  of  sweet  oil  or  melted  lard. 


ARRANGING  THE  TABLE. 

Shape  and  Size  of  Table. 

Regarding  the  setting  of  the  table,  and  the  serving  of 
the  food  we  start  with  the  supposition  that  the  ordinary 
oval  "extension"  table  is  used.  Some  authors  recom- 
mend a  circular  table  about  five  feet  in  diameter,  and 
think  this  plenty  large  for  six  or  even  eight  persons.  This 
would  do  well  if  all  the  dishes  were  to  be  carved  and 
served  by  the  servant  in  what  is  known  as  the  Russian 
style.  But  most  Americans,  with  Addison,  do  not  like  all 
their  food  both  bestowed  and  distributed  like  rations  to 
paupers.  And  then,  too,  we  like  plenty  of  room — elbow- 
room — at  table.  Be  sure  that  you  have  the  table  large 
enough  so  that  not  only  the  guests  need  not  jostle  or 
crowd  each  other,  but  that  you  may  have  sufficient  room 
to  arrange  the  dishes  with  taste,  and  also  to  place  such 
•ornaments  upon  the  table  as  are  needed  to  give  it  a 
bright  and  cheery  look.  Nothing  looks  more  vulgar  and 
unpleasant  than  a  crowded  or  overloaded  table  devoid  of 
■ornaments,  so  do  not  not  fail  to  provide  plenty  of  room 
for  dishes  and  ornaments. 

Table  Linen. 

Too  much  cannot  be  said  about  the  pleasant  effect 
produced  by  having  the  linen  of  the  most  spotless  white- 
ness. 

There  should  be  a  thick  baize  placed  under  the  table- 
cloth. It  prevents  noise,  and  the  heaviest  table-linen  will 
look  comparatively  thin  and  sleazy  when  placed  upon  a 
bare  table.     Few  people  afford  such  table-cloths  as  need 


3*2  SERVING    FRUITS. 

no  starch,  but  when  starch  is  used  there  should  be  so 
little  that  it  cannot  be  detected  by  the  eye.  Napkins 
should  not  be  starched.  It  makes  them  stiff  and  disa- 
greeable. 

Table  Ornaments. 

Nothing  is  so  pretty  and  so  indicative  of  a  fine  taste  as 
flowers.  If  you  have  no  epergne  (an  ornamental  stand 
for  a  large  dish  in  the  center  of  the  table)  use  a  compatier, 
or  raised  dish,  with  a  plate  upon  the  top  for  cut  flowers  ; 
or  place  flower-pots  with  blossoming  plants  on  the  table. 
A  net-work  of  wire  painted  green,  or  of  wood  or  crochet 
work,  may  be  used  to  conceal  the  roughness  of  the  flower- 
pot, or  it  may  be  set  into  a  jardiniere  vase.  The  flowers 
form  a  handsome  center-piece  around  which  to  place  two 
or  four  fancy  dessert  dishes.  The  dessert  will  consist  of 
fruit,  fresh  or  candied,  fancy  cakes,  candies,  nuts,  rai- 
sins, etc. 


SERVING  FRUITS. 

Mixed  Fruits. 

Always  choose  a  raised  dish  for  fruits.  Arrange  part 
of  the  clusters  of  grapes  to  fall  gracefully  over  the  edge 
of  the  dish.  Mix  any  kind  of  pretty  green  leaves  or 
vines  which  may  also  fall  and  wind  around  the  stem  of 
the  dish.  Arrange  firmly,  so  that  when  the  dish  is  moved 
there  will  be  no  danger  of  an  avalanche. 

Water-Melon. 

A  water-melon  should  be  thoroughly  chilled.  It  should 
be  kept  on  the  ice  until  about  to  be  served.  It  may  be 
simply  cut  in  two  with  a  slice  cut  from  the  convex  ends 
to  enable  the  ends  to  stand  firmly  on  the  platter.  Then 
the  pulp  is  scooped  out  in  egg-shaped  pieces,  with  a  table- 
spoon, and  served. 


COMBINATION    OF    DISHES.  313 


Peaches. 


Choose  large,  fresh,  ripe  and  juicy  peaches,  pare  and 
cut  them  into  two  or  three  pieces.  They  should  be  large, 
luscious  looking  peaches,  not  little  chipped  affairs. 
Sprinkle  over  granulated  sugar,  put  them  into  the  freezer 
and  half  freeze  them  ;  this  will  require  about  an  hour,  as 
they  are  more  difficult  to  freeze  than  cream.  Do  not  take 
them  from  the  freezer  till  the  moment  of  serving,  then 
sprinkle  over  a  little  more  sugar.  Serve  in  a  glass  dish. 
Canned  peaches  can  be  treated  in  the  same  way. 


COMBINATION    OF  DISHES. 

Soups. 

Soup  is  generally  served  alone  ;  however,  pickles  and 
crackers  are  a  pleasant  accompaniment  for  oyster  soup, 
and  many  serve  grated  cheese  with  macaroni  or  vermicelli 
soups.  Hot  boiled  rice  is  served  with  gumbo  soup.  This 
the  hostess  serves  in  the  soup,  a  ladleful  of  soup  and  a 
spoonful  of  the  rice.  Cold  slaw  is  sometimes  served  at 
the  same  time  with  the  soup,  and  eaten  with  the  soup  or 
just  after  the  soup-plates  are  removed. 

Fish. 

The  only  vegetable  to  be  served  with  fish  is  potato. 
They  may  be  served  boiled  whole,  or  some  stuff  the  fish 
with  seasoned  mashed  potatoes. 

Beef  and  Veal. 

Almost  any  vegetable  may  be  served  with  beef.  At 
dinner  parties,  mushroom  sauce  is  generally  served  with 
beef.  Horse-radish  is  a  favorite  accompaniment  for  beef. 
Tomatoes,  parsnips  and  oyster-plant  are  especially  suit- 
able for  veal. 


314  preparing  the  table. 

Corned  Beef. 

This  should  be  served  with  carrots,  parsnips,  turnips, 
cabbage  or  pickles  around  it. 

Turkeys. 

Cranberry  sauce  or  some  acid  jelly  should  be  served 
with  turkey.     Any  vegetable  may  be  served  with  it. 

Chickens. 

A  boiled  chicken  is  generally  served  on  a  bed  of  boiled 
Trice.  A  row  of  baked  potatoes  is  a  pretty  garnish  for  a 
Toast  chicken.     Serve  salads  with  chicken. 

Lamb  and  Mutton 

are  nice  with  green  peas,  spinach,  cauliflower  or  as- 
paragus. 

Pork. 

The  best  combinations  for  pork  are  fried  apples,  apple 
sauce,  sweet  potatoes,  tomatoes  or  Irish  potatoes.  Pork 
sausages  should  always  be  served  with  fried  apples  or 
apple  sauce. 

Roast  Goose 

*calls  for  apple  sauce  and  turnips. 

Game 

•should  be  served  with  some  kind  of  acid  jelly,  as  currant 
or  plum.  Spinach,  tomatoes  and  salads  are  especially 
suitable  for  game. 


PREPARING  THE  TABLE. 


Put  a  knife  and  fork  by  the  side  of,  and  a  napkin  on, 
•each  plate.  Place  water  glasses  by  the  plates  ready  to 
be  filled  just  before  the  dinner  is  announced.  At  a  din- 
ger party,  place  a  little  bouquet  by  the  plate  of  each  lady 
in  a  glass  or  silver  bouquet-holder.     At  each  gentleman's 


SERVING    THE    DINNER.  315 

plate  put  a  little  bunch  of  three  or  four  flowers,  called  a 
boutonniere  in  the  folds  of  the  napkin.  As  soon  as  the 
gentlemen  are  seated  at  table  they  may  attach  them  to 
the  left  lappel  of  the  coat. 

Have  the  plates  intended  for  dessert  already  prepared, 
with  a  finger-bowl  on  each  plate.  The  finger-glasses 
should  be  half  filled  with  water  with  a  slice  of  lemon  in 
each,  or  a  geranium  leaf  and  one  flower. 

The  warm  dishes — not  hot  dishes — keep  in  a  closet 
or  on  the  top  shelf  of  the  range  till  the  moment  of  serving. 

Place  the  soup  tureen  (with  soup  that  has  been  brought 
to  the  boiling  point  just  before  serving)  before  the  seat 
of  the  hostess. 

Dinner  being  now  ready  it  should  be  announced  by  the 
butler  or  waiting-maid.     Never  ring  a  bell  for  a  meal. 

If  the  company  be  so  large  that  the  hostess  cannot 
place  her  guests  without  confusion,  have  a  little  card  on 
.each  plate  bearing  the  name  of  the  person  who  is  to 
occupy  the  place. 

Bills  of  fare  when  they  are  used  are  often  written  in 
French,  but  good  sense  would  lead  one  to  prefer  our  own 
language,  as  it  is  almost  impossible  to  find  a  company  all 
of  the  members  of  which  could  read  the  French. 


SERVING  THE  DINNER. 


The  soup,  salad  and  dessert  should  be  placed  invariably 
"before  the  hostess,  and  all  other  dishes  before  the  host. 

As  each  plate  is  ready,  the  host  puts  it  upon  the  small 
salver  held  by  the  butler  who  then  with  his  own  hand 
places  this  and  the  other  plates  on  the  table  before  each 
guest.  If  a  second  dish  is  served  in  the  course,  the 
butler,  putting  a  spoon  in  it,  presents  it  on  the  left  side 
of  each  person,  allowing  him  to  help  himself.  As  soon 
as  any  one  has  finished  with  his  plate,  the  butler  should 
remove  it  without  waiting  for  the  others  to  finish.  When 
the  plates  are  all  removed,  the  butler  should  bring  on 
the  next  course.  It  is  not  necessary  to  use  the  crumb- 
scraper  till  just  before  the  dessert  is  served. 


TABLE  ETIQUETTE, 


"  Chatted  food  is  half  digested." 

— Old  Proverb. 

The  first  essential  is  to  catch  the  hare,  and  the  second 
to  cook  it  well,  but  the  third  is  undoubtedly  to  eat  it 
properly.  Human  beings  were  never  intended  to  be  the 
mere  guzzlers  of  food  that  they  too  often  are.  A  due  at- 
tention to  the  grace  and  decency  of  feeding  is  often  the 
surest  means  of  provoking  the  taste  of  the  nice.  A  well 
presented  meal  will  entice  the  languid  appetite,  when  the 
same  food  ill  served  will  repel  all  desire.  Cheerfulness 
of  mind  is  as  essential  to  a  good  digestion,  as  a  good  di- 
gestion is  essential  to  cheerfulness  of  mind.  Sterne  said, 
'A  man's  body  and  his  mind  are  like  a  jerkin  and  a  jer- 
kin's lining;  rumple  the  one,  you  rumple  the  other." 

The  first  duty  of  an  entertainer  is  to  see  that  his  friends 
are  well  served.  "  The  host  who  has  compelled  a  guest 
to  ask  him  for  anything,  is  almost  a  dishonored  man." 
He  should  anticipate  the  wants  of  all.  An  excessive  en- 
treaty to  eat  is,  however,  not  in  good  taste,  and  a  refined 
guest  never  expects  it. 

The  guest  should  commence  eating  as  soon  as  helped, 
and  not  wait,  as  some  people  with  a  strain  of  excessive 
politeness  do,  until  all  are  served,  and  thus  produce  an 
awkward  pause  of  staring  expectancy. 

We  need  not  go  so  far  back  into  the  elements  of  good 
breeding  as  some  writers  on  etiquette  have,  and  remind 
our  well-bred  readers  that  it  is  not  considered  polite  to 
pick  one's  teeth  with  a  fork  at  the  table,  and  that  the  wa- 
ter in  the  finger-glasses  is  not  to  be  drank,  but  to  be  used 


TABLE    ETIQUETTE.  317 

to  wash  the  fingers.  The  various  observances  of  table 
ceremony  are  not  so  frivolous  as  they  may  appear.  For 
example,  soup  should  not  be  taken  the  second  time,  as  it 
is  too  much  fluid  for  any  stomach  at  the  beginning  of  a 
dinner.  The  knife  should  be  used  for  cutting  food  and 
not  for  conveying  it  to  the  mouth.  The  waiter  should 
not  be  allowed  to  serve  from  the  right  hand,  for  nothing 
can  be  more  awkward  than  to  attempt  to  take  anything 
from  the  waiter  on  the  wrong  side,  which  is  the  right  hand. 

At  a  large  dinner  party  it  is  better  to  confine  your  pow- 
ers of  entertainment  to  your  immediate  neighbors,  and 
avoid  brawling  out  to  those  opposite,  or  at  a  considerable 
distance  from  you.  When  the  waiters  are  limited  in  num- 
ber, the  gentlemen  present  should  attend  carefully  to  the 
wants  of  the  ladies  in  their  vicinity.  Avoid  all  gross  heap- 
ing up  of  your  plates.  As  a  general  rule,  refuse  to  be 
served  with  more  than  one  kind  of  meat  and  vegetable 
at  a  time.  There  is  one  good  rule,  which,  if  followed,  will 
make  you  an  acceptable  guest  everywhere:  Be  not  obtru- 
sive; do  everything  smoothly  and  quietly;  talk  in  a  low 
tone  of  voice,  and  handle  you  knife,  fork  and  plate  with- 
out clatter,  and  eat  without  any  audible  gulping  and 
smacking  of  the  lips. 

By  common  consent  many  of  the  usual  table  formali- 
ties are  dispensed  with  at  breakfast;  at  this  informal  re- 
past, each  person  is  left  free  within  certain  limits,  to  con- 
sult exclusively  his  own  convenience.  It  is  not  expected 
that  there  should  be  a  gathering  in  the  drawing-room  or 
elsewhere,  of  the  whole  party,  and  a  simultaneous  move- 
ment to  the  breakfast  table  as  at  dinner.  The  presence 
of  the  host  and  hostess  is  not  exacted,  although  where 
there  is  a  family  of  children  requiring  the  discipline  of 
order  and  punctuality,  no  parent  should  fail  to  set  the  ex- 
ample of  regular  observance  of  the  hour  of  breakfast,  as 
of  every  other  meal. 

The  breakfast  table  should  be,  in  accordance  with  the 
unceremoniousness  of  the  repast,  very  simply  dressed. 
The  damask  tablecloth  and  napkins,  the  white  china,  the 


315  TABLE   ETIQUETTE. 

shining  urn,  the  glittering  glassware  symmetrically  ar- 
ranged, will  of  themselves  contribute  to  entice  a  morning 
appetite.  The  center  of  the  table  should  always  be- 
adorned  with  flowers,  if  they  can  be  obtained,  or  fruit 
when  in  season.  The  mistress  of  the  house  takes  her 
place  at  the  head  or  side  of  the  table  and  before  her  she 
has  the  tray  with  the  various  vessels  for  the  usual  domes- 
tic beverages,  tea  and  coffee.  The  hot  water  should  be- 
freely  used,  not  so  much  to  temper  the  tea  and  coffee,  as 
to  rinse  out  the  cups.  The  slop-bowl  is  a  necessary  ves- 
sel, which,  however,  is  too  often  wanting.  Fastidious- 
people  do  not  care  to  see  the  "jetsams  "  and  "  flotsams  " 
of  their  first  cup  floating  in  their  second. 

It  is  not  customary  for  fastidious  people  to  accept  of 
more  than  two  cups  of  tea  or  coffee;  but  we  do  not  know 
why  good  breeding,  though  moderation  and  temperance 
in  all  things  is  one  of  its  cardinal  principles,  should  con- 
fine itself  to  precisely  that  number.  It  has  always  been 
recognized  as  a  symbol — the  origin  of  which  we  do  not 
pretend  to  know — of  having  had  enough  when  the  drink- 
er leaves  his  spoon  in  his  cup,  and  of  his  wanting  more 
when  it  is  left  in  his  saucer. 

It  is  always  considered  good  breeding  to  get  through 
the  breakfast  with  as  little  formality  of  service  as  possible. 
The  well-bred  on  such  occasions  whatever  force  they  ma^ 
have  of  servants,  dispense  as  far  as  possible  with  their 
presence,  and  content  themselves  with  a  neatly  dressed 
and  unobtrusive  maid,  who  knows  when  to  make  a  timely 
exit. 

The  simplest  costume  is  always  regarded  as  the  most 
becoming  for  breakfast.  The  matron  should  make  her 
appearance  in  white  cap  and  early  morning  indoor  dress; 
and  the  master  of  the  house  may  present  himself  in  his 
ordinary  dress,  or  even  in  shooting  jacket. 

The  wedding  or  formal  official  breakfast  is  a  stereo- 
typed affair.  It  is  little  else  than  the  fashionable  ball 
supper,  lighted  up  by  day  instead  of  gaslight. 

The  proper  costume  at  wedding  and  formal  breakfasts,. 
as  at  all  festivals  before  dinner,  is  a  morning  dress.     The 


TABLE   ETIQUETTE.  319^ 

gentlemen  should  wear  frock  coats  and  light  vests  and 
trousers,  and  the  ladies  with  their  usual  morning  visiting 
drapery.  The  gentleman  ordinarily  enters  the  drawing- 
room  with  his  hat  in  his  hand,  and  the  lady  will  always, 
unless  very  intimate,  present  herself  with  her  bonnet  on 
her  head.  The  guests  take  their  places  with  all  the  cere- 
mony of  a  formal  banquet.  The  bride  and  bride-groom 
always  have  the  precedence  in  the  procession  to  the  re- 
freshment room,  and  others  take  their  position  according 
to  their  age  and  rank.  The  gentleman  in  escorting  his- 
lady,  should  always  give  her  his  right  arm. 

Of  late  years  the  luncheon,  or  dejeuner  a  la  fourchette 
— the  breakfast  with  a  fork — has  been  dignified  by  its  for- 
mal recognition  by  society  as  a  cermonious  repast.  There 
is,  however,  much  less  formality  in  the  serving  of  a  lunch 
than  a  dinner.  It  is  seldom  in  this  country,  though  gen- 
erally in  France,  composed  of  several  courses.  The 
whole  repast,  whatever  it  may  be,  is  set  before  the  guests> 
at  the  same  time.  When  only  one  or  two  are  to  partake 
of  the  meal,  a  tray  is  served;  but  when  more,  the  whole 
table  is  spread,  but  everything  to  be  eaten  ordinarily  ap- 
pears upon  it.  The  formal  breakfast  or  lunch  is  more  es- 
pecially the  feast  of  literary  men,  fashionable  women, 
and  other  idlers.  At  their  "  receptions  "  the  dames  gen- 
erally serve  up  chocolate  and  cake. 

The  origin  of  dinner  eating  is  coeval  with  the  creation 
of  man,  but  dinner  giving  is  the  late  product  of  advanced 
civilization.  A  popular  author  says:  "  It  may  be  received 
as  an  axiom  that  the  social  progress  of  a  community  is  in 
direct  proportion  to  the  number  of  its  dinner  parties." 
It  is  unquestionable  that  more  enduring  alliances  have- 
been  struck  by  diplomatists  across  the  mahogany  than 
were  ever  agreed  upon  in  ministerial  cabinets. 

In  regard  to  eating,  parsimony  is  by  no  means  the  best 
economy  of  time.  It  is  particularly  necessary  to  lengthen 
the  American  dinner,  and  we  know  of  no  better  means  of 
doing  this  than  by  dividing  it  into  courses,  and  interspers- 
ing between  them  cheerful  interludes  of  social  talk.  The 
old  proverb,  that  "chatted  food  is  half  digested"  is  worth 


J20  TABLE    ETIQUETTE. 

remembering.  A  full  hour,  at  least,  should  be  spared 
from  the  busiest  day  for  the  main  repast.  Let  each  one 
make  the  most  of  his  dinner,  whatever  it  may  be;  let  it 
be  prolonged  and  freed  from  grossness  by  a  graceful  cer- 
emony; and  above  all,  let  it  be  partaken  of  in  company, 
for  nothing  is  so  depressing  to  mind  and  body  as  solitary 
feeding. 

The  number  of  persons  at  a  dinner  party,  according  to 
an  old  saying,  should  never  be  "  more  than  the  muses 
(nine),  or  less  than  the  graces  (three)."  Brillat-Savarin 
says,  "  Let  not  the  number  of  the  company  exceed  twelve;" 
for  he,  like  all  of  his  country-men,  stops  suddenly  short 
of  the  thirteen — an  ominous  number  in  the  superstitious 
fancy  of  the  French.  It  is  too  much  the  practice,  partic- 
ularly in  this  country,  to  invite  people  of  the  same  pro- 
fession or  occupation  to  dine  together.  Brillat-Savarin, 
than  whom  there  is  no  better  authority,  says,  "  that  the 
guests  invited  to  a  dinner  should  be  so  selected  that  their 
occupations  shall  be  varied,  and  their  tastes  analogous,  and 
with  such  points  of  contact,  that  there  shall  be  no  neces- 
sity for  the  odious  formality  of  a  presentation." 

The  invitations,  if  the  party  is  a  formal  one,  should  be 
sent  about  a  week  or  ten  days  before  the  dinner.  The 
usual  formula  is  simply  this,  either  written  in  a  note  or 
printed  on  a  card: 

Mr.  and  Mrs. request  the  pleasure  of  Mr. 's 

company, (date  and  No.),  at o'clock. 

The  favor  of  an  answer  is  requested;  (or)  R.  S.  V.  P. 

A  formal  acceptation  should  read  thus: 

Mr. accepts  with  pleasure  Mrs. 's   invitation 

to  dinner,  at o'clock,  on . 

All  written  invitations  should  be  answered  immediately 
in  writing,  but  especially  invitations  to  dinner,  and  should 
be  complied  with  at  all  hazards.  If,  by  any  mischance — 
as  the  death  of  a  relative,  or  some  other  serious  cause — the 
guest,  after  having  once  accepted  an  invitation,  is  unable 
to  comply  with  it,  he  must  be  careful  to  send  notice  of  the 
fact,  with  his  regrets,  at  the  earliest  possible  moment. 

At  all  dinner  parties,  the  ladies  and  gentlemen  are  ex- 


TABLE   ETIQUETTE.  32 1 

pected  to  present  themselves  in  full  evening  costume. 
The  host  and  hostess,  particularly  when  the  occasion  is 
not  a  very  formal  one,  will  take  care  to  keep  their  own 
dresses  in  due  subordination,  lest  they  may  possibly  out- 
shine too  evidently  some  of  their  guests,  and  unnecessa- 
rily put  them  to  the  blush- 
Punctuality  is  essential  to  the  perfection  of  dining,  as 
it  is  to  the  proper  performance  of  every  social  duty. 
Fashion  now  sanctions  what  common  sense  has  always  in- 
culcated, and  men  of  society  are  expected,  alike  with  men 
of  business  to  be  exact  in  their  engagements. 

On  arriving  at  the  house,  the  gentleman  if  accompanied 
by  a  lady,  gives  her  his  arm  on  entering  the  drawing-room, 
and  the  first  person  addressed  should  be  the  hostess. 
Very  fashionable  people  have  a  footman  at  the  door  to 
announce  the  names  of  the  guests  as  they  present  them- 
selves. If  this  is  not  done,  the  host  or  hostess  may  in- 
troduce their  visitors  to  each  other,  taking  care  to  make  as 
little  fuss  as  possible  about  it.  When  introductions  are 
dispensed  with,  as  they  may  be  with  propriety,  the  guests 
should  have  no  hesitation  in  conversing  freely  with  each 
other  as  mutual  acquaintances. 

When  the  dinner  is  announced,  a  procession  is  at  once 
formed.  The  host  gives  his  right  arm  to  the  female  guest 
who,  from  age,  rank  or  strangeness,  has  the  precedence, 
and  leads  her  to  a  place  at  the  dinner  table  at  his  right, 
he  being  at  the  head  or  at  one  side;  after  whom  comes  the 
most  distinguished  male  guest  with  the  hostess.  In  Eng- 
land, the  hostess  often  remains  with  the  most  important 
male  person  until  the  last,  and  performs  the  duty  of  pair- 
ing the  guests.  The  hostess  will  seat  herself  at  the  other 
extremity,  or  at  the  opposite  side  of  the  table,  with  her 
escort  on  her  right.  The  rest  follow  in  couples,  ranked 
generally  according  to  age,  and  as  they  enter  the  dining- 
room  are  placed  so  that  the  host  may  be  flanked  on"  either 
side  by  a  lady,  and  the  hostess  by  a  gentleman.  The 
rest  of  the  guests  are  arranged  in  successive  couples,  so 
that  each  gentleman  will  be  between  two  ladies,  and  each 
lady  between  two  gentlemen,  provided  the  guests  will  al- 
41 


322  TABLE   ETIQUETTE. 

low  of  such  an  arrangement.  It  is  usual  to  separate  the 
husband  from  the  wife,  and  temporarily  sever  other  do- 
mestic relations. 

If  you  value  your  health  you  will  take  a  substantial 
meal  at  an  early  hour  of  the  day,  say  at  noon,  or  there- 
abouts. The  appetite  is  almost  universally  strong  at  this 
time,  and  the  corporeal  energies  being  in  their  fullest 
strength,  the  function  of  digestion  is  more  readily  and  ef- 
fectively performed.  The  mistake  which  is  made  by 
many  who  take  a  late  dinner  is,  that  they  make  it  serve 
the  purpose  of  both  dinner  and  supper.  It  is  dangerous 
to  abandon  the  early  dinner  without  an  equivalent  in  the 
form  of  a  solid  luncheon.  All  epicures  agree,  moreover, 
that  to  appreciate  a  fine  dinner,  it  must  not  be  eaten  with 
the  voracity  of  the  man  famished  by  a  whole  day's  hun- 
ger. In  England,  people  seldom  sit  down  to  a  dinner 
before  seven,  or  half  past  seven  or  eight  o'clock.  In 
France  six  is  the  usual  hour,  and  the  fashionable  people 
of  the  United  States  seem  generally  inclined  to  follow  the 
French  in  this,  as  in  other  things.  If  our  advice,  and  a 
substantial  lunch  at  noon  be  taken,  we  would  recommend 
the  ceremonious  repast  of  the  day  never  to  be  eaten  ear- 
lier than  half  past  five. 

The  ordinary  mode  of  serving  a  dinner  is  the  French 
one.  The  various  dishes  are  placed  upon  the  table  just 
as  they  leave  the  hands  of  the  cook,  and  being  carved  by 
host  and  hostess  are  distributed  by  the  servants  to  the 
guests.  For  formal  occasions,  however,  the  Russian  mode, 
or  the  diner  a  la  Russe,  has  become  fashionable.  The 
dishes,  when  this  style  is  adopted,  are  not  served  until  cut 
up,  when  they  are  handed  in  succession  to  each  guest  by 
the  waiters.  The  table  is  adorned  in  the  center  with 
flowers  and  fruit,  various  gelatines  and  ornamental  con- 
fectionery. The  plates  of  soup  are  generally  put  on  the 
table  before  the  guests  are  called  in,  and  a  bill  of  fare,  as 
well  as  the  name  of  each  person,  to  indicate  the  seat  he  is 
to  occupy,  printed  or  written  upon  a  card,  is  placed  on 
the  napkin.  Under  each  soup-plate  is  one  of  the  ordi- 
nary kind  of  plates.     When  the  dessert  is  to  be  eaten,  a 


TABLE   ETIQUETTE.  323 

silver  knife,  fork  and  spoon  are  served  upon  a  small  plate 
with  the  finger  bowl  and  d'oylay.  The  guest  on  receiving 
these,  spreads  his  d'oylay  on  his  left,  deposits  the  finger- 
bowl  upon  it,  and  noiselessly  sets  his  knife  on  the  right, 
and  his  fork  and  spoon  on  the  left. 

Soup  should  be  placed  on  the  table  first.  Some  old 
fashioned  people  place  fish  and  soup  together,  but"  it  is 
a  custom  more  honored  in  the  breach  than  in  the  observ- 
ance." All  well  ordered  dinners  begin  with  soup,  which 
the  hostess  should  serve  and  send  round.  If  wine  is 
served,  it  should  follow  the  soup. 

For  ordinary  dinner,  the  following  menu  is  sufficient: 
One  kind  of  soup,  one  kind  of  fish,  two  entre'es,  a  roast,  a 
boil,  game,  cheese,  ices,  dessert  and  coffee. 

For  more  ceremonious  dinners,  two  soups  (one  white, 
the  other  clear),  two  kinds  of  fish,  and  four  entre'es  are 
necessary.  Bread  should  not  be  cut  less  than  an  inch 
thick,  rolls  are  preferred. 

Entrees  are  those  dishes  which  are  served  in  the  first 
course  after  the  fish. 

Entre?nents  are  those  served  in  the  second  course  after 
the  roast. 

It  is  a  foreign  custom,  and  an  excellent  one,  to  serve 
the  coffee  in  the  dining-room  before  the  ladies  retire, 
as  it  puts  an  end  to  the  prolonged  wine  drinking,  now 
so  universally  condemned  by  all  well-bred  people. 

The  hostess  gives  the  signal  by  rising  from  the  table, 
and  the  gentlemen  and  ladies  return  to  the  drawing- 
room  in  the  order  in  which  they  left. 

It  is  seldom  that  a  person  takes  a  seat,  but  all  remain 
standing  or  walk  about  the  drawing-room  conversing  or 
admiring  the  pictures,  articles  of  vertu,  and  whatever  else 
may  invite  notice.  The  visit  to  the  drawing-room  be- 
ing merely  designed  to  graduate  the  farewell,  and  thus 
render  the  departure  less  abrupt,  is  naturally  informal. 
The  stay  after  dinner,  unless  additional  company  has  been 
invited,  and  there  is  a  supplementary  evening  party,  is 
seldom  prolonged  beyond  half  an  hour,  when  leave  is 
quietly  taken. 


BILLS   OF  FARE. 


Breakfast.     No.  i. 

Mutton  Chops,  Minced  Codfish  with  Eggs, 

Stewed  Potatoes, 

Rice  Cakes,  Gems, 

Cold  Bread, 

Tea,  Coffee. 

Breakfast.     No.  2. 

Codfish  Balls,  Cold  Venison, 
Muffins, 

Corn  Bread,  Rolls, 

Tea,  Coffee. 

Breakfast.     No.  3. 

Broiled  Beefsteak,  Cold  Tongue, 

Baked  Potatoes, 

Cracker  Toast,  Corn  Meal  Muffins, 

Tea,  Coffee. 

Breakfast.     No.  4. 

Broiled  Fresh  Fish,  Beefsteak, 

Fried  Potatoes, 

Cream  Toast,  Graham  Biscuit, 

Rolls, 

Tea,  Coffee. 


BILLS   OF    FARE.  325 

Dinner.     No.  i. 

Ox-Tail  Soup, 

Salmon, 

Roast  Beef,  Roast  Pork, 

Mashed  Potatoes,         Boiled  Rice,         Apple  Sauce, 

Stewed  Tomatoes,  Onions,  Squash, 

Horse  Radish,  Chow  Chow, 

Apple  Pie,  Cream  Pie, 

Apples,         Raisins,         Nuts, 

Tea,         Coffee. 

Dinner.     No.  2. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Baked  Halibut, 

Turkey,  Roast  Mutton, 

Boiled  Potatoes,       Cabbage,      Parsnips,       Hominy, 

Cranberry  Sauce,      Currant  Jelly, 

Tapioca  Pudding,  Mince  Pie, 

Assorted  Cake, 

Lemon  Ice  Cream,     Nuts,     Oranges,     Apples,     Raisins, 

Tea,  Coffee. 

Dinner.     No.  3. 

Asparagus     Soup, 

Fresh  Mackerel, 

Roast  Lamb,  Boiled  Tongue, 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Green  Peas,  Squash, 

Cucumbers,      Onions,       Horse  Radish,      Pickled  Beets, 

Cocoanut  Pie,  Jelly  Cake, 

Ice  Cream,  Wine  Jelly, 

Tea,         Coffee. 


326  bills  of  fare. 

Dinner.     No.  4. 

Pea     Soup, 

Rock  Fish, 

Spare-rib  of  Pork,  Roast  Veal  Stuffed, 

Boiled  Potatoes,       Escalloped  Tomatoes,       Onions, 

Pickled  Beets,       Apple  Sauce,       Chow  Chow,       Celery, 

Horseradish,    Anchovy  Sauce,    Tomato  Catsup, 

Boston  Lemon  Pudding,         Squash  Pie, 

Blanc  Mange,     Charlotte  Russe, 

Oranges,        Apples,         Nuts,         Raisins, 

Tea,         Coffee. 

Supper.     No.  i. 

Cold  Pickled  Salmon,  Cold  Boiled  Tongue, 

Bread  and  Butter, 

Crackers  and  Cheese,         Selected  Cake, 

Tea,     Coffee. 

Supper.     No.  2. 

Cold  Roast  Meat,  Raw  Oysters, 

Bread  and  Butter,  Canned  Fruit, 

Selected  Cake,     Tea,  Coffee. 

Supper.     No.  3. 

Cold  Ham,  Lobster, 

Biscuit  and    Butter, 

Preserved  Pine  Apple,  Sponge  Cake,      Cup  Cake, 

Tea,  Coffee. 

Supper.     No.  4. 

Cold  Fowl,  Sardines, 

French  Rolls  and  Butter,  Crackers  and  Cheese, 

Preserved  Fruit,  Selected  Cake, 

Tea,    '  Coffee. 


INDEX. 


SOUP. 

MEAT  AND  VEGETABLE. 

PAGE. 

Asparagus 17 

Beef 13 

Bean,  Dry 17 

Calf's  Head,  Plain 15 

Corn,  Green 16 

Croutons 18 

Flavors  for 11 

French  Vegetable 14 

Mutton 14 

Mock  Turtle 15 

Noodles  for 18 

Ox-Tail 15 

Pea 17 

Powder  for 12 

Turkey 13 

Tomato 17 

Veal  with  Macaroni..   .  13 

Vegetable 16 

FISH    SOUP. 

Catfish 20 

Clam 19 

Lobster 20 

Oyster  (No.  1) 19 

Oyster  (No.  2) 19 

FISH. 
Catfish,  fried 26 


JAGS, 

Codfish,  (fresh)  boiled.  21 

Codfish  (salt)  boiled..  .  22 
Codfish      Sounds     and 

Tongues , 22 

Codfish  Balls 23 

Codfish  (salt)  and  Eggs.  22 

Codfish  and  Potato  Stew  23 

Eels,  stewed 29 

Eels,  fried 29 

Fish,  broiled 23 

Fish  Chowder  (No.  1)  .  24 

Fish  Chowder  (No.  2)  .  24 

Halibut,  boiled 28 

Halibut,  baked 28 

Halibut  Steak 28 

Mackerel  (salt) 23 

Mackerel  (fresh)  broiled  24 

Rock  Fish 22 

Salmon,  broiled 25 

Salmon,  boiled 25 

Salmon,  baked 25 

Shad,  (fresh)  broiled  . .  27 

Shad,  (salt)  broiled ... .  28 

Shad,  (fresh)  boiled. . .  26 

Shad,  (salt)  boiled  ....  27 

Shad,  fried 27 

Shad,  baked 27 

Smelts 29 

Trout,  Salmon,  boiled. .  26 

Trout,  Salmon,  baked..  25 


328 


INDEX 


PAGE. 

Trout,  Brook,  fried ... .  26 

SHELL    FISH. 

Clams,  To  Open 30 

Glams,  boiled 30 

Clam  Chowder  (No.  1).  30 

Clam  Chowder  (No.  2).  30 

Lobster,  To  Select  ....  31 

Lobster,  To  Serve 31 

Oysters,  fried 32 

Oyster  Fritters 31 

Oyster  Omelet 34 

Oyster  Pie 33 

Oysters,  Pickled 33 

Oyster  Patties 32 

Oysters,  Raw 33 

Oysters,  Scalloped,  ....  32 

MEAT. 

BEEF    AND    VEAL. 

Beef,      Directions      for 

Boiling 37 

Beef,      Directions      for 

Roasting 38 

Beef,  (corned)  boiled. . .  39 

Beef,  To  Corn 43 

Beef  Croquettes 42 

Beef,  (dried) 40 

Beef,  French  Method  . .  40 

Beef,  hashed 41 

Beef 's  Liver 41 

Beef  Omelet 42 

Beef  Pickle 42 

Beef  Tongue 39 

Beef  Steak  (No.  1)....  38 

Beef  Steak  (No.  2) 39 

Beef  Steak,  Tough 39 


PAGE. 

Crust  for  Meat  Pie 42 

Meat  Pie 41 

Sweetbread,  fried 46 

Sweetbread,  broiled ....  46 

Veal,  broiled 44 

Veal  Chops 43 

Veal  Cutlets 43 

Veal  Fillet 44 

Veal  Loaf 45 

Veal  Loin 45 

Veal  Omelet 46 

Veal  Pot  Pie... 45 

Veal  Pie 44 

Veal  Steak 43 

MUTTON. 

Mutton,  boiled 48 

Mutton  or  Lamb  Chops 

Broiled 47 

Mutton  Cutlets 48 

Mutton  Leg,  boned ....  48 

Mutton,  roast 47 

Mutton,  stew 46 

PORK. 

Ham,  broiled 53 

Ham  and  Eggs .  ..  53 

Ham  or  Shoulder,  boiled  52 

H am s,  ( mo/asses  cured) . .  52 

Head  Cheese  or  Souse  .  54 

Lard 49 

Pig,  roast 49 

Pork  Steak 51 

Pig's  Feet 54 

Pork  and  Beans,  baked.  55 

Shoulder  of  Pork 5a 

Sausages,  To  Make....  51 

Sausages,  To  Fry 5  s 


INDEX. 


329 


Sausage,  Bologna 52 

Salt  Pork,  fried 53 

Spare-rib  or  Chine '50 

Tripe. 54 

POULTRY. 

Chicken,  broiled 58 

fried 58 

"        fricasseed  ....    58 

"       ^ 59 

Pickled 58 

"        Prairie,  Quails. 

etc ....   59 

"        Prairie  broiled.  59 
Prairie,  Fricas- 
seed     60 

Duck,  roasted 60 

Goose,  roasted 60 

Pigeon  Pie 61 

Pigeons,  roasted 60 

Turkey  or  Chicken  boiled  5  7 
Turkey      or       Chicken 

dressing 57 

Turkey      or       Chicken 

pressed 57 

Turkey      or       Chicken 
roasted 56 

GAME. 

Fawn,  roasted 63 

Game,  To  Keep 62 

Partridges,  boiled 63 

roasted 63 

Rabbits  and  Squirrels. .  62 

Venison 62 

GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES 

FOR    FISH    AND    MEAT. 

Butter,  drawn  or  melted  64 


PAGE. 

Gravies 64 

Sauces,  Anchovy 66 

Caper 66 

Celery 6$ 

"       Egg 65 

Mint 66 

"        Oyster 65 

"        Mayonaise  ....  66 

EGGS. 

Boiled 67 

Dropped 7a 

Elements  of 67 

Fried 69 

Omelet  Fried 68 

Plain 68 

Packing 70 

Poached 68 

Poached  a  la  Creme  ...  69 

Scrambled 67 

MILK,    BUTTER     AND 
CHEESE. 

Butter 72 

"     Making 74 

Cheese 75 

"     Making 76 

"     Cottage 77 

Milk 71 

MEAT  MAXIMS  ..  78 

HYGIENIC  EFFECT  OF 
ANIMAL   FOOD. 

Cheese 82 

Eggs 82 

Fat  Meats. 81 

Fish..., 81 

Lean  Meats  (  fresh) ....  80 


330 


INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Salt  Meats 81 

Shell  Fish 82 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus  {No.  1) 93 

"  ^       (M.*) 93 

{No.  3)  .  •  •  •    93 

Beans,  shelled 97 

string  or  snap   . .    96 

Beets,  boiled 96 

Broccoli  and  Eggs 91 

Cabbage,  boiled 90 

boiled  in  milk  90 

ladies' 90 

Cauliflower 91 

Carrots,  boiled 95 

Celery 98 

Corn,  green,  boiled. .. .    94 
"      stewed..   .   94 

"     Patties 95 

"     Hulled 94 

Cucumbers,  fried 92 

raw 92 

Elements  of 8t, 

Egg  Plant  fried 98 

Greens 99 

Maccaroni  with  Cheese.  100 

baked 99 

Mushrooms,  stewed   ...    99 

broiled..   .   99 

"  To  Select  .   98 

Onions,  boiled 94 

"        fried 94 

•Oyster  Plant(*S*?  Salsify.) 

Peas,  green 93 

Parsnips,  boiled 96 

fried 96 


PAGE. 

Parsnips,  stewed 96 

Potato  balls 88 

Potatoes,  boiled 88 

Potato  Cakes 89 

Potatoes,  fried 89 

old,  To  Cook..  89 

heated  in  milk  .  89 

"       mashed , .  88 

"       sweet 90 

Radishes 98 

Squash,  summer 97 

winter 97 

baked 97 

Salsify  or  Oyster  Plant.  95 

Succotash 95 

Spinage 95 

Sauer  Kraut 90 

Turnips,  mashed 92 

Tomatoes,  stewed 91 

scalloped 91 

raw 92 

VEGETABLE   ACIDS. 

Acetic  acid 103 

Citric  acid 102 

Malic  acid 102 

Oxalic  acid 103 

Pectic  acid 103 

Tartaric  acid 102 

FLAVOR'D  VINEGARS, 

Celery 104 

Horseradish 104 

Oyster 104 

Peach 104 

PICKLES. 
Bean 108 


INDEX. 


33* 


PAGE. 

Butternut  and  Walnut . .  107 
Cucumber  or  Gherkin  .  105 

Cucumber,  salt 106 

Cabbage,  red 107 

Cauliflower 106 

Chow-Chow 109 

Cucumber. .  109 
English  ....  no 

Mangoes 108 

Nasturtiums 108 

Peppers 106 

Tomato,  green 108 

SWEET    PICKLES. 

Cucumbers in 

Cantelope 1 1 1 

Damsons in 

Peaches 112 

Plums,  spiced 112 

Tomatoes in 

Watermelon  Rind 113 

CATSUPS. 

Currant 115 

Ever  Ready 117 

Gooseberry 116 

Horseradish 116 

Tomato 115 

Walnut 115 

Worcestershire,     Imita- 
tion  216 

SALADS. 

Celery 119 

Chicken,  Suggestions. ..  122 

Chicken 122 

Chicken  Salad  Dressing.  122 
Cold  Slaw 119 


PAGE. 

Dressing  for 121 

Horseradish 119 

Lettuce 119 

Lobster  (No.  1) 126 

Lobster  (No.  2) 121 

Made  Mustard 118 

Sydney  Smith's 118 

Tomato 120 

YEAST. 

Hop  Yeast  (ATo.  1) ....  126 
Hop  Yeast  (No.  2) ....  127 

Milk  or  Salt  Fusing 126 

Potato  Yeast  (No.  1)  . .  125 
Potato  Yeast  (No.  2)  . .  126 

Yeast  Cakes 127 

Yeast  without  Hops. ...  128 

BREAD. 

Bread,  buttermilk.     ...  131 

"      hop  yeast 131 

"      for  large  baking.  132 

"      milk 132 

milk  yeast  or  salt 

rising 126 

"      Patterson 132 

"      sponge 133 

Graham  (No.  i).i 33 
"      Graham  (No.  2).  134 
Biscuit,  baking  powder.  135 
"      butter-milk        or 

sour  milk. .  .  .  136 

"      cream 134 

"       cream  tartar.  ...  134 

"      raised  (No.  iV  .235 

raised  (No.  2).  .  135 

"      soda 135 


332 


INDEX. 


PAGE, 

Buns 136 

"     Easter 136 

"     plain 137 

Crackers 137 

Crumpets 138 

Gems,  Graham 143 

Muffins  {No.  1) 141 

{No.i) 141 

buttermilk 141 

sour  milk 141 

corn  meal 143 

Graham 142 

Graham  raised.  142 

rice. 142 

Puffs 137 

Rolls  {No.  1) 138 

"     {No.  2) 139 

"     French  {No.  1)  ..139 
"     French  {No.  2)  ..139 

"     Graham 143 

Rusk 140 

Rusk  sweet 140 

Strawberry  shortcake.  ..134 
Sally  Lunn  {No.  1) ....  140 

Toast,  French 143 

"      milk 144 

Wafers 138 


CORN    BREAD. 


Brown  bread 

Boston  brown  bread. 

Brown  bread,  raised  . 

Graham  and  Indian . . 

Johnny  cake  {No.  1 ) . 
{No.  2) 
{No.  3) 

Steamed  brown  bread 


145 
145 
146 

145 
144 
144 
144 
145 


PAGE. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES  AND 
WAFFLES. 

Cakes,buckwheat(iV<?.i)  154 

"   bread 150 

"   green  corn 151 

"      rice 152 

Griddle  cakes  {No.  1) . .  152 
"  .         {No.  2)..  153 

Waffles,  rice 153 

"      risen 153 

"      quick 153 

FRITTERS. 
Fritters 156 

•;:  ••••• A$ 

eggplant 155 

"      snow 155 

VEGETABLE     MAX- 
IMS  157 

HYGIENIC  EFFECTS 
OF  VEGETABLES. 

Beans  and  Peas 159 

Buckwheat 159 

Carrots 158 

Fruits 159 

Indian  Corn 158 

Oats 158 

Parsnips 158 

Rye 159 

Squashes 158 

Turnips 158 

SUGAR ..160 

CAKE. 

Almond 172 


INDEX. 


333 


PAGE 

Citron 158 

Chocolate 168 

Cream 170 

Coffee 172 

Cocoanut 176 

Currant 177 

Cornstarch 179 

Delicate 168 

Feather 167 

Fruit. 173 

Fruit,  everyday 173 

Fruit,  farmer's 174 

Fruit  and  nut 174 

Gold ...167 

Hickory  nut  {No.  1) . .  .171 
Hickory  nut  {No.  2). .  .171 
Ice  Cream 170 

Jelly 177 

Lemon 165 

Marble  {No.  1) ....177 

Marble  {No.  2) 178 

Myrtle's 176 

Orange  {No.  1) 164 

Orange  {No.  2) 165 

One,  two,  three,  four. .  .171 

Pound 172 

Plain 175 

Pork 179 

Ribbon 166 

Raspberry  roll. , « 180 

Sea  foam 165 

Silver 167 

Spice 176 

Sponge  {No.  1) 175 

Sponge  {No.  2) 175 

Snow  drift 179 

Tri-color 167 


PAGE. 

Tea 180 

Watermelon 169 

Wedding 173 

White 177 

ICING. 

Icing  {No.  1 ) 180 

Icing  {No.  2 181 

COOKIES  AND  SMALL  CAKES. 

Cookies 182 

"     ammonia 182 

"     rich 181 

Cocoanut  drops 182 

Kisses 183 

Macaroons 183 

Ring  jumbles 183 

GINGERBREAD     AND     SNAPS. 

Breakfast  cookies 186 

Ginger  snaps  {No.  1)  . .  185 
Ginger  snaps  {No.  2)  .  .185 

Gingerbread,  hard 184 

sugar.  . .  .184 

soft 184 

sponge. . . 185 

CRULLERS  AND  DOUGHNUTS 

Crullers 187 

Doughnuts  {No.  1) 186 

{No.  2) 186 

raised 187 

SWEETMEAT  MAX- 
IMS  188 

Measures 189 

PIES. 

Apple  custard 199 

Apple  {No.  1) 198 

Apple  {No.  2) 198 


334 


INDEX, 


PAGE. 

Blackberry 199 

Cherry 199 

Cocoanut ...  200 

Chocolate  custard 200 

Custard 200 

Cornstarch 201 

Cranberry 201 

Cream 201 

Currant 199 

Gooseberry  green 199 

Lemon  (No.  1) 202 

"      (No.  2) 202 

"      (No.  3) 202 

."      (^.4) ..203 

Mince 197 

Mock  Mince 198 

Orange 203 

Pie  Crust  (No.  1) 196 

Pie  Crust  (No.  2) 196 

Purl  Paste,  French. ...  197 

Peach 203 

Plum 199 

Potato,  sweet 200 

Pumpkin 204 

Raspberry 199 

Rhubarb 199 

Strawberry 204 

Squash  (See  Pumpkin) . .  204 

TARTLETS. 

Lemon  Tart  Filling. .  * . 204 

Orange 204 

Raspberry  Cream 205 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple  Dumpling,baked  .222 
Apple  Dumpling,boiled.  222 
Apple  and  Tapioca. . .  .213 


PAGE. 

Arrowroot 220 

Black 210 

Bird's  Nest 212 

Bread 213 

Berry 215 

Boston  Lemon 217 

Boston  Orange 217 

Batter 223 

Cracker 211 

Cocoanut 215 

Cornstarch,  boiled 220 

Cornstarch,  baked 220 

Cottage 221 

Custard,  baked 224 

Cracked  Wheat 225 

Delicate 222 

English  Plum  (No.  i)..2o8 
English  Plum  (No.  2).  .209 

Farina ,  .214 

Fruit  Valise ....215 

Food 219 

German  Puffs 221 

Graham 226 

Hen's  Nest 212 

Hominy 226 

Hasty 226 

Indian 223 

Indian  and  Suet 223 

Lemon 216 

Minute 225 

Orange 216 

Oatmeal 225 

Porcupine 209 

Plum  (No.  1) 210 

Plum  (No.  2) 211 

Plum,  Thanksgiving.  ...224 
Pineapple 219 


INDEX. 


335 


PAGE, 

Queen  of  Puddings.  ..210 

Rice 217 

Rice  with  Eggs 218 

Rice  and  Tapioca 218 

Rice,  boiled 218 

Sago 213 

Snow 221 

Steam 222 

Tapioca 214 

Velvet 219 

PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Cream,  sweetened 228 

Foaming 230 

Hard 227 

Jelly 228 

Lemon 227 

Plain 227 

Sauce  for  English  Plum.229 

Sauce  for  Velvet 228 

Sauce  for  all  kinds 229 

Wine 229 

FANCY  DISHES  FOR 
DESSERT. 

Blanc  Mange,cornstarch228 
Blanc  Mange,  moss ....  239 
Blanc  Mange,  velvet. .  .238 

Custard,  boiled 235 

Charlotte  Russe 235 

Cream,  Lemon 239 

Cream,  Spanish 240 

Cream,  Tapioca 239 

Floating  Island 235 

General  Directibns 235 

Jelly,  Wine 240 

Jelly,  Calf's  Foot 241 

Jelly,  Lemon 242 


dAGE. 

Jelly,  Orange 241 

Lemon  Snow 237 

Meringues 236 

Orange  Souffle 237 

Raspberry  Trifle 236 

Stained  Froth 238 

Whipped  Syllabubs 236 

ICE  CREAM. 

Chocolate 247 

Ice  Cream  (No.  1)..  ..23d 
Ice  Cream  (No.  2)  ....  247 
Lemon  (See  Orange) . . . 

Orange 248 

Pineapple 248 

Raspberry 248 

Strawberry 248 

Self-Freezing,Directions 
for 246 

ICES. 

Currant  and  Raspberry. 250 

Lemon 249 

Orange 249 

Strawberry 249 

SAUCES,     PRESERVES 

AND    FRUIT    JELLIES. 

Apples.. -253 

Sweet(*S^  Quinces) 

Apple  Butter 258 

Apples  steamed 253 

Citron 252 

Cherries 253 

Cherries,  dried 254 

Cherry  Sauce 255 

Cider  Apple  Sauce. .  .  .254 
Crab  Apples 254 


336 


INDEX. 


Cranberry  Sauce 254 

Currant 255 

Damsons . . , 256 

Egg  Plums 256 

Figs 257 

Gages,  green 256 

Jam,  Blackberry 259 

Jam,  Grape 260 

Jam,  Gooseberry 260 

Jam,  Raspberry 259 

Jam,  Strawberry 259 

Marmalade,Crab  apple. 262 
Grape. . . . .264 

Peach 263 

Pear 263 

Sweetapple.262 
Quince  .  . .  263 
Wild  Plum. 263 

Orange  Peel 257 

Peaches 252 

Peach  Butter 257 

Pears 252 

Pears,  baked 253 

Pineapple 253 

Quince  and  sweet  apple  .258 

Strawberries 255 

Tomato,  Ripe 255 

.Watermelon  Rind 258 

FRUIT    JELLIES. 

Apple 262 

Blackberry. 260 

Currant 260 

Curarnt 261 

Crab  Apple 261 

Green  Grape 262 

Quince 261 

Raspberry  and  Currant.  262 


PAGE: 

Strawberry 260 

Wild  Plum 262 

CANNED  FRUIT. 

Berries 265 

Pears 266 

Peaches 265 

Plums 266 

Pineapple 265 

Tomato 266 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Boiling  Sugar 271 

Clarification  of  Sugar.. 271 
Coloring  and  Flavoring.  272 

Candy,  Cream 274 

Candy,  Lemon 274 

Candy,  Molasses,  white. 2 73 

Candy,  Nut 272 

Caramels 274 

Caramels,  Coffee 275 

Caramels,  Chocolate. .  .275 
Caramels,  Cream  Choc- 
olate  276 

Caramels,  Cream  Coffee. 2 75 

Caramels,  Lemon 275 

j  Tablets',  Cinnamon. . .  .276 

Tablets,  Ginger 276 

Tablets,  Ginger 276 

Tablets,  Vanilla 276 

Taffy,  Almond 273 

Taffy,  Everton 273 

DRINKS. 

Beer,  Hop 285 

Beer,  Spring 286 

Beer,  Spruce  and  Bone- 
set 285 


INDEX. 


:>jj 


PAGE. 

Beer,  Jamaica  Ginger.  .285 
Chocolate,  to  make.  . .  .284 

Coffee 281 

Coffee,  to  make 284 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate.  .283 
Cocoa  Nibs  or  Shells.   .285 

EggNogg 286 

Lemonade 286 

Orangeade 286 

Shrub,  Blackberry 289 

Shrub,  Raspberry  (No.  1 )  289 
Shrub, Raspberry(i\fo.2)  289 
Sherbet,  Strawberry. .   .290 

Syrup,  Blackberry 289 

Tea 278 

Tea,  to  make 284 

Wine,  Blackberry 287 

Wine,  Cherry 287 

Wine,  Elderberry 288 

Wine,  Raisin 287 

Wine,  Rhine 288 

HYGIENE  OF  DRINKS. 

Alcoholic 291 

Beer 291 

Cocoa 221 

Light  Wines 291 

SICK  ROOM. 

Arrowroot 293 

Beef  Tea 294 

Broth,  Chicken 294 

Broth,  Mutton 294 

Farina 293 

Gruel,  Barley 293 

Gruel,  Flour 292 

Gruel,  Corn   Meal 292 


PAGE. 

Gruel,    Oat    Meal    (See 

Com  Meal) 292 

Gruel,  Rice  Flour 292 

Jelly,  Chicken 294 

Jelly,  Rice 293 

Milk  Punch ,  .296 

Milk  Porridge 292 

Water,  Apple 295 

Water,  Jelly 295 

Water,  Toast 295 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Antidotes  for  poisons.  .  .310 
Burns   and   Scalds,  cure 

for 300 

Crackers  : 308 

Cement    for    Wood    or 

Stone 310 

Cleanse  Lard  or  Butter.308 
Clean  Furniture 308 

Kid  Gloves 300 

Alpaca...    . 

Black  Silk  . . 


..301 

•  -301 
Straw  Matting.  .  .302 

Flat  Irons 304 

Pots,  Kettles  and 

Tins 305 

Hair  Brushes.  .  .  .306 
or  wash  Silk  ...  .301 
Crape,  wrinkled,  to  Re- 
new  302 

Camphor  Ice 303 

Deodorizer,  best 309 

Earth  for  House  Plants. 300 

Feathers,  to  curl 302 

Fruit  Stains, to  remove.  .302 

Grease,  to  remove 303 

Glycerine,  prepared ....  300 


33* 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Goldfish,  to  keep 309 

Ironrust  and  Ink  stains, 

to  remove 302 

Ironmould,  to  remove  .  .302 

Make  Hens  Lay 310 

Paint   from   Glass,  to  re- 
move   302 

Perspiration 304 

Putty  or  Paint,to  soften. 3 10 
Papering    Whitewashed ' 

Walls 309 

Remove  Bottle  Stoppers.310 
Remove    Discolorations 

from  Bruises 303 

Rats  and   Mice,  to   de- 
stroy   '.   303 

Sugar  to  clear 308 

Sink  or  Drain,  to  purify.309  | 

Sealing  Wax 310 

Sudden  Hoarseness. . .  .303 

Stove  Polish 304 

Suet,  to  keep. 308 

Starch,  cold 306 

Starch,  boiled 305 

Soap,  Patent 306 

Soap  made  with  Potash. 30 7 
Soap,  White  Toilet ....  330 

Tar,  to  remove 307 

Tooth  Powder  (No.  1).  .304 
Tooth  Powder  (JVo.  2) .  307 


PAGE. 

Tooth  Wash 308 

Velvet,  to  restore 301 

ARRANGING  THE 
TABLE. 

Shape  and  Size  of  Table  3 1 1 

Table  Linen 311 

Table  Ornaments 312 

SERVING   FRUITS. 

Mixed  Fruits 312 

Peaches 312 

Watermelon 312 

COMBINATION    OF 
DISHES. 

Beef  and  Veal 313 

Chickens 314 

Corned  Beef 313 

Fish 3I3 

Game 314 

Lamb  and  Mutton 314 

Pork 314 

Roast  Goose 314 

Soups 313 

Turkeys 313 

Serving  the  Dinner 315 

TABLE     ETI- 
QUETTE  316 

BILLS  OF  FARE  .  .342 


tf 

■ft 

$ 

^. 

/ 

+* 

s0  o 


1  ^\li 

V-     > 


,>v 


*0*      ^..,      *o        8I1       N>V 


J*X     <  °  K  c  «    *o    '  '  *  s     /     .  ■     •  ,   <c, 


