► 


SEVENTY-FIVE 


RECEIPTS, 


roit 


PASTRY,  CAKES,  AXJD  SWEETMEATS. 


BY  A  LADY  OF  PHILADELPHIA. 


VJ  U 


BOSTON  : 

Ml  Mini.    AND    FRANCIS,  NO.   128,  WASHINGTON -STREKT, 
C.  S.  FRANCIS .  BROADW  AY,  NEW-IUKK. 

1828. 


DISTRICT  OF  MASSACHUSETTS,  TO  WIT  '. 

District  Clerk's  Office. 

Be  it  remembered,  that  on  the  seventeenth  clay  of  January,  A.I). 
1C28,  in  the  fifty-second  year  of  the  Independence  of  theUnited  States  of 
America,  Mijnroe  &  Francis,  of  the  said  district,  have  deposited  in 
this  Office,  the  Title  of  a  Book,  the  right  Ivhereof  they  claim  as  Pro- 
prietors, in  the  words  following",  to  wit' 

"  Seventy-five  Receipts  for  Pastry,  Cakes,  and  Sweetmeats.  By 
a  Lady  of  Philadelphia." 

In  conformity  to  the  act  of  the  Congress  of  the  United  Stales,  enti- 
tled, "  An  act  for  the  encouragement  of  learning,  by  securing-  the  cop- 
ies of  maps,  charts,  and  books,  to  the  authors  and  proprietors  of  such 
copies,  during  the  times  therein  mentioned jw  and  also  to  an  act  enti- 
d  I,  An  act  supplementary  to  an  act,  entitled,  an  act  for  the  encour- 
ageoiejlt  of  learning  ,  by  securing  the  copies  of  maps,  charts  and  books 
to  tiie  authors  and  proprietors  of  such  copies  during  the  times  therein 
ii"  utioned  ;  and  extending  die  benefits  thereof  to  the  arts  of  designing', 
engraving  and  etching  historical  and  other  prints/' 

JOHN  W.  DAVIS,  Clerk  of  the  District  of  Massachusetts. 


WEIGHT  AM)  MEASURE. 


As  all  families  arc  not  provided  with  scales  and 
weights,  referring  to  the  ingredients  generally  used  in 
I takm  and  pastry,  we  subjoin  a  list  of  weights  and 
measures. 

WEIGHT  AND  MEASURE. 
Wheat  flour       -       -       one  pound  is  one  quart. 

Indian  meal  -  -  one  pound,  two  ounces,  is  one  quart. 
Butter — when  soft  -  one  pound,  one  ounce,  is  one  quart. 
Loaf-sugar,  broken  one  pound  is  one  quart. 

White  su^a-,  powdered  one  pound,  one  ounce,  is  one  quar«. 
Best  brown  sugar       -       one  pound,  two  ounces,  one  quart. 

Eggs         -  ten  eggs  are       -       -          one  pound. ' 


LIQUID  MEASURE. 

Sixteen  large  table-spoonfuls  are        -  half  a  pint. 

Eight  large  table-spoonfuls  arc    -  one  gill. 

Four  large  table-spoonfuls  are     -  half  a  gill. 

A  common-sized  tumbler  holds  ...  half  a  pint. 

A  common-sized  wine-glass         -  half  a  gill. 

Allowing  for  accidental  differences  in  the  quality, 
freshness,  dryness,  and  moisture  of  the  articles,  we  bo- 
lieve  t!  :s  comparison  between  weight  and  measure,  to 
be  as  nearly  correct  as  possible. 


ERRATA. 

Page  9.  line  5.  for  il  ore  soiip-pl'ite1-  read  "  one  soi'p-plalc  pit '." 
P.  20.  5th  line  from  boUom,  for      Put  long  slits'''  read  "  Cut  long 
ulits." 

P.  08.  7th  i.  from  bot.  for  "Jive  ounces  of  butter"  read  "  sir  ounces." 
P.  78.  I.  3.  fv  •  "  lay  them  on  a  brass  or  bell-metal  kettle'' read  u  lay 
ibera  in  a  brats  or  bell-metal  kettle." 

P.  81.  1.  12.  lor  "  set  Uiem  in  boiling  water"  read  il  set  it.  in  boiling 


FAMILY  BOOKS. 

At  the  Bookstore  of  the  publishers  of  this  Work  may  be  found  the 
following  excellent  books  for  families.  Y  6 

The  COOKS  ORACLE  :  containing  Receipts  for  plain  Cookery 
™£»  IT'  ec?m,n"fal  P'a,"  f°'"  PrivateBfamilies  :  also,  Ve  art  of  com-' 
posing  the  most  simple  and  the  most  highly  finished  Broths  GraviS 
Soups  feauces  Store  Sauces,  and  Flavouring  Essences  The  quan-' 
*Llf*  ,Ar"cle's  accurately  stated  by  "weight  and  measure^  the 
whole  bemg  the  resu  t  ol I  Actual  Experiments,  instituted  in  the  KUch- 
Z  It  P^s'?'a\  Ms™*  u  He  Juki."  Second  American  from 
the  last  London  Edition,  which  is  almost  entirely  re-written  W  ith 
an  Appendix,  by  the  American  publishers.  Marketing  Tables  &c 
P  rha?e  H  SERVANT'S  DIRECTORY,  or  a  Monitor  for 
aZl  lr  *am,l,t/\:  ™»P>"'sing  hmts  on  the  arrangement  and  perform- 
a  ,oe  of  tenants  Work,  with  general  rules  for  sating  out  Tables  and 
Sideboards  ,„l,rst  order  The  art  of  Waiting,,,  all  its  branches ;  and 
likewise  how  to  conduct  Large  and  Small  Parties  with  order:  with 

fw W rCClT/n-  Plar"'?  °r'rTal>le  a"  k-ds  of  Join J/F  ^h, 
r£l'  »  '  "'  fu"  lns!r,uol'ous  ™r  cleaning  Plate,  Brass.  Steel 
Glass,  Mahogany;  and  likewise,  all  kinds  of  Patent  and  Common 
Lamps  :  Observations  on  Servants'  Behaviour  to  their  Employers" 
and  upwards  of  100  various  and  useful  Receipts,  chiefly  compiled  for 
the  useot  House  Servants,  and  identically  made  to  suit  the  Manners 
and Customs  of  Fam,l,cs  ,n  the  United  States.  By  Robert  Robert? 
M  ith  friendly  Ady.ce  to  Cooks  and  Heads  of  families,  and  complete 
Directions  how  to  burn  Lehigh  Coal,  &c.  &c.  "-onipiete 


PREFACE. 


The  following  Receipts  for  Pastry,  Cakes, 
and  Sweetmeats,  are  all  original,  and  have 
been  used  by  the  author  and  many  of  her 
friends  with  uniform  success.  They  are 
drawn  up  in  a  style  so  plain  and  minute,  as 
to  be  perfectly  intelligible  to  servants,  and 
persons  of  the  most  moderate  capacity.  All 
the  ingredients,  with  their  proper  quantities, 
are  enumerated  in  a  list  at  the  head  of  each 
receipt,  a  plan  which  will  greatly  facilitate 
the  business  of  procuring  and  preparing  the 
requisite  articles. 

There  is  frequently  much  difficulty  in  fol- 
lowing directions  in  English  and  French 
Cookery  Books,  not  only  from  their  want 
of  explicitness,  but  from  the  difference  in  the 
fuel,  fire-places,  and  cooking  utensils  gener- 
ally used  in  Europe  and  America;  and  many 
of  the  European  receipts  are  so  complicated 
and  laborious,  that  our  female  cooks  are 
afraid  to  undertake  the  arduous  task  of 
making  any  thing  from  them. 


iv 


The  receipts  in  this  little  book  are,  in 
every  sense  of  the  word,  American  ;  but  the 
writer  flatters  herself  that  (if  exactly  follow- 
ed) the  articles  produced  from  them  will  not 
be  found  inferior  to  any  of  a  similar  descrip- 
tion made  in  the  European  manner.  Expe- 
rience has  proved,  that  pastry,  cakes,  &c. 
prepared  precisely  according  to  these  direc- 
tions will  not  fail  to  be  excellent  ;  but  where 
economy  is  expedient,  a  portion  of  the  sea- 
soning, that  is,  the  spice,  wine,  brandy,  rose- 
water,  essence  of  lemon,  &c.  may  be  omit- 
ted without  any  essential  deviation  of  fla- 
vour, or  difference  of  appearance  ;  retaining, 
however,  the  given  proportions  of  eggs,  but- 
ter, sugar,  and  flour. 

But  if  done  at  home,  and  by  a  person 
that  can  be  trusted,  it  will  be  proved,  on 
trial,  that  any  of  these  articles  may  be  made 
in  the  best  and  most  liberal  manner  at  one 
half  of  the  cost  of  the  same  articles  suppli- 
ed by  a  confectioner.  And  "they  will  be 
found  particularly  useful  to  families  that  live 
in  the  country  or  in  small  towns,  where  no- 
thing of  the  kind  is  to  be  purchased. 
January  15th,  1828. 


CONTENTS. 


PART  THE  FIRST. 


Preliminary  Remarks,  • 

7 

Puff  Paste,  - 

Common  Paste,  - 

12 

Mince  Pies,  - 

-  13 

Plum  Pudding,  - 

14 

Lemon  Pudding, 

-  15 

Orange  Pudding,  - 

17 

Cocoa  Nut  Pudding, 

-  18 

Almond  Pudding,  - 

19 

A  Cheesecake, 

-  ib. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding,  - 

21 

Pumpkin  Pudding,  - 

-  ib. 

Gooseberry  Pudding,  - 

22 

Baked  Apple  Pudding, 

-  23 

Fruit  Pies.  - 

23 

Oyster  Pie,  - 

-  25 

BeefSteak  Pie,  - 

26 

Indian  Pudding,  - 

-  27 

Batter  Pudding,  - 

28 

Bread  Pudding, 

-     .    -         -  29 

Rice  Pudding,  - 

ib. 

vi 


CONTENTS. 


Boston  Pudding-,  -  -         -         -         -  -  30 

Fritters,            -  -  -         -         -         -  31 

Fine  Custards,  -  -         -         -         -  -  ib. 

Plain  Custards,  ------  32 

Rice  Custard,  -  -         -         -         -  -  33 

Cold  Custards,    -  -  -                   -         -  34 

Curds  and  Whey,  -  -         -         -  -  ib. 

A  Trifle,           ......  35 

Whipt  Cream,  -  ....  36 

Floating  Island,  -  -  37 

Ice  Cream,   -  -  -         -         -         -  -  ib. 

Calves-Feet  Jelly,  .....  38 

Blancmange,  -  -         -         -         -  40 


PART  THE  SECOND. 

General  Directions,  -         -  -         -         -  45 

Queen  Calfe,     -         -         -  -         -  47 

Pound  Cake,          -         -  -         -         -  -  48 

Black  Cake,  or  Plum  Cake,      -  ...  50 

Sponge  Cake,         -         -  -         -         -  51 

Almond  Cake,    ------  52 

French  Almond  Cake,        -  -         -         -  -  54 

Maccaroons,      -         -         -  -         -         -  55 

Apees,         -         -         -  -         -  -56 

Jumbles,  57 

Kisses,        -         -         -  -         -         -  -58 

Spanish  Buns,    ------  ib. 

Rusk,          -.-  -         -         .  -60 

Indian  Pound  Cake,     -         -  -         -         -  61 

Cup  Cake,  ib 


CONTENTS.  Vii 

Loaf  Cake,        ------  62 

Sugar  Biscuits,        -          -          -          -          -  ib. 

Milk  Biscuits,     ------  63 

Butter  Biscuits,       -         -         -         -         -  64 

Gingerbread  Nuts,        -----  65 

Common  Gingerbread,        -         -         -         -  -  66 

Lafayette  Gingerbread,  -----  67 

A  Dover  Cake,       -         -         -         -         -  -  68 

Crullers,           -         -         -         -  69 

Dough  Nuts,           -         -         -         -         -  -  70 

Waffles,           -   ib. 

Soft  Muffins,  71 

Indian  Batter  Cakes,     -----  72 

Flannel  Cakes,        -         -         -         -         -  -  ib. 

Rolls,     -         -         -    .     -                  -  73 


PART  THE  THIRD. 


General  Directions,            -         -         -         -  -  77 

Apple  Jelly,      ------  78 

Red  Currant  Jelly,  -         -         -         -         -  -  ib. 

Black  Currant  Jelly,      -----  79 

Gooseberry  Jelly,    -         -         -         -         -  -  80 

Wild  Grape  Jelly,        -----  ib. 

Peach  Jelly,  -------  81 

Preserved  Quinces,       -----  ib. 

Preserved  Pippins,   -         -         -         -         -  -  82 

Preserved  Peaches,       -----  83 

Preserved  Crab  Apples,      -         -         -         -  -  84 

Preserved  Plums,         -----  ib. 


Vlll 


CONTENTS. 


Preserved  Strawberries, 
Preserved  Cranberries,  - 
Preserved  Pumpkin, 
Preserved  Pine-Apple,  - 
Raspberry  Jam, 


PART  THE  FIRST. 


PASTRY. 


PRELIMINARY  REMARKS. 

In  making  pastry  or  cakes,  it  is  best  to  begin  by 
weighing  out  the  ingredients,  sifting  the  flour, 
pounding  and  sifting  the  sugar  and  spice,  washing 
the  butter,  and  preparing  the  fruit. 

Sugar  can  be  powTdered  by  pounding  it  in  a  large 
mortar,  or  by  rolling  it  on  a  paste-board  with  a 
rolling-pin.  It  should  be  made  very  fine  and  al- 
ways sifted. 

All  sorts  of  spice  should  be  pounded  in  a  mortar 
except  nutmeg,  which  it  is  better  to  grate.  If  spice 
is  wanted  in  large  quantities,  it  may  be  ground  in  a 
mill. 

The  butter  should  always  be  fresh  and  very  good. 
Wash  it  in  cold  water  before  you  use  it,  and  then 
make  it  up  with  your  hands  into  hard  lumps,  squeez- 
ing the  water  well  out. 

If  the  butter  and  sugar  are  to  be  stirred  together, 
always  do  that  before  the  eggs  are  beaten,  as,  (un- 
less they  are  kept  too  wrarm)  the  butter  and  sugar 
will  not  be  injured  by  standing  awhile.  For  stir- 
ring them,  nothing  is  so  convenient  as  a  round  hick- 
ory stick  about  a  foot  and  a  half  long,  and  some- 
what flattened  at  one  end. 


a 


PASTRY. 


The  eggs  should  not  be  beaten  till  after  all  the 
other  ingredients  are  ready,  as  they  will  fall  very 
soon.  If  the  whites  and  yolks  are  to  be  beaten 
separately,  do  the  whites  first,  as  they  will  stand 
longer. 

Eggs  should  be  beaten  in  a  broad  shallow  pan 
spreading  wide  at  the  top.  Butter  and  sugar 
should  be  stirred  in  a  deep  pan  with  straight  sides 

Break  every  egg  by  itself,  in  a  saucer,  before 
you  put  it  into  the  pan,  that  in  case  there  should  be 
any  bad  ones,  they  may  not  spoil  the  others. 

Eggs  are  beaten  most  expeditiously  with  rods 
A  small  quantity  of  white  of  egg  may  be  beaten 
with  a  knife,  or  a  three-pronged  fork. 


There  can  be  no  positive  rules  as  to  the  exact 
time  of  baking  each  article.  Skill  in  baking  is  the 
result  of  practice,  attention,  and  experience.  Much 
of  course,  depends  on  the  state  of  the  fire,  and  on 
the  size  of  the  things  to  be  baked,  and  something 
on  the  thickness  of  the  pans  or  dishes. 

If  you  bake  in  a  stove,  put  some  bricks  in  the 
oven  part  to  set  the  pans  or  plates  on,  atid  to  tem- 
per the  heat  at  the  bottom.  Large  sheets  of  iron, 
without  sides,  will  be  found  very  useful  for  small 
cakes,  and  to  put  under  the  pans  or  plates. 


PASTRY. 


9 


PUFF  PASTE. 

Half  a  pound  and  two  ounces  of  siAed  flour. 
Half  a  pound  of  ihe  best  fresh  butter — washed. 
A  little  cold  water. 

This  will  make  puff-paste  for  two  puddings,  or  for  one  soup-plate, 
or  four  small  shells. 


Weigh  half  a  pound  and  two  ounces  of  flour,  and 
sift  it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  large  deep  dish. 
Take  out  about  one  fourth  of  the  flour,  and  lay  it 
aside  on  one  corner  of  your  paste-board,  to  roll  and 
sprinkle  with. 

Wash,  in  cold  water,  half  a  pound  of  the  best 
fresh  butter.  Squeeze  it  hard  with  your  hands,  and 
make  it  up  into  a  round  lump.  Divide  it  in  four 
equal  parts  ;  lay  them  on  one  side  of  your  paste- 
board, and  have  ready  a  glass  of  cold  water. 

Cut  one  of  the  four  pieces  of  butter  into  the  pan 
of  flour.  Cut  it  as  small  as  possible.  Wet  it,  grad- 
ually, with  a  very  little  water  (too  much  water  will 
make  it  tough)  and  mix  it  well  with  the  point  of  a 
large  case-knife.  Do  not  touch  it  with  your  hands. 
When  the  dough  gets  into  a  lump,  sprinkle  on  the 
middle  of  the  board  some  of  the  flour  that  you  laid 
aside,  and  lay  the  dough  upon  it,  turning  it  out  of 
the  pan  with  the  knife. 

Rub  the  rolling-pin  with  flour,  and  sprinkle  a  lit- 
tle on  tha  lump  of  paste.  Roll  it  out  thin  quickly 
and  evenly,  pressing  on  the  rolling-pin  very  lightly. 
Then  take  the  second  of  the  four  pieces  of  butter, 
and,  with  the  point  of  your  knife,  stick  it  in  little 
bits  at  equal  distances  all  over  the  sheet  of  paste. 
Sprinkle  on  some  flour,  and  fold  up  the  dough. 


10 


PASTRY. 


Flour  the  paste-board  and  rolling-pin  again  ;  throw 
a  little  flour  on  the  paste  and  roll  it  out  a  second 
time.  Stick  the  third  piece  of  butter  all  over  it 
in  little  bits.  Throw  on  some  flour,  fold  up  the 
paste,  sprinkle  a  little  more  flour  on  the  dough,  and 
on  the  rolling-pin,  and  roll  it  out  a  third  time,  al- 
ways pressing  on  it  lightly.  Stick  it  over  with  the 
fourth  and  last  piece  of  butter.  Throw  on  a  little 
more  flour,  fold  up  the  paste  and  then  roll  it  out  in 
a  large  round  sheet.  Cut  ofF  the  sides,  so  as  to 
make  the  sheet  of  a  square  form,  and  lay  the  slips 
of  dough  upon  the  square  sheet.  Fold  it  up  with 
the  small  pieces  or  trimmings,  in  the  inside.  Score 
or  notch  it  a  little  with  the  knife  ;  lay  it  on  a  plate 
and  set  it  away  in  a  cool  place,  but  not  where  it 
can  freeze,  as  that  will  make  it  heavy.  Having 
made  the  paste,  prepare  and  mix  your  pudding  or 
pie.  When  the  mixture  is  finished,  bring  out  your 
paste,  flour  the  board  and  rolling-pin,  and  roll  it 
out  with  a  short  quick  stroke,  and  pressing  the  roll- 
ing-pin rather  harder  than  while  you  were  putting 
the  butter  in.  If  the  paste  rises  in  blisters,  it  will 
be  light,  unless  spoiled  in  baking. 

Then  cut  the  sheet  in  half,  fold  up  each  piece 
and  roll  them  out  once  more,  separately,  in  round 
sheets  the  size  of  your  plate.  Press  on  rather 
harder,  but  not  too  hard.  Roll  the  sheets  thinnest 
in  the  middle  and  thickest  at  the  edges.  If  intend- 
ed for  puddings,  lay  them  in  buttered  soup-plates, 
and  trim  them  evenly  round  the  edges.  If  the 
edges  do  not  appear  thick  enough,  you  may  take 
the  trimmings,  put  them  all  together,  roll  them  out, 
and  having  cut  them  in  slips  the  breadth  of  the  rim 
of  the  plate,  lay  them  all  round  to  make  the  paste 
thicker  at  the  edges,  joining  them  nicely  and  evenly, 
as  every  patch  or  crack  will  appear  distinctly  when 


PASTRY. 


11 


baked.  Notch  the  rim  handsomely  with  a  very- 
sharp  knife.  Fill  the  dish  with  the  mixture  of  the 
pudding,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven.  The 
paste  should  be  of  a  light  brown  colour.  If  the 
oven  is  too  slow,  it  will  be  soft  and  clammy  ;  if  too 
quick,  it  will  not  have  time  to  rise  as  high  as  it 
ought  to  do. 

In  making  the  best  puff-paste,  try  to  avoid  using 
more  flour  to  sprinkle  and  roll  with,  than  the  small 
portion  which  you  have  laid  aside  for  that  purpose 
at  the  beginning.  If  you  make  the  dough  too  soft 
at  first,  by  using  too  much  water,  it  will  be  sticky, 
and  require  more  flour,  and  will  eventually  be 
tough  when  baked.  Do  not  put  your  hands  to  it, 
as  their  warmth  will  injure  it.  Use  the  knife  in- 
stead. Always  roll  from  you  rather  than  to  you, 
and  press  lightly  on  the  rolling-pin,  except  at 
the  last. 

It  is  difficult  to  make  puff-paste  in  the  summer, 
unless  in  a  cellar,  or  very  cool  room,  and  on  a  mar- 
ble table.  The  butter  should,  if  possible,  be  wash- 
ed the  night  before,  and  kept  covered  with  ice  till 
you  use  it  next  day.  The  water  should  have  ice  in 
it,  and  the  butter  should  be  iced  as  it  sets  on  the 
paste-board.  After  the  paste  is  mixed,  it  should 
be  put  in  a  covered  dish,  and  set  in  cold  water  till 
you  are  ready  to  give  it  the  last  rolling.  With  all 
these  precautions  to  prevent  its  being  heavy,  it  will 
not  rise  as  well,  or  be  in  any  respect  as  good  as  in 
cold  weather. 


12 


PASTRY. 


COMMON  PASTE  FOR  PIES. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  sifted  flour. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter — washed. 

This  will  make  one  large  pie,  or  two  small  ones. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  pan.  Put  the  butter  into  two 
equal  parts.  Put  one  half  of  the  butter  into  the 
flour,  and  cut  it  up  as  small  as  possible.  Mix  it 
well  with  the  flour,  wetting  it  gradually  writh  a  little 
cold  water. 

Spread  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  take  the 
lump  of  paste  out  of  the  pan,  flour  your  rolling-pin, 
and  roll  out  the  paste  into  a  large  sheet.  Then 
stick  it  over  with  the  remaining  half  of  the  butter 
in  small  pieces,  and  laid  at  equal  distances.  Throw 
on  a  little  flour,  fold  up  the  sheet  of  paste,  flour  it 
slightly,  and  roll  it  out  again.  Then  fold  it  up, 
and  cut  it  in  half  or  in  four,  according  to  the  size 
of  your  pies.  Roll  it  out  into  round  sheets  the  size 
of  your  pie-plates,  pressing  rather  harder  on  the 
rolling-pin. 

Butter  your  pie-plates,  lay  on  your  under  crust, 
and  trim  the  edge.  Fill  the  dish  with  the  ingredi- 
ents of  which  the  pie  is  composed,  and  lay  on  the 
lid,  in  which  you  must  prick  some  holes,  or  cut  a 
small  slit  in  the  top.  Crimp  the  edges  with  a  sharp 
knife. 

Heap  up  the  ingredients  so  that  the  pie  will  be 
highest  in  the  middle. 

Some  think  it  makes  common  paste  more  crisp 
and  light  to  beat  it  hard  on  both  sides  with  the 


PASTRY. 


13 


rolling-pin,  after  you  give  it  the  first  rolling,  when 
all  the  butter  is  in. 

If  the  butter  is  very  fresh,  you  may  mix  with  the 
flour  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt. 


One  pound  and  a  half  of  boiled  beef's  heart,  or  fresh  tongue- 
chopped  when  cold. 
Two  pounds  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine. 
Four  pounds  of  pippin  apples,  chopped. 
Two  pounds  of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped. 
Two  pounds  of  currants,  picked,  washed  and  dried. 
Two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar. 
One  quart  of  white  wine. 
One  quart  of  brandy. 
One  wine-glass  of  rose-water. 
Two  grated  nutmegs. 
Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon  } 


Parboil  a  beef's  heart,  or  a  fresh  tongue.  After 
you  have  taken  off  the  skin  and  fat,  weigh  a  pound 
and  a  half.  When  it  is  cold,  chop  it  very  fine, 
Take  the  inside  of  the  suet  ;  weigh  two  pounds, 
and  chop  it  as  fine  as  possible.  Mix  the  meat  and 
suet  together,  adding  the  salt.  Pare,  core,  and 
chop  the  apples,  and  then  stone  and  chop  the  rai- 
sins. Having  prepared  the  currants,  add  them  to 
the  other  fruit,  and  mix  the  fruit  with  the  meat  and 
suet.  Put  in  the  sugar  and  spice,  and  the  grated 
peel  and  juice  of  the  oranges.  Wet  the  whole 
with  the  rose-water  and  liquor,  and  mix  all  well 
together. 


MINCE  PIES. 


A  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves 
A  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace 
A  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 
Two  large  oranges. 
Haifa  pound  of  citron,  cut  in  slips. 


2 


14 


PASTRY. 


Make  the  paste,  allowing,  for  each  pie,  half  a 
pound  of  butter  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sifted  flour.  Make  it  in  the  same  manner  as  puff- 
paste,  but  it  will  not  be  quite  so  rich.  Lay  a  sheet 
of  paste  all  over  a  soup-plate.  Fill  it  with  mince- 
meat, laying  slips  of  citron  on  the  top.  Roll  out  a 
sheet  of  paste,  for  the  lid  of  the  pie.  Put  it  on, 
and  crimp  the  edges  with  a  knife.  Prick  holes  ia 
the  lid. 

Bake  the  pies  half  an  hour  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Keep  your  mince-meat  in  a  jar  tightly  covered. 
Set  it  in  a  dry  cool  place,  and  occasionally  add 
more  brandy  to  it. 


PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  stoned  and  cut  in  half. 
One  pound  of  currants,  picked,  washed,  and  dried. 
One  pound  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine. 
One  pound  of  grated  stale  bread,  or  a  pound  of  flour, 
Eight  eggs. 

A  quar  ter  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
A  pint  of  milk. 
A  glass  of  brandy. 
A  glass  of  wine. 
Two  nutmegs,  grated. 

A  table-spoonful  of  mixed  cinnamon  and  mace. 
A  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 


You  must  prepare  all  your  ingredients  the  day 
before  (except  beating  the  eggs)  that  in  the  morning 
you  may  have  nothing  to  do  but  to  mix  them,  as 
the  pudding  will  require  six  hours  to  boil. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  then  put  to  them  half 
the  milk  and  beat  both  together.  Stir  in  gradually 
the  flour  or  grated  bread.  Next  add  the  sugar  by 
degrees.    Then  the        and  fruit  alternately.  The 


PASTRY. 


15 


fruit  must  be  well  sprinkled  with  flour,  lest  it  sink 
to  the  bottom.  Stir  very  hard.  Then  add  the 
spiee  and  liquor,  and  lastly  the  remainder  of  the 
milk.  Stir  the  whole  mixture  very  well  together. 
If  it  is  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  more  grated 
bread  or  flour.  If  there  is  too  much  bread  or  flour, 
the  pudding  will  be  hard  and  heavy. 

Dip  your  pudding-cloth  in  boiling  water,  shake  it 
out  and  sprinkle  it  slightly  with  flour.  Lay  it  in  a 
pan,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the  cloth.  Tie  it 
up  carefully,  allowing  room  for  the  pudding  to 
swell.  Boil  it  six  hours  and  turn  it  carefully  out  of 
the  cloth. 

Before  you  send  it  to  table,  have  ready  some 
blanched  sweet  almonds  cut  in  slips,  or  some  slips 
of  citron,  or  both.  Stick  them  all  over  the  outside 
of  the  pudding. 

Eat  it  with  wine,  or  with  a  sauce  made  of  drawn 
butter,  wine  and  nutmeg. 

The  pudding  will  be  improved  if  you  add  to  the 
other  ingredients,  the  grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon 
or  orange. 


LEMON  PUDDING. 

One  large  lemon,  with  a  smooth  thin  rind. 
Three  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter — washed. 
Haifa  glass  of  white  wine  and  brandy,  mixed. 
A  tea-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

Five  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter 
for  the  paste. 

Grate  the  yellow  part  of  the  rind  of  a  large  fresh 
e  mon.     Then  cut  the  lemon  in  half,  and  squeeze 


16 


PASTRY. 


the  juice  into  the  plate  that  contains  the  grated 
rind,  carefully  taking  out  all  the  seeds.  Mix  the 
juice  and  rind  together. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  su- 
gar into  a  deep  earthen  pan,  and  cut  up  in  it  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  the  best  fresh  butter.  If  the 
weather  is  very  cold,  set  the  pan  near  the  fire,  for 
a  few  minutes  to  soften  the  butter,  but  do  not  al- 
low it  to  melt  or  it  will  be  heavy.  Stir  the  butter 
and  sugar  together  with  a  stick  or  wooden  spoon, 
till  it  is  perfectly  light  and  of  the  consistence  of 
cream. 

Put4he  eggs  in  a  shallow  broad  pan,  and  beat 
them  with  an  egg-beater  or  rods  till  they  are  quite 
smooth,  and  as  thick  as  a  boiled  custard.  Then 
stir  the  eggs,  gradually,  into  the  pan  of  butter 
and  sugar.  Add  the  liquor  and  rose-water  by  de- 
grees, and  then  stir  in,  gradually,  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  the  lemon.  Stir  the  whole  very  hard,  after 
all  the  ingredients  are  in. 

Have  ready  a  puff-paste  made  of  five  ounces  of 
sifted  flour,- and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  but- 
ter. The  paste  must  be  made  with  as  little  water 
as  possible.  Roll  it  out  in  a  circular  sheet,  thin  in 
the  centre,  and  thicker  towards  the  edges,  and  just 
large  enough  to  cover  the  bottom,  sides,  and  edges 
of  a  soup-plate.  Butter  the  soup-plate  very  well, 
and  lay  the  paste  in  it,  making  it  neat  and  even 
round  the  broad  edge  of  the  plate.  With  a  sharp 
knife,  trim  off  the  superfluous  dough,  and  notch 
the  edges.  Put  in  the  mixture  with  a  spoon,  and 
bake  the  pudding  about  half  an  hour,  in  a  moderate 
oven.  It  should  be  baked  of  a  very  light  brown. 
If  the  oven  is  too  hot,  the  paste  will  not  have  time 
to  rise  well.  If  too  cold,  it  will  be  clammy.  When 
the  pudding  is  cool,  grate  loaf-sugar  over  it. 


PASTRY. 


17 


ORANGE  PUDDIJVG. 

One  large  orange,  of  a  deep  colour,  and  smooth  thin  rind. 
One  lime. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
Three  eggs. 

Half  a  glass  of  mixed  wine  and  brandy. 
A  tea-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  the  orange  and  lime, 
and  squeeze  the  juice  into  a  saucer  or  soup-plate, 
taking  out  all  the  seeds. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 

Beat  the  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  and  tfyen  stir 
them  by  degrees  into  the  pan  of  butter  and  sugar. 
Add,  gradually,  the  liquor  and  rose-water,  and 
then  by  degrees,  the  orange  and  lime.  Stir  all 
well  together. 

Have  ready  a  sheet  of  puff-paste  made  of  five 
ounces  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  fresh  butter.  Lay  the  paste  in  a  buttered  soup- 
plate.  Trim  and  notch  the  edges,  and  then  put  in 
the  mixture.  Bake  it  about  half  an  hour,  in  a  mode- 
rate oven.  Grate  loaf-sugar  over  it,  before  you 
send  it  to  table. 


COCOA-NUT  PUDDJNG. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cocoa-nut,  grated. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 
Three  ounces  and  a  half  of  fresh  butter. 
The  whites  only  of  six  eggs. 
Half  a  glass  of  wine  and  brandy  mixed. 
Half  a  tea-spoonful  of  rose-water. 


Break  up  a  cocoa-nut,  and  take  the  thin  brown 
skin  carefully  off,  with  a  knife.     Wash  all  the 
2* 


18 


PASTRY. 


pieces  ,n  cold  water,  and  then  wipe  them  dry,  with 
a  clean  towel.  Weigh  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
cocoa-nut  and  grate  it  very  fine,  into  a  soT-pltf 

Sur  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add  the 
liquor  and  rose-water  gradually  to  them. 

Beat  the  whites  only  of  six  eggs,  till  they  stand 
alone  on  the  rods  ;  and  then  stirfhe  beate  f  vl  he 
of  egg  gradually  mto  the  butter  and  sugar.  After! 
wards  sprinkle  in,  by  degrees,  the  grated  cocoa- 
affSaJ?- TheLtiraZ; 

Have  ready  a  puff-paste  sufficient  to  cover  the 
bottom  s.des,  and  edges  of  a  soup-plate.    Put  in 

Grate  loaf-sugar  over  it,  when  cool. 


AliMOJfD  PTJDDIJVG. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  tatter 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar 

Haifa  glass  of  nuxed  brandy,  wine,  and  rose-water. 

Shell  half  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  pour 
scalding  water  over  them,  which  will  make  ffie 
skms  pea  off.  As  they  get  cool,  pour  mo"  boil  ng 
water  tdl  the  almonds  are  all  blanched.  Blanch* 
also  the  bitter  almonds.  As  you  blanch  the  al- 
monds throw  them  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water 
rhen  take  them  out,  one  by  one,  wipe  them  dry  in 


PASTRY. 


19 


a  clean  towel,  and  lay  them  on  a  plate.  Pound 
them  one  at  a  time  to  a  fine  paste,  in  a  marble  mortar, 
adding,  as  you  pound  them,  a  few  drops  of  rose- 
water  to  prevent  their  oiling.  Pound  the  bitter  and 
sweet  almonds  alternately,  that  they  may  be  well 
mixed.  They  must  be  made  perfectly  fine  and 
smooth,  and  .are  the  better  for  being  prepared  the 
day  before  they  are  wanted  for  the  pudding. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add 
to  it,  gradually,  the  liquor. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  till  they  stand  alone. 
Stir  the  almonds  and  white  of  eggs,  alternately, 
into  the  butter  and  sugar  ;  and  then  stir  the  whole 
well  together. 

Have  ready  a  puff-paste  sufficient  for  a  soup- 
plate.  Butter  the  plate,  lay  on  the  paste,  trim  and 
notch  it.    Then  put  in  the  mixture. 

Bake  it  about  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven, 

Grate  loaf-sugar  over  it. 


A  CHEESECAKE. 

Four  eggs. 

Half  a  gill  of  milk. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

Two  ounces  of  grated  bread. 

Half  a  glass  of  mixed  brandy  and  wine. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg,  mixed. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants. 


Pick  the  currants  very  clean.  Wash  them 
through  a  cullender,  wipe  them  in  a  towel,  and 
then  dry  them  on  a  dish  before  the  fire. 

When  dry,  take  out  a  few  to  scatter  over  the 


30 


PASTRY. 


top  of  the  cheesecake,  lay  them  aside,  and  sprinkle 
the  remainder  of  the  currants  with  flour. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Grate  the 
bread,  and  prepare  the  spice.  Beat  the  eggs  very 
light. 

Boil  the  milk.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  to 
it  half  the  beaten  egg,  and  boil  both  together  till  it 
becomes  a  curd,  stirring  it  frequently  with  a  knife. 
Then  throw  the  grated  bread  on  the  curd,  and  stir 
all  together.  Then  take  the  milk,  egg,  and  bread 
off  the  fire,  and  stir  it,  gradually,  into  the  butter 
and  sugar.  Next,  stir  in  the  remaining  half  of 
the  egg. 

Add,  by  degrees,  the  liquor  and  spice. 

Lastly,  stir  in,  gradually,  the  currants. 

Have  ready  a  puff-paste,  which  should  be  made 
before  you  prepare  the  cheesecake,  as  the  mixture 
will  become  heavy  by  standing.  Before  you  put  it 
into  the  oven,  scatter  the  remainder  of  the  currants 
over  the  top. 

Bake  it  half  an  hour  in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

Do  not  sugar  the  top. 

You  may  bake  it  either  in  a  soup-plate,  or  in  two 
small  tin  patty-pans,  which,  for  cheesecakes,  should 
be  of  a  square  shape.  If  baked  in  square  patty- 
pans, leave  at  each  side  a  flap  of  paste  in  the  shape 
of  a  half-circle.  Put  long  slits  in  these  flaps,  and 
turn  them  over,  so  that  they  will  rest  on  the  top 
of  the  mixture. 

You  can,  if  you  chuse,  add  to  the  currants  a  few 
raisins  stoned,  and  cut  in  half. 


PASTRY. 


21 


SWEET   POTATO  PUDDING. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  boiled  sweet  potato. 
Three  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
A  glass  of  mixed  wine  and  brandy. 
A  half-glass  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  nutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon. 


Pound  the  spice,  allowing  a  smaller  proportion 
of  inace  than  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

Boil  and  peal  some  sweet  potatoes,  and  when 
they  are  cold,  weigh  a  quarter  of  a  pound.  Mash 
the  sweet  potato  very  smooth,  and  rub  it  through  a 
sieve.    Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the 
butter  and  sugar,  alternately  with  the  sweet  potato. 
Add  by  degrees  the  liquor,  rose-water  and  spice. 
Stir  all  very  hard  together. 

Spread  puff-paste  on  a  soup-plate.  Put  in  the 
mixture,  and  bake  it  about  half  an  hour  in  a  mode- 
rate oven. 

Grate  sugar  over  it. 


PUMPKIN  PUDDING. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  stewed  pumpkin. 
Three  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  or  a  pint  of  cream. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 
Haifa  glass  of  wine  and  brandy  mixed. 
Half  a  glass  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  nutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon. 

Stew  some  pumpkin  with  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible. Drain  it  in  a  cullender,  and  press  it  till  dry. 
When  cold,  weigh  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  and  pass 


22 


PASTRY. 


it  through  a  sieve.  Prepare  the  spice.  Stir  togeth- 
er the  sugar,  and  butter,  or  cream,  till  they  are  per- 
fectly light.  Add  to  them,  gradually,  the  spice  and 
liquor. 

Beat  three  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the 
butter  and  sugar  alternately  with  the  pumpkin. 

Cover  a  soup-plate  with  puff-paste,  and  put  in  the 
mixture.  Bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  about  half 
an  hour. 

Grate  sugar  over  it,  when  cool. 


Instead  of  the  butter,  you  may  boil  a  pint  of 
milk  or  cream,  and  when  cold,  stir  into  it  in  turn 
the  sugar,  eggs,  and  pumpkin. 


GOOSEBERRY  PUDDING. 

A  pint  of  stewed  gooseberries,  with  all  their  juice. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 
Two  ounces  of  fresh  butter. 
Two  ounces  of  grated  bread. 
Three  eggs. 


Stew  the  gooseberries  till  quite  soft.  When  they 
are  cold,  mash  them  fine  with  the  back  of  a  spoon, 
and  stir  into  them  two  ounces  of  sugar.  Take 
two  ounces  more  of  sugar,  and  stir  it  to  a  cream 
with  two  ounces  of  butter. 

Grate  very  fine,  as  much  stale  bread  as  will 
weigh  two  ounces. 

Beat  three  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  but- 
ter and  sugar,  in  turn  with  the  gooseberries,  and 
bread. 


PASTRY. 


23 


Lay  puff-paste  in  a  soup-plate.     Put  in  the  mix- 
ture, and  bake  it  half  an  hour. 
Do  not  grate  sugar  over  it. 


BAKED   APPLE  PUDDING. 

A  pint  of  stewed  apple. 

Haifa  pint  of  cream,  or  two  ounces  of  butter. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

A  nutmeg,  grated. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose  water. 

«A  tea-spoonful  of  grated  lemon-peel. 


Stew  your  apple  in  as  little  water  as  possible, 
and  not  long  enough  for  the  pieces  to  break  and 
lose  their  shape.  Put  them  in  a  cullender  to  drain, 
and  mash  them  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  If 
stewed  too  long,  and  in  too  much  water,  they  will 
lose  their  flavour.  When  cold,  mix  with  them  the 
nutmeg,  rose-water,  and  lemon-peel,  and  two  ounces 
of  sugar.  Stir  the  other  two  ounces  of  sugar,  with 
the  butter  or  cream,  and  then  mix  it  gradually  with 
the  apple. 

Bake  it  in  puff-paste,  in  a  soup-dish  about  half 
an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Do  not  sugar  the  top. 


FRUIT  PIES. 

Fruit  pies  for  family  use,  are  generally  made 
with  common  paste,  allowing  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter  to  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour. 

Peaches  and  plums,  for  pies,  should  be  cut  in 
half,   and   the  stones   taken   out.    Cherries  also 


24 


PASTRY. 


should  be  stoned,  and  red  cherries  only  should  be 
used  for  pies. 

Apples  should  be  cut  into  very  thin  slices,  and 
are  much  improved  by  a  little  lemon-peel.  Sweet 
apples  are  not  good  for  pies,  as  they  are  very  in- 
sipid when  baked,  and  seldom  get  thoroughly  done. 
If  green  apples  are  used,  they  should  first  be  stew- 
ed in  as  little  water  as  possible,  and  made  very 
sweet. 

Apples,  stewed  previous  to  baking,  should  not  be 
done  tHl^hey  break,  but  only  till  they  are  tender. 
They  should  then  be  drained  in  a  cullender,  and 
chopped  fine  with  a  knife  or  the  edge  of  a  spoon. 

In  making  pies  of  juicy  fruit,  it  is  a  good  way  to 
set  a  small  tea-cup  on  the  bottom  crust,  and  lay 
the  fruit  all  round  it.  The  juice  will  collect  under 
the  cup,  and  not  run  out  at  the  edges  or  top  of  the 
pie.  The  fruit  should  be  mixed  with  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  sugar,  and  piled  up  in  the  middle,  so  as 
to  make  the  pie  highest  in  the  centre.  The  upper 
crust  should  be  pricked  with  a  fork,  or  have  a  slit 
cut  in  the  middle.  The  edges  should  be  nicely 
crimped  with  a  knife. 

Dried  peaches,  dried  apples,  and  cranberries 
should  be  stewed  with  a  very  little  water,  and  allow- 
ed  to  get  quite  cold  before  they  are  put  into  the 
pie.  If  stewed  fruit  is  put  in  warm,  it  will  make 
the  paste  heavy. 

If  your  pies  are  made  in  the  form  of  shells,  or 
without  lids,  the  fruit  should  always  be  stewed  first, 
or  it  will  not  be  sufficiently  done,  as  the  shells 
(which  should  be  of  puff-paste)  must  not  bake  so 
long  as  covered  pies. 

Shells  intended  for  sweetmeats,  must  be  baked 
empty,  and  the  fruit  put  into  them  before  they  go 
to  table. 


PASTRY. 


25 


Fruit  pies  with  lids,  should  have  loaf-sugar  grated 
over  them.  If  they  have  been  baked  the  day  be- 
fore, they  should  be  warmed  in  the  stove,  or  near 
the  fire,  before  they  are  sent  to  table,  to  soften  the 
crust,  and  make  them  taste  fresh. 

Raspberry  and  apple-pies  are  much  improved  by 
taking  off  the  lid,  and  pouring  in  a  little  cream, 
just  before  they  go  to  table.  Replace  the  lid  very 
carefully. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

A  hundred  large  fresh  oysters,  or  more  if  small. 

The  yolks  of  six  eggs  boiled  hard. 

A  large  slice  of  stale-bread,  grated. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 

A  table-spoonful  of  pepper. 

A  table-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  nutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon. 


Take  a  large  round  dish,  butter  it,  and  spread  a 
rich  paste  over  the  sides,  and  round  the  edge,  but 
not  at  the  bottom. 

Salt  oysters  will  not  do  for  pies.  They  should 
be  fresh,  and  as  large  and  fine  as  possible. 

Drain  off  part  of  the  liquor  from  the  oysters. 
Put  them  into  a  pan,  and  season  them  with  pepper, 
salt  and  spice.  Stir  them  well  with  the  seasoning. 
Have  ready  the  yolks  of  eggs,  chopped  fine,  and 
the  grated  bread.  Pour  the  oysters  (with  as  much 
of  their  liquor  as  you  please)  into  the  dish  that  has 
the  paste  in  it.  Strew  over  them  the  chopped  egg 
and  grated  bread. 

Roll  out  the  lid  of  the  pie,  and  put  it  on,  crimp- 
ing the  edges  handsomely. 

Take  a  small  sheet  of  paste,  cut  it  into  a  square 
3 


25 


PASTRY. 


and  roll  it  up.  Cut  it  with  a  sharp  knife  into  the 
form  of  a  double  tulip. 

Make  a  slit  in  the  centre  of  the  upper  crust,  and 
stick  the  tulip  in  it. 

Cut  out  eight  large  leaves  of  paste,  and  lay  them 
on  the  lid. 

Bake  the  pie  in  a  quick  oven. 


If  you  think  the  oysters  will  be  too  much  done 
by  baking  them  in  the  crust,  you  can  substitute 
for  them,  pieces  of  bread,  to  keep  up  the  lid  of 
the  pie. 

Put  the  oysters  with  their  liquor  and  the  season- 
ing, chopped  egg,  grated  bread,  &c.  into  a  pan. 
Cover  them  closely,  and  let  them  just  come  to  a 
boil,  taking  them  off  the  fire,  and  stirring  them  fre- 
quently. 

When  the  crust  is  baked,  take  the  lid  neatly  off 
(loosening  it  round  the  edge  with  a  knife)  take  out 
the  pieces  of  bread,  and  put  in  the  oysters.  Lay 
the  lid  on  again  very  carefully. 


For  oysterpatties,  the  oysters  are  prepared  in  the 
same  manner.  They  may  be  chopped  if  you  choose. 
They  must  be  put  in  small  shells  of  puff-paste. 


BEEF-STEAK  PIE. 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  spread  a  sheet  of  paste 
all  over  the  bottom,  sides,  and  edge. 

Cut  away  from  your  beef-steak  all  the  bone,  fat, 
gristle,  and  skin.  Cut  the  lean  in  small  thin  pieces, 
about  as  large,  generally,  as  the  palm  of  your  hand. 
Beat  the  meat  well  with  the  rolling-pin,  to  make  it 


PASTRY. 


27 


juicy  and  tender.  If  you  put  in  the  fat,  it  will 
make  the  gravy  too  greasy  and  strong,  as  it  cannot 
be  skimmed. 

Put  a  layer  of  meat  over  the  bottom-crust  of 
your  dish,  and  season  it  to  your  taste,  with  pepper, 
salt,  and,  if  you  choose,  a  little  nutmeg.  A  small 
quantity  of  mushroom  ketchup  is  an  improvement  ; 
so  also,  is  a  little  minced  onion. 

Have  ready  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  sliced  thin.  , 
Spread  over  the  meat,  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  a 
small  piece  of  butter;  then  another  layer  of  meat, 
seasoned,  and  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  so  on  till 
the  dish  is  full  and  heaped  up  in  the  middle,  having 
a  layer  of  meat  on  the  top.    Pour  in  a  little  wTater. 

Cover  the  pie  with  a  sheet  of  paste,  and  trim  the 
edges.  Notch  it  handsomely  with  a  knife  ;  and, 
if  you  choose,  make  a  tulip  of  paste,  and  stick  it 
in  the  middle  of  the  lid,  and  lay  leaves  of  paste 
round  it. 


Fresh  oysters  will  greatly  improve  a  beef-steak 
pie.    So  also  will  mushrooms. 

Any  meat  pie  may  be  made  in  a  similar  manner. 


INDIAN  PUDDING. 

A  pound  of  beef-suet,  chopped  very  fine. 
A  pint  of  molasses. 
A  pint  of  rich  milk. 
Four  eggs. 

A  large  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 
A  little  grated  or  chipped  lemon-peel. 
Indian  meal  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter. 


Warm  the  milk  and  molasses,  and  stir  them 
together.  Beat  the  eggs,  and  stir  them  gradually 
into  the  milk  and  molasses,  in  turn  with  the  suet 


28 


PASTRY. 


and  indian  meal.  Add  the  spice  and  lemon-peel, 
and  stir  all  very  hard  together.  Take  care  not  to 
put  too  much  indian  meal,  or  the  pudding  will  be 
heavy  and  solid, 

Dip  the  cloth  in  boiling  water.  Shake  it  out, 
and  flour  it  slightly.  Pour  the  mixture  into  it,  and 
tie  it  up,  leaving  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell. 
Boil  it  three  hours.  Serve  it  up  hot,  and  eat 
it  with  sauce  made  of  drawn  butter,  wine  and 
nutmeg. 

When  cold,  it  is  very  good  cut  in  slices  and  fried. 


BATTER  PUDDING. 

Six  eggs. 

Eight  table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour. 
One  quart  of  milk. 
A  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 

Stir  the  flour,  gradually,  into  the  milk,  carefully 
dissolving  all  the  lumps.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light, 
and  add  them  by  degrees  to  the  milk  and  flour. 
Put  in  the  salt,  and  stir  the  whole  well  together. 

Take  a  very  thick  pudding-cloth.  Dip  it  in 
boiling  water  and  flour  it.  Pour  into  it  the  mixture 
and  tie  it  up,  leaving  room  for  it  to  swell.  Boil  it 
hard,  one  hour,  and  keep  it  in  the  pot,  till  it  is 
time  to  send  it  to  table.  Serve  it  up  with  wine- 
sauce. 


A  square  cloth,  which  when  tied  up  will  make  the 
pudding  of  a  round  form,  is  better  than  a  bag. 

Apple  Batter  Pudding  is  made  by  pouring  the 
batter  over  a  dish  of  pippins,  pared,  cored,  and 
sweetened,  either  whole  or  cut  in  pieces.  Bake  it, 
and  eat  it  with  butter  and  sugar. 


PASTRY. 


29 


BREAD  PUDDIXG. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  stale  bread. 

A  quart  of  milk,  boiled  with  two  or  three  sticks  of  cinnamon,  slight- 
ly broken. 
Eight  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
A  little  grated  lemon-peel. 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  cinnamon,  strain  it,  and 
set  it  away  till  quite  cold. 

Grate  as  much  crumb  of  stale-bread  as  will  weigh 
a  quarter  of  a  pound.  Beat  the  eggs,  and  when 
the  milk  is  cold,  stir  them  into  it,  in  turn  with  the 
bread  and  sugar.  Add  the  lemon-peel,  and  if  you 
choose,  a  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

Bake  it  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  grate  nutmeg 
over  it  when  done.  Do  not  send  it  to  table  hot. 
Baked  puddings  should  never  be  eaten  till  they 
have  become  cold,  or  at  least  cool. 


RICE  PUDDIJVG. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  or  cream  and  milk. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  mace,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 
A  half  wine-glass  of  rose-water. 


Wash  the  rice.  Boil  it  till  very  soft.  Drain  it, 
and  set  it  away  to  get  cold.  Put  the  butter  and 
sugar  together  in  a  pan,  aud  stir  them  till  very 
light.  Add  to  them  the  spice  and  rose-water. 
Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them,  gradually, 
3* 


30 


PASTRY. 


into  the  milk.  Then  stir  the  eggs  and  milk  into  the 
butter  and  sugar,  alternately  with  the  rice. 

Bake  it  and  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

Currants  or  raisins,  floured,  and  stirred  in  at  the 
last,  will  greatly  improve  it. 

It  should  be  eaten  cold,  or  quite  cool. 


BOSTON  PUDDING. 

Make  a  good  common  paste  with  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  flour,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter. When  you  roll  it  out  the  last  time,  cut  off 
the  edges,  till  you  get  the  sheet  of  paste  of  an  even 
square  shape. 

Have  ready  some  fruit  sweetened  to  your  taste. 
If  cranberries,  gooseberries,  dried  peaches,  or  dam- 
sons, they  should  be  stewed,  and  made  very  sweet. 
If  apples,  they  should  be  stewed  in  a  very  little  wa- 
ter, drained,  and  seasoned  with  nutmeg,  rose-water 
and  lemon.  If  currants,  raspberries,  or  blackber- 
ries, they  should  be  mashed  with  sugar,  and  put 
into  the  pudding  raw. 

Spread  the  fruit  very  thick,  all  over  the  sheet  of 
paste,  (which  must  not  be  rolled  out  too  thin.) 
When  it  is  covered  all  over  with  the  fruit,  roll  it 
up,  and  close  the  dough  at  both  ends,  and  down 
the  last  side.  Tie  the  pudding  in  a  cloth  and 
boil  it. 

Eat  it  with  sugar.  It  must  not  be  taken  out  of 
the  pot  till  just  before  it  is  brought  to  table. 


PASTRY. 


21 


FRITTERS. 

Seven  eggs. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk. 

A  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 

Sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 


Beat  the  eggs  well  and  stir  them  gradually  into 
the  milk.  Add  the  salt,  and  stir  in  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thick  batter. 

Fry  them  in  lard,  and  serve  them  up  hot. 

Eat  them  with  wine  and  sugar. 


They  are  improved  by  stirring  in  a  table-spoonful 
of  yeast. 

They  are  excellent  with  the  addition  of  cold 
stewed  apple,  stirred  into  the  mixture,  in  which 
case  use  less  flour. 


FINE  CUSTARDS. 

A  quart  of  milk  or  cream. 

The  yolks.only,  of  sixteen  egg9. 

Six  ounces  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  broken  in  small  pieces. 

A  large  handful  of  peach-leaves,  or  half  an  ounce  of  peach-kernels 

or  bitter  almonds,  broken  in  pieces. 
A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 
A  nutmeg. 

Boil  in  the  milk  the  cinnamon,  and  the  peach- 
leaves,  or  peach-kernels.  When  it  has  boiled,  set 
it  away  to  get  cold.  As  soon  as  it  is  cold,  strain 
it  through  a  sieve,  to  clear  it  from  the  cinnamon, 
peach-leaves,  &c.  and  stir  into  it,  gradually,  the 
sugar,  spice,  and  rose-water. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  sixteen  eggs  very  light,  and 


32 


PASTRY. 


stir  them  by  degrees  into  the  milk,  which  must  be 
quite  cold  or  the  eggs  will  make  it  curdle.  Put  the 
custard  into  cups  and  set  them  in  a  baking  pan,  half 
filled  with  water.  When  baked,  grate  some  nut- 
meg over  each,  and  ice  them.  Make  the  icing  of 
the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  a  large  tea-spoonful  of 
powdered  loaf-sugar,  and  six  drops  of  essence  of 
lemon,  beaten  all  together  till  it  stands  alone.  Pile 
up  some  of  the  icing  on  the  top  of  each  custard, 
heaping  it  high.  Put  a  spot  of  red  nonpareils  on  the 
middle  of  the  pile  of  icings. 

If  the  weather  is  damp,  or  the  eggs  not  new-laid, 
more  than  eight  whites  will  be  required  for  the 
icing. 


PLAIN  CUSTARDS. 

A  quart  of  rich  milk. 
Eight  eggs. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

A  handful  of  peach-leaves,  or  half  an  ounce  of  peach-kernels, 

broken  in  pieces. 
A  nutmeg. 

Boil  the  peach-leaves  or  kernels  in  the  milk,  and 
set  it  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  strain  out  the 
leaves  or  kernels,  and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  gradually  into  the 
milk,  when  it  is  quite  cold.  Bake  it  in  cups,  or  in 
a  large  white  dish. 

When  cool,  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top. 


PASTRY. 


33 


RICE  CUSTARDS. 

Half  a  pound  of  rice. 

Half  a  pound  of  raisins  or  currants. 

Eight  yolks  of  eggs,  or  six  whole  eggs. 

Six  ounces  of  powdered  sugar. 

A  quart  of  rich  milk. 

A  handful  of  peach-leaves,  or  he  If  an  ounce  of  peach-kernels,  brok- 
en in  pieces. 
Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  broken  in  pieces. 

Boil  the  rice  with  the  raisins  or  currants,  which 
must  first  be  floured.  Butter  some  cups  or  a 
mould,  and  when  the  rice  is  quite  soft,  drain  it,  and 
put  it  into  them.    Set  it  away  to  get  cold. 

Beat  the  eggs  well.  Boil  the  milk  with  the 
cinnamon,  and  peach-leaves,  or  kernels.  As  soon 
as  it  has  come  to  a  boil,  take  it  off  and  strain  it 
through  a  sieve.  Then  set  it  again  on  the  fire,  stir 
into  it  alternately,  the  egg  and  sugar,  taking  it  off 
frequently,  and  stirring  it  hard,  lest  it  become  a 
curd.  Take  care  not  to  boil  it  too  long,  or  it  will 
be  lumpy,  and  lose  its  flavour.  When  done,  set  it 
away  to  cool.  Turn  out  the  rice  from  the  cups  or 
mould,  into  a  deep  dish.  Pour  some  of  the  boiled 
custard  over  it,  and  send  up  the  remainder  of  the 
custard  in  a  sauce-boat. 

You  may,  if  you  choose,  ornament  the  lumps 
of  rice,  (after  the  custard  is  poured  round  them) 
by  making  a  stiff  froth  of  white  of  egg  (beaten  till 
it  stands  alone)  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lem- 
on, with  a  very' little  powdered  loaf-sugar.  Heap 
the  froth  on  the  top  of  each  lump  of  rice. 


34  PASTRY. 


COLD  CUSTARDS. 

A  quart  of  new  milk,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  mixed. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 
A  large  glass  of  white  wine. 
A  nutmeg. 

Mix  together  the  milk,  cream,  and  sugar.  Stir 
the  wine  into  it,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  your 
custard-cups.  Set  them  in  a  warm  place  near  the 
fire,  till  they  become  a  firm  curd.  Then  set  them 
on  ice,  or  in  a  very  cold  place.  Grate  nutmeg 
over  them. 


CURDS   AND  WHEY. 

Take  a  small  piece  of  rennet  about  two  inches 
square.  Wash  it  very  clean  in  cold  water  to 
get  all  the  salt  off,  and  wipe  it  dry.  Put  it  in  a 
tea-cup  and  pour  on  it  just  enough  of  lukewarm 
water  to  cover  it.  Let  it  set  all  night  or  for  sever- 
al hours.  Then  take  out  the  rennet,  and  stir  the 
water  in  which  it  was  soaked,  into  a  quart  of  milk, 
which  should  be  in  a  broad  dish. 

Set  the  milk  in  a  warm  place,  till  it  becomes  a 
firm  curd.  As  soon  as  the  curd  is  completely 
made,  set  it  in  a  cool  place,  or  on  ice  (if  in  sum- 
mer) for  two  or  three  hours  before  you  want  to 
use  it. 

Eat  it  with  wine,  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 


The  whey,  drained  from  the  curd,  is  an  excel- 
lent drink  for  invalids. 


PASTRY. 


35 


A  TRIFLE. 

A  quart  of  cream. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  powdered. 

Half  a  pint  of  white  wine  ?  mixed 

Half  a  gill  of  brandy  5 

Eight  maccaroons,  or  more  if  you  choose. 

Four  small  spunge-cakes  or  Naples  Biscuit. 

Two  ounces  of  blanched  sweet  almonds,  pounded  in  a  mortar. 

One  ounce  of  blanched  bitter  almonds  or  peach-kernels. 

The  juice  and  grated  peel  of  two  lemons. 

A  nutmeg,  grated. 

A  glass  of  noyau. 

A  pint  of  rich  boiled  custard,  made  of  the' yolks  of  eggs. 


Pound  the  sweet  and  bitter  almonds  to  a  smooth 
paste,  adding  a  little  rose-water  as  you  pound  them. 

Grate  the  yellow  peel  of  the  lemons,  and  squeeze 
the  juice  into  a  saucer. 

Break  the  spunge-cake  and  maccaroons  into 
small  pieces,  mix  them  with  the  almonds,  and  lay 
them  in  the  bottom  of  a  large  glass  bowl.  Grate 
a  nutmeg  over  them,  and  the  juice  and  peel  of  the 
lemons.  Add  the  wine  and  brandy,  and  let  the 
mixture  remain  untouched,  till  the  cakes  are  dis- 
solved in  the  liquor.    Then  stir  it  a  little. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  with  a  few  peach-leaves. 
Strain  it,  and  set  it  again  on  the  fire.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  milk,  al- 
ternately with  four  ounces  of  powdered  white  su- 
gar. While  the  custard  is  boiling,  take  it  frequently 
off  the  fire,  and  stir  to  prevent  its  curdling.  When 
done,  set  it  away  to  cool. 

Mix  the  cream  and  sugar  with  a  glass  of  noyau, 
and  beat  it  with  a  whisk  or  rods,  till  it  stands  alone. 

As  the  froth  rises,  take  it  off  with  a  spoon,  and 
lay  it  on  a  sieve  (with  a  large  dish  under  it)  to  drain. 
The  cream,  that  drains  into  the  dish,  must  be  pour- 
ed back  into  the  pan  with  the  rest  and  beaten  over 


36 


PASTRY. 


again.  When  the  cream  is  finished,  set  it  in  a  cool 
place. 

When  the  boiled  custard  -is  cold,  pour  it  into  the 
glass  bowl  upon  the  dissolved  cakes,  &c.  and 
when  the  cream  is  ready,  fill  up  the  bowl  with  it, 
heaping  it  high  in  the  middle.  You  may  ornament 
it  with  nonpareils. 

If  you  choose,  you  can  put  in,  between  the  cus- 
tard and  the  frothed  cream,  a  layer  of  fruit  jelly, 
or  small  fruit  preserved. 


WHIPT  CREAM. 

A  quart  of  cream. 

The  whites  of  four  eggs. 

Half  a  pint  of  white  wine. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar. 

Ten  drops  of  strong-  essence  of  lemon;  or  two  lemons  cut  in  thin 
slices,  or  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon. 


Mix  together,  in  a  broad  pan,  all  the  ingredients, 
unless  you  use  slices  of  lemon,  and  then  they  must 
be  laid  at  intervals  among  the  froth,  as  you  heap  it 
in  the  bowl. 

With  a  whisk  or  rods,  beat  the  cream  to  a  strong 
froth.  Have  beside  your  pan  a  sieve  (bottom  up- 
wards) with  a  large  dish  under  it.  As  the  froth 
rises,  take  it  lightly  off  with  a  spoon,  and  lay  it  on 
the  sieve  to  drain.  When  the  top  of  the  sieve 
is  full,  transfer  the  froth  to  a  large  glass  or  china 
bowl.    Continue  to  do  this  till  the  bowl  is  full. 

The  cream  which  has  dropped  through  the  sieve 
into  the  dish,  must  be  poured  into  the  pan,  and 
beaten  over  again.  When  all  the  cream  is  con- 
verted into  froth,  pile  it  up  in  the  bowl,  making  it 
highest  in  the  middle. 


PASTRY. 


37 


If  you  choose,  you  may  ornament  it  with  red 
and  green  nonpareils. 

If  you  put  in  glasses,  lay  a  little  jelly  in  the  bot- 
tom of  each  glass,  and  pile  the  cream  on  it. 
Keep  it  in  a  cool  place  till  you  want  to  use  it. 


FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Six  whites  of  eggs. 

Six  large  table-spoonfuls  of  jelly. 

A  pint  of  cream. 

Put  the  jelly  and  white  of  egg  into  a  pan,  and 
beat  it  together  with  a  whisk,  till  it  becomes  a  stiff 
froth,  and  stands  alone. 

Have  ready  the  cream,  in  a  broad  shallow  dish. 
Just  before  you  send  it  to  table,  pile  up  the  froth 
in  the  centre  of  the  cream. 


ICE  CREAM. 

A  quart  of  rich  cream. 

Half  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar. 

The  juice  of  two  large  lemons,  or  a  pint  of  strawberries  or  rasp- 
berries. 

Put  the  cream  into  a  broad  pan,  and  squeeze 
the  lemon  juice  into  it,  or  stir  in  gradually  the 
strawberries  or  raspberries,  which  must  first  be 
mashed  to  a  smooth  paste.  Then  stir  in  the  su- 
gar by  degrees,  and  when  all  is  well  mixed,  strain 
it  through  a  sieve. 

Put  it  into  a  tin  that  has  a  close  cover,  and  set  it 
4 


33 


PASTRY. 


in  a  tub.  Fill  the  tub  with  ice  broken  into  very 
small  pieces,  and  strew  among  the  ice  a  large  quan- 
tity of  salt,taking  care  that  none  of  the  salt  gets  into 
the  cream.  Scrape  the  cream  down  with  a  spoon 
as  it  freezes  round  the  edges  of  the  tin.  When  it 
is  all  frozen,  dip  the  tin  in  lukewarm  water  ;  take  out 
the  cream,  and  fill  }rour  glasses  ;  but  not  till  a  few 
minutes  before  you  want  to  use  it,  as  it  will  very 
soon  melt. 

You  may  heighten  the  colour  of  the  red  fruit,  by 
a  little  cochineal. 


If  you  wish  to  have  it  in  moulds,  put  the  cream 
into  them  as  soon  as  it  has  frozen  in  the  tin.  Set 
the  moulds  in  a  tub  of  ice  and  salt.  Just  before 
you  want  to  use  the  cream,  take  the  moulds  out  of 
the  tub,  wipe  or  wash  the  salt,  carefully  from  the 
outside,  dip  the  moulds  in  lukewarm  water,  and 
turn  out  the  cream. 


CALVES-FEET  JELLY. 

Four  calves  feet. 

Three  quarts  of  water. 

A  pint  of  white  wine. 

Three  lemons. 

The  whites  of  six  eggs. 

Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon. 

Half  a  ponnd  of  loaf-sugar,  broken  into  lumps. 


Endeavour  to  procure  calves  feet,  that  have  been 
nicely  singed,  but  not  skinned,  as  the  skin  being 
left  on,  makes  the  jelly  much  firmer. 

The  day  before  you  want  to  use  the  jelly,  boil 
the  four  calves  feet  in  three  quarts  of  water,  till 
the  meat  drops  from  the  bone.    When  sufficiently 


PASTRY. 


59 


done,  put  it  into  a  cullender  or  sieve,  and  let  the 
liquid  drain  from  the  meat,  into  a  broad  pan  or  dish. 
Skim  off  the  fat.  Let  the  jelly  stand  till  next  day, 
and  then  carefully  scrape  off  the  sediment  from 
the  bottom.  It  will  be  a  firm  jelly,  if  too  much 
water  has  not  been  used,  and  if  it  has  boiled  long 
enough. 

Early  next  morning,  put  the  jelly  into  a  tin  ket- 
tle, or  covered  tin  pan  ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  melt 
>  it  a  little.  Take  it  off,  and  season  it  with  the  cin- 
namon slightly  broken,  a  pint  of  madeira  wine,  three 
lemons  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  half  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar,  broken  up. 

If  you  wish  it  high-coloured,  add  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  French  brandy.  Mix  all  well  together. 
Beat,  slightly,  the  whites  of  six  eggs  (saving  the 
egg-shells)  and  stir  the  whites  into  the  jelly.  Break 
up  the  egg-shells  into  very  small  pieces,  and  throw 
them  in  also.     Stir  the  whole  very  well  together. 

Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  boil  it  hard  five  minutes, 
but  do  not  stir  it,  as  that  will  prevent  its  clear- 
ing. Have  ready  a  large  white  flannel  bag,  the 
top  wide,  and  the  bottom  tapering  to  a  point. 
Tie  the  bag  to  the  backs  of  two  chairs,  or  to  the 
legs  of  a  table,  and  set  a  white  dish  or  a  mould 
under  it. 

After  the  jelly  has  boiled  five  minutes,  pour  it 
hot  into  the  bag,  and  let  it  drip  through  into  the 
dish.  Do  not  squeeze  the  bag,  as  that  will  make 
the  jelly  dull  and  cloudy. 

If  it  is  not  clear  the  first  time  it  passes  through 
the  bag,  empty  out  all  the  ingredients,  wash  the 
bag,  suspend  it  again,  put  another  white  dish  under 
it,  pour  the  jelly  back  into  the  bag,  and  let  it  drip 
through  again.  Repeat  this  six  or  eight  times,  or 
till  it  is  clear,  putting  a  clean  dish  under  it  every 


40 


PASTRY. 


time.  If  it  does  not  drip  freely,  move  the  bag  into 
a  warmer  place. 

When  the  jelly  has  all  dripped  through  the  bag, 
and  is  clear,  set  it  in  a  cool  place  to  congeal.  It 
will  sometimes  congeal  immediately,  and  sometimes 
not  for  several  hours,  particularly  if  the  weather  is 
warm  and  damp.  If  the  weather  is  very  cold,  you 
must  take  care  not  to  let  it  freeze.  When  it  is 
quite  firm,  which  perhaps  it  will  not  be  till  evening, 
fill  your  glasses  with  it,  piling  it  up  very  high.  If 
you  make  it  in  a  mould,  you  must  either  set  the 
mould  under  the  bag  while  it  is  dripping,  or  pour 
it  from  the  dish  into  the  mould  while  it  is  liquid. 
When  it  is  perfectly  congealed,  dip  the  mould  for 
an  instant  in  boiling  water  to  loosen  the  jelly.  Turn 
it  out  on  a  glass  dish. 

This  quantity  of  ingredients  will  make  a  quart  of 
jelly  when  finished.  In  cool  weather,  it  may  be 
made  a  day  or  two  before  it  is  wanted. 

You  may  increase  the  seasoning,  (that  is,  the 
wine,  lemon,  and  cinnamon,)  according  to  your 
taste,  but  less  than  the  above  proportion  will  not 
be  sufficient  to  flavour  the  jelly. 


BLANCMANGE, 

Four  calves  feet. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  thick  cream. 

Half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  broken  up. 

A  glass  of  wine. 

Haifa  glass  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  beaten  and  sifted. 

Get  four  calves  feet  ;  if  possible  some  that  have 
been  singed,  and  not  skinned.  Scrape,  and  clean 
them  well,  and  boil  them  in  three  quarts  of  water, 
till  all  the  meat  drops  off  the  bone.    Drain  the 


PASTRY. 


41 


liquid  through  a  cullender  or  sieve,  and  skim  it 
well.  Let  it  stand  till  next  morning,  to  congeal. 
Then  clean  it  well  from  the  sediment,  and  put  it  in- 
to a  tin  or  bell-metal  kettle.  Stir  into  it,  the  cream, 
sugar,  and  mace.  Boil  it  hard  for  five  minutes, 
stirring  it  several  times.  Then  strain  it  through 
a  linen  cloth  or  napkin  into  a  large  bowl,  and  add 
the  wine  and  rose-water. 

Set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  three  or  four  hours, 
stirring  it  very  frequently  with  a  spoon  to  prevent 
the  cream  from  separating  from  the  jelly.  The 
more  it  is  stirred  the  better.     Stir  it  till  it  is  cool. 

Wash  your  moulds,  wipe  them  dry,  and  then  wet 
them  with  cold  water.  When  the  blancmange  be- 
comes very  thick,  (that  is,  in  three  or  four  hours,  if 
the  weather  is  not  too  damp)  put  it  into  your 
moulds. 

When  it  has  set  in  them  till  it  is  quite  firm,  loos- 
en it  carefully  all  round  with  a  knife,  and  turn  it 
out  on  glass  or  china  plates. 

If  you  wish  to  make  it  with  almonds,  take  an 
ounce  of  blanched  bitter  almonds,  and  two  ounces 
of  sweet.  Beat  them  in  a  mortar  to  a  fine  paste, 
pouring  in  occasionally  a  little  rose-water.  When 
the  mixture  is  ready  to  boil,  add  the  almonds  to  it, 
gradually,  stirring  them  well  in.  Or  you  may  stir 
them  in,  while  it  is  cooling  in  the  bowl. 

If  it  inclines  to  stick  to  the  moulds,  set  them  an 
instant  in  hot  water.    It  will  then  turn  out  easily. 

If  you  choose  to  make  it  without  calves  feet,  you 
can  substitute  an  ounce  of  the  best  and  cleareit 
isinglass,  (or,  if  in  summer,  an  ounce  and  a  quarter) 
boiled  with  the  other  ingredients.    If  made  with 
4* 


42 


isinglass,  you  must  use  two  ounces  of  sweet,  and  an 
ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  with  the  addition  of  the 
grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  and  a  large  stick  of 
cinnamon,  broken  up,  a  glass  of  wine  and  half  a 
glass  of  rose-water.  These  ingredients  must  be  all 
mixed  together,  with  a  quart  of  cream,  and  boiled 
hard  for  five  minutes.  The  mixture  must  then  be 
strained  through  a  napkin,  into  a  large  bowl.  Set 
it  in  a  cool  place,  and  stir  it  frequently  till  nearly 
cold.    It  must  then  be  put  into  the  moulds. 

You  may  substitute  for  the  almonds,  half  a  gil!  of 
noyau,  in  which  case,  omit  the  wine. 


PART  THE  SECOND. 


CAKES. 


GENERAL,  DIRECTIONS. 

In  making  cakes,  it  is  particularly  necessary  that 
the  eggs  should  be  well  beaten.  They  are  not  suf- 
ficiently light,  till  the  surface  looks  smooth  and  lev- 
el, and  till  they  get  so  thick  as  to  be  of  the  consis- 
tence of  boiled  custard. 

White  of  egg  should  always  be  beaten  till  it  be- 
comes a  heap  of  stiff  froth,  without  any  liquid  at 
the  bottom  ;  and  till  it  hangs  from  the  rods  or  fork 
without  dropping. 

Eggs  become  light  soonest  when  new-laid,  and 
when  beaten  near  the  fire,  or  in  warm  dry  weather. 

Butter  and  sugar  should  be  stirred  till  it  looks 
like  thick  cream,  and  till  it  stands  up  in  the  pan. 

It  should  be  kept  cool.  If  too  warm,  it  will  make 
the  cakes  heavy. 

Large  cakes  should  be  baked  in  tin  or  earthen 
pans,  with  straight  sides,  that  are  as  nearly  perpen- 
dicular as  possible.  They  cut  into  handsomer  slices, 
and  if  they  are  to  be  iced,  it  will  be  found  very  in- 
convenient to  put  on  the  icing,  if  the  cake  slopes  in 
much  towards  the  bottom. 

Before  you  ice  a  cake,  dredge  it  all  over  with 


46 


CARES. 


flour,  and  then  wipe  the  flour  off.  This  will  enable 
you  to  spread  on  the  icing  more  evenly. 

Before  you  cut  an  ice  cake,  cut  the  icing  by  it- 
self with  a  small  sharp  penknife.  The  large  knife 
With  which  you  divide  the  cake,  will  crack  and 
break  the  icing. 

Large  Gingerbread,  as  it  burns  very  easily,  may 
be  baked  in  an  earthen  pan.  So  also  may  Black 
Cake  or  Pound  Cake.  Earthen  pans  or  moulds, 
with  a  hollow  tube  in  the  middle,  are  best  for  cakes. 

If  large  cakes  are  baked  in  tin  pans,  the  bottom 
and  sides  should  be  covered  writh  sheets  of  paper, 
before  the  mixture  is  put  in.  The  paper  must  be 
well  buttered. 

Spunge  cakes,  and  Almond  cakes  should  oe  baked 
in  pans  that  are  as  thin  as  possible. 

If  the  cakes  should  get  burnt,  scrape  them  with 
a  knife  or  grater,  as  soon  as  they  are  cool. 

Always  be  careful  to  butter  your  pans  well. 
Should  the  cakes  stick,  they  cannot  be  got  out 
without  breaking. 

For  queen-cakes,  he.  the  small  tins  of  a  round 
or  oval  shape  are  most  convenient.  Fill  them  but 
little  more  than  half. 

After  the  mixture  is  completed,  set  it  in  a  cool 
place  till  all  the  cakes  are  baked. 

In  rolling  out  cakes  made  of  dough,  use  as  little 
flour  as  possible.  When  you  lay  them  in  the  pans, 
do  not  place  them  too  close  together,  lest  they  run 
into  each  other. 

When  you  are  cutting  them  out,  dip  the  cutter 
frequently  in  flour,  to  prevent  its  sticking. 


CAKES. 


47 


QUEEN  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 
One  pound  of  fresh  butter — washed. 
Fourteen  ounces  of  sifted  flour. 
Ten  eg^s. 

One  wine-glass  of  wine  and  brandy,  mixed. 

Half  a  glass  of  rose-water,  or  twelve  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 

One  tea-spoonfnl  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  mixed. 

One  nutmeg,  beaten  or  gratech 

Pound  the  spice  to  a  fine  powder,  in  a  marble 
mortar,  and  sift  it  well. 

Put  the  sugar  into  a  deep  earthen  pan,  and  cut 
the  butter  into  it.  Stir  them  together,  till  very 
light. 

Beat  the  eggs  in  a  broad  shallow  pan,  till  they 
are  perfectly  smooth  and  thick. 

Stir  into  the  butter  and  sugar  a  little  of  the  beat- 
en egg,  and  then  a  little  flour,  and  so  on  alternate- 
ly, a  little  egg  and  a  little  flour,  till  the  whole  is  in  ; 
continuing  all  the  time  to  beat  the  eggs,  and  stir- 
ring the  mixture  very  hard.  Add  by  degrees,  the 
spice,  and  then  the  liquor,  a  little  at  a  time.  Final- 
ly, put  in  the  rose-water,  or  essence  of  lemon.  Stir 
the  whole  very  hard  at  the  last. 

Take  about  two  dozen  little  tins,  or  more,  if  you 
have  room  for  them  in  the  oven.  Rub  them  very 
well  with  fresh  butter.  With  a  spoon,  put  some  of 
the  mixture  in  each  tin,  but  do  not  fill  them  to  the 
top,  as  the  cakes  will  rise  high  in  baking.  Bake 
them  in  a  quick  oven,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
When  they  are  done,  they  will  shrink  a  little  from 
the  sides  of  the  tins. 

Before  you  fill  the  tins  again,  scrape  them  well 
with  a  knife,  and  wash  or  wipe  them  clean. 

If  the  cakes  are  scorched  by  too  hot  a  fire,  do 


48 


CAKES. 


not  scrape  off  the  burnt  parts,  till  they  have 
grown  cold. 

Make  an  icing  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beaten  till  it  stands  alone,  and  twenty-four  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  the  best  loaf-sugar,  powdered,  and 
beaten  gradually  into  the  white  of  egg.  Flavour  it 
with  a  tea-spoonful  of  rose-water  or  eight  drops  of 
essence  of  lemon,  stirred  in  at  the  last.  Spread 
it  evenly  with  a  broad  knife,  over  the  top  of 
each  queen-cake,  ornamenting  them,  (while  the 
icing  is  quite  wet)  with  red  and  green  nonpareils, 
or  fine  sugar-sand,  dropped  on,  carefully,  with  the 
thumb  and  finger. 

When  the  cakes  are  iced,  set  them  in  a  warm 
place  to  dry  ;  but  not  too  near  the  fire,  as  that  will 
cause  the  icing  to  crack. 


POUND  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  sifted. 

One  pound  of  white  sugar,  powdered  and  sifted. 
One  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
Ten  eggs. 

Half  a  glass  of  wine  ^ 

Half  a  glass  of  brandy         >  mixed. 

Hylf  a  glass  of  rose-water  j 

Twelve  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 

A  table-spoonful  of  mixed  mace  and  cinnamon. 

A  nutmeg,  powdered. 

Pound  the  spice  and  sift  it.  There  should  be 
twice  as  much  cinnamon  as  mace.  Mix  the  cinna- 
mon, mace,  and  nutmeg  together. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  broad  pan,  or  wooden  bowl. 
Sift  the  powdered  sugar  into  a  large  deep  pan,  and 
cut  the  butter  into  it,  in  small  pieces.  If  the  weath- 
er is  very  cold,  and  the  butter  hard,  set  the  pan 
near  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  ;  but  if  the  butter  is 


CAKES. 


49 


too  warm,  the  cake  will  be  heavy.  Stir  the  butter 
and  sugar  together,  with  a  wooden  stick,  till  they 
are  very  light,  and  white,  and  look  like  cream. 

Beat  the  eggs  in  a  broad  shallow  pan  with  a 
wooden  egg-beater  or  whisk.  They  must  be  beat- 
en till  they  are  thick  and  smooth,  and  of  the  con- 
sistence of  boiled  custard. 

Pour  the  liquor  and  rose-water,  gradually,  into 
the  butter  and  sugar,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add, 
by  degrees,  the  essence  of  lemon  and  spice. 

Stir  the  egg  and  flour  alternately  into  the  butter 
and  sugar,  a  handful  of  flour,  and  about  two  spoon- 
fuls of  the  egg  (which  you  must  continue  to  beat  all 
the  time,)  and  when  all  is  in,  stir  the  whole  mix- 
ture very  hard,  for  near  ten  minutes. 

Butter  a  large  tin  pan,  or  a  cake-mould,  with  an 
open  tube  rising  from  the  middle.  Put  the  mix- 
ture into  it  as  evenly  as  possible.  Bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oven,  for  two,  three,  or  four  hours,  in 
proportion  to  its  thickness,  and  to  the  heat  of  the 
fire. 

When  you  think  it  is  nearly  done,  thrust  a  twig  or 
wooden  skewer  into  it,  down  to  the  bottom.  If  the 
stick  comes  out  clean  and  dry,  the  cake  is  almost 
baked.  When  quite  done,  it  will  shrink  from  the 
sides  of  the  pan,  and  cease  making  a  noise.  Then 
withdraw  the  coals  (if  baked  in  a  dutch  oven)  take 
off  the  lid,  and  let  the  cake  remain  in  the  oven  to 
cool  gradually. 

You  may  ice  it,  either  warm  or  cold. 


5 


5Q 


CAKES. 


i  .T/j#d,  i  fliiu  ifrii  Nil 

BLACK   CAKE,   OR   PLUM  CAKE. 


One  pound  of  flour,  sifted. 

One  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

One  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Twelve  eggs. 

Two  pounds  of  the  best  raisins. 
Two  pounds  of  currants. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  mixed  spice,  mace  and  cinnamon. 
Two  nutmegs,  powdered. 
A  large  glass  of  wine  ^ 


Half  a  glass  of  rose-water  j 
A  pound  of  citron. 

Pick  the  currants  very  clean,  and  wash  them, 
draining  them  through  a  cullender.  Wipe  them  in 
a  towel.  Spread  them  out  on  a  large  dish,  and 
set  them  near  the  fire  or  in  the  hot  sun  to  dry,  plac- 
ing the  dish  in  a  slanting  position.  Having  stoned 
the  raisins,  cut  them  in  half,  and  when  all  are  done, 
sprinkle  them  well  with  sifted  flour,  to  prevent 
their  sinking  to  the  bottom  of  the  cake.  When  the 
currants  are  dry,  sprinkle  them  also  with  flour. 

Pound  the  spice,  allowing  twice  as  much  cinna- 
mon as  mace.  Sift  it,  and  mix  the  mace,  nutmeg, 
and  cinnamon  together.  Mix  also  the  liquor  and 
rose-water,  in  a  tumbler  or  cup.  Cut  the  citron  in 
slips.  Sift  the  flour  into  a  broad  dish.  Sift  the 
sugar  into  a  deep  earthen  pan,  aud  cut  the  butter 
into  it.  Warm  it  near  the  fire,  if  the  weather  is  too 
cold  for  it  to  mix  easily.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream. 

Beat  the  eggs  as  light  as  possible.  Stir  them 
into  the  butter  and  sugar  alternately  with  the  flour. 
Stir  very  hard.  Add,  gradually,  the  spice  and 
liquor.  Stir  the  raisins  and  currants  alternately 
into  the  mixture,  taking  care  that  they  are  well 


A  large 


with  any  thing  more  appropriate  than  wITn 
account  of  a  remarkable  scene  which  took  placd 
in  Mr.  Beccher's  church  a  Sunday  or  two  pinceJ 
We  chanced  to  be  an  eye-witness  of  the  occur-l 
rence,  (says  the  Editor  of  Life  Illustrated,  frou 
which  paper  we  copy  the  account,)  but,  in-| 
stead  of  giving  our  own  impressions,  we  thini 
it  best  to  copy  the  literal  narrative  of  thd 
Herald's  reporter,  a  paper  that  can  not  be  sus-l 
pected  of  giving  an  unduly  favorable  coloring 
to  any  act  of  Henry  Ward  Beecher's. 

14 The  morning  sermon  over,"  says  the  Ileri 
aid,  "a  curious  scene  occurred.  Mr.  Beechef 
stated  that  he  was  about  to  do  something  wlrichl 
perhaps,  would  be  misunderstood,  and  suhjecl 
him  to  considerable  criticism  and  animadv 
sion.  He  read  the  following  from  the  12tl 
chapter  of  Matthew,  to  show  that  he  had 
precedent  in  the  conduct  of  Christ  for  what  hi 
was  about  to  do  : 

9.  And  when  he  was  departed  thence,  he  went  into  thei| 
synagogue. 

10.  And  behold,  there  was  a  man  which  had  his  han| 
withered.    And  they  asked  him,  saying  Is  it  lawful  to  he; 
on  the  Sabbath  day  ?  that  they  might  accuse  him. 

11.  And  he  said  unto  them,  What  man  shall  there  1 
among  you  that  shall  have  one  sheep,  and  if  it  fall  into  a  \ 
on  the  Sabbath  day,  will  he  not  lay  hold  on  it  ami  lift  it  out| 

12.  How  much  then  is  a  man  better  than  a  sheep  : 
Wherefore  it  is  lawful  to  do  well  on  the  Sabbath  day. 

13.  Then  saith  he  to  the  man,  Stretch  forth  thy  hand.- 


Eds.  Rural  : — The  following  recipes  I  have 
i  found  to  be  first  rate  : 

Mountain  Cake.  One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  4 
a  cup  of  butter,  4  a  cup  of  milk  or  water,  2  of 
flour.  Teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  4  teaspoon 
of  soda,  nutmeg. 

Jumbles.    One  lb.  of  butter,  1  of  sugar,  2 
of"  flour,  3  eggs,  4  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon 
I  of  soda,  roll  in  white  coffee  sugar.    This  will 
!  make  a  large  batch — if  a  small  quantity  be 
I  wanted,  take  proportionately  less  of  material. 

Ginger  Snaps.  One  cup  of  butter,  1  of  su- 
!  gar,  1  of  molasses,  4  cup  of  ginger,  teaspoon 
.  soda,  mix  stiff. 

A  Small  Sponge  Cake.  One  cup  of  sugar, 
;  4  cup  of  milk,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar, 
!  1  of  soda,  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Whigs.  Mix  4  a  lb.  of  sugar  with  6  oz. 
1  butter,  2  eggs,  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Stir  in  2 
•  lbs.  flour,  a  teacup  of  yeast,  milk  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter,  when  light  bake  in  cups. 

Rochester,  N.  Y.  Louise. 


Poor  Man's  Cake.  One  cup  sugar,  half  cup 
!  butter, one  do.  sour  cream, one  egg,  flour  enough 
!  to  make  a  good  batter,  half  teaspoonful  sale- 
I ratus. 


CAKES. 


51 


floured.  Stir  the  whole  as  hard  as  possible,  for 
ten  minutes  after  all  the  ingredients  are  in. 

Cover  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  large  tin  or 
earthen  pan,  with  sheets  of  white  paper  well  butter- 
ed, and  put  into  it  some  of  the  mixture.  Then 
spread  on  it  some  of  the  citron,  which  must  not  be 
cut  too  small.  Next  put  a  layer  of  the  mixture, 
and  then  a  layer  of  citron,  and  so  on  till  it  is  all  in, 
having  a  layer  of  the  mixture  at  the  top. 

This  cake  is  always  best  baked  in  a  baker's 
oven,  and  will  require  four  or  five  hours  in  propor- 
tion to  its  thickness. 

Ice  it,  next  day. 


SPURGE  CAKE. 

Twelve  e*rgs. 

Ten  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  dried  near  the  fire. 
A  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  powdered  and  sifted. 
Twelve  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 
A  grated  nutmeg. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  mace,  mixed. 

Beat  the  eggs  as  light  as  possible.  Eggs  for 
spunge  or  almond-cakes  require  more  beating 
than  for  any  other  purpose.  Beat  the  sugar,  by 
degrees,  into  the  eggs.  Beat  very  hard,  and  con- 
tinue to  beat  some  time  after  the  sugar  is  all  in. 

No  sort  of  sugar  but  loaf,  will  make  light  spunge- 
cake.  Stir  in,  gradually,  the  spice  and  essence  of 
lemon.  Then,  by  degrees  put  in  the  flour,  a  lit- 
tle at  a  time,  stirring  round  the  mixture  very  slowly 
with  a  knife.  If  the  flour  is  stirred  in  too  hard, 
the  cake  will  be  tough.  It  must  be  done  lightly 
and  gently,  so  that  the  top  of  the  mixture  will  be 
covered  with  bubbles.  As  soon  as  the  flour  is  all 
in,  begin  to  bake  it,  as  setting  will  injure  it. 


rj2 


CAKES. 


Put  it  in  small  tins,  well  buttered,  or  in  one 
large  tin  pan.  The  thinner  the  pans,  the  better 
for  spunge-cake.  Fill  the  small  tins  about  half 
full.  Grate  loaf-sugar  over  the  top  of  each,  before 
you  set  them  in  the  oven. 

Spunge-cake  requires  a  very  quick  oven,  partic- 
ularly at  the  bottom.  It  should  be  baked  as  fast 
as  possible,  or  it  will  be  tough  and  heavy,  however 
light  it  may  have  been  before  it  went  into  the  oven. 
It  is  of  all  cakes  the  most  liable  to  be  spoiled  in 
baking.  When  taken  out  of  the  tins,  the  cakes 
should  be  spread  on  a  sieve  to  cool.  If  baked  in 
one  large  cake,  it  should  be  iced. 

A  large  cake  of  twelve  eggs,  should  be  baked  at 
least  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

For  small  cakes,  ten  minutes  is  generally  suffi- 
cient. If  they  get  very;  much  out  of  shape  in  bak- 
ing, it  is  a  sign  that  the  oven  is  too  slow. 

Some  think  that  spunge-cakes  and  almond  cakes 
are  lighter,  when  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs 
are  beaten  in  separate  pans,  and  mixed  gently  to- 
gether before  the  sugar  is  beaten  into  them. 

If  done  separately  from  the  yolks,  the  whites 
should  be  beaten  till  they  stand  alone. 


ALMOND  CAKE. 

Two  ounces  of  blanched  bitter  almonds,  pounded  very  fine. 
Seven  ounces  of  flour,  sifted  and  dried. 
Ten  eggs. 

One  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  powdered  and  sifted. 
Two  table-spoonfuls  of  rose-water. 


Take  two  ounces  of  shelled  bitter  almonds,  or 
pe  ach-kernels.     Scald  them  in  hot  water,  and  as 


CAKES. 


53 


you  peel  them,  throw  them  into  a  bowl  of  cold  wa- 
ter. Then  wipe  them  dry,  and  pound  them  one 
by  one  in  a  mortar,  till  they  are  quite  fine  and 
smooth. 

Break  ten  eggs,  putting  the  yolks  in  one  pan  and 
the  whites  in  another.  Beat  them  separately  as 
light  as  possible,  the  whites  first,  and  then  the 
yolks. 

Add  the  sugar,  gradually,  to  the  yolks,  beating 
it  in  very  hard.  Then,  by  degrees,  beat  in  the 
almonds,  and  then  add  the  rose-water. 

Stir  half  the  whites  of  eggs,  into  the  yolks  and 
sugar.  Divide  the  flour  into  two  equal  parts,  and 
stir  in  one  half,  slowly  and  lightly,  till  it  bubbles  on 
the  top.  Then  the  other  half  of  the  white  of  egg, 
and  then  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  very  lightly. 

Butter  a  large  square  tin  pan,  or  one  made  of 
paste-board,  which  will  be  better.  Put  in  the  mix- 
ture, and  set  immediately  in  a  quick  oven,  which 
must  be  rather  hotter  at  the  bottom  than  at  the  top. 
Bake  it  according  to  the  thickness.  If  you  allow 
the  oven  to  get  slack,  the  cake  will  be  spoiled. 

Make  an  icing  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
twenty-four  tea-spoonfuls  of  loaf-sugar,  and  eight 
drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 

When  the  cake  is  cool,  mark  it  in  small  squares 
with  a  knife.  Cover  it  with  icing,  and  ornament  it 
while  wet,  with  nonpareils  dropped  on  in  borders, 
round  each  square  of  the  cake.  When  the  icing 
is  dry,  cut  the  cake  in  squares,  cutting  through  the 
icing  very  carefully  with  a  penknife.  Or  you  may 
cut  it  in  squares  first,  and  then  ice  and  ornament 
each  square  separately. 


5* 


34 


CAKES. 


FREXCII   ALMOND  CAKE. 

Six  ounces  of  shelled  sweet  almonds. 
Three  ounces  of  shelled  bitter  almonds,  or  peach  kernels. 
Three  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  dried  near  the  lire. 
Fourteen  eggs. 

One  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar. 
Twelve  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 


Blanch  the  almonds,  by  scalding  them  in  hot 
water.  Put  them  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water,  and 
wipe  them  dry,  when  you  take  them  put.  Pound 
them,  one  at  a  time,  in  a  mortar,  till  they  are  per- 
fectly smooth.  Mix  the  sweet  and  bitter  almonds 
together-  Prepare  them,  if  possible,  the  day  be- 
fore the  cake  is  made. 

Put  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs,  into  sepa- 
rate pans.  Beat  the  whites  till  they  stand  alone, 
and  then  the  yolks  till  they  are  very  thick. 

Put  the  sugar,  gradually,  to  the  yolks,  beating  it 
in  very  hard.  Add,  by  degrees,  the  almonds,  still 
beating  very  hard.  Then  put  in  the  essence  of 
lemon.  Next,  beat  in,  gradually,  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  continuing  to  beat  for  some  time  after 
they  are  all  in.  Lastly,  stir  in  the  flour,  as  slowly 
and  lightly,  as  possible. 

Butter  a  large  tin  mould  or  pan.  Put  the  cake 
in,  and  bake  it  in  a  very  quick  oven,  an  hour  or 
more,  according  to  its  thickness. 

The  oven  must  on  no  account  be  hotter  at  the 
top,  than  at  the  bottom. 

When  done,  set  it  on  a  sieve  to  cool. 

Ice  it,  and  ornament  it  with  nonpareils. 

These  almond  cakes  are  generally  baked  in  a 
turban-shaped  mould,  and  the  nonpareils  put  on, 
in  spots  or  sprigs. 


CAKES. 


55 


A  pound  of  almonds  in  the  shells  (if  the  shells 
are  soft  and  thin,)  will  generally  yield  half  a  pound 
when  shelled.  Hard,  thick-shelled  almonds,  sel- 
dom yield  much  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  pound, 
and  should  therefore  never  be  bought  for  cakes  or 
puddings. 

Bitter  almonds  and  peach-kernels  can  always  be 
purchased  with  the  shells  off. 


Families  should  always  save  their  peach-kernels, 
as  they  can  be  used  in  cakes,  puddings  and  custards. 


MACCAROONS. 

Haifa  pound  of  shelled  sweet  almonds. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  shelled  bitter  almonds. 

The  whites  of  three  eggs. 

Twenty-four  large  tea-spoonfuls  of  powdered  loaf-sugar. 
A  tea-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  large  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  nutmeg,  mace  and  cinnamon. 


Blanch  and  pound  your  almonds,  beat  them  very 
smooth,  and  mix  the  sweet  and  bitter  together  ; 
do  them,  if  you  can,  the  day  before  you  make  the 
rnaccaroons.  Pound  and  sift  your  spice.  Beat 
the  w  hites  of  three  eggs  till  they  stand  alone  ;  add 
tu  ihem,  very  gradually,  the  powdered  sugar,  a 
spoonful  at  a  time,  beat  it  in  very  hard,  and  put  in, 
by  degrees,  the  rose-water  and  spice.  Then  stir 
in,  gradually,  the  almonds.  The  mixture  must  be 
like  a  soft  dough  ;  if  too  thick,  it  will  be  heavy  ;  if 
too  thin,  it  will  run  out  of  shape.  If  you  find  your 
almonds  not  sufficient,  prepare  a  few  more,  and  stir 
them  in.  When  it  is  all  well  mixed  and  stirred, 
put  some  flour  in  the  palm  of  your  hand,  and  taking 


56 


CAKES. 


up  a  lump  of  the  mixture  with  a  knife,  roll  it  on 
your  hand  with  the  flour  into  a  small  round  ball ; 
have  ready  an  iron  or  tin  pan,  buttered,  and  lay  the 
maccaroons  in  it,  as  you  make  them  up.  Place 
them  about  two  inches  apart,  in  case  of  their  spread- 
ing. Bake  them  about  eight  or  ten  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven  ;  they  should  be  of  a  pale  brownish 
colour.  If  too  much  baked,  they  will  lose  their 
flavour  ;  if  too  little,  they  will  be  heavy.  They 
should  rise  high  in  the  middle,  and  crack  on  the 
surface.  You  may,  if  you  choose,  put  a  larger 
proportion  of  spice. 


APEES. 


A  pound  of  flour,  sifted. 
Haifa  pound  of  butter. 

A  glass  of  wine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  rose-water,  mixed. 
Haifa  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 
A  nutmeg,  grated. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  beaten  cinnamon  and  mace. 
Three  table-spoonfuls  of  carraway  seeds. 


Sift  the  flour  into  a  broad  pan,  and  cut  up  the 
butter  in  it.  Add  the  carraways,  sugar,  and  spice, 
and  pour  in  the  liquor  by  degrees,  mixing  it  well 
with  a  knife.  If  the  liquor  is  not  sufficient  to  wet 
it  thoroughly,  add  enough  of  cold  water  to  make  it  a 
stiff  dough.  Spread  some  flour  on  your  paste- 
board, take  out  the  dough,  and  knead  it  very  well 
with  your  hands.  Put  it  into  small  pieces,  and 
knead  each  separately,  then  put  them  all  together, 
and  knead  the  whole  in  one  lump.  Roll  it  out  in  a 
sheet  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  it  out 
in  round  cakes,  with  the  edge  of  a  tumbler,  or  a  tin 
of  that  size.    Butter  an  iron  pan,  and  lay  the  cakes 


CAKES. 


in  it,  not  too  close  together.  Bake  them  a  few 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  till  they  are  very 
slightly  coloured,  but  not  brown.  If  too  much  bak- 
ed, they  will  entirely  lose  their  flavour.  Do  not 
roll  them  out  too  thin. 


JUMBLES. 

Three  eggs. 

Half  a  pound  of  flour,  sifted. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 

Half  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  nutmeg  grated. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  mace  and  cinnamon. 


Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light.  Throw  them,  all  at  once,  into  the 
pan  of  flour.  Put  in,  at  once,  the  butter  and  su- 
gar, and  then  add  the  spice  and  rose-water.  If  you 
have  no  rose-water,  substitute  six  or  seven  drops  of 
strong  essence  of  lemon,  or  more,  if  the  essence  is 
weak.    Stir  the  whole  very  hard,  with  a  knife. 

Spread  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  and  flour 
your  hands  well.  Take  up  with  your  knife,  a  por- 
tion of  the  dough,  and  lay  it  on  the  board.  Roll  it 
lightly  with  your  hands,  into  long  thin  rolls,  which 
must  be  cut  into  equal  lengths,  curled  up  into  rings, 
and  laid  gently  into  an  iron  or  tin  pan,  buttered, 
not  too  close  to  each  other,  as  they  spread  in  bak- 
ing. Bake  them  in  a  quick  oven  about  five  min- 
utes, and  grate  loaf-sugar  over  them  when  cool. 


58 


CAKES. 


KISSES. 

One  pound  of  the  best  loaf  sugar ;  powdered  and  sifted. 

The  whites  of  four  eggs. 

Twelve  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 

A  tea-cup  of  currant  jelly. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  till  they  stand  alone. 
Then  beat  in,  gradually,  the  sugar,  a  tea-spoonful 
at  a  time.  Add  the  escence  of  lemon,  and  beat 
the  whole  very  hard. 

Lay  a  wet  sheet  of  paper  on  the  bottom  of  a 
square  tin  pan.  Drop  on  it,  at  equal  distances,  a 
small  tea-spoonful  of  stiff  currant  jelly.  With  a 
large  spoon,  pile  some  of  the  beaten  white  of  egg 
and  sugar,  on  each  lump  of  jelly,  so  as  to  cover  it 
entirely.  Drop  on  the  mixture  as  evenly  as  possi- 
ble, so  as  to  make  the  kisses  of  a  round  smooth 
shape. 

Set  them  in  a  cool  oven,  and  as  soon  as  they  are 
coloured,  they  are  done.  Then  take  them  out,  and 
place  them  two  bottoms  together.  Lay  them  light- 
ly on  a  sieve,  and  dry  them  in  a  cool  oven,  till  the 
two  bottoms  stick  fast  together,  so  as  to  form  one 
ball  or  oval. 

SPANISH  BUNS. 

Four  eggs. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  sifted. 

Half  a  pound  of  powdered  while  sugar. 

Two  wine-glasses  and  a  half  of  rich  milk. 

Five  ounces  of  fresh  butter. 

A  wine-glass  and  a  half  of  the  best  yeast. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  grated  nutmeg. 

A  large  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  mace  and  cinnamon. 

Sift  half  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  broad  pan,  and 
sift  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  separately,  into  a  deep 


CAKES. 


59 


plate,  and  set  it  aside.  Put  the  milk  into  a  soup- 
plate,  cut  up  the  butter,  and  set  it  on  the  stove  or 
near  the  fire  to  warm,  but  do  not  let  it  get  too  hot. 
When  the  butter  is  very  soft,  stir  it  all  through  the 
milk  with  a  knife,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Beat 
the  eggs  very  light  and  mix  the  milk  and  butter 
with  them,  all  at  once  ;  then  pour  all  into  the  pan 
of  flour.  Put  in  the  spice,  and  the  rose-water,  or 
if  you  prefer  it,  eight  drops  of  essence  of  lemon  ; 
Add  the  yeast,  of  which  an  increased  quantity  will 
be  necessary,  if  it  is  not  very  strong  and  fresh. 
Stir  the  whole  very  hard,  with  a  knife.  Add  the 
sugar  gradually.  If  the  sugar  is  not  stirred  in  slow- 
ly, a  little  at  a  time,  the  buns  will  be  heavy.  Then, 
by  degrees,  sprinkle  in  the  remaining  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  flour.  Stir  all  well  together  ;  butter  a 
square  iron  pan,  and  put  in  the  mixture.  Cover  it 
with  a  cloth,  and  set  it  near  the  fire  to  rise.  It  will 
probably  not  be  light  in  less  than  five  hours.  When 
it  is  risen  very  high,  and  is  covered  with  bubbles, 
bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven,  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  or  more,  in  proportion  to  its  thickness. 

When  it  is  quite  cool,  cut  it  in  squares,  and 
grate  loaf-sugar  over  them.  This  quantity  will 
make  twelve  or  fifteen  buns. 

They  are  best  the  day  they  are  baked. 

You  may,  if  you  choose,  bake  them  separately, 
in  small  square  tins,  adding  to  the  batter  half  a 
pound  of  currants  or  chopped  raisins,  well  floured, 
and  stirred  in  at  the  last. 

In  making  buns,  stir  the  yeast  well  before  you 
put  it  in,  having  first  poured  ofY  the  beer  or  thin  part 
from  the  top.    If  your  yeast  is  not  good,  do  not  at- 


60 


CAKES. 


tempt  to  make  buns  with  it,  as  they  will  never 
be  light. 

Buns  may  be  made  ina  plainer  way,  with  the 
following  ingredients,  mixed  in  the  above  manner. 


Half  a  pound  of  flour,  sifted  into  a  pan. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour,  sifted  inaplate;  and  set  aside  to  sprin- 
kle in  at  the  last. 
Three  eggs,  well  beaten. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 
Three  wine-glasses  of  milk. 
A  wine-glass  and  a  half  of  the  best  yeast. 
A  large  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  cut  up,  and  warmed  in  the  milk. 


RUSK. 

A  quarier  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
One  pound  of  flour  sifted. 
One  egg. 

Three  wine-glasses  of  milk. 

A  wine-glass  and  a  half  of  the  best  yeast. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 

Sift  your  flour  into  a  pan.  Cut  up  the  butter  in 
the  milk,  and  warm  them  a  little,  so  as  to  soften  the 
butter,  but  not  to  melt  it  entirely.  Beat  your  egg  ; 
pour  the  milk  and  butter  into  your  pan  of  flour, 
then  the  egg,  then  the  rose-water  and  spice,  and 
lastly  the  yeast.   Stir  all  well  together  with  a  knife. 

Spread  some  flour  on  your  paste-board  :  lay  the 
dough  on  it,  and  knead  it  well.  Then  divide  it  in- 
to small  pieces  of  an  equal  size,  and  knead  each 
piece  into  a  little  thick  round  cake.  Butter  an  iron 
pan,  lay  the  cakes  in  it,  and  set  them  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  Prick  the  tops  with  a  fork.  When 
they  are  quite  light,  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CAKES. 


61 


INDIAN  POUND  CAKE. 


Eight  eggs. 

The  weight  of  eight  eggs  in  powdered  sugar. 
The  weight  of  six  eggs  in  Indian  meal,  sifted. 
Haifa  pound  of  butter. 

One  nutmeg,  grated,— or  a  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon. 


Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light.  Stir  the  meal  and  eggs,  alternate- 
ly, into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Grate  in-  the  nutmeg. 
Stir  all  well.  Butter  a  tin  pan,  put  in  the  mixture, 
and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CUP  CAKE. 

Five  eggs. 

Two  large  tea-cups  full  of  molasses. 

The  same  of  brown  sugar,  rolled  fine. 

The  same  of  fresh  butter. 

One  cup  of  rich  milk. 

Five  cups  of  flour,  sifted. 

Half  a  cup  of  powdered  allspice  and  cloves. 

Half  a  cup  of  ginger. 


Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  milk,  and  warm  them 
slightly.  Warm  also  the  molasses,  and  stir  it  into 
the  milk  and  butter  :  then  stir  in,  gradually,  the 
sugar,  and  set  it  away  to  get  cool. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the 
mixture  alternately  with  the  flour.  Add  the  ginger 
and  other  spice,  and  stir  the  whole  very  hard. 

Butter  small  tins,  nearly  fill  them  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  bake  the  cakes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

6 


i 


C,2 


CAKES. 


IiOAP  CAKE. 


Two  pounds  of  sifted  flour;  setting  aside  half  a  pound  to  sprinkle  in 

at  the  last. 
One  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
One  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 
Four  eggs. 

One  pound  of  raisins,  stoned,  and  cut  in  half. 
One  pound  of  currants,  washed  and  dried. 
Half  a  pint  of  milk. 
A  glass  of  wine. 
A  glass  of  brandy. 

A  table-spoonful  of  mixed  spice,  mace,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 
Half  a  pint  of  the  best  brewer's  yeast  }  or  more,  if  the  yeast  is  not 
very  strong. 

Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  milk,  and  warm  it  till  the 
butter  is  quite  soft  ;  then  stir  it  together,  and  set  it 
away  to  cool.  It  must  not  be  made  too  warm. 
After  you  have  beaten  the  eggs,  mix  them  with  the 
butter  and  milk,  and  stir  the  whole  into  the  pan  of 
flour.  Add  the  spice  and  liquor,  and  stir  in  the 
sugar  gradually.  Having  poured  off  the  thin  part 
•from  the  top,  stir  the  yeast,  and  pour  it  into  the  mix- 
ture.   Then  sprinkle  in  the  remainder  of  the  flour. 

Have  ready  the  fruit,  which  must  be  well  floured, 
stir  it  gradually  into  the  mixture.  Butter  a  large 
tin  pan,  and  put  the  cake  into  it.  Cover  it,  and  set 
it  in  a  warm  place  for  five  or  six  hours  to  rise. 
When  quite  light,  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Three  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 

One  pound  of  butter. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  brandy. 

A  small  tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash  dissolved  in  water. 

Four  table-spoonfuls  of  can-away  seeds. 


Cut  the  butter  into  the  flour.  Add  the  sugar  and 
carravvay  seeds.    Pour  in  the  brandy,  and  then  the 


SUGAR  BISCUITS. 


CAKE?. 


63 


milk.  Lastly,  put  in  the  pearl-ash.  Stir  all  well 
with  a  knife,  and  mix  it  thoroughly,  till  it  be- 
comes a  lump  of  dough. 

Flour  your  paste-board,  and  lay  the  dough  on  it. 
Knead  it  very  well.  Divide  it  into  eight  or  ten 
pieces,  and  knead  each  piece  separately.  Then 
put  them  all  together,  and  knead  them  very  well  in 
one  lump- 
Cut  the  dough  in  half,  and  roll  it  out  into  sheets, 
about  half  an  inch  thick.  Beat  the  sheets  of  dough 
very  hard,  on  both  sides,  with  the  rolling-pin.  Cut 
them  out  into  round  cakes  with  the  edge  of  a  tum- 
bler. Butter  iron  pans,  and  lay  the  cakes  in  them. 
Bake  them  of  a  very  pale  brown.  If  done  too 
much  they  will  lose  their  taste. 

These  cakes  kept  in  a  stone  jar,  closely  covered 
from  the  air,  will  continue  perfectly  good  for  seve- 
ral months. 


MILK  BISCUITS. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 
Half  a  pouud  of  butter. 
Two  eggs. 

Six  wine-glasses  of  milk. 

Two  wine-glasses  of  the  best  brewer's  yeast,  or  three  of  good  home- 
made yeast. 

Cut  the  butter  into  the  milk,  and  warm  it  slightly 
on  the  top  of  the  stove,  or  near  the  fire.  Sift  the 
flonr  into  a  pan,  and  pour  the  milk  and  butter  into  it. 
Beat  the  eggs,  and  pour  them  in  also.  Lastly,  the 
yeast.    Mix  all  well  together  with  a  knife. 

Flour  your  paste-board,  put  the  lump  of  dough 
on  it,  and  knead  it  very  hard.   Then  cut  the  dough 


i 


64 


CAKES. 


in  small  pieces,  and  knead  them  into  round  balls. 
Stick  the  tops  of  them  with  a  fork. 

Lay  them  in  buttered  pans  and  set  them  to  rise. 
They  will  probably  be  light  in  an  hour.  When 
they  are  quite  light,  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  bake  them. 


They  are  best  when  quite  fresh. 


BUTTER  BISCUITS. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 
Two  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 
Half  a  pint  of  milk,  or  cold  water. 
A  salt-spoonful  of  salt. 


Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  flour,  and  put  the  salt 
to  it.  Wet  it  to  a  stiff  dough  with  the  milk  or  wa- 
ter.   Mix  it  well  with  a  knife. 

Throw  some  flour  on  the  paste-board,  take  the 
dough  out  of  the  pan,  and  knead  it  very  well. 

Roll  it  out  into  a  large  thick  sheet,  and  beat  it 
very  hard  on  both  sides  with  the  rolling-pin.  Beat 
it  a  long  time. 

Cut  it  out  with  a  tin,  or  cup,  into  small  round 
thick  cakes.  Beat  each  cake  on  both  sides,  with 
the  rolling-pin.  Prick  them  with  a  fork.  Put 
them  in  buttered  pans,  and  bake  them  of  a  light 
brown  in  a  slow  oven. 


CARES. 


GINGERBREAD  NUTS. 


Two  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 
One  pound  of  fresh  butter. 
Half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar. 
One  quart  of  sugar-house  molasses. 
Two  ounces  of  ginger,  or  more,  if  it  is  not  very  strong. 
Twelve  dozen  grains  of  allspice,) 


Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  flour.  Spread  the  su- 
gar on  your  paste-board,  and  crush  it  very  fine  with 
the  rolling-pin.  Put  it  to  the  flour  and  butter,  and 
then  add  the  ginger  and  other  spice.  Wet  the 
whole  with  the  molasses,  and  stir  all  well  together 
with  a  knife. 

Throw  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  take  the 
dough  (a  large  handful  at  a  time)  and  knead  it  in 
separate  cakes.  Then  put  all  together,  and  knead 
it  very  hard  for  a  long  time,  in  one  large  lump.  Cut 
the  lump  in  half,  roll  it  out  in  two  even  sheets,  about 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  out  in  little  cakes,  with 
a  very  small  tin,  about  the  size  of  a  cent.  Lay 
them  in  buttered  pans,  and  bake  them  in  a  moder- 
ate oven,  taking  care  they  do  not  scorch,  as  gin- 
gerbread is  more  liable  to  burn  than  any  other 
cake. 

You  may,  if  you  choose,  shape  the  gingerbread 
nuts,  by  putting  flour  in  your  hand,  taking  a  very 
small  piece  of  the  dough,  and  rolling  it  into  a  little 
round  ball. 

6* 


Six  dozen  cloves, 
Half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon, 


CAKES. 


COMMON  GINGERBREAD. 

A  pint  of  molasses. 

Half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar. 

One  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

Two  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour  sifted. 

A  pint  of  milk. 

A  small  tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash. 
A  tea-cup  full  of  ginger. 

Cut  the  butter  into  the  flour.  Crush  the  sugar 
with  a  rolling-pin,  and  throw  it  into  the  flour  and 
butter.    Add  the  ginger. 

Having  dissolved  the  pearl-ash  in  the  milk,  stir 
the  milk  and  molasses  alternately  into  the  other  in- 
gredients. Stir  it  very  hard  for  a  long  time,  till  it 
is  quite  light. 

Put  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  take  out 
small  portions  of  the  dough,  and  make  it  with  your 
hand  into  long  rolls.  Then  curl  up  the  rolls  into 
round  cakes,  or  twist  two  rolls  together,  or  lay  them 
in  straight  lengths  or  sticks  side  by  side,  and  touching 
each  other.  Put  them  carefully  in  buttered  pans, 
and  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  not  hot  enough 
to  burn  them.  If  they  should  get  scorched,  scrape 
off  with  a  knife,  or  grater,  all  the  burnt  parts,  before 
you  put  the  cakes  away. 

You  can,  if  you  choose,  cut  out  the  dough  with 
tins,  in  the  shape  of  hearts,  circles,  ovals,  &c.  or 
you  may  bake  it  all  in  one,  and  cut  it  in  squares 
when  cold. 

If  the  mixture  appears  to  be  too  thin,  add,  grad- 
ually, a  little  more  sifted  flour. 


CAKES. 


LAFAYETTE  GINGERBREAD. 

Five  eggs. 

Haifa  pound  of  brown  sugar. 

Half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

A  pint  of  sugar-house  molasses. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  flour. 

Four  table-spoonfuls  of  ginger. 

Two  large  sticks  of  cinnamon,  ^ 

Three  dozen  grains  of  allspice,  >  powdered  and  sifted. 

Three  dozen  of  cloves,  j 

The  juice  and  grated  peel  of  two  large  lemons. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  well.  Pour  the  molasses,  at  once,  into 
the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  ginger  and  other 
spice,  and  stir  all  well  together. 

Put  in  the  egg  and  flour  alternately,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Stir  the  whole  very  hard,  and  put  in  the 
lemon  at  the  last.  When  the  whole  is  mixed,  stir 
it  till  very  light. 

Butter  an  earthen  pan,  or  a  thick  tin  or  iron  one, 
and  put  the  gingerbread  in  it.  Bake  it  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  an  hour  or  more,  according  to  its  thick- 
ness.   Take  care  that  it  does  not  burn. 

Or  you  may  bake  it  in  small  cakes,  on  little  tins. 

Its  lightness  will  be  much  improved  by  a  small 
tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash  dissolved  in  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  milk,  and  stirred  lightly  in  at  the  last.  Too 
much  pearl-ash  will  give  it  an  unpleasant  taste. 

If  you  use  pearl-ash,  you  must  omit  the  lemon, 
as  its  taste  will  be  entirely  destroyed  by  the  pearl- 
ash.  You  may  substitute  for  the  lemon,  some  rai- 
sins and  currants,  wTell  floured,  to  prevent  their 
sinking. 

This  is  the  finest  of  all  gingerbread,  but  should 
not  be  kept  long,  as  in  a  few  days  it  becomes  very 
hard  and  stale. 


CAKES 


A  DOVER  CAKE. 

Half  a  pint  of  milk. 

A  small  tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash. 

One  pound  of  sifted  flour. 

One  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 

Six  eggs. 

One  glass  of  brandy. 

Half  a  glass  of  rose-water. 

One  grated  nutmeg. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 


Dissolve  the  pearl-ash  in  the  milk.  Stir  the  su- 
gar and  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add  to  it,  gradually, 
the  spice  and  liquor.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light, 
and  stir  them  into  the  butter  and  sugar,  alternately, 
with  the  flour.  Add,  gradually,  the  milk,  and  stir 
ihe  whole  very  hard. 

Butter  a  large  tin  pan,  and  put  in  the  mixture. 
Bake  it  two  hours  or  more  in  a  moderate  oven.  If 
not  thick,  an  hour  or  an  hour  and  a  half  will  be  suf- 
ficient. 

Wrap  it  in  a  thick  cloth,  and  keep  it  from  the 
air,  and  it  will  continue  moist  and  fresh  for  two 
weeks.    The  pearl-ash  will  give  it  a  dark  colour. 

It  will  be  much  improved  by  a  pound  of  raisins, 
stoned  and  cut  in  half,  and  a  pound  of  currants, 
well  washed  and  dried. 

Flour  the  fruit  well,  and  stir  it  in  at  the  last. 


CAKES. 


69 


CRULLERS. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

Six  eggs,  or  seven,  if  they  are  small. 
Two  pounds  of  flour,  sifted. 
A  grated  nutmeg. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 
A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

Cut  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  the  sugar  and 
spice,  and  tnix  them  well  together. 

Beat  the  eggs,  and  pour  them  into  the  pan  of 
flour  fcc.  Add  the  rose-water,  and  mix  the  whole 
into  a  dough.  If  the  eggs  and  rose-water  are  not 
found  sufficient  to  wet  it,  add  a  very  little  cold  wa- 
ter.   Mix  the  dough  very  well  with  a  knife. 

Spread  some  flour  on  your  paste-board,  take  the 
dough  out  of  the  pan,  and  knead  it  very  well.  Cut 
it  into  small  pieces,  and  knead  each  separately. 
Put  all  the  pieces  together,  and  knead  the  whole  in 
one  lump.  Roll  it  out  into  a  large  square  sheet, 
about  half  an  inch  thick.  Take  a  jagging-iron,  or, 
if  you  have  not  one,  a  sharp  knife  ;  run  it  along 
the  sheet,  and  cut  the  dough  into  long  narrow 
slips.  Twist  them  up  in  various  Torms.  Have 
ready  an  iron  pan  with  melted  lard.  Lay  the  crul- 
lers lightly  in  it,  and  fry  them  of  a  light  brown, 
turning  them  with  a  knife  and  fork,  so  as  not  to 
break  them,  and  taking  care  that  both  sides  are 
equally  done. 

When  sufficiently  fried,  spread  them  on  a  large 
dish  to  cool,  and  grate  loaf-sugar  over  them. 

Crullers  may  be  made  in  a  plainer  way,  with  the 
best  brown  sugar  (rolled  very  fine,)  and  without 
spice  or  rose-water. 


70 


CAKES. 


They  can  be  fried,  or  rather  boiled,  in  a  deep 
iron  pot.  They  should  be  done  in  a  large  quantity 
of  lard,  and  taken  out  with  a  skimmer  that  has  holes 
in  it,  and  held  on  the  skimmer  till  the  lard  drains 
from  them.  If  for  family  use,  they  can  be  made 
an  inch  thick. 


DOUGH  NUTS. 

Three  pounds  of  sifted  flour. 
A  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 
Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter. 
Four  eggs. 

Half  a  large  tea-cup  full  of  best  brewer's  yeast. 

A  pint  and  a  half  of  milk. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 

A  grated  nutmeg. 

A  table-spoonful  of  rose-water. 

Cut  up  the  butter  in  the  flour.  Add  the  sugar, 
spice,  and  rose-water.  Beat  the  eggs,  very  light, 
and  pour  them  into  the  mixture.  Add  the  yeast, 
(half  a  tea-cup,  or  two  wine-glasses  full,)  and  then 
stir  in  the  milk  by  degrees,  so  as  to  make  it  a  soft 
dough.    Cover  it,  and  set  it  to  rise. 

When  quite  light,  cut  it  in  diamonds  with  a  jag- 
ging-iron,  or  a  sharp  knife,  and  fry  them  in  lard. 
Grate  loaf  sugar  over  them  when  done. 


WAFFLES. 

Six  eggs. 

A  pint  of  milk. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar. 

A  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  sifted. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon. 


Warm  the  milk  slightly.  Cut  up  the  butter  in  it, 
and  stir  it  a  little.    Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  pour 


Cakes. 


71 


them  into  the  butter  and  milk.  Sprinkle  in  half 
the  flour,  gradually.  Stir  in  the  sugar,  by  degrees, 
and  add  the  spice.  Stir  in,  gradually,  the  remain- 
der of  the  flour,  so  that  it  becomes  a  thick  batter. 

Heat  your  waffle-iron  ;  then  grease  it  well,  and 
pour  in  some  of  the  batter.  Shut  the  iron  tight, 
and  bake  the  waffle  on  both  sides,  by  turning  the 
iron. 

As  the  wraffles  are  baked,  spread  them  out  sepa- 
rately on  a  clean  napkin.  When  enough  are  done 
for  a  plate-full,  lay  them  on  a  plate  in  two  piles, 
buttering  them,  and  sprinkling  each  with  beaten 
cinnamon. 


SOFT  MUFFINS. 

Five  eggs. 

A  quart  of  milk. 

Two  ounces  of  butter. 

A  large  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 

Two  large  table  spoonfuls  of  brewer's  yeast,  or  four  of  home-made 
yeast. 

Enough  of  sifted  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Warm  the  milk  and  butter  together,  and  add  to 
them  the  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir 
them  into  the  milk  and  butter.  Then  stir  in  the 
yeast,  and  lastly,  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick 
batter. 

Cover  the  mixture,  and  set  it  to  rise,  in  a  warm 
place,  about  three  hours. 

When  it  is  quite  light,  grease  your  baking-iron, 
and  your  muffin  rings.  Set  the  rings  on  the  iron, 
and  pour  the  batter  into  them.  Bake  them  a  light 
brown.  When  you  split  them  to  put  on  the  butter, 
do  not  cut  them  with  a  knife,  but  pull  them  open 
with  your  hands.  Cutting  them  while  hot  will 
make  them  heavy. 


72 


CAKES. 


INDIAN   BATTER  CAKES. 

A  quart  of  sifted  indian  meal,  )  .  j 
A  handful  of  wheat  flour,  sifted,  5  mixea- 
Three  egs,  well  beaten. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  fresh  brewer's  yeast,  or  four  of  home-made 

yeast. 

A  large  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 
A  quart  of  milk. 

Make  the  milk  quite  warm,  and  then  put  into  it 
the  yeast  and  salt,  stirring  them  well.  Beat  the 
eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  mixture.  Then,  grad- 
ually, stir  in  the  flour  and  indian  meal. 

Cover  the  batter,  and  set  it  to  rise  four  or  five 
hours.  Or  if  the  weather  is  cold,  and  you  want 
the  cakes  for  breakfast,  you  may  mix  the  batter  late 
the  night  before. 

Should  you  find  it  sour  in  the  morning,  dissolve  a 
small  tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash  in  as  much  water  as 
will  cover  it,  and  stir  it  into  the  batter,  letting  it  sit 
afterwards  at  least  half  an  hour.  This  will  take  off 
the  acid. 

Grease  your  baking-iron,  and  pour  on  it  a  ladle- 
full  of  the  batter.  When  brown  on  one  side,  turn 
the  cake  on  the  other. 


FLANNEL  CAKES  OR  CRUMPETS. 

Two  pounds  of  flour;  sifted. 
Four  egg's. 

Three  table  spoonfuls  of  the  best  brewer's  yeast,  or  four  and  a  half 

of  home-made  yeast. 
A  pint  of  milk. 

Mix  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  with  the  flour,  and  set 
the  pan  before  the  fire.     Then  warm  the  milk, 


CAKES. 


and  stir  it  into  the  flour,  so  as  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  the 
yeast.  Add  the  eggs  and  yeast  to  the  batter,  and 
beat  all  well  together.  If  it  is  too  stiff,  add  a  little 
more  warm  milk. 

Cover  the  pan  closely,  and  set  it  to  rise  near  the 
fire.    Bake  it,  when  quite  light. 

Have  your  baking-iron  hot.  Grease  it,  and  pour 
on  a  ladle-full  of  batter.  Let  it  bake  slowly,  and 
when  done  on  one  side,  turn  it  on  the  other. 

Butter  the  cakes,  cut  them  across,  and  send 
them  to  table  hot. 


ROLLS. 


Three  pints  of  flour,  sifted. 
Two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt. 

Four  table-spoonfuls  of  the  best  brewer's  yeast,  or  six  of  home-made 
yeast. 

A  pint  of  luke-warm  water. 

Half  a  pint  more  of  warm  water,  and  a  little  more  flour  to  rmr  in 
before  the  kneading. 


Mix  the  salt  with  the  flour,  and  make  a  deep 
hole  in  the  middle.  Stir  the  warm  water  into  the 
yeast,  and  pour  it  into  the  hole  in  the  flour.  Stir  it 
with  a  spoon  just  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  and 
sprinkle  some  flour  over  the  top.  Cover  the  pan, 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  several  hours. 

When  it  is  light,  add  half  a  pint  more  of  luke- 
warm water ;  and  make  it,  with  a  little  more  flour, 
into  a  dough.    Knead  it  very  well  for  ten  minutes. 


74 


CAKES. 


Then  divide  it  into  small  pieces,  and  knead  each 
separately.  Make  them  into  round  cakes  or  rolls. 
Cover  them,  and  set  them  to  rise  about  an  hour  and 
a  half. 

Bake  them,  and  when  done,  let  them  remain  uft 
the  oven,  without  the  lid,  for  about  ten  minutes. 


♦ 


PART  THE  THIRD. 


SWEETMEATS, 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS. 

In  preparing  sugar  for  sweetmeats,  let  it  be  en- 
tirely dissolved,  before  you  put  it  on  the  fire.  If 
you  dissolve  it  in  water,  allow  about  half  a  pint  of 
water  to  a  pound  of  sugar. 

If  you  boil  the  sugar  before  you  add  the  fruit  to 
it,  it  will  be  improved  in  clearness,  by  passing  it 
through  a  flannel  bag.  Skim  off  the  brown  scum, 
all  the  time  it  is  boiling. 

If  sweetmeats  are  boiled  too  long,  they  lose  their 
avour,  and  become  of  a  dark  colour. 

If  boiled  too  short  a  time,  they  will  not  keep  well. 

You  may  ascertain  when  jelly  is  done,  by  drop- 
ping a  small  spoonful  into  a  glass  of  water. 

If  it  spreads  and  mixes  with  the  water,  it  requires 
more  boiling.  If  it  sinks  in  a  lump  to  the  bottom, 
it  is  sufficiently  done. 

Raspberry  jelly  requires  more  boiling  than  any 
other  sort.    Black  currant  jelly  less. 

7* 


79 


SWEETMEATS. 


APPLE  JEL.LY. 

Take  the  best  pippin,  or  bell-flower  apples.  No 
others  will  make  good  jelly.  Pare,  core,  and  quar- 
ter them.  Lay  them  on  a  brass  or  bell-metal  ket- 
tle, and  put  to  them  as  much  water  only,  as  will 
cover  them,  and  as  much  lemon-peel  as  you  choose. 
Boil  them  till  they  are  soft,  but  not  till  they  break. 
Drain  oft'  the  water  through  a  cullender,  and  mash 
the  apples  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Put  them 
into  a  jelly  bag,  set  a  deep  dish  or  pan  under  it,  and 
squeeze  out  the  juice. 

To  every  pint  of  juice,  allow  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar,  broken  up,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 
Put  the  apple-juice,  the  sugar,  and  the  lemon-juice, 
into  the  preserving  kettle.  Boil  it  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  skimming  it  well.  Take  it  immediately  from 
the  kettle,  and  pour  it  warm  into  your  glasses,  but 
not  so  hot  as  to  break  them.  When  cold,  cover 
each  glass  with  white  paper  dipped  in  brandy,  and 
tie  it  down  tight  with  another  paper.  Keep  them 
in  a  cool  place. 

Quince  Jelly  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  but  do 
not  pare  them.    Quarter  them  only. 


RED  CURRANT  JELXY. 

Wash  your  currants,  drain  them,  and  pick  them 
from  the  stalks.  Mash  them  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon.  Put  them  in  a  jelly-bag,  and  squeeze  it  till 
all  the  juice  is  pressed  out. 


SWEETMEATS. 


79 


To  every  pint  of  juice,  allow  a  pound  of  the  best 
loaf-sugar.  Put  the  juice  and  the  sugar  into  your 
kettle,  and  boil  it  fiteen  minutes,  skimming  it  all  the 
while.  Pour  it  warm  into  your  glasses,  set  it  for  m 
several  hours  in  the  sun,  and  when  cold,  tie  it  up 
with  brandy  paper.  Jellies  should  never  be  allow- 
ed to  get  cold  in  the  kettle.  If  boiled  too  long, 
they  will  lose  their  flavour,  and  become  of  a  dark 
colour. 

Strawberry,  raspberry,  blackberry,  and  grape 
jelly  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  and  with 
the  same  proportion  of  loaf-sugar. 

Red  currant  jelly  may  also  be  made  in  a  very 
simple  manner,  by  putting  the  currants  whole  into 
the  kettle,  with  the  sugar  ;  allowing  a  pound  of  su- 
gar to  a  pound  of  currants.  Boil  them  together 
fifteen  minutes,  skimming  carefully.  Then  pour 
them  into  a  sieve,  with  a  pan  under  it.  Let  them 
drain  through  the  sieve  into  the  pan,  pressing  them 
down  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 

Take  the  jelly,  while  warm,  out  of  the  pan,  and 
put  it  into  your  glasses.  Tie  it  up  with  brandy 
paper  when  cold. 


BLACK  CURRANT  JELLY. 

Pick  the  currants  from  the  stalks,  wash  and  drain 
them.  Mash  them  soft  with  a  spoon,  put  them  in  a 
bag,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  To  each  pint  of 
juice,  allow  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar. 
Put  the  juice  and  sugar  into  a  preserving  kettle, 
and  boil  them  about  ten  minutes,  skimming  them 


80 


SWEETMEATS. 


well.  Take  it  immediately  out  of  the  kettle.  Put 
it  warm  into  your  glasses.  Tie  it  up  with  brandy 
papers. 

The  juice  of  black  currants  is  so  very  thick,  that 
it  requires  less  sugar  and  less  boiling  than  any  oth- 
er jelly. 


GOOS  E  r>  E  R  U  V  JELLY. 


Cut  the  gooseberries  in  half,  (they  must  be 
green)  and  put  them  in  a  jar  closely  covered.  Set 
the  jar  in  an  oven,  or  pot  tilled  with  boiling  water. 
Keep  the  water  boiling  round  the  jar  till  the  goose- 
berries are  soft,  take  them  out,  mash  them  with  a 
spoon,  and  put  them  into  a  jelly  bag  to  drain. 
When  all  the  juice  is  squeezed  out,  measure  it,  and 
to  a  pint  of  juice,  allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar. 
Put  the  juice  and  sugar  into  the  preserving  kettle, 
and  boil  them  fifteen  minutes,  skimmins;  them  care- 
fully.  Put  the  jelly  warm  into  your  glasses.  Tie 
them  up  with  brandy  paper. 

Cranberry  jelly  is  made  in  the  same  manner. 


JELLY  OF  WILD  GRAPES. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stems,  wash  and  drain 
them.  Mash  them  with  a  spoon.  Put  them  in  the 
preserving  kettle,  and  cover  them  closely  with  a 
large  plate.  Boil  them  ten  minutes.  Then  pour 
them  into  your  jelly  bag,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice. 


SWEETHEATS. 


II 


Allow  a  pint  of  juice  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the 
sugar  and  juice  into  your  kettle,  and  boil  them  fif- 
teen minutes,  skimming  them  well. 

Fill  your  glasses  while  the  jelly  is  warm,  and  tie 
them  up  with  brandy  papers. 


PEACH  JELLY. 

Wipe  the  wool  off  your  peaches,  (which  should 
be  free-stones,  and  not  too  ripe)  and  cut  them  in 
quarters.  Crack  the  stones,  and  break  the  kernels 
small. 

Put  the  peaches  and  the  kernels  into  a  covered 
jar,  set  them  in  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  till 
they  are  soft. 

Strain  them  through  a  jelly-bag,  till  all  the  juice 
is  squeezed  out.  Allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  to 
a  pint  of  juice.  Put  the  sugar  and  juice  into  a 
preserving  kettle,  and  boil  them  fifteen  minutes, 
skimming  carefully. 

Put  the  jelly  warm  into  your  glasses,  and  when 
cold,  tie  them  up  with  brandy  paper. 

Plum,  and  green  gage  jelly  may  be  made  in  the 
same  manner,  with  the  kernels,  which  greatly  im- 
prove the  flavour. 


UHIII  Mil  QUI5CKS. 


Pare  and  core  your  quinces,  carefully  taking  out 
the  parts  that  are  knotty  and  defective.  Cut  ihem 
into  quarters,  or  into  round  slices.    Put  them  into 


82 


SWEETMEATS. 


a  preserving  kettle,  and  cover  them  with  the  parings 
and  a  very  little  water.  Lay  a  large  plate  over 
them  to  keep  in  the  steam,  and  boil  them  till  they 
aie  tender. 

Take  out  the  quinces,  and  strain  the  liquor 
through  a  bag.  To  every  pint  of  liquor,  allow  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Boil  the  juice  and  sugar  to- 
gether, about  ten  minutes,  skimming  it  well.  Then 
put  in  the  quinces,  and  boil  them  gently  twenty  min- 
utes. When  the  sugar  seems  to  have  completely 
penetrated  them,  take  them  out,  put  them  in  a  glass 
jar,  and  pour  the  juice  over  them  warm.  Tie  them 
up,  when  cold,  with  brandy  paper. 


In  preserving  fruit  that  is  boiled  first  without  the 
sugar,  it  is  generally  better  (after  the  first  boiling)  to 
let  it  stand  till  next  day  before  you  put  the  sugar 
to  it. 


PRESERVED  PIPPINS. 

Pare  and  core  some  of  the  largest  and  finest  pip- 
pins. Put  them  in  your  preserving  kettle,  with 
some  lemon-peel,  and  all  the  apple-parings.  Adda 
very  little  water,  and  cover  them  closely.  Boil 
them  till  they  are  tender,  taking  care  they  do  not 
burn.  Take  out  the  apples,  and  spread  them  on  a 
large  dish  to  cool.  Pour  the  liquor  into  a  bag,  and 
strain  it  well.  Put  it  into  your  kettle  with  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  and  add  lemon 
juice  to  your  taste.  Boil  it  five  minutes,  skimming 
it  well.  Then  put  in  the  whole  apples,  and  boil 
them  slowly  half  an  hour,  or  till  they  are  quite  soft 


SWEETMEATS. 


83 


and  clear.  Put  them,  with  the  juice,  into  your  jars, 
and  when  quite  cold,  tie  them  up  with  brandy  paper. 

Preserved  apples  are  only  intended  for  present 
use,  as  they  will  not  keep  long. 

Pears  may  be  done  in  the  same  way,  either  whole 
or  cut  in  half.  They  may  be  flavoured  either  with 
lemon  or  cinnamon,  or  both.  The  pears  for  pre- 
serving should  be  green. 


PRESERVED  PEACHES. 

Take  the  largest  and  finest  free-stone  peaches, 
before  they  are  too  ripe.  Pare  them,  and  cut  them 
in  halves  or  in  quarters.  Crack  the  stones,  and 
take  out  the  kernels,  and  break  them  in  pieces. 
Put  the  peaches,  with  the  parings  and  kernels,  into 
your  preserving  kettle,  with  a  very  little  water. 
Boil  them  till  they  are  tender.  Take  out  the  peach- 
es and  spread  them  on  a  large  dish  to  cool.  Strain 
the  liquor  through  a  bag  or  sieve.  Next  day, 
measure  the  juice,  and  to  each  pint  allow  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar.  Put  the  juice  and  sugar  into  the  ket- 
tle with  the  peaches,  and  boil  them  slowly  half  an 
hour,  or  till  they  are  quite  soft,  skimming  all  the 
time.  Take  the  peaches  out,  put  them  into  your 
jars,  and  pour  the  warm  liquor  over  them.  When 
cold,  tie  them  up  with  brandy  paper. 

If  boiled  too  long,  they  will  look  dull,  and  be  of 
a  dark  colour. 

If  you  do  not  wish  the  juice  to  be  very  thick,  do 
not  put  it  on  to  boil  with  the  sugar,  but  first  boil  the 


A 


84 


SWEETMEATS. 


sugar  alone,  with  only  as  much  water  as  will  dis- 
solve it,  and  skim  it  well.  Let  the  sugar,  in  all  ca- 
ses, be  entirely  melted  before  it  goes  on  the  fire. 
Having  boiled  the  sugar  and  water,  and  skimmed  it 
to  a  clear  syrup,  then  put  in  your  juice  and  fruit  to- 
gether, and  boil  them  till  completely  penetrated 
with  the  sugar. 


PRESERVED   CRAB  APPLES. 

Wash  your  fruit.  Cover  the  bottom  of  your 
preserving  kettle  with  grape-leaves.  Put  in  the 
apples.  Hang  them  over  the  fire,  with  a  very  lit- 
tle water,  and  cover  them  closely.  Do  not  allow 
them  to  boil,  but  let  them  simmer  gently  till  they 
are  yellow.  Take  them  out,  and  spread  them  on 
a  large  dish  to  cool.  Pare  and  core  them.  Put 
them  again  into  the  kettle,  with  fresh  vine-leaves 
under  and  over  them,  and  a  very  little  water.  Hang 
them  over  the  fire  till  they  are  green.  Do  not  let 
them  boil. 

Take  them  out,  weigh  them,  and  allow  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar  to  a  pound  of  crab-apples.  Put  to 
the  sugar  just  water  enough  to  dissolve  it.  When 
it  is  all  melted,  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  boil  and  skim 
it.  Then  put  in  your  fruit,  and  boil  the  apples  till 
they  are  quite  clear  and  soft.  Put  them  in  jars, 
and  pour  the  warm  liquor  over  them.  When  cold, 
tie  them  up  with  brandy  paper. 


PRESERVED  PLUMS. 


Cut  your  plums  in  half,  (they  must  not  be  quite 
ripe,)  and  take  out  the  stones.    Weigh  the  plums, 


SWEETMEATS. 


and  allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit. 
Crack  the  stones,  take  out  the  kernels  and  break 
them  in  pieces.  Boil  the  plums  and  kernels  very 
slowly  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  in  as  little  water  as 
possible.  Then  spread  them  on  a  large  dish  to 
cool,  and  strain  the  liquor. 

Next  day  make  your  syrup.  Melt  the  sugar  in 
as  little  water  as  will  suffice  to  dissolve  it,  (about 
half  a  pint  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar)  and  boil 
it  a  few  minutes,  skimming  it  till  quite  clear.  Then 
put  in  your  plums  with  the  liquor,  and  boil  them 
fifteen  minutes.  Put  them  in  jars,  pour  the  juice 
over  them  warm,  and  tie  them  up,  when  cold,  with 
brandy  paper. 

Syrups  may  be  improved  in  clearness,  by  adding 
to  the  dissolved  sugar  and  water,  some  white  of 
egg  very  well  beaten,  allowing  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  it  very  hard, 
and  skim  it  well,  that  it  may  be  quite  clear  before 
you  put  in  your  fruit. 


PRESERVED  STRAWBERRIES. 

Weigh  the  strawberries  after  you  have  picked  off 
the  stems.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  a  pound 
of  loaf-sugar,  which  must  be  powdered.  Strew 
half  of  the  sugar  over  the  strawberries,  and  let 
them  stand  in  a  cold  place  two  or  three  hours. 
Then  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  over  a  slowr 
fire,  and  by  degrees  strew  on  the  rest  of  the  sugar. 
Boil  them  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  skim  them 
well. 

8 


86 


SWEETMEATS. 


Put  them  in  wide-mouthed  bottles,  and  when 
cold,  seal  the  corks. 

If  you  wish  to  do  them  whole,  take  them  care- 
fully out  of  the  syrup,  (one  at  a  time)  while  boiling. 
Spread  them  to  cool  on  large  dishes,  not  letting  the 
strawberries  touch  each  other,  and  when  cool,  re- 
turn them  to  the  syrup,  and  boil  them  a  little  longer. 
Repeat  this  several  times. 

Keep  the  bottles  in  dry  sand,  in  a  place  that  is 
cool  and  not  damp. 

Gooseberries,  currants,  raspberries,  cherries  and 
grapes  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner.  The 
stones  must  be  taken  from  the  cherries  (which 
should  be  morellas,  or  the  largest  and  best  red 
cherries)  and  the  seeds  should  be  extracted  from 
the  grapes  with  the  sharp  point  of  a  penknife. 
Gooseberries,  grapes,  and  cherries,  require  longer 
boiling  than  strawberries,  raspberries  or  currants. 


PRESERVED  CRANBERRIES. 

Wash  your  cranberries,  weigh  them,  and  to  each 
pound  allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Dissolve  the 
sugar  in  a  very  little  water,  (about  half  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter to  a  pound  of  sugar)  and  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a 
preserving  kettle.  Boil  it  near  ten  minutes,  skim- 
ming it  well.  Then  put  in  your  cranberries,  and 
boil  them  slowly,  till  they  are  quite  soft,  and  of  a 
fine  colour. 

Put  them  warm  into  your  jars  or  glasses,  and  tie 
them  up  with  brandy  paper,  when  cold. 

All  sorts  of  sweetmeats  keep  better  in  glasses, 
than  in  stone  or  earthen  jars.     When  opened  for 


SWEETMEATS. 


87 


use,  they  should  be  tied  up  again  immediately,  as 
exposure  to  the  air  spoils  them. 

Common  glass  tumblers  are  very  convenient  for 
jellies,  and  preserved  small  fruit.  White  jars  are 
better  than  stone  or  earthen,  for  large  fruit. 


PRESERVED  PUMPKINS. 

Cut  slices  from  a  fine  high-coloured  pumpkin, 
and  cut  the  slices  into  chips  about  the  thickness  of 
a  dollar.  The  chips  should  be  of  an  equal  size, 
six  inches  in  length,  and  an  inch  broad.  Weigh 
them,  and  allow  to  each  pound  of  pumpkin  chips,  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Have  ready  a  sufficient  num- 
ber of  fine  lemons,  pare  off  the  yellow  rind,  and  lay 
it  aside.  Cut  the  lemons  in  half,  and  squeeze  the 
juice  into  a  bowl.  Allow  a  jill  of  juice  to  each 
pound  of  pumpkin. 

Put  the  pumpkin  into  a  broad  pan,  laying  the  su- 
gar among  it.  Pour  the  lemon-juice  over  it.  Cov- 
er the  pan,  and  let  the  pumpkin  chips,  sugar  and 
lemon-juice,  set  all  night. 

Early  in  the  morning  put  the  whole  into  a  pre- 
serving pan,  and  boil  all  together  (skimming  it  well) 
till  the  pumpkin  becomes  clear  and  crisp,  but  not 
till  it  breaks.  It  should  have  the  appearance  of 
lemon-candy.  You  may,  if  you  choose,  put  some 
lemon-peel  with  it,  cut  in  very  small  pieces. 

Half  an  hour's  boiling  (or  a  little  more)  is  gener- 
ally sufficient. 

When  it  is  done,  take  out  the  pumpkin,  spread 
it  on  a  large  dish,  and  strain  the  syrup  through  a  bag. 
Put  the  pumpkin  into  your  jars  or  glasses,  pour 
the  syrup  over  it,  and  tie  it  up  with  brandy  paper. 


ss 


SWEETMEATS. 


If  properly  done,  this  is  a  very  fine  sweetmeat. 
The  taste  of  the  pumpkin  will  be  lost  in  that  of  the 
lemon  and  sugar,  and  the  syrup  is  particularly 
pleasant.  It  is  eaten  withoutcream,  like  preserved 
ginger.  It  may  be  laid  on  puff-paste  shells,  after 
they  ire  baked. 


PRESERVED  PINE-APPLE. 

.  Pare  your  pine-apples,  and  cut  them  in  thin  round 
slices.  Weigh  the  slices,  and  to  each  pound  allow 
a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  a 
very  small  quantity  of  water,  stir  it,  and  set  it  over 
the  fire  in  a  preserving-kettle.  Boil  it  ten  minutes, 
skimming  it  well.  Then  put  in  it  the  pine-apple 
slices,  and  boil  them  till  they  are  clear  and  soft,  but 
not  till  they  break.  About  half  an  hour  (or  perhaps 
less  time)  will  suffice.  Let  tnem  cool  in  a  large 
dish  or  pan,  before  you  put  them  into  your  jars, 
which  you  must  do  carefully,  lest  they  break.  Pour 
the  syrup  over  them.  Tie  them  up  with  brandy- 
paper. 


RASPBERRY  JAM. 

Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit. 
Mash  the  raspberries,  and  put  them  with  the  sugar 
into  your  preserving  kettle.  Boil  it  slowly  for  an 
hour,  skimming  it  well.  Tie  it  up  with  brandy  paper. 

All  jams  are  made  in  the  same  manner. 


FINIS. 


A 


7  ;  ^ 


• 


^^^^  yjLJA^^ 


A 


/ 


>  c  sy^,  ~sy~*  ,i  y^  y^ 
y, 


r o^q^l  Ca.y^ 


a  a»-  <y~- 


{fit*         ty /  ^ 


Pi 


I 


1 1 


i 


/(  c    <  <</>  j  c  /  A<y  >  << 

c  <</;     c/    J^  ^'^'</V' 


h ,  A^- 


-^-x 


^L^^s--^ 

^w&r>^^.  *  ^^^^^^ 


I 


jC^^s       ^C*.         >    .  ^*L^£^. 


ISA. 


y,  aa^l 


SA~   {  //. A^Of -< 


»  * 


/*;><S«  ,      /'"/f"      *      <-S*yO   sSs^/l  S*^r^f , 


A/. 


s-/  AA<-    /' j  /ss-s  *«g 


'A,  ^  ^A^Ay-  I 


A 


\  >■/>«>  ^  ^ 


<<v6A,  (our /  , 

.  y  Ar  At.  Jxt  i^n  « 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


cats  th  ^  in  the  P°ck<*  -di- 

book  shtld  h  °"  °r  bef°re  Which  «* 
should  be  returned  to  the  Library 

Pjease  do  not  remove  cards  from  „„, 


B.P.L 


