.t'^if/r-M&wfim 


SHILLING'    COOKERY 

roR 

THE   PEOPLE: 


EMBKACING 


AN  ENTIEELY  NEW  SYSTEM  OF  PLAIN  COOKERY 
AND  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY. 


By  ALEXIS   SOYER, 

AUTHOR  OP  "  THE  MODERN  HOUSEWIFE," 
ETC.  ETC. 


"Religion  feed.?  the  soul,  Education  the  mind,  Food  the  body." 

Soter's  Hixiory  o/F&od, 


Eba  ^untixzp  mii^  &mu)i  W^onpun^. 


LOIS  DDK: 

EOUTLEDGE,  WARNE,  AND  ROUTLEDGE, 

FAKRINGDON    STREKT. 

ITEW  YORK :  56,  WALKER  Sl?REET. 

1860. 

iTIie  Author  of  this  Work  reserves  the  right  cf  translating  it.'] 


'^^^s^t 


SATIIiL  AND  EDWABDS,  PRIIfTERS,  CHANDO&  STKEETy 
COVBNT  GAKDEH". 


M»  •  • 


»•«»       '*"«*• 


TO  THE  EiaHT  HONOURABLE 

THE   EARL    OF    SHAFTESBURY, 


ETC.  ETC.  ETC. 


My  Lord, 

The  kind  condescension  which  permits 
the  dedication  of  this  work  to  one  of  such  eminent 
philanthropic  sentiments  as  your  Lordship,  has  a  claim 
upon  my  most  profound  gratitude,  and  more  than  repays 
me  for  the  time  and  study  I  have  devoted  to  its  production 

With  the  highest  consideration, 

I  have  the  honour  to  be, 
Your  Lordship's  most  humble  and 
obedient  servant, 

ALEXIS  SOYER 


PREFACE 

TO    THE    110^=    THOUSAND. 


It  is  with  the  most  profound  gratitude  that  I  have  once 
more  to  thank  the  British  public  for  their  extraordinary 
and  ever  increasing  patronage ;  extraordinary  is  indeed 
the  only  word  appKcable  to  the  success  of  this  my  last 
work,  which  has  actually  attained  its  hundred  and  tenth 
thousand  in  less  than  four  months. 

In  this,  the  last  edition  of  10,000  copies,  completing 
the  above  wonderful  number,  I  have  been  induced  by 
some  friends  to  make  my  appearance  at  the  head  of  th@ 
work  as  I  am  now  in  my  ninth  lustre.  The  majority 
of  those  friends  being  ladies,  and  making  it  a  point  of 
honour  never  to  refuse  anything  in  my  power  to  those 
charming  members  of  society,  I  immediately  went  to  my 
friend,  Mr.  Hogg,  the  eminent  photographer  of  West 
Strand,  who  in  a  few  seconds  produced  a  facsimile  of 

Yours  most  gratefully  and  devotedly, 

A.  SOYEE  in  the  year  18M 


CONTENTS. 


iNTKODXTCTIOir, 

Letter  •  .•  •  • 

Letter  .  •  •  • 

Letter  .  •  •  • 

I  Soups  in  Iron  Saucepan  or  Sfcewpan       • 
I  Gridiron  .  .  .  • 

Fisli  on  Gridiron  .  •  • 

How  to  Boil  all  kinds  of  Fish    .  • 

Fish  in  Tin-pan  in  Oven  ,  • 

Fried  Fish 

The  Three-legged  Iron-pot 
Important  Observations  on  Curing  Hams  and  Bsu^on 
Lamb    .  .  .  .  • 

Ox-liveT  as  used  in  France 
French  Pot-au-feu 

Important  Remarks  on  Cod-liver  Oil 
Carthusian  of  Meat  and  Vegetables 
General  Ignorance  ef  the  Poor  in  Cooking 
The  Gridiron  and  Frying-pan     . 
Important  Remarks  on  Steak  and  Rumpsteak 
Introduction  to  Frying-pan 
Fowls  .  .  ,  , 

Curious  Effects  of  Imagination  . 
Introduction  to  Baking  Stewpan  • 

Hints  on  the  Pig  .  •  ^ 

On  Roasting      .... 
How  to  Roast 

On  the  Economy  of  Roasting  by  Gas,  Note 
Cottage  Roasting  .  •  . 

Time-table  for  Roasting  .  . 

On  Meat  in  Baker's  Oven  .  • 

A  few  Hints  on  Baking  Meat     •  «. 

An  Improved  Baking-dish.         •  • 

A  Series  of  Receipts  on  Baked  Meats      • 
Meat  Puddings  ,  .  • 

Meat  Pies  .... 

Vegetables 

General  Lesson  on  the  Cooking  of  Vegetables 
Plant  called  the  Thousand  Heads 
Eggs     . 

Omelettes  or  Fraise       •  •  • 

On  Pastry         .  •  •  • 


fjuass 


CONTENTS* 

PAGB 

National  Frencli  Cake,  or  Galette           .            .            .            .125 

Introduction  to  Sweet  and  Savoury  Pies 

.     126 

Sweet  and  Fruit  Puddings 

.     128 

Observations  on  Bottled  Preserves 

;    134 

Stewed  Fruits    . 

.     140 

Sweet  and  Fruit  Cakes 

.     142 

Bread   .... 

.     146 

Sauces              «            .            •            « 

149 

Salads      .        «            •            . 

»     155 

Relishes            -^            •            • 

»     159 

Mushrooms        .             .             , 

.      ib. 

Culinary,  Aliscellaneous 

.     161 

Pickles 

.     166 

A  few  Hints  on  Coffee,  Tea,  &c. 

ib. 

Beverages          •             .             .            < 

168 

Series  of  New  and  Cheap  Drinks            , 

170 

On  Marketing   .            .             .            , 

ib. 

Kitchen  Requisites        .             •            « 

174 

On  the  Selection  of  Vegetables  •            • 

175 

Soyer's  Aerial  Cooking  Stove     .            •            • 

ib. 

IMPORTANT  OBSERVATIONS. 


First,  most  of  the  receipts,  having  been  especially  written  for  the 
various  ordinary  kitchen  utensils,  some  of  them  may  appear  to  the 
reader  to  be  repetitions,  which  is  not  the  case,  as  the  same  food  may 
be  used,  yet  each  process  will  differ  one  from  the  other,  from  having 
been  cooked  in  a  different  manner. 

Secondly,  to  obviate  the  reading  of  two  or  three  receipts  to  be  able 
to  execute  one,  I  have  made  each  receipt  in  itself  as  complete  as 
possible,  as  regards  seasoning  and  proportion,  and  the  few  references  I 
unavoidably  make  will,  after  a  little  practice,  become  familiar  to  my 
readers. 

Many  of  the  receipts  may  appear  to  you  rather  lengthy,  but  I 
want  to  draw  your  attention  to  the  fact,  that  they  are  more  than 
receipts — indeed,  I  may  call  them  plain  lessons,  some  containing  a 
number  of  receipts  in  one. 

In  some  cookery  books  many  receipts  are  explained  in  few  lines, 
which  at  first  sight  gives  to  the  thing  the  appearance  of  simplicity  ; 
but  when  acted  on  by  the  uninitiated  are  found  totally  impracticable. 

By  my  plan  my  readers  may  read  and  prepare  the  contents  of  two 
or  three  lines  at  a  time,  so  that  when  they  get  at  the  end  of  a  lesson,, 
their  dish  will  be  found  well  seasoned  and  properly  cooked. 


INTRODUCTORY  LETTERS. 


Dear  Eloise, 

More  than  a  year  has  now  elapsed 
since  I  wrote  to  you,  with  a  promise  that  I  would  send 
you  such  receipts  as  should  be  of  use  to  the  artisan, 
mechanic,  and  cottager.  The  time  has,  however,  passed 
so  quickly,  that  I  was  not  aware  of  its  hasty  flight,  until 
I  took  up  the  last  edition  of  our  "Housewife."  But 
still,  dearest,  I  must  say  I  have  not  lost  any  time ;  for  you 
will  find  that  my  letters,  which  have  conveyed  my  receipts 
from  time  to  time,  have  been  dated  from  almost  every 
county  in  the  United  Kingdom, 

In  the  course  of  my  peregrinations,  I  have  made  a 
point  of  visiting  the  cottages  and  abodes  of  the  industrious 
classes  generally,  and  have  also  closely  examined  the  pecu- 
liarities and  manners  which  distinguish  each  county,  as 
well  as  the  different  kinds  of  labour;  and  I  have  viewed 
with  pleasure  the  exertions  made  by  philanthropic  indi- 
viduals to  improve  the  morals  of  the  labouring  class,  and 
render  their  dwellings  more  comfortable.  But  still  I  have 
found  a  great  want  of  knowledge  in  that  one  object  which 
produces  almost  as  much  comfort  as  all  the  rest  put  together, 
viz.,  the  means  of  making  the  most  of  that  food  which  the 
great  Architect  of  the  Heavens  has  so  bountifully  spread 
before  us  on  the  face  of  the  globe. 


S  INTRODUCTORY  USTTBRS. 

Those  who  visit  these  humble  abodes  to  inculcate  the 
divine  precepts  of  the  Saviour  of  mankind,  do  but  half  the 
great  work,  unless  they  at  the  same  time  show  how  those 
things  which  the  Almighty  has  created  as  food  for  man 
can  be  employed  towards  his  nourishment. 

In  some  of  my  letters,  my  dear  friend,  I  think  I  have 
fient  you  a  description  of  some  scenes  I  witnessed  in  the 
course  of  my  rambles,  especially  in  Ireland,  resulting  from 
a  want  of  knowledge,  all  of  which  bears  a  moral;  and 
what  a  high  feeling  of  delight  and  satisfaction  it  will  be 
to  us,  should  we  find  that  the  result  of  our  laboin-  is 
crowned  with  success,  in  ameliorating  the  conditions  of 
these  classes;  for  believe  me,  I  was  right  when  I  stated 
that  the  morals  of  a  people  greatly  depend  on  their  food 
and  wherever  the  home  of  an  individual,  in  whatever  cla^s 
of  society  he  may  move,  is  made  comfortable  and  happy, 
the  more  moral  and  religious  will  that  person  be. 


1 


Dearest  Hortense, 

I  highly  approve  of  your  plan ; 
it  is  time  that  it  was  put  into  action.  I  am  fearfal  that 
our  friends,  the  public,  to  whom  we  promised,  some  four 
years  since,  a  work  like  the  present,  will  have  become 
impatient ;  but  they  will  be  gainers  by  the  delay,  as  by 
your  visits  to  the  various  parts  of  the  United  Kingdom, 
you  have  obtained  that  insight  into  the  domestic  arrange- 
ments of  the  class  of  persons  for  whom  it  is  intended,  that 
could  not  be  obtained  by  any  other  means. 


IKTRODUCTORY   LETTERS.  S 

Your  new  plan  of  writing  a  series  of  receipts  peculiarly 
adapted  for  such  humble  utensils  as  the  gridiron,  frying- 
pan,  iron  pan,  and  black  pot,  is  at  once  original,  and 
cannot  fail  of  being  very  effective;  for  no  matter  how 
humble  or  poor  the  dwelling,  one  of  those  faithfal 
servants  are  sure  to  be  found  at  its  post ;  and  I  do  not 
doubt  but  that,  under  your  tuition,  they  will  prove  of 
greater  value  to  the  public  at  large  than  they  hitherto 
have  been. 

If  a  person,  after  purchasing  this  work  for  a  shilling, 

\  had  to  lay  out  five  or  six  more  in  kitchen  utensils  before 

!  he  could  cook  by  it,  it  would  be  a  great  drawback  on 
its  worth;  but  by  your  happy  and  simple  style,  you  have 
so  successfully  avoided  all  complicated  matters  in  its 
pages,  that  nothing  will  be  requisite  but  the  aforesaid 
simple  kitchen  implements  to  bring  it  into  action. 

I  also  perceive,   with  pleasure,  that  you  have   not 

<  omitted  the  slightest  article  of  cheap  food  of  any  descrip- 
tion, which,  with  the  numerous  receipts  you  give  for 
dressing  the  same,  must  prove  a  great  blessing  to  many, 
and  only  require  to  be  introduced  to  the  notice  of  the 
public  to  form  a  part  of  their  daily  diet. 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  men  of  science  do  not  interest 

I  themselves  more  than  they  do  on  a  subject  of  such  vast 
magnitude  as  this ;  for  I  feel  confident  that  the  food  of 
a  country  might  be  increased  at  least  one-third,  if  the 
culinary  science  was  properly  developed,  instead  of  its 

I  being  slighted  as  it  is  now.  I  myself  think  it  worthy 
the  attention  of  a  peer  of  the  realm ;  for,  as  you  justly 
observe,  the  morals  of  a  country  greatly  depend  on  the 


INTRODUCTOIIY   LETTERS. 


production  and  preparation  of  its  food,  and  most  heartilj 
do  I  re-echo  your  sentiments. 


My  dearest  Friend, 

You  are  right.  Cookery,  in  our  era, 
has  been  thought  beneath  the  attention  of  men  of  science ; 
and  yet,  was  there  ever  a  political,  commercial,  or  even  a 
domestic  event,  but  what  always  has  been,  and  always  will 
be,  celebrated  either  by  a  banquet  or  a  dinner?  And  pray, 
who  is  answerable  for  the  comfort  and  conviviality  of  the 
guests  of  such  festivals  but  the  cook,  who  has  been  in- 
trusted with  such  important  duties  1  The  selection  of  good 
and  proper  beverages  will,  of  course,  greatly  assist  the 
cook's  endeavours;  but  these  may  be  purchased  months, 
or  even  years,  before  you  require  them,  which  would  of 
course  give  you  an  ample  chance  of  remedying  any  error ; 
tvhile  a  dinner  is  the  creation  of  a  day  and  the  success  of 
51  moment.  Therefore  you  will  perceive  that  nothing  more 
disposes  the  heart  to  amicable  feeling  and  friendly  trans- 
actions, than  a  dinner  well  conceived  and  artistically 
prepared. 

In  ancient  times,  a  cook,  especially  if  a  man,  was  looked 
upon  a^  a  distinguished  member  of  society  j  while  now  hr 
is,  in  the  opinion  of  almost  every  one,  a  mere  menial. 

Still  there  are  a  few  who  highly  appreciate  the  know- 
ledge he  possesses,  especially  in  the  higher  circles,  who  I 
have  classified  cookery  as  a  high  art.     For  example,  let 
as   see  what  one  of  the  greatest  chemists  of  the  daj- 


INTRODUCTORY   LETTERS.  O 

(Liebig)  says  on  this  imperishable  subject,  in  his  valuable 
T^ork,  "  The  Chemistry  of  Food,"  that 

"  Among  all  the  arts  known  to  man  there  is  none  which  enjoys 
a  juster  appreciation,  and  the  products  of  which  are  more 
universally  admired,  than  that  which  is  concerned  in  the  pre- 
paration of  our  food.  Led  by  an  instinct,  which  has  almost 
reached  the  dignity  of  conscious  knowledge,  as  the  unerring 
guide,  and  by  the  sense  of  taste,  which  protects  the  health,  the 
experienced  cook,  with  respect  to  the  choice,  the  admixture,  and 
the  preparation  of  food,  has  made  acquisitions  surpassing  all 
that  chemical  and  physiological  science  have  done  in  regard  to 
the  doctrine  or  theory  of  nutrition.  In  soup  and  meat  sauces, 
he  imitates  the  gastric  juice;  and  by  the  cheese  which  closes  tha 
banquet,  he  assists  the  action  of  the  dissolved  epithelium  of  the 
stomach.  The  table,  supplied  with  dishes,  appears  to  the 
observer  like  a  machine,  the  parts  of  which  are  harmoniously 
fitted  together,  and  so  arranged  that,  whv^n  brought  into  action, 
a  maximum  of  effect  may  be  obtained  b^  the  theory  of  them. 
The  able  culinary  artist  accompanies  the  sanguineous  matter 
with  those  which  promote  the  process  of  solution  and  sanguifi- 
cation, in  due  proportion ;  he  avoids  all  kinds  of  unnecessary 
stimuli,  such  as  do  not  act  in  restoring  the  equilibrium ;  and  he 
provides  the  due  nourishment  for  the  child  or  the  weak  old  man, 
as  well  as  for  the  strong  of  both  sexes.'* 

Such  is  the  high  eulogium  paid  to  culinary  science  by 
that  learned  man;  and  perhaps  there  is  no  one  more  able 
of  appreciating  its  value  than  him.  Therefore  I  do  not 
yet  despair  of  seeing  the  day  -when  that  science,  like 
others,  will  have  its  qualified  professors.  I  now  close  our 
labours  for  the  present,  and  wait  with  anxiety  the  first 
proof,  which  on  receiving  I  will  immediately  correct  auc? 
forward  to  you. 


COOKERY   FOR  THE  PEOPLE, 


SOUPS,  IN  IRON  SAUCEPAN, 

OR  STEWPAN. 

SIMPLIFIED  STOCK  FOE  SOUPS,  GEAYIES,  AND 

PLAIN  SAUCES. 

Eloise, — Perhaps  you  are  not  aware  of  the  reason  why  the  great 
Uiajority  of  people  in  this  country  are  opposed  to,  and  even  accused 
of  not  lilting,  soup ;  the  simple  reason  is,  that  every  receipt  described 
in  most  Cookery  Books,  is  so  complicated  and  expensive,  that  they 
cannot  afford  either  the  money,  time,  or  attention,  to  prepare  it.  I 
will  therefore  endeavour,  in  this  little  book,  to  obviate  that  difficulty, 
by  simplifying  the  receipts,  and  reduce  it  to  a  system  alike  quicl^^ 
nutritious,  wholesome,  and  economical;  and  thus  soup  may  form  a 
part  of  the  daily  fare  of  every  dinner  table. 

Please  pay  particular  attention  to  the  follov»ring  receipt,  for  when 
you  are  perfect  in  it,  and  can  make  it  quick  and  well,  almost 
every  sort  of  soup  can  be  made  from  it,  and  it  will  often  be  referred 
to  in  different  sauces  and  dishes. 

1.  Stoch  for  Clear  Soup.  First  Lesson. — Cut  two  pounds 
of  knuckle  or  scrag  of  veal  into  small  pieces,  place  them  in  the 
iron  pot  or  ste^^^pan,  witk  two  ounces  of  salt  butter  or  drippingi 
two  ounces  of  v  n  bacon  cut  small,  three  teaspoonfuk  of  salt, 
half  a  spoonful  of  pepper,  a  gill  of  water,  three  middle-sized,  or 
six  ounces  of,  onions  sliced.  Put  on  the  fire ;  when  b'oiling,  stit 
round  with  a  spoon  for  about  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  forms  a 
wtiitisli  thick  gravy  at  the  bottom,  or  gets  rather  dry,  then  add 
live  pints  of  hot  or  cold  water ;  when  boiling,  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  skim  it  well,  pass  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  it  v/ill  be  found  clear  and  ready  for  use  for  the 
following  soups.     Only  one  third  of  this  quantity  need  be  ir^de^ 


8  eoups. 

In  ease  bacon  or  liam  cannot  be  obtained,  use  half  a  pound  mors 
meat  mid  a  little  more  salt. 

Tlie  meat  not  being  overstewed,  will  be  found  excellent  eaten 
plain,  or  with  parsley  and  butter,  or  any  sauce. 

2.  Second  Lesson. —  Proceed  exactly  as  E'o.  1.  Add  t^vo 
cloves  and  about  two  ounces  of  carrot,  and  tlie  same  of  turnip, 
leeks,  celery,  or  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  one  of  tbem,  if  you 
cannot  get  the  variety.  To  add  more  zest  to  the  flavour,  add 
the  smallest  quantity  of  thyme,  winter  savory,  or  a  bay  leaf. 
You  are,  no  doubt,  aware  that  at  present,  in  most  market  towns, 
an  assorted  lot  of  vegetables  m.ay  be  obtained  at  one  penny  per 
plate,  and  sometim.es  at  one  halfpenny.  This  second  lesson  is 
very  important,  as  it  gives  you  the  key  whereby  you  may  vary 
the  flavour  of  every  kind  of  soup. 

Note.  This  broth  is  of  a  nice  white  colour,  and  should  it  be 
required  to  look  like  sherr}^  wine,  add  sufiicieiit  colouring,  (sc-e 
No.  453),  or  half  a  burnt  onion  when  it  is  making :  these  in  most 
large  cities  are  now  bocomiiig  common,  and  may  be  procured  at  the 
grocers,  at  the  cost  of  eightpence  the  ponnd.  They  will  go  a  great 
way,  and  if  kept  in  a  dry  place  will  last  for  years. 

3.  Brown  Gravies.-— Tha  following  is  very  good  for  brovrn 
sauce,  and  also  for  every  kind  of  roast  meat,  game,  or  poultry; 
and  a  gill  of  it  may  be  used  to  give  a  colour  to  any  kind  of 
broth,  instead  of  colouring  or  burnt  onions.  As  there  is  a  little 
difficulty  to  mxake  it  properly,  it  should  only  be  done  on  particular 
occasions. 

Grease  the  bottom  of  the  pot  with  about  two  ounces  of  fat, 
butter,  or  dripping;  cut  four  onions  in  thick  slices  crosswaj'-s,  lay 
them  on  the  bottom,  and  place  over  them  three  pounds  of  leg 
or  shin  of  beef,  or  clod  and  sticking ;  cut  it  slantway  in  pieces., 
chop  the  bone,  then  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half  a  spoonful 
of  pepper;  set  it  on  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  hiss,  whicl?, 
indicates  that  all  the  moisture  is  dispersed ;  reduce  the  heat  o! 
the  fire  by  throwing  ashes  on  the  top ;  put  on  the  pan  with  the 
cover  over.  Let  the  onions  stew  until  quite  brov/n,  but  not  ! 
burnt,  and  the  fat  is  as  clear  as  oil,  which  you  will  easily  perceive 
iy  holding  the  pan  Gf  pot  on  one  side,  the  contents  of  which  will 
be  smoking  hot,  and  stick  to  the  bottom,  though  not  bm-ning , 
immediately  add  five  pints  of  cold  water ;  when  boiling,  skim 
and  simmer  ono  hour;  pass  through  the  sieve,  and  put  bj  till 


. 


gOUFS. 

«fanted.  1^  will  keep  for  many  days  in  winter,  and  also  in 
summer,  by  boiling  it  every  otber  day,  witli  tlie  addition  of  half 
a  gill  of  water  added  to  it  now  and  then. 

4.  Lesson  No.  2.™ The  remains  of  roast  or  boiled  meat, 
game,  poultry,  &c.,  may  be  added,  cut  up,  and  the  bones  broken^ 
using  only  half  the  quantity  of  meat.  The  meat  may  be  taken 
out  and  served  separate,  with  a  mustard  or  any  sharp  sauce. 

The  addition  of  cloves  (say  four),  a  little  macej  carrots,  turnips, 
and  celery,  and  a  few  sweet  herbs,  will  vary  the  flavour  of  the 
gravy. 

5.  Clear  Vegetahle  Soicp,  Lesson  Wo.  1.— Cut  in  small  dice, 
two-thirds  of  carrots  and  tm-nips,  and  one-third  of  onions,  leeks, 
and  celery,  altogether  about  half  a  pound ;  wash  them  well,  drain, 
put  into  pan  or  iron  pot,  two  ounces  of  butter  or  dripping,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar;  put  on  the  fire,  stir  often;  when  no  moisture 
is  to  be  seen  add  three  pints  of  broth  'No.  1,  simmer  and  skim, 
until  the  carrots  are  tender,  and  serve.  If  all  the  above  vege- 
tables cannot  be  obtained  at  the  same  time,  use  the  same  weight 
of  either.  Be  careful  that  you  remove  the  fat  from  all  clear 
soup.  All  clear  vegetable  soup,  when  done,  ought  to  partake 
of  a  brownish  colour. 

6.  Lesson  No.  2.— The  addition  of  a  few  green  peas,  when  m 
season,  also  small  pieces  of  brocoli,  a  cauliflower,  or  a  few 
Brussels  sprouts,  previously  boiled,  makes  2Ji  improvem^ent  in  the 
above.  A  little  chervil  and  tarragon  render  it  both  pleasant 
and  refreshing. 

7.  Clear  Turnip,  Lesson  No.  3.— Peel  and  cut  in  large  dice 
half  a  pound  of  turnips,  put  in  pan  v/ith  butter  or  fat,  and  a  littl?. 
sugar ;  proceed  as  above,  Lesson  K'o.  1,  add  the  broth,  simmer 
skim,  and  serve.  It  will  not  require  so  long  doing  as  No.  L 
Give  it  a  nice  brown  colour.  If  turnips  are  either  streaky  o! 
epongy,  they  will  not  do. 

8.  Jerusalem  ArticJiolces. — Wash,  peel,  cut  in  dice,  and  fry  r^. 
above ;  when  nothing  but  the  clear  fat  is  seen  in  the  pan,  and  they 
are  suSlciently  done,  add  the  broth.  A  few  minutes  v/iU  cool' 
Siem. 

9.  Carrot  Soup. — For  carrots  proceed  as  Loove,  and  simmei 
till  tender ;  they  takfj  twice  as  long  as  the  artichokes  doing. 


10  SOUPS. 

10.  Vermicelli  and  Macaroni, — Vmy,  Eloise,  wlij  sliould  not 
the  workman  and  mechanic  partake  of  these  wholesome  and  nu- 
tritions articles  of  food,  which  have  now,  in  consequence  of  those 
restrictive  laws  on  provisions  having  been  repealed,  become  so 
plentiful  and  cheap  ?  It  only  requires  to  know  how  to  cook  them, 
in  order  that  they  should  become  as  favourite  a  food  in  these 
northern  climes,  as  they  are  in  the  southern.*  Boil  three  pints 
of  the  broth  No.  1,  break  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
vermicelli  or  macaroni;  boil  till  tender,  and  serve.  Macarorjii 
takes  twice  as  long  as  vermicelli  doing. 

Or,  the  macaroni  can  be  boiled  separate,  and  kept  in  salt  and 
water  for  some  days,  and  used  as  required  for  soups  and  made 

dishes. 

11.  Rice. — Wash  well  two  ounces  of  common  Bengal  rice ;  boil 
it  gently  in  three  pints  of  broth ;  when  tender,  serve. 

12.  Tajpioca  and  Semolina. — In  case  of  illness,  two  ounces  of 
tapioca  or  semolina  may  be  used  instead. 

13.  Wliite  Soup  with  Heat. — When  the  broth  No.  1  is  done, 
skim  off  the  fat,  put  the  meat  in  the  tureen,  then  put  into  a 
6asin  two  ounces  of  flour,  mix  gently  with  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  ditto  of  pepper;  add 
to  the  broth  by  degrees ;  boil  it  ten  minutes,  and  keep  stirring ; 
skim  and  serve  with  the  meat.  Fried  or  toasted  bread  cut  in  dice 
may  be  added. 

14.  Good  Wliite  Mode  Turtle  Soup  may  be  easily  and  cheaply 
made  thus ; — Purchase  a  calf's  head ;  if  large,  use  one  half  for 
a  day's  dinner ;  cook  as  receipt  No.  87 ;  take  the  remains  of 
that,  if  any,  with  the  other  half,  and  remove  the  bone ;  cut  the 
meat  into  square  pieces ;  add  it  in  proportion  of  one  pound  of 
meat  to  every  four  quarts  of  broth  of  No.  1 ;  mix  some  flour  and 
milk,  as  above,  and  add  it  to  it,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  oi 
cayenne  pepper,  and  four  cloves ;  let  it  simmer  on  the  fire  fot 
one  hour,  tie  up  six  sprigs  of  savory,  same  of  thj^me,  which  put 
into  the  soup,  and  remove  when  serving.  The  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  is  an  improvement,  just  before  serving,  as  well  as  a  di'op  of 


*  Macaroni  is  now  selling  in  London  at  fivepence  per  pound,  and 
jsiakes  four  pounds  of  food  when  boUed^  ai^  No.  462. 


SOUPS.  11 

wine,  if  handy.  If  requii^ed  brown,  add  tliree  taolespoonfuls  of 
colouring ;  and  use  water  or  brotli  for  thickening,  instead  of  milk. 
The  water  in  which  the  calf's  head  is  boiled  may  be  kept,  and 
added  to  the  stock.  This  soup  will  keep  for  a  long  time  if  boiled 
'oc(5asionally,  and  a  little  water  added ;  it  should  never  be  covered, 
or  fermentation  will  commence ;  it  should  be  occasionally  stirred 
until  cold.  Strong  stocks  are  more  likely  to  turn  sour  than 
thin  ones,  more  particularly  if  they  have  vegetables  and  flour 
in  them ;  to  prevent  which,  when  this  soup  is  kept  in  a  basin, 
leave  the  mouth  exposed  to  the  air. 

15.  Coio-Jieel. — Another  very  cheap  and  nutritious  sonp  may  be 
made  by  an  ox-foot  or  cow-heel;  having  bought  them  cleaned 
and  partly  boiled,  stew  them  till  tender,  remove  the  meat  from 
ttie  bone,  cut  them  into  nice  pieces,  and  proceed  as  for  m^ock- 
turtle. 

16.  Wldte  Soicp,  with  Vegetables,  ^c, — Having  cut  and  fried 
the  same  quantity  of  vegetables  as  E'o.  1,  add  them  to  the  white 
soup,  free  from  meat  as  IN^o.  13 ;  simmer  and  skim,  off  the  fat. 
Two  ounces  of  vermicelli,  macaroni,  rice,  &c.,  previously  boiled, 
can  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

17.  Puree,  or  TJiiclc  Vegetable  Soups.—- Green  Pe<z.— Put 
a  quart  of  large  green  peas,  when  cheap,  in  the  pot  or  pan,  with 
two  ounces  of  butter  or  fat,  and  the  same  of  lean  bacon  cut 
small,  a  middling- sized  onion,  little  mint,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt,  one  of  sugar,  half  the  same  of  pepper,  a  gill  of  water ;  set 
on  slow  fire,  stir  now  and  then,  or  until  no  more  moisture 
remains  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls 

.  3f  flour,  stir  round  quick,  and  break  the  peas  against  the  side  of 
the  pan  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  moisten  wdth  a  quart  of  milk  and 
a  quart  of  water,  simmer  twenty  minutes,  or  more  if  old  peas, 
and  serve. 

This,  by  leaving  out  the  bacon,  becomes  Meagre  Soup,  Eried 
bread,  in  small  dice,  is  a  good  accompaniment. 

If  you  have  any  broth  (Ko.  1),  use  it  instead  of  the  milk  and 
5'ater. 

By  passing  the  peas  through  a  hair  sieve,  which  is  done  by 
breaking  and  pressing  them  with  the  back  of  the  spoon,  an 
:cviting  puree  is  produced ;  after  which  warm  up,  and  serve. 

18.  JPimiphin  Soup  is  a  very  favourite  dish  in  many  parts  o 


12  '  SOUFS. 

France,  especially  witli  the  juveniles ;  and  wlien  in  season,  there* 
is  not  a  scliool,  college,  liospital,  convent,  or  monastery,  where 
it  is  not  made;  a  proof  that  it  must  be  very  wholesome.  In 
this  country,  whose  climate  will  not  allow  its  arriving  at  the 
same  size  as  on  the  Continent,  the  Vegetable  Marrow,  the 
American  Butter  Squash,  and  the  Mammoth  Gou/rd,  will 
replace  them. 

Cut  about  two  pounds  of  the  flesh  of  the  pumpkin  or  gourd 
into  large  dice,  put  it  into  your  pan,  with  three  ounces  of  salt 
butter  or  fat ;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  the  same  of  sugar,  a 
little  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  water ;  set  on  the  fire,  and  stew 
gently  for  twenty  minutes.  When  in  pulp,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  stir  round,  and  moisten  with  three  pints  of 
either  milk,  skim-milk,  or  water,  boil  ten  minutes  longer,  and 
serve  v/ith  fried  or  toasted  bread,  cut  in  dice. 

19.  Meagre  Soups. — This  soup  is  on  the  list  of  meagre  soups, 
a  word  used  by  the  Catholics  for  dishes  partaken  of  in  Lent, 
but  which  is  not  understood  in  England ;  the  word  having  the 
meaning,  want  of  strength.  But  this  soup,  and  many  others  in 
the  same  category,  are  well  worthy  the  attention  of  the  middle 
classes  of  this  country,  it  being  only  meagre  in  name,  and  not 
in  fact,  as  it  possesses  a  large  quantity  of  farinaceous  matter ; 
bread  being  also  served  with  it. 

20.  Vegetable  Marrow. — Peel,  and  take  out  the  inside,  if 
seeded,  cut  in  slices  about  two  pounds;  put  in  saucepan  on  the 
fire,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  or  fat ;  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  and  one  quarter  of  the  same  of 
pepper,  a  gill  of  water,  and  one  onion  sliced ;  stew  gently  until 
in  pulp,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  proceed  as  for 
pumpkin  soup. 

21.  Turroip  Soup.  —  Use  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  good 
turnips,  and  proceed  as  above. 

22.  Sed  Carrot  Soup.— Scrape  gently,  and  cut  in  very  thin 
slices  two  pounds  of  carrots;  put  them  in  the  saucepan  or  pot  with 
two  onions  sliced,  two  ounces  of  ham  cut  small,  two  cloves,  a 
little  thyme,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  as  above,  half  a  pint  of  water, 
simmer  gently  forty  minutes,  then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
jELouTg  and  two  quarts  of  broth  (No.  1),  or  use  milk,  or  even  water. 


BOUF^.  IS 

it  is  mucli  better  passed  tnroiigli  a  hair  sieve,  after  wMcli  warm 
j2p  again  and  serve. 

White  Carrot.— -Proceed  as  for  tlie  red. 

The  8wede^  Farsrdp,  Bed  and  White  jBeet.—'PxocQei  as  :&f 
carrot. 

23.  Wew  Spring  and  Autumn  Soup. — A  most  refresMng  and 
exquisite  soup.  At  tlie  end  of  tlie  London  season,  when  the 
iQarkets  are  fall  of  everything,  and  few  to  partake  of  them,  this 
soup  can  be  made  as  a  bonne  bouche  :-— 

Wash,  dry,  and  cat  up  four  cabbage  lettuces,  and  one  coss 
ditto,  a  handful  of  sorrel,  a  little  tarragon  and  chervil,  and  two 
|r  three  small  cucumbers  peeled  and  sliced ;  put  into  a  saucepan 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  then  set  in  the  vegetables ;  put 
on  a  slow  fire,  and  stir  often,  imtil  there  is  no  liquid  remaining ; 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  well,  and  moisten  with  two 
quarts  of  broth  ('No.  1)  or  water,  and  set  it  to  boil ;  when  boil- 
ing, add  a  pint  of  green  peas,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar,  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  when  the  peas  are  tender,  serve. 
If  you  use  water,  increase  the  quantity  of  seasoning. 

NetD  Coclc-a-LeeJde, 

Ma  chere  Amie,-— With  aU  due  respect  to  Scotch  cookery,  I  will 
always  give  the  preference,  in  the  way  of  soup,  to  tlieir  cock-a-leekie, 
even  before  their  inimitable  hodge-podge.  Halving  a  very  old  friend, 
from  the  neighbourhood  of  Dundee,  who  used  to  praise  my  cock-a- 
leelcie,  when  on  a  visit  to  St.  John's  Wood,  I  thought  I  would  give 
him  the  same  treat  here,  and  on  looking  over  my  frugal  store  and 
garden  of  Camellia  Cottage,  I  found  I  had  all  that  was  required, 
barring  the  bird;  but,  with  a  little  perseverance  and  ingenuity,  I 
succeeded  in  producing ,  a  very  nice  soup,  although  it  wanted  the 
principal  ingredient,  so  that  it  deceived  not  only  my  husband,  but 
my  friend  from  the  other  side  of  the  Tweed.     Here  is  the  receipt : 

24. — I  bought  two  pounds  of  veal  cutlet,  and  cut  it  into 
pieces,  like  the  flesh  from  the  breast  ^f  a  fowl,  and  put  them  in, 
the  pan  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the  same  -of  lean 
l^acon,  three  cloves,  two  good  onions  sliced,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
gait,  one  of  sugar,  half  a  one  of  pepper,  a  gill  of  water ;  set  i^ 
on  the  lire,  turn  it  over  until  forming  a  v/hite  glaze  at  the 
bottom,  add  to  it  five  pints  of  water,  simmer  half  an  horn*,  pass 
through  a  sieve,  save  the  best  pieces  of  the  veal.     In  the  ineaii*^ 


SOUPS. 

lime  blancL.  two  pounds  of  leeks,  free  fi'om  tlie  top  green  pari^ 
for  ten  minutes,  in  a  gallon  of  water,  and  drain  them ;  then  boU 
the  stock  and  half  the  leeks  together,  till  almost  in  a  pulp,  then 
add  the  other  half  of  the  leeks  and  the  meat,  also  eighteen  good 
fresh  French  plums;  simmer  half  an  hour,  and  serve. 

I  must  observe  that  my  friend  praised  it  very  much  for  having 
mt  in  the  iiesh  of  the  fowl  only,  as  he  thought,  and  not  the 
whole  carcase,  which  is  the  way  they  serve  it  in  Scotland;  an 
exceedingly  inconvenient  way,  as  everybody  expects  a  piece  ol 
the  fowl,  and  you  often  tear  it  to  pieces  in  serving. 

25.  Simplified  Sodge-Todge. —  Cut  two  pounds  of  fresh 
scrag  of  mutton  into  small  pieces,  which  put  into  a  stewpan, 
with  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one 
ditto  of  sugar,  lipJf  a  ditto  of  pepper ;  set  it  on  the  fire ;  when 
boiling,  place  it  at  the  side  to  simmer  for  one  hour;  keep  it 
skimmed;  well  wash  a  large  carrot,  two  turnips,  two  onions, 
and  six  small  cabbage  lettuces ;  cut  them  up,  and  place  in  the 
pot,  and  simmer  till  done.  A  ^int  of  green  peas,  if  in  season, 
may  b®  added.  A  carrot  grated  is  an  improvement.  If  in 
winter,  use  cabbage  instead  of  lettuce.     Serve  the  meat  with  it. 

26.  Various  Meat  Soups. — G-lhlet.—TkQ^Q  should  be  pro- 
inured  ready  cleaned,  but  if  not,  they  m^ust  be  scalded ;  when 
'ione,  cut  them  into  about  twelve  pieces,  wash  them  well,  and 
Jry  in  a  cloth ;  put  into  a  pan  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  of 
dripping,  set  it  on  the  fire,  melt  it,  then  add  four  ounces  of  floui, 
stir  continually  until  it  begins  to  brown,  add  two  ounces  of  lean 
bacon,  and  two  onions  or  leeks  sliced,  fry  a  few  minutes  longer, 
put  in  the  giblets,  fry  gently  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  now  and 
then,  pour  over  two  quarts  of  water,  stir  till  boiling,  and  set  it 
to  simmer ;  then  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half  one  of  pepper 
one  of  sugar,  three  clones,  a  little  thyme,  bay  leaf,  and  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  celery  well  w^ashed  and  cut  up  small; 
continue  simmering  iintil  the  giblets  are  tender,  remove  the  fat, 
and  serve.  A  wineglass  of  sherry  and  a  little  cayenne  ma^ 
be  added.  A.  pound  of  beef  or  veal  is,  of  course,  a  great  im- 
provement. This  receipt  is  for  the  giblets  of  a  midclie»sized 
turkey. 


SOUPS.  15 

27.  Siare  Soup, 

Mr  DEAH  Eloise, — Since  tlie  alteration  in  our  ciieumstanccs  I  have 
learnt  to  practise  the  most  rigid  economy,  which  you  will  remark  in 
this  receipt.  When  I  buy  a  hare,  as  I  sometimes  (io,  for  two  shiL 
lings,  skinning  it  myself,  and  selling  the  skin  for  fourpence,  I  save 
ail  the  blood  in  a  pie-dish,  take  out  tlie  heart  and  liver,  removing  the 
g-all ;  I  then  cut '  the  hare  into  two,  across  the  back,  close  to  the  last 
-ibs,  and  cut  this  part  into  pieces,  using  it  for  soup,  and  the  hindp-art 
r  keep  for  roasting  the  following  day. 

28.  Hare  Soup. — I  then  proceed  as  for  giblet  soiif,  only 
using  half  a  pound  of  either  veal,  beef,  or  mutton,  cut  into  dice, 
and  put  in  the  pot  with  the  hare.  Fifteen  minutes  before 
serving,  I  mix  the  blood  with  the  heart  and  liver,  which  I  have 
chopped  line,  and  boil  it  up  ten  minutes ;  sldm  and  serve.  The 
addition  of  a  little  brown  sugar  and  a  glass  of  port  wine  is  an 
improvement :  if  no  wine,  a  little  stout  or  porter  will  improve  it. 
It  ought  to  be  of  a  dark  brown  colour,  for  which  use  colouring. 

29.  Ox  Tail. — Cut  them  at  the  joints,  and  proceed  as  for 
giblets,  adding  one  pint  more  water  for  two  small  tails,  and 
simmer  half  an  hour  longer,  or  till  done.  This  should  be  of  a 
brown  colour.  Yegetables  cut  into  dice  may  be  added.  Serve 
when  tender :  some  will  take  double  the  time  cooking,  according 
to  size. 

30.  Ox  Cheelc. — Boil  half  a  large  cheek  for  twenty  minutes 
in  two  quarts  of  water,  to  set  it ;  take  it  out,  cut  it  into  thin 
slices,  or  small  pieces,  and  then  proceed  exactly  as  for  giblets. 

_  Serve  when  tender. 

31.  Slw.pl'ijled  JSfulligatatmiy,  quichly  done.  Lesson  1.— 
Cut  in  small  dice  two  pounds  of  leg  of  veal,  no  bone,  then 
put  in  the  pan  with  two  ounces  of  salt  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt,  a  quarter  that  of  pepper,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  onions 
sliced,  and  a  wine-glass  of  water.  Put  it  in  the  pan  and  place 
on  the  fire,  stir  it  about  until  nearly  dry ;  two  ounces  of  bacon  or 
ham  is  ah  improvement ;  then  add  a  good  teaspoonful  and  a  half 
of  curry  powder,  four  of  flour,  and  one  of  brown  sugar;  m^oisten 
with  five  pints  of  water,  simmer  for  an  hour  or  a  little  longer, 
skim,  and  serve.  Half  a  pound  of  rice,  as  No.  455,  may  be  served 
either  with  it  or  separate. 


\b  .  SOUFB. 

.Lesson  2.-— To  the  above  may  be  added  a  small  apple,  cut  in 
Jiin  slices,  also  any  otber  meat  may  be  used,  instead  of  veal, 
md  a  little  bunch  of  aromatic  herbs;  the  meat -to  remain  in  the 
soup. 

32.  New  Mutton  Broth.-^Cui  two  pounds  of  the  scrag,  or 
any  other  lean  part  of  mutton,  in  ten  or  twelve  pieces,  put  in  a 
pan  v/ith  two  ounces  of  fat,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half  of 
pepper,  a  gill  of  water,  two  middle-sized  onions,  a  good  teacupful 
of  pearl  barley.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  stir  round  until  it  is  reduced, 
moisten  with  five  pints  of  water,  boil,  and  skim,  simmer  two 
hours ;  and  serve. 

33.  Potato  Soup, — Proceed  as  above,  omit  the  barley,  add 
two  pounds  of  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in  slices,  put  them  in 
when  the  broth  is  boiling ;  simmer  till  in  pulp,  and  serve.  A 
few  sprigs  of  parsley,  or  the  fiowers  of  four  marigolds,  is  an 
improvement,  and,  at  the  same  time,  an  agreeable  change. 

34.  Ox  Tail  Soup  in  Balcing  Pa?^.— Divide  two  ox  tails, 
wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  then  put  them  in  the  pan,  with 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  four  cloves,  a  little 
thyme,  if  handy,  two  good  onions ;  add  three  quarts  of  water, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  colouring;  put  on  the  cover,  place  it  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  three  hours  to  simmer,  take  off  the  fat,  which 
save  for  use,  and  serve.  Half  a  pound  of  any  vegetable,  mixed 
or  not,  cut  in  dice,  can  be  added  with  advantage. 

35.  Ox  Clieeic  in  Baking  IP  an, — Get  half  a  one  ready  boned, 
if  not  to  be  had,  get  the  half  head  with  the  bone,  in  which  case 
they  should  be  broken  small  and  put  in  tlje  broth ;  but  it  gives 
more  trouble  than  it  is  v/orth.  The  solid  meat  at  threepence 
per  pound  is  more  economical.  Wash  it  well,  cut  off  the  white 
part,  put  the  cheek  in  the  pan,  and  proceed  exactly  as  above , 
only  give  it  three  or  four  hom's  to  bake.  A  little  mixed  spice 
improves  the  flavour.  Take  the  fat  off,  remove  the  meat,  cut  it 
into  small  pieces,  put  it  into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  broth  over. 

36.  Cheap  Tea  Soup}.— 'Put  into  the  iron  pot  two  ounces  of 
dripping,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  cut  into  dice,  two 
good  onions  shced ;  fry  them  gently  until  brownish,  then  add 
one  large  or  two  small  turnips,  the  same  of  carrots,  one  leel^ 
and  one  head  of  celery,  all  cut  thin  and  slanting  (if  all  these 


FISH   OK  GRIDIRON.  17 

cannot  be  obtained,  use  any  of  tliem,  but  about  the  same  amount) ; 
fry  for  ten  minutes  more,  and  tben  add  seven  quarts  ol 
water;  boil  up,  and  add  one  pound  and  a  half  of  split  peas 
simmer  for  two  or  tliree  hours,  until  reduced  to  a  pulp,  which 
depends  on  the  quality  of  the  pea,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  dried  mint ;  mix  half  a  pound  of 
flour  smooth  in  a  pint  of  water,  stir  it  well ;  pour  in  the  soup, 
boil  thirty  minutes,  and  serve. 

37.  The  ahove  Mec^gre. —  Precisely  as  above,  only  oil  or 
butter  used  instead  of  bacon  or  dripping :  skim-milk  could 
with  advantage  be  used,  in  v\^hich  case  add  three  ounces  of  salt. 
Although  this  is  entirely  deprived  of  animal  substances,  yet  the 
ferinaceous  ingredients,  with  the  addition  of  bread,  will  act 
generously  on  the  digestive  organs,  satisfying  the  heartiest  eater. 


GEIDIEON. 

With  this  primitive  utensil  a  great  deal  may  be  done  in  the  way  of 
cooking,  but  it  requires  care,  or  otherwise  great  loss  of  food  and 
money  will  be  sustained ;  a  few  minutes'  constant  attention,  when  the 
article  is  on  the  gridiron,  will  save  at  least  twenty  per  cent.,  and  the 
palate  will  feel  more  gratified. 

I  use  two  kinds  of  gridirons,  each  costing  very  little;  one  is  of  cast 
iron,  to  go  on  the  fire,  and  the  other  is  of  iron  wire,  made  double,  to 
hang  from  the  bar  ot  the  grate  before  the  fire,  made  so  as  not  to  too 
much  press  tlie  object  cooked  within  it.  The  principal  care  in  this, 
as  in  all  kitchen  utensils,  is  never"  to  put  them  away  dkty;  always 
wiping  the  gridiron  after  it  has  been  used,  and  again  before  you  use 
it,  and  a  place  kept  where  it  should  be  hung. 


WHAT  I  GAK  COOK  WITH  MY  GUIDIEOK 

Firstly,  Fish,  nearly  all  sorts,  both  dried  and  fresh,  either  whole  or 
in  pieces.  1  shall  not  begin  with  the  king  of  the  ocean,  but  with 
one  of  the  most  humble  of  its  inliabitants,  and  which  daily  gratifies 
the  palates  of  millions ;  it  is — 

The  JBlain  'Red  Herring. — Though  we  have  agreed  to  make  use  of 
fvery  kind  of  eatable  food,  it  is  still  important  to  point  out  the  beet 


18  FISH   ON   GEIDIHON. 

qnalifcy  first,  for  I  must  tell  you,  tliat  the  quality  of  herrings  varies 
as  much,  if  not  more,  than  any  other  kind  of  food;  the  XJi*oper  way  of 
curing  them  heing  as  important  to  know  as  the  quality  of  the  fiesh 
itself.  This  unassuming  kind  of  fish,  which  we  may  venture  to  call  the 
poor  man's  friend,  ought  to  be  chosen  plump,  though  not  too  full  of 
roe,  as  when  they  have  large  roes  they  are  sure  to  be  oily,  and  cannot 
liave  taken  the  salt  properly ;  they  feel  softish  to  the  touch,  eat  stringy, 
and  sometimes  decay,  and  emit  a  bad  smell  while  cooking;  these 
are  unwholesome  :  but  if  hard  and  firm,  the  flesh  reddish,  the  roe  well 
set,  and  smell  sweet,  they  are  good.  The  only  drawback  is  that  they 
might  be  too  salt,  which  cannot  be  avoided,  only  by  cutting  the  back 
up,  and  soaking  them  in  lukewarm  water  for  a  few  hours,  and  when 
taken  out  well  dried  on  a  cloth,  previous  to  their  being  cooked.  But 
the  way  to  ascertain  if  a  herring  is  too  salt,  is  to  take  the  fish  in  the 
left  hand,  and  pull  out  a  few  of  the  fins  from  the  back,  and  taste ; 
you  may  thus  find  out  the  quality  and  flavour.  This  plan  is  adopted 
l>y  large  dealers. 

38.  Wipe  yoTir  herring ;  dry  it  well  in  a  cloth :  you  may 
slightly  split  the  hack,  or  make  a  few  incisions  crossways ;  rub 
it  with  flour,  or  dress  it  plainly,  by  placing  the  herring  on  the 
gridiron  about  six  inclies  over  a  clear  fire,  or  before  it ;  turn 
them  often,  and  in  five  minutes  they  may  be  done,  according  to 
size. 

Or,  when  it  is  done,  mix  a  piece  of  butter  with  a  little  mustard 
together,  and  place  inside  of  it,  or  rub  it  over.  By  opening  the 
back,  it  will  do  much  quicker;  hut  to  keep  the  essence  in  it,  it 
should  he  done  whole. 

Or,  butter  and  chopped  parsley,  and  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice. 

Or,  hutter  and  chopped  fennel  and  onions,  very  fine. 

Or,  cut  ofl*  the  head,  open  it  up  the  hack  with  a  knife,  and 
remove  the  hack  hone  of  the  herring ;  put  in  about  one  ounce 
of  butter  and  chopped  parsley,  with  a  slight  tint  of  onion. 
Fold  two  herrings  together  in  some  paper,  so  that  the  fat  does 
not  escape ;  broil  gently  for  nearly  twenty  minutes,  and  serve. 
The  hutter  is  to  be  inclosed  between  the  two  herrings. 

The  same  plan  with  a  bloater  and  a  fresh  herring  dressed 
together  is  first-rate. 

39.  Fresh  Herrings. — These  should  be  cleaned  and  scaled, 
the  head  removed,  opened  on  the  hack,  and  the  gut  taken  out. 
Make  three  slight  incisions  on  each  side,  throw  some  pepper  and. 


FISH    ON    GEIDIKOK.  I9 

salt  over  it,  broil  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  plain,  or  witli  either 
plain  melted  butter  or  fish  sauce. 

Or^  a  little  mixed  pickle  chopped  fine,  with  melted  butter, 
also  makes  a  good  sauce  for  herrings. 

40.  Sacldoclc. — A  fine  Finnan  haddock  should  be  rubbed  with 
butter,  and  plain  broiled  before  the  fii-e  for  ten  minutes,  or  more 
if  rather  large,  keeping  it  of  a  yellowish  colour,  and  turning  it 
occasionally.  If  very  salt,  steep  it  in  water  for  one  hour ;  beal 
the  thick  side  dow^n,  and  broil  gently. 

Another  Way. — Cut  a  middling-sized  haddock  in  six  pieces, 
which  wash  in  cold  water,  take  them  out,  and  place  them  eithef 
in  a  bason  or  pan,  then  pour  over  about  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
covering  your  bason  or  pan  over,  so  that  no  steam  can  escape- 
after  your  haddock  has  steamed  ten  minutes,  take  it  out,  placf 
on  a  dish,  rub  over  with  butter,  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  over, 
and  serve. 

Sprats  and  pickled  herrings  can  also  be  done  this  way,  as 
likewise  smoked  salmon;  you  may  vary  the  flavour  of  this 
simple  dish,  by  adding  either  a  little  chives,  thyme,  winter 
savory,  bayleaf,  parsley,  eschalots,  or  onions. 

41.  WJiitings,  Fresh,  should  be  merely  cleaned,  cut  on  each 
side,  rubbed  over  wdth  salt,  pepper,  and  flour,  and  broiled  for 
seven  to  ten  minutes.  Serve  with  melted  butter,  or  without, 
addins:  a  little  vine^rar  or  lemon  in  the  sauce. 

42.  Mackerel. — Cut  ofl*  the  point  of  the  head,  open  it  at  the 
back,  keep  it  open  flat.     Pepper  and  salt,  and  fennel,  if  handy ; 

-  place  it  between  the  fish,  broil  gently  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve 
with  either  melted  butter,  or  parsley  and  butter,  or  black  butter 
sauce.     (See  No.  425  a.) 

43. — Cut  as  above,  open  it  on  the  back,  chop  up  a  small  piece 
of  fat  bacon,  with  some  X)arsley,  one  eschalot,  or  a  small  onion; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar ;  fill  the  inside  witJi  this  stuffing. 
Close  it  again ;  tie  it  round  with  a  string,  broil  very  gently  for 
twelve  to  fifteen  minutes:  it  depends  on  the  fire  and  size. 
Serve  plain. 

44. — Prepare  it  as  above,  and  put  it  into  a  pie  dish,  with 
vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  and  slices  of  onion,  for  an  hour, "and  broil 
as  betbro. 


20  FISH   ON   ORIDIHOK. 

45,— Get  a  tin  baking  dish,  and  put  into  it  some  cMve'^ 
©hopped  fine,  some  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  a  little  vinegar,  and 
about  one  ounce  of  butter  or  lard :  put  the  mackerel,  cut  open 
at  the  back,  and  divided  in  six  pieces ;  place  it  on  the  gridiron, 
turn  the  pieces,  and  in  about  twenty  minutes  they  are  done. 
Serve  it  on  the  tin  dish.     Onions  may  be  used. 

46. — It  may  be  put  into  paper,  like  the  herring,  Ho.  38,  and 
served  v/ithout  any  sauce. 

Small  fresh- water  fish,  such  as  tench,  pike,  perch,  barbel,  (&c., 
may  be  done  like  mackerel. 

47.  Small  Soles  and  Flounders  are  very  good  when  nicely 
broiled  in  the  double  gridiron  before  a  clear  fire;  the  time 
depends  on  the  size  and  the  state  of  the  fire :  they  should  be 
rubbed  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour. 

48.  Salmon,  Salted,  should  be  cut  in  small  slices,  of  about 
one  quarter  of  a  pound  each,  slantways,  rubbed  with  either  butter 
or  oil,  and  broiled  gently.  Serve  plain,  or  can  be  broiled,  wrapped 
up  in  oil  paper. 

49.  Fels,  Dried.' — Steep  them  in  water  and  vinegar  for  tv/elve 
iours,  rub  them  with  butter,  cut  them  into  pieces  four  inches 
long;  broil  gently,  and  serve.  These  are  rather  scarce^  but  very 
good  thus. 

50.  Eels,  Fresh. — Skin  and  cut  them  into  lengths  of  four  to 
five  inches ;  broil  gently  for  seven  to  ten  minutes ;  b.ave  some 
parsley  chopped  fine,  which  mix  with  some  butter,  and  put  a 
little  in  each  piece,  and  serve  very  hot.  They  may  also  be  egged 
and  bread- crummed  (see  Fried  Eels),  or  with  plain  sauce. 

51.  Ling,  Fresh. — Take  about  a  pound  of  ling,  cut  it  into 
slices  of  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  rub  it  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  put  it  on  the  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire ;  in  about 
ten  minutes  it  will  be  done.  Serve  it  plain,  or  with  a  little 
melted  butter  and  chopped  parsley,  lem^on  or  vinegar,  or  witk 
a  little  piece  of  the  liver  chopped  up  and  boiled  in  the  sauce. 

Turbot,  brill,  hake,  halibut,  plaice,  or  cod,  may  be  cookec! 
the  same  way,  either  over  or  before  the  fire. 


msn  BOILED  IN  POT,   PAN;,  OK  STEW-PAH  21 


HOW  TO  BOIL  ALL   KIMBS   OF   FISH,  SITHES  WHOLE 
OH  IN  SLICES. 

GENERAL   EECEIPTS, 

!  Ik  all  processes  of  cooking   that   which   appears  the   simplest  13 

generally  the  most  neglected,  or  at  best  but  carelessly  done.     Many 

persons,  unacquainted  with  the  subject,  would  imagine  that  the  boiling 

of  fish  is  so  simple,  that  it  merely  requires  to  be  put  on  the  fire  in  a 

.  saucepan  fuU  of  water,  and  let  simmer  or  boil  until  it  has  lost  its 

1  transparency,  to  be  fit  to  eat.     To  those  who  are  careless  and  extra- 

'  vagant,  this  process  may  answer  very  well;  they  know  no  better,  and 

i  do  not  care  to  improve ;  but  to  the  careful  housewife,  who  wishes  to 

make  every  penny  go  as  far  as  possible,  by  retaining  in  every  article 

of  food  she  cooks  the  flavour  and  succulence  it  possesses  (which  is,  in 

fact,  the  basis  of  economical  and   perfect  cookery,  no  matter  how 

simple  it  may  be),  the  following  simple  receipt,  if  carefully  followed, 

will  greatly  assist: — 

First  of  all,  let  us  remember  that  aU  large  fish,  with  the  skin 
whole,  must  be  placed  on  the  fire  in  cold  water;  if  crimped,  or  cut  in 
slices  or  pieces,  in  boiling  v/ater;  if  whole,  it  must  not  be  covered 
v/ith  more  than  two  or  three  inches  of  water,  or  the  skin  will  crack, 
and  not  only  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  fish,  but  will  diminish  the 
gelatine  and  gluten  it  contains,  and  instead  of  eating  firm  and  fall  of 
flavour,  it  ^vili  be  soffc  and  woolly,  especially  if  overboiled. 

For  all  kinds  of  fish,  to  every  quart  of  water  put  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt;  and  if  the  fish  be  whole,  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  remove 
the  cover  on  one  side,  and  let  simmer  gently  tiU  quite  d&ne,  calcu- 
lating the  time  according  to  the  size  and  quality,  which  vary  so 
much,  that  it  would  be  quite  impossible  to  say,  "  Take  a  cod,  turbot, 
05*  salmon,  or  any  other  fish  weighing  so  many  pounds,  and  boil  so 
long ;"  for  according  to  its  quahty,  the  process  of  cooking  will  act 
upon  it,  and  therefore  in  all  the  following  receipts  we  must  make 
use  of  the  word  ahouf  with  regard  to  time,  but  by  all  means  do  it 
rather  over  than  under.  If  large  fish,  I  genersslly  try  it  by  gently 
pushing  a  wooden  skewer  through  the  thickest  part ;  if  it  goes 
in  easily,  it  is  done.  ^ 

JIow  to  ascertain  if  FisJi,  whether  l  oiled,  stewed,  or  fried,  is  done, 
'  <*~If  the  bone  sticks  firm  to  the  flesh,  or  the  flesh  to  the  bone,  it  is 
1  not  done ;  by  the  same  rule,  if  quite  loose,  and  the  flesli  of  the  fish 
<  drops  off"  the  bone,  it  is  overdone,  and  you  lose  some  of  its  qualities. 
!  For  fish  in  slices  try  the  bone  with  your  knife;  ?f  the  flesh  comes 
i  from  it,  it  is  done ;  or  by  placing  the  point  of  a  knife  between  tha 


22  FISH    BOILED   IK"   POT.    ¥A1^^    OR   STE^Y-PA]f. 

fiesli  and  the  bone,  and  on  raising  it^  if  done,  the  knife  will  part  it 
easily. 

To  boil  fisli  whole,  such  as  turbot^  plaice,  large  soles,  salmon,  cod, 
trout,  pike,  or  any  such  like  fish,  it  is  requisite  to  have  a  drainer  at 
the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  or  you  will  be  sure  to  break  your  fish  to 
pieces;  and  as  the  cottage  of  a  working  man  is  seldom  furnished 
v/ith  cooking  utensils  of  this  nature,  let  him  cut  his  large  fish  in 
pieces,  or  boil  only  small  ones ;  but  as,  no  doubt,  the  middle  classes 
of  society  will  buy  largely  of  this  our  last  work,  I  think  I  am  in  duty 
bound,  Eloise,  to  give  the  following  receipt,  which,  without  the  fore* 
going  explanation,  might  seem  to  you  out  of  place. 

52.  To  hoil  Brill. — Place  your  fish  m  the  pan,  letting  it  lay 
on  the  strainer;  rub  it  over  with  six  teaspoonfuls  of  salt — it 
will  make  it  firmer,  then  add  six  pints  of  cold  water,  or  enough 
to  cover  the  fish ;  put  your  pan  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  com- 
mences to  boil,  put  the  lid  slightly  on  one  side,  and  let  simmer 
till  done.  A  brill  of  about  five  or  six  pounds  will  be  done  in 
half  an  hour  after  boiling.  When  sufiiciently  cooked,  lay  hold 
of  both  ends  of  the  drainer,  lift  your  fish  out,  and  let  it  lay  on 
the  top  of  the  kettle  for  two  or  three  minutes,  then  slip  it  on 
jom-  dish  on  a  napkin,  and  garnish  round  with  parsley,  if  any. 
If  your  fish  weighs  from  three  to  four  pounds,  it  will  take  from 
twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes  doing  on  a  moderate  fire.  Anchovy, 
shrimp,  lobster,  or  lemon  sauce,  may  be  used. 

53.  Tiirhot.  —  Make  two  incisions  with  a  knife  across  tho 
back-— it  prevents  the  white  skin  on  the  top  cracking ;  rub  it 
with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  salt  previous  to  putting  the 
water  over;  let  it  Ifly  about  tbree  inches  under  water.  A  tm-bot 
of  seven  or  eight  pounds  will  take  about  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  doing,  after  the  water  commences  boiling ;  one  of  fifteen 
pounds,  one  hour  and  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  either  of  the 
above  sauces,  or  cream  sauce  No.  424. 

54.  Salmon. — A  salmon  weighing  ten  pounds  will  take  one 
hour  gently  simmering  when  the  water  commences  boiling. 
Head  and  shoulders  of  six  pounds,  forty  minutes ;  cod  fish  of 
the  same  weight  as  the  salmon,  fifteen  minutes  less ;  cod's  head 
and  shoulders,  ten  minutes  less ;  conger  eels,  hake,  ling,  same 
time  as  cod.  The  liver  and  roe  of  any  of  the  above-named  fish 
are  very  good  when  boiled  and  served  with  them. 

Gurnet,  pike,  barbel,  and  carp  are  boiled  the  same  way.     If 


FIb'il    BOILED    IN    POT,    PAN,    OB   STEW-PAl^.  23 

dther  the  turbot,  salmon,  or  cod  is  crimped,  it  will  take  les;j 
fcime  to  boil,  and  should  be  put  in  boiling  water,  timing  it  iu 
proportion  to  the  other  iish  that  has  been  put  in  cold  water. 

55.  How  to  boil  Sliced  FisJi. — To  every  pint  of  water  put  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  when  boiling,  add  your  fish,  of  whatever 
kind  it  may  be,  calculating  that  a  pound  of  any  sort  of  fish  will 
take  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes ;  but  ascertain  if  the  bone 
separates  easily  from  the  flesh,  as  described  in  the  preceding  direc- 
tions. Halibut  and  sturgeon  will  take  longer  than  any  other  fish, 
plaice  less  than  any.  Any  fish  cut  in  slices  will  always  eat  firmer 
and  better  if  rubbed,  previous  to  boiling,  with  the  quantity  of  salt 
you  otherwise  put  in  the  water ;  therefore  boil  the  water  plain, 
adding  ih.Q  fish  and  salt  at  the  same  time.  Mackerel  will  take 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes ;  trout  and  haddocks  of  the  size 
of  a  iiiackerel,  a  little  longer ;  herrings,  from  twelve  to  fifteen 
minutes ;  skate,  a  trifling  time  longer ;  adding  a  drop  of  vinegar 
in  the  water  to  any  of  the  above  fish  is  an  improvement. 

56.  New  way  of  h oiling  FisJi. — The  addition  of  a  few  herbs 
and  vegetables  in  the  water  gives  a  very  nice  flavour  to  the  fish. 
Add,  according  to  taste,  a  little  sliced  onions,  thjrme,  bayleaf, 
■winter  savory,  carrots,  celery,  clove,  mace,  using  whichever  of 
these  ingredients  you  can  procure ;  it  greatly  improves  skate, 
fresh  haddocks,  gurnet,  &c.  Fresh-water  fish,  which  have  no, 
particular  flavour,  are  preferable  done  thus,  with  the  addition 
of  a  little  vinegar.  Choose  whatever  sauces  you  please  for 
any  of  the  above  fish,  from  the  series  at  No.  411. 

57.  Salt  Fish,  Cod,  Ling,  and  Cod- Sounds. -^  Sosik  two 
pounds  of  salt  fish  for  sis  hours,  if  not  previously  soaked,  or 
according  to  the  cure ;  put  them  in  boiling  water,  in  which  some 
parsnips  have  been  previously  boiled.  Twenty  minutes,  if  the 
iish  is  thick,  will  be  sufficient;  and  serve  with  egg-sauce 
Ko.  411.    Proceed  the  same  with  cod-sounds. 

Fresh-water  Fish, — These  are  not  much  esteemed  amQngst 
[  the  many,  although  some  are  excellent  eating,  and  mucli  in  il^o 
t  on  the  continent. 

58.  Tench  and  perch  must  be  well  scaled  and  cleaned,  aiid  pul 
t  mto  the  pan  with  a  pint  of  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 

onion,  slia^d,  three  sprigs  of  thyme,  bay-leaf,  pepper,  parsby, 

Q 


24  FISH   m  TIN   PAN   IN   OVEK". 

celery,  all  in  proportion ;  a  wine-glass  of  vinegar.  If  tliey  weig^i 
one  pound  boil  for  half  an  hour,  according  to  size.  Serve  with 
$nj  fish -sauce. 

59.  ^els  may  be  done  as  above,  with  a  little  scraped  horse- 
radish, and  served  with  parsley  and  butter.  Pike  and  carp  may 
be  boiled  in  the  same  way.  If  no  herbs  or  vegetables,  boil  in 
plain  salt  and  v/ater ;  but  the  above  is  a  great  improvement. 

Fish  in  Oven,  in  Tin  Dish. — A  long  square  tin  dish,  like 
those  for  baking,  may  be  used  for  this  excellent  mode  of  cooking 
fish,  by  which  all  the  flavour  and  succulence  of  it  is  preserved. 
They  may  be  had  of  all  sizes,  and  at  a  very  trifling  expense. 

60.  Tiesson  1. — Scale  and  clean  a  sole,  dry  it  well,  chop  up  half 
an  ounce  of  onions  rather  small,  put  in  the  dish  one  ounce  of  either 
butter,  dripping,  or  oil,  and  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  and 
onions  at  the  bottom ;  lay  the  sole  over,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt ;  mix  the  remainder  of  the  chopped  onions  and  parsley  with 
some  bread  crumbs,  and  cover  the  sole  with  them,  adding  three 
or  four  pieces  of  butter  or  fat  over,  and  a  wineglassful  of  either 
wine,  ale,  or  broth,  or  even  water  underneath ;  put  the  dish  in 
the  oven  or  before  the  fire  until  done  :  a  large  sole  will  take  about 
an  hour.  In  case  the  oven  is  not  hot  enough  to  brown  the  top, 
put  the  shovel  in  the  fire  until  it  is  red-hot,  and  hold  over  it. 
Serve  in  the  tin.  The  oven  is  far  better  than  the  front  of  a 
fire. 

Tlaice  may  be  done  the  same  way,  or  cut  in  slices,  only  it 
takes  longer  doing. 

61.  Whiting  are  done  the  same  way,  but  require  a  sharp  oven, 
m:  they  will  turn  v/atery.  Weaver  may  be  done  in  the  same 
manner. 

Conger  Eels. — Cut  four  slices,  half  an  inch  thick,  dry  well, 
dip  each  piece  into  flour,  and  proceed  precisely  as  for  soles.  A 
little  grated  horseradish  and  a  little  spice  vfill  vary  the  flavour. 

62.  Lesson  ^.—Codfish,  Salihut,  Ling,  JEalce,  Sturgeon,  and 
Uaddoch  may  be  done  in  the  same  way;  and  a  little  stuffing,  ITo. 
459,  may  be  u.ssd  for  every  one  of  them,  especially  cod-livei* 

fitisiiing. 

63.  Lesson  3.— The  remains  of  boikd  fish  may  always  b? 
done  iii  this  way.     A  fev7  spoonfnls  of  melted  butter  added  over 


FISH  IN  TIN   PAN  IN   OYEN.  2*' 

^ny  of  tli8  above  flsli,  before  tlie  bread  crumbs,  makes  a  change  ; 
\t  eats  more  delicate,  and  gives  very  little  more  trouble. 

64.  Another  TFc^y. —Place  any  of  the  above  fish,  in  the  dish^ 
omitting  the  onions,  if  not  liked ;  add  a  few  herbs  or  chopped 
mushrooms  instead ;  and  make  the  following— 

65.  Sauce. — Put  in  a  pan  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fiour, 
moisten  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  or  skim-milk,  add  three 
parts  of  a  teaspoonfal  of  salt,  the  same  of  pepper,  mix  all  smooth, 
add  a  little  mixed  spice,  or  two  cloves,  grated  nutmeg,  one  onion 
cut  in  four,  set  on  the  fire,  stir  continually,  and  boil  twenty 
minutes ;  it  must  be  rather  thick ;  take  out  the  onions  and  cloves, 
add  to  the  sauce  four  ounces  of  butter,  mix  it  well,  pour  over  the 
lish,  and  bake  as  above  :  a  little  parsley,  chopped,  and  thrown 
over  before  sending  tc  table,  improves  the  appearance,  and  a 
little  grated  cheese  thrown  over  previous  to  placing  in  the  oven, 
gives  a  nice  yellow  look,  and  this  will  be  much  liked.  The 
sauce  can  be  made  and  kept  for  some  days  without  spoiling. 
This  sauce  is  nice  with  every  kind  of  white  fish.  Bread-crumb 
may  be  put  over  the  sauce  before  cooking.  The  remains  of 
previously  cooked  fish  may  be  dressed  in  this  way. 

66.  Malihiitf  Conger,  SaJce,  and  Ling  {receipt  for  four 
pounds  offish). — Season  either  of  the  above  rather  strong  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half  the  same  of  pepper,  the  same  of 
ground  ginger,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  onions.  Put 
two  ounces  of  fat  in  a  deep  tin  pan,  lay  the  fish  on  it,  mix  two 
ounces  of  fiour  with  a  pint  of  milk ;  when  smooth  pour  over  the 
fish,  bake  for  an  hour,  and  serve. 

67.  Plaice  and  large  Gurnets.-— TiiQ  fiesh  cut  from  the  bone 
may  be  done  as  above.  They  all  require  to  be  well  done.  Any 
of  the  above  dishes  may  be  surrounded  by  a  border  of  either 

i  mashed  potatoes  or  boiled  rice. 

68.  In  Oven. — Small  Msh.-—'Fvii  in  a  deep  pan  four  tea- 
spoonfuls of  onions  chopped,  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  a  gill 
of  vinegar ;  lay  over  six  pounds  of  any  common  fish,  season  over 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper ;  place  it  in  the 
r/en  for  twenty  minutes,  then  turn  it,  baste  it  with  the  sauce 
now  and  then ;  dish  it  up,  and  pour  sauce  over,  or  serve  in  the 
pan ;  if  the  sauce  should  be  too  thin,  boil  on  the  fire  till  it  gets 

(^  of  a  thickish  substance. 


26  FISH   IN   FrvYING-PAK. 

69.  Macherel  in  'Pie  Dish. — Open  two  or  three  mackerel  on 
file  back,  cut  off  the  tail  and  head,  rub  the  inside  and  outside 
Jvith  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  parsley ;  mix  in  a  bason  half  a 
f  int  of  melted  butter,  No.  410,  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
fennel  and  parsley,  and  a  tablespoonf al  of  vinegar ;  put  the  fish 
in  the  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  well  bread-crumb  it;  put 
it  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  and  serve.  The  roe  ma}'* 
be  left  in  the  fish,  or  chopped  up  and  mixed  with  the  sauce. 
Balls  of  cod-liver  may  be  added. 

70.  Fielded  Macherel^  Plain  Way. — Cut  two  onions  in  thin 
slices,  mix  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  mixed  spice  or 
peppercorn ;  then  have  four  mackerel  ready,  with  the  gills  and 
gut  removed,  but  not  cut ;  put  a  little  of  the  onions  inside,  and 
rub  the  outside  with  them ;  and  then  rub  them  with  flour,  put 
them  in  the  dish,  put  in  the  remainder  of  the  onions,  add  half  a 
pint  of  vinegar  and  a  gill  of  water ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  one 
hour;  use  cold.     They  will  keep  a  long  time. 

71.  Fresh  Herriiigs,  Sprats,  and  Smelts  may  all  be  done  the 
same  way,  only  they  require  less  time  to  bake.    Any  other  kind  of ! 
fish,  if  in  small  pieces,  may  be  done  this  way,  and  is  excellent  in  \ 
summer  with  salad.     The  flavour  or  the  pickling  may  be  im- 
proved by  adding  three  cloves,  two  blades  of  mace,  some  pepper- 
corns, a  little  garlic,  and  some  sweet-herbs,  according  to  taste. 


PEIED  FISH. 

The  great  art  in  frying  fish  is,  to  have  it  free  from  grease,  and 
in  that  state  it  is  one  of  the  most  delicate  descriptions  of  food  that  j 
can  be  given  to  the  invalid,  and  at  the  same  time  the  most  nourish-  j 
ing.  The  sudden  immersion  in  the  fat  solidifies  the  albumen  in  tlia  j 
siesh  of  the  fish,  and  renders  it  easy  ol  digestion;  the  coating  of  bread-  j 
crumbs  prevents  the  fat  penetrating  into  the  fish,  and  when  eaten  by  j 
the  iBvaiid,  the  skin  should  be  removed,  and  only  the  white  flesh  I 
|)artakQn  o£ 

The  great  point  is  to  liasve  plenty  of  fat  in  the  pan,  for  it  is  no} 
v^asteilj  far  from  it.     If  it  is  kept  at  a  proper  degree  of  heat,  in  tl.'.? 
same  pan  a  sole  may  be  fried,  and  at  the  samts  time  an  apple  iritter 
ifielther  \yill  taste  of  the  other,  proving  that  the  high  degree  of  heafpj 
hi  fe  fat  iQ^revents  the  fiavoiu-  of  the  object  immersed  in  it  escaping^  | 


FISH   IN   -FEYING-PAN.  27 

72.  Fried  Sole. — Put  a  pound  or  two  of  fat  into  a  deep 
frying-pan ;  whilst  it  is  getting  hot,  take  a  sole,  of  course  cleaned, 
cut  oft"  the  fins  and  tail,  wipe  it  with  a  cloth,  Qgg  it,  and  cove? 
with  bread-crumbs  all  over,  shake  off  the  loose  crumbs,  anci 
press  it,  and  lay  the  sole  in  the  fat,  the  white  part,  or  belly, 
downwards ;  the  fat  must  be  at  a  proper  heat,  which  is  ascer" 
tained  by  throv/ing  a  pmch  of  crumb  into  it;  if  it  hisses,  it  is  ready  ? 
if  it  burns,  it  is  over-done ;  if  of  a  nice  colour  it  will  do.  Tui-n 
it  once  while  doing.  A  middle-sized  sole  will  take  ten  minutes. 
Take  it  out,  place  it  on  a  cloth ;  if  any  fat  is  on  it,  it  will  come 
off.  Dish  it  on  a  napkin,  on  which  it  hardly  ought  to  show 
a  spot  of  grease.     This  receipt  is  applicable  to  all  kinds  of  fish ; 

i  but  large  round  fish  should  not  be  fi:ied  whole,  only  the  fillets,  or 
t  thin  slices.     Whitings  may  be  fried  whole,  like  sole,  and  will 

take  about  ten  minutes ;  flounders,  about  five  or  six  minutes ; 

smelts,  gudgeons,  four  or  five  minutes.  The  last  should  be  frie4 
:  as  few  as  possible  at  a  time,  and  served  crisp. 

73.  Large  soles,  plaice,  cod,  halibut,  conger  eels,  ling,  hake, 
weaver,  should  all  be  fried  in  fillets,  or  thin  slices ;  the  sole  should 
be  cut  down  the  back  bone ;  then  run  the  knife  under  the  flesh, 
close  to  the  bone,  and  cut  it  off;  thus  each  sole  will  make  four 
fillets ;  or  they  may  be  cut  across  in  pieces  of  three  inches,  with 
the  bone  in. 

74.  Plaice  do  in  the  same  way,  cut  in  pieces  one  inch  wide. 
Cod  should  be  filleted  lengthways,  or  in  slices.  Hake,  haddock, 
and  gurnet,  the  same ;  halibut,  ling,  and  conger  eel,  in  very  thin 
slices,  that  is,  not  more  than  half  an  inch  thick.  Salt  should  be 
sprinkled  over  them  half  an  hour  previous.  All  these  should 
be  egged  and  bread-crumbed,  as  described  in  sole.  All  fish 
cooked  in  this  way  are  excellent  cold,  as  a  salad,  in  summer. 

^  Slices  should  be  broken,  or  cut,  for  about  a  pound  of  fish,  and 
i  put  into  a  bowl,  v/ith  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  four  of 
>  oil,  half  do.  of  olicpped  parsley,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter 
ddo.  of  pepper.  Toss  it  up  well,  that  it  may  mix;  it  is  ver^ 
r!  cooling,  and  makes  a  light  supper.  A  little  fresh  salad,  as  lettuce, 
p  endive,  &c.,  makes  it  still  more  so.  Slices  of  cooked  potatoes, 
!  lentils,  and  haricots,  may  be  introduced. 


75.  Fried  Fish,  Jewish  FasMon, 

This  is  another  excellent  way  of  frying  fish,  wliicli  is  constaiitly  m 
use  by  the  children  of  Israel,  and  I  cannot  recommend  it  too  highly ; 
BO  much  so,  that  various  kinds  of  fish  which  many  people  despise,  are 
excellent  cooked  by  this  process;  in  eating  them  many  persons  are 
deceived,  and  would  suppose  them  to  be  the  most  expensive  offish.  The- 
process  is  at  once  simple,  effective,  and  economical;  not  that  I  would 
recommend  it  for  invalids,  as  the  process  imbibes  some  of  the  fat, 
which,  however  palatable,  would  not  do  for  the  dyspeptic  or  in- 
valid. 

76.  Proceed  thus :— -Cut  one  or  two  pounds  of  halibut  in  ona 
piece,  lay  it  in  a  di^li,  cover  the  top  with  a  little  salt,  put  some 
water  in  the  dish,  but  not  to  cover  the  fish ;  let  it  remain  thus 
for  one  hour.  The  water  being  below,  causes  the  salt  to  pene- 
trate into  the  fish.  Take  it  out  and  dry  it ;  cut  out  the  bone, 
and  the  fins  off;  it  is  then  in  two  pieces.  Lay  the  pieces  on 
the  side,  and  divide  them  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick;  put 
into  a  flying  pan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat,  lard,  or 
dripping  (the  Jews  use  oil) ;  then  put  two  ounces  of  fiour  into  a 
soup-plate,  or  basin,  which  mis  with  water,  to  form  a  smooth 
batter,  not  too  thick.  Dip  the  fish  in  it,  that  the  pieces  are 
well  covered  ^  then  have  the  fat,  not  too  hot,  put  the  pieces  in  it, 
and  fry  till  a  nice  colour,  turning  them  over.  When  done,  take 
it  out  with  a  slice,  let  it  drain,  dish  up,  and  serve.  Any  kind 
of  sauce  that  is  liked  may  be  used  with  it ;  but  plain,  with  a 
little  salt  and  lemon,  is  excellent.  This  fixsh  is  often  only  three- 
pence to  fourpence  per  pound;  it  containing  but  little  bone 
renders  it  very  economical.  It  is  excellent  cold,  and  can  be 
eaten  with  oil,  vinegar,  and  cucumbers,  in  summer  time,  and  is 
exceedingly  cooling.     An  Q^g  is  an  improvement  in  the  batter. 

The  same  fish  as  before  mentioned  as  fit  for  frying,  may  be 
fried  in  this  manner.  Eels  are  excellent  done  so ;  the  batter 
absorbs  the  oil  which  is  in  them. 

Flounders  may  also  be  done  in  this  vf ay.  A  little  salt  should 
be  sprinkled  over  before  serving. 

77.  In  some  Jewish  families  all  this  kind  of  fish  is  fried  in 
cil,  and  dipped  in  batter,  as  described  above.  In  some  families 
they  dip  the  fish  first  in  flour,  and  then  in  q^^,  and  fry  in  oil. 
This  plan  is  superior  to  that  fried  in  fat  or  dripping,  but  nioiy 
expenaiie,^ 


I 


VARIOUS  DISEffiS-  IH  THE  IHON   FOT.  29 

Many  of  the  above-menuoned  families  have  stated  days  ca 
wMcli  they  fry,  or  stew  their  fish,  which  will  keep  good  several 
days  in  summer,  and  I  may  almost  say,  weeks  in  winter ;  anJ 
being  generally  eaten  cold,  it  saves  them  a  deal  of  cooking.  Still, 
I  must  say  that  there  is  nothing  like  a  hot  dinner. 


THE  THREE-LEGGED  IRON  POT. 

INTEODUCTION, 

Deaeest  Feiekd,— You  are  aware  that  every  cottage  throughout 
the  land  has  a  peculiarity  in  cookery  and  cooking  utensils,  which 
nothing  can  alter.  One  of  them  has  a  great  claim  on  our  gratitude, 
which  neither  time  nor  place  can  erase.  War,  famine,  epidemic, 
revolutions,  which  have  from  time  to  time  shaken  the  foundation  of 
mighty  empires,  has  not  caused  a  wrinkle  to  appear  on  his  nobk 
brow  even  in  this  miraculous  age  of  discovery,  which  has  created 
railways,  steam,  electricity,  photography,  and  by  the  last  powerful 
agent  we  are  actually  enabled  to  take  the  strongest  fortifications 
without  bloodshed. 

Kot  even  one  of  the  miracles  of  the  nineteenth  centmy  has  affected 
his  noble  position  one  jot :  he  is  a  posterity  in  himself,  and  no  throne' 
ever  has  been,  or  ever  will  be,  stronger  than  his. 

In  winter,  when  aU  nature  is  desolate,  when  hoary  Erost  spreads 
his  white  mantle  over  the  myriads  of  defunct  flowers,  then  this 
homely  king  rallies  round  him  his  subjects,  to  entertain,  comfort,  and 
feed  them,  and  make  them  happy,  even  when  nature  has  ahnost  refused 
to  humanity  her  powerful  service.  This  mighty  monarch,  Eloise,  is  no 
other  than  the  three-legged  iron  pot,  who  has  done  such  good  service 
for  so  many  generations,  and  will  continue  to  do  so  if  properly  treated 
by  his  subjects. 

So  much  for  his  moral  virtues ;  but  let  us  see  what  he  has  been 
doing,  and  if  we  can  make  him  do  anything  more,  and  that  in  ac- 
cordance w^ith  the  enlightenment  of  the  nineteenth  century.  You 
v/iH  perhaps  say,  that  it  is  dangeroup  to  try  to  make  any  change  in 
s  government  so  well  established.  Kot  at  all ;  my  object  is  not  to 
interfere  with  his  noble  position,  and  deprive  him  of  his  rights.  On 
the  contrary,  I  only  \\hlx  to  enrich  his  kingdom,  which  I  am  sure  no 
ttensible  monarch  can  object  to. 

Now  for  the  immortal  Fot-Uich,  All  the*'^  rsceipis  are  for  on-^ 
«oii<-*iimnsr  two  erallons. 


30  YAPJOUS   DISHES   IN   THE   IP.ON    POT. 

78.  Satt  Beef. — Put  in  a  piece  of  six  pounds,  add  four  quarts 
of  cold  water ;  boil  gently  for  three  hours.  One  hour  before 
Bcrvdng,  wash  clean,  and  cut  the  roots  away  of  two  cabbages, 
which  cut  up  in  foui  pieces,  and  put  in  the  pot  with  the  meat. 
When  done,  drain  the  cabbage,  and  place  round  the  beef  on  the 
dish,  and  serve.  Leave  the  broth  or  liquor  from  the  meat  on 
the  hre,  put  in  two  pounds  of  split  peas,  a  little  pepper  and  brown 
sugar;  boil  slowly  till  done,  and  put  by,  uncovered,  fornextday, 
to  drink  with  the  cold  meat.  If  more  salt  and  pepper  is  required, 
add  it :  if,  on  the  contrar}^,  it  should  be  too  salt,  add  more  water 
and  a  pound  of  potatoes.  Or  sldm-milk  may  be  added,  and 
about  one  pound  of  toasted  bread,  cut  into  dice,  and  put  in  the 
soup  when  serving ;  or  half  a  pound  of  flour,  mixed  with  a  pint 
of  water.  Every  part  of  salted  beef  may  be  boiled  thus, 
using  about  four  ounces  of  vegetables  to  every  pound  of  meat, 
instead  of  cabbage.  Turnip-tops,  brocoli-sprouts,  green  kale, 
carrots,  turnips,  Swedes,  parsnips,  &c.  &c.,  may  be  used.  Suet 
dumpling  may  be  served  with  it. 

The  pieces  of  beef  generally  salted  are  the  brisket,  edge  bone, 
round,  flank,  skirt.  The  ribs,  v/hen  salted,  are  very  fine,  and 
much  more  economical  than  when  roasted.  This  receipt  if 
adopted  for  a  farm-house;  but  two  pounds  of  beef,  and  the 
other  things  in  proportion  to  be  used  for  a  small  family.  Eice 
may  be  used  instead  of  peas. 

79.  Salt  Forh. — Put  four  pounds  of  salt  pork,  either  leg, 
loin,  head,  belly,  or  feet,  into  the  pot  with  six  quarts  of  water, 
and  one  pound  of  split  peas.  In  one  hour  add  four  greens,  cut 
small,  or  turnip-tops,  leeks,  parsnips,  &c.  &c.,  placed  in  a  net, 
and  boiled  in  the  pot.  When  done,  take  them  out,  and  keep 
warm.  Mix  half  a  pound  of  flour  with  one  pint  of  water,  and 
put  in  the  pot,  and  stir  it  round.  Boil  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve 
the  meat  and  soup  separate,  and  vegetables  round  the  meat. 
Pieces  of  bacon,  knuckles  of  ham,  cooked  in  the  same  way,  ara 
very  nice,  only  they  will  take  rather  longer  boiling.  A  t^a* 
spoonful  of  pepper  may  be  added. 

You  will  perceive,  my  friend,  that  I  have  already  opened  a  largs 
iield  for  our  old  hero,  adding  in  a  few  lines  about  twsnty  new 
subjects  in  the  shape  of  receipts  to  liis  kingdom.  ^ 

80.  Veal. — The  flesh  of  the  calf  being  of  that  liffht  nature, 


TARIOUS   DISHES   IN   THE   IKON    POT.  31 

requires  more  the  process  of  roasting,  or  stewing,  than  of  boiling, 

except  for  the  purpose  of  making  broth,  for  which  purpose  it  is 

superior  to  any  other  kind  of  meat.     The  only  part  which  is 

usually  done  so,  is  the  knuckle,  and  if  cooked  in  the  following 

way,  is  not  an  expensive  dish : — Get  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  a 

small  knuckle  of  ham,  weighing  together  about  six  pounds.     Or 

in  the  absence  of  the  ham,  or  bacon,  two  pounds  of  the  belly  of 

pork.     Put  this  in  the  pot,  and  fill  up  with  six  quarts  of  water 

;  and  four  spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  two  carrots,  cut  in  dice, 

t  two  onions  and  two  turnips.     Boil  gently  for  three  hours,  take 

I  out  the  meat  and  serve  with  mashed  turnips,  or  potatoes.     Plain, 

c  or  parsley  and  butter  over.     The  liquor  boiled  up  with  a  pound 

^  of  ground  rice,  mixed  in  a  quart  of  cold  water.     Put  in  and  boil 

i  for  half  an  hour,  and  save  for  the  next  day's  use.     When  boiled 

'  for  next  day,  add  any  remains  of  the  veal,  cut  small,  and  put 

in  it,  with  a  little  milk,  if  handy.     Whole  rice,  or  peas,  may  be 

used.     Pour  Swedish  turnips  may  be  boiled  with  the  veal,  and 

eaten  with  it,  mashed  up  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.     Yege- 

t,  tables  may  be  omitted  when  scarce. 

81.  Mutton.  —  The  leg,  neck,  breast,  head,  and  feet,  are 
1  most  often  boiled ;  sometimes  the  shoulder,  when  not  too  fat, 

is  boiled,  smothered  in  onions.  Whichever  joint  it  is,  the 
pot  must  be  filled  with  water,  to  which  six  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt  and  one  of  pepper  have  been  added.  Put  in  the  joint  and 
ten  peeled  turnips.  When  either  joint  is  done,  take  it  out,  and 
serve  the  turnips  round.  Parsley  and  butter,  capers,  or  chopped 
\  gherkins,  mixed  with  melted  butter,  may  be  served  with  boiled 
mutton. 

Save  the  liquor  for  the  next  day,  add  to  it  half  a  pound  of 
Scotch  barley  and  a  pound  of  any  vegetables  that  may  be  in 
season.  Boil  for  one  hour,  and  serve  with  toasted  bread.  Or 
-nstead  of  barley,  two  pounds  of  potatoes,  sliced,  and  boiled 
with  the  vegetables,  make  a  nice  soup.  Por  every  pound  of 
this  joint,  let  it  cook  fifteen  minutes. 

82.  Ham. — A  ham  of  about  fourteen  pounds  will  take  about 
four  hours,  and  ought  to  be  boiled  in  a  three-gallon  pot.     Put 

i  in  the  ham,  and  fill  up  with  water :  skim  off  the  scum  as   it 

t  rises ;  if  wanted  to  be  eaten  cold,  allow  it  to  get  cold  in  the 

pot.     If  it  "is  an  old  ham,  it  should  be  soaked  for  twelve  hours 

previously.     Some  carrots,  turnips,   and  other  vegetables,  may 


1  j^ 


S:^.  O^  PKESEEVIKG  HAMS  AND  BACOH. 

be  boiled,  with  also  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  which  will 
improve  the  flavour  of  the  ham.  If  the  liquor  is  used  for  soup 
a  couple  of  cow  heels  may  be  boiled  with  it,  which  may  be  eaten 
Eeparately,  or  cut  up  in  the  soup,  which  should  be  strained.  Or. 
fry  ten  onions,  sliced,  until  nearly  brown ;  add  to  them  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  stir  well  in,  then  add  som.e  of  the  liquor  from  the 
ham,  until  it  is  rather  thick ;  put  into  a  tureen,  and  pour  mortr 
over  it,  and  serve  with  slices  of  bread.  Or  instead  of  onions^ 
use  cabbage  or  leeks. 

As  many  cottagers  kill  their  own  pigs,  and  cure  the  hams  and 
bacon,  and  often  boil  only  half  the  ham  at  a  time,  the  knuckle 
part  should  be  boiled  last,  and  the  yellow  fat,  if  any  on  it,  should 
be  cut  away. 


IMPOETANT  OBSEEYATIONS  0^  CUEmO  HAIMS  AND 
BACOIsr. 

Tons  of  ham  and  bacon  are  yearly  wasted  throughout  the  country 
for  want  of  proper  attention  and  judgment,  in  allowing  the  fat  to  get 
rancid.  Instead  of  hanging  them  up,  as  is  the  custom,  to  a  lo\< 
ceiling,  in  every  cottage  or  farmer's  kitchen,  the  consequence  OT 
which  is,  that  the  continual  heat  turns  the  fat  and  flesh  of  such  a  quad- 
ruped as  dry  as  a  mummy,  while,  hy  the  following  simple  rules,  they 
would  keep  equally  as  long  without  undergoing  this  antique  Egyptian 
process. 

To  prov6  AO  you  the  truth  of  my  rem.arks — about  six  months  ago, 
I  was  on  a  visit  to  our  excellent  friend,  William  Tucker,  Esq.,  of 
Coriton  Park,  near  Axminster,  Devon,  when  all  the  neighhourhood 
was  searched  to  get  a  couple  of  home-cured  country  hams ;  however, 
no  such  thing  was  to  be  found ;  every  one  of  them  bought  were  dried 
to  chips.  The  fat  of  the  first  one  we  operated  on,  when  sawn  in 
two,  (for  we  could  not  cut  it  in  the  ordinary  way,)  was  of  a  blackish 
yellow,  and  the  meat  of  the  same  colour  as  rotten  wood,  only  much 
harder.  Being  anxious  to  see  the  person  who  had  so  effectively 
"  preserved'^  this  ham,  a  very  natty,  clean  old  woman  was  brought  to 
me ;  and  on  showing  her  the  bone,  and  asking  her  for  the  receipt, 
ehe  said  she  did  not  know  how  it  was  done,  but  her  son  Thomas  did, 
and  she  knew  he  would  be  glad  to  give  me  the  receipt,  to  which 
proposition  I  strongly  objected,  at  the  same  time  writing  down  the 
following  receipt,  which  she  said  her  son  vfould  doubtless  follow. 

After  you  have  pickled  your  ham  or  bacon  for  either  winter  or 
summer  use^  dry  the  moisture  with  a.  cloth,  and  hap/^  it  in  your 


VABIOUS  DISHES  IH  THE  BLACK  POT.  33 

Htclien  for  about  tliree  weeks,  or  until  the  outside  "begins  to  crystal- 
Sze ;  tlien  remove  it  to  your  dairy,  or  any  other  dampish  place,  for  a 
few  days ;  then  place  it  in  your  kitchen  agam,  and  so  on,  backwards 
and  forwards,  three  or  four  times,  till  perfectly  dry,  and  quite  sound; 
if  any  part  should  happen  to  get  yellow  and  rancid,  scrape  it  off, 
rubbing  the  spot  with  a  mixture  of  salfc,  pepper,  and  flour  j  but 
be  sure  you  don^t  keep  it  eighteen  months,  as  it  appears  the  old 
woman's  son  did;  so  that,  with  all  the  indulgence  of  nature,  who 
allows  us  to  preserve  meat,  by  means  of  pickhng  it,  for  some  con- 
siderable time,  yet  common  sense  tells  us,  that  it  will  not  last  for 
ever.  Ham,  when  v/ell  cured  by  experienced  hands,  can  be  kept 
good  for  several  years.  The  fault  I  before  mentioned,  exists  in  every 
county,  not  exce]3ting  Westmoreland  and  Yorkshire,  which  two  latter, 
being  ham  counties,  of  course  the  evil  does  not  rmi  to  so  great  an 
extent.  I  daresay,  Eloise,  you  v/ill  fancy  this  country  conversatioi*; 
rather  too  long  to  be  pleasant.  You  may  be  right,  as  far  as  its  value 
as  reading  for  the  drawing-room  goes,  but  let  me  tell  you  again,  that 
if  these  simple  plans  were  adopted,  more  than  one  hundred  thousand 
tons  of  meat  would  be  saved  throughout  the  kingdom  yearly,  and 
made  to  feed  man  rather  than  wasted  as  it  is  at  present. 


LAMB.      ■ 

I  think  I  ought  not  to  mention  this  innocent  and  playful  little 
animal,  but  on  second  consideration,  and  remembering  that  King 
Alfred  once  sought  shelter  in  a  cottage,  and  it  being  possible  that 
from  accident,  or  some  other  cause,  that  a  cottager  might  find  him- 
self unexpectedly  honoured  by  a  guest,  to  whom  lie  would  like  to 
give  a  delicacy,  which  could  not  be  done  better  in  the  elaborate 
kitchens  of  the  most  wealthy,  than  in  the  old  iron  pot  of  the  most 
humble  abode. 

It  is  rare  that  lamb  is  partaken  of  by  the  labourer,  as  he  requires 
more  strengthening  nourishment  for  his  hard-looking  fi-ame,  v^hich 
can  digest  everything  eatable,  without  the  aid  of  medical  science. 
These  delicacies  are  left  to  those  who  would  give  a  great  deal  if  they 
could  possess  the  good  appetite  and  the  organic  mastication  of  a 
labouring  man. 

83.  Boiled  Leg  of  Lamb. — ^Put  six  quarts  of  water  into  the  pot, 
with  six  teaspoonfuls  of  salt ;  when  boiling  put  in  tha  lamb,  boil 
slowly  for  one  hour ;  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises ;  serve  it  with 
plain  melted  butter,  or  parsley  and  butter,  or  caper  sauce ;  boiled 
turnips  or  spinach.  Th  Vroth  may  be  made  into  soup  the 
same  as  the  m.utton. 

84  Boiled  Eabbit.'--S\  i^  a  rabbit  as  No.  456;  put  in  pot  ten 


34  VARIOUS   DISHES    IN   THE    BLACK    POT. 

or  twelve  large  onions,  witli  four  quarts  of  water ;  boil  them  till 
tender,  then  add  tlte  rabbit,  simmering  slowly  for  one  horn.-,  if 
large:  dish  it  up,  keeping  it  warm;  take  out  the  onions,  chop 
them,  and  put  into  a  pan  or  the  pot  with  two  ounces  of  butter, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  four  of  flour ;  mix  all  w^ell  to  form 
a  puree,  add  a  pint  of  milk,  boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring  now 
and  then;  pour  over  the  rabbit  and  serve ;  little  pieces  of  pickleO 
pork  boiled  with  it  is  an  improvement.    Use  the  broth  as  above. 

85.  Our  Christmas  Dinner — Small  Boiled  Tiirlcey, — Pii 
into  the  pot  four  quarts  of  water,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
one  of  pepper,  have  the  turkey  ready  stuffed,  as  No.  456 ;  wheA 
the  water  boils,  put  in  the  turkey,  and  four  pieces  of  salt 
pork  or  bacon,  of  about  half  a  pound  each,  or  whole,  if  you 
prefer  it;  also  add  half  a  pound  of  onions,  one  of  white 
celer}^,  six  peppercorns,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs;  boil  slowly 
for  one  hour  and  a  half,  mix  three  ounces  of  flour  with  two 
ounces  of  butter ;  melt  it  in  a  small  pan,  add  a  pint  of  the 
liquor  from  the  pot,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk,  the  onions  and 
celery  taken  out  of  the  pot,  and  cut  up  and  added  to  it;  boil  for 
twenty  minutes,  until  it  is  thickish ;  serve  the  turkey  on  a  dish, 
ihe  bacon  separate,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  bird. 

A  turkey  done  in  this  way  is  delicious.  With  the  liquor,  in 
which  you  may  add  a  little  colom-ing,  a  vermicelli,  rice,  or  clear 
vegetable  soup  can  be  made ;  skim  off  the  fat,  and  serve. 

The  above  with  a  plum  pudding  boiled  the  day  before,  and 
rewarmed  in  boiling  water  in  the  pot  whilst  eating  the  soup 
and  turkey,  and  the  addition  of  potatoes,  baked  in  the  embers, 
imder  the  grate,  is  a  very  excellent  dinner,  and  can  all  be  dona 
Vy»ith  the  black  pot. 

FoidIs  and  CJiichens  may  be  done  the  same  way,  giving  onlj 
half-an-hour  for  chickens,  and  three  quarters  for  fowls. 

86.  A  cheap  Tripe  Dinner. — Sometimes  the  cuttings  of  tripe, 
or  pig's  chitterlings,  or  even  a  cow-heel,  can  be  had  very  cheap,  in 
which  case  they  should  be  cut  into  square  pieces ;  peel  eight  good 
onions,  and  ten  large  potatoes,  for  every  four  pounds  of  the  meat . 
lay  some  of  the  potatoes  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  season  with  sal^ 
and  pepper^  then  some  of  the  tripe,  then  onions  and  potatoes. 
until  all  is  in ;  then  mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  floar  vvdtb  throe 
quarts  of  water;  mix  smooth,  and  boil  gently  for  tvv'o  hours;. 


VAUIOUS  DISHES   IH  THE  BLACK   POT.  35 

Scram  and  serve.     This  will  make  enongk  food  for  a  family  of 
twelve,  and  cost  about  one  shilling  and  sixpence. 

87.  Calve  s  Head  and  Feet. — If  by  any  chance  either  of 
these  articles  are  to  be  bought  cheap,  which  is  sometimes  the 
case  in  London  or  any  market  town,  cut  the  head  open,  take 
©ut .  the  brains,  put  it  in  the  pot  with  six  teaspoonfuls  oi 
salt,  two  of  pepper,  four  onions,  parsley,  and  a  little  thyme ; 
put  in  six  quarts  of  water,  in  which  mix  one  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  flour ;  being  placed,  set  it  to  boil  gently,  skim  it  occasionally, 
boil  three  hours ;  just  before  serving,  add  a  wineglass  of  vinegar ; 
serve  with  parsley  and  butter,  alone,  or  with  the  brains,  cleaned 
and  boiled  in  it ;  sharp  sauce,  No.  420. 

The  feet  may  be  boiled  in  the  same  way.  The  liquor  makes 
an  excellent  soup  for  the  next  day,  either  thick  or  thin,  and  with 
or  without  vegetables,  or  puree  of  peas,  carrots,  tm-nips,  &c., 
or  mock  turtle. 

88.  Slieep^s  TLead  and  ^^e^.— Take  two  sheeps'  heads  and  cut 
the  same  as  calf's  head,  and  put  in  pot,  with  halfa  pound  of  pearl 
barley,  four  spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  two  carrots,  four 
onions,  and  four  quarts  of  water;  boil  for  about  two  hom-s, 
or  until  tender,  and  serve. 

Eour  feet  added  to  it  improve  the  broth.  The  heads  when 
cooked  may  be  egged  and  bread-crumbed  over,  and  then  put  in 
the  oven  to  brown  fcr  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Eat  it  either 
plain  or  with  sharp  sauce.  Calves'  head  is  very  good  done  the 
same. 

89.  Curry  FisJi. — Put  into  the  pot  four  onions  and  two 
apples,  in  thin  slices,  some  bayleaf,  thyme,  or  savory,  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  or  dripping,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  fry  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
then  pour  in  three  quarts  of  water  and  One  pound  of  rice ;  boil 
till  tender ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  curry-powder,  mixed  in  a 
little  water ;  cut  up  six  pounds  of  cheap  fish  the  size  of  an  q^^  ; 
add  to  the  abov©,  and  boil  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  according 
to  the  kind  of  fish.  If  salt  fish  is  used,  omit  the  salt.  If  no 
herbs,  do  without,  but  always  use  what  you  can  gQt, 

90.  Savory  Mice. — Take  six  pounds  of  bones,  broken  small  j 
k)il  in  eight  guarts  of  water  for  three  hours,  having;  ^dded  threr 


3b  VARIOUS  DISHES  m  'Tim  black  Pot. 

tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  a  buncli  of  tliyme,  Layleaf,  and  savoi^, 
if  any.  Y/lien  done,  poiir  it  into  an  eartlien  pan,  remove  the 
bones;  tlie  fat  will  do  for  puddings;  or  put  the  fat  or  two 
ounces  of  dripping  into  the  pot,  with  two  onions  cut  thin,  half  3 
pound  of  either  carrots,  turnips,  or  celery,  cut  thin;  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar ;  put  it  on  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes, 
stirring  it  continually ;  add  half  a  pound  of  oatmeal,  and  mix 
well ;  then  pour  over  the  stock  that  has  come  from  the  bones. 
Add  one  pound  of  rice  previously  washed ;  boil  till  tender,  and 
serve.     This  will  be  found  both  cheap  and  nutritious. 

91.  I^ice  Panada,— -'Boil  one  pound  of  rice  in  four  quarts  of 
water ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt.  Mix  with  some  cold  water  one  pound  of  flour 
or  oatmeal,  so  that  it  forms  a  thin  paste;  stir  in  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  curry  powder,  add  all  to  the  rice,  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
and  serve.  A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  or  dripping  may  be 
added.  Should  it  he  preferred  sioeet,  use  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  treacle  instead  of  curry.  This  will  make  ten  pounds  of  solid 
food,  and  is  good  either  hot  or  cold. 

92.  Feas  Fanada.'—Cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  bacon^ 
or  pork,  into  small  dice ;  put  it  in  the  pot  with  two  onions,  sliced, 
or  leeks :  fry  for  ten  minutes ;  keep  stirring ;  then  add  one  and 
a  quarter  pound  of  split  peas,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of 
sugar,  and  one  gallon  of  water.  Boil  till  it  becomes  a  puree, 
or  pulp ;  then  add  sufficient  oatmeal  or  flour  to  make  it  very 
thick;  simmer  twenty  minutes ;  keep  stirring  it,  and  serve.     . 

Indian  meal  may  be  used,  but  it  must  be  soaked ;  the  husk, 
which  floats,  removed,  boiled  for  two  hours,  and.  then  added  to 
it.     If  there  are  no  onions,  use  some  sweet  herbs. 

Tills  may  he  made  sweet  hy  omitting  the  bacon,  and  using 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  treacle,  and  when  cold,  may  be  cut  to 
pieces,  and  given  to  children  as  food. 

93.  Cheese  Stirabout, — ITearly  fill  the  iron  pot  with  water, 
throw  in  three  table  tablespoonsful  of  salt ;  when  boiling,  throw 
in  by  degrees  some  Indian  meal, — the  quantity  depends  on  the 
quality ;  on  an  average,  if  the  v^ater  is  soft,  one  pound  to  every 
two  quarts ;  that  would  be  four  pounds.  When  well  stirred, 
remove  the  husk  with  a  spoon,  which  floats  on  the  top.  Then 
throw  in  one  poun^^  of  strong  cheese,  broken  in  pieces,  or  grated 


YAKIOUS  DISHES   m  THE   BLACK   POT.  37 

Boil  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve.  Or,  put  it  on  a  greasy  Laldng- 
tin,  throw  some  more  cheese  on  tlie  top,  put  in  the  oven  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  serve.  Or,  allov/  it  to  get  cold,  cut  w 
pieces,  and  fry, 

94.  Indian  Meal  FouUenta.-—'Bo^  the  meal  as  above  (it 
must  be  very  thick),  without  the  cheese ;  mind  that  it  is  stirred 
up  a  great  deal,  or  it  will  catch  to  the  bottom  of  the  pot ;  pour 
some  into  a  baking-dish  well  greased ;  cut  some  beef  or  pork, 
sausages,  saveloys,  or  black  puddings,  into  slices,  and  place  them 
on  it.  Cover  this  over  with  some  more  meal  from  the  pot ; 
bake  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve. 

This  is  an  excellent  and  cheap  dish,  and  well  worthy  the 
attention  of  all  classes,  now  that  flour  has  become  so  expensive  ; 
it  is  fit  for  the  tables  of  the  most  wealthy,  if  a  strong  gravy  is 
poured  over  it  when  served.  This  may  be  made  sweet  with 
*?ither  jam,  treacle,  or  brown  sugar. 

95.  Another  Way. — For  the  above  proportion,  mince  about 
two  pounds  of  meat,  as  No.  156,  or  liver.  Mix  well,  then  let 
it  get  cold ;  cut  and  fry  anyhow  you  like ;  of  course  omit 
saveloys  and  black-puddings  vfhen  meat  is  used. 

In  France,  ox-liver  is  used  in  soup,  to  flavour  the  broth,  and  many 
people  eat  it,  fried  or  stewed.  If  it  is  in  use  in  cooking  in  one 
country,  why  should  we  not  give  it  a  trial.  The  proverb  says, 
'*  what  is  good  for  the  goose  is  good  for  the  gander,"  therefore  what 
is  good  for  our  neighbours  and  allies  cannot  possibly  be  bad  for  us. 
An  ox  in  France  is  uncommonly  like  an  English  one,  and  these 
quadrupeds  are  equally  as  particular  in  their  selection  of  food  as 
ours ;  and  if  the  calves^  pigs',  sheep's,  and  lambs'  liver  is  fit  for  the 
tables  of  the  wealthy,  why  should  not  that  of  the  ox  be  deemed  good 
for  human  food. 

It  is  our  duty,  Eloise,  in  this  work,  to  bring  every  vv'holesome 
iiind  of  cheap  food  to  the  notice  of  the  poor,  so  that  with  a  little 
exertion,  they  may  live,  and  live  well,  vvith  the  few  pence  they  earn, 
instead  ol  living  badly  at  times,  and  most  extravagantly  at  others, 
and  not  to  allow  nourishing  food  to  be  wasted,  as  it  is  at  present. 
In  many  parts,  and  even  in  Ireland,  during  the  year  of  the  famine, 
those  who  were  starving  would  not  partake  of  ox-liver.  These  are 
bought  up  in  that  country,  put  into  casks,  with  salt,  sent  over  to  a 
Bea-port  in  England ;  they  are  then  subjected  to  a  cold  pressure,  by 
Which  the  liquid  is  extracted,  which  is  used  for  adulterating  an 


38  VARIOUS   DISHES   IN   THE    BLACK   POT. 

ort'cle  in  universal  use ;  the  remains  are  then  dried  in  ovens,  pounded, 
and  sent  back  to  Ireland  to  be  made  into  snnfi*. 

96.  Stewed  Ox  Seart  and  Liver. — ¥/ash  tlie  heart  well; 
chop  a  few  onions  and  sage,  and  mix  with  it  a  teaspoon' 
ful  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  pepper.  Put  it  in  the  heart, 
and  lay  it  in  the  pan  with  the  top  part  downwards.  Cut  one 
pound  of  suet  in  quarter  of  a  pound  pieces ;  also  two  pounds  of 
ox  liver,  and  a  little  bacon,  if  handy.  Season  with  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  four  or  five  onions,  three  pounds 
of  potatoes,  and  pour  over  three  quarts  of  water.  Place  it  in 
the  oven  for  three  hoars,  and  it  is  done. 

In  this  dish,  dried  pulse  of  any  kind,  previously  soaked,  may 
be  used  with  advantage,  such  as  the  white  harico  bean,  the  dried 
Windsor  bean,  the  lentil  bean ;  all  of  which  may  be  had  in  the 
winter  time  in  gre?tt  abundance ;  and  it  is  to  be  regretted  that 
there  is  not  a  large  consimiption  in  this  country  of  pulse,  as  the 
crop  does  not  rob  the  ground  so  much  as  the  potato,  and  is  con- 
siderably cheaper  than  flour.  Dried  yellow  or  green  peas  may 
be  used. 

They  are  a  good  article  for  a  tradesman  to  keep  in  stock,  as 
tlicy  do  not  deteriorate,  like  the  potato,  and  only  require  to  bo 
known,  to  be  equally  as  much  esteemed  as  that  root. 


FRENCH  POT  AU  FEU. 

{TJds  may  also  he  done  in  tlie  iron  saucepan,  sfetvpan,  or 
haJcing-pa7i.) 

I  cannot  expect  that  this  truly  national  soup  of  France  can  be 
vnade  to  perfection,  or  done  with  so  mucli  care  as  in  that  country, 
therefore  I  have  simplified  it,  and  shall  call  it  The  French  Cottage 
Tot  an  Feu,  or  French  Soup. 

97.  Put  a  gaUon  of  water  in  the  pot,  put  four  pounds  of  the 
buttock  of  beef,  or  shin,  or  five  pounds  of  the  thick  part  of  the  leg, 
Hiree  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  four  onions,  four  leeks  cut 
in  pieces,  two  carrots,  and  two  good-sized  turnips,  three  cloves,  one 
burnt  onion,  or  three  spoonfuls  of  colouring ;  set  it  on  the  fire ;  when 
Beginning  to  scum,  skim  it,  and  place  the  pot  on  one  side  of  the  fire. 
Add  now  and  then  a  drop  of  cold  watei,;  it  wiU  make  it  clear.  Boil 
Jbiir  hours.  Bread  sliced,  put  into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  broth, 
^ith  some  of  the  vegetables,  ov^r ;  serve  the  meat  senaratft.  and  the 
remainini?  vegetables  roun^it 


TARIOUS    DISHES    IN    THE   IRON    SAUCEPAN.  39 

If  tliis  simple  receipt  is  well  attended  to^  yon  will  find  it  a  very 
good  soup  and  bouilli.  If  yoii  rim  short  of  any  of  the  vegetables, 
make  it  good  with  others.  If  no  burnt  onions  or  colourings  the  soup 
will  be  white,  instead  of  a  sherry  colour ;  but  still  it  will  be  good. 
In  France  they  always  put  in  half  a  pound  of  ox-liver  to  every  four 
pounds  of  meat.  I  am  sure  they  are  too  good  judges,  over  the  water, 
to  spoil  their  soup ;  in  fact,  there  the  ox-liver  costs  as  much  as  the 
meat  —  sixpence  per  pound  —  therefore  it  is  not  with  a  view  oi 
saving,  but  to  make  it  better. 

97  a.  French  Mag  out  of  Mutton. — Put  in  the  pot  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  dripping :  when  hot,  peel  and  cut  twenty  small 
tui'nips,  or  ten  large  ones,  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  ^\xt 
them  into  the  fat,  and  fry  until  brownish.  Take  them  out,  then 
put  into  the  fat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour ;  stir  round  until 
brown.  You  have  prepared  four  pounds  of  scrag  of  mutton,  cut 
in  small  pieces ;  put  them  in,  and  stir  round ;  then  add  enough 
water  to  cover  the  meat ;  stir  until  boiling.  When  the  mutton 
is  nearly  done,  which  you  will  find  by  trying  it  witli  a  fork, 
add  the  turnips ;  season  with  three  teaspooniuls  of  salt,  one  of 
pepper,  the  same  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  littlo  bit  of  scraped 
garlic,  if  handy.  Any  part  of  mutton  may  be  used.  Eagout  of 
veal  or  Iamb  may  be  done  in  this  manner. 

The  following  receipts  to  be  done  in  a  middle-sized  iron 
saucepan. 

98.  Stetved  Meh.-^Vui  into  a  saucepan  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  onions,  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  No.  410,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce,  oiie  of  vinegar,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
colouring.  Cut  up  one  pound  of  eels  in  pieces  two  inches  long, 
rub  them  in  a  little  flour  and  salt,  put  them  in  the  pan,  and  stew 
for  half  an  hour,  and  serve  witli  some  toasted  bread  round.  A 
little  ale  or  wine  may  be  used  instead  of  vinegar,  and  the  sauce 
should  be  thick. 

n 

99.  Stewed  Eels.  No.  2. — Cut  them  as  above,  dip  in  flour, 
and  partly  fry  them  in  fat  a  few  minutes,  and  stew  tliem  as  above, 
lind  serve  witli  toast. 

100.  Eels  Stevjed  Wliite,  "No.  3. — Cut  up  one  pound,  as 
before  ;  put  them  in  the  pan  with  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  three- 
quarters  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  h?lf  of  pepper,  half  an  onion, 
in  slices,  and  some  sprigs  of  parsley.  Stew  gently  for  twenty 
minutes ;  mix  one  ounce  of  butter  with  half  an  ounce  of  fiouTi 


40  VABIOtS  DISHES  IH  THE  IBOH  SAUCEPA 

put  in  your  stewpan  in  small  pieces,  stir  round  gently,  boil  fof 
^ve  minutes,  or  longer,  if  large,  and  serve.  The  juice  of  a 
lemon,  or  a  little  vinegar,  is  an  improvement.  Lampreys 
and  weaver  may  be  done  the  same. 

101.  Cod's  Hard  Boe. — Tie  a  cod's  roe  in  a  cloth,  place  in 
a  pan  two  quarts  of  water  and  tvf  o  teaspoonfuls  of  salt ;  put  in 
the  roe,  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  take  it  out,  cut  off  as  much  as 
you  require,  put  it  in  the  dish,  pour  over  parsley  and  butter,  and 
serve.  Or  egg  sauce,  or  plain,  with  a  little  butter  and  pepper. 
The  remainder,  when  cold,  may  be  cut  into  slices  and  semi- 
fried,  as  fish. 

102.  Cod's  Sounds,  Melt,  and  Frill. — E'othing  is  more  de- 
licate than  this  dish.  Boil  thirty  minutes  in  boiling  salt  and 
water.  Dish  it  up,  pour  thick  Q^g  sauce  over,  or  fennel  sauce, 
or  black  butter,  No.  425a.  The  first-mentioned,  if  salted,  F>''^-'.t 
be  well  soaked. 

Truly,  my  dear  Eloise,  I  cannot  but  return  you  my  very  beat 
thanks  for  the  incessant  inquiries  you  make  as  to  the  state  of  my 
health. 

You  blame  me  in  your  last  letter  for  having  visited  the  small  town 
Qf  Castleford,  as  also  the  beautiful  little  village  of  Methway,  while 
the  cholera  was  raging  in  those  places.  Allow  me  to  impress  upon 
your  mind  that,  first  of  all,  I  have  no  personal  fear  of  the  epidemic, 
and  that  I  take  a  deal  of  interest  in  endeavouring  to  ascertain  the 
cause,  or  partly  so,  of  such  an  awful  visitation,  as  my  letter  of  the 
25th  of  March,  which  has  appeared  in  the  public  press,  will  partly 
explain  the  cause  of  this  calamity.*  In  that  letter  I  ought  to 
have  included  Leeds,  Hull,  and  Bradford,  those  immense  towns  of 
thick  fog,  v/ealth,  manufacturers,  charming  habitations,  palaces,  bad 
drainage,  and  real  black — not  sea,  but — river,  which,  for  want  of 
proper  drainage,  if  not  attended  to,  will  always  subject  those  places 
to  such  epidemics. 

The  working  classes  of  the  commercial  districts  of  Yorkshire  earn 
very  good  wages,  though,  at  the  same  time,  they  work  very  hard; 
their  ignorance  in  the  science  of  cooking,  is  deplorable,  and,  without 
"Roasting,  Eloise,  I  must  say  that  I  have  been  of  some  service  to 
inese  same  people,  in  improving  the  condition  of  their  homes,  as  three 
parts  of  the  wives  of  this  hard-working  class  are  utterly  devoid  of -any 
inovvdedge  of  domestic  economy.  Cookery  to  them  is  almost  un- 
&aov72J,  I  but  I  must  say  they  are  wilHng  to  learn,  and  I  hope  this 


^  See  end  of  the  hooK 


YABIOtJS  DISHES  IN  THE  IRON  SAU0E1PAN.  41 

work  will  be  tlie  means  of  terminating  that  which  I  have  so  success* 
fiiUy  begun. 

Respecting  my  visiting  prisons,  hospitals,  lunatic  asylums,  work- 
houses ;  also  the  interior  of  mines,  coalpits,  &c.  &c. ;  and  though  I 
must  admit  that  those  localities  do  not  show  the  brightest  part  of 
the  mirror  of  life,  still,  you  must  not  fancy  that  these  people  are  all 
unhappy;  on  the  contrary,  they  are  as  contented  as  I  am,  and  not  a 
day  passes  but  what  I  teach  them  something  in  my  way,  at  th/* 
same  time  learning  many  little  things  irorn  them,  and  I  think  you 
will  0¥7n  that  my  correspondence  partakes  more  of  a  jovial  than  a 
morose  nature. 

Such  is  my  opinion  of  that  large  class  of  society,  termed  the 
miUion,  after  nearly  twelve  months  stay  among  them,  throughout 
the  united  queendom. 

IMPORTANT  REMARKS  ON  COD-LIVER  OIL. 

But  now  to  a  very  important  culinary,  and  I  think  medical  discovery, 
which  I  owe  to  my  persevering  visits  to  various  public  charities  in  the 
towns  through  which  I  passed.  This  happened  at  Hull,  about  three 
months  ago,  from  which  town,  if  you  recollect,  I  forwarded  you  the 
drawing  of  the  Station  Hotel,  where  I  was  staying — I  call  it  the 
Monument  Hotel,  being  so  large  and  beautiful.  But  to  come  back  to 
the  question ;  one  of  the  proprietors,  Mr.  Jordan,  on  my  asldng  if  I 
could  visit  the  infirmary,  kindly  proposed  to  conduct  me  there,  and 
introduce  me  to  the  governor,  which  was  done  to  my  entire  satisfac- 
tion I  and  I  must  say  that  the  sick  are  not  better  attended  to  in  any 
similar  estabhshment  I  have  visited  in  the  country. 

Being  aware  of  the  immense  quantity  of  cod-li/er  oil  taken  by 
delicate  persons,  now-a-days,  and  the  great  benefit  derived  from  its 
use,  I  asked  the  medical  ofScer  present  his  opinion  of  its  efficacy. 
"Nothing  can  be  better,"  v/as  his  reply,  "in  many  cases.  But," 
said  he,  "  many  patients  cannot  take  it,  being  of  such  an  unpleasant 
taste,  more  especially  children,  and  as  we  in  this  establishment  use 
the  second  quality,  from  motives  of  economy,  it  is  doubly  unpleasant." 
I  myself  tasted  some,  and  must  say  that  I  found  it  anything  but 
relishing. 

After  bidding  adieu  to  the  doctor,  I  and  my  host  left,  and  while 
returning  to  my  hotel,  T  thought  that  something  could  be  done  tn 
ilter  the  present  unpleasant  way  of  administermg  it.  Accordingly, 
Upon  reaching  home,  I  sent  for  the  following: — 

103.  One  pound  of  fresh  cod-liver ;  I  then  peeled  and  steamed  two 
I  pounds  of  nice  floury  potatoes,  then  cut  the  liver  in  four  pieces,  placed 
i  it  over  the  potatoes,  and  then  steamed  them,  letting  the  oil  from  the 
1  liver  fall  on  the  potatoes;  I  then  made  some  incisions  in  the  liver 
\  With  a  knife,  to  extract  the  remaining  oil,  afterwards  dishing  «|i 


42  VARIOUS   DISHES   IN   THE  IllON   SAUCEPAH. 

the  liver,  wliicli  was  eaten  with  a  little  melted  butter  and  anchovy 
gauce.  The  potatoes  were  served  up  v/itli  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Both  dishes  were  found  extremely  good. 

The  following  is  another  way  of  extracting  the  oil  of  a  cod's  liver, 
fj^ith  the  aid  of  that  abundant  article,  rice. 

104.  I^ice  and  Cod  Liver. — Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  two 
quarts  of  water.  When  nearly  done,  remove  three  parts  of  the 
i^ater ;  then  put  over  your  rice  a  pound  of  cod's  liver,  cut  in 
large  dice.  Put  the  saucepan  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  thirty 
minutes,  by  which  time  it  will  be  nicely  cooked.  Then  take  the 
liver  out,  which  serve  as  above  directed.  Stir  the  rice  with  a 
fork,  and  serve  it ;  if  allowed  by  a  medical  man,  add  a  little  salt 
and  pepper.  If  no  oven,  cook  the  liver  and  rice  on  a  very  slow 
fii-e,  for  otherwise  it  would  burn,  and  be  unwholesome  as  food. 

Of  course  you  can  easily  see  what  a  blessing  such  diet  as  this 
must  be  to  a  person  incapable  of  taking  the  oil  by  itself,  as,  by 
mixing  it  with  the  food,  it  entirely  loses  that  rancid  quality  for 
which  it  is  proverbial. 

105.  Tajpioca  and  Cod  Liver. — Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
tapioca  till  tender  in  two  quarts  of  water ;  drain  it  in  a  cullender, 
then  put  it  back  in  the  pan ;  season  with  a.  little  salt  and  pepper, 
add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  put  over  one  pound  of  fresh  cod  liver, 
cut  in  eight  pieces.  Set  your  pan  near  the  fire  to  simmer 
slowly  for  half  an  hour,  or  a  little  more,  till  yom^  liver  is  quite 
cooked.  Press  on  it  with  a  spoon,  so  as  to  get  as  much  oil  into 
the  tapioca  as  possible.  After  taking  away  the  liver,  mix  the 
tapioca.  If  too  thick,  add  a  little  milk,  then  boil  it  a  few 
minutes ;  stir  round,  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve.  If 
you  have  a  slow  oven,  use  it  in  preference  to  the  fire;  but  if  you 
are  without  an  oven,  here  is  another  good  way  of  cooking  it : 

106.  Put  three  inches  depth  of  water  in  a  largish  pan ;  then 
/)ut  the  pan  containing  the  tapioca  in  the  above-mentioned  pan ; 
let  it  simmer  till  quite  done.  It  will  take  about  an  hour.  By 
adopting  this  plan,  all  fear  of  burning  is  obviated ;  afterwards 
remove  the  liver,  which  serve  as  at  No.  103. 

107.  Sago,  or  semolina,  may  be  done  the  same  way,  and  by 
adding  an  Q^g,  it  will  make  a  delicate  pudding ;  or  by  cutting 
the  liver  in  small  dice,  you  may  add  it  to  your  pudding,  putting 
m  a  little  more  milk  to  make  it  moist  ^  then  add  a  couple  more 


%'ATII0U3   DISHES   IN   THE  IRON   iSAUCEPAN.  43 

eggs,  well  beaten,  and  mix ;  putting  it  in  a  basin,  previously  weU 
outtered ;  then  let  it  simmer  in  a  stewpan  for  half  an  hour,  ot 
till  set ;  then  turn  it  out  on  a  dish ;  sauce  with  a  little  plain 
melted  butter,  anchovy,  or  parsley  and  butter. 

A  little  stringent  food,  such  as  the  above,  will  be  found  very 
refreshing,  even  to  persons  in  good  health. 

108.  Eice  may  be  also  turned  to  good  account ;  and  I  do  not 
see  why,  after  having  taken  the  liver  out,  and  adding  four  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  little 
lemon  peel,  it  would  not  make  a  very  good  sweet  pudding.  Pour 
over  it,  when  done,  a  little  melted  butter  with  a  spoonful  oa 
sugar,  some  lemon  juice,  or  wine;  or  treacle,  for  children. 

109.  Cod  Roe  and  Cod  Liver.—Buj  a  cod's  liver  and  roe^ 
cut  open  the  skin  which  surrounds  it ;  put  the  eggs  in  a  basin, 
pour  water  over  them,  mashing  them  with  your  hand,  to  separate 
them,  throwing  away  the  water ;  add  half  a  pound  of  salt,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper ;  let  them  soak  all  night,  afterwards 
washing  them  well  in  two  or  three  waters,  leaving  about  a  gill 
at  the  bottom ;  then  put  about  two  pounds  of  cod  liver  over  it, 
cut  in  six  or  eight  pieces,  putting  the  stewpan  either  on  a  very 
slow  fire,  or  in  an  oven,  for  one  hour ;  then  take  out  the  liver, 
which  serve  as  usual.  Add  about  a  gill  of  melted  butter  in  the 
roe,  when  it  will  be  ready. 

110.  Or  for  any  one  in  health  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped, 
may  be  added,  or  three  raw  ones  instead,  and  make  a  pudding 
of  it ;  pour  it  in,  steam  it  in  water  till  well  set,  then  turn  it  out, 
and  sauce  over  with  any  fish  sauce  you  like.  The  hard  roe  of 
any  fish  may  be  dressed  like  this,  especially  the  roe  of  sturgeons. 

CARTHUSIAN  OP  MEAT  AND  VEGETABLES. 

Yon  will  perhaps  be  surprised  at  the  name  I  have  given  to  thip 
curious  mixture  of  vegetable  produce,  but  you  will  immediately  per- 
f,Givc  that  I  have  taken  it  from  those  well  known  monks  who  took 
fows  to  partake  of  no  animal  food,  something  like  our  strict  vege- 
tarians of  the  present  day ;  but  those  jolly  old  dogs  in  former  days? 
were  obliged,  at  times,  to  break  their  vow ;  as,  however,  it  could  no^ 
be  done  openly,  they  were  obliged  to  mask  the  object  cooked  in 
covering  of  vegetables,  and  thus  cheated  their  oath  and  tlieir  own 
conscience. 


44  VARIOUS  BI3HES  IN  THE  lEOH  SAUCEPAH, 

Ciirtlmsian,  or  Chartreuse,  in  French  coolvery,  means  any  article,  oj 
food,  such  as  meat,  game,  or  poultry,  so  surrounded  by  vegetables,  tliat 
even  a  vegetarian  would  be  deceived  with  its  appearance,  v/hile  sitting 
at  dinner^  and  would  not  find  out  his  mistake  until  helped  with  soma 
of  the  dishes, 

111.  1st  Lesson.— 1£  in  winter,  cut  crossways,  in  four,  i 
iarge  savoy  cabbage,  or  tv^o  small  ones ;  take  off  a  few  of  the 
outside  green  leaves ;  wash  the  cabbage  well,  then  put  on  im 
fire  either  an  iron  pot,  or  a  three-legged  black  pot ;  put  in  about 
three  quarts  of  water;  v/hen  boiling,  add  your  cab"bage,  boil 
them  for  ten  minutes,  or  a  little  longer,  then  drain  them  in  a 
cullender  or  cloth,  pressing  out  the  water ;  cut  away  the  stalk 
from  each  piece,  then  chop  your  cabbage,  though  not  too  fine, 
letting  it  weigh  about  two  pounds ;  when  thus  prepared,  which 
will  be  our  proportion  of  vegetable  to  one  pound  of  meat ; 
previous  to  chopping  them  upon  the  board,  season  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  that  is,  if  salt  meat  be  used ;  two  ditto  if  the 
meat  be  fresh  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper  at  all  times. 

Suppose  we  select  for  this,  our  first  lesson,  three  middling- 
sized  pigs'  tongues.  You  have  put  them  to  boil  with  your 
cabbage,  then  cut  them  through  lengthways,  then  place  at  the 
bottom  of  your  pan  about  an  inch  deep  of  cabbage,  and  half  an 
inch  round  the  inside  of  the  pan,  placing  your  meat  in  the 
centre,  thus  making  the  meat  invisible  to  the  eye  when  turned 
out  of  the  pot ;  when  filled,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
or  dripping,  two  wineglasses  of  vinegar,  if  English,  or  one,  if 
jPrench,  one  gill  of  water ;  set  it  on  a  brick,  placed  in  the  oven, 
for  two  hours ;  then  open  your  pan,  and  place  over  your  cabbage 
a  tea  saucer ;  press  out  all  the  gravy  in  a  cup,  pass  a  knife  round 
your  pot,  then  put  a  dish  over  the  mouth  inside  downwards, 
turn  the  pot  or  basin  upside  down,  when  your  carthusian  will  turn 
out  like  a  pudding ;  pour  the  gravy  or  bread  crumb  sauce  over, 
and  serve. 

113,  2nd  Zesson.^—The  above  may  be  done  in  pudding. 
basins,  or  in  deep  oval  pie-dishes,  and  either  baked  slowly  as 
above,  or  steamed  as  puddings,  but  as  there  will  be  no  cover  to  - 
it,  piit  over  a  cover  of  pudding-paste  (see  E'o.  319)  $  fix  over  as  for 
pies  or  puddings,  ma,king  several  small  holes  in  tlie  paste,  and 
only  putting  half  the  moisture  in.  When  done,  remove  the  paste, 
which  put  on  the  dish  you  intend  to  serve  it  iii|  press  out  thc» 


TAlklOUS  BISHES  IH  THE   IROB   SAU€EFA>T.  45 

gravy,  turB  i^our  cartliusian  out  on  tlie  paste,  already  laid  on  tlie 
dish;  tlien  proceed  witli  the  gra^vy  as  above  described;  red 
cabbage  is  also  very  good,  but  requires  double  the  quantity  of 
vinegar,  and  more  pepper;  proceed  the  same;  tliey  require 
boiling  in,  water  about  thirty  minutes,  if  at  all  large^  and.  rather 
eld,  as  they  are  at  Christmas.  ,  ^:.-  ^>     j/  ■   '■■Jrjy'^y--       :, 

^c^  ^^14  /^i/  t^    ^f      ^  ^••• 

113.  ^rd  and  General  ie^^o^^.-— Having  given  you  the  base    j^ 

or  foundation  in  the  above  receipts  on  animal  food,  I  vfill  now     '^ 
i\\  a  few  words  describe  the  extraordinary  variations  that  can  be 
made  with  this  favomite  dish  of  the  best  judges  of  good  cheer,     .. 
' — viz.,  the  monastic  fraternity  of  olden  times.  ^ 

Instead  of  the  above,  you  may  use  pig's  feet,  cheek,  pickled 
pork,  bacon,  ham,  liver  of  all  kinds,  previously  fried,  or  partly  so, 
sausages,  black-pudding,  or  salt  beefi,  previously  boiled  and  cut 
in  slices,  or  any  part  of  fresh  meat  previously  roasted,  any 
remains  of  poultry  or  game  may  be  done  the  same  by  cutting 
them  in  slices ;  if,  however,  they  have  not  been  previously  cooked, 
they  will  take  two  hours  instead  of  one.  Pigeons,  partridges,  and 
all  kinds  of  small  birds,  may  be  put  in  rows^  only  they  should 
be  larded  or  stuffed  previously. 

This  will  give  you  an  idea  of  the  various  w^ays  in  which  this 
dish  can  be  made,  as  far  as  animal  food  goes. 

The  following  will,  \>j  omitting  the  meat,  be  applicable  for 
vegetarians. 

\^EGETABLE  PUDDING, 

114.  Mil  and  General  Lesson  for  the  Use  of  the  Vegetarian, 
—-You  must  observe,  Eloise,  that  the  above  receipts  are  ail 
made  with  cabbage  only.  I  have  made  them  so,  because,  while 
travelling  last  winter,  I  found  that  every  cottager  grew  cabbage, 
while  no  other  vegetable  was  to  be  seen  in  his  garden ;  but  now 
that  summer  is  here,  I  will  give  you  the  receipts  in  the  way  the 
monks  used  to  make  them;  and,  mind,  they  were  all  good 
cooks  in  those  days.  They  always  had  a  foundation  of  cabbage 
or  greens,  or  some  kind  of  Brussels  sprouts,  one-  pound  of 
either  of  the  above  done  as  in  the  iirst  receipt  3  tben  they 
added  a  pound  of  either  boiled  carrots,  turnips,  parsnips,  beet- 
roots, artichokes,  potatoes,  leeks,  celery,  or  onions;  boil  the 
pound  of  whatever  you  choose  li'om  the  above  till  tender ;  chop 


45       ESMASKS  ON  THE  FOOD  OF  THE  POOB. 

it  with  your  cabbage ;  season,  and  proceed  as  witli  cabbage  only. 
Sprue-grass,  cut  small,  or  peas,  may  also  be  boiled  and  mixed 
out  not  chopped ;  a  little  sugar  is  an  improvement  to  vegetables,- 
as  it  varies  the  flavour ;  use  any  aromatic  herbs  and  spice  you 
choose,  but  always  in  proportion. 

You  may  also,  for  a  change,  pour  either  a  little  white  or 
brown  sauce  over  (see  sauces),  but  observe  that  the  vegetables 
must  always  be  kept  firm  enough  to  turn  out  as  a  pudding ; 
either  serve  in  a  pan:  or,  to  save  trouble,  turn  the  whole  into 
a  tureen,  or  in  a  large  dish,  that  is,  if  for  a  large  family,  but  the 
proper  way  is  as  first  described.  In  fact,  there  is  no  end  to  the 
Higenuity  which  may  be  displayed  in  the  variation  of  this  dish  j 
and  to  the  cottager,  with  his  sm^all  plot  of  garden-ground, 
wherein  he  can  produce  sufficient  vegetables  for  his  family,  it  is 
one  of  great  economy,  besides  being  exceedingly  conducive  to 
health  at  all  times. 


GENEEAL  IGNOEANCE  OF  THE  POOE  m  COOKING. 

Ox  cheeks  may  be  bought  at  present,  cut  from  the  bone,  and  very 
fresh,  at  about  twopence-lialfpenny  to  threepence  per  pound,  in 
London.  It  is  the  most  gelatinous  food  which  the  ox  produces,  and 
contains  a  large  amount  of  nourishment,  as  I  have  already  mentioned 
to  you.  The  only  drawback  there  is  to  it  is  the  length  of  time  it 
requires  to  cook,  and  the  general  way  in  which  it  is  done,  being  in 
many  cases  prejudicial  to  its  use.  Frequently  on  my  visits  to  the  abodeg 
of  the  poor,  while  in  London  last  winter,  I  have  often  seen  this  article 
of  food  completely  spoiled.  On  one  occasion,  I  asked  an  old  lady  how 
she  cooked  it.  "  Sure  enough,"  said  she,  "  by  fire."  "  But,  my  dear 
woman,"  I  inquired,  "  how  long  do  you  cook  it  ?"  "  Ah  !"  sli@ 
replied,  "  sometimes  as  long  as  an  hour,  and  boiling  like  the  very 
deuce  all  the  time,  till  the  water  will  not  stand  it  any  longer." 
"  And  pray,"  I  asked,  "  what  do  you  do  with  the  water  ?"  "  Faitli, 
there  is  no  water  left,  but  only  black  muck  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot, 
which  I  throw  away,"  was  her  reply. 

Therefore  I  am  always  of  the  same  opinion,  dearest  Eloise,  as 
regards  our  long  taEj:ed  of  scheme  of  opening  a  national  school  to 
teach  the  poor  liow  to  cook  their  food,  and  make  the  most  of  it» 
Some  of  the  money  spent  on  our  new  palace  prisons  would  be  muck 
better  employed  for  this  purpose,  and  would  ultimately  decrease  the 
(parish  rates. 

But  I  am  digressing  from  the  conversation  I  had  with  this  old   • 
dame.     When  I  found  she  was  so  ignorant,  I  asked  her  if  I  should 


Ae2M.A&'KB   ON   THE   FOOD    OF   THE    POOK  47 

come  and  teach  hor  how  to  cook,  properly,  an  ox  cheek.  "  No, 
faith,^^  said  she,  "  I  have  no  money  to  throw  awa}'-,  not  even  enough 
to  buy  another/'  Sangmne  as  I  always  am  upon  my  flivourite 
theme,  I  offered  to  bring  one  with  me,  as  a  present,  the  following 
day,  and  gave  her  sixpence  to  buy  some  sand  to  clean  her  iron  pot, 
which  I  found  done  on  my  arrival  the  following  day;  she  having 
also  purchased  two  pennyworth  of  coals  out  of  the  money.  I  then 
produced  the  ox  cheek,  and  put  it  into  the  pot  vdth  four  quarts  of  cold 
water,  and  four  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  some  leaves  of  celery,  which 
articles  were  given  to  her  by  a  neighbouring  greengrocer.  Her  fire 
was  made  up,  and  the  pot  was  placed  on  it,  until  boiling,  and  then 
removed  to  the  side  of  it,  and  skimmed.  There  I  left  it,  and  went 
1  round  to  pay  my  other  visits. 

At  the  end  of  three  hours  I  returned,  and,  she  having  a  large 
basin  in  the  room,  I  put  some  crusts  of  bread  in  it,  and  poured 
the  liquid  from  the  pot  into  it,  and  the  meat  I  placed  on  a  dish, 
and  sat  down  with  the  old  dame,  serving  the  soup  out  into  cups 
with  a  beer  jug,  having  nothing  better,  and,  to  her  great  surprise, 
cut  the  cheek  easily  with  a  very  bad  knife,  it  being  so  tender.  After 
tasting  it,  and  finding  it  very  good,  she  said  she  would  show 
her  neighbours  how  to  do  it.  I  told  her  that,  if  she  would  do  so, 
I  would  give  her  more  like  receipts,  when  she  exclaimed,  "  Bless 
you,  ma'am,  do ;  I  will  do  them  as  v/ell  as  you,  now  I  have  seen  you 
do  it."  In  anticipation  of  sendiug  them  to  her  the  next  day,  I  v/as 
about  to  retire,  wishing  her  goodbye.  "  Lor%  ma'am,"  said  she, 
"  you  would  not  go  without  taking  a  drop  of  the  *  crature.'  "  To  my 
astonishment,  a  small  bottle  was  brought  out  of  her  pocket,  and  ofi'ered 
to  me.  From  its  strange  smell,  I  was  induced  to  taste  it,  and  I  feel 
confident,  if  it  had  been  analyzed  by  the  "  Lancet,"  it  would  have 
proved  to  be  real  hlue  ruin,  composed,  as  it  was,  of  a  mixture  of 
wtriol,  &c. 

This  opened  to  me  the  secret  of  the  em^aciated  loolcs  of  the  thou- 
sands of  the  inhabitants  of  these  back  alleys,  and  I  could  then  account 
for  the  remainder  of  my  change  out  of  the  sixpence.  I,  however, 
sent  her  the  following  receipts,  of  course  omitting  her  favourite 
seasoning — gin. 

Having  sent  her  the  receipts,  as  promised,  on  reconsideration,  it 
occurred  to  me  that  the  old  lady  might  not  be  able  to  read.  I  was 
not  mistaken,  for  on  calling  upon  her,  I  found  six  elderly  matrons 
and  an  old  man  holding  council  together,  and  trying  to  make  out 
the  writing.  The  latter  was  just  sending  for  his  grandson,  who,  he 
?aid,  was  a  scholar,  having  been  three  months  at  a  Sunday-school. 
My  arrival  set  all  to  rights,  at  the  same  time  it  frightened  three  of  ths 
council  away ;  but  I  begged  the  others  to  stop;  and  hear  the  rccsipts 
read,  which  ^hev  acfordincly  did,  afterwards  givincf  spvei^al  copic?- 


48  THE  GEIDIRON  AND   FBYING-PAH. 

115.  1^^  Zesson.-—Rub  an  ox  cheek  (middle  size,  or  lialfa  large 
one)  witli  four  teaspoonluls  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper ;  put  it  into 
the  iron  pot,  v/ith  four  quarts  of  cold  water ;  set  it  on  the  fire  to 
"boil;  remove  it  then  to  the  side,  and  simmer  gently  iox  three 
hours  after  it  begins  to  boil.  Skim  off  the  fat,  which  will  do  for 
puddings,  and,  at  the  expiration  of  the  time,  nearly  three  quarts 
©f  very  strong  gravy,  in  addition  to  the  meat  properly  done  and 
tender,  will  be  found  in  the  pot.  A  gill  of  colouring  is  an  im- 
provement to  the  look  of  the  broth.  A  head  of  celery,  or  some 
leaves  of  it,  or  onions,  &c.,  may  be  added  in  boiling.  Put  the 
head  on  a  dish,  and  serve  the  soup  separately,  with  bread  in  it. 

116.  2nd  Lesson.-— Or  any  small  quantity  of  mixed  vegetables 
may  be  used.  They  should  all  be  cut  into  dice,  and  not  peeled,  but 
well  cleaned,  with  the  exception  of  the  dried  skin  of  the  onion. 
One  pound  of  rice,  at  the  cost  of  twopence-halfpenny,  when 
added,  is  a  great  improvement ;  or  half-a-pint  of  split  peas,  or 
barley,  or  a  pint  of  white  haricot  beans,  or  a  pint  of  Indian  meal 
soaked  the  over-night,  or  a  little  flour  to  make  the  gravy  or 
broth  thick.  It  may  be  varied  in  several  ways ;  but  the  chief 
point  is,  when  once  boiled,  simmer  slov^ly  till  tender,  which  you 
may  ascertain  by  piercing  it  with  a  fork ;  if  it  sticks  to  it,  it  is 
not  sufficiently  done.  Sheep  and  lamb's  head  may  be  done  the 
same  way,  but  will  only  take  one  quarter  ol  the  time ;  season 
accordingly. 

This  receipt  is  applicable  to  aU  kinds  of  hard  meat. 

THE  GRIDIEOK  AND  FRYINa-PAK. 
The  Mesults  of  their  Hivalry  in  Domestic  Coo'kery, 

Your  favourite  utensil,  the  frying-pan,  Eloise,  is,  without  doubt, 
the  most  useful  of  all  kitchen  implements,  and  like  a  good-natured 
servant,  is  often  imposed  upon,  and  obliged  to  do  all  the  work,  while 
its  companion,  the  gridiron,  is  quietly  reposing  in  the  chimney 
corner. 

The  following  scene  was  witnessed  by  those  two  faithful  servants, 
the  other  afternoon,  in  a  domestic  establishment,  where  the  sly  dog 
-of  a  gridiron  often  laughs  between  its  bars  at  the  overworked  frying- 
mn. 

The  husband,  who  is  employed  by  a  railway  contractor,  and  a  man 
^ho  is  what  the  world  calls  middling  well  ofi",  and  who  has  risen  by 
Biis  own  exa^iiions  and  abilities  from  a  mo?^  humble  position,  arrives 


MEAT  OK  GRIDIROK:  49 

home,  and  asks  liis  wife  wbat  he  can  have  for  dinner,  the  hour  of  her 
dinner,  and  tliat  of  the  cliildren,  having  long  past.  "  What  would 
yon  like  to  have,  my  dear  ?''  w^as  her  question.  "  Anything  you 
have."  "  Let's  see !  why — we  have  nothing,  but  I  can  get  you  a 
mutton  chop,  or  steak."  "  Can  I  have  nothing  else ;  I  am  tired  of 
diops  and  steaks."  "  Why,  my  dear,  what  can  be  better  than  a 
ehop  or  a  steak  ?"  "  Well,  let  me  have  a  steak."  "  You  had  that 
yesterday,  my  dear :  now,  let  me  get  you  a  chop.  I  always  make'  it 
iny  duty  to  study  your  comfort ;  and  as  I  have  been  reading,  not 
iong  since,  a  medical  work  on  diseases  of  the  skin,  written  by  Dr. 
Erasmus  Wilson,  in  which  he  says  that  nothing  is  so  wholesome  as 
a  change  of  food,  since  which  time  I  have  made  a  point  of  varying 
Dur  bill  of  fare,  as  they  call  it  in  that  useful  work."  "  Very  well, 
send  for  two  chops."  In  about  twenty  minutes  the  servant  returns, 
saying  she  could  get  no  chops,  but  has  got  a  nice  piece  of  steak. 
^Yery  well.  That  will  do  as  w^ell,  will  it  not,  my  dear?"  to 
her  husband,  who  is  reading  a  periodical."  "  Yes ;  but  how  long 
will  you  keep  me  here  before  it  is  done  ?"  "  ISTot  a  minute,  my 
love.  Now,  Jane,  do  that  well  on  the  gridiron."  Jane  descends, 
but  quickly  returns,  saying,  *'  Please,  ma'am,  the  fire  is  not  fit 
for  broiling."  "  Well,  fry  it,"  is  her  answer.  The  husband,  who 
hears  it,  exclaims,  "  Drat  the  frying-pan,  it  is  always  so  greasy." 
''^  Then,  my  dear,  how  would  you  like  to  have  it."  "  Not  at  all," 
was  his  reply,  throwing  down  the  paper,  and  exclaiming,  "  Bother  the 
place,  there  is  no  getting  any  victuals  properly  cooked  here.  I  must 
go  to  the  cook-shop  and  have  it."  He  seizes  his  hat,  and  slamming 
the  door,  makes  his  exit  in  a  passion. 

The  mistress  blames  Jane,  and  begins  to  beat  the  child  for  having 
3ipset  the  milk  on  the  toast.  Jane  kicl^s  the  cat,  and  gives  warning. 
The  night  comes.  There  are  no  candles  in  the  house.  Jane  is  sent 
out  for  them,  but  does  not  return  in  proper  time.  The  husband 
arrives,  and  finds  all  in  darkness.  They  quarrel,  and  swear  they 
must  separate  in  order  to  "  live  comfortably  together/'  Jane  comes 
liome,  and  is  ordered  to  pack  up  her  boxes,  in  order  to  be  off  the 
first  thing  in  the  morning,  by  which  time,  however,  their  tempers 
have  had  time  to  cool,  and  Jane  is  accordingly  reinstated  in  her 
former  position. 

Moral  (not  on  fable,  but  on  truth)  :  A  man  disappointed  in  some- 
thing to  eat,  consoles  himself  with  something  to  drink.  If  he  has 
Qo  stimulus  in  w^iolesome  food,  he  will  have  it  in  pernicious  spirit. 
He  is  quarrelsome,  scolds  his  wife,  beats  his  children,  frequents  the 
fem-shop,  and  becomes  what  is  called  a  bad  husband.  It  is  not 
lltogether  his  fault,  the  dinner  was  not  eatable,  and  ho  must  have 
lomething  to  support  him,  which  he  foolishly  finds  in  epiiits  ^  and  thus, 
by  the  want  of  attention  on  the  part  of  tlie  wife,  is  made  what  he  is. 
lu  no  country  in  the  world  do  the  annals  of  police  courts  show  such 


50  MEAT  ON   GRIDIRON. 

scenes  as  are  dally  noticed  in  the  public  journals  of  London,  whlc/? 
the  increase  of  punishment  by  a  modern  law  has  not  yet  succeeded  in 
putting  down. 

Before  proceeding  with  the  following  receipt,  it  is  advisable  to 
read  the  introduction  of  semi-fried  steaks,  and  steaks  in  pan,  page  58, 
as  it  would  be  tautology  to  repeat  it  here. 


IMPORTANT  REMARKS  ON  STEAK  AND  RUMP  STEAK. 

Broiled  Steahs  and  Rump  Stealc. — Previous  to  cooking  a 
steak,  nurse  your  fire ;  it  will  well  repay  your  trouble,  and  also 
remember,  in  the  morning,  that  you  are  obliged  to  dine  that 
very  identical  day,  and  no  doubt  you  decide  upon  having  a 
steak  for  dinner,  which  is  a  very  good  thing,  when  the  meat  is 
good  and  well  cooked,  also  fix  the  hour  you  intend  to  dine,  and 
half  an  hour  previous  stir  up  the  fire,  clear  away  the  ashes^ 
stir  all  dead  cinders  from  the  bottom,  and  in  a  few  minutes  you 
will  have  a  clear  fire,  fit  for  the  use  of  the  gridiron ;  and  every 
article  you  may  submit  to  that  process  of  cookery  stands  a 
chance  of  being  well  done.  I  herewith  forward  you  the  following 
lesson : — 

117.  First  Lesson.— 'Fo^  first  quality  of  steak,  the  meat  ought 
to  be  well  hung,  and  if  cut  nicely  off  the  rump  of  a  Scotch  beast 
will  weigh  from  a  pound  and  a  quarter  to  a  pound  and  a  half, 
that  is,  being  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick ;  if  it  should  be 
cut  rather  thicker  in  one  part  than  another,  beat  it  even  with  a 
chopper;  if  of  the  above  thickness,  it  should  be  placed  about 
five  inches  above  the  fire ;  if  thicker,  six  inches ;  taking  it  as 
an  invariable  rule,  that  the  thicker  the  steak,  the  further  in 
proportion  it  must  be  from  the  fire.  The  extra  piece  of  fat 
rv^hich  accompanies  it  should  be  put  on  a  little  after  the  steak, 
or  it  will  be  too  much  done.  Whilst  doing,  throw  over  some 
pepper  and  salt,  and  turn  it  the  moment  the  fat  begins  to  drop ; 
the  motive  of  constantly  turning  the  steak  is  to  keep  the  gravy 
in.  Never  put  a  fork  into  it  to  turn  it,  but  use  a  pair  of  tongs 
but  if  you  have  not  any,  place  the  fork  in  the  fat  and  turn  it 
When  the  steak  is  done,  it  will  feel  firm  under  the  pressure  Qi 
the  finger. 

•i 


MEAT   ON   GRIDIllOX.  61 

Secoyid  Lesson. — Sometime^  it  is  impossible  to  broil  over  the 
^\Q,  but  easy  to  use  a  double  gridiron,  to  broil  in  front.  In  such 
cases,  tlie  gridiron  should  never  be  opened  until  the  steak  is 
done{  tiien  the  gravy  will  not  be  pressed  out.  If  carefully 
Mended  to,  this  plan  is  as  good  as  the  other,  but  otherwise,  it 
spoils  the  best  of  meat. 

The  time  required  for  a  nice  tender  rump  steak,  three-quarters 
of  an  inch  thick,  weighing  a  pound  and  a  quarter,  over  or  before 
a  nice  clear  fire,  is  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.  If  turned  four 
times  in  that  time,  the  gravy  will  remain  in  it,  and  if  served  imme- 
diately, on  a  hot  dish  (not  too  hot,  to  dry  up  the  gravy),  it  will 
eat  tender  and  juicy,  and  be  fit  for  a  member  of  the  Eump  Steak 
Club. 

Third  Lesson.— -Some  persons  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  dish, 
others  ketchup,  others  sauces  of  various  kinds ;  all  these  should 
be  left  to  the  party  who  partakes  of  it ;  it  is  the  duty  of  the 
cook  to  send  it  up  plainly,  but  properly  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper,  unless  otherwise  ordered.  Every  pound  of  steak  will 
require  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  a  half  of  pepper. 

But  if  required  flavoured  and  seasoned  to  satisfy  a  blase 
appetite,  then  the  following  should  be  adopted. 

118.  Rump  Steah  with  jEscJialot. — Chop  up  one  eschalot 
very  fine,  mix  it  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  of  pepper, 
rub  the  steak  all  over  with  it,  and  press  it  in  with  a  knife ; 
place  it  over  the  fire  as  the  above,  cook  and  serve.  If  not 
required  so  strong,  rub  only  the  gridiron  and  the  dish  with 
eschalot."^' 

Bump  Steah  with  Eschalot  Butter. — Cut  up  two  eschalots 
very  fine,  and  mix  it  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  which  spread 
over  the  under  part  of  the  steak  when  dishing  up. 

Rump  Steah  ivith  Maitre  d' Hotel  Butter.  —  When  your 
steak  is  just  done,  rub  it  over  with  an  ounce  of  prepared  butter 
as  No.  426. 

Devilled  Steah. — Mix  in  a  plate  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  halt 


*  If  eschalot  is  required  to  be  served  up  in  the  dish,  or  on 
separate  plate,  chop  them  up  fine,  as  at  No.  449,  and  serve  t^yo  tea- 
spoonsful  to  eycjry  pound  of  steak,. 


52  h^AT  ON   GRIBlHOir. 

Df  cayenne,  two  of  made  mustard^  place  tlie  skak  on  ttie  firei 
after  tlie  first  turn  spread  half  of  the  mixture  on  it,  and  dredga 
it  with  flour ;  do  the  same  with  the  other  side.  Broil  as  above. 
Ciirry  Towder,  mixed  with  mustard^  or  enrrj  paste  alone, 
can  be  rubbed  over  the  same  way. 

119.  Wakefield  8tealc. — Cut  a  steak  one  inch  thick,  score  it 
on  each  side,  crossv^rays.  Put  into  a  tart  dish  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  one  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
tarragon,  a  tablespoonful  of  Soyer's  relish,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar;  put  the  steak  in  it  for  six  hours;  turn  it  now  and 
then.  This  seasoning  is  called  marinade.  Previous  to  broiling, 
dredge  it  lightly  with  gome  flom%  while  doing,  and  serve  with 
butter  in  very  small  pieces  under  the  steak.  At  Wakefield  they 
sometimes  use  the  WarncMe  sauce. 

Some  raw  potatoes  cut  into  very  thin  slices,  and  nicely  fried, 
served  round  it,  renders  it  a  dish  fit  for  the  greatest  epicure.  This 
dish  proves  that  the  inhabitants  of  Wakefield  have  not  lost  the 
culinary  reputation  they  formerly  possessed,  and  which  they  first 
acquired  some  four  hundred  years  since,  when  the  French  queen 
and  her  suite  came  to  reside  there,  and  allowed  them  to  quarter 
the  ^fleur-de-lis  in  the  arms  of  the  town.  Beef  skirt  and  other 
pieces  may  be  all  done  in  the  same  way,  allowing  time  to  cook 
according  to  the  quality  and  hardness  of  the  pieces  you  dress. 

120.  Mutton  ChojosJ^^ — These  may  all  be  cooked  and  flavoured 
like  the  steaks,  but  in  many  cases  garlic  is  used  instead  of 
eschalot,  when  preferred.  Peel  a  clove  of  garlick,  put  it  on  the 
end  of  a  fork,  and  rub  both  sides  of  the  chop  lightly  with  it. 
Chopped  mushrooms  are  very  good  with  broiled  chops.  Any 
fleshy  part  of  tlio  sheep  may  be  broiled  the  same,  way. 

121.  Mutton  Chop,— In  my  opinion,  two  chops  out  of  a  fine 
South  Down,  well  hung,  cut  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick, 
leaving  half  an  inch  of  fat  round  them,  and  broiled  over  a  clear 
fire  for  ten  minutes,  turned  four  times,  sprinkled  with  salt  and 
pepper,  served  on  a  hot  plate,  one  at  a  time,  wi^h  a  nice  mealy- 
potato,  is  as  good,  as  wholesome,  and  nutritious  a  dinner  as  can 
be  partaken  of.  One  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  half 
of  pepper  to  a  pound  of  chops,  is  a  good  seasoning. 


*  For  descriptiosi  of  chops  §ee  page  55,  Frying-Pan, 


,  SSEAI?  OK  GEIDIROK.  53 

122.  Ptahi  Veal  Chomps  are  broiled  as  above.  A  veal  chop, 
nicely  cut  from  the  leg,  ouglit  to  weigh  one  pound.  I  am  oi 
opinion  that  to  broil  a  veal  chop  by  the  direct  action  of  the  fire  is 
an  act  of  Yandalism,  Of  course,  if  there  is  no  time  to  do  it  other 
ways,  it  must  be  done  so ;  but  that  so  delicate  a  kind  o±  food 
should  be  subject  to  such  fierce  treatment  in  order  to  spoil  it,  is 
what  I  do  not  approve  of.  It  ought  to  be  wrapped  up  in  a 
sheet  of  buttered  paper,  with  pepper  and  salt  on  it.  The  sheet 
of  paper  ought  to  be  large,  thick  foolscap ;  the  chop  laid  on  one 
half,  the  other  brought  over,  and  the  edges  folded  over  so  that  no 
gravy  escapes.  They  should  be  placed  eight  inches  above  the 
fire,  and  broiled  for  at  least  twenty  minutes,  and  served  in  the 
paper  very  hot.  A  little  chopped  mushroom  or  parsley  may  be 
placed  in  the  paper,  and  improves  the  flavour. 

123.  Veal  Cutlet. — A  pound  of  veal  not  more  than  half  an 
inch  thick,  from  the  fillet,  v/ill  make  three  cutlets,  and  should  be 
broiled  with  some  bacon.  The  same  objection  exists  with  this  as 
the  former ;  but  both  veal  and  bacon  wrapped  up  in  paper,  and 
broiled  as  above,  is  very  excellent  j  a  little  chopped  chives, 
eschalots,  o^  onions,  may  be  added. 

124  Porh  Chops. — These  should  be  cut  not  quite  so  thick 
as  mutton,  and  the  skin  left  on.  They  will  take  one  third 
longer  to  do.  Well  rubbed  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  an  onion, 
previous  to  broiling,  is  an  improvement. 

These  can  be  served  with  any  sauce,  as  apple,  tomata,  horse- 
radish, mustard,  sage  and  onion,  &c.  &c. 

125.  Calves'  Heart  should  be  cut  lengthways,  and  the  pieces 
not  thicker  than  half  an  inch ;  broil  with  a  piece  of  fat,  or  bacon, 
for  ten  minutes :  serve  with  a  little  currant  jelly  and  butter  in  the 
dish,  under  the  pieces  of  heart. 

It  is  also  excellent  (see  No.  119)  marinaded  for  a  few  hours, 
and  the  following  may  be  done  any  way  like  steak. 

Ox,  pig's,  lamb,  and  sheep's  heart,  may  be  done  like  it. 

Also  the  livers  of  the  above,  cut  the  same  thickness,  and 
broiled  with  some  bacon,  a  little  melted  butter  with  ketchup  in 
it,  is  a  good  sauce  for  broiled  heart  and  liver.  Observe,  Eloise, 
that  I  shall  be  obliged  to  send  you  many  similar  receipts  to 
fiiese  for  %ing-pan,  but  the  flavour  wiU  be  very  diflerent. 

126.  Lamh  CJiops  should  be  cut  not  more  than  half  an  inch 
ihick,  and  broiled  before  the  ^q  very  close  and  quick }  thej  mX* 


5i  MEAT   ON   QIIIDIKOH. 

take  from  eiglit  to  ten  minutes.  Tlirov/  some  pepper  and  salt 
ovei%  and  serve  very  hot,  with,  fried  parsley  round  them,  if  handy. 
Lamb  chops  might  be  di'essed  in  paper,  the  same  as  veaL 

127.  broiled  Ham. — A  slice  of  ham  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  will  take  seven  or  eight  minutes,  over  a  sharp  fire,  turning 
jt  often. 

Bacon  about  the  same. 

128.  Sausages  should  be  placed  high  above  a  slow  fire,  and 
done  slowly :  they  will  take  ten  minutes ;  beef  sausages,  about 
eight  minutes ;  prick  them  first  with  a  fork,  or  they  will  burst. 

129.  Blade  Puddings. — These  are  often  partaken  of  cold,  after 
having  been  boiled,  but  they  are  best  after  broiling  :  they  should 
be  at  least  eight  inches  above  the  fire,  and  the  skins  pricked,  and 
will  take  fifteen  minutes  doing,  turning  several  times. 

130.  Cold  Meat  Broiled. — The  remains  of  cold  meat  cut  into 
slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
when  hot  through,  rub  with  a  little  butter,  turn  it  often,  and 
serve  with  a  little  ketchup  in  the  dish. 

This  may  be  varied  with  any  sauce,  or  chopped  herbs. 

131.  Broiled  Bones. — When  these  have  a  little  meat  on  them, 
they  should  be  rubbed  over  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little 
butter,  broiled  some  distance  above  or  before  the  fire,  that  they 
may  get  gradually  warm,  and  should  be  served  very  hot,  and 
rather  brown. 

Bi^mains  of  poultry,  game,  SL'Q.,  should  be  done  the  same. 

132.  Devilled  Bone. — The  remains  of  the  rib  of  a  sirloin  of 
beef,  or  the  blade-bone  of  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  the  legs  of 
fowls,  turkeys,  &c.,  should  be  slightly  cut  all  round  with  a 
knife,  and  well  rubbed  with  cayenne  and  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  Chili  vinegar,  or  ketchup,  or  Eelish,  and  broiled  gently 
until  hot  through  and  brown.     Serve  very  hot. 

133.  Broiled  and  Devilled  Toast. — Toast  a  round  of  bread, 
cut  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  mix  in  a  plate  one  ounce  ot 
butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
one  teaspoonful  of  Eelish,  or  Sauce ;  spread  it  over  the  toast, 
and  serve  very  hot.  Broiled  kidneys  or  sausages  may  be  served 
on  it. 

134 .  Broiled  Kid/neys. — Sheep's  kidneys  should  be  cut  in  the  | 
miA^ki  so  as  nearly  to  divide  them,  leaving  the  fat  in  the  middle; 


MEAT  IN  FEYING-PAH.  55 

mn  a  s  ijewer  through  them,  that  they  may  remain  open ;  broil 
gently,  five  minutes  for  a  common  size  is  sufficient.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  rub  a  piece  of  butter  over,  and  serve.  They 
{'?  n  be  served  on  toast,  or  with  any  sauce. 

Lamb's,  pig's,  calves',  and  ox  kidneys,  may  be  done  the  saiiie 
way,  but  the  two  latter  will  take  much  longer,  and  should  be 
better  done.     You  may  also  egg  and  bread-crumb  them, 

135.  Broiled  Fowls,  Pigeons,  Sfc, — These,  if  whole,  should 
be  cut  in  down  the  back,  after  being  drawn  and  well  skewered 
to  keep  them  so,  or  beaten  flat  with  the  chopper.  Season 
well  with  pepper  and  salt ;  well  grease  a  double  gridiron,  and 
place  them  a  sufficient  distance  from  a  moderate  fire ;  turn  often. 
A  fowl,  if  small,  will  take  fi:om  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes ; 
if  large,  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  pigeons  about  ten  minutes. 
Serve  either  plain,  or  with  any  sauce  that  is  liked.  They  may 
be  egged  and  bread  crumbed. 


FKYING-PAN.— INTEODUCTION. 

This  useful  utensil,  which  is  so  much  in  vogue  in  all  parts  of 
the  world,  and  even  for  other  purposes  besides  cookery — for  I 
have  before  me  now  a  letter,  written,  at  the  Ovens'  diggings,  on 
the  back  of  a  frying-pan,  for  want  of  a  table ;  but  in  your  letter  you 
suggest  the  necessity  of  paying  particular  attention  to  it,  as  it  is 
the  utensil  most  in  vogue  in  a  bachelor's  residence.  I  cannot  but 
admire  your  constant  devotion  to  the  bachelors :  you  are  always  in 
fear  that  this  unsociable  class  of  individuals  should  be  uncomfortable. 
For  my  part,  I  do  not  pity  them,  and  -would  not  give  myself  the 
elightest  trouble  to  comfort  them,  especially  after  they  have  passed 
the  first  thirty  springs  of  their  life.  Let  them  get  married,  and 
enjoy  the  troubles,  pleasures,  and  comforts  of  matrimony,  and  have  a 
wife  to  manage  their  home,  and  attend  to  more  manly  pursuits  than 
cooking  their  supper  when  they  get  home  at  night,  because  the  old 
housekeeper  has  gone  to  bed ;  or  lighting  the  fire  when  they  get  up 
m  the  morning,  because  the  old  dame  has  a  slight  touch  of  lumbago 
and  should  he  require  something  substantial  for  })is  breakfast,  and 
want  that  utensil  of  all  work,  the  frying-pan,  finds  it  all  dirt  and 
tishy,  not  having  been  cleaned  since  he  last  dined  at  home. 

No,  my  deal*  Eloise,  I  assure  you  1  do  not  feel  at  all  inclined 
to  add  to  then'  comforts,  though  you  may  do  what  you  like  with  the 
following  receipt^  which  are  equally  as  applicable  to  them,  as  to  the 
iiumble  abode  of  the  married  fraternity. 


56  MEAT  IK   FEYmO-PAN. 

You  will  also  find,  in  tliese  receipts,  tlia,^  the  usnai  complaint  ai 
food  being  greasy  by  frying,  is  totally  remedied,  by  sauteing  the  meat 
in  a  small  quantity  of  fat,  butter,  or  oil,  which  has  attained  a  proper 
degree  of  heat^  instead  of  placing  it  in  cold  fat  and  letting  it  soak 
while  melting. 

I  will,  in  as  few  words  as  possible,  having  my  frying-pan  in  one 
hand  and  a  rough  cloth  in  the  other,  with  which  to  wipe  it  (con- 
sidering that  cleanliness  is  the  first  lesson  in  cookery),  initiate  you 
in  the  art  of  producing  an  innumerable  number  of  dishes,  which  can 
be  made  with  it,  quickly,  economically,  relishing,  and  wholesome.  But 
I  must  first  tell  you,  that  the  word  fry,  in  the  English  language,  is  a 
mistake;  according  to  the  mode  in  which  all  objects  are  cooked 
which  are  called  fried,  it  would  ansv/er  to  the  French  word  saute, 
or  the  old  English  term  frizzle;  but  to  fry  any  object,  it  should  be 
immersed  in  very  hot  fat,  oil,  or  butter,  as  I  have  carefully  detailed  to 
you  in  our  "  Modern  Housewife.^^  To  frizzle,  saute,  or,  as  I  will 
now  designate  it,  semi-fry,  is  to  place  into  the  pan  any  oleaginous 
substance,  so  that,  when  melted,  it  shall  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
by  about  two  lines ;  and,  when  hot,  the  article  to  be  cooked  shall  be 
placed  therein.  To  do  it  to  perfection  requn-es  a  little  attention,  so 
that  the  pan  shall  never  get  too  h6t.  It  should  be  perfectly  clean— 
a  great  deal  depends  on  this. 

I  prefer  the  pan,  for  man}'-  objects,  over  the  gridiron;  that  is,  if 
the  pan  is  properly  used.  As  regards  economy,  it  is  preferable,  securing 
all  the  fat  and  gravy,  which  is  often  lost  when  the  gridiron  is  used. 

All  the  following  receipts  can  be  done  with  this  simple  hatterie  de 
miisine,  equally  as  well  in  the  cottage  as  in  the  palace,  or  in  the 
bachelor's  chamber  as  in  the  rooms  of  the  poor. 

136.  1st  Lesson.  To  Semi-fry  BteaJc. — Having  procured  a 
steak  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  and  weighing  about 
one  pound,  and  two  ounces  of  fat,  place  the  pan  on  the  fire,  with 
one  ounce  of  butter  or  fat ;  let  it  remain  until  the  fat  is  melted, 
and  rather  hot ;  take  hold  of  the  steak  at  one  end  by  a  fork,  and 
dip  it  in  the  pan,  so  that  one  side  is  covered  with  fat^  then 
Turn  lie  other  side  in  it,  and  let  it  remain  for  two  or  three 
mmuies,  according  to  the  heat  of  the  fire ;  then  turn  it :  it  v/ill 
take  about  ten  or  tw^elve  minutes,  and  require  to  be  turned  on 
each  side  three  times,  taking  care  that  the  pan  is  not  too  hot,  or 
it  will  biini  the  gravy,  and  perhaps  the  meat,  and  thus  lose  all 
file  nutriment ;  in  fact,  the  pan  should  never  be  left,  but  care- 
fully watched  i  on  this  depends  the  advantages  of  this  style  and 
mode  of  cookery.  If  the  object  is  not  turned  often,  it  will  be 
fioticed  that  the  gravy  will  come  out  on  the  upper  surfiiee  of  the 
meat,  which,  when  turning  over,  will  go  into  the  pan  and  be 
lost,  instead  of  remaining  in  the  meat.     Seasor.  with  ^  tea- 


MEAT  IK  FEYING-PAIT.  b/ 

spoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  of  pepper  i  then  feel  witli  tlia  fmger 
that  it  is  done,  remove  it  with  a  iork,  inserted  in  the  iat^  and 
serve  very  hot. 

So  much  for  the  first  lesson,  the  details  of  which  must  he 
learnt  as  it  will  then  simplify  every  other  receipt. 

137.  2nd  Lesson.— Rememher  that  the  thickness  is  never  to 
exceed  one  inch,  nor  be  less  than  half  an  inch,  a,nd  to  be  as 
near  as  possible  the  same  thickness  all  over.  A  good  housewife 
%viil  object  to  one  cut  in  any  other  way;  but  if  it  cannot  be 
avoided,  press  it  out  with  the  blade  of  the  knife,  to  give  it  the 
proper  thickness.  When  done,  v/ipe  the  pan  clean,  and  place 
it  on  a  hook  against  the  wall,  with  the  inside  of  the  pan  nearest 
the  wall,  to  prevent  the  dust  getting  in. 

'NcWf  dear  Eloise,  you  will  perhaps  say  that  the  foregoing  lessona 
are  too  long  for  so  simple  a  thing  as  a  steak,  as  everybody  think 
themselves  capable  of  cooking  it  without  tuition,  but  having  now 
given  these  alrections,  I  hope  those  who  fancy  they  can  cook  without 
learning  will  knew  better  for  the  future,  and  pay  a  little  attention 
to  so  important  a  rabject. 

138. — The  above  Jesson  may  be  varied  hj  adding  to  the  pan, 
with  the  reasoning,  a  few  chopped  onions,  or  eschalots,  parsley, 
mushrooms,  pick! es,semi-iTied  at  the  same  time  or  after,  and  poured 
over  the  steak ;  ox  when  the  steak  is  dished  up,  a  little  butter, 
or  chopped  pajsley  and  butter,  or  tv/o  spoonfuls  of  either  Eelish, 
Harvey's,  or  any  other  good  sauce  that  may  be  handy.  Pour 
the  fat  of  the  steak  into  a  basin  for  future  use.  Some  fried 
potatoes  may  be  served  with  it,  or  the  following  additions  made: 
after  the  steak  is  done,  slice  a  quarter  cf  a  pound  of  onions  to 
each  pound  of  steak,  and  a  little  more  fat;  fry  quickly,  and  when 
brown  place  round  the  steak ;  pour  the  gravy  over. 

Some  mushrooms,  if  small,  whole,  if  large,  sliced,  put  in  the 
Jan  and  fried,  are  excellent. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  pickle,  put  into  the  pan  after  the 
steak  is  removed,  fried  a  little,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
liquor  and  two  of  water ;  when  on  the  point  of  boiling  pour  over 
the  steak.  The  same  may  be  done  v/ith  pickled  walnuts  and 
gherkins,  or  two  ounces  of  tavern-keepers'  butter  rubbed  over, 
(see  'No.  426,)  or  half  a  pint  of  oyster  sauce,  or  mussel  sauce,  or 
horseradish  sauce ;  or  a  little  fiour  dredged  over  the  steak,  and  a 
little  water  added  in  the  pan,  when  the  steak  is  done,  and  a  little 
folouring  or  ketchup,  and  then  poured  over  the  steaks 


68  MEAT   IN   FRYING-PAJf. 

These  *^ceipts  can  be  continued  and  multiplied  to  any  extent, 
entirely  depending  on  the  taste  of  the  cook. 

A  steak  may  first  be  dipped  in  flour,  and  well  shook ;  then, 
wlien  you  have  semi-fried  your  meat,  it  will  have  acquired  a 
nice  brown ;  this  may  also  be  applied  to  veal  cutlets,  pork  and 
mutton  chops,  poultry  and  game. 

139.  Another  Tj^^/.-— When  your  steak  is  partly  done, 
dredge  both  sides  over  with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  dish  up,  pov.r 
out  the  fat,  put  a  gill  of  water  in  the  pan;  let  it  simmer  a  fev/ 
minutes, — it  will  make  a  nice  thick  sauce. 

139a.  beefsteak,  with  Semi-fried  JPotatoes. — Eub  and  semi- 
fry  your  steak,  adding  thin  slices  of  potatoes,  letting  them  lie 
jn  the  pan  while  the  steak  is  doing ;  turn  them  as  often  as  you 
ilo  the  steak,  serve  round  with  gravy,  to  make  which  pour  half 
a  gill  of  water  in  the  pan  under  the  steak — the  moisture  of  the 
potatoes  will  cause  some  of  the  gravy  to  come  out  of  the  meat, 
but  it  will  be  found  very  good. 

140.  A  Series  of  Lessons  Jiow  to  Semi  fry  Cho^s  of  all  kinds, 
Ziesson  1. — First  select  your  mutton.  Let  it  not  be  too  fat ;  if  it  is, 
cut  some  off.  Always  observe  tliat  a  mutton  cliop  should  be  one  third 
fat,  and  of  the  same  thickness  throughout.  Have  them  cut  from  the 
loin,  let  them  be  about  an  inch  in  thickness.  Very  little  attention 
will  accomplish  this  important  point;  for  I  feel  convinced,  Eloise,  that 
an  ill-cut  chop  never  can  be  but  ill-cooked ;  you  can  always  equalize 
them  by  beating  them  out  with  a  chopper.  Have  your  frying-pan  very 
clean ;  put  in  an  ounce  of  butter,  or,  if  you  like,  dripping  or  lard ; 
let  it  get  rather  hot.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  smoke,  take  your  chop 
with  a  fork,  by  the  small  end,  and  dip  it  in  the  fat  for  half  a  minute; 
then  turn  it,  let  it  semi-fry  for  about  three  minutes,  season  the  upper- 
most side  with  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  that  quantity 
of  pex^per ;  then  turn  it,  and  serve  the  other  side  the  same  way.  You 
may  then  turn  it  several  times  while  doing,  as  that  equalizes  the 
cooking,  as  well  as  carbonizes  the  meat.  Ten  minutes  will  cook  it  to 
perfection,  and  less^  if  thinner. 

Second  Lesson. — If  the  above  directions  are  properly  attended 
;o,  the  chop  will  present  the  appearance  of  a  rich  brown  colomv 
hiid  the  fat  a  gold  colour,  cutting  extremely  white  and  light,  while 
the  meat  will  look  darkish,  and  give  a  strong  gravy  which  will 
almost  stick  to  the  knife,  instead  of  running  on  the  plate  and  par- 
taking of  a  watery  red  colour,  as  is  the  case  when  a  chop  is  slowly 
and  badly  cooked.  This  last  sort  of  gravy  is  called  by  some  people 
rich,  wh'cli  I  am  sure^  my  dear,  you  will  fuid  to  be  a  great  mistake ^ 


MEAT  IN   FETING-PAIT.  59 

though  the  badly-cooked  chop  will  probably  weigh  more  than  the 
©ther,  from  not  having  lost  so  much  of  its  substance,  yet  it  will  not 
possess  half  the  nutriment  and  flavour  of  a  chop  well  done.  Tlie 
above  quantity  of  seasoning  will  do  for  a  chop  weighing  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound,  and  would,  I  may  safely  say,  suit  the  palate  of 
fifteen  persons  out  of  twenty ;  therefore  I  hope  it  v/ill  diminish  the 
load  of  salt  and  pepper  every  Englishman  piles  on  his  plate,  previous 
to  tasting  the  article  of  food  placed  before  him.  The  cook  ought  to 
fieason  for  the  guest,  not  the  guest  for  the  cook. 

141.  Third  Lesson. — When  you  can  thoroughly  cook  a  cliop 
according  to  the  first  lesson,  it  materially  simplifies  the  second,  which 
is  thus  done : — Get  a  chop  and  cook  it  as  above,  but  to  vary  the 
flavour,  when  half  cooked,  sprinkle  over  it  a  little  chopped  chives,  or 
eschalots,  or  onions,  spice,  or  aromatic  herbs ;  or  v/heii  done,  rub  both 
sides  of  the  chop  lightly  w^ith  a  clove  of  peeled  garlic,  or  a  piece  of 
fresh  or  maltre  d'hotel  butter.  These  remarks  are  applicable  to 
all  kinds  of  semi-fried  meat. 

The  Fourth  Lesson  is  still  m.ore  simplified,  my  dear  Eloise,  namely, 
Gook  your  chop  plainly,  as  before  dli-ected,  eat  it  yourself,  and  let  me 
know  how  you  relished  it. 

Chops  from  the  neck,  called  cutlets,  are  done  in  this  manner.  Pork, 
Teal,  and  ham  chops  require  the  same  style  of  seasoning  and  cooking. 
A  slow  fire  is  preferable  to  a  sharp  one  for  the  above  mentioned  chops, 
which,  when  semi-fried,  will  take  a  gold  colour,  as  above-mentioned. 
You  may  always  ascertain  when  the  chop  is  done  by  pressing  yo7:(r 
finger  on  the  thick  part;  if  the  llesh  is  firm  and  w^ell  set  on  both 
sides,  it  is  done  and  ready  to  serve.  Half  a  pint  of  chopped  jjickled 
red  cabbage  put  in  the  pan  after  the  chop  is  done  and  warmed  through 
will  be  found  very  relishing,  especially  for  pork  cutlets. 

142.  Mutton  Cutlets. — The  chop  from  the  neck  is  the  best  to 
semi-fry;  they  should  be  nicely  cut,  and  the  bone  at  the  thick 
part  removed,  as  it  prevents  the  meat  from  doing ;  then  beat  up 
the  yolk  and  white  of  an  Qgg,  with  a  pinch  of  salt;  have 
ready  some  bread-crumbs,  made  from  stale  bread,  and  sifted, 
(this  may  ah*vays  be   kept  ready  in  a  canister) ;  beat  out  the 

'  cutlets  with  a  small  chopper,  dip  them  or  rub  them  with  a 
brush  with  the  Q'g^,  place  some  of  the  bread-crumbs  on  a  plate, 
i  and  lay  the  cutlet  on  them ;  press  them ;  serve  both  sides  the 
I  game,  and  shake  off  ail  loose  cramhs;  have  the  fiit  in  the 
1  pan  quite  hot,  lay  them  in  it;  when  nicely  browned  on  one 
I  side,  tm'n  them  over,  and  do  the  other  side  the  same ;  take  them 
i  Dut,  lay  them  on  a  cloth,  so  that  no  fiit  remains ;  serve  with  any 
■  made  sauce.     For  bread- crumby  see  No.  452 


60  MEAT  m  FKYma-PAN, 

143.  Yeal  Cutlets  slionld  be  cut  round,  aBont  tlilee  inclies  in 
diameter,  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  done  very  quickly. 

144.  These  may  all  be  ruhhed  previous  to  bread- crumbing, 
with  either  onion  or  eschalot ;  hj  rubbing  them  there  will  bg 
no  perceptible  taste,  but  a  pungent  flavour ;  these  can  be  served 
with  various  made  sauces,  and  stev/ed  spinach,  greens,  peas,  and 
anything,  according  to  taste,  remembering  that  that  which 
pleases  the  eye  will  prove  agreeable  to  the  palate. 

145.  Por/^  CJio^Sf  semi-fried,  without  bread-crumbs,  are  done 
as  the  mutton  chops  ;  they  will  require  more  time,  and  should  be 
served  with  a  mustard  or  sharp  sauce. 

Mutton,  veal,  pork,  and  lamb,  all  look  inviting,  and  are  all 
equally  good^  when  bread- crumbed  and  semi-fried,  as  above. 

146.  1st  Lesson.  Sausages  and  KidMeys,  Semi-fried. — Peel 
and  chop  fine  about  four  small  onions,  put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  the 
frymg-pan,  two  ounces  of  bacon  cut  in  slices,  and  a  tablespoonful 
©f  chopped  onions ;  fry  for  five  minutes,  stirring  it  with  a  spoon ; 
^ut  half  a  pound  of  sausages  in  half  lengthways,  place  them  in 
the  pan,  then  cut  an  ox  kidney  into  thin  slices,  omitting  the 
hard  part ;  put  it  m  the  centre  of  the  pan,  season  with  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper ;  fry  gently 
for  five  minutes,  turning  them.  Take  care  they  are  not  done 
too  much,  or  they  will  be  hard ;  throw  a  teaspoonful  of  flavour 
over  them,  add  one  quartern  of  water;  simmer  two  minutes; 
dish  with  kidneys  in  the  middle  and  sausages  round.  Dripping, 
lard,  or  oil,  may  be  used  instead  of  butter,  and  a  few  small 
mushrooms  is  an  improvement. 

2nd  Lesson.  Kidneys  alone, — Slice  thin  an  ox  kidney,  put 
two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan;  v/hen  hot,  add  two 
ounces  of  bacon,  cut  in  thin  dice,  and  the  kidney ;  fry  for  five 
minutes,  if  over  a  brisk  fire ;  longer,  if  over  a  slow  fire ;  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  moisten  with  half  a  pint  oi 
water,  simmer  a  few  minutes,  stir  round,  and  serve  with  or 
*;ithout  crisp  toasted  bread  round  it:  a  little  lemon  is  an 
improvement. 

?}rd  Lesson.  Mutton  Kidneys,  witli  Ale  Satice.^'^Cut  sii 
kidneys  in  two,  remove  the  outer  skin,  cut  them  into  slices;  put 
two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan ;  when  very  hot,  put  in 
the  kidne;s(S,  and  sti»r  continually  for  about  €ve  minutes ;  sprinkle 


MEAT  IN  FilYmG-]PAK.  61 

over  a  teaspoonial  of  fionr,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and,  i! 
liandy,  a  little  parsley  cliopped  fine ;  moisten  with,  a  little  water 
and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  ale ;  tlins  it  forms  a  tMckish  sance» 
Lemon  is  &n  improvemsnt,  or  wine  in  tlie  place  of  ale,  or 
a  little  vinegar,  if  preferred. 

147.  Calves'  Liver,  Semi-fried. — Cut  tlie  liver  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  the  bacon  the  same,  mix  in  a  plate  a  tablespoonful 
rf  flour,  ODO  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  same  of  pepper,  dip  the 
iiver  into  it ;  have  ready  the  frying-pan,  with  sufiicient  fat  or 
di'ipping,  quite  clear,  as  mucli  as  will  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  a  quarter  of  an  inch ;  when  very  hot  (whicli  try  as  before 
directed  for  fish),  put  in  the  liver  and  bacon ;  the  bacon  will  be 
done  first,  which  remove;  the  liver  must  be  turned  in  five  minutesj= 
when  it  is  done  remove  it  into  a  dish,  and  serve. 

148.  Another  Way. — Take  away  nearly  all  the  fat,  then  put  iij 
the  pan  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onions,  the  same  of  fiour,  stir  till 
brown,  then  add  some  salt  and  pepper,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar, 
and  a  small  teacupful  of  water,  a  little  curry  poAvder  if  handy:  mis 
well  together,  and  pour  over  tbe  liver.  Calves'  Hearts,  as  weil 
as  pig's  and  sheep's,  &c.  &c.,  may  be  done  like  liver,  cut  in 
slices,  with  the  exception,  that  either  some  currant-jelly,  port 
wine,  or  a  little  ale  or  porter,  or  ketchup,  may  be  added  to 
the  sauce ;  it  is  also  good  bread-crumbed. 

149.  Jjarnhs  Fry  is  sometimes  to  be  had  for  a  trifle ;  you 
can  pm'chase  it  from  about  threepence  or  fourpence  per  pomid ; 

-  wash  it  in  cold  water ;  for  every  pound  put  a  quart  of  v/ater ;  put 
them  in  it  for  ten  minutes  to  set ;  take  them  out,  lay  them  on  a 
cloth ;  then  put  in  a  frying-pan  two  ounces  of  butter  or  dripping, 
letting  it  get  hot,  then  dip  ea^cb  piece  of  the  fry  in  the  follow 
ing  mixture,  and  put  in  the  pan,  and  fi:y  gently :  break  an  e^g^ 
beat  it  well,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  which  mix  smiooth,  half 
a  wineglass  of  either  milk  or  water,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  may 
be  put  in  this  delicate  batter.  When  your  fiy  has  obtained  a 
nice  gold  colour,  tm-n  it ;  wlien  done,  season  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  pepper,  to  every  pound  of  fry.  A  few 
thopped  onions  put  in  tlie  pan  witli  the  mest.  is  very  nice^  or  a 
few  mushrooms. 

Pigs'  chitlings,  done  as  above,  will  be  found  very  gooo,  esp@» 
dally  if  fried  wii:b  onions ;  buy  them  ready  cleaned,  then  before 


62  MEAT   IN   FRYING-PAN* 

you  fry  them  let  tliem  simmer  in  a  saucepan,  in  salfc  and  water 
for  thirty  minutes,  or  till  tender  ;  drain  them,  and  fry  as  above. 
Tripe  may  also  be  done  the  same. 

FOWLS. 

150. — The  motive  of  semi-frying  food  is  to  have  it  done  quicldy  j 
therefore,  to  fry  a  whole  fov/1,  or  even  half,  is  useless,  as  it  could  be 
cooked  in  a  different  way  in  the  same  time ;  but  to  semii-fry  a  fowl 
with  the  object  of  having  it  quickly  placed  on  the  table,  in  orcla-  to 
satisfy  a  good,  and  perhaps  fastidious,  appetite,  it  should  be  done  ia  a 
similar  way  to  that  practised  in  Egypt  some  3000  years  since,  end 
of  late  years  for  the  great  Napoleon — that  is,  cooked  in.  oil. 

In  France  this  dish  is  called  "  Poulet  a  la  Marengo."  It  is  relatei 
that  the  great  conqueror,  after  having  gained  that  celebrated  victory 
eat  three  small  chickens  at  one  meal  done  in  this  way,  and  his 
appetite  and  taste  was  so  good,  and  he  approved  of  them  so  highly 
that  he  desired  that  they  might  always  be  served  in  the  same  waj 
during  the  campaign. 

151. — The  fowl  should  be  divided  thus ;  if  just  killed  it  should 
be  plucked  and  drawn  as  quick  as  possible,  or  cooked  whilst  still 
warm ;  it  will  then  be  tender ;  if  it  has  been  long  killed,  the 
joints  and  pieces  should  be  well  beaten  with  a  piece  of  wood,  not 
to  break  the  skin  and  bones,  but  to  loosen  the  sinews.  The  legs 
should  be  first  removed,  then  the  wings,  going  close  up  to  the 
breast ;  then  cut  the  belly  in  two ;  by  this  there  are  eight  pieces. 
They  should  be  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt ;  for  want  of  oil, 
one  ounce  of  either  butter,  fat,  or  dripping  should  be  put  in  the 
pan.  If  a  young  fov/l,  it  will  take  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes ; 
the  pieces  should  be  turr  ed  several  times ;  when  done  serve  plain, 
or  put  into  the  fat  a  glass  of  wine,  some  vinegar,  or  ketclmp ; 
for  want  of  wine  add  a  little  vinegar ;  give  it  a  boil  up  till  half 
reduced ;  season  and  pour  into  the  dish,  and  serve.  A  few  fried 
mushrooms  are  excellent  with  it;  or  six  oysters,  with  their 
liquor,  or  tomata  sauce,  &c. 

If  the  fowl  is  preferred  to  be  done  whole,  then  split  it  down  the 
Dack,  truss  it  the  same  as  for  broiling ;  beat  it  fiat,  put  two  ounces 
of  oil  into  the  pan,  lay  in  the  fowl,  season  it ;  it  must  be  done 
gently,  and  will  take  half  an  hour,  if  young,  but  of  a  good  size ; 
if  rather  an  old  bird,  it  will  take  one  tliii'd  more  than  the  above 
fcime. 

152.  jPigeons^  ivJioUj  should  be  cut  dowD  die  bac^k  the  same  ss 


MEAT   IN   FEYmG-PAH.  OJ 

*o  wl ;  fi'^it  off  the  liead,  the  pinions,  and  feet ;  season  and  irj  with 
>in  ounce  of  oil  or  fat.     They  will  take  ten  minutes* 

153.  Rahhits.—Qvit  them  in  pieces,  remove  all  superfluous 
Dones,  beat  each  piece  flat,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt, 
place  the  pan  on  the  fire  with  two  ounces  of  fat,  put  in  it  two 
onions,  sliced,  and  then  the  rabbit ;  they  will  take  twenty  minutes 
or  more  to  do,  gently ;  remove  the  pieces  of  rabbit ;  have  the 
liver,  heart,  and  brains  chopped  up  with  a  little  parsley,  and  fry 
vv^ith  the  remaining  fat ;  when  done  pour  off  part  of  the  fat ;  add 
a  gill  of  water,  season  it ;  give  it  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the  rabbit. 
A  little  curry  may  be  added,  and  boiled  rice,  served  separate. 

154.  Toultry  of  all  Muds,  Devilled. — These  are  best  made 
by  poultry  previously  cooked.  The  proper  way  is  to  do  them 
vfith  the  gridiron,  but  in  case  the  fire  is  in  that  state  that  they 
cannot  be  broiled,  and  the  everlasting  frying-pan  must  be  made 
use  of,  then  prepare  them  as  already  described  for  broiling. 
Place  in  the  pan  one  ounce  only  of  butter,  and  fry  gently  until 
hot  through.  A  slight  improvement  may  be  made  in  using  the 
frying-pan ;  it  is  to  rub  the  bottom  with  garlic  or  eschalot  before 
placing  the  fat  in,  fiying  some  onions  at  the  same  time.  A 
little  bacon  can  also  be  fried  with  it. 


CURIOUS   EFFECTS   OF   IMAGmATIO'N. 

Here,  Eloise,  I  again  discuss  a  subject  about  which,  some  little 
tims  since,  we  had  an  argument;  but  you  will  observe  that  the  topic 
is  treated  in  quite  a  diflerent  manner,  and  you  must  use  your  own 
discretion  whether  you  will  introduce  ox  liver  or  not.  I  can  only  say 
that  I  and  three  friends  dined  ofl:'  it  yesterday,  and  they  all  declared 
it  excellent.  I  assure  you  I  am  not  jesting,  they  thought  they  were 
eating  calves'  liver,  and  praised  the  way  it  was  cooked. 

Later  in  the  day  I  put  on  a  very  long  face,  and  asked  one  of  them, 
a  cousin  of  mine,  if  he  felt  well,  as  the  cook  had  made  a  great  mistake 
in  preparing  the  dinner  ?  He,  knowing  my  mania  for  experiments . 
turned  very  pale,  and  said,  "  No !  No  V  "  Do  not  be  frightenea, 
for  it  is  nothing  very  bad ;  she  used  ox  liver  instead  of  calves'.''  The  • 
poor  fellow  was  greatly  relieved,  for  he  thought  hunself  poisoned;  but 
still  the  idea  of  having  eaten  of  the  food  which  is  generally  given  to 
that  domesticated  and  homely  animal,  pussy,  made  Mm  uncomfort- 
able all  through  the  evening. 

This  is  thft  ftfTect  of  the  imagination,  as  we  have  sufficient  proof?; 


64  MEAT  IN  FEYIKG-PAH. 

In  China,  France,  and  elsewhere,  that  many  objects  wMcli  we  detest 
are  considered  the  greatest  luxuries, 

A  curious  incident  of  the  force  of  imagination  occurred  some  years 
since  at  a  to-^^n  not  a  hundred  miles  from  Leicester.  A  candidate 
for  the  borough,  as  M.P.,  a  noble  lord,  having  been  unsuccessful,  his 
supporters  proposed  giving  liim  a  dinner  to  console  him  for  his  loss 
he,  however,  could  not  attend,  but  sent  them  a  raised  pie  of  game, 
about  the  size  of  a  small  carriage  wheel,  which  was  partaken  of  by  his 
supporters  with  great  gusto,  A  few  days  after  a  letter  arrived  to 
the  chairman,  as  if  from  the  noble  lord,  stating  that  he  was  glad  they 
liked  the  pie,  as  he  had  now  got  his  revenge  for  their  having  deceived 
him  in  the  election — that  the  pie  was  composed  of  polecats,  dogs, 
rats,  &c.  &c.  This  letter  was  shown  to  the  members  of  the  committee ; 
and  it  soon  got  noised  about,  and  although  four  days  had  elapsed, 
there  was  hardly  a  person  that  liad  partaken  of  it  who  was  not  ill. 
The  noble  lord  having  left  that  part  of  the  country,  it  was  some  days 
before  the  hoax  was  found  out. 

155.  1st  Lesson.  Neio  Style  of  Dressing  Liver  in  Frying ' 
pan.—l  dressed  it  thus :  take  about  two  pounds  of  ox  liver ; 
remove  the  sinew  and  veins,  cut  it  into  long  slices,  half  an  inch 
thick,  put  in  two  ounces  of  dripping  in  pan ;  when  hot  put  in 
three  pieces  at  a  time  of  liver  until  set ;  cut  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  bacon  in  small  dice,  fry  in  fat,  cut  up  the  liver  in  small 
dice,  add  it  to  the  bacon,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
onions,  the  same  of  parsley,  the  same  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  half  of  pepper,  stir  round,  and  then  add  half  a  pint  of  water, 
or  a  little  more  if  the  flour  is  strong,  till  it  forms  a  nice  thickisli 
sauce ;  put  all  into  a  dish,  cover  over  with  bread-crumbs,  put  a 
little  fat  over,  and  place  in  the  oven  or  before  the  fire  for  twenty 
minutes ;  brown  it  over  with  a  hot  shovel,  and  serve.  A  few- 
poached  eggs  put  on  the  top  will  give  it  a  nice  appearance^,  and 
render  it  more  nourishing.    Curry  may  be  used. 

156.  Minced  Heat. — The  remains  of  any  kind  of  cooked  meat 
will  be  found  very  good ;  the  meat  having  been  previously  done 
'will  only  require  mincing.  Cut  in  thin  slices  about  one  pound 
of  meat,  put  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  over  about  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
third  ditto  of  pepper,  one  of  flour,  mix  well,  put  in  your  frying- 
pan,  add  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  drop  of  colouring,  if  handj 
put  on  tEe  fire,  stir  when  it  commences  to  boil,  then  place  it 
en  the  hobj  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes,  and  serve. 

N.E.— This  is  very  plain,  as  you  see,  and  can  be  ipade  in  an^ 


MEAT  m  FEYIKG-PAN.  09 

pan  or  ircn  pot,  but  I  place  it  liere  only  for  tliose  wko  possess  i 
frying-pan. 

You  may  now  vary  tMs  economical  disla  in  twenty  different 
ways ;  prepare  always  your  meat,  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  as 
aLove ;  you  may  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cliox)ped  herbs,  such  as 
onion,  cMves,  or  parsley,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  sbarp  pickles,  or 
made  sauce,  a  little  cayenne,  spices,  wine,  or  vinegar,  may  also  be 
used,  and  served  on  toast  if  approved  of. 

■157.  Minced  Veal.-—  Knj  remains  of  roast  veal  may  be 
quickly  dressed  to  good  advantage,  as  follows,  hj  tlie  aid  of  tke 
frying-pan : — Gut  all  tbe  meat  and  fat  oif  tlie  joint  into  small 
dice ;  calculate  the  amount  of  fat  you  put  with  the  lean,  say  three 
ounces  for  every  pound ;  when  cut  put  a  pound  of  it  on  a  dish, 
add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  two  spoonfuls 
of  flour,  and  a  chopped  onion;  put  in  the  pan  half  a  pint 
of  water  to  boil,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  colouring;  then  put  the 
meat  in,  stir  it,  let  it  simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes,  and 
serve  on  toast ;  poached  eggs  on  it  are  very  good ;  or  put  the 
mince  into  a  tin  pan,  bread-crumb  over,  drop  a  little  butter  or 
dripping  over,  then  put  it  in  the  oven,  or  before  the  fire  to 
brown.  The  mince  may  be  made  vf hite  by  using  milk  instead 
of  water  and  colouring. 

158.  New  Way  of  Mincing  Meat. — Cut  in  small  dice  one 
pound  of  either  raw  beef,  mutton,  pork,  or  veal,  flesh  and  fat  in 
proportion ;  put  in  the  pan  two  ounces  of  butter  or  dripping ; 
when  hot,  add  the  meat,  stir  it  occasionally,  and  season  it  with 
two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  a  little  spice,  half  one  of  pepper. 
When  the  meat  is  just  set,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  half  a 
pint  of  water;  let  it  simmer  twenty  minutes,  or,  if  tough,  a 
little  longer,  adding  a  gill  more  water,  and  serve;  a  little 
eschalot,  chives,  or  onions,  chopped,  may  be  added.  If  veal,  lamb, 
or  pork,  the  sauce  may  be  kept  white,  and  milk  may  be  used ;  if 
beef  or  mutton,  the  sauce  ought  to  be  brov/n,  and  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  colouring  added;  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  a  drop  of 
vinegar,  is  very  good  with  it;  ox  kidneys  may  be  done  the 
sam^e  v/ay.  This  will  make  a  good  curry  by  the  addition  of 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  that  article. 

158  A.  Sim^Mjied  id  ay  of  SasJiing  all  kinds  of  CooJced 
Meat.'-^Qvi  a  pound  of  meat,  except  salted  meat^  previously 


-66  MEAT  IN   FSYrNG-PAIT. 

Eoolced,  into  tliin  slices,  put  it  on  a  dish,  add  to  it  one  teaspoon- 
fol  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  of  salt,  half  a  one  of  pepper,  mixing  all 
k)gether  Vv^ell,  then  put  all  in  the  fiying-pan,  adding  half  a  pint 
^.f  cold  water  ;  set  it  on  the  fire ;  let  it  remain  there  until  it  has 
simmered  ten  minutes;  take  up,  and  serve. 

^nd  Lesson.  Proceed  as  ahove,  hut  vary  flavour  with  either 
of  the  following  ingredients  ;  use  either  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
onions,  eschalot,  parsley,  a  fev/  mushrooms,  pickles,  sauce,  or 
ketchup. 

The  ahove  can  be  done  in  cither  black  pot,  iron  saucepan,  or 
frying-pan. 

159,  All  the  ahove  can  be  made  as  curries,  and  served  with 
rice,  by  first  frying  one  onion,  cut  up  small,  and  half  a  large 
baking-apple,  also  cut  small ;  then  add  the  meat,  give  it  a  fry, 
mix  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  good  curry 
powder,  pour  it  over  the  meat,  give  it  a  simmer  for  ten 
minutes,  and  serve  with  boiled  rice  separate. 

160,  JBuhhle  and  Squealc. — Any  remains  of  salt  beef  or  pork 
may  be  dressed  in  this  old,  but  good  and  economical  fashion. 
Cut  your  meat,  when  cold,  in  thin  slices,  to  the  weight  of  about 
a  pound,  including,  if  possible,  from  two  to  three  ounces  of  fat ; 
then  take  one  or  two  Savoy  cabbages,  accordmg  to  size,  which, 
when  boiled  and  chopped,  ought  to  weigh  about  two  pounds ;  cut 
each  cabbage  in  four,  throw  a  few  of  the  green  outside  leaves  away, 
as  likewise  the  stalk ;  put  about  a  gallon  of  water  in  an  iron  sauce- 
pan; when  boiling  add  your  cabbage,  and  let  it  remain  about 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  tender ;  drain  them  well,  and  chop  tliem 
np  rather  fine ;  then  add  three  ounces  of  either  butter  or  dripping 
in  the  frying-pan,  which  put  on  the  fire ;  when  hot  put  in  your 
slices  of  meat,  which  semi-fry  of  a  nice  brownish  colour,  on 
both  sides;  take  them  out,  put  them  on  a  dish,  keep  them 
warm ;  then  put  the  cabbage  in  the  pan  with  the  fat,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  the  same  quantity  of  pepper ;  stir  round  till  hot 
throughout;  put  on  the  dish,  lay  the  meat  over,  and  serve;  if  nu 
cabbage,  any  green  will  do,  fiist  boiled,  di-ained,  chopped,  and 
fried.  Boiled  carrots  and  turnips,  previously  cooked  and  chopped, 
may  be  added  to  the  cabbage. 

161,  Fritters  of  Meat,  FouUri/j  FisJij  and  Fruits. ---The  foi- 


BISAT   IN   FEYING-PAH.  6* 

lowing  is  tliirty  receipts  in  one : — Put  a  pound  of  the  crumb  oi 
bread  to  soak  in  coid  water,  take  the  same  quantity  of  any  kind 
of  boiled  or  roasted  meat,  a  little  fat,  which  chop  in  dice 
rather  fine,  press  the  water  out  of  the  bread ;  put  in  the  pan 
two  ounces  of  butter,  lard,  or  dripping,  with  two  teaspoonfuls  oi 
chopped  onions,  fry  two  minutes,  add  the  bread,  stir  with  '^ 
wooden  spoon  until  rather  dry,  then  add  the  meat,  season  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  of  pepper,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  if 
handy ;  stir  till  quite  hot ;  then  add  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  mis 
very  quick,  and  pour  on  dish  to  cool. 

Then  roll  it  into  the  shape  of  small  eggs,  then  in  flour, 
egg  them  and  bread-crumb,  fry  (as  'No.  72)  a  nice  yellow  colour; 
^erve  plain,  or  with  any  sharp  or  any  other  sauce  you  fancy. 

162.  Innumerable  are  the  receipts  t^nnt  can  be  made  in  thi5 
way ;  in  fact,  from  everything  that  is  eatable,  and  at  any  season  oi 
the  year, — from  the  remains  of  meat,  poultry,  game,  fish; 
vegetables,  using  the  same  amount  of  seasoning.  Bread  soaked 
in  milk  is  better. 

163.  The  same  can  be  done  with  chopped  dried  fruits,  and 
preserved  fruits,  using  a  quarter  of  a  pound  more  bread ;  fry,  and 
sift  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon  over.  Cream  may  be  used 
for  fruits  or  curds. 

They  may  also  be  fried  in  batter,  like  fritters,  instead  of  bread- 
crumbs. 

There  is  no  end  to  v/hat  may  be  done  with  these  receipts. 
They  may  be  fried,  and  when  cold  put  between  paste,  cut  into 
nice  pieces  of  any  shape,  and  baked.  They  can  be  ornamented, 
and  made  worthy  the  table  of  the  greatest  epicure,  if  the  bread 
be  soaked  in  cream,  and  spirits  or  liquor  introduced  in  them. 

164.  Tripe,  Tiyons  fasldon. — Boil  two  pounds  of  tripe ;  when 
done,  drain  it,  dry  with  a  cloth,  cut  it  in  pieces  about  an  inch 
square,  put  in  the  pan  four  ounces  of  butter,  four  middling-sized 
onions  cut  in  slices,  fry  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  tripe,  stir 
them  every  four  minutes  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put 
in  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  ditto  of  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  mixed  well,  and  it  v/ill  be  ready  for  serving. 

Yermicelli,  boiled  in  the  water  that  the  tripe  has  been 
coiled  in,  makes  good  soup.  Rice  or  bread  is  nice  done  ^vi 
vvay.     T>>5;  a^'^Ution  of  a  teaspoonful  of  curry,  ono  spoonful  o' 


68  MEAT  IK  FRYIKG-PAll. 

fiour^  and  half  a  pint  of  brotli  or  v/ater,  will  make  a   good 
eurry  with  tlie  tripe. 

165.  A  Fried  Toad  m  the  Hole. — Take  a  steak  of  the  size 
Inquired,  not  less  in  thickness  than  what  I  have  before  stated, 
and  partly  fry  on  both  sides ;  have  ready  a  pint  of  second-class 
batter,  as  No.  462;  remove  the  steak  for  a  minute,  add  more  fat 
in  the  pan,  put  in  the  batter  when  it  is  beginning  to  become  as 
thick  as  paste,  place  the  steak  in  the  middle,  raise  the  frying-pan 
a  sufficient  height  from  the  fire  on  a  trivet,  so  as  to  cook  gently ; 
turn  it  over;  or  put  the  pan  in  the  oven;  when  well  set  it  is 
done ;  serve  on  a  dish,  the  bottom  uppermost. 

165  A.  Tripe  Sauted. — Have  the  tripe  abeady  boiled  tender ; 
put  into  the  pan  two  ounces  of  fat,  with  two  onions  in  slices ; 
fry  them ;  v/hen  brown  add  the  tripe,  which  must  be  diy ;  when 
they  get  a  little  brown  add  salt,  pepper,  a  pint  of  second-class 
batter,  'Eo.  462 ;  proceed  as  above. 

The  same  Curried. — Proceed  as  above ;  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  the  curry  powder  instead  of  the  vinegar. 

The  same  with  PicJde. — Proceed  as  above ;  adding  piccalilly, 
or  gherlvins  cut  small. 

166.  The  Memains  of  other  hinds  of  Cold  Moast  Meats 
m2.j  be  done  in  this  way,  and,  when  eggs  are  cheap,  poach  half- 
a-dozen,  which  put  on  the  top. 

167.  The  Memains  of  Fish,  previously  cooked,  are  very  good 
done  in  this  way.  A  piece  of  conger  eel  or  ling,  about  four  inches 
thick,  partly  boiled  in  salt  water  with  onions  and  parsley,  and 
Doned,  will  m^ake  a  very  economical  and  also  a  Lenten  dish. 

168.  Veal  or  Mutton,  cut  into  pieces,  about  two  inches 
square,  and  thin,  may  be  fried  and  added  to  the  batter. 

169.  Beef  Collofs,  Fried. — Take  a  piece  of  steak,  part  and  cut 
thin  into  pieces  of  about  two  inches  square,  let  it  be  free  from 
ginews,  have  the  frying-pan  well  greased,  add  the  pieces  of  meat, 
do  them  quickly,  sprinkle  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  fiour  over 
them  whilst  domg;  and  when  nearly  done  add  any  flavour  you 
like,  either  of  currj,  pickles .  tomato  or  a  little  vinegar.  Serve 
very  hot. 


SOYER'S  BAKING  STEWIKG-PAK,  69 

170.  Veal  Cutlets  for  the  A^ed.— -Cut  one  pound  of  veal  in 
eight  or  ten  pieces ;  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  of 
pepper,  little  chopped  parsley ;  then  take  each  piece  separate, 
and  with  the  back  of  the  knife  beat  them  well  till  nearly  in 
a  pulp ;  give  them  the  shape  of  cutlets  with  a  knife ;  egg  and 
bread-crumb;  beat  them  nice  and  smooth,  put  two  ounces  of 
lard  in  the  frying-pan ;  when  rather  hot,  fry  a  nice  colour ;  serve 
plain,  or  with  sharp  sauce,  No.  420.  These  ma}'-  be  done,  as  a 
general  dish,  by  adding  a  little  fried  bacon  and  chopped  onions 
in  the  frying-pan.     They  are  extremely  tender  and  full  ot  gravy 

Beef,  mutton,  and  lam.b,  may  be  done  the  same  way.  Sausage- 
meat  of  beef  or  pork  may  be  here  introduced,  shaped  and  fried 
the  same. 


iNTRODUCTIO:^'  TO  BAKING  STEW-PAH. 

My  dear  Eloise, — In  some  of  my  former  letters,  I  have  stated  that 
the  principal  art  of  cookery  consists  in  knowing  the  exact  time  each 
object  requires  to  be  subjected  to  the  action  of  the  fire ;  whether  it 
he  direct,  or  by  the  assistance  of  either  roasting,  frying,  baking,  or 
boiling.  Large  quantities  of  food  may  be  treated  in  such  a  manner, 
that  no  more  nutriment  shall  be  obtained  than  by  smaller  quantities  | 
but  to  learn  this  requires  practice  and  attention,  more  than  those  to 
v/hom  we  wish  to  dedicate  these  letters  can  probably  give. 

I  have  been  thinking  in  what  way  we  could  obviate  the  present 
loss,  which  either  ascends  the  chimney  to  disperse  in  thin  air,  or 
pervades  the  apartments  of  the  house  to  the  inconvenience  of  its 
inmates. 

I  am  the  more  particularly  led  to  the  consideration  of  this  subject 
from  having,  in  my  rambles,  entered  a  cottage,  the  other  day,  from 
which  an  odour  proceeded,  as  if  something  more  than  ordinary  cookery 
was  going  on,  when  I  found  a  large  pot  of  a  kind  of  Irish  stew  boiling 
away  on  the  fire,  and  the  fragrance  of  the  vegetabl:3s  and  meat  dis- 
persed over  the  apartment.  Entering  into  conversaUon  with  the 
occupant,  whom  I  found  to  be  the  wife  of  a  carpenter  on  the  adjoining 
estate,  and  who  was  preparing  the  table  for  six  persons  to  dine,  I 
soon  found  she  had  no  mean  opinion  of  her  abilities  in  cooking.  I 
remonstrated  with  her  on  the  waste  she  was  making,  and  at  once 
took  up  a  plate,  and  held  it  over  the  pii .  so  as  to  intercept  the 
steam,  when  it  was  shortly  covered  by  cond  i^i'^,  steam  and  small 
particles  ot  jihrine,  which  I  convinced  her  ^  yixA  be  much  better 
used  in  giving  nutriment  to  her  family  than  ^n  mingling  with  tha 
soot  in  the  chimney. 


70  SurEE'S   BAKING   STEWING-PA2^% 

In  onr  stiperior  kitchens  there  may  be  plenty  of  means  and  utensik 
to  prevent  a  part  of  this  evil ;  but  in  the  cottage,  the  abode  of  the 
labourer,  whose  stock  of  kitchen  utensils  consists  of  an  iron  pot, 
frying-pan,  and  gridiron,  these  kind  of  stews  could  not  be  done  with- 
out great  waste  and  difficulty.  I  have  therefore  invented  a  new  and 
simple  baking  stew-pan,  by  which  all  the  nutriment  and  flavour  of 
the  various  ingredients  placed  in  it  are  preserved.  In  order  that 
you  may  understand  it,  I  will  give  you  a  drawing  and  description 
of  it,  feeling  confident  it  will  be  useful  to  the  million.  (See  appendix 
Jtt  the  end  of  book.) 

It  has,  likewise,  one  great  advantage  over  the  old  method  of 
boiling  or  stewing,  namely,  that  it  gives  hardly  any  trouble  in 
making,  retains  all  the  nutriment,  cooks  in  one-third  less  the  time 
taken  by  the  usual  way,  and  there  is  not  a  part  of  any  beast,  such  as 
mutton,  lamb,  beef,  pork,  veal,  or  fish,  however  tough,  that  may  not 
be  cooked  tender  by  this  pan.  Let  whatever  you  cook  in  it  be  sweety 
you  may,  by  using  this  pan  and  the  following  receipts,  make  delicious 
dishes  of  fish,  flesh,  or  vegetables ;  moreover,  food  prepared  in  this 
way  will  keep  much  longer  than  if  dressed  another  Vv'ay,  and  must 
consequently  facilitate  the  way  of  cooking  for  a  large  family,  as  you 
can  do  enough  food  at  once  to  last  for  several  meals,  which  you  must 
admit  will  save  an  immense  deal  of  time. 

This  modest  pan,  as  you  must  perceive,  will  concentrate  all  the 
nutriment  and  aroma  created  by  any  kind  of  food  placed  in  it ;  and 
tlie  object  I  have  in  putting  a  lock  and  key  on  it,  is  to  prevent  any 
^j3rson  raising  ^he  lid  while  cooking,  as  by  so  doing  the  best  part  of 
the  flavour  womd  immediately  escape. 

It  is  so  constructed  that  it  may  be  hung  over  the  flre,  or  placed  on 
the  liob,  or  steamed  or  boiled  in  a  stev/pan  (as  you  would  a  pudding 
boiled  in  a  basin),  or  in  a  cottage  or  baker's  oven. 

You  must  agree,  my  excellent  friend,  that  I  have  hitherto  done  all 
n  my  power  to  simplify  and  economize  the  food  partaken  of  by  the 
larger  part  of  the  people  of  this  country,  who,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  are 
much  behind  their  continental  neighbours  in  the  art  of  cookery, 
though  possessing  the  best  kind  of  food,  and  certain  I  am  that  huge 
mountains  might  be  erected  with  the  food  daily  and  hourly  wasted, 
even  at  the  doors  of  the  poor.* 

Is  it  possible,  that  in  a  country  where  the  science  of  political 
economy  has  made  such  progress,  that  such  men  as  Jeremy  Bentham 
£iid  others  have  written  volumes  to  benefit  their  fellow  men,  and  vet 


*  ^Miile  on  my  Governmental  mission  through  IrelaiK^^  in  the  yeaf 
of  the  famine,  1847,  the  following  conversation  took  place  between 
Lord  Bessborough,  then  l^ord-Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  and  myself,  after 
in,>  re.t»n-n  fr^im  visiting  the  interior  of  the  country : — 


SOYERS  BAKING  STEWING-PAN.  71 

sjever  have  given  one  word  on  that  science  which  would  materially 

iacrease  the  food  partaken  of  by  all  classes  of  society ! 

Now  that  I  have  explained  to  you  my  new  method  of  cookery,  you 
must  try  the  following  receipts,  and  then  you  will  &nd  my  assertion 
to  be  correct. 

171.  Beef'Stealc  in  Balcing  Tan.  First  'Lesson. — Take  two 
pounds  of  beef  steak,  which  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  walnuts,  but 
only  half  an  inch  thick ;  peel  two  pounds  of  potatoes,  cut  in  slices 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  two  middling- sized  onions  sliced ;  mix 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper. 

Then  lay  five  or  six  slices  of  potatoes  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan, 
iBeason  them,  then  add  some  pieces  of  beef;  season  again,  then 
potatoes  and  onions,  then  beef,  until  the  pan  is  full,  potatoes  on 


"  In  an  interview  granted  by  his  excellency,  his  lordship  asked  me 
i/ 1  could  account  for  the  generahty  of  the  people  being  so  poor  j 
*^hen  I  replied,  *  Easily,  my  lord :  why  they  actually  manure  the 
land  with  gold  to  reap  copper.'  *How  do  you  make  that  out?' 
was  his  excellency's  inquiry.  '  Why,  my  lord,  they  waste  tons  of 
good  fish  on  the  ground  to  grow  a  few  potatoes.'  '  In  your  opinion, 
why  do  they  do  it  ?'  *  Why,  my  lord  ?  Because  they  know  how  ta 
cook  potatoes  to  perfection,  and  are  totally  ignorant  of  the  way  to 
cook  fish.'  *  Well,  I  believe  you  are  right,'  said  his  lordship ;  *  but 
how  could  the  evil  be  remedied  ?'  *  Easily,'  I  replied.  *  I  would 
first  show  them  how  to  cook  their  food,  no  matter  how  simple  such 
food  might  be,  and  prove  to  them  that  the  maize,  or  American 
flour,  now  so  much  m  use,  if  properly  prepared,  would  be  a  blessing 
instead  of  a  curse;  also  the  necessity  of  using  with  their  food 
other  vegetables  besides  potatoes,  as  well  as  instruct  them  in  several 
plain  ways  of  cooking  fish,  which  could  be  had  in  abundance  aU  the 
year  round,  at  a  very  cheap  rate ;  it  would,  at  the  same  time,  give 
employment  on  the  coast  to  thousands  of  indolent  people,  as  well  as 
circulate  an  immense  deal  of  money  in  the  interior  of  the  country 
and  much  improve  the  condition  of  these  poor  wretched  beings  whC 
only  seem  to  have  been  born  to  live  between  poverty  and  starvation. 

"  My  plan  would  be  to  have  public  lecturers  appointed,  whose  duty 
it  should  be  to  go  round  as  often  as  the  agricultural  lecturer,  and 
teach  the  people  how  to  cook  the  food  which  that  person  now  en- 
deavours to  make  them  cultivate* 

"  Until  this  is  done,  this  country  will  never  emerge  out  of  the 
semi-barbarous  state  in  which  it  is  at  present." 

His  lordship  took  a  note  of  the  conversation,  but  sudden  illness 
prevented  my  ideas  being  carried  out. 


72  SOYEU'S  BAKIKG  STEWING-PiJh'. 

the  top,  seasoning  each  time ;  pour  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  wateTj 
lOck  the  lid,  put  in  your  oven,  or  send  to  the  baker's,  for  on ) 
hour  and  a  half;  when  done  shake  the  pot  gently,  that  tLe  gravy 
may  mix  with  the  potatoes  and  onions,  and  form  a  nice  thick 
sauce.     Skirt  or  any  other  part  of  beef  is  excellent  done  thus. 

Observe,  Eloise,  that  this  is  the  plain  foundation  of  every  receipt 
which  I  am  going  to  send  you,  on  that  simple  and  effective  style  of 
cookery.  I  have  omitted  all  seasoning  but  salt  and  pepper ;  if  onions 
are  an  objection  omit  them;  therefore  take  this  as  a  guide  for  all 
kinds  of  meat,  poultry,  and  even  fish,  which  are  very  good  done  -jx 
this  way. 

172.  Another  variety  may  be  made,  which  gives  a  change ; 
this  is,  to  mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour  with  a  little  chopped 
suet,  a  little  salt,  a  gill  of  water,  to  form  a  paste ;  roll  it  out  to 
cover  the  meat,  so  that  it  fits  to  the  sides  of  the  pan;  then  put 
the  cover  on  as  usual,  and  bake.  A  little  dripping  will  do  for 
the  paste. 

You  have  often  reproached  me  of  liking  to  give  varieties  of  season- 
ing; in  the  above  it  is  according  to  your  own  heart;  but  having  done 
so,  let  me  give  one  according  to  my  own  liking,  and  though  you  say 
the  majority  of  people  are  not  fond  of  savoury  cookery,  and  do  not 
lilve  any  predominant  flavour ;  but  I  am  certain  they  only  require  to 
try  it  two  or  three  times,  and  they  will  like  it. 

173. — The  variation  of  seasoning  is  very  slight,  to  the  above 
add  only  two  onions ;  four  will  give  it  a  stronger  flavour,  and 
six  for  those  fond  of  onions.  These  may  be  varied  by  the 
judicious  use  of  the  following  spices — either  two  cloves,  or  one 
blade  of  mace,  or  six  peppercorns,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
ginger.  Or  with  the  herbs,  two  small  bay-leaves,  two  sprigs  of 
fresh  thyme,  or  some  winter  savory,  or  lemon  thyme ;  if  dried, 
a  little  more  should  be  used;  two  teaspoonfuis  of  chopped 
parsley  may  be  employed.  A  little  celery  seed  is  also  very 
good.  All  these  are  to  be  increased  in  proportion  to  the  size  and 
contents  of  the  pan. 

174.  Ze^  of  Beef. — ^Take  two  pounds  of  the  leg — ^that  part 
^hich  is  full  of  sinew — cut  as  above,  and  season  the  same  wa^  ; 
add  a  pint  of  water,  and  give  another  hour  in  the  oven :  meat 
witiiout  bone  is  preferable ;  any  part  of  the  beef  will  dt>  for  w:u3 

receipt. 


SOYER's  baking  STEWING-PAir.  73 

Or,  instead  of  cutting  tlie  leg  or  any  other  part  of  the  beast, 
the  cheek  may  be  put  in  whole,  letting  it  weigh  about  four 
pounds.  This  process  of  cooking  will  make  it  very  palatable 
and  tender;  to  vary  it,  the  meat  may  be  larded,  and  a  bunch  of 
herbs  (No.  451)  added,  also  cloves,  nutmeg,  mace^  or  a  little 
garlic. 

175.  Beef  with  Vegetables, — Peel  two  carrots,  two  turnips, 
two  onions,  cut  in  pieces,  put  some  vegetables  at  the  bottom, 
then  the  meat  in  centre ;  season,  and  cover  over  with  remaining 
vegetables ;  add  a  few  cloves,  a  pint  of  water,  or  half  ale  and 
half  water ;  put  in  slow  oven  for  three  hours,  take  off  the  fat, 
and  serve.  Four  pounds  of  any  inferior  part  of  beef  will  eat 
tender  done  thus. 

176.  Ox  Tail. — Cut  them  at  the  joint,  although  I  prefet 
them  sawed  through  the  piece;  have  ready  some  chopped  oniona 
and  a  little  herbs ;  roll  each  piece  in  flour,  place  them  carefully 
in  the  pan,  with  some  of  the  onions  and  seasoning ;  add  a  pint  of 
water,  bake  three  hours,  take  off  the  fat,  and  serve. 

177.  Ox  Heart  and  Kidneys. — The  heart  does  not  enjoy  a 
very  high  reputation.  I  mean  not  only  with  the  wealthy,  but 
with  the  laborious  part  of  the  population,  in  consequence  of  the 
difficulty  experienced  in  cooking  it  properly.  It  is  thus  generally 
left  on  the  hands  of  the  butcher,  and  consequently  sokl  cheap ; 
but  I  trust  these  receipts  will  occasion  a  change,  and  induce  them 
to  purchase  those  provisions  which  are  now  despised. 

178. — Wash  an  ox  heart  in  several  waters,  cut  it  in  six  pieces 
lengthways,  like  steak,  lay  a  few  slices  of  potatoes  at  tiie  bottom 
of  the  pan,  then  a  few  slices  of  bacon,  then  the  heart,  then  bacon 
again,  and  then  potatoes  over  all ;  a  few  slices  of  beef  suet, 
instead  of  the  bacon,  if  none  handy ;  it  should  be  cut  thin  j 
season  as  you  fill  up,  add  half  a  pint  of  water,  bake  ooe  hoar, 
arid  serve. 

179. — If  a  small  heart,  buy  half  an  ox  kidney,  cut  out  the  hard 
part,  and  divide  it  into  small  pieces,  and  mix  it  with  the  heart ; 
if  yon  can  get  a  cow-heel  already  boiled,  which  is  the  case  in 
Jarge  tk)wi?.s,  it  may  be  added  in  pieces,  omitting  the  bone. 

180.  Calves*,  Shee^^s,  Figs^  or  Ox  Seart,  stewed  w/iQle.-^ 


74  gOYER's  BAKIM   STEWING-PAK. 

Fill  a  heart,  as  for  roasting,  with  stuffing,  IsTo.  456  .  Put  ill  ,^ 
four  quart  pan  a  piece  of  fat  bacon  half  an  inch  thick,  and  on  it 
the  heart,  the  thick  part  downwards;  cut  into  slices  some 
potatoes,  carrots,  turnips,  and  onions,  and  a  piece  of  bacon  cut 
in  dice ;  season  it  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  o! 
pepper :  fill  up  round  the  heart  until  the  pan  is  full,  put  in  a 
pint  of  water,  and  bake  for  two  hours.  A  teaspoonful  of  sugar 
and  three  of  browning  may  be  added. 

181. — Tongues,  brains,  and   liver,   ought  to   be  set  before 

putting  in  the  pot.  The  tongue  should  be  boiled  for  ten  minutes, 

and  then  skinned.  These  may  be  done  in  the  same  way  as  the 
preceding. 

182. — But  supposing  you  have  all  these,  and  you  wish  to 
mix  them  together,  then  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  leaving  out 
the  brain ;  put  them  on  a  dish,  and  for  every  pound  of  meat 
season  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  ditto  of 
pepper,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour ;  then  have  one  onion  and 
half  a  pound  of  potatoes  cut  in  slices  to  each  pound  of  meat,  and 
place  in  the  pot  as  before,  mixing  the  brain  cut  in  pieces ;  add 
half  a  pint  of  water  to  each  pound  of  meat ;  bake  according  to 
size. 

Layers  of  suet  pudding  may  be  used  instead  of  potatoes,  and 
cover  it  with  paste. 

183.  Good  Plain  Family  Irish  Stetv.  —  Take  about  two 
pounds  of  scrag  or  neck  of  mutton ;  divide  it  into  ten  pieces, 
lay  them  in  the  pan ;  cut  eight  large  potatoes  and  four  onions 
in  slices,  season  with  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  pepper,  and 
three  of  salt ;  cover  all  with  water ;  put  it  into  a  slow  oven  for 
two  hours,  then  stir  it  all  up  well,  and  dish  up  in  deep  dishes. 
If  3^ou  add  a  little  more  water  at  the  commencement,  you  can 
take  out  when  half  done,  a  nioe  cup  of  broth. 

T/ie  same  simplijled. — Put  in  a  pan  two  pounds  of  meat 
as  before,  which  lay  at  the  bottom;  cover  then-i  with  eight  whole 
Dnions,  and  these  with  twelve  whole  potatoes ;  season  as  before ; 
cover  over  with  water,  and  send  to  the  oven  for  two  hom's. 

Almost  any  part  of  the  sheep  can  be  used  lor  Irish  stew. 
k  gallon  pan  is  required  for  this  and  the  preceding  receipt. 

>    184.  0:c  Tongue^  FoUed  and  Braized* — I  send  you  thi> 


soyeb's  bakikg  stewing-pa:^.  76' 

$5ceipt  as  a  bonne  bouclie,  it  being  a  dish  wortby  a  first-class 
picnic  or  the  race-course.  Take  a  tongue  from  the  pickle,  and 
^ash  it  clean ;  cut  off  a  part  of  the  rough  pieces  of  the  root, 
put  a  thick  slice  of  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and 
over  that  a  pound  of  lean  beefsteak  or  veal,  and  then  the 
tongue  turned  round  to  fit  the  pan ;  have  a  cow-heel,  parboiled 
and  ready  boned,  place  it  on  the  tongue,  and  cover  it  with 
another  slice  of  bacon,  and  a  slice  of  beef  or  veal;  season  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  pepper,  a  little  powdered  ginger  and  cloves, 
one  bay-leaf,  one  carrot  sliced,  and  two  onions  sliced ;  add  two 
wineglassfuls  of  brandy  or  sherry,  four  of  old  ale,  and  one  quart 
of  water;  cover  well  over,  and  put  in  a  slow  oven  for  three  hours ; 
take  off  the  cover,  and  put  a  piece  of  board  with  a  weight  on  the 
top  until  cold,  then  the  next  day  turn  it  out  of  the  pan,  v/hich 
you  can  do  by  placing  the  pan  in  hot  water.  But  should  you 
wish  to  use  the  tongue  hot  for  dinner,  take  it  out,  and  when 
done  with  it,  put  the  remains  in  and  press,  as  before  described. 
The  vegetables  may  be  also  pressed  in  with  the  meat  or  served 
hot  round  the  tongue. 

The  remains  of  pickled  ox  tongues  are  very  nice,  intermixed 
and  placed  in  a  pan,  and  pressed,  when  they  will  turn  out  like 
collared  head.  A  tongue  boiled  in  plain  water  will  take  about 
two  hours. 

185.  Ox  To7igues,  Fresh  and  'Pickled. — Put  in  the  pan,  as 
above,  add  two  carrots,  four  turnips,  four  cloves,  ten  small 
dumplings,  (see  ISTo.  349,)  fill  the  pan  with  water,  add  either  a 
little  bay -leaf,  thyme,  or  winter  savory;  stew  in  an  oven  for 
three  hours,  trim  and  dish  up  with  vegetables,  and  dumplings 
round,  making  soup  of  the  broth.  For  fresh  ox  tongue,  proceed 
as  above,  adding  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

186.  Veal. — Take  two  pounds  of  the  leg  of  veal,  or  meat  from 
the  shoulder,  or  the  neck  or  breast,  in  fact  any  part,  cut  in  pieces ; 
season  it  with  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  and  a  half  ol 
pepper,  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  cut  in  slices. 
To  vary  the  seasoning,  use  herbs,  (No.  451  ;  It  will  also 
be  very  good  with  some  suet  pudding,  previously  boiled  in  small 
calls,  if  you  omit  either  potatoes  or  stuffing.  The  pieces  of  veal 
should  be  rolled  in  flour ;  add  half  a  pint  of  water,  if  with 
potatoes,  and  more,  if  pudding  or  stuffing ;  bake  one  hour  and 
a  half,  and  serve.     Mushrooms  may  be  added. 


76  soyek's  baking  stewing-pah. 

187.  Purchase  six  calves'  tails,  and  after  having  had  them 
washed,  cut  them  about  two  inches  in  length,  and  cook  them 
as  above,  with  the  addition  of  more  vegetables,  as  carrots 
turnips,  &c.     They  are  excellent  and  nutritious  thus. 

188. — Broion  Ragout  of  Veal. — Take  two  pounds  of  the 
breast,  cut  it  into  rather  small  pieces,  about  the  size  of  an  Qgg^ 
roll  them  well  in  flour,  put  some  fat  in  the  frying-pan,  fry  the 
meat  until  a  nice  brown,  take  it  out,  and  then  fry  four  onions, 
two  turnips  cut  in  large  dice,  and  one  carrot  the  same ;  when 
brown  take  them  out,  put  the  veal  and  vegetables  into  pan,  season 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper,  add  a  pint  of 
water,  to  which  has  been  added  four  teaspoonfuls  of  browning; 
put  into  oven  for  one  hour,  skim  the  fat,  shake  the  pan, 
and  serve.  A  few  herbs  and  a  little  ham  or  bacon  is  an  im- 
provement. Beef,  mutton,  lamb,  and  pork  may  be  done  the 
same  way.     A  teaspoonful  of  sugar  is  an  improvement. 

189.  Fillet  of  Veal  for  an  Extra  Dinner. — A  small  iilkt  of 
veal,  boned  and  stuff  with  No.  456;  tie  it  up  tight,  put  some  fat 
into  a  fryingpan,  about  an  inch  deep ;  put  in  the  fillet,  fry 
gently  until  one  side  is  brown,  and  then  put  in  the  otner  side 
until  brown;  fry  in  the  same  pan  some  large  button  onions 
whole,  some  turnips  and  carrots,  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  eggs ; 
put  the  fillet  into  a  pan,  with  a  piece  of  fat  bacon  at  the 
bottom;  fill  up  round  it  with  the  vegetables;  put  another 
piece  of  bacon  on  the  top,  add  some  seasoning  to  the  vege- 
tables, and  a  pint  of  water ;  put  on  the  cover,  so  that  the 
steam  does  not  escape ;  put  it  into  a  slow  oven,  giving  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  for  each  pound  weight.  When  served  take  out  the 
fillet,  put  the  gravy  into  a  small  basin,  and  skim  off  the  fat ; 
pour  the  gravy  over  the  veal,  and  either  serve  the  vegetables 
round  the  fillet  or  separate.  A  little  browning  is  an  improve- 
ment. 

190.  The  following  is  another  favourite  dish  of  mine : — It  is 
to  lard  a  calf's  liver  with  about  twenty  pieces  of  bacon  (see  JSTo. 
450),  put  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  or  dripping  into  a 
frying  pan,  fry  for  twenty  minutes  until  of  a  nice  brown  colour, 
place  it  in  the  baking  stew-pan,  also  fry  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
tacoTi  cxtk.  in  dioQ.  twenty  large  button  onions,  twenty  pieces  of 


soyek's  baking  stewing-pah.  77 

cariot,  twenty  of  turnip ;  when  a  nice  colour  throw  two  ounces  of 
ilour  over  them,  and  stir ;  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  a  small 
one  of  pepper,  two  of  sugar ;  put  all  this  into  the  pan,  add  three 
pints  of  hot  coloured  water  No.  453  a,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs; 
shake  the  pan  well,  and  place  in  oven  for  two  hours ;  skim  the 
fat  and  serve.  These  preparations  are  for  a  large  sized  liver. 
Pig's,  lamb's,  and  sheep's  liver,  is  excellent  done  thus.  You 
may  place  all  the  above  ingredients  in  the  baking  pan  without 
frying  any;  it  will  be  very  good,  though  not  so  savouiy  in 
flavour. 

191.  Beef-h'la-Mode, — Take  a  piece  of  the  thick  part  of  the 
rump  of  beef,  about  four  pounds,  not  too  fat ;  take  half  a  pound 
of  fat  bacon  and  a  calf's  foot ;  cut  the  bacon  into  pieces  about  two 
inches  long  and  half  an  inch  square,  lard  the  beef  through  with 
the  bacon  (see  No.  450),  place  the  beef  in  the  pan,  and  also  the 
foot,  di\dded  in  two,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  two  middle- 
sized  carrots,  cut  into  squares,  and  twenty  button  onions,  or 
four  or  six  large  ones,  cut  into  slices ;  add  half  a  quartern  of 
brandy,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  ditto  of  pepper,  one  pint  of 
water,  put  the  cover  on  the  pan,  to  prevent  the  steam  escaping, 
and  send  it  to  the  baker's  for  three  hours ;  should  it  be  done 
at  home,  turn  the  pan  so  that  the  heat  is  equal  on  aU  sides ; 
when  done  remove  the  fat  from  the  top,  put  the  beef  in  a  dish, 
with  the  foot  on  each  side,  and  the  carrots  and  onions  round ; 
throw  the  gravy  over;  take  away  the  herbs.  This,  you  may 
perceive,  is  a  most  exquisite  dish,  will  keep  good  many  days  in 
winter,  and  five  or  six  in  summer.     It  is  good  cold. 

192.  The  same  plamer, —Vroceed.  as  above,  adding  half  a 
pint  of  old  ale  instead  of  the  brandy,  or  a  wineglass  of  vinegar 
and  an  ox-foot  instead  of  a  calf's-foot.  Any  piece  of  the  fleshy 
part  of  the  ox  is  good  done  so. 

193.  The  same,  to  he  eaten  cold, — Cut  the  beef  into  square 
pieces,  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each,  cut  ten  pieces  of  lean 
bacon  three  inches  long,  have  a  cowheel  already  boiled  in  about 
two  quarts  of  water,  with  two  onions,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little 
vinegar ;  take  the  cowheel  and  remove  all  the  bones,  and  place  it, 
with  the  meat  and  bacon,  in  the  pan,  with  the  liquor  in  which 
the  heel  was  boiled,  two  carrots  cut  into  small  di^e,  ten  gherkins 
cut  into  slices,  and  ser/i  to  the  oven  for  three  hours  i  take  off  the 


78  soyer's  baking  stewing-pah. 

«over,  and  plaice  a  flat  piece  of  board  on  tlie  top  of  tlie  meat^  with 
a  heavy  weight,  so  as  to  make  it  firm ;  and  when  cold  use  it.  It 
is  very  good  for  breakfast.  To  remove  it  from  the  pan  place  the 
pan  in  hot  water  for  a  few  minutes,  and  turn  it  over ;  it  will 
come  out  easily,  and  cut  like  brawn,  or  it  may  be  cut  from  the  pan. 

194.  JLeg,  "Breast^  Scrag,  and  Sead  of  Lamh. — These  may 
«.ll  be  done  as  follows: — ^Put  it  into  a  gallon  pan,  with  one 
carrot,  two  turnips,  one  leek,  cut  in  thick  slices,  thirty  young 
button  onions  whole,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper, 
cover  with  water,  and  set  it  on  the  fire,  or  in  your  oven  for 
one  hour ;  at  the  end  of  one  hour  put  in  one  pint  of  peas,  a 
little  green  mint,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  set  it  by  the  side 
of  the  fire  or  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour  longer,  and  serve. 
This  is  for  a  leg  or  joint  of  five  pounds  weighty  for  a  larger  one 
take  a  little  longer  time.  A  bunch  of  parsley  and  sweet-herbs 
may  be  added,  but  should  be  removed  when  served.  The 
flavour  is  exquisite,  and  may  be  served  with  vegetable  or  with- 
out, as  liked,  but  then  the  broth  should  be  strained,  and  the 
vegetables  served  separate,  or  the  broth  made  into  spring  or 
other  soups. 

195.  JPorlc. — Any  part,  not  too  fat,  is  exceedingly  good  done 
in  this  way :  Cut  two  pounds  in  slices,  rather  large  and  thin, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  a  few  slices  of  fat,  then 
some  slices  of  potatoes,  then  pork  and  then  potatoes,  until  all  is 
in ;  add  half  a  pint  of  water.    Bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 

196.  Another  way  with  Apple, — Cut  the  pork  in  thick  pieces, 
peel  two  baking  apples,  four  onions,  and  eight  potatoes,  cut  them 
in  slices,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and,  if  liked,  a  little 
powdered  sage,  intermix  the  vegetables,  lay  the  slices  and  the 
vegetables  together,  half  a  pint  of  water,  or  enough  to  cover  it. 
Bake  two  hours  and  serve. 

197.  Another,  simpler, — When  in  a  great  hurry  proceed  thus : 
• — Put  in  a  dish  two  pounds  of  pork  in  slices,  one  onion,  one  pound 
of  potatoes,  also  sliced ;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half  of  pepper, 
one  of  flour  ;  mix  all  well  together,  pnt  it  in  the  pan  with  half  a 
pint  of  water.  Bake  one  hour  and  a  half.  A  little  bone  may 
be  used  with  the  meat. 

198.  Salt  ForJc  loith  P^c?.s.— Take  two  pounds  of  the  bell^ 


SOYEIl*S  BAKING   STEWING-I.AJSJ.  79 

of  pork,  tui  into  large  dice,  wash  half  a  pint  of  split  peas,  put 
tliem  into  a  three-quart  pan,  with  some  pepper,  and  half  a  carrot 
cut  in  small  pieces,  fill  it  up  with  cold  water,  send  it  to  the  oven 
for  two  hours,  stir  up  the  peas  well  hefore  serving.  A  few 
vegetables  may  be  introduced.    Eice  may  be  used  instead  of  peas, 

199.  SaU  JPorh  may  be  used  thus :  Take  a  four-quart  pan, 
cut  up  the  pork  and  some  greens,  remove  the  stalk,  slice  them, 
and  also  add  four  onions  sliced,  four  cloves,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  pepper ;  press  it  well  down ;  put  over  it  a  quarter-  of  a  pound 
of  dripping,  add  a  pint  of  water,  and  stew  ior  three  hoars ;  a 
little  salt  may  be  added  if  the  pork  is  not  salt  enough ;  it  will 
make  an  excellent  soup  if  filled  up  with  water  half  an  hour 
previous  to  using. 

Eed  cabbage  may  also  be  used,  but  first  boiled  for  ten  minutes 
in  plain  water;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  vinegar  and  twelve 
peppercorns,  if  handy. 

200.  Green  Teas  and  Porh. — Put  a  piece  of  salt  pork,  about 
two  pounds,  into  pan,  with  a  quart  of  peas ;  fill  up  with  water, 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  one  of  sugar,  two 
onions ;  bake  for  three  hours.  Salt  beef  is  also  good ;  a  little 
mint  may  be  added.  Three  pints  of  large  peas  alone,  with  a 
little  dripping,  is  good  as  above. 

201.  Cahhage  and  Torlc. — Cut  two  good  Savoy  cabbages 
in  thin  slices,  wash  them,  put  half  in  pan,  then  a  piece  of  pork 
about  two  pounds,  or  either  ham,  bacon,  or  salt  beef;  season  as 
foregoing  receipt,  add  the  remainder  of  the  cabbage;  season 
again ;  add,  if  you  have  it,  four  cloves,  or  pepper  corns,  four 
onions,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  :  do  not  fill  it  with  water  to 
the  brim,  or  it  will  boil  over.  Eed  cabbage  may  be  used  the 
same  way,  only  adding  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  and  if  beef,  two 
ounces  of  dripping. 

202.  Haricot  beans  and  other  pulse  may  be  done  precisely  the 
same  way.  In  fact,  all  dried  pulse  may  be  here  used,  and 
I  cannot  too  strongly  recommend  both  the  dried  haricot  beans 
and  lentils.  I  have  also  latterly  tried  the  dried  green  pea,  well 
soaked  for  twenty  hours,  and  dressed  as  haricots  and  lentils.  1 
find  that  one  pint  absorbs  two  quarts  of  water.  It  makes  an 
Sfcgreeable  as  well  as  economical  food. 


80  SOYER  S  BAKING  STEWIKG-PAIf. 

203.  Beef  and  Torh, — ^emi-  Carthusian  FasJdon. — Sausages^ 
cervelas,  saveloys,  beef  sausages,  knuckles  of  ham,  and  salted 
pig's  feet  and  tongue,  which  are  daily  to  be  obtained  in  Xiondon, 
may  be  dressed  in  this  way :  Buy  two  good  savoys  ^r  white 
cabbages,  cut  them  in  four,  take  out  the  hard  stalk,  and  boil 
them  for  ten  minntes  in  water ;  place  them  in  a  dish  to  drain ; 
cut  the  quarters  ^gain  into  four,  lay  some  at  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  then  a  fe\\  sausages  and  saveloys,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  the  a  fill  up  the  pan;  then  add  two  ounces  of 
dripping  or  suet,  half  a  pint  of  water,  bake  one  hour  and  a  half, 
and  serve  with  cabbage  under,  and  sausages  on  the  top. 

Eed  cabbage  with  saveloys  are  preferable ;  then  add  one  gill 
of  vinegar,  a  few  peppercorns ;  stew  them  longer,  and  serve  as 
above.  I  have  tried  with  raw  cabbage  ;  it  is  not  bad,  and  saves 
time. 

Two  or  three  onions  sliced  may  be  added,  or  one  large  Spanish 
onion. 

This  receipt  will  do  for  pig's  feet,  knuckles  of  ham,  trimmings 
of  ham  or  pork,  a  piece  of  cooked  brisket  of  beef,  which  is  generally 
sold  underdone,  in  which  case  the  cabbage  should  be  done  first. 

Sheeps'  and  pigs'  tongues  are  very  good  done  in  this  way,  and 
they  make  a  cheap  and  wholesome  meal. 

204.  Large  Dutch  Rahhits. — Put  into  a  one  gallon  pan  a 
rabbit,  cut  into  about  eighteen  or  twenty  pieces;  peel  eight 
onions,  twenty  potatoes  cut  into  thin  slices ;  also  half  a  pound 
of  bacon  cut  into  dice,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then 
place  the  meat  and  potatoes  in  layers,  add  nearly  a  pint  of 
water ;  cover  over  and  bake  two  hours  ;  shake  the  pan  round  and 
serve. 

205.  Curry  Rahhits. — Proceed  as  above;  only  add  to  the 
water  two  teaspoonfuls  of  curry  powder;  let  it  well  mix,  or 
season  with  it  at  the  same  time  as  the  other  seasoning. 

The  same  may  be  done  with  rice  instead  of  potatoes,  but  use 
two  quarts  of  water  to  every  pound  of  rice.  One  found  of  good 
rice  ought  to  weigh  five  pounds  when  boiled. 

206.  '.Plain  Rahhit,  Chiclcens,  or  Pigeons  for  Invalids.-^ 
The  rabbit  should  be  cut  into  nice  pieces;  the  chicken  in 
quarters  |  the  pigeons  into  halves  j  place  it  in  a  two-quart  pan,, 


SEMMtOASTING  IN  BAKING  STEWING-PAi^.  81 

With  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  cut  in  dice,  a  Utile  salt  and 
pepper ;  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  if  the 
pan  is  not  quite  full ;  fill  up  with  some  small  pieces  of  veal ;  put 
a  plain  paste  over  all,  No.  317 ;  put  cover  close  over,  and  bake 
one  hour.     Skim  the  fat  off,  and  serve. 

HOW  TO  USE  THE  PAN  FOB  SEMI-ROASTING. 

The  deep  tin  dish  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan  is  to  contain  either 
pudding,  gravy,  or  vegetables,  the  grating  above  is  to  lay  any  meat, 
poultry,  fish,  or  game  on,  you  wish  to  cook  by  this  process. 

207.  Ribs  of  Beef  semi-roasted. — Purchase  two  ribs  of  beef, 
Done  them,  then  season  the  interior  of  the  meat  with  salt  and 
pepper;  roll  the  meat  round  like  a  cheese,  using  a  piece  of 
string  or  a  skewer  to  keep  it  in  that  position ;  make  a  quart  of 
batter,  as  No.  462  i  put  it  in  your  pan,  which  previously  well 
grease ;  put  the  grating  over,  and  lay  your  meat  on  it,  surround- 
ing it  with  potatoes  either  whole  or  cut  -,  allowing  from  twelve 
to  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat,  according  to  the 
state  of  the  oven.  Dish  up  the  beef  with  the  potatoes  round, 
and  serve  the  pudding  in  the  tin,  or  turn  it  out  on  a  dish.  The 
beef  may  be  stuffed  with  stuffing.  No.  456. 

Nothing  is  more  objectionable  to  me  than  to  see  salt  put  on 
the  top  of  a  roast  joint,  and  water  poured  over  to  make  the  gravy. 
The  only  way  to  remedy  this  is  to  put  a  gill  of  boiling  water 
and  a  little  salt  on  the  hot  dish  you  intend  putting  the  meat  on, 
turning  the  joint  in  it  once  during  the  interval  of  a  minute ; 
and,  whilst  carving,  the  juice  from  the  meat  will  mingle  with 
it  and  make  a  good  gravy.  Half  a  teaspoonful  of  colom-ing, 
much  improves  its  appearance.  This  is  applicable  to  all  roasted 
or  semi-roasted  joints. 

Por  large  ribs  of  beef  or  sirloins,  you  can  put  the  salt  on  the 
bones  at  the  back  of  the  joint,  and  pour  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  over ;  not  however  disturbing  the  meat. 

Brown  gravy,  No.  2,  or  broth.  No.  1,  will  be  found  pre- 
ferable to  either  of  the  above. 

208.  Mutton  semi-roasted. — Half  a  leg  of  mutton,  about 
»our  pounds,  potatoes  and  pudding,  if  liked,  under,  will  take 
fcbout  one  hour.     Shoulder  the  same. 

209.  JPorh  semi-roasted. — Place  in  the  bottom  four  apples, 
peeled,  four  onions  sliced,  and  potatoes,  and  over  that  a  joint  of 


3^  SEMI-HOASTING   IN  BAKING   STEWING-PaJT. 

pork,  rubbed  with  salt  and  pepper;  sprinkle  a  little  sage;  add 
aalf  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pan :  bake  for  two  hours. 

For  a  change,  pork  should  be  purchased  the  day  before  using", 
covering  it  all  over  with  salt ;  and  then  scrape  it  well  before  cook- 
ing it,  makes  it  eat  short  and  savoury. 

210.  Lamb  semi-roasted, — Boil  some  spinach  in  salt  and 
water,  drain  it  well,  and  chop  it  up;  pnt  it  in  the  pan,  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper;  put  potatoes  over  the  grating, 
and  then  the  joint  of  iamb ;  small  ribs  or  shoulder  will  take  an 
hour ;  leg,  one  hour  and  thirty  minutes.  Dish  it  up  with  the 
spinach  separate,  the  fat  having  been  removed  from  it.  Greens 
of  any  kind  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner,  particularly  the 
young  leaf  of  the  white  beet,  which  is  an  excellent  substitute  for 
spinach,  or  even  chopped  nettles:  these  are  also  good  under 
pork,  veal,  or  beef,  as  also  is  a  Yorkshire  pudding,  as  at  ribs  of 
beef,  No.  207. 

211.  Poultry  »er/ii'roasted. — Almost  any  kind  of  vegetables, 
such  as  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  potatoes,  celery,  or  mushrooms, 
may  be  put  raw  in  the  pan  and  cooked  under  poultry,  as  well 
as  cabbage,  spinach,  or  greens,  previously  boiled  and  chopped. 

1^^  Lesson. — Pluck,  draw,  and  stuif  a  middle-sized  fowl ;  peel 
and  cut  in  middling-sized  pieces  about  half  a  pound  of  carrots, 
the  same  of  turnips ;  place  them  ia  the  pan  with  half  a  pint  of 
water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  and  half  of  pepper ; 
put  the  grating  over,  placing  the  fowl  on  it,  surrounding  it  with 
peeled  potatoes,  season  a  little  more,  bake  for  an  hour,  and  serve ; 
also  rub  a  little  butter  or  fat  over  the  breast,  or  cover  it  with  a 
few  slices  of  bacon ;  a  little  colouring  may  be  added  to  the  gravy. 

This  receipt  is  applicable  to  all  kinds  of  birds,  game,  or 
poultry,  allowing  about  ten  minutes  baking  to  every  pound  of 
large  poultry  or  game,  and  the  smaller  ones  in  proportion. 

212.  Bahhits,  stuffed,  put  sliced  onions  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  if  liked,  or  boiled  rice,  previously  seasoned,  and  a  bit  of 
butter,  &c.;  put  half  a  pint  of  water;  bake  thirty-five  or  fifty 
minutes,  according  to  size,  and  serve. 

If  any  joint  happens  to  be  too  fat,  it  will  not  do  to  put  a 
Yorkshire  pudding  under,  as  the  fat  would  prevent  it  setting 
but  if  either  greens,  boiled  rice,  or  potatoes,  are  added,  you  will 
be  able  to  press  the  fat  off  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  or  a  plat^ 
or  the  vegetable  presser,  (see  Appendix,)  and  serve  separately. 


«?oter's  baking  STEWING-PA]^.  8S 

To  semi-roast  a  Joint  with  gravy  only. — Put  in  thtr  pan  hall 
a  pint  of  water,  together  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  haU 
that  of  pepper.  When  done,  take  off  the  fat,  add  a  little  colour^ 
ing,  pour  under  the  joint,  and  serve. 


USEFUL  HINTS  ON  THE  PIG. 

Once  or  twice  a  year  every  cottager  ought  to  kill  a  pig.  If  a 
pig  is  washed  and  kept  clean,  it  softens  the  skin  and  allows  it  to 
expand ;  in  fact,  a  pig  thus  treated  comes  much  quicker  round ;  it  is 
proved  that  a  pig  at  fourteen  months,  kept  clean,  is  equal  to  one  at 
eighteen  which  is  not  attended  to.  The  same  day  some  of  the  hver 
may  be  fried,  but  the  rest  can  be  used  in  the  pan  as  follows : — 

213.  Cut  it  into  large  dice;  put  two  ounces  of  fat  or  dripping  into 
frying-pan,  cut  up  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  into  small  dice, 
fry  them  for  five  minutes,  and  then  shake  over  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  put  in  the  liver,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  ditto  of 
pepper,  fry  it  for  five  minutes,  add  a  gill  of  water,  keep  stirring, 
and  put  it  into  pan,  with  a  pound  of  turnips  cut  in  small  dice, 
four  onions  cut  in  four,  and  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  put  into 
a  slow  oven  for  fifty  minutes,  and  then  serve  with  toasted 
sippets  round  the  dish.   A  bunch  of  herbs.  No.  451,  may  be  added. 

Yeal,  sheeps',  lambs',  and  ox  liver,  and  kidneys,  may  all  be 
done  the  same  way ;  less  time  for  lamb  and  more  for  ox ;  any 
other  vegetables  may  be  used,  and  particularly  mushrooms. 

214.  Yeal, — Take  six  pounds  of  veal  usually  used  for  roasting, 
rub  it  with  salt,  put  half  a  pint  of  water  in  the  tin,  and  potatoes 
above,  and  then  the  veal ;  it  will  take  two  hours.  When  it  is 
served,  take  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  and  pour  over 
the  veal,  reserving  the  fat  for  puddings.  A  piece  of  bacon  and 
greens  should  be  boiled  at  home,  or  a  small  piece  of  bacon  may 
be  placed  with  the  potatoes ;  dish  the  veal  with  the  potatoes,  and 
bacon  round  it  or  separate ;  add  a  little  colouring  to  gravy. 

A  piece  of  veal  stuffed  may  be  roasted  thus.  Or,  for  gravy, 
make  melted  butter  No.  410,  with  four  teaspoonfuls  of  Harvey 
^jiuce,  or  ketchup,  and  pour  it  over. 

215.  Toad  in  the  Sole. — No.  1. — May  be  made  in  either  a 
taking-dish,  pie-dish,  or  tin.  Get  about  two  pounds  of  trimmings 
if  either  beef,  mutton,  veal,  or  lamb,  not  ^<^Q  M,  and  cut  them 


84  soyer's  baking  stewing-pah. 

into  pieces,  eacL.  about  the  size  of  a  small  egg ;  season  with  sa4 
and  pepper,  make  about  two  quarts  of  batter,  second  class ; 
grease  the  pan  well,  put  in  the  meat  and  batter,  and  place  in  a 
slow  oven  for  nearly  two  hours,  and  serve  hot. 

Wo,  2,  with  Potatoes. — Proceed  as  before.  When  the  pan  ii 
ready  put  about  two  pounds  of  previously  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in 
slices,  and  bake  as  before. 

Wo,  3,  wit/i  Peas. — Proceed  as  before,  only  adding  about  one 
quart  of  good  green  peas,  previously  boiled;  broad  beans  maybe 
used  the  same  way. 

iVb.  4. — Eemains  of  cooked  meat  may  be  done  the  same  way, 
but  it  will  take  less  time  to  cook. 

JVo.  5.  —  Calves',  or  any  brains,  previously  parboiled  iu 
water,  and  the  skin  removed,  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  few  slices  of  bacon  added  to  the  batter,  make  a  very 
delicate  dish. 

Wo.  6. — Six  larks  or  twelve  sparrows,  with  a  slice  of  bacon 
skewered  round  each,  with  the  batter,  and  put  into  the  oven  foi 
two  hours. 

JVo.  7.— Ox  cheek  and  sheeps'  heads,  previously  cooked  and 
nicely  seasoned,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  chopped  onions 
added  to  the  batter,  is  an  economical  dish.  A  few  slices  of 
cooked  potatoes  may  be  added. 

Wo.  8. — Truss  a  rabbit  for  roasting,  make  a  stuffing  with  the 
liver,  &c.,  chopped  up,  bread-crumbs,  beef-suet,  and  seasoning; 
stuff  the  rabbit ;  lay  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan  a  thick  slice  of 
fat  bacon,  and  over  that  a  slice,  one  inch  thick,  of  beefsteak,  and 
then  the  rabbit,  to  which  add  it  wo  quarts  of  batter ;  place  in  the 
oven  for  two  hours,  and  serve  hot.  This  is  enough  for  a  large 
family.  The  rabbit  may  be  cut  in  pieces;  boiled  cauliflower 
may  be  added. 

Wo.  9. — Eemains  of  previously  cooked  hare  may  be  isne  in 
the  same  way,  with  some  currant-jelly  in  the  stuffing. 

Wo.  10. — A  blade-bone  of  pork,  two  onions,  cut  in  slices,  and 
four  potatoes  sliced,  pepper  and  salt,  and  one  quart  of  batter 
put  over  tbexrv  •  r^lace  in  the  oven  one  hour,  and  serve  hot. 


soyer's  baking  stewing-pan.  85 

No,  11.— Eemains  of  salt  pork,  or  any  roast  meat,  may  all  bfe 
done  in  this  way,  and  varied  according  to  the  taste  of  the 
partaker. 

Eemains  of  any  kind  of  fish  may  also  be  done  thus,  with 
previously  boiled  potatoes. 

216.  Jugged  JSare. — Cut  a  small  hare  into  piece^  about  the 
size  of  eggs,  cut  half  a  pound  of  bacon  into  dice  not  too  small, 

'  lay  both  on  a  dish,  mix  together  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of 
I  pepper,  four  of  flour,  three  of  chopped  onions,  one  of  powdered 
•  thyme  and  bay-leaf,  four  cloves,  and  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg, 
;  grated ;  rub  the  hare  and  bacon  with  these ;  place  them  in  the 
i  pan.  Having  saved  the  blood,  chop  up  the  Kver  and  mix  with 
1  it,  add  to  it  a  wineglass  of  brandy,  or  two  of  port  or  sherry,  or 
1  one  of  vinegar,  or  half  a  pint  of  ale,  stout,  or  porter,  and  a  pint  of 
1  water ;  put  this  in  the  pan,  and  cover  over  with  pudding-paste  !No. 
;  319  ;  put  on  the  cover ;  shake  the  whole  well  to  make  it  mix;  and 
1  bake  for  three  hours,  if  an  old  hare  ;  if  a  young  one  two  hours. 
I  It  is  equally  as  good  cold  as  hot.  K  eaten  hot,  a  little  currant- 
jelly  should  be  served  with  it. 

Some  stuffing  No.  456,  made  into  little  balls,  can  be  added 
with  advantage,  or  even  a  few  suet  balls,  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  colouring ;  mix  with  the  water.  It  can  be  done  plainer,  with 
salt  and  pepp- ^  '•nd  water  only ;  or  twenty  small  onions  and  eight 
potatoes,  cut  i.>i  *  'ices,  may  be  added,  or  even  muslirooms  may  be 
]  put  in. 

217.  Jugged  ISare,  Marinaded. — It  should  be  cut  as  above, 
J  and  put  into  a  bowl,  with  half  water  and  half  vinegar  to  cover 
i  it ;  four  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  one  of  pepper,  four  of  brown 
e  sugar,  two  onions  cut  in  slices,  a  little  thyme,  a  bay-leaf,  cloves, 
J  peppercorns;  turn  them  now  and  then  for  four  days,  and  cook  as 
8  above,  with  the  marinade  in. 

218.  Sow  to  cook  all  kinds  of  Fish  in  Balcing  ^tew-pan, 
•—Take  six  pounds  of  any  fish,  cut  it  crossways,  two  inches 
1  thick,  put  them  in  the  pan,  with  salt,  pepper,  chopped  onions ;  fill 
i  it  up ;  well  intermix  the  seasoning ;  when  full,  put  in  a  basin  four 
(Dunces  of  flour,  which  mix  with  a  quart  of  water,  which  pour 

!  Dver,  shake  the  pot,  well  cover  it,  bake  two  hours  in  rather  a  hot 
I  Qven ;  seasoning  to  be  four  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper, 
1 '  Iwo  onions,  and  chopped  parsley ;  onions  may  be  omitted,  but  use 
j^  !^;'W  a^ud  mixed  spice. 


86  soyee's  baking  stewing-pan. 

Halibut,  hake,  ling, 'conger,  cod,  pike,  carp,  tencK,  perch,  and 
piper  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

Eice  may  be  added  in  the  following  way : — A  pound  of  pre- 
viously boiled  rice,  two  quarts  of  milk,  a  little  sugar  and  salt,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  put  into  the  pan  with 
the  fish. 

The  addition  of  a  few  spoonfuls  of  fish  sauce  will  greatly  vary 
this  dish.  When  done  serve,  without  breaking  the  piece,  if 
possible. 

219.  Pieces  of  Fish.-^Yor  a  two-quart  pan,  cut  four  mackerel 
in  three  pieces  each,  which  roll  in  flour,  place  them  in  rows  in 
the  pan,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  a  half  pepper,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  chopped  onions ;  fennel  or  parsley  may  be  added  ;  put  in  two 
gills  of  water,  place  cover  over,  bake  one  hour  in  a  hot  oven,  and 
serve,  having  first  taken  off  the  oil  from  the  top. 

220.  To  JPicHe  Mac  Jeer  el  and  JSerrings  in  the  BaJcing' 
pan. — When  these  fish  are  plentiful  they  may  be  done  as 
follows,  and  will  be  found  to  keep  and  eat  admirably  well : — 

Cut  the  mackerel  into  three  pieces,  enough  to  fill  the  one- 
gallon  pan,  lay  some  at  the  bottom  and  season,  and  continue 
thus  until  full ;  the  seasoning  should  be  four  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
two  of  pepper,  ten  peppercorns,  four  onions  sliced,  a  handful  of 
parsley,  chopped ;  add  over  all  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  a  pint  of 
water ;  place  the  cover  over,  and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours  j 
some  sweet  herbs  or  a  bay -leaf  may  be  added. 

221.  Herrings,  pilchards,  and  sprats  can  be  done  as  above, 
only  a  little  variation  to  the  seasoning  and  the  time  of  cooking, 
according  to  the  size ;  when  quite  cold  pour  some  oil  or  lard  on 
the  top ;  put  the  cover  on,  and  keep  out  the  air  as  much  as  possible, 
and  they  will  keep  a  long  time. 

222.  Halibut,  hake,  ling,  conger  eel,  plaice,  gurnet,  codlings, 
sturgeons,  and  haddock,  may  all  be  pickled  as  above.  Cut 
halibut  one  inch  thick  and  three  inches  in  length ;  place  thens 
at  the  bottom  of  the  pan ;  season  over  as  before,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  ginger  and  sweet  herbs. 

223.  Balced  JEels. — Cut  several  eels  in  pieces  of  three  inchee 
long,  roll  them  in  fii>i^,pat  them  in  the  two-quart  pan,  season  with 


^OYER'S   BAKIXa   STEWIKG-PAN.  o' 

Dalt,  pepper,  cliopped  onions,  a  little  tliyiiie ;  continue  until  full, 
add  a  glass  of  slierry,  half  a  pint  of  water,  cover  over  with  some 
crust,  either  pie  or  pudding,  put  on  the  lid,  and  bake  one  hour. 
Seasoning,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half  of  pepper,  and  two 
of  chopped  onions.     Take  the  oil  off,  and  serve. 

224.  A  Piece  of  Beef  stewed  in  'Baking  P6]{;^.— Get  three 
wing  ribs  of  beef,  bone  them,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  on 
each  side ;  to  vary  the  flavour,  chopped  parsley  and  a  little  spice 
may  b®  added,  or  even  chopped  onions ;  roll  it  round,  and  fasten 
it  with  string ;  rub  more  salt  on  it,  and  place  it  in  the  pan ; 
send  it  to  the  baker's ;  four  pounds  will  take  one  hour.  This 
is  the  best  part  to  bone,  but  most  other  pieces  may  be  used. 
Stuff  by  making  an  incision  in  the  lean  part,  and  binding  it 
up  with  string. 

225.— If  you  wish  a  Yorkshire  pudding  and  potatoes  to  be 
baked  at  the  same  time,  they  may  be  placed  in  it,  and  when  it 
comes  home  all  will  be  found  excellent.  Instead  of  the  gratings 
in  the  pan,  it  may  be  divided  in  two,  one  for  pudding  and  thfe 
other  for  potatoes. 

All  joints  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

226.  To  Boil  Meat  in  Pan.— Spice  Beef^-Tske  four  pouni 
of  the  thick  ribs  of  beef,  or  any  part,  put  in  the  pan,  with  a  pint 
of  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  two  of  salt,  two  bayleaves, 
two  eschalots,  or  a  little  garlic ;  stew  three  hours,  either  in  oven 
or  on  the  fire,  keeping  the  cover  well  closed ;  half  an  hour  before 
being  done  add  a  teacupful  of  the  raspings  of  bread,  half  a  pint 
l>f  vinegar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  simmer,  dish  up,  and  sauce 
over. 

227.  Salt  Meat— To  plain-boil  this  in  the  oven,  which  can  be 
done  when  no  fire  is  required  at  home,  put  six  pounds  of  salC 
beef  into  a  six-quart  pan,  with  four  whole  parsnips,  two  large 
carrots,  and  six  dumplings;  send  them  to  the  oven  for  two 
hours ;  dish  up  the  meat  with  the  vegetables,  and  dumplings 
'•ound.  The  liquor  can  be  saved  and  made  into  soup;  tha 
Vegetables  can  be  cut  in  two. 

All  kinds  of  salt  meat  can  be  done  the  same.  If  the  broth 
be  too  salt  add  some  v^rater,  and  use  for  pe^-soup 

a 


SB  ON   EOASTIKO. 


ON  ROASTma 


My  beab  Eloiss, — My  last  letter  you  must  have  misunderstood. 
1  did  not  mean  that  roasting  before  the  fire  should  he  entirely  done  away 
with,  but  that,  on  the  score  of  economy,  it  should  not  be  practised  in 
the  cottage,  but  that  my  new  plan  of  semi-roasting  should  be  followed. 
I  was  the  more  particularly  led  to  these  remarks,  from  having,  last 
Sunday,  immediately  after  church,  visited  several  colliers'  cottages 
belonging  to  a  Mr.  Pope,  close  to  this  place.  My  m.otive  for  doing  so 
was  to  see  the  economy  of  the  cottage,  as  well  as  the  kind  of  food 
they  had  for  dinner.  The  first  I  went  into  had  a  piece  of  the  belly  or 
flap  of  beef,  just  taken  down  from  a  dangle,  having  been  roasted.  It 
was  lying  in  the  dripping  pan,  and  v/as  a  great  deal  over  done ;  in 
fact,  dried.  ISToticing,  in  the  com'se  of  conversation,  that  the  fire 
was  spoiling  it  still  more,  I  took  a  plate  from  the  table,  and  placed  it 
against  it,  so  that  it  should  not  burn.  The  old  lady  noticed  my  pro- 
ceeding, and  asked  me  if  I  was  going  to  have  a  bit  of  dinner  with 
them  ?  "  ISTo,  thank  you,  my  dear  madam,^'  replied  I.  "  Then  let 
me  take  av/ay  the  plate,  as  it  will  spoil  our  dinner .'*  "  How  do 
vou  make  that  out  ?"  I  aslied.  '*  Well,  the  fat  is  not  yet  half 
out  of  the  meat,  and  my  Thomas  will  not  eat  fat,  unless  it  is 
dripping  in  the  crust  of  pies  or  puddings.*'  I  then  perceived  that  the 
meat  was,  in  their  estimation,  a  second  consideration,  and  that  they 
paid  the  price  of  beef  for  the  fat,  paying  eightpence  per  pound  for  the 
meat,  when  they  could  get  the  fat  at  livepence.  There  was  scarcely 
any  nutriment  left  in  the  meat — that  which  weighed  five  pounds 
before  roasting,  weighing  hardly  three  pounds  when  done.  There 
were  seven  to  dine  off  it — the  grandmother,  the  two  parents,  and 
four  children.  There  was,  besides,  a  few  potatoes  galloping  on  the 
fire — no  other  vegetable,  and  no  puddings  or  sweets  for  the  children, 
but  excellent  home-made  bread,  and  not  bad  small  beer.  You  may 
now  perceive  that  some  little  improvement  in  this  style  of  cookery 
would  be  an  immense  saving  to  these  cottagers,  and  out  of  the  three 
shillings  and  fourpence  they  paid  for  the  beef,  if  done  in  the  pan, 
with  a  pudding  and  potatoes  under,  and  the  meat  not  quite  so  fat, 
they  would  have  got  a  good  dinner  and  plenty  for  the  next  day, 
either  hot  or  cold.  If  they  wanted  dripping,  they  could  get  fat 
et  four  or  fivepence,  instead  of  eightpence,  and  prepare  it  as  Noi 
464c.     It  will  keep  for  a  long  time,  without  turning  sour. 

I  visited,  immediately  after,  several  other  of  the  cottages,  inwhick 
I  found  steaks  cooked  dry,  indeed,  some  half  bur'nt,  chumps  of  mutton 
lialf  done,  hJC  legs  of  mutton  neither  boiled  or  baked ;  in  one  a 
eheep's  head  baked,  and  very  nicely  done,  with  potatoes  round  it,  which 
was  very  inviting ;  there  was  also  suet  dumplings  fo^  the  chiidi'cn,. 


ON   ROASTI^Tlif.  89 

witli  treacle  over.  This  cottage  was  cleaner  tlian  any  of  the  others, 
and  the  children  were  neatly  di-essed,  and  about  to  change  their 
costume,  in  order  to  do  full  justice  to  the  treacle  dumplings.  In 
giving  those  rosy-cheeked  urchins  a  few  pence,  I  retired  much  grati- 
fied by  my  visit  to  these  antediluvian  workmen,  w\^  pass  one-third 
Df  their  life  in  the  bowels  of  the  earth. 

You  will  perceive  from  what  I  have  said,  that  to  the  artisan, 
labourer,  and  even  the  small  tradesman,  the  old  mode  of  roasting, 
which  comes  to  us  from  Homeric  ages  and  primitive  times,  is  an  extra- 
vagant and  wasteful  mode  of  cooking,  and  the  sooner  it  Is  reformed 
the  better.  Though  it  is  preferable  to  meat  done  in  a  baker's  oven, 
if  well  attended  to. 

But  first  let  me  add  one  more  remark  on  the  experience  of  that 
day.  Eeturning  to  the  Normanton  Hotel  to  dinner,  we  had  a  beau- 
tiful dish  of  greens;  and  what  do  you  think  those  greens  were? 
Green  young  nettles,  which  I  had  asked  the  gardener  to  gather  for 
me  the  day  previous,  and  in  less  than  half  an  hour  we  had  a  basket 
full.  I  picked  them  with  gloves,  but  he  made  a  grasp  at  a  large 
quantity,  and  I  found  that  they  did  not  prick  him.  He  got  them  as 
fast  as  a  monkey  could  get  chestnuts  out  of  hot  cinders.  The  cook 
dressed  them,  according  to  my  directions,  exactly  like  spinach,  and 
most  who  ate  of  them  thought  they  were  spinach,  only  rather  too  hot 
of  pepper,  which  is  their  peculiar  nature. 

I  found  that  they  are  known  in  this  part  of  the  country  as  being 
good  and  wholesome  in  the  spring ;  but  because  the  people  can  have 
them  for  nothing,  they  will  not  partake  of  them ;  like  the  water? 
cresses,  that  rot  in  every  clear  stream  in  the  neighbourhood.  I  intend 
to  make  another  trial  or  so  on  the  nettles,  which  I  will  forward  to  you. 

HOW  TO  KOAST. 

Having-,  thus  far,  given  you  some  of  my  experience  as  regards 
roasting,  I  will,  in  as  few  words  as  possible,  describe  the  simple  plan 
of  roasting  before  the  fire,  which,  I  must  again  repeat,  is  far  from 
being  economical.  The  artisan  requires  as  much  nourishment  as 
possible,  and  should  not  pay  extravagantly  for  fancy  joints,  or  those 
called  the  best,  because  most  in  vogue  for  roasting.  Let  the  wealthy 
pay  for  their  taste,  as  they  do  for  their  Raphaels,  Rubens,  and 
Murillos :  it  is  no  reason,  because  they  do  so,  that  a  labom^ing  man 
should  imitate  them,  and  because  one  has  a  leg  of  mutton,  the  other 
should  likewise  have  one.  This  very  day  I  have  seen,  in  Nottingham 
market,  all  the  best  joints  sold  by  the  butchers,  and  nothing  but  tho 
necks  of  mutton  and  the  coarse  pieces  of  beef  left,  which,  they  tell 
me,  hang  for  days  and  days,  lessening  both  quahty  and  quantity,  and 
then  are  sold  at  twopence  or  threepence  per  pound.  This  caus^ 
the  joints  most  in  vogue  to  be  dear,  whilst  there  is  auite  as  mufil? 


90      ON  THE  ECONOMY  OF  EOASTING  BY  OAH 

^ourisiiment  in  proportion  in  tlic^fie  sold  at  half  the  price  when  cooked 
fresh. 

I  must  here,  however,  describe  the  proper  system  of  roasting, 
(Sitlier  before  the  fire  or  by  gas  (see  note).  And  as  an  invariable  rule, 
all  dark  meats,  siich  as  beef  and  mutton,  should  be  put  down  to  a 
gharp  fire  for  at  least  fifteen  minutes,  until  the  outside  has  a  coating 
of  osmazome  or  gravy,  then  remove  it  back,  and  let  it  do  gently. 
Lamb,  veal,  and  pork,  if  young  and  tender,  should  be  done  at  a 
modera^te  fire.     Veal  even  should  be  covered  with  paper. 

Very  rich  meat,  if  covered  with  paper,  does  not  require  basting 
Fowls,  &c.,  should  be  placed  close  to  the  fire,  to  set  the  skin,  and  in 
about  ten  minutes  rubbed  over  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  pressed  in 
a  spoon.  Eoast  meats  should  be  dredged  with  flour,  just  at  the  time 
when  the  gravy  begins  to  appear;  the  flour  absorbs  it,  and  forms 
a  coating  which  prevents  any  more  coming  out.  Hares  and  small 
game  the  same. 

COTTAGE  ROASTING. 

In  the  first  place,  the  fire  must  be  made  up,  and  cleared  from 
ashes.  Place  before  it  the  dripping-pan,  and  from  above  the  fire, 
suspend  from  a  hook  a  piece  of  worsted  thread,  sufficiently  strong  to 
bear  the  joint,  and  a  hook  suspended  at  the  end.  Have  a  piece  of 
stick  forked  at  one  end,  which  place  against  the  mantle-piece,  so  that 


Note. 

ON  THE  COMFORT  AND  ECONOMY  OF  ROASTING  BY 
GAS,  WHERE  IT  CAN  BE  PROCURED. 

TJx^periment  made  at  the  Moyal  Naval  School,  Greenwich  ICospitalf 
ly  M.  Soyer. 

Two  interesting  trials  have  taken  place  at  the  above  establishment 
with  an  apparatus  manufactured  by  Messrs.  Smith  and  Phillips^ 
patentees,  of  Skinner-street,  Snow-hill,  under  the  superintendence  oi 
M.  Soyer,  which  in  their  results  fmally  determine  the  question  on 
the  merits  and  economy  of  roasting  by  gas. 

The  result  of  the  first  trial,  which  took  place  on  the  8th  inst., 
was,  that  86  legs  of  mutton,  weighing  288  lbs.,  were  roasted  at  a 
cost  of  1^.  2d, 

In  order  to  arrive  at  more  positive  results  in  regard  to  its  economy 
u  second  trial  was  deemed  requisite,  which  took  plac«  on  the  lltb 
mst.,  when  equal  weights  of  mutton  were  cooked.  Twenty-threa 
joints,  weighing  184  lbs.,  were  roasted  by  gas,  at  a  cost  of  10\d.f 
^ith  gas  supphed  at  4<5.  per  1000  feet.  When  cooked,  the  above 
weight        meat  v*a8  found  to  weigh  145  lbs.,  dripping:  19  lbs.,  and 


COTTAGE   ROASTING.  91 

it  keeps  the  thread  at  a  sufficient  distance  from  the  fire.  By  having 
two  pieces  of  stick,  the  distances  can  be  easily  managed.  Twist  the 
worsted;  pnt  on  the  joint;  give  it  a  sufficient  distance  from  the 
fire.  This  is  quite  equal  to  either  a  smoke  or  bottle -jack  for  cottage 
use. 

Every  cottage  should  have  a  moveable  piece  of  iron  or  steel 
screwed  on  the  mantel-piece,  with  teeth  fixed  in  it,  so  as  to 
be  able  to  hang  the  joint  at  any  distance  from  the  fire.  See 
Appendix:,  at  end  of  book. 

TIME  TABLE  FOK  ROASTING. 

228.  Ten  pounds  of  beef  will  take  from  two  hours  to  two 
hours  and  a  half  roasting,  eighteen  inches  from  a  good  fire. 

Six  pounds  one  hour  and  a  quarter  to  one  hour  and  a  half, 
fourteen  inches  from  the  fire. 

Three  ribs  of  beef,  boned  and  rolled  (see  E"o.  207),  well  tied 
round  with  paper,  will  take  two  hours  and  a  half,  eighteen 
inches  from  the  fire,  and  only  baste  once. 

If  beef  is  very  fat,  it  does  not  require  basting ;  if  very  lean, 
tie  it  up  in  greasy  paper,  and  baste  well. 

229.  Eight  pounds  of  veal  will  take  from  one  hour  and  a  half 


gravy,  or  osmazome,  2|-  lbs.,  thus  showing  the  actual  loss  to  be 
18f  lbs.  Twenty -three  joints  of  mutton  were  cooked  in  the  usual 
way,  as  adopted  at  the  mstitution,  namely,  in  one  of  Count  Rom- 
ford's ovens,  hitherto  considered  the  most  economical  way  of  roasting. 
When  put  in  they  weighed  184  lbs.,  when  done  132  lbs.,  dripping 
-  18  lbs.,  gravy  none,  thus  showing  a  loss  of  34  lbs.  The  coke  con- 
Bumed  in  this  oven  was  102  lbs.,  coal  30  lbs.,  thus  proving  the  great 
economy  of  gas  over  the  oven  by  a  saving  of  13  lbs.  of  meat,  1  lb.  of 
di'ipping,  2f  lbs.  of  gravy.  The  value  of  the  saving  is  as  follows : — 
Meat  at  6d.  per  lb.,  6s.  6d.;  dripping  at  5d.  per  lb.,  ^d.,  and  gravy 
at  Is.  6d.  per  lb.,  4?.  l^d.,  making  a  total  of  11^.  O^d. 

The  experiments  took  place  before  the  governor.  Sir  C.  Adam, 
and  lady.  Sir  J.  Liddle,  M.D.,  Lieut.  Rouse,  general  superintendent, 
Lieut.  Monk,  Messrs.  Lee  and  Seville,  inspector  of  works,  v/ho  ex- 
pressed their  admiration  at  the  cleanliness  and  simplicity  of  tha 
apparatus. 

In  order  to  show  the  advantage  of  the  system  in  all  its  branches, 
rump  steak  was  broiled  by  M.  Soyer,  before  the  company  present, 
w^ho  partook  of  it,  and  who  declared  it  was  perfectioDg  and  free  from 
ill  odour. — Mechanics*  Magazine, 


32  COTTAGB  BOASTING. 

to  two  hours,  eigliieen  inches  from  the  fire ;  if  stuffed,  at  least 
two  hours. 

Chump,  or  loin  and  kidneys,  of  four  pounds,  will  take  one  hout 
and  a  quarter ;  baste  well. 

Six  pounds  of  breast  one  hour,  twelves  inches  from  the  fire. 

Six  pounds  of  the  shoulder  or  neck  the  same. 

Calf's  heart,  stuffed  and  tied  up  in  paper,  three  quarters  of  an 
hour. 

230.  Mutton  (leg  of  eight  pounds),  will  take  one  hour  and  a 
half,  eighteen  inches  from  the  fire. 

Saddle,  ten  pounds,  one  hour  and  a  quarter  to  one  hour  and  a 
half,  eighteen  inches,  measuring  from  the  flat  surface. 
Shoulder,  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Loin,  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Breast,  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Neck,  one  hour. 

231.  Lamb,  according  to  size,  but  in  the  same  proportion  less 
than  mutton,  but  ought  always  to  be  w^ell  done,  and  placed 
nearer  the  fire ;  if  a  good  fire  about  fifteen  inches  from  it. 

Pork  should  be  well  done. 

Leg  of  six  pounds,  with  skin  over,  two  hours,  eighteen  inches 
from  the  fire. 

Loin  of  the  same,  one  hour. 

Neck,  the  same  weight,  one  hour  and  three-quarters. 

Pork  rubbed  with  salt  the  night  previous,  and  then  scraped 
before  roasting,  improves  the  flavour. 

In  roasting  of  beef,  mutton,  lamb,  pork,  and  poultry,  place  a 
dripping-pan  under  the  meat,  with  a  little  clear  dripping  or  fat, 
which  should  be  very  hot  when  the  meat  is  basted.  A  quarter 
of  an  hour  before  serving  add  half  a  pint  of  water  to  the  fat  in 
the  dripping-pan ;  dredge  the  meat  with  flom'  and  salt.  When 
the  meat  is  dished  up,  pour  the  contents  of  the  pan  into  a  basin, 
straining  it  through  a  gauze  sieve  kept  on  purpose ;  remove  all 
the  fat,  add  a  little  colouring  and  salt  to  the  gravy,  and  pour  it 
into  the  dish  under  the  meat. 

Yeal  and  poultry  should  have  half  the  quantity  of  water  put 
in  the  pan,  and  that,  when  strained,  added  to  half  a  pint  o} 
thick  melted  butter,  adding  two  teaspoonfuls  of  any  sauc**  foi 
flavour,  as  Harvey's,  Soyer's,  or  ketchup,  &e» 

Sage  and  onions  to  be  served  with  pork. 


ON   BAKING   MEAT   IN   OYE>^._  93 

Mint  sw£C8  with  lamb. 
Currant-jelly  witli  mutton. 

232.  Boasting  of  'Poultry.— \  proceed  thus :  Hang  it  up 
'  with,  worsted,  about  ten  inches  from  the  fire,  let  it  hang  for  ten 
minutes  to  set  the  skin,  then  press  into  a  wooden  spoon  a 
piece  of  butter  or  liard  dripping ;  when  the  skin  is  very  liot 
I  rub  it  over  with  the  fat  in  the  spoon  until  all  is  melted,  then 
I  draw  it  back  to  about  twelve  inches  :  a  good  sized  fowl  Vviil  take 
L  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  chicken  twenty  minutes,  middle-sized 
I  goose  one  hour,  turkey,  fourteen  pounds,  two  hom^s  and  a  half ; 
1  hare,  large,  one  hour  and  a  half,  if  very  young  tlu^ee  quarters 
c  of  an  hour.  JSTever  baste  them,  but  dredge  all,  after  having  well 
r  rubbed  them  over  with  butter,  as  for  fowls. 

Small  game  should  be  placed  nearer  the  fire. 

I  always  stuff  both  poultry  and  game  with  stufEng  No.  4563 
a  and  make  the  gravy  as  for  the  joints. 
j       Apple  sauce  with  goose. 

Currant  jelly  for  hare. 

Fried  bread-crumbs  with  grouse. 

Bread  sauce  v/itli  partridge  and  pheasant. 

ON  MEAT  IN  BAKEE^S  OVEN. 

1  Though  this  system  of  cooking  meat  is  far  from  receiving  my  appro- 
Ibation,  especiaily  on  the  score  of  economy,  still,  it  would  be  very 
r  ridiculous  on  our  part,  Eloise,  to  tliinlv  that  we  should  be  able 
entirely  to  reform  this  semi-barbarian  method  of  spoiling  food.  No; 
lit  must  be  a  work  of  time  that  will  prevent  small  folk  from  running 
tto  the  baker's  on  Sunday  with  either  their  legs  or  shoulders  under  their 
aarms.  The  reason  why  they  have  recourse  to  such  a  process  is  at 
I  once  simple  and  easily  explained:  first  of  all,  it  gives  them  no 
I  trouble,  and  hardly  any  of  them  study  economy,  so  long  as  the 
il  dinner  will  cook  itself,  though,  in  company  with  a  score  or  two  01 
oother  joints,  perhaps  no  two  being  of  the  same  size  or  quality. 

How  can  a  baker,  even  one  of  the  most  conscientious  of  that  useful 
c  class  of  individuals,  be  answerable  for  the  proper  cooking  of  this 
aawkward  squad,  if  such  we  may  term  it.  How  also  can  he  prevent 
tithe  potatoes  galavanting  from  one  dish  to  anotlier,  or  even  joints 
elchanging  dishes,  and  by  mistake,  going  to  the  wrong  home — impos- 
s  sible !  Is  he  to  be  answerable  if  an  eel  crawls  out  of  Mrs.  Arm- 
s  strong's  pie  (having  been  put  in  whole),  and,  after  cooking,  being 
I  found  reposing  under  one  of  Mrs.  Smith's  ribs  ?  or  can  he  prevent 
^Mrs.  Jenkhis's  cod's  head  staring  a  neighbouring  pig's  face  out  of 


9^  OK  BAicma  meat  ik  oysi.^. 

coiintenaRce  ?  No  more  would  he  be  able  to  obviate  the  above  evils, 
than  he  could  disentangle  the  fragrance  v/liich  emanates  from  eacli 
homely  volcano,  forming,  as  it  does,  an  aerial  coating  of  osmazoma 
under  the  same  roof. 

Moral.  Is  it  not  more  easy  for  a  mother  to  nurse  her  own  child, 
than  having  to  take  charge  of  the  whole  of  her  neiglibonrs'  children? 
therefore,  if  every  housewife  would  cook  her  little  family  dinner  at 
home,  instead  of  entrusting  it  to  the  nursing  care  of  a  baker's  oven, 
she  would,  by  so  doing,  though  at  the  sacriiice  of  a  little  time,  savo 
both  nutriment  and  money. 


A  FEW  NEW  AND  USEFUL  HINTS  ON  BAKING  MEAT. 

Ip  we,  Eloise,  cannot  entirely  reform  the  evils  caused  by  the  above- 
described  system,  I  feel  myself  in  duty  bound  to  give  a  few  hints  on 
the  subject  of  ameliorating  this  wasteful  method  of  cooking,  w^hich 
will  tend  both  to  economize  and  vary  the  flavour,  ^s  well  as  the  sub- 
stance, of  any  dish  that  might  be  doomed  to  undergo  this  ordeal. 

First  of  all,  I  v/ould  refer  you  to  such  receipts  on  semi-roasting 
joints,  such  as  beef,  veal,  mutton,  pork,  and  lamb,  done  in  the  baking- 
stewing-pan,  and  proceed  in  this  instance  precisely  the  same.  In 
respect  to  vegetables,  puddings,  rice,  &c.  &c.,  being  anxious  that  every 
person  should  partake  of  a  portion  of  vegetation  with  their  daily  food, 
independent  of  potatoes,  I  have  tried  all  the  following  receipts,  which 
I  beg  to  forward  you,  feeling  confident  they  will  prove  agree^.^^  to 
our  readers*  palate,  as  well  as  conducive  to  their  health. 


AN  IMPEOVED  BAKING-DISH. 

(For  drawing  of  wliich  see  Appendix  at  end  of  loolc) 

I  BEG  to  irform  you  that  I  have  had  made,  at  a  very  trifling  expense, 
an  improved  baking-dlsh.  Its  prinr^nles  are  as  follows :  on  the  rim  of 
the  dish,  I  have  attached  a  move^-Je  false  grating  of  wire,  to  the 
middle  of  which  is  fixed  a  trivet,  three  inches  in  height.  I  then  put  the 
pudding  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  put  in  the  grating,  on  v/hich 
,X  place  the  potatoes ;  then  on  the  trivet  I  put  the  meat.  By  this 
means  the  surplus  fat,  which  would  otherwise  fall  in  the  pudding 
and  prevent  its  setting,  descends  on  the  potatoes,  making  them  deli- 
cate and  crisp.  This  is  applicable  to  any  joint,  and  the  meat  being 
more  elevated  than  usual  when  placed  in  tlie  oven,  causes  it  to 
partake  m.ore  of  tlie  fiavour  of  a  roast  joint  than  it  does  when  put 
unmediately  over  the  pudding  or  potatoes,  the  vapours  arising  from 
which  soddens  the  meat,  instead  of  leavinja;  it  broi/^m  and  well 
carbonized. 


OH   IIAKiKG  MEAT  IK  OVEI?r.  'M 


A  SSSIES  OF  EECEIPTS  ON  BAKED  MEATS. 

Eihs  of  Beef  halced. — Take  tliree  long  ribs  of  beef,  bcn.e, 
season,  stuiF,  and  roll  as  for  semi-roasting,  No.  207  ;  put  eitner 
Yorksbire  pudding  or  any  kind  of  vegetable  in  tbe  bottom  ol 
tlie  dish,  tlien  put  on  tlie  grating,  on  wbicli  put  your  potatoes ; 
then  fix  on  tbe  trivet  at  about  three  inches  above  the  grating ; 
when  done,  pour  on  a  hot  dish  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  pour  this  under  your  joint,  tm^n 
it  over ;  when  hot,  turn  over  twice,  and  carve ;  it  will  make  a 
rich  gravy.  Serve  the  potatoes  round,  or  separate ;  the  pudding 
to  be  served  on  a  hot  dish. 

By  chopping  the  bone  small,  good  broth  and  soup  may  be 
made.  If  the  oven  happens  to  be  too  hot,  cover  the  joint  with 
a  piece,  or  two  of  plain  paper,  well  greased. 

A  piece  of  m_eat  weighing  about  eight  pounds,  v/ill  take 
from  one  hour  and  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  giving  always  as  a 
rule  from  ten  to  twelve  minutes  to  every  pound  of  meat,  for 
joints  of  from  six  to  twelve  pounds. 

Any  other  piece  of  beef  of  an  inferior  part,  requires  to  be 
baked  slowly,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  every  pound,  and  if  too 
lean,  may  be  larded,  as  l^o.  450 

2.  For  a  Leg  of  Torlc. — Peel  six  apples,  six  onions,  and 
twelve  potatoes  ;  put  the  apples  and  onions  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish,  adding  half  a  pint  of  coloured  v/ater,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  of  sugar,  half  one  of  pepper ;  lay  the  potatoes  on  the  grating, 
the  m.eat  over ;  give  fifteen  minutes  to  every  pound  of  meat. 
Half  a  pint  of  sage  and  onion  sauce  may  be  poured  over  the 
apples  and  onions  previous  to  baking.  Any  joint  of  pork  may 
De  stuffed  with  sage  a-id  onions. 

?i.  Fillet  oj  Veal.— J.  have  also  tried  the  following : — Prepare 
a  fillet,  which  stuff;  oil  a  sheet  or  two  of  clean  paper;  cut  in 
slices  four  ounces  of  bacon,  two  onions,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  a 
little  celery,  if  handy,  a  little  thyme  and  bay  leaf;  wrap  up  the 
veal  and  the  above  in  the  paper,  and  bake  for  two  hours  ;  when 
done,  take  out  the  veal  and  serve  with  vegetables  round  it.  It 
v/ili  be  delicious ;  pray  let  me  know  your  opinion. 

Any  part  of  veal  may  be  done  the  same.  Fried  baccn  iray 
be  serv<^  with  it. 


95  OK  BAKING  MEAT  m  OTM, 

Also  lialf  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  ketclmp, 
two  of  Harvey's  sauce,  well  mixed ;  pour  round  and  serve. 

4.  To  hake  Mutton  — Proceed  as  for  beef,  time  according  tQ 
size,  putting  under  a  Yorkshire  pudding,  or  some  rice  boiled 
with  curry  in  it,  or  boiled  French  haricot  beans,  which  I  have 
used  for  a  change  now  and  then.  I  also  put  a  piece  of  pudding- 
paste,  half  way  up  the  knuckle  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  which  pre- 
vents it  getting  dry,  that  being  so  much  thinner  than  the  other 
part. 

Loin  and  shoulder  the  same ;  if  a  piece  happens  to  be  lean 
and  dry,  butter  it  over,  cover  it  with  paste,  and  bake  as  usual. 
The  shoulder,  baked,  like  the  leg  of  pork,  is  good  with  apples, 
potatoes,  and  onions. 

5.  Juamb,  being  very  delicate,  allow  only  ten  minutes  per 
pound  for  the  ribs,  the  same  for  the  shoulder,  twelve  minutes 
for  the  leg.  Spinach,  peas,  asparagus,  and  sprouts,  are  best  with 
lamb. 

All  kinds  of  poultry  may  be  done  the  same,  though  roast  them 
by  all  means,  if  you  can ;  but  if  wrapped  up  in  paper,  as  for 
fillet  of  veal,  No.  3.  in  this  series,  it  will  be  excellent  baked. 

6.  Vegetables  with  haTcecL  Meat, — My  new  plan  of  cooking 
vegetables  with  baked  meat  is  as  follows : — Scrape,  wash,  and 
cut  in  pieces  two  pounds  of  carrots,  boil  them  in  salt  and  water 
till  three  parts  done,  drain  them  in  cullender,  then  put  them  at 
the  bottom  of  your  dish,  season  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  that  of  pepper,  add  half  a  pint  of  coloured  w^ater,  then 
place  the  potatoes  on  the  grating,  the  meat  on  the  trevet,  and 
bake  as  above."^ 

Any  such  joints  as  sirloin,  skirt,  edgebone,  or  any  other  piece 
of  beef,  v/eighing  from  eight  to  ten  pounds,  should  have  a  tea- 
Bpoonful  of  salt  sprinkled  over,  rubbing  on  also  a  little  fat  or 


*  In  the  way  of  vegetables  for  beef,  I  have  tried  turnips,  Jeru- 
ealem  artichokes,  parsnips,  &c.  Also  for  veal,  lamb,  and  mutton, 
Bpinach,  greens,  cauliflowers,  Brussels  sprouts,  all  parboiled  and  well 
drained.  A  pint  of  second  class  batter,  added  to  either  the  parsnips, 
artichokes,  turnips,  carrots,  peas,  asparagus,  &c.,  using  only  one  pound 
mstcad  of  two,  but  quite  boiled,  and  omitting  the  gravy,  either  cA 
these  win  turn  out  like  a  pudding. 


MKAT  PUDCINGa  97 

butter  5  roast  as  above,  dish  it  np  witli  the  gravy,  taking  off  the 
hi,  if  any,  serving  the  carrots  and  potatoes  with  it  or  separata. 

7.  Another  Way, — If  an  ordinary  dish,  put  the  potatoes  cT^r 
the  carrots,  also  a  few  onions  sliced,  and  the  beef  on  trevet,  as  usus-L 
When  the  meat  has  been  too  lean,  put  a  piece  of  fat  on  the  top, 
and  cover  the  beef  with  a  coating  of  pudding-paste,  No.  319. 
When  done  remove  the  paste,  and  brown  the  meat  with  a  shovel, 
like  you  would  do  venison ;  both  meat  and  paste  are  excellent, 
the  meat  being  full  of  gravy. 

MEAT  PUDDINGS. 

233.  Puddinas. — Although  the  same  v/ord  with  the  sama 
meaning  exists  in  all  European  languages,  yet  it  may  properly 
be  said  to  be  peculiarly  English,  as  pudding  has  become  quite  a 
national  dish.  The  various  counties  of  England  have  each  a 
particular  way  of  ma,king  them,  and  it  is  almost  impossible  to 
give  any  method  hitherto  untried. 

The  first  most  important  point  is  never  to  use  any  meat  that 
is  tainted,  for  in  pudding,  above  all  other  dishes,  it  is  least 
possible  to  disguise  the  confined  process  which  the  ingredients 
undergo ;  the  gradual  heating  of  the  meat,  which  alone  would 
accelerate  decomposition,  will  cause  the  smallest  piece  of  tainted 
meat  to  contaminate  all  the  rest.  Be  particular  that  the  suet 
and  fat  are  not  rancid,  ever  remembering  the  grand  principle, 
that  ever3rfching  which  gratifies  the  palate  nourishes. 

Tainted  meat,  you  will  justly  say,  is  bad  in  whatever  way  it 
may  be  cooked ;  true,  but  take  a  joint  which,  in  the  middle  of 
summer,  from  some  trifling  cause,  has  some  small  part  a  little 
tainted,  and  which  is  ofton  sold  cheap  to  those  who  cannot  afford 
to  purchase  better,  this,  by  the  worst  part  being  cut  away, 
rubbed  with  a  piece  of  charcoal,  if  for  roasting,  or  a  piece  of 
charcoal  put  into  the  water,  if  for  boiling,  at  once  renders  it 
sweet ;  but  our  great  national  dish  cannot  be  subjected  to  this 
process.  Although  the  tastes  of  all  people  differ ;  some  may  like 
the  haut  gout  of  high  venison  or  the  wild  fowl,  and  possibly 
might  lilve  the  same  in  pudding,  yet  '*^.  is  our  duty  here  to 
1  point  out  those  things  which  are  nourishing,  and  likewise 
those  that  are  not;  therefore,  I  here  send  you  some  receipts 
which  will  please  everybody's  taste,  everybody's  palate,  and,  I 
hope,  everybody's  pocket. 


98  MEAT   PUDDINGS. 

234.  ^eef  Pudding. — Take  about  one  pound  of  steak,  cut  it 
iengthways  in  three  pieces,  and  then  slantwajs  at  each  inch, 
instead  of  in  lumps ;  but  should  you  buy  cuttings  of  meat  from 
the  butchers,  then  remove  all  the  sinew  and  over  fat,  and  cut 
the  large  pieces  slantways,  put  them  in  a  dish,  and  sprinkle 
©ver  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half  ditto  of  pepper,  and  a  tea- 
;gpoonful  of  fiour,  the  same  of  chopped  onions ;  mix  well 
together,  make  six  or  eight  ounces  of  paste  as  No.  319,  roll  it  to 
the  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  or  a  little  more,  put 
pud  ding- cloth  in  a  basin,  sprinkle  some  flour  over  it,  lay  in  your 
paste,  and  then  the  meat,  together  with  a  few  pieces  of  fat ; 
when  full  put  in  three  wineglasses  of  water ;  turn  the  paste  over 
the  meat,  so  as  not  to  form  a  lump,  but  well  closed ;  then  tie  the 
cloth,  not  too  close  on  the  paste,  or  it  will  not  be  light ;  boil  it 
fast  in  four  quarts  of  v/ater  for  one  hour ;  take  it  out,  let  it  stand 
a  few  minutes  to  cool  the  cloth,  cut  the  string,  turn  back  the 
cloth,  place  a  dish  on  the  top,  and  t\irn  it  over  on  it,  remove  the 
cloth,  and  serve. 

235. — If  you  choose  to  add  a  kidney  it  may  add  to  the 
richness  of  the  gravy,  also  a  few  oysters,  or  even  a  mushroom. 
The  crust  should  always  be  cut  v/ith  a  knife. 

If  you  carefully  follow  the  above  instructions  you  will  have  a 
pudding  quite  perfect,  the  paste  as  light  and  as  white  as  snow, 
and  the  meat  tender,  with  a  thick  gravy. 

236. — Observation.  You  will  perhaps  be  surprised  that  I  recommend 
It  to  be  boiled  fast  instead  of  simmering.  I  do  so,  because  the  meatj.- 
being  enclosed  in  the  paste,  and  sometimes  in  a  basin,  is  alone  subject 
to  the  action  of  simmering  in  its  own  gravy.  These  puddings  lose  a 
less  amount  of  nourishment  in  cooking  than  any  other  kind.  In  a 
large  pudding  a  few  sliced  pota,toes  is  not  bad.  This  may  truly  bo 
considered  as  much  a  na^tional  dish  as  roast  beef  and  plum  pudding, 
and  being  so,  it  is  surprising  that  it  is  so  often  made  badly,  and  indi- 
gestible :  the  pieces  of  meat  and  fat  often  cut  two  inches  square, 
instead  of  smaller  pieces ;  the  pudding,  sometimes  left  half  out  of  the 
water,  the  crust  becomes  hard  and  black,  and  the  meat  very -dry. 

237.  Moasi  Beef  Pudding. — Any  remains  of  cold  roast  beef 
may  be  done  as  follows :  mince  about  one  pound  of  cooked  meat, 
cut  in  dice,  put  on  a  dish,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  that 
of  pepper,  one  of  ilour;  fill  3^oui  paste  with  it,  add  a  gill  of 
water  i  cover  over  as  usual,  shake  it  well,  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth, 


MEAr   PUDDINGS. 


99 


snd  boil  for  half  an  hour,  and  serve.    A  little  chopped  onioB^  af 
parsley  may  be  introduced. 

238.  Another  Way. — Proceed  as  above,  only  add  for  ^7ery 
pound  of  meat  two  ounces  of  either  gherkins,  pickled  v/alirjits 
or  mushrooms,  chopped  fine  or  sliced. 

239.  Mince  Beef  Fudding  with  Bggs. — Proceed  as  ^bove  % 
omit  the  pickles,  adding  boiled  ham  or  fried  bacon  instead,  cut 
in  dice,  also  add  two  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  dice;  mix  all 
together ,  boil  as  above,  white  sauce  over,  or  melted  butter. 

240.  Veal  TudJAng. — Cut  two  pounds  of  raw  veal,  four  ounces 
of  ham,  or  lean  bacon ;  season  delicately  with  a  teaspoonful  ol 
salt,  the  half  of  pepper,  a  little  flour  and  chopped  parsley,  a  gill 
of  water ;  proceed  as  for  the  other  puddings,  boil  two  hours,  and 
serve. 

241.  Calves  'Brain  and  Tongue  of  any  hind,  previously 
coohed, — Soak  and  wash  a  brain  clean,  boil  it  for  a  quarter  of 
an  houi'  in  a  quart  of  water,  in  which  has  been  added  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  pepper,  and  a  little  vinegar,  if  handy. 
Let  it  get  cold,  then  mould  the  pudding;  cut  the  brain  in,  half- 
inch  slices,  lay  thin  slices  of  tongue,  previously  cooked,  on  the 
bottom,  th.en  of  brain;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and  a 
little  chopped  onions ;  continue  until  full ;  then  mix  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour  with  a  gill  and  a  half  of  milk,  or  water,  and  pour  in ; 
close  the  pudding,  and  boil  one  hour  and  serve.  Cut  it  with  a 
knife.  Two  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices,  would  improve  it ;  also 
a  little  gherkin,  chopped  fine,  will  vary  the  flavour. 

242.  Sheep's,  Lamb's,  and  Big's  Brains,  and  Tongue  Bud' 
dings, — Proceed  as  for  Calves'^  but  will  not  take  quite  so  long  in 
cooking. 

243.  Calves'  H.ead  and  Tongue. — The  remains  of  any  from  a 
previous  dinner  can  be  used  for  puddings  with  or  without  a  little 
brain :  proceed  as  for  brain  pudding.  A  little  curry  powder 
added  will  improve  it. 

This  will  produce  a  better  effect  on  the  table  as  a  padding, 
than  a  common  hash ;  for  the  great  principle  in  cookery  is  to 
please  the  eye,  as  well  as  the  palate. 

244.  Lamh,  Veal,  or  Borh  Liver  Budding, "--C'ai  one  poimil 


100  MIJAT   PtfBBIIirGS, 

^1  liver  in  glices?,  also  two  ounces  of  bacon ;  season  witli  a  tea* 
fipooDful  of  salt,  a  half  of  pepper,  one  chopped  onion,  one  o! 
parsley;  mix  it  well  with  the  bacon,  dip  each  piece  of  liver  in 
ft-.niie  liour,  and  lay  the  liver  and  bacon  in  the  pudding,  with  a 
gill  and  a  half  of  water ;  boil  one  hour.  A  teaspoonful  of  colour- 
ing mixed  with  the  water  will  give  a  rich  appearance  to  all 
pudding  gravies. 

245.  The  same,  a  plainer  Wa^. — Cut  one  pound  of  liver  and 
two  ounces  of  bacon  into  dice,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  square; 
season  with  only  salt,  pepper,  and  onions,  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and 
a  gill  and  a  half  of  water ;  lay  it  in  the  pudding,  and  boil  as 
before.     StufEng  No.  456  may  be  mixed  with  it. 

246.  Liver  and  Kidney  Tudding, — Put  in  a  frying-pan  two 
ounces  of  dripping,  two  ounces  of  bacon,  in  dice ;  put  it  on  the 
fire ;  when  the  liver  and  kidney  are  r.easoned,  place  it  in  the  pan, 
and  stir  round  until  it  is  set ;  each  piece  should  be  firm ;  then 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mixed  with  a  gill  and  a  half  of 
coloured  water,  No.  453a.  When  nearly  boiling,  place  it  in  the 
pudding,  tie  up,  and  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  A  few  herbs 
is  a  variation. 

247.  Mutton  Fiidding, — Chump  of  mutton  is  the  best  part 
to  make  into  pudding,  which  cut  in  slices  as  for  beef  pudding  | 
in  case  it  is  very  fat,  add  potatoes,  and  proceed  the  same. 

248.  Sheep's  Sead,  Tongue,  and  Trotters,  previously  cooked, 
may  be  made  into  a  very  nice  pudding,  proceeding  as  usual. 
A  few  pickled  walnuts,  sliced,  may  be  added. 

249.  Lamh  Pudding. — Take  the  breast,  and  remove  the  big 
bones  ;  cut  it  crossways,  season  lightly ;  have  some  veal  stufiing 
veady,  and  lay  the  meat  and  stufiing  in  alternate  layers  in  the 
pudding,  with  a  gill  and  a  half  of  water  to  every  pound ;  boil  one 
hour  and  a  half;  serve  with  melted  butter  over  the  pudding,  and 
a  little  chopped  parsley  on  the  top ;  it  has  an  inviting  efiect. 

Any  part  of  the  lamb  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

250-  Porh  JPudding. — Get  about  a  pound  of  pork,  as  lean  as 
possible ;  any  cuttings  v/ill  do ;  cut  them  into  slices ;  season  with 
a  little  chopped  sage,  a  teaspoonful  ol'  salt,  half  of  pepper; 
roll  the  pieces  up,  and  put  them  in  the  pudding  with  a  ftw  slices. 


MEAT    PUBDlNri^l  101 

sf  potatoes,  cnions,  one  apple ;  add  a  gill  and  a  half  of  water  j 
sover  as  usual,  and  boil  for  one  hour  and  a  half. 

251.  Hahhit  Tudding. — A  rabbit  cut  into  about  sixteen  or 
eighteen  pieces,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  sliced ;  seasc-n 
in  proportion  to  size,  as  before,  and  if  for  a  numerous  family,  a/ld 
ten  potatoes  and  four  onions,  sliced,  and  half  a  pint  of  water ;  boil 
for  two  hours,  or  according  to  size.  Boiled  rice  may  be  added 
instead  of  potatoes.  Well  intermix  the  meat  with  the  vegetables 
or  rice. 

252.  Cliicken  JPudding. — Cut  one  into  eight  pieces,  half  a 
pound  of  bacon,  cut  into  slices ;  season  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  half  of  pepper,  two  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  and 
one  captain's  biscuit,  well  broken;  fill  the  pudding  with  the 
taeat,  add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  boil  for  one  hour  and  a  half; 
serve  with  melted  butter  over,  and  chopped  parsley  on  the  top. 

253.  "Pigeon  'Pudding. — Pluck,  draw,  and  stuff  two  pigeons 
with  the  stuffing  No.  456  ;  then  cut  some  large  thin  slices  of  beef, 
and  some  of  the  bacon ;  season  well ;  roll  the  pigeons  in  the  meat 
And  bacon,  lay  them  in  the  pudding ;  boil  four  eggs  hard,  cut 
them  into  quarters,  and  fill  the  cavities  with  them ;  mix  a  tea- 
ispoonful  of  flour  with  half  a  pint  of  milk,  or  water,  close  up,  and 
boil  for  one  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve. 

^  The  same  in  Broion  Gravy. — Add  a  tablespoonful  of  colour- 
;  ing,  a  little  more  salt  and  pepper. 

Young  wood-pigeons  may  be  done  the  same  way,  but  will 
\  take  half  an  hour  longer  doing. 

254.  Partridge  and  Cahhage  Pudding. — Cut  a  Savoy  cab- 
bage into  four  pieces,  removing  some  of  the  outside  leaves ;  boil 
it  for  ten  minutes,  let  it  get  cold,  press  the  water  out,  cut 
oE  the  thick  root,  and  cut  the  other  in  slices ;  then  stuff  the 
partridge  as  Ko.  45(5,  place  slides  of  bacon  round  it,  lay  some 
cabbage  in  the  pudding,  paste  as  usual,  season  the  partridge,  and 
lay  it  in  with  six  or  eight  button  onions,  then  tlie  remainder  of 
the  cabbage,  a  gill  of  brown  gravy,  No.  2,  or  coloured  water,  No. 

'i  453  A :  boil  two  hours,  if  an  old  bird,  or  one  and  a  half,  if  young. 

255.  Young  "Rooh  Pudding. — If  these  young  inhabitants  of 
tthe  woods  and  forests  are  eatable  in  pies,  I  do  not  see  why  we 
B  ehould  not  give  them,  after  their  \rild  career,  a  soil  bed  of  rex^ose 


102  MEAT   PUDDINGS. 

in  a  pudding  crust.  Open  them  "by  the  back,  then  draw  them, 
divide  them  into  two,  and  then  into  quarters ;  extract  the  big 
bones,  leaving  the  flesh  only ;  beat  each  piece  fiat,  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  grated  ginger ;  make  a  stuiSng 
Vv^ith  the  liver,  No.  457.  Lay  on  the  crust  a  slice  of  bacon,  then 
the  birds,  then  a  slice  of  steak ;  season  with  any  aromatic  herbs, 
or  chopped  onions,  leeks  or  mushrooms ;  add  a  gill  of  ale,  or 
wine,  gravy  or  water ;  boil  one  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve. 
Pigeons  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

256.  Fish  Fudding, — Take  two  pounds  of  cod  fish,  cut  in 
slices  about  the  size  of  five-shilling  pieces,  half  an  inch  thick ; 
fill  the  bowl  with  the  paste,  as  usual,  lay  some  of  the  fish  on  the 
bottom,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  onions, 
a  little  flour  and  pieces  of  the  liver,  if  any,  then  the  fish,  and 
60  on  until  full ;  add  a  gill  of  milk  or  water,  shake  it  well,  tie  up, 
and  boil  one  hour,  and  serve,  A  little  bay  leaf  and  thjme  may 
be  added,  if  handy. 

All  fish  may  be  done  the  same  way,  varying  the  flavour 
according  to  taste. 

257.  Fish  Tudding,  a  plainer  Way. — Cut  one  pound  of  any 
fish  in  small  pieces,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  on  a  dish,  a 
little  flavour ;  mix  well,  put  in  the  paste  with  a  gill  of  water,  and 
if  you  have  a  wine-glass  full  of  any  fish  sauce,  add  it,  cover 
up,  boil  one  hour,  and  serve. 

258.  Macherel  Fudding, — Cut  off  the  heads  of  two  mackerel, 
cut  each  one  in  four  pieces,  keeping  the  roe  in ;  fill  ^\q>  pudding 
with  the  pieces,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  chopped  onions 
and  fennel,  add  a  gill  of  water,  boil  one  hour,  and  serve  with 
fennel  sauce  over. 

259.  Fel  Fudding, — Cut  in  long  pieces,  season  wiib  salt, 
pepper,  chopped  onions,  parsley ;  add  a  gill  of  water  ?  wine  or 
teer  is  very  good,  and  proceed  as  for  the  others. 

260.  talced  Puddings, — My  excellent  friend,  jou  must  be  of 
the  same  opinion  as  the  rest  of  the  world,  namely,  that  variety 
is  charming  in  almost  every  movement  of  life,  therefore  you  will 
Hot  object  to  my  new  proposal  to  send  it  to  the  baker's;  when 
the  oven  is  at  a  moderate  heat,  they  will  be  found  exceller^t, 
eating  different  to  a  pie.     The  doth  of  course  is  not  required, 


::i 


MEAT   PIES,  103 

dnl}'  grease  the  bashi ;  lay  on  the  paste  when  the  contents  are  in; 
make  the  paste  meet  equally  on  the  top,  moisten  with  water,  roll 
out  another  piece  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  put  it  over 
when  fit,  and  cut  away  the  trimmings  from  the  edge  of  the 
basin,  egg  it  over,  bake  in  a  slow  oven,  giving  about  the  same 
time  as  you  would  for  boiling;  when  done,  shake  the  basin 
well,  to  make  the  gravy  the  same  thickness  throughout,  and 
serve,  turning  it  out  on  a  dish ;  perforate  the  top. 

261.  Puddings  half  steamed  and  boiled. — Put  in  a  pan  a 
quart  of  water,  when  boiling,  put  your  basin  in  with  the  pudding 
in  it,  boil  gently  one  hour  or  more,  according  to  what  your 
pudding  is  made  of;  add  boiling  water  occasionally,  so  as  always 
to  keep  the  same  quantity  in  the  pot.  By  having  previously 
well  buttered  the  basin,  when  done,  by  passing  a  knife  between 
the  paste  and  the  basin,  you  may  turn  or  cut  it  out,  and  pour 
over  any  appropriate  sauce  you  like.  They  may  also  be  steamed, 
acj  now  almost  every  kitchen  possesses  steam  pans,  in  connexion 
with  the  boiler  of  the  range ;  or  put  some  water  in  our  new 
baking-pan,  put  in  the  pudding,  and  send  to  the  oven. 

IMPOETANT  OBSEEVATIOirS  ON  THE  ABOVE  EECEIPTS. 

I  must  not  forget  to  teU  you,  Eloise,  that  any  of  the  above  sort 
of  puddings,  no  matter  what  made  of,  if  sweet  or  savoury,  is  prefer- 
able made  in  a  basin  to  being  put  in  a  cloth,  whica  is  often  very  dirty 
in  appearance ;  while,  if  boiled  in  a  basin,  the  paste  receives  all  the 
nutriment  of  the  meat,  which,  if  boiled  in  a  cloth,  would  evaporate 
in  the  water,  if  by  neglect  it  ceases  boiling.  If  you  wish  to  turn  it 
well  out,  thoroughly  grease  the  inside  of  your  basin  when  making. 

On  Pudding  Cloths, — A  pudding  cloth,  however  coarse, 
ought  never  to  be  washed  with  soap;  it  should  be  dried  as 
quickly  as  possible,  and  kept  dry  and  free  from  dust,  and  in  a 
drawer  or  cupboard  free  from  smell. 

MEAT  PIES. 

Peeviotts  to  making  any  pie  do  not  omit  reading  the  very  important 
remarks  I  have  made  at  the  introduction  of  fruit  yiss,  see  Index. 

262.  Beefsteak  Pie.  —  Cut  two  pounds  of  steak  into  about 

twenty  thin  pieces,  lengthways,  fat  included,  season  them  witk 

Iwo  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  and  a  little  chopped 

lierbs.  and  place  them  symmetrically  on  the  dish,  forroir-ig  it  high. 

H 


104  MEAT   PlEla. 

in  tlie  centre.  Add  half  a.  pint  of  water,  in  wKicK  has  been  put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  colouring.  Cover  over  with  paste  (No.  317) 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  for  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Pud- 
ding paste  No.  319  may  be  used.  For  variety  of  pie-dishes  see 
appendix. 

A  little  stuffing  rolled  up  in  the  meat  makes  a  change,  and  k 
fit  for  the  best  table. 

A  few  spoonfuls  of  Harvey's  sauce  is  likewise  a  change. 

263^  Family  Steah  Pie, — Take  and  cut  two  pounds  of  Jeef 
in  slices,  two  pounds  of  potatoes,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  onions ; 
season  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  pepper;  mix  it 
weU  together;  put  the  meat  and  potatoes  into  the  pie-dish,  in 
alternate  layers;  add  a  pint  of  water;  cover  over,  as  above, 
and  bake  for  one  hour  and  a  half. 

264.  Veal  Pie. — Delicate  veal  and  ham  pies  can  be  made 
like  the  above,  rolling  up  the  veal  and  a  little  ham,  or  bacon, 
together,  and  a  little  stuffing,  if  handy.  Proceed  as  for  steak, 
or  as  for  family  steak-pies. 

Pork  pies  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

265.  Bahlit  Pie.  —  Cut  the  rabbit  up  as  for  pudding 
(No.  251) ;  roll  the  pieces  in  flour,  then  put  them  in  the  pie- 
dish,  with  some  slices  of  ham  or  bacon;  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  chopped  onions,  nutmeg,  (grated,  if  handy),  according 
to  size;  add  half-a-pint  of  water;  cover,  and  bake.  A  tea^ 
jspoonful  of  curry  may  be  added,  instead  of  pepper. 

iFor  family  rabbit  pie  proceed  as  for  family  steak  pie. 

266.  J^l^'^APzV.-— Proceed  in  every  way  as  for  puddings,  and 
bake  one  hour.  Oysters,  muscles,  perrywinkles,  cockles,  &c., 
may  be  used. 

267.  Sare  Pie. — If  it  is  a  large  hare  it  is  best  to  jug  it,  as  \ 
No.  216,  cut  in  half  crossways.  Save  the  back  and  legs  foi 
roasting,  and  with  the  front  part,  which  cut  in  pieces,  make 
the  pie.  Put  some  steak  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  with  sali^ 
pepper,  and  chopped  onions ;  dip  each  piece  of  hare  in  flour,  lay 
them  on  the  steak,  make  some  small  balls  of  veal  stuffing,  which 
place  in  various  places ;  cover  over  with  more  steak ;  add  half- 
a-pint  of  water ;  finish  with  paste  as  usual.  When  baked,  shak® 
the  dish  to  mix  tbft  gravy.     The  addition  of  a  glass  of  wine,  a 


few  Kerbs,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  currant  jellj,  is  a  great 
improvement. 

268.  The  Artisan's  Tie.—Aiaj  pieces  of  meat,  but  not  too^ 
fat — four  ounces  of  fat  to  every  pound  of  meat  is  enoagli.  Take 
two  pounds  of  meat  cut  in  slices,  season  it  with  three  teaspoon- 
fuls of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  four  sliced  onions ;  peel  four  pounds 
of  potatoes,  cut  in  thick  slices,  which  place  oil  the  bottom  of 
the  dish,  thea  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  the  meat ;  season  well ; 
add  a  pint  of  water,  and  bake  for  two  hours. 

Trimmings  of  meat  of  all  kinds  may  be  purchased  in  every 
large  town,  especially  in  London,  and  are  the  proper  pieces  for 
such  economical  pies ;  in  buying  them,  take  care  there  is  none 
tainted,  as  it  will  produce  the  effect  as  described  in  introduction. 
of  puddings.     Cover  with  crust,  as  No.  319. 

269.  Poor  Mans  Fotatoe  Pie. — ^Wash  and  peel  six  pounds 
of  potatoes,  cut  them  in  slices ;  take  half-a-pound  of  the  fat  of 
mutton  or  beef,  or  dripping,  cut  into  small  dice ;  season  the 
whole  with  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  three  of  salt;  cover 
with  paste,  No.  317     and  bake  on^  hour  and  a  half. 

A  bloater,  boned  and  cut  up  with  the  fat,  makes  a  nice 
change  of  flavour. 

VEGETABLES. 

As  I  have  before  remarked,  the  food  of  man,  in  order  to  give 
proper  nourishment,   should  be  often  varied;    in  fact,   his  health 
depends  upon  it,  and  nature  seems  to  have  given  him  those  instru- 
ments, the  teeth,  by  which  he  is  enabled  to  masticate  both  animal  and 
Vegetable  food,  besides  having  provided  him  abundantly  with  vegetable 
/Produce,  which  seems  the  £)alance,  in  point  of  health,  between  that 
I  and  rich  animal  food.     It  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  labouring  poor 
'  of  this  country  do  not  partake  of  more  vegetables  than  they  do  at 
present.     If  we  travel  over  the  country,  we  are  surprised  to  find 
jhow  small  a  portion  of  ground  is  engaged  in  horticulture ;  the  con« 
I  sequence  is  that,  excepting  near  large  towns,  scarcely  a  vegetable  is 
1  to  be  obtained,  and  the  poor  are  doomed  to  live  almost  entii'ely  om 
1  bread  and  cheese  and  a  small  portion  of  animal  food,  not  even  a 
)  potatoe  is  to  be  had  during  the  winter  and  spring  of  the  year.     It  is 
I  said  by  some,  thafc  the  climate  being  colder  than  on  the  continent, 
t  the  blood  requires  more  heating  food,  and  that  in  the  summer  the 
1  English  are  as  much  vegetable  eaters  as  their  neighbom's ;  if  such 


106  tEOETABLES. 

is  tlio  case,  wliy  not,  then,  add  to  the  vegetables,  in  cooking  tlicJn, 
those  elements  which  would  give  all  that  animal  food  does. 

.  The  most  important  of  all  the  produce  of  the  field  is  wheat,  hut 
that  we  shall  treat  of  hereafter,  under  the  head  of  bread.  The  most 
important  of  vegetable  produce  is  the  potato,  a  root  the  failure 
of  whose  growth  produced  a  famine  in  one  of  the  most  productive 
countries  in  the  world.  It  is  a  root  in  universal  use,  and  yet  is 
acknowledged  to  be  by  every  one  the  least  understood  how  to  be  cooked. 
A  writer  ill  a  public  journal,  the  other  day,  speaking  of  a  well-boiled 
potato,  says  "  that  at  present  it  is  a  thing  purely  ideal — it  has  never 
come  out  of  the  pot,  in  the  experience  of  living  man."  And  why  ? 
13ecause  people  boil  all  potatoes  alike.  If  you  ask  Betty  why  she 
boiled  the  potatoes  in  such  a  manner,  she  answers,  "  My  mother,  or 
my  sister,  did  so,  and  they  were  good."  And  so  with  everybody, 
little  thinkino:  that  almost  every  potato  differs ;  even  the  produce  of 
the  same  seed  will  often  differ  in  the  same  field.  This  is  caused  by 
the  different  soils,  and  the  different  manures  applied  to  those  soils. 

The  present  potato  is  quite  a  different  root  from  its  parent  one, 
which  grows  in  the  Caribbean  islands. 

Animal  food,  although  flesh,  differs  in  its  nature,  and  requires 
different  cookery.  A  Welsh  or  a  Kerry  leg  of  mutton  requires  to  be 
treated  quite  different  to  a  Leicestershire  or  Southdown. 

Thus  it  is  with  the  potato.  Some  require  quick  boiling,  others 
elow ;  some  plenty  of  water,  others  little ;  some  are  best  baked  in 
their  skins,  others  peeled ;  some  large  ones  require  to  be  cut  in  two, 
others  will  spoil  if  cut ;  and  so  on  through  all  the  various  gradations, 

I  therefore  consider  it  requisite,  that  if  a  potato  is  found  not  to 
be  good  by  one  system  of  boiling  or  steaming,  to  try  another 
Boiling,  as  I  have  said  before,  is  the  most  simple  process  of  cookery, 
and  it  is  easily  tried. 

Fotato  boiled. — Meg  Dods  says  there  are  great  varieties  ol 
potatoes,  and  fully  as  many  ways  of  cooldng  them,  but  recom- 
mends boiling  in  preference  to  steaming.  Mrs.  Eundell  prefers 
steaming,  or,  if  boiled,  in  plenty  of  water,  and  when  half  done, 
some  cold  water  and  salt  thrown  in,  and  boil  until  not  quit© 
done,  and  then  left  in  the  pot  near  the  fire.* 


*  This  is  the  Irish  peasant's  way  (if  he  wishes  to  fast  for  six  hours]^ 
as  it  leaves  ths  bone  or  moon  in  it.  The  origin  of  the  word  in  Irisl^ 
au  gliealeacJi,  is  that,  when  a  half-cooked  potato  is  cut  in  two,  the 
2entre  shows  a  disk,  with  a  halo  around  it,  like  the  moon.  This 
does  not  digest  so  quick,  and  allows  the  person  who  eats  it  to  s,t 
longer  without  food,  which  I  consider  a  great  detriment  to  the  coatiDf 
of  the  stomach. 


I 


VEGETABLES*  107 

Mrs.  Gksse  says,  Boil  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  without 
[burning  the  saucepan. 

Mrs.  Acton  gives  only  the  Lancashire  way ;  this  is,  peeled 
nand  boiled  slowly;  when  done,  salt  thrown  over,  and  then  the 
I  pot  shook  violently  for  some  time,  so  that  they  are  broken.  She 
I  remarks  that  this  method  is  not  economical. 

Having  given  these,  it  is  only  right  I  should  give  n^y  ideas. 

iAs  I  have  before  said,  they  all,  perhaps,  require  a  different 

i  Bystem.     If  steamed,  salt  should  be  thrown  into  the  water,  and 

r  not  on  the  potato,  and  when  done,  remove  the  steamer,  and  also 

khe  cover. 

270.  How  to  choose  Potatoes. — Observe,  as  a  general  rule, 

I  that  the  smaller  the  eye,  the  better  the  potato,  as  when  they 

«are  too  full  in  the  eye  they  are  either  of  an  inferior  quality,  or 

are  running  to  seed.     To  ascertain  if  they  are  sound,  nip  a 

\  piece  from  the  thickest  end  with  your  finger  nail ;  if  good,  the 

inside  will  either  be  of  a  white,  yellow,  or  reddish  hue,  according 

f  to  the  sort  and  quality ;  if,  on  the  contrary,  they  are  spotted, 

they  are  bad,  or  getting  so;   but  though  this  part  may  be 

slightly  touched,  by  cutting  a  little  ojff  the  outside  they  may 

prove  fit  for  boiling ;  though  they  ought  to  be  bought,  when  in 

t  this  state,  at  a  cheap  rate.     Potatoes  always  get  ba.d  in  the 

f  spring  of  the  year,  as  then  the  old  ones  are  going  out,  and  the 

1  new  ones  for  some  time  continue  to  possess  but  little  flavour, 

!  and  are  watery  when  boiled.     The  old  ones  ought  to  be  peelecf 

J  and  steamed,  and  mashed,  or  baked  in  an  oven,  under  a  joint, 

I  or  fried  in  fat,  as  No.  298 ;  for  when  done  whole  in  their  skins. 

!  at  this  time  of  the  year,  the  slightest  spot  spoils  their  flavour, 

!  The  new  ones  are  tasteless  and  watery,  and,  as  I  described  above 

{ to  you,  are  much  better  cooked  when  put  in  very  hot  water,  but 

inot  boiling,  than  when  put  in  cold, 

271. — If  boiled,  it  may  be  that  they  require  to  be  put  into 
I  boiling  water,  or,  may  be,  in  cold,  and  either  boiled  quick  or  slow, 
I  but  this  you  must  find  out.  Choose  all  about  the  same  size,  with 
I  a  smooth  skin,  and  when  they  are  boiled  and  begin  to  cracli^ 
I  throw  off  the  water  immediately,  as  it  only  damages  the  root 
t  Stand  near  the  fire,  with  a  cloth  on,  and  serve  in  skin.  Salt 
I  should  be  put  into  the  water  at  the  beginning.  A  watery 
I  potato  will  require  quick  boiling,  and  sometimes  to  be  put  in 
I  «K)iling  water,    K  very  watery,  and  they  will  not  boil  meaiy. 


108  VEGETABLES, 

put  t'iiem  liito  tlie  pot  in  their  skins,  fill  np  with  water,  and  a 

piece  of  lime  the  size  of  a  nut,  and  they  v/iil  turn  out  mealy.   It 
is  unnecessary  here  to  explain  scientifically  the  cause  of  this. 

272.  Neio  Potatoes — Should  be  cleaned,  and  the  skin  rubbed 
off  with  a  coarse  cloth ;  add  a  little  salt  if  the  skin  is  dry.  Put 
them  into  very  hot  water,  and  boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes.  Take  them  out  of  the  water  and  let  them  drain 
before  sending  to  table,  throwing  some  salt  over  them.  If  very 
small  they  will  not  take  above  ten  minutes. 

273.  Balced  Potatoes,  with  the  skin  on,  should  be  chosen  a 
large  size  (regents),  placed  in  a  slow  oven  and  so  that  they  do  not 
touch ;  or  if  in  a  Duch  or  American  oven,  before  the  fire,  they 
should  be  turned  often ;  they  will  take  from  one  and  a  half  to 
two  hours.  If  without  their  skins,  they  should  be  done  in  a 
brown  pan  with  fat,  turning  them  occasionally. 

274.  JBahed  Potato  with  Sausage  {called  Soyer^s  Potato),-^ 
Take  a  large  potato  and  cut  out  a  round  piece  as  big  as  a  shil- 
ling, through  the  potato ;  put  in  the  scoop  and  remove  some  of 
the  inside,  fill  this  with  sausage-meat  or  veal  stuffing,  cover  the 
hole  with  a  part  of  what  you  cut  out,  and  bake  with  cut  part 
uppermost. 

275.  Maslied  Potatoes. — ^After  having  boiled  twelve  middling 
sized  potatoes  until  mealy,  peel  them,  if  with  the  skins  on,  and 
remove  the  eyes  or  specks ;  put  them  into  a  bowl,  and  take  two 
forks  in  one  hand,  with  the  points  of  the  prongs  turned  out- 
wards ;  break  the  potatoes  up  with  them ;  when  breaking,  add 
En  ounce  of  butter  and  a  gill  of  milk  or  a  little  more  to  them, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  to  every  pound,  and  a  pinch  of 
pepper;  they  should  be  beat  a  great  deal,  until  they  become 
quite  light ;  they  should  never  be  hard  like  paste,  as  is  often 
ihe  case  when  stirred  with  a  spoon. 

Potatoes,  if  large,  might  be  peeled,  and  cut  in  foiir  pieces, 
put  in  boiling  water  with  some  salt,  boiled  rather  fast,  and  well 
drained  v/hen  done;  let  the  pan  stand  near  the  fire  to  dry  youi 
potatoes — three  minutes  will  do  it — and  mash  them  as  above, 

276.  NetD  Poaded  Potato. — This  should  be  a  large  potato 
»— the  kidney  kind  preferred — should  be  half  boiled,  the  skin 
t^move,  put  into  a  baking  dish,  well  rubbed  with  butter  or  fat. 


VEGETABLES.  109 

and  dredged  with  a  little  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  into 
the  oven,  or  before  the  fire,  either  in  an  American  or  Dutch 
oven,  until  done ;  they  ought  to  be  of  a  nice  brovirn  colour,  and 
are  very  relishing. 

277.  Jerusalem  ArticJiolce  should  be  well  washed  and  peeledi 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  of  tiiarm  water,  with  salt  in  it ;  boil  till 
tender,  then  serve  them  up ;  if  to  be  mashed,  mash  thern  at  once, 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter ;  if  whole,  keep  them  covered  until 
served.     Melted  butter  over  improves  the  look. 

They  may  be  mashed  with  a  little  gravy ;  put  in  a  dish, 
bread- crumbed  over,  and  put  in  the  oven,  and  are  very  nice. 
Or  they  can  be  treated  in  every  v/ay  like  turnips. 

278.  Turnips, — Peel  them,  and  boil  in  plenty  of  water,  in 
which  has  been  put  some  salt ;  boil  till  tender,  and  serve  either 
whole,  or  mashed.  If  mashed,  they  should  be  put  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  or  some  milk,  salt,  and  a 
little  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar,  mashed  up  until  rather  dry, 
and  serve. 

A  few  capers  mixed  in  the  mashed  turnip,  is  an  improvement 
!  for  boiled  mutton. 

279.  Swedes. — This  was  a  vegetable  in  very  little  use  for  the 
1  table  until  the  year  of  the  famine  in  Ireland,  when  M.  Soyer 

prepared  it  for  the  viceroy's  table.  It  should  be  treated  in  every 
way  like  turnip,  but  cut  into  quarters  for  boiling.  The  middle 
size  are  only  fit  to  use. 

280.  Carrot — This  root  varies  quite  as  much  as  the  potato ; 
\  some  are  quickly  done,  even  in  twenty  minutes,  and  some  require 
t  two  hours.  Tkey  should  be  scraped,  aixd  boiled  in  water  and 
;  salt ;  served  cut  in  quarters  lengthways. 

281.  Far  snip  and  the  WJiite  Carrot,  —  The  same  as  the 
I  tarrot. 

282.  Bed  and  WTiite  Beet — These  should  be  washed,  Dut 
not  scraped,  and  put  into  the  pot  with  the  skin  on ;  when  done, 

\  which  is  known  by  pressing  the  thick  part,  to  see  if  it  is  soft, 
or  by  probing  it  with  a  skewer ;  remove  the  skin,  cut  it  into 
slices,  put  it  in  a  pan,  with  either  gravy,  butter,  or  milk,  and  a 
little  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper,  boil  it  up.  and  serv«      It  is  -'^Iso 

\.  good  wbftn  cold,  for  salads. 


110  VEGETABLES?. 


FIKST  MKD  GENEI^AL  LESSOIN'  IK  THE  COOKING  OJB 

ALL  KINDS  OF  VEGETABLES. 

283.  Asparagus  is  a  vegetable  between  the  root  and  the  plant; 
and  requires  more  cooking,  like  the  latter.  It  should  be  well 
scraped  at  the  bottom  part,  tie  them  up  in  bundles  of  not  more 
than  twelve  heads,  have  ready  a  pot  of  water,  say  three  quarts  for 
every  hundred  heads,  in  which  you  have  placed  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  if  the  water  is  hard  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
carbonate  of  soda;  if  they  are  a  good  size  boil  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  serve  with  a  slice  of  toasted  bread  under,  and 
melted  butter  separate,  or  cream  sauce  No.  424. 

This,  when  cold,  is  very  good  with  oil  and  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper. 

The  small,  called  sprew,  is  very  excellent  broken  small  in 
clear  soujp, 

284.  Celery. — Dress  like  asparagus,  catting  off  the  green, 
leaving  the  branches  six  inches  long ;  serve  on  toast,  with  melted 
butter  or  brown  gravy  over,  tying  three  or  four  sticks  together. 

Sea  Kale, — Clean  the  root  and  boil  like  asparagus,  and  serve 
the  same  on  toast,  with  either  melted  butter  or  cream  sauce  over. 

285.  Green  Cahhage  and  Savoys. — These  close-leaf  plants 
require  well  washing  and  soaking  in  salt  and  water  before 
Doiling ;  the  stems  should  be  removed,  and  then  boiled  in  half  a 
gallon  of  water,  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  a  little  soda. 
These  proportions  will  do  for  all  vegetables.  If  the  plants  are 
large  they  should  be  cut  in  four. 

286.  Sprouts,  Spring  Greens,  Turnip  Tops,  Sfc. — These 
only  require  washing  before  boiling,  and  boil  till  tender  in  the 
game  quantity  of  water  as  above. 

287.  Stetved  Cabbage  or  Savoys. — Cut  in  thin  slices,  wash, 
drain,  and  boil  till  tender;  drain  them  free  from  water ;  put  inta 
a  clean  pot  two  ounces  of  butter  or  fat,  and  a  little  salt  an(J 
pepper ;  when  hot  add  the  cabbage,  and  stir  it  well  until  nearly 
dry,  then  throw  over  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  keep  stirring,  and 
then  add  a  cupful  of  either  broth,  milk,  or  water  let  boil  ten 
minute:?,  au^^  serve. 


VEGETABLES.  11^* 

288.  Spinach  requires  to  be  well  washed,  and  tKe  stalks 
picked  off;  boil  a  quarter  of  a  sieve  in  the  same  quantity  of 
water  as  above  for  ten  minutes ;  take  out,  drain,  press  with  the 
Hands  or  plate  to  remove  the  water,  and  serve  it  as  plain  greens ; 
or  put  it  on  a  clean  board,  and  chop  it  fine,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  butter  or  fat,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  of  flour,  half  of  pepper ;  place  it  on  the  fire,  with  two 
gills  of  milk  or  broth,  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  with  toast 
round.  More  strong  gravy  may  be  added,  or  even  milk  or  cream. 

289.  Green  JPeas, — This,  of  all  the  pulse  vegetables,  is  th^ 
most  liked,  and  the  most  in  use;  and  perhaps  in  no  country  in 
Europe  can  they  be  obtained  in  the  same  perfection  as  in 
England. 

The  water  should  be  boiling,  and  say  one  quart  of  peas  to 
two  quarts  of  water,  with  the  same  amount  of  salt  as  before ; 
put  the  peas  in,  leave  the  cover  off,  and  boil  till  tender ;  drain, 
and  serve,  with  a  piece  of  butter  put  on  the  dish.  If  mint  or 
savory  is  liked,  add  it  while  boiling. 

290.  Broad  or  Windsor  Beans, — The  appearance  of  this 
vegetable  is  generally  spoiled  because  it  is  boiled  with  a  piece  of 
bacon ;  they  ought  to  be  boiled  alone  like  the  peas,  and  very 
fast,  and  if  young  do  not  take  longer.  They  should  be  served 
with  parsley  and  butter.  When  the  skin  is  wrinkled  they  are 
done. 

291.  French  and  Kidney  Beans, — Head,  tail,  and  string 
them ;  cut  them  down  in  thin  strips,  or  in  the  middle,  throw 
them  into  boiling  water,  in  which  a  little  more  salt  than  usual 
has  been  put ;  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve  either  plain  or 
with  parsley  and  butter,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

These  are  skins  of  the  pulse,  and  are  considered  exceedingly 
wholesome  for  persons  who  take  much  exercise,  and  eat  freely  of 
animal  food ;  they  purify  the  salt  of  the  blood, 

292.  Brocoli  and  Cauliflower  should  be  put  in  salt  and 
water  some  time  before  cooking,  and  require  olose  examination 
that  no  insects  are  inside ;  cut  oif  the  root  and  the  large  leaves  / 
tney  should  be  boiled  in  boiling  water,  and  will  take  about  ten 
rmnutes.  There  are  a  variety  of  ways  of  using  these  vegetables, 
but  in  general  a  little  too  complicated  for  our  work. 


llir  VEGETABLES. 

293.  Calif  0  wer  and  Brocoli,  witli  Cheese  8auce» — Boil  two 

or  three  middle-sized  cauliflowers,  make  half  a  pint  of  thick 
melted  butter,  adding  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  if  handy,  grate 
four  ounces  of  good  cheese,  Cheshire  preferable ;  mix  this  well 
with  the  sauce,  and  when  boiling  pour  over  the  cauliflower  or 
brocoli;  set  either  in  an  oven  or  before  the  fire  for  fifteen 
minutes,  until  it  gets  brown ;  the  yolk  of  an  egg  may  be  added ; 
bread-crumb  over,  and  serve.  If  no  grater,  cut  your  cheese  fine, 
it  will  melt  in  boiling. 

Jerusalem  artichokes,  Scotch  kail,  and  Brussels  sprouts,  are 
also  very  nice  done  this  way. 


PLANT  CALLED  THE  THOUSAND  HEADS. 

On  seeing  this  plant  growing  in  great  abundance  in  Yorkshire,  1 
inquired  of  the  farmer  on  whose  land  they  were — if  they  were  a 
vegetable  for  the  table,  and  their  name  ?  when  he  informed  me  that 
they  were  intended  for  spring  feeding  for  sheep,  during  the  lambing 
season;  that  he  never  used  them  as  human  food.  I  asked  him 
to  let  me  have  some  to  try  and  see  how  they  eat.  He  did,  and 
I  cooked  them  like  greens;  and  an  exceeding  nice  vegetable  they 
are.  They  are  also  good  stewed,  and  cooked  with  a  piece  of  bacon. 
As  they  grow  at  a  time  of  the  year  when  other  green  vegetables  are 
scarce,  I  consider  them  a  valuable  article  of  food.  They  are  sown 
about  April,  the  small  plant  put  out  about  October,  and  planted  about 
three  feet  apart,  and  by  March  or  April  the  whole  field  will  be  one 
luxuriant  crop  of  greens. 

Farmers  in  the  vicinity  of  large  towns  would  do  well  to  undertake 
their  cultivation,  as  they  would  find  a  ready  sale  in  all  such  places. 
At  that  time  of  year  they  are  in  full  bloom,  and  are  called  by  the 
above  singular  name  in  consequence  of  the  thousands  of  heads  con- 
tinually sprouting  fi'om  their  root.  The  plant  covers  nearly  one  yard 
in  circumference,  and  bears  no  resemblance  to  any  other  green  I 
recollect  seeing,  not  even  to  Brussels  sprouts. 

294.  Saricots  and  Lentils. — No  receipt  is  more  simple,  or 
easier  done,  tlian  any  of  these  vegetables ;  there  is  hardly  a  cot- 
tage in  France  but  what  has  them  in  stock,  as  they  wiU  keep 
good  for  years. 

Should  you  be  short  of  potatoes,  or  supposing  they  are  expen- 
sive, or  even  as  a  change,  some  of  these  are  an  excellent  sub- 
stitute ;  one  quart  will  m^ke,  when  cooked,  four  pounds  of  solid 
food. 


YEGETABLIf,  113 

Haricots,  plain  boiled,  should  be  first  was6e5,  tben  put  into  the 
Mack  iron  pot  one  quart  of  them,  with  four  quarts  of  cold  water, 
one  ounce  of  butter  or  fat ;  boil  them  gently  for  three  hours,  or 
i'lll  tender ;  the  water  will  be  nearly  absorbed,  if  the  haricots 
are  good;  draw  off  the  remainder;  mix  in  a  pint  of  it  three 
teaspoonsful  of  flour,  half  ditto  of  pepper,  add  it  to  the  haricots; 
ho'J.  for  ten  minutes,  keep  stirring,  and  serve,  adding  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt ;  an  ounce  of  butter  is  an  improvement. 

A  little  meat  of  any  kind  may  be  cooked  with  them,  just  the 
tame  as  dried  peas,  only  these  are  to  be  eaten  whole,  and  four 
Quions  in  slices,  fried,  may  be  added  with  the  seasoning,  v/hen 
the  haricots  or  lentils  are  nearly  cooked.  The  broth,  if  ample, 
when  strained  from  them,  may  be  used  as  soup,  with  bread  in  it. 

295.  Lentils. — Wash  them  as  haricots,  and  cook  them  as 
I  Buch,  putting  them  in  cold  water ;  they  will  not  take  so  long, 

I  but  try  when  tender.     Meat  is  exceedingly  good  boiled  with 
[  fchem,  and  they  make  good  soup. 

These  make  an  excellent  salad,  both  in  winter  and  summer. 
See  Index. 

The  liquor  of  either  makes  a  nutritious  soup,  by  adding  fried 
:  onions,  a  little  flour,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  poured  over  bread 
j  previously  sliced  and  put  in  a  soup  basin. 

I  herewith  send  you  the  receipt  I  promised  you  on  Nettles,  which 

I I  tried  while  in  Norfolk. 

296.  Nettles. — Wash  them  well,  drain,  put  them  into  plenty 
( of  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt,  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  or  a 
I  little  longer,  drain  them,  put  them  on  a  board  and  chop  them 
I  up,  and  either  serve  plain,  or  put  them  in  the  pan  with  a  little 
\  salt,  pepper,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  or  a  little  fat  and  gravy  from  a 
I  roast;  or  add  to  a  pound  two  teapoonsfuls  of  flour,  a  gill  of 
t  skim  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  serve  with  or  without 
j  poached  eggs. 

This  extraordinary  spring  production,  of  which  few  know  the 
I  ralue,  is  at  once  pleasing  to  the  sight,  easy  of  digestion,  and  at 
I  a  time  oi  the  year  when  greens  are  not  to  be  obtained,  invaluable 
I  as  a  purifier  of  the  blood ;  the  only  fault  is,  as  I  have  told  you 
I  above,  Eloise,  they  are  to  be  had  for  nothing  i  it  is  a  pity  that 
^  dildren  are  not  employed  to  pick  them,  and  sell  them  in  market 
(towns* 


114  VEGETABLES. 

Another  unused  vegetable  is  mangel  wurze\.  I'lie  young  leal 
of  the  mangel  wurzel,  cleaned  and  cooked  as  above,  is  extremely 
good* 

In  all  my  various  visits  to  cottages  during  this  spring,  I 
have  found  but  one  where  either  of  the  above  vegetables  were  in 
use,  and  that  belonging  to  a  gardener,  who  knew  their  value. 

These  nettles  are  good  during  five  months  of  the  year ;  for 
even  when  large,  the  tops  are  tender.  They  make  excellent  tea, 
which  is  very  refreshing  and  wholesome.* 

296a. — Sweet  Docks,  also  a  wild  vegetable,  or  weed,  are  very 
good  when  done  as  follows,  using  about  two-thirds  of  sweet  dock, 
and  one-third  of  nettles,  boiled  with  a  little  carbonate  of  soda, 
"When  done,  strain  them,  and  to  about  one  pint  basin  full,  add  one 
onion  sliced  and  fried,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  little  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt ;  put  into  a  stewpan  on  the  fire,  stir,  and  gradually  add 
a  handful  of  oatmeal ;  when  you  think  the  meal  has  been  suffi- 
ciently boiled,  dish  up  and  serve  as  a  vegetable. 

297.  Large  Dry  Green  Teas. — One  quart  of  peas,  soak  for 
twelve  hours ;  put  into  a  pan  with  one  gallon  of  water,  some 
fat,  six  sliced  onions,  one  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  one  of 
pepper;  simmer  for  two  or  three  hours,  or  till  tender,  drain 
the  peas,  then  add  to  them  half  a  pound  of  flour,  mixed  in  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter;  boil  twenty  minutes;  serve  with  bacon  over. 

Small  dumplings  may  be  boiled  in  it ;  they  will  take  half  an 
hour. 

298.  Fried  Potatoes. — Peel  a  pound  of  potatoes,  cut  them 
into  very  thin  slices,  almost  shavings;  put  some  fat  into  a 
frying-pan  :  when  very  hot,  but  not  burning,  throw  the  slices  in, 
not  too  many  at  a  time,  as  they  will  stick  together ;  move  them 
about  with  a  skimmer,  to  prevent  it.  When  a  nice  brown  colour, 
take  them  out,  and  sprinkle  some  salt  over;  serve  them  up 
separate,  or  over  broiled  meat.  Two  inches  of  fat  ought  to  be 
in  the  pan. 

299.  Fried  Coolced  Potatoes. — Let  the  fat  in  your  frying« 
pan  be  about  two  inches  deep ;  when  smoking  hot,  add  in  five 
or  six  potatoes,  cut  crossways  in  thin  slices,  letting  them  bf 


*  The  best  v/ay  to  pick  nettles  is  to  quickly  grasp  a  handful,  fc'j 
doing  which  you  feel  no  sensation  of  pain,  or  by  wearing^  glovew. 


EGGS.  il5 

previously  (Ined  in  a  cloth  ;  stii-  with  a  spoon ;  it  will  take  about 
ten  minutes  to  do  tliem  crisp ;  take  them  out,  drain  and  dish 
Ihem,  sprinkling  a  little  salt  over. 

EGGS. 

These,  from  the  earliest  records  we  have,  have  always  been  s 
favourite  food,  with  the  exception  of  a  short  time  in  Greece,  where 
a  few  philosophers  endeavoured  to  make  the  people  refrain  from 
eating  them,  as  they  stated  that  they  contained  the  four  elements  of 
the  world.* 

They  are  a  nutritious  food,  wholesome  in  every  way,  except  when 
boiled  too  hard;  although  there  are  some  stomachs  which  reject 
them.  They  can  be  employed  in  almost  every  dish  with  advantage, 
and  one  weighing  two  ounces  contains  nearly  the  same  amount  of 
nourishment  as  an  ounce  of  meat  and  an  ounce  of  hread ;  therefore 
when  eggs  are  eighteen  for  a  shilling,  equal  to  two  pounds  four 
ounces,  they  are  not  a  very  dear  article  of  food. 

300.  To  ascertain  that  they  are  good  and  fresh,  candle  them,  as  it  is 
called ;  that  is,  hold  them  upright  hetween  the  thumh  and  finger  of 
the  right  hand  before  a  candle,  and  with  the  left  hand  shade  the  eye, 
by  which  means  you  will  be  enabled  to  detect  any  spots  that  may  be 
in  them ;  if  a  few  white  spots  only,  they  will  do  for  puddings,  &c. ;  if 
a  black  one,  throw  it  away,  as  it  is  perfectly  bad.  If  light  and 
transparent,  they  are  fresh. 

301.  I^^ffs  Plain  Boiled. — This  is  the  most  simple  of  all  things 
to  cook,  and  yet  is  the  least  attended  to ;  and  I  am  never  surprised. 


-  *  Singular  Ideas  of  the  Ancients  in  relation  to  JS'^/j',?.— Orpheus, 
Pythagoras,  and  their  sectators — good  and  humane  people  as  ever 
lived — unceasingly  recommended  in  their  discourses  to  abstain  from 
eggs,  in  order  not  to  destroy  a  germ  which  nature  had  destined  for 
the  production  of  chicken.  Many  allowed  themselves  to  be  persuaded, 
and  would  have  believed  it  an  unpardonable  crime  if  they  had  eaten 
a  tiny  omelette^  or  boiled  eggs.  Many  of  the  most  learned  philoso- 
phers held  eggs  in  a  kind  of  respect  approaching  to  veneration, 
because  they  saw  in  them  the  emblem  of  the  world  and  the  four 
elements.  The  shell,  they  said,  represented  the  earth ;  the  white, 
water ;  the  yollt,  fire ;  and  air  was  found  under  the  shell. 

The  shepherds  of  Egypt  had  a  singular  manner  of  cooking  eggs 
j^ithout  the  aid  of  fire :  they  placed  them  m  a  sling,  which  they 
lurned  so  rapidly  that  the  friction  of  the  air  heated  them  to  the 
exact  point  required  for  VJ£» — ^v^jefs  Fantro^heoti, 


116  EGGa 

wlien  I  am  travelling,  to  find  tlie  eggs  either  too  much  or  too  little 
done.  They  will  not  take  the  trouble  to  distinguish  a  lai-ge  one  from 
a  small  one.  Whilst  some  weigh  only  an  ounce  and  a  half,  others 
weigh  two  and  a  half;  but  as  that  is  a  whim  of  natui'e,  and  the 
servants  are  so  fond  of  attending  to  other  frolics,  they  will  not  see 
the  difference  in  this ;  but  as  all  cookery  books  say  three  minutes, 
^nd  the  mistress  has  told  them  the  same,  they  are  right,  and  she  is 
wrong.  From  two  and  a  half  to  four  minutes,  according  to  size,  is 
the  time  they  will  take.  Ten  minutes  is  sufficient  to  set  an  egg 
hard,  not  thirty,  or  more,  as  some  persons  do  by  neglect. 

You  know,  my  dear  Eloise,  how  fidgety  I  am  about  such  trifles. 
I  have,  therefore,  invented  a  cooking  clock,  with  very  distinctly 
marked  time ;  the  hand  is  pushed  back  to  any  time  named,  and  at 
the  tim.e  required  the  bell  strikes,  I  mean  to  adopt  it  for  general 
kitchen  use  for  all  dishes,  from  an  egg  to  a  heavy  joint.  See  Ap- 
pendix. 

302.  To  Boil  Eggs, — Put  a  pint  of  water  into  a  small  pan ; 
•when  boilmg,  put  two  eggs  in,  and  boil  according  to  size — as  I 
have  before  said,  from  two  and  a  half  to  four  minutes.  Fresh- 
iaid  eggs  will  not  take  so  long,  and  if  only  just  set,  are  excellent 
for  clearing  the  voice. 

303. — To  boil  them  for  toast,  they  require  six  minutes ;  take 
them  out,  throw  them  in  cold  water,  remove  the  shell,  and  cut 
them  into  slices ;  put  them  on  the  buttered  toast,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  serve.  These  are  excellent  with  a  little  ketchup 
put  on  the  eggs,  then  bread-crumbed,  salamandered  over,  and 
serve. 

304.  Baked  JEggs. — Put  half  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  small 
tin  pan ;  break  four  eggs  in  it,  keeping  the  yolks  whole,  throw 
a  little  pepper  and  bits  of  butter  and  salt  over ;  put  in  the  oven, 
or  before  the  fire,  till  set,  aasJ  serve.  They  will  take  about  six 
minutes  doing. 

305.  JPoacJied  JEggs.'^'Bni  in  a  small  pan  half  a  pint  oi 
water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  of  vinegar ;  when  boiliBjj, 
break  carefully  in  the  pan  two  nice  eggs,  simmer  for  fom 
minutes,  or  till  firm,  but  not  hard  i  serve  either  on  toast  or  fried 
bacon,  or  ham,  or  spinach,  and  on  any  minced  and  seasoned 
vegetable. 

306.  Mired  Eggs. — Break  four  eggs  into  a  frying-pan,  in 
which  you  have  put  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 


VARIOUS   OMELETTES.  117 

set  it  on  the  fire,  stir  round  with  a  wooden  spoon  very  qui^ljlT, 
to  prevent  sticking  to  the  pan ;  when  ail  set,  serve  either  on 
toast  or  dish.  Fried  hacon  cut  in  dice,  a  little  chopped  onions, 
Dr  mushrooms,  or  a  iiitle  sprew  grass,  well  boiled,  may  be  added 
to  the  above. 

307.  Eggs  and  Bacon. — Cut  some  bacon  very  thin,  put  into 
a  frying-pan  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  or  fat,  lay  the  bacon  in  it ; 
when  fried  on  one  side,  turn  over,  and  break  one  Qg^  on  each 
piece ;  when  the  eggs  are  set,  put  the  slice  under  the  bacon,  and 
remove  them  gently  into  a  dish.     Ham  may  be  done  the  same. 

308.  JEggs,  Convent  FasJiion.  —  Boil  four  eggs  for  ten 
minutes,  put  them  in  cold  water,  peel  and  slice  thin  one  onion, 
put  into  a  frying-pan  one  ounce  of  butter ;  wL^n  melted,  add  the 
onion,  and  fry  white,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  mix  it  well^ 
add  about  half  a  pint  of  milk,  till  forming  a  nice  white  sauce, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  ditto  of  pepper ;  when 
nicely  done,  add  the  eggs,  cut  into  six  pieces  each,  crossways ; 
toss  them  up ;  when  hot  through,  serve  on  toast. 

309.  Eggs  and  Sausages. — Boil  four  sausages  for  five 
minutes,  when  half  cold  cut  them  in  half  lengthways,  put  a  little 
butter  or  fat  in  frying-pan,   and   put  the  sausages  in  and  fry 

f  gently,  break  four  eggs  into  pan,  cook  gently,  and  serve.     Eaw 
sausages  will  do  as  well,  only  keep  them  whole,  and  cook  slowly* 

Omelettes  or  Fraise, 

Where  is  the  man  or  woman  cook  but  says  they  know  how  ta 
imake  an  omelette,  and  that  to  perfection?  But  this  is  rarely 
tthe  case.  It  is  related  of  Sarah,  the  Duchess  of  Marlborough,  that 
mo  one  could  cook  a  fraise,  as  it  was  then  called,  for  the  great  duke 
bbut  herself. 

The  great  point  is,  if  in  an  iron  pan,  it  should  be  very  clean  and 
fifree  from  damp,  which  sometimes  comes  out  of  the  iron  when  placed 
oon  the  fire.  The  best  plan  is  to  put  it  on  the  fire,  with  a  little  fat, 
land  let  it  get  quite  hot,  or  until  the  fat  burns ;  remove  \t,  and  wipe 
itit  clean  with  a  dry  cloth,  and  then  you  will  be  able  to  make  the 
ot)melette  to  perfection. 

310.  Omelettes, — Break  four  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  half  a  tea- 
8||Spoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter  ditto  of  pepper,  beat  them  up  well 
nwith  a  fork,  put  into  the  frying-pan  one  ounce  and  a  half  o! 
fnkitter,  lard,  or  oil,  which  put  on  the  fire  until  hot ;  theu  pour  \r 


lib  TAKIOUS   OMELETTES. 

llio  eggn,  wliicli  keep  on  mixing  quick  witli  a  spoon  until  all  is 
delicately  set ;  then  let  them  slip  to  the  edge  of  the  pan,  laying 
hold  by  the  handle,  and  raising  it  slantways,  which  will  give  an 
elongated  form  to  the  omelette ;  turn  in  the  edges,  let  it  set  a 
moment,  and  turn  it  over  on  to  a  dish,  and  serve. 

It  ought  to  be  a  nice  yellow  colour,  done  to  a  nicety,  and 
as  light  and  delicate  as  possible.  It  may  be  served  in  many 
ivays,  but  some  of  the  following  are  the  most  common: — two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  an  ounce  of  the  crumb  of  bread  cut 
in  thin,  slices,  may  be  added. 

311.  Omelettes  tvith  Herbs. — Proceed  as  above,  adding  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  half  ditto  of  chopped  onions  or 
chives,  or  a  little  eschalot ;  salt  and  pepper,  and  semi-fiy  as  above. 

312.  Bacon  Omelette. — Cut  one  ounce  of  bacon  into  small 
iice,  fry  in  a  little  fatj  when  done,  add  the  eggs,  and  proceed  as 
above. 

Ham,  if  raw,  do  the  same  as  bacon ;  if  cooked,  cut  in  dice,  put 
in  the  eggs,  and  proceed  as  before. 

313.  Omelettes. — Oysters,  mussels,  periwinkles,  or  shrimps. 
When  the  omelette  is  nearly  done,  add  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of 
either  of  these  sauces  in  the  centre ;  turn  the  omelette,  and  serve. 
For  the  above,  see  Fish  Sauces. 

Any  cooked  vegetables,  as  peas,  sprew,  &c.  <fec.,  may  be  used 
in  omelettes. 

314.  Stveet  Ojnelettes. — ^Beat  four  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
beat  them  well  up ;  put  some  nice  butter  into  pan,  put  in  the 
eggs,  and  fry  as  before  described.     Serve  with  sugar  sifted  over, 

dldiA,  Preserve  Omelettes, — When  the  omelette  is  nearly  done» 
put  in  the  middle  some  preserve  of  any  kind,  turn  it  over  oa 
plate,  and  serve  with  sugar  over. 

315.  Omelettes  with  Sjpirit. — These  are  the  above  omelettes; 
serve  with  spirit  round  them,  and  set  on  fii'e  when  going  t^J  | 
table.     Eum  is  generally  preferred. 


PASTBT,  119 


ON  PASTRY. 

One  of  the  oldest  and  most  current  modes  of  cooking,  either  by  mixing 
oil  or  butter  with  the  flour,  sweetened,  scented,  or  flavoured,  according 
to  the  fancy  of  the  cook,  is  pastry.  The  Romans  had  their  peculiai 
cakes  of  paste,  the  Egyptians  had  theirs ;  in  fact,  all  countries  have, 
during  the  periods  of  the  greatest  prosperity,  endeavoured  to  add  to 
the  number  of  their  luxuries  new  modes  of  making  paste.  With 
none  of  these  have  we,  at  the  present  moment,  anything  to  do ;  our 
iask  is  to  show  how  paste  can  be  made  to  suit  everybody. 

My  excellent  Eloise,  I  think  you  are  wrong,  for  once,  in  proposing 
that  I  should  give  various  receipts  for  sweet  pastry.  I  know  you 
possess  a  sweet  tooth,  but  let  those  who  require  first-class  sweet 
dishes,  purchase  our  "  Modern  Housewife  ;'*  no  doubt  their  pocket  is 
equal  to  their  taste ;  at  any  rate,  the  few  I  nov/  give  will,  if  properly 
made  by  a  person  of  taste,  lead  them  ^o  do  others  that  might  vie  with 
the  most  expensive  dishes. 

The  following  receipts  will  be  continually  referred  to,  therefore 
t  they  ought  to  be  made  with  care. 

315a.  Tuff  Taste. — Put  one  pound  of  iloar  upon  your  pastry 

slab,  make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  in  which  put  a  teaspoonful  of 

salt,  mix  it  with  cold  water  into  a  softii^h  flexible  paste  with  the 

right  hand,  dry  it  off  a  little  with  flous.-  until  you  have  well 

'  cleared  the  paste  from  the  slab,  but  do  not  work  it  more  than 

you  can  possibly  help;  let  remain  two  minutes  lipon  the  slab, 

then  have  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  from  which  you  have  squeezed 

all  the  buttermilk  in  a  cloth,  bringing  it  to  the  same  consistency 

as  the  paste,  upon  which  place  it ;  press  it  out  flat  with  the 

hand,  then  fold  over  the  edges  of  the  paste  so  as  to  hide  the 

'  butter,    and   roll  it  with    the  rolling-pin  to  the  thickness    of 

half  an  inch,  thus  making  it  about  two  feet  in  length ;  fold  over 

one  third,  over  which  again  pass  the  rolling-pin ;  then  fold  over 

1  the  other  third,  thus  forming  a  square,  place  it  with  the  ends 

1  top  and  bottom  before  you,  shaking  a  little  flour  both  under  and 

I  over,  and  repeat  the  rolls  and  turns  twice  again  as  before ;  flour 

;  a  baking-sheet,  upon  which  lay  it,  upon  ice,  if  handy,  or  in  soma 

( cool  place,  for  half  an  hour ;  then  roll  twice  more,  turning  it  as 

i  before,  plao3  again  upon  the  ice  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  give  ifc 

t  fcwo  more  rolls,  making  seven  in  all,  and  it  is  ready  for  use, 

jas  directed  in  the  following  receipts.     You  must  continually 

» Rdd  enough  flour  whil^  rolHcg  to  prevent  your  pasta  sticking  to 

tthe  slab, 


120  PASTRY. 

Wlifiii  I  state  that  upwards  of  a  hundred  different  kinds  of 
aikes  may  be  made  from  this  paste  and  the  following,  I 
im  sure  it  will  be  quite  sufficient  to  lu'ge  u^^^n  every  cook  the 
necessity  of  paying  every  attention  to  their  fabrication,  as  it  will 
well  repay  for  the  study  and  trouble.  One  fourth  of  this  quantity 
.nay  be  made. 

316.  Half'jpuff  Taste. — Put  on  the  dresser  or  table  one 
pound  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  ounces  of  butter, 
mix  all  together,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  water,  or  little  more  ; 
form  a  softish  paste,  do  not  work  it  too  much  with  the  hand,  or  it 
will  make  it  hard  and  tough ;  throw  some  more  flour  lightly  over 
and  under,  roll  it  out  with  a  rolling-pin  half  an  inch  thick,  about 
a  foot  long ;  then  have  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  equally  as 
stiff  as  the  paste,  break  it  into  small  pieces,  and  put  it  on  the 
paste ;  throw  a  little  more  flour  on  it,  and  fold  it  over  in  two 
folds,  throw  some  more  flour  on  the  slab,  roll  it  out  three  or 
four  times,  letting  it  rest  between  each  two  rolls,  and  it  is  then 
ready  for  use. 

It  can  be  made  with  lard  instead  of  butter. 
The  yolk  of  an  o^^^,  or  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  added  to  the 
water,  makes  it  lighter. 

316a.  Half  batter  and  half  lard  may  be  used,  or  if  butter  is  too 
dear,  use  all  lard;  if  neither,  mix  well  with  the  flour  two 
ounces  of  dripping,  no  salt,  lay  it  on  the  board,  and  mix  half  a 
pint  of  water,  till  a  softish  paste ;  roU  it  out,  then  chop  a  quarts? 
of  a  pound  of  good  beef  suet  very  fine,  mix  with  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  good  dripping,  free  from  water  or  gravy,  roll  out  the 
paste,  and  add  the  dripping  and  suet  as  preceding  receipt. 

317.  Plainer  Pa^te,  for  Meat  Pies. — Put  into  a  pan  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  dripping,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  rub  all  well  together  for  about  three  minutes,  add  by 
degrees  half  a  pint  of  water,  mix  the  paste  well ;  it  requires  to  ba 
rather  hard;  throw  some  flour  on  the  board,  roll,  and  use  it 
instead  of  pufl*  paste ;  three,  or  even  two  ounces,  of  dripping  will 
be  enough  where  economy  is  required,  or  many  children  to  feed. 

Where  the  cottager  has  a  small  garden,  in  which  he  can 
grow  a  few  herbs,  which  I  have  already  recommended,  then 
introduce  in  the  paste  a  little  chopped  parsley  or  eschalot,  a  very 
small  piece  of  winter  savory  or  thyme,  or  bayleaf  chopped  fine  • 
these  herbs  cost  little^  and  are  at  once  relishing,  refreshing,  anci  , 
wholeson^e  -•  I 


PASTHY.  121 

By  the  same  rule  the  same  paste  will  do  for  fruit  pies,  mixed 
with  a  little  grated  lemon  or  orange-peel,  with  the  addition  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

318.  S/io7't  paste. — Put  on  a  slab  or  board  a  pound  of  flour^ 
two  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  or  whitey-brown,  six  ounces  ol 
butter,  one  egg,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  pint  of  water, 
mix  sugar  and  butter  well  together,  add  it  with  the  water  by 
degrees  to  the  flour,  and  form  a  nice  paste,  but  firmer  than  puff- 
paste  ;  use  where  described. 

In  a  farm-house,  for  a  treat,  they  use  cream  to  make  tliia 
paste. 

319.  Pudding  Paste.  —  1st  Class  Paste.  Put  on  a  slab, 
table,  board,  or  basin,  one  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of 
beef  or  mutton  suet,  chopped  rather  fine — the  first  is  prefer- 
able— form  a  well  with  your  hand  in  the  centre  of  the  flour,  add 
the  suet,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  of  pepper ;  moisten  all  with 
water,  working  the  flour  in  by  degrees,  till  it  forms  a  stiff  paste ; 
work  it  well  for  two  minutes,  throw  a  little  flour  on  the  slab, 
with  the  paste  on  it ;  let  it  remain  five  minutes,  then  roll  it  out 
to  any  thickness  you  like.  This  will  be  referred  to  very  often, 
therefore  pay  particular  attention  to  it,  and  give  it  an  important 
place  in  the  book.  For  savoury  pudding,  I  sometimes  vary  the 
flavour,  by  adding  a  little  chopped  parsley,  or  a  little  onion,  or 
thyme,  or  mushrooms  in  it. 

2nd  Class  Paste.  Proceed  the  same  way,  putting  only  six 
ounces  of  suet. 

3rd  Class  Paste.     The  same,  with  four  ounces. 

4th  Class  Paste.     The  same,  with  four  ounces  of  dripping. 

Lamb,  veal,  and  pork  fat,  may  be  used ;  but  as  they  do  not  cliop 
!  60  floury,  the  paste  is  heavier.  But  they  can  be  used  for  baked 
]  puddings,  which  I  have  introduced  at  page  102  in  that  series. 

320.  Fruit  Tart,  French  fashion. — This  requires  a  mould 
(  or  a  tin  pan ;  it  must  be  well  wiped  with  a  cloth,  butter  it,  then 
'  take  the  remains  of  half  puff  paste,  and  roll  it  well  so  as  to  deaden 
i  it,  then  roll  it  out  a  size  larger  than  your  mould,  and  about  a 
(  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  place  jowc  mould  on  a  baking-tin,  put 
\  the  paste  carefully  in  the  mould  and  shape  it  well,  to  obtain  all 
t  the  form  of  the  mould,  without  making  a  hole  in  the  paste;  put  a 
t  piece  of  paper  at  th^  bottom,  fill  with  ^'-uit  to  the  tojj,  and  b^9 


122  PASTRY. 

&  nice  colour ;  it  will  take  about  half  an  hour  haking  with  an;^ 
fruit  in  season;  put  plenty  of  sugar  over,  according  to  thg 
acidity  of  the  fruit. 

321.  AnotJier, — If  you  have  no  rnouid,  make  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  paste  (No.  318),  roll  ifc  round  or  oval  to  your  fancy,  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  wet  the  edge  all  round  about  half  an 
inch,  raise  that  part,  and  pinch  it  with  your  thumb  and  fingers, 
making  a  border  all  round,  put  on  a  baking-sheet,  fill  it  with 
one  row  of  fruit  if  large,  two  rows  if  small ;  remove  the  stones, 
and  sift  sugar  over  according  to  the  acidity  of  the  fruit ;  it  will 
take  less  time,  too,  than  if  in  a  mould :  You  see  what  variation 
uan  be  made  with  very  little  trouble  or  expense. 

322.  Small  'Pastry. — Make  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  half  puif 
paste  (No.  318),  roll  it  to  a  thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch, 
{jut  five  or  six  pieces  out  with  the  rim  of  a  tumbler ;  put  each 
piece  in  a  separate  tin,  shape  it  well  in  forming  a  nice  thin  rim 
round  the  %^^q^  with  your  finger  and  thumb,  three  parts  fill  with 
either  jam,  stewed  fruit,  sweetmeats,  custard,  pastry,  or  cream, 
bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes  j  dish  up  in  pyra- 
mids, and  serve.     See  Index. 

323.  Little  Fruit  Rissoleties. — I  also  make  with  the  trim- 
mings of  puff  paste  the  following  little  cakes :  if  you  have  about 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  puff  paste  left,  roll  it  out  very  thin, 
about  the  thickness  of  half  a  crown,  put  half  a  spoonful  of  any 
marmalade  on  it,  about  one  inch  and  a  half  distance  from  each 
other,  wet  lightly  round  them  with  a  paste-brush,  and  place  a 
similar  piece  of  paste  over  all,  take  a  cutter  of  the  size  of  a  crown 
piece,  and  press  round  the  part  where  the  marmalade  or  jam  is 
with  the  thick  part  of  the  cutter,  to  make  the  paste  stick,  then 
cut  them  out  with  one  a  size  or  two  larger,  lay  them  on  a 
iaking-tin,  egg  over,  place  in  a  nice  hot  oven  for  twenty 
minutes,  then  sugar  over  with  finely  sifted  sugar,  so  as  to  make 
it  quite  white,  then  put  back  into  the  oven  to  glaze,  and  serve. 

323a,  plain  Puff  Paste  Cake. — Make  half  a  pound  as  No. 
jI15a  ;  when  done,  rcJl  it  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut 
4s  many  pieces  as  you  can  with  the  cutter,  or  with  the  edge  of 
a  glass,  wat  a  baking  sheet,  place  them  on,  Qgg  well  over,  sift 
€cme  fv;i^5.r  QSi  each,  bakj3  .from  ^^si  to  twelve  minutes,  anr 
serve. 


PASTRt.  123 

324.  Orange  and  Almond  Calces. — Proceed  as  alDOve,  but  lay 
orange  marmalade  all  over  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  fourovmcea 
of  almonds  cut  into  fillets,  mixed  with  two  ounces  of  s^igar,  and 
the  white  of  two  egg  added  to  it ;  lay  the  almonds  all  over  the 
marmalade,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  cut  in  a  diamond 
shape,  dish  up  on  a  napkin  in  crown  or  pyramid ;  they  ought 
to  be  of  a  nice  transparent  colour.  Apple  or  quince  marmalade 
may  be  used  instead  of  orange. 

325.  Preserve  Cake. — This  style  of  cake  is  esceedinglj 
simple,  and  admits  of  great  variation.     You  must  make  half  a 

I  pound  of  puff  paste  (No.  315a),  take    one    third    of  it    and 

1  roll  it    out  several  times  so   as  to   deaden  it,  then  mould  it 

I  round  with  your  hands  to  the  shape  of  a  ball,  roll  it  out  flat 

1  to  the   thickness    of   a    crown,  lay   it  on  a  baking-sheet,   put 

( on    it   marmalade,    or    any    other   preserve,  a    quarter    of  an 

i  inch   thick,  reserving   about  one   inch  all  round  of  paste    to 

i  fix   the  cover  on,  then  roll   out  the  remainder  of  the  paste 

1  to  the  same  shape,  it  will  of  course  be  thicker ;  wet  the  edges 

(  of  the  bottom,  and  lay  the  cover  on  it ;  press  it  so  that   it 

sticks,  cut  neatly  round  the  edges,  and  make  a  mark  with  the 

back  of  a  knife  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  deep  and  half  an  inch 

apart  all  round;  egg  over,  and  lightly  mark  any  fanciful  design 

with  the  point  of  a  knife  on  the  cover ;  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven 

1  for  twenty   minutes;  when  nearly  done,  sprinkle  some  sugar 

(Over,  frost  it  with  a  hot  shovel,  and  serve  cold. 

326.  Small  Cream  Cake — The  former  one  must  be  made  in 
I  proportion  to  the  dish  you  intend  to  serve  on,  but  the  following 

is  simple,  and  looks  as  v/ell :  Prepare  the  paste  as  before,  but 
rroll  the  bottom  piece  about  a  foot  square,  put  it  on  a  baking- 
sheet,  cover  with  half  an  inch  of  cream  (see  Index),  leaving  one 
i  inch  round  the  edge ;  roll  the  cover  the  same  size,  wet  the  edges, 
iplace  it  over,  trim  them,  mark  it  down  every  three  inchegi,  and 
tthen  crosswise  every  inch;  bake  in  hot  ^ven,  sugar  over,  and 
B  salamander.  When  nearly  cold,  cut  it  where  you  have  marked  it ; 
t  thus,  a  piece  twelve  inches  square  will  give  you  twenty -four  pieces? 
ddish  as  a  crown  or  pyramid.  Twelve  pieces  make  a  nice  dish  for  a 
pparty.  They  may  be  made  of  any  puff  paste  which  is  left^  but 
^will  not  be  m  light  as  if  made  on  purpose ;  can  be  cut  to  any 
fifanciful  shaoe  you  please.    Any  jam  ma^^  be  substituted  for  cream* 


124 


PASTRY. 


327.  Fruit  Crusts. ---Qvii  a  French  penny  roll  lengthwise  i^- 
four  slices,  put  the  yolk  of  one  Qgg  with  four  spoonfuls  of  milkt 
mix  it  in  a  plate,  dip  quickly  each  piece  in  it,  and  saute  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  which  you  have  previously  rnelted 
in  a  frying  pan ;  leave  them  on  the  fire  until  they  have  obtained 
a  nice  gold  colour  on  both  sides ;  put  three  spoonfuls  of  orange 
marmalade  in  a  stevv^pan,  with  two  glasses  of  sherry  or  brandy 
and  place  on  the  fire ;  when  on  the  point  of  boiliLg,  pour  over 
the  bread,  which  you 'have  previously  put  in  a  plate,  and  serve 
very  hot.  Any  preserve  may  be  used,  also  any  white  wine ;  and 
should  you  have  no  French  rolls,  any  fancy  roll  will  do,  or  even 
the  crumb  of  common  bread.     Any  kinds  of  jam  may  be  used. 

Nursery  Dumplings, 

Having,  the  other  evening,  been  invited  to  a  children's  party  at 
Parmer  LaurenCe^s,  near  Oswestry,  and  the  supper  being  composed,  for 
the  most  part,  of  dumplings  of  various  sorts,  so  as  to  please  the  chil- 
dren, I  made  the  following  experiment,  which  proved  quite  sue* 
cessful. 

828. — Greengages  being  very  plentiful,  I  went  and  gathered 
some,  and  made  the  following  fruit  dumplings.  I  made  half  a 
pound  of  paste  (No.  319),  rolled  it  out  rather  thin,  then  cut  a 
piece  round  with  the  rim  of  a  tumbler,  moistened  it,  and  placed 
a  gage  in  the  centre,  adding  a  half  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  inclosed 
all  in  the  paste,  thoroughly  closing  the  rim,  then  placed  on 
the  baking- sheet,  the  smooth  part  uppermost,  and  baked  them 
from  ten  to  twelve  minutes,  serving  them  up  with  sugar.  They 
made  a  beautiful  dish. 

Gooseberries,  rhubarb,  cherries,  and  mulberries,  can  all  be 
done  this  way.     All  kinds  of  plums  can  be  done  the  same. 

829.  Plain  Cheese  Calce. — Put  half  a  pint  of  milk  curds, 
well  drained,  in  a  basin,  add  to  it  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter 
stir  perfectly  smooth,  put  in  three  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
ounce  of  washed  currants,  one  ^.g^,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  any 
flavour  you  like,  as  lemon,  orange,  &c.  &c.  Prepare  your  paste  as 
No.  322,  fill  up  the  tins  with  this?,  bake  the  same,  and  serve. 


PASTRY.  125 


NATIOHAL  EKEXCH  CAKE  OE  GALETTE. 

Deaeest  Eloise, — There  is  one  little  and  perhaps  insignificant 
French  cake,  which  I  feel  certain  would  soon  become  a  favourite  in  the 
cottage,  more  particularly  amongst  its  juvenile  inhabitants.  It  is  the 
famed  galette,  the  melodramatic  food  of  the  gamins,  galopins,  me- 
chanics, and  semi-artists  of  France.  Show  me  one  of  the  above-named 
citizens  who  has  not  tasted  this  irresistible  and  famed  calve,  after 
having  digested  the  best  and  most  sanguinary  melodrama,  from  the 
**  Courier  of  Lyons^'  to  the  "Corsican  Brothers,"'  and  from  the  "  Pilules 
du  Diable"  to  the  "  Seven  Wonders  of  the  World,"'  after  having 
paid  their  duty  to  the  elegance  of  the  performance  and  performers,  and 
entirely  forgetting,  as  usual,  the  author,  who  is  supposed  to  live  ili  his 
tomb,  whilst  the  actors  and  artists  are  dead  in  reality.  Settio^  that 
on  one  side,  observe  that  the  last  Seventh  Wonder  is  over,  the  red- 
blue-green  fire  no  longer  required ;  the  scene-shifter  bolts  and  gets  the 
first  cut,  smoking  hot;  then,  also,  rush  the  audience,  full  of  melodrama 
and  anything  but  food,  to*  the  galette-shop,  where  the  'Pere  Coupe^ 
toujours  (Father  Cut-and-come-again)  is  in  full  activity,  taking  the 
money  first,  and  delivering  the  galette  afterwards.  SLx  feet  wide 
by  ten  long  is  the  galette-shop,  and  very  clean,  and  above  ona 
hundred  feet  of  galette  is  sold  in  less  than  one  hour,  at  a  sou  or  two 
the  cut. 

Such  is,  even  in  summer,  the  refreshment  of  the  admu'ers  of  the 
Boulevard  du  Crime. 

Like  everything  which  ha^  its  origin  with  the  million,  it  soon  aims 
to  an  aristocracy  of  feeling,  and  I  was  not  a  httle  surprised,  the  last 
time  I  was  in  Paris,  to  see  a  fashionable  crowd  round  an  elegant 
shop,  close  to  the  Gymnase  Theatre;  on  inquiring  of  a  venerable 
citizen,  who  was  anxiously  waiting,  mth  ten  sous  in  his  hand,  the 
motive  of  such  a  crowd,  he  informed  me  that  he  was  waiting  his 
turn  to  buy  ten  sous  worth  of  galette  du  Gymnase,  which  he  told  me 
was  the  most  celebrated  in  Paris.  He  passed;  and  then  ladies, 
beautifully  dressed,  took  their  turn ;  in  fact,  the  crowd  brought  to 
my  recollection  the  description  of  the  scene  of  the  bread  market  at 
Atliens  (described  in  Soyer's  "  Pantropheon""),  where  the  ladies  of 
fashion  or  the  jpetites  mattresses  of  ancient  Greece  used  to  go  to 
select  the  delicious  puff  cake,  called  flaciteSy  or  the  sweet  melitutes, 
v/hose  exquisite  and  perfumed  flour  was  delicately  kneaded  with  the 
precious  honey  of  Mount  Hymettus,  At  all  events,  I  was  determined 
not  only  to  taste,  b^at  to  procure  the  receipt  if  I  possibly  could ;  and 
as  you  know,  Eloise,  I  seldom  fail,  when  determined,  the  foliovang  is 
a  copy. 

330.  Aristocratic  Galette, — Yvork  ligMly  in  a  basiii  or  on  a 
iatk  cue  poxma  of  flour  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fresh 


126  HES. 

butter ;  add  two  eggs,  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  little  milk  |  if  too 
stiff,  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  of  sugar; 
work  all  well,  to  form  a  good  stiff  paste,  throw  some  fiour  on  the 
table,  mould  the  pastD  round,  roll  it  three  quarters  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  quite  mikkid,  Af  over,  score  it  with  a  knife  in 
diamonds,  or  any  other  shape ;  bake  for  about  half  an  hour  in 
a  rather  hot  oven,  sprinkle  sugar  over  and  serve.  A  pound  of 
either  puff,  No.  315a,  or  half  puff  paste,  ISio.  316,  wiU  make  a 
very  light  galette ;  sugar  ovfr,  arfd  bake  as  above, 

331.  Cottage  Galette. — Put  one  pound  of  flour,  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  six  ounces  of  butter ;  m.oisten  with  milk,  and  bake 
as  above,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

332.  Poor  Mans  Galette, — One  pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  lard,  moisten  with  milk,  or  water ;  proceed  as  above, 
moisten  with  a  little  water  on  the  top,  and  dredge  sugar  over. 
If  no  lard,  use  dripping. 


INTRODLTCTION  TO  PIES,  BOTH  SWEET  AND  SAVOUKY. 

Ko  matter  how  ridiculons  it  may  appear  to  Mrs.  Smith,  or  Mrs. 
Brown,  or  Mrs.  Any-body-else,  do  not  omit  to  give  room  to  the  fol- 
lowing remarks  on  pies.  Never  mind  how  simple  these  remarks 
may  seem  to  you,  the  million  will  understand  tliem  well.  For 
example,  where  is  the  little  boy  or  girl  in  Great  Britain  who  has  not 
eaten  pies  sweet  and  savoury  ?  From  childhood  we  eat  pies — from 
girlhood  to  boyhood  we  eat  pies — from  middle  age  to  old  age  we  eat 
pies — in  fact,  pies  in  England  may  be  considered  as  one  of  our  best 
companions  du  voyage  through  life.  It  is  we  who  leave  them  behind, 
not  they  who  leave  us ;  for  our  children  and  grandchildren  will  be  as 
fond  of  pie  as  we  have  been ;  therefore  if:  is  needful  that  we  should 
learn  how  to  make  them,  and  make  them  well !  Believe  me,  I  am 
not  jesting,  but  if  all  the  spi^f'lt  pies  made  in  London  on  one  single 
Sunday  were  to  be  exhibited  in^^MS^iV  beside  a  railway  line,  it  would 
take  above  an  hour  by  special  train  to  pass  iu  review  these  culinary 
victims;  therefore  see  the  iinportasice  of  the  subject.  If  we  could 
only  rescue  to  proper  standing  half  a  mile  of -pies  and  pie-crust,  I 
think  we  should  deserve  a  piece  of  plate,  or  at  least  a  piece  of  one  o1 
our  disciple's  pies.  ^ 

ILoiD  to  Malce  a  Pid  to  Perfection. — When  your  paste   is 
carefully  made  (No.  316),  or  short  paste  (No.  318),  which  requires 


PIES.  127 

m  more  time  ilian  doing  badly,  and  your  pies  and  tarts  properly 
fall — (this  is  the  last  and  most  important  process  in  pie  and  tart 
making) — throw  a  little  flour  on  your  paste-board,  take  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  your  paste,  which  roll  with  your  hand,  say  an 
inch  in  circumference ;  moisten  the  rim  of  your  pie-dish,  and  fi| 
the  pa^  equally  on  it  with  your  thumb.  When  you  have  rolled 
your  paste  for  the  covering  of  an  equal  thickness,  in  proportion 
to  the  contents  of  yom'  pie  (half  an  inch  is  about  correct  for  the 
above  description),  fold  the  cover  in  two,  lay  on  the  half  of  your 
pie,  turn  the  other  half  over,  press  slightly  with  your  thumb 
round  the  rim,  cut  neatly  the  rim  of  your  paste,  form  rather  a 
thick  edge,  which  mark  with  a  knife  about  every  quarter  of  an  inch 
apart ;  mark,  holding  your  knife  in  a  slanting  direction,  which 
gives  it  a  neat  appearance ;  make  two  small  holes  on  the  top ; 
egg  over  with  a  paste -brush ;  if  no  egg,  use  a  drop  of  milk  or 
water ;  the  remaining  paste  may  be  shaped  to  fanciful  designs 
to  ornament  the  top.  For  meat  pies,  notice,  that  if  your 
paste  is  either  too  thick  or  too  thin,  the  covering  too  narrow  or 
too  short,  and  requires  pulling  one  way  or  the  other,  to  make  it 
fit,  your  pie  is  sure  to  be  imperfect,  the  Ncovering  no  longer 
protecting  the  contents.  It  is  the  same  with  meat ;  -and  if  the 
paste  happens  to  be  rather  rich,  it  pulls  the  rim  of  the  pie  to  the 
dish,  soddens  the  paste,  makes  it  heavj^  and,  therefore,  indi- 
gestible as  well  as  unpalateable.  A  little  practice  and  common 
sense  will  remedy  all  those  little  housewifery  tribulations,  and 
probably  improve  the  appearance  of  this  series  of  dishes. 

333.  Plain  Apple  and  other  Tart. — Peel  and  cut  about  two 
pounds  of  apples.,  sharp  ones  being  the  best  for  the  purpose,  cut 
each  in  four  pieces,  removing  the  cores,  then  cut  each  quarter  in 
two  or  three  pieces,  according  to  size ;  put  half  of  them  in  a  pie- 
dish,  slightly  press  them,  so  that  they  lay  compact ;  put  over 
two  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  then  put  in  the  remaining  apples, 
then  add  another  two  ounces  of  sugar,  making  the  apples  form  a 
kind  of  dome,  the  centre  being  two  inches  higher  than  the 
sides ,  add  a  small  wineglassful  of  water,  cover  the  top  over  with 
paste  No.  318;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  frcLTi  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

All  kinds  of  apples  will,  of  course,  make  tarts,  but  if  the 
apples  be  sweetish  or  too  ripe,  you  need  not  put  in  so  much 
pugar,  but  add  double  the  quantity  of  water  |  in  this  case  the- 


128  SWEET  PUDDINGS. 

addition  of  a  little  juice  of  a  lemon  is  an  improvement  to  vaty 
the  liavour ;  Use  also  a  little  grated  or  chopped  lemon  or  orange- 
peel,  or  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  or  mixed  spice, 
or  four  cloves, 

Green  rhuharh  and  greengages  will  require  a  little  more 
sugar,  adding  nothing  else  hut  the  fruit ;  proceed  as  for  appib* 
tart;  pink  rhuharh  does  not  require  pealing;  ripe  curranti^ 
raspherries,  and  cherries,  also  as  ahove;  plum,  damson,  and 
mulherries  the  same. 


SWEET  PUDDOTGS. 

334.  Plum  JPiidding. — Pick  and  stone  half  a  pound  of 
Malaga  raisins,  wash  and  dry  the  same  quantity  of  currants, 
chop,  not  too  fine,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  heef  suet,  put  it 
in  a  convenient  has  in,  with  six  ounces  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
mixed  candied  peel  sliced,  three  ounces  of  flour,  three  ditto  of 
hread-crumhs,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  four  eggs,  a  gill  of  water, 
or  perhaps  a  little  more,  to  form  a  nice  consistence;  hutter  a 
mould,  put  a  piece  of  white  paper  over  the  top  and  round  the 
Bides,  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  hoil  for  four  hours  in  plenty  of  water ; 
when  done,  remove  the  cloth,  turn  it  out  of  the  mould,  take  the 
paper  off  the  sides  and  top,  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce  round ;  it 
may  also  he  hoiled  in  a  cloth. 

The  ahove  is  only  for  Christmas.     !N"ow  for  every  day. 

Put  into  a  hasin  one  pound  of  flour,  one  of  chopped  suet,  half 
a  pound  of  mixed  fruit,  a  little  spice,  grated  lemon-peel,  three 
ounces  of  ^ugar,  two  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  or  enough  to 
make  it  a  proper  thickness,  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  hoil  four  hours, 
turn  it  out,  and  serve  with  melted  hutter,  or  sv/eet  sauce ;  hread- 
crumhs  instead  of  flour  is  good,  or  half  of  each. 

335.  A  Series  of  Economical  Puddings,  ivhicli  can  he  made 
either  in  a  mould,  hasin,  tart-disli,  or  tin  caTce-pan. — Y/ell 
butter  either,  fill  lightly  with  any  of  the  following  ingredients : 
• — Either  stale  buns,  mufhns,  crumpets,  pastry,  white  or  brown 
bread,  sliced  and  buttered,  the  remains  of  sponge-cakes,  ma- 
caroons, ratafias,  almond  cake,  gingerbread,  biscuit  of  any 
kind,  previously  soaked.  For  a  change  Vvith  any  of  the  above, 
jon  may  intermix  with  either  fresh  or  dried  fruit,  or  preserves, 
even  plums,  grated  cocoa  nut,  &c.     When  your  mould  is  fiill  of 


SWEET  AND   FRUIT   PUDDINGS.  l29 

eiilier  of  the  above,  put  in  a  basin  a  quarter  teaspoonfal  of  eitber 
ginger,  a  little  mixed  spice,  or  cinnamon,  if  handy,  grated 
orange,  lemon,  or  a  few  drops  of  any  essence  you  choose ;  put  in 
tiiree  eggs,  which  beat  well,  add  three  gills  of  milk  i'or  every 
quarter  mould.  When  the  above  is  well  mixed,  fill  up  nearly 
to  the  rim.  It  can  be  either  baked  or  boiled,  or  put  into 
a  saucepan  one -third  full  of  water,  with  the  lid  over,  and  let 
simmer  for  about  one  hour.  Pass  a  knife  round  the  inside  of 
ihe  basin  or  mould,  turn  out  your  pudding,  pour  over  either 
melted  butter  with  a  little  sugar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  spirit 
sauce.  It  ought  to  be  the  pride  of  each  cottager's  wife  to  find 
out  a  peculiar  and  cheap  mixture,  which  would  entirely  depend 
on  the  part  of  the  country  in  which  she  lives,  that  would  be 
liked  by  the  family,  and  give  it  as  a  treat  every  Sunday. 

335a.  Fruit  Puddings. — Such  as  green  gooseberry  is  best  made 
in  a  basin,  the  basin  to  be  buttered  and  lined  with  the  paste,  roll- 
ing it  round  to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch ;  then  get  a  pint  of 
gooseberries  and  three  ounces  of  sugar ;  after  having  made  your 
paste,  take  half  the  fruit,  and  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  your  basin, 
then  add  half  your  sugar,  then  put  the  remainder  of  the 
gooseberries  in  and  the  remainder  of  the  sugar ;  on  that  draw 
your  paste  to  the  centre,  join  the  edges  well  together,  put  the 
cloth  over  the  whole,  tying  it  at  the  bottom,  and  boil  in  plenty 
of  water.  Fruit  puddings,  such  as  apples  and  rhubarb,  should 
be  done  in  this  manner ;  boil  for  an  hour,  take  out  of  the  sauce- 
pan, untie  the  cloth,  turn  out  on  a  dish,  or  let  it  remain  in  the 
basin,  and  serve  with  sugar  over.  A  thin  cover  of  the  paste 
may  be  rolled  round  and  put  over  the  pudding. 

Eipe  cherries,  currants,  raspberries,  greengage,  plums,  and  such 
like  fruit,  will  not  require  so  much  augar,  or  so  long  boiling. 

336.  Curd  Milh  JPudding. — Put  in  a  basin  three  eggs,  a 
little  grated  lemon-peel,  three  ounces  of  currants,  one  pint  of 
curds,  and  one  pound  of  bread-crumbs ;  boil  in  a  cloth  half  an 
hour ;  turn  out  and  serve. 

337.  Cocoa  Nut  Pudding. — Grate  half  a  nut,  add  another  a^^ 
to  the  milk,  mix  with  the  above .  An  ounce  of  flour  may  be  added. 

338.  Plain  Rice  Pudding. — ^Wash  a  quarter  of  a  pcRirid  of 
rice,  put  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  three 
ounces  of  butter,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  lemon-peei,  simmer  till 


150  SWEET  AND  FEUIT  PUDDINGS. 

the  rice  is  tender,  add  two  eggs,  previously  well  beaten,  miJt 

quick,  put  in  pie-disli ;  bake  half  an  hour,  or  till  set, 

339.  Spotted  Dick. — Put  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour 
into  a  basin,  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  half  ditto  of  currants, 
two  ounces  of  sugar,  a  little  cinnamon,  mix  with  two  eggs  ana 
fcwo  gills  of  milk ;  boil  in  either  mould  or  cloth  for  one  hour 
and  a  half;  serve  with  melted  butter,  and  a  little  sugar  over. 

340.  Light  Dough  Dumplings. — Get  one  pound  of  dough, 
make  it  into  small  balls  the  size  of  eggs,  boil  in  plenty  of 
water,  and  use  it  for  roast  or  boiled  meats,  or  serve  with  butter 
and  sugar,  or  with  gravy. 

Tv/o  ounces  of  chopped  suet  added  to  the  above,  or  to  vary 
the  flavour,  add  a  few  currants,  a  little  sugar,  grated  nutmeg,  or 
lemon-peel. 

341.  Apple  and  Paste  Pudding  in  Basin.— Mske  one  j^^ound 
of  paste,  No.  319,  roll  it  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  lay  some  in  a 
bowl,  fill  it  with  apples  cut  in  quarters,  add  two  cloves,  two  ounces 
of  sugar,  a  little  butter,  put  another  piece  of  paste  on  the  top, 
and  join  the  edge  nicely ;  tie  it  in  a  cloth  and  boil.  It  can  be 
served  up  either  in  the  basin  or  turned  out.  Do  not  open  the  top 
to  put  more  sugar  in,  as  it  spoils  the  flavour  and  makes  it  heavy. 

All  Ix  uit  puddings  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

342.  Swet  Pudding. — Put  into  a  basin  half  a  pound  of 
chopped  suet,  a  pound  of  flour,  two  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
quarter  of  pepper,  nearly  half  a  pint  of  water ;  beat  all  well  to- 
gether, put  into  a  cloth  as  above ;  boil  one  hour  and  a  half. 

343.  Dread  Pudding. — An  economical  one,  when  eggs  are 
dear.  Cut  some  bread  and  butter  very  thin,  place  it  in  a 
pie -dish  as  lightly  as  possible,  till  three-parts  full ;  break  into  a 
basin  one  egg,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  three  of  brown  sugar ; 
mix  all  well  together,  add  to  it  by  degrees  a  pint  of  milk,  a 
little  salt  •  pour  over  the  bread ;  bake  in  an  oven ;  it  will  take 
about  half  an  hour :  this  will  make  a  nice  size  pudding  for  four 
or  five  persons. 

This  may  be  done  in  twenty  different  v/ajs,  by  varying  tha 
flavour  of  the  ingredients,  as  lemon -peel,  orange-peel,  nutmeg, 
cinnamon,  or  mixed  spice,  or  essences  of  any  kind. 

Fox  children^  skim-milk,  or  half  milk  and  water,  dates,  OP 


SWEET  AI^D  FEUIT  ■  PUDDINGS*  131 

French  plums,  or  figs,  previously  soaked  and  cut,  may  "be  added  j 
they  are  excellent  for  children. 

S44.  JBrotmi  Bread  'Puddings,  the  same  way. 

344a.  BroJcen  Biscuit  Budding. — These  may  be  bougiit  very 
cheap  at  a  baker's  -,  they  should  be  soaked  in  milk  and  sugar 
the  over  night,  and  proceed  as  above  or  as  !No.  335.  Stale 
sponge  cake  may  be  used  with  them. 

845.  Bice,  Macaroni,  and  Vermicelli  Buddings. — Wash 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  boil  till  tender,  drain  it,  place  it  in 
the  pie-dish  with  any  kind  of  fruit,  and  one  ounce  of  butter,  in 
bits ;  pour  custard  No.  361  or  343  over,  and  bake.  Yermicelli 
and  macaroni  previously  boiled,  may  be  done  the  same. 

346.  The  Same  for  a  Numerous  Family,  or  School.— Two 
pounds  of  boiled  rice,  with  one  pound  of  chopped  suet ;  mix  in 
a  pan  with  four  eggs,  ten  teaspoonfuls  of  flour ;  moisten  v/ith 
five  pints  of  water,  or  skim-milk ;  add  one  pound  of  sugar  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  bake  about  one  hour.  To  vary  it,  a  few 
Smyrna  rasins  may  be  added.  Apples,  or  any  dry  fruit,  may 
be  used,  previously  soaked. 

347.  Lemon  Dumplings. — Chop  the  rind  of  one  lemon  fine, 
add  it  to  the  juice ;  chop  up  half  a  pound  of  suet ;  mix  with  half 
a  pound  of  bread  crumbs  one  Qgg,  enough  milk  or  v/ater  to  make  . 
a  stiff  paste ;  add  the  lemon ;  sweeten  to  taste ;  divide  it  into  five 
equal  parts,  and  boil  in  separate  cloths  for  three-quarters  of  an 

I  hour ;  serve  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  a  little  honey, 

_  347a.  Apple  Dumpling s.—Vqq\  and  take  out  the  cores  of  a 
[large  apple,  cover  it  with  paste  jSIo.  318  or  319,  boil  in  a  cloth, 
or  plainly  bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  butter  and  sugar. 

348.  Another. — Put  into  the  paste  in  making  it,  two  ounces 
r  »f  sugar ;  a  few  sultans,  or  plums,  may  also  be  added,  and  served 

with  sweet  melted  butter  or  spirit  sauce  over. 

349.  A  Simple  Suet  Dumpling. — One  pound  of  flour,  half  a 
pound  of  chopped  suet,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  ditto  of 
pepper ;    moisten    v/ith   water  until   a   stilt   paste :    use  where 

r  required.  They  may  be  rolled  in  small  balls,  ind  may  be  used 
iin  savoury  pies,  hash,  or  ^tews. 


132  SWEET  AND   FRUIT   PUDDINGS. 

350.  !Rice  and  Preserve. — Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  as  No.  463; 
wlien  just  done,  add  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  currant 
jelly,  one  ounce  of  sagar ;  mix  all  well  together  with  a  fork,  and 
serve.  Apple  marmalade,  rhubarb,  cherries,  currants,  and  rasp- 
berry jam,  orange  marmalade,  &c.,  may  be  used,  and  an  immense 
variation  may  be  made.  If  it  is  found  too  thick,  add  some  milk. 
Dish  up  in  pyramids,  and  serve. 

351.  Ground  JRlce  Pudding. — Boil  one  pint  of  milk  with  a 
little  piece  of  lemon  peel ;  mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground 
rice  with  half  a  pint  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  and  one  of 
butter ;  add  this  to  the  boiling  milk ;  keep  stirring,  take  it  off 
the  fire,  break  in  two  eggs,  one  after  the  other;  keep  stirring; 
butter  a  pie- dish,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  until  set.  This 
is  one  of  the  quickest  puddings  that  can  be  made. 

352.  Snow  Rice  Cream. — Put  in  a  stewpan  four  ounces  of 
ground  rice,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  a  few  drops  of  the  essence 
of  almonds,  or  any  other  essence  you  choose,  with  two  ounces  of 
fresh  butter ;  add  a  quart  of  milk,  boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes,  till  it  forms  a  smooth  substance,  though  not  too  thick ; 
then  pour  in  a  mould  previously  oiled,  and  serve  when  cold.  It 
will  turn  out  like  jelly. 

If  no  mould,  put  either  in  cups  or  a  pie-dish.  The  rice  had 
better  be  done  a  little  too  much,  than  under. 

353.  Sandy  Pudding. — Eemove  the  inside  of  three  lemons 
into  a  basin,  take  out  the  pips,  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  mix 
well ;  roll  a  long  strip  of  paste,  as  for  roliy-poily  pudding,  lay 
the  mixture  over  wdth  a  spoon;  roll  and  boil  the  same  as 
roily -polly  pudding. 

Orange  can  be  done  the  same  way,  with  the  addition  of  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

854.  Young  England  Pudding. — Make  some  paste.  IsTo.  319, 
roll  and  lay  it  in  a  basin ;  then  roll  about  seven  or  eight  very  thin 
pieces  the  size  of  the  bason;  then  get  a  pomid  of  treacle,  or  golden 
syrup,  and  pour  a  little  on  the  paste,  squeezing  a  little  lemon 
juice,  and  chop  up  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  sprinkle  a  little  over ; 
add  the  other  pieces  of  paste,  and  then  the  treacle  and  lemon 
until  full.  Boil  i»  ^  cloth  for  one  hour,  and  serve  with  some 
keacle  over. 


SWEET  AND   FliUIf   PUDDINGS*  133 

I  tliink  I  remember  telling  you,  my  dear  Eloise,  of  tlie  pleasant 
tiire  I  passed  at  Boulogne  two  smnmers  since,  and  of  our  little  trip 
to  the  Yallee  Heureuse,  or  Happy  Valley,  near  Marquise,  a  charming 
village  near  Boulogne.  In  the  course  of  our  ramble  on  that  plea- 
sant day,  we  all  gathered  a  lot  of  blackberries — ^but  such  berries  as 
we  do  not  meet  with  in  England;  they  are  a  lascious,  ripe  fruit. 
These  we  took  home  with  us  to  the  hotel,  and  the  next  day  boiled 
them  up  with  a  lot  of  sugar,  and  made  them  into  a  pudding  like  the 
above,  usmg  the  fruit  and  syrup  instead  of  treacle.  It  was  very  much 
liked  at  dinner,  which  was  a  table  d'hote,  and  the  colour  somewhat 
resembling  Uncle  Tom's  face,  it  was  at  once  christened  wdth  that 
name,  and  is  now  known  as  Uncle  Tom's  pudding.  A  little  port 
wine  sauce  may  be  used,  and  also  black  currants,  boiled  to  a  syrup. 

355.  Isinglass  and  Gelatine  for  Jellies. —  Dissolve  two 
ounces  of  isinglass  in  half  a  pint  of  water ;  boil  and  reduce  to 
half,  pass  through  a  cloth  into  a  basin ;  use  wbere  requii*ed. 

Gelatine  may  be  used  the  same  way. 

The  stock  of  tww  calf's  feet,  reduced  to  half  a  pint,  may  be 
used  instead  of  isinglass ;  it  will  make  it  cheaper. 
The  stock  of  cow-heel  can  also  be  used. 

356.  Boliemian  Cream.  —  Prepare  four  ounces  of  any  fruit, 
as  'No.  384,  which  pass  through  a  sieve,  and  one  ounce  and  a 
half  of  melted  isinglass  to  halt  a  pint  of  fruit;  mix  it  v^ell, 
whip  up  a  pint  of  cream,  and  add  the  fruit  and  isinglass,  gra- 
dually to  it;  put  it  in  a  mould;  let  it  set  on  ice  or  in  any  cool 
place,  and  when  ready,  dip  the  mould  into  warm  water,  and  tui-n 
out. 

357.  White  Cream.'-^'Pu.t  into  a  bason  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sugar,  a  gill  of  pale  brandy,  and  one  and  a  half  ounce  of 
either  melted  isinglass,  gelatine,  or  calf's  foot ;  stir  it  well,  and 
add  a  pint  of  whipped  cream ;  proceed  as  before.  Eum,  noyeau, 
cara9oa,  or  other  liquors  or  flavours,  may  be  added.  When 
liquors  are  used,  add  less  sugar.  If  you  have  any  ice,  use  only 
an  ounce  of  either. 

358.  Calfs'foot  Jelly. — It  is  possible,  even  in  the  poorest 
family,  that  jelly  may  be  recommended  in  cases  of  illness,  and 
they  may  be  at  a  distance  from  any  place  where  it  could  be 
purchased.     I  think  it  right  to  give  the  following  receipt : — 

Cut  two  calf's  feet  and  put  them  in  three  quarts  of  water ; 
when  boiling,  remove  to  the  side  of  the  fii-e,  and  let  it  simmer 
from  three  to  four  l^ours,  keeping  it  skimmed;  pass  it  through  a 


1S4'  SWEET  AND  imrJIT  PUDDINGS. 

sieve  into  a  bason,  where  it  must  remain  until  quite  liard ;  tLen  t 
remove  all  thxe  fat,  &c.,  from  the  top.  Put  into  a  pan  half  a 
pound  of  white  sugar  crushed,  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  the  rind 
of  one,  the  whites  and  shells  of  five  eggs,  two  glasses  of  white  wine 
and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water ;  stir  till  the  sugar  is  melted,  then 
add  the  jelly ;  place  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  well  until  boiling; 
then  pass  it  through  a  flannel  bag  until  clear.  Put  in  a 
mould  with  or  without  fresh  fruit.  Set  in  ice  or  any  cool 
place,  till  firm.  Brandyj  rum^  or  any  liqueurs,  may  be  added, 
or  serve  plain. 

359.  Orange  Jelly. — Procure  five  oranges  and  one  lemon ; 
take  the  rind  off  two  of  the  oranges,  and  half  of  the  lemon,  and 
remove  the  pith,  put  them  in  a  bason,  and  squeeze  the  juice  of 
the  fruit  into  it ;  then  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  into  a 
stewpan,  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  set  it  to  boil  until  it 
becomes  a  syrup,  when  take  it  off,  and  add  the  juice  and  rind 
of  the  fruits ;  cover  the  stewpan,  and  place  it  again  on  the 
fire ;  as  soon  as  boiling  commences,  skim  well,  and  add  a  gill 
of  water  by  degrees,  which  will  assist  its  clarification ;  let  it  boil 
another  minute,  when  add  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass,  dissolved 
as  directed  (No.  355),  pass  it  through  a  jelly-bag,  or  fine  sieve;  add 
a  few  drops  of  prepared  cochineal  to  give  an  orange  tint,  and  then 
fill  a  mould  and  place  it  on  ice ;  turn  out  as  before.  This  jelly 
does  not  require  to  look  very  clear. 

360.  Lemon  Jelly  is  made  the  same  way,  only  using  six 
lemons  and  the  rind  of  one. 

To  tliose  who  wish  to  save  trouble,  I  would  recommend  them  to 
buy  their  jellies  ready  made.  They  may  be  purchased  at  almost 
every  Ital'an  warehouse  in  town  and  country,  in  bottles  of  about  a 
pint  and  a  quart  each,  so  prepared  as  to  keep  fresh  and  good  for 
years.  Many  of  my  friends  use  these  Bottled  Jellies ,  of  which  I 
find  the  following  are  the  best  kinds  :  Noyeau,  punch,  orange,  lemon, 
Madeira,  and  plain  calf's-foot.  They  are  all  very  excellent  and  use- 
ful in  their  way. 

Deae  Eloise, — While  en  the  subiect  of  jellies  and  confectionary 
I  feel  I  should  be  wanting  in  doty  to  the  public  were  I  to  refrain 
from  drawing  their  earnest  attention  to  the  recent  disclosures  in  thf 
Lancet^  which  so  fearlessly  exposed  the  poisonous  adulterations  found  = 
in  the  various  ai'ticles  of  preserves  and  confectionarv  »iivi,^P^Hed  tfl  _ 


SWEET   AND   FRUIT  I»UDDINGS.  135 

examination.  There  is  not  a  doubt  these  disclosures  have  had  a  most 
beneficial  effect  in  checking  the  existence  of  the  injurious  practices 
previously  adhered  to ;  and  I  may  now  look  forward  with  confidence 
to  the  day  v/hen  not  only  such  delicacies,  but  the  whole  of  the  food 
w-.e  esit,  may  be  enjoyed  without  the  slightest  fear  of  injury  to  our 
^alth.  Adulteration  will  then  become  the  exception,  instead  ofj  aa 
'it  hitherto  has  been,  the  rtde. 

The  following  paragraph,  copied  from  the  Lancet  of  the  4th 
J^e]?riiary,  1854,  appears  to  me  not  an  inapt  illustration  of  my 
.reniarks,  displaying,  as  it  does,  the  difTcrence  betw^een  pure  and 
Joapure  preserves,  accompanied  by  the  gratifying  intelligence  of  the 
possibility  of  procuring  them  in  a  wholesome  state.* 

361.  JPlain  Custard. — Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  in  which  place 
two  ounces  of  sugar,  the  thin  peel  of  half  a  lemon ;  break  in  a 
basin  four  eggs,  beat  them  well  with  a  fork,  then  pour  in  the 
milk  by  degrees,  not:  too  hot ;  mix  it  well,  pass  it  through  a 
cullender  or  sieve,  fill  cups  with  it,  which  place  in  a  stew- 
pan,  on  the  fire,  which  contains  one  inch  of  water ;  leave  them 
for  about  twelve  minutes,  or  till  set,  which  is  easily  perceived. 

362.  Coffee,  Cocoa,  or  Chocolate  Custard. — -Make  some  very 
strong  coffee,  beat  the  eggs  as  above ;  put  in  a  pan  half  a  pint 


*  "  The  practice  of  imparting  to  bottled  and  preserved  fruits  and 
vegetables  a  bright  green  colour,  hj  means  of  a  poisonous  salt  of 
copper,  still  prevails  extensively.  Nothing  can  be  more  pernicious 
than  this  practice ;  it  has,  however,  received  a  considerable  check  by 
the  publication  of  the  reports  ot  the  Analytical  Sanitary  Commission 
on  this  subject.  One  firm,  we  know,  that  of  Messrs.  Crosse  and 
Blackwell,  whose  establishment  is  the  most  extensive  of  any  engaged 
in  this  branch  of  trade,  has  gone  to  a  very  considerable  expense  in 
fitting  up  a  large  silver  vessel,  as  well  as  several  steam  pans,  which 
latter  are  lined  with  a  thick  coating  of  glass  enamel,  for  thv.  prepp^ra- 
tion  of  their  various  manufactures;  thus  taking  every  precaution 
to  guard  against  the  contact  with  copper.  The  difference  in  the 
appearance  of  fruits  and  vegetables  which  are  artificially  coloured, 
and  those  w^hich  have  not  had  any  colouring  matter  added,  ia 
very  great — so  striking,  indeed,  that  a  practised  eye  can  readily 
distinguish  the  one  from  the  other.  The  former  are  of  a  bright 
and  almost  rnetallic-green  hue,  much  deeper  than  tliat  of  the 
recent  fruit,  while  the  latter  are  of  a  pale  yellowish-green  colom; 
t-arying  with  the  nature  of  the  fruit  or  vegetable  preseived.  As  for 
Khe  difierence  in  the  wholesomeness  of  the  two  articles,  there  can  be 
'liut  a  single  opmion,  while,  in  our  estimation,  the  appearance  in  th€ 
)  .iicoloured  sample  is  much  the  most  pleasing  and  naturaU'* 

X 


136  SWEET  AND  PEUIT  PUDDINGS. 

of  milk  and  lialf  a  pint  of  made  coffee,  with  two  ounces  of  sngatj 
then  add  the  eggs,  pass  through  a  sieve,  and  proceed  as  above. 

Chocolate  and  cocoa  the  same,  only  omitting  the  lemon-peei 
in  all  three. 

363.  Custard  in  Tie  D^5^.•— Put  a  border  of  puff  pa^le 
round  the  dish,  fill  with  the  above,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  iw 
a  slow  oven.     Eat  whilst  cold. 

364.  Custard  for  Puddings, — The  above  will  be  the  foaia^A- 
tion  for  any  flavour  that  may  be  introduced ;  as  orange  fiower 
or  peel,  noyeau,  &c.  &c.  With  this  mixture  an  innumerable 
number  of  puddings  can  be  made,  that  in  country  places,  or  even 
towns,  will  be  found  as  economical  an  article  of  food,  when 
eggs  are  cheap,  as  can  be  partaken  of,  and  particularly  appre- 
ciated by  the  rising  generatioue 

.  365.  Farm  Custard. — Put  in  a  small  saucepan  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon, 
or  a  quarter  of  that  grated,  a  grain  of  salt ;  mix  all  well,  then  add 
half  a  pint  of  milk ;  set  the  whole  on  the  fire,  stir  continually  with 
a  wooden  spoon  till  it  gets  thick  and  smooth ;  but  do  not  let  it 
boil,  or  it  will  curd ;  then  put  it  in  a  basin  to  cool,  stirring  now 
and  then ;  if  handy,  pass  it  through  a  sieve,  it  gives  it  a  nice 
appearance,  and  serve  either  in  glasses  or  cups,  with  any  fresh 
or  stewed  fruit,  orange  peel,  or  any  essence,  brandy,  or  rum, 
may  be  used  for  flavouring. 

When  at  our  friend  Lindley's  house  in  Yorkshire,  I  took  a  gill  of 
cream,  whipped  it,  and  mixed  it  with  the  custard  when  cold.  It 
made  it  very  white  and  dehcate.  The  custard  may  be  whipped  while 
being  made. 

You  wi^h  to  know  what  I  did  with  the  white  of  the  eggs,  and  per-* 
fectly  right  that  you  should.  Well,  I  put  them  in  a  basin  with  % 
\^ry  little  bit  of  salt,  then  with  a  whisk  I  beat  them  till  firm  and  as 
white  as  snow,  then  I  add  four  teaspoonfuls  of  pounded  sugar,  mix 
it  well;  I  put  a  pint  of  milk  to  boil  in  a  very  clean  saute,  or 
frying-pan,  and,  with  the  aid  of  a  spoon,  I  scoop  off  the  white  in  the 
shape  of  eggs,  dropping  them  in  the  milk,  letting  them  remain  till 
done,  turning  them  occasionally;  take  them  out,  and  serve  when 
lold,  pouring  some  of  the  custard  over  j  the  remaining  milk  was  used  1 
for  puddings. 

Even  now,  Eloise,  you  d^o  not  seem  satisfied,  so  I  send  you  a 
receipt  for  a  soufHe.    It  seems  to  you,  no  doubt,  very  simple ;  let  ma  i 
teU  you,  however,  that  it  Is  so  only  in  appearance;  the  great  ^Qm% 


SWEET  AND  FRUIT  PUDDINaS.  137 

m  in  properly  beaming  the  white  of  the  eggs ;  therefore,  if  you  fail  In 
^oar  attempt,  do  not  blame  me,  the  details  of  the  receipt  being  quite 
accurate. 

366.  ^^^  Pudding,  or  Omelette  Souffle. ---'BYesk  four  eggs; 
carefully  separate  the  white  from  the  yolk,  put  both  in  different 
basins;  add  to  the  yolk  three  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar 
and  one  of  flour,  a  little  grated  orange  or  lemon  peel,  or  any  other 
flavour  you  prefer ;  stir  the  whole  for  five  minutes,  then  beat 
thQ  white  of  the  eggs  with  a  whisk;  when  firm,  mix  lightly  vath 
t\iQ  yolk  till  forming  a  nice,  smooth,  light,  and  rather  firm  sub- 
stance ;  then  put  it  either  in  a  tin  pan,  cake  pan,  or  a  common 
pan,  which  can  stand  the  heat  of  the  oven,  buttering  it  vfell. 

If  in  a  tin  dish,  shape  it  in  pyramids  with  a  knife,  put  it  in 
a  moderate  oven  from  ten  to  twelve  minutes,  sugar  over  and 
serve.  When  nearly  done,  an  incision  or  two  with  the  point  of  a 
knife  may  be  made  through  the  thin  crust  |  it  will  m.ake  it  lighter. 
You  may  also  put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan,  and 
when  hot  put  in  your  mixture,  and  toss  it  round  three  or  four 
times ;  put  it  on  a  dish,  bake  as  above.    Ten  minutes  will  do  it. 

367.  How  to  nary  Bread  or  any  Custard  Puddings. — -Have 
some  slices  of  bread  cut  thin  and  buttered ;  lay  them  in  the  dish 
singly ;  pour  in  the  custard.  No.  365,  and  bake  gently,  or  place 
in  a  pan  with  a  little  water  in  it. 

These  may  be  altered  thus :— - 

By  throwing  in  some  currants. 

Or  bruised  ratafia  cakes. 

Or  sultana  rasins. 

Or  Malaga  ditto. 

Or  French  prunes. 

Or  dried  cherries. 

Or  stewed  rhubarb. 

Or  apple ;  or,  in  fact,  any  fruit  according  to  fancy. 

"Well  boiled  rice,  macaroni,  vermicelli,  &c.,  may  be  used ;  tlie 
custard  always  being  poured  over,  and  sifted  sugar  on  the  top. 

New  style,  as  a  second-class  mixture :  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  milk  enough  to  make  it  thickish. 

368.  Gooseberry  Fool. — Put  in  a  pan  a  quart  of  green 
gooseberries,  with  a  wineglass  of  water  and  half  a  pound  of 
"sugar;  stew  on  a  slow  fire  for  twenty  minutes,  keep  stirring  j  put 
in  basin,  and  whip  a  pint  of  cream  j  when  the  fi:uit  is  cold  j  mix 


138  SWEET   AND   FRUIT  PUDDINGS. 

i?itli  the  cream,  and  serve  in  cups  or  hollow  dish,  or  with 
pastry  round  it. 

Apple  may  be  done  the  same  way. 

Currants  and  raspberries  the  same. 

Bed  rhubarb  the  same. 

Cherries  may  be  done  the  same,  having  previously  Leeii 
stoned.     If  too  much  syrup,  add  a  little  isinglass. 

369.  Orange  Salad,  —  Choose  six  oranges  not  too  iarg^, 
cut  them  in  thin  slices  crossways,  remove  the  pips,  lay  them  fla^i 
in  a  dish,  cover  over  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  gill 
of  brandy,  rum,  or  Madeira ;  stir  them,  and  serve. 

370.  Strawberry  Salad. — A  large  pottle  of  ripe  strawberries, 
picked  and  put  into  a  basin  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  powdered  cinnamon,  a  gill  of  brandy ;  stir  gently,  and 
serve.  * 

Currants  and  raspberries  the  same. 

As  all  fruits  and  vegetables  are  destined  for  the  use  of  man, 
these  should  be  partaken  of  by  all  classes  when  in  season,  as 
they  are  invaluable  for  health. 

371.  Velvet  Cream. — A  very  excellent  dish  is  made  thus  ;— 
Put  in  a  dessert  glass  a  thick  layer  of  strawberry  jam  or  any 
other  preserve,  and  place  over  it  about  a  pint  of  hot  snow 
cream  mixture,  No.  352;  when  cr}^^  the  top  may  be  orna- 
mented with  fresh  or  preserved  fr'uit. 

872.  Rice  Croquettes. — Make  some  of  the  above  mixture  very 
stiff;  when  cold,  roll  it,  or  serve  it  in  any  shape  you  like.  Egg 
and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  ^uickJ  j  im  hot  fat  in  a  frying-paji. 
Sugar  over. 

873.  Lemon  Pudding. — Put  in  a  basin  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
^L  Hour,  same  of  sugar,  same  of  bread  crumbs  and  chopped  suet, 
the  juice  of  one  good-sized  lemon,  and  the  peel  grated,  two. 
eggs,  and  enough  milk  to  m.ake  it  the  consistency  of  porridge  j 
Doil  in  a  basin  for  one  hour  5  serve  with  or  without  sauce. 

374.  Dripping  Fudding. — Three  eggs  and  their  weight  in 
dripping,  tv^o  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar;  beat  them  up  until 
a  cream,  add  a  few  currants,  and  the  flour  gradually,  until  it 
forms  a  stiff  paste ;  bake  in  cuj)s  previously  butteredr 


SWEET  AND  FRUIT  PUDDINGS.  139 

375.  Potato  Pziddm^.—'One  pound  of  potatoes  boiled  and  well 
mashed,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  stirred  in  whilst  warm, 
two  ounces  of  sugar,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  chopped  fine,  with 
the  juice,  a  teacupful  of  milk ;  butter  a  tin,  put  in  the  mixture, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour;  two  eggs  may  h^ 
added. 

376.  JDou^/i  Pudding  tvith  Ap^^^es. -^Cnt  four  apples  into 
dice,  put  over  two  ounces  of  sugar,  hal*f  a  pound  of  chopped  suet, 
one  pound  of  Hour,  and  half  a  pint  of  water;  bake  in  a  pie  dish 
or  a  mould,  or  boil  in  a  basin,  as  a  pudding ;  sweet  sauce  may 
be  poured  over. 

377.  First  Class  Yorkshire  Pudding. -^Beat  up  two  eggs 
in  a  basin,  add  to  them  three  good  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  with 
a  pint  of  milk  Idj  degrees,  and  a  little  salt ;  butter  the  pan,  bake 
half  an  hour,  or  bake  under  the  meat,  cut  it  in  four,  turn  it, 
and  when  set  on  both  sides  it  is  done.  A  tin  dish  one  inch  and 
a  half  deep  and  eight  inches  wide,  is  the  most  suitable  for  such 
proportion. 

378.  Second  Class.-^Vni  in  a  basin  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepner, 
beat  one  egg  with  a  pint  of  milk,  pour  over  on  the  flour^by 
degrees  till  smooth,  and  proceed  as  above. 

379.  TMrd  Class.'--1{  no  eggs,  chop  two  ounces  of  beef  suet 
fine,  add  a  little  soda,  mix.  as  above,  and  bake  the  same.  A 
little  chopped  parsley,  chives,  or  aromatic  herbs,  may  be  intro- 
duced  in  either  of  the  above.  These  receipts  are  good  with 
any  kind  of  roasted  or  baked  meat,  or  poultry.  To  facilitate 
the  turning,  when  one  side  is  brown  and  the  pudding  well  set, 
cut  it  into  several  pieces,  turning  with  a  knife  or  a  fork.  If 
preferred  served  whole,  put  a  plate  on  the  top  of  the  baking  tin, 
turn  it  over,  and  slip  it  back;  let  it  remain  in  the  tin  ten 
minutes  longer,  and  serve  either  round  or  separate. 

380.  Pancakes.-^Vxii  the  pan  on  the  fire  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  lard,  let  it  melt,  pour  ofl"  all  that  is  not  wanted,  then  pour  in 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  following  batter: — 

Break  four  eggs  in  a  basin,  add  four  smaU  tablespoonfuls  of 
illour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  salt;  beat  all  well,  mixing 
)by  degrees  half  a  pint  of  milk,  a  little  more  or  less,  depending 
ion  the  size  of  the  eggs  and  the  quality  of  the  flour.    It  must  form 


140  STEWED  FRUITS. 

A  ratliei  tliick  batter.  A  little  ginger,  cinnamon,  or  any  otlier 
flavour  you  fancy.  Two  eggs  only  may  be  used,  but  in  this  case 
use  a  little  more  iiour  and  milk.  When  set,  and  one  side 
brownish,  lay  hold  of  the  frying-pan  at  the  extremity  of  the 
handle,  give  it  a  sudden  but  slight  jerk  upwards,  and  the  cake 
will  turn  over  on  the  other  side ;  which,  when  brown,  dish  up 
with  sifted  sugar  over.  Serve  with  lemon.  Chopped  apples  may 
be  added  to  the  batter;  currants  and  sultanas  can  be  mixed 
with  it. 

381.  Apple  Fritters.'^^'Peel  and  slice  crossways,  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  some  apples,  remove  the  core,  and  dip  them  one  after 
the  other  in  the  following  batter :  Put  in  a  basin  about  two  ounces 
of  flour,  a  little  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  oil,  and  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  moistened  by  degrees  with  water,  stirring  all  the  while 
with  a  spoon,  till  forming  a  smooth  consistency,  to  the  thickness 
of  cream,  then ,  beat  the  white  of  the  egg  till  fu*m,  mixing  it 
with  the  batter;  it  is  then  ready  to  fry;  use  any  fruit  as  fritters. 
If  no  oil,  use  an  ounce  of  butter  previously  melted,  adding  it  to 
the  batter  before  the  white  of  the  e^^  is  used^ 


I 


Apjile  Fritters  Simplified. — When  peeled  and  cut,  put 
sugar  over,  add  a  little  lemon  jaice  or  spii-its,  let  the  pieces 
soak  two  hours,  then  dip  each  piece  in  flour,  and  have  ready  a 
frying-pan,  wdth  at  least  two  inches  deep  of  fat.  When  hot, 
put  the  apples  in  one  at  a  time,  turn  over  with  a  slice  as  they 
are  doing,  and  serve  with  sugar  over.  All  kinds  of  ripe  pears 
may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

382.  College  JPitdding. — Put  half  a  pound  of  crumbs  into  a 
basin,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chopped  suet,  the  same  of 
currants,  two  eggs,  two  ounces  ot  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  a'nd  salt, 
and  a  little  milk;  mix  all  together,  make  round  balls,  egg-crumb, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  till  a  nice  colour ;  dish  up  with  sugar  over ;  a 
glass  of  brandy  or  rum  in  it  is  exceedingly  good. 

383.  Buttered  Apples.— Veel,  slice,  and  core  one  pound  of  'i 
apples,  put  into  a  frying-pan  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  add 
the  apple,  and  cover  over  with  two  ounces  of  pounded  sugar ;  I 
put  them  in  the  oven  until  done.    A  very  nice  dish  for  children. 
When  done,  they  may  be  dished  up  on  a  nice  crisp  piece  of 
toast  with  sugar  over. 

384  Stewed  Fruits^^^The^Q,  at  those  periods  of  the  yea*  i 


I 


STEWED   FRUITS.  141 

when  iN^ature  lias  ordained  tliat  they  shall  come  to  perfection 
without  artificial  means,  are  as  wholesome  an  article  of  food  as 
can  he  partaken  of,  as  they  cool  the .  blood  and  are  perfectly 
harmless. 

They  are  easily  done,  and  are  cheap.  In  the  following 
receipts,  which  I  will  mark  as  lessons,  one  pound  is  the  quantity 
named. 

Apples.  1st  Lesson. — ^Peel  one  pound  of  apples,  cut  in  slices, 
remove  the  core,  put  into  a  stewpan  with  three  or  four  ounces 
of  white  pounded  sugar,  one  ounce  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  water ;  stir  gently  on  a  slow  fire  until  tender ;  use  hot  or  cold 
ivhen  required.    Brown  sugar  may  be  used. 

2nd  Lesson. — To  the  above  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  or 
of  one  orange,  and  a  little  of  the  peel  of  either,  or  a  small  piece 
•  of  cinnamon,  or  in  powder. 

Hed  Wiuharh,  1st  Lesson. — Cut  one  pound  of  rhubarb  one 
inch  long,  put  into  a  pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and 
three  ounces  of  white  powdered  sugar ;  stir  on  a  slow  fire  till 
tender. 

2nd  Lesson.-^Siew  with  brown  sugar :  green  rhubarb  requires 
peeling.     Stir  more  if  old. 

Brd  Lesson. — Cut  a  pound  of  the  common  rhubarb,  put  in  an 
iron  pot  with  four  ounces  of  brown  sugar ;  stir  well  with  a 
spoon  until  it  is  quite  thick  and  adheres  to  it ;  take  it  out  to 
cool.     It  can  be  used,  spread  on  bread,  for  tea  or  supper. 

Green  Gooseberries,  1st  Lesson,  —  One  pound  of  goose- 
berries with  six  ounces  of  sugar ;  boil  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  water,  turning  them  well ;  stir,  and  keep  until  cold.  Or  by 
mixing  cream  with  it,  it  will  make  gooseberry  fool. 

Greengages,  Orleans  plums,  Qg^  plums,  cherries,  cm^rants,  red, 
white,  and  black,  raspberries,  mulberries,  and  strawberries,  may 
all  be  done  the  same  way. 

The  following  is  another  very  nice  way,  and  may  be  used  for 
several  fruits  in  winter.  Cherries  being  the  most  difficult,  we 
will  name  that  in  particular.  All  the  others  can  be  done 
like  it. 

Cut  the  stalk  half  off  of  oiu  pound  of  chersiesi  j^ut  Ipto  a  pan 


l42  SWEET  AND  FEUIT  CAKES. 

with  eight  ounces  of  sugar ;  set  on  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  add  half  a  pound  of  red  currants,  and  the  same  of  rasp- 
berries; stev/  altogether  until  getting  tender  and  the  juice 
becomes  quite  thick ;  put  by  until  cold.  It  may  he  used  with 
pastry  or  v/ith  bread. 

Siberian  crabs,  cranberries,  damsons,  and  all  other  fruits 
the  same  way. 

All  the  above  malie  a  very  nice  light  and  quick  dish  for 
supper  done  as  follows  :-— 

Cut  some  nice  slices  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick,  dip  them 
in  milk  which  is  sweetened,  or  sprinkle  sugar  over,  then  dip  it 
into  some  batter  of  milk  and  flour,  and  fry  nicely,  or  put  som^o 
butter  in  a  tin  dish,  bread  over,  and  put  in  an  oven.  When 
quite  hot  and  nearly  hard,  put  some  of  the  above  fruit  over,  and 
serve. 

385.  Fhtm  Calce, — Weigh  one  pound  and  a  half  of  flour, 
one  of  cmTants,  well  washed,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  nine 
eggs ;  put  into  a  good-sized  basin  the  butter,  which  well  work, 
with  clean  hands,  until  it  is  like  a  cream ;  in  about  ten  minutes 
it  is  ready ;  then  add  a  little  sugar  and  the  eggs  by  degrees,  and 
then  the  flour,  then  add  the  currants  and  line  a  cake-hoop  with 
paper,  put  the  mixture  in,  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  one  hour, 
vxnd  bake  it  for  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Half  or  even  a 
quarter  of  the  quantity  may  be  made. 

386.  Common  Sort. — Put  in  a  basin  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
work  it  well,  add  half  a  pound  of  sagar  and  four  eggs,  beat  all 
well  together,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  two  pounds  of  flour. 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  caraway-seeds  or  half  a  pound  of 
plums ;  put  it  in  a  hoop  or  deep  pie-dish,  and  bake  two  hours. 

To  ascertain  if  the  cake  is  done,  take  a  piece  of  dry  wood 
or  skewer,  pass  it  into  the  cake,  and  if  it  comes  out  dry,  it  is 
done. 

387.  Ground  Mice  Cake. — Break  five  eggs  into  a  stewpan, 
which  place  in  another,  containing  hot  water,  whip  the  eggs  for 
ten  minutes  till  very  light,  then  mix  in  by  degrees  half  a  pound 
of  ground  rice,  six  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,,  beat  it  well ;  any 
flavour  may  be  introduced  \  pour  into  buttered  paB  aad  bake 
half  an  hour. 


SWEET  AND  FRUIT  CAKES.  143 

SS7a.  Tastry  Cream. — Break  two  eggs  in  a  pan,  add  twa 
tablospoonfuls  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt;  moisten  with  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  milk ;  set  on  the  fire,  boil  twenty  minutes,  or  till  it 
fonns  tbickish  smooth  consistency ;  then  add  two  ounces  of 
pounded  sugar,  one  of  butter  >>  put  in  either  a  little  orange  flower 
water,  or  a  drop  of  any  essence  you  choose,  grated  orange  or 
lemon  peel.  One  dozen  of  bruised  ratafias  will  be  an  improve- 
ment, put  in  at  the  same  time  as  the  sugar.  Previous  to  using, 
add  to  the  cream  one  ounce  of  butter,  which  you  have  previously 
made  very  hot.  This  may  be  used  for  all  kinds  of  pastry,  in- 
stead of  jam. 

888.  Ginger  Cake, — Half  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  ground  ginger,  six  eggs,  beat 
well,  stirring  one  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  and  add  as  much 
milk,  a  little  warm,  as  will  make  a  nice  stiff  dough  for  bread  j 
bake  in  pan ;  it  will  take  two  hours, 

388a.  B^ock  Cakes. — Put  in  a  basin  tv^^o  pounds  of  flour, 
half  of  sugar,  half  currants,  half  of  butter,  three  eggs,  beat  well, 
make  them  into  balls  or  rock,  the  size  of  eggs ;  bake  on  baking 
sheets ;  a  little  milk  may  be  added. 

889.  Common  Gingerbread. — Put  on  a  slab  or  table  a 
pound  of  flour,  make  a  ring  of  it ;  put  half  a  pint  of  treacle 
in,  mix  well  together  till  forming  a  stifi*  paste,  working  it  well. 
Put  some  flour  in  a  basin,  to  which  add  your  dough ;  it  will 
keep  thus  for  seven  or  eight  weeks.  When  you  want  to  use  it, 
put  in  any  quantity  of  ground  ginger  you  require,  according 
i;c  taste ;  mix  wellj  roll  thin,  cut  any  size  you  like ;  pieces  about 
the  size  of  a  crown  are  best;  then  put  them  on  a  baking- 
sheet,  bake  for  a  few  minutes,  till  crisp.  'These  cakes  will  keep 
a  long  while  if  put  in  an  air-tight  case.  An  ounce  of  butter 
may  be  used  to  every  pound  of  paste. 

They  are  excellent  in  assisting  digestion  after  dinner. 

390.  Bice  Cake. — ^Wash  one  pound  of  rice,  put  it  in  a  stew- 
"pan,  with  a  pint  of  water,  put  it  on  the  Are ;  when  the  rice  is 
?\rell  soaked  add  a  quart  of  milk,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
grated  lemon-peel  or  a  little  nutmeg,  or  a  piece  of  cinnamon, 
boil  till  thick,  then  add  two  eggs,  well  beat,^  a  little  salt,  and  a 


144  SWEET  AND  FHUIT  CAKES. 

quarter  of  &  pound  of  sugar ;  place  all  in  a  greased  pan  or  tin 
breadpan }  bake  one  hour,  and  serve  with  sugar  or  jam  over. 

391.  The  same  a  Cheaper  Way. — Add  to  one  pound  of  rice, 
wben  boiled,  two  ounces  of  chopped  suet,  a  spoonful  of  flour,  a 
quart  of  skim  milk,  some  brown  sugar  or  treacle ;  bake  in  large 
fan  ;  eat  cold ;  and  fruit  of  any  kind  may  be  mixed  with  it. 

392.  Apple  Calce, — Butter  a  pie-dish  near  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  throw  in  a  large  quantity  of  bread-crumbs,  as  much 
as  will  stick,  when  pressed  well,  on  the  butter ;  then  have  some 
apples  already  stewed  down  and  sweetened,  as  No  384,  of  which 
nearly  fill  the  dish,  put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  bits,  cover 
over  with  bread-crumbs,  also  half  an  inch  thick,  put  into  hot 
oven ;  when  done,  pass  a  knife  round  and  turn  it  out,  sugar  over, 
and  glaze  with  a  red-hot  shovel. 

If  used  hot,  a  little  rum  put  round  it  and  lighted  is  very  nice. 

393.  8'pice  Cahe. — To  one  pound  and  a  half  of  dough  add 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  of  currants,  half  of  sugar,  half  an 
ounce  of  spice,  beat  ail  well  together,  and  bake  in  a  mould  one 
hour. 

394.  Little  Milh  Cahe  for  BreaJcfast. — Place  on  a  table  or 
stab  one  pound  of  fiour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  of  sugar, 
three  of  fresh  yeast,  or  a  very  small  piece  of  German,  two 
ounces  of  butter  and  one  eg^ ;  have  some  new  milk,  pour  in  a 
gill,  mix  all  together,  adding  more  milk  to  form  a  nice  dough, 
then  put  some  ilom'  in  a  cloth,  put  the  dough  in,  and  lay  it  in  a 
warm  place ;  let  it  rise  for  about  two  hom-s,  cut  it  in  pieces  the 
size  of  eggs,  roll  them  even,  and  mark  the  top  with  a  sharp  knife ; 
egg  over  and  bake  quick;  serve  hot  or  cold. 

A  Common  Sort-^^Onlj  yeast,  salt,  milk,  and  butter,  and 
proceed  as  before. 

Cottage  Sort. — To  one  pound  of  flour,  two  ounces  of  lard  or 
dripping,  the  yeast  and  skim  milk. 

Sioeet  Sort.-— To  one  pound  of  flour  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
yeast,  two  ounces  of  lard  or  dripping,  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
tugar,  a  few  currants  or  caraway  seeds:  bake  quick  v/hen  well 

-  ''isen. 


SWEET  AND  FEUIT  CAKES.  145 

395.  Eccles  CaJce. — To  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  some  lemon-peel  chopped  fine, 
one  ounce  of  sugar,  roll  out  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  puff 
paste,  No.  315,  roll  it  round  the  size  of  a  small  plate,  and  nearly 
an  inch  thick,  then  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  over 
it,  roll  another  piece  of  paste  over  it,  and  bake  a  nice  delicate 
colour. 

396.  Bread  Apple  Cake, — ^Well  butter  a  tart-dish  of  any  size, 
about  three  inches  deep,  cut  some  slices  of  bread  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  which  lay  in  it  so  that  the  bottom  and  sides  are 
^uite  covered,  stew  some  apple  nearly  dry,  as  No.  384,  put  them 
on  the  bread  until  the  dish  is  full,  cover  over  with  more  butter 
and  bread,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour ;  remove  it 
from  the  dish ;  turn  over,  and  dish  it  up  with  sugar  on  the  top. 

397.  Tipsy  Cake. — Cut  a  small  Savoy  cake  in  slices,  put 
them  into  a  basin,  and  pour  some  white  wine  and  a  little  rum 
over ;  let  soak  for  a  few  hours,  put  into  a  dish,  and  serve  with 
some  custard  round.  It  may  be  decorated  v/ith  a  few  blanched 
almonds  or  whipt  cream  and  fruit. 

These  may  be  made  with  small  sponge  cakes,  by  soaking 
them  in  some  white  wine,  in  which  currant-jelly  has  been 
dissolved ;  take  twelve  of  them  stale,  which  will  cost  sixpence 
soak  them  well;,  put  them  in  a  dish,  cover  them  with  jam  or 
jelly,  and  thus  make  four  layers,  decorating  the  top  with  cut 
preserved  fruit  j  dish  with  custard  or  whipt  cream  round. 

398.  JPlain  Calce.—M.bi  two  pounds  of  dry  flour  with 
four  ounces  of  clean  dripping  melted  in  a  pint  of  milk,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  two  well  beaten  eggs,  mix  well 
together,  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  then  knead  well 
and  make  into  cakes ;  fiour  a  tin,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  in  a 
tin ;  carraw ay- seeds  or  currants  may  be  added,  sugar  over. 

399.  Soda  Cake. — Half  a  pound  of  good  clean  dripping,  one 
pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  not  quite  half  an  ounce  of 
soda ;  beat  the  dripping  well  with  the  sifted  sugar,  and  beat  the 
fiour  in  with  the  soda ;  bake  in  tins  in  a  slow  oven  for  one  hour 
and  a  half. 

Another. — Half  a  pound  of  di-ipping,  half  a  pound  of  moLst 
sugar,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  flour,  a  tea- 


I4t)  BREAD. 

spoonful  of  carl}ona{;e  of  soda,  three  eggs,  well  beaten  and 
mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  warm  milk ;  then  mix  altogether  an ' 
bake  in  a  tin  lined  with  writing  paper. 

400.  Foreign  Biscuits. — A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
mix  with  a  pound  of  flour,  dissolve  a  quarter  of  a  pound  ot 
sugar  in  half  a  pint  of  warm  new  milk,  pour  gradually  to  the 
fiour,  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  of  tartar  in  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  flour,  and  make  it  into  a  stiff 
paste,  roll  out,  and  cut  in  small  cakes  with  a  wineglass  ;  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  immediately. 

401.  Ground  Rice  Cake. — Six  ounces  of  ground  rice,  sis  ounces 
of  flour,  four  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
clean  dripping,  a  small  piece  of  volatile  salts;  beat  all  well  together, 
bake  one  hour  in  a  pan.  A  few  currants  may  be  added,  and 
also  a  little  milk,  if  required. 

SERIES  OF  BREAD. 

402.  The  bread  which  I  strongly  recommend  for  the  labouring 
class,  or  those  who  shall  get  their  bread  "by  the  sweat  of  then  brow/' 
is  that  made  from  unbolted  flour,  or  whole  meal.  It  is  only  the 
effeminate  and  delicate  that  should  partake  of  fine  flour.  The  mass 
of  bread  is  increased  one  fifth,  and  the  price  lowered,  between  the 
difference  of  the  price  of  bran  as  flour,  or  as  fodder  for  cattle. 

Liebig  says,  "  The  separation  of  the  bran  from  the  flour  by  bolting, 
is  a  matter  of  luxury,  and  injurious  rather  than  beneficial  as  regards 
the  nutritive  power  of  the  bread." 

It  is  only  in  more  modern  times  the  sifted  flour  has  been  known 
and  used,  and  has  been  followed  by  the  poor,  to  imitate  the  luxury  of 
the  wealthy,  at  the  expense  of  their  health.  Certain  it  is,  that 
where  whole  meal  is  used  as  bread,  the  population  have  better  diges- 
tive organs  than  where  it  is  not. 

In  Ireland,  amongst  the  poor,  it  is  almost  a  disgrace  to  eat  brown 
bread.  During  the  year  of  the  famine,  being  at  Malahide,  I  saw  a 
female,  without  shoos  or  stockings,  go  into  a  baker's  shop,  purchase 
two  loaves,  one  white,  and  the  other  brown ;  the  white  she  carried 
■  in  her  hand,  the  brown  she  hid  under  her  everlasting  cloak — her 
pride  would  not  allov/  it  to  be  seen.  These  ignorant  people  should  be 
told  that  there  is  hardly  a  family  in  England  but  what  have  on  their 
table  for  breakfast  and  tea  a  loaf  of  each  kind  of  bii^^ad,  white  or 
brow^n. 

If  the  dough  is  made  and  well  raised  in  tlio  pan,  if  in  small  quan- 
tities, as  for  buns,  &c.  throw  some  fiour  on  the  table,  put  the  dough  . 


BREAD.  147 

over,  and  roll  it  several  times  to iorm  it  solid;  tlien  sliape  tlie  loaf  c? 
bun;  let  tliem  rise  twenty  minutes  in  a  warm  place,  and  bake 
■according  to  size. 

403.  Cottage  Bread,  No,  1. — Put  into  a  large  pan  fourteeiz 
pounds  of  flour,  add  to  one  quart  of  warm  water  a  quarter  of 
pint  of  brewer's  yeast,  or  two  ounces  of  German  yeast,  make  ; 
hole  in  the  flour,  and  pour  in  the  water  and  the  yeast ;  stir  it 
well  up  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it  forms  a  thickish  paste,  throw 
a  little  flour  over,  and  leave  it  in  a  warm  room ;  in  about  one 
hour  or  seventy-five  minutes  it  will  have  risen  and  burst 
through  the  covering  of  flour,  then  add  more  warm  water  and 
four  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  until  it  forms,  when  kneaded,  a  rather 
stiff  dough ;  it  cannot  be  too  much  worked ;  then  let  it  remain 
covered  with  a  cloth  for  about  another  hour,  or  an  hour  and  a 
half;  the  time,  as  well  as  the  quantity  of  water  it  takes,  depends 

^  greatly  on  the  quality  of  the  i^ur.     Cold  water  may  be  used  in 
summer. 

Then  divide  the  dough  into  five  pieces;  if  the  flour  is  old 
and  good  they  will  weigh  four  pounds  each,  and  take  about  one 
hour  and  forty  minutes  to  bake;  the  oven  should  be  well 
heated,  and  sufficiently  large  to  bake  the  quantity  of  dough  you 
make  at  one  time ;  if  the  oven  is  small,  make  only  half  the 
quantity ;  the  door  should  be  well  closed.  If  the  bottom  of  the 
oven  is  too  hot,  a  tile  placed  on  it  will  prevent  too  much  bottom 
crust ;  or  a  baking  sheet,  kept  half  an  inch  above  the  bottom  of 
the  oven,  will  have  the  same  effect. 

In  some  places  they  bake  in  tins,  in  others  in  brown  pans ;  if 
so,  the  dough  may  be  made  softer,  and  allowed  to  rise  a  little 
longer,  though  I  do  not  approve  of  bread  being  too  light,  as  it  is 

,  both  tasteless  and  unprofitable. 

404.  mile  Bread  and  Molls.— 'Weigh,  a  pound  of  flom%  put 
it  on  the  table -dresser,  or  in  a  pan,  make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  put 
in  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  German  yeast,  one  egg^  two  ounces  ox 
butter,  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  have  half 
a  pint  of  warm  milk,  put  a  little  in,  mix  all  well  together,  they 
add  by  degrees  the  flour,  and  also  the  milk ;  it  may  not  take  the 
half  pint,  but  depends  on  the  flour ;  stir  all  well,  work  it  for  a 
few  minutes,  until  it  is  a  stiff"  dough ;  take  a  little  flour  and  rub 
off"  the  paste  vv^hich  attaches  to  the  side  of  the  basin,  roll  it 
round,  throw  some  flour  on  the  bottom  of  the  basin,  put  in  the 
dough,  keep  it  in  a  warm  place  for  two  hour^  or  till  it  ha»3 


148  =  BREAD« 

nicely  risen,  tlien  throw  some  flour  on  tlie  board,  cut  the  paste 
off  in  the  size  of  eggs,  flatten  them  with  the  hand,  make  them 
long  and  pointed,  and  make  a  line  in  the  centre  with  the  back  of 
the  knife,  egg  over  with  a  paste-brush,  let  them  rise  half  an 
hour  longer  in  a  warm  place,  bake  twenty  minutes  in  rather  a 
sharp  oven.  They  ought  to  be  of  a  nice  yellow  colour,  and 
light.  If  the  yeast  is  doubtful,  add  a  little  more ;  brown  yeast 
is  preferable. 

Another  plainer,  Wo.  2.— Put  in  the  centre  of  the  flour  two 
ounces  of  lard,  or  good  drij)ping,  then  add  an  ounce  of  German 
yeast,  a  little  salt,  a  little  tepid  water,  with  which  dissolve 
both  yeast  and  lard ;  mix  it  with  the  flour. 

405.  Flainer  still,  Wo,  3.— Put  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
yeast,  salt,  sugar  as  above,  add  half  a  pint  of  tepid  water, 
proceed  as  above ;  sugar  may  be  omitted ;  or  make  a  single  loaf 
of  it  in  a  tin  pan,  or  roll  it  into  a  lump ;  make  a  cross  at  the  top 
with  a  sharp  knife,  egg  over,  or  milk  and  water ;  bake  in  rather 
sharp  oven,  which  is  easily  ascertained  by  placing  the  hand  on  it  ; 
if  you  cannot  endure  it  for  a  quarter  of  a  minute  it  is  fit  for 
bread,  but  if  it  burns  it  is  too  hot. 

406.  The  brown  bread,  or  that  made  from  whole  meal,  is  done 
in  the  same  way ;  the  sponge  will  take  a  little  longer  to  rise. 

Milk  used  in  these  breads  will  occasion  it  to  go  a  little 
further,  and  keep  it  moist  longer ;  one  pint  is  suflicient,  and  you 
get  one  pound  more  bread ;  it  also  improves  bad  flour,  from  the 
addition  of  gluten  in  the  milk.  A  little  potato^  starch  or  rice 
starch  will  improve  bad  flour,  and  occasiqn  it  to  rise  better. 

The  following  are  two  variations  for  these  breads: — Pat 
seven  pounds  of  flour  into  a  pan,  mix  with  three  pints  of  warm 
milk  or  water,  an  ounce  of  yeast,  one  ounce  of  salt,  mix  well 
with  the  flour,  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  three  hours,  form  into 
small  loves  and  bake  at  once. 

407.  Eice  JBread.— To  fourteen  pounds  of  dough  add  one 
pound  of  ground  rice,  boiled  in  mHk  until  in  pulp  and  cold  5 
bake  in  small  loaves. 

408.  JBrown  Bye  Bread.— To  three  pounds  of  flour  add  one 
pound  of  rye  flour,  the  proportions  of  yeast,  salt  and  water  as 
above,  and  may  be  mixad  all  at  once  j  it  wiU  take  a  little  longer 
to  bake. 


A  SERIES  OF  SAUCES.  149 

409.  Good  Keeping  JBread. — Mix  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
':  very  light  mashed  potatoes  with  four  pounds  of  flour,  made  into 
'dough  for  bread,  is  very  good;  this  kind  of  bread  will  keep 
i  moist  for  a  long  time. 


SAUCES. 

410.  Melted  BuUer, — From  whence  is  this  extraordinary  v/ord 
derived  ?  what  learned  pundit  could  have  given  it  birth  ? — a  word 
which  recalls  so  many  pleasing  moments,  when  the  palate  has  been 

\  gratified  by  its  peculiar  fragrance  and  taste.     It  is,  no  doubt,  an  im- 

j  portation  at  the  time  of  the  Conquest,  but  although  having  been 
domesticated  amongst  us  for  near  800  years,  we  are  very  far  behind 
our  allies  on  the  other  side  of  the  channel  in  its  numerous  adaptations 
and  applications.  The  great  diplomatist,  Talleyrand,  used  to  say, 
that  England  had  120  religions,  but  only  one  sauce,  and  that 
melted  butter.  He  was  very  near  the  truth,  but,  at  the  same  time, 
he  should  have  told  how  to  engraft  119  sauces  to  the  original 
one,  the  same  as  the  various  sects  he  mentions,  have  been  offshoots 
from  the  primitive  one  which  was  first  established  in  this  country. 

I  will  now  endeavour  to  prevent  his  words  being  any  longer  a 
truism,  and  will  point  out  how  that  one  sauce — melted  butter  (French 
butter  sauce) — can  be  multipHed  ad  wfinitum,  according  to  the  ability 
of  the  artist. 

I  must  first  premise  that  my  melted  butter  is  not  for  the  table  of 
the  wealthy,  but  the  simple  artizan.  It  is  not  to  consist  of  two- 
thirds  butter  and  one-third  cream,  warmed  gradually  with  a  box 
spoon,  but  of  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  two  ounces  of  flour,  half  a 

( teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  that  of  pepper,  mixed  together  with 
a  spoon,  put  into  a  quart  pan,  with  a  pint  of  cold  water;  place 
tt  on  the  fire,  and  stir  continually,  take  it  out  when  it  begins  to 

!  simmer,  then  add  one  more  ounce  of  butter,  stir  till  melted,  and 
it  is  ready  for  use,  or  as  the  foundation  of  the  following  various 

I  sauces. 

This  melted  butter  is  fit  to  serve  at  the  best  tables,  by  adding  ^ 
liJiree  ounces  of  butter ;  take,  as  a  guide,  that  the  back  of  the  spooiv 
•  m  being  removed,  should  always  be  covered  with  ths  butter  or  sauce ; 
this  is  esscTitial,  as  I  find  that  flour  Varies  very  much.     If  jou  let 
it  boil,  it  will  immediately  get  thinner.-^  ' 

Melted  Butter,  No.  2. — The  following  is  also  very  good  as  the' 
I  foimdation  of  sauces — it  is  not  so  ?ichj  aiKl  will  keep  longer :  One 


150  A  SERIES  OF  SAUCES. 

ounce  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  of  flour,  a  little  more  salt,  pepper 
and  a  gill  more  water ;  simmer,  and  serve. 

These  melted  batters  may  be  unproved  slightly  by  adding  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 

With  half  of  the  above  quantity  make  the  following  sauces.  Each. 
kigredient  to  be  mixed  in  the  saucepan.  Stir  and  serve  when  nearly 
boiling. 

411,  SERIES  OF  SAUCES. 

Ancliovy  Sauce, — Add  two  tablespoonsful  of  essence  of  anchovies, 
find  mix  well. 

Harvey's  Sauce, — The  same  of  Harvey's  sauce. 

Soyer's  Relish. — The  same  of  Soyer's  relish. 

Soyer's  Mustard  Sauce, — One  teaspoonful  of  Soyer's  mustard. 

Chili  Vinegar, — Three  teaspoonsful  of  Chili  vinegar. 

^gg  Sauce, — Two  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  dice  and  added. 

Ca]per  Sauce, — Two  tablespoonsful  of  chopped  capers  added :  ii 
AC  capers,  use  pickled  gherkins. 

Fennell  Sauce, — The  same  of  chopped  fennel. 

Parsley  and  Butter, — The  same  of  chopped  parsley. 

Mild  Onion  Sauce, — Boil  four  onions  in  salt  and  water,  take  them 
out,  chop  them  up,  and  add  them  to  the  above  with  a  little  more  salt, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  milk  or  cream. 

Sage  and  Onion, — To  the  above,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  green 
sage  and  a  little  more  pepper. 

White  Sauce, — The  yolk  of  one  q^%,  and  mix  with  milk  or  cream 
instead  of  water.     A  blade  of  mace  is  an  improvement  when  boiling , 

and  stir. 

Celery  Sauce, — Boil  in  a  half-pint  of  white  gravy,  if  handy,  if  not, 
water,  one  fine  head  of  celery,  cut  in  onp  inch  lengths  and  well 
washed, — it  will  take  about  twenty  minutes, — add  it  to  the  melted 
butter.  The  yolk  of  an  q^^  beat  up  and  stirred  in  is  an  improvement  ^ 
it  may  require  a  little  more  salt.     Serve  with  poultry. 

Cucumber  Sauce, — Cut  up  two  cucumbers  lengthways,  remove  the 
seeds,  cut  them  in  one  inch  pieces,  boil  them  in  a  gill  of  white  gravy, 
with  salt  and  pepper,  add  it  to  the  melted  butter  5  simmer  and 
©erve.     Sugar  is  an  improvement. 

Vegetable  Marrow,  when  young,  the  same  as  above, 

412.  Brown  Sauce, — Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  buit^  and  eiglit  i 
ounces  nf  flour  in  a  saucepanj  and  set  it  on  a  slow  fire  j  keep  stirring; 


k  SERIES  OF  SAUCES. 


151 


m  tQr\  minutes,  or  till  liglit  brown,  then  tsk^,  it  oi?  md  let  it  get 
"lieariy  cold,  then  pour  over  sufficient  brown  stock,  Eo.  2,  to  make 
it  a  nice  tiiicknesa,  or  like  tbinnisli  melted  butter ;  tlien  boil  for  Imlf 
an  liour,  skiin,  strain  it  into  a  basin,  and  use  wbere  and  when 
required.  If  you  liave  this  sauce  by  you,  use  it  instead  of  melted 
butter  for  brown  sauces.  To  make  it  darker,  a  little  colouring  may 
be  added. 

41 S.  White  Sauce, — Put  into  a  convenient  sized  stew  pan  four 
ounces  of  butter,  and  eight  ounces  of  flour ;  set  on  fire,  keep  stirring 
as  above;  take  the  pan  from  the  fire  and  stir  until  nearly  cool,  then 
pour  on  sufficient  white  stock.  No.  1,  until  it  is  a  nice  consistency 
put  it  on  the  fire  and  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  keep  stirring 
conthiually;  pass  it  through  a  sieve,  and  keep  for  use. 

Half  a  pint  of  boiled  milk  will  make  it  look  whiter. 

This  sauce,  when  handy,  is  the  foundation  of  all  white  sauces,  for 
celery,  caulifiovt^er,  mushroom,  cucumber,  vegetable  marrow,  &c.,  or 
any  white  sauces,  instead  of  using  melted  butter.  Observe,  Eloise, 
that  I  only  send  you  these  two  preceding  sauces  in  the  event  of  a 
little  dinner  party,  as  they  belong  to  a  higher  class  of  cookery. 


FISH  SAUCES. 

Shrimp  Sauce, — Pick  half  a  pint  of  shrimps,  and  boil  the  skins 
in  a  gill  of  water  for  fifteen  minutes ;  strain  the  water,  and  add  it, 
with  the  flesh  of  the  shrimps,  to  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  and 
simmer  for  a  few  minutes.     Add  a  little  anchovy. 

Lolster  Sauce, — Get  the  raw  eggs,  or  the  inside  spawn  of  the 
lobster,  put  them  on  a  plate  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  with  the  blade 
of  a  kniie  mash  them,  or  pound  them  in  a  mortar ;  this,  when  put 
Into  the  hot  melted  butter,  will  make  it  red.  Cat  the  lobster  up 
in  small  pieces,  and  add  the  soft  part  from  the  belly  with  it  to  the 
melted  butter  (a  middling  sized  lobster  will  make  a  quart  of  sauce), 
,  A  little  cayenne  or  Harvey's  sauce  is  relishing.     Boil  and  serve. 

Cral  and  Crayfish, — The  same  as  lobster. 

Mussel  and  Ot/ster,—0^en  twelve  oysters  or  thirty-six  mussels, 

1  beard,  and  blanch  them  lightly  in  their  own  liquor ;  take  tliem  out, 

I  ieduce  the  liquor,  and  add  them  to  the  half-pint  of  melted  .butter; 

«rhcn  boiling  add  a  little  cayenne,  and  one  ounce  of  butter*    A  drop 

;  of  cream  or  boiling  milk  will  improve  it.     Or,  M^li  en  your  oysters  aro 

taw  in  the  pan,  add  half  a  gill  of  milk  and  a  few  Jjeppercorns;  blancli 

Bghtly,  mix  half  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter, 

put  in  bit  by  bit,  stir  round,  boil,  and  serve.     A  little  cayenne  will 

improve  it,  also  a  drop  of  cream. 


152  A  SERIES  OF  Sauces. 

Cod-Liver  Sauce. — Half  a  pound  of  cod-livei^,  previously  boDof', 
cut  ill  large  dice,  with  a  little  anchovy  sauce,  to  half  a  pint  of  melted 
butter.     Mix  the  same  as  Ho.  410. 

Tickle  Sauce, — One  tablespoonful  of  chopped  pickle  or  piccallily, 
one  ditto  of  the  vinegar  from  it ;  add  to  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter, 
and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.     Good  for  fish,  meat,  and  poultryc 

414.  Apple  Sauce.~Peel  six  good-sized  apples,  cut  in  four  pieces, 
cut  out  the  core,  slice  them  fine,  put  into  a  stew  pan  with  one  ounce 
of  brown  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water;  stew  till  in  pul]3,  and  serve  v/ith 
roast  pork,  goose,  and  duck. 

415.  Mini  Sauce. — Chop  three  tablespoonfuls  of  green  mint,  put 
it  into  a  basin  with  three  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  quarter  of  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Use  it  with  roast 
lamb ;  also  good  with  cold  meat  and  poultry. 

416.  Horseradish  Sauce,-— Grate  two  tablespoonfuls  of  horse- 
radish, which  put  into  a  basin ;  add  to  it  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
one  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  pepper,  one  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar;  moisten  with  a  little  n^Uk  or  cream  until  of  a  thickish 
appearance.     Serve  with  rumpsteak,  cold  meat,  &c. 

417.  Wine  and  Sjirit  Sauce. — Add  to  half  a  pint  of  melted 
butter,  without  salt,  two  tea  spoonfuls  of  white  or  brown  sugar,  a 
glass  of  brandy,  or  rum,  or  sherry,  or  any  liquors. 

418.  Hotel  Keeper's  Sauce. — Mix  in  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter 
one  tablespoonful  of  hotel  keeper's  butter,  No.  426 ;  warm  it  anc? 
serve. 

419.  A  Wliite  Sauce  for  loiled  Foivls,  &c.  &c. — If  for  two  fowls, 
ndd  to  one  pint  of  melted  butter  (No.  410)  two  yolks  of  raw  eggs, 
which  mix  well  with  a  gill  of  cream,  or  milk,  and  when  the  melted 
batter  is  near  boiling  mix  in  and  stir  very  quick,  do  not  let  it  boil ; 
f  dd  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  stir  in  a  little  more  butter,  season 
vnth  a  little  more  white  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  pour 
over  your  poultry.  ^  This  is  not  an  every  day  sauce,  but  is  exceedingly 
useful  to  know. 

A  little  chopped  parsley,  ham,  or  tongue  sprinkled  over  the  fowl 
after  the  sauce  is  on,  gives  it  a  pleasing  appearance. 

Or  parsley  chopped  fine,  or  capers,  gherkins,  mushrooms,  or  tongue 
cut  into  dice,  or  green  peas,  may  be  added  to  this  sauce  to  change  it. 

420.  A  sharp  Brown  Sauce  for  Iroiled  Fowls  and  Meat. — Put  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  onions  into  a  stew  pan  with  one  of  Chili ; 
vinegar,  oe«  of  common  vinegar,  one  of  colouring,  three  of  water 


OF  SAUCES.  153 

tw5  of  musliroom  ketcliup,  two  of  Harvey's  sauce,  one  of  ancliovy, 
and  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  No.  2 ;  let  it  simmer  until  it  becomes 
rather  thick  to  adhere  to  the  back  of  the  spoon,  add  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar.  This  is  excellent  to  almost  all  kinds  of  broiled  meats, 
and  gives  a  nice  relish  to  stews,  fish,  poultry,  &c. 

421*  The  same  simplified. — Put  into  a  pan  one  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  onion,  three  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  of  colouring,  six  of 
water,  three  of  either  Harvey's  sauce,  or  ketchup,  a  little  pepper  and 
ealt,  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  boil  till  thickish ;  serve  for  the  same  as 
above. 

422.  Onion  Sauce,— Veol  and  cut  six  onions  m  slices;  put  in  a 
stew  pan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  teaspoonfiil  of  salt,  one  of 
sugar,  a  half  one  of  pepper ;  place  on  a  slow  fire  to  simmer  till  in  a 
pulp,  stirring  them  now  and  then  to  prevent  them  getting  brown, 
then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  pint  of  milk,  and  boil  till  a 
proper  thickness,  which  should  be  a  little  thicker  than  melted  butter; 
serve  with  mutton  cutlets,  chops,  boiled  rabbits,  or  fowl;  by  not 
passing  it,  it  will  do  for  roast  mutton  and  boiled  rabbit  as  onion 
sauce. 

423.  Caper  Sauce. — Put  twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter 
into  a  stew  pan,  place  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  on  the  point  of  boiling, 
add  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  capers ;  shake 
the  stew  pan  round  over  the  fire  until  the  butter  is  melted,  add  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  where  directed. 

424.  Cream  Sauce. — Put  two  yolks  of  eggs  in  the  bottom  of  a 
stew  pan,  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  little  white  pepper,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  hard  fresh  butter ; 
place  the  stew  pan  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  commence  stirring  with 

1  a  wooden  spoon,  (taking  it  from  the  fire  now  and  then  when  getting 
I  too  hot,)  until  the  butter  has  gradually  melted  and  thickened  with 
'  the  eggs — (great  care  must  be  exercised,  for  if  it  should  become  too 
1  liot  the  eggs  would  curdle,  and  render  the  sauce  useless ;)  then  add 
\  ^alf  a  pint  of  melted  butter ;  stir  altogether  over  the  fire,  without 
I  permitting  it  to  boiL  This  sauce  may  be  served  with  any  description 
I  of  boiled  fish,  poultry,  meat,  or  vegetables. 

425.  Mustard  Sauce, — Put  in  a  stew  pan  four  tablespoonfuls  ol 
l^opped  onions  (No.  449),  v/ith  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  put  on  the 

I  ^re  and  stir  till  it  gets  rather  hot,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
(  mixed  well,  also  half  a  pint  of  milk  or  broth  (No.  1) ;  let  the 
r  whole  boil  ten  minutes,  season  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
(j  quarter  that  of  pepper,  a  little  sugar,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
'  French  or  English  mustard ;  when  it  bpils  it  is  ready. 


154:  A  SERIES  OP  SAUCES. 

425a.  Blade  BuUer, — Put  two  ounces  of  salt  butter  in  a  etew 
pan,  set  it  on  the  fire;  when  it  gets  hot  and  brown  add  about 
twenty  parsley  leaves,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  that  o! 
pepper,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  let  the  whole  boil  on3 
minute  and  pour  over  any  article  suitable  for  this  kind  of  sauce. 

425b.  CuTTy  Scmee.^'^'Peel  and  cut  two  middling  sized  onions 
in  slices,  one  apple  cut  in  dice,  and  two  ounces  of  bacon ;  put  them 
into  an  iron  stew  pan,  with  one  ounce  of  butter  or  fat,  put  on  the 
■Ore,  stir  round  for  five  or  six  minutes,  then  add  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
flour,  one  of  curry  powder,  mixed  well;  moisten  with  a  pint  of  milk, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  of  sugar ;  boil  till  rather  thick, 
and  serve  over  any  article  suitable  for  its  use. 

If  passed  through  a  sieve,  put  it  back  into  the  stew  pan,  let  it  boil 
one  minute,  and  skim  it,  will  be  a  very  great  improvement.  Curry 
paste  may  be  used.     Broth  or  water  may  be  used. 

425c.  A  simpler  Manner^'—Ay^les  and  onions  may  both  be  used, 
as  also  a  pint  of  melted  butter  (No.  410).    In  this  no  flour  need  be  : 

used. 

425e.  Bread  Sauce. '-^Tni  in  a  stew  pan  four  tablespoonfuls  of  I 
h'ead  crumbs,  a  quarter  of  one  of  salt,  half  that  of  pepper,  ten  pepper  J 
corns,  peel  a  small  onion,  cut  in  fom%  add  a  pint  of  milk,  half  an 
ounce  of  butter ;  boil  tor  ten  minutes,  when  it  ought  to  turn  out  a 
tliickish  sauce. 

Important  Ohservation. — It  will  be  seen  that  in  the  above  sauces 
there  is  hardly  any  but  the  three  first  which  may  not  be  made 
with  the  produce  of  the  cottage  garden,  or  of  those  articles  which . 
are  in  daily  use,  and  if  these  directions  are  followed,  many  a  hon 
vivant  in  London  would  often  envy  the  cooking  of  the  cottage,  as  it  j 
would  contain  the  freshness  and  aroma  of  fresh  gathered  vegetables. 

426.  Hotel  Keeper^ s  Butter, — This  is  very  simple  and  good,  and  | 
will  keep  potted  for  a  long  time.  It  is  excellent  with  all  broiled  ■ 
meats. 

Put  on  a  plate  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  a  quarter  of  a  - 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  ditto  of  pepper,  two  of  chopped  parsley, 
the  juice  of  a  middle  sized  lemon  (if  no  lemon,  use  vinegar);  a  littlii 
grated  nutmeg  may  be  added. 

427.  Anchovy  Butter. — To  a  quarter  of  a  pouiid  of  butter,  tfvf 
tablespoonfuls  of  anchovy  sauce* 


A  SHEIES  OF  SAI.ADS.  1§5 


ON  SALADS. 

What  is  more  refresliing  than  salads  wlien  your  appetite  seems  tn 
have  deserted  you,  or  even  after  a  capacloiss  dinner — the  nice,  fresh* 
green,  and  crisp  salad,  full  of  life  and  health,  which  seems  to  invigo- 
rate the  palate  and  dispose  the  masticating  powers  to  a  much  longer 
duration.  The  herbaceous  plants  which  exist  Ht  for  food  for  man, 
are  more  numerous  than  may  be  imagined,  and  when  we  reflect  how 
many  of  these,  for  want  of  knov/ledge,  are  allowed  to  rot  and  decom- 
pose in  the  fields  and  gardens,  we  ought,  without  loss  of  time,  to  make 
ourselves  acquainted  with  their  different  natures  and  forms,  and  vary 
our  food  as  the  season  changes. 

Although  nature  has  provided  all  these  different  herbs  and  plants 
as  food  for  man  at  various  periods  of  the  year,  and  perhaps  at  one 
period  more  abundant  than  another,  when  there  are  so  many  ready 
to  assist  in  purifying  and  cleansing  the  blood,  yet  it  would  be 
advisable  to  grow  some  at  other  seasons,  in  order  that  the  health 
may  be  properly  nourished. 

However,  at  what  period  of  the  year  or  at  what  time,  these  may 
be  partaken  of,  the  following  dressing  is  the  one  I  should  always 
recomxinend. 

In  my  description  of  salads,  I  have  advised  and  described  the  use 
of  them  as  plainly  dressed,  such  as  they  are  in  many  parts  of  Europe^ 
but  perhaps  many  of  our  readers  will  want  to  know  how  the  sauce  ig 
made  which  is  often  used  with  the  salad  herbs,  or  such  as  the  Italian , 
count  used  to  make  some  years  since,  by  which  he  made  a  fortune  in 
dressing  salads  for  the  tables  of  the  aristocracy.     It  is  as  follows  :— 

PLAIN  COSS  SALAD. 

428.  Cqss  Lettuce.^-^Take  two  large  lettuces,  remove  the  faded 
leaves  and  the  coarse  green  ones,  then  cut  the  green  top  off,  pull 
each  leaf  ofi'  separate,  cut  it  le7igthways,  and  then  in  four  or  six 
pieces;  proceed  thus  until  finished.  This  is  better  without; 
washing.  Having  cut  it  all  up  put  it  into  a  bowl ;  sprinkle  over 
with  your  finger  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  one  of  pepper, 
three  of  oil,  and  two  of  English  vinegar,  or  one  of  French ;  with 
the  spoon  and  fork  turn  the  salad  lightly  in  the  bowl  till  well 
mixed ;  the  less  it  is  handled  the  better ;  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
chervil  and  one  of  tarragon  is  an  immense  improvement. 

The  above  seasoiwig  is  enough  for  s,  quarter  of  ^  pound  of 
'^ttuce. 


156  A   SERIES   OF   SALADS. 

429.  Cahhage  Lettuce. — Proceed  tlio  same  as  above,  pull  of! 
llio  outer  leaves  and  throw  themawa}^,  take  off  the  others  one  by 
one,  and  cut  in  two,  put  them  in  a  pan  with  cold  water,  then 
drain  them  in  a  cloth,  by  shaking  it  to  and  fro  violently  with 
one  hand,  and  extract  all  the  water,  put  them  into  a  bowl,  and 
Ci'ason  and  dress  as  above. 

To  vary  them,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  quarters,  may  be 
added ;  a  little  eschalot,  a  few  chives,  or  young  onions. 

To  improve  the  appearance  of  these  salads,  when  on  the  table, 
before  being  used,  the  flower  of  the  nasturtium  may  be  inter- 
mixed with  taste  and  care,  with  a  little  cut  beetroot  and  slices  of  • 
radish.     These  are  refreshing  to  the  sight  on  a  table  or  side- 
board at  dinner ;  slices  of  cucumber  may  be  also  introduced. 

430.  JEndive. — This  ought  to  be  nicely  bhmched  and  crisp, 
and  is  the  most  wholesome  of  all  salads.  Take  two,  cut  away 
the  root,  remove  the  dark  green  leaves,  and  pick  off  all  the  rest, 
wash  and  drain  well,  dress  as  before ;  a  few  chives  is  an  improve- 
ment. 

431.  FrencJi  Fashion. — Put  in  one  clove  of  garlic,  or  rub  a 
piece  of  crust  of  bread  slightly  Avith  it,  or  the  salad-bowl,  mix 
the  salad  in  the  bowl  as  before;  if  rubbed  slightly  on  the  bread 
mix  it  with  it.  If  properly  contrived,  it  gives  a  flavour,  which 
no  one  can  detect.  Tarragon  or  chervil  may  be  used  in  these 
salads. 

432.  Marsh  Mallow. — The  roots  of  these  should  be  removed, 
as  likewise  the  faded  leaves ;  dress  as  for  lettuce  No.  428 ,  eggs 
and  beetroot  may  be  introduced  in  this,  being  almost  a  winter 
salad. 

Dandelion,  or  dent-de-lion,  should  not  remain  long  in  water, 
as  they  will  get  too  bitter ;  dress  them  as  endive. 
Cow  salad  the  same  way. 
Watercresses  the  same,  with  a  little  cucumber  and  celery. 

433.  Mustard  and  Cress. — These,  if  eaten  alone,  make  an 
excellent  salad  ;  tTiey  should  be  quickly  washed  and  used,  dressed 
as  lettuc50.  A  little  tarragon  cr  chervil,  or  a  few  chives,  may  be 
used. 

434.  Salad  Sauce. — Boll  one  egg  hard,  when  cold  reiwove  the  ; 
yollc,  put  it  into  a  basin,  bruise  it  to  a  pulp  with  a  spoon, — do  not 
use  iron,  prefer  wood,— then  add  a.  raw  yolk  and  a  teaspoonful  Qt  - 


A  SEIlitiS  OP  SALADS.  Ifil 

flour,  a,  small  teaspoonfal  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  pepper,  then  add  half  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar ;  stir  it  round,  pour  over  a  tablespoonful  of  oil  by- 
degrees,  keep  stirring,  then  a  little  more  vinegar,  two  more  of  oil, 
until  eight  teaspoonfuls  of  oil  and  three  of  vinegar  are  used;  season 
with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onions,  two  of  parsley,  half  of 
tarragon  and  chervil,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  six  teaspoonfuls  of  melted 
butter  cold.  The  white  of  the  egg  may  be  chopped  up  and  added. 
It  will  keep  for  some  time  if  properly  corked,  and  may  be  used  ia 
proportion  with  any  of  the  above  salads ;  but  still  1  must  say  I  prefer 
the  simplicity  and  skill  of  the  Italian  count's  in  preference  to  this, 
although  this  is  very  palatable.   A  gill  of  whipped  cream  is  good  in  it, 

435.  Vegetable  for  Salads. — Beetroot,  onions,  potatoes, 
celery,  cucumbers,  lentils,  haricots,  succory,  or  barbe-de-capucin, 
winter  cress,  burnet,  tansey,  marigold,  peas,  French  beans, 
radish,  cauliflower ;  all  the  above  may  be  used  judiciously  in  salad, 
if  properly  seasoned,  according  to  the  following  directions : — 

435a.  Saricot  and  Lentil  Salad.-^To  a  pint  of  well-boiled 
haricots,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  of  pepper,  one  ot 
chopped  onions,  two  of  vinegar,  four  of  oil,  two  of  chopped 
parsley,  stir  round,  and  it  is  ready ;  lentils  are  done  the  same. 
A  little  cold  meat,  cut  in  thin  slices,  may  be  added  as  a  variety. 

436.  Beetroot  Salad  with  Onions.-— 'EoW  four  onions  in  the 
skin  till  tender,  also  a  piece  of  beetroot;  let  both  get  cold; 
remove  the  skin,  cut  them  in  slices,  put  them  in  a  plate,  one  slice 
on  the  edge  of  the  other  alternately ;  put  into  a  small  basin  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  pepper,  one  of  good  vinegar, 
three  of  oil,  mix  them  well ;  pour  over  when  ready  to  serve. 

Celery,  Young  Onions,  and  Radishes  may  be  used  in  salad 
with  the  above  dressing,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 

Cucio7nhers. — Cut  in  thin  slices  on  a  plate,  with  salt,  pepper 
oil,  and  vinegar  in  proportion  to  the  above  directions. 

Green  French  Beans. — ^When  cold  put  into  a  bowl,  with  som 
tarragon,  chervil,  and  chopped  chives,  dressed  as  before. 

Brussels  Sprouts,  the  same  way. 

437.  Potatoes. — If  any  remaining,  cut  them  into  thin  slices, 
I  and  season  as  befoie.  A  few  haricots,  or  cold  raeat,  or  a 
I  chopped  gherkin,  may  be  added. 


158  A  SEEIES  OF  SALABS. 

438.  Meat  mid  FoiUtr^.-^J-ii  there  are  any  of  tlie  above  left, 
and  you  require  a  relishing  dish,  and  not  having  any  fresh 
salad  herbs,  proceed  as  for  the  other  salads,  using  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  onions,  or  pickles.  Some  cucumber  or  celery  may  ba 
used.     The  meat  or  poultry  should  be  cut  small. 

439.  Fisli  Salad,— A  very  nice  and  elegant  dish  may  bs 
^nade  with  all  kinds  of  cold  fisk,  and  some  kinds  of  shell-fish 
but  the  following  way  of  dressing  is  for  a  small  Lobster  Salad, 
and  will  do  for  all  fish  salads :  Have  the  bowl  half  filled  with 
mj  kind  of  salad  herb  you  like,  either  endive  or  lettuce,  &c. 
Then  break  a  lobster  in  two,  open  the  tail,  extract  the  meat  in 
one  piece,  break  the  claws,  cut  the  meat  of  both  in  small  slices, 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  arrange  these  tastefully  on 
the  salad,  take  out  all  the  soft  part  from  the  belly,  mix  it  in  a 
bason  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  of  pepper,  four  of  vinegar, 
four  of  oil ;  stir  it  well  together,  and  pour  on  the  salad ;  then 
cover  it  with  two  hard  eggs,  cut  in  slices,  a  few  slices  of  cucum- 
ber, and,  to  vary,  a  few  capers  and  some  fillets  of  anchovy ;  stir 
lightly,  and  serve,  or  use  salad  sauce,  JSTo.  434. 

If  for  a  dinner,  ornament  it  with  some  flowers  of  the  nas- 
turtium and  marigold. 

440.  Crah  Salad, — ^The  same  as  the  lobster. 

l?3mains  of  cold  cod,  fried  soles,  halibut,  brill,  turbot,  stur- 
geon cut  as  lobster,  plaice,  &g.,  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Ma  cheee  Eloise, — In  the  foregoing  receipts  you  will  perceive 
that  I  have  used  each  salad  herb  separate,  only  mixing  them  with 
the  condiments  or  with  vegetable  frait.  I  have  a  strong  objection 
to  the  almost  diabolical  mixture  of  four  or  five  difierenfc  sorts  of 
salad  in  one  bov/1,  and  then  chopping  them  as  fine  as  possible ;  the 
freshness  as  well  as  the  flavour  of  each  is  destroyed;  they  agree 
ibout  as  well  together  as  would  brandy  and  soda  water  mixed  with 
gin  and  gingerbeer,  for  each  salad  herb  has  its  own  particular  flavour, 
and  the  condiments,  which  are  onions,  chives,  parsley,  chervil,  tarra- 
gon, celery,  eschalot,  garlic,  cucumber,  beetroot,  &c,  &c.  are  oiilj  to 
give  it  piquancy  like  the  oil  and  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Mustard  and  cress  and  water  cresses  may  be  considered  as  a  slight 
<?ondiment,  hnt  should  be  used  accordingly.  It  is  remarkable  that 
though  the  iiiliabitants  of  this  country  were  for  so  many  centuries 
(from  the  nature  of  the  climate)  a  salad-eating  people,  yet  they  seem 
the  least  to  know  how  to  season  them.    Until  the  introduction  of 


RELISHES,  159 

the  potato,  in  1650,  and  wliich  was  first  eaten  as  a  sweetmeat,  stewed 
in  sack  wine  and  sugar,  the  various  salads  were  in  common  use  oh 
tlie  tables  in  Britain,  of  which  country  most  of  the  plants  an 
indigenous. 

EELISHES. 

441.  Herring  m  ll^^5%.-— Well  wash,  and  clean  a  red 
herring,  wipe  it  dry  and  place  it  in  a  pie-dish,  having  cut  ofT 
the  head,  and  split  it  in  two  up  the  back ;  put  a  gill  or  two  oi 
whisky  over  the  herring,  according  to  size,  hold  it  on  one  side 
of  the  dish,  so  that  it  is  covered  with  the  spirit,  set  it  alight, 
and  when  it  goes  out  the  iish  is  done. 

442.  Devilled  ^ow^^.— Take  the  bones  of  any  remaining 
joint  or  poultry,  which  has  still  some  meat  on,  which  cut  across 
slightly,  and  then  make  a  mixture  of  mustard,  salt,  cayenne,  and 
pepper,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup  to  two  of 
mustard  j  rub  the  bones  well  with  this,  and  broil  rather  brownish. 

MUSHROOMS,  OH  THE  ?EARL  OF  THE  FIELDS. 

I  HERE  send  you,  Eloise,  a  most  sumptuous  relish.  There  is  one 
dish  which  the  Devonshire  cottager  can  procure  and  enjoy  better 
than  even  the  most  wealthy  person.  It  is  the  mushroom.  After 
having  plucked  them,  perhaps  on  the  road  home  for  his  breakfast, 
broiled  them  over  a  nice  bright  iire,  seasoned  with  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  small  bit  of  butter  placed  inside  of  them ;  the  flavour  is 
then  pure  and  the  aroma  beautiful,  but  by  accident  I  discovered  a  new 
and  excellent  way  to  cook  them.  Being  in  Devonshire,  at  the  end  of 
September,  and  walking  across  the  fields  before  breakfast  to  a  small 
farmhouse,  I  found  three  very  fine  mushrooms,  which  I  thought 
would  be  a  treat,  but  on  arriving  at  the  house  I  found  it  had  no 
oven,  a  bad  gridiron,  and  a  smoky  coal  fire.  Necessity,  they  say, 
is  the  mother  of  Invention,  I  immediately  applied  to  our  grand  and 
universal  mamma,  how  I  should  dress  my  precious  mushrooms,  v/hen 
a  gentle  whisper  came  to  my  ear,  and  the  following  was  the  result. 

443.  I  first  cut  two  good  slices  of  bread,  half  an  inch  thick,  large 
enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  a  plate,  toasted  them,  and  spread 
iome  Devonshire  cream  over  the  toast.  I  removed  all  the  earthy 
part  from  the  mushroom,  and  laid  them  gently  on  the  tcast,  lieafl 
downwards,  slightly  sprinkled  them  v\^ith  salt  and  pepper,  and  placet! 
in  each  a  little  of  the  clotted  cream ;  I  then  put  a  tumbler  over  eacli 
and  placed  them  on  a  stand  before  the  fire,  and  kept  turning  tliem  so 
CIS  to  prevent  the  glass  breaking,  and  in  ten  to  fifteen  mj^i-ites  the  glass 


vl 


3.60  EEIISHES.  • 

was  filled  witli  vapaur,  wliicli  is  the  essence  of  the  mushroom;  when  it: 
is  taken  up,  do  not  remove  the  glass  for  a  Aiw  minutes,  by  which 
time  the  vapour  will  have  become  condensed  and  gone  into  the  breadj 
but  when  it  is,  the  aroma  is  so  powerful  as  to  pervade  the  whole 
Epartment. 

The  sight,  v.-hen  the  glass  is  removed,  is  most  inviting,  its  whiteness 
rivals  the  everlasting  snows  of  Mont  Blanc,  and  the  taste  is  worthy  of 
LucuUus.  /itellius  would  never  have  dined  without  it ;  Apicius  would 
nev(;r  have  gone  to  Greece  to  seek  for  crawfish;  and  had  he  only 
half  the  fortune  left  when  he  committed  suicide,  he  would  have  pre- 
ferred to  have  leffc  proud  Rome  and  retire  to  some  villa  or  cottage  to 
enjoy  such  an  enticing  dish. 

Tiierefore,  modern  gourm-cts,  never  fancy  that  you  have  tasted 
mushrooms  until  you  have  tried  this  simple  and  new  discovery. 
Remember  the  month — the  end  of  September  or  the  beginning  of 
October. 

As  Devonshire  cream  is  not  to  be  obtained  everywhere,  use  butter, 
or  boil  some  milk  till  reduced  to  cream,  with  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
and  one  clove ;  when  warm  put  in  an  ounce  of  butter,  mixed  with  a 
little  flour,  stir  round,  put  the  mushroom  on  the  toast  with  this  sauce, 
cover  with  a  basin,  and  place  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour.  In  this 
way  all  kinds  of  mushrooms  will  be  excellent.  They  may  be  put  into  i 
baking  pans  :  cover  with  a  tumbler  as  above,  and  bake  in  oven, 

444.   Welsh  Rahhit. — Toast  a  round  of  bread  from  a  quartern 
loaf;  put  about  four  ounces  of  cheese  into  a  small  saucepan  or  i 
pipkin  with  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,i 
and  a  wineglass  of  ale ;  break  the  cheese  small,  set  it  on  the  fire, 
and  stir  until  it  is  melted,  when  pour  over  the  toast,  and  serve 
quickly. 

2nd. — Toast  a  round  of  bread,  and  place  on  it  two  pieces  of' 
cheese,  single  Gloucester,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  place  it S 
before  the  fire,  and  as  the  cheese  melts,  spread  it  over  the  breads 
with  a  knife,  also  a  little  cayenne  and  mustard. 

?ircl. — Take  a  penny  French  roll,  cut  ofi*  a  thin  slice  from  one 
end,  and  take  out  some  of  the  crumb  and  place  it  in  the  oven.  Melt 
the  cheese  as  above,  and  pour  it  into  the  roll.  It  is  very 
good  for  a  journey,  or  a  sportsman,  and  can  be  eaten  cold. 

4-th,  or  Irish  'RaUhit. — Toast  a  round  of  bread ;  chop  u.p  four 
ounces  of  cheese,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  one  gherkin,  some 
mustard,  pepper,  and  salt,  until  it  is  quite  a  paste ;  spread  it  I 


CULINARY  MISCELLAls^EOUS.  161 

(lOver  tlie  toast,  and  place  tliem  in  the  oven  for  £ve  minutes,  and 
Berve  hot. 

445. — Mussels  may  be  eaten  plain.  Put  a  quart  of  them 
iin  a  pan,  after  being  well  washed,  with  some  onions  cut  in 

slices,  also  a  little  parsley ;  put  them  on  a  sharp  fire  for  ten 
] minutes,  when  they  will  all    open;    then   remove  the    beard 

and  black  part,  and  eat  them  plain  with  some  of  their  juice. 

446.  Oysters  on  Toast. — Open  twelve  very  large  oysters,  put 
I  them  in  a  pan  with  their  liquor,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
j  pepper,  a  wineglass  of  milk,  two  cloves,  and  a  small  piece  of 
r  mace,  if  handy ;  boil  a  fev/  minutes  until  set,  mix  one  ounce  of 

batter  with  half  an  ounce  of  flour,  put  it,  in  small  pieces,  in 
the  pan,  stir  round ;  when  near  boiling  pour  over  the  toast,  and 
serve.  A  little  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  is  a  great 
improvement. 

447.  Oysters iflain  5caZZ(5pec?,---Butter  and  bread  crumb  the 
scallop  shell,  put  in  six*  oysters,  season,  and  bread  crumb,  then 
six  more,  season  again,  and  bread  crumb;  if  a  large  shell,  six  more, 
with  a  little  cayenne  and  butter,  and  some  of  their  liquor ;  cover 
thick  with  bread  crumbs,  put  in  oven,  or  on  gridiron,  for  thirty 
minutes ;  brown  with  salamander,  or  on  a  shovel,  and  serve. 

These  may  also  be  done  in  patty  pans. 
Pieces  of  the  liver  of  the  cod,  put  into  boiling  water  and  set, 
^i  may  be  added  to  any  of  the  above  escalops. 

448.  Scallops.  —  Lobsters,  crabs,  and  crayfish  must  bo  first 
1  boiled,  the  flesh  removed  from  the  shell,  and  minced,  adding  a 
1  little  chopped  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  the  scallop  shell 
V  well  greased,  the  flesh  of  the  fish  laid  in,  well  bread  crumbed,  and 
I  put  in  the  oven  or  on  the  gridiron  for  thirty  minutes,  and  serve. 

These  require  a  little  more  pepper  or  cayenne  than  other  fish, 
Band  a  little  Chili  vinegar  may  be  added.  Two  spoonfuls  of 
I  melted  butter  mixed  with  the  fleoh  of  a  lobster  makes  it  very 
r  delicious. 

449.  How  to  chop  Onions.'— Yaw  persons  know  how  to  chop 
t  onious  properly.  In  the  first  place,  all  the  dry  skin  must  be 
I  removed,  then  a  thin  slice  off  the  top  and  bottom,  or  they  will 
t  oe  bitter,  then  cut  tliem  into  thin  slices,  dividmg  the  onion,  an4 


162  CULIKARl    MISCELLANEOUS. 

cut  crossways  to  form  dice.  If  a  very  sliglit  flavour  is  required, 
and  the  onion  is  strong,  like  in  the  north  of  England,  for  it 
must  be  remembered  that  the  further  north  you  go,  the 
stronger  the  flavour  of  the  root,  and  if  French  receipt  books 
are  exactly  copied,  it  is  no  wonder  that  complaints  are  made  oi 
the  preponderance  of  the  flavour  of  the  onion ;  in  which  case, 
vlien  chopped,  put  them  in  the  corner  of  a  napkin  or  cloth, 
wash  them  in  water,  squeeze  them  dry^  then  put  them  back  on 
the  board,  and  chop  finer ;  or  sometimes  only  rubbing  the  pan 
m  the  m^eat  with  the  onion  is  quite  suiFicient. 

450.  Larding. — The  word  larding  has  very  often  occurred  ii: 
our  receipts ;  it  may  be  thought  to  belong  to  a  style  of  cooke^« 
too  good  for  the  cottage.  On  the  contrary,-  it  is  an  economical 
process,  and  will  make  lean  meat  go  much  farther  than  with- 
out it. 

Get  vfhat  is  called  a  larding  needle,  that  is,  a  piece  of  steel 
from  six  to  nine  inches  long,  pointed  at  one  end,  and  having 
four  slits  at  the  other,  which  will  hold  a  small  strip  of  bacon 
when  put  between  them.  They  will  perhaps  cost  tenpence. 
Cut  the  pieces  of  bacon  two  or  three  inches  long  and  a  quarter 
to  half  an  inch  square,  put  each  one  after  the  other  in  the  pin, 
insert  it  in  the  meat,  and  leave  only  half  an  inch  out ;  eight 
pieces  to  each  pound. 

451.  Bunch  of  Sweet  Serhs. — In  many  of  the  receipts  is 
mentioned  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  which  consists,  for  some 
stews  and  soups,  of  a  small  bunch  of  parsley,  two  sprigs  of 
thyme,  and  one  bayleaf ;  if  no  parsley,  four  sprigs  of  wint-^r 
savory,  six  of  thyme,  and  one  bayleaf 

452.  Bread  Crti.mhs.'—Tske  a  piece  of  the  crumb  of  stale 
bread  not  too  hard,  bruise  it  with  your  hand,  then  pass  it 
through  a  coarse  sieve  or  cullender,  or  in  cloth;  use  where 
required. 

453.  Brotmiing  for  Smices. ^^Vu.t  half  a  pound  of  hmwn 
sugar  into  an  iron  saucepan,  and  melt  it  over  a  m^oderate  fi.r8 
for  about  twvsnty-nve  minutes,  stirring  it  continually,  until  quit€ 
black,  but  it  must  become  so  by  degrees,  or  too  sudden  a  hea* 
will  make  it  bitter,  then  add  two  quarts  of  water,  and  in  ten 
minutes  the  sugar  will  be  dissolved.     Bottk  for  use^ 


CULINARY   MISCELLANEOUS. 


163 


458a.  Goloured  Wate7\ — Put  in  a  basin  a  pint  of  water  and 
i  two  teaspooiifuls  of  the  above  sugar  browning ;  mix  well  j  use 
\  where  indicated,  either  for  stews,  gravies,  or  sauces. 

454.  Tease  Puddmg.—Vxit  si>  pint  of  split  peas  into  a  cloth., 
leave  room  for  their  swelling,  boil  in  a  gallon  of  soft  water ;  if 

'  good,. they  will  take  an  hour,  but  leave  them  till  tender;  pass 
^  them  through  a  sieve  or  cullender,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
:  salt,  half  of  pepper,  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  two  eggs,  which, 
i  if  scarce,  can  be  omitted ;  beat  up,  tie  again  in  cloth,  boil  lor 
c  one  hour,  and  serve  with  boiled  pork.  Or  when  plain  boiled, 
h  and  the  peas  are  done,  open  the  cloth,  season,  mix  well,  butter 
s  a  basin,  shape  in,  and  serve. 

455.  ffoiD  to  Boil  JSzc^.— Put  one  quart  of  water  in  a  pot, 
^  boil  it,  wash  half  a  pound  of  rice,  and  throw  it  into  the  boiling 

water ;  boil  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  each  grain  is  rather  soft, 
but  separate ;  drain  it  in  a  colander,  put  it  back  in  a  pot  which 
you  have  slightly  greased  with  butter,  let  it  swell  slowly  near 
the  lire,  or  in  the  oven,  imtil  wanted.  A  little  butter  may  bo 
added ;  each  grain  will  then  swell  up,  and  be  v/ell  separated. 

456.  Veal  Stuffing. — Chop  half  a  pound  of  suet,  put  it- in  a 
basin  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  pepper,  a  little  thyme,  or  lemon 
peel  chopped,  three  whole  eggs,  mix  well,  and  use  where 
directed.  A  pound  of  bread  crumbs  and  one  more  egg  may  be 
used :  it  will  make  it  cut  firmer. 

457.  Liver  Bluffing. — To  the  above  quantity  of  stuffing, 
chop  fine  four  ounces  of  the  liver  of  either  calf,  pig,  sheep,  or 
lamb,  poultry,  or  game ;  mix  well  and  use,  adding  a  little  more 
seasoning. 

These  stuffings  are  varied  by  the  mixture  of  a  little  cooked 
nam,  anchovies,  olives,  capers,  pickles,  or  even  red  herring.  In 
fact,  a  variety  of  ways,  according  to  fancy,  for  ary  dish  you 
please. 

458.  Biscuit  ^<2Z^5.— Put  in  a  basin  half  a  pound  of  suet, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  onions  chopped  fine,  one  of  parsley,  half 
©f  salt,  quarter  of  pepper,  ten  tabiespoonfals  of  biscuit  powder, 
two  passover  biscuits  soaked  in  milk  or  water  a  few  bours  before 


164  CULINAHY    MISCELLANEOUS, 

using ;  two  eggs  to  be  added.  These  are  excellent  m  any  tKicfe 
soups  or  ragouts,  aiid  stews  of  all  sorts  :  make  them  in  balls  the 
Bize  of  a  walnut,  stew  with  meat,  or  boil  gently  twenty  minutes, 
and  use  where  liked. 

459.  Cod  Liver  Stuffing. — Half  a  pound  of  raw  chopped 
liver,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  bread  crumb  or  biscuit  powder, 
salt,  pepper,  and  parsley ;  mix  with  two  whole  eggs.  Use  as 
stuffing  for  any  kind  of  fish. 

460.  Cod  Liver  Balls. — One  pound  of  liver  chopped  fine, 
put  into  a  basin  with  a  pound  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  onions,  two  of  parsley,  two  of  salt,  hall  one 
of  pepper,  a  pinch  of  ground  ginger,  three  eggs  ;  mix  all  well, 
make  into  balls,  roll  them  in  flour,  use  them  v/ith  any  kind  of 
stewed  fish ;  they  will  take  about  thirty  minutes  to  cook  slowly. 

461.  Toad'in-tJieSole  Batter. — Put  into  a  pan  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  of 
pepper ;  mix  well  with  a  pint  of  milk ;  mix  very  smooth,  and 
use  where  directed.     More  milk  may  be  used  if  liked. 

A  little  nutmeg  may  be  used  in  it.  This  is  as  good  as  pan- 
cake batter. 

462.  A  Common  Batter. — Put  in  a  basin  six  good  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  whi'cb  dilute  very  slowly  with  one  pint  of 
milk,  add  one  spoonful  of  salt,  quarter  that  of  pepper,  beat  an 
Q^^^  well  in  it,  if  used  for  a  toad-in-the-hole.  A  little  parsley, 
chopped  onions,  or  a  little  spice,  makes  an  agreeable  change ;  it 
will  also  make  nice  puddings,  if  baked  alone,  or  under  a  joint  in 
a  well-greased  tin. 

A  Commoner  Sort. — For  toad-in-the-hole  use  water,  if  you 
have  no  milk  or  eggs  handy ;  a  little  suet,  or  fat  chopped  fine,  is 
an  improvement. 

463.  How  to  Boil  and  Dress  Macaroni. — Put  in  an  iron 
pot  or  stew-pan  tv^o  quarts  of  water ;  let  it  boil ;  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  butter ;  then  add  one  pound  of 
macaroni,  boil  till  tender ;  let  it  be  rather  firm  to  the  touch ;  it 
is  then  ready  for  use,  either  for  so^ap,  pudding,  or  to  be  dressed 
with  cheese.     Drain  it  in  a  cullender ;  put  It  back  in  the  psn^ 


CULT^AUt    MISCELLANEOUS.  165 

aqA  four  ounces  of  clieese  or  more,  a  little  outtcr,  salt,  and 
pepper ;  toss  it  well  together  and  serve.  It  will  be  found  light 
and  nutritious,  and  well  worthy  the  notice  of  vegetarians. 

464  Hoto  to  Toast  Bread. — Procuro  a  nice  square  loaf  that 
ias  been  baked  one  or  two  days  previously,  then  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  off  the  bottom  crust  evenly,  and  then  as  many  slices  as 
you  require,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Contrive 
to  have  a  clear  fire :  place  a  slice  of  the  bread  upon  a  toasting- 
fork,  about  an  inch  from  one  of  the  sides,  hold  it  a  minute 
before  the  fire,  then  turn  it,  hold  it  another  minute,  by  which 
time  the  bread  will  be  thoroughly  hot,  then  begin  to  move 
it  gradually  to  and  fro  until  the  whole  surface  has  assumed  a 
yellowish-brown  colour,  then  turn  it  again,  toasting  the  other 
side  in  the  same  manner;  lay  it  then  upon  a  hot  plate,  have 
some  fresh  or  salt  butter,  (which  must  not  be  too  hard,  as  press- 
ing it  upon  the  toast  would  make  it  heavy,)  spread  a  piece, 
rather  less  than  an  ounce,  over,  and  cut  the  toast  into  four  or 
six  pieces ;  should  you  require  six  such  slices  for  a  numerous 
family,  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  would  suffice  for  the 
whole.     You  will  then  have  toast  made  to  perfection. 

464a.  Jam  of  all  Mnds. -^^Mmo^i  all  small  farmers  and  cot- 
tagers have  generally  some  kind  of  fruit  to  spare  at  the  end  of 
the  season,  any  of  which  can  be  made  into  jam.  Thus,  for 
strawberry  jam,  pick  one  pound  of  strawberries,  put  them  in  a 
pan  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  powdered  sugar ; 
put  the  whole  on  the  fire,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  boil  till 
rather  thick ;  or  try  a  little  on  a  plate,  if  it  sets.  When  cold, 
fill  your  preserve  jars,  cover  over  with  strong  white  paper,  and 
let  them  remain  in  a  rather  cold  place. 

Raspberries  and  green  gooseberries  will  require  a  little  more 
boiling,  and  more  sugar.  Cranberries,  mulberries,  cherries,  and 
cui'rants,  can  all  be  do.'^Q  the  same  way. 

464b.  Currant  Jelly. .^.  ^"Put  in  a  pan  half  a  sieve  of  fresh 
gathered  currants,  with  tht  talks ;  add  to  it  a  gill  of  water,  put 
on  the  fire,  and  boil  till  every  currant  has  opened ;  then  pas.^  the 
juice  through  a  sieve  or  cullender,  and  to  every  quart  put  one 
pound  of  white  sugar;  boil  fast  and  skim,  and  when  the  preserve 
I  begins  to  stick  to  the  spoon,  and  is  quite  clear,  fill  your  preserve 
pots,  and  cover  over  wheu  cold  j  but,  to  be  sure,  try  some  on  a 


166  HINTS   ON   TEA,   COFFEE,   ETC, 

plate  before  potting.    If  it  sets  well  it  is  done ;  a  l«,3w  rasp!)eme3 
added  is  an  improvement. 

PICKLES. 

465.  Med  Cahhage.^—l  perceive  in  most  cottages  the  gardes 
possesses  a  few  of  these  exceedingly  useful  productions ;  at  some 
seasons  tliey  grov/  larger  tlian  others,  when  they  should  ba 
pickled  thus : — Cut  them  into  thin  slices,  remove  the  hard  stalk, 
lay  them  on  a  slab,  cover  with  salt  for  twelve  hours,  turning 
them  now  and  then,  clean  off  all  the  salt,  and  place  them  in 
stone  jars  5  boil  some  vinegar,  and  to  every  quart  add  one  ounce 
of  black  pepper,  and  seven  button  onions,  or  two  large  ones 
sliced,  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  pour  over  cabbage ;  cover  the 
iar,  and  let  it  remain  three  weeks  before  using. 

Onions  may  be  omitted,  and  only  cold  vinegar  used,  but  I  do 
not  approve  of  it,  being  hard  and  indigestible.  A  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs  boiled  in  the  vinegar  is  an  improvement. 

I  send  you  no  other  receipts,  as  mixed  pickles  can  now  be 
bought  cheaper  than  they  can  be  made  at  home. 

A  FEW  ORIGIITAL  HINTS  ON  COFFEE,  TEA,  &c. 

460.  Simplified  Mode  of  Mahing  Coffee,  —  Put  one  ounce  of 
ground  coffee  in  a  pan,  which  place  over  the  fire;  keep  stirring 
it  until  quite  hot,  but  take  care  it  does  not  burn ;  then  pour  over 
t][uickly  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  close  it  immediately,  keep  it  not  far 
from  the  fire,  but  not  to  shnmer ;  then  fill  your  cup  without  shaking 
it ;  or  pass  it  through  a  cloth  into  a  coffee  pot,  or  it  may  be  made   ! 
some  time  previous,  and  warmed  again.     The  grounds  can  be  kept,  | 
and  boiled  for  making  the  coffee  of  the  next  day,  by  which  at  least  \ 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  is  saved.     In  country  places,  where  milk  is  \ 
good  and  cheap,  I  recommend  that  half  boiled  milk  should  be  used 
with  the  coffee.     The  idea  of  warming  coffee  is  my  own,  and  the 
economy  is  full  ten  per  cent. 

The  following  is  the  result  of  some  of  my  experiments  with  this 
system.  But  I  must  first  tell  you  that  my  exertions  in  the  fashion- 
able quarter  of  St.  Giles's  gave  great  satisfaction  to  my  septuagenarian 
pupil,  whom  I  taught  to  cook  the  ox  cheek,  and  she  and  several  of  her 
neighbours  clubbed  together  to  give  a  fashionable  ^' tea"  which  of 
course  my  vanity  made  me  immediately  accept.  Having  but  little 
confidence  in  what  they  would  provide,  I  bought  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  ground  coffee,  intending  giving  them  a  lesson  how  to  make « 
coffee.    On  my  arrival,  I  was  received  like  a  princess  in  a  fairy  landi 


HIN^JS  ON  2!EA,  COFFEE,  ETC,  167 

the  \\i*^le  parlour  was  not  only  clean,  but  ornamented,  at  tlie  cost  of 
fi  few  pence,  with  wall  flowers  from  tlie  neighbouring  garden  (the 
best  in  the  world,  Covent  Garden),  generously  dispensing  their  per- 
fume over  pyramids  of  muffins  and  crumpets.  Having  cordially 
shaken  hands  with  my  host,  I  set  cheerfully  to  work,  and  got; 
hold  of  an  old  pitcher,  but  clean;  in  it  I  put  the  coffee,  and 
placed  it  close  before  the  fire,  begging  the  old  lady  to  keep 
turning  it  round,  and  stirring  it  till  the  powder  was  hot.  I  then 
poured  three  quarts  of  boiling  water,  allowed  it  to  stand  for  ten 
minutes,  and  then  poured  it  out  into  the  cups,  v»rith  the  best  milk  that 
could  be  got,  and  sugar.  The  coffee  being  partaken  of,  I  put  into 
each  cup  a  good  teaspoonful  of  canister  cocoa,  with  half  a  teaspoonfuj 
or  sugar,  holding  the  kettle  in  one  hand  and  a  spoon  in  the  other.  1 
poured  on  the  water,  and  kept  stirring  all  the  time,  adding  a  little 
milk.  In  the  meantime  I  had  put  one  ounce  of  tea  into  a  large 
teapot,  which  I  had  placed  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  in  order  that 
the  leaves  should  get  hot,  so  that  when  the  water  was  poured  on 
them,  that  they  should  immediately  give  forth  their  aroma.  By 
the  time  the  cocoa  had  been  partaken  of,  the  tea  was  ready,  and 
it  was  declared  by  all  the  old  dames  present  that  they  never  had  had 
such  a  cup  ot  tea,  although  they  bought  it  at  the  same  shop, 
and  paid  the  same  price;  and  they  could  not  account  for  such 
•*  legerdemain,"  but  would  endeavour  to  imitate  it.  I  was  greatly 
thanked  on  my  departure,  and  received  the  compliment  of  an  old 
fihoe  being  thrown  after  me;  not  a  French  dancing  shoe,  but  a 
genuine  British  bit  of  solid  work,  the  sole  •  having  a  very  uneven 
appearance, '  v>ing  studded  with  seyeral  dozen  of  iron  naUs. 

Thus  terminated  the  entertainment  given  to  me  by  these  poor  but 
grateful  people  of  the  black  back  street  of  St.  Giles's. 

I  made  the  cocoa  thus,  not  having  sufficient  utensils ;  but  I  have 
found  it  an  economical  plan  to  make  the  ground  cocoa  hot,  adding  a 
little  water,  and  mixing  it  smooth  with  either  cold  milk  or  water,  it 
gives  it  a  richness  which  is  not  got  by  the  usual  system.  Place  it  on 
the  fire,  keep  stirring,  and  when  just  on  the  point  of  boihng,  serve. 
Chocolate  can  be  made  the  same  way,  only  stirring  it  more,  with  a 
Bpoon,  ii  you  have  no  chocolate  pot. 

In  the  way  of  coffee,  in  my  opinion,  nothing  can  be  more  pure 
than  what  I  bought  the  other  day  from  the  canister,  when  walking 
by  chance  in  the  Borough,  at  the  shop  of  Messrs.  White  and  Fair* 
child ;  and  I  must,  while  on  this  subject,  be  allowed  to  state  that,  iE 
my  opinion,  a  good  cup  of  coffee  cannot  be  made  without  the  intro^ 
duction  of  a  little  chicory,  although  I  am  aware  that  some  dealeiy 
imposed  on  the  public  by  selhng  an  article  composed  of  chicory  av 
a  coffee  price.  I  cannot  but  admire  Messrs.  White's  plan,  which  ia 
Jn  no  account  to  sell  any  ground  coffee  mixed  with  chicory,  but  to  self 
it;  to  then*  customers  the  one  separate  from  the  other.  They  then 


168 


BEVERAGm 


recommended  to  me  some  canister  coiFee,  patented  and  prepared  only 
by  them.  On  opening  the  canister  the  aroma  was  very  refreshing. 
On  asking  how  it  was  roasted  (rather  a  bold  question  on  my  part, 
I  admit)^  he  very  civilly  asked  me  to  follow  him  to  the  back  of  the 
premises,  where  some  very  extensive  rooms  are  fitted  up  for  the  purpose 
of  roasting ;  he  then  put  some  coffee-berries  into  a  cylinder  six  feet 
in  length  and  twenty  inches  in  circumference;  then  put  them  in  a 
furnace  whicb  roasted  the  berries  in  a  most  scientific  manner,  being 
turned  during  the  while  by  the  aid  of  steam  power.  When  suffi- 
^ently  roasted,  the  coffee  was,  while  hot,  put  in  a  steam  mill  and 
ground,  being  forced  from  the  mill  into  the  canisters  and  sealed 
lip  as  soon  as  possible,  and  put  into  stock.  I  beg  to  forward  you  one  of 
the  four  quarter  of  a  pound  packets  I  bought.  On  testing  it  I 
found  that  an  ounce  made  one  quart  of  excellent  cofiee. 


BEVEEAGES. 

As  far  as  the  food  of  man  goes,  I  believe,  dearest,  that  our  duty  ia 
almost  at  an  end  ,•  but  here  is  one  important  item  which  supports 
the  vitality  of  man  as  much  as  food  does,  I  mean  beverages ;  in  fact, 
one  is  inseparable  from  the  other :  to  drinlc  without  eating,  or  to  eat 
without  drinking,  would  soon  send  us  to  an  early  grave.  True,  if  too 
much  is  taken  of  one  or  the  other,  it  upsets  the  digestive  organs,  and 
materially  affects  the  functions  of  that  most  important  part  of  the 
human  frame,  the  stomach,  which,  acting  in  accordance  with  the 
wonderful  works  of  nature,  refuses  any  food  or  drink  that  does  not 
iiccord  with  its  functions.  True,  bad  food  and  beverages  of  all  kinds 
are  sometimes  forced  on  it ;  but  then,  if  it  does  not  disturb  its  functions 
immediately,  it  acts  on  it  gradually,  and  in  course  of  time  entirely 
destroys  its  coating  or  toilette.  Is  it  not,  then,  important,  that  great 
care  should  be  taken  in  what  we  eat  or  drink  ?  The  best  of  food  is  often 
spoilt  by  drinking  bad  beverages.  Amongst  the  higher  orders  of 
society,  the  pride  of  an  "  epictire''  is  to  select  the  best  of  wines,  which 
lie  considers  one  of  his  greatest  treasures,  scientifically  classing  them 
to  the  various  courses  of  his  dinner. 

You  probably  will  again  remark,  that  I  am  deviating  from  the 
purport  of  our  present  little  work,  by  alluding  to  the  higher  class  of 
Uving  in  its  pages,  while  in  reality  it  is  intended  for  the  million,  and 
not  for  the  wealthy  few.  My  excuse  is,  that  if  a  rich  gourmet  take. 
jBO  much  care  in  selecting  his  beverages,  why  should  not  a  poor  house* 
wife  be  as  particular  in  choosing  her  more  humble  drinks  ?  Is  it  not 
more  desirable  for  the  axtizan,  who  cannot  afford  to  drink  much  beer, 
to  have  with  his  meal  a  sound  clear  glass  of  pure  water,  fuU  of  health 
and  life,  than  to  have  a  muddy  one  ?  For  I  have  actually  s^a  peopk 
sLripk  the  i^aining^)?^  they  drip  froii^\  the  roof  of  a  house — the  simple  j 


BSYEBAGm  169 

Bea  of  letting  it  rest  for  a  minute  never  entering  their  hmxds ;  or  "bettef 
jfetill,  to  clarify  it  by  passing  it  through  a  clean  cloth,  or  giving  it  a  boil^ 
end  letting  it  get  cold  before  drinking,  for  any  doubtful  water  will 
improve  and  get  soft  by  boiling. 

For  those  in  middling  circnmstances,  who  can  afford  their  malt 
liquor  at  their  meals,  pale  ale,  or  light  table-beer,  or  ale,  is  preferable 
to  any  heavy  stout,  as  they  facilitate  digestion. 

Since  my  return  from  France,  there  is  nothing  I  miss  so  much  a3 
that  light  and  cooling  drink  called  by  our  allies  "  Viji  ordinaire^'* 
though  I  was  in  hopes  that  after  the  great  exertions  made  by  several 
members  of  parliament,  a  reduction  of  the  duty  on  these  simple  but 
generous  wines  would  take  place,  though  probably  they  would  not 
be  partaken  of  to  any  great  extent  by  the  masses,  v/ho  would  not 
understand  their  properties,  although  there  is  not  one  Englishman  out 
of  twenty  who  visits  France,  but  who  in  time  takes  a  liking  to  thesa 
really  harmless  wines. 

I  do  not  want  to  deprive  you  of  your  sherry  or  port  before  or  after 
dinner ;  however,  recollect  that  nothing  assists  digestion  and  refreshes 
the  palate  more  than  a  good  glass  of  light  wine  i  and  therefore  it 
would  be  a  great  boon  to  the  public  if  they  could  be  imported  free  of 
duty. 

To  our  friend  Dr.  King  I  am  much  indebted,  after  having  had  a 
conversation  on  the  above  subject,  for  his  sending  to  me  the  other 
day  a  case  of  pure  French  wine,  having,  as  he  stated  in  his  letter, 
been  present  while  it  was  drawn  from  the  rough  French  cask, 
I  was  more  astonished  when  he  informed  me  that  its  price  was  .only 
twenty-eight  shillings  per  dozen,  and  was  purchased  from  the  famous 
house  of  Campbell,  of  Regent  Street,  London.  It  appears  that  this 
gentleman  pays  an  annual  visit  to  the  different  vintages  and  villages  ' 
which  encompass  the  banks  of  the  Garonne,  and  jjur chases  largely 
from  the  peasantry,  remaining  there  all  the  brewing  season,  and  per- 
sonally superintending  its  make.  The  principal  wHnes  are  called 
«  La  Rose,"  "  St.  Julien,"  "  Vin  de  Grave,'^  "  Sauterne,"  "  Barsac,^ 
and  numerous  other  kinds,  all  of  which  are  highly  recommended 
iby  the  faculty.  Light  Amontillado,  Rhenish  wine,  and  Bucelias,  are 
aiso  commendable  at  meal-times. 

For  those  who  cannot  afford  to  buy  malt  liquors  or  wines,  I  lis.5  0 
been  led  to  try  the  following  receipts,  wh^iob  will  be  found  e^treiaely 
useful  for  people  in  small  circumstances? 


jyo  CHEAP   DPJNKS. 

A  SERIES  OF  NEW  AND  CHEAl'  BKINKB. 

467.  Put  a  gallon  of  water  on  to  boll,  cut  up  one  pound  of  apples, 
each  one  into  quarters,  put  them  in  tlu  water,  and  boil  them  until 
they  can  be  pulped,  pass  the  Mquor  through  a  cullender,  boil  it  up 
again  with  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  scum,  and  bottle  for  use, 
taking  care  not  to  cork  tlie  bottle,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place :  tho 
apples  may  be  eaten  with  sugar. 

Another  way  .—Bake  the  apples  first,  then  put  them  in  a  gallon  pan, 
add  the  sugar,  and  pour  boiling  water  over,  let  it  get  cold,  pass  the 
.liquor  as  above,  and  bottle. 

468.  Apple  Toast  and  Water.— A  piece  of  broad,  s^.owly  toasted 
till  it  gets  quite  black,  and  added  to  the  above,  makes  a  very  nice  and 
refreshing  drink  for  invalids. 

469.  Apple  Barley  Water.— k  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pearl  barley 
instead  of  toast  added  to  the  above,  and  boil  for  one  hour,  is  also  a 
very  nice  drink. 

470.  Apple  nice  ^«^6r.— Half  a  pound  of  rice,  boiled  in  the  above 
until  in  pulp,  passed  through  a  cullender,  and  drunk  when  cold. 

All  kinds  of  fruits  may  be  done  the  same  way.  ^ 
Figs  and  French  plums  are  excellent ;  also  raisins. 
A  little  ginger,  if  approved  of,  may  be  used. 

471.  For  Spring  Drmyt.— Rhubarb,  in  the  same  quantities,  and  T 
done  in  the  same  way  as  apples,  adding  more  sugar,  is  very  cooling,  ' 

Also  green  gooseberries. 

47lA  Lemonade.— QxA  in  very  thin  slices  three  lemons,  put  them  s 
in  a  basin,  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  either  white  or  brown;  bruise.^ 
altogether,  add  a  gallon  of  water,  and  stir  weU.     It  is  then  ready. 

472  For  Summer  JDnnJc,— One  pound  of  red  currants,  bruised  with 
some  raspberry,  half  a  pound  of  sugar  added  to  a  gallon  of  cold 
water,  well  stirred,  allowed  to  settle,  and  bottled. 

473.  Midherri/.—The  same,  adding  a  little  lemon-peel. 

A  little  cream  of  tartar  or  citric  acid  added  to  these  renders  them  -i 
snore  cooling  in  summsr  and  spring. 

! 
ON  MARKETING.  •' 

My  -deab  Feieot),— In  most  cookery  books,  which  are  supposed  to 
be  written  for  the  middle  classes  of  society,  we  find  at  the  beginning, 
and  in  laro-e  type,  directions  how  to  market  and  choose  the  best  joints 
of  meat,.Wtry,  fish,  but  rarely  vegetables,  how  jdl  the  best, 
qualities  of  each  should  be  known,  but  nothing  is  said  font  the 
^cond  and  third  quahties,  which  two-thirds  of  the  people  of  England 
consume  5  also  directions  forjudging  of  the  finest  haunch  of  mutton,  oi 


ON  MAUKETINC.  171 

i^rloin  of  beef,  but  never  of  tlio  neck  or  scrag  of  mutton,  or  the  skirfc 
of  beef,  or  sheep's  head,  liver,  &c. 

If  the  directions  of  those  v/orks  were  strictly  followed,  one-third  of 
the  people  would  be  starving,  and  a  population  of  dogs  (as  in  Turkey) 
would  have  to  be  kept  to  eat  up  the  supposed  ofFal.  At  the  present 
jnoment  our  soldiers,  as  well  as  those  of  our  allies,  the  French,  are 
[(feeding  excellently  off  that  which  is  thrown  away  by  the  Turks,  th© 
head,  feet,  &c.  &c.,  of  the  animal,  which  is  by  them  declared  unclean. 
Such  ought  never  to  be  the  case  in  a  Christian  country,  for  we  may  bo 
(quite  certain  that,  unless  the  animal  is  diseased,  all  those  parts  which 
can  be  digested  is  good  food  for  man;  but,  there  may  be  some  who, 
from  over-indulgence  in  luxuries,  have  so  brought  the  stomach  into 
that  state,  that  there  are  but  certain  parts  of  the  animal  of  which 
they  can  partake ;  these  persons  must,  of  course,  pay  higher  prices 
tfor  that  kind  of  meat,  and  leave  the  other  parts  cheaper  for  thoso 
having  healthy  and  good  digestions  to  feed  on.  It  is,  therefore,  our 
duty  here  to  teach  the  labom^er's  and  cottager's  wife  how  to  buy  ife 
cheap^  sweet,  wholesome,  and  nutritious. 

Mutton, — The  first  quality  of  mutton  ought  to  be  between  four 
cr  five  years  old ;  but  at  present  it  is  rarely  got  above  three,  and  often 
under  two  years.  The  flesh  ought  to  be  a  darkish,  clear,  red  colour^ 
the  fat  firm  and  white,  the  meat  short  and  tender  when  pinched, 
and  ought  not  to  be  too  fat. 

Second  quality. — The  fat  is  rather  spongy,  the  lean  close  and 
I  rough  grained,  and  a  deep  red,  and  the  fat  adheres  firmly  to  the  meat. 

Third  quality. — This  is,  perhaps,  a  sheep  which  has  had  some  disease 
and  recovered ;  the  liver  would  always  show  this,  but  as  butchers 
generally  remove  it,  and  do  not  let  it  be  seen,  you  cannot  judge  from  it. 
The  flesh  will  be  paler,  the  fat  a  faint  white,  and  the  flesh  loose  from 
the  bone ;  if  very  bad  and  diseased  the  fat  will  be  yellow,  and  the  lean 
flabby  and  moist.     To  ascertain  if  it  is  fresh  proceed  as  for  pork. 

Lanih  should  be  four  or  five  months  old,  and  ought  to  weigh  from 
t  thirty  to  forty  pounds ;  the  fat  ought  to  be  white  and  light  in  appear- 
ance, the  flesh  a  faintish  white,  smooth,  and  firm  to  the  touch. 

The  second  quality  is  not  so  well  covered  with  fat,  the  flesh  rather 
J  ted,  the  meat  softer,  and  every  joint  presents  a  coarser  appearance. 
The  third  quahty  is  flabby,  lean,  and  red,  the  fat  rather  yellow, 
Jnd  will  keep  sweet  but  a  short  time. 

To  ascertain  if  fresh,  place  the  finger  between  the  loin  and  kidney, 
t  end,  if  moist,  or  tainted,  will  be  easily  ascertained  by  the  smell. 

Beef. — Most  towns  and  counties  in  the  United  Kingdom  diflbr  in 

the  kind  of  cattle  brought  to  market.     It  is  not  our  duty  here  to 

I  Iriention  the  breed  which  we  think  the  best,  and  on  which  so  many 

i  iifl«;'.^ent  opinions  exist ;  but  the  quahty  of  meat  depends  upon  th© 


172  ON   MARKETING. 

feeding''.  Tlie  best  quality  of  beef  will  have  an  open  grain,  briglif? 
red  colour,  the  fat  white,  and  the  bark  smooth.  Some  of  the  best 
qualities  will  have  the  fat  yellow,  fi'om  being  fed  on  oil- cake;  and, 
unless  it  has  afterwards  been  fed  on  turnips,  will  be  wasteful  in 
cooking,  although  the  meat  may  be  tender  and  rich. 

The  second  quality  will  be  close-grained  and  rather  flabby,  paler  in 
colour,  and  the  fat  a  dead  white  and  the  bark  rough. 

The  third  quality,  the  grain  is  very  close,  no  streaks  of  fat  between 
the  grain,  and  of  deep  brickdust  red,  tough  under  the  finger,  the 
fat  hard  and  skinny.  To  ascertain  the  age,  look  at  the  bone  or  horn 
which  runs  through  the  ribs  of  beef;  if  a  fine  four -year  old  heifer, 
this  horn  or  bone  will  be  soft  or  tender,  and  becomes  harder  the  older 
the  ox.  But  the  best  plan  to  judge  of  the  flavour  of  the  meat  before 
you  do  it  by  eating  it,  is  to  look  at  the  tongue  of  the  bullock,  and  if 
it  is  plump  and  has  a  clean  bright  appearance,  with  the  fat  at  the  end 
of  a  pinliish  white,  then  the  meat  will  turn  out  good;  but  if  the  tongue 
should  look  dark,  the  fat  a  dead  white,  then  that  meat  will  eat  hard 
and  flavourless.,     The  same  holds  good  with  sheep. 

Veal, — There  is  more  difiiculty  in  the  choice  of  veal  tfiati  any  other 
meat,  although  the  general  opinion  is,  it  is  the  easiesfc.  I  often  hear 
how  white  it  is,  how  plump  it  looks:  these  are  often  produced 
artificially. 

The  preference  is  usually  given  to  the  cow  calf,  from  its  being 
whiter  and  having  the  udder;  but  if  a  bull  call  has  been  properly  fed, 
and  killed  at  about  ten  weeks  old,  nothing  can  be  finer  in  flavour  or 
closer  in  grain  when  cooked,  and  will  be  much  more  juicy  than  the 
cow  calf.  The  grain  should  be  close,  firm,  and  white,  the  fat  a 
pinliish  white,  not  a  dead  white,  and  the  kidneys  well  covered  with 
thick  white  fat;  that  is  the  first  class  veal.  The  second  quality  is 
darker  in  flesh,  may  be  slaughtered  in  the  country,  and  equally  as 
nourishing  as  the  first;  the  third  quality  will  have  less  fat  round  the 
kidney,  be  coarser  grained,  and  the  lean  red.  It  is  often  more 
nourishing  than  the  very  white  veal,  but  not  so  delicate  or  digestible. 
It  is  caused  by  the  calf  being  reared  in  the  open  air. 

If  the  suet  under  the  kidney  is  soft  and  clammy  the  meat  is  not 
fresh. 

The  neck  is  the  first  joint  that  becomes  tainted.  Calves'  liver 
should  be  firm,  and  free  from  gristle  or  spots;  the  heart  should  be 
surrounded  with  fat. 

When  veal  has  to  be  kept,  it  should  always  be  hung  up,  and  neveJ 
allowed  to  lay  on  anything,  or  it  soon  becomes  tainted. 

Po?'.?7,-— The  quality  of  this  entirely  depends  on  the  feeding.  A  friend 
5f  mine  made  various  experiments,  and  more  particulaiiy  on  tiie  same 
IJtte  of  pigs,  and  the  vcirious  sizes  and  difibreat  flavour  of  the  meat 


.    OH  MAKlIETINa     .  173 

was  extraordinar/.  There  is  one  tiling  very  certain,  tliat  wliafcever 
a  pig  is  fed  upon,  it  will  be  much  better  in  size  and  quality  if  kept 
clean  and  well  vv^ashcd  at  least  once  a  week.  Those  breeds  that 
produce  a  fine  close-grained  meat,  not  too  much  fat,  and  that  firm, 
solid,  and  pinkish  white,  are  tlie  best;  if  the  tongue  is  clean  and  full, 
the  animal  is  v/ell  ied  and  healthy. 

The  second  quality  of  pork  may  be  very  good,  bu^  toe  tlesh  will 
be  hard  and  red,  and  the  fat  a  yellow  white. 

The  third  quality,  the  meat  will  be  coarse-grained,  the  fat  soft, 
and  the  tongue  and  kidneys  discoloured.  Measly  pork  maybe  known 
by  the  little  kernels  in  the  fat:  it  is  not  allowed  to  be  sold  by  the 
butchers,  and  yet,  in  many  large  towns  in  England,  it  is  openly- 
exposed  for  sale. 

If  the  flesh  is  clammy  and  moist,  it  is  not  fresh.  The  best  plan  to 
tell  the  freshness  of  this,  or  any  meat,  is  to  take  wuth  you,  in  hot 
weather,  to  market  two  wooden  skewers,  and  insert  them  in  the  flesh 
near  the  bone,  and  remove  them,  and  the  nose  will  detect  it  imme- 
diately; this  is  much  better  than  touching  the  meat.  These  skewers 
should  be  scraped  after  being  used. 

SucJdng  Pigs. — The  skin  should  be  clear  and  fresh,  the  tongue 
clean,  the  flesh  of  a  pinkish  hue,  and  not  too  large  in  size. 

Poultrif. — The  means  of  telling  the  various  qualities  of  poultry  are 
well  known :  the  age  is  known  by  the  spur,  and  the  quality  by  the  skin. 
There  is,  perhaps,  no  poultry  in  the  world  that  comes  up  to  the  well- 
ied  Dorking  capon.  The  new  breed  of  Cochin  China  fowls,  of  which 
the  best  tor  eating  is  the  grey  kind,  if  fed  and  treated  in  the  same 
way  as  the  Dorking  capons,  might  produce  a  larger  fowl,  but  it  is 
questionable  if  so  tender. 

White  legged  fowls  are  generally  preferred,  but  there  are  black 
ones  equally  as  good.  In  country  places,  where  chickens  are  some- 
times required  to  be  killed  in  the  morning  for  that  day's  dinner,  it 
is  best  to  give  each,  shortly  before  killing  it,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar, 
which  will  cause  them  to  eat  tender.  This  can  be  done  with  all 
kinds  of  poultry. 

Geese  the  same. 

Ducks  should  have  the  feet  supple,  the  breast  foil  and  hard,  and 
a  clear  skin. 

Turkeys  should  have  fine,  full,  and  firm  legs,  skm  white,  breast 
full,  neck  long. 

Q-ame  may  be  detected  by  removing  the  feathers  otT  tlie  under 
part  of  the  leg,  and  if  the  skin  is  not  discoloured,  they  are  fresh. 
The  age  may  be  known  by  placing  the  thumb  ir-to  the  beak,  and 
holding  the  bird  up  with  tlie  jaw  part  of  the  beakj  if  it  breaks,  it 
is  young  \  if  not,  it  is  old,  ap^"^  requires  kecpin;^  Ioniser  before  cooking 
to  be  eatable. 


174  KITCHEN  REQUISITES. 


KITCHEN  REQUISITES. 

A^  a  workman  cannot  work  properly  without  the  requisite  tools, 
or  the  painter  produce  the  proper  shade  without  the  necessary 
colours,  in  like  manner  does  every  person  wishing  to  economize 
his  tood,  and  to  cook  it  properly,  require  the  proper  furniture  where- 
with to  do  it.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  these  pages,  which  have  cost 
me  both  time  and  trouble,  as  well  as  months  of  travelling,  will  be 
read  by  many  above  the  class  to  whom  it  is  more  especially  dedi- 
cated ;  and  that  hereafter  kitchen  utensils  may  be  considered  proper 
to  give  as  a  wedding  present  to  a  couple  commencing  housekeeping, 
Kothing,  I  am  certain,  could  be  given  that  would  be  a  better  pro- 
moter of  peace  and  happiness  in  their  home. 

In  a  superior  cottage,  which,  should  it  consist  of  four  rooms,  the 
kitchen  should  be  the  back  one,  and  not,  as  is  often  the  case,  the 
Ixont  one,  made  into  a  kitchen  and  sitting-room,  and  the  back  one  a 
washhouse  and  receptacle  for  dirt,  &c.  Whilst  I  am  on  this  subject, 
I  would  remark  that,  in  my  opinion,  all  cottages  or  houses  require,  in 
this  climate,  a  porch,  or  second  door ;  it  would  prevent  the  continued 
draught  and  blowing  in  of  the  rain  and  dust,  and  thus  avoid  a  great 
deal  of  illness  amongst  the  inmates,  and  add  greatly  to  the  cleanliness 
and  comfort  of  the  dwelling;  but  if  built  upon  H.B.H.  Prince 
Albert\s  plan,  they  do  not  require  it. 

The  back  room  should  be  fitted  up  with  a  proper  grate,  with  oven 
and  boiler,  and  a  copper  holding  at  least  six  gallons.  It  should 
have  the  requisite  shelves,  and  a  little  sink  to  hold  a  tub,  and  with 
a  tap  or  pump  for  water;  the  latter  article  I  consider  the  most 
essential  requisite  of  a  cottager's  dwelling:  it  should  possess  two 
gridirons,  one  single,  one  double,  a  large  and  small  frying-pan,  three 
black  saucepans,  holding  one  gallon,  halt  gallon,  one  quart,  or  a  three- 
legged  black  pot,  instead  of  the  gallon  one,  a  large  iron  spoon,  a  ladle, 
two  wooden  spoons,  a  wooden  bowl,  a  cullender,  a  chopper,  a  large 
knife,  a  baking  pan,  a  rolling  pin,  a  paste  brush,  a  stove  brush,  two 
tin  tart  dishes,  three  brown  basins,  six  bread  tins  or  pans. 

A  more  humble  abode,  possessing  two  rooms,  or  perhaps  only  one, 
which  latter  I  disapprove  of  very  much,  as  there  ought  to  be  two  in 
every dwellingjhow ever  small,  will  perhaps  not  be  able  to  afford  so  many 
articles  of  furniture ;  in  which  case  I  would  recommend,  as  being  the 
most  serviceable,  the  black  pot,  gridiron,  frying-pan,  earthen  pan,  or 
bowl,  or  spoon,  ladle,  cullender,  chopper,  three  basins,  two  tin  tart 
dishes,  baking  pan,  with  oven :  with  these  most  ot  the  receipts  in  these 
pages  may  be  cooked  to  perfection. 

And  with  the  pan,  gridiron,  and  frying-pan,  nearly  one  half  of  th$ 
receipts  may  ha  dj         For  baking  stewing-j>an^  see  Appendix;* 


soyer's  aerial  cooking  stove.  175 


ON  THE  SELECTION  OF  VEGETABLES 

As  regards  vegetation  in  general,  the  eye  can  «oon  detect  tlie  glowing 
f]-esluiess,  whicli  nature  deposits  upon  such  delicate  articles  of  food  as 
peas,  asparagus,  cucumbers,  beans,  spinach,  salads  of  all  kinds ;  any  of 
the  above  will  not  keep  fresh  after  being  cut,  longer  than  twenty-four 
hours,  during  the  summer,  and  twice  that  time  in  winter.  All 
vegetables  should  be  kept  in  as  cool  a  place  as  possible ;  still,  when 
the  bloom  disappears,  it  is  time  to  make  your  bargain,  as  they  then 
can  be  had  cheaper :  do  not,  however,  buy  any  vegetable  on  any  part 
of  which  decomposition  has  commenced  to  any  extent,  as  if  eaten  in 
this  state  it  will  be  found  injurious  to  health. 

Vegetables  such  as  cabbage,  cauliflower,  common  greens,  carrots, 
turnip-tops,  leeks,  celery,  artichokes,  both  globe  and  Jerusalem,  will 
keep  much  longer. 

Another  way  to  ascertain  if  vegetables  are  old  gathered,  is  to  break 
a  piece  off  any  one  with  the  hand ;  if  it  snaps  crisply  it  is  fresh ;  ii^ 
on  tlie  contrary,  it  has  a  flabby  appearance,  and  is  of  a  softish  con- 
sistency, it  is  stale,  and  should  be  bought  accordingly. 

SOYER'S  AERIAL  COOKING  STOVE. 

My  deaeest  Eeiekd, — Wonders  will  never  cease ;  and  ballooning, 
I  am  happy  to  say,  has  at  last  proved  itself  of  some  use  to  humanity, 
for,  no  doubt,  this  ingenious  apparatus,  which  I  have  now  in  contem- 
plation before  me,  must  have  sprung  out  of  those  atmospheric  castles 
so  unsafely  built  in  the  air ;  but  the  superiority  of  this  little  aerial 
pigmy  is  so  much  above  that  of  his  brother  monster  balloon,  that  you, 
can  have  as  many  ascents  in  the  course  of  a  day  as  you  choose,  even 
with  a  parachute,  without  the  slightest  danger  of  getting  upset;  it  is 
capable  also  of  successfully  braving  the  strongest  current  of  air ;  and, 
contrary  to  all  aeronautical  notions,  its  descent  is  even  more  agreeable 
than  its  ascent,  for  it  actually  refreshes  and  elevates  the  spirit  of  the 
spectators,  instead  of  causing  them  fear,  whilst  descendiiog  to  terra 
firma. 

In  this  unassuming  utensil,  Eloise,  the  wealthy  epicure  and  great 
amateurs  of  cookery  will  be  able  to  dress  a  most  reclierclie  dinner 
before  the  dining  or  drawing-room  fire,  without  soiling  his  apart- 
ment, apparatus,  or  even  his  fingers ;  the  cottager  will  be  able,  before 
fiis  humble  fire,  to  transmogrify  his  coarse  food  to  a  nice  stew,  roast, 
or  baked  pie  to  perfection. 

In  every  cottage  bread  will  be  lighter,  and  contain  more  nutri- 
ment, than  when  baked  in  a  large  oven,  in  which  considerable  evapo. 
{ition  always  takes  place. 

This  little  oven  has  not  the  sliglitest  resemblance  to  our  magic 


176  PLUH-PUBBING  FOS  THE  MILLION. 

etove,  wliich.  was  made  for  the  wealthy  only,  and  which  is  now  largely 
fraternizing'  with  our  troops  and  allies,  in  the  war  camps  in  the  east. 

This  little  apparatus  will  he  dedicated  to  all  classes,  hut  more  par- 
ticularly to  the  masses,  as  I  think,  from  the  model  which  I  now  have 
before  me,  it  can  he  made  for  a  few  shilhngs. 

I  have  already  tried  many  receipts  in  it,  all  of  which  have  more 
than  answered  my  expectations,  copies  of  them  will  he  printed  and 
sold  with  the  apparatus,  I  have  made  good  soup,  and  dressed  fish 
and  meat  of  all  kinds,  as  well  as  vegetahles,  having  also  roasted  and 
baked  meat,  and  made  sweet  and  savoury  pastry  in  it. 

In  fact,  I  may  say,  that  in  reality  it  is  almost  a  complete  kitchen 
in  a  very  small  compass,  a  real  petit  hijoux  de  families  not  quite  so 
large  as  our  extensive  friend  Signor  Lablache's  favomite  hat. 


A  PLUM  PUDDIXG  FOE   THE   MILLIOI^r,  OR  A  LUXUEY 
FOE  THE  AETISA]^. 

Here  is  a  cheap  pudding,  adapted  not  for  the  millionaire  huti 
for  the  million.  No  eggs  are  required,  and  it  costs  only  sixteen 
pence  to  make  a  good-sized  one,  enough  to  supply  from  ten  to  twelve 
people : — 

Heceipt. — Put  in  a  hasm  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  stoned 
'Raisins,  ditto  of  currants,  ditto  of  chopped  suet,  two  tablespoonsful  of 
treacle,  and  half  a  pint  of  water.  Mix  all  well,  put  in  a  cloth  or 
mould,  and  boil  from  four  and  a  half  to  five  hours. 

Sauce — Melted  butter,  sugar,  and  juice  of  lemon,  if  handy. 

A  tablespoonful  will  well  sweeten  half  a  pint.  A  little  spice,  or  a 
few  drops  of  any  essence,  or  lemon,  or  peel  chopped ;  a  httle  brandy, 
rum,  &c.  &c.,  will  be  an  improvement. 


CAMP  EECEIPTS  FOE  THE  AEMY  IK  THE  EAST. 

{From  the  Times  of  the  22nd  January,  1855.) 

No,  1.  Camp  Sowp.—Vvit  half-a-pound  of  salt  pork  in  a  saucepan, 
two  ounces  of  rice,  two  pints  and  a-half  of  cold  water,  and,  when 
boiling,  let  simmer  another  hour,  stirring  once  or  twice;  break  in  six 
ounces  of  biscuit,  let  soak  ten  minutes ;  it  is  then  ready,  adding  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  quarter  one  of  pepper,  if  handy. 

No,  2.  Beef  Soup.- — Proceed  as  above,  boil  an  hour  longer,  adding 
pint  more  water. 

If  any  flour  is  handy,  make  some  dumplings  thus;-*-Mix  half-a» 


CAMP  RECEIPTS   FOB  THE   ARMY.  177 

pound  of  flour  with  enougli  water  to  form  a  thick  do«gh,  divide  it 
into  pieces  each  the  size  of  a  small  apple,  roll  them  in  iiour,  flatten 
with  your  hands;  half  an  hour  will  cook  them;  serve  round  v/ith  the 
beef.  For  this  receipt  half  the  quantity  of  biscuit  may  he  used. 
Soup  separate. 

Note, — Those  who  can  obtain  any  of  the  following  vegetables  will 
find  them  a  great  improvement  to  the  above  soups: — Add  four  ounces 
of  either  onions,  carrots,  celery,  turnips,  leeks,  greens,  cabbage,  or 
potatoes,  previously  well  washed  or  peeled,  or  any  of  these  mixed  to 
make  up  four  ounces,  putting  th^m  in  the  pot  with  the  meat. 

I  have  used  the  green  tops  of  leeks  and  the  leaf  of  celery  as  well 
as  the  stem,  and  found  that  for  stewing  they  are  preferable  to  the 
white  part  for  flavour.  The  meat  being  generally  salted  with  rock 
salt,  it  ought  to  be  well  scraped  and  washed,  or  even  soaked  in  water 
a  few  hours  if  convenient;  but  if  the  last  cannot  be  done,  and  the  meat 
is  therefore  too  salt,  which  would  spoil  the  broth,  parboil  it  for  twenty 
minutes  in  water,  before  using  for  soup,  taking  care,  to  throw  this 
water  away. 

JVb.  3. — For  fresh  beef  proceed,  as  far  as  the  cooking  goes,  as  for 
salt  beef,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  the  v.^ater. 

No,  4.  Fea  Soiip. — Put  in  your  pot  half-a-pound  of  salt  pork, 
half  a  pint  of  peas,  three  pints  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
half  one  of  pepper,  four  ounces  of  vegetables,  cut  in  slices,  if  to  be 
had;  boil  gently  two  hours,  or  until  the  peas  are  tender,  as  some 
require  boiling  longer  than  others,  and  serve. 

No.  5.  Stewed  Fresh  Beef  and  Rice, — Put  an  ounce  of  fat  in  a 
pot,  cut  half-a-pound  of  meat  in  large  dice,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  one  of  sugar,  an  onion  sliced;  put  on  the  fire  to  stew  for  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally,  then  add  two  ounces  of  rice,  a  pint  o^ 
water;  stew  gently  till  done,  and  serve.  Any  savoury  herb  will 
improve  the  flavour.  Fresh  pork,  veal,  or  mutton,  may  be  done  the 
same  way,  and  half-a-pound  of  potatoes  used  instead  of  the  rice,  and, 
as  rations  are  served  out  for  three  days,  the  whole  of  the  provisions 
may  be  cooked  at  once,  as  it  will  keep  for  some  days  this  time  of  the 
year,  and  is  easily  warmed  up  again. 

Meceiptsfor  tJie  Fryingpan. — Those  who  are  fortunate  enough  to 
possess  a  fryingpan  will  find  the  following  receipts  very  usefal: — 
Cut  in  small  dice  half-a-pound  of  solid  meat,  keeping  the  bones  for 
eoup;  put  your  pan,  which  should  be  quite  clean,  on  the  fire;  when 
Lot  through,  add  an  ounce  of  fat,  melt  it  and  put  in  the  meat,  season 
with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  fry  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  now  and 
then;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  mix  all  well,  put  in  half-a  pint  of 
water,  let  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  pour  over  a  biscuit  previously 
soaked,  and  serve. 

The  addition  of  a  little  pepper  and  sugar,  if  handy,  is  an  improve- 
ment, as  is  J^lso  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  curry  powder,  or  spice;  sauce? 


178  CAMP  RECEIPTS   FOR  THE  ARMY. 

and  pickles  used  in  small  quantities  would  be  very  relishing',  and,  as 
these  are  articles  which  will  keep  for  any  length  of  time,  they  womld 
De  the  kind  of  thing  to  be  sent  as  presents  to  the  camp.  As  fresh 
meat  is  not  easily  obtained,  any  of  the  cold  salt  meat  may  be  dressed 
as  above,  omitting  the  salt,  and  only  requires  warming  a  short  time; 
or,  for  a  change,  boil  the  meat  plainly,  or  with  greens,  or  cabbage, 
or  dumplings,  as  for  beef;  then  the  next  day  cut  what  is  left  in  small 
dice — say  four  ounces — put  in  a  pan  an  ounce  of  fat;  when  very  hot, 
pour  in  the  following: — Mix  in  a  basin  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
moisten  with  water  to  form  the  consistency  of  thick  melted  butter, 
then  pour  it  in  the  pan,  letting  it  remam  far  one  or  two  minutes,  or 
until  set;  put  in  the  meat,  shake  the  pan  to  loosen  it,  turn  it  over,  let 
it  remain  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  serve. 

To  cook  bacon,  chops,  steaks,  slices  of  any  kind  of  meat,  salt  or 
fresh  sausages,  black  puddings,  &c. — Make  the  pan  very  hot,  having 
wiped  it  clean,  add  in  fat,  dripping,  butter,  or  oil,  about  an  ounce  of 
either;  put  in  the  meat,  turn  three  or  four  times,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  A  few  minutes  will  do  it.  If  the  meat  is  salt,  it 
must  be  well  soaked  previously. 


Good  JPiclding  for  Beef  and  Porlc. — Put  in  a  pan  or  tub  five 
pounds  of  salt,  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar 
for  a  joint  weighing  from  ten  to  twelve  pounds,  rub  it  well  with 
the  above  mixture  three  or  four  times,  letting  it  remain  in  pickle  for 
a  week;  it  is  then  ready  for  cooking:  half  an  ounce  of  peppercorns, 
or  a  few  aromatic  herbs,  will  vary  the  flavour. 

Kound  of  beef,  edgebone,  breast,  flanks,  or  ox  tongues,  are  the 
pieces  generally  salted ;  small  legs,  shoulders,  and  belly  of  pork,  pig's 
cheek  and  feet  the  same.  Time  your  pickling  according  to  size.  For 
plam  pickling,  omit  the  sugar  and  saltpetre. 


NEW  WAY  OF  MAKING  BEEF  TEA. 

Cub  a  pound  of  solid  beef  into  small  dice,  which  put  into  a  stew- 
jian  with  two  small  pots  of  butter,  a  clove,  a  small  onion  sliced,  an4 
two  saltspoonsfol  of  salt ;  stir  the  meat  round  over  the  fire  for  ten 
minutes,  until  it  produces  a  thickish  gravy,  then  add  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  let  it  simmer  at  the  corner  of  the  fire  for  half  an  lioui; 
skimming  off  every  particle  of  fat ;  when  done  pass  through  a  sieve. 
I  have  always  had  a  great  objection  to  passing  broth  through  a  cloth, 
as  it  frequently  spoils  its  flavour. 

The  same,  if  wanted  plain,  is  done  by  merely  omitting  the  vege- 
tables and  clove :  the  butter  cannot  be  objectionable,  as  it  is  taken 
out  in  skimming ;  pearl-barley,  vermicelli,  rice,  &c.,  may  be  served 
in  it  if  required.    A  little  leek,  celery,  or  parsley  may  be  added. 


APPENDIX, 


ON  CARVING  JOINTS. 

Deab  Eloise, — I  insert  the  following  lesson  on  that  culinary 
accomplishment,  carving,  knowing  what  an  important  item  it  is  in 
the  art  and  mystery  of  coolvcry,  and  yet,  how  few  there  are  who 
understand  that  apparently  simple  ai't. 

First,  you  must  truss  your  joint  with  taste,  and  take  away  any 
unsightly  bone  to  give  it  a  good  shape,  more  especially  the  neck, 
loin,  or  breast  of  either  veal,  mutton,  pork,  or  lamb. 

For  a  shilling  or  so  you  can  purchase  a  small  saw,  and  instead  of 
letting  the  butcher  divide  the  bone  of  a  loin  of  mutton  carelessly,  saw 
the  bone  thro'o^jh  at  about  a  distance  of  half  an  inch  from  each  other. 
Kibs  of  lamb,  and  breasts  of  mutton  and  veal  the  same.  These  being 
most  difficult  joints  to  carve,  should  be  sawn  carefully. 

Ecast  ribs  of  beef,  and  sirloin,  ought  to  be  cut  thinnish,  following, 
as  near  as  possible,  the  grain  of  the  meat,  which  you  can  soon  learn 
to  do  by  paying  a  little  attention.  A  little  fat  and  gravy  should  be 
served  on  each  plate. 

Salt  beef  ought  to  be  cut  thinner  still.  If  out  of  a  round  or  a 
silver  side,  cut  it  even.  Cold  meat  requires  to  be  cut  thinner  than 
hot. 

Roast  fillet  of  veal,  cut  as  round  of  beef,  helping  thin  slices  of 
bacon  or  salt  boiled  pork ;  a  little  stuffing  and  gravy  to  be  added. 

Mutton  reqmres  to  be  cut  rather  thicker  than  beef  or  veal ;  pork 
the  same. 

My  way  of  carving  a  leg  of  mutton  is  by  putting  one  prong  of 
the  fork  in  the  knuckle-bone,  holding  it  in  the  left  hand,  then  I  cut 
five  or  six  slices  in  a  slanting  manner,  towards  me,  dividing  the  first 
two  or  three  cuts  equally  amongst  all  the  plates.  By  this  method 
you  keep  the  meat  full  of  gravy,  each  slice  retaining  its  portion 
and  it  is  far  better,  in  an  economical  point  of  view,  than  cutting  the 
joint  across  the  centre,  as  by  this  means  all  the  gravy  runs  out,  espe- 
cially if  the  meat  is  over  done. 

Haunch  of  mutton  I  carve  the  same,  giving  a  slice  of  the  loin  an^ 
one  of  the  leg  to  each  guest. 

Saddle  of  mutton  should  never  be  cut  across  the  loin  if  you  study 
economy.  Pass  the  point  of  the  knife  between  the  back -bone  and 
the  meat,  then  begin  at  the  top  and  cut  as  thin  chops  in  a  slanting 
position,  each  slice  about  half  an  inch  thick,  which  will  give  you  a  iaiJ 


180 


AI»PEND11. 


proportion  of  fafc  and  lean.  By  this  method,  you  can  cut  enougli 
for  ten  to  twelve  persons,  whereas  by  the  other  way  you  only  get 
enough  for  four  or  five. 

For  leg  of  lamb  or  pork  proceed  as  tor  mutton,  and  for  loin, 
ribs,  breast,  or  neck  of  either,  nroceed  as  above,  having  previously 
divided  it  with  a  saw,  which  greatly  facilitates  the  carving  of  these 
joints. 


SOYER'S  BAKING  STEWING  PAN. 

Deas  Eloise, — Since  I  sent  you  the  receipt  for  my  new  pan,  I 
perceive  that  very  little  fat  is  required  with  any  meat  done  in  it. 

In  the  event  of  stewing  fat  meat  or  Iripe  (which  is  sometimes  un- 
avoidable), I  first,  before  sending  it  to  the  table,  remove  the  fat 
which  rises  to  the  top  v/ith  a  spoon. 

I  must  say  that  the  more  I  use  the  pan  the  better  I  like  it.  I 
have  had  it  registered  and  they  are  now  being  manufactured  in  large 
quantities  by  JMessrs.  Deane  and  Dray,  King  William-street,  City, 
and  will  doubtless  be  before  the  public  in  p,  few  weeks^  Foi 
description,  see  page  69. 


4Ff.EHBlX. 


SEMI-EOASTING  IN  THE  BAKING  STEWHsTG  PAN. 

This  cut  represents  a  tin  pan  in  wbich  a  pudding  is  placed,  and  on 
the  trivet  a  joint  of  beef,  previously  boned;  it  is  suspended  from  the 
inside.  Potatoes  may  be  baked  round  the  meat,  v/ithout  interfering 
with  the  pudding.  The  pans  will  consist  of  three  diiferent  sizes ; 
namely,  one  to  hold  two  quarts,  one  four,  and  the  other  six.  Lean 
meat  is  preterable  to  fat  for  semi-roasting  in  the  baking  stewing  pan. 


« 


iiim 


llfc 


lilUu 


n 


ALAEUM,  OE  COOKING  CLOCK. 

By  the  aid  of  this  little  alarum  the  housewife  will  be  able  to  tiim 
her  joints,  pies,  and  puddings,  to  an  instant. 

By  winding  it  up  and  setting  the  hand  bad:,  starting  fi'Ciii  tv,relve> 
to  the  time  required  for  the  article  to  cook.  Say  it  is  one,  and  your 
joint  is  to  be  done  at  tln'ee, — move  the  hand  to  ten,  v/ind  up  the 
spring,  and  place  tb^  box  on  the  table,  giving  at  the  time  an  impul- 
sion to  the  penduluiJiL 

N.B.  The  iire  must  "be  of  a  proper  heat,  or  your  joint  will  be  eithei 
under  or  over-done.  They  3re  to  be  pi^rchased  at  No.  46,  Kkn^ 
William  Street,  City. 


182 


Appendix. 


SOYER'S  IMPROVED  BAKING  DISH. 

The  above  is  a  sketch  of  my  imp:ioved  Baldng-disb,  which  I  havs 
before  described  at  page  94. 

If  the  oven  is  rather  slack,  the  pudding  baked  in  it  will  require 
turning;  therefore,  when  well  set,  remove  the  grating  containing 
the  meat  and  potatoes,  cut  your  pudding  in  four  pieces,  turn  each 
piftce,  replace  the  grating,  and  bake  till  done. 


VEGETABLE  DRAIKER.  i 

The  above  is  a  sketch  of  a  saucepan,  fitted  with  a  perforated  pan  rj 

and  a  vegetable  drainer. 

This  group,  though  extremely  simple,  is  perhaps  one  of  the  most . 

economical  cooking  utensils  ever  put  before  the  public,  and  ought 

to  have  a  place  in  every  kitchen. 

It  possesses  two  great  qualities,  inasmuch  as  it  saves  time,  and  ) 

rapersedes  the  tedious  method  of  fishing  the  greens  or  cabbage  out  of 

the  saucepan  j  and  prevents  the  now  every-day  evil  of  emptying  with 


APPENDIX. 


183 


the  water  in  which  the  vegetables  have  been  boiled,  a  quantity  of  the 
material,  which  by  accident  might  be  left  in  the  pot — thereby 
clogging  Tip  the  drain,  to  the  annoyance  of  the  household.  To  be  had 
<jf  Messrs.  Deane  &  Bray,  King  William  Street,  City. 

DIRECTIONS  FOE  USE. 

Fit  the  perforated  pan  inside  the  saucepan,  half  fill  it  with  water, 
add  two  teaspooniuls  of  salt,  and  when  the  water  boils  put  in  youi* 
greens,  or  whatever  else  you  may  cook.  Let  it  boil  fast  until  tender, 
tiien  lift  out  the  perforator  by  the  handles,  and  With  the  crusher 
ipress  lightly  the  water  out,  and  serve. 

To  boil  pork,  bacon,  or  salt  beef,  with  greens : — When  any  of  these 
are  half  done,  put  in  your  greens,  using  only  half  the  quantity  of 
salt ;  when  ready,  dish  up  the  meat,  press  the  broth  out^  which  save 
for  soup  for  the  ijext  da/s  use.    (See  Soups.) 


This  represents  a  model  of  a 
Chimney  Screw-jack  for  suspend- 
ing joints  to.  Its  cost  is  very 
trifling,  and  may  be  purchased 
at  any  ironmonger's.  It  will 
fit  on  any  mantel-shelf;  and  it 
enables  the  joint  to  be  shifted 
nearer  or  further  from  the  fire, 
as  occasion  requires. 

I  have  ordered  a  small  tin- 
screen  which  folds  in  three,  and 
will  occupy  only  a  small  space 
before  the  fire,  which  will  greatly 
increase  the  heat  when  in  use.  I 
cannot  give  a  cut  of  it  in  the 
present  edition,  as  I  have  not  yj?t 
received  the  drawing. 


SOYER'S  KITCHEN  FOR  THE  ARMY. 


During  the  period  of  the  famine  in  Ireland,  I  took  with  me  a  portable  i 

kitchen,  and  erected  it  opposite  the  Royal  Barracks  in  Dublin,  and  with  ! 
which  I  cooked  and  delivered  rations  for  26,600  persons  daily. 

Having  last  year  taken  a  peep  at  the  camp  at  Chobham,  as  well  as  the  i 
camp  at  Satory  in  France,  and  seeing,  by  the  ordinary  manner  in  which  i 
the  provisions  for  the  dili'erent  messes  were  cooked,  even  in  France,  that  »■ 
Inrge  amount  of  nutriment  of  tlie  food  was  lost,  it  occurred  to  me  that,  if  a  - 
moveable  kitchen  could  be  made  to  travel  with  the  army,  it  would  be  exceed- 
ingly useful,  whilst  on  the  march,  or  when  encamped. 

The  following  is  an  explanation  of  the  above  kitchen: 

The  carriage  is  made  of  sheet-iron,  weighing,  with  water,  fuel,  &c.,  a. 
little  more  than  one  ton.  The  lower  part  consists  of  a  circular  steam  boiler, 
and  the  upper  part  of  an  oven.  Over  the  oven  are  placed  the  various  pans 
containing  the  rations  required  to  be  cooked  by  steam,  and  on  each  side  is 
a  hanging  shelf,  which  will  also  hold  steam  saucepans  in  front,  and  round 
the  driver's  seat  is  a  reservoir  for  water,  and  a  place  to  hold  the  condiments,  &c. 

The  plan  of  working  it  would  be  to  draw  it  near  to  a  stream  or  reservoir  ! 
of  water — if  brackish  or  muddy  it  does  not  matter* — there  till  the  boiler 
and  reservoir^  and  remove  it  to  any  convenient  spot.     The  fuel  may  con- 
sist of  wood,  coal,  turf,  &c.  &c.     Within  one  hour  after  the  fire  is  liglited  ' 
the  steam  would  be  up,  and  the  oven  hot,  and  with  one  six  feet  long  and  ^ 
t.hree  feet  wide,  rations  for  1000  men  could  be  cooked  by  baking  and 
^teaming  in  about  two  hours,  and  the  apparatus  moved  on  again,  or  it  j 
would  cook  whilst  on  the  march,  if  on  an  even  road. 

Its  advantages  are,  saving  of  time,  labour,  men,  and  food,  and  the  cer- 
tainty that  the  men  could  get  their  food  properly  cooked. 

The  cost  of  each  apparatus  would  not  exceed  lOOZ. 


Any  tainted  water  is  made  good  by  first  converting  it  into  steanf. 


185 

OMISSION. 


I  pEECEivE,  my  dear  Eloise,  tliat  the  varloas  receipts  for 
dressing  sprats  in  a  plain  way,  are  minus  in  the  previous  editions, 
as  far  as  the  60th  thousand  of  our  very  successful  Uncle  Tom's 
Kitchen,  as  our  publisher,  Mr.  Eoutledge,  calls  it, — nearly  sixty 
thousand  books  having  been  sold  in  less  than  six  weeks.  Let 
us,  therefore,  be  grateful  to  the  public,  and  give  them  the  omitted 
receipts,  which  I  assure  you  I  had  in  my  original  manuscript,  but 
which  I  have  in  vain  endeavoured  to  fish  out  of  the  book.  Being 
food,  ar>d  g:ood  food  for  the  million,  when  properly  dressed,  it  is 
r.ost  important  that  these  simple  receipts  should  be  immediately 
I  introduced  in  this,  the  70th  thousand,  and  more  especially  as  those 
silvery  stars  of  the  ocean  are  daily  expected  to  pay  their  annual 
visit  to  "  terra  firma,"  and  that  on  the  next  Lord  Mayor's  Day 
everybody  probably  will  be  in  a  good  "  moon"  to  partake  of 
them.  And  most  heartily  do  I  join  the  opinion  of  the  numerous 
friends  of  the  late  celebrated  alderman,  when  I  say  that  the 
Citizen  Kingship  of  London  has  never,  and  never  will  be, 
eclipsed  by  a  better  subject  of  Her  Most  Gracious  Majesty, 
Queen  Victoria. 

1st  Lesson.  Sprats,  Semi-fried. — Wipe  gently  with  a  cloth 
a  dozen  of  sprats  or  more,  according  to  the  size  of  your  frying- 
pan,  which  requires  to  be  very  clean;  place  it  for  a  mm  ate  or 
i  two  on  the  fire,  to  get  hot  through ;  sprinkle  in  it  about  naif  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  to  every  dozen  of  middle-size  fish,  w^hich  place 
immediately  in  the  pan:  leave  them  for  two  minutes,  turn  care- 
fully with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  leave  them  three  or  four  minutes 
longer,  and  serve  very  hot.  To  serve  them  on  a  napkin  is  pre- 
ferable. '  • 

Addition. — About  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  or  a 
little  Cayenne;  also  the  juice  of  lemon,  or  a  drop  of  vinegar,  ij' 
a  pleasing  variation.  ^         ^^ 

2nd. — Dip  each  sprat  in  flour,  put  in  the  pan  a  little  fat,  on 
oil ;  when  very  hot,  put  in  the  fish,  which  semi-fry  ?«3  abov©- 
Tliey  ma}^  also  be  lightly  covered  with  Qg^  and  bread-crumbs — 
lor  use  sifted  biscuit,  which  is  a  very  agreeable  variety  of  di'essing 
them. 

Another  way. — Put  them  in  a  tin,  with  a  little  lard,  oil,  or 
I  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  into  the  oven.     They  will  take  about 


186  OMISSIOK. 

double  the  time  doing,  and  will  not  require  turning,  wliicK  is 
important.  Serve  in  the  tin.  You  may  add  chopped  parsley 
and  a  little  lemon,  &c. 

To  hroil, — Take  a  skewer  long  enough  to  hold  a  dozen  sprats ; 
dip  them  lightly  in  flour ;  put  the  gridiron  on  as  clear  a  fire  as 
possible,  and  when  hot  lay  them  on  for  two  minutes ;  turn  them 
carefully,  leave  them  till  done,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve. 

Sprat  Toast  just  strikes  mc—Take  a  piece  of  bread  nice  and 
crisp,  butter  it  over ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  mustard,  and 
dish  the  sprats  on  it. 

Sandwich. — Put  another  similar  slice  over,  cut  in  four,  and 
serve.  You  may  add  to  any  of  the  above  receipts  a  little 
Harvey's  sauce.  Chili  vinegar,  Soyer's  relish,  or  any  mild  sauce. 
A  little  Anchovy  paste  on  the  toast  would  be  an  improvement. 


Deaeest  Eloise,— 

V/e  have  remarked  before,  and  must  now 
repeat  it,  with  Hippocrates,  that  that  which  pleases  the  palate 
nourishes  the  most. 

j^othing  can  be  more  applicable  than  these  words  of  far 
famed  antiquity ;  and  rightly  do  they  apply  to  a  new  discovery 
I  made  v/hilst  in  London,  about  a  month  back,  which  I  regard 
as  a  blessing  to  the  sufferer  who  is  obliged  to  seek  relief  from 
cod-liver  oil.  I  am  pleased  to  tell  yoa  that,  in  lieu  of  the 
generally  rancid  quality  of  this  preparation,  I  have  found  it 
palatable  and  rather  agreeable,  in  comparison  with  the  other, 
and  far  superior  to  what  I  tasted  at  the  Hull  Infirmary,  during  a 
visit  there  (see  pages  41,  42,  and  43),  which  caused  me  to  think 
of  those  dishes  in  which  fresh  cod-liver  is  used :  but,  as  these 
cannot  supply  the  "  mass,"  I  must  make  you  acquainted  with 
this  *'boon  for  the  million:"  and  I  certainly  prefer  Dr.  Be  Jongh's 
Light  Erown  Cod-liver  Oil,  which  approaches  in  taste  as  near 
to  tliat  delicacy,  the  sturgeon  "  Caviare,"  as  anything  I  ever 
tasted,  leaving  its  medicinal  properties  in  the  hands  of  such 
eminent  authorities  as  Professor  Liebig,  Y/ohler,  Berzelius, 
Pouquier,  Dr.  Jonathan  Pereira,  &c.,  and  the  Analytical  Com- 
missioner of  the  "  Lancet,"  who  so  highl}^  speak  in  its  favour. 

I  will  in  a  few  days  forward,  as  you  requested,  the  receipt  of 
the  celebrated  L^^ncashire  Pepper  Pot. 

1^ 


187 

SOYER'S 
NEW  CHEISTMAS  EECEIPTS. 


SOYEKS  NEW  CHRISTMAS  PUDDING. 

YoTJ  are  right,  dearest  Horfcense,  tliis  is  by  far  the  most  delicate 
mild  best  plum -pudding  I  ever  tasted,  without  being,  at  the  same 
ttime,  too  rich;  the  combination  of  ingredients  is  perfect,  and  although 
t there  is  hardly  any  difference  in  the  materials  used  in  this  to  an 
'1  ordinary  plum -pudding,  it  tasted  to  me  like  one  made  of  entirely  new 
ingredients,  and  I  consider  it  a  great  acquisition  to  this,  the  hundredth 
thousand  of  our  Shilling  Cookery. 

This  receipt,  if  closely  followed,  would,  at  this  festive  season  of 
the  year,  save  tons  of  fruit  and  other  expensive  ingredients,  which  are 
j  partly  wasted  for  want  of  knowing  how  to  turn  them  to  the  best 
a advantage. 

Carefully  prepare  the  following  previous  to  mixing  tlie  pudding:— 

Christmas  Fudding. — Four  ounces  of  stoned  raisins,  ibur  ounces 

'  of  sultanas,  half-a-pound  of  well-cleaned  currants,  half-a-pound    of 

ibeef  suet  chopped  fine,  two  ounces  ot  powdered  white  sugar,  two  . 

!  ounces  of  flour,  half-a-pound  of  bread  crumbs,  twelve  bitter  almonds 

I  blanched  chopped  small,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  two  ounces  of  candied 

I  citron,  the  peel  of  half  a  small  lemon  chopped  fine.  When  all  is  prepared 

separately,  put  in  a  basin,  break  over  four  Q^^^,  and  add  half  a  gill 

of  brandy.     Mix  these  all  well  the  evening  before  wanted,  cover  over 

till  the  morning,  then  add  half  a  gill  of  milk,  and  well  stir  your  pud- 

I  ding;  slightly  butter  a  cloth,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over,  put  it  in  a 

1  basin,  pour  in  the  mixture,  tie  your  cloth  in  the  usual  way,  not  too 

i  tight ;  put  in  half  a  gallon  of  boiling  water,  adding  a  little  more 

;  now  and  then  to  keep  jt  to  half  a  gallon,  let  simmer  two  ncurs  and 

:  thirty  minutes,  turn  out  of  cloth,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

After  which,  when  at  the  dining-room  door,  pour  round  a  gill  of 
(  either  brandy  or  rum,  which  set  on  fire  with  a  piece  of  paper,-  place 
1  the  dish  on  the  table,  let  burn  half  a  minute,  and  pour  the  following 
i  sauce  over  from  the  saucer.  Cut  seven  or  eight  slices  from  the  pud- 
I  ding  crossways,  or  according  to  number,  when  help,  and  serve  very 
1  hot. 

The  sauce  I  prefer  with  it  is  as  foliows :  Make  half-a-piut  of  melted 


188  SOYER'S   NEW   CHRISTMAS   RECEIPTS. 

butter,  as  No.  410,  or  ordinary  plain  melted  butter,  rather  thick, 
add  to  it  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  sma.ll  glassful  of  noyeau,  the 
juice  of  hall  a  lem.ou,  and  a  pat  of  butter;  stir  quick,  poiir  over  your 
pudding  when  very  hot,  or  serve  separate  in  a  sauce-boat. 

You  beg  of  me  a  simplified  receipt  of  my  Christmas  pudding. 
You  cannot  expect  that  it  will  be  as  good  as  the  above ;  and  if  I 
consent  to  give  it  you,  it  is  upon  the  sensible  remark  that  you  make 
to  m.e  on  this  subject,  that  thoi^gh  it  cannot  be  expected  to  be  as 
good  as  the  above,  yet  in  its  way  it  will  far  excel  thousands  of  pud- 
ciiu-gs  with  richer  ingredients,  wdiich  are  made  at  this  festive  season 
of  tlie  year  for  w^ant  of  judgment  in  the  proportion. 

Tlie  above  Fudding  simplified. — Stone  half  a  pound  of  common 
raisins,  wash  and  clean  half  a  pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  beef 
suet  chopped  fine,  two  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  three  ounces  of  flour, 
three  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  half  a  gill  of  rum,  and  a 
gill  of  m,ilk.  Mix  all  well  the  night  previous,  put  in  a  cloth  as 
above,  boil  three  hours,  and  serve.  Pour  over  melted  butter  in 
which  you  have  put  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  if  handy. 

IIoiD  to  vary  and  im'prove  the  Fudding  at  a  trifling  expense,'-^ 
The  addition  of  a  little  mixed  spice  or  pounded  cinnamon,  lemon,  or 
orange  peel,  chopped  fnie,  or  a  drop  or  two  of  any  essence,  a  couple 
of  sharp  apples  cut  in  dice,  and  a  few  dates  or  French  prunes.  Cut 
the  same,  using  only  half  the  raisins  or  currants. 

Observe,  Eloise,  that  I  send  you  this  receipt  as  a  dainty  dish,  or 
bonne  louche^  therefore,  if  you  find  it  a  little  complicated  in  its 
details,  it  will  at  the  same  time  well  repay  the  extra  time  and 
trouble,  and  hardly  increase  the  expense,  as  I  perceive  it  only  costs 
two  shillings  and  fourpence,  and  that  by  buying  everything  in 
small  quantities.  But  for  those  who  require  plainer  puddings,  I 
refer  them  to  receipts  No.  234  and  the  following  one,  wdii(;h  is  still 
plainer,  simpler  in  its  details. 

As,  no  doubt,  our  readers  will  fix  all  their  attention  on  the  new 
receipts  for  Christmas,  it  is  important  to  know  that  some  excellent 
ones  are  to  be  found  in  the  body  of  the  book,  as  being  well  adapted 
for  this  festive  season.  Some  are  very  economical,  to  suit  persons  in 
such  circumstances.  For  instance,  see  receipts  Nos.  335,  336,  338, 
339,  340,  342,  343,  346,  348,  349,  and  350. 

Deab  Eloise, — You  are  aware  that  any  great  event  in  every 
nation  has  almost  always  left  behind  some  national  culinary  reminis- 
cence of  the  circumstance,  and  many  a  sanguinary  battle  is  kept  aliAy 
in  our  memories,  both  in  youth  and  age,  from  our  eating  either  pud 
dings  or  cakes  to  commemorate  it.  For  instance,  the  French  ha\8 
their  poulet  a  la  Marengo,  from  that  great  battle.  We  have  out 
Michaelmas  goose  from  Queen  Elizabeth's  victory  over  the  Spanish 


SOTER'S   new  CHRISTMAS   RECEIPTS.  189 

Armada.     Mince  pies,  pancakes,  &c.,  all  have  their  data.     It  would 

not  be  attempting  too  much  on  our  part  to  add  anotlier  of  these 
everlasting  delicacies  to  the  above  manj^,  under  the  glorious  title  of 
tlie  "  Alma  Allied  Budding/'  And  may  the  palate  of  the  future 
generation  be  as  gratified  with  the  excellence  of  this  concoction  as  the 
ears  of  the  present  one  has  been  vvith  the  announcement  of  the  grand 
victory  which  tock  birth,  under  the  united  flags  of  two  of  these 
^great  nations ; — which  will,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  form  the  rainoow  of 
union  and  liberty,  and  illuminate  for  ever  as  a  might^^  meteor  the 
darkness  of  despotism. 

The  Alma  Budding. — Make  half  a  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  which 
put  in  a  basin ;  add  two  ounces  of  sago,  six  ounces  of  fine  chopped 
suet,  five  ounces  of  sugar,  four  ounces  of  sultana  raisins,  six  eggs,  half 
a  gill  of  rum,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  apricot  jam.  Well  butter  the 
interior  of  a  pudding  basin ;  add  the  mixture.  Put  some  water  in  a 
sauce -pan,  set  it  on  the  fire  ;  when  beginning  to  boil,  put  in  your  basin, 
which  ought  to  be  a  httle  more  than  half  immersed  in  the  water. 
Boil  gently  on  a  slow  fire  for  two  hours ;  take  it  out,  pass  the  knife 
between  the  basin  and  puddingj  and  serve. 

The  Sauce. — Put  in  a  small  pan  two  tablespoon sful  of  apricot  jam 
and  two  glasses  of  sherry ;  warm  gently,  when  boiling  pour  over. 

JIoio  to  Ornament  the  aiove. — The  interior  of  the  basin  or  mould 
may  be  nicely  ornamented  with  ciu-rants,  green  angelica,  sultana  and 
Malaga  raisins,  candied  peel,  almonds,  ginger,  &c.,  &c.,  which  will 
firmly  adhere  to  the  pudding.  The  first  I  made  1  ornamented  with 
a  sugar  drum  fixed  on  the  top,  the  three  allied  flags  passed  through, 
forming  a  trophy,  surrounding  it  with  brandy  balls;  a  gill  of  French 
brandy  round  it,  set  on  fire,  and  serve.  All  the  above  ornaments 
may  be  obtained  at  a  confectioner's. 

I^eio  Christmas  Dish. — A  most  delicious  and  cheap  dish,  easily 
made, — Buy  sixpenny  worth  of  light  sponge-cake  and  raspberry  rolls, 
which  cut  across  in  slices  about  hali-an-inch  thick;  lay  them  on  a 
small  dish  in  a  circle,  one  lying  hair  over  the  other ;  put  in  an  oven 
for  ten  minutes,  add  in  a  small  stew-pan  two  tablespoonsful  of 
furrant-jelly,  two  glasses  of  sherry,  put  on  the  fire,  and  when 
boiling  pour  over  and  serve.     Any  jam,  jelly,  or  marmalade,  will  do. 

Pancake  a  la  De  la  Pole. — Break  fom^  fresh  eggs,  separate  the 
yolk  from  the  white,  which  put  in  two  different  basins,  add  to  the 
yoke  two  tablespoonsful  of  white  pounded  sugar,  half  a  one  of  flour, 
half  the  rind  of  either  an  orange  or  lemon,  chopped  very  fine,  or  a  drop 
of  any  good  essence ;  beat  the  whole  together,  and  then  with  a  whisk 
whip  the  white  of  the  eggs  as  you  would  for  a  sponge-cake.  This  re- 
quires some  practice.  When  hard  and  white  as  snow,  mix  lightly  with 
the  yolk,  then  have  ready  a  very  clean  frying-pan,  which  put  on  a  slow 
fire,  add  an  ounce  of  butter,  when  melted  put  in  two  tablespoonsful  oi 


190  SOYEK'S   new   CHRISTMAS   RECEIPTS. 

tlie  batter,  let  it  Iry  half  a  minute,  then  toss  it  up  on  the  other  side, 
as  a  pancake,  turn  it  on  a  dish,  use  all  the  hatter  thus,  and  when 
done  put  them  one  on  the  other.  Sugar  over,  hake  ten  minutes,  and 
serve.  While  paying  a  visit  in  Devonshire,  v/here  I  invented  this 
dish,  I  introduced  a  gill  of  cream,  previously  whipped,  which  made  it 
very  delicate.     Ordinary  cream  may  he  used  instead. 

^ow  to  malce  Mincemeat, — Chop  fine  one  pound  of  heef  suet,  fcTir 
ounc  )s  of  lean  beef  previously  roasted,  half  a  pound  of  apples,  four 
ounc js  of  raisins  previously  stoned;  the  above  articles  must  be* 
chopped  separately ;  put  them  all  in  a  basin,  add  to  it  two  ounces  of 
candied  lemon  and  orange  peel  and  citron;  cut  these  small,  then  put 
in  a  quarter  ounce  of  mixed  spice,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  mix  the  whole 
well  together,  add  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
brandy,  stir  it,  put  it  in  a  jar,  and  use  when  required.  Stewed  tripe 
(cold)  may  be  used  instead  of  beef,  and  half  an  ounce  of  bitter 
almonds  and  lemon  peel.  The  above,  if  made  one  v^^eek  before 
Christmas,  will  answer  every  purpose,  as  I  wholly  object  to  fermen- 
tation. Line  your  patty -pan  with  pufr-paste,  No.  315a,  fill  thee-parts 
full  with  mincemeat,  cover  over  with  paste,  ^^^  over,  sugar,  and  bake. 

Moyal  Chistmas  Fare. — The  mince-meat  as  made  at  Windsor- 
Castle  every  year,  the  ingredients  being  mixed  one  month  before 
wanted,  is  as  follows:  240  lbs.  of  raisins,  400  lbs.  of  currants,  200  lbs, 
of  lump  sugar,  3  lbs.  of  cinnamon,  3  lbs,  of  nutmeg,  3  lbs.  of  cloves, 
3  lbu5.  of  ground  allspice,  2  lbs.  of  ginger,  300  lbs.  of  beef,  350  lbs.  of 
suet,  24  bushels  of  apples,  240  lemons,  30  lbs.  of  cedret,  72  bottles  of 
k-andy,  3  lbs.  of  mace,  60  lbs.  of  lemon-peel,  and  60  lbs.  of  orange- 
-peel. 

New  Style  of  Mince  Ties. — Have  ready  some  mince-pie  pans,  take 
some  firm  butter,  cover  the  inside  of  each  pan  with  it  to  the  depth 
of  an  eighth  of  an  inch,  lay  on  this  half  an  inch  of  bread  crumb, 
made  as  JSTo.  452,  let  it  aU  be  of  the  same  depth,  then  fill  your 
pans  with  stewed  apples,  as  above,  till  quite  full,  then  lay  on  some 
more  bread  crumbs,  on  which  put  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour  in  an  oven,  then  turn  out  on  a  dish.  They  will  be 
found  excellent.     You  may  use  any  kind  of  small  baking-dish. 

Apple  Toast. — Cut  six  apples  in  four  quarters  each,  take  the  core 
out,  peel  and  cut  them  in  slices;  put  in  a  saucepan  an  ounce  of 
butter,  then  throw  over  the  apples  about  two  ounces  of  white 
pounded  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water ;  put  the  saucepan  on 
the  fire,  let  it  stew  quickly,  toss  them  up,  or  stir  with  a  spoon:  a  few 
minutes  will  do  them.  When  tender,  cut  two  or  three  slices  of  bread 
half  an  inch  thick,  put  in  a  frying-pan  two  ounces  of  butter,  put  on 
the  fire ;  when  the  butter  is  melted,  put  in  your  bread,  which  fry 
of  a  nice  yellowish  colour;  when  nice  and  crisp,  take  them  out,  place 
them  on  a  dish,  a  little  white  sugar  over,  the  apples  about  an  inch 
thick.     Serve  hot. 


SOYEil'S  NEW  CHUTSTMAS  EECEIPTS.  191 

2nd  Lesson,  with  Improvements. — Egg  the  top  of  the  apples, 
bread-crumb,  and  put  a  little  butter  over;  put  them  in  the  oven  for 
half  an  hour,  sprinkle  over  with  sugar,  and  serve.  They  are  also 
good  cold.  A  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly,  or  any  nice  jam,  or  a 
glass  of  port,  sherry,  or  brandy  poured  over  is  excellent.  The  bread 
may  be  well  toasted,  buttered,  and  sugared  over,  the  bread  being 
cut  in  any  shape  you  may  fancy,  either  round  or  in  dice ;  they  will 
dish  well  in  crown  shape.  A  glass  of  rum  or  brandy  may  be  placed 
in  the  centre  and  set  on  fire  when  sent  to  table. 

If  served  cold,  whipped  cream  may  be  put  over. 

Amongst  my  Christmas  gifts  I  must  not  omit  one  of  the  simpjG.^t 
and  nicest  that  I  ever  concocted.  It  is  at  once  sim^ple  and  econo- 
mical, and  should  follow  the  immortal  plum-pudding. 

New  Manner  of  Stewing  Fears. — Take  six  large  pears,  well  ripe, 
which  at  this  season  of  the  year  can  be  bought  for  about  two  pence 
each,  cut  each  in  two  lengthways,  peel  them  slightly,  put  them  in  a 
very  clean  stewpan,  cover  them  over  with  three  ounces  of  white 
sugar  powdered,  slightly  peel  a  lemon,  cut  the  rind  into  small  strips, 
press  the  juice  on  top  of  the  sugar,  gently  shake  the  pan,  it  will 
dissolve  the  sugar,  then  put  it  on  a  very  slow  fire  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  shake  it  gently  once  or  twice,  turn  each  piece  with  a  fork 
put  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  stew  again  for  ten  minutes.  When 
done,  put  them  on  a  dish  to  cool,  then  dress  them  on  a  flat  dish, 
pour  the  syrup  over,  and  serve.    They  may  also  be  done  in  a  slow  oven. 

The  ahove  varied. — Two  teaspoonfuls  of  currant  jelly  or  jam, 
marmalade,  or  orange  may  be  mixed  with  syrup,  or  half  a  glass  of 
either  marasohino  or  brandy.  Any  kind  of  pear,  if  ripe,  will  do. 
The  core,  if  large,  must  be  removed. 

OMISSIOK 

Goose  Siuffincf. — For  a  middling  sized  bird,  peel  and  cut  in  two, 
crossways,  four  large-sized  onions,  weighing  altogether  about  one 
pound ;  slice  these  rather  fine,  chop  them  up  with  some  green  sage, 
or  bruise  with  both  hands  some  dry ;  then  put  in  a  black  pot  or  pan 
two  ounces  of  butter,  lard,  or  dripping ;  add  in  the  chopped  onions 
two  teaspoonsful  of  sage  if  green,  three  if  dry,  one  of  salt,  one  of 
brown  sugar,  half  one  of  pepper.  Set  this  on  a  slow  fire,  letting  it 
stew  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes ;  then  with  a  spoon  stufi*  your  bird 
while  the  onions  are  quite  hot.  This  may  be  done  in  winter  a  few 
days  before  it  is  put  to  the  spit,  as  it  imparts  to  the  goose  a  nice 
savoury  flavour. 

Jloto  to  vary  the  Staffing: — Four  tablespoonsful  o£  bread  crumb 
may  be  added,  or  two  of  broken  biscuit,  or  four  of  chopped  apples,  or 
four  of  rice,  oi  four  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  or  a  little  chopped  lemon, 
or  a  little  herbs  of  almost  any  kind,  or  chopped  boiled  beetroot. 


192 


INDEX. 


•»*  In  tliefolloioing  Index,  the  figures  with  the  letter  p.  refer  to  pages  ; 
the  other  numbers  refer  to  receipts. 


Bacon,  observations  on  curing, p.  32 

Batter 462 

for  toad  in  the  hole        .  461 
Beans,  see  Vegetables 
Beef,  to  choose  at  market,  p.  171 

a-la-mode  .  .  .191 
plainer  .  .  .  .192 
cold  .         .         .    166,  193 

aitch,  or  edgebone  of  .78 
brisket  .  .  ".  .78 
stew  in  baking  pan  .  .224 
Carthusian       .  Ill — 113 

collops  ....  169 
curry  of  .  .  .  .  159 
hashed  .  .  .  158a 
leg  of  .  .  .  .  174 
minced  .  .  166,  158,  239 
pudding  .         .  233 — 235 

„        roast  .   237,  238 

round  of  .        .        .        .78 
ribs,  salted       .        .        ,78 
„    baked,  p.  95 
„    semi-roasted      •        .  207 
baked,  p.  94 

salt  .         .         .        .     78,  227 

skirt         .         .        .        .78 

spiced       ....  226 

steak  in  baking-pan  171 — 173 

„    to  semi-fry      136 — 139a 

„    pie .        .        .        .  262 

„    family     .         .         .263 

„     devilled  .         .         .118 

„    with  eschalot  .        .118 

„    important   remarks 

on  .  .  .  117 
„  stewed  ....  224 
„  ragout  of  .  .  .188 
„  vegetables  with  .  .175 
„  as  bubble  and  squeak  .160 
Beverages,  p.  168 

Biscuit  balls      .        ,        ,        .458 

„     foreign .        •        •        .  400 

Bones,  devilled  •        •        .  442 

Bread,  on      ,  .        .        .        .402 

n    brown    .  •       .406 


Bread,  brown  rye 

„      cottage 

„      crumb 

„      keeping 

„      milk 

„        „    plainer 

«        »    rice 
Broiling,  p.  17 
Brown  gravies 
Browning. 
Butter  : — 

Anchovy 

Black,  or  burnt 

Maitre  d'hotel 

Melted  . 

Cakes  : — 

Almond 

Apple    . 

Bread  apple 

Cottage 

Cheese. 

Eccles    . 

Gallette,  poor  man' 
„        aristocrat] 

Gingerbread  , 

Ginger  . 

Milk      . 

Orange . 

Plain     . 

Plum    . 
„      common 

Preserve 

Kice 
„    plain 
„    common 
„    ground  . 

Rock    . 

Soda     .        « 

Spice    .        « 

Sweet   . 

Tipsy    , 

Small  cream 

Calf  s  brains 
„     feet 


INDEX 


193 


Calf's  feet  jelly.        ;        ; 

.  358 

EggSjboiled,  plain    ,        I 

301 

„      liead 

.     87 

„     boil,  to     .         .         . 

302 

„      lieart 

.  125 

„        „       for  toast 

303 

„      liver,  semi-fried 

147,190 

s,     baked 

304 

„         „    and  heart 

.  148 

„     bacon  and 

307 

„      heart,  stewed  . 

.  180 

„     convent  fashion 

308 

„      tails 

.  187 

„    mixed 

306 

„      tongue, head, &c.  pudding  243  | 

„    omelette,  or  fraise    . 

.  310 

Cheesecaices 

.  329 

„          „         with  herbs 

311 

Ciiemistry  of  food,  p.  5 

„    bacon 

312 

Chickens,  see  Poultry 

„          „          „    oysters  and 

Chopping  of  onions  . 

.  449 

shell-tish  . 

.  313 

Choice  of  meat,  &c.,  p.  170                   | 

„     omelette,  sweet 

.  314 

Cofiee 

.  446 

„          „        preserves    . 

314A 

„    original  hints  on 

.  466 

„          „        spirit 

.  315 

Coki  meats 

.    161,  166 

„    poached  . 

.  305 

Coloured  water 

453A 

„    sausages  .        .         ; 

309 

Crab,  see  Shell-fish. 

Cream,  Bohemian     . 

.  356 

Feet,  calves     . 

.     87 

„      Devonshire    • 

.  443 

»     pig's 

.  203 

„      pastry   . 

S87A 

„    sheep's     . 

.     83 

„      velvet    .        • 

.  371 

Fish  : — 

„      white     .        • 

,.  357 

How  to  boil  all  kinds,  p.  21. 

Croquettes,  rice 

.  372 

How  to  boil  sliced 

.     55 

Crust,  fruit 

.  327 

New  way 

.     56 

Cottage  roasting,  p.  90 

To  cook  in  oven    . 

.     59 

Cookery,  ignorance  of  th 

3  poor 

„      „     Lesson  Xo.  1    , 

.     60 

in,  p.  46 

Fried,  Jewish  fashion    . 

.     75 

Currant-jelly     . 

464b 

Fresh  water,  p.  23 

Curry,  fish 

.     89 

Fried,  p.  26 

„    rabbit      . 

.  205 

How  to  ascertain  when  done, 

p.  21 

„    tripe 

165A 

Brill      .... 

.     52 

„    meat 

.  159 

Cod       ...         . 

.     57 

Custard,  coffee  and  chocol 

ate     .  362 

„   liver        .        .           103- 

—110 

„      farm    . 

.  365 

„    sounds  and  melt      62,  6(i,  102 

„      plain    . 

.  361 

„    hard  roe 

.  101 

„      pie-dish,  in   . 

.  363 

Codlings 

.  222 

„       gooseberry  fool 

.  368 

Conger  eel     .         .        61,66,222 

Cutlets,  see  Lamb,  Mutton 

,Veal 

Curry    .... 

.     89 

Cheese  stirabout 

.    93 

Eels,  dried    .        . 

.     49 

Carthusian  of  meat  and 

vege- 

„     fresh     ...        50,  59 

tables    . 

111—114 

„    fried     . 

.     71 

„    stewed.        .        .93- 

—100 

Dinner,  our  Christmas 

.     85 

Flounders 

.     47 

Dish,  an  improved  baking 

,p.  94 

Fritters 

.  161 

Drinks  : — 

Gurnets         .         .         .      67,222 

Api^le,  &e.     . 

467—473 

Hallibut        .         .         .      66,222 

Dough  . 

.  340 

„        Jewish  fashion 

.     75 

Dumplings,  apple 

347A, 348 

in  oil 

.     77 

„          li-mon 

.  347 

Hake     .         .         .         .62,66 

„          nursery  fruit 

.  328 

Haddock        .         .        40,  62,  222 

„          simple  suet 

.  349 

Herring,  red  . 

.     38 

fresh        .         39,71,220 

Eggs,  on,  p.  i15 

Ling      .         .         .         62,66,222 

„    to  ascertain  if  fresl 

I           ,   300 

Mackerel       .        .    42,  43,  44,  45 

.,    ancients  on,  p.  115 

„        in  baking  stewpar 

220 

194 


xsjmsL 


Fisn-^coivHnueeS,) 

• 

GAMii^Ccontinued.) 

Mackerel,  in  pie-dislj    ." 

a, 

69 

Kabbit  curry                           :  205 

pickled  . 

, 

70 

„     plain,  for  invalids      .206 

Pilchard 

. 

221 

Rook,  young,  pudding  .        .255 

Plaice   . 

CO,  67,  74 

Giblets 26 

Salads  .        .        .        , 

, 

440 

Gridiron,  what  I  can  cook  with 

Salmon,  salted 

, 

48 

my,  p.  17 

„        fresh 

, 

64 

Salt 

. 

57 

Haddocks,  see  Fish 

Small,  to  cook 

48 

Ham,    important   observations 

Sauce    . 

.     45 

413 

on,  p.  32       .        .        .        .82 

Soles     , 

72,  73,  47 

Herbs,  sweet,  bunch  of     .        .451 

Sprats  .        .        .        , 

, 

221 

Tench   . 

58 

Lmagination,  effect  of,  p.  63 

Turbot  . 

, 

53 

Irish  stew         .         .         .         .183 

Whiting 

, 

61 

Iron  pot,  three-legged,  introduc- 

In baking  stewpaa 

> 

218 

tion  to,  p.  29 

Pieces  of  in  ditto  . 

, 

219 

Eels           ditto 

,         , 

223 

Jam          .        .        .        .        464A 

Puddings 

, 

256 

Jelly          .         .         .         .         464b 

„          plainer  . 

, 

257 

„  isinglass  and  gelatine       .355 

„         mackerel 

. 

258 

„   calfs-foot.         .         .         .358 

eel 

, 

259 

„   orange       ....  359 

Pies       . 

266 

„  lemon                .        .        .360 

Fritters     . 

161- 

-163 

Fruits:— 

Kidneys,  broiled      .        .        .134 

„      damson 

,         , 

384 

ox     .        .           177—17? 

Apple,  buttered     . 

,         , 

383 

„         pudding    .         .         .246 

„     fritters 

381 

lOtchen  requisites     .        .        .174 

„     cake    . 

392 

,396 

„      drinks 

467- 

-473 

Lamb,  p.  33 

„     rice  water    . 

470 

„      boiled  leg  of .        .        .83 

„     stewed,  Nos.  1,  2, 

8      . 

384 

„      chop      .         .        .        .126 

„     sauce   . 

414 

„      choice  of,  p.  171 

Currant  jelly         , 

464b 

„     curry     .        .        .        .159 

Fritters 

161- 

-163 

„      fry         ....  149 

Yarious,  stewed    . 

,         , 

384 

„     head      .        .        .   115,194 

Frying,  on,  p.  55 

„      heart     .         .         .         .125 

„       pan,  p.  48 

„     kidneys         •        •        .134 

Fry,  semi . 

. 

136 

„      leg         ....  194 

„       Lessons  on 

140 

,141 

„      neck      .        .        .         .194 
,«     roasted,  semi         .        .210 

Game  :— 

„      baked    .         .         .         .231 

Hare,  toad  in  the  hole 

215 

„     tongue,  head,  and  feet 

„    jugged 

216 

pudding      .         .         .249 

„        „     marinaded 

217 

„     roasting,  time  for  .        .231 

Larks    . 

215 

Larding    .        .       ,.        •        .450 

Partridge  and  cabbage 

pud- 

Liver,  ox           .        .        .96,244 

ding  . 

254 

„    cod .        .        .          104—109 

Rabbits,  large  Dutch 

204 

„       „  stuffing        .         .         .459 

Kabbit,  semi-roasted 

212 

„       „  balls  ....  460 

„      toad  in  the  hole 

215 

„     calves'      .     147,148,190,244 

„      pudding     . 

251 

„     lamb's       .         .         ,    244,245 

„      pie      . 

265 

„     stuffing     .         .         .         ,457 

„      boiled 

84 

„     semi-fried  • 

153 

Mackerel,  see  Fish 

INDEX. 


195 


Macareni .        .        .        .        .463 
Meats,  a  series  of  receipts  on    .     95 
Marketing,  on,  p.  170 
Meal,  Indian  poulenta      .        94,  95 
Meat,  boiled,  cold,  and  broiled 

130,  226 
curry  ....  159 
„  fritters  .  .  .  161,  162 
3,  minced  .  ,  .  156,  158 
,„  hashed  .  .  .  158a 
^  remains  of  cold  .  .166 
„  puddings.  .  .  .  233 
„  in  baker's  oven,  p.  93 
J,  toad  in  the  hole  c  .215 
„    Carthusian       .  1I1*«114 

Mussels,  445,  see  Sauce 
Mushrooms       .        •        •        •  443 
Mutton  :— 

„      boiled    .        .        .        .81 
„     chops    .        .        .   120, 121 
„      cutlets   .         .         .         .142 
„     choice  of  at  market,  p.  171 
„      pudding  .         .         .  247 

ff     ragout  of       .        .  97A 

„  remains  of  .  .  .168 
„  ragout,  brown,  of  .  .188 
„  roasted,  semi  .  .208 
„     roasting,  on  .        .   230,  232 

Omelettes,  see  Eggs 

Onions,  to  chop         .         .         .  449 

Oven,  baker's  meat,  p.  93 

Ox  cheek  .        .         .         .115 

„  „  toad  in  the  hole  .  .215 
„  heart  125,  177,  179 

„   tail 176 

„  kidneys  %        .         ,177 

„  liver,  1st  Lesson  on  .  .  155 
„  tongue,  potted  and  braized.  184 
„  „  fresh  and  pickled  .  185 
„  tripe,  curried  .  .  16  5 A 
„  „  pickled  .  .  .  165 
„  „  Lyons  way  .  .164 
„  ,,  toad  in  the  hole  .165 
,t      ,,      sauted  or  semi-fried, 

86,  165A 


Tancake 

ra.ste,  puiT 
„      „    half 
V      „    another 
„      „    plainer    . 
„       „    short 
„    pudding 

Pastry,  on,  p.  119. 
FruiV     «        »        , 


.  380 
315A 
.  316 
318a 
.  317 
,  SIS 
.  319 


320,  321,  S23 


FAST'RY'^CconU  nued.) 

Plain  puff     . 

Small    . 
Pease  pudding 
„    panada  . 
Pi-ckles 
Pies,  how  to  make 

„    introduction,  p. 

,,    artisan's  pie 

„    beefsteak 

„     family      ^ 

J,    veal 

„    pork 

„    fish 

„    hare 

„    rabbit 

„    poor  man's 
Pig's  kidneys    . 

„    heart 

„    liver 

„    brain  and  tongue 


.  126 
126 


323A 
.  322 

.  454 
.  92 
.  465 


.  268 
.  262 
.  2G3 
.  264 
.  264 
.  266 
.  267 
.  265 
.  269 
134,  146 
125,  ISO 
.  213 
.  242 


Useful  hints  on  the  sucking-pig, 
p.  83 

Poached  eggs,  see  Eggs 

Pork,  to  choose,  p.  171 

„    with  apples      .  .  196,  197 

„    bladebone        .  .  .215 

„     chops        .         .  •  124,  145 

„     curry        .         ,  .  .159 

„    hashed     .        .  .  15  8A 
„    leg,  baked,  p.  95 

„    pie  .         .         .  .  .  264 

„     pudding  .         .  .  .  2'50 

„     salt           .         .  198—201 

„    toad  in  the  hole  .  .215 
„    beef,  and  vegetables, 

Carthusian     .  .  .111 

„    boiled      .        .  .  .79 

„    sausages  .        .  .  .128 

„    black  puddings  .  .129 
„    sausages  and  kidneys       .  I'l.'j 

„     semi-roasted     .  .  ,209 

Poultry          .        ,  *  ,150 
To  choose,  p.  173 

Chicken  pudding  .  •  .254 

Devilled         .         .  .  .154 
Ducks,  p.  173 

Fowls   ....  150,  151 

Fritters  '        .         -  .  .161 
Geese,  p.  173 

Pigeons          .         .•  e  135,  152 

Turkey,  boiled       .  .  .85 

roasted      .  .  .  2M 

semi-roasted  .  .211 

Koasting        ,         ,  ,  .233 

Pudding       •        .  .  252,  253 


196 


INDEX. 


Puddings  : — 

FuiymsGS—(c(mtinued.)                       f 

Observations  on    .        ; 

.  236 

Dough,  with  apples 

.  376 

Baked   . 

.  260 

Yorkshire,  1st  class 

.    225, 377 

Meat,  on 

.  233 

2d    do. 

.  378 

Beef      . 

.  234 

„          3d    do. 

.          .379 

„    with  kidneys 

.  235 

Roast  beef    . 

237,  238 

Relishes  : — 

Slince  beef,  with  eggs 

.  239 

Bones,  devilled 

131,132,412 

Veal 

.  240 

Herring  with  whisL 

y    .       .  411 

Calves'  brain  and  tongue       .241 

Mushrooms    . 

.  413 

Sheeps',  lambs',  and  pigs'  do.  242 

Mussels 

.  415 

Calves'  head  and  tongue        .243 

Oysters  on  toast    . 

.  446 

Lamb,  veal,  and  ox  liver       .244 

„        scalloped  . 

.  447 

Do.  plainer    . 

.  245 

Rabbit,  Welsh       . 

.   4^4 

Liver  and  kidney . 

.  246 

„        Irish 

.  444 

Mutton 

.  247 

Scallops 

.  448 

Sheep's  head,  tongue,  &c.       .  248  j 

Toast  broiled  and  devilled        3  ?? 

Lamb    . 

.  249 

Rabbits,  see  Game 

Pork     , 

.  250 

Rice:— 

Rabbit  . 

.  251 

With  apples  .        i 

.  350 

Chicken 

„  252 

How  to  boil  . 

.          .   455 

Pigeon 

.  253 

Cakes    . 

387,390,  401 

Do.  in  brown  gravy 

.  253 

Bread    . 

.  406 

Partridge  and  cabbage 

.  254 

Croquettes     • 

.  372 

Young  rook  . 

.  255 

Preserve 

.  350 

Fisli       . 

.  256 

Panada 

.     91 

Do.  plainer    . 

.  257 

Pudding 

.  351 

Mackerel 

.  258 

Savoury 

.     90 

Eel        .        .        . 

.  259 

Roasting,  on,  p.  88 

Baked   . 

.  260 

How  to  roast,  p.  8S 

Ilalf-stcamed 

.  261 

»      by  ga 

s,  p.  90 

Important  observations,  p.  103 

Jack,  see  Appendix 

Cloths,  on 

.  261 

Time  table  for 

.     91 

^Sweet,  p.  12S 

Cottage 

.     90 

Plum     . 

.  334 

Semi     . 

.   207 

3Iould  . 

.  335 

Fruit     . 

S35A 

Salads,  on,  p.  155 

Curd  milk      , 

.  336 

Beans,  French 

.  436 

Cocoa-nut      .         • 

.  337 

„        Haricot  an 

d  lentil      435a 

Plain  rice      .         • 

.  338 

Beet-root 

.   4  36 

Spotted  dick 

.  339 

Brussels  sprouts     . 

.   43G 

Apple  and  paste   • 

.  341 

Cabbage  lettuce    . 

.  4-29 

Suet      . 

.  342 

Celery  .         .         « 

.  436 

Bread    . 

.  343 

Crab      .         .        * 

.  440 

Brown  bread 

.  344 

Cucumber     .        , 

.   43G 

Rice,  vermicelli,  and  macaroni  345 

Dandelion     .        , 

,         ,          .  4S2 

Broken  biscuit 

344A 

Endive .         .         < 

,          .  430 

For  a  large  family  and  school  346 

French . 

.  431 

Rice  and  preserve 

.  350 

Fish      . 

,    i29,  440 

Ground  rice  .        % 

.  351 

Lettuce,  coss 

•         .    428 

Handy  . 

.  353 

Marsh  mallow 

.  432 

Young  Engiana     . 

.  354 

Meat     . 

.   438 

Bread,  custard,  various  ways  367 

Mustard  and  cress 

.  433 

'K.gg      . 

.  366 

Onions  . 

.  436 

Lemon .        , 

.  373 

Potatoes 

.  437 

Potato  , 

.  375 

I'oultry 

.  438 

INDEX. 


197 


BAtADS-^icontinued.) 

Sow  s-^(coninmed.) 

Kadish  .        .        .         . 

.  436 

Hodge-podge 

.     25 

Sauce    .        .        •        . 

.  434 

Meagre . 

.     19 

Vegetables  for       • 

.  435 

Meat,  various 

.     26 

Water  cresses       • 

.  432 

Macaroni 

.     10 

Fruit     ,        .        • 

369,370 

Mock  turtle  . 

.     14 

Sauces  :— 

Mutton  broth,  new 

.     32 

Anchovy       .        I 

.  411 

Mulligatawny 

.     31 

Apple   .        •        •        • 

.  414 

Ox-cheek 

.     30 

Brown  .        •        •        « 

.  412 

Ox-tail 

.     29 

Bread    .        .        • 

425E 

Ox-cheek  in  pan 

.     35 

Caper    .        .        •        « 

.  423 

Ox-tail         „ 

.     34 

Celery  .        .        •        « 

.  411 

Pea,  cheap    . 

.     36 

Chili  vinegar 

.  411 

„    meagre 

.     37 

Cod  liver      .        •        . 

.  413 

Pot-au-ieu,  FrencI 

I         .         .     97 

Crab     .        •        •        . 

.  413 

I^umpkin 

.     18 

Cream  .        •        •        « 

.  424 

Parsnip 

•         •22 

Cucumber     •        • 

.  411 

Potato  . 

.     33 

Curry    .         •        •         • 

425B 

Rice      .         .         , 

.     11 

Do.  simpler  •        •        • 

425C 

Semolina 

.     12 

Egg      ...        . 

•  411 

Swedes 

•         .22 

Fennel .        •        •        < 

425C 

Stock  for 

.       1 

Fish      .        .        .        , 

.  413 

„      simplified 

.       1 

Harvey's       •        •        « 

.  411 

Tapioca 

•     12 

Horse-radish          •        « 

.  416 

Turnip 

.     21 

Hotel-keepers*       •        i 

.  418 

Do.  cieas" 

•         •       7 

Lobster 

.  413 

Vegetabi^,  clear 

.       5 

Melted  butter,  1  and  2 

.  410 

>»            »♦ 

.       6 

Mint     . 

.  415 

„             thick, 

or  puree  .    1 7 

Mussell 

.  413 

„            marrc 

)w     .        .20 

Mustard 

.  425 

Vermicelli     . 

.      10,164 

Onion   . 

,    411,422 

White,  vdth  veget 

ables         .     IQ 

Oyster  and  mussel 

.  413 

„           meat 

.     13 

Pickle  . 

.  413 

Seasoning 

.    172, 173 

Snge  and  onioa     . 

.  411 

Sheep's  brains 

:  181 

Salad    . 

.  434 

„      feet      . 

.     88 

Sharp    . 

.  420 

„      heart    . 

.   180 

Simple .        ,        • 

.  421 

„      tongue  and  1 

3rain  pudding, 

Shrimp          ,        , 

.  413 

242 

Soyer's  Relish 

.  411 

Stewpan,  baking,  p. 

69 

„        INIustard   • 

.         .411 

Stock  for  soups 

.      1 

Spirit  sauce  . 

.         .  417 

„      „  simplified 

2 

Vegetable  marrow 

.  411 

Stuffing,  cod-liver 

.  459 

"White  sauce  . 

.    413,419 

„        liver  . 

.  457 

Soups: — 

„        veal 

.  456 

American  butter  squasl 

i         .     18 

Artichokes,  Jerusalem 

.       8 

Tarts,  plain    . 

.  333 

Autumn  and  Spring,  nc 

>W      .     23 

Tea,  a  few  hints  on 

.  466 

Carrot  . 

.       9 

Toast,  broiled  and  d 

evil  led       .  133 

„      red     . 

.     22 

Toad  in  the  hole,  I\( 

).  1     .            215 

„      white 

.     22 

No.  2,  potatoes 

Cock-a-leekie 

.     23 

Ko.  3,  peas 

M        new 

.     23 

No.  4,  cooked  mea 

t 

Cow-heel 

.     15 

No.  5,  calf's  brain 

3 

Giblet  . 

.     26 

No.  6,  larks  and  S] 

narrows 

Hare    . 

27,28 

No.  7,  ox-cheek 

198 


INBEa. 


Toad  in  the  h )  e       .        • 

215 

Vegetables— Ccoj^^mwed.) 

1 

No.  8,  rabbit 

Greens, 

cabbage    . 

•  28,! 

No.  9,  hare 

,i 

spring       . 

No.  10,  pDrk 

„ 

thousand  heads 

Ko.  11,     „    salt 

Haricots 
Kail      . 

.    202, 

294,  29^1 
.  29J' 

Veal,  boiled    ,        . 

80 

Lentils 

•         • 

294,  29 i\ 

,      cutlets  .         .    123,  143 

,144 

Nettles 

•         •         • 

29 

,      cliops      .         .         .         . 

122 

Peas,  green  . 

0(     ' 

,      cutlets  for  the  aged 

170 

„     large  dry     , 

.    287: 

,      choice  of,  p.  170 

Potatoes 

,  on 

.  270 

^     leg  of,  baked 

186 

„ 

boiled    . 

.   271 

,      remains  of     . 

168 

»» 

how  to  choose 

.  270 

,      ragout  of       .         .         . 

188 

„ 

new 

.  272 

,      stuffing 

456 

» 

baked    . 

.  273 

,      fillet  of 

189 

» 

with    sausage 

or 

,      in  baking  stew-pan 

214 

Soyer's 

.  274 

,     roasting,  time  for,  p.  91 

»» 

mashed 

.275 

„      pie         ...        . 

264 

if 

new,  roasted . 

,  27 

„      pudding 

241 

it 

fried      . 

.  2*    • 

Vegetables,  on  the  selection  of, 

»» 

fried,  cooked 

.  i    1 

p.  175 

„ 

pudding 

.  sv. 

Ai-tichokes,  Jerusalem  . 

277 

Parsnip 

.  281 

„           with  cheese  sauce 

293 

Sea  kale 

.  284 

Asparagus     .... 

283 

Spinach 

.  288 

„          sprew . 

283 

Savoys 

285,28- 

Beans,  broad 

290 

Sprouts 

.  21 

„      Windsor     . 

290 

„        Brussels   . 

2 

„      French  and  kidney     . 

291 

Sweet  docks  . 

2dGA 

Beet,  red  and  white 

282 

Swedes 

o 

.  279 

Brocoli           .... 

292 

„        with  cheese  sauce 

293 

Thousand  heads    • 

.  283 

Carrots          .... 

280 

Turnips 

.        *.        • 

278,  28S 

„        white 

281 

Cabbage,  stewed   . 

287 

Vegetable  for  salads     . 

.  435 

„         red,  pickled    . 

465 

„ 

pudding 

.  114 

Caulifiower    .... 

292 

with  cheese  sauce 

293 

Water,  coloured           | 

•*&3A 

C 

/Clerj  .        *                •        . 

284 

J 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


.,^^piipRii^iiiii 


l^iM^i 


