SMILEY'S  MANUAL 


OF 


Practical  Information 


AND  STANDARD 


HOUSEHOLD  GUIDE. 


A  Book  Adapted  to  the  Every  -  Day  Use  of  the  People,  Com- 

prising  a  Treasury  of  Domestic  Recipes,  and  being 

a  Reliable   Guide    for   Conducting    the 

Various    Departments    of 

Household  Work.  ^_ 


APPROPRIATELY  ILLUSTRATED. 


iWG  30  1894 


is. 


7 


CHICAGO,  ILL.: 
JAMES  B.  SMILEY,  Publisher, 

232  West  Washington  Street. 
1804. 


4 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  Eighteen  Hundred  and  Ninety-Four,  by 

JAMES  B.  SMILEY, 
In  the  office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress  at  Washington. 

All  Rights  Reserved. 


THIS  BOOK  IS  SOLD  BY  SUBSCRIPTION  ONLY.    Those  desiring  a  copy, 
and  not  knowing  any  agent,  should  address  the  publisher. 


PREFACE. 

The  following  pages  are  the  result  of  many  years  of  experiment,  investigation 
and  study.  We  have  aimed  to  prepare  a  work  for  the  use  of  housekeepers  on  a 
more  thorough  and  comprehensive  plan  than  has  been  heretofore  attempted. 
As  the  book  is  intended  for  the  use  of  the  average  housekeeper,  there  is  nothing  in 
it  which  cannot  be  easily  understood  by  any  person  of  ordinary  intelligence,  for  we 
have  taken  much  pains  to  present  the  results  of  modern  scientific  investigations 
in  a  clear  and  simple  way,  avoiding,  as  far  as  possible,  the  use  of  technical 
terms.  Most  of  the  household  books  in  current  use  give  the  processes  for  doing 
things  merely,  with  no  attempt  to  explain  the  reasons  for  the  processes  or  the 
principles  which  underlie  them.  We  also  give  as  clearly  as  possible 
the  most  detailed  directions  in  all  our  recipes,  but  we  do  not  stop  there,  as  we 
think  any  one  can  work  more  intelligently  by  understanding  not  only  how  to  do 
a  certain  thing,  but  also  why  it  is  done  one  way  rather  than  another,  and  the 
principles  which  underlie  the  process.  For  this  reason  throughout  the  work  we  sys- 
tematically explain  principles  as  well  as  processes.  We  have  long  felt  that  a  sad 
defect  in  most  cook  books  is  their  utter  failure  to  explain  those  simple, 
fundamental  principles  which  every  cook  should,  if  possible,  understand.  If  these 
principles  are  once  thoroughly  understood  the  mystery  and  uncertainty  of  kitchen 
operations  will  vanish,  and  cooking  will  simply  be  adopting  certain  clearly  under- 
stood methods  to  produce  certain  definite  results,  and  success  Will  always  follow. 

Within  the  last  few  years  much  excellent  work  has  been  done  by  the  scientists 
who  have  been  investigating  the  chemistry  of  cooking  and  the  chemical  com- 
position and  nutritive  value  of  the  different  foods.  We  have  endeavored  to 
clearly  present  to  our  readers  the  most  important  results  of  their  labors,  for  we 
believe  the  time  has  come  for  housekeepers  to  understand  both  the  composition 
of  foods  and  their  nutritive  value,  as  well  as  the  chemical  changes  produced  in 
them  by  the  various  operations  of  cooking. 

For  years  we  have  been  gathering  material  for  this  book,  resulting  in  the 
accumulation  of  a  great  mass  of  recipes.  These  have  been  culled  and  tested,  and 
in  making  selections  our  rule  has  been  to  choose  those  which  were  most  sim- 
ple and  economical,  because  the  book  is  primarily  designed  for  the  use  of  the 
masses,  whose  means  are  always  limited,  and  we  aim  to  meet  their  every  day  wants, 
although  we  present  also  an  ample  number  of  more  elaborate  recipes  suitable  for 
special  occasions.  Our  endeavor  has  been  to  make  the  collection  as  complete  and 
comprehensive  as  possible,  and  to  give  new,  choice  and  well-tested  recipes  in 
every  department  of  household  cookery. 

In  preparing  this  work  we  have  constantly  had  four  main  objects  in  view. 
(1)  To  secure  the  fullest,  latest,  and  most  reliable  information  possible  on  the 
subjects  treated.  (2)  To  explain  processes  and  methods  for  saving  time 
and  labor,  for  the  average   housewife  is  sadly  overworked  and  her  time  and 


4  PREFACE. 

strength  are  of  the  utmost  value.  (3)  To  select  the  best  and  most  economical 
recipes;  and  (4)  to  point  out  ways  to  prevent  waste- 
In  the  general  department  of  household  topics  we  present  a  more  complete 
and  systematic  treatment  of  the  various  subjects  connected  with  household 
management  than  can  be  found  elsewhere,  and  the  information  therein 
contained  will  certainly  be  of  great  practical  value  to  housekeepers.  The 
effort  of  the  editor  has  been  to  produce  a  thoroughly  reliable  and  comprehensive 
guide  to  housekeeping  in  all  its  branches,  which  no  housewife  can  afford  to  do 
without.  The  book  has  not  been  written  by  any  one  individual,  but  many  pens 
have  been  employed  more  or  less  in  its  preparation. 

The  book  will  certainly  shed  much  needed  light  on  the  problems  which  confront 
and  often  harass  housekeepers,  explain  the  fundamental  principles  which  under- 
lie their  work,  and  present  a  mass  of  recipes  which  will  materially  aid  them  in 
their  labors,  and  we  are  convinced  that  there  is  no  subject  more  intimately 
connected  with  the  welfare  of  the  people  than  that  of  housekeeping  in  its  various 
branches.  The  Editor. 


SABt-E  SHOWING  THE  COMPARATIVE  AMOUNT  OF  NUTRIENTS  iN  DIFFER- 

ENX  FOODS. 


The  following  table  will  show  the  comparative  amount  of  nutrients,  after  evaporating 
the  water,  remaining  in  the  edible  portions  of  the  more  important  articles  of  food,  i.  e„  after 
removing  the  refuse,  like  bones,  shell,  skin,  etc.  The  nutritive  value  of  the  different  foods, 
and  the  elements  of  which  they  are  composed,  are  explained  more  fully  elsewhere,  but 
this  table  will  bring  clearly  before  the  eye,  at  a  glance,  the  striking  difference  in  the  nutri- 
tive value  of  different  foods.  In  vegetables,  one  of  their  great  benefits  to  the  system  is  de- 
rived from  the  potash  and  other  salts  which  they  contain,  as  we  elsewhere  explain,  and 
these  make  little  showing  in  a  table  like  this,  but  the  table  will  serve  to  give  some  idea  of 
the  value  as  food  of  different  articles.  There  is  a  lamentable  ignorance  at  the  present 
time  regarding  the  true  value  to  the  system  of  different  articles  of  food,  causing  much  loss, 
which  is  especially  burdensome  to  poor  people. 


Beef,  Brisket  of. ■ 

Beef,  Dried - 

Beef,  Flank  of ■ 

Beef,  Flank,  Corned.- 

Beef,  Neck  of - 

Beef,  Ribs  of. - 

Beef,  Shoulder  of. ...  ■ 

Beef,  Sirloin  of ■ 

Beef,  Round  of ■ 

Beef,  Liver  of ■ 

Beef,  Heart  of. - 

Beef,  Tongue  of ■ 

Veal,  Shoulder  of...- 
Mutton,  Breast  of ..  .■ 
Mutton,  Flank  of. ...  ■ 

Mutton,  Leg  of - 

Mutton,  Neck  of....« 
Mutton,  Shoulder  of- 

Lamb,  Leg  of ■ 

Lamb,  Loin  of.. ■ 

Lamb,  Neck  of ■ 

Lamb,  Shoulder  of. .  ■ 
Pork,  Shoulder  roast- 
Pork,  fat,  salt  ........ 

Pork,  smoked  ham..- 

Sausage,  Pork - 

Tripe,  soused ■ 

Chicken - 

Turkey - 

Eggs,  Hen's - 

Bass,  black ■ 

Blue  Fish - 

Codfish,  fresh - 

Codfish,  salt - 

Eel,  saltwater ■ 

Flounder ■ 

Haddock ■ 

Haddock,  smoked...  - 

Halibut,  fresh ■ 

Halibut,  smoked.... - 

Herring,  fresh - 

Mackerel,  fresh ■ 

Mackerel,  salted ■ 

Salmon,  fresh = 

Sardines,  canned. . .  .- 

Trout,  brook - 

Whitefish - 

Clams - 

Lobsters,  fresh - 

Oysters,  fresh .- 

Shrimp ...... 


MEATS,  ETC. 


FISH  AND  SHELL-FISH. 


(5) 


DAIRY  PRODUCTS. 


VEGETABLES. 


Milk - 

Butter — — 

Cheese,  full  cream..—^^— 
Cheese,  skim  milk.. .— ^^^ 
Oleomargarine  — i^~ 

Asparagus ^^ 

Beans,  Lima,  green. ■■^^—n™^^^^™™™ 
Beans,  string,  green.^— ^-™ 

Beans,  dried ^ ■ mmmh 

Beets "^^^^ 

Cabbage — ~ 

Carrots ■—■ —™ 

Cauliflower ,■— «^« 

Cucumber — 

Corn,  sweet,  green  .^ ■■ 
Corn,  sweet,  canned— "^—"-—"i^^ 

Egg  Plant — 

Lettuce ™™^ 

Onions ^— ^^— 

Okra ^^^— 

Peas,  green — ^— ^— ^™ 

Peas,  dried — — b— — ■= 

Potatoes ^mm^^^^mmm^ 

Potatoes,  sweet — ■ ■— — — ■— ■■■— 

Pumpkin «^™ 

Rice — — ■ 

Spinach * 

Squash k^h 

Turnips „„_„. 

Tomatoes — 

CEREALS,  ETC. 

Barley,  pearl ™^ — - ~-"-^^™ 

Flour,  graham.......  .-^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

Flour,  entire  wheat.  ^^™"^-^^~^^^^—^^^™"™ 
Flour,  buckwheat..  .^^^-^^^^^^^^^^^-^— ^^ 

Flour,  rye ^^^^^^™^^™»^™«— — «^^™ 

Flour,  wheat — — — — — -^— >— 

Cornmeal ^ ^— — «^ ^^^— ■ 

Oatmeal ^ •»■— ™ 

White  hominy >^ — —- "-^"— »^^^— 

Buckwheat  farina. .  .^^— ^ ^ »^— aHH 

Bread,  graham i 

Bread,  rye ™«iD».^_„=_Q_=„»^ra™__i™— 

Bread,  wheat -■  '— i 

Boston  crackers -■ 

Graham  crackers '  ■  ■■■—  ■ ■■■!   . 

Oatmeal  crackers ....  '——'■—»■  ...—j^ 


FRUITS. 
Apples m 

Bananas — .      , , 

Blackberries — ^—m 

Cherries ■——»«■ 

Cocoanuts 

Cranberries, . 

GrapeS... n—aaanaMmn. 

Lemons ■■-nm. 

Peaches ■  i 

Pineapples — — — 

Strawberries ■  ■  «— 

Watermelon __, 

Whortleberries —<_»_« 

Walnuts,. , «.««M___aMM_M__n. 


<«> 


TABLES  Of  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

Notice.— The  standard  of  measure  which  we  have  adopted  in  this  hook  is  the  ordinary 
coffee  cup,  which  holds  Vz  pint.  Where  not  otherwise  specified,  we  always  mean  that  by  a 
cup.  Of  course  the  size  of  the  cups  and  spoons  in  actual  use  vary  somewhat,  and  extraor- 
dinary dampness  or  dryness  of  the  materials  will  affect  their  weight,  but  these  tables  are 
as  accurate  as  we  can  make  them.  Ln  making  up  any  recipe,  using  the  same  measure 
throughout  will  keep  the  proportions  correct. 

Before  measuring  sugar,  meal,  flour,  soda,  salt  and  spices,  they  should  be  sifted.  Ma- 
terials like  baking  powder  or  mustard,  which  have  been  packed,  should  be  stirred  and 
crushed  if  you  do  not  sift  them. 

To  get  Vz  a  spoonful,  fill  the  spoon,  divide  it  through  the  center  lengthwise,  and  use  one 
half.  To  get  an  even  spoonful  of  any  dry  material,  fill  the  spoon  and  level  it  off  with  a 
knife.  A  heaping  spoonful  is  all  it  will  hold.  To  get  a  spoonful,  fill  the  spoon  and  shake  it 
a  little  until  it  is  slightly  rounded  on  top. 

As  a  cup  is  smaller  at  the  bottom  than  at  the  top,  54  a  cup  does  not  mean  to  fill  it  54  the 
way  up,  but  a  little  more  than  that.  The  tin  measuring  cups  holding  54  pint,  and  divided 
into  fourths  and  thirds,  are  the  best  to  use;  they  can  be  purchased  at  tin  or  hardware 
stores. 

Throughout  the  work,  to  save  space  we  drop  off  the  "  ful "  in  such  words  as  "cupful," 
"tablespoonful,"  etc.,  and  write  simply  "cup,"  "tablespoon,"  etc.  We  always  mean  full 
measure  unless  we  add  the  word  "heaping,"  or  "scant." 


COMMON  ARTICLES  OF  FOOD. 

Barley:— 1  cup  weighs  4  ounces;  1  table- 
spoon, heaped,  Vz  ounce. 

Bread  crumbs,  grated:— 1  cup  weighs  2 
ounces. 

Butter: — 1  even  cup,  hard  or  melted, 
weighs  7  ounces;  a  rounded  tablespoon 
weighs  1  ounce;  the  "size  of  an  egg" 
weighs  2  ounces. 

Coffee,  ground:— 4  cups  weigh  1  pound;  1 
cup  weighs  4  ounces;  2  rounded  table- 
spoons weigh  1  ounce. 

Cornmeal: — 1  even  cup  weighs  454  ounces; 
a  heaping  tablespoon  Vz  ounce. 

Corn-starch: — 1  cup  weighs  8  ounces;  a 
heaping  tablespoon  54  ounce. 

Currants:— 1  cup,  cleaned  and  dried, 
weighs  6  ounces. 

Eggs: — 10  eggs,  average  size  (or  9  if  very 
large)  weigh  1  pound;  1  white  of  egg 
weighs  about  1  ounce,  and  1  yolk  about 
1  ounce. 

Flour  (wheat,  well  sifted  always):— 1 
quart,  heaped,  weighs  1  pound;  1  cup 
level,  weighs  4  ounces,  or  6  ou  nces  when 
heaped;  1  tablespoon,  heaped,  holds  1 
ounce;  1  teaspoon,  heaped,  Vz  ounce. 

Lard:— Same  as  butter. 

Meat: — 1  solid  cup  of  chopped  meat  weighs 
8  ounces;  a  pint=l  pound. 

Nutmegs:— 5  medium  sized  nutmegs  weigh 
1  ounce. 

Raisins: — 1  cup  weighs  Vz  pound,  or  8 
ounces. 

Rice: — 1  cup  weighs  8  ounces;  1  table- 
spoon, heaped,  Vz  ounce. 

Salt:— A  "pinch"  =1  saltspoon. 

Sago:— 1  cup  weighs  8  ounces;  1  table- 
spoon, heaped,  Vz  ounce. 

Suet:— Same  as  butter. 

Sugar,  granulated,  or  dry  brown:— 1  cup, 
heaped,  weighs  8  ounces;  1  tablespoon, 
heaped,  Vz  ounce. 

Tea:— 1  cup,  heaped,  weighs  2  ounces;  1 
tablespoon,  heaped,  weighs  %  ounce;  1 
teaspoon,  heaped,  V%  ounce. 


LIQUIDS. 

Cream:— 1  cup  holds  Vz  pint  and 
ounces.   - 


weighs  7 


„unces.  • 
Milk:— 1  cup  holds  Vz  pint  and  weighs  8 

ounces. 
Molasses:— 1  cup  holds  Vz  pint  and  weighs 

12  ounces. 
Vinegar:— 1  cup  holds  V%  pint  and  weighs 

8  ounces. 
v  Water:— 1  cup  holds  Vz  pint  and  weighs  8 

ounces. 


MEASURING  CUPS,  ETC. 

Cup:—  1  cup  holds  Mj  pint  or  8  fluid  ounces, 
or  16 tablespoons  or  32  teaspoons;  1  cup 
holds  7  ounces  of  lard  or  butter,  4  oz.  of 
flour  (when  heaped  6  oz.  flour  or  4  of 
coffee) ;  2  ounces  of  tea  and  8  ounces  of 
raisins. 

Basting-spoon:— 4  basting-spoons  make  1 
cupful ;  1  basting-spoon  equals  4  table- 
spoons or  8  teaspoons. 

Tablespoon:— 1  tablespoon  holds  Vz  ounce 
of  water;  8  tablespoons  liquid  make  1 
gill;  16  tablespoons  liquid  make  1  cup- 
ful; 1  tablespoon,  heaped,  holds  Vt 
ounce  of  barley,  corn-meal,  corn- 
starch, ground  spice,  flour,  sago,  sugar; 
and  Vz  ounce  of  ground  coffee,  and  ^ 
ounce  of  tea. 

Teaspoon:— 1  teaspoon  holds  Vz  table- 
spoon; 16  teaspoons  liquid  make  1  gill, 
and  32  teaspoons  liquid  make  1  cup.  1 
teaspoon  holds  H  ounce  of  ground  cof- 
fee, and  \%  ounce  of  tea,  and  Vz  of  the 
other  articles  given  above  for  a  table- 
spoon. 

A  tumbler,  common  size,  holds  V4  pint,  or 
8  fluid  ounces. 

A  wine  glass,  common  size,  holds  Vz  gill, 
or  2  fluid  ounces. 


AVOIRDUPOIS  WEIGHT. 

16  drams  (dr.)  make  1  ounce  (oz). 

16  ounces  make  1  pound  (ft). 

25  pounds  make  1  quarter  (qr.). 

4  quarters  make  1  hundred  weight  (cwt.). 

20  hundred  weight  make  1  ton  (T.). 


LIQUID  OR  WINE  MEASURE. 

4  gills  make  1  pint  (pt.). 
2  pints  make  1  quart  (qt.). 
4  quarts  make  1  gallon  (gal.). 
3154  gallons  make  1  barrel  (bbl.). 
63  gallons  make  1  hogshead  (hhd.). 
2  hogsheads  make  1  pipe  or  butt  (pi.). 


DRY  MEASURE. 

2  pints  make  1  quart. 
8  quarts  make  1  peck. 
4  pecks  make  1  bushel. 
8  bushels  make  1  quarter. 


W 


CLOTH  MEASURE. 

2U  inches  make  1  nail. 

4  nails  make  M  yard. 

4  quarters  make  1  yard. 

3  quarters  make  1  Ell  Flemish. 

5 quarters  make  1  Ell  English. 

Cloth  Measure  is  little  used  at  present.  In 
measuring  goods  sold  by  the  yard,  it  is  di- 
vided into  halves,  quarters,  eighths  and  six- 
teenths. 


LINEAR  .MEASURE. 

12  inches=l  foot. 
3feet=l  yard. 
6V2yards=l  rod  or  pole. 
40rods=l  furlong. 
8furlongs=l  mile. 
3miles=l  league. 

3  barley-corns=l  inch. 

4  inches=l  hand. 
9  inches=l span. 

21.888  inches=l  sacred  cubit. 

18  inches=l  English  cubit. 

6  feet=l  fathom. 

120  fathoms=l  cable's  length. 

6086.7  feet=l  knot. 

3  feet=l  pace. 

1.152M  common  miles=l  geographical  mile. 

3  geographical  miles=l  league. 

60  geographical  miles=l  degree. 

360  degrees^ the  circumference  of  the  globe. 

THE  METRIC  SYSTEM. 

Measures  of  Weight. 

1  milligramme=0.015432  grains. 
1  gramme=15.432  grains. 
1  decagramme=0.022046  pounds. 
1  hectogramme=0.22046  pounds. 
1  kilogramme=2.2046  pounds. 
1  myriagramme=22.046  pounds.  , 

Measures  of  Capacity. 

1  millilitre=0.0610  cubic  in.=338  fluid  oz. 

1  litre= 1.0567  quarts. 

1  dekalitre=2.6417  gallons. 

1  kektolitre=26.4175  gallons=2.84  bushels. 

1  kilolitre=264.175  gallons=28.37  bushels. 

Measures  of  Length. 

1  millimetre=0.03937  inch. 
1  centimetre=0.3937  inch. 
1  metre=39.37  inch. 
1  decametre=32.809  feet. 
1  hectometre=328.09  feet. 
1  kilometre=.6213  mile. 
1  myriametre=6.2138  mile. 


MEDICINAL  TERMS  AND    APOTHECA- 
RIES WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

Measures. 
60  minims  (M)  or  drops=l  fluidrachm  (/  3.) 
8  fluidrachms=l  fluid  ounce  (/  ?.) 
16  fluid  ounces=l  pint  (O.) 
8  pints=l  gallon  (Cong.) 

Weights. 
20  grains  (gr.  xx)=l  scruple  (3  or  sc.) 
3  scruples  (3  ii.i)=l  drachm  (3  or  dr.) 
8  drachms  (3  viij)=l  ounce  (1  or  oz.) 
12  ounces  (1  xij)=l  pound  (tt>.) 

Physicians  in  writing  prescriptions  use 
the  Roman  numerals  instead  of  figures,  but 
the  small  letters  only,  which  they  precede 
by  the  symbols.  They  write  j  for  i  when 
it  terminates  a  number.  Thus?vij  means 
7  ounces,  3xiv  means  14  scruples,  etc.  Q 
is  an  abreviation  for  recipe,  or  take;  P  for 
particula,  or  little  part;  q.  s.  quantity  suf- 
ficient; P.  asq.  for  equal  parts;  q.  p.  as 


much  as  you  please;  gr.  for  grain;  ss.  for 
semi;&,  aa.  for  equal  quantities,  ij.  for  2; 
gttisadrop;  Cong,  is  an  abreviation  of 
congius,  the  latin  for  gallon;  O.  for  octarius, 
the  latin  for  one-eighth.  The  minim  is 
equal  to  a  drop  of  water;  a  pint  of  water 
weighs  a  pound. 


MISCELLANEOUS    TABLES   COMPRIS- 
ING VARIOUS  THINGS  WORTH 
KNOWING. 

Counting.— 12  units  make  a  dozen;  12 
dozen  make  a  gross;  12  gross  make  a  great 
gross.    20  units  make  a  score. 

Paper.— 24  sheets  make  1  quire;  20 quires 
make  1  ream;  2  reams  make  1  bundle. 

Books.— A  sheet  of  paper  folded  in  two 
leaves  makes  a  folio  or  4  pages;  in  four 
leaves  a  quarto,  4 to,  or  8  pages;  in  8  leaves 
an  octavo,  8  vo,  or  16  pages;  in  12  leaves,  a 
duodecimo,  12  mo,  or  24  pages;  in  16  leaves, 
a  16  mo,  or  32  pages;  in  18  leaves  an  18  mo, 
or  36  pages.  These  terms  are  applied 
without  regard  to  the  size  of  the  sheet 
folded,  which  may  vary  widely. 

Apples,  dried,  a  bushel=22  to  28  lbs* 

Barley,  a  bushel =48  fi>s  (in  most  states). 

Beans,  a  bushel=60  lbs. 

Beef,  a  barrel=200  fl>s. 

Buckwheat,  a  bushel=40to52  fi> 

Butter,  a  firkin=56  lbs. 

Butter,  a  tub =84  lbs. 

Bran,  a  bushel=20  lbs. 

Clover  seed,  a  bushel=60  lbs. 

Corn,  a  bushel,  shelled=56  B>s  (in  most 
states). 

Corn,  a  bushel,  on  the  cob=70  or  68  B>s.* 

Flaxseed,  a  bushel =55  or  56  lbs.* 

Fish,  a  quintal=100  B>s. 

Fish,  a  barrel =200  lbs. 

Feathers,  a  bale=about  1  cwt, 

Flour,  a  barrel=196  lbs. 

Honey,  a  gal  Ion =12  lbs. 

Meat,  a  stone=80  lbs. 

Molasses,  a  hogshead=130  to  150  gallons.* 

Oats,  a  bushel=32  lbs  (in  most  states). 

Onions,  a  bushel=48  to  57  lbs.* 

Peaches,  dried,  a  bushel=28  to  33  lbs.* 

Potatoes,  a  bushel=60  lbs. 

Pork,  a  barrel=200  lbs. 

Rice,  a  barrel  =600  lbs. 

Raisins,  a  barrel=112  lbs. 

Rye,  a  bushel=56  lbs. 

Salt,  a  barrel=280  lbs. 

Salt,  a  bushel=70  lbs. 

Soap,  a  barrel =256  lbs. 

Soap,  a  box =75  lbs. 

Soap,  a  firkin=64  lbs. 

Sugar,  a  barrel  =200  to  250  lbs* 

Tea,  a chest=60 to 84 lbs* 

Timothy  seed,  a  bushel=45  lbs.  (in  most 
states). 

Tobacco,  a  hhd.=168lbs. 

Wool,  a  tod =28  lbs. 


(8) 


*  Varying  in  different  states. 

DEGREES  OF  HEAT  FROM  FUEL. 

Coal  produce  1000°  F. ;  wood  (hard)  800°  to 
900°;  charcoal  (ordinary)  70C°;  charcoal 
(willow)  600°. 


INTRODUCTION. 


"We  grow  like  what  we  eat.    Bad  food  depresses.    Good  food  exhalts  us  like  an  inspira- 
tion." 

Primitive  man  did  not  cook.  Although  the  origin  of  man  is  veiled  in  obscur- 
ity, and  the  habits  and  customs  of  the  earliest  races  are  somewhat  conjectural,  all 
the  indications  are  that  for  an  indefinite  period  primitive  man  must  have  lived 
largely  on  raw  nuts  and  fruits.  Then,  in  his  slow,  upward  advance,  his  earliest 
weapons  were  clubs  or  rude  stone  implements,  with  which  he  killed  animals, 
whose  flesh  he  tore  apart  and  devoured  raw.  When  by  some  happy  accident 
primitive  man  discovered  fire,  it  marked  the  dawn  of  a  new  era  for  him.  It  was 
undoubtedly  one  of  the  most  important  and  beneficial  discoveries  ever  made  by 
the  race.  Many  savage  races  have  been  discovered  even  in  recent  times  who 
were  unacquainted  with  fire,  and  who,  on  seeing  it,  regarded  it  with  a  super- 
stitious feeling  of  awe,  and  attributed  to  it  some  form  of  life.  Fire  having  been 
discovered,  men  must  have  tried  to  dry  and  roast  their  food.  Probably  burying 
seeds  and  meat  in  hot  ashes  was  the  earliest  form  of  cooking.  This  would  im- 
prove its  flavor  and  make  it  more  easily  eaten,  but  it  would  befoul  the  food  more 
or  less.  Then  man  hit  on  the  plan  of  suspending  his  meat  on  spits  above  the  fire, 
and  so  grilling- arose.  It  is  not  probable  that  even  in  the  days  of  Homer  the  art 
of  cookery  was  much  advanced  beyond  this  stage,  for  nowhere  in  his  poems  does 
he  speak  of  boiled  meat,  although  in  the  "Iliad"  we  read  that  the 
great  Achilles  and  his  friend  Patroclus  regaled  the  three  Grecian  leaders  with 
bread,  wine  and  broiled  meat.  The  Jews,  however,  early  learned  the  art  of  boil- 
ing, and  they  had  kettles,  in  one  of  which  the  mess  of  pottage  for  which  Esau 
sold  his  birthright  to  Jacob,  must  have  been  boiled.  As  civilization  advanced, 
the  art  of  cookery  slowly  developed,  until,  in  the  days  of  Roman  luxury  (about  the 
time  of  the  birth  of  Christ)  it  attained  great  prominence,  and  Athenseus  has  pre- 
served the  names  of  the  authors  of  many  cook  books,  Archestratus  being  probably 
the  first,  as  he  was  certainly  the  most  famous.  Men  of  note  from  the  island  of 
Sicily  became  the  most  celebrated  cooks,  and  commanded  great  prices  for  their 
services. 

The  cereals  (named  from  Ceres,  the  goddess  of  agriculture)  were  early  known 
to  the  race.  The  Assyrians,  Egyptians  and  Greeks  used  to  make  bread  in  which 
oil,  with  aniseseed  and  other  spices,  was  an  element,  but  it  was  unleavened.  Tra- 
dition says  that  somewhere  about  the  30th  Olympiad  (about  724  B.  C.)  the  slave 
of  an  archon  at  Athens  left  some  wheaten  dough  in  an  earthen  pot  and  forgot  it. 
Some  days  afterwards  he  found  it,  but  it  was  turning  sour  and  he  was  about  to 
throw  it  away,  when  his  master  appeared,  and  so  he  mixed  it  with  some  fresh 
dough  on  which  he  was  working.  The  bread  produced  by  this  dough  in  which 
alcholic  fermentation  had  begun  was  found  delicious  by  the  archon  and  his 
friends,  and- when  the  slave  was  summoned,  he  told  his  secret.  Thus  leavened 
bread  was  discovered  by  accident.  The  news  spread  rapidly,  a  great  demand  for 
the  new  bread  sprang  up,  and  certain  persons  set  up  as  bread  makers  (the  first 
bakers)  and  "Athenian  bread"  soon  became  famous  throughout  Greece.  Down 
as  late  as  the  Roman  Emperors,  however,  no  bolted  flour  was  known,  and  to  this 
day,  in  many  parts  of  Germany  the  entire  meal  is  used. 

(9) 


10  INTRODUCTION. 

The  common  people  among  the  Greeks  ate  a  kind  of  barley-gruel,  which  was 
a  national  dish  and  was  made  as  follows: — -"Dry  near  the  tire  in  the  oven  20  lbs. 
of  barley  flour;  then  parch  it;  add  3  lbs.  linseed  meal,  %  lb.  coriander  seed,  2  oz. 
salt,  and  the  quantity  of  water  necessary."  To  this  a  little  millet  was  sometimes 
added  to  give  the  paste  greater-  cohesion  and  delicacy.  Oatmeal  was  used  by 
the  Greeks  and  Romans,  and  so  was  rice,  which  they  considered  beneficial  to  the 
chest.  Wheat  was  used,  and  a  favorite  Carthagenian  pudding  (which  was  also  a 
favorite  with  the  Romans)  was  made  with  wheat  flour  as  follows: — "Sift  the  flour 
and,  with  some  water,  put  it  into  a  wooden  vessel,  and  for  10  days  renew  the 
water  twice  each  day;  then  press  out  the  water  and  put  the  paste  in  another 
vessel;  reduce  it  to  the  consistency  of  thick  lees,  pass  it  twice  through  a  piece  of 
linen;  then  dry  it  in  the  sun  and  boil  it  in  milk;  season  according  to  taste." 

The  ancient  Egyptians  cultivated  very  much  the  same  agricultural  products 
as  at  the  present  day,  and  the  same  is  true  of  the  Greeks,  and  we  find  the  vine, 
the  fig,  the  olive,  the  apple  and  other  fruits,  mentioned  by  the  ancient  writers. 
In  the  vegetables  used  for  food  there  has  been  much  more  change  in  modern 
times  than  with  the  cereals.  Every  one  knows  that  the  potato  was  introduced 
after  the  discovery  of  America,  but  many  other  vegetables  now  in  common  use 
were  unknown  to  our  forefathers  even  a  few  generations  back,  and  the  fruits  then 
in  common  use  were  very  different  from  those  now  in  popular  favor.  Prof.  Tho- 
rold  Rogers,  writing  of  the  condition  of  things  in  England  four  or  five  centuries 
ago,  says:  "Scurvy  in  its  most  violent  forms,  and  leprosy,  modified  perhaps  by  the 
climate,  were  common  disorders,  for,  as  has  often  been  said,  the  people  lived  on 
salt  meat  half  the  year,  and  not  only  were  they  without  the  potato  but  they  do 
not  appear  to  have  had  other  roots  now  in  common  use,  as  carrots  and  parsnips. 

Onions  and  cabbage  appear  to  have  been  the  only  esculent  vegetables Spices, 

the  cheapest  of  which  was  pepper,  were  quite  out  of  their  reach.  Sugar  was  a 
very  costly  luxury,  and  our  forefathers  do  not  appear,  judging  from  the  scarcity 
of  the  notices,  to  have  been  very  skillful  in  their  management  of  bees."  How 
would  our  readers  like  to  get  along  without  sugar  and  spices,  and  with  no  escu- 
lent vegetables  but  the  onion  and  cabbage ! 

If  we  turn  from  the  past  to  the  cookery  of  the  present  day,  we  find  that  each 
nation  has  its  own  peculiarities.  Among  some  of  the  European  nations  the  art  of 
cookery  has  been  carried  to  a  high  degree  of  perfection,  and  we  might  learn  many 
valuable  lessons  by  a  study  of  their  methods.  One  thing  in  which  they  excel  is 
in  their  use  of  soups.  Soups  are  not  a  luxury,  nor  are  they  the  last  resort  of  poverty, 
and  all  classes  in  Europe  regard  them  as  a  necessary  part  of  their  dinner.  Amer- 
icans might  use  them  more  generally  to  advantage.  We  elsewhere  discuss  the 
peculiarities  of  the  cookery  of  the  leading  nations  of  Europe. 

When  we  consider  the  onerous  duties  of  the  housekeeper,  who  in  the  majority 
of  cases  is  also  the  cook,  we  cannot  over-estimate  the  importance  of  her  position, 
holding  as  she  does  in  her  keeping,  in  a  great  degree,  the  welfare,  health  and 
happiness  of  her  household.  She  has  the  general  care  of  the  home;  she  must 
provide  apparel  for  her  family,  suited  to  the  varying  seasons,  and  must  prepare 
or  supervise  the  preparation  of  3  meals  per  day  for  365  days  in  the  year.  This 
last  division  involves  on  the  part  of  the  housekeeper  an  appalling  amount  of 
mental  as  well  as  physical  labor,  and  it  is  hoped  the  recipes  for  cooking  which 
we  give,  will  greatly  assist  her  in  this  department. 

Count  Rumford,  "clear  of  thought,  and  straight  of  vision,"  remarked  that 
"the  number  of  inhabitants  who  may  be  supported  in  any  country  upon  its 
internal  products,  depends  as  much  upon  the  state  of  the  art  of  cookery,  as  upon 
that  of  agriculture."  If  cookery  be  of  so  much  importance,  it  ought  certainly  to 
be  studied  with  the  greatest  care.  If  any  work  requires  "eternal  vigilance,"  it  is 
cookery.  There  are  so  many  ways  where  a  little  variation  in  quality  of  ingre- 
dients; a  little  time  lost  just  when  some  article  of  food  needs  attention  or  the. 
fuel  fails  to  burn  as  expected,  that  one  must,  for  the  time  being,  give  it  undivided 
thought.  Although  some  processes  require  more  attention  than  others,  none  can 
be  properly  performed  if  left  long  to  itself.  A  good  cook  is  pretty  frequent  in 
her  visits  to  the  fire  to  see  how  the  operation  is  going  on,  and  to  seize  the  proper 
moment  in  giving  her  assistance. 

The  model  cook  should  be  neat  in  her  apparel;  dress  her  hair  in  a  tidy  man- 
ner and  always  in  her  own  room;  the  toilet  should  never  be  made  in  the  kitchen, 


INTRODUCTION.  11 

neither  wholly,  nor  in  part.  Her  hands  and  nails  should  be  scrupulously  clean; 
if  there  is  no  time  to  attend  particularly  to  the  nails,  they  should  be  cut  so  short 
that  no  special  care  is  needed  for  them,  aside,  from  the  use.  of  a  nail-brush.  Long, 
black  finger-nails  on  the  hands  of  a  cook,  are  not  appetizing  to  those  who  partake 
of  her  food. 

A  good  cook  is  never  wasteful,  for  the  reason  that  she  knows  how  to  turn 
everything  to  account.  A  few  scraps  of  cold  meat  may  be  minced,  nicely  flavored, 
and  with  an  egg  and  a  few  bread  crumbs,  dainty  rissoles,  or  croquettes,  can  be 
made.  Cold  vegetables,  scraps  of  meat  and  cold  fish,  can  be  made  into  salads, 
or  hashes,  that  are  liked  by  most  people. 

While  cooking,  a  clean  towel,  and  a  dish-pan  of  hot  water  constantly  at  hand 
in  the  sink  is  indispensable.  It  is  convenient  for  washing  any  utensil  that  may 
be  needed  while  at  work,  and  in  it  the  hands  may  be  cleansed  from  time  to  time 
if  they  become  smeared;  there  are  also  many  spare  minutes  while  baking,  when 
dishes  no  longer  needed  may  be  washed  and  put  away,  thus  making  lighter  the 
task  of  cleaning  up  when  all  is  done. 

Punctuality  in  serving  meals  cannot  be  too  much  insisted  on.  As  soon  as 
possible  after  one  meal,  preparation  and  forethought  for  the  next  will  greatly 
facilitate  this  desirable  condition.  After  the  house  is  put  in  order  in  the  morning, 
vegetables  should  be  made  ready,  the  soup  put  over  the  fire  if  it  is  a  part  of  the 
meal,  and  the  desert  arranged.  If  a  late  dinner  is  served,  the  luncheon  should  be 
punctually  laid  at  noon,  and  the  preparations  for  dinner  can  be  leisurely  made  in 
the  afternoon.  Cooking  for  a  noonday  meal  should  commence  early  in  the  day, 
for  hurry  and  good  cooking  can  never  go  together. 

Intoxicating  Liquors. — In  all  recipes  contained  in  the  department  of  cookery, 
which  advised  the  use  of  intoxicating  liquors,  we  have  substituted  fruit  juices— 
often  using  orange  or  lemon  juice.  Nothing  can  excel  the  unfermented  juices 
of  fruits  as  a  flavoring,  or  for  giving  a  desirable  piquancy  to  various  dishes. 
They  make  an  almost  perfect  substitute  for  liquors,  and  for  obvious  reasons  are 
much  safer  for  family  use.  Fruit  juice  can  be  easily  substituted  for  liquor  in 
any  recipe  by  those  who  desire  to  do  so.  In  fruit  cake,  %  CUP  or  10  tablespoons 
of  molasses  is  equal  to  1  wine  glass  of  brandy  or  other  liquor.  Those  so  disposed 
can  substitute  molasses  for  liquor  in  this  way  in  any  such  recipe  found  in  books, 
magazines  or  newspapers;  a  cake  thus  made  will  be  quite  as  good  as  though  the 
liquor  was  used.  As  the  alcohol  evaporates  in  baking,  however,  liquors  are  not 
so  objectionable  in  cakes  as  in  sauces. 

SUGGESTIONS  ABOUT  FOOD  AND  FEEDING. 

The  rapid  increase  of  human  knowledge  within  the  last  few  decades,  which 
we  all  view  with  more  or  less  wonder,  is  affecting  every  department  of  human 
activity.  The  art  of  housekeeping  is  feeling  its  influence,  and  it  is  becoming 
clear  that  the  time  has  come  for  a  science  of  housekeeping.  Many  thoughtful 
minds  are  studying  the  subject,  but  no  one  can  work  at  it  long  without  seeing 
that  household  science  lays  all  other  sciences  under  tribute.  Surely  the  running 
of  a  household  is  a  no  less  important  task  than  running  a  steam  engine  or 
steamboat,  and  it  requires  as  much  technical  knowledge  and  skill.  In  an 
address  made  a  few  years  ago  by  the  President  of  the  American  Institute  of 
Mining  Engineers  before  that  body,  he  said:  "If  technical  instruction  and 
skill  in  our  workmen  be  essential  to  the  economical  development  of  industry, 
and  the  welfare  of  those  engaged  in  it,  the  technical  education  of  their  wives 

is  not  one  whit    less  important Scientific  housekeeping  is  neither 

beneath  the  attention  of  the  refined,  nor  beyond  the  reach  of  the  uncultured. 
It  is  the  duty  of  the  rich;  it  is  the  salvation  of  the  poor."  Evidently  this  is 
perfectly  true. 

_  Now  no  one  can  thoroughly  master  the  art  of  cookery  without  knowing  some- 
thing of  the  chemical  composition  of  the  various  foods,  and  the  uses  they  serve  in 
the  system.  This  knowledge  is  especially  important  to  the  poor,  for  they  must 
necessarily  practice  the  most  rigid  economy,  and  they  should  know  what  foods 
are  best  adapted  to  supply  the  real  needs  of  their  families,  and  how  they  can  ob- 
tain the  most  and  best  nourishment  for  the  least  money;  and  yet  they  are  the 
ones  who  know  the  least  about  the  subject,  as  a  rule.    Carefully  kept  statistics 


12  INTRODUCTION. 

show  that  in  families  consisting  of  a  man  and  his  wife  and  3  or  4  children,  where 
the  income  is  small  or  moderate,  nearly  60$  of  the  whole  amount  is  spent  for  food. 
Of  course  in  families  enjoying  a  larger  income  the  proportion  is  less,  but  this 
shows  the  importance  of  the  question,  especially  when  it  is  remembered  that 
those  having  moderate  incomes  constitute  the  great  majority  of  the  people.  Let 
us  glance,  therefore,  (briefly  necessarily  for  want  of  space)  at  some  of  the  prin- 
ciples which  underlie  the  subject  of  food  and  feeding,  leaving  other  branches  of 
housekeeping  for  later  treatment.  And  first  let  us  take  the  assimilation  and  di- 
gestion of  food. 

THE  PROCESSES  OF  DIGESTION. 

An  old  and  very  good  illustration  likens  the  human  body  to  a  steam  engine, 
and  the  food  and  water  it  uses,  to  the  fuel  and  water  fed  to  the  engine.  This  anal- 
ogy, carried  out,  will  show  why  any  person  who  works  hard,  either  with  the  mind 
or  body,  requires  more  food  than  one  who  does  but  little,  a  fact  which  is  well 
known.  On  the  other  hand,  when  idle  persons  eat  large  quantities  of  nitrogen- 
ous food,  they  become  victims  of  inflammatory  disease,  or  their  health  otherwise 
suffers,  according,  probably,  to  whether  they  assimilate  it  or  not.  And  what  are 
the  processes  by  which  these  wonderful  bodies  of  ours  assimilate  the  food  which 
is  given  to  them?  Let  us  see.  From  the  time  the  food  enters  the  mouth,  it  may 
be  considered  as  passing  along  one  continuous  tube  or  canal  (which  is  some  35 
feet  long  and  of  varying  size),  and  as  it  passes  along,  part  is  taken  up  and  assim- 
ilated, and  part  is  finally  rejected  as  useless  to  the  body.  This  journey  through 
the  body  may  be  divided  into  5  stages,  in  which  the  food  is  submitted  to  the  al- 
ternate action  of  certain  alkaline  and  acid  fluids  which  cut  it  up  and  fit  it  for 
assimilation  by  the  system. 

First.— When  food  is  taken  into  the  mouth,  it  is  masticated,  that  is,  it  is 
crushed  and  torn  by  the  teeth  so  that  it  will  readily  fall  to  pieces  and  can  then 
be  easily  acted  on  by  the  digestive  juices.  While  in  the  mouth  the.  food  is 
thoroughly  mixed  (or  should  be)  with  a  fluid  secreted  by  the  salivary  glands,  and 
known  as  saliva.  This  saliva  is  a  glairy,  adhesive  and  alkaline  fluid,  which  pro- 
duces the  first  chemical  change  in  the  food;  the  saliva  possesses  the  power  of 
acting  very  rapidly  on  starch,  and  it  turns  part  of  it  into  sugar,  which  is  the  first 
step  towards  its  digestion. 

Second. — The  food  now  passes  into  the  stomach,  where  it  is  subjected  to  the 
action  of  the  gastric  juice.  This  is  secreted  in  considerable  quantities  by  the 
inner  lining  of  the  stomach,  and  it  is  a  clear,  transparent  and  acid  fluid,  contain- 
ing a  peculiar  and  important  principle,  called  pepsin.  This  acid  gastric  juice 
neutralizes  the  alkaline  saliva  and  checks  its  further  action*  (although  as  it 
penetrates  the  mass  of  food  somewhat  slowly,  the  action  of  the  saliva  is  not 
checked  immediately  on  entering  the  stomach)  and  it  is  strong  enough  to  dis- 
solve the  fibrin  and  albumen  of  the  food.  Acted  upon  by  this  fluid,  and  by  cer- 
tain wave-like  muscular  movements  of  the  stomach,  the  food  in  time  becomes 
thoroughly  dissolved,  with  the  exception  of  the  fatty  and  oily  matter,  which  is  not 
thus  far  affected.  The  stomach  acts  solely  on  albumenoids,  and  not  upon  starch, 
sugar  or  fat.  Small  quantities  of  mild  acids,  like  vinegar  and  lemon  juice,  add  to 
the  solvent  power  of  the  gastric  juice  and  are  therefore  beneficial  with  meats  and 
vegetables  not  easily  digested.  It  will  be  evident,  that  to  be  easily  acted  on 
by  the  juices  of  the  stomach,  the  food  should  readily  separate  into  minute  part- 
icles, and  it  should  not  be  enveloped  in  fat,  as  is  the  case  with  pastry.  Unlike 
the  lobster  tribe,  the  human  stomach  does  not  contain  teeth  and  so  cannot  grind 
and  tear  the  food  in  pieces,  hence,  if  it  is  not  thoroughly  masticated  by  the  teeth, 
before  reaching  the  stomach,  digestion  will  be  slow  and  difficult,  and  a  fit  of  in- 
digestion will  be  very  apt  to  follow.  Prom  the  stomach  the  food  passes  into  the 
small  intestine,  or  duodenum,  and  it  is  then  called  chyme. 

Third. — While  the  food  is  in  the  duodenum,  or  small  intestine,  it  is  subjected 
to  the  action  of  the  bile.    This  is  a  greenish  colored,  viscid  fluid,  of  a  bitter  taste 


*One  of  the  fundamental  principles  of  chemistry  which  every  one  should  iknow,  is  that 
an  alkali  will  neutralize  an  acid,  or  an  acid  an  alkali.  The  two  being  antagonistic,  (if  we 
can  use  that  term)  one  will  neutralize  the  other  at  any  time. 


INTRODUCTION.  13 

and  an  unpleasant  smell.  It  is  slightly  alkaline,  but  consists  principally  of  two  pe- 
culiar resinous  acids  (cholic  and  choleic)  in  combination  with  soda.  The  precise  ac- 
tion of  the  bile  on  the  chyme  or  food  is  not  very  clear,  but  it  neutralizes  the  acids  of 
the  gastric  juice  and  makes  it  alkaline,  so  that  the  pancreatic  juices  can  act  on  it, 
and  it  probably  assists  in  converting  it  into  chyle,  as  it  is  then  called,  and  in 
rendering  it  capable  of  absorption  bj<  the  lacteals.  This  chyle  is  a  milky  fluid, 
which  supplies  the  matter  from  which  the  blood  is  formed. 

Fourth. — While  in  the  duodenum,  and  being  acted  on  by  the  bile,  the  chyme 
is  also  subjected  to  the  action  of  the  pancreatic  juice,  which  is  secreted  by  the 
pancreas.  This  pancreas  is  sometimes  sold  as  sweetbreads,  and  many  are 
familiar  with  it  under  that  name.  This  pancreatic  juice  is  alkaline,  much  like 
saliva,  from  5  to  7  oz.  of  it  being  secreted  daily,  but  it  has  the  power  of  acting  on 
the  fats  and  oils  and  converting  them  into  an  emulsion,  and  thereby  fits  them 
for  absorption  into  the  system.  Oil  and  water  will  not  mix,  but  when  cut  into 
fine  particles  by  an  alkali,  like  soda  or  potash,  oil  will  mingle  with  water.  Now 
this  is  what  the  alkaline  pancreatic  juice  does  for  the  fats  and  oils — it  cuts  them 
into  fine  particles  so  that  they  mingle  readily  with  the  watery  fluid,  and  are 
afterwards  readily  absorbed  by  the  villi,  but  it  produces  little  other  change  in 
them.  Also  the  process  of  converting  starch  into  sugar  goes  on  here  once  more. 
It  is  in  the  duodenum  that  the  fats  and  oils  are  really  digested.  The  reader  will 
notice  that  the  alkaline  juices,  like  the  saliva,  etc.,  act  mainly  on  the  fats  and 
carbohydrates  of  the  food,  while  the  acid  juices  of  the  stomach  act  mainly  on  the 
albumenoids.  (Those  who  wonder  what  "albumenoids"  and  "carbohydrates"  are, 
will  find  an  explanation  later  on.) 

Fifth. — The  food  now  passes  along  the  intestinal  canal,  pushed  along  by  many 
muscles,  and  it  is  acted  on  by  the  intestinal  fluids,  which  are  the  last  in  the  pro- 
cess, and  which  appear  to  be  somewhat  akin  to  saliva. 

Next,  this  fluid  {chyle)  as  it  passes  along,  is  absorbed  into  the  lacteal  system  by 
small  projecting  filaments  {villi)  and  it  is  then  conveyed  to  the  mesenteric 
glands,  as  they  are  called,  and  these  glands  change  a  part  of  it  to  corpuscles,  and 
it  is  carried  along  in  small  tubes  to  an  elongated  pouch  with  a  formidable  looking 
name  (the  receptaculum  chyli)  which  lies  in  front  of  the  spine.  From  this  pouch 
the  fluid  is  conveyed  up  a  tube,  called  the  thoracic  duct,  to  the  left  side  of  the 
neck,  where  a  little  valve  opens  and  it  flows  into  and  mixes  with  the  impure 
blood  returning  through  the  veins;  these  carry  it  to  the  heart,  which  pumps  it 
into  the  lungs,  where  it  is  subjected  to  the  action  of  the  air,  the  oxygen  in  which 
consumes  its  impurities.  It  is  now  fresh,  pure  blood,  and  the  arteries  distribute 
it  through  the  body  to  perform  its  work  in  the  system.  Every  3  to  5  minutes  the 
blood  courses  over  the  system,  according  to  the  state  of  the  health  or  the  amount 
of  exercise  taken.  As  the  blood  thus  comes  to  it,  every  part  of  the  body  has  the 
singular  power  of  taking  to  itself  the  elements  it  needs  for  growth  or  repair. 
The  liver  takes  the  elements  needed  for  bile;  the  glands  of  the  mouth  those 
needed  for  saliva;  the  glands  of  the  eye  those  needed  for  tears;  the  cartilages 
take  their  needed  sulphur,  soda,  etc.;  the  bones  take  their  phosphate  of  lime, 
calcium,  magnesia,  etc.;  the  muscles  take  their  albumen,  fibrin,  phosphates, 
etc.;  the  nerves  and  brain,  most  wonderful  of  all,  get  their  phosphorus,  water, 
fats  and  albumen,  forming  that  wonderful  brain  substance  by  which  we  feel, 
smell,  taste,  hear,  see  and  think,  and  become  conscious  of  life,  and  the  stupendous 
universe  about  us,  with  its  tremendous  and  absorbing  problems. 

From  the  foregoing  it  will  be  clear  that  the  blood  is  what  the  food  makes  it, 
and  as  the  supply  of  food  is  increased  or  decreased,  or  its  quality  altered,  so  the 
blood  is  affected,  and  the  health  maintained  or  impaired;  hence  the  importance  of 
adopting  such  rules  of  diet  and  regimen  as  will  ensure  a  due  supply  of  healthy 
blood  to  the  system.  So  much  for  the  process  by  which  the  body  assimilates  its 
food.  If  this  process  is  once  clearly  understood,  it  will  make  plain  many  facts  in 
regard  to  foods  and  their  uses.  Now  let  us  inquire  a  little  into  the  composi- 
tion of  the  body,  which  grinds  up,  dissolves  and  assimilates  its  food  in  this 
remarkable  way. 

COMPOSITION  OF  THE  BODY. 

The  principal  chemical  substances  found  in  the  body  are  oxygen,  hydrogen, 
carbon,   nitrogen,    sulphur,   phosphorus  and   chlorine,    and  the    metals,  iron, 


U  INTRODUCTION. 

sodium,  potassium,  lime  and  magnesia.  The  body  derives  its  nourishment  from 
compounds  of  the  elements,  not  directly  from  the  elements  themselves;  thus, 
although  nitrogen  composes  f  of  the  air,  it  only  nourishes  the  body  when  it 
comes  as  a  compound  resulting  from  some  form  of  life.  The  4  most  important 
elements  are  oxygen,  hydrogen,  carbon  and  nitrogen.  A  human  body  weighing 
154  lbs.  is  found  to  contain,  oxygen  111  lbs.;  hydrogen  14  lbs.;  carbon  21  lbs.; 
nitrogen  3  lbs.  10  oz.  In  a  body  of  the  same  weight  we  find  that  the  compounds 
in  which  these  elements  exist,  and  their  weights  in  the  body  are: 

lbs.  oz. 

Water,  containing  oxygen  and  hydrogen           116  0 

Gelatine,  containing  the  4  elements                 '  16  0 

Albumen,            "          "  "        "                                4  3 

Fibrin,                 "           "  "        "                                 4  4 

Fat,  containing  carbon  and  hydrogen                12  0 

Of  course  these  figures  are  only  approximate.  The  various  other  elements  also 
always  appear  in  different  combinations,  as  calcium  in  the  bones  and  teeth; 
sulphur  in  the  tissues  and  secretions;  phosphorus  in  the  bones  and  brain,  and  so 
on.  These  necessary  compounds  of  the  human  body  represent  albumenoids  or 
flesh-formers,  carbohydrates  or  heat-givers,  and  salts  or  mineral  matters.  These 
elements  are  received  into  the  human  system  in  the  form  of  food,  and  become 
distributed  to  the  different  parts  of  the  body  by  the  process  of  digestion 
and  assimilation.  If  any  of  these  elements  are  wanting,  the  system  suffers  and 
they  must  be  restored  to  the  individual.  For  example,  rickets  in  children  is 
caused  by  the  bones  containing  too  little  lime,  and,  hence,  the  best  remedy  in  its 
early  stage  is  plenty  of  lime  water,  or  some  other  substance  containing  lime. 
Now  we  find  that  the  ultimate  elements  of  the  food  we  take  are  precisely  simi- 
lar to  the  ultimate  elements  of  the  human  body,  therefore  let  us  next  examine 
the  composition  of  the  different  foods  so  that  we  may  know  how  to  supply  the  va- 
rious elements  needed  by  the  system. 

THE  COMPOSITION  OF  FOODS. 

Air,  food  and  water  are  the  essential  chemical  compounds,  without  which  no 
living  creature  can  exist.  Nature  has  lavishly  enveloped  us  with  the  first  of 
these  elements,  and  water,  the  next  great  want,  is  given  without  stint  to  those 
who  choose  to  dwell  where  it  is  abundant;  but  to  obtain  food  has  given  man  the 
most  concern,  and  civilized  man  has  encompassed  the  globe  to  minister  to  his 
needs  in  this  line.  According  to  government  rations  for  soldiers,  about  2% 
pounds  of  dry  food  daily  is  required  for  each  man,  3^  part  being  meat. 

Liebig  divides  food  into  2  classes: — First,  the  nitrogenous  elements  of  nutri- 
tion, i.  e.,  the  flesh-formers.  In  this  class  are  placed  albumen,  vegetable  and  meat 
fibres,  etc.  In  the  second  class  are  the  non-nitrogenous  elements,  or  heat  pro- 
ducing foods,  as  fat,  starch  and  sugar.  A  mixed  diet  has  been  found  to  be  the 
most  conducive  to  health,  and  the  best  drink  is  water.  This  fluid  forms  over  % 
of  the  weight  of  the  body.  The  function  of  food  may  therefore  be  described  as 
twofold:  First,  to  produce  and  maintain  the  structures  necessary  to  all  life;  and 
second,  to  generate  heat. 

A  distinguished  physiologist  has  said,  "the  whole  animal  body  is  modified 
protoplasm;"  and  this  protoplasm  (the  original  cells  of  nutrition)  combined  with 
air  and  water,  is  found  in  the  food  we  take  into  the  system.  The  food  necessary 
for  the  perfect  development  of  the  various  tissues  of  the  body  — bone,  cartilage, 
muscle,  brain,  with  its  system  of  nerves,  and  blood  — the  all-pervading  and  all- 
sustaining  mother-tissue  — must  consist  of  a  judicious  combination  of  the  3  great 
nutritive  elements,  viz.,  the  Albumenoids,  or  Proteids  as  they  are  frequently 
called,  the  Carbohydrates  and  the  Fats,  and  a  certain  amount  of  Salts  are  also 
needed.  But  some  reader  will  say,  what  is  meant  by  "albumenoids"  and  "carbo- 
hydrates" and  what  are  they?  Let  us  examine  the  various  food  elements  a  little. 
If  you  will  recall  our  previous  illustration,  where  the  human  body  was  likened 
to  a  steam  engine,  it  will  be  evident  that  2  things  will  be  needed:  First,  certain 
parts  which  do  not  burn,  like  the  boiler  and  metal  work  of  the  engine;  and 
second,  the  introduction  of  certain  substances  which  do  burn,  like  the  fuel  fed 
to  the  engine.    Now  nitrogen  possesses  the  peculiar  power,  when  combined  with 


INTRODUCTION.  15 

the  other  elements,  of  interfering  with  their  power  to  unite  with  oxygen,  that  is, 
it  prevents  their  burning,  for  what  we  term  burning  is  simply  a  rapid  combina- 
tion of  oxygen  with  other  elements  (oxydation  it  is  called);  thus,  in  burning  coal, 
for  instance,  the  oxygen  of  the  air  rapidly  unites  with  the  carbon  of  the  coal, 
and  heat  is  given  off  — that  is  what  takes  place  as  it  burns.  Now,  when  hydrogen 
and  carbon  are  united  with  nitrogen,  as  is  the  case  with  the  tissues  of  the  body, 
(nitrogen  forms  16  %  of  animal  tissues)  the  nitrogen  prevents  the  tissues  them- 
selves from  burning  readily,  although  oxydizing  (burning)  processes  take  place 
in  them.  Let  this  principal  be  clearly  understood,  for  it  forms  the  basis  of  all 
that  is  known  about  a  suitable  dietary  for  the  system;  for  a  perfect  diet  should 
consist  of  enough  nitrogenous  material  to  produce  and  maintain  the  tissues,  as 
we  have  said  before,  and  hydrocarbons  enough  to  generate  heat  for  working  the 
body.  Although  the  primary  use  of  nitrogenous  food  is  to  produce  and  maintain 
the  tissues,  secondarily  it,  also  facilitates  the  absorption  of  the  carbohydrates; 
and  although  the  carbohydrates  produce  force,  they  also,  in  some  measure,  con- 
tribute to  the  formation  of  tissue.  The  first  of  the  great  food  elements  of  which 
we  spoke  were  the  albumenoids,  so  let  us  see  what  they  are. 

Albumenoids  (they  are  often  also  called  Proteids)  is  a  name  applied  to  all  the 
foods  which  serve  the  same  purpose  as  albumen.  Albumen  (from  albus,  meaning 
white)  is  a  complex  substance,  chemically  considered.  It  contains  hydrogen, 
carbon,  some  oxygen,  a  little  sulphur,  and  its  essential  characteristic  of  nitrogen. 
The  albumenoids,  therefore,  all  contain  nitrogen,  while  neither  fats,  starches  nor 
sugars  do,  and  for  this  reason  they  are  often  called  nitrogenous,  and  sometimes 
they  are  spoken  of  as  the  flesh-formers.  As  we  explained  in  describing  the  pro- 
cess of  digestion,  the  albumenoids  are  principally  digested  in  the  stomach,  and 
after  passing  into  the  blood,  they  are  conveyed  to  the  tissues  which  they  nourish, 
(albumen  being  changed  to  fibrin,  and  fibrin  to  flesh)  and  we  have  just  explained 
the  importance  of  the  fact  that  they  do  not  readily  oxydize.  The  surplus  and 
waste  albumenoids  are  oxydized  (burned)  in  the  liver,  and  there  they  give  the 
acids  of  the  bile,  and  the  solids  of  the  urine,  and  their  imperfect  oxydation  pro- 
duces biliousness.  And  now  let  us  see  about  the  foods  from  which  we  derive  the 
albumenoids.  The  white  of  an  egg  is  almost  pure  albumen,  and  is  the  most 
familiar  instance  of  it;  but  nothing  can  live  and  grow  without  nitrogen,  and  so 
our  supplies  of  albumenoids  come  as  lean  meat,  fish,  gluten  in  flour,  milk  curd  or 
cheese,  gelatine,  fibrin  in  oats,  in  beans,  peas  and  lentils,  and  in  eggs,  while  in  the 
yolk  of  the  egg  it  is  called  vitellin.  Albumen  is  found  in  many  foods  besides 
egg;  the  blood  of  many  animals  contains  it,  most  vegetable  juices  and  many 
seeds  and  nuts.  Fibrin  (an  albumenoid)  is  both  animal  and  vegetable,  and  is 
found  in  the  muscles  of  animals,  and  in  wheat  and  other  grains.  Casein  is  an 
albumenoid  that  is  found  in  the  curd  of  milk,  and  in  the  pulses,  i.  e.,  beans,  peas 
and  len  tils.  Vegetable  casein  is  sometimes  called  legumen,  but  was  given  that  name 
before  it  was  known  to  be  practically  the  same  as  animal  casein  of  milk.  Gela- 
tine and  some  substances  nearly  like  it,  are  known  as  gelatinoids,  and  they  can 
replace  albumen  in  part,  though  not  altogether.  Ossein  is  the  part  of  bones  to 
which  they  owe  their  strength  and  elasticity.  When  boiled  under  enough  press- 
ure to  prevent  the  escape  of  steam,  it  changes  to  gelatine,  but  in  cold  water  it  is 
insoluble. 

It  is  easy  to  see  that  the  albumenoids  are  more  costly  than  the  starches,  and 
even  than  the  fats,  and  that  therefore  these  are  the  foods  that  the  poorest 
people  suffer  from  the  want  of.  On  the  other  hand  these  are  the  foods  that  taste 
well,  and  of  these  many  well-to-do  people  eat  too  much.  They  are  sometimes 
called  flesh-formers  because  their  chief  use  is  to  provide  material  to  build  up 
the  body  (in  the  growth  from  childhood  to  maturity)  and  in  adult  life  to  replace 
material  lost  in  work.  It  does  not,  however,  follow  that  the  more  flesh-formers 
they  eat,  the  larger  the  children  will  grow,  or  that  the  more  a  person  swallows 
after  middle  life  is  passed,  the  more  he  will  economize  his  failing  strength.  To 
overload  a  child  with  food  is  a  sure  way  to  make  him  small  and  feeble,  and  after 
middle  life,  if  people  get  heavier,  it  is  because  they  accumulate  stores  of  fat, 
which  is  certainly  no  advantage.  Although  the  system  can  convert  one 
albumenoid  into  another,  it  cannot  form  an  albumenoid  out  of  fat  or  starch; 
hence,  no  other  food  element  can,  for  any  length  of  time,  be  substituted  for  the 
albumenoids  without  injury  to  the  system. 


16  INTRODUCTION. 

Putrefaction  was  supposed,  until  a  few  years  ago,  to  toe  caused  by  the  action  of 
oxygen,  but  it  has  now  been  demonstrated  that  it  is  caused  by  minute  germs,  called 
bacteria.  When  the  bacteria  attack  dead  matter,  which  contains  nitrogen,  the  result  is 
putrefaction.  Fermentation  is  the  result  when  they  attack  matter  which  does  not 
contain  nitrogen.  Meat,  fruit  and  food  are  preserved  from  the  action  of  these  bacteria 
by  dryin"-  by  canning,  and  by  using  antiseptics.  Drying  protects  against  them  because 
they  cannot  live  without  water,  and  their  spores  will  not  germinate  without  moisture. 
Canning  offers  protection  by  heating  the  article  canned  until  the  bacteria  are  all  killed, 
and  then  sealing  up  the  can  so  that  no  more  can  enter;  and  antiseptics  act  by  poisoning  or 
destroying  these  low  forms  of  life. 

Carbohydrates.— In  the  human  body,  as  in  the  steam  engine,  the  fuel  consists 
of  carbon  and  hydrogen,  which  readily  unite  with  oxygen— that  is,  they  burn,  and 
so  supply  heat  and  power  to  run  the  machine  or  organism.  This  fire  burns  con- 
stantly in  the  body,  but  "  instead  of  taking  place  in  one  spot  and  so  rapidly  as  to 
be  accompanied  by  light,  as  in  the  fire  in  the  grate,  it  takes  place  in  each  drop  of 
blood,  and  so  slowly  and  continuously  as  not  to  be  noticed."  From  the  2  ele- 
ments of  carbon  and  hydrogen,  starch,  sugar  and  fat  are  built  up.  In  using  the 
fuel — food,  the  system  turns  the  starch  to  sugar,  and  the  sugar  to  fat.  It  is  in  the 
form  of  fat  that  the  surplus  carbohydrates  are  stored  up,  and  it  is  then  drawn  on 
in  times  of  need.  The  average  amount  of  fat  so  stored  up  suffices  for  about  10 
days'  fuel,  but  the  hybernating  bear  lives  through  the  winter  on  his  stored  up 
fat.  Fats  we  speak  of  later,  but  by  the  carbohydrates  are  generally  meant 
starch,  and  the  different  sugars  (sugar  of  milk  and  the  vegetable  sugars),  although 
cellulose,  pectose,  gum,  etc.,  are  closely  allied  to  the  carbohydrates,  and  would 
be  classed  with  them.  The  starches  and  sugars  come  mainly  from  the  vegetable 
world.  The  average  working  man  requires  17  to  18  ounces  of  carbohydrates  daily 
in  his  food,  a  much  larger  quantity  of  these  carbohydrates  than  of  fats  being 
needed  to  furnish  a  given  amount  of  force  to  the  body. 

Sugar  is  so  easily  dissolved  and  diffused  that  it  requires  no  preliminary  di- 
gestive process  to  prepare  it  for  assimilation;  it  passes  without  change  into  the 
circulation.  If,  however,  it  is  supplied  in  excess  of  the  needs  of  the  sys- 
tem, on  reaching  the  stomach  it  undergoes  lactic  acid  fermentation,  and  thus 
occasions  the  acidity  from  which  some  dyspeptics  suffer.  When  not  in  excess, 
the  sugar  is  carried  on  to  the  liver,  where  it  undergoes  certain  changes  which 
lead  us  to  think  that  it  contributes  to  the  production  of  fat,  rather  than  force. 
There  are  3  kinds  of  sugar — sucrose,  or  cane  sugar;  glucose,  or  grape  sugar; 
lactose,  or  milk  sugar,  and  they  are  all  composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxy- 
gen. Where  taken  as  food,  both  lactose  and  sucrose  are  converted  by  the  gastric 
juice,  etc.,  into  glucose,  in  which  form  they  are  absorbed  into  the  circulation. 
Glucose  undergoes  no  change.  Sugar  fuses  at  320°,  and  at  420°  F.  it  turns  into 
a  brown  substance,  called  caramel.  Sugar  will  decompose  by  fermentation  and 
break  up  into  simpler  compounds. 

Saccharine.— This  sweetening  agent  which  is  being  substituted  in  place  of  sugar  in  some 
instances,  was  discovered  about  1879  by  Oonstantine  Fahlberg,  then  a  student  in  Johns 
Hopkins  University  at  Baltimore.  It  is  derived  from  coal-tar,  and  possesses  500  times  the 
sweetening  power  of  sugar.  It  is  not  a  carbohydrate,  like  sugar,  and  it  possesses  no  nutri- 
tive value,  as  it  passes  through  the  system  unchanged.  It  is  an  acid,  will  not  ferment, 
and  has  some  antiseptic  properties,  retarding  decomposition  and  fermentation.  It  Is 
slightly  soluble  in  cold  water,  more  so  in  warm,  and  quite  soluble  in  boiling  water.  Its  use 
is  not  at  all  injurious.  As  it  has  no  nutritive  value,  it  must  be  regarded  more  as  a  spice 
than  as  a  food.  Owing  to  its  intense  sweetness  it  must  be  much  diluted  for  use.  Because 
of  its  antiseptic  properties  it  will  be  useful  in  preserving  fruits  and  fruit  juices.  It  is  also 
very  useful  in  diseases  like  diabetes,  glycosure,  obesity,  etc.,  where  sugar  is  injurious,  and 
also  in  babies'  food.  It  is  one  of  the  new  additions  made  by  modern  science  to  the 
resources  of  the  housewife,  as  well  as  the  physician  and  manufacturer,  and  its  use  will 
doubtless  rapidly  increase  in  the  near  future.  It  should  never  be  put  into  cold  water  and 
then  boiled  to  dissolve  it,  as  that  causes  its  partial  decomposition;  add  it  to  hot  fluids  only 
after  they  are  removed  from  the  fire.  It  should  never  come  into'  direct'  contact  with 
metallic  vessels. 

Starch. — Before  starch  can  be  taken  into  the  blood,  the  digestive  juices  must 
turn  it  into  sugar,  and  we  explained  how  that  is  done  in  describing  the  process 
of  digestion.  Raw  starch  would  pass  out  of  the  system  unassimilated.  When 
boiled,  the  granules  are  burst  and  are  then  readily  converted  into  sugar.  If  not 
acted  on  by  the  saliva,  it  passes  on  to  the  duodenum,  or  small  intestine,  where  its 
digestion  really  takes  place.  If  the  stomach  is  over-loaded  with  starch  at  any 
time,  the  digestion  will  be  influenced  by  certain  fermentations  which  result.  It 
seems  to  be  the  opinion  of  the  best  authorities  at  present  that  the  fermentation 
of  starchy  foods,  for  which  their  stomachs  are  not  prepared,  is  the  cause  of  the 


INTRODUCTION  17 

severe  and  troublesome  diarrhoeas  of  small  children.  To  show  the  value  of  cook- 
ing and  the  differences  in  starches,  it  may  be  said,  that  experiment  has  shown 
that  uncooked  starch  from  Indian  corn  may  be  completely  turned  into  sugar  by 
the  action  of  the  saliva  in  3  minutes,  oat  starch  in  6  minutes,  wheat  starch  in  40 
minutes,  and  potato  starch  in  3  hours,  but  after  thorough  cooking,  all  starches 
require  nearly  the  same  time,  so  that  cooking  greatly  aids  its  digestion.  Under 
the  microscope,  starch  is  seen  to  consist  of  little  rounded  granules,  varying  in 
form  according  to  the  plant  from  which  they  are  derived.  The  granules  are 
covered  with  a  skin  which  is  insoluble  in  cold  water,  but  which  bursts  in  boiling 
water,  letting  out  the  starch  which  is  inside. 

Bread,  potatoes,  rice,  barley  and  all  the  floury  foods  contain  more  starch  than 
anything  else,  and  corn-flour,  sago,  tapioca  and  arrowroot  are  nearly  pure 
starches.  There  is  much  starch  also  in  beans,  peas  and  lentils,  though  they  are 
often  spoken  of  as  flesh -forming  foods,  because  of  the  large  amount  of  casein 
which  they  contain.  There  is  no  starch  in  milk,  but  sugar  which  takes  its  place. 
It  will  be  seen  that  the  starchy  foods  are  the  cheapest  and  most  abundant  of  all, 
so  that  whenever  people  have  enough  of  any  food,  they  are  pretty  sure  to  have 
enough  of  these.  The  poor  people  get  these  most  readily,  but  the  richer  classes 
and  brain-workers  take  more  albumenoids  and  fats,  and  less  of  the  carbohydrates, 
at  least  in  their  starchy  form.  Starch  is  composed  of  oxygen,  hydrogen  and 
carbon,  and  when  heated  to  401°  F.  it  becomes  dextrin,  which  is  more  easily  di- 
gested than  starch,  although  its  chemical  composition  is  the  same.  This  dextrin 
is  used  in  preparing  many  of  the  "infant  foods,"  and  it  is  sometimes  called 
"British  gum,"  or  "starch  gum." 

The  Cellulose  or  cell  structure  of  plants  is  closely  allied  to  the  carbohydrates, 
it  being  composed  of  oxygen,  hydrogen  and  carbon.  It  must  first  be  changed  in- 
to sugar  before  it  can  be  absorbed  into  the  system.  Cellulose  appears  in  the  mem- 
brane which  surrounds  the  grains,  in  the  rinds  of  fruits,  in  the  skins  of  seeds,  in 
the  woody  fibre  of  grain  stalks,  etc.,  while  cotton,  linen  and  linen  paper  are 
mainly  composed  of  it.  When  submitted  to  the  action  of  strong  sulphuric  acid 
it  may  be  turned  to  sugar;  but  while  the  chemist  in  his  laboratory  can  change 
cellulose  into  sugar,  the  human  stomach  does  not  readily  act  on  it.  In  young 
and  tender  plants,  like  lettuce,  celery,  cabbage,  etc.,  the  stomach  digests  from 
50$  to  60$  of  the  cellulose,  but  in  older  plants  it  often  becomes  almost  indigest- 
ible. Even  the  ox  with  his  many  stomachs  only  gets  out  of  grass  and  hay  about 
60$  of  its  albumenoids,  and  with  man,  vegetable  foods,  as  generally  prepared, 
yield  from  25$  to  50$  less  of  their  nutrients  than  do  animal  foods.  A  working 
man  will  digest  97$  of  the  meat  he  eats,  while  only  60$  of  the  nutrients  of  a  dish  of 
beans  are  assimilated,  because  the  beans  are  encased  in  a  tough  skin  of  cellulose; 
and  this  shows  the  need  of  thorough  cooking,  and  the  separation  of  the  cellulose  as 
far  as  possible  from  the  other  ingredients.  Cellulose  should,  on  the  whole,  be  re- 
garded as  a  foreign  substance  to  be  gotten  out  of  the  way,  rather  than  as  a  food. 

Pectose  is  composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  and  is  found  in  many 
fruits,  like  currants,  plums  and  peaches,  and  in  some  vegetables,  like  turnips, 
beets,  etc.  It  turns  to  a  vegetable  jelly  known  as  pectine  when  boiled  in  water, 
and  this  it  is  which  makes  the  preserves  firm  which  are  made  from  plums,  pears, 
currants,  peaches,  etc. 

Ghivi,  which  in  its  composition  is  nearly  allied  to  cane  sugar,  is  found  dis- 
solved in  the  juices  of  many  fruits  and  stems,  like  apple,  plum,  etc.,  and  is 
usually  accompanied  with  a  little  lime  and  potash.  Gum  arable  and  Senegal  are 
2  examples.  Mucilage  appears  in  the  onion,  quince-seeds,  linseed,  etc.,  but  does 
not  dissolve  to  a  thin  liquid  like  gum  arabic,  although  it  probably  undergoes  so- 
lution and  absorption  in  the  body.     It  is  classed  with  the  carbohydrates. 

Fats. — The  fats  usually  employed  as  food  are  the  vegetable  oils,  like  olive  oil 
— and  latterly  in  this  country  cotton-seed  oil  — and  the  animal  fats,  .as  butter, 
suet,  lard,  etc.,  etc.  Fat  is  composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen.  It  is  an 
essential  article  of  food,  and  many  people  suffer  in  health  for  the  want  of  it, 
especially  among  the  poor  who  cannot  afford  the  dearer  fats,  or  do  not  understand 
the  cheaper,  and  among  the  sickly,  who  cannot — or  fancy  they  cannot — digest 
fat  in  any  form.  -If  it  is  only  digested,  one  fat  is  as  good  for  food  as  another. 
Cod  liver  oil  and  cream  are  the  easiest  to  digest.  Fats  that  are  greatly  heated 
decompose,  and  then  are  always  difficult  of  digestion,  which  is  the  reason  why 

2 


18  INTRODUCTION. 

fried  food  often  disagrees.  Many  persons  who  cannot  eat  a  lump  of  fat  with 
meat,  hot  or  cold,  can  eat  buttered  toast,  or  suet  pudding,  or  take  fat  in  some  of 
the  many  forms  in  which  the  cook  can  serve  it.  Fat  and  starch  can  replace  one 
another  to  some  extent,  but  there  must  be  some  fat,  and  it  is  better  in  this  cli- 
mate to  have  some  starchy  or  floury  food.  In  the  coldest  countries  plants  do  not 
grow,  and  so  starch  is  there  unknown,  fat  taking  its  place. 

The  nutritive  value  of  fats  and  oils  is  the  same,  and  they  may  be  considered 
as  formed  by  the  union  of  a  fatty  acid  and  glycerine;  thus,  if  3  parts  of  some 
fatty  acid,  like  palmitic,  be  heated  with  1  part  of  glycerine  in  a  closed  tube,  palm 
oil  and  water  are  produced.  Wax,  though  probably  of  similar  value  as  a  nutri- 
ent, differs  from  oils  and  fats  somewhat,  notably  in  not  yielding  glycerine.  The 
proper  digestion  of  fat  is  a  matter  of  great  importance,  for  it  is  essential  to 
healthy  tissue  formation,  as  well  as  being  a  fuel-food,  and  it  is  essential  to  tissue 
repair  as  well  as  tissue  growth.  Many  maladies  may  be  averted  if  the  system 
can  be  made  to  digest  fat  properly.  Fat  and  sugar  do  not  furnish  bile  acids,  and 
hence  the  bilious  are  comparatively  well  with  them,  but  they  may  lead  indi- 
rectly to  biliousness.  If  more  food  is  eaten  than  the  body  needs,  the  hydrocar- 
bons, which  are  readily  oxydized,  will  be  burnt  (oxydized)  first,  and  the  surplus, 
or  nitrogenous  elements,  will  be  imperfectly  oxydized,  which  is  the  reason  that  a 
rich  meal  causes  biliousness  in  persons  subject  to  such  attacks. 

Fat  swallowed  in  lumps  is  almost  indigestible,  and  hence  it  should  be  taken 
into  the  system  in  a  finely  divided  state.  Children  who  will  not  eat  fat  meat  will 
often  take  the  same  amount  of  fat,  as  butter,  spread  on  bread.  More  force  is 
produced  by  the  burning  or  oxydation  of  fat  in  the  body,  than  by  any  other  food 
material,  as  it  possesses  2%  times  the  power  of  starch  for  maintaining  heat  and 
activity.    The  average  working  man  requires  2  oz.  of  fat  daily. 

Carbonates  and  Salts. — These  include  common  salt  (chloride  of  sodium), 
potash,  phosphates  of  lime  and  iron.  Common  salt  is  a  necessary  food,  and  the 
only  mineral  habitually  added  to  food  as  such.  Potash  is  found  in  all  fresh 
fruits  and  vegetables;  probably  no  defect  is  more  common  than  the  want  of 
these,  especially  in  our  large  towns.  Lime  is  necessary  for  the  building  up  of  the 
bones  and  teeth.  It  is  found  in  whole  grains,  and  the  young  get  it  in  their 
milk;  when  we  see  weak  and  distorted  limbs  and  broken  teeth,  we  know  that  it 
has  been  missing.  Iron  occurs  in  nearly  all  articles  used  for  food,  though  in 
minute  quantities.  Distinct  traces  are  found  in  the  ashes  of  all  plants  used  for 
food.  These  salts  are  essential  to  health  and  without  them  many  diseases  would 
fasten  on  the  body,  like  the  scurvy  which  was  such  a  terror  to  sailors,  and  which 
vegetables  cure  like  magic.  The  bones  of  an  adult  man  contain  at  least  70  %  of 
mineral  matter,  mostly  phosphate  of  lime,  while  the  muscles,  blood  and  tissue 
contain  salts  of  potash  and  soda,  and  some  iron. 

Salt. — Common  salt  is  the  most  widely  distributed  substance  in  the  body;  it 
exists  in  every  fluid  and  in  every  solid;  and  not  only  is  it  everywhere  present, 
but  in  almost  every  part  it  constitutes  the  largest  portion  of  the  ash  when  any 
tissue  is  burnt.  In  particular  it  is  a  constant  constituent  of  the  blood,  and  it 
maintains  in  it  a  proportion  which  is  almost  wholly  independent  of  the  amount 
which  is  consumed  with  the  food.  The  blood  will  take  up  so  much  and  no  more, 
however  much  we  may  take  with  our  food;  and  on  the  other  hand,  if  none  be 
given,  the  blood  parts  with  its  natural  quantity  slowly  and  unwillingly.  From 
salt  also  comes  the  hydrochloric  acid  for  the  bile,  and  the  soda  for  the  bile  salt  in 
the  liver.  It  is  of  immense  importance  in  the  processes  ministering  to  the 
nutrition  of  the  body,  for  not  only  is  it  the  chief  salt  in  the  gastric  juice,  and 
essential  for  the  formation  of  bile,  but  it  is  an  important  agent  in  promoting  the 
process  of  diffusion,  and  therefore  of  absorption.  Direct  experiment  has  shown 
that  it  promotes  the  decomposition  of  albumen  in  the  body.  Nothing  can 
demonstrate  its  value  better  than  the  fact  that  if  albumen  without  salt  is  intro- 
duced into  the  intestine  of  an  animal,  no  portion  of  it  is  absorbed,  while  it  all 
quickly  disappears  if  salt  be  added.  The  conclusion,  therefore,  is  obvious,  that 
salt,  being  wholesome,  and  indeed  necessary,  should  be  taken  in  moderate  quan- 
tities, and  that  abstention  from  it  is  likely  to  be  injurious. 

Acids  are  found  in  fruits  and  most  vegetable  products.  ■  They  appear  partly 
in  the  free  state  and  partly  in  the  form  of  salts.  Citric,  Malic,  Tartaric  and 
Oxalic  are  the  4  principal  acids  found  in  vegetable  products.    Acetic  acid  is  mainly 


INTRODUCTION.  19 

produced  by  the  fermentation  of  alcohol  or  sugar,  but  also  occurs  in  some  fruits, 
especially  when  they  are  over-ripe  or  decaying.  In  the  process  of  digestion  the 
acids  all  act  much  alike,  exerting  a  solvent  action  on  some  foods,  but  their 
nutritive  power  is  small.  Too  little  is  consumed  to  give  out  much  heat  or  force, 
and  besides  they  are  already  highly  oxydized,  and  easily  turn  into  the  final  prod- 
ucts of  oxydation — carbonic  acid  and  water.  Citric  acid  is  the  most  wholesome, 
tartaric  and  malic  less  so,  and  oxalic  the  least  so  of  any  acid. 

Water  undergoes  no  chemical  change  in  the  system  and  produces  no  force; 
yet  it  is  indispensable  as  a  component  part  of  food,  for  it  facilitates  the  chemical 
changes  which  take  place. 

Potential  Energy  of  Food. — As  we  elsewhere  explain,  one  office  of  food  is  to 
furnish  the  body  with  heat  and  muscular  power.  Although  the  carbohydrates 
and  fats  serve  principally  to  furnish  these,  the  albumenoids  can  also  be  used  by 
the  body  for  this  purpose;  for  while  the  carbohydrates  and  fats  cannot  take 
the  place  of  the  albumenoids,  the  latter  can,  to  a  certain  extent,  supply 
the  place  of  the  former.  Scientists  by  experimenting  with  an  apparatus  called  a 
calorimeter  determine  the  amount  of  heat  (or  muscular  energy)  which  any  given 
food  can  furnish  to  the  body,  and  this  they  call  its  "potential  energy."  To  ex- 
press the  amount  of  these  heat  (or  force)  producing  elements,  they  adopt  a  stand- 
ard which  they  call  a  "Calorie."  A  Calorie  is  an  amount  of  heat  which  will 
raise  lib. of  water  4°  F.,  or  stated  in  terms  of  mechanical  energy,  it  will  lift  1.53 
tons  1  foot.  Now  to  tell  the  average  woman  that  lib. of  potatoes,  for  example, 
contains  375  Calories,  means  to  her  almost  nothing  at  all,  but  to  tell  her  that  lib. 
of  potatoes  contains  375  Calories,  while  lib.  of  wheat  flour  contains  1645  Calories, 
ought  to  mean  a  great  deal,  for  it  means  that  lib.  of  flour  contains  nearly  5  times 
as  much  force  producing  power  (i.  e.,  potential  energy)  as  there  is  in  lib.  of 
potatoes.  So  also  lib.  of  neck  of  beef,  worth  perhaps  8  cents,  contains  1100 
Calories  (20  cents'  worth  would  contain  2750  Calories),  while  lib.  of  sirloin,  worth, 
say,  20  cents,  only  contains  1210  Calories,  so  that  clearly  the  neck  is  very  much 
the  most  economical  piece  to  buy,  as  it  will  supply  the  body  with  more  than 
twice  as  much  power  for  the  same  money.  By  studying  the  tables  given  else- 
where, in  this  comparative  way,  not  only  regarding  the  potential  energy,  but  the 
relative  amounts  of  albumenoids  and  other  elements  as  well,  much  information 
ought  to  be  obtained  of  practical  value  to  housekeepers. 


THE  AMOUNT  AND  CHARACTER  OF  FOOD  NEEDED. 

The  amount  and  character  of  the  food  required  varies  with  different  individ- 
uals, depending  on  age,  sex,  climate,  season  of  the  year,  physical  and  mental  ex- 
ertion, etc.  Under  a  meat  diet  there  is  a  more  copious  secretion  of  gastric  juice, 
while  under  a  vegetable  diet  the  saliva  is  more  abundant,  showing  that  there  is 
a  provision  in  the  system  for  variation  in  the  food.  A  certain  amount  of  meat 
undoubtedly  increases  the  bodily  vigor,  although  it  is  not  absolutely  necessary 
for  health.  Of  the  entire  weight  of  the  body,  in  the  plant-eating  animals  the 
digestive  organs  form  15  to  20$;  in  the  flesh  eating  animals  they  form  5  to  Q%;  in 
man  they  form  7  to  8$.  It  will  be  seen  that  man  approaches  much  nearer  to  the 
flesh-eating  than  to  the  plant-eating  animals,  and  yet,  by  the  aid  of  proper  cook- 
ing (which  is  a  great  help)  man  can  digest  many  of  the  vegetables  much  more 
quickly  and  completely  than  can  be  done  by  a  plant-eating  animal  like  the  cow. 
But  to  get  the  amount  of  albumenoids  essential  to  health  on,  say,  an  exclusive 
potato  diet,  a  man  would  heed  at  least  10  lbs.  a  day,  and  Dr.  Edward  Smith 
found  some  poor  Irish  laborers  who  actually  eat  that  much.  Such  a  diet,  how- 
ever, would  distend  the  digestive  organs  unnaturally,  and  make  one  dull  and 
stupid.    A  mixed  diet  is  undoubtedly  best. 

In  early  life  all  vital  processes  are  most  rapid,  and  provision  must  also  be 
made  for  the  growth  of  all  parts  of  the  body,  while  in  old  age  the  vital  processes 
become  least  active;  they  are  more  active  in  the  spring,  in  cold  climates,  and  in 
highlands,  and  less  so  at  the  end  of  summer,  in  hot  climdttes,  and  in  valleys,  and 
exercise  always  stimulates  these  processes.  Man  requires  more  nitrogenous  food 
than  woman. 

Looking  at  the  different  nations  of  the  world,  we  find  they  have  almost  in- 


20 


INTRODUCTION. 


stinctively  chosen  the  foods  most  suited  to  their  needs.  The  Esquimaux,  eating 
his  raw  blubber  and  other  fatty  and  oily  foods,  obtains  his  carbonaceous  food  in 
its  most  concentrated  form,  furnishing  the  body  with  the  fuel  needed  to  give 
warmth  to  withstand  the  intense  cold.  In  Sweden,  Norway  and  other  northern 
countries,  they  tend  towards  the  Esquimaux's  oily  diet.  In  India  and  China,  on 
the  other  hand,  where  rice  is  universally  eaten,  there  is  very  little  need  for  the 
concentrated  heat  producers,  the  starch  and  sugar  of  rice,  with  a  little  olive 
oil  or  melted  butter,  answering  their  needs  well.  In  Italy  the  general  use  of 
macaroni  furnishes  them  with  the  nutritive  elements  of  wheat  in  its  most  con- 
densed form.  And  so,  in  the  light  of  the  principles  we  have  explained,  we  might 
examine  the  characteristic  diets  of  other  nations,  but  it  must  not  be  inferred  that 
the  staple  articles  of  food  in  the  different  countries  are  in  all  instances  perfectly 
adapted  to  their  needs,  as  some  at  least  of  the  national  dietaries  might  with  a 
little  knowledge  be  much  improved. 

But  while  the  leading  races  have  in  a  general  way  hit  on  the  foods  which  are 
in  the  main  suited  to  their  conditions,  our  complicated  modern  life  demands 
many  varieties  of  diet.  The  literary  man  requires  one  thing,  the  mechanic 
another;  the  growing  child  needs  food  suited  to  its  wants,  and  the  aged  grand- 
parent a  different  diet,  and  we  should  know  how  to  meet  these  varying  wants. 
Our  advancing  knowledge  of  the  human  organism  and  the  requirements  of  the 
system  demand  that  our  dietaries  shall  be  more  thoughtfully  prepared,  and 
adapted  to  our  needs.  If  there  is  an  excess  of  one  element,  and  a  lack  of  another, 
that  excess  or  lack  means  disorder  in  the  system,  and  in  time  disease,  for  which 
our  ignorance  is  wholly  responsible.  Moreover,  an  intelligent  selection  of  foods 
will  often  avert  the  effects  of  inherited  or  other  disorders,  and  a  child  burdened 
with  scrofulous  or  other  diseases,  may,  by  a  scientific  selection  of  the  proper 
foods,  be  often  saved  from  a  life  of  invalidism  or  an  early  death. 

It  is  impossible,  however,  to  lay  down  exact  rules  for  the  selection  of  food  in 
health  and  disease.  Only  general  principles  can  be  given,  known  scientific  facts 
can  be  explained,  well-tried  common  experience  recorded,  and  from  these  mate- 
rials the  diet  most  suited  to  special  cases  must  be  selected  with  intelligence  and 
judgment.  While  in  robust  health  the  appetite,  guided  by  the  experience  of  the 
individual,  is  a  generally  safe  guide,  in  debility,  dyspepsia,  gout  and  all  diseased 
conditions,  the  proper  selection  of  the  food  is  of  very  great  importance.  All  phy- 
sicians know  that  if  proper  dietetic  rules  were  universally  observed,  robust 
health  would  be  more  common,  recovery  from  disease  more  rapid,  and  the  death 
rate  much  diminished.  They  also  know  that  the  digestibility  of  food,  and  its 
proper  assimilation,  depend  as  much  upon  the  mode  of  its  preparation  as  upon 
the  condition  of  the  person  who  eats  it,  hence  the  importance  of  understanding 
the  principles  of  cookery.  One  physician  told  the  writer  that  the  trouble  with 
nearly  %  of  all  the  patients  who  came  to  him  for  advice  could  be  traced  to  indi- 
gestion, caused  by  improper  or  improperly  cooked  food. 

While  the  limits  of  this  work  will  not  allow  us  to  treat  as  fully  as  we  would 
like  the  large  and  important  subjects  of  food  and  dietetics,  we  can  indicate  the 
direction  in  which  the  best  thought  of  the  day  is  tending,  and  we  hope  some  of 
our  readers  may  be  stimulated  to  further  investigation  of  these  subjects,  for  it 
will  not  be  a  waste  of  either  time  or  labor.  It  will  well  repay  earnest  study  in 
leisure  hours,  and  it  can  safely  be  said  that  there  is  no  subject  which  deserves 
more  careful  study  by  women  than  that  of  the  selection  and  preparation  of  food. 

Now  the  intelligent  woman  who  attempts  to  provide  food  for  her  family  must 

DAILY  RATIONS  REQUIRED  FOR  DIFFERENT  AGES  AND  SEXES. 


Children,  1  to  2  years 

Children,  2  to  6  years 

Children,  6  to  15  years 

Woman  at  moderate  work 

Man  at  moderate  work 

An  aged  man 

An  aged  woman 


Carbohydrates. 

Albumenoids. 

Ounces. 

Ounces. 

2.4 

0.9 

6.3 

1.8 

10.2 

2.4 

12.5 

3.0 

16.0 

4.2 

11.1 

3.3 

8.3 

2.6 

Ounces. 
1.2 
1.3 
1.4 
1.8 
2.0 
2.2 
1.6 


Potential  Energy. 


Calories. 
765 
1420 
2040 
2425 
3160 
2475 
1860 


INTRODUCTION. 


21 


aim  to  supply  all  the  different  food  elements  in  proper  proportion,  and  to  do  it 
so  that  those  she  loves  and  for  whom  she  provides  may  have  the  proper  physical 
nourishment  to  sustain  them  in  the  great  struggle  of  life.  (See  page  20  for  the 
generally  accepted  average  daily  rations  for  persons  of  different  ages  and  sexes.) 

The  best  authorities  think  that  %  °'  the  albumenoids  should  come  from  the 
animal  kingdom.  Of  course  the  health,  temperament,  climate,  and  amount  of 
work  being  done  must  be  taken  into  consideration,  but  these  are  fair  averages. 
It  will  be  seen  that  this  dietai*y  calls  for  about  twice  as  much  of  the  albumenoids 
as  of  the  fats,  and  a  little  over  4  times  as  much  of  the  carbohydrates  as  of  the 
albumenoids.  The  table  given  below  will  serve  to  show  the  proportions  of  these 
elements  found  in  the  different  foods. 


CONSTITUENTS  IN   ONE  POUND  OP  VARIOUS  POODS. 


NAME  OF  FOOD. 

Water. 

Albumenoids. 
(Flesh  Form- 
ers.) 

Starch,  Sugar, 

Etc. 
(Heat  Givers.) 

Fats. 
(Heat  Giving.) 

Mineral 

Matters. 

oz. 

11 
3 
3 
3 
8 
1 

14 
5 
3 

11 

13 
8 

10 

13 
7 
0 
2 
6 

12 
2 

13 

10 
3 

grs. 

361 
105 
250 
147 
0 
262 
105 
214 
140 
207 
196 

44 
434 
333 

16 
350 
126 

69 

0 

147 

143 

0 

34 

oz.      grs. 

0  336 
3      397 

1  133 
0      434 

3  184 
0       70 

0  105 

4  294 

1  193 

2  105 

3  336 
1      333 

3  70 

4  1 
3         0 
3      353 
3      355 
1      263 

0  161 

1  87 

2  43 
2      281 
1      897 

oz.     grs. 
0        80 

8  434 
0         0 

12      135 
0         0 

0  31     • 

1  108 
0      140 

11  51 
0         0 
0         0 
0         0 
0         0 
6         1 
0         0 

10  391 

9  108 
0         0 
3      185 

12  133 
0         0 
0         0 

11  0 

oz.     grs. 
0        43 
0      161 

10      191 
0       91 
4      340 

14       14 
0       35 

4  333 

0  350 

1  333 

0  331 

5  263 

2  170 

3  7 

6  176 

1  270 
0      175 
8         0 
0       21 
0       35 
0      301 

2  281 
0       57 

oz.     grs. 
0        56 

0      203 

0      301 

0       77 

Beef 

0      350 

0       70 

0       84 

0      341 

Corn  Meal 

0      140 

0     231 

0      112 

0     244 

0      331 

Milk 

0         8 

0      245 

0      147 

0      210 

Pork 

0      105 

0       70 

Rice. 

0       35 

0      387 

Veal  

0      312 

0       49 

The  following  tables,  which  are  intended  to  be  suggestive  mainly,  will  indi- 
cate the  method  of  combining  the  different  foods  for  a  dietary  for  an  average 
working  man,  to  supply  the  needed  amounts  of  the  different  food  elements. 
These  tables  give  the  approximate  cost  of  the  foods  alone,  without  including  the 
expense  of  cooking,  etc. 


DAILY  RATIONS  WITHOUT  MEAT  [CHEAP]. 

No.  1.  No.  2. 


h 
S3 

A  <° 

£1  g 

Is 

o 
O 

u 

go 

3 

ah 

to 

o 
O 

2  lbs.  Potatoes. .. 
2  oz.  Lard  

oz. 

1.05 

.30 

.55 

0 

.67 

0 

1.50 

0 

oz. 
8.75 
1.25 
-  .56 
1.90 
6.71 

0 
1.74 

0 

oz. 

0.09 

.13 

.74 

0 

0 

2.00 

.13 

0 

cts. 
3 

0l/s 
3 

2 

1M 

4 

3 

V/i  lbs.  Bread.... 

4  oz.  Oatmeal 

llA  lbs.'  Potatoes. 

oz. 

1.68 

.60 

.50 

0 

.55 

0 

.89 

0 

oz. 

13.25 

2.55 

5.00 

1.90 

.56 

0 

2.00 

0 

oz. 

.12 

.35 

0 

0 

.74 

2.00 

.60 

10 

cts. 
4 
1 
1'/* 

3 

1H 

3  Oups  Coffee 

1 
1 

4.07 

20.91 

3.09 

16& 

4.22 

25.26 

3.21 

13K 

22 


INTRODUCTION. 


No.  1. 


DAILY  RATIONS  WITH  MEAT. 


No.  2. 


a 

< 

si 

si 

o3 

0 
O 

a 

S-v 
|° 
< 

el 

0 
0 

IV2  lbs.  Bread 

154  lbs.  Potatoes. 
>4lb.  Beef  (fat)  .. 

1  Pint  Milk 

2  oz.  Sugar 

3 Cups  Coffee. ... 

oz. 

1.68 

.50 

1.40 

.55 

0 

0 

oz. 

13  25 

5.00 

0 

.56 

1  90 

0 

20.71 

oz. 

.12 

0 

1  55 

.74 
0 
0 

cts. 
4l/2 
W2 
8 
3 

0% 
2 

lib.  Bread 

2  oz.  Oatmeal  ... 
2 lbs.  Potatoes  ... 
\i  lb   Beef  (lean). 
2oz.  Codfish 

1  Pint  Milk 

oz. 

1.05 

.30 

.67 

70 

1.70 

0 

.55 

0 

26 

0 

OZ 

8.75 

1.25 

6.71 

0 

0 

0 

56 

1  90 

.23 

0 

oz. 
0.09 

.13 
0 

.10 

.03 
1.70 

.74 
0 
0 
0 

cts. 
3 

0!4 

wt 

5 

1* 
4 
3 

4.13 

2.41 

19  34 

03A 

4 

1 

3  Cups  Tea 

5.23 

19.40 

2.79 

24 

COOKING  AND  ITS  OBJECT. 

The  principal  object  of  cookery  and  the  artificial  preparation  of  food  must  be 
to  assist  in  the  wonderful  series  of  changes  known  as  digestion  and  as- 
similation. The  art  of  cookery  flourished  for  ages  before  the  modern  sciences 
were  known,  and  until  recently  there  was  no  such  thing  as  a  science  of  cookery; 
but  the  mere  fact  that  cookery  long  existed  without  the  aid  of  science  is  no 
reason  why  it  should  continue  to  do  so.  In  the  latter  part  of  the  18th  century 
Count  Rumf ord  made  his  memorable  experiments  on  feeding  the  poor  in  Munich, 
and  although,  owing  to  the  ignorance  of  chemistry  and  physiology  which  then 
prevailed,  many  of  his  deductions  were  wrong,  the  interest  in  the  study  of 
the  food  problem  was  awakened.  The  first  experimental  agricultural 
college  in  the  world  was  established  at  Mockern,  Saxony,  in  1851,  but  since  then 
many  others  have  been  established,  and  these  and  the  great  universities  have  in 
their  laboratories  made  analyses  of  most  of  the  foods  used  by  men  and  animals, 
and  they  are  now  doing  some  most  excellent  work.  Since  1863,  when  Dr.  Ed- 
ward Smith  made  his  report  on  the  amount  of  food  needed  to  support  a  family 
(a  report  called  out  by  the  necessities  of  the  cotton  spinners  in  Cheshire  and 
Lancashire,  England,  growing  out  of  the  American  Civil  War),  other  scientists 
have  investigated  and  traced  all  the  food  taken  into  the  bodies  of  certain  individ- 
uals while  they  were  at  rest  and  while  they  were  at  work.  Estimates  have  thus 
been  made  of  the  amount  of  food  needed  to  sustain  both  men  and  women  in  va- 
rious conditions  in  life,  and  much  light  has  been  shed  on  the  subject  of  furnishing 
the  proper  amount  of  nourishment  to  sustain  the  human  system  in  health  and 
vigor.  And  how  about  the  science  of  cookery?  This  science  can  make  no  ad- 
vance without  the  help  of  chemistry  and  physiology,  but  these  are  comparatively 
new  sciences,  and  every  year  they  make  substantial  advances.  Only  a  few 
scientific  principles  have  yet  been  applied  in  cookery,  but  there  has  been  a  great 
advance  in  the  last  20  years  and  the  way  is  now  open  for  still  greater  progress  in 
the  future.  Scientists  have  been  so  absorbed  by  their  work  in  other  directions 
that  they  have  given  comparatively  little  attention  to  the  subject  of  cookery, 
although  a  beginning  has  been  made,  and  much  work  done.  The  day  cannot  be 
far  distant,  however,  when  all  the  resources  of  our  rapidly  advancing  sciences 
will  be  brought  to  bear  on  this  subject,  and  we  think  it  probable  that  through 
the  application  of  chemistry  to  the  processes  of  cookery,  changes  will  be  wrought 
in  the  not  distant  future  which  will  fully  equal,  in  their  practical  benefits  to  the 
human  race,  any  of  the  advances  which  have  so  dazzled  and  astonished  those 
who  have  been  privileged  to  live  in  the  last  few  decades.  And  these  are  not  the 
wild  dreams  of  visionaries,  but  the  cautiously  formed  opinion  of  those  who  know 
much  of  the  work  which  has  been  done  in  our  laboratories,  and  of  the  principles 
which  underlie  the  various  processes.  Mr.  Mattieu  Williams,  speaking  of  this 
subject,  asks  the  question,  "whether  a  very  great  refinement  of  scientific  cookery 
may  or  may  not  enable  us  to  convert  nutshells,  wood  shavings  and  sawdust  into 
wholesome  and  digestible  food?"  and  he  answers:  "I  have  no  doubt  whatever  that  it 


INTRODUCTION.  23 

can."  Other  scientists  see  nothing  unreasonable  in  such  an  opinion.  In  the  chem- 
ists' laboratory  already  an  old  handkerchief  and  a  piece  of  an  old  shirt  have  been 
turned  into  sugar.  Of  course  this  cannot  be  done  in  the  average  kitchen,  but  it 
shows  the  possibilities  before  us. 

When  we  consider  that  a  healthy  man  of  usual  size  takes  into  his  stomach 
every  year,  on  an  average,  about  300  lbs.  of  meat,  500  lbs.  of  bread,  300  lbs.  of  pota- 
toes and  vegetables,  90  lbs.  of  butter  and  fats,  and  150  gallons  of  tea,  coffee  and 
water,  or  other  fluids,  we  can  easily  see  the  great  importance  which  is  to  be  at- 
tached to  the  proper  cooking  and  preparation  of  this  material.  And  none  are 
more  interested  in  this  subject  than  the  poor.  Those  who  have  been  much 
among  the  working  classes  know  that  they  suffer  from  various  disorders  arising 
from  badly-cooked  and  therefore  ill-digested  food,  for  the  cure  of  which,  suitable 
food  skilfully  prepared  will  do  more  than  medicine.  Furthermore,  their  necessi- 
ties compel  them  to  make  much  out  of  little,  and  to  perform  every  cooking  op- 
eration with  the  fewest  appliances,  and  with  no  time  to  spare ;  but  perfection  in 
the  art  of  cookery  is  only  attained  by  experience,  a  careful  study  of  the  qualities 
of  foods,  and  some  knowledge  of  the  underlying  principles  involved. 

We  certainly  think  that  it  is  very  important  for  those  who  from  necessity  or 
choice  are  called  upon  to  prepare  the  food  on  which  the  life  and  health  of  the 
human  body  must  depend,  to  endeavor  to  understand  at  least  the  fundamental 
principles  which  underlie  their  work — not  only  for  their  own  sake,  but  for  those 
for  whom  they  provide,  or  may  be  called  upon  to  advise.  In  this,  as  in  other 
things,  "  knowledge  is  power."  While  many  among  the  poorer  classes  of  people 
suffer  because  of  the  limited  variety  and  inferior  quality  of  their  food,  large 
classes  of  more  prosperous  people  suffer  quite  as  much  from  the  imperfect  man- 
ner in  which  their  food  is  prepared  for  the  table. . 

Now,  if  we  ask  what  are  the  principal  reasons  for  preparing  and  cooking  food, 
the  following  would  be  given :  (1).  Cooking  makes  the  food  more  attractive  to 
the  senses.  Not  only  the  appetite,  but  the  eye  and  smell  are  gratified  by  the 
processes  of  baking,  roasting  and  stewing,  and  thus  the  food  becomes  more 
longed  for,  and  consequently  more  gratifying  than  it  could  possibly  be  in  a  raw 
state.  (2).  The  process  of  cooking  is  attended  or  preceded  by  processes  of  clean- 
ing, by  which  much  in  food  that  is  repulsive  and  useless  is  cast  aside.  (3).  The 
process  of  cooking  facilitates  and  hastens  the  process  of  digestion.  Boiling, 
stewing  and  roasting  make  flesh,  fish  or  vegetables  softer  or  more  juicy,  so  that 
they  are  more  easily  acted  on  by  the  digestive  fluids  and  more  easily  assimilated 
by  the  system.  (4).  Cookery  destroys  the  parasites  with  which  some  foods  are 
infested.  (5).  Because  of  the  economy  of  warm  food.  All  cold  food  introduced 
into  the  stomach  must  be  warmed  there  before  it  can  be  digested  and  assimilated, 
and  if  it  is  warmed  before  being  eaten,  it  is  a  distinct  saving  to  the  system. 

The  most  important  results  of  cookery  at  present  are  to  be  ascribed  to  the 
action  of  heat  upon  the  various  constituents  of  our  food.  Many  of  the  foods 
now  eaten  would  become  useless  to  us  if  they  had  to  be  eaten  raw.  Cooking  may 
not  alter  the  chemical  constitution  of  a  food,  and  yet  it  may  entirely  change  its 
practical  value  to  mankind.  Many  of  the  changes  wrought  by  heat  are  easily  ex- 
plained. Whether  albumen  is  barely  coagulated  or  is  hard  and  horny,  whether 
fiber  is  shrivelled  or  swelled,  whether  gelatine  is  dry  and  brittle  or  dissolved,  it 
does  not  take  a  scientific  head  to  discover,  but  science  tells  us  why  these  things 
are,  and  so  enables  us  to  bring  our  food  readily  into  whatever  state  we  will. 
Given  good  food,  and  one  cook  so  manipulates  it  that  the  eaters  are  well  nour- 
ished and  pleased;  another  cook  leaves  them  hungry  and  discontented.  Unhappily, 
as  things  go,  many  a  badly  cooked  dish  has  cost  an  industrious  husband  a  month's 
earnings  in  doctor's  bills,  and  many  a  human  life  has  been  sacrificed  to  the  in- 
genious preparations  of  our  kitchens.  If  every  intelligent  cook  would  try  and 
find  out  the  reasons  for  the  various  operations  of  the  kitchen,  instead  of  working 
by  rote  in  a  blind  sort  of  way,  the  gain  to  the  community  would  be  almost  ines- 
timable. 

TIMES  AND  MANNER  OF  EATING. 

Among  the  principal  laws  of  diet  which  have  been  established  by  experience, 
and  which  are  more  or  less  explained  and  confirmed  by  chemical  and  economical 
science,  are  these :    (1).    The  appetite,  with  all  its  liabilities  to  error,  is,  within 


24  INTRODUCTION. 

certain  limits,  and  under  the  guide  of  individual  experience,  a  valuable  guide  in 
determining  the  quality  and  quantity  of  our  food.  (2).  The  food  of  all  classes 
should  be  generous,  both  in  quantity  and  quality;  and  there  should  be  an  agree- 
able variety,  not  only  from  week  to  week  and  day  to  day,  but  at  each  principal 
meal.  (3).  The  quantity,  the  quality  and  the  variety  of  food  must  be  modified 
by  race,  climate,  season,  age,  sex,  occupation,  habit,  and  the  progress  of  civiliza- 
tion. (4).  The  principal  meals  should  be  taken  with  tolerable  regularity,  and  in 
calmness  and  leisure,  and  amid  agreeable  social  surroundings. 

The  custom  of  having  regular  hours  for  meals  is  peculiar  to  civilization,  and 
is  only  possible  where  food  is  tolerably  abundant  and  accessible;  it  is  most  neces- 
sary among  those  who  are  most  sensitive,  delicate  and  nervous.  The  times  for 
eating  for  the  great  majority  of  people  should  be  morning,  noon  and  night. 
Those  who  work  hard  cannot  labor  to  advantage  if  the  meals  are  more  than  6 
hours  apart,  as  they  begin  to  lose  strength. 

However  the  diet  may  be  regulated,  a  few  simple  rules  should  always  be  borne 
in  mind:  (1).  That  while  a  low  or  spare  diet  is  seldom  either  necessary  or  harm- 
less, the  stomach  should  never  be  filled  to  an  extent  sufficient  to  cause  any  sen- 
sation of  uneasiness.  (2).  That  eating  should  always  be  sufficiently  slow  to 
admit  of  thorough  mastication  of  the  food.  (3).  That  solid  food  should  not  be 
taken  with  much  fluid,  it  being  better  to  drink  freely  between  meals.  (4).  That 
neither  mind  nor  body  should  be  actively  exercised  very  soon  after  a  full  meal. 
If  these  simple  rules  could  be  adopted,  and  at  the  same  time  a  sufficient  amount 
of  exercise  could  be  taken,  pure  air  breathed,  and  proper  habits  of  life  adopted, 
the  health  and  happiness  of  most  people  would  be  much  improved. 

THE  HOUSEWIFE'S   AIM. 

In  conclusion  we  may  say,  that  the  work  which  devolves  on  the  housewife  in 
providing  the  food  for  a  family,  may  be  divided  into  4  heads:  (1).  In  obtaining 
the  necessary  food  elements,  she  should  endeavor  to  obtain  them  in  their  cheapest 
form — this  would  come  under  the  head  of  marketing.  (2).  Having  purchased 
the  food,  she  should  so  cook  it  as  to  best  utilize  its  nutritive  elements — this  re- 
quires intelligent  cooking  so  that  the  digestibility  of  the  food  may  be  increased 
instead  of  lessened,  as  is  too  often  the  case.  (3).  To  so  season  and  flavor  the 
food  as  to  make  it  palatable  and  inviting.  To  make  food  so  attractive  that  it  will 
be  eaten  with  zest  is  an  item  too  often  overlooked  by  the  indifferent  cook.*  (4). 
To  utilize  every  scrap  so  that  nothing  is  wasted. — To  render  such  assistance  as 
we  can  to  our  readers,  in  these  various  branches  of  their  work,  will  be  our  aim 
in  the  following  pages. 

*The  old  saying  that  an  attractive  article  of  food  causes  the '"mouth  to  water"  has  a 
basis  in  fact,  because  the  sight  of  it  will  cause  the  salivary  glands  to  freely  discharge  their 
juices,  which  is  the  "watering  of  the  mouth"  referred  to,  while  a  repulsive  article  of  food 
does  not  do  so;  an  attractive  dish  of  food,  therefore,  clearly  stands  the  best  chance  of  being 
well  digested. 


MARKETING. 

The  thrifty  housewife  will  find  it  advantageous  to  do  the  marketing  for  the 
household  herself,  instead  of  simply  ordering  through  others.  By  so  doing  she 
will  secure  2  advantages — she  can  (1)  select  the  best  provisions,  and  (2)  get  them 
at  the  lowest  prices.  Many  housekeepers  dread  going  to  market,  and  think  it  is 
not  a  proper  place  for  ladies;  this  is  a  mistake,  for  as  many  gentlemen  will  be 
found  among  marketmen  as  in  any  other  business,  and  as  practical  knowledge  of 
this  kind  possessed  by  the  housewife  directly  affects  the  comfort  of  the  family, 
and  the  cost  of  supporting  it,  information  of  this  character  should  be  obtained 
as  far  as  possible  by  every  housekeeper.  As  a  variety  of  food  is  essential  to  both 
the  health  and  comfort  of  every  individual,  the  endeavor  should  be  made,  when 
purchasing,  to  provide  a  succession  of  different  kinds  of  food,  both  animal  and 
vegetable.  It  is  often  imagined  that  variety  involves  expense,  whereas  the  very 
opposite  is  true,  as  the  wider  the  range  of  a  housekeeper's  ideas  in  marketing,  the 
greater  the  opportunity  of  purchasing  to  advantage.  As  there  is  sometimes  a 
run  on  the  market  for  special  articles,  which  advances  their  prices,  while  other 
articles  may  be  proportionately  cheap,  it  is  often  best  not  to  decide  beforehand 
just  what  will  be  bought.  A  good  deal  of  care  is  required  in  marketing,  espec- 
ially for  a  large  family  with  a  limited  income,  and  we  hope  the  hints  we  offer  on 
these  subjects  will  prove  serviceable  to  our  readers.  One  thing,  which  many 
people  need  to  be  particularly  reminded  of,  is  that  to  pay  cash  down  is  the  only 
way  to  insure  the  best  value,  either  in  the  goods  purchased  or  in  comfort  gained. 
Poor  people  especially  suffer  from  ignorance  about  the  nutritive  value  of  dif- 
ferent foods.  They  seem  to  think  that  there  is  some  peculiar  virtue  in  the 
choicest  cuts  of  meat,  the  best  flour,  the  most  delicate  vegetables  and  the  highest 
priced  butter,  but  it  is  an  erroneous  idea.  Experienced  marketmen  say  that  the 
rich  will  buy  the  coarser  cuts  of  meat,  but  the  poor  refuse  them,  and  that  the 
money  of  the  poor  is  the  most  wastef  ully  expended.  The  amount  of  money 
wasted  in  injudicious  marketing  by  people  of  small  means  is  surprising.  They 
quite  generally  depend  on  buying  high  priced  foods,  rather  than  on  intelligent 
cooking  and  serving  to  make  their  tables  attractive.  It  is  certain  that  the  poor 
display  the  worst  economy  in  purchasing  as  well  as  in  the  cooking  of  their  food. 
Now  people  should  know  (poor  people  especially)  that  the  lower  priced  and 
tougher  parts  of  meat  contain  fully  as  much  nutriment  as  the  high  priced  cuts. 
In  buying  large  classes  of  food  (not  all)  it  is  emphatically  not  true  that  the  high- 
est priced  is  the  cheapest.  The  rich  will  always  buy  the  choicest  articles,  but  it 
is  delicate  flavor,  not  nutriment,  which  they  pay  for.  In  buying  codfish,  beans 
or  flour,  10  cents  will  get  as  much  nutriment  for  our  bodies  as  50  or  75  cents  will 
obtain  in  tenderloin,  salmon  or  lobster.  A  little  study  and  skill  in  preparing 
them  is  all  that  is  needed  to  utilize  the  lower  priced  foods  and  make  them  at- 
tractive. Tough  meat  can  be  made  tender  in  various  ways  which  we  explain 
elsewhere.  Buy  meat  ahead  in  winter,  and  keep  it  until  it  grows  tender.  Half 
a  calf's  head  will  make  a  splendid  soup.  Buy  the  fat  middle  rib  frequently,  and 
then  stew  it  long  and  well.  Make  soups  of  trimmings  and  tough  pieces,  and  the 
next  day  chop  up  the  tasteless  meat  and  make  it  palatable  with  flavors  and 
sauces.  Make  stews  and  ragouts  of  fairly  good  pieces,  and  broil  or  bake  the  parts 
which  are  tender  and  juicy.  When  fish  is  cheap,  buy  it.  Catfish,  for  example, 
are  excellent  when  fried. 

Considering  their  nutritive  value,  eggs,  even  when  cheapest,  are  not  as  cheap 
as  the  lowest  priced  cuts  of  meat  from  fat  animals,  but  they  are  valuable  in 
furnishing  variety,  and  they  can  be  used  in  making  various  egg  dishes.  Eggs  at 
15  cts.  a  doz.  are  about  equivalent  to  meat  at  12^  cts.  a  lb.;  at  30  cts.  a  doz.  they 
correspond  to  meat  at  25  cts.  a  lb.  It  will  be  seen  that  more  nourishment  can  be 
obtained  with  a  given  amount  of  money  by  buying  the  cheaper  parts  of  meat, 
like  brisket,  neck  and  flank.  Cheese  ought  to  be  more  highly  valued  than  it  is, 
and  can  be  bought  profitably  once  a  week.  (See  what  we  say  about  it  elsewhere.) 

(25) 


26  MARKETING. 

It  is  surprising  how  much  can  be  saved  to  a  family  by  a  little  intelligence  in 
buying,  and  some  knowledge  of  scientific  cookery.  A  diet  which  is  both  nour- 
ishing and  palatable  can  be  supplied  at  a  comparatively  small  cost  in  that  way. 

Great  care  should  also  be  taken  that  food  is  not  only  well  bought,  but  that 
nothing  is  thrown  away,  or  suffered  to  be  wasted  in  the  kitchen.  The  shank 
bones  of  mutton,  so  little  esteemed  in  general,  give  richness  to  soups  or  gravies, 
if  well  soaked  and  crushed  before  they  are  added  to  the  boiling,  being  particularly 
nourishing  for  sick  persons.  Roast  beef  bones,  or  shank  bones  of  ham,  make  ex- 
cellent stock  for  pea  soup.  The  dripping  from  a  half  spoiled  joint  is  useless  for 
food,  and  the  bone  will  certainly  spoil  soup.  Save  all  scraps  of  meat  and  bones 
left  from  roasts  and  broils,  and  utilize  them  in  the  soup  pot.  Also  save  the 
.  trimmings  from  corned  beef,  tongue,  ham,  etc.,  as  they  will  make  many  relishes. 
Have  the  trimmings  sent  home  with  the  meat  when  buying  it,  as  they  may  be 
used  in  soups  and  sauces. 

BUYING  MEATS. 

In  addition  to  the  special  directions  given  below,  it  may  be  useful  to  observe 
that  moderately  fat  meat  is  the  best  in  every  respect.  If  it  is  very  lean,  the  ani- 
mal has  been  underfed,  and  the  meat  will  probably  be  tough  and  tasteless;  if 
there  is  an  excess  of  fat,  it  renders  the  joint  costly  when  purchased  at  current 
rates.  Very  lean  meat  is  dear  at  any  price.  A  golden  rule  to  act  on  is  that  the 
inferior  joints  of  the  best  meat  are  better  than  the  best  joints  of  inferior  meat. 
Lean  meat  is  nitrogenous,  or  flesh-forming,  and  is  preferable  for  use  in  hot 
weather,  or  for  people  living  in  a  warm  climate;  but  in  cojd  countries  where 
heating  food  is  required,  fat  meats  are  more  necessary. 

Although  the  flesh  of  young  is  tenderer  than  that  of  adult  animals,  it  is  more 
difficult  to  digest.  Dr.  Smith  has  shown  that  this  is  mainly  because  the  flesh  of 
young  animals  cannot  be  perfectly  masticated;  hence  veal  and  lamb  are  more 
difficult  to  digest  than  beef  or  mutton,  and  are  worse  for  dyspeptics.  The  tis- 
sues are  more  gelatinous,  and  less  nourishing  and  stimulating  in  young  than  in 
adult  animals;  but  if  very  old,  the  flesh  may  be  so  tough  as  to  nearly  defy  both 
mastication  and  digestion. 

Good  raw  meat  is  neither  very  pale  nor  very  dark;  it  is  a  rich  red,  and  has  a 
marbled  look,  given  by  the  small  veins  of  fat  running  through  it.  To  the  touch, 
it  is  firm  and  elastic,  and  should  scarcely  wet  the  finger.  When  taken  from  a 
dish  upon  which  it  has  been  standing,  little  or  no  moisture  should  remain  behind. 
Bad  or  inferior  meat  is  either  lacking  in  color,  or  is  of  a  dark  purplish  tint.  It  is 
wet  or  sodden  to  the  touch,  and,  if  left  standing,  will  leave  a  pool  of  blood  and  water 
behind.  Without  having  an  actually  tainted  smell,  it  has  often  a  very  sickly  one; 
the  inside  fat  surrounding  the  kidneys  and  liver  is  often  suffused  with  blood. 
Meat  which  is  over  fresh,  or  too  recently  killed,  will  manifest  itself  by  the  smell 
quite  as  readily  as  tainted  meat — it  will  suggest  excessive  bloodiness. 

Do  not  buy  butcher's  meat,  or  poultry,  that  shows  any  signs  of  cruel  treatment  before 
being  slain;  meat  with  bruises,  discolored  spots  and  extra vasated  clots  of  blood  should  be 
avoided,  as  the  flesh  of  suffering  animals  undergoes  a  change  which  is  unwholesome. 

Putrid  Meat. — The  albuminous  substances  m  meat  when  they  putrefy  generate  certain 
organic  poisons,  which,  taken  into  the  system,  produce  symptoms  much  like  severe  cholera 
morbus,  and  often  result  fatally.  These  cases  are  most  often  caused  by  canned  meats  and 
sausage,  but  may  be  caused  by  any  putrid  meat. 

Beef. — This  should  have  an  open  grain,  smooth  and  juicy;  it  should  yield 
easily  to  pressure  and  have  a  rich  carnation  color.  The  fat  should  be  of  a 
whitish  or  cream  color — the  whiter  and  firmer  the  better.  Tht  bone  should  be 
small,  and  the  flesh  full.  If  the  meat  is  purplish,  and  the  fat  yellow,  it  is  poor 
beef.  When  fed  on  oil  cakes,  the  fat  will  be  of  a  deeper  color,  and  the  flesh  flabby. 
Stall-fed  beef  has  a  lighter  color  than  grass-fed,  and  beef  long  kept  turns  a 
darker  color  than  fresh  killed.  Ox  beef  is  best,  and  that  of  a  heifer  next.  Beef 
of  a  dark-brownish  or  purplish-red  should  be  avoided;  this  color  is  sometimes  the 
result  of  some  feverish  disease,  or  the  animal  has  been  slaughtered  before  resting, 
after  being  heated  and  exhausted  by  driving — in  either  case,  the  meat  is  un- 
wholesome. A  strict  observance  of  the  above  simple  rules  will  insure  even  an  in- 
experienced buyer  against  imposition. 

The  flavor  of  beef  is  richer,  and  it  takes  less  of  it  to  satisfy  hunger  than  of 
the  flesh  of  any  other  domestic  animal,  and  it  is  on  the  whole  the  best  for  a 
standby. 


MARKETING.  2? 

In  order  to  obtain  a  good  juicy  piece  of  roasting  beef,  the  meat  must  be  of  the  best 
quality,  and  come  from  a  well  fatted  animal;  it  must  also  have  been  kept  a  sufficient  time 
after  being  slaughtered  to  enable  it  to  ripen  a  little  before  cooking,  but  not  to  the  point  of 
the  slightest  taint.  Meat,  if  cooked  immediately  after  slaughtering,  is-  apt  to  be  hard  and 
tough. 

The  best  roasting  pieces  are  the  sirloin  and  standing- rib  pieces.  The  latter  should  have 
all  the  bone  cut  out,  and  be  rolled  up  and  skewered  into  a  round  shape;  or  the  long  string 
niece  may  be  cut  off  and  salted  for  boiling,  and  hashed  for  another  day.  It  should  be  re- 
membered that  a  good  sized  joint  is  more  economical  in  the  long  run,  even  in  small  families, 
than  a  very  small  one. 

Good  boiling  pieces  of  fresh  beef,  are  the  neck  piece,  the  shoulder  clods,  the  "aitchbone, 
and  any  part  of  the  animal  left  after  the  roasts  and  steaks  are  reserved.  The  boiling 
pieces  may  be  kept  in  a  pickle  of  brine,  with  sugar  in  the  solution,  and  a  little  saltpetre. 

The  best  parts  of  beef  for  steaks  are  the  sirloin,  porter-house,  and  the  first  cut  of  the 
round;  the  second  round  is  also  fairly  good.  Other  round  steaks  can  be  chopped  finely  in  a 
chopping  bowl  or  minced  in  a  machine  now  made  for  that  purpose,  for  Hamburg  or  Salis- 
bury steaks.  Hamburg  steaks  are  highly  seasoned,  but  Salisbury  steaks  are  more  suited  to 
invalids.  Pieces  of  the  shoulder-clod  can  also  be  minced  and  used  in  this  way,  as  well  as 
other  nice  pieces  of  beef  from  parts  not  suited  for  roasting  or  broiling  without  chopping. 
Chopped  steaks  are  most  desirable  for  old  people  and  invalids,  also  for  delicate  children. 
People  with  good  teeth  should  use  them  in  order  to  keep  them  good. 

The  fillet  of  beef  is  the  tenderloin— the  choicest  part  of  the  animal.  This,  by  foreign 
cooks  is  "larded,"  the  method  of  doing  which  we  explain  elsewhere.  In  this  country  the 
combined  flavor  of  fresh  beef  and  salt  pork  is  not  so  much  in  favor. 

Veal. — This  must  be  fresh  killed  to  be  good.  The  lean  should  be  white, 
smooth  and  juicy,  and  the  joints  stiff;  the  fat  should  be  white,  firm  and  abundant. 
Stale  veal  is  moist  and  clammy,  the  joints  are  flabby,  and  there  is  a  faint  musty 
smell.  In  buying  the  head,  see  that  the  eyes  are  plump  and  bright — not  dull  and 
sunk  in  the  head.  In  buying  legs,  get  those  which  are  not  skinned,  as  the  skin 
is  good  for  jelly  or  soup. 

Veal  is  neither  so  nutritious  nor  so  easily  digested  as  beef.  It  is  more  easily 
digested  when  roasted  or  broiled  than  when  boiled.  Some  people  cannot  digest 
veal  at  all,  and  it  causes  griping  and  diarrhoea  if  they  eat  it. 

Veal  is  best  when  the  animal  is  from  2  to  3  months  old.  The  flesh  of  the  bull-calf  is  the 
most  suitable  for  joints,  being  of  a  firmer  grain.  That  of  the  cow-calf  is  best  for  made 
dishes.  The  fillet  of  the  cow-calf  is  generally  preferred  because  it  has  the  udder.  The 
finest  calves  have  the  smallest  kidneys,  and  when  the  veal  is  good,  these  are  well  covered 
with  fat.  Although  veal  can  be  obtained  all  the  year  round,  it  is  best  from  May  to  Septem- 
ber. The  animal  should  not  be  bled  before  killing,  for,  although  the  meat  is  then  whiter, 
the  animal  is  reduced  in  vitality  and  weakened  by  the  bleeding,  and  is  in  the  condition  of  a 
diseased  animal.  When  the  flesh  is  of  a  yellowish  color,  it  is  either  from  an  animal  that  was 
ill,  or  the  meat  has  been  kept  too  long  since  slaughtering. 

Veal,  like  all  young  meat,  has  a  tendency  to  turn  very  quickly.  It  is  both  unpalatable 
and  most  unwholesome  when  it  is  at  all  tainted,  and  it  cannot  be  recovered,  as  brown 
meats  sometimes  are,  by  the  use  of  charcoal.  Therefore,  it  ought  not  to  be  kept  more  than 
2  days  in  summer  and  4  in  winter.  If  eaten  quite  fresh,  it  is  apt  to  be  a  little  tough.  To  as- 
sist it  in  keeping,  the  pipe  should  be  removed  from  the  loin  as  soon  as  it  comes  from  the 
butcher.  The  skirt  also  should  be  taken  at  once  from  the  breast,  the  inside  scraped  and 
wiped,  and  dredged  with  flour.  If  there  is  any  danger  of  the  veal  becoming  tainted,  wash 
it  and  put  it  into  boiling  water  for  10  minutes;  then  plunge  it  into  cold  water  till  cool,  wipe 
dry,  and  put  it  into  the  coolest  place  that  can  be  found. 

The  roasting  portions  are  the  fillet,  shoulder  and  loin;  also  the  best  end  of  the  neck. 
The  head  is  a  splendid  dish,  properly  managed;  the  feet  make  excellent  jelly;  both  the 
breast  and  knuckle  will  form  capital  little  affairs  on  one's  dinner  table,  as  the  former  will 
roast,  and  the  latter,  boiled  and  served  with  parsley,  is  accounted  a  delicacy  by  many. 
Veal  is  invaluable  in  the  stock  pot,  being  so  rich  and  delicate. 

Mutton. — This  should  be  of  a  rich  red  color,  close  in  the  grain  and  juicy;  the 
flesh  should  pinch  tender  and  rise  again  when  dented  with  the  finger.  The  fat 
should  be  white — whiter  than  beef  fat.  Look  at  the  vein  in  the  neck  of  the  fore- 
quarter — it  should  be  a  fine  blue.  Mutton  is  at  perfection  at  between  3  and  6 
years.  The  bones  should  be  small  and  legs  short.  The  flesh  of  wethers  is  better 
than  that  of  ewes,  as  the  latter  are  not  killed  as  long  as  they  are  profitable  for 
raising  lambs,  and  so  their  flesh  is  apt  to  be  tough  from  age. 

Mutton  is  not  so  nutritious  as  beef,  but  it  is  more  easily  digested,  and  for  this 
reason  it  is  better  for  dyspeptics.  Mutton  broth  is  very  valuable  for  persons  suf- 
fering from  dysentery  or  diarrhoea. 

All  parts  of  the  sheep  known  as  joints  are  roasted;  the  neck  and  leg  are,  however,  fre- 
quently boiled.  The  "haunch  is  a  favorite  joint  and  so  is  the  saddle,  From  the  loin,  chops 
are  cut;  cutlets  are  also  cut  from  the  thick  end,  and  sometimes  from  a  part  of  the  neck  or 
fleshy  part  of  the  leg.  In  proportion  to  the  flesh,  there  is  less  fat  and  bone  in  the  leg  than 
in  any  other  part  of  the  animal,  so  that  it  is  the  best  to  buy. 

Lamb. — In  this  the  flesh  should  be  of  a  f  aintish  white  in  color,  smooth  and 
firm  to  the  touch.  The  fat  should  be  white  and  light  in  appearance.  If  lamb 
has  a  greenish  or  yellowish  cast,  it  is  stale  and  unfit  to  eat.    If  the  veins  in  the 


28  MARKETING. 

neck-part  show  up  blue  and  prominent  in  the  lean,  it  is  an  excellent  indication 
that  the  meat  is  good.  Lamb  is  not  nearly  as  nutritious  as  mutton,  and  is  not 
suited  for  people  of  weak  digestive  power.  The  flavor  is  delicate,  which  is  its 
chief  attraction.    The  tissue  is  soft,  gelatinous  and  watery. 

Lamb  should  be  fresh,  and  not  bought  long  before  being  used.  It  is  usually  roasted, 
although  the  leg  is  often  boiled  when  in  season.  The  best  and  cheapest  part  for  stews  is  the 
breast.  If  the  flesh  of  lamb  is  pale  and  flabby,  it  is  either  from  an  unhealthy  animal,  or  it 
was  deprived  of  food  and  water  for  some  time  before  being  killed,  and  in  either  case  the 
meat  is  unwholesome.  Where  economy  is  a  consideration,  lamb  should  not  be  bought  before 
it  is  5  months  old. 

Pork. — If  the  rind  of  pork  is  tough  and  thick,  then  it  is  old;  if  thin  and 
springy,  then  it  is  young.  In  the  best  pork  the  meat  is  fine  and  close  grained, 
without  a  superabundance  of  fat.  The  lean  will  almost  break  if  pinched  between 
the  thumb  and  finger.  The  skin  can  be  indented  readily  with  the  fingers.  The 
fat  should  be  white,  smooth  and  firm.  If  the  meat  is  clammy,  or  smells  offen- 
sively, it  is  tainted  and  should  on  no  account  be  bought.  Small  kernels  in  the  fat 
indicate  disease.    Buy  good  pork  or  none  at  all. 

In  a  sucking  pig  the  tongue  should  be  clean,  the  flesh  pinkish  in  hue,  and  the 
skin  clear  and  fresh. 

Bacon  and  ham  are  more  easily  digested  than  fat  pork,  and  so  form  an  ex- 
ception to  the  rule  that  fresh  meat  can  be  digested  more  easily  than  dried.  The 
large  amount  of  fat  in  good  bacon  makes  it  a  good  heat  producer  in  cold 
weather. 

The  roasting  parts  of  the  pig  are  the  leg,  loin  and  spare  rib  (a  favorite  piece).  Although 
the  leg  can  be,  and  is  often  boiled,  the  remaining  portions  are  usually  salted,  the  leg  form- 
ing a  ham,  and  the  sides  flitches  of  bacon. 

Ham  and  Bacon. — In  selecting  a  ham,  run  a  knife  into  it  close  to  the  bone;  if 
the  blade  when  withdrawn  has  an  agreeable  odor,  the  ham  is  good;  if  it  has  a 
greasy  appearance  and  an  offensive  smell,  the  ham  is  bad.  Bacon  maybe  tested 
in  the  same  manner;  the  lean  should  be  red  and  adhere  closely  to  the  bone;  the 
fat  should  be  firm  and  pinky  white.  When  bacon  looks  yellowish,  it  is  rusty  and 
not  fit  to  use.  The  rind  should  be  thin.  Large  bacon  is  almost  always  coarse, 
and  lean  bacon  is  seldom  good. 

Sweet-breads. — In  selecting  these  for  the  table,  choose  those  which  are  white, 
firm  and  plump,  and  which  come  from  the  throat  of  the  calf.  There  is  another 
kind  which  is  really  the  pancreas,  and  which  is  only  suitable  for  chopped  dishes, 
like  croquettes,  etc. 

Tongue. — This  should  be  thick  and  firm,  and  on  the  under  side  there  should 
be  considerable  fat.  The  tongue  most  used  is  that  of  the  beef.  That  of  the 
lamb  can  be  bought  both  pickled  and  fresh,  and  that  of  the  sheep,  pig  and  calf 
can  all  be  bought;  calf's  tongue  is  usually  considered  the  best. 

Venison. — In  this,  the  fat  should  be  clear,  bright  and  thick.  If  the  cleft  of  the 
haunch  is  smooth  and  close,  it  is  young;  if  close  and  rough,  it  is  old.  It  can  be 
tested  by  the  smell,  like  ham,  by  passing  a  knife  along  the  bone  of  the  haunch  or 
shoulder.    The  flesh  will  look  darkish  if  it  is  not  new  and  sweet. 

Sausage. — Even  when  the  outside  appears  all  right,  bad  sausage  when  broken 
is  apt  to  show  small  cavities,  and  be  sticky  and  soft  inside;  if  these  signs  appear, 
or  if  there  are  yellow  or  greenish  spots,  or  if  it  tastes  rancid  or  smells  putrid,  it 
should  not  be  eaten. 

BUYING  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

In  buying  poultry,  3  things  are  necessary — it  should  be  young,  in  good 
condition  and  fresh.  In  selecting  poultry,  choose  that  which  is  full  grown  but 
not  old.  The  safest  rule  in  choosing  poultry  is  to  feel  of  the  breast  bone;  when 
young,  it  will  be  soft  and  pliable  like  gristle;  when  old,  it  will  be  tough.  Also 
when  young  and  fresh  killed,  the  skin  is  thin  and  tender,  the  joints  not  very  stiff, 
and  the  eyes  full  and  bright.  The  freshness  of  a  bird  can  be  discovered  more  by 
smell  than  anything  else;  a  good  buyer  would  prefer  a  bird  untrussed.  A  bird 
should  be  roasted  rather  than  boiled  if  there  is  any  doubt  about  its  freshness. 
No  food  should  be  given  poultry  for  about  24  hours  before  it  is  killed,  that  there 
may  be  no  food  in  the  crop  to  sour. 

In  fowls,  the  light  meats  are  not  so  highly  flavored  as  the  dark,  nor  are  they  bo 
rich  in  nitrogen,  but  they  are  more  easily  digested. 


MARKETING.  29 

Turkeys.—  See  that  the  legs  are  smooth  and  black,  the  spurs  short,  breast  full, 
and  neck  long.  The  eyes  should  be  bright  and  full,  and  the  feet  flexible.  If  the 
eyes  are  sunk  and  the  feet  dry,  the  bird  is  stale. 

Chickens. — See  that  the  feet  are  flexible,  the  skin  soft  and  moist,  and  the  eyes 
bright  and  full.     If  the  eyes  are  sunk,  and  the  feet  dry,  it  is  stale. 

Fowls. — In  a  young  fowl  the  spurs  are  short  and  the  legs  smooth.  If  the  legs 
and  combs  are  limber,  it  is  young;  if  those  are  rough  and  stiff,  it  is  old.  When 
fresh,  the  vent  is  close  and  dark.  In  an  old  fowl  the  skin  looks  purplish,  and  the 
neck  and  feet  are  long  and  thin. 

Geese. — A  young  goose  has  a  yellowish  bill  and  flexible  feet,  with  few  hairs  on 
either.  If  the  bill  and  feet  are  reddish,  with  many  hairs,  the  bird  is  old;  if  the 
feet  are  dry,  it  is  stale. 

Ducks. — These,  both  wild  and  tame,  when  young  have  flexible  feet;  the  belly 
should  be  thick  and  firm,  and  the  skin  clear. 

Crame. — In  selecting  this,  pluck  a  few  feathers  from  the  under  part  of  the  leg; 
if  the  skin  is  not  discolored,  the  bird  is  fresh.  M.  Soyer  says,  "  The  age  may  be 
known  by  placing  the  thumb  into  the  beak,  and  holding  the  bird  up  with  the  jaw 
part;  if  that  breaks, it  is  young;  if  not,  it  is  old,  and  requires  keeping  longer  before 
cooking."  All  old  fowls  may  likewise  be  told  by  their  hard,  rough  or  dry  feet. 
Wild  game  has  a  peculiar  gamey  smell,  but  it  can  readily  be  distinguished  from 
that  of  tainted  meat. 

There  is  no  bird  whose  flesh  is  poisonous  in  itself,  or  which  may  not  in  case  of  necessity 
be  eaten.  Persons  have  been  poisoned  by  eating  quail  in  the  spring,  but  it  was  caused  by 
the  buds  of  the  mountain  laurel  which  the  bird  had  eaten. 

Partridges. — These,  if  young,  will  have  black  bills  and  yellow  legs;  if  old,  white 
bills  and  blue  legs. 

Hares  and  Babbits. — These  when  fresh  killed  are  stiff  and  whitish;  when 
stale,  the  body  is  limber  and  the.  flesh  darker.  When  young,  the  ears  will  tear 
like  brown  paper.  In  both,  the  claws  should  be  smooth  and  sharp.  In  a  young 
hare,  the  cleft  in  the  lip  is  narrow,  and  the  claws  are  readily  cracked  if  turned 
sideways. 

Squirrels. — These  are  judged  much  like  rabbits,  but  the  flesh  is  always  more 
or  less  dark;  when  young,  it  will  be  smooth  and  firm;  if  old,  it  will  be  limber  and 
flimsy. 

Killing  Fowls,  etc. — Fowls,  rabbits,  and  some  other  animals,  being  sometimes 
purchased  alive,  and  the  beauty  of  their  appearance  when  dressed  depending  in 
some  measure  on  their  being  killed  in  a  proper  manner,  it  is  desirable  that  a 
cook  should  know  how  to  kill  them  expeditiously  and  neatly. 

Kill  a  turkey  by  passing  a  small  penknife  into  the  mouth  and  cutting  it  below 
the  tongue;  then  pass  the  knife  up  through  the  head  into  the  brain.  After  this, 
hang  it  up  by  the  legs  to  let  it  bleed  freely.  All  smaller  fowls  are  killed  by 
pulling  and  dislocating  the  neck  at  the  head.  In  killing  geese  and  ducks,  com- 
mence by  tying  a  string  around  the  beak,  then  pinion  the  wings  over  the  back  to 
prevent  fluttering;  then  make  an  incision  or  cut  across  the  upper  part  of  the 
neck,  close  to  the  head,  and  suspend  by  the  feet  to  bleed  freely.  Kill  a  rabbit  by 
holding  it  by  the  hind  legs,  letting  the  head  hang  down,  and  give  it  a  smart  blow 
with  the  edge  of  the  hand  behind  the  ears.  All  birds  should  be  kept  for  a  short 
time  after  being  killed  with  their  feathers  on,  and  not  drawn  till  they  are  to  be 
used.  Furred  animals  should  not  be  skinned  until  they  are  to  be  used,  but 
should  be  paunched  as  soon  as  they  are  cold. 

BUYING  FISH  AND  SHELL-FISH. 

In  selecting  fish,  choose  those  which  are  firm  and  thick,  with  bright,  promi- 
nent eyes,  the  fins , hard  and  stiff,  the  scales  brilliant,  and  the  gills  bright  red; 
such  fish  are  fresh.  When  stale,  the  eyes  sink  and  look  flat  and  dull,  the  fins  be- 
come soft  and  flabby,  the  gills  dark,  the  scales  dim,  and  the  fish  grows  soft.  If 
you  find  the  eyes  of  a  fish  gouged  out,  be  sure  the  fish  is  stale,  and  the  dealer 
dishonest.  Dress  fish  at  once,  sprinkle  on  salt,  and  use  them  the  same  day  if 
possible;  put  them  over  ice  in  warm  weather,  or  corn  them  for  the  next  day. 
The  offensive  odor  of  stale  fish  is  one  of  the  best  tests.  All  fish  should  be  cooked 
at  once  after  being  packed  in  ice,  for  they  will  become  soft  and  lose  their  flavor 
quickly  afterwards. 


30  MARKETING. 

Occasionally  fish  are  brought  to  market,  which  are  killed  by  the  refuse  thrown  into  the 
water  by  large  manufacturing  establishments;  such  fish  will  have  a  foul  odor,  and  the 
flesh  will  be  soft,  spongy  and  yellowish.  Never  eat  fish  which  are  caught  in  putrid 
water.  If,  when  boiling  fish,  the  water  blackens  silver,  it  is  caused  by  hydrogen  sulphide 
(the  same  gas  found  in  bad  eggs).  It  comes  from  putrefaction,  and'  the  fish  should  be 
thrown  away.    A  decomposing  fish  has  a  pale  look,  and  a  bluish  belly. 

The  amount  of  nourishment  contained  in  fish  varies  with  the  species,  but  as  a  rule  they 
are  less  satisfying  and  less  stimulating  than  butcher's  meat,  though  some  of  the  red-fleshed 
fish  nearly  approach  it.  Fish  oil  is  more  digestible  than  any  other  kind  of  fat,  and  therefore 
cod-liver  oil  is  given  to  invalids.  Dr.  Pavy  says:  "The  quality  of  fish  as  an  article  of  food 
is  influenced  by  the  act  of  spawning,  and  presents  considerable  variations  at  different 
periods.  It  is  just  previous  to  spawning  that  the  animal  is  in  its  highest  state  of  perfec- 
tion. .  .  During  the  process  of  spawning,  its  store  of  fatty  matter  is  drawn  upon  and  it  be- 
comes poor,  thin,  watery  and  flabby.  It  is  now  said  to  be  'out  of  season'  and  requires  time 
to  arrive  in  condition  again.  In  fish  like  the  cod,  where  the  fatty  matter  accumulates 
specially  in  the  liver,  this  organ  presents  a  most  striking  difference  in  volume  and  condi- 
tion before  and  after  spawning;  whilst  in  such  as  the  salmon,  herring,  etc.,  where  the  fat  is 
dispersed  among  the  flesh,  it  is  the  body  which  affords  the  chief  evidence  of  change.  As 
salmon  enters  the  rivers  from  the  sea  for  the  purpose  of  depositing  its  spawn,  it  is  plump, 
and  well  provided  with  fat.  On  its  return,  the  contrast  in  its  condition  is  very  great.  It  is 
now  so  exhausted  and  thin,  as  to  be  looked  upon  as  unfit  for  food."  Fish  out  of  season  is 
never  cheap,  even  if  bought  at  a  low  price. 

Cod,  when  edible,  will  have  very  red  gills,  the  body  thick  at  the  neck,  the  flesh 
white  and  firm,  and  eyes  still  bright.  Shad,  if  good,  are  white  and  thick,  eyes 
bright,  gills  red,  body  stiff  and  firm.  In  mackerel  look  for  the  same  points,  but 
with  more  care,  as  mackerel  is  so  tender  that  it  does  not  carry  or  keep  so  well 
unsalted,  as  other  fish.  Striped  bass  depend  on  being  put  on  the  fire  as  soon  as 
possible  after  being  killed;  if  the  eyes  are  sunken  and  the  gills  pale,  they  have 
been  too  long  out  of  the  water.  Trout  should  have  the  gills  red  and  hard  to 
open,  the  eyes  lustrous,  and  the  body  stiff.  To  blue  fish  and  many  other  vari- 
eties apply  the  same  rules  as  for  striped  bass.  In  choosing  eels,  the  fat  ones  are 
best.  They  should  be  alive  just  before  being  cooked,  as  they  lose  their  sweetness 
if  long  kept.  In  selecting  sturgeon,  choose  those  which  are  white,  with  tender 
skin,  blue  veins  and  even  grain. 

Oysters,  crabs  and  all  shellfish  can  be  judged  only  by  the  smell  as  to  their 
freshness.  Oysters  should  close  firmly  on  the  knife  when  being  opened;  when 
they  can  be  opened  easily,  they  are  good  for  nothing.  The  sooner  they  are  used 
after  being  opened,  the  better. 

Lobsters,  prawns  and  shrimps  should  be  very  stiff  after  they  are  boiled,  and 
the  tails  turn  far  inward.  When  they  are  soft  and  watery,  they  are  not  fit  to  eat. 
Lobsters  should  be  alive,  or  else  boiled  before  being  offered  for  sale;  they  are 
black  when  alive,  and  red  when  boiled.  In  a  lobster,  when  fresh,  the  tail,  if 
straightened,  will  spring  back  into  position.  The  male  lobster  is  best,  unless 
required  for  sauces,  etc.;  then  the  hen  is  best,  on  account  of  the  spawn  or  coral. 
Lobsters  and  crabs,  when  good,  ought  to  be  heavy  for  their  size. 

Turtles  or  terrapin  should  be  bought  alive. 

BUYING   VEGETABLES. 

These  should  be  procured  as  fresh  as  possible,  and  the  good  housekeeper  will 
endeavor  to  keep  her  table  supplied  all  through  the  year  with  a  good  variety. 
Many  varieties,  like  potatoes,  cabbages,  etc.,  can  be  best  bought  in  the  fall  and 
stored  in  the  cellar.  Others  may  be  canned  at  home,  or  bought  in  cans  when 
needed.  Those  to  buy,  are  potatoes,  turnips,  cabbages,  squashes,  onions,  beets, 
parsnips,  carrots,  and  artichokes.  We  elsewhere  explain  about  keeping  vegeta- 
bles and  also  canning  them.  Vegetables  should  be  ripe  when  purchased,  and 
they  are  best  when  in  full  season  and  in  greatest  plenty,  so  that  they  are  within 
the  reach  of  those  of  moderate  means.  Most  early,  artificially  raised  vegetables, 
like  peas,  potatoes,  etc.,  may  be  esteemed  as  rarities;  but  they  are  less  valuable 
as  foods. 

Asparagus. — In  buying  this,  see  that  the  heads  are  full  and  green;  when  the 
head  is  not  full,  and  the  color  is  light,  it  is  not  desirable. 

Beans. — Shell  beans  are  dry  and  smooth  when  fresh;  if  they  appear  sticky 
and  dull,  they  are  old.  String  beans  should  be  green,  break  crisply,  and  the 
bean  should  be  justbeginningto  form  in  the  pod;  if  they  look  yellow  or  wilted, 
they  are  not  fresh,  nor  desirable. 

Brussels  Sprouts. — Select  those  which  are  fresh  and  crisp,  and  which  are  com- 


MARKETING.  31 

pact  and  firm,  like  cabbage  heads;  loose  heads  are  undesirable.  Strip  off  the 
outer  leaves  and  soak  in  cold,  salted  water  an  hour  or  so  before  cooking. 

Cauliflower. — In  buying  this,  see  that  the  leaves  are  green  and  fresh,  and  the 
head  a  whitish  cream  color.  If  there  are  dark  spots  on  the  head,  and  the  leaves 
are  wilted,  it  is  bad. 

Celery. — See  that  the  stalks  break  off  crisply,  and  that  the  heads  are  solid  and 
white.  It  is  apt  to  be  tough  and  stringy  after  spring  opens,  and  bitter  before  the 
coming  of  frost.     It  is  best  during  the  winter. 

Corn. — Green  corn  should  be  milky  and  tender,  and  the  ears  should  be  well 
filled  out;  if  it  is  hard,  and  the  kernels  yellowish  or  straw  color,  it  is  too  old,  and 
even  long  boiling  will  not  make  it  good. 

Cucumbers. — If  these  are  intended  for  salad,  see  that  they  are  firm  and  green; 
if  for  pickling,  have  them  small;  (they  are  then  called  gherkins);  if  for  cooking, 
they  may  be  large  and  yellowed  a  little  without  harm. 

Dandelions. — The  cultivated  are  better  than  the  wild;  those  are  good  in  the 
spring,  but  are  apt  to  be  tough  by  the  last  of  May. 

Egg-Plant.  Buy  that  which  is  not  quite  ripe  and  which  is  firm.  The  best  is 
oval  in  shape,  large  and  purple. 

Lettuce. — In  buying  this,  see  that  the  leaves  are  green,  fresh  and  crisp;  keep  it 
until  used  in  a  refrigerator,  on  ice  if  possible,  or  in  a  cold  place  at  least. 

Mushrooms. — These  are  best  bought  from  reliable  dealers  only.  In  gather- 
ing them,  they  should  be  carefully  distinguished  from  poisonous  toadstools;  con- 
founding the  two  has  caused  many  deaths. 

Okra. — See  that  the  pods  are  green  and  crisp.  Although  its  use  was  formerly 
confined  mainly  to  the  South,  it  is  becoming  more  popular  at  the  North  every 
year.    It  can  be  purchased  nearly  all  the  year  round. 

Peas. — In  buying  these,  see  that  the  pods  feel  cool  and  dry  and  look  green.  If 
the  pods  have  turned  light  or  are  spotted,  they  are  old  or  not  freshly  picked,  and 
are  not  good. 

Potatoes  having  large  deep  eyes  cut  to  waste.  A  rough  skin  is  said  to  indi- 
cate a  mealy  potato,  and  a  smooth  skin  a  waxy  one,  but  that  is  not  a  sure  guide, 
and  the  best  way  is  to  boil  a  sample  and  watch  the  result.  Small  potatoes  are 
seldom  economical,  even  at  a  low  price,  the  waste  in  peeling  being  so  great. 
Medium  sized  potatoes  are  generally  the  best  to  buy,  choosing  in  preference 
those  with  small  eyes.  Small  potatoes,  after  being  well  washed,  may  be  boiled 
with  the  skins  on,  and  peeled  when  cold  for  hash. 

Spinach. — In  buying  this,  see  that  it  is  green  in  color  and  crisp. 

Tomatoes. — For  table  use,  get  those  which  are  red  and  ripe,  smooth,  medium- 
sized  ones  being  best;  for  pickling,  green  ones  may  be  bought. 

Sweet  Herbs.  The  good  housewife  will  find  it  convenient  to  keep  on  hand 
such  herbs  as  thyme,  sweet  marjoram  bay  leaves  and  sage.  A  few  cents  will  buy 
a  bunch  of  each,  and  they  should  be  kept  dry  and  tied  together,  and  in  a  box  or 
paper  bag.  Parsley  and  mint  are  used  green.  The  former  is  easily  raised  where 
it  cannot  be  readily  bought. 

BUYING  GROCERIES,  ETC. 

Butter. — In  buying  butter,  taste  it  and  smell  it.  If  streaky  or  spotted,  or 
with  a  reddish,  speckly  look,  it  is  not  good,  and  when  cut  with  a  knife,  should  it 
appear  milky,  it  is  a  sign  that  it  will  not  keep  good  long,  for  it  has  not  been 
washed  properly  and  it  will  waste.  If  it  smells  sour,  it  has  not  been  sufficiently 
washed  from  the  buttermilk;  if  it  is  veiny  or  open,  it  has  probably  had  an  in- 
ferior kind  worked  in.  To  choose  salt  butter,  plunge  a  knife  into  it;  if,  when 
drawn  out,  the  blade  smells  rancid  or  unpleasant,  the  butter  is  bad. 

Milk. — In  our  article  on  the  adulteration  of  food,  we  speak  of  the  tests  for 
milk.  Where  a  supply  of  really  pure  and  fresh  milk  is  not  available,  the  preserved 
milk  will  be  invaluable.  It  is  made  by  evaporating  nearly  the  whole  of  the  water 
in  the  milk,  from  which  it  is  prepared,  and  adding  sugar. 

Cheese. — Select  that,  which,  when  rubbed  between  the  fingers,  melts  and 
seems  smooth.  Poor  cheese  is  crumbly  and  dry.  Prof.  Vaughn  of  Ann  Arbor, 
Mich.,  says  that  cheese  which  will  instantly  and  intensely  redden  blue  litmus 
paper,  should  never  be  eaten.  The  test  is  easily  made;  if  the  cheese  is  dry,  a  bit 
of  it  should  be  moistened,  and  the  litmus  paper  then  applied. 


32  MARKETING. 

Eggs. — In  choosing  eggs,  apply  the  tongue  to  the  large  end;  if  it  feels  warm, 
the  egg  is  fresh.  Another  simple  test  for  eggs  is  to  thoroughly  dissolve  2  oz.  of 
salt  in  1  pint  of  water.  An  egg,  dropped  into  this,  if  freshly  laid,  goes  to  the 
bottom;  if  1  day  old,  it  rises  a  little;  if  3  days  old,  it  floats  in  the  liquid;  if  more 
than  5  days  old,  it  projects  above  the  surface,  projecting  more  and  more  as  by 
increased  age  the  water  inside  evaporates  through  the  pores  of  the  shell,  and  air 
enters  and  takes  its  place.  Before  breaking  an  egg,  hold  it  before  a  gas  or  candle 
flame  and  try  and  look  through  it;  if  clear,  it  is  fresh;  if  cloudy,  it  is  stale;  if  any 
dark  spots  appear,  it  is  bad.  No  egg  should  be  used  for  culinary  purposes  with 
the  slightest  taint  about  it. 

Coffee  and  Tea. — These  are  best  bought  in  considerable  quantities,  as  a  saving 
of  several  cents  a  pound  may  be  obtained,  if  a  half  chest  of  tea  or  a  bag  of  coffee 
is  bought  at  a  time.  (See  what  we  say  about  their  adulteration  in  our  article  on 
theAdulterationof  Foods.) 

Barley. — Barley  flower  does  not  keep  well;  it  is  apt  to  acquire  a  hot,  unpleas- 
ant taste.     Buy  little  at  a  time,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Barley  is  a  native  of  Western  Asia,  and  has  been  cultivated  from  remote  antiquity.  It 
is  hardy  and  can  be  cultivated  over  a  very  wide  range  of  climate.  It  has  too  little  gluten 
to  make  good  bread.  It  is  rich  in  phosphates,  and  though  less  nutritious  than  wheat,  it  is 
lighter  and  less  stimulating,  and  in  the  form  of  gruel  makes  a  soothing  drink  for  invalids. 
It  is  rich  in  starch  and  contains  some  mucilage.  Pearl  barley  is  barley  steamed,  and  the 
fibrous  coats  removed  and  the  grains  rounded  and  polished.  Patent  barley  is  pearl  barley 
ground  to  flour. 

Buckwheat  Meal. — A  small  quantity  of  this  at  a  time  is  enough  to  buy,  as  it 
does  not  keep  very  well. 

Buckwheat  is  a  native  of  Persia,  and  is  killed  by  frost.  It  is  rich  in  starch  and  albumen, 
and  its  ash  is  rich  in  potash  and  lime.  The  pancakes  are  not  suited  to  those  of  weak  diges- 
tion. Their  continuous  use  gives  rise  to  an  itching  of  the  skin  and  an  eruption,  the  only 
specific  for  which,  is  to  stop  eating  them  for  a  time.  The  albumenous  substances  found  in 
buckwheat  differ  materially  from  those  found  in  the  cereals,  and  its  food  value  is  less  than 
that  of  wheat,  oats  or  rye. 

Corn  or  Indian  Meal. — The  common  kind  is  best  bought  in  small  quantities 
as  it  does  not  keep  well;  the  granulated,  however,  will  keep  for  any  length  of 
time,  and  will  be  preferred  to  the  other  if  once  used.  When  decomposition  be- 
gins in  cornmeal,  it  has  a  rancid  odor,  and  a  little  of  it  placed  on  moistened  blue 
litmus  paper  (to  be  had  at  any  drug  store)  will  turn  it  red,  while  good  meal  does 
not  affect  the  color. 

The  fineness  of  grinding  cornmeal  affects  the  bread  made  from  it,  fine  meal  making  a 
compact,  and  the  coarse  a  more  open  and  spongy  bread.  Cornmeal  should  always  be  thor- 
oughly cooked  before  being  eaten;  it  is  owing  to  its  improper  preparation  that  its  reputation 
for  indigestibility  is  due.  It  should  be  perfectly  sweet  and  dry,  and  if  at  all  "heated"  or 
musty,  it  is  entirely  unfit  for  human  consumption.  Buy  it  in  small  quantities,  and  keep  it 
in  closed  tins  or  a  tightly  closing  jar,  and  in  a  dry  place.  For  further  particulars  regard- 
ing corn,  see  "Vegetables."  Samp  is  the  whole  grains  hulled.  Hominy  is  corn  hulled  and 
coarsely  broken. 

Cracked  Wheat. — This  will  keep  a  long  time.  The  crushed  cooks  the  quickest, 
but  the  cut  looks  best  when  served. 

Flour. — In  buying  this,  the  best  is  the  cheapest.  It  is  best  to  buy  at  least  a 
barrel  at  a  time,  as  it  is  not  economy  to  buy  in  small  quantities.  There  are  many 
brands  equally  good.  The  amount  of  water  which  flour  will  absorb  is  a  far  bet- 
ter test  of  its  quality  than  its  color,  because  flour  containing  an  abundance  of 
gluten  will  absorb  more  water  than  that  which  contains  a  larger  amount  of 
starch;  such  flour  will  make  more  bread,  and  is  therefore  better  to  buy.  Gluten  is 
a  tenacious,  colorless  or  greyish  substance,  and  was  known  in  ancient  times  as 
birdlime.  Starchy  flour  lacks  adhesive  properties;  it  crumbles  in  the  hand,  and 
may  be  blown  about  easily,  while  that  containing  a  good  amount  of  gluten,  when 
pressed  in  the  hand,  remains  compact  and  retains  the  imprint  of  the  lines  of  the 
skin,  while  it  has  a  creamy  white  tint.  Don't  buy  flour  of  a  bluish  white  tinge. 
A  good  test  for  flour  is  to  put  some  in  the  hollow  of  the  hand,  make  a  hole  in  the 
center,  and  add  enough  cold  water  to  form  a  soft  dough;  if  the  flour  is  of  good 
quality  and  fresh,  the  dough  when  pulled  out  will  not  break  easily,  but  will  be 
tenacious,  will  harden  in  the  air,  and  will  so  remain;  if,  however,  on  working  the 
dough,  it  sticks  to  the  fingers,  softens,  and  on  being  pulled  out,  is  brittle  and 
breaks  off  short,  the  quality  is  poor.  If  there  is  any  strong  or  unpleasant  odor,  it 
has  begun  to  spoil  and  is  worthless.    Flour  rich  in  gluten  takes  longer  to  rise 


MARKETING.  33 

than  that  containing  more  starch,  but  it  makes  better  bread.    That  containing 
more  starch  can  be  used  for  pastry. 

Wheat  flour  is  preferable  to  any  of  the  other  great  vegetable  products  on  which  men 
chiefly  live,  since  it  is  a  far  more  agreeable  food  than  maize  (Indian  corn)  and  far  more  nu- 
tritious than  rice.  It  is  probable  that  the  health  and  bodily  vigor  of  the  inhabitants  of 
temperate  climates  are  largely  attributable  to  the  extensive  use  of  this  food.  Wheat 
flour  contains  the  following  substances:  starch,  dextrin,  cellulose,  sugar,  albumen,  gliadin 
or  gluten,  mucin,  fibrin,  cerealin,  fat,  mineral  matters  and  water.  The  first  4  substances 
(the  carbohydrates)  form  nearly  %  of  the  entire  weight  of  the  flour.  The  gluten  and  other 
albumenoids  form  from  10  to  15$,  and  the  oils  about  1%.  The  outer  covering  of  wheat  is  a 
layer  of  almost  pure  silica,  which  is  perfectly  indigestible.  In  the  inside  layers  of  the  cov- 
ering are  found  cerealin  and  gluten,  and  the  starch  and  some  gluten  are  found  in  the  center. 
The  composition  and  value  of  the  bran  is  now  better  understood  than  formerly.  Coarse 
bran  containing  the  outer  layer  of  silica  is  valueless.  This  silica  is  indigestible  and 
remains  as  a  foreign  body  in  the  bowels,  causing  irritation  and  diarrhoea,  and  so  hurries 
the  food  along  the  alimentary  canal  before  the  nutritive  elements  can  be  absorbed,  while 
fine  flour  is  nearly  all  assimilated.  The  inner  layers  of  the  sheath  contain  gluten,  some 
starch,  and  the  cerealin  which  is  an  aid  to  digestion,  as  it  acts  like  disatase  in  the  conver- 
sion of  starchy  food  into  sugar.  The  finest  white  flour  is  derived  chiefly  from  the  central 
parts  of  the  kernel,  whilst  all  the  succeeding  portions  vary  in  color  according  to  the  de- 
grees of  admixture  of  the  different  layers  of  the  skin.  Good  seconds  flour  is  doubtless  the 
most  nutritious  and  cheapest  to  buy,  although  it  does  not  produce  the  whitest  bread;  but 
to  sacrifice  nourishment  to  mere  appearance  is  not  wise.  For  the  poor,  it  is  the  most  eco- 
nomical. 

Pastry  flour,  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  is  also  known  as  old  process  or  St.  Louis  flour.  It  is 
highly  sifted  and  contains  more  stai'ch  and  less  gluten  than  the  "seconds,"  but  it  makes 
excellent  pastry  and  cake.  Although  bread  made  from  it  contains  less  of  the  gluten 
(which  is  the  principal  albumenoid  element  of  flour)  than  is  obtained  from  the  other  flour, 
that  defect  can  be  remedied  by  obtaining  more  of  the  albumenoid  element  in  some  other 
food;  but  many  families  will  find  it  best  to  have  some  of  both  kinds  of  flour  on  hand,  one 
for  bread,  and  the  other  for  cake  and  pastry. 

Semolina  (also  called  Semou  le  or  Semola).— This  consists  of  particles  of  wheatwhich, in- 
stead of  being  ground  fine  like  flour,  is  reduced  to  grains,  varying  in  size  from  grains  of  sand 
to  small  millet.  As  the  gluten  is  retained  it  is  nutritious.  It  is  used  for  making  puddings, 
thickening  soups,  etc.  It  is  more  used  in  France  than  in  any  other  country,  and  in  Paris  a 
kind  of  bread  is  made  of  the  coarser  kinds  and  called  gruau. 

Graham. — A  good  deal  that  is  sold  is  made  from  poor  flour  mixed  with  bran; 
the  best  is  made  from  good  wheat  without  being  sifted.  Keep  it  in  a  dry,  cool 
place  and  it  will  keep  for  years. 

The  old  idea  that  graham  flour  is  good  for  those  suffering  from  constipation  is  no  longer 
entertained.  The  laxative  quality  is  caused  purely  by  the  mechanical  irritation  of  the  in- 
testines, caused  by  the  smal  1  particles  of  silica  (really  like  powdered  glass)  contained  in  the 
outer  covering  of  the  wheat.  The  irritation  thus  caused  is  sometimes  dangerous.  If  a 
cathartic  is  needed,  powdered  glass  is  not  the  best  thing  to  use.  The  bowel  thus  irritated, 
rushes  the  food  along  and  finally  ejects  it  before  all  its  nutriment  is  assimilated,  so  that 
much  is  wasted.  The  poorer  grades  of  graham  flour  are  not  fit  to  use.  A  moderate  amount 
of  the  best  grades  may  be  used,  but  is  not  suited  for  a  steady  diet. 

Oatmeal. — It  is  best  to  have  this  as  fresh  as  possible,  so  purchase  little  at  a 
time.    The  coarser  keeps  better  than  the  finely  ground. 

Oats  grow  better  in  cool,  moist  climates  than  in  those  which  are  hot  and  dry,  and  there- 
fore can  be  cultivated  in  situations  where  neither  barley  nor  wheat  can  be  raised.  The 
meal  is  less  white  than  wheat  flour,  and  is  chiefly  eaten  in  the  form  of  porridge.  Owing  to 
the  absence  of  gluten,  oatmeal  cannot,  like  wheat  flour,  be  made  into  light,  porous  bread. 
In  many  places,  notably  in  Scotland,  oatmeal  forms  an  important  food  for  the  people,  and 
it  admittedly  produces  a  healthy  and  vigorous  race  of  men.  The  peculiar  value  of  oatmeal 
is  owing  to  the  large  amount  of  fat  in  oats.  It  is  healthy  and  nutritious,  and  merits  an  ex- 
tensive use,  especially  among  working  people  and  children,  but  some  people  with  weak  di- 
gestive powers  find  it  irritating. 

Groats  or  grits  are  oats  deprived  of  their  outer  husks.  Embden  Groats  are 
the  same,  broken  into  smaller  pieces. 

Ryemeal. — As  this  does  not  keep  well,  it  is  best  to  purchase  it  in  small  quan- 
tities.   For  bread  and  muffins  the  meal  is  more  desirable  than  the  flour. 

The  native  country  of  rye  is  unknown.  Rye  flour  is  little  used  now  for  making  bread, 
except  when  mixed  with  wheat  flour.  It  is  inferior  to  wheat  flour  in  nutritive  properties, 
flavor  and  digestibility. 

Hominy. — -The  highest  grade  is  the  best,  and  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Macaroni. — This,  when  good,  has  a  yellowish  tinge,  and  when  cooked,  it  does 
not  break  or  burst. 

Lard. — See  that  this  is  white,  free  from  any  unpleasant  smell,  and  solid. 
Leaf  lard  is  best,  and  is  made  from  the  leaf  fat  taken  from  the  ribs  of  the  hog. 

Arrowroot. — This  is  found  in  perfectly  white  lumps  when  pure,  and  they  can 
be  crushed  readily  between  the  fingers.  If,  when  boiled  with  water  and  con- 
stantly stirred,  a  foam  appears  on  top,  it  has  been  adulterated  with  flour;  if  pure, 
there  will  be  no  foam. 


34  MARKETING. 

Almonds. — The  best  are  long  and  oval-shaped;  the  more  common  are  round 
and  flat. 

The  almond  is  the  seed  or  kernel  of  the  almond  tree,  which  resembles  the  peach,  and  is 
indigenous  to  Persia,  Syria  and  the  north  of  Africa.  The  2  most  important  kinds  are  the 
sweet  and  bitter.  The  bitter  are  used  to  flavor  confectionery,  etc.,  but  they  contain  much 
prussic  acid,  and  a  single  drop  of  the  essential  oil  will  kill  a  bird,  and  4  drops  a  dog;  these 
have  little  domestic  use.  The  sweet  are  the  only  ones  adapted  for  ordinary  use.  Although 
Considered  nourishing,  they  frequently  disagree  with  persons  of  weak  digestion,  the  husks 
being  especially  indigestible,  so  that  they  should  always  be  blanched.  Eaten  in  large 
Quantities,  they  are  purgative. 

Cocoanut. — As  there  is  danger  in  the  summer  that  the  heat  will  sour  the 
milk,  these  should  be  purchased  carefully. 

Pistachio  nuts  are  the  fruit  of  a  tree  growing  to  the  height  of  15  or  20  feet. 
The  tree  came  originally  from  Asia,  but  now  grows  plentifully  in  the  southern 
parts  of  Europe.  The  nuts  need  to  be  blanched  like  almonds.  They  are  costly, 
and  as  they  much  resemble  the  almond  in  flavor,  the  latter  is  often  substituted 
for  them  in  flavorings,  etc. 

Nutmegs. — Prick  these  with  a  pin;  if  oil  runs  out,  they  are  good. 

Nutmeg  is  the  kernel  of  the  fruit  of  an  evergreen  tree  now  cultivated  in  the  West  India 
Islands,  etc.  It  contains  about  6%  of  a  pungent  essential  oil.  It  is  aromatic,  stimulant,  and 
contains  narcotic  properties. 

Raisins. — The  best  way  is  to  buy  a  small  box  in  families  where  they  are  much 
used,  but  they  do  not  improve  with  age.  For  puddings  and  fine  cakes  the 
"seedless"  are  preferred,  but  the  "Valencia"  are  used  more  generally  because 
cheaper.    Loose  "Muscatels"  and  layer  raisins  are  the  best  for  table  use. 

Raisins  are  dried  grapes.  There  are  2  ways  of  preparing  them.  One  way  is  to  partially 
cut  through  the  stalk,  and  then  let  the  fruit  shrink  and  dry  on  the  vine,  by  the  heat  of  the 
sun.  The  other  method  is  to  dip  them  while  yet  on  the  vines  into  a  hot  solution  of  alkali, 
derived  from  wood  ashes,  to  which  olive  oil  and  salt  are  added.  The  oil  causes  them  to 
shrink  and  wrinkle,  and  the  alkali  removes  the  waxy  coat  which  impedes  their  drying. 
They  are  then  dried  in  the  sun  in  bunches,  on  lines  or  prepared  floors.  Muscatels  are  pre- 
pared by  the  first  method,  and  are  sometimes  called  "  raisins  of  the  sun."  Raisins  contain 
more  sugar  and  less  acid  than  gnapes,  and  are  therefore  more  nutritious,  but  eaten  to  ex- 
cess they  are  apt  to  derange  the  digestive  organs. 

Rice. — The  southern  is  better  than  the  Indian  rice,  and  cooks  more  quickly. 
It  should  be  examined  occasionally  to  see  if  insects  are  getting  into  it.  That 
which  swells  most  in  cooking  is  best. 

Salt. — This  if  good  should  be  dry,  white,  fine  and  perfectly  soluble  in  water. 
Lime  and  magnesium  are  found  in  the  coarser  kinds;  the  color  is  dark  often,  and 
it  absorbs  moisture  from  the  air.  Chloride  of  magnesium  makes  it  absorb  mois- 
ture, and  gives  it  the  bitter  taste  sometimes  noticed.  If  adulterated,  it  is  usually 
with  gypsum  (sulphate  of  lime),  which  gives  it  a  dull  look,  and  is  not  readily 
soluble  in  hot  water. 

Spices. — These  are  best  bought  in  small  quantities,  but  a  little  of  all  kinds 
should  be  kept  on  hand.     See  what  we  say  elsewhere  about  their  adulteration. 

Mixed  Spices.— Take  2  even  teaspoons  of  allspice,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  cloves,  2  heap- 
ing teaspoons  of  mace,  and  6  heaping  teaspoons  of  ground  cinnamon,  and  thoroughly  mix; 
use  for  puddings  or  dark  cakes. 

It  is  difficult  to  draw  a  very  distinct  line  between  spices  and  condiments,  but  spices  are 
generally  added  to  articles  of  food  containing  sugar,  while  condiments  are  eaten  with  meat, 
and  generally  with  any  foods  which  contain  common  salt.  Cloves  and  allspice  are,  how- 
ever, eaten  with  meat,  and  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  mace  with  sweet  foods.  Spices  can  be 
used  in  moderation,  but  if  used  in  excess,  they  irritate  the  mucous  membrane  and  are  harm- 
ful, often  causing  dyspepsia. 

Allspice  is  the  popular  name  given  to  Pimento  or  Jamaica  pepper.  It  is  the  berry  of 
a  tree  (the  Pimento,  Officinalis)  which  grows  in  the  West  Indies  and  South  America,  and  at- 
tains a  height  of  15  to  20  feet.  The  berries  are  picked  green  and  dried  in  the  sun,  when  they 
become  black.  Pimento  contains  about  4%  of  an  aromatic  pungent  oil  much  like  cloves.  It 
is  a  mild,  agreeable  and  innocent  spice. 

Angelica  is  an  aromatic  herb.  Its  roots  are  used  as  food  in  Norway.  The  stems, 
boiled  in  syrup,  yield  a  sweetmeat.  The  seeds  are  dried  and  used  for  flavoring  some 
cordials. 

Caraway.— These  seeds  are  the  fruit  of  a  biennial  plant  something  like  a  carrot.  The 
root  is  sometimes  used  like  the  carrot,  but  is  a  little  too  strong.  The  seeds  contain  an  es- 
sential oil,  and  are  used  to  flavor  cookies,  etc. 

Cassia  is  the  dried  bark  of  a  Chinese  species  of  cinnamon,  and  "Cassia  Buds"  are  the 
unripe  fruits  of  the  same  tree. 

Cinnamon.— This  is  the  inner  bark  of  a  tree,  a  species  of  the  laurel  family  which  grows 
to  the  height  of  20  or  30  feet,  and  is  found  in  Ceylon,  Java,  etc.  "  Clove  Oil"  is  dis- 
tilled from  the  leaf.  Cinnamon  contains  a  fragrant  essential  oil.  It  is  best  to  buy  it  in  the 
stick  or  roll;  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  and  sift  it  fine  for  use. 

Cloves  are  the  dried  flower  buds  of  the  clove  tree,  an  evergreen  tree  belonging  to  the 


MARKETING.  35 

myrtle  order.  Our  supplies  come  from  Zanzibar  and  the  West  Indies.  They  contain  a  con- 
siderable quantity  of  a  pungent  oil  which  is  aromatic  and  stimulapt. 

Coriander  Seeds  come  from  an  umbelliferous  annual  plant  found  in  Europe.  It  contains 
a  little  essential  oil. 

Ginger  is  the  root  of  a  plant  deriving  its  name  from  the  mountain  Ginger,  in  Hindoostan, 
of  which  it  is  a  native.  It  now  comes  chiefly  from  the  East  and  West  Indies.  It  is  dug  up  in 
January  or  February,  scraped,  washed  and  carefully  dried.  It  contains  starch,  gum,  an 
acid  resin  which  gives  its  hot  taste,  and  a  volatile  oil  which  gives  its  odor.  The  best  comes 
from  Jamaica.  There  are  2  kinds— white  and  black ;  white  is  considered  superior.  It  is  aro- 
matic, stimulant,  and  in  hot  weather  is  valuable  as  a  medicine.  It  is  less  heating  to  the 
system  than  might  be  expected  from  its  taste. 

Mace  is  the  membrane  which  surrounds  the  nutmeg.  It  contains  about  ilA%  of  an  aro- 
matic oil,  and  its  general  qualities  are  similar  to  the  nutmeg. 

Pepper.— Of  this  aromatic  berry  or  fruit  there  are  several  kinds.  The  black  is  derived 
from  berries  growing  on  vines  something  like  grapes.  It  grows  in  Malabar  and  other  places. 
Each  berry  contains  a  seed  of  a  brownish  color,  which  is  black  when  dried,  and  is  the  pep- 
per of  commerce.  White  pepper  is  made  from  black  by  steeping  the  seeds  in  lime  water  and 
then  rubbing  off  the  coats,  and  is  therefore  less  pungent  than  the  black.  Black  pepper  con- 
tains a  concrete  acrid  oil,  a  volatile  oil,  starch,  malic  and  uric  acids  and  lignine.  Small 
quantities  are  stimulant,  but  large  quantities  are  irritating.  Even  small  quantities  pro- 
duce detrimental  effects  on  inflammatory  constitutions.  Cayenne  pepper  is  made  from  the 
dried  pods  and  seeds  of  various  species  of  capsicum.  It  is  stimulating,  and  though  not  used 
as  much  as  black  pepper,  is  more  wholesome.  Chillies  is  a  Mexican  name  signifying  pods. 
When  ripe,  the  pods  are  dried  in  the  sun,  mixed  with  a  little  salt,  and  kept  in  closely  stop- 
pered bottles  for  use. 

Starch. — The  best  is  the  cheapest,  and  in  a  large  family  a  saving  may  be  made 
in  buying  by  the  quantity. 

Sugar. — The  granulated  sugar  is  less  apt  to  be  adulterated  than  the  moist 
brown  sugar.  It  is  usually  best  to  keep  some  of  the  granulated,  powdered  and 
brown  on  hand,  using  each  for  the  purpose  for  which  it  is  best  adapted.  The 
margin  of  profit  on  sugars  is  small,,  and  little  is  saved  by  buying  in  large  quan- 
tities. 

Vanilla  Beans. — The  best  come  from  Mexico.  They  should  be  fresh,  pliable 
enough  to  wind  around  one's  finger,  and  oily.  Do  not  buy  those  which  are  dry 
and  brittle,  or  which  have  been  split  open,  as  that  is  sometimes  done,  and  part  of 
the  seeds  extracted.  If  they  are  covered  with  fine  needle-like  crystals,  looking 
much  like  hoar  frost,  they  are  of  the  best  quality,  and  rich  with  aroma. 

The  vanilla  bean  is  the  fruit  of  a  plant  (an  orchid)  indigenous  to  Mexico,  Peru,  Brazil, 
etc.  The  fruit  is  cylindrical  in  shape  and  is  filled  with  small,  black,  oily  seeds.  Its  odor  is 
due  to  the  presence  of  benzoic  acid,  and  is  so  powerful  that  it  is  said  to  intoxicate  those  who 
climb  the  trees  to  gather  it.  Vanilla  is  not  suitable  for  flavoring  food  for  invalids  because 
of  its  medicinal  qualities.  It  is  a  gentle  stimulant  and  promotes  digestion.  The  Mexican 
beans  are  the  best. 

The  tonka  beans  are  the  seeds  of  the  Dipterus  odorata,  which  is  a  native  of  Guiana.  The 
odor  comes  from  a  volatile  oil  which  they  contain. 


KEEPING  PROVISIONS. 

"Economy  of  food  is  the  wealth  of  Nations." 

By  properly  caring  for  the  provisions  which  are  bought,  a  considerable  saving 
can  be  made  in  the  housekeeping  expenses,  and  every  housekeeper  should  un- 
derstand the  best  methods  of  keeping  the  various  articles  of  food,  and  should 
make  arrangements  for  taking  care  of  them.  A  good  cellar  and  store  room  are 
among  the  most  important  rooms  in  the  house,  and  no  better  investment  can  be 
made  than  to  fit  up  such  rooms  suitably.  Those  who  are  not  fortunate  enough 
to  have  rooms  of  this  kind  such  as  they  would  like,  can  usually  fit  up  some  sub- 
stitute by  exercising  a  little  ingenuity.  In  the  absence  of  proper  places  for 
keeping  provisions,  a  hanging  safe,  suspended  in  an  airy  situation,  is  the  best 
substitute.  Carelessness  in  the  use  and  care  of  the  provisions  marks  the  poor 
and  shiftless  housekeeper. 

The  larder  should  be  cool  and  dry,  with  the  outer  air  playing  freely  through 
it,  and  it  should  be  in  the  shade — if  possible  have  it  face  due  north,  so  that  the 
sun  never  comes  in.  It  should  be  impervious  to  vermin  and  insects,  especially 
flies.  A  few  shelves,  a  few  strong  iron  hooks  on  which  to  hang  meat,  and  some 
wire  covers  for  cold  meat,  are  among  the  principal  requisites. 

MEAT,  GAME  AND  FISH. 

Meat  requires  a  dry,  airy  place,  and  should  always  be  hung  up,  not  laid  on  a 
plate  or  dish,  and  before  being  hung  up  it  should  be  wiped.  The  most  favorable 
weather  for  keeping  meat  is  when  it  is  cool,  clear  and  dry.  When  the  atmosphere 
is  thick  and  moist,  meat  will  soon  taint.  Keeping  meats  for  a  few  days  in  a  cool 
place  improves  them,  except  veal,  lamb  and  pork.  In  most  cases  fresh  meat  is 
cooked  too  soon  after  being  killed,  which  arises,  perhaps,  from  the  general  want 
of  proper  larders,  and  the  dread  of  the  meat  being  spoiled.  The  consequence  is, 
that,  instead  of  being  palatable  and  tender,  the  meat  is  tough  and  disagreeable, 
and  not  so  nutritious  or  easily  digested  as  it  ought  to  be.  But,  although  it  is  ad- 
visable that  animal  food  should  be  hung  in  the  open  air  until  its  fibres  have  lost 
some  of  their  toughness,  yet,  if  it  is  kept  till  it  loses  its  natural  sweetness,  its 
flavor  becomes  deteriorated.  As  soon  as  the  slightest  trace  of  putrescence  is  de- 
tected, it  has  reached  its  highest  degree  of  tenderness,  and  should  be  dressed  at 
once.  Meat  is  frequently  cut  from  an  animal  and  cooked  at  once  after  death,  in 
warm  climates,  and  before  what  is  called  rigor  mortis  (the  stiffness  of  death]  sets 
in.  Meat  is  harder  to  masticate  and  digest  during  this  rigor,  which  comes  on 
soon  after  death,  and  the  object  in  "keeping"  the  meat,  as  is  done  in  temperate 
climates,  is  to  let  this  rigor  pass  off,  as  it  is  then  better  for  eating;  pounding  the 
meat,  after  cutting  it  in  thin  slices,  hastens  the  process.  Domestic  fowls,  wild 
game  frequently,  frogs,  fish  and  some  mollusks,  are  about  the  only  animals  cooked 
in  this  climate  before  this  rigor  comes  on. 

Meat  may  be  kept  fresh  for  5  or  6  days  in  the  hottest  weather  by  putting  it  in 
a  stone  crock,  and  completely  covering  it  with  skimmed  milk,  just  turning  sour 
or  getting  thick;  but  the  liquid  must  fully  cover  the  meat,  and  it  should  be  kept 
in  as  cool  a  place  as  convenient;  then  wash  it  well  before  cooking  it. 

On  buying  meat  in  hot  weather,  if  you  have  no  refrigerator,  wipe  it  dry,  dredge 
it  with  flour  and  pepper,  and  hang  it  in  the  larder;  these  can  easily  be  washed  off 
before  it  is  cooked.  Or  it  may  be  prepared  as  above,  wrapped  in  a  dry  cloth, 
and  covered  with  charcoal  or  ashes.  To  keep  it  from  tainting,  charcoal  is  about 
the  best  thing. 

Should  meat  be  tainted  at  all,  it  is  best  to  wash  it  with  vinegar  and  water,  or 
powder  it  with  charcoal,  and  then  wash  it  off  with  water;  it  will  afterwards  be  bet- 
ter roasted  than  boiled.    The  habit  which  many  people  have  of  putting  meat  di- 

(36) 


KEEPING  PROVISIONS.  3? 

tectly  on  the  ice,  in  its  wrapping  paper,  is  a  very  bad  one;  the  juices  are  drawn 
out  by  the  water.  It  is  not  the  ice  but  the  cold  air  which  checks  decay,  so  that 
meat,  etc.,  should  be  placed  near  the  ice  but  not  on  it.  After  keeping  meat  on 
ice,  it  should  be  cooked  immediately  on  taking  it  off.  When  it  is  seen  that  meat 
will  not  keep  long,  it  is  better  to  parboil  or  half  roast  it  at  once;  after  which,  when 
it  is  cooked,  it  must  be  plunged  into  boiling  water,  if  to  be  boiled;  or,  for  roast- 
ing, put  it  before  a  very  hot  fire  to  start.  During  the  summer  months  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  procure  meat  that  is  not  either  tough  or  tainted;  it  should,  therefore,  be 
examined  when  it  comes  in,  and  if  flies  have  touched  it,  the  part  must  be  cut  off 
and  the  remainder  well  washed.  To  protect  meat  from  flies,  one  method  is  to 
use  a  wire  meat  safe,  or  cover  the  joints  with  a  long,  loose  gauze,  or  some  thin 
cloth,  and  hang  them  from  the  ceiling  of  a  dry  room.  Pepper  and  ginger  should 
be  sprinkled  on  the  parts  likely  to  be  attacked  by  flies,  but  should  be  washed  off 
before  the  joint  is  put  to  the  fire. 

Keeping  meat  in  winter  is  comparatively  easy,  and  it  should  always  be  hung 
till  in  good  condition;  it  is  better  to  do  this  at  home  than  trust  to  the  butcher. 

If  a  little  creosote  is  placed  on  a  small  plate  immediately  under  a  piece  of 
meat  as  it  hangs  in  the  safe  or  larder,  and  a  piece  of  cloth  is  spread  over  both 
meat  and  plate,  the  creosote  will  form  an  atmosphere  around  the  meat  which  will 
keep  it  for  3  or  4  days  longer  than  otherwise,  and  it  will  not  impart  the  slightest 
smell  or  taste  to  the  meat.     It  will  also  free  the  larder  from  flies. 

When  meat  is  hung  in  a  damp  place  a  ad  has  become  moldy,  and  what  is 
usually  termed  faint,  it  may  be  quite  restored  by  being  pared  where  necessary, 
and  washed  all  over  with  vinegar  and  water  before  cooking. 

Frozen  meat  should  be  thawed  out  gradually  by  soaking  it  in  cold  water;  a 
piece  weighing  10  lbs.  will  take  10  to  12  hours  to  thaw,  but  do  not  cook  it  until 
it  is  entirely  free  from  frost.  A  coating  of  ice  may  gather  on  the  outside,  but  it 
will  easily  cleave  off.    Do  not  let  meat  freeze,  however,  if  you  can  help  it. 

As  for  cold  meat,  it  may  be  said,  that  when  newly  cooked  meat  is  brought  from 
the  table,  and  is  to  be  put  aside  for  after  use,  it  should  be  put  on  a  clean,  dry  dish, 
placed  in  the  larder,  and  covered  with  a  wire  cover;  if  any  liquor  or  gravy  is  left 
about  it,  the  meat  is  apt  to  become  sour.  Cold  meat  is  always  best  when  it  has 
not  been  cut  while  warm,  as  then  the  juices  have  not  run  out,  and  remain  to  en- 
rich the  meat. 

Beef  may,  in  favorable  weather,  be  kept  from  4  to  10  days  to  advantage.  The 
kernel  in  the  round  of  beef,  and  the  marrow  from  the  bone  should  always  be 
taken  out  in  hot  weather  before  hanging,  as  it  taints  before  the  joint  itself. 
Those  living  in  the  north  will  find  it  economical  to  buy  a  hind  quarter  in  cold 
weather  and  have  it  cut  up;  that  which  is  not  needed  at  once  can  be  packed  with 
ice  or  snow  and  kept. 

Mutton  may,  in  favorable  weather,  hang  2  or  3  weeks  or  more,  as  it  will 
keep  longer  than  beef.  When  wrapped  in  a  cloth  wet  with  vinegar,  and  hung  in 
a  dry  cellar,  it  keeps  well  and  improves  in  tenderness.  Epicures  like  it  hung  for 
a  month,  and  it  will  keep  for  that  length  of  time  without  taint  if  the  weather  is 
favorable. 

Veal,  lamb  and  pork  ought  not  to  be  kept  more  than  1  day,  or  2  days  at  the 
most.  It  is  best  to  cook  it  soon  after  being  killed.  If  lamb  has  to  be  kept,  it 
should  be  partly  cooked,  as  that  is  the  most  certain  way  to  preserve  it  from 
taint. 

Game  and  Poultry. — Game  may  be  kept  more  easily  than  poultry,  but  it  re- 
quires care  and  constant  watching  to  bring  it  exactly  into  condition.  No  rules 
can  be  given  as  to  how  long  it  may  hang,  for  not  only  does  it  depend  on  the  kind 
of  game  and  the  weather,  but  still  more  on  the  taste  of  the  individuals  who  have 
to  eat  it.  Some  people  like  it  almost  putrid,  while  others  cannot  touch  it  if 
at  all  high;  but  it  may  be  said  that  when  the  feathers  come  out  very  easily,  it  is 
generally  considered  fit  for  cooking.  Old  game  will  hang  longer  than  young,  and 
afterwards  will  require  longer  cooking.     Game  is  frequently  hung  2  or  3  weeks. 

When  game  or  poultry  becomes  strong,  put  some  charcoal  in  water  and  soak 
the  bird  in  it  for  a  few  hours,  which  will  sweeten  a  bird  that  seems  spoiled. 
Some  people  put  soda  in  the  water,  but  the  charcoal  is  best.  Sportsmen  who 
wish  to  ship  game  can  send  it  a  long  distance  if  they  will  shut  out  the  air  by 
tying  a  string  tightly  about  the  neck,  and  then  stuff  some  charcoal  up  the  vent. 


m  KEEPING  PROVISION^. 

Turkeys  may  be  kept  a  fortnight.  Ducks  and  geeses  if  their  feathers  are  left 
on  and  they  are  hung  by  their  legs,  may  be  kept  in  a  good  larder  for  several 
days.  Great  care  mtlst  be  taken  in  picking  feathered  animals  which  have  been 
kept,  for  the  skin  will  be  easily  torn.  Even  delicate  birds  can  be  preserved  if 
they  are  drawn  as  soon  as  they  are  killed,  and  then  carefully  washed  in  a  solution 
of  soda  and  water;  afterwards  dry,  put  some  charcoal  inside,  and  after  spreading 
a  cloth  over  it,  hang  it  up  in  some  place  that  is  cool  and  dark.  All  water  birds 
should  be  eaten  as  fresh  as  possible,  as  their  flesh  is  oily,  and  soon  becomes  rank. 
Poultry  is  eaten  fresh,  and  does  not  require  hanging. 

Fish  of  nearly  all  kinds  is  best  when  cooked  as  fresh  as  possible.  If  it  has 
been  kept  on  ice,  it  should  be  cooked  at  once  on  taking  it  off,  as  it  will  get  soft 
soon  and  its  flavor  will  be  lost.  When  fish  is  plentiful  and  cheap,  and  a  larger 
quantity  is  purchased  than  is  immediately  wanted,  any  surplus  which  will  bear 
it,  should  be  potted  or  pickled  or  salted  and  hung  up;  or  it  may  be  fried  and  then 
used  for  stewing  the  next  day.  Fresh  water  fish,  having  frequently  a  muddy 
smell  and  taste,  should  be  well  cleaned  and  soaked  in  strong  salt  and  water.  If 
of  a  sufficient  size,  it  may  be  scalded  in  salt  and  water,  and  afterwards  dried  and 
dressed.  Cod-fish,  whiting  and  haddock  are  none  the  worse  for  being  a  little 
salted  and  kept  a  day;  if  the  weather  is  not  very  hot  they  will  be  good  for  2 
days.  In  cleaning  fish  it  is  best  to  use  as  little  water  as  is  consistent  with  clean- 
liness. 

Cold  fish  should  be  saved,  as  it  may  be  utilized  in  salads  and  prepared  in 
many  attractive  ways. 

Sprinkling  fish  with  sugar  will  keep  them  a  long  time,  and  it  does  not  injure 
their  flavor.  Keep  them  in  a  horizontal  position  to  enable  the  sugar  to  penetrate 
them  well.    Salmon  is  improved  by  this  treatment. 

To  preserve  fish  alive  for  transporting  from  place  to  place,  stop  up  their  mouths  with 
crumbs  of  bread  steeped  in  brandy,  and  pour  a  very  small  quantity  of  brandy  into  them; 
pack  them  in  clean  straw.  The  fish  will  become  quite  torpid,  and  in  this  state  may  be 
kept  10  or  12  days.    When  put  into  water,  they  will  gradually  recover  after  3  or  4  hours. 

To  keep  oysters,  put  them  in  a  tub  and  cover  them  with  salt  and  water;  leave 
in  12  hours,  then  take  them  out  and  let  stand  12  hours,  without  water.  If  left 
without  water  every  alternate  12  hours  they  will  keep  much  better  than  if  left  in 
it  constantly.  Never  use  the  same  water  for  them  twice.  Or  live  oysters  in  the 
shell  may  be  put  in  some  cool  place,  like  a  cellar,  and  sprinkled  with  salt  and 
cornmeal,  then  cover  with  a  thick,  wet  cloth.  Repeat  every  day,  and  keep  the 
cloth  wet.  They  will  keep  this  way  10  or  15  days.  When  taken  from  the  shell, 
keep  them  on  ice,  and  the  sooner  they  are  eaten,  the  better. 

VEGETABLES. 

A  great  deal  is  lost  in  most  households  because  this  class  of  provisions  are  not 
suitably  cared  for,  and  we  offer  suggestions  about  keeping  the  more  important 
articles.    We  elsewhere  give  the  best  methods  of  canning  and  preserving. 

All  vegetables,  when  cut,  may  be  kept  fresh  by  putting  the  stalks  into  water; 
servants  generally  insist  on  immersing  the  whole  vegetable,  which  favors  decom- 
position. All  withered  vegetables  should  have  the  stalks  freshly  cut,  and  the 
ends  should  then  be  put  in  a  bowl  of  water,  just  as  withered  flowers  would  be 
treated.  Through  the  stalks  they  suck  up  water  enough  to  fill  their  shrunken 
cells,  and  that  makes  them  green  and  stiff  once  more;  but  it  is  a  mistake  to  plunge 
the  entire  plant  under  water.  Of  course  this  does  not  apply  to  the  washing  of 
vegetables  and  salads,  which  cannot  be  too  complete. 

Potatoes  are  sometimes  laid  in  the  sun  to  dry,  but  if  left  too  long  in  the  sun, 
they  turn  yellow  or  green  and  strong,  and  are  then  unfit  for  food.  All  green 
vegetables  should,  as  a  rule,  be  used  as  soon  after  being  gathered  as  possible. 
They  begin  to  ferment  and  lose  their  wholesomeness  and  flavor  very  shortly  after 
being  taken  from  the  ground.  When  they  have  to  be  kept  for  a  day  or  two,  place 
them  in  a  perfectly  dry,  dark  and  cool  situation,  but  not  exposed  to  currents  of 
air.  Aim  to  keep  each  vegetable  separate  from  others  to  prevent  contamination 
of  flavor.    Do  not  wash  them  until  immediately  before  being  used. 

To  keep  vegetables  like  onions,  turnips,  etc.,  during  the  winter,  a  common 
method  is  to  bed  them  in  sand,  in  a  cool  place,  but  where  they  will  not  freeze;  or 
air  slacked  lime  may  be  used.    Another  method  is  the  following:    Sink  a  barrel 


KEEPING  PROVISIONS.  39 

(Or  a  box  or  cask,  which  will  be  better)  %  of  its  depth  into  the  ground  in  the 
cellar;  heap  dirt  around  the  part  projecting  out  of  the  ground,  with  a  slope  on  all 
sides;  in  this,  place  the  vegetables  you  desire  to  keep;  cover  the  top  with  a  water- 
tight cover,  and  when  winter  sets  in,  throw  hay,  straw  or  leaves  on  top.  If  the 
bottom  is  out  of  the  cask  or  barrel  it  will  be  better.  Cabbages,  celery  and  other 
vegetables  will  keep  in  this  way  as  fresh  as  when  taken  from  the  ground.  Celery 
should  stand  nearly  perpendicular,  celery  and  earth  alternating.  Freedom  from 
frost,  ease  of  access,  and  especially  freshness  and  freedom  from  rot  are  the  ad- 
vantages claimed.  Again,  Prof.  Maynard,  of  the  Mass.  Agricultural  College, 
writes:  "Many  cellars  are  often  so  warm  or  dry  that  such  vegetables  or  roots  as 
the  turnip,  beet,  parsnip,  etc.,  do  not  keep  well.  To  overcome  this  difficulty,  soil 
is  often  used  to  pack  the  roots  in,  but  the  best  way  to  preserve  them,  and  the  one 
requiring  the  least  labor,  is  as  follows:  In  the  coolest  and  darkest  corner  of  your 
cellar  spread  a  thin  layer  of  fine,  moist  leaves.  Those  of  the  apple  tree  are  as 
good  as  any.  If  there  is  a  little  admixture  of  snow  or  frost,  all  the  better.  Upon 
the  leaves  place  a  layer  of  roots  one  deep,  then  a  layer  of  leaves,  and  so  on  until 
the  pile  is  complete.  Very  large  quantities  should  not  be  stored  in  one  pile,  as  the 
leaves  would  be  liable  to  heat.  By  this  method  I  have  kept  the  common  English 
turnips  in  perfect  condition  until  May  1,  and  beets  until  August.  They  are  thus 
easily  preserved  and  not  as  difficult  to  get  at  as  when  stored  in  sand  or  soil." 

Roots  of  all  kinds  may  be  preserved  in  an  ice  house,  where  one  has  one,  till 
the  return  of  the  natural  crop.  Pill  the  cracks  in  the  ice  with  straw,  cover  the 
top  with  the  same  material,  and  on  it  place  baskets,  boxes,  casks,  etc.,  and  fill 
them  with  carrots,  turnips,  beet-roots,  potatoes,  etc.  They  will  thus  keep  fresh 
and  uninjured. 

Most  vegetables  keep  best  when  the  temperature  is  low,  but  they  should  not 
freeze.  Some  articles,  like  apples,  keep  best  in  quite  a  low  temperature,  and  may 
be  kept  for  months  after  freezing  solid,  if  not  moved  or  disturbed  while  frozen. 
Vegetables  which  are  frozen,  or  touched  with  frost,  should  be  thawed  out  gradu- 
ally, by  putting  them  in  cold  water  until  the  frost  is  all  out. 

Artichokes. — These  keep  well  bedded  in  sand  in  a  cool  place.  Another  plan  is 
to  take  as  many  as  you  intend  to  keep,  and  boil  them  barely  enough  to  be  able  to 
pull  off  all  the  leaves  and  choke;  lay  the  bottoms  on  a  tin  plate  and  put  them  in 
the  oven.  When  thoroughly  dry,  and  quite  hard,  put  them  in  a  paper  bag,  and 
hang  them  in  a  dry  place.  Before  using,  they  must  be  soaked  in  warm  water  3  to 
4  hours,  changing  the  water  very  often.  Let  the  last  water  be  boiling  hot;  the 
bottoms  will  then  be  very  tender,  and  eat  as  well  as  fresh  ones. 

Beans. — To  keep  these  fresh  for  winter,  procure  a  wide-mouthed  stone  jar, 
lay  on  the  bottom  of  it  some  freshly-pulled  French  beans,  and  over  them  put  a 
layer  of  salt;  fill  the  jar  up  in  this  way  with  alternate  layers  of  beans  and  salt. 
The  beans  need  not  all  be  put  in  at  the  same  time,  but  they  are  better  if  the  salt 
is  put  on  while  they  are  quite  fresh.  They  will  keep  good  all  winter.  On  using 
any,  steep  them  for  some  hours  in  fresh,  cold  water.  A  pinch  of  baking  soda  in 
the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled  gives  them  the  bright  green  color  they  have 
when  fresh.  Cover  the  top  layer  with  plenty  of  salt,  and  keep  the  cover  tied  on 
tightly  between  the  times  of  using  the  beans. 

Dried  string  beans  are  excellent  in  winter.  Cut  the  beans  up  in  the  usual 
lengths,  dry  them,  and  put  them  in  a  bag.  In  winter  soak  them,  and  cook  them 
in  the  usual  way. 

Cabbages. — Gather  them  before  the  severe  fall  frosts;  let  the  coarse,  outside 
leaves  remain  on  them.  Fix  a  strong  string  around  the  stalk,  and  suspend  them 
from  the  timbers  of  the  ceiling,  head  downwards.  The  cellar  should  be  cool  and 
dry.  This  will  preserve  them  to  a  certainty.  Another  good  method  is  to  cut  the 
cabbages  from  the  stump,  pack  them  close  in  a  barrel  or  box,  and  fill  up  all  va- 
cancies with  dry  chaff  or  bran,  and  keep  in  a  dry  cellar. 

Cauliflower.— This  may  be  kept  till  February  by  putting  it  in  a  cellar,  and 
covering  the  roots  and  stalks  with  earth.  Or  it  may  be  placed  in  a  trench  in 
the  garden,  roots  down,  and  covered  with  earth  close  up  to  the  head,  and 
then  covered  with  hay  or  straw  4  or  5  inches  thick,  placing  just  enough  earth 
on  the  straw  to  keep  it  in  position.  This  method  answers  in  the  latitude  of 
New  York,  but  in  colder  climates  a  thicker  covering  would  be  required. 

Celery. — This  may  be  kept  in  good  condition  all  winter  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar,  by 


40  KEEPING  PROVISIONS. 

having  it  set  in  earth.  When  a  small  quantity  only  is  wanted,  take  a  box,  stand 
the  celery  up  in  it,  and  place  a  little  earth  about  the  roots. 

Celery  may  be  kept  fresh  for  a  week  or  more  if  it  is  wrapped  up,  first  in  brown 
paper,  and  then  in  a  towel,  and  laid  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Before  it  is  wanted  for 
the  table,  let  it  lie  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.    This  will  make  it  crisp. 

Cucumbers. — These  are  much  improved  by  being  placed  with  the  stalk  down- 
ward in  a  jug  of  cold  water  for  some  hours  before  being  used.  A  large  cucumber 
may  be  kept  in  this  way  and  used  in  portions  for  2  or  3  days.  They  may  be  kept 
for  a  longer  period  by  cutting  them  when  at  their  best,  and  packing  them  in  dry 
sand,  so  that  they  do  not  touch  each  other,  and  keeping  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Horseradish. — To  keep  this,  grate  it  in  the  season,  while  green,  put  in  bot- 
tles, fill  them  up  with  strong  vinegar,  cork  tightly  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place. 

Mushrooms.—  Pick  and  cut  off  the  stalks,  wipe  them  clean,  from  the  large 
ones  remove  the  brown  part,  peel  off  the  skin,  and  lay  them  on  paper  in  a  cool 
oven.  When  fully  dry,  put  them  into  paper  bags  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 
When  required  for  use,  simmer  them  in  gravy,  and  they  will  swell  to  their 
original  size. 

Onions  tied  up  in  strings  in  the  old-fashioned  way  invariably  keep  much  bet- 
ter than  those  laid  on  shelves  or  on  the  floor.  They  should  be  kept  in  a  very  dry 
place.  Or,  put  them  in  boxes  or  barrels,  and  if  there  is  danger  of  their  freezing, 
cover  them  with  straw  or  chaff  at  the  approach  of  cold  weather.  Store  them  in 
the  coolest  part  of  the  cellar.  They  are  often  injured  by  being  kept  in  too  warm 
a  place.  Alternate  chilling  and  thawing  destroys  them,  but  if  put  where  they 
will  remain  frozen  all  winter,  no  considerable  injury  will  result  if  they  are 
thawed  out  slowly,  and  in  a  dark  place,  but  use  them  soon  afterwards. 

Parsnips. — Before  the  ground  freezes  in  the  fall,  enough  should  be  dug  to 
use  during  the  winter.  They  can  be  stored  in  barrels  or  boxes,  packed  in  dry 
sand  or  chaff.  Keep  them  in  a  dry  and  cold  place.  The  balance  can  be  left  in  the 
ground  where  they  grew  until  the  frost  is  out  in  the  spring,  when  they  should  be 
dug  and  used  before  they  begin  growth,  for  as  soon  as  that  takes  place  they  lose 
their  sweetness. 

Green  peas  may  be  kept  for  winter  use  as  follows:  Gather  the  peas  when 
plentiful,  shell  them,  and  then  wash  and  scald  them  in  hot  water.  When  thor- 
oughly drained  put  them  into  bottles  and  fill  up  each  one  with  strong  brine;  at  the 
top  of  the  bottle  pour  a  thin  layer  of  salad  oil.  Cork  and  seal  the  bottles,  which 
must  be  quite  full  and  kept  upright.  Or,  when  full  grown,  but  not  old,  pick  and 
shell  them,  and  spread  in  thin  layers  on  dishes  or  tins,  and  dry  them  very  grad- 
ually in  a  cool  oven  or  before  a  bright  fire,  stirring  them  frequently.  When  hard, 
let  them  cool,  pack  in  stone  jars,  cover  close,  and  keep  in  a  very  dry  place. 
When  used,  soak  them  in  cold  water  for  several  hours  before  boiling,  till  they 
look  plump;  they  are  excellent  for  soup. 

Potatoes. — These  should  not  be  exposed  to  the  sun  and  light  any  more  than 
is  necessary  to  dry  them,  after  digging  them  from  the  hill.  Every  10  minutes  of 
such  exposure,  especially  in  the  sun,  injures  their  edible  qualities.  Dig  them, 
and  when  dry,  put  them  immediately  in  a  dark  cellar.  Apples  and  potatoes 
should  not  be  kept  in  the  same  cellar  unless  necessary.  If  so,  the  apples  should 
be  kept  in  the  coolest  and  the  potatoes  in  the  warmest  part.  Grocers  who  ex- 
pose potatoes  for  sale  in  the  hot  sun  would  do  well  to  remember  what  is  said 
above. 

To  keep  potatoes,  intended  for  the  table,  from  sprouting,  take  boiling  water, 
pour  it  into  a  tub,  and  turn  in  as  many  potatoes  as  the  water  will  cover,  and 
leave  them  2  or  3  minutes;  the  hot  water  will  scald  the  eyes  and  prevent  their 
growing;  then  pour  off  all  the  water,  let  them  dry,  and  lay  them  on  boards  one 
deep,  or  put  them  in  sacks,  and  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  you  will  have 
good  potatoes  the  year  round.  Do  not  leave  them  in  the  light,  as  that  affects 
them  unfavorably. 

Sweet  potatoes  need  a  warm,  dry  temperature.  They  keep  well  when  packed 
in  barrels  of  dry  sand  or  dry  leaves.  A  temperature  of  45°  to  50"  is  best  for 
them. 

Squashes  require  a  very  dry  place.  They  may  be  bedded  in  sand.  Keep 
them  cold,  but  do  not  let  them  freeze.  They  keep  well  on  shelves  in  a  dry,  warm 
closet;  grocers  often  keep  them  on  the  top  shelves  of  the  store. 


KEEPING  PROVISIONS.  41 

Pumpkins. — To  dry  pumpkins,  take  those  which  are  ripe,  pare,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  stew  soft,  mash,  and  strain  through  a  colander  as  if  for  making  pies. 
Spread  this  pulp  on  plates,  in  layers  not  quite  an  inch  thick;  dry  in  the  stove 
oven,  kept  at  so  low  a  temperature  as  not  to  scorch  it.  It  will  become  dry  and 
crisp  in  about  a  day.  Store  these  sheets  in  a  dry  place.  To  use,  soak  the  pieces 
over  night  in  a  little  milk,  and  they  will  return  to  a  nice  pulp  as  delicious  as  the 
fresh  pumpkin.  The  quick  drying  after  cooking  prevents  any  portion  from 
slightly  souring,  as  is  always  the  case  when  the  uncooked  pieces  are  dried. 

Tomatoes. — Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  but  they  are  very  perishable  and  should 
be  cooked  or  canned  soon,  or  they  will  decay. 

Turnips. — These  should  be  kept  dry,  and  as  near  the  freezing  point  as  pos- 
sible, as  they  sprout  easily.  They  may  be  kept  during  the  winter  buried  in  the  earth. 

Herbs,  to  Dry. — Gather  them  on  a  very  dry  day,  and  just  before  they  begin  to 
flower.  If  gathered  when  damp  they  will  not  be  so  good.  Free  them  perfectly 
from  dust  and  dirt,  pick  off  all  bad  or  discolored  leaves,  divide  them  into  small 
bunches  with  their  roots  cut  off,  and  dry  them  quickly  in  a  hot  oven  or  before  the 
fire,  as  by  this  means  most  of  their  flavor  will  be  preserved.  The  quicker  they 
are  dried,  the  better,  but  be  careful  not  to  burn  them.  Tie  them  up  in  paper 
bags  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  Or,  what  is  a  better  plan,  after  drying  as  above, 
pick  off  the  leaves,  pound  them,  pass  through  a  fine  sieve,  put  each  kind  in  a 
separate  bottle,  cork  tightly,  and  label  it  clearly.    Have  them  cold  when  bottled. 

Herbs. — These  are  a  most  valuable  addition  to  the  resources  of  the  cook,  and  the  more 
useful  ones  should  be  in  every  house.  If  judiciously  used  for  seasoning,  they  add  greatly 
to  the  flavor  and  attractiveness  of  food.  Much  of  the  charm  of  French  cookery  comes  from 
the  skilful  use  of  seasoning.  The  useful  herbs  can  be  bought  for  a  small  sum,  but  almost 
any  housekeeper  can  easily  raise  all  she  needs  with  very  little  trouble.  Either  ibasil,  mint, 
sweetmarjoram.parsley,  sage,  thyme  or  tarragon  can  be  raised  in  little  boxes  on  a  window 
sill,  or  In  the  yard  in  a  sunny  spot.  The  time  for  gathering  them  is  as  follows:  Mint,  pars- 
ley and  tarragon  in  June  and  July  ;marjoramand  thyme  in  July  and  August;  sage  and  basil 
in  August  and  September. 

Bay  Leaves  are  taken  from  a  species  of  laurel,  L.  Nobilis.  It  is  a  native  of  Asia  Minor, 
but  is  cultivated  as  a  handsome  evergreen.  The  leaves  are  large,  shining  and  lance-shaped, 
and  are  bitter,  aromatic  and  narcotic.  They  are  used  by  cooks  and  confectioners  because 
of  their  agreeable  flavor.  Most  of  the  dried  figs  imported  into  this  country  are  packed  in 
bay  leaves.  The  laurel  among  the  Greeks  was  sacred  to  Apollo,  and  from  it  the  garlands 
were  made  which  were  placed  on  the  heads  of  heroes  and  poets. 

Borage  is  a  useful  plant  that  does  best  in  a  light  soil,  as  a  very  rich  soil  makes  it  too 
luxuriant  and  affects  its  flavor.  The  young  leaves  can  be  made  into  a  salad,  or  they  can  be 
dried  for  winter,  and  used  to  flavor  soups  and  sauces. 

Cherry  Laurel  is  another  species  of  laurel  (the  Cerasus  Lauroserasus).  Its  leaves  are 
used  for  flavoring  blanc  mange,  puddings,  sauces,  etc.,  but  cooks  ought  to  understand  its 
true  character.  The  leaves  should  be  used  with  great  caution,  and  but  few  should  be  used 
at  a  time,  because  when  wet  with  water  they  yield  prussic  acid,  which  is  a  deadly  poison. 
This  same  acid  is  found  in  bitter  almonds  and  gives  them  their  flavor,  and  a  little  of  it  is 
also  found  in  peach  pits  and  apple  seeds. 

Sweet  Basil  is  a  tender  annual,  a  native  of  Asia.  The  leaves  and  leafy  tops  are  highly 
aromatic,  and  their  flavor  much  resembles  that  of  cloves.  It  is  much  used  in  French  cook- 
ery, but  not  much  by  English  or  American  cooks. 

The  Marjoram  is  a  plant  of  which  there  are  several  varieties.  The  sweet  or  knotted 
marjoram  is  the  one  usually  preferred  in  cookery.  It  is  a  native  of  Greece.  It  is  rather 
tender,  and  requires  a  light,  dry  soil,  but  if  taken  in  doors  and  'kept  in  a  warm,  sheltered 
place,  free  from  wet,  it  may  be  kept  through  the  winter.  The  leaves  have  an  agreeable  aro- 
matic flavor,  and  are  used  in  soups,  stuffings,  etc.  Medicinally  it  is  stimulant,  tonic,  and 
useful  for  nervousness. 

Mint. — There  are  many  varieties  of  mint,  and  the  species  are  distributed  nearly  all  over 
the  world.  The  green  mint  or  spearmint  is  the  variety  commonly  used  in  cookery,  the 
leaves  being  used  in  sauces  and  salads,  and  to  counteract  the  flatulent  properties  of  some 
young  vegetables.  Spearmint  is  highly  esteemed  as  an  anti-spasmodic  and  stomachic. 
Peppermint  is  another  variety,  possessing  the  same  properties,  but  is  much  stronger.  The 
oil  which  is  extracted  from  it  is  a  carminative  and  stimulant,  and  is  used  for  flavoring 
lozenges,  etc. 

The  Parsley  is  a  hardy  biennial  plant,  a  native  of  Eastern  Europe.  There  are  several 
varieties,  the  Hamburg  parsley  being  grown  for  the  sake  of  its  roots  which  are  eaten  like 
parsnips.  The  leaves  "of  parsley  are  nutritious  and  stimulating,  and  are  used  as  a  flavoring 
for  soups,  etc.,  as  well  as  for  garnishing  foods.  The  root  is  diuretic.  The  fruit  (seed)  is  a 
deadly  poison  to  many  birds,  especially  parrots. 

To  Keep  Parsley  for  the  winter,  use  that  which  is  freshly  gathered,  wash  it  free  from 
grit  and  dirt,  and  put  it  into  water  which  has  been  slightly  salted  and  well  skimmed,  and 
let  it  boil  2  or  3  minutes;  then  take  it  out,  drain,  and  lay  it  on  a  sieve  before  the  tire  and  dry 
as  quickly  as  possible;  store  away  in  bottles  in  a  dry  place.  When  wanted  for  use,  pour  a 
little  warm  water  over  it  and  let  it  stand  about  5  minutes. 

The  Sage  is  a  hardy  shrub,  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe.  There  are  several  kinds  of 
it,  known  as  the  red,  the  green,  etc.  Its  principal  use  in  cookery  is  for  stuffing  and  sauces, 
the  red  being  most  agreeable  for  this  use,  and  the  green  next.  The  other  varieties  are  used 
for  medicinal  purposes. 


42  KEEPING  PROVISIONS. 

Savoby.— Of  this  there  are  2  kinds,  summer  and  winter.  Summer  savory  is  grown  for 
seed  and  used  both  green  and  dried;  winter  savory  can  he  grown  from  slips  and  cuttings. 
Both  kinds  are  highly  esteemed  in  cookery  for  their  powerful  aromatic  flavor. 

The  Tarragon  is  a  hardy  plant  which  grows  in  light,  dryish  soil.  Itis  a  native  of 
Siberia,  and  belongs  to  the  order  Composite?.  It  has  smooth  leaves,  of  a  bright  green  color, 
which  are  agreeable  to  the  taste,  and  are  used  principally  for  making  the  tarragon 
vinegar. 

The  Thyme  is  a  native  of  Spain  and  Italy,  and  was  well  known  to  the  Romans.  Its 
leaves  possess  an  agreeable  and  highly  aromatic  flavor,  and  are  used,  in  both  a  green  and 
dried  state,  to  season  soups,  sauces,  stuffings,  etc.,  but  a  little  of  it  goes  a  long  ways.  The 
Lemon  Thyme  is  a  variety  of  the  wild  thyme,  remarkable  for  its  smell,  which  closely  re- 
sembles the  rind  of  a  lemon. 

FRUIT. 

Fruit,  as  well  as  vegetables,  will  keep  very  fresh  if  you  can  manage  to  put 
the  stalks  in  water,  only  it  must  not  be  in  a  close  or  dark  place.  When  apples, 
oranges,  lemons,  pears,  etc.,  are  to  be  stored,  they  should  not  touch  each  other, 
and  they  should  be  protected  from  heat,  cold  and  damp,  as  much  as  possible — 
sunshine  is  not  desirable.  A  fruit  room  does  not  require  much  ventilation,  un- 
less it  can  be  given  without  altering  the  temperature.  Alternating  from  heat  to 
cold  produces  condensation  and  evaporation  of  moisture,  which  soon  causes 
decay,  and  it  should  therefore  be  avoided.  Fruit  should  always  feel  dry  to  the 
touch.  Fruit  rooms  which  are  above  ground  should  be  double-walled  and  ceiled, 
but  when  wholly  or  partially  sunk  in  the  ground  this  is  not  so  important,  if 
darup,is  otherwise  excluded. 

Many  fruits  are  best  kept  by  being  dried,  preserved,  or  canned;  those  subjects 
are  fully  discussed  elsewhere  in  this  work. 

Apples. — The  best  method  of  keeping  apples  is  to  carefully  wipe  each  one,  put 
them  on  shelves,  and  cover  them  with  white  paper;  keep  them  from  touching 
each  other;  to  do  this,  a  number  of  shallow  trays  may  be  provided,  and  supported 
on  racks  one  above  the  other.  The  larger  and  finer  kinds  can  be  each  wrapped 
in  paper.  Another  plan  is  to  pack  the  apples,  so  that  they  will  not  touch  each 
other,  in  dry  oats,  or  sawdust,  much  as  eggs  are  packed;  or  put  them  in  layers  of 
dry  sand.  Bruised  apples  soon  rot  and  infect  those  touching  them.  A  dry,  cold 
place  in  which  there  is  little  change  of  temperature  is  best.  A  piece  of  linen 
cloth  spread  over  apples  will  make  them  less  likely  to  freeze.  When  kept  stored 
in  barrels  do  not  unhead  them  until  they  are  wanted.  It  is  rarely  a  good  plan  to 
sort  over  the  apples  to  pick  out  the  rotten  ones;  leave  them  undisturbed  until 
used. 

Apricots. — These  are  difficult  to  keep  long.  If  gathered  before  they  are  quite 
ripe  on  the  shady  side,  and  laid  on  a  sieve  in  the  fruit  room  or  a  cool  cellar,  they 
will  keep  perfectly  for  a  few  days,  but  not  long. 

Cherries. — Fresh  cherries  will  not  keep  long;  they  can  be  dried — see  "Dried 
Fruit." 

Cranberries. — Keep  these  in  the  cellar,  under  water — say  in  a  barrel  or  keg — 
and  they  will  keep  through  the  winter.    Change  the  water  every  3  or  4  weeks. 

The  cranberry  is  nearly  related  to  the  bilberry.  The  species  are  all  natives  of  cold 
countries,  and  grow  well  on  swampy  land.  The  fruit  is  too  acid  to  be  eaten  raw,  but  has  a 
very  pleasant  taste  when  cooked.    The  juice  contains  malic  and  citric  acid. 

Filberts  come  from  a  cultivated  variety  of  Corylus  cupuliferce.  They  con- 
stitute a  rich  but  rather  indigestible  article  of  food.  The  best  way  to  keep  them 
is  to  pack  them  when  quite  ripe  and  dry,  in  earthen  jars,  and  place  a  thick  layer 
of  salt  over  them.  Tie  a  paper  over  them,  keep  in  a  cool  place  and  they  will  keep 
several  months.  If  they  get  to  look  dark  or  moldy,  place  them  in  a  colander, 
and  shake  gently  over  a  pan  of  red  hot  coals  on  which  a  little  powdered  sulphur 
has  been  sprinkled;  the  fumes  will  soon  remove  the  discoloration  and  make  them 
fit  for  the  table. 

Figs. — These,  if  not  gathered  from  the  tree  until  they  are  ripe  and  tender,  will 
keep  in  the  fruit  room  for  a  few  days  without  growing  moldy,  but  no  longer;  on 
ice  they  will  keep  2  or  3  weeks. 

Grapes. — To  keep  well,  they  must  not  be  too  ripe;  pick  off  any  imperfect 
grapes  from  the  bunches.  On  the  bottom  of  a  keg  put  a  layer  of  bran  that  has 
been  well  dried  in  an  oven  or  in  the  sun;  on  the  bran  put  a  layer  of  grapes,  with 
bran  between  the  bunches  so  that  they  may  not  be  in  contact;  proceed  in  the 
same  way  with  alternate  layers  of  grapes  and  bran  until  the  keg  is  full;  then 


Keeping  provisions.  43 

close  it  so  that  no  air  can  enter.  Another  plan  is  to  take  a  box  and  first  lay  a  pa- 
per, then  a  layer  of  grapes  (selecting  the  best  bunches,  removing  all  imperfect 
ones,  and  dipping  the  end  of  the  stems  in  sealing-wax);  then  put  in  another  paper, 
then  more  grapes,  and  so  on  until  the  box  is  full;  then  cover  all  with  several  folds 
of  paper  or  cloth;  nail  on  the  lid  and  set  in  a  cool  room  where  it  will  not  freeze. 
Use  small  boxes,  so  as  not  to  disturb  more  than  will  be  needed  in  a  few  days. 
Give  each  bunch  plenty  of  room  so  that  they  will  not  crowd,  and  do  not  use  news- 
papers. 

Lemons. — (1).  Wrap  each  one  in  common  tissue  paper,  and  lay  them  on  a 
shelf  so  that  they  do  not  touch  each  other.  The  shelf  should  be  in  a  dry,  dark 
cupboard,  free  from  draughts.  (2).  Lemons  will  keep  good  for  months  by  putting 
them  in  a  jug  of  butter-milk,  changing  the  butter-milk  about  every  3  weeks. 
When  the  lemons  are  required  for  use,  they  should  be  wiped  dry  with  a  cloth. 
(3).  Put  them  in  an  open  jar  or  basin  (not  a  tight  jug)  of  water,  which  should  be 
kept  cool  and  changed  2  or  3  times  a  week,  taking  care  not  to  bruise  the  lemons; 
but  in  this  way  they  gradually  lose  flavor.  (4).  Bed  them  in  layers,  in  jars,  in 
fine,  dry  sand,  having  the  sand  about  3  inches  deep  between  the  layers;  pack  them 
stalks  down,  and  do  not  let  them  touch  each  other.  Store  them  in  a  cool,  dry 
place,  and  they  will  keep  for  months.  (5).  They  may  also  be  kept  strung  to- 
gether, or  in  nets,  and  hung  in  a  dry,  airy  place,  but  they  must  not  touch  each 
other. 

Lemon  Juice. — It  is  convenient  sometimes  to  preserve  lemon  juice.  Proceed 
as  follows:  Squeeze  a  number  of  fine  lemons,  taking  care  that  they  are  all  quite 
fresh.  Strain  the  juice  through  muslin,  and  pour  it  into  small  bottles,  and  pour 
just  enough  olive  oil  on  top  to  cover  it  and  keep  out  the  air.  On  opening  for  use, 
dip  in  cotton  wool  first,  to  absorb  the  oil;  it  will  not  stay  good  long  after  being 
opened,  so  use  small  bottles.  Another  plan  is  to  put  %.  lb.  sugar  in  ^  pint 
lemon  juice;  stir  them  together  with  a  silver  spoon  till  the  sugar  is  quite  dis- 
solved. Pour  into  small  bottles,  cork  well,  and  tie  bladder  tightly  over  the 
corks. 

Lemon  belongs  to  the  citrus  family,  and  is  native  to  the  north  of  India.  It  was  unknown 
to  the  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans,  and  was  introduced  into  Europe  during  the  crusades. 
It  is  now  widely  naturalized.  Its  acidity  is  due  to  the  presence  of  citric  and  malic  acid  in 
the  juice.  It  also  contains  3  or  4  %  of  gum  and  sugar,  and  some  albumenous  matter,  and  a 
little  potash  and  phosphoric  acid.  Lemons  with  thick  rough  skins  are  almost  certain  to  be 
dry  and  spongy,  so  choose  those  with  thin,  smooth  skins.  Persons  of  bilious  and  sanguine 
temperaments  may  freely  drink  the  lemonade  made  from  its  juice,  but  those  with  irritable 
stomachs  should  avoid  it  on  account  of  its  acid  and  therefore  irritating  qualities. 

Melons  of  all  varieties  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  room.  They  should  be 
cut  when  just  ripe. 

Oranges  should  be  wrapped  in  soft  paper  and  laid  on  shelves  or  in  a  drawer. 
The  atmosphere  should  be  cool,  dry  and  even  in  temperature. 

Peaches  and  Nectarines. — Different  varieties  of  these  vary  in  their  keeping 
qualities.  On  a  cool,  airy  shelf  in  the  fruit  room  they  should  keep  2  weeks  or 
longer;  on  ice,  they  will  keep  4  to  6  weeks,  but  must  be  used  as  soon  as  they  are 
taken  out — almost  before  they  cool.  Nectarines  keep  rather  better  than  peaches. 
Wrap  each  one  in  paper,  and  keep  like  pears. 

Pears. — Wrap  each  one  in  paper  and  keep  it  separate  from  others.  Keep  in  a 
dry,  even,  cool  temperature.    They  do  not  keep  well. 

Persimmons. — These  may  be  kept  by  putting  a  layer  of  brown  sugar  in  an 
earthen  jar;  then  put  in  a  layer  of  persimmons,  then  sugar,  and  so  on  with  alter- 
nate layers;  have  sugar  on  top.     Keep  paper  closely  tied  over  the  top. 

Pineapples. — Take  ripe  pineapples,  pare  and  remove  the  eyes,  and  with  a  sil- 
ver fork  separate  the  pulp  from  the  core;  add  1  ft),  granulated  sugar  to  each  2 
cups  of  this  pulp  and  let  stand  until  the  sugar  dissolves,  stirring  occasionally; 
then  put  it  in  glass  fruit  jars,  screwing  on  the  covers  tightly. 

Plums  can  be  kept  several  weeks  if  wrapped  in  thin  paper  and  laid  singly  on 
wood.     Bruising  them  hastens  decay. 

Ripe  nuts  are  best  kept  in  a  cellar  in  a  covered  earthenware  crock.  Put 
them  in  when  freshly  gathered,  and  tie  stiff,  glazed,  brown  paper  over  the  cover. 
Walnuts  keep  well  packed  in  salt  in  crocks.  Walnuts  which  have  become  shriv- 
elled should  be  steeped  in  milk  and  water  for  a  few  hours — say  6  or  8;  this  will 
make  them  plump  and  fine,  and  cause  them  to  peel  easily. 


44  KEEPING  PROVISIONS. 

The  Walxtjt  is  a  native  of  Persia.  In  the  south  of  Europe  it  is  quite  largely  consumed, 
being  there  considered  wholesome  and  nutritious.  The  unripe  fruit,  when  the  shell  is  soft, 
makes  an  excellent  pickle.  By  boiling  them  in  syrup  a  delicate  sweetmeat  is  prepared. 
The  oil  pressed  from  the  nut  is  sometimes  used  as  a  substitute  for  olive  oil  on  the  continent, 
and  it  is  the  nut  oil  used  in  painting.  The  matter  left  after  the  oil  is  extracted  is  nutritious 
for  poultry  or  cattle.    Grated  walnuts  are  used  in  Spain  for  tarts  and  other  dishes. 

Berries  should  be  kept  uncovered,  and  in  a  cool,  shady  place.  They  will  not 
keep  long. 

GROCERIES;  ETC. 

The  following  suggestions  about  keeping  some  of  the  more  important  articles 
in  this  line  will  be  helpful  to  many. 

Butter  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  and  airy  place— but  entirely  excluded  from  the 
air  and  in  as  large  a  mass  as  possible.  When  ice  is  not  obtainable  in  hot  weather, 
get  some  saltpetre,  dissolve  it  in  cold  water,  and  put  a  pan  of  butter  in  it  almost 
as  far  as  the  top;  lay  a  clean  cloth  over  the  butter,  and  let  the  corners  rest  in  the 
saltpetre  water;  keep  the  jar  in  a  cool,  dark  place;  this  will  keep  it  fresh  and 
moist.  Another  plan,  which  will  keep  it  cool  and  hard  without  ice,  is  to  set  a 
plate  of  butter  under  a  crock,  and  cover  it  with  wet  cloths  as  directed  for  keep- 
ing milk  without  ice.  Butter  absorbs  odors  readily,  and  should  never  be  put  in 
any  place  which  is  tainted  with  odors,  from  vegetables  or  anything  else,  nor 
should  it  be  left  exposed  to  the  air  in  occupied  rooms.  It  becomes  rancid  when 
freely  exposed  to  the  air.    Leaving  butter  in  water  spoils  it. 

The  best  way  to  keep  butter  from  the  air  is  to  put  it  in  a  crock  or  tub,  and 
spread  common,  coarse-grained  salt  to  ~%  or  %  inch  in  depth  on  top;  then  coyer 
with  a  cloth  and  lay  anything  flat  on  top  of  the  crock.  The  salt  by  long  keeping 
will  turn  to  brine,  which  will  effectually  keep  out  the  air,  and  may  easily  be 
poured  off  at  any  time.  If  kept  in  a  cool,  sweet  room,  however,  good  butter  will 
keep  without  the  brine. 

To  keep  butter  sweet  when  it  seems  likely  to  taint,  take  some  lime  water  and 
put  the  vessel  containing  the  butter  into  it,  leaving  it  there  until  the  sweetness  is 
restored. 

Rancid  butter  may  be  sweetened  and  recovered  (1)  by  washing  and  kneading 
it  well,  first  in  new  milk,  and  afterwards  in  cold  spring  water;  butyric  acid,  on 
which  the  rancidity  depends,  being  freely  soluble  in  new  milk.  (2).  Beat  the 
butter  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water,  in  which  you  put  25  to  30  drops  of  lime 
chloride  to  each  pound  of  butter.  After  mixing  it  till  all  its  parts  are  in  contact 
with  the  water,  it  may  be  left  in  from  1  to  2  hours;  afterwards  withdraw,  and  re- 
peatedly wash  in  fresh  water.  (3).  Melt  the  butter  and  skim  as  for  clarifying; 
then  put  into  it  a  piece  of  bread  thoroughly  toasted  all  over.  In  1  or  2  minutes 
the  butter  will  loose  its  offensive  smell  and  taste.  (4).  Thoroughly  mix  1  tea- 
spoon of  soda  and  1  tablespoon  of  salt  for  each  pint  of  butter;  then  add  equal 
parts  of  butter  and  cold  water,  set  on  the  stove,  and  bring  all  to  a  boil;  then  re- 
move, let  cool,  and  take  off  the  butter;  it  will  be  sweet,  and  good  for  cooking. 
(5).  A  little  saltpetre  worked  into  butter  that  has  become  sour  or  rancid  will 
render  it  sweet. — Remember  that  great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  burn  butter 
when  trying  it  out. 

A  word  about  rancid  butter.— Nobody  eats  it  on  bread,  but  it  is  sometimes  used  in  cooking, 
although  it  really  ruins  every  dish  into  which  it  enters.    It  is  injurious,  and  many  cases  of  - 
dyspepsia  can  be  directly  traced  to  rancid  butter.    It  should  never  enter  into  the  composi- 
tion of  any  dish  which  appears  on  the  table.    Sweeten  it  or  throw  it  away. 

To  keep  butter  hard  in  hot  weather,  without  ice,  invert  a  large  crock  of  un- 
glazed  earthenware  over  the  dish  containing  the  butter,  (a  large,  clean  flower- 
pot will  answer);  the  porousness  of  the  earthenware  will  keep  the  butter  hard  if 
the  pot  is  wrapped  in  a  wet  cloth.  Another  way  is,  after  one  meal  is  served,  take 
a  silver-plated  butter-dish,  clean  and  wash  it,  then,  when  cool,  place  on  it  sufficient 
butter  for  the  next  meal;  set  the  dish  in  a  shady,  airy  place  (in  a  draft  if  possi- 
ble); wet  a  clean  towel  with  cold  water,  cover  the  dish  tightly  with  the  towel  and 
let  it  stand  until  the  next  meal;  the  evaporation  of  the  water  will  cool  the  butter. 

Milk  should  never  be  mixed;  that  is,  do  not  put  the  evening's  milk  in  with 
what  was  left  over  from  the  morning;  the  one  will  spoil  the  other.  Never  use  a 
milk  jug  or  can  that  is  not  perfectly  clean;  the  least  impurity  adhering  to  the 
bottom  or  sides  will  be  sufficient  to  taint  it.  In  hot  weather  if  much  milk  is  ta- 
ken in  the  morning,  scald  it  at  once  and  it  will  keep  good  through  the  day. 


KEEPING  PROVISIONS.  45 

Never  let  milk  stand  a  moment  in  the  sun,  and  do  not  let  it  stand  in  zinc,  copper 
or  brass  vessels,  nor  in  earthen  vessels  lined  with  lead  glazings,  as,  if  it  sours  at 
all,  the  lactic  acid  will  attack  these  metals  and  taint  the  milk.  Well  tinned,  the 
best  glazed,  or  wooden  vessels  are  unobjectionable  if  properly  cleaned.  There 
can  be  no  question  but  what  the  germs  of  contagious  diseases,  like  scarlet  fever, 
diptheria,  etc.,  have  been  transmitted  by  milk.  It  is  a  great  absorbent  of  gases, 
etc.,  and  should  never  be  left  uncovered  in  any  occupied  room,  like  a  sitting- 
room  or  bedroom. 

Adding  a  little  baking  soda  to  milk  will  keep  it  from  souring  rapidly.  In 
souring,  the  milk  sugar  turns  into  lactic  acid,  which  is  neutralized  by  the  alkaline 
soda.  The  flavor  of  the  soda  will  not  be  apparent  in  milk  soups,  etc.  A  little 
borax  added  to  milk  suppresses  the  incipient  lactic  fermentation  which  produces 
its  souring.  The  little  borax  thus  taken  with  the  milk  is  harmless,  and  it  will 
keep  the  milk  unaltered  for  some  time.  'Milk  is  so  ready  a  transmitter  of  dis- 
ease germs,  that  inhabitants  of  cities  and  towns  would  do  well  to  scald  all 
they  use.  Milk  can  also  be  canned  like  fruit;  take  glass  jars,  fill  them  with  milk, 
screw  the  lids  on,  and  put  them  in  a  steamer,  which  should  be  set  over  cold 
water;  then  slowly  heat  it,  and  for  about  an  hour  steam  the  jars;  finally  the  tops 
should  be  tightened  again,  and  the  milk  will  keep  for  many  days.  A  little  cal- 
cined magnesia  or  grated  horseradish  is  sometimes  added  to  milk  to  retard  its 
souring. 

Milk  slightly  turned  may  be  sweetened  and  rendered  fit  for  use  by  stirring  in 
a  little  soda;  the  alkali  neutralizes  the  lactic  acid.  Sour  milk  can  be  scalded, 
which  will  render  it  sweet  again;  the  curd  and  whey  will  separate,  and  in  bread, 
the  latter  is  better  than  shortening. 

As  salt  curdles  new  milk,  it  should  not  be  added  to  milk  preparations  until  the 
dish  is  prepared. 

To  keep  milk  without  ice  put  it  in  a  tin  pail,  cover  it  with  a  wire  gauze;  then 
spread  over  it  several  layers  of  coarse  cloth  or  carpet,  which  is  thoroughly  wet 
with  water,  and  set  it  in  a  cool,  shady  place,  where  there  is  a  draft  if  possible;  the 
evaporation  from  the  cloth  will  cool  and  keep  the  milk  as  well  as  most  refrigera- 
tors. 

Cream  may  be  kept  for  24  hours  if  scalded  without  sugar,  and  by  the  addition 
of  sugar  it  will  remain  good  twice  as  long,  if  kept  in  a  cool  place. 

Cheese. — When  uncut,  this  only  needs  to  be  kept  dry.  After  being  cut,  it 
should  be  wrapped  in  a  buttered  paper  and  hung  in  a  cloth  bag  in  the  air;  or 
wrap  it  in  a  linen  cloth,  and  keep  it  in  a  box,  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Cheese,  as  well 
as  milk  and  butter,  will  absorb  strong  odors,  and  should  be  kept  away  from  them. 
Cheese  excluded  from  the  air  quickly  molds,  but  it  should  be  thoroughly  guarded 
from  flies  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag  of  2  thicknesses. 

The  mites  which  attack  cheese  are  so  small  that  they  appear  to  the  eye  like  animated 
dust.  The  best  way  to  treat  them  is  to  rub  them  off,  ana  then  brush  the  cheese  over  with 
hot  lard,  and  repeat  the  process  at  intervals.  Mites  are  not  to  be  confounded  with  skippers 
which  are  the  larvae  of  a  little  fly,  and  which  find  their  way  into  the  interior  of  cheese,  or 
into  parts  of  cheese,  after  being  cut. 

Eggs. — These,  unless  perfectly  fresh,  cannot  be  kept  under  any  circumstances. 
Store  them  in  a  cool  place,  and  avoid  changes  of  temperature.  In  packing  them, 
always  place  the  small  end  downwards.  Eight  parts  of  bran  to  1  of  quicklime, 
makes  an  elegant  packing  for  eggs  in  transportation.  There  are  various  methods 
of  keeping  eggs,  the  following  being  the  best:  (1).  Select  perfectly  fresh  eggs, 
and  put  a  dozen  or  more  at  a  time  into  a  willow  basket;  immerse  this  for  5  sec- 
onds in  boiling  water  containing  5  lbs.  common  brown  sugar  to  each  gallon  of 
water.  Immediately  after,  place  the  eggs  on  trays  to  dry.  The  scalding  water 
causes  the  formation  of  a  film  of  albumen  next  the  inner  surface  of  the  shell,  and 
the  sugar  closes  all  the  pores.  Pack,  when  cool,  small  end  down,  in  an  intimate 
mixture  of  1  part  finely  powdered  charcoal  to  2  parts  of  dry  bran.  Eggs  thus 
stored,  have  kept  perfectly  for  6  months.  (2).  Dip  each  egg  separately  in  melted 
parafine,  perfectly  covering  its  surface;  then  pack  as  before.  (3).  Use  2  pints 
of  fresh  slacked  lime  and  1  pint  of  common  salt  to  each  pail  of  water,  and  mix 
well.  Fill  a  barrel  half  full  of  this  liquid,  and  eggs  put  in  it  after  June,  will  keep 
for  weeks.  (4).  Pack  the  eggs,  not  too  close  together,  in  clean,  dry  sawdust  or 
bran;  they  will  keep  for  several  weeks.    (5).  Dip  the  eggs  into  a  solution  of 


46  KEEPING  PEOVISIONS. 

silicate  of  soda,  kept  liquid  by  adding  a  little  tepid  water;  then  dry  them,  pack 
down,  and  they  Will  keep  a  year  or  more.  (6).  Rub  the  eggs  with  linseed  oil, 
and  place  them,  small  end  down,  in  sand.    They  will  thus  keep  for  months. 

The  philosophy  of  keeping  eggs  consists  in  the  fact,  that  the  shells  are  porous,  and 
through  these  little  openings  or  pores,  the  water  inside  will  evaporate  and  air  enters  to 
take  its  place.  The  air  which  enters  thus,  carries  in  bacteria  which  cause  decomposition, 
and  hence,  coating  the  shell  with  anything  which  keeps  the  water  in  and  the  air  out,  pre- 
vents decay.  The  evaporation  of  the  water  and  entering  of  the  air  is  what  makes  a 
stale  egg  lighter  than  a  fresh  one. 

Dried  Eggs. — The  eggs  are  beaten  to  a  uniform  consistency,  and  spread  out  in 
thin  cakes  on  batter  plates;  this  dries  them  in  a  paste,  which  is  to  be  packed  in 
close  cans  and  sealed.  When  required  for  use,  the  paste  can  be  dissolved  in 
water  and  beaten  to  a  foam,  like  fresh  eggs.  It  is  said  that  eggs  can  be  pre- 
served for  years  in  this  way,  and  retain  their  flavor. 

Coffee. — This  should  be  kept  from  the  air  in  a  tightly  closing  canister.  Coffee, 
like  butter  and  milk,  will  absorb  exhalations  from  other  substances,  and  thus 
sometimes  acquires  a  bad  flavor.  This  should  be  borne  in  mind  in  storing  it.  It 
is  best  not  to  grind  it  until  just  before  it  is  used.  As  the  green  berry  improves 
with  age,  and  will  keep  2  or  3  years,  it  can  be  profitably  bought  by  the  sack. 

Tea. — Exposing  tea  to  the  air  destroys  its  flavor,  so  that  it  should  be  kept  in 
tightly  closing  glass  or  tin  canisters.  Tea  will  yield  nearly  twice  as  much 
strength  if  it  is  ground  or  crushed  just  before  pouring  on  the  hot  water,  but  the 
pulverized  tea  sold  in  the  market  is  apt  to  be  tea  sweepings  and  not  good. 

Flour  and  meal  of  all  kinds  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Flour  will 
absorb  odors,  so  that  it  should  not  be  stored  near  anything  odorous,  like  fish, 
onions,  etc.  Keep  the  temperature  even,  and  neither  extremely  cold  nor  warm. 
Properly  kept,  it  improves  with  age.  It  should  be  sifted  and  warmed  before  be- 
ing used  in  cold  weather.  Flour  and  meal  have  a  tendency  to  absorb  moisture, 
and  when  moist,  they  decompose  more  readily,  and  the  lower  forms  of  life  are 
apt  to  develop  in  them,  so  keep  them  dry  and  well  covered. 

Meal,  sago,  macaroni,  semolina,  and  similar  substances,  are  sometimes  at- 
tacked by  mites.  They  are  so  small  as  to  be  invisible  singly,  but  a  peculiar  fine 
powder  is  to  be  seen  at  the  top  of  the  farina;  there  is  also  a  smell  something  like 
honey  or  fermentation.  They  never  appear  in  a  dry  storeroom,  but  are  some- 
times brought  from  the  grocer's.  The  only  thing  to  be  done  when  they  appear  is 
to  burn  the  infected  stock,  and  heat  the  jar  almost  red  hot  before  using  it  again. 

Rice  and  all  seeds  should  be  kept  dry,  and  closely  covered  to  keep  them  from 
insects;  they  should  be  examined  occasionally  even  then. 

Jams  and  Preserves  should  be  kept  as  dry  as  possible.  If  the  outside  of  the 
jar  feels  damp  to  the  touch  at  any  time,  be  sure  the  place  is  a  bad  one.  At  once 
wipe  them  dry  with  a  cloth,  and  remove  to  drier  quarters. 

Honey. — To  keep  honey  after  it  is  strained  from  the  comb  or  wax,  simmer 
gently,  skim  off  the  whitish  foam  which  rises  to  the  surface,  and  it  will  become 
perfectly  clear.  Put  it  in  jars,  when  cool,  and  cover  tightly.  The  vessel  used  for  boil- 
ing should  be  earthen,  or  tin.  To  keep  honey  in  the  comb,  selectcombs  free  from 
pollen,  pack  them  edgeways  in  jars  or  cans,  and  pour  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
the  boiled  and  strained  honey  (as  above)  to  cover  the  combs;  then  cover  the  jars 
with  cloth  or  leather,  and  tie  tightly.  Twenty  years'  trial  proves  these  recipes 
to  be  good. 

Honey  heated  in  a  can  to  200°  F.,  and  then  closed  air  tight,  will  not  granulate 
again  while  thus  sealed  up. 

Maple  Sugar. — To  keep  this,  run  the  soft  sugar  into  jars,  and  cover  it  with 
that  which  is  just  right  to  cake;  it  will  retain  its  flavor  indefinitely. 

Lard,  to  keep  from  Molding. — Lard  made  from  intestinal  fat  will  not  keep  as 
well  as  leaf  lard.  It  should  be  soaked  2  or  3  days  in  salted  water,  changed  each 
day.  If  properly  tried,  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  in  perfectly  clean  crocks,  it 
will  not  be  likely  to  mold.  See  the  recipe  for  keeping  it  sweet  in  the  article  on 
curing  meats.    Fresh  lard  may  be  kept  in  tin  vessels. 

Suet. — To  keep  suet,  choose  that  which  is  firmest  and  freest  from  skin  and  veins; 
remove  all  traces  of  these;  then  put  the  suet  in  the  saucepan,  at  some  distance 
from  the  fire,  and  let  it  melt  gradually;  when  melted,  strain  into  molds,  fold  in  a 
white  paper,  put  it  in  a  linen  bag,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place.    When  used, 


KEEPING  PROVISIONS.  47 

it  must  be  scraped,  and  it  will  make  an  excellent  pie  crust  with  or  without  butter. 
Thus  prepared,  it  will  keep  a  year. 

Beef  Suet  can  be  kept  through  the  year  for  cooking  purposes,  if  sliced  and 
packed  in  strong  brine,  like  any  salted  meat.  When  needed  for  cooking,  take  the 
needed  quantity,  rinse  off  the  brine,  and  try  it  out  in  the  frying-pan.  It  also 
supplies  the  place  of  lard  or  butter,  if  rendered  and  put  away  as  lard. 

Salt.—  The  principal  thing  in  keeping  salt,  is  to  keep  it  dry — store  it  in  the 
dryest*place  you  have.  If  it  becomes  damp  in  the  salt  cellars  or  elsewhere,  dry 
it  in  the  oven  and  crush  it  again.  Mixing  a  little  corn-starch  in  the  salt  used  in 
salt  cellars  or  for  the  table,  will  keep  it  from  becoming  lumpy;  use  about  1  part 
corn-starch  to  5  parts  salt. 

Spices. — These  are  best  kept  in  small,  tightly  closing  tin  boxes  or  glass  bottles, 
with  a  clear  label  on  each  one,  so  that  it  can  be  selected  without  loss  of  time. 

Soap. — If  hard  soap  is  bought  in  quantities,  and  kept  till  it  hardens  well,  it 
will  waste  less  in  using. 

Cider,  to  Keep  Sweet.— Vee  only  sound  apples.  Make  the  cider  when  the 
weather  is  almost  cold  enough  to  freeze  the  apples.  Expose  the  cider  during  freez- 
ing weather,  and  stir  it  till  the  whole  is  reduced  as  near  the  freezing  point  as  pos- 
sible without  freezing.  Then  barrel  it,  bung  up  tight,  and  place  in  a  cellar  kept 
nearly  down  to  the  freezing  point.  As  long  as  kept  cold  enough,  it  will  not  fer- 
ment, and  as  long  as  it  will  not  ferment,  it  will  not  sour. 

Vinegar,  if  bought  by  the  keg,  should  be  kept  in  the  cellar,  in  a  cool  place.  A 
little  can  be  kept  in  the  kitchen,  in  a  tightly  corked  jug,  from  which  to  fill 
cruets.  Keep  vinegar  in  wood,  glass  or  earthen  vessels,  as  its  acid  will  act  on 
brass,  copper  or  glazed  ware,  producing  a  poisonous  compound. 

Yeast. — Keep  this  stored  in  glass  or  wooden  vessels.  Ordinary  beer  yeast 
may  be  kept  fresh  and  fit  for  use  for  several  months,  by  placing  it  in  a  close  can- 
vass bag,  and  gently  squeezing  out  the  moisture  in  a  screw  press,  the  remaining 
matter  becomes  as  stiff  as  clay,  and  must  be  kept  in  close  vessels. 

Food  of  all  kinds  will  keep  longer  if  cooled  quickly;  the  quicker  it  cools,  the 
longer  it  keeps.  Remember  this  especially  of  bread  and  soups.  Before  putting 
bread  or  cake  into  a  jar  or  box,  see  that  they  are  fully  cooled,  otherwise  the  steam 
will  cause  them  to  mold.  Any  cooked  food  placed  in  a  cellar  or  refrigerator 
without  being  quite  cool,  will  absorb  a  disagreeable  odor  from  the  confined  air. 

Bread  or  cake  should  be  kept  in  a  closely  covered  stone  jar  or  tin  box.  If  you 
have  any  crusts  or  pieces  of  stale  bread,  do  not  throw  them  away,  but  dry  them 
in  a  moderate  oven;  they  can  then  be  rolled  on  a  board  into  crumbs,  and  they 
will  be  useful  for  anything  that  is  breaded,  like  cutlets,  croquettes,  etc.  Waste 
nothing.  Stale  cake  may  be  worked  into  puddings,  while  pieces  of  stale  bread 
can  also  be  utilized  for  puddings,  or  for  toast,  dressing  for  meat,  etc.  Save  all 
soups  and  gravy  also,  as  a  little  of  either  will  add  to  many  dishes. 

Exposing  to  Sunlight. — Never  let  milk,  cream,  butter,  salad  oil,  or  any  food 
containing  it,  stand  for  a  single  moment  where  the  rays  of  the  sun  will  strike  it. 
Oils  and  fats  of -every  kind  should  be  kept  from  the  air  and  sunlight  as  much  as 
possible.  The  chemical  action  of  the  sun's  rays,  and  even  long  exposure  to  light, 
gives  to  fats  a  sun-burned  taste,  which  is  expressed  by  an  old  provincialism  as 
"bingy."  You  can  easily  know  this  taste  by  leaving  a  bit  of  bread  and  butter 
lying  in  the  sun  for  a  while  and  then  eating  it,  or  rather  trying  to  eat  it,  for  you 
will  not  eat  much. 

When  food  comes  from  the  market,  it  should  receive  proper  care,  which  is  not 
always  given  it.  Meat,  milk,  cream,  butter,  and  in  fact  all  foods  attract  in  a 
greater  or  lesser  degree,  any  impure  odors  near  which  they  may  be  placed.  The 
whole  contents  of  a  large  refrigerator  may  be  ruined  by  a  bit  of  putrid  meat, 
which  has  been  overlooked  by  a  careless  servant.  The  refrigerator,  larder,  cellar, 
cupboards  and  closets  where  food  is  stored,  whether  cooked  or  uncooked,  should 
be  inspected  at  least  once  a  day  by  the  housekeeper,  to  see  that  nothing  is  spoil- 
ing. Unless  this  is  done,  especially  in  hot  weather,  there  is  danger  that  illness 
may  result  from  eating  fermenting  food,  or  that  more  food  material  may  be 
wasted  than  is  placed  on  the  table. 


SOUPS. 

Soups  are  of  2  kinds;  the  heavy,  rich  soups,  made  from  stock  prepared  the  day 
before,  with  the  addition  of  other  ingredients  on  the  day  of  serving,  and  plain 
soups,  made  entirely  in  the  morning  before  dinner.  These  latter  will,  no  doubt, 
be  more  useful  for  ordinary  occasions,  being  lighter,  and  quite  as  palatable,  and 
they  certainly  are  more  economical  than  those  made  from  stock. 

Soups  are  made  by  cooking  meat,  fish  or  vegetables  in  water  or  milk,  and  they 
are  seasoned  with  a  great  variety  of  flavorings.  If  you  see  a  recipe  calling  for  a 
great  variety  of  ingredients,  many  of  which  you  do  not  have,  you  will  find  that 
you  can  often  use  what  ingredients  you  do  have  and  still  produce  a  very  good 
soup,  as  many  of  the  ingredients  can  be  omitted  without  much  loss — it  will  sim- 
ply change  the  flavor  a  little.  Remember  that  the  2  important  points  with  soups 
are,  (1)  their  nutritive  properties,  which  are  extracted  from  the  meat,  fish,  etc., 
and  (2)  the  flavoring  derived  from  herbs,  spices,  etc.,  added  for  that  purpose. 
Some  soups  will  contain  a  good  deal  of  nourishment  and  others  very  little;  some 
will  be  very  highly  and  others  only  slightly  flavored.  The  names  are  often  given 
to  soups  because  of  their  principal  ingredients,  as  with  "Beef,"  "Chicken,"  "Po- 
tato," or  "Cabbage  Soup,"  and  sometimes  because  of  the  color,  as  "White,"  or 
"Brown  Soup,"  while  often  they  are  purely  fanciful.  By  bearing  these  things  in. 
mind,  and  by  studying  the  principles  involved  in  extracting  the  nutritive  proper- 
ties from  the  fish  or  meat,  the  inexperienced  cook  can  soon  master  the  mysteries 
of  soup  making,  and  she  can  then  easily  make  new  and  appetizing  combinations 
for  herself. 

The  Utensils  Used. — The  soup-kettle  or  stock-pot  for  an  ordinary  family 
should  hold  from  6  quarts  to  2  gallons.  The  allowance  of  soup  for  each  person  is 
a  half  pint,  and  unless  the  family  is  very  large,  a  kettle  of  this  size  will  give 
ample  room  for  a  full  supply,  after  straining  from  the  soup  material.  The  best 
kettle  is  of  iron,  and  if  kept  scrupulously  clean  (as  all  cooking  utensils  should  be) 
it  will  not  discolor  the  soup.  If  anything  should  happen  to  turn  color  in  it,  there 
is  nothing  harmful  in  the  oxide  of  iron,  whereas,  some  articles  of  food  are  made 
poisonous  if  prepared  in  brass,  copper,  or  lead,  especially  acid  foods,  if  allowed  to 
stand  in  those  vessels.  The  soup-kettle  should  be  high  in  proportion  to  the  size, 
as  only  a  small  surface  in  contact  with  the  hot  range  is  needed  for  the  long,  slow 
simmering  required  in  the  preparation  of  soups.  A  kettle  of  that  form  takes 
less  room  on  the  range,  and  when  dinner  is  being  prepared,  this  is  desirable. 
Other  utensils  used  in  the  preparation  of  soups  are,  1  coarse  and  1  fine  colan- 
der, and  2  or  3  squares  of  cheese-cloth  for  strainers.  The  cloth  strainer  should 
be  boiled  in  water  with  a  little  cooking-soda  added.  If  boiled  in  soap,  the  odor 
is  apt  to      remain  in  the  cloth,  giving  a  bad  flavor  to  the  soup. 

The  Principles  Involved  in  Soup  Making. — Many  cooks  have  little  idea  of 
the  principles  involved  in  extracting  the  nutritive  properties  from  meat,  but  they 
are  quite  simple,  and  are  as  follows:*  Fibre,  fat,  gelatine  and  albumen,  with  ex- 
tractives and  salts  (to  which  some  writers  give  the  name  of  osmazome)  are  the 
component  parts  of  all  meats.  Fibres  swell  up  and  soften  when  subjected  to  the 
action  of  hot  water.  They  are  a  valuable  and  nourishing  food,  but  are  insoluble 
in  water,  and  constitute  nearly  all  that  remains  of  meat  after  long  boiling.  Fat 
is  dissolved  by  boiling,  but  as  it  is  contained  in  cells  covered  by  a  very  fine  mem- 
brane which  never  dissolves,  a  portion  of  it  always  adheres  to  the  fibres.  The 
other  portion  rises  to  the  surface  of  the  stock,  and  is  that  which  has  escaped 

*Count  Rumford,  writing  of  his  experiments  in  feeding  the  Bavarian  army,  says:  "I  con- 
stantly found  that  the  richness  or  quality  of  a  soup  depended  more  upon  the  proper  choice 
of  the  ingredients,  and  the  proper  management  of  the  fire  in  the  combination  of  these  in- 
gredients, than  upon  the  quantity  of  solid  nutritious  matter  employed;  much  more  upon 
the  art  and  skill  of  the  cook  than  upon  the  sums  laid  out  in  the  market."  To  which  we  may 
add,  that  the  poor  suffer  more  from  the  common  lack  of  skill  than  the  rich,  because  they 
are  least  able  to  bear  the  losses  it  entails,  and  therefore  we  say,  that  to  no  class  is  a  clear 
understanding  of  the  principles  of  cookery  so  important  as  to  the  poor. 

(48) 


SOUPS.  49 

from  the  cells  which  were  not  whole,  or  which  have  burst  by  boiling.  Fat  is  also 
added  to  thickened  soups,  where  it  combines  with  starch  and  does  not  rise  to  the 
surface.  The  gelatine  is  soluble  in  water,  and  is  the  basis  and  nutritious  portion 
of  soup  stock.  It  is  the  gelatine  which,  when  enough  of  it  is  present,  causes  the 
stock  to  become  a  jelly  when  cold.  Albumen  surrounds  the  fibres  of  meat  in  its 
soluble  state,  just  as  it  exists  in  an  unboiled  egg.  It  is  soluble  in  cold  or  tepid 
water,  but  it  begins  to  coagulate  at  145°  and  sets  into  a  jelly  at  160°,  for  which 
reason  it  is  evident  that  if  the  water  is  boiling  when  the  meat  is  put  in,  or  if  it  is 
afterwards  made  to  boil  up  quickly,  the  albumen  will  harden,  and  will  form  a 
thin  case  or  shell  which  will  prevent  the  gelatine  and  osmazome  from  dissolving, 
and  the  result  will  be  a  thin  and  tasteless  stock.  Albumen  partially  dissolved, 
makes  the  cloudy  appearance  of  soup  and  jelly;  coagulated  albumen  is  removed 
as  scum.  Scum  is  wasted  food.  It  is  well  also  to  know  that  the  size  of  the  piece 
of  meat  affects  the  solubility  of  the  albumen,  as  the  part  farthest  from  the  sur- 
face will  receive  enough  heat  to  be  coagulated  before  it  is  dissolved,  if  the  piece 
is  large.  The  extractives  and  salts  (osmazome)  are  soluble  in  water,  cold  or  hot, 
and  they  give  flavor  and  perfume  to  the  stock.  The  flesh  of  old  animals  contains 
more  than  that  of  young  ones,  and  brown  meats  contain  more  than  white,  and 
make  the  stock  more  fragrant.  By  roasting  meat,  a  portion  is  converted  to  cara- 
mel; therefore,  by  putting  the  remains  of  roast  meats  in  the  stock-pot  a  better 
flavor  is  obtained.  Choose  lean  rather  than  fat  meat  for  soup.  See  also  what 
we  say  elsewhere  about  the  principles  involved  in  cooking  meats. 

Bones  are  composed  of  gelatine,  a  fatty  fluid  something  like  marrow,  and  an 
earthy  substance,  to  which  they  owe  their  solidity.  As  much  gelatine  is  con- 
tained in  2  oz.  of  bone  as  in  1  lb.  of  meat,  but  it  is  so  encased  in  the  earthy  sub- 
stance, that  usually  only  the  surface  is  dissolved  in  boiling  water;  when  the 
bones  are  broken,  there  are  more  surfaces,  and  more  gelatine  is  dissolved;  and  by 
reducing  the  bones  to  powder,  all  the  gelatine  can  be  obtained.  Long  continued 
boiling  is,  therefore,  needed  for  bones,  and  this  boiling  should  continue  until  the 
earthy  matter  is  full  of  little  empty  holes  where  the  gelatine  once  was,  and  until 
the  bone  has  lost  %  of  its  weight.  They  should  boil  for  days  rather  than  hours. 
The  best  way  to  break  bones  is  to  pound  them  roughly  in  an  iron  mortar,  adding 
a  little  water  from  time  to  time  to  prevent  their  heating.  It  is  a  great  saving  to 
thus  utilize  bones  which  are  often  entirely  wasted.  If  the  bones  are  finely 
broken,  tie  them  up  in  a  bag  and  put  them  in  the  stock-pot.  Now  gelatine  forms 
the  basis  of  stocks,  but  although  nourishing,  it  is  without  taste,  and  so  stock 
made  entirely  of  it,  is  not  liked.  Flavoring  and  salts  are  needed  to  make  it  palat- 
able, and  when  meat  and  vegetables  are  added  to  the  cooking  bones,  they  make 
the  stock  savory. 

Stock. — When  meat  is  used  solely  to  make  stock,  cut  it  into  very  small  pieces, 
put  it  into  cold  water,  and  heat  very  slowly;  but  if  you  wish  to  have  stock  and  a 
piece  of  savory  meat  also,  choose  the  freshest  meat,  and  have  it  cut  as  thick  as 
possible,  for  if  it  is  a  thin,  flat  piece,  it  will  not  look  well,  and  will  be  soon  spoiled 
by  the  boiling.  It  is  impossible,  however,  to  have  first  rate  stock  and  good 
boiled  meat  at  the  same  time,  as  the  two  objects  are  diametrically  opposed.  As 
it  extracts  all  the  juices  from  the  surface  .of  meat  to  wash  it,  that  should  never 
be  done  unless  it  is  absolutely  necessary.  Add  cold  water,  and  put  the  stock-pot 
on  a  gentle  fire  and  heat  it  gradually.  The  albumen  will  dissolve  if  it  is  never 
heated  above  160°,  and  will  not  coagulate,  but  as,  in  this  state,  it  is  much  lighter 
than  water,  it  will  rise  to  the  surface,  and  this  is  what  makes  the  scum.  The 
rising  of  the  hardened  albumen  {scum)  has  the  same  effect  ia  clarifying  stock  as 
the  white  of  eggs  (which  is  albumen)  and,  as  a  rule,  it  may  be  said,  that  the  more 
scum  there  is,  the  clearer  the  stock  will  be.  If  you  want  clear  stock,  remove  the 
scum  when  it  rises  thickly.  Do  not  let  the  stock  boil  fast,  because  then  part  of 
the  scum  will  be  dissolved  and  another  part  will  go  to  the  bottom,  thus  making 
it  difficult  to  obtain  a  clear  broth.  Always  try  to  have  the  fire  very  regular,  as 
then  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  add  cold  water  in  order  to  make  the  scum  rise; 
but  if  the  fire  is  too  warm  at  first,  that  will  be  necessary.  If  fried  onions  are 
added  to  stock,  tie  them  in  a  little  bag,  as  they  may  cloud  it  without  this  pre- 
caution.   Generally  speaking,  the  longer  the  stock  simmers,  the  better  it  will  be. 

Removing  Fat. — The  English  and  Americans  prefer  soup  with  the  fat  re- 
moved; it  has  become  the  fashion  and  the  fat  is  thought  to  look  badly,  but  the 


50  SOUPS. 

fat  is  food,  and  quite  nutritious.  The  common  people  on  the  continent  prefer 
their  soup  covered  with  "  eyes "  (fat).  The  scum  is  coagulated  albumen,  and  if 
clean  meat  was  used,  the  scum  will  not  be  objectionable;  it  is  certainly  nutritious, 
and  to  throw  it  away  is  clear  waste.  Its  presence  is  not  noticeable  in  thickened 
soups  as  it  is  mingled  in  and  hidden  by  the  other  ingredients.  Those  who  want 
clear  soups  can  easily  make  them,  but  it  is  well  to  understand  that  they  are  less 
nutritious  than  others.  In  invalid  cookery  the  fat  is  removed  because  the  stom- 
ach is  then  weak,  and  often  not  able  to  digest  it,  but  with  healthy  people  the  case 
is  different. 

When  it  is  desired  to  remove  the  fat,  soup  can  be  allowed  to  stand  until  next 
day,  and  it  can  then  all  be  taken  off;  then  the  soup  can  be  re-warmed.  Or  any 
surplus  fat  on  the  surface  of  soup  may  be  removed  (after  skimming  off  as  much 
as  possible  with  a  spoon)  by  drawing  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  across  it,  which 
will  remove  all  the  remaining  fat.  Or  to  take  fat  from  soups,  sauces,  etc.,  thor- 
oughly wet  a  cloth  with  cold  water  and  pour  the  stock  through  it;  the  coldness  of 
the  cloth  will  coagulate  the  fat,  which  will  collect  on  the  cloth;  repeat  if 
necessary;  if  any  particles  of  fat  remain,  take  them  off  with  blotting  paper  as 
above.  The  fat  on  the  cloth  can  be  removed  and  clarified,  and  is  good  for  many 
purposes. 

Flavorings. — Add  vegetables  used  for  flavoring  about  an  hour  before  serving 
soup;  that  is,  do  not  add  them  until  the  juices  are  nearly  extracted  from  the  meat. 
Wash  and  pare  the  vegetables,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  and  keep  them  in  cold 
water  until  ready  to  add  them  to  the  soup.  They  can  be  first  blanched  or  par- 
boiled if  very  strong  or  old.  If  desired,  a  part  or  all  of  the  vegetables  can  be 
fried  before  being  added  to  the  soup;  potatoes,  cabbages  and  onions  are  better 
for  being  boiled  in  separate  water  before  being  added.  Parsley,  summer  savory 
and  celery  are  also  often  used;  onions  and  garlic  we  speak  of  in  the  next  paragraph. 
Some  cooks  occasionally  use  cloves,  bay  leaf,  nutmeg,  etc.  For  a  variety,  try  a 
little  caraway  seed  in  potato  soup.  Just  before  serving,  add  the  salt  and  pep- 
per. The  flavoring  of  all  food  is  an  important  matter  and  should  never  be 
slighted.  For  soups  and  stews  the  best  rule  is  to  combine  several  flavors  without 
having  any  one  of  them  too  prominent.  As  boiling  spoils  the  flavor  of  wines  and 
catsups,  if  they  are  added,  it  should  not  be  until  just  before  serving.  Unless  the 
soup  is  to  be  thick,  no  flavor  should  be  added,  but  if  some  of  the  meat  and  veg- 
etables used  are  fried,  it  will  improve  the  color  and  flavor,  but  be  sure  nothing, 
either  meat  or  vegetable,  is  added,  which  will  have  the  taste  of  being  smoked  or 
burnt.  Great  richness  may  often  be  given  to  soups  by  the  addition  of  fried  cu- 
cumbers. Cut  off  celery  leaves,  dry  them,  and  put  them  in  a  tin  can,  and  you 
will  have  them  the  year  round  to  flavor  soups. 

Using  Onions. — Onions,  garlic  and  shallot  are  disliked  by  so  many  people, 
that,  in  making  stock,  or  any  of  the  quickly  made  soups,  it  is  better  to  leave  them 
out;  but  as  many  people  consider  soup  flavorless  without  those  vegetables,  a  dish 
of  stewed  onions,  garlic  or  shallot  may  be  cooked  separately,  and  on  serving  it,  a 
little  can  be  added  to  the  soup  given  to  those  who  like  such  flavors.  In  this 
way,  soup  either  with  or  without  onions  can  be  served  from  the  same  tureen. 

Onion  juice  for  flavoring  can  easily  be  obtained  by  peeling  and  mincing  an 
onion  and  squeezing  it  in  an  ordinary  lemon  squeezer,  or  cheese-cloth.  The  odor 
can  be  removed  from  the  squeezer  and  knife  by  washing  them  in  cold  water. 

Garlic  is  an  eastern  plant  which  has  been  cultivated  from  ancient  times.  It  belongs  to 
the  same  family  as  the  onion,  and  possesses  its  properties  in  an  intensified  degree.  It  is 
much  used  in  Italian,  Spanish  and  French  cookery,  but  very  little  in  English  and  Ameri- 
can. It  is  very  wholesome,  assists  digestion,  and  acts  as  a  slight  stimulant  and  tonic.  It 
possesses  much  medicinal  value.  As  a  rule,  in  using  garlic,  it  is  not  chopped,  but  the  flavor 
is  imparted  simply  by  rubbing;  cut  a  little  off  of  the  end  of  the  garlic,  and  rub  it  on  the  dish 
in  which  the  food  to  be  flavored  is  placed. 

The  Chive  is  a  plant  belonging  to  the  same  family  as  the  leek  and  onion,  being  the 
smallest  of  the  onion  tribe.  Its  properties  are  similar  to  the  onion,  and  it  is  used  like  that 
in  soups,  sauces,  salads,  etc.,  but  it  is  much  stronger,  and  only  about  %  as  much  is 
needed. 

The  Leek  belongs  to  the  same  order  as  the  shallot,  garlic  and  onion.  It  possesses  simi- 
lar properties  to  the  onion.  It  is  very  succulent  and  wholesome,  but  to  prevent  tainting  the 
breath  it  should  be  well  boiled. 

The  Shallot,  Shalot  or  Eschalot,  is  a  native  of  Palestine.  It  was  introduced  into 
Europe  by  the  Crusaders.  It  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  the  common  onion,  but  its  fla- 
vor is  stronger,  and  it  does  not  leave  an  unpleasant  odor  behind.  The  leaves  of  the  plant 
may  be  cut  while  growing,  and  used  like  young  onions.    It  is  used  for  high  flavored  soups 


SOUPS.  51 

and  gravies,  and  is  excellent  when  pickled.  Shallot  vinegar  is  used  for  flavoring  soups, 
sauces,  hashes,  etc. 

Rocambole  is  often  called  Spanish  Shallot,  and  belongs  to  the  order  IMiacoe.  It  is  very 
similar  to  garlic,  but  is  milder. 

The  Sorrel  (Rumex  Acetosa)  is  a  hardy  perennial,  which  grows  in  Europe,  Asiatic  Russia 
and  North  America.  It  grows  in  any  good  garden  soil,  and  when  fully  grown,  the  leaves 
are  gathered  singly,  and  they  are  used  to  flavor  soups,  salads  and  sauces.  Sorrel  was 
known  to  the  Romans,  who  sometimes  stewed  it  with  mustard,  and  seasoned  it  with  a  lit- 
tle oil  and  vinegar.  It  is  not  much  used  in  English  and  American  cookery,  but  is  used  con- 
siderably in  France.  Its  acid,  which  is  very  pronounced,  is  a  combination  of  oxalic  acid 
with  potash,  called  by  chemists,  binoxalate  of  potash. 

Broth  can  be  changed  and  often  improved  in  flavor  by  using  2  or  3  kinds  of 
meat  at  the  same  time;  for  example,  with  beef  a  little  liver  can  be  added,  or  with 
veal  a  piece  of  ham. 

For  seasoning,  salt,  Whole  and  ground  pepper,  both  black  and  white,  cayenne, 
allspice,  ginger,  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon  should  be  ready.  Whole  pepper  is 
always  used  for  white  soups,  as  ground  pepper  makes  them  look  dusty.  As  herbs 
and  spices  are  more  easily  removed  from  soup,  by  straining,  when  whole  than 
when  ground,  it  is  better  to  use  them  whole. 

Be  chary  of  seasoning  and  spices.  A  little  of  these  things  will  go  a  long  way. 
But  a  very  little  sugar  judiciously  added  will  often  be  found  to  greatly  improve 
the  flavor.  Never  indulge  over  freely  in  onion  or  shallot  in  soups.  The  condi- 
ments should  not  be  added  until  just  before  the  simmering  is  completed,  in  any 
soup,  as  they  will  harden  the  meat  etc.,  with  which  they  come  in  contact. 

If  too  much  salt  is  added  by  mistake,  its  taste  may  be  modified  by  adding  2  or 
3  teaspoons  of  vinegar;  its  acid  will  partially  neutralize  the  alkaline  salt;  then 
add  a  little  sugar  to  mask  the  taste  of  the  vinegar. 

Altering  Recipes. — In  order  to  be  sure  of  the  result,  care  should  be  taken  in 
measuring  all  the  ingredients,  to  use  the  exact  quantities  called  for  in  a  recipe, 
but  if  all  the  ingredients  are  changed  in  the  same  proportion  (as,  for  example, 
using  twice  as  much,  or  %  or  %  as  much  of  each  one)  the  result  will  not  be  af- 
fected. It  should  be  said,  however,  that  except  in  those  cases  like  the  cooking  of 
meat  and  vegetables,  the  baking  of  bread,  etc.,  where  definite  chemical  laws  ap- 
ply (which  cannot  be  violated  without  loss)  the  rules  of  cooking  are  not  absolute 
and  unchangeable.  The  large  class  of  materials  combined  for  producing  flavors 
(as  in  soups,  etc.)  can  be  varied  indefinitely,  according  to  convenience  and  the 
materials  at  hand.  Whenever  you  get  hold  of  a  recipe  calling  for  numerous  ar- 
ticles for  flavoring,  some  of  which  you  do  not  have,  you  can  often  use  the  recipe, 
putting  in  the  flavorings  you  do  have,  or  substituting  others  for  those  you  lack, 
and  still  produce  a  very  good  dish,  although  it  will  of  course  be  a  new  one — or,  if 
not  judiciously  done,  it  may  not  be  so  good !  Those  who  have  mastered  the  prin- 
ciples of  cookery  and  acquired  a  little  experience  can  devise  many  new  and  excel- 
lent recipes. 

No  further  general  directions  will  be  needed  for  making  soups,  as  special  di- 
rections accompany  each  recipe.  The  experienced  cook  can  vary  the  rules  ac- 
cording to  the  tastes  of  her  family,  while  the  novice  in  cookery  will  find  the  best . 
results  by  adhering  strictly  to  the  recipes  as  given,  as  they  have  been  tested  and 
found  good. 

STOCK  FOR  SOUP. 

All  meat  and  bones,  scraps  and  trimmings,  used  in  making  stock,  or  plain 
soup,  must  be  perfectly  fresh,  for  the  least  taint  in  the  meat  is  sure  to  spoil  stock 
or  soup.  Soft  water  is  also  required,  as  this  extracts  the  juices  from  the  meat, 
and  gelatine  from  the  bones,  much  better  than  hard  water.  The  proportion  of 
meat  and  water  for  stock  is  about  1  pound  of  meat,  bones  and  trimmings  for  2 
quarts  of  water.  The  slow  boiling  does  not  much  reduce  the  quantity,  but  a 
little  boiling  water  may  be  added  from  time  to  time  if  any  appreciable  quantity 
has  evaporated.  When  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones,  it  can  be  taken  out  and 
used  in  making  various  side  dishes  found  under  the  head  of  "  Meats" — the  bones 
remaining  longer  for  the  extraction  of  gelatine. 

Mutton,  lamb  and  pork  are  not  good  for  stock,  as  the  flavor  of  the  former  is 
unpleasant  when  re-cooked,  and  pork  is  too  oily  to  use  in  this  way,  although  many 
cooks  do  use  ham  bones  in  soups.  Beef  makes  the  best  stock,  as  the  flesh  of  ma- 
ture animals  contains  more  osmazome;  an  old  fowl  is  a  great  addition  to  stock. 
Veal  alone  makes  a  fine  white  stock,  but  not  so  savory.    Bones  ought  always  to 


52  SOUPS. 

form  a  component  part  in  the  soup-kettle  when  making  stock,  and  they  should 
be  finely  broken,  in  order  to  extract  all  the  gelatine. 

Watch  the  stock-pot  until  it  is  ready  to  boil,  then  carefully  take  off  all  the 
scum  as  fast  as  it  rises.  When  thoroughly  skimmed,  set  back  on  the  range 
where  it  will  just  simmer — do  not  boil  rapidly  as  this  hardens  the  albumen.  It 
may  be  kept  simmering  on  a  gas,  or  kerosene  stove,  if  fire  is  not  needed  for  other 
purposes.  Stock  while  cooking  should  not  be  tightly  covered.  A  sieve  should 
be  placed  over  the  kettle  to  keep  out  flies,  but  close  covering  prevents  the  stock 
from  being  clear.  The  vegetables  used  in  making  stock,  are  turnips,  carrots, 
onions  or  garlic  and  celery.  The  meat  should  slowly  cook  4  or  5  hours,  and  the 
vegetables  the  last  hour,  as  vegetables  should  only  be  added  in  time  to  become 
thoroughly  done  when  used  in  any  soup;  then  strain  it  through  the  cloth  strainer 
(called  by  foreign  cooks  a  "  tammy")  into  a  tin  pail,  or  deep  tin  pan,  as  it  cools 
more  quickly  in  tin  than  in  any  other  vessel.  The  pail  or  pan  must  be  entirely 
tinned,  for  if  the  tin  is  off  the  vessel,  the  stock  may  be  discolored  by  standing  in 
contact  with  iron;— the  salt  in  the  soup  will  attack  the  iron,  and  cause  rust. 
While  boiling,  the  salt  does  not  attack  the  kettle  unless  it  is  new  and  rough,  be- 
cause, after  using  a  smooth  kettle  for  a  while,  the  pores  of  the  iron  become  filled 
with  the  fat  of  the  meats  cooked  in  it.  Place  the  tin  containing  the  stock  in  an 
airy  place,  in  the  shade,  where  it  will  cool  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  cover  it  with 
a  sieve  to  keep  out  the  flies.  When  it  is  cooled,  place  it  uncovered  in  the  ice  chest 
for  the  fat  to  rise.  The  stock  should  be  a  firm  jelly  and  will  keep  for  a  week  in 
the  ice-chest.  The  next  day  after  making  it,  the  fat  can  all  be  removed  from  the 
top  of  the  stock,  and  used  in  cooking  vegetables.  Wipe  the  top  of  the  stock  with 
a  dry  cloth,  and  then  with  a  little  cloth  wet  with  extract  of  cloves  to  prevent  its 
molding. 

For  ordinary  cooking,  especially  in  hot  weather,  it  is  better  to  make  stock  one 
day,  for  the  soup  of  the  following  day,  rather  than  take  the  risk  of  having  it 
mold  or  sour.  Remember  that  it  must  be  cooled  as  quickly  as  possible  without 
other  covering  than  a  sieve,  which  facilitates  the  escape  of  steam,  and  conse- 
quently the  cooling  of  the  stock,  and  at  the  same  time  keeps  out  the  flies.  If 
tightly  covered,  and  the  stock  is  a  long  time  in  cooling,  it  will  ferment  and  sour, 
when  it  becomes  poisonous.  If  only  beginning  to  turn,  it  is  said  that  it  may  be 
restored  by  tying  some  charcoal  in  a  bag,  putting  it  in  the  stock,  and  then  boil- 
ing it. 

STOCK  No.  1. 

2  lbs.  shin  of  beef  well  broken.  3  carrots.  1  teaspoon  of  broken  -white  pepper. 

2  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal.  1  turnip.  1  teaspoon  of  sugar  caramel. 

1  gallon  cold  water.  1  head  of  celery.  1  blade  of  mace,  or  a  little  nutmeg. 

1  large  onion.  4  whole  cloves.  1  soup  bunch;  salt. 

STOCK  No.  3. 

1  old  fowl.  2  onions.  Salt  and  pepper. 

4  lbs.  veal  bones  well  broken.  2  carrots.  Cloves  and  herbs. 

1  gallon  of  cold  water.  1  turnip. 

STOCK  No.  3. 

4  lbs.  beef  shin-bones,  broken.  3  large  onions.  Salt  and  pepper. 

1  chicken.  3  large  carrots.  Cloves  and  herbs. 

1  gallon  cold  water.  1  turnip. 

VEAI   OR  WHITE  STOCK. 

Wipe  4  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal,  break  the  bones,  put  it  into  1  gallon  of  cold  water, 
heat  slowly,  and  simmer  4  hours,  skimming  well;  then  add  1  stalk  celery,  1 
onion,  1  bay  leaf  and  1  tablespoon  salt,  and  simmer  1  hour  longer.  It  should  jelly 
when  cold,  and  the  fat  can  easily  be  taken  off.  It  can  be  melted  for  use  and 
strained  through  cheese-cloth,  or  flannel,  or  clarified  with  egg  if  necessary  and  it 
is  wanted  very  clear. 

FISH   STOCK. 

Never  throw  away  the  water  in  which  fish  has  been  boiled;  it  is  valuable  for 
making  fish  sauce,  and  also  cheap  fish  soups — (soup  maigre).  Therefore,  in 
boiling  fish,  or  any  meats  whatever,  when  the  broth  is,  or  may  be  wanted  for 
stock,  be  careful  about  putting  in  too  much  salt.    Salt  in  quantity  is  not  needed 


SOUPS.  53 

for  boiling  fish — only  a  little  to  harden  it,  and  the  sauce  served  with  it  can  con- 
tain more  if  liked.  Many  kinds  of  fish,  after  boiling  in  j  ust  sufficient  water  to 
cover  them,  will  leave  the  broth  a  hard  jelly  when  it  is  cold.  This  of  course  contains 
nourishment,  and  the  next  day  can  be  utilized  for  a  fine  soup,  by  adding  the 
bones  and  remnants  of  the  boiled  fish  with  additional  seasoning  and  vegetables. 

Stock,  to  Clear  or  Clarify. — For  each  quart  of  jellied  stock,  the  whites  of  2 
eggs  are  required;  melt  the  stock  and  let  it  get  steaming  hot,  but  not  boiling; 
heat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  with  the  shells  which  have  been  washed  and  well 
crushed,  and  stir  into  the  hot  stock,  then  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point;  set  it 
back  on  the  range  and  simmer  15  minutes;  strain  through  a  flannel  bag;  keep 
returning  it  through  the  bag  until  it  runs  through  bright  and  clear.  In  cold 
weather  this  operation  must  be  near  the  fire  to  keep  the  jelly  from  setting.  The 
bag  must  be  made  of  fine,  thin,  new  flannel,  and  well  scalded  in  hot  water  con- 
taining a  teaspoon  of  borax,  or  cooking  soda.  Never  use  soap  in  cleaning  the 
bag,  or  other  strainers  used  in  making  soups  or  gravies,  as  the  odor  of  the  soap 
will  affect  the  flavor  of  the  soups.  Clearing  stock  extracts  the  flavor  and  nutri- 
tion, and  is  not  necessary  for  every-day  soups,  besides  being  too  expensive,  as 
well  as  consuming  too  much  time.  The  every-day  soup  only  needs  straining  and 
the  removal  of  superfluous  fat. 

To  Clarify  Soup,  when  desired,  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  with  a  small  cup  of 
cold  water  and  add  to  the  soup;  simmer  for  10  minutes,  and  then  strain  through 
the  "tammy,"  or  cloth-strainer. 

Hints. — Even  very  weak  stock  is  much  better  than  water  to  use  for  soups  and 
gravies,  vegetable  stock  being  better  than  none.  White  stock  is  made  of  veal, 
and  of  bones  which  have  been  boiled  once  or  contain  only  gelatine.  The  best 
stock  is  obtained  from  the  freshest  meat. 

Soup  meat  if  not  boiled  too  long,  can,  after  cooling,  be  finely  chopped,  seasoned 
to  taste,  and  heated  again  with  a  piece  of  butter.  If  not  moist  enough,  1  or  2 
spoonfuls  from  the  soup-kettle  may  be  added.  This  will  make  a  delicious  side 
dish,  or  nice  breakfast  dish  the  next  morning. 

If  a  good  soup  is  served  (which  can  be  made  of  the  cheapest  cuts  of  meat) 
with  bread,  it  is  almost  a  meal  in  itself.  Then  the  meat  can  be  served  as  bouilli, 
or  minced  and  made  delicious  by  judicious  seasoning  and  flavoring — it  is  much 
less  expensive  than  the  heavy  and  costly  large  joints.  French  cookery  is  pro- 
verbially inexpensive,  and  it  is  equally  renowned  for  its  delicacy.  In  France  just 
this  rule  of  cookery  is  most  often  followed.  But  it  should  be  remembered  that 
the  French  do  not  cook  the  soup  until  all  the  osmazome  and  nutrients  are 
extracted  from  the  meat.  If  cooked  until  all  the  nutrients  are  extracted  from 
the  fibres,  they  will  be  of  little  value,  as  needed  fibre  can  be  obtained  more 
cheaply  in  other  ways,  than  to  attempt  to  make  them  palatable  by  adding  the 
other  ingredients  necessary. 

Coloring  for  Soups. — The  favorite  coloring  for  soups  is  caramel,  or  scorched 
sugar  (not  burned).  This  not  only  gives  the  soup  a  fine,  amber  color,  but  also 
imparts  a  pleasant  flavor  to  the  soup.  Onions  fried  a  dark  brown,  will,  in  addi- 
tion to  caramel,  give  a  brown  color.  Many  cooks  fry  a  few  slices  of  the  soup- 
meat  a  dark  brown,  before  the  simmering  process  with  water  is  begun.  Pounded 
spinach,  and  puree  of  young  green  peas,  color  soups  green.  Saffron — only  a  very 
little  is  needed — will  give  soups  a  fine  golden  color,  and  tomatoes,  lobster  coral, 
well  pounded,  and  cochineal,  will  give  a  red  color  to  soups.  Pot-marigold,  leaves, 
stems  and  flowers,  are  used  by  the  French  to  color  and  flavor  soups.  (This  is  the 
Calendula  Officinalis,  Order  Composite).  Vegetables  sliced  thin  and  fried  in 
a  very  little  butter  till  nicely  browned,  and  then  put  into  the  soup  kettle,  will  im- 
part an  amber  color. , 

Lobster  Butter. — Take  lobster  coral  (not  the  little  red  eggs  that  cling  to  the 
outside  of  the  lobster,  but  the  red  lumps  inside  when  it  is  cut  open  down  to  the 
tail);  wash  it  carefully,  removing  every  morsel  of  the  flesh  or  green  part,  as  that 
may  turn  it  after  it  is  made.  Add  a  little  butter  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar — the 
less  butter  used  the  better,  but  it  must  be  pounded  until  perfectly  smooth  and 
free  from  grit;  then  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  nutmeg,  which  will  preserve 
it.  About  half  fill  jelly  glasses  with  it,  set  it  in  the  oven  till  thoroughly  hot,  press 
it  down,  pour  on  a  little  melted  parafine  or  clarified  butter,  and  tie  on  paper 


54  SOUPS. 

dipped  in  egg.    It  can  be  used  to  color  soups,  etc.,  and  will  keep  a  long  time. 
Coral  from  crayfish  can  be  used  instead  equally  well. 

ADDITIONS  TO   SOUPS. 

Quenelles  or  Force-Meat,  Croutons  and  Nudels  or  Noodles  are  additions  to 
soup  used  by  foreign  cooks.  Curry-powder  and  various  sauces  are  also  used  for 
flavoring  rich  soups  for  banquets  and  dinners  of  ceremony,  and  can  be  used,  if 
liked,  in  the  preparation  of  side  dishes  made  from  soup-meat,  in  warming  the  re- 
mains of  boiled  and  roasted  meat. 

Croutons  (pronounced  Kru '  -tons). — These  are  bits  of  bread  cut  in  small  dia- 
monds, sqares,  cubes,  or  in  fanciful  shapes.  They  are  fried  brown  in  butter,  and 
used  in  soups  and  as  a  garnish  for  side  dishes  and  entrees  of  meat. 

Forcemeat  or  Quenelles  (pronounced  Kee '  -nells). — This  is  made  of  equal  parts 
of  bread-crumbs,  beef -suet,  and  any  kind  of  raw  meat  excepting  mutton,  lamb, 
or  pork.  Poultry  and  game  make  excellent  force-meat,  but  veal  is  most  com- 
monly used.  The  suet  and  meat  must  first  be  cut  finely,  then  chopped,  and 
lastly  pounded  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  any  pulver- 
ized herbs,  if  liked. 

To  1  pound  of  meat  and  1  of  suet,  allow  4  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  and 
mix  with  the  paste,  and  work  through  a  wire  sieve  or  fine  colander  to  take  out 
any  fibres  that  may  remain  in  the  meat.  To  the  strained  mixture  add  the 
bread-crumbs  which  have  been  previously  dried,  pulverized  and  sifted;  then 
take  up  the  mixture  in  a  teaspoon,  and  with  another  teaspoon  form  and  smooth 

the  quenelles  in  shape 
like  a  small  egg;  they  are 
then  dropped  in  boiling 
water  for  10  minutes  to 
poach.  When  a  soup  is 
to  be  served  with  them, 
'  place  them  in  the  tureen, 
forming  quenelles.  ^*°H^  "f  and  pour  the  hot    soup 

over  them.  Another  way 
toprepare forcemeat  balls  is  to  shape  the  above  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of 
marbles,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  until  a  light  brown. 

Suet  Dumplings  for  Soup. — Take  3  cups  sifted  flour,  sift  in  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  and  then  rub  in  well  1  cup  of  finely  chopped  suet;  add  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  as  stiff  as  biscuit  dough;  then  form  it 
into  balls  about  the  size  of  oranges,  flour  them  well,  and  %  hour  before  serving 
the  soup,  put  them  in  it;  the  cover  should  not  be  taken  off,  and  to  make  them 
nice  they  should  boil  steadily  until  ready  to  serve.  They  make  a  kind  of  pot-pie. 
Noodles  or  Nudels. — To  1  egg  add  a  little  salt,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
paste.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  a  wafer,  then  roll  up  as  you  would  jelly-cake.  Slice 
off  the  end  in  fine  strings,  shake  out  loosely  and  cook  in  the  soup  for  10  minutes 
before  taking  it  up;  or  the  dough  may  be  rolled  out  a  little  thicker  than  pie-crust, 
and  cut  in  rounds  with  a  tiny  biscuit  cutter;  or  it  may  be  divided  in  2,  then  4, 
then  8  parts,  and  so  on  until  the  pieces  are  the  size  of  a  gooseberry  when  rolled 
in  the  hand.  Roll,  and  boil  them  in  the  soup  for  15  minutes  before  taking  it 
up.  The  German  nudels  are  made  much  the  same  as  this,  but  they  use  no  salt, 
as  that  they  think  makes  them  sticky  when  cooked. 

Soup-bunch. — This  is  a  bunch  of  young  onions  or  leeks,  carrots,  and  various 
herbs  to  be  found  in  the  market  in  most  large  places,  such  as  green  sage,  thyme, 
marjoram,  etc.;  celery-tops  are  sometimes  included.  The  onions,  carrots  and 
other  vegetables  can  be  cut  in  pieces  for  the  soup,  but  the  herbs  are  best  folded 
in  thin  muslin  and  taken  out  after  10  minutes'  simmering  in  the  soup. 

Soup-Bouquet.  —A  bouquet  of  herbs  for  flavoring  soups  and  sauces  is  much 
used  by  foreign  cooks,  and  is  made  of  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  thyme,  celery 
leaves,  1  or  2  leaves  of  sage  and  a  bay  leaf.  This  may  be  folded  in  a  small  square  of 
tarlatan  or  other  thin  cloth,  and  wound  with  a  thread.  This  can  be  put  in  the 
soup  for  a  little  time,  and  all  removed  without  trouble  when  the  soup  is  served. 
Thickening  for  Soup.— Clear  soup  may  be  thickened  with  a  little  corn-starch, 
and  still  preserve  its  transparency.  For  brown  soups,  browned  flour  is  much 
better  than  the  raw  for  thickening.    Put  into  a  small  sauce-pan  %  lb.  of  butter, 


SOUPS.  55 

and  when  hot,  stir  into  it  2  cups  of  flour.  Stir  this  over  the  fire  till  it  is  a  pale 
brown,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  One  large  tablespoon  thickens  a  quart 
of  soup. 

Flour,  arrowroot,  bread-crumbs,  sago,  rice,  oatmeal,  barley,  macaroni  and 
vermicelli  are  all  put  into  soup  to  thicken  it.  They  all  have  this  in  common, 
that  the  soup  must  actually  boil  to  burst  the  starch  granules  after  they  are 
added.  Floury  substances  must  be  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water,  milk 
or  broth,  before  being  added  to  the  bulk  of  the  broth.  Eggs,  when  added,  should 
be  beaten,  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  warm  liquid,  strained  into  the'soup,  and  not 
afterwards  allowed  to  boil,  lest  they  harden  in  tiny  lumps,  or  what  is  popularly 
called  " curdle."  The  yolk  is  better  to  use  than  the  white.  "Body"  may  be 
given  to  soup  by  adding  a  little  cold  potato,  grated,  and  mashed  potato  is  some- 
times added,  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  milk.  Flour  can  be  cooked  in  a  little 
butter  and  then  added,  which  is  probably  better  than  first  mixing  it  in  cold 
water  as  above.  Barley,  when  added,  should  be  soaked  over  night,  and  then 
stirred  in  an  hour  before  the  soup  is  done.  With  rice,  use  1  tablespoon  to  1 
quart  of  soup,  and  add  it  about  30  minutes  before  it  is  done.  Farina  can  be 
sprinkled  in  a  short  time  before  serving,  allowing  it  to  boil  a  little  while. 

Caramel  for  Soup. — Put  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  in  a  frying-pan  and  place  on  the 
stove;  let  it  dissolve  and  brown,  but  not  burn.  When  it  has  turned  a  bright 
golden  color  and  begins  to  smoke,  add  water  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
pan;  let  it  boil  up  and  dissolve  the  caramel;  then  pour  into  the  soup  for  coloring 
and  flavor.  This  is  not  to  be  used  in  any  white  soup.  If  you  have  prepared  cara- 
mel on  hand,  use  that.    See  our  recipe  given  elsewhere  for  preparing  it. 

Browned  Crackers. — These  are  a  fine  addition  to  soups,  and  are  good  for  in- 
valids with  tea  or  coffee.  The  crackers  are  first  split  and  a  little  butter  spread 
on  the  halves;  they  are  then  placed  on  a  baking  tin,  with  the  split  and  buttered 
side  up;  set  them  in  a  hot  oven,  on  the  top  shelf,  and  they  are  done  when  of  a 
delicate  yellowish  brown.  They  need  watching  very  closely,  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing.   They  are  delicious  with  soups,  fish  chowder  and  oyster  stews. 

Egg-Balls  for  Soup.— Powder  some  hard-boiled  yolks  of  egg,  and  add  suf- 
ficient raw  yolk  to  make  the  mixture  into  a  paste  that  can  be  rolled;  add  some 
pepper,  salt,  a  little  finely-chopped  parsley,  and  a  "suspicion"  of  nutmeg;  roll 
into  balls  the  size  of  marbles.  Dip  the  balls  into  flour  and  throw  them  into  boil- 
ing water  till  they  are  set;  then  drain  them  and  throw  them  into  the  soup  before 
serving.    They  can  also  be  used  to  garnish  entrees. 

Virginia  Flavoring. — Take  thyme,  mint,  sweet  marjoram,  and  rosemary  gath- 
ered in  full  perfection;  pick  from  the  stalks,  put  them  in  a  large  jar,  pour  on 
strong  vinegar,  and  let  stand  24  hours;  then  take  out  the  herbs,  throw  in  fresh 
bunches,  and  do  this  3  times;  then  strain  the  liquor,  put  it  in  bottles,  cork  and 
seal  tight.  Do  not  let  the  herbs  stay  in  more  than  24  hours  at  one  time,  else  a 
bitter,  unsavory  taste  may  be  imparted.  What  is  wanted,  is  just  the  delicate  first 
flavor  which  comes  from  steeping  the  herbs  in  the  liquid.  It  makes  a  delicious 
flavor  for  soups  and  sauces. 


VEGETABLE  SOUPS. 

Almond  Soup. — Blanch  and  pound  finely  1  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  and  the 
hard  boiled  yolks  of  4  eggs;  beat  these  well  together,  and  add  to  a  gallon  of  hot 
stock;  let  it  come  to  boiling  and  stir  constantly;  thicken  with  bits  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  and  just  before  serving,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  a  coffee  cup  of  rich 
cream.  Have  the  Whites  of  the  eggs  cut  in  small  pieces  in  the  tureen,  pour  over 
it  the  hot  soup  and  serve. 

Asparagus  Soup. — Break  off  all  that  is  tender  from  a  bundle  of  fresh,  green 
asparagus,  and  put  this  in  a  large  pan,  with  a  large  handful  of  freshly  gathered 
spinach,  1  of  parsley,  and  the  same  of  spring  onions.  Wash  in  2  waters  and  drain 
in  a  sieve;  then  boil  in  2  quarts  of  water,  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  salt. 
As  soon  as  the  asparagus  is  done,  rub  all  through  a  fine  colander  and  return  to 


56  S0U1»S. 

the  pot;  then  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg  (cut  in  bits  and  rolled 
in  flour),  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  a  sprinkle  of  white  pepper.  Serve  hot  with 
croutons. 

Barley  Soup.— Scald  10  tablespoons  of  pearled  barley;  drain,  cover  with  fresh 
boiling  water,  and  boil  3  hours.  Scald  a  quart  of  rich,  sweet  milk  and  add  to  the 
barley  when  done,  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolks  of  10 
eggs  to  a  foam  and  put  in  the  soup-tureen;  pour  over  the  barley  soup  and  serve. 

Bean  Soup. — Soak  1  cup  of  white  beans  over  night;  in  the  morning  boil  until 
quite  tender;  then  rub  through  a  colander,  and  add  3  pints  of  water  and  1 
quart  of  rich  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  3  large  potatoes  chopped  fine;  season 
with  finely  cut  parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Simmer  about "%  hour,  and 
serve  hot. 

Lima  Bean  Soup. — Put  a  quart  of  dried  Lima  beans  in  a  saucepan;  cover  "with 
boiling  water  and  boil  slowly  1  hour;  drain  and  pass  through  a  colander.  Scald 
a  pint  of  milk  and  add  to  the  beans.  Soak  a  pint  of  dried  Lima  beans  over  night; 
turn  off  the  water  in  the  morning,  and  put  on  the  fire  to  boil  slowly  for  2  hours, 
with  3  pints  of  water;  then  rub  through  a  colander.  Put  in  the  kettle  again  and 
add  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  and  thicken  with  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
"When  it  boils,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve  with  a  roll  at  each  plate. 

Bean  Porridge. — Soak  over  night  a  quart  of  any  kind  of  good  beans,  such  as 
are  used  for  baking;  boil  them  the  next  morning  in  plenty  of  water,  until  they 
begin  to  break  in  pieces;  then  drain,  and  add  them  to  any  good  broth  of  fresh  or 
salted  meat,  with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork  cut  in  dice.  Cook  and  stir  them  often, 
until  they  are  all  broken  fine.  This  is  a  most  nutritious  soup  to  keep  constantly 
on  hand  in  winter,  when  milk  is  scarce;  it  is  inexpensive,  for  the  broth  of  all  salted 
meats  and  "boiled  dinners"  can  be  used  in  preparing  it.  It  is  more  easily  diges- 
ted than  baked  beans,  being  less  concentrated  food.    Of  this  soup  it  was  said  in 

"olden  times:" 

"Bean  porridge  hot,  bean  porridge  cold, 
Bean  porridge  is  the  best  when  nine  days  old." 

Cabbage  Soup. — Cut  a  small  cabbage  in  quarters;  carefully  take  apart  and 
wash;  then  chop  finely.  About  l/2  hour  before  dinner,  add  it  to  2  quarts  of  stock, 
or  broth,  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled;  let  it  boil  until  dinner  time,  when  the 
cabbage  will  be  done.    Serve  with  toasted  bread. 

Carrot  Soup  (a  la  Cressy). — Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  the 
frying-pan,  and  when  melted,  add  1  large  onion  cut  finely,  a  slice  of  ham  cut  in 
little  squares,  a  teacup  of  chopped  celery  and  10  grated  carrots.  Stew  over 
the  fire  until  the  vegetables  begin  to  brown,  then  add  2  quarts  of  stock,  and  sim- 
mer for  2  hours.  Rub  all  through  the  coarse  colander,  put  back  into  the  kettle 
to  re-heat,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  with  a  few  dice  of  toasted 
bread  in  the  tureen.  This  is  good  made  with  3  pints  of  water,  adding  a  pint  of 
milk  or  cream  when  it  is  re-heated. 

Celery  Soup.— Break  apart,  and  carefully  clean  2  bunches  of  celery;  then 
cut  it  finely  and  boil  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  it,  until  it  is  sufficiently  cooked 
and  soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  coarse  colander;  scald  3  pints  of  milk  and  add 
to  the  celery,  and  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  with  half  a  small  onion  cut 
finely  if  liked;  then  rub  together  a  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  and  stir 
it  in  the  boiling  soup,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  with  strips 
of  toasted  bread  without  butter,  or  with  browned  crackers. 


SOUPS.  5? 

Celery  Cream  Soup.— Take  3  lbs.  veal,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  in  2  quarts  of 
water  till  reduced  one-half;  when  cold  it  will  make  a  jelly-like  white  stock. 
Take  some  celery,  cut  the  best  parts  small,  and  cook  it  until  tender  in  this  stock; 
now  put  it  through  a  colander  first,  and  then  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  it  will 
make  a  kind  of  paste;  return  this  to  the  saucepan,  add  2  pints  of  cream,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  it  simmer  10  minutes,  stirring  it  often.  It  is 
excellent. 

Green  Corn  Soup.— Grate  sweet-corn  from  6  ears,  and  boil  the  cobs  in 
sufficient  water  to  cover  them;  remove  them  after  10  minutes  boiling,  and  use 
the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled  to  stew  the  grated  corn;  just  before  it  is  time 
to  serve,  add  1  quart  of  rich,  sweet  milk,  letting  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Season 
well  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Cucumber  Soup. — Peel  the  cucumbers  (they  must  be  young  enough  to  have 
small,  fine  seeds)  and  put  in  a  kettle  to  boil  in  a  pint  of  water;  when  soft,  rub 
through  a  fine  colander  and  return  to  the  kettle,  with  a  little  onion  if  liked,  and 
seasoning  to  taste.  Add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  quart;  when  hot,  add  a 
little  corn-starch,  or  arrowroot  to  thicken  it,  and  serve  with  toasted  bread. 

FLEMISH  SOUP. 

5  heads  of  celery.  2  small  onions.  10  medium-sized  potatoes. 

1  pint  of  cream.  2  quarts  of  -water. 

Slice  the  onions,  celery  and  potatoes,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  just 
sufficient  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  them  until  they  can  be  rubbed  through 
a  fine  colander.  Return  to  the  kettle  with  the  water,  and  let  it  boil  up;  season 
with  salt  and  white  pepper,  or  a  little  curry  powder;  have  the  cream  scalding  hot, 
in  a  pitcher  standing  in  hot  water,  and  add  to  the  soup  just  before  serving.  If 
onion  is  disliked,  2  small  carrots  may  be  substituted  for  the  onions.  This  is  an 
economical  soup,  and  excellent.    Make  %  the  quantity  if  desired. 

Okra  or  Gumbo  Soup. — The  foundation  for  this  should  be  stock,  or  broth 
made  of  a  chicken,  or,  what  is  better  even  for  any  chicken  soup,  an  old  fowl. 
Carefully  pluck,  draw,  singe  and  wash  the  fowl;  cut  it  in  pieces,  cover  with  cold 
water,  put  on  to  boil  up,  skim,  and  then  place  the  kettle  where  it  will  slowly 
cook.  A  little  salt  may  be  added  if  the  fowl  is  young,  but  if  old,  simmer  for  an 
hour  before  adding  the  salt.  When  the  fowl  is  done,  take  up  the  breast,  thighs 
and  legs,  which  can  be  served  with  a  sauce  for  dinner,  or  made  into  salad;  then 
slowly  cook  the  remainder  of  the  fowl  to  "rags,"  after  adding  pepper,  a  little 
sweet  herbs,  and  a  trifle  of  cayenne,  and  an  even  teaspoon  of  powdered  sassafras 
leaves.  Strain  through  the  fine  colander  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Add  a  few 
slices  of  salt  pork,  if  the  fowl  was  lean,  then  wash  and  slice  a  quart  of  green  okra 
and  add  to  the  soup;  cook  until  the  pork  and  okra  are  done.  Serve  with  boiled 
rice,  boiled  onions  and  rolls  or  bread.    Good  and  inexpensive. 

Italian  Soups. — These  are  made  by  adding  to  hot  stock,  either  macaroni, 
vermicelli,  semolina,  or  other  Italian  pastes.  They  should  be  boiled  for  10  or  15 
minutes  in  water  to  cOver  them,  before  adding  them  to  the  stock.  Macaroni  and 
vermicelli  should  be  cut  in  short  pieces  about  half  an  inch  long,  before  being 
added  to  soup. 

Julienne  Soup. — For  a  soup  to  serve  for  5  or  6  persons,  take  2  or  3  middling-sized 
carrots  (only  the  red  parts),  a  middling-sized  turnip,  a  piece  of  celery-root,  the 
core  of  a  lettuce,  some  sorrel  leaves,  an  onion,  the  white  of  half  a  leek.  Rasp, 
peel  or  pluck  these  vegetables  according  to  their  nature;  wash,  drain  them,  and 


58  SOUPS. 

mince  them  to  "Julienne,"  that  is,  cut  them  in  thin  fillets  about  an  inch  long; 
carrots,  turnips,  celery  and  leek,  all  in  equal  lengths.  Fry  the  onion  and  leek  in 
a  little  butter,  then  add  the  carrots,  turnips  and  celery,  raw  if  tender,  if  not, 
blanch  them.  Season  with  salt  and  a  little  sugar,  and  add  2  quarts  of  good  stock. 
Let  it  simmer  for  %  of  an  hour  before  serving. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup. — Take  ^  can  of  tomatoes,  cook  until  tender,  and  strain; 
cook  2  pints  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  in  a  small  sauce-pan  cook  2  teaspoons  of 
corn-starch  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  adding  enough  of  the  hot  milk  to  make  it 
pour  easily;  now  stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk  carefully,  and  boil  about  10  min- 
utes. Cut  4  tablespoons  of  butter  in  small  pieces  and  add  it,  mixing  it  well,  and 
add  also  the  strained  tomatoes,  %  saltspoon  of  white  pepper,  and  1  teaspoon  of 
salt;  serve  hot.  Before  straining  the  tomatoes,  if  they  are  very  acid,  %  saltspoon 
of  soda  will  improve  them,  by  neutralizing  the  acid. 

Mushroom  Soup. — Cut  a  hip  of  veal  in  rather  large  pieces,  and  break  the 
bones;  allow  to  each  pound  a  little  less  than  a  quart  of  water.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  J£  dozen  blades  of  mace.  Boil  until  the  meat  falls  to  pieces;  then 
strain  into  a  clean  soup-pot.  Have  ready  a  quart  of  mushrooms,  peeled  and  di- 
vested of  their  stems;  put  them  into  the  soup,  adding  %  pound  of  butter  divided 
into  bits,  each  bit  rolled  in  flour.  Boil  until  the  mushrooms  are  tender;  keep 
closely  covered;  have  toasted  bread  in  small  pieces  in  the  soup-tureen,  and  pour 
the  soup  over  it. 

Noodle  Soup. — Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  until  light;  add  flour  and  a  little  salt. 
Mould  very  stiff,  then  roll  thin,  and  cut  in  narrow  strips,  about  an  inch  long. 
Put  in  boiling  water  for  10  minutes,  then  in  cold  water  for  3  minutes.  Add  this 
to  3  pints  of  hot  stock. 

Onion  Soup. — Use  1  medium-sized  onion.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg  into  a  sauce-pan,  or  spider,  and  slice  the  onion  into  it.  Let  it  fry  until  a 
delicate  brown.  Put  in  1  quart  of  stock  or  hot  water,  with  herbs  if  liked,  salt, 
white  pepper,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne.  Strain  into  the  tureen,  add  3  crackers, 
halved  and  well  toasted,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Palestine  Soup. — Peel  and  slice  a  quart  of  Jerusalem  artichokes,  4  onions  and 
1  head  of  celery.  Have  3  pints  of  water  in  the  soup-kettle,  or  white  veal  stock 
or  broth;  add  the  vegetables,  with  pepper,  salt,  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of 
sugar.  When  done,  rub  through  the  fine  colander,  and  return  to  the  kettle  to 
keep  hot;  add  a  pint  of  cream,  and  send  to  the  table  hot,  with  croutons. 

Canadian  Pea  Soup. — Put  a  quart  of  whole  hard  peas,  or  split  peas,  in  2  quarts 
of  cold  soft  water,  and  set  on  the  fire  in  the  morning.  Let  it  boil,  and  as  soon  as 
the  peas  begin  to  soften,  mash  with  a  long-handled  iron  spoon,  as  much 
as  possible,  and  skim  off  the  skins  as  they  rise  to  the  top  of  the  kettle.  About  10 
o'clock  add  to  the  peas  a  pound  or  more  of  salt  pork,  and  if  liked,  a  small  onion 
cut  finely.  Boil  together  until  noon,  then  take  out  the  pork,  add  a  little  salt  if 
needed,  and  a  bowlful  of  bread,  finely  shaved  from  the  loaf,  which  thickens  the 
soup  and  prevents  the  peas  from  settling  to  the  bottom  of  the  tureen.  This  is  a 
most  nutritious  and  palatable  soup.  The  pork  can  be  served  in  thin  slices,  with 
vegetables,  and  chili  sauce,  or  sour  baked  apples. 

Green  Pea  Soup.— Into  the  broth  in  which  a  leg  of  lamb  has  been  boiled,  put 
the  shells  of  a  quart  of  tender  young  peas;  let  them  boil  in  the  broth  for  J£ 
hour,  then  strain  out  the  shells  and  put  in  the  peas  to  boil  20  minutes  longer. 
Serve  with  any  "  soup-addition  "  liked. 


soups.  m 

Potato  Soup. — Slice  6  large  potatoes  and  boil  until  tender;  mash  fine  and  rub 
through  a  colander  into  the  soup-kettle;  add  2  quarts  of  sweet  milk.  When  it 
comes  to  boiling,  add  noodles  already  boiled  in  salted  water.  Season  the  soup  to 
taste,  and  serve. 

Pumpkin  Soup. — Peel  the  pumpkin  and  cut  into  pieces  (removing  the  seeds). 
Put  it  into  boiling  water  with  some  salt,  and  leave  it  to  boil  until  reduced  to  a 
pulp  thin  enough  to  pass  through  a  strainer.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter-  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  wine-glass  of  cream.  Strain  the  pulp  and  add,  with  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of  flour.  Let  the  whole  simmer  %  hour,  thicken  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  serve. 

Rice  Soup. — Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  1  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  in  a  skillet,  and  fry  them  as  thoroughly  brown  as  possible  without  burn- 
ing. When  sufficiently  browned,  pour  on  3  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  add  a 
pint  of  rice,  a  head  of  finely  cut  celery,  and  a  little  salt.  Stew  all  together  until 
the  rice  is  tender.  Add  a  cup  of  rich  milk  or  cream,  and  serve.  Half  the  above 
quantity  will  serve  a  small  family. 

Sago  Soup. — Wash  5  oz.  sago  in  warm  water,  set  it  in  a  saucepan  with  2  quarts 
of  milk,  and  simmer  until  the  sago  is  thoroughly  dissolved;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  add  a  cup  of  cream  before  serving.  Good  clear  stock  is  generally 
used  for  both  sago  and  tapioca  soup,  but  they  are  even  nicer  made  with  milk. 

For  Semolina,  Macaroni  and  Vermicelli  Soup,  see  "  Italian  Soups." 

French  Sorrel  Soup. — Take  a  large  handful  of  garden  sorrel;  wash  thoroughly, 
and  cut  finely  with  shears,  and  add  some  lettuce  leaves  and  sweet  herbs,  also 
finely  cut.  Drain  thoroughly  on  a  sieve,  then  put  them  in  a  frying-pan  with 
butter  already  melted,  and  fry,  stirring  with  a  spoon.  After  about  10  minutes  of 
cooking  in  this  way,  put  in  the  soup-kettle,  with  2  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and 
add  salt,  white  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter  well  rolled  in  flour.  Serve  rolls  with 
the  soup;  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced  into  the  tureen,  are  an  addition   much  liked. 

Tapioca  Soup. — Made  like  sago  soup,  which  see,  only  the  tapioca  must  be 
soaked  for  at  least  %  hour  in  warm  water  before  being  put  into  the  milk. 

Tomato  Soup. — Put  1  quart  of  tomatoes  in  1  quart  of  boiling  water  and  let 
them  cook  thoroughly;  set  1  quart  of  milk  in  a  pitcher  or  tin,  into  a  kettle  or  pan 
of  hot  water  to  scald.  When  the  tomatoes  are  done,  add  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  and 
when  foaming  ceases,  add  the  hot  milk  with  a  generous  lump  of  butter;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Cream  may  be  added  instead  of  butter,  and  more  milk  and  less 
water  used  if  desired.  Brown  a  few  crackers,  roll  fine  and  add  to  the  soup.  Serve 
with  small  pieces  of  dry  toast  without  butter. 

Tomato  Soup  No.  2. — One  pint  of  canned  tomatoes,  or  4  raw  ones,  cut  finely; 
add  1  quart  of  water  and  cook  thoroughly;  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  which 
causes  it  to  foam.  Immediately  add  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  with  a  little  salt  and 
butter.    When  this  boils,  add  8  small  crackers,  rolled  fine,  and  serve. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. — Soak  over  night  1  quart  of'  black  beans.  The  next  day 
boil  them  in  4  quarts  of  water,  until  soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  colander; 
return  them  to  the  soup-kettle.  Tie  in  a  bit  of  strainer  cloth  (which  must  be 
perfectly  clean)  a  bit  each  of  thyme,  parsley  and  summer  savory;  let  it  boil  in 
the  soup.  Add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  cut  in  bits  and  rolled  in  flour;  also  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  in  quarters  and  add  to 
the  soup,  with  2  sliced  lemons.    This  is  a  good  imitation  of  real  turtle  soup. 

Vegetable  Marrow  Soup. — Pare  and  cut  in  quarters  a  large  vegetable  marrow, 


60  SOUPS. 

and  remove  the  seeds  from  it.  Dissolve  a  slice  of  fresh  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  and 
put  in  the  marrow  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  a  lump  of  loaf  sugar  and  a  little 
nutmeg.  Stew  in  water  to  cover  it  until  it  will  pass  through  the  fine  colander, 
or  hair-sieve;  then  add  enough  scalding  hot  milk  to  make  it  the  consistency  of 
cream;  serve  with  fried  bread  cut  in  the  shape  of  small  dice. 

Victoria  Soup.— Wash  and  scald  %  pound  of  pearl  barley;  put  it  in  the  soup- 
pot  with  3  pints  of  white  veal  stock,  and  simmer  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  1% 
hours,  by  which  time  the  barley  will  be  nearly  dissolved;  remove  %  °f  it  to  a 
small  soup-pot,  rub  the  remainder  through  a  tammy  or  sieve,  pour  over  the  whole 
barley,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  season  with  a  little  salt,  stir  it  over  the  fire  until 
hot,  and  serve. 

This  soup  may  be  made  with  rice,  and  these  were  the  only  soups  eaten  by 
Queen  Victoria  during  the  time  Francatelli  was  chef  in  her  household. 

White  Soup. — White  soup  is  in  reality  white  sauce,  only  in  larger  quantities 
and  not  quite  so  strong.  White  soups,  such  as  celery,  cauliflower,  Palestine, 
potato,  vegetable  marrow,  have  all  the  same  basis,  viz.,  reduced  stock  and  boiling 
milk,  and  only  differ  as  to  which  stewed  vegetable  is  rubbed  through  the  wire 
sieve  and  added. 

MEAT,    POULTRY    AND    GAME    SOUPS. 

Alma  Mater  Soup. — For  this  take  a  sheep's  head  and  pluck.  Have  the  head 
cut  in  several  pieces  with  a  cleaver,  wash  thoroughly  in  salted  water  and  put  in 
the  soup-kettle  with  a  gallon  of  water;  cut  the  liver  and  heart  in  slices,  and  fry 
brown  in  a  little  butter,  then  add  to  the  soup;  simmer  gently  until  the  bones 
separate  from  the  meat.  At  this  stage  take  from  the  fire,  and  remove  all  the 
bones  from  the  meat;  cut  the  meat  in  very  small  pieces,  and  return  to  the  kettle; 
fill  in  with  hot  water  to  keep  the  gallon,  add  1  teacup  of  pearl  barley;  season 
with  4  cloves,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs;  cut  finely  2  onions,  2  car- 
rots, 1  turnip,  and  cook  untill  the  vegetables  are  done.  Serve  with  forcemeat 
balls. 

Beef  Soup. — Put  1  small  beef  bone  in  about  1  gallon  of  water;  when  it  has 
simmered  about  3  hours,  add  4  potatoes,  2  turnips,  2  onions,  and  2  tablespoons 
each  of  rice  and  barley;  season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  boil  1  hour  longer. 
Add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  celery  just  before  serving. 

Bonne  Femme  Soup  (Egg  £owp).— When  you  have  broth  in  which  meat  has 
been  boiled,  or  poultry,  even  if  thin  and  not  transparent,  a  good  soup  may  be 
made  when  eggs  are  plenty  by  boiling  for  20  minutes,  4  eggs  for  every  quart 
of  broth.  Throw  the  eggs  in  cold  water,  and  shell  them.  Have  the  broth  well 
strained,  and  put  it  back  in  the  kettle.  Cut  the  whites  of  the  eggs  in  rings,  and 
pulverize  the  yolks  with  a  fork  on  a  plate  (they  should  be  mealy  with  the 
boiling)  and  add  whites  and  yolks  to  the  broth,  also  a  few  bits  of  butter  well 
rolled  in  flour.    Do  not  boil  after  the  egg  mixture  is  put  in  the  kettle. 

Bouillon.— For  a  party  of  12,  allow  6  pounds  of  beef  cut  finely,  and  2  shin- 
bones  of  beef  well  broken.  Put  over  the  fire  with  3  quarts  of  cold  water,  and 
bring  to  a  boil.  Skim  thoroughly,  and  set  back  on  the  range  to  simmer  slowly 
for  5  hours;  then  strain  through  the  fine  colander.  Remove  every  particle  of  fat, 
which  can  be  done  by  drawing  the  edge  of  blotting  paper  across  the  bouillon. 
After  the  fat  is  removed,  return  to  the  kettle  and  reheat.     Season  with  pepper 


SOUPS.  61 

and  salt,  and  serve  in  bouillon-cups  (i.  e.,  cups  about  the  size  of  coffee-cups,  with 
2  handles)  when  served  at  lunches.  Cloudy  bouillon  is  caused  generally  by 
rapid  boiling  and  careless  skimming. 

Clear  Soup.— Cut  4  Bbs.  lean  beef  into  small  pieces,  carefully  removing  all  the 
fat;  pour  on  1  gallon  of  water,  and  boil  it  up  3  times,  skimming  well  each  time; 
if  not  well  skimmed,  it  will  not  be  clear.  Into  each  of  2  small  onions  stick  4 
cloves  firmly,  scrape  2  small  carrots,  and  put  them  into  the  soup;  add  6  blades  of 
mace,  1  bunch  of  parsley  and  1  teaspoon  of  celery  seed,  salt  and  pepper;  boil  un- 
til the  vegetables  are  tender,  strain  through  muslin,  and  return  to  the  soup  pot; 
add  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  boil  until  they  gather  to  one  side;  skim, 
and  tint  it  a  delicate  amber  with  a  little  caramel;  wash  the  muslin,  pour  the  soup 
through  again,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Soup. — This  need  not  be  made  wholly  of  young  spring  chickens,  for 
they  are  more  valuable  for  roasting  or  broiling;  but  the  remnants  of  raw  chickens 
when  used  for  fricassee  or  "  chicken  supreme,"  can  be  utilized  in  a  soup,  and  if  a 
large  quantity  of  soup  is  needed,  a  few  pounds  of  veal  bones  and  cheap  veal  trim- 
mings may  be  simmered  with  the  chicken,  which  will  flavor  them  all.  Let  the 
soup-pot  come  to  boiling;  skim,  and  then  set  on  the  back  of  the  range  to  slowly 
simmer  for  3  or  4  hours,  or  until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bones.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  or  a  little  curry  powder  instead  of  pepper,  and  a  soup-bunch; 
then  simmer  10  minutes  longer,  strain  through  the  cloth  strainer,  and  return  to 
the  kettle.  Thicken  with  a  little  corn-starch,  and  color  and  flavor  with  caramel. 
Serve  with  oyster  crackers. 

Chicken  Soup  No.  2. — Take  the  remnants  of  roasted  chickens— the  necks, 
wings,  all  the  bones,  and  every  part  left  from  dinner  the  day  previously;  add  wa- 
ter sufficient  to  cover  it  all;  slowly  simmer  until  the  meat  separates  from  the 
bones.  Then  add  any  gravy  or  remnants  of  dressing,  and  let  it  boil  up  once. 
For  the  remnants  of  2  chickens  there  should  be  3  pints  of  soup;  strain  through 
cheese-cloth  or  fine  colander,  put  the  soup  back  into  the  kettle,  add  more  season- 
ing if  needed;  thicken  with  bits  of  butter  well  rolled  in  flour;  boil  up  once,  and 
serve  immediately. 

Chicken  and  Gumbo. — Take  a  fair  sized  chicken,  cut  up  as  for  fricassee,  pick 
out  the  bones,  and  fry  with  %  K>-  finely  chopped  bacon.  Add  1  gallon  water,  2 
pints  small  okras,  and  the  same  of  tomatoes;  season  highly  with  white  pepper, 
salt  and  cayenne,  and  simmer  4  hours.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  boiled  rice  in  each 
plate  before  serving,;  and  pour  the  soup  over  it. 

Gumbo  filet  is  made  the  same  way,  but  seasoned  more  highly,  and  tender  roots 
of  young  sassafras  added.  Green  corn,  cut  from  the  cob,  and  lima  beans  are  also 
added  sometimes. 

CONSOMME. 

6  quarts  of -water.  4  pounds  of  lean  beef.  2  old  fowls. 

2  carrots.  2  turnips.  2  onions. 

2  leeks.  1  bunch  of  herbs. 

Let  it  simmer  slowly  for  8  hours,  or  till  it  is  reduced  to  2  quarts.  Observe  the 
usual  rule  of  skimming,  straining  and  seasoning,  and  use  for  dainty  appetites, 
with  quenelles,  or  any  garnish  liked  best. 

Duchess  Soup.— Put  a  quart  of  rich  stock,  or  consomme,  on  the  range  to  heat; 
when  it  comes  to  boiling,  thicken  it  with  a  tablespoon  of  arrowroot,  and  then 
pour  it  into  the  tureen  containing  neatly  cut  lengths  of  roasted  poultry  or  game. 

Egg  Soup.— Break  6  fresh  eggs  into  a  bowl;  add  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  and  a 


62  SOUPS. 

little  white  pepper  and  salt;  beat  the  eggs  well  and  add  the  cream;  pour  into  a 
square  tin  well  buttered,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  in  a  dripping-pan  of  hot  water, 
and  bake  about  x/i  hour.  Let  it  get  cold,  then  cut  in  small  squares,  put  in  the 
soup  tureen,  pour  2  quarts  of  hot  stock,  or  broth,  over  it,  and  send  it  to  the  table. 
Milk  may  be  used  instead  of  stock.  This  soup  is  rich  and  may  be  served  with 
hot  toasted  crackers  when  the  dinner  is  otherwise  light. 

Everyday  Soup. — Go  in  the  pantry  in  the  morning  and  put  into  the  soup- 
kettle  all  the  nice  meat  bones,  cold  bits  of  meat,  cold  gravy,  also  any  cooked  vege- 
tables left  the  day  before.  Get  ready  the  meat  for  dinner,  and  put  the  trimmings 
in  the  kettle.  Season  with  a  little  salt,  a  few  whole  cloves,  and  a  few  pepper- 
corns broken  in  the  mortar;  add  also  a  small  onion  cut  finely.  Put  in  the  kettle 
enough  water  to  serve  each  person  with  J^  pint  of  soup.  Simmer  all  together 
until  an  hour  before  dinner;  then  strain  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Have  ready, 
shredded,  and  standing  in  cold  water,  some  vegetable,  either  cabbage,  turnips, 
carrots,  asparagus,  green  peas  or  spinach,  and  add  to  the  soup.  When  the 
vegetable  is  done,  serve  with  rolls  or  bread. 

Florence  Soup. — Put  on  to  heat,  3  pints  of  white  stock,  beef,  veal  or  chicken 
broth,  and  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  half  pint  of  cream;  boil  3  or 
4  sticks  of  macaroni  in  salted  water  for  10  minutes;  cut  in  %  inch  pieces  and  add 
to  the  soup;  have  the  bottom  of  the  soup  tureen  covered  with  grated  cheese, 
pour  over  the  hot  soup,  and  serve. 

Game  Soup. — This  can  be  made  of  a  squirrel,  wild  duck,  rabbit  partridge, 
2  or  3  squabs  (young  pigeons)  or  any  kind  of  game  brought  in  in  too  small  a 
quantity  for  serving  in  any  other  way,  and  is  a  good  soup  for  an  invalid,  or  small 
family.  Dress  the  game  by  skinning,  if  a  quadruped,  or,  by  picking,  if  a  fowl  or 
bird.  Draw,  and  wipe  clean  with  a  wet  cloth.  Cut  in  small  pieces  and  boil 
slowly  until  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones;  then  take  out  the  bones  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  in  small 
bits,  roll  each  bit  in  flour;  add,  and  let  it  boil  for  %  minute,  and  serve  with  thin 
slices  of  bread  laid  on  the  bottom  of  the  tureen. 

Game  soup  can  also  be  made  by  a  recipe  for  stock,  using  game  instead  of  beef 
or  other  meat. 

Hotch-potch  Soup. — Soak  %  pint  °f  split  peas  over  night,  and  add  %  teaspoon 
of  soda  to  the  water;  the  next  morning,  turn  off  the  water  and  rinse  again;  then 
put  them  to  boil  in  2  quarts  of  water;  boil  slowly  2  or  3  hours;  then  add  a  pound 
of  beef  or  mutton,  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  small  cabbage,  an 
onion,  all  cut  finely,  and  3  or  4  large  slices  of  salt  pork.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  cook  until  the  meat  is  done,  keeping  it  just  covered  with  water.  This 
is  fine  in  a  cold  day  in  the  winter,  and  is  an  inexpensive  dinner  by  itself,  without 
other  meat. 

Meat  Broth. — Put  the  beef  or  mutton  on  in  cold  water  and  let  it  heat  slowly; 
a  scum  will  rise  when  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point;  remove  this  very  carefully, 
then  cover  the  pot,  and  keep  it  at  a  gentle  simmer;  from  time  to  time  lift  the 
cover  and  skim  till  no  more  scum  rises.  Take  out  the  meat  when  thoroughly 
cooked.  Set  the  meat  in  the  oven  with  the  door  of  the  oven  open  a  little 
way  to  keep  it  warm.  Have  some  thin  slices  of  toasted  bread  well  buttered,  or 
some  browned  crackers  in  the  tureen,  and  after  pouring  the  broth  through  the 
cloth  strainer,  pour  over  the  tureen  and  serve.  Instead  of  the  toast,  a  little 
chopped  cabbage,  boiled  in  a  separate  stew-pan,  can  be  added,  or  any  other 
vegetable  liked. 


SOUPS.  63 

MUIXAGATAWNY  SOUP. 

1  fowl  or  rabbit,  or  2  lbs.  of  lean  beef  or  veal.       2  large  onions.  Peel  of  1  lemon. 

1  bunch  of  herbs.  A  bit  of  garlic  (or  2  or  3  cloves). 

2  tablespoons  of  curry  powder.  2  quarts  of  cold  water. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  and  cover  with  the  water;  slice  the  onions, 

fry  them  brown  in  beef  drippings,  and  put  the  onions,  lemon  peel,  herbs,  and 

cloves  or  garlic,  with  the  meat,  and  simmer  slowly  for  5  hours,  skimming  well; 

then  strain  through  the  fine  colander.    Return  to  the  kettle,  add  salt  to  taste  and 

ground  white  pepper,  and  a  teacup  of  rice.    When  the  rice  begins  to  break  in 

pieces,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  2  tablespoons  of  curry  powder. 

Mullagatawny  means  "pepper  pot,"  and  it  is  an  Indian  soup.  It  always  requires  to  be 
well  seasoned,  and  rice  should  be  served  with  it. 

Mutton  Broth. — Take  2  lbs.  of  what  is  known  as  the  scrag-end  of  the  neck  of 
mutton;  remove  as  much  as  possible  every  particle  of  fat.  Put  it  in  a  quart  of 
cold  water,  with  a  slice  of  onion  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt.  Let  it  simmer  very 
gently  for  3  or  4  hours;  skim  occasionally.  Strain  off  the  broth  and  allow  it  to 
cool.  Take  off  all  fat,  and  warm  up  when  required.  When  not  required  for  in- 
valids, some  chopped  parsley  may  be  added  to  the  broth,  as  well  as  other  vege- 
tables, such  as  turnips,  carrots,  or  leeks. 

Oxtail  Soup. — {Rich  beef  soup). — Two  shin-bones  of  beef  well  broken,  and  2 
beef -tails  cut  in  short  pieces.  Put  in  the  soup-kettle  with  3  quarts  of  water. 
Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  carefully  skim;  then  slowly  simmer  until  the  meat  will 
separate  from  the  bones.  Take  out  the  meat  and  bones  with  a  skimmer  into  a 
pan,  and  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  putting  back  the  bones  to  simmer  until  an 
hour  before  dinner;  then  take  out  the  bones  again  and  add  a  carrot,  a  small  tur- 
nip, a  small  onion,  all  cut  finely,  with  herbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  if  pre- 
ferred, a  tablespoon  of  any  of  the  ready-made  meat  sauces  liked  by  the  family. 
Fry  the  bits  of  meat  a  nice  brown,  in  a  little  butter,  and  place  in  the  bottom  of 
the  tureen;  pour  the  soup  and  vegetables  over  the  meat  and  send  it  to  the  table. 
Serve  with  rolls,  bread,  or  toasted  crackers.  The  ingredients  of  this  soup  may  be 
all  simmered  together  for  4  or  5  hours,  then  strained  through  the  cloth  strainer. 
A  tablespoon  of  corn-starch  in  a  little  water  may  be  added  for  thickening,  and  a 
tablespoon  of  caramel-sugar  used  for  coloring.    Sufficient  for  8. 

Rabbit  Soup. — Cut  a  young  rabbit  in  small  pieces  and  soak  in  water  for  an 
hour;  then  put  in  the  soup-pot,  and  cook  until  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones. 
Take  all  the  best  meat,  and  return  the  remainder  to  the  kettle,  with  a  carrot, 
turnip,  onion,  and  2  or  3  sticks  of  celery,  all  cut  finely,  with  seasoning  to  taste,  and 
simmer  for  2  hours  longer;  then  strain  the  soup  and  return  to  the  kettle;  add  a 
piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  an  English  walnut,  cut  in  pieces  and  rolled  in 
flour,  to  thicken  it.  There  should  be  3  quarts  of  broth  when  done.  Cut  the 
meat  in  small  pieces,  put  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  over  the  hot  rabbit  soup. 

Turkey  Soup. — After  a  turkey  has  been  served  for  dinner  and  the  meat  has 
been  taken  from  the  carcass,  break  all  the  bones  finely  and  put  in  the  soup-ket- 
tle, with  any  remaining  dressing  or  gravy,  and  add  3  quarts  of  water  if  the  turkey 
was  large — less  for  a  small  one.  Let  boil  slowly  for  2  or  3  hours;  then  pour 
through  a  coarse  colander,  and  serve  with  toasted  crackers. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. — Scald  a  calf's  head,  and  wash  it  clean.  Boil  in  a  large 
pot  of  water  for  half  an  hour,  then  cut  all  the  skin  off  by  itself;  take  the  tongue 
out,  take  the  broth  made  of  a  knuckle  of  veal,  put  in  the  tongue  and  skin,  with 
an  onion,  %  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  mace?  %  a  nutmeg,  all  kinds  of  sweet  herbs 


64  SOUPS. 

chopped  fine,  3  anchovies;  stew  it  till  tender;  then  take  out  the  meat,  and  cut  it 
in  pieces  2  inches  square;  cut  the  tongue,  previously  skinned,  in  slices;  strain  the 
liquor  through  a  sieve.  Melt  %  lb-  butter  in  a  stew-pan;  put  in  J^  lb.  flour;  stir 
it  till  smooth;  if  at  all  lumpy,  strain  it;  add  the  liquor,  stirring  it  all  the  time;  then 
put  to  the  meat  the  juice  of  2  lemons.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper,  pretty  high;  put  in  5  meat  balls,  8  eggs,  boiled  hard.  Stew  it  1  hour, 
gently. 

Teal  Soup. — Into  4-  quarts  of  water  put  a  3  lb.  joint  of  veal,  well  broken,  and 
set  on  the  stove  to  boil.  In  a  separate  dish  put  %  lb.  of  macaroni,  with  just  wa- 
ter enough  to  cover  it,  and  boil  till  tender;  then  add  a  little  butter.  Finally  the 
soup  should  be  strained,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  afterwards  add  the 
macaroni  and  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Many  will  find  it  an  improve- 
ment to  add  1  pint  of  cream,  or  rich  milk,  and  celery  flavor. 


FISH    AND    SHELL-FISH    SOUPS. 

Bouillabaisse. — Any  kind  of  fish  may  be  used  for  this  dish.  Chop  2  onions, 
and  put  them  with  a  piece  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan  and  let  them  brown  without 
burning.  Then  arrange  the  fish  which  has  been  previously  cut  into  small  pieces,, 
in  the  pan.  Add  a  small  quantity  of  the  best  olive  oil,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  bay- 
leaf,  two  slices  of  lemon,  2  tomatoes,  and  as  much  powdered  saffron  as  will  go  on 
the  point  of  a  table-knife,  and  lastly  the  juice  of  the  remainder  of  the  lemon. 
Put  in  sufficient  stock  to  cover  the  whole,  and  boil  from  10  to  20  minutes,  skim- 
ming carefully  the  whole  time.  When  ready  to  serve,  throw  in  a  handful  of 
chopped  parsley. 

Bisque  of  Lobster. — Wash  thoroughly  with,  a  brush,  a  small  lobster,  then 
remove  all  the  solid  meat  and  put  it  on  ice.  Break  finely  the  shell  and  claws  of 
the  lobster,  and  put  it  in  the  soup-kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover  it.  Cut 
finely,  and  add  a  small  carrot,  1  head  of  celery,  and  a  very  small  onion  or  bit  of 
garlic,  with  herbs,  salt  and  white  pepper,  to  taste.  Boil  1  hour  and  then  strain; 
put  back  in  the  kettle  and  add  3  pints  of  stock.  Set  it  on  the  range  where  it 
will  keep  hot  but  not  boil,  as  boiling  causes  it  to  curdle.  Just  before  serving, 
cut  the  meat  of  the  lobster  in  small  pieces  and  fry  brown  in  a  little  butter,  and 
place  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen.  Add  to  the  bisque  the  juice  oi  %&  lemon, 
and  a  dust  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  meat  in  the  tureen.  Serve  with 
a  French  roll  at  each  plate,  or  with  browned  crackers. 

Clam  Soup. — Put  25  clams  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes.  Then  open 
them  and  save  the  liquor  that  comes  from  them;  add  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of 
water,  1  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley,  1  chopped  onion,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
cut  in  bits  and  rolled  in  flour;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  2  well  beaten  eggs  and 
the  chopped  clams,  adding  lastly  1  pint  of  milk.  Boil  10  minutes.  A  very  nice 
soup.  (It  is  better  to  add  the  eggs  to  this  soup  the  last  thing  before  taking  up,  as 
the  egg  is  apt  to  curdle,  if  boiled.) 

Newport  Clam  Chowder. — Wash  the  clams  thoroughly  with  boiling  water, 
and  let  them  stand  10  minutes,  when  they  can  easily  be  removed  from  the  shell. 
Cut  off  the  black  heads  and  put  the  bodies  in  a  clean  dish.  For  a  peck  of  clams 
use  8  large  potatoes,  peeled  and  sliced  thin,  and  %  an  onion  cut  in  small  pieces* 
Cut  %  pound  of  salt  pork  into  small  pieces  and  fry  brown.  Put  the  onion  and 
potatoes  into  the  kettle  with  the  pork,  with  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper 


SOUPS.  65 

and  %  a  cup  of  flour  shaken  in;  strain  on  this  4  quarts  of  the  water  in  which  the 
clams  were  scalded,  and  let  all  boil  15  minutes;  then  add  the  clams,  6  crackers 
split,  %  a  cup  of  tomato  sauce;  cook  10  minutes  longer,  and  serve. 

Salt  Codfish  Soup. — Take  a  piece  of  codfish  the  size  of  the  hand,  scald,  skin, 
and  pick  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  a  kettle  with  a  quart  of  water;  soak,  and 
change  the  water  until  it  is  fresh  enough;  then  add  1  pint  of  cream  and  1  pint  of 
water  and  let  it  come  to  boiling.    Serve  it  with  buttered,  toasted  crackers. 

Fish  Soup. — Take  any  kind  of  fresh  fish  liked  best — about  2  pounds  for  3 
quarts  of  water.  Cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  in  the  soup-pot — skin,  bones  and 
all — with  a  large  onion,  sliced,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  a  sliced  lemon,  with  a  little  salt 
and  white  pepper.  Cook  to  rags;  then  strain  through  the  cloth  strainer,  and  re- 
turn to  the  kettle.  Add  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  corn-starch  wet  in  half  a  teacup 
of  water;  let  it  come  to  boiling,  and  serve  with  quenelles,  if  desired. 

Fish  Soup  Maigre. — Take  a  fish  that  weighs  about  2  pounds;  cut  enough  slices 
for  the  frying-pan,  and  put  the  remainder,  with  the  bones,  in  the  soup-kettle, 
with  an  onion  if  liked,  a  sliced  lemon,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  salt,  and  white  pepper. 
Simmer  together  for  an  hour;  strain  and  return  to  the  kettle,  and  add  J£  pint 
of  cream,  and  enough  hot  water  to  make  3  pints  of  soup.  Fry  the  fish  cutlets  in 
butter,  and  add  to  the  soup,  or  serve  on  a  platter  instead  of  meat  on  a  fast-day. 
If  the  fish  is  not  added  to  the  soup,  serve  it  with  noodles. 

Oyster  Soup. — Put  a  pint  of  small  oysters  with  their  liquor  in  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water  and  let  them  become  plump;  then  take  them  out  with  a  skim- 
mer, rinse  thoroughly  in  warm  water,  and  be  sure  there  are  no  bits  of 
shell  adhering  to  them.  Strain  the  soup-water  through  the  cloth  strainer 
and  return  to  the  kettle.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  add  a  little  white  pepper 
and  a  very  little  cayenne,  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  cut 
in  bits  and  rolled  in  flour.  Boil  a  minute  after  this,  then  pour  over  the  oys- 
ters in  the  tureen  and  serve  with  small  crackers,  or  large  crackers  split,  and 
browned  in  the  oven.  A  richer  soup  is  made  by  leaving  out  one  pint  of  water  and 
substituting  a  pint  of  cream. 

Provencal  Soup  (Bouillabaisse). — Slice  and  shred  2  large  onions  and  fry  in  2 
tablespoons  of  salad-oil  until  the  onions  are  quite  yellow;  then  add  a  desert-spoon 
of  Spanish  sweet  red  pepper,  a  little  salt  and  a  quart  of  good  stock,  or  water;  boil 
together  for  3  minutes;  then  add  small  slices  of  any  kind  of  fish  most  agreeable  or 
convenient;  boil  these  for  a  few  minutes  and  serve  the  bouillabaisse  with  the 
crusts  of  a  round  French  roll  fried  in  a  little  oil  and  butter.  The  slices  of  fish 
may  be  removed  to  a  platter,  covered  with  one  of  the  fish  sauces,  and  served  as  a 
course  separate  from  the  soup. 
5 


FISH. 

Fish  has  been  an  important  article  of  food  in  all  ages  and  in  all  countries. 
Although  less  nourishing  and  stimulating  than  meat,  it  has  much  nutritive  value. 
Its  abundance  and  cheapness  commend  it,  and  it  should  be  used  freely  in  the 
season  when  it  is  best  and  cheapest.  The  flesh  of  fish  when  in  season,  i.  e.,  before 
spawning,  is  solid  and  boils  firm  and  curdy.  It  should  be  used  as  fresh  as  pos- 
sible, as  it  soon  spoils.  White  fleshed  fish  are  the  most  easily  digested,  and  the 
oily  varieties,  like  mackerel,  salmon  and  eels,  are  the  most  difficult  of  digestion. 
White  fleshed  fish  is  the  most  delicate,  and  the  red  fleshed  and  oily  kinds  the 
most  nourishing.  Fish  is  highly  nitrogenous,  and  requires  an  abundant  use  of 
starchy  food  in  combination  with  it,  to  supply  a  sufficient  amount  of  heat-giving 
material;  and,  owing  to  the  lack  of  oil  in  the  white  fleshed  varieties,  they  are  best 
cooked  in  fat.  Lemon  juice  or  vinegar  (being  acid)  are  excellent  as  an  accom- 
paniment, or  in  the  sauces,  for  fish  and  shell-fish,  because  of  the  alkaline  nature 
of  their  juices.  It  is  essential  to  the  wholesomeness  of  fish  that  they  should  be 
thoroughly  cleaned  and  cooked. 

The  popular  idea  that  fish  aid  brain  and  nervous  development  because  of  the  phospho- 
rus they  contain  is  wholly  erroneous.  There  is  no  relation  between  the  amount  of  phos- 
phorus passing  through  the  system  and  the  intensity  of  thought.  It  is  not  because  of  the 
phosphorus  they  contain  that  fish,  oysters  and  eggs,  are  suitable  for  students,  but  because 
they  are  easily  digested,  and  those  leading  sedentary  lives  do  not  need  the  hearty  food 
suited  to  a  day-laborer,  besides  which  they  are  adapted  to  those  on  whose  nervous  energies 
there  are  large  drains  because  of  the  large  amount  of  nitrogenous  material  which  they  con- 
tain.   It  should  also  be  said  that  fish  contains  no  larger  per  cent,  of  phosphorus  than  meat. 

The  following  table  will  show  the  chemical  composition  of  some  of  the  com- 
mon varieties  of  fish  and  shell-fish.  The  large  percentage  of  albumenoids  found 
in  black  bass,  salt  codfish,  smoked  haddock,  canned  sardines,  etc.,  will  be  noticed, 
and  the  large  percentage  of  fats  in  eels,  salt  mackerel,  smoked  halibut  and  sal- 
mon. Note  also  the  difference  in  the  potential  energy  in  pickerel  and  salt  mack- 
erel.   The  lack  of  carbohydrates  (i.  e.,  starch,  sugar,  etc.)  which  is  common  to  all 

TABLE  SHOWING  THE  PERCENTAGE  OF  POOD  ELEMENTS  IN  VARIOUS  FISH. 


fater. 

Albumen- 
oids. 
%.. 

Fats. 

%. 

Mineral 
Matters. 

%. 

Potential 
energy   in 

IB. 
Calories. 

76.7 

20.4 

1.7 

1.2 

450 

78.5 

19.0 

1.2 

1.3 

405 

82.6 

15.8 

0.4 

1.3 

310 

53.6 

21.4 

0.4 

1.6 

410 

71.6 

19.3 

9.1 

1.0 

725 

84.2 

13.9 

0.6 

1.3 

285 

81.7 

16.8 

0.3 

1.2 

325 

72.5 

23.7 

0.2 

1.5 

450 

76.4 

18.3 

5.2 

1.1 

560 

49.4 

20.6 

15.1 

2.0 

1020 

69.0 

18.5 

11.0 

1.6 

810 

73.4 

18.2 

7.1 

1.3 

640 

42.2 

22.1 

22.6 

2.5 

1365 

79,7 

18.6 

0.5 

1.2 

365 

63.6 

21.6 

13.4 

1.4 

965 

61.9 

20.1 

15.7 

1.3 

1035 

56.4 

25.3 

12.7 

5.6 

1005 

77.7 

19.0 

2.1 

1.2 

440 

69.8 

22.1 

6.5 

1.6 

685 

85.8 

8.6 

1.0 

2.6 

240 

81.8 

14.6 

1.9 

1.7 

350 

77.7 

18.7 

1.1 

2.6 

395 

87.1 

6.1 

1.2 

2.0 

230 

70.8 

25.6 

1.0 

2.6 

620 

74.5 

21.0 

3.5 

1.0 

640 

Bass,  black 

Blue  fish 

Codfish,  fresh 

Codfish,  salted  (Salt  23%) 

Eel,  salt  water 

Flounder 

Haddock , 

Haddock,  smoked 

Halibut,  fresh 

Halibut,  smoked 

Herring,  fresh 

Mackerel,  fresh 

Mackerel,  salted  (salt  10.6%). 

Pickerel 

Salmon,  fresh 

Salmon,  canned 

Sardines,  canned 

Trout,  brook 

Whitefish 

Clams  (Carbohydrates  2.0$), 

Lobsters 

Lobsters,  canned 

Oysters  (Carbohydrates  3.6%) 

Shrimps 

Terrapin 


(66) 


FISH.  6? 

fish,  makes  apparent  the  wisdom  of  accompanying  them  with  starchy  foods,  like 
potatoes,  etc.,  to  supply  the  system  with  the  food  elements  which  they  lack.  For 
an  explanation  of  the  terms  "  albumenoids,"  "  carbohydrates,"  "  potential  energy  " 
and  "  Calories,"  see  our  article  elsewhere  on  the  composition  of  foods. 

Cleaning  Fish. — Fish  should  be  cleaned  as  soon  as  possible  after  being  caught. 
Make  an  incision  in  the  under  side  from  the  gills  half  way  down,  and  take  out 
the  insides;  carefully  remove  the  thin  black  membrane  lining  the  cavity,  as  it  is 
apt  to  impart  a  bitter  flavor  to  the  whole  fish  if  it  is  left.  It  is  best  to  remove  the 
white  part  adhering  to  the  bone,  called  the  sound,  although  some  people  leave  it. 
Do  not  cut  off  the  tail  and  head  if  it  is  to  be  served  whole.  Scrape  from  the  tail 
towards  the  head  to  remove  the  scales;  take  out  the  eyes,  and  wash  in  strongly 
salted  water;  dry  carefully,  and  wrap  a  cloth  sprinkled  with  salt  around  it,  and 
keep  near  the  ice.  The  salt  checks  the  outflow  of  the  juices.  Handle  the  fish  as 
little  as  possible,  and  do  not  wash  it  too  much  (one  water  is  usually  enough)  and 
do  not  let  the  fish  soak  in  the  water,  as  that  will  extract  the  juices  and  detract 
from  its  value.  Keep  fish  in  a  cool  place  near  the  ice,  but  do  not  let  ice  touch  it, 
as  that  will  soften  and  injure,  if  it  does  not  spoil  it.  Do  not  keep  fish  in  the  ice 
chest,  as  it  will  taint  anything  like  milk  or  butter.  Keep  any  fish  left  after  the 
meal  in  the  same  way. 

To  Skin  a  Fish. — Cut  a  narrow  strip  along  the  backbone,  using  a  sharp  knife, 
and  removing  the  fin  on  the  back;  then  run  up  the  knife  through  and  under  the 
bony  part  of  the  gills  and  peel  the  skin  off  backwards  toward  the  tail,  holding  the 
bony  part  of  the  gills  with  the  thumb  and  finger;  then  peel  off  the  skin  from  the 
other  side  in  the  same  manner,  and  throw  it  away. 

To  Bone  a  Fish. — Fish,  like  herring  and  shad,  abounding  in  fine  bones,  are 
not  boned,  but  whitefish,  mackerel,  cod,  etc.,  can  be  boned  as  follows:  Clean, 
skin  and  spread  it  out  flat  on  a  board;  then  begin  at  the  tail,  and  run  a  sharp, 
thin  knife  under  the  flesh,  close  to  the  bone,  and  loosen  the  backbone  with  the 
forefinger.  Take  pains  not  to  break  the  flakes,  and  when  the  flesh  on  one  side  is 
loosened,  slip  the  knife  under  the  bone  on  the  other;  when  all  the  bone  is  loos- 
ened, pull  it  from  the  flesh.  Any  small  bones  remaining  in  the  flesh  can  be 
felt  and  removed  with  the  fingers. 

Fillets  of  Fish. — These  are  the  flesh  of  fish  cut  into  small  pieces,  egged,  bread- 
crumbed,  and  fried.    The  fish  for  fillets  should  be  skinned  and  boned. 

Hints. — The  earthy  taste  in  fresh  water  fish  can  be  removed  by  sprinkling  on 
salt  and  leaving  it  on  a  few  hours,  or  over  night,  before  cooking. 

If  fish  are  dipped  in  hot  water  for  a  minute,  they  will  scale  much  easier.  To 
remove  scales,  there  is  no  instrument  equal  to  a  currycomb — it  is  everyway 
superior  to  a  knife.  The  scales  and  entrails  should  be  removed,  and  also  the 
blood  and  white  skin  along  the  backbone,  as  soon  after  the  fish  is  caught  as 
possible;  then  rinse,  wipe  dry,  and  keep  near  ice.  Keep  the  eggs,  or  fish  roe,  and 
cook  it  with  the  fish. 

All  fish  loose  nourishing  power  by  being  salted.  The  quickest  and  best  way 
to  freshen  salt  fish  is  to  soak  it  in  sour  milk. 

Salted  fish  and  canned  fish,  oysters,  lobsters,  etc.,  can  be  kept  in  the  store- 
room against  an  emergency,  but  great  care  must  be  taken  in  the  case  of  canned 
meats,  fish,  lobsters,  and  vegetables,  that  the  brands  selected  are  put  up  in  pure 
tin  cans;  a  mixture  of  lead  with  the  tin  is  sometimes  used,  the  oxide  of  which  is 
poisonous.  All  the  contents  of  a  tin  can  when  opened  should  be  immediately 
removed  into  an  earthen  or  glass  dish,  as  oxydization  proceeds  rapidly  after  the 
can  is  opened,  and  the  inside,  with  its  contents,  exposed  to  the  action  of  the  air. 

The  knives  and  spoons  used  about  fish  should  not  be  used  for  other  food  till 
well  cleaned,  as  they  will  impart  a  fishy  flavor  to  it.  Rub  steel  knives  or  forks 
with  fresh  lemon  or  orange  peel  to  take  off  the  fishy  taste. 

Broiling  a  fish  best  retains  its  nourishing  qualities;  baking  is  next,  while 
boiling  retains  the  least — in  fact,  boiling  is  the  least  desirable  way  of  cooking 
them.  Small  fish  are  usually  fried;  those  of  medium  size  broiled  and  baked,  and 
the  largest  can  be  boiled. 

To  thaw  out  frozen  fish,  put  it  in  cold  water,  and  leave  it  until  it  is  flexible  and 
the  frost  is  all  drawn  out;  then  dress  and  cook  at  once. 

Fish,  if  kept  near  ice  and  very  cold,  retains  much  of  its  freshness,  but  if  once 
heated,  its  delicate  flavor  cannot  be  restored.    Fish  that  is  not  quite  fresh  can  be 


FISH. 


improved  by  washing  in  vinegar  and  water,  or  permanganate  of  potash  and  water. 
It  is  afterwards  better  fried  than  boiled,  but  no  dressing  will  entirely  conceal  its 
quality.    Fish  purchased  in  the  market  should  be  used  the  same  day  if  possible. 

The  garnishing  of  fish  is  an  art,  if  nicely  done.  Celery  tops,  horseradish, 
common  radishes,  water-cresses,  parsley,  nasturtium  flowers,  sliced  lemons  and 
red  pickled  beets,  cut  in  fanciful  shapes,  are  among  the  most  effective  and  popu- 
lar things  to  use. 

Frying,  Boiling,  etc. — As  the  directions  for  frying,  boiling,  stewing,  broiling 
and  baking  fish  apply  to  nearly  all  kinds,  we  will  give  these  methods  quite  fully, 
instead  of  describing  the  same  method  over  and  over  again  for  each  different 
kind  of  fish.  Any  one  who  masters  the  process,  can  easily  cook  any  fish  adapted 
to  that  way  of  cooking. 

To  Boil  Fish.— When  boiling  fish,  to  have  the  water  bubble  is  worse  than 
useless,  as  it  cracks  the  skin.  If  fish  is  put  into  cold  water  at  first,  it,  like  meat, 
gets  dry  (see  our  article  on  the  principles  involved  in  cooking  meat).  A  compro- 
mise is  therefore  made,  and  salt  is  added  to  the  water  (use  about  1  oz.  of  salt  to 
each  quart  of  water);  it  is  well  also  to  add  about  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice  to  each  2  quarts  of  water.  Vinegar  or  lemon  juice  are  valuable  because 
albumen  coagulates  sooner  when  in  contact  with  an  acid,  and  they  thus  help  to 
coagulate  the  surface  albumen,  and  so  retain  the  juices  inside.  Salt  added  to 
the  water  in  which  fish  is  cooked  acts  in  3  ways,  as  explained  in  the  article  on 

cooking  meats.  The  old 
plan  has  been  to  put  fish 
into  cold  water  at  first, 
but  it  is  much  better  to 
put  it  into  water  as  hot 
as  the  skin  will  bear  with- 
out breaking,  and  this 
varies  with  each  kind  of 
fish.  To  break  the  skin 
is  very  undesirable,  be- 
cause it  not  only  makes 
an  unsightly  appearance, 
but  each  crack  makes  an 
opening  through  which  the  interior  juices  will  escape.  If  a  fish  kettle  is  used, 
and  a  fish  plate  that  can  be  taken  up,  there  is  no  need  of  a  cloth  around  the  fish, 
but  if  it  has  to  be  boiled  in  a  common  kettle,  it  should  be  rolled  in  a  piece  of 
cloth  (butter  cloth  is  best)  to  keep  it  in  shape,  and  it  is  likely  to  be  broken  when 
taken  from  the  water,  if  the  cloth  is  not  used.  Allow  the  fish  to  simmer,  or  boil 
slowly  and  gently,  or  the  outside  will  break  into  pieces  before  the  inside  is  done. 
If  water  is  to  be  added,  do  not  pour  it  directly  on  the  fish,  as  that  is  apt  to  break 
the  skin;  pour  it  gently  in  on  one  side  of  the  kettle.  Too  long  boiling  makes  fish 
"woolly"  and  tasteless.  The  time  of  cooking  depends  entirely  on  the  freshness 
and  thickness  of  the  fish,  and  varies  so  much  that  no  rule  can  be  given;  experi- 
ence is  the  only  guide.  There  are  3  reliable  tests  by  which  it  can  be  ascertained 
if  fish  has  been  sufficiently  cooked:  First,  if  the  fins  will  pull  out  easily;  second,  if 
the  skin  of  the  fish  is  cracked;  or,  third,  if  a  skewer  passes  easily  when  run  into 
the  fish  close  to  the  bone.  Fish  should  always  be  put  into  the  water  in  which 
it  is  to  be  cooked;  if  the  water  is  poured  upon  it,  it  is  apt  to  become  broken.  It 
should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  water  after  it  is  done;  if  it  has  to  be  kept 
hot?  it  should  be  taken  up  on  a  drainer,  placed  across  the  fish-kettle  over  the 


A   PTSH   KETTLE. 


fish.  69 

tot  water,  and  covered  with  a  soft  cloth  or  flannel  folded  several  times,  to  prevent 
its  losing  its  color.  White  fish  cook  much  more  rapidly  than  meat.  Fish 
should  be  well  cooked  to  be  digestible,  but  should  not  be  overdone.  The  reason 
for  skimming  is,  that  the  scum  will  be  likely  to  settle  on  the  fish  if  that  is  not 
done,  and  give  it  an  unsightly  appearance.  Save  the  liquor  in  which  fish  has 
been  boiled,  as  it  makes  an  excellent  soup  with  a  few  cheap  additions. 

Boiling  is  the  least  desirable  way  of  cooking  fish,  but  salmon  is  not  injured  by 
boiling  because  it  is  so  oily.  All  boiled  fish  should  have  a  good  sauce  served 
with  it.  Hollandaise  and  sauce  piquante  go  well  with  salmon,  and  oyster,  lob- 
ster, shrimp,  drawn  butter,  egg,  pickle,  etc.,  with  other  fish.  Serve  the  sauce  in 
a  sauce-boat,  unless  the  fish  breaks  and  looks  badly,  in  which  case  the  bones  can 
be  taken  out,  the  fish  flaked,  piled  on  a  platter  lightly,  and  the  sauce  poured  over 
it.  Garnish  boiled  fish  with  slices  of  lemon  or  hard-boiled  eggs,  parsley,  button 
mushrooms,  fried  oysters,  sliced  pickles,  Saratoga  potatoes,  etc. 

Steamed  Fish. — An  excellent  way  to  cook  fish  is  to  thoroughly  clean,  remove 
the  head,  skin  and  tail,  rub  with  salt  and  lemon  juice,  and  cook  in  a  steamer  over 
boiling  water,  instead  of  boiling  it  in  the  water.  In  many  respects  it  is  better 
than  boiling.  When  done,  serve  on  a  platter  on  which  a  folded  napkin  is  laid, 
pile  Saratoga  potatoes  around  it,  and  garnish  with  parsley,  slices  of  lemon,  and 
hard  boiled  egg.    Serve  a  good  sauce  in  a  sauce-boat  with  it. 

To  Broil  Fish. — Large  fish  need  a  moderate  fire  so  as  not  to  burn  the  outside 
before  the  inside  is  done;  they  are  best  split,  in  order  to  cook  them  through  well, 
or  else  make  notches  at  equal  distances  on  the  sides  to  admit  the  heat.  Small 
fish  need  a  clear  hot  fire,  and  may  be  cooked  whole.  Salt  and  pepper  is  all  that 
need  be  applied  to  oily  fish  before  broiling  them,  but  olive  oil  or  butter  should  be 
first  spread  over  dry,  white  fish.  The  gridiron  should  always  be  well  greased.  As 
the  skin  burns  easily,  the  flesh  side  should  be  cooked  first  to  a  golden  brown; 
then  turn  and  broil  the  skin  side  until  it  is  crisp;  small  fish  will  cook  in  10  min- 
utes, and  larger  ones  need  15  to  20.  A  double  wire  gridiron  is  easily  turned,  but 
the  best  way  when  an  old-style  iron  or  a  single  gridiron  is  used,  is  to  take  a  knife 
and  separate  any  part  that  sticks;  then  with  one  hand  hold  a  platter  over  the 
fish,  and  with  the  other,  turn  over  the  gridiron;  the  fish  will  then  be  on  the  plat- 
ter and  can  easily  be  returned  to  the  gridiron  without  breaking.  When  done, 
sprinkle  on  salt  and  pepper,  and,  using  a  knife,  spread  a  little  butter  over  it,  and 
then  put  it  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  let  it  soak  in.  All  oily  fish,  like  mackerel, 
herring,  etc.,  are  better  broiled  than  fried. 

The  pieces  of  fish  are  sometimes  wrapped  in  a  piece  of  oiled  paper  before  being 
broiled,  when  very  delicate  broiling  is  desired.  The  paper  must  be  very  thor- 
oughly oiled  or  buttered,  but  no  oil  should  drop  on  the  fire,  and  a  very  clear  fire 
is  needed.     A  gridiron  that  has  cooked  fish  needs  most  thorough  cleaning. 

To  Fry  Fish.— By  frying  fish  we  mean  immersing  it  in  hot  fat.  The  fish 
should  be  well  cleaned,  dried  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt;  then  rub  it  with  flour,  dip  it  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  sprinkle  with  fine 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs;  sometimes  wheat  flour  or  Indian  corn  meal  are  used, 
but  fully  cover  the  fish  so  that  there  are  no  cracks.  Then  fry  it  in  smoking  hot 
fat  as  directed  elsewhere  under  "The  Processes  of  Cooking."  It  should  be  fried 
a  rich  golden  brown.  A  sheet  of  white  paper  can  be  placed  to  receive  it  after  it 
is  fried,  that  it  may  be  free  from  all  grease.  Some  cooks  lay  it  in  the  oven  for  a 
moment,  and  then  serve.  A  very  little  time  is  all  that  is  needed  to  cook  it  (from 
2  to  5  minutes)  if  the  fat  is  the  right  temperature;  a  general  mistake  is  to  over- 
cook it.    Do  not  fry  oily  fish,  like  mackerel,  salmon,  etc.    Halibut,  cod,  etc.,  can 


io  Pirn. 

be  skinned,  boned,  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  then  fried.  Fish  which  is  very 
cold  should  be  slightly  warmed  first,  or  it  will  chill  the  fat  and  become  greasy. 
Fish  thus  fried  is  nicer  than  by  the  common  method  of  frying  in  a  frying-pan; 
try  it  once,  if  you  never  have. 

Fish  is  also  sometimes  fried  in  batter.  The  fish  should  be  dried,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  dipped  in  the  batter,  and  quickly  put  into  the  hot  fat.  The 
batter  must  be  smooth  and  thick.  As  soon  as  the  batter  is  of  a  bright  golden 
color,  take  it  out,  and  if  the  fish  is  thick,  put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 
The  fat  is  more  than  100°  hotter  than  boiling  water,  and  the  inside  part  of  what- 
ever is  cooked  in  it  goes  on  cooking  after  it  is  taken  out  of  the  fat. 

For  sauteing  or  frying  in  the  frying-pan,  butter  is  not  desirable,  as  it 
scorches  too  easily  and  gives  a  bad  odor  to  any  fish  that  requires  long  cooking. 
Small  brook-trout,  however,  are  sometimes  cooked  in  butter  in  the  frying-pan. 
For  ordinary  sized  pan -fish,  or  slices  of  large  fish,  the  fat  from  a  few  thin  slices 
of  salt  pork  is  excellent;  the  thin  scraps  of  fried  pork  are  used  with  other  gar- 
nishing, around  the  fish  on  the  platter. 

Fried  fish  can  be  garnished  with  parsley,  lemon,  pickle,  etc.,  and  served  with 
any  acid  sauce,  like  tomato  or  tartare.  Small  fish  should  be  arranged  with  heads 
and  tails  alternating.    Arrange  fillets  in  a  circle,  one  overlapping  the  other. 

Baked  Fish. — Clean,  dry,  and  stuff  the  fish  with  one  of  the  stuffings  given 
below,  and  sew  it.  Long,  narrow  fish  bake  best  if  a  trussing  needle  is  run 
through  the  side  of  the  head,  then  the  middle  of  the  body,  and  then  the  tail,  in 
such  a  way  as  to  form  the  fish  into  the  shape  of  a  letter  S;  it  will  then  rest  on  its  belly 
while  baking,  instead  of  on  its  side.  Shad  or  other  short,  broad  fish,  may  be 
propped  up  on  their  bellies  with  peeled  potatoes,  or  pieces  of  old  bread.  In  order 
to  lift  the  fish  out  easily  when  done,  it  is  best  to  put  the  fish  on  an  iron  or  tin 
baking  sheet,  with  handles  at  the  ends,  and  set  that  in  the  baking  pan;  if  you 
have  no  such  baking  sheet,  2  broad  strips  of  cotton  cloth  can  be  used  to  lift  the 
fish  out  with,  laying  the  cloth  across  the  pan  before  putting  in  the  fish.  Grease 
the  baking  sheet  well  with  salt  pork  fat,  to  keep  the  fish  from  sticking,  and  put 
some  pieces  of  pork  under  the  fish  also.  Sprinkle  it  over  with  salt  and  pepper, 
rub  on  soft  butter,  and  put  narrow  strips  of  pork  in  gashes  cut  across  the  back  of 
the  fish  about  2  inches  apart.  Dredge  it  well  with  flour,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  nicely  browned,  basting  it  often  to  prevent  the  skin  from  cracking.  Some 
cooks  put  a  little  water  in  the  baking  pan,  but  it  is  better  not  to  do  so,  but  use 
the  pork  fat  to  baste  with.  When  done,  lift  it  carefully  and  put  it  on  a  hot 
platter,  take  out  the  trussing  needle  or  threads,  and  remove  the  salt  pork. 
Garnish  with  parsley,  water-cresses  or  Saratoga  potatoes,  and  serve  a  drawn 
butter  or  Hollandaise  sauce  with  it.  The  best  fish  for  baking  whole  are  fresh 
shad,  bass,  cod,  blue-fish,  haddock  and  small  salmon. 

Stuffing  for  Baked  Fish. — Take  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1 
saltspoon  of  pepper,  2  teaspoons  of  chopped  parsley,  4  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
If  it  is  wanted  more  moist,  wet  the  cracker  crumbs  with  %  cup  of  warm  water,  or 
with  1  beaten  egg.    This  makes  a  stuffing  for  a  fish  weighing  4  to  6  lbs. 

Stuffing,  No.  2. — Take  bread  crumbs,  1  well  beaten  egg,  1  tablespoon  chopped 
suet,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  2  tablespoons  minced  onion,  a  little  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.    Stuff  the  fish,  sew  or  tie  up,  and  bake. 

Oyster  Stuffing. — Prepare  J<£  pint  of  buttered  cracker  crumbs;  then  take  2 
cups  oysters,  roll  each  one  in  the  cracker  crumbs  (draining  them  first)  and  fill  the 


FISH.  71 

fish  with  thein;  sprinkle  the  oysters  with  the  balance  of  the  crumbs,  sew  up  the 
fish,  and  bake. 

Oyster  Stuffing,  No  2. — Season  a  pint  of  oysters  with  salt,  red  pepper  and 
lemon  juice;  fill  the  fish  with  the  oysters,  sew  up,  and  bake  as  before  directed. 

To  Stew  Fish. — Cut  the  fish  in  small  pieces  and  sprinkle  on  salt;  then  in  % 
pint  of  water  boil  2  onions  (sliced)  and  when  cooked,  pour  off  the  water;  then  add 
1  cup  of  water,  the  juice  of  %  a  lemon,  salt  to  taste,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  a 
sprig  of  parsley.  Cook  the  fish  in  this  till  done  (about  20  minutes)  and  serve  very 
hot.  Rub  to  a  cream  1  teaspoon  of  butter  and  1  large  teaspoon  of  flour,  and 
thicken  the  gravy  with  it.    Any  fresh  water  fish  can  be  thus  stewed. 

Spiced  Fish. — Remove  all  skin  and  bones,  put  it  in  a  deep  dish,  and  enough 
hot,  spiced  vinegar  (prepared  by  boiling  cloves  and  allspice  in  the  vinegar  10 
minutes)  to  barely  cover;  as  soon  as  cold,  it  can  be  used.  Remains  of  any  cold, 
fresh  fish  can  be  used  thus. 

Fish  au  (Jratiii. — Cut  an  onion  in  small  pieces,  and  fry  it  in  3  tablespoons  of 
butter;  skin  and  bone  2  lbs.  fish,  cut  it  in  pieces,  roll  and  dip  it  in  flour,  and  fry  it 
in  the  onion  and  butter,  in  a  frying  pan;  let  only  1  side  brown.  Now  pour  over 
the  onions  and  butter,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  beef 
gravy  or  Liebig's  extract,  4  tablespoons  of  tomatoes  just  out  of  the  can,  and  the 
liquor  from  1  pint  of  oysters.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  and  here  and 
there  put  bits  of  butter.  Set  the  platter  in  the  oven  over  a  pan  of  hot  water,  to 
prevent  the  dish  from  breaking,  and  bake  till  the  crumbs  are  brown.  Season  1 
pint  of  raw  oysters  with  red  pepper,  salt  and  lemon  juice;  put  them  in  a  saucepan, 
and  let  them  cook  until  they  puff  up.  Shake  the  pan  to  keep  them  from  burning, 
and  when  done,  pour  them  around  the  fish.  Shrimp  or  mushrooms  may  be  used 
instead  of  oysters. 

Fish  Balls. — Take  1  cup  salt  fish  which  has  been  picked  in  pieces  and  freed 
from  bones,  2  cups  potatoes  peeled  and  quartered,  and  1%  quarts  boiling  water; 
put  all  together  in  a  pan,  and  boil  until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  but  not  till  they  are 
soggy.  Then  drain  off  the  water,  mash  and  beat  till  soft  and  smooth,  and  add  a 
little  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  and,  when  slightly  cooled,  1  well-beaten  egg, 
with  more  salt,  if  there  is  not  enough.  Shape  into  balls  with  a  tablespoon,  and 
fry  about  1  minute  in  smoking  hot  fat;  on  taking  out,  lay  them  on  softpaper  to 
drain.  Excellent.  The  mixture  can  also  be  fried  in  a  frying-pan,  with  salt  pork 
fat,  till  brown,  if  desired,  and  turned  out  like  an  omelet. 

Fish  Chowder. — Take  3  Bbs.  cod  or  haddock  cut  in  pieces,  1  small  onion,  2  pints 
sliced  potatoes,  %  lb.  fresh  Boston  crackers  (if  stale  these  will  spoil  the  chowder), 
%  lb.  salt  pork  cut  in  thin  slices,  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1  of  butter, 
1  cups  milk.  Fry  the  pork  brown  (but  do  not  burn  it)  in  a  deep  kettle;  on  the 
pork  put  a  layer  of  the  fish,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes  well  dredged  with  flour,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  little  of  the  onion;  repeat  till  the  ingredients  are  all  used;  then 
pour  over  hot  water  not  quite  to  cover.  Heat  the  milk  in  another  saucepan  and  when 
the  potatoes  are  tender,  add  to  the  chowder  with  the  butter;  have  the  crackers  split, 
soaked  a  few  minutes  in  warm  milk  or  water,  and  add  them  also;  boil  up  once  and  the 
dish  will  be  done;  the  broth  should  be  about  as  thick  as  thin  cream  soup.  A  good 
way  to  serve  it  is  to  put  the  fish  and  potato  on  a  large  platter,  with  the  crackers 
in  a  circle  around,  and  then  strain  the  broth  and  put  it  in  a  soup  tureen.  This 
will  make  an  entire  dinner  of  itself  (soup,  fish  and  vegetables),  adding,  to  finish, 
a  simple dessertor  a  little  fruit. 


n  FISH. 

Creamed  Fish. — Boil  3  ft>s.  of  cod  or  haddock  in  salted  water,  with  }/i  table- 
spoon of  vinegar;  when  cool,  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  and  separate  the  fish 
with  a  silver  fork;  season  well  with  salt  and  white  pepper.  Make  a  cream  sauce 
by  putting  into  a  saucepan  2  tablespoons  each  of  flour  and  butter,  the  juice  of  J£ 
lemon,  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  mix  well,  and  gradually  add  2  cups  hot  milk.  Put 
a  layer  of  the  fish  on  the  platter  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  sprinkle  on  finely 
chopped  parsley,  and  cover  with  the  cream  sauce;  then  repeat  the  process.  Mois- 
ten in  melted  butter,  bread  crumbs  which  have  not  been  sifted,  spread  them  over 
the  top,  and  set  the  platter  in  the  oven  over  a  pan  of  hot  water,  to  prevent  it  from 
breaking,  and  bake  till  the  crumbs  are  a  delicate  brown. 

Anchovies. — These  are  small  fish  caught  in  the  Mediterranean  sea,  and  put  in 
salt  for  the  market.  They  are  used  for  relishes  like  sardines,  and  in  compound- 
ing sauces  for  meat  and  other  fish. 

Blue-fish. — This  can  be  baked  with  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs  and  season- 
ing, or  simply  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  bake  until  a  nice  golden  brown. 
This  is  a  delicious  fish  and  may  be  served  with  any  of  the  fish  sauces  liked  best. 
It  can  be  boiled  or  cut  in  steaks  and  fried  in  salt  pork  fat  in  the  frying-pan,  or 
cut  in  pieces  and  fried  in  hot  fat  until  of  a  rich  brown  color. 

Cat-fish. — They  must  be  scalded  with  boiling  water  and  the  skin  removed; 
cut  down  the  back  and  cut  in  pieces  as  large  as  the  hand;  then  fry  as  directed 
for  frying  fish. 

Codfish. — Codfish  Balls. — Take  equal  parts  of  nicely  picked  codfish,  mashed 
potatoes,  and  boiled  red  beets  chopped  finely.  Mold  into  balls,  brown  in  hot  fat 
of  salted  pork,  and  garnish  with  the  crisp  bits  of  fried  pork. 

Escaloped  Codfish. — Mix  2  cups  of  mashed  potato  with  1%  cups  of  cold  boiled 
codfish  picked  in  small  pieces,  2%  cups  of  sweet  milk  and  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg;  put  this  in  a  pudding  dish  nice  enough  to  set  on  the  table,  and  bake  a  light 
brown. 

Escaloped  Codfish,  No.  2. — Freshen  the  fish  and  pick  it  fine  and  light;  make  a 
thickened  milk  gravy,  and  when  scalded,  stir  in  2  beaten  eggs.  Into  a  pudding 
dish  put  a  layer  of  codfish,  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs;  moisten  with  the  sauce, 
and  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  alternate  layers  of  cod- 
fish, crumbs,  etc.,  until  the  dish  is  full,  finishing  with  crumbs.  Bake  it  in  the 
oven  as  you  would  escaloped  oysters. 

Codfish  Toast. — Shread  2  teacups  of  nice  salt  codfish,  and  soak  it  in  cold  wa- 
ter over  night.  In  the  morning  thicken  1  quart  of  milk  slightly  with  flour,  add  1 
well-beaten  egg,  and  boil  34  hour;  then  add  the  codfish  (which  should  have  been 
well  drained  in  a  colander)  let  it  boil  5  minutes  longer,  and  spread  it  over  nicOj 
well-buttered  toast;  serve  hot. 

Eels. — Skin  them,  wash,  cut  into  lengths  3  inches  long,  wipe  dry,  sprinkle  on 
pepper  and  salt  to  season,  roll  them  in  flour,  or  egg  and  bread-crumb  them,  and 
fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve  with  tomato,  pickle  or  any  acid  sauce.  They  can  also  be 
broiled,  boiled  or  stewed. 

Frogs. — The  hind  legs  only  are  used.  Skim  and  put  them  for  3  minutes  in 
boiling  salted  water  containing  a  little  lemon  juice;  then  drain  and  wipe  dry. 
Fry  the  fat  from  2  or  3  slices  of  thin  salt  pork;  dip  the  frogs'  legs  in  beaten  egg 
and  then  in  flour,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Or  dip  them  in  bread  crumbs,  then 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a 
golden  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat.    If  preferred,  they  can  be  broiled;  or  stew 


FlSH.  73 

them  in  a  little  water  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  herbs;  stew  until  tender, 

then  let  the  water  boil  out,  put  in  a  bit  of  butter  and  let  them  brown.     Serve 

with  parsley,  water-cresses  or  pepper-grass  and   lettuce.     Frogs'  legs  are  also 

made  into  a  broth  the  same  as  chicken  broth. 

Seventy  years  ago,  Charles  Lamb  wrote  to  a  friend:  "Since  I  saw  you  I  have  been  in 
France  and  have  eaten  frogs,  the  nicest  little  rabbity  things  you  ever  tasted.  Pick  off  the 
hind-quarters;  boil  them  plain,  and  serve  with  parsley  and  butter." 

Halibut,  Pickled. — Take  a  piece  of  cold  boiled  halibut,  put  it  in  a  bowl  and 
pour  over  it  hot  vinegar,   in  which  has  been  boiled  a  little  red  pepper  and  one  « 
blade  of  mace;  let  it  stand  2  days  before  using. 

Halibut  Steaks. — Fry  the  fat  thoroughly  from  4  thick  slices  of  clear  salt  pork; 
take  out  the  pork  when  crisp;  roll  the  steaks  in  flour  or  yellow  corn-meal,  and 
put  in  the  pan;  fry  over  a  hot  fire,  but  do  not  scorch;  when  done  on  one  side, 
turn  carefully  with  a  fish,  or  pie  knife,  and  when  done,  have  both  sides  a  golden 
brown.  Place  the  fish  on  a  platter;  send  to  the  table,  with  cream  gravy  made  in 
the  pan  after  taking  up  the  fish.    Serve  with  cucumber  pickles. 

Creamed  Salt  Mackerel. — Soak  the  fish  over  night,  and  wipe  dry  the  next 
morning;  heat  the  gridiron,  butter  it,  and  broil  the  fish  over  a  clear  fire;  lay  it  on 
a  hot  platter  while  you  make  a  sauce  as  follows:  Heat  1  cup  of  milk  to  near 
boiling,  and  thicken  it  with  2  teaspoons  of  corn-starch  rubbed  smooth  in  2  tea- 
spoons of  butter;  add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  when  taken  from 
the  stove  and  partly  cool,  stir  in  1  beaten  egg;  then  pour  it  over  the  fish  and 
serve.    A  nice  breakfast  dish  in  hot  weather. 

Fish  Roes. — The  hard,  yellow,  granular  roe  is  the  spawn  or  eggs  of  fish,  and 
the  soft,  whitish  roe  is  the  milt.  For  frying  (either  the  hard  or  the  soft)  wash 
them,  then  parboil  by  putting  them  for  10  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  con- 
taining 1  tablespoon  of  vinegar;  then  take  out,  plunge  in  cold  water,  drain,  egg 
and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  till  a  nice  brown.  They  are  also  sometimes 
sauted  or  fried  in  a  frying-pan,  being  first  cut  in  slices  %  inch  thick  and  egg  and 
bread-crumbed. 

Fish  Roes,  Baked. — Parboil  them  in  slightly  salted  water  for  10  minutes;  then 
drain  them  on  a  cloth,  lay  them  on  thin  slices  of  breakfast-bacon  in  a  baking-tin, 
place  thin  slices  of  bacon  over  the  roe,  and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  bacon  is 
baked  crisp  and  brown.     Serve  with  any  one  of  the  fish  sauces  preferred. 

Fish  Roes,  Boiled. — Boil  them  in  slightly  salted  water  for  30  minutes;  if  small, 
they  will  cook  in  less  time.  Do  not  let  them  break  in  pieces.  In  the  meantime 
make  a  nice  butter  gravy,  add  to  it  a  very  little  chopped  parsley,  and  pour  it  over 
the  roe,  after  placing  in  on  a  hot  platter. 

Fish  Roes,  Broiled. — Parboil  the  roes  for  10  or  15  minutes  in  slightly  salted 

water  to  harden  them,  drain  on  a  cloth,  and  wipe  them  dry;  dip  in  beaten  egg, 

roll  in  cracker-crumbs,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  of  coals  until  well  browned  on 

both  sides;  place  them  on  a  hot  platter,  spread  them  with  butter,  or  pour  over 

them  any  fish  sauce  preferred. 

The  fecundity  of  fish  has  always  excited  the  wonder  of  naturalists.  The  males  have 
the  milt,  and  the  females  the  roe.  The  greater  number  deposit  their  spawn  in  the  sand  or 
gravel,  but  some  of  those  who  dwell  in  the  depths  of  the  ocean  attach  their  eggs  to  sea- 
weeds. According  to Lewenhoeck,  the  cod  annually^pawn  upwards  of  9,000,000  of  eggs;  the 
flounder  1,000,000,  the  sturgeon  700,000;  the  perch  400,000;  the  mackerel  500,000;  the  herring 
10,000.    Fish  roes  form  a  cheap  and  appetizing  dish  for  those  who  like  them. 

Salmon  Cutlets. — Cut  slices  of  salmon  %  inch  thick,  remove  skin  and  bone, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  on  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.     Or  they  can  be  fried  in  a  frying-pan. 

Salmon  Steaks. — Salmon  steaks  are  good  broiled  and  served  with  piccalilli 


1i  FISH. 

heated  and  piled  in  the  middle,  and  with  a  hot  sauce  poured  round,  but  not  over 
the  fish.  A  very  simple  but  delicious  way  of  cooking  salmon  is  to  cut  it  in  slices, 
and  grill  it,  serving  it  at  once  with  a  good  squeeze  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  dust  of 
cayenne  on  each  side.    Large  trout  cooked  in  the  same  way  are  equally  good. 

Salmon  Toast. — Soak  2  oz.  of  bread  crumbs  in  cold  milk,  and  mix  with  a  can 
of  salmon  which  has  been  worked  to  a  paste.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  the  grated  peel  of  %  a  lemon.  Put 
into  a  dish,  and  on  top  place  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 
and  when  the  top  is  slightly  brown,  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Canned  Salmon. — A  good  way  to  serve  it  for  breakfast,  is  to  heat  it,  add  pep- 
per and  salt  to  season,  and  serve  on  slices  of  toast,  pouring  over  milk  thickened 
with  flour  and  butter. 

Another  way  to  use  canned  salmon  is  to  put  the  can  for  about  20  minutes  in  a 
kettle  of  hot  water;  then  turn  it  into  a  dish,  and  pour  on  drawn  butter,  to  which 
finely  cut  hard  boiled  eggs  and  chopped  parsley  has  been  added;  eat  with  mashed 
potatoes. 

Sardines. — Take  3  eggs,  3  sardines,  3  slices  of  buttered  toast.  Bone  the  sar- 
dines and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  and  cay- 
enne. Spread  this  paste  on  the  hot  buttered  toast.  Heat  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
and,  when  hot,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten  with  a  Dover  beater.  Stir  well  until 
almost  boiling;  then  pour  it  over  the  sardines  and  toast,  and  send  to  the  table. 
Sufficient  for  3  persons. 

To  serve  sardines,  the  oil  can  be  drained  from  them,  and  then  place  them  on 

any  small  ornamental  dish.    Some  people  cover  them  with  fresh  olive  oil,  and 

others  do  not,  as  tastes  differ.    They  can  be  garnished  with  parsley,  pepper -grass 

or  lettuce.    Set  a  dish  of  quartered  lemons  near  them. 

Sardines  belong  to  the  same  order  as  the  herring.  They  abound  in  the  Mediterranean, 
and  are  also  found  in  parts  of  the  Atlantic.  They  appear  in  shoals,  are  caught  with  nets, 
and  are  salted,  dried,  soaked  in  boiling  oil  and  put  into  boxes  and  covered  with  oil.  A 
good  many  of  the  fish  sold  as  sardines  are  really  sprats,  cured  and  preserved  in  the  same 
way.  A  variety  named  anchovied  sardines  are  sardines  that  have  been  cured  in  red  wine. 
Sardines  are  very  wholesome,  and  furnish  an  agreeable  addition  to  the  table. 

Shad. — Many  people  prefer  this  fish  baked.  Stuff  and  bake  it  as  directed  for 
baking  fish.    It  will  take  from  1  to  1%  hours  to  bake. 

Dressing  for  Baked  Shad. — Boil  up  the  gravy  in  which  the  shad  was  baked,  put 
in  a  large  tablespoon  of  browned  flour  which  has  been  wet  with  a  little  cold 
water,  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons.  Pour  it  around  the  fish  after  it  is  placed  on  the 
platter,  or  serve  it  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Smelts,  Baked. — This  delicious  little  fish  is  of  a  fine  silvery  appearance,  with 
a  light  fawn-colored  shade  on  the  back,  and  when  fresh,  has  an  odor  resembling 
cucumbers.  Wash  and  dry  them  with  a  cloth;  arrange  them  in  a  buttered  flat 
baking  dish;  cover  them  with  a  layer  of  fine,  fresh  bread  crumbs,  first  sprinkling 
the  fish  with  a  little  salt  and  white  pepper;  place  bits  of  butter  over  the  bread- 
crumbs and  bake  until  a  nice  brown,  say  20  or  30  minutes.  Send  to  the  table  in 
the  dish  in  which  they  were  baked;  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  them  just 
before  sending  to  the  table. 

Fried  Smelts.— They  may  be  fried  in  a  little  butter  after  the  manner  of  cook- 
ing small  trout,  or  in  the  fat  of  a  slice  of  salt  pork;  or  they  may  be  strung,  6  on 
a  wire  skewer,  dipped  in  egg  and  then  cracker  crumbs,  and  cooked  in  boiling  fat 
like  doughnuts.  Smelts,  small  trout,  and  all  small  pan-fish,  are  better  dressed 
with  scissors  than  with  a  knife. 


frtsit.  ?B 

Brook  Trout,  Broiled.— Split  the  fish  open,  take  out  the  backbone;  have 
melted  butter  ready,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  the  trout  in  it,  and  broil 
to  a  nice  brown  in  a  wire  broiler. 

Brook  Trout,  Fried. — Scald  them  in  boiling  water;  then  take  off  the  skin,  and 
take  out  the  backbone;  have  beaten  egg  ready,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper; 
dip  the  fish  in  it,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown  in  butter  or  oil. 

Lake  Trout  (Muskallonge). — This  should  be  cut  in  pieces  of  the  size  to  serve 
at  the  table,  then  rolled  in  cornmeal  and  fried  in  a  kettle  of  hot  fat  like 
doughnuts,  until  they  are  a  rich  golden  brown.  It  may  be  cut  in  slices  and  fried 
in  the  frying-pan  in  salt  pork  fat,  and  garnished  with  the  crisp  slices  of  pork.  It 
is  also  nice  stuffed  and  baked. 


BOILED  TROUT, 

Trout  au  Bleu.— Take  some  freshly  caught  trout;  clean  and  wipe  them;  put 
them  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  pour  over  them  a  pint  of  boiling  vinegar,  which  imme- 
diately turns-  them  blue;  then  add  a  pint  of  water  to  cover  the  fish;  add  4  bay 
leaves,  salt  and  pepper,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  half  a 
head  of  celery,  a  carrot,  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley;  cover  and  boil  J^  hour. 
Serve  with  fish  sauce,  or  oil  and  vinegar. 

Turbot. — Boiled  Turbot. — Let  it  soak  in  salted  water  3  or  4  hours  before  dress- 
ing, to  remove  the  slime.  Then  clean  well,  but  do  not  cut  off  the  fins;  make  an 
incision  down  the  back  to  prevent  the  skin  on  the  belly  from  cracking  when  it 
begins  to  swell  in  cooking;  rub  well  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  salt, 
and  boil  as  directed  for  boiling  fish.  As  soon  as  it  is  done,  drain,  garnish  and 
serve. 

Fried  Turbot. — Cut  some  remnants  of  boiled  turbot  into  neat  pieces,  steep 
them  in  a  marinade  of  lemon  juice,  oil,  pepper  and  salt  for  1  or  2  hours,  then  dip 
them  in  batter  and  fry  them  a  golden  brown  in  plenty  of  hot  fat. 

Salt  Fish. — Salt  fish  may  be  soaked  over  night,  changing  the  water  in  the 
morning;  always  put  it  in  the  water  flesh  side  down.  Salt  being  heavy,  will  be 
kept  in  the  fish  if  the  thick  skin  is  on  the  under  side  while  soaking.  Salted  sal- 
mon may  be  freshened  by  putting  it  in  sweet  milk,  and  letting  it  stand  until  the 
milk  is  sour.  Salt  fish  that  has  been  soaked  in  several  waters  does  not  need  much 
boiling,  5  or  10  minutes  after  it  is  picked  in  pieces  is  enough — too  long  boiling 
hardens  it  and  renders  it  indigestible.  Milk,  either  sweet  or  sour,  is  one  of  the 
best  things  to  soak  salt  fish  in  to  freshen  it.  Salt  fish  should  never  be  chopped; 
it  should  be  picked  into  small  pieces.  It  can  be  reduced  to  fine  threads  by  rub- 
bing with  a  potato  masher,  and  will  then  mix  with  any  other  ingredients  more 
readily  than  when  chopped. 

Remnants  of  Fish. — Fish  Cakes. — Take  the  remnants  of  any  cold  fish,  pull 
them  to  pieces,  and  thoroughly  incorporate  with  them  a  small  piece  of  butter  and 
some  mashed  potatoes;  season  the  whole  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  lit- 


76  PISH. 

tie  cayenne  if  desired.  Form  the  mixture  into  cakes,  and  fry  in  butter  till  of  a 
golden  color.    Serve  garnished  with  parsley. 

Escaloped  Fish. — Into  a  baking  dish  put  alternate  layers  of  sliced  or  mashed 
potatoes,  and  any  remnants  of  broiled,  fried  or  baked  fish  left  from  dinner;  season 
with  parsley,  pour  over  a  cream  sauce,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  %  hour. 

Fish  Pie.— Take  any  cold  fish  left  from  dinner,  pick  in  small  pieces,  carefully 
removing  every  bone,  and  season  to  taste.  Have  a  kettle  of  hot  mashed  potato, 
put  half  the  potato  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish,  then  spread  on  it  the  fish 
and  cover  with  the  remainder  of  the  potato.  Smooth  over  the  top,  and  brown  in 
the  oven  10  minutes.     Cheap  and  good  for  supper  or  breakfast. 

Fish  and  Oyster  Pie. — Take  any  remains  of  cold  fish,  such  as  cod  or  haddock,  2 
doz.  oysters,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  bread  crumbs  sufficient  for  the  quantity  of 
fish,  %  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Clean 
the  fish  from  the  bones  and  put  a  layer  of  it  in  a  pie  dish,  which  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt,  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  oysters,  nutmeg  and  chopped 
parsley,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  quite  full.  You  may  form  a  covering  either 
of  bread  crumbs,  which  should  be  browned,  or  puff  paste,  which  should  be  cut 
off  into  long  strips  and  laid  in  cross-bars  over  the  fish,  with  a  line  of  the  paste 
first  laid  round  the  edge.  Before  putting  on  the  top,  pour  in  some  melted  but- 
ter, or  a  little  thin  white  sauce,  and  the  oyster  liquor,  and  bake.  Time — if  of 
cooked  fish  3^  of  an  hour;  if  made  of  fresh  fish  and  puff  paste,  %  of  an  hour. 

Re-dressed  Cold  Fish. — Cut  the  fish  into  square  pieces,  and  lay  them  neatly  in 
a  flat  dish;  then  cover  them  with  mayonnaise  sauce,  and  garnish  with  sliced  beet- 
root and  parsley.    White  fish  or  salmon  may  be  dressed  in  this  way. 

Potted  Fish. — Clean  the  fish,  skin  it,  remove  the  larger  bones,  and  cut  it  in 
pieces.  Mix  together  3  tablespoons  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  peppercorns,  1 
saltspoon  of  cayenne,  and  %  CUP  °f  ealt.  Into  a  small  stone  jar  (not  earthen- 
ware) pack  the  fish  in  layers,  sprinkling  the  mixture  of  spices  between  the  layers. 
Put  in  vinegar  enough  to  cover,  tie  a  thick  paper  over  the  top,  and  bake  5  or  6 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  will  keep  some  time  in  a  cool  place  (if  kept  under 
the  vinegar),  and  can  be  eaten  cold  or  hot,  making  a  fine  relish  for  tea  or  lunch. 
The  bones  will  be  dissolved  by  the  vinegar. 


SHELL-FISH. 

Under  the  head  of  shell-fish  we  include  oysters,  clams,  crabs,  lobsters,  shrimps, 
prawns,  mussels,  crayfish,  scallops,  and  terrapin  or  turtle. 

Of  the  shell-fish,  oysters  are  the  most  valuable,  not  only  for  their  flavor,  but 
for  the  ease  with  which  they  can  be  taken  by  invalids,  and  for  the  nutritious 
qualities  they  possess.  Lobsters  and  clams  are  more  difficult  of  digestion,  but  are 
much  liked  by  many  persons.  Lobsters  and  clams  should  be  perfectly  fresh,  as 
many  cases  of  illness  have  been  caused  by  eating  them  after  decomposition  has 
begun.  All  shell-fish  should  be  kept  near  ice  both  before  and  after  being  cooked, 
if  there,  is  a  remainder  after  the  meals,  except  in  cold  and  freezing  weather. 

CLAMS. 

Clams  are  good  during  the  months  when  oysters  are  not  in  season — those 
without  an  "r."    If  only  eaten  when  fresh,  they  are  wholesome. 

Clams  au  Gratin. — Chop  all  the  hard  part  of  uncooked  clams;  to  a  cup  of 
clams  add  a  cup  of  fine  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  reserving  a  little  for  the  top  of 
the  mixture  before  it  is  placed  in  the  oven;  add  also  to  the  chopped  clams  a  des- 
sertspoon of  chopped  onion,  a  small  teaspoon  of  marjoram  and  sage,  a  little 
chopped  celery,  some  cayenne  and  salt;  moisten  all  with  the  broth  of  the  clams; 
fill  buttered  shells  with  the  mixture,  sprinkle  crumbs  over  the  top,with  some  bits 
of  butter,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  20  minutes;  garnish  with  parsley  when 
served. 

Clam  Chowder. — Take  1  quart  of  clams  and  chop  them  fine;  6  large  fresh 
crackers,  1  onion,  sliced,  6  potatoes,  cut  in  dice.  In  an  iron  pot  fry  2  slices  of 
salt  pork;  take  it  out  soon,  leaving  the  fat  in  the  pot;  put  in  2  or  3  slices  of  onion, 
then  a  layer  of  the  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  the  chopped  clams,  sprinkle  well  with 
salt  and  pepper;  then  a  layer  of  the  onion,  then  the  bits  of  fried  pork,  cut  into 
small  pieces;  add  a  layer  of  broken  crackers;  put  in  the  remainder  in  the  same 
way;  then  add  the  clam  liquor,  and  enough  water  to  more  than  cover  them.  Cook 
20  minutes,  or  until  the  potatoes  are  done;  add  2  cups  hot  milk  just  before  serv- 
ing.   Sufficient  for  8  persons. 

Escaloped  Clams. — Scald  the  clams,  remove  the  hard  part  and  chop  the  rest. 
Make  a  soup  of  the  liquor,  with  enough  water  added  to  make  it  fresh  enough; 
thicken  it  and  make  sufficiently  rich  with  butter.  Butter  a  scalloped  dish,  strew 
the  bottom  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  moisten  them  with  the  soup,  then 
spread  a  layer  of  clams  seasoned  with  pepper,  and  continue  alternately  till  the 
dish  is  full,  the  last  layer  being  crumbs  moistened  with  soup.  Bake  %  hour,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Stewed  Clams. — Chop  the  clams,  and  gently  simmer  them  in  their  own  liquor, 
over  a  slow  fire,  for  an  hour;  then  add  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  stir  until  ,it  thickens.  The  flour  being  mixed  with  the  butter  will  not 
cook  in  lumps.  If  the  flavor  of  onions  is  liked,  rub  the  platter  with  a  raw  onion. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  the  platter  with  nicely  browned  halves  of  crackers,  pour  the 
hot  stew  over  them,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Clams  on  Toast. — Take  the  clams  out  of  the  shell  and  cut  their  heads  off;  boil 
them  in  their  own  liquor;  skim  it  well,  and  add  as  much  water  or  milk  as  there 
is  liquor;  thicken  with  flour  or  powdered  rice  to  the  consistency  of  cream;  add 

(77) 


78  SHELL-FISH. 

butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Have  some  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast 
prepared,  pour  on  enough  of  the  liquor  to  soften  the  toast  and  lay  3  or  4  clams  on 
each  slice.  Serve  at  once,  on  hot  plates.  Garnish  with  parsley.  A  teacup  of  hot 
water  will  "start  the  steam"  for  3^  peck  of  clams;  the  amount  of  liquor  which 
each  shell  contains  will  surprise  the  novice.  As  few  like  the  liquor  full  strength, 
it  is  better  to  dilute  it  %,  as  above  directed. 

CRABS. 

A  crab  of  the  medium  size  is  the  best,  and  the  crab,  like  the  lob- 
ster, should  be  judged  by  its  weight.  It  should  be  heavy  for  its  size,  for  if 
light,  it  is  watery.  They  are  called  "soft  shell  crabs"  when  the  new  shell  is  form- 
ing, as  they  shed  their  shell  annually.  They  are  a  similar  shell-fish  to  lobster, 
and  are  prepared  in  the  same  ways  for  the  table. 

Browned  Crabs. — Take  the  great  shell,  clean  and  butter  it;  mince  all  the  fish, 
shred  some  parsley,  mushrooms,  truffles,  and  a  small  onion.  Brown  these  in  a 
sauce-pan  with  a  very  little  butter;  put  in  the  minced  crab  with  the  inside  bruised, 
and  some  cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  stir  this  about,  shake  in  some  flour,  and  add 
a  little  coral.  Let  this  simmer  up,  fill  up  the  shell,  strew  over  crumbs  of  bread 
with  a  small  piece  of  butter;  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Deviled  Crabs. — Boil  the  crabs,  take  out  the  meat  and  chop  it  fine;  then  add 
%  as  much  bread  crumbs,  cream  or  a  cream  sauce,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  mustard 
and  lemon  juice.  Clean  the  shells,  fill  them  with  the  mixture,  dust  them  with 
cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  them  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Deviled  crabs  should 
always  be  seasoned  high. 

Escaloped  Crabs. — Take  the  meat  of  boiled  crabs,  chop  it  fine;  add  cream  or 
cream  sauce,  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and  a  little 
lemon  juice.  Clean  the  shells,  put  in  the  mixture,  dust  on  bread  crumbs,  and 
bake  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Fried  Soft  Shell  Crabs. — Remove  the  sand  bags,  etc.,  wash  and  dry  them; 
sprinkle  on  pepper  and  salt,  roll  them  in  flour,  then  in  egg,  then  in  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Kromeskies  of  Crabs. — Boil  for  40  minutes,  1  or  more  crabs;  when  cool,  pick 
them  out  in  as  large  pieces  as  possible.  Mash  fine  the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  add  them  to  the  crabs,  with  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  whole  egg 
well  beaten,  and  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  cayenne.  Mix  carefully,  and 
form  into  tiny  rolls;  wrap  each  in  a  very  thin  slice  of  bacon,  dip  it  in  fritter 
batter,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.    Serve  on  a  napkin;  garnish  with  cress. 

CRAY-FISH,  PRAWNS  AND   SHRIMPS. 

These  are  much  like  lobsters,  only  smaller,  and  they  are  to  be  found  in  pro- 
vision stores  in  hermetically  sealed  cans,  already  cooked,  and  the  meats  picked 
from  the  shells.  They  are  used  whole  and  boiled  for  garnisning  boiled  fowls  and 
all  kinds  of  boiled  fish.  They  are  boiled  in  the  same  manner  as  lobsters,  but  for  a 
much  shorter  time,  from  5  to  15  minutes  being  the  rule.  After  boiling,  they  may 
be  broken  in  pieces,  shells  and  all  together,  and  form  a  foundation  for  a  delicious 
soup,  with  any  additions  preferred. 

These  shell-fish  make  ornamental  side  dishes,  served  whole,  and  garnished 
with  parsley  and  nasturtiums. 

Buttered  Shrimps  or  Prawns. — Pick  1  pint  of  shrimps  or  prawns,  and  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  %  pint  of  bouillon;  add  a  thickening  of  butter  and  flour; 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  cayenne  and  nutmeg,  and  simmer  gently  for  3  minutes. 
Serve  on  a  dish  garnished  with  fried  bread  or  toasted  sippets.  Cream  sauce  may 
be  substituted  for  the  gravy. 


SHELL-FISH.  79 

Curried  Cray-fish,  Prawns  and  Shrimps. — For  a  can  of  these  shell-fish, 
melt  a  small  cup  of  butter  in  a  pan;  add  a  saltspoon  of  curry-powder,  a  sour 
apple  chopped  finely,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  ^  pint  of  hot  water;  a  small  onion 
may  be  added  if  liked.  When  all  the  ingredients  are  well  scalded  together,  add 
a  tablespoon  of  corn-starch  wet  with  a  little  water,  and  stir  until  it  thickens; 
add  the  can  of  shell-fish  to  the  curry  sauce.  Let  it  get  quite  hot — do  not  boil — 
then  serve. 

Potted  Cray-fish,  Prawns  or  Shrimps, — Pick  the  meat  from  50  cray-fish  and 
pound  it  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  nutmeg, 
and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  The  butter  must  be  slightly  softened, 
but  not  melted,  and  the  ingredients  should  be  thoroughly  mixed.  Put  it  in  small 
earthen  pots,  pack  tightly,  and  cover  with  salad  oil;  then  cover  in  such  a  way  as 
to  entirely  exclude  the  air.  The  earthen  pot  can  be  had  of  apothecaries,  with  the 
covers;  the  potted  cray-fish  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place. 

Prawns  and  shrimps  may  be  potted  in  the  same  manner. 

IiOBSTERS. 

The  largest  lobsters  are  not  as  good  as  those  of  a  medium  size,  and  those  full 
of  eggs  are  inferior.  Lobsters  should  be  put  in  cold  water  to  boil,  for  they  are 
dead  as  soon  as  the  water  becomes  warm,  and  suffer  less  than  when  plunged  into 
boiling  water;  they  are  done  when  they  have  boiled  about  20  minutes.  Lobsters 
are  not  poisonous  if  perfectly  fresh;  there  is  no  poison  "lady"  in  the  lobster. 
The  stomach  near  the  head  is,  of  course,  taken  out,  and  also  the  "string"  or 
intestine  which  goes  through  the  lobster;  all  the  rest  is  edible.  The  green 
tomally  or  liver  can  be  eaten,  and  do  not  waste  the  sweet  meat  between  the 
bones  of  the  body.  Lobsters  that  were  alive  when  put  into  the  water  to  boil,  will 
have  the  tail  curled  up,  while  one  that  was  dead  will  have  the  tail  extended. 
Long  or  slow  cooking  will  toughen  lobsters  and  make  them  indigestible.  Brush- 
ing the  large  shells  on  the  outside  with  olive  oil,  is  thought  to  preserve  the 
bright  red  color.  Cayenne  pepper,  mustard,  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  should  be 
eaten  with  lobsters;  they  are  digested  with  difficulty. 

To  kill  a  lobster  quickly  and  easily,  cut  the  spinal  cord  by  pushing  a  long, 
narrow-bladed  knife  into  the  tail,  slanting  the  blade  downward,  and  inserting  it 
at  the  third  joint,  counting  from  the  end. 

Lobster  coral  can  be  kept  a  long  time  if  put  in  a  jar  or  bottle  and  covered 
with  vinegar.  To  use,  soak  about  an  hour  in  water,  and  then  in  milk  for  the 
same  time;  wipe  dry,  and  use  like  fresh  coral.  During  the  season  it  is  well  to 
preserve  surplus  coral  in  this  way,  for  coloring  soups,  etc. 

Lobsters  Au  Gtratin. — Split  the  tail  and  body  of  the  lobster,  removing  the 
fish  and  taking  care  not  to  break  the  shells;  mince  the  fish,  and  put  all  into  a 
stew-pan  with  a  little  good  stock,  and  pepper  and  salt;  mix  it  well,  fill  the  shells 
with  the  mixture,  cover  them  well  with  bread  crumbs,  brush  over  with  clarified 
butter,  and  brown  it  in  a  hot  oven. 

Broiled  Lobster. — After  being  boiled,  a  lobster  may  be  broiled  as  follows: 
Take  the  claws  off  and  crack  them,  split  the  body  and  tail  in  two,  season  well 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne,  and  broil.  Serve  with  plain  butter,  or  with  a 
little  heated  catsup,  dashed  with  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Buttered  Lobster. — A  buttered  lobster  should  be  first  boiled  and  broken  up. 
Take  out  all  the  meat,  cut  it  small  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  plenty  of  butter, 
a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  and  stir  till  it  is  hot.  If  a  handsome  dish  of  2  or 
3  lobsters  be  desired,  the  tails  should  be  halved  and  broiled,  and  put  round  the 
dish  with  the  minced  lobster  in  the  middle. 

Lobster  Canapes. — For  this,  there  must  be  the  meat  of  a  medium-sized  lobster, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  and  mingled  with  the  green  fat;  pour  over  it  a  very  little 


80  SHELL-FISH. 

salad  oil  and  vinegar,  just  enough  to  moisten  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  10  or  15 
minutes.  Cut  thin  slices  of  bread  for  the  croutons,  trim  off  the  crust  to  make 
them  square,  or  cut  them  with  fancy-shaped  cutters,  and  fry  them  a  delicate 
brown,  on  a  griddle  well  buttered;  spread  the  croutons  on  a  platter  garnished 
with  parsley;  on  the  croutons  spread  the  lobster,  and  on  the  lobster  may  be  placed 
thin  slices  of  lemon,  or  sprinkle  them  well  with  capers. 

Lobster  Creamed. — Chop  finely  a  medium-sized  lobster  and  pour  over  it  a  pint 
of  cream;  put  in  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  and  3  eggs  well  beaten,  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper;  butter  a  mold,  fill  in  the  mixture,  invert  a  plate  over  the  top, 
and  steam  for  an  hour.     Serve  with  any  nice  fish  sauce. 

Lobster  Curry. — Put  %  cupful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  melted, 
stir  into  it  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1  heaping  saltspoon  of  curry  powder;  stir 
constantly  until  it  is  brown;  then  gradually  add  %  pint  of  hot  water,  stirring 
rapidly  until  it  thickens;  season  with  salt  to  taste.  Chop  coarsely  the  meat  and  fat 
of  a  medium-sized  lobster,  and  add  it  to  the  curry  sauce;  simmer  5  or  6  minutes, 
or  until  it  is  quite  hot;  if  onion  is  liked,  rub  the  hot  platter  with  a  raw  onion; 
place  on  the  platter  slices  of  nicely-toasted  bread,  and  pour  the  curried  lobster 
over  the  toast.    Serve  hot. 

Deviled  Lobster. — Cut  lobster  fine,  and  season  it  highly  with  salt,  cayenne, 
mustard,  chopped  parsley,  onion  juice,  if  desired,  and  some  pungent  sauce,  like 
Worcestershire;  place  the  mixture  in  the  lobster  shell,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs 
over  the  top,  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  till  brown  on  top.    Eat  hot  or  cold. 

Lobster  Patties. — Chop  a  medium-sized  lobster  very  finely,  and  mix  with  it 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  little  salt,  and  white  pepper,  and  salad  oil  enough  to 
moisten  it,  if  not  moist  enough;  line  patty-pans  with  puff  paste  and  put  into 
each  a  small  piece  of  bread;  put  on  a  top  crust  of  paste,  brush  over  with  beaten 
egg,  and  bake;  when  done,  takeoff  the  top  crust,  remove  the  bread,  fill  the  patties 
with  the  minced  lobster  (after  stirring  it  over  the  fire  with  the  seasoning  for  3  or 
4  minutes);  then  replace  the  top  crusts. 

Stewed  Lobster. — Cut  the  lobster  small  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  and  add 
just  a  little  water,  milk  or  cream,  the  latter  being  best,  although  the  first  will 
answer;  let  it  boil  up,  add  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and 
serve  hot,  either  on  toast  or  plain. 

MUSSELS. 

These  cheap  and  excellent  shell-fish  are  sometimes  called  the  poor  man's  oys- 
ter. They  are  sometimes  eaten  raw,  but  it  is  better  to  cook  them.  They  can  be 
fried,  broiled,  stewed,  or  pickled,  being  usually  prepared  for  the  market  by  pickling. 
The  "moss,"  or  byssus,  which  serves  to  attach  them  to  rocks,  etc.,  is  usually 
removed,  being  considered  poisonous,  although  there  is  no  proof  of  that.  Still,  it 
is  better  to  remove  it  after  being  boiled  and  before  serving  them. 

Boiled  Mussels. — Clean  the  shells  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  water 
slightly  salted  and  containing  a  little  vinegar;  heat  until  the  shells  open  and  they 
are  done.  Remove  them  from  the  shells,  trim  off  the  "  moss,"  strain  the  liquor, 
add  a  little  flour,  the  yolks  of  1  or  2  eggs,  pour  over  the  mussels  and  serve  at 
once.    Chopped  parsley  may  be  added  if  desired. 

OYSTERS. 

Oysters  are  only  good  during  the  months  containing  an  "r"  (that  is,  from  Sep- 
tember to  April)  as  their  multiplying  season  is  during  the  warm  weather,  and  at 
that  time  they  are  soft  and  tasteless.  They  are  not  easily  kept  in  warm  weather, 
being  a  fish  that  quickly  spoils.  Canned  oysters  can  be  used  in  hot  weather  if 
liked,  for  they  are  only  canned  in  their  season.    In  cooking  oysters,  great  care 


SHELL-FISH.  81 

should  be  taken,  that  they  may  not  be  cooked  too  long,  as  that  process  hardens 
them.  They  are  easily  digested  and  are  commonly  given  to  invalids,  although 
cooking  renders  them  a  little  less  digestible;  if  too  much  cooked,  they  are  tough 
and  leathery.  Always  buy  the  "  solid "  oysters,  or  those  containing  very  little 
juice,  as  they  are  sometimes  watered  and  it  is  more  economical  to  water  them 
yourself.  The  smallest  oysters  are  used  for  stews  and  escalops,  and  are  sold  by 
measure,  as  are  the  "  straights,"  that  is,  the  large  and  small  mixed.  The  largest 
oysters  are  usually  sold  by  the  dozen  for  broiling  and  frying;  they  are  called 
"  counts,"  and  "  selects." 

Never  salt  oysters  until  just  before  serving,  as  cooking  them  with  salt  hardens 
them.  They  should  be  served  at  once  after  being  cooked.  Be  sure  that  all  bits 
of  shell  are  removed  before  cooking.  Do  not  open  them  until  just  before  using  if 
wanted  raw;  if  to  be  cooked,  do  not  keep  them  long  after  being  opened.  As  the 
crabs  are  usually  regarded  as  a  delicacy,  save  any  which  are  found  among  the 
oysters.  As  oysters  in  cooking  produce  liquor  enough  of  their  own,  there  is  less 
need  of  saving  their  liquor. 

Broiled  Oysters. — Take  as  many  large  oysters  as  are  needed,  dry  them  in  a 
towel,  rub  butter  on  the  bars  of  a  wire  gridiron,  brush  a  little  over  the  oysters, 
and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  If  the  wires  of  the  gridiron  are  close  together,  smaller 
ones  can  be  broiled.  Arrange  them  on  toast,  season  and  serve.  Or  they  can  be 
dipped  in  melted  butter,  then  rolled  in  crumbs  which  are  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  broiled  until  the  juice  flows;  this  saves  the  juice  more  and  many 
people  prefer  it. 

Creamed  Oysters. — Cook  3  tablespoons  of  flour  and  2  tablespoons  of  butter  to- 
gether until  they  bubble;  add  1  cup  milk  and  1  cup  of  oyster  liquor,  and  stir  until 
you  have  a  thick  sauce;  into  this  drop  1  quart  of  oysters  freed  from  their  liquor. 
Have  ready  an  egg  beaten  light  in  a  cup,  mix  some  of  the  hot  sauce  with  it,  turn 
all  back  into  the  saucepan,  stir  1  minute  (not  longer)  and  take  from  the  fire. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Serve  on  toast,  or  put 
the  creamed  oysters  into  buttered  scallop-shells;  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven.    Eat  hot. 

Deviled  Oysters. — Drain  the  oysters  and  dry  in  a  clean  towel;  then  put  them 
in  a  dish,  and  cover  with  a  mixture  of  melted  butter  and  vinegar  or  lemon  juice, 
adding  a  little  pepper  sauce  or  cayenne  pepper  if  desired;  let  them  soak  5  or  10 
minutes  and  take  them  out;  dip  them  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg, 
and  again  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Escaloped  Oysters. — Roll  1  quart  of  crackers  fine  with  the  rolling  pin.  Grease 
the  baking  dish  as  you  would  before  baking  a  cake  in  it.  Put  a  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs  in  the  dish;  drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  add  twice  the  quantity 
of  milk  to  it;  moisten  the  crumbs  with  some  of  this,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  oysters 
with  a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  the  layers  of  crumbs 
alternately  with  the  oysters  in  this  way  until  all  are  in,  with  a  layer  of  crumbs 
and  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Beat  1  egg  and  add  to  it  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and 
oyster  liquor,  or  if  none  remains,  add  a  little  milk  to  the  egg  and  pour  it  over  all. 
Put  a  cover  over  it  and  bake  %  hour;  then  remove  the  cover  and  bake  %  hour 
longer. 

Fried  Oysters. — Take  large  sized  oysters,  parboil  slightly,  drain,  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  cool  20  minutes.  Then  roll  each  one  separately  in  bread 
crumbs,  then  in  beaten  eggs  and  milk  mixed,  then  again  season,  and  again  roll  in 
bread  crumbs.  Put  into  boiling  hot  lard  and  fry  1  minute;  take  out,  lay  on  paper 
to  absorb  surplus  grease,  garnish  and  serve. 

They  can  also  be  fried  in  the  frying-pan.    Prepare  as  above,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  only,  and  fry  on  each  side  until  brown,  using  butter  for  the  fat. 
6 


82  SHELL-FISH. 

Fricassee  of  Oysters. — Put  about  75  oysters  on  the  fire  in  their  liquor  and  an 
equal  quantity  of  chicken  broth;  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  when  all  conies  to 
a  boil,  remove  from  the  fire;  in  another  stew-pan  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  1% 
tablespoons  of  flour;  stir  them  together  carefully  so  as  not  to  color;  add,  slowly, 
the  liquor  and  oysters  from  the  other  stew-pan,  then  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1 
saltspoon  of  white  pepper  and  salt  mixed,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley;  let 
the  mixture  become  thoroughly  hot,  but  do  not  boil;  serve  as  soon  as  possible. 

Oyster  Fritters. — Have  ready  a  batter  made  as  follows:  Dissolve  1  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  4  tablespoons  of  water  or  oyster  liquor,  and  stir  to  this 
1%  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour;  mix  well  over  the  fire.  Take  it  off  and  mix  in,  one 
after  the  other,  3  eggs,  and  a  little  salt.  Beard  and  scald  the  oysters,  dip  each 
into  the  batter,  fry  lightly  in  smoking  hot  fat,  and  serve. 

Oysters  On  the  Half  Shell. — Do  not  open  them  until  just  before  they  are 
served,  and  then  leave  each  one  in  half  the  shell.  Allow  about  %  doz.  large  oys- 
ters for  each  guest.  Put  them  on  a  dinner  plate,  and  in  the  center  of  the  dish 
put  1  or  2  slices  of  lemon  cut  thin. 

Oysters  and  Macaroni. — Take  some  macaroni,  boil  until  soft,  put  a  layer  into 
a  baking  dish,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  oysters;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter, 
and  so  on  with  alternate  layers  of  macaroni  and  oysters,  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Then  bake  till  brown,  and  serve. 

Oyster  Omelet. — Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  6  eggs  separately;  to  the  yolks 
add  %  CUP  of  rich  milk  or  thin  cream,  a  little  salt,  and  12  oysters,  chopped  fine. 
Put  butter  in  your  frying-pan,  as  for  an  ordinary  omelet,  and  allow  it  to  heat 
while  you  are  mixing  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  the  rest  of  the  ingredients. 
Mix  the  whole  lightly  and  turn  into  the  pan.  Shake  to  prevent  burning,  and  as 
soon  as  the  omelet  is  set,  or  begins  to  be  firm,  turn  one  half  over  the  other  half 
quickly,  slip  on  to  a  hot  platter  and  serve  at  once.  Good,  but  not  as  economical 
as  many  dishes. 

Panned  Oysters. — Remove  the  crust  from  thin  slices  of  stale  bread,  toast  it, 
cut  it  in  pieces,  and  fit  them  into  muffin  or  patty-pans;  moisten  with  oyster 
liquor;  put  oysters  on  the  toast,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  put  a  bit  of  butter  on 
each  one;  cover  with  a  dripping-pan,  or  any  convenient  cover  to  prevent  the 
escape  of  steam,  and  cook  in  a  quick  oven;  they  will  be  done  when  the  oysters 
curl  (in  6  or  8  minutes).    Then  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  hot. 

Oyster  Patties. — Make  a  rich  puff  paste  and  bake  it  in  earthen  sauce-dishes. 
Wash  nice  fresh  oysters  in  warm,  salted  water;  drain  and  put  in  a  sauce-pan, 
with  a  piece  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  if  liked.  Cook  them  only 
until  they  are  plump,  stirring  with  a  silver  fork  while  plumping;  when  cold,  fill 
the  crusts  and  send  to  the  table.  If  liked  hot,  the  crusts  can  be  filled  before 
baking  with  the  plumped  oysters,  and  sent  from  the  oven  to  the  table. 

Oyster  Pie.— Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  puff  paste;  dredge  with  flour;  pour  in 
1  pint  of  oysters,  season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over 
the  oysters;  pour  on  some  oyster  liquor  and  cover  with  a  crust,  with  a  hole  in  the 
top  for  steam  to  escape.    Bake  30  minutes. 

Pickled  Oysters. — Put  100  oysters  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  let  them  simmer  gently 
in  their  own  liquor  for  about  10  minutes;  take  them  out  one  by  one,  put  in  jars, 
and  when  cold,  cover  with  a  pickle  made  as  follows:  Measure  the  oyster  liquor 
and  add  to  it  the  same  amount  of  vinegar,  and  for  each  cup  of  vinegar,  add  1  blade 
of  pounded  mace,  12  cloves,  and  a  strip  of  lemon  peel;  boil  5  minutes,  and  when 
cold,  pour  over  the  oysters  and  cover  closely. 


SHELL-FISH.  83 

Pigs  in  Blankets. — Choose  large  oysters,  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  wrap 
each  one  in  a  slice  of  bacon  cut  very  thin,  and  fasten  with  a  wooden  toothpick. 
Cook  in  a  hot  frying-pan  just  long  enough  to  crisp  the  bacon.  Have  small  pieces 
of  toast  ready,  put  each  "pig"  on  one,  without  removing  the  skewer;  serve  at  once. 

Raw  Oysters. — In  cold  weather  these  are  much  better  to  lie  a  short  time  in 
warm  salted  water;  this  takes  the  chill  from  the  juice  of  the  oyster,  and  they 
are  more  agreeable  than  when  very  cold,  as  they  will  be  in  winter.  They 
may  be  eaten  with  just  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar,  but  some  persons  like  them 
served  with  one  of  the  appetizing-  sauces.  Nice  bread  and  butter  sandwiches 
are  good  with  raw  oysters. 

At  large  dinners  where  raw  oysters  are  served,  they  are  sometimes  brought  to 
each  individual  place  before  the  company  is  seated.  It  is  a  pleasant  and  home- 
like way  for  the  host  to  serve  them  from  a  platter  before  him,  on  small  dessert- 
plates.  Drain  the  oysters  well,  arrange  them  on  a  platter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  slice  lemon  over  them.  Thin  slices  of  buttered  brown  bread  may  be 
served  with  the  oysters.    Let  them  stand  in  the  ice  chest  3^  hour  before  serving. 

Steamed  Oysters. — Drain  them,  lay  on  a  plate  and  set  in  the  steamer,  and 
steam  for  about  10  minutes  till  they  look  white  and  plump.  Use  the  liquid  for  a 
dressing;  beat  it,  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  cream,  and  thicken  it  with  a 
little  corn -starch. 

Oyster  Stew. — Put  the  liquor  from  1  pint  of  oysters  with  1  cup  of  sweet  milk 
in  a  kettle;  let  it  just  boil,  add  the  oysters  and  let  it  boil  up  once;  then  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  with  a  few  crackers  toasted  and  broken  in  pieces. 
Never  salt  oysters  until  just  before  removing  from  the  fire,  or  they  will  shrivel  and 
harden. 

Smothered  Oysters. — Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  a  little  salt,  white  pepper  and  cayenne.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  oysters, 
which  have  been  washed  in  warm  water  slightly  salted,  and  thoroughly  drained 
and  dried  on  a  napkin;  when  the  butter  is  hot,  put  in  the  oysters  and  cook  them 
until  they  are  plump  (2  or  3  minutes);  stir  them  carefully  all  the  time  with  a 
silver  fork  to  prevent  them  from  sticking  to  the  sauce-pan.  Serve  on  toasted 
crackers. 

Oyster  Toast. — Chop  fine  1%  dozen  good  large  oysters,  and  season  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Beat  together  %  CUP  °f  cream  and  yolks  of  2 
eggs;  heat  the  oysters  till  they  simmer,  stir  in  the  egg  and  cream,  and  pour  it  on 
prepared  slices  of  buttered  toast. 

Oysters  Unshelled. — Take  oysters  in  the  shell;  wash  and  scrub  the  shell  till 

perfectly  clean;  then,  to  keep  in  the  juice,  set  them  with  the  round  shell  down. 

.  Either  steam  them  in  the  steamer  10  to  20  minutes,  or  roast  them  over  hot  coals 

on  a  gridiron,  or  put  them  in  the  dripping-pan  on  top  of  the  stove,  or  in  the  hot 

oven.    They  will  be  done  when  the  shells  open.    Then  take  off  the  flat  top  shell, 

and  season  each  one  with  a  little  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice.    Serve 

hot.    This  method  retains  the  natural  flavor  of  the  oyster  better  than  any 

other. 

SCALLOPS. 

This  fish  somewhat  resembles  the  oyster  in  appearance  and  the  crab  in  taste. 
It  is  comparatively  little  known,  although  when  fresh  and  well  cooked  it  is  very 
delicious.  It  is  found  in  all  parts  of  the  world,  and  in  ancient  times  the  shells 
were  used  extensively  in  cookery,  giving  us  our  prefix  of  "  scalloped."  They  are 
in  season  in  fall  and  winter.    The  muscle  by  which  it  opens  and  closes  its  shell  is 


84  SHELL-FISH. 

the  only  part  eaten.    They  can  be  stewed  like  oysters,  or  fry  them,  which  is  a  bet- 
ter way. 

Fried  Scallops. — Rinse  them  in  cold  water  slightly  salted,  and  dry  in  a  nap- 
kin; dip  them  in  cracker  dust  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  in  egg,  then  in 
crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  They  are  sometimes  dredged  with  flour  and 
fried  in  a  frying  pan  with  pork  fat. 

TERRAPIN  OR  TURTLE. 

To  dress  terrapin,  cut  off  the  head  and  bleed  thoroughly,  then  soak  in  cold 
water  for  an  hour.  Next  boil  10  or  15  minutes,  take  it  out  into  cold  water  and 
with  a  coarse  cloth  rub  off  all  the  black  skin.  Have  another  water  heating  in  the 
kettle,  and  when  the  turtle  is  cleaned,  boil  until  the  shell  loosens;  the  time  will 
vary  from  %  hour  to  2  hours,  according  to  the  age  of  the  terrapin.  When  done, 
put  in  cold  water  again,  take  off  the  under  shell  and  carefully  take  out  the  gall- 
sack  and  the  liver  and  sand  bag,  and  throw  away  the  head.  Be  careful  not  to 
break  the  gall-sack,  or  the  gall  will  escape  and  spoil  the  whole  dish.  Save  the 
juice  that  runs  from  the  meat,  opening  it  over  a  bowl  for  that  purpose.  The  eggs 
and  meat  are  served  in  various  ways.  If  made  into  a  soup  or  stew,  the  eggs  are 
put  in  and  served  with  it;  if  served  in  other  ways,  the  eggs  are  used  with  other 
decorations,  as  a  garnish.   In  whatever  way  served,  the  meat  must  be  cut  finely. 

Escaloped  Terrapin.— Put  a  cup  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  melt,  and  stir  in  2 
tablespoons  of  flour;  then  pour  on  a  pint  of  hot  water,  stirring  rapidly,  to  make 
a  smooth  gravy;  pound  the  terrapin  eggs  to  a  paste  and  add  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  trifle  of  nutmeg  to  taste;  then  strain.  For  a  quart  of  finely  cut  terrapin, 
have  a  quart  of  bread  crumbs  made  fine;  put  a  layer  of  terrapin  on  the  bottom 
of  a  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs,  then  of  sauce,  and  so  fill  the  dish, 
having  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  the  top.  Add  sweet  milk  enough  to  show  through 
the  top  layer  of  crumbs  if  it  is  not  sufficiently  moist;  put  on  a  few  bits  of  butter, 
and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.    Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Terrapin  Stew.— Make  a  sauce  as  for  escaloped  terrapin;  put  in  the  meat,  cut 
finely,  and  let  it  get  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  longer  than  a  minute.  Add  lemon 
juice  to  the  stew  if  liked.    Serve  with  croutons  or  toasted  crackers. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND 

MEATS. 

It  is  of  much  importance  that  the  cook  should  know  how  to  make  a  good 
sauce  for  her  meats,  etc.  A  great  deal  of  the  elegance  of  cooking  depends  upon 
having  the  accompaniments  of  each  dish  appropriate  and  well  adapted  to  it.  The 
most  homely  fare  may  be  made  relishing,  and  the  most  excellent  improved,  by  a 
well  made  sauce.  It  may  safely  be  asserted  that  a  first  rate  sauce  maker  is  also  a 
good  cook.  Sauces  are  necessary  in  the  most  modest  kitchen,  and  they  are  as 
easily  made  rightly  as  wrongly,  if  one  only  knows  how,  so  that  this  branch  of  the 
art  of  cookery  deserves  very  careful  attention.  A  busy  and  economical  house- 
wife will  sometimes  say  she  has  no  time  or  money  for  sauces,  when  as  a  matter  of 
fact  she  cannot  afford  to  do  without  them,  for,  by  using  flavorings  is  the  best  way 
to  induce  the  system  to  take  plain  food  with  relish;  and  when  we  say  this,  we  are 
not  unmindful  of  the  old  saying  that  "hunger  is  the  best  sauce."  Animals 
certainly  would  hardly  be  considered  over  particular,  and  yet  they  have  been 
known  to  starve  in  the  experimenter's  hands  rather  than  eat  a  nutritious  food 
from  which  the  flavor  had  been  extracted  and  of  which  they  had  become  tired. 
We  are  convinced  that  poor  people  especially  are  too  much  inclined  to  neglect 
the  very  important  matter  of  flavorings  and  relishes  for  their  food. 

The  Utensils. — To  make  sauces  successfully,  proper  utensils  should  be  pro- 
vided. The  most  essential  are  wooden  spoons  and  round  bottomed  sauce-pans. 
It  is  very  difficult  to  prevent  lumps  in  a  sauce  if  it  has  to  be  made  with  a  pointed 
spoon  and  a  flat  bottomed  pan.  All  utensils  must,  of  course,  be  scrupulously 
clean. 

Herbs,  etc. — Do  not  be  appalled  at  the  number  of  ingredients,  like  thyme, 
mace,  parsley,  etc.,  called  for  in  a  recipe.  A  few  cents  will  buy  enough  of  all  these 
things  to  last  for  a  year,  and  the  good  cook  aims  to  keep  a  small  supply  of  all 
flavoring  herbs  on  hand;  but  if  you  do  not  have  them  all,  very  good  results  may 
be  produced  with  less. 

Thickening. — The  most  common  thickening  for  sauce  is  flour.  The  quantity 
generally  used  is  1  ounce,  or  a  heaping  tablespoon  to  a  pint  of  liquid;  though  2  or 
3  times  that  is  needed  to  make  a  sauce  thick  enough  to  adhere  to  what  it  is 
poured  over.  Corn-starch  or  arrowroot  is  often  used  instead  of  flour,  and  makes 
a  smooth  and  more  delicate  sauce.  All  sauces  containing  flour  or  any  other  form 
of  starch  for  thickening,  must  boil,  and  must  be  stirred  until  it  boils,  or  the  starch 
will  settle  to  the  bottom  and  make  lumps,  instead  of  thickening  the  whole.  Al- 
though the  starch  swells,  and  thickens  the  liquid  even  before  the  boiling  point 
is  reached,  even  in  this  pulverized  form  the  starch  needs  to  cook  10  minutes  at 
least,  to  be  made  digestible ;  it  should  be  remembered  that  all  starch  needs  at 
least  that.  There  is  some  difference  in  the  quality  of  flour  and  it  does  not 
thicken  the  same  at  one  time  as  another.  Dry  flour  must  never  be  mixed  with 
hot  liquid  unless  it  is  intended  to  form  lumps;  but  it  must  first  be  stirred  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  cold  liquid,  and  then  the  hot  poured  over  it,  or  it  must  be 
mixed  with  a  little  melted  fat  over  the  fire  when  hot,  or  cold  liquid  can  be  grad- 
ually added.  As  a  general  rule,  the  following  is  the  best  way  to  mix  all  flour 
sauces :  Melt  the  fat,  ,stir  in  the  flour,  and  when  they  are  well  mixed,  and  there 
are  no  lumps,  add  liquid  gradually,  on  or  off  the  fire,  stirring  continuously  till  all 
boils.  Sometimes  the  flour  is  cooked  in  the  fat  until  it  takes  a  brown  color,  more 
or  less  dark.  Sauces  thus  made  have  a  fine  flavor,  and  are  smooth  and  free  from 
grease.  All  the  different  kinds  of  brown  sauces  are  made  by  using  brown  stock, 
browning  the  butter,  and  using  various  seasoning  materials.  As  flour,  when 
cooked  into  brown  roux  does  not  thicken  quite  as  much  as  when  uncooked,  rather 
more  is  needed. 

Eggs  are  also  used  to  thicken  sauces,  sometimes  the  yolk  only,  sometimes 

(85) 


86  SAUCES  FOR  PISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS. 

both  yolk  and  white,  and  both  with  and  without  the  addition  of  flour.  They 
must  be  well  stirred  and  never  allowed  to  heat  to  boiling,  as  the  yolk  then  hard- 
ens, and  will  not  mix  with  the  sauce;  but  they  must  be  heated  enough  to  slightly 
coagulate  the  albumen,  or  the  sauce  does  not  thicken.  To  pour  boiling  water 
very  gradually  over  the  eggs  in  a  basin  is  often  sufficient.  The  safest  way  to 
cook  an  egg  sauce  is  in  a  basin  or  pitcher  standing  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  or 
in  a  bain  marie  made  on  purpose;  but  an  ordinary  sauce-pan  can  be  used  if  care 
is  exercised.  On  the  least  appearance  of  "curdling,"  the  sauce  should  be  lifted 
from  the  fire,  poured  into  a  cold  basin,  and  stirred.  Sauces  are  best  cooked  in  a 
double  boiler  to  guard  against  scorching  them  in  the  least,  which  should  be  care- 
fully avoided. 

About  coloring  for  sauces,  it  may  be  said  that  they  should  as  a  rule  be  of 
some  decided  color.  In  order  to  get  these  decided  colors,  artificial  coloring  mat- 
ter is  often  used.  Brown  is  the  most  common  and  the  most  harmless,  for  it  is 
produced  by  roasted  flour,  sugar  or  vegetables,  which  add  to  the  flavor  as  well  as 
appearance,  if  not  carried  to  the  point  of  burning.  Onion  skins  contain  much 
coloring  of  a  harmless  kind.  Home-made  brown  roux  is  to  be  preferred  to  that 
which  is  bought,  and  is  much  cheaper.  Milk,  cream,  or  white  stock  are  used  in 
white  sauces.  Lobster  spawn  gives  a  brilliant  scarlet.  Spinach  green  is  always 
harmless,  and  is  the  only  green  suitable  for  kitchen  use,  as  many  greens  contain 
arsenic.    Other  harmless  colors  are  given  in  our  article  on  frosting  for  cake. 

Good  fresh  butter  only  should  be  used  for  first  rate  sauces.  Inferior  or  rancid 
butter  should  never  be  used;  it  is  not  as  good  as  fresh  beef  dripping  or  fat. 
Where  economy  is  studied,  it  is  better  to  use  less  butter  and  have  that  good,  than 
to  buy  a  large  quantity  of  cheap  cooking  butter.  Meat  should  always  be  suffi- 
ciently fat  to  "cook  itself,"  that  is,  it  should  furnish  enough  oil  for  the  gravy — if 
it  does  not,  it  is  poor  meat.  Good  salad  oil  is  much  used  in  salads,  and  dishes 
made  of  dry  cooked  meats,  as  the  gravy  is  mostly  served  with  the  hot  meat  at 
dinner. 

Serve  hot. — Gravies  and  sauces  should  be  sent  to  the  table  very  hot.  Being 
made  in  small  quantities,  they  are  more  liable  to  cool  quickly  than  if  they  were  in 
a  larger  body.  If  made  before  the  moment  of  serving,  they  should  be  kept  in  a 
sauce-pan  of  boiling  water;  a  fish  kettle  makes  a  good  improvised  bain  marie. 

Roux  (pronounced  Roo). — Brown  Roux,  for  thickening  gravies  and  sauces,  is 
made  by  melting  butter  in  a  stew-pan  and  adding  an  equal  quantity  of  flour. 
Stir  constantly  while  it  is  browning,  so  that  it  will  not  burn;  when  of  a  nice  yel- 
lowish brown,  put  it  in  jars,  cover  tightly,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  dark  place.  It  is 
then  ready  to  use  at  any  time  by  taking  1  or  2  heaping  spoonfuls,  according  to 
the  quantity  of  soup,  and  stirring  it  in  while  the  soup  is  boiling,  and  it  will 
instantly  thicken.  This  is  the  Brown  Roux  used  by  foreign  cooks.  The  White 
Roux  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  but  only  cooked  together  for  a  few  minutes 
without  browning.  Many  prefer  the  bits  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  used  as 
occasion  requires;  then  there  is  no  danger  of  rancidity  or  waste,  as  there  might 
be  if  a  quantity  of  roux  was  prepared  and  it  was  not  needed  for  use,  as  expected. 

SAUCES. 

Anchovy  Sauce. — Take  1  cup  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of 
anchovy  paste  or  extract. 

Aspic  Jelly. — Take  a  tablespoon  of  good  extract  of  meat;  put  2  quarts  of 
water  to  it,  and  add  a  small  onion  cut  finely,  or  a  bit  of  garlic,  a  pinch  of  celery- 
seed,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  carrot  cut  finely,  with  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  few 
drops  of  tarragon  vinegar.  Let  all  boil  slowly  together  until  the  vegetables  are 
soft.  Have  2  large  tablespoons  of  gelatine  soaking  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover, 
and  add  when  the  vegetables  are  done.  Stir  in  the  softened  gelatine  until  it  is 
dissolved,  and  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  slightly 
beaten;  now  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  set  back  on  the  range  for  15  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  jelly-bag  until  clear,  pour  into  a  mould,  and  place  on  ice.  Aspic  jelly 
is  used  as  a  garnish  for  various  meat  dishes.  A  plain  lemon  jelly  made  with 
gelatine,  answers  every  purpose  for  decorations,  instead  of  this  elaborate  jelly. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS.  8? 

Bechamel  or  White  Sauce. — Put  %  a  cup  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan  and  let  it 
soften;  mix  with  it  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  then  add  1  pint  of  milk;  set  the  sauce- 
pan in  a  larger  one  containing  hot  water,  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens,  and 
let  it  scald;  rub  out  the  lumps,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  This  can  be 
used  as  a  foundation  for  many  other  sauces.  A  few  bits  of  celery,  sprigs  of 
parsley  and  a  little  nutmeg  can  be  added,  with  a  sliced  onion,  if  desired,  for 
flavor;  scald  15  minutes,  strain  through  cloth  to  remove  the  onion,  etc.,  and  send 
to  the  table.    It  is  often  made  with  ^  milk  and  %  stock. 

BORDEAUX  SAUCE. 

2  quarts  of  cider  vinegar.   1  ounce  of  turmeric.  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  salt. 

2  quarts  finely  chopped       1  teaspoon  celery  seed.      1  teaspoon  of  ground  mustard. 

green  tomatoes.  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger.  1  teaspoon  of  ground  black  pepper. 

2  quarts   finely  chopped  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves.  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar. 

cabbage. 

Mix  all  together  and  cook  until  soft,  stirring  often  to  prevent  sticking  to  the 
sauce-pan.  Cork  tightly  in  wide  mouthed  bottles,  and  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 
A  good  meat  sauce. 

Bread  Sauce. — Dry  white  bread  or  rolls  thoroughly  in  the  oven,  but  do  not 
brown  them;  then  roll  on  the  moulding  board,  put  it  in  the  fine  colander,  and 
sift  through  the  finer  crumbs.  Put  the  fine  crumbs  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  for  each 
cup,  add  2  cups  stock  or  water,  a  slice  of  onion,  with  pepper  and  salt;  simmer  20 
minutes.  In  the  meantime  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  the  small 
frying-pan,  and  when  melted,  add  the  coarser  crumbs  of  bread;  stir  continually 
until  they  are  a  nice  golden  brown.  Take  the  onion  from  the  sauce,  add  the 
browned  bread  crumbs,  and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat.  This  sauce  can  be  made  with 
fresh  sweet  milk  instead  of  stock,  and  is  served  with  game. 

Brown  Sauce. — Fry  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter; 
let  this  brown,  but  not  burn,  and  then  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour;  stir 
thoroughly  and  then  add  (a  little  at  a  time)  1  cup  hot  stock,  stirring  rapidly 
until  it  is  smooth  and  thick.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  let  it  simmer 
5  minutes;  remove  the  onion  by  straining  the  sauce.  Xieave  out  the  onion  if  its 
flavor  is  not  liked.  Color  with  caramel.  This  will  serve  as  the  foundation  for 
many  sauces  by  using  various  flavoring  materials. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce.— Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  a  sauce-pan  and  melt 
it,  but  do  not  let  it  turn  brown;  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  mix  well; 
then  add  (a  little  at  a  time)  1  cup  of  hot  water,  or  white  stock  if  you  have  it, 
stirring  it  thoroughly.  When  smooth,  add  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  cut  in 
pieces  and  stir  it  in  thoroughly.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and  strain  it  if 
not  perfectly  smooth.  This  can  be  used  as  the  foundation  for  many  other  sauces. 
A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  can  be  added  by  those  who  want  it  acid, 
and  a  little  finely  cut  parsley  can  be  added  also  if  desired. 

Maitre  d'  Hotel  Butter. — Melt  a  teacup  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan;  stir  into  it 
a  tablespoon  of  corn-starch,  then  a  pint  of  hot  water;  stir  well  so  that  it  will  be 
smooth.  Add  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  saltspoon  of  cayenne;  salt  to  taste 
and  add  2  large  spoons  of  chopped  parsley.     It  is  served  with  meat  or  boiled  fish. 

Butter,  Montpelier. — Water-cress,  fresh  butter,  pepper,  or  cayenne  and  salt 
are  needed  for  this.  Pick  the  leaves  from  the  cress,  which  must  be  green  and 
fresh,  chop  them  finely,  dry  them  in  a  cloth  and  mince  again;  then  thoroughly 
mix  them  with  fresh  butter  until  it  is  of  a  bright  green,  seasoning  with  the 
pepper,  cayenne  and  salt.  This  is  used  as  an  appetizer,  for  spreading  croutons, 
or  to  make  a  garnish  for  savory  dishes. 


88  SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS. 

Horseradish  Butter. — Thoroughly  mix  equal  parts  of  horseradish  and  butter, 
pass  through  a  sieve  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Garlic  or  Tarragon  Butter  can  be  prepared  the  same  way,  regulating  the 
flavor  by  the  proportion  of  butter  used  to  the  other  ingredients. 

Nut  Butters.— -Peanuts,  hazel  nuts,  filberts  or  other  nuts  can  be  pounded, 
mixed  with  butter,  and  then  passed  through  a  sieve.  The  strength  can  be  regu- 
lated by  the  proportions  used.    They  are  delicious  and  easily  made. 

Scented  Butter. — Butter  can  be  worked  in  a  bowl  with  a  few  drops  of  the  es- 
sence of  any  scent  desired,  then  passed  through  a  sieve,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Caper  Saucee — Melt  a  cup  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of 
flour,  then  add  a  pint  of  hot  water,  stirring  rapidly  while  it  boils  and  thickens; 
add  a  little  salt  if  needed,  a  trifle  of  white  pepper,  and  about  a  gill  of  pickled 
capers.    Caper  sauce  is  served  with  boiled  fish,  boiled  mutton  and  lamb. 

Mock  Capers. — Pick  full  grown  seeds  of  nasturtiums,  but  which  have  not 

turned  yellow,  leaving  2  inches  of  the  stem  attached;  wash  them,  put  in  a  glass 

jar,  add  vinegar  enough  to  cover,  and  in  7  or  8  days  they  can  be  used. 

Capers  are  the  unopened  buds  of  a  low  trailing  shrub  growing  in  Asia  and  Africa,  and 
it  is  now  cultivated  in  Europe.  They  are  pickled  in  vinegar  and  salt  before  being  imported, 
and  are  used  to  flavor  sauces  and  vinegars.  They  have  a  pleasant  pungent  taste,  and  pos- 
sess both  stimulant  and  laxative  properties.  They  are  sometimes  colored  green  by  the  use 
of  copper  vessels,  producing  a  poisonous  adulteration.  This  can  be  detected  by  inserting  a 
polished  piece  of  steel  or  iron,  and  if  copper  is  present  it  will  coat  the  metal  in  a  short  time, 
the  same  as  described  for  pickles.    The  hyssop  of  Scripture  is  a  variety  of  caper. 

Cauliflower  Sauce. — Make  a  drawn  butter  sauce  with  part  cream  and  to  it 
add  boiled  cauliflower,  cut  into  small  dice.    Nice  for  fried  or  boiled  fowls. 

Celery  Sauce. — Take  6  sticks  of  celery  and  cut  the  white  part  into  pieces  % 
inch  long;  cook  them  in  salted  water  for  20  minutes,  pour  off  the  water  and  cover 
them  with  1  pint  of  milk;  boil  until  the  celery  is  tender — about  15  minutes;  add 
an  even  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  rub  the  flour 
smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Boil  2 
minutes  to  thicken. 

Chestnut  Sauce. — Take  2  cups  shelled  chestnuts,  and  blanch  them  by  putting 
them  for  3  minutes  into  boiling  water  and  then  taking  off  the  skin;  cook  till 
soft  in  salted  water,  and  then  mash  very  fine.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1 
tablespoon  of  flour  into  a  saucepan,  and  cook  till  brown";  add  it  to  the  chestnuts, 
stir  it  in  well,  cook  3  minutes,  and  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt.  Make  a 
gravy  of  the  drippings  of  the  poultry,  stir  in  the  chestnuts,  and  serve.  Good  for 
roast  turkey. 

CHUTNEE  SAUCE. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  15  sour  apples.  1  large  onion. 

2  cups  vinegar.  1  clove  of  garlic.         %  teacup  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
y2  tablespoon  ground  ginger.  M  teaspoon  mustard. 

Peel,  core  and  slice  the  apples,  and  stew  soft  in  just  enough  vinegar  to  cover 
them;  then  mash  finely.  Chop  the  onions  and  garlic  finely  and  add,  with  the  su- 
gar, raisins,  salt,  ginger  and  mustard;  scald  all  together  and  set  away  till  next 
day;  then  add  the  vinegar,  cold,  and  mix  all  together  thoroughly.  Bottle  and 
cork  tightly,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.     Good  for  meat  or  fish.     Splendid. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — To  serve  with  roasted  turkey:  A  pint  of  cranberries,  *4 
teacup  of  sugar,  and  %  teacup  of  water  is  about  the  right  proportion.  Stew  the 
cranberries  in  the  water  until  they  are  tender;  then  add  the  sugar. 

Cream  Sauce. — Heat  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  stir  in  2  table- 
spoons of  flour;  add  a  little  salt  and  a  little  white  pepper,  then  add  gradually  a 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS.  89 

pint  of  hot  cream.  Scald  the  cream  by  putting  it  in  a  pitcher;  set  the  pitcher  in 
a  tin  dish  or  kettle  of  hot  water,  and  set  on  the  hot  stove.  Cream  sauce  is  good 
to  serve  with  an  omelet,  or  any  kind  of  boiled  fish. 

Cucumber  Sauce. — Peel  and  chop  finely  2  or  3  cucumbers  (they  must  be  so  young 
that  the  seeds  are  small);  chop  one  small  onion  and  add  to  the  cucumbers. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne  and  vinegar;  this  is  better  liked  by  some  peo- 
ple than  the  navy  sauce.    • 

CURRANT  SAUCE. 

1  cup  of  soup-stock.  1  tumbler  of  currant  jelly.  Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon. 

1  teaspoon  of  salt.  1  mustardspoon  of  cloves  and  black  pepper. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  sauce-pan  with  the  above  ingredi- 
ents, and  let  them  come  to  the  boiling  point;  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  corn- 
starch wet  with  a  little  water;  stir  until  it  thickens,  then  send  to  the  table. 
Good  with  game  and  poultry. 

Curry  Sauce.  — Slice  thin  1  carrot,  2  onions,  1  head  of  celery  and  stew  in  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  with  1  tablespoon  of  water,  until  tender;  put  in  a  pinch  of 
mace,  a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  and  one  of  thyme  leaves;  add  1  pint  of  water 
and  a  bay-leaf;  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point;  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of 
flour,  strain  and  serve. 

Egg  Sauce.  —Take  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  chop  fine,  and  add  to  1  cup  of 
drawn  butter  sauce.     Good  for  fish. 

Fennel  Sauce. — Mix  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  cup  water  to  a  smooth  batter; 
put  into  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  season  with  salt,  and  keep  stir- 
ring one  way  until  all  are  melted;  add  1  tablespoon  of  fennel,  chopped  fine  and 
free  from  dirt,  simmer  for  1  or  2  minutes,  and  serve.  Excellent  for  oily  fish,  like 
salmon  or  mackerel. 

FISH  SAUCE. 

1  saltspoon  of  cayenne.  2  tablespoons  of  -walnut  catsup.  1  bruised  garlic. 

1  qt.  best  cider  vinegar.  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Mix  all  together.  Put  in  large  bottles,  after  standing  a  week,  stirring  every 
day;  cork  tightly.    Use  with  any  fish. 

Hollandaise  Sauce. — Rub  %  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
(one  at  a  time)  and  beat  well.  Stir  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  1  saltspoon  of 
salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  %  cup  of  boiling 
water;  place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  or  on  the  top  of  the  tea-kettle, 
and  scald  until  as  thick  as  custard,  stirring  all  the  time.  This  sauce  is  served 
with  fish  or  meat. 

Horseradish  Sauce. — Thoroughly  mix  4  tablespoons  of  grated  horseradish 
with  1  teaspoon  of  pounded  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  teaspoon  of  pepper  and 

2  teaspoons  made  mustard;  moisten  it  with  sufficient  vinegar  to  give  it  the  con- 
sistency of  cream;  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  cream  added  will  improve  its  appear- 
ance and  flavor.  To  heat  it  to  serve  with  hot  roast  beef,  put  in  a  bain  marie,  or 
put  it  in  a  cup  or  jar  and  place  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  make  it  hot,  but  do 
not  allow  it  to  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  This  is  a  great  improvement  on  the  old- 
fashioned  way  of  serving  cold,  scraped  horse-radish  with  hot  roast  beef.  Of 
course  with  cold  meat  the  sauce  should  be  served  cold. 

Horseradish  Sauce,  No.  2. — Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  15  minutes,  %  CUP 
cracker  crumbs,  %  cup  grated  horseradish,  and  2  cups  milk;  add  1  large  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Use  freshly  grated  horseradish 
and  rolled  cracker  crumbs.    This  is  very  appetizing. 


90  SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS. 

No.  3. — Take  2  cups  horseradish  grated  fine,  1  hard-boiled  egg  pulverized;  add 

sweet  cream,  and  a  little  butter;  salt  and  vinegar  to  taste. 

Horseradish  is  a  native  of  Europe  and  grows  readily  in  damp  ground.  It  should  never 
be  preserved  by  drying,  because  of  the  great  volatility  of  its  oil,  but  the  root  should  be 
kept  moist  by  burying  it  in  the  sand.  Its  volatile  oil  evaporates  so  rapidly  that  even 
when  scraped  for  the  table  it  almost  immediately  spoils  by  exposure  to  the  air.  It  stim- 
ulates the  appetite  and  aids  digestion,  but  is  most  unwholesome  when  taken  on  an  empty 
stomach. 

Lemon  Sauce. — For  a  boiled  fowl  take  the  chicken  liver  boiled  and  mashed 
fine;  add  the  juice  and  pulp  of  1  lemon  (without  the  seeds)  and  add  it  to  1  cup  of 
drawn  butter  sauce. 

Lobster  Sauce. — Take  the  meat  from  the  tail  and  claws  of  a  boiled  lobster, 
chop  it  into  dice  }£  inch  in  size.  Add  it  to  a  drawn  butter  sauce,  and  season 
with  cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Adding  a  teaspoon  of  lobster  butter 
will  make  it  a  bright  red.    Good  for  any  fish. 

Maud  ram  Sauce. — Take  cucumbers,  pare  them,  and  chop  in  small  pieces; 
take  half  the  quantity  of  young  onions  and  cut  them  fine;  add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  and  a  dessertspoon  of  vinegar.    This  is  very  good  with  any  roast  meat. 

Matelote  Sauce. — Peel  and  cut  finely  2  large  or  4  small  onions,  and  fry  them 
in  a  little  butter  until  they  are  a  rich  brown,  but  do  not  burn  them;  then  add 
about  half  a  teacup  of  butter.  When  it  is  all  melted,  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  flour, 
and  when  it  is  well  browned  in  the  butter,  add  half  a  pint  of  cold  water;  stir  well 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Season  with  ground  white  pepper,  a  little  nutmeg,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste;  rub  all  through  the  fine  colander  and  return  to 
the  sauce-pan  to  keep  hot  until  wanted.    Good  with  meats. 

Miss  Maitland's  Mayonnaise. — Take  the  raw  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of 
salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  a  mustardspoon  of  made  mus- 
tard, %  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  %  pint  of  olive  oil.  After  all  is  thoroughly 
blended,  add  2  tablespoons  of  tarragon  vinegar.     Good  with  fish. 

Milk  Sauce  {Plain). — Melt  %  cup  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan;  stir  in  2  table- 
spoons of  flour;  then  pour  in  and  stir  rapidly  1  pint  of  scalded  milk;  season  with 
salt  and  white  pepper. 

Mint  Sauce. — Take  2  tablespoons  sugar,  3^  cup  of  finely  cut  mint,  %  cup  vin- 
egar; mix  and  let  stand  1  or  2  hours  before  serving,  to  well  season  the  vinegar 
with  the  mint.  Use  the  leaves  and  tender  tips  only;  wash  them  in  slightly 
salted  water;  then  shake  off  the  water,  gather  tightly  in  the  hand,  and  cut  finely 
with  the  scissors. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  sauce-pan 
with  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  sifted  flour.  Soften  the  butter  and  mix  thoroughly 
with  the  flour;  then  add  1  pint  of  hot  stock,  broth,  or  hot  water;  boil  up,  and  add 
4  teaspoons  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon;  beat  an  egg  thor- 
oughly and  stir  into  the  sauce;  remove  immediately  from  the  fire  to  prevent 
curdling.    This  sauce  is  served  with  poultry  and  game. 

Mustard  Sauce. — To  1  cup  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper 
and  3  teaspoons  of  prepared  mustard. 

Prepared  Mustard. — Take  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard  and  add 
1  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  %  teaspoon  of  salt;  wet  it  with  good  vinegar  and  stir  it 
to  a  smooth  paste;  then  add  more  vinegar  and  cook  it  until  it  thickens  like 
paste,  adding  more  vinegar  until  of  the  consistency  required. 

No.  2. — Put  3  large  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard  into  a  bowl,  and  pour  on 
enough  warm  water  to  make  a  stiff  paste;  rub  smooth,  add  }£  cup  vinegar,  a 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS.  91 

pinch  of  salt,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  set  the  mixture  in  boiling  water, 
and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens;  then  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  con- 
tinue the  stirring  until  it  is  dissolved.    Splendid. 

French  Mustard. — Use  4  tablespoons  of  the  best  English  mustard,  2  teaspoons 
of  salad  oil,  2  teaspoons  of  white  sugar,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  white 
pepper,  1  small  garlic  minced  very  fine,  and  tarragon  vinegar  to  mix  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Put  the  mustard  into  a  bowl  and  add  the  oil,  rubbing  it  in  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  it  is  all  absorbed.  Wet  with  the  vinegar  until  you  have  a  stiff  paste; 
add  the  salt,  pepper,  garlic  and  sugar,  and  work  all  together  thoroughly,  wetting 
little  by  little  with  the  vinegar  until  you  can  beat  it  as  you  do  cake  batter. 
Beat  5  minutes  very  hard;  put  into  wide  mouthed  bottles — empty  French 
mustard  bottles  are  the  thing,  if  you  happen  to  have  them — pour  a  little  oil  on 
the  top,  cork  tightly  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  It  will  be  well  mixed  and 
ready  for  use  in  2  days. 

French  Mustard,  No.  2. — Take  2  tablespoons  mustard,  pour  on  it  just  enough 
boiling  hot  water  to  make  a  paste;,  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1  of  sugar, 
and  add  a  few  drops  of  salad  oil  if  you  have  it,  a  little  butter,  then  a  tablespoon 
of  vinegar. 

German  Mustard. — Take  8  tablespoons  of  mustard,  4  tablespoons  white  sugar, 
4  tablespoons  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  and 
juice  of  1  large  raw  onion;  mix  all  well  together,  and  moisten  with  a  little 
vinegar. 

The  flour  of  mustard  in  common  use  is  ground  from  the  seed  of  black  mustard  (Sinapis 
nigra).  It  possesses  an  agreeable  pungency,  and  is  the  best  stimulant  employed  to  impart 
strength  to  the  digestive  organs.  In  its  present  form  it  has  only  been  in  use  about  150 
years,  although  it  was  used  long  before  in  a  coarsely  powdered  state.  Mixed  with  hot 
water,  it  is  a  strong  emetic.  In  moderate  quantities,  both  mustard  and  red  pepper  are 
useful  with  indigestible  foods,  like  lobster,  etc.,  as  they  are  stimulant  and  aid  in  the 
digestion.  Mustard  is  best  mixed  with  cold  water,  as  hot  water  impairs  its  essential 
properties.    It  is  well  to  prepare  it  in  small  quantities,  as  it  is  better  when  freshly  made. 

Condiments.— These  are  used  to  give  a  relish  to  food  and  gratify  the  taste.  The 
principal  condiments  are  salt,  vinegar,  oil,  butter,  herbs,  spices,  ginger,  pepper  and 
mustard.  Some  of  these,  like  mustard,  are  food  and  condiment  combined.  When  taken 
in  moderation  they  are  conducive  to  health,  but  used  to  excess,  they  are  highly  injurious. 
Nutmeg  is  injurious  to  many  people,  causing  what  is  called  heart-burn. 

Navy  Sauce. — Chop  finely  2  or  3  large  onions,  and  season  highly  with  salt, 
pepper  and  vinegar.  This  is  fine  for  those  who  like  raw  onions,  and  is  served 
with  oysters  raw  or  cooked. 

Nut  Sauce. — This  is  made  by  pounding  to  a  paste,  in  a  mortar,  the  meats  of 
any  kind  of  wild  nuts  (hazel  nuts,  hickory  nuts,  butter-nuts,  etc.)  and  mixing  the 
paste  with  an  equal  amount  of  nice  butter.    It  is  served  with  game,  or  poultry. 

Olive  Sauce. — Extract  the  salt  from  1  doz.  olives  by  soaking  them  3^  hour  in 
warm  water;  then  pare  them  close  to  the  stone,  round  and  round,  as  you  would  an 
apple,  to  remove  the  stone.  Then  put  the  olive  into  %  pint  of  brown  sauce,  sim- 
mer 10  to  15  minutes,  and  serve.    Good  with  roast  duck  or  other  game. 

Onion  Sauce. — Take  3  good  sized  onions,  boil  them  till  soft,  pulp  through  a 
sieve,  and  mix  it  into  1  cup  white  sauce.    Good  with  mutton  or  lamb  chop. 

Oyster  Sauce. — Blanch  small  oysters,  drain,  and  dry  in  a  towel,  and  add  them 
to  drawn  butter  sauce;  put  in  a  very  little  lemon  juice  or  tarragon  vinegar,  let  it 
come  to  the  boiling  point,  and  serve.    It  goes  with  fish,  boiled  turkey  or  chicken. 

Parsley  Sauce. — Take  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  parsley,  and  add  it  to  1  cup  of 
hot  drawn  butter  sauce.  Color  with  spinach  green  if  you  have  it,  as  that  will 
improve  the  appearance. 

Pickle  Sauce. — Take  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped  cucumber  pickles, 
and  add  them  to  a  drawn  butter  sauce. 


02  SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS. 

Sauce  Piquante. — Add  1  tablespoon  each  of  chopped  cucumber  pickles,  capers 
and  vinegar,  to  1  cup  of  brown  sauce. 

Potato  Sauce. — Grate  3  or  4  large  potatoes,  wash  out  the  starch,  and  dry  a 
little  in  a  napkin;  chop  a  small  onion  and  mix  with  the  raw  potato.  Season 
highly  with  salt,  cayenne  and  vinegar.     Good  with  raw  or  cooked  oysters. 

Pepper  Sauce. — Break  in  pieGes  6  pods  of  red  pepper,  3  dozen  black  pepper- 
corns broken  in  a  mortar,  2  tablespoons  of  white  sugar,  and  1  quart  of  best  vin- 
egar. Scald  the  vinegar  in  which  the  sugar  has  been  dissolved,  pour  it  over  the 
peppers,  put  in  a  jar,  and  steep  ka  fortnight;  strain  and  bottle.  This  is  served 
with  raw  oysters,  or  fish,  and  is  a  fine  addition  to  various  salads. 

Raisin  Sauce. — Cut  in  two  and  remove  the  seeds  from  1  lb.  of  large,  choice 
raisins;  put  over  the  fire  in  a  pint  of  hot  water  and  stew  slowly  until  tender;  then 
add  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  %  pint  of  good  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  mixed  ground  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Boil  all  together  10  minutes,  and 
cork  well  in  wide  mouthed  bottles.    An  excellent  sauce  for  any  cold  meats. 

Sauce  Robert. — Cut  finely  3  large  onions,  and  fry  in  a  piece  of  butter  as  large 
as  an  egg;  caramel  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  add  to  it  ~%  a  pint  of  water,  and  2 
tablespoons  of  good  cider  or  wine  vinegar;  add  salt,  ground  white  pepper,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  dry  mustard,  and  a  pinch  of  pulverized  sage.  Boil  well  together  and  add 
a  teaspoon  of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  This  is  good  with  most 
kinds  of  meat,  game,  or  fish. 

Shrimp  Sauce. — Take  %  of  a  cup  of  chopped,  picked,  boiled  shrimps,  and  add 
it  to  1  cup  drawn  butter  sauce;  let  it  merely  simmer,  without  boiling,  and  add  a 
pinch  of  cayenne,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  the  last  thing. 

Sauce  Supreme. — Chop  3  mushrooms  finely,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  mix  it  into  2  cups  bechamel  sauce,  let  all  simmer  10 
minutes,  rub  through  a  strainer,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Tartar  Sauce. — Take  2  tablespoons  each  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  vinegar, 
1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  2  saltspoons  of  salt;  put  them  into  a  bowl  and 
set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  heat.  Put  %  cup  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  brown  it, 
strain,  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients.     Serve  it  hot  with  boiled  fish. 

Sauce  Tartare.  — Put  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  add  %,  teaspoon 
salt  and  1  teaspoon  mustard;  then  add  alternately  1  teaspoon  each  of  olive  oil 
and  tarragon  vinegar  (adding  them  very  gradually)  until  it  is  of  the  right  con- 
sistency. Then  add  2  chopped  shallots,  or  instead  2  tablespoons  chopped  pickled 
onions  and  gherkins.  This  sauce  is  often  made  too  acid.  It  goes  well  with  fried 
oysters  or  fish,  or  with  boiled  tongue  or  codfish. 

Tomato  Sauce. — To  6  tomatoes  add  2  cloves,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley; 
stew  30  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  sieve;  into  a  saucepan  put  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  set  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  bubbles  well,  add  1  large  tablespoon  flour; 
when  well  cooked  (keeping  it  stirred  and  mixed  well)  add  the  strained  tomato; 
stir  until  smooth,  and  serve.    This  can  also  be  made  with  canned  tomatoes. 

Sauce  Yeloute\ — Heat  in  melted  butter  1  pound  of  veal,  cut  finely,  and  any 
bits  of  fowl  you  may  have,  together  with  12  good-sized  mushrooms;  do  not  let 
them  brown;  then  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  two  carrots  and  onions  cut 
finely,  a  large  tablespoon  of  flour,  salt,  pepper,  a  little  mixed  spice  and  as  much 
veal  gravy  as  will  cover  them.  Let  it  boil  up,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  let  it  simmer 
for  an  hour  and  a  half;  strain,  and  keep  it  covered  for  use. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS.  93 

WORCESTERSHIRE  SAUCE. 

1  oz.  of  cayenne.  1  oz.  black  pepper.  6  cloves  of  garlic  (minced). 
6  anchovies  (mashed).               1  grated  nutmeg.  1  oz.  cloves  (pulverized). 

2  qts.  vinegar.  1  oz.  of  salt. 

Mix  all  together  and  let  it  stand  in  a  jug  for  2  weeks;  then  strain  and  bottle  for 
use.    It  must  be  tightly  corked  and  kept  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

WORCESTERSHIRE  SAUCE,  NO.  2. 

3  teaspoons  cayenne.  3  teaspoons  walnut  catsup.  3  onions,  chopped  fine. 

3  anchovies,  chopped  fine.  1  mustardspoon  of  powdered  1  qt.  of  good  cider  or  wine 

cloves.  vinegar. 

Put  all  together  in  a  stone  jar  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  water  to  become  scalding 

hot;  then  let  it  stand  in  the  jar  closely  covered  2  days;  bottle  after  straining, 

and  cork  tightly. 

Walnut  Sauce. — A  half  peck  of  walnuts  young  enough  to  crush  easily — they 

can  be  rolled  on  a  board  or  crushed  in  a  mortar.    Add  2  quarts  of  vinegar  and  a 

gill  of  salt.    Stir  and  mash  together  for  a  week;  then  boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle, 

adding  a  heaping   teaspoon  of    ground  black  pepper;  the   same    of  cloves,  1 

grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  1  teaspoon  of  ground  ginger. 

Boil  all  to  a  paste;  if  too  thick  to  run  from  a  bottle,  add  more  vinegar  to  thin  it. 

Keep  corked  tightly  in  a  dark  closet.    Some  cooks  do  not  mash  while  cooking, 

but  strain  off  the  juice  to  bottle.     Good  with  meats. 

CURRY  POWDER.    (Kitchener's.) 

3  oz.  coriander  seed.  3  oz.  turmeric.  2  oz.  cassia  buds. 

1  oz.  cayenne.  1  oz.  mustard,  ground.  1  oz.  ground  ginger. 

1  oz.  allspice.  54  oz.  fenugreek  seed. 

Pulverize  all  together;  bottle  tight,  and  keep  in  a  dark  closet.  Good  for  meats. 

CURRY  POWDER.    (White's.) 

*A  lb.  turmeric.  4  oz.  cumin  seed.  8  oz.  coriander  seed. 

4  oz.  black  pepper.  2  oz.  ground  ginger.  2  oz.  cayenne. 
Y%  oz.  caraway  seed.                  XA  oz.  cardamon  seed. 

Pulverize  and  bottle  as  above. 

Herb  Powder  for  Flavoring.— Dry  in  a  moderate  oven  very  carefully  2  oz.  each 
of  thyme,  winter  savory,  parsley,  sweet  marjoram  and  lemon  peel;  then  pound  the 
lemon  peel  in  a  mortar  separately  with  %  oz.  celery  seed;  then  pound  the  herbs, 
mix  all,  pass  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  keep  closely  corked  in  a  bottle.  To  use, 
add  to  each  2  pints  of  soup  1  teaspoon  of  the  powder. 

Ragout  Powder. — Take  1  oz.  of  lemon  peel,  dried  and  grated,  1  oz.  each  of 
black  pepper  and  mustard,  %  oz.  each  of  nutmeg,  ginger,  mace  and  cloves,  all 
ground  fine;  1  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  and  4  tablespoons  of  salt.  Thoroughly 
mix  the  ingredients  together,  pass  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  keep  in  closely 
corked  bottle.  Ragout  or  sauce  is  much  improved  by  adding  a  teaspoon  of  the 
powder. 

Sassafras  Powder. — Select  sassafras  leaves  which  are  very  young  and  tender, 
and  dry  them  in  a  cool,  airy  place,  spread  out  on  white  paper;  then  pound  in  a 
mortar  till  fine,  pass  through  a  hair  sieve;  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  They  are 
used  in  gumbo  and  other  soups,  and  in  sauces. 

Flavored  Vinegars. — These  are  a  great  addition  to  many  dishes,  like  fish, 
sauces,  salads,  meats,  etc.       Keep  them  well  corked,  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Cayenne  Vinegar. — Put  into  a  glass  bottle  2  cups  vinegar  and  1  tablespoon  of 
cayenne  pepper,  let  stand  4  weeks,  strain,  and  bottle  for  use.  It  is  useful  for 
gargling  sore  throats,  as  well  as  for  seasoning  soups  and  sauces;  but  very  little  is 
needed  at  a  time. 


94  SAUCES  FOR  FISH,  SHELL-FISH  AND  MEATS. 

Celery  Vinegar. — Put  into  a  jar  2  pints  celery,  chopped  fine;  bring  to  a  boil 
and  pour  on  hot  2  pints  good  cider  vinegar,  and  1  tablespoon  each  of  sugar  and 
salt;  let  it  cool,  cover  and  let  it  stand  a  fortnight;  strain  and  bottle. 

Chili  Vinegar. — Cut  finely  a  quart  of  chili  peppers,  or  any  kind  of  ripe  red 
peppers.  Add  a  quart  of  vinegar  and  a  tablespoon  of  salt;  let  it  stand  for  a  week, 
stirring  daily;  then  strain  and  bottle  for  use. 

Cucumber  Vinegar. — Pare,,  slice,  and  put  into  a  stone  jar,  10  large  or  12  small 
cucumbers;  add  2  onions  sliced,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  pepper,  % 
teaspoon  cayenne  and  1  quart  vinegar;  let  it  stand  1  week,  boil  it  up  once,  and 
when  cold,  strain  through  muslin,  bottle  and  seal.  Excellent  for  gravies,  hashes, 
salads  and  cold  meats. 

Elder-flower  Vinegar. — Into  1  quart  of  good  strong  vinegar  put  1  pint 
elder  flowers  free  from  the  stalks;  let  stand  2  weeks  in  the  sun  or  in  a  warm 
place;  strain  through  flannel,  and  put  up  in  quite  small  bottles.  It  can  also  be 
made  by  infusing  the  leaves,  either  fresh  or  dried,  in  the  same  way,  the  fresh 
being  the  best.    The  vinegar  is  used  both  in  cookery  and  perfumery. 

Garlic  Vinegar. — Into  1  quart  of  cold  boiled  vinegar  put  2  oz.  of  finely 
chopped  garlic;  let  stand  2  weeks,  strain,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Shallot  vinegar  can  be  made  the  same  way. 

Cress  vinegar  can  be  made  by  bruising  in  a  mortar  %  oz.  cress  seed,  and 
letting  it  stand  2  weeks  in  1  quart  of  cold,  boiled  vinegar. 

Horseradish  Vinegar. — Put  into  a  bottle  1  quart  vinegar,  }£  lb.  scraped 
horseradish,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  andl  teaspoon  sugar;  let  stand  2  weeks,  shaking 
daily;  then  strain  and  bottle.    An  excellent  relish  for  cold  beef,  etc. 

Lemon  Vinegar. — Put  the  vinegar  in  a  glass  bottle  and  add  lemon  peel;  the 
rind  of  1  lemon  will  flavor  a  pint  of  vinegar;  let  stand  2  weeks,  then  strain  and 
bottle.    Make  Orange  Vinegar  the  same  way. 

Mint  Vinegar. — Pick  nice  fresh  mint  from  the  stalks,  fill  a  bottle  or  jar  loosely 
with  them,  and  then  fill  it  full  with  vinegar;  cover  closely  to  exclude  the  air,  and 
let  stand  3  weeks;  then  strain,  put  into  small  bottles,  and  cork  tightly.  Excel- 
lent for  roast  meats,  cold  meats,  soups,  etc. 

Parsley  vinegar  can  be  prepared  the  same  way,  the  principle  being  merely  to 
let  the  herb  soak  in  the  vinegar  until  its  flavor  is  extracted. 

Onion  Vinegar. — Mince  6  large  onions  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  letting 
them  stand  for  5  or  6  hours.  Take  1  quart  of  vinegar  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar 
and  pour  over  the  onions;  put  in  a  jar,  tie  down  the  cover  and  let  steep  for  a 
fortnight;  then  strain  and  bottle.  This  gives  an  onion  flavor  to  meat  sauces  and 
gravies,  when  liked,  without  the  trouble  of  cooking  onions  for  each  dinner. 

Tarragon  Vinegar. — Take  a  handful  of  tarragon  leaves  just  before  the  plant 
begins  to  bloom,  and  cover  them  with  the  best  cider  or  wine  vinegar  (a  quart 
is  as  much  as  would  be  needed  for  a  year  in  a  small  family);  let  the  leaves  steep 
in  the  vinegar  for  a  week,  turning  them  every  day;  then  strain,  and  bottle 
tightly.    This  is  good  in  sauces  for  boiled  fish  or  poultry. 

Other  Flavored  Vinegars. — Black  Pepper  Vinegar,  Caper  Vinegar,  Capsicum 
Vinegar,  Ginger  Vinegar,  Red  Rose  Vinegar,  Curry  Vinegar,  Truffle  Vinegar, 
White  Pepper  Vinegar  and  several  others  can  be  made  by  steeping  about  1  oz.  of 
the  article  in  1  pint  of  good  vinegar  for  2  weeks,  to  extract  its  flavor;  then  strain 
and  bottle.  Celery  seed  vinegar  is  made  the  same  way,  but  first  crush  the  seeds. 
Using  a  little  more  of  any  article  increases  the  strength. 


MEATS. 

THE  PROCESSES  AND  PRINCIPLES  OF  COOKING. 

"  To  be  a  good  cook  means  the  economy  of  our  great-grandmothers,  and  the  science  of 
the  modern  chemist." — Buskin. 

Before  taking  up  the  subject  of  cooking  meats,  etc.,  it  may  be  of  both  interest 
and  profit  to  our  readers  to  explain  some  of  the  fundamental  principles  which 
underlie  the  processes  of  cookery.  It  is  a  lamentable  fact  that  of  the  great  mul- 
titude of  people  who  daily  prepare  food  for  human  consumption,  very  many  have 
no  idea  of  the  principles  involved.  And  yet  these  principles  are  quite  simple, 
and  can  be  easily  comprehended,  and  if  they  were  well  understood,  immense 
amounts  of  food  might  be  saved  which  are  now  spoiled  in  the  cooking  and  thus 
rendered  both  unpalatable  and  indigestible. 

Broiling  or  Grilling. — This  is  an  excellent  mode  of  cooking  tender,  juicy 
meats,  but  is  not  suited  to  the  coarser  pieces  of  meat,  neither  is  it  an  economical 
way  of  cooking,  for  it  requires  a  bright,  clear,  coal  fire,  or  fire  of  wood  coals,  and 
the  juices  and  fat  are,  to  a  certain  extent,  wasted  in  the  process.  To  broil  suc- 
cessfully, the  meat  must  be  placed  on  a  gridiron  or  broiler,  put  over  the  fire,  and 
suddenly  heated  to  crust  the  outside  and  keep  in  the  juices  as  much  as  possible. 
Now  let  us  examine  the  process  a  little.  The  elements  in  the  meat  with  which 
we  have  to  deal  in  attempting  to  cook  it,  are  fibrin,  albumen,  gelatine,  soluble  salts 
and  fat.  Fibrin  (i.  e.,  fibres  or  muscles)  swells  and  softens  when  subjected  to 
moderate  heat,  but  is  hardened  and  contracted  by  intense  heat.  Albumen  is 
another  ingredient  of  meat.  The  most  familiar  instance  of  albumen  is  found  in 
the  white  of  an  egg  which  is  little  else  than  albumen  and  water;  the  yolk  con- 
tains albumen  and  water,  with  the  addition  of  some  oil  and  sulphur,  and  its 
albumen  is  of  a  rather  different  character  and  is  called  "vitellin."  Any  albumen 
is  soluble  in  cold  or  warm  water;  it  begins  to  coagulate  at  145°,  sets  into  a  jelly 
at  160°,  and  becomes  a  tough,  opaque  mass  at  212°,  and  then,  with  continued  heat, 
gets  hard  and  tenacious. 

Now  the  fibres  of  meat  are  surrounded  by  a.  liquid  which  consists  of  water 
holding  in  solution  albumen,  just  as  it  exists  in  an  unboiled  egg,  and  it  also 
holds  in  solution  many  soluble  salts,  etc.,  which  are  of  the  highest  possible  value 
as  articles  of  food.  In  preparing  meat  for  the  table,  great  care  should  be  taken 
to  prevent  the  escape  of  this  precious  juice,  as  the  succulence  and  value  of  the 
meat  largely  depend  on  its  retention.  The  best  way  to  retain  these  juices  is  to 
coagulate  the  albumen  on  and  near  the  surface  of  the  meat.  When  quickly 
heated,  this  surface  albumen  coagulates  and  forms  a  thin  film  or  crust,  which  is 
nearly  impervious  to  water,  and  which  keeps  the  juices  inside  the  meat.  When 
heated  only  moderately,  on  the  other  hand,  no  such  crust  is  formed,  the  heat 
draws  out  the  juices,  and  its  tendency  to  do  so  is  not  counteracted  by  any  surface 
crust  at  all.  It  will  be  evident,  also,  that  the  meat  should  be  turned  often  in 
order  that  the  crust  may  be  formed  all  over  its  surface,  and  not  merely  on  one 
side;  but  do  not  let  the  meat  scorch.  Now,  when  the  .meat  is  quickly  heated,  a 
surface  crust  formed,  and  the  juices  imprisoned,  the  heat  will  generate  steam 
from  them  which  will  cause  the  fibrin  (muscular  fibres)  to  swell  and  soften,  and 
the  meat  will  be  rather  puffy.  The  broiling  should  continue  just  long  enough  to 
start  the  juices  and  loosen  the  fibres,  but  if  continued  too  long,  the  juice  will 
gradually  ooze  through  the  outside  crust  and  evaporate,  while  the  albumen  will 
harden  clear  through  the  meat,  which  will  then  become  tough  and  indigestible. 
Never  stick  a  fork  or  anything  else  into  meat  to  see  if  it  is  done,  as  that  will  ruin 
it  by  letting  out  the  juice,  this  letting  out  the  juice  being  the  very  thing  the 
intelligent  cook  seeks  by  all  means  to  prevent.  If  the  article  is  dipped  in  melted 
fat  before  putting  it  on  the  gridiron,  it  will  help  set  the  surface  albumen  quickly. 


96  MEATS. 

If  it  is  very  lean,  or  there  is  but  little  fat,  it  is  well  to  draw  it  through  a  little 
melted  butter  or  oil  on  a  plate.  For  fish,  it  would  be  well  to  always  do  this,  and 
the  fish  (not  meat)  may  be  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper  before  being  dipped  in 
the  oil.    Fish  is  also  floured  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the  gridiron. 

When  the  meat  is  browned  all  over,  and  ceases  to  feel  spongy,  it  is  done.  A 
little  experience  will  show  just  the  right  time  to  stop  the  broiling;  then  allow  it 
to  rest  for  one  minute  on  a  very  hot  plate,  and  serve.  Do  not  put  any  salt  on  the 
meat  while  it  is  cooking;  the  seasoning  should  be  put  on  the  meat  after  it  is  put 
on  the  hot  platter.  Remember,  therefore,  that  the  rules  for  broiling  are  always 
the  same,  viz.:  a  hot  fire  at  first  with  a  hot  gridiron  well  greased,  frequent 
turning,  no  holes  made  to  see  if  the  meat  is  done  and  so  let  out  the  juices.  Also 
remember,  that  the  smaller  the  article,  the  hotter  the  fire  necessary,  and  that  for 
larger  ones  a  more  moderate  fire  is  needed,  or  hold  it  further  away  from  the  fire. 

Baking  and  Roasting. — These  often  do  duty  for  one  another,  as  the  old 
method  of  roasting  meat  by  hanging  it  in  front  of  an  open  fire,  is  very  little 
practiced  now.  Roasting  proper  is  a  wasteful  method,  as  by  it,  meat  usually 
shrinks  from  %  to  %  in  weight,  but  the  taste  is  agreeable  to  most  persons,  and  it 
is  considered  digestible.  The  first  object  is  to  harden  the  surface  albumen,  and 
so  imprison  the  juices  of  the  meat  the  same  as  in  broiling.  To  do  this,  the  fire 
and  utensils  must  be  very  hot  at  first,  and  the  heat  can  afterwards  be  lessened 
by  cooling  the  oven.  The  smaller  the  joint,  the  higher  the  temperature  to  which 
it  should  be  exposed,  while  the  larger  the  joint,  the  smaller  the  fire,  lest  it  should 
be  burnt  outside  before  it  is  cooked  enough  inside;  but  it  should  be  hot  at  first 
and  cooler  afterwards.  If  the  oven  is  only  warm  at  first,  the  surface  albumen 
will  not  be  coagulated,  the  juices  will  escape,  and  the  damage  cannot  afterwards 
be  repaired.  In  a  perfectly  roasted  joint  the  outside  albumen  should  be  thor- 
oughly hardened,  but  inside,  the  heat  should  only  reach  the  stage  which  swells 
and  softens  the  fibrin.  If  cooked  more  than  this,  the  fibre  becomes  tough  and 
separates  into  bundles  which  resist  the  teeth  and  digestive  organs. 

Basting. — It  is  very  important  that  the  meat  should  be  frequently  basted — 
say  every  10  to  20  minutes — and  do  it  quickly,  so  as  not  to  keep  the  oven  door 
open  longer  than  necessary.  The  drippings  from  the  meat  are  the  best  thing 
with  which  to  baste  it;  some  cooks  add  some  beef  drippings.  Owing  to  the  heat 
of  the  oven,  the  outside  surface  soon  becomes  dry,  and  basting  the  meat  covers  it 
over  with  a  thin  film  of  fat  which  assists  in  imparting  heat,  while  it  checks  the 
evaporation  of  the  juices.  Water  is  sometimes  put  in  the  dripping-pan  to  baste 
with,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  the  water  cannot  be  heated  above  212°, 
while  280°  or  more  is  needed  for  proper  baking;  so  that  water  should  not  be  put 
in  the  pan  at  first.  Use  beef  drippings  or  fat  from  the  meat  itself  at  first,  and  add 
a  little  water  later,  if  it  is  used.  If  a  frothed  surface  is  desired,  flour  may  be 
dredged  upon  it  every  time  it  is  basted.  When  you  baste  it,  look  at  the  joint 
and  see  if  one  side  is  more  brown  than  the  other;  if  so,  turn  it  around;  also,  it  is 
well  very  often  to  turn  it  over.  All  game  and  poultry  requires  a  hot,  clear  fire, 
frequent  basting,  and  should  be  sent  to  the  table  direct  from  roasting.  It  should 
not  be  finished  long  before  it  is  wanted,  and  then  "kept  hot." 

A  basin  of  water  in  the  oven  will  produce  steam  which  will  check  the  ten- 
dency to  scorch  and  dry  the  meat.  Hot,  dry  air  is  thirsty  for  water  and  will 
absorb  it  eagerly  from  any  moist  substance  with  which  it  comer  in  contact;  but 
if  the  air  is  kept  moist  by  keeping  a  pan  of  water  in  the  oven,  the  tendency  is 
overcome;  water  in  the  dripping-pan  does  the  same  thing.  This,  however, 
should  not  be  relied  on  as  a  substitute  for  having  the  oven  hot  at  first  and  cooler 
afterwards.  Do  not  put  in  the  water  until  after  the  strong  heat  at  first  has  set 
the  surface  albumen  of  the  meat.  It  is  better  not  to  use  water  with  meat  which 
is  desired  rare,  or  with  small  cuts,  but  only  for  large  roasts  which  require  long, 
slow  cooking. 

Boiling. — This  is  the  most  common  method  of  cooking  food.  To  boil  prop- 
erly is  quite  an  art,  and  the  principles  underlying  the  process  are  as  follows: 
Water  boils  at  212°  F.  in  most  places,  but  at  high  altitudes  it  boils  at  a  lower 
temperature  than  that,  because  the  air  is  lighter,  and  the  pressure  on  top  of  the 
water  being  less,  it  more  easily  rises  into  vapor.  People  who  move  to  a  high  alti- 
tude often  notice  that  while  the  water  is  boiling,  the  food  which  they  have  in  it 
does  not  seem  to  cook  as  rapidly  as  it  did  in  a  lower  altitude,  and  this  is  the 


MEATS.  97 

reason — the  water  boils  at  a  lower  temperature,  and  therefore  is  not  so  hot.  Wa- 
ter in  a  vacuum,  relieved  of  the  pressure  of  the  air,  will  boil  at  about  100°;  6500 
feet  above  sea  level  it  will  boil  at  about  200°;  at  9000  feet  it  boils  at  about  194°, 
and  so  on.  Down  in  a  mine,  on  the  other  hand,  water  boils  at  a  higher  tempera- 
ture than  212°,  because  the  pressure  of  air  on  top  is  greater.  Salt  water  boils 
at  a  higher  temperature  than  fresh  water,  its  boiling  point  being  about  224°  or 
less,  according  to  its  saltness.  No  one  can  make  the  temperature  of  water  hotter 
than  212°  while  it  remains  in  an  open  kettle,  and  remember  that  it  is  equally  hot 
whether  it  boils  fast  or  slow.  The  water  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  is  turned  to 
vapor  by  contact  with  the  hot  metal,  and  it  rises  toward  the  surface;  the  bubbles 
are  condensed  by  the  colder  water  towards  the  top,  if  the  water  only  simmers, 
but  in  boiling  water  the  bubbles  of  vapor  rise  to  the  surface,  burst,  and  escape 
in  the  form  of  steam.  It  is  these  bubbles  of  rising  vapor  which  cause  the  "bub- 
bling" of  the  water.  The  active  bubbling  which  takes  place  in  violent  boiling 
may  sometimes  be  of  service  in  cooking,  although  it  is  more  often  objectionable. 
When  water  boils  violently  it  is  a  great  waste  of  fuel;  and  many  of  the  more 
volatile  and  savory  particles  of  food  are  carried  away  in  the  steam,  leaving  the 
remainder  less  nourishing  and  palatable.  Violent  boiling,  therefore,  is  not  de- 
sirable in  cooking.  JSow  when  meat  is  boiled  to  be  eaten,  what  we  want  is  to 
have  the  meat  tender,  and  have  it  retain  its  flavor  and  juices  as  much  as  possible. 
For  this  reason,  meat  should  be  plunged  at  first  into  boiling  water,  and  that  will 
coagulate  the  albumen  on  the  surface,  as  explained  about  broiling;  the  thin  film 
of  albumen  thus  formed  at  the  surface  of  the  meat,  may  not  be  thicker  than 
cotton  cloth,  but  it  is  nearly  impervious  to  water,  and  it  will  serve  to  hold  the 
juices  inside  the  meat.  When  that  film  is  once  formed,  the  boiling  should  be 
checked,  for  it  is  as  undesirable  to  toughen  the  albumen  clear  through  the  meat, 
as  it  is  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  juices.  After  plunging  the  meat  into 
the  boiling  water,  therefore,  check  the  boiling  and  let  it  merely  simmer, 
until  it  is  gradually  heated  through  to  the  center  sufficiently  to  cook  it,  but 
not  enough  to  harden  the  albumen.  While  the  temperature  of  boiling  water  is 
212°,  that  of  simmering  water  should  be  about  160°  to  180°.  Cooked  in  this  way, 
however,  meat  should  be  cooked  longer  than  by  the  old  method  of  rapid  boiling. 

The  common  way  among  many  who  do  not  understand  the  principles  involved 
in  cooking,  is  to  pUt  the  meat  in  cold  water  first,  and  then  bring  it  to  a  boil  after- 
wards;  but  this  is  the  worst  possible  way,  for  it  leaves  the  meat  dry  and  flavor- 
less, because,  there  being  no  barrier  or  crust  on  the  surface  to  hold  in  the  juices, 
they  are  dissolved  and  drawn  out  of  the  meat  by  the  water.  When  meat  is 
boiled  for  soup,  however,  the  very  object  aimed  at  is  to  extract  all  the  juices, 
albumen  and  gelatine  possible,  and  for  that  purpose  it  should  be  cut  into  small 
pieces,  to  multiply  surfaces,  put  into  cold  water  at  first,  heated  slowly,  and  al- 
lowed to  simmer,  as  that  method  will  draw  out  the  juices  and  nutriment  of  the 
meat.  It  is  well  for  cooks  to  understand  the  results  of  these  different  processes, 
and  then  they  can  intelligently  select  either  method  according  to  the  object  they 
have  in  view. 

If  there  are  any  exceptions  to  the  above  principles  for  boiling  meat,  they  are 
in  the  case  of  sinewy  and  tendonous  meat  when  gelatine  is  abundant,  for  to  make 
gelatine  soft  and  eatable,  long  continued  boiling  is  necessary.  Thus  calf's  head 
and  feet,  shins  of  beef,  knuckles  of  veal,  cow  heel,  tripe,  etc.,  are  usually  best  put 
into  cold  water  first,  and  boiled  longer  than  other  meat. 

A  good  practical  method  for  boiling  meat  is  to  put  it  first  into  boiling  water, 
being  sure  to  have  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat.  Of  course,  putting  a  large 
piece  of  cold  meat  into  the  water  will  at  first  stop  it  from  boiling,  so  keep  it  on 
the  fire  a  short  time  (say  10  minutes)  with  the  lid  on;  then  take  off  the  lid  and 
skim  it.  As  soon  as  the  water  begins  to  boil  thoroughly  again,  the  surface  albu- 
men will  be  coagulated;  then  lift  the  kettle  off  the  fire  on  to  the  side  of  the 
range,  so  as  to  stop  the  boiling  at  once.  Leave  it  there  a  short  time — say  15  to 
20  minutes — so  that  the  meat  may  get  hot  clear  through.  This  will  prevent  the 
meat  at  the  finish  from  being  overcooked  outside,  and  blue  and  uncooked  in  the 
middle.  Then  place  it  on  the  fire  again  and  let  it  simmer.  The  time  for  simmer- 
ing should  be  from  10  to  12  minutes  for  every  pound  of  meat.  All  the  best  ex- 
perience, however,  agrees  in  this,  that  a  long,  slow  boiling  produces  the  best 
results,  so  that  no  exact  rule  can  be  given  as  to  the  time.    An  even  teaspoon  of 


m  MEATS. 

salt  can  be  put  into  the  water  in  which  the  meat  simmers;  it  is  enough  to  season 
the  meat  on  the  outside,  and  more  can  be  added  when  it  is  eaten,  and,  besides,, 
most  of  the  meat  sauces  contain  a  quantity  of  salt  which  serves  as  flavoring. 

After  meat  is  put  into  boiling  water,  a  scum  will  rise  to  the  surface;  this  should 
be  skimmed  off  and  thrown  away.  It  is  one  of  the  very  few  things  in  the  processes 
of  cooking  which  should  be  thrown  away,  as  it  is  wasted  f  ood„  The  scum  is  the 
albumen  which  is  drawn  out  of  the  meat,  coagulated  by  the  heat,  and  rises  to  the 
surface.  Although  the  greater  part  will  rise  at  first,  do  not  fail  to  skim  during 
the  whole  process;  if  any  is  left,  it  will  attach  itself  to  the  meat,  and  spoil  its 
appearance. 

Salt  meat  should  be  put  in  cold  water  after  being  washed  thoroughly  in  fresh 
water  or  milk;  the  water  should  then  be  slowly  brought  up  to  the  simmering 
point.  This  will  draw  out  the  salt.  Remember  that  all  salted  and  dried  meats 
should  simmer  slowly,  as  rapid  boiling  hardens  them.  All  trimmings  of  meat 
should  be  used  in  the  soup-kettle,  or  simmered  in  a  little  water  and  made  into 
gravy. 

In  boiling  an  egg,  what  we  want  is  to  set  the  white,  without  making  the  albu- 
men tough  and  hard;  the  best  way,  therefore,  is  to  always  keep  the  water  below 
the  boiling  point — nearer  that  of  simmering  water.  Some  people  put  the  egg  in 
cold  water  and  take  it  off  as  soon  as  it  boils.  Others  prefer  to  put  it  first  into  a 
sauce-pan  of  boiling  water,  and  then  take  off  the  pan  and  let  it  cook  as  the  water 
cools.  It  is  a  mistake  to  boil  even  a  hard  boiled  egg  an  instant  longer  than  is 
enough  to  set  the  albumen  in  the  white  and  yolk. 

Recollect  that  vegetables  require  boiling,  and  meat  only  simmering ;  there- 
fore, you  can  not,  as  a  rule,  boil  vegetables  with  meat  without  spoiling  one  of 
them.    Vegetables  should  be  put  into  boiling  water  at  first,  and  kept  there. 

Flour  foods  such  as  macaroni,  sago,  rice,  cornflour  and  flour  puddings,  should 
be  kept  all  the  time  in  boiling  water,  in  order  to  burst  the  starch  granules.  The 
mechanical  action  of  fast  bubbling  water  is  often  useful  here,  partly  in  prevent- 
ing the  grains  of  rice,  etc.,  from  settling  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

Stewing. — This  is  a  process  often  confounded  by  ill-informed  people  with  boil- 
ing a  long  time,  and  even  moderately  good  cooks  often  confound  it  with  "  sim- 
mering." A  stew,  properly  so  called,  is  when  both  meat  and  juice — that  is,  all 
the  liquor — are  eaten  together.  Stewing  invariably  requires  a  heat  much  below 
that  of  boiling  water;  135°  to  160°  is  about  stewing  point.  Whatever  is  stewed, 
parts  with  much  of  its  goodness  to  the  surrounding  liquor,  which  should  not, 
therefore,  be  wasted.  And  yet  it  is  not  desirable  in  stewing  to  extract  all  the 
juices  from  the  meat,  as  is  done  in  making  soup  or  beef -tea;  part  should  be  barely 
coagulated,  and  thus  retained  in  the  meat  in  as  tender  a  condition  as  possible. 
To  accomplish  this,  a  bain-marie  or  double  boiler  is  an  excellent  thing  to  use.  If 
you  have  not  this,  it  will  be  a  good  idea  to  extemporize  one,  by  setting  one  dish 
inside  another,  something  like  a  carpenter's  glue-pot.  A  pudding-basin,  with  a 
wide  projecting  rim,  may  be  set  into  another  pan  just  large  enough  for  it  to  drop 
into  and  rest  upon  its  rim.  Put  the  meat  into  this  basin,  pour  hot  water  over  it, 
and  pour  hot  water  into  the  outer  basin,  forming  a  "water  bath;"  then  let  this 
outer  water  boil,  but  very  gently,  so  as  not  to  make  the  inside  basin  jump  with  its 
steam.  Stew  it  thus  for  about  double  the  time  usually  prescribed,  and  compare 
the  result  with  similar  materials  stewed  in  the  old  way.  The  superiority  will  be 
evident.  In  any  event,  even  if  stewed  on  the  old  plan,  the  water  should  not  boil  nor 
get  near  the  boiling  point;  keep  the  water  at  150°  to  160°  by  setting  the  dish  at 
the  side  of  the  stove  and  letting  it  quietly  stew.  Less  water  is  used  than  in  boil- 
ing. A  common  mistake  is  to  put  in  too  much  water.  The  meat  needs  to  be 
barely  covered,  and  cooks  forget  that  at  the  moderate  heat  of  stewing  there  is 
very  little  loss  by  evaporation.  It  is  the  cheapest  method  of  cooking  that  there 
is.  Little  heat  is  required,  and  therefore  little  fuel  used;  nothing  is  wasted,  and 
whatever  goes  into  the  pot  comes  out.  No  attention  is  needed  while  cooking,  and 
the  cheapest  and  coarsest  meat  can  be  used.  This  method  is  peculiarly  adapted 
for  all  gelatinous  meat,  such  as  knuckles,  heads  and  feet,  and  for  all  tough, 
fibrous  meats,  because  long-continued,  moderate  heat,  with  moisture,  is  the  best 
way  of  bringing  gelatine  and  tough  fibre  into  an  eatable  condition,  and  it  will 
not  only  make  it  eatable  but  palatable.  A  tough  fowl  can  in  this  manner  be 
made  presentable,  better  than  by  any  other.    In  order  to  prevent  the  extraction 


MEATS.  99 

of  all  the  juices  from  the  meat  in  stewing,  the  best  way  is  to  fry  it  first;  this 
gives  it  a  good  color  and  moderates  the  escape  of  the  juices,  which  is  often  very 
desirable.  The  thoughtless  method  of  putting  in  an  excees  of  water  and  then 
letting  it  boil  away,  produces  miserable  results. 

In  stewing,  meat  and  vegetables  are  often  cooked  together,  but  as  the  princi- 
ples involved  in  cooking  them  are  different,  and  they  require  different  treatment, 
the  best  plan  is  to  boil  the  vegetables  first,. and  then  use  them  and  their  liquor 
for  the  stew.  Some  people  have  a  prejudice  against  a  "stew."  If  so,  you  can 
dignify  it  by  giving  it  a  French  name,  and  call  it  a  ragout — but  be  sure  you  pro- 
nounce it  ra-goo ' ,  not  ra-gowt. 

Fricasseeing. — This  means,  literally,  "  to  fry-"  It  is  usually  applied  to  a 
chicken,  rabbit  or  any  small  animal  which  is  cut  up  and  fried,  either  before  or 
after  stewing,  and  served  in  a  well  flavored  sauce. 

Frying. — There  are  2  ways  of  frying  known  to  cooks  as  (1)  wet  frying,  some- 
times called  French  frying  or  frying  in  a  kettle  of  hot  fat;  and  (2)  dry  frying  or 
cooking  in  a  frying-pan.  The  best  results  are  undoubtedly  obtained  by  the  first 
method,  although  it  is  little  used  in  this  country.  We  will  describe  the  2 
methods: 

To  fry  anything  by  the  first,  or  French  method,  is  to  cook  it  by  immersing  it 
in  very  hot  fat.  In  fact,  just  as  in  boiling  we  must  let  the  water  cover  what  is 
boiled,  so  in  this  method  we  must  let  the  fat  cover  what  is  fried.  The  same  fat 
will  do  over  and  over  again,  so  that  this  method  is  not  as  expensive  as  many 
people  imagine.  Food  fried  in  this  way  comes  out  quite  dry,  and  without  any  of 
the  greasy  moisture  of  frying-pan  cookery.  An  iron  sauce-pan  or  small  kettle 
must  be  used,  as  the  heat  of  the  fat  melts  the  solder  of  a  tin  pan.  The  rules  for 
good  frying  are:  (1)  The  fat  must  be  sufficiently  deep  to  fully  cover  the  article. 
(2)  The  fat  must  be  sufficiently  hot,  in  fact,  it  should  smoke.  (3)  When  any- 
thing is  floured  before  it  is  fried,  it  must  not  be  floured  until  the  last  moment  be- 
fore it  is  plunged  into  the  fat.  (4)  When  anything  is  fried  that  has  been  egged 
and  bread-crumbed,  it  is  best  to  egg  and  bread-crumb  it  some  little  time  before 
it  is  fried.  (5)  Shut  the  kitchen  door  and  open  the  window  a  little  to  avoid 
scenting  up  the  house;  this  is  a  practical  point  which  should  be  remembered. 

Now  a  few  hints:  The  exterior  of  the  substance  to  be  fried  should  be  as  dry 
as  possible;  by  this  means  we  get  a  good  color,  and  less  bubbling  is  caused.  Fish 
can  be  rubbed  in  flour;  vegetables  with  a  cloth;  meat  should  not  be  washed. 
Before  dropping  anything  that  contains  much  water  into  hot  fat,  lift  the  kettle  off 
of  the  stove,  as  the  fat  is  liable  to  bubble  over  and  catch  fire.  Most  things  that 
are  fried  are  covered  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  flour  and  milk,  or  batter,  in  order 
that  a  crust  may  be  formed  round  them  to  keep  the  juice  in  and  the  fat  out;  the 
essential  thing  is  to  cover  them  completely  and  leave  no  crack.  It  is  best  to 
warm  the  articles  a  littie  before  putting  them  in  to  fry,  as,  if  they  are  too  cold,  or 
if  too  many  are  put  in  together,  they  will  chill  the  fat,  so  that  it  will  soak  into 
them.  On  taking  any  fried  article  out  of  the  fat,  lay  it  to  drain  on  a  sieve,  bottom 
up,  or  on  a  very  hot  cloth,  or  best  of  all,  on  a  sheet  of  blotting  paper.  The  hot 
fat  being  extremely  fluid,  will  drain  off  and  leave  the  article  free  from  grease. 
Never  pile  jap  on  top  of  each  other  articles  which  are  fried.  Bread  crumbs 
should  be  very  fine;  if  coarse,  grease  will  adhere  to  or  be  absorbed  by  them.  They 
should  take  a  fine,  yellow  color,  being  slightly  charred  or  toasted  by  the  high  tem- 
perature to  which  they  are  exposed.  Things  well  fried  are  not  greasy,  but  quite 
dry. 

Frying  food  thus  is  not  adapted  to  materials  which  require  slow  cooking  at  a 
low  temperature,  because  it  heats  the  surface  much  beyond  the  temperature  of 
boiling,  and,  if  prolonged,  meat  is  heated  clear  through  and  toughened.  Cro- 
quettes and  similar  preparations  of  cold  meat  are  much  nicer  cooked  in  this  way, 
and  many  kinds  of  fish  are  greatly  improved  by  this  process,  while  chops  and 
cutlets  which  are  first  egged  and  bread-crumbed,  are  delicious  thus  cooked. 

If  many  articles  are  to  be  fried,  reheat  the  fat  occasionally  to  keep  it  hot 
enough.  Using  fat  which  is  not  hot  enough  is  a  common  mistake;  keep  the  fat 
smoking  hot.  There  is  much  more  danger  of  not  having  it  hot  enough  than  too 
hot. 

It  is  advisable,  when  possible,  to  use  a  wire  frying-basket.    This  does  away 


100  •  MEATS. 

with  much  handling,  and  lifts  all  the  things  out  at  the  same  time.    A  basket 
should  not  be  used  for  fritters,  which  stick  to  the  basket,  and  the  articles  in  the 

basket  should  not  touch  each  other.  As  a  basket 
expands  with  heat,  it  should  not  fit  the  pan  very 
tightly;  it  should  not  touch  the  botttom  of  the 
pan.  If  you  have  no  basket,  use  an  iron  spoon, 
as  tin  or  Brittania  metal  will  melt  if  the  fat  is 
very  hot.  Grease  the  basket  by  dipping  it  into 
basket  fob  frying.  the  hot  fat  before  putting  the  articles  into  it,  and 

lay  them  in  so  as  to  keep  them  from  touching  each  other. 

Fats  and  oils  may  be  heated  much  hotter  than  water,  but  some  burn  much 
more  easily  than  others.  About  350°  to  400°  is  a  suitable  temperature  for  use;  it 
can  be  higher;  for  some  thiDgs  which  require  slow  cooking,  it  should  be  lower. 
It  is  better  to  have  the  temperature  high  at  first,  lowering  it  afterwards.  Re- 
member that  putting  anything  cold  in  fat  to  cook,  lowers  its  temperature  some- 
what. The  temperature  of  fat  can  be  obtained  with  a  thermometer,  but  without 
that,  the  following  tests  offer  some  guide:  (1)  Drop  in  a  few  drops  of  water;  if 
the  fat  bubbles  thereupon,  it  is  over  212°;  if  it  bubbles  very  smartly,  it  is  over 
300°.  (2)  Drop  in  a  piece  of  bread  and  take  it  out  in  %  minute;  if  the  bread  is 
then  crisp,  the  fat  is  about  350°  or  more.  (3)  The  more  violent  the  bubbling  when 
anything  is  put  in,  the  hotter  the  fat.  (4)  A  thin,  filmy,  blue  smoke  rises  when 
the  fat  is  fit  for  frying;  after  that,  if  the  fat  is  further  heated,  it  becomes  thicker, 
until  the  fat  is  burning,  when  there  is  a  dense  cloud.  (5)  Fat,  unless  it  has  left 
off  bubbling  and  is  quite  still,  is  never  hot  enough  for  frying.  These  rules  are 
true  of  all  fats,  and  more  or  less  of  all  frying.  The  reason  that  fat  crackles  when 
it  is  first  put  on  is,  that  there  is  generally  water  in  it.  This  water,  being  heavier 
than  fat,  sinks  to  the  bottom  and  is  converted  into  steam,  and  these  bubbles  of 
steam  escaping  up  through  the  fat  makes  the  bubbling.  If  not  moist  with  water,  _ 
it  would  not  crackle.  When  the  crackling  ceases,  it  shows  simply  that  the  fat  is' 
hotter  than  boiling  water,  and  that  the  water  is  evaporated.  When  you  have 
finished  using  the  fat,  pour  it  into  a  basin  containing  some  hot  water.  Have 
more  water  than  fat,  and  pour  the  fat  in  gradually,  if  it  is  very  hot,  or  else  it  will 
suddenly  create  a  volume  of  steam;  then  agitate  the  fat  a  little,  and  let  it  stand 
until  it  is  cold.  When  you  next  use  the  fat,  take  it  out  in  one  large  cake,  and 
scrape  the  part  next  to  the  water,  which  will  contain  impurities.  The  cake 
should  also  be  occasionally  strained  while  warm. 

With  regard  to  the  best  fat  to  use,  it  may  be  said  that,  while  olive  oil  is  gen- 
erally considered  the  best,  it  is  too  expensive  for  general  use,  and  the  taste  is  not 
liked  by  some  people.  Pure  cotton  seed  oil  answers  well,  and  it  has  but  little 
odor.  Mutton  fat  or  drippings  is  not  suitable,  as  it  is  apt  to  leave  a  tallowy  taste 
and  smell,  and  it  cools  quickly.  For  every-day  use,  lard  is  best,  or,  lard  mixed 
with  clarified  beef  suet,  or  the  drippings  from  roast  beef,  pork  or  veal.  We 
think,  however,  that  some  of  the  vegetable  oils  will  soon  largely  supplant  the 
animal  fats  for  frying,  and  most  other  cooking  purposes.  There  are  many 
advantages  and  few  objections  to  their  use.  The  fat  can  be  used  over  and  over 
again.  It  is  generally  believed  that  for  this  method  of  frying,  several  different 
supplies  of  fat  are  needed,  one  for  meat,  one  for  fish,  and  so  on,  but  if  the  fat  is 
properly  handled  and  clarified,  it  will  be  found  that  this  idea  is  exaggerated.   • 

Fat  for  frying  can  be  clarified  by  cutting  it  up  into  small  pieces,  and  putting 
it  into  the  sauce-pan  with  just  enough  water  to  prevent  its  burning,  and  then  heat 
it  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  bottom  can  be  seen;  then  it  should  be  strained,  or 
heat  it  in  a  frying-pan  to  285°  to  300°  F.,  and  then  very  cautiously  sprinkle  upon 
it  small  quantities  of  water.  The  steam  carries  off  the  volatile  fatty  acids  which 
produce  the  rancidity  in  such  as  fish  oils,  and  also  removes  the  neutral,  offensive 
fatty  matters  that  are  decomposable  by  heat. 

Cotton  seed  oil,  as  it  comes  from  the  refinery,  is  limpid,  pure  and  sweet,  with  the 
color,  taste  and  odor  of  bottled  salad  oil.  From  a  hygienic  point  of  view,  it  is  a  most  val- 
uable substitute  for  lard,  and  is  superiorto  that  for  culinary  purposes.  Use  it  as  you 
would  lard,  taking  only  %  the  quantity.  For  frying  fish  and  oysters,  it  is  less  liable  to 
burn  than  lard,  and  it  does  not  retain  the  odor  of  the  fish.  For  frying  fish  or  fritters,  or  for 
baking  waffles  and  batter  cakes,  it  should  be  hot,  or  they  will  absorb  too  much  of  the  oil. 
For  corn-bread,  add  it  hot  the  last  thing;  it  makes  good  egg  bread  without  eggs.  For 
waffles  with  cold  boiled  rice,  or  for  cornmeal  batter  cakes,  the  addition  of  a  little  of  the 


MUAtS.  ioi 

oil  to  the  batter,  renders  it  as  rich  and  tender  as  though  2  or  3  eggs  were  used.  For 
browning  chopped  onions  and  flour,  stews  and  gravies,  it  is  not  so  liable  to  burn  as  lard, 
and  it  gives  a  very  rich  appearance. 

If  an  accident  occurs  when  frying,  do  not  throw  water  on  the  flames,  as 
that  turns  to  steam;  smother  them  instead  with  a  thick  cloth  or  strip  of  carpet. 

The  philosophy  of  frying  consists  largely  in  the  fact  that  different  fluids 
will  receive  different  amounts  of  heat — water  boiling  at  212°,  beyond  which  it 
cannot  be  heated  in  an  open  kettle,  while  fat  or  oil  will  go  to  560°  to  600°.  Water 
dissolves  and  extracts  the  juices  of  meats  submitted  to  its  action,  but  in  fats  the 
juices  are  preserved,  for  they  are  insoluble  in  oil,  and  substances  submitted  to  its 
action  when  it  is  very  hot,  harden,  assume  a  more  or  less  deep  color,  and  finally 
become  carbonized.  If  the  fat  is  at  the  right  temperature,  it  will  instantly 
harden  the  surface  albumen,  but  if  the  temperature  is  too  low,  the  fat  will  soak 
into  the  article,  instead  of  drawing  out  the  juices  as  water  does. 

To  fry  by  the  second  plan  we  mentioned  above,  or  dry  frying  (the  French  call 
it  saut&ng)  the  following  directions  may  be  given.  To  fry  meat  properly  in  this 
way,  requires  care  and  expedition,  orthe  operation  will  bea  failure,  and,  as  in  the 
case  of  broiling,  it  must  be  done  the  last  thing  while  preparing  the  meal;  every- 
thing should  be  in  place  on  the  table,  excepting  the  vegetables  in  their  hot  dishes, 
and  if  mutton  or  lamb  is  to  be  fried,  the  plates,  even  in  warm  weather,  must  be 
hot,  as  the  fat  chills  rapidly  after  being  taken  from  the  fire.  Have  the  cutlets, 
steaks  or  chops  all  ready  for  the  pan  beforehand,  so  as  to  lose  no  time  at  the 
last;  the  slices  should  be  of  the  right  size  to  serve.  If  beef  is  to  be  fried,  a  little 
of  its  own  fat,  cut  in  bits,  should  be  melted  and  sizzling  hot  in  the  pan — on  this 
much  depends.  Put  the  pieces  of  meat  in  the  hot  fat,  add  no  salt,  as  that  draws 
the  juices,  and  fry  as  fast  as  possible,  turning  and  tossing  the  meat  to  keep  it 
from  burning;  do  not  leave  it  a  moment.  Have  a  hot  platter  in  readiness  and 
take  up  the  meat  when  well  browned  on  both  sides  (which  will  be  in  less  than  5 
minutes)  dust  on  it  a  little  pepper,  if  liked,  and  spread  it  with  butter,  with  a  very 
little  salt  sprinkled  over  it  very  evenly,  and  send  it  to  the  table  as  hot  as  possible. 
Meat  done  in  this  way  will  be  tender  and  juicy,  like  well  broiled  steak.  A  long, 
slow  simmering  of  fresh  meat,  salted  in  the  pan,  will  be  hard  and  indigestible. 
Fresh  pork,  beef,  mutton  and  lamb  should  each  be  cooked  in  its  own  fresh  fat; 
veal  is  so  dry  and  lean  that  it  is  usually  fried  in  the  fat  from  salt  pork,  and  after- 
wards seasoned  as  above.  Other  meats,  if  they  are  lean,  can  be  fried  in  the  fat  of  a 
single  slice  of  salt  pork,  rather  than  in  butter,  which  burns  if  brought  to  the 
right  heat  to  cook  meat  without  losing  the  juices.  Only  enough  fat  is  required 
to  keep  the  meat  from  sticking  to  the  pan;  if  there  is  more,  it  can  be  poured  over 
the  meat,  or  thickened,  and  with  a  little  water  added,  used  for  gravy. 

Braising". — This  is  a  way  of  cooking  by  the  action  of  heat  above  as  well  as 
beloio  the  article  cooked — the  effect  is  somewhat  similar  to  stewing.  A  braising- 
pan  has  a  deep  cover  on  which  live  coals  are  placed.  The  pan  is  air-tight,  and  as 
all  evaporation  is  thus  precluded,  the  food  imbibes  whatever  flavor  the  cook  may 
wish  to  give  it,  in  order  to  effect  which,  she  must  place  in  the  pan  with  the  meat, 
whatever  vegetables,  etc.,  her  recipe  may  direct.  The  ingredients  should  be  very 
well  proportioned,  and  the  stewing  should  go  on  very  slowly.  It  is  not  a  common 
method  of  cooking  in  America,  although  more  practiced  in  Europe. 

To  Steam. — Cooking  by  steam  in  private  families  is  not  as  generally  practiced 
as  it  might  be.  The  steamer  fits  tightly  on  a  pan  or  kettle,  and  as  the  water 
boils,  the  steam  fills  the  steamer  and  cooks  the  articles  in  it.  A  toughfowl,  filled 
with  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  etc.,  and  steamed  for  2  hours  or  so,  will  be  made 
quite  tender.  Fish  and  oysters  cooked  in  this  way  are  delicious.  Stale  bread 
and  biscuit  steamed  5  or  6  minutes,  is  made  fresh  and  good.  Plum  cake  steamed 
3  hours  and  then  baked  1  hour,  is  better  than  when  baked  in  the  ordinary  way. 
Potatoes  are  often  steamed.  In  steaming  puddings,  etc.,  do  not  use  water  in 
which  anything  else  has  been  cooked,  as  it  will  give  them  an  unpleasant  flavor. 
Articles  being  steamed  cannot  burn,  but  do  not  let  the  fire  get  so  low  that  the 
water  stops  boiling  for  an  instant,  or  the  supply  of  steam  will  be  lessened,  to  the 
detriment  of  the  article  being  cooked. 

Sauteing.— This  is  the  French  name  for  frying  anything  quickly  in  a  small 
pan,  with  a  very  little  dripping,  oil  or  fat,  doing  one  side  at  a  time.  It  is  the 
same  as  the  dry  frying  which  we  have  previously  described.    The  art  consists  in 


m 


MEATS. 


having  the  pan  and  fat  very  hot  at  the  start,  and  in  doing  it  very  quickly,  to  savd 
the  juices  and  succulence  in  the  meat. 

To  Lard.— This  consists  in  sticking  bacon  or  other  specified  articles  into  poul- 
try, meat,  etc.  It  is  done  with  a  larding 
needle.  It  is  sometimes  thought  a  difficult 
operation,  hut  is  really  exceedingly  easy.  It 
improves  dry,  lean  meats,  and  though  it 
needs  to  be  done  neatly,  to  look  well,  a  little 
practice  teaches  this  readily.  The  method 
is  to  cut  fat  bacon  into  narrow  strips  of 
equal  length  and  thickness;  for  poultry  and 
game,  these  should  be  about  2  inches  long, 
%  inch  thick,  and  %  inch  wide;  for  fillets  of 


Fig.  1.  LARDOONS.  Fig.  2.  METHOD  OF  LARDING  MEAT. 

beef,  loins  of  veal,  or  other  solid  joints,  the  same  length,  and  %  inch  thick  and 
wide.    Notice  that  for  all  white  meats,  the  bacon  used  must  be  cured  without 
saltpetre,  as  that  tinges  meats  red  in 
cooking.    Put  each  of  these  strips  of 
bacon  (which  is  called  a  "lardoon") 


Fig.  3.     LARDED  NECK  OP  MUTTON.  Fig.  4.     LARDED  TURKEY. 

into  a  "larding  needle,"  and  pass  the  point  of  this  through  enough  of  the  fowl  or 
joint  to  hold  the  lardoon  safely;  then  draw  the  needle  through,  leaving  the  bacon 
in  the  meat,  with  both  ends  projecting  equally.  Do  this  in  regular  rows,  and  at 
equal  distances,  until  the  meat  is  covered  with  a  regular  pattern.  Generally  the 
breasts  only  of  poultry  and  feathered  game  are  larded,  and  the  backs,  or  backs 
and  thighs  of  rabbits  and  hares.  With  soft  meat,  like  poultry  it  is  well  to  first 
dip  the  part  to  be  larded  in  boiling  water  for  a  moment,  as  that  imparts  greater 
firmness  to  it,  and  makes  it  hold  the  lardoons  better. 

Daubing. — This  is  somewhat  like  larding,  but  the  strips  of  pork  are  pushed 
entirely  through  the  meat  from  side  to  side,  instead  of  being  merely  inserted 
near  the  surface.  By  this  means  the  fat  and  flavor  of  the  pork  penetrates  the  in- 
side of  the  meat,  giving  it  a  flavor  which  some  people  relish.  Cut  the  fat  pork  into 
strips  as  for  larding,  but  a  little  thicker,  and  long  enough  to  a  little  more  than 
go  through  the  meat,  projecting  a  little  to  each  side.  A  hole  is  first  punched 
clear  through  the  meat  with  a  steel  instrument,  and  then  the  strip  of  fat  pork  is 
thrust  through  with  the  larding  needle  or  fingers.  Daubing  is  usually  applied  to 
a  thick  piece  of  beef  or  veal.  The  flavor  of  the  pork  may  also  be  obtained,  how- 
ever, by  laying  it  on  the  top  of  the  meat,  leaving  it  on  while  cooking,  and  remov- 
ing it  when  done. 

Boning.— This  is  usually  done  by  the  butcher,  and  means  literally  making  the 
joint  or  fowl,  or  whatever  it  is,  boneless. 

Barding. — This  is  practiced  on  poultry  and  game  and  consists  in  fastening  a 
thin,  large  slice  of  fat  salt  pork  on  the  breast;  it  answers  the  purpose  of  basting. 
Glazing. — This  consists  in  covering  certain  meats  with  a  thin,  golden -brown 
paste  (a  glaze)  made  by  boiling  down  rich  soup  stock.  It  is  used  to  give  meats 
which  have  not  been  colored  by  cooking,  a  glossy  surface,  and  a  brown,  roasted 
appearance. 


MEATS. 


103 


To  Egg  and  Bread.- Crumb. — The  best  way  to  make  bread  crumbs  is  to  rub 
stale  bread  through  a  wire  sieve,  because  the  bread  crumbs  should  be  very  fine. 
A  wire  sieve  is  a  necessity  in  every  home  where  economy  is  considered  or  good 
cooking  desired.  If  the  bread  crumbs  are  to  be  used  for  meat  or  fish,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  can  be  added;  if  for  sweet  dishes,  add  a  little  sugar.  The  eggs 
should  be  beaten  up  lightly;  a  teaspoon  of  water  to  each  egg  helps  in  beating  it 
thin.  The  rule  is,  to  dip  the  article  that  is  to  be  egged  and  bread-crumbed  first  in 
the  crumbs  to  dry  it;  now  let  it  dry  a  little,  then  dip  it  in  the  beaten  up  egg,  drain 
it,  and  then  roll  it  again  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  leave  it  in  the  crumbs  until 
it  is  put  in  the  smoking  hot  fat.  It  is  best  to  egg  and  bread-crumb  anything 
some  time  before  it  is  fried.  The  drier  the  crumbs  the  better,  if  a  good  color  is 
desired.  The  philosophy  of  this  process  is  that  the  egg,  being  albumen,  when 
put  into  the  hot  fat,  hardens  into  a  thin,  tough  film,  which  keeps  the  fat  from  pen- 
etrating, and  with  meat  and  fish  holds  the  juices  within  them.  It  is  evident  that 
for  this  purpose  every  part  of  the  surface  should  be  perfectly  covered  with  the 
egg,  and  that  there  should  be  no  cracks  for  the  juice  to  escape  through.  If  the 
egg  and  bread  crumbs  fall  off,  it  is  because  the  crumbs  are  too  coarse;  or  there  is 
not  enough  fat  in  the  kettle;  or  it  is  not  hot  enough,  the  latter  being  often  the 
cause. 

Dripping1. — Excepting  the  fat  of  mutton,  lamb,  and  that  from  boiled  ham  that 
has  been  smoked,  "dripping"  is  any  fat  tried  from  cooked  meat.  The  fat  of 
salted  pork  is  ready  for  use  as  soon  as  tried,  and  may  be  poured  from  the  frying- 
pan  into  the  bowl  kept  for  that  purpose,  but  the  fat  from  roasted  or  boiled  meat 
contains  more  or  less  water  and  must  be  heated  in  the  frying-pan  until  all  the 
water  has  evaporated,  and  then  strained  into  an  earthen  vessel.  If  more  drip- 
ping is  saved  in  this  way  than  is  needed  for  shortening  or  for  re-cooking  potatoes, 
it  can  be  strained  into  the  kettle  for  frying  doughnuts.  An  economical  cook 
never  allows  good  fat  to  spoil.  The  fat  from  baked  sausages  is  excellent  for  re- 
warming  potatoes,  but  will  not  do  for  the  doughnut  kettle.  The  fat  from  poultry 
may  be  used  very  soon  after  trying  out,  but  it  becomes  rancid  much  sooner 
than  the  fat  of  beef  and  pork.  The  fat  of  mutton  and  lamb,  with  that  from  the 
boiled  smoked  ham,  is  only  fit  for  the  soap-man.  When  the  drippings  to  be  clari- 
fied for  use  are  smoking  hot  in  the  frying-pan,  all  unpleasant  odors  (like  that  of 
fat  from  corned  beef),  can  be  removed  by  slicing  1  or  2  raw  potatoes  into  the  pan 
and  leaving  them  until  fried  crisp;  the  potatoes  absorb  all  the  unpleasant  flavors. 

Thermometers. — We  wonder  that  no  one  has  ever  invented  a  good  thermome- 
ter to  be  used  when  cooking,  and  in  the  kitchen.  We  know  of  none  now.  Mrs. 
M.  H.  Abel  says  she  fastened  a  thermometer  to  a  cork,  having  the  bulb  project 
below,  and  protecting  it  with  a  piece  of  wood;  thus  arranged,  the  cork  would  float 
on  the  water,  and  the  temperature  of  any  article  boiling  or  stewing  could  be  de- 
termined. She  also  used  it  to  test  the  oven,  by  hanging  it  on  a  wire  frame.  The 
present  method  of  guessing  at  the  temperature  when  cooking  is  very  unsatisfac- 
tory, and  must  give  way  before  long  to  a  more  exact  and  scientific  plan. 

Hints. — In  cooking  meat,  it  will  be  an  assistance  to  remember  that  freshly- 
killed  meat  requires  more  time  to  cook  than  that  which  has  been  kept;  also  that 
meat  needs  cooking  rather  longer  in  cold  weather  than  in  hot. 

To  make  tough  meat  tender,  soak  it  in  vinegar  and  water;  if  the  piece  is  very 
large,  soak  it  about  12  hours;  for  10  lbs.  of  beef,  use  about  3  quarts  of  water  and  % 
pint  of  vinegar,  and  soak  it  for  6  or  7  hours.  If  the  vinegar  is  not  very  strong,  a 
very  tough  piece  can  be  soaked  3  or  4  days  in  summer,  and  twice  as  long  in  win- 
ter to  advantage,  and  spices  may  be  added  if  liked.  Or  the  meat  can  be  brushed 
over  with  vinegar  and  let  stand  with  that  on  ^  to  1  day.  The  tough  fibre  is  cut 
and  softened  by  the  acid.  Sour  milk  is  used  for  the  same  purpose,  by  foreign 
cooks,  the  lactic  acid  of  the  milk  acting  the  same  as  the  acetic  acid  of  the  vin- 
egar. The  meat  should  be  immersed  in  the  sour  milk,  which  should  be  changed 
every  day,  and  thoroughly  washed  off  before  cooking  the  meat.  Meat  is  also 
hung  to  make  it  tender,  but  we  explain  about  that  under  "  Keeping  Provisions." 
Stewing  also  makes  many  tough  meats  tender;  see  the  preceding  article  on 
"  Stewing." 

Washing  Meat. — Meat  purchased  from  a  good  butcher  should  not  need  wash- 
ing before  being  cooked;  all  that  will  be  necessary  will  be  to  dampen  a  cloth  with 
cold  water  and  wipe  it  off;  or  scrape  it  with  a  dull  knife  to  remove  splinters  of 


104 


MEATS. 


bone,  sand,  etc.  Washing  meat  will  dissolve  out  the  surface  albumen  and  juices, 
and  detract  just  that  much  from  its  value.  If  necessary  to  wash  it,  do  not  let  it 
stay  in  water,  but  use  cold  water,  throw  it  on  quickly,  and  then  wipe  the  meat  dry. 

The  action  of  salt  on  meat  should  be  understood.  Salt  causes  the  fibres  of 
meat  to  contract,  and  the  juice  to  flow  out  of  its  pores,  often  forcing  out  in  this 
way  as  much  as  %  °f  the  juice  of  the  meat,  which  is  the  reaso.n  of  the  fact, 
familiar  to  every  housewife,  that  dry  salt  in  contact  with  fresh  meat  gradually 
becomes  fluid  brine.  Now  as  the  juice  thus  extracted  contains  albumen,  and 
other  valuable  principles,  it  will  be  seen  that  meat  which  has  been  preserved  with 
salt  can  never  have  the  nutritive  value  of  fresh  meat,  because  the  juices  when 
once  drawn  out  can  never  be  restored. 

Hard  and  Soft  Water. — Many  cooks  also  do  not  understand  the  action  of 
different  waters  on  meat.  For  making  soup,  or  broth,  soft  water,  unsalted,  is 
best  to  use,  because  that  more  readily  penetrates  the  tissues  and  extracts  the 
juices;  but  for  cooking  meat  to  be  eaten,  where  it  is  desired  to  retain  the  juices  in 
the  meat,  hard  water  is  best,  or  if  soft  water  is  used,  put  a  little  salt  in  it.  Salt 
added  to  the  water  in  which  meat  or  fish  is  cooked  acts  in  3  ways:  (1)  It  helps 
to  coagulate  the  surface  albumen.  (2)  Water  containing  salt  boils  at  a  little 
higher  temperature  than  pure  water.  (3)  It  increases  the  density  of  the  water, 
and  the  juices  flow  out  less  readily.  Although  each  action  is  rather  small,  they 
all  combine  to  keep  in  the  juices. 

The  disagreeable  odor  of  boiling  may  be  kept  from  filling  the  house  by 
putting  into  the  water  a  pod  of  red  pepper.  A  lump  of  charcoal  wrapped  in 
muslin  and  dropped  in  the  kettle  will  also  absorb  the  odor  and  prevent  its  perme- 
ating the  house. 

Burning  Fat. — When,  in  broiling  meat,  fat  drops  down  on  the  -  coals,  and  you 
fear  it  may  give  the  meat  a  smoky  taste,  take  off  the  gridiron  for  a  minute  or 
two,  and  put  a  little  salt  on  the  coals. 

To  thaw  frozen  meat,  put  it  in  cold  water,  and  do  not  try  to  cook  it  until  it  is 
fully  thawed.  Do  not  thaw  it  until  just  before  it  is  to  be  cooked.  To  ascertain 
whether  the  thawing  is  complete,  drive  an  iron  skewer  through  the  thickest  part 
of  the  joint;  if  there  is  a  core  of  ice  within,  it  will  be  distinctly  felt  by  the  resis- 
tance it  offers.  If  the  meat  is  cooked  before  it  is  perfectly  thawed,  it  will  often 
display  a  raw  center  when  done.  Meat  that  has  been  frozen  decomposes  easily 
when  thawed,  and  it  is  apt  to  be  insipid  and  dry  when  cooked. 


TABLE  SHOWING  THE   PERCENTAGE  OP   POOD   ELEMENTS   IN   DIFFERENT  MEATS. 


Water. 

% 

Albu- 
menoids. 

% 

Fats. 

% 

Mineral 
Matters 

% 

Potential 

Energy 

inltt. 

Calories. 

Beef,  neck 

62.0 
58.0 
47.4 
27.4 
68.2 
72.1 
60.0 
69.5 
63.5 
58.6 
49.8 
68.8 
58.6 
61.8 
49.3 
51.8 
64.7 
50.3 
12.1 
41  5 
84.0 
72.2 
66.2 
41.2 

19.5 
17.6 
14.6 

12  0 
20.5 
21.0 
18.5 
20.1 
17.4 
28.8 
14.2 
20.2 
18.1 
18.3 
15.0 
17.5 
18  9 
16  0 

0.9 
16.7 
13.9 
24.8 
23.9 

13  8 

17.5 
23.5 
37.2 
59.9 
10.1 

5  7 
20  5 

5.4 
18.0 

4.4 
23  0 

9.8 
22  4 
19.0 
35.0 
29  7 
15.3 
32.8 
82.8 
39.1 

1.8 

2.0 

8  7 
42  8 

1.0 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
1.2 
1.2 
1.0 
1.5 
1.1 
6.8 
3.0 
1.2 
0.9 
0.9 
0.7 
1.0 
1  1 
0.9 
4  2 
2.7 
0  3 
1.4 
1.2 
2.2 

1100 

1320 

1840 

2750 

805 

leg 

630 

1210 

liver  (Carbohydrates  3.5%).... 

665 
1085 

dried  (Carbohydrates  1.4$). . . 

745 
1655 

790 

1280 

leg 

1140 

1755 

1580 

leg 

1000 

1680 

3510 

1960 

336 

540 

810 

2066 

MEATS.  105 

Do  not  put  salt  on  meat  that  is  being  cooked  until  it  is  nearly  done;  if  added 
earlier,  it  toughens  the  fibre.  We  elsewhere  explain  about  buying  and  preserving 
meat. 

The  table  on  the  previous  page  shows  the  composition  of  various  kinds  of 
meat  so  that  our  readers  can  judge  of  their  nutritive  value.  The  rule  in  meat  is, 
"  the  more  fat  the  less  water."  If  flesh  forming  material  is  wanted,  the  lean 
meats  will  best  furnish  it;  if  heat-givers  and  force-producers  are  desired,  fatty 
meats  and  bacon  are  best.  Meat  twice  cooked  loses  considerably  both  in  digesti- 
bility and  flavor.  For  the  meaning  of  the  terms  "  Albumenoids  "  and  "  Potential 
Energy,"  see  the  article  on  the  " Compositidh  of  Foods." 

Cold  Meat. — Cold,  sliced  meats  are  much  relished  by  many,  but  need  not,  neces- 
sarily, be  entirely  cold  when  served,  especially  in  cold  weather.  Arrange  the 
slices  neatly  on  a  platter,  then  set  the  platter  in  the  oven  with  the  door  open,  and 
warm  just  enough  to  take  off  the  chill,  but  not  to  start  the  fat  from  the  meat. 
Serve  it  with  tomato  or  chili  sauce.  Cold  meat  cuts  better  after  it  is  entirely 
cold. 

Remember  that  in  re-warming  all  kinds  of  meat,  it  must  not  be  re-cooked,  as 
that  has  a  tendency  to  harden  it.  By  placing  thinly  cut  bits  of  cold  meat  in  a 
hot  dish,  or  platter,  and  pouring  over  it  the  hot  sauce  or  gravy,  and  then 
serving  in  hot  plates  in  cold  weather,  the  meat  will  be  sufficiently  heated.  Cold 
butcher's  meat  of  all  kinds  can  be  treated  in  this  way;  also  fish,  shell-fish,  poultry 
and  game,  each  covered  with  its  appropriate  hot  sauce  or  gravy.  Mutton  par- 
ticularly calls  for  hot  plates  nearly  all  the  year  round,  as  the  fat  hardens  imme- 
diately on  a  cold  plate. 

Gravy. — Gravy  differs  from  a  meat  sauce  in  that  it  is  made  of  the  juices 
which  drip  from  roasted  or  baked  meats;  or  from  those  extracted  in  the  process 
of  frying  or  saut&ng;  or  from  the  broth  from  boiled  meats,  in  contradistinction 
from  a  sauce  made  from  something  foreign  to  the  meat. 

Gravy  for  roasted  meat  is  made  by  adding  water  to  the  dripping-pan  in  which 
the  meat  is  roasted;  the  juices  of  the  meat  which  have  dried  and  browned  on  the 
sides  of  the  dripping-pan,  should  be  thoroughly  stirred  down  into  the  pan  with  a 
spoon,  as  this  gives  color  and  flavor  to  the  gravy;  the  surplus  fat  must  be  dipped 
off,  but  a  small  portion  left  in  gives  the  needed  fat  and  richness  to  the  gravy 
without  the  addition  of  butter,  and  will  be  thoroughly  blended  through  it  by  the 
addition  of  the  thickening.  The  thickening  is  made  by  mixing  flour  or  corn- 
starch with  a  little  cold  water,  and  stirring  it  into  the  boiling  contents  of  the 
dripping-pan,  which  is  placed  on  the  top  of  the  stove  or  range,  immediately  upon 
taking  up  the  roast.  Most  cooks  of  the  present  day  use  corn-starch,  which 
cooks  free  from  lumps;  others  prefer  the  flavor  of  flour  thickening,  even  if  it 
necessitates  the  straining  of  the  gravy;  browned  flour,  or  browned  flour  and 
butter,  called  brown  roux,  or  white  roux,  which  is  raw  flour  and  butter  already 
mixed,  is  used  by  professional  cooks.  Gravies  should  be  kept  hot  in  a  sauce-pan, 
after  straining,  until  sent  to  the  table,  for  a  cold  gravy  is  an  abomination. 

Gravy  for  meat  fried  in  a  frying-pan  is  made  in  the  same  way,  by  adding  a 
little  hot  water  to  the  pan  after  the  meat  is  taken  up,  then  thickening  it  as  above; 
there  is  usually  no  surplus  fat  when  meat  is  cooked  in  a  frying-pan,  as  only 
enough  fat  is  used  to  keep  the  meat  from  sticking  to  the  pan. 

Gravy  for  boiled  meat  is  made  by  dipping  the  required  quantity  of  broth  from 
the  top  of  the  pot,  together  with  a  portion  of  the  fat,  then  thicken  and  season  as 
for  other  gravies.  A  spoonful  of  any  one  of  the  various  meat  sauces  may  be 
added  to  gravies  for  seasoning  if  preferred. 

Do  not  spoil  gravies  with  high  seasoning  of  any  kind,  for  the  best  gravy  is  that 
in  which  the  flavor  of  the  meat  is  best  retained.  The  English  method  of  making, 
gravy  with  meat-liquor  or  soup-stock  is  as  follows:  When  roasting  beef,  mutton, 
lamb  or  pork,  pour  off  into  a  dish,  %  hour  before  dinner  time,  all  the  contents  of 
the  dripping-pan,  and  set  them  away  in  a  cool  place; 'then  put  into  the  pan  1  or  2 
cups  of  the  meat  liquor  or  stock;  if  you  have  cold  gravy  or  drippings  of  a  previous 
day,  take  off  all  the  fat  from  the  top,  and  put  the  liquid  which  is  left,  into  the 
pan.  Wet  some  browned  flour  smooth,  and  when  you  take  up  the  meat,  set  the 
dripping-pan  on  top  of  the  stove;  the  gravy  will  at  once  boil  up,  and  the  wet  flour 
must  then  be  stirred  in.    Do  not  let  it  stand  too  long,  as  it  will  boil  away  fast. 

With  veal  and  venison,  there  is  but  little  fat,  and  that  is  not  gross,  and  so  the 


106  MEATS. 

gravy  is  made  differently.  When  the  meat  is  first  put  to  roast,  put  some  meat- 
liquor  or  stock  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  add  a  little  more  as  it  boils  away.  When 
the  meat  is  done,  set  the  dripping-pan  on  the  stove,  and,  having  stirred  in  the 
wet  flour  as  before,  add  a  piece  of  butter  %  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  stir  until  it  is 
all  melted  or  it  will  make  the  gravy  oily. 

For  poultry,  the  gravy  is  made  by  boiling  the  giblets  by  themselves  in  a  little 
water;  skim  it  carefully,  as  a  good  deal  of  scum  will  rise.  After  1  or  \%  hours, 
take  them  out  and  pour  the  water  into  the  dripping-pan;  mash  or  chop  the  liver 
fine,  and  when  you  make  the  gravy,  add  this  and  a  bit  of  butter,  some  pepper,  the 
wet  flour,  and,  if  you  choose,  a  little  sweet  marjoram. 

The  fat  that  roasts  out  of  a  turkey  should  be  dipped  off  with  a  spoon  before 
these  ingredients  are  added;  it  is  too  gross  to  be  palatable. 

For  goose  gravy,  pour  off  all  the  drippings  as  directed  for  beef  or  pork,  and  put 
in  some  of  the  meat-liquor  or  stock. 

To  Brown  Flour. — Some  cooks  keep  browned  flour  on  hand  for  gravies  and 
soups,  and  think  it  gives  a  better  flavor  and  color  than  white  flour.  Prepare  it 
as  follows:  Put  about  a  quart  of  flour  into  a  spider  and  set  it  into  the  oven  or 
on  top  of  the  stove;  stir  it  often  lest  it  should  burn.  When  it  is  a  light  brown 
color,  set  it  away  for  use,  in  a  jar  or  wide  mouthed  bottle,  keeping  it  corked. 

Garnishing  meat  adds  much  to  its  appearance.  Slices  of  carrots  are  suitable 
for  hot  or  cold  boiled  beef.  Mint  is  used  for  hot  or  cold  roast  lamb,  either  with 
or  without  parsley.  For  roast  veal  and  calf's  head,  slices  of  lemon  are  used.  For 
boiled  meats  or  stews,  use  capers,  boiled  onions  or  pickled  gherkins.  For  roast 
beef,  horse-radish  is  often  used.  Slices  of  red  beet-root  go  well  on  boiled  beef  or 
cold  meat,  and  for  poultry,  fish,  cold  meats,  etc.,  parsley  is  very  generally  used. 

Slices  of  lemon  served  with  a  plate  of  beefsteak  will  impart  a  pleasant  flavor 
to  it,  and  those  who  like  onions  will  relish  beefsteak  served  on  a  platter  that  has 
been  well  rubbed  with  a  raw  onion. 


BEEF. 

Beef  is  probably  the  best  and  most  wholesome,  as  it  is  certainly  the  most 
economical  meat  that  can  be  purchased  for  family  use.  Very  lean  beef  is  of 
inferior  quality,  while  that  which,  is  very  fat  is  objectionable  because  it  is  so 
wasteful. 

Before  boiling  salted  beef,  it  should  be  soaked  in  a  quantity  of  water  over 
night;  then  put  it  on  in  cold  water  and  it  is  much  better  for  a  long,  slow  boiling. 

Beef  Balls. — Chop  fine  some  cold  beef,  mix  with  the  meat  1  or  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  according  to  quantity  of  meat;  a  bit  of  chopped  onion,  a  little  melted  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper;  flour  your  hands,  roll  into  balls  the  prepared  meat,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard. 

Chipped  Beef. — Heat  together  1  cup  each  of  milk  and  water,  and  thicken  with 
a  beaten  egg  and  a  little  flour;  when  it  has  boiled  5  minutes,  add  a  quantity  of 
chipped  beef;  stir  in  well  and  remove  at  once  from  the  fire. 

Beef  or  Yeal  Cheese. — Boil  and  skim  beef  until  the  meat  and  gristle  drop  from 
the  bone;  chop  the  meat  fine,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sage,  and  put  in  a  deep 
dish;  take  all  the  fat  from  the  soup  and  boil  it  away  some,  then  pour  it  over  the 
meat,  stir  well,  and  set  away  to  cool  and  harden.     Cut  in  slices  and  eat  cold. 

Corned  Beef. — Corned  beef,  if  very  salt,  may  be  freshened  for  24  hours,  then 
put  in  kettle  with  3  chopped  onions,  2  carrots,  (cut  up),a  little  pepper,  and  a  tiny 
pinch  of  cloves.  Stew  until  tender;  thicken  the  gravy  with  2  tablespoons  flour 
stirred  to  a  paste  in  %  teacup  cold  water.  Serve  hot,  with  mashed  potatoes  and 
chopped  cabbage. 

Beef  Daube  (do'  be). — Have  a  slice  cut  from  the  top  of  the  round  of  beef,  3  or  4 
inches  thick;  take  out  the  bone,  cut  places  all  over  it  an  inch  or  two  apart  (doing 


MEATS.  16? 

it  as  evenly  as  possible)  and  place  little  squares  of  salt  pork  in  each  cut;  put  it  in 
a  deep  frying-pan  or  baking-tin  with  a  little  water,  cover  tightly,  and  bake,  or 
simmer  on  the  stove  for  an  hour;  then  turn  it  in  the  pan,  season  with  a  little  salt, 
pepper,  and  herbs  if  liked,  slice  on  an  onion,  2  or  3  potatoes,  a  small  turnip,  and  a 
carrot,  cover  again,  and  bake  or  simmer  until  the  vegetables  are  done.  Serve  with 
sour  apples,  baked  or  fried.    Economical. 

Deviled  Beef.  —Take  2  lbs.  round  steak,  chopped  fine,  add  a  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  %  a  CUP  °f  sweet  milk,  a  good  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  good  teaspoon  of 
salt,  a  little  pepper.  Mix  and  put  into  square,  deep  tins,  and  bake  about  %  hour. 
It  slices  nicely  when  cold. 

Dried  Beef. — This  is  commonly  served  as  an  appetizer,  sliced  very  thinly,  and 
eaten  raw.  It  is  cooked  by  slicing  thinly,  or  rather  shaving  it  as  for  a  relish,  then 
put  it  in  a  sauce-pan  and  scald  with  just  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  it;  let  it 
scald  4  or  5  minutes,  then  drain  off  the  water,  and  add  %  Pm*  °f  cream;  when 
this  gets  hot,  thicken  it  with  a  little  corn-starch  in  cold  milk;  when  thoroughly 
hot,  serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Milk  may  be  substituted  for  cream,  and  a  little  butter 
added  to  season  it,  or  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  This  is  a  convenient  and  economical 
dish  for  a  small  family  living  at  a  distance  from  a  market.  Serve  with  either 
boiled  or  baked  potatoes. 

Dried  Beef  Relish. — Cut  dried  beef  very  fine,  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  little 
hot  water  and  let  it  simmer  on  the  stove  a  few  minutes;  add  a  little  butter,  toast 
slices  of  bread  a  nice,  delicate  brown,  and  spread  the  beef  over  the  slices  of  toast. 
If  the  dried  beef  is  very  salt,  turn  off  the  hot  water  after  standing  a  few  minutes; 
then  add  a  little  more  to  prepare  it. 

Fillet  of  Beef. — This  is  the  under  side  of  the  loin;  take  out  the  bones.  After 
trimming  and  larding,  put  into  a  pan,  in  the  bottom  of  which  are  some  small  pieces 
of  beef  suet;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  1  cup  of  water.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  30  minutes;  baste  often  with  hot  water. 

Frizzled  Beef. — Take  2  cups  of  sliced  dried  beef,  %,  cup  of  butter,  6  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  6  even  tablespoons  of  flour,  %  teaspoon  of  pepper,  and  12  small  slices 
of  bread.  Brown  the  butter  slightly,  add  the  dried  beef  and  let  it  cook  until  it 
curls  at  the  edges;  stir  in  the  flour  dry,  add  the  milk  and  pepper,  stirring  constantly 
until  it  boils;  turn  it  over  the  bread  and  serve. 

Beef  Heart. — Cut  open  the  heart,  rub  well  outside  and  in  with  salt;  make 
a  nice  dressing  the  same  as  for  chicken,  stuff  the  heart  and  sew  it  together.  Roll 
a  nice  round  steak  around  it  and  tie;  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  Then 
put  a  plate  in  the  bottom  of  a  kettle,  put  in  the  heart,  cover  with  water,  and  cook 
until  tender.  When  about  done,  take  it  out  and  put  into  a  dripping-pan,  pour 
over  the  juice  in  which  it  was  cooked,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Make 
a  nice  gravy  to  go  with  it.    Excellent. 

Hunters'  Beef. — Take  25  Dbs.  of  round  of  beef,  3  oz.  of  saltpetre,  3  oz.  of  the 
coarsest  brown  sugar,  1  oz.  of  cloves,  1  nutmeg,  %  oz-  °f  allspice,  3  handfuls  of 
common  sail; — all  in  the  finest  powder.  Take  the  bones  from  about  25  Dbs.  of  a 
round  of  beef,  and  let  it  hang  for  2  or  3  days.  Then  rub  the  above  ingredients 
well  into  it  every  day  for  2  or  3  weeks,  turning  it  every  morning.  When  ready  to 
be  dressed,  dip  it  into  cold  water  to  take  off  the  loose  spice,  bind  it  up  tightly 
with  a  wide  tape  and  put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  crust  of  flour  and  water;  set  it  in 
the  oven  and  bake  it  6  hours.  When  it  is  cold,  take  off  the  paste  and  tape,  glaze 
it  and  garnish  it  with  savory  jelly.  The  gravy  is  very  fine,  and  adds  greatly  to 
the  flavor  of  soups,  hashes,  etc.    It  keeps  good  for  some  time. 


108  MEATS. 

Beef  Kidneys. — Cut  the  kidneys  in  2  slices,  lengthwise;  soak  an  hour  in  salted 
water,  then  wipe  dry;  dip  them  in  a  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  dust,  and  broil 
over  a  clear  fire. 

Kidneys  may  be  stewed  until  tender  in  a  very  little  water,  and  seasoned;  then 
thicken  the  broth,  and  serve. 

Stuffed  Liver. — Scald  slices  of  liver  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt;  make 
dressing  as  for  poultry;  put  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  on  the  bottom  of  a 
deep  baking-dish  or  the  short-handled  frying-pan;  then  spread  half  the  liver  on 
the  pork  and  place  the  dressing  on  it.  Cover  the  dressing  with  the  remaining 
half  of  the  liver,  cover  with  a  pan  or  plate,  and  bake  an  hour. 

Deviled  Liver, — Chop  very  fine  3  lbs.  of  liver  and  J^  lb.  of  salt  pork,  both  un- 
cooked. Then  mix  %  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  3  tablespoons  of  salt,  1  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  *^  teaspoon  of  cayenne,  and  %  teaspoon  of  mace  and  cloves;  add  and 
mix  well  with  the  chopped  liver  and  pork;  put  it  in  a  covered  sauce-pan,  and  set 
that  in  a  sauce-pan  of  cold  water.  Cover  the  sauce-pan  and  place  on  the  fire  to  boil 
2  hours.  Take  out  the  mold,  uncover,  and  let  it  stand  in  an  open  oven  to  let  the 
steam  escape.    This  is  a  cold  dish. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. — Cut  the  bone  from  a  round  of  beef,  and  fill  the  space  with 
bread  and  butter  dressing,  or  a  dressing  made  with  onions  and  spiced  with  herbs. 
Put  a  bandage  around  it  to  keep  it  in  shape,  and  put  it  in  a  pot  just  large  enough 
to  hold  it;  add  about  a  pint  of  water,  cover  tightly,  and  bake  3  hours.  Good  either 
hot  or  cold. 

Mock  Duck. — Take  a  good  piece  of  upper  round  steak,  make  a  dressing  as  for 
turkey,  and  spread  it  over  the  steak;  roll  it  up  and  wind  it  with  a  string.  Bake  it  as 
you  would  roast  beef,  but  not  so  long.  It  can  be  served  hot,  or  allowed  to  cool  with 
the  string  around  it,  when  it  can  be  cut  in  thin  slices  for  luncheon  or  tea.  If  served 
cold,  garnish  handsomely  with  sliced  lemon  and  green  parsley. 

Mock  DucJc,  No.  2. — Make  a  dressing  the  same  as  for  turkey,  put  it  in  a  round  of 
beef  steak  which  has  been  salted  and  peppered,  and  sew  it  up;  then  roast  it  with  2 
or  3  slices  of  salt  pork  on  top,  and  baste  it  frequently.     It  will  be  equal  to  duck. 

Beef  Omelet. — Chop  finely  1  pound  of  raw  beef;  roll  3  crackers  to  a  powder, 
and  mix  with  them  %  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  beat  well  2  eggs,  and  then  mix 
all  together  with  a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and  powdered  herbs;  put  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  pudding-dish,  let  it  just  melt,  then  place  the 
mixture  in  a  cake  in  the  dish,  flatten  down  into  a  flat  cake  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pudding-dish,  and  bake  %  hour.  Take  it  up  on  a  hot  platter,  spread  the  top 
with  soft  butter,  and  send  to  the  table  hot.  Good  for  supper  or  breakfast  in 
cold  weather.    For  breakfast,  serve  hot  cornmeal  muffins  with  the  omelet. 

Beef  Pot  Pie. — A  good  dinner  which  combines  the  needed  variety  of  foods  in 
1  dish,  is  a  beef  or  mutton  stew.  Two  pounds  of  cheap  meat,  neck  of  mutton, 
shin  or  round  of  beef,  is  enough  for  4  to  6  people.  Cut  the  meat  in  inch  pieces, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  roll  in  flour.  Put  the  bones  in  cold  water  and 
heat  slowly;  when  boiling,  put  in  the  meat,  already  browned  in  a  frying-pan,  with 
a  little  hot  fat.  Add  1  or  2  small  onions  sliced  and  fried  with  the  meat,  if  liked; 
a  stalk  of  celery,  or  %  cup  of  strained  tomato,  also  gives  a  nice  flavor.  Simmer 
an  hour,  then  add  a  medium-sized  carrot  and  turnip,  cleaned  and  cut  in  %  inch 
squares;  cook  2  hours,  or  till  the  meat  is  tender;  3^  hour  before  serving,  put  in  6 
potatoes  already  pared,  quartered  and  parboiled  to  draw  out  their  strong  juice. 
Taste  and  season  more  if  liked,  and  skim  all  fat  from  the  top;  10  minutes  before 


MEATS.  109 

dinner-time,  put  in  the  dumpling  and  cook  without  removing  the  cover.  The 
Dumplings:  1  pint  of  flour,  ~%  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  sifted 
together  and  mixed  into  a  soft  dough  with  1  cup  more  or  less  of  milk  or  water. 
Drop  from  the  tip  of  the  spoon  into  the  boiling  stew,  cover  closely,  and  in  10 
minutes  take  up  on  a  hot  platter  or  place  around  the  platter  on  which  the  stew 
is  served. 

Pot-roast  of  Beef.  — Take  5  or  6  pounds  of  the  round  of  beef,  remove  the  bone, 
put  slices  of  suet  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  pot,  and  fry  out  the  fat;  leave  the  bits 
of  suet  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  put  in  the  beef  in  a  round  shape,  and  add  a 
pint  of  hot  water;  put  on  the  stove  where  it  will  cook  slowly.  Cover  well  after 
sprinkling  on  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs,  if  liked.  It  should  cook  2  or 
3  hours,  and  at  last  uncover  it  and  rapidly  cook  out  all  the  water,  until  it  begins 
to  fry  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle;  when  it  is  nicely  browned  on  the  bottom,  take 
up  on  a  platter,  the  browned  side  up,  and  pour  over  it  any  fat  left  in  the  pot. 
Good,  warm  or  cold.    Cut  in  thin  slices  it  makes  nice  sandwiches. 

Pressed  Beef. — Take  any  kind  of  beef,  stew  it  till  the  bones  fall  out,  pick  it 
over  carefully,  removing  all  gristle,  and  chop  finely.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  add  any  herbs  or  spices  desired.  Put  it  in  a  brick-shaped  pan  with 
a  flaring  top,  put  another  pan  on  top,  and  weight  with  flat-irons  or  other  con- 
venient weight.  When  cold,  serve  in  slices.  Thus  prepared,  cheap  and  tough 
pieces  of  beef  may  be  made  delicious. 

Roast  Beef. — The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  first  and  second  cut  of  the 
sirloin.  The  next  to  be  preferred  are  the  first  cut  of  the  rib  and  the  back  of  the 
rump.  Dredge  with  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  place  in  dripping-pan  with  very 
little  water;  baste  frequently.  If  a  large  piece  of  beef  (10  or  12  pounds)  allow  15 
minutes  to  every  pound;  a  small  piece,  10  minutes  to  every  pound.  Make  a 
gravy  of  the  dripping.  After  carefully  skimming  off  all  the  grease,  pour  the 
remainder  into  a  sauce-pan,  mix  a  little  brown  flour  carefully  so  as  not  to  have 
any  lumps,  and  stir  into  the  liquid  while  boiling;  boil  3  minutes  and  it  is  ready 
to  serve. 

Boast  Beef  and  Yorkshire  Pudding. — Into  2  cups  flour  mix  1  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  .add  1  cup  milk,  beat  till  smooth,  and  add 
another  cup  of  milk.  Put  it  in  hot  gem-pans  and  bake;  baste  it  with  beef  drip- 
pings. Serve  it  with  the  roast  beef.  The  batter  is  often  poured  under  the  beef 
to  bake,  but  this  is  a  better  way. 

Spiced  Beef. — Boil  2  or  3  pounds  of  fat  beef  slowly  until  the  bones  will  easily 
separate  from  the  meat;  then  take  it  out,  take  out  all  the  bones,  and  chop  the 
meat  (fat  and  lean  together)  while  hot;  season  with  salt,  white  pepper  and  sifted 
sweet  herbs — sage,  thyme,  parsley,  or  any  best  liked.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and 
put  in  a  brick-shaped  bread-pan  to  become  cold  for  the  next  day.  The  broth  can 
be  used  for  a  soup  the  next  day.  Serve  the  spiced  meat,  cut  in  slices,  with 
potatoes,  baked,  or  cooked  in  any  way  liked. 

Boiled  Tongue. — If  the  tongue  is  salted,  soak  over  night  in  plenty  of  cold 
water;  the  next  morning  put  it  over  the  fire  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it, 
and  boil  slowly  3  or  4  hours,  according  to  the  size;  skin  the  tongue  while  hot  and 
set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  excepting  the  extreme  tip, 
which  can  be  used  for  making  side  dishes.  If  the  tongue  is  fresh,  then  soak  it 
over  night  in  cold  water  in  which  is  a  handful  of  salt;  the  next  morning  put  it  over 
the  fire  and  cook  slowly,  and  proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  with  salted  tongue. 


110  MEATS. 

Tripe. — Tripe  is  usually  sold  already  boiled  and  pickled,  and  is  a  good  food  if 
cider  vinegar  is  used  for  a  pickle;  if  any  of  the  mineral  acids  are  used,  it  will 
unfavorably  affect  the  digestion.  After  coming  from  the  market,  it  is  sometimes 
broiled,  spread  with  butter,  and  served  with  baked  potatoes.  It  can  be  put  on  a 
platter  and  set  on  the  grate  in  the  oven  until  hot  and  then  spread  with  butter; 
again,  it  can  be  fried  brown  in  the  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter,  and  seasoned 
with  any  of  the  piquant  meat  sauces.  It  may  also  be  cut  in  strips,  soaked  10  or 
12  hours  in  salt  and  vinegar,  wiped  dry,  and  fried  in  hot  lard.   It  can  be  stewed  also. 

Fricasseed  Tripe. — Cut  in  narrow  strips  1  lb.  of  tripe  and  add  to  it  1  cup  of 
milk,  or  part  water;  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  stirred  with  a  little  cold  milk 
or  water.  Let  it  simmer  gently  for  %  hour,  and  serve  hot.  It  may  be  improved 
by  a  bunch  of  parsley  cut  sznall  and  put  with  it. 

Beefsteak. — Broiled  Steak. — Grease  the  gridiron  with  suet.  Have  it  hot.  Put 
on  the  steak  over  hot  coals.  In  a  moment,  when  the  steak  is  colored,  turn  it  over. 
Watch  and  turn  frequently.  Do  not  let  out  the  juice  by  sticking  a  fork  in  it. 
Remove  to  a  hot  platter.  Sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter  well. 
Set  platter  into  oven  a  few  minutes,  to  let  butter  soak  well  in.  Serve  hot.  The 
juice  of  a  good  steak  is  inside  of  it — not  a  gravy  in  the  dish. 

Broiled  Chopped  Beefsteak  (called  Salisbury  steak).— Take  2  lbs.  of  raw  beef- 
steak and  chop  fine  in  a  chopping-bowl;  then  press  together  in  flat  pieces,  each 
one  large  enough  for  1  person,  and  broil  over  a  bed  of  coals.  This  is  nice  for  an 
invalid  or  person  with  poor  teeth,  especially  if  tender  steak  cannot  be  had. 

Beefsteak  and  Oysters. — Broil  the  steak  the  usual  way.  Put  1  qt.  of  oysters 
with  very  little  of  the  liquor  into  a  stew-pan  upon  the  fire;  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  take  off  the  scum  that  may  rise,  stir  in  3  ounces  of  butter  mixed  with  a 
tablespoon  of  sifted  flour;  let  it  boil  one  minute  until  it  thickens;  pour  it  over  the 
steak  and  serve  hot. 

Beefsteak  Pie. — Put  about  2  pounds  of  steak  (round  steak  will  answer) 
into  a  sauce-pan  with  a  gill  of  water;  put  on  the  cover  and  simmer  for  an  hour; 
then  cut  the  steak  into  small  pieces  about  %  inch  square;  put  them  into  a  white 
pudding-dish,  thicken  the  juice  with  a  tablespoon  of  corn-starch,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  herbs,  also  with  garlic  or  onion  if  liked,  and  pour  it  over  the 
meat;  then  cover  with  a  rich  pie  crust  and  bake  until  the  crust  is  a  rich  golden 
brown.  This  is  good  to  serve  at  luncheons.  A  less  expensive  pie  can  be  made 
by  covering  the  meat  with  a  nice  baking-powder  biscuit  dough.  Bake  this  also 
until  it  is  nicely  browned. 

Beefsteak,  Rolled. — Put  a  slice  of  round  steak  on  the  meat-board,  sprinkle  on 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  on  bits  of  butter,  with  a  little  chopped  onion  if 
liked,  and  a  little  sifted  sage;  spread  over  it  mashed  potatoes,  or  sliced  raw  pota- 
toes, and  roll  it  up;  wind  with  a  string  and  fasten  the  ends  with  skewers;  put  in 
a  baking-pan  with  a  pint  of  water  and  bake  slowly  an  hour;  baste  often. 

Beefsteak  Smothered  in  Onions. — Cut  6  onions  very  fine,  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  2  cups  hot  water,  2  oz.  butter,  some  pepper,  salt,  and  dredge  in  flour;  let 
stew  until  the  onions  are  quite  soft.  Have  the  steak  broiled,  put  it  into  the 
sauce-pan  with  the  onions,  let  simmer  5  or  10  minutes;  send  to  the  table  very  hot. 

Hamburg  Steak. — Lay  your  beefsteak  on  the  meat-board,  salt  and  pepper  it 
as  required;  peel  and  slice  a  few  onions  and  cover  the  steak.  Then  with  chop- 
ping-knife  chop  all  together  until  like  hash,  and  fry  in  hot  fat,  either  in  balls  like 


MEATS.  Ill 

sausage,  or  plain.    Leave  out  the  onions  unless  you  know  every  one  at  the  table 
likes  them.    This  is  delicious. 

Boiled  Dinner. — Boil  the  corn-beef  early  in  the  day;  when  tender,  take  it  out 
and  skim  the  fat  off  the  meat  liquor;  then,  long  enough  before  dinner  for  them  to 
cook  nicely,  put  into  the  boiling  meat  liquor  the  carrots  first,  having  them  washed 
and  scraped;  a  little  later  put  in  the  cabbage  which  has  been  quartered,  and  the 
turnips  which  have  been  pared  and  sliced;  last,  about  %  hour  before  dinner,  put 
in  the  potatoes  (peeled)  and  a  crook-neck  squash,  peeled  and  sliced.  Boil  the 
beets  by  themselves.  When  done,  take  up  the  vegetables,  put  the  cabbage  in  a 
colander  and  press  out  the  water,  cut  up  the  carrots,  and  serve  the  meat  and  veg- 
etables separately.  Try  and  serve  them  as  attractively  as  possible.  This  is  better 
than  boiling  meat  and  vegetables  together. 

MINCED  BEEF. 

2  cups  of  cold  minced  beef.       1  bunch  of  parsley.  1  tablespoon  of  Chutnee  sauce. 

1  shallot,  or  small  onion.  1  teacup  of  gravy.  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  slice  and  fry  the  onion  until  a  yellowish  brown, 
add  the  gravy,  then  the  chopped  parsley;  stir  in  the  chutnee,  add  the  beef,  and 
let  it  get  hot,  but  do  not  re-cook.  Serve  it  on  a  platter  garnished  with  parsley 
and  fried  bread. 

Mock  Sausage. — Take  1  lb.  of  cold  beef  and  chop  fine;  then  take  3  tablespoons 
of  chopped  or  mashed  potatoes,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  a  small  slice  of 
bread;  moisten  the  bread  with  milk  or  water,  stir  all  together,  add  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  little  sage,  or  chop  an  onion  in.  Make  in  small  balls,  and  shape  like  slices 
of  sausage.  Fry  in  a  little  hot  fat  like  potato  balls,  and  when  brown  on  one  side, 
turn  over  and  brown  the  other. 

Sausage  Roll. — Make  a  dough  as  for  baking  powder  biscuit;  roll  out  and  cut 
in  large  rounds  with  a  large  biscuit  cutter;  lay  fine  sausage  meat  on  half  of  each 
piece,  turn  the  other  half  over  and  pinch  together;  lay  close  together  in  a  baking- 
tin  or  dripping-pan,  and  bake  %  hour.    These  are  good  either  hot  or  cold. 

Potted  Meat  or  Fish. — All  kinds  of  meats  can  be  potted,  and  the  same  general 
principles  hold  good  for  all.  Take  the  cooked  meat  or  fish,  remove  it  from ,  the 
bones,  clear  away  all  skin  and  gristle,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar.  It  should  be 
well  pounded,  reduced  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  no  unbroken  fibre  left.  Then  add 
spices,  pepper,  salt,  made  mustard,  mace  and  cayenne;  the  amount  used  varies. 
If  it  is  intended  for  immediate  use,  add  the  spices  sparingly;  if  to  be  kept  some 
time,  spice  highly.  Then  moisten  with  melted  butter,  and  press  the  mixture 
down  in  small  pots  or  jars  of  stone  or  earthenware,  and  let  it  get  thoroughly  hot 
in  the  oven;  or  better,  steam  it  30  minutes  in  the  steamer.  Then  press  down 
again  and  cover  with  hot  clarified  butter  or  beef  suet,  and  tie  paper  dipped  in  egg 
over  the  top.  Game  of  all  kinds,  fish  and  beef,  are  best  put  up  alone,  but  chicken 
or  veal  can  be  mixed  with  tongue  or  ham.  This  potted  meat  can  be  used  in  slices, 
or  for  sandwiches,  and- as  it  will  keep  for  weeks  if  properly  put  up,  it  offers  a 
change  from  hashes  or  stews,  for  using  remnants  of  food  which  are  left  over. 

Preserving  Meat. — In  cold  weather  when  meat  is  plentiful,  it  can  be  preserved 
for  a  long  time  by  treating  it  in  the  following  manner:  Take  large  pieces  of  the 
fore-quarter  of  beef  (the  cheap  pieces  of  the  neck  and  shoulders);  boil  it  slowly 
in  just  water  enough  to  cover,  until  it  is  tender;  add  a  little  salt  for  the  last  hour;  let 
it  stand  until  quite  cold,  then  mince  it  finely;  season  well  with  pepper,  and  last, 
pack  tightly  in  a  stone  jar,  put  a  few  whole  cloves  on  the  top,  then  pour  over  it 


112  MEATS. 

hot,  melted  beef  suet.  When  this  gets  cold,  cover  the  jar  with  a  cloth,  then  with 
the  cover,  and  store  in  a  cool  room.  This  is  ready  to  use  for  mince  pies,  and  for 
slicing  to  put  in  a  potato  pie,  or  it  can  be  cut  in  slices  and  served  cold  with  hot 
baked  potatoes,  for  breakfast. 

VEAL. 

Veal  should  be  thoroughly  cooked,  for  cases  are  not  uncommon  of  illness  aris- 
ing from  eating  under-done  veal.  The  flesh  is  rather  indigestible.  No  meat  is 
more  useful  for  making  stews  and  gravies  than  veal.  It  needs  much  seasoning  as 
it  is  deficient  in  flavor,  and  while  it  is  richer  in  gelatine  than  beef,  it  has  less 
nitrogen.  It  contains  the  least  heat  producing  elements  of  any  meat,  and  is  best 
eaten  with  bacon  and  jelly,  rice  or  potatoes,  etc.,  which  supply  the  elements  it 
lacks. 

Old  Veal. — This  is  most  delicious  meat  and  but  little  known.  It  is  a  calf  kept 
yarded  near  the  house,  fed  liberally  with  skimmed  milk,  vegetables  of  all  kinds, 
and  fattened  to  the  age  of  5  or  6  months  in  this  way,  then  killed  in  the  fall  when 
the  vegetables  are  gone.    It  is  dressed  and  used  like  beef. 

<  Breakfast  Veal. — Butter  a  small  oval  dish  very  thoroughly,  and  fill  with  bits 
of  cold,  stewed  veal,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg;  put  in  alter- 
nately with  layers  of  bread  crumbs;  moisten  with  gravy,  put  bits  of  butter  over 
the  top,  and  bake.  When  it  is  brown,  turn  out  of  the  dish  on  a  hot  platter  and 
garnish  with  parsley.    If  not  too  moist,  it  will  keep  its  form  when  turned  out. 

Veal,  Creamed. — Chop  cold  veal,  or  cut  in  small,  thin  slices,  leaving  out  the 
stringy  part  for  your  stock  kettle.  If  you  have  a  pint  of  meat,  it  is  enough  for  a 
handsome  dish.  Put  1  teacup  of  rich  milk  into  the  teakettle  pail,  and,  when  hot, 
add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  of  butter,  braided  together.  Let  it  boil  up,  and 
then  stir  in  the  veal,  seasoned  with  pe/pper,  salt,  a  pinch  of  mace,  and  a  slice  of 
onion.  When  hot,  pour  on  a  platter  edged  with  leaves  of  puff  pastry,  and  lay  a 
few  on  the  top  of  the  mince.  The  leaves  can  be  made  of  remnants  of  pastry 
when  you  are  making  pies. 

Calf's  Brains. — Remove  all  the  fibrous  membrane  which  covers  them,  and 
throw  into  a  pint  of  cold  water  containing  %  teaspoon  salt  and  1  teaspoon  vin- 
egar. Boil  3  minutes,  and  plunge  into  cold  water.  When  cold,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  egg  and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  in  a  little  hot 
drippings.  They  may  be  prepared  early  in  the  day  if  for  dinner,  or  the  night 
before  if  for  breakfast,  and  they  may  be  served  plaid  or  with  tomato  sauce. 

Veal  Cutlets,  Breaded. — Egg  and  bread-crumb  the  cutlets,  and  fry  them  in 
smoking  hot  fat,  turning  them  until  well  done.  Then  take  up  and  pour  over 
them  a  good  brown  gravy;  serve  hot.    They  may  be  garnished  with  parsley. 

Calf's  Liver,  Fried.  —Cut  the  liver  in  thin  slices,  pour  hot  water  over,  to  blanch  it; 
let  stand  in  the  water  while  you  fry  the  fat  from  }{  dozen  slices  of  breakfast  bacon; 
take  out  the  bacon  and  cut  a  large  onion  in  slices  and  fry  brown;  then  fry  the 
liver,  after  drying  it  in  a  cloth;  after  the  liver  is  brown  on  both  sides,  sprinkle 
over  it  a  little  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder;  cover  and  stew  20  minutes. 

Calfs  Liver,  Stewed. — Wash  and  lard  a  calf's  liver;  chop  1  turnip,  1  carrot,  1 
stalk  of  celery,  and  1  onion,  and  place  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking-pan; 
place  the  liver  on  top,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  the  whole,  and  pour  on  a  pint 
of  boiling  water;  cover  the  pan,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours;  when 
done,  remove  the  liver,  put  a  teaspoon  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and  place  over 
the  fire  to  heat;  add  the  liquor  strained  from  the  vegetables,  and  a  little  flour,  stir 


MEATS.  113 

until  it  begins  to  boil,  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce;  pour 
over  the  liver  and  serve  at  once. 

Roast  Fillet  of  Teal. — Bone  the  joint,  make  a  deep  incision  between  the  fillet 
and  saddle,  and  fill  with  dressing  made  as  for  poultry;  bind  the  joint  in  round 
form  and  fasten  with  skewers  and  twine,  and  roast  slowly.  Baste  well  with  but- 
ter, dredge  over  a  little  flour,  and  butter  well;  make  gravy  of  drippings,  with  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  added;  garnish  the  platter  on  which  the  meat  is  served  with 
slices  of  lemon  and  parsley. 

Teal  Loaf. — Chop  3^  lbs.  of  lean  and  fat  raw  veal  very  fine,  with  1  slice  of 
salt  pork;  add  6  crackers  rolled  fine,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon of  pepper  and  one  of  sage;  mix  this  thoroughly  and  pack  it  tightly  in  a 
deep,  square  tin;  sprinkle  over  the  top  a  little  melted  butter  and  fine  cracker 
crumbs.  Cover  it  with  another  tin  and  bake  2  hours;  uncover  and  brown  the 
top.    Serve  cold  in  thin  slices.    This  is  very  nice  for  a  picnic  lunch. 

Veal  Mayonnaise. — Cut  pieces  of  cold  veal  into  bits,  not  as  small  as  dice;  put 
in  an  equal  quantity  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces;  mix  thoroughly,  and  pour 
over  it  a  little  of  the  dressing,  reserving  the  rest  to  put  over  the  top  when  it  is 
arranged  in  the  dish;  garnish  with  lettuce  leaves,  and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in 
slices.    Lettuce  can  be  substituted  for  celery. 

Molded  Teal. — Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  roasted  veal,  put  them  in  the  bottom  of 
a  pan,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  celery;  add  a  layer  of  hard-boiled 
eggs  sliced  thin,  then  a  layer  of  thinly-sliced,  cold  boiled  ham,  and  in  this  way 
fill  the  pan.  Pour  over  it  enough  stock  to  cover  the  meat,  and  bake  in  the  oven 
1  hour.    Let  it  stand  until  cold,  and  serve  in  thin  slices. 

Veal  Pot-pie. — Take  2  or  3  pounds  of  fat  veal,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  and  put 
over  the  fire  in  cold  water.  When  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  skim  well,  then 
cook  slowly  about  an  hour;  do  not  boil  rapidly,  as  that  tends  to  make  the  meat 
hard.  At  the  end  of  an  hour  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  sliced  onion 
if  liked  by  all,  and  a  handful  of  washed  rice  to  thicken  it  a  little.  Pare  and  slice 
enough  potatoes  for  the  family,  and  add  to  the  stew;  when  the  broth  boils  again, 
after  putting  in  the  potatoes,  add  dumplings  made  of  baking-powder  biscuit- 
dough,  or  crusts  made  from  recipe  for  pot-pie  crust. 

Pot-pie  Crust. — One  pint  sour  milk,  1  teacup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda; 
mix  hard  like  bread,  let  it  stand  1  hour  to  rise;  never  roll  nor  cut,  but  nip  it  off 
in  pieces  the  size  you  want,  let  boil  30  minutes,  without  lifting  the  lid,  and  you 
will  always  have  them  like  a  puff. 

Veal-and-Ham  Pie.—  Qut  the  veal  into  very  small  pieces  and  put  a  layer  on 
the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish;  sprinkle  over  it  a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and 
powdered  herbs  (sage,  thyme,  summer  savory,  etc.);  then  lay  on  thin  slices  of 
cold  boiled  ham,  fat  and  lean  together,  then  another  layer  of  veal,  and  so  pro- 
ceed to  fill  the  dish;  pour  in  enough  cold  stock  or  water  to  cover  the  meat, 
having  sliced  ham  on  the  top;  cover  the  top  with  a  thick  puff  paste,  and  bake  an 
hour  in  a  hot  oven.  Put  a  dish  of  hot  water  in  the  oven  to  prevent  scorching 
the  crust.    When  this  is  cold,  it  should  be  a  firm  jelly  inside. 

"It's  a  veal-and-ham  pie,"  said  Mr.  Boffin.  "Is  it  indeed,  sir?  And  it  would  be  hard,  sir, 
to  name  the  pie  that  is  a  better  pie  than  a  weel  and  hammer,  "said  Mr.  Wegg. 

Roast  Veal  Pie. — Cut  cold  roast  veal  into  slices,  with  the  stuffing,  and  lay 
them  in  a  deep  dish,  adding  pepper  and  salt;  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and  put 
in  the  gravy  that  was  left,  with  a  little  hot  water  added  to  it;  a  dish  that  holds 
8 


1U  MEATS. 

3  pints  will  require  1  cup  of  gravy.  Cover  the  top  of  the  pie  with  a  cruet  made 
as  follows:  Crust. — One  pint  of  flour  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking-powder  sifted 
through  it;  add  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  }4.  an  egg>  rubbing  it  into  the  flour 
with  the  hand.  Wet  with  some  sweet  milk,  enough  to  make  a  dough  as  soft  as 
you  can  handle  it.  Different  qualities  of  flour  differ  in  the  quantity  of  wetting 
required. 

Scalloped  Teal. — Mince  cold  veal  very  fine.  Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  pudding-dish,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  very  little  nutmeg;  then 
put  in  a  thin  layer  of  fine  cracker  crumbs,  then  another  layer  of  meat,  and  so  on 
until  the  dish  is  full.  Wet  with  good  broth;  if  you  have  no  broth,  make  a  little 
by  boiling  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  your  veal.  Put  over  the  top  a  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs,  wet  into  a  paste  with  a  little  milk,  and  mixed  with  a  beaten  egg. 
If  your  oven  is  not  very  slow,  it  is  best  to  cover  the  dish  with  a  pan  for  the  first 
%  hour,  and  then  let  it  brown  10  minutes  after  you  uncover  it. 

SPICED  VEAL. 

3  lbs.  veal  cut  fine.  1  large  slice  fat  pork.  3  eggs  beaten  -well. 

3  Boston  crackers  rolled  fine.  Yz  teacup  of  catsup.  1  lemon,  rind  and  juice. 

The  salt  and  pepper  should  be  mixed  with  the  crackers;  mix  all,  moisten  with 
water  and  butter.    Bake  2  hours. 

Smothered  Veal.— Place  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking-pan  3  or  i  potatoes  sliced, 
1  small  onion  sliced,  2  slices  of  salt  pork  cut  into  strips;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  sage;  place  over  this  3  or  4  pounds  of  veal  from  the  breast,  or  any  other  part 
desired;  cover  the  meat  with  sliced  potatoes,  onion  and  other  seasoning;  sprinkle 
over  all  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  add  a  pint  of  water,  cover  the  pan  with  another 
one,  and  place  in  the  oven  and  cook  1%  hour,  adding  water  if  it  cooks  dry. 

Teal  Stew. — Cut  up  2  pounds  of  veal,  and  after  having  washed  it  carefully, 
put  it  in  the  dinner -pot;  add  3  pints  of  water,  put  in  1  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
let  it  stew  an  hour;  then  add  sliced  potatoes,  and  take  a  crust  made  with  a  pint  of 
flour,  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  and  %  a  teaspoon  of  soda  sifted  through  the  flour,  a 
pinch  Of  salt;  cut  up  in  squares,  dust  a  little  flour  over  them,  lay  them  in  on  top, 
cover  closely  and  cook  %  an  hour. 

Veal  Toast. —One  cup  of  chopped  veal,  1  cup  of  hot  water,  a  piece  of  butter  as 
large  as  a  butternut,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  %  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Have  ready 
on  a  platter  slices  of  bread  toasted  brown,  and  buttered;  if  the  crusts  are  hard, 
dip  the  edges  in  hot  water.  When  the  minced  veal  is  thoroughly  hot,  pour  it  on 
the  toast,  and  serve  at  once. 

Sweetbreads. — At  once  on  coming  from  the  butcher  (and  that  should  be  as 
soon  as  possible  after  the  animal  is  killed)  sweetbreads  should  be  soaked  1  or  2 
hours  in  cold  water,  and  then  cooked  about  20  minutes  in  boiling  water  contain- 
ing 1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  lemon  juice;  then  plunge  them  into  cold  water  to 
harden  them;  take  out  and  put  into  a  towel  to  drain  out  all  the  water,  and  re- 
move the  pipes  and  membranes.  They  may  then  be  cut  into  thin  slices  and 
broiled;  or  egged  and  bread-crumbed  and  fried  in  hot  fat;  or  sauted;  or  stewed 
in  a  very  little  water,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Serve  with 
any  of  the  meat  sauces  best  liked  by  the  individual. 

Sweetbread  Croquettes. — After  preparing  2  pairs  of  sweetbreads  as  above, 
cut  them  into  dice,  and  also  cut  up  and  add  %  box  of  mushrooms.  Into  a  sauce- 
pan put  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  when  it  bubbles,  sprinkle  in  1  table- 
spoon of  flour;  cook  well  and  add  %  cup  cream  or  soup  stock;  heat  and  add  the 
sweetbreads  and  mushrooms;  when  well  heated,  lift  from  the  fire  and  add  yolks  of 


MEATS,  115 

2  eggs  well  beaten;  form  into  croquettes  when  cool,  then  egg  and  bread-crumb, 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  lard. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads. — Prepare  as  above,  and  then  with  a  silver  knife  pick 
them  in  pieces;  then  put  1  tablespoon  butter  in  the  sauce-pan;  melt  without 
browning  it,  add  1  tablespoon  flour,  stir  till  smooth;  add  1  cup  cream  and  the 
sweetbreads,  stir  till  it  thickens;  lift  from  the  stove,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve. 

Sweetbreads  consist  of  the  Thymus  Gland  found  in  the  neck  of  veal  and  lamb.  It  de- 
creases in  size  and  flavor  as  the  animal  grows  older.  The  glands  are  found  in  the  back 
part  of  the  throat  and  in  the  breast.  There  should  always  be  2  of  them,  although  they  are 
sometimes  sold  separately.  The  heart  sweetbread  is  so  called  because  it  lies  nearest  the 
heart.  It  is  the  lower  one  and  is  round  in  shape.  The  throat  sweetbread  is  the  upper  one, 
and  is  long  and  narrow.  They  are  a  great  delicacy  (those  of  the  cal  f  are  most  esteemed)  and 
if  properly  prepared  make  a  fine  dish  to  tempt  the  appetite  of  the  invalid,  although  opin- 
ions differ  somewhat  as  to  their  digestibility.  The  pancreatic  gland  of  the  bullock  (that  is, 
the  gland  near  the  stomach  which  secretes  the  pancreatic  juice  which  aids  in  digesting  the 
food)  is  sometimes  sold  as  sweetbreads,  but  it  is  inferior  in  quality  to  the  thymus  gland  of 
young  animals,  and  requires  long  and  careful  washing  and  cooking. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Within  the  limits  of  wholesomeness,  mutton  varies  immensely  in  quality  and 
flavor.  It  is  often  thought  more  digestible  than  beef  and  is  therefore  prescribed 
for  invalids.  All  young  meat  is  less  digestible  and  is  also  less  nourishing  than 
full-grown,  but  lamb  has  a  better  repute  in  this  respect  than  veal.  Although 
mutton  may  be  served  rare,  lamb  should  be  thoroughly  cooked  always.  The 
strong  flavor  of  mutton,  which  is  disagreeable  to  many,  comes  from  the  penetra- 
tion through  the  skin  of  the  oil  from  the  wool;  the  thin  outside  skin  should  be 
taken  off  before  cooking  the  meat.  Mutton  should  always  be  served  on  hot  plates 
in  the  winter,  never  allowing  any  cold  mutton  tallow  to  appear  on  the  edges  and 
disfigure  the  dish. 

Boiled  Mutton. — Cut  off  the  superfluous  fat  from  a  breast  of  mutton,  remove 
as  much  of  the  bone  as  will  bring  it  into  shape  for  the  kettle,  add  water  to  only 
half  cover  it,  and  cover  the  kettle  tightly;  let  it  boil  gently  for  an  hour,  then 
turn  it  in  the  kettle,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  herbs  if  liked.  Add  a  little 
more  water  if  needed,  and  boil  for  another  hour;  then  serve  with  caper  sauce. 

A  mutton  ham  can  be  boiled  in  the  above  manner  with  another  half  hour's 
time.    A  leg  of  lamb  also  can  be  cooked  in  this  way  in  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Mutton  Chops. — Remove  a  portion  of  the  fat  and  trim  them  into  a  nice  shape; 
place  the  gridiron  over  a  bright,  clear  fire,  rub  the  bars  with  a  little  fat,  and  lay 
on  the  chops.  Whilst  broiling,  frequently  turn  them,  and  in  about  8  minutes 
they  will  be  done.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  hot  on  a  hot  dish.  Or 
they  can  be  baked  in  a  dripping-pan  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  frequently;  they  are 
very  nice  this  way.  They  can  also  be  fried  on  a  frying-pan,  having  it  very  hot, 
and  using  no  other  fat  than  that  from  the  chop.  As  soon  as  one  side  is  seared 
(in  about  1  minute)  turn  over  on  the  other;  then  finish  the  cooking  more  slowly. 
Sprinkle  salt  on  each  side  when  almost  done. 

Mutton  and  Rice. — Mince  into  dice,  pieces  of  cold  mutton  or  lamb;  add  1  cup 
of  cold  boiled  rice  to  1  cup  of  meat;  butter  the  sauce-pan  thoroughly,  pour  in  a 
little  water,  add  the  mutton  and  rice,  and  stir  until  it  is  hot;  then  pour  in  2  eggs 
slightly  beaten,  and  stir  until  the  eggs  are  cooked.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste. 

Mutton  Patties. — Mince  cold  mutton,  fat  and  lean  together,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  if  the  mutton  is  lean,  add  a  piece  of  butter  and  warm  all  to- 
gether in  a  sauce-pan,  with  a  little  water  to  make  it  moist;  put  it  in  patty-pans, 


116  MEATS. 

and  cover  the  top  with  mashed  potatoes;  put  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  little  dent  in  the 

center  and  bake  in  the  oven  to  a  delicate  brown.    Serve  hot  in  the  patty-pans. 

Mutton  Pies. — Mince  coarsely,  cold  mutton,  fat  and  lean  together,  and  put  in 

the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish.    Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  with  a  little  butter 

if  the  mutton  is  not  fat,  then  cover  deeply  with  hot  mashed  potatoes;  set  in  the 

oven  to  brown  a  little,  and  to  let  the  pudding-dish  get  thoroughly  hot.    Serve 

with  hot  plates. 

Warming  cold  minced  meats,  as  a  pie  with  mashed  potatoes,  is  one  of  the  hest  ways  of 
re-warming  any  kind  offish  or  cold  meat— the  most  appetizing  and  the  most  economical. 

Mutton  or  Lamb  Pie. — Cut  finely,  bits  of  raw  mutton  or  lamb;  put  to  stew  in  just 
water  enough  to  cover,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  bones,  if  there  are  any,  will  sep- 
arate from  the  meat.  Put  them  in  a  pudding-dish,  season  and  thicken  the 
gravy,  and  pour  over  the  meat  in  the  baking-dish.  Make  a  nice  baking-powder 
biscuit-dough,  and  cover  the  pie;  bake  until  the  crust  is  a  golden  brown. 

Mutton  Reehauffe. — Slice  an  onion  and  fry  it  brown  in  the  pan,  with  a  little 
good  butter;  then  put  in  a  pint  of  good  stock,  or  water,  if  you  have  no  stock,  and 
let  it  come  to  boiling.  Thicken  with  a  teaspoon  of  corn-starch  wet  in  a  little 
water.  When  it  has  boiled,  strain  out  the  onion,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Have  cold  sliced  mutton  on  a  hot  platter;  pour  the  hot  sauce  over  it,  and 
send  to  the  breakfast  table  with  hot  plates. 

Scrambled  Mutton.— Take  2  cups  of  cold  chopped  mutton  or  lamb,  2  table- 
spoons of  hot  water,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut.  When  the 
meat  is  hot,  break  into  it  3  eggs  and  cook  until  the  eggs  begin  to  stiffen,  stirring 
constantly.    Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Irish  Stew. — This  is  a  nice  and  economical  dish,  and  can  be  made  from  any 
kind  of  meat,  the  best  being  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  mutton.  Remove  nearly 
all  the  fat  from  2  lbs.  of  meat,  and  cut  it  into  chops.  Peel  and  slice  3  lbs.  pota- 
toes, and  also  slice  1%  pounds  onions.  Put  a  layer  of  potatoes  in  the  kettle,  then 
a  layer  of  onions,  then  meat;  pepper  and  salt  it  well,  and  so  put  in  all  the  materials 
in  layers.  Add  1  or  2  cups  water,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  stew  (not  boil)  2  or  3 
hours. 

Scotch  Stew. — Cut  2  pounds  of  fresh  mutton  into  small  pieces;  put  them  into 
a  stew-pan  with  3  quarts  of  cold  water  and  a  tablespoon  of  salt;  set  it  upon  the 
fire,  and  cook  very  slowly,  letting  it  simmer,  and  keeping  it  well  skimmed.  After  it 
has  simmered  an  hour,  add  a  large  carrot,  2  turnips,  2  large  onions,  all  cut  in 
pieces,  and  2  small  heads  of  cabbage.  Let  the  whole  simmer  until  tender,  and 
serve  it  with  the  various  ingredients. 

Mutton  and  Tomatoes. — Cut  cold  roast  mutton  in  thin  slices,  fat  and  lean 
together;  put  it  on  a  hot  platter,  and  pour  over  it  5  or  6  tomatoes,  stewed,  and 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  a  bay  leaf,  a  little  pulverized  sage,  and  a  bit  of  onion, 
if  liked.  If  the  mutton  is  lean,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  to  the 
tomatoes.  There  should  not  be  much  juice  of  the  tomatoes,  and  the  excess 
should  be  poured  off  before  seasoning.  Good  for  breakfast  with  baked  potatoes 
and  toast. 

Boiled  Sheeps'  Tongues. — Boil  %  doz,  tongues  until  tender,  in  water  which 
is  salted  and  contains  the  juice  of  %  a  lemon.  Sauce  Tartare  is  excellent  to 
serve  with  them. 

Escaloped  Lamb. — Chop  coarsely,  cold  lamb,  either  baked  or  boiled,  and  put 
a  layer  in  a  pudding-dish  with  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  little  bits  of 
butter,  then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  thus  fill  the  dish,  having  a  layer  of 


MEATS.  117 

crumbs  on  the  top;  fill  the  dish  with  hot  water  up  to  the  top  layer  of  crumbs, 
and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are  browned. 

Lambs'  Liver,  Curried. — Cut  it  in  convenient  slices  to  serve,  soak  in  salted 
water  for  5  minutes,  while  an  onion  is  frying  in  salt  pork  fat;  take  the  liver 
from  the  water,  dry  in  a  cloth,  then  put  it  into  a  pan  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides. 
Have  the  fat  hot,  and  fry  quickly.  When  brown,  add  a  little  water  or  stock,  dust 
with  salt  and  a  little  curry  powder,  cover,  and  simmer  10  minutes. 

Lamb,  Grilled. — Take  a  cold  shoulder  of  lamb,  and  score  the  meat  deeply  at  % 
inch  distances;  prepare  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  of  white  pepper,  a  saltspoon  of 
cayenne,  a  trifle  of  onion  juice,  and  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon;  rub  this  into 
the  meat  at  night.  In  the  morning,  put  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear,  coal  fire,  and 
thoroughly  heat  through;  put  on  a  hot  platter  and  spread  with  softened  butter. 
Send  to  the  table  with  hot  plates. 

Kid. — This  is  cooked  in  many  ways,  like  lamb,  and  is  much  like  lamb  after 
being  cooked. 

Sheep's  Brains. — Remove  the  skin  and  blood  vessels  and  put  them  in  warm 
water  for  2  hours;  then  put  them  in  boiling  water,  containing  a  little  salt  and  vin- 
egar, and  leave  until  firm;  then  take  out  and  put  in  very  cold  water.  Then  drain, 
dry,  brush  with  oil,  and  roll  in  crumbs,  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put 
slices  of  bacon  on  them,  and  bake  in  a  well  heated  oven,  basting  frequently. 
When  nicely  browned,  take  up,  put  the  slices  of  bacon  on  toast,  and  lay  the 
brains  on  the  bacon.    Serve  with  tomato,  Tartare,  or  some  acid  sauce. 

MEAT  R'OIiY  POLY. 

4  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking-powder.  1  teacup  milk.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Do  not  use  any  shortening,  but  mix  and  roll  out  %,  mch  thick,  and  spread 
minced  mutton,  veal  or  chicken  on  it.  Have  the  meat  free  from  gristle,  and 
season  it  with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  roll  the  crust  over  and  over,  and  put  it  on 
a  buttered  plate,  and  steam  in  the  steamer  %  hour.  Serve  for  breakfast  or  lunch, 
giving  a  slice  to  each  person,  with  gravy  served  with  it. 


PORK. 

Pork,  more  than  any  other  meat,  requires  to  be  chosen  with  the  greatest  care. 
If  it  is  killed  and  the  flesh  eaten  when  in  an  unhealthy  condition,  those  who  eat 
it  will  probably  pay  dearly  for  their  indulgence.  Care  should  be  taken  that  pork 
is  thoroughly  cooked,  as  it  is  most  indigestible  when  under-dressed.  Uncooked 
or  under-cooked  pork  should  on  no  account  be  eaten.  Exposure  to  the  tempera- 
ture of  boiling  water  effectually  kills  the  trichina,  but  obviously  every  part  of  the 
meat,  inside  and  out,  must  be  fully  heated  to  destroy  all  the  trichina,  and  there 
is  no  safety  without  that. 

To  freshen  salt  pork  or  ham,  after  cutting  in  slices,  soak  it  for  a  few  hours,  or 
over  night,  in  milk  and  water,  or  in  sour  milk,  which  is  quite  as  good;  afterwards 
rinse  it  until  the  water  is  clear,  before  frying,  and  it  will  be  as  palatable  as  salt 
pork  can  be  made. 

Baked  Ham. — Cover  the  ham  with  cold  water  (after  having  thoroughly  cleaned 
it)  and  simmer  gently  just  long  enough  to  loosen  the  skin,  so  that  it  can  be  easily 
taken  off — in  2  or  3  hours,  if  the  ham  is  large.  After  skinning,  place  it  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan in  the  oven,  and  pour  over  it  a  teacup  of  vinegar,  and  1  of  water;  put  a 
little  mustard  in  the  water,  and  baste  the  ham  with  this  while  baking  slowly  for 
an  hour;  then  cover  the  ham  all  over  thickly  with  sugar,  in  which  is  mixed  a 
tablespoon  of  flour,  and  bake  slowly  another  hour  without  basting.    This  gives  a 


118  MEATS. 

nice,  brown,  glazed  crust;  when  it  has  partly  cooled,  turn  a  flat  dish  on  the  pot, 
and  put  a  weight  on  it,  to  get  thoroughly  cold.  This  latter  process  insures  nice, 
smooth  slices  when  cut.  The  juice  of  a  lemon  may  be  substituted  for  the  vin- 
egar, if  preferred. 

Hain  Balls. — With  3^  cup  of  bread  crumbs  mix  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  some 
finely-chopped  ham;  season  with  pepper  and  a  very  little  salt;  make  into  balls, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Boiled  Ham. — To  boil  a  ham  it  must  first  be  thoroughly  washed  and  scraped 
in  warm  water,  containing  a  little  baking-soda;  then  rinse  in  cold  water,  put  it 
over  the  fire,  skin  side  upward  in  the  kettle,  with  water  enough  to  completely 
cover  it;  let  it  slowly  simmer  3  or  4  hours,'  according  to  the  size;  if  it  cooks  rap- 
idly, it  will  break  in  pieces.  When  done,  take  it  from  the  kettle  and  remove  the 
skin  while  hot,  leaving  on  all  the  fat;  stick  cloves  all  over  the  fat  part,  and  put  it 
into  the  oven,  to  brown  a  little.  It  should  be  entirely  cold  before  it  is  cut.  Both 
lean  and  fat  should  be  served  in  carving,  as  many  persons  like  the  latter  best. 
Mustard,  spiced  vinegar,  catsup,  or  pickles,  are  used  as  condiments  with  this. 

Broiled  Ham. — Ham  is  better  broiled  than  fried.  Slice  it  thin,  and  broil  the 
slices  on  a  gridiron,  and  when  done  on  both  sides,  place  on  a  platter  with  a  fried 
egg  on  each  slice.  It  should  be  broiled  over  bright,  hot  coals,  from  3  to  6  minutes. 

Ham  Patties. — Take  1  pint  of  cold  boiled  ham,  finely  chopped;  mix  it  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs  wet  in  milk  to  make  a  soft  batter;  put  the  batter 
in  patty-pans,  break  a  fresh  egg  over  each  pan,  sprinkle  the  top  of  each  dish 
thickly  with  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  until  brown  on  the  top. 

Boast  Pig. — The  pig  should  weigh  twelve  pounds  at  least,  before  dressing;  the 
butcher  should  dress  it,  leaving  on  the  head  and  feet,  and  clean  thoroughly;  the 
harslet  should  be  sent  with  the  pig.  First  cook  the  liver  and  heart  by  boiling 
about  20  minutes  in  a  little  salted  water;  then  chop  them  finely.  Cut  a  loaf  of 
bread  in  slices  and  dip  in  cold  water,  chop,  and  add  to  the  harslet;  pour  over  it  a 
teacup  of  melted  butter,  and  2  well-beaten  eggs;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  sage, 
and  onions  if  liked.  Mix  all  together,  and  fill  the  pig;  then  sew  it  together. 
Bend  the  front  legs  under  at  the  knees,  and  the  hind  legs  forward  at  the  gambrel 
joint;  put  a  stick  in  the  mouth  to  keep  it  open,  wind  a  cord  around  to  keep  the 
legs  in  place;  put  in  the  dripping-pan  with  a  little  water,  and  tin  dishes  on  each 
side  to  keep  it  on  the  knees.  Bake  until  done — 2  to  3  hours.  Baste  frequently, 
using  melted  butter  at  first;  do  not  let  it  burn.  Put  a  small  red  apple  or  lemon 
in  the  mouth  before  sending  to  the  table,  and  serve  with  baked  sour  apples. 

Boiled  Pigs'  Feet. — The  2  front  feet  should  be  cleaned,  scraped,  and  to  keep 
them  in  shape  wrap  them  tightly  in  muslin,  and  sew  or  tie  it  up;  boil  6  or  7 
hours  moderately;  then  let  them  cool,  take  off  the  wrapping  and  they  will  be  like 
jelly.  They  can  then  be  split,  rolled  in  crumbs,  and  broiled  or  fried.  Some  acid 
sauce  should  be  served  with  them. 

Spare-ribs  and  Chines. — These  are  usually  too  fat  to  cook  in  any  other  way 
than  by  baking  or  roasting  in  the  oven;  in  this  way  much  of  the  superfluous  fat 
is  drawn  from  them.  Rub  them  well  with  a  little  fine  salt,  flour,  pepper,  and 
pulverized  sage,  if  liked;  put  them  on  the  rack  in  the  dripping-pan,  containing  a 
pint  of  hot  water;  the  oven  must  be  hot,  but  not  enough  to  scorch  the  meat;  baste 
often.  The  meat  should  bake  about  2  hours,  or  until  it  is  well  browned;  then 
take  it  up,  pour  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  at  one  corner  of.  the  dripping-pan,  and 
thicken  the  remainder  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  or  corn-starch;   add  a  little 


MEATS.  119 

water  to  make  about  a  pint  of  gravy.  Serve  with  sour  baked  apples,  onions,  po- 
tatoes and  mashed  turnips.  Shoulder  chine  of  pork,  and  loin,  is  cooked  in  the 
same  manner. 

Pork  requires  long  and  thorough  cooking,  for  the  texture  of  the  flesh  is  close;  fresh 
spare-ribs  particularly  require  it,  to  extract  all  the  superfluous  fat,  and  it  should  he 
roasted  or  baked  until  of  a  rich  brown  color. 

Chine  of  Pork.— The  chine  of  an  animal  is  the  back-bone  with  the  meat  attached,  and 
griskin  (a  term  obsolete  in  this  country)  is  used  in  England  to  designate  the  back-bone  of 
swine,  and  particularly  that  part  lying  between  the  shoulders  of  the  animal.  The  chine  of 
pork  is  more  often  divided  into  "  fore-loin,"  that  part  lying  between  the  shoulders;  "spare- 
ribs,"  or  that  part  containing  the  long  ribs,  and  "  hind-loin,"  or  small  part  of  the  spine  just 
above  the  hams.  In  England,  the  hind-loin  is  sometimes  called  a  chine  when  the  bone  is 
uncut  and  the  two  sides  of  the  loin  are  in  one  piece,  corresponding  to  the  "baron  of  beef," 
or  "saddle  of  mutton."  In  England  these  are  all  roasted,  but  in  this  country  (the  land  of 
Yankee-cooking-stoves)  all  divisions  of  the  chine  are  cooked  exactly  like  the  middle  pieces 
or  spare-ribs. 

Pork  Cutlets. — Take  the  remains  of  cold  baked  pork  and  cut  it  in  nice  pieces 
of  the  right  size  to  serve;  put  a  little  of  the  cold  fat  in  a  frying-pan  and  let  it  get 
hot;  fry  a  sliced  onion  brown,  then  lay  in  the  cutlets,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown 
in  the  fat  with  the  onions;  take  them  up,  and  make  a  gravy  with  a  little  corn- 
starch and  cold  water;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  thickened,  pour  it 
over  the  cutlets  and  serve. 

Pork  and  Eggs. — Cut  2  or  3  slices  of  salt  pork  in  dice,  and  fry,  often  turning 
it  over  and  over  with  a  fork;  then  break  5  or  6  fresh  eggs  and  put  them  in  the 
pan  with  the  pork;  stir  all  together  rapidly,  and  cook  until  the  eggs  are  set. 

Pork  Rechauffe  (Re-heated). — Cut  finely,  cold  roast  pork,  put  a  layer  of  this 
in  the  bottom  of  a  pan  or  pudding-dish  and  season  to  taste;  then  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  another  layer  of  cold  pork,  and  thus  fill  the  dish;  have  a  layer  of  fine 
crumbs  on  the  top,  but  before  putting  them  on,  pour  into  the  dish  enough  broth 
or  water  to  moisten  the  ingredients;  then  put  crumbs  on  the  top,  and  bake  until 
brown  on  top.  Cold  baked  or  roasted  pork  is  more  often  served  cold,  nicely 
sliced  and  sent  to  the  table  with  hot  baked,  or  mashed  potatoes. 

Pork  Steaks.  —  Take  slices  of  fresh  pork  that  have  the  fat  and  lean  well 
blended,  put  on  a  hot  gridiron  and  broil  it  thoroughly  over  a  clear  coal  fire,  turn- 
ing often,  and  lifting  if  the  dropping  fat  blazes  to  scorch  the  meat;  put  it  on  a 
hot  platter,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  send  in  with  baked  potatoes. 

Fried  Salt  Pork. — This  is  a  most  excellent  dish  when  properly  prepared,  for 
those  who  are  blessed  with  a  good  digestion.  The  pork  should  be  of  the  best 
quality,  arid  "clear  fat."  Cut  the  slices  nearly  J^  of  an  inch  thick,  take  off  the 
rind,  put  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  and  fry  until  crisp.  Place  the  pork  around  the 
edge  of  the  platter,  fry  a  few  eggs  for  the  center,  and  serve.  Salt  pork  is  some- 
times dipped  in  flour  or  yellow  cornmeal  before  frying,  and  is  excellent.  After 
taking  up  the  pork,  a  nice  milk  gravy  can  be  made  by  adding  corn-starch  or  flour 
to  milk;  pour  it  into  the  hot  fat  from  the  pork,  and  stir  until  it  is  thickened  and 
well  blended.  This  gravy  is  good  with  new  potatoes;  also  delicious  with  buck- 
wheat muffins. 

Souse. — Clean  the  ears,  feet  and  gristly  part  (not  the  fat)  of  the  pig's  head; 
let  them  soak  12  hours  in  brine,  then  take  out,  scrape  clean,  and  soak  again  in 
fresh  brine.  Then  wash,  put  them  in  cold  water,  and  boil  gently  until  the  bones 
loosen  from  the  meat.  Then  put  the  meat  in  jars  (not  earthenware,  or  the 
vinegar  will  act  on  it)  and  cover  with  boiling  hot  spiced  vinegar. 

Souse  Pie. — Cut  the  toes  from  the  pig's  feet,  and  use  the  legs  up  to  the  ham. 
Soak  and  clean  well;  cut  in  pieces,  and  boil  in  water  to  cover,  with  a  little  salt, 
until  tender.    Add  a  little  boiling  water  from  time  to  time  as  it  evaporates,  and 


120  MEATS. 

turn  the  meat  from  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  with  a  skimmer  to  prevent  burning. 
Take  out  the  meat  when  done,  and  remove  the  bones;  put  the  meat  in  a  pan,  or 
large  pudding-dish,  adding  a  little  more  salt  if  necessary;  thicken  the  broth  with 
corn-starch  and  pour  over  the  meat;  cover  it  with  baking-powder  biscuit-dough, 
and  bake  until  the  dough  is  well  browned.     Cheap  and  good. 

Salt  Pork  Dinner. — Cut  enough  slices  of  salt  pork  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
frying-pan;  take  off  the  rind;  pour  hot  water  over  the  pork  and  turn  it  off 
immediately;  dip  each  slice  in  flour,  and  fry  it  brown  on  both  sides;  take  it  up 
on  a  platter  and  keep  warm.  Pour  nearly  all  the  fat  into  another  frying-pan  and 
fill  it  with  sour  apples  already  sliced,  with  the  skins  on.  Sprinkle  the  apples  with 
a  little  salt,  and  cover  tightly  With  a  deep,  white  pie-plate;  stew  until  the  apples 
are  soft.  In  the  meantime  add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  to  the  fat  left  in  the  first 
pan;  let  it  simmer,  then  thicken  with  a  little  flour  or  corn-starch,  and  send  it  to 
the  table  in  a  bowl  or  gravy-boat.    Serve  with  new  potatoes  and  sweet-corn. 

Pork  Worst. — Cut  a  pig's  head  in  pieces,  and  soak,  with  the  liver  and  heart, 
over  night  in  slightly  salted  water.  The  next  morning  wash  and  put  it  over  the 
fire  to  cook  slowly,  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  it.  When  the  bones  will 
separate,  take  them  all  out,  and  cut  the  meat  in  very  small  pieces;  return  to  the 
kettle,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  any  sweet  herbs  liked;  then  thicken  it  to  the  con- 
sistency of  mush,  with  flour;  fill  square  baking-pans  with  it,  and  let  it  get  cold; 
then  slice,  dip  in  flour,  and  fry  in  salt  pork  fat. 

Head-Cheese  (English  Brawn). — The  cheeks  of  pigs'  heads  are  reserved  for 
salting  with  the  hams  and  shoulders;  the  remainder  is  cut  in  pieces  and  soaked 
over  night  in  salted  water;  the  next  morning  wash  thoroughly,  and  put  over  the 
fire  in  a  kettle  with  just  water  enough  to  cover  the  meat  (the  cleansed  pigs'  feet 
may  be  added).  Simmer  slowly  until  the  bones  will  easily  separate  from  the 
meat,  then  take  it  up  in  a  pan  and  pick  out  every  bone;  cut  the  meat  in  small 
pieces,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sifted  sage;  pour  over  the  broth  from 
the  kettle,  and  put  it  in  a  cold  pantry  to  harden.  When  thoroughly  cold,  remove 
the  fat  from  the  top  of  the  pan,  cut  in  slices,  and  serve  with  hot  baked,  or  mashed 
potatoes. 

Sausages,  to  Cook. — Sausage  cakes  are  usually  fried;  when  they  are  in  skins, 
they  should  be  pricked  to  prevent  them  from  bursting,  and  they  should  be  turned 
on  all  sides  to  insure  thorough  cooking.  Sausages,  especially  those  made  of  pork, 
should  always  be  well  cooked,  and  should  never  look  red  in  the  center  when  cut. 
They  are  best  baked,  as  they  are  cooked  slowly  and  are  more  thoroughly  browned 
than  when  fried.  Serve  with  baked  potatoes,  or  mashed  potatoes  and  other 
vegetables.  The  large  Bologna  sausages,  made  of  beef  mostly,  require  a  long  and 
thorough  boiling  for  3  or  4  hours;  they  are  then  dried  and  smoked.  They  are 
usually  prepared  and  cooked  by  the  butcher,  and  are  eaten  cold.  The  best  thing 
to  serve  with  pork  sausages  is  apple-sauce.    They  garnish  a  roast  turkey  nicely. 


POULTRY. 

In  selecting  poultry,  choose  those  which  are  plump,  but  not  too  fat.  If  they 
are  young,  they  should  be  firm  to  the  touch.  If  the  bone  across  the  breast  above 
the  hollow  skin  is  hard  to  the  touch,  the  bird  is  old;  in  young  ones  it  is  more  like 
gristle.  White-legged  birds  are  given  the  preference  by  some,  because  they  look 
better  on  the  table,  but  black  are  equally  good  eating.    Dark-fleshed  game  can 


MEATS.  121 

be  eaten  rare,  but  the  white-fleshed  should  always  be  well  done.  In  preparing 
poultry  great  care  is  required  not  to  break  the  gall-bladder,  for  if  it  is  broken,  the 
gall  will  leave  a  bitter  taste  on  every  place  it  touches,  which  cannot  be  washed  off. 

Young  poultry  has  not  an  excess  of  fat  unless  it  has  been  "crammed"  for  that 
purpose,  in  which  case  it  should  be  avoided,  as  that  process  affects  the  health  of 
the  fowls.  Poultry  and  all  meats  should  be  cooked  immediately  if  the  least  sign 
of  taint  appears;  give  it  first  a  thorough  washing  in  soda  water,  then  a  rinsing  in 
clear  water  to  which  a  little  vinegar  has  been  added;  then  either  bake  or  roast  it, 
as  that  mode  of  cooking  drives  away  bad  odors  from  meat  better  than  any  other. 
See  our  article  on  Marketing  and  Keeping  Provisions  for  further  hints  about  pur- 
chasing poultry,  etc. 

It  is  better  to  leave  onions  out  of  all  meat  dressings,  unless  you  are  sure  they 
are  liked  by  all  at  the  table.  A  rich  onion  sauce  can  be  sent  in  with  them,  or 
boiled  onions  served  as  one  vegetable,  for  those  who  like  them. 

If  a  roast  fowl  cannot  be  served  as  soon  as  it  is  done,  put  it  over  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water  and  put  a  dripping-pan  over  it,  which  will  keep  it  from  drying  up. 

If  old  fowls  are  washed  in  warm  soda  water,  the  strong  smell  will  be  overcome. 

The  garnishes  for  fotols  are  parsley,  water-cress,  horseradish,  slices  of  lemon, 
slices  of  ham,  fried  oysters  or  sausages,  and  forcemeat-balls. 

To  Draw  a  Fowl. — Place  the  fowl  on  its  back,  and  make  a  slit  lengthwise  in 
the  skin  of  the  neck  from  the  body  to  the  head;  free  the  neck  from  the  skin,  and 
cut  off  the  neck  as  close  to  the  body  as  possible;  then  cut  the  skin,  leaving  a  flap 
at  least  3  inches  long  hanging  to  the  breast.  Loosen  the  crop  and  the  windpipe, 
and  insert  the  first  finger,  keeping  it  close  to  the  inside  surface  of  the  body;  work 
it  round,  breaking  all  the  ligaments  with  which  it  comes  in  contact,  thus  loosen- 
ing the  contents  of  the  carcass.  Be  careful  not  to  thrust  the  finger  into,  the 
center,  for  if  the  gall-bladder  is  broken,  the  gall  will  impart  a  bitter  taste  to 
whatever  it  may  touch.  Turn  the  bird,  slightly  enlarge  the  opening  at  the  vent, 
insert  the  finger,  and  loosen  the  insides  from  the  carcass  at  that  end.  Turn  the 
bird  again,  and  place  it  on  its  back;  press  the  breast  with  the  thumbs,  and  push 
out  the  gizzard  by  the  hole  at  the  vent;  take  hold  of  it  and  pull  steadily,  when 
the  whole  of  the  interior  should  be  brought  away  entire.  If  all  the  insides  are 
removed,  little  washing  will  be  needed.  Wipe  it  out  with  a  damp  cloth,  or  rinse 
quickly  and  wipe  dry.  If  the  breast  bone  protrudes  too  much,  put  a  cloth  over  it 
and  beat  it  down  flat,  putting  something  like  a  pestle  inside  to  pound  on. 

To  Truss  a  Fowl. — After  stuffing  the  fowl,  sew  the  skin  of  the  neck  over  the 
back.  Then  run  a  long  skewer  through  the  pinion  and  then  through  the  body  and 
out  through  the  other  pinion,  pressing  them  close  to  the  body.  Also  press  a  skewer 
through  the  thigTi  and  body  and  out  through  the  other  i  high.  Pass  a  string  over 
the  projecting  ends  of  the  skewers,  and  tie  it  firmly  at  the  back,  to  keep  the  bird 
firmly  trussed.  The  legs  can  be  crossed  over  the  tail  and  firmly  tied.  The  wings 
and  thighs  can  be  tied  in  place  by  winding  a  string  around  the  body,  if  you  have 
no  skewers;  cut  the  string  off  carefully  when  done,  so  as  not  to  tear  the  flesh. 

Boned  Poultry. — Cut  through  the  skin  down  the  center  of  the  back,  and  raise 
the  flesh  carefully  on  either  side,  with  the  point  of  a  sharp  knife,  until  the  sock- 
ets of  the  wings  and  thighs  are  reached.  Until  a  little  practice  has  been  gained, 
it  will  perhaps  be  best  to  bone  their  joints  before  proceeding  further;  but  after 
they  are  once  detached  from  it,  the  whole  of  the  body  may  be  easily  separated 
from  the  flesh,  and  taken  out  entire;  only  the  neck,  bones,  and  the  merry-thought 
will  then  remain  to  be  removed.  The  fowl  thus  prepared  may  either  (1)  be  re- 
stored to  its  original  form  by  filling  the  legs  and  wings  with  stuffing;  the  body  of 
the  bird,  also,  should  be  filled  with  stuffing,  and  then  the  skin  on  the  back  should 
be  sewn  together,  and'the  fowl  trussed  as  usual.  Or  (2)  the  legs  and  wings  may 
be  drawn  into  the  body,  and  the  remaining  space  be  filled  with  the  dressing. 

Plain  Dressing. — Take  slices  of  stale  bread  (do  not  remove  the  crusts)  dip  it 
in  cold  water,  and  chop  in  the  tray;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  for  %  loaf 
of  bread  soften  a  teacup  of  butter  and  stir  into  the  bread;  add  a  beaten  raw  egg 
and  stir  that  in  well.  Fill  the  cavity  in  the  fish  or  meat,  but  do  not  crowd  it  in; 
sew  up,  or  wind  the  meat  with  a  string,  and  when  done,  this  will  be  light  and 
crumbly — not  pasty,  as  when  made  with  hot  water,  nor  hard,  as  when  stuffed  into 
the  fish  or  fowl.    This  is  excellent  for  fish,  poultry,  game,  etc. 

Poultry  Stuffing, — Take  a  loaf  of  light  bread,  chop  fine;  add  a  little  melted 


122  MEATS. 

butter,  or  cream,  and  2  eggs.  Some  savory  summer  celery  leaves  improve  it 
often,  with  warm  water  and  milk. 

Various  Stuffings.— For  fowls,  a  variety  may  be  bad  by  adding  to  the  plain 
dressing,  dates,  stoned  raisins,  chopped  celery,  etc.  A  little  ingenuity  will  devise 
many  varieties. 

Oyster  Stuffing.— Take  a  small  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  remove  the  crust,  and  crumb 
the  bread  very  fine;  pour  on  hot  water  enough  to  moisten  it,  and  cover  it  tight. 
Chop  1  large  onion  and  a  qt.  of  oysters,  take  %  cup  of  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon 
of  powdered  sage,  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  together,  and  if  the  oyster  liquor 
does  not  make  it  moist  enough,  add  a  little  more  hot  water. 

Chestnut  Stuffing. — Blanch,  boil,  and  mash,  12 large  chestnuts.  Cook  the  liver 
of  the  fowl,  mince  it  fine,  and  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and 
minced  onion,  1  tablespoon  chopped  ham,  2  tablespoons  grated  bread,  a  little 
lemon  juice  and  white  pepper;  mix  all  with  the  mashed  chestnuts,  and  use  for 
stuffing. 

Boiled  Chicken.— Pluck,  singe,  wash,  and  bone  them,  fill  with  any  dressing 
liked;  do  not  crowd  in  the  dressing;  sew  up,  and  boil  gently  for  an  hour  or  more. 
To  prevent  the  skin  from  breaking,  roll  each  one  up  in  a  separate  cloth.  For 
salads,  and  cold  sliced  chicken,  they  may  be  boiled  in  a  kettle  with  the  water 
slightly  salted,  and  without  the  dressing.  Boil  until  the  meat  will  start  from  the 
bones,  and  let  them  get  entirely  cold  before  cutting  for  salads;  then  they  can  be 
skinned  and  all  the  meat  served  in  a  much  nicer  manner  than  when  the  bones  are 
taken  out  before  cooling. 

Chicken  Fricassee. — Take  2  young  chickens,  cut  them  up,  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan,  merely  cover  with  cold  water,  cover  the  pan,  and  stew  until  tender;  then 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  A  little  celery  can  be 
added  if  liked.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  wet  with  a  little  milk  or  water, 
and  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  which  are  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  cooled 
gravy,  before  being  added;  bring  all  to  a  boil,  and  then  put  the  chicken  on  a  warm 
plate,  and  pour  on  part  of  the  gravy,  sending  the  balance  to  the  table  in  a  boat. 
If  old  fowls  are  used,  they  will  need  longer  stewing  than  chicken — 3  or  4  hours 
being  none  too  much. 

Southern  Fricassee. — Cut  up  chicken  as  for  a  fricassee.  Dry  each  piece  and 
dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  dust;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry 
each  piece  very  brown  in  half  butter  and  half  lard.  When  well  browned,  add  1 
cup  of  hot  water,  cover  and  simmer  %  hour.  Then  take  out  chicken  and  put  on 
plate  in  warming  oven.  Have  ready  a  bowl  of  rice — cooked;  put  it  into  frying- 
pan  which  the  chicken  liquid  has  simmered  in,  add  2  tomatoes,  chopped  fine,  a 
Chili  pepper,  also  chopped  fine.  Toss  all  together  lightly  with  a  fork.  Pile  high 
in  the  center  of  platter  and  lay  around  it  the  pieces  of  fried  chicken;  garnish 
with  stoned  olives. 

Chicken  Cheese. — Take  2  chickens,  boiled  tender,  chopped  not  too  fine,  and 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  hard  3  or  4  eggs,  and  slice,  with  which  line 
molds  and  pour  in  the  chickens,  adding  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled. 
When  perfectly  cold,  slice  for  luncheon,  or  Sunday  tea,  or  for  sandwiches. 

Escaloped  Chicken. — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  irregular  pieces;  remove 
all  the  meat  from  a  cooked  chicken  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces;  make  a  sauce  of 
1  pint  of  milk  and  1  beaten  egg,  seasoned  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  put  a 
layer  of  the  meat  in  a  pudding-dish,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  sauce  to 
cover  them;  another  layer  of  meat  and  potatoes,  and  cover  the  whole  with 
cracker  crumbs,  moistened  with  melted  butter;  bake  3^  an  hour. 

Chicken  Loaf. — Boil  2  chickens  in  as  little  water  as  possible  to  cook  them 


MEATS.  123 

without  burning,  until  the  meat  will  drop  from  the  bones.  Remove  the  meat 
from  the  bones  and  cut  it  fine  without  chopping.  Put  it  back  in  the  kettle,  with 
plenty  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  heat  it  thoroughly.  Slice  a  hard-boiled  egg  in 
the  bottom  of  a  dish,  pour  the  chicken  over  it  hot,  place  a  weight  upon  it  and  set 
in  a  cool  place.    When  cool,  it  will  come  out  in  a  form. 

Chicken  and  Oysters. — Take  a  nice,  tender  chicken,  and  split  it  down  the 
back,  and  after  cleaning  it  well,  pound  all  the  bones  flat;  wash  and  wipe  it  dry; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  sweet  lard  until  tender  and  brown  on  both 
sides;  put  it  on  a  platter  and  keep  it  warm.  Make  a  gravy  in  the  pan  (after 
pouring  out  the  fat)  with  3^  pint  of  water,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  flour  for  thicken- 
ing, or  of  J^  pint  of  cream  without  the  butter,  if  preferred.  Have  ready,  about  25 
large  oysters  washed  clean  in  salt  and  water,  then  dried  in  a  towel,  and  add  them 
to  the  gravy  when  it  comes  to  boiling;  plump  them  in  the  hot  gravy,  and 
pour  on  the  dish  of  chicken.     Serve  hot. 

Chicken  Patties. — Take  1  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  corn-starch,  1  pint  of 
cooked  chicken,  chopped  coarsely.  Let  half  the  cream  come  to  a  boil  in  a  stew- 
pan.  Mix  the  remainder  of  the  cream  with  the  corn -starch,  and  add  as  soon  as 
it  boils;  when  this  thickens,  take  off  the  fire,  add  the  chopped  chicken,  and 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  any  other  seasoning  liked.  Line 
patty-pans,  small  saucers,  or  sauce-plates,  with  rich  pie-crust,  and  bake.  When 
all  is  cold,  place  a  heaping  spoonful  of  the  chicken  on  each  crust  and  serve. 

Chicken  Pie. — Cut  the  chicken  in  small  pieces  as  for  frying,  and  stew  in  just 
water  sufficient  to  cover  it,  with  a  little  salt,  until  the  meat  begins  to  separate 
from  the  bones;  take  it  out,  pick  out  the  bones,  and  put  the  meat  in  a  tin  pan  or 
large  pudding-dish;  season  the  gravy  with  a  little  more  salt,  if  needed,  and  a  little 
white  pepper,  then  thicken  with  a  little  corn-starch;  add  a  lump  of  butter  if  the 
chicken  is  lean,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  chicken.  Make  a  rich  baking- 
powder  biscuit-dough,  spread  it  with  the  hands  until  it  is  large  enough  to  cover 
the  pie,  place  it  on  the  meat,  and  cut  a  large  cross  in  the  middle  of  the  crust; 
bake  until  the  crust  is  a  rich,  golden  brown,  but  do  not  have  the  oven  hot 
enough  to  scorch  it. 

Dangerous  Gases  in  Meat  Pies. — If  the  pie  is  cut  and  eaten  hot,  there 
will  be  no  danger  of  its  being  poisonous — if  set  away  to  cool,  be  sure  that  there 
is  an  opening  in  the  center  of  the  crust  down  to  the  meat,  for  the  escape  of  the 
steam  and  gases  while  cooling.  The  rising  of  the  crust  while  baking,  sometimes 
closes  the  opening  in  it,  and  the  slow  cooling,  and  confined  gases,  cause  it  to  be 
unwholesome.  This  should  be  especially  guarded  against  with  all  meat  pies. 
Meat  pies  are  those  made  entirely  of  meat  and  crust,  while  mince  pies  are  made 
of  minced  meat,  apples,  fruit  and  spices. 

Meat  Pie. — Take  cold  turkey,  chicken,  or  any  cold  meat  chopped  fine;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  gravy;  lay  pie-crust  around  the  edge  of  a  platter,  and  cover 
the  same;  bake  a  nice  brown  in  the  oven. 

Pressed  Chicken.  —.Boil  2  or  3  chickens  and  use  what  is  wanted  for  dinner — 
then  take  what  is  left  and  boil  until  it  will  drop  from  the  bones  easily.  Remove 
bones,  and  let  the  liquor  boil  down  if  there  is  too  much;  then  add  the  meat,  and 
season  with  pepper  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Put  in  a  square  tin  to  press.  It  is 
easily  made,  and  is  very  nice  for  Sunday  lunch. 

'  Chicken  and  Rice. — Take  fricasseed  chicken  and  remove  the  bones  from  the 
largest  pieces,  leaving  the  others  in.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  small  pudding-dish 
with  cold  boiled  rice,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  the  chicken,  sprinkled  with  salt  and 
pepper;  then  more  rice,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.    Have  the  last  layer  rice. 


124  MEATS. 

Put  in  the  gravy  that  is  left,  and  cover  the  whole  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well 
beaten.    Set  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  it  is  light  brown. 

Chicken  Shortcake. — Cut  the  meat  from  the  largest  pieces  of  cold  stewed 
chicken  and  remove  the  bones  (the  wishbone  and  other  small  pieces  may  be  left 
whole);  heat,  adding  more  gravy,  if  necessary,  and  when  hot  pour  on  a  shortcake, 
cut  in  pieces,  made  as  follows:  Shortcake. — Mix  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
with  2  cups  of  flour.  Rub  into  it  a' small  %  CUP  °f  butter,  and  then  add  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  a  thin  sheet. 

Chicken  Supreme. — First  skin,  then  carefully  cut  the  breast  meat  from  2  full 
grown  chickens;  divide  each  side  of  the  breast  meat  into  2  long  fillets— this  will 
give  8  pieces,  and  is  sufficient  for  a  party  of  that  number;  flatten  them  by  rolling 
with  the  rolling-pin  until  they  are  about  an  inch  thick,  then  broil  over  a  clear 
coal  fire  until  they  are  thoroughly  done  and  well  browned;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
white  pepper,  place  on  a  hot  platter,  and  spread  with  butter.  Garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve  with  currant  jelly,  or  any  meat  sauce  preferred.  These  fillets 
can  be  stewed  tender  in  a  little  water,  and  served  with  Bechamel  sauce.  The 
remainder  of  the  fowls  can  be  used  for  a  stew,  chicken  pie,  or  chicken  fricassee. 
Chicken  Tarts. — Mince  cold  chicken  very  fine,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Boil  1  cup  of  milk  with  %  an  onion  and  a  blade  of  mace  in  it;  when  it 
is  scalding  hot,  take  out  the  onion  and  mace,  and  stir  in  a  thickening  made  of  1 
teaspoon  of  flour  wet  with  cold  milk.  When  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  mix  in 
2  cups  of  chopped  chicken.  Have  ready  some  rather  large  tarts  made  of  puff 
paste,  and  put  a  spoonful  of  the  mince  in  each. 

Chicken  and  Tomatoes. — Prepare  chicken  as  for  a  fricassee,  with  a  few  slices 
of  salt  pork  and  a  small  onion,  sliced;  cover  them  with  water  and  let  them  sim- 
mer slowly;  when  nearly  cooked,  add  4  medium-sized  tomatoes,  peeled  and 
sliced,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  ^  hour  longer.  Arrange  the  chicken 
on  a  platter  with  some  toasted  crackers,  and  pour  the  broth  over  the  whole  and 
serve. 

Fried  Fowl. — Cold  roast  or  boiled  fowl  can  be  dipped  in  batter  and  fried. 
Make  the  batter  of  4  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  egg,  %  cup  of  water,  and  2 
tablespoons  of  salad  oil.  Add  the  water  to  the  flour  gradually,  stirring  it  smooth; 
then  beat  in  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  with  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  just  before  you  want 
your  batter,  stir  in  the  beaten  white;  some  flour  may  require  a  little  more  water. 
Dip  each  piece  of  chicken  in  the  batter,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

Giblets. — These  are  the  liver,  heart  and  gizzard  of  fowls,  with  the  feet,  and 
long,  bony  part  of  the  legs,  and  the  tips  of  the  wings.  Carefully  cut  away  the 
gall  sack  from  the  liver,  peel  the  hard  lining  from  the  inside  of  the  gizzard,  and 
remove  the  veins,  arteries  and  enveloping  membranes  from  the  heart;  throw  them 
in  cold  water  and  wash  well.  Boil  them  %  hour  in  slightly  salted  water  sufficient 
to  cover  them.  Take  them  up,  cut  in  small  pieces,  or  chop,  thicken  and  season 
the  gravy  and  return  the  giblets  to  reheat;  then  serve  as  giblets  stewed.  Or  they 
maybe  baked  in  2 crusts  as  "giblet  pie."  Giblets  are  also  chopped,  added  to  the 
gravies,  and  served  with  the  fowls  they  were  taken  from.  Scald  and  scrape  the 
legs  and  feet  for  the  soup-kettle — they  are  rich  in  gelatine. 

To  Make  Old  Fowls  Tender. — Take  an  old  fowl  and  stew  it  from  2  to  4  hours 
according  to  our  directions  for  stewing;  then  roast  it  in  the  oven,  basting  fre- 
quently. It  will  make  an  old  fowl  5  or  6  years  old,  tender  and  equal  to  a  chicken. 
Try  it. 


MEATS.  125 

Fowls  RechauffiS  {Reheated).— Cut  up  a  cold  fowl,  taking  off  the  legs  and 
wings,  and  dividing  the  fowl  in  pieces;  season  bread  crumbs  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  minced  parsley;  mix  all  together  and  lay  over  the  pieces  of  fowl  in  a 
dripping-pan,  and  brown  them  in  the  oven.  While  that  is  taking  place,  make  a 
gravy  of  butter  and  flour  in  %  pint  of  water  or  broth;  add  a  tablespoon  of  catsup 
and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point;  place  the  warmed  fowl  in  a  dish  to  serve, 
pour  over  it  the  hot  gravy,  and  send  to  the  table  immediately.  Good  for  breakfast. 

Minced  Fowl. — Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  put  them  on  to  boil  with  the 
bits  of  skin  which  are  left,  and  an  onion,  in  enough  water  to  cover  them.  When 
they  have  boiled  until  you  have  a  cup  of  strong  stock,  strain  and  pour  in  a  cup  of 
hot  milk,  with  pepper  and  salt;  then  stir  in  2  cups  of  minced  fowl,  and  serve  with 
chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  it. 

Steamed  Fowl.  —Place  a  fowl  in  a  close  steamer  and  cook  1  hour.  Then  re- 
move from  the  steamer,  rub  well  with  salt,  and  stuff  as  for  baking;  steam  again 
until  perfectly  tender,  then  place  it  in  a  baking-pan,  rub  with  flour  and  butter 
and  place  in  the  oven  until  brown,  basting  often  with  butter.  Use  some  of  the 
liquor  in  the  steamer  for  gravy  by  adding  it  to  the  butter  in  the  dripping-pan; 
thicken  the  gravy  with  flour,  and  add  the  chopped  giblets  and  a  little  celery  salt. 

Guinea  Fowls.  — They  are  better  when  a  year  old  and  under,  for  the  old  fowls 
are  apt  to  be  tough  and  dry.  Guinea  fowls  are  cooked  in  various  ways  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  common  domestic  fowls. 

Roast  Duck. — Choose  ducks  that  are  plump,  and  have  yellowish  feet;  dress 
like  other  poultry,  taking  care  to  get  off  all  the  down.  Fill  the  body  with  sea- 
soned dressing,  sew  up,  and  bake  or  roast,  basting  often.  They  are  often  par- 
boiled before  being  baked,  as  that  lessens  the  strong  taste.  They  can  also  be 
stuffed  with  apples  which  absorb  the  strong  taste  and  should  not  be  eaten  on 
that  account.  Celery  should  be  served  with  roast  duck,  and  any  of  the  piquant 
meat  sauces  liked  best. 

Wild  ducks  are  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  the  domestic  variety,  but  if  the 
bones  are  solid  and  show  indications  of  age,  they  are  better  stewed,  or  boiled  and 
made  into  side  dishes. 

Geese. — Geese  are  called  green  until  they  are  4  or  5  months  old.  They  are 
dressed,  singed,  trussed,  and  roasted  in  the  same  way  as  chicken,  carefully 
basting  them  while  baking  or  roasting.  Cook  until  they  are  thoroughly  browned 
on  both  sides,  and  the  English  sauce  for  them  is  made  of  gooseberries,  as  their 
name  indicates.  The  remains  of  baked  green  goose  is  made  into  entries,  side 
dishes,  hashes,  etc.,  in  the  same  way  that  other  cold  poultry  is  re-warmed. 

Roast  Goose. — It  is  better  to  keep  the  goose  a  few  days  after  coming  from 
the  market,  but  do  not  let  it  come  to  the  slightest  taint.  Pluck,  singe,  draw, 
and  wash  thoroughly;  then  fill  the  cavity  with  a  dressing  made  with  sage  and 
onions,  if  liked,  or  a  plain  bread  and  butter  filling  may  be  used.  Sew  up,  and 
bake  or  roast  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  golden  brown  on  both  sides.  Baste 
often;  use  butter  and  flour  when  nearly  done.  The  goose  is  sometimes  parboiled 
before  baking.  The  oil  which  runs  out  will  be  too  strong  for  gravy.  Serve  apple 
sauce  with  the  goose. 

Goose  Stuffing  {Soyer's). — Take  4  apples,  peeled  and  cored,  4  onions,  a  little 
sage  and  thyme;  stew  until  soft,  then  pulp  through  a  sieve;  add  a  sufficient 
amount  of  mashed  potato  to  fill  the  bird.  The  stuffing  should  be  well  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper. 


126  MEATS. 

Boiled  Turkey.— Draw  and  clean  the  turkey,  then  bone  and  nearly  fill  the 
inside  with  veal  force-meat;  thrust  a  trimmed  boiled  tongue  down  the  middle  of 
the  force-meat,  and  sew  up  the  turkey  securely;  truss  and  put  it  as  near  as 
possible  in  the  original  shape.  Sew  it  up  in  a  buttered  cloth,  and  boil  very 
gently  to  prevent  it  from  bursting.  To  carve,  cut  across  the  breast,  so  as  to  give 
each  person  a  slice  composed  of  equal  parts  of  tongue,  turkey  and  force-meat. 
Turkeys  dressed  in  this  fashion,  covered  with  Bechamel  sauce,  and  garnished 
with  aspic  jelly,  form  an  elegant  dish  for  ball  suppers. 

Boned  Turkey,  Boiled. — Chop  finely  about  a  pound  of  veal,  and  %  pound  of 
salt  pork;  roll  3  crackers,  add  2  eggs  well  beaten,  with  a  little  chopped  parsley; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix,  and  fill  the  turkey,  not  crowding  it.  Sew  it  up  and 
roll  in  a  cloth;  boil  from  3  to  4  hours,  then  press  by  putting  it  on  a  platter,  turn 
another  platter  over  it,  and  place  a  weight  on  the  upper  platter,  until  cold. 
Take  a  quart  of  the  broth  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled,  add  an  ounce  of  gela- 
tine which  has  been  soaked  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  place 
it  in  a  dish  about  an  inch  deep;  when  solid,  cut  %  of  it  in  inch  squares  to  lay 
over  the  top  of  the  turkey;  beat  the  other  half  with  a  fork  and  place  around  the 
turkey.  Sausage  meat  of  fresh  pork,  highly  seasoned,  may  be  used  for  filling, 
instead  of  the  veal  and  salt  pork. 

Boast  Turkey.— After  drawing  the  turkey,  stuff  it  with  bread,  oysters,  or  any 
other  stuffing  desired;  then  sew  it  up,  truss,  and  rub  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  on 
pepper,  salt  and  flour.  Put  it  in  to  roast,  having  the  oven  hot  at  first;  then 
reduce  the  heat  and  put  2  cups  of  water  in  the  dripping-pan.  Baste  frequently, 
and  each  time  dredge  on  salt  and  flour.  It  should  be  cooked  thoroughly,  roasting 
about  20  minutes  to  the  pound,  and  20  minutes  extra.  Cranberry  sauce  and 
currant  jelly  are  the  best  things  to  serve  with  roast  turkey. 

Giblet  gravy  can  be  made  for  turkey  by  boiling  the  giblets  till  very 
tender  (begin  to  boil  them  early);  then  chop  fine,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  and 
sufficient  flour  to  thicken.  When  the  turkey  is  removed  from  the  pan,  pour  on 
the  giblets  sufficient  gravy  from  the  pan,  and  boil  it.  Make  an  ordinary  gravy 
with  the  balance  left  in  the  pan,  as  some  do  not  like  giblet  gravy. 

Turkey  Cheese. — This  is  an  excellent  way  to  cook  an  old  turkey  too  tough  for 
roasting.  Have  it  dressed  in  the  usual  way,  and  let  it  hang  in  the  larder  for  a 
few  days  if  the  weather  is  cold.  Singe,  wash,  and  cut  it  in  small  pieces  as  for  a 
fricassee  of  chicken;  put  it  in  the  dinner-pot  with  just  cold  water  enough  to  cover 
it,  put  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  come  to  boiling;  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and 
set  the  kettle  on  the  back  of  the  range,  where  it  will  gently  simmer  until  the 
meat  will  separate  from  the  bones.  At  this  stage,  remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire, 
take  out  the  turkey  into  a  pan  or  deep  earthen  dish,  remove  all  the  bones,  cut 
the  larger  pieces  of  meat  into  smaller  portions,  season  with  more  salt,  if  needed, 
add  pepper  and  herbs,  if  liked;  then  pour  the  liquor  from  the  kettle  over  it,  and 
let  it  get  cold  before  using  it. 

Turkey  Bagout.— Cut  all  the  meat  left  from  roast  turkey,  in  as  large  pieces 
as  it  will  allow.  Break  up  the  bones,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  cold  water  to 
cover  them,  boil  an  hour,  strain  out  the  bones;  season  the  liquid  with  pepper,  salt, 
a  little  chopped  celery  or  celery  salt;  stir  in  a  thickening  made  of  a  spoonful  of 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk,  %  a  cup  of  milk,  and  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg.  Stir  over  the  fire  constantly  until  thick  as  cream,  put  in  the  cold  turkey, 
simmer  5  minutes  and  serve. 


MEATS.  127 

A  Good  Breakfast  Dish. — A  fine  breakfast  dish  can  be  made  by  frying  the 
livers  of  chickens  or  turkeys  with  a  few  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Cut  the  liver  and 
bacon  very  thin;  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 


GAME. 

Game  is  young  if  the  bones  of  the  legs  and  wings  break  easily,  and  if  the  skin 
is  tender. 

All  water  birds  should  be  eaten  as  fresh  as  possible,  as  their  flesh  is  oily,  and 
soon  becomes  rank.  If  there  is  a  large  quantity  of  game  on  hand  at  one  time,  it 
will  be  well  to  cook  the  young  game  first,  and  the  old,  1  or  2  days  later,  as  old  birds 
will  keep  longer  than  young  ones.  Old  birds  also  need  longer  cooking.  Young 
game  cooks  rather  more  quickly  than  poultry,  and  the  flavor  is  best  retained  by 
cooking  it  plainly.  The  rule  is,  that  while  dark-meatedgame  may  be  rare,  white- 
meated  game  should  be  well  done. 

Game,  like  all  meat,  should  not  be  washed,  unless  it  is  really  needed,  and 
should  never  be  left  in  the  water,  because,  as  we  have  elsewhere  explained,  the 
water  will  draw  out  the  juices.  Game  drawn  with  care  only  needs  wiping.  It  is 
best  to  dry-pick  birds,  using  care,  and  taking  off  all  the  feathers  which  can  be 
readily  removed;  then  plunge  into  boiling  water,  skin,  draw,  and  finally  wipe 
carefully.  Wild  ducks,  and  geese,  however,  are  so  oily  that  they  should  be 
washed  with  warm  water  and  soap,  as  anything  less  effectual  will  not  cleanse 
them  properly.  The  objectionable  flavor  of  wild  ducks  comes  from  the  oil  in  the 
skin;  if  it  is  very  strong,  they  can  be  skinned;  then  spread  with  butter,  dredge 
thickly  with  flour,  and  put  in  a  very  quick  oven  to  roast. 

The  directions  for  "drawing"  and  "trussing"  given  for  poultry,  will  apply 
equally  well  for  wild  fowls. 

It  is  sometimes  desired  to  overcome  the  wild  flavor  in  the  larger  birds,  as  it  is 
disliked  by  some  people.  There  are  various  ways  to  do  this:  (1)  Take  a  lemon, 
take  off  the  peel,  and  lay  it  inside;  renew  it  every  10  or  12  hours,  and  continue 
for  1  or  2  days.  From  most  game  this  will  absorb  the  unpleasant  flavors.  (Prob- 
ably the  best  plan.)  (2)  Ducks,  geese,  prairie  chickens,  pheasants,  etc.,  may  lie  for 
10  or  12  hours  in  salt  and  water.  (3)  They  may  be  put  in  soda  and  water  for  2  or  3 
hours.    (4)    Parboil  in  water  containing  1  or  2  onions. 

Most  game  is  kept  as  long  as  it  can  be  without  becoming  tainted,  as  it  is 
thought  the  flavor  is  thereby  developed.  If  it  does  become  slightly  tainted,  it 
should  at  once  be  picked  clean  and  put  into  milk  for  a  full  day  (24  hours)  keep- 
ing it  entirely  covered;  this  will  sweeten  it,  and  it  should  be  cooked  at  once. 

Game  is  less  fat  than  butcher's  meat,  and  is  generally  considered  very  nour- 
ishing; it  is  easy  of  digestion  and  is  valued  in  the  sickroom.  This  does  not  apply 
to  wild  fowl,  however,  which  have  close,  firm,  and  rather  oily  flesh,  and  are,  there- 
fore, unsuited  to  weak  stomachs. 

The  garnishes  for  the  larger  game,  like  wild  ducks,  etc.,  are  parsley,  slices  of 
orange  or  lemon,  cranberry  or  apple  sauce;  while  for  small  game,  the  most  com- 
mon are  parsley,  toast,  currant  jelly,  and  slices  of  lemon.  Currant,  grape,  or  any 
acid  jelly,  is  suitable  to  serve  with  game. 

Cranes,  Plovers,  Snipes,  Herons,  Prairie  Chickens,  Quails,  Pigeons,  Wood- 
cocks, and  all  small  game,  are  cooked  in  much  the  same  way  as  spring  or  broiler 
chicken — that  is,  if  the  game  is  young,  which  will  be  known  by  the  tenderness  of 
the  bones,  and  the  freshness  of  the  feet.  They  can  be  broiled,  fricasseed,  stewed, 
etc.,  in  the  same  manner  as  poultry.  Old  game  should  be  parboiled  before  roast- 
ing, as  that  is  the  better  way  of  cooking  old  game  or  poultry. 

Black-bird  Pie. — Take  1  doz.  black-birds,  reed-birds  or  other  small  game;  skin 
and  draw  them,  cutting  off  the  heads  and  feet.  Put  a  bit  of  bread,  buttered, 
peppered,  and  salted,  into  the  body  of  each  bird;  place  them  in  a  pudding-dish 
with  thin  slices  of  cold,  boiled,  fat  salt  pork;  add  a  little  cold  water,  cover  them 
with  a  rich  pie  crust  *%  inch  thick,  and  bake  thoroughly  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Wild  Back. — Pick  the  ducks  carefully,  and  thoroughly  singe  off  the  down, 


128  MEATS. 

then  rub  them  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Split  them  open  down  the  back,  wash  clean, 
and  dry  them  with  a  cloth;  pound  flat  with  the  potato-masher,  or  rolling-pin,  and 
broil;  turn  often  on  the  fire,  which  must  be  clear  and  bright.  Have  a  little  wisp, 
made  of  a  bit  of  linen,  tied  on  a  clean  stick,  and  rub  them  with  melted  butter 
every  time  you  turn  them.  Serve  hot.  Canvas-bach  ducks  should  be  served  on 
hot  plates,  and  eaten  as  soon  as  possible  after  being  taken  from  the  fire.  Serve 
with  celery  mayonnaise. 

Grouse. — Cook  same  as  "Prairie  Chicken."  Or  the  breast  and  legs  can  be 
larded;  then  rub  with  butter,  sprinkle  on  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
roast  in  the  oven.    A  bread  sauce  is  best  served  with  it. 

Partridges. — Boned.— Bone  the  birds,  and  lard  with  thin  slices  of  salt  pork; 
stuff  with  oysters,  roll  up  and  tie;  place  in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  little  hot  water 
and  butter,  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  well  browned,  basting  often. 
Serve  with  mushroom  sauce  and  mashed  potatoes,  and  garnish  with  slices  of 
lemon  and  parsley. 

Roast  Partridges. — Pick,  draw,  and  wipe  clean;  then  fill  with  turkey  dressing; 
truss  them  in  shape  and  put  in  the  dripping-pan  with  a  little  water;  lay  on  the 
birds,  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork.  Roast  about  an  hour,  basting  often;  when 
done,  thicken  the  water  in  the  pan,  add  more  seasoning  if  needed,  place  the 
partridges  on  a  hot  platter,  and  pour  the  gravy  around,  them,  or  send  it  to  the 
table  in  the  gravy  boat,  with  a  garnish  of  parsley  around  the  birds  on  the 
platter. 

Pigeons. — Roast. — These  to  be  good  should  be  cooked  soon  after  being  killed, 
and  should  be  dressed  and  drawn  immediately.  Wash  them  thoroughly  and  wipe 
them  dry;  spread  a  lump  of  butter  on  a  bit  of  bread  and  place  it  in  the.  cavity  of 
each  bird;  truss  them  into  shape,  cover  the  bottom  of  the  baking-pan  with  very 
thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  place  the  pigeons  in  the  pan  with  the  backs  down,  and 
put  a  little  water  in  the  pan;  roast  in  a  hot  oven  until  they  are  done,  and  of  a  nice 
brown  color;  they  should  be  basted  often.  Garnish  the  pigeons  with  the  bits  of 
pork,  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley.  Make  a  gravy  in  the  pan,  and  send  it  to  the 
table  in  a  gravy  boat,  with  the  pigeons.  The  juice  of  a  lemon  dripped  over  the 
birds  after  they  are  on  the  platter  adds  to  their  delicacy. 

Pigeon  Pie. — Line  a  pie  dish  with  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon,  place  on  this  the 
pigeons  cut  in  quarters,  3  pigeons  to  a  pie.  Fill  the  interstices  with  veal  taken 
from  the  loin  or  leg  (of  course  uncooked);  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pro- 
ceed as  to  the  crust  in  the  same  way  as  for  other  meat  pies. 

Squabs  (young  pigeons).— Dress  in  the  same  manner  as  for  "broiler"  chicken; 
split  down  the  back,  pound  flat  with  the  rolling-pin,  butter  the  broiling-iron,  and 
cook  over  clear  coals  until  a  delicate  brown,  turning  often.  Sprinkle  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper  when  done,  and  spread  with  butter,  and  keep  hot  on  the  top  shelf 
of  the  oven  until  ready  to  set  on  the  table. 

Plover. — Fricassee. — Dress,  wash,  clean,  and  put  to  stew  in  just  water  to 
cover  them;  boil  slowly  for  an  hour,  then  add  a  little  salt,  and  boil  the  water  out 
rapidly,  to  brown  the  birds  in  the  kettle;  watch  that  they  do  not  burn.  Take  out, 
put  bits  of  butter  on  the  birds  and  keep  hot.  Make  a  brown  gravy  in  the  kettle, 
pour  over  the  birds,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Fried  Plover. — Skin  the  birds,  reserving  only  the  breast  and  legs — the 
remainder  can  go  into  the  soup-kettle — wash  and  wipe  them  dry;  roll  in  flour  or 
bread  crumbs,  put  in  a  hot,  well  buttered  frying-pan,  and  fry  until  nicely  browned 


MEATS.  129 

on  both  sides;  place  on  a  hot  platter,  spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  and  keep  the  platter  hot  while  making  a  gravy.  Add 
more  butter  for  the  gravy,  to  that  in  the  pan,  and  %  pint  of  hot  water.  Mix  a 
little  cold  water  with  a  tablespoon  of  corn-starch,  stir  rapidly  until  it  thickens, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  it  over  the  birds.  -Serve  with  wild  grape 
jelly,  or  some  nice  meat  sauce. 

Prairie  Chicken. — Cut  out  the  breasts,  cut  each  one  in  two,  rub  with  butter, 
broil,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  on  buttered  toast;  garnish  with 
currant  jelly.  If  for  breakfast,  serve  on  fried  mush.  The  balance,  except  the 
breast,  is  apt  to  be  tough,  and  is  best  if  first  parboiled;  then  rub  with  butter  and 
broil  as  above.  They  are  often  split  open  at  the  back,  rubbed  with  butter  and 
broiled,  but  we  think  the  above  the  best  way. 

Quail. — Broiled. — Pick,  draw,  and  split  down  the  back,  then  wash  and  wipe 
dry;  pound  flat  with  the  rolling-pin,  or  a  flat-iron  covered  with  a  cloth;  broil 
slowly,  and  baste  often  with  butter.  Serve  on  toasted  slices  of  bread,  richly 
buttered. 

Quail  Pie. — Take  8  or  10  quails,  cut  each  in  two,  and  lay  in  salt  water  for  2  hours; 
then  put  them  in  a  sauce-pan  with  1  large  onion,  2  chili  peppers,  some  parsley, 
cut  fine,  salt  and  black  pepper;  cover  with  water,  and  stew  until  tender;  then 
add  %  lb.  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  and  simmer  a  few  minutes;  season  with  a 
little  lemon  juice  and  mushroom  catsup.  Place  in  a  pan,  cover  with  puff  paste, 
and  bake. 

Small  Birds.— A  method  of  treating  small  birds  which  is  liked  by  many,  is  to 
halve  sweet  potatoes  lengthwise,  scoop  out  a  depression  large  enough  to  receive 
half  a  bird,  or  if  very  small,  a  whole  one.  Put  in  the  dressed  bird,  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  butter,  put  on  the  other  half  of  the  potato,  tie  it,  and  bake  till 
soft.  Serve  in  the  potatoes;  garnish  with  a  sprig  of  green  leaf.  Reed-birds,  etc., 
are  nice  this  way.  Small  birds  can  also  be  fried  in  hot  fat,  or  roasted,  broiled  or 
stewed. 

Snipe. — Treat  the  same  as  Woodcocks. 

Woodcock. — Pick  the  birds,  draw  the  trail,  and  wipe  clean.  Tie  the  legs,  re- 
move the  skin  from  the  head,  turn  the  head  under  the  wing  and  tie,  also  tying  a 
thin  slice  of  bacon  on  the  breast.  Fry  in  hot  lard  2  or  3  minutes.  Season,  and 
serve  on  toast,  with  currant  jelly.  If  preferred,  it  can  be  prepared  the  same  way 
and  roasted  in  the  oven. 

Salmis  of  Woodcock. — This  is  made  of  cold  roast  woodcock.  Cut  the  birds 
into  small  neat  pieces  to  serve,  and  keep  the  remainder — all  the  bones  and  trim- 
mings— for  the  soup-kettle.  Simmer  until  the  meat  comes  off  the  bones,  with 
herbs,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Add  also  any  gravy  left  from  the  day  before. 
Strain  through  a  colander,  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Thicken  with  a  little  corn- 
starch and  put  in  the  pieces  of  woodcock  to  get  hot  in  the  soup.  There  should 
be  about  enough  of  the' soup  for  a  plenty  of  good  gravy.  Croutons,  or  strips  of 
toasted  bread  can  be  laid  around  the  edge  of  the  platter,  with  sprigs  of  parsley  or 
chives. 

Babbits. — Jack-rabbit  is  the  term  usually  applied  to  the  wild  rabbit  of  the 
United  States.  They  are  plentiful  in  some  parts  of  the  country,  and  in  the  fall, 
when  the  boys  bring  them  in  from  gunning  excursions,  they  are  fat  and  most 
delicious,  cooked  in  various  ways,  either  roasted,  fried  or  boiled,  and  they  make  a 
fine  soup  or  pot-pie.  If  the  bones  are  strong  and  the  skin  tough,  they  are  old, 
9 


130  MEATS. 

and  are  better  boiled  whole  and  served  with  white  or  cream  sauce.  If  young,  the 
Bkin  is  tender  and  the  ears  tear  easily,  in  which  case  they  are  nice  cut  in  pieces, 
pounded  flat  and  broiled  over  a  clear  fire  in  the  same  way  as  chickens  are  broiled. 
They  can  be  roasted  whole,  if  young,  filled  with  a  bread  and  butter  dressing,  with 
a  large  slice  of  fat  salt  pork  spread  over  the  rabbit,  and  it  should  be  frequently 
basted.  If  large,  it  should  be  in  the  hot  oven  from  1%  to  2  hours,  and  well  browned, 
and  served  with  a  brown  gravy  made  in  the  dripping-pan  after  the  meat  is  put  on 
the  platter. 

Squirrels. — The  old  ones  may  be  known  by  their  greater  size,  and  by  the 
greater  strength  of  the  bones.  After  dressing  and  cleaning,  they  are  cut  in  quar- 
ters; those  that  are  old  are  better  stewed.  Put  them  over  the  fire  in  a  kettle, 
with  water  enough  to  cover  them;  stew  gently  until  the  meat  starts  from  the 
bones,  then  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  herbs,  if  liked;  add  a  little  corn-starch 
for  thickening,  with  a  lump  of  butter.  The  young  squirrels  can  be  cut  in  quar- 
ters, and  either  broiled  or  fried,  as  you  would  chickens. 

Squirrel  Pie. — Clean,  and  soak  %  hour  in  salt  water;  take  out  and  stew  with 
a  little  salt  pork  until  half  done.  Line  the  sides  of  the  dish  with  pastry,  lay  in 
the  squirrel,  put  in  the  gravy,  put  on  an  upper  crust,  cut  a  cross  in  it  to  let  out 
the  steam  and  gases,  and  bake. 

Buffalo  and  Bear. — Bear  and  buffalo  meat  is  either  baked,  boiled,  fried  or 
broiled,  in  the  same  ways  as  beef. 

Opossums  and  Raccoons. — Opossums,  raccoons  and  woodchucks,  are  stewed  or 
baked,  and  served  after  the  manner  of  pigs'  meat,  and  are  considered  a  delicacy 
by  hunters.  Old  animals  can  be  parboiled  before  cooking — with  young  ones  it  is 
not  necessary. 

Venison. — Venison  is  easily  digested.  As  the  hairs  often  cling  to  the  meat,  it 
should  be  cleaned  carefully  before  cooking.  The  best  cuts  for  steaks  or  roasting 
come  from  the  loin  or  saddle.  The  rules  given  for  cooking  beef  or  mutton  apply 
equally  to  venison.  Stew  the  tougher  parts.  Currant  jelly  is  considered  the  best 
thing  to  serve  with  venison,  or  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Venison  Steaks. — Cut  venison  steaks  in  suitable  pieces  for  serving;  heat  %  of 
a  lb.  of  butter  in  your  frying-pan;  season  the  steak  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  dip 
them  in  wheat  flour  or  rolled  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown  on  both 
sides  alike.  When  done,  set  them  in  the  oven  with  a  tin  over,  to  keep  them 
warm,  while  you  prepare  gravy,  as  follows:  Dredge  a  large  tablespoon  of  flour 
into  the  butter  in  the  pan,  and  stir  until  it  is  brown,  without  burning;  put  in  a 
teacup  of  boiling  water,  with  a  teaspoon  of  currant  jelly  dissolved  into  it.  Stir 
briskly  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  the  gravy  over  the  meat  and  serve  at  once. 


HASH   AND  CROQUETTES. 

The  dinner  table  should  be  liberally  supplied  with  both  meat  and  vegetables, 
as  it  is  the  principal  meal  of  the  day.  This  should  be  done  so  that  each  member 
of  the  family  can  be  generously  helped,  remembering  that  a  family  stinted  in 
food,  no  matter  how  finely  dressed,  or  housed,  can  never  be  in  a  healthful  condi- 
tion; it  also  provides  for  unexpected  guests.  The  remainder  of  the  dinner,  if  at 
noon,  can  be  sliced  cold,  and  served  with  the  supper  if  needed,  or  minced  the  next 
morning  for  hash.  Hash  is  also  a  fine  accompaniment  on  the  supper  table  in 
cold  weather,  when  hungry  children  come  from  school.  The  meat  for  dinner 
need  not  be  of  the  most  expensive  joints,  for  the  cheaper  cuts  are  quite  as  nutri- 
tious, and,  if  properly  cooked,  can  be  made  very  palatable. 

HASH  AND  MINCED  MEATS. 

Under  this  head  are  included  recipes  for  mincing  and  re-warming  in  an 
appetizing  manner,  cold  meat  of  all  kinds,  fish,  etc.,  etc.  This  minced  meat  is 
usually  combined  with  vegetables,  or  bread,  either  in  crumbs,  or  toasted  slices, 
and  forms  a  series  of  dishes,  both  economical  and  agreeable  to  the  palate.  The 
French  term  Salmis  {Salmy  by  foreign  cooks)  is  used  more  particularly  to  desig- 
nate minced  game  re-warmed  in  various  ways,  but  in  plain  English  it  is  simply 
hash.  In  making  hash,  and  in  re-warming  any  kind  of  cold  meat,  do  not  con- 
found the  term  re- warming  with  re-cooking;  to  re-cook  meat  is  to  harden  it,  and 
the  secret  of  good  hash  is  to  make  it  just  piping  hot,  and  no  more. 

Hash. — One  of  the  most  common  forms  in  which  cold  potatoes  and  meat  left 
from  yesterday's  meal  appears,  is — hash.  Not  1  person  in  10  knows  how  to  put  it 
together  appetizingly.  Chop  fine  such  bits  of  cold  meat  as  you  may  have,  add  a 
double  quantity  of  potato,  chopped  fine  also,  mix  well,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste;  8  minutes  before  you  wish  to  serve  the  dish,  melt  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  in  a  spider,  and,  when  hissing  hot,  put  in  the  hash  and  press  it  down  well 
and  evenly  all  around.  At  the  end  of  the  time  specified,  have  a  heated  plate 
ready,  turn  it  over  the  spider,  tip  the  latter  upside  down  with  the  plate 
beneath,  and  send  your  steaming  "hash  cake"  to  the  table.  This  "hash"  can  be 
varied  indefinitely.  Some  prefer  a  larger  portion  of  meat,  others  not  so  much. 
Occasionally  a  flavoring  of  chopped  onion  may  be  added,  or  a  spoonful  of  any 
good  catsup  or  sauce  to  give  piquancy.  And  sometimes  for  a  change,  mix  as 
directed,  flour  your  hands  well  and  form  into  balls,  and  fry  light  brown  in  plenty 
of  hot  lard. 

Do  not  stir  hash  while  it  is  heating,  for  that  inclines  it  to  stick  to  the  pan,  and 
it  also  makes  the  hash  salvey.  The  very  best  hash  is  made  with  hot  baked 
potatoes,  %  potato  to  %  °i  finely  chopped  meat. 

Baked  Hash. — Chop  finely  the  remnants  of  cold  meat  left  from  dinner,  chop 
cold  potatoes  and  add — there  should  be  twice  as  much  potato  as  meat.  If  there 
are  not  enough  of  cold  potatoes  for  this  proportion,  dip  2  slices  of  bread  in  cold 
milk  or  water,  and  chop;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  herbs,  if  liked,  with  a 
bit  of  sliced  onion.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  in  the  baking-pan, 
put  the  hash  well  mixed  in  the  pan  and  cover  tightly  with  a  plate;  bake  3^  hour, 
and  turn  out  in  a  cake  on  a  hot  dish.  If  it  is  covered  with  a  white  pie-plate,  that 
is  the  best  dish  to  serve  it  on,  as  it  is  already  hot.  Economical  and  good.  Serve 
with  pickles. 

Corned-beef  Hash. — If  the  family  is  large,  in  addition  to  the  daily  dinner,  it  is 

(131)      ■ 


132  HASH  AND  CROQUETTES. 

well  to  boil  a  piece  of  corned-beef  every  2  or  3  days  and  have  this  hash  every  day 
or  every  other  day,  either  for  supper  or  breakfast,  as  it  is  economical  and  liked  by 
most  people.  Notwithstanding  the  threadbare  jokes  about  "hash-mills,"  "hash- 
factories,"  "mysteries,"  etc.,  people  still  like  a  good  dish  of  hash  when  they 
have  "confidence  in  the  cook."  Cook  the  beef  slowly  until  done;  let  it  get  cold  in 
the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  then  take  it  out,  wipe  it  dry,  and  it  is  ready  to  chop. 
Use  the  fat  and  lean  together,  and  the  cold  fat  from  the  top  of  the  kettle  to  heat 
with  the  hash.  Have  the  potatoes  quite  cold,  or  they  will  stick  to  the  chopping 
knife.  A  lady  with  a  large  family  of  fashionable  boarders,  told  the  writer  that 
this  dish  was  often  called  for  at  her  table. 

French  Hash. — Take  cold  bits  of  meat  left  from  a  roast  of  beef,  chicken  or 
cold  turkey,  finely  minced,  add  gravy  enough  to  make  moist;  when  quite  hot, 
place  the  mixture  over  toast.    This  is  a  very  nice  breakfast  dish. 

Ham  Hash. — Take  equal  parts  of  potato,  boiled  ham  and  bread,  chopped  fine, 
and  cooked  in  hot  fat  left  from  frying  ham;  cook  about  10  minutes,  and  season 
with  pepper  when  it  is  ready  to  be  dished. 

Scotch  Hash. — Chop  raw  beef  very  fine;  add  butter  about  the  size  of  an  egg, 
pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  parsley;  cover  with  water,  stew  15  minutes,  keeping  it 
covered.    Pour  it  over  slices  of  toasted  bread. 

Turkey  Hash. — Mince  the  remnants  of  turkey  left  from  a  previous  dinner. 
Boil  the  bones  in  a  quart  of  water  until  the  quart  is  reduced  to  a  pint;  then  strain, 
add  turkey  gravy  if  you  have  it,  a  bit  of  butter  if  the  turkey  is  not  fat,  with  a 
seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper;  if  there  is  dressing  left,  boil  it  in  with  the  bones. 
Dredge  a  little  flour  over  the  minced  turkey,  put  it  in  the  hot  gravy  and  let  it 
just  come  to  boiling  heat.    Serve  in  a  hot  dish  on  slices  of  toasted  bread. 

Veal  Hash. — Chop  %  Pmt  of  fricasseed  veal  (do  not  make  it  as  fine  as  for  cro- 
quettes); put  veal  fat,  beef  dripping  or  butter,  in  the  stew-pan  with  the  meat;  if 
you  have  no  broth  or  gravy,  add  hot  water  enough  to  wet  the  meat.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  on  a  little  flour,  stir  all  together,  put  in  a  hot  dish, 
with  slices  of  toasted  bread  or  crackers  in  the  bottom,  and  send  to  the  table  with 
baked  potatoes. 

Vegetable  Hash. — Take  equal  parts  of  boiled  vegetables,  corned-beef,  and  salt 
pork,  chopped  together;  this  makes  a  fine  hash.  When  you  have  a  boiled  dinner, 
always  have  enough  left  to  make  hash  for  breakfast  the  next  morning.  The 
vegetables  used,  are  potatoes,  turnips,  cabbage,  beets,  and  parsnips  or  carrots; 
put  the  fat  from  the  kettle  in  which  the  dinner  was  boiled,  in  a  large  frying- 
pan,  and  let  it  melt;  then  put  in  the  hash,  smooth  it  down,  put  a  pie-plate  over 
it  to  keep  in  the  steam,  set  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  15  or  20  minutes  until 
thoroughly  heated,  and  dish  it  in  the  hot  plate  which  covered  it.  Vegetable 
hash  is  often  made  without  meat,  and  is  much  liked  by  most  people. 

Hash  Pie. — Take  any  kind  of  cold  meat  and  chop  it  finely;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  meat,  then  crumbs,  until 
the  dish  is  full.    Make  a  gravy,  pour  it  over,  and  bake. 

Scrapple. — This  can  be  made  of  odds  and  ends  of  fresh  meat  such  as  would  be 
used  for  soups — pigs'  heads  and  feet,  beef  shanks  and  beef  trimmings.  Boil  the 
meat  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  it  well,  until  the  meat  separates  from  the 
bones;  then  take  it  up,  remove  the  bones,  cut,  or  chop  the  meat  finely,  and  return 
it  to  the  broth;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  herbs,  if  liked.  Let  it  boil  up  again  and 
thicken  it  with  cornmeai  to  make  a  stiff  mush,  and  cook  it  thoroughly.    Put  it 


I 


HASH  AND  CROQUETTES.  133 

in  bread-pans  to  solidify,  and,  when  cold,  cut  off  in  slices  and  fry  in  salt  pork  fat, 
dripping,  or  sausage  fat.  This  is  an  inexpensive  dish,  and  excellent  in  cold 
weather,  for  supper  or  breakfast.  Finely  minced  remnants  of  any  kind  of  cold 
meats,  with  the  gravy,  can  be  utilized  in  the  above  manner,  instead  of  the  fresh 
meat. 

PILAFF. 

1  onion.  1  pint  tomatoes.  1  teacup  rice. 

2  cups  minced  cold  meat.  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  cut  the  onion  in,  then  fry  to  a  delicate 
brown;  add  the  rice,  and  brown  that  in  the  butter,  taking  care  not  to  let  it  scorch. 
Next  add  the  tomatoes  and  1  pint  of  hot  water;  cover  and  cook  until  the  rice  is 
done,  adding  more  water  if  needed,  but  it  should  not  be  watery  when  done.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne,  and  curry  powder  if  liked;  then  put  in  the  chopped 
meat,  stir  well,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 


CROQUETTES. 

These  are  somewhat  allied  to  hash,  as  they  are  only  elaborate  dishes  made  of 
finely  cut  meats,  or  with  fish,  oysters,  vegetables,  rice,  etc.,  or  of  several  of  these 
ingredients  combined.  They  are  formed  into  rolls  or  ovals,  and  usually  fried  in 
smoking  hot  fat,  after  they  are  egged  and  bread-crumbed.  Drain  on  paper,  or  a 
wire  sieve,  paper  being  best.  The  mixture  may  be  stiffened  by  working  in  a  little 
fine  cracker  dust,  if  too  soft  to  roll  well,  but  it  is  apt  to  be  made  too  stiff  if  any 
uncooked  material  like  flour  is  added. 

Baked  Croquettes.— Take  2  cups  finely  chopped  veal,  %  cup  dry  breadcrumbs, 
1  egg,  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  a  pinch  of  mace;  form  into 
croquettes,  roll  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Brain  Croquettes. — Put  2  oz.  of  butter  or  beef  drippings  into  a  sauce-pan  and 
set  on  the  stove;  when  the  butter  has  melted,  add  1  small  onion  chopped  fine;  let 
it  brown,  then  add  calf's  brains  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  small  slice  of  bread  first 
soaked  in  cold  water  and  squeezed  dry,  a  little  thyme,  minced  parsley,  %  nutmeg 
grated,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  heat  these  all  well,  then  remove  from 
the  stove  and  add  %  cup  of  milk  and  1  egg,  well  beaten.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  form  into  croquettes,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  roll 
in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown  in  hot  fat. 

Chicken  Croquettes.  —To  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  chicken,  finely  minced,  add  1 
cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  add  a  little 
cream  if  not  moist  enough — it  should  be  as  soft  as  can  be,  and  keep  its  shape 
after  being  molded.  Have  ready  on  the  fire  a  kettle  of  hot  fat;  flour  the  hands 
and  make  the  croquettes  into  rolls  a  little  larger  than  English  walnuts;  dip  them 
in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs;  place  in  a  wire  basket  and  fry  in  the 
hot  lard  until  a  golden  brown;  drain  on  a  wire  sieve,  then  keep  them  hot  until 
time  to  serve. 

Chicken  Croquettes,  No.  2. — Take  1  cup  finely  chopped  chicken,  1  cup  finely 
sifted  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  white  pepper,  %  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley,  and  %  CUP  stock,  made  by  boiling  the  bones  of  the  chicken;  heat 
all  together,  and  then  stir  in  1  beaten  egg.  When  cold,  form  into  croquettes,  roll 
each  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again.  Put  them 
carefully  into  the  frying-basket,  and  plunge  it  into  smoking  hot  fat  for  1  or  2 
minutes. 


134  HASH  AND  CROQUETTES. 

Chicken  and  Oyster  Croquettes. — Take  1  cup  of  cold  chicken,  chopped  fine, 

1  saucer  of  cold,  escaloped  oysters,  also  chopped,  %  cup  sifted  bread  crumbs, 
pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace,  and  1  egg,  beaten  light;  add  a  little  broth  made  of  the 
bones  of  the  chicken  boiled  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Have  the  mix- 
ture as  soft  as  you  can  handle  it,  form  into  long  rolls  as  large  as  a  man's  finger, 
roll  in  sifted  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.    Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Fish  Croquettes. — Remnants  of  any  cold  fish,  egg,  bread  crumbs,  cayenne,  salt, 
and  fat  for  frying  are  needed  for  these.  Flake  the  fish  finely,  season  to  taste,  add 
an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs;  make  a  stiff  paste  with  beaten  egg;  form 
into  round  balls  about  an  inch  thick  and  3  or  4  inches  long,  and  fry  them  a  golden 
brown  in  hot  lard.     Serve  on  a  napkin,  to  absorb  all  the  superflous  fat. 

Hominy  Croquettes. — Soak  1  cup  hominy  in  water  all  night,  and  the  next 
morning  boil  it  till  tender  in  1  quart  milk;  let  it  cool,  add  1  oz.  butter,  1  egg,  and 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  cayenne.  When  cold,  shape  it  in  balls,  egg  and 
bread-crumb  each,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.     Serve  with  tomato  or  onion  sauce. 

Lobster  Croquettes. — Use  the  fresh  or  canned  lobster;  strain  off  all  the  liquor 
and  chop  fine.  Take  2  slices  of  bread,  soak  in  water,  remove  the  crust,  squeeze 
dry,  and  mix  with  the  lobster;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
mix  to  a  paste  with  a  well  beaten  egg.  Form  into  cakes,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  sifted  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Oyster  Croquettes. — Take  the  oysters,  beard  them  and  chop  fine,  and  mix  into 
a  firm  paste  with  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  seasoned  with 
parsley,  sweet  marjoram,  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  into  finger-shaped  pieces,  and  fry 
a  delicate  color.    Strain  and  serve  piled  high  on  a  dish,  garnished  with  parsley. 

Potato  Croquettes. — Take  2  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes,  2  eggs,  salt  to  taste,  % 
cup  fine  cracker  crumbs;  mix  well,  and  roll  on  the  kneading  board  with  the  hands 
in  round  cakes  or  long  ones;  scatter  a  little  fine  cracker  dust  on  the  board;  egg 
and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  until  brown  in  smoking  hot  lard. 

Rice  Croquettes.  — Take  J^j  cup  rice,  boil  until  soft,  let  it  cool  and  beat  in  2 
eggs,  2  spoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  mold  into  balls,  egg  and  bread-crumb,  and 
fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Rice  and  Chicken  Croquettes. — Take  1  cup  cold  chopped  chicken,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  1  cup  boiled  rice;  heat  together  on  a  teakettle,  pail  or 
double  boiler,  and  if  the  mixture  seems  dry,  add  a  little  milk;  when  hot,  stir  in  1 
egg,  beaten  light,  and  take  from  the  fire  when  thoroughly  mixed.  When  cold, 
shape  into  balls,  egg  and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Veal  Croquettes.— Take  1  heaping  cup  of  cold  chopped  veal,  1  cup  fine,  dry 
bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  a  pinch  each  of  sage  and  red  pepper, 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice;  moisten  with  sweet  milk,  heat  it,  and  add  1  egg,  well 
beaten;  use  milk  enough  to  make  it  as  soft  as  you  can  handle  when  it  is  cold.  When 
cold,  form  it  into  croquettes,  egg  and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Kromeskies. — Kromeskies  are  croquettes  cooked  in  the  Russian  manner;  they 
are  made  as  follows:  Mince  the  remains  of  any  cold  meat,  fish,  poultry,  or  shell- 
fish, as  for  croquettes;  season  them  nicely,  and  shape  like  a  cork.  Instead  of 
dipping  them  in  egg,  and  afterwards  in  bread  crumbs,  cut  some  slices  of  cold  fat 
bacon  (boiled)  as  thin  as  writing  paper;  wrap  the  croquettes  in  these,  dip  each  one 
in  a  little  frying  batter,  fry  them  in  hot  clarified  fat,  and  when  brown  and  crisp, 
arrange  neatly  on  a  hot  dish;  garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  immediately. 
Kromeskies  may  be  made  according  to  any  of  the  recipes  given  for  croquettes,  and 
should  be  cooked  as  above. 


HASH  AND  CROQUETTES.  135 

Scotch  Collops. — Cut  away  the  fat  and  any  skinny  portions  there  may  be  from 
about  1%  lbs.  of  steak,  and  mince  it  finely,  seasoning  it  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
An  onion  can  be  added,  if  liked,  but  this  is  a  matter  of  taste.  Melt  a  little  butter 
in  a  stew-pan,  put  in  the  mince,  and  stir  it  frequently  to  keep  it  from  getting  into 
lumps.  In  about  8  minutes,  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it,  and  pour  upon  it  a  little 
stock,  boiling  hot.  Let  it  simmer  gently  a  minute  or  two  longer,  and  serve  very 
hot.  Three-cornered  pieces  of  toasted  bread  may  be  put  around  the  dish  as  a 
garnish. 

Kouftas  {An  Indian  Dish).—  Chop  cold  meat  finely,  season  it  well  with 
pepper,  salt  and  spice,  make  it  into  a  paste  with  the  yolk  of  egg,  form  it  into 
cakes,  and  fry  it  brown  in  butter. 


EGGS. 

The  eggs  of  different  birds  vary  much  in  size  and  color.  Those  of  the 
ostrich  are  largest.  They  are  said  to  be  pleasant  in  taste,  and  to  keep  longer 
than  hens'  eggs.  The  eggs  of  the  goose  are  large,  but  well  flavored,  while  turkey 
eggs  are  almost  as  mild  as  hens'  eggs.  Ducks'  eggs  have  a  rich  flavor,  and  the 
albumen  is  slightly  transparent,  or  bluish  when  set  by  boiling.  Guinea  fowls' 
eggs  are  smaller  and  more  delicate  than  those  of  the  hen.  The  eggs  of  wild  fowl 
generally  partake  somewhat  of  the  flavor  of  the  bird  they  belong  to.  Those  of 
sea-fowl  have  a  fishy  taste  more  or  less  strong.  The  eggs  of  the  turtle  consist  of 
yolk  only,  without  shell,  and  are  delicious. 

Hens'  eggs  are  the  ones  principally  used,  and  when  raw  they  weigh  2  to  2%  oz. 
The  white  of  an  egg  is  principally  albumen,  while  the  yolk  contains  most  of  the 
fat  found  in  the  egg,  and  most  of  the  mineral  matters,  the  latter  being  principally 
sulphur  and  phosphate  of  lime.  The  following  table  will  show  the  percentage  of 
the  different  elements  in  an  egg. 


Water. 

Albumenoids. 

Fats. 

Mineral  Matters. 

Eggs  (whole) 
The  white 
The  yolk 

72.0 
85.0 
53.5 

14.0 
12.0 
15.0 

13.0 

2.0 
30.0 

1.0 
0.5 
1.5 

The  potential  energy  is  about  720  Calories  to  the  lb.  It  will  be  seen  that 
eggs  are  very  nutritious.  They  contain  rather  more  albumenoids  and  less  fat 
than  an  equal  weight  of  butcher's  meat.  It  will  be  noticed,  however,  that  they 
are  deficient  in  the  carbohydrates,  and  hence  bread,  potatoes,  rice,  or  other 
starchy  foods,  should  be  eaten  with  them  to  supply  the  elements  they  lack.  It 
will  be  wise  to  use  eggs  freely,  as  they  are  nutriment  in  its  most  portable  and 
concentrated  form,  and  they  are  palatable  to  all  classes  of  people.  They  are 
strengthening  to  consumptives  and  to  all  feeble  persons,  and  young  children. 
They  are  medicine  as  well  as  food.  The  white  of  an  egg  is  a  soothing  application 
for  a  burn,  as  it  coats  it  over  and  excludes  the  air,  and  it  is  an  antidote  for 
various  poisons  like  corrosive  sublimate,  creosote  and  acids,  as  these  articles  coag- 
ulate albumen,  and  if  white  of  egg  is  given  soon  after  they  enter  the  system,  it 
combines  with  them  and  protects  the  stomach. 

Children  do  not  receive  into  their  systems  a  sufficient  supply  of  lime  for  the  develop- 
ment of  bones,  if  eggs  form  a  large  part  of  their  diet,  for  the  albumen  and  vitellin  of  eggs, 
although  highly  nutritious,  and  adapted  to  the  making  of  muscle,  is  deficient  in  lime.  The 
embryo  chicken  takes  its  lime  for  the  growth  of  bone  from  the  shell  of  the  egg,  which  di- 
minishes in  thickness  day  by  day,  until  the  time  of  hatching,  when  it  becomes  so  thin  as  to 
be  easily  broken  for  the  escape  of  the  chicken.  If  the  water  supply  of  the  family  is  in  a 
limestone  formation,  children  will  get  a  sufficiency  of  lime  through  the  medium  of  water; 
but  if  the  rock  formation  is  primitive,  and  the  water  very  soft,  the  defect  may  be  remedied 
by  the  use  of  lime-water,  as  explained  in  the  chapter  on  "Invalid  Cookery.'- 

Invalids  should  never  be  given  eggs  which  are  more  than  2  or  3  days  old,  as  they  will 
then  have  begun  to  deteriorate.  The  albumen  in  an  egg  will  not  become  thick  enough 
to  beat  well  until  it  has  been  laid  about  10  hours;  for  boiling  or  poaching,  eggs  VA  day 
old  are  best.  The  philosophy  of  cooking  eggs  is  explained  in  our  article  on  the  principles 
and  processes  of  cooking  meat,  which  see. 

In  breaking  eggs,  each  one  should  be  broken  separately  into  a  cup,  and  then 
there  will  be  no  danger  that  a  bad  egg  will  spoil  other  eggs  or  materials.  Also 
be  careful  not  to  break  the  yolks,  as  that  will  spoil  them  for  poaching,  frying,  etc. 

When  putting  eggs  in  to  boil,  great  care  should  be  taken  not  to  crack  the  shell, 
as  a  portion  of  the  white  will  then  exude  inevitably,  and  it  lets  water  into  the  egg. 
When  fresh  eggs  are  dropped  into  a  large  quantity  of  boiling  water,  they  crack, 
because  the  interior,  being  full,  is  expanded  by  the  heat,  and  the  shells  give  way. 
If  the  quantity  of  water  is  small,  the  shells  do  not  crack,  because  putting  cold 
eggs  into  hot  water  lowers  its  temperature.  Stale  eggs  do  not  crack  because  the 
air  inside  is  easily  compressed.  Prick  pin-holes  in  the  large  end  of  the  shell  to 
keep  the  contents  from  oozing  out  through  the  crack,  if  an  egg  is  cracked  before 
putting  it  into  the  water. 

(136) 


EGGS.  137 

[Directions  for  purchasing,  testing  and  preserving  eggs,  are  given  in  our  articles 
on  marketing  and  on  keeping  provisions. 

Eggs  should  always  be  washed  as  soon  as  they  come  into  the  house.  Take  a 
little  cloth  and  carefully  remove  every  particle  of  soil  from  the  eggs,  and  then  the 
shells  will  be  ready  to  use  in  clarifying  coffee  or  soups. 

Coloring  and  Dyeing  Eggs. — Eggs  can  be  easily  dyed  for  Easter,  etc.  The  ani- 
line dyes  are  useful  for  the  purpose.  A  simple  plan  is  to  place  the  eggs  in  colored 
water  and  boil  them  in  it.  Mottoes,  monograms,  etc.,  may  be  produced  as  fol- 
lows: Draw  upon  the^  shell  with  simple  oil  and  a  camel's  hair  brush,  whatever 
name  or  device  it  is  wished  to  display;  then  place  it  in  the  coloring  liquid  and 
the  portions  touched  with  oil  will  remain  white,  while  the  remainder  will  be 
dyed.  In  a  similar  way  the  ground  may  be  left  white  while  the  designs  are  col- 
ored. Wrapping  them  in  calico  which  is  brightly  colored,  and  then  boiling  them 
in  lye,  will  also  color  them.  Eggs  can  be  colored  brown  by  boiling  them  in  strong 
coffee,  and  yellow  with  onion  peelings.  Cochineal  will  color  them  any  shade  from 
crimson  to  pink,  according  to  the  quantity  used.  Logwood  chips  will  color  them 
any  shade  from  port  wine  to  black,  by  varying  the  quantity  used.  They  can  be 
made  like  gold  or  silver  by  coating  them  with  painters'  size  (after  boiling  them 
hard)  and  then  rolling  them  in  a  plate  containing  gold  or  silver  dust,  such  as 
bookbinders  use,  until  they  are  entirely  covered,  or  a  name  or  Other  device  may 
be  put  on  in  this  way.  A  little  butter  or  oil  rubbed  over  the  egg,  when  it  is  suffi- 
ciently cool  to  handle,  after  being  boiled,  gives  it  a  nice,  bright  look. 

VaultingEggs. — Eggs  that  will  turn  somersaults  to  amuse  the  children  may  be 
made  as  follows:  Blow  out  the  inside;  then  hold  the  finger  over  the  hole  in  the 
small  end  of  the  shell,  and  pour  a  tablespoon  of  fine  shot  into  the  other;  then  hold 
the  finger  over  the  hole  the  shot  went  in,  reverse  the  egg,  and  pour  in  through  the 
other  hole  just  enough  melted  wax  or  mutton  suet  to  set  the  shot;  paste  a  piece 
of  paper  over  the  hole  in  the  large  end,  and  glue  a  little  worsted  tassel  in  the 
upper  hole.  Paint,  or  mark  with  ink,  a  clownish  head  and  body  on  the  egg. 
When  done,  stand  him  on  his  head  and  he  will  do  the  rest. 

Baked  Eggs. — Cut  bread  into  nice  square  pieces  and  toast.  Take  eggs  out  of 
the  shell,  keeping  yolks  whole.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  lay  the  beaten 
white  around  nicely  on  the  toast,  drop  yolks  in  center  of  white  ring,  sprinkle  on 
salt  and  put  in  hot  oven  to  bake  a  few  minutes.  When  you  take  them  out  of  the 
oven,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  on  the  toast.    A  nice  way  of  serving  eggs. 

No.  2. — Grease  a  pie-plate  well  with  butter,  break  into  it  as  many  eggs  as  it 
will  conveniently  hold,  and  bake  until  the  whites  are  fully  set  and  the  yolks 
slightly  hardened;  slip  them  on  to  a  hot  platter,  and  drop  bits  of  butter  over 
them,  with  a  sprinkling  of  salt. 

To  Boil  Eggs. — Many  fairly  good  cooks  do  not  know  how  to  boil  eggs  in  the  best 
manner.  There  are  2  good  ways.  One  is  to  put  them  into  cold  water,  gradually 
bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  as  soon  as  the  water  commences  to  boil,  they  will  be  done. 
Another  way  is  to  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  and  pour  on  boiling  water  enough 
to  cover  them;  pouring  the  hot  water  on  the  eggs  will  lower  its  temperature  a 
little;  then  let  it  simmer,  not  boil,  until  they  are  done,  keeping  the  water  about 
180°  to  185°. 

It  takes  longer  to  cook  eggs  in  this  way  than  when  they  are  put  into  boiling 
water,  but  when  done,  they  will  be  jelly-like  instead  of  tough  and  leathery,  and 
are  more  easily  digested.  The  length  of  time  to  leave  them  in  the  water  depends 
on  the  individual  taste.  An  egg  to  be  soft-boiled  should  not  be  cooked  in  boiling 
water,  for  then  the  albumen  near  the  outside  will  become  tough  before  the  yolk 
is  heated.  To  hard-boil  an  egg,  it  needs  only  to  be  left  in  the  simmering  water 
longer — say  20  to  30  minutes;  it  will  then  be  solid  but  not  leathery;  the  yolk  is 
more  mealy  when  cooked  20  minutes  than  when  cooked  10.  Eggs  for  salads,  etc., 
should  be  thus  hard-boiled,  and,  when  done,  put  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  a  few 


138  EGGS. 

minutes;  then  roll  them  on  the  table  with  the  hand  and  the  shell  will  peel  off 
easily.  Do  not  cut  up  eggs  for  garnishing  purposes  until  about  the  time  they  are 
needed,  or  the  yolk  will  dry  up  and  get  discolored. 

Breakfast  Eggs. — A  nice  breakfast  dish  is  made  by  taking  eggs  from  the 
shell  and  boiling  them  2  minutes  in  a  cup  of  sweet  cream;  then  season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

Creamed  Eggs. — Remove  the  shells  from  6  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  them  in  halves, 
and  cut  a  slice  off  the  round  end,  enough  to  make  them  stand.  Put  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan  to  melt;  add  1  tablespoon  flour,  mix  till  smooth,  add  1 
teacup  milk  or  cream,  and  stir  until  it  boils;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stand 
the  eggs  on  a  heated  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  serve. 

Curried  Eggs. — Cut  some  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves;  cut  off  the  white  end 
sufficiently  to  make  them  stand  upright;  then  pour  some  curry  sauce  around 
them,  and  serve. 

Deviled  Eggs. — Boil  1  doz.  eggs  hard;  cut  in  two,  lengthwise,  take  out  the 
yolks,  and  mash  them.  Prepare  2  teaspoons  of  mustard  by  pouring  a  very  little 
boiling  water  on,  and  mix  smooth;  add  a  small  teaspoon  of  butter,  1  of  sugar, 
a  little  salt,  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar.  Mix  some  of  the  prepared  mustard  with 
the  yolksj  and  refill  the  white  part  of  eggs  with  the  dressing.  They  make  a  nice 
garnish  for  lettuce,  and  also  a  nice  dish  for  picnics.  Other  stuffings  can  be  devised 
and  filled  into  the  whites  in  the  same  way.  Cut  them  in  two  crosswise  instead 
of  lengthwise,  if  preferred. 

Dropped  Eggs  on  Toast. — Have  ready  a  dish  of  boiling  water,  well  salted, 
break  the  eggs  into  a  saucer,  and  slide  into  the  water,  one  at  a  time.  Let  the  water 
keep  at  a  boiling  point,  but  not  bubble,  and  dip  the  water  with  a  spoon  over  the 
top  of  the  eggs.  Have  ready  some  nice  buttered  toast,  take  the  eggs  up  with  a 
skimmer,  lay  on  the  toast,  dust  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and  serve. 

Escaloped  Eggs. — Boil  1  doz.  eggs  for  25  minutes;  put  in  cold  water  and  take 
off  the  shells.  Slice  the  eggs,  and  put  them  in  a  pudding-dish  in  alternate  layers 
with  bread  crumbs,  having  a  layer  of  the  finest  crumbs  on  the  top  of  the  dish. 
Season  each  layer  of  eggs  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  if  liked, 
and  before  putting  on  the  top  layer  of  crumbs,  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  sweet  cream. 
Bake  until  browned  on  the  top.  Serve  hot.  A  good  country  dish  for  luncheon, 
tea  or  breakfast. 

Fried  Eggs. — Take  a  hot  frying-pan,  put  in  a  lump  of  butter,  let  it  melt,  and 
then  drop  in  the  eggs;  let  them  fry  3  minutes;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  season; 
lift  out  with  a  skimmer.  The  nicest  way,  however,  is  to  use  the  egg-molds  now 
made  for  the  purpose  in  various  sizes.  In  each  mold  put  a  piece  of  butter,  and 
when  melted,  drop  in  the  eggs;  to  prevent  the  under  side  from  being  over-done, 
loosen  the  edges  every  few  seconds;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  take  out 
with  a  spoon  when  done.  Sorrel,  spinach  and  green  salads  are  nice  with  them. 
If  a  few  eggs  are  fried  in  a  large  mold,  put  hot  water  in  the  unused  forms. 

Cold  fried  eggs  can  be  used  for  salad,  or  revamped  by  dipping  them  in  fritter 
batter,  and  frying.  A  fine  sauce  for  fried  eggs  is  made  of  stewed  tomatoes,  grated 
cheese,  and  a  couple  of  chopped  up  boiled  sausages. 

Egg  Gems. — Mix  together  chopped  cold  meat  and  bread  crumbs,  in  equal 
quantities.  If  liked,  a  tiny  bit  of  onion,  chopped  very  fine,  may  be  added  to  the 
meat  and  crumbs.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and 
enough  milk  to  wet  and  bind  it  together  nicely.  Have  some  gem-pans  well  greased, 


EGGS.  139 

and  fill  with  the  mixture;  then  break  an  egg  carefully  on  the  top  of  each,  season 
it  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle  some  fine  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  on 
the  top.    Bake  8  minutes. 

Omelets.— These  light  and  simple  dishes  require  practice  to  prepare  them  to 
perfection.  Do  not  cook  them  until  just  before  they  are  needed,  and  then  serve 
them  at  once  on  a  very  hot  dish.  The  mixing  is  simpler  than  the  cooking.  Any 
smooth  iron  spider  will  answer,  but  have  it  very  clean.  Have  a  clear  fire,  and  the 
pan  hot  before  making  the  omelet.  Mix  the  omelet,  moisten  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  with  a  little  butter,  pour  in  the  omelet  and  as  soon  as  slightly  brown  under- 
neath, turn  one  half  over  the  other  with  a  knife,  let  it  harden  a  moment,  and  turn 
out  on  a  plate,  or  lift  out  with  a  pancake  turner.  Brown  the  omelet  merely— 
never  burn  it,  as  the  scorched  egg  flavor  is  an  injury  to  it.  Numerous  flavorings 
can  be  added,  and  the  name  will  be  derived  from  the  meat,  fish,  vegetable  or  herb 
used.  & 

Omelet,  No.  1.—  Beat  6  eggs  very  light,  the  yolks  and  whites  separate;  add  % 
teaspoon  salt,  and  3  tablespoons  of  milk;  have  a  very  hot  pan,  put  in  1  tablespooD 
of  butter,  pour  in  the  egg  mixture,  shake  on  the  hottest  part  of  the  stove  until  the 
egg  begins  to  thicken,  then  place  on  a  grate  in  the  oven  until  set;  run  the  knife 
between  the  omelet  and  pan,  fold  the  omelet  over,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

_  Omelet,  No.  2.— Take  6  eggs,  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately;  add  1  teacup 
milk,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook,  and 
serve  hot. 

Baked  Omelet.— Take  4  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately;  1  cup  of 
milk,  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  little  salt;  add  the  whites  just  before  putting  the 
mixture  in  the  oven.    Bake  20  minutes  in  a  well-buttered  dish. 

Baked  Omelet,  No.  2.— Six  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Mix  the  flour,  milk  and  salt,  add  the 
yolks,  then  add  beaten  whites.  Have  a  buttered  spider  very  hot;  pour  in.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  5  minutes. 

Green  Corn  Omelet.— Take  6  ears  corn,  grate  or  cut  the  kernels  fine,  add  4 
eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  milk;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  %  hour. 

Orange  Omelet.— Mix  a  little  orange  juice,  grated  rind,  and  sugar,  with  the 
eggs  before  cooking  them;  or  slice  the  oranges,  removing  the  seeds  and 
skin;  make  a  plain  omelet,  and  fold  the  omelet  over  part  of  the  oranges,  and 
spread  the  rest  on  top  when  it  is  done,  sugaring  the  top  also. 

Queen  Omelet.— Use  2  extra  yolks  to  every  egg.  Beat  fast  for  2  minutes. 
Have  the  frying-pan  or  spider  hot,  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  set  in 
a  hot  oven  and  bake.  When  done  it  will  be  a  light  puff,  and  the  extra  yolks  will 
keep  it  in  shape  and  prevent  its  falling.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and,  if  liked,  with 
sugar;  turn  on  a  hot  plate,  sprinkle  the  other  side  with  salt,  and  send  to  the 
table. 

Bice  Omelet— To  1  cup  of  steamed  or  boiled  rice,  add  1  cup  of  water,  3  well 
beaten  eggs,  and  1  teaspoon  of  butter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if  liked, 
with  a  little  finely  chopped  ham.    Bake  until  it  is  a  light  brown. 

Sweet  Omelet.— Do  not  use  any  pepper,  but  add  a  little  sugar— about  1  tea- 
spoon for  each  egg.  Make  like  a  plain  omelet,  and  when  done,  sprinkle  sugar  on 
top.  This  can  be  varied  by  putting  any  desired  kind  of  jam,  jelly,  marmalade  or 
preserves  on  top,  or  they  can  be  folded  inside  when  the  omelet  is  folded  over. 

Omelette  Souffle.— Beat  thoroughly  together  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  6  table- 
spoons of  pulverized  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  then  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  lightly  and  quickly  with  the  yolks  and  sugar; 


140  M&S. 

bake  in  an  enamelled  pudding-dish,  or  in  small  paper  souffle  cases,  one  for  each 
person.  The  souffles  should  bake  10  or  15  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  and 
be  sent  to  the  table  immediately,  as  they  soon  fall.  Blanched  and  pulverized 
sweet  almonds  can  be  added  to  the  above  for  Almond  Souffle. 

Various  Omelets.— Any  sort  of  an  omelet  can  be  made  by  folding  into  the  omelet 
either  sardines,  tomatoes,  ham,  oysters,  cheese,  kidney,  mushrooms,  macaroni,  or 
whatever  one  desires  or  has  on  hand.  Asparagus  tops  are  nice  in  an  omelet. 
The  ingenious  cook  can  devise  many  new  and  attractive  dishes. 

Poached  Eggs. — Break  the  eggs  separately  into  a  cup;  let  them  slide  gently 
into  boiling  water  with  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  in  it.  Take  them  out  and  serve 
on  hot  buttered  toast.  They  are  often  conveniently  poached  in  a  frying-pan; 
when  poached  in  quantities  they  are  apt  to  run  together.  In  poaching  eggs,  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  in  the  water  keeps  the  whites  from  spreading. 

Eggs  Poached  in  Gravy. — Poach  the  eggs  in  gravy  instead  of  water.  Serve 
them  in  their  gravy,  if  clear.  Or,  poach  the  eggs  in  water,  and  serve  with  rich 
gravy  poured  round  them. 

Ham  and  Eggs. — Prepare  thin  slices  of  fried  or  broiled  ham,  and  serve  a 
poached  egg  on  each  one. 

Spanish  Eggs. — Serve  poached  eggs  on  highly  seasoned,  hot,  boiled  rice. 

Anchovied  Eggs. — Prepare  slices  of  toast,  spread  them  with  butter  and  an- 
chovy paste,  and  put  a  poached  egg  on  each  slice.  Sardine  paste  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  anchovy,  if  preferred. 

Scrambled  Eggs.' — For  every  egg  allow  an  even  tablespoon  of  melted  butter 
and  a  tablespoon  of  sweet  milk.  When  the  butter  and  milk  is  hot,  put  in  the  eggs 
without  beating,  and  stir.  When  it  begins  to  cook,  scrape  fast  from  the  bottom 
of  the  frying-pan  to  keep  from  scorching.  Take  off  while  very  soft,  as  they  cook 
a  half  minute  after  being  taken  off,  for  which  many  cooks  do  not  allow.  Serve 
by  itself  hot,  or  on  toast.  A  dash  of  lemon  juice  added  just  as  they  are  going 
to  the  table  is  an  improvement. 

Scrambled  Eggs,  No  2. — Beat  the  eggs,  and  allow  1  tablespoon  of  milk  for 
each  egg;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  in  a  buttered  frying-pan,  and  while 
cooking,  stir  from  the  bottom.  A  few  spoonfuls  of  boiled  string-beans,  or  boiled 
peas,  or  tender  ends  of  asparagus  left  over  from  dinner,  can  be  stirred  in;  these 
are  nice,  furnish  variety,  and  use  up  remnants.     Try  and  devise  new  dishes. 

Scalloped  Eggs. — Moisten  bread  crumbs  with  cream;  place  a  layer  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  buttered  dish;  slice  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  put  a  layer  of  them,  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt,  with  chopped  cold  meat;  continue  until  the  dish  is  full;  sift 
grated  crumbs  over  the  top,  and  put  bits  of  butter  on  it;  set  it  in  the  oven  and 
bake  10  minutes. 

Shirred  Eggs. — Take  6  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  gravy — from  poultry  is  best — 
enough  fried  toast  to  cover  bottom  of  a  flat  dish,  a  very  little  grated  cheese,  1 
teaspoon  butter.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan;  when  hot,  break  into  this  the 
eggs.  Stir  in  gravy,  and  season;  stir  quickly  and  well  up  from  the  bottom,  until 
the  whole  is  a  soft  yellow  mass.  Have  ready  in  a  flat  dish  the  fried  toast.  Heap 
the  shirred  eggs  upon  this,  and  serve  before  it  hardens. 

Scotch  Eggs. — With  1  cup  of  cooked  ham,  chopped  fine,  mix  %  a  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  made  into  a  paste  with  %  a  cup  of  milk,  %  a  teaspoon  of  prepared  mus- 
tard, a  little  salt,  and  1  egg,  well  beaten;  hard-boil  6  eggs,  remove  the  shells,  and 
cover  them  with  the  prepared  mixture,  and  fry  about  2  minutes  in  very  hot  fat; 


EGGS.  141 

serve  either  hot  or  cold.    Chicken,  veal  or  salmon  may  be  substituted  for  the 
ham,  but  lemon  juice  should  be  added  to  the  seasoning  if  salmon  is  used. 

Steamed  Eggs. — Break  each  egg  into  an  egg-cup,  set  them  in  a  steamer  and  steam 
until  cooked.  They  can  be  put  in  buttered  patty-pans,  if  more  convenient,  and 
then  steamed.    Serve  hot. 

Stuffed  Eggs. — Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in  two,  take  out  the  yolk,  and  mix  it 
with  fried  onions,  a  little  finely  chopped  ham,  and  parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  fill 
the  whites  with  this  mixture,  and  fry  until  the  yellow  browns  a  little. 

Egg  Toast. — Take  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  of  cream,  and  warm  together  in 
a  frying-pan.  Break  6  eggs  in  it  and  stir  lightly  until  cooked;  have  well 
seasoned;  have  buttered  slices  of  toast,  spread  the  mixture  on  it,  and  serve  hot. 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE. 

MILK. 

Milk  is  the  only  food  which,  taken  alone,  will  support  life  in  all  its  stages.  It 
is  the  only  perfect  food  for  children,  and  in  old  age  it  is  one  of  the  most  valuable 
foods  known.  The  fat  rises  in  the  form  of  cream;  curd  is  the  nitrogenous 
matter,  and  the  whey  contains  sugar  of  milk,  or  lactose,  with  the  salt  or  mineral 
matter.  Milk  differs  as  procured  from  different  animals,  but  its  general  char- 
acteristics are  the  same  in  all,  and  that  of  the  cow  is  most  generally  used.  Unless 
the  milk  is  of  the  best  quality,  all  the  preparations  made  from  it  will  be  of  an 
inferior  character.  Milk  when  of  good  quality  is  of  an  opaque  white  color, 
although  the  color  slightly  varies  in  different  breeds  of  cattle,  and  that  from 
poorly  fed  cattle  is  inferior  in  quality.     One  pint  of  good  cow's  milk  will  contain: 

17  oz.  and  330  grains  of  water. 

370  grains  of  casein  (curd). 
333  grains  of  milk  fat  (butter). 
1  oz.  and   22  grains  of  milk  sugar  (lactose). 

72  grains  of  mineral  matter  (salts). 

The  composition  of  milk,  butter  and  cheese  is  as  follows: 

WATER.     ALBUMEN-     CARBOHT-     EATS.     MINERAL       POTENTIAL  ENERGY 
%  OIDS.  DRATES.  %       MATTERS.        IN  1  ft.  CALORIES. 

%  %  % 

Milk 87.0  3.6  4.7  4.0  0.7  325 

Butter 10.5  1.0  0.»  85.0  0.5  3615 

Cheese,  full  cream..  30.2  28.3  1.8  35.5  4.2  2070 

Cheese,  skim-milk...  41.3  38.4  8.9  6.8  4.6  1165 

Oleomargarine 11.0  0.6  0.4  85.0  3.0  3605 

The  mineral  matter  contained  in  milk  consists  of  chloride  of  sodium,  phos- 
phates, acetate  of  potassa,  and  lactate  of  iron. 

Milk  when  taken  into  the  stomach  is  coagulated  by  the  acids  in  the  gastric  fluids,  and 
the  coagulum  (curd)  is  digested  like  any  other  solid.  The  watery  parts  are  absorbed.  If 
much  milk  is  drunk  rapidly  it  will  form  a  solid  mass;  if  it  is  sipped  a  little  at  a  time  it  will 
be  broken  into  small  parts,  and  will,  therefore,  be  more  easily  digested.  A  quantity  of  acid 
taken  into  the  stomach  just  before  or  after  drinking  milk  is  apt  to  harden  the  curd,  and  so 
interfere  with  its  digestion.  Between  milk,  flour  and  blood,  there  is  great  similarity  of 
composition.  The  curd  is  the  albumenoid  part.  From  no  other  substance,  solid  or  fluid,  can 
so  great  a  number  of  distinct  kinds  of  aliment  be  prepared  as  from  milk,  some  forming 
food,  others  drink;  some  of  them  delicious  and  deserving  the  name  of  luxuries,  all  of  them 
wholesome,  and  some  medicinal.  Milk  when  first  drawn  from  the  cow  is  slightly  alkaline, 
but  afterwards  lactic  acid  is  formed,  so  that  it  becomes  first  neutral,  then  acid,  and  the 
acidity  goe9  on  increasing  until  it  is  perceptible  to  the  taste;  this  acidity  is  thought  to  as- 
sistrin  the  rising  of  the  cream.  In  milk  we  have  the  tissue-making  elements  in  its.  casein, 
and  the  heat-making  in  its  butter;  the  curd  or  casein  is  changed  to  albumen  again  in  the 
process  of  digestion.  The  souring  of  milk  is  caused  by  the  bacteria  which  alight  on  the 
milk  and  cause  a  fermentation  which  acts  on  the  lactose  (sugar  of  milk)  and  forms  lactic 
acid,  which  causes  the  sourness.  When  enough  acid  is  formed  it  will  unite  with  the  soda  in 
the  casein,  making  lactate  of  soda.  The  casein,  when  thus  deprived  of  its  soda,  is  insol- 
uble in  water,  and  it  shrinks  into  a  curdy  mass.  The  introduction  of  an  acid  will  hasten 
the  process,  as  is  done  in  making  cheese. 

Solidified  milk  is  made  by  sweetening  fresh  cow's  milk,  and  evaporating  it  to 
dryness  in  a  water  bath;  when  re-dissolved  in  water,  it  is  said  to  have  all  the 
qualities  of  fresh  milk.     This  preparation  of  milk  is  sometimes  called  lactoline.  ^ 

Sugar  of  milk  is  the  dry,  white,  nearly  tasteless  powder  used  by  physicians  in 
preparing  medicine  in  powders.  It  does  not  gather  dampness  like  cane  sugar, 
and  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  years.  It  is  sometimes  given  to  children 
by  itself,  as  a  remedy  in  certain  conditions  of  the  system.  It  is  made  from 
evaporated  whey. 

Canned  or  Condensed  Milk. — This  is  now  to  be  obtained  in  all  parts  of  the 
civilized  world,  and  is  invaluable,  as,  being  evaporated  by  steam  and  hermetically 
sealed,  it  will  keep  for  an  indefinite  time,  while  sealed,  and  after  the  can  is 
opened,  if  care  is  taken,  it  will  keep  good  for  a  week.  The  directions  for  reducing 

(142) 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE.  143 

it  are  on  the  can.  There  is  cane  sugar  added  to  it  before  condensing,  and  it  has 
the  color  and  consistency  of  thick,  opaque  honey.  It  can  be  used  clear,  a  tea- 
spoonful  to  a  cup  of  coffee,  without  sugar,  as  it  is  already  sweetened.  Diluted  to 
the  right  consistency,  it  is  much  used  as  a  food  for  infants.  When  good  milk  is 
difficult  to  obtain,  condensed  milk  is  a  great  blessing,  for,  being  sterilized  by 
extreme  heat,  it  is  free  from  dangerous  germs.  The  large  amount  of  cane  sugar 
which  it  contains,  and  which  is  added  to  preserve  it  and  prevent  its  thickening 
in  the  can,  renders  it  somewhat  less  suited  for  infants  than  the  natural  milk, 
however. 

Sour  Milk.—  If  milk  sours  on  your  hands,  do  not  throw  it  away — it  can  be  used 
in  various  ways,  as  in  making  corn  bread,  soda  biscuit  and  all  kinds  of  pancakes, 
while  many  cooks  prefer  it  to  sweet  milk,  in  making  cookies,  doughnuts  and 
gingerbread.  Sour  milk  can  be  substituted  for  sweet  in  making  most  kinds  of 
cake,  but  remember  in  that  case  that  only  half  as  much  cream  of  tartar  should  be 
used  as  the  recipe  calls  for. 

Buttermilk  also  has  many  uses  besides  being  used  as  a  drink  (to  drink,  it 
should  be  fresh)  as  it  can  be  made  into  soup,  or  used  in  making  corn  bread,  pan- 
cakes, soda  biscuit,  and  many  kinds  of  cake. 

For  hints  on  keeping  milk,  see  our  article  on  Keeping  Provisions;  and  for  the 
adulteration  of  milk,  see  our  article  on  the  Adulteration  of  Food. 

BUTTER. 

Butter  is  the  solidified  oil  or  .fatty  matter  of  the  milk  of  animals.  The  Greeks 
and  Romans  neither  employed  it  in  cooking,  nor  had  it  brought  upon  their  tables; 
they  used  it  only  as  an  ointment  in  their  baths.  The  Hebrews  appear  to  have 
used  it  as  food  from  an  ancient  date,  and  in  England  it  has  been  used  from  very 
early  times.  In  making  butter  the  utmost  care  is  required  in  all  the  manipula- 
tions from  the  time  it  leaves  the  cow  until  it  is  packed.  The  peculiar  flavor  of 
butter  is  derived  principally  from  the  butyric  acid  it  contains.  In  the  milk,  the 
globules  of  fat  are  held  in  solution,  by  the  albumenoid  (or  proteid)  matters, 
forming  what  is  termed  an  emulsion.  The  albumenoid  matter  must  be  separated 
from  the  butter  before  or  during  the  process  of  churning,  or  the  butter  will  not 
keep  well. 

For  suggestions  about  keeping  butter,  and  how  to  sweeten  rancid  butter,  see 
our  article  on  "Keeping  Provisions." 

To  Make  Butter  (Juickly. — Immediately  after  the  cow  is  milked,  strain  into 
clean  pans  and  set  over  a  moderate  fire  until  it  is  scalding  hot;  do  not  let  it  boil; 
then  set  it  aside,  and  when  cold,  skim  off  the  cream,  and  the  milk  will  still  be  fit 
for  any  ordinary  use.  When  you  have  enough  cream,  put  it  into  a  clean  earthen 
basin,  beat  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  butter  is  made,  which  will  not  be 
long;  then  take  it  out  of  the  milk  and  work  it  in  a  little  cold  water  until  it  is  free 
from  milk,  then  drain  off  the  water,  put  in  a  small  tablespoon  of  fine  salt  to  each 
Bb.  of  butter  and  work  it  in.  A  small  teaspoon  of  fine  white  sugar  worked  in  with 
the  salt  will  be  found  an  improvement;  sugar  is  a  great  preservative.  Make  the 
butter  in  a  roll,  cover  with  a  piece  of  muslin  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

An  easy  method  of  washing  butter  is  to  remove  the  butter  from  the  churn, 
pour  off  the  milk  or  buttermilk,  as  the  case  may  be,  half  fill  the  churn  with  cold 
water  (a  little  salt  may  be  added  to  the  water),  replace  plunger  and  throw  back 
the  butter,  and  operate  the  churn  as  before  for  1  minute.  This  process  will 
extract  all  the  milk  from  the  butter,  which  may  then  be  placed  in  a  sieve  to  allow 
the  water  to  strain  from  it,  and  then  worked  in  the  usual  manner. 

Butter,  to  Salt  (Irish  Recipe). — To  1  Bb.  of  common  salt  add  1  lb.  of  salt- 
petre and  %  Bb-  °f  white  sugar;  pound  all  these  together  and  mix  them  well,  and 
to  every  pound  of  butter  allow  1  ounce  of  this  mixture;  make  it  fresh  as  you 
want  it,  observing  to  be  careful  always  to  keep  the  same  proportions,  and  to  mix 
the  ingredients  thoroughly.  The  butter  should  stand  a  month  before  you  use  it, 
to  ripen. 


144  MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE. 

Butter  to  Salt,  No.  2. — One  pound  of  best  salt,  4  oz.  of  sugar,  and  1  oz.  of  salt- 
petre; pulverize  it  well  together,  and  allow  of  this,  1  oz.  to  the  pound  of  butter. 

Clarified  Butter,  or  Ghee,  as  it  is  called  by  the  Arabs,  is  prepared  as  follows: 
Put  butter  in  a  farina  boiler  or  porcelain  bowl,  put  it  on  the  stove  and  bring  to  a 
boil;  when  cheesy,  thick,  white  grains  form,  move  it  to  the  back  of  the  range;  the 
buttermilk  which  rises  to  the  top  should  be  skimmed  off;  after  it  has  settled, 
strain  it,  and  the  clear,  oily  fluid  remaining  can  be  bottled  for  use."  It  can  be 
kept  for  years,  and  for  frying  oysters,  fritters,  etc.,  there  is  nothing  better  known. 

Substitutes  for  Butter. — Butterine. — In  preparing  this,  lard  is  heated  to  a 
temperature  not  exceeding  120°,  and  the  oil  is  separated;  a  similar  oil  is  obtained 
from  beef  fat,  the  2  are  mixed,  and  they  are  then  churned  with  milk,  making  the 
butterine  of  commerce. 

Oleomargarine.* — In  preparing  this,  beef  fat  is  washed,  ground,  and  heated 
to  120°  to  200°  to  separate  the  oil,  which  is  known  as  "butter  oil."  This  is  cooled, 
salted,  put  into  milk,  a  little  annatto  added  to  give  it  color,  and  it  is  then 
churned  and  worked  like  butter.  In  preparing  butterine  and  oleomargarine 
only  the  best  fats  can  be  used,  for  there  is  no  way  now  known  to  remove 
the  unpleasant  odor  of  fat  if  it  is  at  all  foul.  These  preparations  are  about  as 
nutritious  as  true  butter,  and  if  properly  used  they  are  a  most  valuable  addition 
to  the  food  of  the  poorer  people,  who  commonly  suffer  from  a  want  of  fatty  food. 
Strict  laws  have  been  passed  in  some  of  the  states  against  their  sale  except  under 
their  true  name,  and  this  is  very  desirable.  It  is  a  fraud  to  sell  them  for  pure 
butter,  but  if  well  made,  and  sold  for  what  they  really  are,  they  merit  an  exten- 
sive sale.  They  are  certainly  preferable  to  the  poorer  grades  of  butter,  often 
partly  rancid,  which  are  frequently  sold  in  the  large  cities.  The  objection  to 
their  use  rests  rather  on  sentiment  and  prejudice  than  on  any  physiological  basis. 
They  are  to  be  considered  rather  as  substitutes  for,  than  imitations  of  butter. 

Other  substitutes  for  butter  are  the  vegetable  oils;  olive  oil  is  best,  if  pure,  but 
it  is  often  adulterated  with  inferior  oils.  Peanut  oil  is  excellent,  and  cotton-seed 
oil  of  late  has  taken  an  important  place  in  cookery;  it  is  inexpensive,  and  a  less 
quantity  is  required  than  of  butter  in  cooking.  A  preparation  of  cotton-seed  oil 
and  beef  suet  has  been  widely  advertised,  and  is  much  used  instead  of  butter  and 
lard.  Sesamum  or  Benne  oil  should  be  better  known;  it  is  easily  raised  in  the 
southern  states.  It  is  a  bland  and  odorless  oil,  and  a  most  excellent  substitute 
for  olive  oil  in  salads.  It  keeps  for  a  long  time  without  becoming  rancid,  if  stored 
in  a  dark  place.  Poppy-seed  oil  is  also  being  used  now  somewhat.  We  believe 
the  day  is  near  at  hand  when  some  of  the  vegetable  oils  will  largely  supplant  lard 
and  other  animal  fats  in  nearly  all  cooking  operations. 

Some  people  who  have  a  dread  of  "margarine,"  take  a  piece  of  fat  pork,  melt 
it  down,  and  strain  it  through  a  piece  of  coarse,  thin  muslin;  then  set  it  aside 
until  it  is  cold.  It  is  then  white  and  firm,  and  may  be  used  like  butter  in  any 
kind  of  cake.    In  pound  cake  it  is  delicious. 

A  Word  About  Fats. — And  right  here  we  may  say  a  few  words  about  differ- 
ent fats.  There  are  3  substances  called  "stearin,"  "margarin,"  and  "olein"  which, 
without  exception,  principally  make  up  all  the  fats  we  consume.  They  are  called 
"neutral  fats,"  and  the  fact  that  they  melt  at  different  temperatures  constitutes 

*It  was  during  the  Franco-German  war  of  1870-71  that  a  French  chemist  Mege-Mourier 
acting  under  instructions  from  Napoleon  III,  went  into  his  laboratory  and  invented  the 
process  of  making  a  substitute  for  butter,  designing  it  for  use  in  the  French  army.  The 
process  has  since  been  further  perfected,  and  the  making  of  these  substitutes  has  now 
become  a  great  industry. 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE.  145 

the  principal  difference  between  them.  There  is  a  small  amount  of  what  are 
known  as  "fatty  acids"  in  the  vegetable  oils,  and  in  butter  there  is  from  5  to  8 
per  cent  of  4  of  these  fatty  acids  (butyric,  capronic,  caprylic  and  caprinic)  and 
from  these  butter  derives  its  peculiar  flavor.  Olein  melts  the  most  easily,  and 
stearin  the  least  so.  The  fats  which  melt  most  readily  are  the  most  digestible, 
and  are  most  readily  assimilated  by  the  system,  but  the  healthy  stomach  readily 
disposes  of  any  fat  used  in  the  household,  in  reasonable  quantities,  although  it 
should  be  taken  into  the  system  finely  divided  instead  of  in  lumps.  It  will  readily 
be  seen,  therefore,  that  all  the  fats  are  substantially  alike,  and  when  once  they 
are  assimilated,  they  perform  the  same  services  for  the  body.  Their  flavors,  and 
the  readiness  with  which  they  melt  in  the  mouth  and  in  the  digestive  tract,  make 
some  forms,  like  butter,  more  palatable  than  others.  Mutton  fat  would  do  about 
as  well  as  any,  but  it  is  not  swallowed  readily  because  it  contains  so  much  stearin. 
The  body  requires  a  certain  amount  of  fat,  but  it  makes  very  little  difference 
which  one  it  takes,  and  for  this  reason  the  introduction  of  some  cheaper  forms  of 
fat,  in  such  a  shape  that  they  will  be  palatable,  will  be  a  great  benefit  to  the 
mass  of  the  people.  We  believe,  as  we  have  elsewhere  stated,  that  some  of  the 
vegetable  oils  will  soon  be  quite  generally  used,  and  it  is  certainly  to  be  desired 
that  they  should  be.  Wealthy  people  will  always  use  the  best  butter,  but  the 
mass  of  the  people  should  understand  what  the  cheaper  substitutes  are,  and  their 
properties  and  merits,  and  certainly  there  is  no  hygienic  or  physiological  reason 
why  they  should  not  use  these  cheaper  substitutes,  and  so  make  a  material  saving 
in  the  household  expenses. 

CHEESE. 

When  milk  is  curdled  it  separates  into  two  portions— curd  and  whey.  The 
former  consists  of  the  butter  and  casein,  and  produces  cheese;  the  latter  is  mainly 
water,  holding  the  sugar  and  mineral  constituents  of  the  milk  in  solution.  Any 
acid  introduced  in  milk  has  the  curious  property  of  coagulating  the  curd  or 
casein.  This  acid  is  supplied  by  the  "rennet,"  but  in  some  countries  a  weak 
solution  of  hydrochloric  acid  is  used  instead.  In  preparing  cheese  for  cooking 
old  cheese  should  be  grated,  and  new  and  soft  ones  should  be  chopped. 

An  analysis  of  cheese  shows  it  to  he  one  of  the  most  nourishing  of  foods  1  B.  of  aver- 
age cheese  containing  more  nutriment  than  an  equal  weight  of  ordinary  meat.  Eaten  raw 
it  is  not  suited  to  persons  of  weak  digestion  or  of  sedentary  habits,  and  it  tends  to  produce 
costiveness.  If  it  could  be  properly  cooked  it  ought  to  be  one  of  the  most  desirable  of 
foods.  _  It  is  frequently  over-cooked,  converting  it  into  an  air-tight,  leathery  substance 
which  is  harder  to  digest  than  the  raw  cheese.  When  lightly  cooked  it  is  easily  assimilated 
and  very  nourishing.  In  fact  it  is  too  nourishing  to  be  eaten  heartily  as  an  accompani- 
ment to  meat;  it  is  more  adapted  for  the  main  course  of  the  meal.  It  Is  most  deficient  in 
the  salts  of  potash,  which,  on  account  of  their  great  solubility,  are  left  behind  in  the  whev 
Eating  freely  of  fruits  or  salads  will  supply  these  salts,  but  vegetables  do  not  answer  the  pur- 
pose, because  m  ordinary  methods  of  cooking  them,  theirsaltsare  dissolved  out  and  wasted. 
With  the  advance  of  scientific  knowledge  and  scientific  cookery  the  true  value  of  cheese  for 
food  will  some  time  be  better  appreciated,  and  it  will  take  a  much  more  important  place 
w^°wg  fc£e  fi^?  °t the  rac,eiha£  at  Present,  we  believe,  and  it  is  certainly  entitled  to  it 
We^°Vid  add  tbatsome  of  the  German  scientists  have  recently  been  investigating  the  di- 
gestibility of  cheese  Dr.  Rubner  found  that  when  taken  alone  he  could  not  consume 
much  of  it,  but  when  taken  with  milk  he  easily  assimilated  nearly  y2  ft  The  softer  kind! 
are  very  largely  used  in  Germany.    Except  in  fat,  skim  cheeses  are  as  nutritious  as  any 

For  hints  about  purchasing  and  keeping  cheese  see  our  articles  on  Marketing 
and  on  Keeping  Provisions. 

Rennet.— This  is  made  from  the  fourth  or  lowest  stomach  (the  abomasus)  of 
the  calf.  Soon  after  the  animal  is  slain  the  stomach  should  be  cut  open  at  one 
end,  emptied  of  the  curdled  milk,  and  turned  inside  out;  then  with  a  damp  cloth 
dipped  in  dry  salt,  carefully  wipe  the  inside  of  the  bag  until  it  is  free  from  any 
particles  of  curdled  milk;  do  not  wash  it,  as  that  extracts  the  gastric  juice.  Rub 
fane  salt  thoroughly  into  both  the  inside  and  outside  of  the  bag,  place  it  in  a 

•Yi.  \t      COVer  [t  to keep  out  the  flies>    The  next  da^ there wil1  be  a  brine formed 
with  the  salt;  turn  the  rennet-skin  in  the  bowl,  and  let  it  stand  another  day  to 


146  MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE. 

pickle.  Take  a  long,  slender,  green,  wooden  stick,  make  it  into  bow  shape,  and 
stretch  the  rennet  bag  on  the  stick  and  hang  it  up  to  dry.  When  thoroughly 
dry,  do  it  up  in  paper  so  that  no  insects  can  get  into  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place. 

To  Prepare  Rennet. — When  wanted  for  use,  the  dried  rennet  is  cut  in  pieces 
about  an  inch  square,  and  if  to  be  used  for  invalids'  curds  it  is  put  in  a  bottle  with 
wine;  a  piece  half  the  size  of  the  hand  is  enough  for  a  pint  of  wine;  it  must  be 
kept  well  corked.  It  is  better  to  have  the  druggist  prepare  the  rennet-wine  after 
his  formula.  A  teaspoonf ul  is  enough  to  "set"  a  quart  of  sweetened  milk.  Set 
the  milk  on  some  solid  foundation,  as  it  then  coagulates  with  much  less  rennet 
than  when  it  is  jarred  by  people  walking  near  it.  For  dairy  purposes  the  rennet 
is  steeped  in  a  weak  brine,  but  that  way  of  preparing  it  is  not  the  best  for 
invalid  cookery. 

The  usual  mode  of  serving  cheese,  is  to  cut  the  desired  quantity  into  neat, 
square  pieces,  and  put  them  in  a  glass  cheese-dish,  in  which  it  is  handed  around 
the  table.  If  the  cheese  is  too  crumbly  to  be  served  in  this  manner,  the  host  or 
hostess  can  have  the  large  piece  of  cheese  placed  on  the  table,  with  a  cheese- 
scoop  to  serve  it  with,  or  a  heavy  silver  spoon.  The  cheese  must  be  nicely 
scraped  before  serving  in  the  latter  way.  When  there  is  a  cheese  course  at 
dinner,  several  kinds  of  cheese  are  placed  on  the  table  at  once,  cream  cheese, 
Parmesan,  Stilton,  etc.,  etc.,  and  rusks,  crackers,  or  fancy  biscuits,  fanciful  pats 
of  butter,  lettuce,  cucumbers  or  cresses,  are  served  with  the  cheese. 

Parmesan  cheese  is,  perhaps,  the  most  celebrated  of  the  foreign  varieties.  It  is  made  of 
skimmed  milk,  and  owes  its  rich  flavor  to  the  fine,  sw  eet  herbage  of  Lombardy  about 
Parma  and  Pavia,  in  Italy,  where  the  cows  are  pastured.  It  is  distinguished  by  its  power 
of  keeping,  and  after  being  kept  some  time  becomes  hard,  and  needs  to  be  grated  before 
it  can  be  used. 

Boiled  Cheese. — Take  2  thick  slices  of  cheese,  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  3^  teacup 
of  milk,  a  little  sugar  and  mustard,  1  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  all  the 
ingredients,  except  the  egg,  into  a  clean  pan,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  they 
boil  and  become  quite  smooth;  then  beat  the  egg  well,  and  stir  it  in  over  the 
fire  for  a  minute,  after  which  pour  out  on  a  dish  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Cream  Cheese. — Dip  a  cheese  cloth  in  salted  water,  and  put  it  in  a  square  dish 
or  baking-tin,  having  first  laid  a  folded  napkin  in  the  dish;  on  the  cheese-cloth 
put  the  thickest  cream  you  have — it  must  be  perfectly  sweet  (Devonshire  cream 
is  the  best);  pour  the  cream  in,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on 
each  layer;  fold  over  the  cloth  and  let  it  lie  until  the  next  day;  then  turn.it  into 
a  dry  cloth,  put  a  dry,  folded  cloth  under  it,  put  a  little  square  platter  on  it,  and 
set  a  flatiron  on  the  platter;  change  the  dry  cloth  once  more,  and  on  the  third 
day  it  is  ready  to  eat.  If  preferred,  this  cheese  can  be  made  in  a  round  form  in 
a  pudding-dish. 

Cottage  Cheese. — Put  a  pan  of  sour  or  loppered  milk  on  the  stove  or  range 
where  it  is  not  too  hot;  let  it  scald  until  the  whey  rises  to  the  top  (be  careful  not 
to  let  it  boil  or  the  curd  will  become  hard  and  tough).  Place  a  clean  cloth  or 
towel  over  a  sieve,  and  pour  this  whey  and  curd  into  it,  leaving  it  covered  to  drain 
2  or  3  hours;  then  put  it  into  a  dish  and  chop  it  fine  with  a  spoon,  adding  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  enough  sweet  cream  to  make  the  cheese 
the  consistency  of  putty.  With  your  hands  make  it  into  little  flattened  balls. 
Keep  in  a  cool  place.  Some  like  it  made  rather  thin  with  cream,  serving  it  in  a 
deep  dish. 

Devonshire  Cream.— The  milk  should  stand  24  hours  in  the  winter,  and  half 
that  time  in  warm  weather;  then  the  milk  pan  is  set  on  the  stove,  and  should 
there  remain  until  the  milk  is  quite  hot,  but  it  must  not  boil.  When  it  is  suffi- 
ciently done,  the  undulations  on  the  surface  look  thick,  and  small  rings  appear. 
The  time  required  for  scalding  cream  depends  on  the  size  of  the  pan,  and  the 
heat  of  the  fire,  but  the  slower  it  is  done  the  better.    Set  it  back  in  the  dairy 


MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE.  147 

again,  after  scalding,  and  skim  the  following  day.  This  cream  is  so  much 
esteemed  that  it  is  sent  to  "the  London  markets  in  small  square  tins,  and  is 
exceedingly  delicious  when  eaten  with  fresh  fruit.  In  Devonshire,  butter  is 
made  from  this  cream,  and  is  usually  very  firm. 

Cheese  Fritters. — Put  into  a  sauce-pan  1  pint  of  water,  X%  oz.  of  butter,  a 
teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  bring  the  water  to  boiling 
point;  then  gradually  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  paste.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  incorporate  J^  pound  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  the  whites  of  2 
eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  the  yolks  of  4.  Let  the  paste  stand  for  2  hours,  and 
then  fry  in  little  pieces,  dropped  into  boiling  lard.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
them  before  serving. 

Fondue. — Beat  6  eggs  until  light;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  2  tablespoons 
grated  cheese;  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan;  when  hot,  pour  in  the 
eggs  and  stir  until  well  done  and  smooth;  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

The  Home  Cheese  Scallop. — Soak  1  cup  of  dry  bread  crumbs  in  fresh  milk; 
beat  into  it  3  eggs,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  ^  Bb.  of  grated  cheese;  strew 
upon  the  top  sifted  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  the  oven  a  delicate  brown. 

Italian  Curds  (Gallino  Curds).— Take  a  number  of  the  rough  coats  that  line 
the  gizzards  of  turkeys  and  fowls;  clean  them  from  their  contents,  rub  them  well 
with  salt,  and  hang  them  to  dry.  When  needed  for  use,  break  off  bits;  pour  over 
them  a  little  hot  water,  and  after  standing  over  night  it  is  ready  for  use.  It 
makes  a  more  delicate  curd  than  calf's  rennet.  Warm  2  quarts  of  milk,  and  add 
some  of  the  gallino  liquor,  and,  when  the  curd  is  well  set,  dip  it  carefully  with  a 
large  spoon  or  ladle  into  a  colander  over  which  a  cheese-cloth  has  been  spread; 
handle  it  carefully  so  as  not  to  start  the  white  whey.  When  the  whey  has  sepa- 
rated from  the  curd,  so  that  it  has  consistence,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  send  to 
the  table. 

Cheese  and  Macaroni  (Italian  Mode). — Boil  6  ounces  of  the  best  macaroni  in  3 
pints  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Allow  it  to  simmer  gently  for 
15  or  20  minutes,  then  drain  it,  return  the  macaroni  to  the  sauce-pan  with  %  a  pint 
of  good  gravy  and  allow  it  to  simmer  until  it  has  absorbed  all  the  liquid.  Have 
ready  grated  ^  lb.  of  cheese,  put  half  of  it  with  the  macaroni  until  it  is  nearly 
melted,  and  then  add  the  remainder  with  an  ounce  of  butter.  Stir  it  well,  always 
the  one  way,  until  cheese  and  macaroni  are  well  mixed.  Serve  very  hot.  A  little 
short  crust  bordering  the  dish  is  an  addition. 

Polpetti  (Italian).— Chop  cold  meat  finely,  either  roast  or  boiled;  season  with 
mushrooms  or  truffles,  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper  and 
chutnee  sauce;  spread  on  a  tin  to  cool,  after  being  well  heated  together;  cut  in 
small  squares  when  cold,  dip  in  egg,  and  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard.    Serve  with  plain -boiled  macaroni  and  cream. 

Potted  Cheese. — To  pot  cheese  is  an  economical  way  of  disposing  of  any  that  has 
become  dry.  Cut  the  cheese  into  small  pieces,  and  pound  it  smoothly  in  a  mortar, 
adding  a  little  nice,  sweet  butter,  just  sufficient  to  make  a  paste  suitable  for  spread- 
ing on  bread  for  sandwiches;  add  a  little  mixed  mustard,  and  a  trifle  of  cayenne  to 
the  paste;  pack  in  little  earthen  pots,  if  to  be  set  on  the  table  for  an  appetizer,  cover 
closely,  and  set  in  a  dry  place;  if  there  is  danger  of  mold,  put  a  few  drops  of 
extract  of  cloves  on  the  top  of  the  paste  before  covering;  or,  if  preferred,  a  thin 
layer  of  nice  salad  oil. 

Smear  Case. — Pour  boiling  water  on  clabbered  milk,  till  the  curd  separates 


148  MILK,  BUTTER  AND  CHEESE. 

from  the  whey;  let  it  stand  till  the  curd  settles,  then  pour  cold-water  on  it  and 
stir;  let  settle,  drain  water  off;  do  this  till  the  water  is  clear,  then  let  it  settle, 
and  squeeze  out  enough  curd  for  one  meal.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
sugar,  and  pour  good,  sweet  cream  over.  You  can  keep  it  in  water  for  several 
days,  by  changing  the  water  every  day. 

Cheese  Straws. — Mix  together  4  tablespoons  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  very 
little  cayenne  pepper,  and  3  oz.  of  grated  English  cheese.  Add  the  beaten  yolk 
of  an  egg,  and  then  enough  iced  water  to  make  a  very  stiff  paste.  Roll  the  paste 
out  on  a  board  into  a  sheet  ~%  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  the  paste  into  strips  % 
of  an  inch  wide  and  5  inches  long,  and  bake  them  about  10.  minutes  in  a  very  hot 
oven.  They  should  be  a  very  light  brown.  If  you  have  any  scraps  of  paste  left, 
roll  them  into  a  sheet,  and  cut  it  into  small  rings.  Bake  them,  and  slip  little 
bundles  of  the  straws  through  them. 

Toast  with  Cheese. — In  1  cup  of  milk  stir  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  and  boil 
until  the  cheese  softens  in  the  milk;  then  add  2  well-beaten  eggs;  stir  until  it 
boils,  take  from  the  fire  and  spread  over  nicely-browned  toast.  Served  very  hot. 
This  will  be  found  enjoyable.     It  is  a  nice  dish  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

Welsh  Rarebit. — Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  about  3^  inch  thick,  and  toast  them 
a  nice  brown  on  both  sides  (take  time  enough  so  that  it  can  be  well  done  without 
scorching,  and  this  rule  will  apply  to  making  toast  at  any  time).  Have  as  many 
thin  slices  of  rich,  mild  cheese  as  there  are  of  the  toasted  bread;  dip  the  edges  of 
the  toast  in  hot  water,  and  spread  with  softened  butter;  lay  a  slice  of  the  cheese  on 
each  slice  of  toast,  and  set  the  platter  on  the  top  shelf  of  a  hot  oven  until  the 
cheese  is  melted  into  the  toast  and  slightly  browned.  Another  way  is  to  lay  each 
slice  of  toast  on  a  blue-edged  English  baking-plate,  just  a  little  larger  than  the 
toast;  dust  a  little  cayenne,  or  pepper,  on  the  toast  before  putting  on  the  cheese; 
place  the  little  plates  in  a  large  dripping-pan,  without  water,  set  on  the  top  shelf 
of  the  hot  oven,  and  when  done  as  above  directed,  serve  each  person  with  the 
rarebit  on  the  hot  plate.  Another  method  is  to  melt  the  cheese  in  a  little  cup 
and  pour  it  over  the  prepared  toast.  Some  add  a  little  butter  and  milk,  stirring 
it  into  the  melted  cheese  till  smooth,  before  pouring  it  over  the  toast.  Others 
add  a  little  egg,  butter,  mustard  and  cayenne.  Do  not  make  it  until  just  ready 
to  serve  it,  as,  if  it  stands  and  becomes  cold,  it  will  be  nearjy  spoiled. 


SALADS. 

Salads  are  preparations  of  uncooked  vegetables,  of  which  lettuce  and  celery 
are  most  generally  used;  many  others,  however,  are  frequently  used,  such  as 
cabbage,  potato,  water-cress,  onions,  asparagus,  etc.  As  vegetables  when  eaten 
raw  are  apt  to  ferment  in  the  stomach,  and  as  they  have  very  little  stimulative 
power  on  that  organ,  they  are  usually  dressed  with  some  condiments,  such  as 
pepper,  vinegar,  salt,  mustard  and  oil.  Medical  men  disagree  about  the  use  of 
these,  especially  about  the  oil,  some  condemning  and  others  recommending  it. 

The  vegetables  used  in  salads  should  be  very  carefully  cleaned,  using  ice-cold 
water  to  wash  them  in,  and  they  should  be  afterwards  carefully  dried  in  a  towel. 
Do  not  break  the  leaves  if  you  can  help  it,  as  that  will  make  them  wilt  quickly. 
Putting  lettuce,  cabbage,  celery,  etc.,  into  ice-cold  water  for  2  or  3  hours  will  make 
them  crisp.  Vegetable  salads  are  best  eaten  at  once  after  they  are  made,  but 
chicken  salad  will  keep  a  number  of  days  in  cold  weather.  As  a  knife  when  used 
on  a  vegetable  salad  will  blacken  it,  and  impair  its  crispness,  it  is  better  to  avoid 
using  one;  use  a  wooden  spoon  to  stir  a  salad,  and  stir  no  more  than  necessary. 
The  freshest  olive  salad  oil  is  the  best  to  use.  Cotton-seed  oil  is  often  sold  as  olive 
oil,  which  is  a  fraud,  but  if  sold  at  a  fair  price  under  its  true  name,  its  use  is  un- 
objectionable, as  it  is  a  nutritious  vegetable  oil.  Melted  butter  is  used  instead 
of  oil  by  some  people,  who  say  they  like  it  better.  While  melted  butter  may  do 
for  family  use,  oil  is  tne  only  thing  for  "state  occasions."  Arrange  a  salad  on  a 
platter  or  in  an  earthen  salad  bowl;  never  put  it  in  glass,  as  it  looks  disagreeably 
smeary  when  you  begin  to  dish  it  out. 

As  lettuce  is  necessary  to  so  many  salads,  a  word  may  be  said  about  the 
proper  way  to  prepare  it.  It  is  quite  apt  to  be  infested  with  insects  which  pene- 
trate even  to  the  inner  leaves,  and  therefore  each  leaf  must  be  carefully  washed 
and  examined.  Let  it  stand  in  very  cold  water  an  hour  or  longer,  shake  in  a  wire 
basket  or  coarse  towel  to  free  it  from  water,  and  put  in  the  ice-box  until  serving 
time.  An  easier  and  quicker  way  than  cutting  lettuce  for  salad  is  to  lay  6  or  8 
leaves  together  in  the  hand  and  twist  and  tear  them  apart;  it  is  better  to  tear 
than  cut  it. 

There  is  a  common  idea  that  salads  are  difficult  to  make  and  are  principally 
adapted  for  the  wealthy,  or  for  special  occasions.  This  is  a  mistake,  as  they  can 
be  made  from  "left-over"  vegetables,  and  so  are  economical,  and  they  are  easily 
prepared  when  one  knows  how.  The  common  people  among  the  French  use 
them  almost  daily,  and  to  advantage.  The  vegetables  used  should  be  drained  or 
dried  thoroughly  from  the  water,  or  the  dressing  when  applied  will  be  watery, 
and  spoil  the  salad.  Do  not  prepare  plain  salads  until  wanted  at  the  table;  if 
prepared  long  beforehand,  the  lettuce  withers,  and  the  dressing  becomes  watery. 

There  is  an  admirable  Spanish  proverb  about  dressing  salads.  It  says  it  re- 
quires 4  persons  to  mix  a  salad:  a  spendthrift  to  throw  in  the  oil,  a  miser  to  drop 
in  the  vinegar,  a  lawyer  to  add  the  seasoning,  and  a  madman  to  stir  it  together. 

To  fringe  Celery. — A  simple  and  convenient  way  to  fringe  celery  stalks,  is  to 
take  a  cork,  put  many  large  needles  in  the  end,  and  then  cut  the  celery  into 
pieces  about  2  inches  long,  and  draw  about  half  of  each  strip  through  the  needles 
a  few  times.  When  well  shreded,  put  away  to  become  crisp  in  a  cold  place.  Thus 
prepared  it  makes  a  good  garnish  for  salads,  meats,  etc. 

To  marinate  a  salad,  is  to  let  it  stand  for  a  time  to  season,  sprinkled  with  a 
French  dressing. 

Although  salads  usually  contain  no  flesh  forming  or  heat  giving  material,  they  are  val- 
uable because  they  introduce  into  the  system  large  quantities"  of  saline  matter,  which  by 
the  common  method  of  cooking  is  generally  removed  from  vegetables.  For  this  reason 
they  are  of  much  value  to  the  poorer  inhabitants  of  our  towns  and  cities.  They  should  be 
cleaned  very  carefully  so  that  no  parasitic  animals  remain  in  them.  The  vegetables  are 
best  used  when  freshly  cut,  although  some  of  their  freshness  may  be  regained  if  the  stalks 
are  freshly  cut  and  placed  under  water.  The  salad  dressing  should  not  be  added  until  the 
last  moment.    The  French  and  Italians  seem  to  best  appreciate  the  value  of  salads. 

(149) 


150  SALADS. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

1  or  2  eggs  beaten  well.  Vn  cup  sugar  (scant).        Va  cup  vinegar. 

H  cup  cold  -water  (if  vinegar  is  sharp).  Small  piece  of  butter.    Salt;  red-pepper  (to  taste). 

Stir  all  together  and  bring  to  a  boil.  When  cool,  add  }{  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
or  creamy  milk. 

Salad  Dressing,  No.  2. — Rub  to  a  paste  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs.  Add 
1  teaspoon  each  of  mustard,  salt  and  sugar,  with  %  a  teaspoon  of  pepper,  drop  in 
about  2  tablespoons  of  salad  oil  or  sweet  cream,  and  add  4  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice.    This  is  a  nice  dressing  for  canned  salmon  also. 

Boiled  Dressing. — Heat  1  cup  fresh  cream  nearly  to  boiling  point;  stir  in  1 
tablespoon  sifted  flour  previously  wet  with  cold  milk,  and  boil  2  minutes,  stirring 
all  the  time;  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  take  from  the  stove.  When  half 
cold,  beat  in  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  when  quite  cold,  beat  in  2  tablespoons 
of  salad  oil,  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  made  mustard,  and  %  teaspoon  pepper. 
If  the  salad  is  ready,  add  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  and  spread  it  on. 

Cream  Dressing. — Rub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  fine  with  a  spoon,  stir 
in  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  %  teacup  of  thick,  sweet  cream,  a  saltspoon  of 
salt,  a  dust  of  cayenne,  and  vinegar  enough  to  reduce  all  to  a  smooth,  creamy 
state.  Add  a  little  mustard  also,  if  liked,  and  pour  it  upon  lettuce  or  other  salad 
when  ready  for  serving. 

French  Salad  Dressing. — Mix  1  teaspoon  pepper  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  then 
mix  in  3  tablespoons  salad  oil,  and  1  tablespoon  vinegar;  mix  all  well  and  pour 
over  the  salad.  A  teaspoon  of  finely  scraped  onion  or  34  teaspoon  of  onion  juice 
can  be  added,  if  liked.  Some  people  add  also  1  teaspoon  of  made  mustard. 
Lemon  juice  or  tarragon  vinegar  can  be  used  instead  of  the  vinegar,  if  preferred. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. — Break  the  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs  in  a  soup  plate,  beat 
smooth  with  a  silver  fork,  and  add  oil,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  when  it  can  be  added  in  larger  quantities;  but  the  stirring  must  be 
kept  up  constantly,  and  with  a  rapid  motion.  When  it  grows  thick,  add  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar,  beat  smooth  again,  and  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  level  salt- 
spoon  of  mustard,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne.  The  vinegar  should  be  added  a  little 
at  a  time  until  2  tablespoons  have  been  used.  The  amount  of  oil  depends  on  the 
quantity  of  dressing  required,  but  a  scant  cupful  will  be  an  abundance  for  an 
ordinary  salad.  Should  the  mayonnaise  curdle,  or  crack,  as  it  is  called,  take 
another  egg,  add  oil  in  small  quantities  until  it  thickens,  and  then  stir  in  the 
curdled  mixture,  which  will  soon  grow  smooth  and  velvety  in  appearance.  Take 
special  pains  in  hot  weather  to  have  both  ingredients  and  utensils  ice  cold.  The 
mayonnaise  can  be  colored  a  bright  red  with  lobster  coral,  or  green  with  spinach 
green  or  chopped  parsley. 

Swiss  Dressing. — Put  2  ounces  of  cheese  in  a  mortar,  pound  it  well,  add  1 
tablespoon  vinegar,  a  small  quantity  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  very  gradually  dilute 
it  with  salad  oil. 

SALADS. 

String  Bean  Salad. — String  young,  green  string  beans,  and  cook  till  tender  in 
salted  water;  then  drain,  cover  with  cold  water,  let  stand  till  cold,  drain  and  dry. 
Serve  with  or  without  lettuce,  and  use  a  French  dressing.  Add  a  little  onion 
juice,  if  liked. 

Beef  Salad. — Take  the  crisp,  small  center  leaves  of  2  heads  of  cabbage  lettuce; 
add  3^  ft),  cold  boiled,  fresh  beef,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  or  not,  as  preferred, 
a  tablespoon  of  chopped  sweet  Spanish  peppers.    Serve  with  a  plain  salad  dress- 


SALADS.  151 

ing.  Lamb  salad  can  be  made  the  same  way,  by  using  instead  of  the  beef  %  lb. 
cold  roast  lamb,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Cabbage  Salad. — Chop  a  cabbage,  and  add  a  French,  mayonnaise,  or  boiled 
dressing. 

Cold  Slaw. — Take  %  cup  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  tea- 
spoon mixed  mustard,  butter  size  of  small  egg;  mix,  stir  until  it  boils,  and  when 
cold  pour  it  over  chopped  or  shaved  cabbage.  Very  nice.  (The  term  "cold-slaw" 
is  derived  from  the  Dutch  Kohl-slaw,  meaning  simply  cabbage  salad.) 

Cream  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw. — Take  2  tablespoons  whipped  sweet  cream,  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  4  tablespoons  vinegar.  Beat  well,  and  pour  over  cabbage 
previously  cut  very  fine,  and  seasoned  with  salt. 

Cream  Slaw. — Chop  a  head  of  cabbage  fine  and  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt;  let  it 
stand  while  you  make  the  cream.  Mix  well  together,  and  cook  slowly  until  quite 
smooth  and  creamy,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon 
sugar,  %  teacup  vinegar,  %  teacup  sweet  milk  or  cream;  when  done,  pour  over 
the  cabbage.  After  you  put  it  in  the  dish,  sprinkle  with  pepper.  Excellent.  If 
kept  in  a  cool  place  will  be  nice  for  1  or  2  days. 

Hot  Slaw. — Chop  a  head  of  cabbage  and  put  into  the  kettle,  with  a  tablespoon 
of  lard  (or  meat  fryings)  in  the  bottom,  with  enough  hot  water  to  keep  it  from 
boiling  dry;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  cabbage  is  boiled  tender, 
beat  1  egg  in  a  teacup  %  ' u^  °f  vinegar,  and  then  fill  the  cup  with  cream  (sour 
cream  will  do  as  well  as  sweet);  pour  it  over  the  hot  cabbage,  let  stand  5  minutes, 
and  serve.    Will  cook  in  1  hour. 

Celery  Salad. — Wash  and  wipe  %  dozen  heads  of  celery.  Cut  with  shears 
in  a  salad-bowl.  Mix  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons  with  2  tablespoons  of  water.  Stir  well  together, 
drop  over  it  3  ounces  of  salad  oil,  then  add  a  spoon  of  hot  water,  and  pour  over 
the  celery. 

Chicory  and  Endive  are  used  also  for  salads  like  celery.  Endive  is  a  native  of  China 
and  Japan.  It  resembles  sea-kale  in  flavor,  being  rather  bitter,  and  it  is  used  for  salads  and 
soups.    It  is  not  so  tender  as  lettuce,  but  it  makes  an  excellent  winter  salad. 

Escarole  and  Monk's-Beard  (Barbe  de  Capucin)  belong  to  the  same  family  as  the 
endive.  They  can  be  made  into  salads  alone,  or  mixed  with  sorrel,  lettuce,  etc.  They  make 
good  winter  salads,  and  also  excellent  salads  to  serve  with  game. 

Chicken  Salad. — Take  the  meat  of  2  large  boiled  chickens,  free  it  from  skin 
and  fat  and  cut  in  dice;  add  an  equal  quantity  of  celery  cut  in  dice,  3  olives, 
chopped,  2  teaspoons  capers;  make  a  dressing  of  6  spoons  salad  oil,  2  tablespoons 
vinegar,  2  teaspoons  salt,  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper;  pour  it  over  the  salad  and  let 
stand  several  hours  in  the  ice  chest.  Then  arrange  it  on  a  platter  in  a  mound, 
pour  on  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  garnish  with  lettuce,  olives,  beets  and  car- 
rots cut  in  fancy  forms.  The  chicken  should  be  cooked  the  day  before  using  so 
as  to  be  thoroughly  cold.    (See  "Veal  Salad.") 

Chicken  Salad,  Noi  2. — Take  the  meat  from  1  cold  boiled  chicken,  and  2  tea- 
cups celery;  do  not  chop  either,  but  cut  each  into  dice,  and  mix.  Put  2  teacups 
cream  into  a  sauce-pan  and  boil;  stir  in  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  until  it  becomes  like 
thick  corn-starch;  put  the  sauce-pan  into  cold  water  and  stir  in  %  bottle  Durkee's 
salad  dressing,  stirring  to  keep  it  from  curdling;  add  vinegar  to  taste.  When  cold, 
pour  over  the  chicken  and  celery.    Excellent. 

Crab  Salad. — Take  the  meat  of  boiled  crab,  chop  it,  and  mix  a  mayonnaise 
sauce  with  it.  Clean  the  shells,  put  in  the  mixture,  and  garnish  with  parsley  or 
cresses  and  sliced  lemon. 


152  SALADS. 

Cucumber  Salad.— (1)  Peel  and  slice  fresh  cucumbers,  and  let  them  stand  in 
a  bowl  of  water  2  hours,  changing  the  water  twice.  When  it  is  time  to  serve 
dinner,  drain  and  chop  the  cucumbers  coarsely  with  a  knife,  and  add  1  or  2  new 
onions,  cut  finely.  Put  in  a  salad  dish,  and  send  to  the  table  without  dressing. 
Serve  in  small  salad-plates  and  send  it  around  the  table  with  salad  oil  vin- 
egar, salt  and  pepper.  (2)  Mix  sliced  cucumbers  and  new  onions,  sliced,  and  cover 
with  a  French  dressing. 

Egg  Salad. — Put  into  a  salad  bowl  the  leaves  of  a  head  of  lettuce;  slice  4  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  add;  mince  12  capers  and  sprinkle  over  the  eggs,  and  cover  with 
either  a  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Fish  Salad. — Take  any  cooked  fish  which  has  become  cold,  remove  skin  and 
bones,  and  flake  it  or  cut  in  pieces,  and  spread  it  on  lettuce  leaves.  Cover  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Finely  picked  sardines  may  be  added  if  desired,  and  also 
some  hard-boiled  egg.  Salmon  is  the  favorite  fish  for  salads,  but  almost  any  other 
will  do.  The  fish  can  be  mixed  with  cabbage  or  celery  instead  of  lettuce,  if  more 
convenient. 

Ham  Salad. — Cut  cold  boiled  ham  into  dice,  lean  and  fat  together;  mix  with 
celery  or  lettuce  and  cover  with  a  boiled  dressing.  s 

Lemon  Salad, — Make  as  directed  for  orange  salad,  but  add  a  little  lettuce,  and 
sprigs  of  mint  or  tarragon,  if  you  have  it. 

Lettuce  Salad. — Lettuce  makes  the  foundation  for  many  excellent  salads.  Pre- 
pare it  as  previously  directed,  and  serve  it  crisp  and  cold.  It  can  be  served  (1) 
alone  with  French  or  boiled  dressing,  or  (2)  mixed  with  celery  cut  into  dice,  and 
with  a  French  dressing,  which  makes  an  excellent  salad.  It  goes  well  (3)  mixed 
with  sorrel,  with  a  French  dressing,  or  (4)  with  chives,  using  the  same  dressing 
and  garnishing  with  olives,  or  (5)  with  pepper-grass  and  water-cresses  mixed, 
using  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  garnishing  with  radishes.  A  few  nasturtium 
blossoms  for  a  garnish  produce  a  brilliant  effect.  (6)  A  bed  of  lettuce  covered 
with  sliced  cucumbers,  and  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes  on  top,  covered  with  a  may- 
onnaise or  French  dressing,  makes  a  good  salad. 

Lamb's  Lettuce  (also  called  Cor n-salad  or  FetUcus)  is  a  small  annual  plant,  often  used 
for  salads.  It  comes  early  in  the  spring,  and  although  inferior  to  lettuce,  it  makes  a  fairly 
good  substitute  for  it,  and  a  good  spring  salad. 

Lobster  Salad. — It  is  better  to  use  large  lobsters,  as  there  is  less  waste  than 
with  small  ones.  Cut  up  the  meat,  and  pour  on  it  oil  and  vinegar  in  the  propor- 
tion of  1  tablespoon  of  oil  to  3  of  vinegar,  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  it  stand 
in  a  cold  place  for  1  hour  at  least;  this  is  called  "marinating"  it,  and  serves  to 
season  it.  At  serving  time,  drain  it  from  the  oil  and  vinegar  not  absorbed,  put  it 
on  a  bed  of  lettuce,  and  cover  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  Garnish  it  with  the 
claws  of  the  lobster.  It  can  be  made  without  going  through  the  marinating 
process,  but  we  think  that  an  improvement. 

Melon  Salad. — Put  either  watermelons  or  musk  melons  on  ice  till  very  cold; 
then  take  out  the  seeds  and  remove  the  rind,  using  only  the  fully  ripe  part,  cut 
into  pieces,  put  into  a  bowl  with  bits  of  ice,  and  pour  over  either  a  mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing. 

Nut  Salad.— Mix  together  1  qt.  of  shredded  lettuce,  and  2  cups  chopped  nuts; 
dress  with  a  little  mayonnaise  dressing,  arrange  in  fresh  lettuce,  and  garnish  with 
more  mayonnaise. 

Orange  Salad. — Peel  the  oranges,  slice  them  crossways,  take  out  the  seeds,  and 
cover  with  a  dressing  made  in  the  proportion  of  3  spoons  of  salad  oil  to  1  spoon 


SALADS.  153 

lemon  juice,  and  add  a  dash  of  cayenne;  flavor,  if  desired,  with  a  little  grated 
orange  rind.    Excellent  with  cold  game  or  roast  pork. 

Oyster  Salad. -Use  the  small  oysters,  and  just  let  them  come  to  boiling  in  their 
own  liquor;  skim  and  drain  in  a  colander,  then  on  a  cloth.  For  a  pint  of  oysters 
add  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  2  of  salad  oil,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  mTx 
we  h  and  set  it  in  the  ice-chest.  Cut  finely  a  pint  of  nice  w'hfte  celery  and  m  x 
with  the  oystersjust  before  serving,  arrange  it  on  a  salad  dish,  garnish  IZTe 
white  leaves  of  the  celery  and  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  mayonnaise  dressing 

Potato  Salad  --Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  dice  and  "marinate"  in  a  French 
dressing;  chill  thoroughly,  then  arrange  in  a  tasteful  manner,  and  garnish  with 
parsley,  chopped  pickled  beets,  and  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced.  For  a  qua  of  cut 
potatoes,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  3  tablespoons  of  oil  and  3  o 
vinegar,  are  required  for  the  dressing,  and  4  hard-boiled  eggs.  This  is  a  tasteful 
dish  of  white,  yellow,  red,  and  green.  tastetul 

Potato  Salad  with  Eggs.-Cut  cold  potatoes  finely,  and  mix  with  French 
salad  dressing;  place  on  a  garnished  platter,  and  cover  with  slices  of  hard  boiled 
eggs.    Good  for  a  luncheon  or  supper  dish  in  hot  weather 

Salmon  Salad.-Put  the  meat  of  1  can  of  salmon  in  a  colander  to  drain-  then 
carefully  pick  out  any  bones,  skin,  or  unsightly  bits.  When  well  drained  put 't 
in  a  bowl  in  the  ice-chest  until  time  to  serve;  make  a  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
keep  that  by  itself  in  the  ice-chest.    Have  ready  the  heart's  of n*e  ZdZtnoe 

tlTT/T^  Ttr;  JUSt  b6f0re  SerViDg  Put  a  heav^  bord-  of  lettuce  around 
the  salad  dish,  cut  the  salmon  finely,  and  place  in  the  center;  then  pour  the 
mayonnaise  over  the  fish.  Serve  a  few  of  the  lettuce  leaves  with  the  saLd  to 
each  person.  The  water  from  the  lettuce  must  be  thoroughly  shaken  off  or ^ 
will  dilute  the  mayonnaise.    Another  way  is  to  put  3  stalks   of  sliced  'celery 

rssintgtS  £  *£  *  ^  -™!  "?»*■  ~*  -"-* 

war^o^^ 

preserved.  Remove  the  skin  and  bones,  and  pour  a  little  lemon  juTce  over  them 
Lay  them  on  a  bed  of  lettuce,  pour  a  plain  French  dressing  over  them  and 
garnish  with  2  hard-boiled  eggs  which  have  been  chopped  fine 

Tongue  Salad.-Chop  a  nicely  cooked  tongue  fine,  then  add  chopped  celerv 
and  lettuce  and  the  whites  of  eggs.    Use  a  mayonnaise  dressing  *  * 

oJZ  w  al°  ,??a«:-Boil  3  la^e  ^eet  potatoes,  and  when  thoroughly  cold 
cut  them  into  half-inch  squares;   cut  into  very  small  pieces  2  stalks  of  celerv 

VoZ:  ™:r%?  nVnd  pepper' and  pour  °ver  it^^  ^:LT 

Tomato  Salad.-(l)  Cut  ripe  tomatoes  into  slices,  remove  all  the  seeds 
sprinkle  on  a  French  dressing,  let  them  stand  2  hours  on  ice  Ldthev  will  t' 
ready  to  serve.  (2)  Another  way  is  to  peel  the  toma^ T^Zttl^t 
a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing  on  each  half,  and  serve 

Veal  Salad—Boil  the  veal  until  it  is  tender;  let  it  become  quite  cold  cut  it 
quite  fine,  and  use  as  much  chopped  celery  as  veal.    Mix,  after  chopping,  and 
just  before  serving  pour  over  it  a  rich  mayonnaise  dressing.    (When  a  lar£e 
^1  bofll      :fen,SiladSaSt°  b6made  f°r  aP-ty>»alf  the  meat  may  be  o 
dSLeneel  **"  ***  "  *"*  andn°  °»e  wi»-er  know  the 

Vegetable  Salads. -Almost  any  cold  vegetable  may  be  used,  and  this 


is  an 


154  SALADS. 

excellent  way  to  utilize  the  remnants  of  vegetables  left  from  dinner  the  day 
before.  Take  any  one  alone,  or  several  vegetables  mixed,  and  arrange  them 
tastefully  (with  lettuce  if  you  have  it,  without  if  not);  cover  with  a  French  or 
mayonnaise  dressing.    Many  varieties  may  thus  be  made. 

Walnut  Salad. — Get  the  kernels  as  nearly  whole  as  possible,  and  let  them  soak 
2  hours  in  lemon  juice;  pick  them  out  without  draining  and  serve  on  water-cress 
or  lettuce,  with  French  dressing. 

Water-cress  Salad. — Pick  over  the  leaves  and  remove  bruised  or  wilted  ones; 
if  long  tear  them  into  2-inch  lengths;  if  short  it  is  not  necessary.  Cold  boiled 
beets,  cut  in  dice,  or  chopped  onion  may  be  added.  Use  a  French  dressing. 
Water-cress  makes  one  of  the  most  wholesome  of  salads,  and  is  remarkable  for  the 
amount  of  mineral  matter  found  in  it.  The  garden  cress  also  makes  an  excellent 
salad.  Cresses  can  be  used  alone,  or  mixed  with  cucumbers,  tomatoes  or  onions 
for  salads. 

Fruit  Salad. — Cut  bananas,  oranges  and  pineapple  in  small  pieces;  arrange 
them  in  alternate  layers  in  a  glass  dish,  with  powdered  sugar  and  grated  cocoa- 
nut  between  each  layer.    It  makes  a  nice  dessert  with  white  cake. 

Various  other  fruits  may  also  be  combined  for  fruit  salads,  as  strawberries, 
raspberries,  currants,  peaches,  etc.,  and  thus  a  variety  of  pleasing  combinations 
and  flavors  can  be  produced.  Exercise  your  ingenuity  in  devising  new  combina- 
tions. 


VEGETABLES, 


An  abundance  and  variety  of  vegetables  are  essential  to  perfect  health.  They 
furnish  the  mineral  matters,  alkalies  and  acids  in  which  meat  is  deficient,  and 
most  of  the  carbohydrates  needed  by  the  system.  The  following  table  will  show 
the  percentage  of -the  different  food  elements  in  various  vegetables.  For  an  ex- 
planation of  the  terms  "albumenoids,"  "carbohydrates,"  "potential  energy"  and 
"Calories,"  see  our  article  elsewhere  on  the  composition  of  foods. 

TABLE  SHOWING  THE  PERCENTAGE  OP   POOD   ELEMENTS  IN  DIFFERENT  VEGETABLES. 


Asparagus 

Beans,  Lima,  green . . . 
Beans,  string,  green.. 

Beans,  dried 

Beets 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Cucumber 

Corn,  sweet,  green 

Corn,  sweet,  green,  can'd 

Egg  Plant 

Lettuce 

Onions 

Okra 

Peas,  green 

Peas,  dried 

Potatoes  

Potatoes,  sweet 

Pumpkin 

Rice ... 

Spinach 

Squash 

Turnips 

Tomatoes 


Water. 


94.0 

68.5 
87.2 
12.6 
88.5 
90.5 


96.0 
81.2 
71.8 
92.9 
93.1 
87.6 
87.4 
78.1 
14.3 
78.9 
71.1 
93.4 
12.4 
92.4 
88.1 
89.4 
96.0 


Albu- 
menoids. 


1.8 
7.1 
2.2 

23.1 
1.5 
2.4 
1.1 
1.6 
0.8 
2.8 
3.0 
1.2 
1.6 
1.4 
2.0 
4.4 

22.4 
2.1 
1.5 
0.9 
7.4 
2.1 
0.9 
1.2 
0.8 


Carbohy- 
drates. 
% 


3.3 

22.0 

9.5 

59.2 

8.8 

5.3 

8.9 

5.0 

2.5 

14.2 

22.5 

5.1 

3.7 

10.1 

9.5 

16.1 

58.3 

17.9 

26.0 

4.9 

79.4 

3.1 

10.1 

8.2 

2.5 


Fats. 


0.2 
0.7 
0.4 
2.0 
0.1 
0.4 
0.4 
0.8 
0.2 
1.1 
1.3 
0.3 
0.5 
0.3 
0.4 
0.5 
2.0 
0.1 
0.4 
0.1 
0.4 
0.5 
0  2 
0.2 
0.4 


Mineral 
Matters. 


0.7 
1.7 
0.7 
3.1 
1.1 
1.4 
1.0 
0.8 
0.5 
0.7 
1.4 
0.5 
1.1 
0.6 
0.7 
0.9 
3.0 
1.0 
1.0 
0.7 
0.4 
1.9 
0.7 
1.0 
0.3 


Potential 

Energy 

inlft. 

Calories. 


105 
570 
235 

1615 
195 
155 
205 
155 
70 
360 
530 
130 
120 
225 
230 
400 

1580 
375 
530 
110 

1630 

120 

215 

185 

80 


The  large  percentage  of  water  in  all  the  vegetables  will  be  noticed,  and  also 
the  large  amount  of  albumenoids  in  the  dried  beans  and  peas.  One  great  draw- 
back to  the  use  of  vegetables  is  that  the  percentage  of  their  nutrients  which  they 
yield  to  us,  as  the  stomach  attempts  to  digest  them,  is  from  25  to  50  %  less  than 
that  yielded  by  animal  foods.  See  what  we  say  elsewhere  about  "Cellulose."  We 
digest,  however,  a  rather  larger  percentage  of  their  starch  than  of  their  albumen- 
oid  principles.  The  lack  of  fat  in  vegetables  should  be  supplied  by  using  butter, 
or  some  other  form  of  fat,  with  them  all.  A  moment's  thought  will  show  our 
readers  that  in  arranging  a  dietary  the  object  is  to  supply  the  lack  of  any  ele- 
ment in  one  article  of  food,  by  using  with  it  some  other  food  containing  the  miss- 
ing element.  Although  the  foods  in  every-day  use  thus  supplement  each  other, 
many  people  do  not  think  of  the  principle  involved.  Why  does  butter  go  with 
bread?  Because  the  gluten  of  the  bread  furnishes  the  albumenoid  element 
needed  by  the  body,  while  the  starch  supplies  the  carbohydrates,  but  bread  itself 
lacks  fat,  and  the  butter  used  supplies  that.  So  meat  and  potatoes  go  well 
together,  the  lean  meat  supplying  the  albumenoids,  the  potato  the  carbohydrates, 
and  the  fat  or  butter  furnishes  the  fats,  the  3  together  thus  supplying  the  body 
with  the  3  great  food  elements  which  it  needs. 

Vegetables  when  taken  as  food  are  valuable  not  only  for  the  direct  nourishment  which 
they  afford  to  the  system,  but  also  because  they  impart  to  the  blood  certain  constituents 
which  are  necessary  to  maintain  its  highest  purity.  This  has  been  amply  proved  by  the 
appearance  of  such  blood  diseases  as  scurvy,  etc.,  in  circumstances  where   vegetable  food 

(155) 


156  VEGETABLES. 

was  not  procurable  for  any  length  of  time.  Few  people  rightly  estimate  the  value  of  veg- 
etables to  the  system.  One  of  the  chief  benefits  derived  from  eating  them  comes  from  the 
salts  which  they  contain,  while  they  also  introduce  into  the  system  some  water  necessary 
for  digestion  and  assimilation,  and  afford  the  benefit  of  variety  in  food.  It  is  much  to  be 
regretted  that  by  the  method  of  cooking  vegetables  which  commonly  prevails  in  this  coun- 
try the  greater  part  of  their  salts  are  dissolved  out  by  the  water  in  which  they  are  cooked, 
and  this  water  is  thrown  away,  only  the  vegetable  itself  being  eaten.  There  seems  to  be  a 
common  impression  that  the  water  in  which  many  vegetables  are  boiled  is  poisonous,  but 
this  is  a  most  erroneous  idea. 

In  this  connection  we  quote  from  Mr.  Mattieu  Williams:  "I  must  add  a  few  words  in 
advocacy  of  further  adoption  in  this  country  of  the  French  practice  of  using  as  potage  (for 
soups,  etc.,)  the  water  in  which  vegetables  generally  (excepting  potatoes)  have  been  boiled. 
When  we  boil  cabbages,  turnips,  carrots,  etc.,  we  dissolve  out  of  them  a  very  large  propor- 
tion of  their  saline  constituents;  salts  which  are  absolutely  necessary  for  the  maintenance 
of  health;  salts  without  which  we  become  victims  of  gout,  rheumatism,  lumbago,  neuralgia, 
gravel,  and  all  the  ills  that  human  flesh  with  a  lithic  acid  diathesis  is  heir  to;  i.  e.,  about 
the  most  painful  series  of  all  its  inheritances."  To  which  we  may  add  the  recommendation 
to  save  vegetable  broth,  and  utilize  it  for  soup,  sauce,  etc.  A  rich  soup  can  be  made  from 
the  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled  (if  without  their  skins)  by  mashing2  or  3,  and 
adding  a  little  thickening  and  seasoning  and  a  little  butter.  The  juices  of  other  vegetables 
like  cabbage,  turnips,  celery,  and  most  others,  are  palatable  and  work  well  into  soups. 
Onions  are  an  exception;  they  should  be  used  sparingly  as  flavoring  for  those  who  like 
them,  but  ^a  dish  of  boiled  onions  served  with  the  water  they  are  boiled  in,  causes  dis- 
tressing flatulence  often.  They  can  be  parboiled,  the  water  changed  once,  and  then  eaten 
by  most  people  without  unpleasant  digestive  disorders. 

All  green  vegetables  are  best  when  they  are  grown  quickly,  in  which  case  they 
have  less  woody  fibre.  All  green  vegetables  need  to  be  eaten  fresh.  When  fresh, 
vegetables  will  snap  crisply.  Peas  picked  in  the  early  morning  can  be  cooked  the 
same  day  in  about  %  the  time  needed  if  they  are  kept  1  or  2  days  longer,  and  their 
flavor  is  much  better.  Ears  of  green  corn  that  are  just  filled,  will,  if  plunged  into 
boiling  water  as  soon  as  gathered,  cook  in  10  minutes,  or  perhaps  less,  and  if  kept 
1  or  2  days  twice  as  much  time  will  be  needed,  and  they  will  not  then  be  as 
tender  and  fine  flavored. 

Very  few  vegetables  are  roasted;  they  are  generally  boiled.  Those  which  con- 
tain saccharine  matter,  such  as  carrots,  beetroot,  parsnips,  etc.,  are  best  cooked 
by  steam,  as  boiling  water  dissolves  out  a  large  quantity  of  their  nutritious  ingre- 
dients. Vegetables,  however,  which  contain  much  starch,  as  a  rule,  are  best 
boiled,  as  by  boiling  the  granules  of  the  starch  are  ruptured  and  partially  dis- 
solved, and  any  volatile  oils  which  may  be  present  are  expelled,  as  well  as  the  con- 
fined air.  We  elsewhere  explain  how  much  cooking  adds  to  the  digestibility  of 
starch. 

All  vegetables,  with  a  few  exceptions,  should  be  put  first  into  boiling  water 
which  contains  salt  in  the  proportion  of  an  even  teaspoon  to  every  2  qts.  of  water; 
the  exceptions  are  old,  dry,  and  partly  dried  vegetables,  such  as  peas,  beans  of  all 
kinds,  and  wilted  vegetables;  the  latter  had  better  be  thrown  away  if  they  do  not 
become  crisp  after  standing  a  few  hours  in  cold  water. 

How  to  Boil  Vegetables. — While  in  boiling  meat,  the  great  point  is  not  to  have 
the  water  boil,  but  to  have  it  simmer  instead,  the  great  point  in  boiling  vegetables 
is  not  to  let  the  boiling  stop.  Even  if  the  boiling  water  could  be  raised  above  212°, 
the  vegetable  would  be  rather  improved  than  injured  thereby.  Have  plenty  of 
water,  especially  for  greens  of  all  kinds.  Choose  a  sufficiently  large  kettle,  and 
get  it  %  full  of  boiling  water  in  ample  time;  then  the  water  will  come  to  a  boil 
more  quickly  when  the  vegetables  are  thrown  in,  for  when  the  cold  vegetables  aro 
first  put  in  they  will  check  the  boiling.  The  quicker  vegetables  boil  the  greener 
they  will  be,  and  remember  that  freshly-gathered  vegetables  do  not  require  as 
long  boiling  as  those  which  have  been  long  kept.  Experience  will  best  tell  you 
when  the  vegetables  are  sufficiently  cooked.  The  rule  should  be  to  cook  them 
until  they  are  soft  and  tender,  but  no  longer,  because  the  starch  cells  having  then 
burst,  they  will  begin  to  absorb  water,  and  the  vegetable  will  become  soggy,  and 
loose  flavor  as  well.  If  not  sufficiently  done  they  are  indigestible,  and  if  left  too 
long  they  become  soggy.  As  soon  as  they  are  done,  take  them  out  and  serve 
them. 

Remember  then,  that  there  is  a  right  and  a  wrong  way  to  boil  vegetables. 
The  essentials  of  the  right  way  are:  (1)  to  put  them  into  boiling  water,  which  is 
slightly  salted;  (2)  have  plenty  of  it ;  (3)  do  not  let  the  boiling  stop  until  they 
are  done;  (4)  take  them  out  as  soon  as  they  are  done.  The  wrong  way  is  the 
opposite  of  this — it  is  to  use  little  water,  let  it  simmer  without  really  boiling,  and 
to  leave  the  vegetables  in  too  long.    If  you  will  try  the  2  methods  once,  the 


VEGETABLES.  157 

difference  in  the  results  and  the  superiority  of  the  first  method  will  be  apparent. 
Asparagus,  cauliflower  and  peas,  should  boil,  but  the  water  should  not  bubble,  as 
that  tosses  them  around  and  breaks  them. 

Overcoming  the  Odor  of  Boiling. — Various  plans  have  been  devised  to  mit- 
igate the  unpleasant  odor  caused  by  many  vegetables  while  cooking.  (1)  Wrap 
a  piece  of  bread  about  the  size  of  a  lemon  in  a  cloth,  and  drop  it  in  the  kettle  at 
the  start;  it  will  absorb  the  odor.  (2)  A  lump  of  charcoal  treated  in  the  same 
way  will  absorb  the  odor.  (3)  Fold  a  towel  to  3  or  4  thicknesses  and  lay  over 
the  kettle.  (4)  A  piece  of  red  pepper,  %  inch  in  diameter,  dropped  in  at  the 
start,  is  used  by  some  cooks.  The  essential  oils  are  dissolved  out  of  the  vegetable 
while  cooking,  and  from  this  oil  the  odor  comes.  If  the  water  is  changed  once 
or  twice  while  the  vegetable  is  cooking,  it  will  be  an  advantage,  but  be  sure  the 
fresh  water  is  boiling  hot  when  put  in.  Changing  the  water  while  cooking  also 
gets  rid  of  some  unwholesome  sulphuric  gases  given  out  by  cabbage  and  onion. 

Effect  of  Different  Waters. — Many  cooks  do  not  understand  the  different 
effects  produced  by  hard  and  soft  water;  peas  and  beans  especially  should  be 
cooked  in  soft  water  if  possible  to  obtain  it  (see  "Rain  Water  Cisterns")  as  hard 
water  containing  lime  and  gypsum  harden  vegetable  casein,  making  them  less 
digestible.  With  some  vegetables,  soft  water  extracts  most  of  their  flavor  and  salts, 
but  the  addition  of  a  little  salt  partially  remedies  this.    Great  care  should  be 

The  chief  benefit  derived  from  boiling  vegetables  is  that  boiling  bursts  the 
nearly  indigestible  cellulose  sheaths  which  cover  the  starch  granules  (like  the 
shell  on  an  egg);  this  lets  out  the  starch,  which  is  then  readily  attacked  by  the 
digestive  fluids,  and  turned  into  sugar. 

Hints. — Be  very  careful  to  wash  vegetables  thoroughly,  and  examine  them  for 
insects.  Spinach  should  be  allowed  to  float  on  water  in  a  deep  vessel,  and  then 
lifted  out  with  the  hand  and  placed  in  deep  water  in  another  vessel,  in  order  to 
free  it  from  sand.  Any  vegetables  which  are  peeled  should  be  thrown  into  cold 
water  until  wanted  for  cooking,  to  prevent  their  turning  color.  When  possible, 
it  is  much  better  to  boil  the  different  vegetables  by  themselves;  also,  when  such 
vegetables  as  cabbage,  carrots,  beets,  onions,  potatoes,  parsnips  or  turnips  are 
boiled  with  meat,  the  flavor  of  both  the  meat  and  the  vegetable  is  injured.  Not 
only  this,  but  it  is  also  better  to  store  vegetables  separately.  Certainly  the  strong 
scented  vegetables,  like  onions,  leeks  and  cabbage,  should  be  kept  apart,  for 
delicate  vegetables  will  be  spoiled  in  a  short  time,  if  near  the  strongly  scented 
ones. 

Vegetables  are  much  nicer  boiled  in  slightly  salted  water,  and  then,  when 
seasoned  with  butter,  they  are  usually  salted  sufficiently  for  most  persons;  the 
water  being  salted  reaches  a  higher  temperature  before  boiling,  and  secures  bet- 
ter cookery  of  the  vegetables.  It  is  important  that  all  vegetables  should  go  to 
the  table  as  hot  as  possible,  and  2  or  3  two-qt.  tin  basins  are  good  to  keep  them  in 
until  ready  to  put  them  on  the  table;  or  they  may,  if  more  convenient,  be  kept  in 
the  kettles  they  were  boiled  in.  Have  the  vegetable  dishes  (that  will  not  bear 
standing  on  the  back  of  the  range  to  keep  hot)  standing  ready  on  a  table  with  hot 
water  in  them.  For  common  use,  heavy  white  nappies  are  good  for  dishing  up 
vegetables,  as  they  will  bear  standing  on  the  back  of  the  range,  or  in  the  edge  of 
the  oven,  with  the  door  open. 

In  dishing  up  vegetables,  drain  them  thoroughly  from  the  water.  Vegetables 
which  contain  much  sugar,  like  beets,  turnips,  squash,  pumpkins,  etc.,  especially 
if  they  are  not  of  the  best  quality,  are  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  little  sugar — 
a  fact  overlooked  by  many  cooks.  Boiling  deprives  them  of  part  of  their  sweet- 
ness, so  add  a  little.  Vegetables,  like  lettuce  and  cabbage,  which  contain  potash 
salts,  are  best  eaten  with  a  mild  acid,  like  vinegar. 

When,  by  reason  of  long  keeping,  the  freshness  of  salads,  greens,  roots,  etc., 
has  been  somewhat  lost,  it  may  bt  restored  by  putting  the  stems  and  roots  in  cold 
fresh  water  for  1  or  2  hours  before  dressing  them,  but  the  leaves  should  not  be 
immersed,  as  that  injures  them. 

In  winter,  or  after  long  keeping,  tuberous  vegetables  like  carrots,  turnips,  po- 
tatoes, etc.,  become  wilted,  and  their  flavor  impaired;  after  peeling  and  slicing,  let 
them  stand  in  cold  water  for  several  hours  before  cooking  them,  and  it  will  restore 
their  freshness. 

To  shell  beans  easily,  pour  upon  the  pods  a  quantity  of  scalding  water,  and 
the  beans  will  slip  out  very  readily. 


158  VEGETABLES. 

In  boiling  suet  dumplings,  to  be  served  with  meat,  like  a  vegetable,  put  a 
plate  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  as,  when  first  put  in,  they  will  sink,  and  some- 
times stick  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  and  burn.  When  they  swell  with  boiling, 
they  get  light  and  float.    Puddings  are  always  boiled  in  a  cloth. 

ARTICHOKES. 

Jerusalem  Artichokes. — Wash  the  roots  thoroughly,  scrape  off  the  skin,  cut 
off  1  end  flat;  and  leave  the  other  pointed.  Boil  until  soft,  in  water  containing 
a  little  salt,  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar.  Cook  until  soft,  but  do  not  leave  longer, 
or  they  will  become  hard  again.  Take  them  up  carefully,  put  them  in  the  vegeta- 
ble dish,  and  pour  over  them  scalded  cream,  or  serve  with  a  white  sauce.  They 
can  also  be  chopped  coarsely  and  served  as  a  salad,  with  a  salad  dressing. 

Globe  Artichokes. — Cut  off  the  outside  leaves,  trim  away  the  lower  ones,  and 
boil  in  salted  water  containing  a  few  drops  of  vinegar;  boil  about  1  hour,  drain, 
take  out  the  choke,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter  poured  over  them. 

French  Artichokes,  Fried. — Wash  and  trim  the  artichoke  heads,  and  cut  them 
into  thin  slices;  place  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar  added;  this 
should  be  done  15  or  20  minutes  before  frying  them.  Drain,  and  wipe  them  dry; 
make  a  batter  with  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  salad  oil,  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  mix  the  sliced  artichoke  thoroughly  with  the 
batter,  then  fry  in  hot  fat,  being  careful  that  the  artichoke  is  cooked  through  as 
well  as  browned. 

Canned  Artichokes  should  be  placed  in  ice-cold  water  for  15  minutes  before 
serving  them.  The  dressing  to  accompany  them  is  made  by  mixing  2  large  spoons 
of  vinegar  with  1  of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  8  spoons  of  good 
salad  oil. 

Artichokes.— There  are  two  vegetables  called  by  this  name,  both  belonging  to  the 
order  Compositce.  The  Jerusalem  artichoke,  (Helianthus  tuberosus)  is  said  to  be  a  native  of 
Brazil,  but  has  long  been  naturalized  in  this  country.  Its  name  is  a  corruption  of  the 
Italian  girasolei  (sunflower).  The  flowers  are  like  the  common  sunflower,  only  smaller,  and 
the  roots,  something  like  potatoes  in  shape  and  size,  are  cooked  as  a  vegetable,  and  some- 
times used  for  pickles.  This  plant  is  perennial,  and  when  once  planted  in  a  rich  soil  can 
be  dug  early  every  spring;  the  small  roots  left  in  the  ground  will  keep  the  crop  growing 
year  after  year. 

The  globe,  or  French  artichoke,  so  called  (Cynara  Scolymus)  is  a  native  of  Asia,  but  is 
naturalised  in  this  country.  The  flowerbuds  and  upper  part  of  the  stalks  are  used  for  a 
vegetable  at  table,  and  are  cultivated  from  suckers  placed  in  rows  3  feet  apart.  The  Car- 
doon  (Cynara  Cardunculus)  is  a  native  of  southern  Europe,  and  much  resembles  the  arti- 
choke. It  has  purple  flowers,  and  is  grown,  blanched,  and  eaten  like  celery.  Artichokes 
contain  80%  of  water;  2 of  albumenoids;  16%  carbohydrates;  0.5%  fats;  1% mineral  matters. 

ASPARAGUS. 

A  la  Francaise. — Wash  and  boil  the  asparagus  until  tender;  drain  them,  cut 
off  the  heads  and  about  2  inches  of  the  white  part  of  the  stalks;  mince  them  with 
a  knife,  and  mix  them  with  a  small  onion  cut  finely;  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well 
beaten,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  make  it  hot  in  a  stew-pan,  and  dish  it  up 
on  a  platter,  with  nicely  browned,  buttered  toast. 

Buttered. — Pour  boiling  water  over  a  bunch  of  asparagus,  then  untie  the 
bundle  and  lay  it  in  a  large  frying-pan;  cover  with  boiling  water,  sprinkle  on  a 
very  little  salt,  cover,  and  cook  20  or  30  minutes — do  not  cook  until  the  heads 
break  off.  When  done,  pour  off  the  water,  lift  the  pieces  carefully  by  the  hard 
end  of  the  stem,  lay  them  in  a  flat  vegetable  dish,  place  bits  of  butter  on  the 
asparagus,  set  in  the  oven  until  the  butter  is  melted,  and  send  to  the  table. 

■  Creamed. — Wash  and  cut  asparagus  in  inch  pieces  until  the  hard  part  of  the 
stem  is  reached,  stew  15  minutes  in  slightly  salted  water;  then  drain  in  a  colan- 
der.   Make  a  rich  cream  sauce  and  pour  over.    Or  use  drawn  butter. 

Steamed. — There  is  another  method  of  boiling  asparagus,  rarely  practised  by 


VEGETABLES.  159 

American  cooks.  It  is  to  take  the  stouter  varieties,  cut  them  of  exactly  equal 
lengths,  and  stand  them  on  end  in  a  deep  sauce-pan,  with  the  heads  projecting 
about  2  inches  out  of  the  water;  then  cook  30  to  40  minutes.  By  this  plan  at  least 
%  more  of  the  stalk  will  be  rendered  delicious,  while  the  head  will .  be  properly 
cooked  by  the  steam.  Then  season,  and  serve.  This  is  especially  adapted  to  the 
"giant"  and  stouter  varieties. 

Asparagus  is  a  native  of  Europe,  and  is  sometimes  vulgarly  called  sparrowgrass.  It  is 
wholesome,  but  not  very  nutritious,  and  has  been  used  in  medicine,  being  a  diuretic,  and 
aperient.  The  cellular  tissue  contains  a  substance  similar  to  sago.  Its  juice  is  composed 
of  a  peculiar  crystallizable  principle  called  asparagin,  albumen,  mannite,  malic  acid  and 
some  salts. 

To  avoid  getting  the  woody  white  part,  which  is  not  made  tender  by  boiling,  asparagus 
when  gathered  can  be  snapped  off,  instead  of  cutting  it. 

BEANS. 

Shelled.— Shell,  wash  and  boil  until  tender,  adding  salt  after  they  have  boiled 
about  10  minutes.  If  possible,  always  cook  them  in  soft  water.  They  should 
boil  at  least  an  hour.  Season  with  salt  and  butter.  Add  hot  cream  to  Lima  or 
any  white  beans. 

French  Beans. — Soak  them  over  night,  then  parboil  them  until  the  skins 
loosen,  change  the  water,  and  when  they  are  cool,  rub  off  all  the  skins;  put  them 
back  in  the  pot  with  fresh  water  to  just  cover  them,  and  boil  until  they  begin  to 
break  in  pieces;  then  drain,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and  bits 
of  butter.    Set  the  dish  in  the  oven  to  get  hot;  then  send  to  the  table. 

String  Beans. — The  bean  pods  should  be  tender  enough  to  snap  off  short 
when  bent.  Pull  off  the  string  on  each  side,  and  break  in  pieces  %  inch  long. 
Boil  in  slightly  salted  water.  A  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  can  be  put  in  or  not, 
as  desired.  It  takes  a  full  hour  to  cook  them  well,  and  may  take  3  with  some 
varieties.  Drain,  and  season  with  butter  and  pepper,  or  butter  and  cream,  and  a 
little  more  salt  if  needed.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  change  the  water  once  while  they 
are  boiling,  as  that  gets  rid  of  part  of  an  unwholesome  gas  which  they  yield  in 
boiling. 

Delicious  Baked  Beans. — Take  about  3  pints  of  the  small  white  beans,  wash, 
and  then  soak  them  over  night.  Do  not  boil,  but  put  at  once  in  the  baking  dish 
and  add  a  piece  of  salt  pork  that  has  been  scalded,  or  if  beef  is  preferred,  use  a 
piece  of  the  brisket.  Add  salt,  and  a  little  pepper,  and  2  or  3  tablespoons  of 
molasses.  Place  in  the  oven,  with  plenty  of  water  to  cover,  early  in  the  morning, 
and  let  cook  all  day.  Do  not  allow  them  to  cook  dry.  A  teaspoon  of  mustard  is 
sometimes  added  with  the  molasses;  it  adds  to  both  the  flavor  and  wholesome- 
ness  of  the  beans  when  done. 

New  England  Baked  Beans. — Pick  over  and  wash,  1  pint  of  beans,  put  them 
into  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  The  following  morn- 
ing drain  off  all  the  water,  and  put  them  into  an  earthen  bean  pot — which  comes 
for  this  purpose— with  2  tablespoons  of  molasses,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little 
pepper,  half  a  pound  salt  pork — quite  fat — and  fill  the  pot  up  with  boiling  water 
and  bake  from  8  to  10  hours  in  good  steady  oven;  keep  the  pot  well  filled  with 
water,  till  2  hours  before  serving,  and  then  allow  it  to  simmer  away  one-half  at 
least.    You  will  find  them  delicious  if  directions  are  strictly  followed. 

Beans  are  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  the  East,  particularly  of  Egypt,  but  have  been 
known  in  Europe  from  time  immemorial,  having,  in  all  probability,  been  introduced  by  the 
Romans.  The  commondwarf  kidney  bean,  erroneously  called  the  French  bean,  is  a  tender 
annual,  a  native  of  India,  and  was  introduced  into  Europe  in  1597,  or  perhaps  earlier.  All 
varieties  of  the  bean  are  wholesome  and  nutritious,  but  are  not  suitable  to  persons  with 
delicate  stomachs  or  of  sedentary  habits.  They  are  best  eaten  with  fatty  or  starchy  foods, 
like  bacon  or  rice.  If  bean  flour  was  to  be  had  as  wheat  flour  is,  a  much  larger  proportion 
of  the  nutrient  parts  of  beans  could  be  assimilated,  experiment  having  shown  that  91%  of 


160  VEGETABLES. 

bean  flour  was  digested,  and  only  i0%  of  the  nutritive  parts  were  assimilated  as  ordinarily 
prepared.  If  beans  are  well  cooked  and  passed  through  a  sieve,  it  will  divest  them  of  their 
indigestible  skins,  or  cellulose. 

The  pulses,  which  include  lentils,  beans  and  peas,  are  among  the  most  nourishing  of 
foods.  Owing  to  the  large  amount  of  nitrogenous  matter  which  they  contain,  they  should 
be  accompanied,  when  eaten,  with  articles  in  which  fat  and  starch  abound.  The  nutritive 
value  of  these  articles  is  somewhat  deteriorated  Dy  theifact  that  they  are  rather  difficult  of 
digestion.  They  sometimes  occasion  flatulence,  and  have  a  stimulating,  heating  effect  on 
the  system.  They  should  never  be  eaten  without  being  thoroughly  cooked.  Green  peas 
are  more  digestible  but  less  nourishing  than  dried,  which  require  prolonged  boiling  to 
make  them  digestible.  Dried  peas  should  always  be  boiled  in  soft  water,  for  the  longer 
they  are  boiled  in  hard  water,  the  harder  they  become.  A  little  bicarbonate  of  soda, 
(cooking  soda)  may  be  added  to  the  water  in  which  dried  peas  and  beans  are  cooked,  as 
this  assists  in  softening  the  legumen.  It  may  also  be  added  to  stale  green  peas,  but  it 
impairs  the  color  of  fresh,  tender,  green  peas  and  beans,  and  is  not  needed  for  softening 
purposes. 

BEETS. 

Boiled. — These  should  be  washed  clean,  and  the  tops  and  tips  cut  closely,  but 
do  not  peel  them  nor  prick  the  skin,  as  the  juice  will  then  escape  and  injure  both 
the  color  and  flavor.  Cook  until  tender  in  boiling  water.  Young  beets  will  cook  in 
about  an  hour;  fully  grown  ones  take  2  to  4  hours;  the  very  largest  are  not  suit- 
able for  the  table,  as  they  are  apt  to  be  tough  and  tasteless.  When  done,  put  in 
cold  water  and  rub  off  the  rind;  then  slice,  put  in  a  vegetable  dish,  and  cover 
with  vinegar;  or  serve  with  a  butter  or  white  sauce.  For  a  "boiled  dinner"  cook 
them  by  themselves;  they  are  peeled  after  cooking,  cut  in  slices,  and  served  with- 
out dressing.  They  are  also  cut  in  fancy  pieces  and  used  to  garnish  various 
dishes.    They  are  also  used  for  salads  mixed  with  other  vegetables. 

Creamed  Beets. — When  boiled  in  unsalted  water  until  tender,  rub  off  the  skins 
with  a  wet  towel,  and  serve  at  once  in  hot  cream  sauce,  which  can  be  made  while 
they  are  boiling.    (See  "Cream  Sauce.") 

Beet  Greens. — Beet  greens  are  boiled  whole,  the  beets  with  the  tops,  while  they 

are  tender.    Put  into  slightly  salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  an  hour.    When 

the  little  beets  are  done,  the  tops  are  done  also.     Sometimes  thin  slices  of  salt 

pork  are  cooked  with  them.    When  done,  take  up  into  a  colander  and  drain  well, 

cut  through  several  times  with  a  knife,  so  that  they  can  be  served  with  a  spoon, 

and  send  to  the  table  in  a  vegetable  dish.    They  are  usually  eaten  with  vinegar. 

If  no  pork  is  boiled  with  them,  they  can  be  seasoned  with  a  little  butter,  and  a 

very  little  vinegar,  about  a  tablespoon  to  a  medium-sized  vegetable  dish.    They 

can  be  served  hot  or  cold. 

The  beet  root  is  a  native  of  the  shores  of  the  Mediterranean.  It  is  very  wholesome 
and  nutritious,  and  is  chiefly  characterized  by  the  large  amount  of  starch,  sugar,  and  alka- 
line salts  which  it  contains. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

Boiled. — Pick  off  all  dead  or  discolored  leaves,  and  soak  in  cold  salted  water  1 
hour  before  cooking;  then  put  them  in  boiling  water  containing  a  little  salt  and 
soda,  the  latter  to  preserve  their  green  color;  leave  the  kettle  uncovered,  and  boil 
briskly  until  tender.  Drain  and  send  to  the  table  at  once,  as  they  cool  quickly. 
Serve  with  melted  butter  or  maitre  d'hotel  sauce. 

Sauted. — Takel  qt.  of  sprouts,  remove  loose,  hanging  leaves,  and  soak  ^  hour 

in  cold  water;  then  wash  and  boil  %  hour  in  2  qts.  of  water,  adding  1  teaspoon  of 

salt,  after  the  first  10  minutes;  then  drain  off  all  the  water,  and  add  3  tablespoons 

of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  flour,  }£  teaspoon  of  pepper,  and  1 

teaspoon  of  salt;  shake  the  pan  over  the  fire  3  or  1  minutes,  or  until  the  sprouts 

are  slightly  colored.     Serve  at  once  in  a  warm  dish. 

Brussels  Sprouts  is  a  variety  of  the  cabbage,  and  is  so  named  because  the  seed  was  ob- 
tained from  Belgium  in  former  times.  It  grows  from  3  to  5  feet  in  height,  the  stalk  ter- 
minating in  a  large,  cabbage-like  head,  and  the  stem  being  covered  with  the  sprouts. 

CABBAGE. 

Baked. — Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  for  15  minutes,  changing  the  water  once; 


VEGETABLES.  161 

drain  and  set  aside  until  cold;  then  chop  finely,  and  add2  beaten  eggs,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  stir  all  together  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
pudding-dish  until  brown.  This  is  economical,  good  and  nourishing.  It  is  some- 
times covered  with  bread-crumbs,  moistened  with  white  sauce,  and  then  baked. 

Boiled. — Cut  it  in  quarters,  soak  30  minutes  in  salted  water;  then  boil  rapidly, 
uncovered,  until  tender,  but  no  longer,  in  slightly  salted  water;  push  it  down 
with  a  spoon  as  it  rises  above  the  water;  it  should  boil  in  about  25  to  30  minutes. 
When  done,  take  it  up,  drain,  put  it  in  a  vegetable  dish,  and  put  bits  of  butter 
over  it  with  a  little  salt.  Remember  that  the  secret  of  boiling  cabbage  is  to  boil 
it  rapidly,  uncovered,  and  in  plenty  of  water,  and  boil  until  tender,  but  no  longer. 
If  boiled  longer  it  becomes  wilted,  yellow,  and  looses  flavor.  Try  cabbage  thus 
cooked  and  see  how  much  better  it  is  than  when  cooked  in  the  old  way.  If  the 
Water  it  is  boiled  in  is  not  very  soft,  add  to  each  4  quarts  of  water  1  saltspoon  of 
baking  soda,  but  no  more. 

Fried. — Chop  cold  white  cabbage  quite  fine;  stir  in  some  melted  butter  to 
taste,  pepper  and  salt,  and  4  tablespoons  of  milk  or  cream;  after  it  is  heated 
through  add  1  or  2  well-beaten  eggs,  according  to  quantity  of  cabbage;  then  turn 
the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  spider,  and  fry  about  5  minutes,  or  until  a  light 
brown  on  the  under  side.  Place  a  hot  dish  over  the  pan,  which  must  be  reversed 
when  turned  out  to  serve. 

Cabbage  and  Milk. — Cut  the  cabbage  into  very  fine  slices,  take  out  the  coarser 
veins  carefully;  put  it  in  a  tin  sauce-pan,  over  a  slow  fire,  add  milk  enough  to 
cover  entirely,  and  simmer  very  slowly  2  hours.  Grate  some  nutmeg  over  it  be- 
fore serving,  and  add  a  good  sized  lump  of  butter.  Thus  cooked  its  coarseness 
disappears,  and  it  almost  equals  cauliflower.  Very  few  people  know  how  good  it 
is  thus  prepared. 

The  botanical  order,  Cruciferce,  is  a  most  important  one,  in  furnishing  various  nitro- 
genous, and  therefore  highly  nutritious  dishes  for  our  use;  cabbage,  cale,  cauliflower, 
brocoli,  Brussels  sprouts,  turnips,  all  belong  to  this  order.  For  salads  and  relishes  we  have 
cresses:  pepper-grass,  scurvy-grass,  wild  pepper-root,  radishes,  horseradish  and  cardamine. 
Cabbage  contains  90%  of  water,  and  is  more  wholesome  than  nourishing.    Ite  tendency  is  to 


purify  the  blood,  and  it  is  a  particularly  serviceable  in  cases  of  skin  disease,  but  should  be 
idee"  \ 

jpe 
than  when  cooked.    Cabbage  and  cauliflower  contain  more  gluten  than  other  vegetables, 


avoided  by  all  who  are  subject  to  flatulence  and  diarrhoea.    It  is  long  in  digesting,  and  is 
best  fitted  for  robust  and  active  persons.    Cabbage  eaten  raw  as  a  salad  is  more  wholesome 


and  for  that  reason  they  should  be  eaten  with  fatty  foods.    A  mild  acid,  like  vinegar,  aids 
their  digestion. 

A  Hint.— The  young  white  leaves  of  a  white-hearted  cabbage  chopped  fine,  are  a  fairly 
good  substitute  for  lettuce  when  the  latter  is  scarce. 

CARROTS. 

Boiled. — Wash,  scrape,  not  pare,  cut  into  strips,  barely  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  boil  put  in  a  little  butter;  as  soon  as  tender 
add  some  minced  parsley  and  serve.  They  need  to  boil  longer  than  most  vegeta- 
bles.   They  are  often  boiled  with  corned  beef. 

Another  way  is  to  cut,  lengthwise,  boil  until  soft  and  slice  thin.  Put  in  sauce- 
pan with  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
a  little  sugar;  stew  15  minutes  and  serve. 

Carrots  With  Cream. — Cut  the  carrots  in  thin  slices;  boil  until  almost  tender 
in  water;  then  pour  the  water  off  and  add  butter;  fry  them  a  little;  then  add  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  cream;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  very  hot.      Excellent. 

Carrots  grow  in  all  parts  of  the  globe.  They  are  one  of  the  most  important  vegetables 
used  in  domestic  cookery,  and  their  flavor  renders  them  valuable  in  soups,  stews  and 
sauces,  but  they  are  not  particularly  nourishing  as  it  requires  2  B>s.  of  carrots  to  produce  1 
oz.  of  the  nitrogenous  substance  of  muscle  and  flesh.  They  contain  pectine  (a  gelatinous 
substance)  instead  of  starch,  and  hence  soups  containing  them  become  gelatinous  when 
cold.  For  1  part  of  flesh-formers  they  contain  10  of  heat-givers. 
11 


162  VEGETABLES. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boiled. — Cut  the  stem  where  it  begins  to  branch,  place  it,  head  down,  in  cold 
salted  water  for  an  hour;  this  will  take  out  hidden  insects  if  there  are  any;  rinse 
it  up  and  down  several  times.  Put  in  a  kettle  with  enough  slightly  salted  boiling 
water  to  cover,  and  boil  till  tender.  Do  not  let  the  water  bubble  and  boil  so 
violently  as  to  make  the  cauliflower  jump  ..about,  as  that  will  break  it.  It  is 
sometimes  tied  in  a  muslin  bag;  if  not,  skim  the  water.  When  done,  put  it  in  a 
colander  to  drain  well,  and  at  the  same  time  keep  it  hot.  Then  cut  it  coarsely 
with  a  knife,  put  it  in  a  vegetable  dish,  put  a  few  lumps  of  butter  over  it,  and 
send  to  the  table.  Or  instead  of  the  butter  pour  over  either  a  bechamel,  Hol- 
landaise  or  cream  sauce.  It  is  used  also  for  garnishing  chicken  or  sweetbreads,  or 
for  salads. 

Baked. — Boil  as  directed  above.    Then  put  in  a  baking-dish,  pour  over  a  thick 

drawn  butter  sauce,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  until 

brown.    Sprinkle  on  grated  cheese,  also,  before  baking,  if  desired. 

Cauliflower  and  Brocoli  are  only  forms  of  the  wild  cabbage  in  its  cultivated  state; 
the  white  and  purple  brocoli  are  only  varieties  of  the  cauliflower.  Cauliflower  has  been 
known  since  the  times  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans.  It  is  a  wholesome,  but  not  particularly 
nourishing,  article  of  food;  it  is  difficult  of  digestion,  and  ought  to  be  avoided  by  those  who 
have  delicate  stomachs,  but,  on  the  whole,  it  is  less  indigestible  and  richer  in  flesh-formers 
than  cabbage. 

CELERY. 

Many  people  throw  away  the  outside  green  stalks  of  celery,  not  knowing  that 
it  makes  a  very  savory  dish  when  stewed.  Take  all  the  fine  white  stalks,  wash 
well  and  serve;  the  remainder  break  into  short  pieces,  pulling  off  all  the  stringy 
outside.  Put  the  pieces  in  a  stew-pan,  cover  well  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  % 
hour.    Make  a  cream  or  drawn  butter  sauce,  pour  it  over  the  celery,  and  serve. 

Baked. — Take  a  qt.  of  veal  stock,  and,  having  parboiled  a  proper  amount  of 
the  stalks,  put  them  into  a  baking-dish.  Rub  together  2  spoonfuls  of  butter  and 
2  of  flour,  smoothly,  then  beat  in  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  stir  these  into  the  veal 
broth,  and  pour  it  over  the  celery.  Lastly,  cover  the  top  with  finely  grated 
bread  crumbs,  and  then  with  grated  cheese.  Bake  10  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 
This  is  one  of  the  most  delicious  forms  in  which  celery  can  be  put  upon  the  table. 

Fried. — After  cutting  it  into  inch  lengths,  and  boiling  till  tender  in  slightly 

salted  water,  dip  the  pieces  in  fritter  batter  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Garnish 

with  parsley,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce.    Or  sprinkle  the  pieces  with  salt  and 

nutmeg;  then  egg  and  bread-crumb  them  and  fry  the  same  way;  drain  on  a  sieve 

and  serve  on  a  napkin. 

Celery  grows  wild  nearly  all  over  Europe,  growing  chiefly  in  ditches  and  marshes  near 
the  sea,  and  when  wild  is  called  >Smallaye .  Smallage  was  first  cultivated  by  Italian  gardeners 
and  theTesult  of  their  labors  was  the  production  of  2plants,  Celery  and  Celeriac.  The  latter 
variety  (often,  also,  called  German  or  knob  celery)  is  turnip-shaped,  and  large,  and  is  ex- 
tensively used  by  the  Germans,  who  prefer  it  to  the  variety  we  commonly  use.  In  its  raw 
state,  it  is  not  suited  to  persons  of  weak  stomachs,  but  is  more  easily  digested  when  cooked. 
Celery  has  medicinal  properties,  and  is  used  as  a  corrector  of  bilious  conditions,  and  as  a 
tonic  for  the  nervous  system.  It  contains  about  93  per  cent,  of  water,  1  of  albumen,  2  of 
sugar,  1  of  mineral  matter,  and  2  of  starch,  etc. 

COI.CANNON. 

Take  equal  parts  of  cold  cabbage  and  cold  potatoes;  cut  all  together 
well,  with  a  knife;  fry  salt-pork,  and  when  the  pork  is  crisp,  put  the  cab- 
bage and  potato  into  the  fat;  season  with  pepper,  and  a  little  more  salt,  if  needed; 
cover  closely  with  a  plate  and  let  it  steam  in  the  pan  for  %  hour.  Do  not  stir  it 
until  you  take  it  up,  then  stir  all  together,  and  serve  hot,  with  the  pieces  of  crisp 
pork  around  the  edge  of  the  platter.    A  little  onion  may  be  added  to  this  if  liked. 

CORN. 

Boiled. — Green  corn  when  in  proper  condition  for  boiling  should  be  well  filled 


VEGETABLES.  163 

out,  but  still  in  the  milk,  so  that  it  will  exude  freely  when  pressed  with  the  nail. 
It  should  be  put  when  freshly  gathered  into  slightly  salted  boiling  water,  and  as 
soon  as  its  milk  thickens,  and  the  raw  taste  is  gone,  it  should  be  taken  up,  as 
longer  cooking  hardens  it  and  injures  its  flavor.  Corn  for  fritters,  puddings, 
etc.,  may  be  a  trifle  older,  but  never  out  of  the  milk. 

To  cut  corn  from  the  cob  the  best  way  is  to  stand  it  on  the  small  end,  and 
with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  about  half  the  kernel;  then  with  the  back  of  the  knife 
press  and  scrape  out  the  remainder  with  a  downward  stroke.  If  scraped  with 
the  sharp  edge  it  will  carry  many  of  the  hulls  with  it,  and  they  are  not  wanted. 
This  is  the  best  method  of  cutting  off  corn  for  canning  or  any  purpose. 

Dried  Corn. — Select  corn  that  is  right  for  boiling,  and  boil  5  minutes  in 
slightly  salted  water;  then  cut  and  scrape  from  the  cob  as  above,  and  dry  in  the 
oven  in  shallow  pans  or  on  plates.  Pack  in  paper  bags,  and  hang  in  a  dry  place 
or  it  will  mold.  It  sours  easily,  and  the  drying  process  should  not  be  long.  To 
use  it,  soak  over  night,  and  then  cook  like  green  corn.  Season  with  butter, 
cream,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  serve. 

Baked  Corn. — Take  48  full  ears  of  sweet  corn,  cut  and  scrape  from  the  ears  as 
above,  and  then  pound  in  a  mortar;  add  (according  to  the  juiciness  of  the  corn) 
3  or  4  cups  of  milk,  4  well  beaten  eggs,  %  teacup  butter,  the  same  of  flour  rubbed 
fine  in  a  little  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste.  Pour  into  a  well 
greased  earthen  dish,  bake  2  hours  till  browned  on  top,  and  place  on  the  table 
hot.    Eat  with  plenty  of  fresh  butter. 

Corn  Chowder. — Take  1  can  of  corn,  or  the  same  amount  of  green  corn  cut 
from  the  cob,  2  oz.  pork  fried  brown  and  chopped,  6  potatoes  sliced  thin,  1% 
quarts  water;  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done;  then  add  2  cups  milk,  and  butter 
and  salt  to  taste. 

Escaloped  Corn. — Cut  corn  from  the  cob,  spread  a  layer  in  a  basin,  season,  put 
on  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  season,  and  so  on  with  alternate  layers,  seasoning 
each  layer;  then  fill  the  dish  with  rich  milk  in  which  a  little  soda  is  dissolved, 
and  bake  1  hour. 

Fried  Corn.  —Select  roasting  ears,  cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  put  it  in  a  large  pie-tin  containing  hot  butter,  set  where  it  will  cook 
slowly,  stirring  it  often.  If  it  should  stick  to  the  pan  add  a  very  little  water,  but 
not  otherwise. 

Corn  Oysters. — Cut  the  corn  from  6  ears,  add  to  it  1  well  beaten  egg,  1  table- 
spoon of  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  then  flour  enough  to  make  a  pretty  stiff 
batter;   drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  into  smoking  hot  fat,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 

Green  Corn  Pudding. — Take  the  pulp  from  2  doz.  ears  of  corn,  1%  quarts  of 
new  milk,  2  crackers  rolled  fine,  3  eggs,  2  teacups  sugar,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  the 
crackers  with  the  milk,  then  put  in  the  corn  and  other  ingredients;  bake  slowly 
2%  hours.     Serve  warm  with  butter  and  pepper. 

Corn  Souffle. — Take  2  cups  of  canned  corn,  2  cups  of  milk,  2  eggs,  salt  to  taste. 
Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light;  add  the  other  ingredients;  put  the  mixture  in  a 
buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  about  40  minutes. 

Stewed  Corn.  — Cut  young  corn  from  the  ear,  put  it  in  a  basin,  cover  it  with 
milk,  and  cook  %  hour,  stirring  it  frequently;  then  season  to  taste,  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  add  some  rich  cream  in  which  a  little  corn-starch  is  stirred,  and 
serve. 

Succotash. — Boil  or  steam  the  corn  and  cut  it  from  the  cob;  allow  2  cups  corn 


164  VEGETABLES. 

for  1  cup  beans.  Any  good,  fresh,  shelled  beans  may  be  used;  they  should  be 
boiled  by  themselves,  in  slightly  salted  water,  until  they  begin  to  break;  then 
drain  them  in  the  colander,  mix  them  with  the  corn,  and  season  to  taste,  with 
cream,  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Indian  corn  is  a  native  of  America,  where  it  was  cultivated  by  the  aborigines  before 
the  discovery  of  America  by  Columbus.  There  are  many  varieties  of  the  plant,  and  the 
grains  vary  in  color,  but  the  yellow  is  the  most  common.  Although  it  is  deficient  in  gluten 
it  is  richer  than  other  grains  in  oily  and  fatty  matter;  but  the  constituent  elements  of 
the  different  varieties  vary  a  good  deal.  It  is  highly  nutritious,  and  rivals  rice  and  sugar 
cane  in  its  importance  to  the  human  family.  It  is  a  very  important  article  of  consumption 
alike  for  man  and  beast.  Owing  to  its  lack  of  gluten  it  is  not  sufficiently  sticky  to  hold 
together  well,  and  so  does  not  make  good  bread.  Oornmeal  is  not  suitable  for  an  exclusive 
diet,  but  it  makes  a  very  valuable  addition  to  our  food  resources,  and  is  more  fattening 
than  wheat  flour. 

CUCUMBERS. 

These  are  usually  served  raw,  cut  in  slices,  and  served  with  pepper,  salt  and 
vinegar,  and  onions  are  sometimes  added.  Three  or  4  hours  before  serving  they 
should  be  peeled,  sliced  and  placed  in  a  large  bowl  of  water  to  stand  1  or  2  hours; 
then  the  water  should  be  poured  off,  and  fresh,  cold  water  added,  and  just  before 
sending  to  the  table,  the  water  should  be  changed  again.  Serve  in  salad  dishes, 
and  send  around  with  them  salt,  black  pepper,  vinegar  and  oil,  to  be  added  by 
each  person  as  preferred.  Thus  served,  they  are  not  so  likely  to  prove  indigesti- 
ble as  when  served,  as  they  sometimes  are,  by  slicing  wilted  cucumbers  a  few 
minutes  before  a  meal,  sending  to  the  table  in  the  first  water  they  are  placed  in, 
and  strong  vinegar  and  salt  added  to  that,  which  causes  them  to  wilt  still  more; 
served  in  the  latter  way,  it  is  no  wonder  that  people  say,  "I  cannot  eat  cucumbers 
— they  always  distress  me." 

Boiled. — After  paring  the  cucumbers,  and  slicing  about  %  inch  thick,  boil 
them  about  12  minutes  in  slightly  salted  water,  containing  a  little  vinegar.  Serve 
with  drawn  butter  or  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Fried. — Peel  and  slice  them,  and  soak  in  cold  water  an  hour;  this  takes  out 
the  gummy  qualities  of  the  plant;  then  drain,  and  dry  the  slices  on  a  cloth;  dip 
the  pieces  in  egg,  then  in  flour,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  salt  pork  gravy. 

Stewed. — Peel  and  slice  fresh  young  cucumbers,  and  soak  them  an  hour  in  cold 

water;  then  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  them,  and 

let  them  boil  until  soft;  then  take  off  the  cover,  to  let  them  dry  down  a  little, 

dredge  in  a  little  flour,  to  thicken  the  water  they  were  stewed  in,  add  a  piece  of 

butter,  with  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.    Sweet  cream  can  be  used  instead  of 

butter,  if  one  has  it,  and  it  is  much  better. 

The  cucumber  is  a  native  of  Asia,  and  it  has  been  cultivated  from  very  early  times.  It 
is  not  very  nutritious,  and,  generally  speaking,  it  is  not  suited  to  weak  stomachs,  as  it  is 
indigestible  and  disagrees  with  many  when  eaten  raw,  but  when  stewed,  it  is  light  and 
wholesome.  It  contains  about  96  per  cent,  of  water,  some  grape  sugar,  and  a  little  volatile 
flavoring  matter. 

EGG  PLANT. 

Baked. — Pare,  slice  and  boil  till  tender,  in  slightly  salted  water;  then  drain, 
mash,  and  add  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little 
butter  and  minced  parsley;  beat  together,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  top,  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 

Fried.— Cut  in  slices  without  paring,  sprinkle   on  salt,  pile  them  up,  and 

weight  them  with  a  flat-iron  or  other  weight;  let  stand  about  an  hour  and  it  will 

squeeze  out  much  of  their  bitter  flavor;  rinse  them  off  in  cold  water,  drain,  dip  ir» 

cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry  brown 

in  a  frying-pan.     It  is  sometimes  dipped  in  batter  and  then  fried. 

Egg  plant  belongs  to  the  order  Solanacece,  which  includes  also  tobacco  and  potatoes. 
All  varieties  of  this  order  contain  a  bitter,  more  or  less  poisonous  juice.    The  egg  plant  is 


VEGETABLES.  165 

indigenous  to  the  East  Indies.    There  are  several  varieties,  one  of  which  is  the  Dead  Sea 
apple. 

ENDIVE  AND  SUCCORY. 

Stewed  Endive. — Wash,  and  free  6  heads  of  endive  thoroughly  from  insects, 
remove  the  green  part  of  the  leaves,  and  put  it  into  boiling  water  slightly  salted. 
Let  it  remain  for  10  minutes;  then  take  it  out,  drain  until  there  is  no  water  re- 
maining, and  chop  it  very  fine.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with  1  pint  of  broth;  add 
a  little  salt,  and  a  lump  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  the  endive  is  perfectly  tender. 
When  done,  which  may  be  ascertained  by  squeezing  a  piece  between  the  thumb 
and  finger,  add  a  thickening  of  butter  and  flour,  and  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice; 
let  the  sauce  boil  up,  and  serve. 

Endive  is  said  to  be  a  native  of  China  and  Japan.  It  has  long  been  cultivated  as  a  gar- 
den vegetable,  and  used  for  salads  and  soups.  It  is  slightly  narcotic,  and  has  a  bitter  tasto, 
on  account  of  which  some  people  dislike  it  very  much  while  those  who  like  it  call  it  a  fine 
bitter. 

The  Succory  or  Chicory  belongs  to  the  same  order  (the  Composites)  and  the  leaves  are 
blanched  and  used  for  salads,  while  the  root  is  used  to  adulterate  coffee. 

GREENS. 

Dandelions  are  most  commonly  used  for  greens,  either  alone  or  mixed  with  other 
herbs,  as  plantain,  young  milk-weeds,  scurvy-grass,  beet-tops,  horseradish  tops, 
and  the  young  shoots  of  poke  or  gorget;  the  roots  of  the  latter  plant  are  a  violent 
cathartic,  and  should  never  be  used.  Wash  and  examine  all  herbs  used  for  greens, 
and  then  boil  them  till  tender  in  slightly  salted  water.  A  little  baking  soda 
added  to  the  water  in  which  greens  are  cooked  will  preserve  their  color,  and  it 
also  softens  the  cellulose.  Salt  pork  is  commonly  boiled  with  them,  but  they  are 
rather  more  wholesome  boiled  without  it.  When  done,  drain  them  in  a  colander, 
and  while  draining  cut  them  through  and  through  in  every  way,  to  facilitate  serving 
them;  then  put  them  on  a  platter,  season  with  butter  and  salt,  and  send  vinegar 
around  with  them.  If  salt  pork  is  boiled  with  them,  slice  it,  and  use  it  to  garnish 
the  greens  instead  of  the  butter.  Greens  are  usually  eaten  in  the  spring,  and  are 
chiefly  valuable  for  their  alkaline  salts  and  water. 

EOHLBABI. 

Peel,  cut  it  in  two,  and  then  slice  thin;  put  into  salted  water,  parboil,  and  then 

drain;  then  stew  it  in  some  weak  broth;  when  nearly  done,  shred  some  of  the 

green  leaves  growing  at  the  top,  and  add  them;  they  will  tinge  it  a  light  green. 

When  tender,  drain  out  the  kohlrabi.    Make  a  bechamel  sauce  with  the  liquid  in 

which  it  cooked,  pour  it  over  the  vegetable,  let  it  get  hot,  and  serve. 

Kohlrabi  is  a  cultivated  variety  of  the  cabbage,  distinguished  by  the  swelling  in  a 
globular  form  of  that  part  of  the  stem  which  is  just  above  the  ground.  This  protuberance 
is  the  part  used,  its  uses  being  similar  to  the  turnip.  It  is  only  fit  to  use  when  young,  being 
then  wholesome,  nutritious  and  palatable;  later  it  contains  much  indigestible  fibrous  mat- 
ter.   It  is  very  valuable,  also,  as  food  for  cattle.  • 

LETTUCE. 

If  lettuce  has  become  wilted  in  the  market,  let  it  stand  with  the  stems  in  a 
bowl  of  cold  water,  for  several  hours  before  using,  to  become  crisp  again.  Just 
before  serving,  wash  carefully,  then  shake  off  the  water,  tear  it  in  small  pieces,  as 
it  is  more  convenient  to  serve  in  that  way.  It  should  never  be  cut  with  a  knife. 
Pile  it  in  a  glass  dish,  and  serve  on  salad  dishes,  or  small  plates.  Vinegar  and 
sugar  is  sometimes  used  for  a  dressing,  or  oil  and  vinegar,  salt  alone,  French 
salad  dressing,  or  mayonnaise,  if  preferred.  It  is  delicious  served  with  lemon 
juice,  using  sugar  also  if  liked. 

Fried. — Chop  lettuce  and  the  tops  of  2  onions  fine,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  put 
a  little  salad  oil  or  butter  into  a  frying-pan;  and  pour  in  the  mixture  well  beaten; 
cover,  stir  up  when  well  heated,  and  serve  with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  or  without 
either,  according  to  taste. 


166  VEGETABLES. 

Steamed. — Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  add  vinegar  and  1  well 
beaten  egg;  stir  well  together,  and  add  the  leaves  from  2  large  heads  of  lettuce, 
cover,  and  let  it  steam  until  the  lettuce  is  well  wilted;  serve  hot. 

Lettuce  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  the  East  Indies,  but  it  has  been  cultivated  in 
Europe  from  very  early  times.  It  is  wholesome  and  has  a  particularly  pleasant  taste.  It 
is  said  to  have  a  sedative  action  oa  the  nervous  system,  which  allays  pain  and  induces 
sleep.  Those  who  have  no  tendency  to  apoplexy,  and  who  are  troubled  with  wakefulness 
may  be  recommended  to  eat  lettuce  at  supper.  It  contains  little  nutriment,  being  96% 
water.    It  contains  about  1%  of  mineral  matters  (especially  nitre),  which  are  useful. 

MACARONI  AND  SPAGHETTI. 

Boiling  Macaroni. — Do  not  wash  macaroni,  as  that  extracts  part  of  its 
nutrients.  After  breaking  it  into  suitable  lengths  put  it  into  plenty 
of  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  and  boil  actively  until  it  is  done;  most  cook 
books  say  to  boil  it  15  to  20  minutes,  but  you  will  find  it  better  if  you  boil  it  % 
to  %.  hour,  but  do  not  boil  it  too  long  or  it  will  lose  its  nutritive  qualities;  then 
drain  in  a  colander,  pour  on  cold  water,  which  will  prevent  its  sticking,  then 
spread  the  strips  beside  each  other  and  cut  them  all  at  once  into  pieces  about  an 
inch  long,  which  is  better  than  leaving  them  in  unwieldly  lengths. 

Baked  Macaroni. — Boil  and  prepare  as  above  directed;  then  butter  a  baking- 
dish,  put  in  the  macaroni,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  pour  a  little  melted  butter 
on  top,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  5  minutes,  and  serve. 

Fried  Macaroni. — Boil  the  macaroni  as  above,  and  grate  cheese.  Take  the 
cold  macaroni,  make  it  into  little  balls  with  the  cheese,  egg  and  bread-crumb 
them,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat  to  a  rich  brown. 

Macaroni  with  Cheese. — Boil  34  R>-  and  prepare  as  above  directed;  then  make 
a  sauce  with  1%  cups  hot  milk,  and  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour,  and  salt 
to  taste.  Then  in  the  bottom  of  the  baking-dish  put  a  layers  of  grated  cheese,  put 
on  a  layer  of  macaroni,  and  cover  with  the  sauce;  then  others  layer  of  cheese, 
macaroni  and  sauce;  put  fine  bread  crumbs  on  top.  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  a 
little  grated  cheese,  and  bake  until  the  top  is  browned. 

Macaroni  with  Milk  Sauce. — Boil  and  prepare  the  macaroni  as  above;  make 
a  sauce  with  1  cup  milk  thickened  with  a  dessertspoon  of  butter  and  flour  rubbed 
together  and  a  little  salt;  after  it  has  boiled  a  few  moments  drop  in  the  macaroni, 
and  in  5  minutes,  dish  up  and  serve. 

Spaghetti. — Boil  this  the  same  as  macaroni,  only  it  does  not  need  to  cook 
quite  as  long,  and  drain  and  pour  on  cold  water  the  same.  Cut  it  or  not  as  you 
prefer.  It  can  be  treated  otherwise  much  the  same  as  macaroni.  The  same 
rules  apply  to  vermicelli. 

Macaroni  is  a  particular  form  of  wheaten  flour.  It  is  made  by  selecting  the  finest  flour, 
making  it  into  a  paste  with  water,  then  pressing  it  through  holes  or  molds  in  a  metal  plate, 
or  stamping  it  to  the  desired  form,  then  drying  or  baking  it.    When  properly  dressed  it  is 

?leasant  and  wholesome,  but  not  so  easy  of  digestion  as  some  other  wheaten  preparations, 
t  is  nutritious,  however,  and  if  well  cooked  deserves  an  extensive  use.  Butter  and  cheese 
go  well  with  it,  as  the  butter  supplies  the  fat  it  lacks,  and  cheese  adds  the  albumenoid 
element  in  its  casein. 

Vermicelli  and  Spaghetti  are  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  macaroni,  only  they  are 
pressed  through  smaller  holes,  making  them  a  little  smaller  round. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Fried. — This  is  the  simplest  form  of  cooking  them.  Peel  the  mushrooms,  cut 
off  the  stalks,  and  place  them  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter;  fry  gently  till 
they  are  quite  tender,  season  with  a  little  pepper,  and  pour  the  contents  of  the 
frying-pan  over  them;  put  them  on  buttered  toast  before  pouring  on  the  gravy,  if 
desired.    The  trimmings  of  mushrooms  are  useful  for  flavoring  gravies,  etc. 

Stewed. — Choose  button  mushrooms  of  uniform  size.  Wipe  them  clean  and 
white  with  a  wet  flannel,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  water,  and  let 


VEGETABLES.  16? 

them  stew  very  gently  %  hour.  Add  salt  to  taste,  work  in  a  little  flour  and  but- 
ter, to  make  the  liquor  about  as  thick  as  cream,  and  let  it  boil  5  minutes.  When 
ready  to  dish  it  up,  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  cream,  or  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  stir  it  over 
the  fire  a  minute,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  and  serve. 

Mushrooms  belong  to  the  genus  Agaricus,  and  over  1000  different  species  are  known. 
They  are  dangerous  vegetables  to  deal  with  unless  you  are  sure  you  know  the  edible  from 
the  poisonous  varieties.  As  mushrooms  are  put  up  in  cans  by  those  who  are  experts,  the 
safest  plan  is  to  buy  them  in  the  market.  They  are  used  for  seasoning  sauces,  ragouts, 
etc.;  when  fresh,  they  make  a  delicious  stewed  sauce.  They  are  highly  nitrogenous,  and 
contain  some  fat;  when  dried,  about  lA  their  weight  is  nitrogenous.  They  are  quite  nutri- 
tious, but  are  by  some  considered  indigestible.  The  fresh  are  better  than  the  canned,  but 
it  is  better  in  gathering  them  to  be  guided  by  some  one  who  unerringly  knows  the  edible 
varieties  than  to  trust  to  any  written  description.  Any  mushroom  having  an  offensive 
smell,  or  a  bitter  astringent,  or  even  unpleasant  flavor,  is  unfit  for  food. 

OKRA. 

Boiled. — Use  only  that  which  is  young  and  tender;  wash  carefully,  so  as  not  to 

break  the  skins  for  the  mucilage  to  escape.    After  washing,  take  off  the  stems, 

and  boil,  until  quite  soft,  in  water  containing  a  little  salt.    When  done,  drain  in 

the  colander,  place  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  sent  to  the  table,  season  with 

pepper  and  a  little  more  salt;  then  pour  over  it  butter  sauce,  or  hot  cream.  Cook 

okra  in  porcelain  lined  or  tin  vessels,  as  iron  colors  it  black. 

The  Okra  is  a  species  of  mallow  (the  Hibiscus  esculentus)  possessing  mucilagenous  seed 
pods  which  are  valuable  for  soups  and  stews.  The  dishes  thus  formed  are  healthful  and 
nutritious,  and  are  quite  popular  in  the  South  and  in  France.  The  ripe  seeds  are  sometimes 
used  to  adulterate  coffee,  and  form  one  of  its  least  objectionable  adulterations.  Use  the 
pods  when  young  and  tender;  when  over  3  inches  long,  they  become  tough  and  stringy. 

ONIONS. 

Onions,  as  has  been  said  elsewhere,  should  not  be  cooked  with  other  vegeta- 
bles, nor  should  the  kettle  in  which  they  are  cooked  be  used  for  other  foods,  as 
the  odor  of  the  onions  clings  tenaciously  to  the  kettle  for  a  long  time  after 
using  it  for  that  vegetable.  So  many  people  dislike  onions,  and  others  who  like 
them  do  not  eat  them  for  other  reasons,  that  great  care  should  be  taken  in  this 
respect.  Remember  the  caution  about  using  them  in  soups,  when  you  are  not 
sure  of  the  tastes  of  the  partakers;  boil  the  onions  separately,  in  the  onion-kettle, 
and  add  them,  at  the  time  of  serving,  to  the  soup  of  those  who  like  them. 

When  peeling  and  slicing  onions,  hold  the  hands  under  water  and  they  will  not 
then  affect  the  eyes.  After  peeling  onions  the  smell  may  be  taken  from  the  hands 
by  rubbing  them  with  celery.  It  is  said  that  after  eating  onions,  the  smell  may 
be  overcome  by  eating  a  little  parsley.  Onions,  carrots  and  turnips,  should  be 
cut  across  the  fibre  in  rings,  instead  of  being  split  the  other  way,  as  they  will 
then  cook  tender  more  quickly.  The  rank  flavor  of  onions  may  be  relieved  by 
soaking  them  for  an  hour  before  cooking,  in  warm  salt  water. 

Plain,  Boiled  Onions. — Pour  on  boiling  water,  and  take  off  the  skins  (use  those 
of  medium  size,  as  the  largest  ones  can  be  sliced  for  frying,  and  the  smallest  can 
be  used  for  soups,  if  liked).  Boil  them  in  salted  water,  changing  it  once  or  twice 
during  the  process;  when  done  soft,  take  them  out  with  a  fork,  or  drain  them, 
put  in  a  vegetable  dish,  sprinkle  on  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter,  which  will  be 
melted  by  the  heat  of  the  onions,  and  serve. 

Onions  a  la  Bordeaux. — Parboil  medium-sized  onions,  then  drain  the  water 
from  them;  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt, 
and  use  stock,  gravy  or  water,  to  moisten  them;  simmer  them  until  tender,  and 
the  sauce  is  reduced;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Onions  with  Cream. — Skin  the  onions  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces  and  put 
them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  water,  and  let  them  cook 
thoroughly.  Strain  them  and  put  them  back  into  the  sauce-pan,  with  a  piece  of 
butter;  when  this  is  melted,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  and  just  before 
serving,  a  small  quantity  of  cream.  When  this  is  added,  the  sauce  must  on  no 
account  be  allowed  to  reach  boiling  point.    Milk  can  be  used  in  place  of  cream. 


168  VEGETABLES. 

Escaloped. — Boil  the  onions  till  quite  soft,  changing  the  water  twice.  Butter 
a  deep  baking-dish,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  onions  just  pulled  apart  in  bits,  but  not 
chopped;  season  with  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  salt;  then  add  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  or  crushed  crackers,  season  to  taste,  and  moisten  with  milk.  Then  put 
in  alternate  layers  of  onions  and  crumbs,  seasoning  each  layer,  till  the  dish  is  full; 
finish  with  the  bread  crumbs.  Moisten  the  last  layer  very  thoroughly  with  milk; 
bake  %  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

Escaloped,  No.  2. — Lay  an  onion,  sliced,  and  fried  brown  in  butter,  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  baking-dish;  put  a  layer  of  cold  boiled  rice  next,  well  moistened  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  stewed  tomatoes,  and  cover  the  whole  with  a  layer  of  crumbs, 
wet  with  milk.  Set  in  the  oven  till  heated  through  and  brown  on  top.  The  rice 
and  tomatoes  should  be  previously  seasoned. 

Fried. — If  the  onions  are  large,  cut  them  in  quarters  first,  then  across  in  small 
pieces.  The  small  ones  may  be  cut  in  rings;  put  them  in  a  spider,  with  a  little 
dripping,  or  salt  pork  fat,  to  keep  them  from  sticking;  cover  for  10  minutes,  to 
partly  stew  them,  then  uncover  and  stir  them  until  they  are  a  nice  yellowish 
brown.  Butter  may  be  used  in  frying  onions,  if  preferred,  but  anything  fried 
with  butter  must  be  closely  watched,  as  it  is  more  apt  than  other  fat  to  scorch. 

The  onion  belongs  to  the  natural  order  Allium,  which  includes  also  the  leek,  garlic  and 
shallot.  It  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  India,  or  Egypt,  in  both  of  which  it  has  been  grown 
from  very  early  times.  In  Egypt,  it  was  an  object  of  worship.  Of  all  the  flavoring  sub- 
stances used  in  cookery,  it  is  the  most  valuable,  next  to  salt.  The  onion  possesses  strong 
irritant  and  excitant  properties,  and  is  diuretic,  expectorant  and  stimulating.  It  is  be- 
lieved to  promote  sleep,  and  is  usually  considered  very  nutritious,  but  opinions  differ  on 
this  point.  They  are  not  suited  to  all  stomachs,  and  some  cannot  eat  them  fried  or  roasted, 
while  others  prefer  them  boiled,  by  which  process  they  are  deprived  of  their  essential  oil. 
Some  authorities  claim  for  them  medicinal  qualities  of  a  high  order,  and  advise  their  more 
general  use.    The  strong  smell  comes  from  a  volatile  oil,  rich  in  sulphur. 

Spanish,  Onions  are  large,  white,  and  delicate  in  odor  and  flavor.  They  can  be  used  to  flavor 
other  vegetables,  or  used  as  a  salad  when  cut  in  thin  shavings.  They  can  also  be  baked, 
boiled  or  fried,  and  served  as  a  vegetable. 

PARSLEY. 

Fried. — See  that  the  parsley  is  dry,  dip  it  in  smoking  hot  fat  1  minute,  drain 
on  paper,  sprinkle  on  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

PARSNIPS. 

Boiled. — Wash  and  scrub  well,  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water;  then  put 
them  into  cold  water  and  the  skins  will  easily  rub  off.  Then  cut  them  up  and 
serve  in  a  bechamel  or  white  sauce,  letting  them  steep  in  it  a  little  while  before 
serving. 

Parsnip  Balls. — Boil  as  above  and  take  off  the  skins;  then  mash  smooth,  re- 
moving any  tough  fibre;  add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  flour,  and  well-beaten  egg;  form 
into  balls  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Fried. — Boil  and  skin  as  above;  when  cold,  slice  them  and  saute  in  butter  or 
salt  pork  fat.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  hot. 

Stewed. — Wash,  and  scrape  them  clean,  then  cut  them  in  little  pieces  about  % 

an  inch  square,  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  them, 

with  a  trifle  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper.    When  they  are  done,  take  off  the  cover. 

and  let  the  water  they  were  boiled  in  evaporate,  so  that  there  will  be  none  to 

turn  off,  and  they  will  brown  a  little;  do  not  stir  them  until  you  take  them  up; 

then  add  a  generous  piece  of  butter  (remember  the  old  adage,  "Fine  words  butter 

no  parsnips");  stir  lightly  with  a  fork,  take  them  up  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish,  and 

send  to  the  table. 

Parsnips  are  a  native  of  England,  and  are  found  in  many  parts  of  Europe  and  northern 
Asia.  There  are  several  varieties  in  cultivation.  Tbey  are  wholesome  and  more  nutritious 
than  either  the  carrot  or  the  turnip.    Parsnips  are  sweetish  in  taste,  and  are  a  particularly 


VEGETABLES.  169 

useful  vegetable  in  spring,  when  a  change  of  diet  is  desirable,  and  fresh  vegetables  are 
scarce.  They  contain  a  little  gluten,  and  a  small  percentage  of  starch  and  sugar.  They 
go  well  with  corned  beef  and  salt  fish.  Although  they  are  left  in  the  ground  during  the 
winter,  they  should  be  dug  as  soon  as  the  frost  is  out  of  the  ground,  and  before  the  tops 
start  to  grow,  as  that  detracts  from  their  sweetness. 

PEAS. 

Young  green  peas  should  be  washed  in  the  pods,  then  shelled;  then  put  the 
pods  in  a  little  soft  water  and  boil  about  10  minutes,  as  these  pods  are  sweet  and 
full  of  flavor  which  is  worth  saving;  then  skim  them  out,  put  in  the  peas,  and 
boil  them  until  tender;  adding  a  little  salt  when  almost  done.  Do  not  drain  off 
the  water  they  were  cooked  in,  but  serve  it  with  the  peas.  When  done,  add  a 
little  butter,  and  salt  if  needed.  A  little  sugar  will  be  an  improvement,  and 
cream  if  you  have  it. 

Green  peas  are  nice  cooked  in  a  steamer  without  water;  then  salted,  and 
cream  poured  over  them. 

If  dried  peas  are  boiled  until  very  soft,  mashed,  and  passed  through  a  sieve, 
then  seasoned  and  served,  it  will  divest  them  of  their  indigestible  outer  coat,  and 
it  is  really  the  best  way  to  serve  them.  This  applies  also  to  beans.  These  pulses 
are  among  the  most  nutritious  of  foods,  but  the  outer  skin  is  almost  indigestible 
cellulose,  and  is  best  gotten  rid  of  as  far  as  possible.  (See  what  we  say  elsewhere 
about  "cellulose.") 

The  water  in  which  peas  are  boiled  should  not  be  thrown  away.  If  to  this,  as 
it  comes  from  the  kettle,  is  added  a  little  stock,  or  some  good  meat  extract,  a 
delicious  soup  is  at  once  produced,  requiring  nothing  more  than  ordinary  season- 
ing. 

Peas  have  been  cultivated  in  the  East  from  time  immemorial,  and  were  introduced  into 
Europe  very  early  in  the  middle  ages.  When  eaten  young,  they  are  wholesome  and  diges- 
tible, and  being  richer  in  phosphates  than  most  other  vegetables,  they  are  well  adapted  for 
invalids;  but  when  older  they  are  more  indigestible.  Split  peas  have  the  tough  envelope 
removed. 

PQTATOES. 

Probably  the  best  method  of  cooking  potatoes,  certainly  from  September  to 
June,  is  by  steaming  them  in  the  skins;  by  this  process  the  steam  penetrates 
everywhere,  and  there  is  no  loss  of  material  or  salts.  If  the  skins  are  removed 
before  boiling,  a  large  amount  of  salts  will  be  lost.  Dr.  Letheby  estimates  the 
loss  when  the  skins  are  removed  at  14$,  and  when  not  removed  at  only  3%.  The 
addition  of  common  table  salt  to  the  water  is  advantageous,  as  it  modifies  the 
extraction  of  the  natural  salts,  and  improves  the  flavor.  The  boiling  should  be 
thorough,  so  that  the  starch  grains  of  which  they  are  largely  composed,  may 
swell  and  burst  the  walls  of  cellulose,  which  confine  them ;  too  often,  however, 
the  potatoes  are  spoiled  by  allowing  them  to  absorb  water,  and  so  become  sodden 
after  this  stage  is  reached.  Old  potatoes,  towards  the  end  of  the  season,  are 
improved  by  being  peeled  and  put  into  cold  water  over  night,  by  which  process 
they  regain  in  a  measure  their  natural  color  and  consistency.  Put  potatoes  into 
cold  water  as  soon  as  peeled;  they  turn  dark  if  left  exposed  to  the  air.  Old 
potatoes  are  rendered  more  digestible  by  being  finely  mashed;  mash  them  very 
thoroughly  indeed  -you  will  hardly  over-do  it.  Roasted  potatoes  are  more  nutri- 
tious than  boiled,  and  mealy  potatoes  more  nutritious  than  those  which  are 
waxy.  Potatoes  are  spoiled  by  germination  or  growing  (which  exhausts  the 
starch)  and  by  frost;  severe  frost  invariably  kills  them,  so  that  when  the  thaw 
comes  the  process  of  putrefaction  almost  immediately  sets  in.  The  sweetness  of 
potatoes  which  have  been  frozen  and  thawed,  arises  from  the  fact  that  the  starch 
then  changes  to  sugar  on  being  exposed  to  warmth  and  air.  Keep  them  frozen 
until  wanted  for  use,  then  thaw  by  letting  them  lie  in  cold  water,  and  use  at  once. 
Potatoes  after  being  frozen  decay  very  quickly,  because  in  freezing,  the  water 
they  contain  bursts  the  cells.  They  can  be  put  on  to  bake  without  being  thawed, 
when  frozen.  Whenever  the  starch  cells  are  intact,  ripe  potatoes  can  be  cooked 
so  that  they  will  be  mealy.  The  starch  cells  have  not  matured  in  unripe  potatoes, 
so  that  when  cooked  they  will  not  be  so  mealy,  but  they  need  not  be  soggy. 


170  VEGETABLES. 

When  potatoes  sprout,  the  process  of  germination  ruptures  the  starch  cells  so 
that  they  will  not  afterwards  cook  as  mealy  as  before  sprouting.  If  sprouts 
appear  they  should  be  removed  or  killed  at  once,  as  they  exhaust  the  starch  as 
they  grow,  and  spoil  the  potato  for  food.  (See  "Keeping  Provisions"  for  a  method 
of  killing  their  sprouts.) 

To  Boil  Potatoes. —Wash  them  very  thoroughly,  or  scrub  them;  a  narrow 
strip  cut  off  around  the  middle  will  allow  the  poisonous  solanine  to  escape  more 
readily;  put  them  into  boiling,  salted  water,  and  boil  until  soft  (about  30  minutes) 
varying  according  to  the  variety  and  size.  The  thing  to  bear  in  mind  is  that  to 
have  potatoes  mealy  they  must  be  taken  out  of  the  water  as  soon  as  the  starch 
cells  are  cooked  enough  so  that  their  walls  are  ready  to  burst;  if  drained  off  at 
once,  the  superfluous  water  will  pass  off  as  steam,  and  the  interior  will  be  dry  and 
floury;  if  left  longer  they  will  absorb  water  and  become  sodden;  therefore,  as 
soon  as  they  are  tender  onough  to  pierce  readily  with  a  fork,  drain  them,  cover 
with  a  thick  cloth,  and  set  them  for  15  or  20  minutes  on  the  back  part  of  the 
range,  or  where  they  will  keep  hot  without  burning.  They  can  be  kept  thus,  hot 
and  dry,  for  several  hours  if  need  be,  and  right  for  eating. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Select  potatoes  as  nearly  of  a  size  as  possible,  wash  or  scrub 
thoroughly  clean,  and  if  old,  let  them  stand  for  2  hours  in  cold  water;  then  wipe 
dry  (always  dry  potatoes  for  baking)  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven;  it  will  take  from  % 
to  1  hour.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  prick  the  skin  before  putting  them  in  to  bake,  to 
allow  the  escape  of  the  steam  and  prevent  their  bursting;  if  not  pricked,  break 
the  skin  as  soon  as  they  are  done  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Never  cover  baked 
potatoes  to  confine  the  steam,  as  that  makes  them  soggy.  Potatoes  baked  until 
just  done  are  best;  baked  longer,  they  harden  near  the  skin,  lose  their  light, 
mealy  character,  and  so  deteriorate.  Serve  while  hot.  Baked  potatoes  are  the  most 
wholesome,  because  none  of  the  nutrients  are  lost,  part  of  the  starch  is  turned  to 
sugar,  and  the  solanine  escapes  with  the  steam. 

Potato  Balls. — Mix  2  teacups  mashed  potatoes,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2 
well-beaten  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  form  into  balls,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in 
hot  lard,  or  drippings. 

Broiled  Potatoes. — Cut  whatever  you  may  have  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  into 
lengthwise  slices,  about  34  inch  thick;  dip  each  in  flour,  and  lay  them  between  an 
oyster  broiler.  Have  the  fire  clear,  and  when  both  sides  are  nicely  browned,  lay 
the  slices  on  a  hot  dish,  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.    A  very  delicate  dish. 

Potato  Cake. — Boil  the  potatoes  till  they  are  soft  and  floury,  dry  them,  and, 
while  warm,  mash  them  thoroughly — this  is  usually  done  with  the  hand;  then 
mix  with  them  as  much  flour  as  will  bind  the  potato  without  making  it  stiff,  add 
salt,  and  roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  and  shape  the  cake  or  cakes;  then  fry  in 
boiling  bacon-fat.  Usually,  the  cake  is  rolled  to  about  %  inch  in  thickness, 
molded  to  the  shape  of  the  pan,  and  fried  whole.  Properly  made,  it  is  wonder- 
fully light.  It  requires  some  art  in  turning  it.  This  is  managed  by  heating  only 
enough  fat  at  first  to  fry  one  side,  then,  dexterously  turning  the  cake  on  to  a 
plate,  and,  when  sufficient  fat  is  boiling  for  the  other  side,  sliding  it  into  the  pan 
again. 

Boston  Chips. — After  paring  the  potatoes,  soak  them  1  hour  in  cold  water; 
then  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  lengthways  of  the  potato;  after  this,  do  not  wet 
them  again.  Have  a  kettle  of  moderately  hot  fat  ready;  put  the  chips  in  a  bas- 
ket, dip  them  in  the  fat,  leave  a  moment,  lift  out,  dip  in  again,  lift  out  again,  and 


VEGETABLES.  171 

then  put  in  and  fry  until  they  turn  a  golden  brown;  then  lift  out, put  them  in  a 
colander,  sprinkle  on  salt,  set  in  the  oven  a  minute,  and  serve. 

Saratoga  Potatoes. — Shave  them  thin,  soak  in  cold  or  ice  water  20  or  30  min- 
utes, drain  them,  dry  on  a  towel,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  to  a  light  brown;  when 
done,  drop  them  on  blotting  or  unglazed  paper  to  absorb  the  extra  fat;  sprinkle 
on  salt,  and  serve  hot.  Enough  can  be  done  at  one  time,  if  desired,  for  several 
meals;  they  keep  well,  are  easily  warmed  over  by  setting  them  in  the  oven  a  few 
minutes,  and  are  nearly  as  good  as  when  fresh. 

A  similar  method  is  to  cut  them  in  cubes,  instead  of  thin  strips.  They  require 
a  little  longer  frying,  but  are  nice  for  a  change,  and  are  more  moist  and  digestible 
than  chips. 

Creamed  Potatoes. — Into  a  frying-pan  put  1  tablespoon  butter;  as  soon  as  it 
bubbles,  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  1  cup  hot  milk;  season  to  taste  with 
pepper  and  salt;  then  put  in  2  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes,  which  are  cut  into  small 
cubes,  beat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

Potatoes  with  Cheese. — Put  alternate  layers  of  thinly-sliced  cheese,  and  sliced 
cold  potatoes  into  a  dish,  with  the  cheese  on  top;  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  a 
light  brown  in  a  slow  oven. 

Escaloped  Potatoes.—  Slice  small,  raw  potatoes  quite  thin.  Butter  a  dish  well, 
and  sprinkle  fine  bread  crumbs  on  the  bottom;  then  put  in  a  layer  of  sliced  po- 
tatoes and  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  Then  add  another 
layer  of  crumbs,  and  so  alternately,  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  on  top 
with  a  good  supply  of  butter.  Moisten  with  milk  and  a  little  cream,  if  it  is  to  be 
had,  and  bake  until  potatoes  are  creamy  and  nicely  browned  on  top.  If  the  oven 
is  very  hot,  it  is  well  to  cover  them  part  of  the  time. . 

Potatoes  and  Eggs. — Take  2  large  cups  of  cold,  well-mashed  potatoes,  and  %,  cup 
melted  butter;  beat  together  until  light  and  smooth,  and  add  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
1  cup  milk,  and  a  little  salt;  beat  all  together;  put  into  a  deep  dish,  brown  in  a 
quick  oven,  and  serve  hot. 

Fried. — Peel  and  slice  cold  potatoes,  and  fry  first  one  side,  then  turn  and  fry 
the  other,  in  a  frying-pan,  with  salt  pork  fat,  beef  drippings  or  butter.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  always  send  to  the  table  hot.  Raw  potatoes  can  be 
fried  in  the  same  way.  They  will  be  better  if  they  are  soaked  in  cold  water  after 
being  peeled  and  sliced;  the  water  will  take  out  the  starch  and  they  will  then  fry 
more  crisp.  The  French  usually  fry  them,  like  doughnuts,  in  smoking  hot  fat. 
Take  them  out  the  minute  they  are  browned,  drain  on  paper,  season,  and  serve 
hot. 

Potatoes  Warmed  in  Gravy.— Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  the  chopping-bowl 
(with  a  knife  they  are  never  cut  even,  some  pieces  are  large,  while  others  are 
almost  mashed);  after  the  potatoes  are  pretty  fine,  put  a  piece  of  butter  in  the 
frying-pan,  turn  in  the  potatoes,  brown  slightly,  then  turn  in  gravy  (chicken 
gravy  is  very  nice),  and  stir  the  potatoes  carefully  with  a  fork,  so  as  not  to  mash 
them,  until  the  gravy  is  very  hot.    Season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes.— Slice  6  cold  boiled  potatoes,  or  cut  into  dice.  Put  a 
little  butter  in  the  frying-pan,  put  in  J^  onion,  chopped  fine,  and  fry  it  a  light 
brown;  put  in  the  potatoes  and  fry  them  a  light  brown,  turning  them  without 
breaking;  then  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley,  and  serve  hot.  A  few 
drops  of  vinegar  added  with  the  onion,  improves  the  flavor. 

Mashed  Potatoes. — Pare  and  boil  them  in  slightly  salted  water;  when  done, 


1?2  VEGETABLES. 

drain  off  the  water,  and  mash  them  in  the  kettle  with  a  wire  masher;  add  a  level 
teaspoon  of  salt  to  10  potatoes,  and  a  little  cream,  or,  if  one  has  no  cream,  a  piece 
of  butter  and  a  little  hot  water;  mash  and  beat  against  the  side  of  the  kettle, 
until  they  are  creamy — you  can  hardly  mash  too  much;  keep  them  hot  in  the 
kettle  until  ready  to  serve.  Pour  hot  water  in  the  vegetable  dish  to  warm  it,  pile 
the  potato  in  the  dish,  put  dots  of  black  pepper  over  it,  and  send  it  to  the  table. 
Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. — Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  small  squares,  the 
size  of  dice,  and  put  them  over  the  fire  in  a  stew-pan,  with  butter  or  cream,  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice.  Let  them  get  hot,  shaking  the  pan  to  keep  them  from  burning,  and 
serve  them  in  a  hot  dish  that  has  been  rubbed  with  a  raw  onion. 

Potato  Puff. — To  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  add  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter, 
and  beat  until  light;  then  mix  in  it  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  cup  of  milk,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Beat  together  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish  in  a  quick 
oven  until  nicely  browned.    A  fine  breakfast  dish. 

Puffed  Potatoes. — Cut  peeled  raw  potatoes  in  thin  slices,  and  fry  in  a  kettle 
of  hot  fat;  stir  with  a  fork  to  prevent  their  sticking  together.  When  they  are 
soft,  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and  let  them  drain  on  a  sieve  until  cool; 
then  return  to  the  hot  fat  and  fry  4  minutes  longer;  the  second  frying  causes  the 
slices  to  puff  and  become  hollow.    Sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  serve. 

Potato  Stew. — Take  6  or  8  large  potatoes,  peel  and  slice  thin;  cut  3  thick 
slices  of  salt  pork  into  little  squares,  and  put  into  the  bottom  of  the  soup-kettle; 
fry  thoroughly,  then  add  the  potatoes,  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sage,  if  liked, 
and  1  large  tomato  peeled  and  sliced;  cover  with  water  and  closely  cover  the 
kettle.    Cook  until  the  potatoes  begin  to  break  in  pieces.    Cheap  and  good. 

Stuffed  Potatoes. — Choose  12  good-sized  potatoes,  wash  them,  and  scrub  the 
skins  with  a  brush;  bake  them  until  done — about  one  hour.  Remove  them  from 
the  oven,  cut  a  slice  off  one  end  of  each,  scrape  out  the  potato,  mix  it  lightly  with 
a  small  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  replace  it  in  the  skin,  and,  when  all  are 
done,  return  them  to  the  oven  for  10  minutes.  In  serving,  cut  a  slice  off  the 
other  end  to  make  them  stand  upright  on  a  flat  dish,  leaving  the  top  uncovered. 
A  little  cooked  meat  can  be  mixed  in  before  replacing  the  potato  in  the  skin,  if 
desired. 

Potato  Turnovers. — Have  some  cold  roast  beef,  or  veal  and  ham  mixed,  and 
cut  very  fine.  Take  hot  mashed  potatoes  and  make  into  a  paste  with  1  or  2  eggs, 
according  to  quantity.  You  should  have  twice  as  much  potato  as  meat.  Roll  the 
potato  out,  dredging  with  flour.  Cut  this  round,  about  the  size  of  a  small  saucer. 
On  one  half  put  the  chopped  meat,  fold  the  other  half  over  and  fry  a  light 
brown. 

Warmed  Over  Potatoes. — (1)  Slice  up  cold  potatoes,  fry  in  a  little  butter,  lard, 
or  nice  drippings,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  fry  a  nice  brown,  and  just  before 
serving  pour  in  a  little  cream  or  milk;  toss  about  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  very 
hot.  Or,  (2)  grate  them  into  the  dish  they  are  to  be  served  in,  dot  with  butter, 
sprinkle  on  salt,  and  bake  about  5  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Or,  (3)  cut  into  dice, 
put  into  a  dish,  add  a  little  milk,  butter  and  salt,  and  heat  in  the  oven.  Never 
waste  any  potato  left  over. 

The  potato  is  a  native  of  America.  It  was  introduced  into  England  in  the  sixteenth 
century,  but  it  was  nearly  100  years  before  it  was  cultivated  to  any  extent.  As  food,  it 
ranks  next  in  value  to  the  cereals,  but  it  is  not  as  cheap.and  desirable  a  food  in  itself  as  is 
often  supposed,  since  it  does  not  contain  the  necessary  food  elements  in  right  proportions 
for  a  steady  diet.   It  is  best  eaten  as  an  addition  to  pulses,  lean  meat,  and  other  nitrogenous 


VEGETABLES.  173 

food.  Potatoes  consist  mainly  of  starch  and  water,  about  78;?  being  water;  starch  18%, 
and  fibrin  and  albumen  2%.  Young  new  potatoes  are  more  indigestible  than  old  ones. 
In  a  floury  and  mealy  state  they  are  easily  digested,  but  when  close  and  waxy  they  are  not. 
They  possess  slightly  laxative  qualities.  The  waste  in  boiling  is  much  less  when  they  are 
boiled  in  their  skins,  because  that  is  of  a  cork-like  substance  partly  impervious  to  water. 
There  is  considerable  waste  in  peeling  potatoes  because  the  most  albuminous  part  lies  im- 
mediately under  the  skin.  In  and  near  the  skin  itself,  is  a  poisonousacid  juice,  called 
solanine,  but  that  is  destroyed  or  dissipated  when  the  potatoes  are  cooked.  It  is  this  pois- 
onous acid  which  causes  the  disagreeable  smell  and  taste  of  the  water  in  which  potatoes 
have  been  boiled,  and  it  makes  the  water  unfit  for  use. 

SWEET  POTATOES. 

To  Boil. — Select  those  of  an  even  size,  wash  perfectly  clean,  and  boil  until 
tender;  then  peel,  cut  them  in  two  lengthwise,  and  place  them  on  a  buttered  tin 
in  the  oven  to  brown;  in  this  way  the  skins  are  disposed  of  before  sending  them 
to  the  table.    It  takes  longer  to  cook  sweet  potatoes  than  the  common  ones. 

Baked. — Wash  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes  and  place  on  the  top  grate  of  a  hot 
oven;  when  the  potatoes  are  about  half  done,  pierce  them  with  a  fork  to  let  the 
steam  escape;  this  will  make  them  dry  and  mealy. 

Broiled. — Boil,  let  cool,  and  peel  the  number  of  large,  sweet  potatoes  required. 
Slit  them  in  2  or  3  slices,  dip  in  melted  butter,  and  place  them  in  a  double  grid- 
iron. Broil  a  light  brown  on  both  sides,  dish  them  up,  and  after  pouring  some 
melted  butter  over  the  potatoes,  they  may  be  served. 

Fried. — Peel  the  raw  potato,  cut  it  into  very  thin,  lengthwise  strips,  and  fry  in 
smoking  hot  fat,  deep  enough  to  immerse  them  in;  as  they  rise  to  the  top  and 
brown  on  one  side,  turn  them  and  let  them  brown  on  the  other.  Nice,  and  new 
in  the  north. 

Sweet  Potatoes  and  Pork. — Select  white  looking  fresh  pork,  rib  pieces;  cut  them 
thin  and  free  from  fat  and  bone;  fry  them  carefully,  and  cook  thoroughly  until 
nicely  browned;  then  place  on  a  warm  platter;  cut  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  slices 
lengthways,  and  fry  until  brown  in  the  fat  in  the  spider;  use  care  not  to  burn 
them;  salt  them  as  they  cook;  then  arrange  on  the  platter  around  the  meat;  serve 
very  hot,  with  apple-sauce  and  hot  johnny-cake. 

Sugared  Sweet  Potatoes. — Boil  those  of  medium  size,  dry  off  in  the  oven,  peel, 

let  them  get  cold,  and  then  cut  in  two  lengthwise;  then  lay  each  half  on  its  round 

side  in  a  shallow  pan  or  dripping-pan,  put  a  good  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  salt  and 

pepper  on  each  one,  sift  granulated  sugar  generously  over  all,  and  put  in  a  quick 

oven  to  brown;  it  takes  about  40  minutes.    Excellent  and  new. 

The  sweet  potato  is  probably  of  American  origin,  though  now  extensively  cultivated  in 
many  countries.  It  belongs  to  the  Convolvulus  order.  It  contains  more  sugar  than  the 
true  potato.  Its  constituent  parts  are,  water  71  parts;  albumen,  VA\  starch,  15;  sugar,  3; 
pectose  gum  and  cellulose,  5;  mineral  matter,  1. 

PUMPKINS. 

Pumpkin  Butter. — Peel  and  cut  enough  pumpkin  to  fill  a  large  iron  or  porce- 
lain kettle.  Select  the  sweetest  pumpkins,  as  you  would  for  pies.  Stew  4  or  5 
hours,  until  it  is  a  rich  golden  brown  color,  and  dried  to  a  thick  paste.  It  must 
be  frequently  stirred  at  last,  to  prevent  burning.  This  sauce  is  especially  good 
served  with  pork,  either  salt  or  fresh. 

Pumpkins  are  a  species  of  gourd.  They  were  formerly  more  used  for  food  than  at 
present,  having  been  somewhat  supplanted  by  the  squash.  They  possess  one  peculiar 
quality— that  of  absorbing  and  retaining  the  flavor  of  whatever  they  are  cooked  with.  If 
stewed  with  apples  they  taste  exactly  like  them  in  puddings  and  tarts,  and  they  may  be 
used  to  advantage  in  most  savory  cookery.  They  contain  about  1%  of  sugar,  2  to  h%  of 
starch,  and  about  1%  of  fat  and  nitrogenous  matter.  An  anonymous  writer  in  the  early 
settlement  of  America  wrote  home  to  England  as  follows: 

"If  fresh  meat  be  wanting  to  fill  up  our  dish, 
We  have  carrots,  and  pumpkins,  and  turnips  and  fish, 
We  have  pumpkins  at  morning,  and  pumpkins  at  noon. 
And  if  it  were  not  for  pumpkins  we  should  be  undone." 


174  VEGETABLES. 

Pumpkins  for  winter  can  be  stewed  and  canned  like  fruit,  and  will  then  nearly 
equal  fresh  pumpkins. 

RADISHES. 

They  are  washed  and  scraped,  and  to  keep  them  fresh  looking  are  placed  on 
the  table  in  glasses  containing  a  little  water.  All  varieties  are  served  in  the  same 
way. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  the  radish,  and  they  are  supposed  to  possess  some  power  in 
stimulating  the  appetite.  The  radish  is  demulcent,  stimulating  and  diuretic,  hut  it  is  not 
suitable  for  those  with  weak  digestive  powers. 

BICE. 

Boiled. — Pick  over  carefully,  and  wash  at  least  twice,  in  cold  water,  washing 
it  thoroughly  clean,  and  drain.  Then  put  the  rice  into  plenty  of  well  salted 
boiling  water,  and  make  it  boil  actively  so  that  the  water  will  bubble  and  toss 
the  rice  around;  cook  it  till  tender,  but  no  longer,  for  if  the  grains  burst  they  will 
surely  stick  together;  test  it  often  by  squeezing  a  grain  between  the  fingers;  if  it 
flattens  easily  it  is  ready  to  drain;  it  should  cook  in  15  to  20  minutes,  according 
to  the  age  of  the  rice.  When  soft,  drain  off  the  water,  remove  the  rice,  and  set  it 
at  the  back  of  the  stove  to  dry  about  %  hour.  If  you  stir  it  while  cooking,  use  a 
fork  instead  of  a  spoon,  as  that  separates  the  grains.  Cooked  thus  each  grain 
will  be  distinct  and  separate.  Unless  the  water  is  used  for  soup,  boiling  rice  is 
less  desirable  than  steaming  it,  because  so  much  of  its  nutrients  are  dissolved  out 
and  thrown  away  in  the  water. 

Baked. — Take  some  cold  boiled  rice,  add  1  or  2  well-beaten  eggs,  some  grated 
cheese,  some  finely  chopped  boiled  ham,  and  a  little  melted  butter;  put  it 
in  a  baking-dish,  sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  until  a 
broom  straw,  when  thrust  into  the  middle,  will  come  out  clean. 

Steamed. — Pick  over  the  rice  and  wash  it  thoroughly  in  cold  water;  put  it  in  a 
farina  boiler,  with  %  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  pint  of  boiling  water  to  each  cup  of 
rice;  cover,  and  cook  till  soft  (about  %  hour);  then  remove  the  cover  and  let  it 
dry  off,  stirring  it  with  a  fork  to  facilitate  the  escape  of  the  steam  and  keep  the 
grains  separate.  If  you  have  no  double  boiler  it  can  be  put  in  a  tin  pail  and 
steamed  in  the  steamer.  Stock  or  milk  can  be  used  instead  of  water,  if  desired, 
but  use  a  little  more. 

Rice  with  Cheese. — Steam  some  rice  in  either  water  or  milk;  then  mix  in 
some  grated  cheese,  pepper  and  salt;  put  the  mixture  in  a  pie-dish  or  tin,  shake 
some  grated  cheese  on  top,  and  bake  until  nicely  browned.  The  mixture  must 
be  fairly  moist  before  it  is  baked,  or  it  will  get  dry. 

Rice  appears  to  be  a  native  of  the  East  Indies,  and  it  has  formed  the  principalfood  of 
the  Indian  and  Chinese  people  from  remote  antiquity.  It  is  now  cultivated  in  every 
country  where  the  climate  is  suitable.  It  contains  about  75%  of  starch,  and  because  it  has 
little  fat  or  albumen,  it  is  not  fit  for  a  sole  article  of  diet.  In  nourishing  properties  it  is 
greatly  inferior  to  wheat,  but  it  is  a  light  and  wholesome  food,  and  is  well  adapted  for 
invalids.  As  it  has  little  of  the  heat  producing  elements,  it  is  suitable  for  the  inhabitants 
of  hot  climates.  It  goes  well  with  meat  and  other  articles  rich  in  albumenoids. 

SALSIFY  OB  VEGETABLE  OYSTEB. 

Scrape  the  roots  clean,  and  keep  them  covered  with  cold  water  containing  a 
little  vinegar,  until  time  to  cook,  as  exposure  to  the  air  will  blacken  them. 
Then  boil  till  tender,  in  salted  water.  After  boiling  thus,  it  can  be  mashed,  the 
fibres  picked  out,  salted  to  taste,  butter  worked  in,  and  served  in  a  warm  vege- 
table dish.  Or,  after  boiling,  they  can  be  drained,  sliced,  dipped  in  fritter 
batter,  and  fried  in  smoking  hot  fat;  or  egg  and  bread-crumbed,  and  then  fried. 
Or  the  slices  can  be  sauted  in  a  frying-pan,  with  butter  or  salt  pork  fat. 

Creamed  Salsify. — Wash  it,  scrape,   cut  into  slices  %  inch  thick,  boil  till 


VEGETABLES.  175 

tender  in  a  sauce-pan;  then  turn  off  most  of  the  liquor,  add  milk  or  cream,  and 

salt  to  taste,  and  boil  5  to  10  minutes  longer;  thicken  the  liquor  with  rice  flour  or 

other  thickening,  and  serve  hot.    If  milk  is  used  add  a  large  lump  of  butter. 

Escaloped  Salsify.— Boil,  mash  it,  moisten  with  milk,  add  butter,  salt  and 

pepper  to  season,  put  it  in  a  baking-pan,  cover  with  dry  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a 

quick  oven  about  7  or  8  minutes. 

Salsify  (also  called  vegetable  oyster)  belongs  to  the  natural  order  Compositce,  the  same 
order  to  which  lettuce  and  chicory  belong.  It  is  the  root  which  is  used,  which  is  shaped 
somewhat  like  the  common  carrot.  As  a  rule,  members  of  this  order  are  tonic  or  stimulant 
in  their  medicinal  qualities. 

SEA-KALE. 

Boiled. — Wash  the  kale  thoroughly  and  examine  it  for  insects;  tie  it  in 
bunches  like  asparagus,  and  boil  until  tender,  in  water  containing  a  trifle  of  salt; 
when  done,  drain  thoroughly,  on  a  cloth,  untie  the  bundle,  and  spread  the  kale 
on  slices  of  toasted  bread;  then  pour  over  it  hot  butter  sauce. 

Sea-kale  resembles  asparagus,  and  belongs  to  the  same  tribe.  It  is  easily  cultivated.  It 
is  so  light  that  the  most  delicate  organizations  may  readily  eat  it,  and  it  is  nutritious, 
stimulating  to  the  appetite,  and  easily  digested.  It  usually  contains  no  sugar,  but  some 
mucilage  and  starch,  the  percentage  being,  starch  and  mucilage,  3;  cellulose,  1;  albumen, 
2.4;  mineral  matter,  0.6,  and  water,  93. 

Scotch  Kale.— This  has  a  fine  head  of  curly  leaves;  the  tenderest  are  used  as  greens, 
and  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  dandelions  and  other  greens.  This  herb  may 
be  planted  late,  like  late  turnips,  and  is  in  season,  if  planted  early,  from  midsummer  to 
late  fall;  it  may  be  picked  green  and  fresh,  even  after  the  ground  is  covered  with  snow. 

SAUEKKROUT. 

To  Make. — Choose  firm,  white  cabbage  heads  and  remove  the  coarse  outer 
leaves,  and  the  large  fibres  of  the  back  of  the  white  leaves;  chop  coarsely,  and  for 
about  30  medium-sized  heads,  allow  3^  lb.  of  salt  and  mix  it  well  with  the  chopped 
cabbage;  cover  the  bottom  of  a  small  oak  barrel  or  cask  with  cabbage  leaves,  and 
press  the  cabbage  firmly  into  the  barrel,  or  pound  it  down  with  a  wooden  pestle. 
When  all  the  cabbage  is  firmly  packed,  cover  with  cabbage  leaves  and  a  cloth, 
then  have  a  round  cover  that  goes  into  the  barrel,  press  it  down  firmly  and  put 
a  stone  on  that  to  keep  it  in  place.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  ferment  (and  you  will 
know  it  by  the  odor)  place  the  barrel  in  a  cold  cellar  or  storehouse,  where  it  will 
not  freeze.    Made  in  October,  it  is  ready  to  cook  in  February. 

To  Cook. — To  cook  sauerkrout,  take  it  from  the  barrel,  and  if  very  sour  it  can 
be  washed  in  a  plenty  of  water  and  drained  dry  in  the  colander;  put  butter,  drip- 
ping or  salt  pork  fat  in  the  frying-pan,  add  a  sliced  onion,  if  liked,  put  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  water  in  the  pan,  with  the  krout;  cover  with  a  plate  and  stew  slowly  for 
an  hour;  then  stir  it  well  before  taking  up.  It  is  eaten  with  a  little  pepper  and 
vinegar,  or  with  sour  baked  apples. 

SPINACH. 

Boiled. — Wash  it  many  times  in  cold  water  to  thoroughly  and  perfectly  free  it 
from  sand  and  dust.  Then  put  in  a  close  sauce-pan,  without  a  drop  of  water,  over 
a  moderate  fire;  cover  closely,  and  cook  till  tender — about  1  hour.  Its  own  juice 
runs  out,  and  it  cooks  in  that.  Spinach  should  be  one  of  the  most  healthful  of 
springtime  vegetables,  but  its  most  valuable  elements  are  its  mineral  matters  or 
potash  salts,  and  by  the  old  method  of  cooking  they  are  almost  entirely  lost.  The 
above  method  preserves  them.  When  done,  drain,  chop  fine,  and  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  or  pour  over  a  cream  sauce.  Serve  with  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  egg  over  it. 

Spinach  is  supposed  to  be  a  native  of  Western  Arabia.  It  was  not  known  to  the  ancients, 
but  was  introduced  into  Europe  some  400  years  ago.  It  is  laxative,  cooling,  wholesome,  and 
easily  digested,  but  does  not  afford  much  nutriment. 

SQUASH. 

Summer  Squash.— Boiled.— -They  must  be  so  young  that  the  thumb  nail  will 


176  VEGETABLES. 

strike  through  the  shell.  Wash  and  quarter  or  slice  them  (you  need  not  remove 
the  skin  or  seeds);  then  boil  till  tender  in  slightly  salted  water — about  20  or  30 
minutes.  When  done,  turn  off  the  water  and  set  the  kettle  back  on  the  stove; 
mash,  and  stir  to  let  the  water  dry  out,  then  add  butter,  salt,  and  a  little  white 
pepper.    Keep  hot  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  time  to  serve. 

Baked. — Pare  the  squash,  remove  the  seeds,  and  steam  it  until  tender;  then 
mash,  season  with  butter,  pepper'and  salt,  and  to  a  medium-sized  squash  add  1 
cup  cracker  or  bread  crumbs;  stir  together  well,  put  it  in  a  greased  baking-dish, 
and  bake  1  hour. 

Fried  Summer  Squash. — Peel  the  squash,  cut  in  small  squares,  and  fry  in  hot 
butter;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  It  will  be  as  delicate  as  and  taste  much 
like  egg  plant.    Try  it. 

Winter  Squash. — This  usually  has  a  hard  shell,  and  has  to  be  broken  with  a 
hatchet,  by  dropping  on  a  plank  floor,  or  by  sawing  with  the  meat  saw.  Break  in 
small  pieces  for  the  kettle,  scrape  out  the  seeds,  and  wash  clean.  Put  the  pieces 
in  the  kettle  with  the  shell  side  up,  have  a  little  salt  in  the  water,  which  should 
cover  it,  and  cook  for  an  hour,  if  it  does  not  break  to  pieces.  When  done,  take 
the  shells  in  a  clean  cloth,  and,  with  an  iron  spoon,  scrape  the  squash  into  a  basin 
to  keep  hot  on  the  back  of  the  range.  If  too  dry,  moisten  with  a  little  water,  and 
add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Some  winter  squashes  have  a  thin  soft 
shell  and  are  watery;  they  can  be  baked  in  the  oven,  then  seasoned  as  above. 
Both  summer  and  winter  squashes  are  also  steamed  instead  of  boiled  by  some 
cooks. 

The  squash  is  a  species  of  gourd,  belonging  to  the  same  general  order  as  the  cucumber 
and  pumpkin.  It  is  a  pleasant  and  wholesome  article  of  food,  but  contains  little  nutriment, 
having  about  1%  of  sugar,  2  to  i%  of  starch,  and  less  than  1%  of  nitrogenous  matter. 

TOMATOES. 

Baked. — Scald  and  skin  tomatoes  that  are  whole  and  firm,  and  ripe  enough  to 
be  thoroughly  red;  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  take  out 
the  hard  core;  arrange  them  in  a  round  baking-tin  well  buttered,  with  the  cut 
side  upward;  put  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper  over  them,  and,  in  each  one,  a  bit 
of  bread  well  buttered.    Then  bake. 

Baked  Stuffed  Tomatoes. — Choose  large  tomatoes,  as  nearly  the  same  size  as 
possible;  from  the  stem  end  take  out  the  seeds  and  inner  part  of  the  tomato; 
make  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  finely-chopped  cold  ham,  and  the  chopped  to- 
mato; season  with  butter,  pepper,  a  little  salt  and  mustard.  Fill  the  tomatoes 
with  the  stuffing,  and  bake  them.  Add  a  little  butter  to  them  before  putting  in 
the  oven,  and  a  very  little  water  in  the  baking-pan.  When  they  are  done,  set 
them  where  they  will  keep  hot;  add  a  little  more  butter  and  hot  water  to  the 
baking-pan,  and  make  a  thin  gravy,  thickening  it  with  browned  flour  and  stirring 
in  a  tablespoon  of  sugar. 

Tomatoes  and  Cream. — Slice  the  tomatoes  rather  thick,  and  turn  off  all  the 
juice  that  escapes;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  just  before  they  are  served  pour 
cream  over  them.  To  those  who  have  never  tried  it,  this  dish  may  be  uninviting, 
but  to  those  who  are  fond  of  the  natural  flavor  of  the  tomato,  it  will  be  found 
delicious.  The  yellow  tomato  preserves  are  very  nice  served  with  cream.  Ac- 
companied with  nice  white  cake,  no  daintier  dessert  could  be  wished  for. 

Tomato  Croutes. — Small  tomatoes  are  better  for  this  dish.  Scald  and  peel, 
then  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end,  leaving  about  %  of  the  tomato;  place  them, 
the  cut  side  down,  on  slices  of  buttered  bread,  arranged  in  a  buttered  baking-tin; 


VEGETABLES.  177 

sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  bake  %  hour.    This  dish  can  be  served  with  cold 
meat,  and  is  well  worth  trying. 

Escaloped  Tomatoes. — Tomatoes  are  escaloped  like  oysters.  Put  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  in  a  buttered  baking-dish;  over  this,  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  a  very  little  sugar.  Have  the  top  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  and  scatter  over  it  bits  of  butter,  and  then  bake.  A  little  of  the  gravy 
left  from  roast  meats  would  add  to  the  flavor,  and  might  be  poured  over  just  be- 
fore it  is  put  in  the  oven.    Canned  tomatoes  can  be  used  almost  equally  well. 

Raw  Tomatoes. — Tomatoes  are  often  eaten  raw.  Some  people  object  to  having 
the  skin  removed,  but  if  properly  done,  the  flavor  is  not  injured.  Select  those 
which  are  firm,  smooth  and  fully  ripe,  put  them  in  a  pan,  and  pour  on  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover,  and  leave  them  15  seconds,  but  no  more;  then  pour  off, 
and  fill  the  dish  with  cold  water.  Take  out,  remove  the  skins  and  cores,  and  set  on 
ice  till  wanted.  Cut  in  thin  slices  and  serve  ice  cold.  They  are  delicious  eaten  either 
with  sugar  alone,  or  with  sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  They  should  be  pre- 
pared several  hours  in  advance,  to  be  eaten  this  way;  or,  if  wanted  for  breakfast, 
skin  them  the  night  before,  and  keep  on  ice  till  ready  to  use  them. 

Fried  Tomatoes. — Select  the  largest  firm,  ripe  tomatoesfor  frying.  Cut  them 
in  halves  and  put  them  in  a  frying-pan  that  can  be  covered,  having  first  melted 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  the  pan;  place  the  tomatoes  with  the  skin  side  down, 
and  on  the  top  of  each  half  put  as  much  of  bread-crumbs  as  it  will  hold;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  the  tomatoes  and  allow  them  to  cook  10  minutes 
without  removing  the  cover;  then  take  out  the  tomatoes  on  a  platter  and  set 
where  they  will  keep  hot  while  you  prepare  a  gravy  for  them,  as  follows:  If  the 
butter  has  cooked  away,  add  a  little  more  to  the  frying-pan;  pour  in  %  teacup 
of  boiling  water,  then  thicken  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour  wet  with  a  little  water; 
stir  until  it  boils,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 

Tomatoes  and  Macaroni. — Turn  %  lb-  of  tomatoes  into  a  sauce-pan,  with  a 
spoonful  of  stock  or  a  bit  of  butter;  let  them  cook  until  tender  enough  to  pass 
through  a  coarse  sieve  or  colander,  then  re-heat,  season  nicely,  adding  a  few  drops 
of  lemon- juice  or  vinegar,  and  pour  over  a  flat  dish  covered  with  nicely-boiled 
macaroni,  not  the  pipe;  that  answers  when  it  is  to  be  cut  into  short  lengths. 
Cover  the  surface  with  grated  cheese  and  bread  crumbs,  put  a  few  bits  of  butter 
over  it,  and  brown  it  before  the  fire  or  in  a  quick  oven. 

Salted  Tomatoes. — Pick  ripe  tomatoes  (but  not  too  ripe)  and  put  in  jars.  Put 
strong  salt  brine  over  them,  and  cover  with  a  plate,  having  the  brine  just 
cover  them,  and  then  in  the  winter  when  you  want  to  use  them,  take  out  what 
you  want  and  soak  24  hours  in  cold  water,  then  peel  and  slice  the  same  as  when 
they  are  fresh  from  the  vines.  They  are  much  better  in  this  way  than  when 
canned. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Scald,  peel,  slice  and  stew  slowly  in  a  sauce-pan  about  }£ 
hour;  then  add  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  a  little  sugar  to  sweeten;  stew  %  hour 
more,  stirring  in  the  seasoning.  Thicken,  if  desired,  with  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs,  or  corn-starch,  or  flour  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Canned  tomatoes  can  be 
prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

Tomato  Toast.— Scald  and  peel  nice,  fresh  tomatoes,  and  stew  till  tender; 
season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sugar.    Take  as  many  slices  of  bread 
as  needed  for  the  family,  toast  well,  butter,  and  arrange  in  layers  in  a  deep  dish 
with  some  of  the  stewed  tomatoes  on  each  slicej  cover  and  serve  at  once, 
U 


178  VEGETABLES. 

Canned  Tomatoes. — These  are  nice  stewed  and  baked  in  alternate  layers  with 
boiled  rice,  or  boiled  macaroni,  seasoning  the  layers  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

The  tomato  is  a  native  of  South  America,  and  belongs  to  the  nightshade  order,  which 
includes  the  potato  and  tobacco.  It  was  considered  poisonous  or  unfit  for  food  until  within 
a  comparatively  few  years.  The  fruit  is  the  only  part  which  is  eaten.  It  is  a  delicious 
article  of  food,  and  exerts  a  healthy  influence  upon  the  liver  and  biliary  organs,  and  is  con- 
sidered by  some  physicians,  a  good  remedy  for  indigestion  ard  dyspepsia.  It  contains 
about  6%  of  sugar,  a  little  less  than  1%  of  malic  acid,  to  which  it  owes  its  refreshing  and 
cooling  qualities,  a  little  pectose,  etc.  The  skins  will  readily  come  off  if  boiling  water  is 
poured  over  them  and  they  are  allowed  to  stand  a  while. 

TURNIPS. 

Boiled. — Wash,  peel,  cut  in  pieces,  and  boil  until  tender  in  just  enough  salted 
water  to  cover  them.  They  are  then  sometimes  mashed  until  the  lumps  are  all 
out,  then  seasoned  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  a  little  butter;  serve  hot.  A 
better  way  than  mashing,  because  it  makes  them  less  soggy,  is  to  chop  them; 
when  boiled  tender,  turn  them  into  a  wooden  bowl,  season  with  salt,  white  pepper 
and  a  little  butter,  chop  them  very  quickly,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  to  become 
hot  before  serving.  Small  turnips  are  very  nice  served  whole,  with  butter,  salt 
and  pepper,  and  if  one  has  it  to  spare,   a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  on  them. 

Creamed  Turnips. — Boil,  cut  in  dice,  and  pour  over  a  cream  sauce.  A  drawn 
butter,  or  any  white  sauce,  can  be  used  instead. 

Piedmontese  Turnips. — Half  boil  the  turnips;  after  cutting  them  in  slices 

butter  a  pudding-dish,  put  in  the  turnips,  moisten  them  with  a  little  milk  or 

cream,  dust  over  them  pepper,  salt  and  bread  crumbs,  and  a  little  grated  cheese, 

and  bake  in  the  oven  until  of  a  bright  golden  brown.  Omit  the  cheese  if  preferred. 

The  turnip  is  used  throughout  the  United  States  and  Europe,  but  it  does  not  thrive  in 
a  hot  climate.  It  contains  little  nutritive  matter,  and  is  good  for  human  food  only  when 
taken  with  other  articles.  When  eaten  alone  it  creates  flatulency.  It  contains  no  starch 
but  has  instead  a  jelly-like  substance  called  pectine,  and  in  the  best  kinds  a  slightly  acid 
quality  also.  It  is  somewhat  laxative  and  diuretic.  It  is  not  good  for  those  with  weak 
digestive  organs.  Turnips  need  much  salt  as  they  contain  none,  and  being  without  fats  or 
starch  they  go  well  with  fat  meats,  potatoes,  etc.,  which  contain  those  elements. 

YAMS. 

Boiled. — Peel  and  cut  into  slices  about  ^4  inch  thick,  put  them  into  a  kettle 
with  barely  enough  salted  water  to  cover;  cover  closely  and  cook  till  tender — 
about  %  to  1  hour.  Drain  in  a  colander,  keeping  it  hot.  Make  a  white  sauce, 
pour  it  over  and  serve. 

Pried.  —Peel  the  yams  and  slice  as  above;  parboil  20  minutes  in  slightly  salted 
water;  then  drain,  wipe  dry,  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  pork  fat  or  oil,  as  pre- 
ferred; sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  white  pepper  while  frying. 

The  yam  is  a  native  of  tropical  countries.  The  roots  are  tuberous,  something  like  our 
own  potatoes.  When  boiled  or  baked  they  are  nice  in  flavor,  and  very  nutritious.  Although 
somewhat  resembling  sweet  potatoes  they  are  of  a  widely  different  order,  belonging  to  the 
order  Dioscorea.  They  contain  water,  79$ ;  albumenoids,  %% ;  starch,  etc.,  16$ ;  fats,  0.5% ; 
mineral  matters,  VA%. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,   ETC. 


Bread  has  well  been  called  the  staff  of  life.  It  is  in  vegetable  foods  that 
which  flesh  is  in  animal  foods,  and  each  contains  nearly  all  the  elements  needed 
for  nutrition.  The  following  table  will  show  the  percentage  of  the  different  food 
elements  found  in  the  various  grains: 

TABLE  SHOWING  THE  PERCENTAGE  OF  FOOD  ELEMENTS  IN  GRAINS,  ETC. 


Wheat  Flour 

Buckwheat  Flour.. 

Rye  Flour 

Graham  Flour 

Cornmeal 

Oatmeal 

Barley  (Pearl) 

Wheat  Bread , 

Boston  Crackers... 
Oatmeal  Crackers 

Cracked  Wheat 

Starch  

Sugar,  Granulated 
Molasses  — 


Pater. 

% 

Albu- 
menoids. 

% 

Carbohy- 
drates. 

■        % 

Fats. 

% 

Mineral 
Matters. 

% 

Potential 

Energy 

in  IB). 

Calories. 

12.5 

11.0 

74.9 

1.1 

0.5 

1645 

14.6 

6.9 

76.1 

1.4 

1.0 

1605 

13.1 

6.7 

78.7 

0.8 

0.7 

1625 

13.1 

11.7 

71.7 

1.7 

1.8 

1625 

15.0 

9.2 

70.6 

3.8 

1.4 

1645 

7.8 

14.7 

68.4 

7.1 

2.0 

1845 

11.8 

8.4 

78.1 

0.7 

1.0 

1635 

32.3 

8.8 

56.3 

1.7 

0.9 

1280 

8.3      . 

10.7 

68.7 

9.9 

2.4 

1895 

4.9 

10.4 

69.6 

13.7 

1.4 

2065 

10.4 

11.9 

74.6 

1.7 

1.4 

1680 

2.0 

0.0 

97.8 

0.0 

0.2 

1820 

2.0 

0.0 

97.8 

0.0 

0.2 

1820 

24.6 

0  0 

73.1 

0.0 

2.3 

1360 

The  above  analyses  give,  of  course,  only  the  average  composition;  the  analysis 
of  different  varieties  varying  a  good  deal.  Thus  some  varieties  of  corn  contain  as 
low  as  3%  of  fat,  and  others  as  high  as  9%,  the  yellow  varieties,  as  a  rule,  contain- 
ing more  than  the  white.  So  also  different  varieties  of  oatmeal  and  other  grains 
vary  in  their  composition  somewhat.  Wheat  makes  the  best  bread  of  any  cereal. 
This  is  owing  to  the  peculiar  character  of  its  albuminous  matter,  which  is  a  grey- 
ish-yellow, elastic,  sticky  substance,  called  gluten.  This  gluten  is  a  compound  of 
at  least  4  albumenoids,  called  gluten-film,  gluten-casein,  gliadin,  and  mucedin. 
Grains  like  corn  and  oatmeal,  which  lack  gluten,  do  not  make  good  bread.  Wheat 
bread  best  meets  the  requirements  of  adult  life.  The  gluten  furnishes  the  flesh 
making  elements,  and  the  starch  the  heat  giving,  while  deficiencies  in  the  amount 
of  phosphates,  etc.,  can  be  made  up  by  the  use  of  eggs,  vegetables,  etc. 

The  essentials  of  bread  making  are  (1)  perfect  cleanliness;  (2)  good  flour;  (3) 
good  yeast;  (4)  the  dough  must  rise  well;  (5)  the  oven  must  be  right — neither  too 
hot  nor  too  cold;  (6)  the  careful  attention  of  the  cook  throughout  the  process. 

Wheat  bread  is  the  kind  most  commonly  eaten  in  this  country,  and  it  is  made 
of  the  best  quality  of  wheat  flour  by  mixing  it  with  water  or  milk  and  yeast  of 
some  kind,  which  causes  a  more  or  less  rapid  fermentation  according  to  the  kind 
of  yeast  employed.  A  thorough  kneading  or  molding  process  is  also  essential 
in  making  this  bread,  and  great  care  and  skill  employed  in  the  baking. 

The  yeast  must  be  fresh  and  good  or  the  bread  will  be  heavy  and  indigestible; 
stale,  sour  yeast  or  leaven,  produces  instead  of  vinous  an  acetous  fermentation, 
and  the  result  is  a  sour,  heavy  and  unwholesome  loaf. 

Mixing  the  Bread.  -Always  sift  the  flour  before  using  it,  and  it  should  also 
be  dry.  Dough  for  bread,  if  mixed  at  night,  should  be  made  late  in  the  evening, 
and  well  molded  (or  kneaded  as  the  process  is  usually  called),  and  in  cool  or  cold 
weather  should  be  placed  where  it  will  retain  the  warmth  of  the  water  or  milk 
used  in  mixing  the  dough.  The  wetting  should  be  quite  warm,  but  not  hot 
enough  to  scald  the  yeast.  The  flour  should  also  be  warmed  in  cold  weather  by 
setting  the  pan  which  contains  it  on  the  back  of  the  range,  and  constantly  stirring 
it  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  until  the  flour  feels  warm  to  the  hand.  The  hand 
is  better  for  stirring  it,  as  a  spoon  does  not  always  prevent  its  caking  in  the  bot- 

(179) 


180  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

torn  of  the  pan.  When  thus  warmed  it  will  rise  much  more  quickly,  and  when 
thoroughly  warmed  it  can  be  mixed  with  the  warm  wetting.  A  tablespoon  of 
salt  is  added,  and  many  cooks  use  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  which  hastens  the  fer- 
mentation and  rising  of  the  dough.  In  hot  weather  the  flour  does  not  need 
warming,  and  the  wetting  may  also  be  of  the  temperature  of  the  air.  The  dough 
will  be  light  in  the  morning,  and  can  be  molded  again,  divided  into  loaves  and 
put  into  the  baking-tins  to  rise  again,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  bake;  or,  instead 
of  molding  it  early  in  the  morning,  if  other  work  is  pressing,  or  the  third  rising 
is  desired,  it  may  be  cut  down  with  a  knife,  until  it  is  very  nearly  of  the  bulk  it 
was  before  rising,  and  left  to  rise  again  until  after  breakfast  is  over,  when  it  can 
be  molded  to  put  in  the  baking-tins.  One  good  bread  making  rule  is  to  mold  20 
minutes  at  night  after  mixing,  keeping  the  dough  as  soft  as  possible;  then  cut 
down  well  the  first  thing  in  the  morning;  after  breakfast  mold  10  minutes,  with 
as  little  added  flour  as  possible,  then  divide  into  loaves  and  put  it  in  the  baking- 
tins. 

If  dough  becomes  chilled,  put  the  pan  at  once  into  a  larger  one  filled  with 
warm  water,  and  as  fast  as  the  water  cools  replace  it  with  more  which  is  warm, 
until  the  dough  begins  to  rise  again.  By  keeping  rising  dough  at  a  temperature 
of  about  50°  (by  putting  it  in  a  cellar  or  otherwise),  it  may  be  kept  at  a  standstill 
for  hours  without  being  injured;  then  it  should  be  brought  into  a  warm  room 
about  an  hour  before  "baking,  to  finish  the  rising  process. 

The  best  way  of  mixing  bread  is  to  mix  the  yeast  well  into  the  water  or  milk, 
and  then  work  in  the  flour.  This  is  better  than  the  old  way  of  making  a  hole  in 
the  flour  and  then  pouring  the  liquid  into  it,  as  less  kneading  will  be  necessary, 
and  the  yeast  will  be  more  uniformly  mixed  with  the  flour.  It  is  better  to  meas- 
ure the  liquid,  letting  that  regulate  the  size  of  the  loaf,  and  then  add  enough 
flour  to  make  it  the  right  consistency,  than  it  is  to  measure  the  flour  first  and 
then  add  the  liquid.  Measure  the  liquid,  and  either  mix  in  all  the  flour  at  first, 
or  else  add  about  half  at  first,  making  a  batter,  let  it  rise  well,  then  add  the  re- 
mainder, and  let  it  rise  again.  By  the  latter  method  the  bread  rises  more  quickly, 
and  milk  bread  may  in  the  summer  be  thus  mixed  in  the  morning  and  baked  by 
noon.  Housekeepers  can  try  the  2  methods  and  adopt  the  one  which  they  prefer. 
When  yeast  bread  is  mixed  in  the  morning  instead  of  at  night  (and  with  the 
quickly  rising  compressed  yeast  this  is  often  done)  instead  of  molding  the  bread 
when  first  mixed,  it  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  and  the  flour  cut  into  it,  until 
the  dough  is  quite  stiff;  then  cover  it  to  keep  it  warm  and  in  2  or  3  hours  it  will 
have  risen  so  that  more  flour  can  be  added,  then  molded,  and  put  into  baking-pans 
to  rise.  Many  persons  prefer  this  bread  as  being  better  and  sweeter  than  when 
risen  over  night. 

Remember  that  getting  the  dough  too  stiff  is  one  great  fault  in  making  bread; 
aim  to  have  it  as  soft  as  possible  without  being  at  all  sticky  or  wet.  If  either  the 
sponge  or  the  dough  be  permitted  to  overwork  itself,  that  is  to  say,  if  the  mixing 
and  kneading  be  neglected  when  it  has  reached  the  proper  point  for  either,  sour 
bread  will  probably  be  the  result  in  warm  weather,  and  bad  bread  at  all  times. 

The  Kneading. — The  object  in  kneading  the  dough  is  to  thoroughly  mix  the 
flour  and  water,  and  evenly  distribute  the  yeast,  so  that  the  fermentation  may  be 
uniform.  It  is  best  done  on  a  bread  board,  although  often  done  in  a  mixing  bowl. 
The  dough  should  be  kneaded  until  it  is  a  smooth,  plastic,  even  grained  mass. 
The  motion  is  hard  to  describe,  but  much  depends  on  having  the  kneading  thor- 
oughly and  properly  done.  Use  as  little  extra  flour  as  possible.  Deftness  rather 
than  strength  counts  in  the  process.  If  you  can  pull  the  dough  out  long,  and  it 
springs  back  to  the  hand,  it  is  good. 

The  Rising. — In  setting  dough  to  rise,  the  rule  is  that  it  should  rise  till  its  size 
is  a  little  more  than  doubled.  It  is  best  to  cover  it  with  several  thicknesses  of 
cloth  and  a  tight  fitting  cover;  this  will  keep  out  the  air  and  prevent  a  thick 
crust  from  forming,  which  will  not  mix  well  with  the  dough  when  it  is  kneaded, 
and  will  cause  streaks  or  spots  in  the  bread.  Grease  the  bowl  in  which  the 
dough  is  set  to  rise. 

Care  should  be  taken  in  rising  bread  that  it  is  kept  warm  in  cold  weather;  but 
not  too  hot,  as  that  induces  the  acetous  fermentation  instead  of  the  vinous,  and 
the  dough  sours;  about  70°  to  80°  is  right.  Old  bread  makers  preferred  a  slow 
rise,  which  they  said  made  a  sweeter  bread,  but  later  scientific  developments 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC).  181 

point  towards  a  quick  rising  as  the  best,  because  yeast  being  a  plant  which  lives 
and  dies,  by  quick  fermentation  the  plant  is  living  when  the  bread  is  ready  to 
bake,  but  by  the  slower  process  only  the  dead  spores  are  left.  To  hasten  the  pro- 
cess of  rising  use  plenty  of  yeast,  but  do  not  keep  it  too  hot.  The  less  yeast  used 
however,  the  sweeter  the  bread  will  be,  because  the  yeast  consumes  the  sugar 
in  the  dough,  and  the  more  yeast  used  the  more  sugar  will  be  consumed. 
Bread  keeps  better,  especially  in  hot  weather,  if  no  milk  is  used  in  the  mixing;  a 
bit  of  butter  or  a  little  lard  may  be  added  to  the  warm  water  used  in  mixing  the 
bread,  which  will  give  it  the  necessary  "shortness"  when  the  milk  is  omitted. 
When  the  dough  is  molded  and  placed  in  the  pans,  allow  for  its  doubling  in  size 
before  baking — that  is,  make  up  the  loaves  to  half  fill  the  pans.  It  should  be 
placed  in  the  oven  before  the  pans  are  quite  full  of  the  risen  dough,  for  it  rises  a 
little  after  being  put  in  the  oven. 

The  Bread  Pans. — The  brick-shaped  sheet-iron  pans  are  preferable  to  any 
others,  both  in  shape  and  material.  Round  loaves  do  not  cut  in  equal  sized  or 
symmetrical  slices,  and  the  untinned  iron  pans  are  better  conductors  of  heat  than 
those  bright  with  tin.  Grease  the  pan  lightly  before  putting  in  the  bread.  The 
bread  should  not  be  made  in  too  large  loaves,  as  it  is  not  so  sure  of  being  done  in 
the  center;  besides,  the  smaller  loaves  furnish  slices  of  convenient  size  without 
breaking,  or  cutting  in  2  parts,  as  is  sometimes  done  when  the  loaves  are  very 
large;  the  medium-sized  pans  or  small  ones  are  the  best.  A  loaf  is  of  better 
shape  if  molded  in  2  parts,  which  after  baking  come  out  of  the  pan  as  a  single 
loaf.  One  long  loaf  will  be  smaller  at  the  ends,  and  will  not  cut  in  nice  slices, 
unless  the  dough  is  pulled  out  quite  long,  and  filled  in  at  the  ends  of  the  pans. 

The  oven  should  be  well  heated,  and  a  steady  fire  maintained  during  the 
process  of  baking.  An  old  rule  for  the  heat  of  the  oven,  for  bread  and  most 
baking,  was  to  have  it  so  that  you  could  "hold  your  hand  in  it  while  you  counted 
12,  but  no  longer,"  but  the  sensitiveness  to  heat  in  different  individuals  varies 
and  a  much  better  test  is  to  throw  a  tablespoon  of  fresh  flour  on  the  oven  bottom. 
If,  after  a  few  seconds  the  flour  remains  white,  the  temperature  is  too  low  and 
should  be  increased.  If  it  burns  black  quickly,  takes  fire,  or  assumes  a  dark 
brown  color,  the  oven  is  too  hot  and  must  be  cooled.  If  it  turns  a  blackish  or 
brownish  yellow,  and  looks  slightly  scorched,  the  oven  is  right.  If  the  oven  gets 
too  hot  and  there  is  danger  of  burning  the  bread,  put  a  dish  of  hot  water  in  the 
oven,  and  the  steam  will  prevent  its  scorching;  it  is  better,  however,  to  care- 
fully regulate  the  heat  so  that  this  will  not  be  necessary.  The  right  temperature 
of  the  oven  for  baking  bread  is  from  400°  to  450°. 

Baking  the  Bread. — Medium-sized  loaves  should  have  from  %.  to  1  hour's 
time  for  baking,  and  should  turn  out  of  the  pan  of  a  yellowish  brown  color  on  the 
top,  bottom  and  sides  of  the  loaf.  One  test  is  to  thrust  into  the  loaf  a  straw 
taken  from  the  broom;  when  it  is  pulled  out,  if  it  is  clear  from  dough  the  bread 
is  done,  but  if  it  is  sticky  the  bread  should  be  baked  longer.  Or,  if  the  loaf  is 
baked  in  2  parts,  break  them  apart,  and  press  with  the  finger  where  broken;  if 
clammy  it  is  not  done  and  must  be  baked  longer,  but  if  elastic  it  is  done.  If  on 
opening  the  oven  door  you  are  met  with  a  cloud  of  steam  which  quickly  passes 
away,  in  all  probability  the  bread  is  done.  Bread  should  reach  the  temperature 
of  boiling  water,  (212°)  clear  to  the  center,  but  when  carelessly  baked,  even  when 
burned  on  the  outside,  it  sometimes  does  not  do  so;  in  such  slack-baked  bread 
the  yeast  germs  are  not  all  killed,  and  the  bread  is  not  wholesome.  In  putting 
the  pans  into  the  oven  leave  space  enough  between  them  so  that  the  heat  can 
freely  circulate  around  each  one.  When  turned  out  of  the  pan,  if  the  sides  of  the 
loaf  look  white,  while  the  top  and  bottom  crust  is  of  a  good  color,  turn  the  loaf  so 
that  one  side  will  come  at  the  top  and  the  other  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  return 
it  to  the  oven  and  finish  browning  the  sides;  if  this  is  not  done  there  is  danger 
that  the  loaf  will  be  doughy  in  the  center.  An  oven  too  cold  will  allow  the  bread 
to  rise  too  much,  and  cause  it  to  run  over  the  sides  of  the  pans,  which  detracts 
from  the  flavor  of  the  bread.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot  it  crusts  over  the  top  of  the 
loaf  and  causes  it  to  crack  at  the  sides;  it  will  also  crack  at  the  sides  if  it  has  not 
sufficiently  risen  in  the  pan  before  putting  it  in  the  oven.  Remember  then,  that 
bread  should  be  thoroughly  baked,  for  slack-baked  bread  is  both  unwholesome 
and  unpalatable;  and  also  that  bread  which  "doughs"  in  the  mouth  will  "dough" 


182  BKEaD,  BISCUIT,  ET(J. 

in  the  stomach,  and  hence  is  very  indigestible,  because  it  becomes  a  sticky  mass 
which  the  digestive  fluids  do  not  readily  penetrate. 

After  the  loaves  are  baked  put  them  where  the  air  can  freely  circulate  around 
them,  thus  cooling  them  quickly  and  carrying  away  any  gas  remaining  about 
them;  do  not  leave  them  in  the  pans.  A  fine  wire  frame  is  sometimes  used  to  set 
them  on;  or  turn  the  pan  bottom  upward  and  place  the  loaf  on  it,  bottom  up- 
ward also.  Do  not  wet  the  crust  or  put  a  wet  towel  over  it;  a  little  butter  or  lard 
may  be  rubbed  over  the  crust  if  preferred,  but  the  moisture  from  the  cooling 
bread  will  soften  the  crust  sufficiently,  and  the  bread  keeps  better  to  be  cooled 
quickly.  A  thin  dry  cloth  may  be  thrown  over  if  there  are  flies  about.  The 
best  bread  cloths  are  made  from  coarse  table  linen.  Do  not  use  them  for  any- 
thing else,  and  keep  them  scrupulously  clean. 

Bread  keeps  best  in  a  tin  box  with  a  cover  which  shuts  down  tightly  to  keep 
it  from  drying  out  quickly.  It  must  be  thoroughly  cold  before  putting  it  in  the 
bread-box,  or  it  will  not  keep  well,  and  besides  the  steam  from  the  bread  will 
cause  the  box  to  rust — two  things  to  be  carefully  avoided.  Do  not  wrap  bread 
with  a  cloth  while  in  the  box,  as  it  is  then  more  apt  to  mold.  If  the  box  is  rusty, 
put  a  plate  or  platter  in  the  bottom  of  the  box  for  the  bread  to  rest  on.  If  hot 
bread  is  put  on  a  wooden  table,  spread  on  a  cloth  before  doing  so,  or  the 
part  of  the  bread  which  touches  the  table  will  sweat  and  absorb  the  odor  of 
the  wood. 

Heat  the  knife  when  cutting  either  warm  bread  or  cake,  as  it  then  cuts  much 
smoother. 

The  Bread-Box  and  Remnants. — On  the  day  of  baking,  while  the  bread  is 
cooling,  take  all  the  old  pieces  from  the  box,  wash,  scald,  and  thoroughly  dry  it, 
and  let  it  stand  in  the  sun,  if  possible,  until  the  bread  is  ready  to  go  into  it.  If 
there  are  pieces  of  old  bread  left,  use  them  in  some  way,  by  making  them  into 
toast;  or,  if  not  enough  for  that,  put  them  on  a  tin  and  dry  them  in  the  oven, 
roll  fine,  and  use  them  in  puddings,  griddle-cakes,  croquettes,  or  in  escaloped  or 
gratinated  dishes.  Do  not  allow  a  particle  of  the  old  bread  to  go  back  into  the 
bread-box  with  the  hew;  put  it  under  a  pan  to  keep  from  drying  until  it  is  time 
to  use  it.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  dispose  of  every  particle  of  old  bread  before  begin- 
ning on  the  fresh. 

Eating  Hot  Bread. — Bread  made  with  yeast  is  indigestible  when  fresh  from 
the  oven,  or  on  the  day  it  is  baked,  because  it  is  full  of  moisture  and  the  starch  is 
held  together  in  masses  which  are  impenetrable  to  the  saliva,  and  when  chewed  by 
the  teeth  it  forms  into  leathery,  poreless  masses, which  lie  in  the  stomach  like  lead; 
it  ripens,  however,  after  being  kept  a  day,  and  then  the  particles  of  the  bread  sep- 
arate more  easily,  so  that  the  digestive  fluids  can  more  readily  come  in  contact 
with  every  portion  of  them.  Hot  yeast  bread,  rolls,  biscuit,  or  muffins  should 
never  be  eaten  by  persons  of  weak  digestion,  or  by  those  who  suffer  from  dyspep- 
sia. Some  people  find  bread  indigestible  which  is  in  the  least  sour;  a  little  lime- 
water  (a  teaspoon  for  each  loaf  of  bread)  is  sometimes  used  in  mixing  the  bread; 
the  lime-water  being  an  alkali,  neutralizes  any  acid  which  is  generated  during  the 
process  of  fermentation.  Soda  is  also  sometimes  used  to  correct  the  sourness  in 
bread,  but  sourness  can  easily  be  avoided  by  proper  care,  and  that  is  much  the 
better  plan. 

Mixing  Different  Flours. — A  mixture  of  %  wheat  or  rye  flour  and  J£  corn- 
meal  makes  a  bread  quite  as  nutritious  as  either  all  wheat  or  rye  bread,  and  more 
digestible,  because  the  lessened  quantity  of  gluten  makes  it  less  adhesive  and 
more  readily  penetrated  by  the  gastric  juices. 

Using  Cornmeal. — In  most  dishes  made  with  cornmeal  the  addition  of  about 
25$  of  wheat  flour  increases  the  adhesiveness  of  the  mixture,  and  is  an  improve- 
ment. 

Baking  Powder  Bread. — If  bread  runs  short,  a  tin  of  baking-powder  biscuits 
or  a  baking  powder  loaf  of  bread  can  be  quickly  made,  and,  unless  it  is  eaten  too 
hot,  there  is  no  danger  of  dyspepsia,  as  bread  and  biscuits  made  in  this  way  easily 
separate  into  particles.  This  can  be  readily  demonstrated  by  putting  a  slice  of 
each  kind  of  bread  on  a  platter  and  wetting  them  with  cold  water;  the  yeast  bread 
can  be  taken  up  whole  from  the  water,. while  that  made  with  baking  powder  falls 
apart  immediately.  The  baking-powder  bread  is  more  digestible  because  it  thus 
separates  more  readily  into  particles,  so  that  the  digestive  fluids  can  easily 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  183 

attack  every  part,  while  the  other  forms  a  solid,  nearly  impenetrable  mass  in  the 
stomach.  Other  advantages  of  baking-powder  bread  are  that  none  of  the  starch 
in  the  flour  is  consumed  by  the  baking  powder,  as  is  done  by  yeast,  and  there  are 
certainly  no  yeast  germs  in  the  bread  when  eaten. 

Using  Pastry  Flour. — It  is  a  generally  safe  rule  to  use  pastry  flour  whenever 
baking  powder  is  used,  and  patent  flour  with  yeast.  A  mixture  of  %  spring  wheat 
or  pastry  flour,  and  %  winter  wheat  or  patent  flour,  gives  good  results  in  yeast 
breads,  and  by  many  is  preferred  to  the  patent  flour  alone. 

Prepared  flour,  which  has  the  baking  powder  already  mixed  with  it,  can  be 
obtained  at  grocery  stores,  or  a  quantity  can  easily  be  prepared  at  home  and  kept 
on  hand  for  use.  The  proportion  is  2%  to  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  to  the 
quart  of  flour,  taking  care  that  it  is  well  sifted  in. 

Adding  Sugar  and  Potatoes.  In  fermented  bread  it  is  best  to  add  a  little 
sugar  -  not  enough  to  produce  a  very  sweet  taste,  but  merely  enough  to  replace 
that  which  is  decomposed  by  fermentation,  and  so  restore  its  natural  sweetness. 
Some  people  object  to  using  sugar,  but  for  the  foregoing  reason  it  is  probably 
better  to  use  a  little.  Adding  potatoes  to  bread  dough,  which  is  sometimes  done, 
is  unnecessary  with  the  best  grades  of  flour,  but  with  the  inferior  grades  it  im- 
proves the  bread. 

The  Principles  Involved.— As  the  making  of  bread  is  the  most  important  method  of 
cooking  grain  food,  let  us  examine  the  process  a  little  and  find  the  principles  involved. 
Grinding  the  grain  removes  the  indigestible  bran,  and  by  reducing  it  to  a  powder  it  vastly 
increases  the  surface  exposed  to  the  action  of  the  water  and  yeast.  The  water  when  added 
causes  the  expansion  of  the  starch  cells,  and  it  also  gives  an  agreeable  consistence  to  the 
bread  after  it  is  batted.  Each  grain  of  flour  should  be  surrounded  by  a  thin  film  of  water; 
a  white,  powdery  kernel  of  unmixed  flour  is  sometimes  seen  in  bread  when  this  is  not  done. 

Adding  a  little  salt  not  only  causes  the  dough  to  rise  better  in  the  oven,  but  probably  it 
enables  the  albuminous  matter  to  set  more  readily,  and  thus  helps  to  prevent  the  inflated 
dough  from  collapsing  before  the  baking  is  complete.  It  also  acts  as  a  condiment  and  sup- 
plies the  system  with  hydrochloric  acid  and  soda  which  are  insufficiently  supplied  by  nat- 
ural foods. 

In  leavened  bread  the  dough  is  subjected  to  fermentation  before  it  is  baked,  by  intro- 
ducing leaven  or  yeast.  The  yeast  cells,  which  are  very  much  smaller  than  the  grains  of 
flour  and  are  dissolved  in  the  water  or  milk,  should  be  brought  into  contact  with  every  part 
of  the  flour,  and  by  the  kneading,  a  small  quantity  of  air  is  introduced  which  favors  the 
subsequent  fermentation.  When  the  yeast  is  well  mixed  in,  the  action  of  fermentation  is 
set  up  equally  in  all  parts  of  the  mass,  but,  if  not  well  mixed,  there  will  be  an  accumula- 
tion of  gas  in  some  places,  and  little  or  none  elsewhere.  After  introducing  the  yeast  the 
dough  is  set  aside  to  ferment  and  it  is  put  in  a  warm  place  because  moderate  heat  stimu- 
lates the  process— about  70°  to  80°  is  right.  During  the  process  of  fermentation  millions  of 
small  bubbles  of  carbonic  acid  gas  are  generated,  and  these  bubbles  permeate  the  mass-. 
These  bubbles  of  gas,  being  very  light,  naturally  rise,  but  they  are  held  in  by  the  tough, 
elastic  and  sticky  gluten,  and  so  they  lift  the  whole  mass  and  cause  itto  "rise"  or  increase 
in  bulk.  If  it  was  not  for  this  adhesive  gluten,  the  gas  would  readily  escape  without  lift- 
ing the  bread,  and  it  is  becau-e  cornmeal  and  oatmeal  lack  gluten,  and  so  are  not  "sticky" 
enough,  that  they  do  not  make  good  bread.  To  have  good  bread,  it  should  undergo  2  fer- 
mentations, (1)  the  saccharine  (or  sweet)  fermentation,  and  (2)  the  vinous.  It  will  smell  a 
little  like  foaming  beer  in  this  stage.  A  third,  or  acetous  fermentation  would  follow,  but  it 
should  never  be  allowed  to  reach  this  stage.  Should  this  happen.it  can  be  remedied  by 
adding  1  teaspoon  of  soda  for  each  qt.  of  water  or  4  qts.  of  flour  used,  because  soda  being 
an  alkali,  will  neutralize  any  acid  which  has  been  generated,  but  the  bread  will  not  after- 
ward be  as  healthful  or  nutritious.  Bre  id  raised  but  once  is  coarse  of  grain  but  sweet  to  the 
taste.  The  risen  dough  is  baked  in  an  oven  at  a  temperature  varying  between  320°  and  572°; 
the  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid  gas  are  expelled,  the  yeast  germs  are  (or  should  be)  destroyed 
by  the  heat,  and  various  chemical  changes  are  effected.  The  starch  granules  are  mostly 
ruptured  and  intimately  connected  with  the  gluten,  a  portion  of  the  starch  near  the  suiface 
is  converted  into  dextrin,  and  a  little  caramel  is  usually  produced.  It  is  this  conversion  of 
the  starch  into  dextrin  which  makes  the  crust  more  easily  digested  than  the  center —  a  fact 
which  some  people  do  not  understand.  This  turning  of  the  starch  to  dextrin  is  the  same 
thing  which  takes  place  when  bread  is  toasted,  as  we  have  explained  under  toast.  More  of 
the  starch  is  turned  to  dextrin  in  the  crust  than  in  the  center  because  it  is  heated  more. 
The  evaporation  of  the  water  inside  the  loaf  while  baking,  keeps  down  the  temperature 
there  to  a!  out  212°. 

Sometime  before  the  cooking  is  complete  the  generation  of  carbonic  acid  gas  will  stop, 
but  by  that  time  a  hard  crust  should  be  formed  which  will  prevent  the  dough  from  falling. 
Flour  mixed  with  water  and  baked,  without  being  made  to  "rise"  by  using  yeast  or  baking 
powder,  would  be  solid  and  almost  impenetrable  by  the  digestive  fluids,  and  therefore  very 
indigestible,  but  the  expansion  caused  by  the  carbonic  acid  gas.  separates  the  particles  of 
gluten,  and  leaves  the  bread  full  of  little  holes,  into  which  the  digestive  fluids  readily 
enter,  and  so  attack  the  bread  in  every  part. 

It  will  be  seen  that,  as  a  resultof  the  foregoing  processes,  bread  differs  in  many  import- 
ant respects  from  the  flour  from  which  it  is  made.  In  leavened  bread  the  albumen  is  co- 
agulated, the  starch  cells  are  ruptured;  a  portion  of  the  starch  is  turned  to  sugar,  and  part 
of  that  is  decomposed  into  carbonic  acid  gas  and  alcohol,  and  part  is  turned  to  dextrin 
and  maltose,  and  a  little  caramel  is  often  produced.  The  alcohol  generated  by  decompos- 
ing the  sugar  is  all  evaporated  before  the  bread  is  fully  baked. 


184  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

YEAST. 

Three  Hour  Yeast. — Take  1  cup  of  flour,  %  cup  of  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of 
salt;  pour  over  this  1  pint  of  boiling  water;  let  it  cool,  then  add  1  cup  of  bop 
yeast.  After  this  gets  light,  take  3  qts.  of  mashed  boiled  potatoes,  and  3  qts.  of 
warm  water  and  add  to  the  other.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  the  next  day.  Then  1 
qt.  of  this  yeast  and  1  qt.  of  warm  water  will  make  6  loaves  of  bread.  With  this 
yeast,  bread  will  rise  in  3  hours  and  the  bread  can  be  baked  the  same  day,  which 
is  quite  an  advantage. 

Hop  Yeast. — Take  1  qt.  of  water,  steep  a  small  handful  of  hops  in  it,  and  when 
it  has  boiled  for  a  few  minutes  strain  this  water  on  6  grated  potatoes;  then  boil 
them  until  clear,  say  20  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;  if  the  potatoes  are  large, 
and  the  paste  becomes  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  water;  while  it  is  boiling,  stir 
in  %  cup  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  salt;  when  it  has  cooled  so  that  it  is  luke- 
warm, add  a  teacup  of  yeast;  let  it  rise  over  night,  then  stir  it  down,  and  put  in 
the  yeast  jar;  cover  tightly  and  set  it  in  the  cellar.  This  yeast  usually  keeps  2 
weeks  in  hot  weather,  and  longer  in  cold.  A  coffee-cup  of  this  yeast,  and  2  qts.  of 
warm  water  or  milk,  with  a  little  salt,  and  lard  or  butter,  will  make  6  or  8  loaves 
of  bread,  according  to  the  size  of  the  pans. 

Potato  Ball  Yeast. — Take  a  pint  of  finely  mashed  boiled  potatoes  and  have  it 
as  dry  as  possible;  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  of  salt.  Soak  1 
fresh  yeast  cake  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  and  when  the  potato  is  cool  add 
the  yeast;  mix  thoroughly,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  2  or  3  days.  When  you 
wish  to  set  bread  to  rise,  have  about  as  much  fresh  mashed  potato,  with  sugar 
and  salt  added,  as  you  took  at  first;  mix  this  thoroughly  with  the  first,  then  di- 
vide it  in  half;  roll  up  one  half  in  a  ball  for  the  next  baking;  add  the^other  half  to 
water  sufficient  for  sponge  for  the  bread. 

Milk  Yeast  or  Rising'. — Take  1  pint  of  new  milk;  in  the  morning  add  %  *ea" 
spoon  of  salt;  stir  in,  and  beat  for  %  minute,  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  then  place 
the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water,  and  where  it  will  keep  warm,  but  not  hot 
(about  110°).  It  takes  about  5  hours  for  it  to  rise.  Instead  of  milk,  water  is 
sometimes  used,  and  then  it  is  called  salt-rising.  Mix  the  rising  with  a  quart  of 
warm  water  and  a  little  salt;  make  a  stiff  sponge,  and  let  it  rise  again;  then  mold 
and  put  in  the  pans  to  bake. 

Yeast  Cakes. — Take  common  home-made  yeast,  and  when  the  fermentation 
ceases  stir  in  enough  cornmeal  to  make  a  dough.  Roll  out,  cut  in  squares,  and 
dry  thoroughly.  Do  not  dry  in  the  oven  as  the  heat  will  kill  the  yeast  germs; 
choose  a  dry  day  to  make  them,  and  dry  in  the  shade  rather  than  in  the  sun. 
Keep  them  where  it  is  shady,  but  where  the  air  circulates  freely;  they  will  keep 
indefinitely. 

On  examining  yeast  under  a  microscope  it  is  found  to  consist  of  a  collection  of  small 
oval  cells,  of  a  vegetable  nature,  known  as  yeast  cells,  or  yeast  plant.  It  is  really  a  living 
plant,  and  if  this  was  well  understood  many  mistakes  in  its  use  could  be  avoided.  Ex- 
tremes of  heat  and  cold  kill  it,  and  an  unfavorable  temperature  will  check  its  active 
growth,  even  though  it  may  not  be  hot  or  cold  enough  to  kill  or  prevent  its  growing  in 
future  under  more  favorable  conditions.  The  better  the  food  suits  the  yeast  the  faster  it 
grows.  Rough  usage  will  also  prevent  its  growth.  Under  favorable  conditions  it  grows 
very  fast,  as  much  as  will  lie  on  a  25  cent  piece  will  fill  a  cup  in  1  or  2  hours.  Given  a  little 
good  yeast  and  any  amount  more  can  be  grown.  People  talk  about  keeping  yeast,  but  it  is 
only  kept  as  one  year's  corn  is  kept  to  be  sown  for  the  next  year's  crop.  Yeast  as  it  grows 
converts  into  sugar  some  of  the  starch  with  which  it  comes  in  contact,  and  this  sugar  it  de- 
composes into  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid  gas,  and  it  is  to  this  action  that  it  owes  its  value, 
because  the  carbonic  acid  gas  thus  formed  will  permeate  the  mass  and  cause  it  to  "rise." 
The  yeast  plant  can  live  in  a  temperature  ranging  between  30°  and  170°,  but  it  thrives  best 
between  70°  and  80°.  Good  yeast  is  yellow,  or  greyish-yellow  in  color;  the  more  brown  it  is 
the  more  dead  germs  there  are.  A  blue  line  sometimes  appears ;  it  is  due  to  mold,  and  bread 
made  from  such  yeast  will  soon  become  moldy.    Yeast  with  a  pungent  odor,  and  which  is 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  185 

foamy  and  full  of  bubbles  is  good;  if  it  has  an  acid  odor  and  looks  watery  it  has  spoiled. 
Potato  starch  is  the  best  for  the  growth  of  the  yeast  plant,  and  old  potatoes  are  preferable 
to  new  for  the  reason  that  there  is  more  sugar  in  them.  If  all  the  starch  cells  in  the  flour 
or  potato  used  are  broken  by  boiling,  the  yeast  acts  on  them  more  readily. 

Salt  and  sugar  are  added  to  aid  the  fermentation.  The  office  of  hops  or  ginger  when 
used  is  to  keep  the  yeast  from  souring,  which  they  do  by  stopping  the  fermentation  before 
all  the  sugar  is  decomposed  into  alcohol,  and  if  too  much  is  not  used  they  give  it  a  pleasant 
flavor.  Tin  or  iron  vessels  may  turn  the  yeast  dark,  but  this  can  be  prevented  by  mixing 
with  a  wooden  spoon  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and  boiling  the  potatoes  and  hops  in  a  non-me- 
talic  kettle,  either  granite  or  porcelain  lined.  Of  the  3  kinds  of  yeast  in  common  use— 
liquid,  dry  and  compressed— each  has  its  advantages,  and  any  kind  is  good  which  makes  good 

BAKING  POWDER. 

8  ounces  cream  of  tartar.  4  ounces  baking  soda.  4  ounces  of  corn-starch. 

Powder  the  ingredients  and  sift  them  together  several  times,  as  the  chief 
danger  of  failure  lies  in  not  having  them  well  mixed.  This  baking  powder  will 
do  all  that  can  be  done  by  any  baking  powder  on  the  market.  The  U.  S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  has  fully  tested  and  recommends  this  powder,  their  chemist 
saying  in  his  official  report:  "The  consumer  can  pay  full  retail  price  for  the 
ingredients  and  still  make  it  up  for  about  %  the  price  at  which  a  good  baking 
powder  is  sold,  and  if  she  makes  sure  of  the  quality  of  her  cream  of  tartar,  she  will 

have  an  article  of  which  the  purity  is  assured I  can  see  no  reason  why  all 

housekeepers  should  not  make  their  own  baking  powder." 

Baking  powder  should  always  be  mixed  with  the  flour  before  adding  the  other 

ingredients. 

The  action  of  baking  powder  consists  in  the  fact  that  when  wet  with  water  the  alkali 
(soda)  and  the  acid  of  which  it  is  composed  will  effervesce,  and  in  so  doing  will  give  off  car- 
bonic acid  gas ;  this  operates  in  the  same  way  as  the  gas  generated  by  yeast — that  is,  it  per- 
meates the  mass  of  dough  and  causes  it  to  "rise"  or  swell  up.  The  action  of  the  bakingpow- 
der  will  soon  be  over,  however,  and  if  the  bread  or  pastry  is  not  baked  at  once,  the  gas 
which  it  generates  will  escape,  the  dough  will  settle  down  in  a  solid  mass,  and  the  whole 
value  of  the  powder  will  be  lost.  To  succeed  when  using  baking  powder  or  soda  2  things 
are  essential:  (1)  The  baking  powder  (or  soda  and  cream  of  tartar)  must  be  thoroughly 
and  perfectly  mixed  with  the  flour.  (2)  After  the  raising  agencies  have  been  wet  so 
that  they  begin  to  work,  push  the  operation  rapidly  to  completion;  and  when  all  is 
ready  bake  without  delay.  After  the  soda  and  acid  are  mixed  to  form  the  baking  powder 
they  do  not  acton  each  other  as  long  as  they  are  kept  dry;  the  only  reason  for  adding 
starch  or  flour  is  to  absorb  moisture  and  keep  them  dry.  As  soon  as  they  are  wet  the 
action  begins.  Baking  powder  can  be  made  by  using  only  \i  as  much  starch  as  we  give  in 
the  above  formula,  or  with  even  less;  the  powder  will  then  be  a  little  stronger,  but  it  will 
not  keep  as  well,  so  that  for  ordinary  use  we  prefer  the  proportions  there  given.  If  you 
cannot  get  pure  cream  of  tartar  use  tartaric  acid  instead,  as  that  is  less  often  adulter- 
ated. It  answers  the  same  purpose,  but  use  only  lA  as  much.  People  as  a  rule  will  not 
tire  of  yeast  bread  as  quickly  as  they  will  of  soda  bread,  and  inferior  materials  can  be 
used  with  yeast  better  than  with  baking  powder. 


BREADS. 
White  Bread. — Take  1%  quarts  of  milk  and  scald  it  till  the  top  is  covered 
with  a  thin  skin,  by  setting  it  over  a  good  fire  in  a  double  boiler;  then  pour  it 
out  and  let  it  cool  after  adding  1  oz.  butter;  now  add  1  cake  compressed  yeast 
dissolved  in  1  cup  lukewarm  water.  After  it  has  cooled,  add  1  tablespoon  of 
salt,  and  about  X%  quarts  of  flour,  (or  enough  to  make  a  good  batter)  and  for  5 
minutes  beat  energetically;  then  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night,  cover- 
ing it  with  a  cloth.  The  next  morning  early,  while  it  is  still  in  the  bowl,  work  in 
with  the  hand  about  4  pints  of  flour  (or  enough  to  form  a  good  dough);  then  take 
it  out  on  to  the  bread-board  and  knead  15  or  20  minntes.  Sufficient  kneading  is 
essential  to  the  quality  of  the  bread,  so  work  it  till  the  dough  is  soft  and  the  gas 
thoroughly  distributed  through  it.  Then  put  it  back  in  the  bowl  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  till  it  becomes  quite  light  (about  3  hours  probably).  Shape  into 
loaves  and  put  intb  the  pans,  and  bake  when  risen,  pricking  with  a  fork  to  let  out 
any  gas  within  the  loaf. 


186  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

Water  Bread. — Mix  together  X%  quarts  of  bread  flour  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt; 
rub  in  1  teaspoon  of  butter  until  fine  like  meal.  Soak  a  whole  yeas,t  cake  in  ^ 
cup  of  lukewarm  water,  and  mix  the  liquid  with  the  dry  mixture;  add  enough 
more  flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  knead,  and,  when  well  kneaded,  place  it  in  a 
bowl,  cover  it  well,  and  set  it  to  rise  for  3  hours;  then  cut  it  down,  shape  into 
loaves,  place  in  buttered  pans,  let  it  rise  again,  and  bake  about  50  minutes.  If 
the  bread  is  set  to  rise  at  night,  use  34  of  a  yeast  cake,  but  as  we  elsewhere 
explain  the  latest  investigations  point  to  a  quick  rising  as  best. 

Entire  Wheat  Bread. — Scald  1  pint  milk,  add  %  cup  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of 
salt;  after  it  has  cooled,  add  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  34  cup  of  lukewarm 
water,  and  4l%  cups  of  fine  granulated  wheat;  mix  well  with  a  broad  knife  or 
spoon,  cover,  and  set  it  to  rise  for  about  3  hours,  or  until  it  doubles  its  bulk;  then 
cut  it  down,  turn  it  into  buttered  pans,  let  it  rise  again,  and  bake  about  50 
minutes.  Whole  or  entire  wheat  bread  is  mixed  soft,  or  only  stiff  enough  to 
handle  with  a  spoon  or  knife.  Entire  wheat  bread  is  more  crumbly  than  white 
wheat  bread. 

Entire  Wheat  Bread  No.  2. — Take  4  even  cups  of  entire  wheat  flour,  and  1 
cup  plain  white  flour  (before  sifting),  %ois,  compressed  yeast  cake  (dissolve  it  in 
lukewarm  water),  1  tablespoon  of  butter  (before  melting),  34  cup  of  molasses; 
stir  in  lukewarm  milk  and  water  to  make  it  less  stiff  than  for  white  bread;  beat 
and  stir,  but  do  not  knead  it;  turn  into  a  greased  baking-pan,  let  stand  till  light, 
and  bake. 

Entire  Wheat  Bread  with  Baking  Powder. — Take  2  pints  flour,  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  saltspoon  of  salt;  mix  thoroughly,  and  then  stir  in  2  cups  cold 
water;  turn  into  a  well  greased  baking-pan,  and  bake  1  hour. 

Half  and  Half  Bread. — A  very  nice  bread  is  made  by  using  3  cups  each  of 
white  flour  and  granulated  or  entire  wheat  flour;  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
mix  as  directed  in  the  last  recipe. 

'Entire,  wheat  is  sometimes  called  graham,  but  is  not  exactly  the  same,  as  it  has  all  the 
nutritive  part  of  the  grain  without  the  silica  in  the  bran,  which  is  like  powdered  glass,  and 
often  irritates  the  stomach  and  intestinal  canal.  Always  buy  the  best  graham  and  entire 
wheat,  as  the  cheaper  grades  may  be  sittings  mixed  with  third  rate  flour.  Before  measur- 
ing entire  wheat  flour,  sift  it,  not  to  remove  the  bran,  but  to  make  it  lighter;  if  unsifted 
the  measurements  will  not  be  accurate.  If  graham  or  entire  wheat  bread  is  moistened 
with  molasses,  do  not  set  it  to  rise  over  night,  for  you  will  then  surely  have  an  acetous 
fermentation.  As  entire  wheat  flour  is  much  more  nutritious  than  clear  white  flour,  its 
more  extended  use  is  very  desirable. 

MJXK  BREAD. 
1  tablespoon  sugar.  1  tablespoon  butter.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  pint  scalded  milk.  1  yeast  cake.  6  to  8  cups  flour. 

The  amount  of  flour  will  depend  on  the  kind  used,  or  the  amount  of  gluten 
in  it,  and  it  may  vary  from  6  to  8  cups.  Use  enough  to  make  a  suitable  dough. 
Mix  in  the  morning,  and  when  light  make  into  loaves,  after  kneading  15  minutes. 

Baking-Powder  Bread. — Sift  together  thoroughly  1  quart  flour,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  %  teaspoon  sugar,  and  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Then  add 
enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough  (about  2  cups,  more  or  less,  according  to  the 
flour)  and  stir  it  together  quickly  with  a  large  spoon;  then  turn  it  immediately 
into  a  well-greased,  brick-shaped  baking-pan,  and  bake  at  once  for  %  hour  in  a  hot 
oven,  covering  with  paper  the  first  34  hour,  to  prevent  its  crusting  over  too  soon. 
Have  the  oven  heated  right  before  beginning  to  mix  the  bread,  and  have  the  pan 
greased  and<  ready. 

Once-Raised  Bread. — Have  the  bread-bowl  warm,  if  it  is  an  earthen  one,  and 
the  weather  cold;  put  a  piece  of  butter  in  it  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  tablespoon 


MEAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  187 

of  salt;  then  pour  over  it  a  qt.  of  hot  milk  and  water;  stir  cold  flour  into  it,  until 
it  is  a  batter  that  can  be  beaten  with  a  spoon,  and  beat  well  for  a  minute;  then 
add  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.  The  batter  at  this 
time  should  be  lukewarm;  wait  a  little  for  it  to  cool  if  it  is  too  hot,  but  the  cold 
flour  usually  makes  it  just  right;  beat  in  the  yeast  another  minute,  then  place  a 
pan  of  flour  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  put  both  hands  in  it  and  stir  constantly 
from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  until  the  flour  feels  warm  all  through;  then  stir  into 
the  batter  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough — cutting  in  the  flour  with  the  spoon — do 
not  knead  it;  put  a  little  flour  on  the  top  and  press  it  down  flat  all  around  the 
spoon  with  the  back  of  the  fingers.  Set  the  bowl  or  pan  over  a  kettle  or  tin  pail 
of  hot  water  on  the  cooking  table,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  let  it  rise  up  light, 
which  will  be  in  3  hours;  stir  down  once,  let  it  come  up  again,  take  it  on  the 
molding-board,  with  a  little  flour,  and  knead  10  minutes;  make  in  3  small  loaves, 
let  them  rise  to  twice  their  former  bulk,  and  bake  nearly  an  hour.  Bread  mixed 
in  this  way,  as  late  as  10  o'clock,  will  be  out  of  the  oven  by  3  in  the  afternoon, 
making  a  delicious  bread  with  little  trouble. 

Milk,  or  Salt-Rising  Bread. — Early  in  the  morning  (the  earlier  the  better)  mix 
in  a  pitcher  a  pint  of  warm  water,  or  J^  water  and  %  new  milk,  with  flour  enough 
to  make  a  thin  batter.  Put  the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water,  and  keep  it  at 
an  even  heat — about  70°  to  80°.  Cover  the  pitcher  with  a  saucer,  and  in  about  5 
hours  it  will  begin  to  rise,  (not  frothy,  like  hop  yeast,  but  with  very  fine  bubbles) 
then  add  1  qt.  of  water  with  a  little  more  salt,  and  mold  in  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  and  put.  it  in  3  brick-shaped  baking-tins  to  rise.  When  it  has  risen  to 
nearly  twice  its  bulk  in  the  pans,  it  is  ready  to  bake.  This  bread  requires  great 
care  in  making,  and  much  time.  It  gives  off  a  disagreeable  gas  while  rising,  but 
that  is  all  driven  off  in  the  baking,  leaving  a  fine-grained,  most  delicious  bread. 

Buttermilk  Bread. — Take  2  cups  sour  buttermilk,  warm  it,  and  add  1  cake  of 
yeast  and  1  teaspoon  soda  (scant);  add  2  teaspoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  ta- 
blespoon butter  and  form  to  a  soft  dough  with  warm  flour;  knead  well,  let  it  rise, 
knead  again,  put  in  greased  tins,  let  rise  and  bake. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

2  cups  cornmeal.  1  cup  rye  meal.  1  cup  Graham  flour.       1  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  milk.  1  cup  water.  1  teaspoon  soda.  A  little  salt. 

Bake  2  hours  in  a  covered  tin. 

BROWN  BREAD  NO.  3. 

2  cups  sweet  milk.  2  cups  sour  milk.  4=  cups  cornmeal.  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  molasses.  XA  cup  sugar.  2  teaspoons  salt,  scant.2  teaspoons  soda. 

Steam  3  hours,  and  bake  3^  hour. 

BROWN  BREAD  NO.  3. 

3  cups  sour  milk.  Vs.  cup  molasses.  1  cup  graham  flour. 

2  cups  cornmeal.  1  teaspoon  soda.  A  little  salt. 

Steam  3  hours  and  bake  %  hour.    If  the  milk  is  very  sour,  use  %  sweet  milk. 

BROWN  BREAD  NO.  4. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  Yi  cup  molasses,  scant.  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar. 

2  cups  graham  flour.  %  cup  wheat  flour.  1  large  teaspoon  soda. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 

Steam  1%  hours,  and  bake  %  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. — Take  1  cup  each  of  cornmeal,  rye  meal  and  graham 
meal;  mix  all  three  together;  mix  in  1  cup  molasses,  3  cups  rich  sour  milk,  1  des- 
sertspoon soda,  1  teaspoon  salt.    Put  it  in  a  covered  pail,  leaving  room  for  it  to  rise, 


188  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

set  it  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  putting  a  ring  under  the  pail  to  keep  it  from  burn- 
ing; boil  4  hours,  and  do  not  once  let  the  water  stop  boiling,  and  do  not  remove 
the  cover  till  done.     Excellent. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  No.  2. — Take  2  cups  cornmeal,  and  the  same  of  either 
rye  or  graham  flour;  sift  together  with  1  teaspoon  salt;  add  1  cup  molasses,  %  cup 
sour  milk  or  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda  (dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water);  mix  all 
well  and  add  1%  cups  cold  water;  pour  into  a  well-greased  pan  and  steam  4  hours. 
It  will  look  thin  when  ready  to  steam,  but  will  come  out  all  right. 

Corn  Bread. — Warm  1  pint  of  milk,  stir  in  enough  cornmeal  to  make  a  thin 
batter,  add  %  CUP  shortening,  3  eggs,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  heat 
the  tins  it  is  to  be  baked  in,  and  bake  quickly.  It  is  splendid,  and  bakes  promptly. 
As  a  rule  corn  bread  requires  a  longer  time  to  bake  than  either  graham  or  wheat 
bread. 

Com  Bread  No.  2.— Mix  %  CUP  cornmeal  with  1  cup  white  flour,  and  add  1 
teaspoon  salt.  Beat  together  till  light,  1  egg  and  2  tablespoons  sugar;  add  3  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  and  %  cup  sweet  milk;  then  stir  in  the  above  flour  mixture, 
beat  smooth  and  add  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Put  into  greased  pans,  and 
bake  %  hour  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread.— Take  2  cups  sour  milk,  2  cups  cornmeal,  3^  cup  white 
flour,  4  tablespoons  molasses;  2  teaspoons  soda,  a  little  salt;  steam  1%  hours,  and 
bake  %  hour. 

WHITE  CORN  BREAD,  SOUTHERN. 

2  cups  white  cornmeal.  1  tablespoon  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

1  cup  white  flour.  1  teaspoon  salt.  Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Use  milk  or  water  to  make  a  soft  dough;  bake  in  a  loaf,  or  if  preferred,  in 
shallow  baking-tins. 

Kentucky  Egg  Corn  Bread.— Take  2  pints  cornmeal,  3  cups  buttermilk,  1  or  2 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda  (scant),  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  lard;  mix  well,  and 
bake  quickly. 

Rice  Bread. — Boil  lib.  rice  till  tender  in  water  or  milk  (milk  is  best)  and  mash 
it;  then  with  the  hands,  rub  the  rice  into  4  Bbs.  flour,  in  the  same  manner  that 
butter  is  rubbed  in,  mixing  it  thoroughly;  add  3  teaspoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
salt,  and  1  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  2  pints  lukewarm  milk  or  water; 
have  the  dough  soft  to  the  touch,  knead  thoroughly,  and  let  it  rise;  then  knead 
again  thoroughly,  form  into  loaves,  put  into  greased  pans,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a 
good  oven.    Excellent,  especially  if  made  with  milk. 

Carolina  Rice  Bread. — Take  3  well-beaten  eggs,  add  3  cups  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
white  cornmeal,  %  pint  cold  boiled  rice;  1  tablespoon  butter,  melted,  1  teaspoon 
salt;  beat  together  well,  and  add  1  tablespoon  baking  powder;  mix  all  thoroughly, 
put  in  greased  pans,  and  bake  %  hour. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

3  cups  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  salt.  1  egg. 

2  teaspoons  soda.  1  cup  molasses. 

Graham  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  bake  slowly. 

Graham  Bread  No.  2. — Make  a  stiff  batter  of  1  cup  warm  water  thickened 
with  graham  flour;  add  to  it  %  CUP  °f  yeast,  let  it  rise  over  night;  in  the  morn- 
ing add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  %  cup  sugar,  and  wheat  flour  to  mold;  put  it  in 
well  greased  pans,  let  it  rise,  and  bake  slowly  1  hour.  Graham  bread  bakes  slower 
than  white  bread. 

Gluten  Bread. — Scald  2  cups  milk  and  add,  when  lukewarm,  1  teaspoon  salt 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  189 

and  "%  cup  good  yeast;  make  it  to  a  thick  batter  by  adding  gluten  flour,  and  beat 
thoroughly;  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Knead  (without  adding  more  flour),  let  stand  until  light;  turn  into 
well  greased  pans,  let  rise  again,  and  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  %  hour. 

Oatmeal  Bread. — Boil  2  cups  oatmeal  as  for  porridge,  add  %  teaspoon  salt,  and 
when  cool,  %  cup  molasses,  and  %  a  yeast  cake  or  %  CUP  yeast;  stir  in  enough 
wheat  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  it  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon;  put  it  into  2  well 
greased  tin  pans,  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  till  very  light;  bake  about  1)4 
hours.  This  will  make  delicious  thin  slices;  butter  each  slice  before  cutting  it  from 
the  loaf,  and  then  cut  as  thin  as  possible  with  a  very  sharp  knife.  Do  not  cut 
till  the  day  after  it  is  baked. 

Rye  Bread.  — Bread  made  of  bolted  rye  flour  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as 
white  wheat  bread;  that  made  from  rye  meal  is  made  according  to  recipes  for 
Graham  bread.  Rye  bread  is  often  made  with  4  parts  rye  flour,  1  part  cornmeal, 
and  a  handful  of  wheat  flour.  It  should  bake  2  or  3  hours  in  a  slow  oven;  or 
steam  it  2  hours,  and  then  bake  1  hour. 

Squash  Bread. — Take  1  cup  stewed  and  sifted  squash,  and  mix  in  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  \%  cups  scalded 
milk,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  %  CUP  yeast,  and  flour  enough  to  knead;  knead 
%  hour,  let  rise  till  light;  knead  again,  put  it  into  greased  tins,  let  rise  again,  and 
bake. 

Utilizing  Stale  Bread. — (1)  Bread  crumbs  can  be  utilized  in  so  many  ways  that 
every  piece  of  stale  bread  and  the  ends  of  loaves  should  be  saved  and  prepared 
for  use  in  the  various  dishes  which  call  for  breadcrumbs.  (2)  Put  the  stale  bread 
on  a  baking-tin,  and  set  it  on  the  shelf  in  the  oven  where  it  will  dry  and  slightly 
brown;  when  thoroughly  crisp,  place  it  on  the  molding-board,  roll  it  finely,  and 
keep  it  in  a  jar  well  covered.  These  are  dried  bread  crumbs  and  should  not  be 
used  for  scalloped  dishes  or  bread  puddings,  as  they  absorb  so  much  moisture. 
(3)  Stale  bread  crumbs  can  be  made  into  griddle  cakes;  or  used  in  an  omelet;  or 
used  with  stewed  tomatoes,  and  in  many  ways. 

Steamed  Stale  Bread. — When  bread  or  biscuit  become  very  dry  they  may  be 
steamed  a  few  minutes,  which  will  make  them  very  palatable.  Stale  pieces  can 
be  freshened  by  dipping  them  in  water,  and  putting  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven.  A  stale  whole  loaf  can  be  freshened  in  this  way  without 
first  dipping  in  water,  although  many  cooks  are  not  aware  of  it;  for  this  purpose 
the  oven  should  not  be  too  hot — say  260°  to  300°  is  best.  The  steam  which  is 
generated  opens  out  the  pores  which  had  shrunk  together.  Or  put  a  stale  loaf  in 
a  deep  pan,  cover  with  another  pan,  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  20  minutes;  then 
take  from  the  pan  and  set  on  end  to  cool;  it  will  cut  like  a  fresh  loaf. 


BISCUITS. 

Baking-powder  Biscuits. — Have  the  oven  hot  to  begin  with,  then  rub  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut  into  a  cup  of  flour,  and  butter  your  bak- 
ing-tins. Next  put  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  in  the  flour,  and  stir  it  well.  Up  to  this  time  you  can  work  leisurely,  but 
from  this  onward,  work  as  fast  as  you  can  "fly."  Add  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  stir  it. 
and  add  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough;  take  it  out  onto  the  molding- 


190  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

board,  and  form  it  quickly  into  a  round  mass;  cut  it  in  2  parts;  then  4,  then  8; 
give  the  pieces  just  a  roll  in  the  floured  hands,  put  it  in  the  tin,  and  bake  8  or  10 
minutes.  The  oven  should  brown  them  top  and  bottom  in  that  time.  Every- 
body likes  them. 

Cream  Biscuit.  —To  1  quart  of  flour  use  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  rich  sweet  cream  to  make  a  soft  dough.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Beat  Biscuit. —Take  2  quarts  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
1  tablespoon  of  lard  rubbed  in  the  flour;  mix  to  a  stiff  dough  with  water.  Beat 
with  the  rolling-pin  until  perfectly  light,  turning  and  folding  as  you  work;  do  not 
cut  the  dough,  but  break  off  pieces  and  form  into  little  biscuits,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Entire  Wheat  Beat  Biscuit. — Take  1  quart  whole  wheat  flour,  3  rounded  table- 
spoons lard,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  each  of  water  and  milk; 
mix  thoroughly,  lay  it  on  the  molding -board,  and  beat  with  the  rolling-pin  until  it 
ceases  to  be  sticky;  roll  out,  cut  into  biscuits  (be  sure  and  thoroughly  prick  each 
one),  and  bake  %  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

For  Wafers  take  some  of  the  dough  so  prepared,  roll  thin,  butter  it,  beat 
again,  roll  very  thin,  cut  out,  and  bake. 

Raised  Biscuit. — Set  a  sponge  of  2  cups  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  %  cake  com- 
pressed yeast,  and  let  rise;  beat  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  with  2  tablespoons 
sugar  and  1  egg;  stir  them  into  the  sponge,  adding  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter; 
stir  well,  let  it  rise,  and  when  light,  take  dough  enough  with  a  spoon  for  each 
biscuit,  work  lightly  into  shape,  put  in  a  pan,  let  rise,  and  bake. 

Milk  Biscuit. — Rub  ^tt>.  butter  and  1  saltspoon  of  salt  into  2^  lbs.  flour;  add 
1  cup  yeast  and  enough  boiled  milk  (have  it  lukewarm  when  used)  to  make  a  tol- 
erably stiff  dough;  knead  well,  let  it  rise  over  night,  knead  again  in  the  morning, 
put  into  greased  tins,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Buttermilk  Biscuit. — Sift  4  cups  flour,  add  1  teaspoon  soda,  %  teaspoon  salt, 
and  rub  in  1  tablespoon  lard,  and  1  tablespoon  butter;  make  into  a  soft  dough 
with  buttermilk,  roll  out,  cut  out,  and  bake  quickly. 

Drop  Biscuit. — Take  1  cup  milk,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  baking 
powder  stirred  into  1  cup  flour;  beat  all  together,  and  add  enough  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Drop  in  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  tin,  and  bake  quickly  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Drop  Biscuit  No.  2. — Take  1  quart  flour,  add  1  tablespoon  sugar,  %  teaspoon 
salt,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  milk  sufficient  to  form  a  stiff  batter. 
Drop  in  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  tin,  and  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven. 

Shortcake  Biscuit.— To  4  cups  flour  use  1  large  tablespoon  butter,  a  little  salt, 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder  (heaped),  and  milk  enough  to  roll  out  as  soft  as  possible. 

Soda  Biscuit. — Into  4  cups  sifted  flour  sift  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream 
tartar  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  rub  in  with  the  hand  1  tablespoon  lard  or  butter; 
make  it  into  a  soft  dough  with  sweet  milk. 

Graham  Biscuit. — Use  2  cups  graham  flour,  2  cups  wheat  flour,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  (or  3 
teaspoons  baking  powder  instead),  a  little  salt;  sift  the  last  3  ingredients  into  the 
wheat  flour,  add  the  graham  flour,  rub  in  the  butter  thoroughly,  moisten  with 
milk  or  water  to  make  a  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  out;  roll  thin,  cut  in  small 
cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.    Double  this  recipe  if  the  family  requires  it. 

Tutti  Frutti  Biscuit, — Mix  bits  of  fruit  liberally  into  the  dough  of  common 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  191 

soda  biscuit  before  baking  it,  as  fruit  is  put  into  cake;  very  nice.    Tea  rolls  are 
nice  with  fruit  put  in  in  the  same  way. 


BUNS,  RUSKS,  ROLLS,   ETC, 

BUNS. 

Plain. — Use  1  quart  flour,  1  large  cup  warm  milk,  34  CUP  butter  or  lard,  % 
teaspoon  salt,  3^  cup  sugar,  ~%  a  grated  nutmeg,  %  a  yeast  cake  (or  3ij  cup  yeast) 
2  eggs;  dissolve  the  butter  in  the  milk,  beat  the  eggs  separate,  add  all  to  the  flour; 
the  dough  should  be  very  soft;  knead  well,  let  rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning 
break  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  work  them  into  rather  flat  cakes,  put 
them  on  a  buttered  pan,  about  %  inch  apart,  let  rise  to  double  size,  then  cut  a 
cross  on  top  of  each  bun  (not  too  deep)  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  about  25  minutes. 

English  Buns. — Use  %  teacup  butter  rubbed  into  1  pint  flour,  %  CUP  sugar, 
3^  cup  Zante  currants  washed  and  dried,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  new  milk, 
%  cup  good  yeast;  mix  all  together,  and  add  enough  flour  to  mold  into  a  soft 
dough,  let  rise  till  light,  mold  down  again,  keeping  the  dough  as  soft  as  possible, 
roll  out,  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Let  them  rise  till  very  light  in  the  bak- 
ing-tins, and  bake  until  they  are  a  nice  yellowish  brown  on  top  and  bottom. 
Brush  them  over  to  glaze  with  a  little  sugar  and  milk  mixed,  and  return  to  the 
oven  till  the  glazing  dries. 

Cinnamon  Buns. — Rub  %  teacup  butter  into  a  coffee  cup  of  flour;  add  a  little 
salt,  and  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  then  add  a  coffee  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  and  enough  flour  to  roll  out  into  a  large  thin  sheet.  Spread  with  soft 
butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  roll  up,  and  cut  into  buns.  Bake 
about  20  minutes. 

RUSKS. 

Plain. — Into  1  quart  of  flour  rub  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg;  beat 
2  eggs  well,  add  2  cups  warmed  new  milk,  flavor  with  a  little  cinnamon,  and  add 
%  teacup  of  fresh  yeast;  mix  thoroughly  with  the  flour,  but  do  not  mold;  let  it  rise, 
and  add  a  little  more  flour  if  too  thin  to  mold,  cut  in  pieces  the  size  of  biscuits, 
knead  each  one  separately,  place  in  a  buttered  pan,  let  rise  till  quite  light  and 
bake. 

Baking  Powder  Rusk. — Sift  2  tablespoons  sugar,  %  teaspoon  salt,  and  1  table- 
spoon baking  powder  into  3  cups  flour,  and  then  rub  in  2  tablespoons  cold  lard; 
add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  nutmeg 
extract;  mix  into  a  dough  soft  enough  to  handle,  and  turn  out  on  the  mold- 
ing-board; turn  quickly  once  or  twice  to  smooth  it,  break  off  pieces  about  the 
size  of  an  egg,  roll  into  small  balls  with  the  hand,  and  lay  close  together  in  a  well 
greased  baking-tin.  Wash  over  the  top,  to  glaze  it,  with  a  little  milk  and  melted 
butter  mixed;  bake  %  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Sift  fine  white  sugar  on  top 
when  cold. 

BRIOCHES. 

Dissolve  %  a  yeast  cake  in  3^  teacup  of  lukewarm  water;  mix  with  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thick  sponge,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  till 
it  doubles  in  bulk;  then  add  3i£  teacup  milk,  5  eggs,  1  saltspoon  salt,  and  3^  Bb. 
dissolved  butter;  beat  all  together  well,  add  flour  to  make  a  dough,  and  let  rise 
again  1  to  1%  hours;  then  turn  on  to  the  molding-board,  flour  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, and  roll  the  sides  over  into  the  middle  several  times,    Then  form  into  tiny 


192  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

loaves,  laying  1  flattened  ball  of  dough  on  to  a  little  larger  loaf,  making  an  in- 
dentation for  it  in  the  center  of  the  lower  one  with  the  thumb.  Brush  over  with 
white  of  egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BOLLS. 

French  Rolls. — Rub  1  ounce  butter  in  1  quart  flour;  mix  in  1  beaten  egg,  a 
little  yeast,  and  as  much  milk  as  will  make  a  rather  stiff  batter ;  beat  well,  but  do 
not  knead,  let  rise,  and  then  bake  in  tins.    Very  nice. 

Coffee  Rolls.  —Take  1  quart  of  light  dough,  mix  in  1  tablespoon  of  lard  and  % 
cup  of  sugar;  then  roll  thinner  than  biscuit,  spread  with  butter,  sugar  and  cin- 
namon, and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over.  Roll  up  2  turns  and  cut  off,  standing 
them  on  end  in  the  tin;  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Rolls.  — Mix  4  cups  graham  flour  with  enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff 
batter;  add  %  cup  good  yeast  and  let  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  1  large 
tablespoon  sugar,  2  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  34  teaspoon  soda,  and  a  little  salt; 
put  it  ip  cups  and  let  stand  20  minutes  before  baking. 

Parker  House  Rolls. — Make  a  hole  in  2  quarts  of  flour,  and  pour  in  1  pint  of 
milk  which  has  been  boiled  and  %  cup  butter  or  lard  melted  in  it  and  allowed  to 
cool;  add  34  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  %  cup  good  yeast;  let  it  stand  over 
night  without  mixing;  in  the  morning,  mix  and  knead;  let  rise  till  after  dinner, 
when  knead  again,  roll  3^  inch  thick,  cut  out,  and  let  rise  till  baked.  Bake  about 
M  hour. 

CRACKERS. 

Plain. — Into  2  quarts  flour  rub  well  with  the  hand  i  cup  butter,  and  1  teaspoon 
salt;  wet  with  cold  water,  beat  thoroughly  with  the  rolling-pin,  and  work  in  flour 
enough  to  make  quite  brittle  and  hard;  then  pinch  off  pieces,  and  if  you  want 
them  to  look  like  baker's  crackers,  roll  each  piece  separately. 

Corn- Starch  Crackers. — Sift  together  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  corn-starch,  %  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  rub  into  this  1 
tablespoon  lard,  and  add  1  cup  sweet  milk,  mixing  it  to  a  smooth  dough;  slightly 
flour  the  bread-board,  turn  out  the  dough,  and  get  it  into  smooth  and  even  form 
with  as  little  kneading  as  possible;  then  spread  a  clean  towel  over  it  and  let  it 
stand  10  minutes.  Then  roll  very  thin  with  the  rolling-pin,  cut  with  the  cutter, 
prick  with  a  fork,  and  put  them  on  a  greased  baking-tin;  wash  the  top  of  the 
crackers  over  with  milk,  and  bake  8  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven.  These  make  a 
delightful  accompaniment  for  salad. 

Graham  Crackers. — Sift  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  1  even  tea- 
spoon salt  into  4  cups  sifted  graham  flour;  rub  in  %  cup  butter  or  lard,  and  make 
into  a  stiff  dough  with  sweet  milk  or  cold  water;  knead  10  minutes,  using  white 
flour  to  prevent  its  adhering  to  the  board;  roll  thin,  cut  in  squares,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

GRAHAM  DIAMONDS. 

To  4  cups  graham  flour  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  and  pour  on 
boiling  water  to  scald  thoroughly;  work  into  a  soft  dough,  roll  out  %  incn  thick, 
cut  into  diamonds  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  bake  30  minutes  in  a  quick  oven,  or  till 
crisp. 

JOHNNY  CAKE,  PONES,  ETC. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Use  1  cup  sour  milk,  3  tablespoons  molasses,  1  egg,  ~%  teaspoon  soda;  add  corn- 
meal  sufficient  to  make  a  thin  batter, 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  193 

Johnny  Cake  No.  2. — Use  1  egg,  }&  CUP  sugar,  a  little  salt,  1  cup  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar,  %  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  cornmeal,  1  cup  white  flour;  bake  in 
a  shallow  pan  in  a  quick  oven. 

Fruit  With  Johnny  Cake.— Dried  fruit,  such  as  raisins,  currents,  etc.,  added 
to  johnny  cake,  is  a  pleasant  addition  for  a  change. 

CORN  AND  GRAHAM  JOHNNY  CAKE. 

3  good  cups  cornmeal.  Vi  cup  molasses.  1  quart  sour  milk  (part  of 

2  good  cups  graham  flour.  3  tablespoons  melted  butter.  -which,  may  be  sour  cream 
1  good  cup  white  flour.  2  heaping  teaspoons  soda.  if  it  is  to  be  had), 

3  eggs.  1  good  teaspoon  salt. 

SPIDER  CAKE. 

This,  as  the  name  implies,  is  baked  in  a  spider,  or  short  handled  frying-pan. 
Beat  2  eggs  very  light,  add  1  cup  sour  milk,  and  1  cup  sweet;  stir  into  this  2  cups 
cornmeal,  and  a  handful  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt 
and  soda;  mix,  and  beat  thoroughly,  and  then  pour  it  into  the  spider,  which 
should  be  already  hot  and  well  greased.  After  the  butter  is  in  the  spider,  pour 
over  it  1  cup  sweet  milk,  but  do  not  stir  it  into  the  batter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
%  hour.    Take  it  from  the  pan  on  to  a  plate,  being  careful  not  to  break  it. 

Rice  Spider  Cake. — Use  1  cup  boiled  or  steamed  rice,  1  cup  yellow  cornmeal 
(the  granulated  is  best),  2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon  bak- 
ing powder,  and  1  level  teaspoon  salt;  mix  all  thoroughly,  and  add  at  least  a 
handful  of  flour.  After  beating  in  the  flour,  put  the  batter  in  a  hot  buttered 
spider,  or  short-handled  frying-pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  %  hour.  The  batter 
must  be  thin  enough  to  "run"  a  little,  but  not  as  soft  as  for  griddle  cakes.  If 
needed  to  make  it  thinner,  when  the  flour  is  added,  put  in  a  little  more  milk;  if 
too  thin  add  a  little  more  flour. 

FLORIDA  CORN  CAKE. 

1  egg.  1  teaspoon  salt.  2  cups  -white  cornmeal. 

1  cup  milk  or  -water.  1  teaspoon  sugar.  1  tablespoon  baking  powder. 

1  tablespoon  salt  pork  fat. 

Mix  all  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  2  thin  cakes. 

Corn  Pone.— Into  2  cups  boiling  meal  mix  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  teaspoon 
sugar;  scald  with  2  cups  boiling  water,  and  let  stand  till  it  swells  and  becomes 
lukewarm;  then  add  a  %  oz-  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water;  if  too  stiff  reduce  it  with  warm  water  to  a  consistency  sufficient  to  retain 
its  form;  then  put  it  in  the  baking-pan,  let  rise  4  or  5  hours,  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  till  thoroughly  done.  Pone  should  be  eaten  fresh  and  warm,  but  is  very 
nice  toasted,  after  it  is  a  day  old. 

Florida  Pone. — Mix  1  tablespoon  of  baking  powder  and  1  teaspoon  salt,  into  2 
cups  of  white  cornmeal.  Mix  with  sufficient  water  to  make  a  thick  batter,  and 
beat  in  a  tablespoon  of  hot  salt  pork  fat.  Make  in  a  thin  cake,  and  bake  until 
well  browned.    Delicious  with  meat. 

Hoe  Cake. — Into  a  mixing-bowl  put  &  cups  white  cornmeal  and  1  teaspoon 
salt;  make  it  to  a  stiff  batter  with  hot  water,  stirring  it  all  the  time.  Have  a  pan 
of  cold  water  ready,  moisten  the  hands,  and  then  with  the  hands  press  a  table- 
spoon of  the  batter  into  a  round,  thin  cake.  Bake  on  a  griddle  over  the  fire,  or 
on  an  oak  board  before  an  open  fire,  thoroughly  baking  first  one  side  and  then 
the  other.    Pull  apart  when  done,  butter,  and  serve  hot. 

Baked  Buckwheat  Cakes. — Mix  in  the  mixing-bowl  %  cup  buckwheat  flour,  1 
cup  white  flour,  and  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder;  add  ^  cup  light  brown 
sugar,  1  egg  wel!  beaten,  and  3  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  lard;  tnix  i-\\  to- 
gether well,  and  add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make   a   batter   that  will   pour   and 

13 


194  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

spread  slowly,  but  not  as  thin  as  for  griddle  cakes;  bake  in  a  deep  tin  in  a  rather 
hot  oven,  allowing  plenty  of  room  for  it  to  rise.  Eat  hot  with  butter.  Try  this 
once  and  you  will  be  surprised  at  its  quality.  By  using  cornmeal  instead  of  the 
buckwheat  a  fine  corn  cake  is  made. 

Corn  Dodders. — Into  a  mixing-bowl  put  1  pint  white  cornmeal;  scald  by  add- 
ing just  enough  boiling  water  to  moisten  the  meal,  stirring  it  all  the  time;  work 
in  1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard,  and  when  cool  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  and  2  tablespoons  milk;  mix  well,  put  by  spoonfuls  into  a  large,  well-greased 
baking-pan,  and  bake  brown  on  both  sides. 

Indian  Bannock. — Mix  1  cup  boiling  milk,  %  piQt  cornmeal,  1  teaspoon  each 
of  salt  and  sugar;  when  partially  cooled,  add  2  eggs,  beaten  separately;  bake  in  a 
very  hot  oven  in  a  shallow  earthen  dish;  serve  like  a  pudding,  in  the  dish  it  is 
baked  in. 

Green  Corn  Patties. — For  every  cup  of  grated  green  corn  allow  1  egg, "%  cup  of 
milk  and  1  cup  of  flour;  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  should  be  well  mixed  with 
the  flour.  Stir  all  together  until  well  mixed,  then  bake  in  buttered  patty -pans. 
This  recipe  can  be  doubled,  if  the  family  to  be  served  requires  it. 


GEMS,  MUFFINS,  SCONES,  ETC. 

Wheat  Gems. — Beat  1  egg  light,  add  2  cups  milk  and  1  teaspoon  salt,  and 
granually  beat  it  into  2  cups  wheat  flour;  put  it  into  hot,  well-greased  gem-pans, 
and  bake  about  20  minutes. 

Wheat  Gems  No.  2. — Use  2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt;  flour  to  thicken. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

2  cups  sour  milk.  1  egg.  1  teaspoon  melted  butter  or  drippings. 

1  tablespoon  molasses.       1  teaspoon  salt. 

About  2  teacups  graham  flour.  Have  the  gem-pans  hot;  butter  and  fill  %  full. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Gems  No.  2. — Use  2  cups  sour  milk,  3  cups  graham  flour,  %  teaspoon 
soda;  beat  together  a  few  minutes,  drop  it  into  hot,  greased,  gem-pans,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  10  or  15  minutes. 

MUFFINS  (White  Flour). 
Vi  cup  sugar.  2  eggs.  1  cup  milk. 

2%  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Bake  in  cups,  or  hot  gem-pan.    Very  good. 

Muffins  No.  2. — Into  3  cups  flour  sift  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  a  little 
salt;  add  2  eggs  and  2  cups  milk;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  in  rings  or  gem-tins. 

Tea  Muffins. — Work  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  2  cups  flour;  add  %  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  2  even  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  stir 
together  thoroughly;  beat  1  egg,  add  to  it  1  cup  milk,  mix  it  with  the  flour  quickly, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  This  will  make  1  cake  in  a  brick-shaped  baking-pan; 
then  cut  in  squares  with  a  hot  knife. 

Buckwheat  Muffins. — To  1  pint  of  sour  milk  and  cream  mixed,  add  1  even  tea- 
spoon each  of  salt  and  soda,  and  make  a  stiff  batter  with  buckwheat  flour.  Bake 
in  a  square  tin,  in  a  hot  oven,  about  %  hour;  cut  in  squares,  and  serve  hot,  with 
fried  salt  pork,  and  milk  gravy  made  in  the  fat.  This  can  also  be  made  with  the 
prepared  buckwheat  flour,  by  making  a  stiff  batter  with  sweet  milk,  salt  and 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  195 

shortening;  put  in  a  hot  gem-pan,  and  serve  with  butter,  or  milk  gravy.    A  good 
breakfast  dish. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

3  cups  graham  flour.  2  tablespoons  sugar.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  white  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  all  together.  Then  take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  put  it 
into  1  pint  of  sweet  milk;  set  it  on  the  stove  until  the  butter  is  melted;  when 
cool,  mix  all  together  with  2  eggs,  and  bake. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS  NO.  3. 

2  cups  graham  flour.  2%  cups  sour  milk.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  cup  white  flour.  1  tablespoon  melted  shortening.       1  tablespoon  soda.     Salt. 

Cornmeal  Muffins. — Use  1  egg,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  granulated  yellow 
cornmeal,  1  cup  white  flour,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Butter  the  gem-pan  and  have  it  hot  before  putting  in  the 
batter,  bake  %  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

Cornmeal  Muffins  No.  2. — Use  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  cup  cornmeal,  1 
,cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  %  tablespoon  butter,  %  teaspoon  salt,  milk 
to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Raised  Muffins. — To  2  cups  scalded  milk,  add  butter  or  dripping  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  when  lukewarm  add  %oia,  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  ~% 
teacup  warm  water,  or  %  teacup  of  liquid  yeast;  add  1  egg  and  about  &  cups 
flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop  easily,  remembering  that  it  is 
thinner  after  rising.  Beat  all  well  together,  let  rise  till  light,  and  bake  in  buttered 
muffin  rings  on  a  gridle,  or  in  a  gem-pan.  Do  not  stir  it  down  before  baking; 
mix  at  night  for  breakfast,  and  in  the  morning  for  supper. 

Rice  Muffins. — Use  1  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  2  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  1  quart  milk,  or  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter;  bake  quickly. 

Rye  Muffins.— Sift  together  1  cup  wheat  flour,  %  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  3^  teaspoon  soda,  %  teaspoon  salt,  add  1  cup  rye  meal  (not  flour);  beat  1 
egg,  add  1  cup  milk,  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients,  beat  well,  put  in  hot,  greased 
muffin  tins,  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Gluten  Muffins.— To  1  egg,  beaten  light  without  separating,  add  1  pint  milk, 
1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  pint  gluten  flour;  beat  well,  add  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
pour  into  well -greased,  hot  muffin  rings,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  %  hour. 

Entire  Wheat  Muffins.— Mix  together  \%  cups  wheat  flour,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  sift  them  into  a  bowl.  Then 
beat  1  egg  till  light,  and  add  1  cup  milk  and  %  cup  of  water;  pour  this  on  to  the 
first  mixture,  and  beat  rapidly  and  energetically.  Have  buttered  muffin-pans 
ready,  pour  in  the  batter,  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven  about  25  minutes.  The 
batter  will  be  thin,  and  the  muffins  moist,  but  that  is  right. 

English  Crumpets. — In  3  cups  lukewarm  milk,  put  1  saltspoon  salt,  and  %  a 
yeast  cake  dissolved,  or  %  cup  liquid  yeast;  let  rise  till  light,  and  add  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  and  a  trifle  of  flour  to  keep  the  batter  from  becoming  too 
thin;  stir  in  hard,  1  saltspoon  soda,  let  stand  %  hour,  and  bake  in  patty-pans,  or 
muffin-rings. 

Graham  Crumpets. — Dissolve  %  cup  butter  in  1  quart  scalded  sweet  milk,' and 
when  cool,  add  1  cake  compressed  yeast  (soaked  in  a  little  water),  1  teaspoon  salt, 
and  2  tablespoons  sugar;  add  enough  graham  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter, 
and  beat  hard  a  few  minutes;  let  rise  over  night  in  a  warm  place,  and  in  the 
morning  add  2  well-beaten  eggs;  put  in  buttered  gem-tins,  let  rise  till  light,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


196  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

SAIXY  LUNN. 

2Ya  cups  flour.  H  cup  sugar.  3  tablespoons  butter  (melted). 

1  egg,  well  beaten.  1  cup  sweet  milk.  1J4  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

%  teaspoon  soda. 

Bake  20  minutes  in  muffin-rings,  or  in  square  pie-pans. 

Cornmeal  Scones.—  Mix  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt  and 
1  tablespoon  of  sugar  into  1  pint  cornmeal;  rub  in  with  the  hand  1  tablespoon 
butter;  make  it  into  a  batter  that  will  drop  from  a  spoon  (not  pour)  with  cold 
milk;  bake  like  ordinary  muffins  in  muffin-rings  on  a  griddle. 

Scotch  Scones. — Into  2  cups  flour  sift  2  small  teaspoons  baking  powder;  rub 
in  with  the  hand  4  tablespoons  butter,  adding  a  little  milk  to  bind  the  paste; 
flour  the  bread-board  and  pin,  roll  out  %  inch  thick,  cut  into  small  3-cornered 
pieces  with  a  sharp  knife;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  on  a  baking  sheet,  taking  out  as 
soon  as  they  are  lightly  and  evenly  colored. 

Oatmeal  Cakes. — Use  2  cups  of  oatmeal,  2  tablespoons  shortening  (either  butter, 
beef  fat,  or  saltpork  fat).  Rub  the  fat  into  the  meal;  add  cold  water  enough  to 
make  a  dough.  Mold  until  smooth,  roll  out  thin,  cut  into  rounds  or  squares,  and 
bake  quickly  in  a  hot  oven. 

Oatmeal  Cakes  No.  2. — Stir  oatmeal  with  cold  water,  making  a  thick  paste; 
salt  to  taste.  Make  into  little  round  cakes,  about  %  inch  thick,  in  tin  bake-pans, 
and  bake  in  an  oven  not  too  hot.    Excellent. 

Pop  Overs. — Use  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  flour,  1  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt;  beat  the 
white  and  yolk  of  the  egg  separately  until  very  light,  then  beat  all  well  together, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Breakfast  Puffs. — Use  1  cup  milk,  1%  CUPS  flour,  2  eggs,  %  teaspoon  salt; 
beat  5  minutes,  and  bake  in  gem-pans. 

Bread  Puffs. — Take  light  bread  dough,  roll  out  about  %  inch  thick,  cut  with  a 
biscuit-cutter,  drop  into  boiling  lard,  and  turn  over  very  quickly. 


GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

To  Keep  Buckwheat  Batter  Sweet.—  Cover  with  cold  water  the  batter  left 
after  you  are  done  baking  cakes;  drain  it  off  carefully  at  night  before  stirring  up 
fresh  batter;  the  batter  settles  at  the  bottom,  while  the  water  absorbs  the  acid, 
thus  keeping  the  batter  sweet  and  fresh. 

A  Substitute  for  Maple  Syrup. — Take  2  cups  light  brown  sugar  and  1  cup  of 
water  and  boil  until  a  nice  thick  syrup;  then  flavor  with  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
when  nearly  cold.  Nice  with  griddle  cakes  and  hot  biscuits.  Use  other  flavor- 
ing if  desired. 

Fruit  Syrup. — Dissolve  in  water  1  level  teaspoon  of  corn-starch,  put  into  1  pint 
tart  fruit  juice,  and  add  1%  cups  sugar.  Excellent  for  hot  griddle  cakes  and 
puddings. 

Caramel  Syrup,  a  recipe  for  preparing  which  we  give  elsewhere,  is  fine  with 
griddle  cakes. 

Tt  is  said  that  a  common  iron  griddle,  ground  down  smooth  on  a  grindstone  and  then 
polished  with  fine  sandpaper  on  a  flat  piece  of  wood,  is  superior  to  a  soapstone  griddle,  and 
can  be  used  without  grease. 

If  buckwheat  batter  has  a  small  spoonful  of  molasses  added  to  it  each  morning,  it  will 
give  the  cakes  a  fine  brown  color.  Grease  the  griddle  evenly,  and  do  not  leave  pools  of  fat 
to  burn  and  taint  the  cakes.  Turn  the  griddle  often,  to  keep  it  evenly  heated  on  all  sides; 
have  it  hot  enough,  so  the  mixture  hisses  or  sizzles  as  it  touches  it.  Do  not  turn  the  grid- 
dlecakes  mo-o  than  o -iC3,  as  that  will  make  th3  :i  hv<;  :y. 

Apple  (JriMle  Cakes.  -Put  1  cup  finely  caoppel  apple  in  1  quart  of  any  grid- 
dle cake  batter;  distribute  it  evenly  by  stirring  with  the  spoon  every  time  a  spoon- 
ful is  taken  out. 


BEEAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  197 

Buckwheat  Cakes. — Use  1  quart  buckwheat  flour,  %  cup  cornmeal,  1  table- 
spoon salt,  &  tablespoons  yeast,  1  tablespoon  molasses  (not  syrup);  mix  with  warm 
water  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  and  let  rise  over  night  in  a  warm  place.  If 
the  batter  is  the  least  bit  sour  in  the  morning,  a  little  soda  should  be  added,  and 
if  not  sour,  a  very  little  soda  will  make  them  more  light  and  tender. 

Quick  Buckwheat  Cakes. — To  2  cups  of  buckwheat  flour,  add  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  1  tablespoon  brown  sugar  (or  New  Orleans 
molasses  instead);  when  ready  to  bake,  add  2  cups  cold  water,  or  enough  to  make 
adbatter,  stirring  as  little  as  possible  after  it  is  stirred  smooth.  Wheat  flour,  corn- 
meal,  or  graham  flour,  may  be  added,  if  desired. 

Cornmeal  Griddle  Cakes. — Use  1  pint  cornmeal,  %  pint  sour  milk  and  1  tea- 
spoon soda  in  the  milk,  stirred  until  it  foams,  2  eggs  beaten  until  light,  salt  to 
taste;  have  the  griddle  hot  and  well  greased.  About  1  tablespoon  of  wheat  flour 
added  to  the  cornmeal  is  an  improvement. 

Cornmeal  Griddle  Calces  No.  2. — Use  1  cup  sweet  milk,  or  cold  water,  1  egg, 
2  cups  yellow  cornmeal,  x/%  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Strawberries  and  Griddle  Cakes. — If  you  want  a  delightful  dish,  use  hot 
cornmeal  griddle  cakes,  strawberries,  sugar  and  cream,  and  combine  them  sand- 
wich fashion. 

Stale  Bread  Griddle  Cakes. — Soak  2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  for  1  hour  in  1 
quart  of  milk  which  has  been  made  boiling  hot  to  pour  over  them;  beat  2  eggs  till 
light,  yolks  and  whites  separate;  into  the  soaked  bread-batter  put  first  the  beaten 
yolks,  then  3  ounces  flour,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  scant  teaspoon  salt;  beat 
thoroughly,  and  then  stir  in  very  lightly  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  the 
beaten  whites.  Grease  the  griddle  with  salt  pork  fat,  and  bake  quickly  in  small 
cakes.  These  are  about  the  lightest  and  most  digestible  griddle  cakes  that  are 
made. 

Oatmeal  Griddle  Cakes. — Use  1  cup  oatmeal,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  %  teaspoon  salt;  sift  the  baking  powder  in  with  the  flour; 
add  cold  water  to  make  a  batter  the  consistency  of  buckwheat  cakes;  beat 
together  well,  and  bake  immediately. 

Graham  Griddle  Cakes.— Use.  %  graham  and  %  wheat  flour;  mix  with  sour 
milk,  or  buttermilk,  and  soda  (1  small  teaspoon  soda  to  1  quart  milk);  add  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  1  egg.    Bake  immediately  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes. — To  1  cup  boiled  rice  add  %  CUP  milk,  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour  and  a  little  salt;  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  stir  them  with  the  other  ingredients  and  fry  as  soon  as  possible  after 
they  are  added,  on  a  hot,  buttered  griddle.  These  are  light,  digestible,  and 
especially  nice  for  invalids. 

Raised  Griddle  Cakes. — At  night  scald  1  cup  white  cornmeal  with  2  cups  boiling 
water;  while  warm  stir  in  2  cups  flour,  2  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar, 
and  2  tablespoons  yeast;  let  it  rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  add  2  eggs,  a 
little  salt,  and  %  teaspoon  baking  powder;  if  too  thin,  add  cornmeal  till  it  is  of 
the  right  consistency. 

Squash  Griddle  Cakes.— Into  1  cup  boiled  and  sifted  squash  (use  dry,  mealy 
squash)  pour  %  pin^  boiling  milk;  add  1  tablespoon  sugar,  2  teaspoons  butter,  % 
teaspoon  salt;  let  it  cool  and  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  and  1  cup  flour  into  which  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  have  been  sifted.  If  too  thick,  thin  with  milk;  add 
more  flour  if  too  thin. 

Pease  Griddle  Cakes  can  be  made  the  same  way,  by  using  instead  of  the 


198  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

squash,  1  cup  pease  which  have  been  boiled,  mashed,  and  passed  through  the 
squash  strainer. 

Flannel  Cakes. — Make  a  batter  with  y2  pint  milk;  and  3^  pint  flour  with  1  tea- 
spoon of  soda  sifted  into  it;  beat  in  1  teaspoon  melted  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  1 
egg;  add  more  milk  if  the  batter  is  too  thick;  bake  on  a  griddle. 


WAFFLES. 

Grease  the  waffle  iron  thoroughly,  as,  if  the  waffles  stick  it  is  hard  to  clean. 
Use  salt  pork  fat,  or  butter  wrapped  in  a  thin  clean  cloth.  Heat  the  iron  well,  both 
sides,  grease  it  and  only  fill  about  %  full,  leaving  room  for  them  to  rise;  cook  one 
side  a  minute,  then  turn  and  cook  the  other.  They  will  take  longer  to  bake  than 
griddle  cakes.  Butter  as  soon  as  done,  and  sprinkle  on  powdered  sugar,  or  serve 
with  lemon  syrup,  maple  syrup  or  caramel  sauce. 

Waffles  No.  1. — Into  4  cups  flour  sift  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  1  teaspoon 
each  of  sugar  and  salt;  add  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  and  1  cup  either  sweet  or 
sour  milk;  if  the  latter,  use  1  teaspoon  soda. 

No.  2. — Use  2  cups  buttermilk,  flour  enough  to  make  a  rather  thin  batter,  1 
teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  soda,  1  egg;  stir  the  milk,  flour  and  salt  together,  sift 
the  soda  in  the  batter,  beat  yolk  and  white  separately,  and  add  the  white  last. 
Have  the  waffle  irons  very  hot,  and  well  greased,  before  putting  in  the  batter. 
Salt  or  water  will  cause  the  waffles  to  stick  to  the  irons;  the  batter  is  also  apt  to 
stick  if  sour.  If  the  milk  is  very  sour  a  little  more  soda  than  the  above  can  be 
used.    Some  people  use  sweet  milk,  and  prefer  it. 

Raised  Waffles. — To  2  cups  flour  add  2  cups  milk  and  5  tablespoons  yeast;  let 
rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  add  2  teaspoons  melted  butter,  %  teaspoon 
salt,  and  2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  * 

Corn-Starch  Waffles.— Make  a  batter  with  2  cups  (heaped)  corn-starch,  1  scant 
cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  a  little  lemon  flavor,  adding  milk  as  needed;  warm  the  molds, 
butter  them  out  and  fill,  close  them,  place  on  the  fire,  then  turn  them  over;  repeat 
this  until  they  are  evenly  baked;  dust  sugar  over  them  when  done. 

Cornmeal  Waffles. — Take  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  pints  sour  milk  or  but- 
termilk, and  enough  cornmeal  to  make  a  batter  a  trifle  thicker  than  for  griddle 
cakes;  dissolve  1  teaspoon  soda  in  warm  water,  stir  it  into  the  milk,  and  add  a 
little  salt.    Use  %  wheat  flour  if  they  break  in  pieces  while  cooking. 

Rice  Waffles. — Use  2  eggs,  %  cup  boiled  rice,  1%  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  little  salt,  134  cups  milk;  mix  well  and  bake 
immediately. 

Rice  and  Cornmeal  Waffles. — Use  2  well-beaten  eggs,  ~%  pint  cold  boiled  rice, 
3^  pint  cornmeal,  %  pint  wheat  flour,  %  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  cups  milk;  beat  together  thoroughly  before  baking. 


MUSHES,   TOAST,   SANDWICHES,   ETC. 

MUSHES,  ETC. 

As  the  grain  of  which  mush  is  made  is  coarsely  ground,  in  order  to  cook  the 
starch  properly  and  soften  the  cellulose,  long  boiling  is  required.  Thorough 
cooking  is  the  most  important  point  connected  with  its  preparation. 

Cornmeal  Mush. — Have  the  water  boiling,  and  nothing  short  of  boiling,  with 
sufficient  salt  in  the  water  for  seasoning.    Stir  in  the  meal  gradually,  sifting  it 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  199 

slowly  through  the  fingers  of  the  left  hand  while  stirring  with  the  right.  Use  a 
kettle  with  a  rounding  bottom.  Do  not  make  it  too  thick  if  it  is  to  be  eaten  with 
milk,  or  with  sugar  and  milk  for  dessert.  If  it  is  to  fry,  1  or  2  handf uls  of  flour 
added  at  the  last  will  improve  it.  Mush  should  cook  very  thoroughly ;  after  it  is 
thickened  enough  set  it  on  top  of  the  stove  where  it  will  cook  slowly  1  or  2  hours; 
stir  often. 

No.  2. — Mix  1  cup  cornmeal  and  1  teaspoon  salt  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold 
water;  then  pour  on  2  pints  boiling  water,  put  it  in  a  double  boiler,  and  boil  4  or 
5  hours.  If  the  water  cooks  away  add  more  boiling  water  from  the  teakettle. 
There  is  no  danger  of  its  burning  in  the  double  boiler.  Anything  will  cook  faster 
in  the  double  boiler,  if  the  water  in  the  lower  boiler  is  strongly  salted. 

Fried  Mush. — Put  the  mush  in  brick  shaped  baking-tins  used  for  bread,  and 
when  cold  and  solid  cut  in  slices.  The  old  way  has  been  to  fry  the  slices  on  a 
spider  or  on  a  griddle  with  salt  pork  fat.  A  better  way  is  to  cut  the  slices  a  little 
less  than  %  inch  thick;  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  like  doughnuts  in  hot  fat.  Oatmeal  or  other  mushes  may  be  fried  in  the 
same  way. 

Green  Corn  Mush. — Take  corn  on  the  cob  when  the  milk  is  just  set,  grate  it, 
and  make  mush  in  the  ordinary  way;  eat  in  milk.    Excellent. 

Oatmeal  Mush. — Put  %  P^t  oatmeal  and  1  teaspoon  salt  into  the  double 
boiler;  add  4  cups  boiling  water,  set  the  upper  part  of  the  boiler  on  the  stove  and 
boil  4  or  5  minutes  to  start  the  cooking;  then  put  it  into  the  lower  boiler  and 
cook  3  to  5  hours;  salting  the  water  in  the  lower  boiler  makes  it  cook  faster.  It 
is  often  cooked  so  that  the  grains  are  whole,  but  it  is  not  then  so  easily  digested, 
nor  so  pleasant  in  flavor.  It  should  be  thin  enough  to  pour  when  done,  and  should 
cool  into  a  jelly-like  consistency.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  tart  jelly,  apple 
sauce  or  baked  apples. 

Graham  Mush. — Use  a  little  cold  water  and  mix  to  a  thin  paste  %  pint  graham 
flour  and  1  teaspoon  salt;  stir  in  4  cups  boiling  water,  and  cook  like  oatmeal 
mush,  but  it  does  not  need  to  cook  so  long.  Just  before  taking  graham  mush 
from  the  fire,  stir  in  stoned  dates,  and  you  will  find  it  makes  a  very  nice  pudding. 

Buckwheat  Mush. — Mush  made  of  buckwheat  flour  is  made  in  the  same  way 
as  cornmeal  mush,  but  requires  less  cooking.  When  cold  it  can  be  fried,  if  de- 
sired, like  cornmeal  mush. 

Gluten  Mush.— Use  2  cups  boiling  water  to  1  cup  gluten;  cook  like  graham 
mush.    It  does  not  thicken  because  it  contains  no  starch. 

Rye  Mush. — Cook  as  directed  for  graham  mush.  It  is  served  with  molasses 
often. 

Hominy  Mush. — Cook  in  the  double  boiler  3  or  4  hours  as  directed  for  oat- 
meal mush,  using  a  little  over  4  times  its  bulk  of  water,  and  salt  to  taste.  (For 
the  long  cooking  absolutely  necessary  with  corn  preparations,  the  double  boiler 
is  much  the  best  thing  to  use.)  It  can  be  eaten  in  bowls  with  milk,  or  for  dessert 
with  hard  sauce.    When  cold,  it  can  be  fried  as  directed  for  cornmeal  mush. 

Cracked  Wheat.— Pick  over  %  Pm^  cracked  wheat,  put  it  in  a  double  boiler, 
add  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  3  cups  boiling  water,  and  cook  it  2  or  3  hours.  It  cooks 
best  in  a  double  boiler.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  It  can,  if  desired,  be 
poured  into  cups  or  jelly-molds,  wet  with  cold  water,  and  so  molded. 

Farina. — Into  2  cups  boiling  water,  put  %  saltspoon  salt,  and  3  tablespoons 
farina;  let  it  actually  boil  in  a  sauce-pan  20  minutes,  or  cook  1  hour  in  a  double 
boiler.    Serve  with  sugar  and  milk  or  cream. 


200  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

Gramila. — To  1  cup  granula  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  1%  cups  boiling  water, 
and  boil  10  to  15  minutes;  this  is  better  than  to  boil  it  1  minute  in  milk  as  is  often 
recommended.  It  is  a  preparation  of  grain  prepared  by  dry  heat,  and  is  cooked 
nearly  enough  when  bought. 

Wheat  Germ. — Use  1%  cups  boiling  water,  %  teaspoon  salt,  and  %  cup  wheat 
germ,  and  boil  30  minutes  in  an  uncovered  sauce-pan,  or  1  hour  in  a  double  boiler; 
it  is  doubtful  if  it  is  wholesome  cooked  in  the  short  time  directed  on  the  pack- 
ages.   Imperial  Granum  can  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

Hulled  Corn. — Soak  a  quart  of  yellow  corn  overnight;  the  next  morning  pour 
off  the  water  and  put  the  corn  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  containing  a  cheese-cloth 
bag,  holding  a  pint,  or  a  little  more,  of  clean  wood  ashes.  Boil  until  the  hulls 
begin  to  come  off,  then  pour  off  the  lye;  rub  the  corn  well  in  cool  water  to  remove 
the  hulls,  then  boil  again  in  clear  water  until  soft;  changing  the  water  once  or 
twice  to  take  out  the  taste  of  the  lye  as  much  as  possible.  Hulled  corn  is  eaten 
with  milk  like  mush,  and  like  mush  it  is  fried  when  cold. 

Hasty  Pudding. — Into  2  cups  cold  milk,  stir  2  cups  cornmeal,  2  teaspoons  flour, 
1  teaspoon  salt;  gradually  stir  this  into  4  cups  boiling  water,  and  boil  30  minutes, 
stirring  it  frequently.     It  can  be  fried  when  cold  as  directed  for  cornmeal  mush. 

TOAST. 

Simple  as  the  process  of  making  it  seems,  perfect  toast  is  very  rare.  Good 
toast  should  be  crisp  and  golden  clear  through,  not  brown  outside  and  clammy  in 
the  center.  Use  stale  bread,  cut  even  slices  about  %  mcn  thick,  heat  them  grad- 
ually at  first,  so  that  the  heat  may  penetrate  to  the  center  of  the  slice  and  evap- 
orate the  water  before  the  outside  is  crusted  over;  dry  it  carefully,  and,  when  well 
dried,  move  it  near  the  coals  (which  should  be  clear 'and  red),  and  it  will  quickly 
turn  a  golden  brown. 

Toast  is  often  eaten  which  is  cut  in  thick  slices,  browned  outside,  and  left  clammy  in 
the  center.  Such  toast  is  less  wholesome  than  untoasted  bread,  and  is  wholly  unfit  for 
invalids,  although  healthy  stomachs  may  cope  with  it.  Wellmade  toast  is  very  easy  of 
digestion,  and  well  suited  for  invalids,  because  starch,  when  heated  to  401°,  is  turned  to 
dextrin,  and  that  is  much  more  easily  digested  than  the  starch.  The  object  should  be  to 
turn  as  much  of  the  starch  as  possible  to  dextrin,  and  clear  through  the  bread,  not  merely  a 
little  on  the  outside.  A  little  caramel  is  also  developed  usually  in  toasting  bread.  Some 
people  prefer  toast  soft  inside  and  browned  outside,"  because  they  say  it  is  easier  to  eat,  but 
if  you  will  try  it  you  will  find  good,  dry  toast  easily  breaks  and  crumbles  ■  apart,  and  is 
readily  moistened  by  the  saliva.  For  invalids  always  instead  of  leaving  toast  soft  inside,  it 
is  better  to  toast  the  bread  well,  and  then  dip  it  in  hot  water  for  an  instant  to  moisten  it,  but 
dc  not  soak  it.  If  possible,  serve  dry  toast  directly  from  the  fire;  if  not,  pile  it  on  a  plate, 
lay  a  napkin  over  it,  and  set  it  in  the  oven,  or  on  the  hearth  to  keep  warm.  Be  careful  not 
to  burn  the  outside  while  toasting  bread.  For  ordinary  use  (not  for  invalids)  the  thicker 
slices  of  bread,  less  perfectly  toasted,  can,  of  course,  be  eaten  by  those  who  prefer  them.. 

Water  Toast. — Prepare  a  pan  of  boiling  hot  water,  adding  always  1  teaspoon 
salt  to  the  quart  of  water.  Dip  in  each  slice  of  toast  quickly;  moisten  the  toast 
merely,  but  do  not  let  it  soak,  as  sloppy,  sodden  toast  is  not  good.  Butter  each 
slice  and  pile  them  on  a  hot  plate.  Apple  sauce,  baked  apples,  poached  eggs, 
and  minced  meats  go  with  this  kind  of  toast. 

Milk  Toast. — For  plain  milk  toast,  toast  the  bread,  and  pour  3  or  4  tablespoons 
of  boiling  salted  milk  or  cream  on  each  slice.  The  toast  can  be  buttered  or  not, 
as  preferred,  before  pouring  on  the  hot  milk.  Crackers  can  be  split,  toasted,  and 
prepared  the  same  way.  Or,  scald  the  milk,  add  for  each  pint  1  tablespoon  corn- 
starch, or  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  butter,  and  %  teaspoon 
salt;  prepare  the  toast,  moisten  it,  dip  each  slice  in  the  hot,  thickened  milk,  put 
all  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  balance  of  the  thickened  milk  over  it.    Serve  hot. 

Cream  Toast.— Put  2  cups  milk  into  a  sauce-pan  and  bring  it  to  a  boil;  while  it 
is  heating,  put  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  in  another  sauce-pan,  stir 
them  together  gently  while  the  butter  is  melting,  and  then  let  them  bubble  2  or 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  201 

3  minutes  together;  then  add  the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  it  in  well 
till  it  is  smooth  and  free  from  lumps;  let  it  simmer  while  preparing  the  toast. 
Toast  the  bread,  soak  it  thoroughly  in  salted  boiling  milk  (as  the  cream  will  be 
too  thick  to  soften  it),  put  it  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  prepared  cream  over  and  be- 
tween the  slices. 

Meringued  Toast. — Prepare  a  meringue  by  dissolving  1  teaspoon  butter  in  % 
cup  boiling  milk,  and  just  before  taking  it  from  the  tire,  stir  in  the  well-beaten 
white  of  1  egg;  pour  this  over  freshly-toasted  bread,  which  has  been  dipped  in 
slightly  salted  water;  put  it  in  the  oven  5  minutes,  and  delicately  brown  the  me- 
ringue. 

Vermicelli  Toast. — Pass  the  yolk  of  hard-boiled  eggs  through  a  coarse  strainer; 
it  will  fall  out  in  broken  threads,  looking  something  like  vermicelli;  scatter  it 
over  cream  toast. 

Toasted  Graham  Gems. — Split  the  gems,  toast  nicely,  and  while  they  are  toast- 
ing, heat  some  rich  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  add  a  little  salt,  butter,  and  thicken 
with  flour  moistened  with  cold  milk,  and  pour  over  the  toasted  gems.  Gems  left 
one  day  may  be  thus  utilized  for  the  next  day's  breakfast. 

Strawberry  Toast. — Toast  thick  slices  of  bread,  butter  them,  and  pile  them 
with  alternate  layers  of  strawberries,  crushed  and  sweetened  as  for  shortcake, 
with  strawberries  on  top;  serve  with  cream,  at  once  and  while  hot. 

SANDWICHES. 

Bread  for  sandwiches  should  be  one  day  old,  and  a  brick-shaped  loaf  is  the 
best.  Cut  the  crust  from  the  end,  then  spread  the  end  of  the  loaf  evenly  with 
softened  butter,  or  compounds  of  butter,  seasoned  meat,  etc.,  if  desired,  then  with 
a  sharp  knife  cut  the  buttered  slice  from  the  loaf.  In  this  way  the  bread  is  not 
broken,  as  it  is  apt  to  be  if  very  tender,  when  spread  after  slicing.  Spread  and 
cut  in  this  way  until  the  loaf  is  used.  Place  two  of  the  spread  slices  together, 
press  firmly,  and  trim  in  any  way  liked.  They  may  be  cut  in  rounds  or  heart- 
shaped  with  biscuit  cutters;  the  crust  may  be  trimmed  off  and  the  sandwiches 
cut  from  corner  to  corner,  making  triangles;  or  for  ordinary  occasions  they  may 
be  left  untrimmed,  as  many  persons  prefer  them  with  the  crusts. 

For  hearty,  hungry  children,  nothing  is  better  for  luncheons,  picnic  refresh- 
ments, etc.,  than  sandwiches.  Spread  evenly  the  end  of  a  loaf  of  good  home-made 
bread,  a  day  old,  then  cut  it  off  %  inch  thick,  spread  another  slice  with  butter, 
place  boiled  ham,  cold  tongue,  roast  beef  or  chicken,  on  one  slice,  cover  it  with 
another,  and  press  tightly  together;  roll  each  one  in  buttered  paper,  or  all  together 
in  a  clean  napkin.  To  keep  them  moist  until  eaten,  put  them  after  wrapping, 
into  a  tin  pail,  and  cover  tightly. 

If  the  meat  used  for  filling  sandwiches  is  chopped  fine  it  will  be  much  more 
convenient  to  eat.  In  putting  up  sandwiches  for  picnics,  etc.,  it  will  add  to 
their  appearance  to  tie  them  with  ribbon  in  packages;  a  different  colored  ribbon 
can  be  used  effectively  for  each  kind  of  sandwich. 

Although  it  is  a  little  more  trouble  to  make  them,  sandwiches  can  be  improved 
both  in  appearance  and  flavor  by  cutting  thin  slices  of  bread  into  small  square, 
oval,  or  round  pieces,  and  frying  them  in  smoking  hot  fat  to  a  light  golded  brown; 
then  drain  on  blotting  paper.  These  pieces  can  be  made  into  anchovy,  lobster, 
egg,  salmon,  chicken  or  other  sandwiches,  piled  high  on  plates  with  bright  green 
parsley  around  the  base.  Such  sandwiches  are  admirably  adapted  for  evening 
parties,  and  will  be  more  appreciated  than  second  and  third  rate  sweets. 

Mustard  or  Anchovy  Butter  for  sandwiches  may  be  prepared  as  follows:  For 
mustard  butter,  take  soft  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  2  tablespoons  of  good 
mustard,  put  them  in  a  stone  mortar  and  work  them  together  with  the  pestle  till 
perfectly  mixed.  For  anchovy  butter  take  the  same  amount  of  butter  and  1  tea- 
spoon of  anchovy  paste,  and  work  them  together  in  the  same  way.  Same  pro- 
portions for  larger  quantities. 


202  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

Aberdeen  Sandwiches. — Put  in  the  chopping-bowl  cold  meat,  either  of  veal, 
ham,  beef  or  poultry,  and  chop  it  very  fine;  for  1  teacup  of  chopped  meat,  add  to 
it  a  piece  of  softened  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  with  1  or 
2  spoonfuls  of  water  to  slightly  moisten  it,  and  1  teacup  of  fine  bread  crumbs;  chop 
and  mix  all  to  a  paste.  Take  a  bit  of  the  mixture  on  the  molding-board,  and 
with  a  knife  wet  in  hot  water,  form  it  into  a  strip  about  3  inches  long  and  2  wide. 
Trim  off  the  edges,  detach  it  from  the  board  with  a  knife,  and  roll  into  an  oblong 
shape.  If  it  is  too  dry  to  roll  without  cracking,  add  a  little  more  water;  if  too 
wet,  add  more  bread  crumbs.    These  are  served  with  lettuce,  or  cresses. 

Anchovy  and  Egg  Sandwiches. — Bone  anchovies,  steep  them  in  milk  for  2  hours 
and  chop  fine;  also  mince  hard-boiled  eggs  very  fine;  sprinkle  the  chopped  egg  on 
a  slice  of  buttered  bread,  cover  with  the  anchovy,  add  pepper  and  a  layer  of  mus- 
tard and  cress,  and  lay  on  the  other  slice  of  buttered  bread. 

Baked  Sandwiches. — Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  thin  slices  of  cold  meat,  put 
them  between  thin  slices  of  bread,  form  them  into  a  pile  5  or  6  inches  high,  fasten 
them  together  with  a  skewer,  and  brown  them  until  the  bread  is  crisp,  in  a  hot 
oven,  first  basting  them  with  melted  butter. 

Cheese  Sandwiches. — Mix  together  34  1°-  of  grated  cheese,  and  %  teaspoon  each 
of  pepper,  salt  and  mustard,  add  1  tablespoon  each  of  vinegar  and  melted  butter, 
make  it  to  a  paste,  and  spread  it  thin  on  the  buttered  bread. 

Egg  Sandwiches. — (1)  Put  between  buttered  slices  of  bread  moderately  thin 
slices  of  hard-boiled  egg,  seasoning  them  with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  (2)  Chop 
the  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs  very  fine;  mash  the  yolks,  and  mix  with  melted 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  If  not  smooth  enough,  add  thick  cream.  Spread  the 
paste  on  the  bread. 

Fish  Sandwiches. — Use  any  kind  of  cooked  fish,  chop  it  finely,  make  it  into  a 
soft  paste  with  butter,  and  season  it  well. 

Ginger  Sandwiches. — Use  the  preserved  ginger  which  comes  in  small  jars;  cut 
very  thin,  and  put  between  slices  of  buttered  bread.  Cover  with  a  damp  napkin 
until  ready  to  serve. 

Ham  Sandwiches. — Boil  the  ham  the  day  before,  slice  it  as  thin  as  possible,  and 
lay  it  between  the  thin,  buttered  slices  of  bread.  Spread  on  a  little  mustard,  or 
not,  as  preferred.  Chopped  ham  sandwiches  can  be  made  by  chopping  the  ham 
as  fine  as  grated  cheese,  and  making  it  to  a  paste  with  melted  butter,  or  butter 
and  cream,  or  beaten  egg,  as  preferred,  with  mixed  mustard,  pepper,  and  a  little 
finely  chopped  pickle.    Then  spread  the  paste  on  the  bread. 

Honover  Sandwiches. — To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  %Db.  best  but- 
ter, 3  tablespoons  mixed  mustard,  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  beat  all  together  very 
smoothly,  and  set  on  ice.  Spread  it  on  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  put  between  the 
slices  very  finely  chopped  tongue  and  ham,  to  which  a  little  chicken  or  roast 
beef  is  added.  This  makes  a  delicious  sandwich.  Thin  slices  of  pressed  beef 
may  also  be  used. 

Labette  Sandwiches. — Spread  Devonshire  cream  on  thin  buttered  slices  of 
broivn  bread;  then  spread  on  apricot  jam,  being  careful  that  there  are  no  lumps 
in  it,  then  lay  on  another  slice  of  buttered  bread,  and  press  together. 

Lettuce  Sandwiches. — Put  crisp  lettuce  leaves  between  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread;  serve  as  soon  as  possible  after  preparing.  Add  a  mayonnaise  dressing  if 
preferred.  Various  Sandwiches  can  be  thus  made  by  using  instead  of  the  let- 
tuce, the  plumed  tops  of  young  white  celery;  or  nasturtium  leaves;  or  young 
dandelion  leaves;  or  peppergrass;  or  water-cress ;  and  so  on. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  203 

Lobster  Sandwiches. — Pound  together  in  a  mortar  until  quite  smooth  %  lb. 
lobster  meat,  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  oz.  butter,  5  capers,  pepper,  salt, 
and  cayenne  to  taste.  Spread  thinly  on  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  sprinkle  with 
a  very  little  chopped  mustard  and  cress,  if  liked,  cover  with  another  slice  of  bread 
and  butter,  cut  neatly,  and  serve. 

Salmon  Sandwiches. — Drain  all  the  oil  from  canned  salmon,  remove  all  skin 
and  bone,  reduce  it  to  a  paste,  season,  spread  some  on  one  slice  of  buttered  bread, 
squeeze  lemon  juice  over  it,  and  lay  on  the  other  buttered  slice  of  bread. 

Sardine  Sandwiches.— (1)  Drain  the  sardines  from  the  oil,  put  them  in  hot 
water  a  few  minutes  which  will  take  out  the  grease,  drain  them,  dry  in  a  cloth, 
and  pound  to  a  paste;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  little  very  finely  chopped 
lettuce,  and  spread  it  on  the  bread.  (2)  Chop  the  fish  fine,  add  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice,  and  cover  the  buttered  bread  with  it. 

Tomato  Sandwiches. — (1)  Spread  a  French  dressing  over  the  buttered  slices  of 
bread,  and  put  slices  of  tomatoes  between  them.  (2)  Put  potted  beef  on  the 
lower  buttered  slice,  lay  on  thin  slices  of  tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  lay  on  the  top  slice. 

Various  Sandwiches. — A  little  ingenuity  will  invent  an  almost  endless  variety 
of  new  and  attractive  sandwiches.  We  suggest  a  few  more.  (1)  Prawns  or 
shrimps  may  be  used  instead  of  lobster.  (2)  Fresh  caviare  spread  on  bread  and 
butter,  with  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  if  liked,  a  little  minced 
salad,  is  excellent.  (3)  Slices  of  cucumber,  dressed  with  oil  and  vinegar,  make  a  de- 
licious sandwich.  (4)  Use  yolks  of  eggs  pounded  with  butter  and  Parmesan  cheese. 
(5)  Make  pate  de  foie  gras  sandwiches,  with  or  without  water-cress.  (6)  Make 
salmon  or  shrimp  sandwiches  with  mayonnaise  sauce  and  minced  salad.  (7)  Put 
kippered  salmon  in  thin  shreds  between  slices  of  broivn  bread  and  butter.  (8) 
Vary  any  sandwich  by  using  mayonnaise,  bechamel  or  other  sauce. 


PASTRY. 


Notwithstanding  the  frequent  denunciations  of  pastry  for  its  unhealthf ulness, 
people  will  eat  pie,  and  a  thorough  knowledge  of  pastry-making  is  indispensable 
to  the  economical  housewife.  To  succeed  in  this,  certain  rules  must  be  remem- 
bered and  implicitly  carried  out.  The  excellence  of  puff  paste  depends  upon  the 
quality  of  the  materials  used,  the  lightness  of  hand  and  dexterity  of  the  operator, 
and  the  coldness  of  the  materials.  The  hands  should  be  washed  very  clean,  and 
then  dipped  into  very  hot  and  then  into  cold  water.  The  mixing-bowl 
should  also  be  filled  with  hot,  and  then  with  cold  water,  which  makes  it  smooth 
and  prevents  the  butter  from  sticking.  The  slab  or  board  for  working  upon 
should  be  smooth,  clean  and  dry.  A  marble  slab  is  better  than  a  board  because 
it  keeps  the  pastry  cooler,  but  few  can  command  this,  and  a  board  is  more  fre- 
quently used. 

The  Flour. — The  flour  used  should  be  of  a  fine  quality,  and  should  be  thor- 
oughly sifted,  dried  and  chilled.  For  making  paste  a  starchy  flour  is  better  than 
one  rich  in  gluten,  and  that  is  what  is  meant  by  pastry  flour.  Although  eggs  are 
commonly  used  in  paste,  they  are  really  not  necessary,  and  a  good  paste  can  be 
made  without  them.  The  butter  should  be  of  good  quality  and  pliable,  or  it  will 
not  mix  properly  with  the  pastry.  Work  it  in  clear,  cold  water,  to  free  it  from 
salt  and  buttermilk,  and  the  pastry  will  then  be  more  delicate;  then  keep  it 
cold  until  used. 

Method  of  Making  Paste. — The  method  of  making  paste  is  as  follows:  For 
the  best  paste  use  1  Bb.  of  butter  to  1  lb.  of  flour  (if  measured  use  2  pints  flour  to 
1  pint  butter).  Take  1  K>.  of  the  washed  butter,  flatten  it  out,  press  it  on  all  sides 
to  remove  the  moisture,  keep  out  about  2  or  3  oz.  and  put  the  balance  in  a  floured 
cloth  on  ice  till  needed.  Now  put  the  1  lb.  of  sifted  and  chilled  flour  into  the 
mixing -bowl,  keeping  out  about  2  oz.  for  sprinkling  the  board  with,  put  in  the  3 
oz.  of  butter  and  1  small  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  the  eggs  if  they  are  used,  and  with 
the  tips  of  the  fingers  work  them  into  the  flour.  Many  chop  these  ingredients 
together  to  avoid  heating  them  with  the  fingers.  Add  a  little  ice  cold  water 
occasionally,  and  keep  mixing  until  a  perfectly  smooth  paste  is  formed.  A  cup- 
ful of  water,  more  or  less,  will  be  needed.  When  the  paste  is  of  the  right  con- 
sistency, and  forms  a  smooth  ball,  dust  the  board  lightly  with  flour,  and  remove 
the  paste  on  to  it,  and  pound  it  lightly  with  the  rolling-pin  to  toughen  it.  Then 
roll  it  out  about  3^  inch  thick,  always  using  a  well-floured  rolling-pin,  and 
rolling  from  you.  Then  take  the  cold  butter  and  roll  it  out  in  the  same  way,  only 

smaller,  and  lay  it  upon  the  paste, 
and  fold  the  ends  of  the  paste  over 
the  butter  as  shown  in  Fig.  1.  (The 
butter  is  sometimes  cut  into  3 
pieces  and  only  1  piece  worked  in 
at  a  time,  but  the  method  would  be 
the  same.)  Then  turn  it  bottom  up 
on  the  board,  and  roll  it  out  care- 
fully, using  a  light,  quick  stroke, 
and  being  careful  not  to  break  the 
paste,  as  the  aim  should  be  to 
keep  all  the  air  possible  inside,  to 
assist  in  making  it  rise.  If  by 
accident  the  dough  breaks,  lay  on 
a  piece  of  plain  dough  (a  little 
plain  dough  may  be  kept  out  for 
this  purpose),  dust  on  flour,  and  go 
on  with  the  rolling.  Roll  it  out 
into  a  sheet  about  %  inch  thick, 
FIG.  1,    paste  folded  oveb  the  butter,      and  fold  %  of  it  over  on  to  the 

(204) 


PASTRY. 


205 


balance,  and  then  the  other  side  over  on  to  that,  making  3  layers  about  3 
times  as  long  as  it  is  wide,  as  shown  in  Fig.  2;  then  turn  it,  and  fold  it  lengthwise 
into  3  thicknesses  as  shown  in  Fig.  3,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  rolling  out  again. 
This  is  known  as  the  "first  turn." 

In  lifting  the  paste  at  any  time  let  it  roll  up  on  the  roller,  then  lift  it  gently, 
dust  a  little  flour  on  the  board,  and  gently  unroll  the  paste  the  way  you  want 
it  to  lie,  having  the  side  which  was  next  the  roller  come  next  the  board.  The 
process  just  described  as  the  "first  turn"  should  be  repeated  3  or  4  times  for  com- 
mon pies,  and  6  or  7  times  for  the  best  pastry,  but  should  be  repeated  until 
no  streaks  of  butter  can  be  seen.  The  more  layers  there  are  the  more  "flaky"  it 
will  be.  To  keep  the  butter  evenly  distributed  so  that  the  paste  will  rise  evenly, 
it  is  folded  in  an  opposite  direction  each  time,  and  after  each  "turn"  it  is  laid 
with  the  top  of  the  paste  on  the  board,  thus  turning  it  over.  It  is  customary  in 
warm  weather  (it  is  a  good  plan  at  any  time)  to  put  it  on  ice  for  5  or  10  minutes 

between  each  "turn."  This  may  be  done 
by  putting  it  in  a  long,  floured  pan,  put- 
ting it  on  ice,  and  then  set  another  pan 
filled  with  ice  on  top  of  it,  thus  having 
ice  both  above  and  below.  The  top  tin 
should  not  be  heavy  with  ice,  as  only  a 
little  ice  is  needed.  Tins  are  best,  because 
dishes  would  not  conduct  heat  readily 
enough  to  cool  the  paste  quickly.  After 
making  the  last  "turn,"  roll  the  paste  out 
about  34  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  in  shape 
for  pies,  patties,  etc.     Some  cooks  think 


PIG.  2.   ROLLED  PASTE  FOLDED  OVER.    FIG.  3.  PASTE  AFTER  MAKING  A  "TURN." 

that  the  shortest  route  from  the  flour  barrel  to  the  bake  oven  is  the  best  for 
pastry,  and  others  prefer  to  set  the  paste  aside  in  a  cold  place  and  bake  next  day. 
Skillful  cooks  obtain  good  results  either  way.  From  first  to  last  the  paste 
should  be  kept  as  cold  as  possible. 

If  not  ready  to  bake  at  once  when  made  up,  keep  the  paste  in  the  ice-chest 
until  wanted.  We  knew  of  one  lady  who  had  a  long,  slim  glass  bottle  which  she 
filled  with  ice-water  and  used  for  a  rolling-pin.  Pastry  should  be  rolled  lightly, 
the  rolling-pin  often  lifted  and  but  little  pressed  upon,  so  as  not  to  force  out 
the  air. 

The  point  to  aim  at  in  making  puff  paste  is  to  have  as  many  alternate  layers 
of  butter  and  dough  as  possible,  and  to  have  each  layer  so  light  and  thin  that  in 
baWnrT  *.t  w:!l  v:c-o  separately.  The  pn^te  :vi!l  be  difficult  to  miria^e,  nnd  h  failure!, 
\jio.j*  ,i;\  ti  iu  ij  eliiier  too  dry  a.;  1  sti;}"  or  soft  and  ft-  :•:  .  '  "  ,;*'.  -r  .-.;,,  is 
the  least  c.ainp,  the  paste  malo  from  it  may  bo  he.  vy  The  icos  Aor-  used  in 
rolling  the  paste  the  better,  as  if  an  excess  of  flour  is  used  the  Cakes  will  be  pale, 
thick  and  tough,  if  not  absolutely  flat  and  heavy,  and  the  baking  will  be  much 
slower.    Using  coarse  and  heavy  flour  may  produce  a  similar  result,  and  so  may 


206  PASTRY. 

Blow  and  heavy  handling,  a  warm  or  irregular  temperature  when  working,  or 
faulty  baking. 

The  Butter. — If  the  butter  is  not  right,  rapid  handling,  partial  freezing,  an 
extra  sprinkle  of  flour  and  a  little  cream  of  tartar  may  keep  the  flakes  separated 
until  the  oven  is  reached  and  the  baking  begins;  it  will  bake  sharp  and  crisp  with 
a  quick  heat,  but  the  butter  will  fry  out  and  cover  the  flakes  of  paste  and  they 
will  be  found  greasy  to  the  touch  when  removed  from  the  oven.  Do  not  suppose 
that  if  the  butter  and  paste  are  not  in  the  best  condition  possible  the  amount  of 
the  butter  can  be  reduced  in  the  finishing  process  of  rolling  together;  there  will 
be  fewer  layers  of  paste,  the  quality  inferior  and  the  quantity  less. 

For  some  dishes  a  rich  crust  is  neither  so  digestible  nor  so  suitable  as  a  sub- 
stantial light  one,  and  a  light,  quick,  cool  hand  will  influence  the  lightness  of  the 
pastry  as  well  as  the  quantity  of  butter  used. 

Baking-Tins. — For  baking,  tin  plates  should  always  be  used,  as  the  under 
crust  will  be  apt  to  not  bake  well  in  anything  earthen;  the  crust  will  readily  sep- 
arate from  the  pan  when  done.  It  should  then  be  taken  off  the  plate  at  once,  or 
the  under  crust  may  get  "soggy."  Grease  pie-tins  well  before  laying  on  the  crust; 
for  some  kinds  of  pastry  they  are  wet  with  water  instead  of  being  greased. 

The  Oven. — The  heat  of  the  oven  is  important.  If  too  hot,  the  top  will  become 
scorched  before  the  pastry  is  risen;  if  too  cold,  it  will  melt,  spread,  and  the  paste 
become  heavy  and  sodden.  It  is  best,  therefore,  to  keep  the  pastry  out  until  the 
oven  is  right.  Experience  will  guide  in  this,  but  a  good  plan  is  to  try  the  heat  of 
the  oven  first  with  a  small  piece  of  paste;  the  heat  should  be  strong  enough  to 
cause  the  cold  air  in  the  paste  to  expand,  and  so  make  it  rise,  and  then  quickly 
set  it  in  the  form  given  by  this  expansion  of  the  air.  The  heat  should  be  strong 
underneath  at  first,  to  make  the  paste  rise  well  before  browning  on  top;  then  turn 
the  heat  from  below,  or  to  prevent  burning,  put  a  grate  or  pan  under  the  baking- 
tin,  and  quicken  the  heat  on  top.  To  bake  it  a  delicate  brown,  15  minutes  is 
usually  enough.    The  pie  should  slip  on  the  tin  when' done. 

The  Two  Crusts. — In  making  pies  with  an  upper  crust  always  make  small 
holes  in  it  to  allow  for  the  escape  of  steam,  or  that  will  burst  the  crust.  These 
holes  may  be  made  in  any  fanciful  shape  desired.  An  excellent  plan  is  to  use  a 
rich  paste  for  the  top  crust,  and  a  plainer  one,  with  much  less  shortening,  for  the 
under  one.  Have  the  under  crust  a  little  the  thicker.  If  there  is  no  upper 
crust,  have  a  heavy  edge  on  the  pie.  Mixing  the  white  flour  with  %to%  its  bulk 
of  cornmeal  is  said  to  make  pie  crust  lighter  and  more  digestible.  A  fine  brown 
color  will  be  given  to  the  upper  crust  of  pies  if,  just  before  putting  them  in  the 
oven,  they  are  brushed  over  with  milk. 

To  Prevent  Juice  From  Running  Out. — To  prevent  the  juices  of  fruit  pies 
from  running  over,  which  is  so  annoying  to  cooks,  various  plans  have  been  em- 
ployed. (1)  Mix  the  sugar  with  a  little  flour  and  spread  this  over  the  bottom  • 
crust  before  putting  in  the  fruit.  (2)  In  all  fruit  filling  stir  the  flour  into  the 
fruit,  so  that  all  the  fruit  may  be  covered,  instead  of  sprinkling  it  on  top.  Also 
avoid  having  too  much  fruit  in  the  pie,  and  add  no  water,  as  the  fruits  make  their 
own  juice.  (3)  Have  a  pie-tin  deep  enough  to  allow  a  wall  of  crust  deep  enough 
to  hold  in  the  juice.  (4)  Make  a  small  tube  of  writing  paper  about  %  inch  in 
diameter,  and  let  it  set  through  the  upper  and  rest  on  the  under  crust.  The  juice 
will  bubble  up  in  this  instead  of  running  out.  (4)  Fasten  the  upper  crust  se- 
curely by  turning  the  edge  of  it  under  the  under  crust,  first  wetting  the  latter 
with  a  little  beaten  white  of  egg  or  water.  Sometimes  the  white  of  egg  is  used, 
and  the  two  firmly  pressed  together  without  turning  the  upper  under  the  lower 
crust.  (5)  Wet  the  edge  of  the  under  crust  and  press  the  two  together;  then 
wet  a  strip  of  white  cloth,  about  2  inches  wide,  and  fasten  it  nicely  around  the 
edges  of  the  crust;  it  can  easily  be  removed  when  the  pie  is  done,  and  will  hold  in 
the  juice. 

All  the  small  juicy  fruits,  like  strawberries,  raspberries,  blueberries  and  black- 
berries, can  be  made  to  retain  their  juices  in  the  crust  by  mixing  with  the  sugar 
used  for  sweetening  them  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  either  flour,  corn -starch,  arrow- 
root, or  cracker-dust.  The  mixture  should  be  well  shaken  down  through  the 
berries  before  the  top  crust  is  put  on;  as  the  sugar  draws  out  the  juice,  it  is  bet- 
ter not  to  sprinkle  it  on  the  fruit  until  that  is  put  in  the  crust.  The  under  crust 
in  these  pies  will  be  raw  and  clammy,  unless  there  is  a  good  heat  at  the  bottom 


PASTRY.  207 

of  the  oven.  If  the  under  crust  in  fruit  and  custard  pies,  is  rubbed  over,  just 
before  filling  the  pies,  with  a  mixture  of  egg,  well  beaten,  it  will  prevent  the  juice 
from  soaking  into  it.  The  white  alone  will  do  if  the  pie  is  very  delicate  in  color. 
A  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar  added  to  the  flour  makes  the  paste  into  a  nice, 
short  crust,  for  fruit  pies.  If  in  fruit  pies  the  sugar  is  not  added  until  after  they 
are  baked,  and  then  the  crust  is  lifted  up  and  it  is  put  in,  less  sugar  will  be 
needed.  (See  what  we  say  about  "Using  Sugar,"  in  our  chapter  on  "Cooked 
Fruit.")  Flour,  corn-starch,  arrowroot  or  cracker-dust  act  simply  by  absorbing 
the  surplus  juice,  and  so  keep  it  from  running  out. 

The  Principles  Involved.— The  principles  involved  in  this  mode  of  baking  flour  are  as  fol- 
lows: In  making  paste  or  pie  crust,  the  paste  of  flour  and  water  is  rolled  out  into  very  thin 
paper-like  layers,  with  fat  between.  In  folding  and  rolling  it  out,  much  cold  air  is  impris- 
oned and  distributed  through  the  mass.  When  baked,  this  air  is  heated  and  so  expands, 
and,  being  confined,  it  "lifts"  the  dough,  or  makes  it  rise  and  become  light.  This  action  is 
purely  mechanical,  without  producing  any  chemical  change  like  that  worked  by  yeast.  It 
is  obvious  that  the  colder  this  imprisoned  air  is  when  the  mass  is  ready  to  bake,  the  more  it 
will  be  contracted,  and,  therefore,  when  heated,  the  more  it  will  expand  and  lift  the  dough ; 
hence  the  repeated  injunctions  to  keep  the  mass  as  cold  as  possible.  Eggs,  when  used,  act 
in  two  ways— they  increase  the  tenacity  of  the  dough  so  that  it  better  retains  the  air,  and 
when  beaten  up  they  carry  a  good  deal  of  air  into  the  dough.  As  soon  as  the  cold  air  ex-  • 
pands  the  mass  should  stiffen,  before  it  has  time  to  fall,  hence  the  importance  of  having  the 
heat  of  the  oven  right.  It  will  be  seen  that  the  lightness  of  the  pastry  will  depend  on  the 
amount  and  coldness  of  the  air  it  contains  before  it  is  put  in  the  oven,  and  the  extent  of  the 
expansion  of  the  air  afterwards;  therefore,  other  things  being  equal,  the  best  pastry  will 
be  that  which  contains  the  greatest  quantity  of  the  coldest  air  before  it  is  baked.  Cooks 
with  a  hot  hand  will  do  well  to  mix  the  paste  with  a  knife  (a  steel  chopping-knife  with  a 
wooden  handle  is  about  the  best  thing)  as  the  warmth  of  the  hand  will  heat  the  paste  in 
working  it.  The  •'flakiness"  of  the  paste  will  depend  on  the  number  of  layers  of  butter  and 
paste  it  contains,  but  its  rising  depends  on  its  air.  We  knew  an  experiment  in  making  some 
pastry  in  which  the  lady  pressed  it  hard  with  her  thumb  in  certain  spots.  When  baked,  it 
was  light  everywhere  except  where  her  thumb  had  pressed,  and  there  it  was  soggy  and 
heavy.  The  pressure  of  her  thumb  had  forced  out  the  air,  so  that  in  those  places  there  was 
nothing  to  expand  and  '  lift"  the  paste.  This  will  show  the  importance  of  the  lightness  and 
deftness  of  touch  in  making  paste,  which  we  have  elsewhere  insisted  on. 

Pastry,  though  generally  liked,  is  not  easily  digested,  and  is  not  suited  to  delicate  stom- 
achs, although  the  strong  may  eat  it.  Flaky  paste,  although  easily  broken  in  pieces,  is  not 
easily  pulverized  or  ground  into  a  pulpy  mass  by  the  teeth,  so  that  comparatively  large- 
sized  flakes  are  commonly  swallowed,  besides  which  the  starchy  matter,  being  envelopedin 
fat,  is  not  readily  reached  by  the  saliva,  and  thus  the  first  step  in  the  conversion  of  flour 
into  sugar  is  prevented,  while  for  the  same  reason  it  is  not  readily  attacked  by  the  gastric 
juices  in  the  stomach.  From  these  causes  proceed  the  evil  results  so  often  experienced 
from  eating  pastry.    When  eaten,  it  should  be  very  thoroughly  and  patiently  masticated. 

Using  Cornmeal. — Cornmeal  mixed  with  flour,  using  %  cornmeal  to  %  flour  or  a  little 
more,  makes  puddings  or  pastry  more  digestible,  because  it  makes  them  less  cohesive — 
that  is,  when  it  is  used  the  products  fall  more  readily  into  minute  particles  so  that  the  saliva 
can  act  on  the  starch,  and  the  gastric  juice  on  the  albumenoids,  much  more  readily.  Corn- 
meal, lacking  gluten,  breaks  up  the  stickiness  of  gluten  flour  as  we  elsewhere  explain. 

Meringue  for  pies,  puddings  or  cake,  is  a  frosting  spread  on  top  of  them.  It 
is  made  by  beating  the  white  of  1  egg  and  1  tablespoon  of  powdered  white  sugar 
to  a  froth,  and  flavoring  it  if  desired.  After  spreading  it  on,  it  must  always  be 
put  in  the  oven  to  brown  and  harden;  let  a  pudding  cool  slightly  before  spreading 
it  on,  or  else  it  will  liquify. 

Doree,  or  gilding,  applied  to  patties,  etc.,  is  an  egg  beaten  up  and  brushed 
over  the  top.     It  gives  them  a  beautiful  golden  shade. 

Paste,  or  Pie  Crust. — For  the  best  puff  paste  the  uniform  rule  is  equal  quanti- 
ties, by  weight,  of  butter  and  flour.  A  good  paste  is  made  with  %Bb.  butter  to 
lib.  flour.    For  home  use,  as  low  as  yi^a.  butter  to  lib.  flour  is  sometimes  used. 

For  the  best  paste,  good  butter  is  the  thing  to  use;  the  next  best  thing,  but- 
ter and  lard  mixed.  For  meat  pies  clarified  drippings  makes  a  good  crust.  A 
light  biscuit  crust  answers  well  for  dumplings,  and  may  also  be  used  for  meat 
pies.    A  paste  made  with  lard  alone,  will  be  tender,  but  not  flaky. 

If  any  baking  powder  is  used  with  paste  at  any  time  add  that  to  the  flour  first 
of  all.  When  baking  powder  is  used  in  pastry,  speedy  work  is  needed  or  the 
effervescence  will  be  over  before  the  work  is  completed,  the  gas  will  escape,  and 
the  paste  will  fall.    For  delicate  puff -paste  or  pie-crust  do  not  use  baking  powder. 

No.  1.  Puff  Paste. — Use  2  cups  flour,  1  solid  cup  butter,  and  1  level  teaspoon 
salt.  Mix  about  %  of  the  butter  in  the  flour,  then  roll  out  and  work  in  the  bal- 
ance as  directed  for  making  pastes,  giving  it  4  to  6  "turns."  This  makes  a  rich 
paste  suitable  for  the  upper  crust  of  pies,  using  a  plainer  one  for  the  under  crust. 


208  PASTRY. 

No.  2.  Light  Paste. — Use  2  cups  flour,  1  solid  cup  butter,  1  level  teaspoon  salt, 
1  egg  (2  are  sometimes  used).  Mix,  roll  out,  and  finish  as  directed  above  for  mak- 
ing paste,  giving  it  at  least  4  "turns"— 6  is  better.  It  makes  a  good  paste  for  fruit 
tarts. 

No.  3.  Pie  Crust. — Use  1  cup  shortening  (lard  and  butter  mixed),  3  cups  flour, 
1  even  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  with  enough  ice -water  to  hold  all  together,  handling  as 
little  as  possible.    This  is  enough  for  3  pies. 

No.  4.  French  Paste. — Use  4  cups  flour,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  level  teaspoon 
salt,  3  whole  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the  fingers  to  a  smooth  paste;  if  too  dry 
to  mold,  add  the  yolk  of  another  egg;  after  it  is  molded,  roll  out  and  cut.  This 
paste  is  more  digestible  than  shortened  pie  crust. 

No.  5.  Pie  Crust. — Use  1  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  lard,  %  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, %  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  the  baking  powder  and  salt  together,  chop  the  lard  in 
the  flour,  and  add  just  enough  cold  water  to  moisten  the  flour.  This  quantity 
will  make  1  pie  with  2  crusts. 

No.  6.  Pie  Crust. — Use  rich  buttermilk,  soda,  and  a  little  salt;  have  it  as  soft 
as  it  will  hold  together  when  mixed;  flour  the  rolling-pin  and  molding-board 
plentifully.  Bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven,  and  do  not  cover  after  taking  out. 
Dyspeptics  can  eat  it. 

PIES. 

Apple  Pie. — Line  a  large  pie-plate  with  a  good  crust,  fill  it  well  with  sliced 
apples;  take  a  small  cup  of  sugar  and  mix  well  with  it  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  a 
little  nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  and  sprinkle  over  the  pie;  put  on  the 
top  crust;  wet  the  edges  of  the  under  crust,  pinch  the  top  one  upon  it  closely,  cut 
an  opening  in  the  middle  of  the  top  crust,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  about  an 
hour;  serve  the  day  of  baking. 

Pot  Apple  Pie. — Put  a  quart  of  water  in  a  kettle  with  2  cups  of  sugar,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  salt  and  6  tart  apples,  pared,  quartered  and  cored;  let  them  cook  in  the 
syrup  until  they  look  like  preserves,  then  make  a  baking-powder  crust,  without 
shortening,  cut  it  in  rounds  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  put  it  in  the  kettle,  add  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  more  water,  if  the  syrup  is  much  reduced,  cover, 
and  cook  20  minutes.    Turn  into  a  deep  dish  to  serve.    This  is  delicious. 

Dried  Apple  Pie. — The  dried  apples  should  be  soaked  over  night,  then  slowly 
stewed,  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them,  for  2  or  3  hours,  especially  those  dried 
in  the  old-fashioned  way,  and  which  are  preferred  by  many  cooks  to  those  that 
are  bleached.  When  soft,  stir  to  a  mash  with  a  spoon,  or  work  the  apple  through 
a  coarse  colander;  season  to  taste  with  sugar  and  spices,  and  bake  in  two  crusts. 
A  few  dried  raspberries,  or  a  little  raspberry  jam  is  a  great  improvement  in  dried 
apple  pies. 

A  good  way  to  treat  dried  apples  is  to  soak  them  over  night,  then  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  stew  soft.  A  little  sour  cider  or  lemon  juice  may  he  added  if  they  are  not  tart 
enough,  and  a  fine  flavor  will  he  imparted  by  adding  a  little  orange  peel  when  they  are 
about  half  stewed;  then  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  season,  and  strain  through  a  colander. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. — Take  2  cups  sweet  milk,  2  cups  apple  sauce,  3  eggs;  flavor 
and  sweeten,  and  bake  with  an  under  crust  only.  This  will  make  2  small  or  1  large 
pie. 

Apple  Custard  No.  2.— Take  %  CUP  melted  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  stewed 
apples,  4  eges  beaten  separately.    Bake  in  pie-plates  in  bottom  crusts  only. 

Apple  Pie  a  la  Mode. — Take  a  good  apple  pie,  warm  it,  and  spread  ice  cream 
over  the  top  1  inch  thick,  and  serve  at  once. 

Banana  Pie.  —Slice  the  bananas  thinly,  put  over  them  the  grated  peel  and 


PASTRY.  209 

juice  of  a  lemon,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  acid  for  an  hour  before  using;  then 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  bake  in  2  crusts. 

Carrot  Pie. — To  lib.  of  carrots,  boiled  and  mashed  through  a  colander,  add  2 
eggs,  and  rich  milk  or  cream  to  make  quite  thin;  flavor  to  taste  with  sugar,  cin- 
namon and  nutmeg;  put  it  into  2  pie-plates  lined  with  rich  paste,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Cherry  Pie. — Pit  the  cherries  and  be  careful  to  reject  all  that  are  wormy;  place 
them  on  a  nice  under  crust,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  mix  a  teaspoon  of  corn-starch 
with  the  sugar,  or  a  tablespoon  if  the  cherries  are  large  and  juicy.  Bake  in  2 
crusts,  or  as  a  tart  with  strips  of  paste  twisted  and  placed  over  it  in  diamond 
shape.    Eat  cold,  with  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 

Dried  Cherry  Pie. — Use  a  pie-plate  that  will  hold  1  pint,  line  with  rich  paste; 
take  1  teacup  of  sugar  and  put  %  °f  it  on  the  under  crust,  roll  2  soda  crackers 
fine,  put  %  on  the  sugar,  and  1  teacup  of  cherries  strewn  evenly  on  the 
cracker,  now  add  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  cover  with  the 
remainder  of  the  sugar  and  cracker;  when  the  top  crust  is  ready  to  put  on,  add  1 
teacup  of  cold  water,  and  bake  %  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Ground  Cherry  Pie. — Line  a  pie-plate  with  a  nice  pie  crust,  and  then  put  in  a 

layer  of  ground  cherries  and  1  cup  of  sugar.    Cover  with  a  nice  crust  and  bake. 

The  ground  cherry  (Physalis  viscosa)  belongs  to  the  order  Solamacce— -the  order  which 
gives  us  the  tomato  and  potato. 

Chocolate  Pie. — Take  2  cups  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  of  corn-starch,  and  2  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate.  Heat  the  milk, 
sugar  and  chocolate  together;  when  hot,  add  the  corn-starch,  mixed  in  a  little  of 
the  cold  milk,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks;  let  all  come  to  a  boil;  line  a  pie-tin  with 
good  pie  crust,  bake,  and  then  pour  in  the  chocolate  cream;  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  2  tablespoons  of  white  sugar;  pour  it  over  the  pie,  and 
set  it  in  the  over  to  brown. 

(Jreen  Cocoanut  Pie. — Open  the  eyes  of  a  cocoanut  with  a  gimlet,  and  pour 
out  the  milk  into  a  cup;  then  break  the  shell,  take  out  the  meat,  and  grate  it 
fine,  take  the  same  weight  of  sugar  and  the  grated  nut  and  stir  together;  beat  4. 
eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  to  a  stiff  foam;  mix  1  cup  of  cream,  and  the 
milk  of  the  cocoanut  with  the  sugar  and  nut;  then  add  the  eggs.  Line  deep  pie- 
tins  with  a  nice  crust,  fill  them  with  the  custard,  and  bake  carefully  %  hour. 

Dried  Cocoanut  Pie. — Put  a  cup  of  cocoanut  to  soak  in  sweet  milk  as  early  in 
the  morning  as  possible;  take  a  teacup  of  the  cocoanut  and  put  it  into  a  coffee- 
cup,  and  fill  up  with  milk.  When  ready  to  bake  take  2  teaspoons  of  flour,  mix 
with  milk,  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  while  warm; 
when  cold,  add  a  little  salt,  2  eggs  (saving  out  the  white  of  one  for  the  top), 
sweeten  to  taste,  add  the  cocoanut,  beating  well,  fill  the  crust  and  bake.  When 
done,  have  the  extra  white  beaten  ready  to  spread  over  the  top;  return  to  the 
oven  and  brown  lightly. 

Corn-starch  Pie. — Scald  1  pint  of  milk  and  stir  in  it  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  and 
the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  wet  2  tablespoons  of  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  stir  it  in  the  milk,  sugar,  and  eggs.  Line  a  pie-plate  with  paste,  bake, 
and  fill  it  with  the  cream.  Beat  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  with  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  spread  over  the  top  of  the  pie,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  This  may  be 
served  with  or  without  cream,  and  will  be  found  very  nice. 

Cream  Pie. — Take  2  cups  thick  cream,  and  1  cup  milk.  Put  the  cream  and 
milk  in  a  tin  pail,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  If  there  is  danger  that 
the  cream  may  curdle,  put  into  it  as  much  soda  as  will  lie  on  the  point  of  a  pen- 
14 


210  PASTRY. 

kriife.  When  the  cream  is  hot,  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  a  tablespoon  of  corn- 
starch, and  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  sugar  all  together,  and  add  to  the  cream. 
When  it  thickens,  let  cool  a  little,  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  extract  of  vanilla.  Pour 
into  a  deep  crust  already  baked.     Cover  with  a  meringue  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Cream  Pie  No.  2. — Bake  a  crust  in  a  large  pie-pan,  lift  it  out  on  a  plate;  for 
filling,  take  1  pint  of  very  rich  milk;  boil  %  of  it;  with  the  remaining  J^  stir  2 
tablespoons  of  corn-starch;  add  to  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the  time;  then 
add  )4,  teacup  of  sugar,  then  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  well-beaten  and  thinned 
with  a  little  milk;  remove  from  the  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  pour  into  the 
crust;  whip  the  whites,  add  %  teacup  sugar,  frost  the  pie,  andjplace  in  the  oven 
to  brown  slightly.    Serve  cold. 

Cream  Pie  No.  3. — Use  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar  with  butter  size  of  an  egg  well 
rubbed  into  it,  %  CUP  milk,  in  which  dissolve  J^  teaspoon  soda,  Y%,  cups  flour, 
and  sift  well  through  it  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar  and  a  little  salt;  bake  in  3  tins. 

Cream  Filling. — Take  1  egg,  %  CUP  sugar,  %  CUP  flour:  wet  the  flour  with  a 
little  milk,  then  stir  it  into  1  cup  boiling  milk,  then  add  the  egg  and  sugar,  and 
a  little  salt;  stir  till  thick  and  smooth.     This  is  cheap,  but  delicious. 

Green  Currant  Pie. — Currants  fully  grown,  and  just  before  turning  red,  make 
very  nice  pies;  mix  a  little  flour  or  corn-starch  with  the  sugar  used  for  seasoning, 
and  bake  with  an  upper  crust.  Green  gooseberry  pies  are  made  in  the  same 
manner,  first  picking  off  the  stems  and  blossom  ends. 

Custard  Pie. — Take  2  teacups  milk,  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  light  brown  sugar, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Heat  the  milk,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Beat  eggs,  sugar,  flour  and  salt  together,  and  add  the  milk.  Line  a  deep  plate 
with  plain  crust,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  there  is 
no  milk  in  the  center.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  as  that  causes  it  to  whey.  When  done, 
grate  nutmeg  on  top. 

Custard  Pie  No.  2. — The  proper  proportions  for  a  rich  custard  pie  are  4  well- 
beaten  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  white  sugar,  and  1  quart  of  milk,  or  milk  and  cream 
mixed.    This  makes  the  filling  fOr  a  deep  pie-plate  with  a  built-up  edge  of  crust. 

Frosted  Custard  Pie. — Use  1  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  white  of  1, 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt.  When  baked,  put  on  the  frosting  made 
of  the  2  remaining  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  2  spoonfuls  powdered 
sugar,  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  and  any  flavoring  you  choose;  set  it  back  in  the  oven 
and  brown. 

Date  Pie. — Prepare  the  dates  as  directed  in  the  introduction  to  "Cake" 
(which  see).  Spread  the  lower  crust  on  the  pan,  put  in  the  prepared  dates,  add  a 
little  cold  water,  sprinkle  with  flour,  dot  with  butter,  put  on  the  upper  crust  and 
bake. 

Elderberry  Pie. — Take  %  elderberries  and  J^  rhubarb,  with  sugar  sufficient 
to  sweeten,  and  bake  with  2  crusts.  This  makes  an  excellent  pie  which  cannot 
be  distinguished  from  one  made  of  raspberries,  and  is  much  cheaper.  This  pro- 
portion of  elderberries  and  rhubarb  makes  a  nice  jam. 

Fried  Pies. — Roll  out  a  good  biscuit  dough,  about  7  or  8  inches  in  diameter, 
put  a  spoonful  of  any  good  sauce  near  the  center,  fold  the  dough  over  it,  press 
the  edges  together,  and  fry  like  doughnuts  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Fruit  Pies,  or  Tarts. — Fruit  pies  of  all  kinds  may  be  made  with  an  under- 
crust  only.  Have  the  fruit  stewed,  sweetened,  and  cold.  Fill  the  crust  with  the 
fruit,  place  a  few  bits  of  butter  over  the  fruit,  and  bake.  When  the  pie  is  cool, 
eat  the  white  of  1  egg  and  1  tablespoon  of  fine  sugar  to  a  froth,  spread  over    the 


PASTRY.  211 

pie,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  If  a  thicker  meringue  is  liked,  make  with  whites 
of  2  eggs,  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  If  the  fruit  is  very  juicy  a  little  pulverized 
cracker  can  be  sprinkled  over  the  pie  before  baking. 

Pies  made  in  this  way  with  one  crust  are  often  called  "tarts." 

Fruit  pies  can  also  be  made  by  putting  the  fruit  in  a  pudding  dish,  sweeten 
and  dust  over  the  fruit  a  little  corn-starch,  flour,  or  cracker-dust;  put  bits  of  but- 
ter over  the  fruit,  and  any  spices  liked;  cover  with  a  crust  a  little  thicker  than 
when  there  is  an  under  crust.  Bake  slowly.  In  this  way  there  is  no  danger  of 
losing  the  juice  of  the  pie. 

Gooseberry  Pie. — Take  ripe  gooseberries,  or  green  ones  when  fully  grown, 
pick  the  stems  and  blow  ends  from  them  and  place  on  the  under  crust.  Mix  a 
tablespoon  of  corn-starch  in  a  small  cup  of  sugar,  for  the  sweetening.  Bake  with 
2  crusts. 

Grape  Pie.— Take  1  coffee-cup  of  grapes,  1  tea-cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  dessertspoon  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoon  of  butter.  This  makes  1  pie.  Bake 
in  2  crusts. 

Hickory-nut  Pie. — Use  1)4  pints  milk,  4  teaspoons  sugar,  2  eggs,  and  1  cup 
chopped  hickory-nut  meats;  bake  with  an  under  crust  only. 

Huckleberry  Pie. — Fill  a  pie-tin,  lined  with  paste,  with  the  berries,  and  add 
sugar  to  sweeten — about  %  cup.  A  pleasant  tartness,  which  will  improve  the 
flavor,  may  be  imparted  by  adding  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  or  by  mixing 
in  some  currants.    Cover  with  a  top  crust  and  bake. 

Jelly  Pie. — Take  1  cup  jelly,  2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  ^  cup  butter.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar,  beat  the  yolks  until  light  and  stir  them  in,  then  add  the  beaten 
whites  and  last  the  jelly.  A  small  piece  of  this  served  on  the  same  plate  with 
apple  or  peach  pie  is  nice. 

Lemon  Pie. — Take  1  large,  juicy  lemon,  grate  the  rind,  and  squeeze  out  all  the 
juice;  put  1  cup  sugar  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  bowl;  stir  a  tablespoon 
corn-starch  into  just  enough  cold  water  to  make  it  smooth,then  stir  this  into  a  cup 
of  boiling  water  in  a  sauce-pan;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  pour  it  on  the  butter 
and  sugar,  stir  in  the  lemon  juice  and  rind,  and  when  a  little  cooler,  stir  in  the 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  pour  this  into  the  crust,  which  should  stand  ready;  bake 
as  you  would  custard,  until  thick,  but  not  until  it  wheys;  beat  the  whites  of  the 
two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  in  a  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  spread  this  on  the 
pie,  put  in  the  oven  and  brown  slightly.  Be  sure  and  put  this  pie  together  in  the 
order  named,  and  you  will  have  no  trouble.  Flavor  the  frosting  with  lemon  ex- 
tract, or  not,  as  desired. 

Lemon  Pie  with  Upper  Crust. — Grate  the  yellow  part  of  2  lemons  into  a  dish, 
peel  off  the  white  and  throw  away;  then  cut  up  the  lemons  with  the  grated  yellow, 
add  5  eggs,  if  they  are  plenty,  if  not,  4  will  do;  add  2  cups  of  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
and  2  tablespoons  of  water.  Line  your  pie-tins  with  a  flaky  crust,  and  divide  the 
filling  for  2  pies;  put  on  an  upper  crust,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  you  will 
find  it  a  delicious  dessert. 

Mince  Pies.— These  generally  come  on  Thanksgiving  day  for  the  season;  they 
are  better  when  a  few  days  old.  It  is  better  to  make  the  mince-meat  a  week  be- 
fore Thanksgiving,  and  the  pies  in  time  to  stand  at  least  3  days.  Boil  6  lbs.  lean 
beef  till  tender,  let  it  stand  over  night  and  then  chop  fine;  chop  1  lb.  beef  suet, 
also  5  lbs.  apples,  and  2  lbs.  seeded  raisins;  slice  thin  %  lb.  citron,  and  mix  these 
ingredients,  with  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  and  1  tablespoon  grated  nutmeg. 

Hints— We  may  offer  a  few  hints  about  mince  pies.  Dried  apples,  soaked  in  water  a  few 
hours,  or  over  night,  or  Irish  potatoes  soaked  in  the  same  way  in  vinegar,  make  a  very  fair 


212  PASTKY. 

substitute  for  fresh  apples  in  mince  pies.    Fresh  apples  can  be  washed,  wiped  dry,  and 

ed 


chopped  fine  without  peeling,  and  some  labor  saved  thereby.  Dried  cherries,  and  other 
fruit,  prepared  with  sugar,  can  be  soaked  10  or  12  hours  in  a  very  little  water,  and  then  both 
water  and  fruit  used  instead  of  raisins.  They  will  be  much  cheaper  and  will  answer  very 
well.    Economical  housewives  will  often  find  hints  like  these  very  serviceable. 

Canned  Mince  Meat. — If  mince  meat  is  canned  hot,  in  the  same  manner  as 

fruit,  put  in  glass  jars;  sealed  tight,  and  kept  in  a  cool,  dark  place,  it  will  keep 

for  months.    A  quart  jar  full  will  hold  enough  for  2  pies,  and  in  this  way  mince 

pies  can  be  had  the  year  round,  as  well  as  in  winter. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

3  bowls  of  meat  chopped.       5  bowls  of  apple.       1  bowl  molasses.        1  bowl  vinegar. 

2  bowls  cider.  1  bowl  suet.  2  bowls  raisins.         1  bowl  citron. 

4  bowls  sugar  (use  5  if  liked    2  tablespoons  cin-     1  tablespoon  cloves.  1  tablespoon  salt, 
very  sweet).  namon.  1  tablespoon  pepper.3  nutmegs. 

3  lemons,  use  juice  and  yellow  rind. 

A  bowl  holding  about  \%  pints  is  used  for  measuring.    Very  good. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

1  cup  rolled  crackers.  1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  molasses.  X  cup  vinegar. 

54  cup  boiled  cider.  1  cup  hot  water.        1  cup  chopped  raisins.  1  teaspoon  nut- 

1  teaspoon  of  cloves.  2  teaspoons  cin'mon.  meg. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE  NO.  2. 

1  cup  dried  English  currants.       1  cup  sour  cream.  1  cup  sugar.  1  egg. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  1  teaspoon  cloves.         1  teaspoon  allspice. 

This  will  make  2  pies.    Bake  in  2  crusts. 

SUMMER  MINCE  PIES. 

1  cup  bread  crumbs.  1  cup  water.  1  cup  raisins. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  molasses.  lA  cup  butter. 

1  teaspoon  cloves  and  cinnamon. 

Cheap  and  very  good. 

Orange  Pie. — Take  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  corn-starch, 
1  teacup  boiling  water,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange.  Mix 
all  together.  Bake  in  an  open  shell.  When  set;  cover  with  a  meringue  made 
with  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Orange  Pie  No.  2. — Use  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  oranges.  Cream  1  ta- 
blespoon butter  with  4  tablespoons  sugarr  into  this  beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  then 
the  whites  of  2,  beaten  stiff,  and  mix  all  with  the  orange  juice  and  rind.  Bake 
with  an  under  crust  only;  make  a  meringue  with  the  reserved  white,  spread  over 
the  pie,  and  lightly  brown  in  the  oven. 

Peach  Pie. — Peel  and  halve  peaches,  and  fill  a  pie-plate  lined  with  good  paste 
with  them;  sprinkle  %  cup  sugar  over  the  fruit,  sift  on  1  tablespoon  flour  (less,  if 
the  fruit  is  not  juicy),  and  a  few  bits  of  butter;  bake  until  the  peaches  are  done. 

Peach  Cobler. — Take  a  good  sized  dish  like  a  pudding-dish;  line  the  sides  with 
good  paste,  and  fill  the  dish  with  good  peaches,  halved  and  pared;  sweeten  accord- 
ing to  taste  and  the  flavor  of  the  peaches.  Place  a  small  cup  in  the  center  to 
keep  the  crust  from  sinking  down;  roll  out  a  crust  considerably  thicker  than  for 
pies,  just  large  enough  to  cover  the  top  of  the  dish,  cut  a  slit  each  way  in  the 
center  and  place  over  the  peaches;  bake  a  crisp  brown,  and  eat  with  cream  and 
sugar,  or  sweet  sauce.    Canned  peaches  may  be  used  if  more  convenient. 

Apple  Cobler  may  be  made  the  same  way. 

Pear  Pie. — The  pears  should  be  ripe  and  mellow  enough  to  eat;  core  and  slice 
them  and  prepare  a  crust  as  for  apple  pies;  put  a  small  amount  of  sugar  on  them, 
and  a  few  bits  of  butter,  but  no  spices.  Bake  until  the  top  crust  is  of  a  nice 
light  brown  color,  and  the  under  crust  will  slip  on  the  plate.  This,  from  the  taste, 
might  be  called  honey  pie. 

Pine- Apple  Pie. — Grate  or  chop  the  "Pine"  (see  Pine-apples  in  chapter  on  Fruits), 
line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  nice  short  paste,  stir  a  tablespoon  of  arrow-root  or  corn- 


PASTRY.  213 

starch  into  )4  CUP  °£  sugar  and  cover  the  pine-apple  in  the  pie-dish;  wet  the  edge 
of  the  under  crust  with  cold  water  or  the  white  of  an  egg,  cover  with  the  top 
crust,  cutting  a  place  in  the  center,  and  bake.  Press  the  edge  of  the  pie  all 
around,  and  bake  until  of  a  delicate  brown  on  top,  and  the  crust  will  slip  on  the 
pie-plate. 

Potato  Pie. — Use  %  CUP  melted  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  1 
quart  potatoes  boiled  and  sifted,  1%  cups  milk,  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  flavor  with 
orange  or  lemon  juice.  Bake  with  an  under  crust  only,  to  a  light  brown.  Eat 
when  a  little  warm. 

Sweet-potato  Pie. — Boil  the  potatoes  until  soft,  mash  them  through  a  colander 
and  for  every  %  pint  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  2  eggs,  with  milk  to  make  a 
quart.  This  fills  a  deep  pie-plate,  with  crust  built  above  the  edge  of  the  plate  as 
for  custard  pie,  and  it  is  done  when  the  center  is  not  milky. 

Prune  Pie. — Stew  prunes  as  for  sauce,  stone  them,  have  ready  a  deep  pie-dish 
lined  with  puff  paste,  fill  this  dish  with  the  stoned  prunes,  sprinkle  over  them  % 
cup  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Bake  it  with  an  upper  crust,  or  cover  it  with 
deep  frosting  made  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  powdered  sugar  to  taste,  and  any 
flavor  desired. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — Pare  and  stew  the  pumpkin  till  it  is  soft  and  dry.  It  must  be 
cooked  slowly  to  the  last,  to  prevent  scorching.  Press  through  a  colander,  and  to  1 
cup  of  the  sifted  pumpkin,  add  1  egg,  3  tablespoons  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  ginger  (or  cinnamon),  andl  pint  of  milk.  This  will  fill 
1  pie  on  a  large  plate.  Bake  like  a  custard,  in  rather  a  slow  oven,  till  a  golden 
brown. 

.  Pumpkin  Pie  No.  2. — For  3  pies  take  1  pint  of  cooked,  strained  pumpkin,  1 
quart  of  nice  rich  milk,  5  eggs,  3  cups  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter  and  2  tablespoons 
of  cinnamon.    (Ginger  may  be  used  instead  of  cinnamon.) 

In  pumpkin  or  squash  pie  1  tablespoon  of  flour  may  be  substituted  as  the  equivalent  of 
legg. 

Raisin  Pie. — Take  the  seeds  from  1  cup  of  raisins,  and  1  cup  of  water  and  boil 
until  the  raisins  are  soft.  When  cold,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon, 
1  cup  of  rolled  crackers,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Bake  in  1  crust,  and  when  cool 
cover  with  a  meringue,  and  slightly  brown  in  the  oven. 

Rhubarb  Pie. — The  giant  variety  with  red  stalks  is  the  best  to  use.  Cut  the 
stalks  in  half  inch  pieces;  after  it  is  cut  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  it  stand 
20  minutes;  pour  that  off  and  repeat  the  process  with  boiling  water;  this  extracts 
much  of  its  oxalic  acid  and  partly  cooks  it  without  breaking  it  in  pieces.  Mix 
the  sugar  with  a  little  corn-starch.  Bake'  in  2  crusts.  The  flavor  is  improved  by 
adding  a  little  orange.  A  little  nutmeg  added  to  rhubarb  pie  will  improve  the 
flavor  and  make  it  taste  much  like  apple. 

Note. — If  a  little  baking  soda  is  mixed  with  the  fruit  (say  %  a  saltspoon  to 
each  pie)  the  alkali  will  neutralize  the  oxalic  acid  of  the  rhubarb  and  much  less 
sugar  will  be  required  for  sweetening — a  fact  worth  knowing. 

Rice  Pie. — To  1  cup  steamed  rice  add  3  cups  cream;  sweeten  to  taste,  and 
flavor  with  cinnamon;  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  froth,  then  beat  all  together 
and  put  in  a  deep  pie-plate,  with  under  crust  only.     Bake  about  %  hour. 

Squash  Pie. — To  1  pint  of  squash,  boiled  and  passed  through  a  sieve  or 
colander,  add  3  eggs,  1  heaping  teaspoon  corn-starch,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  milk 
to  make  it  soft;  sweeten  to  taste.    This  makes  a  large,  thick  pie. 

Strawberry  Pie. — Make  a  rich  butter  crust  to  line  the  pie-plate;  fill  in  the 
berries,  and  for  each  pie  use  for  sweetening  about  %  cup  of  sugar  and  a  table- 


214  WASTRY. 

spoon  of  corn-starch  mixed  with  the  sugar;  bake  with  an  upper  crust,  with  a 
strip  of  cloth  pinned  around  it.    It  is  done  when  it  slips  on  the  plate. 

Tomato  Pie. — Into  a  tin  lined  with  puff  paste,  slice  ripe  tomatoes;  sweeten 
with  sugar;  sprinkle  on  2  teaspoons  flour,  and  add  a  little  lemon  juice  for  flavor; 
put  on  a  top  crust  and  bake. 

Transparent  Pie. — Take  yolks  of  3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  \y2  tablespoons 
of  butter;  beat  well  together,  flavor  to  suit  taste,  and  bake  in  1  crust  only  of  rich 
puff  paste.    Cover  with  a  meringue,  if  desired. 

Vinegar  Pie. — Take  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  3  table- 
spoons of  flour,  2  cups  of  water,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Boil  till  thick,  pour 
into  the  crust  and  bake. 

Washington  Pie.— For  the  crust,  use  2  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  3  cups  sifted 
flour,  4  eggs,  3^  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  for  the  filling,  1  tablespoon  corn-starch, 
boiled  in  3^  pint  milk;  beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  very  light,  and  stir  into  the  milk; 
flavor  with  vanilla,  and,  when  cold,  add  the  other  half  of  the  milk  and  the  white 
of  the  egg,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stirred  in  quickly;  spread  this  between  the 
cakes,  and  ice  it  with  the  white  of  1  egg  and  8  tablespoons  of  finely  sifted  sugar, 
flavored  with  lemon. 

TARTS. 

Tartlets. — Cut  rounds  of  rich  pie-crust,  put  a  strip  of  the  same  around  the 
edges  and  bake;  when  wanted,  a  little  jam,  jelly  or  preserves  can  be  placed  in 
each  one  before  serving. 

Cranberry  Tart. — Stew  a  pint  of  cranberries  with  a  very  little  water,  and 
sweeten  while  hot.  When  cold,  if  not  sweet  enough,  add  more  sugar.  Bake  with 
an  under  crust,  and  when  the  tart  is  cool  cover  with  a  meringue,  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 

Gooseberry  Tart. — Stew  the  gooseberries  until  they  are  soft,  in  a  very  little 
water,  but  be  careful  and  not  break  them;  drain  the  water  from  them,  put  them 
on  a  bottom  crust,  sprinkle  a  layer  of  sugar  over  them,  then  lay  twisted  strips  of 
puff  paste  across  in  diamond  shape,  or  bake  the  crust  separately  in  heart-shapes, 
(see  "Flauns")  and  lay  on  the  tart  after  baking  in  one  crust. 

Lemon  Tarts. — Mix  together  thoroughly  1  pint  sugar,  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  and  2  whole  lemons  grated;  set  it  on  the  stove,  stir  until  it 
boils  up,  and  put  aside  to  cool.  Fill  into  tartlets  at  any  time,  as  it  will  keep  for 
weeks. 

Pine-apple  Tarts. — Cut  as  many  heart-shaped  pieces  of  puff  paste  as  the  pie 
is  to  be  divided  into;  bake  them  in  a  tin  in  the  oven  until  they  are  light  and 
brown;  line  a  pie-plate  with  nice  pie-crust,  or  puff  paste,  and  bake  that.  Take  a 
grated  pine-apple,  stew  until  tender  in  a  very  little  water,  then  add  %  cup  of 
sugar  mixed  with  corn-starch,  and  stir  until  it  is  thick;  then  pour  it  into  the  baked 
bottom  crust  to  cool.  When  cool  and  solid,  brush  over  the  top  with  the  white  of 
an  egg,  lay  a  heart  of  puff  paste  on  each  division  of  the  tart,  and  it  will  adhere  to 
it  when  dry.  Arrow-root  or  cracker -dust  can  be  used  in  fruit  pies  or  tarts  if  pre- 
ferred. 

Strawberry  Tart. — Sprinkle  sugar  over  the  berries  and  let  them  lie  over 
night;  before  using,  drain  off  the  juice,  and  bake  the  fruit  in  one  crust,  with 
strips  of  paste  twisted  and  crossed  over  the  tart  in  diamond  shape,  or  puff  paste 
may  be  baked  in  heart  shape  and  laid  on  the  tart  after  it  is  baked. 

The  juice  drawn  from  the  berries  can  be  boiled  with  added  sugar,  and  the 
syrup  bottled  and  sealed  while  hot,  to  be  used  in  pudding  sauces,  or  diluted  with 
water  for  a  summer  beverage. 


I»ASTRAT.  215 

Canned  strawberries  and  other  small  fruits  can  be  made  into  tarts  in  the  same 
way  by  draining  off  the  juice. 

Flauns  (Parisian  Tarts). — Stew  fresh  fruit  of  any  kind  as  for  a  compote — 
that  is,  it  should  be  somewhat  sweeter  than  for  fruit  sauce,  but  not  like  preserves. 
Make  a  plain  crust  and  line  pie-plates,  cover  them  thickly  with  the  stewed  fruit, 
and  bake  without  an  upper  crust.  Have  some  nice  puff  paste,  cut  it  with  a 
heart-shaped  cookey-cutter,  and  bake  the  hearts  separately  in  a  hot  oven  on  bak- 
ing-tins; when  the  flauns  are  cold,  and  the  paste  cooled  after  baking,  brush  over 
the  tops  of  the  tarts  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg;  then  place  a  heart  of  paste 
over  each  part  of  the  tart  to  be  cut  for  each  person;  the  points  of  the  hearts  are 
to  be  turned  toward  the  center  of  the  tarts. 

SHORTCAKES. 

Make  a  soft  dough  as  for  baking  powder  biscuit  (see  "Baking  Powder  Bis- 
cuit"); take  it  on  the  molding-board  and  divide  the  dough  into  2  parts,  making  it 
up  lightly  in  round  masses;  do  not  mold  or  knead  it,  but  flatten  each  piece  of 
dough  down  into  buttered  jelly-cake  tins,  or  any  round  pans;  bake  quickly  and 
turn  each  one  on  to  a  dinner  plate;  slice  off  the  top  of  each  one,  butter  each 
piece,  spread  with  the  prepared  fruit,  place  one-half  on  the  other,  and  have  fruit 
on  top.  This  makes  2  cakes,  which,  cut  in  quarters,  will  serve  8  persons.  For 
1  cake  use  ~%  cup  milk  for  mixing,  and  other  ingredients  in  proportion. 

The  fruit  used  should  be  prepared  with  sufficient  sugar  and  ready  at  hand,  so 
that  there  will  be  no  delay  when  the  cakes  are  taken  from  the  oven. 

A  little  fine  white  cornmeal  added  to  the  flour  in  making  shortcake  is  thought 
an  improvement  and  much  relished  by  some  people. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — Prepare  the  cake  as  above,  split  it,  butter,  and  spread 
on  the  berries.  If  small  they  can  be  sweetened  and  spread  on  whole;  if  large 
they  can  be  mashed  or  chopped  and  sweetened,  and  then  spread  on.  Chopping  is 
better  than  mashing  the  berries.    Serve  with  cream. 

Apple  Shortcake.— As  soon  as  the  cake  is  baked,  split  it  open,  spread  one  piece 
with  butter,  spread  it  with  well -sweetened  apple  sauce,  pour  on  some  thick  sweet 
cream,  grate  on  nutmeg,  then  lay  on  the  other  piece  and  cover  it  the  same  way. 

Banana  Shortcake. — Slice  the  bananas  and  mix  with  oranges  in  the  propor- 
tion of  3  bananas  to  1  orange;  grate  the  outside  of  the  orange  peel  and  mix  it 
with  1  cup  of  sugar;  spread  the  whole  over  the  buttered  cakes.  It  is  an  im- 
provement to  add  4  tablespoons  of  sweet  cream,  beaten  stiff. 

Berry  Shortcakes. — Any  of  the  small  berries,  like  raspberries,  blackberries,  or 
blueberries,  make  nice  shortcakes.  Sweeten  the  berries  and  make  like  straw- 
berry shortcake.  Black  and  red  raspberries  mixed,  or  raspberries  with  a  few 
ripe  currants  mixed  in,  make  delicious  shortcakes. 

Cranberry  Shortcake. — Stew  the  cranberries,  make  them  quite  sweet,  and 
spread  on  the  prepared  cake. 

Fruit  Shortcakes.  —Any  kind  of  stewed  or  canned  fruit  can  be  used  for  short- 
cake.   Apples,  rhubarb,  or  pears  stewed  and  sweetened  to  taste  are  nice. 

Jam  Shortcake.  -Bake  the  shortcake,  split  it,  and  spread  on  raspberry  or 
other  jam,  as  for  layer  cakes,  only  thicker.    Serve  with  cream. 

Peach  Shortcake. — Slice  and  sweeten  the  peaches,  and  spread  on  the  buttered 
cakes,  as  directed  for  other  shortcakes. 

Apricots,  or  any  other  kind  of  fruit,  may  be  used  the  same  way. 

Orange  Shortcakeo — Make  a  shortcake,  as  before  described;  then  slice  oranges, 
and  put  in  layers  of  these,  with  sugar  and  cream.    Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 


PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS; 

In  making  pudding  all  the  materials — butter,  eggs,  milk,  and  fruit — should  be 
good.  After  cutting  suet  into  slices  and  freeing  it  from  fibrous  matter,  chop  it 
finely,  dredging  it  lightly  with  flour  during  the  process  to  keep  the  pieces  from 
sticking  together.  Suet  or  milk,  which  is  tainted  in  the  least,  will  ruin  a  pud- 
ding. Fruit,  when  added,  should  be  stirred  in  the  last  thing,  the  same  as  with 
cake.  Wet  fruit  will  make  the  pudding  heavy,  so  have  it  dry  before  putting  it  in 
the  pudding.  The  rules  for  preparing  raisins  and  currants  are  the  same  as  for 
"Cake"  (which  see).  See  also  what  we  say  there  about  grating  lemon  or  orange 
peel.  Have  all  spices  and  almonds,  which  are  used,  finely  powdered.  Break  eggs 
separately,  for  1  bad  one  will  spoil  the  others;  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately. 
It  is  a  good  plan  to  strain  the  yolks;  add  the  whites  last.  A  pinch  of  salt  is  an 
improvement  to  all  puddings,  but  add  it  sparingly,  as  its  flavor  should  not  be  de- 
tected. Do  not  add  eggs  to  boiled  milk  till  it  cools  a  little,  or  they  will  coagulate 
into  little  lumps.  Sugar  should  be  used  sparingly,  as  an  excess  of  sugar  is  the 
cause  of  many  a  broken  pudding.  The  ingredients  for  pudding  are  generally 
better  for  being  mixed  some  time  before  they  are  wanted.  A  batter  pudding  is 
better  for  standing  a  while.  When  you  make  a  batter  pudding,  first  mix  the  flour 
well  with  milk,  and  stir  in  the  other  ingredients  by  degrees;  it  will  then  be  smooth 
and  quite  free  from  lumps.  Another  good  way  is  to  strain  it  through  a  coarse 
hair  sieve. 

To  boil  puddings,  the  correct  method  is  to  put  them  at  first  into  boiling  water, 
and  it  should  be  kept  boiling  until  they  are  done.  Never  keep  them  simmer- 
ing in  moderately  hot  water,  as  active  boiling  is  what  they  need.  The  prin- 
ciple is  the  same  as  described  for  cooking  vegetables.  Always  beat  up  the  pud- 
ding just  before  pouring  it  into  the  cloth.  Keep  the  pudding  covered  with  water, 
and  if  it  boils  away  pour  in  more  water  which  is  boiling.  Move  puddings  occa- 
sionally, to  keep  them  from  sticking  to  the  kettle.  An  inverted  plate  or  saucer  in 
the  bottom  of  the  kettle  will  save  the  pudding  from  burning  or  sticking  to  the 
bottom.  When  the  pudding  is  done,  lift  it  out  and  dip  it  at  once  in  cold  water, 
let  it  stand  to  cool  a  minute,  and  the  cloth  will  not  adhere  to  it,  nor  will  it  break; 
untie  the  cloth  and  turn  it  away  from  the  pudding,  place  a  hot  dish  on  top  of  it, 
and  turn  the  pudding  into  it.  If  boiled  in  molds,  treat  the  same  way.  Serve 
immediately,  for  if  a  pudding  is  allowed  to  stand,  it  will  darken,  fall,  and  be 
ruined.  When  preferred,  the  pudding  may  be  boiled  in  a  basin,  but  first  grease 
the  basin  or  mold  well,  and  after  putting  in  the  pudding,  tie  a  floured  cloth 
over  it. 

The  Cloth  Used. — A  thick  cloth  is  best  for  boiling  large  puddings.  Canton 
flannel,  with  the  nap  side  out,  is  excellent,  although  some  cooks  use  muslin.  Dip 
the  cloth  into  boiling  water  before  putting  in  the  pudding,  then  wring  it,  spread 
it  over  a  basin,  and  dredge  it  evenly  and  thickly  with  flour;  then  put  in  the  pud- 
ding, gather  up  the  corners  of  the  cloth,  and  tie  them.  If  it  is  a  bread  pudding, 
tie  it  loose;  if  a  batter  pudding,  tie  it  nearly  close;  fruit  puddings  should  be  tied 
quite  close.  As  soon  as  possible  after  it  is  taken  off  of  the  pudding  the  cloth  should 
be  soaked  in  water,  and  then  well  washed,  without  soap  unless  it  is  very  greasy. 
Then  dry  it  well,  fold  it  up,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  It  is  perhaps  needless  to 
state  that  there  should  be  no  holes  in  the  cloth. 

Steaming. — As  a  rule,  puddings  will  be  lighter  and  better  if  they  are  steamed 
rather  than  baked  or  boiled.  Put  the  steamer  over  cold  water,  and  during  the 
whole  process  of  steaming  do  not  remove  the  cover.  A  thick  cloth  tied  over  the 
dish  in  which  they  are  steamed  will  make  the  pudding  lighter  and  absorb  much 
of  the  moisture. 

Baking. — When  baked  puddings  are  sufficiently  solid,  turn  them  out  of  the 
dish  they  were  baked  in,  bottom  uppermost,  and  strew  finely  sifted  sugar  over — 
them.    If  the  outside  of  baked  puddings  are  sufficiently  brown,  and  yet  they  are 
not  baked  through,  put  a  piece  of  white  paper  over  them  which  will  prevent  the 
top  from  burning  before  they  are  thoroughly  cooked.    Puddings  made  of  custard 

(316) 


PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS.  217 

require  more  care  in  baking  than  others,  and  should  never  remain  in  the  oven  until 
they  become  watery;  they  will  be  thicker  and  richer  if  made  with  1  egg  and  baked 
slowly,  than  if  made  with  3  eggs  and  baked  quickly.  Any  pudding  in  which  milk 
and  eggs  are  used,  will  separate  if  the  oven  is  too  hot,  and  it  should  therefore  be 
cooked  at  a  low  temperature. 

Dumplings. — In  putting  dumplings  of  any  kind  into  water  to  boil,  put  them  in 
one  at  a  time,  as  they  will  mix  or  stick  if  put  in  together. 

Puddings  are  less  expensive  than  pies,  and  they  are  also  much-more  whole- 
some. 

To  Cream  Butter. — In  making  cake  and  the  better  class  of  puddings  it  is  often 
desirable  to  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  before  using  it.  Put  the  butter  in  an 
earthenware  vessel  (but  do  not  use  tin  or  iron,  as  they  will  discolor  it),  and  beat 
it  with  a  spoon  or  fork — a  wooden  or  silver  fork  or  spoon  is  best.  After  beating 
it  about,  the  butter  gradually  comes  back  into  a  creamy  state,  but  thicker  than 
cream  itself,  and  is  then  "creamed  butter."  If  cold,  warm  the  vessel  by  pouring 
hot  water  in  it;  then  wipe  it  dry  before  using  it. 

ALMOND  PUDDING. 

1  pint  of  milk.  3  eggs.  3  tablespoons  of  flour. 

2  ounces  of  almonds.  1  teaspoon  essence  lemon.  1  ounce  of  butter. 
4  ounces  of  sugar. 

Boil  the  milk  and  let  it  cool;  beat  the  eggs  lightly  with  the  flour;  blanch  the 
almonds,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste  with  the  essence  of  lemon,  or  use 
peach  water;  melt  the  butter  in  the  milk,  add  the  sugar  pounded,  and  beat  all  well 
together.    Bake  in  buttered  cups,  or  small  molds. 

Apple  Pudding. — Use  1)4  lbs.  peeled  apples;  make  it  into  apple  sauce,  sweeten 
and  spice  to  taste,  add  4  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  %  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  flour  to 
stiffen;  bake  in  a  quick  oven.    Serve  with  sauce,  or  sugar  and  cream. 

APPLE  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

1  cup  Indian  meal.  2  quarts  milk.  3  tablespoons  butter. 

1  cup  molasses.  2  teaspoons  salt.  1  quart  apples,  pared  and  quartered 

A  little  ginger  and  nutmeg.  (not  too  sour). 

Scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  gradually  on  the  meal;    put  this  in  the  double 

boiler  and  cook  %  hour,  stirring  often.  Butter  a  deep  pudding  dish,  add  molasses, 

butter,  spices  and  apples  to  this  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  3  hours.    If 

any  remains,  it  may  be  eaten  cold  with  cream  or  milk  next  day. 

BERRY  PUDDING. 

1  cup  milk.  1  egg.  2  tablespoons  baking  powder. 

3  cups  flour.  1  tablespoon  melted  butter.     llA  cups  berries  or  fruit  of  any  kind. 

Steam  2  hours. 

No.  2. — Mix  1  cup  sugar  (%  cup  will  do  very  well),  2  tablespoons  butter;  add  2 
cups  flour  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  into  it,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  milk 
and  1  egg;  cover  a  buttered  pudding  dish  thick  with  berries,  pour  this  batter 
over  them,  and  bake  about  20  minutes.  This  is  delicious  with  fresh  blackberries, 
but  is  nearly  as  good  with  apples  peeled  and  sliced,  or  with  canned  huckleberries 
or  blackberries.  For  sauce,  use  3  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  egg, 
and  flavoring. 

BIRD'S  NEST  PUDDING. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  1  egg.  A  little  salt. 

1  pint  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Pare  4  or  5  apples,  take  out  the  cores,  place  in  a  buttered  dish  and  pour  over 
the  batter.    Bake  about  %,  hour.    Use  hard  sauce  or  cream. 

Black  Pudding. — Sift  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  into  1  cup  flour,  add  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  a  pinch  of  salt;  wet  with  milk  till 
smooth,  and  add  1  cup  molasses,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg;  bake  in  a  greased 
pudding  dish  %.  hour.    Use  foam  sauce  or  hard  sauce. 


218  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

yA  cup  white  sugar.  1  cup  of  raisins  (if  desired).      1  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter. 

2  eggs  (beaten  thoroughly).  1  pint  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  1  quart  of  sweet  milk. 

Salt  to  suit  the  taste.    Stir  well  together  and  bake. 

BREAD  PUDDING  NO.  %. 

1  quart  of  milk.  3  eggs.  Wz  teaspoons  vanilla  extract. 

1  pint  bread  crumbs.  1  small  cup  sugar.  A  small  piece  of  butter. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  stir  them  with  the  rest  of  the  ingredients,  reserv- 
ing the  whites  for  the  top.  Bake  the  pudding  25  minutes,  then  take  it  from  the 
oven,  spread  a  layer  of  currant  jelly  over  the  top;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  with  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  spread  this  on  top  of  the  jelly,  return  to  the 
oven  to  brown  on  top.  Raspberry  jam  is  equally  as  good  as  jelly  for  this  pudding. 
Serve  with  cream.  If  you  do  not  happen  to  have  that,  a  hot  sauce  is  very  good. 
Almost  any  kind  of  fruit,  stirred  in  a  common  bread  pudding,  makes  a  very  nice 
dessert  of  it.    Cranberry  sauce  or  jelly  is  very  good  in  bread  pudding. 

Black  Bread  Pudding. — Cut  stale  bread  in  even  slices,  pare  off  the  crust,  and 
butter  each  slice;  put  the  largest  slice  on  a  platter,  cover  it  with  canned  huckle- 
berries or  blackberries  which  are  heated  scalding  hot;  put  on  another  slice,  cover 
it  with  the  berries,  and  so  on  till  all  is  used,  and  you  have  a  neat  mound  of  pud. 
ding.  This  may  be  covered  and  kept  hot  in  the  warming  closet  until  serving 
time,  and  eaten  with  hard  sauce,  or  made  early  in  the  day  and  served  cold  with 
sugar  and  cream— it  is  delicious  either  way.   If  the  berries  are  very  sweet  adding 

2  or  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar  is  an  improvement. 

STEAMED  BREAD  PUDDING. 

1  pint  bread  crumbs.  1  cup  flour.  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  cup  raisins.  1  egg. 

1  cup  hot  water  poured  on  the  bread.  1  teaspoon  soda.  Spices  to  taste. 

Steam  2  hours.    Good  and  inexpensive. 

Bread  Crumb  Pudding. — Take  1  teacup  of  dried  bread  crumbs  (see  Dried 
Bread  Crumbs  elsewhere  given),  soak  with  boiling  water,  add  2  cups  milk, 2 eggs, 
a  full  3^  cup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  flavoring,  and  bake.  It  will  be 
an  improvement  to  cover  with  a  meringue  and  brown  in  the  oven  when  cool;  or 
spread  a  little  jam  on  top. 

Cake  Pudding. — Soak  slices  of  stale  cake  in  lemonade  and  lay  them  in  a  pud- 
ding dish.  Pour  over  it  a  soft  custard,  and  cover  it  with  a  meringue;  then  place 
it  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

No.  2. — Cut  thin  slices  of  stale  cake  of  any  kind,  enough  to  fill  a  pudding  dish 
%  full;  then  make  plain  "sweet  sauce"  enough  to  cover  all,  and  let  it  stand  in  the 
oven  until  time  to  serve.  A  little  lemon,  or  other  fruit  juice,  can  be  added  to  the 
sweet  sauce  if  liked. 

No.  3. — Put  any  kind  of  stale  cake  in  a  steamer  %  hour  before  dinner,  and 
steam  it  through;  prepare  a  sauce  by  taking  %  cup  sugar,  1  even  tablespoon  of 
flour,  a  little  water  to  moisten;  stir  well  together,  pour  in  \%  cups  boiling  water, 
grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  and  boil  10  minutes;  add  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  and 
serve  with  the  cake  cut  up  in  thick  slices. 

Canned  Pudding. — Soak  and  wash  1  pint  of  tapioca,  add  3  pints  of  warm 
water,  and  let  it  stand  3  hours  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  then  place  in  glass 
fruit  jars  a  layer  of  sliced  peaches,  with  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  them,  then  a 
layer  of  tapioca,  adding  alternate  layers  until  the  cans  are  filled;  then  set  them 
in  a  kettle  in  %  their  depth  of  water,  let  the  water  come  to  boiling  and  keep  the 
jars  in  %  hour;  then  take  them  out  and  seal  them.  A  thickly  folded  cloth  must 
be  under  the  jars  to  keep  them  from  touching  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Tapioca 


PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS.  219 

and  apples  can  be  canned  in  the  same  way.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  with 
sweetened  cream,  or  any  liquid  sauce.  This  canned  pudding  is  convenient  in  case 
you  need  a  dessert  in  a  hurry. 

Charlotte  Pudding1. — This  favorite  dessert  is  made  by  buttering  a  mold,  then 
line  it  with  thin  slices  of  bread  well  buttered,  with  a  well-buttered  slice  on  the 
bottom  of  the  mold;  fill  with  nice  baking  apples  pared,  quartered  and  cored, 
seasoned  with  sugar  and  spices  to  taste;  cover  it  with  a  thin  slice  of  bread  well 
buttered;  put  a  plate  or  tin  cover  over  that,  and  bake  2  hours.  Sponge  cake  may 
be  substituted  for  bread,  or  slices  of  any  plain  cake,  if  it  is  preferred. 

Cherry  Pudding. — Put  pitted  and  sweetened  cherries  an  inch  deep  or  so,  in 
the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish.  Take  1  cup  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream  with  2  table- 
spoons butter,  add  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
mix  well,  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon,  pour  over  the  cherries,  and  bake.  Then 
turn  from  the  dish,  having  the  fruit  on  top;  and  serve  with  warm  sweet  sauce. 

Chocolate  Pudding. — Whip  to  a  cream  1  cup  sugar  and  %  cup  butter;  add  % 
pint  of  milk,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten;  add  1  pint  of  flour  and  1  oz.  of 
chocolate  or  cocoa  which  has  been  melted  over  hot  water  and  beat  until  smooth; 
then  add  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder; 
put  it  in  cups,  and  steam  %  hour. 

CHRISTMAS  PUDDING. 

1  cup  finely  chopped  suet.  1  cup  sugar.  1  even  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  seeded  raisins.  1  cup  Zante  currants.        Cinnamon  and  allspice  to  season. 

1  egg.  1  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  flour.  1  even  teaspoon  salt. 

Prepare  the  day  before  the  pudding  is  cooked.  Wash  the  currants  and  pick 
over  carefully;  then  put  them  wet  into  a  cooking  bowl  to  stand  over  night,  and 
all  the  other  ingredients  excepting  the  flour  and  soda;  beat  well.  The  next 
morning  add  the  flour  and  soda,  and  beat,  and  stir  together  again;  put  in  the 
pudding  basin  or  mold,  and  steam  4  hours.  The  water  must  boil  in  the  steamer- 
kettle,  and  be  kept  boiling  until  the  pudding  is  taken  up.  Hot  water  from  the 
tea-kettle  can  be  added  as  needed. 

Cocoanut  Rice  Pudding. — Soak  1  cup  of  rice  in  water  3  hours,  then  add  1  pint 
of  milk  and  cook  gently  until  it  is  tender;  beat  5  eggs  and  1  cup  of  white  sugar 
together,  add  another  pint  of  milk,  a  little  salt  and  the  rice,  mix  well,  flavor  with 
lemon  and  pour  into  a  buttered  bowl  and  boil  steadily  for  1  hour;  dip  the  bowl 
into  cold  water  after  it  is  cooked,  and  let  it  stand  about  10  minutes,  turn  out  into 
a  flat  dish  and  strew  all  over  with  desiccated  cocoanut.  Serve  with  a  custard 
sauce,  flavored. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

12  ears  of  corn.  1  quart  of  milk.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

4  eggs,  thoroughly  beaten.  3  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

Scald  the  corn,  then  grate  it,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  pour  into  a  pud- 
ding dish.    Bake  slowly. 

CORN-STARCH  PUDDING. 

1  quart  of  milk— less  1  cup.  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  %  cup  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  corn-starch— in  a  little  milk.       2  eggs,  beaten  light. 

Let  the  milk  and  sugar  boil  before  putting  in  the  eggs,  starch  or  vanilla.  Save 
out  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  frosting,  if  you  like. 

Corn-starch,  as  its  name  indicates,  is  the  starch  extracted  from  Indian  corn.  It  is  light 
and  easily  digested  but  is  not  very  nutritious,  as  it  is  about  84$  starch,  and  15%  water. 

Note.— It  should  be  understood  that  starch  to  be  digestible  should  be  cooked  about  20 
minutes,  and  that  it  is  not  cooked  as  soon  as  swollen,  as  many  cooks  imagine.  There  is  dan- 
ger of  cooking  corn-starch  too  short  a  time,  and  so  leaving  it  indigestible,  and  with  a  raw 
taste. 


220  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

1  cup  of  suet.  2  cups  of  flour.  Bake  lA  hour.    Eat  with  hot  sauce. 

1  egg.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  V%  tablespoon  soda. 

BAKED  COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

1  pint  of  flour.  1  cup  of  milk.  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

1  small  cup  of  sugar.  1  tablespoon  of  butter. 

STEAMED  COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter.  1  cup  milk.  Steam  X  hour. 

1  teacup  sugar  beaten  together.  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

1  egg.  2  cups  of  flour. 

Cracker  Pudding. — Put  a  layer  of  split  crackers  in  a  deep  pudding  dish,  put 
on  raisins,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  a  little  salt,  and  fill  it  ~%  full  with  alternate 
layers  in  this  way,  packing  it  down  tightly;  then  put  a  plate  over  it,  fill  the  dish 
with  milk,  and  let  it  stand  several  hours  to  soak.  Then  beat  2  eggs  with  1  cup 
sugar,  pour  off  any  milk  not  absorbed,  and  mix  it  with  the  eggs,  adding  more 
milk  if  needed;  pour  this  over  the  pudding,  leaving  on  the  plate  to  keep  it  in  shape, 
and  bake  about  2  hours.  It  should  retain  its  shape  when  turned  out,  if  right. 
Good  either  hot  with  sauce,  or  cold. 

Delmonico  Pudding. — Mix  3  tablespoons  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  milk, 
stir  it  into  4  cups  milk,  and  add  6  tablespoons  sugar  and  5  yolks  of  eggs  beaten 
together;  boil  4  or  5  minutes,  pour  it  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  30  minutes. 
Beat  6  tablespoons  sugar  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  together,  spread  it  on  top  of 
the  pudding,  and  brown  it  delicately  in  the  oven. 

ECONOMICAL  PUDDING. 

154  pints  stewed  apples.         M  pound  butter.  Grated  lemon  peel  and  sugar  to  taste. 

1  cup  cream.  4  eggs. 

Put  in  the  butter  while  the  apples  are  hot;  the  remainder  when  cool.  Dried 
apples  will  do.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  a  deep  pie-tin,  covered  with  crust. 

ENGLISH  PUDDING. 

1  cup  suet.  354  cups  flour.  Add  salt. 

1  cup  raisins,  chopped.  1  cup  of  milk  or  cider.  Steam  3  hours. 

1  cup  molasses.  Yt  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  the  molasses. 

Farina  Pudding. — Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and  water,  half  and  half;  add  a  level 
teaspoon  of  salt,  then  slowly  sprinkle  in  farina  until  it  is  a  thin  mush;  turn  into 
small  cups  or  molds  to  harden.  Serve  cold,  one  to  each  person,  with  sugar  and 
cream,  or  any  favorite  liquid  pudding  sauce.  This  is  a  good  dessert  for  hot  weather, 
and  particularly  relished  by  invalids  and  children.  This  pudding  can  be  mixed 
with  milk,  sugar  and  eggs,  and  baked  like  a  rice  pudding. 

Gooseberry  Pudding. — Cook  the  gooseberries  until  soft,  in  as  little  water  as 
possible,  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and  add  2  tablespoons  butter,  3  eggs  well 
beaten,  1  teacup  bread  crumbs,  %  teacup  sugar;  put  a  border  of  puff  paste 
around  the  edge  of  a  pudding  dish,  beat  the  mixture  well,  or  until  very  light,  put 
it  in  the  dish,  and  bake  40  minutes.  As  soon  as  it  is  done  strew  sugar  over  it 
thickly,  and  serve  at  once. 

Gold  Pudding. — To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  %  cup  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  fairly  stiff 
batter,  a  little  salt,  and  1  cup  seeded  raisins;  beat  all  well  together,  and  steam  1 
hour.  Serve  with  our  white  pudding  sauce.  The  pudding  will  be  a  golden 
yellow,  and  with  the  white  sauce  will  please  both  eye  and  palate. 

Graham  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  1  cup  molasses,  1 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1  scant  cup  sweet  milk,  %  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups 
graham  flour;  steam  3  hours.    Fine. 

Steamed  Graham  Pudding.— Beat  together  3  eggs  and  3  tablespoons  sugar,  add 


PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS.  221 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  3^  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda 
sifted  into  3  cups  graham  flour;  add  dried  cherries,  or  pour  over  sliced  apples,  if 
fruit  is  desired,  and  steam.  It  is  nice  with  or  without  fruit.  Eat  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

Hanover  Pudding. — Sift  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  into  Z%  cups  flour,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  some  spices  (say  cinnamon  and  nutmeg),  1  cup  suet  or  %  cup 
butter,  %  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  1  cup  stoned  raisins;  boil  2%  to  3  hours. 
Eat  with  hard  sauce,  or  any  liquid  sauce  preferred. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. — Stir  gradually  1  even  cup  cornmeal  in  1  quart  of 
boiling  milk,  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  lift  from  the  stove,  and  add  1  teaspoon  butter 
and  a  little  salt;  stir  in  %  pint  molasses,  and  %  pin^  co^  milk  last;  put  into  a 
pudding  dish,  well  buttered,  and  bake  3  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

No.  2. — In  1  quart  boiling  milk,  stir  1%  cups  cornmeal,  and  1  cup  molasses; 
let  it  cool  and  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teacup  suet,  and  stir  in  a  little  allspice;  pour 
in  2  cups  cold  milk,  and  bake. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. — Warm  2  cups  molasses  and  2  cups  milk,  stir  well  to- 
gether; beat  4  eggs  and  stir  with  the  molasses  and  milk;  add  1  lb.  beef  suet 
chopped  fine,  and  Indian  meal  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  add  1  teaspoon  each 
of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel;  stir  together  well,  tie  in 
the  floured  bag,  leaving  room  to  swell,  and  boil  3  hours.  Serve  hot  with  a  good 
sauce. 

No.  2. — Use  1  cup  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  (or  4  tablespoons  sour  cream),  3  eggs,  1 
small  pinch  of  soda,  and  enough  cornmeal  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Mix  in  the 
order  given,  and  pour  into  a  baking-powder  can,  or  any  other  covered  can  of  con- 
venient size;  set  in  a  kettle  containing  enough  boiling  water  to  come  up  nearly 
to  the  top  of  the  can,  place  a  weight  on  top  of  the  can  to  keep  it  upright,  and  boil 
about  2  hours.   Eat  with  the  maple  sugar  sauce  given  among  our  pudding  sauces. 

Lemon  Pudding. — Use  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out;  roll  in  3  sheets.  Take  juice  of  1 
lemon,  1  cup  pulverized  sugar,  and  spread  between  the  layers  like  jelly.  Put  it 
in  a  tin  and  steam  3  hours.    Serve  with  our  Lemon  Sauce  No.  1. 

!LOWEIX  PUDDING. 

1  cup  milk.  1  cup  raisins.  54  cup  molasses.  lA  teacup  brown  sugar. 

1  teacup  suet.        1  teaspoon  soda.  1  teaspoon  salt.         Flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Steam  3  hours.    Serve  with  any  good  sauce. 

Minute  Pudding. — Use  1  quart  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  1  pint  sifted  flour,  1  level  tea- 
spoon of  salt;  beat  the  eggs  well,  add  the  flour,  and  milk  enough  to  make  it 
smooth.  Butter  the  kettle,  and  put  in  the  remainder  of  the  milk  with  the  salt; 
when  it  boils,  put  in  the  eggs  and  flour,  and  cook  until  stiff.  Serve  hot  with  any 
simple  sauce. 

No.  2. — Use  1  cup  of  water,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  salt  to  taste;  let  it  boil  and  stir 
in  flour  until  it  is  a  stiff  batter;  the  flour  must  be  stirred  in  very  gradually,  to 
avoid  large  lumps.    Serve  immediately  with  cream  and  maple  sugar. 

Graham  Flour  Minute  Pudding. — Take  %  water  and  %  milk,  and  when  it  boils 
stir  in  graham  flour  the  same  as  if  water  alone  was  used,  except  that  it  should  be 
made  a  little  thicker.  Cook  about  10  minutes.  Eat  with  sugar  and  cream.  If 
you  do  not  happen  to  have  cream,  jelly  makes  a  nice  sauce.  Children  are  very 
fond  of  this  simple  pudding. 

Orange  Pudding. —Boil  2  cups  milk;  beat  2  eggs  light,  add  3  tablespoons  sugar, 
grate  in  the  yellow  of  1  orange,  pour  in  the  milk  hot,  and  beat  2  minutes;  set  the 


222  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

pan  in  a  larger  pan,  filled  with  water,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  set;  sprinkle 
with  sifted  sugar,  brown  on  top  with  a  hot  shovel,  and  cool.    Eat  with  cream. 

No.  2.— Pare  and  slice  6  oranges,  beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  1  small  cup  of 
sugar,  and  pour  over  the  oranges;  then  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  flavor  with 
vanilla,  and  pour  over  all;  do  not  cook,  but  keep  on  ice  till  served. 

Oxford  Pudding. — Take  1  cup  rice,  1  tablespoon  oatmeal,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  salt  (level),  1  cup  milk,  6  cups  water;  stir  together,  and  bake  2  hours 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Peach  Pudding. — Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  peaches,  and  wet  ceraline 
with  it,  but  do  not  make  it  too  thick  to  pour,  add  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  %  cup 
sugar,  and  a  little  salt;  pour  this  mixture  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  drop  the 
reserved  peaches  into  the  center  of  the  mixture,  and  bake  15  to  25  minutes.  Good 
hot  or  cold,  and  without  sauce. 

Steamed  Peach  Pudding. — Fill  a  pudding  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread 
crumbs  sprinkled  with  butter,  and  sweetened,  sliced  peaches,  having  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs  on  top;  pour  over  this  a  custard  made  of  2  cups  milk,  the  yolks  of 

2  eggs,  and  2  tablespoons  sugar;  steam  it,  and  serve  with  Lombard  Sauce. 

PLAIN  PLUM  PUDDING. 

2  cups  bread  crumbs.  2  cups  seeded  raisins.  2  cups  milk  or  -water. 

1  teaspoon  of  spices.  2  cups  chopped  suet.  2  cups  -washed  currants. 

1  teaspoon  of  salt.  1  cup  of  flour.  3  cups  sugar. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  if  it  is  too  thick,  add  more  water, 
and  if  too  thin,  add  more  flour;  then  stir  in  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  beat  it 
well,  tie  loosely  in  a  pudding-cloth,  so  that  it  will  have  room  to  swell,  and  boil  4 
hours.  It  can  be  placed  in  a  mold  or  tin  basin,  with  a  plate  to  cover  it,  and 
steamed  for  the  same  length  of  time,  if  more  convenient.  Serve  with  lemon  pud- 
ding sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

3  eggs.  1  cup  of  raisins.  1  cup  currants. 

lA  cup  citron.  M  cup  candied  lemon.  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  cups  flour.  1  cup  molasses.  1  cup  brown  sugar. 

Vs  teaspoon  spices,  nut-  2  even  teaspoons  of  cream  of  i  teaspoon  of  soda. 

meg.  tartar. 

1  cup  chopped  suet,salt.  Steam  4  hours. 

Potato  Pudding. — Take  1  lb.  of  boiled  potatoes  mashed  with  sweet  milk;  add 
%  lb.  white  sugar,  6  eggs,  and  1  grated  lemon;  bake  40  minutes. 

Puff  Pudding. — Scald  1  quart  sweet  milk,  stir  in  18  tablespoons  of  flour;  when 
cool,  stir  in  6  well-beaten  eggs;  bake  20  minutes.     Serve  with  butter  and  sugar. 

Steamed  Puff  Pudding. — Make  a  batter  by  sifting  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
and  a  little  salt  into  2  cups  flour,  and  add  milk  enough  to  make  it  quite  soft;  but- 
ter coffee-cups  and  put  them  in  the  steamer;  drop  in  first  a  spoonful  of  batter,  then 
1  of  berries,  steamed  apples,  or  any  fruit  or  sauce  you  happen  to  have;  then  put 
in  batter  to  fill  the  cup,  and  steam  25  minutes.  Serve  with  our  berry  pudding- 
sauce,  using  the  same  fruit  for  the  sauce  that  you  have  in  the  pudding. 

Queen  Pudding. — Use  1  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  of  milk,  1  teacup  white 
sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Beat  yolks,  sugar  and  lemon  to- 
gether, and  stir  in  the  crumbs;  bake  until  it  is  of  a  nice  brown  color;  when  done, 
beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  4  tablespoons  of  sugar;  spread  fruit 
jelly  or  jam  over  the  pudding,  then  cover  it  with  the  frosting  and  set  it, in  the 
oven  to  brown  slightly.  To  be  served  cold.  No  one  ever  tires  of  this  delicious, 
old-fashioned  dessert. 

Raspberry  Pudding.— Rub  together  1%  cups  sugar,  and  J^  cup  butter;  add  J£ 
cup  milk,  and  2  eggs;  stir  together  well,  and  add  2  cups  flour  with  %  teaspoon  of 


PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS.  223 

baking  powder  sifted  in,  and,  lastly,  add  2  cups  fresh  raspberries.     Steam  3  hours. 

RATAFIA  PUDDING. 

1  quart  of  milk.  2  teaspoons  of  corn-starch.  H  pound  of  ratafias. 

2  eggs.  4  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Flavor -with  cinnamon. 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  beat  the  sugar,  eggs,  and  corn-starch  to- 
gether, and  stir  into  the  scalding  milk,  when  it  thickens,  pour  it  into  a  well- 
buttered  pudding-dish;  cover  the  top  of  the  pudding  with  the  ratafias— right  side 
upwards — and  bake  %  hour.  (For  directions  for  making  ratafias,  see  "Candy.") 
Rhubarb  Pudding. — Butter  a  basin  which  will  hold  Y%  pints,  and  line  it  with 
good  suet  crust  rolled  out  to  the  thickness  of  %  inch.  Fill  it  with  rhubarb  which 
has  been  stewed  for  }■£  hour,  with  a  little  moist  sugar  and  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 
Cover  the  pudding  with  pastry,  rolled  out  to  the  same  thickness  as  the  sides, 
pinch  the  edges  securely,  tie  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  2  hours,  or  until  done;  then  turn 
out  carefully,  and  cut  a  small  opening  in  the  top  for  the  escape  of  the  steam. 
Serve  with  sweetened  melted  butter,  or  cream  and  sifted  sugar. 

Rice  Pudding. — Use  1  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  washed  rice,  %  cup  raisins,  %  CUP 
sugar,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg.  Mix  and  put  to  bake;  stir  4  times  to  keep  rice 
and  raisins  mixed;  let  it  bake  until  the  rice  is  done.  Serve  cold  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

A  Hint.— It  is  not  generally  known  that  the  cheap,  broken  rice  is  better  for  puddings 
than  the  more  expensive  article.  One  tablespoon  of  this,  well  washed,  the  usual  quantity 
of  milk  and  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  with  a  little  butter,  will  make  an  excel- 
lent rice  pudding.    Bake  very  slowly. 

No.  2. — Soak  3^  cup  rice  in  milk  till  soft,  then  add  4  cups  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  2  tablespoons  sugar;  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  very  slowly  for  2  hours;  it 
should  be  of  the  consistency  of  jelly  when  done.  The  secret  of  success  with  this 
pudding  is  to  bake  very  slowly,  and  bake  a  long  time.  A  cup  of  seeded  raisins  is 
a  great  improvement  if  added  when  it  is  put  in  the  oven.  Thick  sweet  cream  is 
the  best  sauce  for  it,  or  sugar  and  cream  mixed. 

Sago  and  Tapioca  puddings  made  in  the  same  way  are  delicious,  but  without 
any  raisins. 

No.  3. — Use  2  tablespoons  rice,  1  quart  milk,  %  teacup  white  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  or  lemon;  a  little  salt;  scald  the  rice,  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
scatter  on  top  a  little  butter  cut  in  small  bits.  Bake  2  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 
Pour  over  it  %  hour  before  it  is  done  %  teacup  cold  milk;  this  will  make  it  creamy. 

Roly  Poly  Pudding. — Use  1  cup  chopped  suet,  3  cups  flour,  1  even  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder,  1  even  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  the  suet,  flour,  salt,  and  baking 
powder  together;  then  with  a  little  cold  water  make  a  stiff  dough;  roll  out  in  a 
long  strip,  and  spread  it  with  jam,  preserves  or  fruit,  leaving  a  little  space  at  the 
edges  free;  wet  the  edges  and  roll  up  the  strip.  Dip  a  pudding  cloth  in  hot 
water;  flour  it  well;  put  in  the  pudding,  roll,  tie  up  the  ends  and  wind  it  with  a 
string  to  keep  it  in  place;  boil  2  hours.  Serve  with  sweet  sauce  with  a  trifle  of 
lemon  juice.  The  roly-poly  can  be  baked  in  a  buttered  pan,  if  preferred,  but 
without  the  cloth. 

Sponge  Pudding. — Use  1  cup  butter  rubbed  into  3  cups  flour:  1  teaspoon  soda 
stirred  in  1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  %  teaspoon  cinnamon;  %  teaspoon 
nutmeg;  1  cup  fruit,  if  liked;  steam  1%  hours. 

STEAMED  PUDDING. 

1  cup  of  molasses.  1  cup  raisins,chopped  fine.    2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon  or  instead 

XA  cup  butter  (scant).  1  teaspoon  soda.  Lof  this  )4  a  nutmeg. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  salt.  3  cups  flour. 

Steam  2  %.  hours. 

Steamed  Indian  Pudding. — Use  2  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  1%  cups  Indian  meal,  2 


224  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

small  tablespoons  beef  suet,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  3^  teaspoon  each  of  cin- 
namon and  ground  ginger.  1  saltspoon  salt,  a  pinch  of  soda.  Heat  the  milk  boil- 
ing hot,  add  the  soda  and  pour  it  upon  the  meal;  stir  well,  add  the  suet, 
chopped,  and  the  salt;  when  it  gets  cold,  add  the  eggs,  beaten  light,  the  molasses 
and  spices,  and  beat  all  hard.  Turn  into  a  well-greased  mold,  and  steam  4  hours. 
Eat  with  hard  sauce. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

1  cup  of  chopped  suet.  1  cup  of  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 

1  cup  of  seeded  raisins.  3  cups  of  flour.  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 

1  cup  of  molasses.  1  egg.  Steam  2  hours. 

SUET  PUDDING  NO.  2.' 

1  cup  molasses.  1  cup  of  raisins.  XA  teaspoon  of  soda. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  XA  cup  dried  currants. 

1  cup  suet,  chopped  fine.  2lA  cups  flour. 

Mix  well,  add  salt  and  spice  to  taste,  and  steam  2  hours.  Eat  with  liquid 
sauce.  If  suet  is  objected  to,  or  cannot  be  obtained,  %  cup  of  butter  may  be  used. 
Be  sure  the  pudding  is  thoroughly  done.  This  is  a  good  pudding  to  follow  a 
picked  up  dinner,  or  if  the  supply  is  a  little  short,  as  it  is  rather  substantial. 

Tapioca  Pudding1.— Soak  1  cup  tapioca  for  2  hours  in  cold  water  enough  to 
cover  it;  if  not  all  absorbed  drain  off  what  is  left;  add  1  quart  of  milk,  and  soak 

2  hours  longer;  when  the  tapioca  is  quite  soft,  beat  together  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Add  this  to  the  tapioca  with  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs  beaten  light;  stir  well  and  bake  till  brown  on  top;  then  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth  with  pulverized  sugar,  and  return  to  the  oven  to 
brown.  Be  careful  to  see  that  there  are  no  hard  lumps  left.  Eat  either  with  or 
without  sauce.  - 

Sago  pudding  may  be  made  the  same  way. 

Bice  pudding  can  be  made  the  same  way,  and  can  be  made  more  dainty  by 
adding  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  to  the  frosting. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding. — Put  1  cup  tapioca  in  1  quart  of  cold  water,  and  let  it 
soak  slowly  on  the  stove  until  thin  like  starch;  have  the  apples  peeled  and  quart- 
ered and  in  a  pan  ready  to  bake;  season  the  soaked  tapioca  with  sugar,  butter 
and  nutmeg,  pour  it  over  the  apples,  and  bake  till  done. 

Cocoanut  Tapioca  Pudding. — Soak  3  tablespoons  of  tapioca  in  water  over  night; 
then  put  it  in  1  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  boil  %  hour;  beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with 

1  cup  sugar,  add  3  tablespoons  prepared  cocoanut,  stir  it  in,  boil  10  minutes  longer, 
and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir 
in  3  tablespoons  sugar,  put  this  over  the  top  with  a  little  cocoanut  sprinkled 
over  it,  and  brown  5  minutes  in  the  oven. 

Tapioca  is  the  starch  extracted  from  the  root  of  a  plant  which  grows  in  South  Amer- 
ica. It  is  light  and  easily  digested,  but  as  it  is  about  8358  starch  it  is  not  very  nutritious. 
"When  used  for  puddings  crushed  tapioca  is  better  than  that  in  large  granules. 

Cassava  is  the  starch  from  the  same  root  more  highly  granulated.  It  is  called  manioc 
in  Brazil,  and  yucca  in  Peru. 

Sago  is  a  starch  obtained  mainly  from  the  pith  of  the  sago  palm.  A  single  tree  is  said 
to  yield  500  to  600  lb.  of  sago.  It  is  mainly  starch,  is  easily  digested  and  so  is  adapted  to  in- 
valids, but  is  not  very  nutritious.  Portland  sago,  or  Portland  arrow-root  is  a  starch  obtained 
from  the  tubers  of  a  species  of  arum. 

WHORTLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

2  cups  sugar.  4  cups  flour.  1  tablespoon  of  salt. 
2  cups  bread  crumbs.                  6  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk.  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Make  to  a  stiff  batter,  and  mix  in  1  quart  of  whortleberries.  Put  it  in  a  but- 
tered mold,  and  steam  3  hours.  Half  this  will  do  for  a  small  family.  Serve  with 
any  liquid  pudding  sauce  preferred. 

Apple  Dumplings. — These  may  be  either  baked  or  boiled;  if  baked,  they  should 


PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS.  225 

be  made  with  pastry;  if  boiled,  use  a  light  suet  crust.  In  either  case  pare  the 
apples  and  scoop  out  the  core,  filling  up  the  space  with  sugar  and  a  clove,  or 
some  grated  lemon  peel. 

For  baked  dumplings  make  a  light  puff  paste,  enclose  the  apples  in  it,  mak- 
ing as  many  as  desired,  push  the  edges  so  closely  that  no  seam  can  be  seen,  and 
bake  20  minutes  in  a  good  oven.  Eat  with  a  rich  pudding  sauce,  or  with  maple 
syrup. 

For  boiled  dumplings  chop  %  lb.  beef  suet  very  finely,  add  %  lb.  flour,  a  little 
salt  and  baking  powder,  and  mix  with  water  enough  to  give  it  consistency;  roll 
out  twice  on  the  pastry  board,  enclose  the  apples  as  for  baked  dumplings,  put 
them  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  fast  1  hour.    Drain,  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

CHEEKY  DUMPLINGS. 
Vi  cup  sugar.  2  heaping  tablespoons  lard.  2  cups  sweet  milk. 

2  cups  stoned  cherries.    1  cup  prepared  flour,  or  use  flour  and        A  little  salt, 
baking  powder  same  as  for  biscuits. 

After  rubbing  the  lard  into  the  salted  flour,  add  the  milk,  then  roll  out  }£  inch 
thick.  Cut  into  squares,  and  into  the  middle  of  each  one  put  2  spoonfuls  of  the 
stoned  cherries.  Add  sugar,  and  then  bring  the  edges  together  and  pinch  closely. 
Bake  until  done  on  a  floured  baking-pan,  with  the  joined  edges  at  the  bottom. 
Eat  while  hot. 

Huckleberry  Dumplings.— Use  1  tablespoon  lard,  4  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  3 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Sift  the  baking  powder  into  the  flour,  work  in  the  lard, 
and  add  the  milk;  when  rolled  out,  cut  rather  larger  than  biscuit;  after  putting 
in  the  berries,  close  the  edges  tightly,  and  boil  (or  steam)  20  minutes. 

Jam  Dumplings. — Roll  out  a  puff  paste,  and  spread  jam  (raspberry  or  any 
other)  on  it;  make  into  dumplings  and  boil  till  done — about  1  hour  usually.  Serve 
with  melted  butter  and  sugar  for  sauce. 

Steamed  Dumplings. — Pare  and  quarter  nice  tart  apples,  place  them  in  a  deep 
dish,  adding  a  little  water;  make  a  crust  as  you  would  for  tea  biscuit,  with  sour 
cream,  or  rich  buttermilk,  if  you  have  it;  if  not,  use  a  good  baking-powder  recipe; 
roll  out  about  1  inch  thick,  place  it  over  the  apples,  and  steam  J£  hour.  Serve 
with  a  sauce  made  of  %  butter  to  %  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream. 

Fruit  Dumplings  of  any  kind  can  be  made  in  this  way,  using  any  kind  of 
fruit,  either  fresh  or  canned. 

Pandowdy.— Pare,  core,  and  slice  thin,  sour,  juicy  apples;  butter  a  deep  dish 
and  put  in  a  layer  of  apples,  sweeten  with  brown  sugar  and  flavor  with  lemon 
peel;  strew  over  it  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  bits  of  butter;  repeat  alternately 
till  the  dish  is  full,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  till  the  apples 
are  soft.    A  little  cider  improves  it.    To  be  eaten  with  sweetened  cream. 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Do  not  boil  a  sauce  after  adding  the  butter.  If  sugar  and  cream  are  served 
for  a  pudding  sauce,  pass  them  separately,  letting  each  one  use  what  their  taste 
desires. 

Caramel. — This  makes  a  fine  flavoring  for  sauces  as  well  as  soups,  and  can  be 
prepared  as  directed  for  soups.  The  prepared  caramel  can  be  used  if  you  have 
it  on  hand.     (See  our  recipe  elsewhere  for  preparing  it.) 

Caramel  Syrup. — Sprinkle  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  over  the  bottom  of  the  frying- 
pan  and  put  over  the  fire  until  it  bubbles  brown  and  begins  to  smoke,  but  do  not 
let  it  burn  black;  then  add  a  pint  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  until  the  caramel  is 
dissolved;  then  add  2  cups  granulated  sugar  and  melt  to  a  syrup.  If  liked 
15 


226  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

heavier,  add  more  sugar.     This  makes  a  fine  substitute  for  maple  sugar,  and  has 
much  the  same  flavor.    It  is  also  excellent  with  griddle  cakes. 

Substitute  for  Cream. — Use  2  cups  sweet  milk,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of 
flour,  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  any  flavoring  desired.  Boil  the  milk,  beat  the  egg 
and  flour  with  sugar  enough  to  make  quite  sweet;  stir  this  into  the  milk  when 
that  boils,  and  let  it  simmer  (not  boil),  stirring  it  well;  flavor  to  taste  when  it 
cools.  This  is  better  than  thin  cream,  and  good  for  any  pudding  in  which  eggs 
are  used. 

Acid  Pudding  Sauce. — Mix  together  thoroughly  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter, 
and  2  tablespoons  flour;  add  a  little  vinegar  or  juice  of  some  acid  fruit,  and  a 
little  nutmeg;  pour  on  about  2  cups  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  a  few  minutes. 

Berry  Pudding  Sauce. — Use  2  eggs,  %  cup  butter,  and  1  cup  sugar  beaten 
well,  with  1  cup  boiling  milk,  and  1  cup  of  berries,  steamed  apples,  or  any  fruit 
(chopped)  you  may  have. 

Brown  Pudding  Sauce. — Take  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  %  CUP  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
sugar;  stir  all  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Cider  Sauce. — Use  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  4  tablespoons 
of  boiled  cider,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  %  cup  boiling  water.  Mix  the  flour  and 
butter,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  cider,  add  the  boiling  water,  mix  all  thoroughly,  and 
simmer  a  little  while. 

Cream  Sauce.— Whip  1  cup  cream  and  %  CUP  powdered  sugar;  add  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  stiff;  beat  all  together  and  serve  cold. 

Sweet  cream,  either  alone  or  sent  with  white  sugar,  makes  an  excellent  sauce 
for  most  puddings;  it  is  sometimes  flavored.  Whipped  cream  is  also  often  used. 
Delicate  Pudding  Sauce. — Scald  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  beat  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs  with  %  cup  of  brown  sugar,  and  stir  in;  when  it  is  thick  as  custard  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  add  whatever  flavoring  you  choose,  and  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Dutch  Sauce. — Take  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  whites  of  2  eggs.  Beat  together 
with  sufficient  sugar  to  give  the  proper  consistency. 

Foaming  Sauce. — Use  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  boiling  water. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  together;  pour  the  boiling  water  over.  Beat  the  whites 
of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  last. 

Foam  Sauce  No.  2. — Take  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  beat  it  with  1  cup  sugar  and 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  until  light,  add  boiling  water  and  set  it  over  a  kettle  un- 
til cooked;  flavor  with  lemon  juice;  beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
add  the  last  thing. 

Fruit  Juice  Sauce. — Take  %  pint  of  any  kind  of  fruit  juice,  like  apricot,  peach, 
etc.,  add  1  teaspoon  of  flour  or  corn-starch  and  %  cup  sugar;  mix  well,  boil  5 
minutes,  and  strain. 

Golden  Sauce. — Beat  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  into  1  cup  of  powdered 
sugar  until  light;  stir  into  this  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  3  tablespoons  of  milk  or 
cream,  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Set  the  bowl  in  which  the 
sauce  is  being  made  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  constantly  until  it 
thickens,  but  no  longer;  add  lemon  or  vanilla  when  the  sauce  is  done. 

Jelly  Sauce. — Use  2  tablespoons  of  jelly,  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  sugar,  J^ 
teaspoon  of  corn-starch  and  water.  Melt  the  jelly  and  sugar  in  %  piit  of  boiling 
water;  then  dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  J^  cup  of  cold  water  and  stir  it  in;  bring 
to  a  boil  and  it  will  be  done.    Any  jelly  can  be  used. 

Hard  Lemon  Sauce. — Mix  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  with  2  cups  sugar,  and 
beat  it  to  a  cream  with  1  cup  butter;  then  thoroughly  mix  with  the  sauce  the 
strained  juice  of  the  lemon. 


PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS.  227 

Hard  Vanilla  Sauce  is  made  by  beating  to  a  cream  1  cup  butter  and  2  cups 
sugar,  and  then  mixing  in  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Either  of  these  go  well 
with  plain  boiled  rice. 

Lemon  Sauce. — Take  1  cup  sugar,  1  lemon,  2  cups  water,  1  tablespoon  corn- 
starch; boil  from  8  to  10  minutes. 

Lemon  Sauce  No.  2. — Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  %  CUP  butter;  add  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  egg  well  beaten,  and  1  teaspoon  grated  nut- 
meg; set  the  dish  containing  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  add  ~%  cup  boiling  water, 
and  stir  5  minutes.     Keep  hot  until  used. 

Lombard  Sauee. — Heat  2  cups  cream  slowly,  set  in  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling  wa- 
ter; when  scalding  hot,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  add  4  teaspoons  powdered  sugar, 
and  %  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg;  stir  2  or  3  minutes,  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  mix  thoroughly,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  to  flavor,  and  set  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  to  keep  hot  till  served,  stirring  occasionally. 

Milk  Pudding  Sauce. — Take  1  egg,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar;  mix  thor- 
oughly together,  and  then  pour  over  them  1  cup  boiling  milk.  Flavor  with  nut- 
meg or  vanilla. 

Maple  Sugar  Sauce. — Shave  maple  sugar  into  a  bowl  of  thick,  sweet  cream.  It 
makes  one  of  the  best  of  sauces  for  cornmeal  pudding. 

Molasses  Sauce.— Use  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  %  CUP  °'  water,  1  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, %  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  (or  nutmeg),  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Mix  all  together,  and  boil  20  minutes.     Good  for  rice  or  apple  puddings. 

Orange  Sauce. — Use  1  cup  hot  water,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1  heaping 
tablespoon  of  corn-starch  wet  in  the  strained  juice  of  2  acid  oranges  (the  red,  or 
blood  oranges  are  the  best);  boil  the  water,  sugar  and  orange  peel,  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved;  then  add  the  corn-starch  and  orange  juice,  and  let  boil  until  it 
thickens;  take  out  the  orange  peel  and  add  the  butter,  with  1  saltspoon  of  salt; 
stir  well  together,  and  serve. 

Pine-Apple  Sauce. — Use  4  tablespoons  sugar  (heaping),  2  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter, white  of  1  egg  (beaten),  pine-apple  to  flavor.  Mix  the  sugar,  butter  and 
beaten  egg,  and  add  the  flavor.  Shape  it  into  a  pyramid,  and  make  the  sides  like 
a  pine-apple,  using  the  point  of  a  teaspoon.  Any  other  flavor  can  be  used,  if  pre- 
ferred. 

Plain  Pudding  Sauce. — Beat  together  thoroughly,  1  tablespoon  butter,  i  table- 
spoons sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  flour;  add  the  white  of  1  egg,  well  beaten,  and  ^ 
cup  boiling  water,  and  any  flavoring  desired.  This  makes  a  good  sauce  for  ordi- 
nary uses,  although  most  sauce  recipes  call  for  more  butter.  It  goes  well  with 
any  hot  pudding. 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce. — Rub  2  spoons  of  corn-starch  smooth  with  a  little  milk, 
and  stir  it  into  1  pint  of  boiling  water;  add  a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  use  cur- 
rant jelly  to  flavor  it  with.  It  may  be  well  to  know  that  a  good  foundation  for 
plum  pudding  sauce  is  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  as  that  is  quite  rich. 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce  No.  2. — Use  fresh  butter  and  pulverized  or  granulated 
sugar  beaten  together  until  the  mixture  becomes  of  the  consistency  of  cream. 

Sweet  Pudding  Sauce. — Beat  to  a  cream  %  CUP  butter  and  1  cup  sugar; 
thicken  1%  cups  boiling  water  with  a  very  little  corn-starch  (just  enough  to 
make  it  creamy);  let  it  boil,  draw  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  stir  the  butter 
and  sugar  in  quickly.    Flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon,  nutmeg,  or  anything  preferred. 

Vanilla  Sauce. — Use  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  whites  of  2  eggs,  %  CUP  sugar  (pow- 
dered), 3  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.    First  beat  to  a  stiff  froth 


228  PUDDINGS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

the  whites  of  3  eggs;  beat  the  sugar  in  next;  then  the  yolk  of  egg,  and  the  milk 
and  vanilla  last.    Serve  at  once.    Most  suitable  for  light  puddings. 

Vinegar  Sauce. — Use  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1%  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  cup 
sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  nutmeg.  Mix 
the  flour  in  a  little  water  and  stir  in  the  vinegar,  sugar,  salt  and  nutmeg;  add  the 
boiling  water,  and  boil  10  minutes;  add  the  butter  last,  just  as  it  is  about  to  be 
taken  from  the  stove. 

White  Pudding  Sauce.— Take  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
and  a  little  salt,  pour  on  1  cup  boiling  water,  and,  when  it  boils,  thicken  with  1 
large  tablespoon  of  flour  blended  in  3  of  milk;  boil  1  minute,  flavor  with  lemon, 
take  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  1 
tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar  added. 


DOUGHNUTS    AND    FRITTERS. 

The  Fat. — The  fat  for  frying  doughnuts  and  fritters  may  be  any  soft  fat  free 
from  rancidity,  which  is  at  hand;  pure  leaf  lard,  for  this  purpose,  was  once  con- 
sidered indispensable,  but  soft  suet,  or  the  fat  trimmed  from  the  outside  of  fat 
beef,  is  excellent,  combined  with  lard;  also  clarified  drippings  from  roasted  meat, 
either  beef  or  pork.  A  small  proportion  of  the  hard  kidney  suet  of  beef  may  be 
added,  but  if  hard  suet  is  in  excess  in  frying  fat,  food  cooked  therein  will  have  a 
thick,  tallowy  crust,  which  is  neither  palatable  nor  digestible.  Cotton  seed  oil, 
alone,  or  in  combination  with  a  small  proportion  of  beef  suet  is  used  by  some 
cooks;  others  dislike  it.  Of  this,  as  with  some  other  food  preparations,  the  taste 
may  perhaps  be  acquired.  Mutton  fat  should  never  be  added  to  the  frying  kettle, 
or  used  in  any  way;  as  stated  elsewhere,  the  strong  odor  to  which  many  people 
have  a  great  aversion,  is  intensified  by  reheating;  besides,  it  is  the  hardest  of  ani- 
mal fats,  and  cools  too  quickly  on  food  cooked  in  it.  If  black  specks  adhere  to  the 
doughnuts  after  they  are  fried,  put  a  few  slices  of  raw  potato  in  the  fat,  and  the 
specks  will  adhere  to  the  potato.  If  lard  or  drippings  are  not  perfectly  sweet, 
before  putting  in  any  dough  put  in  some  slices  of  raw  potato  and  fry  them;  the 
potatoes  will  absorb  the  rank  flavor.  A  few  slices  of  raw  potato  in  the  kettle  while 
cooking  doughnuts  will  keep  the  odor  from  permeating  the  house. 

Potatoes  are  largely  composed  of  starch  and  carbon  and  they  purify  the  fat  in  much 
the  same  way  that  water  is  purified  by  charcoal;  being  very  porous,  and  possessing  great 
powers  of  absorption,  they  take  up  the  gases  and  odors,  thus  purifying  the  fat. 

The  Kettle. — A  kettle  should  be  kept  for  the  purpose  of  frying  doughnuts  and 
fritters,  and  one  rounded  at  the  bottom,  broad,  and  shallow,  is  the  most  conven- 
ient shape. 

Clarifying  Fat. — The  frying-f  at  must  be  clarified  from  time  to  time,  as  more  or 
less  flour  falls  to  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  whenever  it  is  used;  the  fat  can  be 
poured  while  still  warm — not  hot — into  a  pan  of  water,  and  the  settlings  scraped 
from  the  cake  of  fat  when  it  is  cold;  a  more  simple  way  is  to  set  the  kettle  away 
with  the  fat  in  it  to  cool,  and  when  next  wanted  for  use  set  on  the  fire  just  long 
enough  to  start  the  cake  of  fat  from  the  kettle;  lift  it  from  the  kettle  with  a  carv- 
ing fork,  and  with  a  knife  cut  the  black  from  the  cake  of  fat,  wipe  out  the  kettle 
with  papers  and  put  them  in  the  fire;  then  return  the  fat  to  the  kettle  and  add 
more  if  needed.  The  dirty  looking  sediment  is  commonly  thrown  away,  but  it 
need  not  be  altogether  wasted;  when  a  considerable  quantity  has  accumulated  it 
may  be  clarified  by  the  second  method  described  for  clarifying  fats  in  our  article 
on  frying  meats,  etc.  (which  see.) 

The  Dough.— Be  careful  in  shortening  all  doughs  to  be  fried  in  fat,  either  for 
doughnuts  or  fritters,  for  if  too  tender,  they  will  absorb  the  frying  fat.  If  short- 
ening is  used,  eggs  must  be  added  and  the  dough  made  more  stiff,  to  counteract 
the  tendency  to  soak  fat;  little  or  no  shortening  is  best  for  most  doughs  cooked 
in  fat.  The  fat  must  also  be  hot  enough  for  any  dough  placed  in  it,  to  rise  in- 
stantly to  the  surface  of  the  fat;  this  can  be  ascertained  by  trying  it  with  a  small 
bit  of  dough,  before  proceeding  with  a  quantity.  Remember  that  a  frequent 
cause  of  trouble  is  innot  having  the  fat  hot  enough,  and  we  have  several  times 
alluded  to  this.  Have  it  so  that  it  gives  off  a  blue  smoke,  as  explained  for  frying 
meats  (which  see). 

DOUGHNUTS    OR   CRULLERS,   ETC. 

In  frying  all  kinds  of  doughnuts  let  them  thoroughly  brown  on  one  side  be- 
fore turning  them;  in  this  way  they  rise  thoroughly,  and  are  much  lighter  than 
if  frequently  turned  while  frying,  but  fry  both  sides  well  before  taking  them  out. 
Do  not  fry  so  many  at  once  as  to  cause  crowding.  When  done,  take  them  out, 
let  them  drain,  and  when  cool  keep  them  in  an  earthen  crock. 

(339) 


230  DOUGHNUTS  AND  FRITTERS. 

Fried  cakes  keep  moist  longer  when  made  with  brown  sugar  than  with  any 
other  kind.   • 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed.  1  cup  war  m  water.  3  eggs,  beaten. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  yeast.  Salt  and  spices. 

Rub  the  butter  and  lard  into  a  quart  of  sifted  flour,  add  1  even  tablespoon  of 
salt,  and  spices  if  liked;  put  the  water  in  the  flour,  then  the  beaten  eggs,  then  the 
sugar;  now  mix  all  together,  and  add  flour  enough  to  mold  into  a  soft  dough;  let 
it  rise  over  night,  knead  down  again  in  the  morning,  let  it  lie  on  the  molding- 
board  until  it  begins  to  rise  again,  then  roll  out  and  cut  in  rings  or  make  into 
twists,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  A  cup  of  washed  and  dried  Zante  currants  are  nice 
in  these  cakes. 

Plain  Doughnuts. — Use  1  cup  new  milk,  1  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder  sifted  into  2  cups  of  flour;  mix  all  together,  and  add  a 
little  more  flour  if  needed,  but  the  cakes  are  better  to  be  made  quite  soft.  Do 
not  mold  the  dough,  but  place  it  on  the  molding-board,  flatten  the  dough  down 
with  the  hands  until  it  is  about  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  shape  and  fry  in  hot 
fat.    Powdered  sugar  can  be  dredged  over  them  when  served,  if  liked. 

Doughnuts  No.  3. — Use  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  new  milk,  salt,  nutmeg,  and 
flour  enough  to  permit  the  spoon  to  stand  upright  in  the  mixture;  add  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  and  beat  until  very  light.  Drop  by  the  dessertspoonful 
into  hot  fat.  They  will  not  absorb  the  fat,  and  are  as  digestible  as  any  dough- 
nuts. 

Doughnuts  No.  4. — Usel  tablespoon  butter,  1%  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  sour 
milk  (or  buttermilk),  1  teaspoon  soda;  flour  enough  to  roll  out.    Spice  to  taste. 

Doughnuts  No.  5. — Use  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  shortening,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  and  flour  to  roll  out. 

Coffee  Doughnuts. — Usel  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  soda;  make  with  flour  as  soft  as  you  can  handle  it;  then 
make  into  twists  or  rings,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  These  are  not  rich,  but  are  nice  in 
the  morning  with  coffee. 

Cream  Doughnuts.— Beat  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  sugar  and  2  eggs  together; 
add  1  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  roll. 

FRIED  CAKES. 

1  cup  milk.  Flour  to  roll.  2  cuds  sugar  (scant).  4  medium-sized  eggs. 

1  large  spoon  melted  butter.    3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cinnamon  and  salt, 

FRIED  CAKES  NO.  3. 

2  cups  sour  milk.  2  cups  sugar.  2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  soda. 
1  tablespoon  shortening.    1  teaspoon  of  salt.       Flour  to  roll. 

CRUIXERS. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar.  3  eggs. 

2  cups  sour  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.        Spice  to  taste. 

Use  flour  enough  to  stiffen;  cut  out,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

JOEEY  BOYS. 

2  cups  Indian  meal  scalded.  54  cup  sugar.  l'cup  flour.  . 

V%  teaspoon  of  soda.  Vi  teaspoon  of  salt.  legg. 

Drop  by  tablespoonf uls  into  hot  fat,  and  fry  like  doughnuts. 


FRITTERS. 

These  are  composed  of  batters  and  doughs  of  various  kinds,  usually  enclosing 
fruits  or  sweets  of  some  sort,  and  are  fried  in  hot  fat;  they  are  eaten  hot,  and 
some  sweet  sauce  or  sugar  served  with  them.    They  should  be  quickly  made,  and 


DOUGHNUTS  AND  FRITTERS.  231 

thoroughly  beaten.  The  batter  should  be  smooth  and  thick  enough  to  cling  to 
whatever  is  dipped  into  it  without  running  off,  and  the  fat  should  be  very  hot,  in 
fact,  it  should  smoke.  Probably  more  cooks  fail  on  the  heat  of  the  fat  than  on 
anything  else,  and  yet  it  should  not  be  too  hot.  When  it  gives  off  a  blue  smoke, 
as  we  described  in  our  directions  for  frying  meats,  etc.,  it  is  right;  or  test  it  by 
dropping  in  a  teaspoonful  of  the  batter;  if  the  temperature  isright,the  batter  will 
quickly  rise  to  the  surface  in  a  puff  ball,  spattering  and  dancing,  and  will  speed- 
ily become  a  light  brown.  When  the  fat  is  right,  it  will  not  soak  into  the  dough, 
but  will  make  it  delightfully  crisp,  light,  and  puffy.  In  the  introduction  to  this 
chapter,  we  explain  about  the  kinds  of  fat  to  use.  Take  the  fritters  out  with  a 
skimmer,  as  soon  as  they  are  done,  dislodge  any  fat  which  adheres,  pile  them  in 
a  hot  dish,  sift  sugar  over  them,  and  serve  at  once. 

The  batter  may  be  simply  made,  as  for  griddle  cakes,  and  of  about  the  same 
consistency.  If  it  is  allowed  to  stand  an  hour  or  so  before  being  used,  the  starch 
grains  will  swell  by  contact  with  the  moisture,  and  hence  it  will  be  lighter.  Eggs 
added  to  the  batter  make  it  crisp  and  delicate,  and  ensure  a  good  coating  over  the 
fruit,  etc.,  enclosed.  Baking  powder,  or  cream  of  tartar  and  soda,  are  sometimes 
used  when  the  batter  is  wanted  very  light;  when  shortening  is  used  add  eggs 
also,  as  their  albumen  quickly  coagulates  in  the  hot  fat,  and  forms  a  crust,  or 
film,  which  prevents  the  fat  from  soaking  in.  The  best  batter  is  made  with  the 
yolk  of  egg,  and  just  before  using,  the  white  is  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  added 
also.  Always  add  a  little  salt.  A  little  more  flour  can  be  used,  making  the  batter 
a  little  thicker,  for  fruit  which  is  very  juicy. 

Fritters  are  quickly  made,  and  can  be  served  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  tea,  or 
as  a  dessert  for  dinner,  and  they  are  almost  invariably  relished.  Hot  caramel 
syrup,  or  maple  syrup  can  be  served  with  them,  or  the  simple  white  syrup  made 
of  granulated  sugar  and  a  little  water,  while  many  of  the  pudding  sauces  are  also 
suitable. 

Fritter  Batter  (Plain). — Use  2  cups  of  flour  and  2  eggs.  Beat  the  eggs  and 
flour  together,  and  add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  batter  of  the  consistency  of 
griddle  cakes;  then  beat  in  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt.  This  batter  is  simply  made, 
and  can  be  used  for  any  kind  of  fritters. 

Batter  No.  2. — Mix  together  3^  cup  water  or  milk,  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  1  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  then  beat  in  enough 
flour  to  make  a  good  batter  of  it.  Many  cooks  use  1  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  in- 
stead of  the  butter,  and  prefer  it.  Just  before  using  it  beat  in  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  the  2  eggs.  If  it  is  used  for  meat,  oysters,  or  clams,  2  teaspoons  of  vin- 
egar or  lemon  juice  will  be  an  improvement;  if  for  fruit,  add  instead  1  teaspoon 
of  sugar. 

Apple  Fritters. — Peel  the  apples,  and  take  out  the  core  with  a  core-cutter,  cut 
the  apples  in  thick  slices,  crosswise^this  makes  a  ring;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
let  them  lie  for  an  hour;  then  dip  each  piece  in  batter,  and  fry  until  of  a  light 
brown  color.    Sprinkle  again  with  sugar  and  send  to  the  table. 

Banana  Fritters. — Cut  the  bananas  in  slices^  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered cinnamon,  dip  in  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.     Serve  with  syrup. 

Berry  Fritters.— Make  a  batter  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  add  a  gill  of  cream  and 
a  gill  of  milk  thickened  with  a  tablespoon  of  corn-starch;  season  with  a  little 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Put  raw  strawberries  into  this  batter,  and  fry  them  in  a 
pan  of  hot  lard,  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Dish  them  in  a  pyramid,  and  sift  sugar 
over  and  between  them.  Raspberries,  blackberries,  currants,  and  other  small 
fruits  can  be  made  into  fritters  in  this  manner,  and  are  delicious. 

Bread  Fritters. — Cut  stale  bread  into  slices  %  inch  thick,  and  then  cut  it  into 
small  squares.  Into  2  cups  milk  put  a  piece  of  cinnamon  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon; 
boil  it  %  hour;  dip  the  bits  of  bread  in  the  milk,  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain, 
then  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve.    Or  (2)  dip  thin  slices  of  yeast  bread  in 


232  DOUGHNUTS  AND  FRITTERS. 

the  plain  fritter  batter,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.    Sprinkle  on  powdered  sugar, 
and  garnish  with  jelly. 

Cake  Fritters. — Cut  rounds,  squares  or  triangles  of  any  kind  of  dry  cake,  dip 
them  in  milk  with  a  little  lemon  juice  added,  then  flour  them,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 
Carrot  Fritters. — Take  2  boiled  carrots,  beat  them  to  a  pulp,  add  2  eggs,  3 
tablespoons  of  flour,  moisten  them  with  milk  or  cream,  add  1  teaspoon  sugar,  and 
beat  together  thoroughly;  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  smoking  hot  fat;  when  done, 
squeeze  a  little  orange  juice  over  them,  and  sprinkle  on  pulverized  sugar. 

Clam  Fritters. — Drain  the  liquor  from  the  clams,  and  make  a  fritter  batter 
with  it;  chop  the  hard  part  of  the  clams,  mix  them  in  the  batter,  and  drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  smoking  hot  fat. 

Corn  Fritters. — Boil  the  corn,  cut  it  from  the  cob,  mix  it  in  the  fritter  batter, 
and  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Cornmeal  Fritters. — To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  3  cups  milk,  2 
cups  cornmeal,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt; 
mix  all  thoroughly,  and  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  4  eggs,  and  ^  cup  flour 
in  which  3^  teaspoon  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
smoking  hot  fat;  when  done,  drain  on  brown  paper,  to  absorb  the  fat.  Eat  with 
a  sauce  made  of  butter  and  sugar,  seasoned  with  cinnamon. 

Cream  Fritters. — Mix  3  cups  flour  with  2  cups  milk;  stir  in  6  well-beaten  eggs, 
then  2  teaspoons  salt  and  2  cups  cream;  stir  the  whole  just  enough  to  intermix 
the  cream,  and  fry.  .The  addition  of  a  few  tender  apples,  chopped  fine,  will 
improve  them. 

Fruit  Fritters. — Almost  every  kind  of  fruit  will  make  fritters.  If  the  fruit  is 
cut  up,  sprinkled  with  sugar,  and  allowed  to  stand  2  or  3  hours  before  being  used, 
the  flavor  is  improved;  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  can  be  added  also,  if  desired. 
Then  drain  the  fruit,  dip  or  mix  it  in  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Apricots, 
peaches,  pears,  pineapples,  etc.,  make  nice  fritters  in  this  way.  Canned  fruit 
can  also  be  used,  and  makes  nice  fritters. 

Jelly  or  Jam  Fritters. — Make  a  batter  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  and  flour 
enough  to  thicken  to  the  consistency  of  griddle  cakes;  beat  in  a  level  teaspoon  of 
salt,  and  drop  in  spoonfuls  in  hot  lard;  fry  brown.  When  well  drained,  place  on 
eaqh  one  a  hit  of  jam  or  firm  jelly.  (Lemon  jelly  made  with  gelatine  is  nice  for 
these  fritters.) 

Lemon  Fritters. — The  lemons  must  be  sliced  as  thin  as  paper,  the  seeds  care- 
fully removed,  and  then  cover  them  with  butter,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 
Orange  fritters  can  be  made  the  same  way. 
MeatFritters. — Take  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  with  fritter  batter,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat;  drain 
on  brown  paper  and  serve.  A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  on  the  meat 
and  a  little  nutmeg  grated  on  will  be  an  improvement,  or  the  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 
can  be  added  to  the  fritter  batter.  (See  our  batter  No.  2.)  Tripe  makes  good 
fritters. 

Oyster  Fritters. — Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  to  1  cup  of  this  liquor 
add  1  cup  milk,  3  beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  bat- 
ter; chop  the  oysters,  add  them  to  the  batter,  and  drop  by  the  spoonful  into 
smoking  hot  fat.  Serve  immediately  when  done.  Or  (2)  boil  the  oysters  until  the 
liquor  flows;  make  a  batter  with  the  liquor,  dip  in  each  oyster  whole,  and  fry  in 
smoking  hot  fat.  A  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  added  either  to  the  oysters  or 
the  batter  will  be  an  improvement. 


DOUGHNUTS  AND  FRITTERS.  233 

Pork  Fritters.— Dip  thin  slices  of  fat  pork,  or  breakfast  bacon,  in  batter,  and 
fry  in  hot  fat. 

Potato  Fritters. — Use  2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  1  egg,  %  teaspoon  salt,  and  3 
tablespoons  flour,  into  which  %  teaspoon  baking  powder  is  sifted;  make  in  rolls, 
roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.    These  are  a  nice  relish  for  breakfast. 

Raw  Potato  Fritters. — Grate  4  large  raw  potatoes,  add  a  little  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  make  a  rather  thick  batter  by  adding  2  beaten  eggs;  drop  in  hot  fat 
in  spoonfuls,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

Rice  Fritters.— To  1  cup  of  boiled  or  steamed  rice  allow  2  eggs,  and  a  table- 
spoon of  flour;  add  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  1  of  ground  cinnamon;  mix  thor- 
oughly with  the  hand,  then  drop  in  spoonfuls  in  hot  lard;  fry  brown. 

Salsify  Fritters. — Boil  the  salsify,  mash  it,  pick  out  all  tough  fibres,  and  for 
each  2  cups  of  mashed  salsify  work  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  then  %  cup  of 
milk  and  3  well-beaten  eggs;  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  make  into  round  cakes, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat;  or  the  batter  may  be  fried  like 
griddle  cakes. 

Vegetable  Fritters.— Boil  the  vegetables  until  tender,  and  either  cut  in  slices, 
dip  them  in  the  fritter  batter  and  fry,  or  chop  fine,  mix  the  pieces  into  fritter 
batter,  and  drop  it  by  spoonfuls  into  smoking  hot  fat  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 
Celery,  parsnips,  and  other  vegetables  can  be  used. 

Various  Fritters. — An  ingenius  cook  can  easily  devise  varieties  by  using  dif- 
ferent flavors.  Use  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  for  meat,  oyster  or  clam  fritters,  and 
cinnamon,  nutmeg,  orange  juice,  jellies,  etc.,  in  various  combinations,  and  also 
vary  the  sauces  used.  As  almost  any  meat,  fruit  or  vegetables  can  be  used  for 
fritters,  the  varieties  that  can  be  produced  are  almost  endless. 

Cannelons. — These  are  made  of  puff  puste  rolled  very  thin,  and  cut  in  pieces 
about  2  inches  wide  and  6  inches  long;  place  upon  each  piece  a  spoonful  of  jam, 
wet  the  edges  with  the  white  of  egg,  and  fold  the  paste  over  twice  to  prevent  the 
escape  of  the  jam  while  frying;  slightly  press  the  edges  of  the  cannelons,  and  fry 
in  boiling  lard  until  a  nice  brown.  Lay  them  on  blotting  paper  to  absorb  super- 
fluous fat,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  before  serving.  Cannelons  can  be  made  with 
any  kind  of  fresh  fruit,  and  are  delicious. 


CAKE. 

The  4  corner-stones  of  cake  making  are  flour,  sugar,  butter  and  eggs.  By  com- 
bining these  in  varying  proportions  and  using  a  few  minor  accessories,  an  endless 
variety  of  attractive  and  delicious  cakes  are  obtained. 

In  measuring  for  cake  the  cups,  if  more  than  1  is  used,  must  be  of  exactly 
the  same  size,  for  the  cook  must  remember  that  success  is  more  apt  to  follow 
accuracy  of  measurement.  Make  the  fire  the  first  thing,  and  while  the  oven  is 
heating,  measure  and  place  on  the  cooking  table  all  the  materials  for  the  cake, 
and  have  at  hand  all  the  implements  (forks,  spoons,  cup,  beaters,)  which  will  be 
required  in  making  it. 

Materials  for  Cake. — These  should  always  be  of  the  best  quality,  as  cake  is  a 
luxury,  and  if  served  at  all  should  be  made  of  the  best  ingredients.  Have  every- 
thing perfectly  dry,  as  dampness  in  the  materials  is  almost  certain  to  produce 
heaviness  in  the  cake.  It  is  best  to  have  each  ingredient  properly  prepared  be- 
fore beginning  to  mix  the  cake,  and  in  cold  weather  warm  them  to  a  uniform 
temperature  and  they  will  mix  better.  While  all  the  materials  should  be  good, 
however,  many  cooks  are  needlessly  extravagant  in  their  use  of  butter  and  eggs, 
and  we  commend  to  our  readers  the  economical  recipes  which  we  have  gathered 
together  in  this,  as  in  other  departments  of  the  book. 

Butter  used  in  cake  making  should  be  free  from  rancidity.  In  cold  weather 
let  it  stand  near  the  stove  to  soften,  but  most  cake  makers  agree  that  it  should 
not  melt.  It  must  be  worked  and  beaten  with  the  sugar  until  it  is  thoroughly 
creamed.  Many  cooks  use  moderately  salted  butter  without  washing,  as  the 
small  amount  of  salt  which  it  contains  adds  to  the  flavor  of  the  cake,  but  if  it  is 
excessively  salted  the  washing  process  is  indispensable.  To  wash  butter  it  must 
be  thoroughly  worked  with  the  hands  in  a  deep  pan  or  pail  of  water  until  it  is 
soft  and  pasty,  changing  the  water  once  or  twice  if  needed.  In  cold  weather 
the  water  may  be  slightly  warmed,  but  in  summer  it  should  be  cold. 

Sugar  should  always  be  dry  and  well  powdered.  For  delicate  cakes,  pulver- 
ized or  the  finest  grade  of  granulated  sugar  should  be  used.  Some  kinds  of  fruit 
cake  have  a  fine  flavor  imparted  by  using  a  good  quality  of  unrefined  brown 
sugar,  and  brown  sugar  is  suitable  for  most  dark  cakes.  Cake  is  made  heavy  by 
using  very  coarse  granulated  sugar.  Lumpy  sugar  should  always  be  crushed 
and  sifted. 

Molasses  for  cooking  should  be  the  rich,  dark  New  Orleans  or  West  India 
molasses.  Light  colored  syrups  are  sometimes  made  of  glucose  and  are  inferior, 
being  less  sweet  than  that  drained  from  crude  sugar,  these  grades  being  the  viscid, 
brown  liquid  which  drains  from  sugar  during  its  formation.  In  baking  cakes  re- 
member that  those  containing  molasses  burn  quicker  than  others. 

Flour. — Pastry  flour  (that  is  "old  process"  or  St.  Louis  flour)  is  much  the  best 
for  all  kinds  of  cake.  It  contains  more  starch  and  less  gluten  than  the  new  pro- 
cess flour.  A  trifle  less  flour  (about  %  less)  must  be  used  if  it  is  new  process.  Be 
sure  the  flour  is  dry;  sift  it  before  using,  and  if  it  is  cold,  warm  it  slightly. 
Measure  it  after  being  sifted. 

Eggs  will  beat  more  quickly  in  cold  weather  if  they  are  placed  for  a  short 
time  in  warm  water  before  breaking  them.  In  summer  put  them  in  cold  water 
for  a  short  time.  Break  each  egg  separately  into  a  cup  to  make  sure  that  it  is 
not  stale;  not  only  look  to  see  if  it  is  good  but  test  it  also  by  smelling.  An  egg 
that  is  the  least  tainted  will  spoil  the  cake  or  anything  else  in  which  it  is  used. 
The  quickest  way  to  separate  the  yolk  and  the  white  is  to  carefully  break  them 
into  a  plate  and  then  lift  out  the  yolk  with  the  fingers,  allowing  the  white  to  fall 
between  them.  If  even  the  smallest  amount  of  yolk  gets  mixed  into  the  whites 
they  will  not  froth.  Beat  eggs  in  an  earthen  dish.  The  whites  and  yolks  are  best 
beaten  separately  as  it  takes  longer  to  beat  the  whites.  When  beaten  separately, 
if  the  cook  has  no  assistant,  the  yolks  should  be  beaten  first  and  until  they  are  a 
light  lemon  color,  and  strain  them  if  the  cake  is  fine;  then  beat  the  whites  until 
they  are  too  stiff  to  fall  out  of  an  inverted  dish.    If  the  whites  become  liquid 

(234) 


CAKES.  235 

again  they  cannot  afterwards  be  made  light,  so  do  not  stop  beating  till  they  are 
light  and  stiff.  The  eggs  should  be  put  in  a  cool  place  till  wanted  to  use.  When 
only  the  whites  are  used,  the  yolks,  if  unbroken  and  kept  covered,  will  keep  2  or 
3  days,  but  it  is  better  to  use  them  at  once,  working  them  into  custards,  etc. 
The  whites  of  eggs  will  beat  quicker  if  a  pinch  of  salt  is  added,  and  they  also  beat 
more  easily  in  a  cool  place  or  in  a  draught.  If  both  yolks  and  whites  are 
strained  through  a  sieve  before  beating  them  they  will  beat  smoother  and  easier. 

The  object  in  beating  eggs  is  to  force  in  air.  The  more  and  quicker  they  are  beaten  the 
better,  up  to  the  point  where  the  albumen  forms  a  thin  film  around  all  the  air  bubbles  it 
will  hold— millions  of  them.  More  beating  after  that  only  serves  to  break  the  film  and  let 
the  air  escape,  and  then  the  eggs  will  fall.  If  allowed  to  stand  after  being  beaten,  their 
own  weight  will  break  the  thin  films,  the  air  will  escape,  and  they  will  fall.  Because  of  the 
oil  contained  in  yolks  they  will,  if  added  to  beaten  whites,  cause  the  films  to  break,  and  so 
let  out  the  air.    This  is  the  principle  involved.  •    . 

Milk  when  called  for  in  our  recipes,  always  means  sweet  milk,  unless  other- 
wise specified.  Some  cooks  use  water  instead  of  milk  in  even  the  best  cakes,  and 
water  can  be  substituted  without  detriment,  so  that  if  you  wish  to  make  a  cake 
calling  for  milk,  and  you  are  out  of  it,  you  can  still  make  the  cake  and  use  water 
instead. 

Spices  for  cake  should  be  of  the  best  quality.  Cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  and 
pepper  are  much  nicer  if  bought  in  bulk,  and  freshly  ground  at  home,  when  needed. 

Fruit  is  best  prepared  the  day  before.  It  should  be  dry  when  used.  Leave 
out  a  little  flour  for  the  purpose  and  roll  the  fruit  in  it  just  before  putting  it  in 
the  cake.  With  raised  cake  spread  fruit  lightly  on  top,  pressing  it  in  a  little, 
but  do  not  beat  it  in  or  it  will  sink  to  the  bottom. 

Almonds  should  be  blanched  by  being  put  into  boiling  water;  leave  a  few 
minutes  and  then  rub  off  the  skin;  then  throw  into  cold  water  to  preserve  their 
color.  If  they  are  pounded,  a  little  white  of  egg  or  water  should  be  added  every 
2  or  3  minutes  to  prevent  their  oiling.  Or  cut  them  up  and  roll  with  a  rolling- 
pin  on  a  table  or  marble  slab,  spreading  a  little  sugar  on  first.  If  not  pounded  or 
rolled  they  should  be  cut  into  thin  slices  or  divided  lengthwise.  To  shread 
almonds,  cut  them  with  a  sharp  knife  into  tine  strips  lengthwise. 

Citron  should  be  sliced  very  thin,  and  the  pieces  should  not  be  too  large. 

A  cocoanut  should  have  the  milk  drawn  out  through  a  hole  cut  in  the  end; 
crack  it  and  take  the  meat  out  (having  previously  loosened  it  by  pounding  it  all 
over)  and  dry  for  a  few  hours  in  a  cool  open  oven;  then  grate  and  use.  If  any  is 
left  it  can  be  kept  for  several  weeks,  if  necessary,  by  sprinkling  it  with  sugar  and 
keeping  it  in  a  cool,  dry  airy  place. 

Currants  should  be  washed  in  warm  water,  changing  it  2  or  3  times,  and  rub- 
bing them  well  with  the  hand.  Then  drain  them,  spread  out  on  a  cloth,  and  pick 
out  all  bad  ones,  sticks,  grit,  etc.,  and  dry  them  in  the  sun;  an  oven  Unless  very  slow 
will  harden  them.  It  is  well  to  prepare  several  pounds  at  a  time,  and  keep  them 
in  glass  jars.  English  currants  are  apt  to  be  "gritty;"  they  may  be  made  to 
"plump,"  or  fill  out,  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them,  after  which  dry  them. 
Currants  are  neither  so  wholesome  nor  nutritious  as  raisins. 

Dates  are  prepared  by  separating  them  from  each  other;  then  put  them  into 
lukewarm  water,  shake  them  about  for  2  or  3  minutes,  and  drain.  Now  take  out 
the  stones;  this  can  be  done  with  the  fingers  as  a  rule,  but  if  they  are  very  hard 
use  a  sharp  knife.  Then  rinse  them  very  carefully  again,  and  drain  them  very 
thoroughly. 

Raisins  can  be  stoned  more  easily  if  boiling  water  is  poured  over  them  and 
left  on  5  or  6  minutes,  as  that  loosens  the  seeds.  Pick  out  stems  and  defective 
raisins.  For  light  fruit  cake  they  may  be  chopped,  but  not  too  fine.  Have  them 
perfectly  dry  when  used,  and  dredge  flour  over  them. 

Baking  powder,  Cream  of  Tartar  and  Soda.—  Cake  should  not  be  made  over- 
light  with  baking  powder.  A  less  quantity  is  needed,  in  porportion  to  the  flour, 
than  for  biscuits,  which  are  made  light  and  comparatively  dry,  as  they  are  to  be 
eaten  soon  after  being  made,  but  cake  is  made  to  keep  for  some  time— a  week  or 
longer.  It  should  of  course  be  light,  but  fine-grained  and  moist.  The  rule  for 
biscuits  is  about  3  rounded  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  to  a  quart  ot  flour;  for 
that  amount  of  flour  in  cake,  made  with  eggs  properly  beaten,  1  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder  is  sufficient.  The  baking  powder  or  cream  of  tartar  should  be  well 
sifted  into  the  flour  before  mixing  that  into  either  cake,  biscuits  or  bread.  Dis- 
solve the  soda  in  a  little  milk  or  water. 


236  CAKES. 

Cream  of  tartar  and  soda  can  be  used  instead  of  baking  powder  in  any  recipe, 
or  vice  versa,  but  as  all  baking  powder  contains  some  starch  or  flour  to  keep  it 
dry  (see  our  recipe  for  making  it)  it  is  not  quite  as  strong  as  the  pure  cream  of 
tartar  and  soda,  so  that  about  %  more  baking  powder  is  required  than  of  the 
cream  of  tartar  and  soda  combined.  The  usual  proportion  for  1  quart  of  flour 
for  bread  or  biscuit  is  1  teaspoon  soda  and  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar;  or  3 
rounded  teaspoons  baking  powder;  and  a  convenient  rule  is  1  level  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  to  1  cup  flour,  but  cake,  when  lightened  with  eggs,  requires  less 
than  %  of  this. 

The  2  alkalies  used  in  cooking  are  soda  and  potash  or  their  derivatives.  Potash  is  found 
in  all  fertile  soils,  and  is  essential  to  plants,  and  all  land  plants  when  burned  yield  potash. 
When  calcined  and  purified  it  yields  pearlash.  Saleratus  is  a  kind  of  pearlash  derived  by 
subjecting  it  to  the  action  of  carbonic  acid  gas.    The  potash  compounds  are  now  little  used. 

Soda  is  obtained  from  sea-salt  or  marine  plants.  It  is  called  sal-soda  when  unpurified. 
It  is  combined  with  1  part  of  carbonic  acid  to  form  the  carbonate,  and  2  parts  of  carbonic 
acid  to  form  the  bicarbonate  of  soda,  or  the  baking  soda  ordinarily  used.  Soda  should 
always  be  thoroughly  pulverized  before  it  is  measured  so  that  there  are  no  lumps  in  it. 
Strong  alkalies  are  powerful  poisons  and  must  be  counteracted  or  rendered  inert  before  en- 
tering the  system.  This  is  done  by  the  acids  used.  The  too  free  use  of  soda  or  saleratus  in 
cooking  is  injurious  to  the  health,  and  is  recognized  and  commented  on  by  good  medical 
authorities.  The  alkali  particularly  affects  the  coatings  of  the  stomach  and  bowels  and 
causes  indigestion  and  bowel  complaint,  sometimes  ending  in  acute  inflammation.  Children 
are  often  injured  by  it.  Bicarbonate  of  soda  contains  twice  as  much  carbonic  acid  as  com- 
mon washing  soda,  but  if  it  is  dissolved  in  hot  water,  or  heated  in  any  way,  this  extra  gas  is 
driven  off,  and  it  is  at  once  reduced  to  the  level  of  common  washing  soda.  For  this  reason 
soda  should  never  be  dissolved  in  hot  water;  tepid  water  may  be  used,  but  cold  water  or 
milk  is  best.  It  will  dissolve  as  thoroughly  in  cold  as  in  hot  water,  although  not  as  quickly; 
or  it  can  be  thoroughly  mixed  and  sifted  into  part  of  the  flour,  and  will  then  be  incorpor- 
ated so  as  to  leave  no  yellow  spots.  If  used  in  molasses,  dissolve  it  in  as  little  water  as 
possible,  beat  it  into  the  molasses  till  it  foams,  and  then  add  it  to  the  other  materials  at 
once. 

Cream  of  Tartar  is  an  acid  obtained  from  crude  tartar,  or  argol,  a  substance  deposited 
on  the  sides  of  the  casks  during  the  fermentation  of  wine.  It  is  purified  by  using  charcoal 
and  clay,  and  crystallized.  When  cream  of  tartar  unites  with  the  bicarbonate  of  soda, 
carbonic  acid  gas  is  liberated,  and  the  minute  bubbles  permeate  the  mass  of  dough  and 
make  it  rise,  while  the  residue  forms  a  salt  known  as  Eochelle  salt.  This  is  a  well-known 
cathartic,  but  is  not  harmful  in  the  small  quantities  thus  formed.  The  acid  and  the  alkali 
should,  however,  be  so  proportioned  as  to  neutralize  each  other.  They  then  form  what  is 
known  as  a  neutral  salt.  If  the  acid  is  in  excess  the  salt  will  be  acid,  and  if  the  alkali  is  in 
excess  it  will  be  alkaline.  Experiment  shows  that  1  level  teaspoon  of  soda  is  neutralized 
by  2  full  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar— that  is,  by  a  little  more  than  2  parts  of  cream  of 
tartar  to  1  part  of  soda;  and  these  are  the  proportions  in  which  they  should  be  used. 

Muriatic  acid  is  sometimes  used  instead  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  when  acted  on  by  soda 
it  leaves  a  residue  of  common  salt,  which  is  unobjectionable.  It  acts  so  quickly,  however, 
that  it  is  not  adapted  to  domestic  use,  as  much  of  the  gas  will  escape  before  it  performs 
any  work,  but  it  is  sometimes  used  in  bakeries. 

When  sour  milk  is  used,  the  lactic  acid  it  contains  acts  on  the  soda  the  same  as  the  acid 
cream  of  tartar,  and  so  liberates  gas.  The  proportion  to  use  is  1  teaspoon  of  soda  to  1  pint 
of  sour  milk,  or  y2  teaspoon  to  a  cup,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  very  sour  milk  con- 
tains more  acid  than  that  which  is  just  turning,  so  that  some  judgment  is  needed  in  gaug- 
ing the  proportions.  In  recipes  where  molasses  is  used,  milk  which  tastes  or  smells  sour, 
hut  is  not  £7uefc,can  be  used  as  sweet  milk. 

Molasses  furnishes  another  acid  which  answers  the  same  purpose  as  that  of  the  sour 
milk  and  cream  of  tartar,  acting  on  the  alkaline  soda  and  liberating  carbonic  acid  gas. 

How  to  Mix  Cake. — Probably,  as  many  cakes  are  wasted  through  improper 
mixing,  as  by  any  other  cause,  unless  it  is  insufficient  beating.  In  mixing  cakes 
in  which  butter  is  used  proceed  in  the  following  order: 

1.  Cream  the  butter.  If  it  is  very  cold,  warm  without  melting  it.  (For  the 
method  of  creaming  butter,  see  "Puddings.") 

2.  Add  the  sugar  and  beat  it  thoroughly.  If  a  very  large  amount  is  used,  part 
may  be  beaten  into  the  eggs. 

3.  Add  the  seasoning — spices,  lemon-juice,  flavoring  extracts,  etc.,  as  given 
in  each  recipe,  and  incorporate  them  well  with  the  butter  and  sugar. 

4.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  egg,  and  beat  all  well  together. 

5.  Add  the  milk. 

6.  Add  the  flour,  which  should  be  already  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  baking 
powder.  Stir  it  in,  a  little  at  a  time,  or  add  a  little  flour  and  milk  alternately, 
stirring  continually,  and  now  beat  long  and  vigorously  to  fill  it  with  air  and  make 
the  cake  smooth  and  fine-grained. 

7.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  egg. 

8.  Add  the  fruit,  if  used,  which  should  be  already  dusted  with  flour.  Make 
fruit  cakes  a  little  stiff er  with  flour  than  those  without  fruit. 

Beat  continuously,  from  beginning  to  end  of  the  process.  Place  the  dough  in 
the  prepared  cake-tins  and  send  to  the  oven  as  soon  as  possible,  when  finished  eo 


CAKES.  237 

that  the  air  which  has  been  beaten  in  (and  which,  by  expanding,  makes  it  light) 
may  not  escape. 

Always  work  cake  together  with  a  spoon,  if  possible,  but  when  a  large  quan- 
tity of  fruit  cake  is  made,  it  is  necessary  to  use  the  hand  in  order  to  mix  it  prop- 
erly. 

For  sponge  cakes  (which  are  those  made  without  butter  or  shortening)  pro- 
ceed as  follows:  (1)  Beat  the  yolks.  (2)  Gradually  add  the  sugar  and  beat  well. 
(3)  Add  the  flavoring  and  water,  if  used.  (4)  Add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
(5)  Sift  in  the  flour  and  carefully  fold  it  in.  After  adding  the  flour,  sponge  cakes, 
unlike  other  cakes,  should  not  be  beaten.  The  lightness  depends  on  the  quan- 
tity of  air  beaten  into  the  egg.  Less  beating  is  required  when  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar  are  used,  but  the  cake  is  not  as  good. 

Always  use  an  earthen  bowl  or  pan,  for  mixing  cake.  Butter  and  sugar,  if 
worked  to  a  cream  in  tin,  is  apt  to  be  discolored.  Beat  the  eggs  with  a  silver  or 
wooden  spoon.  As  a  rule  (in  cold  weather,  always),  pour  hot  water  into  the  mix- 
ing-bowl to  warm  it;  then  wipe  dry.  This  facilitates  the  blending  of  the  butter 
and  sugar,  and  is  the  first  operation.  If  a  large  quantity  of  cake  is  to  be  made, 
the  cook  should  have  an  assistant;  for  a  small  quantity,  and  if  the  cook  is  alone, 
everything  in  the  way  of  ingredients  or  utensils  should  be  ready  at  hand  on  the 
cooking  table,  so  that  there  will  be  no  delay.  Much  depends  on  mixing  the  cake 
rapidly,  and  immediately  placing  it  in  the  oven.  Those  who  will  bear  the  above 
rules  in  mind  can  handle  any  cake,  so  far  as  the  mixing  is  concerned. 

Beating  and  Stirring. — There  is  a  good  deal  of  difference  between  beating 
and  stirring.  Stirring  merely  mixes  the  different  ingredients  together,  while 
beating  carries  in  air  and  thoroughly  distributes  it  through  the  mass,  and  in 
baking,  this  air  expands  and  makes  the  cake  light.  Unless  the  air  is  well  beaten 
into  the  dough,  no  after  attention  will  make  it  light  and  wholesome.  After  put- 
ting in  the  beaten  white  of  egg,  too  much  subsequent  beating  will  let  the  air 
escape,  and  so  be  a  detriment.  It  is  beating,  not  stirring,  which  is  needed 
throughout  the  process. 

Cake  Baked  in  Paper. — If  there  is  danger  that  cake  will  rise  above  the  top  of 
a  pan  and  run  out,  or  if  you  have  a  large  cake 
and  the  pan  is  too  small  to  hold  it,  the  cake 
can  be  baked  in  paper  as  shown  in  the  accom- 
panying engraving.  Make  the  paper  case  out 
of  thick  glazed  paper,  coat  it  thickly  with  but- 
ter, put  in  the  cake,  and  the  paper  will  not 
burn  in  a  moderate  oven. 

The  Oven  and  Baking. — While  cake  is  being 
made  there  should  be  no  other  cooking  done 
on  the  stove,  for  as  success  depends  very  much 
on  the  baking,  the  cake  maker  should  con- 
stantly watch  and  have  absolute  control  of  the 
fire.  Make  the  fire  the  first  thing,  and  while 
the  oven  is  heating  mix  and  prepare  the  cakes. 

In  the  absence  of  a  thermometer,  a  few 
rules  are  here  given  for  testing  the  heat  of  the  cake  bakeiTTn  paper. 

oven,  but  as  every  stove  or  range  bakes  a  little 
differently  from  others,  the  cook  must  learn  by  practice  the  proper  heat  required 
for  different  kinds  of  cake.  (1)  Put  white  writing  paper  in  the  oven,  and  if  it 
turns  to  a  dark  yellow  color —not  brown—  in  5  minutes,  the  oven  is  of  the  right  tem- 
perature for  most  cakes.  (2)  Place  a  little  flour  on  a  tin  plate,  and  set  it  in  the 
oven;  if  it  turns  a  dark  yellow  in  5  minutes,  the  heat  is  right.  (3)  Hold  the  hand 
in  the  oven  and  count  12.    If  you  cannot  do  this  the  oven  is  too  hot. 

Cake  Pans. — Layer  cakes  are  baked  in  thin  cakes  in  tins  made  for  the  purpose, 
sometimes  called  jelly-cake  tins.  Loaf  cakes  are  baked  in  deep  bread  tins,  or 
hoops  and  large  pans  made  for  the  purpose.  Flat  loaves  are  usually  baked  in  the 
old-fashioned  brick  shaped  tins  and  are  1  or  2  inches  in  thickness. 

The  cake  pans  (with  a  few  exceptions  found  among  the  recipes)  should  be 
well  buttered,  and  clean,  thick  manilla  or  heavy  writing  paper  fitted  to  the  bot- 
toms of  the  pans,  and  for  rich  fruit  or  wedding  cakes,  which  require  baking  for 
hours,  3  or  4  thicknesses  will  be  a  safe-guard  against  burning  the  bottoms  of  the 
cakes.    It  is  not  necessary  to  line  the  sides    and  ends  of  the  pans  if  they  are 


238  CAKES. 

well  buttered;  a  knife  slipped  around  the  cake  will  easily  detach  it.  In  baking 
layer  cakes  the  pans  are  not  usually  papered  to  prevent  them  from  sticking, 
but  when  paper  is  not  used  butter  the  pans  well,  throw  in  a  handful  of  flour  and 
shake  it  well  over  the  inside  of  the  pan;  then  drop  it,  bottom  side  upward,  to  re- 
move all  the  flour  which  does  not  adhere  to  the  butter.  If  layer  cakes  do  not 
easily  remove  from  the  pans,  leave  them  for  a  few  moments  bottom  side  upwards, 
turned  on  a  cloth,  and  the  steam  from  the  cakes  will  soon  cause  them  to  drop. 
If  buttered  paper  is  used  put  it  in  buttered  side  up,  and  let  it  overlap  the  sides 
about  1  inch  to  assist  in  lifting  out  the  cake. 

If  a  cake  pan  with  a  tube  in  the  center  is  used  the  cake  will  bake  more  evenly. 
Many  substitutes  are  devised  by  those  who  are  without  such  pans,  such  as  a 
lamp-chimney,  glass  bottle  or  paper  tube.  They  should  be  greased,  and  placed 
in  the  center  of  the  pan  before  the  batter  is  poured  in.  Something  weighted 
down  is  best,  like  a  tumbler  or  bottle  filled  with  sand. 

Small  cakes  require  a  quick  oven  when  they  are  first  put  in,  to  make  them 
rise,  but  the  heat  should  not  be  increased  after  they  have  begun  to  bake.  Large 
cakes  should  be  put  into  a  more  moderate  oven  in  order  that  they  may  be  well 
done  in  the  middle  before  they  are  over-done  on  the  outside.  Cake  will  not  be 
light  if  the  oven  is  too  cold  at  first,  or  if  it  is  too  hot  and  bakes  the  cake  too 
quickly.  The  oven  is  too  hot  if  it  browns  the  cake  before  it  rises.  Cake  should 
first  rise  at  the  edge,  then  the  middle  should  come  up,  crack  a  little,  then  settle 
back  and  the  cracks  close.  Too  much  flour  has  been  used  if  it  rises  in  the  center 
the  most,  cracks,  and  remains  up.  Most  loaf  cakes  require  an  oven  about  the 
same  as  bread,  but  layer  cakes  are  best  staked  quickly  and  need  a  brisk  fire.  For 
all  cake  the  temperature  should  be  even.  For  this  reason  avoid  stirring  the  fire 
or  crowding  on  heat  during  the  process  of  baking,  and  if  the  fire  is  replenished 
add  little  fuel  at  a  time  to  keep  the  heat  uniform. 

If  the  oven  bakes  too  rapidly  on  the  bottom,  an  inverted  dripping-pan  may  be 
placed  in  it,  or  if  required  the  bottom  of  the  oven  can  be  covered  with  hard-baked 
bricks.  If  it  bakes  too  rapidly  at  the  top,  placing  a  thin  hard- wood  board,  or  a 
thick  piece  of  paste-board  on  the  top  grate,  over  the  cakes,  is  much  better  than 
covering  the  cakes  with  paper,  which  is  likely  to  interfere  with  the  crust  as  the 
cake  rises.  A  dish  of  hot  water  in  the  hottest  corner  of  the  oven  prevents  the 
cake  from  scorching.  Open  the  oven  as  little  as  possible,  and  do  not  let  a  draft 
of  cold  air  strike  the  cakes  or  they  will  fall,  and  do  not  move  them  till  they  "set" 
or  brown  a  little  on  top. 

Thin  cakes  (flat  loaves)  may  be  turned  in  the  oven  if  necessary,  after  baking 
10  minutes;  thick  loaves  of  rich  cake  should  not  be  moved  in  less  than  20  or  30 
minutes,  and  then  the  turning  should  be  very  gently  done  or  they  may  be  heavy 
in  the  center.  The  old  "test"  for  cake  was  to  insert  a  piece  of  clean  broom-straw 
or  a  fine  knitting-needle  free  from  rust,  and  if  the  cake  was  done  it  would  come 
out  free  from  dough;  another  test  is  to  hold  the  cake  to  the  ear  and  listen  closely; 
if  done  it  will  be  silent;  if  there  is  the  least  noise  return  it  at  once  to  the  oven. 
Another  sign  is  its  settling  down  a  little  and  shrinking  from  the  pan. 

Do  not  take  cakes  out  of  the  oven  too  soon.  Let  delicate  cakes  cool  a  little  in 
the  pans  as  they  are  apt  to  fall  if  taken  out  of  them  hot,  but  do  not  let  cakes  stay 
in  the  pans  till  moist.  Let  the  air  circulate  around  cakes  freely  to  cool  them, 
and  have  them  thoroughly  Cold  before  putting  them  away.  Keep  them  in  a  tin 
box  or  stone  jar  tightly  closed.  Any  cake  made  with  yeast  is  best  eaten  quite 
fresh.  Cakes  which  are  to  be  long  kept,  like  wedding,  black  and  fruit  cakes,  can 
be  wrappnd  in  waxed  paper  to  advantage.  Any  cake  can  have  powdered  sugar 
dusted  on  it  while  warm;  if  it  melts,  more  can  be  added  after  it  cools. 
Use  a  warm  knife  if  you  cut  cake  while  it  is  warm. 

Gingerbread. — Mix  soft  gingerbreads  as  soft  as  they  can  be  handled,  and 
keep  the  molding-board  well  floured  to  prevent  the  dough  from  sticking.  Use 
New  Orleans  molasses  as  we  explained  for  other  cake.  Watch  the  oven  closely, 
as  molasses  cakes  burn  more  easily  than  others.  If  before  rolling  out  the  dough 
it  getS'too  stiff,  set  it  before  the  fire.  Lemon  or  orange  flavor  can  be  added  when 
desired,  and  many  think  it  an  improvement,  and  the  same  with  raisins,  fruit,  etc. 
Ginger  can  be  replaced  by  other  spices  like  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  by  those  who 
prefer  their  flayor  to  ginger.  Yolks  of  eggs  improve  gingerbread  even  when  not 
prescribed  in  the  recipe;  and  yolks  left  from  other  cooking  can  be  worked  into  gin- 
gerbread to  advantage;  2  yolks  equal  1  egg,  and  can  be  so  used  for  this  purpose. 


CAKES.  239 

EXTRACTS    AND   FLAVORINGS. 

These  are  often  adulterated.  Many  of  them  can  be  easily  and  successfully 
made  at  home,  and  much  cheaper  than  to  buy  them,  while  their  purity  will  then 
be  assured.  In  making  extracts  use  deodorized  alcohol  always.  If  the  oils  used 
are  not  pure  and  fresh  they  will  spoil  the  extract  by  giving  it  a  turpentine  taste. 
If  a  little  extract  is  dropped  on  anything  after  it  is  baked;  less  will  be  needed, 
because  heat  partially  destroys  the  flavor.  It  is  therefore  better  not  to  add 
extracts  to  anything  while  hot. 

Essence  of  Allspice. — Add  to  a  wine-glass  of  strong  spirits,  1  drachm  of  the 
oil  of  allspice.    This  is  used,  2  or  3  drops  at  a  time,  for  puddings,  soups,  etc. 

Almond. — Crush  1  cup  of  the  kernels  of  peach  stone,  and  soak  them  in  2  cups 
alcohol.  In  using,  allow  1  teaspoon  of  the  extract  for  1  quart  of  cake  dough  or 
custard.    The  flavor  is  very  much  like  almonds. 

Bedford  Flavoring. — Put  into  a  bottle  3  drops  of  peppermint,  the  same  of  oil 
of  rose,  and  %  CUP  deodorized  alcohol;  shake  well,  and  keep  corked. 

Essence  of  Celery. — Soak  for  12  or  14  days  %  oz-  °f  celery  seeds  in  34  pint  of 
brandy.    A  few  drops  will  flavor  a  pint  of  soup  equal  to  a  head  of  celery. 

Cherry  and  Plum. — The  kernels  of  cherry  and  plum  stones,  steeped  in  brandy, 
make  a  nice  flavoring  liquid  for  tarts,  etc. 

Citronelle. — Take  the  grated  rind  of  1  orange  and  1  lemon  peel,  rub  them  to  a 
pulp,  and  add  34  °f  a  nutmeg  grated;  add  1  cup  water  and  6  whole  cloves,  and 
gently  boil  2  or  3  minutes,-  then  strain,  and  add  1  cup  sugar,  and  boil  to  a  thin 
syrup;  keep  it  in  a  bottle. 

Coffee. — Infuse  34  ft>-  °f  the  best  ground  and  roasted  coffee,  in  1  pint  alcohol. 

Curacoa. — This  is  nothing  but  a  tincture  of  the  Curacoa  orange  peel,  sweet- 
ened and  flavored  with  essential  oils.  Orange  juice  can  be  used  in  its  place  for 
flavorings,  or  orange  essence,  tinctured  with  cinnamon,  mace  or  cloves. 

Laurel  Flavoring. — Take  an  earthen  bowl,  and  break  into  it  7  or  8  bay  leaves, 
and  add  4  cloves  and  %  of  a  nutmeg  grated;  then  add  %  cup  of  water  and  steep 
for  a  few  minutes  on  the  stove  in  a  basin  of  hot  water,  and  covered  with  a  saucer; 
now  strain,  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  when  cold  add  %  CUP  deodorized 
alcohol.    Keep  bottled  for  use. 

Lemon. — Put  lemon  peel  cut  into  small  pieces  into  a  bottle,  add  alcohol 
enough  to  cover  it,  cork,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  5  or  6  days,  until  the  alcohol 
extracts  the  essential  oil  from  the  rind.  It  can  be  strengthened  by  adding  oil  of 
lemon,  (about  %  oz.  to  an  8  oz.  bottle)  or  weakened  by  adding  more  alcohol.  It 
is  easily  made,  cheap  and  good. 

Orange  extract  is  made  in  the  same  way  as  the  lemon. 

Maraschino.— This  when  genuine  is  made  from  the  kernel  of  the  Marasca 
cherry,  which  is  grown  only  in  Dalmatia.  It  is  often  made  from  the  oil  of  bitter 
almonds,  blended  with  oils  of  cinnamon,  rosewater,  etc.  A  similar  flavor  can  be 
made  as  follows:  Infuse  %  lb.  of  kernels  of  cherries  (bruised),  in  1  quart  of 
alcohol  for  6  days;  add  1  drachm  of  oil  of  maraschino,  and  1  lb.  of  white  sugar, 
made  into  a  syrup  by  boiling  it  in  %  quart  of  water  down  to  a  pint;  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  bottle  for  use.    Make  ~%  or  /4  *ne  quantity  if  desired. 

Noyau.—  This  is  made  from  white  brandy  and  bruised  bitter  almonds.  It 
contains  a  large  proportion  of  prussic  acid  derived  from  the  bitter  almonds.  The 
best  comes  from  Martinique,  but  it  is  expensive  and  often  imitated.  Infuse  some 
fresh  youngpeach  leaves  in  whisky.for  a  couple  of  days;  then  strain  the  infusion 
and  mix  with  clarified  syrup  when  cold.  With  age  it  will  nearly  equal  the 
genuine.  Another  recipe  for  making  it  is  to  blanch  and  pound  2  oz.  bitter  and  1 
oz.  sweet  almonds,  and  also  add  and  pound  1  lb.  white  sugar;  boil  lcup  new  milk, 
and  when  cold  mix  that  in,  together  with  the  rinds  of  3  lemons,  1  quart  of  whisky, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  clarified  honey;  let  stand  10  days,  shaking  every  day;  then 
filter  through  filtering  paper  and  put  in  small  bottles  for  use,  sealing  the  corks. 

Ratafias. — This  is  the  name  given  to  spirituous  liquors  flavored  with  the 
kernels  of  various  fruits,  such  as  peaches,  cherries,  apricots,  etc.,  used  as  flavor- 
ing for  sweet  dishes.  Although  delicious  when  used  sparingly,  they  are  un- 
pleasant or  even  poisonous  if  used  to  excess.  Peach  or  apricot  leaves  infused  in 
alcohol  can  be  used  instead  of  ratafia  for  flavoring  puddings.  The  ratafia  cakes 
are  flavored  with  almonds. 

Cherry  Ratafia. — Take  1  lb.  Morella  cherries  with  the  kernels  bruised,  1 
pint  proof  spirits,  345)*  sugar;  let  it  soak  2  weeks,  and  strain  through  flannel 


240  CAKES. 

Currant  Ratafia. — Take  3^  cup  black  currant  juice,  2  grains  cinnamon,  2 
grains  cloves,  2  grains  peach  kernels,  1  pint  brandy,  G  oz.  white  sugar;  let  stand  2 
weeks,  and  strain  through  flannel. 

Rose  Extract. — Let  rose  leaves  soak  in  alcohol  till  the  essential  oil  is  extracted 
(about  a  week);  then  strain,  and  add  about  %  drachm  of  otto  of  roses  to  1  pint  of 
the  extract. 

Tea  Flavoring. — Take  about  4  teaspoons  of  the  best  black  tea,  crush  it  and 
put  it  into  a  bowl  (it  is  a  good  plan  to  mix  2  or  3  different  kinds);  pour  on  about 
%  cup  of  freshly  boiled  water,  and  boiling  hot;  cover  it  with  a  saucer,  and  let  it 
steep  10  or  12  minutes;  then  strain  through  cloth  and  use. 

Vanilla.—  Cut  up  5  or  6  vanilla  beans,  pods  and  all,  put  them  in  a  pint  bottle, 
fill  with  alcohol,  and  in  a  few  days  the  alcohol  will  extract  the  essential  oil. 
Equal  parts  of  vanilla  and  tonka  beans  can  be  used,  and  a  very  good  flavoring 
extract  produced.  The  tonka  beans  should  be  soaked  in  warm  water  till  the  skin 
can  be  rubbed  off,  and  then  both  should  be  cut  in  small  pieces.  (For  information 
about  vanilla  beans  see  "Marketing.") 

Vanilla  sugar  is  prepared  by  cutting  up  the  pods,  putting  them  in  a  mortar 
with  10  or  12  times  as  much  sugar,  and  pounding  fine;  then  pass  it  through  a  fine 
sieve,  pound  again  if  necessary,  and  keep  in  a  bottle  tightly  corked.  Or  the 
beans  can  be  cut  up,  put  in  a  jar,  covered  with  the  sugar,  and  covered  tightly. 
Use  the  sugar  as  needed,  adding  more  as  long  as  the  beans  flavor  it. 

Syrup  of  vanilla  is  simple  syrup  flavored  with  essence  of  vanilla. 

Rose  water  can  be  prepared  by  putting  a  large  pinch  of  carbonate  of  mag- 
nesia, and  4  drops  of  kissaulik  otto  of  rose  into  2  pints  of  pure  water;  then  filter 
through  fine  muslin  or  filter  paper.  If  the  otto  is  good  it  will  make  a  fine  rose 
water,  and  will  keep  indefinitely. 

Orange  flower  water  can  be  prepared  the  same  way,  using  4  drops  of  oil  of 
neroli  Bigarade,  instead  of  the  otto  of  rose. 

To  Grate  Lemon  Peel. — Lemon  peel  gives  a  different  flavor  from  any  extract. 
There  is  a  right  and  wrong  way  to  grate  it.  The  flavor  comes  from  an  essential 
oil  found  only  in  the  yellow  rind  at  the  surface.  The  white  part  underneath  is 
bitter,  contains  no  lemon  flavor,  will  curdle  milk  or  cream,  and  is  objectionable. 
Therefore  grate  a  lemon  carefully,  aiming  to  remove  all  the  yellow  surface,  but 
no  more.  Begin  at  the  end,  turn  the  lemon  round  as  it  is  grated,  and  work 
evenly,  and  it  can  be  easily  and  smoothly  done.  This  gives  the  zest  as  it  is  called. 

Orange  peel  can  be  grated  the  same  way.  Either  can  be  used  for  sherbets, 
cakes,  puddings,  etc.  They  can  be  kept  on  hand  for  use  by  mixing  them  with 
powdered  sugar,  (use  4  parts  sugar  to  1  part  grated  peel)  and  keep  in  tightly 
corked  bottles. 

COOKING  IN  HIGH  ALTITUDES. 

In  all  high  altitudes  the  rule  is  to  use  less  butter  and  sugar,  and  more  flour  and 
eggs.  If  too  much  butter  is  used  in  such  regions  the  cake  will  fall, .  so  that  very 
rich  cakes  cannot  be  made  there.  The  greater  the  elevation  the  more  difficulty  is 
experienced.  Cakes  having  no  butter,  like  sponge  cake,  are  easily  made  in  high 
altitudes.  (See  also  our  "Denver  Cake.")  The  filling  for  layer  cakes  can  be  made 
quite  rich  in  such  regions,  if  desired. 

The  reason  for  the  foregoing  rule  appears  to  be  this:  The  object  in  beating  eggs  is  to  fill 
them  with  air,  which  the  tenacious  albumen  of  the  egg  holds,  and  carries  into  the  cake, 
but  in  high  altitudes  the  air  thus  incorporated  is  much  lighter  than  at  sea  level,  and  the 
cake  will  fall  unless  it  is  "held  up,"  so  to  speak,  by  a  stiff  batter;  hence  theruleisto"Double 
the  flour,  or  divide  the  egg,  and  use  less  butter."  It  is  found  in  these  regions  that  powdered 
sugar  works  better  than  granulated.  This  rare  atmosphere  is  very  dry,  and  quickly  dries 
cake  and  bread.  These  should  be  kept  in  a  close  box,  in  which  vessels  of  water  are  placed 
to  keep  the  air  moist.  Owing  to  this  dryness  of  the  air,  however,  meats  will  keep  much 
longer  than  in  damper  climates.  The  effect  of  light  air  on  boiling  water  we  spoke  of  in  ex- 
plaining about  boiling  meat.  It  is  difficult  to  cook  anything  by  boiling  at  all,  above  what 
is  known  as  the  "timber  line."  Eggs  must  be  boiled  10  minutes  to  even  be  "soft"  on  Pike's 
Peak. 

LAYER    CAKES. 

Let  layer  cakes  cool  on  some  flat  surface,  like  an  inverted  jelly-tin,  rather  than 
on  an  uneven  surface  like  a  plate.  An  inverted  jelly-tin  also  makes  a  good  base 
on  which  to  build  up  a  jelly  cake,  and  it  should  be  left  there  till  cold.  Those  with 


CAKES.  241 

a  little  experience  can  vary  the  fillings  for  jelly  cakes,  and  make  many  attractive 
combinations,  but  the  novice  will  best  adhere  to  her  recipes  closely. 

FILLINGS. 

Apple  Filling.— Cook  2  large  apples  until  soft;  then  add  lcup  sugar,  the  well- 
beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon;  cook  all  about  5 
minutes,  and  spread  between  the  layers  while  warm. 

Banana  Filling. —Mash  6  bananas,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  3  tablespoons 
of  sugar — more  if  liked. 

Caramel  Filling. — Take  %  cup  sweet  milk,  1%  cups  light  brown  sugar,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Stir  frequently  and  cook  until  it  strings.  When  cool,  add  va- 
nilla or  other  flavoring. 

Chocolate  Filling. — Take  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  1%  cups  of  powdered  or  con- 
fectioner's sugar,  put  in  a  pail  and  set  pail  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  put  a  few 
drops  of  water  on  the  sugar  so  it  will  melt.  Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
add  to  the  boiling  sugar,  and  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Add  about  3  table- 
spoons of  grated  sweet  chocolate,  and  vanilla  to  taste.  When  nearly  cool,  spread 
between  layers,  and  on  the  top  and  sides. 

Cream  Filling. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk;  1  small  cup  of  sugar;  put  it  over  the 
fire,  in  a  double  boiler,  or  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  just  before  it  boils 
add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  of  corn-starch  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  milk;  stir  until  it  thickens.  When  cool,  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon. 

Whipped  Cream  Filling. — Whip  1  cup  sweet  cream  to  a  stiff  froth;  sweeten 
and  flavor  to  taste,  and  spread  on.  The  cream  will  froth  easier  if  put  on  ice  % 
hour  before  whipping. 

Cream  Chocolate  Filling. — Take  1%  cups  of.  confectioner's  sugar  and  just 
enough  sweet  cream  to  moisten;  mix  well,  set  the  vessel  containing  it  in  a  kettle 
of  hot  water  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point;  then  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  also  enough  grated  chocolate  to  give  a  light  or  dark  color, 
as  desired.  Beat  until  cool  and  stiff;  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  spread  be- 
tween and  on  the  top  of  layer  cakes. 

Custard  Filling.— Use  2  cups  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  small  cup  corn -starch, 
a  small  piece  of  butter;  boil  it  and  have  it  slightly  cool  before  using  it. 

Fig  Filling. — Use  3  scant  cups  pulverized  sugar,  %  cup  water,  whites  of  3  eggs 
well  beaten,  1  lb.  sliced  figs,  juice  of  %  lemon,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  the  sugar 
in  the  %,  CUP  °f  water  until  it  will  hair  6  inches  from  the  spoon  from  which  it 
drops;  turn  this  over  the  beaten  egg  whites,  and  beat  until  it  looks  as  if  it  would 
harden;  then  turn  %  of  it  over  the  figs,  to  which  the  lemon  juice  has  been  added; 
put  this  fig  filling  between  the  layers  and  frost  the  cake  with  the  reserved  frost- 
ing, after  flavoring  it  with  the  vanilla.    Can  be  used  in  any  good  layer  cake. 

Hickory-nut  Filling. — Use  1  cup  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  corn- 
starch. Let  the  milk  come  to  the  boiling  point,  and  add  the  sugar;  then  mix  the 
corn-starch  in  a  little  water,  add  to  the  egg,  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk; 
cook  till  done  and  stir  in  1  cup  hickory-nuts  chopped  fine,  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Icing  Filling. — Put  a  little  water  on  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar — just  enough 
to  dissolve  it;  let  it  boil  until  it  threads  from  a  spoon;  pour  it  slowly  on  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  beating  all  the  time  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  the 
cake;  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  or  flavor  with  orange  juice  and  grated  rind,  and 
spread  on  thick  as  filling  for  a  layer  cake. 

Lemon  Filling.— Use  1  lemon  (juice  and  grated  rind),  1  egg,  %  cup  sugar,  1 
16 


242  CAKES. 

tablespoon  of  water,  butter  size  of  walnut.    Beat  all  together,  set  on  stove  and  let 
boil  up  a  minute. 

Lemon  Honey  Filling.— Use  1  Tb.  loaf  sugar,  2  whole  eggs,  yolks  of  8  eggs,  J^  lb. 
butter,  juice  of  6  lemons,  grated  rind  of  2  lemons.  Put  the  sugar,  lemon  and  but- 
ter into  a  sauce-pan,  and  melt  over  a  gentle  fire;  when  all  is  dissolved  stir  in  the 
eggs  which  have  been  well  beaten;  stir  rapidly  until  it  is  as  thick  as  honey. 
Spread  this  between  the  layers  of  cake.  Set  aside  the  remainder  in  a  closely 
covered  vessel  for  future  use. 

Maple  Filling. — Take  1  cup  maple  sugar,  1  cup  white  sugar  and  J£  cup  of 
water;  boil  until  it  will  form  in  stiff  drops  when  dropped  into  cold  water;  cool 
until  slightly  warm,  and  add  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  put  between  the 
layers  of  a  cake. 

Orange  Filling. — Use  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  1  orange  made  thick  with  pulverized  sugar;  beat  together,  and  spread  between 
layers  of  cake. 

Orange  Filling  No.  2. — One  cup  sugar  wet  with  3  tablespoons  of  orange  juice 
(enough  drops  from  the  oranges  as  you  slice  them,  if  not,  use  water);  1  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Simmer  this  on  the  stove  until  a  nice  syrup,  and  when  boiling  add 
2  beaten  eggs;  remove  from  stove  and  stir  briskly.  When  cold  add  orange  or 
lemon  flavor  and  the  sliced  fruit,  and  spread  between  the  layers. 

Peach  or  Fruit  Cream  Filling.— Cut  peaches  into  thin  slices,  or  chop  them,  and 
prepare  cream  by  whipping  and  sweetening.  Put  a  layer  of  peaches  between  the 
layers  of  cake,  and  pour  the  cream  over  each  layer  and  over  the  top.  Bananas, 
strawberries  and  other  fruit  may  be  used  the  same  way,  mashing  the  strawber- 
ries when  used,  and  strewing  them  thick  with  powdered  sugar. 

Dried  Fruit  Filling. — To  4  cups  of  the  best  evaporated  apples  take  3  cups  of 
nice  dried  raspberries  and  let  them  cook  slowly  for  3  or  4  hours;  then  work 
through  the  colander  and  add  2  cups  of  sugar  (or  more,  if  preferred)  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.    This  is  nice  for  layer  cake,  short  cake,  and  with  meats. 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  of  butter.  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

4  cups  flour.  3  eggs.  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers  as  for  jelly  cake.  Instead  of  jelly  use  for  filling  1  coffee-cup  of 
thick  sour  jam,  1  teaspoon  extract  of  vanilla,  1  lb.  of  almonds,  blanched  and 
chopped  fine;  sugar  to  taste  or  make  sweet. 

APPLE  JELLY  CAKE. 

1  egg.  1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  sweet  milk,  butter  the 

2  cups  flour.  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.       size  of  an  egg. 

Bake  in  layers,  and  use  the  apple  filling  given  among  the  previous  fillings. 

AGNES'  LAYER  CAKE. 

M  cup  butter.  Not  quite  1  cup  of  white  sugar.       Whites  of  3  eggs. 

Vz  cup  sweet  milk.  XA  teaspoon  of  soda.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

WHITE  PART. 

2  eggs.  %  cup  melted  butter,  1  cup  powdered  sugar. 

%  cup  milk.  2  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

DARK  PART. 

y2  cake  Baker's  chocolate  (grated).  V2  cup  milk.  M  cup  sugar. 

Put  on  the  stove  and  boil.  Add  yolk  of  1  egg  and  mix  with  the  white  parts, 
Bake  in  3  layers  and  put  together  with  soft  icing. 


CAKES.  243 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE  NO.  3. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar.  4  eggs.  K  cup  butter. 

54  cup  sweet  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.       2  cups  flour  (well  filled). 

Divide  into  3  parts  and  bake  2  layers  as  mixed.  Into  the  third  part  mix  % 
cup  grated  chocolate;  beat  the  white  of  1  egg;  boil  1  cup  sugar  and  3  spoonfuls 
of  water  until  it  ropes;  beat  all  this  white  into  the  cake,  and  add  a  cup  of  grated 
chocolate  (or  less,  if  liked).  Ice  each  layer,  putting  the  dark  layer  in  the  center. 
Splendid. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE  NO.  3. 

1  cup  sugar.  54  cup  sweet  milk.  2  eggs. 

Y%  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour.  V-A  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers. 

Chocolate  Cream  for  Filling. -Take  %  cup  milk,  yolk  of  1  egg,  %  cup  choco- 
late, 1  teaspoon  vanilla,  sweeten  to  taste.  Boil  until  thick  as  jelly.  Spread  be- 
tween layers  when  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL  CAKE. 

2  cups  pulverized  sugar.  XA  cup  of  chocolate  stirred       2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  cup  melted  butter.  with  butter  and  sugar. 

4  eggs.  3  cups  flour. 

Flavor  with  vanilla  and  lemon  together.    Bake  in  4  layers. 

Filling. — Four  cups  pulverized  sugar — boil  till  brittle;  4  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  whites  and  beat  all  until  cold;  add  1  teaspoon 
tartaric  acid.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  lemon.  Spread  between  the  layers  % 
inch  thick,  and  put  enough  chocolate  in  the  frosting  used  for  the  top  to  color  it. 

COCOANUT    CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  1  cup  sweet  milk.  Whites  of  10  eggs. 

2  cups  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream.       3LA  cups  flour.  2lA  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers. 

Filling.— The  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  sugar  enough  added  to  keep  it 
from  running.  Spread  it  on  the  layers,  and  sprinkle  cocoanut  between,  and  on 
top  of  the  cake. 

COCOANUT  CAKE  NO.  3. 

Whites  of  6  eggs.  Vz  cup  of  water.  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

V-A  cups  of  sugar.  Vz  cup  of  corn-starch.        rA  teaspoon  of  soda. 

VA  cup  of  butter.  VA  cups  of  flour. 

Bake  in  layer  tins.    Then  take  the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  beat  to  a  froth  with 

6  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  a  cup  of  grated  cocoanut.    Use  it  for  frosting  also. 

CKEAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  VA  cups  flour.  2  small  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

3  eggs.  3  tablespoons  of  water. 

Bake  in  4  jelly  tins,  and  when  done  spread  the  layers  with  the  cream  filling 
given  among  our  fillings.  Do  not  spread  on  the  filling  till  the  cake  is  cold.  If 
preferred  it  can  be  baked  in  2  ordinary  pie-tins,  and  split  open  while  it  is 
warm. 

BEATEN    CREAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  %  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

M  cup  butter.  3  -whites  of  eggs.  2lA  cups  flour. 

Bake  in  3  layers,  and  put  together  with  thick  sweet  cream  beaten  with  a  little 
pulverized  sugar. 

CHEAP  CREAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  cups  flour.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  egg.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Flavor  to  suit  the  taste,  and  bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — One  egg;  %  cup  sugar;  %  cup  of  flour,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk. 


244  CAKES. 

and  stirred  into  1  cup  of  boiling  milk;  boil  until  thick,  and  flavor  to  taste.  Sprinkle 
the  top  of  the  cake  well  with  sugar. 

SOUK  CREAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  scant  teaspoon  soda.  A  little  salt. 

2  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

Break  2  eggs  in  a  teacup,  fill  it  with  sour  cream,  and  then  stir  all  the  above 
ingredients  well  together  and  bake  in  3  layers. 

Filling. — Use  1  cup  thick  sour  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  prepared  cocoanut. 
Mix  well  and  spread  on  each  layer  and  on  top.  If  desired,  sprinkle  dry  cocoanut 
on  with  it,  as  it  looks  nicer  on  top. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

3  cups  flour.  2  cups  boiling -water.  A  pinch  of  salt. 
1  cup  butter.                                    5  eggs. 

Mix  the  flour,  butter  and  salt,  pour  in  the  boiling  water,  beat  lightly,  and  put 
on  the  stove  in  a  rice  boiler;  cook  until  it  becomes  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Then  take  it  from  the  stove,  let  it  cool,  and  then  break  in  the  eggs,  1  at  a  time. 
Drop  on  a  buttered  dripping-pan  or  gem  irons,  and  bake.  Have  the  puffs  baked 
just  before  serving  time,  and  use  the  custard  filling  given  among  our  fillings,  hav- 
ing it  slightly  cool  before  putting  it  in  the  puffs. 

CUSTARD  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  cold  water,  Wz  cups  flour. 

3  eggs,  beaten  separate,  added  to  the  beaten  -whites.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Flavor  to  taste. 

Stir  and  beat  till  smooth.    Bake  in  2  tins  in  a  hot  oven,  split  when  hot,  and 

spread  with  custard.    Excellent  and  not  expensive. 

DENVER  CAKE. 

Vz  cup  butter.  3  cups  sifted  flour.  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Wz  cups  sugar.  6  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

First  beat  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  then  add  the  yolks,  then  the  milk;  next 

the  flour  with  the  baking  powder  sifted  into  it,  and  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 

froth  last.    This  cake  must  be  well  beaten.    It  will  make  5  layers.  This  cake  can 

be  made  in  the  mountains.     Use  any  filling  desired. 

ECONOMICAL,  LAYER  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  tablespoon  corn-starch,  made  smooth  in  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

M  cup  of  butter.  2  cups  flour.  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  thin  sheets.    Use  cream,  cocoanut,  jelly  or  any  filling  desired. 

FIG  EATER  CAKE. 

1  large  cup  sugar.  2  cups  flour  (sifted).  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract. 

Vz  cup  milk.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Vz  cup  butter.  4  large  or  5  small  eggs. 

Bake  in  4  layers.    When  cold  spread  on  the  following  filling. 
Fig  Filling. — Use  %  pound  chopped  figs,  %  cup  of  hot  water,  1  small  cup  pow- 
dered sugar;  cook  till  soft. 

IROQUOIS  CAKE. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar.  VA  cups  flour.  Lemon  flavoring. 

M  cup  butter.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  (scant). 

Vz  cup  milk.  "Whites  of  3  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  bake  in  2  tins. 
Fill  with  our  icing  filling. 

JEIXY  CAKE. 

3  eggs.  Vz  cup  butter  2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sugar.  Vz  cup  of  milk.  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Icing. — Whites  of  2  eggs,  add  sugar  until  thick,  %  cup  flour,  %  teaspoon  of  tar- 
taric acid,  flavor  with  lemon. 


CAKES.  245 

JELLY  CAKE  NO.  2. 

1  cup  of  sugar.  1  cup  of  flour.  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

3  eggs.  1  tablespoon  of  butter.    XA  teaspoon  of  soda  in  Vz  cup  of  milk. 

Bake  in  layers  (6  layers  is  good)  and  spread  jelly  between  each  layer. 

ROCHESTER  JELLY  CAKE. 

LIGHT   PART. 

2  cups  white  sugar.  1  cup  sweet  milk.  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  butter.  6  whites  of  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  lemon.    Bake  in  3  layers. 

DARK    PART. 

i  cup  brown  sugar.    1  lb.  seeded  raisins.  2  cups  flour. 

V«  cup  molasses.         U  lb.  citron,  chopped  fine.  A  little  nutmeg  and  lemon  extract. 

lA  cup  butter.  lA  teaspoon  cloves.  yA  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  V*  cup  coffee. 

1  egg.  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Bake  in  2  layers.    Spread  jelly  between  the  layers,  using  light  and  dark  parts 

alternately.    Frost  the  top. 

ORIENTAL  CAKE. 

WHITE  AND  PINK  LAYERS. 

1  cup  fine  granulated  sugar.  Ys  cup  butter.  XA  cup  corn-starch. 

lA  cup  milk.  VA  cups  flour.  Whites  of  3  eggs. 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  cream,  add  milk  and  corn-starch,  first  stirring  them 

together,  then  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  and  last  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten 

light.    Divide  the  mixture  in  two,  and  into  %  put  as  much  pink  coloring  as  you 

like,  the  object  being  to  form  different  colored  layers. 

YELLOW  AND  BROWN  PARTS. 

Vi  cup  butter.  1  cup  sugar.  1  whole  egg. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  beaten  light.  14  cup  sweet  milk.  \%  cups  flour. 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

After  mixing  divide  into  2  parts,  and  to  1  part  add:  1  oz.  grated  chocolate,  1 
tablespoon  of  water,  3  teaspoons  of  sugar  and  %  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  which  should 
be  stirred  until  smooth  over  a  hot  fire.  Bake  all  the  layers  in  jelly-pans  in  a  mod- 
erate oven — it  should  bake  in  about  20  minutes. 

For  filling  use  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  and  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  light. 
Use  the  brown  cake  for  the  bottom  layer,  sjpread  over  it  a  thin  coating  of  the  fill- 
ing and  cover  with  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  figs  placed  close  together;  next  the 
yellow  cake  with  icing  and  sliced  oranges  free  from  seeds  and  rind;  next,  whites 
with  icing  and  cocoanut;  finish  with  the  pink  layer  spread  with  a  firm,  white 
icing,  decorated  with  almonds  and  candies.  It  is  best  eaten  fresh.  Thjs  makes  a 
delicious  cake.    If  desired,  you  can  leave  out  all  the  filling  except  the  icing. 

LAYER  JELLY  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar.  XA  cup  butter.  3  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  3  cups  flour.  2  small  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Makes  8  layers.    Use  any  jelly  desired  for  filling. 

ROLLED  JELLY  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  eggs.  2  tablespoons  water. 

Wz  cups  flour.  llA  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Bake  in  a  dripping  pan  in  a  quick  oven.  While  warm,  spread  with  jelly  and 
roll  it. 

1-8-3-CAKE. 

lA  cup  butter.  3  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  milk.  3  cups  flour.  Flavoring. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Filling. — Use  1  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  J^  cup  sugar,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
large  hickory-nut;  any  flavoring  desired.  Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil;  thicken  the 
egg  with  flour  and  add  to  boiling  milk.  When  off  the  fire,  stir  in  1  cup  cocoanut. 
Also  sprinkle  cocoanut  over  the  top  of  cake  when  it  is  done. 


246  CAKES. 

MINNEHAHA  CAKE. 

"Whites  of  8  eggs.  2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  of  butter. 

1  cup  of  milk.  3  cups  of  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flavor  with  lemon. 

Filling. — Use  x/2  lb.  blanched  almonds,  1  lb.  of  seeded  raisins,  chopped  fine. 

Mix  with  boiled  frosting  and  flavor  with  lemon.    Put  blanched  almonds  in  halves 

in  frosting  on  top. 

NEAPOLITAN  CAKE. 

V&  cups  powdered  sugar.  V2  cup  butter.  M  cup  sweet  milk. 

Vi  cup  corn-starch.  V-A  cups  flour.  "Whites  of  6  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Take  %  of  the  mixture  and  to  it  add  as  much  grated  chocolate  as  liked  (2  or  3 
tablespoons)  to  form  the  middle  layer;  put  a  few  raisins  in  the  layer.  Spread 
icing  and  cocoanut  over  each  layer. 

NUT  LAYER  CAKE. 

1  cup  of  sugar.  V£  cup  butter.  XA  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layer  tins. 

Filling. — Use  1  cup  of  cream  (sweet  or  sour),  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  hickory-nut 
meats.    Boil  together  until  thick. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

2  cups  of  sugar.  1  cup  of  butter.  4  eggs,  all  beaten  together. 

1  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 
3V2  cups  flour. 

The  evening  before  you  make  the  cake,  mix  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together 

and  let  stand,  especially  if  granulated  sugar  is  used.    Then  in  the  morning  beat 

up  light  and  add  other  ingredients  and  bake  in  layers  in  a  quick  oven.    Use  the 

orange  filling  giveji  among  our  fillings. 

PEACH  CAKE. 

Bake  sponge  cake  in  3  layers  as  for  jelly  cake;  take  fine  ripe  peaches,  chop 
fine  or  slice  thin;  take  cream,  whip  it,  sweeten,  and  flavor  with  vanilla  if  desired; 
put  a  layer  of  peaches  and  cream  between  the  layers  of  cake,  and  cover  the  top. 
Eat  soon  after  preparing  it. 

POLONAISE    CAKE. 

2  cups  pulverized  sugar.  1  cup  milk.  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  butter  (scant).  Whites  of  7  eggs.  1VZ  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  4  layers. 

Filling.— -Use  3  cups  pulverized  sugar  boiled  in  a  little  water  until  brittle; 
then  turn  the  hot  sugar  upon  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  stirring  until  cold. 
On  first  layer,  spread  %  K>-  macaroons  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  some  of  the 
frosting.  On  second  layer,  %  lb.  crystalized  fruit,  chopped  fine,  mix  with  some 
of  the  frosting  and  flavor  with  lemon.  Third  layer,  y2  K>-  blanched  almonds  and 
3^  lb.  citron  both  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  some  of  the  frosting,  flavored  with 

1  teaspoon  extract  of  almonds  and  1  teaspoon  of  rose  water.      Frost  the    top 
with  the  frosting  left  over,  mixed  with  a  little  crystalized  fruit. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar.  3  cups  flour.  Essence  of  lemon  or  almond. 
1  cup  sweet  milk.                              3  eggs.  Salt. 

%  cup  butter.  -  1  teaspoon  soda. 

Mix  and  divide;  put  one-half  into  pans.    To  the  other  half  add 

1  tablespoon  molasses.  %  lb.  citron  (sliced).  Grate  in  a  little  nutmeg. 

1  large  cup  raisins  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

(chopped  and  stoned).  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Make  this  also  into  2  layers  and  bake  them  all.  While  yet  warm  build  the 
layers  alternately,  with  cranberry  or  any  other  tart  jelly  between. 


CAKES.  247 

RIBBON  CAKE  NO.  S. 

6  yolks  of  eggs.  1  cup  sugar.  2  cups  flour. 

%  cup  butter.  X  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  and  divide.    Flavor  one  half  with  orange;  for  the  other  half  use  vanilla, 

and  enough  grated  chocolate  to  color  brown.    Take  enough  for  1  layer  out  of 

each  half.    Then  take 

Vz  cup  butter.  M  cup  milk.  2  cups  flour. 

lYi  cups  sugar.  5  whites  of  eggs.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  and  divide.  Flavor  one  half  with  lemon;  flavor  the  other  half  with  rose 
water,  and  with  pulverized  cochineal  color  it  pink  or  red.  Take  enough  for  1 
layer  out  of  each  half.  Then  mix  all  the  balance  of  the  batter  together  and  put 
in  any  kind  of  fruit  desired — seedless  raisins,  currants  or  citron.  Bake  in  5  lay- 
ers. Build  the  cake  while  hot,  putting  nothing  between  layers.  Have  the 
fruit  layers  alternate  with  the  brown,  white,  yellow  and  red.    Frost  top  or  not. 

STRAWBERRY  CAKE. 

Any  sponge  cake  recipe  will  do.  Make  the  sponge  cake  dough  in  very  thin  layers, 
and  bake  in  biscuit  pans.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  when  stiff  add  4  tea- 
spoons of  sugar.  Have  ready  a  dish  of  strawberries  sweetened  enough  to  take 
away  the  acid  taste,  and  spread  it  between  the  layers.  Cut  in  small  squares  and 
serve  cold. 

VANITY  CAKE. 

IVi  cups  sugar.  VA  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Vz  cup  butter.  Vz  cup  corn-starch. 

V/z  cups  sweet  milk.  Whites  of  6  eggs. 

Bake  in  2  cakes,  putting  frosting  between  and  on  top.    Excellent. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar.  1  cup  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  "Whites  of  2  eggs.  Flavor  with  almond. 

Bake  in  layers.  Grated  cocoanut  mixed  with  sugar  can  be  spread  between 
the  layers,  or  if  desired  an  icing  can  be  made  of  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  whites  of 

2  eggs,  and  enough  dissolved  chocolate  to  give  it  a  rich  dark  color. 

COCOANUT  WHITE  CAKE. 

3  eggs.  Vz  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour. 

Wz  cups  sugar.  "  Vz  cup  sweet  milk.  V/z  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  jelly  tins.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  %  cup  sugar, 
and  beat  into  it  some  finely  grated  cocoanut.  Spread  it  between  the  layers  and 
on  top  of  the  cake  and  set  aside  to  cool. 


LOAF  CAKES. 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

VA  cups  sugar.  2  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

%  cup  butter.  3  eggs. 

Vz  cup  milk.  Vz  lb.  blanched  almonds. 

Blanch  the  almonds,  split  them  lengthwise,  dry  them,  and  mix  with  the  cake. 

ANGEL'S  FOOD. 

Take  1  tumbler  of  flour  and  put  into  it  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  and  sift 
the  whole  4  times;  beat  the  whites  of  11  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  then  beat  in  1% 
tumbler's  of  pulverized  sugar,  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  then  add 
the  flour  and  beat  thoroughly  but  lightly;  bake  in  a  bright  ungreased  pan  40  to 
45  minutes.  When  done,  turn  it  over  to  cool,  placing  something  under  the  cor- 
ner of  the  pan  so  that  the  air  will  circulate  underneath  and  assist  the  cooling; 
cut  it  out  when  cool. 


248  CAKES. 

APPLE  CAKE. 

Yz  cup  of  butter.  V2  cup  sugar.  Flour  enough  to 

V2  cup  of  lard— melt  these  together.         2  eggs.  make  rather  soft. 

2Yz  cups  of  milk.  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Pare  and  slice  7  or  8  apples  and  set  them  down  into  the  tops  of  the  dough, 
close  together,  when  it  is  in  the  pan.  Sprinkle  %  cup  of  sugar  and  some  cinna- 
mon on  top  of  all.  Bake  slowly  and  when  the  apples  are  done  the  cake  is  done. 
This  makes  a  dripping  pan  full. 

APPLE  CAKE  NO.  3. 

1  pint  preserved  apples.  Yz  cup  butter.  1  nutmeg. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  soda.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

After  this  is  well  mixed  together,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  and  4  cups  flour. 

To  preserve  the  apples,  take  1  quart  of  chopped  apples  and  stew  slowly  in  1% 

cups  of  molasses  4  or  5  hours,  or  until  reduced  to  1  pint.    Bake  in  a  moderate 

oven.    Will  keep  several  weeks. 

DRIED  APPLE  CAKE. 

1  egg.  lA  cup  sugar.  Vz  cup  butter.  Yt  cup  milk. 
2Yz  cups  flour.           1  teaspoon  soda.                2  teaspoons  cream  tartar.       Spice  to  taste. 

Soak  1  cup  of  dried  apples  over  night.    In  the  morning  boil  them  1  hour  in  J^ 

cup  molasses  and  %  cup  sugar.    When  cold,  add  to  the  above  ingredients.  Cheap 

and  good. 

BANGOR  CAKE. 

3  cups  flour.  Yz.  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar. 

3  eggs.  %  cup  of  milk.  VA  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  Y2  teaspoon  each  of  vanilla  and  lemon. 

BLACK  CAKE. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  \Y%  cups  butter.  6  eggs  (beaten  separately). 

3  cups  browned  flour.  2  tablespoons  molasses.         1  tablespoon  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoon  mace  or  nutmeg.     1  teaspoon  cloves.  2  cups  sweet  milk. 

2  lbs.  raisins.  2  lbs.  currants.  Vz  lb.  citron. 

1  teaspoon  soda.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar.       Bake  3  hours. 

BREAD  CAKE. 

2  cups  dough.  2  cups  sugar.  V%  cup  butter  added  to  Vs.  cup  lard. 

1  teaspoon  soda.        IY2  cups  raisins.        2  eggs  well  beaten.  Nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

Work  the  cake  thoroughly. 

BUTTERMILK  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  teaspoon  butter.  1  egg.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  cups  flour.  1  cup  buttermilk.  Spice  to  taste.  Cheap  and  good. 

CAMERON  CAKE  (Without  Eggs). 
1  cup  sour  milk.  Y2  cup  butter.  IY2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  sifted  flour.  2  cups  chopped  raisins.  Y2  teaspoon  soda. 
Nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

CANADA  CAKE  (Without  Eggs). 
1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  sour  milk.  Y2  cup  butter. 

1  teaspoon  soda  in  the  sour  milk.         1  cup  raisins.  2Y2  cups  flour. 

CARSON  CAKE  (Without  Eggs). 

2  cups  sugar.  4  cups  flour.  1  cup  buttermilk.  Y2  cup  butter. 

2  cups  raisins.  .  1  teaspoon  soda  in  milk.  Spice  to  taste. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  milk. 

3  Ms  cups  flour.  5  eggs  (leaving  out  the  whites  of  2).        14  teaspoon  vanilla. 
2Yz  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

For  frosting  beat  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  with  sugar  enough  to  keep  it  from 

running,  and  add  %  cake  of  sweet  chocolate;  flavor  with  vanilla.      Apply  the 

frosting  while  the  cake  is  hot. 

CLOVE  CAKE. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  1  cup  shortening.  1  cup  sour  milk. 
1  cup  raisins.                                1  egg.                                                  3  cups  flour. 

V2  teaspoon  cloves.  1  teaspoon  soda.  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon. 

Yz  nutmeg.  Add  salt. 


CAKfiS. 


m 


CIDER  CAKE. 


Vz  cup  butter. 
4  cups  flour. 


3  cups  brown  sugar. 
1  cup  butter. 


1  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 


1  egg. 

1  cup  cider. 


1  cup  raisins. 


CITRON  CAKE. 

&Vz  cups  flour.  7  eggs.  2  cups  citron  (cut  fine). 

llA  cups  sweet  milk.  '     2V2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


COFFEE  CAKE. 

1  cup  molasses. 
3  eggs,  well  beaten. 
5  cups  flour. 

COLD  WATER  CAKE. 

Butter  size  of  egg. 
1  pint  flour. 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  cup  raisins  (chopped). 
Spices  to  suit  taste. 


1  cup  brown  sugar. 

1  cup  butter. 

1  cup  strong  coffee  (cold). 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  cup  cold  water. 

legg. 

Vz  cup  of  butter. 
Whites  of  4  eggs. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  the  whites  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth 

and  mix;  beat  together  and  add  the  corn-starch,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time,  beating 

constantly.    Bake  in  a  tin,  lined  with  buttered  paper.    It  requires  a  moderate 

oven,  and  about  an  hour's  time  for  baking  i 

CORN-STARCH  CAKE  NO.  3. 


CORN-STARCH  CAKE. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 


Vz  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 


2  cups  of  corn-starch. 


2  cups  sugar. 
1  cup  butter. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 


4  eggs. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  corn-starch. 


1  teaspoon  soda. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 


Sift  soda,  cream  tartar,  corn-starch  and  flour  all  together.    Then  stir  it  in  the 
other  ingredients  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

CREAM  CAKE. 


2  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar. 


1  cup  thick  sour  cream. 
2LA  cups  flour. 


1  teaspoon  saleratus  (put 
into  the  cream). 


2  cups  flour. 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar.    Vz  teaspoon  soda. 


DELICATE  CAKE. 

Vz  cup  butter.  _  ii_cup  sweet  milk.       Wz  cups  sugar. 


Whites  of  4  eggs. 

DATE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  rounding  full. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  heaping  cup  prepared  dates. 


Flavor  to  taste. 


2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

Vz  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 


Vz  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  Mi  cups  flour. 
A  dash  of  nutmeg. 

Prepare  the  dates  as  directed  in   the   introduction  to  this  chapter,  and  stir 

them  in  the  last  thing.    Bake  in  a  shallow  pan;  cut  in  squares. 

DOUGH  CAKE. 

1  cup  raised  bread  dough. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  (seeded). 


2  eggs. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  a 
little  nutmeg. 


Vz  cup  butter. 
Vz  teaspoon  soda. 


Mix  the  dough  and  butter  thoroughly  with  the  hand,  then  the  sugar,  then  the 
eggs.  Do  not  let  it  stand  to  rise,  but  put  it  in  a  bread-pan  as  soon  as  mixed  and 
bake  for  an  hour,  in  a  moderate  oven. 

DOUGH  CAKE  (Economical). 
2  lbs.  raised  dough.  2  cups  sugar.  Vz  cup  butter. 

1  teaspoon  saleratus.  y2  a  nutmeg  (grated).  1  lb.  raisins  (seeded). 

Mix  well,  put  in  greased  pans,  let  rise  about  %  hour,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

FOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar.  1  heaping  cup  butter.  1  cup  milk. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs.  2  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 

Vz  teaspoon  soda.  Vanilla,  almond,  or  any  other  flavor. 

Mix  the  above  and  stir  in  quickly  the  well-beaten  whites  of  i  of  the  eggs,  re- 
serving the  whites  of  2  of  the  eggs  for  the  frosting.  Bake  in  loaves,  and  as  soon  as 
done,  cover  with  frosting. 


250  CAKES. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar.  154  cups  butter.  %  cup  milk. 

3  cups  flour.  3  eggs.  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flavor  -with  lemon. 

This  also  makes  a  nice  layer  cake  with  jelly  or  chocolate  between. 

FREEMAN  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar.  154  cups  flour.  1  cup  currants.  M  cup  butter. 

54  cup  milk.  1  full  teaspoon  baking        A  few  slices  citron.     Cloves  and  nutmeg, 

powder. 

Bake  in  sheets;  ice  and  cut  in  squares. 

FRENCH  LOAF  CAKE. 

5'cupssugar.  3  cups  butter.  2  cups  sweet  milk.  6  eggs. 

10  cups  flour.  %  cup  of  molasses.      3  nutmegs.  1  lb.  raisins. 

1  lb.  currants.  M  lb.  citron.  254  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

54  cup  butter.              54  cup  brown  sugar.  54  cup  molasses.       1  egg. 

1%  cups  flour.              54  cup  sweet  milk.  54  teaspoon  soda.     1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

Cinnamon,  citron,  and  cloves. 

Flour  the  raisins  before  adding. 

FRUIT  CAKE  No.  3. 

4  eggs,  well  beaten.       54  cup  butter.  1  cup  sugar.  54  cup  molasses. 
M  cup  water.                   1  teaspoon  soda.              1  cup  raisins  (seeded).  1  cup  currants. 

Flour  to  make  about  as  thick  as  common  stirred  cake  (not  too  thick).  It 
makes  a  large  cake,  and  is  economical  and  good. 

FRUIT  CAKE  (Economical). 
254  cups  sugar.  Y2  cup  butter.  6  cups  flour  (about  that). 

54  cup  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda.         54  teaspoon  each  of  ground  cloves,  cin- 

1  cup  raisins,  currants,  and  citron,  mixed.  namon  and  nutmeg. 

Knead  all  together,  roll  about  2  inches  thick,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

FRUIT  CAKE  (Rich). 

1  lb.  flour.  1  lb.  sugar.  %  lb.  butter.  2  lbs.  seeded  raisins. 

2  lbs.  currants.  1  lb.  citron.  M  lb.  almonds.  54  oz.  mace. 

1  teaspoon  rose-water.  Juice  of  2  lemons.       10  eggs. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  separately.  Stir  in  the  flavoring,  then  the  lemon-juice  and  spice. 
Add  the  flour,  then  fruit  just  before  it  is  put  in  the  pans.  Allow  2  hours  to  bake 
if  in  1  loaf. 

STEAMED  FRUIT  CAKE. 

2  cups  brown  sugar  (heaped).        54  cup  butter  (full).  4  cups  flour. 

2  eggs.  1  teacup  milk.  %  cup  molasses. 

3  lbs.  raisins.  1  lb.  citron.  1  nutmeg,  grated. 
54  tablespoon  each  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

Put  in  a  pan  and  steam  3  hours;  then  place  in  the  oven  1  hour  to  dry. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

2  cups  white  sugar.  1  cup  butter.  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Whites  of  5  eggs.  3  54  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  1  lb.  citron  cut  in  thin  1  grated  cocoanut. 
fine.  slices. 

Flour  the  fruit  and  add  it  the  last  thing. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

Yolks  of  4  egga.  54  cup  butter  (scant).  1  cup  sugar.       54  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.        Flavor  with  lemon. 

GRAHAM  CAKE. 

54  cup  butter.  1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  sour  milk.  354  cups  graham  flour. 

1  teaspoon  soda-         54  nutmeg,  grated.     54  cup  raisins  (seeded). 

OLD  HARTFORD  ELECTION  CAKE. 

5  lbs.  dried  and  sifted  flour.  2  lbs.  butter.     2  lbs.  sugar.       A  gill  of  lemon-Juice* 

3  gills  of  distillery  yeast  or  twice  4  eggs.  54  oz.  nutmeg.  1  quart  milk, 
that  quantity  of  home-brewed.           2  lbs.  seeded  raisins. 

Rub  the  butter  very  fine  into  the  flour,  add  %  the  sugar,  then  the  yeast,  then 


CAKES.  251 

%  the  milk — hot  in  winter  or  blood-warm  in  summer — then  the  eggs,  well  beaten, 
the  lemon-juice,  and  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  Beat  it  well  and  let  it  stand  to 
rise  all  night.  Beat  it  well  in  the  morning,  adding  the  sugar,  raisins  and  spices. 
Let  it  rise  3  or  4  hours,  put  in  pans  and  bake. 

HASTY  CAKE. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  1  cup  powdered  sugar.    %  cup  milk. 

1  egg.       '  2  cups  flour.  3  small  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  immediately  in  a  quick  oven.  It  may  be  baked  in  patty  tins  or  in  a  loaf. 
It  is  very  nice  while  fresh. 

HICKORY-NUT  CAKE. 

2  eggs.  Ms  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mi  cup  butter.  lMt  cups  flour.  1  cup  hickory-nut  meats  (chopped). 

Beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour  (with 
baking  powder  sifted  in)  and  last  the  hickory-nut  meats.  Frost  it  when  baked, 
mark  in  squares,  and  put  a  nut  meat  in  each  square. 

IMPERIAL,    CAKE. 

1  cup  butter  (heaped).  M  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.         %  teaspoon  soda. 

1  cup  sugar  (heaped).  5  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Ms  lb.  raisins. 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice.  2  cups  hour  (level).  V%  cup  walnuts  (chopped). 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  1}^  hours.  Flour  the  fruit  with  a  scant  tablespoon 
of  flour  extra. 

LADY'S  CAKE. 

4  cups  sugar.  "Whites  of  16  eggs.  2  teaspoons  almond  extract. 

1  cup  butter  (scant).  3  cups  sifted  flour. 

LEMON  CAKE 

1  cup  butter.  4M;  to  5  caps  flour.  Rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons. 
6  eggs.                                             1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

3  cups  sugar. 

One  half  of  this  makes  1  good  loaf. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE. 

"Whites  of  8  eggs.  1  cup  of  corn-starch.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  cups  of  sugar.  1  cup  of  butter.  1  cup  of  milk. 
2  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

MARBLE    CAKE. 

LIGHT  PART. 

IY2  cups  white  sugar.  Mi  cup  sour  milk.  2  cups  flour. 

Ms  cup  butter.  "Whites  of  4  eggs.  M  teaspoon  soda. 

DARK    PART. 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves.  2  cups  flour. 

Mi  cup  molasses.  M;  teaspoon  allspice.  Mi  teaspoon  soda. 

%  cup  butter.  Yolks  of  5  eggs,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg. 
Mi  cup  sour  milk. 

Put  alternate  spoonfuls  of  each  part  into  a  buttered  cake  tin  and  bake. 

CHOCOLATE  MARBLE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  corn-starch.  4  eggs,  beaten  separate. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.        2  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  soda.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

Flavor  with  vanilla. 

After  mixing  all,  take  out  1  cupful  of  the  batter   and  stir  into  it  a  heaping 

tablespoon  of  grated  chocolate;  drop  this  in  the  greased  pan  alternately  with  the 

other  part. 

MOLASSES  CAHE  (Without  Eggs). 
1  cup  butter,  lard  or  dripping.  1  cup  sugar-  1  cup  hot  water. 

1  cup  molasses.  5  cups  flour.  1  cup  Z.ante  currants. 

1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice. 

Put  in  2  bread-pans,  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 
Cheap  and  good, 

ONE-EGG  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter-  lMs  cups  sugar.  3  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  egg.  i  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

1  cup  chopped  raisins. 


252 


CAKES. 


MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

V/z  cups  sugar.  3  eggs. 

Vz  cup  milk.  2  large  cups  flour. 

Flavor  to  taste. 

Add  a  little  more  flour  if  fruit  is  added. 


X  cup  butter. 
2  teaspoons  baking 
powder. 


NEWPORT  CAKE. 

V/z  cups  sweet  milk.       2  tablespoons  sugar. 

3  cups  flour.  2  rounding  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Stir  all  together  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven;  cut  warm,  and  eat  like  biscuit. 


2  eggs. 

y3  cup  melted  butter 


2  cups  sugar. 
2  cups  flour. 
Vz  cup  water. 


ORANGE  CAKE. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs. 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

1  orange,  juice  and  grated  rind. 

PLUM  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar  (neaped). 


Vz  teaspoon  soda. 
1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 


3  large  cups  butter.  2  cups  sugar  (neaped).      12  eggs,beaten  separate. 

4  cups  sifted  flour.  3  lbs.  raisins,  stoned  and  Wz  lbs.  currants. 
1  lb.  citron,  cut  in  thin  small  i  slices,      halved.  Vz  lb-  dates. 

1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  all-  Vz  teaspoon  each  mace       Vz  nutmeg, 
spice.  and  cloves.  3  tablespoons strawb'ry jam, 

added  last. 

Flour  the  fruit  before  adding  it;  beat  the  mixture  thoroughly,  and  bake  in 
well-buttered  tins  for  4  hours,  keeping  a  steady  heat. 

POOR  MAN'S  CAKE. 

2  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  saleratus,  dissolved  in 


1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 


1  cup  boiling  water  poured  over 
1  lb.  fat  pork,  chopped  fine. 
1  lb.  raisins. 


1  cup  raisins. 

PORK  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar. 
1  cup  molasses. 


1  cup  sour  milk. 


Stir  in  flour  until  quite  stiff  and  bake  slowly. 


1  lb.  butter. 

1  lb.  -white  sugar. 

12  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

2  eggs. 

Vz  cup  butter. 


POUND  CAKE. 

1  lb.  flour. 

Vz  teaspoon  mace. 

QUICK  CAKE. 

<Vz  cup  sweet  milk. 
Vz  cup  sugar. 


1  teaspoon  soda. 
Spices  to  taste. 


1  nutmeg  (grated). 

3  tablespoons  rose-water. 


Wz  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


Add  flour  until  it  will  not  drop  from  the  spoon.    Can  be  eaten  warm. 


1  cup  sugar. 
Vz  cup  butter. 

2  eggs. 


Vz  cup  sugar. 

Vz  cup  molasses. 

legg. 

M  cup  butter. 


2  cups  sugar. 
2  cups  butter. 

1  cup  rose-water. 

2  cups  milk. 


"Whites  of  5  eggs. 
2  cups  white  sugar. 


1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 
Whites  of  5  eggs. 


4  eggs. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 


RAISED  CAKE. 

1  cup  sponge. 

Vz  cup  flour. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 


1  cup  raisins. 
Spice  to  taste. 
Let  rise  2  hours. 


RAISIN  CAKE  (Economical). 
lA  cup  hot  water.  Flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to 

Vz  teaspoon  soda.  hold  a  spoon. 

1  cup  raisins. 
1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  cloves. 


RAISIN  CAKE. 

2  cups  molasses. 
8  eggs. 

Juice  of  2  lemons. 
7  cups  flour. 

SILVER  CAKE. 

Vz  cup  butter. 
4  cups  flour. 

SNOW    CAKE, 

1  scant  cup  milk. 
3  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

3  tablespoons  of  water. 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 


1  teaspoon  soda. 

4  cups  seeded  raisins. 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Beat  all  well. 


Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Bake  in  small  round  tins. 


1  cup  of  flour. 
Flavor  with  vanilla. 


CAKES.  253 

BERWICK  SPONGE  CAKE. 

6  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  5  cups  of  flour. 

1  cup  of -water.  3  cups  granulated  sugar.  Juice  and  grated  peel  of  1  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs  2  minutes;  add  the  sugar  and  beat  5  minutes,  then  2  cups  of 
flour  and  beat  2  minutes;  add  the  water,  lemon  juice  and  peel  with  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  beat  1  minute.  Have  the  baking  powder  mixed  with  the  remaining  2 
cups  of  flour;  add,  and  beat  1  minute.  Bake  slowly  %  of  an  hour  in  2  deep  bread- 
pans. 

COCOANUT  SPONGE    CAKE. 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately.  1  teaspoon  salt.  Yz  nutmeg  (grated), 

l.cup  sugar  (heaped).  1  teaspoon  lemon  essence.  Grated   cocoanut. 

1  cup  flour. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  flour,  salt,  lemon  essence  and 

nutmeg;  then  the  beaten  whites  and  the  cocoanut  last.     Stir  all  well  together 

and  put  it  about  }4  inch  deep  in  tins  lined  with  well-buttered  paper.     Bake  in  a 

quick  oven  30  minutes. 

CORN-STARCH  SPONGE  CAKE. 

1  cup  pulverized  sugar.  M  cup  corn-starch.  Whites  of  8  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Y%  cup  flour.                               2  teaspoons  baking  powder.       Flavor  with  lemon. 

Mix  the  flour,  sugar,  corn -starch  and  baking  powder  together  dry,  sifting  all 
several  times,  and  stirring  thoroughly;  then  add  the  eggs  and  lemon  flavor,  and 
bake  immediately.  It  is  best  baked  in  a  long  deep  pan.  It  also  makes  an 
excellent  roll  jelly  cake.  This  quantity  is  enough  for  2  large  rolls;  bake  in  long 
shallow  tins;  as  soon  as  done  remove  on  a  clean  cloth,  spread  with  jelly,  and  roll 
up  at  once. 

CREAM    SPONGE   CAKE. 

2  eggs,  broken  into  A  pinch  of  salt.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
1  teacup  of  cream.                            2  cups  sifted  flour.                    1  teaspoon  lemon  essence. 

1  cup  white  sugar. 

Beat  together  for  5  or  10  minutes,  and  bake  in  a  square  baking-tin  15  minutes. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  Yolks  of  2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  allspice. 
Yz  cup  butter  (scant).                       White  of  1  egg.                                 Yz  teaspoon  cloves. 
2%  cups  flour.                                    1  teaspoon  soda.                              Yz  nutmeg  (grated). 
1  cup  sour  milk,                                2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 

TOYMAN  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar.     1  cup  sweet  milk.  3  cups  flour. 

Yz  cup  corn-starch.      4  eggs.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Flavoring  of  any  kind. 

TROY    CAKE. 

Whites  of  5  eggs.  lYz  cups  sugar.  Yz  cup  butter. 

1  cup  milk.  3  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Divide  the  mixture,  and  color  %  with  strawberry  coloring,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla;  flavor  the  other  part  with  lemon.  Put  in  the  white,  then  the  pink,  and 
bake  slowly. 

WEDDING  CAKE. 

2  lbs.  butter.  2  lbs.  white  sugar.  18  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

1  cup  molasses.  Juice  of  2  lemons.  1  teaspoon  saleratus. 

3  tablespoons  cloves'          2  tablespoons  each  of  mace,  M  lb.  citron,  cut  thin  and  small, 
(ground).                                 allspice  and  nutmeg.  4  lbs.seedless  raisins  or  currants. 

2  lbs.  flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  sugar,  then  the  molasses,  lemon,  and  spices; 
then  the  beaten  yolks,  beating  all  well  together,  then  the  flour  with  saleratus 
sifted  in,  and  last  the  beaten  whites.  Beat  all  together  thoroughly.  Flour  the 
fruit  and  add  last.  Bake  slowly  4  hours,  or  longer,  if  needed.  The  cake  will 
keep  for  years. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Yz  cup  butter.  V-A  cups  white  sugar.  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Whites  of  3  eggs.  3  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 


254  CAKES. 

GROOM'S  CAKE. 

2  cups  butter  (heaped).  2  cups  white  sugar  (heaped).       10  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

4  cups  flour.  2  lbs.  almonds,  blanched  and      1  lb.  raisins  (seeded). 
Mi  lb.  citron  (shaved  fine).  chopped. 

Stir  the  almonds  into  the  cake;  flour  the  raisins  and  citron  and  put  a  layer  in 

the  cake-pan,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  cake,  then  fruit  again,  and  so  on  alternately, 

finishing  with  cake.    Bake  2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

WHITE  CAKE  (Economical). 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  3  tablespoons  nice  fat.       1  cup  milk. 

2lA  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  soda.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

Nutmeg,  or  any  flavoring  desired. 

Add  raisins  or  currants  if  liked;  bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven.  It  resembles  old- 
fashioned  election  cake. 

WHITE  PERFECTION  CAKE. 

3  cups  powdered  sugar.  1  cup  butter.  1  cup  sweet  milk. 
3  cups  flour.                                          1  cup  corn-starch.                  Whites  of  12  eggs. 
2lA  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Caramel  Icing. — 2  cups  powdered  sugar;    %   cup   sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  of 

butter.    Boil  10  minutes  and  stir  while  boiling;  then  set  the  dish  in  cold  water 

and  stir  until  cold. 

WHORTLEBERRY  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar.                           5  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  3  cups  flour.                            1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  4  cups  fresh  whortleber- 

nutmeg.  ries. 

Be  careful  not  to  bruise  the  berries,  adding  them   last.     Bake  in  a  moderate 

oven. 

GINGER  CAKE  {Without  Eggs). 

1  cup  molasses.       1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  milk.  .      V«.  cup  butter, 

5  cups  sifted  flour.  1  tablespoon  ginger.    yz  teaspoon  soda.      A  little  cloves  if  liked. 

Melt  the  butter  and  molasses  in  the  sugar,  allow  the  mixture  to  become  hot, 
and  then  add  spices,  milk  with  soda,  and  flour.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  try  a  small 
cake  first,  and  if  it  falls  add  more  flour. 

GINGERBREAD. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  eggs.  %  cup  butter. 

3  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  ginger.  1  cup  sweet  milk. 
1  tablespoon  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  a  thin  sheet,  and  while  hot,  sprinkle  granulated  sugar  on  top.    Cut  in 

squares.    (See  our  article  on  "Frosting  and  Icing"  for  the  method  of  glazing 

gingerbread.) 

HARD  GINGERBREAD. 

1  cup  molasses.  %  cup  shortening.  1  teaspoon  soda. 

1  teaspoon  ginger.  V2  teaspoon  salt.  Flour  enough  to  roll  out  like  pie-crust. 

HARD  GINGERBREAD  NO.  3. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  of  ground  ginger. 

V?.  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  salt.  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  hard,  and  roll  thin.    Bake  in  large  dripping-pan,  if  you  have  not  sheets 

of  tin. 

HARD  GINGERBREAD  (Without  Eggs). 
1  cup  molasses .  %  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger. 

1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  %  cup  water.  1  level  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  hard  and  roll  thin,  and  bake  as  above. 

HOT  WATER  GINGERBREAD. 

1  cup  molasses-  Vo.  cup  hot  water.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  tablespoons  sour  milk.         1  large  cup  flour.  Ms  teaspoon  ginger. 
1  teaspoon  soda. 


RICH  SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 


1  small  cup  of  molasses.  1  cup  of  butter.  1  teaspoon  each  of  ginger  and  salt. 

1  cup  of  sugar.  2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Make  a  stiff  dough  with  flour,  and  bake  in  square  tin. 


CAKES.  255 

OBMSEIBE  GINGERBREAD. 

1  cup  brown  sugar  (heaped).  1  tablespoon  ginger  (heaped).  M  lb.  citron  (cut  fine). 

1  cup  butter  (heaped).  XA  nutmeg  (grated).  5  level  cups  flour. 

1  cup  molasses. 

Work  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  molasses,  flour,  and  ginger,  grate  in 

the  nutmeg,  and  stir  in  the  citron.    Let  the  dough  stand  over  night;  then  roll 

thin,  cut  in  shapes  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.    It  makes  a 

delicious  hard  gingerbread. 

SOFT    GINGERBREAD. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  cup  of  water. 

1  teaspoon  of  ginger. 

Mix  stiff  and  bake  in  a  square  tin. 

RAISIN    GINGERBREAD. 

3  eggs.  1  cup  chopped  raisins.  2  cups  of  flour. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  tablespoon  of  soda.  Spice  to  taste. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

SPICE  GINGERBREAD. 

1  cup  butter.  1  cup  sour  cream.  G-inger/cinnamon,  cloves  and 

1  cup  molasses.  4  eggs.  nutmeg  to  taste. 

3  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  of  soda.  Bake  in  square  tins. 

1  cup  sugar.  V%  cup  of  dried  currants. 

SOUR  CREAM    GINGERBREAD. 

1  cup  molasses.  V%  cup  shortening  (part  butter  and  2  teaspoons  soda. 

1  cup  sugar.  part  meat  dripping).  1  tablespoon  ginger(or 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream.        1  egg.  more  to  suit  taste). 

Stir  all  together,  dissolve  soda  in  a  little  water,  use  flour  enough  to  make  a 

medium  stiff  batter,  but  not  too  stiff  as  that  will  spoil  the  effect.    Bake  in  a  good 

sized  dripping-pan  so  the  cake  will  be  1%  inch  thick. 

SOUR  MILK  GINGERBREAD. 

1  egg.  lA  cup  sour  milk.  1  level- teaspoon  ground  ginger. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg.         1  level  teaspoon  soda.  2  cups  flour. 

Vi  cup  molasses. 

Bake  in  a  flat  tin,  not  as  a  loaf. 

SUGAR    GINGERBREAD. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  eggs.  1  heaping  teaspoon  ground  ginger. 

Yz  cup  butter.  1  level  teaspoon  of  salt.         ^teaspoon  of  soda. 

Yi  cup  sour  milk. 

Mix  hard  and  roll  thin.    Bake  on  sheets  of  tin  or  in" the  dripping-pan. 


FROSTING  AND  ICING. 

Frosting  or  icing  made  from  the  beaten  white  of  egg  and  sugar,  serves  for  all 
kinds  of  ornamentation,  both  for  cakes  and  pastry.  The  eggs  can  be  beaten  in  a 
flat  dish,  with  a  fork,  until  stiff,  and  then  the  sugar  added,  and  then  the  flavor- 
ing; or  the  sugar  and  eggs  can  be  beaten  together.  Frosting  cannot  be  made 
satisfactorily  unless  the  sugar  used  is  the  powdered  kind,  made  expressly  for  this 
purpose.  The  proportions  are  1  egg  to  %  of  a  cup,  or  10  heaping  teaspoons,  of 
sugar.  If  an  acid  flavor  like  lemon  is  used,  a  little  more  sugar  will  be  needed; 
the  size  of  the  egg  must  also  be  considered.  If  an  insufficient  quantity  of  sugar 
is  used  icing  will  not  harden.  A  little  sweet  cream,  lemon-juice  or  vinegar  softens 
icing  so  that  it  crumbles  less  readily.  The  egg  and  sugar  must  be  thoroughly 
beaten,  some  insisting  on  30  minutes  beating  and  others  on  only  5  minutes! 
If  the  eggs  do  not  beat  readily  a  pinch  of  salt  can  be  added,  which  will  help 
some.  Have  the  frosting  all  beaten  and  ready  before  the  cake  comes  out  of 
the  oven.  The  frosting  should  be  put  on  while  the  cake  is  warm,  but  not 
while  it  is  hot.  If  there  are  several  cakes,  and  some  of  them  cool  while 
the  others  are  being  iced,  they  can  be  set  in  the  oven  and  warmed  before 
being  frosted.    A  heavy  frosting  put  directly  on  to  a  cake  will  inevitably  peel  on 


256  CAKES. 

account  of  the  moisture  or  oiliness  of  the  cake.  A  little  flour  dusted  on  a  cake 
and  then  the  loose  particles  rubbed  off  is  a  good  preventive  against  the  cracking 
of  the  frosting;  or  a  little  gelatine  dissolved  in  boiling  water  and  applied  hot  is 
sometimes  used.  An  inverted  milk-pan  is  a  good  thing  on  which  to  set  the  cake 
while  applying  the  frosting.  Dip  the  knife  often  in  cold  water  if  the  frosting  is 
stiff,  and  smooth  it  off  nicely.  If  it  is  desired  to  frost  the  top  only,  strips  of  paper, 
well  oiled,  can  be  pinned  around  the  cake,  extending  above  the  top,  to  prevent 
the  icing  from  running  down  the  sides;  and  removed  when  it  cools.  After  icing, 
the  cake  can  be  set  in  a  very  cool  oven  to  dry  and  harden  for  a  short  time,  but  do 
not  let  the  top  become  colored;  or  set  it  in  the  warm  sun.  If  nuts,  raisins,  or 
similar  articles  are  put  on  for  ornaments  they  should  be  added  while  the  icing  is 
moist.  Piping  is  done  when  the  icing  is  dry.  All  iced  cakes  should  be  kept  in  a 
very  dry  place. 

It  will  please  a  child  when  making  cake  to  make  a  small  one  for  her;  cover  with 
white  frosting,  and  when  that  hardens,  write  the  child's  name  on  top  with  a  small 
brush  dipped  in  the  yolk  of  egg.  Children  will  be  more  pleased  with  some  simple 
cake,  not  much  more  than  sweetened  bread,  and  ornamented  for  them,  than  they 
would  be  by  the  richest  plum  cake  unornamented,  and  which  they  could  not  eat 
with  safety. 

Any  frosting  left  over  can  be  made  into  little  wafers,  dried  in  the  oven,  and 
used  for  decorating  various  dishes. 

COLORS  FOR  FROSTINGS,  CANDIES,  ETC. 

A  Cawfa'ow.— Nothing  but  vegetable  colors  should  ever  be  used  for  frostings, 
candies,  or  any  cooking  purposes.  As  some  of  the  coloring  matters  sold  in  the 
stores  (and  too  often  used  by  the  uninformed)  are  deleterious  or  even  poisonous, 
it  is  better,  when  possible,  to  prepare  all  coloring  matters  at  home.  We  give  the 
best  of  those  which  are  adapted  for  domestic  use,  and  they  will  meet  all  the  ordi- 
nary wants  of  our  readers. 

To  Whiten  Frosting. — A  few  drops  of  lemon-juice  whitens  frosting;  so  does 
a  small  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar. 

For  an  amber  coloring  mixture  put  %  oz.  turmeric  in  2  oz.  deodorized  alco- 
hol; shake  till  dissolved,  strain  it,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Blue  frosting  is  colored  with  indigo.  It  does  for  ornamental  icing,  but  is  bet- 
ter not  eaten. 

Brown  frosting  may  be  made  by  adding  caramel  to  gelatine  frosting;  or  by 
beating  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  nice  maple  sugar. 

For  chocolate  color  add  a  little  chocolate  or  cocoa. 

Pink  frosting  may  be  made  by  adding  cranberry,  strawberry,  or  raspberry 
juice  from  which  the  seeds  have  been  strained;  the  jeUy  can  also  be  strained  and 
used,  or  a  little  cochineal  will  produce  the  color. 

Yellow  frosting  may  be  made  by  adding  a  trifle  of  strong  saffron  tea  (if  too 
much  is  used  it  is  apt  to  impart  a  bitter  taste).  Or  grate  the  rind  of  an  orange 
into  some  orange  juice,  let  it  soak  about  1  hour;  strain,  and  use  for  coloring. 
Lemon  peel  can  be  used  the  same  way.  (These  are  preferable  to  the  saffron.  See 
what  we  say  elsewhere  about  how  to  grate  orange  peel.) 

Avery  pretty  tint  for  frosting  white  cakes  is  made  by  beating  together  1  cup 
of  white  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Carmine  color  can  be  made  by  mixing  1%  oz.  boiling  water,  %  oz-  ammonia, 
and  %  oz.  No.  40  carmine;  bottle,  cork  closely,  and  it  will  keep  any  length  of 
time. 

Cochineal  Coloring. — Boil  1  oz.  of  powdered  cochineal  and  5  grains  of  baking 
soda  in  1  cup  of  water,  in  an  earthen  vessel  till  reduced  %;  then  add  %  oz.  cream 
of  tartar  and  the  same  of  powdered  alum ;  boil  10  minutes,  strain  through  cloth, 
and  bottle.    Adding  a  little  alcohol  will  make  it  keep  any  length  of  time. 

A  Red  Color  for  confectionery,  jellies,  etc.,  is  sometimes  prepared  by  boiling 
sliced  beetroot  in  a  little  water,  and  then  squeezing  it  through  a  cloth. 

Saffron. — Boil  thoroughly  1  oz.  of  saffron  in  2  cups  of  water;  strain  through 
cloth  and  bottle  for  use.  In  using  this,  the  shade  may  be  varied  by  using  more 
or  less  of  it.  (The  objection  to  saffron  is  its  tendency  to  impart  a  bitter  taste  if 
too  much  is  used.) 

Spinach  Green. — Carefully  trim  the  leaves  from  some  young  spinach,  wash 
them,  pound  them  to  a  pulp,  add  a  little  water,  and  boil  till  it  curdles;  then  strain, 


CAKES.  257 

This  juice  can  be  used  fresh,  or  it  can  be  worked  up  into  colored  sugar,  and  kept 
for  future  use. 

Coloring  Almonds. — Almonds  can  be  given  a  yellow  color  by  splitting  them  in 
two  after  blanching,  and  putting  them  in  the  oven  till  they  get  a  light  golden 
tinge.  They  can  be  tinged  pink  or  red  with  cochineal  mixed  with  a  little  syrup, 
rubbing  the  almonds  in  it,  and  drying  them  in  a  cool  oven.  Green  coloring  is 
produced  in  the  same  way  with  spinach  green.  Only  vegetable  colorings  should 
be  used  for  this  purpose. 

Coloring  Sugar. — Dry  granulated  sugar  can  be  tinted  by  working  in  enough 
of  the  desired  tint  to  color  the  sugar;  then  dry  the  sugar,  powder  it,  and  bottle 
for  use. 

Flavoring  sugar  is  done  in  various  ways.  It  can  be  pounded,  adding  the 
flavoring  during  the  process;  then  sift  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  bottle  for  use. 
For  1  lb.  of  sugar,  2  oz.  of  either  lemon  or  orange  peel  will  be  sufficient.  Other  fla- 
vors can  be  obtained  by  using  instead  1  oz.  of  ginger,  or  2  oz.  of  cinnamon,  or  % 
oz.  of  cloves.    We  have  previously  explained  how  to  prepare  vanilla  sugar. 

Prepared  Caramel. — Caramel  is  crystallized  sugar  heated  to  420°  F.  when  it 
decomposes,  loses  its  power  of  crystallizing  and  fermenting,  and  acquires  a  dark 
brown  color  and  a  bitter  flavor.  It  can  be  prepared  as  follows:  Put  2  cups  of 
granulated  sugar  in  the  frying-pan,  add  1  tablespoon  of  water,  and  heat  it  over  a 
clear  fire,  stirring  continually,  till  it  assumes  a  dark  brown  color,  is  brittle,  and 
bitter  to  the  taste,  but  do  not  burn  it.  Then  add  slowly  2  cups  hot  water,  stir 
constantly,  and  boil  10  minutes  and  let  it  cool.  If  it  candies  when  cool,  add 
water  and  boil  again.  Bottle  when  cold,  keep  corked,  and  it  will  never  spoil.  It  is 
used  to  flavor  or  color  custards,  sauces,  soups,  broths,  gravies,  etc.,  and  has  so 
many  uses  that  it  is  well  to  always  keep  it  on  hand. 

FROSTING  AND  ICING. 

Plain  Frosting. — Beat  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  gradually  work  in  1  cup 
powdered  sugar  and  2  teaspoons  corn-starch.    Flavor  with  lemon. 

Almond  Frosting.  — Make  like  raisin  frosting,  but  use  1  cup  blanched  sweet 
almonds  instead  of  the  raisins. 

Boiled  Frosting. — The  white  of  1  egg,  1  cup  granulated  sugar.  Beat  the  egg 
'  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  just  enough  boiling  water  on  the  sugar  to  melt  it,  then  boil 
to  a  thick  syrup;  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  the  beaten  egg,  and  beat  until  it  is 
thoroughly  mixed.  Add  flavor.  Pour  over  the  cake  while  hot.  If  too  much 
boiled,  the  tendency  of  the  frosting  will  be  to  dry  before  it  cools,  but  1  or  2  drops 
of  hot  water  added  while  using  will  remedy  it. 

Chocolate  Frosting. — Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  1  teacup 
of  pulverized  sugar  and  six  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate;  mix  well,  and  spread 
on  while  the  cake  is  hot. 

Boiled  Chocolate  Frosting. — Boil  together  1  cup  of  light  brown  sugar  and  % 
cup  of  water.  Remove  it  from  the  stove  as  soon  as  it  strings  from  the  spoon,  and 
stir  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  together  with  34  cake  of  Baker's 
chocolate,  finely  grated.  Spread  this  between  the  layers  of  the  cake,  and  over 
the  top  while  the  frosting  is  warm. 

Easily-Made  Frosting. — Allow  a  full  half  cup  of  pulverized  sugar  to  the  white 
of  1  egg,  stirring  it  in  instead  of  beating  the  egg;  spread  it  smoothly  over  the 
cake  and  set  away  to  dry  and  you  will  find  that  the  icing  made  in  this  way  will 
cut  without  breaking,  and  be  smoother  than  when  beaten  in  the  old  way.  The 
icing  made  from  the  white  of  1  egg  is  enough  for  an  ordinary  sized  cake.  Flavor, 
if  desired,  to  suit  the  tast& 

Gelatine  Frosting. — One  teaspoon  gelatine  put  to  soak  in  1%  tablespoons  of 
cold  water,  and  allowed  to  stand  till  it  becomes  a  little  soft.  Now  add  2  table- 
spoons boiling  water,  and  let  the  mixture  boil  a  minute.  Soak  it  in  a  cup  in  which 
it  can  boil.    Measure,  and  pour  upon  a  large  plate,  and  to  every  tablespoon  of  the 

17 


258  CAKES. 

liquid  add  4  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  rolled  and  sifted  to  free  it  from 
lumps.  Beat  well,  as  the  longer  it  is  beaten  the  lighter  and  whiter  it  becomes. 
Flavor  with  1  teaspoon  rose  or  vanilla  extract.  Have  the  cake  cold.  This  quan- 
tity is  enough  for  2  pies  or  1  loaf  of  cake.  It  can  be  put  on  very  thick,  will  not 
crumble,  cuts  as  well  as  the  cake  itself,  and  is  not  sticky. 

Isinglass  Frosting. — Pour  1  coffee-cup  of  hot  water  on  1  sheet  isinglass,  then 
leave  it  to  dissolve  in  a  warm  place.  When  quite  dissolved,  and  there  is  no  scum, 
stir  in  1  large  teaspoon  corn-starch  and  2  heaping  cups  of  pulverized  sugar.  Pour 
it  on  the  cakes  when  they  are  cold,  do  not  smooth  it  much,  and  let  it  harden  in  a 
cool  place.    More  easily  made  than  the  ordinary  frosting. 

Maple  Syrup  Frosting. — This  is  made  by  adding  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg  to 
1  cup  of  good  maple  syrup. 

Milk  Frosting. — Boil  together  2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  of  milk,  and  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  for  10  minutes;  remove  from  the  stove,  and  beat  until  creamy  and  thick 
enough  to  spread.    Add  %  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Raisin  Frosting.  — Put  1  cup  white  sugar  in  2  tablespoons  warm  water,  and 
boil  5  minutes;  pour  it  over  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  and  beat  well;  then  add  1 
cup  chopped  raisins. 

Soft  Frosting.— Take  1  cup  sugar  and  %  CUP  milk,  and  boil  until  it  will  drop 
in  strings  from  the  spoon;  then  put  in  a  bowl,  add  1  teaspoon  of  flour,  and  beat  a 
few  minutes;  let  stand  until  cool,  and  thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake  without 
running. 

Boiled  Icing. — Stir  1  cup  granulated  sugar  in  1  cup  water,  and  set  on  the  stove 
to  boil;  do  not  stir  after  it  begins  to  boil;  test  it  with  a  cold  spoon,  and  when  it 
"threads"  by  holding  the  spoon  high  and  letting  the  syrup  fall  back  very  slowly 
into  the  sauce-pan,  take  it  from  the  fire;  add  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg  to  the  hot 
syrup,  and  beat  5  minutes.    Add  flavoring.     Spread  on  the  cake  while  warm. 

Coffee  Icing  is  made  by  stirring  confectioner's  sugar  into  strong  coffee  set  on 
the  stove  till  it  is  heated;  put  it  on  the  cake  while  warm. 

Orange  Icing. — Squeeze  the  juice  of  an  orange  over  the  grated  rind,  and  let  it 
stand  an  hour;  then  strain  the  juice;  add  to  it  a  coffee-cup  of  confectioner's 
sugar  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  then  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  spread  on  the  cake. 

Icing  Cookies,  Etc. — Before  putting  in  the  oven,  dredge  or  sprinkle  sugar- 
gingerbread,  cookies,  and  other  small  cakes  not  to  be  frosted,  with  fine  sugar, 
and  it  will  give  a  rich  brown  glaze,  and  add  much  to  their  flavor. 

ORNAMENTAL  ICING. 

Many  people  imagine  that  it  requires  a  great  deal  of  practice  and  special  skill 
to  do  anything  of  this  kind,  but  those  who  have  never  tried  it  will  be  surprised 
to  find  what  pretty  effects  can  be  produced  with  the  simplest  materials,,  All 
that  is  needed  is  a  paper  cone,  which  is  easily  made,  and  a  little  icing. 

Paper  cones  for  icing  can  be  made  as  follows :  Cut  a  sheet  of  rather  stiff 
paper  so  as  to  get  a  triangular  sheet  as  shown  in  Fig.  1,  having  it  about  10 
inches  from  1  to  2,  and  5  inches  from  1  to  3.  Divide  the  hypothenuse,  2,  3,  into 
3  equal  parts  at  5  and  4.  Then  fold  over  the  paper  to  make  creases  in  it  as 
shown  by  the  dotted  lines  from  1  to  5  and  5  to  P,  and  also  from  6  to  4.  Then  take 
the  point  3  between  the  finger  and  thumb  of  the  left  hand,  with  the  point  3  up- 
ward and  the  long  side  1,  2,  towards  you,  and  taking  the  point  2  between  the 
thumb  and  finger  of  the  right  hand  roll  the  paper  around  the  fingers  of  the 
left  hand  so  as  to  form  a  cone,  the  apex  of  which  will  be  at  5,  and  the  crease 
5,  P,  overlaps  the  crease  5,1.    This  will  leave  the  long  point  2,  4,  6,  projecting 


CAKES. 


259 


above  the  cone,  and  it  can  be  turned  down  into  the  center,  bringing  the 
point  2  down  to  the  apex,  and  this  will  hold  the  cone  in  shape,  as  seen  in  Fig. 

2.  The  point  is  then  cut  off  and  the  icing  passes  out  of  the  opening  thus 
made.  The  amount  cut  off  regulates  the  size  of  the  hole,  and  therefore  the  size 
of  the  stream  of  icing  which 
will  come  through.  Little  brass 
tubes  are  made  for  this  pur- 
pose, which  can  be  bought  if 
desired  for  a  few  cents  each. 
The  end  of  the  cone  is  cut  off, 
and  the  tube  dropped  into  the 
cone,  projecting  a  little  as 
shown  by  the  dark  end  in  Fig. 

3.  It  is  best  to  make  6  or  8 
cones  at  a  time,  as  the  icing 
softens  the  paper,  and  for  this 
reason  a  rather  stiff  paper  is 
needed. 

To  use  the  cone  it  is  filled 
about  %  to  %  full  of  icing,  and 
the  sides  of  the  top  are  folded 
in  over  each  other  in  such  a  Z 
way  as  to  hold  in  the  icing,  as 
shown  in  Fig.  3       In  using  the        paper  cone  for  piping  or  ornamental  icing. 

cone  it  is  grasped  by  the  thumb^and  forefinger  of  the  left  hand  a  little  ways  up 
from  the  apex,  while  the  right  hand  holds  the  top  and  the  right  thumb  rests 
over  the  center  or  top,  and  forces  out  the  icing  by  a  slight  pressure.  The  icing 
or  frosting  which  is  used  is  simply  the  white  of  egg  beaten  up  with  sugar  as  we 
have  explained  for  frosting.  It  can  be  variously  colored  as  desired.  The  frost- 
ing on  the  cake  should  be  cold  when  this  ornamental  work  is  applied.  This 
sort  of  decoration  is  termed  piping. 

If  the  icing  gets  too  thin,  add^more  sugar;  if  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  beaten 
egg;  it  can  be  kept  from  drying  while  being  used  by  laying  a  wet  cloth  over  the 
bowl  containing  it. 

Piping  or  ornamental 
frosting  admits  of  endlessly 
varied  designs  and  effects.  It 
is  best  to  begin  with  some  sim- 
ple design.  It  can  be  drawn  on 
paper,  a  piece  of  glass  laid  over 
it,  and  then  let  the  nozzle  of 
the  cone  trace  the  design 
while  the  icing  is  steadily 
pressed  out  by  the  thumb  at 
the  top.  Then  the  glass  can  be 
cleaned  off  and  another  trial 
made.  In  this  way  very  rapid 
progress  can  be  made,  and    any  Fig  5 

one  can  speedily  learn  to  or- 
nament their    own  cakes,  while   those  with  special  aptitude  can  devise  very 
attractive  designs.    A  simple  figure  for  a  border  is  shown  in  Fig.  4,  while  Fij;. 


roinnnnnn 


Fig,  4. 


260  CAKES. 

5  shows  another  design,  in  which  the  dots  might  be  put  on  with  pink  icing  to 
make  a  contrast.  We  give  other  designs  suitable  for  practice.  The  best  taste, 
however,  does  not  favor  an  excessive  use  of  colors.  Plain  white,  and  the  milder 
colors  judiciously  used  to  produce  some  contrasts,  will  result  in  the  most  pleasing 
effects.  Ladies  will  be  surprised  at  the  ease  with  which  the  work  is  done  and  the  ad- 
vance they  make  in  learning.  Cakes  can  be  thus  decorated  so  as  to  produce  very 
pretty  effects  which  will  be  pleasing  and  gratifying  to  guests.  Patterns 
as  pretty  as  any  they  can  embroider  can  be  made  much  more  quickly 
with  a  paper  cone. 
A  well  -  decorated 
cake  makes  a 
pretty  addition  to 
a  well-ornamented 
table. 

Crystallization, 
which  is  sometimes 
used,  is  merely  put- 
ting on,  while  the 
icing       is     moist, 

crushed  rock  candy  Fig.  6.  Fig.  7. 

or  granulated  sugar,  white  or  colored  (see  "Colors  for  Frosting").  Special  designs 
can  be  applied  by  letting  the  frosting  dry,  then  marking  out  the  design  with  white 
of  egg  or  gum  water;  then  sprinkle  on  the  white  or  colored  sugar  or  candy,  and 
shake  off  all  that  does  not  adhere. 

Jelly  can  be  used  for  piping  in  just  the  same  manner  as  frosting.  Warm  it  so 
that  it  will  pass  easily  through  the  cone;  beating  it  to  a  uniform  consistency  with 
a  spoon  often  helps  it,  especially  in  cold  weather. 

Butter  or  lard  can  also  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Have  it  soft  enough  to  pass 
easily  through  the  cone  with  gentle  pressure,  but  not  too  soft.  In  hot  weather  it 
can  be  stiffened  with  a  little  flour,  but  do  not  get  it  too  stiff. 

Ornamenting  Other  Articles. — Piping  is  used  for  decorating  many  other 
things  besides  cakes,  but  the  method  is  the  same  for  all.  For  pastry  or  puddings 
the  frosting  made  of  white  of  egg  arid  sugar  is  used,  while  butter,  lard  or  jelly, 
are  used  for  ham,  tongue  or  roast  fowl. 


SMALL  CAKES. 

For  cookies,  snaps,  jumbles,  etc.,  a  quick  oven  is  the  best.  They  are 
all  best  kept  in  a  tin  box.  If  they  get  moist  by  keeping,  dry  them  out  in  the 
oven.  For  icing  cookies,  etc.,  see  our  article  on  "Frosting  and  Icing."  Some 
people  sprinkle  cookies  with  sugar,  after  being  rolled  out,  then  cut  them  out, 
press  a  raisin  in  the  center,  and  bake. 

ALMOND  DROPS. 

1M  cups  sugar.  1  cup  butter.  1  cup  almonds,  blanched. 

3  eggs.  Flour  to  roll  and  drop. 

ANISE  DROPS. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar.  3  eggs.  3  cups  flour.  1  teaspoon  anise  seed. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  well  for  ~%  hour;  then  add  the  other  ingredients; 
drop  on  buttered  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  The  secret  lies  in  beating 
rapidly  and  thoroughly.  Each  teaspoon  is  dropped  separately  so  as  to  make  sep- 
arate cakes. 


CAKES.  261 

GINGER  DROPS. 

%  cup  butter.  1  cup  sugar.  54  cup  molasses. 

2  eggs.  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger.       2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Beat  all  well  together,  adding  flour  till  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  the  spoon  in 

drops  the  size  of  an  egg.    Bake  on  tins  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GINGER  DROPS  NO.  3. 

2  eggs  (well  beaten).  1  cup  brown  sugar.  2  teaspoons  ginger. 
54  cup  molasses.                                    1  teaspoon  soda.                     1  tablespoon  vinegar. 
Flavor  with,  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Roll  out  thin,  and  cut  with  a  small  cutter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

GINGER  NUTS  (Without  Eggs). 
1  cup  molasses.  54  cup  brown  sugar.  M  cup  lard. 

1  teaspoon  ginger.  54  cup  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk.       1  teaspoon  soda. 

Mix  very  soft,  form  into  round  balls  like  nuts,  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick 
oven. 

COOKIES. 

154  cups  white  sugar.  54  cup  lard.  54  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  1  teaspoon  of  soda.       Flour  sufficient  to  make  dough. 

Season  with  caraway  seed  or  nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste.    Mix  thoroughly;  roll 

very  thin;  bake  quickly. 

BOSTON  TEA  COOKIES. 

1  teacup  butter.  3  teacups  sugar.  3  eggs. 

54  cup  sour  milk.  54  teaspoon  soda.  Spice  to  taste. 

Flour  enough  to  roll  out  rather  stiff. 

CINNAMON  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter  (heaped).  2  cups  brown  sugar  (heaped).  3  eggs. 

Flour  to  roll  out;  cut  in  small  cakes,  and  sprinkle  on  cinnamon  and  sugar  just 
before  baking. 

COCOANCT  COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar.  54  cup  butter.  1  egg. 

54  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  water.  54  cocoanut  (grated).        Flour  enough  to  roll. 

CREAM  COOKIES  (Extra). 
154  cups  sugar.  1  cup  thin  sweet  cream.  154  cups  butter. 

1  egg.  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Flour  to  roll  soft- 

Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cut. 

CREAM   COOKIES  NO.  3. 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream.  54  teaspoon  soda.  Flavor  with  lemon. 

1  cup  sugar.  A  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  with  flour  enough  to  roll;  after  they  are  rolled  sprinkle  with  granulated 

sugar  and  just  pass  the  rolling-pin  over  again  so  it  will  not  dust  off. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar.  %  cup  warm  water.  A  pinch  of  salt. 

%  cup  butter.  2  teaspoons  soda.  Mix  rather  soft. 

1  cup  molasses.  2  heaping  teaspoons  ginger. 

HERMIT  COOKIES. 

54  cup  butter.                         1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  54  teaspoon  soda 

154  cups  sugar.                              cloves  and  nutmeg.  dissolved  in 

3  eggs.                                     Flour  to  roll  soft.  4  tablespoons  water. 

.  MOEASSES  COOKIES  (Without  eggs). 
1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses.  54  cup  melted  butter,     54  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

Add  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmegs,  or  other  2    tablespoons  cold    water 

spices  to  taste.  (not  more). 

Use  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  so  that  it  will  just  drop  off  from  the  spoon. 
They  are  nice  eaten  warm. 

Molasses  Cookies  No.  2. — Beat  together  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar  and  1  egg; 
add  %  cup  of  melted  lard  in  which  is  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  add  1  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  warm  water,  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  ginger; 
when  all  are  mixed  add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  and  as  much  flour  as  can  be 
mixed  in.    Roll  out  thin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


2G2  CAKES. 

HICKORY-NUT  COOKIES. 

\XA  cups  sugar.  3  eggs  (well  beaten).  1  cup  hickory-nut  meats, 

lA  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  chopped  rather  fine. 

4  tablespoons  milk.  Flour  enough  to  roll  thin.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

ORANGE    COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar.  %  cup  butter.  S  eggs. 

Flour  to  roll  out.       1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder.        Grated  rind  of  2  or  3  oranges. 

ROCKFORD  COOKIES. 

1  cup  white  sugar.  Yz  cup  butter.  1  egg. 

2  tablespoons  sweet  milk.     2  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Add  flour  enough  to  roll  out. 
Bake  quickly. 

VANILLA  COOKIES. 

Yn  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar.  1  cup  milk. 

Yi  teaspoon  soda.  Flour  enough  to  roll  soft.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Sprinkle  on  sugar  as  you  roll  them  out.    1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

PATTY   CAKES. 

Va  cup  sugar.  2  eggs.  1  cup  milk  or  water. 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Make  a  soft  sponge  and  bake  quickly  in  patty-pans. 

JUMBLES. 

1  cup  sugar.  Yz  cup  butter.  Yi  cup  milk. 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Flour  to  roll  out.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

COCOANUT  JUMBLES. 

1%  cups  pulverized  sugar  (heaped).    1  cup  butter  (scant).      1  cup  flour  (heaped). 

5  eggs.  1  lb.  grated  cocoanut.  Drop  on  tins  with  tablespoon. 

HICKORY-NUT  JUMBLES. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  egg.  1  cup  flour. 

1  tablespoon  of  water.      1  cup  hickory-nut  kernels. 

Stir  all  well  together,  drop  on  greased  pans  with  a  tablespoon,  and  bake  in  a 

hot  oven. 

DROP  CAKE. 

4  eggs.  2  cups  milk.  A  little  salt. 

Flour  enough  for  thin  batter.    Bake  in  cups. 

GINGER  BISCUITS. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar.  .  2  eggs. 

Yi  cup  sweet  milk.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  eggs,  and  beat  again;  then  add 

the  milk.    Have  the  baking  powder  and  ginger  well    mixed  in  a  coffee-cup  of 

flour.    Add  this  and  more  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.    Cut  out  like  cookies,  and 

bake. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  molasses.  1  cup  lard. 

1  tablespoon  ginger.  1  teaspoon  saleratus  dissolved  in  Salt  to  taste. 

2  or  3  tablespoons  of  water. 

Stir  in  flour  until  the  dough  can  be  made  into  marbles  between  the  palms. 
Flatten  and  place  in  tins  far  enough  apart  not  to  touch  each  other  in  rising,  and 
bake  moderately.  These  snaps  will  keep  weeks  if  kept  dry;  if  they  become  damp, 
they  can  be  dried  out  and  baked  again. 

GINGER  SNAPS  NO.  3. 

2  eggs.  2  cups  New  Orleans  molasses.  1  cup  butter. 
2  tablespoons  ginger.        2  teaspoons  soda. 

GINGER  SNAPS  (Without  Eggs). 
2  cups  molasses.  1  cup  sugar.  %  cup  water. 

1  teaspoon  soda.  V%  cup  lard.  Yi  cup  butter. 

SUGAR  GINGER  SNAPS. 

1  cup  sugar.  3  tablespoons  of  butter.  4  tablespoons  of  lard. 

Vs  cup  of  water  (scant).  2  teaspoons  of  ginger.  XA  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 

Flour  enough  to  roll.  in  warm  water. 

Warm  the  shortening  and  sugar  and  stir  in  the  water  and  ginger;  then  the 

soda,  and  add  the  flour  last.    Roll  out  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


CAKES. 


263 


FRUIT   SNAPS. 

Wz  cups  sugar.  1  cup  butter.  Yi  cup  molasses. 

3  eggs.  1  teaspoon  soda.  1  cup  each  raisins  and  currants. 

1  teaspoon  each  of  ginger,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice. 

Flour  to  roll  out  as  soft  as  can  be  cut.    These  will  keep  several  months. 


LEMON  SNAPS. 


%  cup  butter. 
1  teaspoon  soda. 


1  cup  sugar. 
Lemon  flavor. 


2  eggs. 

Flour  to  roll  soft. 


4  tablespoons  hot  -water. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


LADY  FINGERS. 

Take  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  beaten  light,  1  cup  white  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  flour  to  roll  thin;  flavor  to  taste. 
Cut  in  strips  the  size  of  a  finger.  Do  not 
let  them  touch  in  the  pan.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven,  watching  them,  as  they  readily  scorch. 
No.  2. — Another  recipe  is  to  take  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  beat  light,  add  )^  cup  powdered 
sugar  and  beat  again;  add  2  heaping  table- 
spoons cf  flour,  mix  well,  and  add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  the  3  eggs.  Squeeze  them 
out  of  a  paper  cone,  or  bag  (as  shown  in  our 
illustration),  dust  on  sugar,  and  bake  till 
light  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MACAROONS. 

Almond  Macaroons. — Take  1  lb.  almonds, 
blanch  them,  and  pound  to  a  paste  with  a 
little  rose  water  or  oil  of  lemon;  add  1  lb.  of 
white  sugar,  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of  4 
eggs.    Bake  in  drops,  or  small  cakes,  on  forming  lady  fingers. 

buttered  tins  in  a  slow  oven  to  a  light  brown.  Some  glaze  them  with  beaten  yolk 
of  egg,  and  others  dust  on  sugar  before  baking  them.  Keep  in  tightly  closed  tin 
boxes  or  glass  jars. 

Filbert  Macaroons  may  be  made  by  using  equal  parts  of  filberts  and  almonds. 

For  Cocoanut  Macaroons,  use  1  cup  powdered  sugar  and  1  cup  grated  cocoa- 
nut;  work  in  enough  of  the  cocoanut  milk  to  form  a  plain  paste;  mold  and  bake 
as  above  directed. 

Hickory-Nut  Macaroons. — Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  granulated  sugar, 
and  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  till  very  light;  stir  in  1  cup  chopped  hickory-nuts, 
and  bake  like  almond  macaroons. 

KISSES. 

Take  the  well-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  add  5  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  flavor  with  lemon  juice;  drop  on  buttered  paper  with  a  spoon,  sift  sugar  over 
them  and  bake  30  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

For  Chocolate  Kisses  pound  together  2  oz.  chocolate  and  2  cups  white  sugar; 
sift  it,  mix  it  with  the  well-beaten  white  of  egg,  and  finish  as  above. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  CAKES. 

Rub  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  2  cups  of  flour,  then  add  an  even 
teaspoon  of  salt,  well  pulverized;  again  add  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  home-made 
baking  powder;  stir  all  together  thoroughly.  Have  on  hand  a  cup  of  maple  sugar 
coarsely  sliced  from  the  cake.  {Place  the  cake  of  sugar  on  a  tin  and  put  in  the 
hot  oven  until  it  is  soft  enough  to  cut.)  Have  the  oven  hot  and  a  baking-tin  well 
buttered;  add  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk  to  the  flour  and  stir  quickly.  If  the  dough 
is  not  thick  enough  add  a  trifle  more  of  flour;  put  in  the  sugar  and  stir  again. 


264  CAKES. 

Roll  out  and  cut  with  the  biscuit  cutter;  place  on  the  tin  and  put  in  the  oven. 
The  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  bake  them  brown  in  10  minutes. 

PUFFS. 

1  cup  milk.  2  eggs  (-well  beaten).  1  tablespoon  flour. 

2  rounded  tablespoons  butter.  4  heaping  tablespoons  sugar.       G-rated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Mix  the  milk  and  beaten  eggs;  slowly  add  the  flour,  butter,  sugar  and  flavor 
and  mix  well.    Bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven  in  buttered  saucers. 

KOLY  POLY   CAKE. 

1  teacup  sugar.  1  teacup  flour.  2  tablespoons  milk. 

3  eggs  (beaten  separate).  1  teaspoon  soda.  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

Spread  thinly  in  a  long  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done,  cover 
with  jam  while  hot  (raspberry  jam  is  best)  and  roll  up;  cut  in  slices  when  cold. 

SHREWSBERRY  CAKES. 

1  heaping  cup  butter  (creamed).       1  scant  cup  granulated  sugar.       1  egg  (beaten). 

2  cups  flour.  Vz  oz.  caraway  seeds. 

Roll  very  thin  and  cut  into  small  cakes;  prick  them,  and  bake  in  tins  or  shal- 
low pans  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SAVOY  BISCUITS. 

Break  5  eggs  into  a  pan  and  add  a  coffee-cup  of  granulated  sugar;  beat  to- 
gether until  it  is  thick,  then  beat  in  gradually  a  coffee-cup  of  dry  sifted  flour. 
Place  the  dough  in  teaspoonfuls  on  buttered  paper  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  bake 
a  light  brown.  When  cold,  brush  the  under  sides  of  the  biscuits  with  the  beaten 
white  of  an  egg,  and  press  2  together. 

TRIFEES. 

2  cups  butter  (heaped).  2  cups  sugar  (heaped).  4  cups  flour  (heaped). 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  sift  in  the  flour,  add  the  milk,  turn  the  dough  on 

to  a  bread-board  and  work  well;  roll  out  in  as  thin  sheets  as  possible,  cut  in  small 

round  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

TURTLE   CAKES. 

These  always  please  the  children.  Have  the  turtles  all  made  the  day  before- 
hand, and  ready  on  a  plate.  Take  large  raisins  and  flatten  them;  insert  at  one 
end  a  whole  clove,  with  the  head  sticking  out  for  the  head  of  the  turtle;  at  the 
other  end  insert  the  stem  of  a  clove  with  the  smaller  end  out  for  the  turtle's  tail; 
on  each  side  insert  two  cloves  with  the  heads  picked  out  leaving  the  spurs  on  for 
the  claws  of  the  turtles.  Make  nice  round  cookies,  spread  a  thick  frosting  on  one 
side,  and  place  a  turtle  on  the  frosting  to  dry. 

TWILBACK. 

1  coffee-cup  granulated  sugar.  5  eggs.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

4  coffee-cups  of  flour. 

Knead  these  well  together  until  stiff,  then  roll  the  dough  out  flat  about  3  fin- 
gers wide.  Br\ish  the  dough  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  place  in  a  moderate 
oven  and  bake  for  %  hour;  then  take  it  out  and  cut  while  hot  into  thin  pieces 
with  a  sharp  knife.  Strew  these  with  sugar  and  place  them  again  in  the  oven, 
until  both  sides  are  a  light  brown  color.  A  good  German  cake  to  eat  with  coffee 
at  breakfast. 


DESSERTS. 

Under  this  head  may  be  found  recipes  for  making  many  delicate  dishes  with 
corn-starch,  eggs,  gelatine,  etc.,which  can  be  prepared  in  the  morning,  or  the  day 
before  they  are  to  be  used,  and,  in  warm  weather,  served  cold  as  a  dessert. 

Fresh  new  milk  should  be  used  whenever  a  recipe  calls  for  milk,  but  con- 
densed milk  can  be  used  if  fresh  milk  is  not  to  be  obtained.  If  cream  is  used  it 
should  be  sweet,  and  as  fresh  as  possible — the  cream  from  "separators"  and 
creamers  is  the  safest  to  use.  Thin  cream  with  milk  mixed  in  it  will  not  whip 
to  a  froth.  The  colder  it  is  the  better  it  whips — in  warm  weather  it  is  apt  to  turn 
to  butter.  If  cream  is  slightly  turned  a  very  little  cooking  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  water -may  be  mixed  with  it  without  injuring  the  flavor.  The  soda  (alkali) 
counteracts  the  lactic  acid  developed  in  souring.  Milk  should  be  scalded  in  a 
double  boiler  made  for  the  purpose;  or  use  a  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  which  answers  very  well,  and  is  not  likely  to  be  melted  to  pieces  by  a  care^ 
less  servant. 

So  many  warnings  against  using  bad  eggs  have  already  been  given  that  we 
need  not  repeat  them  here.  Beat  eggs  in  stone  or  earthenware  and  not  in  tin, 
as  explained  for  cakes.  It  is  an  improvement  to  strain  yolks  through  a  small 
wire  strainer  after  beating  them.  The  yolks  alone,  or  the  whole  egg,  can  be  used 
for  floats  and  boiled  custards.  To  add  the  eggs  so  that  they  will  not  curdle  there 
are  several  ways.  One  way  is  to  heat  the  milk  till  a  slight  foam  appears  on  top, 
then  put  in  the  sugar,  which  cools  it  so  that  the  eggs  can  be  added  without  curd- 
ling.   One  tablespoon  of  sugar  for  each  egg  is  the  uniform  rule  for  custards. 

Ducks'  eggs,  when  obtainable,  add  much  to  the  richness  and  flavor  of  cus- 
tards. Less  are  required  than  of  the  ordinary  eggs.  Four  ducks'  eggs  to  a  pint  of 
milk  makes  a  delicious  custard. 

Custards  may  be  made  with  cream  or  milk,  and  with  eggs  varying  in  number. 
A.  very  plain  custard  can  be  made  with  1  egg  to  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  good  one 
with  3  eggs,  but  if  it  is  wanted  very  rich  4  or  even  5  eggs  can  be  used.  The  richer 
the  custard  the  more  likely  it  is  to  curdle.  If  it  does  curdle,  take  an  egg-beater 
and  thoroughly  beat  a  bowl  full  at  once  and  it  can  be  saved,  although  many  cooks 
do  not  know  this.  Floating  Island  can  be  saved  the  same  way.  For  boiled  cus- 
tards the  yolks  give  a  smoother  consistency  than  the  whites.  Boiled  custards 
require  constant  attention  from  beginning  to  end;  do  not  let  them  boil  too  long, 
but  take  them  from  the  stove  as  soon  as  they  are  done  and  they  will  thicken  in 
cooling;  do  not  leave  them  in  the  hot  dish,  or  they  will  curdle,  but  pour  them 
into  cold  molds,  or  set  the  vessel  containing  them  in  cold  water.  Custard  ought 
to  be  thin  enough  to  pour  if  it  is  to  serve  as  a  sauce,  and  should  then  be  taken 
off  an  instant  sooner. 

If  the  yolks  only  are  used  in  the  custard  the  whites  may  be  utilized  in  various 
ways.  They  can  be  beaten  up,  sweetened  and  flavored  and  put  on  top,  as  in 
"Floating  Island;"  or  after  beating,  they  may  be  poached  by  dipping  a  spoonful 
at  a  time  into  boiling  water  or  milk,  and  then  spread  on  top  of  the  custard,  either 
dotted  with  bits  of  jelly  or  not,  as  preferred.  The  beaten  whites  can  also  be  col- 
ored by  beating  in  any  bright  colored  jelly,  using  1  tablespoon  of  jelly  to  the 
white  of  each  egg. 

In  baking  custards  bake  them  slowly  with  moderate  heat;  if  there  is  too  much 
heat  they  will  partly  turn  to  whey.    They  are  done  when  firm  in  the  center. 

See  what  we  say  about  the  action  of  heat  on  flavoring  extracts  in  our  intro- 
duction to  "Cake."  The  flavoring  is  best  added  after  the  dish  is  taken  from  the 
stove. 

Rennet. — Get  the  butcher  to  prepare  the  stomach  of  a  calf  for  you,  salt  it  well, 
and  spread  out  to  dry;  when  about  half  dry,  shake  the  loose  salt  off  and  cut  it 
into  strips;  then  take  a  quart  bottle,  put  in  the  strips,  and  fill  with  currant,  Mus- 
catine, or  any  other  sweet  wine;  let  stand  12  or  15  days,  and  it  can  be  used.  It 
is  superior  to  the  liquid  rennet  sold  in  the  stores,  and  will  keep  12  months,  or 
more. 

(265) 


266  DESSERTS. 

BliANC  MANGE. 

Blanc  Mange  means  literally  "white  food"  or  jelly.'but  in  many  recipes  fruit  or 
other  coloring  is  now  added  to  such  desserts  to  improve  the  appearance  and  give 
variety.  Blanc  Mange  is  made  of  many  materials,  like  corn-starch,  arrow- 
root, sago,  tapioca,  gelatine,  etc.  It  may  be  garnished  with  bright  colored  jelly 
if  desired,  and  eaten  with  whipped  cream,  cream  and  sugar,  boiled  custard, 
preserves,  fruit  juices,  jellies  or  sauces. 

Arrow-root  and  several  other  blanc  man.ges  are  given  in  our  "Invalid  Cookery" 
(which  see). 

Almond  Blanc  Mange. — Take  4  cups  milk,  4  tablespoons  of  corn-starch  and  4 
tablespoons  of  sugar;  boil  all  together  until  thick,  and  add  30  almonds,  blanched 
and  split. 

Corn-Starch  Blanc  Mange  is  made  the  same  way,  but  do  not  cook  quite  as  long. 
It  can  also  be  made  by  using  1  tablespoon  less  of  corn-starch,  and  adding  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  which  makes  it  richer. 

Farina  Blanc  Mange. — Mix  5  tablespoons  of  farina  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  stir  it  into  1  quart  of  boiling  milk;  boil  10  to  15  minutes,  and 
turn  into  a  wet  mold. 

Fruit  Blanc  Mange. — Stew  the  fresh  fruit,  strain  off  the  juice  and  sweeten  to 
taste.  Put  it  in  a  double  kettle  and  let  it  boil.  While  it  is  boiling,  stir  in  corn- 
starch wet  with  a  little  cold  water,  in  the  proportion  of  2  tablespoons  of  corn- 
starch to  1  pint  of  juice;  stir  it  until  it  is  cooked;  then  pour  in  molds  wet  in  cold 
water,  and  set  them  away  to  cool.  They  may  be  cooled  quickly  by  setting  the 
cups  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  changing  the  water  as  it  becomes  warm.  Eaten 
with  cream  and  sugar,  this  is  a  delightful  dessert.  If  cream  is  scarce,  a  rather 
thin  boiled  custard  makes  a  nice  accompaniment. 

Cherries  or  red  raspberries  are  nicest,  but  other  fruit  may  be  used.  Currant 
juice  combined  with  raspberries  is  fine;  strawberries  are  good,  and  a  circle  of  fresh 
strawberries  around  the  mold  makes  a  good  garnish. 

Irish  Moss  Blanc  Mange. — Wash  1  cup  moss  in  soda  water  to  remove  the  saline 
taste,  and  rinse  in  several  waters;  steep  it  in  1  quart  of  milk  till  that  is  thickened; 
strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Wet  the  mold  in 
cold  water  and  pour  in  the  blanc  mange.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  eating  it 
the  day  it  is  made.  It  is  an  addition  to  give  a  little  preserved  ginger  with  each 
plate.    This  is  good  for  invalids  without  the  ginger. 

Rice  Blanc  Mange. — Use  34  pound  ground  rice,  1  quart  milk,  3  ounces  loaf 
sugar,  1  ounce  fresh  butter.  Mix  the  rice  to  a  smooth  batter,  with  about  %  pint 
of  the  milk;  then  the  remainder  into  a  sauce-pan  with  sugar,  butter,  and  a  small 
pinch  of  salt;  bring  to  the  boiling  point;  then  stir  in  the  rice  and  let  it  boil  10 
minutes.  After  taking  from  the  fire  add  any  flavoring  desired.  Grease  the  mold 
with  salad  oil,  and  when  perfectly  set  it  should  turn  out  easily.  Garnish  with 
jam,  or  pour  around  a  compote  of  any  kind  of  fruit  just  before  sending  to  the 
table.  It  is  best  made  the  day  before  it  is  wanted.  A  nice  flavoring  is  made  by 
steeping  3  laurel  leaves  in  the  milk  and  taking  them  out  before  the  rice  is  added. 

Variegated  Blanc  Mange. — Make  2  blanc  manges — 1  white,  of  corn-starch,  and 
1  colored,  of  fruit;  pour  a  little  of  each  of  these  alternately  into  a  mold,  thus 
forming  different  colored  layers,  letting  each  layer  set  before  pouring  on  the  next. 

CUSTAKDS. 

Plain  Custard. — Take  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  corn-starch,  1  cup  sugar, 
beaten  together.  Add  2  cups  boiling  milk  and  let  it  cook  a  few  minutes;  then 
add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  set  on  ice. 


DESSERTS.  267 

Custard  No.  2. — Take  perfectly  fresh  eggs,  4  if  large,  or  5  if  small;  stir  them 
into  1  quart  of  nice  sweet  milk,  sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with  a  teaspoon  of  peach 
water,  or  extract  of  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt.  Rub  a  very  little 
butter  on  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  baking-dish.  Pour  in  the  custard,  grate  a 
little  nutmeg  over  the  top,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven;  %  hour  is  generally  long 
enough. 

Almond  Custards. — Make  a  boiled  custard  with  1  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  1  saltspoon  of  salt.  When  cold,  add  %  cup  of 
finely  chopped  almonds  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Serve  in  glasses  with  whipped 
cream  sprinkled  with  finely-shredded  almonds. 

Apple  Custard. — Take  1  pint  stewed  apples,  sweetened  and  cooled;  1  pint  sweet 
milk,  4  eggs,  well  beaten.  Mix  the  apple,  milk  and  eggs,  put  in  the  baking-dish, 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top,  and  bake  %  hour. 

Arrow-root  Custard. — Two  cups  of  boiling  milk,  3  heaping  teaspoons  arrow- 
root wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  beaten  with  1  egg.  Mix 
the  paste  with  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  briskly;  take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the 
egg  and  sugar,  and  then  boil  2  minutes;  flavor  to  taste  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt. 
This  is  very  light  and  delicate,  and  suitable  for  invalids. 

Banana  Custard. — Make  a  plain  boiled  custard,  and  when  cool,  pour  it  over 
bananas  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Fruit  Custards. — Make  the  same  as  banana  custard,  using  any  kind  of  fruit 
desired,  either  fresh  or  canned. 

Bengal  Custard. — Take  1  quart  of  milk,  3  tablespoons  of  rice  flour,  3  well- 
beaten  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  or  more  if  liked.  Scald  the  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  beat  the  eggs,  rice  flour,  and  sugar  together,  and  flavor  with  nutmeg  or 
vanilla.  Bake  or  steam  in  custard-cups.  If  baked,  place  the  cups  in  a  dripping- 
pan  of  hot  water  and  the  cups  will  not  be  discolored. 

Boiled  Custard. — Beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  and  3^  cup  of  sugar  together,  then 
stir  them  into  a  quart  of  milk.  Put  these  in  a  custard-boiler,  add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
place  the  boiler  in  a  kettle  of  water  and  boil  until  it  becomes  thick. 

Soft  Caramel  Custard. — Take  1  quart  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  6  eggs,  %  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  reserving  a  cupful.  Beat  the  eggs  and 
add  the  cold  milk  to  them.  Stir  the  sugar  in  a  small  frying-pan  until  it  becomes 
liquid  and  just  begins  to  smoke.  Stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk;  then  add  the 
beaten  eggs  and  cold  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
Set  away  to  cool.    Serve  in  glasses. 

Chocolate  Custard.— Use  %  K>-  Baker's  prepared  cocoa  to  1  quart  milk.  Mix 
the  milk  and  scraped  chocolate  to  a  thick  paste.  Boil  15  minutes;  while  warm 
stir  in  3  tablespoons  sugar,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Beat  8  eggs  well,  and  stir 
into  this  mixture.  Bake  in  cups.  It  may  be  served  with  a  macaroon  on  top  of 
each. 

Cocoanut  Custard. — One  quart  milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  6  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  corn -starch  and  1  teaspoon  vanifla  flavoring.  Put  milk,  sugar  and 
eggs  on  the  stove  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  or  use  a  double  boiler;  when  the  milk 
begins  to  simmer  add  the  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk;  boil  3  min- 
utes.   When  cool  add  the  flavoring  and  cover  the  top  with  grated  cocoanut. 

Custard  Float. — Put  4  large  tablespoons  of  chocolate  in  1  quart  of  milk, 
dissolve  it  well,  and  heat  it  in  a  double  boiler;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
%  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  corn-starch,  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  boil  about 
as  long  as  corn-starch  custard,  and  then  put  on  ice  to  cool.    When  ready  to  serve 


268  DESSERTS. 

pour  into  a  glass  dish,  and  put  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  4.  eggs  on  top.    It 
will  be  relished  by  those  who  like  chocolate. 

Lemon  Custard. — Take  1  pint  of  fresh  milk,  1  lemon,  ^  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  4 
eggs.  Put  the  milk  to  scald  in  the  double  boiler,  add  the  grated  rind  and  strained 
juice  of  the  lemon  to  the  sugar;  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  stiff,  then  mix  with  the 
sugar  and  lemon,  and  stir  it  into  the  milk  when  scalding  hot;  take  it  from  the  fire 
immediately  as  it  must  not  boil.  When  it  has  cooled  a  little  fill  it  into  the  cus- 
tard-cups. The  white  of  1  egg  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  may  be  made  into 
frosting  and  a  portion  placed  on  each  custard. 

Rennet  Custard. — Heat  1  quart  of  milk  until  it  is  lukewarm;  add  2  tablespoons 
of  rennet  (see  our  recipe  for  preparing  it,  although  it  can  be  bought  at  the  stores), 
2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  and  4  tablespoons  of  sugar;  stir  the  ingredients 
gently  together;  as  soon  as  they  are  mixed  pour  the  custard  immediately  into  the 
bowl  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Set  it  on  the  ice  as  soon  as  it  is  cool,  and  serve 
it  for  dessert,  with  preserves  or  cream  and  sugar.  It  will  be  firm  in  about  2 
hours,  and  should  be  served  soon  after. 

Ost  Eaka  (of  Sweden). — This  is  rennet  custard  served  with  cinnamon  and 
cream. 

Custard  Souffle. — Use  2  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter,  X  CUP  sugar,  4  eggs, 
2  teaspoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  oLvanilla.  Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and 
when  hot  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten  with  the  sugar  and  flour;  take 
from  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken,  and  stir  in  the  butter;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  cut  it  into  the  custard  lightly,  and  bake 
%  hour  in  a  slow  oven.    Serve  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven. 

Steamed  Custard. — Take  5  eggs  (throw  out  the  yolks  of  2,  and  beat),  3  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  chip  or  two  of  lemon  or  orange,  and  a  little 
vanilla.  Scald  1  quart  of  milk,  take  off  the  scum,  and  pour  it  on  the  beaten  eggs. 
Set  it  to  steaming  in  a  close  covered  vessel,  and  steam  5  or  6  minutes;  then  set  on 
ice. 

Tapioca  Custard. — Take  1  quart  of  fresh  milk,  2  eggs,  ^  cup  of  pearl  tapioca, 
'  %  cup  of  white  sugar.  Soak  the  tapioca  over  night,  and  the  next  morning  drain 
off  all  the  water  while  the  milk  is  scalding  in  a  double  boiler;  when  the  milk  is 
hot,  add  the  tapioca  and  let  it  simmer  10  minutes;  beat  the  sugar  and  eggs 
together,  and  add  to  the  milk  and  tapioca;  flavor  with  cinnamon,  vanilla  or  nutmeg. 
Tomato  Custard. — Peel  and  stew  until  thoroughly  cooked  1  quart  of  ripe 
tomatoes;  strain  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds;  beat  3  fresh  eggs  very  light 
and  add  them  to  the  strained  tomatoes  with  a  teacup  of  white  sugar,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  15  or 
20  minutes.    This  is  nice  served  hot  or  cold. 

White  Custard. — Boil  2  pints  of  new  milk  with  some  cinnamon  and  a  few  bitter 
almonds;  beat  to  a  paste  with  rose-water,  a  few  sweet  almonds,  and  add  to  the 
custard.  Thicken  it  to  the  taste  with  a  little  flour  or  arrow-root  previously 
rubbed  down  with  water  or  milk;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Various  Custards. — Those  without  experience  should  adhere  closely  to  the 
recipes  given,  but  cooks  with  a  little  experience  can  produce  a  variety  of  custards 
by  varying  the  flavors  used,  leaving  the  body  of  the  custard  the  same.  Oranges 
cut  fine  (after  being  peeled  and  seeded)  can  be  used;  so  can  canned  or  candied 
fruits,  chopped  almonds,  grated  cocoanut,  chocolate,  caramels,  macaroons,  etc., 
thus  making  various  custards.  An  ingenious  cook  can  devise  many  changes,  and 
make  attractive  dishes,  and  we  advise  experienced  cooks  to  try  it. 


DESSERTS.  .  269 

CREAMS,  FLOATS,  ETC. 

Chocolate  Creams. — Take  3  pints  fresh  milk,  and  add  2  ounces  grated  choco- 
late, and  %  cup  white  sugar;  mix  and  bring  to  a  boil;  gradually  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  slowly  stirring  it  one  way;  add  vanilla  boiled  in  milk  to  flavor; 
when  thoroughly  mixed  put  into  cups,  place  in  water,  and  boil  1  hour.  Serve 
when  cold. 

Coffee  Cream. — Mix  %  cup  sugar,  %  cup  strong  coffee  and  1  pint  rich  cream; 
whip  till  it  is  all  froth;  put  in  stem  glasses,  freeze,  and  serve  in  the  same  glasses. 

Hamburg  Cream.— Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  1  lemon  into  \% 
cups  sugar;  beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  put  into  a  pan,  add  the  sugar,  and  set  in 
hot  water,  stirring  all  the  time;  when  the  eggs  begin  to  cook,  add  the  5  whites, 
which  should  be  beaten  and  ready;  then  remove  and  let  cool. 

Mock  Cream. — Take  1  quart  of  new  milk,  1  fresh  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  corn- 
starch, 1  teaspoon  of  white  sugar.  Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  or  tin  pail 
set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Beat  the  starch,  sugar  and  egg  thoroughly,  and 
stir  into  the  milk  when  it  is  scalding  hot.  Let  it  get  thoroughly  cold  before 
serving. 

Pink  Cream.— Use  3  gills  raspberry  syrup  mixed  with  J^  pound  of  sugar  and 
1  pint  of  thick,  sweet  cream.    Whisk  until  very  light,  and  serve  in  whip  glasses. 

Rice  Cream. — Boil  1  cup  rice  till  tender,  in  new  milk;  add  white  sugar  to 
whiten,  pile  on  a  dish,  and  spread  slices  of  currant  jelly  or  preserved  fruit  on  top 
of  it.  Then  take  the  well-beaten  whites  of  5  eggs,  sweetened  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  rich  cream  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  spread  this  on 
top  like  snow. 

Tapioca  Cream. — Soak  3  tablespoons  of  tapioca  over  night;  boil  it  next  day 
in  1  quart  sweet  milk;  then  stir  in  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar;  boil  all 
10  minutes.  Beat  the  3  whites  with  -3  teaspoons  of  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla, 
and  stir  into  the  other  when  nearly  cold. 

Tapioca  Nut  Cream. — Soak  %  pound  of  pearl  tapioca  over  night  in  1%  cups  of 
cold  water.  Cover  with  3  cups  of  cold  water  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
transparent,  then  add  ^  cup  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon; 
turn  into  small  molds.  Chill  and  turn  into  a  glass  dish  garnished  with  apricots 
and  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  chopped  walnuts  and  vanilla. 

Thickened  Cream. — Stir  together  %  cup  of  rich  milk,  %  cup  white  sugar,  and 
1  wine-glass  of  .rose-water;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  stir  all  into  1  quart 
of  rich  cream;  set  it  over  hot  coals,  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil  stirring  all  the  time; 
then  take  off,  pour  into  a  glass  bowl,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Eat  with  any  berries, 
like  strawberries,  or  raspberries,  or  with  sweetmeats. 

Whipped  Cream. — Thoroughly  whip  1  teacup  of  ice-cold  sweet  cream;  then 
beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs;  add  3  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  whipped 
cream  and  stir  lightly  together.  Nice  with  fruit  puddings,  or  to  cover  slices  of 
sponge  cake. 

Whipped  Cream  No.  2. — 1  cup  thick,  sweet  cold  cream,  and  3  teaspoons  pul- 
verized sugar;  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  %  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Apple  F4oat. — Bake  3  apples  (with  no  water  around  them);  when  done,  scrape 
the  pulp  all  out,  thoroughly  mix  in  1  cup  sugar  and  let  it  cool.  Then  add  the 
well -beaten  white  of  1  egg,  and  beat  all  together  30  minutes.  Form  it  into  shape 
and  pour  around  it  a  custard  made  of  1  quart  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  corn-starch, 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  lemon  or  vanilla  flavor. 

Apple  Kuchen. — Make  a  pie-crust  a  trifle  richer  than  biscuit,  roll  out  and  place 


270  DESSERTS. 

it  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  in  which  meat  is  roasted.  Peel  cooking  apples,  slice 
them  into  eighths,  and  place  them  across  the  pan,  close  together  in  even  rows, 
leaving  a  small  space  between  the  rows,  and  pressing  the  inner  edge  of  the  apple 
slightly  into  the  crust;  sprinkle  "A"  sugar  over  the  apple,  and  a  little  nutmeg; 
bake  in  the  oven  until  the  apples  are  cooked.  This  will  make  a  simple  and 
attractive  dessert. 

Bird's  Nest. — Take  6  apples,  peel,  sweeten  and  bake,  and  then  cover  with  a 
custard  made  of  2  tablespoons  sugar,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  3  cups  milk,  and  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla;  bake  till  firm. 

Cheap  Dessert. — Put  a  square  cracker  in  a  saucer,  pour  just  enough  boiling 
water  on  it  to  soften  it;  put  a  teaspoon  of  jelly  in  the  center,  sprinkle  sugar  over, 
and  pour  sweet  cream  over  all.    Very  nice  also  for  invalids. 

Charlotte  Russe. — Beat  the  whites  of  7  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  whip  1  pint  of 
cream  and  add  it;  add  sugar  and  flavor  to  taste;  pour  it  over  sliced  cake.  Set 
in  a  cool  place  after  making. 

Economical  Dessert. — Soak  1  teacup  rice;  when  done  to  a  jelly  add  1  teaspoon 
of  currant  jelly  and  %  teacup  of  fruit  juice;  boil  a  few  minutes;  put  in  molds, 
and  eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Floating  Island. — Beat  well  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  5  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
and  stir  it  into  1  quart  of  sweet  milk;  when  cool,  flavor  and  pour  into  a  dish. 
Heap  upon  it  the  5  well-beaten  whites,  to  which  a  little  sugar  is  added,  and  % 
cup  jelly.    Dot  with  bits  of  jelly. 

French  Jellies. — Let  a  layer  of  melted  jelly  cool  in  the  bottom  of  a  mold;  then 
add  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit,  or  soft  dried  fruit;  then  add  another  layer 
of  jelly,  and  so  on  until  the  mold  is  filled. 

Orange  Float. — Take  4  cups  water,  the  juice  and  pulp  of  2  lemons,  and  1  cup 
of  sugar;  bring  to  a  boil,  and  add  4  tablespoons  of  corn-starch  mixed  in  water; 
stir  it  15  minutes  and  when  cool  pour  it  over  5  sliced  oranges.  Over  the  top 
spread  the  whites  of  3  eggs  sweetened,  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Eat  with 
cream. 

Layer  Pudding  {Brown  Layer). — Take  2  cups  milk,  ~%  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
scraped  chocolate,  and  2  rounded  tablespoons  of  corn -starch;  moisten  the  starch 
in  a  small  portion  of  the  milk,  and  place  the  remainder  in  a  double  boiler  with 
the  chocolate  until  it  is  scalding  hot;  then  add  the  corn-starch  and  sugar  and  stir 
it  constantly  until  it  thickens;  then  put  it  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  or  mold  to 
cool. 

Yellow  Layer. — Take  2  cups  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons 
of  corn-starch  and  %  teaspoon  of  extract  of  vanilla;  scald  the  milk  as  above,  sav- 
ing a  portion  to  moisten  the  corn-starch;  when  the  milk  is  hot  add  the  egg  yolks, 
corn-starch  and  sugar,  and  stir  until  thick;  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  vanilla, 
and  put  this  in  the  mold  to  cool,  over  the  brown  layer  of  pudding. 

Pink  Layer. — Take  2  cups  milk,  %  CUP  sugar,  2  tablespoons  corn-starch  dis- 
solved in  berry  juice,  or  the  berries  may  be  crushed  fine  and  added  without 
straining;  make  like  the  other  layers,  and  put  this  layer  in  the  mold  over  the 
yellow  layer.  Then  beat  the  2  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  %  cup  pulver- 
ized sugar,  and  place  it  on  top. 

This  pudding  can  be  made  of  water  instead  of  milk,  if  milk  is  scarce,  and  if 
eggs  are  scarce  the  yellow  part  may  be  colored  with  a  little  saffron  instead  of  the 
yolk  of  egg,  and  the  frosting  omitted.  Serve  with  sweet  cream,  or  any  liquid 
pudding  sauce  preferred. 


DESSERTS.  271 

Kiss  Pudding. — Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  %  cup  sugar  until  light;  add  1% 
tablespoons  corn-starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk;  stir  in  2  cups  boiling  milk  till 
thick  and  let  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  3  eggs  with  %  CUP  sugar,  spread  it 
over  the  top,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Lemon  Jelly  and  Cream. — Place  a  mold  of  vanilla  cream  on  the  dish  in  which 
it  is  to  be  sent  to  the  table;  cut  another  mold  of  lemon  jelly  in  pieces,  or  break  it 
with  a  spoon  to  a  quivering  mass,  for  a  garnish.  Serve  a  portion  of  each  to  a 
person;  the  combined  flavor  is  delicious. 

Dessert  Puffs. — Take  the  well-beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  2  cups  cream,  2  cups 
milk,  1  cup  sifted  flour  (heaped),  1  cup  powdered  sugar  (scant),  a  little  salt,  and  a 
little  grated  rind  of  lemon;  beat  them  all  together  until  very  light;  bake  in  gem 
pans,  and  then  sift  pulverized  sugar  over  them.  Eat  with  sauce  flavored  with 
lemon. 

Fruit  Puffs. — Take  X  teacup  of  sugar,  %  teacup  of  milk,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  flour  to  make  a  batter  a  trifle  thicker 
than  for  griddle  cakes;  stir  in  a  cup  of  seeded  and  chopped  raisins.  Butter  tea- 
cups and  All  %  ' u^  °f  batter,  set  the  cups  in  a  steamer,  put  on  the  cover  and 
steam  1  hour.  This  quantity  will  make  6  cupfuls.  Eat  hot  with  orange  sauce. 
A  delicious  dessert. 

Quince  Snow. — Take  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  $4  CUP  sugar,  and  5  oz.  of  quince 
marmalade;  put  it  in  a  dish  shaped  like  a  pyramid,  and  bake  it  a  light  yellow. 

Molded  Snow. — Scald  3  cups  of  milk  and  mix  %  CUP  °f  corn-starch,  with  1 
cup  of  milk,  using  1  quart  of  milk  in  all.  Stir  the  diluted  corn-starch  into  the 
hot  milk,  adding  also  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Cook  15  minutes;  then  add  the 
whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  pour  into  a  mold.     Chill  and  serve. 

Scandinavian  Rogrod.— Take  1%  quarts  of  water  and  add  1%  quarts  of  any 
acid  fruit  juice,  like  currant,  and  2  heaping  cups  sugar,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  A 
little  stick  cinnamon  tied  in  a  bag  should  be  dropped  in  and  later  taken  out,  as 
it  can  be  used  in  that  way  often.  While  boiling,  stir  in  slowly,  to  keep  it  from 
lumping,  1  lb.  soaked  sago,  or  1%  lbs.  arrow-root;  then  boil  15  minutes,  and  turn 
into  molds  or  cups  to  cool.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream  when  cold.  (A  favorite 
dish  in  Sweden  and  Norway.) 

Sago  With  Fruit. — Take  1  cup  sago  and  soak  it  in  half  \  milk  and  water; 
then  add  1  quart  of  boiling  milk,  stirring  until  it  becomes  thick,  and  let  it  cool. 
Put  a  layer  of  peaches,  or  any  other  fruit  preferred,  into  a  pudding  dish,  using  a 
little  sugar  if  needed;  then  put  on  a  layer  of  sago;  then  another  of  fruit,  and  so  on 
until  the  dish  is  full.  Set  it  on  ice;  serve  with  sweetened  cream.  An  appetizing 
dessert  in  warm  weather. 

Fruit  Tapioca. — Pick  over  and  wash  %  CUP  pearl  tapioca;  put  it  in  3  cups  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  1  hour,  or  till  soft  and  transparent,  stirring  often;  add  1  scant 
teaspoon  of  salt,  %  cup"  sugar,  and  %  cup  currant  jelly;  stir  till  the  jelly  is  all 
dissolved,  pour  into  a  mold,  and  serve  very  cold  with  sugar  and  cream.  Instead 
of  the  jelly,  ^  cup  lemon  juice,  or  any  acid  fruit  jelly  may  be  used;  or  use  1  cup 
canned  apricot,  peach  or  quince.  In  summer  2  cups  of  ripe  berries  or  small 
fruits  can  be  used,  adding  more  sugar. 

Turon. — Whip  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  chop  7  oz.  of  almonds  or 
chestnuts  and  sprinkle  by  degrees  into  the  egg;  work  in  sufficient  sugar  to  make 
a  flexible  paste,  stirring  well  the  whole  time.  Flavor  with  lemon  essence,  and 
put  into  a  mold. 

Fruit  Trifle. — Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  2  tablespoons  of 


272  DESSERTS. 

sugar,  and  the  same  of  raspberry  jam  and  currant  jelly.    Eat  with  sponge  cake, 
and  it  is  delicious. 

Sponge  Biscuit  for  Dessert. —Take  2  cups  flour,  1%  cups  sugar,  sifted,  6  eggs, 
beaten  separate,  lemon  flavor.  Beat  the  whites,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the 
lemon  flavor,  then  the  sugar;  mix  well  and  add  flour  last.  Bake  in  patty-pans, 
with  sugar  sprinkled  over  the  top  to  glaze.    Serve  with  a  rich  liquid  sauce. 


GELATINE    PREPARATIONS. 

To  prepare  gelatine  first  soak  it  in  a  small  quantity  of  cold  water, 
and  then  add  hot  water  to  dissolve  it;  or  it  may  be  placed  in  the  required  amount 
of  cold  water  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  range  where  it  will  heat  and  dissolve 
gradually.  About  1  to  1%  cups  of  cold  water  to  the  ounce  of  gelatine  is  the  right 
proportion.  Remember  that  gelatine  should  not  boil,  and  never  needs  cooking. 
It  is  a  good  plan  to  strain  it,  after  it  is  dissolved,  through  a  fine  strainer.  Gelatine 
can  be  used  most  satisfactorily  in  jellies,  blanc  manges,  creams  and  ices.  Never 
use  more  than  will  suffice  to  make  a  jelly  strong  enough  to  retain  its  form  when 
turned  out  of  the  mold.  More  is  needed  in  summer  than  in  winter,  a  scant  ounce 
being  sufficient  in  summer  for  1  pint  of  liquid,  while  a  little  over  %  ounce  will  do 
in  winter — this  being  the  rule  for  jellies,  while  creams  require  a  little  less.  It  is 
best  to  set  them  on  ice,  when  possible,  as  soon  as  they  are  ready.  Molds  should 
be  buttered  or  oiled  to  facilitate  taking  the  jellies  from  them;  or  they  may  be 
wet  with  cold  water  before  filling.  If  jellies  stick  to  the  molds,  set  them  for  a 
moment  in  hot  water,  and  they  can  be  easily  removed. 

Gelatine  is  prepared  from  the  skin  and  bones  of  animals.  It  requires  a  careful  selec- 
tion of  materials  and  cleanly  preparation,  to  obtain  a  wholesome  product.  The  use  of 
white  of  egg  to  clarify  the  jelly  is  not  needed  now,  as  was  formerly  the  case, because  the  gel- 
atine isclarified  duringthe  processof  manufacture.  The  changesof  opinion  regardingthe 
nutritive  value  of  gelatine  are  interesting.  In  the  18th  century  gelatine  was  considered 
the  most  nourishing  constituent  of  meat.  About  the  middle  of  the  19th  century  the  French 
Academy  of  Science  made  a  special  investigation  of  the  subject,  and  as  a  result  a  complete 
change  of  opinion  took  place.  It  was  shown  that  gelatine  alone  could  not  sustain  life,  a 
reaction  occurred,  and  very  mistakenly  all  food  value  was  denied  it.  Further  experiments, 
however,  have  put  it  in  its  right  place,  and  it  is  now  admitted  that  while  it  cannot  sustain 
life  alone,  it  has  some  value  as  food,  but  it  must  hold  a  subordinate  place,  and  it  is  only 
valuable  when  eaten  with  other  things  which  supply  the  elements  which  it  lacks.  It  has 
some  slight  value  in  convalescence,  although  very  much  less  than  many  people  imagine. 
When  pure  it  is  tasteless  and  devoid  of  flavor. 

Isinglass  was  formerly  obtained  from  the  swimming  bladder  of  the  sturgeon  and  came 
from  Russia,  but  now  it  is  obtained  from  many  other  fish  and  comes  from  South  America, 
the  East  Indies,  Canada,  etc.  The  best  is  almost  colorless,  is  free  from  fish  odor,  taste  and 
smell,  and  dissolves  freely  in  any  warm  liquid.  Chemically  there  is  little  difference 
between  isinglass  and  gelatine,  and  what  we  say  about  the  nourishing  properties  of  gelatine 
applies  equally  to  isinglass.  Tests.  Alittlepure  isinglass  put  into  cold  water  swells,  and 
becomes  soft,  white  and  opaque,  while  gelatine  will  become  transparent  and  glass-like.  In 
hot  water  isinglass  dissolves  with  little  or  no  residuum,  while  gelatine  leaves  a  considerable 
deposit.  In  vinegar,  isinglass  swells  into  a  jelly  and  all  trace  of  its  structure  is  soon 
destroyed,  while  gelatine  hardens  and  retains  its  form.  These  are  the  best  tests  for  distin- 
guishing between  them. 

Jelly  of  Different  Colors. — This  can  be  prepared  by  having  jelly  of  the  desired 
colors  prepared  separately;  then  put  a  little  of  one  in  a  mold,  let  it  cool;  then 
pour  in  a  little  of  the  other  and  let  that  cool,  and  so  on,  allowing  each  layer  to 
set  before  putting  in  the  next.  Blanc  Mange  and  jelly  can  be  combined  thus 
very  prettily. 

Almond  Blanc  Mange. — Put  an  ounce  of  gelatine  to  soak  in  a  teacup  of  cold 
water;  set  on  the  stove  where  it  will  heat  gradually  and  dissolve.  Blanch  24 
sweet  almonds,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar;  mix  with  1  pint  of  milk  and  1  pint 
of  cream,  scald  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler,  or  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water;  sweeten  to  taste,  add  the  dissolved  gelatine,  stir  thoroughly,  and  pour  into 
a  mold  to  set. 

Bananas  in  Jelly. — Prepare  the  gelatine,  sweeten  it,  and  when  cool  put  a  layer 
of  sliced  bananas  and  oranges  in  the  bottom  of  a  prepared  mold  or  glass  dish, 
then  pour  on  a  little  of  the  gelatine,  let  it  set,  and  then  put  in  another  layer  of 


DESSERTS.  273 

fruit,  and  so  on  alternately  until  the  dish  is  full;  set  on  ice  till  ready  to  serve. 
Bananas  and  strawberries  can  be  used  the  same  way.  For  a  variety,  soak  the 
gelatine  in  cold  water,  and  then  dissolve  it  in  hot  lemonade;  then  use  it  with  the 
fruit  as  above. 

Chocolate  Charlotte  Russe. — Cover  1  ounce  of  gelatine  with  cold  water,  shave 
3  ounces  of  Baker's  prepared  cocoa,  and  mix  it  with  1  pint  of  sweet  cream  and 
the  gelatine.  Put  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle  over  a  slow  fire,  and  stir  it  until  it  boils 
and  is  well  mixed.  Beat  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  and  whites  of  4  together  until  very 
light;  then,  stir  them  in  the  mixture,  with  %  lb.  of  white  sugar;  simmer  it  over 
the  fire  but  do  not  let  it  boil;  pour  it  in  a  bowl  and  whip  it  to  a  strong  froth. 
Having  lined  your  pans  or  molds  with  spongecake  fill  them  with  the  mixture  and 
set  them  on  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place. 

Charlotte  Russe  (Without  Eggs).— Soak  2  tablespoons  of  gelatine  in  a  little 
cold  milk  2  hours.  Take  2  coffee-cups  cream,  1  teacup  milk;  whip  the  cream  stiff 
in  a  large  bowl;  set  on  ice.  Boil  the  milk  and  pour  gradually  over  the  gelatine 
until  dissolved,  then  strain;  when  nearly  cold  add  the  whipped  cream,  a  spoonful 
at  a  time.  Sweeten  with  pulverized  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Line  a  dish 
with  lady-fingers  or  sponge-cake;  pour  in  the  cream  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to 
harden. 

Calf's  Foot  Jelly. — Boil  2  calf's  feet  in  4  quarts  of  water  until  it  is  reduced  to 
1  quart;  strain,  let  it  get  cold,  and  take  off  the  fat;  then  add  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  7  eggs,  the  juice  of  4  lemons,  and  1  cup  of  sugar;  mix  thoroughly,  and 
boil,  with  constant  stirring,  for  about  a  minute,  and  strain  through  a  bag  of 
flannel. 

Cider  Jelly. — Take  1%  oz.  gelatine,  the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  grated  rind 
of  1;  add  2  cups  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  1  hour;  then  add  1%  lbs.  loaf  sugar,  3 
pints  boiling  water,  and  1  pint  boiled  cider;  put  into  molds,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Coffee  Jelly.  — Take  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  strong  coffee,  3  cups  boiling  water, 
and  1  box  gelatine.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  then  put  the  boiling  water 
on  it;  then  stir  the  coffee  and  sugar  in  it,  and  place  in  molds.  Eat  it  with  whipped 
cream.    Whipped  cream  piled  around  it  makes  it  a  very  elegant  dish. 

English  Cream  Jelly. — Mix  8  beaten  egg  yolks  with  10  spoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
1  of  Royal  vanilla  flavoring.  Stir  this  into  1  quart  of  milk,  and  stir  over  the  fire 
till  it  thickens.  Strain,  and  stir  occasionally  till  cool.  Having  soaked  2  ounces 
gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  add  to  it  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  and,  when  dis- 
solved and  smooth,  strain  into  the  cream  and  put  into  wet  molds. 

For  Chocolate  Cream  proceed  as  above,  omitting  the  vanilla,  and  adding  J£  lb. 
of  melted  chocolate.  Cooled  in  layers,  with  yellow  cream,  it  makes  a  very  hand- 
some dish. 

Gooseberry  Cream. — Take  off  the  tops  and  stalks  from  %  CUP  of  gooseberries, 
and  stew  them  in  1  plump  half  cup  of  sugar  in  }4CUV  °f  water;  then  pulp  through 
a  sieve.  Melt  1  oz.  gelatine  in  %  cup  of  milk.  Whip  1  cup  cream  well  and  stir 
lightly  in  with  the  pulp;  add  the  gelatine  and  milk-,  and  stir  till  nearly  cold.  Put 
into  a  mold  and  cool. 

Lemon  Gelatine.— Use  1  box  of  gelatine  covered  with  1  pint  of  cold  water;  let 
stand  }4  hour;  add  3  pints  boiling  water,  2  pints  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  4 
lemons;  let  stand  until  all  is  dissolved,  strain  and  put  in  a  mold. 

Lemon  Jelly. — Place  J^  box  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  set  it  on  the 
stove  where  it  will  heat  and  dissolve  gradually.  When  dissolved,  add  another 
pint  of  hot  water,  and  sugar  and  lemon  juice  to  taste — about  2  lemons,  if  small. 


274  .  DESSERTS. 

will  suit  the  taste  of  most  people,  but  the  more  lemon  juice,  the  more  sugar. 
Make  it  the  day  before  using,  and  set  in  the  ice-chest  to  harden;  serve  with  thick 
whipped  cream.    Mock  cream  may  be  served  with  it  if  liked. 

Macedonian  Jelly. — Put  2  ounces  of  gelatine  in  3  pints  of  cold  water  and  place 
it  on  the  stove,  where  it  will  heat  gradually  and  dissolve.  Add  to  the  hot  gela- 
tine the  strained  juice  of  2  lemons,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Cool  a  little  of  the  jelly  in 
a  mold  by  setting  it  on  ice;  when  solid,  add  a  layer  of  nicely-washed  Zante  cur- 
rants, seeded  raisins,  and  stoned  dates,  then  cover  the  fruit  with  more  of  the  warm 
jelly;  harden  again  on  the  ice,  and  repeat  the  process  until  the  mold  is  full.  Fresh 
grated,  or  dessicated  cocoanut,  may  be  used  instead  of  fruit,  if  preferred. 

Orange  Cream. — Squeeze  the  juice  from  six  oranges  and  1  lemon;  strain  it, 
and  put  it  into  a  sauce-pan  with  1  oz.  isinglass;  add  enough  water  to  make  in  all 
1%  pints.  Rub  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  to  taste,  on  the  orange  and  lemon  rind, 
add  it  to  the  other  ingredients,  and  boil  all  together  about  10  minutes;  strain 
through  a  muslin  bag,  and  when  cold  beat  up  with  1  cup  sweet  cream;  put  it  in 
a  wet  mold,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 

Orange  Jelly. — For  delicious  orange  jelly,  which  does  not  require  boiling,  take 
4  good-sized  oranges,  grate  the  rind  of  2  and  use  the  juice  and  pulp  of  2  lemons; 
take  )4  DOX  °f  gelatine,  and  soak  it  in  1  cup  of  cold  water;  sweeten  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  put  with  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  and  add  %  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Strain  into  molds. 

Orange  Jelly  {French). — Swell  2  oz.  of  gelatine  in  2  quarts  of  cold  water,  with 
12  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth;  strain 
through  a  wet  napkin  into  an  earthen  dish;  add  the  rind  of  4  very  fair  oranges, 
pared  very  thin;  cover,  and  partly  cool;  add  the  juice  of  8  oranges  and  2  lemons; 
strain,  and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients.  A  few  drops  of  yellow  coloring  is  an 
improvement.    It  is  then  ready  for  cooling. 

Peach  Cream. — Cut  the  contents  of  a  can  of  peaches  into  very  small  pieces;  dis- 
solve %  a  box  of  gelatine  by  heating  it  slowly,  on  the  back  of  the  range,  in  a 
coffee-cup  of  cold  water;  then  mix  the  fruit  and  gelatine,  and  when  partly  cooled, 
beat  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  until  stiff;  add  sugar  to  taste.  Mix  all  together  and 
pour  into  a  mold  to  harden. 

Pineapple  Cream. — Peel  and  shred  a  pineapple,  add  %  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  beat  till  stiff  1  cup  sweet  cream,  dissolve  1  oz.  isinglass 
in  a  little  hot  water;  mix  all  together  lightly  and  pour  into  a  mold;  serve  cold. 

Pineapple  Jelly. — (1)  Slice  pineapple  thinly,  sprinkle  it  with  sugar,  and  let 
stand  2  or  3  hours;  make  a  stiff  jelly  with  gelatine  and  when  cool  enough  to  begin 
to  thicken  put  a  layer  of  the  pineapple  in  a  glass  dish,  cover  it  with  the  jelly  and 
when  it  sets  add  more  fruit,  and  so  on  alternately  until  the  dish  is  full;  then 
set  on  ice.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  (2)  For  a  variety  alternate  layers  of 
pineapple  and  sliced  orange  can  be  used,  sprinkling  on  lemon  juice  and  sugar; 
serve  cold  without  cream. 

Prune  Jelly. — Soak  1  lb.  of  prunes  in  1  quart  of  water  3  hours;  drain  them, 
and  strain  the  water  in  which  you  soaked  them;  put  it  on  the  range,  with  1  lb.  of 
sugar,  and  let  it  boil  3^  hour.  Remove  the  stones  from  the  prunes  and  put  them 
into  the  boiling  syrup,  and  boil  it  up  again;  have  %  box  gelatine  which  has  been 
soaked  in  a  little  cold  water  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  prunes.  Pour  into  wet 
molds,  and  set  to  harden  in  a  cold  place.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  whipped 
cream.  If  desired  for  a  variety  the  juice  of  2  oranges  and  that  of  2  lemons,  with 
2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  can  be  added  with  the  gelatine, 


DESSERTS.  275 

Rice  Cream. — Thicken  a  pint  of  new  milk  with  rice  flour  to  the  consistency  of 
cream;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Put  %  ounce  of  gelatine  to  ^  pint  cold  water;  when  well  soaked  place  over  the 
fire  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  When  cold  beat  to  a  froth  with  an  egg-beater 
and  mix  with  an  egg.    This  is  excellent  for  inflammation  of  the  bowels. 

Russian  Jelly. — Dissolve  3  ounces  of  gelatine  in  5  cups  of  cold  water,  by  plac- 
ing it  over  a  moderate  heat;  when  warm  and  thoroughly  dissolved,  add  the  juice 
of  2  lemons,  and  sugar  to  taste;  stir  all  together  until  well  mixed,  and  the  sugar 
melted;  flavor  with  extract  of  anise  seed,  strain,  and  when  nearly  cold  beat  to  a 
froth  with  an  egg-beater,  then  pour  into  a  mold,  and  place  in  the  ice-chest  to 
harden.  A  little  raspberry,  or  other  fruit  juice  may  be  used  for  coloring,  if 
preferred. 

Russian  Cream. — The  Jelly. — To  1  package  of  gelatine  addl  pint  of  cold  water. 
When  dissolved  add  1  pint  of  hot  water,  2  cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  6  lemons.  Stir 
slowly  until  well  dissolved,  then  strain  into  molds.  The  Cream. — Cover  1  package  of 
gelatine  with  cold  water.  When  dissolved  add  1  cup  of  new  milk,  1  cup  sugar; 
heat  to  boiling  point,  stirring  frequently;  then  set  away  to  cool.  Whip  1  quart  of 
thick  cream  until  light,  beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs,  and  add  both  to  the  mixture; 
when  cool  flavor  with  vanilla.  Place  the  jelly  in  the  bottom  of  the  molds,  and 
when  stiff  and  cold  add  the  cream;  turn  out  of  mold  and  serve  in  slices. 

Strawberry  Jelly. — Mash  a  quart  of  strawberries,  add  a  coffee-cup  of  water,  and 
let  them  stand  where  they  will  become  hot,  but  not  boil,  while  %  a  box  of  gela- 
tine, in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  is  gradually  dissolving  and  heating,  on  the  back  of 
the  range.  Strain  the  strawberry  juice  into  the  gelatine,  and  add  sugar  to  taste; 
place  it  in  a  mold  to  harden  in  the  refrigerator.  The  juice  of  half  a  lemon  can 
be  added  if  desired,  and  it  can  be  served  plain,  or  with  whipped  cream  alone,  or 
with  whipped  cream  and  sponge  cake.  The  juice  of  other  berries  like  raspberries  or 
currants  can  be  used  if  desired,  sweetening  to  taste. 

Spanish  Cream. — Put  %  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  1%  pints  of  milk  and  soak  1% 
hours;  then  simmer  slowly,  and  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  with  1  cup  sugar; 
add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  any  flavoring  desired.  Let  the  mixture  cool  a  little,  and 
add  the  3  well-beaten  whites;  turn  in  glasses  or  custard-cups,  and  serve  cold. 

Snow  Pudding. — Use  1  pint  water,  1  cup  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  %  package 
of  gelatine;  dissolve  and  strain  into  cups  or  molds,  enough  for  each  person;  let  stand 
until  partly  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff,  and  stir  a  portion  into  each  cup 
with  a  fork;  it  will  look  exactly  like  snowflakes  all  over  the  pudding.  With  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  make  a  thin  custard  for  sauce.  Put  the  molded  pudding  into 
sauce  plates,  and  pour  the  custard  around  each  when  served.  Good  for  Sunday 
dinner,  as  it  can  be  made  Saturday  and  kept  in  a  cool  place,  and  is  better  than 
when  first  made. 

Velvet  Cream. — Soak  ^  box  gelatine  in  1  cup  warm  water,  adding  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons  and  2  cups  sugar;  heat  and  stir  till  it  dissolves,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil;  when  nearly  cold,  but  before  it  begins  to  stiffen,  add  the  cream 
and  beat  thoroughly  together  until  stiff;  then  pour  into  molds,  and  set  ou  ice  to 
harden.  Half  fill  the  molds  first  with  nice  strawberries,  if  desired,  for  a  variety. 
Vanilla  Cream. — Soak  1  ounce  of  gelatine  in  cold  water  1  hour,  drain  and  dis- 
solve in  a  little  hot  water.  Thoroughly  beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  and  beat  in  1 
quart  of  whipped  cream,  add  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  flavor  with  1%  teaspoons  of 
vanilla;  then  add  the  gelatine,  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and  pour  into  molds. 
Serve  very  cold  with  cream, 


ICE   CREAM,    WATER  ICES    AND 
SHERBETS. 

Ice  creams  and  ices  can  be  easily  prepared  at  home,  and  without  much  expense 
or  labor.  Many  people  do  not  realize  how  easily  many  wholesome  and  attractive 
dishes  can  be  prepared  in  this  way. 

Cream. — Cream  which  is  skimmed  off  of  milk  after  it  has  stood  12  hours  is 
called  single  cream;  that  which  is  taken  off  at  the»end  of  24  hours  is  called  double 
cream,  and  that  taken  off  at  the  end  of  36  hours  is  called  butter  cream.  The 
best  double  cream,  and  which  can  all  be  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  is  obtained  by 
letting  "single  cream"  stand  12  hours,  and  then  taking  off  the  richer  part.  The 
best  cream  to  use  is  "double  cream,"  the  next  best  is  "single  cream."  If  any 
milk  is  used  it  is  apt  to  give  the  ice  cream  a  mushy,  snowy  taste,  because  the 
water  it  contains  will  freeze  into  coarse  crystals,  and  it  melts  quicker  than  when 
pure  cream  is  used.  Gelatine  is  sometimes  added  to  such  cream  to  give  it  firm- 
ness and  disguise  the  milk.  There  are  many  so  called  ice  creams  made  with  corn- 
starch, etc.,  without  using  any  cream  at  all;  of  course  real  cream  is  superior  to  any 
substitute,  but  for  economy's  sake  the  substitutes  are  of  ten  used.  The  more  water 
and  less  cream  used,  the  easier  ices  are  frozen.  When  short  of  cream  it  is  well  to 
remember  that  to  add  a  little,  if  not  more  than  %  teacup,  is  always  better  than  to 
use  none. 

Condensed  Milk  can  be  used  by  mixing  it  with  scalded  milk  (1  can  of  con- 
densed milk  to  1%  quarts  of  scalded  milk)  making  it  into  a  thick  custard,  and 
freezing  it;  flavor  to  taste,  but  rather  highly. 

Sugar. — Double  refined  or  sifted  white  sugar  is  the  best  to  use.  See  what  we 
say  about  eggs  in  the  introduction  to  our  article  on  "Cake."  Ice  cream  should 
seem  quite  sweet  before  freezing,  as  when  frozen  it  seems  less  so. 

Arrow-root,  etc. — .A  little  arrow-root  added  to  the  plainer  creams  gives  them  a 
smooth  consistency,  but  the  best  creams  are  made  without  it.  Arrow -root  is  more 
delicate  and  better  to  use  than  corn-starch  or  flour  in  creams. 

Ice. — The  best  ice  to  use  is  snowy  ice  which  is  full  of  air-holes,  and  is  readily 
penetrated  by  the  salt.  The  ice  is  most  readily  broken  up  by  putting  it  in  a 
coarse  bag  or  coffee-sack,  and  pounding  it  with  an  ax  or  wooden  mallet  until  it  is 
broken  into  pieces  about  as  large  as  walnuts.  The  finer  it  is  broken  the  faster  it 
melts.  Snow  makes  an  excellent  substitute  for  ice,  and  in  winter  can  readily  be 
used.  Pack  it  firmly  into  the  freezer,  add  enough  water  to  make  it  into  a  thick 
mush,  and  then  put  in  the  salt.  The  proportion  is  about  2  to  3  parts  snow  or  ice, 
to  1  part  salt.  It  is  not  necessary  to  draw  off  the  water  as  fast  as  the  ice  melts, 
but  wait  until  it  floats  the  ice. 

Salt. — The  best  salt  to  use  is  Turk's  Island  salt;  rock  salt  is  next.  For  the 
first  freezing,  have  it  coarsely  ground,  and  have  it  in  small  lumps  for  the  "packing 
down"  after  the  freezing  is  done.  Fine  table  salt  melts  the  ice  too  rapidly  and  is 
not  suitable.  When  through  with  a  freezer,  any  salt  left  in  it  may  be  drained, 
dried,  and  used  again. 

Canned  fruits,  etc.,  when  used  in  creams,  should  be  opened  an  hour  before 
using,  and  turned  into  a  pitcher  to  aerate;  this  improves  their  flavor  very  much. 

For  extracting  lemon  juice  a  glass  squeezer  is  best.  If  a  metal  one  is  used, 
do  not  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  and  then  use  it  again  without  washing,  as  the 
acid  will  attack  the  metal,  and  so  taint  the  flavor. 

Orange  juice  can  be  extracted,  without  any  bitter  flavor,  by  cutting  the  orange 
in  two,  removing  the  pulp  with  a  teaspoon,  and  straining  it  through  a  piece  of 
clean  cheese  cloth. 

Flavoring. — Ice  creams  should  seem  quite  highly  flavored  before  being  frozen, 
as  after  freezing  they  will  seem  less  so. 

The  Freezer. — Buy  a  freezer  larger  than  you  actually  need  to  hold  the  cream 
to  be  frozen,    Cream  is  better  if  there  is  room  allowed  for  air,  and  this  is  espe- 


ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS.  277 

tsially  true  of  sherbets  and  water  ices;  besides  this  the  cream  expands  3^  to  %"  in 
freezing,  so  that  it  is  better  not  to  fill  the  can  more  than  %  full.  Less  ice  and 
salt  are  required  in  proportion  to  their  contents  by  large  than  by  small  freezers. 

When  not  in  use,  the  can  of  a  freezer  should  be  kept  uncovered.  After  being 
used  it  should  be  cleaned,  scalded,  and  thoroughly  dried  before  being  put  away. 

Freezing  the  Cream. — Before  beginning  to  freeze  ice  cream  let  it  stand  in  the 
freezing-can,  packed  with  ice,  but  covered  only  with  gauze,  until  it  is  thoroughly 
chilled;  if  this  is  done  it  will  freeze  more  readily  and  take  less  ice,  and,  also,  if  not 
cooked,  it  is  apt  to  become  granular,  or  curdle,  if  the  attempt  is  made  to  freeze  it 
while  warm  or  lukewarm. 

There  are  many  freezing-machines  on  the  market  which  are  nearly  equal  in 
value,  and  less  ice  is  required  by  them  than  by  an  open  pail.  Directions  for  using 
the  different  machines  are  furnished  with  them,  and  we  advise  those  who  can  do 
so  to  get  a  good  freezer  of  some  kind.  Those,  however,  who  have  no  freezer  can 
make  ices  by  using  a  tin  pail  with  a  close  cover,  and  setting  it  in  a  larger  pail 
which  holds  the  ice  and  salt.  First,  pack  in  solidly  a  layer  of  broken  ice  about  3 
inches  deep,  then  set  in  the  pail  containing  the  ice-cream  mixture,  and  pack  the 
ice  and  salt  around  it;  next  sprinkle  on  a  layer  of  salt,  then  about  3  times  as 
much  ice,  distributing  it  evenly,  and  packing  it  down  firmly,  then  more  salt,  and 
so  on  until  the  freezer  is  full,  covering  it  over  the  top  also,  and  then  cover  it  all 
over  with  an  old  carpet  or  blanket.  After  letting  it  chill  for  about  an  hour,  open 
up  the  can,  scrape  the  frozen  cream  from  the  sides,  and  beat  all  together  thor- 
oughly until  it  is  smooth;  the  quality  of  the  cream  depends  on  doing  this  thor- 
oughly; then  turn  off  the  brine,  put  on  fresh  ice  and  salt,  covering  it  over  the 
top,  lay  onthe  carpet,  and  leave  for  2  or  3  hours  until  frozen.  The  can  holding 
the  mixture  should  have  a  tight  lid,  so  that  not  a  drop  of  salt  or  brine  can  get 
into  the  cream. 

A  little  ice  cream  for  the  use  of  an  invalid  can  be  put  in  a  baking  powder  can 
or  tin  pail,  packed  in  salt  or  ice  for  10  minutes,  then  opened  and  stirred  well,  then 
let  stand  until  the  freezing  is  complete. 

Do  not  allow  ice  cream  or  fruit  ices  to  stand  long  in  tin  or  copper  vessels,  cer- 
tainly not  when  above  the  freezing  point,  for  the  melting  cream  will  decompose 
and  develop  lactic  acid,  which  will  attack  the  metal,  producing  a  poisonous  com- 
pound. 

Packing  Down. — Newly-frozen  ice  cream  is  apt  to  be  mushy,  and  lacks  flavor 
and  consistence,  so  that  after  being  frozen,  it  is  best  to  pack  it  down  and  let  it 
ripen  4  or  5  hours  before  it  is  served.  In  packing  down  ice  cream  which  is  to  be 
kept  some  time,  turn  off  the  brine,  pack  in  some  coarser  ice  and  salt,  and  cover 
with  an  old  carpet  or  blanket  wet  in  the  brine.  Keep  the  carpet  wet  by  rewet- 
ting  it  from  time  to  time,  as  then  much  less  ice  is  needed  because  the  evaporation 
keeps  it  cold.  As  long  as  any  ice  lasts  the  temperature  will  not  rise  above  the 
freezing  point. 

The  principles  involved  in  making  ice  cream  are  as  follows :  There  are  various  freezing 
mixtures  known  and  occasionally  used,  some  of  which  we  give  elsewhere,  but  for  our  pres- 
ent purpose  the  ingredients  almost  universally  relied  on  are  ice  and  salt.  All  freezing 
mixtures  have  some  solid  substance  which  turns  to  a  liquid,  and  in  so  doing  it  absorbs  heat 
from  the  surrounding  substances  and  so  reduces  their  temperature,  and  this  is  the  philo- 
sophical principle  underlying  the  whole  process.  The  ice  is  submitted  to  the  action  of  the 
salt,  which  has  a  great  affinity  for  it  and  melts  it  very  rapidly,  and  the  ice  in  turning  to 
water  withdraws  heat  rapidly  from  the  various  preparations  of  cream,  etc.,  which  are 
buried  in  it,  and  so  reduces  their  temperature  rapidly  and  freezes  them.  But  from  this  it 
will  be  clear  that  the  cream  will  not  freeze  until  the  ice  around  it  begins  to  melt.  So  also 
the  smaller  the  pieces  of  ice  the  more  readily  the  salt  will  act  on  them  and  melt  them.  It  is 
a  mistake  to  think  that  the  freezing  needs  to  be  done  in  a  cold  place.  In  a  warm  room  the 
ice  melts  more  rapidly,  and  so  draws  the  heat  more  rapidly  from  the  mixture  submitted  to 
its  action;  but  if  the  cream  is  kept  after  being  frozen,  it  should  be  in  a  cool  place,  of 
course. 

The  object  of  the  continual  stirring  of  the  ice  cream  is  to  keep  the  ingredients  from 
separating,  and  the  heaviest  of  them  from  settling  to  the  bottom,  while  any  cream  which 
washes  up  against  the  side  of  the  can  and  freezes  must  be  scraped  off  and  mixed  in  with  the 
balance  of  the  contents.  Unless  the  contents  are  thoroughly  stirred  before  the  freezing 
takes  place  the  whole  will  be  spoiled;  either  lumps  will  form,  disfiguring  and  discoloring  it, 
or  the  sugar  will  settle  to  the  bottom,  leaving  the  contents  imperfectly  sweetened.  It  is  a 
mistake  to  turn  the  dasher  of  a  freezing  machine  rapidly,  as  that  prevents  the  cream  from 
being  smooth;  turn  it  fast  enough  to  accomplish  the  above  objects,  but  that  is  all. 

Molds. — Molds  are  prepared  to  form  the  cream  into  many  fanciful  shapes.  If 
they  are  used,  after  freezing  the  ice  cream  press  it  into  them  firmly,  so  that  there 
are  no  air  spaces,  have  the  cover  firmly  pressed  down,  wrap  buttered  paper  around 


278  ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS. 

the  joint,  and  bury  them  in  ice  and  salt.  When  ready  to  serve  them,  wash  off 
the  brine,  take  off  the  cover,  turn  the  mold  on  to  a  dish,  and  the  ice  cream  will 
soon  slip  out  if  the  room  is  warm.  The  molds  are  sometimes  dipped  in  warm  water 
to  loosen  the  contents,  but  this  is  apt  to  melt  the  cream  too  much,  and  make  it 
run  down  the  sides  and  disfigure  it. 

If  it  is  desired  to  use  2  colors,  freeze  them  separately,  fit  a  piece  of  card-board 
into  the  mold  which  is  to  be  filled,  pack  in  1  kind  of  ice  cream  on  each  side,  with- 
draw the  card-board,  and  set  the  mold  on  ice. 

Coloring  lees. — For  coloring  ices  and  creams,  caramel  can  be  used,  or  the 
amber  color  and  some  of  the  others  mentioned  under  "Colorings  for  Frostings" 
(which  see).    Only  vegetable  colors  should  be  used. 

Simple  Syrup  can  be  made  by  putting  2  lbs.  of  the  best  lump  sugar  to  1  quart 
of  water;  stir  occasionally  till  it  dissolves,  bring  to  a  boil,  take  off  any  scum  as  it 
rises,  draw  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently.  If  boiled  too  fast  it 
troubles  an  inexperienced  operator,  as  it  will  candy.  Should  this  happen,  add 
more  water  and  boil  again  till  the  requisite  strength  is  attained.  Test  it  by  let- 
ting a  drop  fall  into  a  glass  of  cold  water;  if  it  retains  its  shape  it  will  answer. 
When  cold,  bottle  and  keep  for  use.  It  will  keep  any  length  of  time,  and  can  be 
used  for  many  purposes. 

When  too  much  syrup  is  present  a  mixture  will  not  freeze  readily.  The  rem- 
edy is  to  thin  it  with  a  proportionate  quantity  of  liquid,  according  to  the  descrip- 
tion of  ice  you  are  making. 

PHILADELPHIA  ICE  CREAM. 

Philadelphia  ice  creams,  so-called,  are  those  which  are  made  without  eggs 
(those  made  with  eggs  are  called  Neapolitan  creams)  and  many  people  prefer  the 
Philadelphia  creams  to  any  others,  as  they  have  a  light,  snowy  texture. 

Methods  of  Making. — There  are  2  ways  of  making  ice  cream — one  is  by  cook- 
ing  and  the  other  is  without  cooking  the  cream  and  sugar.  It  is  a  little  less  work 
to  make  it  without  cooking,  and  the  texture  is  white  and  snowy,  but  cooking  not 
only  prevents  any  tendency  to  curdling,  but  also  gives  the  cream  more  richness 
and  body.  If  the  cream  is  cooked,  put  it  in  a  double  boiler,  set  it  on  the  stove  and 
stir  often ;  take  it  off  the  stove  when  the  water  in  the  outer  pan  boils,  add  the 
flavors  and  sugar,  stirring  it  till  the  sugar  dissolves;  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes, 
strain,  and  put  it  into  the  freezing-can  and  freeze. 

If  uncooked  cream  is  used,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  whip  a  part  of  it,  chill  it,  and 
stir  it  in  just  as  the  freezing  cream  is  beginning  to  set. 

The  cooked  cream  is  rich  and  solid;  the  uncooked  is  snowy  and  lighter  in 
color,  and  when  part  of  the  cream  is  whipped  it  is  very  white  and  delicate,  and 
suitable  to  put  in  molds  to  decorate  the  table. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream  No.  1. — Take  1  quart  of  rich  cream,  1  heaping  cup 
(which  equals  %  lb.)  of  sugar,  and  flavor  to  taste.  This  makes  the  simplest  form 
of  ice  cream,  and  these  materials  form  the  basis,  and  the  above  are  the  standard 
proportions  for  all  the  best  Philadelphia  ice  creams. 

We  give  1  or  2  other  recipes  for  Philadelphia  ice  cream  which  are  sometimes 
used: 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream  No.  2. — Mix  together  2  quarts  of  thick  cream  and  1 
pint  of  milk  and  %  lb.  of  sugar;  dissolve  1. tablespoon  of  soda  in  4  tablespoons  of 
hot  water,  cool  it,  and  add  to  the  cream  just  before  freezing.  Flavor  to  suit 
the  taste. 

Recipe  No.  3. — Heat  3  cups  of  fresh  milk,  and  when  it  comes  to  the  scalding- 
point  have  ready  2  tablespoons  of  arrow-root  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk  and 
add  it;  when  of  the  consistency  of  cream,  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool,  stirring 
frequently  to  prevent  lumping;  add  this  custard  to  X%  quarts  of  well-whipped 
cream,  and  1%  cups  sugar;  flavor  to  taste  and  freeze. 


ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS.  279 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM. 

Method  of  Making. — To  make  cooked  Neapolitan  cream,  proceed  as  fol- 
lows: Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  again;  then  stir  in  the 
well-beaten  whites  and  mix  all  into  the  cream.  Cook  it  over  a  good  fire,  in  a 
double  boiler,  with  continual  stirring,  until  a  knife-blade  dipped  into  it  will  be 
slightly  coated  without  its  running,  but  do  not  let  it  curdle;  then  remove  from 
the  fire,  strain,  let  stand  until  cold,  and  put  into  the  freezing-can.  This  method 
is  best  suited  for  caramel,  chocolate,  coffee,  vanilla  and  nut  ice  creams.  Should 
the  custard  curdle  while  being  cooked  do  not  throw  it  away,  as  if  well  frozen,  it 
will  come  out  smooth. 

There  is  a  simple  rule  with  regard  to  the  use  of  sugar  in  these  creams  which  it 
will  be  convenient  to  know.  Use  %  lb.  (or  1  heaping  cup)  of  sugar  to  sweeten  each 
quart  of  cream;  2  quarts  of  cream  would  therefore  require  1  lb.  (or  2  cups)  of  sugar, 
and  so  on.  Anywhere  from  1  to  6  eggs  are  used  for  each  quart  of  cream,  and 
more  sugar  is  required  to  sweeten  eggs  than  cream,  the  rule  being  %  lb.  of  sugar 
to  every  12  eggs— as  the  number  of  eggs  vary,  alter  the  amount  of  sugar  to  cor- 
respond; thus  1  quart  of  cream  and  6  eggs  would  require  %  lb.  of  sugar,  and 
so  on. 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  No.  1. — Take  6  eggs,  1  quart  of  cream,  %  lb.  of  sugar; 
flavor  to  taste  and  prepare  it  as  directed  in  the  above  paragraph.  This  is  the 
standard  formula  for  the  best  Neapolitan  cream  made  by  confectioners.  Various 
flavors  are  used,  as  vanilla,  coffee,  chocolate  and  caramel,  and  nuts  may  also  be 
introduced,  like  filberts,  almonds,  etc.,  and  such  fruits  as  apricot,  cherry  and 
peach,  thus  giving  variety  to  the  cream. 

While  the  above  is  the  standard  formula,  used  by  first-class  confectioners,  and 
it  makes  the  richest  and  best  cream,  many  other  combinations  are  used,  and  the 
cooking  is  often  dispensed  with.    We  give  2  or  3  sample  recipes. 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream  No.  2. — Take  1  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  6  oz. 
of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  of  arrow-root;  scald  until  it  thickens.  When  it  is  cool 
add  1  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth; 
flavor  to  taste,  and  freeze. 

Recipe  No.  3. — Take  1  quart  of  rich  milk  or  milk  and  cream,  4  eggs  and  4 
tablespoons  of  sugar;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  stir  it  into  the  milk  or 
cream,  cool,  flavor  and  freeze. 

Recipe  No.  4. — Picnic  ice  cream.  Take  3  pints  of  milk,  1  pint  cream,  V/%  cups 
sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  flavor  and  freeze  without  cooking. 
It  can  be  made  and  served  in  1  hour. 

VARIOUS  FLAVORED  ICE  CREAMS. 

Variety  in  ice  creams  is  produced  mainly  by  varying  the  flavors.  One  of  the 
recipes  which  we  have  given  for  either  the  Philadelphia  or  Neapolitan  ice  creams 
can  be  used  as  the  basis,  and  by  using  different  flavors  an  endless  variety  of 
creams  can  be  produced.  We  give  directions  following  for  making  many  of  the 
best  and  most  popular  of  the  flavors  in  use.  All  that  is  needed  is  to  prepare  the 
icecream  by  one  of  the  recipes  which  we  have  previously  given,  and  flavor  it 
with  any  desired  flavor,  according  to  the  directions  given. 

Almond  Ice  Cream. — After  blanching  the  almonds  pound  them  to  a  paste, 
adding  a  little  rose-water  to  prevent  their  oiling;  then  add  it  to  any  of  the 
above  icecreams  for  flavor.  Use  about  3  oz.  almonds  to  the  quart  of  ice  cream. 
Another  flavor  is  produced  by  blanching  the  almonds,  roasting  them  in  the 
oven  to  a  golden  brown,  and  pounding  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  mortar  with  a 
little  sugar  and  cream. 


280  ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS. 

Baked  Apple  Ice  Cream. -'-Use  6  good  sized  sweet  apples  to  1  quart  of  ice 
cream;  bake  the  apples,  pass  them  through  a  sieve,  sweeten,  stir  it  in  the  cream, 
and  freeze. 

Banana  Ice  Cream. — Put  3  cups  milk  into  a  double  boiler  and  bring  to  a  boil; 
then  add  1  heaping  cup  of  sugar  and  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of  arrow-root  dis- 
solved in  cold  milk;  when  it  forms  a  thick  custard  take  from  the  stove  and  cool; 
when  cold,  add  1  pint  of  cream  and  6  thinly  sliced  bananas,  and  freeze. 

Bisque  Ice  Cream.— This  is  cream  to  which  something  is  added  to  give  it 
roughness,  like  nuts  or  powdered  macaroons:  Dissolve  1  cup  sugar  in  1%  quarts 
of  cream;  add  %  cup  caramel  and  %  cup  hickory-nut  meats,  chopped  fine;  then 
freeze.    Other  combinations  can  be  used. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream. — Use  about  3  tablespoons  of  caramel  for  each  quart  of  ice 
cream.  See  our  directions  for  making  caramel.  A  little  less  sugar  will  be  needed 
when  caramel  is  used.    This  is  highly  esteemed  by  many  persons. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. — Use  about  4  to  5  ounces  of  chocolate  to  the  quart  of  ice 
cream.  It  should  be  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk.  A  little  vanilla  is  also 
added  often,  and  a  little  cinnamon  gives  it  spicy  flavor;  steep  the  cinnamon  in 
warm  water,  and  use  the  clear  liquid  for  flavoring.  Or,  for  variety,  a  little  cara- 
mel can  be  used  instead  of  the  cinnamon  flavor.  That  makes  a  chocolate  caramel 
ice  cream,  and  many  people  like  it. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream. — Use  about  4  tablespoons  of  very  strong  coffee  to  each  quart 
of  ice  cream.  If  preferred,  ground  coffee  can  be  boiled  with  the  milk.  A  little 
arrow -root  is  sometimes  added  with  coffee  cream. 

Tea  Ice  Cream. — Strong  tea  can  also  be  used  for  a  flavor  the  same  as  coffee. 

Fruit  Ice  Cream. — Soft  fruit,  like  raspberries  or  strawberries,  should  be 
mashed,  sweetened,  strained  through  a  colander  or  not,  as  preferred,  and  stirred 
into  the  ice  cream  when  partly  frozen.  Firm  fleshed  fruit,  like  peach,  apricot, 
plum,  etc.,  should  be  cut  into  small  pieces,  sugar  added,  allowed  to  stand  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  then  stirred  into  the  cream  when  it  is  partly  frozen. 

Preserved  Fruit  and  Jams  can  be  used  instead  of  fresh  fruit  for  ice  cream. 
For  water  ices  fresh  fruits  should  always  be  used.  If  the  juice  or  fruits  are 
deficient  in  flavor  add  lemon  juice. 

Fruit  Juice  Ice  Cream. — Mix  any  desired  fruit  juice  with  sugar  to  form  a  clear 
syrup,  and  then  beat  it  into  the  ice  cream  after  it  is  frozen,  or  stir  it  in  after 
beginning  the  freezing.  Fruit  juice  should  never  be  cooked  with  the  cream  or 
milk.    Use  1  cup  of  the  prepared  juice  to  1  quart  of  cream. 

Gelatine  in  Ice  Creams. — Use  %  oz-  ot  gelatine  to  2  quarts  of  custard,  (soak- 
ing it  in  a  little  cold  milk)  and  dissolve  it  in  the  boiling  custard  just  before  tak- 
ing it  off  the  stove.  The  gelatine  should  be  disguised  by  high  flavoring;  it  is 
used  to  help  the  molding  of  thin  creams. 

Lemon  Ice  Cream. — Grate  the  rind  of  1  lemon  into  1%  cups  of  sugar  which 
will  extract  the  volatile  oil;  then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  stir  in  1  quart  of 
cream;  strain  and  freeze  at  once  or  the  acid  will  turn  the  cream.  Or  lemon 
extract  can  be  used  to  flavor  our  recipe  for  Philadelphia  ice  cream.. 

Macaroon  and  Brown  Bread  Ice  Cream. — Dry  the  brown  bread,  pound  or 
crumble  it,  sift  it  through  a  sieve,  and  beat  it  into  the  ice  cream  when  partly 
frozen. 

Macaroons  can  be  roasted  to  a  bright  brown,  crushed,  sifted  and  stirred  in  in 
the  same  way. 

Nut  Ice  Cream. — Take  walnuts,  hazel-nuts,  or  similar  nuts,  chop  fine,  and  stir 


ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS.  281 

them  into  the  ice  cream  when  it  is  partly  frozen.  Or  they  may  be  pounded  in  a 
mortar  to  a  fine  paste  and  then  used. 

Orange  Ice  cream. — Use  oranges  same  as  directed  for  lemon  ice  cream. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream. — To  each  quart  of  ice  cream  allow  1  large  pineapple; 
pare,  slice,  cut  it  very  fine,  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish  and  sprinkle  with  sugar;  cover  the 
dish,  and  let  it  stand  2  or  3  hours;  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  mashing  and 
pressing  out  all  the  juice;  stir  it  gradually  into  the  cream,  beating  well.  A  few 
slices  of  pineapple  can  be  retained  unsugared,  if  desired,  then  cut  into  dice  and 
when  the  cream  is  frozen  stir  them  in. 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream. — Use  ~%  cup  pistachio-nuts  to  1  quart  of  cream;  blanch 
the  nuts,  put  them  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  fine  paste,  adding  a  little  rose- 
water,  and  a  little  sugar  and  cream;  then  add  it  to  the  ice  cream.  As  pistachio- 
nuts  are  costly,  almonds  make  a  good  substitute  for  them. 

Tutti  Frutti  Ice  Cream. — This  is  an  Italian  name  meaning  simply  "all  fruits." 
Any  kind  of  candied  or  crystallized  fruit  can  be  chopped  fine  and  stirred  into  the 
ice  cream  when  it  is  partly  frozen;  or  home-made  preserves,  with  the  syrup 
drained  out,  and  chopped  up,  can  be  used.  Mix  any  kinds  of  fruit  you  have,  or 
desire  to  use  to  get  a  good  effect,  as  pineapples,  plums,  pears,  cherries,  etc. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream. — Use  1  tablespoon  of  vanilla  extractor  %  ounce  of  vanilla 
sugar  to  each  quart  of  ice  cream.  For  making  vanilla  sugar  see  the  introduction 
to  "Cake."  It  should  be  introduced  while  the  cream  is  cooking,  and  fully  dis- 
solve.   This  is  one  of  the  most  popular  creams. 

Macedoines. — These  are  formed  by  mixing  2  or  more  fruits.  Those  should  be 
selected  whose  flavors  harmonize,  as  strawberry  and  lemon;  orange  and  apple; 
apricot  and  peach;  pineapple  and  orange;  grape  and  plum,  etc. 

Nesselrode  Pudding. — Scald  in  a  double  boiler,  1  quart  of  rich  milk — the  more 
cream  it  has  the  better;  then  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar  beaten  to 
a  cream,  and  2  cups  chestnuts  which  have  been  shelled,  blanched,  boiled  30  min- 
utes, and  mashed  to  a  pulp;  strain,  put  it  into  the  freezer,  and  when  partly 
frozen  stir  in  2  cups  of  any  fruit  liked — berries,  stoned  cherries,  currants  or 
peaches — and  finish  freezing;  it  should  stand  2  or  3  hours  before  serving,  to 
ripen. 

Iced  Strawberry  Pudding. — Boil  2  heaping  cups  of  sugar  and  2  cups  water 
together  for  30  minutes,  watching  carefully  that  it  does  not  get  too  thick.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  6  eggs  very  light,  and  add  to  the  boiling  syrup;  stir  a  moment  over 
the  fire,  then  turn  into  a  large  bowl,  and  beat  continually  until  cold  and  thick 
like  a  sponge-cake  batter;  then  add  1  pint  of  strawberry  juice  and  freeze.  Other 
fruit  juices  can  be  used  instead  of  strawberry  if  desired,  and  so  produce  varieties. 

Mousse. — This  is  a  French  word  meaning  moss,  and  is  applied  to  cream  so 
frozen  as  to  give  it  a  mossy  look.  Make  it  as  follows:  In  1  cup  cold  water  soak 
%  box  gelatine,  and  then  set  it  over  hot  water  to  dissolve;  whip  2  cups  of  cream, 
turn  it  into  a  basin,  add  the  gelatine  and  %  cup  of  powdered  sugar;  add  the  fla- 
voring, and  stir  carefully  from  the  bottom  towards  the  top  until  it  begins  to 
stiffen;  have  a  mold  ready,  wet  with  cold  water,  turn  in  the  mousse,  lay  on  a 
piece  of  greased  writing  paper,  turned  greased  side  up,  fit  on  the  cover  tightly, 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  1  hour.  Or  it  can  be  put  into  a  freezer  and  frozen  until 
it  begins  to  thicken,  then  put  in  the  molds,  and  packed  in  salt  and  ice.  Flavor  it 
with  vanilla,  or  any  flavoring  desired,  and  also  stir  finely-chopped  fruit  in  it  if 
desired,  the  same  as  in  ice  cream. 

Frozen  Fruit. — Cut  firm-fleshed  fruits  like  peaches,  pineapples,  apples,  etc., 


282  ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS. 

into  dice;  grapes,  plums,  etc.,  should  be  stoned  and  chopped,  but  strawberries 
and  raspberries  need  not  be  crushed.  Add  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  when  that  is 
dissolved  put  them  in  the  freezer  and  freeze.  If  desired,  a  little  whipped  cream 
can  be  added  when  they  are  partly  frozen,  but  they  are  delicious  without  it. 

Fruit  Molds. — Take  molds,  line  them  with  ice  cream,  and  into  the  center  put 
any  fruit  liked,  cut  into  dice;  or  fill  with  berries,  if  preferred;  put  ice  cream  over 
all,  press  down  the  cover,  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt.  Chill  the  fruit  thus,  but  do 
not  freeze  it. 

WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS. 

Water  ices  and  sherbets  (sherbet  means  a  drink)  are  all  composed  of  the  juice 
of  fruit,  sugar  and  water.  They  vary  much  in  richness  from  the  ordinary  lemon- 
ade which  has  been  frozen,  up  to  those  composed  of  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  pure 
fruit  juice.  They  have  been  less  popular  than  ice  cream  because  they  not  only 
become  soft  and  spongy  and  melt  soon  on  exposure  to  the  air,  but  as  ordinarily 
made  they  are  often  lumpy,  have  a  gritty  taste,  and  a  texture  like  a  stiffened 
compound  of  flavored  water  and  snow.  If  the  following  method  is  pursued  they 
can  be  made  much  like  ice  cream  in  texture,  being  firm,  smooth  and  delicious. 

Method  of  Making  Water  Ices  and  Sherbets. — Cook  the  water  and  sugar  to  a 
clear  syrup  in  a  double  boiler,  take  off  the  scum,  strain  it  (using  fine  muslin 
cloth  for  the  strainer),  and  let  it  cool;  then  add  the  other  materials  (fruit  juice, 
etc.)  and  put  all  into  the  freezer,  pack  in  the  ice  and  salt,  and  freeze  it.  It  will 
take  rather  longer  to  freeze  than  ice  cream,  but  slowly  turn  the  crank  until  the 
contents  become  stiff;  then  the  can  should  be  opened,  the  sides  scraped  down, 
and  all  stirred  till  smooth;  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  with  1  teaspoon  of  pulver- 
ized sugar  beaten  with  it,  should  then  be  added,  and  worked  in  till  smooth. 
This  amount  of  egg  and  sugar  will  be  sufficient  for  4  quarts  of  sherbet.  Then 
let  the  brine  off,  pack  again  with  ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand  2  or  3  hours  to  ripen, 
covered  with  a  carpet  wet  in  brine,  keeping  it  wet.  Then  open  it,  beat  again  and 
again  pack  down.  Fruit  jellies,  when  used,  should  be  melted  very  carefully  in 
water,  then  cooled,  and  frozen  as  just  explained. 

If  the  granular  kind  of  ices  are  preferred,  the  cooking  should  be  omitted,  the 
ingredients  mixed  and  then  frozen;  also  omit  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar  added 
last  as  above  directed  for  finish.  Some  people  dissolve  a  little  gelatine  and  add 
it  to  water  ices,  as  it  makes  them  smooth. 

In  preparing  water  ices  remember  that  too  much  sugar  prevents  freezing,  and 
too  little  makes  them  brittle. 

Ices  are  not  considered  very  wholesome.  They  should  not  be  taken  at  once 
after  violent  exercise,  nor  while  very  warm,  and  they  are  apt  to  retard  digestion 
if  taken  while  that  is  going  on. 

Granites  and  Frappes  (pronounced  frap-pay)  are  formed  by  mixing  the  ingre- 
dients without  cooking,  and  only  about  half  freezing  them,  so  that  they  are  like 
wet  snow.  The  ingredients  used  are  fruit  juice,  sugar  and  water,  the  same  as 
for  water  ices  and  sherbets. 

Orange  Ice. — Take  12  fine  juicy  oranges,  squeeze  out  the  juice  and  pour  a 
little  boiling  water  on  the  pulp  to  extract  the  juice  from  that;  add  the  juice  of  2 
lemons,  the  grated  rind  of  2  oranges,  l^Bbs.  of  sugar,  and  1  quart  of  water;  strain 
and  freeze.    When  about  half  frozen  add  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 

Lemon  Ice  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  may  need  more  sugar. 

Pineapple  Ice. — Mix  1  can  of  chopped  pineapple,  2  cups  sugar,  and  2  cups  of 
water;  then  freeze.  Or  2  cups  fresh  fruit  can  be  used  instead  of  the  canned.  A 
little  lemon  or  orange  juice  or  both  are  sometimes  added  to  improve  the  flavor. 
A  little  gelatine  dissolved  and  strained  is  also  added  sometimes. 

Strawberry  Ice. — Mix  2  cups  of  strawberry  juice,  2  cups  of  sugar  and  3  cups 
of  cold  water.  Soak  1  tablespoon  of  gelatine  in  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  then 
add  2  tablespoons  of  boiling  water  and  when  thoroughly  dissolved  strain  and  mix 
with  the  strawberry  juice  and  sugar;  then  freeze.  In  winter  strawberry  shrub 
may  be  used  in  place  of  the  juice  and  it  will  be  nearly  as  good,  but  it  should  be 


.  ICE  CREAM,  WATER  ICES  AND  SHERBETS.  283 

colored  with  a  little  cochineal.  Other  fruit  juices  can  be  used  instead  of  the 
strawberry,  and  thus  a  variety  produced. 

Ginger  Sherbet. — Make  and  freeze  a  lemon  water  ice;  stir  into  it  4  oz.  of  pre- 
served ginger,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  2  tablespoons  of  the  ginger  syrup,  and 
pack  down. 

Lemon  Sherbet. — -Take  4  cups  water,  2  cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  6  lemons,  and 
1  tablespoon  of  gelatine.  The  gelatine  should  be  dissolved  in  part  of  the  water, 
added  to  the  other  ingredients,  strained,  and  frozen. 

Milk  Sherbet. — Mix  1  quart  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons; 
then  freeze. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. — Take  1  can  of  sliced  pineapples,  cut  it  in  very  small 
pieces,  and  cook  until  soft;  add  the  juice  of  4  lemons  (strained)  and  1  cup  sugar; 
cool,  and  add  ^  lb.  of  candied  cherries  cut  in  small  pieces;  add  cold  water  enough 
to  make  the  mixture  3  quarts.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  very  stiff  and  mix  with 
the  sherbet  just  before  freezing,  and  freeze  at  once.  This  amount  will  serve  20 
persons. 

Various  Sherbets. — If  2  cups  of  fruit  juice  are  used  to  2  lbs.  of  sugar  and  3 
pints  water,  and  it  is  cooked  and  prepared  as  directed  in  the  "Method  of  Making 
Water  Ices  and  Sherbets,"  very  fine  sherbets  can  be  made.  Raspberry,  strawberry, 
currant,  apple,  cherry,  grape  and  pineapple  juice,  all  work  well;  or  jelly  can  be 
used  as  there  directed,  but  it  takes  rather  more  of  the  jelly  than  of  the  juice. 
The  pulp  of  peach,  apricot  and  nectarine  can  be  used  instead  of  the  juice.  The 
amount  of  sweetening  can  be  altered  if  any  of  the  juices  require  it. 

Sorbet. — Take  1  quart  water  and  2  cups  sugar,  and  boil  together  for  20  min- 
utes; then  add  1  cup  orange  juice,  %  CUP  lemon  juice,  and  1  can  of  grated  pine- 
apple; cool,  strain,  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Serve  as  soon  as  possible  after  freezing. 
This  can  be  varied  by  substituting  1  pint  of  strawberry  or  raspberry  juice  for  the 
other  flavors. 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING. 

Candy  can  be  made  at  home  for  %  its  cost  at  stores,  and  when  so  made  you 
know  it  is  pure,  which  unfortunately  is  not  the  case  with  some  Of  that  sold  by 
the  trade.  Ladies  who  delight  in  making  cake,  preserves,  etc.,  may  easily  add 
this  to  their  other  accomplishments.  A  few  failures  at  first  should  cause  no  dis- 
couragement, as  knowledge  comes  by  experience.  As  candy  will  absorb  moist- 
ure from  the  air  in  damp  weather,  which  interferes  with  its  hardening,  choose 
dry  weather  to  make  it. 

The  Materials  and  Tools. — Confectioner's  powdered  sugar  is  the  best  to  use 
for  uncooked  candies,  as  it  is  prepared  expressly  for  this  purpose.  It  is  a  kind  of 
powdered  sugar  much  finer  than  the  ordinary  powdered  sugar.  When  the  con- 
fectioner's sugar  is  not  easily  obtained  the  ordinary  powdered  or  fine  granulated 
can  be  used.  For  the  kind  of  sugar  to  use  for  cooked  candies  see  what  we  say 
under  "Fondant." 

Have  nuts  or  fruit  thoroughly  dry  before  using  them  in  candy.  Slightly  salt- 
ing most  nuts  before  using  them  will  improve  the  flavor  of  the  candy.  If  almonds 
are  to  be  pounded  they  will  pulverize  more  readily  if  after  being  blanched  they 
are  well  dried  in  an  open  oven. 

Oil,  or  washed  butter,  is  the  best  to  use  in  greasing  tins  for  delicate  candies 
like  macaroons,  kisses  or  ratafias,  as  salted  butter  or  lard  is  apt  to  impart  an 
unpleasant  taste. 

Porto  Rico  molasses  of  a  medium  grade  is  best  for  candy;  or  use  the  best  New 
Orleans  molasses. 

Unsweetened  chocolate  can  be  used  for  caramels  and  similar  candies,  but  con- 
fectioner's sweetened  chocolate  is  better  to  use  to  dip  candies  in. 

Many  ladies  are  bewildered  by  the  list  of  tools  and  their  names,  but  good 
results  can  be  obtained  with  a  small  sauce-pan,  and  a  silver  spoon  and  fork, 
although  a  few  other  things  are  an  advantage  and  can  be  obtained  if  candy  is  to 
be  made  often.  The  sauce-pan  should  not  be  iron,  but  brass,  copper,  tin  or 
enamel  will  do;  2  or  3  small  wooden  paddles  will  be  useful.  A  thermometer  cost- 
ing $2.00  to  $2.50  for  testing  sugar  will  be  convenient  if  much  candy  is  made,  but 
as  there  are  other  tests  it  is  not  essential.  A  marble  slab  with  a  smooth  top  will 
be  a  convenience,  but  a  large  meat  plate  can  be  used  for  small  quantities  if  you 
haven't  that.  Candy  tongs  and  candy  dippers  will  also  be  an  advantage,  and  so 
will  a  stout  candy  hook  fastened  to  the  wall  on  which  to  pull  candies.  Any 
blacksmith  can  make  such  a  hook,  using  %  inch  iron,  about  14  inches  long,  bend- 
ing it  into  the  shape  of  a  fish  hook,  sharpening  the  point,  and  flattening  the  other 
end  and  boring  3  screw  holes  in  it.    Fasten  it  up  about  5  feet  from  the  floor. 

In  making  candy  use  a  vessel  deep  enough  to  hold  it  when  it  boils  up,  and  lift 
it  from  the  fire  when  it  is  in  danger  of  boiling  over.  Watch  carefully  to  keep  it 
from  burning. 

In  pulling  candy  have  the  hands  well  greased,  throw  the  candy  over  the  hook 
and  pull  it  towards  you;  as  a  rule,  take  hold  of  the  candy  firmly,  and  make  that 
move  without  sliding  the  hands  over  it  or  you  will  blister  the  hands;  as  soon  as 
the  candy  seems  likely  to  break,  throw  it  over  the  hook  again,  and  continue  pull- 
ing it  thus  until  it  is  white  and  nearly  cold. 

Greasing  the  hands  is  better  than  flouring  them  when  handling  candy,  as  the 
flour  is  apt  to  unpleasantly  affect  its  flavor. 

Coloring. — For  this  use  vegetable  colors  only,  and  they  are  better  prepared  at 
home  than  when  bought  at  the  stores.  For  preparing  various  colors  see  "Frost- 
ing" for  cakes.  For  amber  or  light  brown,  use  a  little  caramel.  For  carmine  or 
pink,  use  some  of  the  cochineal.  For  green  use  more  or  less  of  the  spinach  green, 
according  to  the  shade  desired.  For  yellow  use  saffron,  or  grated  orange  rind, 
which  is  better,  and  so  on.    Only  a  little  coloring  matter  is  needed. 

Flavorings. — These  should  be  selected  with  care.  Flavorings  for  fondant 
should  be  as  strong  as  possible  and  then  use  but  little,  because  fondant  liquifies 
so  easily.    Many  of  the  flavorings  given  in  our  article  on  flavorings  can  be  used, 

(284) 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING.  285 

The  tea,  Bedford,  laurel  and  citronelle,  will  be  found  excellent.  If  chocolate  is 
used  it  will  be  an  advantage  to  add  a  little  vanilla.  For  ordinary  candies  5  cents 
worth  of  oil  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  wintergreen,  lemon  or  peppermint  will  flavor 
50  lbs.  of  candy.  Add  flavors  the  last  thing,  or  when  the  candy  is  nearly  cold,  as 
their  strength  is  wasted  if  added  while  it  is  hot. 

Boiling  Sugar. — In  boiling  sugar  it  is  well  to  understand  the  different 
"degrees,"  as  the  confectioners  call  them,  through  which  the  sugar  passes.  There 
are  12  of  these  degrees  called  small  thread,  large  thread,  little  pearl,  large  pearl, 
the  blow,  the  feather,  the  soft  ball,  the  hard  ball,  the  soft  crack,  the  crack,  the 
hard  crack,  and  the  caramel.  Let  us  examine  this  a  little,  but  remember  that  in 
handling  sugar  skilfully  much  judgment  is  needed.  Suppose  we  put  on  the 
stove  3  lbs.  of  sugar  and  2  cups  of  water  and  stir  it  until  it  dissolves.  After  boil- 
ing a  few  minutes  it  will  approach  the  first  degree  called  thread,  and  as  it  passes 
from  one  degree  to  another  quite  rapidly,  it  must  be  watched  closely  and  tested 
often,  but  without  stirring  it. 

The  thread  degree  is  known  by  dipping  the  forefinger  into  the  syrup,  or 
touching  it  to  the  syrup  adhering  to  a  small  stick  which  has  been  dipped  in;  then 
touch  the  forefinger  with  the  thumb,  and  draw  the  fingers  apart;  if  a  fine  thread 
is  formed  which  breaks  at  a  short  distance,  and  remains  on  the  finger  and  thumb 
as  a  drop,  it  has  reached  the  small  thread.  Boil  a  little  longer,  repeat  the  test, 
and  a  longer  thread  will  be  drawn,  known  as  the  large  thread.  This  is  the  finger 
test.    A  thermometer  will  show  about  220°. 

The  pearl  degree  is  tested  the  same  Way.  When  the  thread  reaches  from  the 
thumb  to  the  finger,  without  breaking,  as  they  are  drawn  apart,  it  has  reached  the 
small  pearl,  and  when  it  will  spin  across  as  far  as  the  thumb  and  finger  can  be 
separated,  it  has  reached  the  large  pearl.  Another  sign  is  that  the  syrup  shows 
bubbles  on  the  surface,  but  this  is  more  of  a  hint  than  a  test.  The  thermometer 
will  show  226°. 

The  blow  degree  is  tested  by  dipping  a  skimmer  into  the  syrup,  shaking  it  a 
little,  and  blowing  through  the  holes;  if  small  bubbles  or  air  bladders  appear  on 
the  other  side  the  blow  is  reached.    It  will  be  230°  by  the  thermometer. 

The  feather  degree  is  tested  in  the  same  way,  but  more  bubbles  are  produced; 
another  test  is  to  dip  in  the  skimmer,  shake  it  over  the  pan,  and  then  give  it  a 
sudden  flirt  away  from  you,  and  the  syrup  will  fly  off  like  feathers,  or  more  prop- 
erly in  threads.  At  this  stage  there  is  not  enough  water  left  to  hold  the  sugar  in 
solution,  and  it  will  manifest  a  tendency  to  crystallize  or  grain.  The  thermome- 
ter will  show  236°. 

The  ball  degree  is  tested  by  dipping  the  forefinger  in  a  basin  of  ice  water, 
then  take  a  little  syrup  on  the  finger-tip  and  plunge  it  into  the  water  again,  and 
roll  it  with  the  thumb;  if  it  forms  a  soft  ball  it  has  reached  the  soft  ball  (at  240°). 
This  is  the  point  at  which  to  use  it  for  mint  cream  drops.  When  a  larger  and 
harder  ball  is  formed,  which  sticks  unpleasantly  to  the  teeth  on  being  bitten,  the 
hard  ball  degree  is  reached  (at  248°). 

The  crack  degree  is  tested  in  the  same  way,  and  if  the  sugar  adhering  to  the 
finger  breaks  with  a  slight  noise,  and  does  not  adhere  to  the  teeth,  it  has  reached 
the  soft  crack;  the  thermometer  will  show  252°.  On  boiling  it  up  again,  and  test- 
ing the  same  way,  the  crack  degree  will  be  reached  at  260°;  at  290°  the  syrup  will 
break  short  and  brittle,  cracking  like  an  egg-shell,  and  is  then  known  as  the  hard 
crack  degree. 

The  Caramel*  degree  soon  follows,  and  the  syrup  loses  its  whiteness  and  turns 
a  light  straw  color.  A  few  drops  of  some  acid,  like  vinegar,  lemon  juice  or  tar- 
taric acid,  should  be  added  now  to  prevent  its  graining,  and  the  pan  should  be 
quickly  taken  from  the  stove  and  set  into  cold  water  to  prevent  the  syrup  from 
burning,  or  it  will  soon  become  a  dark  brown  and  be  spoiled.  At  the  caramel 
stage  the  sugar  will  snap  like  glass  on  being  dipped  into  water. 

Hints. — Dropping  in  the  acid  is  called  greasing  the  syrup.  Do  not  add  too 
much  or  you  will  spoil  it.  Confectioners  have  a  saying  that  "there  are  20  different 
ways  to  grease  syrup,  but  none  to  make  it  grain  when  greasy." 

A  small  piece  of  butter  put  into  the  pan  will  prevent  the  syrup  from  rising 


*  The  name  "Caramel"  is  derived  from  a  Count  Albuf age  Caramel,  of  Nismes,  France, 
who  discovered  this  stage  of  boiling. 


286  HOME  CANDY  MAKING. 

over  the  sides,  and  will  grease  or  smooth  it,  and  thus  act  like  the  acid  in  keeping 
it  from  graining. 

For  testing  the  syrup  a  small  round  stick  is  sometimes  used  instead  of  the  fin- 
ger; dip  it  into  the  cold  water,  then  into  the  syrup,  and  then  into  the  water  again. 
Have  the  water  close  by,  and  be  sure  it  is  cold  or  it  will  not  test  well.  If  the 
water  is  cold  enough  and  the  fingers  are  held  in  it  till  cold,  then  dipped  into  the 
hot  syrup  and  instantly  plunged  into  the  cold  water  again,  they  will  not  burn 
when  used  to  test  even  boiling  syrup. 

Keep  the  sides  of  the  pan  clear  from  crystals  of  sugar  by  wiping  them  off  with 
a  damp  sponge  or  flannel,  and  do  not  let  the  crystals  drop  into  the  pan,  or  they 
will  cause  granulation.  In  doing  this  do  not  let  the  fingers  touch  the  syrup  or 
they  will  be  burned.  One  washing  down  is  generally  enough,  but  repeat  if  nec- 
essary. 

If  at  any  time  you  boil  the  syrup  a  little  too  much,  or  produce  a  degree  beyond 
what  you  wish  for,  put  in  a  little  water  and  boil  it  up  again.  Sugar  that  has 
been  boiled  too  often,  however,  loses  many  of  its  good  qualities.  After  dissolving 
the  sugar  do  not  stir  the  syrup;  there  will  be  danger  of  making  it  granulate  if 
the  pan  is  shaken  while  it  is  boiling.  Sugar  which  has  grained  can  be  boiled 
again  and  used  for  taffy  or  cream  candy. 

Do  not  set  candy  in  a  refrigerator  to  cool  it,  but  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Air- 
tight boxes  are  the  best  in  which  to  keep  candy. 

FONDANT  OK  CREAM  CANDIES. 

Fondant  or  Cream. — Fondant  is  the  foundation  for  almost  all  French  candies, 
and  can  be  easily  made  by  the  amateur  so  that  it  will  look  and  taste  as  well 
as  that  made  by  the  professional.  Granulated  confectioner's  powdered  or 
coffee  A  sugar  can  be  used,  but  coffee  A  more  generally  gives  good  results.  For 
a  trial  add  %  teacup  of  water  to  1  lb.  coffee  A  sugar;  let  it  stand  an  hour  or  so, 
and  then  add  cream  of  tartar  the  size  of  a  white  bean,  dissolving  it  first  in  a  little 
cold  water;  now  set  the  pan  over  a  quick  fire  (be  particular  about  that,  as  it  is 
quite  important)  and  stir  constantly  until  the  candy  begins  to  boil;  then  stop 
stirring  at  once.  After  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes  drop  some  of  it  into  cold 
water  to  test  it;  try  it  often,  and  when  you  find  the  candy  can  be  gathered  up  in 
the  fingers  in  a  ball  which  does  not  at  once  soften  when  held  (about  the  soft  ball 
degree)  it  is  ready  to  take  from  the  fire,  and  should  be  very  carefully  poured  into 
a  pan  which  has  been  sprinkled  with  cold  water,  and  which  sets  level.  Be  sure 
the  candy  is  not  stirred  from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil  until  it  is  poured  into  the 
pan,  as  it  would  grain  if  stirred.  Greasing  the  pan  is  often  advised,  but  it  is  apt 
to  affect  the  taste  of  the  candy,  and  we  have  found  moistening  sufficient.  Let  it 
remain  without  stirring  or  shaking  until  it  is  almost  perfectly  cold;  then  beat  it 
constantly  with  a  large  spoon  or  paddle.  In  a  short  time  the  candy  will  get  white, 
and  then  begin  to  harden;  now  gather  it  into  a  mass  and  put  it  on  a  sprinkled 
marble  slab  if  you  have  it;  if  not,  knead  it  in  the  same  pan  in  which  it  cooled,  but 
in  either  case,  knead  it  as  you  would  bread  dough  for  a  few  minutes  with  the 
hands.  If  it  is  not  hard  enough  to  knead,  stir  as  long  as  you  can  with  the  spoon 
and  then  set  away  awhile  and  it  may  harden  sufficiently  to  work;  if  not,  add  a 
little  water  and  cook  again,  allowing  the  ball  to  cook  a  little  harder  than  before. 
Remember  that  sugar  passes  very  rapidly  from  one  degree  to  another,  and  so 
must  be  tried  often.  When  cooked  enough,  pour  it  into  the  pan  and  treat  as 
before  directed.  If  not  boiled  long  enough  the  fondant  will  be  too  soft  on  attempt- 
ing to  knead  it;  if  boiled  too  long  it  will  harden  too  quickly,  and  be  hard  and 
lumpy.  Skill  in  working  it  will  come  with  practice  and  experience.  This  fon- 
dant can  be  used  for  dipping,  and  if  it  is  cooked  enough  it  can  be  made  into  balls 
to  be  dipped  in  melted  fondant.  It  can  also  be  used  for  "patties."  It  can  be 
made  in  quantities  and  kept  in  a  stone  or  china  dish  or  jar,  well  covered  with 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING.  287 

waxed  or  buttered  paper  to  keep  the  air  out,  using  it  as  needed;  it  will  keep  thus 
a  week  in  cold  weather.  Do  not  scrape  the  sauce-pan  after  pouring  out  the 
fondant;  put  a  little  boiling  water  in  it,  seton  the  stove,  and  it  can  soon  be  easily 
washed  out. 

The  above  fondant  will  form  the  foundation  for  all  your  French  candies.  It 
can  be  colored  with  cochineal,  saffron,  etc.,  and  flavored  with  any  flavoring 
desired.  In  working  these  candies  there  is  a  chance  for  displaying  one's  taste 
and  skill.  It  can  be  made  into  rolls,  and  pieces  sliced  off,  or  made  into  cubes,  or 
formed  into  any  shape  to  imitate  French  candies.  As  French  candies  are  nearly 
all  made  by  hand,  you  can  notice  their  forms  and  imitate  them.  We  explain 
some  of  the  most  popular  forms  for  these  candies,  and  you  can  easily  devise 
others;  there  is  no  limit  to  the  varieties  which  can  be  produced  by  varying  the 
flavors,  using  noyeau,  maraschino,  tea,  coffee,  and  other  flavors  less  common  than 
the  vanilla  and  lemon.  Variegated  effects  are  produced  by  using  fondant,  vari- 
ously colored,  and  so  on. 

Melting  Fondant. — In  melting  fondant  put  some  of  it  in  a  cup  and  set  it  in  a 
dish  of  boiling  water,  instead  of  setting  it  directly  on  the  stove;  when  melted,  the 
cup  can  be  held  in  the  hand  while  the  dipping  or  dropping  is  being  done.  It  is 
sometimes  said  that  the  cup  must  be  kept  in  hot  water  during  the  dipping, 
but  we  have  not  found  this  necessary,  for  as  soon  as  it  hardens  too  much  to  use 
readily  it  can  be  set  back  in  the  hot  water  and  softened  again.  If  very  hot,  it 
may  be  too  thin;  is  so,  stir  a  minute  till  it  thickens.  If  it  is  too  thick,  cautiously 
add  a  little  hot  water,  1  or  2  drops  at  a  time,  as  a  little  too  much  water  will  spoil 
it  for  dipping  candies,  although  it  can  be  used  for  dipping  fresh  fruits. 

In  using  a  fork  for  dipping  candies,  grease  it  well,  and  do  not  stick  it  into 
the  article,  but  drop  the  ball  or  nut  into  the  melted  fondant  and  lift  it  out  with 
the  tines  of  the  fork,  using  them  like  a  spoon;  rest  it  a  second,  to  drain,  on  the 
edge  of  the  bowl,  and  then  deftly  drop  the  coated  candy  onto  the  oiled  paper. 

Orange  or  Lemon  Creams. — Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  an  orange  carefully  into 
a  plate,  and  add  the  juice  of  %  an  orange  and  %  a  lemon,  and  just  a  dash  of  tar- 
taric acid;  then  mix  it  with  enough  confectioner's  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  stiff 
paste,  form  it  into  little  balls,  and  set  away  to  dry  for  a  few  hours;  then  melt  a 
little  fondant  in  a  cup  as  before  directed,  and  drop  in  each  little  ball,  lift  it  out 
with  a  fork,  and  lay  it  on  oiled  paper.  If  the  cream  gets  too  thin  to  cover  the 
balls  well  let  it  cool  a  minute;  if  it  gets  too  thick  warm  it  again. 

Lemon  Creams  are  made  by  using  lemon  in  the  same  way. 

Balls. — Fondant  can  be  melted  and  an  equal  amount  of  almond  paste  stirred 
into  it;  this  can  be  formed  into  balls,  and  these  balls  dipped  into  melted  fondant 
as  directed  for  orange  creams.  By  flavoring  this  melted  fondant  with  coffee,  tea, 
etc.,  various  effects  can  be  produced,  which  will  be  novel  and  attractive. 

Walnut  Creams.— Melt  a  little  fondant  in  a  cup  as  before  directed;  color  it 
with  cochineal,  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  not,  as  preferred;  then  drop  in  wal- 
nut meats,  one  at  a  time,  taking  them  out  on  the  tines  of  a  fork,  and  placing  them 
on  buttered  paper  to  harden;  then  repeat  the  operation  giving  each  one  a  second 
coat.  Another  way  is  to  flavor  a  little  fondant  with  vanilla,  form  it  into  small 
balls,  press  the  2  halves  of  a  walnut  on  opposite  sides  of  each  one,  and  set  it  on 
an  oiled  dish  to  harden.  If  the  nuts  are  slightly  salted  before  being  used  it  will 
improve  the  flavor. 

Almond  Creams  can  be  formed  by  using  almonds  instead  of  walnuts. 

Chocolate  Creams, — Flavor  a  little  fondant  with  vanilla  and  roll  it  into  balls 


288  HOME  CANDY  MAKING. 

the  size  of  walnuts;  then  take  some  confectioner's  sweetened  chocolate,  heat  it, 
and  mix  in  enough  well-beaten  white  of  egg  to  make  a  smooth,  thick  paste;  dip 
each  little  ball  into  this  paste,  and  lift  it  out  with  a  fork  and  drop  it  on  to  oiled 
paper;  if  the  white  shows  through,  add  more  chocolate.  Let  the  balls  dry  for 
Borne  time. 

Raspberry  Creams.— Mix  a  little  raspberry  jam  with  enough  confectioner's 
powdered  sugar  to  form  a  stiff  paste,  and  roll  it  into  little  balls  between  the  palms 
of  the  hands;  then  melt  a  little  fondant  as  before  directed,  color  it  with  cochineal, 
and  dip  in  these  balls  as  directed  for  "Orange  Creams,"  giving  each  ball  2  coats 
if  needed. 

Strawberry  Creams  can  be  made  with  strawberry  jam  the  same  way. 

Maple  Sugar  Creams. — Grate  fine  maple  sugar  and  mix  it  with  fondant  to 
suit  the  taste,  and  form  into  any  shape  desired.  The  walnut  creams  are  very  nice 
made  with  maple  sugar. 

Cocoanut  Creams. — Take  %  CUP  grated  cocoanut,  1  cup  confectioner's  pow- 
dered sugar  and  5  teaspoons  of  milk;  mix,  form  it  into  little  balls,  let  them  dry  3 
or  4  hours,  and  dip  them  in  melted  fondant  as  directed  for  "Orange  Creams." 
These  are  very  nice  covered  with  maple  sugar  fondant. 

Fruit  Creams. — Take  some  fondant  and,  while  it  is  warm,  work  in  grated 
cocoanut,  or  finely-chopped  citron,  currants,  figs,  or  other  fruit;  it  can  then  be 
formed  into  balls,  bars,  or  flat  cakes,  and  these  set  aside  to  dry. 

Dates  and  cherries  can  be  cut  in  two,  the  stones  or  seeds  taken  out,  and  little 
balls  of  flavored  fondant  put  inside;  then  press  them  together,  roll  them  in  gran- 
ulated sugar,  and  set  to  dry.  A  delicious  confection  is  also  produced  by  putting 
salted  almonds  inside,  instead  of  the  fondant.    Try  it. 

Canned  plums  or  figs  can  have  the  skins  and  stones  removed,  then  be  rubbed 
to  a  paste  with  confectioner's  powdered  sugar  and  a  trifle  of  cream  of  tartar 
added;  then  form  into  balls,  and  dip  as  directed  for  "Orange  Creams." 

Cream-Coated  Fruits. — Melt  some  fondant,  and  add  any  flavoring  desired, 
only  select  that  which  will  go  well  with  the  fruit  to  be  dipped.  The  fondant  can 
also  be  colored,  if  desired,  to  suit  one's  fancy.  A  fondant  which  is  too  soft  for 
making  the  balls  or  centers  for  candy,  can  be  used  for  this  purpose.  Grapes 
currants,  cherries,  strawberries,  raspberries,  and  other  fruit,  can  then  be  dipped 
into  the  prepared  fondant,  dipping  each  berry  separately,  and  laying  them  to  dry 
on  oiled  paper,  or  set  them  in  the  little  paper  cases  if  you  have  them.  Select  choice 
fruit  for  this  purpose.  Fruit  thus  dipped  is  quite  attractive  for  dessert  or  break- 
fast. Oranges  also  may  be  peeled,  each  carpel  separated  carefully  without  break- 
ing the  skin,  and  then  dipped  in  melted  fondant,  which  is  colored  with  grated 
orange  rind,  and  thinned  with  orange  juice.    This  process  is  new  and  good. 

Patties. — These  are  simply  melted  fondant,  flavored  as  desired,  and  formed 
into  drops  or  patties  the  size  of  a  half  dollar;  they  will  be  hard  enough  to  eat  in 
3^  hour.  By  using  different  flavors,  as  peppermint,  wintergreen,  etc.,  number- 
less varieties  can  be  produced. 

Uncooked  Cream  or  Fondant. — Pass  2  or  3  lbs.  of  XXXX  powdered  sugar 
through  a  sieve,  shape  it  like  a  cone  on  the  table,  make  a  well  in  the  top,  put  in  a 
little  water,  work  in  the  sugar  till  it  is  absorbed,  put  in  a  little  more,  and  keep 
on  thus  doing  until  a  smooth,  stiff  paste  is  formed.  While  doing  this,  work  in  a 
little  vanilla  or  any  other  flavor  desired.  This  will  serve  as  a  foundation  for  any 
of  the  candies  for  which  "Fondant"  is  used,  but  it  cannot  be  melted  to  use  as  a 
coating. 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING.  289 

By  varying  this  uncooked  cream  a  little  a  variety  of  fine  candies  can  be  pro- 
duced. Thus  lemon  creams  can  be  made  by  working  up  the  sugar  with  lemon 
juice  and  a  little  grated  rind;  then  form  them  into  creams.  Or  use  orange  juice 
and  rind  for  orange  creams.  Or  use  any  fruit  juice  instead  of  the  water  for 
mixing,  such  as  pineapple,  raspberry,  strawberry,  etc.;  the  flavor  is  thus  easily 
varied. 

Cream  Walnuts,  Dates,  Figs,  Cherries,  etc. — These  can  be  made  from  the 
uncooked  fondant  as  follows:  Roll  some  of  the  uncooked  fondant  between  the 
hands  into  a  strip  about  1  inch  in  diameter,  and  then  cut  the  strip  into  sections 
1  inch  long,  and,  using  the  hands,  roll  these  into  balls;  then  take  each  one,  press 
the  2  halves  of  a  walnut  on  the  sides  opposite  each  other,  and  put  them  in  a  pan 
in  rows  as  fast  as  formed;  set  them  aside  to  harden  a  few  hours  and  they  will  be 
ready  to  use.  To  prepare  cherries,  Jigs  or  dates,  take  out  the  seeds  after  cutting 
them  in  two,  put  in  a  piece  of  cream,  roll  them  in  the  hands,  and  set  in  rows  on  a 
greased  dish  to  harden.  If  desired,  they  can  be  rolled  in  granulated  sugar  as  fast 
as  formed,  to  coat  the  surface;  then  set  aside  to  harden. 

Cream  Candies. — Take  the  whites  of  1  or  2  eggs,  add  an  equal  quantity  of  cold 
water,  and  stir  in  enough  confectioner's  powdered  sugar  to  knead  well.  Flavor 
to  taste. 

Chocolate  Creams  can  be  made  by  flavoring  some  of  this  paste,  forming  it 
into  balls,  and  dipping  it  into  melted  chocolate;  grate  the  chocolate,  put  it  in  a 
dish,  and  set  that  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  till  melted;  after  dipping  in  the 
creams,  any  kind  of  nuts,  figs,  or  raisins,  can  be  pressed  on  top. 

A  great  variety  of  candies  can  be  formed  from  this  cream,  as  it  is  in  reality 
only  an  uncooked  "Fondant,"and  will  serve  as  the  foundation  for  any  of  the  can- 
dies previously  given  for  which  "Fondant"  is  used,  but  it  cannot  be  melted  for 
use  as  a  coating. 

Varying  the  Cream. — This  paste  is  varied  sometimes  by  using  milk  instead  of 
water,  and  by  beating  the  egg.  Take  the  white  of  egg  and  an  equal  quantity  of 
milk;  beat  the  egg,  add  the  milk,  and  form  to  a  paste  with  confectioner's  pow- 
dered sugar  as  above  directed;  this  paste  when  done  is  handled  the  same  as  the 
other  paste.  Gum  arabic  is  used  sometimes  instead  of  the  white  of  egg;  a  paste 
is  formed  by  mixing  the  gum  arabic  with  confectioner's  powdered  sugar,  and  the 
paste  thus  formed  is  worked  up  in  numberless  ways.  There,  are  many  slight 
changes  adopted  in  making  the  paste  or  cream,  but  the  results  are  very  similar. 

Lozenges. — Wintergreen  lozenges  can  be  made  of  the  above  cream  by  flavor- 
ing it  with  wintergreen,  rolling  it  out  thin,  and  cutting  out  the  lozenges  with  a 
little  tin  cutter.  Various  other  lozenges  can  be  produced  by  using  different 
flavors,  and  they  can  also  be  tinted  with  different  colors,  if  desired,  for  a  variety. 

Bonbons. — Make  a  paste  by  working  confectioner's  powdered  sugar  into  gum 
arabic  water,  and  flavor  it  with  vanilla;  form  it  into  balls  and  let  them  dry.  Then 
dip  each  ball  into  a  cream  made  of  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  the  confection- 
er's sugar,  flavored  and  colored  with  chocolate.  This  last  cream  should  be  thin. 
By  varying  the  flavorings,  using  different  colors,  etc.,  an  endless  variety  may  be 
made. 

Cream  Nut  Candy. — Mix  %  lb»  coffee  A  or  granulated  sugar  in  1  teacup  of 
sweet  cream,  and  heat  slowly  on  the  stove  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  then  boil  5 
minutes,  and  stir  in  %  lb.  of  nut  kernels,  which  should  be  finely  grated  or 
chopped;  then  boil  10  minutes,  and  pour  it  on  to  buttered  plates;  cut  it  into 
squares  when  partly  cool;  it  will  harden  in  about  2  days. 
19 


290  HOME  CANDY  MAKING. 

Marsh-mallows. — Take  4  oz.  of  the  best  white  gum  arabic,  dissolve  it  in  1  cup 
of  water  and  strain  it;  then  add  a  full  %  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  set  it  on  the 
stove,  and  continually  stir  until  the  mixture  is  about  as  thick  as  honey,  and  the 
sugar  is  well  dissolved;  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  should  then  be  added 
gradually,  and  stirred  until  the  mixture  becomes  thinned  and  will  not  stick  to  the 
finger  when  touched;  flavor  to  taste  with  lemon,  rose,  wintergreen  or  anything 
preferred.  Pour  it  to  cool  into  a  square  tin  pan  dusted  with  corn-starch.  Cut 
into  squares  when  cold,  and  dust  each  one  with  corn-starch.  This  will  keep  best 
in  tin  boxes. 

Nougat. — Make  the  marsh-mallow  paste  as  above  directed,  and  then  stir  in  % 
lb.  of  almonds  blanched  and  cut  fine;  set  to  cool  as  before;  then  cut,  when  cold, 
into  long  bars  and  wrap  in  waxed  paper.  Hazel-nuts,  pistachio-nuts,  etc.,  can  be 
used  at  times  for  a  variety. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Candy. — Mix  the  milk  of  1  cocoanut  and  1%  lbs.  coffee  A 
or  granulated  sugar,  and  heat  slowly  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  then  boil  5 
minutes,  add  the  grated  meat  of  the  cocoanut,  and  boil  10  minutes  longer,  stir- 
ring continually;  pour  on  buttered  plates  to  harden,  and  when  it  begins  to 
harden,  cut  into  squares.    It  will  harden  in  about  2  days. 

MISCELLANEOUS  CANDIES,  ETC. 

(xlaces. — Take  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  water,  and  %  teaspoon  of  cream 
tartar;  boil  it  to  the  "crack"  degree,  that  is,  so  that  it  will  break  when  in  cold 
water,  and  will  not  stick  to  the  teeth  when  eaten,  and  set  the  vessel  containing 
it  into  a  basin  of  hot  water  to  keep  it  warm;  if  it  gets  too  cool  while  being  used, 
it  can  be  reheated  twice,  but  it  will  not  soften  after  that.  Into  this  mixture  can 
be  dipped  nuts,  such  as  almonds,  peanuts,,  walnuts,  etc.,  or  fruits  like  grapes, 
cherries,  dates,  figs,  sections  or  carpels  of  oranges,  etc.  Have  the  fruit  or  nuts 
dry  before  dipping  them,  and  dip  them  one  at  a  time.  Grapes  and  cherries  can 
be  dipped  in  by  their  stems;  nuts  and  so  on,  can  be  dropped  in  and  lifted  out  on 
the  well-greased  tines  of  a  fork.  Lay  them  to  dry  on  greased  paper  or  pans,  or  on 
a  sieve  also  greased.  In  damp  weather  the  atmosphere  is  apt  to  make  them 
sticky,  and  even  in  dry  weather  they  should  be  kept  in  an  air-tight  jar  or  tin  box. 
Some  of  the  fruits  are  best  eaten  within  a  few  hours  after  being  prepared. 

Taffy  {Lemon). — Put  1  cup  of  water  and  1%  lbs.  coffee  A  sugar  over  the  fire; 
stir  until  dissolved,  then  add  34  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar;  wipe  down  the  sides 
of  the  pan  with  a  damp  cloth  or  sponge  to  remove  the  crystals,  and  boil  until  it 
reaches  the  "crack"  degree;  then  turn  it  into  shallow  greased  pans  to  cool,  sprink- 
ling on  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract.  Mark  into  squares  with  a  sharp,  greased 
knife,  when  it  is  partly  cold.  Or,  it  can  be  turned  on  to  a  well-greased  slab,  and 
when  the  edges  cool  a  little  they  should  be  turned  in  toward  the  center,  repeating 
this  every  few  minutes  until  it  is  cool  enough  to  handle.  Then  pull  it  as  pre- 
viously directed  for  pulling  candy.  If  it  is  pulled,  the  flavoring  extract  is  best 
sprinkled  on  a  little  at  a  time  during  the  pulling.  Then  take  it  off  of  the  hook, 
pull  it  into  long  strips,  and  cut  these  into  little  blocks  3  or  &  inches  long;  set  them 
in  a  cool  place  on  greased  pans  to  cool. 

Vanilla  Taffy  can  be  made  in  the  same  way,  but  flavor  with  vanilla  instead  of 
lemon. 

Molasses  Taffy. — Boil  1  quart  of  New  Orleans  molasses  for  30  minutes  in  a 
large  pan,  so  that  it  will  not  run  over,  stirring  continually;  then  add  }£  teaspoon 
baking  soda,  and  boil  it  to  the  "crack"  degree;  then  add  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
and  pour  it  into  shallow,  well-greased  pans  or  a  platter  to  cool;  when  partly  cool  it 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING.  291 

may  be  marked  into  squares,  or  pulled  to  a  bright  golden  color,  and  finished  as 
directed  for  other  taffies. 

Walnut  Molasses  Candy.— Make  the  molasses  taffy  as  just  directed,  and  when 
it  gets  to  the  "crack"  degree,  stir  in  all  the  walnut  kernels  it  will  hold  (have  the 
walnuts  perfectly  dry);  pour  it  into  well-greased  pans  to  cool;  cut  a  lemon  in 
two,  and  with  the  flat  side  press  the  candy  down  smooth;  cut  it  into  bars  with  a 
well-greased  knife,  when  partially  cool. 

Peanut  Molasses  Candy  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  use  peanuts  instead  of 
walnuts. 

Everton  Taffy. — To  1  lb.  coffee  A  or  granulated  sugar,  add  1  teacup  of  water; 
cream  %  lb.  of  butter  and  have  it  ready,  and  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  stir  it 
in;  flavor  with  lemon,  cook  to  the  "crack"  degree,  turn  it  into  greased  pans,  and 
with  a  greased  knife  mark  into  blocks  when  partly  cold. 

Plain  Molasses  Candy. — Take  2  cups  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  1 

tablespoon  of  butter,  and  boil  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water;  then  stir  in  1 

tablespoon  of  vinegar,  pour  it  on  the  buttered  plates,  and  pull  as  soon  as  cool. 

Adding  the  sugar  makes  the  candy  more  brittle ;  if  white  sugar  is  used  instead  of  brown, 
the  candy  will  be  whiter,  and  if  a  teaspoon  of  soda  is  stirred  in  well,  just  before  pouring 
out  the  candy,  it  will  whiten  it  still  more.  The  vinegar  keeps  it  from  graining,  and  lemon 
juice  or  tartaric  acid  would  answer  as  well.  The  butter  keeps  it  from  rising  over  the  sides 
of  the  pan  as  it  boils,  and  makes  it  smoother;  some  people  add  a  little  sweet  cream  also. 
The  idea  that  molasses  candy  should  be  stirred  from  the  time  it  is  put  on  the  stove  until 
it  is  taken  off  is  erroneous.  A  tin  lid  placed  over  the  pan  as  soOn  as  it  begins  to  boil,  will 
keep  in  the  steam  which  will  wash  the  candy  from  the  sides  of  the  pan.  When  beginning 
to  pull  the  candy  it  should  be  rather  sticky,  or  else  it  will  not  be  of  the  right  consistency 
when  done.  After  getting  the  mass  into  good  shape,  pull  it  briskly  a  few  minutes  while 
holding  it  over  the  stove,  and  tiie  heat  and  pulling  combined,  will  whiten  it  wonderfully. 

For  Peanut  Molasses  Candy  prepare  the  peanuts  while  the  candy  is  cooking, 
lay  them  on  buttered  pans,  and  pour  the  candy  over  them  when  done;  cut  into 
blocks  with  a  greased  knife  when  it  is  slightly  cooled. 

For  Walnut  Candy  stir  in  a  cup  of  walnuts  just  before  removing  it  from  the 
fire;  then  pour  into  greased  tins  and  finish  as  above. 

ButterScotch. — Take  3  cups  of  white  sugar,  3^  cup  of  water,  ^.teaspoon  of 
cream  tartar  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  boil,  without  stirring,  to  the  "crack" 
degree;  add  34  teaspoon  of  soda  and  8  drops  of  lemon  extract,  and  turn  it  into 
well-greased  pans,  having  it  about  34  inch  thick;  when  partly  cool,  mark  into 
inch  squares  with  a  well-greased  knife. 

Sweet  Flag  Candy. — Take  some  sweet  flag  root,  wash  it,  scrape  thoroughly, 
slice  very  thin,  and  boil  10  minutes  in  twice  as  much  water  as  there  is  of  the  flag; 
drain  off  the  water,  and  for  each  cup  of  this  extract  add  1  cup  thick  maple  syrup 
— or  sugar  will  answer;  stir  well  together,  and  cook  till  the  sugar  grains.  Excel- 
lent for  colds. 

Cough  Candy. — Break  2  oz.  slippery  elm  bark  into  small  bits,  add  1  cup  water 
and  2  oz.  flaxseed,  and  let  it  soak,  stirring  a  few  times,  for  1  or  2  hours;  strain, 
add  3  cups  brown  sugar,  put  it  on  the  stove,  stir  till  the  sugar  dissolves,  and  boil 
5  minutes;  put  in  2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice  and  bring  to  the  "crack"  degree; 
pour  it  to  cool  into  greased  pans,  and  cut  into  small  squares  when  partially  cool. 
This  is  a  valuable  remedy  for  those  troubled  with  throat  affections,  or  who  use 
their  voices  much,  and  a  pleasant  candy  as  well. 

Caramels  {Chocolate). — Take  4  cups  of  brown  sugar,  2  cups  New  Orleans 
molasses,  %  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  Baker's  chocolate  (grated),  and  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg;  stir  all  together,  and  boil  slowly  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  cracks  in  water 
(the  "soft  crack"  degree);  add  vanilla  flavor  and  turn  it  about  %  inch  deep,  into 
large,  flat,  well-greased  tins;  when  nearly  cold,  mark  it  deeply  into  squares  with  a 
greased  knife.    Break  apart  when  cold,  and  wrap  in  waxed  paper. 


292  HOME  CANDY  MAKING. 

Maple  Caramels. — Take  &  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  crushed  maple  sugar, 
1  cup  sweet  cream;  bring  to  a  boil  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of 
cream  tartar;  cook  slowly,  with  constant  stirring,  to  the  "soft  crack"  degree,  and 
finish  as  directed  for  chocolate  caramels. 

Nut  Caramels. — Make  the  same  as  chocolate  caramels  and  when  it  is  cooked 
(to  the  "crack"  degree)  stir  in  about  1  lb.  of  nuts,  chopped  fine;  use  walnuts,  or 
walnuts  and  almonds  mixed;  then  finish  as  with  the  chocolate  caramels. 

Vanilla  Caramels. — Cream  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  work  in  1  cup  brown 
sugar;  then  mix  in  1  cup  cream  and  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  and  treat  as 
directed  for  chocolate  caramels,  flavoring  with  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  just  before 
pouring  out  to  cool. 

This  can  be  made  into  strawberry  caramel  by  flavoring  with  strawberry 
instead  of  vanilla,  and  working  in  a  little  red  coloring. 

Sugar  Drops  (Peppermint). — Take  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  moisten  it  with  2 
tablespoons  water;  boil  it  5  minutes,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  cream  of  tar- 
tar the  size  of  a  pea;  mix  well,  and  add  4  or  5  drops  of  oil  of  peppermint,  and  beat 
it  briskly  until  the  mixture  whitens  (have  the  cream  of  tartar  and  peppermint 
measured  and  ready  while  the  sugar  is  boiling),  then  drop  it  quickly  on  to  oiled 
paper,  in  drops  about  the  size  of  peas,  or  other  sizes  if  preferred.  When  firm,  they 
can  be  removed  from  the  paper  by  moistening  it  on  the  under  side,  and  lifting  them 
off  with  a  limber  knife.  Dry  them  in  a  warm  place  on  a  sieve,  and  keep  in  closely 
covered  boxes.  If  powdered  or  confectioner's  sugar  is  used  the  drops  will  be  less 
brilliant.  If  the  sugar  dust  is  separated  from  the  granulated  sugar  with  a  hair 
sieve,  it  will  be  an  advantage.  If  the  cream  gets  too  hard  to  drop  from  the  spoon 
set  it  on  the  stove,  stir  till  it  gets  thinner,  and  drop  as  before. 

For  Ginger  Drops  proceed  exactly  the  same  as  for  peppermint,  but  instead  of 
flavoring  with  peppermint  use  2  teaspoons  of  Jamaica  ginger. 

For  Rose  Drops  flavor  with  7  or  8  drops  of  essence  of  rose,  and  color  it  with  7 
or  8  drops  of  the  prepared  cochineal  given  elsewhere. 

Lemon  Drops  can  be  produced  by  flavoring  it  with  1  teaspoon  of  acetic  acid; 
or  proceed  as  follows:  Use  just  enough  strained  lemon  juice  to  dissolve  1  cup  of 
sugar;  boil  to  a  thick  syrup,  drop  on  to  greased  plates,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
harden.    We  prefer  the  first  method. 

Wintergreen  Drops  can  be  made  like  peppermint  drops,  but  flavor  with  winter- 
green,  and  tint  with  the  prepared  cochineal. 

For  Currant  Drops  moisten  the  sugar  with  currant  juice  instead  of  water;  set 
it  on  the  stove  and  melt,  stirring  constantly,  but  do  not  let  it  boil;  then  add  a 
very  little  more  sugar,  warm  it  a  moment  with  the  rest,  drop  it  on  oiled  paper, 
and  finish  like  peppermint  drops. 

By  using  raspberry  or  strawberry  juice,  instead  of  the  currant  juice,  raspberry 
or  strawberry  drops  are  produced. 

Orange  Drops. — Take  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange,  add  a  pinch  of 
tartaric  acid,  and  stir  in  enough  confectioner's  powdered  sugar  to  work  well; 
form  it  into  balls  the  size  of  marbles. 

French  Chocolates. — Melt  some  confectioner's  sweetened  chocolate  in  a  cup 
set  in  hot  water,  and  into  it  drop  nuts  of  various  kinds,  or  small  pieces  of  candied 
fruit;  lift  out  each  piece  with  a  fork  and  lay  it  on  oiled  paper  to  harden.  A  great 
variety  of  delicious  and  popular  candies  can  be  made  thus,  and  they  will  keep 
longer  than  the  French  chocolates  sold  in  the  stores. 

Hoarhound  Candy. — Boil  about  1  oz.  of  the  herb  in  1%  cups  water;  then  strain 


HOME  CANDY  MAKING.  293 

it,  stir  in  3  cups  brown  sugar,  and  when  it  boils  add  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar;  boil 
until  it  is  brittle  when  tested  in  cold  water;  pour  it  into  greased  pans,  and  mark 
into  squares  with  a  greased  knife  when  partly  cold. 

Honey  Candy. — Take  2  cups  coffee  A  sugar,  water  enough  to  dissolve  it,  and  4 
tablespoons  of  strained  honey;  boil  until  brittle  on  being  dropped  in  cold  water; 
stir  in  a  teaspoon  of  nut  kernels,  and  pour  it  to  cool  in  greased  pans.  Or,  for  a 
variety,  leave  out  the  nuts  and  pull  it  while  cooling. 

Peanut  Candy. — Take  1  cup  coffee  A  or  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of 
water,  and  boil  till  it  will  harden  in  cold  water;  add  a  pinch  of  cream  tartar,  and 
stir  in  1  cup  of  shelled  peanuts;  finish  as  directed  for  hoarhound  candy. 

Butternut  Balls. — Take  some  butternuts  or  beachnuts,  pound  them  very  fine 
in  a  mortar,  and  add  a  little  allspice  and  nutmeg.  Make  a  frosting  as  for  cakes, 
and  stir  in  enough  of  the  mixture  to  make  it  thick  enough  to  handle.  Grease  the 
hands,  form  this  mixture  into  balls,  and  set  on  greased  tins,  allowing  room  for 
them  to  spread  as  they  dry. 

Fig  Candy. — Take  1%  cups  water  and  1  lb.  coffee  A  or  granulated  sugar;  boil 
until  it  is  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water;  add  1  teaspoon  each  of  butter  and 
vinegar,  and  pour  it  into  greased  pans  on  which  slices  of  figs  have  been  laid;  put 
slices  on  top  also. 

Crystallized  Popcorn. — Take  1  teacup  coffee  A  or  granulated  sugar,  3  table- 
spoons of  water  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  boil  to  the  "hard  ball"  degree,  and  then 
throw  in  3  quarts  of  nicely  popped  corn;  stir  briskly  until  the  candy  is  evenly 
distributed  over  the  corn;  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire  (be  careful  the  corn  does 
not  burn)  stir  until  it  cools  a  little,  and  each  grain  will  be  separated  and  coated 
with  crystallized  sugar. 

Nut  meats  of  any  kind  may  be  crystallized  the  same  way. 
Crystallized  Cherries. — Prepare  the  sugar  and  bring  it  to  the  "hard  ball"  degree 
as  directed  for  crystallized  popcorn,  and  then  pour  it  over  some  fine  ripe  cherries 
which  have  been  stoned;  move  them  about  gently,  to  coat  them  nicely,  and  when 
almost  cold,  dry  them  in  a  cool  oven  or  near  the  fire. 

Popcorn  Balls. — Sort  all  the  hard  kernels  out  of  popcorn;  then  take  the 
amount  of  molasses  needed,  and  boil  it  until  it  will  hair  or  thread  off  the  end  of 
a  spoon  (the  "feather"  degree);  pour  the  hot  molasses  over  the  corn,  mix  well,  and 
make  into  balls  as  soon  as  it  cools  a  little,  having  the  hands  well  greased. 

Corn-cake  can  be  prepared  by  putting  the  mass  while  warm  into  greased  tins, 
pressing  it  into  thin  sheets  with  greased  rollers  and  afterwards  cutting  it  into 
small  square  cakes. 

Ratafias. — Use  %  Bb.  °f  sweet  almonds,  %  Bb.  bitter  almonds,  2  cups  gran- 
ulated sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs.  Blanch,  skin  and  dry  the  almonds;  then  pound 
them  in  a  mortar  with  the  white  of  1  egg;  then  stir  the  sugar  in  gradually,  and 
add  the  remaining  whites  of  egg;  beat  thoroughly,  and  drop  on  tins  covered  with 
writing  or  cartridge  paper,  and  bake  about  10  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  The 
ratafias  should  be  about  the  size  of  a  large  button  when  done,  and  as  they  spread 
very  much  in  baking  only  a  very  little  of  the  paste  should  be  allowed  for  each 
one.  Have  them  far  enough  apart  on  the  paper  so  that  they  will  not  touch  as 
they  swell  in  baking. 

White  Candy. — Take  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  water,  and  1  tablespoon 
of  vinegar;  boil  without  stirring  until  it  is  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water; 
pour  into  greased  pans,  and  pull  when  cool  enough,  adding  vanilla  flavor  as  you 
pull  it;  form  it  into  sticks,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  the  next  day. 


294  HOME  CANDY  MAKING. 

Crystallized  Nnts. — Select  the  finest  nuts  and  lay  them  in  well-beaten  white  of 
egg,  drain  them,  and  again  beat  what  white  of  egg  drips  off;  then  dip  them  one 
by  one  into  powdered  sugar;  lay  a  sheet  of  fine  paper  on  a  pan,  place  the  nuts  on 
it,  and  set  in  a  cool  oven;  when  the  icing  becomes  firm,  pile  them  on  a  dish,  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Crystallized,  Iced  or  Frosted  Fruits.— Select  ripe,  perfect  fruit,  and  dip  it  in 
the  well-beaten  white  of  egg  to  which  a  little  cold  water  has  been  added,  or  into 
thin  gum  arabic  water;  then  put  it  on  a  sieve  and  sift  on  pulverized  or  fine  gran- 
ulated sugar;  or  roll  the  fruit  in  the  sugar;  let  it  dry  a  little,  and  roll  again,  lay- 
ing it  on  oiled  paper  to  dry.  Keep  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  until  ready  to  arrange  it 
for  the  table,  as  dampness  may  make  it  sticky. 

Currants,  cherries,  grapes,  plums,  peaches,  or  other  fruit,  may  be  thus  pre- 
pared, and  it  is  very  attractive  for  the  tea-table  or  dessert.  Leave  grapes  or 
currants  on  the  stem;  and  brush  the  fur  off  of  peaches  before  frosting  them. 

Orange  Peel,  Candied. — Use  thick  peel  and  cut  it  in  thin  strips,  then  boil  it, 
frequently  changing  the  water  until  there  is  no  bitter  taste  in  the  water  (don't 
be  alarmed  at  the  amount  of  boiling  required);  drain  thoroughly,  then  put  in  a 
kettle  with  sugar  only  in  proportion  of  1  cup  to  the  peel  of  a  dozen  oranges.  Set 
the  kettle  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  stir  occasionally  while  the  sugar  dissolves 
and  the  peel  becomes  candied  and  dry.  Keep  in  a  glass  jar.  Used  instead  of 
raisins  in  cake  it  gives  a  daintily-flavored  fruit  cake. 


FRUITS. 

A  great  variety  of  fine  fruits  abound  in  our  markets  which  in  their  season  are 
cheap  and  easily  obtainable.  They  may  be  considered  as  luxuries,  because  no 
fruit  is  essential  to  life,  but  they  afford  a  pleasing  variety  to  bills  of  fare,  and  they 
possess  some  value  in  themselves.  While  most  highly  prized  by  the  inhabitants 
of  warm  countries  they  are  craved  and  procured  by  those  of  temperate  climates, 
often  even  at  much  expense.  Fruit  may  be  profitably  eaten  at  least  once  a  day. 
The  juice,  consisting  largely  of  watery  solutions  of  acids  and  sugar,  is  the  most 
enjoyable  part,  and  those  varieties  containing  the  most  juice  with  the  least  cell 
structure  are  the  most  highly  prized.  Although  judged  by  their  chemical  com- 
position, their  food  value  is  not  large,  fruits  act  beneficially  on  the  system,  when 
fully  ripe  and  eaten  in  moderation,  as  they  improve  the  appetite  and  promote  a 
healthy  condition  of  the  vital  organs. 

Nuts  do  not  form  a  very  important  article  of  diet  among  any  people  with  the 
exception  of  the  cocoanut.  Although  judged  solely  by  their  chemical  composi- 
tion they  should  be  very  nutritious,  they  are  difficult  of  digestion  and  are  valua- 
ble principally  for  the  oil  which  they  contain. 

The  following  table  will  show  the  composition  of  the  principal  fruits.  The 
"potential  energy"  in  most  fruits  is  rather  low,  being  175  Calories  to  the  pound  in 
strawberries;  200  for  pineapples;  210  for  lemons;  320  for  apples;  640  for  bananas; 
and  160  for  watermelons. 

TABLE  SHOWING  THE   PERCENTAGE   OP   POOD   ELEMENTS  IN  DIFFERENT   FRUITS,   ETC. 


Apple > 

Apricot 

Banana(peel'd) 
Blackberry.... 

Cherries 

Cocoanuts 

Currants 

Dates 

Figs 

Gooseberry 

Grapes 

Mulberry 

Peaches 

Pears  

Peanuts  

Plums 

Raspberry 

Rhubarb 

Strawberry 

Walnuts 


Water. 


83.5 
81.2 
74.0 
86.3 
80.2 
46.6 
84.0 
20.8 
17.5 
85.7 
78.0 
85.0 
85.0 
84.0 
7.5 
82.0 
86.0 
95.1 
87.5 
44.5 


Albu- 
menoids. 


0.4 
0.4 
4.8 
0.5 
0.6 
5.5 
0.5 
6.6 
6.1 
0.5 
0.7 
0.5 
0.5 
0.4 

24.5 
0.8 
0.5 
1.0 
1.0 

12.5 


Free 
Acids. 


1.0 
1.1 

0.0 
1.2 
1.0 
0.0 
2.0 
0.0 
0.0 
1.5 
0.8 
1.8 
0.7 
0.2 
0.0 
0.8 
1.3 
0.3 
1.0 
0.0 


Sugar. 


5.0 
15.6 
4.5 
10.2 
8.0 
6.5 
53.0 
57.5 
7.0 
15.0 
9.0 
1.8 
7.0 
0.0 
6  0 
4.0 
1.8 
6.2 
0.0 


Fats. 


0.0 
0.0 
0.6 
0.0 
0.0 

35.0 
0.0 
0.2 
1.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 

50.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 

31.6 


Other 
non-ni- 
trogen- 
ous sub- 
stances 


8.4 

11.5 

4.2 

7.0 

8.0 

3.9 

6.3 

17.8 

15.6 

4.8 

5.1 

3.1 

11.4 

8.1 

16.2 

10.7 

8.2 

1.3 

3.5 

9.7 


Mineral 
Matters. 


0.4 
0.8 
0.8 
0.5 
1.0 
1.0 
0.7 
1.6 
2.3 
0.5 
0.4 
0.6 
0.6 
0.3 
1.8 
0.7 
0.5 
0.5 
0.8 
1.7 


The  most  wholesome  and  nutritious  fruits  are  the  bland  varieties,  like  apples,  grapes, 
pears,  strawberries,  and  gooseberries,  although  the  latter,  as  well  as  currants  and  raspber- 
ries, are  less  wholesome  than  the  others.  Stone  fruits  are  apt  to  disagree  with  the  stomach, 
but  the  more  watery,  like  peaches  and  large  plums,  are  better  than  those  which  are  smaller 
and  drier,  like  apricots  and  damsons.  Bananas  are  wholesome.  The  skin  of  fruits,  and 
the  cellular  parts  in  general,  are  not  readily  digested.  The  pulp  of  oranges  renders  them 
heavy. 

Fruit  may  be  eaten  with  a  meal  or  on  an  empty  stomach .  The  quantity  which  should 
be  taken  depends  on  the  kind.  A  healthy  person  may  now  and  then  eat  the  bland,  nutri- 
tious fruits,  as  freely  as  any  other  wholesome  food,  but,  as  a  rule,  he  will  gain  most  if  he 
eats  but  little,  and  takes  it  regularly.  Whatever  fruit  is  eaten  uncooked,  must  be  fully 
ripe,  but  not  over-ripe.  When  eaten  with  a  meal,  fruit  promotes  digestion  by  its  gently 
irritating  effect  on  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  stomach  and  intestine.  For  a  laxative 
effect  it  is  best  eaten  in  the  early  morning  before  breakfast,  or  between  meals.  Among  the 
laxative  fruits  may  be  mentioned  oranges,  figs,  tamarinds,  prunes,  mulberries,  dates,  nec- 
tarines, apricots  and  plums.  In  the  early  morning  an  orange  acts  very  decidedly  as  a  lax- 
ative, sometimes  amounting  to  a  purgative,  and  may  generally  be  relied  on.  Pomegranites, 


296  FRUITS. 

cranberries,  blackberries,  sumach  berries,  dewberries,  raspberries,  barberries,  quinces, 
pears,  wild  cherries,  and  medlars  are  astringent.  Pomegranites  are  very  astringent,  and 
relieve  a  relaxed  throat  and  uvula.  Apples  are  correctives,  useful  in  nausea  and  the  vom- 
iting of  pregnancy;  they  at  once  relieve  the  nausea  due  to  smoking.  Grapes  and  raisins 
are  nutritive  and  demulcent,  and  very  grateful  in  the  sick  chamber.  Among  the  fruits 
which  act  as  diuretics  are,  grapes,  peaches,  strawberries,  whortleberries,  prickly  pears, 
black  currants  and  melon  seeds.  Lemons,  limes,  apples,  gooseberries,  red  and  white  cur- 
rants, pumpkins  and  melons  are  refrigerants. 

Cooking  removes  much  of  the  acidity  from  unripe  fruit,  and  renders  it  lighter  as 
well  as  more  palatable.  The  acid  of  unripe  fruit  acts  as  an  irritant  poison,  causing  an 
excessive  intestinal  secretion  with  more  or  less  irritation,  and  hence  arises  the  resulting 
diarrhoea.  On  the  other  hand,  fruit  which  is  over-ripe,  in  which  fermentation  has  begun, 
frequently  causes  the  same  disorder,  and  should  be  equally  avoided,  although  less  easily 
avoided  because  the  insidious  beginning  of  decay  is  not  easily  recognized. 

The  pleasant  flavor  of  many  of  the  fruit  sauces  depends  on  blending  the  acids  which 
fruits  contain,  with  sugar,  and  much  of  the  success  of  the  various  cooking  operations  in 
which  they  are  used  depends  on  the  proper  combination  of  these  elements.  If  the  acid 
was  neutralized,  as  might  easily  be  done  with  an  alkali,  the  piquancy  would  be  gone,  and 
the  product  would  taste  insipid  and  flat.  The  aim,  therefore,  is  not  to  wholly  neutralize 
the  acid,  but  merely  to  blend  it  agreeably  with  sweetening. 


FRESH  FRUITS: 

Serving  Fruit. — Fruit  for  the  table  should  be  selected  with  care,  and  choose 
only  that  which  is  ripe  and  perfect.  In  arranging  it  for  the  table  there  is  an 
opportunity  to  display  one's  taste  and  ingenuity.  The  garnishing  requires  atten- 
tion. Arrange  the  fruit  tastefully  on  dishes,  with  leaves  between  and  around  it, 
as  the  contrast  of  brilliantly  colored  fruits  with  nicely  arranged  foliage  is  very 
charming.  The  double-edged  mallow,  strawberry  and  vine  leaves  have  a  pleasing 
effect,  and  in  winter  the  bay  and  laurel  are  sometimes  used.  For  the  breakfast 
table  melons,  oranges,  and  small  fruits  are  generally  served,  but  for  the  dinner 
table  all -fruits  are  served  in  their  season.  Serve  whole  fruit  in  a  raised  dish, 
blending  the  colors  harmoniously,  and  mix  in  any  pretty  green  leaves  or  vines. 
Arrange  them  conveniently  for  serving,  and  so  that  they  will  not  fall  out  when 
moved. 

Have  fruit  fresh,  and  as  cold  as  possible  when  served.  That  which  has  stood 
for  some  days  in  a  warm  room  is  not  very  tempting.  Pounded  ice  is  an  agreeable 
addition  to  a  dish  of  raspberries,  strawberries,  or  currants.  Pound  it  in  a  clean 
cloth  until  it  is  almost  as  fine  as  snow,  and  then  spread  it  over  the  berries.  If 
sliced  fruits  or  berries  are  sprinkled  with  sugar  and  allowed  to  stand  1  or  2  hours 
before  serving,  they  will  be  much  improved. 

Grape  scissors,  a  melon  knife  and  fork,  and  nutcrackers  should  always  be  put 
on  the  table  if  there  are  dishes  of  fruit  requiring  their  use. 

There  are  many  very  attractive  ways  of  preparing  fresh  fruits  for  desserts,  etc., 
which  we  explain  elsewhere,  such  as  "Frozen  Fruit,"  "Frosted  or  Iced  Fruit," 
"Glaces,"  "Cream-Coated  Fruit,"  "Fruit  Molds,"  "Fruit  Ice  Creams,"  etc.,  which 
the  reader  can  readily  refer  to. 

Apples. — Choose  those  which  are  not  too  sour,  and  which  have  a  pleasant 
taste;  wipe  them  clean,  or  polish  brightly  with  a  cloth,  and  mix  together  differ- 
ent colors,  like  red  and  yellow,  piling  them  up  on  a  dish. 

Tlie  Apple  belongs'  to  the  rose  order.  The  cultivated  varieties  have  sprung  from  the 
wild  apple  or  crab.  This  delightful  fruit  is  made  very  wholesome  by  baking  or  boiling.  The 
acid  is  mainly  malic.  The  hard  acid  kinds  are  unwholesome  if  eaten  raw,  but  by  cooking, 
a  great  deal  of  their  acid  is  decomposed  and  converted  into  sugar.  A  large  part  of  its  acid 
is  turned  to  sugar  as  the  fruit  ripens,  or  even  after  it  is  gathered,  by  the  process  of  matura- 
tion. When  apples  decay,  the  sugar  is  changed  to  a  bitter  principle,  and  the  gum  becomes 
moldy  and  offensive.  Old  cheese  has  a  remarkable  effect  in  meliorating  the  apple  when 
eaten  with  it,  probably  from  the  volatile  alkali  or  ammonia  of  the  cheese  neutralizing  the 
acid. 

Apricots. — These  need  only  a  few  green  leaves  to  garnish  them.    Pile  them 

high  on  a  glass  or  other  dish. 

The  Apricot  is  a  native  of  Armenia,  and  belongs  to  the  same  species  as  the  plum.  Its 
delicious  fruit  much  resembles  the  peach.  It  only  keeps  a  short  time,  and  is  either  eaten 
fresh  or  is  made  into  preserves  or  jelly.  It  has  sometimes  been  condemned  for  its  laxative 
qualities,  but  this  may  have  been  caused  by  eating  the  fruit  when  unripe,  or  in  too  great 
quantities.  Delicate  persons  should  use  a  liberal  quantity  of  powdered  sugar  with  them  if 
they  eat  them  uncooked.  Thekernels  are  sometimes  used  for  the  same  purposes  as  almonds. 
Apricots  contain  rather  less  water,  and  more  sugar  and  pectine  than  peaches. 


FRUITS.  297 

Bananas.  —These,  if  whole,  should  be  piled  on  either  high  or  low  dishes,  and 

high  in  the  center,  with  bright  green  leaves  to  make  them  look  pretty.    They  are 

often  mixed  in  with  oranges  and  grapes.    Bananas  make  a  delicious  dessert  if 

the  skins  are  taken  off,  and  they  are  cut  crossways  into  thin   slices,  and  then 

sugar  and  cream  served  on  them.    Or,  after  slicing  them,  sprinkle  on  sugar  and 

add  a  little  orange  juice.    Alternate  layers  of  bananas  and  oranges  (peeled  and 

sliced)  with  sugar  on  each  layer  are  very  nice.    It  will  be  an  improvement  to  let 

the  fruit  get  very  cold,  and  cover  with  whipped  cream  when  serving.    Bananas 

and  strawberries  also  go  well  together. 

The  Banana  grows  almost  everywhere  in  the  tropics.  It  is  really  a  variety  of  the  plantain, 
and  is  very  much  like  it.  It  is  a  nutritious  food,  and  contains  less  water  and  more  nitro- 
genous matter  than  most  fresh  fruits.  It  is  always  eaten  ripe,  and  then  contains  much 
sugar,  hut  little  starch.  A  pound  of  bananas  contains  as  much  nutriment  as  3  lbs.  of  pota- 
toes, and  there  is  every  reason  to  encourage  their  more  extensive  use. 

Berries. — Choose  the  freshest.    It  is  better  not  to  wash  them  unless  they  need 

it,  but  pick  them  over,  hull  them,  spread  a  layer  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 

then  put  in  another  layer  of  berries,  and  so  on  alternately.    Set  them  in  a  cold 

place  until  ready  to  serve,  and  then  put  on  a  layer  of  crushed  ice.    If  necessary  to 

wash  them,  use  cold  water,  wash  a  few  at  once,  and  then  hull  them,  handling  as 

little  as  need  be.    Do  not  stir  them  with  a  spoon  nor  drain  them  in  a  colander. 

Then  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  set  away  as  before.    Do  not  wash  berries  after 

being  hulled,  as  more  or  less  juice  escapes  with  the  hulling,  and  the  less  they  are 

then  disturbed  the  better. 

The  Blackberry  is  a  fruit  which  well  repays  cultivation,  and  is  now  found  in  its  season  in 
all  principal  cities  and  towns-  The  root  is  astringent  and  is  used  to  check  diarrhoea.  The 
composition  of  the  berry  has  been  previously  given.  It  is  wholesome  and  belongs  to  the 
order  Rosacece.  The  Mulberry,  Dewberry  and  Raspberry  belong  to  the  same  species,  and 
their  composition  and  properties  are  very  similar. 

The  Huckleberry  or  Whortleberry,  is  native  to  the  Northern  parts  of  the  world.  It  is  whole- 
some and  contains  77%  water;  5.7%  sugar;  1.3%  free  acid;  0.7%  albumenoids,  and  0.5%  mineral 
matters.  The  Blueberry  and  Bilberry  belong  to  the  same  species  and  are  similar  in  compo- 
sition and  properties. 

Cherries. — These  can  be  piled  in  rows  and  high  like  a  pyramid. 

The  Cherry  as  a  cultivated  fruit  tree  is  generally  supposed  to  be  of  Asiatic  origin.  It 
belongs  to  the  rose  order.  It  bears  a  sub-acid  fruit  which  is  wholesome,  cooling,  laxative 
and  antiscorbutic,  but  if  not  fully  ripe  should  be  eaten  cautiously,  as  it  has  a  tendency  to 
disorder  the  bowels.    Its  acid  is  principally  malic. 

Cocoanuts. — These  can  be  grated,  and  served  with  either  cream  or  jelly  as  pre- 
ferred, or  both  can  be  used;  or  serve  them  with  jelly  or  jam. 

Cocoanut  is  the  fruit  of  a  species  of  palm.  It  now  grows  in  nearly  all  tropical  regions. 
The  number  of  different  ways  in  which  it  is  made  useful  to  the  inhabitants  in  the  region  in 
which  it  grows  is  surprising.  Each  tree  yields  80  to  100  nuts  annually.  The  oil  expressed 
from  the  kernel  is  good,  and  might  be  used  as  food,  but  it  quickly  becomes  rancid.  The 
nut  should  be  eaten  moderately  only,  as  it  is  rather  difficult  of  digestion  alone,  but  in  con- 
nection with  other  food  aids  their  digestion.  It  is  more  of  a  heat-giver  than  of  a  flesh-former. 

Currants. — When  fully  ripe  these  are  delicious  and  attractive  in  appearance. 
Mix  together  the  red  and  white  on  bunches,  in  alternate  rows,  with  leaves  bor- 
dering the  outside;  or  pick  them  from  the  stem  and  sweeten  them.  They  are 
delicious  served  with  raspberries. 

The  Currant  is  suppdsed  to  be  a  native  of  Northern  Europe,  and  did  not  attract  much 
attention  till  within  the  last  100  years.  It  is  not  mentioned  by  the  ancient  Greek  and 
Roman  writers.  The  red,  white  and  black,  all  belong  to  the  same  species  as  the  gooseberry, 
and  their  composition  is  nearly  the  same.  It  is  a  wholesome  and  useful  fruit.  Its  acid  is 
principally  citric  and  malic. 

Zante  Currants  are  not  really  currants  at  all;  they  are  small  grapes  grown  in  Zante, 
which  is  an  island  near  the  Western  coast  of  Greece.  They  are  cultivated  on  an  immense 
plain  under  the  shelter  of  mountains,  and  when  gathered  and  dried  in  the  sun  and  air  they 
are  stored  in  magazines  until  ready  for  shipment.  Zante  produces  about  9,000,000  lbs.  of 
these  currants  annually.    Zante  currants  are  rather  indigestible. 

Dates,  Figs,  French  Plums,  etc. — These  are  all  served  on  small  glass  plates 

or  oval  dishes,  piled  high  in  the  center.    Garnish  them  with  green  leaves. 

The  Date  is  the  fruit  of  a  palm  tree.  It  bears  bunches,  weighing  perhaps  25  lbs.  with 
200  dates.  It  grows  extensively  in  Persia  and  throughout  Asia  and  Africa.  More  than  half 
its  weight  is  sugar.    It  is  a  gentle  laxative,  and  is  in  many  cases  to  be  preferred  to  figs. 


298  FRUITS. 

Dates  can  be  used  in  pies,  cakes,  puddings,  bread  and  sauce,  and  they  are  worthy  of  a  more 
extensive  use,  although  many  people  do  not  understand  how  to  handle  them. 

Ripe  Figs. — Peel  and  slice  fresh  figs,  and  serve  with  pulverized  sugar  and 
cream. 

The  Fig  is  a  native  of  Persia,  Asia  Minor,  etc.  The  common  fig  in  its  native  land  bears 
2  crops  a  year.  The  figs  of  commerce  come  mainly  from  Turkey  and  the  countries  border- 
ing on  the  Mediterranean.  The  fruit  contains  about  67  per  cent,  of  sugar,  and  is  wholesome 
and  nutritious,  but  the  seeds  are  indigestible,  and  sometimes  have  an  irritant  action  on  the 
bowels. 

Gooseberries. — These  should  be  piled  high,  but  need  no  other  arrangement, 

except  a  few  green  leaves  for  decoration. 

The  Gooseberry  belongs  to  the  same  order  of  plants  as  the  red  and  black  currants.  It 
does  not  appear  to  have  been  known  to  the  ancients.  The  name  is  by  some  thought  to  be  a 
corruption  of  the  Saxon  gorst  (gorse- berry,  meaning  rough-berry).  The  skin  is  very  indi- 
gestible. The  acid  is  principally  citric  and  malic.  Red  gooseberries  contain  more  acid  than 
the  white,  but  when  that  is  masked  with  sugar  they  are  most  wholesome.  The  red 
variety  makes  an  excellent  jelly  which  is  light  and  refreshing,  and  is  good  for  bilious  and 
plethoric  persons,  and  invalids  generally  who  need  light  and  digestible  food,  but  it  is  not 
very  nourishing. 

Grapes. — Examine  these  carefully,  and  pick  out  all  which  are  withered  or 

unsound.    Rinse  them  in  cold  water,  Malagas  especially.    Have  the  bunches  of 

medium  size,  dividing  the  large  ones.    They  can  be  piled  in  a  pyramid,  with  a 

few  hanging  over  the  side  of  the  dish.    Different  kinds  mixed  look  well,  by  the 

contrast  of  colors,  and  their  own  or  other  green  leaves  can  be  placed  at  the  edge 

of  the  dish.    Divide  the  bunches  with  fruit  scissors. 

Grapes  of  all  varieties  are  mostly  natives  of  tropical  and  semi-tropical  regions.  Some 
varieties  are  dried  and  sold  as  raisins  and  currants.  Fresh,  ripe  grapes,  contain  much  sugar, 
sometimes  nearly  20%,  and  the  acid  is  chiefly  tartaric,  "part  of  which  is  combined  with  pot- 
ash. All  grapes  are  nutritive  and  wholesome,  but  they  iare  subject  to  fermentations,  and 
when  eaten  immoderately  sometimes  bring  on  colic.  In  moderation  they  may  be  safely 
eaten  even  by  invalids,  and  are  refrigerant,  diuretic  and  laxative. 

Melons. — These  should  be  very  cold  when  served,  and  are  best  kept  on  ice  a 
few  hours  before  serving.  They  may  be  cut  in  strips  and  piled  up  on  a  platter, 
or  merely  cut  crosswaySo  The  ice  should  not  be  allowed  to  come  in  contact  with 
the  inside  of  the  melon.  Eat  with  a  spoon  or  fork.  They  are  eaten  alone,  or 
with  salt,  sugar  or  pepper,  sprinkled  on. 

Cantelopes. — Chill  by  keeping  them  on  ice  before  serving;  cut  them  in  two, 

remove  the  seeds,  and  serve  a  half  to  each  person.    Serve  salt  with  them.    Eat 

with  a  spoon. 

The  Melon  belongs  to  the  gourd  tribe.  It  has  never  been  found  in  a  wild  state,  but  is 
supposed  to  be  a  native  of  the  sub-tropical  parts  of  Asia;  it  is  properly  the  fruit  of  a  hot 
climate.  It  was  originally  named  the  musk  melon.  The  watermelon  although  less  sweet 
than  the  muskmelon  is  more  juicy.  There  are  many  varieties,  but  all  are  wholesome.  In 
their  season  melons  are  beneficial  because  of  their  action  on  the  kidneys,  but  they  should 
not  be  eaten  unless  of  good  quality  and  fully  ripe.  The  composition  of  watermelon  is  92% 
water;  6%  carbohydrates;  1%  albumenoids;  0.7%  fat,  and  0.3%  mineral  matters. 

Olives. — These  can  be  most  attractively  served  by  draining  them  and  putting 
them  in  a  small  fancy  dish  on  a  bed  of  broken  ice,  with  a  small  silver  fork  in  the 
dish.  They  are  served  at  dinners,  lunches  and  suppers,  and  are  placed  on  the 
table  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal  and  are  left  until  it  is  over.  If  they  are  too 
salt  let  them  soak  in  cold  water  an  hour  before  serving  them.  On  taking  them 
from  the  table  put  them  in  a  bottle  of  slightly  salted  water,  covering  them  com- 
pletely to  keep  them  from  darkening  in  color. 

The  Olive  tree  is  a  native  of  the  south  of  Europe.  The  fruit  is  valuable  in  its  ripe  and 
unripe  state.  Unripe  olives  are  pickled  in  various  ways,  being  usually  pickled  in  lime 
water  which  renders  them  softer  and  milder  in  taste.  They  are  eaten  to  destroy  the  taste 
of  viands  previously  eaten,  and  to  promote  digestion.  The  well-known  olive  oil  is  obtained 
mainly  from  the  external  part  of  the  ripe  fruit. 

Oranges. — These  may  be  served  whole,  piled  up  like  a  pyramid  or  mixed  in 
with  bananas  and  grapes.  If  served  whole  they  can  be  cut  in  two  crossways, 
without  peeling  them;  then  eat  with  a  spoon,  sprinkling  on  sugar  or  not  as  pre- 
ferred.   Or  they  can  be  served  cut  in  halves,  and  laid  on  green  leaves;  or  with 


FRUITS.  299 

the  peeling  cut  and  rolled  down.  Or  they  can  be  peeled,  divided  into  sections, 
the  seeds  taken  out  and  each  one  cut  in  3  pieces  with  a  silver  knife;  then  sprinkle 
on  sugar  just  before  serving.  In  Havana  a  fork  is  run  into  the  orange  from  the 
stem  end,  which  serves  as  a  handle;  then  with  a  sharp  knife  the  peel  is  cut  in 
strips  and  turned  down  from  the  top,  and  the  orange  is  eaten,  which  leaves  the 
fibrous  pulp  on  the  fork. 

Oranges  and  Cocoanut. — Peel  and  slice  oranges,  put  a  layer  in  a  glass  dish, 
sprinkle  on  white  sugar  and  add  grated  or  desiccated  cocoanut,  then  another  layer 
of  oranges,  and  so  on,  ending  with  sugar  and  cocoanut  on  top.  It  should  be  pre- 
pared in  the  morning,  and  left  in  a  cool  place  until  tea  time,  or  on  ice.  A  glass 
of  lemon  and  orange  juice  mixed  and  poured  over  all,  will  be  an  improvement. 

The  Orange  belongs  to  the  citrus  family,  to  which  the  citron,  lime,  shaddock,  pomaloe, 
etc.,  belong.  They  are  all  characterized  by  varying  quantities  of  citron  acid,  citrate  of 
potash  and  sugar  in  their  fleshy  parts.  The  peeled  fruit  contains  about  86%  of  water,  8  to 
10%  of  sugar,  and  small  quantities  of  citric  acid,  albumen,  cellulose,  etc.  In  buying  oranges 
remember  that  the  sweetest  ones  have  rough,  reddish  skins,  while  those  with  a  thin,  light 
yellow  skin,  will  be  more  juicy,  but  also  more  acid.  They  are  not  ripe  when  picked  if  they 
have  a  greenish  tinge.  Oil  of  neroli  is  obtained  from  orange  flowers.  The  fruit  is  quite 
wholesome. 

Peaches. — These  should  have  the  fur  wiped  off,  but  any  other  garnish  than  a 
few  green  leaves  is  superfluous,  as  their  own  color  is  so  rich.  They  make  a  beau- 
tiful center  dish.  Or  they  can  be  pared,  sliced,  granulated  sugar  sprinkled  on, 
and  served  at  once,  and  cream  passed  for  them.  Some  people  think  it  an  im- 
provement to  grate  nutmeg  over  sliced  peaches.  Try  it.  Or  they  can  be  frozen 
or  frosted  by  the  methods  we  explain  elsewhere,  and  made  very  attractive. 

The  Nectarine  can  be  treated  like  the  peach. 

The  Peach  tree  belongs  to  the  Rose  order,  is  a  native  of  Persia  and  greatly  resembles  the 
almond-tree.  All  the  varieties  are  divided  into  2  classes— "freestones"  and  "clingstones," 
the  former  being  the  best.  Too  much  down  on  a  peach  is  a  sign  of  inferior  quality. 
Although  a  delicious  fruit  it  contains  little  nutritive  matter.  It  contains  little  sugar,  but 
the  malic  acid  it  contains  is  masked  by  its  pectose.  The  skin  is  indigestible.  Its  acid  is 
principally  tartaric.  The  kernels  of  peach  stones  yield  an  oil  identical  with  that  of  bitter 
almonds. 

The  Nectarine  is  only'  a  variety  of  the  peach. 

Pears. — Wipe  them  with  a  cloth,  and  pile  them  high  like  a  pyramid,  with  a 

few  green  leaves  at  the  base.    For  eating,  select  fine  grained  pears. 

The  Pear  belongs  to  the  same  order  as  the  quince  and  the  apple,  and  is  one  of  the  most 
valuable  fruit  trees  of  temperate  climates;  there  are  about  150  varieties,  but  none  of  them 
keep  as  well  as  apples.  They  are  perfectly  wholesome  when  ripe,  but  not  when 
green,  although  they  may  then  be  stewed.  A  fermented  liquor  called  perry  is  made  from 
the  pear.    Its  acid  is  tartaric  principally. 

Persimmons. — When  dead  ripe  the  skin  will  be  so  tough  that  the  calix  may  be 

pulled  out,  and  then  the  delicious  contents  may  be  taken  out  with  a  spoon,  but  it 

is  very  astringent  unless  fully  ripe. 

Persimmon  is  the  fruit  of  the  Diospyros  virginiana.  It  grows  in  the  Southern  States,  but  is 
seldom  found  north  of  40°.  When  green  the  fruit  is  very  astringent,  but  when  ripe,  or 
when  mellowed  by  frost,  it  is  sweet  and  luscious.  By  a  course  of  cross  fertilization  and 
selection  the  Japanese  are  said  to  have  brought  this  fruit  to  great  perfection. 

Pineapples. — A  handsome  center-piece  is  formed  with  a  pineapple  surrounded 

with  oranges  and  grapes.    A  pineapple  may  be  pared,  and  then  holding  it  by  the 

tuft,  use  a  sharp  knife  and  start  the  fruit  in  thin  slices  and  tear  each  piece  from 

the  hard  central  core;  then  ci  t  them  into  small  pieces,  add  sugar  and  allow  it  to 

stand  in  the  refrigerator  some  time  before  serving,  to  form  juice.    Another  way 

is  to  cut  off  the  tuft,  then  cut  the  pineapple  into  quarters  lengthwise;  take  out 

the  hard  core,  and  grate  off  the  fruit  until  the  rind  is  reached.     Pineapple  forms 

a  good  dessert  served  with  lady-fingers  or  slices  of  sponge  cake  in  a  row  around 

the  dish.    The  "strawberry"  is  considered  the  best,  and  the  "sugar-loaf"  next.    It 

is  also  nice  served  in  alternate  layers  with  cocoanut  and  oranges,  with  sugar 

between  the  layers;  after  preparing,  set  it  in  the  refrigerator  till  ready  to  serve. 


300  FRUITS. 

The  rind  of  pineapple  contains  an  acid  which  will  make  the  lips  and  mouth  sore  if  it 
gets  on  them;  therefore,  peel  it  with  one  knife,  and  slice  it  with  a  clean  fresh  one.  Salt  is 
used  as  an  antidote  for  the  acid  if  it  gets  on  the  lips. 

The  Pineapple  is  a  native  of  South  America,  but  has  been  naturalized  in  many  semi- 
tropical  countries.  The  fruit  is  eaten  fresh,  and  although  the  taste  is  delicious  it  is  not 
very  digestible.  It  is  very  perishable.  It  contains  little  nutrition,  having  89  %  of  water, 
9%  of  carbohydrates,  0.4%  albumenoids,  0.3%  fat  and  0.3%  mineral  matters.  When  eaten 
uncooked  they  are  best  if  prepared  and  placed  on  ice  2  or  3  hours  before  being  served. 

Pomegranites. — Remove  the  skin,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  carefully  remove 

all  the  thin   brown    skin  separating    the    sections;  mix  the    seeds  with  finely 

pounded  ice  on  a  pretty  dish,  and  serve. 

Pomegranite  is  native  to  Asia  and  probably  Africa.  It  has  never  come  into  very  exten- 
sive use  in  Europe  or  America.  The  pulp  has  a  delicate  pleasant  flavor,  and  its  sub-acid 
juice  makes  it  cooling  and  grateful  in  warm  climates.  The  rind  is  very  astringent  (caused 
by  the  tannin  it  contains)  and  a  decoction  of  it  makes  a  good  gargle  for  sore  throat,  and  is 
good  for  diarrhoea. 

Tamarind.— This  is  a  native  of  the  West  Indies,  but  is  cultivated  in  warm  climates. 
The  pulp  contains  citric,  tartaric,  and  malic  acids,  with  potash,  sugar,  etc.  It  is  refriger- 
ant and  laxative.'  Tamarinds  are  best  preserved  by  putting  alternate  layers  of  tamarinds 
and  sugar  into  a  stone  jar.  That  sold  in  the  market  is  often  adulterated  with  copper.  It 
may  be  detected  with  a  piece  of  polished  iron  or  steel,  as  directed  for  pickles  in  the  chapter 
on  the  "Adulteration  of  Food." 

Plums. — Pile  these  in  pyramidal  form.    A  pretty  effect  is  produced  by  adding 

sprays  of  nasturtium  leaves  and  blossoms. 

The  Plum  has  been  cultivated  from  ancient  times,  and  the  first  fine  varieties  were  prob- 
ably introduced  into  Europe  f rdm  the  East,  the  Damson  or  Damascene  taking  its  name  from 
Damascus.  When  perfectly  ripe  the  best  varieties  are  wholesome.  Some  varieties  are  too 
astringent,  though  by  baking  they  lose  much  of  their  bad  qualities,  and  are  used  in  tarts 
and  preserves,  but  they  should  be  used  with  moderation.  If  eaten  unripe,  they  are  almost 
sure  to  cause  diarrhoea.  They  are  not  very  rich  in  sugar,  but  contain  much  pectose  or  veg- 
etable jelly,  which  gives  them  their  gelatinizing  quality. 

Greengages  are  a  variety  of  plum,  although  not  the  largest  in  size;  for  delicacy  and 
richness  of  flavor  they  are  unsurpassed,  and  are  generally  esteemed  as  one  of  the  finest 
varieties. 

Prunes  are  simply  dried  plums.  They  are  often  used  for  their  laxative  effect  by  persons 
subject  to  habitual  constipation. 

The  Sloe  is  the  parent  of  the  plum.  The  leaves  have  been  used  to  adulterate  tea.  The 
juice  is  sharp  and  astringent,  and  the  fruit,  whenjripe,  makes  good  preserves. 

Raisins. — Serve  only  the  choice  varieties  on  the  table  like  the  loose  "Muscatels" 
or  layer  raisins.  They  may  be  served  with  candy  and  nuts,  or  almonds  are  some- 
times blanched  and  strewed  over  them. 

Raisins  contain  more  sugar  and  less  acid  than  fresh  grapes,  and  so  are  more  nutritious 
but  less  refrigerant.    If  eaten  too  freely  they  are  apt  to  derange  the  digestive  organs. 

Raspberries. — If  very  large  and  fine  they    are  sometimes  piled  in  rows  in 

pyramidal  form.    Otherwise  merely  pile  them  in  the  center  of  the  dish  with  a 

few  green  creepers  about  the  edge.    Some  people  prefer  them  with  little  or  no 

sugar.    Or  prepare  them  as  directed  for  "berries." 

r~  The  Raspberry  in  some  form  is  found  throughout  Europe  and  America.  There  are  3 
kinds— the  red  and  white,  the  former  being  most  common.  The  juice  is  very  wholesome 
and  valuable  to  people  of  a  nervous  or  bilious  temperament. 

Strawberries. — Serve  as  directed  for  berries.  Large  fine  berries  are  served  by 
the  French  without  hulling;  each  one  is  taken  by  the  hull  and  dipped  into 
powdered  sugar,  which  is  passed  with  them,  and  then  eaten.  They  are  also  nice 
put  into  a  dish  in  alternate  layers  of  berries  and  sugar;  then  whip  together  2  cups 
cream,  1  cup  of  pulverized  sugar  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs;  flavor  with  strawberry 
or  orange  juice,  and  put  it  on  top  of  the  berries.  Another  way  is  to  put  alternate 
layers  of  berries  and  sugar  in  a  dish;  then  take  orange  juice  in  the  proportion  of 
3  oranges  to  2  pints  of  berries,  pour  it  over,  and  set  the  dish  in  a  cool  place  for  1 
or  2  hours.    Sprinkle  pounded  ice  on  them  just  before  serving. 

Mock  Strawberries. — Use  1  part  apples  to  3  parts  peaches;  select  choice,  ripe 
fruit,  and  pare,  core,  and  cut  it  into  blocks  about  as  large  as  strawberries;  put 
them  in  a  dish  in  alternate  layers,  spread  sugar  thickly  on  top,  and  spread  on 
crushed  ice;  let  stand  2  or  3  hours,  and  then  thoroughly  mix  up  the  apples  and 
peaches;  serve  after  it  has  stood  1  hour  more. 


FRUITS.  301 

The  Strawberry  was  known  ito  the  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans,  and  is  indigenous  in  all 
temperate  climates.  It  does  not  contain  much  nutritive  matter,  but  is  very  wholesome. 
The  seed-like  pericarps  are  not  easy  of  digestion  and  sometimes  cause  intestinal  irritation 
on  which  account  some  physicians  have  recommended  passing  them  through  muslin  before 
being  eaten.  They  have  more  water  in  their  composition  than  gooseberries  or  currants, 
and  they  are  cooling,  laxative,  and  slightly  diuretic.  Some  epicures  grate  the  zest  of  an 
orange  over  them,  thinking  it  improves  the  taste,  especially  when  a  little  sugar  is  added 
also. 

Nuts. — If  served  with  the  shells  on  they  should  be  wiped.  They  are  merely 
piled  high  in  the  center  of  the  dish  with  or  without  green  leaves  around  the 
edge.  It  is  best  to  crack  them,  however,  and  serve  them  with  salt.  Nuts  with  a 
tough  skin,  like  almonds,  should  be  blanched.  Almonds,  filberts,  Brazil-nuts, 
hickory-nuts  and  walnuts,  go  well  with  raisins.  Nut  crackers  should  always  be 
provided  if  any  of  the  nuts  are  uncracked. 

Tutti  Frutti. — Prepare  a  cocoanut  by  opening  the  2  eyes  and  letting  out  the 
milk  which  must  be  strained  and  kept;  break  the  nut  with  a  hatchet,  or  saw  it 
in  two,  take  out  the  meat,  peel  off  the  brown  skin  and  grate.  Cut  2  bananas  in 
quarters  lengthwise,  and  then  cut  in  slices.  Have  ready  a  chopped  pineapple,  a 
pint  of  strawberries  or  raspberries,  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon  and 
1  orange.  Put  a  layer  of  the  fruits  and  nut  in  the  bottom  of  a  glasfe  dish,  then  a 
layer  of  granulated  sugar,  then  another  layer  of  fruit  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is 
full.  Pour  over  all,  the  milk  of  the  cocoanut  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and 
orange.    Dip  from  the  bottom  when  serving. 


DRIED   FRUITS. 

Many  people  do  not  appreciate  the  value  of  dried  fruit.  A  large  part  of  the 
water  evaporates  when  the  fruit  dries,  and  the  nutritive  portions  are  left  in  a 
more  concentrated  form.  The  percentage  of  nutritive  elements  in  dried  apples 
approaches  that  of  bread,  but  one  great  drawback  to  the  use  of  dried  fruit  is  that 
as  ordinarily  dried  many  fruits  lose  much  of  their  peculiar  and  delicate  flavor. 
Many  of  the  fruits  are  readily  and  easily  dried  and  can  thus  be  kept  for  future 
use.    Cherries  and  peaches  are  (next  to  apples)  about  the  best  of  the  dried  fruits. 

Fruits  like  apples,  etc.,  can  be  dried  by  putting  them  on  a  kind  of  sieve-like 
holder,  and  submitting  them  for  3^  hours  to  the  action  of  a  cold  air  blast. 
Thus  dried  they  are  superior  to  fruits  dried  by  the  sun  or  hot  air. 

The  new  process  of  preparing  fruit  by  evaporation  has  overcome  many  of  the  objections 
to  the  old  fashioned  dried  fruit,  and  its  sale  has  increased  enormously.  It  is  probable  that 
the  sale  of  evaporated  fruit  will  in  the  near  future  partly  or  possibly  largely  supplant 
canned  fruit  in  the  market,  as  it  possesses  many  advantages.  It  is  healthful  and  its  use 
desirable. 

Fruit  which  is  to  be  dried  should  be  ripe  and  sound.  It  should  be  spread  in  a 
single  layer  on  boards  or  in  shallow  boxes.  Insects  may  be  kept  away  by  cover- 
ing it  with  mosquito  netting.  Keep  it  spread  in  the  hot  sun  until  it  is  fully  dry, 
as  indicated  by  its  turning  dark;  never  set  it  out  in  damp  or  cloudy  weather,  and 
always  bring  it  in  before  sunset,  to  prevent  the  dew  from  falling  on  it.  The  oven 
istar*  excellent  place  to  dry  any  fruit,  as  it  dries  more  quickly,  and  is  not  so  much 
exposed  to  insects^  but  do  not  let  the  oven  become  hot  enough  to  scorch  the 
fruit  at  all.  Fruits  are  still  further  preserved  often  by  the  use  of  sugar,  as  in 
some*  of  the  recipes  which  follow. 

Keeping  it. — Dried  fruit  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  away  from  the 
light,  tightly  tied  in  thick  paper  bags,  or  in  closely  covered  jars.  By  turning  it 
occasionally  into  a  tin  pan  and  setting  it  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  tying  it  in  the  bags  again,  there  will  be  no  trouble  with  worms,  but  to  reheat 
it  thus,  injures  its  flavor  and  makes  it  dark  colored.  Security  against  moths  is 
secured  by  using  paper  sacks,  tightly  tied,  or  a  box  or  barrel  lined  with  paper. 
To  avoid  frequent  opening  of  large  packages  it  is  best  to  keep  a  small  quantity 
on  hand  in  fruit  jars.  It  is  sometimes  advised  to  scatter  sassafras  bark  among 
dried  fruit  to  keep  away  the  worms;  but  its  flavor  will  spoil  the  fruit  for  many 
people,  so  that  it  is  better  not  to  use  it. 


302  FRUITS. 

To  cook  dried  fruit  let  it  soak  a  few  hours,  or  over  night,  in  soft  water,  and  it 
will  then  need  less  boiling;  then  slip  it  carefully  into  an  aluminum,  earthen, 
granite  or  porcelain-lined  sauce-pan,  and  cook  it  in  the  same  water  until  done, 
thus  keeping  it  in  shape;  it  is  best  not  to  add  the  sugar  for  sweetening  until 
about  5  minutes  before  taking  it  from  the  stove.  Another  good  way  is  to  drain 
the  water  off  when  soaked,  add  sugar  to  make  a  syrup,  let  it  boil  up,  turn  in  the 
soaked  fruit  and  cook  until  tender;  it  equals  canned  fruit  when  thus  cooked. 

Dried  Apples. — The  apples  should  be  pared,  cut  into  slices,  and  dried  in  the 
sun  or  the  oven  as  above  explained. 

Pears  and  Quinces  can  be  dried  the  same  as  apples. 

Apples,  to  Skin. — By  pouring  scalding  water  on  apples  the  skin  may  be  easily 
slipped  off  and  much  labor  in  paring  them  saved. 

Dried  Blackberries. — The  cheapest  way  to  preserve  them  is  to  carefully  dry 
them  in  the  sun  as  you  would  apples.  Thus  preserved  they  make  excellent  pies. 
Keep  them  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Dried  Cherries. — (1)  Cherries  may  be  put  into  a  slow  oven  and  thoroughly 
dried  before  they  begin  to  change  color.  They  should  then  be  taken  out  of  the 
oven,  tied  in  bunches,  and  stored  away  in  a  dry  place.  Particular  care  must  be 
taken  that  the  oven  is  not  too  hot.  (2)  Another  method  is  to  take  the  stones  and 
stems  from  ripe  cherries;  spread  them  on  flat  dishes,  and  dry  them  in  a  warm 
oven  or  the  hot  sun;  pour  whatever  juice  may  have  run  from  them,  a  little  at  a 
time,  over  them;  stir  them  about,  that  they  may  dry  evenly.  When  they  are 
perfectly  dry,  line  boxes  or  jars  with  white  paper,  and  pack  them  close,  in  layers; 
strew  on  a  little  brown  sugar,  fold  the  paper  over,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 
(3)  Another  plan  for  cherries  is  to  take  equal  quantities  of  cherries  and  sugar; 
boil  the  sugar  to  a  caramel;  have  the  cherries  stoned,  throw  them  into  the  cara- 
mel, and  let  them  cool.  Then  take  them  out  and  put  them  in  a  sieve  to  dry,  in  a 
slow  oven,  watching  them  carefully. 

Dried  Citron. — Pare  and  quarter  it,  and  boil  it  in  water  until  it  is  clear,  and  so 
tender  that  a  broom-straw  will  readily  penetrate  it;  then  have  ready  a  syrup  of 
sugar  and  water,  drain  the  citron,  and  boil  it  in  the  syrup  until  the  sugar  per- 
meates it;  then  dry  it  slowly,  spread  out  on  dishes,  turning  it  occasionally,  and 
sprinkling  on  powdered  sugar  several  times.  When  sufficiently  dried,  pack  it  in 
alternate  layers  of  citron  and  sugar,  in  boxes  and  jars.  It  can  be  used  for 
cakes,  etc. 

The,  Citron  belongs  to  the  same  genus  as  the  orange  and  lemon.  It  is  a  native  of  India, 
but  is  cultivated  in  all  orange-growing  countries.  It  is  acidulous,  antiseptic,  and  anti- 
scorbutic and  has  been  recommended  for  chronic  rheumatism,  gout  and  scurvy.  It  is  not 
unsuited  for  eating  in  its  natural  state,  and  the  juice  mixed  with  water  and  sweetened 
forms  an  excellent  drink.  The  prepared  rind  or  peel  is  much  used  for  cooking  and  con- 
fectionery. 

Dried  Currants. — Put  alternate  layers  of  currants  and  sugar  in  a  jar,  using  1 
cup  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  currants;  let  stand  until  the  next  day,  and  bring 
them  to  a  boil,  and  boil  34  hour;  skim  them,  and  then  dry  in  a  slow  oven  or  the 
sun,  spreading  them  out  on  plates.  They  serve  well  in  pudding  or  pies  instead 
of  raisins.  Keep  them  in  paper  bags,  or  in  stone  crocks  well  covered,  or  pack 
them  in  sugar  in  glass  jars. 

Dried  Gooseberries.— -(1)  To  7  lbs.  of  red  gooseberries,  add  1%  lbs.  powdered 
sugar,  which  must  be  strewed  over  them  in  the  preserving  pan;  let  them  remain  at 
a  good  heat  over  a  slow  fire  until  they  begin  to  break;  then  remove  them;  repeat 
this  process  for  2  or  3  days;  then  take  the  gooseberries  from  the  syrup,  and  spread 
them  on  sieves  to  dry.  The  syrup  may  be  used  for  other  purposes.  When  the 
gooseberries  are  quite  dry,  store  them  in  tin  boxes  on  layers  of  paper.    (2)  They 


FRUITS.  303 

are  sometimes  dried  in  a  moderate  oven  or  the  sun,  without  the  sugar,  as  directed 
for  cherries.    Select  firm,  ripe  fruit. 

Dried  Peaches. — (1)  Take  free-stone  peaches,  cut  in  halves  arid  place  them  on 
plates,  hollow  side  up;  fill  the  hollows  with  granulated  sugar,  and  place  in  a  slow 
oven,  or  in  the  sun,  if  the  weather  is  fine,  until  they  are  half  dry;  then  pack  them 
in  glass  jars,  hollow  side  down;  first  a  layer  of  dry  sugar,  then  a  layer  of  peaches 
mashed  flat  with  the  small  end  of  a  potato  masher,  then  layers  of  sugar  and  fruit 
until  the  jar  is  full,  having  a  layer  of  sugar  on  top.  Screw  on  the  covers,  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  closet.  (2)  Another  way  is  to  put  well-ripened  peaches  in 
boiling  water  for  1  or  2  minutes — a  whole  bushel  can  be  put  in  the  boiler  at  once; 
then  turn  off  the  water  and  the  skins  can  be  more  easily  and  quickly  removed,  they 
can  be  stoned  easier,  they  will  dry  quicker,  and  are  better  when  dried.  Dry  them, 
sprinkled  with  sugar,  in  a  moderate  oven  or  in  the  sun.  (3)  They  can  also  be 
dried  without  removing  the  skins,  but  the  fur  should  be  well  rubbed  with  a  piece 
of  flannel;  then  dry  like  apples. 

Peach  Chips. — Use  1  cup  of  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  fruit;  boil  the  sugar  in  water 
enough  to  dissolve  it,  until  it  becomes  very  thick;  then  put  in  the  peaches,  which 
should  be  peeled  and  sliced,  and  scald  them  well;  then  take  them  out  with  the 
skimmer  and  dry  in  the  sun.  When  dry,  pack  closely  in  jars  in  layers,  with  pow- 
dered sugar  between  each  layer.  The  syrup  left  can  be  bottled,  and  used  in  pud- 
ding sauces,  blanc  manges,  etc.  The  chips  can  be  used  in  puddings  instead  of 
raisins. 

Dried  Pineapple. — Pare  and  slice  the  fruit  thinly,  put  it  on  dishes,  and  strew 
on  it  a  plenty  of  powdered  sugar;  keep  it  in  a  very  slow  oven  8  or  10  days,  and 
turn  the  fruit  every  day  until  dry;  then  put  the  pieces  of  pineapples  on  tins  and 
place  them  in  a  quick  oven  for  10  minutes.  Let  them  cool,  and  store  them  away 
in  dry  boxes,  with  paper  between  each  layer. 

Dried  Plums. — -These  need  not  be  pared;  rub  the  skin  thoroughly  with  a 
piece  of  flannel,  and  dry  in  the  sun  or  an  oven,  like  apples. 

Dried  Watermelon  Kinds. — These  can  be  dried  in  the  sun  after  being  pre- 
served, and  they  can  be  used  instead  of  the  imported  citron  for  cakes  and  pud- 
dings, answering  very  well. 

GOOKED   FRUITS. 

Baking,  stewing  and  frying  are  the  simplest  and  easiest  ways  of  cooking  fruit. 
Do  not  pare  the  fruit  long  before  cooking  it,  or  it  will  discolor  by  exposure  to  the 
air,  and  its  delicate  flavor  will  be  impaired.  Cook  it  in  aluminum,  earthen  or 
porcelain  kettles,  and  use  earthen  dishes,  silver  or  aluminum  knives  and  wooden 
spoons,  as  iron  or  pewter  spoons  may  cause  discoloration.  It  is  better  not  to 
prepare  a  great  deal  of  stewed  fruit  at  once,  as  it  does  not  keep  long.  Only  a  lit- 
tle sugar  is  needed. 

Using  Sugar. — Many  cooks  do  not  understand  the  use  of  sugar  in  cooking 
fruit.  The  sugar  in  ordinary  use  is  cane  sugar,  and  is  2%  times  as  sweet  as  grape 
sugar,  but  is  closely  allied  to  it,  as  we  have  explained  elsewhere.  Cane  sugar  can 
be  changed  to  grape  sugar  by  cooking  it  with  acids  and  thus  its  sweetening  power 
will  be  reduced  to  that  of  grape  sugar.  Some  cooks  put  their  sugar  in  with  a 
mass  of  acid  fruit  to  be  cooked,  and  keep  cooking  and  adding  sugar  as  the  mass 
gets  sweeter,  until  at  last  they  use  2%  times  as  much  sugar  as  they  need  to  do, 
because  the  cane  sugar  becomes  changed  to  grape  sugar.  If  the  sugar  had  been 
added  after  the  fruit  was  cooked,  much  less  would  have  been  required,  and  the 
result  would  have  been  far  more  satisfactory.  By  bearing  this  in  mind  a  large 
saving  can  be  made  in  the  use  of  sugar.  Many  people  misapprehend  the  effect  of 
sugar  on  the  acids  of  fruits.  Enough  sugar  can  be  added  to  disguise  the  taste 
of  the  acid,  but  it  does  not  neutralize  it  as  an  alkali  would  do,  nor  does  it  effect 
any  chemical  change  in  the  acid  whatever. 


304  FRUITS. 

Baked  Apples. — Wash  sour  apples,  wipe  them  dry,  and  remove  the  cores;  fill 
the  holes  with  sugar,  and  add  a  little  spice  and  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  apple; 
put  3^  cup  of  hot  water  in  the  pan  and  bake  the  apples  until  tender.  Serve  with 
spongecake.  If  preferred,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  can  be  mixed  with  the  sugar 
instead  of  the  spice  and  butter;  baste  often  with  the  syrup  as  they  bake.  Baked 
apples  served  with  or  without  flavored  milk,  are  delicious. 

Baked  Apples  and  Oranges. — Take  6  good  sweet  apples;  remove  the  blossom 
end,  pare,  and  put  in  a  baking-pan;  sprinkle  on  1  small  cup  sugar.  Invert  a  pan 
over  them,  and  bake  until  tender;  let  them  cool  in  their  own  juice,  then  pile  high 
in  a  glass  fruit  dish;  pour  the  sweetened  juice  and  pulp  of  3  oranges  over  them, 
and  sprinkle  on  the  grated  yellow  rind. 

Boiled  Apples. — Take  12  good  whole  apples;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  and  pour 
on  2  cups  boiling  water;  boil  until  soft,  and  sweeten  On  taking  them  from  the 
stove.    Serve  hot  or  cold — best  cold. 

Apple  Butter. — Boil  new  cider  down  %;  then  add  an  equal  quantity  of  apples 
which  have  been  pared,  quartered  and  cored;  boil  until  the  apples  are  tender,  and 
then  sweeten  with  light  brown  sugar,  and  boil,  with  constant  stirring,  until  it  is 
reduced  to  a  smooth,  buttery  mass;  spice  to  taste  and  put  away  in  stone  jars.  If 
cooked  properly,  the  spices  can  be  omitted  if  desired,  as  the  true  apple  flavor  is 
preserved  better  without  them.    It  is  better  if  left  slightly  tart. 

Fried  Apples. — Cut  sour  apples  from  the  cores  in  small  chunks — do  not  peel 
them — and  put  them  in  a  frying-pan  with  the  fat  fried  from  2  or  3  slices  of  salt 
pork;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them,  cover  tightly  with  a  plate,  and  place  on  the 
stove  where  they  will  cook  slowly  %  hour.  Serve  as  a  sauce  for  meat  at  dinner. 
They  are  also  good  cold  with  bread  and  butter. 

Glaced  Apples. — Partially  stew  large  whole  apples;  take  them  out  and  bake 
them.  Take  the  water  in  which  they  stewed,  add  white  sugar,  and  boil  until  it 
will  form  a  soft  candy  when  cool  (about  the  "crack''  degree).  Arrange  the  baked 
apples  on  the  dish  in  which  they  will  be  served,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them 
hot.  When  cold,  an  amber  coating  of  soft  candy  will  have  formed  about  each 
apple,  which  will  add  to  its  appearance  and  taste. 

Apple  Meringues. — Take  6  apples,  peel,  quarter  and  core  them;  set  them  over 
the  tire  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  2  tablespoons  of  water,  stirring  occasionally  until 
done;  then  mix  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  with  them,  and  arrange  them  into  a 
mound  in  a  silver  or  tin  dish.  Take  the  well-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  and  add 
3  oz.  pulverized  sugar;  spread  %  of  this  over  and  around  the  apples,  smoothing 
it  with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water;  put  the  remainder  in  a  piping  bag  (see 
"Piping")  and  decorate  the  dish  according  to  taste,  or  put  small  knots  here  and 
there,  over  and  around  the  dish.  Dust  with  sugar,  and  put  into  a  hot  oven  20  or 
25  minutes.    Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

Apple  Sauce. — Select  12  sour  apples,  pare,  core  and  fill  the  holes  with  sugar; 
when  cooked  very  soft,  mash  through  a  sieve  into  a  small  pudding  dish,  and  add 
the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon;  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  of  white 
sugar;  add  it,  and  brown  slightly.    Eat  cold. 

Improved  Apple  Sauce. — Pare  and  core  10  tart  apples  and  stew  with  as 
little  water  as  possible;  then  add  1  cup  powdered  sugar;  whip  the  whites  of  4 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  apples,  and  stir  rapidly  for  a  few  minutes.  Set 
aside  to  cool,  and  serve  with  sweetened  cream  flavored  with  lemon.  It  some- 
what resembles  ice  cream,  and  makes  a  delicious  dessert  served  with  nice  cake. 

Improved  Apple  Sauce  No.  2. — Too  sweet  apples  do  not  cook  well.    Cook  the 


FRUITS.  305 

sliced  apples,  in  barely  water  enough  to  cover  them,  until  tender  enough  to  mash 
easily  through  a  colander;  sweeten  while  warm,  and  season  with  rose-water, 
lemon  juice  and  nutmeg.    Lemon  peel  stewed  with  them  adds  a  delicate  flavor. 

Cider  Apple  Sauce. — Take  &  quarts  of  sweet  apples,  pared,  quartered  and 
cored;  add  2  quarts  of  cider  either  sweet  or  boiled;  cover  with  a  plate,  and  boil 
slowly  but  steadily  until  the  apples  are  cooked. 

Dried  Apple  Sauce. — Look  over  and  wash  the  apples,  and  let  them  soak  over 
night  in  soft  water;  cook  them  next  morning,  slowly  and  without  stirring,  until 
they  are  tender;  about  5  minutes  before  taking  from  the  stove  add  sugar  to 
sweeten;  mash  through  a  sieve,  and  flavor  with  cinnamon. 

Dried  Peach  Sauce  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  do  not  mash  it,  and  season 
it  less. 

Bananas,  Baked.— Peel  the  bananas,  cut  them  in  halves,  and  put  them  in  a 
shallow  pan;  for  each  banana  allow  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of  hot 
water;  melt  a  little  butter  in  the  hot  water  and  pour  it  over  the  bananas;  with 
the  sugar  mix  a  little  salt  and  spice  or  lemon  juice,  sprinkle  it  on  top,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  till  brown. 

Fried  Bananas.— (1)  Choose  bananas  which  are  not  quite  ripe  (the  "Plantain" 
being  best);  peel,  slice,  and  drop  them  into  a  frying-pan  containing  smoking  hot 
fat,  about  X  inch  deep;  they  will  soon  brown;  then  take  them  out  and  serve  hot, 
sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt,  or,  if  for  dessert,  sprinkle  with  sugar  instead. 
(2)  Or  peel,  slice,  egg  and  bread-crumb  them,  and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown  in  a 
kettle  of  smoking  hot  fat;  drain  on  a  sieve  or  blotting  paper  and  serve. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Pick  over  the  berries,  wash  and  scald  them,  and  put  on  to 
stew  over  a  moderate  fire,  adding  1  cup  water  for  each  pound  of  cranberries; 
cover,  and  stew  slowly,  stirring  as  little  as  possible.  If  boiled  hard,  especially 
when  first  put  on  the  stove,  it  is  apt  to  separate  the  skin  from  the  berry.  Sweeten 
them  to  taste  on  taking  them  from  the  stove.  Part  of  the  acid  can  be  extracted 
from  the  cranberries,  so  that  less  sugar  will  be  needed  to  sweeten  them,  if  they 
are  allowed  to  stand  first,  for  about  5  minutes  in  boiling  water;  then  drain  them 
out,  and  set  them  on  to  stew  with  fresh  water.  A  few  raisins  added  to  cran- 
berries make  a  pleasant  combination. 

Cranberry  Sauce  No.  2. — -Take  3  cups  water,  1  lb.  of  raisins,  and  2  quarts  of 
cranberries;  boil  until  soft  enough  to  sift  easily;  pass  it  through  a  sieve,  add  2 
cups  sugar,  and  boil  10  minutes.  If  some  of  it  is  desired  for  immediate  use  pour 
it  into  a  mold;  can  the  remainder  for  future  use.  Or  they  can  be  cooked  together, 
sweetened,  and  set  aside  to  cool  without  being  put  through  the  sieve. 

Date  Sauce. — Prepare  dates  for  cooking  as  directed  under  "Cake."  (1)  Pare, 
core  and  quarter  apples,  and  stew  until  nearly  done;  then  add  an  equal  quantity 
of  dates  and  stew  until  tender,  but  no  longer;  sweeten  to  taste.  (2)  Another  way 
is  to  pare  and  core  apples,  without  quartering  them,  fill  the  center  of  each  apple 
with  dates,  pour  on  a  little  hot  water,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  the  dish 
in  which  they  are  to  be  served;  then  cover  with  a  meringue  and  brown  slightly 
in  the  oven. 

Dried  Berries,  Stewed. — To  stew  dried  berries  take  about  1  quart  of  water  to 
1  pint  of  berries,  and  boil  slowly  and  steadily  %  hour.  Sweeten  to  taste.  The 
various  dried  berries  are  cooked  alike.  Raspberries  and  blackberries  mixed  are 
nice,  using  the  same  amount  of  each. 

Fig  Sauce. — Scald  and  wash  ~%  lb.  of  nice  figs;  take  every  seed  from  3^  lb.  of 
raisins,  tearing  them  in  2  pieces  as  you  seed  them;  cut  the  figs  in  very  small 
39 


306  FRUITS. 

pieces  and  mis  with  the  raisins;  add  water  enough  to  cover  them,  and  steam  1 
hour  in  a  pudding  dish.  It  makes  a  delicious  sauce  for  tea,  or  dessert  for  dinner. 
Gooseberry  Fool. — Take  off  the  tops  and  stalks  from  1  lb.  of  gooseberries  and 
stew  them  with  %  CUP  sugar  in  %.  CUP  water;  then  pulp  through  a  sieve.  Whip 
2  cups  cream  and  beat  into  the  pulp. 

Gooseberry  Trifle. — Put  1  quart  of  gooseberries  with  1  lb.  of  sugar  in  a  kettle 
and  boil  until  reduced  to  a  pulp.  When  cold,  place  in  a  dish,  pour  over  it  1  quart 
boiled  custard,  and  cover  with  whipped  cream. 

Lemon  Butter. — Take  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  1,  2  cups 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  4  eggs;  beat  all  well  together,  place  over  the 
fire,  and  stir  until  the  consistency  of  honey. 

Lemon  Jelly. — Mix  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  and  1  grated  lemon;  boil  until  thick. 
Peaches,  to  Skin. — If  peaches  are  dipped  in  boiling  hot  water  for  an  instant 
the  skins  will  rapidly  slip  off,  saving  labor  in  paring  them. 

Baked  Peaches. — Choose  those  which  are  ripe,  or  nearly  so,  put  them  in  a  deep 
earthen  dish,  sprinkle  on  sugar,  and  bake  until  done,  keeping  them  covered. 

Peach  Butter. — (1)  Take  1  gallon  of  sweet  cider  and  boil  it  down  one-half, 
into  this  put  soft  peaches,  pared  and  cut  into  pieces,  and  boil,  with  frequent 
stirring,  until  they  are  reduced  to  a  pulp;  just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add 
sugar,  if  it  is  not  sweet  enough,  and  cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Keep  in  tightly 
covered  jars.  (2)  Take  ripe  peaches,  pare  and  stone  them,  and  put  in  a  kettle; 
add  a  little  water  and  boil  them  soft,  and  then  pass  through  a  colander.  Then 
add  134  cups  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  peaches,  and  boil  slowly  1  hour,  stirring 
often;  do  not  let  them  burn.    Keep  in  a  cool  place  in  stone  or  glass  jars. 

Fried  Peaches. — Take  ripe,  freestone  peaches,  cut  them  in  two,  remove  the 
stones,  and  at  once  drop  each  half,  the  cut  side  down,  into  a  frying-pan  containing 
about  %  inch  of  smoking  hot  fat;  as  soon  as  they  are  a  light  brown,  turn  them 
over  and  do  the  other  side;  as  soon  as  heated  through,  transfer  them  to  a  hot 
platter.  Serve  them  hot,  the  hollow  side  up,  sprinkling  on  a  little  pulverized 
sugar. 

Baked  Pears. — (1)  Choose  good  ripe  pears,  pare  and  halve  them,  but  do  not 
take  out  the  seeds;  put  them  in  a  stone  jar  in  layers,  sprinkling  sugar  on  each 
layer,  and  add  a  few  pinches  of  nutmeg  to  flavor.  To  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing add  1  cup  water,  cover  closely,  and  bake  3  hours  in  a  moderate  oven;  leave 
them  in  the  oven  over  night,  unopened.  Before  using  them  place  for  a  few  hours 
on  ice;  then  turn  into  a  dish.  Serve  with  cream.  (2)  Hard  pears  or  "windfalls" 
can  be  pared,  quartered  and  cored,  and  put  into  a  deep  pudding  dish;  add  1  cup 
water  and  1  cup  sugar  for  each  2  quarts  of  pears;  cover  closely,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven — it  will  take  several  hours.  They  will  keep  then  indefinitely,  if 
sealed  in  Mason  jars  as  soon  as  they  are  done,  and  while  still  hot.  Fruit  that  is 
often  left  on  the  ground  to  waste,  may  be  saved  thus  and  made  useful. 

Chipped  Pears. — Take  pears  not  quite  ripe;  pare  and  core  them,  and  cut  into 
long,  thin  strips;  to  8  lbs.  of  the  fruit  add  6  lbs.  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  3  lemons 
and  the  rind  cut  into  strips,  2  cups  of  water  and  2  tablespoons  of  ginger;  boil  the 
whole  until  the  fruit  is  transparent,  and  then  bottle. 

Plum  Charlotte. — Take  1  quart  of  ripe  plums,  stone,  stew,  and  then  sweeten 

them;  place  slices  of  bread  and  butter  in  the  bottom  and  around  the  sides  of  a 

large  bowl  or  deep  dish,  and  pour  in  the  plums,  boiling  hot;  cover  the  bowl  and 

set  it  away  to  cool  gradually.    Send  it  to  the  table  cold,  and  eat  with  cream. 

Damson  Sauce. — Take  6  lbs.  ripe  damsons,  1  quart  cider  vinegar,  1%  lbs.  sugar  j 


FRUITS.  307 

boil  until  the  damsons  are  soft,  then  take  them  out,  mash  them,  put  back  into 
the  syrup  and  boil  from  %  to  %  hour,  stirring  them  and  watching  that  they  do 
not  stick  to  the  kettle  or  burn. 

Prune  Sauce.— (1)  Soak  the  prunes  over  night;  in  the  morning  boil  until  they 
will  slip  from  the  stones  easily;  when  used,  slip  them  from  the  stones  and  serve 
with  thick  cream.  (2)  To  1  lb.  prunes  when  put  on  to  stew,  add  the  juice. and 
thin  yellow  rind  of  an  orange;  when  done  (when  the  stones  are  loose)  sweeten 
with  plenty  of  sugar.  This  sauce  is  excellent  with  rabbit,  roast  pig,  kid,  venison 
or  fawn. 

Stewed  Primes. — Select  good  prunes,  wash  them,  and  let  soak  1  or  2  hours  if 
dry  and  hard;  then  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and  boil  until 
tender  and  swollen;  then  for  each  quart  of  prunes  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and 
boil  a  little  more,  but  not  long  enough  to  break  the  skins.  A  little  lemon  juice 
may  be  added  if  they  are  deficient  in  flavor. 

Baked  Quinces.  —Choose  ripe  quinces,  wash  and  core  them,  fill  the  cavities 
with  sugar,  put  in  a  baking-pan  with  a  little  water  and  bake  until  soft.  They 
are  very  fine  if  eaten  with  sugar  and  butter  when  hot. 

Stewed  Quinces. — Choose  good  quinces,  and  pare,  quarter  and  core  them;  add 

sufficient  water  to  %  cover  them,  cover  closely,  and  stew  until  tender;  for  each 

lb.  of  quinces  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  cover  closely,  and  cook  until  a  thick  syrup.    If 

%  as  many  apples  as  quinces  are  used  it  makes  a  nice  dish. 

The  Quince  is  a  native  of  India,  whence  it  was  introduced  to  Greece.  The  ancients  pre- 
served it  in  honey,  or  sweet  wine  reduced  M  by  boiling.  It  makes  a  fine  marmalade  and  a 
little  added  to  apple  pie  improves  the  flavor. 

Raisine. — Take  very  ripe  but  quite  sound  grapes,  squeeze  the  juice  from  them 
and  boil  until  it  is  reduced  a  half.  Peel  and  core  some  pears,  quarter  them,  put 
them  in  this  grape  syrup,  and  boil  till  it  is  reduced  a  third.  It  may  be  made 
with  unripe  grapes,  but  then  sugar  must  be  added,  allowing  34  lb.  to  each  pint  of 
grape  juice. 

Stewed  Rhubarb. — Peel  it,  cut  into  inch  pieces,  stew  it  until  soft,  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  If  very  sour,  it  can  be  allowed  to  first  stand  5  minutes  in  boiling  water, 
then  drain  it  out  and  put  it  in  fresh  water  to  stew.  This  extracts  part  of  its  acid, 
and  less  sugar  is  then  needed  to  sweeten  it.  Rhubarb  and  green  currants  mixed 
together,  stewed,  and  sweetened  to  taste,  make  a  pleasant  sauce. 

Rhubarb  Butter.— To  each  pound  of  rhubarb,  which  is  peeled  and  chopped, 
allow  2  cups  sugar;  let  them  simmer  together  until  it  is  done. 

Rhubarb  is  a  native  of  Asia,  and  its  introduction  to  Europe  is  of  quite  recent  date.  It 
belongs  to  the  buckwheat  order.  Although  it  cannot  be  eaten  raw,  when  cooked  it  is  much 
used  All  kinds  are  best  for  culinary  purposes  when  blanched.  The  stalks  are  sometimes 
partly  blanched  by  putting  a  headless  barrel  over  them  and  allowing  them  to  grow  up 
through  it.  Its  food  value  is  small,  not  \i  of  its  solid  matter  being  nutritive.  It  contains 
about  2  %  of  sugar,  which  is  its  chief  nutrient  element.  Its  sour  taste  is  due  t.o  the  pres- 
ence of  oxalic  acid,  of  which  it  contains  0.3$.  In  some  conditions  of  the  body,  rhubarb, 
sorrel,  and  other  plants  containing  oxalic  compounds,  are  best  avoided.  Oxalic  acid  is 
always  and  everywhere  an  irritant  poison,  but  the  amount  in  rhubarb  is  small. 

A  Hint.— If  equal  quantities  of  rhubarb  and  any  other  kind  of  fruit  are  mixed  together 
the  rhubarb  will  soon  taste  exactly  like  the  other  fruit. 

Tomato  Butter. — Scald  the  tomatoes,  remove  the  skins,  and  add  34  as  much 

pared,  cored  and  quartered  apples  as  there  are  tomatoes;  cook  slowly,  stirring 

often,  till  reduced  to  the  consistency   of  marmalade;  when  the  apples  begin  to 

break,  sweeten  to  taste  with  light  brown  sugar,  and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and 

1  teaspoon  ginger,  if  desired,  for  each  6  lbs.  of  the  fruit. 

COMPOTES. 

These  are  the  French  method  of  preparing  the  English  stewed  fruit.  Com- 
potes consist  of  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit,  partly  cooked  in  a  syrup  less  strong  than 
that  used  for  preserves  or  jam,  and  are  used  the  same  day  they  are  made.    If 


308  •  FRUITS. 

enough  sugar  is  allowed  they  will  keep  good  for  2  or  3  days,  in  a  cool  place.  If 
there  is  any  sign  of  mold  or  fermentation,  it  may  be  checked  on  its  iirst  appear- 
ance by  boiling  the  preparation  a  second  time  for  1  or  2  minutes.  They  are  more 
economical  and  wholesome  than  pastry,  and  superior  compotes  can  be  served  for 
dessert.  They  are  much  relished  by  persons  who  cannot  eat  raw  fruit.  They 
should  be  served  in  a  glass  dish  with  cake. 

The  essential  thing  to  remember  in  making  compotes  is  that  the  fruit  should 
not  be  cooked  as  thoroughly  as  when  it  is  to  be  served  as  stewed  fruit;  it  must 
not  cook  enough  to  lose  either  its  form  or  color.  After  the  fruit  has  simmered 
in  the  syrup,  lift  it  out  with  a  skimmer,  arrange  it  in  a  glass  dish  (called  a  com- 
potier)  boil  the  syrup  a  little,  let  it  cool,  and  pour  it  over,  straining  it  if  it  needs 
it.  If  an  insufficient  amount  of  sugar  is  used  the  syrup  will  not  be  clear  and 
bright. 

Syrup  for  Compotes. — A  good  rule  is  to  allow  3  cups  of  water  for  each  lb.  of 
sugar;  boil  it  15  minutes,  removing  the  scum  carefully  as  it  rises;  the  syrup  is 
then  ready  for  use.  Articles  boiled  in  this  will  not  keep  long,  it  being  suited 
only  for  dishes  intended  to  be  eaten  immediately;  more  sugar  must  be  added  for 
syrup  intended  to  keep.  Also  the  kind  of  fruit  and  its  ripeness  will  affect  the 
amount  of  sugar  needed. 

Compote  of  Apples. — Select  moderate  sized  apples;  either  pare,  halve,  and  core 
them,  or  cook  them  whole  if  preferred;  then  add  prepared  syrup  and  let  them  sim- 
mer until  tender,  adding  a  little  lemon  juice;  lift  out  apples  and  boil  syrup  a  little 
to  thicken  it;  cool  it,  and  pour  it  over  the  apples.  Garnish  it  with  strips  of  green 
angelica,  candied  citron,  or  a  border  of  rice  jelly  or  plain  boiled  rice,  or  put  a 
slice  of  lemon  on  each  apple. 

Pears,  Peaches,  and  other  fruit  may  be  prepared  the  same  way,  but  it  is  best 
to  stone  peaches. 

Oranges  should  be  peeled  and  divided  into  sections  without  breaking  the  thin 
skin;  then  treat  them  as  directed  for  apples. 

Banana  Compote. — Peel  and  slice  the  bananas  and  place  them  in  a  dish  (alter- 
nate layers  of  red  and  white  bananas  look  nice),  pour  over  them  the  hot  syrup  for 
compotes,  let  stand  till  cold,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Compote  of  Figs. — Dissolve  34  lb.  of  loaf  sugar  in  2  cups  of  water;  add  1  lb.  of 
dried  figs,  a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  and  stew  all  very  gently  for  2  hours.  Have 
some  sponge  cake  ready,  cut  into  squares;  lay  a  stewed  fig  on  each  square,  add  a 
little  lemon  juice  to  the  syrup,  which  should  be  pretty  thick,  and  pour  it  over  the 
figs.  Serve  when  cold  with  thick  cream  or  whipped  cream.  It  makes  a  dainty, 
cheap  and  wholesome  dessert. 

A  Compote  of  Creen  Figs  can  be  made  with  1%  pints  of  green  figs  and  1  pint 
of  the  prepared  syrup,  and  proceed  as  directed  for  a  compote  of  apples. 

Gooseberry  Compote. — Gooseberries  for  compote  should  not  be  very  ripe;  top 
and  tail  them,  pour  on  some  boiling  water,  then  take  them  out  and  plunge  them 
into  cold  water  containing  a  little  vinegar,  which  will  assist  in  keeping  the  color 
good;  then  drain  them,  put  them  into  the  syrup,  and  proceed  as  directed  for 
apples,  being  careful  not  to  break  their  skins. 


JAMS,  JELLIES,    MARMALADES,  AND 
PRESERVES. 

These  include  all  those  preparations  of  fresh  fruit  made  with  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  sugar  to  prevent  fermentation,  without  the  process  of  sealing  them 
in  cans  or  bottles  while  hot.  They  have  been  used  from  time  immemorial  under 
the  name  of  sweetmeats  or  preserves.  A  goodly  array  of  preserves  and  jellies  in 
her  store-closet  will  fill  the  heart  of  the  thorough  housewife  with  great  satisfac- 
tion, and  although  it  is  some  work  to  m'ake  them  she  will  know  that  they  are 
pure  and  healthful,  while  often  there  is  much  uncertainty  about  those  bought  at 
the  stores. 

GENERAL    SUGGESTIONS. 

The  Fruit. — Fruit  intended  for  preservation  should  be  gathered  in  dry  weather, 
and,  if  possible,  while  the  morning  sun  is  on  it;  it  will  then  have  its  finest  flavor, 
and  will  keep  better  than  when  gathered  at  any  other  time.  It  should  be  used 
as  soon  as  possible  after  it  is  gathered;  if  kept  a  short  time,  put  it  in  a  refrigerator 
or  ice-house — in  the  latter  it  will  keep  fresh  and  plump  for  several  days.  Fruit 
that  is  dusty  is  not  injured  by  being  rinsed  quickly  in  and  out  of  cold  water,  but 
if  gathered  during  or  immediately  after  a  rain  the  juice  will  be  less  rich  and  less 
full  of  flavor;  if  gathered  in  damp  or  foggy  weather  it  will  soon  mildew,  and  so 
will  be  worthless  unless  used  immediately,  and  boiled  very  thoroughly,  when  it 
can  be  made  into  jams  or  preserves  that  will  keep,  but  they  will  be  of  inferior 
quality  and  doubtful  wholesomeness.  There  is  no  greater  mistake  than  to 
imagine  that  half -ripe  or  over-ripe  fruit  is  good  enough  for  preserves.  The  fruit 
should  be  free  from  dust,  and  any  which  is  unsound  should  be  cast  aside.  What- 
ever fruit  has  been  boiled  should  be  finished  up  the  same  day,  and  never  any  kept 
over  night.  Quinces,  pears,  apples,  etc.,  can  be  kept  from  turning  dark  by  put- 
ting them  in  cold  water  as  soon  as  pared,  but  it  is  better  to  cook  them  as  soon  as 
possible. 

The  Sugar. — The  best  quality  of  sugar  either  white  or  brown  will  be  found 
the  cheapest  in  the  end.  For  the  more  delicate  kinds  of  preserves  only  the  best 
sugar  should  be  used.  Jelly  made  from  a  bluish  white  sugar  will  not  harden  well. 
An  inferior  quality  of  sugar  is  sometimes  used  for  preserves  or  canned  fruit,  but 
when  that  is  used  they  will  spoil  more  easily,  and  will  not  look  as  well.  If  too 
little  sugar  is  used  the  mixture  will  not  keep,  and  it  is  false  economy  to  try  it. 
If  too  much  sugar  is  used,  on  the  other  hand,  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  will  be  lost. 
Coarse  brown  sugar  conceals  the  flavor  of  the  fruit,  and  moist  sugar  lacks 
sweetening  power. 

The  water  used  for  melting  sugar  should  be  pure,  clear  and  entirely  free  from 
sediment,  as  any  cloudiness  will  impair  the  clearness  of  the  product,  and  in  clear 
jellies  this  is  objectionable. 

The  Utensils  Used. — The  best  vessels  to  use  in  cooking  fruits  for  preserves  or 
canning  are  aluminum,  porcelain-lined  kettles  or  yellow  ware  dishes.  Never  use 
tin  vessels,  as  the  acid  of  the  fruit  acts  on  the  tin  and  the  poisonous  acetate  of 
lead  is  formed.  To  cook  the  fruit  equally  throughout,  the  vessel  should  be  rather 
large  in  diameter  and  not  too  deep;  if  too  much  heaped  the  fruit  will  not  cook 
evenly.  Close  fitting  covers  should  be  provided,  and  put  on  after  the  scum  has 
done  rising,  so  as  to  retain  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  with  the  steam.  Wire  sieves 
and  iron  pots  destroy  the  flavor  and  should  not  be  used.  Copper  or  brass  kettles 
should  be  scoured  very  bright  with  salt  and  vinegar  before  being  used,  and  the 
fruit  removed  at  once  on  taking  it  from  the  fire,  but  even  then  some  of  the  poison- 
ous verdigris  will  be  formed  by  the  action  of  the  acids  on  the  mental.  Porcelain 
lined  vessels  are  much  better.  Aluminum  vessels  are  excellent  to  use,  because 
the  citric,  malic  and  other  acids  found  in  fruits  do  not  affect  that  metal. 

Fruit  should  be  stirred  with  either  an  aluminum,  silver  or  wooden  spoon — the 
latter  is  best.    Iron,  tin  or  pewter  ones  will  spoil  the  color. 

(309) 


ato        Jams,  jellies,  marmalades  and  preserves. 

The  Principles  Involved.— Although  the  sugar  passes  easily  into  the  state  of  fermen- 
tation, and  is  in  fact  the  only  substance  capable  of  undergoing  the  vinous  stage  of  that 
process,  it  will  not  ferment  at  all  if  the  quantity  be  sufficient  to  constitute  a  very  strong 
syrup;  hence  syrups  are  used  to  preserve  fruits  and  other  vegetable  substances  from  the 
changes  they  would  undergo  if  left  to  themselves.  Before  sugar  was  in  use  honey  was  em- 
ployed in  preserving,  but  it  is  now  replaced  by  sugar.  In  putting  up  juice  or  fruit,  the 
object  is  to  boil  it  with  sugar  to  such  a  consistency  that  it  will  neither  ferment  nor 
mildew. 

In  boiling  most  fruits,  it  is  best  to  boil  them  in  water  first,  and  add  the  sugar  when  the 
fruit  has  become  soft  and  the  juice  is  drawn  out.  The  first  object  in  preserving  fruit  is  to 
soften  it  by  boiling  in  water,  so  that  the  sugar  by  which  it  is  preserved  may  penetrate  all 
through  it,  and  so  preserve  it  well.  The  more  thoroughly  the  skimming  is  done  the  clearer 
the  preserves  will  be. 

Fruit  jellies  owe  their  jelly-like  consistency  to  the  presence  of  a  sort  of  gum-like  sub- 
stance which  they  contain  called  pectose,  or  pectic  acid.  This  substance,  although  soluble 
in  fruit  juice,  when  mixed  with  sugar,  exposed  to  heat,  and  cooled,  will  coagulate.  Although 
in  appearance  so  much  resembling  gelatine,  from  a  chemical  standpoint  it  is  entirely  dif- 
ferent, being  nearly  allied  togum,  but  it  has  about  the  same  food  value  as  the  sugar  with 
which  it  is  mixed.  The  pectose  does  not  develop  in  fruit  until  it  begins  to  ripen,  but  as 
soon  as  the  fruit  is  over-ripe  it  loses  its  gelatinizing  property.  For  jellies,  therefore,  fruit 
should  be  gathered  as  stomas  fully  ripe,  or  just  a  little  before.  Over-cooking  jelly  also 
destroys  the  gelatinizing  properties  of  the  pectose. 

The  chemical  composition  of  the  various  preserves  is  simply  the  composition  of  the  fruit 
juice  and  fruit  itself,  with  the  loss  of  a  few  volatile  constituents,  and  the  addition  of  cane 
sugar. 

Home-made  preserves,  jams,  etc.,  when  properly  prepared  and  well  made,  are  much  supe- 
rior to  those  which  are  sold  in  the  market.  Professor  Sharpless  says  that  "apple  sauce  is 
frequently  pumpkin  boiled  with  cider;  that  raspberry  jam  offered  for  sale  is  often  sour, 
and  that  strawberry  jam  is  frequently  made  from  the  refuse  strawberries  of  the  market." 

Putting  in  Jars  and  Keeping. — Put  jellies,  jams,  and  marmalades  in  small 
glasses,  which  will  prevent  the  frequent  opening  necessary  with  large  ones.  The 
usual  method  has  been  to  lay  on  top  a  piece  of  paper  dipped  in  brandy  or  alcohol 
and  cut  to  fit  nicely,  and  then  paint  a  larger  piece  with  white  of  egg  and  tie  it  on 
over  the  other — some  people  tie  on  parchment.  A  much  simpler  and  easier 
method  for  jellies  is  when  they  get  cold  to  pour  on  melted  parafine.  It  hardens 
almost  immediately,  and  then  a  piece  of  brown  paper  can  be  tied  on  to  keep  out 
the  dust.  The  parafine  will  lift  off  easily,  and  it  can  be  washed,  kept,  and  used 
again  by  remelting. 

If  any  of  the  preparations  become  candied,  set  the  glasses  in  water  and  let  it 
boil  around  them,  which  will  remedy  it.  If  jellies  are  put  in  wine  bottles  for 
exportation,  put  1  tablespoon  of  alcohol  in  each  bottle  before  sealing.  Look  over 
jellies  the  last  of  the  summer,  and  reboil  them  if  there  are  any  indications  of  fer- 
mentation. 

The  glasses  or  jars  into  which  jams,  preserves,  etc.,  are  put,  should  be  per- 
fectly dry,  and  the  closet  in  which  they  are  stored  should  be  neither  so  warm 
that  they  ferment,  nor  so  damp  that  they  become  moldy. 

Preventing  Mold. — Jellies  can  be  kept  from  molding  by  covering  the  top,  when 
cool,  with  pulverized  sugar,  melted  parafine,  or  oil,  like  salad  or  cotton-seed. 

Mold.— Remember  that  mold  is  a  low  form  of  life  (it  is  a  plant)  and  a  certain  amount  of 
moisture  is  necessary  to  its  growth.  Its  seeds  are  so  small  that  they  penetrate  the  tiniest 
crack,  and  the  mold  spreads  readily  from  one  thing  to  another.  If  specks  of  mold  appear, 
the  plant  can  be  killed  by  putting  the  jars  in  a  well-heated  oven,  or  by  putting  them  in  a 
pan  of  water  and  letting  it  boil  around  them.  Its  presence  is  always  an  injury,  detracting 
from  both  the  wholesomeness  and  flavor  of  the  article  it  attacks. 

Keep  jellies,  jams,  etc.,  in  a  dark,  cool,  dry  closet.  Paste  on  the  side  of  each 
glass  a  little  strip  of  paper  bearing  the  name  of  its  contents.  If  glass  jars  are 
used  for  preserves,  wrap  2  or  3  thicknesses  of  paper  around  each  one,  which  will 
exclude  the  light  and  keep  them  from  bleaching. 

Coloring. — The  only  coloring  suitable  for  any  fruit  preparation  is  some  veget- 
able color,  like  those  we  give  for  "  Prostings,"  but  they  should  be  used  sparingly. 


JELLIES. 

These  are  made  with  clear  fruit  juice  and  sugar,  the  usual  rule  being  to  mix 
them  in  equal  proportions.  As,  owing  to  the  change  in  its  pectose,  fruit  will  not 
make  jelly  when  it  is  over-ripe,  it  should  be  gathered  for  this  purpose  just  as  it 
turns  ripe.    If  you  wish  clear,  firm  jelly,  do  not  make  it  in  damp  or  rainy  weather. 

When  a  sweet  fruit,  like  the  pear,  etc.,  is  used  in  making  jelly,  add  some  very 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES.  311 

sour  apple  juice — say  about  half;  or  for  strawberries  use  red  currant  juice.  Alone, 
the  sweet  fruits  do  not  make  good  jelly  because  they  lack  pectose — the  substance 
which  causes  fruit  juice  to  jelly.  Gelatine  is  sometimes  added  with  cherries  and 
some  other  fruits;  allow  a  package  to  each  %  gallon  of  juice  when  it  is  used. 
Grapes  are  unreliable.  Crab-apples  jelly  readily.  Combining  2  fruits,  like  % 
currants  to  %  raspberries,  improves  the  flavor  of  jams  and  jellies.  Another 
excellent  combination  for  jelly  is  %  apple  juice  to  %  peach  juice.  A  delightful 
jelly  is  made  from  swamp  huckleberries  or  low  blackberries.  Barberries,  cur- 
rants, apples,  grapes  and  quinces  all  jelly  well.  Damsons  make  an  excellent 
jelly. 

To  Make  Jelly. — In  making  jellies  cut  large  fruit  into  small  pieces;  add  water 
enough  to  prevent  the  fruit  from  burning — apples  and  quinces  need  just  enough 
to  cover  them,  and  currants  less;  cover  the  kettle  and  boil  slowly  until  the  fruit 
is  soft.  Then  put  both  fruit  and  juice  into  the  jelly  bag,  and  allow  it  to  drip, 
setting  it  in  a  warm  place.  Toward  the  last,  squeeze  the  bag  gently  with  the 
hand,  or  use  2  spoons,  but  do  not  be  too  anxious  to  squeeze  out  all  the  juice,  as 
the  more  you  squeeze  it  the  cloudier  you  will  make  the  jelly.*  Measure  the  juice, 
and  the  general  rule  is  to  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  but  quinces  need 
only  %  lb.  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  juice.  Now  put  the  juice  on  the  stove,  bring  it  to 
a  boil,  and  continue  to  boil  without  being  covered,  until  done — 20  minutes  being 
the  rule  for  most  fruits;  skim  frequently,  as  the  more  perfect  the  skimming  the 
clearer  the  jelly  will  be;  do  not  boil  it  too  hard.  Have  the  sugar  ready  heated 
(heat  it  in  the  oven  while  the  juice  is  boiling,  stirring  it  frequently  from  the  bot- 
tom), and  now  drop  it  into  the  boiling  juice,  stirring  constantly.  Let  it  just  come 
to  a  boil,  and  put  at  once  into  the  jelly  glasses;  or  another  plan  is  to  have  a  heated 
pitcher  ready,  with  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  wet  in  hot  water  spread  over  the  top. 
Pour  the  jelly,  a  dipperful  at  a  time,  through  this  strainer  into  the  pitcher,  and 
then  turn  it  from  the  pitcher  into  the  glasses,  and  set  away  to  cool.  The  jelly 
glasses  can  be  standing  ready  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  take  them  out,  drain,  and 
turn  in  the  jelly. 

In  making  jelly  it  should  boil  neither  too  long  nor  too  short  a  time;  if  it  boils 
too  long  it  will  be  discolored  and  its  flavor  injured;  if  insufficiently  boiled  it  will 
not  keep  well.  The  longer  it  boils  the  darker  it  becomes.  If  the  juice  is  very 
watery,  and  the  effort  is  made  to  evaporate  the  water  by  long  boiling,  the  gela- 
tinizing property  is  destroyed,  and  it  becomes  gummy  and  will  not  jelly. 

To  Test  Jelly. — There  are  various  ways:  (1)  Drop  a  little  into  cold  water  or 
on  a  cold  plate,  stirring  it  for  a  few  seconds,  and  if  it  coagulates  it  is  done;  or  (2) 
let  1  or  2  drops  fall  from  the  skimmer  into  a  glass  of  cold  water;  if  it  reaches  the 
bottom  a  solid  drop  of  jelly,  without  dissolving  in  the  water,  it  is  done;  or  (3)  dip 
the  skimmer  in  and  out,  holding  it  sideways  over  the  jelly;  if  it  runs  off  in  only 
one  place  it  is  not  cooked  enough;  if  it  runs  around  the  skimmer  and  drips  off  in 
2  or  3  places  in  wide  thick  drops,  it  is  done. 

Hardening  Jelly.-  Jelly  which  is  not  quite  as  firm  as  desired  can  be  shrunk 
by  setting  the  glasses  in  the  sun. 

To  prevent  breaking  the  glasses  when  pouring  in  the  hot  jelly,  several  plans  are 
in  use.  One  plan  is  to  rub  the  glass  over  on  the  outside  with  lard  or  butter,  and 
then  pour  in  the  first  1  or  2  spoonfuls  slowly.  Another  is  to  stand  the  glasses 
while  being  filled  on  a  folded  towel  wet  with  cold  water.  Another  plan  is  to  put 
a  silver  spoon  in  the  jar;  but  the  folded  towel  is  the  best  plan. 

Jelly  bags  should  be  made  of  white  flannel,  and  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  to 
prevent  their  absorbing  too  much  of  the  juice.  Tie  the  top  of  the  bag  closely 
when  the  liquor  is  all  in,  to  prevent  the  flavor  from  evaporating.  A  wooden  frame 
on  which  to  tie  the  jelly-bag  while  it  is  dripping,  is  a  convenience.  Use  the  bags 
for  nothing  but  making  jelly. 

Waste  nothing  when  making  jellies;  the  pulp  can  be  put  up  as  marmalade 
for  tarts  and  cake  fillings. 

To  remove  jelly  from  a  glass,  dip  it  into  hot  water  for  an  instant;  then  take 
it  out,  and  the  jelly  will  come  out  easily  and  whole. 


*Note.— Squeezing  all  the  juice  out  of  the  hag  makes  the  jelly  cloudy;  if  it  is  not  squeezed 
much  of  the  contents  of  the  baj?  are  often  wasted.  To  prevent  the  waste  some  housewives 
use  the  juice  which  will  drip  through  without  squeezing,  and  make  a  clear  jelly  for  table 
use.  The  balance  they  squeeze  out,  and  with  it  they  make  a  second  quality  of  jelly  to  use 
for  cake,  puddings,  sauces,  etc.    It  is  good,  hut  not  so  clear. 


312  JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES. 

The  prevention  of  mold,  keeping  jellies,  etc.,  are  discussed  in  the  preceding 
"General  Suggestions"  (which  see). 

Apple  Jelly. — Use  good,  sour  apples;  slice  them  thin,  seeds,  skins  and  all;  let 
them  simmer  with  only  the  addition  of  a  little  water,  until  well  cooked  and  soft; 
strain,  add  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  and  finish  as  directed  previously  for 
making  jelly.     If  desired,  a  little  lemon  flavor  can  be  added. 

Plum  and  Apple  Jelly  can  be  made  by  using  1  part  plum  juice  to  2  parts  sour 
apple  juice,  and  finishing  like  other  jelly.    It  is  very  good. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. — Cut  them  into  pieces,  but  do  not  pare  or  remove  the  seeds; 
boil  until  soft  in  a  jar  set  in  hot  water,  adding  barely  water  enough  to  cover  them; 
mash  them,  drain  off  the  juice  without  squeezing;  use  1  lb.  sugar  for  each  pint  of 
juice,  and  finish  as  before  directed.  A  little  lemon  juice  can  be  added  for  flavor 
if  desired;  or  a  little  stick  cinnamon  boiled  with  the  juice  and  taken  out  before 
putting  in  the  sugar,  is  good. 

The  pulp  and  juice  which  remain  can  be  made  into  marmalade.  Add  more 
water  and  cook  to  a  pulp;  strain  through  a  sieve  to  remove  skin,  cores  and  seeds. 
Add  brown  sugar  to  the  pulp,  pound  for  pound.  It  needs  careful  watching  and 
stirring  to  prevent  burning. 

Dried  Apple  Jelly. — Boil  the  dried  apples  until  tender,  strain  through  the 
jelly-bag,  and  allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  the  pint  of  juice;  adding  a  little  lemon  juice 
will  improve  the  flavor;  then  finish  like  other  jellies. 

Blackberry  Jelly. — Choose  berries  which  are  under  rather  than  over  ripe;  the 
wild  berries  are  best.  Cook  till  soft,  adding  very  little  water;  strain  through  the 
jelly  bag,  and  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.    Finish  like  other  jellies. 

Raspberry  and  Strawberry  Jellies  are  made  just  the  same  way. 

Cherry  Jelly. — Pick  the  fruit  (Morellos  are  best)  when  not  quite  ripe;  wash 
and  put  on  the  stove  in  cold  water  ivitli  the  p>its  in;  let  it  simmer  (not  boil)  until 
the  cherries  are  white  and  tender;  strain  through  the  jelly  bag,  allow  1  pint  sugar 
to  2  pints  juice,  and  cook  briskly  until  done.  Cooks  sometimes  add  %  part  of  red 
currant  juice,  but  cherry  jelly  can  be  made  without  it.  Leave  the  pits  in  because 
a  large  part  of  the  pectose  is  in  the  pits. 

Cranberry  Jelly. — Pick  over  the  cranberries  carefully,  and  put  2  cups  water 
in  2  quarts  of  cranberries;  let  boil,  stirring  occasionally,  until  soft  enough  to 
mash;  strain,  and  finish  like  other  jellies.    Use  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  juice. 

Red  Currant  Jelly. — Choose  good,  ripe  currants;  pick  them  over,  but  do  not 
stem  them;  wash,  drain  and  mash  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  it  will  darken  the 
jelly  to  heat  them  now;  use  a  wooden  masher;  drain  over  night  in  the  jelly  bag, 
but  do  not  squeeze  it.  Use  1  pint  sugar  to  1  pint  juice;  boil  and  finish  as  directed 
for  jellies.  After  putting  in  the  hot  sugar,  let  it  boil  till  it  thickens  when  exposed 
to  the  air  on  the  spoon  (which  will  be  in  3  to  5  minutes)  and  then  put  it  into  the 
glasses  immediately.  A  second  grade  of  jelly,  not  so  clear,  can  be  made  by 
squeezing  the  remaining  juice  out  of  the  currants,  and  finishing  it  like  jelly. 

Various  Jellies. — A  very  nice  jelly  is  made  by  using  red  and  white  currants  in 
equal  parts.  A  raspberry  and  currant  jelly  can  be  made  by  using  1  part  red 
currants  and  2  parts  red  raspberries.  It  is  very  fine.  A  tvild  cherry  and  currant 
jelly  can  be  made  by  stewing  2  parts  wild  cherries  (stones  and  all)  and  1  part  red 
currants.     White  currant  jelly  can  also  be  made  like  other  currant  jellies. 

Gooseberry  Jelly. — Take  full-grown,  but  not  quite  ripe  gooseberries;  cover 
with  water  and  boil  until  they  are  soft;  strain  the  juice,  and  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to 
each  pint  of  juice;  finish  like  other  jelly. 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES.  313 

Grape  Jelly. — Isabella,  Concord  or  Clinton  grapes  are  best  to  use;  have  them 
freshly  picked,  and  finish  as  directed  for  other  jellies,  using  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  pint 
of  juice. 

Green  Grape  Jelly.— Use  green  grapes;  wash,  stem,  and  cook  till  soft  with  a 
very  little  water;  mash  with  a  wooden  pestle,  strain  through  the  jelly  bag,  and 
allow  \%  lbs.  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Finish  like  other  jelly.  It  makes  the 
nicest  jelly  there  is  to  go  with  poultry  and  game,  and  is  superior  to  ripe  grape 
jelly. 

Peach  Jelly. — Use  1  part  very  sour  apple  juice  to  2  parts  peach  juice,  and 
make  like  other  jellies.  Equal  parts  are  sometimes  used.  A  little  lemon  juice  is 
sometimes  added. 

Pear  Jelly  can  be  made  the  same  as  peach  jelly. 

Plum  Jelly. — Choose  the  common  blue. plums,  wash  them,  cook  until  soft  in  a 
porcelain  kettle,  adding  1  cup  water  to  each  2  quarts  of  plums;  then  drain  through 
the  jelly  bag,  and  finish  like  other  jellies. 

Damson  Jelly  is  made  the  same  way. 

Quince  Jelly.— Cut  the  quinces  into  small  pieces,  and  put  them,  skin,  seeds 
and  all,  into  a  preserving  kettle  (a  large  part  of  the  pectose  is  found  in  the  seeds); 
cover  with  water  and  boil  till  soft;  mash,  and  drain  in  the  jelly  bag  over  night; 
allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  and  boil  to  the  jelly  degree.  The  pulp  of 
the  quinces,  left  after  making  the  jelly,  can  be  rubbed  through  a  fine  colander, 
and,  using  as  much  sugar  as  pulp,  boil  them  together  for  marmalade.  Another 
plan  is  to  use  the  best  portions  of  the  fruit  for  canning  or  preserves,  and  make 
jelly  with  the  hard  parts,  cores  and  skin,  and  this  works  well.  Sour  apple  juice 
is  sometimes  mixed  with  quince  juice. 

Rhubarb  Jelly. — Cut  the  rhubarb  into  pieces  about  1  inch  long,  but  do  not 
peel  it;  cook  it  to  a  soft  pulp  in  water  enough  to  cover  it;  strain  through  the  jelly 
bag,  and  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice;  finish  like  other  jelly.  Apple  and 
rhubarb  mixed  together,  and  finished  like  other  jellies,  is  very  nice;  flavor  it  with 
lemon. 

Wild-Plum  Jelly. — Gather  wild  plums  just  before  they  ripen;  use  7  pints  of 
water  to  5  pints  of  plums,  and  boil  until  they  fall  to  pieces;  then  strain  through 
the  jelly  bag;  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  and  boil  rapidly  to  the  jelly 
degree.  They  make  very  nice  jelly.  Some  cooks  boil  the  plums  with  water  until 
they  burst,  and  then  throw  it  away  because  of  its  bitterness;  then  boil  the  plums 
again  in  water  to  cover  them  until  they  fall  to  pieces;  then  finish  as  above.  The 
pulp  remaining  can  be  made  into  a  good  marmalade  by  using  the  pulp  and  sugar 
pound  for  pound. 

Tutti  Frutti  Jelly. — Use  equal  quantities  of  red  currants,  red  raspberries, 
strawberries  and  morello  cherries;  stone  the  latter  carefully  saving  all  juice;  mix 
together  all  the  fruit  and  squeeze  it  well;  after  straining  through  the  jelly  bag, 
allow  2  lbs.  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice,  and  finish  like  other  jelly. 


MARMALADES. 

These  are  made  from  the  pulp  of  fruit  boiled  with  sugar.  If  marmalade  is 
made  at  the  same  time  with  jelly,  the  pulp  left  from  the  jelly  can  be  used  and 
waste  prevented.  Rub  the  pulp  through  a  sieve,  and  for  acid  fruits  the  rule  is  to 
allow  equal  weights  of  sugar  and  pulp;  sweet  fruits  need  a  little  less.  If  too 
much  sugar  is  used  the  sides  and  tops  of  the  vessels  containing  the  marmalade 


314  JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES. 

will  be  covered  with  a  coating  of  sugar,  and  it  will  candy  or  crystallize;  fermenta- 
tion will  take  place  if  too  little  sugar  is  used,  or  the  boiling  is  insufficient.  The 
rule  is  to  boil  slowly  %  to  %  hour,  with  frequent  stirring  to  prevent  burning. 

To  test  both  marmalade  and  jam  let  a  spoonful  of  it  cool  on  a  plate;  it  will  be 
done  if  it  looks  glittering  and  dry,  and  neither  moisture  nor  juice  collects  on  it. 

If  the  sugar  is  not  added  until  the  fruit  is  mashed  and  cooked,  less  boiling 
will  be  needed,  and  the  marmalade  will  be  better  and  smoother.  When  done, 
put  it  in  glasses  as  explained  in  the  preceeding  "General  Suggestions."  Keep  in 
a  cool,  dry  place. 

The  term  marmalade  is  derived  from  the  Portuguese  marmelo,  meaning  a 
quince,  to  which  it  was  first  applied;  but  it  has  come  to  be  applied  to  similar 
preparations  of  any  fruit.  Marmalades  are  very  wholesome,  and  serve  to  stimulate 
the  appetite. 

Grape  Marmalade. — Pulp  the  grapes,  but  put  the  skins  and  pulp  together  into 
the  preserving  kettle  and  let  boil.  When  the  skins  are  tender  let  cool  until  you 
can  work  the  mass  through  a  fine  colander.  Wash  the  kettle  and  return  the 
strained  grapes,  set  over  the  fire,  and  add  the  same  measure  of  sugar  as  there  is 
of  the  grape.  Let  boil  5  minutes  and  put  hot  into  jelly  tumblers.  If  the  grapes 
are  not  quite  ripe  the  marmalade  will  be  more  firm. 

Orange  Marmalade. — Pare  the  yellow  rind  carefully  off  of  the  oranges;  remove 
the  thick  white  rind  and  squeeze  the  pulp  through  a  sieve;  add  1  gill  of  water  to 
4  lbs.  fruit,  and  set  on  to  boil;  add  the  yellow  parings  of  the  rind,  cut  into  pieces, 
and  boil  %  hour,  or  until  the  rind  is  soft;  the  juice,  pulp  and  yellow  peel  of  a 
lemon  can  be  added  if  liked;  add  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  pulp,  boil  a  few  minutes  and 
put  into  jelly  glasses. 

Rhubarb  can  be  added  instead  of  the  lemon  if  desired;  use  1  quart  of  sliced 
rhubarb  for  6  oranges  and  boil  with  them.  It  makes  a  fine  combination  and  gives 
a  variety. 

Peach  Marmalade. — Choose  fine,  ripe  peaches;  pare,  stone  and  cut  them  up; 
add  a  very  little  water  and  cook  in  the  farina  boiler  until  reduced  to  a  pulp;  pass 
through  a  colander  and  allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  pulp;  put  it  on  the  stove 
and  boil  until  it  will  jelly,  or  until  it  will  drop  from  the  spoon  in  clots.  Stir  it 
from  the  bottom  with  a  wooden  spoon  all  the  time  it  is^  on  the  fire  to  prevent 
burning.    When  done,  seal  in  jars. 

Apricots,  Apples,  Pears,  Quinces,  and  other  fruits  can  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 

Plum  Marmalade. — Stone  the  plums,  and  put  in  the  kettle  with  a  very  little 
water,  boil  till  the  fruit  softens,  and  then  mash  to  a  pulp  with  a  wooden  pestle; 
do  not  take  it  from  the  stove,  but  add  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  pulp,  and  boil  15  or 
20  minutes  longer;  then  put  it  in  jars. 

Quince  Marmalade. — Pare,  core  and  slice  the  quinces;  put  the  seeds,  cores 
and  skins  in  the  kettle,  add  barely  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  slowly 
%  hour;  strain  through  cloth,  and  when  nearly  cold  add  it  to  the  quinces  in  the 
farina  boiler,  and  boil  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  smooth  paste,  mashing  and  stirring 
the  quinces  with  a  wooden  spoon;  if  the  flavor  is  desired  the  juice  of  2  oranges 
can  be  added  to  each  3  lbs.  of  pulp;  now  add  %  lb.  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit, 
and  boil  10  minutes  longer,  stirring  continually.     Then  put  in  jars. 

No.  2. — Quinces  which  are  not  good  enough  to  be  utilized  in  other  ways  can  be 
used;  wash,  core,  but  do  not  pare  them,  and  cut  into  pieces;  add  1  teacup  of  water 
to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  slowly,  mashing  and  stirring  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  soft;  add  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  pulp;  boil  them  together  for  5  or  10 min- 
utes, strain  through  a  colander  and  put  in  jelly  glasses. 

Sour  Apples  or  Crab  Apples  can  be  put  up  in  like  manner. 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES.  315 

Raspberry  Marmalade. — Either  use  the  raspberries  alone,  or  add  1  cup  of  red 
currant  juice  to  each  2  lbs.  fruit;  boil  30  minutes,  mashing  and  stirring  well  with 
a  wooden  spoon;  add%  lb.  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit,  and  cook  20  minutes 
more. 

Blackberry  Marmalade  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  without  any  currant 
juice. 

Rhubarb  Marmalade.  — Cut  the  rhubarb  into  pieces  1  or  2  inches  long;  to  each 
1%  lbs.  of  rhubarb  allow  1  lb.  sugar,  %  of  a  lemon  peel  cut  thin,  and  %  oz.  of 
bitter  almonds  blanched  and  divided.  Boil  all  well  together  and  put  up  like 
other  marmalades. 

Strawberry  Marmalade  or  Jam.— Allow  5  lbs.  sugar  and  1  lb.  currants  to  6 
lbs.  strawberries;  mash  the  currants  in  the  preserving  pan  with  1  cup  water,  put 
it  on  the  stove  and  boil;  then  add  the  strawberries  (which  should  be  picked  over), 
then  press  and  rub  them  into  an  earthenware  pan  through  a  fine  sieve.  Let  the 
sugar  boil  to  the  consistency  of  thick  molasses,  add  the  fruit  pulp,  and  boil 
briskly,  with  constant  stirring,  for  20  minutes.    Skim  it,  and  put  into  jars. 

Tomato  Marmalade. — First  scald,  peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes;  allow  2  lbs.  sugar 
to  1  lb.  tomatoes,  and  boil  them  down  together  until  well  thickened;  then  add  1 
tablespoon  powdered  ginger,  and  the  juice  and  peel  of  2  lemons,  for  every  3  lbs. 
of  tomatoes.  Roil  about  3  hours,  skimming  off  the  froth  that  rises;  when  very 
thick  put  in  jars. 

FRUIT  CHEESES. 

Fruit  cheeses  are  somewhat  like  marmalades,  and  they  are  generally  used  for 
desserts.  Stone  fruits,  like  plums,  quinces,  etc.,  make  the  best.  The  method  is 
usually  to  boil  the  fruit  until  it-  is  soft  enough  to  pass  through  a  sieve,  and  then 
the  pulp  is  boiled  with  sugar  until  it  will  solidify  when  cold.  Cherries  are  often 
used,  and  gooseberries  sometimes. 

Apricot  Cheese. — Wipe  apricots,  cut  them  into  pieces,  and  take  equal  quanti- 
ties by  weight  of  apricots  and  sugar;  wipe  the  inside  of  the  preserving  pan  with 
fine  salad  oil,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil  it  to  a  pulp,  stirring  all  the  time;  add 
the  sugar,  continue  to  stir,  and  boil  sharply  till  it  is  a  golden  brown;  it  will  cling 
to  the  spoon  when  done,  and  leave  the  pan  clear.  Pour  it  into  small  molds  and 
cover.  It  takes  about  6  hours  to  make.  Some  people  blanch  and  shred  the 
kernels,  and  add  them. 

Almack  Cheese. — Split  4  doz.  plums,  and  take  out  the  stones;  pare,  core,  and 
slice  2  doz.  pears  and  2  doz.  apples;  put  the  whole  in  layers  into  a  stone  jar,  and 
put  them  into  a  cool  oven;  when  sufficiently  tender  press  them  through  a  coarse 
sieve  into  a  preserving  pan,  and  stir  in  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Stir 
them  over  a  moderate  fire  until  very  firm.  Cut  into  slices  after  it  has  become 
sufficiently  cool. 

Quince  Cheese. — This  is  simply  marmalade  which  has  been  boiled  down  very 
thick,  and  put  into  little  jars.  It  will  be  as  solid  as  cheese  when  turned  out,  and 
it  can  be  served  for  tea  or  luncheon,  cut  into  slices  like  cheese. 

Plum  Cheese. — Add  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning,  and  boil  the  plums; 
now  mash  them,  strain,  and  add  ~%  lb.  good  brown  sugar  to  1  lb.  plums;  boil 
down  until  thick,  with  continual  stirring,  and  put  in  small  jars.  It  will  turn  out 
firm  as  cheese,  and  can  be  served  for  tea  or  luncheon  cut  in  slices. 

FRUIT  PASTES. 

These  are  a  kind  of  marmalade,  consisting  of  the  pulp  of  fruits,  first  evaporated 
to  a  proper  consistency,  and  then  boiled  with  sugar.  The  mixture  is  then  poured 
into  a  mold,  or  spread  on  sheets  of  tin,  and  afterwards  dried  in  the  oven  or  on  the 
stove  until  it  assumes  the  form  of  a  paste.    Strips  may  be  cut  from  one  of  these 


m  JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES. 

sheets  and  formed  into  any  shape  desired.  Use  only  fine  white  sugar  for  these 
pastes.  Use  a  wooden  spoon  to  stir  them  with,  and  watch  them  carefully,  as  if 
they  burn  in  cooking  it  will  spoil  them.  The  cakes  can  be  cut  up  and  kept  in  tin 
or  paper  boxes  with  layers  of  paper  between;  they  are  fine  with  desserts. 

Apple  Paste.— Choose  sound  ripe  apples,  peel,  core  them,  and  cook  in  a  little 
water  till  quite  soft;  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  using  a  wooden  spoon;  weigh 
the  pulp  and  put  it  in  the  preserving  pan,  with  the  same  weight  of  sugar,  and 
boil  20  minutes;  remove  it,  spread  out  thin  on  plates  or  in  molds,  and  dry  in  a 
cool  oven  or  on  a  cool  stove.  If  desired  it  can  be  colored  with  some  of  the  veget- 
able colors  elsewhere  given. 

Apricot  Paste. — Use  ripe  apricots;  put  them  in  a  preserving  pan  with  a  little 
sugar,  and  place  them  on  the  side  of  the  range  to  reduce  them  to  a  paste;  rub 
them  through  a  hair  sieve,  allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  pulp,  and  boil  it  10  minutes; 
then  finish  like  apple  paste. 

Currant  Paste.  —Take  red  or  white  currants,  pick  them  over  carefully,  rub 
through  a  sieve,  and  put  the  mashed  fruit  in  a  pan  on  the  fire,  stirring  it  until  it 
forms  a  paste;  allow  1%  lbs.  sugar  for  1  lb.  pulp,  mix  them  together,  and  boil  20 
minutes.    Finish  like  other  paste. 

Orange  Paste.— Press  the  juice  out  of  5  Seville  oranges,  and  boil  them  until 
the  rinds  are  very  soft  indeed;  with  a  thin  wooden  or  silver  spoon  scoop  out  all 
the  pulp,  and  pound  the  rinds  as  fine  as  possible  in  a  mortar  with  ^  the  extracted 
juice.  Rub  it  all  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  simmer  on  the  fire  until  it  becomes 
like  marmalade.  Empty  it  out,  weigh  it,  and  allow  2  lbs.  sugar  for  1  lb.  pulp; 
boil  it  10  minutes,  and  spread  out  and  dry  like  apple  paste. 

Lemon  Paste  can  be  made  the  same  way,  but  do  not  use  any  of  the  juice. 

Peach  Paste. — Cut  the  peaches  into  small  pieces,  and  cook,  with  barely  enough 
water  to  cover  them,  until  reduced  to  a  pulp;  allow  ^  R>-  sugar  to  1  lb.  pulp,  and 
boil  20  minutes;  finish  like  other  paste. 

Plum  Paste. — Any  kind  of  preserving  plums  will  do;  stone  them  and  boil,  with 
very  little  water,  to  a  jam;  rub  through  a  hair  sieve,  put  on  the  stove,  and  reduce 
to  a  paste;  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  pulp,  and  cook  20  minutes;  finish  like  other 
paste. 

Raspberry  Paste. — Take  2  quarts  of  ripe  red  raspberries,  put  them  in  an 
earthen  jar  and  place  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  boil  until  the  juice  is  well 
separated,  then  pulp  them  through  a  fine  colander.  Mix  with  the  fruit  an  equal 
weight  of  sugar,  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  cook  until  it  is  a  firm  paste— stirring 
constantly  to  prevent  burning;  spread  on  plates  to  nearly  dry  in  the  oven,  then 
cut  it  in  squares  cover  both  sides  well  with  pulverized  sugar,  and  pack  in  paper 
boxes  with  layers  of  white  paper  between. 

Strawberry  Paste  can  be  made  the  same  way. 


JAMS. 

These  are  made  with  large  fruit  cut  into  small  pieces,  or  with  whole  small 
fruits.  In  making  common  jams  the  fruit  should  be  well  boiled  before  the  sugar 
is  added,  and  care  should  be  taken  that  it  is  not  so  much  thickened  that  the 
sugar  will  not  easily  dissolve.  The  old  rule  was  equal  amounts  of  fruit  and  sugar, 
but  acid  fruits  require  more  sugar  than  those  which  are  sweet.  If  they  burn  at 
all  in  cooking  the  flavor  is  spoiled;  to  prevent  this  close  attention  is  needed  and 
constant  stirring.  Jam  will  not  keep  well  unless  sufficiently  boiled,  and  enough 
sugar  is  used,  but  do  not  use  too  much  sugar. 

As  jams  and  preserves  made  from  stone  fruits  are  apt  to  ferment,  care  should 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES.  317 

be  taken  to  get  rid  of  the  moisture,  and  only  enough  water  added  in  cooking  to 
simply  prevent  burning. 

In  the  "General  Suggestions"  previously  given  we  explain  about  putting  jams 
into  glasses  or  jars  when  done.  The  hardening  of  fruit  is  discussed  under  pre- 
serves, but  mashing  also  prevents  hardening. 

Apple  Jam. — Pare,  core  and  slice  the  apples;  boil  them  till  soft,  add  %  lb. 
sugar  for  1  lb.  fruit,  and  cook  till  done.  A  fine  flavor  will  be  imparted  by  tying 
in  muslin  a  little  lemon  peel,  ginger  and  cloves,  and  boiling  it  with  the  fruit; 
take  it  out  when  the  jam  is  done. 

Blackberry  Jam. — Take  5  lbs.  of  fruit,  mash  it,  and  boil  10  minutes;  then  add 
7  lbs.  sugar,  and  boil  20  minutes,  stirring  to  keep  from  burning.  Put  into  the 
glasses  hot;  tie  up  when  cold. 

Cherry  Jam. — Before  stoning  the  cherries  weigh  them,  and  to  1  lb.  cherries 
allow  %  lb.  sugar;  then  stone  them  and  boil  until  the  juice  is  nearly  evaporated, 
stirring  constantly;  then  add  the  sugar,  and  add  also  1  pint  of  red  currant  juice 
for  each  Gibs,  of  cherries  used,  and  add  also  1  lb.  sugar  for  each  pint  of  currant 
juice  used;  then  finish  like  other  jams. 

Red  Currant  Jam. — Pick  over  the  currants  carefully,  and  allow  %  lb.  sugar  to 
each  pound  fruit;  let  them  simmer  in  the  farina  boiler  until  soft;  then  set  aside 
until  next  morning,  and  cook  them  gently  in  a  porcelain  kettle  25  minutes;  then 
put  into  glasses. 

White  Currant  and  Barberry  Jam  can  be  made  the  same  w  ay,  but  for  barber- 
ries allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  berries. 

Gooseberry  Jam. — Pick  the  gooseberries  just  as  they  begin  to  turn;  stem, 
wash  and  weigh  them;  to  4  lbs.  of  fruit  add  %  teacup  of  water,  boil  until  soft, 
then  add  1  lbs.  sugar,  and  boil  until  clear.  The  jam  will  be  clear  and  amber- 
colored  if  the  fruit  is  picked  at  the  right  stage,  and  much  nicer  than  if  it  is  not 
picked  until  fully  ripe. 

Grape  Jam. — Allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  grapes;  squeeze  the  pulp  from  the  skin; 
boil  the  pulp  a  few  minutes  and  remove  the  seeds  by  passing  through  a  sieve; 
then  add  the  skins  and  sugar,  boil  until  it  thickens,  and  put  up  like  other  jam. 

Green  Grape  Jam  is  made  the  same  way. 

Orange  Jam. — Sweet  oranges  are  best;  remove  the  rind  and  then  the  seeds  by 
passing  it  through  a  colander  or  sieve;  to  1  lb.  pulp  and  juice  allow  1  lb.  sugar; 
boil  10  minutes,  add  the  sugar  and  cook  till  done;  put  up  like  other  jams. 

Pineapple  Jam. — Pare  it,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  in  just  enough  water 
to  cover  until  tender.  Allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit;  make  the  sugar  into  a 
syrup,  add  the  pineapple  and  boil  10  minutes;  then  put  up  like  other  jams. 

Plum  Jam. — Allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit  before  it  is  stoned;  then  take  out 
the  stones  and  stew  the  fruit  in  a  little  water  till  soft;  pass  it  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  add  the  sugar,  and  cook  until  done.     Put  up  like  other  jam. 

Quince  Jam. — Cook  any  desired  amount  of  quinces  until  soft  in  as  little  water 
as  possible  without  burning;  pour  off  the  water  and  rub  the  fruit  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  smooth;  add  10  oz.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit,  let  it  boil  20  minutes,  and 
remove  it  from  the  fire;  put  up  like  other  jams. 

Raspberry  Jam. — Mash  the  berries,  and  treat  as  directed  for  strawberries. 
If  2  parts  raspberries  and  1  part  red  currants  are  mixed  it  makes  a  fine  jam,  or 
add  a  little  currant  juice. 

Rhubarb  Jam. — Allow  1  lb.  sugar  for  1  lb.  rhubarb;  cut  up  the  fruit  into  small 
pieces,  put  on  the  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  several  hours,  or  until  next  morning; 
then  take  out  the  fruit,  and  boil  the  syrup  until  it  thickens;  then  put  in  the  fruit 


318  JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES. 

and  let  it  simmer  gently  until  done,  stirring  it  to  prevent  its  burning;  then  put 
in  glasses. 

Strawberry  Jain.— Hull  the  berries,  put  them  over  the  fire,  and  boil  gently  % 
hour,  keeping  them  constantly  stirred;  allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit;  remove 
the  berries  from  the  tire,  add  the  sugar,  and  then  boil  them  again  %  hour.  Then 
put  in  jars  as  before  directed. 

Tomato  Jam.  Use  equal  weights  of  sugar  and  tomatoes;  peel  and  slice  them, 
add  the  sugar,  and  let  simmer  gently  until  done,  which  should  be  in  about  an 
hour.  A  pleasant  flavor  may  be  imparted  by  tying  lemon  peel  and  ginger  in  a 
muslin  bag,  and  letting  it  cook  with  the  fruit,  lifting  it  out  when  that  is  cooked. 


PRESERVES. 

The  fruit  used  for  preserves  should  be  perfectly  sound,  fresh  and  ripe,  and 
use  good  sugar.  If  you  would  have  good  preserves  work  carefully.  A  very  large 
amount  is  less  easily  handled  than  less. 

The  old  rule  of  pound  for  pound  of  sugar  and  fruit  is  hardly  reliable,  because 
fruits  differ  so  much  in  sweetness.  If  too  much  sugar  is  used  the  fruit  may  be 
unpleasantly  sweet,  and  very  little  of  the  fruit  flavor  left. 

Cooking  the  Fruit.— Large  fruits  should  cook  until  a  broom  straw  will  readily 
pierce  them.  To  avoid  burning,  boil  them  gently.  They  must  be  soft  enough  to 
be  readily  penetrated  by  the  sugar  (as  that  is  what  preserves  them)  but  that  is 
all.  Over  boiling  is  to  be  avoided,  and  small  fruit  especially,  like  strawberries 
and  raspberries,  are  spoiled  if  much  cooked.  The  object  aimed  at  is  to  have  the 
sugar  thoroughly  permeate  the  fruit  enough  to  preserve  it,  but  without  injuring 
its  shape  more  than  necessary.  Fruit  is  darkened  in  color  and  its  flavor  injured 
by  long  boiling.  Small  fruits  and  berries  should  be  taken  out  of  the  syrup,  when 
done,  with  a  small  strainer,  as  a  cup  will  not  separate  the  syrup  from  them. 

When  the  fruit  has  simmered  in  the  syrup  until  done  quite  through,  it  may 
be  taken  out  with  a  skimmer  and  set  on  dishes  to  cool;  then  boil  up  the  syrup 
until  it  begins  to  jelly,  put  back  the  fruit,  boil  it  up  once,  and  then  put  it  into 
jars.  Another  way  is  to  put  the  fruit  directly  into  jars  instead  of  on  dishes  to 
cool;  then  boil  the  syrup  and  pour  it  over,  and  tie  up  as  directed  in  the  "General 
Suggestions"  at  the  beginning  of  this  section.     Either  method  works  Well. 

Hardening  Fruit. — Those  fruits  like  strawberries,  tomatoes,  peaches,  apples, 
etc.,  which  are  liable  in  cooking  to  become  too  soft,  can  be  allowed  to  stand  a  few 
hours  with  sugar  on  them,  or  pour  on  hot  syrup;  this  hardens  them  by  extracting 
the  juice.  There  are  some  fruits  like  citrons,  quinces,  pineapples,  etc.,  which 
harden  if  put  into  strong  syrup  at  first;  to  avoid  this  they  can  be  cooked  first  in 
water  or  weak  syrup  until  tender,  and  then  the  balance  of  the  sugar  added. 

Canned  fruit  can  be  used  in  making  preserves,  and  then  less  sugar  is  needed. 
Adding  a  few  slices  of  lemon  or  orange  will  improve  the  flavor. 

Keeping  Preserves. — Preserves  keep  better  in  glass  than  in  earthenware  vessels, 
but  they  should  be  wrapped  in  paper  to  keep  the  light  from  bleaching  them;  keep 
in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place. 

To  Clarify  and  Prepare  Syrup  —  A  good  syrup  can  be  made  with  2  pints 
granulated  or  loaf  sugar,  and  2  cups  water;  put  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and 
stir  in  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  light  but  not  dry;  bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil,  stir- 
ring frequently,  and  then  at  once  move  to  the  back  of  the  range,  cover  it,  and  let 
it  simmer  gently,  not  boil  rapidly,  for  %  hour;  then  take  off  the  cover  and  remove 
the  cake  of  thick  white  scum  appearing  on  top.  The  syrup  will  be  clear  and 
ready  for  use.  White  of  egg,  being  albumen,  coagulates  at  160°,  and  as  it  rises 
to  the  surface  it  acts  like  a  strainer,  carrying  the  impurities  with  it;  hard 
boiling  breaks  it  into  small  grains,  and  it  does  not  strain  well.  Small  fruits, 
like  strawberries,  raspberries,  currants,  etc.,  put  into  this  syrup  will  retain 
their  form,  color,  and  their  fresh  and  natural  taste.  Juicy  fruits  require  a  rich 
syrup,  like  the  above,  but  dry  fruits  which  require  long  cooking  need  a  thinner 
syrup  made  of  equal  parts  of  water  and  sugar. 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES.  319 

Graining. — A  little  acid  added  to  syrup  will  prevent  graining,  as  explained 
for  candy  making. 

Apple  Preserves.-  Choose  firm.well-flavored  apples,  and  proceed  as  directed  for 
quinces.  They  can  be  improved  by  adding  the  juice  of  1  lemon  to  each  1%  lbs.  of 
apples;  or  cut  up  and  add  a  little  quince. 

Preserved  Apricots. — Stone' and  pare  1  lb.  of  the  finest  apricots,  put  them  into 
a  preserving  pan,  and  dust  on  some  double  refined  sugar;  have  ready  and  add  1 
cup  of  the  juice  of  white  currants,  pressed  out  of  raw  berries;  use  1%  lbs.  loaf 
sugar,  putting  in  half  of  it  first,  and  adding  the  balance  at  2  different  times 
during  the  cooking.  Boil  them  over  a  slow  fire,  and  when  done  put  them  up, 
putting  2  or  3  in  a  glass;  be  careful  not  to  break  them  in  the  skimming.  A  little 
more  boiling  makes  it  jam. 

Crab  Apple  Preserves. — The  red  Siberian  crab  is  the  best.  Pick  out  those 
nearly  perfect,  leaving  the  stems  on;  put  them  in  the  preserving  kettle  with 
enough  warm  water  to  cover  them,  heat  this  to  boiling  slowly,  and  simmer  until 
the  skins  break.  Drain  and  skin  them;  then  with  a  pen-knife  extract  the  cores 
through  the  blossom  ends.  Weigh  them,  allow  1%  ^s-  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water 
to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  until  the  scum  ceases 
to  rise,  put  in  the  fruit,  cover  the  kettle,  and  simmer  until  the  apples  are  a  clear 
red  and  tender.  Take  out  with  a  skimmer,  spread  upon  dishes  to  cool  and  harden; 
add  to  the  syrup  the  juice  of  1  lemon  to  3  lbs.  fruit,  and  boil  until  clear  and  rich. 
Fill  jars  %  full  with  apples,  pour  in  the  syrup,  and  when  cool,  tie  up. 

Barberry  Preserves. — Use  1  lb.  sugar  and  1  cup  water  to  1  lb.  of  barberries; 
prepare  the  syrup  and  put  in  the  barberries;  let  them  cook  until  the  syrup  is 
quite  thick,  which  will  probably  be  in  about  2  hours.  Then  put  them  up  in  jars 
with  enough  syrup  to  keep  them.  The  rest  of  the  syrup  can  be  strained,  put 
in  bottles,  and  corked  tight,  and  it  can  be  used  to  make  a  delightful  and  a  refresh- 
ing drink. 

Blackberry  Preserves. — Choose  the  best  berries,  pick  them  over,  and  allow  1 
lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  berries;  let  them  stand  for  1  or  2  hours  spread  on  dishes  with 
the  sugar  sprinkled  on;  then  put  them  on  the  stove  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  adding 
all  the  juice  which  came  from  them,  and  heat  slightly.  Now  take  them  out,  put- 
ting them  on  the  plates,  and  boil  the  syrup  for  5  minutes  rapidly;  then  put  back 
the  berries,  and  let  them  simmer  {not  boil);  if  they  show  a  tendency  to  break, 
take  them  from  the  stove  at  once.    Cool  them  slightly,  and  put  in  jelly  glasses. 

Currants  and  Dewberries  are  put  up  the  same  way. 

Preserved  Cberries. — Select  short-stemmed  red  cherries,  or  Morellos,  as  sweet 
cherries  are  not  suitable  for  preserving.  Stone  them,  and  save  every  drop  of  the 
juice;  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit;  first  put  in  a  layer  of  sugar,  then 
a  layer  of  fruit,  and  so  on  until  all  are  put  in;  let  them  stand  2  or  3  hours,  pour 
over  the  juice,  and  boil  gently  until  the  syrup  begins  to  thicken;  then  put  in  jars. 
Adding  3  tablespoons  of  red  currant  juice  to  each  lb.  of  fruit  is  an  improvement. 

Currants  may  be  put  up  the  same  way.     White  currants  make  fine  preserves. 

Citron  Melon. — Pare  and  cut  the  melons  into  small  pieces  about  %  inch  square. 
Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  cover  with  water  and  boil  until  tender,  butnot  to  break; 
then  put  them  in  a  cloth  strainer  and  hang  up  to  drain  over  night.  The  next  day 
weigh  the  melon,  and  with  an  equal  weight  of  granulated  sugar  make  enough 
syrup  to  cover  the  melon,  then  boil  gently  until  the  melon  is  clear.  By  this  time 
the  syrup  will  have  become  quite  thick.  Set  away  in  the  kettle  to  stand  over 
night,  or  until  it  is  cooled  through.    Allow  4  lemons  to  every  pound  of  the  pre- 


320  JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES. 

serves.  Squeeze  and  strain  the  lemon  juice  onto  the  preserves,  and  with  the  hand 
lift  and  gently  mix  all  together,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  cubes  of  melon. 
Put  cold  into  glass  jars;  place  a  few  cloves,  from  which  the  heads  have  been 
taken,  on  the  top  of  each  jar;  screw  the  cover  on  tightly,  and  put  in  a  dark  cool 
place.  It  must  be  a  month  old  before  using.  This  is  a  delicious  sweetmeat.  Be 
sure  that  the  lemons  are  not  bitter. 

Citron  Preserves. — These  should  be  made  as  late  in  the  season  as  possible, 
when  the  melons  are  ripest.  After  paring,  cut  into  fancy  shapes,  but  not  too 
small.  Cook  till  tender,  in  just  water  enough  to  cover,  with  a  large  spoonful  of 
alum  added.  Drain  the  pieces  well,  and  then  cook  %  hour  in  the  preserving 
syrup,  with  the  juice  of  several  lemons  added,  omitting  the  rind,  as  it  is  apt  to 
impart  a  bitter  taste.  In  a  few  weeks  this  citron  may  be  taken  from  the  syrup, 
drained,  dipped  in  powdered  sugar,  and  dried  on  plates  in  the  sun,  when  it  is 
very  nice  for  cake,  to  add  to  its  flavor  and  beauty.  If  this  is  to  be  done  on  a  large 
scale,  however,  the  pieces  of  citron  should  be  quite  large  for  convenience. 

Cranberry  Preserves. — Allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pound  of  berries;  make  a 
strong  syrup  by  adding  water,  using  only  enough  water  to  dissolve  the  sugar;  put 
in  the  fruit,  boil  until  tender,  and  put  into  glasses. 

Preserved  Black  Currants. — Pick  over  the  currants  and  cook  till  all  are 
broken.  Add  %  as  much  sugar  (measured)  as  you  have  fruit.  Cook  J^  hour 
longer  and  seal.    This  is  excellent  for  a  sore  throat. 

Fig  Preserves.— Gather  the  fruit  when  fully  ripe  but  not  cracked  open;  place 
it  in  a  perforated  tin  bucket  or  wire  screen,  and  dip  it  for  a  moment  in  a  deep 
kettle  of  lye,  hot  and  moderately  strong  (some  prefer  to  let  them  lay  an  hour  in 
limewater,  draining  them  afterwards).  Allow  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  figs,  make  it 
into  a  syrup;  drain  the  figs,  put  them  in,  and  boil  until  well  cooked;  skim  out  the 
figs  and  boil  down  the  syrup  until  there  is  just  enough  to  cover  the  figs;  put  the 
figs  back  in  the  syrup,  let  all  boil,  put  into  glasses  while  hot,  and  seal. 

Green  Fig  Preserves. — Lay  the  figs  in  cold  water  for  24  hours;  then  simmer 
them  until  tender;  put  them  again  in  cold  water,  and  let  them  remain  2  days, 
changing  the  water  each  day.  Then  if  you  do  not  find  them  soft,  give  them 
another  simmer  and  put  them  again  into  cold  water  until  the  next  day.  Then 
take  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit,  and  with  %  of  it  make  a  syrup  and  simmer  the  figs 
in  it  for  10  minutes.  In  2  days  take  the  remaining  %  of  the  sugar  and  pour  the 
syrup  from  the  figs  on  it.  Make  a  rich  syrup,  adding  the  peel  of  a  lemon  and  a  little 
raw  ginger,  and  boil  the  figs  in  it;  then  mix  all  together  and  put  into  large  jam- 
pots, and  tie  them  closely  over.  The  figs  may  be  cut  in  half  if  preferred,  after 
they  have  simmered  until  soft. 

Tomato  Figs. — These,  although  made  from  tomatoes,will  nearly  approach  true 
figs,  and  will  keep  as  long  as  desired.  Select  good  tomatoes,  scald,  skin  them,  and 
allow  1%  lbs.  best  brown  sugar  to  each  4  lbs.  tomatoes.  Let  them  simmer  gently  in 
the  sugar  until  they  cook  clear,  and  the  sugar  permeates  them  thoroughly  (add 
no  water),  and  then  take  them  out  and  dry  them,  spread  on  dishes  in  the  sun; 
while  they  are  drying  sprinkle  a  little  syrup  on  them.  Pack  them  in  layers  with 
sugar  between,  in  boxes  or  jars.  While  drying  do  not  let  rain  or  dew  fall  on 
them. 

Green  Ginger  Preserves. — Put  the  ginger  for  2  weeks  every  night  and  morn- 
ing into  boiling  water;  then  pare  off  the  outside  skin  with  a  sharp  knife.  Boil  it 
in  water  till  quite  soft,  and  slice  it  into  thin  slices.  Prepare  a  syrup  of  1  lb.  sugar 
to  1^  pint  water,  clarify  it,  put  in  the  ginger,  and  boil  till  it  is  clear.  Let  it  cool 
before  putting  it  in  jars. 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES.  321 

Mock  Ginger  Preserves. — Boil  small  tender  carrots,  scrape  them  until  free  of 
all  spots,  and  cut  out  the  heart  or  middle  portion.  Steep  them  for  several  days 
in  frequently  changed  water,  until  the  flavor  of  the  carrot  has  been  completely 
destroyed.  Allow  1  quart  of  water,  2  lbs.  sugar,  2  oz.  whole  ginger,  and  the  thin 
peel  (yellow  only)  of  1  lemon  to  each  pound  of  prepared  carrots.  Boil  ^  hour 
daily  until  the  carrots  are  transparent.  When  done,  add  enough  red  pepper  to 
make  the  preserves  as  hot  as  desired. 

Gooseberry  Preserves.— Allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  each  pound  of  gooseberries;  top 
and  tail  them,  and  put  the  berries  and  sugar  into  a  deep  jar  in  alternate  layers; 
pour  on  enough  red  currant  juice  to  dissolve  the  sugar  and  add  the  same  weight 
of  sugar;  cook  it  next  day  in  the  preserving  pan,  and  put  it  in  glasses. 

Green  Gooseberry  Preserves. — Top,  tail  and  wash  the  gooseberries  in  cold 
water,  and  drain;  then  pour  on  boiling  water  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes  to 
scald;  this  will  soften  them  and  extract  part  of  their  acid;  when  tender,  take  them 
out  with  a  skimmer  and  slip  them  into  cold  water,  leave  a  few  minutes  and  take 
out  with  the  skimmer,  and  slide  carefully  into  the  syrup;  have  the  syrup  made 
with  3  cups  water  and  134  lbs.  sugar  for  each  lb.  of  gooseberries;  let  them  simmer 
slowly  in  the  syrup  until  quite  clear — about  20  minutes;  if  they  seem  likely  to 
break  take  them  out  sooner  with  the  skimmer,  and  let  the  syrup  boil  a  little 
longer;  put  them  in  the  jars,  and  when  cold  pour  on  the  syrup,  and  tie  up. 

Grape  Preserves. — Pick  from  the  stem,  wash,  drain,  and  weigh,  and  allow  an 
equal  weight  of  sugar;  then  press  the  skin  from  the  pulp  with  the  thumb  and 
finger,  and  cook  the  pulp  gently;  when  the  seeds  loosen  pass  it  through  a  sieve  to 
remove  them.  Then  put  the  skins  into  the  juice,  cover,  and  simmer  gently  until 
tender;  add  the  sugar,  keep  it  hot,  without  boiling,  15  minutes,  and  can. 

Greengage  Preserves. — Prick  the  plums  with  a  fine  needle  to  prevent  their 
breaking;  put  them  into  a  preserving  pan  with  only  enough  water  to  cover  them, 
and  set  them  over  a  gentle  fire  until  the  water  simmers;  then  take  them  out  and 
set  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain  Add  to  the  water  in  which  the  plums  were  boiled 
1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  plums;  boil  it  quickly,  skimming  it  as  the  scum  rises,  until 
the  syrup  thickens  on  the  spoon;  then  put  in  the  plums,  let  them  boil  until  the 
sugar  bubbles,  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  basin;  let  it  stand  until  the  next  day. 
Drain  the  syrup  from  the  fruit,  boil  it  up  quickly,  and  pour  it  over  the  plums. 
Repeat  this  for  4  days,  which  cooks  the  fruit  without  injuring  the  shape;  then 
boil  it  in  the  syrup  for  5  or  6  minutes,  put  into  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  over. 
The  kernels  must  be  blanched  and  boiled  with  the  fruit. 

Damsons  can  be  put  up  the  same  way. 

Huckleberry  Preserves. — Use  %.  lb.  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  to 
each  lb.  of  huckleberries;  put  half  the  sugar  on  the  berries,  and  let  stand  a  few 
hours  or  over  night;  then  drain  off  the  juice,  add  1  cup  water,  the  lemon  juice, 
and  the  balance  of  the  sugar;  set  it  on  the  stove  till  the  sugar  dissolves,  boil 
quickly,  and  skim;  then  put  in  the  berries  and  let  it  simmer  merely  until  they 
are  tender — about  %  hour;  then  take  them  out,  put  in  jars,  and  when  cold,  pour 
on  the  syrup  and  tie  up. 

Preserved  Lemons. — Pare  off  the  thin  yellow  skin  carefully,  cut  a  small  hole 
in  the  end,  scoop  out  the  pulp  carefully  with  a  silver  spoon,  rub  each  one  with 
salt  and  drop  it  into  clear  cold  water  as  fast  as  finished,  which  will  prevent  its 
turning  dark;  let  them  lie  in  it  for  5  or  6  days,  and  then  boil  them  in  fresh  salt 
and  water  15  minutes.  Have  ready  made  a  thin  syrup  of  1  quart  of  water  to  1  lb. 
sugar;  drain,  and  boil  them  in  this  for  5  minutes,  and  repeat  once  a  day  for  4  or  5 
21 


322  JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES. 

days;  then  put  them  in  jars  with  the  syrup  and  let  them  stand  6  or  8  weeks,  as 
that  will  make  them  clear  and  plump;  then  take  them  out  of  the  syrup.  Make  a 
fresh  syrup  of  double  refined  sugar,  with  only  enough  water  to  moisten  it;  boil 
and  skim  it,  put  in  the  lemons,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly  until  they  are  clear. 
Put  them  in  small  jars,  covered  as  previously  directed,  and  tie  them  up  tight. 

Mulberry  Preserves. — Put  about  %  lb.  of  mulberries  into  a  preserving  pan 
with  1  gill  water  to  prevent  burning;  simmer  slowly  over  a  slow  fire  until  all  the 
juice  is  extracted;  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  3%  lbs.  of  sugar  to  each 
1%  pints  juice.  Put  the  sugar  into  the  preserving  pan,  pour  the  strained  juice 
on  it,  boil  up,  and  skim  it  well.  Then  add  3  lbs.  of  ripe  mulberries,  and  let  them 
stand  in  the  syrup  until  warm;  then  boil  them  slowly  for  about  %  hour,  and 
turn  them  out  carefully  into  a  china  bowl  until  the  next  day;  then  repeat  the 
boiling  %  hour,  or  until  the  syrup  is  thick  and  will  jelly  when  cold.  Put  into 
jelly  glasses,  set  away  to  cool,  and  then  tie  up.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  break 
the  mulberries  when  boiling. 

Muskmelons. — Choose  ripe  muskmelons,  remove  the  seeds,  peel,  cut  in  pieces, 
put  into  a  stone  jar,  and  cover  with  scalding  vinegar;  let  them  stand  until  the 
next  day,  pour  off  the  vinegar,  heat  it,  and  pour  on  them  again;  repeat  this  every 
day  for  4  days.  To  each  5  lbs.  of  fruit  allow  1  quart  of  vinegar,  3  lbs.  sugar,  and 
spices  to  suit;  put  all  together,  and  simmer  until  the  melons  are  tender;  then  set 
aside,  and  the  second  day  pour  off  the  syrup,  and  boil  it  down  so  there  will  be 
just  enough  to  cover  the  melons.    Then  put  in  glasses. 

Preserved  Oranges. — Select  very  ripe  oranges,  cut  a  small  hole  in  the  stalk 
end,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp  with  a  silver  spoon  very  clean,  and  be  careful  not  to 
break  the  rind;  save  all  the  juice  by  holding  the  orange  over  a  bowl  while  scoop- 
ing it  out,  and  drop  each  one  into  a  basin  of  cold  water  as  fast  as  done;  then  drain 
them,  put  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
them,  having  dissolved  in  it  1  teaspoon  of  alum  to  each  %  gallon  of  water;  let 
them  simmer  gently  in  this  solution,  until  almost  transparent  and  clear;  now 
drain  them,  put  into  cold  water,  change  it  2  or  3  times,  and  let  them  stand  until 
next  morning,  then  drain  again,  pour  on  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  again  gently 
simmer  for  1%  hours,  and  drain  them;  now  allow  1  lb.  of  sugar  and  1  cup  water 
for  each  pound  of  the  rinds,  and  make  the  sugar  and  water  into  a  syrup;  then  put 
in  the  oranges,  together  with  the  juice  which  was  saved,  and  gently  simmer  until 
they  are  clear  and  tender;  then  take  them  out,  lay  them  on  dishes  to  dry,  and  set 
-away  2  days,  and  the  syrup  also.  Now  take  4  fresh  oranges  for  each  1  which  is 
being  preserved,  cut  them  in  two,  extract  the  juice,  and  allow  1)^  lbs.  sugar  to 
each  pint  of  it.  Put  this  sugar  and  juice  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  the  sugar 
dissolves,  boil  it  quickly  to  a  thick  jelly,  which  should  be  in  about  20  minutes; 
test  it  and  it  will  be  done  if  a  teaspoon  of  it  hardens  at  once  when  set  in  a  saucer 
in  a  cool  place.  Now  put  this  jelly  into  the  oranges,  filling  them  full,  and  let  it 
harden  until  the  next  morning.  Then  put  them  in  glasses  with  the  opened  end 
down,  and  pour  on  the  first  syrup,  and  tie  them  up.  They  will  be  found  a  deli- 
cious preserve. 

Lemons  and  Limes  can  be  put  up  in  the  same  manner. 

Preserved  Oranges  No.  2. — Select  good  oranges  and  boil  them  in  soft  water 
until  you  can  run  a  broom  straw  through  the  skin.  Allow  %  lb.  sugar  for  1  lb. 
oranges,  make  it  into  a  syrup,  clarify  it;  then  drain  the  oranges  from  the  water, 
pour  on  the  hot  syrup,  and  let  them  stand  in  it  over  night.  Boil  them  in  the 
syrup  the  next  day  until  it  is  thick  and  clear;  then  put  them  in  jars,  pour  the 
strained  syrup  on  them,  and  tie  up. 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES-  323 

Orange  and  Rhubarb  Preserves. — Take  6  oranges  and  carefully  peel  off  the 
thin  yellow  rind;  remove  the  white  rind  and  the  seeds,  and  slice  the  pulp  into  a 
preserving  pan,  adding  the  yellow  rind  cut  very  fine.  Add  1  quart  of  rhubarb  cut 
fine,  and  1  lb.  to  Y%  lbs.  sugar,  and  boil  the  whole  down  and  put  up  like  any  other 
preserves. 

Peach  Preserves. — Select  fine  ripe  peaches;  pare,  halve  and  stone  them;  allow 
1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit,  and  put  a  layer  of  sugar  in  the  kettle,  then  a  layer  of 
peaches,  and  so  on  alternately  until  all  is  used.  Cover  and  let  it  stand  until  the 
next  morning;  then  bring  to  a  boil  quickly,  and  let  it  simmer  merely,  until  the 
fruit  is  clear  and  tender.  Blanch  and  add  4  peach  kernels  for  each  pound  of 
fruit,  for  flavor,  when  it  begins  to  boil.  Then  lift  out  the  fruit  carefully,  and  put 
it  into  glasses;  boil  the  syrup  until  thick  (about  15  minutes)  and  pour  it  over. 

Apricots  and  Nectarines  can  be  put  up  in  the  same  way. 

Pears  can  be  put  up  in  like  manner,  but  they  should  be  pared;  leave  the  stems 
on,  and  if  small  put  them  up  whole.    Add  no  peach  kernels. 

Preserving  Peaches  Without  Cooking.  —Brush  the  down  from  the  peaches, 
and  put  them  into  a  deep  dish;  pour  enough  boiling  water  on  to  cover  them,  and 
lay  a  thickly-folded  towel  over  the  dish,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  water  is  nearly 
cold;  then  take  out  the  peaches  one  by  one  and  rub  off  the  skins  with  a  coarse 
towel.  Then  put  a  layer  of  sugar  in  a  jar,  then  a  layer  of  peaches,  cover  them 
thickly  with  sugar,  and  so  on  alternately,  having  sugar  on  top.  Close  and  seal 
them  down  at  once,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Removing  the  skins  by  the 
use  of  hot  water  as  above  directed,  is  much  easier  than  paring  them. 

Preserved  Pears. — If  large,  they  can  be  pared  and  quartered;  if  small,  they  can 
be  pared  and  put  up  whole.  Allow  equal  weights  of  fruit  and  sugar;  make  the 
sugar  into  a  syrup,  using  1  cup  of  water  to  the  pound;  when  clear,  put  in  the 
fruit  and  heat  it  through;  then  take  it  out  and  cool  it;  then  put  it  back  and  cook 
until  soft,  and  then  put  in  jars.  A  clove  stuck  in  the  end  of  each  pear  before 
cooking  imparts  a  pleasant,  flavor.  Some  people  stew  a  few  slices  of  lemon  peel 
in  the  syrup  for  flavoring. 

Preserved  Pineapple. — Pare  off  the  rough  outside  carefully,  that  nothing  be 
lost,  and  slice  the  fruit;  put  it  in  a  preserving  pan,  add  1  teacup  of  water  to  each 
pound  of  fruit,  and  boil  gently  until  it  is  tender  and  clear;  then  take  it  out  with 
a  skimmer,  add  1  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  of  fruit;  stir  until  it  is  dissolved,  then  put 
in  the  pineapple  and  let  it  boil  gently  until  it  is  transparent  throughout;  then 
take  out  the  fruit,  cool  it,  and  put  it  into  glass  jars.  Let  the  syrup  simmer  gen- 
tly until  it  is  thick  and  rich,  and  when  nearly  cool  pour  it  over  the  fruit,  and  the 
next  day  seal  up  the  jars.  Pineapple  is  often  put  directly  into  the  syrup  without 
first  boiling  in  water,  but  it  is  then  tougher  and  not  so  good. 

Persimmons. — See  "Keeping  Provisions." 

Preserved  Plums.  —(1)  Weigh  them  and  allow  1  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  plums;  put 
a  layer  of  sugar  in  a  stone  jar,  then  a  layer  of  plums,  and  so  on  alternately  until 
all  are  in,  finishing  with  sugar;  now  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  leave  them 
until  the  oven  cools,  or  put  them  in  at  tea-time,  and  let  them  stay  all  night;  then 
boil  and  clarify  the  juice,  after  straining  it  from  the  plums;  put  the  fruit  in 
glasses,  pour  on  the  hot  syrup,  and  tie  up.  (2)  Another  way  is  to  allow  $£  lb. 
sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Divide  the  plums,  take  out  the  stones,  and  put 
them  on  a  dish  with  sugar  strewed  over;  the  next  day  put  them  into  a  preserving 
pan  and  let  them  simmer  gently  over  a  nice  fire  for  about  30  minutes;  then  boil 
them  quickly,  removing  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  keep  them  constantly  stirred,  or 


324  JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES. 

the  fruit  will  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.    Crack  the  stones,  and  add  the 
kernels  to  the  preserves  when  it  boils.    Then  put  up  like  other  preserves. 

Pumpkin  Preserves. — Choose  a  good  sweet  pumpkin,  pare,  take  out  the  seeds 
and  cut  into  slices.  Allow  1  lb.  sugar  and  1  gill  of  lemon  juice  for  1  lb.  of  pump- 
kin. Put  the  pumpkin  in  a  deep  dish  in  layers,  with  the  sugar  sprinkled  between, 
and  pour  the  lemon  juice  on  top;  let  stand  2  or  3  days,  and  then  boil  all  together, 
adding  1  cup  water  for  each  3  lbs.  sugar  used,  until  the  pumpkin  is  tender;  then 
let  it  stand  for  1  week,  when  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  until  it  is  quite  thick,  skim, 
and  pour  it  hot  over  the  pumpkin.  A  little  bruised  ginger  and  lemon  rind  thinly 
pared  may  be  boiled  in  the  syrup  to  flavor  the  pumpkin. 

Quince  Preserves. — Take  fine  yellow  quinces,  and  pare,  quarter  and  core  them 
(save  cores  and  skins);  add  just  water  enough  to  cover  the  quinces,  set  them  on 
the  stove  and  simmer  until  soft,  but  not  until  they  begin  to  break;  carefully 
remove  the  fruit,  spread  it  on  dishes  to  cool,  and  into  the  water  in  which  the 
quinces  were  boiled  put  the  cores,  seeds  and  parings;  stew  it  1  hour,  covered 
closely,  and  strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag;  add  1  lb.  sugar  for  each  pint  of  this 
liquor,  boil  it  up,  skim,  and  put  in  the  quinces,  and  boil  gently  25  minutes;  let  it 
stand  in  a  deep  dish,  closely  covered,  24  hours;  then  drain  off  the  syrup,  bring  it 
to  a  boil,  put  in  the  fruit  carefully,  and  boil  ^  hour;  then  take  it  out  as  dry  as 
possible,  spread  it  on  dishes  to  cool,  and  boil  the  syrup  down  thick;  fill  jars  % 
full  of  the  fruit,  and  pour  on  the  syrup.  The  preserves  should  be  of  a  fine  red 
color.  An  equal  amount  of  sweet  apples  can  be  cooked  with  the  quinces  (and 
without  additional  sugar),  and  the  difference  will  hardly  be  noticed. 

Strawberry  Preserves. — Select  the  largest  berries,  and  use  equal  weights  of 
strawberries  and  sugar;  lay  the  fruit  in  deep  dishes,  and  sprinkle  %  the  sugar 
over  them  in  fine  powder;  shake  the  dish  so  that  the  sugar  may  touch  the  under 
part  of  the  fruit.  The  next  day  make  a  syrup  with  the  remainder  of  the  sugar 
and  the  juice  drawn  from  the  strawberries  and  boil  until  it  jellies;  then  put  in 
the  strawberries  carefully,  and  let  them  simmer  nearly  an  hour.  Put  them  care- 
fully in  glass  jars  and  fill  up  with  the  syrup;  there  will  be  more  than  enough  to 
fill  the  jars,  but  after  standing  over  night  the  jars  will  hold  more.  Any  syrup 
remaining  can  be  used  in  making  pudding  sauces,  etc.  Putting  strawberries  up 
whole  thus,  is  much  the  best  way. 

Raspberries  can  be  put  up  the  same  way. 

Green  Tomato  Preserves. — Select  small,  even-sized  tomatoes  for  preserving. 
To  each  3  lbs.  tomatoes  take  2  fresh  lemons;  pare  off  the  yellow  rind  thin,  so  as 
to  leave  the  white  part,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  First  boil  the  tomatoes  in  water 
sufficient  to  cover  them,  until  they  begin  to  get  tender;  add  the  lemon  and  a  few 
peach  leaves  and  powdered  ginger  tied  in  muslin  bags;  boil  together  until  the 
tomatoes  are  tender,  take  them  out  carefully,  strain  the  liquor,  and  add  to  it  1% 
lbs.  sugar  for  each  pound  tomatoes;  put  the  tomatoes  back  into  the  syrup,  and 
boil  until  they  appear  to  be  done.  In  the  course  of  a  week  pour  the  syrup  from 
the  tomatoes,  heat  it  scalding  hot,  and  pour  it  again  on  the  tomatoes;  then  tie  up. 

Ripe  Tomato  Preserves. — For  these  use  for  8  lbs.  tomatoes,  7  lbs.  sugar,  and  the 
juice  of  4  lemons.  Peel  the  tomatoes,  and  let  lemons,  sugar  and  tomatoes  stand 
together  over  night;  drain  off  the  syrup  and  boil  it,  skimming  it  well;  then  put 
in  the  tomatoes  and  allow  them  to  boil  gently  and  steadily  for  20  minutes.  Take 
them  out  with  the  skimmer  and  spread  .them  on  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  down  the 
syrup  until  it  thickens,  put  the  tomatoes  in  jars  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them 
hot. 


JAMS,  JELLIES,  MARMALADES  AND  PRESERVES.  325 

Preserved  Watermelon  and  Cantelope  Rinds.— It  is  a  good  plan  to  keep  these 
rinds  in  a  strong  solution  of  salt  and  water  until  they  are  needed  for  preserving; 
the  salt  can  then  be  removed  by  boiling  them  in  fresh  water.  Now  soak  them 
in  alum  water  (have  it  weak)  for  a  little  while,  and  then  again  boil  in  clear  water 
until  the  alum  taste  disappears.  Allow  for  every  pound  of  rind  2  lbs.  sugar,  and 
make  it  into  a  rich  syrup,  clarifying  it;  then  boil  the  rind  for  1  hour  in  this  syrup. 
Adding  a  little  acid  will  keep  the  syrup  from  graining.  Flavor  with  lemon  if 
desired. 


CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

When  it  is  properly  done  fruits  and  vegetables  canned  at  home  are  both  bet- 
ter and  cheaper  than  those  bought  at  stores.  Select  sound,  fresh  fruit,  and  use 
good  sugar. 

The  first  record  of  canning  appears  in  a  paper  submitted  to  the  English  Soci- 
ety of  Arts  in  1807,  by  Mr.  Saddington;  but  M.  Appert  who  first  put  it  into  use  on 
a  large  scale  (about  1809)  has  generally  received  the  credit  for  its  discovery. 
Canning  in  its  present  form  dates  from  a  patent  granted  in  1823  to  Pierre  Angil- 
bert. 

The  Principles  Involved.— The  principles  underlying  the  process  of  canning  have 
been  quite  generally  misunderstood,  and  successful  fruit  canning  has  been  by  many  people 
supposed  to  depend  upon  the  observance  of  certain  methods  which  would  result  in  the 
expulsion  of  the  air,  and  the  directions  have  been  to  boil  fruit  to  expel  the  air,  to  heat  the 
jars  very  hot,  to  stir  the  contents  that  all  air  bubbles  may  escape,  to  till  to  overflowing,  and 
seal  immediately.  It  is  impossible  by  any  heating  process  to  expel  all  the  air.  However 
full  jars  may  be  filled  with  hot  fruit,  when  cold  there  is  more  or  less  air  at  the  top.  The 
correct  reason  for  heating  fruit  is  not  to  expel  the  air,  but  to  destroy  minute,  living  germs 
(bacteria*)  that  to  a  greater  or  less  extent  are  always  floating  in  the  air,  and  which  alight 
upon  fruit  and  all  other  substances.  These  germs  especially  abound  in  the  atmosphere  in 
the  season  when  fruits  ripen.  Under  favorable  conditions  they  multiply  with  marvelous 
rapidity,  and  in  a  remarkably  short  space  of  time  entirely  change  the  composition  of  fruit 
and  its  juices.  This  disorganization  of  the  fruit  takes  place  to  a  greater  or  less  extent 
according  to  the  readiness  with  which  the  germs  find  access  thereto,  and  the  f  avorableness 
of  the  surrounding  conditions.  Experiment  has  demonstrated,  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt, 
that  most  of  the  bacteria  which  produce  fermentation  (for  there  are  many  varieties  of 
them)  cannot  exist  in  a  temperature  above  140°,  and  nearly  all  die  at  130°  to  135°.  The 
spores,  however,  (corresponding  to  seeds)  are  more  tenacious  of  life  than  the  developed 
bacteria,  but  these  are  all  killed  at  the  temperature  of  boiling  water  if  submitted  to  its 
action  for  some  time,  for  they  do  not  all  die  instantly,  even  at  that  temperature.  It  should 
also  be  said  that  the  bacteria  flourish  best  in  a  neutral  or  alkaline  solution,  while  an  acid 
solution  is  unfavorable  to  them,  and  the  acid  nature  of  many  of  the  fruit  juices  hastens 
their  destruction.  Furthermore  it  is  difficult  to  arrange  so  that  the  central  parts  of  a  can 
shall  receive  the  same  amount  of  heat  as  the  surface,  particularly  in  the  case  of  solidly 
packed  goods,  like  corn  and  beans,  so  that  they  need  to  be  cooked  for  some  time.  These 
being  the  principles  involved,  canning  resolves  itself  simply  into  killing  all  the  bacteria 
and  spores,  and  preventing  any  new  ones  from  obtaining  access  to  the  fruit,  and  the 
simplest  and  most  effectual  method  of  doing  this  is  the  best. 

Fruit  has  often  been  cooked  more  tnan  was  necessary,  but  the  housewife  need  not  be 
troubled  by  having  her  fruit  "go  all  to  pieces"  and  get  "mussy"  when  being  canned,  if  she 
handles  it  intelligently.  Enclosing  air  in  the  can  when  it  is  sealed  will  do  no  harm,  provided 
such  air  has  been  heated  hot  enough  to  kill  all  germs  floating  in  it.  If  the  cans  are  not 
sealed  perfectly  air  tight,  cold,  unsterilized  air  will  in  time  enter  the  can,  carrying  in  living 
germs.  These  are  so  infinitesimally  small  that  they  will  pass  through  the  most  minute 
opening  and  they  will  then  begin  to  propagate,  and  cause  fermentation. 

The  Breaking  of  Jars. — If  fruit  is  put  into  jars  and  the  jars  put  in  a  boiler, 
surrounded  with  water  and  boiled,  the  jars  are  liable  to  crack  if  set  directly  on 
the  metal  bottom.  Breaking  will  be  prevented  by  putting  several  thicknesses  of 
wet  cloth  under  the  jars;  or  use  strips  of  wood,  or  hay  or  straw.  Wrapping  the 
jars  in  hay  or  straw  simply  keeps  them  from  touching  each  other  and  allows  the 
water  to  circulate  around  them  freely. 

A  fruit  jar  for  canning  hot  fruit  need  never  be  heated  by  rolling  in  hot  water 
or  otherwise;  a  cloth  wrung  from  cold  water  and  completely  swathing  the  jar 
will  insure  against  cracking,  if  the  jar  is  perfect,  and  if  it  is  not  it  will  be  likely 
to  crack  in  any  event.  The  cloth  should  be  soft,  and  touch  the  jar  in  every  part, 
and  cover  the  glass  well  at  the  top. 

Utensils. — See  what  we  say  about  "The  Utensils  Used"  in  the  introduction  to 


*  Bacteria  and  microbes  are  terms  applied  to  minute  organisms  which  abound  every- 
where, and  which  play  an  important  part  in  the  economy  of  nature,  causing  both  fermenta- 
tion and  putrefaction.  They  are  rather  more  like  plants  than  animals,  and  so  small  are 
they  that  the  most  powerful  microscope  makes  them  appear  as  little  more  than  dots  and 
rods.  There  are  many  varieties,  but  in  shape  they  take  principally  3  different  forms  which 
may  be  compared  to  a  lead  pencil  (those  having  this  form  are  called  bacilli),  a  ball  (called 
cocws),  and  a  corkscrew  (called  spirilum). 

(326) 


CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  327 

our  previous  chapter  on  "Jams,  Jellies",  etc.,  for  the  action  of  the  acids  in  fruits 
on  tin,  copper,  etc. 

Peaches. — If  peaches  are  dipped  in  scalding  hot  water  for  a  minute  (some  use 
hot  lye)  and  then  into  cold  water,  the  skin  will  readily  slip  off.  If  the  stones  are 
cracked  and  the  kernels  slightly  cooked  in  the  syrup  which  is  poured  over  them 
it  will  be  an  improvement.  The  tastelessness  of  canned  peaches  sold  in  the 
stores  often  results  from  not  doing  this. 

Pare  fruit  with  a  silver  or  aluminum  knife  and  use  forks  of  the  same  mefcals — 
steel  will  discolor  it.  Drop  it  in  cold  water  as  soon  as  pared,  which  will  prevent 
its  turning  dark. 

To  soften  hard  fruits,  like  apples,  pears,  hard  peaches  or  quinces,  steam  them; 
or  cook  in  water  till  tender. 

Using  Sugar. — Although  fruits  can  be  canned  without  sugar  many  fruits  are 
improved  by  the  use  of  more  or  less  of  it;  it  improves  those  fruits  when  canned 
which  require  it  when  fresh.  Fruits  which  are  to  be  used  for  flavoring  ice  creams 
and  water  ices,  are  best  canned  without  sugar.  If  sugar  is  sprinkled  on  small 
fruits,  and  left  on  1  or  2  hours,  they  retain  their  shape  better.  Any  surplus  juice 
from  strawberries  or  other  small  fruits,  can  be  made  into  jelly. 

Strain  syrup  which  is  not  clear  through  fine  flannel. 

Sealing. — When  fruit  is  otherwise  properly  put  up  it  often  fails  to  keep  because 
of  improper  sealing;  covers  should  be  screwed  on  reasonably  tight  at  first,  and 
tightened  often  till  quite  cold;  the  glass  shrinks  by  cooling,  and  the  covers  should 
be  tightened  up  on  it  as  it  shrinks.  Be  sure  the  rubbers  used  are  close  fitting 
and  firm. 

If  corks  and  wax  are  used  in  sealing,  soak  the  corks  in  hot  water;  dry  both 
cork  and  the  edge  of  the  bottle  with  a  hot  cloth  before  applying  the  wax,  to 
insure  close  adherence  to  the  glass. 

Parafine  paper  tied  or  pasted  over  heated  fruit  will  keep  it  sweet  for  quite  a 
time  in  summer,  and  for  weeks  in  cold  weather.  It  is  also  recommended  for 
covering  jellies  and  jams,  as  it  is  impervious  to  air  and  is  water-proof. 

Keeping. — All  goods  canned  in  glass  (and  that  is  the  safest  and  most  reliable 
thing  to  use)  should  be  kept  in  the  dark,  or  the  cans  wrapped  in  paper,  as  the 
light  will  bleach  and  injure  many  fruits,  especially  tomatoes  and  strawberries. 
Canned  fruit  and  vegetables  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  and  dark  place. 

The  flavor  of  canned  fruit  is  improved  if  it  is  opened  some  time  before  it  is 
needed  for  use,  and  allowed  to  aerate. 

Vegetables  intended  for  canning  should  be  as  fresh  as  possible,  as  wilted 
vegetables  will  not  can  well. 

The  Food  Value  of  Canned  Goods.— A  careful  analysis  of  the  canned  goods  sold  in  the 
market  has  shown  that  they  should  he  regarded  mainly  in  the  light  of  an  expensive  luxury. 
This  is  owing  principally  to  the  large  amount  of  water  which  they  contain.  In  such  articles 
as  corn  and  string  beans  a  test  has  shown  that  the  contents  of  the  can  consists  of  35%  to  95% 
of  water,  so  that  if  one  bought  100  lbs.  of  these  goods  he  would  buy  65  lbs.  to  95  lbs.  of  water, 
and  only  5  lbs.  to  35  lbs.  of  dry  food  material.  For  this  reason  10  or  25  cents  invested  in 
flour,  cornmeal  or  meat,  will  get  as  much  actual  food  materialfor  the  body  as  II  or  $2  will  if 
invested  in  canned  goods.  Poor  people,  and  those  of  moderate  means,  should  understand 
these  things.  When,  however,  the  goods  are  canned  at  home  the  food  is,  of  course,  bought 
uncanned,  and  as  cheaply  as  it  could  be  obtained  in  any  form.  If  properly  put  up  canned 
goods  are  wholesome. 

A  Word  of  Caution.— Sometimes  goods  which  are  put  up  in  tin  cans,  and  which  are  all 
right  when  opened,  are  allowed  to  stand  afterwards  exposed  to  the  air,  and  then  the  acid 
they  contain  will  at  once  attack  the  lead  in  the  tin,  producing  poisonous  compounds  of 
lead.  For  this  reason  the  contents  of  tin  cans  should  be  emptied  out  at  once  on  being 
opened     So  important  is  this  that  it  should  be  understood  by  every  one. 

Salicylic  acid  has-  been  often  used  in  canning  fruits,  and  many  agents  have  passed 
through  the  country  selling  recipes  or  preparations  guaranteed  to  preserve  fruit,  the  active 
ingredient  of  which  was  salicylic  or  some  form  of  sulphurous  acid.  These  should  never  be 
used.  They  may  injure  the  health  of  the  consumer,  they  impair  the  taste  of  the  fruit,  and 
their  use  is  wholly  unnecessary,  as  fruit  is  easily  canned  successfully  without  them.  Don't 
buy  or  use  such  preparations. 

Canning  Berries,  etc. — To  can  small  fruit,  or  those  which  require  little  cook- 
ing, such  as  berries,  peaches,  etc.,  allow  for  every  quart  jar  1  teacup  of  sugar, 
more  or  less  according  to  the  acidity  of  the  fruit.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  a  very 
little  water,,  put  the  fruit  in  it  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point;  swathe  each  jar 
with  a  wet  cloth,  fill  it  with  fruit,  and  seal  it  at  once  while  hot. 

Canning  Apples. — Select  choice  apples,  pare,  quarter,  core,  and  let  simmer 


328  CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

merely  until  tender;  then  drain  them  out,  put  into  hot  syrup,  boil  2  or  3  minutes, 
and  fill  hot  into  jars.  The  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon  to  4  lbs.  apples  imparts  a 
pleasant  flavor.  Using  1  lb.  of  quinces  or  1  good-sized  pineapple  to  4  lbs.  apples 
also  makes  a  pleasant  combination. 

Canning  Currants. — Use  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit;  let  the  fruit  stand  2  or  3 
hours  covered  with  the  sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle;  then  bring  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point,  fill  into  jars  and  seal. 

Raspberries  are  nice  put  up  with  currant  juice;  allow  1  cup  currant  juice  and 
1  cup  sugar  to  each  quart  of  raspberries,  add  the  juice  and  sugar  to  the  berries, 
bring  to  the  boil,  and  put  in  jars.  Red  raspberries  and  red  currants  are  also 
very  nice  canned  together  half  and  half. 

Dewberries  and  Elderberries  can  be  put  up  like  currants,  but  allow  %  lb- 
sugar  for  1  lb.  fruit. 

Canning  Damsons. — Allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit;  place  alternate  layers  of 
sugar  and  plums  in  a  preserving  kettle,  first  pricking  the  plums  to  prevent  their 
breaking;  let  stand  1  or  2  hours  at  the  back  of  the  stove,  then  heat  gradually 
just  to  the  boiling  point;  fill  into  jars  and  seal. 

Greengages  or  Plums  of  any  kind,  can  be  canned  the  same  way,  but  allow  % 
lb.  of  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit.  They  can  be  allowed  to  stand  in  alternate  layers  of 
plums  and  sugar  over  night  if  desired;  the  next  day  bring  to  a  boil  and  can. 

Gooseberries. — These  when  ripe  can  be  put  up  like  currants,  allowing  %  lb. 
sugar  to  1  lb.  gooseberries.  Green  gooseberries  are  best  put  up  by  the  "Cold 
Process"  (which  see). 

Canning  Pears. — Steam  them  until  tender  in  a  steamer;  then  put  them  into 
jars  and  fill  with  boiling  syrup,  holding  in  solution  for  each  jar  %  teaspoon  of 
tartaric  acid  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  This  acid  gives  a  piquant  flavor  to  the 
otherwise  sweet  or  insipid  fruit,  and  is  harmless. 

Rhubarb. — The  simplest  and  best  method  for  this  is  by  the  "Cold  Process" 
(which  see). 

Canning  Quinces. — Pare,  quarter,  core,  and  let  them  simmer  merely,  in  water 
until  tender;  then  drain  them  from  the  water,  put  them  into  the  hot  syrup  (allow 
%  lb.  sugar  and  1  cup  water  to  1  lb.  quinces),  let  simmer  10  minutes  (at  170°)  and 
put  into  jars.    The  core,  seeds  and  parings  can  be  made  into  jelly. 

Canning  Grapes. — Grapes  may  be  canned  whole  without  the  usual  process  of 
scalding.  Heat  the  jars  very  hot  by  steaming  them  over  water  brought  gradually 
from  tepid  to  boiling  heat,  or  by  placing  them  in  the  oven  on  several  thicknesses 
of  paper,  and  increasing  the  heat  gradually.  Wring  a  towel  from  hot  water  and 
swathe  the  cans;  then  fill  them  with  the  cold  grapes,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
seal,  and  let  stand  10  minutes;  then  take  off  the  covers,  pour  off  the  water,  and 
cover  with  boiling  syrup  sweetened  to  taste,  and  seal.  The  skins  will  not  break, 
and  the  fruit  will  have  a  very  different  flavor  from  seeded  grapes. 

Blackberries,  Huckleberries,  and  Raspberries  may  be  canned  as  directed  for 
grapes. 

Strawberries. — To  preserve  the  color  and  flavor  of  strawberries  requires  care. 
They  should  go  directly  from  the  field  or  garden  to  the  preserving  kettle — even 
washing  them  injures  their  keeping  qualities.  Use  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit. 
Place  alternate  layers  of  sugar  and  berries  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  let  stand  1 
hour;  then  heat  slowly  just  to  the  boiling  point;  fill  into  jars  and  seal  hot. 

Canning  Apricots. — Pack  them  whole  into  the  jars,  packing  them  full,  and  as 
closely  as  possible  without  mashing  or  pressing  the  fruit;  fill  the  jars  with  syrup 
up  to  the  shoulder,  put  on  the  cover  loosely,  and  set  them  in  a  wash-boiler  so 


CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  329 

that  they  do  not  touch  the  metal  bottom,  as  directed  in  the  introduction  to  this 
chapter,  and  fill  water  around  them  up  to  their  necks;  put  on  the  cover,  bring  it 
to  a  boil,  and  keep  it  boiling  12  to  15  minutes,  so  that  the  fruit  in  the  jar  may  be 
heated  clear  through;  then  remove  from  the  stove,  fill  1  jar  at  a  time  with  hot 
syrup  (have  some  surplus  syrup  ready,  and  bring  it  to  a  boil  at  the  same  time  as 
the  fruit),  screw  on  the  cover,  set  it  back  in  the  water,  and  let  all  cool  together. 
Practically  this  is  a  very  good  method,  as  it  kills  all  germs,  without  over-cooking 
the  fruit. 

Cherries,  Plums,  Nectarines  and  Strawberries  can  be  put  up  as  directed  for 
apricots. 

Peaches  can  be  put  up  the  same  way,  but  they  should  be  pared  and  halved; 
if  2  or  3  kernels  are  put  in  the  center  of  each  jar  they  will  flavor  all  the  fruit  in 
it;  and  this  should  be  done,  as  they  lack  flavor  without  the  kernels. 

Pineapples  can  be  put  up  the  same  way,  but  they  should  be  first  pared  and 
sliced,  using  a  silver  knife. 

Canned  Corn. — Select  young  tender  ears,  cut  the  corn  carefully  from  the  cob 
with  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  scrape  the  cob  with  the  back  of  the  knife  to  secure 
the  milk.  Dissolve  1  oz.  of  druggist's  pure  tartaric  acid  in  a  large  teacup  of  warm 
water,  and  use  %  of  this  for  every  4  quarts  of  corn;  to  be  exact,  measure  by  table- 
spoons. Stir  the  required  amount  into  the  corn,  add  2  teacups  of  hot  water,  and 
cook  15  minutes.  Stir  often  and  thoroughly  while  cooking;  then  can  in  the  usual 
way.  On  opening  for  use,  to  each  quart  add  a  level  teaspoon  of  soda  (to  neutral- 
ize the  acid),  cook  5  minutes  and  season  to  taste,  being  careful  to  add  a  little 
sugar.  Should  the  corn  turn  yellow  on  adding  the  soda,  add  a  very  little  more  acid 
water  (some  may  be  kept  corked);  should  there  be  a  slight  acid  taste,  put  in  a 
little  more  soda.     If  the  acid  is  impure,  or  too  much  is  used,  crystals  will  form. 

No.  2. — Another  method  is  to  crowd  corn  cut  from  the  cob  into  glass  jars,  seal 
moderately  tight,  set  them  into  cold  water,  bring  it  to  the  boil,  and  then  boil  3 
hours;  then  loosen  the  covers  an  instant,  seal  again  and  cook  1  hour;  then  remove 
from  the  fire.  Tighten  the  covers  occasionally  as  the  cans  cool.  Corn  put  up 
this  way  keeps  perfectly,  but  it  is  not  as  fresh  as  that  put  up  with  acid,  and  the 
process  is  more  tedious.  In  serving  this  corn  all  that  it  needs  is  to  get  it  thor- 
oughly hot,  and  add  a  little  milk  or  cream,  butter  and  seasoning;  further  cook- 
ing toughens  it. 

Canned  Peas. — Shell  them,  and  pack  closely  in  cans;  add  to  each  quart  1  tea- 
spoon salt  and  1  teaspoon  sugar  dissolved  in  a  little  water;  fill  them  full  of  water, 
put  on  the  covers,  and  proceed  as  directed  for  apricots,  but  keep  the  water  boil- 
ing 3  hours;  fill  hot  water  into  the  boiler,  as  that  in  it  cooks  away;  when  done, 
screw  down  the  tops,  and  let  them  cool. 

Asparagus. — Put  it  up  as  directed  above  for  peas,  but  omit  the  sugar  and  salt. 

Lima  Beans. — Treat  as  directed  above  for  peas,  but  omit  the  sugar.  • 

String  Beans. — Either  green  or  cream  beans  can  be  put  up  as  directed  above 
for  peas.  String  them,  cut  into  inch  lengths,  put  into  cans,  add  to  each  quart  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  continue  as  directed  for  peas. 

No.  2.— String  the  beans  and  remove  the  stem  end.  Boil  them  in  water  until 
about  half  tender,  then  to  each  4  quarts  of  beans  add  %  pint  of  salt;  boil  10  min- 
utes, put  in  cans,  cover  well  with  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled  and  seal. 
To  use,  drain,  cook  in  a  little  water,  and  season  to  taste  with  cream  or  butter.  A 
very  little  white  sugar  added  to  the  seasoning  is  an  improvement. 

No.  3. — Another  method  is  to  boil  the  beans  in  slightly  salted  water  until  they 


330  CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

are  tender,  but  not  until  they  break;  then  drain  quickly  and  can,  covering  them 
with  weak  boiling  vinegar,  or  vinegar  and  water.  To  use,  drain  them,  soak  in 
warm  water  15  minutes,  heat  5  minutes,  and  season  with  butter  and  a  little  milk, 
thickened  slightly  with  corn-starch. 

Canning  Cabbage. — Slice  cabbage  when  it  comes  from  the  pits  in  the  spring, 
cook  it  in  very  little  water,  season  with  salt,  and  can  boiling  hot. 

Canning  Carrots. — Boil  carrots  till  tender,  peel  and  slice,  reheat  them  in  a 
steamer  and  can,  covering  them  with  weak  boiling  vinegar,  or  vinegar  and  water. 
Use  them  as  a  garnish,  or  season  with  cream  for  a  salad. 

Canned  Beets. — Chop  beets  while  tender,  season  with  sweetened  vinegar,  and 
can  hot.    They  make  delicious  salad. 

Pumpkin. — Scrape  out  the  seeds  after  cutting  it  up,  and  either  stew  or  bake 
it  until  tender,  without  paring,  as  the  sweetest  part  lies  next  the  rind;  when 
baked,  remove  the  rind,  mash  with  the  potato  masher,  put  it  in  jars  and  seal 
while  hot.    Add  no  seasoning  until  opened  for  use. 

Canned  Succotash.  — Put  lima  beans  in  salted  water,  and  cook  nearly  enough 
for  table  use;  take  green  corn  on  the  cob,  and  boil  until  when  a  grain  is  cut  no 
milk  flows,  then  cut  it  from  the  cob,  and  mix  with  the  lima  beans,  using  1  meas- 
ure of  beans  to  2  measures  of  corn;  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  bring  to  a 
boil,  and  fill  them  into  glass  jars.  String  beans  can  be  used  instead  of  lima 
beans,  but  cut  them  into  1  inch  lengths.  To  use  this  succotash,  drain  off  the 
liquor  and  add  butter,  milk  and  flour  the  same  as  for  fresh  succotash. 

Canned  Tomatoes  (Whole). — Select  good  small  ones,  rejecting  all  that  are  soft 
or  spotted;  put  them  whole  into  the  cans  without  peeling,  fill  with  cold  water, 
and -proceed  as  directed  for  peas,  but  omit  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  boil  only  % 
hour. 

Tomatoes  No.  2. — Select  the  tomatoes  before  they  are  ripe.  As  soon  as  they 
are  gathered  from  the  vines  remove  the  skins,  cut  them  in  small  pieces  and  drain; 
boil  them  20  minutes,  stirring  often,  and  adding  saltfreely  while  boiling.  Can  in 
the  usual  way.  One  can  determine  by  tasting  just  how  much  salt  can  be  used. 
They  are  less  likely  to  sour  when  salt  is  used. 

Tomatoes  No.  3. — Scald  and  skin  them;  bring  them  gradually  to  a  boil  in  the 
preserving  kettle,  and  let  them  simmer  merely  %  hour  (at  170°);  put  into  the 
cans  while  hot,  and  seal. 

Canned  Tomatoes  are  nice  stewed  and  baked  in  alternate  layers  with  boiled 
rice  or  boiled  macaroni,  seasoning  the  layers  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Canned  Tomatoes  with  Corn.  —  Boil  the  corn  on  the  cob  the  same  as  for  table 
use,  and  cut  it  off  while  hot;  have  tomatoes  skinned  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth 
pulp;  put  2  parts  tomatoes  to  1  part  corn,  salt  as  for  the  table,  bring  to  a  hard  boil, 
andean  quickly. 

Canned  Beans  with  Acid. — Cook  the  beans  until  done;  then  add  for  each  pint 
of  beans  1  tablespoon  of  a  solution  made  by  dissolving  1)^  oz.  tartaric  acid  in  1 
cup  water;  can  at  once  while  hot.  To  use,  to  each  quart  of  beans  add  %  teaspoon 
of  soda  to  neutralize  the  acid,  and  let  stand  a  little  while  before  cooking.  Then 
season  and  serve.  If  there  is  a  slightly  acid  taste  use  a  little  more  soda;  if  too 
much  soda  is  used  add  a  trifle  more  acid. 

Peas  can  be  put  up  the  same  way. 

Fruit  Juices. — Select  the  best  fruit,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  strain  it  through 
fine  muslin  (4  thicknesses)  or  through  flannel  cloth,  add  sugar  in  the  proportion 
of  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  quart  of  juice,  and  bring  to  a  boil;  use  an  earthen  or  porce- 


CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC  331 

Iain-lined  kettle,  remove  all  scum  which  rises,  and  put  while  hot  into  small  bot- 
tles, and  keep  closely  corked;  or  it  can  be  kept  in  Mason  jars. 

When  canning  fruit  the  juice  remaining  can  be  bottled  in  the  same  manner. 
For  pudding  sauces,  etc.,  these  can  be  used  in  place  of  wines  and  intoxicating 
liquors,  as  we  have  elsewhere  stated  in  speaking  of  intoxicating  liquors;  they  can 
also  be  used  for  water  ices  and  summer  beverages. 

Fruit  juices  can  also  be  put  up  without  the  use  of  sugar;  strain  the  juice,  and 
fill  it  into  the  bottles  to  the  bottom  of  the  neck  only;  then  cork  securely,  wire 
the  corks  down,  and  set  the  bottles  into  water  up  to  the  neck;  let  it  boii 
3^  hour,  then  take  from  the  stove,  let  them  stand  in  the  water  till  cold,  and  seal 
the  corks.  Juices  put  up  this  way  can  be  used  like  fresh  juices,  but  when 
exposed  to  the  air  they  spoil  quickly,  so  that  all  must  be  used  at  once  when  a 
bottle  is  opened.    Small  bottles  are  therefore  best. 

CANNING  WITHOUT  SYRUP. 

Fruit  can  be  put  up  much  as  directed  for  apricots,  but  without  using  any 
syrup.  The  fruit  should  not  be  very  ripe  when  picked;  fill  wide-mouthed  bottles 
as  full  as  they  will  hold,  cork  and  seal  each  one  tightly,  surround  it  with  water 
and  boil  as  there  directed;  then  remove  from  the  stove  and  let  them  cool  stand- 
ing in  the  water,  tightening  the  covers  occasionally.  It  will  be  found  to  nearly 
equal  fresh  fruit  when  opened,  and  can  be  used  like  it.  Apricots,  cherries,  goose- 
berries, sliced  pineapple,  plums,  and  other  fruit  can  be  put  up  thus. 

CANNING  BY  THE  COLD  PROCESS. 

Many  fruits  may  be  canned  by  what  is  termed  the  "Cold  Process."  It  is  best 
to  boil  the  water  used  for  this  purpose,  to  kill  all  germs  in  it;  then  let  it  get  cold 
before  using  it. 

Green  Currants  and  Green  Gooseberries. — To  can  them  in  this  manner  fill 
jars  with  the  green  fruit,  shaking  it  well  together;  fill  with  water  which  has  been 
boiled  and  allowed  to  get  perfectly  cold;  seal,  wrap  each  jar  in  paper,  and  set  in 
a  cool  place. 

Grapes  (Cold  Process). — Remove  them  from  the  large  clusters  in  smaller  clus- 
ters of  2  or  3,  being  very  careful  indeed  that  the  stem  of  each  grape  is  in  no  wise 
loosened  from  the  fruit;  fill  the  jars  with  these  clusters,  or  with  the  single  grapes 
if  preferred,  with  the  stems  left  entire  or  partly  clipped;  when  full  (do  not  shake, 
as  the  success  depends  upon  the  stem  adhering  to  the  fruit)  immerse  the  jar  in  a 
pail  of  water  which  has  been  boiled  and  become  cold;  when  the  jar  is  quite  full 
of  water  screw  on  the  top  while  under  water. 

Cherries  (Cold  Process). — The  stems  of  cherries  may  be  clipped  and  the  fruit 
canned  in  the  same  manner  as  grapes.  It  is  more  difficult  to  prepare  cherries,  as 
they  loosen  so  easily  from  the  stem. 

Canned  Peaches, {Cold Process). — Pare  and  halve  the  fruit,  fill  a  jar  with  it, 
packing  closely,  and  fill  the  jar  with  water  as  for  currants;  cover  and  let  stand 
6  or  8  hours  for  the  water  to  work  its  way  into  all  openings;  then  fill  in  water  to 
take  the  place  of  that  which  has  worked  in,  and  seal.  Thus  put  up  all  the  fresh- 
ness and  flavor  of  the  fruit  is  retained.  Instead  of  the  water  cold  syrup  can  be 
used,  but  the  natural  flavor  is  best  retained  without  any  sweetening. 

Canned  Rhubarb  (Cold  Process). — Take  fresh  green  stalks,  peel  and  slice  as  if 
for  pies;  then  take  fruit  jars  and  pack  this  in  up  to  the  necks,  and  then  fill  the 
jars  with  cold  water;  now  seal  up  air  tight  and  it  will  keep  any  number  of  months. 
To  see  if  the  jars  are  tight  set  them  bottom  up  for  a  little  while  and  see  if  any 


332  CANNING  FRUITS,  VEGETABLES,  ETC. 

water  escapes;  if  not,  they  are  all  right.  To  use  it,  pour  off  the  water  and  use 
like  fresh  pieplant;  but  to  sweeten  it,  not  over  )^  the  sugar  ordinarily  used  will 
be  needed,  as  the  water  will  extract  some  of  the  acid.  The  method  is  simple,  and 
it  will  be  equal  to  fresh  pieplant  when  used. 

Strawberries  Canned  Cold. — To  each  lb.  of  fruit  allow  1  lb.  sugar;  dissolve  the 
sugar  in  the  least  possible  quantity  of  water,  put  in  the  strawberries  and  let  both 
boil  up  together  once  thoroughly;  then  put  the  fruit  and  syrup  in  deep  earthen 
pie  plates,  and  let  stand  in  the  sun  24  hours  covered  with  mosquito  netting;  or, 
dry  it  in  a  cool  oven;  then  can  cold.     Delicious. 

Currants  and  other  small  fruit  may  be  canned  the  same  way. 

CANNING  MEAT. 

Do  not  leave  meat  designed  for  canning  exposed  to  the  air;  as  soon  as  it  is 
thoroughly  cold,  after  killing,  prepare  it  by  selecting  pieces  free  from  blood. 
Remove  all  bone,  gristle  and  inferior  pieces,  and  cut  it  into  suitable  pieces  for 
the  table,  having  them  rather  thin  than  otherwise.  On  the  bottom  of  a  Mason's 
self -sealing  can  put  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  pulverized,  sifted  saltpetre; 
then  put  in  a  layer  of  meat,  and  on  that  sprinkle  more  of  the  same  seasoning,  and 
so  on  alternately,  filling  the  can  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top,  pressing  the  layers 
down  firmly  while  packing  that  there  may  be  no  air  spaces.  On  the  top  layer 
use  the  seasoning  more  freely.  Fill  the  can  with  lard,  heated  sufficiently  to  run 
smoothly.  Cover  with  a  paper  bag,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  It  will  keep 
from  January  to  July. 

No.  2. — Take  fresh  beef  and  boil  it  until  all  the  bones  will  come  out;  then  take 
the  meat  out,  remove  the  bones  and  cut  in  short  lengths,  returning  it  to  the 
liquor;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  mace,  cloves  and  chopped  onions, 
if  liked.  Take  the  meat  from  the  liquor  with  a  wire  dipper,  fill  it  into  the  cans, 
pour  on  the  boiling  liquor,  and  seal  tight.    Keep  in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

Canned  Corn  Beef. — Before  the  brine  sours  or  changes  in  the  least,  boil  the 
meat  till  tender;  then  remove  the  bone,  gristle,  and  white  fiber,  return  to  the 
boiling  liquor,  and  when  hot  can  it,  pressing  it  compactly;  cover  it  well  with  the 
boiling  hot  liquor  and  seal.  Keep  the  cans  in  paper  bags  in  a  cool  cellar.  Examine 
on  the  approach  of  warm  weather,  and  if  on  shaking  the  cans  any  bubbles  arise, 
open  such  cans  and  use  the  meat  at  once. 

Pickled  Tongue  is  also  very  nice  put  up  in  this  way. 

Mince  and  Sausage  Meat  must  be  put  into  cans  while  at  boiling  heat,  if 

thus  preserved. 

Preserving  Meats.— All  the  resources  of  science  have  been  called  linto  play  to  devise 
means  to  preserve  meat  so  that  the  surplus  of  one  region  can  be  transported  unimpared  to 
supply  the  needs  of  another  region  less  bountifully  supplied.  The  4  most  important  methods 
which  have  been  devised  are  by  drying,  by  cold,  by  heating  and  excluding  the  air,  and  by 
the  use  of  antiseptics.  They  are  all  bascdon  killing  or  preventing  the  development  of  the 
germs  (bacteria)  which  cause  putrefaction.  Drying  preserves  meat  and  vegetables  because 
the  low  forms  of  life,  as  well  as  the  higher,  cannot  develop  without  a  certain  amount  of 
moisture,  but  the  flavor  and  other  qualities  of  meat  are  not  improved  by  drying.  Freezing 
preserves  the  meat  because  cold  checks  the  growth  of  all  micro-organisms.  In  canning,  the 
usual  method  is  to  heat  the  article  enough  to  kill  all  the  germs,  and  then  seal  it  up  so 
tightly  that  no  more  can  enter.  Antiseptics,  like  salt,  sugar,  etc.,  act  by  preventing  the 
development  of  the  micro-organisms  which  cause  decay.  The  action  of  salt  is  to  draw  the 
juices  and  many  of  the  nutritive  elements  out  of  the  meat,  and  when  they  are  once  drawn 
out  they  can  never  be  restored  again,  so  that  salted  meat  is  never  as  nutritious  as  fresh 
meat.  The  salt  also  hardens  the  fiber  of  the  meat  and  makes  it  less  digestible.  Salt  has  a 
whitening  effect  on  the  meat  also,  and  to  counteract  that,  saltpetre  is  often  added,  but  the 
latter  tends  to  make  the  meat  hard,  dry  and  indigestible,  and  therefore  a  little  cochineal 
is  sometimes  used  for  coloring  instead. 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS,  AND  VINEGAR. 

The  custom  of  pickling  seems  to  have  been  practised  since  very  early  times, 
the  ancient  Greeks  and  Romans  highly  esteeming  their  pickles  made  from  herbs, 
roots  and  vegetables  preserved  in  vinegar. 

All  vegetables  and  fruits  used  for  pickles  should  be  sound,  and  not  over  ripe. 
Fruits  can  be  pickled  as  well  as  vegetables. 

The  Vinegar. — Use  only  pure  vinegar  in  making  pickles,  catsups  and  sauces. 
Cider  vinegar  is  usually  considered  about  the  best  for  this  purpose.  As  vinegar 
is  weakened  by  boiling,  it  should  be  merely  brought  to  the  scalding  point,  and 
then  poured  on  the  pickles;  if  not  scalded,  but  put  on  raw,  however,  it  will  not 
keep  well.  Have  the  vinegar  strong  or  the  pickles  will  seem  "insipid."  If  the 
strength  of  the  vinegar  is  lost,  replace  it  with  some  which  is  strong,  and  boiling 
hot  when  poured  on.  Adding  a  little  horseradish  will  help  to  keep  up  the  life  of 
the  vinegar,  but  use  it  sparingly;  1  or  2  clusters  of  green  grapes  serve  the  same 
purpose.  To  heat  vinegar  a  good  way  is  to  put  it  in  a  stone  jar  in  a  sauce-pan,  with 
hot  water  around  it,  and  as  soon  as  it  reaches  the  boiling  point  remove  from  the 
fire,  as  boiling  reduces  both  its  strength  and  flavor. 

Vinegar  can  be  kept  from  molding  by  putting  into  each  jar  some  horseradish, 
mustard  seed  or  nasturtiums,  but  use  only  a  little. 

Using  Alum  and  Parboiling. — If  articles  to  be  pickled  are  parboiled  or  scalded 
they  will  absorb  the  vinegar  more  readily,  but  they  will  not  be  so  crisp.  Cucum- 
bers and  gherkins  are  made  crisp  and  green  by  dissolving  a  small  lump  of  alum 
in  the  vinegar  the  first  time  it  is  scalded,  but  it  is  injurious  to  the  health  if  too 
much  is  used. 

Coloring  Pickles. — A  green  color  can  easily  be  obtained,  if  desired,  by  soaking 
cabbage  or  vine  leaves  or  the  leaves  of  parsley  or  spinach  in  the  vinegar,  and  the 
color  thus  obtained  is  harmless.  Or  to  have  cucumbers  green  put  them  into  cold 
vinegar  and  heat  them  slowly  over  a  moderate  fire  until  they  become  green. 

A  Caution.— Bright  green  pickles  have  been  popular,  merely  because  of  their  looks. 
To  gratify  this  taste  pickles  have  been  boiled  in  copper  kettles  with  vinegar  and  a 
little  alum.  The  acetic  acid  of  the  vinegar  acts  on  the  copper  and  forms  acetate  of  copper, 
which  is  commonly  and  well  known  as  verdigris.  This  penetrates  the  pickles  and  colors 
them  green,  but  it  should  be  understood  that  this  acetate  of  copper  (verdigris)  is  really  a 
most  active  poison,  and  that  pickles  thus  prepared  are  poisonous  and  unhealthy. 

Spices. — Use  spices  judiciously  so  that  all  combine  into  a  pleasant  flavor  with- 
out having  one  flavor  predominate  over  all  the  others,  and  do  not  flavor  so 
strongly  as  to  entirely  disguise  the  original  flavor  of  the  article  pickled. 

.  Brine. — The  rule  for  the  brine  used  for  pickles  is  "strong  enough  to  float  an 
egg."    The  proportion  is  about  1  quart  of  water  to  1  cup  salt. 

The  Kettle,  etc. — Use  porcelain-lined  or  granite  kettles  for  putting  up  pickles. 
The  acid  in  vinegar  will  act  on  the  lead  in  tinned  vessels,  and  produce  the 
poisonous  acetate  of  lead,  and  in  brass  or  copper  vessels  it  produces  the  poisonous 
acetate  of  copper  {verdigris).  As  the  mild  acids,  however,  do  not  affect  aluminum, 
utensils  made  of  that  metal  are  excellent  to  use  for  this  purpose. 

Use  wooden  spoons  instead  of  metal  spoons  or  forks.  If,  however,  any  mental 
spoons  or  forks  are  used  have  them  either  of  aluminum  or  silver. 

Keeping 'Pickles. — Pickles  will  become  soft  and  spoil  if  exposed  to  the  air,  so 
that  they  should  always  be  kept  covered  with  vinegar;  there  should  be  2  or  3  inches 
of  vinegar  over  them;  keep  the  jar  tightly  closed.  If  pickles  show  signs  at  any  time 
of  becoming  moldy  or  soft,  pour  off  the  vinegar,  scald  it,  skim,  add  to  each  gallon 
of  vinegar  1  handful  of  sugar,  and  pour  it  back  on  again,  boiling  hot.  The  sugar 
will  form  fresh  vinegar  and  so  strengthen  the  old.  If  pickles  are  put  in  jars  and 
sealed  while  hot,  they  keep  better  than  in  any  other  way. 

Pickles  should  be  kept  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  but  they  will  be  spoiled  if  they 
freeze.  They  are  best  kept  in  stone  or  glass;  never  use  glazed  jars,  as  the  salt 
and  vinegar  will  dissolve  out  the  little  lead  which  is  used  in  glazing,  and  form 
the  poisonous  acetate  of  lead.  No  vessel  which  has  held  grease  should  be  used 
for  keeping  pickles. 

(333) 


334  PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR. 

Pickles  are  an  agreeable  addition  to  our  food,  but  they  should  be  eaten  spar- 
ingly, as  they  are  not  easily  digested. 


SOUR   PICKLES. 

Artichokes. — Take  a  strong  brine  and  boil  the  artichokes  in  it  2  or  3  minutes; 
then  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and  put  in  jars  when  cold.  Boil  some  nutmeg,  mace 
and  ginger  in  enough  vinegar  to  cover;  pour  it  on  hot  and  seal  the  jars. 

Beans. — String  the  beans  and  boil  until  tender,  putting  a  little  salt  in  the 
water;  then  drain  in  a  colander,  and  when  cold  put  in  jars;  add  1  tablespoon  of 
horseradish,  sprinkle  with  cayenne  pepper  lightly,  and  cover  with  good  cider  vin- 
egar. 

Pickled  Beets. — (1)  Wash  them,  and  be  careful  not  to  prick  the  outside  skin 
or  they  will  lose  their  beautiful  color;  put  them  into  boiling  water,  simmer  gently 
until  %  done  (about  1%  hours),  take  out  and  cool;  then  peel,  and  cut  into  slices 
~%  inch  thick.  Take  vinegar  enough  to  cover,  add  2  oz.  allspice,  and  2  oz.  whole 
pepper  to  each  gallon,  and  boil  5  minutes;  when  cold,  pour  it  on  the  beets,  and 
cover  closely.  They  can  be  used  in  a  week.  (2)  Another  way  is  to  take  4  or  5 
medium-sized  beets,  boil  them  soft,  put  in  cold  water,  rub  off  the  skins,  wipe  dry, 
cut  in  pieces,  and  chop  finely  in  the  chopping  bowl;  add,  while  chopping,  an  even 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  sugar,  a  saltspoon  each  of  mustard  and  pepper;  pack  into 
a  salad  dish  or  bowl;  cover  with  cold  vinegar,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  next  day 
before  serving. 

Carrots  may  be  pickled  in  the  same  manner.  Pew  people  know  how  good  car- 
rots are  when  pickled. 

Pickled  Cabbage. — Slice  the  cabbage  fine,  and  cover  with  boiling  water;  drain 
off  the  water  when  cold.  Season  with  red  and  black  pepper  in  equal  parts,  salt, 
cinnamon  and  cloves,  and  grated  horseradish.     Cover  with  strong  vinegar. 

Pickled  Cauliflower. — Break  the  heads  into  small  pieces,  and  boil  in  salt  and 
water  10  or  15  minutes;  then  drain  carefully,  and  place  in  jars  when  cold;  tie 
white  mustard,  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper  in  a  bag,  put  it  in  vinegar,  and  scald; 
take  the  vinegar  from  the  stove,  take  out  the  bag,  and  to  each  quart  add  %  CUP 
sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  of  mustard;  pour  it  over  the  cauliflower,  and  cover  tightly. 

Celery  Pickles. — Take  %  gallon  of  chopped  celery,  the  same  of  chopped  white 
cabbage,  4  oz.  white  mustard  seed,  3^  oz.  ginger  root,  2  tablespoons  salt,  %  oz- 
turmeric,  %  cup  sugar,  %  gallon  cider  vinegar;  let  all  simmer  gently  until  celery 
and  cabbage  are  tender;  then  put  in  jars. 

Cherry  Pickles. — Take  large,  ripe  cherries,  leave  the  stems  on,  and  put  them 
whole  into  cans,  filling  them  only  %  full;  take  good  cider  vinegar,  fill  the  cans 
with  it  cold,  and  seal,  without  heating. 

Pickled  Corn. — Select  good  corn  and  boil  it  on  the  cob;  when  done  let  it  cool, 
and  cut  it  from  the  cob;  then  pack  it  in  a  jar  in  alternate  layers  of  salt  and  corn, 
having  salt  at  the  bottom  and  on  top;  then  spread  on  a  cloth,  lay  on  a  board,  and 
weight  it  down.  For  use;  soak  it  till  fresh  in  water,  and  cook  or  heat  it.  Many 
like  it  better  this  way  than  when  canned. 

String  Beans  and  Lima  Beans  can  also  be  packed  in  salt;  after  being  in  the 
salt  2  days  they  can  be  used  at  any  time,  and  can  be  cooked  like  green  vegetables, 
but  while  boiling,  change  the  water  1  or  2  times.  They  will  be  like  fresh  vegetables. 

Cucumber  Pickles.— Cut  cucumbers  from  the  vine  instead  of  twisting  or 
pulling  them  off,  as  that  injures  them.    Fill  a  jar  with  cucumbers,  and  pour 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR.  335 

boiling  water  over  them,  with  a  little  salt;  let  stand  6  hours  or  over  night,  and 
then  put  them  into  cold  vinegar.  To  1  gallon  of  vinegar  add  1  cup  salt  and  1 
tablespoon  pulverized  alum,  and  scald  the  pickles  in  this  mixture;  pour  it  off,  and 
pour  on  new  vinegar,  with  spice,  red  peppers,  cinnamon,  root  ginger  and  cloves. 

Cucumber  Pickles  No.  2.  -Take  %  bushel  cucumbers,  and  soak  24  to  36  hours 
in  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg;  then  take  them  out,  wash,  and  cover  them 
with  vinegar  and  water  (half  and  half)  adding  alum  the  size  of  a  large  walnut; 
let  soak  2  days.  Then  take  out,  put  in  jars,  and  put  1  green  pepper  in  each  large 
jar.  Scald  2  gallons  vinegar  with  3  lbs.  brown  sugar,  1  oz.  each  stick  cinnamon, 
whole  cloves,  and  whole  allspice,  and  pour  it  over  the  pickles.  They  can  be  used 
next  day,  and  are  fine. 

No.  3. — Pick  when  2  or  3  inches  long,  no  larger.  Wash,  dry,  and  put  a  layer 
in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  fruit  jar;  mix  1  teaspoon  each  of  whole  cloves,  whole 
pepper-corns,  allspice,  and  2  teaspoons  of  stick  cinnamon  broken  fine;  sprinkle  the 
cucumbers  in  the  jar  with  this  mixture,  add  more  cucumbers,  then  more  spice, 
and  so  alternately  until  the  jar  is  full.  This  amount  of  spice  is  for  1  quart  can. 
Fill  the  can  with  strong  vinegar,  cold,  screw  on  the  cover,  and  in  about  4  or  5 
weeks  they  will  be  ready  for  use.  By  this  method  one  can  pick  cucumbers  each 
day,  using  as  many  cans  as  they  will  fill;  it  is  sure  and  easy,  as  there  is  no  trouble 
salting,  boiling,  etc. 

No.  4.— Take  2  parts  soft  water,  and  1  part  New  Orleans  molasses  or  sorghum; 
put  it  in  a  jar  or  cask,  and  set  it  in  the  sun  with  a  thin  cloth  and  board  covering 
it;  the  board  should  be  removed  during  the  day,  but  the  cloth  left  on  to  keep  out 
insects.  This  must  be  prepared  long  enough  to  get  sour  (say  4  weeks)  before 
putting  in  cucumbers.  Set  it  in  a  cool  place  as  soon  as  you  begin  to  put  in 
cucumbers;  pick  and  put  some  in  each  day,  and  every  time  you  put  in  cucumbers 
add  a  little  molasses  to  keep  up  the  strength  of  the  vinegar.  Lastly  add  5  or  6 
lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  a  few  horseradish  roots  and  a  small  piece  of  alum.  Some  use 
the  same  vinegar  every  year;  strain  it,  and  add  molasses  as  the  cucumbers  are  put 
in.    It  saves  the  trouble  of  making  fresh  every  year. 

Salting  Cucumbers. — Wash  them,  and  put  first  a  layer  of  salt,  then  a  layer  of 
cucumbers,  and  so  on  alternately  until  the  jar  is  full,  having  salt  on  top  and 
keeping  all  down  with  a  weight.  They  will  keep  this  way  2  or  3  years.  For  use, 
freshen  them  by  soaking  in  water  for  2  or  3  days,  changing  the  water  daily. 
Scald  vinegar,  to  which  is  added  spices,  and  a  little  sugar  if  desired,  and  pour 
this  hot  over  the  cucumbers.  A  cloth  can  be  laid  over  salted  cucumbers,  under 
the  weight,  and  the  scum  that  arises  may  be  removed  by  taking  off  the  cloth  and 
rinsing  it.  Horseradish  tops  or  cabbage  leaves  placed  under  the  cloth  will  prevent 
molding. 

Large  Cucumber  Pickles. — Very  nice  pickles  may  be  made  with  the  large 
cucumbers  that  would  be  considered  unfit  for  use  by  some  people.  Peel  them, 
and  take  out  the  seeds  and  soft  part;  cut  them  the  long  way  of  the  cucumber, 
cover  them  with  cold  vinegar,  and  let  them  stand  one  day  and  night;  drain  them 
well  and  put  on  fresh  vinegar,  with  2  lbs.  sugar;  put  1  oz.  cassia  buds  in  a  quart 
of  vinegar  and  add  to  the  pickles.  Boil  for  20  minutes,  then  put  them  away  in 
jars,  well  covered. 

Spiced  Cucumber  Pickles. — Soak  2  quarts  of  salted  pickles  in  cold  "water  until 
quite  fresh — it  may  take  2  days;  be  sure  and  change  the  water  2  or  3  times  a  day, 
when  fresh,  wipe  dry  and  pack  closely  in  jars.  Take  1  quart  vinegar,  1%  cups 
brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  and  1  teaspoon  cloves  tied  in  a  bag;  bring 
to  a  boil,  and  turn  it  over  the  pickles  while  hot. 


336  PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR. 

Pickled  Gherkins. — Put  them  in  strong  brine  until  they  are'yellow;  then  remove 

them,  and  pour  on  hot,  spiced  vinegar,  and  keep  them  in  a  warm  place  until  they 

turn  green;  take  them  out,  and  cover  with  good  vinegar,  boiling  hot  and  spiced 

to  taste. 

Gherkins  are  young  cucumbers,  gathered  before  they  are  mature,  and  they  are  used  for 
nothing  but  pickling;  as  pickles,  however,  they  are  generally  liked.  They  should  not  be 
gathered  too  young,  or  their  flavor  will  not  be  sufficiently  developed. 

Pickled  Eggs. — Boil  eggs  hard,  take  off  the  shells,  and  put  them  in  jars;  take 
vinegar  enough  to  cover,  season  it  well  with  cloves,  allspice  and  whole  peppers, 
and  a  little  ginger  tied  in  a  muslin  bag;  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  pour  it  hot  on  the 
eggs;  close  the  jars  tightly  when  cold.    They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  fortnight. 

Jersey  Pickles. — Take  1  package  ripe  tomatoes,  3  peppers,  3  tablespoons  salt, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  cloves,  3  heaping  teaspoons  cinnamon,  4  cups  sugar,  2  cups 
vinegar;  boil  from  1%  to  2  hours. 

Pickled  Lemons. — (1)  Select  12  small  lemons  with  thick  skins;  cut  into  them 
nearly  to  the  center,  but  not  quite  enough  so  that  they  fall  apart;  fill  the  open- 
ings with  salt,  and  pack  them  in  an  earthen  dish  on  end;  set  away,  and  in  about 
4  days  there  will  be  brine  enough  to  partly  cover  them;  turn  them  over,  repeating 
each  day  for  4  days,  so  that  all  parts  may  soak  in  the  brine;  then  drain  them  out 
and  put  in  glass  jars.  Add  enough  cider  vinegar  to  cover  the  fruit,  a  little 
crushed  ginger  root  and  a  Jamaica  pepper  if  desired,  or  other  spice;  bring  it  slowly 
to  a  boil,  skim,  and  pour  it  on  the  fruit  when  cold.     (2)  Another  way  is  to  wash 

2  doz.  lemons,  cut  across  or  through  the  ends  of  each  about  .2  inches  and  pack 
with  the  cut  end  down  in  a  stone  jar;  add  4  quarts  vinegar,  %  1°-  mustard-seed, 
%  lb.  salt,  %  oz-  each  of  cayenne  pepper,  cloves,  and  nutmeg  and  1  small  onion; 
cover  the  jar,  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  boil  all  day.  They  should 
be  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  fork  easily. 

Pickled  Limes. — (1)  Take  12  limes,  make  incisions  into  the  rinds  into  which 
rub  salt,  put  them  on  end  in  an  earthen  dish,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  4  or  5  days, 
or  until  soft,  turning  them  over  1  or  2  times,  and  put  them  in  glass  jars,  pouring 
in  the  brine.  Take  enough  vinegar  to  cover  them,  add  %  oz-  whole  pepper,  and 
2  oz.  each  of  bruised  ginger  and  mustard -seed,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  pour  on  them 
while  hot.  When  cold,  seal  the  jars.  (2)  Pick  limes  when  full  grown,  sound  and 
fresh,  and  put  them  at  once  into  brine  about  as  strong  as  sea- water;  in  2  or  3  days 
it  will  become  bitter;  pour  it  off,  cover  with  fresh  brine,  and  repeat  about  3  times, 
or  until  the  bitterness  is  extracted.  Cover  with  fresh  brine,  and  they  will  keep 
indefinitely  and  can  be  shipped,  being  always  saleable  barreled  thus. 

Pickled  Martynias. — Choose  the  small,  tender  martynias;  wash  and  brush  them 
carefully;  soak  them  in  a  strong  brine  for  5  days,  then  soak  them  in  fresh  water 
until  the  salty  taste  is  nearly  gone;  next  wipe  them  dry,  put  them  in  a  jar,  and 
pour  over  them  well  spiced  hot  vinegar,  flavored  with  onions  if  liked. 

Mangoe  Pickles. — Pick  green  cantelope  melons  when  half  grown  (about  the 
size  of  a  pint  bowl);  cut  out  1  lobe,  carefully  scrape  out  all  the  seeds,  return  the 
lobe  and  tie  it  in  place;  put  15  of  the  melons  in  a  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an 
egg,  and  leave  6  weeks,  keeping  them  well  under;  then  take  out,  soak  in  fresh 
water  24  hours,  then  remove,  wipe  dry,  and  fill  with  the  following  stuffing:  Take 
}4  lb.  scraped  horseradish;  %  lb.  race  ginger,  scalded,  scraped  and  chopped  fine; 
2  nutmegs;  %  oz.  mace;  1  oz.  whole  black  peppers;  1  small  box  good  mustard;  1 
oz.  turmeric;  12  large  onions  minced  very  fine.  Pound  the  mace,  nutmegs  and 
black  pepper  together,  and  mix  all  the  ingredients  together  with  enough  salad 
oil  to  make  it  into  a  paste.    Stuff  each  melon  perfectly  full;  return  and  tie  the 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR.  337 

lobe  in  place  with  thread,  and  put  each  mango  when  stuffed  into  a  jar  large 
enough  to  hold  thern  all.  Put  enough  strong  cider  vinegar  to  fill  the  jar  into  a 
preserving  kettle;  crack  and  add  %  oz.  each  of  cloves,  ground  ginger,  mace  and 
allspice,  let  boil,  and  pour  hot  over  the  mangoes.  Keep  the  jar  closely  covered. 
Made  in  the  fall  the  pickles  will  be  fit  to  eat  Christmas,  but  the  following  Christ- 
mas they  will  be  matchless,  their  perfection  increasing  with  age.  This  pickle  is 
the  most  elegant  made,  and  is  suitable  for  any  dinner  that  can  be  served. 

Green  Pepper  Maugoes. — Take  green  peppers  which  are  sound  and  firm  and 
add  as  many  red  ones  for  appearance;  cut  off  the  top,  extract  the  seeds,  put  into 
a  strong  brine,  and  let  soak  24  hours;  then  drain  them,  wipe,  and  fill  with  a 
stuffing  made  of  ground  cloves,  mustard  seed,  green  tomatoes  chopped,  cabbage 
chopped,  and  salt,  mixed  all  together;  sew  on  the  tops,  and  cover  them  with 
strong,  hot  vinegar  containing  1  cup  brown  sugar;  repeat  for  4  mornings,  and 
seal  up. 

Peach  Mangoes. — Take  large,  fine,  freestone  peaches;  with  a  silver  knife  cut  a 
hole  in  the  side  just  large  enough  to  remove  the  stone,  take  it  out,  put  back  the 
piece,  tie  it  in,  and  put  the  peaches  into  a  strong  brine;  leave  36  hours,  drain  out, 
and  let  them  lie  20  minutes  in  cold  water;  wipe  carefully,  and  fill  the  inside  with 
grated  horseradish  to  which  is  added  a  little  celery  seed  and  crushed  ginger  root, 
and  moistened  with  vinegar.  Replace  the  piece  forming  the  opening,  sew  or  tie 
it  in  place  with  thread;  stand  them  closely  in  glass  jars,  and  cover  them  with 
boiling  hot  vinegar,  containing  1  cup  sugar  to  each  quart  of  vinegar;  tie  up  when 
cold.    They  can  be  used  in  8  days. 

Mixed  Pickles. — Take  2  heads  of  cauliflower,  2  heads  cabbage,  50  small  cucum- 
bers, 8  small  carrots,  2  quarts  string  beans,  12  sticks  of  celery,  6  red  peppers 
(without  the  seeds)  and  3  green  peppers;  chop  these  vegetables  separately,  and 
let  them  soak  over  night  in  salt  and  water;  in.  the  morning  wash  and  drain  them. 
Take  2  grated  nutmegs,  3  teaspoons  each  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  tie  in  a  muslin 
bag,  and  put  into  vinegar  enough  to  cover  the  vegetables;  scald  it,  pour  it  over 
the  vegetables  hot,  put  in  jars  and  cover  closely. 

Pickled  Mushrooms. — Clean  carefully,  and  boil  a  few  minutes  in  salt  and 
water;  drain,  and  dry  them  between  linen  cloths;  put  into  jars,  and  cover  with 
vinegar,  spiced  to  taste. 

Mustard  Pickles. — Chop  fine,  equal  quantities  of  cauliflower,  white  onions, 
celery,  green  peppers  and  green  tomatoes;  pour  on  a  scalding  hot  brine,  let  stand 
over  night,  and  drain.  Take  %  gallon  cider  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  and  2  tablespoons 
of  butter;  bring  to  a  boil,  and  add  1  cup  flour,  6  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  % 
oz.  turmeric  powder  wet  in  cold  vinegar;  pour  it  all,  scalding  hot,  over  the  pickles. 

Pickled  Nasturtiums. — Leave  about  1  inch  of  stem  on  when  they  are  picked; 
let  them  soak  in  strong  brine  for  3  days;  drain,  and  soak  them  in  cold  water  1 
day;  drain,  put  in  jars,  and  pour  on  boiling  vinegar  to  cover;  they  need  no  spices. 
They  can  be  used  in  a  month,  and  will  serve  instead  of  capers  if  desired. 

Pickled  Onions.— (1)  Take  nice  onions,  peel  them,  put  into  boiling  water,  and 
let  them  stew  until  quite  clear;  then  remove  them  quickly,  put  them  between 
cloths  to  dry,  and  then  put  them  in  glass  jars.  Take  good  vinegar,  put  in  ginger 
and  whole  peppers,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  when  cold  pour  over  the  onions,  and  tie 
up  closely.  (2)  Select  button  onions,  cover  with  scalding  hot  brine,  and  leave  36 
hours;  drain,  put  in  jars,  and  cover  with  vinegar,  poured  on  hot,  and  spiced  as 
desired. 

Pickled  Oysters, — Take  1  quart  oyster  liquor,  7  tablespoons  good  vinegar,  1 
22 


338  PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR. 

teaspoon  each  of  allspice  and  white  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  "salt  and  2  blades  of 
mace;  into  this  put  1  quart  of  oysters,  and  simmer  5  minutes;  take  them  out, 
boil  the  liquor,  skim  it,  and  pour  it  over  the  oysters;  can  them  while  hot  if  you 
wish  to  keep  them  some  time. 

Pickled  Parsley.  — Prepare  a  brine  and  thoroughly  wash  selected  parsley  in  it; 
drain,  shake  dry,  put  into  glass  jars,  cover  with  cold  vinegar,  containing  1  table- 
spoon of  chopped  horseradish  to  the  quart,  and  tie  up.  It  can  be  used  for  gar- 
nishing. 

Pickled  Peppers. — Take  large  green  ones,  and  extract  the  seeds  through  a  slit 
cut  in  the  side,  but  leaving  them  whole;  then  put  them  in  a  strong  brine  for  2 
days,  changing  it  once;  then  put  them  in  cold  water  for  1  day;  drain,  and  pour 
on,  boiling  hot,  a  solution  of  ^  vinegar  and  %  water;  when  cold,  drain  them,  put 
into  jars,  and  cover  with  strong  cider  vinegar,  boiling  hot.  Tie  up  when  cold. 
They  are  sometimes  filled,  before  being  put  into  the  jars,  with  a  stuffing  made  of 
cabbage  head,  chopped  fine,  seasoned  with  salt  and  white  mustard-seed  mixed  in 
well;  then  sew  up,  put  in  jars,  and  cover  with  cold  spiced  vinegar. 

Piccalilli. — Slice  1  package  of  green  tomatoes,  add  2  cups  salt,  cover  with 
water  and  let  stand  24  hours,  then  put  into  fresh  water;  squeeze  out  of  this  and 
add  12  green  peppers,  6  onions,  1  head  of  cabbage,  chop  all  very  fine,  cover  with 
vinegar  and  scald;  then  drain  off,  add  2  cups  of  molasses,  1  tablespoon  cloves, 
allspice,  and  2  oz.  white  mustard  seed,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles. — Slice  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  let  stand  over 
night  with  a  little  salt  sprinkled  between  them;  in  the  morning  put  them  into 
weak  vinegar  and  scald;  remove  the  tomatoes  and  when  cold  put  in  jars.  Take 
strong  cider  vinegar  to  cover,  add  1  cup  sugar,  4  green  peppers,  mustard  and  spice 
to  taste,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickles. — Use  the  small  yellow  plum  tomatoes;  prick  them  with  a 
coarse  needle,  pack  in  jars,  and  cover  with  hot  cider  vinegar,  spiced  or  not  as  pre- 
ferred.   Cover  close  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Pickled  Turnips.— Wash  them,  but  do  not  break  the  skin  or  the  juice  will 
escape;  boil  them,  and  when  done  pare,  cut  in  slices  %  inch  thick,  and  pour  on 
spiced  vinegar  boiling  hot.    They  are  best  eaten  when  new. 

Pickled  Walnuts  or  Butternuts. — Gather  them  when  young  enough  to  be 
pierced  readily  with  a  pin;  put  them  in  strong  brine,  and  leave  them  7  days, 
changing  it  every  other  day;  then  take  them  out,  wipe  dry,  and  pierce  them  with 
a  large  needle  in  a  number  of  places;  cover  them  for  8  hours,  or  over  night,  with 
cold  water;  then  drain,  and  put  in  jars.  Take  enough  cider  vinegar  to  cover,  and 
to  each  gallon  allow  12  blades  mace,  1  cup  sugar,  36  black  pepper-corns,  36  cloves, 
and  1  tablespoon  allspice;  boil  5  minutes  and  pour  hot  on  the  nuts;  repeat  twice, 
3  days  apart,  and  tie  up. 

Ornamental  Pickle. — Take  red  beets,  cook  until  tender,  then  peel  and  cut 
into  dice,  put  in  jars  and  cover  with  vinegar  spiced  to  taste.  Boil  eggs  25  min- 
utes, then  drop  into  cold  water;  when  cold,  shell  and  put  in  with  the  pickles. 

French  Pickles. — Take  1  package  green  tomatoes,  1  medium-sized  cabbage,  6 
large  onions,  6  large  peppers;  chop  all  very  fine,  but  let  the  tomatoes  drain 
through  a  colander  before  adding  the  rest.  Addl  cup  white  mustard-seed,  2  lbs. 
brown  sugar,  1  gallon  strong  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  each 
of  allspice,  cloves  and  black  pepper  and  %  cup  salt;  cook  %  hour  and  put  into 
a  jar. 

Russia  Pickles,  —Take  2  gallons  cabbage  coarsely  chopped,  12  onions,  4  quarts 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR.  339 

green  tomatoes  chopped  together,  6  green  peppers,  1  oz.  pepper  berry,  1  oz.  cel- 
ery seed,  %  lb.  white  mustard-seed,  V^  lbs.  sugar,  %  gill  salt,  4  quarts  vinegar; 
boil  all  together  until  the  cabbage  and  tomatoes  are  tender;  then  add  %  oz. 
turmeric.    Can  while  hot. 

Chili  Sauce. — Take  18  large  tomatoes  (not  too  ripe),  1  green  pepper,  3  onions; 
chop  fine  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  salt,  )^  cup  sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  1  teaspoon 
each  of  cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  allspice;  boil  2  hours  and  put  in  cans. 

Chow  Chow. — Take  2  large  heads  of  cauliflower,  2  quarts  green  peppers,  3 
quarts  green  cucumbers,  3  quarts  green  tomatoes,  2  quarts  small  onions;  slice 
about  %  inch  thick,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  in  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes,  onions, 
and  cucumbers;  boil  the  cauliflowers  about  5  minutes;  let  them  stand  over  night, 
then  strain  all  carefully  and  free  from  water.  Then  place  in  jars  and  make  a 
seasoning  as  follows:  Take  1  lb.  mustard,  %  lb.  mustard-seed,  %  lb.  whole  all- 
spice, %  lb.  whole  black  pepper,  2  cups  brine,  1  gallon  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  curry 
powder;  boil  strongly  15  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  vegetables.  If  too  thick, 
add  vinegar.  Mix  the  mustard  with  vinegar,  and  tie  the  spices  all  together  in  a 
muslin  bag;  they  should  all  boil  with  the  vinegar. 

Chow  Chow  No.  2. — Take  equal  amounts  of  green  tomatoes  and  cabbage,  %  the 
amount  of  onions,  or  less  if  preferred,  and  1  or  2  green  peppers;  chop  all  together 
fine;  then  season  with  plenty  of  salt,  a  red  pepper  cut  fine  after  removing  the 
seeds,  black  pepper  and  a  little  white  mustard-seed.  Mix  the  spices  well  through 
the  mass,  pack  in  jars  or  bottles,  and  pour  on  cold  vinegar.  Keep  it  cool.  It  will 
be  ready  for  use  in  a  few  days,  will  keep  several  weeks,  and  can  be  made  thus 
without  cooking. 

SWEET    PICKLES. 

These  are  made  from  any  of  the  fruits  suitable  for  preserving,  and  also  from 
some  of  the  vegetables.  The  strength  of  the  syrup  used  varies  from  1  to  4  lbs. 
sugar  to  the  quart  of  vinegar,  as  vinegar  varies  in  strength  and  some  people  like 
it  sweeter  than  others,  but  it  is  better  to  have  the  syrup  rich.  The  best  sugar  to 
use  is  the  best  light  brown  or  coffee  "C"  sugar;  some  use  maple  sugar. 

The  spices  generally  used  are  cinnamon  and  cloves,  although  allspice,  mace 
and  ginger  are  sometimes  added,  and  can  be  used  by  any  who  desire  them.  The 
spices  should  be  tied  in  a  muslin  bag  before  being  boiled  in  the  syrup,  or  they 
will  discolor  such  fruits  as  apples,  pears,  etc. 

Apples,  melon  rinds,  cucumbers  and  pears  should  be  steamed  until  tender 
enough  to  pierce  with  a  broom  straw  or  fork  before  pouring  the  hot  syrup  over 
them,  as  it  then  penetrates  them  more  readily.  Smooth  skinned  fruits,  like 
plums,  etc.,  should  be  pricked  with  a  needle  before  being  cooked  in  the  syrup. 
Peaches  if  very  ripe  do  not  need  steaming,  but  otherwise  they  do.  They  are 
sometimes  merely  rubbed  well  with  a  cloth;  some  people  wash  them  first  with 
a  weak  lye,  and  some  cooks  peel  them. 

The  method  of  making  sweet  pickles  is  to  prepare  the  syrup,  bring  it  to  a  boil, 
put  in  the  pickles,  and  boil  until  tender;  then  put  into  jars  and  put  away  when 
cold.  Another  way  is  to  prepare  the  syrup  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  on  the  pickles; 
let  stand  until  next  day,  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil  it,  pour  on  hot  again,  and  repeat 
this  for  4  or  5  days;  then  seal  hot.    Either  plan  works  well. 

A  Hint. — Many  people  do  not  know  that  sweet  pickles  can  be  made  from 
preserves  of  almost  any  kind.  All  that  is  needed  is  to  take  the  syrup,  add  vinegar 
and  any  spices  desired,  boil  it  up,  and  pour  it  again  on  the  fruit. 

Pickled  Apples. — Peel  and  core  them,  and  steam  until  tender;  prepare  a  syrup 
of  3  lbs.  sugar  to  1  quart  of  vinegar,  add  spices  (tied  in  a  bag)  bring  to  a  boil,  put 
in  the  apples,  let  simmer  quietly  2  minutes,  then  put  in  jars  and  seal. 

Crab  Apples. — Select  good  apples,  take  out  the  blossom  end,  steam  until  a  fork 


340  PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR. 

will  readily  pierce  them;  prepare  a  rich  syrup  of  ?>%  lbs.  sugar  to  1  pint  vinegar, 
add  spices,  and  finish  like  sweet  apples. 

Pickled  Beets. — Boil  them  until  tender,  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and  when 
cold  slice  them  crossways,  as  the  appearance  is  better  than  if  cut  lengthways; 
put  in  jars  and  pour  on  a  hot  rich  syrup  of  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices  to  taste 
(put  the  spices  in  a  bag). 

Pickled  Blackberries. — Prepare  a  syrup  of  2  cups  vinegar,  4  lbs.  sugar,  and  % 
oz.  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves;  bring  it  to  a  boil,  put  in  10  lbs.  berries,  simmer 
for  %  hour,  and  put  into  jars. 

Blueberries,  Raspberries,  and  Strawberries  can  be  put  up  the  same  way. 

Pickled  Bed  Cabbage.  —Cut  fine  8  heads  of  red  cabbage,  pack  it  in  a  crock  in 
layers,  sprinkling  salt  between  each  layer,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Then  put  6 
lbs.  sugar  in  %  gallon  of  vinegar,  add  2  oz.  each  of  allspice,  pepper,  cinnamon  and 
cloves,  and  2  tablespoons  of  celery  seeds  (tied  in  a  bag);  boil  it,  and  pour  hot  on 
the  cabbage. 

Pickled  Cantelope. — Select  melons  which  are  neither  soft,  yellow,  nor  yet  very 
green;  pare,  remove  the  seeds  and  soft  inside,  slice,  and  stick  a  clove  with  the 
blossom  end  taken  off  into  each  piece.  Prepare  a  syrup  of  3)^  lbs.  sugar  to  2 
quarts  vinegar,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  melons  and  simmer  until  they  are 
soft  and  transparent;  then  put  into  glass  jars  and  pour  on  the  syrup  hot;  leave 
until  the  next  day  and  they  will  have  settled  a  little,  when  fill  again  with  the 
cold  syrup  left  over,  and  cover  closely. 

Pickled  Cauliflower. — Cut  the  cauliflower  into  any  shaped  pieces  desired,  put 
them  into  strong  brine,  and  leave  24  hours;  then  take  out,  boil  the  brine,  and 
pour  it  on  the  pickles  scalding  hot;  let  stand  until  next  day,  and  drain  them  out. 
Prepare  a  spiced  vinegar,  boiling  any  spices  desired  in  it;  let  it  get  cold,  and  pour 
it  cold  on  the  pickles. 

Pickled  Cherries. — Stone  and  put  into  a  jar  5  lbs.  good  ripe  cherries,  adding  a 
few  pits  to  flavor;  take  %  oz-  each  of  mace,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  2  lbs.  sugar,  and 
2  pints  good  cider  vinegar;  put  all  together,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the 
fruit  hot. 

Currants. — Put  6  heaping  cups  of  sugar  into  1  quart  vinegar;  add  7  lbs.  cur- 
rants, scald  them,  take  them  out  and  put  in  jars;  boil  the  syrup  a  few  minutes, 
and  pour  it  hot  over  the  fruit.  Use  only  %  as  much  vinegar  if  they  are  desired 
sweeter. 

Cucumber  Pickles. — Take  ripe  cucumbers,  quarter  them,  remove  the  seeds, 
and  soak  in  strong  brine  (keeping  them  well  under)  for  10  days;  take  out,  soak  1 
day  in  clear  cold  water,  and  then  over  night  in  weak  alum  water,  and  drain  them 
out;  take  1  quart  of  vinegar,  6  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  each  of  cloves,  mace  and 
cinnamon  (tied  in  a  bag),  bring  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  cucumbers,  and  simmer  until 
tender. 

Pickled  Grapes. — Take  fresh,  sound,  ripe  grapes,  and  pack  them  in  jars;  pre- 
pare sweetened  and  spiced  vinegar,  let  it  get  cold,  and  pour  over  the  grapes,  cov- 
ering them  fully. 

Pickled  Figs. — Make  a  hot  pickle  of  sweetened  cider  vinegar;  take  ripe  figs, 
peel  them,  put  them  in  the  pickle,  and  boil  gently  until  tender. 

Pickled  Plums. — Gather  the  plums  with  the  stalks,  prick  them  with  a  needle, 
and  put  them  with  layers  of  cloves  and  cinnamon  into  glass  jars.  For  every  4  lbs. 
plums  boil  up  2  lbs.  sugar  and  1  quart  of  vinegar,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  plums. 
Next  day  pour  off  the  vinegar,  boil  it  up  again,  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit  again; 
repeat  this  twice,  then  tie  up.    It  improves  by  keeping. 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGA&  §41 

Pickled  Peaches. — Wipe  the  peaches  and  steam  them  until  tender,  and  then 
pack  them  in  jars;  take  1  quart  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  of  cloves  and  broken 
stick  cinnamon  (tied  in  a  bag)  to  each  quart  of  vinegar;  boil  it  and  pour  hot  over 
the  fruit;  the  next  day  turn  it  off,  boil  again,  and  pour  hot  on  the  peaches  again; 
repeat  once,  seal  up  and  put  away. 

Pears  and  Quinces  can  be  put  up  the  same  way,  but  the  latter  can  be  pared, 
cored  and  quartered  before  steaming,  and  the  parings  and  cores  used  for  making 
jelly. 

Pickled  Pineapple. — This  can  be  pared,  sliced,  and  boiled  gently  until  tender; 
then  put  in  jars  and  finished  like  peaches. 

Pickled  Raisins. — Prepare  a  syrup  of  1  cup  sugar  to  1  pint  vinegar;  put  in  2 
lbs.  raisins,  leaving  the  stems  on,  and  cook  gently  30  minutes;  then  put  them 
into  jars. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles.— Slice  1  peck  green  tomatoes  and  6  large  onions  (or  1 
quart  of  small  ones);  sprinkle  on  1  cup  salt,  and  let  stand  over  night;  in  the 
morning  drain;  then  boil  them  5  minutes  in  2  pints  vinegar  and  4  pints  water, 
and  again  drain  through  acolander.  Then  take  1  gallon  vinegar,  and  2  lbs.  sugar, 
2  oz.  white  mustard-seed,  2  tablespoons  each  of  cinnamon,  ginger  and  cloves,  and 
6  green  peppers,  chopped,  or  ^  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper  instead;  boil  all  gently 
15  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  chopped  tomatoes  and  onions.  They  will  keep  a 
year  or  more.  If  desired,  the  onions  can  be  omitted,  and  the  tomatoes  put  up 
alone  in  the  same  way. 

No.  2. — Take  1  peck  sliced  green  tomatoes,  and  let  them  stand  in  strong  brine 
all  night;  then  drain,  boil  until  tender,  drain  again  and  put  in  jars.  Prepare  a 
syrup  of  3  lbs.  sugar,  %  oz.  allspice,  and  1  oz.  each  cinnamon  and  cloves  to  1  quart 
vinegar;  boil,  and  pour  hot  over  the  tomatoes. 

Husk  Tomato  Pickles.— For  7  lbs.  husk  tomatoes  use  4  lbs.  sugar,  2  cups  vin- 
egar, 2  teaspoons  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace;  prick  the  tomatoes  instead 
of  peeling,  put  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  the  sugar  in  alternate  layers,  heat 
slowly  to  boiling,  add  the  vinegar  and  spices,  and  boil  5  minutes;  take  the  fruit 
out  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  and  spread  it  on  dishes  to  cool;  when  cool,  pack 
it  in  glass  jars,  boil  the  syrup  thick,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  on  the  fruit.  Examine 
them  occasionally  the  first  month,  and  if  any  signs  of  fermenting  appear,  set  the 
jars  uncovered  in  a  kettle  of  water  (with  thick  cloth  under  them)  and  heat  until 
the  contents  are  scalded.    These  are  very  nice. 

Watermelon  Kind. — Soak  it  in  vinegar  over  night;  then  boil  it  in  water  until 
tender,  and  drain.  Prepare  a  syrup  of  3  lbs.  sugar  and  1  oz.  each  cinnamon  and 
cloves  (tied  in  a  bag)  to  1  quart  vinegar,  or  to  1  pint  vinegar  if  wanted  very  sweet; 
bring  it  to  aboil,  put  in  the  rind,  boil  5  minutes  and  put  in  jars. 

Citron  can  be  put  up  in  the  same  way. 


SPICED  FRUIT. 

Some  people  confound  spiced  fruit  and  sweet  pickles,  but  they  are  not  the 
same.  Sweet  pickles  are  really  a  pickle,  but  spiced  fruit  is  a  spiced  preserve, 
usually  boiled  down  thick. 

Spiced  Fruit. — Sprinkle  1%  lbs.  sugar  over  3^  lbs.  fruit  and  let  it  stand  over 
night;  then  take  the  juice,  add  1  cup  vinegar,  and  cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves  to 
taste,  and  boil  15  minutes,  then  put  the  fruit  in  ancLboil  10  minutes  and  put 
in  jars. 


342  PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR. 

Spiced  Apples. — Take  2  cups  vinegar,  2  lbs.  of  sugar,  %  oz-  cinnamon  and  J^ 
oz.  of  cloves;  boil  all  together,  and  while  boiling  add  4  lbs.  of  apples  which  are 
pared,  quartered  and  cored;  let  them  boil  about  20  minutes,  or  until  tender;  then 
take  them  out  and  put  in  a  jar;  boil  the  syrup  down  until  thick  and  pour  it  over 
the  apples. 

Spiced  Blackberries. — Take  1  cup  of  vinegar,  2  cups  of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon 
each  of  allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon;  add  2^  lbs.  blackberries,  bring  to  a  boil, 
skim  out  the  blackberries,  and  boil  the  balance  for  1  hour;  put  back  the  berries 
and  boil  15  minutes;  then  put  in  jars  and  tightly  cover. 

Spiced  Cherries.— Boil  together  2  pints  vinegar,  2  lbs.  sugar,  and,  tied  in  a 
bag,  }4.  oz-  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace;  then  put  in  5  lbs.  tart  cherries, 
having  the  stems  left  on,  and  boil  20  minutes. 

Spiced  Currants. — Take  4  lbs.  sugar,  2  cups  of  vinegar,  4  teaspoons  each  of 
allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves  (tied  in  a  bag);  add  5  lbs.  currants  and  boil  2  to  3 
hours. 

Spiced  Elderberries. — Take  2  cups  vinegar,  4  lbs.  sugar,  1  teaspoon  each  of 
allspice  and  cloves  and  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon  (all  tied  in  a  bag),  and  boil;  then 
add  6  lbs.  elderberries,  boil  2  hours,  and  put  in  jars. 

Spiced  Gooseberries. — Take  5  lbs.  gooseberries,  4  lbs.  sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  1 
tablespoon  cloves  and  cinnamon;  boil  3  hours,  then  put  in  jars. 

Spiced  Grapes. — Pulp  7  lbs.  grapes  and  scald  until  the  pulps  will  pass  through 
a  sieve;  then  put  them  in  the  preserving  kettle,  add  5  lbs.  sugar,  1  quart  vinegar, 
and  ground  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice  to  taste;  let  boil,  add  the  skins,  and 
boil  1  hour,  or  longer  if  they  are  wanted  very  thick. 

Spiced  Pears. — Take  2  cups  vinegar  and  6  cups  of  sugar,  and  put  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  mace  in  a  bag  and  boil  all  till  nearly  thick  enough;  then  put  in  pears 
which  have  been  nicely  pared,  and  3  or  4  cloves  (without  the  heads)  stuck  in  each 
one,  and  boil  until  they  look  clear;  now  put  the  pears  in  a  jar,  pour  the  syrup 
over,  cover  tightly,  and  they  will  keep  indefinitely. 

Spiced  Peaches. — Wipe  1%  lbs.  peaches  and  boil  them  until  tender  in  2  cups 
vinegar  and  1  lb.  brown  sugar;  then  take  them  out  and  put  in  %  oz.  each  of 
cinnamon,  mace  and  cloves,  boil  them  all  well,  and  pour  over  the  peaches. 

Spiced  Tomatoes. — To  each  pound  of  ripe  tomatoes  (peeled)  allow  ~%  cup  vinegar, 
3^  lb.  sugar,  and  spices  to  taste;  boil  all  together  gently  until  the  tomatoes  are 
cooked;  take  out  the  tomatoes  and  put  them  on  a  dish  till  cold,  but  let  the  syrup 
simmer;  put  back  the  tomatoes  when  cold,  and  cook  till  they  area  dark  red;  then 
take  them  out  and  boil  the  syrup  down  thick.  When  cold,  put  in  jars  and  seal. 


CATSUPS  AND  SOYS. 

In  making  catsups  use  good  sound  fruit.  See  what  we  say  about  "The 
Utensils  Used"  in  the  introduction  to  our  article  on  "Jams,  Jellies,  etc.,"  as  that 
will  apply  also  for  catsups.  Do  not  put  these  up  in  tin  cans,  but  use  glass  or 
stone  jars.  If  mold  is  found  on  top  when  the  catsup  is  opened,  it  can  all  be 
removed,  and  the  contents  will  not  be  seriously  injured;  but  if  mold  is  scattered 
in  spots  throughout  the  mass,  it  is  worthless.  If  when  a  can  is  opened  there  is 
danger  that  the  balance  of  the  contents  will  spoil,  it  should  be  thoroughly  heated. 
Vinegar  can  then  be  added  if  too  thick. 

Catsups,  like  preserves,  should  be  kept  in  a  dark,  dry,  cool  place.  A  few 
whole  cloves  laid  on  top  will  prevent  mold  from  forming. 


P ICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR.  343 

Apple  Catsup. — Take  12  tart  sound  apples,  pare  and  quarter  them,  and  cook 
in  very  little  water  until  soft;  then  pulp  through  a  sieve;  for  each  quart  of  this 
pulp  take  2  cups  vinegar,  2  medium-sized  onions  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2 
teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  each  of  mustard,  cloves  and  pepper,  1  table- 
spoon salt;  mix  all  together  with  the  pulp,  and  boil  I  hour;  put  into  jars  hot,  and 
seal  tight. 

Crab  Apple  Catsup. — Take  %  peck  of  chopped  crab  apples,  (do  not  remove  the 
skins)  3  cups  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  even  tablespoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  each 
of  ground  cinnamon,  pepper,  and  cloves.  Cook  slowly  until  soft;  then  put  in  jars. 

Cherry  Catsup. — Take  the  pits  from  2  quarts  of  nice  large  cherries;  put  2  cups 
of  vinegar  with  2  cups  of  sugar,  a  dozen  whole  cloves,  and  2  or  3  sticks  of  cinnamon, 
broken  coarsely,  in  the  preserving  kettle,  and  boil  the  cherries  10  minutes.  Set 
away  in  the  kettle  until  next  day;  boil  again  5  minutes  and  pack  hot  in  wide- 
mouthed  bottles;  cork  tightly.  A  few  whole  clove3  under  the  corks  will  prevent 
mold  in  the  tops  of  the  bottles. 

Cucumber  Catsup. — Grate  the  cucumbers,  drain  them  in  a  colander, 'and  for 
each  quart  allow  2  cups  vinegar,  4  tablespoons  grated  horseradish,  2  teaspoons 
salt,  and  %  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Bottle  without  cooking  and  seal.  Some 
cooks  cover  it  with  vinegar  alone.     Others  add  1  large  onion,  chopped  very  fine. 

Currant  Catsup. — Take  6  quarts  of  currant  juice,  2  lbs.  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
cloves,  1  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  salt.  Boil  half  down;  then 
add  1  cup  vinegar.    Cork  tightly. 

Elderberry  Catsup. — Pick  2  pints  elderberries  from  the  stalk,  put  in  a  jar,  and 
pour  over  them  2  pints  scalding  hot  vinegar;  cover  with  window  glass  and  set  in 
the  sun  2  days;  then  drain  off  the  liquor  and  add  2  tablespoons  white  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  small  peppers,  6  anchovies  soaked  and  picked  to  pieces,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  %  teaspoon  cloves,  boil  1  hour,  stirring  frequently,  and  keeping  covered 
when  not  stirring;  then  take  from  the  stove,  let  it  cool,  then  strain,  bottle,  and 
seal. 

Grape  Catsup. — Take  6  lbs.  grapes,  boil  in  a  little  water  and  strain;  add  3  lbs. 
sugar,  2  cups  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  extract  of  lemon  and 
salt;  boil  until  thick  and  bottle. 

Gooseberry  Catsup. — To  8  quarts  of  gooseberries  add  4  lbs.  brown  sugar,  2 
cups  vinegar,  2  oz.  cinnamon,  1  oz.  cloves.  Boil  4  hours  slowly,  and  stir  fre- 
quently. 

Lemon  Catsup. — Mix  together  4  tablespoons  of  white  mustard-seed,  2  table- 
spoons each  of  grated  horseradish  and  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  white  pepper 
and  turmeric,  1  tablespoon  each  of  mace  and  cloves,  1  saltspoon  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, 1  shallot  minced  fine;  have  the  spices  all  ground  fine,  and  sprinkle  on  2  table- 
spoons salt.  Add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  12  lemons,  cover,  and  put  for  3 
hours  in  a  cool  place;  then  boil  }/%  hour,  strain  through  flannel,  bottle  and  seal. 

Mushroom  Catsup. — Put  the  mushrooms  in  layers,  with  salt  sprinkled  on  each 
layer,  and  let  stand  4  days;  then  mash  them  fine,  and  to  each  quart  add  %  of  a 
teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  and  boil  it  2  hours  in  a  crock  set  in  boiling  water; 
strain  it  from  the  liquor  without  squeezing;  boil  the  liquor,  and  let  it  stand  to 
cool  and  settle;  then  bottle  and  seal  securely. 

Oyster  Catsup. — Chop  1  quart  of  oysters,  put  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with 
their  liquor  and  1  cup  vinegar;  bring  to  a  boil,  skim  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and 
boil  3  or  4  minutes;  strain  through  coarse  flannel  or  a  hair  sieve,  return  the  liquor 
to  the  fire  and  add  1  tablespoon  salt,  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  mace  and  cayenne 
pepper;  boil  20  minutes,  and  bottle  when  cold,  sealing  it  well. 


344  PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR. 

Pepper  Catsup. — Take  50  pods  of  large,  red  bell  peppers,  seeds  and  all;  add  1 
pint  of  vinegar,  and  boil  until  you  can  pull  it  through  a  sieve;  then  add  to  the 
pulp  1  pint  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  each  of  sugar,  cloves,  mace,  allspice,  salt  and 
onions,  and  boil  all  to  the  proper  consistency.    Some  cooks  omit  the  spices. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Tomatoes  for  catsups  are  best  gathered  in  August,  as  they 
become  acid  and  watery  later  on.  Select  good  tomatoes,  scald  and  strain  through 
a  sieve;  to  each  2  quarts  of  the  sifted  tomatoes,  allow  2%  tablespoons  each  of 
black  pepper,  salt  and  ground  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves,  and  2  cups  vin- 
egar; boil  3  hours  and  bottle  for  use. 

Tomato  Catsup  No.  2. — Take  1  bushel  of  tomatoes,  2  oz.  salt,  lj^oz.  ground 
black  pepper,  1  oz.  ground  cinnamon,  %  oz.  ground  cloves,  3  tablespoons  ground 
mustard.  Skin  and  slice  thetomatoes,  stew  them  until  soft,  rub  through  a  sieve, 
and  boil  the  pulp  slowly  until  it  is  about  the  consistency  of  apple  butter;  then 
add  1  quart  of  vinegar  to  which  has  been  added  1  cup  of  sugar  and  the  above 
spices;  boil  up  twice,  bottle  and  seal. 

Walnut  Catsup. — Gather  the  nuts  while  they  are  young  and  tender  enough  to 
pierce  with  a  pin  easily;  mash  them  to  a  soft  pulp,  and  let  them  lie  in  salt  water 
2  weeks;  drain  them,  cover  with  boiling  vinegar,  mix  and  tmash  them  in  it,  and 
strain  through  a  colander;  to  each  quart  of  the  juice  add  3  tablespoons  each  of 
pepper  and  grated  nutmeg,  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  cloves,  1  tablespoon  of  gin- 
ger; boil  1  hour,  and  bottle  when  cold. 

Currant  Soy. — Take  ^  gallon  of  currants  and  add  2  cups  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar 

(heaped),  1  tablespoon  mace,  the  same  of  allspice,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon 

and  pepper;  boil  all  together  1  hour,  bottle  and  seal. 

Soy.— The  genuine  soy  is  made  in  Japan  and  China  from  the  seeds  of  a  plant  called 
Dolichos  Soja;  the  seeds  are  similar  to  our  kidney  bean,  but  are  black.  The  soy  is  made  by 
boiling  the  seeds  until  soft,  adding  wheat  or  barley,  allowing  it  to  ferment,  and  then  adding 
an  equal  amount  of  salt.  It  becomes  clearer  with  age.  There  are  many  stories  of  its  adulter- 
ation, some  of  them  unfortunately  being  too  true.  It  is  nruch  liked  with  fish.  The  term 
has  now  come,  however,  to  be  applied  to  a  kind  of  catsup. 

Gooseberry  Soy. — Take  2  cups  vinegar,  3  lbs.  sugar,  and  6  lbs.  gooseberries; 
boil  30  minutes. 

Grape  Soy.— Take  5  lbs.  grapes  and  let  them  simmer  gently  until  soft;  strain 
through  a  sieve  and  add  2  tablespoons  each  of  allspice  and  cinnamon,  %  table- 
spoon each  of  cloves,  grated  nutmeg,  and  salt,  3  cups  of  sugar  (heaped),  and  2 
cups  vinegar;  mix  all  thoroughly,  boil  until  thick,  bottle  and  seal. 

Plum  Soy. — Take  1  gallon  of  plums,  boil  gently  until  tender,  rub  through  a 
sieve,  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  the  same  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
cloves,  ground  mustard  and  black  pepper,  and  2  cups  vinegar;  boil  gently  1  hour, 
bottle  and  seal. 

Green  Tomato  Soy. — Take  4  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced  but  not  peeled, 
12  onions  peeled  and  sliced;  add  4  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  cloves  and 
allspice,  2  tablespoons  each  of  black  pepper,  ground  mustard  and  salt,  and  % 
gallon  of  good  vinegar;  boil  gently,  stirring  frequently,  until  tender;  bottle  and 
seal. 

Ripe  Tomato  Soy. — Peel  and  slice  4  quarts  of  ripe  tomatoes,  slice  and  add  7 
onions,  sprinkle  on  1  cup  salt,  and  let  stand  36  hours,  when  drain  off  the  liquor; 
then  add  1  teaspoon  red  pepper,  2  teaspoons  each  of  allspice,  cloves,  ginger  and 
ground  mustard,  and  }{  gallon  of  good  vinegar;  let  it  simmer  quietly  2  hours  and 
add  )4  lb-  white  mustard-seed  and  4  cups  sugar;  cook  till  done,  then  bottle  and 
seal. 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR.  345 

VINEGAR. 

Vinegar  (from  the  French  vin  aigre  meaning  literally  sour  wine)  is  a  form  of 
acetic  acid,  and  its  flavor  varies  according  to  the  source  from  which  it  is 
obtained.  Vinegar  of  the  best  quality  is  obtained  from  the  grape,  white  wine 
vinegar  being  usually  considered  the  best.  Cider  vinegar  is  derived  from  cider, 
and  in  the  United  States  most  of  the  vinegar  was  formerly  obtained  from  this 
source.  Its  flavor  is  peculiar,  and  many  prefer  it.  Vinegar  is  also  made  from 
barley,  sour  ale  or  beer,  glucose,  etc.  Vinegar  containing  5%  of  the  pure  acetic 
acid  is  called  proof  vinegar,  and  is  the  strongest  that  is  used,  but  much  of  that 
sold  in  the  market  contains  only  3$  of  the  acid  or  even  less.  It  is  frequently 
adulterated  with  other  acids  like  sulphuric,  muriatic,  etc.  Many  flavored  vinegars 
used  for  culinary  purposes  are  merely  ordinary  vinegar  flavored  with  fruits,  herbs 
or  vegetables.    We  give  elsewhere  recipes  for  making  a  great  variety  of  these. 

All  the  vegetable  juices  can  go  through  the  acetous  fermentation  and  produce 
vinegar.  The  process  can  be  hastened  by  introducing  a  little  ferment,  like  yeast. 
The  fermentation  takes  place  most  readily  at  70°  to  90°  F.,  but  below  60°  or  above 
90°  the  action  begins  to  diminish;  boiling  and  freezing  both  stop  it  altogether. 

Vinegar  can  be  made  from  any  pure  fruit  jelly  which  has  begun  fermenting, 
or  which  will  not  "set."  All  that  is  needed  is  to  add  water  and  set  it  in  a  warm 
place,  or  exposed  to  the  sun  is  best,  covered  with  mosquito  netting.  Adding  a 
little  "mother,"  or  yeast,  will  hasten  it.  Vinegar  can  also  be  made  from  cider  or 
any  pure  fruit  wine  in  the  saine  way,  but  add  a  little  sugar. 

Vinegar  and  yeast  are  best  kept  in  glass  vessels;  glazed  ware  is  not  suitable, 
as  their  acids  attack  the  glazing,  extract  its  lead,  and  produce  the  poisonous  ace^ 
tate  of  lead.  See  what  we  say  about  "The  Utensils  Used"  in  our  preceding  chap- 
ter on  "Jams,  Jellies,"  etc.    It  will  apply  for  vinegar,  also. 

Mother  of  vinegar  is  a  fungus,  or  low  form  of  plant  life  (the  Mycodermi  aceti).  A  little  of 
this  put  into  a  sweet  or  alcoholic  solution  will  soon  convert  it  into  acetic  acid  or  vinegar. 
The  plant  may  be  divided  and  propagated  to  any  extent. 

Vinegar  can  hardly  he  said  to  have  any  nutritive  value,  its  office  being  to  stimulate 
the  nerves  of  taste,  and  to  flavor  various  foods.  It  also  has  a  powerful  preservative  action, 
preventing  the  decomposition  of  vegetable  and  animal  substances. 

Apple  Vinegar. — When  cooking  apples,  save  the  parings  and  cores  (if  sound); 
they  can  be  thrown  into  a  jar  from  time  to  time,  as  they  accumulate;  add  enough 
soft  water  to  cover,  and  1  cup  of  sugar  or  molasses  to  each  6  or  8  quarts  of  water; 
keep  out  insects  by  covering  with  netting;  keep  it  in  a  warm  place  and  it  will 
form  good  vinegar. 

Beet  Vinegar. — A  good  vinegar  can  be  made  from  beets  by  extracting  the 
juice,  and  letting  it  stand  in  a  warm  place,  or  exposed  to  the  sun,  covered  with 
netting;  a  little  yeast  will  hasten  the  process. 

Cherry  Vinegar. — Into  1  quart  of  good  cider  put  4  lbs.  cherries,  mashed,  and 
add  their  stones,  also;  let  stand  24  hours,  and  add  4  lbs.  more  cherries  without 
their  stones;  let  stand  3  days  and  strain  (but  do  not  squeeze)  through  a  thin  bag; 
add  1  quart  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice,  and  boil  gently  30  minutes;  skim,  and 
bottle  when  cold. 

Cider  Vinegar. — To  each  2  quarts  of  cider  add  1  cup  molasses  and  ^  cup 
yeast;  keep  covered  where  the  temperature  is  70°  to  90°  and  it  will  soon  make 
vinegar;  then  draw  it  off  from  the  dregs,  and  keep  in  a  jug,  or  bottles,  tightly 
corked.  Cider  for  vinegar  should  be  made  from  good  sound  apples  which  are 
not  wormy  or  decayed. 

Clover  Vinegar. — Put  into  a  jar  1  quart  of  molasses,  and  pour  on  2%  gallons 
of  pure  soft  water,  boiling  hot;  as  soon  as  it  is  barely  lukewarm,  add  2  cups  hop 
yeast  and  5  pints  clover  blossoms;  cover  and  let  stand  a  fortnight;  then  strain 
through  cloth. 

Corn  Vinegar. — Put  into  a  jar  2  cups  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  add  2  cups  of 
molasses  or  brown  sugar,  and  4  quarts  of  pure  soft  water;  set  it  in  the  sun  cov- 


346  PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  VINEGAR. 

ered  with  netting  to  keep  out  the  insects;  in  3  weeks  it  will   make  good  vinegar, 
which  is  preferred  by  many  people  to  cider  vinegar. 

Currant  Vinegar. — Tol  gallon  of  pure  soft  water  add  3  cups  brown  sugar  and 
5  cups  strained  currant  juice;  keep  in  a  warm  place  (from  70°  to  90°)  and  it  will 
form  vinegar.  Or,  mash  the  currants,  let  stand  over  night,  strain,  and  let  the 
juice  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  fermentation  ceases.  White  currants  will  make 
a  delicate,  pale  vinegar. 

Gooseberry  Vinegar. — Take  ripe  gooseberries,  mash  them,  and  to  each  quart 
add  1%.  quarts  soft  water,  milk  warm;  let  it  stand  24  hours,  strain  it,  and  add  1  lb. 
coarse  brown  sugar  to  each  quart;  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  in  the  kitchen, 
and  in  2  or  3  months  it  will  make  fine  vinegar.  It  will  be  superior  to  much  that 
is  sold  as  white  wine  vinegar. 

Honey  Vinegar. — Mix  thoroughly  into  1  gallon  of  warm  soft  water,  2  cups  of 
clear  honey;  cover  and  let  it  ferment,  when  it  will  make  good  vinegar. 

Molasses  Vinegar. — To  each  gallon  of  warm  soft  water  add  1  pint  molasses 
and  %  CUP  yeast;  keep  warm  and  in  3  weeks  it  will  make  vinegar. 

Potato  Vinegar. — Take  the  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled,  and  to  a 
gallon  add  3^  cup  hop  yeast  and  2  cups  sugar;  cover  with  netting,  let  stand 
exposed  to  the  sun  or  in  a  warm  place,  and  in  about  a  month  it  will  make  good  vin- 
egar. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — Put  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar  and  add  enough  vinegar 
to  cover  them;  let  stand  6  days  covered  over,  but  stirring  occasionally;  then 
strain  through  flannel;  add  sugar  pint  for  pint,  boil  %  hour,  skim,  and  bottle 
when  cold. 

Rhubarb  Vinegar. — Crush  the  rhubarb,  cover  with  lukewarm  water,  and  let 
stand  36  hours;  then  strain,  add  1%  lbs.  raw  sugar  or  molasses  to  the  gallon  of 
juice,  and  also  add  a  little  yeast;  keep  it  covered  and  in  a  warm  place  for  4  weeks; 
then  strain;  put  in  a  keg  and  leave  it  to  ripen. 

Sorghum  Vinegar. — Use  about  4  gallons  of  water  to  1  gallon  of  sorghum;  keep 
it  in  a  warm  place,  or  in  the  sun  covered  with  netting,  and  it  will  turn  to  vinegar. 
Adding  a  little  yeast  will  hasten  the  process. 

Tomato  vinegar  can  be  made  of  it  by  adding  1  gallon  of  ripe  tomotoes  at  the 
same  time  that  the  sorghum  is  added. 

Sugar  Vinegar. — To  1  gallon  of  water  add  1%  lbs.  raw  sugar,  and  J^pint  yeast; 
keep  it  at  about  80°;  in  4  days  it  can  be  drawn  off,  when  add  1  oz.  each  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  chopped  raisins;  in  a  few  weeks  it  will  be  ready  to  bottle. 

Yeast  Vinegar.— Put  into  an  open  keg  or  jar  2  quarts  of  hop  yeast  sponge  (set 
and  allowed  to  get  light  as  for  bread);  add  5  lbs.  sugar  or  molasses,  5  gallons  of 
soft  water,  and  2  quarts  of  corn  which  has  been  boiled  until  tender  (adding  it 
when  cold);  keep  it  covered  and  in  3  weeks  it  will  make  fine  vinegar. 

Aromatic  Vinegar. — Take  15  grains  of  oil  of  cloves;  10  grains  oil  of  cinnamon; 
5  grains  of  oil  of  lavender;  1  oz.  of  camphor,  %  pint  glacial  acetic  acid;  mix  and 
bottle.  Aromatic  vinegar  is  a  nasal  stimulant  useful  for  reviving  and  refreshing 
those  who  suffer  from  faintness  and  nervous  headaches. 

Spiced  Vinegar. — Mix  and  tie  in  small  muslin  bags,  1  oz.  each  of  allspice, 
celery  seed,  cloves,  turmeric,  mace,  pepper,  ground  mustard  and  white  ginger  cut 
small;  add  3  cups  sugar  and  1}4  gallons  vinegar;  keep  closely  covered  and  use  as 
needed. 


BEVERAGES. 

When  it  is  remembered  that  about  87$  of  the  body  consists  of  water,  which  is 
constantly  evaporating  and  passing  away,  and  which  must  be  regularly  renewed, 
the  necessity  and  importance  of  beverages  will  be  readily  seen.  Water  is  the 
most  natural  drink  for  man,  and  however  it  may  be  flavored  or  disguised  it  is  the 
chief  ingredient  in  all  his  beverages.  Not  less  than  3%  pints  a  day  are  needed  by 
an  ordinary  person,  and  those  who  are  very  large  or  active  may  need  4  or  5  pints 
daily.  Although  water  is  found  in  all  the  food  we  take,  a  large  proportion  of  the 
needed  amount  must  be  taken  in  the  form  of  beverages.  Although  in  hot  weather 
cold  drinks  are  very  refreshing,  and  within  proper  limits  are  not  objectionable,  at 
other  times  they  often  chill  the  digestive  organs  and  depress  the  nerve  centers, 
so  that  there  is  reason  as  well  as  pleasure  in  the  use  of  hot  drinks. 

TEA. 

Of  all  the  beverages  devised  by  man  tea  is  probably  the  most  extensively  used. 

To  Make  Tea. — Allow  1  teaspoon  of  tea  for  each  cup  water,  and  an  extra  one  for 
the  pot.  This  is  the  old  rule,  but  it  varies  somewhat  with  the  quality  of  the  tea, 
less  being  required  of  the  finer  grades  than  of  the  cheap  teas,  and  as  the  finer 
grades  go  farther  they  are  not  so  much  more  expensive  in  the  end.  If  much  is 
made  at  once  the  proportion  can  be  reduced  a  little.  Pour  boiling  water  into  the 
teapot,  let  it  stand  until  the  pot  is  heated  through;  then  pour  out  the  water,  put 
in  the  tea,  and  pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot,  cover  closely,  and  set  it  for  3  to  5 
minutes  where  it  will  keep  hot  but  without  boiling.  English  breakfast  tea  may 
stand  3  and  black  tea  5  minutes;  then  pour  into  the  cups. 

Iced  Tea  (Russian  Recipe). — Tea  for  icing  should  be  made  rather  stronger 
than  when  intended  for  drinking  hot,  letting  the  boiling  water  stand  on  the  tea 
for  7  minutes;  then  pour  the  tea  from  the  leaves,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  stand  it  in 
a  refrigerator  for  5  or  6  hours.  Serve  it  in  a  bowl  with  lumps  of  ice  and  slices  of 
lemon  floating  in  it.  Have  a  pitcher  of  ice  water  at  hand  to  weaken  it  for  those 
who  think  it  too  strong.  In  serving  it  each  person  should  receive  a  lump  of  ice 
and  a  slice  of  lemon. 

Iced  Tea  No.  2. — For  each  tumbler  of  water  allow  1  teaspoon  of  the  best  tea; 

put  the  tea,  water  and  lumps  of  ice  into  an  earthen  vessel  and  stand  in  the 

refrigerator  5  or  6  hours.    Easier  than  the  former  method. 

The  Principles  Involved.— Experiments  have  shown  that  five-sixths  of  the  valuable 
qualities  are  extracted  from  tea  by  boiling  water  in  3  minutes,  and  in  10  minutes  the  leaves 
are  nearly  exhausted.  If  the  leaves  are  steeped  a  second  time,  or  if  they  remain  too  long 
in  the  hot  water,  the  aroma  is  wasted,  the  tannin  is  extracted  which  makes  the  tea  bitter, 
and  it  then  disorders  the  digestion.  Much  of  the  evil  wrought  by  tea  is  caused  by  this  too 
long  infusion,  which  extracts  a  large  part  of  its  tannin.  The  object  to  aim  at  is  to 
extract  as  much  as  possible  of  the  theine  and  volatile  oil,  and  as  little  as  possible  of  the 
tannin.  "When  the  infusion  is  once  complete,  adding  fresh  tea  adds  very  little  to  the 
strength;  if  more  tea  is  wanted,  empty  out  the  old  leaves,  scald  the  pot,  and  make  fresh 
tea  as  before.  The  following  are  the  i  essentials  for  good  tea:  (1)  Usegoodtea,  and  the 
right  amount  of  it.  (2)  Have  the  water  boiling  hot  (not  lukewarm)  when  poured  on.  (3)  Have 
the  teapot  hot  before  the  tea  and  water  are  put  in.  (4)  Do  not  let  it  steep  too  long.  Stewed 
tea  is  no  good. 

If  tea  is  required  quickly,  put  it  into  the  teapot  and  stand  it  in  the  oven 
while  the  water  is  coming  to  the  boil;  as  soon  as  that  is  boiling  hot  pour  it  on  the 
tea,  and  in  a  minute  it  can  be  served. 

The  Teapot. — A.  china  teapot  is  the  best  to  use.  Do  not  use  tin,  because  a 
poisonous  compound  is  produced  by  the  action  on  the  metal  of  the  tannic  acid  of 
the  tea.    The  teapot  should  be  clean  and  dry  before  using. 

The  Water  Used. — In  making  tea  the  water  used  is  an  important  consideration. 
Soft  water  is  better  than  hard,  but  if  it  is  too  soft  it  is  apt  to  extract  too  much 

(347) 


'M  BEVERAGES. 

of  the  general  properties  of  the  tea  and  sacrifice  its  delicacy  of  flavor,  and  if  too 
hard  it  does  not  extract  the  theine  and  volatile  oil  readily  enough.  Do  not  use  water 
which  has  been  twice  boiled,  or  which  has  boiled  long  before  being  used,  because 
boiling  expels  the  air  and  gases  and  makes  the  water  flat  and  tasteless.  This  is 
really  an  important  item — far  more  important  than  many  people  imagine.  The 
more  rapidly  the  water  is  heated  the  better  the  tea.  When  the  water  is  poured 
on  the  tea  it  should  be  boiling  hot,  and  not  either  cold  or  lukewarm,  and  it  should 
be  poured  on  as  soon  as  it  boils.  If  poured  on  cold  and  brought  to  a  boil  it  will 
extract  the  tannic  acid,  injuring  both  the  flavor  and  the  value  of  the  tea.  Carbon- 
ate of  soda  has  been  sometimes  used  in  making  tea;  it  may  soften  very  hard 
water,  but  it  will  spoil  the  flavor  and  effect  of  the  tea. 

Hints. — With  some  persons  the  sleeplessness  and  headache  caused  by  drink- 
ing tea  is  prevented  by  putting  in  a  slice  of  lemon  instead  of  the  milk. 

Weak  green  tea  with  a  little  sugar  and  lemon  juice  in  it,  but  no  milk,  is  a  very 
refreshing  drink  in  cases  of  fever,  taken  either  hot  or  cold. 

The  tea  plant  {Thea  sinensis)  is  native  to  China,  Japan  and  Northern  India.  The  use  of 
the  dried  leaves  is  said  to  have  been  introduced  into  China  from  Corea  in  the  4th  century, 
and  from  thence  to  Japan,  and  to  have  been  brought  to  Europe  by  the  Dutch  East  India 
Company  in  the  17th  century.  The  leaves  of  the  tea  plant  can  only  be  gathered  at  certain 
seasons.  The  first  picking  is  in  April.  It  yields  the  finest  tea,  but  little  of  it  is  shipped 
abroad,  as  a  sea  voyage  injures  its  delicate  flavor.  This  tea  is  largely  used  by  the  wealthy  - 
Chinese,  and  some  of  it  is  carried  overland  to  Russia.  The  next  picking  is  in  May,  and  a 
third,  later  in  the  season,  furnishes  the  inferior  teas  which  are  bitterer  and  more  woody 
than  that  gathered  earlier.  Tea  leaves  are  dried  in  pans  which  are  heated  over  smokeless 
fires.  Green  teas  are  dried  quickly  to  preserve  their  color,  while  black  teas  are  exposed  to 
the  air  for  a  time  and  undergo  a  sort  of  fermentation  which  darkens  them.  In  tea  produc- 
ing countries  the  decoction  is  drunk  alone  without  flavoring;  in  other  countries  something 
is  added.  The  Germans  often  flavor  it  with  rum,  cinnamon  or  vanilla.  The  Russians 
squeeze  in  lemon  juice,  while  some  savage  tribes  in  Tartary  boil  the  leaves  with  soda,  season 
them  with  butter  and  salt,  and  eat  them. 

Tea  contains  an  alkaloid  called  theine,  which  is  similar  to  the  caffeine  in  coffee,  and 
theobromine  in  cocoa.  Besides  this  it  contains  a  volatile  oil,  some  tannic  acid,  and  some 
ordinary  food  substances.  Its  volatile  or  essential  oil  is  developed  during  drying  and 
roasting,  and  ought  not  to  escape,  as  upon  this  its  market  value  depends  more  than  on 
anything  else.  The  volatile  oil,  as  well  as  the  theine  and  tannin,  is  more  abundant  in 
green  than  in  black  tea.  As  ordinarily  made,  3  times  as  much  theine  is  obtained  from  tea 
as  from  coffee,  The  nutritive  element  in  tea  is  very  small,  it  being  a  stimulant  rather  than 
a  food,  but,  "it  aids  the  assimilation  and  transformation  of  other  foods,  increases  cheerful- 
ness and  activity,  clears  and  quickens  the  brain,  and  lessens  the  desire  to  sleep."  It  warms 
the  body  when  cold,  cools  it  when  hot  by  promoting  the  prespiration  of  the  skin,  and  has 
an  astringent  action  on  the  bowels.  Tea  contains  from  2  to  4%  of  theine,  about  1%  of 
essential  oil,  M%  of  tannin,  and  20%  of  nitrogenous  matter  insoluble  in  water.  Taken  to 
excess  it  acts  like  a  vegetable  poison,  and  with  young  people  it  is  liable  to  interfere  with 
the  proper  development  of  the  nervous  system. 

COFFEE. 

It  is  safe  to  say  that  a  large  percentage  of  the  people  who  use  coffee  never 
drank  a  really  first  class  cup  of  it,  and  a  large  proportion  of  the  stuff  served  as 
coffee  is  unworthy  of  the  name.  And  yet  good  coffee  is  not  difficult  to  make  if  it 
is  handled  intelligently. 

The  water  used  should  be  fresh  and  clear.  Long  boiling  of  the  water  expels 
the  air  and  gases,  and  makes  it  flat  and  insipid.  It  should  therefore  be  used  as 
soon  as  it  boils,  and  this  is  a  much  more  important  item  than  many  people  imag- 
ine. Do  not  reboil  the  water,  nor  let  it  boil  long  before  being  used,  or  the  best 
results  cannot  be  obtained. 

The  roasting  of  the  coffee  is  also  an  important  matter.  It  is  best  roasted  and 
ground  just  before  it  is  used.  If  more  is  roasted  than  is  needed  for  immediate 
use  it  should  be  kept  in  an  air-tight  glass  jar  or  canister;  if  exposed  to  the  air  it 
deteriorates.  Unpleasant  odors  and  moisture  are  readily  absorbed  by  it,  so  keep 
it  in  a  dry  and  clean  place.  To  roast  coffee,  put  the  desired  quantity  into  a  per- 
fectly clean,  broad  dripping  pan;  have  a  moderate  heat  at  first,  shake  and  stir 
frequently;  after  20  or  30  minutes  increase  the  heat  and  stir  frequently  until  it  is 
an  even  chestnut  or  "coffee  color."  If  any  berries  are  burned  they  must  be 
picked  out  and  thrown  away,  or  they  will  spoil  the  coffee.  Remember  that  the 
peculiar  and  delightful  aroma  of  coffee  is  due  to  the  changes  in  one  or  more  oils 
produced  by  this  roasting;  in  raw  berries  it  is  lacking.  When  properly  roasted 
these  elements  constitute  about  13$  of  the  berry.  If  not  heated  sufficiently  the 
aroma  is  not  properly  developed;  if  heated  too  much  the  flavor  is  again  dissi- 
pated. 

When  the  berries  are  properly  browned,  lift  the  pan  from  the  stove  to  the 


BEVERAGES.  349 

table  and  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  the  beaten  white  of  2  eggs  to  each 
pound  of  coffee,  stirring  it  quickly  and  well  that  each  berry  may  be  glazed.  This 
helps  to  develop  the  aroma,  and  also  to  confine  it  in  the  berry  until  let  out  by 
grinding.  All  the  coffee  which  is  not  used  at  once  should  be  put  into  a  sieve, 
when  cold,  and  shaken  to  break  apart  any  berries  which  stick  together;  then  put 
it  into  an  air-tight  canister. 

If  coffee  is  bought  at  the  store  roasted  but  not  ground,  each  time  any  is  used 
put  into  the  frying  pan  what  you  want  for  that  meal,  but  nO  more;  heat  it  over  a 
quick  fire  until  the  aroma  is  perceptible,  shaking  it  constantly  and  adding  barely 
enough  butter  to  gloss  but  not  make  it  greasy;  then  grind  it  at  once  and  use  it. 
If  it  was  ground  at  home  and  buttered,  reheat  it  and  use  the  same  way,  but  with- 
out buttering  it.  This  freshens  it  and  developes  its  aroma.  Remember  that  the 
coffee  should  always  go  hot  from  the  frying  pan  to  the  coffee  mill,  and  from  the 
mill  to  the  coffee  pot,  if  you  want  the  best  results.  If  ground  coffee  is  used,  that 
can  also  be  heated  until  the  aroma  is  perceptible,  before  adding  the  water. 

Grinding  the  Coffee.— Be  sure  your  coffee  is  ground  right.  Most  grocers 
grind  the  coffee  too  coarse,  so  that  much  more  coffee  is  used  than  necessary, 
because  in  coarse  coffee  the  flavor  is  not  readily  extracted.  If  you  grind  it  your- 
self make  it  about  like  coarse  corn  meal — not  coarser  than  that.  If  your  grocer  grinds 
it,  make  him  grind  it  the  same  way.  He  may  not  like  to,  but  it  is  the  best  and 
most  economical  way,  and  insist  on  it.  If  it  is  too  fine  (say  as  fine  as  flour),  on  the 
other  hand,  it  will  clog  the  strainer.  It  is  too  coarse  if  it  is  like  rice  or  coarse  oat- 
meal. 

Over-boiling. — The  tannic  acid  in  coffee  should  not  be  extracted  or  it  will 
make  the  coffee  bitter,  and  it  will  also  disorder  the  stomach  more;  5  minutes  is 
the  limit  to  which  coffee  should  be  boiled  to  avoid  this,  while  3  minutes  is  better. 
It  is  an  erroneous  idea  that  the  longer  coffee  boils  the  stronger  and  better  it  is. 
After  the  caffeine  and  aroma  are  extracted,  further  boiling  is  a  detriment.  Cover 
the  spout  also  when  boiling  coffee  in  a  coffee  pot,  that  the  aroma  may  not  escape 
through  it.  The  one  great  object  in  making  coffee  is  to  extract  and  retain  the 
caffeine  and  aromatic  essential  oils,  without  extracting  the  tannin,  and  any 
method  which  does  this  is  a  good  method. 

The  Cream  and  Sugar. — The  milk  served  with  coffee  should  be  scalding  hot, 
but  should  not  be  boiled.  A  pitcher  of  milk  can  be  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 
brought  nearly  to  the  boiling  point  day  after  day,  without  injuring  the  china. 
Some  persons  find  the  taste  of  boiled  milk  objectionable.  Serve  cream  also  if  you 
can;  1  tablespoon  of  cream  and  2  of  hot  milk  is  about  right.  If  the  coffee  is  very 
strong,  fill  the  cup  %  to  %  ruH  °f  coffee,  and  fill  it  up  with  hot  milk;  this  is  much 
better  than  diluting  the  coffee  with  water.  Never  fill  a  cup  quite  full — it  must 
not  run  over.  Allow  each  guest  to  add  the  sugar  to  his  taste,  unless  it  is  one  of 
the  family  whose  taste  you  know.  A  very  pretty  effect  is  produced  by  placing  on 
the  surface  of  each  cup  a  teaspoon  of  whipped  cream. 

Settling  the  Coffee. — Isinglass,  fish  skins,  eggs  and  cold  water  are  used  to  clear 
or  settle  coffee.  Egg  shells  can  be  washed  and  saved  for  this  purpose,  2  or  3  of 
them  being  enough  to  clear  a  quart  of  coffee;  they  answer  about  as  well  as  the 
egg  itself,  and  are  less  expensive. 

The  Coffee  Pot. — As  good  coffee  as  was  ever  tasted  can  be  made  with  a  common 
coffee  pot,  but  some  prefer  a  French  biggin  or  some  other  device.  Those  who 
like  these  improvements  and  find  them  a  help  can  use  them,  but  do  not  imagine 
that  they  are  really  necessary  in  order  to  make  good  coffee,  for  they  are  not.  But 
whatever  coffee  pot  is  used  must  be  absolutely  clean— not  even  milk  pans  require 
more  scrupulous  cleanliness.  Every  time  the  coffee  pot  is  used  it  should  be 
thoroughly  cleaned,  spout  and  all.  If  neglected,  or  if  the  coffee  is  allowed  to 
stand  long  in  the  pot,  a  sort  of  black,  greasy  deposit  will  form  on  the  inside,  and 
it  will  spoil  all  coffee  made  in  the  pot  while  it  is  there.  So  wash,  scald  and  dry 
the  pot  each  time  after  being  used.  Dry  each  piece  of  a  French  coffee  pot 
separately.  Scald  it  out  with  hot  water — cold  water  sets  the  greasy  film,  and  is 
worse  than  useless.  Do  not  use  any  soap  or  soapy  water,  but  fresh,  hot  water 
merely.  If  the  pot  has  been  neglected,  and  is  coated,  put  in  a  tablespoon  of 
washing  soda,  fill  it  with  water,  and  boil  it  for  a  long  time;  then  scrub  it  out 
well,  rinse  it  with  hot  water,  and  dry  it.  Boil  the  strainers  and  all  parts  in  the 
soda  water,  and  scrub  them  also.  Do  not  heat  the  coffee  pot  too  hot  in  drying  it, 
or  the  next  coffee  made  in  it  will  taste  burnt, 


350  BEVERAGES. 

Essentials  of  Making  Coffee. — The  essentials  of  making  good  coffee  are  the 
following:  (1)  Have  good  coffee,  and  use  the  right  quantity  of  it.  (2)  Have  it 
hot  so  that  there  is  a  perceptible  smell  of  the  aroma  before  it  goes  to  the  coffee 
pot.  (3)  Cook  it  just  long  enough  to  extract  all  the  caffeine  and  aroma,  with- 
out getting  the  tannic  acid.  (4)  Serve  it  hot  at  once,  and  with  hot  milk.  (5) 
Be  sure  the  coffee  pot  is  clean  and  in  good  condition. 

There  are  many  ways  of  making  coffee.  It  may  be  boiled  or  unboiled,  made 
in  a  plain  coffee  pot  or  a  French  biggin  or  "grecque"  and  so  on.  While  the  object 
aimed  at  is  the  same  in  all  cases  the  modus  operandi  must  vary  with  the  coffee 
pot  used,  etc.  We  will  explain  a  few  of  the  best  methods,  with  and  without  the 
biggin.  But  remember  that  by  no  process  will  the  result  be  satisfactory  unless 
good  coffee  is  used,  and,  also,  if  you  would  have  really  good  coffee  you  must  take 
pains  with  it.  If  you  will  observe  the  principles  which  underlie  the  process  you 
can  serve  up  most  delicious  coffee  which  will  make  glad  the  hearts  of  those  who 
drink  it. 

Amount  of  Coffee  to  Use. — Allow  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  ground  coffee  for 
each  cup  of  water;  this  is  the  standard  rule,  but  if  a  large  quantity  is  made  the 
proportion  can  be  a  little  less. 

Filtered  Coffee  Without  Egg. — Have  the  coffee  heated  hot,  pour  on  the  water 
boiling  hot,  cover  closely,  let  it  stand  5  minutes,  strain  it  through  muslin  (having 
it  wrung  out  of  hot  water)  into  the  coffee  pot  (having  that  heated);  cover  it,  set 
it  on  the  stove  and  heat  a  moment  (not  boil)  and  serve.  Have  the  milk  thoroughly 
hot.    The  coffee  may  be  heated  in  a  pan  or  pitcher  if  more  convenient. 

Boiled  Coffee  Without  Egg.— Scald  the  coffee  pot;  put  in  the  coffee,  pour  on 
the  water  boiling  hot,  stir  it  well,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  move  it  to  the  back  of  the 
range  keeping  it  hot  without  further  boiling;  add  3^  cup  of  cold  water,  let  stand 
5  minutes,  turn  out  1  cup  coffee,  pour  back  into  the  pot,  do  the  same  again,  let 
stand  5  minutes  to  settle,  and  serve.  Boiled  coffee  has  a  different  flavor  from  the 
filtered,  and  many  prefer  it. 

Boiled  Coffee  With  Egg. — Scald  the  coffee  pot;  put  in  the  coffee  and  egg  shell, 
(or  the  egg  or  isinglass  if  they  are  used  instead);  add  the  water,  boiling  hot,  cover 
closely,  and  boil  3  to  5  minutes — no  more.  Set  where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not 
boil;  pour  in  %  cup  of  cold  water;  pour  out  1  cup  of  coffee  to  clear  the  spout  and 
pour  it  back  again;  let  stand  10  minutes,  and  serve. 

Freuch  Coffee  With  Cold  Water.— Heat  the  coffee,  put  it  in  the  filter  of  a 
French  coffee  pot  or  biggin,  add  a  very  little  cold  water,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time; 
let  it  stand  30  to  60  minutes,  then  pour  in  the  balance  of  the  water  slowly,  a  cup- 
ful at  a  time;  when  it  has  all  filtered  through  turn  it  out,  and  pour  it  through 
the  filter  again;  cover  it  tightly,  and  when  ready  to  serve  bring  it  just  to  a  boil 
(never  boil  it)  and  serve  immediately.  Coffee  can  be  made  thus  at  your  leisure, 
and  not  heated  until  ready  to  serve  it. 

French  Coffee  with  Boiling  Water. — Heat  the  coffee,  put  it  into  the  filter  of 
the  biggin,  and  pour  on  just  enough  boiling  water  to  moisten  it  well;  let  stand  5 
minutes,  and  pour  on  the  balarce  of  the  water  slowly,  a  cupful  at  a  time,  and 
wait  2  or  3  minutes  between  each  cup;  if  wanted  very  strong  turn  out  the  coffee 
and  pour  it  through  the  filter  again;  serve  at  once.  This  coffee  should  never 
boil;  the  best  way  to  avoid  this  is  to  set  the  coffee  pot  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
while  the  water  is  being  filtered  through  the  coffee. 

Coffee  by  a  Simple  Method.— Heat  the  coffee,  tie  it  in  a  muslin  bag;  scald  the 
coffee  pot,  suspend  the  bag  in  it,  pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot  (be  sure  it  covers 
the  bag),  let  it  stand  10  minutes  where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil,  and  serve. 
This  answers  somewhat  the  same  purpose  as  the  French  biggin,  but  can  be  used 
by  those  who  do  not  have  one. 

Steamed  Coffee. — This  can  be  made  in  a  double  boiler  kept  for  the  purpose, 


BEVERAGES.  351 

or  by  setting  the  coffee  pot  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  steam  20  minutes,  then 
strain  it  into  a  heated  coffee  pot,  and  serve. 

Coffee  with  Cold  Water. — Let  the  coffee  and  water  stand  all  night  in  an 
earthen  or  china  pot,  closely  covered;  in  the  morning  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
merely,  and  serve.    No  clearing  or  straining  is  needed. 

Cafe"  Noir.— This  is  a  French  term  meaning  literally  "black  coffee."  It  can  be 
made  like  other  coffee,  but  very  strong,  using  twice  as  much  coffee  (2  tablespoons) 
for  each  cup  of  water.  It  is  served  in  small  cups  with  sugar,  but  no  milk  or 
cream  are  served  with  it. 

Cafe  au  Lait. — This  is  a  French  term  meaning  "coffee  and  milk."  It  is  simply 
very  strong  coffee,  to  which  is  added  a  large  proportion  of  good  hot  milk — half  and 
half  being  the  proportions.    Sweeten  to  taste. 

Vienna  Coffee. — This  consists  simply  in  adding  to  each  cup  of  coffee  3  table- 
spoons of  whipped  cream.  Equal  parts  of  whipped  cream  and  beaten  white  of 
egg  are  sometimes  used. 

Iced  Coffee. — Make  a  quart  of  extra  strong  coffee  and  let  it  get  cold;  beat  2  eggs 
very  light,  stir  into  them  2  cups  milk  and  4  tablespoons  cream;  sweeten  to  taste, 
and  stand  in  the  refrigerator  5  or  6  hours.  Serve  with  a  lump  of  ice  in  the  pitcher. 
If  no  refrigerator  is  at  hand  the  pitcher  can  be  set  for  1  hour  in  a  pail  of  ice  and 
salt  (%  ice  to  %  salt);  take  care  that  it  does  not  freeze.  Iced  tea  can  be  cooled 
the  same  way. 

Caramel  Coffee. — Use  caramel  made  as  directed  elsewhere  for  "Caramel."  Add  1 
teaspoon  of  good  ground  coffee  for  each  %  cup  of  the  caramel;  let  it  boil  for  a 
minute,  strain  it,  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  hot  milk,  or  milk  and  cream.  Chil- 
dren like  it;  so  do  "children  of  a  larger  growth." 

Substitutes  for  Coffee. — Take  4  cups  unground  wheat  or  rye,  add  %  cup  molas- 
ses, rub  all  together  with  your  hands,  and  brown  it  in  the  oven  like  genuine  cof- 
fee. When  used,  grind  and  put  it  in  a  muslin  bag  and  boil  it  in  a  coffee  pot;  very 
good  and  slightly  nutritious.  If  desired,  it  can  be  mixed  with  genuine  coffee 
when  used. 

Oatmeal,  ground  barley  or  graham  flour  can  be  browned  and  used  also.  In 
using  them  allow  1  tablespoon  to  a  cup  of  water;  moisten  it  with  a  little  cold 
water,  pour  on  the  water  boiling  hot,  and  let  stand  10  minutes. 

Corn  Coffee.— Roasted  sweet  corn,  browned  without  popping  or  hardening,  is 
easily  broken  in  a  mortar,  and  makes  a  delicious  drink  for  invalids,  children,  and 
those  who  cannot  drink  coffee.    Try  it. 

Cornmeal  can  also  be  roasted  brown  and  used;  boil  5  minutes  and  strain;  a 
little  salt  can  be  added  to  improve  the  flavor. 

These  substitutes  for  coffee  contain  no  caffeine,  nor  anything  similar  to  it,  so  that  they 
possess  no  power  as  stimulants.  Their  value  is  simply  that  of  hot  water  containing  a  little 
flavoring  and  nourishment,  which  is  increased  by  the  milk  and  sugar  used. 

Coffee.— The  origin  of  the  use  of  coffee  is  involved  in  obscurity.  It  was  not  known  to 
the  Greeks  and  Romans.  It  was  introduced  into  Europe  in  the  17th  century.  Mocha  is  an 
Arabian  coffee.  The  brands  from  Central  and  South  America  were  formerly  considered 
inferior,  but  some  of  the  best  coffees  now  come  from  those  regions.  Maracaibo  is  often  sold 
for  Java,  and  is  quite  as  good.  Unground  coffee  is  adulterated  very  little,  but  the  ground 
coffee  is  almost  universally  adulterated. 

"Coffee,"  says  Prof.  Johnstone,  "exhilarates,  arouses  and  keeps  awake;  it  counteracts 
the  stupor  occasioned  by  fatigue,  by  disease,  or  opium,  it  allays  hunger  to  a  certain  extent; 
it  gives  to  the  weary  increased  strength  and  vigor,  and  it  imparts  a  feeling  of  comfort  and 
repose."  It  appears  to  make  the  brain  more  active,  and  the  demand  for  food  less,  by  check- 
ing the  change  and  waste  of  the  body.  Taken  in  excess,  it  produces  tremors  and  contrac- 
tions of  the  muscles,  and  an  exhilaration  somewhat  like  that  of  alcohol.  It  is  not  so  stim- 
ulating as  tea,  and  it  does  not  increase  the  perspiration  so  much.  It  owes  its  stimulating 
effect  to  the  caffeine  and  aromatic  oils.  It  contains  only  about  155  of  caffeine  and  4%  of  tan- 
nin, and  is  therefore  less  injurious  than  tea  to  the  coatings  of  the  stomach. 

Coffee  loses  20  to  3055  in  roasting,  but  the  roasting  accomplishes  several  things.  It  makes 
it  brittle  and  easily  ground;  the  aromatic  properties  are  developed  as  previously  explained; 


352  BEVERAGES. 

the  tannin  and  other  properties  are  rendered  partly  soluble  in  water,  and  its  sugar  is  all 
converted  into  caramel;  this  gives  color  and  part  of  the  flavor  to  the  coffee. 

The  color  and  flavor  may  be  increased  by  mixing  a  little  caramel  with  the  ground  coffee,  a 
fact  which  many  people  do  not  understand. 

Mixing  Coffee.—  Coffee  can  be  mixed  to  obtain  different  flavors.  Eio  and  Santas  are 
strong,  while  Java,  Mocha  and  Maracaibo  are  mild  coffees.  A  rich,  delicate  flavored  coffee 
is  obtained  by  using  M  Java  and  %  Mocha,  and  that  is  probably  the  most  popular  mixture. 
Some  mix  them  half  and  half.  For  a  strong  coffee  use  Eio  alone,  or  temper  it  as  desired  by 
mixing  some  of  the  milder  brands  with  it.  Some  people  like  equal  parts  of  Eio,  Mocha  and 
Java. 

Keeping  Coffee. — Green  coffee,  that  is  the  unroasted  bean,  not  only  does  not  lose  its 
flavor  but  actually  improves  by  keeping  for  2  or  3  years.  It  can  advantageously  be  bought 
by  the  sack  when  the  market  is  favorable,  and  it  should  be  of  a  yellowish  or  brownish  shade 
and  well  seasoned.  Store  it  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  As  coffee  readily  absorbs  bad  odors  noth- 
ing strongly  odorous  should  be  stored  near  it;  much  coffee  has  thus  been  ruined. 

Chicory.— This  is  prepared  by  cutting  the  roots  of  the  chicory  plant  (Cicorium  intibus) 
into  small  pieces  and  roasting  them,  much  as  coffee  is  roasted.  It  was  first  mixed  with  cof- 
fee by  the  Dutch,  but  is  now  used  in  all  countries.  While  it  is  properly  an  adulteration,  it 
is  not  deleterious.  It  does  not  possess  any  trace  of  the  alkaloid  caffeine,  which  is  one  of  the 
peculiar  properties  of  coffee,  but  it  does  possess  an  aromatic  oil,  starch,  sugar  (which 
will  turn  to  caramel  in  roasting),  nitrogenous  substances  and  salts.  It  is  used  by  some 
people  as  an  independent  beverage.    It  will  give  body,  color  and  bitterness  to  coffee,  and 

Eossibly  modify  its  stimulant  effect  by  acting   as  a  diuretic,  sedative  and  tonic.    Some 
ousekeepers  add  chicory  to  their  coffee,  using  1  to  4  oz.  of  chicory  to  a  pound  of  coffee.  Un- 
fortunately, chicory  is  often  adulterated,  as  well  as  coffee. 

COCOA. 

To  Make  Cocoa. — To  %  gallon  of  water  add  1  gill  of  broken  cocoa,  and  let  it 
boil  gently  until  reduced  %  (about  2  hours);  equal  parts  of  shells  and  cocoa  can 
be  used  if  preferred.  If  it  cools  and  the  fat  is  taken  from  the  surface,  and  it  is 
then  heated  again,  it  will  digest  more  easily.  Serve  with  cream,  or  scalded  milk, 
and  sugar.  Cocoa  can  be  flavored  by  adding  a  little  vanilla  extract  if  desired.  In 
Spain,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  musk  are  also  used  to  flavor  it. 

To  Use  Prepared  Cocoa. — Allow  2  teaspoons  to  a  cup;  add  enough  cold  milk 
to  form  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  equal  parts  boiling  milk  and  boiling  water,  and 
stir  all  together  well.  There  are  many  preparations  of  cocoa,  some  of  which  are 
recommended  for  preparation  at  the  table,  but  all  cocoa  is  better  for  being  boiled 
1  or  2  minutes.    Use  hot  milk  to  dilute  it. 

Cocoa  Shells. — In  use  allow  %  CUP  °f  the  shells  to  1  cup  of  water;  pour  on  the 
water  boiling  hot  and  let  them  simmer  gently  3  or  4  hours;  as  the  water  boils 
away  add  more;  then  strain,  and  serve.  Sugar  and  cream,  or  hot  milk,  goes 
with  it. 

Iced  Cocoa. — Make  the  cocoa  in  the  usual  way,  and  for  each  2  cups  beat  in  % 
cup  whipped  cream;  sweeten  to  taste,  let  stand  till  cold,  and  serve  in  glasses  con- 
taining a  little  chipped  ice. 

Cocoa  is  made  from  the  seeds  of  the  Tliedbromo  cacao,  a  small  tree  which  grows  in  Cen- 
tral and  South  America  and  the  West  Indies.  The  fruit  is  shaped  like  a  cucumber;  the  out- 
side skin  is  thick,  the  pulp  sweet  and  palatable;  the  seeds  are  much  like  almonds,  with  a 
thin  skin,  and  the  kernel  is  dark,  bitter,  oily  and  aromatic. 

Cocoa  shells  are  the  husks  or  shells.  They  contain  little  fat,  but  have  more  astringent 
matter  than  the  seeds.  They  make  a  pleasant  and  wholesome  drink,  not  stimulating,  and 
well  suited  to  nervous  invalids  and  children.  They  need  long  boiling.  An  inferior  cocoa  is 
sometimes  made  by  grinding  the  shells  with  the  seeds. 

Cocoa  nibs  are  the  seeds  freed  from  the  husks,  roasted  and  cracked,  but  not  ground, 
although  some  of  the  fat  is  usually  removed.  Prepared  cocoa  is  made  by  grinding  the  ker- 
nel to  powder,  removing  some  of  the  fat,  and  adding  a  certain  amount  of  sugar  and  starch. 
Some  of  the  husk  is  ground  and  added  to  many  of  the  cheaper  cocoas,  as  an  adulteration. 

Thecocoa  bean  contains  about  1%  of  theobromine,  which  is  an  alkaloid  much  likecaffeine 
and  theine;  about  50%  of  fat;  from  14%  to  18%  of  nitrogenous  substance,  V«  of  which  is  soluble 
in  water;  4  %  of  starch,  and  about  7  %  of  an  astringent  principle  much  like  tannin. 

Chocolate  is  made  from  cocoa  nibs  ground  into  a  paste  by  machinery,  mixed  with  sugar, 
flavored,  and  pressed  into  molds  of  various  shapes.  It  is  the  most  convenient  and  nutri- 
tious way  of  preparing  cocoa.  It  does  not  stimulate  the  nervous  system  as  much  as  tea  and 
coffee  do,  and  .it  is  food  as  well  as  drink,  satisfying  hunger  to  some  extent.  Delicate  stom- 
achs will  digest  it  more  readily  if  the  oily  scum  is  removed  from  the  surface  after  it  is  boiled, 
but  for  healthy  people  the  scum  is  nutritious  and  need  not  be  removed. 

Coca  is  the  dried  leaf  of  the  Erythroxylon  Coca,  a  plant  resembling  the  blackthorn.  It 
is  used  by  the  inhabitants  of  Peru  and  Bolivia,  who  chew  the  leaves  and  make  an  infusion 
of  them.  It  is  estimated  that  8,000,000  people  use  it,  but  it  is  little  used  in  this  country, 
except  by  a  few  cyclists  or  pedestrians.  It  derives  its  special  properties  from  the  alkaloid 
cocaine.    It  is  a  powerful  stimulant  to  the  nervous  system  and  enables  fatigue  to  be  borne 


BEVERAGES.  353 

more  easily  for  a  time,  but  there  is  some  uncertainty  about  the  exact  effects  of  its  con- 
tinued use. 

Mate,  or  Paraguay  Tea  is  prepared  from  the  Brazillian  holly.  It  is  used  in  Paraguay 
and  Brazil,  but  very  little  in  this  country.  It  contains  1  or  %%  of  theine,  about  16%  of 
tannin,  some  aromatic  oil,  and  gluten.  It  acts  mainly  on  the  nervous  system,  but  also  affects 
the  digestive  system.  It  is  not  suitable  for  general  consumption,  and  is  very  injurious 
if  habitually  used. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To  Make  Chocolate. — Put  the  grated  chocolate  in  a  sauce-pan  and  dissolve  it 

in  a  very  little  boiling  water;  then  add  the  desired  amount  of  cold  milk,  bring  it 

slowly  to  a  boil,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

The  Spaniards  mix  chocolate  so  thick  that  a  spoon  can  stand  up  in  it.  Chocolate  is 
much  improved  by  frosting,  but  to  do  this  properly  a.  French  or  Italian  chocolatiere  is 
required,  with  a  whisk  passed  through  the  lid  so  that  it  can  be  whisked  while  coming  to 
the  boil. 

Chocolate  "Maillard's  Style." — Put  into  a  sauce-pan  %  cup  of  sugar,  a  table- 
spoon of  salt,  1  cup  grated  chocolate  and  1  cup  boiling  water  and  stir  until 
smooth;  then  add  1  cup  boiling  water  and  2  cups  boiling  milk  and  boil  1  minute 
only.  In  %  cup  of  cold  milk  dissolve  1  level  teaspoon  of  corn-starch;  stir  it  in, 
boil  1  minute  more,  take  from  the  fire,  add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavor,  and 
serve.    The  salt,  corn-starch  and  vanilla  add  to  its  richness  and  flavor. 

Chocolate  with  Egg. — Allow  for  each  person  1  large  tablespoon  of  grated 
chocolate;  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan  and  slowly  add  boiling  water,  stirring  and  boiling 
a  little  until  it  thickens;  then  pour  in  enough  milk  to  cool  it,  sweeten  with  sugar, 
and  stir  in  1  or  2  eggs  well  beaten,  using  more  or  less  as  desired;  make  up  the 
desired  quantity  by  adding  milk,  or  milk  and  water,  and  simmer,  not  boil,  10 
minutes;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  serve.  If  allowed  to  boil  after  adding  the  eggs 
they  will  become  "curdled." 

Whipped  Cream  is  best  to  serve  with  chocolate.  It  can  be  whipped  with  a 
Dover  egg  beater,  and  %  pint  is  enough  for  a  dozen  cups. 

Choca. — This  is  cafe  au  lait  and  chocolate  mixed  in  equal  quantities.  Many 
people  like  it  for  breakfast. 

MISCELLANEOUS  BEVERAGES. 

Apple  Water. — Take  tart  apples,  quarter,  core;  add  %  their  weight  of  sugar, 
cover  with  water,  and  simmer  till  tender;  strain  through  a  jelly  bag  and  cool. 
Put  pounded  ice  in  the  glass  when  you  drink  it. 

Blackberry  Nectar.— Crush  the  berries,  add  an  equal  amount  of  water,  and  1 
teaspoon  orange  juice  and  1  sliced  lemon  to  each  2  quarts;  let  stand  4  hours, 
strain  through  flannel,  and  to  1  quart  of  juice  add  1  cup  sugar.  Keep  on  ice  till 
ready  to  serve. 

Cherry  Acid. — Dissolve  3  oz.  citric  acid  in  1  quart  water,  pour  it  on  a  bowl  of 
cherries  and  let  stand  6  or  8  hours;  strain  off  the  juice,  pour  it  over  another  bowl 
of  cherries  and  let  stand  the  same  time;  strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1 
pint  sugar,  boil,  skim,  bottle,  and  cork  while  hot. 

Cocoanut  Beverage.— Break  2  cocoanuts,  saving  the  milk  carefully;  grate  the 
cocoanuts,  add  them  to  the  milk  and  also  4  pints  water;  put  in  a  sauce-pan,  and 
boil  5  minutes,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  continually  to  prevent  burning  (it 
will  ruin  it  to  burn);  then  strain,  add  %  lb.  powdered  sugar,  and  mix  well.  Ice 
it  and  serve. 

Cream  Soda. — Boil  together  for  3  or  4  minutes  V%  quarts  water ,4}^  cups  sugar, 
the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  2  oz.  tartaric  acid;  when  cold,  add  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  flour  blended  in  )£  cup  cold  water;  flavor  to 
taste,  bottle,  and  keep  cool.  To  use,  put  2  tablespoons  in  %  tumbler  of  water,  add 
a  saltspoon  of  soda,  and  drink  when  it  effervesces. 

23 


354  BEVERAGES. 

Currant  Shrub. — Mash  the  currants,  strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1 
pint  sugar,  boil  10  minutes,  and  bottle  when  cold.  If  used  at  once  it  need  not 
be  boiled. 

Currant  Water. — To  2  cups  red  currant  juice  add  %  cup  raspberry  juice,  2 
cups  white  sugar,  and  2  pints  water. 

Ginger  Beverage. — To  4  .cups  water  add  1  scant  cup  vinegar,  3  large  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  and  2  teaspoons  sifted  ginger.  Use  lemon  instead  of  vinegar  if 
preferred.  Another  recipe  is  4  cups  milk,  4  cups  water,  and  1  tablespoon  of 
ginger. 

Gooseberry  Shrub. — Take  green  gooseberries,  pour  on  boiling  water  to  cover, 
let  stand  till  cool  with  a  cloth  spread  over  the  jar;  strain  off  the  juice,  heat  it,  and 
pour  on  again;  then  strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1  pint  sugar;  boil,  skim 
and  bottle. 

Grape  Juice  and  Almonds. — Take  6  oz.  sweet  almonds;  blanch  and  pound  in  a 
mortar,  working  in  2  cups  grape  juice  and  1%  cups  white  sugar;  then  add  1% 
quarts  water,  and  when  all  are  dissolved,  filter  it.     Ice  when  used. 

Grape  Water. — Squeeze  4  lbs.  grapes  through  a  coarse  cloth,  and  add  34  CUP 
of  white  sugar  and  1  pint  water  to  the  juice.  Serve  with  crushed  ice  in  the 
glass. 

Jelly  Beverages. — Almost  any  jelly  dissolved  in  ice  water  and  sweetened  to 
taste  makes  a  pleasant  drink.  Most  summer  drinks  are  improved  by  adding  a 
little  orange  juice. 

Koumiss. — Take  6  cups  sweet  milk  and  3  tablespoons  of  sugar;  add  2  table- 
spoons of  yeast  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  a  few  hours  until  it  ferments  and  the 
bubbles  rise  all  over  the  top;  then  stir  well  for  3  minutes,  bottle  and  fasten  the 
corks.  Keep  cold  (on  ice  is  best)  and  use  at  once  on  being  opened,  as  it  soon 
spoils  on  exposure  to  the  air.  It  can  be  used  in  2  days,  but  it  is  better  after  1 
week.    It  will  keep  for  months  if  kept  cold. 

Lemonade. — Into  2  cups  boiling  water  put  the  thin  yellow  rinds  of  6  lemons, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  infuse;  take  the  juice  of  12  lemons,  add  the  infusion 
of  the  lemon  peels,  1%  quarts  of  water,  and  1  lb.  sugar,  more  or  less,  to  sweeten  to 
taste. 

No.  2. — Squeeze  the  juice  from  %  doz.  lemons,  add  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  2 
lemons,  1  quart  of  water  and  %  lb.  °f  sugar,  more  or  less,  to  sweeten  to  taste.  It 
is  a  great  improvement  to  lemonade  to  add  grated  pineapple  or  ripe  straw- 
berries mashed.  Remember  in  using  either  lemon  or  orange  peel  that  the  thin 
yellow  rind,  or  zest,  is  all  that  should  be  used;  the  white  part  of  the  rind  is  bitter 
and  injurious.    (See  what  we  say  elsewhere  about  grating  them.) 

Coffee  Lemonade. — Make  coffee  as  for  breakfast;  when  cold,  strain  and  use  it 
instead  of  water  in  making  lemonade.  It  is  healthful  and  refreshing  in  hot 
weather. 

Effervescing  Lemonade. — Into  2  cups  granulated  sugar  work  30  drops  of  oil 
of  lemon  and  sift;  then  sift  in  2%  oz.  tartaric  acid,  and  2%  oz.  carbonate  of  soda; 
keep  dry,  in  air-tight  bottles.    To  use,  stir  2  tablespoons  into  a  glass  of  ice  water. 

Invalid's  Lemonade. — Into  a  glass  or  water  put  a  few  drops  lemon  extract, 
and  2  tablespoons  of  lemon  sugar.    Can  be  made  when  lemons  are  not  attainable. 

Milk  Lemonade. — In  4  cups  boiling  water  dissolve  3  cups  white  sugar;  add  3 
cups  milk  and  1  cup  lemon  juice. 

Portable  Lemonade. — Mix  thoroughly  6  oz.  powdered  sugar,  1  oz.  powdered 
tartaric  acid,  and  1  drachm  essence  of  lemon;  dry  thoroughly,  divide  into  24  parts 


BEVERAGES.  355 

and  wrap  each  one  in  paper;  each  powder  will  make  a  nice  glass  of  lemonade,  and 
can  be  used  at  any  time. 

Vinegar  Water. — A  little  vinegar  put  into  cold  water,  and  then  sweetened  to 
taste,  makes  a  pleasant  beverage  in  hot  weather.  It  is  more  refreshing  and 
healthier  than  to  drink  large  quantities  of  clear  water.  (It  is  the  presence  of  the 
citric  acid  in  lemons  which  makes  lemonade  so  refreshing  and  healthful,  and  the 
acetic  acid  in  vinegar  serves  much  the  same  purpose.) 

Mead.— Take  6  cups  sugar,  2  cups  molasses,  3€  lb.  tartaric  acid;  pour  on  3 
pints  boiling  water,  stir  till  dissolved,  let  cool,  and  add  1  spoonful  essence  of  sas- 
safras, or  flavor  with  fruit  juices;  then  bottle  for  use.  To  serve,  put  2  tablespoons 
into  a  tumbler  %  full  of  ice  water,  add  %  teaspoon  of  soda,  stir  it,  and  drink  while 
foaming. 

Oatmeal  Drink. — (1)  Dissolve  %  cup  of  oatmeal  in  a  jug  of  water;  let  settle, 
and  drink  cold.  (2)  Take  %  lb.  sugar,  %  a  lemon,  sliced  small,  and  %  lb.  fine 
oatmeal;  mix  them  with  a  little  warm  water  first,  and  then  pour  on  4  quarts  boil- 
ing water;  stir  well  together,  let  settle,  and  use  cold.  Any  other  flavoring  can  be 
used  instead  of  the  lemon  if  desired.  (3)  Mix  together  gradually  in  4  quarts  of 
boiling  water  %  lb-  sugar,  %  lb.  fine  oatmeal,  and  4  oz.  cocoa.    Use  when  cold. 

About  Summer  Drinks.— In  hot  weather  there  is  nothing  which  quenches  the  thirst 
better,  or  which  is  more  healthful  and  refreshing  than  oatmeal  drinks.  If  laboring  men, 
harvest  hands,  etc.,  would  use  them  more  it  would  be  a  great  advantage  to  them.  For 
heavy  work  they  are  far  better  than  either  beer,  cider  or  spirits.  Boil  the  oatmeal  if 
possible;  if  not  mix  it  with  cold  water.  When  heavy  work  is  to  be  done  without  time  to 
stop  and  eat,  make  it  stronger.  It  can  be  used  cold  in  summer  and  hot  in  winter.  Cold 
coffee  is  thirst-quenching;  so  is  cold  tea,  but  neither  equals  oatmeal.  Cocoa  is  refreshing 
and  nourishing. 

Orangeade. —(1)  In  1  cup  boiling  water  infuse  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  2  oranges; 

then  add  %  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  6  oranges;  ice  before  serving.     (2)  Take 

1  lemon  and  4  oranges,  slice  crossways,  put  into  an  earthen  jug,  add  4  cups  boil- 
ing water,  and  let  stand  1  hour,  covered;  then  pour  off,  and  ice  before  serving. 

Orgeate. — Blanch  and  pound  in  a  mortar  %  lb.  sweet  and  %  oz.  bitter  almonds, 
working  in  gradually  2  tablespoons  of  orange  flower  water;  then  work  in  %  pint' 
rose  water  and  1%  cups  pure  water;  strain,  and  add  3  cups  simple  syrup.  Put  it 
in  a  sauce-pan,  boil  up  1  minute,  remove  at  once,  and  bottle.  To  use,  add  1 
tablespoon  to  a  tumbler  of  ice  water,  soda,  or  seltzer  water. 

Pineapple  Beverage. — Take  1  pineapple,  peel,  slice,  and  pound  to  a  pulp.  Take 

2  cups  water,  add  %  lb.  sugar,  boil,  skim,  and  pour  it  hot  on  the  pineapple  pulp; 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  let  stand  2  hours  covered;  then  filter  through  cloth, 
and  add  2  pints  cold  water.    Ice  when  served. 

Persian  Beverage. — Take  1  cup  rose-water,  4  tablespoons  of  orange  flower 
water,  2  cups  strawberry  juice,  and  2  cups  simple  syrup;  mix  well  together.  Ice 
it  when  served. 

Raspberry  Acid. — In  4  pints  water  dissolve  3  oz.  tartaric  acid;  pour  it  over  4 
quarts  raspberries  and  let  stand  24  hours;  strain  without  pressing,  and  to  each 
pint  of  juice  add  1%  lbs.  of  sugar;  stir  till  it  dissolves,  let  stand  48  hours;  bottle 
and  seal. 

Raspberry  Water. — Take  2  cups  raspberry  juice,  1  cup  red  currant  juice,  2 
cups  sugar,  2  pints  water;  mix  well. 

Red  Raspberry  Shrub. — Pickle  the  raspberries  in  white  wine  vinegar  for  1 
week;  strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  allow  1  pint  sugar; 
boil  gently  %  hour,  and  bottle.  Use  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  the  shrub  to  a  glass  of 
water. 

Raspberry  Shrub  No.  2. — On  3  quarts  fresh  berries  pour  4  cups  cider  vinegar; 


356  BEVERAGES. 

let  stand  1  day,  strain,  and  pour  the  juice  on  3  quarts  fresh  berries;  let  stand  24 
hours,  strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  1  pint  sugar;  boil  gently  10  minutes, 
skim,  and  bottle  when  cold.    Use  2  or  3  tablespoons  to  a  glass  of  water. 

Strawberry  Shrub  is  made  the  same  way. 

Strawberry  Acid. — In  2  pints  water  dissolve  2  oz.  citric  acid;  pour  it  on  4 
quarts  ripe  strawberries,  let  stand  24  hours;  strain  without  pressing,  and  to  each 
pint  of  juice  add  V%  lbs.  sugar;  boil  10  minutes,  let  stand  3  days,  and  bottle. 

Strawberry  Water. — Take  1  lb.  ripe  strawberries  and  1  cup  sugar;  mash  them 
together  and  add  1  cup  cold  water.    Strain,  and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 

Tisane. — Take  2  oz.  dates,  figs  or  prunes,  cut  them  up,  add  5  cups  water  and 
boil  1  hour;  strain  through  cloth  and  serve  ice  cold.  Dilute  with  cold  water  if 
desired. 

Tomato  Beverage. — Steam  the  tomatoes,  mash  them,  and  strain  through 
cheese  cloth;  add  %  lb.  sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice  and  let  stand  8  or  10  days; 
then  drain  the  liquor  from  the  settlings,  bottle,  and  cork  tight.  It  improves  with 
age.  To  use,  add  1  or  2  tablespoons  to  the  pint  of  water,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
A  little  lemon  juice  will  improve  it. 

Tutti  Frutti. — Take  1  tablespoon  mashed  strawberries;  1  peach,  cut  fine;  1 
tablespoon  pineapple,  cut  fine;  the  juice  of  %,  a  lemon;  1  tablespoon  of  sugar; 
mix  well,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  mix  with  pounded  ice. 

Cider. — To  improve  cider,  strain  it  through  flannel  while  new  and  sweet,  and 
put  into  each  barrel  34  lb.  white  sugar,  and  suspend  a  bag  of  raisins  in  it.  If 
acidity  appears  in  cider,  add  a  little  baking  soda  which  neutralizes  the  acid,  but 
add  it  on  the  first  appearance  of  the  acidity.  If  cider  turns  black  it  is  caused  by 
the  presence  of  oxide  of  iron  which  turns  dark  on  exposure  to  the  air;  adding  a 
little  tartaric  acid  will  usually  correct  it. 

Ginger  Pop. — Infuse  8  oz.  bruised  root  ginger  in  5  gallons  boiling  water;  add 
4  lbs.  sugar,  and  2  oz.  cream  of  tartar,  and  1  oz.  tartaric  acid;  when  lukewarm, 
strain,  add  1  quart  yeast,  and  1  bottle  lemon  essence  to  flavor;  let  stand  over 
night  and  bottle. 

Lemon  Beer. — Into  2  gallons  of  boiling  water  put  2  lbs.  sugar,  the  thin  yellow 
peel  of  2  lemons,  and  1  oz.  bruised  ginger;  when  lukewarm  add  %  pint  yeast;  let 
stand  over  night,  or  a  little  longer,  to  ferment,  and  bottle. 

Spruce  Beer.— Into  4  gallons  of  water  put  3  lbs.  sugar,  %  oz.  essence  of  spruce, 
a  little  zest  of  lemon,  1  oz.  ginger,  and  3^  pint  of  yeast;  let  stand  24  hours,  and 
bottle.  * 

SYRUPS. 

Fruit  syrups  are  made  by  adding  enough  sugar  to  fruit  juices  to  preserve 
them.  Fine  flavored  fruit  should  be  used,  because  syrup  of  fine  flavor  cannot  be 
made  from  fruit  lacking  flavor.  Decayed  fruit  also  will  affect  the  flavor  of  the 
syrup,  and  should  not  be  used.  If  fruit  juice  is  allowed  to  stand  2  or  3  days  until 
fermentation  begins,  it  will  change  the  pectose  it  contains  so  that  it  will  not 
jelly,  and  jellying  is  not  desired  with  fruit  syrups.  They  should  be  made  in 
granite,  porcelain  or  aluminum  kettles,  as  the  acids  the  fruit  juices  contain  will 
act  on  other  metals,  and  change  and  injure  the  color  of  the  syrups,  while  in 
metals  like  brass,  tin,  and  copper  they  will  also  develop  poisonous  compounds. 
If  boiled  hard,  or  heated  too  hot,  it  will  injure  the  flavor  and  color  of  the  syrups. 
A  double  boiler  is  the  best  to  use  to  prevent  this.  Stir  syrups  with  a  wooden 
spoon. 

Fruit  syrups  can  be  used  when  fruits  are  out  of  season,  and  they  not  only 
make  delicious  drinks,  but  they  can  also  be  used  for  puddings,  water  ices  and 
ice  creams.    They  are  best  kept  in  a  dark,  dry,  and  cool  place. 


BEVERAGES.  357 

Simple  Syrup.— Take  2  quarts  water  and  7  lbs.  white  sugar;  heat  gently  until 
dissolved,  and  strain. 

Barberry  Syrup. — Take  good  ripe  barberries,  strip  them,  and  put  them  in  a 
porcelain  kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover  them;  let  them  simmer  gently,  but 
do  not  boil  or  burn  them,  and  when  done  squeeze  out  and  strain  the  juice;  allow 
1  quart  sugar  to  1  pint  of  juice  and  set  the  pitcher  holding  them  into  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  then  bottle  it. 

Blackberry  Syrup. — Take  Yz  gallon  blackberry  juice,  add  4  cups  white  sugar 
(heaping),  ^£  oz.  each  of  allspice,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and  ^  oz.  cloves, 
pulverize  the  spice,  boil  all  for  %  hour,  strain,  and  when  cold,  bottle  and  cork 
closely. 

Cherry  Syrup.— Bruise  6  lbs.  cherries  with  the  stones  in  (breaking  them);  add 

3  cups  hot  water  and  boil  %  hour,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  add  3  lbs.  sugar, 
and  boil  until  it  will  sink  to  the  bottom  of  a  cup  of  water  when  dropped  from  a 
spoon;  then  turn  into  jelly  cups  and  cover  with  paper  dipped  in  the  white  of  egg. 
To  use  for  a  drink,  put  a  spoonful  in  a  glass  of  water,  let  stand  10  minutes,  stir 
it,  and  fill  with  pounded  ice  if  you  have  it. 

Currant  Syrup. — Mash  the  currants,  cover  them  over,  and  let  them  stand  3  or 

4  days  to  ferment;  then  strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  allow  2  lbs.  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice;  dissolve  the  sugar  slowly  (in  a  farina  boiler  is  best,  as  there  is  no 
danger  of  its  burning),  and  then  let  it  become  cold;  put  it  in  small  bottles, 
filling  them  full;  seal  tightly  and  put  away. 

Raspberry  Syrup  can  be  made  the  same  way. 

Lemon  Syrup. — In  a  porcelain  pan  dissolve  2  lbs.  white  sugar  and  2  cups  cold 
water,  and  let  it  boil  2  minutes;  then  add  the  juice  of  4  lemons,  and  %  oz.  tartaric 
acid;  after  it  has  cooled  a  little  add  %  teaspoon  lemon  essence.  When  quite  cold, 
bottle  it. 

Lemon  Syrup  No.  2. — Rub  the  yellow  rind  of  6  lemons  with  1  lb. lump  sugar; 
moisten  the  sugar  with  as  much  water  as  it  will  absorb,  and  boil  it  to  a  clear 
syrup;  to  this  (without  letting  it  boil  any  more)  add  the  juice  of  1  doz.  lemons, 
stirring  it  beside  the  fire;  bottle  it  at  once,  and  cork  when  cold. 

Lemon  Syrup  No.  3. — Mix  4  cups  water  and  2  lbs.  sugar,  and  boil  till  clear; 
when  cool,  add  1  teaspoon  essence  of  lemon  and  1  oz.  citric  acid,  and  bottle 
when  cold. 

Orange  Syrup. — Select  fine,  ripe  oranges,  extract  the  juice,  and  to  each  pint 
add  1  pint  sugar;  boil  gently  10  minutes,  skim  and  bottle  when  cold.  An  excel- 
lent flavor  for  sauces,  as  well  as  a  delightful  drink. 

Rose  Syrup.— Take  %  lb.  rose  leaves,  pour  on  1  pint  of  boiling  water  and  let 
stand  till  next  day;  strain  through  muslin,  add  2  lbs.  sugar,  and  heat  in  a  double 
boiler  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  let  it  cool,  and  bottle  when  cold. 

For  Violet  Syrup  use  violets  in  like  manner, but  do  not  allow  the  calyx  or  stalks 
to  be  mixed  with  the  leaves. 

Sarsaparilla  Syrup. — Into  5  quarts  of  water  put  %  lb.  Spanish  sarsaparilla,  and 
boil  until  it  is  reduced  to  2  quarts;  add  2%  oz.  tartaric  acid  and  4  lbs.  sugar;  mix, 
boil  3  minutes  and  bottle.  To  use,  put  2  tablespoons  in  a  glass  of  water,  add  a 
little  soda,  and  drink  when  it  effervesces. 

Strawberry  Syrup. — Wash  the  strawberries,  and  strain  through  a  jelly-bag; 
prepare  a  syrup  and  bring  it  to  the  "soft  ball  degree''  as  directed  in  "Candy 
making,"  and  to  each  pint  of  the  syrup  add  1  pint  of  the  strawberry  juice;  bring 
it  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  remove  from  the  fire.    Bottle  and  seal  when  cold. 


358  BEVERAGES. 

Pineapple  Syrup  can  be  prepared  by  gradually  adding  strained  pineapple 
juice  to  the  syrup,  instead  of  the   strawberry  juice,  and  finishing  the  same  way. 

Tomato  Syrup. — Take  good  ripe  tomatoes,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  and  to  each 
pint  of  juice  add  %  lb.  sugar;  bottle  and  set  away.  No  alcohol  is  needed  to  pre- 
serve it.  It  will  keep  for  years,  makes  a  delightful  beverage  for  the  sick,  and 
will  resemble  pure  wine  in  flavor. 

Vanilla  Syrup. — Take  2  quarts  of  simple  syrup,  into  some  of  it  rub  %  oz.  citric 
acid;  add  %  oz-  fluid  extract  of  vanilla,  and  mix  all;  then  bottle. 

Wintergreen  Syrup. — To  2J^  quarts  of  simple  syrup  add  25  drops  oil  of  win- 
tergreen,  and  burnt  sugar  enough  to  color  it. 

Artificial  Honey. — (1)  Take  10  lbs.  good  brown  sugar,  add  4  lbs.  water  and 
gradually  bring  it  to  a  boil,  skimming  it  well.  When  it  has  become  cooled, 
add  2  lbs.  bee's  honey  and  8  drops  of  peppermint.  A  better  article  can  be  made 
with  white  sugar  instead  of  brown,  with  1  lb.  less  of  water  and  1  lb.  more  of  sugar. 
(2)  Another  recipe  is:  Take  20  lbs.  coffee  sugar,  6  lbs.  water,  4  oz.  cream  tartar, 
4  tablespoons  vinegar  (strong),  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  lb.  bee's  honey, 
20  drops  Lubin's  extract  of  honeysuckle.  Place  the  water  and  sugar  in  a  kettle 
and  place  over  a  fire;  when  lukewarm  add  the  cream  of  tartar,  stirring  at  the 
time;  then  add  the  egg,  and  when  the  sugar  is  melted  put  in  the  honey  and  stir 
it  well  until  it  comes  to  a  boil;  then  take  off,  let  stand  5  minutes,  strain,  and  add 
the  extract  last.    Let  it  stand  over  night  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 


INVALID  COOKERY. 

While  in  robust  health  the  appetite  is  undoubtedly  an  admirable  guide  in  the 
choice  of  foods,  but  when  debility  and  disease  are  present  intelligent  knowledge 
of  the  properties  of  different  foods  is  necessary,  and  experience  should  guide  in 
administering  them.  Ignorance  in  a  sickroom  is  most  deplorable,  even  when 
accompanied  by  the  utmost  family  affection.  In  many  disorders  a  knowledge  of 
dietetics  is  as  important  as  a  knowledge  of  materia  medica,  for  the  action  of  a 
medicine  may  be  counteracted  by  unsuitable  diet.  When  a  patient  is  very  sick 
the  diet  is  prescribed  by  the  doctor,  and  his  directions  in  regard  to  the  foods  to 
be  given  should  be  carried  out  quite  as  implicitly  as  they  are  in  giving  the 
medicine,  for  they  are  usually  quite  as  important.  Many  persons  have  a  super- 
stitious faith  in  the  cravings  of  the  sick  and  will  disobey  the  doctor  to  gratify  the 
patient,  but  this  is  very  unwise,  as  in  disease  the  appetite  is  not  a  safe  guide,  and 
many  a  patient  has  been  seriously  injured  or  even  killed  by  such  folly.  In  some 
cases,  (notably  after  fever)  the  patient  developes  a  surprising'  appetite  which,  in 
the  state  of  his  digestive  organs,  it  would  be  dangerous  to  gratify.  Other  patients 
will  actually  sink  from  exhaustion  while  refusing  all  food.  Still,  if  a  desire  for 
any  particular  article  is  expressed  it  would  be  well  to  call  the  doctor's  attention 
to  it,  as  it  may  be  a  valuable  indication  of  the  needs  of  the  system. 

In  general  it  may  be  said  that  in  feeding  the  sick  2  objects  are  kept  in  view:  (1) 
to  choose  the  food  which  will  give  least  work  to  the  part  of  the  digestive  canal 
which  is  most  deranged;  (2)  to  compensate  for  the  waste  or  drain  upon  the  system. 
The  doctor  should  thoroughly  understand  the  process  of  digestion,  the  needs  of 
the  system  and  the  composition  of  foods,  and  be  able  to  make  the  selection  of 
foods  more  skilfully  than  an  untrained  person.  It  is  sometimes  thought  that 
when  a  person  is  ill  he  should  be  coaxed  or  coerced  into  taking  as  much  food  as 
possible,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  it  is  only  the  food  which  is  assimilated 
by  the  system  which  is  of  any  real  benefit  to  the  patient,  and  to  overload  the 
feeble  digestive  organs,  will  impose  a  burden  that  will  be  a  positive  detriment; 
therefore,  in  case  of  serious  illness,  get  directions  from  the  doctor  regarding  the 
quantity  as  well  as  kind  of  food  to  be  given.  The  preparation  and  cooking  of 
food  should  be  thoroughly  understood  by  a  good  nurse,  so  that  should  any  dish 
be  sent  from  the  kitchen  imperfectly  prepared,  directions  can  be  given  how  this 
can  be  remedied. 

The  conditions  of  different  patients  vary  so  greatly  (one  may  be  suffering  from 
an  acute  disease  like  a  fever,  while  another  has  some  lingering  chronic  disease; 
one  may  be  suffering  from  over-work  and  nervous  prostration,  while  another 
suffers  from  a  lack  of  exercise,  and  so  on)  that  it  is  evident  that  no  exact  rules 
can  be  given  which  will  apply  to  all  cases,  but  the  following  hints  in  regard  to 
sickroom  feeding  may  be  suggestive  to  our  readers. 

(1)  Give  little  food  and  often.  What  is  eaten  with  a  relish  does  more  good 
than  twice  as  much  swallowed  with  disgust,  so  do  not  urge  a  patient  to  swallow 
large  quantities  at  once;  but  remember  also  that  very  sick  people  often  refuse  to 
swallow  anything,  though  they  may  be  actually  sinking  for  want  of  food. 

(2)  Let  the  food  come  at  stated  times  and  punctually.  A  convalescent  looks 
forward  to  meals  a£  the  great  events  of  the  day,  and  frets  and  worries  if  they  do 
not  come  on  time,  and  a  very  weak  patient  may  faint  and  flag  if  instead  of  an 
hour  it  is  20  or  30  minutes  longer  than  that  between  the  times  of  feeding.  If 
obliged  to  wait  long,  a  patient  may  lose  the  desire  to  eat,  and  turn  against  the 
food  when  brought. 

(3)  As  a  rule,  patients  should  not  be  awakened  to  be  fed,  though  it  may  some- 
times be  necessary  to  do  so.  Amateur  nurses  often  forget  to  feed  patients  in  the 
small  hours  of  the  morning,  although  at  that  time  the  patient's  strength  is  at  the 
lowest  ebb. 

(4)  When  there  is  no  appetite,  give  such  food  as  affords  the  most  nourishment 
for  the  least  work  to  the  system.  When  very  weak,  the  exertion  of  eating  is  quite 
a  tax,  so  put  the  greatest  amount  of  nourishment  in  the  least  space. 

(359) 


360  INVALID    COOKERY. 

(5)  Endeavor  to  give  the  food  most  appreciated  by  the  patient,  provided  it  is 
not  injurious.  Do  not  let  a  convalescent  know  before  hand  what  the  bill  of  fare 
will  be,  as  surprises  are  often  very  pleasing  to  hirn. 

(6)  For  a  convalescent  the  food  should  be  as  varied  as  possible,  for  invalids 
easily  tire  of  the  same  thing.  If  the  food  may  not  be  varied  the  mode  of  serving 
it  may,  and  a  stray  flower  or  a  new  plate  is  better  than  no  variety  at  all. 

(7)  For  invalids  never  make  a  large  quantity  of  one  thing,  as  they  seldom 
require  much  at  a  time.  Only  as  much  as  the  patient  is  likely  to  eat  should  be 
taken  into  the  sickroom,  and  at  once  remove  what  remains.  Never  leave  food  at 
the  bed-side  or  about  a  sickroom;  if  the  patient  cannot  eat  it,  take  it  away  and 
bring  it  again  in  1  or  2  hours.  As  a  rule  nothing  made  for  an  invalid  is  fit  to  be  used 
a  day  after  it  has  been  prepared,  and  neither  food  nor  drink,  except  in  cases  of 
absolute  necessity,  should  be  kept  in  the  invalid's  room,  as  the  air  and  temperature 
are  apt  to  hasten  decomposition . 

(8)  In  case  of  infectious  fevers  all  remains  of  food  should  at  once  be  burned, 
and  on  no  account  be  eated  by  another  person.  The  nurse  should  not  eat  in  the 
sickroom. 

(9)  Have  every  thing  tempting  in  appearance  and  daintily  served.  See  that 
the  linen  is  spotless,  and  the  prettiest  china  used  to  hold  the  sick  one's  food. 
Never  give  an  invalid  soiled  or  crumpled  napkins.  See  what  we  say  about  crumbs 
in  our  article  on  the  "Sickroom." 

(10)  Do  not  put  a  very  little  broth  in  a  very  large  basin.  If  a  limited  amount 
of  drink  is  to  be  given  it  is  better  to  put  the  right  amount  in  a  small  glass  than 
to  hand  a  large  -glass  full,  and  tell  him  how  many  swallows  to  take.  Gruel  served 
in  a  tumbler  is  more  appetizing  than  when  served  in  a  basin  or  cup  and  saucer. 
It  is  better  not  to  have  a  cup  more  than  %  full,  and  then  it  will  be  less  likely  to 
spill  over.  Never  have  anything  spilled  into  the  saucer  on  handing  an  invalid  a 
cup  and  saucer.  Little  things  like  these  tell  on  the  sensitive  nerves  of  an  invalid 
more  than  many  people  think. 

(11)  Sponge  the  hands  and  face  of  an  invalid  carefully  before  serving  any 
meal. 

(12)  If  a  feeding  cup  is  used,  scald  it  carefully  and  keep  it  quite  clean;  warm 
it  before  using  it  for  hot  food.  Keep  one  for  milk,  and  lay  that  in  water;  have  a 
separate  cup  for  beef  tea  and  broth. 

When  much  fever  is  present  very  little  gastric  juice  is  secreted,  and  therefore 
at  the  commencement  of  a  fever  there  is  little  craving  for  anything  but  cold  water. 
All  nourishment  given  in  high  fever  should  be  in  fluid  form,  and  it  is  very  doubt- 
ful if  starch  can  then  be  converted  into  sugar.  All  this  will  be  plain  by  referring 
to  our  article  elsewhere  on  the  "Processes  of  Digestion."  Lemonade  is  agreeable 
as  the  acid  taste  pleases  the  patient's  palate,  and  the  sugar  passes  into  the  system 
without  digestion  or  making  any  demands  on  the  powers  of  the  stomach,  and 
various  other  drinks  can  be  given.  As  the  fever  subsides  the  gastric  and  intes- 
tinal juices  are  sufficiently  secreted  to  digest  farinaceous  foods,  and  the  medical 
man  can  decide  in  each  case  what  articles  are  most  suitable.  By  degrees  the 
patient  is  able  to  satisfy  his  natural  appetite,  convalescence  becomes  more  rapid, 
and  by-and-by  steaks  and  other  food  can  be  eaten  again.  This  would  be  dietetic 
regimen. 

The  following  quotation  from  Dr.  Pavy's  "Treatise  on  Food  and  Dietetics," 
will  be  of  interest  and  value.  Regarding  the  foods  which  may  be  given  patients 
as  convalescence  advances,  he  says:     "In  febrile,  acute,  inflammatory,  and  other 

conditions  where  an  absence  of  digestive  power  prevails the  food  should 

be  confined  to  such  articles  as  beef  tea,  mutton,  veal,  or  chicken  broth,  whey, 
calf's  foot,  and  other  kinds  of  jelly,  arrowroot,  and  such  like  farinaceous  articles, 
barley  water,  rice,  mucilage,  gum-water,  fruit  jelly,  and  the  juice  of  fruits,  as 
lemons,  oranges,  etc.,  made  into  drinks  ....  Where  a  little  latitude  is  allowable, 
the  employment  of  milk  and  eggs  in  a  fluid  form  may  be  sanctioned.  Bread  jelly, 
which  is  made  by  steeping  bread  in  boiling  water  and  passing  it  through  a  sieve 
while  still  hot,  is  also  an  article  that  may  be  used  either  alone  or  boiled  with 
milk.  From  this,  as  circumstances  permit,  an  advance  may. be  made  to  sub- 
stances which  do  not  throw  much  work  on  the  stomach,  such  as  rice,  sago,  tap- 
ioca, bread  and  custard  puddings,  and  stale  bread  and  toast  sopped.    Next  may 

be  allowed  fish which  should  be  boiled  or  broiled,  and  not  fried.    As  power 

becomes  restored,  calves'  feet,  chicken,  game  and  butcher's  meat — mutton  to 


INVALID   COOKERY.  361 

begin  with — may  be  permitted  to  follow,"  and  so  on  till  ordinary  diet  is  reached. 
The  object  is  to  convey  fuel-foods  (carbohydrates)  to  the  system,  and  only  enough 
albumenoids  (flesh  formers)  for  repairing  the  tissues.  Later,  an  abundance  of 
albumenoids  will  be  needed  to  rebuild  the  wasted  tissues. 

In  cases  of  fever,  pure  milk  as  the  main  article  of  diet  is  superior  to  anything 
else,  especially  in  fevers  which  cause  disturbance  of  the  stomach  and  bowels. 
Beef  tea,  which  is  commonly  used,  is  often  irritating;  but  milk  is  soothing,  cool- 
ing, and  at  the  same  time  nourishing.  A  patient  who  can  take  milk  has  a  greater 
chance  of  recovery.  With  some  persons  it  does  not  agree,  either  in  sickness  or 
health.  Mixing  %  to  %  its  quantity  of  lime  water  with  it  will  help  it  with  some. 
Soda  water  and  milk,  or  seltzer  water  and  milk,  agree  with  some.  Boiled  milk  is 
more  digestible  with  some,  especially  hot  boiled  milk.  Only  in  rare  cases  should 
the  cream  be  removed.  The  slightest  souring  is  sufficient  to  make  milk  disagree 
with  a  patient.  In  the  early  stages  of  convalescence,  hot  milk,  given  often  in 
small  quantities,with  a  little  toasted  bread,  or  thin  gruel  added,  is  often  excellent. 
In  chronic  disorders  of  the  stomach  and  boivels  a  milk  diet  is  most  valuable.  It 
allows  the  stomach  to  have  almost  absolute  rest,  which  is  often  all  that  is 
required.  As  it  is  already  prepared  for  absorption  into  the  system  it,  in  fact, 
requires  no  digestion.  When  milk  is  constipating,  a  little  salt  sprinkled  in  each 
glassful  will  obviate  the  difficulty.  When  it  has  an  opposite  effect,  a  few  drops 
of  brandy  in  each  tumbler  of  milk  will  prevent  purgation.  If  diluted  with  % 
lime  water  it  will  rarely  cause  biliousness  or  indigestion.  The  idea  that  milk 
should  not  be  eaten  wi'th  pickles  is  a  mistake,  as  it  is  curdled  by  the  gastric  juice 
as  soon  as  swallowed,  but  it  is  better  to  be  sipped  in  small  quantities  than  taken 
in  large  amounts  at  one  time  if  acids  accompany  it. 

Cream  can  often  be  taken  freely  when  nothing  else  will  remain  on  the  stom- 
ach. It  should  always  be  fresh,  and  may  be  diluted  with  water  or  given  pure.  In 
many  chronic  diseases  it  is  irreplaceable  by  any  other  article  whatever.  With 
many  people  it  is  easier  of  digestion  than  milk,  and  it  seldom  disagrees. 

Buttermilk  is  often  very  useful.  It  is  almost  always  allowable  in  sickness, 
especially  in  fevers  with  gastric  symptoms. 

Whey  is  often  found  useful  when  every  preparation  of  fresh  milk  disagrees. 
It  is  not  very  nourishing,  but  is  digestible,  and  is  a  refreshing  drink  in  inflamma- 
tory disorders.    It  is  rich  in  organic  salts. 

The  fats  for  the  system  are  best  obtained  by  using  cream,  or  butter  which  is 
next  best,  rather  than  fatty  meats.  Do  not  have  the  butter  made  into  a  sauce, 
nor  melted  and  soaked  into  food.  When  exposed  to  heat  (as  for  buttered  toast) 
it  is  very  likely  to  disagree  with  dyspeptics  and  other  invalids.  All  decomposing 
fats,  as  a  rule,  disagree  with  the  stomach.  The  value  of  cod  liver  oil  in  many 
diseases  consists  in  the  fact  that  it  is  the  most  easily  digested  of  fats,  not  even 
excepting  cream. 

Eggs  are  nutritious  and  easily  digested  when  raw  or  lightly  cooked;  they  are 
more  digestible  if  beaten  to  a  froth.  Do  not  submit  them  to  a  high  temperature 
in  cooking,  for,  as  we  explain  elsewhere,  that  will  make  them  tough  and  indiges- 
tible. The  white  is  least  likely  to  disagree  with  a  bilious  patient.  Use  only  fresh 
eggs  for  invalids.  Eggs  boiled  20  minutes  are  more  digestible  than  when  boiled 
10;  boiled  10  minutes,  they  become  tough  and  horny,  but  become  mealy  and  dry 
when  cooked  20  minutes  and  crumble  up  readily  so  that  they  are  easily  acted  on 
by  the  gastric  juices.  Eggs  in  the  tough  and  horny  state  are  insoluble,  and 
pieces  often  stay  in  the  digestive  tract  till  they  decompose,  when  they  emit  ammo- 
nia and  sulphuretted  hydrogen  which  are  injurious  to  the  system. 

Beef  Tea  is  not  a  nourishing  food,  although  it  used  to  be  so  considered,  and  it 
is  now  known  to  have  more  value  as  a  stimulant  than  as  food,  properly  speaking, 
and  yet  many  persons  place  their  main  reliance  on  it,  and  think  the  more 
a  patient  swallows  the  sooner  he  will  recover.  It  should  be  combined  with 
other  foods,  or  given  alternately  when  possible,  and  when  containing  farinacious 
foods  it  is  useful.  If  well  made,  it  is  a  pleasant  and  refreshing  beverage.  A 
healthy  man  would  starve  on  beef  tea  alone,  and  so  would  an  invalid. 

Broth  made  from  chicken  is  more  nutritious  than  that  made  from  either 
beef  or  mutton,  and  the  sick  often  find  it  very  useful.  The  meat  extracts  (Liebig's 
and  others)  are  made  by  boiling  lean  meat  in  water,  and  then  taking  out  the  insol- 
uble parts  and  evaporating  it  down.  As  some  of  the  most  nutritious  parts  of  the 
meat  are  insoluble  in  water  the  extracts  contain  comparatively  little  nourish- 


362  INVALID    COOKERY. 

ment.  Their  principal  value  is  as  stimulants,  and  they  often  improve  the  appe- 
tite so  that  more  nutritious  foods  are  craved  and  digested.  Other  food,  there- 
fore, should  be  given  with  them.  A  German  took  2  dogs  and  gave  one  meat 
extract  and  the  other  water,  and  nothing  else.  The  one  given  the  extract  lost 
flesh  faster  and  died  before  the  one  having  only  water. 

Jelly,  Gelatine  and  Isinglass  have  excited  much  discussion.  Alone  they  are 
of  little  value,  and  it  is  a  mistake  to  place  much  reliance  on  them  for  nourish- 
ment. (See  our  remarks  on  this  subject  under  the  head  of  "Gelatine  Prepara- 
tions.") 

Toast  is  valuable  for  invalids  because  by  toasting  part  of  the  starch  is  turned 
into  dextrin,  which  is  easily  digested.  Cut  the  bread  thin,  hold  it  a  little  ways 
from  the  tire  to  dry,  then  hold  it  closer  till  it  browns.  Serve  it  dry,  or  buttered 
lightly,  or  with  hot  water  or  milk  poured  on  it. 

Flour,  Rice,  Barley  and  Oats  are  preferable  to  arrowroot,  sago,  tapioca,  etc.,  for 
nourishment,  if  suitably  prepared.  Browned  flour  we  mention  elsewhere.  Rice 
is  valuable  for  invalids,  as  it  taxes  the  digestive  powers  very  little.  It  can  be 
roasted  like  coffee;  then  cook  it  in  the  usual  way,  and  serve  it  with  cream.  Bar- 
ley for  invalids  should  be  thoroughly  cooked.  Use  oatmeal  cautiously  until  the 
digestive  powers  become  strong.  Cornmeal  because  of  its  fat  is  valuable  for  thin, 
chilly  invalids,  but  cook  it  thoroughly.  Macaroni  is  nutritious  and  easily 
digested. 

Fine  Flour  Bread  is  indigestible  because  it  does  not  readily  separate  into  par- 
ticles in  the  stomach,  so  as  to  be  readily  attacked  by  the  digestive  fluids.  A  little 
fine  Indian  meal  added  to  fine  flour  bread  will  obviate  this  difficulty  and  cause  it 
to  separate  quickly.  Cornmeal  is  also  loosening  in  its  effects  upon  the  digestive 
organs,  therefore  in  a  relaxed  condition  of  the  bowels  cornmeal  should  be  avoided. 
Maltine,  taken  with  fine  flour  bread  or  biscuit,  will  assist  digestion  Thorough 
mastication  must  be  insisted  on,  for  that  is  the  first  process  of  the  thorough 
digestion  of  all  starch  foods  in  which  fine  flour  is  used.  (See  our  article  on  "Pro- 
cesses of  Digestion.") 

Tea,  Coffee  and  Cocoa. — Tea  is  often  misused  for  invalids.  A  little  tea  or 
coffee  restores  them  quite  as  much  as  a  great  deal.  As  a  rule,  do  not  give  either 
after  five  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  Sleeplessness  in  the  early  night  is  generally 
from  excitement,  and  is  increased  by  tea  or  coffee;  in  the  early  morning  it  comes 
from  exhaustion,  and  is  relieved  by  tea.  In  general,  the  dry  and  coated  tongue 
prefers  tea  to  coffee.  Coffee  is  a  better  restorative  than  tea.  Cocoa  is  often  rec- 
ommended instead  of  tea  or  coffee,  but  it  has  a  very  different  effect.  It  is  a  food 
rather  than  a  beverage,  owing  to  its  fatty  character,  and  for  invalids  it  has  no 
restorative  or  stimulating  effect,  and  its  fat  is  often  oppressive  to  a  weak 
stomach. 

Vegetables. — If  an  invalid  is  allowed  to  eat  vegetables,  be  careful  to  choose 
only  such  as  are  young  and  tender,  perfectly  fresh,  and  sufficiently  cooked;  never 
send  them  up  half  done.  The  cabbage  tribe  are  unsuitable,  as  they  are  likely  to 
produce  flatulence,  and  all  the  pulses  are  difficult  of  digestion.  A  mealy  old 
potato  is  more  digestible  than  a  new  one.  The  best  way  to  use  it  is  to  boil,  remove 
the  inside,  mash  thoroughly,  and  use  a  little  salt  and  cream  to  season  it. 

The  Principles  Involved  in  Boiling  Vegetables.— These  are  not  generally  under- 
stood, and  this  may  be  a  good  place  to  explain  them.  Each  minute  granule  of  si  arch,  in 
its  original  state,  is  surrounded  by  a  thin  sheath  of  cellulose,  much  like  the  shell  on  a 
chestnut;  this  cellulose  sheath  is  nearly  insoluble  in  the  digestive  fluids,  so  that  they  can- 
not get  at  the  starch  inside.  In  boiling,  the  starch  swells  and  bursts  this  sheath;  the  starch 
thus  liberated  is  readily  attacked  by  the  digestive  fluids,  which  turn  itinto  sugar,  and  then 
it  is  assimilated  by  the  system.  The  object,  therefore,  in  boiling  any  form  of  starch  is 
merely  to  burst  these  cells,  and  that  is  best  done  by  having  the  water  as  hot  as  possible, 
and  by  keeping  it  boiling  actively  as  long  as  the  article  is  in  it.  As  soon  as  the  starch  cells 
burst,  however,  the  vegetable  should  be  taken  out,  as,  if  it  is  left  in  longer,  the  starch  will 
absorb  water  and  deteriorate.  When  starch  is  improperly  cooked  its  digestion  is  very  diffi- 
cult and  much  waste  is  caused  the  system,  which  is  quite  a  loss  even  to  one  in  good  health; 
but  for  invalids  it  is  particularly  important  that  the  starch  should  be  suitably  cooked  so  as 
to  be  easily  digested.  The  difference  in  the  digestibility  of  different  forms  of  uncooked 
starch  (which  is  alluded  to  on  page  17)  is  caused  by  the  fact  that  the  cellulose  coating  in 
some  forms  of  starch  is  tougher  than  in  others.  When  properly  cooked,  so  that  its  cellulose 
sheath  is  burst  open,  all  forms  of  starch  are  about  equally  digestible. 

In  baking  potatoes  the  heat  of  the  oven  causes  the  starch  granules  to  swell  and  burst 
their  shea  shs,  much  as  a  chestnut  or  a  grain  of  popcorn  bursts  open  when  roasted,  thus  liber- 
ating the  starch. 

The  juice  of  fruits  can  be  used  early  in  convalescence  for  preparing  drinks 


INVALID    COOKERY.  363 

for  an  invalid,  but  do  not  use  the  pulp.    When  fruits  can  be  used  again  a  baked 
apple  can  first  be  safely  eaten. 

The  appetite  may  be  unimpaired  or  even  greatly  increased  in  many  chronic 
diseases,  like  dyspepsia,  etc.,  and  in  these  cases  there  will  be  danger  of  yielding 
to  the  claims  of  appetite  and  overstepping  the  bounds  of  prudence,  so  that  an 
undue  amount  or  an  unsuitable  food  may  be  eaten,  for  which  reason  it  is  of  great 
importance  for  such  persons  to  pay  attention  to  some  suitable  rules  for  the  diet. 

People  who  are  subject  to  gout  and  biliousness  should  remember  that  "bile- 
poison"  and  "gout-poison"  are  of  albumenoid  descent,  and  that  they  follow  a  diet 
too  rich  in  albumenoids  like  the  avenging  fates.  The  system  requires  for  the 
growth  and  repair  of  its  tissues  a  certain  amount  of  albumenoids,  but  when  an 
excess  is  eaten  the  surplus  is  imperfectly  oxydized  and  the  blood  becomes  laden 
with  waste,  and  the  result  is  biliousness  or  gout.  People  with  a  tendency  to 
these  diseases  should  eat  very  sparingly  of  albumenoid  foods .  like  meat,  eggs, 
beans,  cheese,  etc. 

People  with  a  tendency  to  consumption  should  eat  nutritious  and  easily 
digested  foods,  and  plenty  of  fats  in  their  most  easily  digested  form,  such  as  cream, 
good  butter,  oil  and  salads,  oatmeal,  cornmeal,  etc.,  rather  than  in  the  indigestible 
form  they  assume  when  mixed  with  starch. 

Diet. — Every  year  diet  plays  a  larger  part  in  the  skilled  treatment  of  disease; 
it  is  harmless  where  drugs  are  dangerous,  and  it  can  often  cure  where  drugs  are 
useless  or  worse.  There  are  many  diseases  where  the  only  hope  of  cure  or  allevia- 
tion lies  in  rigid  abstinence  from  certain  kinds  of  food,  and  in  many  common 
ailments  some  slight  change  of  diet  is  by  far  the  best  remedy. 

A  deficiency  of  oil  or  fat  in  the  diet  developes  scrofulous  diseases,  and  yet  we 
often  hear,  when  fat  meats,  cream,  butter,  etc.,  are  suggested  for  scrofulous 
children  "0,  that  will  feed  the  disease,"  when  that  is  likely  to  be  the  one  thing 
that  would  most  assist  a  cure.  Fat  is  heat  giving,  and  is  naturally  craved  by 
most  delicate  children.  The  following  is  about  the  proportion  of  fat  in  the 
different  grains:  Rice  1;  Rye  1.75;  Wheat  2.10;  Oats  3.30;  Indian  Corn  5  (the 
amount  of  oil  varies  in  different  varieties  of  corn,  the  northern  yellow  containing 
much  more  than  the  southern  white).  Oatmeal  porridge  and  milk  have,  with 
intelligent  people,  long  been  regarded  as  the  best  food  for  the  nursery.  It  owes 
its  chief  value  for  that  purpose  to  its  large  amount  of  fat,  but  with  many  children 
it  does  not  agree,  and  cornmeal  porridge  possessing  so  much  fat  can  often  be 
used  in  its  place  to  advantage.  Thoroughly  cook  it  always,  as  it  is  only  indigesti- 
ble when  improperly  prepared.  The  dietary  for  children  from  2^  to  7  years  of 
age,  which  has  been  settled  by  long  experiment  in  various  children's  hospitals  is 
as  follows:  At  least  12  ounces  of  bread  daily;  1  oz.  butter;  %  pint  of  milk;  2  oz. 
meat;  6  oz.  vegetables;  6  oz.  gruel  or  porridge.  Rapidly  growing  children  require 
an  abundance  of  meat  (or  albumenoids)  to  build  up  the  rapidly  growing  system. 

Lime. — In  parts  of  the  country  where  lime  does  not  exist  in  the  soil,  so  that 
the  water  is  deficient  in  lime,  use  %  Pmt  °f  lime  water  with  the  mixing  for  bread 
every  time  bread  is  made.  In  this  way  children  will  get  the  lime  which  is  nec- 
essary for  the  proper  solidifying  of  the  bones,  and  the  preservation  of  the  teeth. 
We  explain  elsewhere  how  to  make  lime  water. 

When  a  patient  suffers  from  sickness  and  nausea  every  food  should  be  given 
iced,  or  as  cold  as  possible,  and  in  the  smallest  quantities,  and  it  will  be  a  good 
plan  to  slip  a  little  piece  of  ice  into  the  patient's  mouth  immediately  after  giving 
the  food. 

Ice  for  the  sickroom  can  be  nicely  kept  through  the  night  by  tying  a  piece  of 
strainer  cloth  over  a  large  pitcher,  with  a  piece  of  twine  around  it,  leaving  a  sag 
in  the  center  on  which  may  be  placed  1  or  2  pounds  of  ice — enough  to  serve  the 
invalid  through  the  night.  Fold  up  the  corners  of  the  cloth  over  the  ice,  and 
cover  it  again  with  a  square  of  canton  flannel,  folded  4  double.  When  a  bit  of  ice 
is  needed  have  at  hand  a  large  darning  needle  and  thimble;  press  steadily  on  a 
corner  of  the  ice  with  the  needle,  and  flake  off  pieces  as  needed.  The  water  in 
the  bottom  of  the  pitcher  can  be  poured  through  the  strainer  without  disturbing 
the  ice  which  is  covered  with  the  corners  of  the  strainer. 

Fat  may  be  removed  from  beef  tea  or  broth  by  letting  it  get  cold,  when  it  can 
all  be  taken  off;  or,  if  in  haste,  by  drawing  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  edgeways 
over  the  surface,  and  it  will  take  up  the  fatty  particles.  In  some  cases  a  little  fat 
will  be  beneficial;  in  others  it  is  better  to  remove  it  all. 


364  INVALID    COOKERY. 

Milk  Soup. — Use  1  quart  of  new  milk,  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of 
powdered  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  granulated  sugar;  scald  all  together  for  an 
hour  in  a  pitcher  set  in  a  kettle  of  water;  then  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs.    Good  for  delicate  persons  and  children. 

Mutton  Broth. — Boil  slowly  about  2  lbs.  of  lean  mutton  for  2  hours;  skim  it 
carefully;  do  not  put  in  too  much  salt — more  can  be  added  if  needed;  a  little 
barley  or  rice  may  be  added;  strain,  and  take  off  all  fat  with  blotting  paper  drawn 
across  it. 

Chicken  Broth. — Put  half  a  chicken  into  a  small  stew-pan  with  a  teaspoon  of 
rice,  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  until  the 
meat  falls  from  the  bones;  then  take  out  the  chicken,  leave  the  rice  in,  and  serve. 
Very  nutritious. 

Essence  of  Meat. — Take  1  pound  of  good  lean  beef  (have  it  free  from  fat  and 
skin),  chop  it  into  small  pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  glass  fruit  jar  adding  1  tablespoon 
of  water,  and  screw  on  the  cover;  set  it  in  cold  water,  heat  gradually  to  150°  to 
160°  (don't  let  it  boil),  and  keep  it  there  2  hours;  the  water  in  the  outside  kettle 
must  not  get  into  the  fruit  jar;  remove  all  fat  with  a  piece  of  clean  blotting 
paper,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Chicken  or  any  other  meat  can  be 
treated  the  same  way.  The  pure  essence  of  meat,  thus  extracted,  will  be  received 
by  the  most  delicate  stomach,  and  is  also  valuable  where  considerable  nutriment 
is  required  in  a  concentrated  form.  A  single  tablespoonf ul  can  be  taken  by  an 
invalid,  and  would  afford  as  much  sustenance  as  34  pint  of  broth.  It  becomes  a 
jelly  when  cold,  and  may  in  this  way  be  eaten  with  chicken  or  game. 

Stewed  Beef  Essence. — Cut  J£  lb.  of  beef  into  bits,  salt  it,  and  in  a  few  minutes, 
squeeze  it,  let  it  stand  J^  hour,  heat  hot,  but  do  not  boil  it,  and  serve  at  once. 

Broiled  Beef  Juice. — Broil  %  lb.  of  round  steak  1  or  2  minutes  on  each  side, 
cut  in  bits,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  salt  and  serve. 

Broiled  Steak. — Wipe  the  steak  with  a  clean,  wet  cloth,  take  a  piece  of  the 
fat  to  grease  the  gridiron,  broil  over  a  bright  fire  4  or  5  minutes,  turn  often,  put 
on  a  hot  plate,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter. 

Toasted  Mutton. — Cut  very  thin  slices  from  loin  of  mutton,  with  a  sharp  knife. 
Lay  each  slice  on  a  toasting-fork,  and  toast  over  a  clear  hot  fire.  Sprinkle  with 
a  little  pepper  and  salt.    It  may  be  eaten  with  a  thin  piece  of  toast. 

Meat  Patty. — Scrape  a  piece  of  lean  beef -steak  with  a  very  dull  knife,  holding 
it  with  the  left  hand,  and  scraping  from  you  with  the  right.  This  removes  the 
tender  meat  fiber  and  leaves  the  tough  connective  tissue.  Press  the  former  into 
a  thin  cake  or  patty,  and  broil  on  a  toasting  fork  over  a  very  hot  fire.  When 
done,  season  to  taste.  Eaten  with  toast  or  thin  cut  bread  and  butter  it  makes  a 
very  delicate  dish.  The  cake  or  patty,  prepared  as  above,  may  also  be  fried  in  a 
little  butter,  and  will  be  found  very  nutritious,  and  a  weak  stomach  will  retain  it. 

Kaw  Beef  Sandwiches. — Scrape  fine  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  raw,  juicy,  tender 
beef,  season  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  put 
it  in  a  toaster  and  toast  slightly. 

Cooking  Eggs  for  Invalids. — Put  3  cups  of  boiling  water  into  a  skillet  and  add 
a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  a  little  salt.  Have  it  boiling  hot,  then  break  the  eggs  in, 
and  cover  and  set  back  where  they  will  not  boil.  Let  the  eggs  remain  in  until 
they  cook  white  on  top,  but  not  hard. 

Steamed  Eggs. — Put  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  new  milk  in  plain  patty  tins,  and 
break  fresh  eggs  into  them;  add  a  little  salt  and  put  into  the  steamer  and  steam 
until  white,  over  the  yolks,  but  not  long  enough  to  harden  them.  Both  of  these 
are  very  nice  and  look  very  inviting. 


INVALID    COOKERY.  365 

Beef  Tea.— Mince  a  pound  of  tender  beef,  free  from  fat,  and  put  it  into  a  cov- 
ered crockery  jar;  pour  on  barely  enough  cold  water  to  cover  the  meat,  and  allow 
it  to  soak  2  or  3  hours;  then  place  it  on  the  stove  or  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  let 
it  simmer  (don't  let  it  boil — it  should  not  go  above  160°)  for  2  or  3  hours  longer, 
adding  a  little  water  from  time  to  time  as  it  evaporates;  strain  and  season  to 
taste.  To  make  it  more  nourishing  a  little  arrowroot,  rice  or  barley  may  be 
added. 

Mutton  or  Veal  may  be  treated  the  same  way. 

If  beef  tea  must  be  had  quickly  broil  a  thick  piece  of  steak,  turning  it  often, 
to  keep  in  the  juices,  as  explained  elsewhere  for  broiling;  then  cut  it  into  small 
pieces,  and  press  it  in  a  lemon  squeezer. 

Prof.  Liebig's  Beef  Tea. — A  saltspoon  of  the  extract  (Liebig's)  is  stirred  in  a 
cup  of  boiling  water.  Add  salt  and  pepper  as  desired.  If  too  much  of  the  extract 
is  used,  which  is  a  common  mistake,  the  drink  has  a  bitter  taste.  Dry  toast  eaten 
with  it  makes  a  palatable  dish. 

Broiled  Beef  Tea. — Broil  %  lb.  °i  lean,  juicy  beef  1  minute  on  each  side,  cut 
in  small  pieces,  pour  over  it  ~%  cup  of  boiling  water,  squeeze  it,  salt  the  juice  and 
serve  instantly.    Do  not  heat  it  again. 

Stewed  Beef  Tea. — Use  %  lb.  of  round  steak,  cut  fine,  soak  it  in  1  cup  of  water 
3^  hour,  let  it  heat  (not  boil),  strain,  salt  and  serve.  (In  making  beef  tea  it  is  well 
to  know  that  1  lb.  of  the  round  will  yield  4  oz.  of  beef  extract,  and  contains  more 
nutriment  and  is  much  cheaper  than  that  bought  ready  prepared.) 

Apple  Water.— Cut  3  or  4  apples  in  slices,  pour  boiling  water  over,  allow  to 
stand  2  or  3  hours,  strain,  and  sweeten  slightly.     This  is  a  very  refreshing  drink. 

Barley  Water.— To  1  cup  of  barley  (first  washed)  add  1  quart  of  water.  Allow 
to  simmer  until  %  has  boiled  away.  Strain,  and  to  this  add  a  tablespoon  of 
sugar  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  hot  water.  This  is  an  excellent  drink  in  fibrile  affec- 
tions; also  it  is  very  refreshing  and  somewhat  nourishing.  To  make  a  mild 
laxative  drink  for  children,  add  to  the  barley  8  or  10  figs  cut  in  pieces.  It  is  a 
delightful  drink,  and  quite  laxative. 

Rice  Water. — Wash  2  oz.  of  rice;  boil  1  hour  in  2  quarts  of  water;  strain,  and 
sweeten;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  It  is  a  very  pleasant  drink  and  efficacious  in  the 
bowel  trouble  of  children. 

Toast  Water. — Cut  4  slices  of  bread  thin;  toast  to  near  burning.  Pour  over 
them  1  quart  of  boiling  water  and  allow  to  cool,  and  strain.  It  may  be  flavored 
with  a  little  lemon  juice.     This  is  a  most  wholesome  and  refreshing  drink. 

Hot  Lemonade. — Peel  the  yellow  rind  off  1  lemon,  squeeze,  and  add  a  glass  of 
boiling  water;  sweeten  with  crushed  sugar.  This  is  an  excellent  drink  in  the 
feverish  condition  of  colds.     It  will  quickly  induce  perspiration. 

Egg  and  Lemon  Juice. — Dissolve"  1  oz.  sugar  in  1  pint  of  water,  and  stir  in  the 
juice  of  1  lemon;  add  the  white  of  1  egg  and  froth  up.     Ice  it  if  desired. 

Egg  Drink. — Use  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  teacup  milk.  Beat  the  egg  well 
in  a  cup  with  the  sugar,  put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  and  when  it  boils  pour  it  over 
the  egg,  beating  with  a  fork  all  the  time.     It  is  refreshing  and  invigorating. 

Egg  and  Lime  Water.—  To'a  wine  glass  of  lime  water  add  the  white  of  1  egg 
beaten  so  it  will  not  string.  Give  it  in  small  quantity  and  often.  It  is  excellent 
in  obstinate  vomiting  and  irritation  of  the  stomach. 

Lime  Water. — Put  2  teaspoons  of  lime  water  in^  tumbler  of  milk;  add  a  little 
sugar  to  taste.  This  will  often  be  retained  when  the  stomach  rejects  all  other 
kinds  of  food.  The  same  may  be  said  of  milk  and  soda  water  in  equal  propor- 
tions.   We  explain  elsewhere  how  to  make  lime  water. 


366  INVALID    COOKERY. 

Flaxseed  Tea. — To  1  cup  water  allow  1  tablespoon  flaxseed;  pour  on  the  water 
boiling  hot,  boil  5  minutes  and  strain.  Sweeten  with  sugar,  and  for  flavor  add  a 
little  lemon  or  orange  juice. 

Linseed  Tea. — Boil  2  tablespoons  of  the  unground  linseed  in  3  pints  of  water 
until  reduced  to  a  quart;  strain,  and  add  lemon  juice  to  relieve  the  flat  taste.  A 
very  useful  drink  in  colds  and  coughs.  It  is  also  good  in  affections  of  the  urinary 
organs. 

Licorice  Tea. — Take  2  oz.  each  of  licorice  and  marshmallow  root;  boil  in  3 
pints  of  water  down  to  a  quart.  Allow  it  to  stand  to  settle;  then  strain  through 
muslin.    It  is  a  very  desirable  drink  in  colds,  etc. 

Slippery  Elm  Tea. — Boil  1  oz.  in  a  quart  of  water  until  %  has  boiled  away. 
Pour  off,  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice  if  desired.  Useful  in  same  cases  as  the 
former. 

Rennet  Whey. — Infuse  a  piece  of  the  rennet  in  a  little  boiling  water,  as  for 
making  cheese;  let  it  remain  1  or  2  hours;  put  a  tablespoon  of  this  fluid  into  3 
pints  of  new  milk,  just  warmed  (not  hot).  Cover  it  with  a  cloth  and  let  stand 
still  until  the  curd  is  formed  thick  on  the  top;  press  out,  and  use  the  whey. 

Wine  Whey. — Add  to  a  pint  of  milk,  brought  to  the  boiling  point,  sufficient 
madeira  or  sherry  wine  to  coagulate  it.     Strain,  sweeten  or  flavor  to  the  taste. 

Rice  and  Milk. — Wash  3  tablespoons  of  rice;  put  in  a  sauce-pan  with  a  pint 
of  milk;  allow  to  simmer  until  rice  is  soft,  stirring  from  time  to  time  to  prevent 
burning;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  This  is  a  nice  dish  for  children,  especially 
when  troubled  with  summer  complaint. 

Tapioca,  Macaroni,  Vermicelli,  etc.,  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way.  They 
make  very  palatable  dishes. 

Swiss  Cream. — Boil  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk  with  a  little  cinnamon  or  lemon 
peel;  rub  a  teaspoon  of  flour  in  a  small  quantity  of  milk,  and  add  it  to  the  rest, 
stirring  it  on  the  fire. 

Asses'  Milk. — This  is  much  like  human  milk  in  consistency,  but  contains  a  lit- 
tle less  cream  and  more  soft  caseous  matter.  It  is  often  used  by  persons  afflicted 
by  lung  affections,  and  is  considered  very  strengthening. 

Artificial  asses'  milk  may  be  made  by  dissolving  2  oz.  of  sugar  of  milk  in  1 
pint  of  warm,  skimmed,  cow's  milk.  Another  recipe  for  artificial  asses'  milk  is 
%  oz.  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  hot  barley  water,  then  add  1  oz.  of  refined 
sugar,  and  then  1  pint  of  new  cow's  milk  and  beat  all  together. 

Goat's  Milk. — This  is  considered  very  good  for  invalids  in  some  conditions.  It 
resembles  cow's  milk,  but  the  butter  contained  in  it  is  harder  than  that  of  the 
cow. 

Artificial  goafs  milk  is  made  by  taking  a  piece  of  fresh  calf's  suet  the  size  of 
an  egg,  tying  it  in  a  cloth,  scalding  it  in  a  quart  of  new  milk,  and  adding  a  level 
tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar.  The  suet  must  be  cut  finely,  or  chopped,  and 
tied  loosely  in  a  thin  piece  of  muslin  or  lace.  This  is  excellent  for  scrofulous 
children,  and  any  person  suffering  from  affections  of  the  lungs. 

Frangipane. — This  is  a  preparation  for  invalids  made  by  evaporating  to  a 
thick  consistency  (in  a  double  boiler)  milk  mixed  with  blanched  and  pounded 
sweet  almonds,  and  a  little  sugar. 

Suet  and  Milk. — To  1  pint  of  new  milk  add  1  cup  of  scraped  veal  suet  and  a 
teaspoon  of  sugar.  Scald  together  for  an  hour,  then  strain,  and  add  a  little  flav- 
oring if  liked.    This  is  a  nourishing  drink  for  an  invalid  or  delicate  child. 

Arrowroot. — Mix  2  teaspoons  of  arrowroot  with  1  tablespoon  of  cold  waterf 


INVALID    COOKERY.  367 

then  add  %  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  boil  10  minutes.    Sweeten  to  taste  and  add 
nutmeg  or  powdered  cinnamon.     It  is  light  and  agreeable  for  a  delicate  stomach. 

Arrowroot.— This  is  a  species  of  starch  obtained  from  the  roots  of  a  variety  of  plants 
cultivated  chiefly  in  the  West  Indies.  The  origin  of  the  name  is  said  to  be  the  use  by  the 
Indians  of  the  fresh  roots  to  cure  the  wounds  caused  by  poisoned  arrows. 

Any  kind  of  starch  to  be  digestible  should  boil  10  to  20  minutes.  It  is  not  enough  to  cook 
ituntil  it  swells,  but  it  must  be  cooked  until  the  starch  granules  burst  their  sheaths. 
Starch  preparations  are  often  cooked  too  little. 

Gruel. — Corn-starch,  Rice,  Wheat  Flour  or  Arrowroot. — Wet  2  teaspoons  of 
the  flour  in  cold  water  or  milk,  stir  into  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  1  saltspoon 
of  salt,  boil  10  to  15  minutes;  thin  it  with  ^  cup  of  milk. 

Barley  Gruel. — Wash  x/2  cup  of  pearl  barley  and  boil  it  in  1  pint  of  water  for 
20  minutes;  pour  off  this  water  and  add  1  quart  of  fresh  boiling  water;  let  it  boil 
until  reduced  %;  strain,  and  add  the  rind  of  a  lemon  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Codfish  Gruel. — Freshen  a  tablespoon  of  shredded  codfish  to  taste;  add  to  it 
1  teaspoon  sifted  flour,  and  1  cup  of  boiling  water — allowing  it  to  simmer  long 
enough  to  thoroughly  cook  the  flour;  add  a  very  little  butter,  and  eat  with 
toasted  cracker. 

Cornmeal  or  Oatmeal  Gruel. — Mix  %  cup  of  the  meal  with  a  little  cold  water; 
then  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  boil  25  or  30  minutes. 
Sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  a  little  nutmeg.  This  makes  a  nice  light  nourishment 
for  the  sick  or  convalescent. 

Cracker  Gruel. — To  4  tablespoons  of  powdered  cracker,  wet  with  boiling  water, 
add  2  cups  of  hot  milk. 

Egg  Gruel. — Beat  well  1  egg,  white  and  yolk  separately;  pour  1  cup  of  boiling 
water  or  milk  to  the  yolk,  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar;  mix  well,  and  stir  in  the  white. 

Onion  Gruel. — Slice  and  cut  finely  2  or  3  small  onions;  stew  them  in  a  quart  of 
water  until  they  are  soft;  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  good  extract  of  beef.  This 
is  excellent  for  a  cold.  Or-  the  onions  may  be  stewed  in  milk  instead  of  water, 
and  a  sprinkle  of  oatmeal  and  a  pinch  of  pepper  stirred  in,  instead  of  the  meat 
extract  if  preferred.    Take  it  just  before  getting  into  bed. 

Milk  Porridge. — Boil  24  raisins  cut  in  quarters,in  water  enough  to  cover  them, 
20  minutes;  when  plump,  and  the  water  has  evaporated,  add  2  cups  of  milk,  and 
when  boiling  add  1  teaspoon  of  flour  rubbed  to  a  paste;  let  it  boil  up,  then  with  a 
little  cold  milk  add  the  white  of  an  egg  well  beaten. 

Oatmeal  Jelly  or  Stiff  Porridge. — Keep  a  pint  of  water  boiling,  and  while  it  is 
still  on  the  fire,  stir  in  small  quantities  of  oatmeal  very  fast,  sprinkling  it  in, 
until  it  is  rather  thick;  then  boil  it  slowly  %  hour.  Turn  it  out  into  a  soup  plate, 
and  eat  it  with  milk,  or  syrup,  or  butter  and  salt. 

Elm  Jelly. — To  1  quart  of  water  add  4  tablespoons  chipped  slippery  elm,  and 
let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  strain  off  the  water,  add  1  or  2  slices  of 
lemon  (without  seeds),  sweeten,  and  let  it  boil  for  10  minutes.  Remove  the  lemon, 
and  pour  it  into  a  mold  to  cool  and  harden. 

Rice  Jelly. — Make  a  thin  paste  of  2  oz.  of  rice  flour  and  3  oz.  of  loaf  sugar; 
boil  them  in  a  quart  of  water  till  transparent.  Flavor  with  rose,  orange,  or  cin- 
namon water.  It  can  be  made  also  by  boiling  whole  rice  long  and  slowly.  A 
pinch  of  salt  improves  it. 

Tapioca  Jelly. — Choose  the  largest  sort,  pour  on  cold  water  to  wash  it  2  or  3 
times,  then  soak  it  in  fresh  water  5  or  6  hours,  and  simmer  it  in  the  same  until  it 
becomes  clear,  adding  the  peel  of  1  lemon;  then  add  sugar,  and  lemon  juice.  It 
thickens  very  much.    Wine  is  also  sometimes  added  for  invalids. 

Restorative  Jelly. — Use  1  box  of  gelatine,  1  tablespoon  of  powdered  gum  arabic, 


368  INVALID    COOKERY. 

3^  pint  of  port  wine,  juice  of  3^  a  lemon,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  3  whole 
cloves;  put  all  in  a  covered  glass  jar,  set  on  a  plate  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  let  it 
soak  %  hour,  put  it  on  the  tire,  and  heat  slowly;  when  all  is  dissolved,  stir  well, 
and  strain  into  a  shallow  dish,  and  cut  in  squares. 

Wiiie  Jelly. — Use  %  CUP  °f  gelatine;  soak  soft  in  %  cup  of  cold  water;  then 
pour  in  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sherry 
wine;  stir  and  strain  through  a  cloth  into  a  mold. 

Milk  or  Cream  Toast. — Toast  a  slice  of  bread  uniformly  brown.  Break  the 
crust  by  rolling,  and  add  sufficient  hot  milk  or  cream  to  thoroughly  soak  it. 
Sweeten  with  powdered  sugar. 

Sippets. — When  the  stomach  cannot  bear  meat,  toast  some  slices  of  bread,  lay 
them  on  a  hot  plate,  and  pour  hot  meat  gravy  over  them;  add  salt  to  taste. 

Boiled  or  Baked  Flour. — Tie  some  flour  in  a  cloth  as  if  it  were  a  pudding,  put 
it  in  boiling  water  and  boil  for  3  hours;  then  scrape  down  the  inner  part  of  the 
ball,  and  use  a  tablespoon  in  a  pint  of  milk  to  make  a  gruel.  Or  put  the  flour  on 
a  tin  in  the  oven  and  bake  it  till  it  is  a  light  brown;  then  use  as  before.  Both 
these  preparations  are  more  digestible  than  uncooked  flour. 

Cracker  Panada.— Pour  over  3  or  4  crackers  in  a  sauce-pan  enough  water  to 
barely  cover  them.  Boil  2  or  3  minutes.  Pour  off  the  surplus  water,  and  add 
enough  hot  milk  or  cream  to  soak  them.     Sweeten  with  powdered  sugar. 

Iceland  Moss. — Wash  1  oz.  in  boiling  water;  then  boil  slowly  in  a  pint  of  water 
until  quite  soft.  Strain  through  cloth,  and  sweeten.  When  done  it  will  make  a 
very  palatable  dish. 

Iceland  Moss.— This  is  really  a  lichen  not  a  moss.  It  grows  in  northern  latitudes. 
Its  hitter  taste  is  due  to  an  acid  it  contains,  hut  by  soaking  it  in  a  weak  solution  of  car- 
bonate of  soda  that  can  he  removed.  It  contains  about  10  per  cent  of  water;  9  of  albume- 
noids;  70  of  lichen  starch;  6  of  lichen  acids;  3!4  of  cellulose,  andlV£  of  mineral  matter. 

Irish  Moss  is  a  seaweed,  collected  mostly  on  the  coasts  of  Ireland.  Its  chief  constituent 
is  a  kind  of  mucilage  which  dissolves  to  a  stiff  paste  in  hoiling  water;  it  also  contains  a 
little  iodine  and  much  sulphur.  Its  constituents  are,  water  19%  ;  alhumenoids9;  mucilage, 
etc.,  56 ;  mineral  matter  14.  It  should  he  soaked  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  so  hef ore  being 
boiled  in  water  or  milk.  It  will  often  relieve  a  severe  cough,  and  is  frequently  given  in 
cases  of  rheumatism  and  gout. 

Arrowroot  Blanc  Mange. — Mix  arrowroot  in  the  usual  way,  but  use  3  times 
more  than  you  would  for  gruel;  add  milk  and  flavoring;  sweeten  to  taste  and  sim- 
mer till  thick  enough  for  a  mold. 

Rice  Blanc  Mange. — Boil  as  much  ground  rice  in  a  pint  of  milk  as  will  make 
it  thick  enough  to  turn  out  of  a  mold,  sweetening  and  flavoring  to  taste.  A  sauce 
can  be  added  of  milk,  cream,  or  any  invalid  custard. 

Sago  Blanc  Mange  is  made  the  same  way,  first  washing  the  sago  in  several 
waters. 

Tapioca  Blanc  Mange  is  made  the  same  way,  washing  the  tapioca,  and  using 
less  of  it. 

Taganrok  Blanc  Mange. — Put  2  cups  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  bring  it  to  a  boil, 
and  sprinkle  in  2  tablespoons  taganrok  farina,  stirring  all  the  time;  add  %  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  cook  30  minutes,  stirring  often;  then  turn  into  a  mold  which  has 
been  wet  with  cold  water;  let  cool,  and  serve  ice  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 
(Taganrok  is  Russian  wheat  farina.  It  can  be  bought  in  small  packages  at  the 
stores.) 

A  Delicate  Dish  for  Invalids. — Heat  1  pint  of  rich  milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  3 
tablespoons  of  ceraline;  beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg  and  put  in  while  hot;  add  a 
little  salt,  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  or  leave  out  the  sugar  if  preferred  without; 
add  a  little  pepper. 


FOREIGN  COOKERY- 

A  brief  glance  at  the  cookery  of  other  nations  may  be  of  interest  to  our  readers. 
Those  who  are  fond  of  trying  experiments  may  be  glad  to  try  some  of  the  foreign 
dishes.  Owing  to  our  limited  space  we  can  give  only  a  few  recipes— not  as  many 
as  we  are  tempted  to  do,  but  a  good  many  foreign  recipes  of  various  kinds  will  be 
found  scattered  through  our  pages,  in  addition  to  those  which  we  give  here. 

English  Cookery.— English  cookery  resembles  the  American  more  than  that  of 
any  other  nation.  The  cooking  of  meat  is  much  the  same  in  the  two  countries,  but 
in  America  meat  is  so  plentiful  that  much  more  is  wasted,  in  fact,  probably  no 
other  nation  wastes  as  much  food  of  any  kind  as  the  American.  It  is  a  national 
characteristic  which  often  impresses  foreigners.  The  varieties  of  fish,  fruit  and 
vegetables  eaten  in  the  two  countries  vary  slightly,  although  in  the  main  they  are 
similar,  and  so  is  the  method  of  cooking  them.  It  is  unnecessary  to  give  recipes 
here,  as  so  many  English  recipes  are  given  in  the  body  of  our  work,  and  the 
cookery  of  the  two  countries  is  so  similar  that  they  would  present  little  novelty,  or 
contrast  to  our  readers.  It  will  be  better  to  devote  our  limited  space  to  other 
countries. 

FRENCH  COOKERY. 

The  French  are  justly  proud  of  their  cookery  which  ranks  very  high,  perhaps 
higher  than  that  of  any  other  nation.  Garlic  is  very  generally  used  in  flavoring 
French  dishes,  so  much  being  often  used  as  to  render  them  quite  unpalatable  to 
the  unaccustomed  taste,  but  in  delicate  cooking  its  presence  is  hardly  noticed. 
Much  importance  is  attached  to  a  good  dish  of  fish.  In  a  country  like  France 
where  the  church  prescribes  as  a  panacea  a  maigre  fare  twice  a  week  (though  it 
is  generally  observed  only  on  Fridays)  this  attention  to  the  preparation  of  fish  is 
quite  natural. 

In  cooking  meats  the  French  disguise  or  cover  the  taste  in  various  ways, 
while  the  English  and  American  system  retains  the  original  flavor  more  generally. 
The  French  say  that  their  Anglican  cousins  eat  their  meat  raw,  while,  on  the 
other  hand,  we  think  they  lose  much  of  the  rich  flavor  of  the  meat  by  so  uniformly 
disguising  it.  Possibly,  however,  the  conditions  of  the  different  countries  regu- 
late these  matters  largely,  for  while  with  the  best  meat  much  is  gained  by  retain- 
ing its  flavor,  with  inferior  qualities  more  is  gained  by  masking  it,  and  probably 
the  quality  of  the  meat  is  generally  better  in  England  and  America  than  in 
France.  The  very  general  custom  of  making  soups  and  stews,  draws  out  of 
the  meat  its  salts  and  extractives,  and  leaves  the  fibrin  and  other  ingredients 
insipid  and  unpalatable.  These  remnants  of  meat,  however,  contain  elements  of 
food  essential  to  the  system,  and  by  the  use  of  sauces  and  flavorings  they  are 
made  very  palatable  and  attractive  by  the  French. 

Much  bread  is  baked  in  country  houses,  and  large  flat,  plain  cakes,  called 
galettes,  composed  principally  of  flour  and  water,  (the  butter  being  conspicuous 
by  its  absence)  are  universal.  The  smaller  cakes  are  delightful.  Vanilla  is  the 
most  popular  flavoring.  Delicate  little  puffs  made  in  soft,  flaky  rolls,  are  filled 
with  preserves  of  various  kinds,  but  the  vanilla  flavor  is  traceable  in  most  of 
them. 

There  is  a  sort  of  national  jam,  called  raisinet.  It  is  very  common  with  the 
middle  classes,  and  is  used  for  cakes,  and  for  eating  with  bread  and  butter.  Its 
foundation  is  the  new  wine  as  it  comes  from  the  press,  and  into  this  are  thrown 
turnips,  carrots,  plums,  apples,  pears  or  any  other  fruit  that  may  be  in  season, 
and  it  is  kept  stirring  for  24  hours.  No  sugar  is  added,  but  the  process  of  long 
boiling  is  sufficient  to  make  it  keep  for  a  whole  year.  Fruit  syrups  are  a  great 
feature  in  France.  Raspberries,  strawberries,  currants,  apples,  apricots  and 
every  sort  of  fruit  is  utilized.  These  syrups  are  used  for  sauces,  as  well  as  mixed 
with  water  for  drinks,  and  grateful  indeed  are  these  cooling  beverages  in  the 
sultry  days  of  a  French  summer. 

24  (393) 


394  FOREIGN  COOKERY. 

But  the  French  especially  excel  in  their  entrees  or  made  dishes,  and  there  is 
something  both  artistic  and  scientific  in  the  refinement  of  taste  which  they  dis- 
play in  their  various  combinations  of  mushrooms,  truffles,  and  other  garnitures 
and  seasonings.  A  great  delicacy  made  by  these  people  is  the  airy  vol-au-vent. 
Everything  is  converted  into  a  vol-au-vent.  Meat  of  all  descriptions  cut  up 
small  in  a  delicate  sauce;  in  like  manner  fricasseed  fowl,  fish  stewed  in  wine,  and 
game  dressed  in  savory  fashion  find  a  place  in  this  flaky  receptacle.  As  a  sweet, 
also,  it  is  much  favored,  fruit  and  preserves  often  making  their  appearance  when 
the  top  is  removed.  The  pates  of  France  may  be  regarded  as  the  equivalent  of 
the  German  wurst,  and  there  is  a  great  variety  in  their  seasoning  and  in  the 
different  kinds  of  meat  employed  in  their  fabrication.  In  bon-bons,  however,  no 
people  can  equal  the  French  in  the  variety  and  excellence  of  their  production, 
and  probably  no  other  people  are  so  fond  of  sweetmeats.  Children,  especially, 
are  surfeited  with  them,  so  that  it  is  probably  detrimental  to  their  health.  Other 
nations  do  well  not  to  imitate  them  in  this  regard. 

The  economy  of  French  cooks  is  very  noticeable.  Everything  in  the  way  of 
food  is  utilized.  Among  the  poorer  French  people,  no  matter  to  what  class  they 
belong,  there  is  far  less  meat  consumed  than  among  the  same  classes  here,  yet 
the  fare  is  more  dainty,  appetizing  and  varied  than  ours.  In  their  hands  veget- 
ables are  not  merely  accessories,  but  are  made  the  most  attractive  of  foods.  The 
very  poor,  however,  live  on  the  simplest  fare.  It  is  no  uncommon  thing  to  see  a 
laboring  man  or  woman,  (for  women  too  labor  in  the  fields)  making  his  or  her 
meal  on  a  piece  of  dry  bread  and  garlic. 

We  have  space  to  give  but  few  French  dishes  in  this  place,  but  very  many 
most  desirable  French  recipes  are  given  in  the  body  of  our  work.  Their  bouillon, 
bouillabaise,  julienne  and  other  soups;  their  bechamel,  matelote,  maitre  d'  hotel 
and  other  sauces;  their  beef  a  la  mode  and  various  other  dishes  will  be  found  in 
their  appropriate  places  in  our  work.  Every  year  sees  a  more  general  use  of  good 
French  recipes  by  our  own  people. 

Coiii't  Bouillon  to  Boil  Fish  in. —Take  1%  quarts  of  water  and  put  into  it  3 
tablespoons  of  salt  and  1  of  pepper  seeds;  3ij  pint  cider  vinegar;  2  cloves,  2  onions, 
2  bay  leaves,  1  carrot.    Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  then  put  in  the  fish. 

Macetloin  of  Vegetables. — In  the  spring  select  good  fresh  vegetables  whieh 
match  well,  like  asparagus,  turnips,  carrots,  string  beans,  etc.  Cut  the  asparagus 
into  1)4.  inch  pieces,  the  beans  into  lozenges,  and  the  others  into  fancy  shapes, 
and  cook  each  kind  separately  in  salted  water  till  tender;  then  drain  them.  Put 
butter  into  a  stewing-pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  melts  put  in  the  vegetables  and  stir 
them  a  little  over  a  moderate  fire.  Use  just  butter  enough  to  envelope  the 
vegetables,  but  no  more.  When  well  warmed,  add  enough  bechamel  sauce  to 
moisten  them.  Then  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid  and 
serve.  * 

Fillets  de  Tent. — Take  the  white  of  1  egg  and  6  oz.  of  white  sugar;  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  stir  together  till  about  as  thick  as  icing.  Put  little  bunches  on  paper 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Mirotin  of  Yeal. — Take  remnants  of  veal  and  chop  fine,  adding  some  fat  bacon 
if  you  have  it.  Take  %  as  much  bread  crumbs  as  meat,  and  put  it  in  milk;  when 
well  soaked,  take  out,  squeeze  dry  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  add  it  to  the  meat.  Add 
also  1  egg  beaten  light,  salt,  pepper  and  a  slice  of  onion  and  a  little  parsley 
minced  together.  Put  all  together  in  a  sauce-pan,  mix  thoroughly,  and  merely 
warm  without  cooking.  Now  take  a  deep  dish,  butter  it  well,  put  in  the  mixture, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.    Turn  it  out  whole,  and  serve  with  caper  sauce. 

Ramequins. — In  a  gratin  dish,  put  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter;  now  put  in 
a  layer  of  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  cover  it  with  cheese  in  thin  slices.  Next  take 
1  cup  milk,  stir  in  3  eggs,  and  pour  over  all.  Put  in  the  oven  and  bake  till  the 
top  is  light  brown,  which  should  be  in  15  minutes.    Delicious, 


FOREIGN  COOKERY.  395 

GERMAN   COOKERY. 

The  Germans  possess  good  appetites  and  are  highly  critical  in  the  matter  of 
cooking.  Perhaps  the  greatest  difference  between  the  German  cooking  and  our 
own  consists  in  their  greater  use  of  seasoning,  principally  fresh  and  dried  herbs 
of  all  kinds.  Many  dishes  which  we  look  upon  as  ready  for  the  table  they  would 
regard  as  only  half  prepared.  Certainly  the  Germans  take  a  great  deal  of  pains 
in  the  preparation  ot  all  kinds  of  meat.  Joints  to  be  roasted,  after  having  been 
wiped  and  deprived  of  all  superfluous  fat,  gristle,  or  any  unsightly  scraps,  are 
thoroughly  rubbed  with  a  mixture  of  herbs,  selected  according  to  the  different 
nature  of  the  meat  to  be  dressed.  Then  onion,  allspice,  pepper  and  salt,  and  occa- 
sionally cloves,  are  placed  in  the  pan  and  the  joint  is  basted  frequently  with  the 
gravy  thus  flavored,  all  of  which  adds  a  refined  and  delicate  flavor  to  its  taste. 

Their  manner  of  cooking  vegetables  is  more  artistic  than  our  own.  A  delicate 
savoy  cabbage  with  which  we  would  be  satisfied  when  thoroughly  boiled  in  salt 
and  water,  would  not  seem  so  perfect  were  we  to  taste  a  similar  cabbage  after  a 
German  handling,  with  the  addition  of  shalot  delicately  fried  in  clarified  butter, 
pepper,  parsley,  and  just  a  touch  of  flour.  German  cooks  are  scrupulously  atten- 
tive to  washing  their  vegetables,  and  consume  large  quantities  of  water  in  the 
process. 

The  excellence  of  German  bakers  is  well  known,  for  they  are  to  be  found  scat- 
tered all  over  our  own  country,  and  most  of  us  are  familiar  with  the  varieties  of 
brown  and  white  bread  which  they  make,  as  well  as  rolls  of  every  description. 
The  German  families  buy  their  bread  very  largely  at  the  baker's  instead  of  mak- 
ing it  at  home.  The  cakes,  however,  every  family  makes,  or  can  make  themselves; 
plain  or  rich  cakes,  bread  tarts,  and  foam  tarts  (the  foam  being  a  combination  of 
eggs  and  sifted  sugar)  as  well  as  open  tarts,  not  made  with  preserves  as  ours  are, 
but  of  the  lightest  dough  rolled  out  and  cut  into  long  or  round  shapes  and  thickly 
overlaid  with  fresh  fruit,  sprinkled  with  sugar  and  currants,  the  juice  permeat- 
ing the  crust  and  none  of  it  being  lost,  thus  giving  a  rich  flavor  to  the  tart. 
Stewed  fruit  is  frequently  used  at  German  tables  as  a  substitute  for  a  second 
vegetable.  With  roast  pork,  for  example,  a  large  basin  of  stewed  plums  generally 
makes  its  appearance,  instead  of  the  side-dish  of  apple  sauce  to  which  we  treat  it. 
Apple  compote  is  served  in  the  same  way  with  roast  veal  or  fowl.  Ducks,  geese 
and  turkeys  are  usually  stuffed  with  chestnuts  and  spices. 

The  knowledge  of  cookery  runs  through  all  classes,  and  is  an  essential  part  of 
a  girl's  education.  The  great  majority  of  families  belonging  to  the  middle  classes 
in  Germany  live  in  flats,  even  those  who  maybe  termed  wealthy.  The  daughters, 
even  in  the  highest  class,  take  their  turn,  week  about,  in  superintending  the 
management  of  the  house,  thus  learning  housekeeping  and  cooking  from  earliest 
youth. 

Bretzeln. — Mix  1  large  tablespoon  yeast  into  ^  pint  warm  milk;  stir  it  into 
1%  lbs.  of  flour,  and  beat  it  well.  In  another  pan  beat  %  lb.  butter  to  cream;  add 
to  this  2  oz.  sifted  sugar,  3  eggs,  another  tablespoon  of  yeast,  and  a  little  salt. 
Put  the  dough  into  this,  and  beat  all  together  thoroughly  till  quite  smooth;  cut 
off  pieces  the  size  of  an  egg,  roll  them  into  round  bars  6  to  8  inches  long,  and 
tapering  off  at  the  ends.  Lay  them  on  buttered  tins,  curving  them  in  half  circles 
or  new  moon  shapes;  leaving  space  between  each.  Put  them  by  gentle  warmth 
to  rise;  when  light,  brush  them  over  with  egg,  dust  sugar  over,  and  bake  them  a 
pale  brown. 

Chickens  (Ordinary  German  Way). — Stuff  2  chickens  with  a  stuffing  made  of 
French  rolls;  a  little  butter,  1  egg,  1  onion  finely  shredded;  parsley,  thyme  and 
grated  lemon  peel.  Next  lard  and  bread  crumb  them,  placing  a  piece  of  fat  over 
the  breast  that  they  may  not  become  too  brown.  Place  the  chickens  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  1  oz.  butter;  leave  uncovered  for  a  short  time,  then  cover  and  bake  for 
1%  hours.  Half  an  hour  before  serving  add  1  small  cup  of  cream,  and  baste 
thoroughly  over  a  hotter  fire. 

Dicke  Milch. — This  is  new  milk  put  into  a  pie  dish  or  other  shallow  vessel  and 


396  FOREIGN  COOKERY. 

allowed  to  stand  2  or  3  days,  according  to  the  weather,  until  it  is  sour  and  thick, 
but  not  quite  so  thick  as  blanc  mange.  Only  experience  can  guide  one  as  to  the 
exact  stage  at  which  it  is  ready  to  use.  If  left  too  long  a  watery  fluid  rises  to  the 
top.    It  is  eaten  with  bread  crumbs  and  sugar. 

Frothed  Milk  Soup. — Pound  6  bitter  almonds,  and  boil  them  in  2  quarts  milk, 
or  instead  of  the  almonds  use  3^  a  stick  of  vanilla;  add  sugar  to  taste  and  a  little 
salt.  Beat  separately  4  eggs;  the  whites  must  be  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  then 
mixed  with  the  yolks.  Let  the  milk  just  cease  boiling,  and  whisk  in  the  eggs  till 
it  froths  well,  but  not  over  the  fire  or  the  eggs  will  curdle.  Serve  with  small 
sponge  biscuit. 

Grrutze. — Boil  2  lbs.  red  currants  and  ~%  lb.  raspberries,  in  1)4  pints  water; 
when  quite  soft  pass  through  a  sieve.  Make  this  juice  boil,  and  add  %  lb.  sago 
well  soaked  in  water;  let  it  boil  34  hour,  stirring  it  all  the  time.  Wet  a  mold 
with  cold  water,  pour  in,  and  when  cold  turn  it  out.  To  be  eaten  with  milk, 
cream  or  custard.    Any  other  fruit  or  preserve  will  do  as  well. 

Criilasch.- — Cut  a  tender  piece  of  steak  into  quite  small  pieces,  lay  them  in  a 
deep  frying  pan,  with  a  little  bacon,  some  slices  of  onion,  and  a  little  pepper  and 
salt;  fry  them  in  butter  till  the  gravy  looks  brown;  then  add  a  little  lemon  juice 
and  a  small  quantity  of  water.  Cover  the  pan,  and  let  the  contents  simmer  till 
the  meat  is  quite  done. 

Knodeln. — Mash  3  or  4  large  potatoes  smoothly  with  1  large  tablespoon  of 
flour,  and  mix  with  1  well-beaten  egg;  make  into  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and 
boil.  These  are  served  with  meat  in  the  place  of  other  vegetables.  They  can 
also  be  baked. 

Koche  {Molds).— We  have  no  suitable  term  for  this  sort  of  a  dish  in  English. 
Sponge  pudding  is  the  nearest,  but  this  does  not  do  it  justice;  nor  is  custard 
right.    We  must  therefore  call  it  mold. 

Chocolate  Mold. — Whip  2  oz.  of  butter  with  2  oz.  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
and  3  oz.  of  grated  chocolate;  mix  in  the  3  whites  whisked  to  a  stiff  snow;  bake 
in  a  buttered  mold. 

Potato  Mold. — Whisk  3  eggs  with  2  oz.  of  sugar  and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel; 
then  stir  in  a  pint  of  cream  and  enough  grated  cold  potatoes  to  form  a  very  thick 
batter,  which  must  be  so  stiff  that  it  will  not  drop  from  the  spoon.  Bake  in  a 
well-buttered  mold. 

Egg  Mold. — Use  4  oz.  of  butter,  4  oz.  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  8  eggs,  the  grated 
peel  and  juice  of  %  lemon,  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  whip  them  to  a  foam;  then 
stir  in  the  whites  of  4  eggs  in  a  stiff  snow.     Bake  it  in  a  buttered  form  or  dish. 

Neuii-loth  Pudding.  —This  favorite  pudding  is  made  as  follows:  Stir  )£  pint 
of  milk  into  &%  oz.  fine  flour  and  i%  oz.  powdered  loaf  sugar.  Put  ^%  oz-  butter 
and  %  Pmt  or  niilk  into  a  stewpan,  and  when  this  is  hot  and  the  butter  is  melted, 
stir  in  the  other  milk  and  flour;  keep  the  mixture  stirred  over  the  fire  till  it  boils 
and  thickens;  then  turn  it  out  into  a  pan  to  cool.  Stir  in  the  yolks  of  9  eggs  and 
4)^  oz.  almonds  blanched  and  pounded,  and  lastly  the  9  egg  whites,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  snow.  Stir  all  briskly  together,  butter  a  mold  or  basin,  fill  it,  and  boil  the 
pudding  1%  hours.    The  water  must  not  cease  boiling.    Serve  with  a  good  sauce. 

Nudels. — Beat  2  eggs,  work  into  them  by  degrees  as  much  flour  as  they  will 
take,  and  knead  them  into  a  smooth  stiff  paste.  Cut  into  4  or  6  parts,  make  into 
balls,  and  roll  out  as  thin  as  paper,  and  spread  it  on  a  napkin  in  the  sun  or  near 
the  fire  to  dry;  it  dries  quickly.  Then  cut  into  quarters,  lay  the  pieces  on  top  of 
each  other,  and  cut  into  strips  as  narrow  as  twine.    Dry  them  well  and  they  will 


FOREIGN  COOKERY.  39? 

keep  some  time.  They  can  be  made  white  by  using  only  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  flour.  Keep  the  board  well  floured  while  rolling  them.  They  are  used  much 
like  the  Italian  maccaroni.  A  common  way  is  to  drop  them  into  boiling  water 
well  salted;  they  will  cook  in  about  5  minutes;  pour  browned  butter  on  them 
when  they  are  served,  and  add  a  little  grated  cheese  if  desired. 

Sauerbraten. — This  is  one  of  the  great  national  dishes.  Lay  a  piece  of  beef  in 
a  deep  dish  and  pour  a  cup  of  vinegar  over  it.  Leave  it  in  this  2  to  4  days,  turn- 
ing and  basting  it  every  day.  To  prepare  for  cooking  wipe  it  dry;  cut  strips  of 
fat  bacon  the  size  of  a  little  finger;  roll  them  in  a  mixed  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper 
and  ground  cloves.  Make  holes  in  the  meat,  and  with  a  large  skewer  put  in  the 
pieces  of  bacon.  Make  butter  hot  in  an  iron  pot  or  stewpan,  just  large  enough 
to  hold  it;  put  in  the  beef  and  set  it  over  a  brisk  fire,  letting  the  steam  escape  to 
hasten  the  browning;  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  turn  it  when  one  side  is  brown. 
When  the  meat  is  nicely  colored  add  about  1  pint  of  water;  2  carrots  quartered 
lengthwise;  1  or  2  large  onions  sliced;  2  or  3  bay  leaves;  1  teaspoon  of  whole 
pepper;  a  blade  of  mace;  J4  of  a  lemon  peel;  and  a  good  sprinkling  of  salt.  Cover 
closely,  and  let  it  steam  2  or  3  hours,  adding  a  little  water  when  necessary.  At 
serving  time  take  up  the  meat  and  keep  it  hot  while  you  skim  off  the  fat  and 
strain  the  gravy.  The  unbroken  carrots  may  be  laid  around  the  meat.  Add 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar  if  the  sauce  requires  more  acid;  thicken  it  with  flour,  give 
it  a  boil  up,  pour  a  little  over  the  meat,  and  serve  the  rest  in  a  sauceboat. 

Sticklerspersgrod. — For  this  simple  and  cheap  dish,  well  flavored,  ripe  red 
gooseberries  are  used.  Take  4  lbs.  gooseberries  with  %  lb.  raspberries,  keep 
them  stirred  gently  in  a  stewpan  over  a  clear  fire  till  the  fruit  is  quite  soft, 
then  mash  and  strain  the  juice  through  a  cloth.  Make  this  juice  quite  boil; 
then  add  ~%  lb-  sugar  and  6  oz-.  corn  flour  or  arrowroot;  let  it  boil  10  minutes,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  Wet  a  mold  with  cold  water,  pour  it  in,  and  when  cold  turn  it 
out.  The  best  proportion  is  1  pint  juice  to  34  lb.  corn  flour.  To  be  eaten  in  soup 
plates  with  sifted  sugar  and  milk. 

Sauerkraut  is  given  in  our  article  on  "Vegetables." 


ITALIAN    COOKERY- 

Italian  cooking  has  a  general  resemblance  to  the  French.  In  fact  there  is 
more  or  less  resemblance  in  the  cooking  of  all  the  Latin  races.  Their  soups  are 
endless  in  variety,  and  are  sometimes  prepared  with  vegetables  and  sometimes 
without.  A  dish  which  may  almost  be  called  national,  so  general  is  its  use,  is 
the  Minestrone,  or  large,  thick  soup.  It  consists  of  vegetable's  stewed  together 
for  many  hours,  thickened  with  rice  and  a  strip  of  bacon  added.  Macaroni  is 
absent,  but  Parmesan  cheese  is  plentifully  added.  Joints  of  meat  are  cut  smaller 
than  with  us,  but  they  are  quite  commonly  garnished  with  olives,  and  so  are  their 
ragouts  and  stews.  The  Italians  have  a  most  delicate  way  of  preparing  cutlets, 
and  veal  cutlets  are  in  especial  favor.  Sausage  making  is  carried  to  a  high  degree 
of  excellence,  and  there  are  some  varieties  (like  the  Bologna)  which  are  well 
known  abroad. 

Italian  bread  is  light  and  pleasant  to  the  taste,  and  many  kinds  of  rolls  and 
cakes  are  artistically  shaped.  Ricotta,  as  well  as  macaroni,  and  Risotto,  a  rice 
pudding,  may  be  called  a  national  dish,  as  it  makes  its  appearance  almost  daily 
on  Italian  tables.  Although  possessing  fruit  in  abundance  their  syrups  are 
inferior  to  those  of  France,  and  hence,  doubtless,  are  little  used,  but  the  use  of 
lemonade  as  a  beverage  is  universal.  In  the  manufacture  of  ices  they  certainly 
excel,  and  in  the  variety  and  excellence  of  their  bon-bons  they  nearly  equal  the 
French.  A  great  deal  of  fruit  is  consumed,  and  no  country  is  richer  in  its  produc- 
tions of  this  kind.     Oil  is  very  generally  used  in  their  cooking  now,  as  in  olden 


398  FOREIGN  COOKERY. 

times,  taking  the  place  of  butter  used  in  English  and  American  cooking,  and  of 
course  this  affects  the  flavor  of  many  dishes. 

Bracciolette. — Take  a  fillet  of  beef,  remove  all  fat  and  gristle,  and  mince  it 
finely,  mixing  with  it  salt,  1  or  2  cloves  (powdered),  and  a  little  oil  and  chopped 
fat  bacon,  sweet  herbs  and  parsley  to  taste.  When  well  amalgamated  roll  it  out, 
and  divide  into  small  pieces;  form  each  into  a  ball,  roll  them  in  liquified  butter, 
and  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs.  Just  before  they  are  wanted,  broil  them  on  a 
good  fire,  first  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other,  if  done  too  long  they  will  be 
spoiled. 

Croccante. — Take  ~%  lb.  finely  chopped  (and  blanched)  sweet  almonds;  3^  lb. 
loaf  sugar;  1  tablespoon  essence  of  lemon,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut; 
boil  in  a  sauce-pan  till  it  browns  (15  to  20  minutes);  turn  into  a  flat,  buttered  pan 
and  cut  when  cold  into  small  pieces,  eating  cold. 

(Jniocchi  of  Semolina. — Take  1  lb.  good  semolina  and  1  pint  milk.  Put  the 
milk,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  water,  on  the  fire,  and  before  it  reaches  the  boil- 
ing point  sprinkle  in  the  semolina;  then  let  it  boil,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
sufficiently  cooked  turn  it  out  on  the  pasteboard,  which  should  be  previously 
sprinkled  with  cold  water.  When  cold,  cut  the  paste  into  pieces  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Put  them  on  a  dish,  season  them  well  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  add  butter.  Put  them  in  the  Dutch  oven  and  bake  1 
hour  before  serving. 

Minestra. — Cut  up  3  or  4  potatoes,  add  a  proportionate  quantity  of  beans  (dried 
ones  are  best),  onions,  carrots,  and  celery  sliced,  and  if  in  season  sliced  vegetable 
marrow  and  pumpkin  rind.  Boil  all  these  in  34  sauce-pan  of  water  till  the  pota- 
toes are  quite  soft,  adding  salt.  Then  add  }£  lb.  rice  or  maccaroni;  boil  a  little 
longer,  as  the  rice  ought  not  to  be  soft,  and  before  taking  off  the  fire  add  1  oz. 
butter  (a  spoonful  of  olive  oil  is  orthodox),  and  as  much  Parmesan  cheese;  stir  a 
few  moments  and  serve.  Grated  cheese  may  with  advantage  be  added  after- 
wards. 

Ricotta. — Strain  1  gallon  of  fresh  whey  into  a  flat  copper  pan,  put  it  on  a  gen- 
tle fire,  and  as  soon  as  a  kind  of  froth  begins  to  rise  on  it  add  1  quart  of  milk,  and 
stir  the  mixture  lightly  with  a  stick  until  a  thick  froth  rises  all  over  the  surface; 
gather  this  froth  with  a  spoon,  and  put  it  to  drain  in  a  very  fine  tin  colander,  and 
the  ricotta  is  made.  Carefully  avoid  letting  the  milk  and  whey  come  to  a  boil  at 
any  time  during  the  process. 

Risotto.— Take  34  lb.  rice,  and  boil  it  with  sufficient  salt  in  a  little  more  water 
than  will  cover  it,  till  the  rice  begins  to  swell;  it  must  not  get  too  soft.  Then  add 
a  pinch  of  saffron,  just  to  color  it,  or,  if  possible,  1  tablespoon  of  tomato  sauce; 
also  about  1  oz.  butter,  and  as  much  grated  Parmesan  cheese;  stir  for  a  few  min- 
utes, and  serve.     This  is  for  4  people. 

Polenta  with  Gravy. — Into  \%  gallons  of  water  put  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  when 
it  boils  stir  in  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time,  1  tablespoon  butter  and  2  cups 
semoule  or  coarse  cornmeal;  boil  20  minutes.  Then  put  a  layer  of  the  polenta  in 
a  dish,  cover  with  tomato  sauce  and  good  gravy  (having  a  cup  of  each  hot  and 
ready)  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  Put  it  into  the  dish  in  alternate  layers 
in  this  way,  and  serve  hot. 

SPANISH   COOKERY. 

In  Spain  the  inhabitants  subsist  mainly  on  maize  and  rice,  with  some  wheat 
and  legumes,  among  them  the  garbanzo  or  "chick  pea."    There  is  little  butter 


"FOREIGN  COOKERY.  399 

used,  the  universal  substitute  being  olive  oil,  which  is  produced  in  great  quanti- 
ties. Fowls  and  the  pig  furnish  the  chief  animal  food,  and  garlic  is  the  favorite 
condiment.  Fruit  is  rine  and  abundant;  especially  so  are  grapes,  figs  and 
melons.    Several  Spanish  recipes  appear  elsewhere  in  our  work. 

011a  Podrida. — First  and  foremost  among  soups  comes  the  far-famed  olla  pod- 
rida,  which  is  so  supremely  dear  to  the  national  heart.  It  is  made  as  follows: 
Spread  a  little  butter  over  the  bottom  of  a  4-quart  sized  kettle  or  stewpan;  upon 
this  lay  4  onions  cut  in  slices,  and  then  4  lbs.  of  gravy-beef  cut  in  thick  slices,  and 
%  lb.  raw  ham  or  lean  bacon,  an  old  partridge  or  pheasant;  add  2  carrots,  celery 
and  parsley  roots,  a  bay  leaf,  thyme,  and  a  clove  of  garlic  tied  up  tightly,  6  cloves, 
and  a  bit  of  mace;  moisten  with  a  quart  of  water  or  stock,  and  boil  down  to  a 
glaze,  or  until  it  begins  to  fry;  fill  up  then  with  water  or  stock  and  simmer  gen- 
tly 2  hours;  strain  into  the  soup-pot  containing  carrots,  turnips,  celery  and  leeks, 
all  cut  tine.  Then  add  a  pint  of  garbanzos  (Spanish  peas),  previously  soaked 
and  boiled,  and  a  dessertspoon  of  Spanish  sweet  red  peppers  chopped  fine;  boil 
gently  until  the  vegetables  are  done.  Have  the  meat  cut  in  small  pieces  in  the 
tureen,  pour  the  hot  soup  over  it,  and  serve  with  bread.  This  of  itself  forms  an 
excellent  dinner. 

Ajo  Blanco. —This  soup  is  extensively  used  in  Andalusia.  Pound  1  clove  of 
garlic  and  7  well-dried  beans  (or,  better  still,  almonds),  in  a  small  spice  mortar  to 
a  smooth  paste.  Moisten  this  paste  with  olive  oil,  drop  by  drop,  then  add  water  by 
degrees  so  as  to  thoroughly  incorporate  and  amalgamate  the  whole;  add  until  it 
is  sufficiently  wet  to  soak  some  bread,  which  must  be  added  later  on,  pouring  in 
some  vinegar  and  a  little  salt.  Then  put  in  the  bread  crumbs,  size  of  half  an 
almond,  and  allow  it  to  soak.  A  final  mixing  of  the  bowl,  and  this  quaint  and 
perfectly  national  dish  awaits  consumption. 

Bacalao. — In  this  land  of  rigid  Catholicism,  bacalao  or  salted  cod,  is  almost 
indispensable  on  the  many  fast  days  in  the  calendar.  .  Cut  up  the  cod  after  it  has 
been  soaked  24  hours,  and  lay  the  pieces  so  as  to  cover  the  bottom  of  a  small 
earthen  jar;  pour  on  this  a  thick  stratum  of  grated  bread,  with  garlic  and  parsley 
in  profusion;  then  more  codfish,  then  bread  again,  and  so  on  till  the  jar  is  full  to 
the  top.  Fill  all  the  crevices  with  raw  oil,  garlic,  pepper  and  salt.  Close  the  jar 
and  boil  till  the  contents  are  nearly  dry;  then  serve.  Codfish  with  honey  or  sugar 
may  be  eaten  by  boiling  the  pieces,  draining  them  dry,  then  soaking  in  honey, 
flouring,  and  then  frying;  or  the  pieces  may  be  covered  with  yolk  of  egg,  floured, 
and  covered  over  with  sugar;  then  fry. 

Carbonada. — Cut  cold  roast  mutton  or  beef  into  pieces  about  1  inch  square, 
and  also  about  equal  amounts  of  squash  and  cold  potatoes;  take  also  2  or  3  ears 
of  corn  and  a  few  string  beans;  put  1  tablespoon  of  lard  into  a  pot,  1  onion 
chopped  fine,  then  the  squash,  then  2  ripe  tomatoes  skinned  and  squeezed,  and  1 
red  pepper  with  the  seeds  removed,  then  the  other  vegetables;  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  stew  30  minutes;  put  in  the  meat  and  stew  30  minutes  more;  salt  to 
taste.    Ten  minutes  before  serving  put  in  the  corn  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Frijoles.- — Cook  pink  beans  until  soft,  in  boiling  water;  drain,  and  mix  in 
finely  chopped  onions,  and  a  little  of  the  water  in  which  the  beans  were  cooked; 
add  salt  and  fry  a  light  brown  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

Otamo. — Slice  equal  amounts  of  onions  and  green  tomatoes,  and  add  a  little 
bell  peppers.  Put  fresh  drippings  and  a  little  hot  water  into  a  hot  skillet,  add 
the  vegetables  and  cook  1  hour,  keeping  closely  covered,  but  stirring  often. 
Serve  hot. 


400  FOREIGN  COOKERY. 

Red  Pepper  Sauce. — Carefully  remove  the  seeds  from  2  sweet  red  peppers,  and 
boil  until  tender;  then  drain,  add  1  clove  of  garlic,  and  rub  to  a  paste,  adding  a 
little  water  if  necessary;  then  heat  %  cup  sweet  oil,  stir  in  the  paste,  season  with 
vinegar  and  salt,  after  removing  from  the  fire,  and  serve. 


JEWISH   COOKERY. 

Jewish  cookery  is  becoming  much  like  that  of  their  Christian  neighbors,  as, 
except  among  the  more  denominationally  strict,  the  old  restrictions  are  melting 
away,  and  they  often  employ  Christian  servants.  From  having  been  forbidden 
to  use  butter  with  meat,  oil  enters  more  largely  into  their  cookery  of  both  meat 
and  vegetables.  Their  fish  fried  in  oil,  and  so  cooked  that  it  can  be  eaten  cold  or 
hot,  enjoys  a  deservedly  high  reputation.  As  the  Mosaic  law  forbids  the  use  of 
any  flesh  as  food  which  is  not  free  from,  "spot  or  blemish,''  the  meat  supplied  by 
the  Jewish  butchers  is  of  the  best  quality. 

Amnastich. — Stew  gently  1  pint  of  rice  in  1  quart  of  strong  gravy  till  it  begins 
to  swell;  then  add  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  chicken 
stuffed  with  forcemeat;  let  it  stew  with  the  rice  till  thoroughly  done,  then  take 
it  up  and  stir  into  the  rice  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  serve 
the  fowl  in  the  same  dish  with  the  rice,  which  should  be  colored  to  a  fine  yellow 
with  saffron. 

Matso  Cakes. — Make  a  stiff  paste  with  biscuit  powder  and  milk  and  water; 
add  a  little  butter,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  white  sugar;  cut  into  pieces, 
and  mold  with  the  hand,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  These  cakes  should  not  be 
too  thin. 

Passover  Pudding. — Mix  equal  quantities  of  biscuit  powder  and  shredded  suet, 
half  as  much  currants  and  raisins,  a  little  spice  and  sugar,  with  1  oz.  candied 
peels,  and  5  well-beaten  eggs;  make  them  into  a  stiff  batter,  and  boil  well,  and 
serve  with  a  sweet  sauce.  This  pudding  is  excellent  baked  in  a  pudding  tin.  It 
must  be  turned  out  when  served. 


TURKISH  COOKERY. 

Cerkestal. — Remains  of  fowls  may  be  stewed  with  an  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  little  water.  Wash  and  bruise  6  walnuts,  and  mix  them  in  some  of  the  gravy, 
adding  a  small  quantity  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  serve  this  as  a  sauce. 

Dolmas. — Chop  some  mutton  or  beef  very  finely,  with  a  little  of  the  fat;  add 
an  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  boiled  rice,  and  mix  it  all  together.  Then  take 
some  cabbage  leaves  and  put  them  into  boiling  water  for  1  or  2  minutes,  and  then 
roll  the  meat  into  them  like  small  sausages;  then  stew  them  in  a  little  broth  or 
water,  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  it. 

Pilau.— Well  wash  6  oz.  of  East  Indian  rice,  and  boil  it  in  a  pint  of  water  for 
5  minutes  at  the  most;  then  throw  it  'into  a  colander  that  it  may  thoroughly 
drain.  Next  place  it  in  a  stewpan  with  1  oz.  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
stirring  well,  and  add  by  degrees  about  %  Pmt  °f  good  fowl  broth.  After  15  or 
20  minutes  it  should  be  perfectly  done  and  turn  out  with  the  grains  separate.  It 
is  to  be  served  perfectly  hot.  The  foregoing  is  a  true  pilau,  but  additions  may 
be  made  of  portions  of  the  meat  of  the  fowl;  of  thin  slices  of  bacon,  curry  powder, 
chutney,  fried  onions,  mushrooms,  tomatoes,  etc.,  but  in  none  of  these  forms 
would  it  be  regarded  as  the  true  Oriental  dish. 


FOREIGN  COOKERS.  401 

RUSSIAN  COOKERY- 

The  Russian  people  during  the  great  fasts  (which  last  4  to  7  weeks,  and  which 
recur  4  times  during  the  year)  sustain  themselves  mainly  on  soup  made  with  the 
bitter  cabbages,  and  a  handful  of  dry  salted  fish  called  sniedky.  It  is  clean 
tasted,  but  one  must  be  a  lover  of  this  fish  to  relish  it.  Like  many  other  northern 
nations  the  Russians  are  fond  of  a  subacid  flavor  in  their  food.  Many  of  their 
soups  are  thus  flavored,  and  where  they  are  not,  a  very  common  thing  is  for  a 
dish  of  sour  cream  to  be  at  hand  with  which  the  consumer  gives  his  food  the  degree 
of  acidity  which  suits  his  palate,  a  spoonful  or  two  being  enough  to  convert  an 
excellent  dish  of  soup  into  what  many  would  consider  a  sour  and  unpalatable 
mess.  The  most  characteristic  national  food  in  Russia,  and  the  daily  food  of 
the  mass  of  the  people,  is  shchi.    It  is  made  as  follows: 

Shchi. — At  the  beginning  of  winter  chop  cabbage  into  shreds  and  put  it  into 
a  barrel  with  vinegar  and  salt.  It  becomes  a  kind  of  sauerkraut  when  a  certain 
amount  of  fermentation  has  taken  place.  It  must  be  watched,  because  if  the 
fermentation  goes  too  far  it  acquires  a  high  and  disagreeable  flavor.  A  portion 
of  this  is  taken  (almost  daily)  and  boiled  with  meat  to  a  kind  of  broth,  which  is 
the  shchi.  By  adding  different  flavors  it  can  be  varied  indefinitely,  and  if  well 
made  it  is  excellent.  Some  of  the  meat  from  which  it  is  made  is  usually  served 
with  the  broth. 

Nalym. — Chop  an  onion,  fry  it  in  2  spoonfuls  fresh  butter  melted;  add  1  spoon- 
ful flour;  mix,  pour  in  a  little  water  and  set  it  to  simmer.  When  it  begins  to 
boil  put  in  5  or  6  potatoes,  cut  into  pieces,  and  add  salt.  Take  fish,  clean,  salt,  cut 
in  convenient  pieces,  add  to  the  former,  and  let  all  simmer  together;  add  some 
barley  grits,  a  little  parsley  and  black  pepper.  Russians  call  this  nalym,  but  it 
is  translated  lavaret,  a  name  familiar  to  travelers  as  that  of  a  kind  of  trout  which 
inhabits  the  lakes  of  Switzerland.  Russia  is  especially  rich  in  fresh  water  fish, 
but  sea  fish  is  little  used.    Shchi  is  sometimes  made  with  sea  fish. 


THE  ADULTERATION  OF  FOOD. 

Every  one  knows  that  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  the  health  and  well 
being  of  a  family  that  the  food  which  it  consumes  shall  be  pure  The  adulter 
ation  of  food  has  received  much  attention  in  recent  years,  and  scientific  chemists 
catj  now  readily  detect  the  various  adulterations  used  in  foods.  The  average 
housewife  cannot,  of  course, be  expected  toqualify  herself  to  perform  the  delicate 
tests  for  detecting  adulterations  which  are  employed  by  the  scientific  analyst, 
but  it  is  well  for  her  to  understand  what  the  principal  adulterations  are,  and 
there  are  a  few  tests  which  she  can  easily  perform,  and  which  it  will  often  be  an 
advantage  for  her  to  know.  The  following  article  explains  what  foods  are  most 
often  adulterated,  what  they  are  adulterated  with,  and  gives  such  tests  as  are 
adapted  for  those  not  possessing  the  delicate  apparatus  or  special  knowledge  of 
the  scientific  chemist. 

There  are  3  principal  ways  of  adulterating  foods.  (1)  By  replacing  a  superior 
article  or  ingredient  by  an  inferior  or  cheaper  substitute.  (2)  By  adding  foreign 
matters  capable  of  giving  an  appearance  of  superiority.  (3)  By  adding  water  to 
increase  the  weight,  this  being  often  accompanied  by  incorporating  foreign 
materials  which  absord  much  water,  though  perhaps  otherwise  harmless.  So 
extensively  are  these  various  forms  of  adulterations  practiced  that  the  United 
States  Department  of  Agriculture  in  its  official  report  estimates  that  15$  of  the 
whole  food  supply  of  the  country  is  adulterated,  which  shows  the  importance  of 
the  subject  to  the  mass  of  the  people. 

Bread. — Bread  and  flour  are  not  often  adulterated  in  the  United  States,  but 
their  adulteration  is  more  common  in  Europe.  The  principal  adulterations  are 
the  use  of  inferior  grains  or  mashed  potatoes,  which  lessens  its  nutritive  value, 
and  alum  which  improves  the  appearance  of  bread  made  from  inferior  flour  and 
enables  it  to  hold  much  more  water.  The  logwood  test  is  used  to  detect  alum, 
which  consists  in  soaking  crumbs  of  bread  for  6  or  7  minutes  in  an  alcoholic  solu- 
tion of  logwood  containing  an  excess  of  carbonate  of  ammonia,  and  then  squeez- 
ing it;  a  more  or  less  deep  blue  color  is  produced  if  alum  is  present. 

Tea. — The  4  principal  adulterations  consist  in:  (1)  Mixing  in  spent  or  exhausted 
leaves  which  have  been  redried,  gummed,  curled,  and  faced  with  coloring  matter. 
A  most  expensive  system  of  this  adulteration  is  practiced  in  China.  (2)  Tea  is  some- 
times mixed  with  the  leaves  of  other  trees,  like  those  of  the  sloe  tree,  ash  tree, 
elder,  beach  and  willow.  (3)  Astringents  and  foreign  substances  are  added 
designed  to  increase  the  apparent  strength  and  quality.  (4)  Pacing  is  practiced, 
which  consists  in  using  various  coloring  matters  designed  to  impart  some  favorite 
color  or  gloss  to  the  leaf.  Some  grocers  give  what  they  call  "a  bloom"  to  green 
teas  by  shaking  them  up  with  a  little  calcined  magnesia,  or  finely  powdered 
French  chalk;  black  teas  are  faced  with  finely  powdered  black  lead. 

Many  of  these  substances  can  be  detected  by  simply  stirring  the  tea  in  a  little 
cold  water,  when  they  will  become  detached  and  either  make  the  water  turbid  or 
sink  to  the  bottom.  An  inferior  article,  dyed  with  sulphate  of  iron,  is  often  sold 
for  pure  green  tea;  to  test  it,  make  an  infusion  and  put  in  a  bit  of  gall-nut;  if 
pure,  the  color  will  not  change,  but  if  sulphate  of  iron  is  present  it  will  turn  a 
deep  black.  To  test  for  the  presence  of  the  other  leaves  mentioned  above,  steep 
a  little  tea,  and  drop  in  1%  grains  of  sulphate  of  copper  or  sulphate  of  iron;  if  a 
genuine  green  tea  it  will  then  present  a  fine  blue  tint  when  exposed  to  a  good 
light;  if  a  genuine  black  tea,  it  will  turn  a  dark  blue,  almost  black;  if  adulterated, 
yellow,  blue,  and  green  colors  will  appear.    Tea  when  fresh  gathered  is  some- 

(402) 


THE  ADULTERATION  OF  FOOD.  403 

times  dyed  with  Japan  earth,  giving  it  the  color  of  black  tea;  to  test  for  this,  steep 
a  little  and  add  a  little  sulphate  of  iron  (copperas);  if  not  dyed  it  will  turn  nearly 
a  blue  black;  if  dyed  it  will  be  a  light  blue.  Also  when  milk  is  added,  instead  of 
turning  a  blackish  brown  it  takes  a  reddish  hue.  In  cheap  teas  there  is  often  a 
considerable  proportion  of  mineral  matter,  i.  e.  added  dirt.  It  can  be  detected 
by  chewing  a  small  quantity  of  the  leaf,  when  dirt  will  be  felt  in  the  mouth. 
The  best  teas  sometimes  have  inferior  varieties  mixed  in  with  them,  and  the 
mixture  is  then  sold  as  the  best  quality.  The  adulterations  of  teas  are  not,  as  a 
rule,  detrimental  to  the  health. 

Coffee. — The  readiest  safeguard  is  to  buy  only  the  green  berries,  and  roast  and 
grind  them  at  home;  they  are  less  commonly  adulterated  than  the  ground  coffee, 
but  a  machine  has  been  made  to  press  flour,  chicory,  etc.,  into  the  form  of  coffee 
berries,  so  that  even  this  precaution  is  not  an  absolute  protection.  Ground  cof- 
fee is  almost  universally  adulterated  with  chicory,  etc.,  and  the  chicory  is  itself 
often  largely  mixed  with  various  rubbish,  which,  by  roasting,  gives  a  brown  color 
to  water.  The  presence  of  adulterants  may  be  readily  detected  in  roasted  coffee 
as  follows:  Place  a  spoonful  of  the  roasted  berry  gently  on  the  surface  of  a  glass 
of  water;  if  pure,  it  will  float  some  time,  and  scarcely  color  it;  if  adulterated  it 
will  rapidly  absorb  the  water  and  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  glass,  giving  a  red- 
dish brown  tint  as  it  falls.  Or,  shake  a  spoonful  of  coffee  with  a  wine  glass  of 
cold  water,  and  then  place  the  glass  on  the  table;  if  pure,  the  coffee  will  rise  to 
the  surface  and  scarcely  color  the  water:  if  not,  it  will  sink  to  the  bottom  and 
tinge  the  water  red.  To  test  ground  coffee  throw  a  little  on  cold  water;  coffee 
will  float,  while  cereals  if  present  will  sink;  chicory,  if  present,  will  quickly  color 
the  water,  while  coffee  will  not.  Most  or  the  adulterations  of  coffee  are  not  dele- 
terious. 

Cocoa. — This  is  never  sold  in  the  pure  state,  and  no  2  preparations  are  alike. 
The  only  safe  way  is  to  buy  that  which  is  put  up  in  packages  bearing  the  name 
of  some  well-known  maker  whose  preparations  are  wholesome  and  adapted  to 
the  demands  of  the  palate. 

Baking  Powders. — The  principal  adulterations  to  look  out  for  are  alum  and 
ammonia.  Alum  is  injurious  to  the  health.  "It  unites  with  the  phosphates  in 
the  bread,  rendering  them  insoluble,  and  preventing  their  absorption  and  diges- 
tion," thus  diminishing  the  nutritive  value  of  the  bread.  Asa  test  for  alum,  make 
a  fresh  decoction  of  logwood,  dissolve  a  little  of  the  baking  powder  in  it,  and  add 
a  little  acetic  acid;  if  it  turns  bluish  or  purplish  red,  there  is  more  or  less  alum, 
according  to  the  color;  if  it  is  yellow  there  is  no  alum.  To  test  for  ammonia, 
make  a  strong  solution  of  the  baking  powder  in  water,  add  a  little  piece  of  potas- 
sium hydrate,  and  heat  till  it  steams;  if  ammonia  is  present  the  steam  will  turn 
red  litmus  paper  blue.  A  certain  amount  of  starch  is  needed  in  baking  powders 
to  keep  them  dry,  but  they  are  sometimes  loaded  with  an  excessive  amount,  and  it 
becomes  an  adulteration,  though  not  injurious.  On  dissolving  the  baking  powder 
in  water  if  the  starch  is  excessive  it  may  form  a  paste.  It  may  be  said  without 
hesitation  that  all  of  the  "cheap"  baking  powders  are  adulterated. 

Cream  of  Tartar. — The  most  common  adulteration  is  with  terra  alba  or  gyp- 
sum, the  amount  introduced  varying  from  5%  to  75$.  To  test,  take  %  teaspoouful 
and  pour  on  1  cup  of  hot  water;  good  cream  of  tartar  will  almost  immediately 
dissolve,  and  the  water  will  be  almost  transparent,  but  terra  alba  or  gypsum  is 
insoluble  in  hot  water. 

Pickles. — The  common  adulterations  of  pickles  are  the  use  of  alum,  and  color- 


404  THE  ADULTERATION  OP  FOOD. 

ing  them  highly  with  copper.  The  presence  of  copper,  even  in  very  small 
quantities,  may  be  easily  and  quickly  detected  by  putting  a  piece  of  bright  iron 
or  steel,  like  a  knife  blade  or  knitting  needle,  into  the  jar  of  pickles  for  a  short 
time,  when,  if  copper  is  present,  it  will  coat  the  metal.  Another  evil  in  cheap 
pickles  is  the  use  of  adulterated  vinegar. 

Vinegar. — This  is  adulterated  with  burnt  sugar  to  give  it  color,  and  with  sul- 
phuric and  other  acids,  generally  sulphuric,  that  being  one  of  the  cheapest.  To 
test  for  the  latter,  put  a  few  drops  of  barium  chloride  in  some  of  the  vinegar;  it 
should  turn  a  little  cloudy,  but  if  there  is  a  marked  precipitate  too  much  sul- 
phuric acid  is  present.  A  further  risk  in  vinegar  containing  sulphuric  acid  is 
that  the  acid  has  been  made  from  pyrites  and  is  contaminated  with  arsenic. 

Pepper. — Pepper  corns  may  readily  be  judged  by  tasting;  they  cannot  easily 
be  replaced  by  other  seeds,  but  may  have  been  damaged  by  sea  water  and  retain 
but  little  pungency.  Ground  pepper  is  often  adulterated  with  mustard  husks, 
roast  ship-bread  and  Indian  meal.  Their  presence  may  be  detected  by  the  micro- 
scope, but  there  is  no  simpler  test  adapted  to  the  housewife's  use.  These  adul- 
terations are  not  injurious  to  the  health,  but  they  reduce  the  strength  of  the 
pepper.    The  pure  article  is  rarely  found  in  the  market  in  the  ground  state. 

Cayenne  Pepper. — This  is  sometimes  adulterated  with  red  lead,  ver million, 
red  ochre,  brick  dust,  turmeric,  etc.  Pure  cayenne  pepper  when  burnt,  leaves  a 
very  small  quantity  of  white  ash;  if  a  red-colored  ash  remains  it  shows  the  pres- 
ence of  red  ochre,  brick  dust,  or  other  earthy  coloring  matter;  if  a  dark-colored 
powder,  or  a  small  metallic  globule  is  left  behind,  red  lead  has  been  introduced. 
The  poisonous  adulterations  are  not  very  common  in  this  country,  however, 
though  English  writers  speak  of  them,  and  flour,  etc.,  is  added  less  commonly 
than  in  black  pepper.  A  very  gQod  cayenne  pepper  can  be  made  by  grinding  the 
pods  of  the  red  peppers  which  are  so  frequently  cultivated  for  pickles. 

Sugar. — The  inferior  kinds  are  of  ten  adulterated  with  rice  flour,  gum,  etc. 
Mites  are  common  in  moist  sugar,  but  less  so  in  crystallized;  if  a  little  is  dropped 
in  perfectly  pure  water  the  mites  will  float  and  the  sugar  will  sink;  the  sugar 
will  soon  dissolve,  and  if  there  is  any  sediment  it  may  safely  be  taken  for  sand  or 
other  adulterant.  The  hard  and  white  or  coarse  granulated  are  the  best  to  buy, 
as  they  are  purer  and  less  commonly  adulterated  than  the  fine  powdered  and 
moist  sugars.  The  most  common  adulteration  at  present,  however,  is  the  mixture 
of  glucose  with  sugar.  This  reduces  the  sweetening  power  of  the  sugar,  but  it  is 
not  at  all  injurious  to  the  health,  glucose  being  itself  a  form  of  sugar.  It  is  dif- 
ficult to  detect  its  presence  in  brown  sugar,  although  it  can  be  detected  in  white 
sugar  by  experts.  If  a  mixed  sugar  is  shaken  in  cold  water,  the  cane  sugar  will 
dissolve  first,  and  the  glucose,  being  less  soluble,  will  remain  for  some  time  undis- 
solved. Pulverized  sugar  is  sometimes  adulterated  with  starch,  terra  alba,  or 
chalk.  To  test  it,  put  a  teaspoonf ul  in  a  glass  of  pure  water;  if  a  sediment  is 
deposited,  or  the  water  becomes  milky,  the  sugar  is  adulterated. 

Canned  Goods. — Recent  tests  of  these  goods  show  them  to  be  quite  generally 
adulterated.  They  are  often  colored  with  salts  of  copper;  its  presence  may  be 
detected  as  explained  for  pickles.  Lead  and  zinc  from  the  solder  and  tin  can, 
often  taints  the  contents  to  a  dangerous  extent.  In  buying  canned  goods  the  cans 
should  be  examined  and  only  those  purchased  which  are  concave  in  the  heads; 
this  shows  that  they  were  hot  when  sealed.  If  the  heads  are  convex  it  shows  that 
decomposition  has  begun  in  the  can,  and  gas  is  being  generated.  Also  press  up 
the  bottom  of  the  canj  it  will  be  solid  if  the  goods  are  sound;  if  decomposition 


THE  ADULTERATION  OP  FOOD.  405 

has  begun  it  will  rattle  like  the  bottom  of  an  oil  can.  Observing  these  rules  may 
save  some  of  our  readers  or  their  families  from  being  sickened  from  canned  goods. 
Salicylic  acid  and  sulphites  are  often  added  for  their  antiseptic  properties.  If 
not  positively  injurious  their  use  is  objectionable,  although  not  easily  detected 
by  the  average  buyer. 

Butter. — Cheap  butters  consist  largely  of  the  admixture  of  other  animal  fats. 
Analysis  of  suspected  butter  can  hardly  be  undertaken  by  the  ordinary  housewife, 
but  the  presence  of  butterine  is  probable  if  the  butter  breaks  in  a  crumbly  man- 
ner and  loses  its  color  on  being  kept  melted  for  a  short  time  at  the  temperature  of 
boiling  water  (212°  F.). 

A  preparation  called  "black  pepsin"  and  some  other  nostrums  have  been  sold  for 
increasing  the  amount  of  butter  produced  from  a  given  quantity  of  milk.  Their 
effect  is  to  combine  or  emulsify  the  butter  fat,  casein,  and  milk  sugar  or  lactose, 
together  with  a  large  percentage  of  water.  The  compound  thus  produced  is  not 
pure  butter,  and  will  not  keep  as  well,  but  its  use  is  not  deleterious  at  all.  To 
detect  it,  put  some  of  the  suspected,  and  an  equal  amount  of  genuine  butter,  in  2 
different  test  tubes  or  glasses,  and  melt  both  with  gentle  heat.  In  genuine  butter 
only  a  little  water  and  curd  will  settle  at  the  bottom  of  the  glass,  while  in  one  of 
these  compounds  nearly  %  the  whole  mass  will  appear  at  the  bottom  as  water,  curd, 
etc.  So  large  a  percentage  is  water  that  it  is  of  course  much  less  nutritious  than 
genuine  butter.  From  8%  to  15  %  of  water  appears  in  genuine  butter,  while  from 
30$  to  50$  is  water  in  these  compounds. 

Milk. — Adulteration  of  this  consists  chiefly  in  adding  water  to  skim  milk,  and 
in  mixing  skim  milk  with  that  sold  as  new.  Analysis  is  possible  only  to  a  skilled 
chemist,  but  a  rough  test  is  possible  at  home.  For  new  milk  a  capital  test  is  to 
pour  a  small  quantity  into  an  ordinary  glass  test  tube,  graduated  from  0  at  the 
top  to  100  at  the  bottom.  On  allowing  the  sample  to  stand  20  hours  cream  will 
form,  and  its  proportion  can  be  read  off  at  a  glance.  A  simple  rude  test  is  to  dip 
a  well-polished  knitting  needle  into  a  deep  vessel  of  milk,  and  quickly  withdraw  it 
in  an  upright  position.  If  the  milk  is  pure  a  drop  will  hang  to  the  needle,  but  the 
least  addition  of  water  will  prevent  the  adhesion  of  the  drop.  Herr  Szilasi  pro- 
poses a  new  test.  Put  20  drops  of  sulphate  of  diphenylamine  in  a  small  porcelain 
vessel,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  the  milk  to  be  tested.  If  even  5$  of  average  well 
water  is  present  a  blue  tinge  will  soon  distinctly  appear.  The  test  depends  on 
the  fact  that  nearly  all  well  water  contains  some  nitrate,  which  will  cause  a  blue 
tinge  in  sulphate  of  diphenylamine;  if  adulterated  with  perfectly  pure  water  this 
test  would  be  valueless,  but  that  is  rarely  done.  Sulphate  of  diphenylamine  is 
cheap  and  easily  obtained  of  druggists.  Dextrin  is  occasionally  added  to  milk. 
To  detect  it  add  a  little  solution  of  iodine;  if  the  least  dextrin  is  present  the 
milk  will  be  tinged  red. 

Exaggerated  statements  are  sometimes  made  about  the  addition  of  chalk, 
gypsum,  gum  arabic,  etc.,  to  milk.  This  is  rarely  done,  and  as  these  substances 
are  insoluble  and  soon  settle,  it  would  be  a  stupid  customer  who  did  not  soon 
detect  their  presence. 

As  a  precaution  against  diseased  millc  it  is  advisable  to  heat  all  milk  to  160°  to 
175°  F.,  keeping  it  at  that  heat  for  about  20  minutes  before  being  used,  as 
that  is  fatal  to  all  disease  germs,  and  that  is  better  than  boiling  it,  as  boiled  milk 
is  not  so  digestible  or  palatable  as  fresh  milk.  The  public  health  is  really  more 
endangered  by  milk  from  diseased  or  improperly  fed  cows  than  by  anything 
added  to  it,  unless  it  is  water  from  a  foul  well, 


406  THE  ADULTERATION  OF  FOOD. 

Lard. — This  is  occasionally  adulterated  with  alum  and  lime  water  to  im- 
prove its  color  and  add  to  its  weight,  and  frequently  with  stearine  and  cotton- 
seed oil.  The  latter  is  a  perfectly  healthful  food,  and  for  some  cooking  purposes 
is  better  than  lard,  but  these  mixed  products  should  be  sold  for  just  what  they 
are,  and  not  palmed  off  as  pure  lard.  The  methods  of  analysis  are  not  adapted 
to  the  housewife's  use. 

Sausage. — The  principal  adulterations  in  this  are  a  red  coloring  matter 
(fuchsin)  added  to  color  up  the  poorer  meat;  meal,  used  to  give  it  more  bulk  and 
so  add  to  the  profit;  and  borax  and  salicylic  acid,  used  to  check  decomposition. 
The  tests  are  not  adapted  for  domestic  use. 

Honey. — This  is  adulterated  with  glucose  and  cane  sugar.  It  is  hard  to  get 
it  pure.  To  test  the  comb,  apply  a  little  sulphuric  acid;  that  will  turn  beeswax 
black,  but  will  not  affect  paraffine  with  which  the  artificial  combs  are  made. 
There  will  be  some  pollen  grains  in  pure  honey,  and  none  in  artificial. 

Confectionery. — This  is  adulterated  with  aniline  dyes,  chrome  yellow,  fusel 
oil,  tartaric  acid,  arsenic,  terra  alba  (white  earth)  and  glucose,  but  it  is  not  so 
extensively  adulterated  as  many  other  articles,  or  as  many  people  imagine. 

Other  Adulterations. — Among  the  other  articles  commonly  adulterated  are 
the  following:  Arrowroot,  with  other  starches.  Sago,  with  potato  starch. 
Horse-radish,  with  turnips.  Isinglass,  with  gelatine.  Cloves,  with  arrowroot. 
Ginger,  with  turmeric,  mustard  and  cayenne  pepper.  Cinnamon,  with  spent  bark. 
Pimento,  with  ship-bread.  Mustard,  with  yellow  lake,  flour,  turmeric,  and 
cayenne  pepper  (rarely  found  pure).  The  most  practical  way  to  obtain  pure 
spices  is  to  buy  them  in  the  unground  state — it  is  almost  the  only  way  with 
some  of  them. 

Conclusion. — Many  of  the  above  adulterations  are  not  injurious  to  the  health, 
but  they  all  reduce  the  strength  and  value  of  the  article  adulterated,  and  are  a 
fraud  on  the  purchaser.  The  presence  of  these  adulterations  is  easily  detected 
by  the  scientific  analyst,  but  not  readily  by  the  average  housewife.  The  extent 
to  which  adulterations  are  carried  is  little  understood  by  the  mass  of  the  people. 
An  official  test  of  vinegars  made  in  the  state  of  New  Jersey,  showed  that,  out  of 
12  samples  analyzed,  11  were  adulterated,  and  only  1  was  pure.  Similar  tests  of 
spices  and  other  articles  has  revealed  that  from  25$  to  80  or  90$  of  the  samples 
examined  were  adulterated.  Stringent  laws  are  needed  to  check  this  evil,  as 
individual  action  cannot  cope  with  it. 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CURfNG  MEATS. 


It  is  very  desirable  for  every  housekeeper  to  know  the  location  and  names  of 
the  different  parts  of  meat,  and  many  families  occasionally  cut  up  and  cure  ani- 
mals for  their  own  use,  and  so  in  this  chapter  we  will  give  such  information  on 
these  subjects  as  will  meet  the  requirements  of  our  readers.  Before  corning  meat 
hang  it  1  or  2  days  after  it  is  killed. 

BEEF. 

1.  Bump.—  Used  for  corned  beef,  stews  and 
steaks. 

2.  Aitchbone.  —  Used  for  stews  and  pot- 
roasts. 

3.  Roundor  Buttock.— Used  for  stews,  boil- 
ing, pot-roasts,  or  steaks.  The  lower  part  is 
good  to  work  up  in  Hamburg  steaks  and  curry 
of  beef. 

4.  Hock-— Best  for  soup  or  stews. 
5-  Shin  or  Leg.— Used  for  soup,  stewing  or 

hash. 

6.  Shin.— Used  for  soup  or  cheap  stews. 

7.  Clod.— Used  for  soup,  stock,  stews,  sau- 
sages, .etc. 

8.  Neck  or  Sticking  Piece.— -Used  same  as  clod. 
9-  Shoulder  Clod.— Used  for  stews,  pot-roasts,  hashes,  etc. 

10.  Brisket.— Used  for  soups,  stews,  corned  and  spiced  beef. 

11.  Thin  Flank.—  Used  for  stews  or  for  corned  beef  or  dried  beef. 

12.  Thick  Flank.— Suitable  for  corned  beef,  boiling,  stews,  or 
pressed  beef. 

13'  Sirloin.— Used  for  sirloin  or  porterhouse  steaks  or  choice  roasts. 
The  tip  is  an  extra  fine  roast,  and  should  have  3  but  is  sometimes 
cut  up  with  2  ribs. 

14.  Fore  Rib.—Tiie  5  ribs  nearest  the  sirloin  are  the  best;  it  makes 
fine  roasting  pieces,  or  steaks;  the  bones  are  often  taken  out  and 
the  meat  rolled,  when  the  bones  can  be  used  for  soup. 

15.  Middle  Ribs — Usually  roasted. 

16.  Chuck  Ribs.— Used  for  stews  and  steaks  and  roasts  of  second 
quality. 

17.  Cheek.— Used  for  soups  or  stews. 
Other  parts  used  are:  (18)  The  Brains   which,   when    well 

soaked,  can  be  stewed,  fried,  scalloped  or  made  into  cro- 
quettes. (19)  Ox-tail,  used  for  soups  and  stews.  (20)  Cow- 
heels,  which  make  as  good  jelly  as  calves"  feet,  and  what  remains  of  them 
is  good  eating;  they  also  make  good  soup.  (21)  The  Heart,  which  can  be  stuffed, 
braised  or  roasted,  but  although  economical  it  is  rather  indigestible.  (22)  The 
Liver. — It  can  be  boiled  or  fried  and  is  very  nutritious  and  cheap.  The  food 
known  as  "faggots"  is  made  of  the  liver  and  lights  of  sheep  and  bullocks  mixed 
with  some  fat.  (23)  The  Kidneys,  used  for  stewing,  pies  or  puddings.  They  are 
cheaper  than  kidneys  of  young  animals,  but  difficult  of  digestion.  They  need 
light  cooking,  as  they  are  apt  to  dry  up  when  exposed  to  a  high  temperature. 
(24)  The  Tongue  is  boiled  and  braised,  either  fresh  or  salted.  It  can  be  bought 
either  way.  (25)  Tripe. — This  is  easily  digested,  but  is  not  very  nutritious.  (26) 
Sweetbreads. — This  in  full-grown  animals  consists  of  the  pancreas,  and  is  not 
equal  to  the  thymus  gland  of  the  calf.  (27)  Suet. — That  which  surrounds  the  kid- 
neys is  the  firmest  and  best.  (28)  The  Spleen  or  Milt  of  bullock,  sheep  and  pig 
is  sold  for  food.  It  is  generally  stuffed  and  roasted,  or  stewed  or  boiled  for  stock. 
(29)  The  Fillet  lies  under  the  rump  and  loin  and  weighs  6  or  8  lbs. 
The  Lights  are  the  lungs.     The  Pluck  is  the  lights,  liver  and  heart. 

(407) 


408 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS. 


It  is  well  to  remember  that  any  part  of  an  animal  which  is  much  exercised  is 
tougher  than  parts  which  are  exercised  little  or  none. 

VEAL. 

l  1.  Head— Used  for  soup  or  jelly.    Calves'  brains  are 
served  as  an  entree. 

2.  JVccM- -Used  for  stews  or  soup. 

3.  Knuckle Best    stewed    or   boiled;    occasionally 

roasted. 

4.  Feet Used  for  jelly  making;  occasionally  stewed 

or  fried. 

5.  Loin—  Prime  roasting  joint  or  for  cutlets. 

6.  Chump  end  of  Loin—  Used  for  roasting  or  cutlets. 

7.  Fillet—  The  most  economical  roasting  joint,  and 
furnishes  the  best  cutlets. 

8.  Knuckle — This  is  cheap  and  is  best  used  for  stew- 
ing, boiling  or  for  stock. 

9.  Flank — Used  for  stews. 

10.  Breast.—  Best  stewed;  sometimes  roasted.  This  part  furnishes  veal  tendons  served 
as  an  entree. 

11  and  12.  Shoulder  or  Bladebone.—JJsed  sometimes  for  roasting  and  sometimes  for 
cutlets. 

13.  Bib.— Used  for  small  roasting  joint  or  for  chops- 

14.  Sweetbreads.— These  are  found  above  Fig.  14  and  consist  of  the  thymus  gland  found 
on  both  sides  of  the  windpipe.  The  stomach  sweetbreads  are  located  further  along  near 
the  stomach. 

Other  parts  used  are:  (15)  The  Heart,  which  is  more  digestible  than  bullock's 
heart  and  is  liked  by  many.  (16)  Liver. — This  is  very  lean,  and  is  usually  cooked 
with  some  of  the  inside  fat  or  with  bacon.  (17)  Kidney. — This  is  more  delicate 
than  beef  kidney,  and  is  preferred  to  it.  (18)  Suet.— Veal  suet  is  more  delicate 
than  beef  suet,  and  may  advantageously  be  substituted  for  that  in  puddings  and 
for  all  purposes. 

MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

1.  Loin,  chump  end.— Used  for  roasting  or  chops; 
chump  chops  are  cut  nearest  the  tail  where  there  is 
the  most  bone. 

2.  Loin.— The  best  roasting  joint. 

3.  Back.— Use  for  roasting,  boiling,  or  for  mutton 
cutlets. 

4.  Shoulder.—  Used  for  roasting  or  for  stuffing;  is 
fatter  and  not  so  economical  as  the  leg,  but  is  preferred 
by  many. 

5.  Neck.— Used  for  stews. 

6.  Head.— This  makes  excellent  broth  but  is  not  much 
used  by  the  well-to-do  classes. 

7.  Shank.— Suitable  for  stews  or  soups. 

8.  Feet.— Used  for  jelly. 

9.  Hock.— Suitable  for  stews  or  soup. 

10.  Leg.— Used  for  roasts  or  chops;  mutton  steaks  are  cut  from  the  leg;  usually  considered 
the  most  economical  piece  to  buy. 

11.  Breast.— Suitable  for  stewing  or  boiling;  often  economical,  but  too  fat  for  some. 

Other  parts  are:  (12)  The  Chine,  which  consists  of  the  2  loins  unseparated 
from  the  backbone.  (13)  The  Saddle,  which  consists  of  2  loins  and  2  legs 
undivided.  (14)  The  Heart,  which  is  best  roasted.  (15)  The  Liver,  which  can 
be  fried  or  made  into  soup.  (16)  The  Kidney,  which  can  be  broiled  or  stewed 
(often  sold  with  the  loin).  (17)  Mutton  Suet. — This  is  not  so  good  as  beef  suet  for 
puddings,  etc. 

Lamb. — When  very  large  it  is  cut  into  the  same  joints  as  mutton;  when  small 
it  is  simply  cut  into  quarters.  Lamb's  Siueetbreads  are  considered  a  delicacy. 
Lamb's  Fry  consists  of  the  liver,  the  sweetbreads,  and  some  of  the  inside  fat  or 
leaf  of  the  heart.    Lamb's  Kidney,  Head  and  Feet  are  also  eaten.    Lamb's 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS. 


409 


kidneys  cooked  a  little  while  are  tender,  but  long  cooking  toughens  them. 
Many  people  prefer  the  forequarter,  but  the  leg  is  the  most  economical  part  to 
buy. 

PORK. 

1.  Feet.— Used  for  pickle  or  jelly;  occasion- 
ally boiled,  or  boned  and  stuffed. 

2.  Ham  or  Leg.— Used  for  roasting,  boiling 
or  frying;  the  most  economical  piece  to  buy. 

3.  Bacon.— Generally  cured. 

4.  Hock.— Best  stewed  or  boiled. 

5.  Shoulder.— Smoke,  or  cut  steaks  from 
this. 

6.  Lower  Neck.— Used  for  sausages  or  lard. 

7.  Head.— Can  be  boiled  or  made  into 
brawn;  the  cheek  can  be  made  into  smoked 
jowls,  and  the  snout  boiled. 

8.  Shoulder  Top.  —Used  for  spare-ribs,  steak  or  sausage. 

9.  Fore  Loin.— Usually  roasted. 

10.  Loin.— The  best  roasting  joint;  chops  are  also  cut  from  it. 
Other  parts  are:  (11)  Pig's  Fry. — This  consisting  of  the 

liver,  sweetbreads  and  some  of  the  inside  fat.  (12)  The  Harslet, 
consisting  of  the  liver,  lights  and  heart.  (13)  The  Chine;  this 
is  the  2  loins  unseparated  from  the  backbone.  (14)  Lard;  this 
has  a  lower  melting  point  than  beef  or  mutton  fat,  and  the 
lower  the  heat  at  which  it  is  melted  the  smoother  it  is. 

To  Cut  up  Pork. — Have  the  hog  laid  on  his  back  on  a  clean 
bench;  cut  off  the  head  close  to  the  base.  If  large  there  will 
come  off  a  considerable  collar  between  the  head  and  shoulders, 
which,  pickled  or  dried,  is  useful  for  cooking  with  vegetables. 
Separate  the  jowl  from  the  face  at  the  natural  joint;  open  the 
skull  lengthwise  and  take  out  the  brains— esteemed  a  luxury. 
Then,  with  a  sharp  knife,  remove  the  backbone  the  whole 
length;  then  the  long  strip  of  fat  underlying  it,  leaving  about 
1  inch  of  fat  covering  the  spinal  column.  Take  out  the  leaf ' 
lard,  and  the  tenderloin — a  fishy  shaped  piece  of  flesh.  Now 
cut  out  the  middle  or  sides,  leaving  the  shoulders  square- 
shaped  and  the  hams  pointed  or  rounded  as  desired.  The 
spare-ribs  are  usually  wholly  removed  from  the  sides,  with  but  little  meat  adher- 
ing. It  is  the  sides  of  young  hogs,  cured  as  hams,  that  bear  the  name  of  break- 
fast bacon.  The  sausage  meat  comes  chiefly  in  strips  from  the  backbone,  part 
of  which  may  also  be  used  as  steak.  The  lean  trimmings  from  about  the  joints 
are  used  for  sausage.  The  chines  are  smoked  with  the  jowls  and  used  in  late 
winter  and  spring.  The  feet  should  be  heated  over  the  fire  until  the  hoofs  can 
be  easily  removed;  then  scrape  clean,  and,  after  being  a  few  minutes  in  hot 
water,  scrape  and  wash  carefully,  and  they  will  be  ready  to  cook.  The  fat  from 
the  intestines  is  all  removed;  use  that  which  sticks  to  the  larger  intestines  for 
soap  grease.  Sometimes  the  smaller  intestines  are  used  for  sausage  cases.  Try 
up  all  flabby  pieces  for  lard.  The  sweetbreads,  liver,  kidneys  and  heart  are  used 
for  boiling.  When  meat  is  to  be  pickled  it  should  be  dusted  lightly  with  salt- 
petre, sprinkled  with  salt,  and  allowed  to  drain  24  hours;  then  plunge  it  into 
pickle,  and  keep  it  under  weight.  It  is  good  policy  to  pickle  a  portion  of  the 
sides. 

Pork  is  cured  for  the  market  in  different  ways;  the  fat  sides  are  taken  from  the  ribs, 
cut,  in  pieces,  packed  in  barrels  with  layers  of  salt,  and  then  covered  with  strong  brine,  in 
which  it  is  kept  until  retailed  frorn  the  barrels.  Sometimes  the  sides  are  well  cured  in  the 
brine,  then  hung,  dried,  and  afterwards  packed  in  boxes  with  dry  salt.  At  the  South  this 
is  called  bacon,  and  smoked  bacon  if  it  has  been  hung  in  a  smoke-house.  Pig  meat  is  treated 
in  the  latter  way,  and  makes  a  delicate  meat  called  breakfast  bacon.  The  hams,  shoulders 
and  cheeks  of  pork  are  pickled  in  brine  for  a  certain  length  of  time,  then  are  taken  from 
the  pickle,  and  either  packed  dry  in  salt,  or  smoked  and  packed  in  a  manner  to  best  pi'e- 
serve  them.  One  of  the  best  ways  of  keeping  hams  in  the  country,  is  to  dry  the  hams  well 
in  a  smoke-house,  then  rub  them  well  with  fine  salt  and  sugar,  roll  up  well  in  newspapers, 
and  pack  in  barrels,  filling  as  you  go  with  clean  wood  ashes. 

25 


410 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS. 


VENISON. 

1.  Loin  or  Haunch.— Used  for  steaks,  roasts  and  stews; 
also  for  making  smoked  venison;  the  ribs  can  be  used  for 
soup. 

2.  Fore  Loin.— Good  for  roasts  or  steaks. 

3.  Shoulder.— Usually  roasted,  or  boned,  stuffed,  and  then 
roasted  or  baked. 

4.  Neck  or  Scrag— Used,  for  soup  or  stews. 

5.  Breast—  Used  for  stews  or  baking. 
The  best  and  sweetest  venison  comes  from  a  female 

deer  about  4  years  old;  doe  venison  (in  season  from 

October  to  December)  is  not  equal  to  buck  venison — 

(in  season  from  June  to  October  1st).  The  haunch  is 

the  prime  joint,  though  the   shoulders  are    much 

esteemed.    Venison  requires  more  care  in  the  killing, 

preserving  and  dressing  than  any  other  meat.    As 

soon  as  it  is  cut  up  it  should  be  taken  into  a  cool,  dry 

larder,  dried  with  a  cloth,  and  hung  in  an  airy  place,    if  it  is  to  be  kept  some 

time,  dust  dry  ginger  and  pepper  over  it  to  keep  off  flies;  keep  it  as  long  as  it  is 

possible  to  preserve  it  untainted.     If  it  should  inadvertently  become  musty,  first 

wash  it  with  lukewarm  vinegar  and  water,  and  afterwards  with  lukewarm  milk 

and  water,  and  then  dry  it  perfectly  with  a  cloth  and  flour  it. 

Pickle  for  Meat. — Make  8  gallons  of  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg,  add 
2  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  and  1  quart  of  molasses,  and  4  oz.  saltpetre;  boil  and  skim 
clean,  and  pour  cold  on  the  meat.  Meat  intended  for  smoking  should  remain  in 
pickle  about  4  weeks.  This  pickle  can  be  boiled  over,  and  with  a  fresh  cup  of 
sugar  and  salt,  used  all  summer.  Some  persons  use  as  much  soda  as  saltpetre;  it 
will  correct  acidity,  but  we  think  impairs  the  meat. 

Note.— In  salting  or  pickling  beef  or  pork  for  family  consumption,  it  not  being  gener- 
ally required  to  be  kept  for  a  great  length  of  time,  less  salt  and  more  of  other  matters  better 
adapted  to  retain  the  mellowness  in  meat  maybe  used  than  could  be  adopted  by  those. who 
cure  large  quantities  for  shipment.  Sugar  is  well  known  to  possess  the  preserving  princi- 
ple to  a  large  degree  without  the  pungency  and  stringency  of  salt.  It  acts  without  con- 
tracting the  fibers  of  the  meat,  and  therefore  does  not  impair  its  mellowness,  but  when  used 
in  sufficiently  large  quantities  for  preservative  effect  it  imparts  a  flavor  not  agreeable  to 
many  people.  It  may  be  used  with  salt,  however,  to  great  advantage  in  about  the  propor- 
tion of  1  part  by  weight  of  sugar  to  4  parts  of  the  mixture,  and  now  that  sugar  is  so  much 
cheaper  than  formerly  it  may  be  more  commonly  used. 

Meat  Pickle. — Take  of  moist  sugar,  2  lbs.,  common  salt,  4  lbs.,  saltpetre,  J^  lb., 
fresh  ground  allspice,  2  oz.;  water  6  to  8  quarts.  Dissolve.  Used  to  pickle  meat, 
to  which  it  imparts  a  fine  red  color,  and  a  superior  flavor. 

To  Cure  Meat. — To  1  gallon  of  water  add  1%  lbs.  salt,  %  lb.  of  sugar,  %  oz- 
saltpetre,  %  oz-  potash.  Make  any  quantity  desired,  preserving  these  proportions. 
Boil  these  together  until  all  the  dirt  from  the  sugar  rises  to  the  top  and  is 
skimmed  off;  then  throw  it  into  a  tub  to  cool,  and  when  cold  pour  it  over  the 
beef  and  pork  to  remain  the  usual  time,  say  4  or  5  weeks.  The  meat  must  be  well 
covered  with  pickle  and  should  not  be  put  down  for  at  least  2  days  after  killing, 
during  which  time  it  should  be  slightly  sprinkled  with  saltpetre,  which  removes 
all  surface  blood,  etc.,  leaving  the  meat  fresh  and  clean.  If  this  recipe  is  tried  it 
will  never  be  abandoned — nothing  surpasses  it. 

Curing  Beef  and  Ham. — For  beef  use  6  lbs.  salt,  1  oz.  saltpetre,  4  oz.  New 
Orleans  sugar,  %  gallon  sorghum  molasses,  3^  gal.  water;  boil  and  skim  the 
mixture;  when  cold,  pour  it  over  the  meat,  and  if  the  latter  is  bloody  pour  off  the 
brine,  scald  it,  and  when  cold  pour  over  the  meat  again.  If  the  meat  is  a  ham  or 
shoulder  to  be  smoked,  it  should  lie  in  the  brine  20  to  30  days,  and  then  be  hung 
up  to  smoke.  Beef  to  be  dried  should  be  treated  the  same  way,  but  corned  beef 
lies  in  the  brine  until  it  is  used  up. 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS.  411 

Hams,  To  Cure. — To  each  green  ham  of  18  lbs.  use  1  dessertspoon  of  saltpetre, 
)4  lb-  of  brown  sugar  applied  to  the  fleshy  side  of  the  ham  and  about  the  hock; 
cover  the  fleshy  side  with  fine  salt  3^  inch  thick,  and  pack  away  in  tubs;  let 
remain  from  3  to  6  weeks,  according  to  size.  Before  smoking,  rub  off  any  salt 
that  may  remain  on  the  ham,  and  cover  well  with  ground  pepper,  particularly 
about  the  bone  and  hock.  Hang  up  and  drain  for  2  days;  smoke  with  green  wood 
for  8  weeks,  or  until  the  rind  assumes  a  light  chestnut  color.  The  pepper  is  an 
effectual  preventive  of  the  fly.     (An  extra  recipe.) 

A  Southern  Rule  for  Curing  Meat. — For  250  lbs.  of  beef  or  hams  and  shoulders, 
use  16  lbs.  salt,  8  gal.  water,  4  oz.  saltpetre,  2  quarts  molasses,  1  tablespoon  soda; 
mix  and  dissolve.  For  salting  beef,  first  cut  it  into  suitable  pieces  and  pack  in  a 
clean  barrel  as  closely  as  can  be  pressed  in  by  the  hand;  put  it  in  even  layers. 
When  all  the  meat  is  packed  place  on  top  4  sticks  crossed,  and  lay  on  them  a 
clean  stone  heavy  enough  to  keep  the  meat  under  the  brine.  Pack  hams  the 
same  way,  and  after  30  days  remove  from  the  brine  and  smoke. 

Westphalian  Hams. — The  famous  Westphalian  hams  are  cured  thus:  First 
rub  with  dry  salt,  and  then  drain  24  hours.  Take  4  quarts  salt,  3  lbs.  brown  sugar, 
1  lb.  saltpetre,  4  oz.  salprunella,  4  oz.  juniper  berries;  bruise,  mix  well,  boil  in 
6  quarts  of  water,  cool  and  skim.  Take  the  hams  from  the  salt,  wipe  dry,  pour 
over  the  pickle,  and  rub  well  into  the  meat.  Then  smoke  a  little  every  day  for 
3  months  until  completely  dry,  when  they  will  keep  sound  and  improve  in  flavor 
for  years.  Hams  shrink  in  smoking  about  10$  in  weight,  while  pickled  or  salted 
pork  gains  about  10$. 

Sugar  Curing  Hams  {English  Recipe). — As  soon  as  the  meat  comes  from  the 
butcher's  hand  rub  it  thoroughly  with  salt;  repeat  this  4  days,  keeping  the  meat 
where  it  can  drain.  The  fourth  day  rub  it  with  saltpetre  and  a  handful  of  salt, 
allowing  1  lb.  of  saltpetre  to  70  lbs.  of  meat.  Now  mix  1  lb.  of  brown  sugar,  and 
1  lb.  of  molasses;  rub  it  over  the  ham  every  day  for  a  fortnight,  and  then  smoke 
with  hickory  chips  or  cobs.  Hams  should  be  hung  highest  in  meat  houses, 
because  there  they  are  less  liable  to  the  attacks  of  insects. 

To  Keep  Cured  Ham, — A  simple  way  is  by  packing  closely  in  a  stone  jar, 
(after  taking  off  the  rind  and  cutting  in  slices)  and  then  exclude  the  air  by  pour- 
ing over  enough  melted  lard  to  cover  them;  they  will  keep  this  way  several 
months.  When  some  is  taken  out  melt  the  lard  and  pour  on  again,  to  protect 
the  balance. 

Pickle  for  Corned  Beef. — (1)  Use  1  gal.  water,  1%  lbs.  salt,  %  lb.  brown  sugar, 
J^  oz.  saltpetre,  %  oz.  potash;  use  same  proportions  for  any  quantity;  boil  all 
together  in  an  iron  kettle,  skim  and  strain;  put  into  the  pickle  tub,  and  when 
cold  put  in  the  meat,  having  the  pickle  cover  it,  and  weighting  it  down  with 
clean  stones.  (2)  For  100  lbs.  of  beef  use  8  lbs.  fine  salt,  4  lbs.  brown  sugar,  4  oz. 
saleratus,  2  oz.  saltpetre,  and  mix  well;  put  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  the 
barrel  and  between  each  layer  of  meat,  removing  the  large  bones.  Put  a  weight 
on  the  top  layer  to  hold  it  down,  and  the  juices  of  the  meat  furnish  all  the  brine 
necessary.  Meat  thus  pickled  is  ready  for  drying  in  6  weeks,  and  does  not 
toughen  in  the  summer. 

To  Corn  Beef  {Pocock  Pickle). — Take  4  gallons  fresh  water,  \%  lbs.  coarse 
brown  sugar,  2  oz.  saltpetre,  7  lbs.  common  salt;  put  all  in  a  boiler,  take  off  the 
scum  as  it  rises,  boil  well,  and  then  let  it  get  cold.  Have  sufficient  to  cover  the 
meat,  lay  a  cloth  over  it,  and  weight  down  the  meat.  The  same  pickle  may  be 
us&d  again  by  re-boiling,  and  adding  a  small  quantity  of  each  ingredient  fresh. 


412  CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS. 

Spiced  Corn  Beef.— Prepare  a  mixture  of  4  cups  molasses;  4  cups  of  salt;  4 
tablespoons  of  saltpetre;  2  tablespoons  cloves;  2  tablespoons  ground  pepper; 
each  day  for  10  days  rub  this  into  the  beef,  turning  the  meat,  and  rubbing  well 
in.    This  is  for  20  lbs.  of  meat.    At  the  end  of  the  10  days  it  can  be  used. 

Hamburgh  Beef. — Take  a  piece  of  meat  from  some  fleshy  part;  scatter  com- 
mon salt  under  and  over  it,  and  let  lie  24  hours  to  void  the  blood;  then  put  into 
a  pickle  made  with  1  gal.  water  that  has  been  boiled,  1  lb.  common  salt,  1%  lbs. 
coarse  sugar,  2  oz.  saltpetre,  %  Pm*  vinegar;  simmer  until  all,  are  melted;  place 
the  meat  in  a  deep  narrow  pan  and  pour  over  the  liquor,  covering  it  completely; 
it  will  be  ready  for  smoking  in  3  weeks;  dry  well  with  a  cloth,  and  rub  pea  meal 
all  over  it,  until  it  has  a  good  coat  on  it.  If  well  smoked  it  will  come  out  a  bright 
yellow,  and  will  keep  any  length  of  time. 

Home-Made  Dried  Beef. — Select  a  nice  round  of  beef — better  from  a  young 
animal — divide  it  into  2  pieces,  following  the  natural  line  of  division  very  care- 
fully, so  as  not  to  make  any  cuts  or  gashes  for  the  fly  to  burrow  in.  Then  for 
50  lbs.  of  the  meat  make  a  mixture  of  2  lbs.  fine  salt,  1  oz.  of  powdered  saltpetre, 
1%  lbs.  brown  sugar.  Rub  this  mixture  well  into  the  meat  every  morning  until 
used  up,  and  at  the  end  of  2  weeks  hang  up  in  a  smoke  house  to  smoke  slightly 
or  just  enough  to  be  tasted.  Excess  of  smoke  is  not  generally  relished.  It  may 
be  left  hanging  in  any  dry  place  away  from  flies.  If  it  molds  a  little  on  the 
outside  that  will  not  hurt. 

Beef,  Scotch  Method  of  Drying. — Take  2  lbs.  salt,  1  oz.  finely  ground  cloves, 
2  oz.  of  ground  pepper,  or  in  these  proportions  for  any  desired  quantity.  After 
cutting  the  meat  into  suitable  pieces,  rub  this  mixture  well  into  it  every  day  for 
5  or  6  days;  then  hang  the  meat  up  to  dry.  This  is  said  to  produce  superior 
dried  beef. 

Tongues,  To  Cure. — (1)  Take  9  lbs.  salt,  8  oz.  sugar,  and  9  oz.  powdered  salt- 
petre. Rub  the  above  ingredients  well  into  the  tongues,  and  keep  them  in  this 
curing  mixture  for  2  months,  turning  them  every  day.  Drain  them  from  the 
pickle,  cover  them  with  brown  paper,  and  have  them  smoked  for  about  3  weeks. 
The  above  quantity  of  brine  is  sufficient  for  12  tongues  of  5  lbs.  each.  (2)  Take 
3^  oz.  saltpetre;  %  oz.  salprunella;  1  lb.  salt;  %  lb.  very  coarse  sugar;  4  bay  leaves, 
1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  and  3  pints  water.  Let  it  boil  for  %  hour,  skim  off  the 
scum,  and  pour  the  liquid  into  a  pickling  dish;  when  it  is  quite  cold  put  the 
tongue  in,  and  turn  it  every  day  for  3  weeks,  if  you  wish  to  cook  it  green,  but  if 
not  leave  it  in  the  pickle  for  a  month.  This  pickle  will  keep  good  for  months  if 
re-boiled  and  skimmed.  Every  tongue  put  in  should  first  be  well  rubbed  with  salt, 
left  to  drain  for  3  days,  and  then  wiped  dry. 

Pickle  for  Tongues  and  Beef. — Use  1  gal.  water,  2  lbs.  common  salt,  4  oz.  salt- 
petre, %  lb.  brown  sugar;  boil  all  well  together.  A  tongue  should  be  pickled  14 
days  before  it  is  considered  well  cured. 

To  Pickle  Pig's  Feet. — Put  them  in  strong  brine,  and  leave  for  1  week;  then 
take  out  and  boil  in  water  to  remove  the  brine;  then  pour  vinegar  over  them,  and 
soak  in  a  pickle  containing  bay  leaves,  allspice  and  mace. 

To  Clean  Beef  Tripe. — Rinse  carefully  in  cold  water  (after  emptying  the  con- 
tents, none  of  which  should  be  allowed  to  touch  the  outside).  Then  sprinkle  on 
lime,  put  it  in  a  tub,  pour  on  hot  water  and  leave  2  hours;  then  try  scraping  it 
with  a  knife— if  the  dark  does  not  come  off  readily,  spread  on  more  lime  and  put 
in  the  tub  another  hour  or  two;  then  scrape,  and  rinse  clean  with  cold  water. 
Put  it  in  salt  water,  enough  to  cover  it,  and  leave  3  days;  change  the  water  each 


CUTTING  UP  AND  CURING  MEATS.  413 

day.  Take  it  out,  cut  in  strips,  and  whiten  by  laying  it  in  buttermilk  for  a  few 
hours;  then  rinse  clean,  and  boil  for  a  few  hours — or  till  it  is  tender  enough  to 
mash  with  the  fingers.    Then  it  is  ready  to  cook  as  desired. 

Rennet,  To  Prepare. — Rennets  should  not  be  saved  from  calves  less  than  a 
week  old;  those  from  3  to  4  weeks  old  make  the  best.  Never  use  a  stomach  of  an 
animal  the  least  out  of  health.  Take  the  rennet  out  immediately  after  the  animal 
is  killed,  turn  inside  out  without  washing,  cure  thoroughly  with  dairy  salt,  dry 
perfectly,  and  keep  in  paper  bags  till  wanted  for  use.  For  use,  soak  in  clean  whey, 
saturated  with  salt,  for  24  hours  before  using,  frequently  squeezing  them  with 
the  hand  to  macerate.  After  being  soaked,  keep  the  liquor  as  cool  as  possible  in 
tightly  covered  vessels  until  used. 

To  Prepare  Bladders  for  Use. — Soak  them  for  24  hours  in  a  basin  of  water  in 
which  a  little  chloride  of  lime  has  been  dissolved;  then  clear  all  extraneous  mat- 
ter from  the  bladders,  wash  them  thoroughly  in  clean  water,  and  hang  them  up 
to  dry. 

Sausages. — Use  the  trimmings  and  other  lean  and  fat  portions  of  pork,  select- 
ing about  twice  as  much  lean  as  fat.  Some  consider  it  an  improvement  to  add 
about  one-sixth  the  weight  of  beef.  Season  to  taste.  Some  use  salt  and  pepper 
alone  (say  1  teaspoon  to  2  lbs.  meat),  and  others  add  sage,  thyme,  mace,  cloves  and 
other  spices.  If  the  meat  is  put  into  muslin  bags  1%  to  3  inches  in  diameter,  and, 
after  being  filled,  are  dipped  into  melted  lard  and  hung  up  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  it 
will  keep  very  satisfactorily. 

Pork  Sausages. — For  these  the  right  proportions  of  fat  and  lean  meat  is  about 
34  fat,  and  for  every  10  lbs.  of  the  minced  sausage  4  oz.  of  salt,  1  oz.  of  pulverized 
black  pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  pulverized  sage  is  nearly  the  right  proportion  of 
seasoning.  Mix  thoroughly,  but  add  no  water.  It  can  be  packed  down  in  stone 
jars,  with  hot  lard  poured  over  it,  to  be  cut  out  in  slices  for  cooking;  put  in  cheese- 
cloth bags  of  the  right  size  to  cut  off  pieces  to  serve,  or  it  can  be  filled  into  the 
small  intestines  of  beef  or  pigs,  and  tied  into  links.  The  intestines  should  be  cut 
into  pieces  about  a  yard  long;  strip  out  the  contents,  turn  them  inside  out  on  a 
stick;  take  them  off  and  wash  thoroughly  in  warm  salted  water;  put  to  soak  over 
night  in  another  salted  water;  the  next  day  thoroughly  scrape  them  on  a  board 
with  a  dull  knife;  then  soak  them  another  night  in  salted  water,  when  they  will 
be  ready  for  use. 

Bologna  Sausages. — Take  3  lbs.  lean  beef,  3  lbs.  lean  pork,  2  lbs.  fat  bacon,  X% 
lbs.  beef  suet;  put  the  lean  meat  into  a  stewpan  of  hot  water,  and  set  it  over  the 
fire  for  %  hour;  then  cut  it  small,  each  sort  by  itself;  shred  the  suet,  bacon  or 
ham,  each  by  itself.  Season  with  pepper,  thyme,  chopped  fine,  and  ground  mace; 
fill  ox-skins  with  it,  tie  them  in  lengths,  and  put  them  in  a  beef  brine  for  10  days; 
then  smoke  them  the  same  as  ham  or  tongue.  Rub  ground  ginger  or  pepper  over 
the  outside  after  they  are  smoked,  and  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  (To  pre- 
pare the  skins,  take  ox  intestines,  cut  them  into  strips  about  6  feet  long,  wash 
them  thoroughly  in  warm  water,  and  then  turn  them  inside  out  and  wash  again; 
scrape  them  with  a  suitable  scraper  designed  for  this  use,  wash  off,  and  put  them 
into  salt  water  to  soak  until  desired  for  use.  Be  very  careful  not  to  tear  the 
skins  while  working  on  them.) 

A  Simple  Way  to  Smoke  Meat. — Take  a  kerosene  or  rain  water  barrel,  and  drive 
nails  around  the  top  on  which  to  hang  the  meat;  fill  an  iron  pan  or  pail  half  full 
of  ashes,  and  build  a  fire  in  it;  set  it  in  the  bottom  of  the  barrel,  place  a  board  on 
top  and  cover  with  a  heavy  cloth  or  blanket  to  keep  out  the  air  and  confine  the 


m  Cutting  up  and  curing  meats. 

smoke.    Those  without  a  smoke  house  can  easily  do  a  little  smoking  in  this  way. 

Lard,  To  Make.— Cut  the  fat  up  into  pieces  about  2  inches  square;  fill  a  vessel, 
holding  about  3  gal.,  with  the  pieces;  put  in  a  pint  of  boiled  lye  made  from  oak 
and  hickory  ashes,  and  strained  before  using;  boil  gently  over  a  slow  fire  until 
the  cracklings  have  turned  brown;  strain  and  set  aside  to  cool.  This  will  give 
more,  whiter,  and  better  lard  than  any  other  process. 

Lard,  To  Bleach.— Apply  a  mixture  of  bichromate  of  potassa  and  muriatic 
acid  in  minute  proportions  to  the  fat. 

Lard,  To  Keep  Sweet. — When  rendering  (melting)  it,  throw  into  each  kettle 
a  handful  of  slippery  elm  bark.  Add  no  salt  at  any  time;  the  jars  in  which  it  is 
kept  must  be  perfectly  cleaned.  This  plan  will  keep  it  sweet  even  in  the  warm- 
est weather. 

Beef  Fat. — This,  if  thoroughly  cooked  in  water  and  the  fat  skimmed  off  as 
it  rises,  is  very  nice.  It  will  remain  soft,  and  is  preferred  to  lard  by  many,  for 
various  uses. 

Tallow,  To  Clarify. — Dissolve  %  lb.  of  alum  in  1  pint  of  water;  add  50  lbs.  of 
tallow  in  a  jacket  kettle  (i.  e.,  a  kettle  set  in  a  larger  one,  and  the  intervening 
space  filled  with  water;  this  prevents  burning  the  tallow);  boil  it  %  of  an  hour 
and  skim.  Then  add  %  lb.  salt  dissolved  in  1  pint  of  water;  boil  and  skim.  When 
well  clarified  the  tallow  should  be  nearly  the  color  of  water. 

Suet. — Cut  fresh  suet  in  small  pieces  and  cover  them  with  water;  let  them 
remain  in  the  water  bath  24  hours,  but  change  the  water  once  during  the  time; 
this  removes  the  peculiar  tallowy  taste.  Now  drain  well  and  put  in  an  iron  ket- 
tle with  %  teacup  of  milk  to  each  pound  of  suet;  let  it  cook  very  slowly  till  the 
fat  looks  clear  and  is  light  brown,  and  till  all  sound  of  cooking  has  ceased.  Loosen 
the  pieces  from  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  to  prevent  scorching,  but  avoid  stirring; 
let  it  stand  till  partly  cooled,  then  pour  into  cups  to  become  cold.  It  smells  as 
sweet  as  butter,  and  can  be  used  in  place  of  it  for  many  purposes.  The  fat  left 
in  the  pieces  may  be  pressed  out  and  used  in  various  ways. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE- 

It  is  a  remark  often  repeated,  but  always  true,  that  woman  makes  the  home. 
The  importance  of  the  home  and  home  life  to  the  well  being  of  society  is  so  well 
known,  and  so  often  dwelt  upon,  as  to  need  no  repetition  here.  The  butterflies 
of  fashion  may  be  indifferent  to  the  value  of  a  thorough  knowledge  of  house- 
keeping, but  sensible  women  know  that  all  other  accomplishments  sink  into 
comparative  unimportance  beside  it,  because  it  more  deeply  affects  woman's  real 
life  and  her  relations  to  the  family  than  any  other.  Like  all  other  accomplish- 
ments it  may  be  acquired  by  study  and  practice,  but  it  can  be  acquired  in  no 
other  way.  Children  should  receive  early  instruction  in  domestic  economy,  and 
the  lessons  should  be  made  as  pleasant,  and  the  subject  as  attractive  as  possible. 
It  may  save  them  from  much  tribulation  and  suffering  later  in  life.  Above  all 
they  should  be  taught  to  take  a  pride  in  their  work,  and  a  delight  in  doing  it 
well.  All  work  well  done  ennobles  fhe  doer,  and  any  work  slighted  is  a  disgrace. 
To  thoroughly  understand  all  the  details  of  housekeeping  is  to  understand  that 
which  lies  at  the  foundation  of  all  the  peace,  comfort  and  well  being  of  the  family. 
It  is  knowledge  and  skill,  not  luck,  which  brings  success.  The  admiration  and 
esteem  of  husband  and  children  will  be  more  surely  won,  and  much  more  surely 
retained,  by  the  ability  to  manage  the  domestic  affairs  skilfully  and  economically, 
than  by  any  of  the  lighter  or  more  showy  accomplishments. 

Even  when  a  woman  expects  that  she  will  be  able  to  employ  servants  to  do 
most  of  the  hard  work,  she  should  know  that  if  she  would  superintend  their 
labors  successfully  she  must  understand  the  details  of  their  work.  Servants  are 
quick  to  detect  ignorance  and  incompetence  in  their  mistress  and  to  take  advan- 
tage of  it  also,  while  superior  intelligence  speedily  commands  their  respect,  and 
checks  their  disposition  to  shirk. 

In  housekeeping,  as  in  everything  else,  system  is  of  the  utmost  importance. 
And  yet  there  are  large  numbers  of  housewives  who  do  not  appreciate  its  value. 
Not  only  should  there  be  a  place  for  everything,  and  everything  put  in  its  place, 
the  importance  of  which  is  often  insisted  on,  though  none  too  often,  but  there 
should  also  be  a  time  for  everything.  Have  certain  days  of  the  week  for  doing 
certain  things,  and  also  arrange  the  work  of  the  day,  as  far  as  possible,  alloting  a 
time  for  every  duty.  It  is  astonishing  how  much  more  can  be  accomplished  by 
regular,  systematic,  well  planned  efforts,  than  by  irregular  and  spasmodic  work. 
Use  your  head  in  your  work,  and  keep  cool  and  self-possessed.  The  following 
rules  are  offered  as  being  suggestive  mainly:  (1)  Plan  your  work  carefully,  and 
work  systematically.  (2)  Never  rely  on  servants,  but  oversee  everything. 
(3)  Avoid  both  extravagance  and  waste.  (4)  Keep  an  accurate  account  of  both 
receipts  and  expenditures.  (5)  Pay  cash,  and  avoid  debt  as  you  would  a  pestilence. 
(6)  When  in  doubt  consult  the  index  of  this  book. 

It  may  safely  be  said  that  the  housewife  is  called  upon  to  display  an  amount 
and  variety  of  knowledge  and  skill  such  as  is  required  of  few  men.  Often,  with- 
out any  special  education  or  preparation,  she  is  called  upon  to  deal  with  the 
most  diverse  subjects;  she  must  mend  and  care  for  the  family  clothing,  and  often 
make  a  good  deal  of  it;  purchase  and  cook  the  food  for  the  family;  attend  to  the 
sinks,  sewers  and  sanitary  condition  of  the  house;  look  after  the  health  of  the 
children  and  doctor  their  colds,  accidents,  and  lighter  complaints,  and  so-  on 
through  a  long  list  of  subjects.  The  object  of  these  pages  is  to  make  a  book  of 
reference  treating  on  the  various  departments  of  housekeeping,  and,  while  avoid- 
ing technical  and  obscure  terms,  to  place  the  teachings  of  modern  science  as  far 
as  possible  within  the  reach  of  its  readers,  on  those  household  subjects  in  which 
science  plays  a  part.  The  subjects  treated  cover  a  wide  range,  but  we  have 
classified  and  arranged  our  information  as  well  as  possible.  Modern  homes  are  sup- 
plied with  so  great  a  variety  of  articles  of  use  and  ornament  that  their  care  is  no 
small  item,  and  we  have  endeavored  to  give  the  best  information  attainable  on 
these  matters.  We  often  give  several  ways  of  doing  the  same  thing.  We  have 
various  reasons  for  this.    One  is  the  desire  to  inform  our  readers  about  the 

(415) 


416  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

matter,  and  another  is  that  it  is  at  some  times  more  convenient  to  use  one  method 
than  another;  also  in  special  cases  one  plan  will  work  where  another  does  not. 
In  any  event  there  is  little  danger  of  having  too  much  information  on  any  sub- 
ject. Some  of  our  readers  may  not  be  familiar  with  some  of  the  materials  whose 
use  we  refer  to,  but  most  of  them  can  easily  be  obtained  at  any  drug  store. 


THE  KITCHEN,   PANTRY  AND  STOREROOM. 

The  Kitchen.— On  the  kitchen  and  its  management  the  comfort  of  the  whole 
house  largely  depends.  It  ought  to  be  large,  and  fitted  up  neatly  and  pleasantly, 
and  it  should  have  an  abundance  of  light  and  a  cheerful  aspect.  All  its  sanitary 
arrangements  should  be  most  carefully  examined  and  attended  to,  since  negli- 
gence here  will  affect  the  whole  household.  See  also  that  it  is  well  ventilated. 
The  essentials  in  the  kitchen  are  to  have  an  abundance  of  light,  good  ventilation, 
a  cheerful  aspect,  and  convenience  of  arrangement  so  as  to  save  all  the  labor 
possible. 

The  walls  should  be  either  whitewashed  or  painted — never  papered.  White- 
wash is  clean  and  sweet,  and  it  can  be  renewed  at  any  time. 

If  whitewash  is  used,  at  least  twice  a  year  a  fresh  coat  should  be  laid  on. 
The  whitewash  can  be  tinted  if  desired.  If  the  walls  are  painted,  a  light  shade 
is  to  be  preferred.  A  good  way  is  to  cover  the  walls  with  a  size  made  of  a  solution 
of  %  lb-  °f  glue  to  the  gallon  of  water,  and  then  apply  a  good  oil  paint.  Painted 
walls  should  be  washed  at  least  twice  a  year.  The  best  finish  for  the  woodwork 
is  to  oil  and  varnish  it,  or  simply  oil  it.  It  can  then  be  easily  and  quickly  wiped 
off  when  soiled.  If  painted,  it  will  require  a  good  deal  of  washing  with  soap  to 
keep  it  in  condition,  and  then  the  paint  will  wear  off  in  spots. 

The  Floor. — Have  the  floor  smoothly  and  evenly  laid,  and  with  hard  wood,  if 
possible.  Carefully  selected  hard  pine  answers  very  we'll,  but  maple  or  birch  are 
better,  birch  being  best  as  it  does  not  stain  so  easily  as  maple;  do  not  use  spruce 
nor  any  soft  wood.  Then  if  the  floor  is  oiled  2  or  3  times  a  year  with  boiled  lin- 
seed oil  it  will  make  the  cleanest  and  least  troublesome  finish.  If  not  oiled, 
apply  a  black  walnut  stain,  or  any  other  which  you  prefer.  We  explain  how  to 
stain  floors  elsewhere,  and  any  woman  can  stain  her  own  floor.  White  floors  are 
too  suggestive  of  aching  backs  and  tired  arms.  Carpets  are  not  suitable  for  a 
kitchen.  Oil  cloth  is  better  than  carpet,  but  it  is  too  cold,  and  is  not  equal  to 
the  wood  floor.    Tiles,  which  are  sometimes  recommended,  tire  the  feet. 

Furnishing  the  Kitchen. — It  is  very  desirable  that  a  kitchen  should  be  fur- 
nished with  all  the  articles  which  will  aid  in  performing  the  necessary  work,  but 
many  housekeepers  do  not  possess  the  means  to  buy  all  they  want.  There  is  no 
disgrace  in  not  being  able  to  buy  certain  articles,  but  there  is  great  disgrace  in 
not  keeping  those  clean  which  are  owned.  The  best  way  to  do  this  is  to  never  allow 
any  article  to  be  put  away  dirty.  If  this  rule  is  followed  uniformly  there  will  be 
little  fear  that  any  article  will  not  be  clean  any  time  it  is  wanted. 

The  furniture  of  the  kitchen  and  pantry  should  include — 

1  good  cooking  stove  or  range.  1  cooking-table. 

1  wash-boiler.  1  ironing  table. 

1  wash-board.  1  low  rocking  chair. 

3  flat-irons.  3  chairs. 

1  polishing  iron.  1  wash-bench. 

1  large  iron  dinner-pot.  3  sizes  of  composition  wash-tubs. 

1  tall,  narrow,  iron  soup-kettle.  2  composition  water-pails. 

2  smaller  vegetable  kettles.  1  coffee-mill. 
1  shallow  iron  doughnut  kettle.  1  spice-mill. 

1  double  boiler.  1  mortar  and  pestle. 

1  large  tea-kettle.  1  pair  scales. 

3  sizes -of  frying-pans.  1  bread-knife  and  board. 
1  dripping-pan  for  roasting  meat.  1  meat-knife  and  board. 
1  porcelain    kettle  for  preserving  and  1  vegetable  knife. 

canning.  3^  dozen  kitchen  knives  and  forks. 

4  brick-shaped  bread-pans.  %  dozen  tinned  spoons  (assorted  sizes). 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  417 

1  round  cake-pan,  with  center  stem.         1  rolling-pin  and  molding-board. 

3  jelly-cake  pans.  1  bread-box,  of  tin. 

1  gem  pan.  1  cake-box,  of  tin. 

2  long,  square  baking-tins.  2  colanders,  1  coarse  and  1  tine, 
1  gridiron.  1  gravy-strainer. 

1  wire  bread-toaster.  1  granite-ware  coffee-pot. 

4  small  saucepans  of  different  sizes.  1  earthen  teapot. 

1  can-cutter.  1  tin  chocolate-pot. 

1  chopping-knife  and  tray  (for  meats).  1  apple-corer. 

1  chopping-tray,  for  onions.  2  large  cooking-bowls. 

1  chopping-tray,  for  fruit.  1  first-class  cook  book. 

At  the  sink  there  should  be — 

1  tin  water-dipper.  1  water-pail. 

1  wash-basin.  1  large  dish-pan. 

1  soap-dish.  1  large  draining-pan. 

1  soap-shaker.  1  large  rinsing-pan. 

Have  roller  towels  and  a  plenty  of  dish  towels,  and  a  slop-pail  near  at  hand. 

For  the  china  closet  and  side-board  there  should  be:  A  dinner  set  of  crockery 
which  includes  the  breakfast  and  tea-set,  goblets,  tumblers,  teaspoons,  table- 
spoons, a  butter  knife,  a  carving  knife  and  fork,  soup  ladle,  pepper-boxes,  salt- 
cellars or  shakers,  vinegar-bottle,  mustard-pot,  glass  dishes  for  pickles  and  cel- 
ery, table-cloths  and  napkins,  crumb-brush  and  pan. 

A  smooth  iron  pot  or  kettle  is  excellent  for  all  general  purposes,  as  it  wears 
indefinitely,  and  is  better  the  longer  it  is  used.  If  by  accident  it  boils  dry,  take 
it  from  the  fire  and  set  it  where  it  will  cool  gradually;  if  cold  water  is  dashed  in, 
it  will  cool  suddenly,  and  crack.  Care  should  also  be  taken  that  iron  kettles  and 
pots  should  not  stand  with  liquids  in  them,  in  cold  weather,  where  they  will  freeze 
solid,  as  that  bursts  them. 

Brass  and  copper  vessels  should  never  be  used  for  cookery,  as  the  danger  of 
poison  is  too  great,  especially  if  used  by  inexperienced  or  ignorant  persons.  The 
mild  acids  found  in  foods  (like  acetic,  malic,  etc.,)  readily  attack  these  metals  and 
produce  poisonous  compounds. 

The  enamelled  or  porcelain  kettle  is  invaluable  for  canning  and  stewing  fruit, 
and  for  making  preserves,  jellies,  and  pickles,  and  one  should  always  be  kept  for 
this  purpose  alone,  but  if  used  as  an  every-day  kettle  for  meats  and  vegetables 
the  enamel  very  soon  wears  or  scales  off,  and  then  it  becomes  a  rough  and  easily- 
rusted  kettle,  to  which  everything  cooked  therein  is  apt  to  stick  and  burn. 

A  double  boiler  should,  if  possible,  be  owned  by  every  family.  It  has  many 
uses,  and  no  kitchen  is  complete  without  one. 

Aluminum  is  undoubtedly  the  best  metal  with  which  to  make  cooking 
utensils.  It  is  light,  durable,  easily  cleaned,  does  not  rust  or  corrode,  and  is 
not  affected  by  any  of  the  mild  acids  found  in  foods.  Although  it  conducts  heat 
readily,  food  cooked  in  it  does  not  burn,  and  the  use  of  aluminum  vessels  largely 
does  away  with  the  need  of  double  boilers  and  porcelain  kettles.  The  cooking 
utensils  of  the  future  will  be  largely  made  of  it  we  believe. 

The  above  list  of  cooking  utensils  and  tableware  might  be  lengthened  indefi- 
nitely if  we  included  all  the  modern  implements  for  the  kitchen  and  pantry  which 
are  seen  in  the  variety  stores,  supplemented  with  the  luxurious  and  expensive 
dining-room  ware  deemed  necessary  by  people  of  wealth,  but  very  fair  cooking 
for  a  small  family  can  be  accomplished  with  the  above  utensils,  and  a  nice  look- 
ing table  furnished  with  the  articles  on  this  list.  Skilled  mechanics,  however, 
know  that  to  do  good  work  they  must  have  good  tools  and  these  must  be  kept  in 
good  condition;  so,  also,  the  woman  who  attempts  to  do  her  work  well,  should  try 
and  secure  the  best  utensils  and  the  most  conveniences  she  can,  and  should  aim 
to  obtain  improved  and  labor-saving  devices  as  they  appear  from  time  to  time. 
A  trifling  outlay  for  a  new  article  will  often  save  a  great  deal  of  work. 

A  Salamander  is  a  round  iron  plate  with  a  long  handle  attached.  The  method 
of  using  it  is  to  heat  it  red  hot,  and  then  to  pass  it  over  dishes,  the  surface  of 
which  it  is  desired  to  brown,  but  which  cannot  be  placed  in  the  oven;  care  is 
needed  not  to  hold  it  too  close,  or  the  surface  will  be  scorched.  A  common  iron 
fire-shovel  makes  a  very  good  substitute  for  a  salamander. 


418  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Have  a  good  dresser,  if  possible,  in  which  to  keep  all  pots,  kettles,  kitchen 
tableware,  etc.  The  doors  of  the  upper  part  of  the  dresser  should  slide  one  in 
front  of  the  other,  instead  of  being  on  hinges.  Have  wide  closets  below,  contain- 
ing shelves,  and  drawers  above  the  closets. 

There  should  be  2  or  3  tables  in  the  kitchen.    It  will  be  a  convenience  to  have 

1  table  set  at  the  end  of  the  sink,  on  which  to  prepare  the  poultry,  vegetables,  etc., 
and  have  it  set  close  to  the  sink  so  that  water  will  not  fall  between  the  two.  Have 
also  a  small  table  covered  with  zinc  on  which  to  rest  the  utensils  when  making 
waffles,  omelets,  etc.,  and  another  table  on  castors,  which  can  be  moved  to  the 
center  of  the  room,  and  then  pushed  out  of  the  way  when  not  in  use. 

A  high  stool  will  be  a  great  advantage  in  every  kitchen.  It  can  have  a  back 
or  a  revolving  top  or  not,  but  it  can  be  used  to  sit  down  on  while  preparing  veg- 
etables, ironing,  washing  dishes,  etc.,  and  the  weariness  and  backache  it  will  save 
will  be  an  immense  benefit.    Sit  down  to  your  work  when  you  can. 

The  Range. — No  other  article  of  furniture  in  the  kitchen  is  so  important  as 
the  range.  The  set  and  portable  ranges  both  have  their  advantages,  but  the 
portable  range  we  think  is  preferable  on  the  whole.  We  can  hardly  discuss  at 
length  here  the  merits  of  the  ranges,  gas  stoves,  etc.,  commonly  used  in  the 
kitchen,  but  we  have  elsewhere  discussed  the  care  of  stoves,  blacking  them,  etc. 

Face  the  door  leading  from  the  kitchen  to  the  dining-room  with  rubber,  and 
put  on  a  moderately  stiff  spring.  This  will  keep  it  closed  and  prevent  noisy 
slamming. 

In  arranging  for  the  work  in  the  kitchen  the  great  aim  should  be  to  system- 
atize things,  and  save  steps  and  labor  as  much  as  possible.  Have  a  good-sized 
sink,  an  iron  one  is  best,  and  have  it  stand  up  on  legs  without  being  enclosed,  as 
all  dark  corners  will  be  lurking  places  for  dirt  and  insects,  and  servants  will  find 
it  so  easy  to  overlook  them!  Have  hooks  under  the  sink  on  which  to  hang  dish- 
cloths, etc.  Nothing  else  is  equal  to  tiles  on  the  walls  back  of  the  sink  and  range. 
If  tiles  are  not  used,  hard  wood  is  best;  and  finish  it  with  oil.  Have  the  strainer 
over  the  waste-pipe  fastened  down  firmly — a  hinged  strainer  is  a  temptation  to 
carelessness.  Have  a  grooved  and  sloping  shelf  at  one  end,  set  so  that  it  will 
drain  into  the  sink,  on  which  to  place  dishes  after  washing  them.  Locate  the 
sink  near  the  range  and  near  a  window,  also,  so  that  it  can  be  well  lighted,  and 
have  brackets  arranged  for  lamps  to  light  it  in  the  evening.  Be  sure  and  pro- 
vide screens  for  the  windows  in  summer,  and  if  a  few  flower  pots  are  put  on  the 
window  sills  they  will  give  a  cheerful  appearance  to  the  room. 

There  are  a  few  little  details  that  are  quite  important  in  securing  comfort  in 
the  kitchen.  One  is  that  the  sink  should  be  scoured  daily  with  soft  soap  and 
boiling  water,  and  rinsed.  A  second  is  that  as  soon  as  the  day's  work  is  done, 
the  window  should  be  opened  at  the  top  to  dispel  all  the  unpleasant  smells;  and 
a  third  is  that  the  floor  should  be  scoured  at  least  twice  a  week  with  plenty  of 
water. 

To  Clean  Wooden  Tables,  Shelves,  Dressers,  Etc. — Fine  wood  ashes  sifted  on 
from  a  cheese-cloth  bag  is  better  than  sand.  Sand,  unless  it  is*  very  fine,  will 
roughen  the  wood  so  that  it  will  be  difficult  to  keep  it  clean.  Always  scrub  with 
the  grain  of  the  wood,  and  when  quite  clean  rinse  away  all  dirt,  and  dry  the 
wood  with  a  flannel  cloth.  Soda  is  better  to  use  on  wood  than  soap,  as  it  keeps 
it  whiter.  Greese  can  often  be  conveniently  removed  by  cutting  a  ripe  tomato 
in  two  and  rubbing  it  on  the  spot.  See  what  we  say  about  wood  floors  for  fur- 
ther points  about  cleaning  wood. 

To  Make  a  Pastry  Bag. — Take  strong  muslin  12  inches  square,  fold  together 

2  opposite  corners  and  fell  together  tightly  2  of  the  edges,  thus  making  a  triangu- 
lar bag;  then  cut  off  the  point  and  insert  a  tin  pastry  tube.  It  is  best  to  make  2 
or  3  bags  for  different  sized  tubes.  To  use  the  bag,  put  in  the  mixture,  close  the 
top,  twist  it,  and  hold  it  tightly  with  the  right  hand,  while  the  left  guides  the 
point  and  presses  out  the  mixture  to  form  lady  fingers,  e'claires  or  anything  else 
desired.     (See  the  illustration  accompanying  "Lady  Fingers.") 

Keep  an  Account  Book. — Few  housekeepers  realize  the  value  and  import- 
ance of  keeping  an  account  of  their  household  expenses.  If  an  account  book 
was  kept  on  a  shelf  in  the  kitchen,  and  entries  made  in  it  of  the  various  expendi- 
tures, it  would  stop  many  a  leak,  and  give  the  housewife  a  much  clearer  idea  of 
where  the  money  was  going,  and  it  would  furnish  a  basis  on  which  to  calculate 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  419 

expenses.  We  firrnly  believe  in  the  value  and  utility  of  such  a  course,  and  the 
labor  involved  is  not  large. 

The  Pantry. — The  pantry  is  second  only  to  the  kitchen  in  importance,  and  it 
justly  receives  much  more  attention  now  than  formerly.  Have  the  pantry  roomy 
and  well  lighted.  Much  work  can  then  be  done  more  pleasantly  here  than  in  the 
kitchen.  Place  the  flour  barrel  on  a  rack  a  few  inches  from  the  floor  to  secure  a  draft 
underneath,  which  will  prevent  dampness.  Have  hooks  at  one  end  on  which  to 
hang  sauce-pans,  etc.,  and  have  an  abundance  of  drawers,  shelves  and  closets  for 
holding  the  china,  tableware,  linen,  etc.  There  can  hardly  be  tooremany.  In 
arranging  the  pantry,  systematize  everything  as  much  as  possible,  and  study  con- 
venience and  economy  of  labor.  To  the  busy  housekeeper  this  is  always  of  great 
importance. 

Pantry  shelves  are  best  washed  with  the  solution  of  hot  alum  water  elsewhere 
recommended,  to  rid  them  of  ants,  cockroaches,  and  other  insects. 

The  {Storeroom. — If  the  arrangement  of  the  house  will  admit  of  it,  a  store- 
room and  a  china  closet  will  also  be  a  great  advantage.  Have  a  small  window  in 
the  storeroom  to  afford  light.  Provide  also  for  its  ventilation,  and  keep  it  locked. 
It  will  be  a  great  economy  to  buy  many  articles  of  food  by  the  quantity,  and  at 
favorable  seasons  when  the  prices  are  low,  if  only  there  is  a  suitable  room  in 
which  to  store  them.  Canned  goods  can  be  bought  by  the  dozen;  soap,  candles, 
starch,  etc.,  by  the  box,  and  so  on.  Ail  foods  which  attract  weevils  or  mice  are 
best  kept  in  tin  boxes.  These  are  more  expensive  than  those  of  wood,  but  they 
are  also  more  durable,  and  in  the  end  more  economical.  Each  box  should  be 
plainly  labeled  so  that  no  mistakes  about  their  contents  can  occur. 

Brooms. — About  once  a  week  dip  brooms  in  hot  soapsuds;  it  can  be  done  on 
wash  days  when  the  suds  are  at  hand.  It  will  make  the  brooms  both  tough  and 
flexible,  and  will  increase  the  wear  of  both  carpets  and  brooms.  Put  a  screw  eye 
in  the  end  of  the  handle  and  hang  up  the  broom — that  is  the  best  way  to  keep  it. 
Patent  holders  may  be  bought,  but  this  answers  as  well.  Always  keep  a  new  broom 
for  sweeping  the  carpets — the  old  one  may  be  used  for  the  outside  stairs  and 
yards,  or  have  a  coarse  broom  for  that  purpose;  never  use  the  same  broom  for  both. 


DISHWASHING. 

In  washing  dishes  either  have  2  pans,  or  1  large  oval  pan  with  a  partition  in 
the  middle,  which  is  a  very  convenient  arrangement.  About  half  fill  one  pan  (or 
division,  if  the  latter  form  of  pan  is  used)  with  water  as  hot  as  you  can  hold  your 
hand  in,  shaking  soap  in  it  till  a  strong  suds  is  formed.  Half  till  the  other  pan 
(or  division)  with  clear  water  which  is  even  hotter.  The  skilful  dish  washer  will 
use  very  hot  water,  as  the  hotter  it  is,  the  more  perfect  will  be  the  work.  Then, 
taking  each  piece  separately,  wash  the  dishes  thoroughly  in  the  first  water,  both 
inside  and  out,  and  in  all  cracks  and  crevices,  and  between  the  tines  of  the  forks, 
etc.,  and  rinse  them  in  the  second  water,  and  set  them  on  the  grooved  dish-drainer, 
beside  the  sink,  if  you  have  one.  When  well  drained,  wipe  them  dry  with  a 
clean  soft  towel,  as  perfect  drying  is  an  important  matter. 

In  washing  dishes  observe  the  proper  order.  First  wash  the  glasses,  and  then 
the  silverware,  unless  both  of  these  are  washed  separately  in  water  containing  am- 
monia but  no  soap,  which  is  really  the  best  way  to  wash  them.  Then  wash  the 
cups  and  saucers  and  the  articles  which  have  not  come  in  contact  with  grease. 
Then  wash  the  plates  and  dishes,  which  should  be  scraped  as  clean  as  possible, 
and  renew  the  suds  if  need  be.  Then  wash  the  tinware  and  other  utensils.  After 
washing  them,  put  the  tin,  iron  and  granite  ware  in  a  moderately  warm  place 
near  the  fire  to  warm  and  dry  for  a  few  minutes  before  putting  them  away,  which 
will  keep  them  fresh  and  sweet.  In  order  that  they  may  dry  well  do  not  turn 
down  the  glassware,  etc..  after  wiping  it,  until  it  is  put  away  in  the  closet. 
Some  people  prefer  to  wash  their  delicate  china  and  glassware  in  a  wooden  bowl, 
as  there  is  less  liability  of  breaking  or  chipping  it  than  in  metal  pans.  Some  use 
more  soda  for  washing  dishes,  and  less  soap.  It  works  well,  and  if  used  judi- 
ciously, very  little  soap  is  needed  for  this  purpose.  Under  the  head  of  "Glass- 
ware,"' "Silverware,"  etc.,  we  give  many  hints  about  the  care  and  cleaning  of 
these  articles. 


420  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

A  sort  of  small  dish-mop,  tied  to  a  handle,  will  be  found  very  convenient  for 
washing  small  deep  articles.  Every  kitchen  should  be  provided  plentifully  with 
towels,  and  they  should  be  as  regularly  and  carefully  laundried  as  any  of  the 
other  clothes.  A  failure  to  boil,  and  dry  in  the  fresh  air,  is  what  causes  the  close, 
sour  smell  in  dishcloths,  with  which  all  housekeepers  are  familiar,  and  it  is 
wholly  unnecessary  and  unpardonable.  It  will  be  best  to  use  3  wiping  towels 
each  time — 1  for  the  finer  articles,  another  for  the  greasy  dishes  and  the 
last  for  the  tinware  and  other  utensils.  All  the  utensils  of  tin,  iron,  wood,  etc., 
should  be  washed  and  wiped  as  carefully  as  the  tableware.  Soft  crash  towels 
are  the  best  to  use,  and  a  dozen  or  more  should  be  prepared  at  a  time. 

When  dishes  are  washed  in  hard  water  add  a  little  milk.  Putting  ^  to  %  of 
a  cup  of  milk  into  a  dishpan  half  full  of  hot  water  will  be  a  great  improvement 
at  any  time;  it  will  make  the  dishes  brighter,  and  keep  the  hands  soft.  It  also 
makes  the  washing  of  pots  and  tins  easier. 

Wash  dishes,  kettles,  etc.,  soon  after  using  them;  do  not  let  them  lie  around 
unwashed. 

The  dishwater  and  soapsuds  may  be  utilized  by  pouring  it  about  the  roots 
of  the  raspberry  or  currant  bushes,  or  young  fruit  trees.  Few  people  realize 
what  a  surprisingly  good  fertilizer  it  is.  No  one  having  a  garden  should  waste 
their  soapsuds. 

Broom-corn  tied  with  strong  cords  near  the  coarse  ends  into  bundles  about  as 
large  as  a  broom  handle,  makes  very  handy  wisps  for  cleaning  pots,  kettles, 
dishes,  etc.  If  you  sprinkle  cornmeal  on  very  greasy  dishes,  and  then  scrape 
them  with  one  of  these  wisps  before  wetting  them,  it  will  keep  the  dishwater 
much  cleaner  and  better  for  use.  The  cornmeal  can  afterwards  be  fed  to  the 
chickens  or  pigs  so  that  it  will  not  be  wasted.  The  wire  dishcloth  is  invaluable 
in  washing  pots  and  kettles.    It  is  always  clean  and  never  wears  out. 

Many  servants,  or  perhaps  most  servants,  are  unreasonably  careless  in  hand- 
ling dishes,  and  the  number  broken  is  often  appalling.  They  should  be  told 
that  they  will  be  required  to  replace  all  dishes  which  they  either  break  or  nick 
(the  latter  is  quite  as  bad  as  the  former)  or  the  value  will  be  deducted  from  their 
wages.  Such  a  rule  will  both  make  them  more  careful,  and  so  avert  much  needless 
breakage,  and  it  will  develop  a  habit  of  watchfulness  in  the  servants  which  will 
be  a  great  benefit  to  them. 

Washing  Glassware. — Never  put  glass  into  hot  water  bottom  first,  as  it  will 
then  be  liable  to  crack  from  its  sudden  expansion,  but  the  finest  and  most  delicate 
glass  will  be  safe  if  it  is  slipped  in  edgeways,  which  is  a  fact  worth  remembering. 

KNIVES  AND  FORKS. 

Steel  knives  and  forks  should  be  cleaned  as  quickly  as  possible  after  being 
used;  the  longer  they  are  left  with  stains  on  them  the  harder  they  will  be  to 
clean.  Then  dip  the  blades  only  into  a  jug  of  hot  water  and  wipe  dry  with  a  soft 
linen  cloth.  Rubbing  the  blades  with  a  flannel  dipped  in  oil,  leaving  it  on  1  or 
2  hours,  and  then  wiping  dry  improves  them.  Putting  on  powdered  quicklime, 
leaving  it  on  an  hour  or  two,  and  then  wiping  it  off,  is  also  good.  A  paper  box 
containing  slacked  lime  should  be  kept  near  them  in  damp  weather;  the  lime 
attracts  the  moisture  in  the  air  and  prevents  their  rusting. 

To  scour  knives  and  forks  bath  brick  is  most  commonly  used,  and  is  undoubt- 
edly good.  If  2  ordinary  bricks  are  rubbed  together,  and  the  dust  gathered  up 
and  kept  for  this  purpose,  it  is  about  as  good  as  the  bath  brick.  Rubbing  them 
with  pulverized  charcoal  also  gives  a  superior  polish.  In  scouring,  use  a  cork  or 
cloth,  dipped  in  hot  water  or  soft  soap,  and  then  in  whatever  scouring  dust  is 
used;  a  raw  potato  cut  in  two  and  used  with  the  scouring  dust,  instead  of  a  cork, 
cleans  beautifully.  A  little  baking  soda  mixed  with  the  brick  dust  will  make 
it  polish  better.  Scour  briskly  until  all  spots  are  gone;  then  wash  the  article, 
rinse  in  hot  water,  and  wipe  dry.  A  better  knife  board,  however, *s  one  covered 
with  very  thick  leather,  on  which  emery  powder  is  placed.  Rubbing  the  knives 
on  this  gives  a  fine  polish,  and  does  not  wear  them  out  so  fast  as  the  plain  board 
and  bath  brick. 

Ivory,  bone  and  pearl  handled  knives  should  never  be  put  in  hot  water.  The 
heat  will  soften  the  cement  with  which  the  handle  is  fastened  on,  and  it  will 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  421 

soon  loosen.  Use  only  lukewarm  soapsuds,  and  lukewarm  rinsing  water.  Great 
care  must  be  used  to  wipe  them,  dry,  and  see  that  they  are  thoroughly  dry  before 
laying  them  away.    Soapsuds  does  not  injure  ivory. 

An  excellent  way  to  prevent  putting  pearl  and  ivory  handled  knives  in  water 
while  washing  them  is  to  cut  narrow  slits  in  a  piece  of  tin  and  set  this  over  a  jar 
or  pail,  full  of  hot  soda  water;  drop  the  knives  or  forks  in  the  slits  and  the  blades 
and  prongs  will  go  into  the  water,  but  the  handles  will  not. 

To  clean  ivory  and  bone  handles,  and  also  to  take  off  the  yellow  tinge,  see 
"Bone  and  Ivory"  elsewhere.  When  not  in  constant  use  ivory  handled  knives 
should  be  taken  out  occasionally  and  the  handles  exposed  to  the  rays  of  the  sun 
to  prevent  their  turning  yellow. 

Cement  for  Knife  and  Fork  Handles. — Knife  and  fork  handles  which  become 
loose  may  be  fastened  on  again  by  nearly  filling  the  hollow  with  one  of  the  follow- 
ing cements,  then  heat  the  tang  and  press  it  in:  (1)  Melt  together  4  parts  resin 
and  1  part  beeswax;  when  melted,  stir  in  1  part  fine  brick  dust.  (2)  Melt  together 
5  parts  pitch;  1  part  hard  tallow;  1  part  wood  ashes.  (3)  Melt  together  1  part 
resin  and  1  part  sulphur,  and  stir  in  1  part  brick  dust.  (4)  Melt  together  1  part 
colophony  and  %  part  sulphur;  when  cold  grind  it  to  powder,  and  mix  in  %  as 
much  iron  filings  or  brick  dust.    Very  tenacious. 

To  keep  steel  knives  and  forks  from  rusting  when  not  in  use  there  are 
various  methods:  (1)  Rub  them  with  mutton  tallow  (use  the  raw)  and  wrap 
silver  paper,  or  coarse  brown  paper  around  them.  Do  not  wrap  them  in  woolens — 
they  do  not  keep  well  so.  (2)  Prepare  a  strong  solution  of  soda—4  parts  soda  to  1  of 
water;  dip  them  (steel  parts  only — not  the  handles)  in  the  solution,  wipe  dry, 
wrap  in  coarse  brown  paper  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  (3)  Have  a  case  containing 
sifted  quicklime  about  8  inches  deep;  plunge  them  in  this  to  the  top  of  the  blades, 
but  do  not  let  the  lime  touch  the  handles.    (See  also  our  article  on  "Steel.") 

To  Take  off  Rust. — If  knives  become  rusty,  rub  on  sweet  oil  and  leave  it  on  a 
couple  of  days;  then,  using  a  lump  of  fresh  lime,  scour  them  until  the  rust  is 
gone. 

To  Remove  the  Taste  of  Fish. — When  steel  knives  and  forks  taste  of  fish,  rub 
them  with  fresh  lemon  or  orange  peel;  that  will  remove  the  taste. 

Hints. — The  cutlery  used  for  the  table  should  not  be  used  to  cook  with,  nor 
in  the  kitchen.    Have  separate  sets  for  each  purpose. 

Never  put  a  knife  into  hot  grease;  that  will  take  the  temper  out  of  the  steel 
and  spoil  it. 

KETTLES  AND  VESSELS. 

In  buying  iron  utensils  get  the  best  quality,  and  see  that  they  are  well  fin- 
ished. Heat  them  gradually  at  first,  and  they  will  afterwards  be  less  likely  to 
crack.  The  iron  taste  may  be  removed  by  putting  in  a  handful  of  hay  and  boil- 
ing it  for  a  little  while.  Tin  and  wooden  ware  may  be  sweetened  the  same  way. 
A  good  way  to  treat  new  iron  utensils  is  to  first  wash,  and  wipe  dry;  then  rub 
over  the  inside  with  some  pure  oil  or  fat;  let  stand  a  few  hours  and  wash  again; 
then  heat  gradually  over  the  fire;  then  wash  again  with  soap  and  water,  rinse, 
wipe  dry,  and  then  rub  hard  with  a  dry  towel;  this  will  smooth  the  surface.  As 
they  are  used,  and  the  surface  becomes  smooth,  they  become  more  valuable.  Do 
not  wipe  them  with  a  wet  cloth  and  then  put  on  the  stove  to  dry,  as  that  will 
tend  to  rust  them,  and  make  the  surface  rough. 

Utensils  of  all  kinds,  iron,  tin  or  wood,  should  be  cleaned  with  the  utmost  care. 

Always  fill  a  bowl  or  pan  with  water  as  soon  as  through  with  it,  if  you  are 
not  then  ready  to  wash  it,  in  order  to  prevent  the  remnants  of  the  substance 
which  it  contained  from  hardening  on  the  surface,  and  so  becoming  difficult  of 
removal. 

Frying-pans,  granite-ware,  etc.,  should  be  frequently  scoured.  Whenever 
they  begin  to  look  dull  and  rough,  and  all  traces  of  the  food  are  not  removed  by 
soap  and  water,  scour  them  with  sapolio  or  bath  brick.  The  former  is  best,  but 
keep  the  articles  fresh  and  bright. 

To  remove  the  fur  on  the  kettle,  if  made  of  iron  or  copper,  place  it  over  the 
fire  empty  for  a  short  time;  the  scaly  deposit  will  be  loosened  so  that  it  can  be 
removed  easily.  A  tea-kettle  may  be  prevented  from  becoming  furred  by  putting 
a  clean  oyster  shell  in  it. 


422  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

A  kettle  may  be  easily  cleaned  by  putting  in  a  little  hot  water,  putting  on  the 
cover,  and  boiling  it  a  short  time;  the  steam  loosens  the  dirt,  and  it  can  be  readily 
scoured  off  afterwards. 

Iron  Pots  or  Kettles. — A  new  iron  pot  or  kettle,  before  being  cooked  in,  should 
have  ashes  or  hay  boiled  in  it;  then  scour  it  well  with  soapsuds  and  sand;  then 
rinse  it  out  and  boil  clean  water  in  it  for  2or3  hours.  Many  things  may  be  safely 
cooked  in  iron  which  are  generally  cooked  in  granite-ware,  if  it  is  kept  scrupu- 
lously clean.  The  outside  of  iron  pots  and  kettles  can  be  washed  with  hot  water 
and  soap,  or  soapsuds  and  sand.  Grease  an  iron  pot  with  new  lard  after  using, 
to  prevent  its  rusting. 

//  anything  becomes  burned  on  a  kettle  scrape  it  off  with  an  oyster  or  clam 
shell,  which  is  better  than  a  knife. 

If  a  copper  tea-kettle  is  used  it  can  be  kept  bright  and  clean  by  scrubbing  it 
off  every  morning  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  sour  milk,  and  then  washing  it  with 
clean  water.  A  solution  of  salt  and  buttermilk  will  also  clean  a  copper  kettle 
readily;  then  rinse  it  well. 

Before  cooking  fish  in  a  kettle  put  it  over  the  fire  and  heat  it;  if  any  odor 
arises  clean  it  out  with  soda  or  whiting  before  using.  If  the  smallest  particle  of 
fish  remains  in  a  kettle  the  next  fish  cooked  in  it  is  apt  to  be  tainted. 

Removing  Disagreeable  Odors. — Disagreeable  odors,  like  those  from  onions, 
cabbage,  fish,  etc.,  sometimes  cling  to  cooking  utensils,  even  after  the  most  care- 
ful washing.  (1)  If  they  are  put  in  hot  water  containing  a  little  washing  soda, 
potash  or  concentrated  lye,  and  afterwards  washed  with  hot  suds,  then  rinsed 
and  dried,  they  will  be  perfectly  sweet.  (2)  Odors  like  those  from  musk,  cod-liver 
oil,  etc.,  can  be  removed  from  pans  or  vessels  by  using  ground  mustard  mixed 
with  a  little  water.  Flaxseed  meal,  or  any  other  of  the  oily  seeds,  or  almond 
cake,  or  bitter  almonds,  will  answer  the  same  purpose.  Scale  pans  or  any  vessel 
may  be  thus  cleansed. 

Cake  tins  should  be  washed  like  other  dishes,  first  thoroughly  inside  and  out 
with  soapsuds,  then  rinsed,  wiped  clean,  and  thoroughly  dried. 

Pie-plates,  baking -dishes,  pans,  which  have  been  used  for  baking  and  become 
rancid,  pots,  etc.,  can  be  cleaned  by  putting  them  in  cold  water,  adding  some 
washing  soda,  and  bringing  them  to  a  boil;  then  set  them  aside  to  cool,  and  then 
scrub  them  thoroughly  with  hot  soapsuds,  using  a  small  brush;  scald  2  or  3  times 
with  hot  water,  and  wipe  dry.    This  will  keep  them  sweet  and  clean. 

A  saucepan  which  is  clean  outside  will  cook  more  quickly  than  one  which  is 
dirty,  and  all  cooking  utensils  should  be  thoroughly  clean  on  the  outside.  Half 
the  smudges  on  hands,  face,  and  clothing  of  the  slovenly  cook  come  from  the  out- 
side of  pots,  pans,  and  kettles. 

After  making  pastry  put  water  in  the  bowl  used,  scrape  the  board  clean  and 
wash  it  if  necessary  and  also  the  rolling-pin,  although  a  neat  pastry  maker 
scarcely  soils  a  board.  If  either  a  marble  slab  or  a  glass  rolling-pin  is  used  they 
should  be  washed  each  time. 

A  frying-pan  should  not  have  the  inside  scraped,  as  anything  afterwards 
fried  in  it  is  liable  to  stick  on,  or  burn  the  pan.  If  the  inside  is  black,  rub  it  with 
a  hard  crust  of  bread,  and  wash  it  afterwards  with  hot  water  and  sand  soap. 
Ordinarily,  wash  it  in  hot  water  and  soda,  without  soap  or  sand;  then  rinse,  dry 
thoroughly,  and  deep  in  a  dry  place. 

For  cleaning  porcelain  kettles,  etc.,  see.  "Porcelain." 

Sieves. — Wash  sieves  with  soap  and  water,  rinse  thoroughly,  and  let  them  dry 
of  their  own  accord. 

Soap  stone  griddles  are  better  than  iron  ones.  After  lifting  one  mess  of  cakes, 
rub  them  with  brown  paper  before  putting  on  another  mess;  do  not  grease  the 
griddle  as  that  would  spoil  it.  When  through  with  it  rub  it  clean  with  sand- 
paper before  putting  it  away;  if  a  little  rough  at  first,  it  will  soon  be  smoothed 
with  the  sand-paper. 

Tea-Kettles. — The  kettle  in  which  water  is  boiled  for  tea,  of  whatever  material 
it  is  made,  should  have  a  lid  that  shuts  closely,  and  be  kept  quite  free  from  fur. 
If  water,  especially  hard  water,  be  constantly  boiled  in  the  same  vessel,  which  is 
filled  up  from  time  to  time  and  never  emptied,  fur  will  accumulate..  A  clean 
oyster  shell  or  a  marble  or  two  put  into  the  kettle  will  prevent  this  by  continu- 
ally moving  about  as  the  water  boils,  but  a  much  cleaner  and  better  plan  is  to 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  423 

never  let  a  kettle  stand  with  a  small  quantity  of  water  in  it.  When  not  actually 
needed  for  use  pour  out  the  water,  rinse  with  clean  water,  wipe,  and  leave  it  dry. 

Teapots. — To  keep  a  teapot  clean  and  sweet  great  care  is  needed.  Immedi- 
ately after  use,  remove  the  old  leaves,  scald  the  teapot  out  with  fresh  hot  water, 
and  wipe  it  quite  dry.  Never  allow  the  inside  to  become  stained  with  the  old 
leaves;  no  good  tea  can  be  made  in  a  stained  teapot.  The  smell  alone  should  re- 
veal this,  and  yet  many  persons  take  no  pains  to  keep  their  teapots  clean  inside. 
A  new  teapot  thus  treated  from  the  beginning  will  give  little  trouble  and  never 
become  stained. 

Never  put  a  teapot  away,  even  for  a  few  hours,  with  the  lid  closed.  When  the 
lid  is  closed,  dampness  gathers,  and  the  pot  soon  becomes  musty.  A  small  stick 
will  keep  the  lid  open,  enough  to  admit  the  air  and  keep  it  sweet. 

To  clean  a  musty  teapot  fill  it  with  boiling  water  and  add  some  strong  wash- 
ing soda;  leave  it  in  a  day  or  two,  and  then  wash  out  thoroughly. 

Coffee-Pots. — For  the  care  of  coffee-pots,  see  our  article  elsewhere  on  making 
coffee. 

REFRIGERATORS. 

A  refrigerator  is  so  useful  in  preserving  food  in  hot  weather,  etc.,  that  it  is  a 
very  profitable  investment.  Its  care  is  important.  Twice  a  week  during  the 
season  every  part,  except  the  ice  compartment,  should  be  gone  over,  the  shelves 
taken  out,  and  all  the  surfaces  washed  and  wiped  carefully.  Once  a  week  use 
some  of  the  "washing  soda"  solution  given  among  the  "Useful  Articles."  Care 
must  be  taken  that  no  fragment  of  fish,  meat,  or  other  substance  lodges  in  any 
corner  to  decay  and  taint  the  contents.  Once  in  2  weeks  will  be  often  enough  to 
wash  the  ice  compartment.  All  strong  smelling  articles,  as  well  as  the  milk  and 
butter,  should  be  kept  covered,  and  it  is  a  good  idea  to  keep  some  charcoal  in  the 
refrigerator,  changing  it  occasionally.  Do  not  have  the  waste  pipe  connected  di- 
rectly with  the  sewer.  If  the  waste  water  is  to  run  into  the  sewer,  let  it  drip  into 
a  tunnel  connected  with  a  pipe  running  to  the  general  drainage  system  of  the 
house,  keeping,  in  this  way,  a  current  of  air  between  the  drain  pipe  and  the  re- 
frigerator. It  is  important  that  there  should  be  no  connection  between  any  place 
where  food  is  kept  and  any  drain  or  receptacle  of  waste  matter. 

Two  refrigerators  are  desirable,  one  for  milk  and  butter  alone,  and  one  for 
meat,  vegetables  and  other  food. 

If  a  dish  containing  a  good-sized  lump  of  unslacked  lime  is  placed  on  a  shelf 
in  the  refrigerator  it  will  absorb  the  moisture,  and  so  help  to  prevent  mold  and 
keep  the  food  from  spoiling. 

If  through  the  carelessness  of  servants,  butter,  grease,  etc.,  has  come  _  in 
contact  with  the  zinc  lining  of  the  refrigerator  and  there  is  a  musty  smell  which 
cannot  be  removed  with  the  soda-wash,  mix  a  quart  of  quick-lime,  and  apply  with 
a  paint-brush  to  every  part  of  the  zinc  lining — top  as  well  as  bottom  and  sides, 
washing  it  on  thick  like  paint.  If  the  wooden  racks  or  trays  cannot  be  made 
sweet  by  the  use  of  the  strong  soda  water  and  drying  in  the  hot  sun,  paint  them 
also  with  the  thick  lime-wash  and  you  will  be  well  pleased  with  the  result. 


SINKS    AND    DRAINS. 

Always  have  a  window  over  or  near  the  sink.  Glazed  stoneware  is  the  best 
material  with  which  to  line  them.  Iron  is  often  used.  Lead  is  not  suitable  as 
grease  and  soap  have  a  tendency  to  adhere  to  it,  and  it  is  difficult  to  keep  such 
sinks  clean.  A  rusty  iron  sink  may  be  cleaned  by  letting  it  dry,  and  then  rub  it 
with  kerosene  on  a  woolen  cloth.  Or  rub  it  with  emery  powder,  or  with  vinegar 
and  salt.  To  prevent  an  iron  sink  from  rusting  dissolve  %  lb.  of  asphaltum  in 
spirits  of  turpentine,  and  apply  it  with  a  brush.  Every  day  when  through  with 
the  sink  wash  it  with  soap  and  water,  or  soda  and  water,  and  thus  keep  it  uni- 
formly clean.  All  the  sink  brushes  should  be  washed  in  soapsuds,  or  soda  and 
water,  once  a  week.    See  the  "washing  soda"  given  among  the  "Useful  Articles." 

Vegetable  Waters. — If  the  water  in  which  cabbages,  greens,  onions,  etc.,  have 
been  boiled  is  poured  down  the  kitchen  sink,  it  is  apt  to  emit  an  odor  which  may 


424  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

permeate  the  whole  house.  It  is  much  better  to  throw  the  water  in  which  vege- 
tables have  been  boiled  in  the  back  yard  away  from  the  house.  If  such  water 
is  poured  down  the  sink,  even  when  there  are  sewers  and  traps  in  good  working 
order,  some  deodorizing  disinfectant  should  be  poured  down  immediately  after. 

Refuse. — Never  sweep  any  refuse  matter  towards  or  down  a  drain  pipe;  and 
be  sure  and  keep  the  holes  or  Openings  clear. 

Flushing  Pipes.— Some  people  think  that  when  the  water  trickles  or  runs 
slowly,  that  it  flushes  out  the  pipe  and  clears  the  drain.  That  is  a  great  mistake. 
A  driblet  of  water  is  useless  for  that  purpose,  and  is  a  sheer  waste.  What  is 
needed  to  flush  and  clear  a  pipe  or  drain,  is  a  deluge  of  water,  which  acts  like  a 
torrent,  sweeping  things  before  it. 

The  drain  pipe  should,  once  or  twice  a  week,  have  a  good  disinfectant  poured 
down  it.  Dissolve  5  cents  worth  of  copperas  in  %  Pa^  °f  water  and  pour  it  down. 
This  is  the  best  thing  to  use,  and  it  will  kill  all  foul  smells  and  keep  the  drain 
pure.  Carbolic  acid  and  chloride  of  lime  answer  well,  but  their  smell  is  offensive 
to  many  people,  and  the  latter  spoils  food  exposed  to  its  odor. 

To  prevent  the  accumulation  of  greasy  deposits  there  should  be  poured  down 
the  kitchen  sink  once  or  twice  a  week  regularly,  the  year  round,  1  or  2  buckets  of 
boiling  hot  water  containing  common  soda  or  potash.  This  will  not  injure  the 
pipes  in  the  least,  and  it  will  keep  them  clean.  It  converts  the  fats  into  soft 
soap,  and  clears  drains  which  at  first  appear  to  be  hopelessly  choked;  .2  or  3 
doses  may  occasionally  be  needed.  Copperas  is  sometimes  used,  but  for  this 
purpose  soda  or  potash  is  better. 

All  the  closets,  sinks,  and  catch-basins  in  the  house  should  have  some  good 
disinfectant  poured  down  them  every  3  or  4  weeks. 

To  detect  a  leak  in  a  waste  pipe  go  into  a  room  where  the  waste  pipe  starts, 
shut  the  door,  and  pour  down  it  a  pail  of  boiling  water  containing  2  or  3  oz.  oil 
of  peppermint;  let  some  one  follow  along  the  pipe  who  has  not  inhaled  the  pepper- 
mint; its  strong  pungent  odor  will  readily  be  noticed  at  the  point  of  leakage. 

Server  Gas. — When  it  is  suspected  that  sewer  gas  is  escaping  from  a  pipe  or 
drain  it  may  be  readily  tested  by  moistening  some  muslin  in  acetate  of  lead; 
wrap  a  single  layer  of  this  muslin  over  the  pipe  where  the  leak  is  suspected,  and 
the  cloth  will  be  darkened  by  the  escaping  gas,  if  there  is  any. 


CELLARS. 

Instead  of  being  neglected,  as  they  too  often  are,  cellars  should  be  considered 
as  one  of  the  most  important  features  of  a  home.  They  should  be  kept  scrupu- 
lously clean,  and  well  drained  and  ventilated.  Many  cases  of  disease  can  be  di- 
rectly traced  to  ill-kept  cellars.  Look  after  the  drainage,  and  see  that  the  cellar 
is  kept  as  dry  as  possible.  Attend  also  to  the  ventilation.  A  brick  taken  out 
from  the  bottom  of  the  chimney  flue  makes  a  good  opening  for  the  escape  of  the 
damp  air.  Ventilate  at  the  bottom  when  possible,  so  as  to  change  the  whole  air 
in  the  cellar.  Open  and  ventilate  it  as  early  in  the  spring  as  the  weather  is  at 
all  suitable,  and  during  the  whole  season  admit  as  much  fresh  air  as  possible. 
During  summer  the  windows  should  be  opened  for  ventilation  mostly  at  night — 
the  last  thing  before  retiring — and  kept  closed  during  the  day.  This  allows  the 
cool  air  to  circulate  during  the  night.  The  object  to  aim  at  is  to  keep  the  cellar 
cool  and  dry.  Air  admitted  on  a  warm  day  into  a  cool  cellar,  will  deposit  its 
moisture  on  the  cellar  walls,  and  defeat  the  very  object  sought.  Lime  will  ab- 
sorb the  moisture  and  noxious  gases,  if  they  cannot  be  expelled,  or  their  forma- 
tion prevented.  A  peck  of  lime  will  absorb  about  3  quarts  of  water,  and  in  this 
way  a  cellar  can  be  soon  dried,  even  in  the  hottest  weather.  Charcoal  is  also  a 
great  absorber  of  gases,  and  when  a  cellar  cannot  be  well  ventilated,  and  has  a 
damp  smell,  a  few  plates  of  charcoal  set  around  will  greatly  improve  the  air.  A 
tub  of  broken  ice  with  salt  in  it  will  lower  the  temperature  of  a  cellar  at  any 
time. 

In  cleaning  the  cellar  in  the  spring,  change  the  places  of  all  boxes,  barrels, 
etc.,  in  order  that  the  dampness  beneath  them  may  thoroughly  dry  out.  Sweep 
overhead,  and  down  the  walls,  and  clean  out  all  nooks  and  corners.  Take  special 
pains  to  clear  out  all  remnants  of  vegetables,  and  all  shreds  of  growing  things,  in 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  425 

order  that  they  may  not  remain  to  decay  and  pollute  the  air.  Exhalations  from 
such  things  will  find  their  way  into  the  rooms  above  and  often  injure  the  health 
of  the  family.  It  is  an  excellent  plan  to  whitewash  the  walls  and  ceiling,  making 
the  whitewash  yellow  with  copperas,  and  add  a  little  salt.  That  will  kill  all  in- 
sects and  sweeten  the  cellar.  Carry  out  and  destroy  all  rubbish,  and  sprinkle 
thoroughly  all  over  the  cellar  bottom,  a  strong  solution  of  copperas  water  and 
common  salt,  put  in  a  watering  pot;  a  second  sprinkling  also  will  be  all  the 
better.  The  unpleasant  odor  which  often  taints  milk,  meat,  etc.,  can  be  pre- 
vented by  using  about  1  oz.  of  carbolic  acid  to  a  gallon  of  whitewash. 

Chloride  of  Lime. — As  the  odor  of  chloride  of  lime  will  spoil  the  flavor  of  all 
foods,  it  should  not  be  used  to  disinfect  cellars. 

A  hanging  shelf  in  the  cellar  is  indispensable,  and  a  dark  cupboard  for  stor- 
ing canned  fruit.  The  bottom  of  this  cupboard  or  closet  should  be  well  set  up 
from  the  bottom  of  the  cellar  to  prevent  dampness  and  mold. 

Cellar  windows  should  (1)  be  protected  on  the  outside  with  iron  bars,  strong 
coarse  wire  netting,  or  strong  wooden  bars;  (2)  inside  this  outer  screen  should  be 
a  wire  screen,  fine  enough  to  keep  out  flies  and  other  insects;  (3)  the  glass  win- 
dows should  be  hung  on  hinges  to  open  and  shut  in  a  moment's  time  when 
needed.    A  cellar  should  be  well  supplied  with  light. 

Divide  the  cellar  into  different  rooms  which  can  be  kept  at  different  temper- 
atures, if  the  cellar  is  to  be  used  for  various  purposes  such  as  storing  vegetables 
and  fuel,  and  containing  the  furnace. 

The  _F7oor.— Make  the  cellar  floor  of  about  6  inches  of  concrete,  and  cover  it 
with  Portland  cement  or  asphalt.  In  damp  soil  put  tiling  under  the  floor,  and  so 
drain  the  water  out  and  carry  it  away  from  the  house.  Remember  that  a  cellar 
free  from  dampness  and  ground  air  is  essential  to  health,  and  if  economy  is  neces- 
sary other  things  should  be  sacrificed  to  obtain  this. 

The  Walls. — If  cellar  walls  are  built  of  brick,  water  will  pass  through  however 
thick  they  may  be,  unless  they  are  built  hollow.  In  building,  put  a  thin  outer 
wall  2  or  3  inches  from  the  main  one,  binding  the  2  together  by  an  occasional 
brick  laid  across.    Make  the  wall  air  and  water  tight  if  possible. 

If  cellar  walls  are  damp,  apply  one  of  the  compositions  given  elsewhere  for 
damp  walls. 

When  cellars  have  been  flooded  they  should  be  thoroughly  disinfected  after 
the  inundation  subsides.  About  the  best  thing  for  this  purpose  is  chloride  of 
zinc;  copperas  is  cheaper,  and  answers  fairly  well,  but  is  not  equal  to  the  zinc. 

The  Garbage  Pail  or  Barrel. — Neglected  garbage  pails  are  a  sure  and  ready 
breeding  place  for  dangerous  and  disease  breeding  bacteria;  and  yet  many  other- 
wise neat  housekeepers  often  neglect  them.  They  should  be  regularly  emptied 
and  carefully  cleaned.  On  the  weekly  washing  day,  when  there  is  a  good  supply 
of  suds,  is  a  good  time  for  cleaning  them.  Take  an  old  broom  and  scrub  the 
pail  thoroughly  with  the  suds,  and  scrub  the  lid  also.  Then  throw  in  a  solution 
of  washing  soda  or  lye,  in  hot  water,  and  scrub  it  around  with  a  little  whisk, 
touching  every  part  with  this  disinfecting  solution;  then  rinse  it  with  clean  water, 
drain  it,  and  set  in,  the  hot  sun  to  dry. 


THE  ICE-HOUSE  AND  ICE. 

Ice  in  the  summer  is  a  great  convenience,  almost  a  necessity,  and  a  supply 
can  be  put  up  by  people  in  the  country  much  more  easily  than  many  imagine. 
An  ice-house  need  not  be  put  under  ground  even  in  part,  and  the  expense  of 
building  a  moderate  sized  one  is  small,  or  a  corner  can  be  partitioned  off  in  the 
shed,  or  even  in  the  barn.  The  best  lumber  is  not  needed,  but  it  will  be  a  good 
plan  to  coat  it  inside  with  coal  tar  to  prevent  its  decaying  from  its  constant  ex- 
posure to  dampness.  The  roof  should  be  tight,  and  provision  made  at  the  bottom 
for  drainage  so  that  any  water  which  comes  from  melting  ice  may  run  off  freely. 
It  is  not  necessary  to  use  matched  lumber,  but  a  space  of  12  to  15  inches  should 
be  left  between  the  ice  and  the  walls,  when  packing  it  away,  which  should  be 
filled  in  with  sawdust,  and  as  that  settles  down,  more  should  be  added.  Chaff  or 
straw  cut  fine,  may  be  used  instead  of  the  sawdust  if  that  is  hard  to  get.  As  the 
ice  melts  rather  more  at  the  sides  than  at  the  top,  the  house  should  be  rather 

26 


426  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

wide  than  deep.  The  best  time  to  cut  the  ice  is  as  soon  in  the  winter  as  it  is 
frozen  sufficiently  thick,  and  before  it  has  been  thawed  or  honeycombed  by  the 
sun,  as  happens  later  in  the  season.  If  packed  away  when  the  thermometer  is 
about  zero  it  can  be  handled  most  easily,  and  keeps  best.  Put  a  foot  or  more 
of  sawdust  on  the  floor  before  packing  in  any  ice.  Cut  the  ice  in  even  blocks, 
and  pack  it  as  closely  as  possible,  filling  all  crevices  with  sawdust,  and  when  the 
ice  is  all  stored  spread  12  or  15  inches  of  sawdust  on  the  top.  Do  not  allow  any 
openings  for  drafts.  The  ice  will  cool  the  air  surrounding  it,  and  if  that  is  carried 
away  and  warm  air  comes  in  to  fill  its  place,  it  will  hasten  the  melting  of  the  ice; 
also  when  taking  out  ice  for  use.  cover  the  openings  which  are  formed  with  saw- 
dust, so  that  none  will  be  left  exposed  to  the  air.  By  this  simple  plan  families  in 
the  country  and  villages  can  lay  in  a  year's  supply  of  ice  at  a  very  slight  expense. 

Hints  About  Ice.— Ice  should  only  be  cut  from  clear  streams  and  ponds  in 
which  the  water  is  fresh  and  pure.  The  poisonous  properties  and  living  organ- 
isms contained  in  impure  water  are  not  destroyed  by  freezing,  although  many 
people  erroneously  think  they  are.  Much  of  the  ice  sold  in  our  cities  and  towns 
is  utterly  unfit  for  drinking  purposes  because  of  these  contaminations  which 
often  endanger  the  health.    Always  rinse  ice  well  before  sending  it  to  the  table. 

To  Keep  Ice. — It  is  sometimes  desirable  to  keep  a  small  quantity  of  ice  where 
there  is  no  refrigerator.  In  that  case,  put  the  ice  on  a  dish,  cover  it  with  a  nap- 
kin, set  it  on  a  pillow,  put  another  pillow  over  it,  and  it  can  be  kept  a  week  or  so. 
Or,  wrap  it  up  in  paper — newspapers  are  as  good  as  any  kind  -  and  then  cover  it 
with  woolen  or  other  cloths.  Each  time  the  ice  is  opened,  dry  paper  should  be 
supplied.  The  sheets  can  be  dried  and  used  over  again  if  desired.  Wrapped  in 
3  or  4  thicknesses  of  woolen  cloth  it  will  keep  for  some  time  if  set  in  a  cool 
place. 

To  Cut  Ice. — Ice  may  be  readily  cut  by  tapping  it  with  a  hatchet,  or  any  sharp- 
pointed  instrument.  An  awl  will  break  ice  easily,  and  is  much  better  to  use 
than  to  batter  up  knives,  forks,  etc.,  trying  to  cut  it.  When  not  in  use,  stick  the 
point  of  the  awl  into  a  cork.  Ice  may  be  cut  into  small  pieces  of  any  shape  by 
merely  tapping  it  with  the  point  of  a  needle. 

To  Keep  Ice-Water. — Ice-water  may  readily  be  kept  a  long  time  by  putting 
cotton  batting  between  two  thicknesses  of  paper  (use  heavy  brown  paper,  or  2  or  3 
sheets  of  newspaper)  and  making  it  into  a  pail-like  covering,  large  and  deep 
enough  to  set  over  the  pitcher  and  completely  cover  it.  A  cheap  and  handy  ice 
pitcher  is  thus  readily  made. 

Freezing  Mixtures. — Ice  in  combination  with  salt  is  the  best  material  for 
freezing  ices,  etc  ,  but  when  ice  is  not  readily  obtained,  or  when  traveling,  or  for 
cooling  water  or  food  in  sick  rooms,  etc.,  where  ice  is  not  readily  managed,  freez- 
ing mixtures  are  often  very  convenient.  The  following  may  at  times  be^useful: 
(1)  Thoroughly  mix  1  part  by  weight  of  muriate  of  ammonia  with  2  parts  nitrate 
of  potash  or  saltpetre;  next  mix  and  stir  well  together  equal  quantities  of  this 
mixture  and  finely-crushed  washing  soda;  put  them  in  a  freezing  machine  and 
pour  on  as  much  cold  water  as  will  dissolve  them.  (2)  Take  equal  parts  of  muri- 
ate of  ammonia  and  nitrate  of  potash;  when  required  for  use  add  more  than 
double  its  weight  of  water.  (3)  Use  sal-ammoniac,  5  parts;  nitrate  of  potash,  5 
parts;  Glaubers'  salts,  8  parts;  water,  16  parts.  With  this  the  thermometer  can 
be  lowered  to  10°  P. 

All  freezing  mixtures  have  some  solid  substance  which  rapidly  turns  to  a  liquid,  and 
in  so  doing  it  absorbs  heat  from  the  air  or  surrounding  substances  and  so  lowers  their  tem- 
perature.   It  is  on  this  principle  that  their  value  depends. 


WELLS,    CISTERNS   AND  , WATER. 

Wells. — An  ample  supply  of  pure  water  is  of  the  first  importance  to  the  health 
of  any  family.  In  cities  and  villages  there  is  great  danger  that  the  water  in  wells 
may  be  contaminated,  and  even  in  the  country  that  is  a  source  of  danger  that 
should  be  guarded  against.  As  a  rule  deep  wells  are  safer  from  contamination 
than  shallow  ones,  but  they  may  be  subject  to  pollution  under  certain  circum- 
stances. As  to  the  least  distance  between  wells  and  cesspools  compatible  with 
safety,  while  the  London  Local  Government  Board  is  satisfied  with  20  to  30  yards 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  427 

other  authorities  insist  on  200  yards.  It  is  safe  to  say  that  cesspools  should  be 
as  far  removed  from  wells  as  possible.  Frequently  in  country  villages,  wells  and 
cesspools  are  so  intermixed  that  the  entire  bed  of  water  is  polluted,  and  then  all 
the  wells  are  unsafe.  In  isolated  houses,  if  the  well  and  cesspool  are  some  dis- 
tance apart,  pollution  will  depend  chiefly  on  the  direction  of  the  movement  of  the 
underground  water.  If  this  movement  is  from  the  cesspool  toward  the  well,  the 
polluted  water  will  How  towards  it;  if  the  movement  is  in  the  other  direction,  the 
polluted  water  will  flow  away  from  the  well.  Hence,  before  sinking  a  well  where 
sources  of  contamination  are  in  the  vicinity,  the  direction  of  the  flow  of  the  un- 
derground water  should  if  possible  be  ascertained.  It  is  not  safe  to  assume  that 
this  flow  is  in  the  direction  of  the  fall  of  the  land.  While  it  is  often  so,  it  is  not 
always.  Generally,  however,  it  would  not  be  wise  to  have  a  cesspool  higher  than 
a  well  in  its  neighborhood.  Contamination  from  surface  soakage  can  frequently 
be  prevented  by  raising  the  top  of  the  well  above  the  adjoining  ground,  and  pav- 
ing the  surface  round  the  well  with  a  slope,  so  that  the  rain-water  runs  away 
from  it. 

It  is  best  to  always  have  the  land  around  a  well  slope  away  from  it  wherever 
possible.  People  who  throw  slops  and  refuse  near  a  well  act  with  criminal  care- 
lessness— rank  poison  might  about  as  well  be  put  in  the  water.  Don't  commit 
suicide  that  way.  A  well  should  always  be  covered  over  so  as  to  exclude  all 
leaves  and  flying  matter. 

In  cities  the  public  authorities  should  supply  wholesome  water.  The  con- 
sumer should  see  that  it  is  not  contaminated  on  his  premises.  Boil  the  water  if 
there  is  doubt  about  its  purity,  as  boiling  kills  all  disease  breeding  germs,  and  is 
the  readiest  way  to  insure  safety  to  the  health.  The  water  should  actively  boil 
20  to  30  minutes  to  be  effectual — less  than  that  is  not  a  sufficient  safeguard. 

To  examine  a  well  or  cistern  reflect  in  the  sunlight  at  morning  or  evening 
with  a  good-sized  looking-glass.  If  there  are  any  contaminating  articles  present, 
like  leaves,  etc.,  they  can  be  readily  discovered  in  this  way,  and  should  be  re- 
moved. 

Carbonic  Acid  Gas  or  "Choke  Damp"  in  Wells. — This  is  heavier  than  air  and  will 
often  collect  at  the  bottom  of  wells,  cisterns,  etc.  Before  entering  them  a  lighted 
candle  should  be  lowered;  if  it  continues  to  burn  no  such  gases  are  present;  but 
if  it  goes  out,  it  will  be  dangerous- for  any  one  to  enter  until  the  poisonous  gases 
are  expelled.  To  do  this,  throw  down  a  peck  or  2  of  unslaked  lime;  as  it  slacks 
it  will  generate  heat  enough  to  start  an  upward  current  and  drive  out  the  foul 
air.  Test  it  again,  however,  before  entering.  A  few  very  hot  bricks  thrown  in 
will  often  answer  the  same  purpose,  or  some  lighted  shavings  or  paper  thrown  in 
may  answer  the  purpose. 

Recovering  Lost  Articles. — Any  small  steel  or  iron  article  lost  in  a  well  or 
cistern  may  be  recovered  by  letting  down  a  strong  magnet  with  a  cord. 

Cisterns. — The  position  of  a  cistern  should  be  carefully  chosen.  It  should  be 
where  it  can  be  got  at,  and  should  be  arranged  so  that  the  air  can  get  at  it  to 
ventilate  it.  It  should  not  be  located  where  it  will  be  exposed  to  foul  odors,  nor 
to  a  steam  laden  atmosphere. 

Linings  for  cisterns  are  numerous.  Cast  iron  cisterns  made  of  plates  bolted 
together,  if  kept  full  and-  not  subject  to  rust,  are  unobjectionable.  Galvanized 
iron  linings  are  attacked  by  some  waters  and  are  not  suitable  for  any  cistern  from 
which  the  water  will  be  used  for  drinking  purposes.  Sheet  lead  is  sometimes 
used.  While  it  cannot  be  said  that  all  water  drawn  from  a  leaden  cistern  will 
injuriously  affect  the  health  if  used  for  drinking,  it  is  not  the  best  lining  to  use. 
Some  waters  attack  lead  more  readily  than  others.  A  whitish  coating  formed  on 
the  interior  of  a  lead-lined  cistern  is  due  to  a  chemical  alteration  of  its  surface, 
and  then  the  contained  water  may  be  drunk  with  more  or  less  impunity.  In 
cleaning  out  a  lead-lined  cistern  never  scrape  the  surface,  but  merely  wash  it 
down  with  a  moderately  hard  brush,  because  the  effort  should  be  not  to  remove 
this  whitish  coating,  but  only  to  clean  it.  Zinc  is  one  of  the  worst  linings,  and 
should  never  be  used  for  a  cistern  containing  water  that  will  be  used  for  drink- 
ing. Wooden  tanks  or  barrels  should  not  be  employed  for  storing  water  any 
where  in  a  house,  as  they  become  lined  with  a  low  vegetable  growth  detrimental 
to  health.  Slate  and  stone  make  as  good  linings  as  can  be  devised,  but  are  little 
used  because  of  their  weight.  A  cement  lining  is  nearly  as  good.    A  good  cement 


428  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

to  use  is  made  of  2  parts  sand  and  1  part  hydraulic  lime.  Mix  these  together 
first,  and  then  add  the  water,  mixing  it  as  needed,  as  it  begins  to  harden  soon. 
The  coating  should  be  an  inch  thick. 

Cisterns  are  sometimes  built  with  a  brick  partition  through  the  center,  and 
the  water  being  let  into  one  part  filters  through  into  the  other.  Although  this 
does  not  make  a  perfect  filter,  it  answers  fairly  well,  but  such  cisterns  should  be 
carefully  cleaned  out  from  time  to  time. 

All  cisterns  should  be  cleaned  at  least  once  a  year. 

Do  not  build  cisterns  under  the  house,  as  the  air  above  them  will  then  always 
be  bad,  and  they  cannot  readily  be  cleaned.  On  no  account  allow  any  connection 
between  the  cistern  and  any  receptacle  of  filth;  water  is  contaminated  too  easily. 

Never  allow  an  overflow  pipe  from  a  cistern  to  run  to  a  cesspool  or  privy  vault, 
for  gases  may  thus  enter  and  permeate  the  water.  See  what  we  say  elsewhere 
about  the  absorbability  of  water.  Many  lives  have  been  thus  lost.  Filter  or  boil 
cistern  water  before  drinking  it. 

A  wooden  pump  in  a  cistern  will  soon  decay,  become  covered  with  moss 
and  collect  filth.    The  best  thing  is  an  iron  pipe,  with  the  pump  in  the  kitchen. 

The  cheapest  of  all  cisterns  are  made  by  setting  fire  to  the  inside  of  kerosene 
barrels;  assoon  as  the  kerosene  is  burned  out  and  the  barrel  begins  to  char,  turn 
the  top  down  onto  the  ground  to  smother  the  flame.  These  barrels  may  be  placed 
at  the  rear  of  buildings  under  the  eaves.  Over  each  one  intended  for  clean  water 
tie  a  square  of  cheese-cloth  with  a  sag  in  the  center;  this  keeps  out  dirt  and  mos- 
quitos.  After  being  emptied  once  or  twice,  and  refilled  by  the  rains,  the  water 
(after  well  boiling)  will  be  fit  to  use  for  cooking  purposes.  In  a  dry  time  a  lit- 
tle water  should  be  left  in  the  barrels  to  prevent  shrinkage.  In  this  way  they 
will  be  sweet  and  good  for  years — one  known  to  the  writer  has  been  used  20  years. 
(This  answers  in  the  country  where  wood  is  burned  and  there  is  little  soot,  but  is 
hardly  adapted  to  cities.) 

Water. — Testing  Water. — The  impurities  in  water  for  which  tests  are  applied, 
embrace  those  which  affect  its  character  for  drinking,  cooking  and  washing  pur- 
poses. For  cooking  and  washing,  water  cannot  be  too  soft.  For  drinking,  how- 
ever, it  should  be  moderately  hard,  as  it  supplies  much  of  the  lime  required  in 
building  up  the  bones  of  the  body.  The  chief  evil  in  drinking  water,  is  the  pres- 
ence of  organic  ferments,  by  which  are  meant  all  contamination  from  sewers  or 
drains,  decaying  matter,  etc.  The  simplest  and  easiest  method  of  neutralizing 
these  organic  ferments  is  by  boiling.  All  the  drinking  water  should  be  thus 
treated  when  such  contamination  is  suspected,  for'boiling  practically  neutralizes 
all  organic  contaminations  by  killing  all  bacteria  and  spores. 

Heisch.  gives  a  very  simple  test  for  the  purity  of  water.  He  says  that  good 
water  should  be  free  from  color,  unpleasant  odor  and  flavor,  and  should  afford  a 
good  lather  with  a  small  proportion  of  soap.  If  %  pint  of  water  be  placed  in  a 
clean,  colorless,  glass  stoppered  bottle,  a  few  grains  of  the  best  white  lump  sugar 
added,  and  the  bottle  freely  exposed  to  the  daylight  in  the  window  of  a  warm 
room,  the  liquid  should  not  become  turbid  even  after  exposure  for  a  week  or  10 
days.  If,  while  the  stopper  remains  secure,  it  becomes  turbid,  it  is  open  to  grave 
suspicion  of  sewage  contamination;  while  if  it  remains  clear  it  is  almost  certainly 
safe  for  drinking  and  all  domestic  purposes. 

Dr.  Hagar  has  proposed  a  very  simple  and  valuable  test  for  the  presence  of 
fermentable  poisonous  matter.  It  consists  in  putting  a  tablespoon  of  a  clear  so- 
lution of  tannin  in  a  tumbler  of  the  water.  If  any  gelatinous  turbidity  appears 
within  the  first  hour,  the  water  is  unwholesome.  If  turbidity  occurs  within  2 
hours  the  water  is  not  to  be  recommended.  If  no  turbidity  occurs  within  5 
hours,  the  water  may  be  considered  good. 

Test  for  Hard  or  Soft  Water.— Dissolve  a  small  quantity  of  good  soap  in  alcohol;  let  a 
few  drops  fall  in  a  glass  of  the  water.    If  it  turns  milky  it  is  hard ;  if  not  it  is  soft. 

Test  for  Earthy  Matters  or  Alkali.— (1)  Take  litmus  paper  dipped  in  vinegar,  and  if ,  on 
immersion,  the  paper  returns  to  its  true  shade  the  water  does  not  contain  earthy  matter  or 
alkali;  otherwise  it  does.  (2)  If  a  few  drops  of  syrup  he  added  to  a  glass  of  water  contain- 
ing earthy  matter,  it  will  turn  green. 

Test  for  Acid.— Put  in  a  piece  of  litmus  paper;  if  it  turns  red  there  must  be  acid  present. 
If  it  precipitates  on  adding  lime  water,  it  is  carbonic  acid.  If  a  blue  sugar  paper  is  turned 
red,  it  is  a  mineral  acid,  and  there  would  be  reason  to  suspect  poisonous  metallic  salts. 

Test  for  Carbonic  Acid.—  Take  equal  parts  of  the  water  to  be  tested,  and  clear  lime 
water,  and  pour  them  together.  If  combined  or  free  carbonic  acid  is  present,  a  precipitate 
js  seen,  in  which,  if  a  few  drops  of  muriatic  acid  is  added,  an  effervescence  commences. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  42$ 

!test  for  Iron.— (1)  Boil  a  little  nut-gall,  and  add  to  the  water.  If  it  turns  grey  or  slate 
color,  iron  is  present.  Or,  (2)  dissolve  a  little  prussiate  of  potash  and  add  it;  if  iron  is  pres- 
ent it  will  turn  blue. 

Test  for  Lime.— Into  a  glass  of  the  water  put  2  drops  of  oxalic  acid,  and  hlow  upon  it;  if 
it  gets  milky,  lime  is  present, 

Test  for  Magnesia. — Boil  the  water  to  one-twentieth  part  of  its  weight  and  then  drop  a 
few  grains  of  neutral  carbonate  of  ammonia  into  a  glass  of  it,  and  a  few  drops  of  phosphate 
of  soda;  if  magnesia  be  present  it  will  fall  to  the  bottom. 

To  Soften  Hard  Water. — Water  is  said  to  be  hard  when  it  curdles  soap.  To 
soften  hard  water  there  are  various  methods:  (1)  Boiling  water  softens  it  greatly. 
(2)  A  little  quicklime  (2  oz.  will  answer  for  20  or  25  gallons)  added  to  water  and 
allowed  to  stand  over  night  will  soften  it;  the  lime  unites  with  the  carbonates 
and  precipitates  to  the  bottom.  (3)  Put  wood  ashes  or  a  gallon  of  good  lye  into 
a  barrel  of  water;  it  will  soften  the  water  in  1  night.  (4)  Ammonia  will  soften 
water,  but  is  too  expensive  to  use  for  large  quantities.  (6)  A  boiler  %  full  of 
water  can  be  softened  by  adding  2oz.  of  sal  soda.  (6)  Dissolve  a  box  of  concen- 
trated lye  in  1  quart  of  water;  keep  it  bottled;  1  teaspoon  of  this  will  soften  half 
a  boiler  of  water.  (7)  A  little  borax  will  soften  cistern  water  hardened  by  long 
standing.    (8)  Hard  spring  water  may  be  softened  by  adding  a  little  chalk. 

The  hardness  of  water  is  caused  by  the  presence  of  certain  salts,  like  those  of  lime  and 
magnesia,  sulphate  of  lime  (gypsum)  being  the  most  common.  When  carbonate  of  soda  is 
added  it  unites  with  the  sulphate  of  lime,  forming  carbonate  of  lime,  which  settles  in  solid 
form. 

Water  for  Cooking. — Draw  your  water  for  cooking  from  the  cold  water 
faucets — never  from  the  hot  water  faucets.  For  either  drinking  or  cooking  do 
not  use  water  which  runs  through  zinc  lined  iron  pipes;  it  will  do  for  washing, 
but  that  is  all.     (See  what  we  say  elsewhere  about  galvanized  iron  ware.) 

To  Clarify  Rain-water. — When  rain-water  in  a  cistern  has  become  dark  and 
greasy  looking,  it  may  be  clarified  quite  well  with  powdered  alum  and  borax;  % 
lb.  of  each  will  answer  for  50  barrels  or  more.  The  sediment  will  settle  in  a  few 
hours. 

Charcoal  put  in  a  bag  and  hung  in  a  barrel  or  cistern  of  dirty  or  foul  smelling 
water  will  purify  it. 

"Wigglers"  in  cistern  water  may  be  easily  cleared  out  by  putting  in  a  few 
small  fish  (minnows);  they  will  eat  the  "wigglers,"  and  clear  the  water. 

To  Purify  Stagnant  Water. — Fit  a  suitable  pipe  on  a  pair  of  bellows,  and 
drive  as  much  air  as  possible  through  the  water;  then  allow  the  water  to  settle 
and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

The  Absorbing  Power  of  Water. — Few  people  realize  the  absorbing  power  of 
water.  A  pail  full  set  in  a  room,  at  the  ordinary  temperature,  will  absorb  1  pint  of 
carbonic  acid  gas;  ice-water  will  absorb  a  quart,  i.  e.  twice  as  much,  because  when 
very  cold  its  absorbing  power  is  greater.  It  purifies  the  air,  but  it  will  be  readily 
seen  that  water  is  not  fit  to  drink  after  standing  for  a  time  in  a  room. 

To  purify  the  air  in  a  room  a  pail  or  pitcher  of  cold  water,  changed  frequently, 
is  a  simple  and  valuable  aid,  and  for  the  reason  stated  above. 

Water  may  be  kept  cool  when  you  have  no  ice,  by  putting  it  in  a  jar  or  tin 
pail,  covering  it  with  coarse  wet  cloths  or  carpets,  and  putting  it  in  a  cool,  shady 
place,  where  there  is  a  breeze  or  draft  if  possible;  the  rapid  evaporation  from  the 
wet  cloths,  cools  the  water  by  absorbing  the  heat  from  it. 

Filtering  Water. — An  inexpensive  domestic  filter  may  be  made  as  follows: 
Take  a  good  common  iron  pail  to  the  tin-shop  and  have  a  hole  cut  in  the 
center  of  the  bottom  about  34  inch  in  diameter,  and  have  a  piece  of  tin  about  %. 
inch  deep  soldered  around  it  to  form  a  spout  to  direct  the  flow  of  water  in  a  uni- 
form direction.  Obtain  some  fine  stones  or  pebbles,  wash  them  thoroughly,  and 
place  them  about  2  in.  deep  at  the  bottom  of  the  pail.  On  this  put  a  sheet  of 
h.orse-hair  cloth  or  canton  flannel,  cut  to  the  size  of  the  pail.  On  this  place  a 
layer  of  animal  charcoal  about  3  or  4  in.  thick.  Any  charcoal  is  good  for  this 
purpose,  but  animal  charcoal  is  much  better  than  wood.  It  can  be  bought  at 
the  druggists.  Put  in  a  second  sheet  of  the  cloth,  and  on  this  put  a  layer  of  iron 
filings,  borings  or  turnings,  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  fine  charcoal.  The 
iron  filings  should  be  washed  in  a  hot  solution  of  soda  or  potash  before  using 
them,  to  remove  oil  or  other  impurities,  and  then  rinse  them  carefully  in  clear 
water.  The  finer  they  are  the  better.  Have  this  layer  about  6  in.  thick.  Then 
place  another  sheet  of  the  cloth,  and  on  it  about  2  in.  of  fine,  clean  silicious  sand, 


i36  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

like  that  used  by  glassmakers,  and  on  top  of  this  more  cloth,  with  a  few  pebbles 
to  hold  it  down  and  you  will  have  a  perfect  filter,  producing  a  remarkably  pure 
drinking  water.  Of  course  a  wooden  keg  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  iron  pail 
suggested,  with  a  faucet  rigged  at  the.  side  to  draw  off  the  water;  but  the  water 
should  filter  through  slowly  to  obtain  the  best  results,  and  the  deeper  the  bed  of 
iron  filings  and  charcoal  the  more  speedy  their  action  will  be.  Any  filter  what- 
ever will  in  time  become  contaminated  with  the  impurities  collected  from  the 
water— the  length  of  time  depending  on  the  amount  of  the  impurities.  For  this 
reason  the  fillings  should  be  taken  out  occasionally  (say  once  in  6  or  8  months) 
and  the  pebbles  and  sand  thoroughly  cleaned  with  boiling  water  and  soda  or  potash, 
and  then  rinsed,  and  the  charcoal  and  iron  renewed.  Because  of  failure  to  do 
this  many  old  filters  become  so  clogged  with  impurities  that  they  become  very 
filthy,  and  almost  worse  than  none  at  all.  The  value  of  charcoal  as  a  filtering 
material  is  well  known,  and  the  value  of  the  iron  consists  in  the  fact  that  it 
attracts  oxygen  to  its  surface,  which  is  changed  to  ozone^  by  which  the  organic 
matter  in  the  water  is  consumed. 

Professor  Dobroslavine,  the  chemist,  of  St.  Petersburg,  says  that  if  to  each  12 
quarts  of  water  there  are  added  8  grains  of  per-chloride  of  iron  and  12  grains  of 
crystallized  carbonate  of  soda,  it  will  cause  a  precipitate  which  will  carry  down 
all  suspended  impurities,  leaving  the  water  clear  at  the  end  of  45  minutes. 

Pure  snow  when  melted  produces  %  its  bulk  in  pure,  soft  water. 

Pumps  and  Pipes. — To  Prevent  the  Freezing  of  Water  Pipes. — In  the  winter 
the  best  way  in  cities  where  hydrants  are  used  is  to  have  a  valve  arranged  so  that 
the  water  can  be  turned  off  and  the  pipes  emptied  at  night.  Letting  the  water 
run  slowly  prevents  freezing,  but  is  wasteful.  Where  pumps  are  used  a  simple 
and  effective  plan  is  to  take  out  the  lower  valve  on  the  approach  of  winter,  and 
drive  a  tack  under  it,  so  arranged  that  the  valve  will  not  close  perfectly  tight. 
This  will  not  prevent  the  pump  from  working,  but  will  allow  the  water  to  leak 
back  into  the  cistern  or  well.  The  pump  will  have  to  be  primed  on  starting  it, 
but  that  is  easily  done.  Another  way  to  prevent  the  freezing  of  water  pipes  is  by 
having  a  small  spherical  cistern  of  thin  copper  attached  to  the  lower  part  of  the 
water  pipe,  and  a  gas  burner  fixed  below  it.  When  the  gas  jet  is  lighted  the  cis- 
tern becomes  a  boiler  on  a  small  scale,  circulating  sufficient  warmth  through  the 
pipes  to  prevent  their  freezing.  The  household  may  be  saved  from  the  winter's 
freezing  mishaps  by  this  simple  device. 

A  frozen  pump  may  be  thawed  out  most  quickly  by  putting  a  small  pipe  or 
tube  down  directly  on  to  the  ice,  and  then  pouring  in  the  hot  water  through  this 
pipe.  It  strikes  directly  on  the  ice  and  thaws  it  10  times  as  fast  as  it  would 
if  poured  into  the  pump  without  the  pipe  or  tube. 

To  thaw  out  frozen  pipes  the  readiest  way  is  to  pour  hot  water  on  cloths 
laid  over  the  frozen  part.  The  freezing  will  generally  be  found  to  have  taken 
place  at  a  bend,  or  near  a  window  or  exposed  place.  If  the  pipe  is  slightly  under- 
ground it  may  be  thawed  by  putting  a  heap  of  lime  on  the  earth,  wetting  it  a  lit- 
tle, and  covering  it  with  blankets;  it  will  draw  the  frost  out  of  the  ground  and 
thaw  out  the  water  pipes. 

Water  pipes  which  are  liable  to  freeze,  as  when  they  run  along  cold  walls,  etc., 
will  be  somewhat  protected  by  wrapping  them  with  some  non-conducting  mater- 
ial like  felt,  mineral-wool,  asbestos,  etc. 

For  a  leakage  in  an  iron  pipe,  mix  iron  filings  into  a  stiff  paste  with  vinegar. 
Dry  the  pipe  and  fill  the  crack  with  this  paste;  it  will  soon  harden  and  stop  all 
leakage.  It  will  also  securely  fasten  a  thin  iron  plate  over  a  hole  too  large  to  stop 
with  the  paste  alone.    For  other  cements  see  "Cements." 

To  prevent  the  "fur,"  i.  e.  the  scale  or  lining  crust  which  so  frequently  chokes 
up  hot  water  pipes,  dissolve  in  the  water  some  sal-ammoniac  (muriate  of  ammonia) 
at  the  rate  of  1  oz.  to  every  60  gallons  of  water  used.  Do  this  twice  a  year, 
spring  and  fall,  and  it  will  cure  the  trouble. 

Kinds  of  Pipe.— Iron  water  pipes  are  much  better  touse  than  lead.  Both  oxy- 
dize,  but  the  oxide  of  lead  is  poisonous,  and  the  oxide  of  iron  is  not.  Water  for 
drinking  should  never  be  allowed  to  stand  in  a  lead  pipe.  Tin  pipes,  or  iron 
lined  with  tin,  are  the  best  there  ai-e;  galvanized  iron  should  never  be  used,  for 
the  reason  explained  elsewhere  about  galvanized  iron  ware. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSfi.  431 

ROOFS,  DOORS,  WALKS,  ETC. 

RoofS. — Shingles  covered  with  a  wash  composed  of  lime,  salt  and  fine  sand  or 
wood-ashes,  and  put  on  like  whitewash,  will  be  very  much  more  safe  against  fire 
from  falling  cinders.  The  wash  also  preserves  against  the  effect  of  the  weather. 
Old  shingles  are  generally  more  or  less  warped  and  cracked.  This  application,  by 
washing  the  upper  surface,  restores  them  to  their  original  form  thus  closing  the 
space  between  the  shingles,  while  the  lime  and  sand  fills  up  the  cracks  and  pre- 
vents warping.  The  older  the  shingles  the  more  they  are  benefited.  A  little 
lamp-black  added  will  make  the  wash  the  color  of  the  old  shingles  and  prevent 
the  glare  of  a  whitewashed  roof. 

New  shingles  which  before  being  laid  are  dipped  in  a  wash  of  lime,  and  then 
dried,  will  be  much  more  durable,  and  moss  will  not  gather  on  them. 

When  felt  is  not  convenient  a  waterproof  roofing  may  be  made  from  old  news- 
papers, by  applying  coats  of  hot  coal  tar  to  them  with  a  brush,  and  uniting  sev- 
eral thicknesses  together. 

Small  leaks  in  roofs  may  be  stopped  with  one  of  the  waterproof  cements  given 
among  our  cements;  or  take  common  white  lead  paint  and  mix  fine  sand  in  it. 

Tin  roofs  should  be  kept  well  painted  to  preserve  them  from  rust. 

A  roofing  for  outbuildings  may  be  made  by  boiling  tar  in  an  iron  kettle,  and 
stirring  in  finely  powdered  charcoal  till  it  is  as  thick  as  mortar.  Then  spread  it 
on  a  boarded  covering  to  the  thickness  of  34  inch,  and  it  will  become  hard  and 
durable. 

Doors. — 111  fitting  doors  which  do  not  shut  tightly  but  have  cracks  around 
them  admitting  the  air,  may  be  readily  remedied  as  advised  for  the  similar  diffi- 
culty with  windows  (which  see).  The  chalk  should  be  applied  to  the  door,  which 
will  prevent  its  adhering  to  the  putty,  and  all  cracks  will  be  effectually  closed. 

Hinges  which  creak  may  be  cured  by  applying  a  little  oil  or  mutton  tallow, 
or  put  a  little  graphite  or  powdered  lead  from  a  soft  lead  pencil  on  the  spot  which 
squeaks. 

Locks  which  do  not  work  well  are  often  merely  rusted;  apply  a  little  oil  and 
they  will  be  all  right.  Latches  and  locks  should  have  a  little  graphite  or  oil  ap- 
plied occasionally,  and  they  will  work  more  easily. 

Clean  plated,  handles  and  hinges  on  doors  by  rubbing  with  a  flannel  cloth 
wet  with  kerosene  and  dipped  in  whiting;  polish  with  dry  flannel.  Clean  the 
woodwork  as  explained  elsewhere  for  painted  or  varnished  surfaces. 

Walls. — Brick  walls  should  be  hollow.  As  brick  are  great  absorbers  of  water, 
if  the  wall  is  solid  and  the  plaster  laid  directly  on  it  the  house  will  be  damp  in 
spite  of  a  housekeeper's  efforts.  Never  lay  the  plaster  directly  on  the  brick,  but 
"furr"  it,  nail  on  scantling,  and  then  lath  and  plaster  on  that  as  in  a  frame  house. 

Damp  Walls. — If  all  houses  were  built  as  they  should  be,  with  hollow  walls, 
there  would  be  little  complaint  of  damp  walls.  A  course  of  slate  cemented  into 
a  wall  while  building:,  as  soon  as  the  wall  leaves  the  ground,  or  just  above  the 
foun  iation,  effectually  prevents  all  dampness  from  rising.  It  is  a  usual  thing  in 
newly  built  houses  for  the  walls  to  exude  the  moisture  which  has  been  used  in 
making  the  plaster;  this  is  called  "sweating;"  wipe  the  walls  dry  as  often  as  it 
appears. 

(1)  The  following  simple  remedy  applied  to  stone  ivalls  will  prevent  all  damp 
from  entering,  and  any  vegetable  substance  from  growing  upon  them.  Take  1% 
lb.  resin,  1  lb.  Russian  tallow,  and  1  quart  linseed  oil;  melt,  mix  well  together, 
and  apply  hot  to  the  surface  of  the  stone.  (2)  For  brickwork  the  ''■Builder"'  gives 
the  following:  Take  %  lb.  of  mottled  soap  to  the  gallon  of  water;  apply  it  stead- 
ily and  carefully  with  a  l*rge  flat  brush  so  as  not  to  form  a  froth  or  lather;  let  it 
dry  24  hours.  Then  mix  %  lb.  of  alum  with  4  gallons  of  water;  let  stand  24 
h  rars,  and  apply  it  in  the  same  manner  over  the  coating  of  soap.  Do  this  in  dry 
wevther.  (3)  Perhaps  no  application  is  cheaper  or  more  efficacious  than  the  fol- 
lowing: Into  a  tin  or  met^lic  pail  place  1  gallon  of  benzoline  spirit;  then  melt 
D-£  or  2  lb?,  of  soft  paraffine  wax,  and  when  well  heated  pour  it  into  the  spirit,  and 
stir.  Apply  the  solution  to  the  walls  while  warm,  with  a  whitewash  brush.  To 
prevent  the  solution  from  chilling,  place  the  tin  in  a  pail  of  hot  water,  but  onno 
account  bring  it  near  a  fire  or  a  serious  accident  may  occur.  Whilst  this  is  being 
applied  the  smell  is  very  disagreeable,  but  that  soon  goes  off.  Hard  paraffine  wax 
is  not  so  good  to  use,  as  the  solution  has  to  be  kept  much  hotter, 


4.32  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Walks. — To  Kill  Weeds. — Gravel  walks,  pavements  or  driveways,  may  be  kept 
clear  of  weeds  or  grass  by  making  a  strong  brine  of  common  salt  and  water;  put 
this  in  an  ordinary  sprinkling  pot  and  sprinkle  it  on  thoroughly.  Do  not  get  any 
on  the  grass  on  the  side,  or  that  will  also  be  killed.  Or  a  dressing  of  salt  may  be 
scattered  along  the  walk  or  drive  instead.    It  is  death  to  the  weeds. 

For  garden  walks  one  of  the  simplest  and  best  things  to  use  is  common  coal 
ashes.  They  become  hard  and  make  an  excellent  walk,  while  grass  and  weeds 
will  not  grow  on  or  through  them.  An  artificial  asphalt  for  walks,  shed-floors, 
etc.,  may  be  made  by  leveling  the  place  to  be  covered,  and  then  spreading  on  a 
thin  coat  of  tar;  Over  this  sift  some  road-sand  or  coal  ashes;  let  it  harden,  and 
repeat  the  operation  4  or  5  times. 

To  hill  moss  and  earth  worms  in  lawns,  mix  equal  quantities  of  earth  or 
leached  ashes,  and  fresh  lime  (pulverized)  and  sprinkle  it  on;  it  will  kill  them. 

Lightningrods. — When  properly  constructed  lightningrods  have  been  proved 
beyond  question  to  be  a  sufficient  protection  against  lightning;  when  not  prop- 
erly constructed  they  are  worse  than  useless.  The  essentials  are:  (1)  The  rod 
must  offer  an  unbroken  conductor  from  the  apex  to  the  ground.  The  joints  are 
best  welded  together,  or  screw  both  ends  into  one  nut.  (2)  The  shorter  and  more 
direct  the  course  of  the  rod  to  the  earth  the  better;  bends  should  be  rounded  and 
not  formed  at  acute  angles.  (3)  Copper  is  the  best  conductor  but  too  expensive. 
Iron  is  generally  used.  Galvanizing  improves  it;  or  cover  it  with  black  paint, 
(itself  a  good  conductor)  as  a  protection  against  rust.  Wire  %to  %m.  in  diameter 
will  do.  (4)  The  apex  should  be  pointed.  A  coating  of  platinum  or  other  non- 
oxidizable  metal  is  an  improvement.  So  is  a  group  of  3  or  4  points.  Any  black- 
smith can  weld  the  extra  points  to  the  main  wire.  (5)  The  circle  within  which  the 
rod  is  effective  is  generally  assumed  to  be  twice  the  height  of  the  rod;  hence  on 
large  buildings  there  should  be  several  rods.  (6)  All  metallic  roofs,  tanks,  etc., 
should  be  in  good  conducting  connection  with  the  rod.  So  should  iron  water  pipes 
or  steam  pipes  within  the  building.  (7)  Fasten  the  rod  securely  in  place  with  iron 
eyes  or  staples.  Glass  insulators  are  of  little  value,  as,  when  wet,  they  become 
conductors.  (8)  The  earth  connection  is  very  important.  Nothing  is  better  than 
connection  with  the  iron  water  pipes  in  a  city.  In  the  country,  run  it  into  the 
nearest  well.  Weld  on  a  copper  end  to  withstand  the  rust,  and  let  it  go  to  the 
bottom.  Never  let  the  rod  end  in  dry  earth.  Where  a  well  is  not  convenient 
make  a  hole  6  in.  or  more  wide,  and  9  to  16  feet  long,  put  the  rod  in  the  center, 
and  pack  around  it  with  freshly  heated  charcoal.  It  will  preserve  the  wire  and 
lead  the  electricity  into  the  ground.  Any  blacksmith  can  put  up  such  a  rod. 
The  above  are  all  the  essentials.    All  fancy  fixings  in  addition  are  useless. 


HOUSECLEANING.  AND  DUSTING. 

Housecleaning  time  is  usually  one  of  terror  to  all  the  members  of  the  family — 
to  the  women  who  do  most  of  the  work,  and  the  men  who  are  made  uncomforta- 
ble during  the  process.  If  properly  managed,  however,  many  of  the  discomforts 
can  be  prevented,  and  the  work  made  much  easier.  The  first  thing  to  do  is  to 
make  ready.  Take  time  for  this — a  week  at  least.  Provide  carpet  tacks,  soap, 
disinfectants,  materials  for  making  whitewash,  etc.,  so  that  at  the  last  minute 
you  will  not  run  out  of  the  very  thing  you  need  most,  and  so  lose  both  time  and 
patience. 

Arrange  for  your  help  also.  Unless  it  is  some  one  who  has  helped  you  before 
and  knows  your  ways  it  will  be  better  to  get  a  woman  a  few  days  in  advance, 
so  that  you  can  get  her  broken  in  a  little  before  the  tug  of  war  begins. 

Do  not  start  too  early  in  the  spring.  Wait  until  you  can  let  the  fires  go  out 
without  discomfort,  and  until  there  is  settled  and  pleasant  weather.  It  is  much 
easier  to  clean  house  during  pleasant  weather;  but  no  hard  and  fast  rule  can  be 
laid  down  about  the  exact  time  to  commence,  as  the  seasons  and  circumstances 
vary,  and  the  housewife  should  adapt  herself  to  the  conditions. 

The  golden  rule  in  housecleaning  is  to  make  it  as  little  burdensome  as  possi- 
ble; and  not  to  turn  the  whole  house  upside  down  at  once.  Leave  some  rooms 
undisturbed  while  others  are  being  cleaned,  so  that  there  will  be  a  place  in  which 
to  live  comfortably ,  and  rest  in  at  times,  during  the  whole  process  of  renovation. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  433 

Having  made  ready  and  planned  for  the  work,  the  best  time  to  begin  usually  is 
on  Monday  morning.  This  comes  after  the  Sunday  rest,  and  one  feels  more  like 
beginning  a  new  campaign  at  that  time.  Try  and  do  the  work,  however,  on 
pleasant  days,  when  things  can  be  set  out  doors  and  well  aired,  and  the  windows 
thrown  open  freely. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  orthodox  way  for  cleaning  a  house  is  to  begin  at 
the  top  and  work  down,  sending  all  the  dirt  and  dust  to  the  lower  regions  as  the 
work  goes  on;  but  this  is  not  always  convenient,  and  it  is  often  best  to  clean  cer- 
tain rooms  during  the  absence  of  the  occupants.  We  prefer  to  begin  with  the 
cellar.  That  is  too  often  neglected  till  the  last,  and  then,  when  all  tired  out,  it  is 
hastily  and  imperfectly  done.  There  is  really  no  room  in  the  house  more  import- 
ant to  the  health  and  well  being  of  the  family.  Clean  out  all  vegetable  mat- 
ter with  the  utmost  care,  move  boxes,  barrels,  etc.,  and  clean  under  them,  and 
whitewash  the  walls,  having  plenty  of  copperas  in  the  whitewash  used.  (See  our 
article  on  the  cellar  for  further  hints  about  its  management.)  Then  go  to  the 
attic.  Ventilate  it  thoroughly,  and  remove  all  papers  or  other  rubbish.  Clean 
every  part  thoroughly,  sweeping  overhead,  and  then  washing  the  woodwork,  win- 
dows, etc.  Go  through  the  miscellaneous  collections  and  throw  away  or  give 
away  what  you  do  not  need. 

If  there  are  any  signs  of  moths  take  prompt  action.  They  will  probably  be 
found  in  the  cracks  of  the  floor.  Benzine  sprinkled  along  the  cracks  and  crev- 
ices is  sure  death  to  them.  The  smell  will  soon  evaporate,  but  on  account  of  its 
great  inflammability  it  must  be  used  with  great  caution,  and  never  at  all  near  a 
light  or  Are.  Then,  having  washed  the  floor  (in  washing  floors  in  any  of  the 
upper  stories  be  careful  not  to  let  water  run  through  the  cracks  to  injure  the 
ceilings  below)  and  cleaned  down  the  steps,  you  are  ready  for  the  bedrooms.  If 
the  closets  are  cleaned  out  first  they  will  be  very  convenient  to  store  things  in 
while  cleaning  the  rooms.  If  carbolic  acid  is  put  in  the  water  used  to  rinse  the 
floors,  walls,  etc.,  it  will  kill  all  bugs  or  insects.  The  smell  will  soon  disappear, 
and  it  will  leave  the  floor  and  walls  fresh  and  sweet.  In  fact,  the  more  general 
use  of  carbolic  acid  water  would  be  a  great  gain  to  most  housekeepers.  It  is  an 
excellent  disinfectant.  A  5%  solution  is  strong  enough  for  this  purpose.  Wash 
the  floors,  etc.,  first,  and  then  rinse  them  off  with  the  carbolized  water. 

Now  clear  everything  out  of  the  bedroom  which  can  possibly  be  taken  out, 
and  have  all  dust  brushed  off  the  tops  of  doors,  windows,  ceiling,  walls,  and  every 
possible  lurking  place,  whether  there  is  to  be  painting,  papering,  and  whitewash- 
ing done  or  not.  Then  thoroughly  brush  and  examine  the  mattresses  and  beds,  and 
move  them  out  of  the  room.  No  matter  how  clean  the  bedstead  may  look,  take 
it  to  pieces  and  examine  it  carefully.  In  these  days,  when  people  travel  and 
visit  so  much,  insect  pests  may  be  brought  into  the  cleanest  houses,  and  constant 
watchfulness  is  necessary.  If  there  is  the  least  sign  of  the  presence  of  any  unwel- 
come visitors,  use  freely  some  exterminator  which  will  finish  them.  It  will  not 
be  enough  to  treat  the  bed  and  the  bedstead  alone,  if  their  presence  is  found,  for 
they  will  also  infest  the  baseboards,  floor  and  walls.  After  taking  up  the  carpets 
it  is  a  good  plan  to  wash  the  floor  with  alum,  borax  or  carbolic  acid  water,  and  to 
sprinkle  powdered  alum,  borax  or  cayenne  pepper  on  the  floor  before  putting 
down  the  carpet,  as  these  are  much  disliked  by  moths  and  will  tend  to  keep  them 
away.  Lay  down  the  carpet,  turn  back  the  edges,  and  sprinkle  whichever  you 
use  along  or  under  the  edge  of  the  carpet;  then  turn  it  back  and  tack  it  down. 
The  same  plan  can  be  pursued  in  other  rooms.  The  best  methods  of  cleaning 
carpets,  furniture,  pictures,  etc.,  are  so  fully  treated  elsewhere  that  we  need  not 
further  discuss  them  here.  Having  cleaned  the  bedrooms,  the  halls  can  be 
cleaned  next,  and  then  the  parlors,  sitting  and  dining  rooms,  halls  and  kitchen. 
The  best  methods  of  cleaning  all  the  different  articles  found  in  the  home  are 
fully  explained  in  their  appropriate  places  in  these  pages,- and  the  housewife  can 
easily  refer  to  those  articles  for  more  detailed  information. 

Having  cleaned  the  house,  the  yards  and  sheds  should  receive  attention. 
Gather  up  and  burn  all  refuse  that  will  burn,  and  remove  or  bury  what  will  not; 
and  leave  no  foul  corners  untouched.  Plow  up  or  disinfect  all  spots  where  refuse 
heaps  have  stood.  Sprinkle  chloride  of  lime  in  all  damp  places,  and  dry  them  out 
if  possible.  The  germs  of  many  diseases  may  thus  be  killed,  and  much  sickness 
avoided. 


m  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Finally,  do  not  make  yourself  sick  by  overwork.  Take  some  time  for  rest  as 
you  go  along;  plan  your  work  carefully,  and  then  when  all  is  done  you  will  not  be 
completely  exhausted  and  worn  out.  Your  own  health  and  comfort  during  the 
process  should  be  considered,  and  the  work  made  as  easy  as  possible. 

Dusting. — Where  does  all  the  dust  come  from?  is  a  question  frequently  asked. 
In  all  our  cities  and  towns  the  quantity  of  dust  seems  to  be  unlimited — it  seems 
to  be  an  ever  increasing  product  of  our  civilization.  But  much  of  the  dust  is 
never  really  gotten  rid  of.  Miss  Florence  Nightingale  has  very  sensibly  remarked 
that  "no  particle  of  dust  is  ever,  or  can  ever  be,  removed  or  really  got  rid  of  by 
the  present  way  of  dusting  (with  feather  dusters).  Dusting,  in  these  daj's,  means 
nothing  but  flapping  the  dust  from  one  part  of  a  room  to  another,  with  doors  and 
windows  closed.  What  you  do  it  for,  I  cannot  think.  You  had  much  better 
leave  the  dust  alone,  if  you  are  not  going  to  take  it  away  altogether;  for  from  the 
time  the  room  begins  to  be  a  room,  up  to  the  time  when  it  ceases  to  be  one,  no 
one  atom  of  dust  can  ever  actually  leave  it  thus.  To  dust,  as  it  is  now  practiced, 
really  means  to  distribute  the  dust  more  evenly  over  the  room." 

A  layer  of  dust  is  always  unwholesome,  and  when  penetrated  by  dampness 
it  ferments,  decays  and  becomes  positively  poisonous;  especially  is  this  true  in 
damp  weather,  and  in  those  rooms  not  dried  out  by  a  good  fire.  Certainly,  for 
both  health  and  comfort,  the  rooms  can  not  be  kept  too  free  from  any  deposit  of 
dust.  But  this  can  not  be  done  effectually  with  the  feather  duster.  Bid  fare- 
well to  the  dear  old  relic,  and  supplant  it  with  the  damp  cloth.  Cheese  cloth 
makes  the  best  duster.  There  is  a  wide  meshed  kind  suitable  for  the  purpose 
which  is  as  soft  as  silk,  and  is  cheap.  It  should  be  so  slightly  moistened  as  to 
hold  no  suggestion  of  wet,  and  it  will  gather  up  and  hold  the  dirt,  not  throw  it 
out  to  float  in  the  air  and  light  elsewhere.  Go  all  around  the  room  with  this, 
omiting  nothing.  Wipe  over  the  backs  of  chairs  and  table  legs,  clean  out  open- 
worked  carving,  and  wipe  in  all  out-of-the-way  places.  A  small  paint  brush  may 
be  used  to  clean  out  cracks,  crevices,  etc.,  and  those  only.  Lift  small  articles  off 
the  table  and  dust  under  them,  instead  of  wiping  around  them.  Dust  the  walls 
and  ceilings  with  canton  flannel,  nap  outside,  and  tied  over  a  broom,  or  better, 
around  the  mop  of  a  long  handled  window  brush. 

If  the  rooms  of  the  house  are  swept  as  we  have  elsewhere  explained,  and 
dusted  in  this  manner,  nine-tenths  of  the  ever  troublesome  dust  will  be  got  rid 
of  (exterminated,  not  scattered)  and  the  rooms  will  have  a  delightfully  fresh,  clean 
and  wholesome  appearance.  It  may  seem  like  a  little  more  trouble  at  first,  but 
when  the  rooms  are  once  cleared  from  dust  there  will  be  no  desire  to  return  to 
the  old  methods. 


THE  BEDROOM  AND  BEDS. 

The  Bedroom. — If  a  house  is  well  built,  suitably  located,  and  free  from  damp- 
ness, a  bedroom  may  be  on  the  ground  floor,  although  as  a  rule  one  of  the  upper 
floors  is  better.  It  has  been  well  said  that  "a  bedroom  should  be  deaf  to  noise, 
and  blind  to  light."  It  is  not  always  possible  to  attain  this,  but  it  is  the  object 
to  aim  at.  The  glare  of  a  sunny  room  may  be  modified  by  linen  curtains,  and 
a  baize  covering  to  the  door  will  deaden  sound.  The  room  should  be  well  venti- 
lated, and  yet  free  from  draughts.  The  windows  should  open  from  the  top,  and 
there  should  be  a  fireplace  in  the  room  if  possible.  A  painted  and  varnished  wall 
is  doubtless  the  best.  It  is  non-absorbent,  and  is  easily  cleaned.  If  papered, 
let  the  design  be  free  from  any  pronounced  figures  or  striking  patterns,  which,  in 
the  half-lights  of  the  night  or  early  morning,  will  suggest  to  the  tired  brain  weird 
figures  or  mathematical  problems.  A  bedroom  should  be  light,  rather  than  dark, 
and  the  furniture  and  general  wood  work,  such  as  the  doors,  wainscoatings,  etc., 
should  be  of  light  colors.  The  latter  should  be  varnished  so  that  it  can  be  easily 
washed  and  cleaned. 

On  the  ground  of  health,  wood  carpeting,  or  a  waxed,  or  stained  and  varnished 
wood  floor,  is  doubtless  the  best.  Such  a  floor  is  non-absorbent,  and  can  be 
wiped  clean  every  day.  Rugs  can  be  placed  around,  on  which  to  step  to  relieve 
one  from  the  unpleasant  sensation  of  stepping  on  a  cold  floor,  and  are  easily  taken 
out  and  cleaned.    Mattings  make  very  desirable  floor  coverings  for    bedrooms. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  436 

They  are  free  from  dust,  can  be  easily  cleaned,  and  will  wear  for  several  years. 
They  should  be  taken  up,  the  floor  scrubbed,  and  the  matting  cleaned  at  least 
twice  a  year.  In  carpets,  light  colors  and  small  figures  make  the  most  desirable 
patterns  for  bedrooms.  One  advantage  to  a  wholly  carpeted  floor  is  that  the 
carpet  tends  to  keep  out  draughts,  and  make  the  room  generally  warmer. 

The  Bed. — The  bedstead  should  be  long  enough  for  a  tall  person  to  stretch  out 
in  comfortably  (say  Q%  feet  long)  for  a  short  bed  is  extremely  uncomfortable.  It 
should  be  easily  taken  apart,  and  the  springs  so  arranged  that  they  can  be  taken 
Out  easily  and  brushed.  The  bedstead  should  not  face  the  window,  nor  should  it 
be  exposed  to  draughts  from  the  chimney. 

The  feather  bed  is  both  enervating  and  luxurious.  It  may  do  for,.the  old  and 
infirm,  but  is  not  suited  to  the  young  and  vigorous.  A  good  hair  mattress  laid 
on  elastic  springs  is  the  best  bed.  A  light  mattress  of  this  kind  on  the  woven 
wire  springs,  is  well  exposed  to  the  air,  and,  hence,  the  most  healthy.  Wool  mat 
tresses  are  less  expensive  than  those  made  of  hair,  and  also  not  as  good.  The 
same  can  be  said  of  Spanish  moss.  Oat  straw  and  corn  husks  make  good  under 
beds,  and  they  are  cheap  and  easily  renewed.  It  is  an  excellent  idea  to  have 
mattresses  entirely  covered  with  slips  of  unbleached  calico  which  can  be  taken 
off  and  washed.  Such  a  cover  preserves  the  tick,  and  it  looks  fresh  and  clean. 
Soft  woolen  blankets  are  the  best  covering  for  a  bed. 

In  comforters,  those  made  of  delaines  are  best,  with  wool  quilted  in.  Cotton 
comforters  should  be  exposed  to  the  sun  and  air  frequently;  they  are  not  so  good 
as  those  of  wool.  All  bedding,  however,  should  be  regularly  and  frequently  aired. 
Each  person  in  the  house  should  open  the  window  and  turn  down  the  bedding 
before  leaving  his  or  her  room  in  the  morning.  This  will  give  the  bed  a  chance 
to  air  before  it  is  made  up — a  point  of  much  more  importance  than  many  people 
imagine. 

Every  bed  ought  to  be  well  aired  every  day.  Pew  people  realize  the  amount 
of  effete  and  poisonous  matter  thrown  off  through  the  pores  of  the  skin  by  in- 
sensible perspiration.  It  varies,  more  being  .thrown  off  during  violent  exercise 
than  when  at  rest,  but  from  1%,  to  4  or  5  lbs.  a  day  are  thus  thrown  out.  This, 
at  night,  is  confined  by  and  partially  absorbed  in  the  bed  clothes,  and  the  im- 
portance of  daily  opening  out  and  thoroughly  airing  the  bed  clothes  so  that  they 
may  be  cleared  from  this  poisonous  matter  should  be  evident. 

Some  mothers  teach  children  to  fold  up  and  put  away  their  night-garments 
before  leaving  the  bedroom.  A  much  better  plan  would  be  to  instruct  them  to 
spread  out  those  garments  so  that  they  would  be  thoroughly  aired.  Every  2  or 
3  days  the  bedding  should  be  taken  apart  and  well  aired.  Pillows  also  should  be 
shaken  up  and  exposed  to  the  wind. 

To  detect  dampness  in  a  bed,  warm  it,  and  then  place  a  hand-mirror  under  the 
coverings.  If  a  mist  is  observable  on  the  mirror,  and  the  vapor  is  condensed  into 
drops,  it  is  a  sure  sign  of  the  presence  of  damp. 

No  one  should  ever  sleep  in  a  damp  bed — it  is  far  better  to  sit  up  all  night. 
As  sleeping  in  a  damp  bed  so  seriously  endangers  the  health,  so  simple  an  expe- 
dient as  the  foregoing  for  detecting  dampness  is  important  to  know. 

Spare  beds,  before  being  occupied  by  a  guest,  or  any  one  else,  should  be  thor- 
oughly aired  and  dried.  Beds  left  unused  for  some  time,  often  gather  dampness 
which  will  be  dangerous  to  the  health;  therefore  open  up  the  bed,  air  it  and  dry 
it,  before  allowing  it  to  be  occupied.  In  drying  it  a  jug  of  hot  water  or  warming 
pan  will  be  useful  or  better  yet,  lift  it  off  and  place  before  a  good  fire,  turning  it 
several  times.     Change  the  sheets  also. 

When  bedsteads  creak  at  each  movement  of  the  occupant,  they  can  usually  be 
completely  silenced  by  taking  out  the  slats  and  wrapping  the  ends  in  soft  paper. 

Insects.— Eternal  vigilance  is  the  price  of  freedom  from  those  insects  so 
troublesome  to  housekeepers.  Every  spring  the  bedstead  should  be  taken  to 
pieces  and  carefully  examined  to  see  that  no  bugs  are  present.  The  best  methods 
of  exterminating  them  are  explained  under  "Insect  Pests." 

Hints.— A  well  ventilated  bedroom  at  night  will  cure  the  difficulty  which  some 
people  have  in  waking  up  in  the  morning,  when  they  struggle,  yawn,  relapse,  and 
find  it  so  hard  to  wake  up.  The  value  of  thorough  ventilation  at  night  in  a  bed- 
room can  hardly  be  over-estimated,  and  the  loss  without  it  is  always  very  great. 

A  pail  of  cold  fresh  water  left  uncovered  in  a  bedroom  at  night  will  absorb 


m  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

all  poisonous  gases.    See  what  we  say  about  the  absorbing  power  of  water  else- 
where under  "Water." 

Emptying  Slop,s. — Slop  pails  which  are  neglected  soon  become  foul.  An  ex- 
cellent rule,  adopted  by  some,  is  to  scrub  them  out  every  washday  with  the  soapy 
water  left  from  washing.  They  should  be  kept  scrupulously  clean,  and  occasion- 
ally washed  with  chloride  of  lime  or  other  disinfectant.  The  lids,  as  well  ae  the 
pails,  should  receive  attention,  and  when  not  in  use  should  be  hung  above  the 
pail,  and  not  placed  on  it,  thus  allowing  the  pail  to  ventilate.  The  one  who 
empties  the  slops  should  have  a  jug  of  hot  water  in  which  a  little  soda  has  been 
dissolved,  and  2  dry  cloths — 1  for  the  basins  and  1  for  the  chambers.  The 
chambers  should  be  scalded  and  dried  every  day.  The  cloth  used  for  the  purpose 
should  be  invariably  rinsed  well  after  use,  and  hung  in  the  air  to  dry.  The  slop 
pails  should  be  scalded  after  use,  wiped  dry,  and  kept  where  they  can  be  well 
aired. 

VENTILATION. 

It  is  only  within  the  last  few  years  that  the  paramount  importance  of  pure  air 
has  been  understood.  The  effect  of  impure  air  on  animals  is  at  once  apparent. 
For  years  the  more  delicate  animals  in  the  British  Zoological  gardens  died 
quickly,  it  was  supposed  because  of  the  cold  climate.  Their  cells  were  then  care- 
fully warmed,  and  to  every  one's  surprise  the  mortality  was  even  greater  than 
before.  At  last  the  cells  were  well  ventilated,  and  the  excessive  mortality  either 
ceased,  or  greatly  diminished.  There  are  2  objects  in  ventilation:  (1)  To  get  rid 
of  the  carbonic  acid  gas  exhaled  from  the  lungs,  which  is  poisonous;  and,  (2)  to 
furnish  them  an  abundance  of  life-supporting  oxygen.  To  be  kept  in  full  health 
and  vigor  each  adult  individual  requires  3,000  cubic  feet  of  fresh  air  every  hour. 
A  simple  test  for  the  presence  of  carbonic  acid  gas  is  given  below,  in  discuss- 
ing the  purity  of  air.  The  thing  to  be  aimed  at  is  to  change  the  air  steadily 
without  creating  a  draft,  for  drafts  will  give  rise  to  colds,  rheumatism,  etc.,  but 
far  more  complaints  are  caused  by  insufficient  than  by  over  ventilation. 

The  attempt  to  make  our  houses  as  nearly  air  tight  as  possible  in  winter,  by 
the  use  of  double  windows  and  other  devices,  is  a  suicidal  policy  unless  ample 
provision  is  made  for  ventilation  in  other  ways.  It  makes  the  inmates  delicate 
and  susceptible  to  the  slightest  change.  They  would  be  far  healthier  living  as 
our  ancestors  did  in  an  old  log  hut.  The  quality  of  the  air  we  breathe  is  quite 
as  important  as  that  of  the  food  we  eat. 

A  great  deal  more  attention  ought  to  be  given  to  this  matter  of  ventilation 
than  has  been  done  in  the  past.  In  building  new  houses  it  should  be  carefully 
planned  for;  for  the  ventilation  of  old  houses  we  can  only  offer  a  few  hints.  A 
fire  in  an  open  fireplace  is  a  fairly  good  ventilator,  and  in  dwelling  rooms,  and 
especially  in  bedrooms,  the  fireplace  should  always  be  left  unclosed,  and  the 
flue  or  damper  open  for  ventilation.  A  ready  way  to  ventilate  a  room  is  to  fasten 
a  neat  strip  of  wood  an  inch  or  two  wide  to  the  window  sill,  and  extending  clear 
across  the  window.  Fasten  a  piece  of  "weather-strip"  on  top  of  this  strip,  so  that 
it  will  form  an  air  tight  joint  with  the  lower  sash.  In  this  way  the  lower  sash 
can  be  raised  1  or  2  inches  without  letting  in  any  air  at  the  bottom  of  the  win- 
dow, but  an  opening  will  be  formed  at  the  top  between  the  2  window  sashes 
through  which  a  current  of  fresh  air  will  flow.  If  a  piece  of  wood  or  tin  be  at- 
tached to  the  top  of  the  upper  sash,  sloping  upwards,. the  current  will  be  directed 
toward  the  ceiling,  whence  it  will  diffuse  itself  through  the  room.  To  ventilate 
a  room  do  not  rely  on  getting  the  air  from  halls  or  other  rooms,  but  introduce  it 
directly  from  the  outside. 

A  ready  way  to  ventilate  rooms  which  are  much  occupied,  is  to  open  the  win- 
dows during  the  meal  time,  and  before  they  are  needed  again  they  can  be  re- 
warmed.    The  improvement  in  the  air  will  be  very  noticeable. 

Have  the  bedroom  well  ventilated  always,  and  if  no  other  provision  is  made 
leave  the  window  down  2  or  3  inches  at  the  top.  Place  the  bed  where  the  draft 
will  not  strike  it,  and  if  there  is  more  than  one  window  open  the  one  the  farthest 
from  the  bed.  If  necessary,  the  curtains  may  be  drawn  to  prevent  the  draft  from 
striking  the  bed.  More  air  will  be  needed  when  several  people  occupy  the  same 
apartment  than  when  there  is  only  one.    If  in  the  morning  the  room  smells  close 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  437 

to  any  one  who  steps  into  it  from  the  fresh  outside  air,  it  is  a  good  practical  test 
that  the  ventilation  is  insufficient;  but  if  no  smell  is  perceptible  the  ventilation 
is  good.  On  completing  the  morning  ablutions  throw  the  window  wide  open  and 
leave  it  so,  to  thoroughly  ventilate  the  room. 

Importance  of  Sunlight. — Another  important  matter  is  to  admit  the  sunlight, 
floods  of  it,  into  all  the  rooms  of  the  house  if  possible.  Even  if  it  fades  the  car- 
pets, a  little  of  that  is  better  than  to  shut  it  out  and  have  the  cheeks  of  the  children 
fade.  An  abundance  of  fresh  air  and  sunlight  will  save  many  a  doctor's  bill,  and 
what  is  vastly  more  important,  they  will  preserve  the  health  of  the  family. 

Cooling  the  Air. — In  hot  weather  wetting  a  cloth  and  hanging  it  in  the  window 
over  the  blind  will  cool  and  freshen  the  air  greatly — almost  as  much  as  a  shower. 
A  large  sponge  hung  in  a  room  and  kept  continually  wet  will  also  cool  the  air, 
either  in  the  day  or  night. 

Impurities  in  the  Air. — The  principal  contaminations  of  air  are  the  presence 
of  poisonous  gases  due  to  sewers,  etc.,  and  the  presence  of  carbonic  acid  gas  in 
excess.  Wholesome  air  does  not  contain  above  5  volumes  of  carbonic  acid  in 
10,000;  as  the  proportion  increases  the  quality  of  the  air  deteriorates,  until  it 
becomes  positively  poisonous.  Tests.  The  simplest  method  of  testing  the  amount 
of  carbonic  acid  present  in  the  air  is  by  using  lime-water.  This  can  be  obtained 
of  any  druggist,  but  should  be  freshly  made.  When  this  lime-water  is  shaken 
up  in  a  bottle  of  air  containing  carbonic  acid,  the  acid  combines  with  the  lime, 
forming  an  insoluble  powder  of  carbonate  of  lime,  and  when  this  is  in  sufficient 
quantity  it  makes  the  water  turbid  or  milky,  so  that  it  can  be  recognized  by  the 
eye.  The  test  is  made  by  having  a  series  of  bottles  of  various  sizes,  filling  them 
with  the  air  to  be  tested,  placing  a  large  tablespoon  of  the  lime-water  in  each 
one,  corking  tightly,  and  then  shaking  them  vigorously  for  3  or  4  minutes,  so 
that  all  the  air  in  the  bottle  shall  be  brought  in  contact  with  the  lime-water,  and 
all  the  carbonic  acid  taken  up  by  the  lime.  In  bottles  of  large  size  the  fluid  will 
become  dense,  while  in  those  of  small  size  it  will  remain  clear.  If  a  10  oz.  bottle, 
thus  shaken  becomes  turbid  it  indicates  the  presence  of  more  than  6  volumes  of 
carbonic  acid  per  10,000  of  air;  while  turbidity  in  an  8  oz.  bottle  indicates  more 
than  8  volumes;  in  a  6  oz.  bottle  more  than  11  volumes;  and  in  a  4  oz.  bottle 
more  than  15  volumes.  Anything  over  5  volumes  should  be  corrected.  There  is 
no  test  paper  which  can  be  made  practically  useful  to  indicate  the  quantity  of 
carbonic  acid  in  the  air. 

Pure  air  is  so  very  essential  to  health  that  impure  air  should  never  be 
breathed  when  possible  to  avoid  it. 

Seiver  gas  is  usually  manifested  by  its  peculiar  cabbage  like  odor.  The  follow- 
ing is,  however,  a  ready  test  for  it:  Saturate  unglazed  or  blotting  paper  with  a 
solution  made  of  1  oz.  pure  lead  acetate,  in  3^  pint  of  rain  water;  let  it  partially 
dry  and  then  expose  it  in  the  room  suspected  of  containing  sewer  gas.  The  test 
paper  will  be  blackened  if  any  considerable  quantity  is  present.  Never  neglect 
escaping  sewer  gas;  if  present,  find  the  leak  and  stop  it  at  once.  For  a  test  for 
leaking  sewer  pipes  see  "Sinks  and  Drains." 


DISINFECTANTS  AND   DEODORIZERS- 

The  importance  and  value  of  disinfection  is  becoming  more  apparent  every 
year,  and  all  housekeepers  should  know  something  about  the  various  articles 
employed  for  this  purpose,  their  value,  and  the  uses  to  which  they  are  adapted. 
We  mention  below  the  more  important  ones  and  explain  their  different  merits. 
It  should  be  remembered,  however,  that  nothing  will  take  the  place  of  those  best 
of  all  disinfectants,  sunlight,  fresh  air,  soap  and  water,  and  perfect  cleanliness. 
Popularly  the  word  disinfectant  is  used  in  a  very  loose  way.  Any  articles  which 
destroy  bad  odors,  or  which  arrest  decomposition  or  putrefaction  are  generally 
called  disinfectants,  and  are  often  ignorantly  used  to  destroy  the  disease  germs 
of  small-pox,  cholera,  etc.  It  should  be  understood  that  many  valuable  deodor- 
izers and  antiseptics  are  utterly  valuless  for  destroying  disease  germs.  Strictly 
speaking  disinfectants  are  agents  which  destroy  the  germs  of  communicable 
diseases,  such  as  cholera,  small -pox,  etc.  Antiseptics  are  drugs,  which  destroy 
low  forms  of  life  like  the  bacteria  which  cause  decomposition.  Deodorizers  or 
deodorants  are  agents  which  destroy  disagreeable  smells  merely. 


438  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Among  the  best  of  the  true  disinfectants  are  fire;  boiling  water;  steam  (it 
should  have  at  least  25  lbs.  pressure);  a  solution  of  chloride  of  lime;  bichloride 
of  mercury  (corrosive  sublimate);  a  solution  of  chlorinated  soda  (Labarraque's 
solution).  Others  which  are  useful  where  spores  are  absent  are  dry  heat  (as 
high  as  240°  F.);  chloride  of  zinc;  sulphate  of  copper;  carbolic  acid.  Remember 
in  using  any  disinfectant  that  the  time  of  exposure  to  its  action  is  important,  so 
allow  it  time  to  work 

Heat  and  Steam.  Heat  is  a  powerful  disinfectant.  Fire,  of  course,  destroys 
all  germs,  and  articles  of  small  value  are  often  best  burned  when  soiled  with  infec- 
tious material.  Steam  unconfined  is  the  same  as  boiling  water  (212°),  but  under- 
pressure it  is  much  higher,  being  240°  F.  at  25  lbs.  pressure,  and  250°  at  30  lbs.  press- 
ure. Exposure  for  30  minutes  to  steam  at  25  lbs.  pressure  will  destroy  all  known 
germs.  Dry  heat  penetrates  slowly  into  bulky  articles  such  as  bedding,  mat- 
tresses, etc.  If  spores  are  present  heat  enough  to  injure  woolen  fabrics  is 
needed  to  kill  them;  if  they  are  absent,  a  2  hours'  exposure  to  a  dry  heat  of  230° 
F.  is  effectual.  A  suitable  oven  is  needed.  Steam  is  suitable  for  articles  like 
blankets,  carpets,  clothing,  etc.,  which  will  not  bear  boiling,  but  is  not  suited  for 
articles  like  leather,  etc.,  which  are  injured  by  moisture. 

Boiling  in  water  for  ~%  hour  will  destroy  the  vitality  of  all  known  disease 
germs.  It  is  therefore  the  best  means  for  disinfecting  all  articles  which  can  be 
thus  treated,  such  as  bed-clothes,  towels,  the  body  clothing  of  the  sick,  etc.  If 
there  are  no  facilities  for  treating  articles  with  boiling  water  in  the  sickroom, 
they  may  with  safety  be  removed  to  another  part  of  the  house  for  this  treatment 
if  they  are  first  carefully  enveloped  in  a  towel  or  sheet,  as  the  case  may  require, 
which  has  been  thoroughly  soaked  with  carbolic  acid  solution.  Thus  enveloped, 
they  should  be  put  in  the  water,  and  boiled  for  %  hour. 

Carbolic  Acid. — This  is  one  of  the  best  known  disinfectants.  It  is  made  from 
coal-tar.  It  is  really  a  solid,  but  the  least  addition  of  water  liquifies  it.  The  gen- 
uine acid  is  easily  recognized  by  its  powerful  and  characteristic  odor.  For  dis- 
infecting cellars,  sewers,  sinks,  water-closets,  etc.,  use  1  oz.  of  the  acid  to  a  gallon 
of  water.  For  steeping  clothes  and  general  disinfecting  purposes  it  is  excellent. 
For  such  articles  1  part  in  20  of  water  will  answer.  Dr.  Koch  gives  it  the  first 
place  for  disinfecting  clothing,  excreta,  etc.,  in  cholera.  A  1%  or  2%  solution  is 
effective  for  many  germs.  Carbolic  acid  soap  is  well  adapted  for  disinfecting 
the  hands.  The  only  objections  to  carbolic  acid  are  that  its  odor  is  not  very 
pleasant,  and  that  it  is  a  deadly  poison.  It  is  also  somewhat  more  expensive  than 
some  of  the  other  disinfectants.  Carbolic  acid  when  combined  with  water  and 
boiled,  evaporates  with  the  steain  in  a  constant  ratio,  the  steam  containing  the 
same  relative  quantity  of  the  acid  as  the  water  from  which  it  evaporates. 

Charcoal. — This  is  useful  within  limits.  It  absorbs  impure  gases,  and  also 
oxygen  which  decomposes  them.  It  is  not  volatile  and  cannot  go  to  the  smells — 
they  must  come  to  it — and  it  cannot  penetrate  every  nook  and  corner  as  a  good 
disinfectant  should  do.  It  can  only  absorb  a  limited  amount  of  gas,  and  after  a 
time  it  must  be  removed  and  fresh  supplied;  or  it  may  be  purified  by  heating  in 
an  oven.  It  preserves  meat  and  poultry,  makes  a  good  tooth-powder,  is  given  for 
indigestion,  and  is  also  used  as  a  poultice  for  foul  ulcers.  It  is  a  useful  article  to 
keep  in  the  house. 

Chloride  of  Lime  (also  called  Bleaching  Powder). — This  is  one  of  the  cheap- 
est and  best  disinfectants.  For  urinals,  drains,  closets,  etc.,  there  is  nothing 
better.  The  right  strength  for  use  in  sinks,  closets,  etc.,  is  1  lb.  to  a  gallon  of 
water.  For  steeping  linen  1  oz.  to  the  gallon  is  strong  enough,  and  even  in  this 
weak  solution  the  linen  must  not  be  left  long.  It  decomposes  on  coming  in  con- 
tact with  organic  matter,  and  as  a  disinfectant  it  acts  by  giving  off  chlorine  gas, 
which  destroys  all  known  germs.  The  smell  is  not  pleasant,  although  many  peo- 
ple do  not  dislike  it.  The  powder  is  also  scattered  about  freely  where  required 
in  yards,  etc.,  but  as  the  octor  will  ruin  the  flavor  of  foods  it  must  be  used  cau- 
tiously about  the  house,  especially  in  the  cellar,  larder,  etc.,  where  food  is  stored. 
A  mixture  of  1  part  chloride  of  lime  with  8  parts  dry  sand  answers  well  for  cess- 
pools, etc.  To  make  an  effective  disinfectant  it  should  be  of  the  best  quality. 
When  purchasing,  accept  only  that  which  is  inclosed  in  glass  bottles,  as,  when 
packed  in  paper  or  wooden  boxes  it  is  liable  to  have  so  deteriorated  as  to  be 
worthless  for  disinfecting  purposes,    Dissolved  in  water  (8  oz.to  1  gal.)  it  may  be 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  439 

used  in  disinfecting  discharges  in  contagious  diseases,  especially  in  typhoid  fever 
and  cholera;  1  quart  should  be  mixed  with  each  discharge  (it  will  be  best  to  put 
it  in  the  vessel  before  it  receives  the  discharges);  after  30  minutes,  disinfection  is 
completed,  and  the  contents  may  be  thrown  into  the  water-closet;  the  expectora- 
tions of  those  sick  with  consumption  may  be  discharged  into  a  cup  half  filled 
with  this,  or  carbolic  acid  solution. 

A  home-made  chloride  of  lime  maybe  prepared  by  dissolving  a  bushel  of  salt 
in  a  barrel  of  water;  then  slack  a  barrel  of  lime  withth.s  salt  water — it  should  be 
thick  enough  to  form  a  kind  of  paste.  This  will  answer  for  disinfecting  purposes 
about  as  well  as  that  bought  at  the  stores,  and  may  be  used  freely  about  cellars, 
sinks,  outhouses,  etc. 

Chloride  of  Zinc. — This  is  the  basis  of  Burnettes'  Disinfecting  fluid.  It  is 
poisonous,  but  is  a  well-known  disinfectant  and  deodorizer.  It  is  not  expensive. 
The  strength  for  general  use  is  about  a  wineglassful  to  2%  quarts  of  water.  It 
is  useful  for  chamber  utensils,  water-closets,  etc.  Its  powers  for  destroying  dis- 
ease germs  has  been  much  overestimated,  although  it  has  been  extensively  used 
in  Europe  and  America.     It  is  a  valuable  antiseptic  and  deodorizer. 

Condy's  Fluid. — This  is  an  old  disinfectant  which  has  been  on  the  market  for 
years.  There  are  2  kinds,  the  crimson  and  the  green.  The  crimson  is  best.  It 
needs  to  be  used  in  large  quantities  and  is  somewhat  expensive.  It  stains  linen, 
but  the  stains  may  be  removed  by  steeping  the  articles,  before  they  get  dry,  in 
water  containing  1  oz.  of  sorrel  to  the  pint.  It  is  made  from  permanganate  of 
potassium.  By  dissolving  1  oz.  of  permanganate  of  potassium  in  1  quart  of 
..  water,  a  stronger  disinfectant  is  obtained  at  a  less  price.  It  is  a  powerful  oxydiz- 
ing  agent,  and  is  used  in  fevers,  etc. 

Corrosive  Sublimate  (called  also  Perchloride  or  Bichloride  of  Mercury  and 
Mercuric  Chloride). — This  is  a  most  valuable  disinfectant,  the  greatest  objection 
to  its  use  being  that  it  is  extremely  poisonous.  It  decomposes  on  contact  with 
tin,  copper,  or  lead.  It  is  colorless  and  odorless,  and  if  kept  on  hand  it  should  be 
plainly  labeled,  and  it  will  be  a  good  plan  to  color  it  by  adding  indigo  or  analine 
blue.  It  coagulates  albuminous  materials,  which  somewhat  interferes  with  its 
value  as  a  disinfectant. 

The  concentrated  solution  has  4  oz.  mercury  to  1  gallon  of  water.  It  has  much 
potency  at  1  part  sublimate  to  500  parts  water,  or  even  at  4000  parts  water.  An 
excellent  solution  for  general  use  is  34  lb.  corrosive  sublimate  and  1  lb.  sulphate  of 
copper  to  1  gallon  of  water.  This  we  will  call  "Solution  1."  For  excremental 
discharges  put  1  lb.  (i.  e.,  2  cups)  of  "solution  1"  in  a  gallon  of  water,  and  use  1 
quart  of  this  for  each  discharge,  putting  it  in  the  vessel  before  the  discharge  takes 
place,  and  letting  it  stand  2  hours  before  emptying.  Privy  vaults  which  contain 
so  much  material,  believed  to  be  infected  with  the  germs  of  typhoid  fever  or 
cholera,  that  the  disinfection  by  chloride  of  lime  would  be  impracticable,  may  be 
disinfected  by  using  1  oz.  of  sublimate  to  1  gallon  of  water,  which  will  disinfect 
4  gallons  of  infected  excremental  matter. 

The  time  of  contact  is  important,  so  let  it  act  for  2  or  3  hours.  It  is  an  anti- 
septic at  1  part  sublimate  to  15,000  parts  water.  Corrosive  sublimate  if  allowed 
to  come  in  contact  with  lead  pipes  will  make  them  brittle  and  worthless.  It 
should  be  kept  in  glass  or  glazed  vessels. 

Sanitas. — This  is  a  disinfectant  made  by  the  action  of  super-heated  steam  on 
turpentine.  It  is  largely  used  on  board  ship  and  is  popular  on  account  of  its 
pleasant  odor.     It  is  not  very  powerful,  and  must  be  used  in  large  quantities. 

Solution  of  Chlorinated  Soda. — This  to  be  effective  should  contain  at  least  3% 
of  available  chlorine.  When  exposed  to  the  air  it  evolves  chlorine,  to  which  cir- 
cumstance its  special  value  is  due.  It  is  sometimes  spoken  of  as  Labarraque's 
solution.  If  1  part  of  the  solution  of  chlorinated  soda  is  added  to  5  parts  water 
it  makes  a  standard  solution,  and  may  be  used  for  the  same  purposes  as  chloride 
of  lime;  its  odor  is  somewhat  pleasanter  although  it  is  more  expensive.  It  may 
be  used  to  cleanse  portions  of  the  body  soiled  with  discharges  of  those  sick  with 
contagious  diseases,  or  the  hands  of  attendants  similarly  soiled.  It  does  not 
keep  well,  so  it  should  be  fresh  when  used. 

Sulphate  of  Copper  (also  called  Blue  Vitriol). — This  is  not  so  good  a  disinfect- 
ant as  bichloride  of  mercury,  but  it  is  a  better  deodorant.  A  10%  solution  is 
valuable  for  destroying  micro-organisms  where  spores  are  absent. 


440  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Sulphate  of  Iron  (or  Green  Copperas).— The  right  strength  for  ordinary  pur- 
poses is  1  lb.  to  a  gallon  of  water.  A  mixture  of  sulphate  of  iron  and  sulphate  of 
zinc  is  sold  under  the  name  of  Lamande's  Mixture.  Strictly  speaking  sulphate 
of  iron  is  not  a  disinfectant  as  it  will  not  destroy  the  vitality  of  disease  germs, 
but  it  is  a  valuable  antiseptic  and  arrests  putrefactive  decomposition.  It  is 
cheap  and  is  valuable  for  sinks,  drains,  closets,  etc.  Copperas  is  not  an  effective 
remedy  against  the  spread  of  contagious  diseases,  like  true  disinfectants,  its 
most  valuable  applications  being  those  already  indicated. 

Sulphate  of  Zinc. — This  is  commonly  called  white  vitriol,  and  is  obtained  by 
dissolving  zinc  in  dilute  sulphuric  acid.  For  purposes  of  disinfection  dissolve  1% 
lbs.  of  the  sulphate  of  zinc  and  %  lb.  of  common  salt  in  6  gallons  of  water.  Use- 
ful for  water-closets,  etc. 

Sulphurous  Acid  Ctas  (also  called  Sulphur  Dioxide). — This  is  a  useful  disin- 
fectant and  is  always  available.  It  is  made  by  burning  sulphur.  Its  disinfecting 
power  is  much  increased  by  the  presence  of  moisture.  A  room  or  a  house  may 
be  filled  with  the  gas  so  that  every  article  is  subject  to  its  influence.  It  escapes 
more  readily  than  is  generally  supposed,  through  every  crack  and  crevice,  and  in- 
fectious material  enclosed  in  bundles,  or  protected  by  the  folds  of  blankets,  etc., 
may  escape  disinfection  unless  care  is  taken.  It  quickly  rusts  brass  and  iron 
work  and  tarnishes  picture  frames,  silverware,  etc.,  but  this  can  be  guarded 
against  by  removing  them  from  the  room.  It  is  valuable  for  disinfecting  after 
smallpox,  scarlet  fever,  yellow  fever,  diphtheria,  etc. 

Thymol. — This  is  a  comparatively  new  antiseptic  obtained  from  the  juice  of 
several  aromatic  plants,  and  its  odor  is  pleasant.  It  is  sold  in  crystals  which  are 
freely  soluble  in  water,  or  the  spirits  of  thymol  may  be  bought.  It  is  very  active, 
may  be  used  for  the  same  disinfectant  purposes  as  carbolic  acid,  and  is  quite  as 
effective,  and  its  pleasant  odor  commends  it.  Use  about  1  teaspoon  of  the  spirits 
of  thymol  to  2  quarts  of  water. 

A  Saturated  Solution  of  Chloride  of  Lead. — This  makes  an  excellent  anti- 
septic and  deodorant,  and  may  easily  be  prepared  as  follows:  Dissolve  %  drachm 
of  nitrate  of  lead  in  1  pint  of  boiling  water ;  also  dissolve  2  drachms  of  common 
salt  in  a  pail  of  cold  water;  when  dissolved,  mix  the  2  together;  when  settled,  a 
pail  of  clear  fluid  will  remain.  It  is  without  smell,  and  may  be  used  to  disinfect 
water-closets,  heaps  of  refuse,  drains,  sinks,  decaying  and  offensive  objects,  etc.; 
the  fetid  atmosphere  in  a  room  may  be  sweetened  at  once  by  hanging  up  cloths 
saturated  with  the  solution.  If  used  hot  the  mixture  is  more  active.  It  is  quite 
cheap,  as  a  number  of  barrels  of  the  solution  may  be  prepared  from  a  single 
pound  of  the  nitrate. 

Privies,  Yards,  Etc. — Eckstein,  after  extensive  experiments,  found  that  the 
most  effective  disinfectant  for  urinals,  privies,  etc.,  was  chloride  of  lime  (bleach- 
ing powder).  Its  odor  is  unpleasant  to  many,  and  for  common  use  (when  conta- 
gious diseases  are  not  present)  copperas  or  carbolic  acid  answer  well.  Cellars, 
yards,  stables,  gutters,  privies,  cesspools,  water-closets,  drains,  sewers,  etc.,  should 
be  frequently  and  liberally  treated  with  chloride  of  lime  or  copperas  (sulphate  of 
iron)  solution.  Another  good  solution  for  this  purpose  is  the  chloride  of  lead 
previously  mentioned.  After  contagious  diseases  like  typhoid  fever,  cholera,  etc., 
use  chloride  of  lime  or  bichloride  of  mercury,  as  at  such  times  the  most  powerful 
disinfectants  should  be  used. 

The  best  way  to  disinfect  a  room  after  any  contagious  disease,  is  to  burn  sul- 
phur. Mix  equal  quantities  of  sulphur  and  charcoal,  and  paste  strips  of 
paper  over  all  key  holes  and  cracks  about  the  doors,  windows,  etc.  Put 
a  dish-pan  on  the  floor,  a  plate  in  the  pan,  and  on  this  set  a  kettle  containing  the 
sulphur  mixture.  Use  about  6  lbs.  for  a  room  12x15  feet,  and  10  feet  high,  and 
in  that  ratio  for  other  sized  rooms.  If  too  little  sulphur  is  used  it  will  do  no 
good.  Then  fill  the  pan  half  full  of  water,  pour  about  3  oz.  of  alcohol  over  the 
sulphur,  set  fire  to  it,  and  get  out  of  the  room  at  once,  closing  the  door  tightly. 
Leave  it  closed  24  hours;  the  burning  sulphur  generates  sulphurous  acid  gas, 
which  is  a  powerful  disinfectant.  Then  open  the  room  and  air  it  24  hours,  and 
the  windows  should  be  left  open  as  much  as  possible  for  a  week  or  two.  It  will 
be  best  to  repaint  the  woodwork,  and  repaper  or  kalsomine  the  walls.  Wash  the 
woodwork  of  furniture,  etc.,  with  a  2  per  cent,  solution  of  chloride  of  lime  or 
carbolic  acid, 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  441 

If  the  carpet  was  left  on  the  floor  during  the  illness  it  should  remain  until 
after  the  fumigation;  then  take  it  up,  beat  it,  and  leave  it  out  of  doors  for  a  week 
of  two.  Those  who  wish  to  be  on  the  safe  side  can  repeat  the  fumigation  a 
second  time. 

For  disinfecting  clothing,  bedding,  etc.,  during  an  attack  of  a  contagious 
disease,  or  after  recovery,  the  following  suggestions  are  offered:  Articles  of  little 
value  should  be  destroyed  by  tire.  All  clothing,  bedding,  etc.,  which  can  be 
boiled  in  water  should  be  so  treated  for  1  hour.  Other  articles  may  be  immersed 
in  a  solution  of  2  ounces  (=  1  wineglass)  of  corrosive  sublimate  "solution  1"  (see 
corrosive  sublimate)  in  1  gallon  of  water,  which  does  not  injure  cloth.  Garments 
of  wool,  silk,  etc.,  which  would  be  injured  by  immersion  in  boiling  water  or  a 
disinfecting  solution,  may  be  exposed  to  dry  heat  at  a  temperature  of  230°  F.  for 
2  hours,  or  exposed  to  the  fumes  of  steam  under  pressure  as  previously  explained. 
The  ticking  of  beds  and  pillows  should  be  dipped  in  the  bichloride  of  mercury 
solution  and  then  thoroughly  boiled.  All  straw,  husk,  or  excelsior  filling  should 
be  burned.  A  filling  of  hair  or  feathers  should  be  thoroughly  baked  in  an  oven 
or  destroyed  by  fire.  Articles  exposed  to  dry  heat  or  steam  should  be  spread  out 
so  that  all  parts  can  be  readily  penetrated.  Articles  of  wood,  leather,  porcelain 
or  metal  may  be  washed  several  times  in  a  3%  solution  of  carbolic  acid,  or  a  2% 
solution  of  chloride  of  lime. 

The  hands  and  general  surface  of  the  body  of  the  attendants  and  of  convales- 
cents may  be  washed  with  Labarraque's  solution,  or  with  a  2%  solution  of  carbolic 
acid.  The  excreta  or  discharges  from  the  patient  should  be  treated  with  1  quart 
of  a  5%  solution  of  chloride  of  lime  or  a  5%  solution  of  carbolic  acid,  or  use  cor- 
rosive sublimate  "solution  1"  in  the  cases  and  as  explained  in  our  previous  section 
on  that  disinfectant.  Articles  which  are  to  be  disinfected  by  fire  or  boiling 
outside  of  the  room  should  be  wrapped  in  a  sheet  soaked  with  a  solution  of  car- 
bolic acid  and  thus  conveyed  to  the  place  of  disinfection.  During  an  illness,  or 
on  recovery,  the  body  of  a  patient  may  be  sponged  (with  the  physician's  approval) 
with  a  solution  of  1  part  chlorinated  soda  in  20  parts  water,  which  will  aid  in 
preventing  the  escape  from  the  body  of  infectious  material.  It  will  be  a  good 
idea  to  daily  wipe  off  all  surfaces  (furniture,  walls  and  floor)  with  a  cloth  moist- 
ened with  a  2%  solution  of  chloride  of  lime  or  carbolic  acid. 

Deodorizers. — These  should  not  be  confounded  with  disinfectants,  but  in  the 
minds  of  many  people  the  difference  is  not  clearly  understood.  Deodorizers 
merely  mask  odors  by  using  perfumes,  etc.,  but  they  do  not  destroy  the  poisonous 
effluvia  and  disease  germs.  Unpleasant  odors  may  be  masked  by  burning  sugar, 
resin  or  vinegar.  Every  housewife  has  seen  rags  and  paper  burned  for  this  pur- 
pose. Carbolic  acid  sprinkled  about,  or  exposed  in  saucers  or  open  vessels,  acts 
as  both  deodorizer  and  disinfectant,  and  so  does  the  saturated  solution  of  chloride 
of  lead.  "Florida  Water"  is  refreshing  in  a  sickroom,  but  it  has  no  very  active 
disinfecting  properties.  Pinol,  sprayed  through  an  atomizer,  is  a  fair  aerial 
disinfectant,  having  an  agreeable  odor. 

The  fumes  of  newly  roasted  coffee  is  one  of  the  best  things  with  which  to 
mask  unpleasant  odors.  Even  musk,  asafoetida  and  castoreum,  may  be  overcome 
with  it.  Place  a  few  ounces  of  whole  coffee  in  an  iron  pan  over  the  fire,  or  on  a 
shovel  of  coals,  and  while  the  fumes  are  rising  carry  it  around  the  room;  it  is 
effectual. 

A  good  deodorizer  for  a  sickroom  is  vinegar  boiled  with  myrrh;  sprinkle  it 
on  the  floor  and  furniture.  Another  is  to  place  in  a  saucer  a  little  coffee  freshly 
ground;  put  a  piece  of  camphor  gum  in  the  center  and  set  fire  to  it,  letting  both 
coffee  and  camphor  burn  together.  This  is  both  cheaper,  and  better  than  pastiles. 


FLOORS  AND  FLOOR  COVERINGS. 

Wood  Floors.— Paints  like  yellow  ochre,  sienna,  Venetian  or  Indian  red,  which 
contain  mineral  colors  alone,  without  any  white  lead,  are  the  best  to  use  on  floors, 
and  the  common  practice  of  painting  kitchen  floors  with  yellow  ochre,  raw  umber 
or  sienna  is  a  very  wise  one.  Although  they  have  little  body,  as  compared  with 
white  lead  paints,  and  several  coats  are  needed,  such  paints  make  an  excellent 
and  durable  covering.    Any  color  containing  white  lead  is  injurious  to   wood 

27 


m  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

floors,  making  them  softer  and  more  quickly  worn  away.  Any  varnish  made  by 
drying  lead  salts,  when  applied  to  a  wood  floor  is  nearly  as  injurious  as  lead 
paint. 

Cleaning  White  Board  Floors. — To  keep  boards  white  it  is  necessary  to  wash 
them  properly.  Very  often  boards  which  are  unpleasantly  dark  have  had  a  good 
deal  of  work  bestowed  on  them,  but  it  has  not  been  applied  right.  The  method 
adopted  is  quite  as  important  as  the  material  used  for  scrubbing  boards.  It  is 
not  only  necessary  to  scrub  the  dirt  out  of  the  wood,  but  it  is  quite  as  important 
to  remove  the  dirt  thus  loosened;  and  for  this,  plenty  of  clean  water  is  required. 
To  loosen  the  dirt  and  then  rub  it  in  again  by  wiping  with  a  nearly  dry  cloth,  is 
a  great  waste  of  effort.  Flannel  is  best  to  use  because  it  takes  up  the  dirt,  which 
cotton  does  not.  Remember,  then,  that  to  rinse  thoroughly,  and  2  or  3  times  if 
necessary,  is,  if  anything,  even  more  important  than  to  scrub  well.  The  great 
secret  of  floor  washing  is  to  do  a  little  at  a  time,  change  the  water  often,  and  use 
plenty  of  it;  then  dry  the  floor  with  a  flannel  cloth.  Sweep  the  floor,  of  course, 
before  washing  it. 

Removing  Stains. — The  following,  if  applied  as  directed,  will  take  out  stains: 
Take  some  clean,  sifted,  white  or  silver  sand,  and  scatter  it  on  the  floor.  Dissolve 
1  lb.  of  potash  in  1  pint  of  water,  and  sprinkle  the  sand  with  the  solution.  Have 
a  pail  of  very  hot  water,  and  well  scrub  the  boards  lengthwise  with  a  hard  brush, 
and  use  the  best  mottled  soap.    Change  the  water  frequently. 

The  frequent  use  of  soap  on  wood  floors,  or  any  articles  of  wood,  darkens 
them  and  spoils  their  color.  A  mixture  of  1  part  newly  slacked  lime,  and  3  parts 
common  white  sand,  is  cheaper  and  much  better  than  soap.  It  will  remove 
grease,  whiten  the  boards,  and  destroy  all  insects.  Rinse  well  with  clean  water 
afterwards.  In  washing  boards  never  rub  crossways,  but  always  up  and  down 
with  the  grain. 

Sand  will  roughen  boards  on  which  it  is  used  unless  it  is  very  fine.  For  this 
reason  fine  wood  ashes  sifted  through  a  cheese-cloth  bag  is  better.  Soda  keeps 
wood  whiter  than  soap,  and  is  therefore  better  to  use  as  a  rule. 

Floors  which  are  in  bad  condition  may  be  washed  with  the  following:  Put 
into  a  sauce-pan  1  lb.  soft  soap,  1  lb.  of  fuller's  earth,  1  lb.  of  soda,  and  2  quarts 
of  water.  Boil  all  down  together  to  %  the  quantity.  Scrub  well  with  it,  and 
rinse  thoroughly  after  scrubbing. 

To  Clean  and  Restore  Wood  Floors. — The  following  will  be  found  useful  in 
cleaning  and  restoring  color  to  wooden  floors:  Allow  1  part  calcinated  soda  to 
stand  %  hour  in  1  part  slacked  lime;  then  add  15  parts  water,  and  boil.  Spread 
the  solution  thus  obtained  upon  the  floor  with  a  rag,  and  after  drying,  rub  with 
a  hard  brush  and  fine  sand  and  water.  A  solution  of  1  part  concentrated  sul- 
phuric acid  and  8  parts  water  will  enliven  the  wood  after  the  first  application. 
When  dry,  wash  the  floor,  and  wax  it  if  desired. 

For  Scrubbing  White  Floors,  one  of  the  best  sands  (possibly  the  best)  is  to 
heat  marble  chippings  red  hot  in  the  fire;  then  let  them  cool  and  pound  them 
very  fine. 

Unpainted  dining-room  floors,  etc.,  can  be  freshened  and  cleaned  nicely  by 
rubbing  with  fine  dry  sand,  or  with  sawdust,  which  is  better,  as  described  further 
on  for  using  sawdust. 

A  smooth  hard-wood  dining-room  floor  may  be  kept  in  condition  by  rubbing 
or  dusting  it  every  day  with  a  woolen  cloth;  if  it  is  fastened  to  a  long  handle  like 
a  mop,  it  will  be  easier,  as  it  will  save  stooping.  Lint  is  very  apt  to  be  left  by 
linen  or  cotton  cloths.    Then  give  it  a  dry  sawdust  rub  once  a  week. 

Hot  grease  spilled  on  a  wood  floor  should  have  cold  water  thrown  on  it  at 
once,  to  harden  it  and  prevent  its  striking  into  the  wood. 

For  musty  floors,  take  an  old  broom  and  scrub  on  a  strong  hot  solution  of 
chloride  of  lime.  First  scrub  them  clean,  however,  before  applying  the  solu- 
tion. 

Marks  of  whitewash  can  be  removed  by  scrubbing  well  with  soap  and  water. 
For  grease  or  oil  stains  take  34  lb.  fuller's  earth  and  34  lb.  pearlash,  and 
make  a  paste  with  about  1  quart  boiling  water;  while  hot,  spread  it  on  the 
greased  surface,  allowing  it  to  remain  10  or  15  hours  or  more.  Then  scour  off 
with  clean  water,  using  sand  if  necessary.  If  the  grease  stains  are  very  numer- 
ous, and  the  floor  very  dirty,  it  may  be  spread  all  over  the  floor,  and  left  on  2i 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  443 

hours  before  washing  off.  Or,  old  grease  stains  may  be  softened  by  soaking  them 
with  turpentine,  and  then  scraped  off. 

Ink  spots  on  floors  may  be  removed  by  scouring  them  well  with  sand  wet 
with  water,  and  a  little  oil  of  vitriol  added.  Then  rinse  them  with  strong  salera- 
tus  water,  or  pearlash  water.  Ink  stains  may  be  removed  from  unpainted  boards 
or  wood  by  using  either  strong  vinegar  or  salts  of  lemon.  Or,  dissolve  some  oxalic 
acid  in  %  pint  of  hot  water;  apply  with  a  rag,  tied  to  a  stick;  wash  off  afterwards 
with  soda,  soap  and  water.  This  will  remove  many  other  stains  also.  A  paste  of 
damp  chloride  of  lime  will  remove  ink  stains  from  boards. 

Soot  stains  on  a  wooden  floor  or  boards  can  be  removed  by  washing  the  spot 
in  sulphuric  acid  and  water. 

To  Stop  Cracks  in  Floors. — (1)  Make  a  paste  of  6  quarts  of  water,  2  lbs.  of 
flour,  and  2  tablespoons  of  alum;  boil  and  mix  thoroughly,  and  then  soak  news- 
papers thoroughly  in  the  paste  until  -it  is  all  about  the  consistency  of  putty. 
Force  it  into  the  cracks  with  a  suitable  knife.  It  will  harden  nicely,  and  be  neat 
and  permanent.  (2)  Dissolve  1  part  glue  in  16  parts  water,  and  when  almost 
cool  stir  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sawdust  and  prepared  chalk.  (3)  Mix  plaster 
of  Paris  to  a  paste  with  water  in  which  glue  has  been  dissolved,  as  that  prevents 
it  from  cracking  and  falling  between  the  boards.  It  can  be  colored  to  match 
the  boards  if  liked.  Mix  but  little  at  a  time,  and  keep  it  warm  while  using.  (4) 
Use  putty. 

Waxed  Floors.—  Never  use  water  on  waxed  floors.  Before  waxing,  if  there 
are  any  spots  remove  them  with  turpentine  or  benzine;  then  wipe  perfectly  clean 
with  a  dry  cloth,  and  apply  the  preparation  of  wax,  putting  on  very  little,  or  else 
it  will  be  sticky.  Apply  it  with  a  flannel  cloth  and  then  rub  until  it  shines  like 
varnish,  rubbing  with  rough  flannel  or  Brussels  carpet.  With  reasonable  usage 
it  should  then  last  several  months.  Any  little  spot  which  becomes  dim  should 
be  rubbed  up  with  flannel. 

Well  polished  wax  floors  can  be  rubbed  off  every  morning  with  a  large  flan- 
nel cloth,  which  is  soaked  in  kerosene  oil  every  10  days  or  2  weeks.  Shake  the 
cloth  free  from  dust,  and  using  a  stubby  broom  or  scrubbing  brush,  rub  rapidly 
up  and  down  with  the  grain — not  across  it;  the  floor  will  soon  assume  a  polished 
appearance  which  dirt  and  footprints  do  not  easily  deface. 

Waxed  floors  which  seem  sticky  and  dirty  after  many  waxings  and  long  use 
should  be  cleaned  with  turpentine,  but  never  use  water  on  a  waxed  floor. 

Stained  floors  should  be  dusted  every  day,  and  if  desired  the  preparation  of 
beeswax  and  turpentine  (given  further  on)  can  be  applied  to  them,  and  then  they 
should  be  treated  like  any  waxed  floor. 

Cleaning  with  Sawdust. — If  stained  or  painted  floors  are  washed  with  water 
the  gloss  will  soon  be  injured,  besides  which  more  or  less  moisture  is  apt  to  soak 
in,  to  their  further  detriment.  It  is  better  to  scrub  them  with  dry  sawdust.  Use 
that  which  is  dry  and  clean.  Scatter  it  over  a  space  about  a  yard  square,  and 
then  scrub  it  with  a  new,  stiff  scrubbing  brush,  the  same  as  would  be  done  with 
water.  Use  more  sawdust  and  extra  rubbing  for  spots  unusually  soiled.  When 
the  whole  floor  is  gone  over  sweep  up  and  burn  the  sawdust,  and  then  dust  the 
floor  before  laying  down  mats  or  rugs.  Unpainted  or  even  varnished  floors  may 
be  treated  the  same  way  to  advantage. 

For  Waxing  Floors. — Melt  8  oz.  beeswax  in  1  quart  turpentine;  as  the  latter 
is  very  inflammable  it  must  be  warmed  over  a  slow  fire,  free  from  blaze.  Apply 
with  clean  flannel;  then  polish  with  another  dry  and  clean  piece. 

A  Wax  Floor  Polish. — Take  12%  lbs.  yellow  wax,  rasped,  and  6  lbs.  pearlash, 
and  boil  them  in  water.  Stir  well,  and  when  effervescence  ceases,  add  6  lbs.  dry 
yellow  ochre;  then  pour  all  into  a  tin.  For  use,  add  5  pints  boiling  water;  stir 
well,  and  apply  while  hot;  polish  afterwards  with  a  large  brush,  and  wipe  with  a 
coarse  woolen  cloth. — '•'■Decorator  and  Furnisher." 

A  Hard  Wood  Polish.— Take  1  pint  of  turpentine,  5  oz.  powdered  resin,  and 
24  oz.  yellow  beeswax.  Put  them  in  a  pan,  set  them  in  a  larger  pan  of  hot  water, 
and  melt,  stirring  well  till  thoroughly  mixed.  Manage  carefully  as  they  are  very 
inflammable.  Let  it  get  cold,  and  if  thicker  than  cream  thin  down  with  turpen- 
tine. Apply  it  with  a  woolen  cloth  (having  the  floor  clean  and  dry)  and  then  rub 
hard  with  a  polishing  brush.    Finish  with  soft  green  baize. 

A  Floor  Varnish. — Take  %  lb.  of  pure  white  borate  of  manganese  finely  pov;- 


444  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

dered,  and  add  it  little  by  little  to  a  pan  containing  2%  lbs.  of  linseed  oil;  it  must 
be  well  stirred  and  raised  to  a  temperature  of  360°  Fahr.  Heat  25  lbs.  of  linseed 
oil  in  a  boiler  till  ebullition  takes  place;  then  add  it  to  the  first  liquid,  increase 
the  heat,  and  allow  it  to  boil  for  20  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  filter  the 
solution  through  a  piece  of  calico.  The  varnish  is  then  ready  for  use;  2  coats 
may  be  applied.  Add  a  final  coat  of  shellac  varnish  if  a  brilliant  polish  is  desired. 
Make  %  the  quantity  the  same  way. 

A  black  varnish  for  wood  may  be  prepared  by  taking  good  varnish  and 
mixing  in  enough  ivory  black  to  color  it;  lay  on  a  thin  even  coat.  Clean  it  any 
time  by  wiping  with  a  woolen  cloth  dipped  in  warm  water. 

Stains  for  Floors.— A  kitchen  floor  may  be  stained  by  taking  a  lye  made  from 
wood  ashes  and  adding  enough  copperas  to  give  it  an  oak  shade;  apply  with  a 
brush,  and  when  dry  varnish  the  floor.  Or  oil  the  floor  with  boiled  linseed  oil, 
applied  with  a  paint  brush;  when  dry,  varnish  it.  To  clean  such  a  floor  is  much 
easier  than  a  white  one. 

A  general  stain  for  floors,  the  color  of  which  can  be  varied  at  will,  can  be  pre- 
pared as  follows:  Take  2  parts  linseed  oil  (unboiled)  and  mix  in  1  part  turpen- 
tine; add  a  little  Japan  dryer.  This  is  the  foundation,  to  which  add  any  of  the 
pigments  hereafter  given  to  produce  the  color  desired.  Stir  in  enough  of  the 
selected  pigment  to  make  the  whole  about  as  thick  as  syrup;  set  it  over  a  mod- 
erate fire  and  bring  it  to  a  boil;  then,  for  each  quart  of  the  mixture  take  a  lump 
of  yellow  beeswax  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and,  having  melted  it,  stir  it  in  well;  then 
take  from  the  fire;  let  it  cool  10  minutes,  and  thin  till  it  runs  freely,  with  turpen- 
tine. Lay  it  on  with  a  good-sized  brush,  making  the  strokes  the  way  the  grain 
runs,  and  apply  it  freely.  When  it  is  thoroughly  dry,  varnish  the  floor,  adding  a 
gill  of  unboiled  linseed  oil  to  the  quart  of  varnish.  Polish  afterwards  at  any  time 
with  turpentine  and  beeswax  mixed.  A  little  over  a  quart  of  the  above  mixture 
will  be  needed  for  each  16  square  yards  of  floor.  The  process  is  neither  difficult 
nor  expensive,  and  any  lady  can  easily  apply  it,  with  a  little  practice. 

The  great  secret  of  staining  is  to  properly  thin  the  stain  and  apply  it  evenly 
with  a  brush.  Try  a  color  on  a  piece  of  plain  board  before  using  it,  to  make  sure 
the  shade  is  right.  Soft  woods  take  a  deeper  color  than  hard.  Of  the  pigments 
which  may  be  used  to  color  the  above  mixture,  Vandyke  brown  or  burnt  umber 
will  make  a  black  walnut  stain.  Burnt  sienna  makes  an  almost  perfect  mahog- 
any stain  if  properly  thinned.  For  cherry,  combine  red  oxide  of  lead  and  burnt 
sienna.  Raw  umber  makes  a  good  stain  for  floors,  especially  for  white  pine.  Raw 
sienna  makes  a  yellow  stain.  In  fact  the  shades  can  be  combined  and  varied  at 
pleasure,  and  several  colors  can  be  applied  to  a  single  floor,  working  out  figures 
and  pretty  designs  if  desired. 

Sizing  for  Stained  Floors.— Take  %  quart  of  cold  water  and  1  lb.  size,  and 
heat  gently  till  it  melts.  Do  not  apply  till  the  stain  is  fully  dry;  then  use  a  flat 
brush  to  lay  it  on  with.  Add  a  little  warm  water  if  it  froths  while  being  applied. 
Do  not  cover  with  varnish  till  fully  dry.  If  you  varnish  it  use  the  best,  and  lay 
it  on  with  a  flat  brush,  freely  and  evenly.    Do  not  step  on  it  then  till  it  is  hard. 

Wipe  a  varnished  floor  about  once  a  week  with  a  soft  cloth  wrung  out  of 
lukewarm  water. 

To  Ebonize  Wood  Floors. — In  1  quart  of  water  boil  1  lb.  logwood  chips  until 
it  is  colored  well.  Apply  this  evenly,  giving  a  second  coat  to  close  textured 
boards.  Let  it  dry,  and  then  apply  a  strong  solution  of  sulphate  of  iron  in  water. 
A  fine  black  results  which  can  be  sized  and  then  waxed  or  varnished. 

Enameling  Floors- — This  is  done  by  applying  several  coats  of  paint,  and  rub- 
bing the  floor  down  with  fine  glass  paper  between  each  coat.  It  is  best  done  by 
a  skilled  workman. 

Oiled  Floors. — Heat  boiled  linseed  oil  boiling  hot;  have  the  floor  very  clean, 
and  then,  using  an  old  paint  brush,  apply  the  oil,  keeping  it  hot  all  the  time.  It 
may  be  colored  if  desired;  1  tablespoonful  of  burnt  umber  to  the  quart  of  oil 
darkens  it,  while  the  same  quantity  of  yellow  ochre  will  make  it  light.  A  bad 
floor  will  require  2  coats;  even  a  very  rough  floor  will  be  greatly  benefited  by  thus 
oiling  it.  It  will  be  often  enough  in  most  families  to  oil  a  floor  twice  a  year.  It 
can  be  kept  clean  by  dusting  daily,  and  wiping  once  a  week  with  a  flannel  cloth 
wrung  out  of  warm  water.  Avoid  using  soap  on  it.  It  may  be  oil  polished  by 
rubbing  the  oil  in  with  a  rubber,  and  the  more  it  is  rubbed  the  better  it  will  look. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  445 

A  Yellow  Paint  for  Floors  can  be  made  by  dissolving  2  oz.  of  glue  in  2  quarts 
of  soft  water;  then  lift  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  2  lbs.  of  yellow  ochre;  have  the 
floor  clean  and  dry  and  apply  at  once.  When  dry,  lay  on  a  thin  coat  of  boiled 
linseed  oil.    Do  not  walk  on  it  till  thoroughly  dry. 

Hall  Floors.—  Hardwood  or  tiles  make  the  best  hall  floor.  Upon  this  a  strip 
of  carpet  or  a  rug  should  be  laid,  and  if  necessary  fastened  in  place  with  brass 
rings.  If  the  floor  is  of  natural  wood,  lightly  cover  it  at  first  with  linseed  oil,  and 
have  it  rubbed  smooth  and  cleaned  when  dry;  then  apply  a  coat  of  shellac  var- 
nish, or  polish  once  a  month  with  beeswax  and  turpentine.  If  soft  pine  is  vised  it 
will  be  best  to  apply  several  coats  of  colored  varnish. 

To  Keep  Ground  Floors  Dry. — Spread  over  the  ground,  when  building,  a  layer 
of  coal  dust  crushed  fine.  Cover  it  with  a  layer  of  sand  of  equal  thickness. 
On  top  of  this  lay  the  floor.  The  coal  dust  absorbs  the  moisture  of  the  ground, 
while  the  sand  and  floor  are  kept  dry. 

Carpets. — To  Sioeep. — For  ingrain  and  short  pile  carpets  scatter  tea-leaves 
(which  have  first  been  rinsed  in  clean  water  to  prevent  their  staining  and  are 
then  drained  well  so  that  they  are  damp,  not  wet)  over  the  carpet;  rub  them  in 
with  the  broom  first,  and  then  sweep  as  usual.  This  will  prevent  dust  and 
brighten  the  colors,  but  the  lightest  colored  carpets  may  be  stained  slightly  with 
the  tea-leaves;  they  are  best  therefore  on  dark-colored  carpets.  Old  tea-leaves 
should  be  kept  for  this  purpose  in  a  pot  set  apart  for  them.  Squeeze  the  water 
out  thoroughly  with  the  hand  before  using  them.  As  a  substitute  for  the  tea- 
leaves,  newspapers  are  sometimes  used;  put  them  in  water  till  soft,  squeeze  dry, 
and  tear  up.  Another  way  is  to  throw  on  damp  salt  and  then  sweep  thoroughly; 
or,  sweep  first,  and  then  scatter  on  coarse  salt,  or  dampened  Indian  meal,  and 
sweep  again;  or  after  sweeping  put  a  cup  of  coarse  salt  in  a  large  basin  of  water, 
and  go  over  the  carpet  with  a  clean  cloth  wet  in  it.  Either  of  these  methods 
brighten  the  colors  wonderfully.  Wiping  the  carpet  thoroughly,  after  sweeping, 
with  a  damp  flannel  cloth  wrung  out  of  warm  soapsuds,  or  water  containing  am- 
monia or  borax,  is  also  an  excellent  way  to  keep  it  bright.  Bran  is  a  good  thing 
to  sweep  with  to  keep  down  the  dust.  Sweep  with  a  short,  sharp  stroke,  without 
scattering  the  dust.    No  other  plan  is  so  good  as  burning  the  dirt. 

Thick-piled  carpets,  like  Axminster  and  Turkey,  should  be  swept  the  way  of 
the  pile  always.  In  this  way  they  can  be  kept  clean  for  years,  but  if  swept  any 
other  way  the  dust  will  enter  the  carpet  and  soon  spoil  it.  Any  carpet  swept 
against  the  grain  soon  looks  rough  and  battered. 

Velvet  pile  carpets  are  best  swept  by  using  firmly  a  hard  whisk  brush,  made 
of  cocoanut  fiber;  once  a  week  wipe  them  over  with  a  chamois  leather  dampened 
with  water  containing  ammonia. 

Another  plan,  enthusiastically  advocated  by  some  housekeepers,  is  to  do  away 
with  the  use  of  brooms  almost  altogether.  Instead  of  sweeping  they  go  over  the 
carpet  each  week  with  a  sponge  wet  in  a  pail  of  warm  water  containing  a  little 
ammonia,  and  wipe  carefully  about  2  square  feet  of  surface  at  a  time.  The  daily 
litter  they  clean  up  with  a  carpet  sweeper.  Carpets  thus  treated  last  longer  and 
look  better,  and  the  dust  in  the  room  will  be  lessened  %  at  least;  it  is  better  than 
a  bi-weekly  sweeping. 

To  Beat  Carpets. — All'  carpets  or  rugs  should  be  well  beaten  and  rubbed  with 
a  broom  before  being  cleaned.  To  beat  properly,  hang  them  on  a  stout  line, 
wrong  side  out.  The  sticks  used  should  be  pliable,  with  cloth  in  the  form  of  a 
knot  at  the  end  to  prevent  tearing  the  carpet.  After  well  beating  the  wrong  side 
turn  and  beat  the  other  in  the  same  way.  After  the  floor  has  been  washed  and 
become  thoroughly  dry,  the  carpet  can  be  relaid  and  then  cleaned. 

To  Clean  Carpets  with  Bulloch's  Gall. — Use  1  pint  to  3  gallons  of  water,  and 
add  5  oz.  pear  lash;  mix  well.  With  a  brush  scrub  about  1  square  yard  of  the 
carpet  at  a  time,  as  quickly  and  carefully  as  possible,  and  then  suck  up  the  gall 
with  a  flannel  or  sponge,  which  should  be  frequently  rinsed  in  clean  cold  water; 
then  dry  with  clean  linen  or  cotton  cloths  before  beginning  another  square.  Thus 
proceed  until  the  carpet  is  finished.  For  carpets  which  are  not  very  dirty,  or 
which  contain  delicate  colors,  this  process  is  adapted,  as  it  will  not  soil  them. 
Old  gall  will  smell,  but  by  using  fresh  gall  the  odor  will  disappear  in  a  few  hours. 
To  Clean  Carpets  tvith  Soap  Liquor. — Cut  up  a  bar  of  soap  and  dissolve  it 
over  a  fire  in  2  gal.  of  water.    Put  2  quarts  of  this  dissolved  soap  into  a  pail  of 


446  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

warm  water,  add  a  little  ammonia,  and  wash  1  square  yard  at  a  time  as  directed 
for  the  bullock's  gall  process.  In  neither  case  should  the  liquid  be  allowed  to 
soak  through  to  the  back  of  the  carpet,  but  apply  and  wipe  it  up  quickly.  Have 
the  floor  perfectly  dry  before  the  carpet  is  laid,  and  keep  a  fire  in  the  room  to 
expedite  the  drying.  Ingrain,,  tapestry,  Brussels  and  Turkish  carpets  are  all 
cleaned  the  same  way,  and  the  secret  of  the  best  results  is  in  rinsing  them  thor- 
oughly without  letting  them  become  soaked  through. 

Process  No.  3. — Another  good  way  is  to  take  1  lb.  of  soap,  %  1D-  soda,  1  oz. 
nitric  acid,  and  1  gal.  water.  First  melt  the  soap  and  soda  in  an  oven;  then  mix 
all  well  in  the  water.  With  a  clean  scrubbing  brush  wash  the  carpet  well  from 
seam  to  seam  with  this  mixture,  and  rinse  it  off  quickly  with  clean  soft  water, 
using  a  flannel  cloth  or  sponge.  Do  only  a  small  piece  of  the  carpet  at  a  time, 
and  rub  that  dry  before  doing  more. 

Process  No.  4.— Another  process  for  a  very  dirty  carpet  is  to  take  2  gallons  of 
boiling  water,  1  oz.  of  soap,  and  1  drachm  of  soda.  Apply  with  a  clean  flannel, 
rub  well,  and  then  rinse  well  with  clean  hot  water.  After  becoming  thoroughly 
dry  the  colors  are  greatly  improved  by  rubbing  it  over  with  a  flannel  dipped  in  a 
strong  solution  of  ox-gall. 

A  new  and  excellent  process  for  cleaning  carpets,  without  taking  them  up, 
is  the  following:  To  1  quart  of  warm  water  add  5oz.  of  castile  soap  cut  fine;  let 
it  boil,  then  add  2  oz.  pulverized  borax.  When  cold,  add  2  oz.  aqua  ammonia,^ 
oz.  sulphuric  ether,  ~%  oz.  glycerine,  %  oz-  spirits  of  wine.  Take  2  tablespoons  of 
the  mixture  and  put  it  in  1  quart  of  warm  water  (or  use  in  this  proportion)  and 
with  a  cloth  or  sponge  rub  the  carpet  briskly.  It  is  not  necessary  to  use  the 
liquid  very  freely,  but  a  large  amount  of  foam  or  suds  is  developed,  and  rubbing 
this  briskly  over  the  carpet  seems  to  be  the  most  effective  agency  in  cleaning  it. 
After  a  few  square  feet  of  the  surface  have  been  thoroughly  rubbed  with  the 
foam,  dry  with  a  flannel  cloth  or  sponge,  rinsing  it  frequently  in  clean  water.  Do 
not  use  the  liquid  too  freely,  or  get  the  carpet  too  wet.  This  application  does  not 
injure  the  most  delicate  colors  but,  on  the  contrary,  revives  them,  removes  grease 
spots  and  smears  of  almost  every  kind,  and  restores  the  dirtiest  carpet  to  almost 
its  original  beauty.  Besides  which  it  is  easily  applied.  The  process  is  excellent, 
and  has  been  kept  as  a  secret. 

In  cities  where  bituminous  coal  is  used  a  carpet  may  be  scrubbed  with  good 
effect  as  regularly  as  a  floor.  Sweep  the  carpet  first,  and  then  go  over  it  with  a 
very  clean  mop  or  flannel  cloth  and  clean  water,  with  4  tablespoons  of  ammonia 
to  the  bucketful.  Change  the  water  frequently.  By.  leaving  the  windows  open 
it  will  soon  dry. 

Removing  Grease  From  Carpets. — (1)  Common  wheat  flour  (or  buckwheat  if 
it  is  in  the  house)  is  one  of  the  best  domestic  applications  for  removing  kerosene, 
or  any  oil  or  grease,  from  a  carpet.  Sprinkle  it  on  at  once  and  freely;  leave  2  or 
3  days;  sweep  it  into  a  dustpan,  and  apply  more,  repeating  until  all  trace  is  gone. 
It  can  be  removed  in  this  way.  (2)  Old  grease  spots  may  be  cut  by  applying 
spirits  of  turpentine  and  leaving  it  on  several  hours;  then  rub  between  the  hands 
and  it  will  come  away,  and  the  colors  will  be  uninjured.  (3)  Lay  damp  fuller's 
earth  on  a  grease  spot,  let  it  stay  several  hours,  and  then  rub  gently  into  the  car- 
pet; then  wash  off  with  a  little  ammonia  carbonate  and  the  colors  will  be  restored. 
(4)  Make  a  paste  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  equal  parts  of  fuller's  earth  and 
magnesia.  Place  this  while  hot  on  the  grease  spot;  when  thoroughly  dry,  brush 
off.  The  grease  will  be  gone.  (5)  Make  a  thick  paste  of  fuller's  earth  with  cold 
rain-water  and  spread  thinly  over  the  greased  part  of  the  carpet;  let  it  dry  thor- 
oughly, and  then  brush  off  with  a  stiff  brush;  all  traces  of  the  oil  will  have  dis- 
appeared. This  may  be  applied  to  the  most  delicate  fabric.  If  the  first  appli- 
cation is  not  sufficient,  apply  again.  It  will  do  the  work.  (6)  If  the  stain  is 
recent,  wash  with  warm  soapsuds  and  borax — using  %  oz.  borax  to  1  gallon  of 
water;  then  rinse  with  warm  water  and  wipe  dry. 

If  soot  is  spilled  on  a  carpet,  cover  it  at  once  with  a  plentiful  layer  of  salt, 
and  sweep  all  up  together;  hardly  a  trace  of  the  soot  will  be  left.  Any  trace 
remaining  can  be  removed  by  washing  the  spot  with  soap  and  ammonia. 

Ink  Stains  on  Carpets. — When  ink  is  spilled  on  a  carpet  immediately  take  up 
all  that  is  possible  with  blotting  paper,  and  then  wash  out  what  you  can  witii 
milk,  either  sweet  or  sour;  then  sprinkle  white  cornmeal  on  plentifully  and  leave 


ALL  ABOUT?  THE  HOUSE.  Hi 

over  night;  in  the  morning  sweep  it  up,  and  not  a  particle  of  the  stain  should 
remain,  and  the  colors  will  be  bright.  For  dry  ink  stains  proceed  the  same  way, 
but  let  the  milk  soak  in  for  a  while,  and  repeat  many  times.  Or  prepare  a  solu- 
tion of  8  parts  soft  water  to  1  part,  by  measure,  of  powdered  oxalic  acid,  and  rub 
it  on;  then  wash  it  out  thoroughly  or  the  acid  will  destroy  the  cloth.  If  the 
colors  are  affected  at  all,  dry  with  flannel  and  at  once  apply  ammonia  to  neutral- 
ize the  acid;  then  wipe  dry,  and  apply  chloroform  which  will  bring  out  the  colors. 

Spots  from  sugar  or  sweets  can  be  taken  out  with  water  and  a  damp  cloth, 
as  water  will  dissolve  sugar. 

Varnish  stains  on  carpets  should  be  cut  with  turpentine  or  benzine,  and  then 
washed  carefully  with  clean  soapsuds. 

Cum  or  wax  on  a  carpet  can  be  cut  by  applying  benzine  or  alcohol,  and  so 
removed. 

For  Whitewash,  Acid  or  Discolored  Spots  on  Carpets. — A  few  drops  of  car- 
bonate of  ammonia,  and  a  small  quantity  of  warm  rain-water,  will  prove  a  safe 
and  easy  antacid,  etc.,  and  will,  if  carefully  applied,  remove  discolored  spots  upon 
carpets,  and  indeed,  all  spots,  whether  produced  by  acids  or  alkalies.  If  injured 
by  whitewash  this  will  immediately  restore  a  carpet. 

Either  paint  or  oil  may  be  removed  from  a  carpet  by  patient  rubbing  with 
chloroform.  Be  careful  not  to  inhale  the  fumes.  (See  also  the  article  on  "Remov- 
ing Spots  and  Stains,"  elsewhere.) 

If  the  colors  of  a  carpet  are  injured,  see  what  we  say  about  injured  colors  in 
the  article  elsewhere  on  "Removing  Spots  and  Stains." 

To  Lay  Carpets. — In  laying  a  carpet  work  it  the  lengthway  of  the  material. 
Nail  one  end  clear  across,  but  do  not  nail  the  sides  until  you  are  sure  it  is  fully 
stretched.  A  carpet  stretcher  is  a  great  help.  A  new  carpet  should  be  stretched 
rather  tightly,  or  after  being  walked  over  a  few  days  it  will  rub  up  in  folds  and 
wrinkles.  If  the  puckers  in  the  seams  are  unusually  obstinate  and  do  not  dis- 
appear after  the  carpet  has  been  down  a  few  days  wet  them  with  clean  cold 
water;  when  it  dries  the  carpet  will  be  smooth.  If  before  laying  the  carpet  the 
floor  is  washed  with  water  containing  borax  or  alum,  and  if  pepper,  salt,  cam- 
phor or  alum  are  sprinkled  under,  and  especially  around  the  edges  of  the  carpet, 
it  will  help  to  keep  out  insects.  Lay  down  the  carpet,  turn  back  the  edge, 
sprinkle  on  whatever  you  use;  then  turn  back  the  carpet  and  tack  it  down.  Have 
the  floor  perfectly  dry  before  the  carpet  is  laid.  Carpets  of  whatever  kind  wear 
better  if  the  floor  boards  are  perfectly  even;  also  if  laid  down  over  carpet  lining, 
paper  or  coarse  canvas.  Good  carpet  lining  is  a*protection  against  insects.  Get  the 
moth  proof  lining;  newspapers  are  the  next  best  thing,  as  the  printer's  ink  repels 
moths;  use  several  thicknesses  of  it.  If  newspapers  are  laid  under  carpet  lining, 
that  will  wear  longer.  Carpets  prepared  with  loops  on  the  side,  and  nails  in 
grooves  on  the  floor,  on  which  they  hook,  are  easily  taken  up,  and  the  plan  seems 
a  good  one.  Carpets  which  are  not  tacked  down  may,  if  they  turn  up,  be 
thoroughly  wetted  on  the  back;  when  dry  they  will  lie  flat  for  sometime,  but  the 
process  may  have  to  be  repeated. 

Stair  carpets  should  always  have  a  pad  put  under  them  at  or  over  the  edge 
of  every  stair.  Use  cotton,  paper,  or  pieces  of  old  carpet,  which  answer  very  well. 
Have  the  pad  a  little  narrower  than  the  carpet  itself.  Good  pads  will  make  the 
carpet  look  richer,  feel  softer  to  the  feet,  and  wear  twice  as  long.  If  the  carpet 
is  a  little  longer  than  the  stairs,  and  is  moved  up  or  down  a  little  each  time  it  is 
taken  up,  thus  bringing  the  wear  in  a  new  place,  it  will  last  much  longer. 

When  putting  down  a  new  carpet  it  will  be  a  good  idea  to  save  the  ravelings; 
they  may  be  very  useful  later  on  in  mending  the  carpet.  In  buying  a  carpet, 
small  patterns  as  a  rule  are  best. 

When  painting  the  baseboard,  if  2  or  3  inches  of  the  floor  are  painted  at  the 
same  time  and  the  same  color,  if  the  carpet  does  not  perfectly  cover  the  floor,  the 
gap  will  not  be  noticeable. 

Insects.— These  usually  make  their  appearance  where  the  carpet  is  folded 
under,  or  under  heavy  furniture  and  in  places  where  the  feet  do  not  tread.  With 
ingrain  and  Brussels  carpets,  on  their  first  appearance  lay  on  a  wet  cloth  and 
apply  a  very  hot  flat-iron;  the  steam  generated  kills  all  insects.  When  a  carpet 
is  not  taken  up  at  housecleaning  time  it  is  well  to  thus  steam  it,  as  that  kills  all 
eggs  as  well  as  insects.    Wilton  or  Axminster  carpets  are  better  sent  to  a  steam 


448  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

cleaner's.  If  the  wet  cloth  and  hot  iron  are  applied  to  these  it  should  be  on  the 
wrong  side,  as  the  thick  pile  on  the  right  side  prevents  the  penetration  of  the 
heat.  Either  benzine  or  alum  water  will  eradicate  insects,  and  neither  will  injure 
the  colors.  Pulverized  alum,  sprinkled  under  the  edges  and  in  troublesome  cor- 
ners, is  an  admirable  preventive.  (For  further  information  about  insects  see  the 
article  on  "Insect  Pests.") 

Hearth  Bugs. — Do  not  clean  these  on  the  floor,  but  put  them  on  a  large  scour- 
ing board.  Clean  only  a  small  part  at  a  time,  and  as  soon  as  finished,  dry  them 
quickly,  which  is  especially  important  when  the  pile  is  thick.  They  may  be 
cleaned  by  either  of  the  processes  given  for  cleaning  carpets. 

To  Clean  Sheepskin  Rugs  or  Mats. — (1)  Take  out  dirt  and  grease  spots  with 
strong  soap  liquor,  or  if  necessary  use  fuller's  earth.  For  a  thorough  cleaning, 
after  taking  out  spots  in  this  way,  dissolve  1  bar  of  soap  in  2  gallons  of  boiling 
water;  put  2  quarts  of  this  in  a  tub  or  pan  containing  about  2  gal.  of  warm  water. 
Put  the  rug  or  mat  into  this  pan,  and  thoroughly  wash  and  punch  it.  Throw 
away  this  first  liquor,  and  mix  another  lot  in  the  same  way,  and  again  wash  the 
rug;  continue  this  until  it  is  perfectly  clean.  Then  rinse  well  in  cold  water  to 
take  out  all  the  soap.  For  white  skins  only,  rinse  again  in  cold  water  in  which  a 
little  blue  has  been  dissolved.  Then  wring  out,  shake  and  hang  to  dry  with  the 
skin  side  toward  the  sun,  but  not  when  the  heat  is  scorching,  or  the  skin  will 
become  hard  and  brittle.  It  should,  while  drying,  be  shaken  frequently,  and 
hung  up  first  by  one  side  and  then  by  the  other.  (2)  Rub  oil  or  tallow  into  the 
skin  side,  and  heat  to  assist  its  drying;  then  with  soap  and  water  wash  the  skin 
in  the  usual  way;  dry  it  well,  and  wash  with  benzine.  Thus  treated,  the  skin 
remains  soft. 

White  Goatskin  Rugs. — These  may  be  cleaned  with  naphtha.  Wet  a  small 
place,  and  then  rub  with  a  soft  cloth  until  clean;  then  clean  another  small  place, 
and  so  on  until  all  is  gone  over.  Afterwards  hang  up  in  an  airy  place  until  the 
odor  is  gone.  Be  very  careful  not  to  allow  alight  in  the  room  when  using  naph- 
tha, as  it  is  very  inflammable. 

Oilcloths. — Oilcloth  is  made  from  canvas  covered  with  layers  of  oil-paint.  It 
should  be  kept  for  some  time  to  harden  the  paint,  as  otherwise  it  chips  and  soon 
wears  out.  In  buying,  get  that  which  is  as  old  as  possible — if  several  years  old,  so 
much  the  better.  That  made  recently  is  hardly  worth  buying.  The  heaviest  oil- 
cloth is  usually  the  best. 

On  buying  a  new  oilcloth  its  durability  may  be  increased  by  first  putting  on 
1  or  2  coats  of  linseed  oil,  and,  when  thoroughly  dry,  adding  1  or  2  coats  of  var- 
nish, which  should  also  dry  well  before  the  oilcloth  is  used. 

Care  of  Oilcloth. — Oilcloth  should  never  be  scrubbed  with  a  brush,  nor  should 
hot  water  ever  be  used  on  it.  Soap,  soda,  ammonia,  washing  powders  and  stiff 
brushes  all  start  the  paint  and  spoil  the  cloth,  and  too  frequent  washing  is  not 
advisable.  To  clean  it,  use  cold  water,  or  that  which  is  not  more  than  lukewarm, 
and  apply  it  with  a  large,  soft  cloth.  Dry  it  well,  and  then  sponge  it  over  with 
milk;  then  wipe  it  with  a  soft  dry  cloth  and  it  will  look  fresh  and  bright.  If 
used  sparingly,  warm  linseed  oil  gives  it  a  glossy  look,  but  applied  plentifully  it 
makes  it  sticky,  so  that  the  dust  adheres  to  it.  The  most  common  mistake  is 
using  too  much  oil.  Use  but  little  and  polish  it  well  afterwards,  thus  imparting 
a  handsome  gloss.  Few  housekeepers  realize  the  difference  between  dusty  and 
dirty  oilcloth.  Ordinarily,  after  sweeping,  if  it  looks  dull  and  dusty,  go  over  it 
with  a  dry  mop-cloth,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  it  will  look  as  bright  as  though 
washed,  and  will  wear  a  great  deal  longer  thus  treated.  Whenever  water  is 
•applied  to  oilcloth  it  should  be  wiped  perfectly  dry,  or  the  dampness  will  soon 
rot  it. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  apply  linseed  oil  3  or  4  times  a  year;  apply  but  little,  rub 
it  in  slightly,  and  polish  well  with  an  old  silk  or  flannel  cloth.  About  once  a  year 
apply  a  coat  of  good  coach  varnish.  Do  not  step  on  it  till  fully  dry.  Thus  treated 
oilcloth  will  wear  3  times  as  long  as  otherwise. 

Whenever  oilcloth  is  laid  where  it  will  be  much  exposed  to  the  sun  it  should 
have  paper  laid  under  it,  as  otherwise  it  may  stick  fast  to  the  floor. 

Oilcloth  may  be  improved  by  applying  now  and  then  a  mixture  of  ~%  oz.  of 
beeswax  in  a  saucerful  of  turpentine;  or  use  linseed  oil,  turpentine  and  beeswax 
mixed.    Be  sure  and  rub  it  in  well,  and  polish  it  off  thoroughly  with  a  dry  cloth. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  449 

Removing  White  Spots. — If  oilcloth  is  turned  white  by  setting  anything 
hot  upon  it,  put  on  a  little  spirits  of  camphor,  and  rub  it  well  with  a  dry  cloth. 

Oilcloth  Made  From  Carpet,— Take  an  old  Brussels  carpet  and  nail  it  loosely  to  the 
floor,  wrong  side  up.  in  a  large  unused  room.  Paint  it  with  a  thick  coat  of  linseed  oil  and 
burnt  umber;  let  it  dry  throughly,  and  apply  a  coat  of  good  varnish;  let  that  dry  for  a  week 
or  two  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  An  ornamental  border  of  scarlet,  green  or  blue  lines, 
maybe  added  if  desired.  Nail  it  down  closely  for  it  will  wear  four  times  as  long  as  an 
ordinary  oilcloth,  and  need  not  betaken  up  for  years.  Eenew  the  paint  and  varnish  as 
they  wear  off.    It  can  be  washed  with  milk  and  water  like  any  oilcloth. 

A  Cheap  Carpet  somewhat  resembling  oilcloth,  may  be  made  by  first  covering  the 
floor  with  cheap  cotton  cloth  tacked  down  all  around  the  edges.  Then  select  paper  with  an 
appropriate  figure,  and  paste  it  on  as  you  would  wall-paper.  When  dry,  varnish  it  2  or  3 
times,  and  let  it  dry  thoroughly.  It  should  last  2  or  3  years.  If  canvas  is  used  instead  of 
the  cotton  cloth,  then  a  layer  of  brown  paper  pasted  on  it,  then  paste  on  the  wall-paper  as 
above ,  then  apply  a  thin  size  of  glue,  and  varnish  it  with  India  rubber  varnish  (2  or  3  coats), 
a  much  better  and  more  durable  article  will  be  made. 

Linoleum. — Soda  rapidly  destroys  linoleum,  but  soap  and  grease  do  not. 
When  dirty,  wash  it  with  soap  and  water;  then  apply  equal  parts  of  linseed  oil 
and  vinegar  mixed.  This  is  the  best  thing,  and  much  better  than  milk,  which  is 
commonly  used.  Linseed  oil  and  turpentine,  mixed  in  equal  quantities,  if  rubbed 
on  occasionally,  makes  it  bright  as  new  and  improves  its  wear,  but  polish  it  off 
well  after  applying  it. 

Linoleum  is  a  preparation  of  linseed  oil,  hardened  or  oxydized,  mixed  with  ground 
cork,  and  pressed  on  rollers.  Many  prefer  it  to  oilcloth,  because  it  is  not  so  cold;  it  is  noise- 
less, and  it  is  impervious  to  damp. 

Mattings. — Straw  and  India  matting  may  be  cleaned:  (1)  By  using  warm 
water  and  salt;  use  a  soft  cloth,  dip  it  in  the  solution,  wring  it  out,  and  wipe  the 
matting,  wetting  it  only  sufficiently  to  remove  dust  and  stains.  (2)  Prepare  good 
bran-water  by  boiling  bran  contained  in  a  bag  in  water  and  squeezing  the  bag  to 
extract  the  virtue  of  the  bran.  When  moderately  hot  wash  about  a  square  yard 
at  a  time,  with  a  flannel  cloth  dipped  in  this  bran-water,  and  dry  at  once  with  a 
linen  cloth.  (3)  For  stains,  mix  lemon  juice  and  salt;  apply  it  to  the  stain,  let  it 
stand  several  hours,  and  then  wash  it-off. 

Straw  Matting. — This  should  be  fastened  in  position,  as  it  will  crack  and 
become  wrinkled  if  laid  so  that  it  can  be  taken  up  like  cocoanut  matting.  It 
should  be  dusted  regularly,  and  washed  occasionally — perhaps  twice  during  a 
season  where  not  much  used,  and  oftener  where  much  exposed. 

A  thin  coat  of  varnish  applied  to  straw  matting  will  make  it  more  durable 
and  improve  its  appearance. 

Cocoanut  Matting. — This  when  very  dirty  may  be  scrubbed  while  on  the  floor 
with  hot  water  and  soap,  then  taken  up,  loosely  folded,  rinsed  in  cold  water,  and 
hung  on  a  line  till  dry.  As  all  dirt  sifts  through  a  cocoanut  matting  it  should  be 
taken  up  once  a  week,  shaken,  and  the  floor  washed  and  dried  thoroughly  before 
putting  it  down  again.    This  is  usually  about  all  the  treatment  it  needs. 

India  matting  is  made  of  grass  fiber,  and  if  it  gets  too  dry  it  quickly  splits. 
In  hot  weather  it  should  be  washed  over  with  water  once  or  twice  a  week,  and 
left  wet,  and  the  fiber  will  absorb  moisture  enough  to  keep  it  fairly  tough.  If  of 
good  quality  it  wears  a  long  time  if  properly  cared  for. 

For  grease  spots  on  matting  apply  a  paste  of  fuller's  earth  or  pipe  clay. 

For  ink  spots  use  oxalic  acid  as  advised  for  wood  floors. 

Tiled  Floors. — Wash  ordinarily  2  or  3  times  a  week  with  soft  water,  soft  soap, 
and  flannel  cloths.  If  stained,  wash  with  a  solution  of  %  Pau  °f  s°ft  water  to  1 
pint  of  hydrochloric  acid;  then  wash  thoroughly  with  fresh  water  and  a  little 
soft  soap. 

FURNITURE. 

Hints  About  Buying. — In  buying  furniture  it  is  by  no  means  necessary  to 
buy  in  "sets,"  nor  need  there  be  any  desire  to  have  all  the  furniture  in  a  room 
"match."  The  best  taste  does  not  require  it,  and  it  often  makes  a  room  look  stiff 
and  formal.  Let  each  room  have  an  individuality  of  its  own.  Do  not  overcrowd 
a  room  either.  In  buying  furniture  select  it  more  for  comfort  than  for  show. 
You  are  fitting  up  a  home  to  live  in,  and  it  should  be  made  the  most  comfortable 
and  attractive  place  on  earth  for  its  various  members.    Also  when  you  buy,  get 


450  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

well  made  furniture  which  will  wear — it  will  be  the  cheapest  in  the  end.  Do 
not  be  afraid  of  second-hand  furniture  if  you  find  what  you  want.  Most  young 
housekeepers  regard  it  with  too  much  contempt,  while  many  old  ones  especially 
bargain  hunters,  set  too  much  store  by  it.  The  following  hints  about  buying 
furniture  will  be  of  value  to  young  housekeepers:  (I)  Do  not  buy  what  you 
do  not  need.  (2)  When  you  buy  get  the  best,  or  the  best  you  can  afford.  (3) 
Pay  cash,  or  wait  till  you  can.  (4)  Buy  single  pieces,  or  a  few  pieces  at  a 
time,  as  you  have  the  means.  (5)  Do  not  be  ashamed  to  wait  for  bargains, 
and  pick  them  up  when  they  come  in  your  way.  (6)  Do  not  buy  anything 
because  some  one  else  has,  unless  you  really  need  it  yourself. 

Care  of  Furniture. — Rub  varnished  furniture  every  day  when  it  is  dusted  with 
a  soft  silk  cloth  or  chamois  skin.  Constant  rubbing  is  belter  than  the  frequent 
use  of  furniture  polish,  which  is  apt  to  make  the  furniture  smeary.  It  must, 
however,  be  kept  clean.  To  do  this  it  is  well  to  wash  it  occasionally,  say  twice  a 
year,  at  the  spring  and  fall  housecleaning,  with  a  flannel  wrung  out  of  cold  tea, 
or  with  vinegar  and  water.  Then  polish  with  a  dry  chamois,  and  use  one  of  the 
furniture  polishes  given  further  on.  After  applying  any  furniture  polish  rub 
until  the  furniture  is  thoroughly  dry  and  shiny.  Many  people  apply  too  much 
polish,  and  they  do  not  rub  it  enough  afterwards,  so  that  a  thin  film  is  left  which 
collects  dust;  this  should  never  be. 

Painted  furniture  is  cleaned  principally  by  dusting;  if  washed  it  should  be 
done  quickly,  with  a  little  warm  water,  and  dried  at  once  with  a  soft  cloth;  or  use 
a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  whiting,  instead  of  soap. 

Oak,  polished  or  unpolished  (not  varnished),  may  be  cleaned  with  cold  tea, 
and  then  polished  with  a  preparation  of  beeswax  and  turpentine.    After  apply- 
.  ing  it,  rub  well  with  flannel. 

The  best  brush  for  the  woodwork  of  chairs,  etc.,  has  bristles  at  the  end. 

To  Restore  Dull  and  Scratched  Furniture. — (1)  One  of  the  best  things  to  use, 
because  it  gives  a  good  gloss,  restores  the  color  of  the  wood,  and  covers  scratches 
as  well  as  anything  except  a  thorough  scraping  and  refinishing,  is  a  mixture  of  1 
part  turpentine  and  3  parts  linseed  oil,  rubbed  on  with  a  flannel  cloth.  (2)  Old 
furniture  which  has  a  dull  greasy  look  should  be  rubbed  with  turpentine  and 
then  polished  with  some  good  furniture  polish.  (3)  To  clean  varnished  furniture 
a  good  plan  is  to  take  a  woolen  rag  and  moisten  it  with  spirits  of  turpentine;  it 
will  clear  the  dust  and  cloud  from  carvings  and  panels.  Then  rub  the  surface 
thoroughly  with  a  piece  of  flannel  dipped  in  linseed  oil.  (4)  Old-fashioned  house- 
keepers think  that  for  French  polished  furniture  there  is  nothing  better  than 
beeswax  and  turpentine,  rubbed  in  thoroughly  until  it  shines  like  glass. 

Cane  Chair  Seats. — These  may  be  washed  with  hot  water,  in  which  a  little 
lemon  has  been  squeezed,  until  the  cane  is  well  soaked;  leave  it  in  the  open  air 
to  dry.  Or,  beat  out  the  dust,  and  then  turn  the  chair  bottom  upwards  and 
wash  the  cane,  using  a  sponge  and  hot  water;  if  it  is  very  dirty  use  soap  also. 
Wash  thoroughly  and  see  that  it  is  well  soaked;  then  let  it  dry  in  the  open  air. 
This  method  will  make  the  canes  clean,  tight  and  elastic. 

Leather  chair  seats  may  be  revived  by  rubbing  them  with  "glaire."  (See 
Leather.) 

Chintz  on  furniture  can  be  cleaned  by  brushing  it  lightly,  then  wiping  with 
clean  flannel,  and  then  rubbing  it  with  dry  bread;  it  will  look  nearly  equal  to 
new. 

Hair  Cloth  on  Furniture. — This  may  be  cleaned  by  wiping  it  well  with  a 
clean  wet  cloth. 

Upholstered  furniture  should  be  beaten  with  small  pliable  switches  to  clear 
out  the  dust,  and  then  brushed  with  a  good  brush.  Always  clean  carefully 
around  all  buttons  and  tufts  on  the  furniture. 

i"/  moths  appear  in  upholstered  furniture,  saturate  it  with  benzine  or  gasoline. 
This  will  not  injure  any  fabric,  and  it  is  death  to  all  vermin.  It  will  soon  evap- 
orate so  that  no  odor  will  be  left. 

Dust  silk,  satin  or  leather  upholstering  with  a  soft  cloth;  anything  harsh  will 
scratch  it. 

White  spots  on  any  varnished  furniture  may  be  removed:  (1)  By  rubbing 
with  a  rag  wet  with  spirits  of  camphor,  or  with  essence  of  peppermint,  and  then 
with  furniture  polish  or  oil.    (2)  Wet  a  flannel  in  turpentine  and  then  rub  the 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  451 

spot  hard;  several  applications  may  be  needed  and  some  patience.  (3)  Hold  a 
warming-pan,  hot  stove  lid,  or  shovel  of  coals  over  the  spot;  then  rub,  while  it  is 
warm,  with  soft  flannel.  A  good  way.  (4)  Rub  with  pulverized  pumice  stone 
mixed  with  a  little  linseed  oil;  then  take  a  cotton  cloth  and  brush  the  spot  over 
with  shellac  varnish,  thinned  with  turpentine. 

Spots  caused  by  alcohol  or  anything  hot  may  be  removed  by  hard  rubbing 
with  turpentine  and  sweet  oil  mixed;  after  the  spots  are  removed,  wash  with 
lukewarm  soapsuds,  dry  quickly,  and  polish  by  briskly  rubbing  with  chamois 
skin. 

Finger  marks  on  varnished  furniture  may  be  removed  by  rubbing  the  spot 
with  sweet  oil;  on  oiled  furniture  rub  them  with  kerosene. 

Dark  Stains  on  Furniture.  —These  may  often  be  removed  with  a  little  oxalic 
acid  and  water,  rubbed  on  hard  and  diligently  with  a  cork;  wash  the  place  after- 
wards with  clear  water,  dry,  and  polish  in  the  ordinary  way.  Kerosene  will 
remove  many  stains  from  varnished  furniture. 

Ebonized  furniture  or  wood  may  be  polished  and  restored  by  rubbing  all 
spots  the  way  of  the  grain  of  the  wood  with  finely  pulverized  pumice  stone  and 
oil;  then  polish  with  a  soft  dry  cloth. 

Oiled  Walnut. — This  when  it  begins  to  look  dingy,  can  be  made  to  look  as 
fresh  as  new  by  re-oiling  it.  Either  linseed  or  good  kerosene  may  be  used.  Ap- 
ply it  with  a  soft  woolen  rag,  and  rub  it  in  well;  then  polish  it  with  clean,  dry 
flannel.  Or,  put  2  tablespoons  of  boiled  linseed  oil  in  1  pint  of  strong  coffee; 
apply  warm  with  flannel;  rub  with  dry  flannel  to  finish. 

Willow  Furniture. — This  should  be  cleaned  with  salt  and  water.  Scrub  it 
well  with  a  small  brush  and  dry  it  thoroughly.  Take  out  grease  spots  with  ful- 
ler's earth,  and  ink  stains  with  oxalic  acid,  as  described  for  wood  floors  or  wood. 

To  Bleach  Willow  Ware. — Soak  it  for  15  minutes  in  commercial  peroxide  of 
hydrogen  (it  can  be  obtained  at  any  drug  store  and  is  often  called  "oxygenated 
water");  then  take  it  out  and  expose  it  to  the  sun.  This  will  bleach  it  snow  white. 
Willow  baskets,  etc.,  can  be  thus  bleached. 

To  Bepolish  and  Finish  Old  Mahogany. — First  remove  the  old  varnish  with 
sandpaper,  or  if  it  is  French  polish  remove  it  with  alcohol.  Produce  a  tine  finish 
with  the  finest  sandpaper,  then  rub  with  vinegar,  and  then  apply  boiled  linseed 
oil;  let  it  soak  a  few  days  and  then  rub  it  with  flannel  cloths.  Oil  each  evening, 
let  soak  over  night,  and  rub  during  the  day,  and  the  more  you  rub  the  finer  the 
finish.  A  little  alkanet  root  and  rose  pink  added  to  the  oil  will  hasten  the 
process. 

Stains  on  Mahogany. — (1)  An  excellent  preparation  for  taking  stains  from 
mahogany,  as  well  as  ink,  if  not  of  too  long  standing,  is  the  following:  To  J^  pint 
of  soft  water,  put  1  oz.  oxalic  acid,  and  %  oz.  butter  (terchloride)  of  antimony; 
shake  well.  When  dissolved,  it  is  ready  for  use.  Rinse  afterwards  with  clear 
water.  (2)  Another  preparation  for  removing  stains  from  mahogany  is  to  mix  6 
oz.  of  spirit  of  salt  and  %.  oz-  of  powdered  salts  of  lemon.  Drop  a  little  of  this 
mixture  on  the  stains,  and  rub  well  with  a  cork  until  they  disappear;  then  wash 
off  with  cold  water. 

White  spots  on  mahogany  tables  caused  by  hot  dishes  may  be  removed  by 
pouring  a  little  kerosene  Oil  on  the  spot  and  rubbing  it  with  a  flannel  cloth;  add 
more  kerosene  occasionally,  rub  hard,  and  persevere  until  the  stain  disappears. 
Always  rub  the  way  of  the  grain.  (2)  Rub  on  oil,  then  pour  on  a  little  alcohol  and 
rub  it  dry  with  a  soft  cloth. 

Ink  Stains  on  Mahogany,  Black  Walnut,  or  Bosewood  Furniture. — These 
may  be  removed  as  follows:  Take  a  teaspoon  of  water  and  add  6  or  8  drops  of 
nitric  acid;  touch  the  spot  with  a  feather  dipped  in  the  mixture;  as  soon  as  the 
ink  disappears  rub  it  at  once  with  a  rag  wet  with  cold  water,  or  there  will  be  a 
white  spot  not  easily  effaced.  If  the  first  application  does  not  remove  it,  strengthen 
the  mixture  and  repeat  as  before.  Or,  apply  muriatic  acid  with  a  rag  until  the 
spot  is  gone,  and  then  wash  with  water  as  directed  above.  Or,  use  diluted  oil  of 
vitriol  the  same  way.    Use  all  acids  with  care. 

A  mahogany  top  of  bath  may  be  restored  by  washing  it  thoroughly  with 
warm  water  and  soap,  and  when  dry  apply  the  following  polish  with  a  flannel, 
and  afterwards  rub  well  with  a  soft  dry  cloth:  Mix  %  Pmt  brown  vinegar,  J^ 
pint  linseed  oil,  1  wineglass  alcohol.  Shake  the  mixture  well.  If  very  shabby, 
it  will  require  several  applications. 


452  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Rosewood  Furniture. — This  should  be  wiped  daily  with  a  dry  soft  cloth;  it 
will  not  require  rubbing,  and  no  oil  should  be  used  on  it. 
-  To  Remove  Ink  Stains  from  Highly  Polished  Furniture. — Put  6  drops  of 
spirits  of  nitre  in  1  tablespoon  of  water;  dip  a  earners  hair  brush  in  this,  and 
touch  the  stain  gently;  rub  the  place  immediately  with  a  sponge  wet  in  cold 
water,  or  the  nitre  will  make  a  spot. 

To  remove  ink  stains  from  any  unpainted  wood,  as  tables,  benches,  etc.,  rub 
the  spots  with  lemon  juice;  then  wash  off  with  warm  water.  Strong  vinegar  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  lemon  juice.  Either  citric,  tartaric  or  oxalic  acid  will 
remove  the  stains.    Wash  off  afterwards  with  some  alkali,  like  soda  and  water. 

For  scratches  on  furniture  rub  them  with  a  woolen  rag  clipped  in  boiled  lin- 
seed oil;  the  article  must  then  be  varnished  with  shellac  dissolved  in  alcohol. 
Or,  camphorated  oil  rubbed  briskly  on  scratched  articles  restores  the  color  and 
polish  and  leaves  them  smooth  and  glossy.  It  should  be  rubbed  on  lightly  and 
quickly  with  a  piece  of  flannel. 

Scratches  in  varnish  will  entirely  disappear,  it  is  said,  if  a  coarse  cloth  that 
has  been  well  saturated  with  linseed  oil  is  laid  over  them;  this  simple  remedy 
will  be  invaluable  to  those  who  have  charge  of  carriages,  highly  polished  furni- 
ture, etc. 

To  Take  Bruises  out  of  Furniture. — If  they  are  small  keep  the  place  wet  with 
warm  water,  and  hold  a  red  hot  iron  near  it;  the  wood  will  soon  swell  and  the 
dent  will  be  gone.  If  larger,  first  wet  the  spot  with  warm  water,  and  then  lay 
on  brown  paper,  which  has  been  soaked  in  warm  water  and  folded  into  5  or  6 
thicknesses;  lay  a  warm,  but  not  hot,  flat-iron  on  this  till  the  moisture  evaporates. 
Repeat  if  necessary;  2  or  3  repetitions  will  bring  the  dent  or  bruise  to  a  level. 

Drawers  which  draw  out  hard  can  be  made  to  move  more  easily  if  the  spot 
where  they  press  is  rubbed  over  with  a  little  hard  soap. 

Chips  broken  off  of  any  of  the  furniture  in  the  house  should  be  saved,  and 
fastened  on  again  with  a  little  glue;  liquid  glue  can  be  used. 

Worm-eaten  Furniture. — This  may  be  varnished  with  copal  or  white  carriage 
varnish;  go  all  over  the  wood  with  it;  apply  two  coats  so  that  the  interstices  are 
well  filled  with  it. 

A  furniture  filling  may  be  made  as  follows:— Take  %  pint  of  flour,  1  gallon 
plaster  of  paris,  %  oz-  prepared  chalk,  %  oz.  pulverized  pumice  stone;  mix  all 
together;  add  %  gill  Japan  dryer  and  1  quart  boiled  oil. 

Any  insects  attacking  furniture  may  be  killed  by  saturating  it  with  benzine. 

Baths  should  be  cleaned  about  once  a  fortnight.  If  neglected,  they  are  apt 
to  become  dark  colored.  Rub  them  with  wet  flannel  dipped  in  salt,  which  will 
keep  them  in  good  condition.    Keep  the  brass  faucets  brightly  polished. 

Pianos. — With  these,  moths  and  moisture  are  the  two  great  enemies  which 
must  be  guarded  against.  If  moths  are  found,  saturate  the  infected  parts  at 
once  with  benzine.  As  a  preventive,  use  some  strongly  odoriferous  preparation 
like  oil  of  cedar.  (See  our  article  on  "Insect  Pests.")  To  guard  against  dampness 
do  not  stand  a  piano  on  a  stone  floor  nor  against  an  outside  wall  if  it  can  be 
avoided.  If  wires  accumulate  rust,  as  frequently  happens,  the  dampness  comes 
either  from  the  general  atmosphere  of  the  room,  or  from  the  floor.  The  latter 
can  be  prevented  by  covering  the  floor  beneath  the  piano  with  waterproof  paper, 
or  use  ordinary  brown  paper  coated  on  both  sides  with  linseed  oil  or  varnish,  lay- 
ing it  under  the  carpet.  To  remove  rust  from  the  wires,  rub  them  lengthwise 
with  a  piece  of  chamois  leather  with  emery  flour  spread  on  it;  afterwards  remove 
every  particle  of  the  powder  with  a  clean  leather. 

Dust  a  piano  regularly,  carefully  and  thoroughly.  Use  a  pair  of  bellows  to 
blow  out  the  dust  under  the  wires.  Dust  off  the  polished  surface  lightly  with  an 
old  soft,  silk  handerchief ,  or  canton  flannel. 

Expose  the  ivory  keys  to  the  direct  rays  of  the  sun  as  often  as  possible,  as 
that  bleaches  them  and  prevents  their  turning  yellow.  Keep  the  instrument 
closed  in  damp  weather  and  at  night. 

To  remove  finger  marks,  breathe  on  them  and  wipe  them  off  lightly  and 
quickly  with  chamois  skin. 

Be  cautious  about  using  piano  polishes.  When  applied,  use  but  little,  and 
rub  it  off  well  with  soft  woolen  cloth.  Ordinarily,  clean,  when  the  piano  needs 
it,  with  a  little  lukewarm  water,  and  rub  dry  with  an  oiled  chamois  skin,  doing 
but  little  at  a  time.    Rub  bruises  with  a  little  pumice  stone. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  453 

For  the  care  of  the  ivory  piano  keys,  see  "Ivory." 

Furniture  Polishes. — There  are  a  great  many  recipes  for  these;  we  give  a  few 
of  the  best  of  them.  (1)  Take  1%  oz.  of  alcohol;  \%  oz.  of  terchloride  of  antimony; 
3^  oz.  hydrochloric  acid;  8  oz.  linseed  oil;  1  cup  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly,  and 
apply  a  thin  even  coat.  (This  has  been  repeatedly  sold  for  $5.)  (2)  Take  equal 
parts  of  linseed  oil,  turpentine,  and  either  vinegar  or  alcohol;  mix.  Rub  in  well, 
and  polish  with  a  piece  of  chamois  leather.  This  is  cheap,  useful,  and  excellent 
for  dingy  furniture.  (3)  Take  equal  parts  of  linseed  oil,  spirits  of  wine  and  shel- 
lac varnish;  mix.  This  is  excellent.  (4)  Boiled  linseed  oil  rubbed  well  into  the 
wood  with  a  cloth  is  a  very  good  substitute  for  furniture  polish.  (5)  Kerosene  oil 
applied  to  ordinary  furniture  and  then  rubbed  well  with  soft  flannel  or  chamois 
skin  freshens  it  nicely.  (6)  A  French  Polish. — Take  %  oz-  shellac,  %  oz-  gum 
lac,  %  oz.  gumsandarac,  1  pint  spirits  of  wine:  put  all  together  in  a  stone  bot- 
tle; shake  frequently  until  the  gums  are  all  dissolved,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Piano  Polish. — Take  an  8  oz.  bottle  and  fill  it  a  little  over  %  full  of  turpentine; 
add  1  tablespoon  of  alcohol  and  %  teaspoon  of  rotten  stone;  then  fill  up  the  bottle 
with  sweet  oil.  Shake  well  before  using.  Apply  with  a  cheesecloth;  then  rub 
well  with  a  clean  cloth;  lastly  with  a  cloth  with  barely  a  trace  (no  more)  of  alco- 
hol on  it;  too  much  alcohol  will  make  the  surface  streaked.  Rub  lightly  at  first, 
then  harder,  and  the  longer  you  rub  the  finer  the  finish.  (Used  by  the  best  piano 
dealers.) 

French  Polish  Reviver. — Mix  %  gill  vinegar;  1  gill  spirits  of  wine;  1  drachm 
linseed  oil. 

Violins. — To  clean:  (1)  Use  soap  and  water,  but  don't  let  it  run  through  the 
"St"  holes.  Clean  the  interior  with  dry  rice.  Do  not  use  spirits.  (2)  Use  ordinary 
paraffine  oil;  slightly  saturate  a  rag  of  soft  silk,  and  wash  the  violin  with  it.  The 
effect  is  almost  magical;  the  paraffine  dissolves  the  crust  of  dirt  and  resin,  and 
cleans  the  varnish  without  injury.  When  clean,  rub  with  linseed  oil.  Spirits  of 
wine  removes  the  old  resin,  but  often  takes  the  varnish  with  it.  For  the  inside, 
steep  a  handful  of  rice  in  a  solution  of  water  and  sugar  for  5  minutes;  strain  off, 
and  nearly  dry  the  rice — or  till  it  is  barely  sticky;  put  it  in  at  the  sound  holes, 
and  shake.    It  will  pick  up  all  dirt;  then  turn  it  out. 

Violin  Bows. — Wipe  carefully  with  a  flannel  moistened  in  a  solution  of  borax 
and  water.  Or  use  the  best  yellow  soap,  then  wipe  with  clear  water  on  flannel, 
and  dry  with  a  linen  cloth. 

Hints  About  Wood. — For  an  oak  stain  for  new  wood  mix  burnt  umber  and 
raw  sienna  in  a  saucer;  have  some  boiled  linseed  oil  in  another  dish,  and  dip'a 
flannel  rag  in  the  oil,  then  in  the  first  mixture,  and  rub  on  the  wood;  the  next 
day  rub  it  over  with  clean  oil. 

A  red  stain  for  chairs,  bedsteads,  etc.,  is  obtained  by  using  archil,  cold.  To 
improve  it,  add  a  second  coat,  and,  when  nearly  dry,  brush  it  over  with  a  hot 
solution  of  pearlash  in  water. 

Genuine  oak  may  be  darkened  by  applying  strong  liquid  ammonia  with  a  rag 
or  brush.  The  color  deepens  at  once  and  does  not  fade.  It  gives  the  appearance 
of  age.  The  shade  may  be  varied  by  applying  one  or  more  coats.  Considerable 
difference  is  made  by  applying  oil  on  any  of  these  stained  woods,  as  it  helps  to 
bring  out  the  color  and  beauty  of  the  grain.  In  Germany  cabinet  makers  use 
strong  coffee  to  darken  oak. 

For  an  oak  stain  take  2  oz.  of  pearlash,  2  oz.  American  potash,  and  1  quart  of 
water;  bottle,  and  it  is  always  ready  for  use.  If  the  color  is  too  deep  add  more 
water. 

For  a  rosewood  stain  take  1  pint  of  water  and  dissolve  in  it  about  5  cents 
worth  of  logwood;  add  pulverized  alum,  a  little  at  a  time,  till  the  solution  is  dark 
brown.  Apply  this  to  the  article  to  be  stained,  and  when  dry  apply  a  coat  of  oil 
or  varnish  as  preferred. 

For  a  Walnut  Stain. — (1)  Dissolve  in  5  quarts  of  hot  water,  3  oz.  of  manganate 
of  potash  and  3  oz.  of  sulphate  of  manganese.  Apply  to  the  wood  with  a  brush, 
and  repeat  several  times.  Or,  (2)  take  34  oz-  bichromate  of  potash,  1%  oz.  wash- 
ing soda,  1)4.  oz-  Vandyke  brown,  1  quart  water,  boil  10  minutes.  Apply  either 
hot  or  cold  with  a  brush. 

For  a  mahogany  stain  boil  %  lb.  madder  and  2  oz.  logwood  chips  in  1  gallon 
of  water,  and  brush  well  over  while  hot.    When  dry,  go  over  with  pearlash  solu- 


454  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

tion,  2  drachms  to  the  quart.  By  using  it  strong  or  weak  the  color  can  be 
varied  at  pleasure.  Or,  to  a  pint  of  nitric  acid,  dissolve  alum  the  size  of  an  egg; 
to  this  add  a  solution  of  extract  of  logwood  till  the  desired  shade  is  obtained. 

For  an  ebony  stain  infuse  gall  nuts  in  vinegar  in  which  rusty  nails  have  been 
soaked;  rub  the  wood  with  the  infusion;  dry,  polish,  and  burnish.  Or  stain  first 
with  a  hot  saturated  solution  of  logwood,  containing  a  little  alum;  when  dry, 
brush  over  with  common  writing  ink. 

To  Ebonize  Wood. — Take  1  lb.  logwood  chips  and  3  pints  water;  boil  to  1 
pint;  apply  hot  to  any  close  grained  wood;  let  dry  and  give  another  coat;  let  it 
dry  slowly  and  then  sandpaper;  mix  1  gill  of  vinegar  with  3  tablespoons  of  iron  or 
steel  filings;  let  stand  5  or  10  hours  and  brush  on  the  wood;  let  it  dry  and  give 
another  coat  of  the  first;  this  sends  the  vinegar  deeper,  arid  makes  a  denser 
black.    Then  sandpaper  smooth,  and  polish. 

To  Fill  Cracks,  Nail  Holes,  Etc. — (1)  Take  some  sawdust  of  the  same  kind  of 
wood  you  wish  to  patch,  and  soak  it  7  or  8  days  in  water;  then  if  boiled  for  a 
while  it  will  become  pulpy,  when  it  should  be  put  in  a  cloth  arid  the  water 
squeezed  out.  Mix  some  of  this  in  thin  glue,  and  press  it  into  the  cracks  or 
holes.  If  neatly  done,  it  will  hardly  show  when  dry  and  finished  off.  (2)  A 
cement  made  by  melting  beeswax,  resin,  and  shellac  together  is  often  used  for 
this  purpose.  (3)  Powdered  whiting  mixed  with  painter's  drying  oil  is  an  excel- 
lent filler  for  pores,  but  first  color  it  to  match  the  wood  it  is  to  be  used  on. 

To  Harden  Wood. — Boil  it  in  olive  oil  8  or  10  minutes. 

French  Method  of  Polishing.  —First  polish  the  wood  with  a  piece  of  fine 
pumice  stone  and  water,  rubbing  the  way  of  the  grain;  finish  with  boiled  linseed 
oil  and  fine  tripoli  on  flannel.  The  polish  produced  is  superior,  but  a  good  deal 
of  patience  is  required. 

To  Render  Wood  Fireproof. — (1)  Soak  it  4  or  5  days  (covering  every  part)  in 
a  strong  solution  of  alum  and  sulphate  of  copper.  (2)  Whitewashing  it  2  or  3 
times  renders  it  partially  fireproof. 

To  Polish  Varnish. — Wrap  3  or  4  thicknesses  of  flannel  over  a  cork,  dip  it  in 
a  paste  of  fine  tripoli  and  water,  and  polish  it  on  the  varnish.  Rub  only  long 
enough  to  make  a  smooth  surface,  without  over-doing  it.  Wipe  off  a  spot  with 
a  sponge  to  see  if  it  is  sufficiently  polished;  when  satisfactory,  finish  it  with  mut- 
ton suet,  fine  flour,  and  the  bare  fingers;  a  beautiful  polish  results. 

Nails  and  Screws.  —These  may  be  easily  forced  into  hard  wood  if  they  are 
first  soaped;  or  cover  them  with  grease  or  oil. 

To  fill  holes  of  nails,  screws,  etc.,  make  a  thick  paste  of  glue  and  fine  sawdust; 
pound  this  into  the  hole  and  let  dry;  it  will  be  as  good  as  new.  Or,  for  a  ready 
filling,  use  putty. 

Nails  and  screivs  which  are  rusted  into  wood  so  that  it  seems  impossible  to 
start  them  should  have  a  little  kerosene  poured  over  them;  after  soaking  a  short 
time  the  rust  will  frequently  give  way.  Nuts  and  bolts  very  badly  rusted  may 
often  be  started  the  same  way.  A  red  hot  poker  or  iron  pressed  on  the  head  of 
a  rusty  screw  for  3  or  4  minutes  will  often  start  it  so  that  it  will  come  out  easily. 

Screivs  for  machinery,  if  they  are  dipped  in  a  paste  of  graphite  and  oil  before 
screwing  them  in,  will  not  rust  in,  and  can  be  easily  removed  even  after  the  lapse 
of  years. 

To  Deaden  Sound  or  Noise. — A  simple  device  to  deaden  the  sound  of  hammer- 
ing or  pounding  would  often  be  a  great  relief.  There  are  several  ways.  (1)  Put 
rubber  cushions  under  the  legs  of  the  work  bench;  pounding  on  it  will  then  be 
hardly  heard  in  the  room  below.  (2)  Take  kegs,  put  in  a  few  inches  of  sand  or 
sawdust,  then  put  in  a  board  or  block  on  which  rest  each  leg  of  the  bench,  and 
then  fill  the  kegs  around  the  legs  with  sand  or  sawdust.  This  will  prevent  both 
noise  and  vibration,  so  that  an  anvil  can  be  pounded  on  in  an  ordinary  dwelling 
house,  and  hardly  disturb  the  inhabitants. 

IVORY,  STONE,  RUBBER,  ETC. 

Amber. — To  mend  amber  smear  the  broken  part  with  linseed  oil,  heat  the 
fracture  carefully  over  a  gas  or  alcohol  flame  protecting  the  other  parts  from  the 
heat,  and  when  sufficiently  soft  and  adhesive  press  the  edges  together.  To  polish 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  455 

use  whiting  and  water  first,  and  finish  with  olive  oil  on  a  flannel  cloth.  Polish 
it  a  little  at  a  time  at  intervals,  or  it  will  be  apt  to  fly  to  pieces  with  the  electric- 
ity generated.    Amber  may  be  improved  by  boiling  it  in  rape  oil  for  24  hours. 

Bone  and  Ivory. — To  clean  these  rub  them  with  a  paste  made  of  whiting  and 
spirits  of  turpentine.  Or  to  remove  stains  rub  them  with  powdered  pumice  stone 
and  soap;  then  polish  with  dry  whiting.  Soap  or  bicarbonate  of  soda  (baking 
soda)  and  tepid  water  may  be  used  to  clean  ivory,  but  dry  it  well  afterwards;  if 
the  water  gives  the  article  a  yellowish  look  dry  it  in  a  warm  place. 

To  Whiten  Ivory. — (1)  To  bleach  out  yellowed  ivory  handled  knives  and  forks 
cover  them  with  a  coating  of  whiting  moistened  with  lemon  juice;  leave  it  on  8 
or  10  hours,  then  rinse  in  cold  water  and  polish,  first  with  lemon  juice  and  then 
with  a  soft  cloth.  It  will  bleach  them.  (2)  When  ivory  ornaments  get  yellow  or 
dusky  looking,  wash  them  well  in  soap  and  water,  using  a  small  brush  to  clean 
the  carvings,  and  place  them  while  wet  in  bright  sunshine;  wet  them  2  or  3  times 
a  day  for  several  days  with  soapy  water,  still  keeping  them  in  the  sun;  then 
wash  them  again  and  they  will  be  beautifully  white.  (3)  Mix  a  tablespoon  of 
oxalic  acid  in  %  pint  boiling  water;  then  wet  the  bone  or  ivory  article  and  then 
apply  the  dilute  acid  with  a  stiff  brush;  then  rinse  well,  and  dry  in  a  cloth  before 
the  fire,  but  do  not  hold  it  too  close.  (4)  Yellowed  ivory  may  be  whitened  by 
applying  with  a  stiff  brush  a  solution  of  1  oz.  nitric  acid  in  10  oz.  soft  water; 
then  rinse  thoroughly  and  dry  as  above. 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains  from  Ivory.— Apply  repeatedly  a  solution  of  quadro- 
zalate  of  potassa  in  water.    Get  it  at  a  drug  store.    Or  use  oxalic  acid. 

To  Bleach  Bones. — (1)  Soak  them  for  a  few  days  in  a  solution  of  4  parts  water 
to  1  part  fresh  chloride  of  lime;  then  take  out,  wash,  and  dry  in  the  open  air.  (2) 
Boil  them  in  a  mixture  of  water,  unslacked  lime  and  bran,  until  white  and  free 
from  fatty  substances. 

To  Polish  Bone  or  Ivory. — (1)  Rub  them  first  with  fine  glass  paper,  then  with 
a  wet  linen  cloth  dipped  in  powdered  pumice  stone,  and  then  with  a  cloth  wet  in 
soapsuds  and  dipped  in  whiting.  (2)  Rubbing  spotted  or  yellowed  ivory  with 
fine  emery  paper,  and  then  repolishing  with  pumice  stone  and  whiting,  leaves  it 
white  and  clean. 

To  remove  the  disagreeable  odor  and  fatty  emanations  of  bone  and  ivory, 
place  them  in  a  glass  jar,  raised  a  little  above  the  bottom  by  resting  them  on 
strips  of  zinc,  and  cover  them  with  turpentine;  expose  to  the  sun  and  leave  in  3  or 
4  days,  or  longer  if  in  the  shade.     They  will  be  beautifully  bleached. 

To  Stain  Ivory. — For  black,  immerse  it  frequently  in  common  black  ink.  Or, 
boil  for  some  time  in  a  strained  decoction  of  logwood;  then  steep  in  a  solution  of 
red  acetate  of  iron.  For  blue,  immerse  it  in  a  dilute  solution  of  sulphate  of  indi- 
go, partly  saturated  with  potash.  For  green,  boil  it  in  a  solution  of  verdigris  in 
vinegar  until  dark  enough. 

To  Silver  Ivory.  Immerse  a  small  piece  in  a  weak  solution  of  nitrate  of 
silver,  and  leave  it  till  the  solution  gives  it  a  deep  yellow  color;  then  take  out, 
immerse  in  a  tumbler  of  clear  water,  and  expose,  while  in  the  water,  to  the  rays 
of  the  sun;  in  about  3  hours  it  changes  to  a  black  color,  but  on  being  rubbed 
becomes  a  brilliant  silver. 

To  Make  Ivory  Flexible. — Ivory  immersed  in  a  solution  of  pure  phosphoric 
acid,  until  it  partially  loses  its  opacity,  and  then  washed  in  cold  soft  water  and 
dried,  becomes  very  flexible;  if  long  exposed  to  dry  air  it  loses  its  flexibility,  but 
by  immersion  in  hot  water  it  can  be  restored. 

To  Soften  Ivory. — Slice  %  lb.  of  mandrake,  and  put  it  into  %  pint  of  the 
best  vinegar;  put  the  ivory  in  this  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  48  hours;  it 
may  then  be  bent  into  any  shape. 

Substitute  for  Ivory  or  Horn. — Make  a  thick  paste  of  starch  and  a  little  water, 
and  heat  it  to  212°  to  265°  F.,  when  it  becomes  an  elastic,  transparent  mass,  easily 
dried  and  worked  into  any  form  desired. 

Artificial  Ivory. — This  may  be  made  by  mixing  isinglass  and  brandy  into  a 
paste,  with  powdered  egg-shell  very  finely  ground;  give  it  any  desired  color,  oil 
the  mold,  and  pour  it  in  warm;  leave  the  paste  in  the  mold  till  dry;  it  will  strongly 
resemble  ivory. 

Ivory  Piano  Keys. — These  may  be  cleaned  with  a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  whit- 
ing; or  use  spirits  of  turpentine  and  whiting  mixed;  then  polish  with  a  dry  cloth. 


456  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

If  they  turn  yellow,  leave  the  lid  open  and  expose  them  to  the  sunshine,  wetting 
them  with  soapy  water  as  we  explain  for  bleaching  ivory.  They  turn  yellow  less 
when  much  exposed  to  the  light  and  air.  Or,  whiten  them  with  lemon  juice,  oxalic 
or  nitric  acid  in  the  manner  explained  for  whitening  ivory. 

Ivorine. — This  can  be  cleaned  as  directed  for  celluloid.  Its  general  care  is 
much  like  ivory. 

Celluloid. — This  cracks  easily  when  very  cold;  when  put  in  hot  water  it  becomes 
soft  and  pliable.  To  clean  it  (1)  rub  with  spirits  of  turpentine  and  whiting  mixed. 
(2)  Use  tripoli  or  pumice  stone  on  woolen  cloths.  (3)  Use  warm  water  and  hand 
sapolio  (common  sapolio  is  too  coarse). 

Horn. — Polish  it  with  rotten  stone  and  oil;  finish  it  with  dry  flour  on  a  linen 
rag. 

To  Polish  a  Bullock's  Horns. — First  scrape  them  with  a  glass  or  steel  scraper; 
then  rub  them  with  cloth  wet  with  water  and  dipped  in  powdered  pumice  stone, 
until  a  smooth  surface  is  obtained;  then  polish  with  rotten  stone  and  linseed  oil; 
finish  with  dry  flour  and  a  clean  linen  rag.  The  more  they  are  rubbed  with  the 
rotten  stone  and  oil  the  better  the  polish. 

White  horn  buttons  may  be  made  to  imitate  mother  of  pearl  by  being  boiled 
in  a  saturated  solution  of  sugar  of  lead,  and  then  laid  in  very  dilute  hydrochloric 
acid. 

To  Soften  Horn. — To  1  lb.  of  wood  ashes  add  2  lbs.  of  quicklime;  put  them  into 
1  quart  of  water;  let  the  whole  boil  till  reduced  to  }■{;  then  dip  in  a  feather,  and  if, 
on  drawing  it  out,  the  plume  should  come  off,  it  is  boiled  enough;  if  not,  boil  a 
little  longer.  When  it  is  settled,  filter  it  off,  and  in  the  liquor  thus  strained  put 
in  shavings  of  horn.  Let  them  soak  for  3  days,  and,  first  well  anointing  your 
hands  with  oil,  work  the  whole  into  a  mass.  Horn  thus  softened  can  be  molded 
into  any  desired  shape. 

To  Stain  Horn. — For  blacJc,  use  nitrate  of  silver  solution,  and  expose  to  the 
sunlight.  For  blue,  stain  green,  and  then  steep  for  a  short  time  in  a  weak  solu- 
tion of  sulphate  of  indigo,  containing  a  little  cream  of  tartar.  For  green,  steep 
in  a  solution  of  2  parts  verdigris,  and  1  of  sal  ammoniac.  For  red,  soak  in  very 
dilute  nitric  acid  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  apply  a  strong  infusion  of  cochi- 
neal in  aqua  ammonia.  For  yellow,  steep  in  a  solution  of  lead  acetate,  and  then, 
after  drying,  in  a  solution  of  bichromate  of  potash. 

Tortoiseshell. — This  is  best  polished  with  rouge,  on  a  linen  rag;  finish  by  pol- 
ishing with  the  hand.  Tortoiseshell  combs  should  always  be  rubbed  with 
the  hand  after  they  are  taken  from  the  hair;  they  will  not  then  lose  their  polish. 
They  can  be  washed  with  ammonia  and  water  like  other  combs  to  clean  them. 

Marine  Shells. — To  polish,  first  clean  by  rubbing  with  a  rag  dipped  in  hydro- 
chloric acid,  till  the  outer  skin  is  removed;  then  wash  in  warm  water,  dry  in  hot 
sawdust,  and  polish  with  chamois  leather.  Shells  which  have  no  natural  polished 
surface  may  either  be  varnished,  or  rubbed  with  tripoli  powder  and  turpentine 
on  wash  leather;  then  with  fine  tripoli  alone;  then  with  a  little  olive  oil;  bring 
up  the  surface  lastly  with  chamois  leather  as  before. 

To  Fasten  Shells  on  Wood  or  Pasteboard. — Melt  common  resin  and  stir  in 
about  twice  as  much  brick  dust;  use  it  like  sealing  wax.  Or.  use  very  thick  gum 
water,  in  which  finely-powdered  whiting  is  stirred  until  it  is  thick. 

Mother  of  Pearl. — To  polish,  go  over  it  with  finely-powdered  pumice  stone, 
with  which  polish  it  very  smooth;  then  apply  putty  powder  and  water  with  a 
rubber,  which  will  produce  a  fine  gloss  and  a  good  color.  To  clean  mother-of-pearl 
wash  it  with  whiting  and  water;  soap  destroys  its  brilliancy. 

Japanned  Ware.— Clean  it  when  possible  by  rubbing  with  silk  or  flannel 
alone,  without  even  water.  Never  leave  any  water  in  a  japanned  teapot  when 
through  with  it.  If  a  japanned  article  gets  dirty,  rub  it  with  a  sponge  wet  in 
lukewarm  water  and  soap,  but  used  sparingly.  If  it  looks  smeary,  dust  on  some 
dry  flour,  and  rub  it  with  the  hand,  a  flannel,  or  a  soft  leather.  If  it  gets  marked, 
rub  it  with  a  woolen  cloth  and  a  little  sweet  oil,  or  whiting  and  oil.  Do  not  pour 
hot  water  on  japanned  ware,  as  it  will  make  it  crack  and  peel  off.  When  scratched 
(if  the  scratch  is  not  so  deep  as  to  go  clear  through  the  varnished  surface)  apply 
sweet  oil  and  rub  with  the  hand  alone  —  that  is  the  way  the  polish  is  first  pro- 
duced, and  will  restore  it. 

Japanning  for  Old  Trays. — First  clean  the  old  trays  thoroughly  with  soap 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  457 

and  water  and  a  little  rotten  stone;  then  dry  them  by  wiping  and  exposure  to 
the  fire;  next  mix  good  copal  varnish  with  bronze  powder,  and  apply  with  a  brush 
to  the  denuded  parts;  then  set  the  trays  in  an  oven  at  a  heat  of  212°  to  300°,  until 
the  varnish  is  dry.    Two  coats  will  make  old  trays  equal  to  new. 

Moorish  Trays.— If  not  very  dirty  clean  them  by  rubbing  a  little  lemon  juice 
over  them.  If  very  dirty  put  into  hot  water  with  a  little  soda  and  soap,  and 
scrub  clean  with  a  soft  brush;  then  lift  out  and  pour  on  boiling  water,  and  let 
them  soak  in  this  a  little  while;  then  dry  carefully  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  rub 
with  a  very  little  olive  oil. 

Plaster  Casts. — To  Clean. — Busts  and  statuettes  may  be  cleaned  by  dipping 
them  into  a  thick  liquid  starch;  or  apply  a  thin  solution  with  a  brush  covering 
every  part.  Let  it  dry  3  or  4  days  and  carefully  peel  oft"  the  starch — the  dirt  will 
come  with  it. 

Plaster  Casts  may  be  Polished:  (1)  By  coating  them  with  white  wax,  and 
placing  them  before  the  fire  until  the  wax  is  absorbed;  a  considerable  polish  can 
then  be  obtained  by  friction.  (2)  With  a  camel's  hair  pencil  lay  skimmed  milk 
on  the  plaster  till  it  will  absorb  no  more.  Shake  or  blow  off  any  that  remains 
on  the  surface,  and  lay  the  figure  in  a  place  perfectly  free  from  dust;  when  dry 
it  will  look  like  polished  marble.  If  the  milk  is  not  perfectly  skimmed  it  will 
not  answer  the  purpose.  (3)  Prepare  a  strong  solution  of  alum  water,  dip  in  the 
figures,  and  they  will  look  very  much  like  alabaster  when  dry.  (4)  An  old  ivory 
tone  can  be  imparted  by  diluting  some  orange  shellac  with  a  little  alcohol,  and 
applying  several  thin  coats  with  a  brush.  (5)  Plaster  casts  can  be  brushed  over 
with  graphite  (a  brilliant  black  lead)  and  they  will  then  resemble  genuine  bronze 
very  closely. 

A  Varnish  for  Plaster  of  Paris  Casts. — Take  %  oz.  white  soap,  %  oz.  white 
wax,  and  1  quart  water;  boil  them  together  for  a  short  time  in  a  clean  vessel; 
apply  when  cold  with  a  soft  brush.  It  does  not  sink  in  and  it  readily  dries. 
Lightly  rubbing  afterwards  with  a  soft  silk  handkerchief  improves  it. 

To  Color  Plaster  Casts  of  Brackets,  etc.,  Like  Oak. — Saturate  the  cast  with 
oil,  and  size  it  twice;  then,  in  a  saucer,  rub  down  asphaltum  with  water  till  it  is 
liquid,  adding  a  few  drops  of  spirits  of  wine  to  soften  it,  lay  this  on  with  a  soft 
brush  so  as  to  imitate  the  graining  of  oak.  When  dry,  varnish  it.  After  apply- 
ing 2  coats  of  good  copal  varnish  it  will  last  for  years;  and  can  be  cleaned  by 
washing  with  soap  and  water. 

Plaster  of  paris  mixed  with  vinegar  instead  of  water  will  not  harden  for  20 
or  30  miriutes,  instead  of  hardening  at  once  as  it  does  when  mixed  with  water; 
the  mass  will  be  like  putty,  and  can  be  handled  and  molded  easily. 

Alabaster. — This  may  be  cleaned  with  strong  soap  and  water.  If  too  much 
discolored  make  a  paste  of  quicklime  and  water,  cover  the  article  with  it,  and 
leave  it  for  1  day;  then  wash  off  with  soap  and  water,  but  apply  hard  rubbing  to 
all  stains.  Or,  having  washed  off  all  dirt  and  grease,  wash  with  dilute  muriatic 
acid. 

Brownstone.— Muriatic  acid  is  used  by  masons  to  take  out  stains,  and  will 
remove  most  of  them.  Strong  soda  will  often  take  out  most  of  an  oil  stain;  then 
rub  with  sandpaper.  The  green  formation  which  sometimes  troubles  house- 
keepers in  the  cities  can  be  removed  by  using  a  solution  of  1  part  carbolic  acid  to 
3  parts  warm  water. 

Jasper  or  Porphyry. — To  clean  it  mix  up  a  quantity  of  the  strongest  soap-lees 
with  quicKlime  to  the  consistency  of  milk,  and  lay  it  on  the  stone  for  24  hours; 
then  wash  off  and  it  will  appear  like  new.  It  may  be  improved  by  afterwards 
rubbing  with  fine  putty  powder  and  olive  oil. 

Marble. — To  wash  marble  use  a  soft  cloth  or  chamois  skin,  and  warm  water; 
if  it  is  dirty  add  some  ammonia  to  the  water.  Do  not  use  soap  on  marble. 
Dry  at  once  with  soft  flannel  or  chamois  skin.  For  marble  wash-basins,  sink- 
fixtures,  etc.,  use  salt;  it  removes  incrustations  and  deposits,  and  leaves  the 
marble  clean.    Dust  marble  with  a  feather  duster. 

To  Clean  Stained  Marble. — (1)  For  light  stains  lemon  juice  will  often  be 
effectual,  or  use  javelle  water;  then  rinse  clean.  (2)  Take  2  parts  of  soda,  1  part 
pumice  stone,  and  1  part  finely  powdered  chalk;  sift  these  through  a  fine  sieve, 
and  mix  them  into  a  paste  with  water.  Rub  this  well  over  the  marble  with 
flannel,  and  the  stains  will  be  removed;  then  wash  with  ammonia  and  water  and 

28 


458  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

it  will  leave  a  beautiful  polish.  (3)  Mix  with  34  Pmt  of  soap-lees,  and  %  gill  of 
turpentine,  sufficient  pipe  clay  and  bullock's  gall  to  make  the  whole  into  a  rather 
thick  paste;  apply  it  with  a  soft  brush,  and  leave  it  on  1  or  2  days;  when  quite 
dry  rub  it  off  with  a  soft  rag.  If  needed,  repeat  2  or  3  times  or  until  the  marble 
is  quite  clean.  (4)  Mix  quicklime  and  strong  soap  lye  to  the  consistency  of  thin 
cream;  apply  and  leave  on  1  day;  wash  off  with  soapsuds.  (5)  Mix  1  part  bluing 
and  2  parts  whiting  (both  powdered)  and  %  lb-  s°ft  soap;  bring  to  a  boil,  and 
while  hot  apply  to  the  stained  marble,  using  a  soft  cloth;  leave  on  till  dry;  then 
wash  off  with  hot  water  and  soap  and  a  little  salts  of  lemon  added;  rub  dry  with 
flannel,  and  the  marble  will  look  like  new. 

The  above  preparations  will  take  off  surface  stains,  but  if  the  stains  have  gone 
deeper  and  formed  chemical  combinations  with  the  marble  it  may  be  necessary 
to  grind  it  down  to  a  fresh  surface  and  repolish. 

For  black  marble,  spirits  of  turpentine  may  be  used. 

If  grey  marble  hearths  are  disfigured  with  spots  rub  them  with  linseed  oil. 

Spots  from  Sulphur  and  Phosphorous  on  marble,  caused  by  lucifer  matches, 
can  be  extracted  with  carbon  bisulphide,  which  can  be  bought  at  any  drug 
store. 

Ink  Stains  or  Iron  Mould  may  be  removed  from  marble  as  follows:  (1) 
Take  %  oz.  butter  of  antimony  and  1  oz.  oxalic  acid;  dissolve  in  1  pint  rain  water; 
add  enough  flour  to  bring  the  mixture  to  the  proper  consistency.  Lay  it  evenly 
on  the  stained  part  with  a  brush;  leave  a  few  days,  and  wash  off.  Repeat  if  the 
stain  be  not  wholly  removed.  (2)  Moisten  iron  stains  with  vitrol  or  oxalic 
acid;  if  they  do  not  come  out  readily  leave  it  on  half  an  hour  or  so;  then  wash  off 
thoroughly.  (3)  Iron  rust  can  often  be  removed  with  lemon  juice,  or  lemon 
juice  and  vitrol  mixed  in  equal  parts. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots  from  Marble. — (1)  Make  a  paste  of  powdered 
pipe  clay  and  fuller's  earth;  mix  with  strong  soap  lye;  lay  a  thick  coating  on  the 
marble,  and  pass  a  moderately  hot  flat-iron  over  it  lightly  until  it  is  dry.  Leave 
a  short  time,  and  wash  off  with  clean  water.  Repeat  the  process  if  necessary  un- 
til all  grease  is  removed.  (2)  Make  a  paste  of  whiting  and  potash;  lay  on, 
leave  a  day  or  so,  and  brush  off.  (3)  Make  a  paste  of  lime,  pearlash  and  water; 
spread  it  on,  leave  several  hours,  and  brush  off.  Repeat  several  times  if  neces- 
sary. (4)  For  oil  spots  apply  either  common  clay  or  calcined  magnesia,  satu- 
rated with  benzine;  leave  till  thoroughly  dry,  and  brush  off.  (5)  Mix  caustic 
soda  or  potash  and  quicklime,  and  apply. 

To  Clean  Smoke  from  Marble. — (1)  Mix  chloride  of  lime  and  water  to  a 
thin  paste,  and  apply  it  with  a  brush  to  the  smoky  place;  leave  it  one  or  two  mo- 
ments, and  wash  off  with  hot  soapsuds.  (2)  Use  the  first  recipe  given  for  re- 
moving grease  spots.  (3)  Rub  the  smoky  place  quickly  and  vigorously  with 
a  flannel  dipped  in  strong  ammonia;  then  take  hot  soapsuds  and  wash  it  off.  (4) 
For  the  smoke  stains  from  bituminous  coal  or  kindling  wood,  mix  whiting  and 
washing  soda,  and  moisten  them  with  barely  water  enough  to  make  a  paste;  rub 
the  spots  with  flannel  dipped  in  this,  and  then  leave  it  on  for  several  hours;  then 
rub  off  and  repeat  if  necessary.  When  the  spots  are  gone  wash  with  clean  soap- 
suds, wipe  dry,  and  polish  with  a  chamois  skin  or  flannel. 

Aeids  on  Marble. — Marble  being  composed  of  carbonate  of  lime  (and  so  of  an 
alkoline  nature)  any  strong  acid  spilled  on  it  will  attack  it  actively,  and  if  the 
action  is  not  checked  at  once  will  roughen  the  surface.  The  prompt  application 
of  ammonia,  soda,  or  other  alkali  will  neutralize  the  acid  and  stop  its  action,  or  if 
these  are  not  at  hand  apply  water  freely  to  dilute  the  acid.  If  the  surface  is 
roughened,  nothing  but  repolishing  will  remove  it.  For  the  above  reason  any 
strong  acid  should  be  used  very  cautiously  about  marble. 

Scratches  on  marble  which  make  it  look  disfigured,  will  usually  disappear  if 
they  are  rubbed  hard  with  wet  whiting;  then  wash  and  wipe  dry. 

A  sort  of  scum  is  often  noticed  in  marble  wash  basins.  Rubbing  with  salt 
will  take  it  all  off  readily,  and  leave  the  basin  clean  and  bright. 

To  Polish  Marble. — (1)  Grind  it  down  with  fine  sand  and  water,  using  a  fine 
sand  stone;  then  wrap  a  piece  of  felt  around  a  flat  stone  or  iron,  dip  it  in 
fine  emery  powder,  and  polish  out  all  scratches;  finish  with  putty  powder  and 
flannel  rags.  (2)  If  in  removing  stains  the  polish  of  marble  is  deadened,  re- 
polish  with  oxide  of  tin  and  water,  applied  with  a  cloth;  or  rub  with  chalk  wet 
with  water  to  give  a  gloss, 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  459 

Marble  Statues. — (1)  Dust  these  carefully  every  day  with  a  feather  duster; 
in  summer  cover  them  with  gauze.  If  they  become  fly-specked,  wipe  them  off 
with  alcohol,  but  soap  and  warm  water  should  not  be  used.  Improper  washing 
often  yellows  fine  statues.  Do  not  handle  them  with  the  bare  hand  as  the  oil  in 
the  hand  discolors  them.  If  properly  cared  for  they  will  not  need  washing  more' 
than  2  or  3  times  a  year;  then  use  pure  cold  water  and  a  painter's  brush.  (2) 
Care  must  be  taken  not  to  scratch  polished  marble;  it  can  be  washed  carefully 
with  a  brush  and  warm  water  and  ammonia;  then  rinse  with  clear  cold  water,  and 
wipe  dry.    Unpolished  marble  can  be  carefully  washed  with  "Sapolio." 

Marble  busts  which  are  soiled  should  never  be  washed  with  soap — that  injures 
them;  use  instead  very  weak  muriatic  acid,  in  cold  water. 

To  prevent  statues,  busts,  etc.,  from  marring  any  furniture  they  rest  on,  cut  a 
piece  of  plush,  velvet,  or  silk,  the  same  shape,  but  a  little  smaller  than  the  statue 
or  bust,  and  put  that  under  it.     It  will  prevent  scratching  but  will  not  show. 

Marble  Ornaments. — These  should  never  be  cleaned  with  soap  and  water.  A 
strong  solution  of  borax  will  often  clean  them  when  slightly  discolored.  If  badly 
stained  or  discolored  they  can  be  restored  by  using  a  paste  made  of  2  parts  com- 
mon washing  soda,  and  1  part  each  of  powdered  chalk  and  powdered  pumice 
stone. 

Artificial  Marble.— -This  is  made  with  plaster  of  paris,  ground    glass,  and . 
milk,  which,  when  thoroughly  dried,  can  be  rubbed  smooth  with  sand  paper,  and 
then  polished  with  emery  and  oil. 

Marble  may  easily  be  colored  beautiful  tints.  A  solution  of  nitrate  of  silver 
gives  a  deep  color.  Nitro-muriate  of  gold  gives  a  beautiful  violet  purple.  A  solu- 
tion of  verdigris  gives  a  clear  green.  Solutions  of  dragon's  blood  give  a  beautiful 
red.  Orpiment  dissolved  in  ammonia  gives  a  yellow.  Verdigris,  boiled  in  wax, 
and  applied  hot,  gives  a  fine  emerald. 

Slate.  — Some  people  prefer  slate  hearths  to  marble,  as  they  are  not  soiled  so 
easily  and  are  more  readily  kept  clean.  They  can  be  washed  clean  with  warm 
water  and  a  flannel  cloth.  They  are  improved  by  being  oiled  thoroughly  with 
linseed  oil,  as  they  will  not  then  show  grease. 

Soapstone  or  Sandstone.  Hearths  are  often  made  of  these.  To  clean  them 
first  wash  with  clean  water;  then  take  a  piece  of  the  stone  with  a  flat  face,  3  or 
4  inches  square,  and,  having  sprinkled  on  powdered  soapstone  or  marble,  scour 
the  hearth  till  clean. 

Stone. — (1)  To  remove  grease  from  stone  steps  or  passages,  pour  strong  soda 
and  boiling  water  over  the  spot,  and  lay  on  fuller's  earth  made  into  a  thin  paste 
with  boiling  water;  leave  all  night.  Repeat  the  process  if  any  grease  remains. 
(2)  Grease  may  sometimes  be  taken  out  by  using  sand  and  very  hot  water,  with 
soap  and  soda,  and  rubbing  them  on  with  a  hard  stone.  (3)  Same  as  No.  1,  given 
for  taking  grease  from  marble. 

To  Clean  Stone  Steps,  Window -Sills,  Etc. — Wet  flannel  dipped  in  mason's  dust 
is  excellent.  Bath-brick  is  used  by  many,  and  is  good.  An  old  wash,  not  so 
white  as  the  foregoing,  but  which  does  not  so  readily  come  off,  is  1  lb.  pipe- 
maker's  clay,  1  quart  of  water  and  1  quart  of  beer  boiled  together,  and  a  bit  of 
stone  blue  added.    Wash  with  this,  and  when  dry  rub  with  a  flannel  and  brush. 

Grindstones. — Wet  the  stone  by  dropping  on  water  from  a  pot  suspended  above 
it,  and  stop  off  the  water  when  not  in  use.  Do  not  let  it  stand  in  water  when  not 
in  use,  as  that  causes  soft  spots.  Clean  off  all  greasy  tools  before  sharpening 
them,  as  the  grease  or  oil  destroys  the  grit. 

Tiles. — Wash  with  clean  soft  water,  soft  soap  and  flannel  cloths.  Have  the 
latter  free  from  grease.  Never  use  a  scrubbing  brush.  If  the  tiles  get  stained 
apply  a  little  muriatic  acid  with  a  clean  rag,  and  then  wash  thoroughly  with 
clean  water.     Take  off  grease  with  some  alkali,  like  pearlash  and  water. 

Encaustic  tiles  should  be  washed  once  or  twice  a  week  with  skimmed  milk;  it 
is  much  better  than  soap  for  them. 

Rubber. — To  soften  Old  Rubber. — When  rubber  rings,  such  as  are  used  on 
fruit  jars,  become  hard  and  brittle,  restore  them  by  soaking  in  a  solution  of  2 
parts  water  to  1  part  ammonia  or  soda;  soak  until  their  elasticity  is  restored, 
which  is  from  5  to  30  minutes  usually.  Other  old  soft  rubber  articles  can  be 
softened  the  same  way. 

Wringing -Machine  Rollers.— When  the  rubber  rollers  of  wringing-machines. 


460  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

become  sticky  or  stained  by  colored  clothes,  clean  them  with  kerosene,  or  by 
running  through  them  a  cloth  wet  with  kerosene. 

To  Prevent  India-rubber  Articles  from  Becoming  Hard  and  Cracking.— Pre- 
pare melted  parafnne  at  212°  and  put  in  the  articles,  leaving  them  from  a  few 
seconds  to  several  minutes,  according  to  their  size;  then  take  out  and  dry  in  a 
hot  room  at  212°  F. 

Rubber  hose  which  has  become  hard  can  be  softened  by  dipping  it  in  petro- 
leum; then  hang  up  for  48  hours,  letting  the  oil  drip  off;  repeat  2  or  3  times. 

To  Preserve  the  Elasticity  of  India-rubber. — Wash  it  about  5  or  6  times  a 
year  with  slightly  alkaline  water,  like  ammonia  and  water  or  soda  and  water. 

To  Cut  Rubber. — Use  a  wet  knife.  Dipping  the  instrument  used  in  soda  or 
potash  lye  will  aid  in  piercing  or  cutting  rubber  corks. 

Old  hard  India-rubber  may  be  softened  again  by  letting  the  vapor  of  carbon 
bisulphide  act  upon  it;  remove  from  the  vapor  as  soon  as  it  becomes  soft. 

Faded  rubber  goods  can  be  varnished  by  diluting  black  Japan  varnish  with 
linseed  oil  until  thin  enough  for  the  purpose;  or  use  a  thin  shellac  varnish,  colored 
with  lamp  black  for  black  goods. 

To  Mend  a  Mackintosh. — Get  at  the  store  a  piece  of  the  same  material  of  which 
the  mackintosh  is  made,  and  cut  out  a  suitable  patch.  Buy  or  make  some  India- 
rubber  cement  (we  give  recipe  elsewhere)  and  apply  a  little  on  each  side  of  the 
torn  part,  and  also  on  the  patch;  when  it  begins  to  feel  tacky,  bring  the  edges 
together,  adjust  the  patch  nicely,  and  lay  on  a  weight  to  hold  it  in  position. 
Leave  for  several  days,  until  quite  hard. 

Mend  rubber  overshoes,  etc.,  with  the  rubber  cement  given  among  the 
"Cements." 

Mackintoshes  can  without  detriment  be  carried  about  in  a  roll  or  strap,  but 
when  not  in  use  they  should  be  opened  out  so  that  the  air  can  have  access  to 
them;  if  kept  rolled  up,  they  will  become  sticky  and  unpleasant.  When  one  has 
been  wet,  spread  it  out  to  dry,  but  do  not  put  it  near  the  fire.  To  remove  spots 
of  mud  from  a  mackintosh  try  spirits  of  wine,  though  it  is  not  always  successful. 

Sponges. — To  keep  sponges  in  condition  always  squeeze  them  dry  after  use, 
and  never  let  them  stand  in  soapy  water.  Clean  them  as  follows:  (1)  When 
sponges  get  greasy  let  them  dry,  and  then  work  them  with  a  little  turpentine; 
after  a  few  minutes  wash  them  with  a  little  soap  and  water  and  a  little  soda. 
This  will  make  them  quite  clean,  with  little  trouble.  (2)  Place  the  sponge  in  a 
basin,  completely  cover  it  with  bran,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  and  cover  the 
basin  to  prevent  the  steam  from  escaping.  Let  stand  till  cold,  and  rinse  it  thor- 
oughly in  cold  water;  wring  out  all  the  water  with  a  towel,  dry,  and  it  will  be 
clean.  (3)  When  sour,  rub  fresh  lemon  juice  into  it  thoroughly;  then  rinse  it  a 
number  of  times  in  tepid  water,  and  it  will  be  sweet  and  clean.  (4)  If  washed  about 
once  a  week  in  tepid  water  containing  borax  and  ammonia,  and  then  dried  in  the 
open  air  and  sunlight,  they  will  keep  clean  and  fresh.  (5)  Prepare  a  solution  of 
water  and  potash  permanganate,  strengthened  to  a  wine  color;  soak  the  sponge  in 
this  for  some  time;  take  out,  squeeze,  and  next  immerse  in  a  solution  of  10  parts 
water  to  1  part  muriatic  acid,  and  let  soak  for  some  time;  then  squeeze  out  the 
acid  and  wash  thoroughly  in  clean  water.  Thus  treated,  even  photographic 
sponges  can  be  perfectly  cleaned  and  their  color  restored.  (6)  Either  citric  acid 
or  sulphuric  acid  (about  2  tablespoons  to  a  pint  of  water)  will  clean  sponges 
nicely.  Steep  them  about  2  hours,  and  then  wash  clean.  (7)  Soak  in  milk  12  or 
15  hours;  then  rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  and  dry. 

New  sponges  which  are  hard  and  gritty  may  be  cleaned  and  softened  for  use 
by  first  working  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  then  boiling  in  clean  water  for  %  hour, 
then  taking  out  and  working  in  cold  water  again ;  and  repeat  this  operation  3  or 
4  times,  until  the  grit  is  gone.  Do  not  boil  too  long  at  any  time,  or  the  sponge 
will  become  tender  and  rotten. 

Whalebones. — By  merely  soaking  them  for  a  few  hours  in  water,  and  then 
drying  them,  bent  whalebones  can  be  restored  and  used  again.  When  putting 
them  in  the  casings  it  is  an  excellent  idea  to  make  them  flexible  and  conform  to 
the  figure,  by  soaking  them  in  warm  water  for  a  few  minutes,  which  softens 
them. 

Tobacco  Pipes. — A  simple  and  effective  method  of  cleaning  them  is  to  fit  in  a 
thin  cork,  with  a  hole  cut  in  the  center,  and  let  the  water  from  the  faucet  run 
through  the  pipe  till  it  is  cleaned. 


All  about  the  house. 


m 


This  will  not  weaken  it  at  all. 


feope. — New  rope,  if  boiled  in  water  2  or  3  hours,  will  be  cured  of  its  annoying 
stiffness  and  made  pliable;  then  hang_it  up,  until  fully  dry,  in  a  warm  room,  and 
keep  it  from  kinking  while  drying. 
It  is  always  convenient  to  know 
how  to  fasten  ropes,  and  yet  few 
people  know  how  to  make  the  best 
knots.  We  give  a  few.  To  fasten 
a  rope  to  a  pole,  use  the  "fisher- 
man's bend,"  used  by  sailors.  To 
make  it,  pass  the  rope  twice  around 
the  pole  or  rod;  then  take  a  "half 
hitch"  around  the  long  part  of  the 
rope,  as  at  1;  then  thrust  the  end 
under  the  2  turns,  as  at  2,  3,  and 
last  loop  the  end  about  the  long 
part,  as  at  4.  The  turns  are  clearly 
shown  in  Pig.  1.  To  fasten  two  ends 
of  rope,  use  the  "sheet  bend,"  so 
called.  To  make  it,  form  a  "horse- 


Fig.  1. 
Fisherman's  Bend. 


Fig.  3. 
Carrick  Bend. 


shoe"  with  one  end  of  the  rope,  as  b.  b.;  then  pass  the  other  rope  through 
the  loop,  or  horse-shoe;  then  around  and  behind  both  parts  of  the  other  rope; 
then  back  under  itself,  as  at  1;  see  Fig.  2.  Another  good  knot  is  known  as  the 
"carrick  bend."  To  make  it,  form  one  end  of  a  rope  into  a  loop,  a.  a.,  techni- 
cally known  as  a  "bight."  Then  put  the  end  of  the  other  rope  through  the 
"bight"  as  at  1;  around  behind  the  other  rope,  as  at  2;  then  through  in  front  of 
the  other  end  as  at  3;  then  back  through  the  "bight"  as  shown  at  4;  see  Fig  3.  It 
makes  a  very  strong  knot. 


GLASS,  CHINA,  EARTHENWARE,  ETC. 

Windows. — Wash  windows  when  the  sun  does  not  shine  on  them — in  pleasant 
weather,  but  during  that  part  of  the  day  when  the  sun  does  not  strike  them  is 
the  best  time,  or  choose  a  cloudy  but  not  rainy  day.  If  the  sun  shines  on  them 
while  being  washed  they  dry  so  rapidly  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  avoid  hav- 
ing them  streaked,  because  they  dry  partially  before  they  can  be  wiped.  Wash 
the  inside  first,  and  then  the  imperfections  can  be  seen  easily  from  the  outside. 
Use  clean  rain  water,  and  add  enough  ammonia  to  make  it  feel  slippery.  Get  the 
dirt  out  of  the  corners  with  a  cloth  wrapped  over  a  piece  of  wood,  then  rinse,  and 
then  polish  the  glass  with  newspaper,  tissue  paper  or  chamois  skin;  the  two  last 
are  best.  This  is  the  best  way,  making  the  glass  beautifully  clear.  Whiting  is 
good  to  clean  windows  with;  so  is  alcohol,  and  so  is  soda.  Benzine,  with  enough 
calcined  magnesia  added  to  make  a  thick  milk,  is  excellent.  Any  of  the  above 
are  better  than  soap. 

Paint,  mortar  and  whiteivash  may  be  taken  off  of  windows  with  sharp  hot 
vinegar;  if  fresh,  cold  vinegar  will  do.  Diluted  muriatic  acid  will  cut  them  also. 
Soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  applied  with  a  flannel,  will  take  off  paint  well; 
so  will  camphene  and  sand — but  don't  scratch  the  glass.  Ammonia  is  also  used, 
and  a  mixture  of  ammonia  and  turpentine  is  good.  Scrape  it  with  the  edge  of  a 
penny  or  dime. 

Old  putty  on  windoiv  frames  can  be  easily  removed  by  first  passing  a  red  hot 
iron  over  it  to  soften  it.  Or,  apply  mixture  No.  6  given  for  removing  dry  paint 
on  wood.  Apply  thickly  on  both  sides,  and  leave  on  10  or  15  hours.  Or,  put 
on  soft  soap,  and  leave  it  on  several  hours;  it  will  soften  the  putty  enough  to  cut 
readily  with  a  knife. 

Tar  on  glass  will  be  cut  by  the  mixture  No.  6  given  for  removing  dry  paint 
on  wood.    Or,  use  3 parts  potash  and  1  part  unslacked  lime. 

When  windows  become  steamed,ov  covered  with  condensed  moisture  in  frosty 
weather,  a  very  thin  coat  of  glycerine  applied  on  both  sides  will  cure  it.  If 
rubbed  with  a  flannel  dipped  in  alcohol  it  will  keep  them  free  from  ice. 

When  a  xvindow  does  not  close  tightly  it  is  easily  remedied  by  putting  some 
putty  along  the  sill,  and  some  chalk  on  the  sash;  then  close  the  window  as  tightly 


462  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

as  possible.  The  chalk  will  prevent  the  putty  from  adhering  to  the  sash,  and 
the  putty  which  squeezes  out  may  be  scraped  away  with  a  knife.  This  will  make 
it  tight. 

Window  sills  which  are  stained  by  flower  pots  can  be  cleaned  by  scouring 
them  with  fine  wood  ashes;  then  rinse  thoroughly  with  cold  water. 

Mirrors. — These  may  be  cleaned  with  ammonia  and  water  as  explained  for 
windows.  Spirits  of  wine,  gin,  prepared  chalk,  whiting  and  tripoli  are  all  used, 
and  are  all  good.  A  muslin  bag  containing  powdered  bluing,  dusted  lightly  over 
the  glass  while  it  is  damp,  and  then  polished  off  quickly,  produces  a  fine  result. 
So  does  whiting.    Ammonia  is  the  best  thing. 

Creases  on  Mirrors. — Never  allow  a  mirror  to  be  heated  by  a  stove,  nor  let 
the  sun  shine  directly  on  it — the  amalgam  will  be  granulated  by  either,  and  give 
the  mirror  a  creased  or  scratched  appearance.  This  is  the  cause  of  the  checked 
appearance  of  their  mirrors  which  sometimes  surprises  people. 

To  Silver  Mirrors. — Spread  a  sheet  of  tin  foil  on  a  smooth  table;  then  rub 
mercury  on  it  till  the  2  metals  are  incorporated.  Lay  the  plate  of  glass  upon  it, 
and  load  it  with  weights,  which  will  press  out  the  excess  of  mercury  from  the 
tin  foil;  in  2  or  3  days  it  will  adhere  to  the  glass  and  convert  it  into  a  mirror. 
About  2  oz.  mercury  are  enough  to  cover  3  square  feet  of  glass.  For  concave  and 
convex  mirrors  an  amalgam  is  used  composed  of  2  parts  mercury,  1  part  tin,  1 
part  lead  and  1  part  bismuth. 

Clean  the  frames  of  mirrors  as  explained  for  picture  frames. 

Glassware. — To  Anneal  Class. — Dishes,  tumblers,  and  other  glass  articles, 
may  be  annealed  so  that  they  will  not  readily  break  from  sudden  changes  of 
temperature,  etc.,  thus:  put  them  in  cold  salt  water,  set  on  the  stove  and  bring 
to  a  boil;  let  boil  a  short  time,  take  off  the  stove,  and  allow  them  to  cool  slowly. 

To  Wash  Glassware. — The  best  thing  to  use  is  soft  water,  ammonia,  and  a 
chamois  skin.  Wash  it  with  the  chamois  skin,  then  rinse  it,  wring  it  dry,  and 
wipe  with  the  same  skin.  It  leaves  no  lint,  and  the  glass  will  be  beautifully 
bright.  Tissue  paper  is  the  next  best  thing  to  wipe  glass  with.  Alcohol,  soda, 
borax,  powdered  chalk  and  whiting  are  all  used  and  work  well,  but  ammonia  is 
best.    Don't  use  soap — the  other  things  are  better. 

Stains  on  Glass.—  Stains  of  tea,  lime  and  other  things  can  be  taken  off  of 
glass  by  rubbing  with  a  flannel  cloth  dampened  in  ammonia  and  dipped  in  whit- 
ing. Hydrochloric  acid  will  take  off  any  stains  from  glass,  and  nothing  else  is  so 
effective.  Take  a  basin  and  put  in  1  part  acid  and  4  parts  water,  and  let  the 
article  soak  in  it  a  few  minutes  (if  very  dirty  a  little  longer)  and  on  taking  out  it 
will  only  need  rinsing  and  drying.  Be  careful  not  to  drop  the  undiluted  acid  on 
the  clothes  or  hands. 

For  paint  stains  moisten  with  washing  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water;  let  soak 
a  little  while,  and  wash  off.    See  also  "Windows"  and  "Paint." 

Pitch  and  tar  may  be  cut  from  glass  with  a  little  sulphuric  acid. 

To  clean  glass  and  porcelain  vessels  from  the  greatest  variety  of  organic  sub- 
stances, a  mixture  of  sulphuric  acid  and  bichromate  of  potash  is  superior  to 
ether,  benzine,  or  anything  else.  This  will  also  clean  photographic  glass  plates 
when  other  things  fail. 

To  clean  parian  china  mix  together  in  boiling  water  1  part  whiting  and  3 
parts  potash,  making  it  into  a  thick  paste;  apply  to  the  china  with  a  soft  brush, 
leave  on  3  or  4  hours,  and  wash  off  with  a  sponge  and  warm  water. 

China,  majolica  and  earthenware,  which  is  disfigured  by  little  cracks  and 
checks,  may  be  restored  by  boiling  them  in  milk. 

Marking  one's  name  on  white  dishes,  etc.,  can  be  done  with  a  pen  and  common 
black  ink,  and  it  will  be  some  time  before  it  washes  off. 

China  and  Porcelain. — If  china  or  porcelain  is  discolored  with  iron,  muriatic 
acid  will  clean  it;  then  rinse  off  with  water. 

Porcelain  or  china  which  is  tea  stained  or  discolored,  by  careless  washing,  can 
be  cleaned  by  rubbing  with  a  flannel  cloth  moistened  with  ammonia  and  dipped 
in  whiting.     Or  rub  with  a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  salt. 

Cups  discolored  brown  by  using  them  for  baking,  can  be  cleaned  with  whiting 
and  flannel  as  above.  Or  rub  with  scouring  sand  or  salt. 

Carafes  and  Decanters  which  have  become  so  discolored  inside  that  shot,  sand 
or  fine  coals  will  not  cleanse  them  can  be  filled  with  finely  chopped  potato  skins; 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  463 

let  stand  3  or  4  days  and  the  skins  will  ferment;  then  rinse  with  water  and  the 
glass  will  be  clear. 

A  dirty  porcelain  sauce-pan  may  be  cleaned,  and  all  odors  of  fish  and  onions 
removed,  by  filling  half  full  of  water,  putting  in  a  moldy  lemon,  and  boiling  for 
%  hour.     Sal  ammoniac  boiled  an  hour  or  so  in  a  sauce-pan  will  clean  it  also. 

To  remove  disagreeable  odors  from  porcelain  or  china  see  what  we  recom- 
mend for  glass  bottles. 

Porcelain  sauce-pans  may  be  cleaned  by  filling  them  half  full  of  water,  putting 
in  some  borax,  and  boiling;  if  any  stains  are  left  scour  with  soap  and  borax  on  a 
cloth;  or  use  whiting,  scouring  sand,sapolio  or  brick  dust.    Repeat  if  necessary. 

A  browned  porcelain  kettle  may  be  nicely  cleaned  by  boiling  peeled  potatoes 
in  it.  If  anything  becomes  burned  onto  such  a  kettle,  put  in  wood  ashes  and 
water  and  boil  %  hour;  then  scour  with  brick  dust  or  sand;  repeat  if  necessary. 

Preserve  jars  can  be  cleaned  by  letting  water  containing  soda  or  ammonia  soak 
in  them.    Stains  may  be  removed  as  advised  for  vinegar  cruits  and  decanters. 

Tumblers. — Do  not  put  tumblers,  which  have  contained  milk,  directly  into 
hot  water,  as  it  makes  the  milk  adhere  to  the  glass  so  that  it  is  difficult  to  re- 
move; rinse  them  first  in  tepid  water. 

Glass  Globes,  to  Clean. — Rub  them  inside  with  a  damp  cloth,  dipped  in  powdered 
pumice  stone;  rinse  and  dry  with  a  chamois  skin.  Borax  is  also  used,  but  is 
not  so  good. 

To  Clean  Vinegar  and  Sauce  Cruets—  Proceed  as  advised  for  decanters — 3d 
method. 

To  Frost  Glass. — Take  equal  parts  of  Epsom  salts  and  sour  beer  and  boil 
them  together;  paint  this  on  the  glass  while  hot.  It  can  be  washed  off  readily 
when  desired. 

Imitation  of  Ground  Glass. — Prepare  a  hot  saturated  solution  of  Epsom  salts, 
Glauber's  salts,  or  sal  ammoniac.  Apply  either  to  the  glass  with  a  brush  while 
hot,  and  on  cooling  it  will  form  a  beautiful  and  perfect  screen.  Let  the  water 
take  up  all  the  salt  it  will  possibly  dissolve  to  make  the  saturated  solution.  Four 
sided  prisms  will  be  formed  by  the  Epsom  salts;  six  sided  prisms  by  the  Glauber's 
salts,  and  thread  like  crystals  by  the  sal  ammoniac. 

Decanters.  To  clean  them:  (l)Take  a  handful  of  tea  leaves  and  1  or  2  table- 
spoons of  vinegar;  shake  well  together,  and  put  into  any  furred  glass,  shake  it 
about  and  it  will  clean  it  nicely.  (2)  If  stained  with  port  wine,  put  in  some 
crushed  egg  shells  or  charcoal,  and  some  warm  water  and  pearlash,  to  which  a 
little  fresh  slacked  lime  is  added.  Shake  it  about  till  the  stains  are  gone.  (3) 
Soak  in  warm  soda  and  water  for  hours;  then  use  a  brush  to  scrub  the  dirt  out 
of  the  cut  work  outside.  Cut  a  potato  into  small  dice,  put  some  inside,  with 
some  warm  water,  and  shake  till  the  stains  disappear;  then  rinse  in  cold  water 
and  drain  until  dry.  (4)  The  crust  from  port  or  other  wine  may  be  cut  out  with 
a  little  muriatic  acid,  diluted  and  left  in  for  some  time. 

Incrustations  or  Coatings  Caused  by  Hard  Water. — These  may  be  removed 
from  a  carafe,  or  any  glass,  china,  or  porcelain  ware,  by  rinsing  it  with  water  to 
which  a  little  hydrochloric  (muriatic)  acid  is  added;  it  cuts  the  alkaline  incrust- 
ations so  that  it  easily  comes  off. 

Bottles,  to  Clean. — Make  a  lye  by  boiling  equal  quantities  of  soda  and  quick- 
lime. When  cold,  put  this  in  the  bottles  with  crushed  egg  shells,  small  pieces 
of  marble,  charcoal  or  crushed  bones,  and  shake.  Coarse  sand  and  tacks  are 
sometimes  used,  but  are  liable  to  scratch  the  glass.  Afterwards  rinse  and  drain 
thoroughly,  then  warm,  and  blow  into  the  bottles  with  a  pair  of  bellows  to  dry 
them.  They  will  be  as  bright  as  new.  Shot  are  often  used,  but  as  the  lead  is 
liable  to  stick  to  the  glass  it  is  not  as  good  as  the  other  things  recommended 
above.  Hot  soapsuds  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of  the  lye  but  does  not  leave 
the  glass  as  bright. 

Bottles  if  oily  or  otherwise  greasy  should  not  be  washed  with  water,  but 
should  have  some  strong  alkali,  like  pearlash,  put  in  them;  then  wipe  them  out 
with  tow  or  cloth  on  a  wire.  Diluted  nitric  or  sulphuric  acid  will  also  elean  oily 
flasks. 

Bottles  soiled  with  resin,turpentine,  or  resinous  varnishes,  can  be  washed  with 
a  strong  alkaline  solution,  and  wiped  out  with  tow  or  cloth  on  a  wire.  Or  use  sul- 
phuric or  nitric  acid. 


464  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

To  Clean  a  Photographic  "Silver  Bottle."— Pour  in  a  strong  solution  of  potas* 
sium  cyanide  (a  deadly  poison),  shake  a  few  times,  pour  out,  rinse  2  or  3  times 
with  clear  water,  and  the  bottle  will  be  perfectly  clean. 

To  remove  disagreeable  odors,  like  those  from  musk  or  cod-liver  oil,  put  in  some 
hot  olive  oil  or  sesame;  also  flax-seed  meal,  or  any  of  the  oily  seeds,  when  pow- 
dered and  mixed  with  water,  answer  the  purpose  excellently.  Mustard  or  bitter 
almonds  will  remove  many  odors  from  bottles  or  glass. 

Bottles  which  have  contained  petroleum  should  be  washed  with  a  thin  warm 
milk  of  lime;  it  forms  an  emulsion  with  the  petroleum  and  removes  every  trace  of 
it.  If  washed  a  second  time  with  the  milk  of  lime  and  a  little  lime  chloride  added, 
even  the  smell  will  be  completely  removed. 

In  packing  bottles  they  may  be  prevented  from  breaking  by  slipping  India 
rubber  bands  over  them,  which  keep  them  from  touching  each  other. 

To  Remove  Glass  Stoppers. — (1)  Tapping  the  stopper  on  a  piece  of  wood,  first 
on  one  side  and  then  the  other,  will  often  start  it.  (2)  Dip  one  end  of  a  cloth  in 
hot  water  and  wrap  it  around  the  neck  of  the  bottle;  the  heat  expands  the  neck 
and  the  stopper  can  be  removed,  but  remove  the  stopper  as  soon  as  the  neck 
expands,  and  before  the  heat  expands  the  stopper  also.  (3)  Apply  oil,  water,  or 
muriatic  acid  to  the  top  of  the  neck  around  the  stopper;  then  warm  near  the  fire 
for  a  time.  (4)  Inverting  a  bottle  for  2  or  3  nights  in  a  pan  of  water  deep  enough 
to  cover  its  neck  merely,  will  often  succeed  when  other  means  fail.  (5)  Put 
vinegar  in  a  tumbler,  insert  the  neck  and  leave  for  a  while;  then  apply  the  hot 
cloth  as  above,  and  it  will  often  start.  (6)  When  hot  water  is  not  convenient  the 
neck  can  be  heated  enough  to  release  the  stopper  by  wrapping  a  cord  once  around 
and  "sawing"  back  and  foith. 

Corks. — When  corks  are  too  large  to  go  in  readily,  let  them  soak  in  hot  water 
until  softened  a  little.  They  can  be  made  air  and  water  tight  by  keeping  them 
for  5  minutes  in  melted  paraffine,  but  hold  them  completely  under  with  a  screen 
or  other  device. 

For  a  water-tight  cement  for  corks,  see  the  rubber  cement  given  among  our 
cements. 

To  preserve  corks"  from  insects,  dip  the  heads  of  bottles,  after  being  corked, 
into  quicklime,  slacked  into  a  paste,  and  let  it  harden  on.  Petroleum  is  some- 
times used,  but  is  not  so  good. 

To  Cut  Glass. — A  simple  and  easy  way  to  cut  glass  bottles,  etc.,  is  to  wind 
cotton  twine  around  them  2  or  3  times,  just  below  where  they  are  to  be  cut  in 
two;  then  saturate  the  twine  with  turpentine  or  alcohol,  by  dropping  it  on  slowly, 
and  then  set  it  on  fire.  When  nearly  burned  out,  pour  on  a  little  cold  water.  The 
glass  will  separate  as  evenly  as  if  cut  with  a  diamond.  Or,  make  a  mark  with  a 
file  where  you  want  to  begin  the  cut,  then  take  a  poker  or  iron  with  the  end 
pointed,  heat  it  red  hot,  and  starting  at  the  file  mark,  draw  it  along  the  glass;  a 
crack  will  follow  wherever  the  iron  is  carried.  Old  bottles  may  in  this  way  be 
converted  into  jelly  jars,  etc.  Window  glass  held  under  water,  can  be  cut  with  a 
strong  pair  of  shears,  although  it  is  not  generally  known. 

To  Pulverize  Glass. — Heat  it  red,  and  at  once  plunge  it  into  cold  water;  the 
sudden  cooling  makes  it  pulverize  more  readily. 

Earthenware  and  stoneware  before  being  used,  should  be  put  in  cold  water, 
brought  to  a  boil  for  a  short  time,  and  then  taken  off  the  fire  and  allowed  to  cool 
gradually.  If,  when  the  water  is  boiling,  some  wheat  or  rye  bran  is  thrown  in, 
it  will  preserve  the  glazing  so  that  salt  and  acid  will  less  readily  destroy  it. 

Crockery  ornamented  with  gilt  bands,  flowers,  etc.,  should  be  washed  as 
quickly  as  convenient,  rinsed,  and  left  to  drain  until  dry— it  should  not  be  wiped. 

Varnish  for  Earthenware  Vessels. — Take  equal  quantities  of  soda  and  pulver- 
ized glass,  mix  and  dry  it  over  a  strong  fire;  have  the  vessel  hot  also  when  it  is 
applied. 

Spectacles. — Wipe  them  with  an  old  silk  handkerchief  or  chamois  skin,  as  that 
will  not  scratch  them.  If  slightly  soiled,  breathe  on  the  glass  and  wipe  it;  if 
much  soiled,  wash  with  ammonia,  which  is  the  best  thing  to  use.  Be  careful  not 
to  bend  the  frames,  as  that  will  alter  the  focus  of  the  lenses,  and  the  eyes  will 
suffer  as  a  result. 


All  about  the  house\  465 

lamps,  matches,  etc. 

Lamps. — A  lamp  should  be  kept  scrupulously  clean.  The  receiver  should  be 
emptied  of  the  old  oil  occasionally  and  cleaned  out.  The  best  way  is  to  put  in 
hot  soda  and  water  and  some  crushed  egg-shells,  and  shake  well;  this  will  clean 
off  all  incrustations;  then  empty  it  out,  and  dry  it  perfectly,  for  if  any  water 
remains  the  lamp  will  sputter.  When  lamps  stand  for  hours  half  filled  or  less, 
an  oil  vapor  rises  which  mingles  with  the  air  in  the  upper  part  of  the  lamp  and 
forms  an  explosive  gas.  For  this  reason  a  nearly  empty  lamp  should  not  be 
lighted.  Many  of  the  lamp  explosions  are  caused  by  ignorance  and  carelessness 
in  this  regard.  Fill  lamps  daily,  so  that  there  may  be  no  room  in  them  for  this 
explosive  gas,  and  fill  them  in  the  daytime,  and  not  at  night  near  a  lighted  lamp. 
An  oil.  lamp  should  not  be  filled  quite  full,  nor  allowed  to  burn  too  low.  If  the 
oil  has  been  stored  in  a  cold  place  and  the  receiver  is  filled  full,  as  the  oil  warms 
it  will  expand  and  run  over. 

Never  turn  down  a  light  for  economy's  sake.  Nothing  is  saved,  as  the  oil  will 
feed  up  the  wick  faster  than  it  is  consumed,  and  it  will  smoke  or  smell,  or  both, 
and  become  a  distinct  source  of  danger,  as  the  lamp  heats  rapidly.  If  a  dim 
light  is  wanted  in  a  sickroom,  it  is  better  to  set  the  lamp  in  another  room,  or 
shade  it,  than  to  turn  it  down.  When  the  edge  of  the  flame  is  orange  color,  proper 
combustion  is  not  taking  place.  Dirty  burners,  badly-fitting  wicks,  and  neglect 
about  filling  are  the  3  principal  things  to  guard  against.  Burn  any  rags  which 
are  used  about  lamps  and  thus  saturated  with  oil,  to  prevent  any  possibility  of 
spontaneous  combustion. 

The  wick  should  fit  the  burner  perfectly,  and  should  neither  be  too  thick,  too 
thin  nor  too  narrow;  if  only  a  little  too  wide  1  or  2  threads  can  be  pulled  out 
near  the  selvage  edge  without  harm.  Wicks  should  be  changed  often  or  they 
will  become  clogged  and  prevent  the  free  passage  of  the  oil.  They  can  be  washed 
in  strong,  hot  soapsuds,  adding  ammonia  to  the  rinsing  water,  if  it  is  desired  to 
clean  and  use  them  again.  Soaking  a  wick  in  vinegar  and  then  drying  it  thoroughly 
before  use,  will  prevent  its  smoking.  A  wick  clogged  with  oil  may  also  be 
cleaned  by  boiling  it  in  vinegar  and  water;  dry  thoroughly  before  using  it. 
Wicks  steeped  in  a  concentrated  aqueous  solution  of  tungstate  of  soda,  and  then 
dried  thoroughly  in  the  oven,  will  be  almost  indestructible.  A  wick  should  be 
long  enough  to  just  touch  the  bottom  of  the  lamp. 

The  best  way  of  trimming  a  wick  is  to  turn  it  down  to  nearly  a  level  with  the 
wick  tube,  and  then  rub  across  it  with  the  finger  or  a  match;  this  is  better  than 
cutting  it  with  scissors.  If  the  light  burns  unevenly,  it  is  because  the  wick  is 
trimmed  unevenly.  Trim  the  wick  square  across,  and  any  little  unevenness  not 
removed  by  the  finger  can  be  trimmed  off  with  scissors.  Be  very  careful  not 
to  let  the  charred  part  of  the  wick  fall  into  the  burner  when  trimming  it. 

The  burners  should  be  cleaned  once  a  month.  Wash  them  in  soap  and  water, 
and  then  boil  them  for  a  little  while  in  soda  and  water.  Some  people  use  for  this 
purpose  the  water  in  which  beans  have  been  boiled,  and  it  answers  very  well. 
Then  rinse  the  burners,  and  dry  them  perfectly,  before  the  wicks  are  put  in. 
Nickel  burners  may  be  boiled  as  well  as  brass  ones.  Rubbing  burners  every  few 
days  with  whiting,  or  with  kerosene  on  a  woolen  cloth,  will  clean  them  well.  The 
little  air  holes  should  be  kept  open  to  secure  a  good  draught  of  air,  for  a  plenty 
of  fresh  air  is  essential  to  a  good  blaze.  Much  of  the  trouble  with  student-lamps, 
and  other  similar  and  costly  lamps,  is  that  the  oil  which  accumulates  in  the  cup 
below  the  wick  is  not  emptied  out;  it  should  be  done  every  day  to  secure  a  clear 
flame. 

Burn  None  but  the  Best  Kerosene. — You  can  test  it  by  pouring  a  little  in  a 
saucer;  apply  a  lighted  match  or  taper,  and  if  it  does  not  ignite  readily  it  is  good. 
Keep  oil  in.  a  cool,  dark  place. 

When  a  lamp  is  lighted  turn  it  up  gradually  so  as  not  to  heat  the  chimney  too 
suddenly;  then  turn  it  as  high  as  it  will  go  with  a  white  flame,  and  without 
smoking.  When  a  lamp  is  put  out  leave  the  wick  down  below  the  top  of  the 
tube;  otherwise  the  oil  will  work  up  the  wick  and  run  over  on  the  burner  and 
lamp  and  make  them  greasy. 

Lamp  Chimneys  and  Shades. — If  the  chimneys  are  put  into  cold  water  to 
which  some  common  table  salt  is  added,  then  heated  gradually  and  well  boiled 


466  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

for  x/i  to  1  hour  and  then  allowed  to  cool  slowly,  they  will  crack  less  easily  and 
be  much  more  durable.  Keep  all  lamp  glasses  very  bright  and  clear.  Ammonia 
and  water  is  the  best  thing  for  washing  chimneys — much  better  than  soapsuds 
which  makes  them  look  dull;  if  only  slightly  soiled  breathe  on  them  and  then 
wipe.  The  steam  from  the  nose  of  a  rapidly  boiling  tea-kettle  cleans  them  well. 
A  piece  of  sponge  on  a  flexible  whalebone  is  as  good  as  anything  for  cleaning  the 
inside  of  either  chimneys  or  lamps. 

Smoked  lamp  glasses  washed  until  the  stains  are  gone  in  warm  soda  and 
water  to  which  a  little  ammonia  is  added  will  look  as  bright  as  new.  Lamp  chim- 
neys which  have  been  neglected  and  become  much  spotted  and  stained  may  be 
cleaned  thoroughly  with  hydrochloric  or  sulphuric  acid  and  soda.  For  wiping 
chimneys,  newspaper,  tissue  paper  or  chamois  skin  are  much  better  than  cloth. 

To  clean  ground  glass  shades  use  curd  soap,  soda  and  water;  scrub  them 
with  a  nail  brush,  and  it  will  take  off  all  smoke;  rinse  them  thoroughly  with  clean 
tepid  water  and  set  aside  to  drain  and  dry,  but  do  not  wipe  them  with  anything, 
nor  touch  them  with  the  hand  till  dry.  Warm  them  a  few  minutes  by  the  fire 
before  screwing  them  in  place;  handle  them  with  a  clean  cloth  or  paper. 

After  filling  and  cleaning  lamps  and  chimneys  roll  up  pieces  of  newepaper 
in  the  form  of  cones  and  set  over  them;  it  will  keep  off  dust  and  dirt,  and  when 
wanted  they  will  be  clean  and  bright. 

A  cement  for  lamp  tops  may  be  made  by  boiling  3  parts  resin  and  ]  part  of 
caustic  soda,  in  5  parts  of  water.  This  forms  a  soap,  which  when  mixed  with  half 
its  weight  of  plaster  of  paris,  sets  in  about  %  hour.  It  is  very  adhesive  and  not 
permeable  by  kerosene  -it  is  made  much  better  than  the  plain  plaster  of  paris 
ordinarily  used.  Or,  use  melted  alum;  apply  as  soon  as  melted;  as  soon  as  cold 
the  lamp  may  be  used. 

Substitute  for  Lamps. — The  following  ingenious  substitute  for  a  lamp  maybe 
made  by  any  one,  and  it  is  especially  useful  about  magazines  or  where  inflam- 
mable materials  are  kept.  Take  an  oblong  vial  of  the  clearest  and  whitest  glass, 
and  put  into  it  a  piece  of  phosphorus  about  the  size  of  a  pea.  Pour  some  olive 
oil,  heated  to  the  boiling  point,  upon  the  phosphorus,  filling  the  vial  about  % 
full;  then  cork  it  tightly.  To  use  the  light,  remove  the  cork  and  allow  the  air  to 
enter  the  vial,  and  then  re-cork  it.  The  empty  space  in  the  vial  will  become  lumi- 
nous, the  light  equaling  that  of  a  lamp.  When  the  light  grows  dim,  renew  it  by 
taking  out  the  cork  and  admitting  a  fresh  supply  of  air.  In  winter  it  may  be 
necessary  to  heat  the  vial  between  the  hands  to  increase  the  fluidity  of  the  oil. 
This  apparatus  may  be  used  6  months. 

Smoked  Ceilings. — The  smoke  of  a  kerosene  lamp  may  be  washed  from  a  ceiling 
with  a  strong  solution  of  soda  and  water. 

Matches.  — These  should  be  safely  guarded  and  kept  in  metallic  boxes  out  of 
the  way  of  children  and  mice;  many  accidents  will  be  prevented  thereby. 

Scratching  Matches. — It  is  very  annoying  to  have  heedless  people  scratch 
matches  on  wood  work,  and  when  one  mark  is  made  others  quickly  follow,  but  if 
the  spot  is  rubbed  with  a  flannel  saturated  with  any  liquid  vaseline,  people  can 
neither  light  matches  there  nor  scratch  the  paint,  however  often  they  may  try; 
and,  singularly  enough,  the  petroleum  causes  the  existing  marks  to  soon  disap- 
pear, at  least  on  dark  paint. 

Candles. — A  candle  which  it  is  desired  to  burn  all  night  in  a  sickroom  or 
elsewhere,  should  have  finely  powdered  salt  put  on  top  until  it  reaches  the 
blackened  part  of  the  wick;  thus  treated,  even  a  small  piece  will  burn  all  night, 
with  a  mild,  steady  flame. 

In  blowing  out  a  candle  hold  it  well  above  the  mouth  and  blow  it  out  from 
below,  instead  of  holding  it  down  in  the  usual  way,  and  blowing  it  out  from 
above;  this  will  prevent  it  from  smouldering. 

To  Clean  Candlesticks. — Instead  of  heating  them  before  the  fire  to  melt  the 
grease,  pour  on  boiling  water;  this  will  soften  it  enough  to  be  rubbed  off  with  a 
rag,  without  danger  of  melting  the  solder  or  doing  other  injury;  then,  if  china, 
wash;  if  plated,  polish  with  plate  powder. 

METALS  AND  METAL  WARE. 
Aluminum. — Kerosene  or  tripoli,  applied  while   the  vessels  are  warm,  are 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  467 

about  the  best  things  for  cleaning  aluminum  cooking  utensils.  Discolorations 
of  any  kind  can  be  removed  by  putting  &  oz.  nitric  acid  in  1  quart  of  water,  and 
boiling  it  hard  in  the  vessel  for  %  hour.  This  metal  is  not  affected  by  the  sulphur 
compounds  which  blacken  silver  so  much.  It  does  not  rust  or  corrode,  and  it 
retains  its  luster  in  the  air,  whether  moist  or  dry,  for  any  length  of  time.  Hot 
water  produces  not  the  slighest  effect  on  it,  but  alkaline  solutions  act  on  it,  and 
therefore  spoons,  forks,  etc.,  can  be  cleaned  and  whitened  with  soap;  or  soap  and 
water  made  strong  with  soda,  or  with  liquid  ammonia,  or  with  a  heated  solution 
of  potash.  The  strong  or  caustic  alkalies  consume  it  rapidly,  but  as  the  mild 
acids,  like  acetic,  malic,  citric,  or  oxalic  which  are  found  in  foods  do  not  affect  it, 
it  is  admirably  adapted  for  making  cooking  utensils.  It  is  without  doubt  the 
best  metal  at  present  known  for  that  purpose.  It  is  acted  on  slowly  by  muriatic 
acid,  but  sulphuric  or  nitric  acid  does  not  affect  it,  unless  the  nitric  acid  is  very 
hot. 

Brass. — To  Clean. — There  are  a  great  variety  of  methods  for  cleaning  brass; 
we  give  some  of  the  best  and  most  convenient  methods  for  our  reader's  use. 
(1)  Rub  with  strong  vinegar;  then  remove  the  acid  by  washing  with  hot  water,  and 
rub  with  dry  whiting.  (2)  Mix  pulverized  rottenstone  into  a  paste  with  oil  of  tur- 
pentine; rub  on  with  a  soft  leather,  leave  a  few  minutes,  and  wipe  with  a  soft  cloth. 
(3)  Dissolve  1  oz.  oxalic  acid  in  1  pint  soft  water;  rub  on  with  a  piece  of  flannel,  and 
polish  off  with  another  dry  piece.  (Use  only  occasionally.)  (4)  Use  the  water  pota- 
toes have  been  boiled  in  (peels  and  all);  strain  it,  and  wash  the  brass  in  it.  (Said 
to  be  good.)  (5)  Apply  whey  or  sour  milk  several  times;  then  scour  it  with  a 
woolen  cloth  dipped  in  ashes.  (6)  Rub  it  with  rottenstone  and  oil;  finish  with 
dry  whiting  or  ammonia.  (7)  Pour  very  strong  ammonia  over  it;  then  scrub  it 
thoroughly  with  a  brush;  in  5  minutes  it  should  become  as  clear,  bright  and 
shiny  as  new  metal;  then  rinse  in  clear  water  and  wipe  dry.  An  excellent  way  to 
clean  old  brass.  (8)  A  small  portion  of  sal  ammoniac,  beaten  into  a  fine  powder, 
moistened  with  soft  water,  rubbed  over  brass  ornaments,  heated  over  a  charcoal 
fire,  and  rubbed  dry  with  bran  or  whiting,  will  give  them  the  brilliancy  of  gold.  (9) 
Use  salt  and  vinegar  mixed.  For  greatly  discolored  brass  kettles,  first  scour 
with  ashes  and  soap;  then  boil  the  vinegar  and  salt  in  the  kettle;  then  rub,  and 
rinse  thoroughly.  (10)  Take  1  oz.  oil  of  vitriol,  %  giH  sweet  oil,  1  gill  pulverized 
rottenstone,  1%  pints  rain  water;  mix,  and  shake  well  when  used.  Apply  with  a 
rag;  then  polish  well  with  flannel  or  chamois.  (11)  Take  1  part  starch,  12  parts 
powdered  rottenstone,  5  parts  sweet  oil,  and  2  parts  oxalic  acid,  and  mix  them 
all  into  a  stiff  paste  with  cold  water.  Rub  this  on  with  flannel,  and  polish  with  a 
leather. 

The  great  objection  made  to  all  the  strong  acid  mixtures  used  for  clea.ning  brass  is  that 
they  eat  away  the  metal,  which  is  true.  It  is  objected  to  the  rottenstone  preparations, 
when  used  about  machinery  and  Instruments,  that  they  work  into  joints,  etc.,  and  clog 
their  action. 

To  Clean  Lacquered  Brass. — -Lay  it  in  hot  strong  soda  and  water,  and  brush 
it  well  over  with  soap.  Lift  it  out  and  lay  it  as  it  is,  all  soapy,  in  a  pan,  and  pour 
absolutely  boiling  water  on  it.  Let  it  steep  for  1  or  2  minutes,  then  lift  it  out 
and  throw  it  into  cold  water  to  enable  you  to  handle  it;  then  dry  it  carefully.  It 
should  require  neither  rubbing  nor  polishing.  If  the  brass  is  very  dirty,  boil  it 
in  the  hot  soda  water. 

To  Clean  Indian  Brass. — Use  very  fine  brick  dust,  moistened  with  lemon  juice. 

For  Brass  Inlaid  Work. — Mix  tripoli  and  linseed  oil;  polish  with  felt  dipped 
in  this  mixture.  If  inlaid  in  rosewood  or  ebony  use  a  paste  of  rottenstone,  a 
pinch  of  starch,  sweet  oil  and  oxalic  acid,  mixed  with  water. 

To  Remove  Varnish  from  Brass. — Much  of  the  brass  in  use  is  coated  with 
shellac  varnish;  this  protects  the  brass  while  it  is  unimpaired,  but  it  sometimes 
gets  broken.  To  remove  it,  use  a  cloth  wet  with  alcohol;  the  brass  can  be 
cleaned  with  this,  and  a  fresh  coat  of  shellac  varnish  applied. 

To  Color  Brass.— A  mixture  of  muriatic  acid  and  alum  dissolved  in  water  im- 
parts a  golden  color  to  brass  articles  that  are  steeped  in  it  a  few  seconds. 

To  Frost  Brass-toork. — Boil  the  article  in  caustic  potash,  rinse  in  clean  water, 
and  dip  it  in  nitric  acid  till  all  oxide  is  removed;  then  wash  quickly,  dry  in  box- 
wood sawdust,  and  lacquer  it  while  warm. 

Lacquer  for  Brass. — (1)  Take  %  oz.  gamboge,  1%  oz.  aloes,  8  oz.  shellac  (fine), 


468  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

wine  spirit,  1  gallon;  mix  and  dissolve.  (2)  Take  1  lb.  turmeric,  2  oz.  annatto, 
12  oz.  each  of  shellac  and  gum  juniper;  wine  spirit,  12  oz.,  mix  and  dissolve. 
(3)  Take  of  seed-lac,  dragon's  blood,  annatto,  and  gamboge,  each  2  oz.;  saffron, 
J£  oz.,  spirits  of  wine,  5  pints. 

To  Clean  Scale  Pans. — Pour  sufficient  ammonia  in  the  pan  to  cover  the  bot- 
tom, and  rub  briskly  until  dry  with  a  handful  of  dry  pine  sawdust.  For  very 
dirty  pans,  take  about  1  drachm  potash  bichromate,  powder  it  in  a  mortar,  mix 
with  it  two  or  three  times  its  bulk  of  concentrated  sulphuric  acid,  and  add  twice 
as  much  water.  With  this  rub  the  pans  (having  a  care  for  the  fingers),  rinse 
well,  and  finish  with  rottenstone. 

To  Remove  Lime  from  Sap  Pans. — Muriatic  acid,  used  in  the  proportion  of  1 
lb.  acid  to  1  gallon  water  (used  cold),  will  cut  the  scale;  it  can  then  be  removed 
with  a  brush. 

To  Clean  Brass  or  Copper. — (1)  Take  lemon  peel  or  pulp,  dip  it  in  salt,  and  rub 
copper  or  brass  articles  with  it;  rub  them  immediately  afterwards  with  a  dry, 
soft  cloth;  waste  lemon  from  lemonade,  etc.,  may  be  used.  (2)  Mix  together  1 
oz.  oxalic  acid,  6  oz.  rottenstone,  and  %  oz-  gum  arabic;  all  these  are  to  be  finely 
powdered;  then  add  1  oz.  sweet  oil  and  sufficient  water  to  form  the  mixture  into 
a  paste.  Apply  a  small  portion  to  the  article  to  be  cleaned,  and  rub  dry  with  a 
flannel  or  wash  leather. 

Copper  and  brass  articles  are  not  as  well  adapted  to  general  cooking  purposes  as  many 
other  metals,  because  even  mild  acids  so  readily  form  poisonous  compounds  with  them. 
When  used  they  should  be  kept  scrupulously  clean. 

To  Bronze  Brass  or  Copper. — (1)  Boil  the  article  in  a  strong  solution  of  nitrate  of 
copper.  (2)  The  repeated  application  of  alternate  washes  of  dilute  acetic  acid  and 
exposure  to  the  fumes  of  ammonia  will  give  a  very  antique  looking  green  bronze. 

Brittania  Metal. — To  clean  this,  rub  the  articles  first  with  sweet  oil  on  a  piece 
of  flannel;  next  wash  with  strong  warm  soapsuds;  rub  them  dry,  and  polish 
with  chamois  leather  and  whiting.    The  polish  thus  given  lasts  for  a  long  time. 

Bronze. — In  caring  for  bronze  ordinarily,  careful  dusting  and  keeping  free 
from  dirt  is  all  that  is  required.  (1)  If  greased  or  spotted,  wash  with  a  strong 
warm  soapsuds;  then  rub  gently,  and  dry  thoroughly.  (2)  Clean  it  with  spirits 
of  turpentine.  (3)  A  dilute  solution  of  caustic  alkalies  removes  overlying  dirt 
and  allows  the  green  patina  to  become  visible.  Where  the  metal  was  not  origin- 
ally oxydized,  the  alkali  simply  cleans  it,  and  does  not  promote  any  formation 
of  green  rust.  (4)  To  restore  a  bronze  tea-urn,  turned  black  in  parts,  will  depend, 
to  a  great  extent,  on  the  metal  and  the  color.  First  clean  the  surface  with 
whiting  and  water  or  crocus  powder,  until  it  is  polished;  then  cover  with  a  paste 
of  graphite  and  crocus,  mixed  in  the  proportions  that  will  produce  the  desired 
color.  Heat  the  paste  over  a  small  charcoal  fire.  If  the  bronzing  has  been  produced 
by  a  corrosive  process,  try  painting  a  solution  of  potassium  sulphide  over  the 
cleaned  metal.    (5)  If  rusted  badly,  or  much  defaced,  have  it  rebronzed. 

Bronzing  Liquid. — Thoroughly  clean  the  article  to  be  bronzed;  then  warm  it 
gently,  and  brush  it  over  with  the  following  preparation:  1  dr.  sal  ammoniac, 
15  grains  of  oxalic  acid,  and  1  pint  of  vinegar,  all  well  mixed  together.  Rub  dry, 
and  then  repeat  the  application  till  the  required  tint  is  obtained. 

Lacquer  for  Bronze. — Dissolve  %  lb.  shellac  and  %  lb.  sandarach  in  3  quarts 
alcohol;  add  enough  extract  of  dragon's  blood  and  turmeric  to  produce  the 
desired  color. 

Bronzing  Process  for  Porcelain,  Stoneware  and  Composition  Picture  and 
Looking-glass  Frames. — First  apply  a  thin  solution  of  water-glass,  using  a  soft 
brush;  then  dust  on  bronze  powder,  and  dust  off  any  excess  not  adhering,  by  a 
few  gentle  taps.  Then  heat  it,  to  dry  the  silicate,  and  the  bronze  will  be  firmly 
attached.  The  bronze  may  then  be  polished  by  burnishing,  using  preferably 
agate  tools. 

Coins. — These  can  be  quickly  cleansed  by  immersion  in  strong  nitric  acid,  and 
immediate  washing  in  water.  If  very  dirty,  or  if  corroded  with  verdigris,  it  is 
better  to  give  them  a  rubbing  with  %  oz.  pure  potash  bichromate,  1  oz.  sulph- 
uric acid,  1  oz.  nitric  acid;  rub  over,  wash  with  water,  wipe  dry,  and  polish  with 
rottenstone  or  chalk. — Lyle. 

Copper  Articles.— (1)  Vinegar  and  salt,  mixed,  will  clean  copper.  (2)  Use  soft 
soap  and  rottenstone,  made  into  a  stiff  paste  with  water,  and  dissolve  by  gently 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  469 

simmering  in  a  water-bath  or  double  boiler;  rub  it  on  with  a  woolen  rag,  and 
polish  with  dry  whiting  and  rottenstone;  finish  with  dry  whiting  on  a  chamois 
skin  or  flannel.     See  also  "Brass  and  Copper." 

Door  Plates. — To  polish  these  without  soiling  the  wood  or  stone  around  them 
cut  a  hole  in  a  stiff  cardboard  the  exact  size  of  the  plate,  and  slip  it  over  before 
polishing.  The  easiest  way  to  clean  them  is  generally  to  use  ammonia  and  water, 
and  then  dry  with  chamois  skin,  and  then  the  pasteboard  shield  is  not  needed. 

Gas  Chandeliers  and  Brackets. — Theseshould  be  dusted  regularly.  To  clean 
them:  (1)  If  lacquered,  wipe  them  over  lightly  with  a  soft  flannel  dipped  in  a 
preparation  of  equal  parts  of  stale  beer  and  vinegar.  (2)  If  gilded,  clean  like 
gilded  picture  frames.  (3)  To  thoroughly  clean  a  lacquered  chandelier  take  it  to 
pieces,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  strong  soda  lye;  then  brush  them 
over  with  a  soft  brush,  pass  them  through  a  strong  solution  of  potassium  cyanide 
(deadly  poison),  wash  through  a  tubful  of  boiling  water,  dry  in  clean  sawdust, 
wipe  bright  with  a  wash  leather  and  relacquer.  (4)  The  accumulation  of  grease 
near  the  burner  can  be  removed  by  using  the  vinegar  and  stale  beer  mentioned 
above. 

A  Convenient  Way  to  Rebronze  Gas  Fixtures. — Mix  bronze  powder  with 
any  transparent  varnish  like  amber,  gum  demar  or  copal;  do  not  mix  more  than 
you  are  going  to  use  at  once.  The  best  way  is  put  a  little  of  the  varnish  in  a 
small,  flat  saucer,  and  some  of  the  loose  powder  next  it,  and  mix  it  with  the  brush 
as  you  use  it. 

German  Silver. — To  clean  this :  (1)  Use  whiting  made  into  a  paste  with  water, 
and  rubbed  on  with  flannel;  then  rub  dry  with  a  chamois  skin.  (2)  Rottenstone, 
rouge  or  crocus,  mixed  with  sweet  oil,  and  rubbed  well  on;  polish  off  with  a  clean 
chamois  skin  and  dry  whiting.  (3)  Dissolve  ~%  oz.  of  alum  and  3^  oz.  of  cream  of 
tartar  in  34  pint  of  vinegar;  add  1  pint  boiling  water;  wash  with  this  when  much 
discolored.  (4)  If  discolored  or  spotted  with  vinegar  or  other  acids,  wash  it  and 
then  scour  with  sweet  oil  and  rottenstone. 

Gilt  Mountings. — These  articles  should  not  be  rubbed;  if  slightly  tarnished, 
wipe  them  off  with  apiece  of  canton  flannel;  or,  better,  remove  them,  if  possible, 
and  wash  in  a  solution  of  %  oz.  borax  dissolved  in  1  lb.  water,  and  dry  them  with 
a  soft  linen  rag;  their  luster  may  be  improved  by  heating  them  a  little  and  rub- 
bing with  a  piece  of  canton  flannel.  Unless  carefully  cleaned  they  soon  lose  their 
luster. 

Gilded  articles  of  any  kind  may  be  cleaned  as  explained  for  gilt  picture 
frames  (which  see). 

Gold. — To  Clean. — (1)  Make  a  solution  of  20  drachms  lime  chloride,  20  drachms 
soda  bicarbonate,  5  drachms  common  salt,  in  5*^  pints  distilled  water;  keep  in 
well-closed  bottles.  Allow  the  article  to  be  cleaned  to  remain  in  this  solution  a 
short  time  (which  is  to  be  heated  only  in  case  of  very  obstinate  dirt)  then  take 
out,  wash  with  spirit,  and  dry  with  sawdust.  (2)  To  remove  the  brown  tarnish 
from  colored  gold,  wet  tissue  paper  in  ammonia  and  rub  gently  until  the  tarnish 
disappears;  then  wash,  rinse,  and  dry  in  sawdust.  If  this  does  not  do  it,  take  it 
to  a  jeweler.  (3)  Polish  with  rouge  and  oil  on  a  piece  of  chamois  leather.  (Be 
careful  of  any  jewelry  containing  pearls,  etc.    See  article  on  "Care  of  Jewelry.") 

To  Clean  Gold  and  Silver  Lace. — (1)  Take  finely  crushed  stale  bread  crumbs, 
and  mix  it  in  %  as  much  powdered  blue;  spread  this  plentifully  on  the  lace  and 
it  will  soon  become  bright;  then  brush  off  the  crumbs  with  a  piece  of  flannel,  and 
rub  with  chamois  and  it  will  look  like  new.  (2)  Clean  gold  lace  by  rubbing  it 
with  a  soft  brush  dipped  in  roche  alum,  burnt,  and  sifted  to  a  fine  powder.  (3) 
Dab  silver  lace  with  a  paste  of  heavy  magnesium  and  water;  let  it  dry  and  brush 
it  off  with  a  soft  brush.  (4)  For  either,  use  a  weak  solution  of  potassium  cyan- 
ide (say  15  grains  to  1  oz.  of  water);  apply  with  a  soft  sponge  and  wash  off  with 
clean  water.  The  solution  is  very  poisonous  and  must  be  used  with  great  care. 
It  can  be  made  stronger  if  needed  to  clean  well. 

Iron  and  Steel. — To  Clean. — (I)  Rust  on  iron  may  be  removed  by  rubbing  it 
with  kerosene.  (2)  For  Russia  iron  apply  blacking  and  kerosene  mixed,  and  it 
will  look  nearly  new.  (3)  For  steel,  take  turpentine  and  sweet  oil,  equal  parts, 
and  thicken  with  emery  powder  to  a  paste;  rub  it  on  with  flannel,  and  rub  it  dry 
with  chamois  leather.  If  this  is  not  enough,  finish  with  a  little  dry  emery  pow- 
der on  flannel.    (4)  For  bright  steel,  mix  1  tablespoon  of  turpentine    and  1  of 


470  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

crocus  powder;  rub  on  quickly,  and  rub  off  again  as  quickly;  polish  with,  a 
chamois  leather  and  it  shuold  look  bright  as  a  mirror.  (5)  To  take  rust  out  of 
steel  rub  it  with  sweet  oil;  leave  on  1  or  2  days;  then  rub  with  finely-powdered 
unslacked  lime  until  the  rust  is  gone.  (6)  Make  whiting  into  a  paste  with  a  few 
drops  of  alcohol;  apply  thickly,  allow  to  dry  on,  then  rub  off  and  polish  with  a 
soft  leather.  This  will  remove  tarnishes.  (7)  Mix  vienna  lime  to  a  paste  with 
alcohol  and  rub  steel  or  iron  with  it,  using  a  chamois  skin,  cork,  or  piece  of  soft 
pine  wood.  (8)  For  badly-rusted  steel,  scour  with  salt  and  hot  vinegar;  then 
wash  off  thoroughly  with  boiling  hot  water,  dry  with  a  flannel  cloth,  and  warm 
at  the  stove;  then  rub  with  flannel  dipped  in  sweet  oil. 

To  clean  guns  and  rifles  which  are  leaded:  (1)  Stop  up  the  nipple  with  a 
little  wax,  if  it  is  a  muzzle  loader,  or  if  a  breech  loader  insert  a  cork  in  the 
breech  rather  tightly;  then  pour  some  quicksilver  into  the  barrel,  and  put  an- 
other cork  in  the  muzzle,  and  roll  it  up  and  down  the  barrel,  shaking  it  about 
for  a  few  moments.  The  mercury  and  lead  will  form  an  amalgum,  and  leave  the 
barrel  as  clean  and  free  from  lead  as  the  day  it  was  new.  (2)  Wet  the  tow  on 
the  cleaning  rod  with  turpentine;  it  will  remove  lead  almost  as  well  as  quick- 
silver. 

Russia  Iron,  to  Clean.— -Take  a  piece  of  beeswax  about  as  large  as  a  hickory- 
nut;  shave  fine,  and  cut  with  %  pint  of  gasoline;  rub  on  with  a  cotton  cloth,  and 
polish  with  flannel.    Do  not  mix  or  use  near  a  fire. 

Russia  Iron,  to  Black  and  Keep  from  Rust-—(1)  Take  Kpint  best  black  var- 
nish (asphaltum  is  best);  1  pint  black  Ceylon  lead;  add  enough  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine to  mix  it  into  a  paint.  Apply  like  other  polish  to  a  stove,  and  rub  at 
once  with  a  brush.  Have  the  iron  cold  when  applied.  (2)  Melt  together  3  parts 
lard  and  1  part  resin.  A  thin  coat  will  keep  Russia  iron  or  grates  from  rust 
when  not  in  use,  even  in  damp  places.     Good  also  for  steel,  copper  or  brass. 

Steel  Ornaments,  to  Clean.— { ! )  Rub  them  with  a  mixture  of  paraffine  oil  and 
emery;  then  rub  them  with  putty  powder  sifted  through  muslin,  and  mixed 
with  a  little  oil.  (2)  Lime  moistened  with  water  and  placed  on  the  ornaments  as 
a  paste  for  VI  hours,  and  then  brushed  off,  is  a  good  restorer. 

To  Preserve  Steel  from  Rust. — (1)  Dissolve  white  beeswax  in  benzole;  paint 
this  on  the  article;  the  benzole  evaporates  leaving  a  thin  coating  of  wax  on  the 
steel.  Keep  the  solution  in  a  tightly  corked  bottle  as  it  is  very  volatile.  (2) 
First,  clean  the  article,  then  dust  it  over  with  powdered  quicklime,  and  leave  till 
wanted  for  use.  Coils  of  piano  wire,  thus  covered  have  kept  for  years.  Appli- 
cable to  any  bright  iron  or  steel  goods.  (3)  Iron  blades  immersed  in  a  solution 
of  carbonate  of  soda  or  potash,  and  then  exposed  to  a  damp  atmosphere  will  keep 
from  rust  for  three  years.  (4)  Melt  1  oz.  resin  in  1  gill  linseed  oil,  and  while  hot, 
pour  on  them  2  quarts  of  paraffine  oil.  Apply  this  mixture  with  a  rag  or  soft 
brush.  (5)  Mix  with  mutton  fat  %  Pmt  of  oil  varnish,  §-  pint  of  well  rectified 
spirits  of  turpentine.  Apply  this  varnish  with  a  sponge-  Metals  thus  varnished 
will  retain  their  metallic  brilliancy  and  not  contract  rust.  (6)  A  thin,  even  coat 
of  sweet  oil  applied  to  steel  surfaces  keeps  them  from  rust.  (7)  Melt  pure  mut- 
ton suet,  dip  in  the  steel  of  knives,  forks,  etc.,  let  it  cool,  wrap  tissue  paper 
around  them,  then  canton  flannel  or  thick  paper,  and  they  can  be  stored  indefi- 
nitely without  rusting. 

To  Clean  a  File.-  Pour  on  some  benzine,  and  rub  it  with  a  stiff  or  scratch 
brush. 

Swords,  etc.,  may  be  rubbed  with  powdered  brick  dust  and  oil;  rub  dry  with 
brick  dust;  polish  with  crocus  and  leather. 

To  Keep  Steel  Ear-rings,  Brooches,  Etc. — First  clean,  and  then  keep  in  pow- 
dered quicklime  and  they  will  suffer  little  from  rust.  Unslacked  lime  is  an 
excellent  thing  to  clean  steel  articles  with. 

To  Polish  Iron  or  Steel. — Mix  2  oz.  fine  emery  with  1  oz.  soft  soap;  rub 
iron  or  steel  with  this  on  wash  leather,  and  it  will  give  it  a  fine  polish. 

To  Remove  Paint  from  Iron. — Use  a  paint  softener  made  of  1  lb.  lime,  4  lbs. 
potash  and  6  quarts  water.    Excellent. 

To  Prevent  Iron  from  Rusting. — Warm  it  till  you  cannot  comfortably  hold 
yonr  hand  on  it;  then  rub  it  well  with  clean  white  wax;  heat  it  again  until  the 
wax  has  soaked  in;  then  rub  the  iron  with  a  piece  of  coarse  cloth,  and  in  future 
it  will  not  rust. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  471 

Galvanized  Iron  Articles. — These  are  best  cleaned  by  scouring  them  with  a 
strong  solution  of  hot  water  and  common  washing  soda.  Galvanized  iron  attracts 
soap  in  such  a  way  as  to  cause  a  deposit  which  is  disagreeable  and  unsightly; 
hence  it  is  better  to  use  tinned  vessels  for  holding  any  soapy  solutions. 

A  Word  of  Caution. — In  galvanized  iron  vessels,  water  readily  acts  on  the 
zinc  coating,  and  forms  a  poisonous  oxide  of  zinc.  Hence  for  drinking  water,  or 
for  any  cooking  purposes,  galvanized  iron  utensils  of  any  kind  should  never 
be  used. 

Pewter. — Keep  pewter  vessels  free  from  damp;  wipe  well,  and  dry  before  the 
fire  after  use.  To  clean:  (1)  Make  a  paste  of  whiting  and  kerosene  or  sweet 
oil;  rub  with  a  flannel  dipped  in  this  paste.  (2)  Wash  in  hot  water  with  fine 
silver  sand;  then  polish  with  soft  leather.  (3)  Scour  with  fine  emery  on  flannel 
or  chamois.  (4)  Use  a  paste  of  rottenstone  and  oil,  with  just  a  little  ammonia 
added.  First  wash  the  article  with  soap  and  water,  then  rub  with  this  paste,  and 
then  polish  with  soft  leather. 

Nickel. — To  clean  this  use  whiting,  mixed  with  ammonia,  water,  or  kerosene; 
rub  it  on  with  a  flannel;  then  rub  dry  with  a  clean  flannel  or  chamois  skin. 
Rouge  also  polishes  it  well,  and  common  soda  cleans  it  well. 

Silver  and  Plated  Ware. — Hot  soapsuds  will  make  all  silverware  look  dull— a 
little  ammonia  in  the  water  used  for  washing  it  is  much  better.  For  cleaning 
silverware:  (1)  Ammonia  and  alcohol  are  both  excellent;  rub  either  on  the  arti- 
cle, then  polish  with  a  little  whiting  (sifted  thoroughly  free  from  all  grit)  on  a 
chamois  skin.  (2)  One  of  the  simplest  and  best  things  is  to  lay  the  silver  in  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk;  it  will  take  off  all  sulphur  stains,  etc.,  and  make  it  look  like 
new.  (3^  East  Indian  jewelers  use  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  no  plate  powder  what- 
ever. (4)  Save  the  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled;  it  is  better  if 
salted,  and  also  if  kept  a  few  days  until  sour;  use  it  hot,  rub  the  silver  with  it, 
rinse,  and  polish  with,  chamois.  (5)  A  rag  or  brush  moistened  with  a  saturated 
solution  of  soda  hyposulphite  cleanses  even  strongly  oxydized  silver  surfaces  in  a 
few  minutes,  without  the  application  of  any  powder;  then  rinse  it  off  and  polish 
with  a  clean  chamois.    It  is  cheap  and  easily  applied. 

Plate  Bags  for  Daily  Use. — These  are  convenient,  and  may  be  prepared  as 
follows:  Boil  soft  rags  (nothing  better  for  this  than  the  tops  of  old  cotton  stock- 
ings) in  a  mixture  of  new  milk  and  hartshorn  powder,  in  the  proportion  of  1  oz. 
of  powder  to  1  pint  of  milk;  boil  for  5  minutes;  wring  them  for  a  moment  in  cold 
water,  as  soon  as  they  are  taken  out,  and  dry  them  before  the  fire.  With  these 
rags  rub  the  plate  briskly  as  soon  as  it  has  been  well  washed  and  dried;  a  most 
beautiful  deep  polish  will  be  produced.    Better  to  use  than  powders. 

Egg  and  Mustard  Stains. — These  may  be  removed  from  silver  spoons  by  using 
a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  salt. 

Stained  and  Spotted  Silverware. — Whenever  silver  plate  from  long  standing 
and  neglect  is  stained  and  spotted  so  that  it  is  not  readily  cleaned  by  the  usual 
plate  powders,  mix  1  part  sal  ammoniac  with  16  parts  vinegar;  rub  the  stains  or 
spots  gently  with  the  mixture  and  they  will  soon  disappear.  Then  wash  well 
with  soap  and  water. 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains  from  Silver  or  Plated  Ware. — Rub  with  a  paste  of 
chloride  of  lime  and  water;  then  wash  well,  and  wipe. 

To  Clean  Silver  Dress  Trimmings. — If  slightly  tarnished  cover  them  with 
dry  magnesia;  leave  it  on  for  2  hours,  then  rub  it  in,  and  brush  it  off  with  a  hard 
brush.     If  they  are  very  dirty  the  magnesia  must  be  first  used  wet,  and  then  dry. 

Good  Polishes  for  Silver  or  Plated  Ware. — These  may  be  made  as  follows:  (1) 
Alcohol  and  whiting  (freed  from  grit)  mixed  together  makes  a  simple  and  ex- 
cellent plate  powder,  or  use  ammonia  and  whiting  mixed;  apply  it,  let  it  dry,  and 
then  rub  it  off  with  chamois  skin.  (2)  Take  1  oz.  each  of  cream  of  tartar,  muri- 
ate of  soda  and  alum;  boil  them  in  1  gal.  or  more  of  water.  It  gives  silverware  a 
beautiful  silvery  whiteness. 

If  any  plate  powder  is  used  in  cleaning  silverware  it  must  be  carefully 
brushed  out  of  the  chased  work  with  a  soft  brush. 

A  Caution. — Many  plate  powders  contain  quicksilver;  all  such  powders  are 
injurious  and  should  never  be  used. 

Mercury  or  quicksilver  when  applied  to  silver  or  gold  disorganizes  the 
metal  and  makes  it  very  brittle;  the  remedy  is  to  heat  the  metal  in  an  alcohol  or  gas 


472  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

flame;  the  mercury  evaporates  and  the  metal  is  as  good  as  ever.    Then  polish  off 
the  tarnish. 

When  silverware  is  laid  away,  wrap  it  first  in  tissue  paper,  and  then  in  un- 
bleached canton  flannel;  then  wrap  it  in  stout  wrapping  paper  or  an  oil  silk  bag, 
and  as  nearly  air  tight  as  possible,  to  exclude  the  gaseous  vapors  and  dampness 
found  in  most  houses.  Camphor  gum  wrapped  in  the  canton  flannel  with  the 
silver  helps  keep  it  bright.  Flannel  or  woolen  should  not  be  used  to  wrap  up 
silver,  as  these  contain  sulphur  which  tarnishes  it. 

A  silver  tea  or  coffee  pot  not  in  daily  use  should  have  the  cover  propped  open 
a  little,  when  it  is  put  away,  by  laying  a  little  stick  across  the  top;  this  will  ad- 
mit the  air  and  prevent  its  becoming  musty;  by  rinsing  it  with  a  little  boiling 
water  it  can  then  be  used  at  any  time  at  once. 

To  Plate  with  Silver. — Take  1  part  precipitated  silver  powder,  2  parts  com- 
mon salt,  and  2  parts  cream  of  tartar;  mix  these  ingredients  well  together,  and 
rub  well  on  the  article  to  be  silvered;  then  wash  it  lightly  in  alkalized  water. 
Silver  may  thus  be  applied  to  any  metal,  and  old  plated  candlesticks,  cruets,  etc., 
may  be  greatly  improved  in  appearance. 

Tinware. — Never  use  acids  to  clean  tinware;  they  attack  the  metal  and  remove 
it  from  the  iron  on  which  it  forms  a  thin  coat.  To  clean  tin:  (1)  Saturate  a 
cloth  with  kerosene,  dip  it  in  whiting  and  scour  with  it.  The  best  way.  (2) 
Blackened  ware  may  be  scoured  with  a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  soda;  then  rinse, 
and  wipe  dry.  (3)  Rub  with  rottenstone  and  sweet  oil;  finish  with  soft  leather. 
(4)  Use  kerosene  oil  alone.  (5)  Use  whiting  dry,  or  moistened  a  little.  (6) 
Moisten  the  tin,  rub  on  dry  flour  with  the  hand,  and  then  scrub  till  bright  with 
newspaper.  (7)  To  clean  tinware  after  it  has  held  petroleum,  scrub  with  hot 
water  and  soap. 

Keep  all  tinware  perfectly  dry;  it  soon  becomes  tarnished  in  moist  air. 

To  Prevent  Rust  on  Tin. — Rub  thoroughly  with  lard,  covering  every  part; 
then  heat  it  well  in  a  hot  oven.  Even  if  used  constantly  in  water,  this  will  pro- 
tect it  for  some  time. 

Musty  coffee  or  teapots,  or  pie-plates,  pots  or  pans  that  have  been  used  to  bake 
in  and  have  become  rancid,  may  be  made  sweet  and  clean  as  follows:  Take  cold 
water  and  add  either  wood  ashes  or  soda;  then  put  this  in  the  article,  or  the 
article  in  this,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  bring  it  to  a  boil;  boil  for  a  time,  then  let 
it  cool,  and  scrub  thoroughly  with  hot  soapsuds,  using  a  small  scrub  brush; 
then  scald  in  water  a  couple  of  times,  rinse  and  dry. 

New  tinware,  before  being  cooked  in,  should  have  soda  water  boiled  in  it;  then 
wash  it  with  soapsuds,  rinse,  and  dry  it  thoroughly. 

A  Caution. — Because  of  the  readiness  with  which  salt,  acids,  etc.,  attack  tin- 
ware, it  should  be  used  cautiously  in  cooking. 

Constant  scouring  of  tinware  with  ashes,  rottenstone,  whiting,  etc.,  wears  it 
out;  if  washed  ordinarily  with  hot  water  and  soap,  and  about  once  a  week  with 
hot  water  and  soda,  it  will  need  scouring  rarely. 

To  Remove  the  Lids  from  Tin  Cans. — First  start  the  solder  by  placing  live 
coals  on  top;  an  old  case  knife  will  then  remove  the  lid;  be  careful  not  to  start 
the  side  seam. 

To  Mend  Tinware. — Scrape  and  clean  the  parts,  rub  on  powdered  resin,  lay 
on  solder,  and  hold  a  hot  poker  or  soldering  iron  on  it.  Or,  clean  the  spot,  apply 
soldering  fluid,  place  a  piece  of  bright  tin  of  the  required  shape  over  the  hole, 
melt  some  solder  in  an;  iron  spoon,  and  pour  it  around  the  edges.  Or,  cut  tin  foil 
the  required  size;  wet  the  surfaces  with  a  feather  dipped  in  sal  ammoniac;  heat 
with  a  hot  iron  till  the  tinfoil  is  melted.  Or,  scrape  the  place  clean,  apply  solder- 
ing fluid,  lay  on  a  piece  of  solder,  and  hold  over  a  lamp  till  the  solder  melts  and 
fills  the  hole.  It  is  quite  easy  to  mend  tinware,  and  people  in  the  country  will 
find  it  a  great  advantage  often  to  be  able  to  mend  their  own  ware.  People  in 
towns  can  send  to  a  tinsmith  more  easily. 

A  Soldering  Fluid. — This  is  easily  made  by  taking  a  glass  bottle,  putting  in 
hydrochloric  acid,  and  adding  small  pieces  of  zinc  until  it  will  dissolve  no  more. 
Apply  it  with  a  stick  when  ready.    Do  not  get  it  on  the  clothes  or  hands. 

A  good  solder  for  tinware  is  the  lining  of  tea  chests,  as  it  is  made  of  tin  and 
lead  in  about  the  right  proportions. 

Lacquer  for  Tin. — Put  3  oz.  of  seed-lac,  2  drachms  of  dragon's  blood,  and  1 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  473 

oz.  of  turmeric  powder  into  a  pint  of  well  rectified  spirits;  let  stand  2  weeks, 
agitating  at  least  once  each  day;  then  strain  through  muslin.  Apply  it  to  tin- 
ware which  is  intended  to  imitate  brass. 

Any  good  lacquer  laid  on  tin  gives  it  the  appearance  of  brass  or  copper.  Color 
lac  varnish  with  turmeric,  which  will  give  it  the  color  of  brass;  or  with  annatto 
which  will  give  it  the  color  of  copper. 

Japan  for  Tinware. — (1)  Mix  8  oz.  oil  of  turpentine,  2  oz.  copal  varnish,  and 
1  drachm  of  camphor.  (2)  Use  common  copal  varnish.  Either  of  these  may  be 
colored  with  lampblack  or  vermilion,  and  will  then  make  a  good  japan. 

Wire  Table  Ware. — This  can  be  kept  bright  by  washing  in  water,  using  a  soft 
cloth  and  a  little  soap;  it  will  not  need  scouring  if  properly  cared  for.  Whiting 
is  excellent,  if  anything  is  used. 

Zinc. — To  clean  zinc:  (1)  Dip  cotton  cloth  in  kerosene  and  rub  the  articles; 
then  rub  dry  with  another  cotton  cloth.  (2)  A  quick  process  is  to  use  creosote 
or  glycerine,  mixed  with  a  little  dilute  sulphuric  acid.  (3)  The  water  in  which 
codfish  has  been  soaked  is  good  for  scouring  the  zinc  under  the  stove.  (4)  Lime 
water  will  clean  zinc  well.  (5)  Dilute  hydrochloric  acid  will  clean  small  zinc 
articles  quickly.  Rub  large  articles,  like  refrigerators,  with  raw  spirits;  then 
rinse  with  water,  and  finish  with  whiting.  (6)  Take  %  lb.  powdered  pumice 
stone,  2  oz.  emery  powder,  1%  quarts  soft  water,  1  oz.  nitric  acid;  shake  together 
well  before  using.     This  answers  well  for  tin  also. 

Polishing  Materials. — Whiting  used  dry,  or  moistened  with  water,  is  good  for 
almost  any  unlacquered  metal,  even  silver  plate.  Rottenstone  mixed  with  oil, 
or  flour  of  emery,  used  either  dry  or  mixed  with  oil,  are  suitable  for  almost  any 
metal  not  lacquered,  except  silver  or  gold.  Rouge,  dry,  or  mixed  with  oil,  is  best 
for  gold  or  silver.     Lime  is  good  for  steel  articles. 

An  Excellent  Polishing  Powder. — Thoroughly  mix  6  oz.  of  carbonate  of  mag- 
nesia with  1  oz.  of  Paris  rouge  (oxide  of  iron).  Apply  it  with  a  soft  cloth, 
dampened  in  alcohol  or  water,  and  rub  till  nearly  dry;  then  polish  with  chamois 
skin  to  finish.  This  powder  was  first  made  by  Thomas  Weigler,  the  German 
chemist,  and  has  been  sold  under  various  high  sounding  names.  It  is  suitable 
for  either  gold,  silver,  iron,  steel,  copper  or  tin.    Excellent. 

Plate  Powder. — Take  3  lbs.  gilder's  whiting,  2  oz.  white  castile  soap,  1  oz. 
aqua  ammonia,  34  oz.  olive  oil,  1  gill  warm  water.  Dissolve  the  soap,  and  add  % 
the  whiting  and  the  other  ingredients;  mix'well,  and  then  add  the  remainder  of 
the  whiting;  mix  stiff — if  too  stiff  add  more  water.  Make  into  cakes.  Use 
on  tin,  copper,  silver,  nickel,   mirrors,  etc. 

Care  of  Jewelry.— To  clean  gold  jewelry,  wash  it  in  a  basin  of  soft  water  to 
which  a  little  ammonia  or  baking  soda  has  been  added;  use  a  soft  tooth-brush 
and  good  soap.  Then  rinse  off,  and  throw  into  a  box  of  sawdust — boxwood  is 
best.  Shake  up,  and  when  dry  take  out,  shake  off  the  sawdust  and  wipe  with  a 
chamois  skin.  It  will  look  beautifully  bright.  Pearls  should  never  be  washed 
in  this  way,  however,  as  it  may  injure  them. 

Tarnished  Gold.—  This  may  be  renovated  by  applying  warm  spirits  of  wine 
with  a  soft  brush  or  flannel,  and  its  brilliancy  will  be  restored  again. 

To  Clean  Pearls. — (1)  Soak  them  in  warm  water  in  which  bran  has  been 
boiled,  with  a  little  salts  of  tartar  and  alum,  rubbing  them  gently  between  the 
hands;  when  the  water  is  cold  renew  the  application  till  any  discoloration  is 
removed;  rinse  in  lukewarm  water,  and  lay  them  on  white  paper  in  a  dark  place 
to  cool.  (2)  For  ordinary  cleaning,  when  not  much  soiled,  wash  them  with  a 
soft  brush  in  lukewarm  water  containing  just  a  trace  of  ammonia.  (3)  Put 
them  on  a  clean  linen  cloth,  scatter  on  salt,  tie  up  the  cloth  with  a  string,  and 
sop  it  in  lukewarm  water  (not  hotter  than  that)  till  the  salt  is  dissolved  and 
washed  out;  then  take  them  out,  rinse  in  clear  water,  and  dry  with  a  soft  flannel 
cloth. 

'Pearls. — These  should  be  kept  in  dry,  common  magnesia,  instead  of  the  cotton 
wool  used  in  jewel  cases.  Kept  in  this  way  they  will  never  tarnish  nor  lose  their 
brilliancy.  Pearls  are  the  most  delicate  of  stones  and  require  careful  treatment. 
They  will  be  spoilt  if  exposed  to  much  heat;  vinegar  or  acids  quickly  destroy 
them.     Never  wear  them  when  engaged  in  housework. 

To  Clean  Diamonds,  Emeralds,  or  any  of  the  brilliant  precious  stones,  apply 
precipitated   sulphur,    moistened    with    spirits  of    wine,  and    rubbed  with  a 

29 


474  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

soft  brush.  Or,  clean  them  with  ammonia,  the  principal  thing  being  to  get  them 
perfectly  clean. 

Jet  jewelry  may  be  mended  with  black  sealing  wax. 

To  Clean  Coral  Jewelry. — Wash  it  with  hot  water,  with  good  soap  and  soda; 
then  rinse  clean,  and  when  dry  rub  with  chamois  leather. 

Artificial  Coral.— Melt  clear  yellow  resin,  and,  while  melted,  mix  in  thoroughly 
the  best  vermilion,  in  the  proportion  of  1  part  vermilion  to  4  parts  of  resin. 
Stones,  twigs,  raisin  stalks,  etc.,  dipped  in  this,  will  look  like  coral  when  cold. 

Silver  Ornaments.— -These  are  best  kept  in  fine  arrowroot,  and  completely 
covered  with  it.  For  cleaning  silver  ornaments  see  "Silverware"  and  "Silver 
Lace." 

STOVES,  CHIMNEYS,  FIRES,    ETC. 

Stoves. — Never  fill  a  stove  with  coal  above  the  top  of  the  linings,  and  keep  it 
free  from  clinkers.  When  the  coal  is  put  on  for  the  night  do  not  close  the  stove 
at  once,  but  let  it  burn  till  the  coal  is  warmed  through;  then  close  it  up  and 
there  will  be  no  escaping  gas;  nor  will  the  fire  go  out.  Never  let  the  ashes  ac- 
cumulate in  the  ash-pan  until  they  reach  the  grate — that  will  burn  it  out.  Run 
a  range  so  as  to  get  all  the  heat  needed  without  having  the  top  red  hot;  that  will 
warp  the  covers,  and  if  a  little  water  strikes  them  they  will  crack.  Keep  a  stove 
well  blacked.  In  buying  a  stove,  furnace,  or  any  heater,  get  one  large  enough  to 
heat  up  readily  in  the  coldest  weather,  so  that  ordinarily  it  will  not  be  run  to  its 
full  capacity.  It  will  wear  longer  and  be  more  economical.  Buying  too  small  a 
heater  is  a  common  mistake. 

A  range  or  cooking  stove  placed  opposite  a  door  or  window  will  be  subject  to 
draughts  which  will  prevent  the  oven  from  baking  well;  hence  arrange  a  place 
for  it  elsewhere,  if  possible.  To  cook  well,  keep  an  even,  steady  fire.  To  let  it 
die  down  is  poor  economy  as  the  heat  is  wasted,  on  adding  fresh  fuel,  until  the 
oven  or  stove  is  brought  up  to  the  right  temperature  for  cooking.  Clean  out  the 
slides  under  the  oven  of  a  cooking  stove  as  often  as  once  a  week — twice  a  week  is 
much  better  if  there  is  much  cooking  to  be  done.  With  a  properly  regulated  fire, 
this  will  insure  uniform  results,  and  the  oven  can  be  relied  on  to  bake  well.  The 
inside  of  a  range,  including  the  oven  flues,  ought  to  be  cleaned  regularly  at  least 
once  a  month. 

To  get  the  best  results  out  of  a  stove  or  range,  and  to  economize  both  fuel  and 
time,  requires  intelligent  treatment.  Every  woman  should  understand  the  prin- 
ciples on  which  her  stove  is  constructed  and  its  scientific  management.  Preserve 
and  study  the  card  of  directions  which  goes  with  every  range.  Observing  the 
following  rule  will  save  coal,  and  1  hod  of  coal  will  often  last  6  hours  without  re- 
plenishing: When  the  fire  begins  to  burn,  close  the  smoke  damper;  as  soon  as 
most  of  the  coal  is  bright,  close  the  other  dampers.  If,  however,  a  very  hot  oven 
is  needed  leave  open  the  slide  at  the  bottom  of  the  grate.  When  less  heat  is 
needed  in  the  oven,  or  on  top  of  the  range,  open  the  checks  and  close  the  drafts; 
when  more  heat  is  needed  reverse  the  process,  i.  e.,  close  the  checks  and  open  the 
drafts. 

Most  cooking  stoves  are  altogether  too  low.  If  they  were  raised  on  a  box  or 
platform  to  the  height  of  the  kitchen  table,  or  a  little  higher,  it  would  save  many 
a  back-ache.    Try  it,  sister,  and  see. 

Blacking  Stoves. — A  stove  well  cared  for  will  not  need  blacking  more  than 
once  a  month.  Then  clean  off  the  old  blacking  with  kerosene  before  applying 
the  fresh  coat.  Then  black  it  well,  and  wipe  off  with  a  clean  rag.  Always  keep 
a  cloth  at  the  side  of  the  stove  to  wipe  up  grease  spots  before  they  burn  in.  Each 
morning,  while  the  fire  is  coming  up,  go  over  the  stove  with  a  polishing  brush. 
In  this  way  you  will  have  a  fine  appearing  stove  always. 

Where  blacking  will  not  stick  to  a  stove  burned  red,  if  a  little  vinegar,  or  fat 
fried  from  salt  pork,  is  added  to  the  water  used  to  dissolve  the  blacking,  it  will 
adhere  all  right;  or,  wet  the  red  parts  and  let  them  rust  a  little;  then  the  black- 
ing will  adhere. 

In  blacking  a  stove  there  are  various  simple  additions  which  improve  the  re- 
sult: (1)  Use  turpentine,  or  turpentine  and  a  little  sugar,  to  mix  ordinary  black- 
ing.   It  prevents  rust  and  makes  the  polish  more  durable  and  glossy.    (2)    Mix 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  475 

the  polish  with  soapsuds;  or  shave  good  hard  soap  into  the  polish  and  boil  them 
together.  (3)  Mix  the  polish  with  vinegar  and  just  a  little  sugar.  (4)  After 
blacking  a  stove  apply  linseed  oil  with  a  woolen  rag,  and  keep  a  slow  fire  till  it 
dries.  It  prevents  rust  and  gives  a  lasting  varnish.  (5)  Mix  the  blacking  with 
cold  coffee  instead  of  water.  (6)  Mixing  the  blacking  with  gasoline  also  improves 
the  polish,  but  that  is  so  very  explosive  that  it  should  never  be  used  when  there 
is  a  particle  of  fire. 

A  stove  blackened  when  entirely  cold  will  retain  its  luster  much  longer  than 
one  which  is  blackened  while  warm. 

To  Make  Stove  Polish. — (1)  Take  1  lb.  black  lead  (pulverized),  1  oz.  sugar,  1 
gill  turpentine,  1  gill  water.  Mix.  This  is  the  preparation  used  by  stove  manu- 
facturers. (2)  Mix  water-glass  and  lampblack  to  about  the  consistency  of  syrup; 
apply  a  thin  even  coating  with  a  stove  brush,  and  let  dry  for  24  hours.  Then  ap- 
ply an  even  coat  of  gum  water,  mixed  with  either  black  lead  or  graphite;  now 
with  a  polishing  brush  rub  briskly  in  the  usual  way,  and  a  durable  and  beautiful 
polish  will  result. 

To  Clean  a  Dirty  Stove.— Rub  it  when  cold  with  stove  polish  mixed  with 
alum  water. 

To  polish  the  nickel  parts  of  a  stove  use  a  flannel  rag  and  whiting  wet 
with  kerosene  or  water;  or,  an  old  woolen  cloth,  dampened  and  dipped  in  the 
softest  white  ashes. 

The  stove  urn  should  be  kept  nearly  filled  with  water  as  long  as  the  stove  has 
any  fire  in  it.  It  is  an  excellent  plan  to  put  a  small  bag  of  charcoal  in  the  urn, 
and  change  the  charcoal  every  week. 

When  clinJcers  gather  on  the  fire  brick  in  stoves  or  ranges,  put  a  few  oyster 
shells  on  top  of  the  hot  coals,  and  put  a  little  coal  on  them;  they  will,  as  they 
burn  down,  scale  off  the  clinkers. 

To  Clean  the  Mica  in  Stoves  (often  mistakenly  termed  "isinglass"). — This  may 
be  cleaned  as  good  as  new  by  washing  it  with  vinegar,  or  with  vinegar  and  salt 
mixed. 

Cracks  in  stoves  may  be  stopped  with  various  cements.  One,  easily  made,  is 
to  mix  fine  wood  ashes,  salt  and  water  into  a  paste  or  mortar;  apply  while  the 
stove  is  hot.  Another  and  more  durable  filling  can  be  made  by  mixing  sal  am- 
moniac and  iron  filings  or  turnings  with  water.  Yet  another  is  made  with  equal 
parts  of  finely  sifted  wood  ashes  and  powdered  clay,  mixed  with  water  and  a  little 
salt.  Apply  while  the  stove  is  cold.  Others  are  given  in  our  article  on  "Ce- 
ments." 

To  prevent  rust  in  stoves  when  put  away  for  the  summer:    (1)   Apply  linseed 
oil  as  explained  in  our  4th  method  for  blacking  stoves.    (2)  Mix  blacking  with 
kerosene  or  sperm  oil  instead  of  water,  and  black  the  stove  with  this.    (3)  With 
a  rag,  apply  a  good  coat  of  kerosene  oil  to  both  pipes  and  stoves  on  taking  them 
down,  and  store  them  in  a  dry  place. 

When  a  stove  pipe  begins  to  rust  check  it  at  once  by  rubbing  it  with  linseed 
oil;  dry  it  then  by  a  slow  fire. 

To  Preserve  Grates  and  Bright  Steel  Fenders  from  Rust:  (1)  Make  a  strong 
paste  of  fresh  lime  and  water;  with  a  fine  brush  smear  this  as  thickly  as  possible 
over  all  polished  surfaces  requiring  preservation.  All  the  grates  and  fire  irons 
in  an  empty  house  may  thus  be  kept  for  months  free  from  harm.  (2)  Rub  bright 
steel  fenders  and  fire  irons  with  mercurial  ointment,  and  leave  all  bright  parts 
well  smeared  with  it.  (3)  Rub  them  well  with  sperm  oil,  after  which  apply 
unslacked  lime.  Wrap  the  fenders  in  paper  to  keep  off  dust.  (4)  Melt  in  front 
of  the  fire  a  piece  of  raw  mutton  fat  (the  loin  fat  is  best)  and  rub  it  thickly  all 
over  bright  fenders  and  fire  irons;  then  do  them  up  in  several  thicknesses  of 
brown  paper.  The  fat  must  be  raw,  not  cooked,  and  melted  only  just  enough  to 
rub  on  well. 

Clean  steel  grates  when  necessary,  like  any  other  steel  —  see  our  article  on 
"Iron  and  Steel." 

To  clean  the  soot  out  of  a  stove-pipe  throw  some  pieces  of  zinc  on  the  hot 
coals  in  the  stove;  the  vapor  produced  will,  by  decomposition,  carry  off  the  soot, 
it  is  said. 

It  is  said  that  a  common  brine  of  salt  and  water,  poured  over  soft  coal,  will 
prevent  the  accumulation  of  soot  in  the  chimney,  and  in  the  lower  parts  of  the 
stove  which  burns  it.    We  never  tried  it. 


476  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Furnace  pipes  should  be  thoroughly  examined  every  fall.  Holes  are  liable  to 
rust  through  them,  and  the  heat  will  escape  through  these  rusted  holes  instead 
of  passing  along  in  the  pipes  to  warm  the  rooms. 

A  Hint. — A  strong  tin  box,  with  a  handle  and  cover,  in  which  to  put  the  stove 
brushes,  polish,  stove  cloths,  etc.,  will  be  a  great  convenience;  it  can  be  carried 
about  from  room  to  room,  and  when  thus  stored  away  the  shelves  will  not  be 
soiled  with  the  blacking,  etc. 

Fires  and  Fuel.— To  start  a  fire  in  a  grate  crumple  up  pieces  of  paper  into 
soft  balls,  instead  of  laying  them  in  flat,  and  put  these  in  a  layer  touching  each 
other.  Then  lay  on  3  or  4  small  sticks  of  perfectly  dry  wood  an  inch  or  two  apart; 
then  3  or  4  more  across  the  other  way,  and  so  on  alternately,  according  to  the  size 
the  fire  is  to  be.  This  allows  openings  for  a  good  draught,  which  is  absolutely 
essential  in  starting  a  fire.  Then  lay  on  small  lumps  of  coal,  as  large  lumps  do 
not  ignite  so  readily,  touch  a  lighted  match  to  the  paper  below,  and  you  will  soon 
have  a  good  Are.  In  starting  a  fire  in  a  stove  or  range  proceed  in  much  the  same 
way,  leaving  openings  in  the  kindling  wood  for  a  draught.  If  a  little  coke  is 
kept  on  hand  to  use  in  starting  a  fire,  it  will  be  a  great  convenience.  Only  a  little 
is  needed;  it  lights  readily  and  makes  an  intense  heat. 

Never  shake  a  fire  which  is  almost  out — that  will  finish  it.  Turn  on  the 
draught  instead,  and  as  soon  as  it  starts  up  a  little,  add  a  handful  of  small  coals 
on  the  red  spot;  in  this  way  you  can  revive  a  fire  almost  out.  When  a  coal  fire  is 
low,  to  let  out  the  ashes  from  below  or  heap  coal  on  top  will  put  it  out. 

To  deaden  a  coal  fire,  press  down  the  mass  from  the  top  so  as  to  make  less 
room  for  air  to  draw  through  it. 

To  revive  a  fire  in  a  grate  put  on  the  blower,  and  as  it  starts  a  little  put  on 
small  pieces  of  coal  gently  until  it  is  well  started. 

When  starting  a  fire  in  damp,  still  weather,  place  on  top  of  the  grate  pieces  of 
lighted  paper  or  shavings;  they  will  blaze  up  quickly,  heat  the  air  in  the  chimney 
and  create  an  upward  current  which  will  help  in  starting  the  fire,  and  will  draw 
the  smoke  away  from  the  room. 

When  low,  a  tablespoon  of  salt  thrown  on  a  fire  will  help  it.  A  little  sugar 
will  revive  dying  embers  and  give  a  bright  flame  at  once.  Old  corks,  and  thor- 
oughly dried  orange  and  lemon  peels,  make  excellent  fire  revivers. 

Never  pour  kerosene  oil  on  a  fire  to  revive  it — it  is  too  dangerous,  and  your 
friends  are  not  l'eady  to  bury  you  yet. 

Never  throw  away  cinders  or  half -burned  coal;  they  are  worth  as  much  as 
coal,  measure  for  measure.  Sift  them  out  of  the  ashes,  wet  them,  and  burn  them. 
Added  to  a  coal  fire  they  will  make  it  hotter  than  fresh  coal,  and  keep'it  hot  longer. 
To  throw  them  away  is  a  pure  waste. 

During  the  fall  and  winter  every  room  in  the  house  should  have  a  fire  kindled 
in  it  at  least  once  a  week,  to  prevent  dampness. 

Fire  Kindlers. — Melt  over  a  slow  fire  1%  lbs.  of  resin,  and  add  either  1  pint  of 
tar,  or  5  oz.  of  tallow;  while  hot  stir  in  as  much  as  possible  of  fine  sawdust,  or 
sawdust  and  pulverized  charcoal  mixed — either  is  good.  Then  spread  it  out, 
about  an  inch  deep,  on  a  board  sprinkled  with  charcoal,  to  cool.  When  cold, 
break  into  lumps  about  as  large  as  hickory-nuts.  They  will  light  readily  and 
burn  for  some  time. 

Burning  Buildings. — When  a  house  takes  fire  every  one  should  remember  to 
shut  all  doors,  as  open  doors  allow  flames  to  spread  too  rapidly.  Keep  the  win- 
dows closed  also.  If  hemmed  in  up-stairs  by  fire,  do  not  jump  from  a  window 
until  the  last  resort.  Tear  up  bed  clothes  or  clothing  and  make  some  kind  of  a 
rope,  tie  one  end  to  a  heavy  piece  of  furniture,  and  let  yourself  down  by  it.  If  a 
room  is  full  of  smoke  and  flame  crawl  on  the  floor,  as  there  is  less  smoke  near 
the  floor.  As  a  ready  protection  against  breathing  smoke  wet  a  handkerchief  or 
towel  and  fasten  it  around  the  face  over  the  mouth  and  nose. 

A  fire  will  be  extinguished  immediately  if  a  solution  of  pearlash  and  water  is 
thrown  upon  it. 

Fire  Hand  Grenades. — (1)  Take  20  lbs.  common  salt,  10  lbs.  sal  ammoniac,  7 
gallons  water.  Mix.  Put  this  into  thin  bottles  holding  about  a  quart,  and  seal 
up.  If  a  fire  breaks  out  throw  these  bottles  into  the  flames  hard  enough  to  break 
them.  (2)  Fill  thin  quart  bottles  with  a  strong  solution  of  common  salt.  Throw 
them  violently  into  a  fire  when  it  first  breaks  out  and  they  will  check  the  flames. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  477 

Fireproof  Solution. — Dissolve  boric  acid  in  a  hot  solution  of  tungstate  of  soda, 
which  makes  a  salt  called  borotungstate  of  soda;  materials  impregnated  with 
this  solution  are  rendered  perfectly  fireproof. 

A  Chemical  Heater. — Mix  1  lb.  of  soda  acetate  with  10  lbs.  of  soda  hyposul- 
phite. Fill  a  sheet  copper  or  other  metallic  vessel,  such  as  a  foot  warmer,  with 
the  solution,  and  seal  it  up.  When  desired  for  heating  purposes  place  the  vessel 
in  hot  or  boiling  water,  till  the  contents  are  quite  fluid.  It  possesses  the  property 
of  giving  off  the  heat  very  slowly,  and  may  be  used  as  a  source  of  warmth  for  12 
to  15  hours.  It  is  adapted  as  a  foot  warmer,  muff -warmer,  etc.,  and  where  a  fire 
is  not  admissible. 

Chimneys. — These  should  have  the  interior  surface  as  smooth  as  possible,  and 
to  obtain  the  best  draughts  they  should  be  kept  clean.  Smoky  chimneys  are  very 
generally  caused  by  being  below  the  level  of  some  adjacent  building,  or  other 
object  which  obstructs  the  free  passage  of  the  wind.  In  this  case  the  trouble 
will  be  noticed  when  the  wind  is  in  certain  directions.  The  most  reliable  remedy 
is  to  raise  the  chimney  to  the  required  height  by  brickwork  or  pipe,  although  a 
cowl  or  hood  will  often  overcome  the  difficulty.  Leaks,  holes  or  fissures  in  chim- 
ney's will  cause  sluggish  draughts.  If  2  fireplaces  draw  into  one  flue,  provision 
should  be  made  for  closing  either  one  when  not  in  use;  it  is  better  for  each  to 
have  a  separate  flue. 

Ordinarily  the  chimney  is  the  best  ventilator,  at  least  when  the  fire  is  burn- 
ing, which  keeps  up  an  upward  draft.  When  there  is  no  fire,  however,  they  often 
admit  a  current  of  cold  air  which  draws  down  them. 

When  a  chimney  takes  fire,  shut  all  doors  and  windows  and  throw  sulphur  on 
the  fire  in  the  stove  or  grate— if  thrown  on  the  grate  put  a  board  before  the  opening 
to  prevent  the  fumes  from  coming  out  into  the  room.  The  brimstone  fumes  as- 
cending the  chimney  will  extinguish  the  flames.  If  sulphur  is  not  convenient 
shut  stove  doors  and  hang  a  blanket  in  front  of  the  grate  to  check  the  draught 
as  much  as  possible,  and  throw  salt  on  the  fire;  this  will  deaden  it  down.  Never 
pour  water  down  the  chimney— it  will  spoil  the  carpet;  throw  down  salt  instead. 

Leaks  about  chimneys  may  be  stopped  up  with  the  fireproof  cement  given 
among  our  cements,  or  with  one  of  those  given  for  stopping  cracks  in  a  stove. 


PAINT,  VARNISH,  WHITEWASH,  ETC 

Faint. — Before  painting  woodwork  all  grease  spots  should  be  removed,  or  the 
paint  will  not  adhere.  To  remove  the  grease  spots  there  are  various  ways.  (1) 
Apply  whitewash;  leave  on  one  night  and  wash  off  in  the  morning.  When  fully 
dry  apply  the  paint.  (2)  Use  a  little  wet  slacked  lime  instead  of  the  whitewash. 
(3)  Wash  it  with  soda  water,  rinsing  well  afterwards.  (4)  Scour  off  with  a 
little  marble  sand. 

If  any  soapsuds  is  used  it  should  be  washed  off  thoroughly,  or  the  paint  will 
not  dry  hard.  Have  the  wood  dry  before  applying  the  paint.  When  painting  eat 
acid  fruits,  and  thoroughly  air  and  ventilate  the  rooms. 

In  giving  3  coats  of  paint,  use  about  1  lb.  paint  to  the  square  yard  on  new 
woodwork.  It  is  said  that  oil  paint  put  on  in  the  autumn  lasts  longer  than  when 
applied  at  any  other  season,  but  we  do  not  vouch  for  that.  Before  applying 
paint  stop  up  nail  holes,  etc.,  as  explained  under  "Nails"  (which  see). 

The  drying  of  paint  is  largely  dependent  on  the  temperature.  Below  the  freez- 
ing point  paint  will  often  stay  wet  for  weeks,  while  the  same  paint  if  exposed  to  a 
heat  of  120°  F.,  will  become  solid  in  a  few  hours.  A  good  supply  of  fresh  air  is  essen- 
tial. An  open  fire  in  a  newly  painted  room  is  only  beneficial  when  the  tempera- 
ture is  low;  as  a  rule  it  retards  rather  than  helps  the  drying,  because  of  the  car- 
bonic acid  gas  it  gives  off.  A  first  coat  should  be  thoroughly  dry  before  another 
is  put  on. 

To  make  old  paint  which  is  "sticky"  become  hard  and  dry,  first  apply  a  coat 
of  benzine;  leave  it  on  36  or  48  hours.  Then  take  3  parts  lacquer  and  1  part 
boilod  oil;  mix,  and  apply  a  light  coat,  if  the  paint  is  good;  if  it  is  thin,  mix  in 
more  lacquer  and  put  on  another  coat. 

To  Remove  Dry  Paint  from  Wood. — (1)  Apply  a  strong  solution  of  oxalic 
acid  (a  poison).     The  paint  soon  softens.    (2)  Wet  with  naphtha  as  often  as  re- 


m  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

quired;  as  soon  as  it  is  softened  rub  the  surface  clean.  (3)  Use  chloroform  mixed 
with  a  small  quantity  of  spirits  of  ammonia  composed  of  strong  ammoniac.  (4) 
Use  a  paste  made  of  potash  and  strong  lime;  cleanse  the  surface  afterwards  with 
vinegar.  (5)  A  handful  of  lime  put  into  a  pail  of  strong  soda  and  water,  well 
stirred,  and  laid  on  the  paint,  will  soon  soften  old  paint;  it  can  then  be  scraped 
off  easily.  (6)  Apply  a  thick  coat  of  2  parts  freshly  slacked  lime,  and  1  part  sal 
soda,  mixed  thick;  wash  off  after  24  hours.    Clean  with  vinegar. 

To  Remove  Paint  on  Glass. — (1)  Dissolve  common  washing  soda  in  hot 
water;  apply  it  to  the  paint  hot,  and  let  it  soak  a  short  time  (if  thick,  30  minutes) 
and  wash  off.  Repeat  if  needed.  Good.  (2)  Scrape  off  what  you  can  with  a 
knife;  then  rub  with  a  cloth  wet  with  alcohol.  (3)  Use  turpentine  and  ammonia 
mixed,  or  either  alone  if  you  have  not  the  other.  (4)  Take  3  parts  potash,  and 
1  part  unslacked  lime;  lay  on  with  a  stick  and  leave  some  time;  it  will  remove 
either  tar  or  paint. 

Cleaning  Paint. — Paint  should  be  more  often  brushed  than  scrubbed;  too 
frequent  scrubbing  causes  it  to  decay.  Use  little  soap  and  wash  it  off  with 
plenty  of  clean  water  to  prevent  discoloration.  Soda,  pearlash  and  ammonia  all 
injure  paint  if  allowed  to  remain  on;  it  is  better  not  to  use  them  at  all,  but  if 
used  they  should  be  immediately  rinsed  off  with  clean  water,  and  the  paint 
rubbed  dry  with  flannel.  For  washing  paint  there  is  nothing  better  to  use  than 
old  worn  flannel.  Do  not  have  the  water  too  hot.  The  woodwork  inside  a 
house  should  all  be  washed  over  twice  a  year.  We  present  the  following  methods 
for  cleaning  unvarnished  paint:  (1)  Wet  the  paint  with  warm  water;  then  rub 
with  a  damp  flannel  dipped  in  whiting;  rinse  off  with  clean  water  and  rub  dry 
with  chamois.  This  is  much  better  than  soap,  is  easily  used,  saves  the  paint, 
and  makes  it  look  like  new.  (2)  For  paint  much  soiled  use  whiting  and  ox-gall 
mixed  together  to  a  batter.  Rub  on  with  a  flannel;  rinse  off  with  cold  water,  rub 
dry  with  a  soft  cloth.  The  unpleasant  smell  of  the  gall  will  soon  go  off.  (3) 
Dissolve  %  oz.  glue,  and  a  bit  of  soft  soap  the  size  of  a  walnut,  in  about  3  pints 
warm  water;  scrub  this  on  with  a  well  worn  whitewash  brush,  but  not  enough  to 
start  the  paint;  rinse  with  plenty  of  clean  cold  water,  using  a  wash  leather;  let  it 
dry  itself.  Work  done  in  this  manner  will  often  look  like  new.  (4)  Mix  1  table- 
spoon of  skimmed  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  turpentine,  2  quarts  hot  water,  and  soap 
enough  to  make  a  suds;  this  cleans  well  and  adds  luster. 

To  Clean  Oiled  and,  Varnished  Woods. — Wring  a  flannel  cloth  out  of  luke- 
warm soft  water,  and  wipe  them  off. 

Grained  Wood  is  best  washed  with  cold  tea,  and  for  dark  colored  paints  this 
is  one  of  the  most  convenient  and  effectual  things  there  is;  then  rub  it  with  flan- 
nel cloth. 

For  flower-pot  stains  on  a  window-sill,  see  "Windows." 

To  Destroy  the  Smell  of  Fresh  Paint. — (1)  Shut  up  the  room  closely,  and 
place  in  the  middle  of  it  a  pan  of  lighted  charcoal  on  which  some  juniper  berries 
have  been  thrown.  (2)  Leave  in  the  room  a  pail  of  water  containing  some  new 
hay;  or  place  hay  on  the  floor  and  sprinkle  it  with  water  in  which  chloride  of 
lime  has  been  mixed. 

Leave  several  pans  or  pails  of  water  during  the  night  in  a  newly  painted 
room,  and  in  the  sleeping  rooms  adjoining,  and  the  deleterious  effects  of  fresh 
paint  will  be  nearly  overcome;  the  material  it  absorbs  will  be  seen  on  the  top  of 
the  water  in  the  morning.    Do  not  sleep  in  a  freshly  painted  room. 

To  Prevent  Paint  from  Smelling. — Dissolve  some  frankincense  in  spirits  of 
turpentine  by  simmering  over  a  clear  fire;  then  strain  and  bottle  the  mixture. 
Add  this  to  any  paint,  and,  if  too  thick,  thin  with  turpentine. 

Paint  Which  Resists  Moisture. — Take  6  gallons  fish  oil,  1  lb.  of  sulphur,  %  lb. 
resin;  melt  and  mix  all  together  thoroughly;  color  as  desired  with  ochre  or  other 
colors,  and  use  a  little  linseed  oil;  apply  while  hot  with  a  brush;  have  first  coat 
very  thin — then  lay  on  several  more.    May  be  applied  to  either  wood  or  stone. 

A  good  and  cheap  paint  for  iron  fencing,  rough  woodwork,  etc.,  is  made  by 
mixing  yellow  ochre  into  tar;  it  will  be  green  in  color. 

Light  colors,  as  is  well  known,  reflect  the  heat,  while  dark  colors  absorb  it; 
for  this  reason  light  colored  paints  are  best  to  use  on  tools,  etc.,  much  exposed 
to  the  sun. 

Luminous  Paints. — Several  bodies  possess  the  property  of  absorbing  a  cer- 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  479 

tain  amount  of  light  and  then  emitting  it  slowly.  Calcium  sulphide  is  the  most 
important  of  these,  and  it  has  been  mixed  with  paint  where  the  light  is  desired. 
It  is  very  feeble,  however.  If  something  of  the  kind  is  desired,  heat  strontium 
theo-sulphate  for  15  minutes  over  a  good  Bunsen  gas  lamp,  and  then  for  5  min- 
utes over  a  blast  lamp.  For  use,  mix  it  with  pure  melted  paraffine,  and  expose  it 
to  the  sunlight  for  a  time.  In  the  dark  it  will  emit  a  greenish  phosphorescence. 
It  can  be  applied  to  clock  dials,  etc. 

Faint  Brushes. — To  soften  brushes  that  have  become  hard,  soak  them  for  24 
hours  in  raw  linseed  oil,  and  rinse  them  out  in  hot  turpentine,  repeating  the  pro- 
cess until  clean.  To  wash  the  brushes,  use  hot  soda  and  water  and  soft 
soap.  If  paint  brushes  have  a  hole  bored  in  the  handle  and  when  not  in  use,  are 
hung  above  an  open  necked  bottle  or  can,  containing  oil,  so  that  the  bristles  are 
immersed  up  to  the  binding  cords,  they  will  keep  clean  and  be  ready  at  any  time 
for  use. 

To  keep  a  new  brush  from  shedding  its  bristles  or  shrinking,  turn  it  bottom 
up;  then  spread  open  the  bristles  and  pour  in  a  little  good  varnish;  keep  it  bot- 
tom up  till  dry,  and  the  varnish  will  "■  set"  around  the  bristles  and  bind  them 
fast. 

Varnish. — Lay  on  varnish  carefully,  with  a  good  even  stroke,  applying  a 
smooth  and  regular  coat;  let  it  stand  in  a  moderately  warm  place  to  dry,  that 
the  varnish  may  not  chill. 

To  Remove  Varnish. — (1)  Scrape  with  sandpaper,  and  then  use  spirits  of  am- 
monia; it  is  a  rather  slow  process.  (2)  Cut  the  varnish  with  spirits  of  wine  and 
turpentine  mixed. 

To  Remove  Spots  on  Varnish. — See  our  directions  for  taking  spots  off  of 
varnished  furniture  in  the  article  on  "Furniture." 

To  clean  varnished  surfaces,  as  well  as  dark  colored  paints  or  graining,  wash 
it  off  with  cold  tea;  then  polish  with  a  chamois  skin.  Never  use  hot  water  on 
varnish.  For  a  fuller  explanation  of  the  treatment  of  varnished  surfaces  see  our 
article  on  "Furniture." 

When  varnish  is  "sticky"  it  may  be  remedied  by  first  applying  a  coat  of  ben- 
zine; leave  it  48  to  72  hours;  then  lay  on  a  coat  of  good  varnish.  Do  not  use  the 
article  until  it  is  thoroughly  dry. 

Do  not  use  ammonia  on  varnish,  as  that  turns  it  white. 
For  a  white  varnish,  take  6  oz.  white  wax,  1  pint  oil  of  turpentine;  dissolve 
by  a  gentle  heat. 

For  a  cheap  oak  varnish,  take  3%  lbs.  clear,  pale  resin,  1  gallon  oil  of  turpen- 
tine, dissolve  it.     This  may  be  colored  darker  by  adding  a  little  fine  lampblack. 
For  a  sealing   wax  varnish  dissolve  sealing  wax  in  spirits  of  wine,  and  apply 
the  solution  (well   shaken  up)  with  a  soft  brush;  the  spirits  of  wine  will  evapo- 
rate, leaving  an  even  coating  of  sealing  wax. 

For  a  shellac  varnish,  dissolve  1  part  shellac  in  7  or  8  parts  of  alcohol.  If  too 
thick  add  alcohol;  if  too  thin  add  shellac.  Keep  in  a  bottle.  It  dries  quickly 
and  is  good  to  varnish  almost  anything  with. 

Colorless  Varnish.— Take 2%  oz.  bleached  shellac  and  let  it  dissolve  in  1  pint 
of  rectified  alcohol;  then  heat  5  oz.  animal  bone  black,  mix  in  thoroughly,  and 
boil  all  5  minutes;  test  it  by  filtering  a  little  through  filtering  paper;  if  not  color- 
less put  in  more  bone  black  and  again  boil;  then  filter  it  all  through  silk  and 
filtering  paper.  It  can  be  used  as  soon  as  it  cools,  for  whitewood,  labels,  paints 
or  any  spotless  article. 

The  Varnish  Brush. — As  the  beauty  of  varnishing  depends  largely  on  the 
brush,  care  should  be  taken  to  select  one  that  is  suitable.  The  best  way  to  keep 
a  varnish  brush  when  not  in  use  is  to  bore  a  hole  in  the  handle  as  advised  for 
paint  brushes,  and  suspend  it  above  a  narrow  tin  pot  containing  the  kind  of  varnish 
last  used,  immersing  it  up  to  the  binding  cords  but  no  higher.  Brushes  kept  in 
turpentine  are  apt  to  get  hard  and  harsh. 

Calcimine.  — Before  applying  a  new  coat  of  calcimine  wash  off  the  old  one. 
It  can  be  done  with  a  sponge  and  a  pail  of  water,  or  moisten  and  scrape  it  off. 
To  prepare  calcimine,  soak  %  lb-  °f  white  glue  over  night  in  cold  water;  in  the 
morning  heat  it  until  dissolved.  Mix  10  lbs.  whiting  in  hot  water  and  then  mix 
and  stir  the  2  together;  dilute  to  about  the  thickness  of  cream,  with  warm  water. 
The  glue  can  be  left  out  if  skimmed  milk  is  used  in  place  of  the  water.  Apply  it  with 


480  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

a  calcimine  brush,  which  produces  a  better  result  than  the  coarser  brush  used 
for  whitewash.  If  there  are  cracks  in  the  ceiling,  fill  them  before  applying  the 
calcimine  with  the  wall  cement  given  among  our  cements.  The  smoke  from  a 
kerosene  lamp  may  be  washed  from  a  ceiling  as  explained  under  "Lamps." 

Calcimine  can  easily  be  tinted  any  desired  shade.  The  following  are  a  few  of 
them:  For  a  buff  tint,  use  2  pints  Indian  yellow,  and  1  part  burnt  sienna.  For 
blue,  use  a  little  Prussian  blue;  a  dark  blue  shade  is  never  advisable.  For  brown, 
use  burnt  umber.  For  grey,  use  raw  umber,  with  a  little  lampblack.  For 
lavender,  prepare  a  light  blue,  and  then  shade  it  a  trifle  with  vermilion.  For 
lilac,  use  2  parts  Prussian  blue  and  1  part  vermilion;  mix  thoroughly,  and  don't 
get  the  color  too  high.  For  straiv,  use  chrome  yellow  and  a  very  little  Spanish 
brown.  Remember,  that  delicate  tints  are  always  in  better  taste  and  more 
agreeable  than  vivid  colors;  also,  that  when  laid  on  they  always  look  brighter 
than  when  in  the  calcimine  pail.  Ceilings  should  be  a  little  lighter  than  the 
walls.  Accomplish  this  by  calcimining  the  ceiling  first;  then  add  a  little  more 
color  and  go  over  the  walls. 

Whitewash. — Slack  about  %  bushel  of  unslacked  lime  with  boiling  water,  keep- 
ing it  covered  during  the  process.  Strain  it,  and  add  1  peck  of  salt  dissolved  in 
warm  water;  3  lbs.  ground  rice  put  in  boiling  water  and  boiled  to  a  thin  paste; 
%  lb.  powdered  Spanish  whiting,  and  1  lb.  clear  glue  dissolved  in  warm  water;  mix 
these  well  together  and  let  the  mixture  stand  for  several  days.  Keep  the  wash 
thus  prepared  in  a  kettle  or  portable  furnace,  and  when  used  put  it  on  as  hot  as 
possible.  This  will  answer  for  either  wood,  brick  or  stone,  and  retains  its  luster 
for  a  long  time.  It  is  the  formula  recommended  by  the  U.  S.  Treasury  Depart- 
ment to  all  lighthouse  keepers.  It  can  be  colored,  if  desired,  to  any  shade.  A 
little  lampblack  added  makes  a  slate  color;  lampblack  and  Spanish  brown,  a 
red  stone  color;  yellow  ochre  or  chrome  yellow  a  pretty  cream  shade,  etc. 

For  common  work  a  mixture  may  be  used  of  %  bushel  of  lime  slacked  with 
boiling  water,  and  add  1  lb.  of  common  salt,  %  lb.  of  sulphate  of  zinc,  and  1  gal- 
lon of  sweet  milk.  This  is  cheap,  easily  made  and  excellent,  and  if  applied  once 
a  year,  or  even  of tener,  to  unpainted  fences  and  outbuildings,  whether  of  wood  or 
stone,  it  will  preserve  them,  and  conduce  to  the  healthfulness  of  the  premises. 
Many  people  do  not  realize  the  value  of  a  good  coat  of  whitewash.  This  may  be 
colored  to  any  desired  shade  by  using  yellow  ochre,  lampblack,  burnt  umber, 
Prussian  blue,  etc. 

No  brick  wall  which  is  ever  intended  to  be  painted  should  be  whitewashed. 
All  washes  absorb  water,  and  in  damp  weather  lose  their  color.  For  1  barrel  of 
color  wash,  take  %  bushel  white  lime,  3  pecks  hydraulic  cement,  10  lbs.  umber, 
10  lbs.  ochre,  1  lb.  Venetian  red,  J^  lb.  lampblack.  Slack  the  lime,  cut  the  lamp- 
black with  vinegar,  mix  well  together,  add  the  cement,  and  fill  the  barrel  with 
water.  Let  it  stand  for  12  hours  before  using,  and  stir  frequently  while  putting 
it  on.  This  is  light  stone  color,  but  may  be  changed  by  using  more  or  less  of  the 
colors  named  above,  or  any  others.  Only  1  coat  of  this  is  needed.  A  rough  board 
barn  washed  with  it,  will  look  well  for  five  years.  The  cement  hardens, 'but  on  a 
rough  surface  will  not  scale. — Scientific  American. 


PICTURES  AND  FRAMES. 

Pictures. — In  hanging  pictures  be  sure  the  cords  are  strong  enough.  There 
is  nothing  stronger  than  copper  wire;  or  use  the  cords  containing  wire.  In  buy- 
ing cord  get  that  as  near  the  color  of  the  wall  as  possible.  The  effect  is  better 
to  put  engravings  between  chromos  and  paintings  than  to  hang  the  latter  side  by 
side;  and  it  is  better  not  to  hang  water  colors  near  colored  pictures  like  paint- 
ings and  chromos.  Pictures  should  not  be  hung  so  that  the  shadows  will  come 
near  the  window;  it  may  spoil  the  effect  of  a  good  picture,  because  the  side  that 
needs  the  light  will  not  get  it.  When  hung  directly  opposite  a  window  the  re- 
flection of  the  light  from  both  glass  and  frame  may  nearly  hide  the  picture.  Do 
not  hang  pictures  or  chromos  so  that  they  are  exposed  to  the  direct  rays  of  the 
sun,  nor,  on  the  other  hand  in  a  dark  room,  as  darkness  fades  some  colors 
rapidly.    Have  a  good  light,  therefore,  but  not  strong  sunlight. 

Attend  to  the  condition  of  the  wall  against  which  a  picture  is  hung..   A 


ALE  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  481 

slight  amount  of  dampness  will  produce  brown  or  mildewed  spots  on  an  engrav- 
ing or  any  kind  of  paper  mount,  while  it  produces  a  slight  film  of  mildew  on  an 
oil  painting.  On  the  other  hand  an  oil  painting  should  never  be  hung  on  a  wall 
through  which  a  hot  flue  or  chimney  passes,  which  heats  the  wall  considerably, 
as  after  a  time  curious  spots,  lines  and  patches  make  their  appearance,  and  if  the 
picture  has  ever  been  restored  the  places  become  painfully  apparent.  When  pic- 
tures hang  flat,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  have  a  piece  of  cork  fastened  behind,  each 
corner,  which  will  keep  the  frame  a  small  space  from  the  wall,  and  promote  free 
ventilation  behind  them.  Only  heavy  gilt  frames  should  be  used  for  oil 
paintings. 

An  oil  painting  should  have  its  face  dusted  with  an  old  soft  silk  handkerchief; 
this  is  much  better  than  a  feather  duster.  Occasionally  (perhaps  every  2  or  3 
months  or  so)  it  should  be  dry  cleaned,  using  an  old  silk  handkerchief,  although 
some  use  a  pad  of  soft  cotton-wool.  Brush  it  lightly  and  quickly,  and  an  occa- 
sional breath  on  the  surface  helps  the  process.  A  slow  touch  with  a  silk  hand- 
kerchief is  apt  to  make  the  surface  look  greasy.  Do  not  press  heavily,  nor  strain 
the  canvas  in  the  least.  When  spots  or  discolorations  are  observed,  or  a  picture 
has  become  very  dirty,  it  must  be  taken  down  and  cleaned  carefully.  Choice 
pictures  which  show  signs  of  mildew,  cracking,  etc.,  should  be  taken  to  a  profes- 
sional restorer,  rather  than  to  attempt  handling  them  at  home. 

To  Clean  Oil  Paintings. — There  are  various  methods.  (1)  First  wipe  off  the 
dust  with  soft  silk;  then  dip  the  finger  in  a  little  linseed  oil  contained  in  a  saucer, 
and  gently  rub  the  painting.  This  method  requires  time  and  patience,  but  it  is  safe, 
and  it  produces  gratifying  results.  (2)  In  restoring  pictures  the  great  thing  is  to 
do  as  little  as  possible.  They  can  be  washed  with  warm  water  and  sweet  milk,  and 
then  dried  carefully.  Do  not  rub  them  hard.  (3)  First  examine  the  picture  to  see 
that  there  are  no  cracks,  or  bits  of  paint  likely  to  peel  off;  then  take  an  old  soft  cloth 
and  some  white  of  egg,  and  wash  the  surface,  a  square  inch  at  a  time,  with  a  spiral 
motion  of  the  hand,  not  pressing  too  heavily.  If  very  dirty  mix  some  bread,  molas- 
ses and  new  milk  in  a  basin,  adding  a  trifle  of  turpentine;  wash  it  with  this,  using  soft 
flannel  and  a  sponge;  afterwards  use  the  white  of  an  egg.  (4)  If  care  is  taken 
not  to  let  water  through  cracks,  nor  wet  the  backs,  castile  soap  can  be  used  on 
oil  paintings,  although  as  a  rule  it  is  not  advisable.  (5)  Raw  potato  has  an  al- 
most magical  effect  on  oil  paintings,  and  is  sometimes  used  to  clean  them.  First 
wipe  off  the  dust  with  a  soft  silk  cloth;  then  rub  it  with  the  raw  potato;  lightly 
and  evenly,  and  wipe  off  the  lather  with  a  soft  rag.  Manipulate  it  carefully. 
The  dirty  surface  of  the  potato  must  be  constantly  trimmed  off,  to  keep  a  clean 
working  surface.    Afterwards  rub  the  picture  over  with  clean  nut  or  linseed  oil. 

Varnish  for  Pictures. — Put  into  a  bottle  2  parts  alcohol  and  1  part  best 
coach  varnish;  shake  well;  they  will  separate  unless  they  are  shaken  every  time 
they  are  used.  To  use,  pour  a  little  in  a  cup  and  spread  it  on  quickly  with  a 
camel's  hair  brush,  as  the  alcohol  speedily  evaporates.  If  necessary,  after  the 
first  coat  has  dried  apply  a  second,  and  draw  the  brush  the  opposite  way  in  ap- 
plying it.  Keep  it  clear  of  dust  while  drying;  this  gives  a  beautiful  polish,  not 
affected  by  cold  water  used  to  clean  it,  nor  by  steam. 

To  Clean  CJiromos. — (1)  Use  a  soft  cloth,  moistened  in  cold  tea;  then  polish 
them  with  a  little  oil.  (2)  Dust  them  carefully,  and  then  wipe  them  with  a  soft 
linen  rag  or  chamois  skin,  moistened  slightly.  Finish  by  rubbing  with  a  touch 
of  oil  on  a  chamois.  Apply  a  thin  coat  of  mastic  varnish  if  the  old  coat  is  dull 
or  defaced. 

Varnish  for  Chromos. — For  chromos  not  previously  varnished  prepare  a  size 
by  dissolving  isinglass  in  lukewarm  water,  making  it  the  consistency  of  starch. 
Apply,  lightly,  a  smooth  coat  of  this  with  a  flat  varnish  brush;  when  quite  dry, 
lay  on,  in  a  warm  room,  one  or  more  coats  of  Demar  varnish;  shield  carefully 
from  the  dust  until  dry.  Thus  varnished  they  can  be  safely  wiped  off  at  any 
time,  and  will  be  much  more  durable. 

Frames. — To  Clean  Gilt  Frames. — (1)  Blow  off  the  dust.  Then  beat  up  the 
white  of  eggs  and  add  common  washing  soda,  in  the  proportion  of  3  oz.  egg  to  1 
oz.  soda;  brush  this  with  a  soft  brush,  over  the  frame.  This  will  also  clean  and 
brighten  all  gilded  articles.  (2)  Mix  1  gill  of  water,  1  oz.  of  common  salt,  1  oz. 
alum,  and  2  oz.;  purified  nitre.  Sponging  with  this  mixture  will  brighten  them 
if  ever  so  dirty. 


482  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Black  Walnut  or  Other  Dark  Colored  Frames. — If  varnished,  these  may  be 
cleaned  with  cold  tea,  and  then  rubbed  up  with  a  good  furniture  polish.  If 
oiled,  and  not  varnished,  clean  them  first  with  cold  tea,  then  rub  with  a  little 
linseed  or  kerosene  oil. 

White  Frames. — If  varnished  these  may  be  cleaned  like  other  varnished 
frames;  if  not  varnished,  clean  carefully  with  whiting  and  water,  and  then  rub 
with  a  chamois  skin. 

New  Gilt  Frames  should  be  given  a  coat  of  white  varnish.  It  improves  their 
appearance,  makes  them  last  much  longer,  and  fiy  specks  can  then  be  washed  off 
without  injury.    This  also  improves  old  frames. 

To  Keep  Flies  off  of  Frames. — Sponge  them  over  with  onion  water.  Boil  4  or 
5  onions  in  a  pint  of  water;  when  cold,  apply  it;  it  will  not  injure  the  frames. 
Applying  laurel  oil  will  also  keep  off  flies. 

To  Restore  Old  Gildings. — (1)  Form  cotton  wool  into  a  tuft  as  large  as  a  nut, 
dip  it  in  strong  liquid  ammonia,  and  carefully  apply.  If  the  gold  is  not  worn  off 
it  restores  it  fairly  well.  (2)  To  patch  or  retouch  a  gilt  frame  apply  to  the 
abraided  spot  a  size,  made  by  dissolving  isinglass  in  alcohol;  when  partially  dry, 
lay  on  gold  leaf;  leave  it  till  fullv  dry;  then  burnish  with  a  hard  burnisher.  (3) 
Take  1  quart  of  water,  add  enough  flowers  of  sulphur  to  give  it  a  golden  tinge, 
boil  5  or  6  onions  in  it  and  strain.  Apply  to  the  part  that  needs  restoring  with  a 
soft  brush,  when  cold.  The  onions  will  keep  off  flies,  and  the  solution  will 
brighten  the  frame. 

To  Begild  Picture  Frames. — Take  some  parchment  gold-size,  and  water 
gold-size;  warm  them  and  mix  together  till  fluid;  paint  this  over  the  picture 
frame  with  a  soft  brush;  when  dry,  apply  a  second  coat;  when  that  is  dry  rub 
gently  with  fine  sandpaper.  Have  ready  some  book  gold-leaf,  warm  it  before 
the  fire,  rub  some  white  wax  upon  a  piece  of  writing  paper;  pick  up  the  gold 
leaf  with  the  waxed  paper  and  lay  it  gently  on  the  frame,  and  continue  fix- 
ing leaves  till  the  frame  is  covered,  but  always  overlap  one  leaf  over  another; 
then  press  the  gold-leaf  to  the  frame  very  gently.  Let  it  dry;  then  pass  a  clean 
brush  dipped  in  water  over  the  surface  to  carry  away  any  superfluous  gold-leaf. 
Cover  the  gilding  with  a  coating  of  warm  parchment  size,  and  it  will  be  finished. 

The  Glass  Over  Pictures. — This  should  be  washed  with  ammonia  and  water, 
and  wiped  dry  with  chamois  skin  or  tissue  paper. 

When  it  is  desired  to  clean  the  glass  without  taking  it  out  of  the  frame,  and 
the  frame  is  made  of  silk  or  other  material  easily  soiled,  bend  pieces  of  tin  at  an 
angle,  thus  |_  an<^  set  these  over  the  frame  with  one  edge  resting  on  the  glass 
and  the  long  arm  protecting  the  frame;  then  wash  carefully  with  soft  water  and 
ammonia,  and  rub  dry  with  tissue  paper  or  chamois  skin. 

The  Picture  Cord. — To  hang  pictures  copper  wire  is  the  best  thing  to  use, 
adapting  the  size  to  the  weight  of  the  picture;  if  cord  is  used  buy  that  made  for 
the  purpose  with  wire  in  it. 

Engravings,  Mezzotints,  Etc. — To  Clean. — Engravings  or  prints  which  have 
been  laid  in  any  of  the  following  baths,  may  be  laid  on  a  clean  board  or  strips  of 
clean  smooth  cloth  to  dry.  Sometimes  prints  are  dried  by  laying  them  between 
sheets  of  clean  blotting  paper,  and  keeping  them  under  pressure  till  dry.  If  nec- 
essary they  may  be  ironed  with  an  ordinary  flat-iron  to  restore  the  gloss,  placing 
clean  paper  between  the  iron  and  the  print.  Sometimes,  before  being  dried,  they 
are  placed  in  a  very  weak  solution  of  isinglass  or  glue,  to  act  as  a  size;  a  little 
coffee  or  tobacco  added  to  the  solution  will  give  a  yellow  tinge  when  that  is  de- 
sired. Great  care  should  be  exercised  in  handling  prints  while  wet,  so  as  not  to 
tear  them.    They  are  easily  handled  with  a  little  care. 

For  cleaning  prints  there  are  various  methods,  the  following  being  among  the 
best:  (1)  If  engravings  are  very  dirty,  take  2  parts  salt  and  1  of  soda,  and  pound 
them  together  very  fine.  Lay  the  engraving  on  a  board,  and  fasten  it  with  draw- 
ing pins;  then  spread  this  mixture,  dry,  equally  over  the  surface  to  be  cleaned. 
Moisten  the  whole  with  warm  water  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  and,  after  it  has  re- 
mained a  minute,  or  even  less,  tilt  the  board  up  on  its  end,  and  pour  over  it  a 
kettleful  of  boiling  water.  Avoid  rubbing  and  be  careful  to  remove  all  the  mix- 
ture. If  the  engraving  is  not  very  dirty  the  less  soda  used  the  better,  as  it  has  a 
tendency  to  give  a  yellow  hue.  Then  treat  as  above  directed.  (2)  Prepare  a 
solution  in  the  proportion  of  %  lb-  lime  chloride  to  1  pint  water;  let  it  stand, 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  m 

with  frequent  stirring,  for  24  hours;  then  strain  through  muslin,  and  finally  add 
1  quart  water.  Engravings,  prints,  and  every  description  of  printed  matter,  may 
be  immersed  in  this  solution;  mildew  and  other  stains  will  quickly  disappear. 
The  sheets  must  then  be  passed,  separately,  through  clear  water,  as  the  lime 
chloride  if  left  in  the  paper  will  cause  it  to  rot.    Dry  as  above  directed. 

To  remove  surface  dirt  from  engravings  and  mezzotints,  the  most  effectual 
plan  is  to  use  bookbinders'  paste;  apply  it  with  a  paste  brush  to  both  the  front 
and  back  of  the  print;  the  paste  will  take  up  the  whole  of  the  dirt,  which  will 
come  away  with  the  paste;  remove  that  by  immersing  the  print  in  a  bath  of  plain 
water;  it  will  come  out  as  fresh  as  new.  This  plan  is  simple  but  efficacious,  and 
many  a  dollar  has  been  earned  by  it.    Dry  as  above  directed. 

Superficial  markings,  from  lead  pencils,  etc.,  may  be  removed  by  rubbing  the 
surface  with  fresh  cut  bread,  in  circular  sweeps,  lightly  but  firmly  performed. 

Small  grease  spots  may  be  removed  by  placing  powdered  French  chalk  over 
them,  a  piece  of  clean  blotting  paper  over  the  chalk,  and  a  hot  iron  over  that. 
Do  not  have  the  iron  too  hot,  or  it  may  turn  the  grease  dark. 

To  remove  ink  stains,  berry  stains,  etc.,  see  the  article  on  "Books  and  Paper." 


BOOKS  AND    PAPER. 

Books. — It  is  one  thing  to  buy  books;  it  is  quite  another  to  intelligently  care 
for  them.  The  following  rules  are  well  worth  preserving  by  every  one  who 
handles  books: 


Never  hold  a  book  near  a  fire. 

Never  lean  or  rest  upon  an  open  book. 

Never  turn  down  the  corners  of  leaves. 

Never  touch  a  book  with  damp  or  soiled 
hands. 

Always  keep  your  place  with  a  thin  book 
mark. 

Always  place  a  large  book  on  the  table 
before  opening  it. , 

Always  turn  leaves  from  the  top  with  the 
fore  or  middle  finger. 

Never  touch  a  book  with  a  damp  cloth  or 
sponge. 

Never  rub  dust  from  books,  but  brush  it 
off -with  a  soft  dry  cloth  or  duster. 

Never  close  a  book  -with  a  pencil,  pad  of 
paper,  or  anything  else  between  the  leaves. 


Always  open  a  large  book  from  the  mid- 
dle, and  never  from  the  ends  or  cover. 

Always  keep  a  borrowed  book  neatly 
covered  with  paper  while  in  your  posses- 
sion. 

Never  try  to  dry  by  a  fire  a  book  accident- 
ally wet,  but  wipe  off  the  moisture  with  a 
soft  dry  cloth  and  let  it  dry  slowly. 

Never  cut  the  leaves  of  a  book  or  magazine 
with  a  sharp  knife,  as  the  edge  will  run  into 
the  print. 

Never  lend  a  borrowed  book,  but  return 
it  directly  you  get  through  with  it  so  that 
the  owner  may  not  be  deprived  of  its  use. 

Always  have  a  good  index  or  catalogue  of 
the  contents  of  your  library. 


Books  which  are  placed  in  a  library  should  be  thoroughly  dusted  2  or  3  times 
a  year,  not  only  to  keep  them  clean  and  fresh,  but  also  to  prevent  any  develop- 
ment of  insects  and  to  disclose  signs  of  dampness.  The  interior  of  a  book  also 
requires  care,  though  often  neglected.  On  taking  a  book  from  the  shelf,  before 
opening  it  see  if  there  is  dust  on  the  top  edge.  If  it  has  trimmed  edges  blow  off 
the  dust,  and  then  dust  with  a  soft  duster;  if  the  edges  are  uncut,  brush  with  a 
rather  hard  brush.  In  this  way  the  dust  will  be  kept  from  sifting  into  the  book. 
If  books  are  packed  too  tightly  on  the  shelves  their  backs  will  be  broken  when 
they  are  taken  down.  Nothing  spoils  books  more  quickly  than  laying  them  open, 
face  down,  to  preserve  the  place. 

Bookshelves  should  be  covered  with  a  dust  sheet  before  a  room  is  swept. 
Books  which  are  not  kept  under  glass  may  be  guarded  to  some  extent  from  dust 
by  having  strips  of  leather  or  cloth  2  or  3  inches  deep,  nailed  along  the  edges  of 
the  shelves;  also  lay  sheets  of  brown  paper,  a  little  wider  than  the  books,  along 
their  tops.  At  the  annual  housecleaning,  books  should  be  taken  down  and 
beaten,  first  singly  and  then  in  pairs,  and  carefully  dusted;  then  the  shelves 
should  be  washed,  scrubbed  and  thoroughly  dried,  before  the  books  are  put  back. 

The  3  great  enemies  of  books  are  insects,  damp,  and  rats  and  mice.  Everyone 
knows  how  to  guard  against  rats  and  mice.  To  preserve  books,  warm,  dry  air  is 
required;  dampness  and  excessive  heat  must  be  avoided.  The  more  they  are 
read  the  more  easily  they  are  preserved.  It  is  said  that  the  reason  Russia  leather 
never  molds  and  is  not  affected  by  damp  is  because  it  is  perfumed  with  tar  of 
birch  tree.  Book  cases  or  shelves  made  of  cedar,  cypress,  sandalwood,  or  any 
strongly  aromatic  wood,  are  a  protection  to  books  against  insects.      The  Romans 


484  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

preserved  valuable  manuscripts  with  oil  of  cedar.  Bindings  brushed  over  with 
spirits  of  wine  are  preserved  from  mildew,  and  libraries  may  be  preserved  from 
the  effects  of  mold  and  damp  by  using  a  few  drops  of  any  perfumed  oil.  Alum 
used  in  the  bookbinder's  paste,  has  a  preservative  effect,  while  oil  of  turpentine 
is  much  better.  Aniseseed,  bergamot,  or  anything  strongly  odoriferous,  mixed  in 
paste,  preserves  it  indefinitely  from  the  attacks  of  insects. 

Grease  Spots. — These  may  be  removed  from  the  covers  of  bound  books  by  lay- 
ing fine  pipeclay,  magnesia  or  French  chalk  on  both  sides,  and  applying  a  hot 
iron;  but  take  care  that  it  is  not  too  hot.  Colored  calf-skin  may  be  treated  the 
same  way.  Vellum  covers  which  need  cleaning  may  be  made  almost  equal  to  new 
by  washing  with  a  weak  solution  of  potash  binoxalate,  or,  if  not  much  soiled,  with 
warm  water  and  soap. 

Paper. — Berry  Stains. — These  may  be  removed  from  engravings,  books  or 
paper  by  subjecting  them  to  the  fumes  of  sulphur,  or  of  sulphur  matches. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots  from  Paper. — (1)  Lay  some  fuller's  earth,  powdered 
chalk,  blotting  paper  or  magnesia  on  the  paper,  both  above  and  below  the  spot; 
set  on  a'hot  flat-iron  to  melt  the  grease  and  it  will  be  at  once  absorbed.  Do  not 
have  the  iron  too  hot,  however,  or  the  paper  will  be  discolored.  Or  (2)  place  a 
blotting  paper  underneath,  and  moisten  the  spots  with  a  camel's  hair  pencil  dip- 
ped in  rectified  spirits  of  turpentine;  when  dry,  moisten  with  a  little  spirits  of 
wine,  which  will  remove  any  stain  left  by  the  turpentine. 

To  Remove  Oil  Stains  from  Drawing  Paper. — Apply  a  solution  of  pearlash  in 
the  proportion  of  1  oz.  pearlash  to  1  pint  water. 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains  from  Paper  (including  that  of  books  or  engravings). 
— Use  a  solution  of  oxalic  acid,  citric  acid,  or  tartaric  acid;  apply  the  solution, 
then  dry  with  blotting  paper.  These  acids  remove  writing  ink,  but  do  not  affect 
printing  ink.  Javelle  water  will  also  take  out  ink  stains.  These  preparations 
will  also  remove  the  blue  lines  from  writing  paper.  These  can  be  ruled  in  again, 
if  desired,  by  using  ordinary  bluing,  mixed  with  water,  and  a  little  ox-gall  added 
to  make  it  flow. 

Finger  or  Thumb  Marks  on  paper  are  often  difficult  to  erase,  the  dirt  being 
of  a  greasy  nature  and  forced  into  the  fibers  of  the  paper.  Remove  slight  stains 
with  rubber  or  bread  crumbs;  for  the  more  difficult  ones  apply  a  jelly  made  of 
white  or  curd  soap,  leave  it  on  some  time  and  then  immerse  the  paper  in  cold 
water  and  then  gently  brush  it  off  with  a  soft  brush;  then  rinse  it  in  a  weak  acid 
water,  and  then  again  with  cold  water  and  size  it  again  when  dry. 

To  Remove  India  Ink  from  Paper. — To  remove  a  blot  of  this  apply  water 
with  a  camel's  hair  brush;  leave  on  a  few  seconds,  then  make  as  dry  as  possible 
with  blotting  paper,  and  then  rub  carefully  with  India  rubber.  Repeat,  if  nec- 
essary, till  all  is  gone.  For  lines,  circles,  etc.,  dip  the  ink  leg  of  the  instruments 
in  water,  open  the  pen  rather  wider  than  the  line,  and  trace  over  the  ink,  using 
blotting  paper  and  India  rubber  as  for  a  blot;  applicable  to  drawing  paper,  trac- 
ing paper,  and  tracing  linen.  If  the  surface  is  a  little  roughened  thereby,  polish 
it  with  your  finger  nail. 

To  Split  a  Sheet  of  Paper. — Paste  a  piece  of  cloth  to  each  side  of  the  sheet  to 
be  split.  When  perfectly  dry,  violently  and  without  hesitation  pull  the  two 
cloths  apart;  part  of  the  paper  will  adhere  to  one,  and  part  to  the  other.  Wet 
and  soften  the  paste,  and  the  two  pieces  can  be  easily  removed  from  the  cloth.  If 
there  is  only  one  copy  of  a  newspaper  article,  and  it  is  desired  to  paste  it  in  a 
scrap  book,  it  is  convenient  to  know  how  to  split  it,  and  the  process  can  be  util- 
ized in  various  ways.    It  will  work  if  managed  skilfully. 

To  Take  Creases  out  of  Drawing  Paper  or  an  Engraving.—  Lay  it  on  a  sheet 
of  smooth,  unsized  white  paper,  face  downwards;  then  lay  on  top  of  it  another 
slightly  dampened  sheet  of  the  same  paper,  and  pass  a  moderately  warm  flat-iron 
over  it  all. 

To  Prepare  Oiled  Paper. — Brush  the  sheets  over  with  boiled  oil,  in  which  a 
little  shellac  has  been  carefully  dissolved  over  a  slow  fire;  suspend  them  till  dry. 

To  Make  Waterproof  Paper. — Dissolve  8  oz.  alum  and  3%  oz.  castile  soap  in 
2  quarts  water;  in  another  jar  dissolve  2  oz.  gum  arabic  and  4  oz.  glue  in  2 
quarts  water;  mix  the  solutions,  heat  slightly,  dip  in  the  single  sheets,  and  hang 
up  to  dry. 

Waterproof  Pasteboard. — This  may  be  prepared  with  a  mixture  of  4  parts 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  485 

slacked  lime  in  3  of  skimmed  milk,  with  a  little  alum  added.  As  soon  as 
mixed,  brush  the  pasteboard  over  with  2  successive  coatings;  it  becomes  imper- 
vious to  water. 

To  Make  Transparent  Tracing  Paper.— (1)  Saturate  ordinary  writing  paper 
with  kerosene  and  wipe  the  surface  dry.  Or  (2)  dissolve  %  oz.  white  beeswax 
in  %  pint  turpentine;  saturate  the  paper  with  this,  and  let  dry  2  or  3  days.  (3) 
Spirits  of  turpentine  or  benzoline  will  make  paper  transparent  while  wet  with 
it;  when  dry  it  will  be  again  opaque. 

To  Make  Paper  Fireproof. — Prepare  a  strong  solution  of  alum,  steep  the  paper 
in  it,  and  hang  it  up  to  dry.    If  not  effectual  the  first  time,  repeat. 

Parchment  Paper. — Take  sulphuric  acid,  and  mix  in  %  its  weight  of  water. 
A  sheet  of  common  writing  paper  dipped  in  this  solution  becomes  somewhat  like 
parchment,  and  for  writing  on  is  superior  to  animal  parchment.  It  is  fibrous, 
tough,  hard,  and  waterproof. 

Manuscripts,  when  almost  illegible,  may  be  renovated  by  washing  them  very 
lightly  and  carefully  with  a  very  weak  solution  of  f erro-cyanide  of  potash  in 
clean  water.    The  writing  will  again  appear. 

To  Restore  Faded  Writing. — Moisten  the  paper  with  water,  and  then  brush 
it  over  with  a  solution  of  sulph-hydric  ammonia.  (See  also  the  article  on  "Re- 
storing Obliterated  Ink.") 

Scent  for  Note  Paper. — Take  1^  oz.  powdered  starch,  &  drops  attar  of  roses, 
%  oz.  powdered  orris  root;  mix  together,  and  put  it  in  little  silk  bags  to  be  kept 
in  the  writing  desk. 

When  patterns  or  papers  roll,  they  can  be  flattened  and  smoothed  by  hold- 
ing them  before  a  hot  fire  without  waiting  to  heat  an  iron. 

Playing  Cards,  to  Clean. — Mix  a  little  butter  and  flour  into  a  paste,  and  rub 
the  cards  with  it,  using  a  piece  of  clean  soft  flannel;  then  rub  them  with  flour 
alone  on  a  clean  piece  of  flannel. 

Parchment  and  Yellum. — Benzine,  applied  with  a  sponge,  will  remove  almost 
every  stain,  and  does  not  injure  the  texture  in  the  least.  On  no  account  must 
parchment  be  washed  in  very  hot  water,  or  held  before  a  fire,  as  it  will  shrivel  up 
provokingly.  Acetic  acid  is  sometimes  used  to  take  out  stains,  but  it  injures  the 
gloss  and  leaves  the  parchment  hard  when  dry,  so  that  it  is  not  a  very  successful 
plan. 

To  Make  Parchment  Transparent— Soak  a  thin  skin  of  it  in  a  strong  lye  of 
wood  ashes,  often  wringing  it  out  till  it  becomes  transparent;  then  strain  it  on  a 
frame  and  let  it  dry.  When  dry,  a  coating  on  both  sides  with  clear  mastic  var- 
nish, diluted  with  spirits  of  turpentine  will  improve  it. 

Wall  Paper. — Old  paper  should  be  removed  from  the  walls  before  new  is  put 
on.  It  can  be  taken  off  easily  by  wetting  it  with  saleratus  water.  Then  brush 
over  the  walls  with  a  weak  solution  of  carbolic  acid.  The  odor  will  soon  disappear, 
and  it  will  purify  the  walls  and  drive  away  insects.  Should  there  be  too  much 
whitening  on  the  walls,  wet  them  with  clear  water,  and  scrape  with  a  scraper. 
Then  apply  a  thin  coat  of  sizing  made  by  dissolving  common  glue  in  water. 

In  selecting  wall  paper  striking  contrasts  should  be  avoided;  choose  neutral 
tints  and  colors  which  harmonize  with  the  surroundings.  Good  taste  may  be 
displayed  even  if  the  paper  is  cheap.  If  the  ceilings  are  low,  paper  with  figures 
running  perpendicularly  will  make  them  appear  much  higher.  Before  laying  on  the 
paper,  if  dirt  or  grease  spots  appear  on  the  wall  they  should  be  washed  off  with 
weak  lye.  After  papering  a  room  no  fire  should  be  made  in  it  for  several  days, 
or  until  the  paper  is  perfectly  dry.  In  buying  paper  get  an  extra  roll — it  will  be 
useful  later  for  repairs. 

For  suitable  pastes  to  use  see  our  article  elsewhere  on  "Pastes." 
To  Clean  Old  Wall  Paper. — (1)  Blow  off  the  dust  with  a  bellows,  and  then 
take  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  (rye  is  best)  cut  it  into  pieces  and,  beginning  at  the 
top,  go  around  the  room,  using  the  soft  side  of  the  bread  and  rubbing  downwards, 
about  2  feet  at  a  stroke.  Rub  lightly  or  you  will  rub  the  dirt  in.  Keep  going 
round  in  this  way,  and  working  down,  until  the  paper  is  all  gone  over.  This  will 
remove  dust,  smoke,  whitewash,  etc.,  and  make  the  paper  look  almost  like  new. 
(2)  Another  excellent  way  to  clean  wall  paper  is  to  put  about  2  quarts  of  wheat 
bran  in  a  coarse  flannel  bag,  and  rub  the  wall  as  above  directed.  (3)  Rubbing 
old  wall  paper  with  a  flannel  cloth  dipped  in  dry  cornmeal,  or  oatmeal,  will 
much  improve  its  appearance. 


486  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

A  long  handled  brush,  long  enough  to  reach  the  ceilings,  is  as  important  to  a 
good  housekeeper  as  a  broom.  Brush  the  walls  over  in  straight  lines  before 
sweeping;  use  either  the  brush  itself,  or  have  it  covered  with  a  clean  soft  cloth. 
This  will  keep  the  paper  fresh  and  clean  a  long  time.  When  the  paper  is  only 
slightly  soiled  brushing  it  over  with  a  broom  or  brush  covered  with  clean  calico 
cloth  will  make  it  look  fresh  and  bright.  It  is  easier  than  the  use  of  stale  bread 
which  is  best  when  the  paper  is  very  dirty.  Change  the  cloth  as  often  as  it  gets 
dirty. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots. — Lay  blotting  paper  over  them  and  press  with  a 
hot  flat-iron;  this  melts  the  grease,  and  the  blotting  paper  absorbs  it.  Do  not 
have  the  iron  too  hot. 

To  Remove  Oil  Stains  or  Marks  Where  People  Have  Rested  Their  Heads. — 
Mix  pipeclay  or  fuller's  earth  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  lay  it  on  the  spot, 
leave  it  till  the  next  day,  and  remove  it  with  a  penknife  or  brush  it  off.  If  any 
trace  remains  repeat  the  operation. 

To  Make  a  Size  for  Wall  Paper. — Break  up  some  glue  small  and  put  it  into  a 
pail;  pour  water  over  it  and  let  it  soak  for  a  day.  Then  add  more  water  and  boil 
up  till  dissolved;  strain  it  through  a  cloth  and  try  it  on  the  paper.  If  it  glistens 
it  is  too  thick;  if  it  soaks  in  it  is  too  thin.  Have  plenty  of  size  on  the  brush  and 
apply  very  lightly  for  the  first  coat.  Give  2  coats  of  size,  and  when  dry  varnish 
with  pale  varnish. 

To  Detect  Arsenic  in  Wall  Papers. — (1)  Turn  down  an  ordinary  gas  jet  to  a  pin- 
point, until  it  is  wholly  blue;  then  take  a  strip  of  the  suspected  paper  one-sixteenth 
inch  wideband  2  or  3  inches  long;  when  the  edge  of  this  paper  is  brought  in  con- 
tact with  the  outer  edge  of  the  gas  flame  a  gray  coloration  (if  arsenic  is  present) 
will  be  seen  in  the  flame.  The  paper  is  burned  a  little,  and  the  fumes  given  off 
will  have  a  garlic-like  odor,  due  to  the  vapor  of  arsenic  acid.  Now  look  at  the 
charred  end  and  it  will  be  a  bronze  red.  Place  the  charred  end  a  second  time, 
not  too  far  in  the  flame,  and  the  flame  will  be  colored  green.  By  this  simple 
means,  without  apparatus,  the  presence  of  arsenic  may  be  detected.  (2)  Or 
another  method  is  to  put  a  little  strip  of  the  suspected  paper  in  a  small  saucer 
and  cover  it  with  ordinary  household  ammonia;  after  standing  a  few  minutes  a 
piece  of  lunar  or  stick  caustic  (nitrate  of  silver)  should  be  dropped  in;  if  a  yellow 
precipitate  forms  arsenic  is  present,  and  the  paper  is  not  fit  to  use.  It  is  generally 
thought  that  only  green  colors  contain  arsenic,  but  in  fact  paper  of  any  color 
may  contain  it.  The  only  safe  way  is  to  take  a  sample  and  test,  or  have  it  tested 
before  buying.  If  there  is  any  question,  refer  it  to  a  chemist,  and  make  the 
dealer  pay  the  fee.  You  can't  afford  to  run  risks  in  such  a  matter.  Arsenic 
papers  are  certainly  very  injurious  to  the  health. 

An  Easy  Way  to  Repair  Small  Breaks  in  Wall  Paper. — A  better  and  more 
satisfactory  way  than  patching  the  paper,  is  to  touch  in  the  broken  spots  with 
paint.  A  set  of  children's  paints  is  good  for  this  purpose.  Mix  the  tints  until 
the  same  shade  is  obtained  as  the  broken  spot  in  the  paper,  and  it  will  hardly  be 
noticed.    Several  colors  can  be  worked  in  if  needed. 

Holes  Broken  in  the  Plaster. — These  may  be  repaired  by  taking  equal  parts 
of  plaster  of  paris  and  the  common  white  sand  used  in  families  for  scouring  pur- 
poses; mix  them  to  a  paste  with  water.  Fill  the  holes  with  this,  and  smooth  it 
off  with  any  flat  or  ordinary  kitchen  knife;  it  will  speedily  dry,  and  can  then  be 
papered  over.     If  mixed  with  vinegar  instead  of  water  it  will  not  "set"  so  quickly. 

Fill  cracks  with  the  wall  cement  given  among  our  "Cements." 

To  remove  the  smoke  of  a  kerosene  lamp  from  a  ceiling  see  "Lamps." 

(Jilt  Cornices. — To  Clean. — Wash  them  with  warm  milk,  and  polish  with  cha- 
mois skin. 

LEATHER. 

Castor  Oil  for  Leather.-~Old  leather  can  be  partially  renovated  by  being  im- 
pregnated with  castor  oil,  and  new  leather  preserved  thus,  better  than  by  any 
other  process.  It  will  render  old  boots  soft  and  pliable  and  will  not  prevent  them 
from  taking  blacking.  It  will  double  the  wear  of  driving  belts  used  on  machin- 
ery, and  will  make  old  fire  hose  soft  as  new.  It  will  also  preserve  the  leather 
from  the  attacks  of  rats  and  insects. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  487 

Moldy  Leather.— Remove  the  surface  mold  with  a  dry  cloth,  and  with  another 
cloth  apply  pyroligneous  acid. 

Mildew  on  Leather.— Rub  it  gently  with  vaseline,  to  remove  it. 

To  Clean  Buff  Colored  Leather. — -Dissolve  1  oz.  oxalic  acid  in  1  pint  of  water; 
wash  well  with  this,  and  then  rub  on  a  little  clean  tallow. 

To  Clean  Morocco  Leather. — (1)  Sponge  the  leather  over  with  warm,  soapy 
water  to  remove  all  dust  and  dirt,  and  then  rub  it  over  with  a  piece  of  clean  cloth 
dipped  in  glaire.  (2)  Strain  the  leather  well  over  a  board,  and  scour  well  with  a 
stiff  brush,  using  tepid  water  and  soft  soap,  made  slightly  acid  with  oxalic  acid; 
do  not  saturate  the  leather,  but  keep  the  board  inclined  to  let  the  water  run  off; 
when  done,  unstrain  the  leather  and  dry  it  in  a  cool  place;  when  dry,  rub  a  little 
oil  lightly  over  the  surface  with  a  rag. 

To  Restore  the  Luster  of  Morocco. — Take  a  sponge,  dip  it  in  the  white  of  an 
egg,  and  varnish  the  leather  over. 

To  Make  Leather  Vermin  Proof. — Apply  castor  oil  mixed  with  tallow. 

Acids  on  Leather. — All  acids  and  acid  preparations  destroy  the  life  of  leather. 
For  preserving  its  life  nothing  better  has  ever  been  found  than  castor  oil. 

Patent  and  enameled  leather  will  stick  together  if  the  glazed  sides  are 
placed  together  in  warm  weather.  To  separate  them  when  thus  stuck  place  the 
leather  in  a  drying  or  other  hot  room;  when  hot  they  can  be  separated  without 
injury;  or  spread  them  on  a  tin  roof  on  a  hot  day  and  they  will  soon  heat  enough 
to  separate.  Any  attempt  to  separate  them  without  heating  to  a  high  degree 
will  spoil  them. 

To  Tan  or  Cure  Small  Skins  with  the  Fur  On. — (1)  Clean  off  the  flesh  thor- 
oughly, and  then  spread  butter  all  over  the  flesh  side,  and  then  tramp  on  them  or 
otherwise  work  the  butter  thoroughly  into  the  skin,  until  it  is  pliable  and  thor- 
oughly cured.  Skins  thus  treated  are  soft,  pliable  and  very  satisfactory.  (2) 
Take  %  lb.  alum,  34  lb.  sulphate  of  soda,  2  oz.  sulphur,  3  oz.  sulphate  of  potash, 
3  oz.  salt;  mix  all  in  1  quart  of  water.  Spread  this  on  the  flesh  side,  fold  the  skin 
in  the  middle  flesh  to  flesh;  leave  thus  3  or  4  days,  and  then  hang  up  to  dry.  It 
will  be  soft,  pliable  and  well  tanned.  The  above  amount  will  do  for  1  dogskin, 
sheepskin,  calfskin,  etc.  Double  the  amount  for  a  small  hide  for  a  robe;  heavier 
hides  in  proportion.  (3)  For  a  sheepskin  for  a  rug,  boil  the  skin  in  a  suds  contain- 
ing a  little  sal  soda;  then  soak  over  night  in  a  solution  of  %  lb-  each  of  alum  and 
common  salt,  with  just  enough  water  to  cover.  Then  tack  it  to  a  smooth  surface, 
flesh  side  out,  to  dry,  and  while  damp  sprinkle  it  with  powdered  alum  and  salt- 
petre. In  a  few  days  scrape  it  with  pumice  stone,  when  it  will  become  soft  and 
pliable.  Line  with  heavy  flannel,  and  scallop  the  edges,  allowing  these  to  project 
enough  to  give  a  pretty  ornamental  finish  to  the  rug. 

To  Make  Qlaire. — (1)  Whip  up  the  white  of  eggs  and  allow  it  to  stand;  pour 
off  the  clear  liquid  and  that  is  what  is  used.  (2)  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  water,  and  add  a  little  sugar  candy. 

To  Make  Leather  Waterproof. — Coat  it  with  a  solution  of  India  rubber  and 
boiled  linseed  oil. 

To  Wash  Chamois  Skin. — Rub  plenty  of  soft  soap  into  the  skin,  and  then  soak 
it  for  2  hours  in  a  weak  solution  of  soda  and  warm  water;  then  rub  till  it  is  quite 
clean,  and  rinse  well  in  a  weak  solution  of  warm  water,  soda,  and  yellow  soap.  If 
rinsed  in  clear  water  alone  it  will  become  hard;  it  is  the  little  soap  left  in  the 
lather  which  enables  it  to  become  soft  like  silk.  After  rinsing,  wring  well  in  a 
rough  towel,  dry  quickly,  and  then  pull  and  brush  it  thoroughly.  It  will  be  bet- 
ter than  most  new  leather,  and  this  is  the  best  way  to  clean  it.  Chamois  jackets 
or  any  chamois  article  can  be  cleaned  this  way. 

Care  of  Boots  and  Shoes. — By  taking  a  little  care  of  boots  and  shoes  they  can  be 
made  to  wear  much  longer,  and  they  will  always  look  better.  Do  not  use  much  of 
the  dressings  so  fashionable  for  ladies'  and  children's  shoes — most  of  them  crack 
the  leather  and  ruin  it.  Do  not  leave  shoes  kicking  about  when  not  in  use,  but 
on  taking  them  off,  air  them  a  while,  brush  off  the  mud  or  dirt,  oil  or  polish 
them,  put  them  in  a  box  or  shoe  bag,  and  when  wanted  they  will  be  in  good  con- 
dition.   The  family  shoe  bill  can  be  reduced  %  by  a  little  intelligent  care. 

Acid  Blackings. — These  are  generally  used  for  boots  and  shoes  until  every 
particle  of  oil  in  the  leather  is  destroyed.  To  remedy  this,  wash  off  the  blacking 
and  apply  castor  oil;  then  set  away  for  1  or  2  days.    This  will  renew  the  elasticity 


498  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

and  life  of  the  leather  and  prevent  its  cracking.    Oil  blackings  are  best  for  boots 
and  shoes,  as  acid  blacking  destroys  the  life  of  the  leather. 

Care  of  Kid  Boots. — For  an  excellent  polish  beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  water  and  a  little  sugar  candy;  if  well  made  it  is  quite  trans- 
parent and  not  at  all  sticky.  It  is  good  for  all  fine  leather,  especially  kid.  Touch 
up  kid  boots  with  a  mixture  of  castor  oil  and  ink.  The  ink  blackens  and  the  oil 
softens  them,  and  keeps  them  in  fine  condition.  Or,  to  restore  the  color,  mix  a 
little  good  polish  blacking  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  apply. 

To  Clean  White  Satin  Shoes. — These  should  be  kept  closely  wrapped  in  blue 
paper — they  will  not  bear  exposure  to  the  air.  When  slightly  soiled,  they  may 
be  cleaned  with  stale  bread  or  cornmeal ;  if  very  dirty,  wipe  lengthwise  of  the 
satin  with  a  clean  flannel  dipped  in  spirits  of  wine,  or  with  gasoline. 

To  Clean  Patent  Leather  Shoes.— Wipe  off  mud,  etc.,  with  a  sponge  moistened 
with  lukewarm  water  and  afterwards  rub  with  a  soft  cloth  or  old  silk  handker- 
chief. Rub  occasionally  with  a  little  milk,  or  sweet  oil,  and  soft  cloth.  Black 
and  polish  the  edge  of  the  sole  in  the  usual  way,  but  without  covering  the  patent 
leather  top.    Patent  leather  cracks  easily  when  cold,  so  it  should  be  kept  warm. 

To  Clean  Tan  Shoes. — Dissolve  a  tablespoon  of  salt  in  warm  water;  mix  with 
it  1  pint  cold  water,  in  which  1  oz.  salts  of  lemon  has  been  dissolved.  Wash 
the  boots  or  shoes  with  a  little  of  this  preparation  and  dry  them  well.  Polish 
them  off  afterwards  with  soft  flannel,  or  an  old  silk  handkerchief. 

To  Clean  Top  Boots. — Clean  the  lower  part  in  the  usual  way,  but  protect  the 
top  by  inserting  a  fold  of  cloth  under  the  edges  and  bringing  it  up  over  them. 
When  cleaning  the  top  let  this  covering  fall  down  over  the  lower  part.  Clean 
the  top  by  washing  with  soap  and  flannel,  and  rub  out  any  spots  with  pumice 
stone.  If  the  tops  are  wanted  whiter,  dissolve  1  oz.  of  oxalic  acid,  %  oz.  of 
muriatic  acid,  %  oz.  of  alum,  J£  oz.  of  gum  arabic,  and  3^  oz.  of  spirit  of  lavender, 
in  1%  pints  of  skimmed  milk  "turned."  Apply  by  means  of  a  sponge,  and  polish 
when  dry,  with  a  rubber  or  soft  flannel. 

Brown  Leather  may  be  cleaned  with  this  last  preparation. 

Wash  for  Boot  Tops.— Mix  in  a  phial  1  drachm  of  chlorate  of  potash  with  2 
oz.  distilled  water,  and,  when  the  potash  is  dissolved,  add  2  oz.  of  muriatic  acid. 
Then  shake  well  together  in  another  phial,  3  oz.  of  strong  spirits  of  wine,  with  % 
oz.  of  essential  oil  of  lemons;  then  unite  the  contents  of  the  2  phials,  and  keep  the 
liquid  thus  prepared  closely  corked  for  use.  This  liquid  should  be  applied  with 
a  clean  sponge;  then  dried  with  a  gentle  heat,  and  polished  with  a  soft  brush. 
The  tops  will  appear  like  new  leather. 

To  Restore  Color  to  Leather. — Take  a  small  quantity  of  good  black  ink,  mix 
it  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  apply  with  a  sponge. 

To  Soften  the  Leather. — To  make  the  leather  soft  and  pliable  castor  oil  is 
better  than  any  other.  A  teaspoon  of  castor  oil  rubbed  into  shoes  by  the  fire 
when  they  are  new,  and  repeated  occasionally  afterwards,  will  add  greatly  to 
their  wear. 

To  Ease  Boots  Slightly  Tight  at  the  Heel.— Rub  the  inside  of  the  heel  with 
dry  soap. 

To  Tie  a  Shoestring. — First  tie  a  single  (not  double)  bow-knot;  then  using 
the  long  end  of  the  string  and  the  loop  or  bow  already  formed  tie  them  into  a 
bow-knot.    A  firm  knot  will  result  which  will  not  untie  of  itself. 

To  Make  Boots  and  Shoes  Wear. — Turn  the  boots  or  shoes  bottom  upwards 
and  see  that  the  soles  are  dry.  If  new,  scrape  the  black  off  the  bottom  of  the 
heel.  Then  apply,  a  few  hours  apart,  as  many  coats  of  thin  varnish  as  will  soak 
in.  The  second  day  after  applying  the  last  coat  begin  to  wear  the  boot  so  that  it 
will  shape  itself  to  the  foot  while  moist.  This  will  make  the  soles  waterproof 
and  greatly  increase  their  wear.  For  the  uppers,  apply  while  warm,  4  parts  of 
lard  to  1  of  resin,  well  mixed. 

If  two  pairs  of  shoes  are  worn  alternately,  allowing  1  pair  to  rest  while  the 
other  is  worn,  they  will  wear  much  longer  than  if  1  pair  is  worn  continuously. 
Taking  off  the  shoes  worn  in  the  street,  when  in  the  house,  is  both  restful,  and 
gives  the  shoes  a  chance  to  air  and  dry. 

Drying  Wet  Boots. — Fill  them  with  oats,  instead  of  drying  before  the  fire. 
These  absorb  the  moisture  and  keep  the  boots  in  shape.  Shake  out  the  oats 
next  day.  Or,  stuff  them  with  paper  to  keep  them  in  shape.  Never  dry  wet 
boots  or  shoes  quickly  before  the  fire — it  hardens  them.    Dry  them  slowly. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  489 

To  Soften  Wet  Boots  and  Shoes. — Take  1  gill  linseed  oil,  1  oz.  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine, %  oz-  Burgundy  pitch,  and  1  oz.  beeswax;  melt  together,  and  rub  into  the 
leather,  when  quite  dry,  before  the  fire.  Good  also  for  preserving  leather  from 
rain  and  sea  water.  Applying  castor  oil  is  also  excellent;  kerosene  is  sometimes 
used,  but  is  not  so  good. 

To  Stop  Squeaking. — (1)  Soak  the  soles  for  a  couple  of  hours  in  linseed  oil. 
(2)  Drive  a  couple  of  pegs  in  the  middle  of  the  soles.  (3)  Shake  a  little  French 
chalk  through  a  small  hole  made  in  the  inner  sole. 

Waterproof  Soles  for  Shoes. — Melted  beeswax,  thinned  with  sweet  oil,  and 
poured  with  a  spoon  on  to  the  soles  of  shoes  or  boots,  warmed  before  the  fire, 
until  no  more  will  soak  in,  will  make  them  waterproof  and  much  more  durable. 

Shoe  Dressing. — Take  1  oz.  gum  shellac,  3^  oz.  borax,  1  packet  slate  Diamond 
dye,  and  1  pint  boiling  water;  cut  the  shellac  in  a  little  alcohol,  or  put  it  in  a 
dish  and  set  it  over  boiling  water  till  dissolved.  Moisten  the  dye  in  a  little  cold 
water,  then  pour  over  the  boiling  water  and  dissolve  the  borax  in  the  same;  then 
add  this,  while  hot,  to  the  dissolved  shellac,  and  thoroughly  mix  them  together; 
bottle  for  use  while  warm.    A  good  dressing  and  easily  made  at  home. 

Waterproof  Dressing.— Take  1  pint  of  drying  oil,  2  oz.  yellow  wax,  2  oz.  tur- 
pentine, $4,  oz-  Burgundy  pitch;  melt  together  over  a  slow  fire.  Apply  with  a 
sponge  and  the  boots  will  be  waterproof,  and  will  never  shrivel. 

Waterproof  Blacking. — Put  34  lb.  of  shellac  in  a  large  nosed  bottle,  and 
cover  it  with  alcohol;  cork  it  and  leave  for  a  few  days  until  fully  cut.  Then  add 
%  oz.  of  lampblack,  and  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  gum  camphor,  and  let  stand  3 
or  4  days,  stirring  it  occasionally  until  well  dissolved.  Apply  with  an  old  cloth 
to  the  leather. 

Japan  Blacking  for  Boots  and  Shoes. — Take  8  parts  of  treacle,  1  part  of  lamp- 
black, 1  part  of  sweet  oil,  1  part  of  gum  arabic,  1  part  of  isinglass,  32  parts  water, 
1  oz.  spirits  of  wine,  and  a  little  ox-gall.  Mix  the  treacle,  lampblack,  sweet  oil, 
gum  and  isinglass  in  the  water;  set  over  the  fire  to  heat,  stirring  it  well;  add  the 
spirits  of  wine  and  ox-gall,  and  bottle  as  soon  as  possible.  Apply  with  a  sponge, 
and  warm  the  bottle  before  using. 

Polish. — Take  of  ivory  black  and  treacle  each  4  oz.,  sulphuric  acid  1  oz.,  best 
olive  oil  2  spoonfuls,  best  white  wine  vinegar  3  cups;  mix  the  ivory-black  and 
treacle  well  in  an  earthen  jar;  then  add  the  sulphuric  acid,  continuing  to  stir  the 
mixture;  next  pour  in  the  oil;  and  lastly  add  the  vinegar,  stirring  it  in  by  degrees 
until  thoroughly  incorporated.  A  good  polish — better  than  many  sold  in  stores, 
but  it  is  an  acid  blacking. 


WOODENWARE. 

To  Take  the  Woody  Taste  out  of  New  Woodenware. — Scald  it  out  first  with 
boiling  hot  water,  and  leave  it  in  until  it  gets  cold;  then  empty  it  out.  Next 
make  a  lye  of  warm  water  and  soda  (say  1  lb.  soda  to  %  barrel  of  soft  water)  and 
to  this  add  a  little  lime;  wash  out  the  article  thoroughly  with  this  mixture.  Then 
take  clear  hot  water  and  scald  it  out  again,  and  finally  rinse  it  out  well  with 
clean  cold  water. 

To  Sweeten  Woodenware. — An  excellent  thing  to  sweeten  woodenware  is  hay 
water;  charcoal  is  also  good. 

New  Woodenware. — New  wooden  articles  should  be  prepared  for  domestic 
use  by  a  thorough  soaking  in  cold  water,  and  scalding  them  afterwards.  A  new 
wooden  bowl  put  into  a  large  kettle  of  cold  brine  and  heated  to  the  boiling  point 
and  then  allowed  to  cool,  will  be  less  likely  to  crack.  It  is  an  excellent  plan  to 
grease  a  new  wooden  bowl  inside  and  out,  before  it  is  used  at  all;  let  it  stand  1  or 
2  days  to  soak  in,  and  then  scour  well  until  quite  clear  from  grease. 

Washing  Woodenware.— Wash  utensils  made  of  wood  at  once  after_  being 
used,  because  if  grease  and  dirt  are  once  allowed  to  soak  into  the  wood  it  may 
be  impossible  to  restore  them.  Wash  woodenware  with  lukewarm  water  and 
soap,  adding  a  little  soda;  then  rinse  with  cold  water,  and  wipe  as  dry  as  possible. 
In  washing  a  wooden  bowl  dry  it  well  with  a  cloth,  and  then  set  it  away  in  a  cool 
place.    Never  dry  it  near  the  fire,  as  that  cracks  it. 

Drying  Woodenware. — In  drying  any  woodenware,  like  molding-boards,  chop- 

30 


490  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

ping-bowls,  etc.,  never  put  them  near  the  fire  after  being  washed.  Dry  them 
with  a  cloth  and  then  put  them  in  a  cool  place,  as  they  will  crack  and  warp  if 
exposed  to  dry  heat  while  damp. 

Pails  and  Tubs. — These  may  be  kept  from  shrinking  by  saturating  them  with 
glycerine.  A  pailful  of  water  put  into  a  tub  as  soon  as  you  are  through  using  it 
will  keep  it  from  warping.  Scald  out  woodenware  often,  say  once  a  week  for 
pails  in  active  use,  using  boiling  hot  water  and  soda.  Two  or  three  coats  of  copal 
varnish  applied  to  the  inside  of  new  wooden  pails  will  keep  them  from  water 
soaking,  or  from  flavoring  the  water. 

Wooden  Spoons. — These  can  be  kept  from  splitting  if  as  soon  as  bought,  and 
before  being  used,  they  are  greased  thoroughly  with  lard  or  butter;  let  it  soak  in 
well,  laying  them  near  the  fire  to  effect  it.    Treat  wooden  forks  the  same  way. 

Incombustible  Varnish  for  Wood. — Make  a  solution  of  equal  parts  of  isinglass 
and  alum,  apply  it  to  the  wood  and  let  dry.  Fluids  can  be  boiled  over  an  ordi- 
nary fire  in  a  wooden  vessel  thus  coated. 

Casks. — Before  being  filled  these  should  be  scalded  out  with  boiling  water, 
allowed  to  cool,  and  examined  as  to  their  cleanliness.  If  a  cask  smells  sour, 
especially  in  summer  weather,  put  in  dry  lime  through  the  bung-hole,  breaking 
it  up  into  small  pieces,  and  put  in  perhaps  4  lbs.  to  a  barrel;  then  put  in  about  I 
gallons  of  boiling  water,  bung  it  up,  and  leave  several  hours,  occasionally  rolling 
it  about.  Then  empty  it  out,  wash  out  the  cask  well,  steam  it,  let  it  cool,  and  it 
will  be  fit  to  contain  anything.  Another  way  to  treat  a  musty  cask  is  to  burn  a 
little  sulphur  in  it  while  empty,  close  the  bung,  and  let  it  stand  a  day  or  so. 

Casks  in  which  the  inside  has  been  charred  will  preserve  water,  salt  meat,  etc., 
for  some  time. 

To  Clean  Cider  Casks.— (1)  Half  fill  with  boiling  water,  add  J^  lb.  pearlash, 
bung  up,  turn  over  occasionally  for  two  days,  empty,  and  wash  with  boiling 
water.  (2)  Scald  out  with  boiling  water;  if  the  heads  are  out  put  the  cask  over 
a  fire  of  straw  for  a  few  minutes  so  as  to  slightly  char  the  inside.  If  you  have  a 
steam  boiler,  partly  fill  the  cask  with  water,  put  a  steam  pipe  through  the  bung- 
hole  into  the  water,  turn  on  the  steam,  and  so  boil  it. 

Barrels,  to  Clean. — Put  into  the  barrel  a  few  lbs.  of  unslacked  lime,  add  water 
and  close  tight;  let  stand  awhile,  then  put  in  more  water  and  roll  the  barrel; 
then  empty  it  and  rinse  out  thoroughly  with  clean  water. 

To  Clean  Old  Vinegar  Barrels. — Fill  them  with  milk  of  lime  and  leave  it  in 
for  several  months;  then  rinse  them  out  thoroughly  with  warm  water,  and  steam 
the  inside  for  %  hour.  Old  vinegar  barrels  become  so  impregnated  with  acetous 
substances  that  it  is  difficult  to  render  them  fit  for  storing  other  liquids. 


FEATHERS  AND   HAIR. 

Feathers. — To  Clean  and  Purify. — Put  the  feathers  from  beds,  pillows,  etc.,  in 
bags,  soak  them  %  hour  or  so  in  boiling  hot  water  containing  soda,  then  rinse 
them  well  through  2  or  3  waters,  put  them  through  a  wringer;  shake  them  up 
and  dry  in  the  hot  sun,  turning  occasionally  and  drying  them  as  rapidly  as  pos- 
sible, until  apparently  dry,  and  then  lay  them  in  a  warm  oven  on  a  board  or  paper 
till  light  and  dry. 

Feather  pillows  laid  out  on  clean  grass  till  thoroughly  wet  through  during  a 
heavy  rain  storm  will  be  made  fresh  and  light;  dry  in  the  shade,  but  never  ex- 
pose them  to  the  direct  rays  of  the  sun. 

A  Hint. — Bed  ticking  which  is  so  thick  that  the  air  cannot  penetrate  it  read- 
ily should  have  a  goose  quill  sewed  in  each  corner  to  admit  the  air,  and  thus 
ventilate  the  feathers. 

To  Clean  Feathers  from  their  Own  Animal  Oil. — Steep  them  in  1  gallon  of 
water  mixed  with  1  lb.  of  lime;  stir  them  well,  and  then  pour  off  the  water,  and 
rinse  the  feathers  in  cold  spring  water.  To  clean  feathers  from  dirt,  simply  wash 
them  in  hot  water  with  soap;  rinse  in  hot  water,  and  dry  them. 

Neio  goose  feathers  which  have  a  disagreeable  odor  may  be  freed  from  it  by 
washing  them  in  water  with  baking  soda;  then  rinse  them  in  water  containing 
ammonia,  then  twice  in  clear  water;  run  through  the  wringer,  and  dry. 

Swansdown. — This  may  be  cleaned  by  tacking  strips  on  a  piece  of  muslin  j 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  491 

then  wash  it  well,  using  the  best  white  soap  and  warm  water.  Rinse  in  clean 
cold  water,  and  dry  in  the  wind.  Then  soften  the  feather  by  carefully  rubbing 
it  between  the  fingers,  after  taking  it  off  from  the  muslin.  It  will  look  like 
new. 

To  Clean  White  Ostrich  Feathers. — Prepare  a  thick,  warm  lather  of  white 
soap;  let  the  feathers  soak  in  this  a  few  minutes  (have  a  pan  long  enough  to  let 
the  feathers  lay  straight),  and  then  draw  the  feathers  through  the  fingers,  using 
a  moderate  degree  of  pressure,  and  repeating  until  they  are  clean;  rinse  in  clear 
warm  water  to  take  out  the  soap,  and  then  in  another  water  containing  a  little 
bluing,  and  a  few  drops  of  spirits  of  salt;  then  draw  through  the  fingers  to 
squeeze  out  all  the  water  possible,  shake  well,  and  dry  before  a  moderate  fire, 
shaking  occasionally.    When  dry,  curl  them. 

For  cream  colored  feathers  wash  as  above,  but  omit  the  bluing  and  add  a 
little  coffee  to  the  last  water  in  which  they  are  rinsed.  Afterwards  the  edges 
may  be  very  prettily  tinted  by  using  an  old  red  rose  leaf,  moistened  a  little. 

Darker  colored  feathers  can  be  washed  in  the  same  way,  but  neither  bluing 
nor  coffee  should  be  used  in  the  rinsing  water. 

Grebe  Feathers. — These  may  be  washed  with  warm  soft  water  and  white  soap, 
much  like  white  ostrich  feathers,  but  do  not  shake  them  until  quite  dry. 

To  Curl  Ostrich  Plumes. — (1)  Heat  them  over  a  hot  stove  or  flat-iron,  and, 
using  a  bone,  ivory  or  dull  silver  blade,  draw  the  fibers  of  the  feather  between  the 
finger  and  the  dull  edge  of  the  blade;  begin  at  the  point  of  the  plume,  and  take 
not  more  than  3  fibers  at  a  time;  curl  %  °?  them  the  opposite  way.  If  the  stem 
needs  bending  hold  it  around  a  warm  stove  pipe  or  lamp  chimney.  (2)  Another 
and  easy  way  to  curl  plumes  is  to  put  sugar  or  salt  on"  a  hot  stove,  or  corn  cobs 
and  salt  on  a  pan  of  coals,  and  hold  the  plume  in  the  smoke,  shaking  it  about, 
and  turning  every  part  to  the  smoke;  the  more  you  shake  the  plume  the  better 
it  will  look;  be  careful  not  to  scorch  it. 

Broken  Feathers. — A  broken  feather  may  be  repaired  by  sewing  bonnet  wire 
along  the  under  side  nicely,  choosing  silk  thread  that  matches  the  color  of  the 
plume,  and  using  a  long  button  hole  stitch. 

Cleaning  the  Feathers  on  Stuffed  Birds. — (1)  Naturalists  clean  the  feathers 
of  stuffed  specimens  of  birds  by  covering  them  over  with  a  thin  paste  made  of 
common  starch  and  cold  water.  Let  it  dry  a  couple  of  days,  and  then  "  fillip  "  it 
off  gently,  beginning  at  the  bird's  head  and  going  on  regularly  down  to  the  tail, 
which  leaves  the  feathers  beautifully  "plumed."  (2)  Feathers  on  stuffed  speci- 
mens are  also  cleaned  by  putting  on  them  a  paste  made  of  pipeclay  and  water, 
rubbing  them  one  way  only;  when  quite  dry  shake  off  the  powder. 

"  Setting "  Feathers. — Feathers  on  stuffed  birds  may  be  "  set "  by  merely 
arranging  them  naturally  with  a  needle,  or  any  pointed  instrument. 

To  Bleach  Feathers. — (1)  First  remove  the  oily  matter  by  immersing  them  for 
a  short  time  in  naphtha  or  benzine;  then  rinse  them  in  the  same  a  second  time, 
and  thoroughly  dry  them  by  exposure  to  the  air.  Then  bleach  them  by  expos- 
ing them  to  the  vapor  of  burning  sulphur,  in  a  moist  atmosphere.  This  process 
will  not  injure  the  feathers.  (2)  Prepare  a  warm  soapsuds  (at  175°  to  185°)  and 
soak  the  feathers  in  it  a  few  hours;  then  suspend  them  on  a  thread  and  expose 
them  to  the  direct  rays  of  the  sun,  moistening  them  frequently. 

Dying  Feathers. — Feathers  may  be  dyed  beautifully  by  using  the  aniline 
dyes  that  are  put  up  for  dying  Easter  eggs,  etc.,  and  which  can  be  bought  at  the 
stores.  Various  colors'  can  be  bought,  and  many  shades  may  be  produced  by 
combinations  of  them,  and  by  diluting  them  more  or  less  with  water.  To  pro- 
duce grey  feathers,  with  white  spots,  fasten  thick  paper  on  the  places  designed 
to  be  white,  and  spatter  the  balance  nicely  and  evenly  with  India  ink  or  brown 
aniline. 

Curled  Hair. — To  clean  this,  select  a  pleasant  day  and  take  the  hair  out  of  the 
mattress  carefully  so  as  not  to  be  choked  with  the  dust.  Pick  it  over  thoroughly 
and  wash  it  through  strong  soapsuds  several  times,  doing  only  a  little  at  a  time. 
Then  rinse  thoroughly;  wring  as  dry  as  possible,  and  spread  it  out  thinly  be- 
tween 2  sheets  of  muslin.  Then  baste  the  ends,  and  quilt  it  in  a  few  places  in 
the  middle,  and  hang  it  out  to  dry.  Choose  an  empty  room  to  do  it  in,  because, 
gf  the  dust  it  makes. 


492  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 


CLOTHING  AND  CLOTH. 


Care  of  Clothing. — Clothing  of  any  kind  will  last  very  much  longer  when 
properly  cared  for,  than  it  will  when  carelessly  handled  and  neglected.  It  is  sur- 
prising how  heedless  some  people  are  about  the  care  of  their  clothes,  and  how 
much  can  be  saved  in  the  clothing  bill  of  a  family  by  a  little  intelligent  care. 

The  quantity  of  clothes  should  be  considered.  It  is  a  great  mistake  to  think 
that  in  order  to  dress  well  it  is  necessary  to  have  a  very  large  wardrobe.  Too 
many  clothes  are  worse  than  useless.  They  lie  unused,  soon  go  out  of  style,  and 
no  benefit  is  derived  from  them.  To  dress  well  at  moderate  expense,  get  what 
clothes  you  need,  and  no  more;  take  good  care  of  those  you  have,  and  when  they 
wear  out  buy  more.  This  is  equally  true  of  underclothing  and  outside  garments. 
Sensible  people  no  longer  pride  themselves  on  possessing  larger  stocks  of  any 
garments  than  they  really  need. 

In  caring  for  clothes,  as  in  so  many  other  things,  it  is  of  the  first  importance 
to  have  a  place  for  everything,  and  to  put  everything  in  its  place.  This  is  at 
times  a  little  difficult  in  small  houses  where  one  is  crowded  for  room,  and  yet 
even  here  a  little  planing  and  management  will  often  accomplish  wonders.  Any 
one  with  the  spirit  of  order  will  find  vastly  more  room  than  a  disorderly  and 
thoughtless  person  would  think  possible.  Devise  shoe  bags,  and  the  many 
other  conveniences  which  the  ingenious  housewife  can  make  herself  and  utilize 
so  well. 

Never  put  clothing  of  any  kind  away  without  first  cleaning  it.  Look  it  over 
also,  and  make  any  little  repairs  that  may  be  needed.  Clothing  which  is  put 
away  in  good  condition  will  come  out  fresh  and  bright,  but  if  put  away  dusty  and 
dirty,  the  dust  will  take  hold  of  it,  and  it  will  soon  look  seedy  and  ill-cared  for. 
On  taking  off  woolen  goods,  see  that  they  are  well  shaken  and  brushed;  let  vel- 
vet and  silk  be  wiped  with  a  flannel,  and  let  merino,  serge,  cashmere,  and  similar 
fabrics  be  thoroughly  brushed.  Put  a  clothes  brush  in  every  bed  room,  or  pro- 
vide enough  so  that  there  will  be  no  excuse  for  any  member  of  the  family  who 
neglects  to  use  one.  Silk  dresses  should  never  be  brushed,  but  rub  them  with  a 
soft  piece  of  merino  or  flannel,  kept  for  the  purpose. 

If  caught  in  the  rain  or  when  clothing  becomes  damp  for  any  reason,  give  it 
immediate  attention.  Do  not  carelessly  hang  it  up,  but  spread  it  out  to  dry, 
after  shaking  it  well.  If  creases  appear  when  it  is  dry,  iron  them  out,  but  on  no 
account  put  clothing  away  at  all  damp;  that  speedily  causes  mildew.  As  rain 
and  damp  speedily  take  the  freshness  and  beauty  out  of  garments,  it  is  always 
wise  to  wear  one's  older  clothes  in  unpleasant  weather,  reserving  the  best  gar- 
ments for  pleasant  days;  the  best  clothes  are  not  expected  in  unpleasant  weather. 

Putting  Away  Clothing. — The  manner  of  putting  away  clothes  is  important. 
All  skirts,  jackets,  and  waterproofs  should  have  loops  attached  by  which  they 
can  be  hung.  The  bulging  out  occasioned  by  hanging  directly  on  a  hook  spoils 
the  appearance  of  a  garment.  If  a  skirt  is  provided  with  3  bands — 1  on  the 
right  side,  1  on  the  left,  and  1  at  the  back  to  hold  up  the  drapery  (as  it  should 
be)  it  is  much  better  to  hang  it  up,  than  to  fold  it  and  lay  it  away.  The  best 
way  to  deal  with  good  dresses  is  to  hang  them  by  their  loops  in  large  bags  made 
of  old  sheets.  Make  these  bags  to  button  down  the  front  so  that  the  dresses  can 
be  put  in  easily.  Stuff  out  the  bows  and  busts  with  papers — royal  ladies  always 
have  their  dresses  put  away  thus,  it  is  said.  This  will  obviate  all  necessity  for 
turning  a  dress  inside  out  before  hanging  it  up — a  process  which  makes  creases, 
spoils  trimmings,  and  tends  to  make  a  skirt  lie  flat. 

When  packing  away  silk  or  woolen  goods  which  you  fear  may  turn  yellow 
break  up  a  few  cakes  of  white  beeswax,  fold  these  pieces  loosely  in  old  thin 
handkerchiefs,  and  place  them  among  the  goods.  Pin  the  goods  in  old  white 
linen  sheets  if  you  have  them;  if  not,  use  cotton. 

Mantles,  bodices  and  waistcoats  should  be  neatly  folded,  so  as  to  keep  them 
as  straight  as  possible,  and  laid  flat  on  a  shelf,  covered  with  paper  or  muslin,  to 
keep  them  from  the  dust.    They  should  never  be  hung  up. 

Cotton  and  muslin  dresses  should  not  be  put  away  with  the  starch  in  them, 
as  that  tends  to  make  them  rot.  Leave  them  rough-dried  when  they  are  not  to 
be  worn  for  some  time. 

If  silk  garments  are  laid  away  wrapped  in  paper,  do  »ot  use  white,  as  the  color 


ALt  ABOUT  THE  HOtTStL  M 

of  the  silk  may  be  impaired  by  the  chloride  of  lime,  which  is  used  for  bleaching 
white  paper.  The  best  paper  to  use  is  probably  the  yellow  India  paper,  and  next 
to  that  is  brown  or  blue.  Do  not  buy  silk  intended  for  dresses,  long  in  advance 
of  its  use,  as  it  is  liable  to  crack  or  split,  if  kept  lying  in  folds  long,  especially  if 
it  is  stiffened  with  gum. 

Ribbons. — The  best  way  to  keep  ribbons  is  to  roll  them  round  a  block  and 
then  wrap  them  in  soft  paper. 

Creases. — These  can  usually  be  removed  with  a  little  effort.  If  a  garment  is 
hung  before  a  fire  they  will  often  disappear.  If  not,  dampen  them  a  little,  lay  on 
a  piece  of  paper  or  muslin,  and  press  with  a  cool  iron. 

At  the  close  of  each  season  go  over  the  articles  which  have  been  worn,  and 
sort  out  and  dispose  of  them,  instead  of  packing  them  all  away  together.  Arti- 
cles which  can  be  worn  again  should  be  brushed,  repaired,  and  put  away;  those 
which  are  to  be  pulled  to  pieces,  should  be  so  treated  at  once,  and  cleaned  or 
dyed,  as  the  case  may  be.  If  left  as  they  are  they  will  deteriorate  in  condition 
and  occupy  valuable  room.  Articles  of  no  further  use  to  you  should  be  given  to 
some  poor  person,  or  sold  to  the  rag  man. 

Having  sorted  out  and  cleaned  the  clothing,  pack  it  away  for  the  season. 
Fold  it  carefully  so  that  no  needless  wrinkles  will  be  formed,  and  pack  it  away 
in  a  chest  or  trunk.  Put  the  heaviest  articles  at  the  bottom,  and  lay  the  others 
on  carefully.  A  good  way  to  pack  them  is  to  lay  out  a  sheet  in  the  trunk  and  lay 
on  a  newspaper;  then  lay  in  the  clothing,  sprinkling  it  well  with  camphor,  cedar 
shavings,  or  any  other  moth  preventive  (see  our  article  on  insect  pests),  and  then 
covering  it  with  a  newspaper,  draw  the  sheet  together  and  pin  it  so  that  the  edges 
all  overlap  each  other.    Then  shut  and  fasten  the  chest  or  trunk. 

Men's  Clothing. — This  is  quite  as  much  benefited  by  care  as  that  of  ladies. 
Coats  are  best  kept  in  shape  by  hanging  them  on  the  wire  frames  which  are  now 
so  easily  obtained,  and  are  so  cheap.  When  a  frame  is  not  used  hang  them  by  a 
loop,  and  not  directly  on  the  hook  by  the  collar.  Brush  the  coat  carefully  on 
taking  it  off,  and  before  putting  it  away. 

On  taking  off  trousers  which  have  been  worn  in  wet  weather,  and,  possibly, 
turned  up  at  the  bottom,  shake  them,  pull  them  out  lengthwise,  and  dry  them 
under  pressure.  Keep  them  hung  up  on  the  wire  frames,  made  for  the  purpose, 
like  the  coat  frames.  A  trousers  stretcher  will  take  out  wrinkles  and  creases 
and  is  a  good  investment.  If  that  is  not  used,  nor  the  wire  frames,  fold  them  as 
the  tailor  folds  them  before  they  are  laid  away.  Trousers,  like  shoes,  wear 
longer,  and  keep  in  shape  better,  if  2  pairs  are  kept  and  worn  alternately.  Fre- 
quent changing  and  stretching  between  times,  will  keep  them  from  becoming 
baggy  at  the  knees.  Another  good  plan  for  hanging  them  up  is  to  have  a  pair  of 
suspenders  for  each  pair  of  trousers  and  on  taking  off  a  pair  to  hang  them  by  the 
suspenders  on  2  hooks  about  as  far  apart  as  a  man's  shoulders.  This  keeps 
them  in  shape.  Turning  them  inside  out  before  hanging  them  up  is  another 
good  plan. 

Burning  Clothing. — When  the  clothing  takes  fire  the  first  impulse  of  the  vic- 
tim is  to  rush  somewhere,  but  that  is  the  worst  thing  to  do,  as  it  causes  a  draught 
and  increases  the  flames.  A  bystander  should  throw  the  victim  on  the  ground 
and  then  try  and  smother  the  flames  by  wrapping  her  in  anything  at  hand,  like  a 
coat,  rug,  blanket  or  table  cover.  Try  and  keep  the  flames  from  the  neck  and  face, 
and  from  being  breathed,  so  wrap  first  at  the  shoulders  and  then  work  down. 
A  lady  who  is  alone  in  a  house,  and  whose  clothes  take  fire,  should  sieze  any- 
thing at  hand  and  at  once  lie  down,  wrapping  herself  in  it  and  rolling  over.  In 
this  way  the  flames  may  be  extinguished,  but  if  she  runs  out  into  the  air  it  will 
only  make  it  worse.  If  the  house  was  on  fire  she  might  run  into  the  yard  and 
throw  herself  on  the  ground,  but  should  go  no  further. 

At  once  throwing  some  flour,  when  it  is  convenient,  on  the  clothing  which  is 
set  on  fire  by  an  exploding  lamp  or  the  spilling  of  oil,  may  put  out  the  flames  and 
prevent  a  terrible  accident. 

Fireproof  Clothing.— -The  following  plans  for  rendering  clothing  uninflammable 
are  the  results  of  many  experiments,  and  are  taken  largely  from  French  and  Ger- 
man authorities.  Children's  clothing  and  muslin  dresses,  should  be  fireproofed 
when  laundered.  (1)  Put  1  or  2  oz.  of  alum  in  the  last  water  used  in  rinsing 
children's  clothes.    It  renders  them  less  inflammable.    (2)  Take  8  parts  sulphate 


494  AtL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

of  ammonia,  2)4  parts  carbonate  of  ammonia,  2  parts  boracic  acid,  1%  parts 
borax,  2  parts  starch,  and  100  parts  water;  mix,  and  starch  the  dresses  with  this 
compound.  (3)  Take  5  parts  boracic  acid,  15  parts  sal  ammoniac,  5  parts  felspar, 
1/^  parts  gelatine,  50  parts  starch,  and  100  parts  water;  mix,  and  apply  with  a 
brush.  (4)  Mix  5  parts  alum,  5  parts  ammonium  phosphate,  and  100  parts  water. 
(5)  Take  3  parts  borax,  2%  parts  Epsom  salts,  20  parts  water.  (6)  Use  a  more  or 
less  concentrated  solution  of  sulphate  of  potassium  and  alum.  (7)  If  fabrics  are 
steeped  in  almost  any  saline  solution,  such  as  alum,  borax,  sal  ammoniac,  etc., 
they  will  not  take  fire  readily,  and  if  ignited  will  not  burst  into  flames.  A  simple 
plan  is  to  add  about  1  oz.  of  alum  to  the  last  water  used  to  rinse  a  dress,  or  set  of 
bed  furniture;  even  a  less  quantity  addecf  to  the  starch  used  to  stiffen  them  will 
answer,  and  may  prevent  a  painful  accident. 

Waterproofing  Cloth. — (1)  Dissolve,  separately,  equal  parts  of  alum,  soap,  and 
isinglass,  in  sufficient  water  to  make  a  tolerably  strong  solution.  Then  mix  all 
together,  and  apply  the  mixture  on  the  wrong  side,  thoroughly  saturating  the  cloth; 
then  dry  it.  Then  brush  the  cloth  thoroughly,  first  with  a  dry  brush,  and  afterwards 
lightly  with  a  brush  dipped  in  a  little  water.  (2)  For  woolen  cloth,  make  2  sepa- 
rate solutions;  first,  dissolve  1  lb.  sugar  of  lead  in  1  gallon  of  water;  second,  dis- 
solve 1  lb.  alum  in  1  gallon  water.  Dip  the  cloth  to  be  waterproofed  first  in  the 
solution  of  lead,  and,  when  nearly  dry,  dip  it  in  the  solution  of  alum;  then  dry  it 
in  the  air  or  before  the  fire.  This  process  is  very  effectual,  and  may  be  used  for 
coats  and  other  garments  even  after  made  up.  (3)  For  linen,  canvas  or  other 
cloth,  brush  the  cloth  with  a  solution  of  isinglass,  and,  when  dry,  with  a  solution 
of  nutgalls;  the  last  solution  changes  the  gelatinous  mass  of  isinglass  into  a  sort 
of  leather.  (4)  Spread  the  cloth  wrong  side  up  on  any  smooth  surface,  rub  it 
with  a  piece  of  pure  beeswax  till  it  presents  a  slight  but  even  white  or  grayish 
appearance,  pass  over  it  a  hot  iron,  brush  it  while  warm  and  the  process  is  com- 
plete. (5)  Take  3  quarts  pale  linseed  oil,  2  oz.  sugar  of  lead,  and  8  oz.  white 
resin;  grind  the  sugar  of  lead  with  a  little  of  the  resin  and  add  it  to  the  remainder, 
which  should  be  incorporated  with  the  oil  by  means  of  gentle  heat.  Apply  it  to 
calico  or  similar  material  with  a  brush.  It  makes  calico  both  waterproof  and 
transparent,  so  that  it  may  be  used  to  cover  cucumber  frames,  etc.,  instead  of 
glass.  (6)  An  India  rubber  waterproofing.  Put  4  parts  of  spermaceti  and  1 
part  India  rubber  into  an  earthen  jar  and  melt  them  over  a  slow  fire,  but  as  it 
takes  the  India  rubber  some  hours  to  melt  it  should  be  cut  into  very  fine  pieces; 
when  melted,  add  10  parts  tallow  and  5  parts  copal  varnish,  mixing  all  well;  ap- 
ply with  a  stiff  brush.  This  may  be  used  to  waterproof  calico,  alpaca,  or  any 
other  light  material,  or  applied  to  leather  gaiters,  boots,  shoes,  etc.  (7)  Cloth 
coated  with  linseed  oil,  to  which  a  little  wax  and  litharge  have  been  added,  will 
be  waterproof. 

To  Prepare  Oiled  Silk. — Melt  and  mix  well  together,  1  part  beeswax,  3  parts 
ground  litharge,  15  parts  boiled  oil;  add  3  parts  of  some  coloring  matter  if  desired. 
Stretch  the  silk  out  tight  in  breadths,  and  apply  the  mixture  with  a  brush  till  it 
is  well  saturated;  when  dry,  the  silk  will  be  perfectly  waterproof. 

Velvet. — Make  up  articles  in  velvet  the  reverse  way  of  the  pile,  that  is  so  the 
pile  inclines  upwards;  this  will  prevent  their  looking  white. 

To  Restore  Crushed  Velvet. — Crushed  velvet  may  be  restored,  that  is,  the  pile 
may  be  raised  when  it  is  crushed  or  flattened,  by  well  steaming  the  wrong  side 
over  the  spout  of  a  boiling  tea-kettle;  or,  cover  a  hot  flat-iron  with  a  wet  cloth, 
and  hold  the  velvet,  nap  outside,  firmly  over  it,  thus  steaming  it;  then  gently 
comb  up  the  nap. 

Cuts  or  faults  in  velvet  or  plush  are  concealed  by  very  careful  seaming  on 
the  wrong  side.  Insert  the  needle  half  the  thickness  of  the  material,  leaving 
no  stitches  visible  on  the  upper  surface,  and  the  sewing  is  drawn  till  the  edges 
just  meet,  and  no  more.  Be  careful  to  work  in  all  stray  filaments,  so  that  no 
fluffiness  disturbes  the  smoothness  of  the  pile. 

Faded  Plush  or  Aniline  Dyed  Articles. — When,  from  exposure  to  light,  plush 
goods,  or  any  articles  dyed  with  aniline  colors,  become  faded,  if  they  are  sponged 
over  with  chloroform  their  color  will  be  fully  restored.  Use  commercial  chloro- 
form, which  is  cheaper  than  the  purified. 

Marks  on  Plush. — These  may  be  removed  by  holding  the  wrong  side  over 
steam,  and  combing  up  the  pile. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  495 

Dress  Mending. — Instead  of  patching  a  round  hole  in  a  silk  or  woolen  dress 
carefully  smooth  the  frayed  parts  about  the  tear,  spread  thin  mucilage  or  the 
gum  tragacanth  paste  given  among  our  pastes,  on  the  under  side,  lay  on  a  piece 
of  the  same  cloth,  place  on  a  heavy  weight  and  let  it  dry.  The  patch  can  hardly 
be  noticed. 

Gloves. — Care  of  Gloves. — When  taken  off  they  should  be  smoothed  out 
lengthwise  and  laid  away  flat.  Keep  them  dry,  and  away  from  the  light  and  air. 
Gloves  rolled  together  after  being  taken  off  will  soon  look  shabby.  If  gloves  do 
not  go  on  readily,  breathe  in  them,  or  warm  them  gently  before  the  fire,  or  lay 
them  for  3  or  4  minutes  in  a  damp  (not  wet)  towel.  Do  not  attempt  to  put  on 
the  thumb  until  the  fingers  are  in,  working  them  quite  to  the  end. 

To  Clean  Kid  Gloves. — (1)  White  and  light  colored  kid  gloves  may  be 
cleaned  by  putting  them  on,  and,  filling  a  bowl  with  cornmeal,  dip  in  the  hands 
and  rub  them  thoroughly  with  the  meal,  as  though  washing  the  hands;  or  dip  a 
piece  of  flannel  in  the  meal  and  thoroughly  rub  it  on  the  gloves.  It  cleans  them 
nicely.  Undressed  kid  may  be  best  cleaned  in  the  same  way.  (2)  Dip  a  piece  of 
flannel  in  milk,  and  then  rub  it  on  good  glycerine  or  yellow  soap,  and,  beginning 
at  the  wrists,  rub  towards  the  tips  of  the  fingers;  first,  however,  lay  the  gloves 
out  smoothly  on  a  clean  cloth.  Leave  till  dry,  then  pull  gently  in  all  direc- 
tions till  soft.  If  the  gloves  have  been  made  too  wet,  they  must  be  fitted  on  the 
hands  again  when  half  dry.  (3)  Put  the  gloves  on,  and  wash  the  hands  in  gaso- 
line or  benzine.  This  cleans  kid  well,  especially  white,  but  fades  some  colors. 
The  unpleasant  odor  soon  evaporates.  (4)  Rubbing  with  stale  bread  crumbs 
cleans  gloves  sufficiently  sometimes. 

To  Renovate  Black  Kid. — Mix  a  little  good  black  ink  with  a  little  sweet  or 
salad  oil;  apply  it  with  a  sponge  or  flannel,  and  dry  in  the  sun. 

Dying  Gloves. — Light  colored  kid  gloves  may  be  dyed  black  as  follows:  Take 
a  bowl,  put  in  %  cup  of  logwood  chips,  cover  them  with  alcohol,  and  let  stand  24 
or  48  hours.  Then  put  on  the  gloves,  take  a  piece  of  flannel  and  dip  it  in  the 
solution,  and  rub  it  on  the  gloves  over  every  part;  let  it  dry,  and  repeat  the  opera- 
tion. To  dye  yellow.  A  simple  decoction  of  onion  peel  is  said  to  produce  upon 
glove  leather  an  orange  yellow  superior  to  any  other.  Aniline  colors  can  be  em- 
ployed without  any  previous  preparation  of  the  leather.  The  bluish  tint  so 
much  liked  in  black  gloves,  is  obtained  by  washing  the  finished  article  with  a 
solution  of  sal  ammoniac.  White  gloves  may  be  given  a  pretty  shade,  by  dipping 
them  in  strong  coffee. 

Buckskin  Gloves. — To  clean:  (1)  Wash  3  times  in  clean  (not  hot)  soap  lather. 
Put  in  a  little  blue,  wring  them  well,  and  put  them  in  as  good  form  as  you  can; 
when  nearly  dry,  but  sufficiently  damp  to  form  to  the  hand,  put  them  on  (if  dif- 
ficult to  get  them  on  dampen  a  little);  then  press  or  push  them  off,  dry,  away 
from  the  fire,  and  they  will  be  as  good  as  new.  (2)  Take  34  lb.  Paris  white,  3^  lb. 
scraped  pipeclay,  and  3  oz.  best  isinglass;  boil  all  together,  stirring  while  boil- 
ing. Lay  this  compound  on  thick;  when  dry,  beat  it  out  by  clapping  the  hands 
well  together,  brushing,  etc.  Then  carefully  iron  the  gloves  with  a  hot  smooth- 
ing iron. 

Washleather  Gloves.— Take  out  grease  spots  by  rubbing  with  magnesia  or 
cream  of  tartar.  T©  wash  (1)  make  a  strong  lather  with  curd  soap  and  warm 
water;  lay  the  glove  flat  on  a  board  or  other  unyielding  surface;  dip  a  piece  of 
flannel  in  the  soap  lather,  and  rub  the  glove  thoroughly,  in  every  part,  till  all  the 
dirt  is  out;  then  rinse,  first  in  warm  water  and  then  in  cold.  Dry  in  the  sun  or 
before  a  moderate  fire.  (2)  Put  the  gloves  on  the  hands  and  wash  them  with  soap 
and-lukewarm  water.  When  quite  clean,  pull  them  off  carefully,  and  lay  them 
in  the  sun  to  dry;  put  them  on  before  they  are  quite  dry,  and  stretch  them  to 
keep  them  from  getting  hard. 

Suede,  Buckskin  or  Chamois  Gloves  are  sometimes  cleaned  by  rubbing  them 
with  stale  bread  crumbs.  Or  mix  powdered  alum  and  fuller's  earth,  dip  a  stiff 
brush  in  the  mixture  and  rub  the  gloves  with  it. 

Cloth  Gloves.-  To  clean  these,  pour  in  a  bowl  a  little  of  the  cleaning  com- 
pound No.  3,  given  elsewhere,  and  wash  the  gloves  in  it;  when  nearly  cleaned 
rinse  them  in  a  clean  lot  of  the  same  solution;  if  very  dirty  rinse  again;  then  rub 
with  a  soft  flannel  cloth  to  smooth  out  the  wrinkles,  and  dry  them. 

Gloves  of  all  kinds  are  better  and  more  shapely  if  put  on  wooden  hands  or 
glove  trees  to  dry,  when  wet  by  washing  them. 


*. 


496  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE, 

Bonnets  and  Hats. — To  Clean  Straw  Bonnets. — They  may  be  washed  with 
soap  and  water,  then  rinsed  in  clean  water,  and  dried  in  the  air.  Afterwards 
wash  them  over  with  white  of  egg,  well  beaten.  The  wires  must  be  removed  be^ 
fore  washing.  (2)  Wash  whitestraw  hats  with  citric  acid  solution,  as  directed 
for  men's  white  straw  hats  (which  see).  (3)  Black  hats  can  be  washed  with  clear 
strong  coffee;  then  apply  3  coats  of  good  liquid  shoe  polish  or  blacking,  letting 
each  coat  dry  before  applying  the  next.    The  hat  will  look  like  new. 

To  Dye  Straw  Bonnets. — For  black:  boil  2  lbs.  logwood  and  %  lb.  fustic 
together  for  4  hours;  remove  all  wires,  and  boil  the  bonnets  in  this  first;  then 
add  34  lb.  green  copperas,  and  reboil  the  articles  1  hour  longer;  expose  them  to 
the  air  for  10  minutes,  then  place  them  in  the  liquid  again  for  1  hour;  then  dry 
and  brush.  This  will  suffice  for  12  bonnets.  For  brown:  take  %  lb.  fustic 
chips,  34  lb-  of  peachwood,  %  oz  of  madder;,  boil  these  for  4  hours;  add  %  lb.  of 
green  copperas;  boil  for  2  hours;  dry  and  brush.  For  gray:  boil  %  oz.  of  cud- 
bear for  3  hours;  add  2  oz.  blue  paste;  mix  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  the 
bonnets;  let  them  remain  in  soak  10  clear  days;  rinse  and  dry,  and  they  are 
ready  for  blocking.  This  is  sufficient  for  6  bonnets.  For  red:  prepare  a  potash 
lye,  and  boil  in  it  some  ground  Brazilwood,  making  it  strong  or  weak  to  suit; 
then  put  in  the  straw  goods,  and  boil  them. 

Size  for  Colored  Straw  Bonnets. — Break  up  1  lb.  best  glue,  put  into  a  vessel 
with  4  quarts  cold  water,  and  let  soak  for  not  less  than  12  hours.  Then  pour  it, 
water  and  all,  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  put  it  over  the  fire  to  dissolve;  keep  it  well 
stirred,  and  be  careful  not  to  let  it  boil.  When  it  is  all  Well  melted  strain  it  into 
an  earthenware  pan,  and  use  it  while  scalding  hot.  The  bonnets  as  they  are 
taken  out  of  this  size  must  be  sponged  as  dry  as  possible,  the  shape  regulated, 
and  then  hung  up  to  dry.    This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  12  bonnets. 

Parchment  Size  for  Straw  Bonnets,  Silks,  Etc.—  Well  wash  1  lb.  of  parchment 
shavings  or  cuttings,  in  2  or  more  lots  of  cold  water;  then  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan, or  other  vessel,  with  4  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  let  them  simmer  gently  un- 
til the  quantity  is  reduced  to  2  quarts.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  and  it  is 
ready  for  use.  One  teacup  of  this  is  sufficient  to  stiffen  1  bonnet,  or  to  mix  with 
1  quart  of  water  for  finishiDg  silks. 

To  Bleach  Chip  and  Straw  Goods. — First  clean,  by  washing  in  warm  soap 
liquor;  brush  them  well,  both  inside  and  out,  then  rinse  them  well  in  cold  water, 
and  they  are  ready  for  bleaching.  To  Bleach.— (1)  Put  a  small  quantity  of  ox- 
alic acid  into  a  clean  pan,  and  pour  on  it  sufficient  scalding  water  to  cover  the 
bonnet  or  hat.  Put  the  article  into  this  liquor,  and  let  it  remain  in  it  for  about 
5  minutes;  keep  it  covered  by  holding  it  down  with  a  clean  stick.  Dry  in  the 
sun  or  before  a  clear  fire.  (2)  Having  first  dried  the  bonnet  or  hat  put  it,  together 
with  a  saucer  of  burning  sulphur,  into  a  box  with  a  tight  closing  lid.  Cover  it 
over  to  keep  in  the  fumes,  and  let  it  remain  a  few  hours.  The  disadvantage  of 
bleaching  with  sulphur  is  that  articles  so  bleached  soon  become  yellow;  when 
bleached  by  oxalic  acid  they  do  not.  To  Finish  or  Stiffen. — After  cleaning  an  I 
bleaching,  white  bonnets  should  be  stiffened  with  parchment  size.  Black  or  col- 
ored bonnets  are  stiffened  with  a  size  made  from  the  best  glue. 

Straw  or  chip  plaits,  or  Leghorn  hats  and  bonnets  may  also  be  cleaned 
and  bleached,  and  finished  as  above. 

Black  Varnish  for  Chip  and  Straw  Goods. — A  good  black  varnish  is  easily 
prepared  for  chip  and  straw  goods  which  gives  them  a  fine  gloss.  Crush  2  oz. 
good  black  sealing-wax,  and  put  it  in  a  bottle;  add  8  oz.  95°  alcohol.  Cork  and 
set  in  a  warm  place,  shaking  it  from  time  to  time  until  the  sealing-wax  is  cut. 
When  it  is  applied  have  both  the  article  and  varnish  warm. 

Felt  Hats. — Wash  them  with  a  hot  solution  of  soda,  or  sesquicarbonate  of 
ammonia.  Then,  if  white,  cover  the  hat  with  a  paste  made  of  pipeclay  and  water, 
tempered  with  white  precipitated  chalk.  When  dry,  rub  and  brush  off.  See 
also  the  cleaning  compound  No.  3,  given  elsewhere,  for  a  good  article  to  use. 
Grease  and  paint  stains  can  be  removed  with  turpentine;  if  the  turpentine  leaves 
a  mark,  rub  with  alcohol  or  benzine. 

To  Make  Felt  Hats  Waterproof.— Remove  the  lining,  and  paint  the  inside  of 
the  hat  with  Canada  balsam,  made  hot.  Hats  made  waterproof  and  not  venti- 
lated Will  bring  on  premature  baldness,  so  punch  a  few  small  holes  in  the  side. 

Men's  White  Straiv  Hats. — These  may  be  readily  cleaned  by  (1)  using  a  nail 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  AM 

brush  and  brushing  them  over  quickly  with  soap  and  water;  then  press  them 
into  shape  and  they  will  be  stiff  when  dry.  (2)  Sponge  them  with  a  solution  of  1 
part  citric  acid  to  20  parts  water  (some  people  rub  them  with  a  lemon  cut  in  two); 
then  rinse  thoroughly  with  clean  water  and  dry  in  the  sun,  and  they  will  be  beau- 
tifully bleached.    Stiffen,  if  needed,  with  gum  water. 

Black  straw  hats  in  being  cleaned  should  be  dusted  and  brushed;  they  may 
then  be  rubbed  all  over  with  a  mixture  of  good  black  ink  and  liquid  glue. 

To  Renovate  Hat  Bands. — Take  8  oz  alcohol  and  dissolve  in  it  2  oz.  aqua 
ammonia,  2  oz.  sulphuric  ether,  and  3  oz.  white  castile  soap;  rub  this  on  briskly 
with  a  tooth  brush  or  cloth,  and  then  rinse  off  with  soft  water,  and  dry. 

A  Wet  Silk  Hat. — Shake  off  the  surplus  water,  and,  with  an  old  soft  silk 
handkerchief,  rub  it  gently  the  way  of  the  nap;  then  hang  it  up  in  a  warm  room, 
away  from  the  fire,  to  dry.  When  dry,  brush  it  with  a  soft  brush,  and  with  a 
moderately  hot  flat-iron  smooth  it  around  the  way  of  the  nap. 

Bulges  or  indentations  in  a  silk  hat  may  be  removed  by  warming  it  (by  steam 
is  preferable)  and  pressing  them  out  with  a  hot  iron;  attempts  to  restore  the 
shape  by  other  means  will  probably  result  in  cracking  the  hat. 

Label  children's  hats  plainly  with  the  name  and  place  of  residence  of  the 
wearer;  then  if  the  child  is  lost  it  can  be  readily  returned  to  its  home. 

Umbrellas. — Wet  umbrellas  should  be  placed  handle  downward  to  dry.  In 
that  way  they  dry  uniformly.  If  stood  handle  upwards  the  water  will  gather  at 
the  lowest  point  and  the  lining  will  hold  the  moisture  and  cause  the  silk  to 
rot.  Do  not  leave  them  open  to  dry;  the  tense  condition  stiffens  the  silk  and  it 
cracks  sooner.  If  tightly  rolled  and  put  in  umbrella  cases,  the  friction  of  the 
case  wears  many  tiny  holes.  Many  an  umbrella  is  ruined  by  being  wedged  into  a 
crowded  umbrella  stand.  Keep  your  umbrella  in  your  own  room,  out  of  the  case, 
and  stood  handle  down;  thus  you  will  get  the  most  possible  wear  out  of  it.  To 
clean  ivory  and  metal  handles  see  our  articles  on  "Ivory  '  and  "Metals." 

Parasols. — To  renovate  them,  sponge  with  warm  soap  and  water,  and  iron 
them,  while  damp,  on  the  inside,  with  a  smoothing  iron.  If  the  silk  is  very  dirty 
it  will  be  better  to  sponge  it  with  gin,  or  spirits  of  wine;  in  this  case,  iron  on  the 
right  side,  first  spreading  on  thin  paper  to  prevent  glazing. 

Fur. — To  Clean. — (1)  Soap  and  water  will  spoil  fur.  Get  some  clean  common 
whiting  (powdered,  and  plenty  of  it)  and  put  it  in  a  damp  place  for  a  day  or  so, 
but  on  no  account  let  it  get  wet;  rub  it  into  the  fur  with  the  hand,  and  don't  be 
afraid  to  rub  it;  the-n  leave  it  till  next  day,  and  give  it  another  good  rubbing; 
then  shake  out  all  the  whiting  you  can,  and  give  it  a  good  brushing  with  a 
clothes  brush.  It  will  now  be  quite  clean,  except  the  skin  at  the  bottom  of  the 
fur.  To  remove  the  dirt  from  thence,  get  the  fur  over  the  back  of  a  chair,  and 
brush  very  briskly  with  the  point  of  the  clothes  brush,  giving  a  puff  of  wind  with 
every  stroke  of  the  brush.  With  a  little  patience  every  trace  of  whiting,  grease 
and  dirt  can  be  removed.  Lastly,  pour  a  little  spirits  of  wine  on  a  plate,  dip  the 
point  of  the  clothes  brush  in  this,  and  pass  it  lightly  over  the  fur,  moving 
the  brush  the  way  the  fur  lies.  (2)  Take  equal  parts  of  flour  and  pow- 
dered salt  (which  should  be  well  heated  in  an  oven)  and  thoroughly  rub  the 
fur.  It  should  afterwards  be  well  shaken,  to  free  it  from  the  flour  and  salt. 
(3)  Lay  the  fur  on  a  table,  and  rub  it  well  with  bran,  made  moist  with  warm 
water.  Rub  until  quite  dry,  and  afterwards  with  dry  bran.  The  moist  bran 
should  be  put  on  with  flannel,  and  the  dry  with  a  piece  of  book  muslin.  (4) 
Rub  light-colored  furs  in  addition,  with  magnesia  after  the  bran  process.  Dry 
flour  may  be  used  instead  of  the  wet  bran.  Rub  the  wrong  way  of  the  fur  to 
clean;  then  smooth  the  right  way. 

Ermine  may  be  renewed  and  cleaned  by  rubbing  it  from  time  to  time  as  it 
becomes  soiled,  with  cornmeal.  It  is  also  cleaned  sometimes  by  rubbing  in  dry 
powdered  starch. 

Sealskins. — If  a  sealskin  has  been  unfortunately  wet,  do  not  attempt  to  rub 
off  the  moisture  with  the  hand  nor  with  soft  cloths  or  anything  else,  and  do  not 
put  it  in  a  warm  room  to  dry — that  will  flatten  it.  Merely  spread  it  out  in  a 
cold  room  until  it  is  dry,  before  attempting  anything  else.  Beat  the  fur  thor- 
oughly, and  be  sure  it  is  perfectly  clean  before  it  is  put  away  for  the  summer. 
Camphor  should  not  be  placed  near  sealskin,  as  it  causes  grey  streaks  to  appear 
in  it. 


498  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

In  putting  any  furs  away  for  the  summer  they  should  be  perfectly  clean- 
that  is  of  the  first  importance.  Brush  them,  shake  them,  beat  the  firmer  sorts 
with  a  cane,  air  them,  and  wrap  them  first  in  linen  bags,  and  afterwards  in 
brown  paper  bags,  pasting  up  all  openings  carefully.  Newspaper  is  not  strong 
enough  for  the  outside  wrapper,  but  may  be  used  inside.  Put  with  them 
either  a  little  camphor,  cedarwood  or  cloves,  or  best  of  all,  dust  them  over  freely 
with  good  fresh  insect  powder.  (Never  put  camphor  near  sealskin.)  Chinchilla 
is  too  perishable  to  be  shaken.  Furs  may  be  put  in  paper  boxes,  but  the  cracks 
should  be  tightly  pasted  over  with  paper.  Any  article  of  fur  previously  attacked 
by  moths,  should  be  carefully  examined  in  July,  to  see  that  none  are  present, 
notwithstanding  the  other  precautions. 

To  Restore  Crushed  Fur. — Furs,  after  having  been  put  away  for  the  summer, 
sometimes  look  rough  and  crushed.  To  correct  this,  take  a  hair  brush,  wet  it, 
and  brush  the  fur  the  wrong  way;  then  dry  for  about  30  minutes,  after  which 
beat  it  well  with  a  light  cane,  on  the  right  side;  then  use  a  coarse  comb  and 
carefully  comb  down  the  fur  the  right  way. 

To  Dye  Fur. — For  blue,  take  1  part  blue  vitriol,  7  parts  logwood,  22  parts 
water;  mix  and  boil.  For  brown,  use  logwood  (the  tincture  only).  For  purple, 
use  6  parts  alum,  11  parts  logwood,  29  parts  water.  For  red,  the  ingredients  are, 
1  oz.  cochineal,  1  lb.  ground  Brazilwood,  and  3  quarts  water;  the  mode  is  to  first 
put  the  Brazilwood  in  the  water  and  boil  an  hour;  after  which  strain,  and  put 
in  the  cochineal,  and  boil  again  %  hour. 

To  Clean  the  Fur  on  Stuffed  Animals. — First,  give  the  animal  a  good  brush- 
ing with  a  stiff  clothes  brush.  After  this,  warm  a  quantity  of  new  bran  in  a 
pan,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn,  to  prevent  which  keep  stirring  it.  When 
warm,  rub  it  well  into  the  fur  with  your  hand.  Repeat  this  a  few  times,  then 
rid  the  fur  of  the  bran,  and  brush  it  sharply  until  free  from  dust. 


TO  REMOVE  SPOTS  AND  STAINS- 

One  of  the  common  perplexities  of  the  housekeeper  is  to  remove  spots  and 
stains  from  different  articles.  The  great  difficulty  often  is  to  remove  the  stain 
without  injuring  the  delicate  tints  of  the  fabric.  Stains  may  be  divided  into  3 
classes.  (1)  Simple  stains,  produced  by  1  substance,  and  which  may  be  removed 
by  1  agent.  (2)  Mixed  stains,  produced  by  2  or  more  substances  conjointly,  and 
requiring  the  application  of  several  cleaning  agents.  (3)  Stains  produced  by 
substances  which  alter  or  destroy  the  color.  Following  we  give  a  synopsis 
of  the  best  plans  in  use  for  removing  stains;  arranged  for  convenient  reference. 

In  rubbing  fabrics  to  remove  stains  be  careful  to  always  rub  the  way  of  the 
stuff,  and  not  indifferently  backwards  and  forwards. 

If  colors  have  been  changed  by  vegetable  or  dilute  mineral  acids,  they  can 
usually  be  restored  with  dilute  ammonia.  If  that  is  not  sufficient  the  spot  must 
be  wet  with  a  mordant  and  the  requisite  dye  painted  in,  in  which  case  the  spot 
must  be  continuously  rubbed  with  a  pledgit  of  wool,  so  as  to  spread  it  equally 
and  leave  no  sharp  line  of  demarkation. 

See  what  we  say  about  applying  benzine,  etc.under  "Grease"  (4th  method). 

Before  attempting  to  remove  a  stain  from  colored  goods,  experiment  on  some 
unseen  part  and  see  if  the  article  you  expect  to  use  affects  its  color. 

Injured  Colors. — Colors  (except  some  shades  of  red)  which  have  been  destroyed 
by  acids,  can  usually  be  restored  by  first  applying  ammonia  to  neutralize  the 
acid,  and  then  apply  chloroform  which  will  restore  the  color.  Colors  injured  by 
alkalies,  should  be  treated  first  with  dilute  acid  to  neutralize  the  alkali,  and  then 
with  chloroform. 

Any  color  damaged  by  ammonia,  used  to  neutralize  acids,  can  be  restored  by 
applying  chloroform. 

Articles  dyed  with  aniline  colors,  when  faded  by  exposure  to  light,  may  be 
restored  by  sponging  them  over  with  chloroform.  Commercial  chloroform  which 
is  cheaper  than  the  purified,  can  be  used. 

We  explain  below  the  properties  of  some  of  the  more  common  and  useful 
cleaning  agents. 

Alcohol.— This  is  always  obtained  from  the  fermentation  of  sugar,  starch,  or  other 


ALL  ABOtTT  THE  HOtf&fi.  49$ 

Saccharine  matter.    It  readily  dissolves  fats  (although  less  readily  than  benzine  or  ether) 
resins,  iodine,  salts,  alkaloids,  etc.,  making  it  a  useful  cleaning  agent. 

Ammonia.— This  is  a  transparent,  pungent  gas,  formed  of  nitrogen  and  hydrogen. 
Water  will  take  up  750  times  its  bulk  of  this  gas,  forming  aqua  ammonia  or  hartshorn.  It 
has  so  many  domestic  uses  that  a  bottle  should  be  kept  in  every  family.  It  is  especially 
valuable  for  removing  grease  spots  from  clothing,  etc.  It  is  one  of  the  best  antidotes  for 
mineral  poisons.  When  the  stronger  kinds  are  used  for  cleaning,  etc.,  care  should  be  taken 
not  to  breathe  it  too  freely,  lest  it  injure  the  delicate  lining  of  the  nose  and  lungs.  It  is  an 
alkali,  and  will  neutralize  acid  stains.  Before  applying  it  to  any  colored  article,  try  it 
first  on  some  unseen  part  to  see  if  it  affects  the  color. 

Benzine.— This  is  also  called  benzole  and  phene.  It  is  known  in  chemistry  as  hydride  of 
phenyl.  It  is  a  hydrocarbon,  obtained  from  coal-oil.  It  is  sold  under  the  name  of  "benzine 
collets"  for  3  or  4  times  its  real  value.  It  has  many  domestic  uses,  being  an  excellent  solvent 
for  India  rubber,  wax,  camphor,  fats  and  oils.  It  is  extremely  volatile,  and  should  on  no 
account  be  used  by  lamplight,  or  near  a  fire.  Keep  it  tightly  corked  at  all  times.  As  a  clean- 
ing agent  for  grease  spots,  etc.,  it  hardly  has  an  equal ;  but  it  does  not  remove  sweat  stains, 
nor  stains  from  alkali,  acids,  sugar,  milk,  etc.    It  does  not  injure  the  most  delicate  fabric. 

Chloride  of  Lime.— This  is  extensively  used  for  bleaching  textile  fabrics,  and  for 
removing  fruit  and  red  wine  stains.  Its  action  on  the  fabric  may  be  checked  by  immersing 
it  in  aqua  ammonia  or  in  a  solution  of  hyposulphite  of  sodium. 

Chloroform.— This  is  a  colorless  liquid  which  evaporates  ^readily,  but  it  is  not  inflam- 
mable like  ether  and  benzine.  It  readily  dissolves  fats,  fatty  oils,  resin,  wax,  India  rubber, 
etc.,  making  it  a  valuable  cleaning  agent,  but  great  care  should  be  taken  not  to  inhale  its 
fumes  on  account  of  their  well-known  stupifying  effect. 

Citric  Acid.— This  will  remove  blue  or  crimson  spots  on  scarlet,  and  it  revives  certain 
colors,  like  yellows  and  greens;  it  also  neutralizes  alkalies.  Acetic  or  tartaric  acids  are 
cheaper,  and  can  always  be  used  in  its  place  for  all  cleaning  purposes,  which  our  readers 
will  do  well  to  remember. 

Ether.— This  is  prepared  from  a  mixture  of  alcohol  and  sulphuric  acid  or  vitriol.  It  is 
colorless  and  very  yolatile,  and  its  vapor  mixed  with  a  large  amount  of  air  is  uery  explosive 
so  tha.t  it  should  never  be  used  near  a  light  or  flame.  It  readily  dissolves  fats,  resins,  wax, 
balsams  and  bitumen,  making  it  a  useful  cleaning  agent.  Great  pains  should  be  taken  not 
to  inhale  its  fumes. 

Glycerine. — This  is  a  colorless,  viscid  fluid,  of  a  sweetish  taste.  It  is  soluble  in  water 
or  alcohol,  but  not  in  ether,  benzine  or  chloroform.  It  is  a  solvent  for  alkalies,  alkaloids, 
dye-stuffs,  etc. 

Hydrochloric  Acid.— This  is  also  called  muriatic  acid  and  spirit  of  salt.  It  is  composed 
simply  of  chlorine  and  hydrogen.  It  is  a  powerful  acid,  but  is  one  of  the  most  useful  acids 
known,  enormous  quantities  being  used  in  the  arts.  It  should  be  kept  in  a  bottle  with  a 
ground  glass  stopper,  plainly  labeled,  kept  from  children,  and  used  with  care,  but  it  has 
many  domestic  uses,  such  as  removing  stains  from  furniture,  glass  and  other  ware,  cloth- 
ing, etc.    It  is  alluded  to  many  times  in  our  pages. 

Oxalic  Acid.— This  is  one  of  the  vegetable  acids.  It  much  resembles  Epsom  salts,  and 
is  sometimes  mistaken  for  it.  It  is  an  active  poison,  and  should  be  kept  in  a  glass  bottle, 
clearly  labeled  and  carefully  guarded.  It  is  used  to  remove  spots  of  ink  and  iron,  the 
stains  of  urine,  fruit,  astringent  juices,  etc.  It  is  best  used  on  light  goods,  as  it  attacks 
light  and  fugitive  colors.  It  should  be  diluted  in  cold  or  lukewarm  water,  as  it  attacks  the 
texture  of  the  cloth  if  undiluted. 

Ox-gall.— It  is  best  to  purify  this  before  using  it.  Mix  it  with  an  equal  amount  (by 
weight)  of  alcohol ;  let  stand  a  few  days,  shaking  it  occasionally,  then  fil  ter,  and  evaporate 
.  it  down  to  the  consistency  of  syrup.  It  readily  dissolves  fats,  and  cleans  woolens  better 
than  soap.  It  should  be  used  cautiously,  as  it  gives  light  and  delicate  colors  a  green  or 
greenish  yellow  tint  if  used  too  strong.  For  cleaning  silk,  etc.,  it  is  often  mixed  with  yolk 
of  egg,  fuller's  earth,  honey,  turpentine,  alcohol,  etc. 

Salts  of  Sorrel  (often  improperly  called  salts  of  lemo?i).— This  is  really  binoxalate  of 
potassium,  and  is  formed  by  combining  oxalic  acid  and  potassium  carbonate.  It  is  used  to 
remove  ink  stains. 

Spirits  of  wine  is  the  same  as  alcohol,  but  it  contains  more  water. 

Turpentine.— This  is  distilled  from  the  sap  or  juice  of  the  pine  or  fir  tree .  It  readily  dis- 
solves fats  and  resins,  but  is  not  equal  to  benzine  for  general  cleaning.  The  idea  that  it  in- 
creases the  luster  and  softness  of  silk  fabrics  is  a  mistake. 

Yolk  of  Egg.— This  if  kept  too  long  loses  its  value  as  a  cleaning  agent.  Its  cleansing 
properties  are  similar  to  those  of  ox-gall.  Sometimes  it  is  mixed  with  the  oil  of  turpentine 
for  use. 

Acid  Stains. — Most  acids  produce  red  stains  on  blacks,  blues  and  violets, 
made  from  vegetable  colors  (except  indigo).  The  best  treatment  for  all  acids  is 
to  at  once  apply  some  strong  alkali,  like  ammonia,  soda,  or  potash — (ammonia  is 
best).  Afterwards  wash  with  water.  Red  stains  can  thus  be  removed.  If  the 
acid  was  very  strong,  the  fabric  will  probably  be  destroyed,  as  well  as  stained. 
Then  there  is  no  remedy.  The  brown  stains  of  nitric  acid  are  nearly  hopeless. 
Repeated  moistening  with  a  very  strong  solution  of  potash  permanganate  (or  as 
a  weak  substitute  use  Condey's  fluid),  followed  by  rinsing  with  water,  is  the  best 
things  A  color  injured  by  an  acid,  which  is  not  restored  by  the  ammonia  (or 
other  alkali)  used,  can  frequently  be  restored  by  using  chloroform  afterwards. 

Alkaline  Stains.— (1)  For  white  goods  wash  merely.  For  colored  woolens,  cot- 
tons, silk  or  satin,  moisten  the  stain  first,  and  then  cautiously  apply  dilute  acetic 
acid  with  the  finger-end;  when  the  stain  disappears  wash  well  in  clean  water. 


S06  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE\ 

(2)  If  delicate  colors  are  injured  by  soapy  or  alkaline  matters,  renew  the  dye  by 
applying  colorless  vinegar  of  moderate  strength. 

Albumen. — Merely  wash  the  article  in  clear  water  to  remove  it. 

Alizarine  Ink. — On  linen,  use  a  solution  of  tartaric  acid;  the  older  the  stain 
the  stronger  the  solution  must  be.  On  cotton,  woolen,  or  silk,  use  dilute  tartaric 
acid,  if  the  colors  will  bear  it,  but  use  great  care  on  silk. 

Aniline  Stains. — For  aniline  inks  or  other  aniline  stains  (1)  wash  with  al- 
cohol containing  some  acetic  acid;  if,  however,  the  colors  of  the  fabric  will  not 
stand  acetic  acid,  use  alcohol  alone.  (2)  Try  a  solution  of  sodium  sulphite.  (3) 
Same  as  "Alizarine  Ink"  (which  see). 

Beer. — Wash  in  soapy,  and  then  in  clear,  water. 

Blood. — (1)  Merely  wash  with  clean  water.  (2)  Make  a  thick  paste  of  cold 
water  and  starch  and  apply  it  to  any  article  you  do  not  wish  to  wash,  and  place  in 
the  sun  for  2  hours;  brush  off,  and  if  any  trace  remains,  repeat. 

Coffee  and  Chocolate. — (1)  Apply  a  mixture  of  glycerine  and  yolk  of  egg;  then 
wash  out  with  warm  water,  and  while  still  damp  iron  on  the  reverse  side  with  a 
moderately  hot  iron.  (2)  Wash  them  in  very  hot  water,  soap  carefully,  and  then 
expose  to  sulphur  fumes.  (3)  On  woolen  goods,  mix  1  oz.  glycerine,  9  oz.  water, 
%  oz.  aqua  ammonia;  apply  repeatedly,  press  between  a  cloth,  and  rub  with  a 
clean  rag.  Steam  a  little  if  needed,  and  the  stain  will  be  gone.  (4)  Delicate 
colored  silks  are  more  difficult.  Mix  5  parts  of  glycerine,  5  parts  of  water,  and  % 
part  of  ammonia.  Apply  it,  to  test  it,  on  some  unnoticeable  place;  if,  after  dry- 
ing, it  affects  the  color,  leave  out  the  ammonia;  if  not  apply  to  the  stain  with  a 
brush,  leave  on  over  night,  and  then  rub  with  a  clean  cloth;  then  remove  the  dry 
substance  with  a  knife,  brush  over  with  clean  water,  and  press  between  cloths, 
and  dry.  Now,  if  needed,  rub  with  dry  bread.  Restore  the  finish  with  a  thin 
solution  of  gum  arabic. 

Dust. — Beating  and  brushing  merely,  will  remove  these  stains  from  white  and 
colored  cotton  goods.  For  old  dry  stains  on  colored  silk  and  woolen  goods,  ap- 
ply alcohol  mixed  with  yolk  of  egg,  let  dry,  and  scrape  off;  wipe  away  remain- 
ing traces  of  the  egg  with  a  linen  rag  dipped  in  warm  water. 

Fruit. — (1)  Most  spots  may  be  removed  without  leaving  a  stain  by  rinsing  in 
cold  water  containing  a  little  ammonia,  before  the  spot  has  dried.  (2)  For  col- 
ored cottons  or  woolens,  wash  with  tepid  soapsuds  or  ammonia.  Silks  the  same, 
with  gentle  rubbing.  For  linen  (table  cloths,  etc.)  or  white  cotton,  use  warm 
chlorine  water,  or  submit  to  the  fumes  of  burning  sulphur  (strike  a  match  and 
hold  it  so  that  its  sulphurous  vapors  will  be  diffused  over  the  stain — using  2  or 
more  if  necessary).  After  washing,  the  stain  will  vanish.  (3)  Spread  the 
stained  fabric  on  the  ground  in  the  open  air;  smear  the  spot  with  soap,  and 
Bprinkle  on  common  salt;  wet,  and  as  it  dries,  re-wet.  Wash  after  2  or  3  hours 
exposure,  and  the  stain  will  usually  be  gone.  (4)  Rub  the  spot  on  each  side 
with  hard  soap;  then  lay  on  a  thick  mixture  of  starch  and  cold  water,  and  rub  it 
well  into  the  spot;  afterwards  expose  to  the  sun  and  air;  after  3  or  4  days  repeat 
if  necessary.  (5)  Apply  salts  of  sorrel,  or  a  solution  of  soda  hypochlorite;  wash 
it  out  carefully  when  the  object  is  attained,  the  latter  particularly.  (6)  Wash 
fresh  stains  in  kerosene  as  you  would  in  water. 

For  sour  and  acid  fruits,  see  vinegar. 

Grass. — (1)  Rub  on  molasses  thoroughly;  then  wash  with  clean  water.  Re- 
peat if  necessary.  (2)  For  white  goods  wash  in  boiling  water.  For  colored 
goods,  whether  cotton,  woolen,  silk,  or  satin,  damp  with  a  solution  of  tin  chlo- 
ride; then  wash  out  at  once  with  an  abundance  of  clear  water.  (3)  For  light 
dresses  wet  the  stained  part  with  alcohol;  rub  well,  and  the  green  will  be 
removed. 

Gravy. — For  these  stains  on  delicate  silks,  first  use  soap  and  water  to  take 
out  the  salts  and  vegetable  matter;  then  turpentine  or  benzine  to  take  out  the 
grease  and  oil.  After  taking  out  a  stain  the  gloss  may  be  restored  to  silk  by 
sponging  it  with  gum  water,  made  by  either  gum  arabic  or  gum  tragacanth; 
stretch  out  the  cloth  smoothly  to  dry. 

Grease. — (1)  For  linen,  use  soapsuds  or  alkaline  lyes.  For  cotton,  use  luke- 
warm soapsuds.  For  woolen  use  soapsuds  or  ammonia.  For  silks,  use  benzine, 
ether,  ammonia,  chalk,  magnesia,  or  yolk  of  egg  with  water.  (2)  For  very  delicate 
fabrics,  ether  or  chloroform  will  take  out  grease,  but  the  more  lightly  and  briskly 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  501 

they  are  applied  the  less  danger  of  injury  to  the  goods;  as  both  quickly  evaporate 
it  is  needless  to  use  water  afterwards.  (3)  In  applying  chalk,  magnesia,  etc.,  to  a 
delicate  silk  do  not  wet  them;  apply  them  dry  to  trie  spot,  rub  them  lightly  with 
the  ringer,  and  after  a  time  brush  off.  On  other  goods  they  can  be  applied  as  a 
wet  paste,  and  rubbed  off  when  dry.  (4)  In  using  turpentine,  benzine,  etc.,  people 
generally  make  the  mistake  of  wetting  the  cloth  with  the  benzine,  etc.,  and  then 
rubbing  it  with  a  sponge  or  cloth.  This  dissolves  the  grease,  but  spreads  it  over 
a  greater  space  without  removing  it.  The  best  way  is  to  place  a  piece  of  blotting 
paper  underneath,  then  saturate  the  cloth  with  the  benzine  or  whatever  is  used, 
then  lay  another  piece  of  blotting  paper  on  top  and  press  it.  The  grease  will  be 
dissolved,  absorbed  by  the  paper,  and  entirely  removed.  A  very  old  or  thickly 
crusted  spot,  may  often  advantageously  be  softened  by  a  warm  flat-iron,  shielded 
by  a  thick  paper,  before  applying  the  turpentine  or  other  solvent.  (5)  Spread 
down  blotting  paper  or  chalk,  lay  on  the  goods,  cover  with  the  same,  and  apply  a 
hot  iron— not  hot  enough  to  scorch,  however. 

For  wagon  grease:  On  linen  use  soap  or  turpentine,  alternating  with  a  stream 
of  water.  On  cotton  or  woolens,  rub  with  lard  or  butter,  then  soap  well;  wait  a 
little  and  wash  alternately  with  turpentine  and  water.  On  silk,  same  as  for  cot- 
ton, but  use  benzine  instead  of  turpentine,  and  let  the  water  fall  on  it  from  some 
height. 

Machine  grease  or  oil:  This  generally  contains,  besides  the  grease,  oxide  of 
iron  worn  off  the  machinery,  etc.;  therefore,  first  remove  the  grease  with  benzine, 
turpentine,  or  ammonia;  then  treat  the  spot  with  oxalic  acid,  chloride  of  lime, 
or,  on  delicate  materials,  with  lemon  juice,  to  take  out  the  iron.  After  using 
these  agents  always  rinse  the  fabric  well  with  water. 

Gelatine  and  Glue. — (1)  Merely  wash  in  clean  water.  (2)  For  glue,  moisten  in 
steam,  immerse  in  hot  water,  and  rub. 

Green  Nut  Shells  or  Tannin. — On  linen,  use  warm  chlorine  water,  javelle 
water,  or  concentrated  solution  of  tartaric  acid.  On  cotton,  woolen,  or  silk, 
wash  several  times  alternately  with  water  and  chlorine  water,  diluted  more  or 
less  according  to  the  colors.    Use  care  on  silk. 

Gum. — Cut  it  with  alcohol  or  benzine;  or  treat  it  like  wax  (which  see). 

Ink. — For  black  or  nut-gall  ink:  (1)  Put  at  once  into  milk;  while  there,  rub 
gently  for  a  few  minutes.  If  allowed  to  dry,  ink  is  more  difficult  to  remove, 
but  can  be  with  a  little  effort,  but  use  hot  milk.  (2)  Soak  the  spot  with  ripe 
tomato,  rub  a  little,  and  then  wash.  The  stain  does  not  entirely  disappear  until 
after  the  washing.  (3)  Pour  on  kerosene  oil  and  rub  with  the  hand;  repeat  the 
operation  if  necessary.  (4)  Apply  pUre  melted  tallow  and  leave  1  or  2  days;  then 
wash  out  the  tallow  and  the  ink  will  come  with  it.  (5)  On  cotton,  woolen,  or 
silk,  saturate  with  turpentine,  leave  on  several  hours,  and  rub  between  the  hands; 
the  ink  will  crumble  away.  On  linen,  use  tartaric  acid.  (6)  Stretch  the  article 
over  a  warm  flat-iron,  and  squeeze  on  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  (7)  Moisten 
it  with  strong  salt  water,  and  then  sponge  with  lemon  juice.  (8)  Treat  old  ink- 
stains  first  with  proto-chloride  of  tin,  to  deoxidize  the  iron,  and  then  with  dilute 
oxalic  acid.  On  white  goods,  touch  the  part  stained  with  a  dilute  solution  of 
chloride  of  lime;  then  wash  thoroughly.  (9)  On  white  goods,  use  warm  oxalic 
acid  or  dilute  muriatic  acid  with  little  pieces  of  tin.  On  fast-dyed  woolens 
and  cottons  apply  citric  acid  carefully  and  repeatedly.  On  silks,  efforts  are  well 
nigh  useless.  (10)  Delicate  colors  will  be  injured  by  oxalic  acid  or  similar  arti- 
cles. For  these,  carefully  apply  a  weak  solution  of  pyrophosphate  of  soda,  using 
a  small  brush;  repeat  several  times,  and  the  ink  will  be  removed  without  injur- 
ing the  article.     Then  rinse  out  with  clear  water. 

Remove  any  ink  spot  before  washing  the  article,  or  the  soap  will  "set"  the 
stain  and  make  it  very  difficult  of  removal. 

Aniline  inks:     Treat  the  same  as  "Aniline  Stains"  (which  see). 

Indelible  or  Marking  Inks:  (1)  Mix  1  part  cyanide  of  potassium  in  4  parts 
water;  soak  the  spot  in  this  a  few  hours  and  it  will  fade  out.  (Highly  poisonous, 
so  handle  carefully.)  (2)  Steep  about  %  hour  in  chlorine  water;  then  wash  with 
ammonia;  then  with  clear  water.  (3)  First  soak  in  strong  salt  water;  then  wash 
with  ammonia.  (4)  With  a  small  brush  (camel's  hair)  apply  a  saturated  solution 
of  cyanuret  of  potassium;  then  wash  in  clean  cold  water.  (5)  To  a  solution  of 
strong  cyanide  of  potassium  add  a  few  grains  of  iodine.  Repeated  applications 
will  remove  any  stain  caused  by  nitrate  of  silver. 


502  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Prinker's  Ink:  Put  the  stained  parts  of  the  fabric  into  a  quantity  of  benzine; 
then  use  a  fine,  rather  stiff  brush,  with  fresh  benzine;  dry,  and  wash  clean  with 
warm  water  and  curd  soap.    The  benzine  will  not  injure  the  fabric  or  dye. 

Red  Ink:  (1)  Same  as  number  2  given  for  "Fruit"  (which  see).  (2)  Moisten  the 
spot  with  strong  alcohol  acidulated  with  nitric  acid. 

Iron-Mold  and  Rust. — (1)  Wet  the  spot  with  lemon  juice,  sprinkle  on  salt, 
and  hold  over  the  spout  of  a  boiling  tea-kettle,  or  expose  to  the  sun.  (2)  On 
linen  dip  the  spot  in  sour  buttermilk  and  dry  in  the  sun;  repeat 
several  times  if  necessary.  (3)  Wet  the  spot,  place  the  iinen  over  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  put  a  little  salts  of  lemon  on  the  spot  as  soon  as  the  stain  disappears, 
wash  it  in  clean  water.  (4)  "Wet  the  spot  and  lay  on  powdered  oxalic  acid 
or  cream  of  tartar;  rub  in  well,  and  then  wash  off  with  clean  water.  The  cream 
of  tartar  is  effective  only  on  stains  of  recent  date.  (5)  Same  as  number  9  given  for 
"Ink  Stains"  (which  see).  (6)  On  silk  or  satin  goods  moisten  with  strong  vinegar, 
leave  covered  for  some  time  with  beechwood  ashes,  and  finally  wash  in  strong 
soapy  water.  (7)  Wash  the  soiled  spot  in  kerosene  as  you  would  in  water;  apply 
before  using  soap,  or  it  is  useless. 

Lime  and  Lye. — Same  as  "Alkalies"  (which  see). 

Lubricating  Oils. — See  "Machine  Grease." 

Mildew. — (1)  Soak  the  spots  in  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  and  then  expose  to 
the  hot  sun;  then  rinse  in  clear  water.  (2)  Moisten  both  sides  with  lemon  juice, 
cover  with  a  paste  of  soft  soap  and  chalk,  and  sun  for  %  hour;  repeat  till  gone. 
(3)  Dilute  hartshorn  will  take  mildew  from  woolen  goods.  (4)  On  cotton  or  linen 
first  wet  with  soapsuds;  then  mix  equal  quantities  of  soft  soap  and  chalk,  and 
apply  it;  then  spread  it  out  on  a  tin  dish,  and  expose  all  day  to  the  hot  sun; 
repeat  if  necessary.  (5)  Dip  the  spot  into  a  weak  solution  of  chloride  of  lime,  and 
expose  to  the  sun  a  few  minutes;  repeat  till  it  disappears,  and  then  rinse  thor- 
oughly in  clean  water.  On  almost  any  fabric  chloride  of  lime  will  remove  mil- 
dew, but  as  this  turns  most  colors  it  must  be  used  with  care.  (6)  Mix  soft  soap 
with  powdered  starch,  add  half  as  much  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  apply  it 
to  both  sides  of  the  cloth  and  expose  to  the  hot  sun. 

Mercurial  Ointment. — This  produces  very  persistent  stains.  To  extract 
them,  wash  the  spot  with  a  hot  solution  of  soda  (1  part  soda  to  50  of  water),  and 
when  the  grease  is  removed  rub  over  with  a  rather  strong  solution  of  clear 
chloride  of  lime.  If  the  article  is  colored  or  delicate,  benzine  must  be  used 
instead  of  the  soda  solution.    Apply  to  both  sides  of  the  material. 

Milk. — For  white  goods,  wash  thoroughly  in  soapy  or  lye  water.  For  colored 
cottons  or  woolens,  use  benzine  or  turpentine;  wash  afterwards  in  soapy  water 
if  needed.  For  silks  or  satins,  use  the  purest  benzine.  See  number  4  for 
"Grease." 

Molasses. — Same  as  "Sugar"  (which  see). 

Mud. — (1)  In  many  cases  the  best  treatment  is  to  let  the  mud  dry  without 
brushing;  when  fully  dry  brush  off.  (2)  For  mud  stains,  first  remove  the  vege- 
table matter  with  soap  and  water;  then  use  cream  of  tartar  to  remove  the  iron 
often  present  in  mud;  then  wash  with  clean  water.  (3)  Oxalic  acid  is  often  used 
to  remove  traces  of  mud  which  do  not  yield  to  other  agents. 

Rust. — Same  as  "Vinegar"  (which  see). 

Nitrate  of  Silver. — (1)  Apply  chloride  of  copper;  then  touch  with  a  crystal  of 
hyposulphite  of  soda;  then  wash  with  water.  This  can  be  applied  to  colored 
woven  cotton  tissue.  For  white  cottons  and  linens,  use  dilute  solutions  of  per- 
manganate of  potash  and  hydrochloric  acid,  followed  by  the  hyposulphite  of  soda 
and  clear  water.  (2)  Moisten  the  spot  with  a  solution  of  bichloride  of  mercury. 
(3)  Moisten  repeatedly  with  a  weak  solution  of  cyanide  of  potassium,  and  rinse 
thoroughly  in  clear  water. 

Oil. — Same  as  "Grease"  (which  see). 

Paint. — (1)  For  new  stains,  saturate  as  often  as  necessary  with  equal  parts  of 
turpentine  and  ammonia;  when  quite  softened,  wash  out  with  soap  and  water. 
(2)  For  old,  dry  stains,  apply  olive  oil  or  butter;  when  softened  use  chloroform; 
or,  instead  of  the  chloroform,  use  turpentine  first,  and  then  benzine.  (3)  Patient, 
continuous  rubbing  with  chloroform,  will  remove  paint  from  black  silk  or  other 
material.  (4)  For  silks  or  satins,  spread  on  a  thin  paste  of  ether  and  carbonate 
of  magnesia;  after  the  ether  evaporates,  brush  away  the  magnesia,  or  rub  with 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  503 

crumbs  of  bread.  (5)  Use  turpentine  to  remove  the  oil,  and  oxygenated  water 
to  oxydize  the  lead,  and  finish  with  dilute  acetic  acid;  if  the  paint  contains  oxide 
of  iron,  oxalic  acid  can  be  used,  while  copper  colors  must  be  treated  with 
ammonia. 

Peach  Stains.-  These  may  be  removed  from  a  table  cloth  by  holding  it  over  a 
basin  and  pouring  hot  water  through.    See  also  "Fruit." 

Perspiration.— {1)  Apply  first  weak  ammonia;  then  bichloride  of  tin.  If  the 
color  is  not  altogether  destroyed  this  will  restore  it.  If  the  color  is  permanently 
affected  the  only  remedy  is  to  apply  the  appropriate  mordant,  and  then  paint  on 
the  requisite  color.  (2)  Apply  a  solution  of  hyposulphite  of  soda,  and  then 
bleach  if  the  goods  are  white. 
Pitch.— See  "Tar." 
Punch  Stains. — Wash  in  soapy,  and  then  in  clean  water. 

Scorches. — Apply  soapsuds  and  let  them  lie  in  the  sun.  If  that  fails,  put  1 
lb.  white  soap  in  1  gallon  milk,  and  boil  the  articles  in  it.  See  also  "The 
Laundry." 

Sauce. — Apply  benzine  or  turpentine  to  remove  the  grease  or  oil;  then  am- 
monia to  neutralize  the  juice  or  vinegar  in  the  gravy;  finally  clean  water  to  take 
out  the  blood,  etc. 

Sealing  Wax. — (1)  Warm  and  apply  strong  methylated  spirits.  (2)  Use  strong 
alcohol. 

Soup. — Same  as  "Milk"  (which  see). 

Stearine  or  Spermaceti. — Use  strong  95°  alcohol  to  cut  it,  on  any  kind  of 
goods. 

Sugar. — Wash  in  clean  warm  water. 

Tannin  or  Tanning  Juices. — See  "  Green  Nut  Shells." 

Tar  and  Pitch.— (1)  Rub  well  with  clean  lard;  then  wash  with  warm  water 
and  soap.  (2)  Apply  olive  oil;  then  benzine  or  turpentine.  (3)  Use  strong  alco- 
hol. (4)  On  silk  or  satin,  rub  with  clean  lard;  then  soap  well,  and  leave  it  on 
some  time;  then  wash  alternately  with  benzine,  and  water  falling  on  the  under 
side  from  some  height.  Treat  carefully.  (5)  Mix  turpentine  and  yolk  of  egg  and 
apply;  when  dry,  scratch  it  away,  and  wash  thoroughly  in  hot  water.  (6)  For 
silk  or  satin,  moisten  and  then  rub  with  ether  or  chloroform;  then  lay  on  chalk 
or  pipeclay;  then  blotting  paper,  and  pass  a  hot  iron  over  it. 

Tea  Stains. — (1)  Place  a  bowl  under  the  fabric  and  pour  clear  boiling  water 
through  the  stain.  (2)  Apply  equal  parts  of  ammonia  and  alcohol;  then  wash 
in  tepid  soapsuds. 

Urine.—  (1)  Wash  out  with  alcohol  or  dilute  citric  or  acetic  acid.  (2)  Same  as 
number  1  given  for  "  Perspiration"  (which  see). 

Varnish  or  Resin. — (1)  Warm,  and  apply  strong  methylated  spirits.  (2)  Use 
chloroform,  but  with  care.  (3)  Use  turpentine  or  benzine,  and  then  soapsuds. 
For  silk,  use  benzine  or  ether,  and  then  soap,  but  with  care. 

Vegetable  Dyes. — Same  as  number  2  given  for  "  Fruits  "  (which  see). 

Vinegar  and  Acid  Fruits. — (1)  For  white  goods,  wash  in  clean  water  to 
which  ammonia  has  been  added;  or,  if  a  fruit  stain  accompanies  the  acid,  wash 
with  water,  and  follow  with  chlorine  water.  (2)  For  colored  cotton,  woolen,  silk 
or  satin,  moisten  carefully  with  dilute  ammonia;  then  wash  in  clean  water.  (3) 
Apply  a  thin  paste  made  of  prepared  chalk  and  water;  this  will  be  preferable  for 
delicate  colors. 

Walnut  Stains. — Same  as  "  Green  Nut  Shells"  (which  see). 

Water. — If  water  falls  on  some  kinds  of  silks,  satin,  or  woolen  fabrics,  it  dis- 
solves away  a  part  of  the  dressing,  causing  a  dull  spot  on  the  glossy  ground; 
to  remedy  this,  steam  the  material  till  it  is  all  equally  moistened;  it  may  than 
be  hot-pressed,  or  if  small,  ironed  with  a  hot,  but  perfectly  clean  iron. 

Wax. — Remove  what  you  can  with  a  knife;  place  a  wet  linen  beneath,  cover 
the  stain  with  several  layers  of  blotting  paper;  and  pass  a  hot  iron  over;  the  heat 
melts  the  wax,  and  the  paper  absorbs  it.  Remove  any  remaining  trace  with 
benzine. 

Whitewash  Stains. — Wash  at  once  in  vinegar;  that  will  usually  restore  them. 

Wine. — (1)  Dip  the  stained  part  into  boiling  milk;  keep  the  milk  boiling  un- 
til the  stain  disappears.  (2)  For  port  and  claret  stains,  apply  a  little  salt,  and 
then  moisten  with  sherry.    (3)   Soap  the  stain j  then  burn  sulphur  under  the 


504  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

large  end  of  a  paper  funnel,  and  direct  the  small  end  to  the  spot  on  the  cloth.  (4) 
For  sour  wine,  same  as  "Vinegar"  (which  see).  (5)  On  white  goods,  rinse  with 
water,  apply  a  weak  solution  of  chloride  of  lime,  and  rinse  again  freely.  Restore 
the  dressing  by  steaming,  starching,  and  pressing. 

Red  Wine  Stains:  Same  as  number  2  given  for  "Fruit"  (which  see). 

Cleaning?  Compounds. — No.  1. — Take  %  oz.  oil  of  sassafras,  %  oz.  chloroform, 
i^  oz.  ammonia,  Y%  oz.  alcohol,  1  teaspoon  pulverized  borax;  mix,  shake  well, 
and  add  1  quart  of  deodorized  gasoline;  then  bottle  for  use.  This  is  a  splendid 
cleaning  compound  to  keep  in  the  house.  It  will  clean  ribbons,  neckties,  ruching, 
carpets,  greasy  clothing,  etc.  For  paint,  soak  the  spot  in  kerosene  oil,  and  then 
apply  this  mixture. 

No.  2. — Scrape  3lj  oz.  Castile  soap,  dissolve  it  in  1  quart  warm  water,  and  as 
it  cools  add  ^  oz.  glycerine,  %  oz.  sulphuric  ether,  and  1  oz.  alcohol;  keep  in  well 
corked  bottles.    Excellent  for  grease  spots,  etc. 

No.  3. — Take  1  drachm  alcohol,  %  drachm  chloroform,  %  drachm  sulphuric 
ether,  1  pint  deodorized  benzine;  mix,  and  add  enough  cologne  to  give  a  pleasant 
odor.  This  is  excellent  for  cleaning  cloth  gloves,  felt  hats,  coat  collars  and  is  use- 
ful to  keep  on  hand  for  removing  grease  spots,  etc.  Make  double  the  quantity 
if  desired. 

No.  4. — Take  fresh  calcined  magnesia,  and  mix  it  into  a  thick  paste  with  pure 
benzole.  Keep  in  a  wide  mouthed,  tightly  corked  bottle.  Apply  to  grease  spots, 
etc.,  and,  when  quite  dry,  brush  off. 

No.  5. — Equal  parts  of  ether,  alcohol  and  strong  ammonia  form  an  excellent 
cleaning  compound. 

No.  6. — Grate  a  potato  to  a  pulp,  and  add  water  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  to 
a  pound;  let  stand,  and  when  clear  pour  off  the  clear  part,  and  bottle.  Apply  to 
grease  spots,  etc.,  with  a  linen  rag,  and  follow  it  with  spirits  of  wine. 

Lightning  Eradicator. — Into  3  cups  warm  water  put  2  oz.  finely  shaved  castile 
soap,  2  oz.  strong  ammonia  water,  2  teaspoons  powdered  saltpetre;  mix  well,  and 
let  stand  4  days  before  using,  keeping  it  in  a  wide  mouthed,  well  stoppered  bottle. 
Rub  it  well  into  a  grease  spot,  and  rinse  then  with  clean  water.  Useful  also  for 
washing  delicate  colored  articles.  Diluted  with  water  and  sprayed  on  plants  it 
will  kill  any  insects  which  infest  them,  and  act  as  a  fertilizer  as  well.  It  may 
also  be  added  to  the  water  for  shampooing  the  head. 

Scouring  Balls. — Dissolve  J4  lb.  white  soap  (shaved  fine)  in  spirits  of  wine; 
add  8%  drachms  of  turpentine  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs;  add  enough  magnesia  to 
make  it  stiff  enough  to  form  into  balls.  Moisten  the  stain,  rub  with  the  ball,  let 
dry,  and  wash  with  soft  water;  repeat  if  needed. 

Black  Reviver. — (1)  Take  1  quart  of  water,  and  add  2  oz.  powdered  Aleppo 
galls,  2  oz.  logwood,  and  1  oz.  gum  arabic;  boil  till  reduced  %;  then  add  1  oz.  sul- 
phate of  iron.  Useful  to  renovate  faded  mourning  dresses,  old  black  coats, 
trousers,  etc.  (2)  Put  a  quantity  of  fig  leaves  in  water,  and  boil  till  the  liquid  is 
reduced  %;  apply  it  with  a  black  cloth.    Useful  to  take  stains  out  of  black  cloth. 


CEMENTS,  PASTES,  GLUES,  ETC. 

Cement  for  an  Aquarium. — Take  by  measure  10  parts  of  litharge,  10  parts  of 
plaster  of  paris,  10  parts  dry  white  sand,  and  1  part  finely  powdered  resin.  Mix 
them  with  boiled  linseed  oil  into  a  pretty  stiff  putty  when  wanted  for  use.  This 
will  stick  to  wood,  stone,  metal  or  glass,  and  harden  under  water.  Do  not  use 
the  tank  for  3  days  after  cementing  it. 

General  Utility  Cement. — A  splendid  cement  is  made  by  mixing  together 
litharge  and  glycerine  to  the  consistency  of  syrup.  It  will  resist  acids,  water, 
heat  and  cold.  Let  the  cement  fully  harden  before  using  the  article.  It  is  a 
general  utility  cement,  and  will  hold  lamp  tops,  stone  jars,  stop  cracks  in  iron 
kettles,  etc. 

Cement  to  Attach  Glass  and  Metal. — Mix  together  1  oz.  spirits  of  turpentine, 
2  oz.  linseed  oil  varnish,  and  4  oz.  of  thick  glue;  then  put  them  in  a  close  vessel 
and  boil.  Apply  to  the  glass  and  metal,  fasten  them  firmly  together,  and  let  dry 
for  3  or  4  days. 

An  Extra  Cement-— One  of  the  strongest  cements  known  is  made  by  mixing 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  505 

powdered  flint  glass,  ground  to  an  impalpable  powder,  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 
Colored  Glass  Cement. — If  finely  pulverized  chalk  is  stirred  into  a  solution  of 
soluble  glass  until  the  mixture  is  fine  and  plastic,  a  cement  is  obtained  which 
hardens  in  6  or  8  hours  and  possesses  remarkable  durability.  It  may  be  used  for 
about  the  same  purposes  as  plaster  of  paris,  but  is  much  harder  and  stronger. 
If  some  coloring  matter  is  substituted  for  part  of  the  chalk  different  colored 
cements  result.  Thus  vermilion  will  make  a  splendid  red  cement;  carmine,  a 
violet;  cobalt  blue,  a  blue;  carbonate  of  copper,  a  bright  green;  gray  antimony,  a 
dark  cement;  zinc  gray,  a  hard  gray  cement  which,  burnished,  appears  like 
metallic  zinc,  and  can  be  used  to  mend  zinc  vessels.  The  cement  also  sticks  to 
stone,  wood  and  metals. 

Cement  for  China,  Etc. — Mix  plaster  of  paris  into  a  strong  solution  of  gum 
arabic  until  it  attains  the  right  consistency.  Apply  with  a  brush  to  the  fractured 
edges,  and  let  it  dry  for  3  days.    This  cement  is  white  and  very  strong. 

Transparent  Cement  for  China,  Glass,  or  Earthenware.— A.  transparent 
cement  can  be  made  by  dissolving  Russian  isinglass  in  gin  with  a  gentle  heat, 
and  when  it  is  fully  melted  and  well  mixed  strain  through  a  thin  cloth;  then  bot- 
tle and  cork  tight.  It  will  easily  dissolve  with  a  little  heat,  and  should  be  warmed 
before  using.  Apply  with  a  small  brush  to  the  edges  of  the  broken  ware,  and 
then  tie  them  together,  letting  it  dry  for  several  days  before  using. 

Cement  for  Porcelain. — (1)  Take  1  part  of  pulverized  gum  arabic,  and  2  parts 
of  finely-powdered  oyster  shells,  and  mix  them  together  thoroughly.  Keep  in  a 
tightly-corked  bottle.  For  use,  rub  enough  of  this  up  with  the  white  of  an  egg 
to  make  a  thick  paste,  apply  it  to  the  broken  edges,  and  dry  with  a  gentle  heat. 
(2)  Another  cement  for  porcelain  is  simply  thick  white-lead  paint. 

Cement  for  Stone  and  Marble  Slabs. — Mix  hydraulic  cement  and  water-glass 
together  to  a  thick  dough;  apply  to  the  broken  edges  and  bind  together  until  dry. 
It  soon  hardens,  so  that  very  little  should  be  made  at  a  time. 

Cement  for  Glass. — Dissolve  fine  glue  in  strong  acetic  acid  to  form  a  thin 
paste. 

Cement  to  Fasten  Glass  Letters  Upon  Windows,  Etc. — Take  lpart  India  rub- 
ber, 3  parts  mastic,  and  50  parts  chloroform.  Let  the  mixture  stand  several  days 
in  a  closed  vessel,  and  apply  rapidly. 

Cement  for  Crockery,  China,  Marble,  or  Glassivare. — Thoroughly  mix  lime 
and  the  white  of  an  egg.  Apply  quickly  to  the  edges,  place  them  firmly  together 
and  it  soon  sets.  Mix  but  little  at  once  as  it  hardens  quickly.  This  is  very 
strong  and  easily  made. 

Cement  for  Stoneware. — Take  a  strong  solution  of  cold  alum  water  and  mix 
plaster  of  paris  into  it.  It  sets  .slowly,  but  becomes  very  hard.  Useful  also  for 
many  other  articles. 

To  Cement  Wood  to  Stone. — Take  4  parts  pulverized  chalk,  4  parts  pitch  and 
1  part  beeswax.  Melt  and  mix;  warm  before  using.  Apply  thinly  to  the  places 
to  be  joined. 

To  Cement  Plaster  of  Paris. — Cover  the  broken  surfaces  with  melted  shellac, 
press  firmly  together,  and  leave  till  cold  and  hard. 

Cement  for  Rubber.— (1)  Dissolve  strips  of  India  rubber  in  naphtha,  or  sul- 
phide of  carbon,  to  a  stiff  paste.  Naphtha  should  not  be  used  indoors,  or  near 
a  fire.  Or  (2)  dissolve  small  pieces  of  gutta-percha  in  benzine  to  a  thin  paste. 
This  makes  an  admirable  water-tight  cement  for  bottles  by  simply  corking  them 
and  dipping  the  stoppers  in  it.  It  dries  in  a  few  minutes,  and  will  mend  rubber 
overshoes,  etc.,  fasten  backs  on  books,  or  rips  in  upholstery,  and  is  generally  use- 
ful.   Keep  in  a  tightly-corked  bottle. 

Cement  for  Hard  Rubber. — Fuse  together  equal  parts  of  genuine  asphaltum 
and  gutta-percha.    Apply  hot  to  the  edges,  and  press  together  immediately. 

Cement  for  Fastening  Rubber,  Gutta-percha,  Leather  or  Cloth  to  Metal. — Take 
4  lbs.  of  the  best  glue,  4  oz.  of  saltpetre  acid,  4  oz.  gum  ammoniac.  Warm  the 
glue  over  a  fire  till  it  is  all  dissolved,  then  add  the  gum  ammoniac  and  thorough- 
ly mix.  Now  put  in  the  acid  and  thorougly  mix.  Have  the  metal  surface  warm 
and  dry  when  applied. 

Cement  for  Rubber,  Leather,  Cloth  or  Metals. — Fuse  together  equal  parts  of 
gutta-percha  and  pitch.    Use  hot.    A  valuable  cement  for  various  uses. 

Cement  for  Leather  or  Rubber. — Dissolve  1  oz.  gutta-percha  in  %  lb.  chloro- 

31 


506  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

form.  To  apply,  clean  the  parts  with  benzine,  apply  the  cement  to  each  part 
and  let  stand  20  or  30  minutes;  then  warm  both  by  a  candle  flame,  and  squeeze 
together  until  dry. 

Cement  for  Closing  Cracks  in  Stoves. — Get  finely  pulverized  iron  at  the  drug- 
gist's, and  mix  with  liquid  water-glass  to  a  thick  paste.  Coat  the  cracks  with  it 
and  the  hotter  the  fire  the  more  completely  will  the  crack  be  closed. 

A  Fireproof  Cement. — Mix  2  parts  sifted  wood  ashes,  and  1  part  air  slacked 
lime,  with  sufficient  boiled  linseed  oil  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  It  hardens 
quickly  to  the  solidity  of  stone,  and  can  be  used  around  fireplaces,  stovepipes, 
chimneys,  etc.    It  is  waterproof  also. 

Waterproof  Cement. — Take  4  oz.  shellac  and  1  oz.  borax;  boil  in  a  little  water 
until  dissolved,  and  concentrate  to  a  paste  by  heat. 

Cement  for  Cracks  in  a  Plastered  Wall. — Take  equal  parts  of  water  and 
silicate  of  potash;  then  mix  in  ordinary  whiting  to  the  right  consistency.  It  may 
be  applied  with  an  old  case  knife;  let  it  harden  about  50  or  60  minutes;  then 
smooth  it  off. 

Cement  to  Resist  Petroleum. — Boil  1  part  of  caustic  soda  and  3  parts  of  resin 
in  5  parts  of  water;  afterwards  mix  in  half  its  weight  of  plaster  of  paris  or  pre- 
cipitated chalk.    The  plaster  hardens  in  about  40  minutes. 

Acid  Proof  Cement. — Take  a  concentrated  solution  of  silicate  of  soda,  and 
mix  to  a  paste  with  powdered  glass. 

Rice  Cement,  Paste  or  Glue.— Mix  equal  quantities  of  rice  and  flour  thoroughly 
in  water  and  gently  simmer  the  mixture  over  a  clear  fire.  It  forms  a  delicate 
and  durable  cement. 

Japanese  Cement. — Take  rice  flour  or  powdered  rice  and  mix  it  intimately 
with  cold  water;  then  boil  it  to  form  a  thin  paste.  It  will  be  beautifully  white, 
dries  almost  transparent,  and  is  adapted  for  work  requiring  a  strong  and  color- 
less cement.  Also  much  less  water  can  be  used  and  in  this  way  a  preparation 
can  be  formed  thick  enough  for  modelling  figures,  ornaments,  busts,  etc. 

Diamond  Cement. — Place  a  tin  dish  in  a  pan  containing  boiling  water,  and 
put  in  it  1  lb.  white  glue  and  1  quart  soft  water;  when  this  is  dissolved  stir  in  4 
oz.  white  lead  and  boil  till  all  is  well  mixed.  Then  take  off  the  stove;  after  it  is 
cold  stir  in  J^  pint  alcohol.    Bottle  at  once;  keep  tightly  corked. 

Cement  for  Bone  and  Ivory. — (1)  Boil  colorless  isinglass  in  water  till  it  forms 
a  thick  solution;  then  make  to  the  consistency  of  honey  by  adding  washed  zinc 
white,  and  use.  (2)  Melt  together  at  moderate  heat,  resin,  white  wax  and  oil  of 
turpentine,  till  a  thick  fluid  mass  is  formed.  Color,  if  desired,  with  red  lead, 
ultramarine  blue,  etc. 

Cement  for  Ivory  or  Mother  of  Pearl. — Dissolve  1  oz.  of  isinglass  and  2  oz. 
white  glue  in  30  oz.  water;  strain  and  evaporate  to  6  oz.  Add  %  drachm  of  gum 
mastic  dissolved  in  "%  oz.  of  alcohol;  add  1  oz.  white  zinc.  For  use,  warm  and 
shake  well;  also  warm  the  broken  edges. 

Cement  for  Meerschaum. — Use  quicklime  mixed  to  a  thick  cream  with  the 
white  of  an  egg. 

Cement  for  Bottle  Corks. — Use  pitch,  hardened  by  the  addition  of  resin  and 
brick  dust. 

To  Weld  Horn. — Pieces  of  horn  may  be  joined  by  heating  the  edges  until 
they  are  quite  soft,  and  pressing  them  together  until  they  are  cold. 

Waterproof  Glue.— A.  glue  which  will  be  impervious  to  water  may  be  prepared 
by  boiling  %  lb.  glue  in  1  quart  of  skimmed  milk. 

To  Strengthen  Glue.—(1)  Mix  powdered  chalk  into  it.  (2)  It  is  said  that 
white  lead  added  to  glue  makes  it  waterproof,  and  strengthens  it. 

Liquid  Glue. — Dissolve  2  oz.  good  glue  in  4  oz.  cider  vinegar.  If  too  thick, 
add  more  vinegar;  if  too  thin,  more  glue.  Easily  made  and  good,  but  use  gen- 
uine vinegar. 

Liquid  Glue  for  Labeling  on  Tin. — Take  1  quart  boiling  water;  2  oz.  pulver- 
ized borax;  add  4  oz.  gum  shellac  and  boil  till  dissolved. 

Prepared  Glue. — Take  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  and  put  in  8  oz.  best  glue  and 
%  pint  of  water.  Set  in  a  kettle  of  water  and  heat  until  the  glue  is  dissolved; 
then  stir  in  slowly  1%  oz.  of  strong  nitric  acid.  Keep  tightly  corked  and  it  will 
be  ready  for  use  always,  and  very  strong. 

Marine  Glue.—{1)  Dissolve  20   grains  of   caoutchouc  and  2  fluid  ounces  of 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  507 

chloroform,  and  add  4  drachms  of  powdered  mastic;  let  it  macerate  for  a  week. 
Keep  cool  and  cork  well.  (2)  Dissolve  by  heat  2  oz.  of  pure  India  rubber  in  naph- 
tha; when  melted  add  4  oz.  shellac;  melt  until  mixed;  pour  while  hot  on  metal 
plates  to  cool;  when  required  to  use,  melt  and  apply  with  a  brush. 

Glue  to  Resist  Fire. — Mix  a  handful  of  quicklime  in  4  oz.  of  linseed  oil;  then 
spread  on  tin  plates  in  the  shade  and  it  will  become  exceedingly  hard,  but  may 
be  easily  dissolved  over  the  fire  and  used  as  ordinary  glue. 

Preserving  Mucilage  and  Paste. — A  few  drops  of  oil  of  cloves,  or  of  alcohol, 
or  any  essential  oil,  will  preserve  a  quart  of  the  mucilage  of  gum  arabic  or  gum 
tragacanth  from  turning  sour.  A  little  dissolved  alum  will  preserve  flour  paste. 
Adding  a  little  carbolic  acid,  will  prevent  mold  in  paste  or  mucilage.  Anything 
strongly  odoriferous,  like  bergamont,  clove  oil,  etc.,  mixed  in  paste  preserves  it 
indefinitely  from  the  attacks  of  insects. 

Best  Mucilage. — Dissolve  gum  tragacanth  in  water;  then  add  a  few  drops  of 
oil  of  cloves  and  a  pinch  of  alum. 

Mucilage  for  Labels,  Etc. — Mix  2  oz.  of  dextrin,  1  drachm  of  glycerine,  1  oz. 
of  alcohol  with  6  oz.  of  water. 

Fastening  on  Labels. — For  attaching  labels  to  tin  and  other  bright  metallic 
surfaces,  first  rub  the  surface  with  a  mixture  of  muriatic  acid  and  alcohol;  then 
apply  the  label  with  a  very  thin  coating  of  paste  and  it  will  adhere  almost  as  well 
as  on  glass.  Labels  that  are  exposed  to  acid  fumes  or  damp  may  be  attached 
with  any  good  paste,  and,  when  dry,  coated,  with  copal  varnish.  If  neatly  done 
the  appearance  is  very  good,  and  the  moisture  and  acids  have  no  action  on  them. 

A  strong  mucilage,  which  keeps  well,  is  formed  by  mixing  equal  parts  of  pow- 
dered gum  arabic  and  gum  tragacanth,  and  dissolving  them  in  dilute  acetic 
acid. 

Postage  Stamp  Mucilage. — Take  2  oz.  dextrin,  1  oz.  of  acetic  acid,  5  oz.  water; 
dissolve  them  by  the  aid  of  heat,  and  add  1  oz.  spirits  of  wine. 

A  Paste  That  Will  Keep  for  Months. — (1)  Take  4  oz.  flour,  34  oz.  finely  pow- 
dered alum,  and  mix  very  smoothly;  then  add  water  and  boil  gently.  When 
taken  off  the  fire  stir  in  a  drachm  of  essential  oil  of  cloves.  Put  in  a  jar,  cover 
over,  and  it  will  always  be  ready  for  use.  (2)  Boil  gum  tragacanth  in  water  until 
thin  enough  for  paste.  Add  a  little  cologne  to  prevent  its  molding.  Excellent 
and  strong;  will  stick  to  leather  or  cloth  as  well  as  paper. 

Paste  That  Will  Adhere  to  Whitewash  and  All  Plastered  Surfaces. — Soften 
9  lbs.  of  finely-powdered  bole  in  water;  next  boil  %  lb.  of  glue,  adding  it  to  the 
above,  with  1  lb.  of  gypsum.  The  whole  is  to  be  diluted  to  a  thin  paste.  When 
putting  fine  paper  on  old  walls  it  is  well  to  coat  them  with  a  foundation  paper, 
using  this  paste. 

Paperhanger's  Paste. — (1)  To  each  pound  of  sifted  flour  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
crushed  alum,  and  mix  with  boiling  water  in  the  usual  way,  stirring  constantly. 
(2)  Use  1  pint  of  rye  flour  to  1  gallon  of  soft  water;  put  it  into  the  water  while 
cold,  put  over  the  fire,  and  stir  till  boiling  hot.  Have  ready  1  oz.  of  alum  and  % 
oz.  white  glue,  dissolved  in  water,  and  stir  them  in.  Should  the  paste  become 
thick  as  it  cools,  stir  in  boiling  soft  water  till  it  is  very  thin.  Excellent  for 
everything  but  the  most  delicate  papers.  (3)  Use  clear  corn-starch  prepared  the 
same  as  for  starching  clothes.  A  little  carbolic  acid  added  will  guard  against 
vermin. 

A  Hint.— Adding  either  copperas  or  cayenne  pepper  to  the  paste  used  for  hanging 
paper  will  preserve  it  from  the  attacks  of  mice.  Alum  added  to  the  paste,  injures  crimson 
colors  in  "flock  papers,"  and  should  not  he  used  for  such. 

Strong  Paste  for  Pasteboard. — Mix  30  parts  of  starch  and  20  parts  of  cold 
water  till  it  becomes  a  perfectly  smooth  paste.  Gradually  add  to  this  an  equal 
amount  of  very  thin  hot  glue,  which  must  be  kept  at  the  boiling  point.  Add  a 
little  carbolic  acid,  and  heat  the  whole  mass  for  a  few  minutes. 

Scrap-book  Paste. — (1)  Dissolve  a  piece  of  common  glue,  2  inches  square,  in 
water;  add  as  much  pulverized  alum  by  weight  as  there  is  of  glue;  then  mix  % 
teaspoon  of  flour  in  water,  stir  it  in,  and  boil  all.  When  nearly  cold  stir  in  2  tea- 
spoons of  oil  of  lavender.  (2)  Dissolve  1%  teaspoons  of  powdered  alum  in  enough 
water  to  make  1  pint  of  paste;  when  dissolved,  pour  it  onto  flour  enough  to 
thicken  it  as  stiff  as  common  paste;  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  all  the  time;  when 
done  add  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  cloves.    Excellent.    (3)  Take  %  pint  of  water,  3 


508  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

drachms  gelatine,  1  oz.  rice  starch;  heat,  with  constant  stirring,  till  the  milky 
liquid  becomes  thick  and  glassy;  add  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  cloves.  Keep  in  a 
tight  bottle. 

Paste  to  Mount  Photographs. — Mix  good  starch  with  cold  water  enough  to 
moisten  it,  and  thin  down  to  the  proper  consistency  with  boiling  water;  add  a 
little  camphor  to  keep  it  good;  strain  through  a  fine  cloth  to  prevent  any  lumps. 

To  Stick  Paper  to  Metal. — Dip  the  metal  into  a  strong  and  hot  solution  of 
washing  soda,  and  rub  dry  with  a  clean  rag.  Then  apply  onion  juice  to  the  sur- 
face of  the  metal  and  any  paper  or  label  will  adhere  very  firmly. 

To  Make  Sealing  Wax. — Red.— Melt  1  lb.  shellac  and  2  lbs.  resin;  mix  in  % 
lb.  of  Venice  turpentine  and  Ted  lead.  Same  proportion  for  less  quantity. 
Black,  the  same,  but  color  with  lampblack  instead  of  red  lead. 

Sealing  Wax  for  Fruit  Cans. — Take  8  oz.  resin,  2  oz.  gum  shellac,  %  oz- 
beeswax;  melt  all  together.    Melt  and  use  as  wanted. 

Shoemaker's  Wax. — Take  4  lbs.  resin,  1  lb.  pitch,  4  oz.  beeswax,  3  oz.  best 
sperm  oil.    Boil  and  pull. 


INKS,  STAMPING  PREPARATIONS,  ETC. 

Preserving  Ink. — Adding  a  little  carbolic  acid  will  prevent  mold  in  ink;  so 
will  adding  a  few  cloves;  besides  which  the  latter  will  impart  an  agreeable  flavor 
to  it. 

Ink  Powder. — Take  7  oz.  copperas,  7  oz.  gum  arabic  and  1  lb.  nut  galls;  pul- 
verize and  mix.  This  amount  of  powder  will  make  one  gallon  of  good  black  ink. 
To  prevent  its  molding,  add  2  or  3  powdered  cloves  to  each  pound  of  powder. 

Red  Ink. — Half  a  drachm  of  powdered  lake,  and  18  grains  of  powdered  gum 
arabic,  dissolved  in  3  oz.  of  ammonia  water,  makes  one  of  the  finest  red  or  car- 
mine inks. 

To  Improve  the  Color  of  Ink. — To  1  pint  of  common  black  ink  add  1  drachm 
of  impure  carbonate  of  potassa.  In  a  few  minutes  it  will  become  jet  black.  Be 
careful  the  ink  does  not  run  over  during  the  effervescence  caused  by  the  potassa. 

Carbon  Ink. — Use  genuine  India  ink  rubbed  down  with  good  black  ink  until 
it  will  flow  easily  from  the  pen.    This  ink  resists  chlorine  and  oxalic  acids. 

Drawing  Ink. — Dissolve  shellac  in  a  hot  water  solution  of  borax,  and  rub  up 
in  this  solution  a  fine  quality  of  India  ink.  Dip  the  pen  in  alcohol  and  wipe  dry 
after  using.    Very  black,  and  indelible. 

India  Ink. — Take  thin  gum  water,  or  a  thin  size  of.  isinglass  and  water,  and 
work  into  it  enough  of  the  finest  lampblack  to  make  a  thick  paste;  scent  it,  if 
desired,  with  a  few  drops  of  musk,  mold  it  into  sticks,  and  leave  it  to  dry.  For 
common  purposes  it  will  equal  India  ink. 

Blue  Writing  Fluid. — Dissolve  basic  or  soluble  Prussian  blue  in  pure  water. 
This  is  the  most  permanent  and  beautiful  ink  known. 

Indelible  Ink. — A  strong  solution  of  Prussian  blue,  dissolved  in  distilled  water, 
with  good  ox-gall,  makes  an  ink  which  turns  black  and  cannot  be  erased. 

Indelible  Ink  for  Marking  Cloth. — Take  1  oz.  of  rain  water  and  dissolve  in  it 
2  drachms  gum  arabic,  5  scruples  nitrate  of  silver,  and  1  scruple  of  indigo.  Noth- 
ing better  made.  After  marking  the  goods,  heat  with  a  hot  iron  or  dry  in  the 
sun. 

Ink  for  Marking  Packages. — Take  lampblack  and  mix  it  thoroughly  with 
sufficient  turpentine  to  make  it  flow  freely  from  the  brush.  Powdered  ultra- 
marine instead  of  lampblack  makes  a  fine  blue  mixture  for  the  same  purpose. 

Invisible  Ink. — (1)  A  solution  of  chloride,  or  nitro-muriate  of  cobalt  turns 
green  when  heated,  and  disappears  again  on  cooling.  (2)  Write  with  sweet 
milk  or  a  solution  of  1  teaspoon  of  white  sugar  dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling  water. 
On  heating  it  turns  brown. 

Cold  Ink. — Take  equal  parts  honey  and  gold  leaf;  triturate  until  the  gold  is 
reduced  to  the  finest  state  of  division  possible;  agitate  with  30  parts  water  and 
allow  it  to  settle.  Decant  the  water  and  repeat  the  washing  several  times;  finally 
dry  the  gold  and  mix  it  with  a  little  weak  gum  water  for  use. 

Silver  Ink. — Use  silver  leaf  instead  of  gold  leaf  and  proceed  as  above. 

Copying  Ink. — Add  2  parts  of  glycerine  to  4  parts  of  common  violet  ink. 
With  good  copying  paper  it  will  copy  without  a  press. 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  509 

Enduring  Ink. — Take  1  gallon  rain  water,  6  oz.  powdered  nut-galls,  4  oz.  cop- 
peras, 2  oz.  gum  arabic,  2  oz.  brown  sugar;  powder,  mix  thoroughly,  and  shake 
occasionally  for  10  days.  Will  endure  for  centuries  and  may  be  used  for  records, 
etc. 

Indestructible  Ink.—  Mix  4  parts  oil  of  turpentine  and  1  part  genuine  Trini- 
dad asphaltum;  color  with  plumbago  for  black,  or  vermilion  for  red.  Will  resist 
fire,  etc. 

To  Erase  Ink. — To  erase  black  ink  use  oxalic  acid  or  javelle  water.  To  erase 
ruling  inks  mix  1  oz.  acetic  acid  and  1  oz.  saturated  solution  of  chloride  of  lime; 
use  when  fresh. 

Note.— If  in  erasing  ink  the  blue  lines  on  writing  paper  are  taken  out  also,  they  can  he 
marked  in  again  with  a  solution  of  common  bluing  such  as  is  used  in  washing  clothes,  add- 
ing a  little  ox-gall  to  make  it  flow  well. 

To  Restore  Obliterated  Ink.—(1)  With  a  brush  apply  a  solution  of  potassium 
ferrocyanide;  if  any  of  the  iron  of  the  original  ink  is  left  the  writing  will  appear 
in  blue.  (2)  If  the  paper  has  been  immersed  in  sea  or  salt  water,  remove  the 
salt  by  washing  in  warm  water,  and  then  soak  it  in  a  weak  solution  of  gallic  acid, 
say  3  grains  to  the  oz.  (3)  Wash  in  clean  water,  and  soak  in  a  solution  of  photo- 
sulphate  of  iron  (10  grs.  to  the  oz.). 

To  Prevent  Ink  from  Souring. — Add  to  each  pint  bottle  a  few  drops  of  clove 
oil  or  carbolic  acid. 

To  Preserve  Steel  Pens. — The  acid  in  inks  eats  steel.  If  some  pieces  of  iron 
or  steel  (like  old  pens,  nails,  etc.,)  are  put  in  the  ink  the  acid  exhausts  itself  on 
them,  and  will  not  thereafter  attack  the  pens  used.  Pens  stuck  in  lime  or  pearl- 
ine  when  not  in  use,  will  be  kept  from  rusting. 

Stencil  Ink. — Dissolve  in  a  little  boiling  water  1  part  borax  and  1  part  shellac; 
dilute  to  the  consistency  of  thin  syrup  with  hot  water.  To  produce  a  red  ink  add 
logwood;  for  a  blue  ink  add  Prussian  blue. 

Ink  for  Leather. — Dissolve  1  part  gum  arabic  and  1  part  copperas  in  a  little 
boiling  water;  add  a  little  extract  of  logwood.    Dilute  with  hot  water  if  it  gums. 

Ink  for  Glass. — Rub  up  with  strong  gum  arabic  equal  parts  of  iron  scales 
(hammer  scales)  and  lampblack.    Can  also  be  used  on  earthenware  or  china. 

Ink  for  Zinc. — (1)  Take  1  dr.  sal  ammoniac,  %  dr.  lampblack,  1  dr.  verdigris, 
and  mix  with  10  dr.  water.  This  is  indelible  on  zinc.  Or,  (2)  take  1  part  gum 
arabic,  1  part  dry  bichloride  of  platinum,  10  parts  distilled  water;  mix.  This  ink 
is  black  and  resists  acids  or  water. 

To  Mark  Silver  With  a  Black  That  Will  Never  Go  Off. — Pulverize  burnt  lead; 
then  incorporate  it  with  sulphur  and  vinegar  to  the  consistency  of  a  paint,  and 
write  with  it  on  silver  plate.  When  dry,  heat  it  a  little  before  the  fire  and  it  is 
complete. 

To  Mark  On  Steel. — (1)  Warm  it  and  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  wax  or  tallow. 
Then  write  with  a  pointed  instrument  which  will  penetrate  through  the  wax  to 
the  steel.  Then  pour  nitric  acid  over  the  surface  and  leave  a  few  minutes,  and 
wash  off  with  water.  Clean  off  the  wax  and  the  writing  will  appear  engraved  on 
the  steel.  (2)  Another  method  is  to  dissolve  sulphate  of  copper  in  water  so  as  to 
make  a  liquid,  like  ink,  and  add  a  little  sulphuric  acid;  write  with  this,  using  a 
quill  pen;  copper  letters  will  be  formed  on  steel  or  iron. 

Copying  Paper. — -For  a  black  paper  make  a  thick  paste  by  mixing  cold  lard 
or  lampblack;  spread  the  mixture  on  the  paper  with  a  cloth,  and  then  rub  with 
flannel  until  no  more  color  comes  off.  For  a  red  paper  proceed  in  the  same  man- 
ner, but  use  Venetian  red  instead  of  the  lampblack.  For  blue,use  Prussian  blue. 
For  green,  use  chrome  green.  By  using  alternate  sheets  of  writing  paper  and  any 
of  these  sheets,  and  writing  on  the  top  sheet  with  a  solid  pen,  several  copies  may 
be  produced  at  once. 

Copying  Paper  (German  Process). — Soak  4  parts  of  the  best  glue  in  a  mixture 
of  5  parts  of  water  and  3  parts  of  liquor  of  ammonia  till  the  glue  is  thoroughly 
softened.  Warm  it  till  the  glue  is  dissolved,  and  add  3  parts  of  granulated  sugar 
and  8  parts  of  glycerine,  stirring  the  whole  well  and  letting  it  come  to  the  boiling 
point.  While  the  mixture  is  hot,  paint  it  witii  a  broad  brush  on  clean  white 
blotting  paper  until  the  latter  is  thoroughly  soaked  and  a  thin  coating  remains 
on  the  surface.  Let  it  dry  for  2  or  3  days  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  The  writ- 
ing or  sketch  to  be  copied  is  done  with  aniline  ink  on  writing  paper.  Before  trans- 


510  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

ferring  it  to  the  blotting  paper,  wet  the  latter  with  a  sponge  or  brush  and  clean 
water,  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  2  minutes.  Place  the  written  side  on  the  blotting 
paper,  and  press  out  air  bubbles;  after  a  few  moments  of  gentle  pressure,  remove 
the  written  paper.  A  number  of  copies  can  then  be  taken;  when  the  impressions 
grow  faint,  damp  the  surface  of  the  blotting  paper  again.  It  works  like  a  hecto- 
graph, and  makes  a  fair  substitute  for  that. 

Powder  for  Stamping  Velvet,  Plush  and  Felt. — (1)  Take  1  oz.  English  resin, 
1  oz.  gum  demar,  loz.  gum  copal,  1  oz.  gum  sandarac,  3  oz.  dry  white  lead.  Mix. 
After  stamping  the  goods  wring  a  cloth  out  of  gasoline  and  layover  the  stamping 
for  about  half  a  minute;  then  remove,  and  let  it  dry  in.  New  and  excellent.  This 
makes  a  white  powder.  Blue  powder  may  be  made  the  same  way,  except  leave 
out  the  white  lead;  and  substitute  1  oz.  gilding  powder  and  3  oz.  ultramarine 
blue.  (2)  Take  equal  parts  of  pulverized  gum  demar  and  white  resin,  and  add 
enough  Persian  blue  to  color  to  suit. 

To  Gild  Upon  Silk,  Satin,  Etc. — Mix  together  3  parts  distilled  water  and  1 
part  nitro-muriate  of  gold  in  solution;  dip  a  brush  in  this  fluid,  and  trace  out  on 
the  silk  or  satin,  the  pattern  or  design;  while  still  wet,  expose  it  to  a  stream  of 
hydrogen  gas;  then  wash  in  clean  water  and  the  gilding  will  be  finished. 

Common  Sour  is  prepared  by  stirring  into  clean  water  sufficient  oil  of  vitriol 
to  make  it  taste  sharp.    Used  in  working  various  textile  fabrics. 

A  Lubricator. — Mix  1  part  of  fine  black  lead,  ground  perfectly  smooth,  with  4 
parts  of  lard. 

A  FEW  USEFUL  ARTICLES. 

The  following  list  is  not  intended  to  be  complete,  but  is  designed  to  call  at- 
tention to  a  few  very  useful  articles  which  may  to  advantage  be  kept  on  hand 
by  housekeepers.  All  miscellaneous  articles  should  be  very  clearly  and  plainly 
labeled,  so  that  no  mistakes  can  occur  in  their  use,  and  most  of  them  should  be 
kept  locked  up  in  the  storeroom,  if  there  is  one.  See  also  the  articles  given  under 
"Removing  Spots  and  Stains." 

Alum. — This  has  some  medicinal  properties,  being  good  to  stop  nose  bleed, 
check  diarrhoea,  etc.  A  hot  solution  of  alum  makes  a  most  excellent  insect  de- 
stroyer, as  elsewhere  explained.  It  is  useful  for  some  cements,  and  if  mixed 
with  starch  lessens  the  inflammability  of  clothing.  It  is  a  powerful  astringent, 
and  is  used  in  medicine  as  such. 

Borax. — This  is  a  compound  containing  boracic  acid  and  soda.  It  has  many 
domestic  uses.  It  will  soften  hard  water,  and  is  very  useful  in  washing  clothes,  and 
if  properly  used  will  greatly  reduce  the  amount  of  soap  required.  It  does  not 
injure  the  texture  of  the  cloth  like  sal  soda.  If  added  to  the  water  in  which  the 
hands  are  washed  it  keeps  them  soft  and  white.  It  will  drive  away  many  insects, 
and  will  be  very  useful  to  keep  in  the  house.  It  is  also  used  for  settling  mineral 
dyes. 

Charcoal. — This  has  so  many  uses  that  it  should  be  kept  on  hand  in  every 
family.  Both  the  wood  and  animal  charcoals  are  useful.  The  best  wood  charcoal 
is  not  made  from  either  the  hardest  or  softest  woods.  It  should  be  pulverized 
while  still  hot,  and  kept  in  closely  stoppered,  wide-mouthed  bottles,  as  it  is  nearly 
valueless  unless  fresh.  It  is  an  excellent  deodorizer,  makes  a  good  tooth-powder, 
is  valuable  in  preserving  meats,  etc.,  purifies  water,  and  it  has  many  medicinal  vir- 
tues; especially  for  diseases  of  the  digestive  system.  Its  use  is  often  referred  to 
in  our  pages. 

Disinfectants. — We  have  elsewhere  discussed  the  merits  of  the  more  common 
disinfectants.  The  great  value  and  importance  of  their  use  is  now  so  well  under- 
stood that  every  family  storeroom  should  contain  at  least  one  or  two  of  the  more 
useful  kinds,  like  carbolic  acid  and  copperas  or  chloride  of  lime,  and  they  should 
be  freely  used  when  occasion  calls  for  them.  Common  salt  is  a  great  disinfectant. 
Soapsuds  with  salt  added  until  it  is  a  strong  brine  should  be  used  for  the  first 
water  when  clothing  is  washed  which  has  been  used  by  a  person  sick  with  a  con- 
tagious disease. 

Javelle  Water. — Dissolve  1  lb.  saleratus  in  1  pint  soft  water;  then  mix  4  oz. 
fresh  chloride  of  lime  in  1  pint  water,  stirring  it  to  remove  all  lumps.  It  may 
not  all  dissolve.    Pour  the  2  mixtures  together,  stir  and  shake  thoroughly;  set 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  511 

aside  and  when  settled  pour  off  the  clear  liquid  and  bottle  for  use.  Use  glass  or 
earthen  vessels  in  preparing  it.  Useful  for  bleaching  or  washing  and  removing 
various  stains.  The  part  which  is  left  after  pouring  off  the  clear  liquid  can  be 
used  in  cleaning  the  sink,  white  floors,  wood  tables,  etc. 

Lime  Water. — Take  a  2  gallon  jar  of  pure  soft  water,  and  put  in  about  3  lbs. 
of  unslacked  lime;  shake  it  well,  and  allow  it  to  settle;  pour  off  and  bottle  the 
clear  liquid.  This  can  be  done  2  or  3  times  until  it  ceases  to  taste  of  the  lime; 
then  add  more  lime.  Lime  is  twice  as  soluble  in  cold  as  in  hot  water.  A  little 
of  this  water  added  to  cream  or  milk  will  keep  it  from  "turning."  Mixed  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  milk,  or  much  more,  it  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  the  bowel 
complaint  in  children,  and  irritability  of  the  stomach,  and,  with  a  little  of  this 
added,  milk  will  stay  on  the  stomach  when  it  would  not  otherwise.  A  little  of  it 
will  prevent  milk  from  "curdling"  which  would  otherwise  do  so  when  heated, 
and  it  can  thus  be  used  for  pies,  etc.  Bottles  which  have  contained  milk  are 
sweetened  by  it.  In  fact  it  has  many  uses.  Keep  it  in  green  glass  bottles,  and 
well  corked,  or  it  will  soon  lose  its  virtue. 

Washing  Soda. — The  carbonate  of  soda,  or  "washing-soda,"  is  a  strong  alkali. 
This  has  so  many  uses  that  it  should  be  bought  by  the  quantity,  when  it  can  be 
obtained  quite  cheaply.  Then  keep  it  locked  in  the  storeroom  so  that  it  will  not 
be  misused  by  the  servants.  To  prepare  it  for  use,  put  a  pan  on  the  stove  and 
in  it  put  1  pint  of  the  dry  soda  and  3  quarts  of  boiling  water;  leave  it  on  the 
stove  till  fully  dissolved,  stirring  it  repeatedly;  let  it  get  cold,  and  then  put  it 
into  preserve  jars  or  wide-mouthed  bottles,  and  label  it  plainly  as  "Washing- 
Soda."  Some  of  this  used  in  washing  the  sink,  sink  brushes,  dish-cloths,  etc.,  will 
keep  them  delightfully  clean  and  sweet.  A  hot  solution  of  this,  poured  down 
the  sink  pipe  from  time  to  time,  will  prevent  the  formation  of  greasy  deposits, 
as  explained  under  "Sinks  and  Drains."  For  the  value  of  soda  in  washing,  see 
our  article  on  "The  Laundry." 

Polishing  Materials.— Whiting,  rottenstone,  flour  of  emery,  tripoli,  and  lime 
are  the  5  articles  most  valuable  for  domestic  uses,  and  a  small  vial  of  each,  plainly 
labeled,  should  be  in  every  house.  They  are  referred  to  and  their  uses  more  fully 
explained  in  our  article  on  metal  wares. 

Uses  of  Tea  Leaves. — Keep  old  tea  leaves  for  a  few  days,  then  let  them  soak 
in  a  tin  pail  for  *%  hour;  strain  through  a  sieve  and  use  the  liquor  for  all  var- 
nished paints;  it  cleans  and  makes  it  look  equal  to  new.  Do  not  use  it  on  unvar- 
nished paints.  It  will  also  clean  windows,  oil  cloth,  and  looking-glasses.  The 
tea  leaves,  squeezed  nearly  dry,  make  an  excellent  thing  to  scatter  on  a  carpet 
before  sweeping  it. 

Uses  of  Newspapers. — These  may  be  put  to  many  more  uses  than  many  people 
imagine.  They  are  good  to  clean  glassware,  like  lamp-chimneys,  windows,  mir- 
rors, etc.,  zinc,  tinware,  stoves  and  knives.  The  printing-ink  on  newspapers  acts 
as  a  defiance  to  moths;  therefore  wrapping  things  in  newspapers  is  a  first-rate 
preservative.  They  are  invaluable  under  the  carpet,  laid  over  the  regular  carpet 
paper.  They  are  also  invaluable  to  keep  out  the  air.  Ice  completely  enveloped 
in  newspapers,  so  that  all  air  is  shut  out,  will  keep  a  very  long  time.  A  jug  of 
ice-water  wrapped  round  in  a  newspaper  with  the  ends  of  the  paper  twisted  to- 
gether to  exclude  the  air  will  remain  all  night  in  any  summer  room  with  hardly 
any  visible  melting  of  the  ice.  In  freezing  ice-cream  when  ice  is  scarce,  pack  the 
freezer  %  full  of  ice  and  salt,  and  finish  with  newspapers,  and  the  difference  in 
the  time  of  freezing  and  quality  of  the  cream  is  not  perceptible  from  the  result 
when  the  freezer  is  packed  full  of  ice.  Cover  ice  molds  with  newspapers,  and 
they  will  retain  the  cold  better  than  a  packing  of  cracked  ice  and  salt,  which  must 
have  crevices  to  admit  the  air. 

Oil. — To  keep  it  from  becoming  rancid,  add  a  few  drops  of  ether.  Rancid  oil 
may  be  restored  by  boiling  for  about  15  minutes  with  a  little  water  and  calcined 
magnesia;  or  filter  through  freshly  burnt  charcoal. 

To  unite  oil  and  water,  adding  a  little  salts  of  tartar  (i.  e.,  carbonate  of  potash) 
is  the  best  and  cheapest  medium  to  use.  (An  alkali  will  cut  the  oil  into  fine 
particles,  and  then  they  can  be  held  in  water  as  an  emulsion.) 

Anti-Corrosive  Oil.— Put  any  quantity  of  olive-oil  in  a  wide-necked  bottle,  and 
insert  therein  a  few  coils  of  very  thin  sheet  lead;  cork  the  bottle,  and  expose  to 
the  sun  for  3  or  4  weeks;  then  pour  off  all  that  is  quite  clear.    This  oil  will  never 


512  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

corrode  nor  thicken,  and  can  be  used  for  clocks,  sewing  machines,  and  delicate 
machinery. 

INSECT  PESTS. 

The  many  insects  which  infest  a  house  are  a  great  annoyance  to  housekeep- 
ers. The  following  hints  on  the  best  ways  to  get  rid  of  them  will  be  helpful  to 
our  readers. 

Ants. — (1)  Slices  of  cucumber  scattered  about  will  drive  away  any  ants,  as 
well  as  crickets,  cockroaches,  etc.  (2)  Wet  a  sponge  with  any  sweet  syrup;  when 
the  ants  flock  to  the  sponge  plunge  it  in  boiling  water,  thus  killing  them.  Then 
sweeten  and  set  it  again.  (3)  For  red  ants,  grease  a  plate  with  lard,  as  they  prefer 
that  to  sugar;  put  a  few  sticks  around  the  edge,  and  when  they  flock  to  the  plate 
turn  it  bottom  up  over  the  fire,  and  they  will  fall  in  with  the  melting  lard.  Then 
set  the  plate  again.  (4)  Keeping  a  bag  of  sulphur  in  a  drawer  or  cupboard  will 
drive  them  away.  (5)  Cayenne  pepper  blown  into  the  cracks  and  scattered  about 
repels  them.  (6)  Apply  with  a  brush  to  shelves  and  crevices  where  they  congre- 
gate, very  hot  alum  water,  proportioned  at  1  lb.  alum  to  3  pints  water.  (7)  For 
black  ants,  scatter  a  few  leaves  of  wormwood  about  their  haunts;  or  pour  benzo- 
lene  down  their  holes.  (8)  Quassia  chips  boiled  in  water,  and  a  very  little  soft 
soap  added,  will  destroy  black  ants.  (9)  Rubbing  shelves  with  carbolic  soap  is  often 
effectual,  and  this  is  a  good  disinfectant  also.  (10)  Sweet  fern  or  cloves  scattered 
about  repels  them.  (11)  Put  a  little  sweetened  water  in  a  dish  and  stir  in  a  little 
tartar  emetic — only  a  little  is  needed;  set  it  where  they  congregate  and  it  will 
finish  them.  Don't  let  children  get  at  this.  (12)  Pennyroyal,  either  an  infusion 
of  the  plant  or  the  oil,  is  disagreeable  to  ants  and  all  insects.  (13)  Washing 
shelves,  and  while  they  are  moist  rubbing  on  salt  thickly,  drives  away  ants. 

To  Exterminate  Ants  from  a  Lawn  or  Garden. — (1)  Pour  carbolic  acid  water 
down  their  nests.  (2)  Boil  1  lb.  of  cape  aloes  in  a  gallon  of  water  and  add  6  oz.  of 
powdered  camphor.  Excavate  the  ant-hill  and  pour  in  a  quart  of  this,  covering 
as  much  space  as  possible,  and  then  fill  the  nest  again.  Where  the  nests  cannot 
be  found,  dilute  this  largely  with  water,  and  sprinkle  it  over  leaves,  etc.,  through 
the  nose  of  a  watering  can.  (3)  Tobacco  water  is  effectual  if  poured  on  for  a  few 
nights  till  they  disappear.  (4)  Puffing  Dalmation  insect  powder  into  their  holes 
every  morning  for  a  few  days  will  usually  clear  out  ants.  (5)  Another  excellent 
exterminator  is  to  take  4  oz.  potash  and  %  lb-  flour  of  brimstone.  Set  them  in  an 
iron  or  earthen  pan  over  the  fire  until  dissolved  and  united;  afterwards  beat  to  a 
powder.  Infuse  some  of  this  in  water  and  wherever  sprinkled  about  the  house  or 
grounds  the  ants  will  die  or  leave.  (6)  Another  plan  is  to  punch  a  hole  in  the  ant 
hill  with  a  wooden  stick  or  iron  rod;  pour  a  little  bisulphide  of  carbon  into  this 
hole,  and  then  fill  it  by  pressing  the  earth  around  it;  the  fumes  will  penetrate  the 
hill  and  exterminate  the  ants.  As  this  is  an  explosive  substance  it  must  be  used 
with  care,  but  if  kept  away  from  the  fire  is  comparatively  safe.  It  is  a  volatile 
liquid,  and  its  fumes  are  very  destructive  to  animal  life. 

Anthrenus  Varins. — This  is  an  insect  which  feeds  on  almost  any  dry  animal 
substance;  whalebone,  combs,  horn  scoops,  etc.,  are  often  attacked  by  them. 
They  often  appear  in  museums,  drug  stores,  etc.  Bisulphide  of  sulphur  will  kill 
them  in  all  stages.  The  odor  of  camphor  will  keep  non-infested  materials  from 
their  attacks. 

Bedbugs. — Good  fresh  insect  powder,  freely  used,  will  kill  them.  Either  kero- 
sene, benzine,  gasoline  or  naphtha  will  be  effectual  if  thoroughly  applied  to  all 
cracks  in  bedsteads,  etc.  The  foregoing  5  remedies  are  probably  the  best  things, 
and  are  effectual.  A  strong  solution  of  salt  and  water  will  kill  them;  then  fill 
the  cracks  with  salt.  The  alum  solution  given  among  the  exterminators  is  effec- 
tual. So  is  turpentine,  and  so  is  oil  of  sassafras  thinned  with  a  little  alcohol — 
use  the  red  instead  of  white  sassafras  oil.  The  above  are  much  better  to  use  than 
Paris  green  and  other  strong  poisons.  The  eggs  are  laid  early  in  March.  Apply 
the  remedy  freely,  once  in  March  and  repeat  in  July  or  August,  and  they  can  be 
exterminated. 

Bees. — (1)  To  destroy  the  black  bees,  place  on  the  floor  where  they  assemble 
2  or  3  shallow  tin  vessels  half  filled  with  water,  with  strips  of  cardboard  running 
from  the  floor  to  the  edge.    They  run  up  the  cardboard  and  perish  in  a  watery 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  513 

grave.  (2)  Cucumber  peel  scattered  around  is  about  the  simplest  and  best  thing 
to  use. 

Bites  and  Stings  of  Insects. — For  the  stings  of  bees  and  wasps,  first  extract 
the  sting  and  then  apply  a  paste  made  of  soda  and  water.  It  gives  almost  instant 
relief.  For  fleas,  bugs,  gnats  and  mosquitoes,  apply  a  preparation  of  1  oz.  of 
glycerine  to  50  drops  of  dilute  carbolic  acid;  or  use  carbolized  vaseline;  or  use  a 
solution  of  borax  and  ammonia,  or  strong  alum  water  and  glycerine.  The  juice 
of  an  onion,  or  anything  "strong,"  if  applied  at  once,  will  serve  for  any  of  these 
bites,  always  extracting  the  sting,  however,  of  a  bee  or  wasp.  A  paste  of  powdered 
ipecacuana  in  water  is  excellent  for  bites  of  scorpions,  etc. 

Nettle  Stings. — Examine  the  skin  and  remove  all  prickles,  and  treat  the  same 
as  for  stings  of  bees  or  wasps. 

Black  Beetles.— (1)  Throw  a  mixture  of  Persian  insect  powder  and  powdered 
wormseed  around  where  they  frequent.,  (2)  Use  powdered  borax,  about  %  lb.  to 
each  room.  Scatter  it  about  freely,  and  particularly  blow  it  in  cracks  and  crevices 
where  they  can  hide.  It  makes  them  emigrate.  Those  which  it  kills  may  be 
swept  up  afterwards  without  injury  to  carpets  or  furniture.  Repeat  once  a  week 
until  they  disappear.  (3)  Camphor  dissolved  in  spirits  of  wine  and  painted  over 
their  haunts  is  often  an  effectual  remedy.  (4)  Cucumber  peel  scattered  about 
is  one  of  the  simplest  and  best  methods  of  getting  rid  of  them.  (5)  Onions 
chopped  up,  mixed  with  borax,  and  spread  on  bread  will  fix  them.  The  onion 
attracts  them  and  the  borax  kills  them. 

Bristle-Tail  or  Silver-Fish. — These  little  silvery  insects  feed  on  silken  cloth- 
ing, tapestry,  and  often  books.  Good  fresh  insect  powder  will  kill  them.  So 
will  sulphur. 

Cabbage  Worms. — Dissolve  %  lb.  of  saltpetre  in  2  gallons  of  water,  and  apply 
with  a  sprinkler.     If  one  application  is  not  sufficient  apply  again. 

Caterpillars. — (1)  Boil  together  equal  quantities  of  wormwood,  rue  and  any 
cheap  tobacco.  Make  the  liquid  strong.  Sprinkle  it  on  young  leaves  and  branches 
every  morning  and  evening  while  the  fruit  is  ripening.  (2)  Hang  pieces  of  woolen 
rag  on  every  tree  and  bush.  The  caterpillars  will  congregate  on  them,  and  are 
then  easily  destroyed. 

The  Carpet  Beetle  (also  called  Buffalo  Moth). — Gasoline,  naphtha,  kerosene 
and  benzine  are  all  efficacious — probably  benzine  is  the  best  to  use  on  the  whole. 
When  they  once  infest  a  house  it  is  difficult  to  get  rid  of  them  wholly  without 
energetic  measures.  Take  up  the  carpets,  steam  them  or  spray  them  well  with 
benzine,  and  spray  around  the  baseboards  and  in  the  cracks  in  the  floors  with 
benzine,  or  pour  it  from  a  can  with  a  small  nozzle — a  stream  the  size  of  a  knitting 
needle  is  enough,  as  only  a  little  is  needed.  Then  fill  the  cracks  with  a  moder- 
ately thick  mixture  of  plaster  of  paris  and  water  before  relaying  the  carpet. 
This  will  keep  others  out  of  the  cracks.  Pepper  is  disagreeable  to  the  moths, 
and  scattered  on  the  floor  before  relaying  the  carpet  will  tend  to  keep  them  from 
laying  a  new  batch  of  eggs  there.  Placing  strips  of  tarred  roofing  paper  around 
the  borders  of  the  room  and  using  carpet  lining  furnishes  probably  the  best  pro- 
tection. Near  the  baseboards  is  the  most  vulnerable  part.  Apply  the  benzine 
there  at  once  if  they  begin  work.  The  steam  generated  by  pressing  a  very  hot 
iron  on  wet  cloths  laid  on  a  carpet  also  kills  both  moth  and  larvas.  Benzine  will 
kill  them  on  clothing,  covered  furniture,  etc.,  and  also  apply  it  freely  in  chests 
or  drawers  in  which  infested  clothing  has  been  stored. 

The  insect  was  introduced  into  America  from  Europe  in  1872.  The  moth  lays  an  egg 
which  hatches  into  a  larvae,  and  that  does  the  mischief.  Its  worst  work  is  done  in  June, 
July  and  August.  The  insect  feeds  on  the  pollen  of  various  shrubs,  and  is  particularly 
fond  of  spirea.  When  this  insect  appears  it  is  not  best  to  have  that  plant  near  the  home, 
as  the  moth  will  fly  from  that  to  the  house  and  lay  its  eggs. 

Cockroaches. — (1)  Sprinkle  borax  plentifully  in  their  haunts,  not  1  or  2  times, 
but  renew  every  day  for  1  or  2  weeks;  it  banishes  them-  (2)  Lay  the  parings  of 
green  cucumbers  at  night  where  they  congregate;  repeat  each  night  and  in  a 
short  time  they  disappear.  (3)  Sprinkle  hellebore  on  the  floor  at  night;  it  finishes 
them.  (4)  Camphor  gum  scattered  where  they  frequent  banishes  them.  (5) 
Sprinkle  liberally  where  they  rendezvous  37  parts  borax,  9  parts  starch,  and  4  parts 
cocoa,  thoroughly  mixed.  (6)  Inject  into  the  cracks,  and  apply  with  a  brush  to  the 
woodwork  about  their  hiding  places,  the  strong,  hot  solution  of  alum  given 
among  the  exterminators.    It  is  good  also  for  bedbugs  and  other  insects. 


514  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

Crickets. — (1)  Scatter  cucumber  parings  about  and  they  will  disappear. 
Probably  the  simplest  thing.  (2)  Trap  them  in  a  covered  box  with  a  perforated 
lid  containing  a  little  salt  or  oatmeal.  (3)  Half  fill  some  jam  pots  with  water  and 
set  at  night  as  a  trap  for  them. 

The  "Death  Watch." — This  is  a  species  of  beetle  which  attacks  furniture  and 
sometimes  food.  The  noise  is  made  by  rapping  the  wood  with  its  head.  Wood- 
work may  be  protected  from  their  attacks  by  washing  it  with  a  solution  of  cor- 
rosive sublimate  and  alcohol,  or  carbolic  acid  water.  Books,  etc.,  may  be  fumi- 
gated with  the  fumes  of  burning  sulphur,  or  exposed  to  the  odor  of  carbolic  acid. 
Benzine  will  kill  them. 

Earwigs. — Place  a  length  of  hollow  bean  stalk  or  other  hollow  tube  where  the 
insects  collect,  and  each  morning  empty  them  into  boiling  water  by  blowing 
through  it  sharply.  Their  favorite  food  is  dahlias,  roses,  carnations,  etc.  For 
protection,  place  flower  pots  on  the  top  of  stakes.  Tie  a  piece  of  wood  dipped  in 
oil  around  the  stake,  and  also  around  the  flower  stalk  about  a  foot  from  the 
earth.    This  will  prevent  their  climbing  up. 

Fleas. — To  drive  from  the  bed,  scatter  dried  camomile  flowers  about  the  bed, 
or  sprinkle  the  bed  or  night  dress  with  a  little  spirits  of  camphor,  or  a  few  drops 
of  oil  of  lavender.  To  keep  from  the  person  sponge  yourself  with  a  solution  of 
34  ounce  camphor  and  %  ounce  tincture  of  myrrh  in  1  quart  of  water.  Shake 
well  before  using.  On  animals  oil  of  pennyroyal  will  certainly  drive  them  away, 
or  where  the  herb  abounds  use  a  decoction.  Wash  or  sprinkle  them  with  it. 
Remove  and  burn  old  straw,  litter,  etc.  On  hogs  sprinkle  the  above  on  their 
backs  and  ears  while  they  are  feeding.  Carbolic  acid  is  also  good,  and  so  is 
Persian  insect  powder,  or  Ceyenne  pepper. 

Flies. — A  castor-oil  plant  or  Japanese  lily  growing  in  a  room  will  kill  many 
and  drive  away  the  rest.  Laurel  oil  spread  on  picture  frames,  curtains,  etc.,  will 
afford  protection.  Boil  1  oz.  of  quassia  chips  in  1  pint  of  water  for  10  minutes; 
strain  and  add  4  oz.  molasses.  This  will  attract  and  destroy  them.  Insect  pow- 
der if  blown  about  will  clear  a  room.  Wood  ashes  thrown  into  drains  and  on 
heaps  of  rubbish  destroys  their  eggs.  On  animals,  a  strong  infusion  of  smart- 
weed  applied  with  a  sponge  or  brush  will  keep  them  off  for  24  hours.  Or,  apply 
soapsuds  containing  a  little  carbolic  acid.  It  is  said  that  a  branch  of  elder  bush 
hung  in  a  room  will  keep  out  flies,  as  they  detest  its  smell.  Oil  of  lavender  will 
drive  them  away.  A  mixture  of  sugar  and  borax  will  kill  them.  A  paste  made 
of  1  pint  of  laurel  leaves  and  %  pi^  glycerine,  and  applied  to  window  and  door 
casings  will  rid  a  room  of  flies.  Two  applications  will  keep  a  kitchen  clear  for 
two  weeks  it  is  said.  The  smell  is  not  deleterious  to  human  beings;  but  the 
leaves  taken  into  the  stomach  are  poisonous.  Stables  can  be  freed  from  them 
by  keeping  the  floor  well  swept  and  clean,  and  sprinkling  on  kerosene  oil — using 
but  little. 

A  good  sticky  fly-paper  can  be  made  by  soaking  paper  in  a  strong  solution  of 
alum  and  drying  it;  then  take  boiled  linseed  oil  and  resin,  melt  it  and  add  honey; 
then  spread  it  on  the  prepared  paper.  Equal  parts,  by  measure,  of  castor  oil 
and  melted  resin,  thoroughly  mixed,  and  spread  on  writing  or  other  non-porous 
paper,  will  destroy  them. 

Gnats. — Same  as  mosquitoes.  Also  the  smell  of  turpentine  is  said  to  drive 
them  away;  saturate  a  rag  and  tie  to  the  hat  when  fishing,  or  smear  the  hands 
and  face  with  an  ointment  scented  with  it. 

Harvest  Bugs. — Smear  the  legs  over  with  a  decoction  of  colocynth;  or  apply 
1  oz.  insect  powder  macerated  in  1  oz.  weak  spirit,  and  then  diluted  with  2%  oz. 
water.    The  insects  will  not  attack  the  parts  thus  smeared. 

Insects  on  Trees,  Shrubs,  Etc. — These  may  be  destroyed  by  tying  brimstone 
(flour  of  sulphur)  in  a  gauze  bag,  and  sprinkling  it  over  the  plants. 

Lice. — (1)  Wash,  the  part  affected  with  water  containing  one  part  carbolic 
acid  to  20  of  water.  Or,  (2)  use  1  part  of  sulphurous  (not  sulphuric)  acid  to  3 
of  water.    The  latter  is  excellent  to  destroy  parasites  on  furniture,  dogs,  etc. 

Mosquitoes. — (1)  As  a  preventive,  mix  50  parts  of  glycerine  with  1  part  of 
dilute  carbolic  acid,  and  rub  it  on  the  exposed  skin.  The  smell  of  the  carbolic 
acid  may  be  disguised  with  a  little  lavender  if  desired.  (2)  Kerosene  or  any  of 
the  essential  oils  applied  to  the  skin  is  a  protection  against  these  pests.  (3)  To 
keep  from  the  bed,  hang  on  the  bedstead  a  few  bruised  leaves  of  pennyroyal,  or  a 


ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE.  5i5 

sponge  dipped  in  camphorated  spirits,  or  lay  over  the  head  of  the  bed  a  cloth 
moistened  with  a  teaspoonf ul  of  carbolic  acid.  (4)  To  drive  from  a  room,  burn 
camphor  in  a  tin  dish  over  a  lamp  so  that  it  evaporates  without  igniting;  or  burn 
alittle  insect  powder  (pyrethrum)  on  a  hot  shovel,  or  sprinkle  a  little  of  it  on  a 
piece  of  burning  camphor;  or  scatter  oil  of  pennyroyal  about  the  room.  .A  bottle 
of  pennyroyal  left  uncorked  in  a  room  over  night  will  clear  them  out.  (5)  The 
castor-bean  plant  raised  in  tubs  about  the  house  or  planted  in  the  garden  will 
rid  the  house  of  them. 

Moths. — Benzine  or  gasoline  will  kill  both  moth  and  eggs,  and  can  be  applied 
without  injury  to  carpets,  clothing,  etc.  Good  fresh  insect  powder  freely  applied, 
will  protect  clothing,  feathers,  furs,  etc.,  as  they  cannot  live  where  it  is,  but  it 
does  not  kill  the  eggs.  Moths  in  carpets  may  be  killed  by  laying  on  a  wet  cloth 
and  applying  a  very  hot  iron;  the  steam  thus  generated  kills  both  moth  and  eggs; 
or  sprinkle  on  benzine  or  gasoline,  which  kills  them  both. 

The  old-fashioned  plan  for  protection  was  tq  rely  on  strongly  aromatic  substances,  (the 
value  of  which  contisted  in  the  fact  that  their  odor  was  disagreeable  to  "the  moths) 
such  as  camphor,  cedarwood,  tobacco,  Russia  leather,  cloves,  etc.  (camphor  and  cedarwood 
being  about  the  best)  but  the  above  is  the  most  effectual  treatment.  If  the  insect  powder  is 
used,  however,  be  sure  that  it  is  fresh  and  good.  If  the  odoriferous  substances  are  relied 
on,  use  enough  to  make  the  odor  reasonably  strong,  as  that  is  their  only  merit,  and  renew 
it  when  it  becomes  weak. 

The  Life  History  of  MOths.— During  the  cold  weather  of  the  winter  season  the  worms 
lie  torpid;  they  are  transformed  into  crysalids  early  in  the  spring,  and  in  about  3  weeks 
they  hatch  out  into  the  winged  state.  They  fly  about  for  a  time  and  then  lay  their  eggs, 
when  they  at  once  die.  They  always  seek  out  dark  places  to  deposit  their  eggs,  which  are 
very  small — too  small  for  the  unaided  eye  to  detect.  After  about  2  weeks  these  minute  eggs 
hatch  out  into  small  worms  which  do  the  mischief ,  and  which  begin  their  work  at  once.  As 
all  moths  work  in  the  dark,  articles  which  are  in  the  light  are  not  so  much  exposed  to  their 
depredations. 

Slugs  and  Snails. — (1)  Put  salt  on  their  trails  (not  tails).  (2)  Take  cabbage 
leaves,  soften  them  in  an  oven,  cover  with  fresh  dripping,  and  lay  where  they 
frequent.  The  leaves  will  soon  be  covered  with  slugs  and  snails  and  they  can  be 
destroyed.  (3)  No  slugs  will  approach  the  smell  of  garlic,  and  a  few  pieces  placed 
near  plants,  etc.,  will  keep  them  away.  (4)  A  piece  of  haircloth  tied  around  the 
base  of  a  fruit  tree  will  keep  them  off.  (5)  If  a  few  slices  of  turnip  are  laid  about 
in  the  evening  the  slugs  will  gather  on  them  and  may  then  be  destroyed.  (6) 
Garden  walls  with  salt  sprinkled  on  top  and  at  the  bottom  will  not  be  troubled 
with  snails  crawling  over  them. 

Wasps. — Put  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  pulverized  commercial  potassium  cyanide 
into  the  entrance  of  the  nest  without  disturbing  it  or  the  insects.  They  enter, 
never  to  come  out  again. 

Weevils. — Weevils  in  beans,  rice,  wheat,  and  peas  may  be  destroyed  by  sub- 
jecting the  grain  to  a  temperature  of  130°  to  145°  for  an  hour.  This  does  not  hurt 
them  for  eating,  but  injures  some  of  them  for  seed.  Beans,  etc.,  designed  for 
eating  can  be  treated  to  the  hot  bath.  If  a  little  bisulphide  of  carbon  is  put  into 
the  center  of  a  bin,  by  means  of  a  tube,  the  fumes  will  soon  destroy  all  weevils  or 
grain  insects  which  may  be  within  the  bin.  See  what  we  say  about  the  use  of 
this  substance  under  "Ants." 

A  Word  About  Exterminators. — Benzine  and  gasoline  are  among  the  cheap- 
est and  best  insect  exterminators  known.  They  may  be  applied  freely  to  cloth- 
ing, carpets,  upholstered  furniture,  mattresses,  etc.;  the  odor  soon  evaporates, 
but  all  vermin  are  effectually  destroyed.  Their  inflammability  makes  care  nec- 
essary when  ignition  is  possible.  Insect  powder  kills  moths,  bedbugs,  fleas,  and 
small  insects;  the  larger  insects  it  does  not  kill.  Hot  alum  water  (1  lb.  alum  to 
3  pints  water)  is  death  to  all  vermin  where  it  can  be  applied,  and  is  an  excellent 
thing  for  common  use.  All  insects  dread  pennyroyal;  when  the  fresh  herb 
cannot  be  gathered  get  the  oil  of  pennyroyal;  pour  some  in  a  saucer  and 
steep  cotton  wadding  in  it,  and  place  in  bureau  drawers,  boxes,  closet  shelves,  etc. 
Ants,  cockroaches,  etc.,  will  soon  disappear.  Also  excellent  for  brushing  off  the 
seed  tick.  Applied  to  dogs,  sheep,  horses,  cattle  and  swine,  it  will  keep  off  fleas, 
flies  and  mosquitoes.  A  decoction  of  2  oz.  lobelia  seed  steeped  in  1  quart  of  water 
will  also  keep  most  insects  off  animals.  Oil  of  peppermint  in  vapor  is  destructive 
to  cockroaches,  etc.     Oil  of  cedar  repels  moths  and  is  destructive  to  vermin. 

The  best  disposition  to  make  of  dead  insects  is  to  sweep  them  up  and  throw 
them  into  the  fixe. 


516  ALL  ABOUT  THE  HOUSE. 

♦» 

To  Clear  Fruit  Trees  from  Insects. — Into  3  or  4  gallons  of  water  put  %  lb- 
tobacco,  %  lb.  sulphur,  )4  peck  of  unslacked  lime;  syringe  the  trees  well  with  this 
mixture  and  it  will  effectually  destroy  blight. 

Rats  and  Mice. — Bats. — Mix  together  8  oz.  strong  cheese  and  2oz.  squills,  and 
place  in  the  haunts  of  rats;  they  eat  the  cheese,  the  squills  act  at  once,  and  the 
rats  die  immediately.  Much  better  than  the  usual  rat  poison.  Or,  sprinkle  cay- 
enne pepper  in  their  holes,  or  place  a  mixture  of  powdered  glass  and  tar  in  their 
holes  and  run-ways.  It  banishes  them.  If  they  infest  an  empty  house,  scatter 
chloride  of  lime  on  the  top  floor— they  will  retreat  to  the  one  below;  then  scatter 
it  there,  and  they  will  retreat  to  the  next  lower  story.  Drive  them  thus  to  the 
cellar;  scatter  there,  and  they  will  leave.  Do  not  scatter  in  the  lower  stories  first, 
however,  as  that  only  drives  them  up.  After  driving  them  out  keep  a  little  of 
the  lime  in  the  cellar  and  they  will  not  pome  back — it  gives  a  permanent  rid- 
dance. In  using  any  poison,  place  a  shallow  basin  of  water  near  it;  rats  or  mice 
will  at  once  run  to  and  drink  it,  dying  there  instead  of  in  their  holes. 

Mice. — Mix  tartar  emetic  with  pumpkin  seeds,  cheese,  or  some  favorite  food, 
and  place  for  them.  They  will  leave.  Camphor  gum  mixed  with  seeds,  or  placed 
in  drawers,  trunks,  etc.,  will  preserve  them  from  mice.  They  dislike  the  odor  of 
camphor  and  keep  away  from  it.  Peppermint,  or  any  other  kind  of  mint,  scat- 
tered about  the  shelves  will  keep  them  away,  it  is  said.  Pumpkin  seeds  make 
the  best  bait  for  mice  traps.  Ceyenne  pepper  will  drive  them  away  where  it  is 
scattered.  Chloride  of  lime  is  as  effectual  with  mice  as  with  rats.  Saturate  a 
rag  with  a  solution  of  ceyenne  pepper  and  stuff  it  in  a  rat  or  mouse  hole  they 
will  not  touch  it. 


THE  LAUNDRY. 

There  is  probably  no  part  of  the  regular  home  work  which  it  is  more  difficult  to 
have  done  right  than  that  belonging  to  the  laundry.  Many  or  most  of  the 
women  who  claim  to  be  good  laundresses  display  an  appalling  ignorance  of  the 
subject,  and  the  woman  who  trusts  her  work  to  them  will  often  be  dismayed  at 
the  result.  Those  who  do  their  own  washing  will  welcome  every  hint  which  will 
help  them,  and  those  who  do  not,  should  take  pleasure  in  knowing  how  it  ought 
to  be  done,  for  sooner  or  later  it  is  sure  to  be  of  use  to  the  possessor.  The 
housewife  should  know  why  one  article  has  acquired  a  yellow  tinge,  and  what 
will  eradicate  it;  why  another  has  suddenly  and  unaccountably  fallen  into  holes; 
and  what  is  left  undone  to  her  table  linen  that  it  comes  home  without  the  bright, 
glossy  look,  which  it  ought  to  have.  By  the  improved  methods  of  washing  now 
known  3^  the  labor  can  be  saved,  and  these  we  aim  to  explain,  together  with  the 
best  methods  of  handling  various  kinds  of  goods. 

The  laundry  should  contain  3  or  4  tubs  (the  paper  or  saw-dust  being  best,  as 
they  will  not  fall  to  pieces  if  kept  dry);  2  or  3  pails  for  drawing  water;  a  long 
smooth  stick  for  stirring  the  clothes  while  boiling;  1  medium-sized  tin  pail;  1 
large  dipper;  1  large  and  1  small  basket;  2  cotton  bags,  3  feet  long  and  2  feet 
wide,  in  which  the  most  delicate  articles  can  be  placed  before  being  boiled;  1  or  2 
high  wooden  clothes-horses,  and  a  line  on  which  to  dry  clothes  in  bad  weather; 
an  ironing  table;  a  closet  for  holding  irons,  ironing  blankets,  etc.  In  the  closet 
should  be  kept  5  or  6  doz.  clothes-pins  (the  wooden  being  much  the  best);  starch 
and  gum  arabic;  bags  for  straining  the  starch;  bluing;  %  doz.  irons;  1  polishing 
iron;  ironing  blankets  and  sheets;  a  lump  of  beeswax  wrapped  in  cloth;  a  board 
lj^  feet  long  and  8  inches  wide  on  which  to  iron  shirt  bosoms;  a  paper  or  cushion 
of  pins;  1  bottle  of  kerosene  or  washing  fluid,  and  3  or  4  good  iron-holders.  The 
ventilation  of  the  room  should  be  especially  attended  to,  so  that  the  steam  can 
be  carried  off  without  the  necessity  of  a  draft  from  an  open  door  or  window. 
Ventilators  high  up  in  the  wall  which  can  be  opened  and  closed  at  will  are  best. 
Water  must  be  convenient;  either  drawn  from  pipes,  or  from  a  pump  or  well. 
Rain  water  is  the  very  best  for  washing,  and  should  be  caught  and  preserved  if 
possible.  Where  soft  water  is  used,  only  %,  as  much  soap  is  needed  for  washing. 
We  elsewhere  explain  how  to  soften  hard  water. 

Washing  Clothes. — By  long  custom  Monday  has  become  established  as  wash 
day.  There  are  many  advocates  of  Tuesday  washing,  however,  and  the  latter  has 
many  advantages,  as  Monday  can  be  devoted  to  sorting  over  the  clothes,  mend- 
ing them,  etc.  Before  being  washed  the  clothes  should  be  looked  over,  any 
needed  mending  done,  and  any  stains  from  fruit,  grass,  etc.,  removed,  as  stains 
are  much  more  easily  removed  before  they  are  touched  by  soap  (we  explain  else- 
where how  to  remove  stains  of  all  kinds).  The  clothes  should  then  be  arranged 
in  lots,  the  laces  and  linens  being  put  by  themselves,  the  bed  and  body  linen  in 
another  pile,  table  linen,  towels  and  doilies,  in  another,  colored  dresses,  socks  and 
stockings  together,  and  flannels  by  themselves.  And  now  as  to  the  washing. 
One  of  the  best  methods  for  reducing  its  labor  is  by  the  use  of  kerosene,  as 
follows: 

Kerosene  for  Washing. — Fill  the  boiler  %  full  of  soft  water  and  shave  in  1 
lb.  of  good  soap.  When  the  water  boils  and  the  soap  is  dissolved,  add  2%  table- 
spoons of  kerosene  oil.  Now  pick  out  the  cleanest  pieces,  put  them  loosely  into 
the  boiler  and  let  boil  hard  for  10  to  15  minutes,  turning  them  occasionally;  then 
take  them  out  and  put  in  the  next  cleanest,  boil  the  same  way,  and  so  on  until 
all  are  thus  boiled.  On  taking  out  each  lot  look  them  over,  and  if  there  are  any 
dirty  spots  on  them  rub  them  on  the  washboard,  but  usually  no  rubbing  is 
required;  then  rinse  them  in  clear,  hot  rinsing  water,  then  in  the  bluing  water, 
and  then  wring  out  for  drying. 

Do  not  put  too  many  pieces  in  at  a  time.  Should  the  water  boil  low,  add 
more,  and  %  lb.  of  shaved  soap  and  a  tablespoon  of  oil.  The  kerosene  takes  out 
the  dirt  as  if  by  magic,  does  not  in  the  least  injure  even  fine  clothes,  and  leaves 

(517) 


518  THE  LAUNDRY. 

no  trace  of  its  odor  when  they  are  dry.  Some  people  measure  the  water  on 
putting  it  in  the  boiler  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  kerosene  to  each  pail  of  water 
used,  and  that  is  a  good  proportion,  producing  excellent  results. 

Washing  Fluid. — The  next  best  labor  saving  device  is  by  the  use  of  washing 
fluid,  made  as  follows:    In  %  gallon  of  water  dissolve  1  lb.  of  washing  soda;  add 

1  gallon  of  clear  lime  water  (have  it  from  freshly  slacked  lime),  stir  together,  let 
it  settle,  and  then  pour  off  the  clear  water;  to  this  add  3  oz.  borax  dissolved  in 

2  pints  boiling  water;  let  it  get  cold  and  add  3  oz.  pulverized  carbonate  of  ammo- 
nia; when  fully  dissolved  pour  off  into  bottles,  and  cork  tightly.  To  use,  add  L 
cupful  to  each  6  gallons  of  water;  let  the  clothes  soak  in  it  over  night,  in  the 
morning  rub  them  a  little  if  they  need  it  (many  of  the  cleanest  ones  will  need  no 
rubbing),  run  them  through  the  wringer,  then  put  them  in  the  boiler  and  scald, 
then  put  them  through  the  wringer  again,  pass  through  the  rinsing  water  and 
hang  out  to  dry.  This  saves  half  the  work  of  washing,  and  is  much  less  injurious 
to  the  clothes  than  most  washing  fluids  (it  is  not  nearly  as  hard  on  clothes  as  the 
old  method  of  rubbing  on  the  wash  board  which  wears  them  out)  and  is  greatly 
liked  by  those  who  use  it. 

Washing  Fluid  No.  2. — Take  8  oz.  unslacked  lime,  borax  the  size  of  an  egg,  1 
lb.  sal  soda,  and  1  gallon  of  water;  bring  it  to  a  boil,  remove  from  the  fire,  let 
settle,  pour  off  the  clear  liquid  and  bottle  for  use.  For  use,  into  a  boiler  of  cold 
water  put  soap  and  1  teacup  of  this  fluid.  Put  the  clothes  in  dry,  and  when  they 
come  to  a  boil  they  are  ready  to  take  out;  wet  the  next  boiler  of  clothes,  and  put 
into  the  same  suds;  let  them  come  to  the  boiling  point,  but  do  not  boil;  then 
rinse  through  hot  water,  and  then  in  the  bluing  water.  Some  of  these  improved 
methods  should  be  tried  by  housekeepers,  and  washing  day  will  be  robbed  of 
half  its  terrors. 

Soaking  Clothes.— Thoughtful  women  often  ponder  the  question  "To  soak  or  not  to 
soak? "  The  first  action  of  soaking  is  to  soften  the  dirt  so  that  it  is  removed  with  less  wear 
and  tear  to  the  clothes,  hut  when  soaked  all  night  the  ohjection  is  that  it  does  too  much. 
While  the  first  action  of  the  soap  or  alkali  is  to  combine  with  the  dirt  and  render  it  soluble, 
if  allowed  to  stand  12  hours  or  so  it  forms  new  compounds,  less  apparent  to  the  eve,  but 
harder  to  remove.  This  is  often  the  reason  that  clothes  have  a  dead,  heavy  smell  after 
being  done  up.  This  is  particularly  apt  to  be  the  case  if  washing  powders  or  washing  fluids 
are  used  to  soak  them  in. 

Washing  Fluids  and  Powders.— The  washing  fluids  on  the  market  usually  contain 
ammonia  or  chloride  of  lime,  and  a  proportion  of  borax,  and  the  powders  are  usually  made 
of  soap  too  hard  to  dissolve  readily,  which  is  dried,  crushed,  and  mixed  with  powdeped 
potash  or  borax.  If  proper  care  is  taken  they  can,  however,  be  used.  A  tablespoon  of 
either,  stirred  into  a  tubful  of  hard  water  before  putting  in  the  clothes,  will  soften  it.  But 
never  on  any  account  put  any  such  powder  into  the  water  while  the  clothes  are  in  it,  as  the 
strong  alkalies  they  usually  contain  instead  of  at  once  dissolving  in  the  water  may  settle 
on  the  clothes  and  eat  holes  in  them. 

Washing  With  Turpentine.— Turpentine  has  been  sometimes  recommended  as  an 
addition  to  washing  fluid.  When  applied  in  hot  water  to  the  bare  arms  of  the  laundress  it 
is  liable  to  be  absorbed  through  the  pores  of  the  skin  and  cause  illness,  and  hence  it  is  best 
not  to  use  it.  Although  it  possesses  some  value  as  a  detergent,  the  above  fact  should  be 
borne  in  mind  when  its  use  is  recommended. 

The  Height  of  Tubs.— It  will  save  many  a  backache  if  the  tubs  are  fixed  at  the  right 
height.  If  you  are  tall  raise  the  tub;  if  short  have  a  little  box  or  stool  to  stand  on.  Many 
women  are  careless  about  these  little  points  and  suffer  in  consequence. 

Soaps. — A  cheap  hard  soap  can  be  made  by  shaving  4  largs  bars  of  yellow  soap 
into  thin  slices;  put  it  into  2  gallons  of  rain  or  soft  water,  and  when  nearly  dis- 
solved add  3  oz.  borax  and  2  lbs.  sal  soda;  stir  till  all  is  melted,  and  pour  into  a 
shallow  pan  or  large  tub;  when  nearly  cool  stir  in  slowly  1  oz.  liquid  ammonia, 
mixing  it  well.  Let  stand  1  or  2  days,  cut  into  cakes  or  bars,  and  dry  in  a  warm 
place.  It  can  be  made  for  3  cents  a  lb.,  and  in  less  than  %  hour,  and  is  good  for 
all  household  purposes.     This  recipe  has  often  sold  for  $5. 

Soap  No.  2. — In  3  pints  cold  water  dissolve  a  1  lb.  box  of  pulverized  lye;  melt 
5%  lbs.  of  clean  grease,  and  strain  it  through  cheese  cloth;  when  the  lye- water 
is  cool,  and  the  grease  cool  enough  to  bear  the  hand,  pour  together  and  stir 
thoroughly  until  thickened.  Pour  into  a  box  or  dripping  pan  lined  with  greased 
paper,  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  24  hours;  then  cut  into  bars.     Good. 

Soft  Soap. — Where  lye  is  not  readily  made  from  wood  ashes  commercial 
potash  is  used.  Dissolve  8  lbs.  potash,  broken  small,  in  an  iron  kettle  containing 
about  12  quarts  of  boiling  water;  melt  the  same  weight  of  clarified  fat  in  another 
iron  kettle;  into  a  clean  barrel  put  3  or  4  gallons  of  hot  soft  water,  and  then  put 
in  alternately  a  ladleful  each  of  fat  and  lye,  stirring  it  well  each  time  to  mix  it 


THE  LAUNDRY.  519 

thoroughly;  when  it  is  all  in,  fill  the  barrel  with  hot  water,  stirring  it  in  a  ladle- 
f  ul  at  a  time,  and  then  stir  till  it  is  all  creamy.  Now  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  for 
12  or  13  weeks,  and  it  can  then  be  used,  making  good  soft  soap. 

Substitute  for  Soft  Soap. — Put  thin  shavings  of  hard  soap  in  water,  simmer 
slowly  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  and  remove  from  the  stove  while  very  thin;  if 
just  right  it  will  be  of  the  consistency  of  thick  soft  soap,  is  excellent  for  laundry 
purposes,  and  can  be  used  by  those  whose  hands  are  roughened  by  soft  soap. 

Soap  Bark. — This  is  not  appreciated  by  most  women.  It  can  be  bought  at 
any  drug  store,  and  is  one  of  the  best  cleaning  materials  known  and  is  suitable 
for  almost  any  dark  colored  cloth;  but  it  is  liable  to  stain  delicate  colors,  as  it 
contains  a  little  color  itself.  To  prepare  it  for  use;  pour  1  quart  of  boiling  water 
over  about  5  cents  worth  of  the  bark,  let  it  boil  gently  2  hours,  strain  it  through 
cheese  cloth,  and  it  can  be  used  at  once,  or  bottled  for  future  use.  Sponge  out 
grease  spots,  etc.,  with  it,  and  then  sponge  or  rinse  with  clean  water.  Its  cleans- 
ing power  comes  from  the  vegetable  principle  saponine  which  it  contains. 

About  Soaps.— The  fats  of  which  soaps  are  made  are  composed  of  fatty  acids  combined 
with  glycerides.  When  boiled  with  an  alkali  the  fatty  acids  unite  with  the  alkali  and  form 
a  compound  called  soap,  and  the  glycerine  is  set  free.  In  soap  factories  this  glycerine  is 
saved  and  sold,  and  the  glycerine  of  commerce  comes  largely  fro  en  soap  factories,  which 
obtain  it  in  ihis  way.  The  soap  owes  its  cleansing  power  to  its  ready  solubility  in  water, 
and  the  fact  that  its  alkali  will  then  readily  unite  with  the  greasy  matters  which  usually 
constitute  "dirtiness,"  and  they  will  then  be  soluble  in  water,  so  that  the  cleansing  power  of 
soap  depends  on  the  amount  of  alkali  which  it  contains.  Pure  alkali  would  be  injurious 
to  both  the  skin  and  the  fabric,  but  it  is  milder  in  its  action  when  combined  with  the  fatty 
acids  (forming  soap)  although  retaining  its  cleansing  properties.  Soft  soaps  are  made  with 
potash,  and  hard  soaps  with  soda.  The  cleansing  power  of  soft  soap  results  from  its  excess 
of  alkali.  Curd  soap  is  the  purest  soap  of  commerce.  It  is  made  of  tallow,  with  a  little 
olive  oil  to  impart  softness.  It  enters  into  the  composition  of  many  fancy  soaps.  Windsor 
soap  (when  genuine)  is  made  with  olive  oil  and  tallow.  Castile  soap  is  made  of  soda,  olive 
oil  and  water.  When  marbled,  a  little  sulphate  of  iron  and  sulphuretted  lye  are  added. 
Carbolic  soap  contains  some  carbolic  acid,  and  possesses  some  disinfecting  power.  Cheap 
soaps  are  often  "loaded"  with  terra  alba  (white  earth),  resin,  etc.  The  latter,  although  it 
makes  soap  "lather"  profusely,  does  not  increase  its  cleansing  properties,  and  is  used  as 
an  adulterant. 

Soap  is  best  purchased  in  quantities  and  allowed  to  dry,  as  it  then  wears  much  longer. 
If  dried  too  fast  it  will  crack  and  break.  The  best  way  to  cut  cakes  of  soap  in  two  is  with 
strong  thread  or  small  twine,  drawing  it  a<  ross  and  pressing  it  on  the  cake.  It  cuts  it 
better  than- a  knife,  but  a  knife  must  be  used  to  shave  soap. 

Hyposulphite  of  Soda. — This  is  a  colorless  transparent  salt,  and  is  sometimes  recommen- 
ded for  use  instead  of  washing  soda.  It  possesses  peculiar  bleaching  properties,  and  for 
fabrics  bleached  with  chlorine  it  is  used  as  a  dechlorizing  agent.  If  used  in  washing  linen 
and  cotton  their  appearance  is  much  improved. 

Rinsing. — The  great  object  in  rinsing  clothes  is  to  extract  the  soap,  and  they 
should  be  thoroughly  rinsed  until  all  the  suds  is  removed.  The  water  they  are 
first  rinsed  in  should  be  hot,  as  that  extracts  the  soap  much  better  than  cold 
water  ever  will.  If  the  soap  is  not  all  extracted  it  will  combine  with  the  bluing 
and  give  a  yellow  tinge  to  the  clothes.  On  being  taken  from  the  rinsing  water 
the  articles  are  wrung  out,  and  those  to  be  starched  are  put  in  one  basket  (it  is  a 
good  idea  to  first  spread  a  large,  clean  cloth  in  it);  the  others  are  put  in  another 
basket  and  hung  out  to  dry  at  once. 

Bluing. — The  amount  of  bluing  used  should  be  merely  enough  to  overcome 
the  yellow  tinge.  Put  enough  in  the  water  to  give  it  a  pale  blue  color  when  a  little 
is  held  up  in  the  hollow  of  the  hand,  though  some  laundresses  use  more  than  oth- 
ers. Never  let  clothes  lie  in  the  bluing  water;  take  1  article  at  a  time,  dip  it  in 
once  or  twice,  and  wring  it  out,  and  so  continue  until  all  are  done.  Add  a  little 
blue  from  time  to  timeT;o  keep  up  the  shade. 

White  goods,  by  the  constant  application  of  soap,  and  from  other  causes  in  the  course  of 
wear,  manifest  a  tendency  to  turn  yellow.  The  use  of  bluing  is  merely  to  overcome  this 
and  i  ncrease  the  apparent  whiten  ess.  For  a  good  bluin  g :  (1)  Buy  5  cents  worth  of  indigo  blue 
at  the  drug  store,  powder  and  put  it  in  a  quart  bottle,  and  fill  it  with  clear  rain  water.  (2) 
A  ball  blue  can  be  formed  by  mixing  finely-powdered  indigo  with  an  equal  amount  of  starch, 
or  less  if  a  very  deep  color  is  desired;  then  make  it  into  a  paste  with  warm  water,  and  form 
it  into  small  lumps  or  cakes.  (3)  In  10  oz.  water  dissolve  1  oz.  indigo-carmine  and  y2  oz.  gum 
arable. 

Clothes  wringers  should  be  oiled  carefully  every  week.  Keep  a  little  oil-can  filled 
with  machine  oil  for  this  purpose.  Clothes  will  run  through  easily  when  the  wringer  is  well 
oiled ;  but  otherwise  it  will  go  hard  and  waste  the  strength.  If  color  gathers  on  the  rubber 
rollers  it  can  be  taken  off  by  washing  them  with  a  small  cloth  wet  with  kerosene  oil,  and 
then  with  soapsuds. 

Drying  Clothes. — Before  hanging  clothes  out  to  dry  fold  them  to  remove  the 
creases  of  the  wringer,  and  they  will  dry  much  better.    Pocket-handkerchiefs 


520  tfHE  LAUNDRY. 

should  be  folded  double  and  hung  up,  3  or  4  above  each  other,  taken  down  when 
half  dry,  rolled  up  tightly,  clapped,  and  they  are  ready  to  iron.  Table  linen  is 
treated  the  same  way,  taken  down  when  very  damp,  carefully  folded  ready  to 
mangle  first,  to  give  it  a  fine  gloss,  and  afterwards  ironed.  Body  linen  is  dried 
much  more;  if  too  dry  it  must  be  sprinkled  with  clean  water  very  slightly,  and 
rolled  up  for  ironing  or  starching.  Never  allow  articles  to  be  pegged  singly  to 
the  lines  on  a  windy  day;  let  them  be  doubled,  or  even  quadrupled,  and  much 
trouble  from  dilapidated  corners  will  be  saved.  Never,  except  in  fine  hot  weather, 
dry  starched  articles  out  of  doors,  or  they  will  lose  half  their  stiffness.  If  the 
clothes  are  dried  in  the  house  try  and  manage  so  that  they  dry  mainly  during  the 
night,  when  the  laundress  is  out  of  the  room,  as  the  moist  heated  room  is  quite 
injurious. 

Grass  bleaching  is  the  best  way  to  whiten  clothes  that  have  got  yellow  from  any  cause. 
Spread  them  out  on  the  grass,  and  if  the  sun  is  very  hot,  sprinkle  them  2  or  3  times  with 
water  from  the  nose  of  a  watering  pot.  It  is  best  to  take  up  the  clothes  every  night  and 
put  them  in  a  tub  of  cold  water.  The  sun  and  air  have  a  magical  effect  in  whitening  linen. 
After  bleaching,  they  can  be  rinsed,  blued,  and  done  up. 

Clothes  Lines  and  Clothes  Pins. — A  galvanized  wire  clothes  line  is  the  best  to 
use,  as  it  need  not  be  taken  down,  and  there  is  no  danger  that  it  will  break. 
Always  pass  a  clean  damp  cloth  along  a  clothes  line  to  free  it  from  dust,  before 
hanging  the  clothes  on  it. 

Wooden  clothes  pins  are  the  best  to  use.  A  clothes-pin  apron,  made  by  facing 
a  large  square  piece  of  cloth  on  the  outside  for  a  pocket,  is  much  more  convenient 
than  a  basket,  as  it  allows  free  use  of  the  hands.  Clothes  pins  will  be  more  dura- 
ble if  boiled  a  few  minutes  and  dried  quickly  once  a  month  or  so. 

Folding  Clothes. — Clothes  are  best  folded  the  night  before  ironing  day,  as  there 
is  then  time  to  attend  to  all  the  little  details.  Skilful  sprinkling  makes  ironing 
much  easier.  The  water  should  be  sprinkled  on  very  evenly,  not  in  great  spots 
here  and  there.  The  quickest  way  is  to  take  the  articles  as  they  come,  without 
sorting  them  at  all;  sprinkle  the  first  thing  that  comes  to  hand,  then  the  next, 
and  lay  it  on  top,  and  so  on  until  a  pile  is  made;  then  push  it  away  and  make 
another,  and  so  on.  A  small  wisp  broom,  kept  for  that  purpose,  makes  one  of  the 
best  things  with  which  to  sprinkle  clothes,  as  it  scatters  the  water  on  evenly. 
When  all  are  sprinkled,  turn  the  first  pile  over,  and  carefully  smooth  and  fold 
the  garments,  putting  the  different  kinds  together  as  far  as  possible.  Roll  up 
thin  fabrics  in  muslin  or  a  coarse  towel  to  keep  the  outside  from  drying.  Fold 
handkerchiefs  and  napkins  but  once,  pull  straight,  lay  them  on  top  of  one 
another,  and  roll  up  tightly  in  muslin.  Roll  towels  the  same  way,  but  snap  out 
the  fringe  before  rolling,  having  it  quite  damp,  as  otherwise  it  is  soon  broken  and 
worn  off.  Put  the  starched  clothes  by  themselves,  and  do  not  turn  them  until 
just  before  ironing,  The  moisture  is  retained  in  the  finer  clothes  by  putting  the 
sheets,  etc.,  at  the  top  of  the  basket.  A  thick  cloth  spread  over  the  basket  will 
keep  it  from  drying. 

Starching  Clothes. — For  boiled  starch  use  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  good  starch 
to  each  pint  of  water.  To  make:  Wet  2  tablespoons  of  starch  with  8  table- 
spoons of  cold  water,  mixing  it  to  a  smooth  paste;  then  add  slowly,  stirring  all 
the  time,  2  pints  boiling  water;  then  boil  it  (not  simmer)  15  to  20  minutes,  stir- 
ring it  frequently  (do  not  let  it  burn),  and  then  strain  it  while  hot  through 
cheese  cloth  (it  will  have  to  be  squeezed  through).  It  should  be  used  hot,  and 
when  you  thin  it  use  hot  water. 

To  starch  shirts  or  collars,  wet  the  bosom,  cuffs  and  collars;  wring  very  dry, 
and  starch  while  damp;  rub  in  the  starch  well  so  as  to  have  it  go  clear  through, 
wring  them  in  a  dry  towel,  wipe  off  all  starch  left  on  the  outside,  spread  out 
evenly,  rub  down  with  a  damp  cloth,  roll  tightly  together,  let  them  lie  2  or  3 
hours,  and  iron.  If  a  blister  appears  when  ironing,  damped  the  finger  and 
moisten  it  clear  through;  it  will  then  iron  out  if  the  starch  goes  clear  through, 
but  not  otherwise. 

Use  thin  starch  for  dresses,  aprons  and  children's  clothing,  and  have  it  rather 
thin  for  skirts;  for  table  linen  have  only  the  thinest  kind  imaginable.  To  make 
clothes  very  stiff  starch  them  and  dry;  then  starch  them  again  and  dry.  This 
will  make  them  very  stiff  and  they  will  iron  easily;  it  is  better  than  to  have  the 
starch  very  stiff. 


THE  LAUNDRY.  521 

To  prevent  a  crust  from  forming  over  starch,  put  a  close  cover  over  it  as  soon 
as  made. 

There  are  hardly  any  2  laundresses  who  proceed  exactly  alike  in  starching  and  ironing, 
and  in  hardly  any  department  of  housework  is  practice  more  essential  to  make  perfect. 
Borax,  salt,  gum  arabic,  kerosene,  hutter,  lard,  white  wax,  soap,  spermaceti  and  turpentine 
are  all  used  By  laundresses  to  mix  with  starch  to  give  a  gloss  to  the  linen  and  prevent  the 
iron  from  sticking.  We  prefer  kerosene  (1  teaspoon  to  a  quart  of  starch),  and  for  snirts  and 
collars  a  little  sperm  or  white  wax  also.  Some  use  1  teaspoon  of  strained  gum  arabic  water 
to  a  pint  of  starch,  and  there  are  numberless  combinations,  like  salt  and  lard,  sperm  and 
borax,  etc.,  advocated  and  vouched  for  by  different  laundresses.  Any  of  the  prepa- 
rations liked  best  can  be  added  to  the  clear  starch  given  above,  to  give  a  gloss. 

"  Cold  Starching ." — This  is  not  as  much  used  as  "  hot  starching."  To  pre- 
pare cold  starch  allow  4  oz.  starch  to  1  quart  of  water;  pour  on  a  little  water 
first,  and  let  it  stand,  as  it  takes  some  time  to  dissolve;  then  add  the  rest,  stirring 
all  the  time;  strain  through  a  muslin  bag,  and  use.  This  wCuld  be  thick,  and 
would  need  diluting  for  many  articles.  A  little  borax  and  soap  are  sometimes 
added.  Articles  dipped  in  cold  starch  need  no  damping.  They  can  be  rolled  up 
smoothly  and  ironed  in  about  10  minutes;  if  they  get  dry  from  being  left  too 
long  they  must  be  dipped  in  again. 

Flour  Starch. — Mix  3  level  tablespoons  of  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little 
cold  water;  then  add,  stirring  constantly,  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  hard 
%  hour,  stirring  frequently;  then  strain  through  thin  cloth  and  use.  Many 
people  use  this  for  common  calicoes. 

Coffee  Starch. — Make  starch  the  usual  way  and  add  enough  perfectly  clear 
coffee  to  color  it  (about  2  cups);  then  strain  it  and  add  a  piece  of  spermaceti  the 
size  of  a  pea.     Use  this  starch  for  dark  colored  calicoes,  muslins  or  percales. 

Ironing. — In  ironing  it  is  a  good  idea  to  begin  with  some  of  the  plain  pieces 
like  sheets  and  pillow  cases  which  will  get  the  irons  in  good  condition  for  the 
starched  articles;  then  iron  the  starched  clothes,  and  then  finish  the  plain  pieces. 
Iron  starched  clothes  until  they  are  perfectly  dry;  they  should  be  made  very 
damp,  but  damp  the  other  clothes  but  little.  Iron  dresses  on  the  wrong  side 
first,  and  finish  on  the  right.  Fine  muslins  are  best  ironed  twice  in  opposite 
directions.    Always  iron  laces  and  embroideries  by  the  thread  of  the  material. 

To  iron  a  shirt  use  heavy,  well  heated  irons.  Lay  the  back  of  the  sleeve 
smoothly  on  the  table,  and  iron  each  side;  then  iron  the  wrist  band,  first  the 
wrong  side  and  then  the  right  side.  Next  iron  the  shoulder  strap,  then  the  neck 
band  or  collar.  Now  double  the  back  of  the  shirt  and  iron  it  on  both  sides; 
spread  the  shirt  out  and  iron  all  the  front  except  the  bosom.  Now  comes  the 
bosom.  If  the  ironing  board  is  covered  with  woolen  it  will  not  stick  to  it.  Lay 
on  a  thin  cloth  the  first  time  the  iron  is  passed  over  it;  remove  it,  rub  it  with 
a  damp  cloth,  and  iron  until  the  finish  is  satisfactory.  A  smooth,  round-edged 
iron  should  be  used  to  gloss  it.  Then  hang  up  to  dry  well,  fold  neatly,  and  put 
away. 

To  iron  a  collar  or  cuff  place  it  evenly  on  the  table  with  the  wrong  side  up, 
iron  it  lightly,  turn  it  over  and  iron  the  other  side,  lightly  first,  more  heavily 
next,  and  then  very  heavily  and  smoothly,  polishing  it  well  at  last.  Then  curl  up 
and  put  aside  to  get  firm  and  dry. 

Flat-irons  which  are  rough  or  rusty  can  be  cleaned  by  putting  a  little  salt  on 
a  piece  of  brown  paper  and  rubbing  the  hot  iron  in  it;  then  rub  the  bottom  of 
the  iron  with  a  little  piece  of  beeswax  tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin  and  it  will  make 
it  smooth.  It  is  a  good  idea  to  rub  each  iron,  before  putting  it  back  on  the  stove, 
on  brickdust,  sandpaper  or  salt,  so  that  no  starch  may  remain  to  be  burnt  on. 
Flat-iron  holders  should  not  be  any  thicker  than  necessary  to  protect  the  hand, 
as  it  is  tiresome  reaching  around  one  too  thick.  It  is  a  good  idea  to  keep  3  or  4  on 
hand;  a  piece  of  leather  from  an  old  boot  top  inserted  in  the  holder  protects  the 
hand  well  from  the  heat.  Take  irons  from  the  stove  and  put  them  away  as  soon 
as  the  ironing  is  done;  they  are  injured  by  being  left  on  the  stove.  Always  wipe 
irons  thoroughly  on  taking  them  from  the  stove. 

Enamels  for  Shirt  Bosoms. — There  are  many  ''enamels"  in  use  and  each  laun- 
dress can  make  for  herself  the  one  she  likes  best.  We  give  a  few.  (1)  Take  2 
parts  spermaceti  andl  part  white  wax;  heat  moderately  until  they  are  melted 
together.  To  use,  add  a  piece  of  this  mixture  (enamel),  the  size  of  a  walnut,  to 
each  quart  of  starch.    (2)  Put  in  a  cup  and  melt  slowly  %  oz.  white  wax,  %  oz. 

32 


522  THE  LAUNDRY. 

spermaceti,  2  oz.  hard  stearine,  and  2J£  oz.  paraffine;  then  let  it  cool.  Rub  it 
over  the  article  just  before  ironing.  (3)  Mix  8  oz.  paraffine,  %  oz.  kerosene,  % 
oz.  glycerine.    Any  of  the  foregoing  enamels  will  produce  good  results. 

Scorches,  to  Remove.— (1)  For  linen,  take  the  juice  of  2  onions,  2  oz.  fuller's 
earth,  ^  oz.  of  white  soap,  %  P*1^  °f  vinegar;  boil  all  together,  and,  when  cold, 
spread  on  the  spot;  let  dry,  and  then  wash.  (2)  For  white  goods,  dip  linen  clothes 
in  chlorine  water,  and  rub  well  on.  For  cotton  goods  re-dye  if  possible,  or  on 
woolen  raise  a  fresh  surface.  On  silks,  all  efforts  are  nearly  useless.  (3)  For 
linen,  mis  the  juice  of  2  onions  and  %  oz-  °f  white  soap,  and  spread  it  on.  See 
also  "Spots  and  Stains." 

Yellowed  clothes  can  be  whitened  by  soaking  them  in  buttermilk;  then  wash 
them  with  soap  in  lukewarm  water,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  dry  them.  Repeat 
if  necessary.  Soak  coarse  articles  longer  than  fine  ones,  and  for  very  fine  articles 
do  not  have  the  buttermilk  too  sour. 

A  Useful  Hint.. — Always  moisten  with  the  tongue, on  the  wrong  side,  the  but- 
ton holes  of  starched  collars,  cuffs  and  shirts,  just  before  attempting  to  button 
them,  or  put  in  cuff  buttons.  That  will  soften  the  starch  slightly  so  that  they 
will  button  easily,  and  the  button  holes  will  never  teaf  out.  Try  it  once,  and 
you  will  always  do  it  afterwards. 

Washing  Flannels. — The  great  difficulty  in  washing  flannels,  blankets,  and 
all  woolen  goods  is  caused  by  the  nature  of  the  material.  The  fibres  of  the  wool 
contain  numberless  little  hooks,  which,  with  rubbing  and  change  of  temperature 
become  knotted  together,  causing  a  shrinkage  and  thickening  of  the  fabric. 
There  are  3  things  to  avoid  in  washing  flannels.  (1)  Do  not  change  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  water  used  from  beginning  to  end,  as  it  hardens  the  goods  to  take 
them  from  hot  to  cold  water.  (2)  Never  rub  flannels  as  linen  articles  are  rubbed 
as  that  causes  the  fabrics  to  knot  together.  Sop  the  articles  up  and  down  in 
the  water  and  pull  through  the  hands,  and  after  each  water  squeeze  as  dry  as 
possible  with  the  hands,  as  the  wringer  may  tend  to  make  them  harsh.  (3)  Never 
rub  soap  on  flannels.  Make  a  suds  of  lukewarm  water  (do  not  have  the  water 
so  hot  but  what  the  hand  can  be  held  in  it  comfortably),  and  add  1  tablespoon  of 
borax  for  each  pail  of  water,  as  there  is  nothing  better  for  flannels  (at  least  for 
white  ones)  than  borax.  After  washing,  rinsing,  and  wringing  as  above  directed, 
shake  and  pull  the  flannel  into  its  original  shape  and  hang  it  out  to  dry,  in  a 
current  of  air  if  possible.  All  flannel  goods  should  dry  as  quickly  as  possible;  if  the 
weather  is  cloudy  or  gloomy  it  is  better  to  dry  them  indoors.  Take  them  in  be- 
fore they  are  quite  dry,  pull,  fold  them  as  evenly  as  possible,  roll  up  tightly  in  a  clean 
towel  or  cloth,  and  leave  a  short  time.  If  left  to  long  they  will  shrink,  so  that  it 
is  better  to  iron  them  the  same  day  if  possible.  Iron  them  until  they  are  quite  dry, 
with  irons  which  are  not  very  hot.  Flannels  and  blankets  treated  thus  will  re- 
main soft  and  white  until  they  are  worn  out.  It  is  not  best  to  use  bluing  in  the 
rinsing  water  for  flannels. 

Never  wash  colored  flannels  with  white  ones.  If  the  water  is  not  too  dirty 
they  can  be  washed  in  the  same  suds  after  the  white  ones;  otherwise  prepare  a 
separate  suds  for  them.  Never  boil  flannels.  If  the  dye  is  inferior  and  the  color 
runs,  dissolve  a  handful  of  salt  in  the  first  water  used. 

Shrinking  Flannel. — Flannels  can  be  shrunk  before  being  made  up,  by  soak- 
ing them  first  in  cold  and  then  in  hot  water. 

Washing  Infant's  Clothing. — This  should  never  be  made  too  stiff,  as  infants 
are  often  caused  much  suffering  by  carelessness  in  this  regard.  The  skirts  of 
robes  and  long  petticoats  may  be  more  stiff  than  the  bodices,  as  it  helps  them  to 
hold  their  freshness  longer,  but  the  bodices  themselves  should,  at  the  most,  be 
wrung  only  out  of  water  starch,  and  the  bibs  which  come  directly  under  the  chin 
must  have  none  at  all.  Trimmings  of  little  skirts  which  should  be  of  the  softest 
lace  must  never  be  starched;  they  look  pretty  starched,  of  course,  but  beauty 
should  be  sacrificed  to  the  little  wearer's  comfort.  Flannels  unless  carefully 
handled  soon  become  shrunken  and  discolored.  When  laid  aside,  if  wet,  they 
should  be  plunged  at  once  into  a  tub  of  cold  soft  water,  without  soap  or  soda, 
and  left  to  soak  a  few  minutes,  then  wrung  out  and  dried  gradually;  or  they  can 
be  sent  to  the  laundry  where,  after  this  preliminary  soaking  they  can  be  treated 
as  ordinary  flannel. 

Washing  Stockings. — (1)  Wash  black  stockings  in  strong  salt  water;  then  dry 


THE  LAUNDRY.  523 

them  and  wash  again  in  another  brine,  finishing  in  clear  water.  If  properly  done 
the  dye  will  not  rub  off.  (2)  Before  being  worn  soak  black  stockings,  both  cotton 
and  woolen,  in  cold  water  over  night;  the  next  day  wash  in  2  tepid  waters,  mak- 
ing a  lather  with  soap  before  putting  in  the  stockings,  and  adding  1  tablespoon  of 
ox-gall  to  the  first  water;  then  rinse,  in  lukewarm  water  first,  until  the  dye  ceases 
to  come  out;  then  stretch  them  and  dry  in  the  shade  as  fast  as  possible.  After 
once  washing  in  ox-gall,  borax  will  answer  for  future  washings;  use  little  soap. 
Do  not  leave  the  stockings  long  in  any  water.  (3)  Wash  colored  stockings  in  a 
lather  in  which  a  little  alum  is  dissolved;  do  not  rub  soap  on  them,  put  them 
through  2  waters,  and  rinse  in  2  more.  A  little  vinegar  or  salt  in  the  rinsing 
water  will  help  to  fasten  and  brighten  the  colors.  Turn  striped  stockings  inside 
out  to  dry,  which  will  keep  the  color  from  running  on  the  right  side.  (3)  Wash 
black  thread  stockings  in  ox-gall;  then  rinse  in  vinegar  and  water. 

Cleaning  Silks. — Wash  silk,  or  anything  containing  silk,  in  cool  water;  it  is 
turned  yellow  by  boiling  water.  Never  let  soap  touch  it,  but  a  suds  prepared  with 
good  soap  can  be  used.  Iron  it  between  folds  of  linen;  but  do  not  let  the  irons 
touch  the  silk.  Do  not  have  the  irons  too  hot.  It  turns  dark  if  ironed  wet,  or 
even  if  very  damp. 

Pongee  silk  can  be  washed  in  a  warm  suds  of  soap;  rinse  well,  and  pass 
through  a  wringer,  but  do  not  twist  or  wring  with  the  hands.  Iron  when  quite 
dry  with  a  quite  hot  iron,  laying  it  between  2  damp  pieces  of  muslin.  Never  boil 
or  scald  it.  The  reason  it  turns  dark,  as  ordinarily  washed,  is  because  it  is  ironed 
wet;  the  hot  iron  turns  the  water  to  steam,  and  that  scalds  and  darkens  it.  A  silk 
which  has  changed  color  in  washing  can  be  partly  restored  by  washing  again  as 
above  directed.  If  a  silk  comes  from  the  laundress  covered  with  dark  spots,  it 
is  because  it  was  allowed  to  dry  and  then  sprinkled,  and  the  sprinkling  shows; 
to  remedy  this,  put  it  in  water,  dry  it,  and  iron  it  when  quite  dry. 

Black  silk  if  not  very  dirty  can  be  freshened  by  sponging  it  with  weak  borax  or 
alcohol;  if  very  dirty  sponge  with  a  decoction  of  soap  bark  and  water;  then  hang 
out  to  dry.  Iron  it  when  dry,  between  2  pieces  of  damp  muslin.  It  can  also  be 
sponged  with  cold,  strong  tea,  in  which  a  little  hartshorn  has  been  put. 

Black  silk  is  renovated  by  using  a  weak  solution  of  coffee  water.  This  is  the 
French  process.  Do  not  wet  the  silk  too  much,  and  rub  afterwards  with  a  soft 
handkerchief  to  restore  the  luster. 

White  or  light  colored  silk  of  any  kind  can  be  cleaned  (1)  by  rubbing  them 
with  slightly  moistened  cornmeal;  lay  the  silk  flat  on  a  clean  blanket,  and  treat 
both  sides.  (2)  Rub  with  a  dry  powder  composed  of  fine  starch  and  a  little  laun- 
dry blue;  then  dust  thoroughly.  (3)  Pink  or  cream  colored  silks  can  be  cleaned 
by  rubbing  them  with  bread  crumbs  or  chalk. 

Old  silks  of  any  color  can  be  cleaned  with  alcohol;  on  1  tablespoon  of  whisky 
or  gin  pour  2  cups  boiling  water;  when  cool  sponge  the  silk  with  it. 

To  Renovate  Silk. — Potato  water  is  good  to  clean  all  kinds.  Grate  the  potatoes 
into  cold  spring  water,  say  a  large  potato  to  each  quart  of  water;  5  or  6  will  do 
for  a  couple  of  dresses.  If  for  very  light  silk,  pare  the  potatoes;  if  for  dark,  merely 
wash  them  clean.  The  pan  of  water  must  not  be  stirred  in  the  least  for  48  hours; 
then,  very  steadily  and  slowly,  pour  off  the  clear  liquor  (but  not  a  particle  of  the 
sediment)  into  a  large  open  vessel;  dip  the  pieces  of  silk  into  this  liquid  up  and 
down  a  few  times,  without  creasing  them;  then  wipe  them  on  a  flat  table,  with  a 
clean  towel,  first  one  side,  then  the  other.  It  is  well  to  hang  each  one,  after  dip- 
ping it,  on  a  line,  to  allow  the  drops  to  drain  off  a  little  before  wiping.  Have  a 
damp  cloth  to  cover  them  with  till  all  are  done;  then  iron  one  way  on  the  soiled 
side. 

Potato  Wateb.— This  is  excellent  for  cleaning  cotton  or  woolen  goods  as  well  as  silk. 
It  can  be  made  a  little  stronger  than  the  above  (use,  say,  2  potatoes  to  1  pint  water)  and 
bottled  for  use  at  any  time.  The  coarse  pulp  left  after  pouring  off  the  clear  liquid  is  excel- 
lent for  cleaning  carpets,  curtains  and  other  thick  goods.  Few  people  understand  the 
value  of  potato  water;  it  is  one  of  the  best  things  there  is  for  light  colored  dresses,  and  no 
starching  is  necessary  when  it  is  used,  because  potatoes  contain  so  much  starch. 

Silk  handkerchiefs  should  be  first  soaked  10  minutes  or  more  in  cold  salt  and 
water;  then  wash  in  the  same  water;  iron,  when  nearly  dry,  between  folds  of  mus- 
lin. They  can  be  washed  in  a  cool  soap  lather  also,  but  never  rub  soap  on  them. 
The  reason  white  silk  handkerchiefs  turn  yellow  when  washed  is  because  they 
are  boiled,  or  ironed  wet. 


S24  THE  LAUNDRY. 

If  soda  has  been  spilled  on  black  silk  an  application  of  acetic  acid  will  usually 
restore  the  color. 

To  Remove  the  Shine  from  Black  Silk  or  Fine  Black  Diagonal. — Spread  the 
article  on  a  table  or  hard  surface  and  rub  the  shiny  place  with  a  sponge  wet  with 
good  cider  vinegar  until  the  shine  disappears;  then  hang  it  up  till  dry  in  a  shady 
place,  and  it  will  look  nearly  equal  to  new. 

To  Wash  Silk  Underclothing. — Add  1  tablespoon  of  liquid  ammonia  to  each 
gallon  of  warm  soft  water;  put  in  the  silk  garments  and  let  soak  %  to  %  hour; 
then  wash  them  with  the  hands,  rubbing  soap  only  on  those  places  which  are 
soiled  most  (never  resort  to  washboard  rubbing);  then  rinse  in  lukewarm  water, 
then  in  another,  wring  out  thoroughly,  and  hang  out  to  dry.  Take  them  in  before 
they  are  quite  dry,  fold,  let  lie  a  few  hours  only,  and  iron  (the  same  day  if  possi- 
ble). Cover  the  silk  with  a  piece  of  cloth  and  iron  over  that,  not  using  a  very  hot 
iron  and  never  letting  it  touch  the  silk. 

Chamois  skin  underclothes  are  now  sometimes  worn,  but  we  explain  elsewhere 
about  washing  them. 

Satin. — This  can  be  cleaned  (1)  with  benzine  if  greasy,  or  with  borax  water  or 
alcohol.  Always  sponge  it  lengthwise — never  across  the  width.  It  will  not  be 
injured  by  having  the  iron  come  in  contact  with  it,  but  press  it  on  the  wrong  side, 
(2)  Mix  2  parts  white  honey,  1  part  white  soap,  and  4  parts  whisky;  spread  the 
satin  on  a  clean  marble  slab,  bring  the  mixture  to  the  boiling  point,  and  apply  it 
while  hot  with  a  soft  brush.  Rinse  with  cold  water  till  it  runs  off  clear;  do  not 
wring,  but  put  it  between  2  linen  cloths  till  nearly  dry;  while  damp,  iron  with  a 
hot  iron.     It  will  look  like  new. 

Linen.— Grey  or  buff  linens  may  be  prevented  from  spotting  by  stirring  1 
tablespoon  of  black  pepper  into  the  first  water  in  which  they  are  washed. 

To  restore  linen  (1)  apply  a  large  handful  of  refined  borax  which  has  been 
diluted  with  2  gallons  of  boiling  water,  and  it  will  become  a  beautiful  white.  (2) 
If  linen  has  turned  yellow  take  1  gallon  of  milk,  put  in  1  lb.  white  soap,  shaved 
fine,  dissolve  it  over  the  fire,  and  then  put  in  the  linen,  and  boil  %  hour;  take  it 
out,  wash  it  in  a  lather  of  soap  and  water,  and  rinse  it  through  2  cold  waters, 
with  a  very  little  blue  in  the  last. 

Wine  stains  can  be  removed  from  linen  by  holding  them  in  milk  which  is  boil- 
ing on  the  fire;  many  other  stains  can  be  removed  the  same  way. 

To  remove  mildew  from  linen,  rub  on  soap,  scrape  chalk  on  thickly,  and  lay  in 
the  sun;  repeat  till  the  spots  disappear. 

To  Wash  Woolen  Goods.— Careful  experiment  has  established  the  following 
points:  (1)  The  liquid  used  for  washing  should  be  as  hot  as  possible.  (2)  For 
removing  greasy  dirt,  sweat,  etc.,  borax  is  useless.  The  best  thing  is  soap  lye 
and  ammonia  mixed.  This  dissolves  the  dirt,  raises  and  revives  the  colors,  and 
is  most  excellent.  (3)  For  white  woolens,  nothing  else  approaches  borax.  Soap 
lye  and  borax,  applied  boiling  hot,  give  white  woolens  a  beautiful  looseness  and 
dazzling  whiteness.  (4)  To  avoid  shrinkage,  press  the  woolens  repeatedly  between 
soft  cloths  to  hasten  the  drying.  They  are  best  dried  in  a  current  of  air,  and  in 
cold  weather  in  a  warm  place  not  too  near  the  stove.  Never  dry  them  in  the 
sun,  as  they  then  become  dry  and  hard. 

For  colored  woolens  put  on  the  stove  7  quarts  soft  water  and  add  2  oz.  best 
soft  soap  (the  strength  may  be  adapted  to  the  dirtiness  of  the  goods);  when  hot, 
and  properly  dissolved  and  stirred,  divide  into  2  vessels;  to  1  add  1  teaspoon  of 
ammonia  to  each  quart  of  the  solution,  and  while  it  is  very  hot  put  in  the  wool- 
ens; stir  and  press  them  with  smooth  wooden  stirrers,  as  the  hand  cannot  bear 
the  heat;  then  transfer  to  the  other  vessel,  to  which  no  ammonia  is  added,  which 
will  be  partly  cooled,  and  here  press  the  goods  with  the  hands,  but  do  not  wring 
or  twist  them ;  then  remove,  and  press  them  between  3  or  4  soft  dry  towels,  until 
these  no  longer  become  wet;  then  dry  quickly  in  a  current  of  air,  but  not  in  the 
sun. 

For  white  woolens  proceed  as  above,  but  instead  of  the  ammonia  add  1  tea- 
spoon of  powdered  borax  to  each  quart  of  the  mixture.  If  the  second  half  of  the 
solution  is  made  too'soapy,  it  may  be  diluted  with  a  little  hot  water. 

If  the  washing  is  large,  after  thus  washing  2  or  3  lots  of  woolens,  heat  the 
second  half  of  the  mixture  again,  add  borax  or  ammonia,  and  use  it  to  put  the 
goods  in  first,  preparing  a  fresh  solution  to  serve  as  the  second  to  which  the 


TUB  LAUNDRY.  §25 

goods  are  transferred;  that  which  was  before  used  as  the  first  solution  can  be 
put  away  to  settle.  If  you  wash  woolen  goods  thus  you  will  be  charmed  with  the 
results.    The  method  is  the  result  of  much  experiment. 

To  Clean  a  Woolen  Hood. — (1)  Use  gasoline;  dip  in  the  hood  and  squeeze 
(but  do  not  wring)  until  the  gasoline  looks  dirty;  then  dip  it  2  or  3  times  in  clean 
gasoline,  rub  it  between  the  hands,  and  when  clean  squeeze  as  dry  as  possible; 
then  hang  on  the  line,  or  shake  till  dry.  As  gasoline  is  very  explosive  never  use 
it  near  a  fire  or  lamp.  (2)  Rub  it  well  between  the  hands  with  dry  flour  or  corn- 
meal,  shake  well  in  the  open  air,  and  it  will  look  like  new. 

To  Clean  White  Woolen  Shawls  or  Soiled  Lace. — Put  them  in  a  steamer,  over 
a  kettle  of  strong  soapsuds,  and  steam  them  in  that  way. 

Dry  Cleaning  of  Flannel  and  Woolen. — Rub  it  well  with  dry  cornmeal  and  it 
will  look  fresh  and  clean;  white  and  light  colored  goods  may  be  cleaned  in 
this  way. 

Zephyr  shawls  and  other  goods  can  be  cleaned  thus,  with  either  cornmeal  or 
dry  flour. 

Washing  Lace. — Stitch  a  piece  of  muslin  firmly  around  a  bottle  or  piece  of  wood; 
baste  the  lace  to  this,  winding  it  around  the  bottle,  and  cover  with  thin  muslin ;  then 
let  it  soak  for  a  time  in  melted  soap  and  water,  and  then  pour  the  water  over  it  sev- 
eral times;  if  very  dirty  it  may  be  steamed  at  the  side  of  the  fire;  then  rinse  it 
well,  blue,  dip  in  the  water  in  which  a  little  rice  has  been  boiled,  and  leave  it  to 
dry.  When  unwound  from  the  bottle  it  has  only  to  be  picked  over  a  little,  and 
either  pressed  between  the  covers  of  a  book  or  ironed  with  a  very  cool  iron  on 
the  wrong  side. 

Colored  Silk  Lace. — This  should  be  first  soaked  for  an  hour  in  cold  soft 
water,  containing  a  teaspoon  of  salt  to  the  pint  of  water;  then  wash  it  in  a  cool 
lather  made  of  soft  water  and  good  soap,  like  curd  or  white  Windsor  (if  you  have 
no  soft  water  add  borax  to  the  lather),  squeeze  the  lace  through  this  several 
times  until  clean,  and  leave  it  in  for  a  time;  then  rinse  it  in  clear  water  contain- 
ing salt  as  at  first,  but  no  soap.  If  you  wish  to  stiffen  it,  rinse  it  in  a  weak  gum 
water  or  sugar  water.  Squeeze  it  as  dry  as  possible,  and  iron  it  on  the  wrong 
side  between  folds  of  clean  cloth. 

Lace  Curtains. — These  should  have  the  dust  shaken  from  them,  and  then 
put  them  into  lukewarm  soft  water  in  which  good  white  soap  has  been  dissolved. 
Wash  gently  with  the  hands,  changing  the  water  until  it  is  no  longer  clouded 
with  dirt;  rinse  them,  pass  through  the  bluing  water,  and  put  through  a  wringer 
or  squeeze  them  dry,  but  do  not  wring  by  twisting  with  the  hands.  Before 
washing  them  measure  the  length  and  width  of  the  curtains  and  as  soon  as  they 
are  starched  (use  boiled  starch,  and  have  it  blued  a  little)  pin  them  to  clean 
sheets  fastened  to  the  carpet  in  some  unused  room,  stretching  them  to  the  exact 
size  they  were  before  being  wet.  Do  not  iron  them,  but  dry  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble. Conduct  the  whole  process  quickly,  as  lace  shrinks  on  being  wet  a  long 
time.  Or  they  can  be  pinned  to  sheets  stretched  on  quilting  frames;  set  the  same 
as  for  quilting,  on  four  chairs  set  in  the  hot  sun.  Some  sew  up  their  curtains 
between  sheets,  and  boil  them  till  clean,  then  rinse,  blue,  starch,  and  dry  as  above 
directed. 

Many  professional  cleaners  boil  lace  curtains  until  clean,  in  acids  and  other  strong 
chemicals.  They  look  beautifully  when  sent  home,  but  their  texture  is  ruined  and  they 
soon  wear  out,  so  that  it  is  better  when  practicable  to  wash  them  at  home. 

To  Wash  Ecru  Lace  Curtains. — Put  5  drops  ox-gall  in  4  gallons  warm  soft 
water;  soak  the  curtains  in  this  ^  hour,  and  then  draw  them  through  the  hands 
a  few  times  so  that  all  parts  will  receive  the  same  friction;  rinse  in  another 
water  prepared  the  same  way,  and  run  them  through  a  wringer.  Dry  them 
pinned  to  sheets  fastened  to  the  carpet  as  directed  above.  When  dry,  fold  them 
down  the  center,  then  again  several  times,  and  put  them  for  2  days  under  a 
weight.     They  will  look  like  new. 

Thread  and  Valenciennes  Lace. — This  can  be  washed  by  letting  it  soak  well 
in  soft  water  in  which  castile  soap  is  dissolved;  sop  it  around  in  it  occasionally. 
When  well  washed,  pass  it  through  the  bluing  water  containing  a  little  gum 
arabic  to  stiffen  it.  Squeeze  lightly  with  the  hand,  but  do  not  twist  it,  and  pin 
it  on  a  stiff  cloth,  with  a  pin  in  each  loop,  and  dry  it  in  the  sun.  Do  not  iron  it. 
Valenciennes  can  be  tinted  by  rinsing  it  in  weak  coffee  instead  of  clear  water; 


§26  fafi  laundr£ 

have  a  little  gum  arabic  in  it  to  stiffen.  Saffron  water  can  be  prepared  by  pout- 
ing boiling  water  on  saffron;  by  regulating  its  strength  laces  can  be  dipped  in  it 
and.  tin  ted  any  shade  from  deep  yellow  to  pale  cream. 

To  Wash  Black  Lace. — Mix  bullock's  gall  with  sufficient  hot  water  to  make  it 
as  hot  as  you  can  bear  your  hand  in  it,  and  pass  the  lace  through  it;  it  must  be 
squeezed,  not  rubbed.  Rinse  through  2  cold  waters,  tinging  the  last  with  a  little 
blue.  After  drying,  put  it  into  some  stiffening  made  by  pouring  boiling  water  on 
a  very  small  piece  of  glue;  squeeze  out,  stretch  and  clap  it.  Afterwards,  pin  out 
on  a  linen  cloth  to  dry,  laying  it  very  straight  and  even,  and  taking  care  to  open 
and  pin  the  edge  very  nicely.  When  dry,  iron  on  the  wrong  side,  having  laid  a 
linen  cloth  over  the  ironing  board. 

To  Starch  Lace. — Use  a  very  thin  boiled  starch,  or  the  liquor  in  which  rice 
has  been  boiled.  Dip  the  lace  in  the  starch  and  squeeze  it  out.  Clap  between 
the  folds  of  a  towel  to  partially  dry  it.  It  is  always  ironed  on  the  wrong  side. 
Lay  it  on  the  table,  wrong  side  up,  and  slightly  picked  out,  and  place  a  piece  of 
muslin  over  it.  Rub  a  cool  iron  over  several  times  until  a  little  dry.  Take  it  up, 
and  with  the  fingers  pick  it  out  to  show  the  pattern  and  the  edge;  iron  again, 
pick  out  once  more,  carefully  draw  to  each  side  and  give  a  final  ironing.  The  iron 
must  be  very  cool,  or  the  lace  will  be  stiff;  moving  it  about  in  the  hands  and 
drawing  it  out  tends  to  make  it  flexible. 

To  Tint  Curtains  or  Laces. — Put  no  bluing  in  the  starch,  but  for  ecru  mix  the 
starch  with  water  tinted  with  coffee;  for  a  yellow  tint  use  saffron,  and  for  a  pink 
tint  use  a  decoction  of  logwood. 

To  Revive  Black  Lace. — (1)  Make  some  black  tea  about  the  strength  usual 
for  drinking,  and  strain  it  clear  from  all  leaves.  Put  the  lace  in  a  basin,  pour  on 
sufficient  tea  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  stand  10  or  12  hours;  then  squeeze  it  several 
times,  but  do  not  rub  it;  dip  it  frequently  into  the  tea,  which  will  at  length 
assume  a  dirty  appearance.  Have  ready  some  weak  gum  water,  and  press  the 
lace  gently  through  it;  then  clap  it  for  34  hour;  then  pin  it  upon  a  towel  in  any 
shape  you  wish  it  to  take.  When  nearly  dry,  cover  it  with  another  towel  and 
iron  it  with  a  cool  iron.  The  lace  will  now  look  as  good  as  new,  if  it  was  merely 
discolored  but  sound.  (2)  Wash  the  lace  thoroughly  in  some  good  beer;  use  no 
gum  water;  then  clap  the  lace,  and  dry  and  iron  as  in  the  previous  recipe. 

To  Clean  and  Renovate  Black  and  Colored  Veils. —  (1)  Use  whisky;  then 
stiffen  with  gum  arabic  water,  clap  between  the  hands,  and  lastly  iron  between 
2  moist  linen  cloths.  (2)  For  black  veils  take  1  pint  warm  water,  add  a  little  ox- 
gall, and  dip  the  veils  into  it;  rinse  them  in  cold  water.  Then  make  a  weak  size 
by  pouring  some  boiling  water  onto  a  small  piece  of  glue.  Into  this  hot  size  dip 
the  veils;  draw  them  out  quickly,  clap  them,  and  stretch  them  on  frames,  or  pin 
them  to  dry. 

To  Clean  Black  Lace. — Proceed  as  explained  for  cleaning  black  veils. 

Brussels  lace  should  be  kept  away  from  perfumes,  and  from  the  air. 

To  Wash  Ginghams,  Prints  and  Sateens. —To  wash  ginghams,  prints  and 
sateens  (but  not  light  cambrics)  proceed  as  follows:  Use  no  soap,  but  for  2  dresses 
mix  1  cup  flour  in  2  cups  cold  water;  then  add  3^  quarts  boiling  water  and  it 
will  make  1  gallon  of  flour  starch.  Into  a  tub  containing  4  gallons  of  warm  water 
put  2  quarts  of  this  starch;  then  put  in  1  of  the  dresses  and  wash  it,  rub- 
bing it  just  as  if  soap  was  used;  then  rinse  it  through  2  clean  waters,  wring  out 
and  hang  out  to  dry.  The  cloth  will  be  cleaned  by  the  starch,  and  will  retain 
enough  of  it  to  be  stiffened  sufficiently.  Then  wash  the  other  dress  the  same 
way.  Dry  colored  goods  thoroughly,  and  only  dampen  them  a  few  hours  before 
they  are  ironed.  Iron  them  on  the  wrong  side.  Put  %  CUP  °f  s&lt  in  the  last 
rinsing  water  if  the  colors  run.  If  the  color  is  blue  and  faded,  adding  to  the  last 
rinsing  water  4  tablespoons  of  vinegar  or  2  of  acetic  acid,  will  sometimes  restore 
it;  but  as  the  chemicals  used  in  the  dying  are  not  always  the  same,  it  will  not 
always  work  Do  not  let  the  fabrics  lie  in  the  water  but  wash  them  out 
quickly.  A  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  walnut  added  to  each  pint  of  starch  is 
sometimes  used  to  preserve  the  colors  of  ginghams  and  calicoes;  they  are  also 
sometimes  dipped  in  salt  and  water  before  being  put  into  the  washing  water,  to 
prevent  their  fading. 

To  Clean  Satins  or  Sarcinets. — (1)  Thoroughly  mix  4  oz.  of  soft  soap,  4  oz.  of 
honey,  the  white  of  1  egg,  and  a  wineglass  of  gin.    Scour  with  a  stiff  brush,  using 


THE  LAUNDRY.  527 

the  mixture;  when  clean,  rinse  with  cold  water.  Do  not  wring  the  satin,  but 
hang  it  up  for  a  while,  and  iron  it  while  still  damp.  (2)  Scatter  French  chalk 
over  them  and  brush  it  off  with  a  hand  brush  once  or  twice.  (3)  Sponge  on  the 
right  side  with  dilute  spirits  of  wine,  sponging  with  the  nap,  not  across  it.  Iron 
on  the  wrong  side,  while  damp,  placing  muslin  between  the  fabric  and  the  iron. 
Do  not  clean  at  home  satin  which  is  to  be  dyed.  (4)  Mix  sifted  stale  bread 
crumbs  and  powder  blue,  and  thoroughly  rub  it  all  over  the  satin;  then  shake 
well,  and  dust  it  with  clean  soft  cloths.  Then,  if  there  are  many  silver  or  gold 
flowers,  rub  them  with  a  piece  of  crimson  ingrain  velvet,  which  will  restore  them 
to  their  original  luster. 

To  Clean  Velvet,  Velveteens  or  Plush. — If  only  slightly  soiled  free  them  from 
dust  by  brushing,  and  then  sponge  them  with  benzine,  or  a  weak  solution  of 
borax  and  water.  If  much  soiled,  sop  them  up  and  down  in  benzine  to  which  a 
little  water  is  added;  then  brush  over  the  back  with  a  strong  solution  of  gum 
arabic  and  water;  this  stiffens  it  and  prevents  the  pile  from  loosening;  let  it  dry 
slowly  but  thoroughly,  and  then  brush  the  pile  smartly  until  it  stands  up,  and  in 
the  right  direction.  Thus  treated,  faded  and  greasy  dress  trimmings  may  be 
made  to  look  like  new. 

To  Wash  Colored  Muslins. — Use  a  lather  of  cold  water  and  soap;  if  they  are 
black,  put  in  a  little  salt;  if  green,  a  little  vinegar,  and  if  lilac,  a  small  quantity 
of  ammonia.    Do  not  use  warm  water  even  for  rinsing  them. 

Crape,  to  Restore. — Skimmed  milk  with  water,  with  a  little  bit  of  glue  in  it, 
made  scalding  hot,  is  excellent  to  retore  rusty  Italian  crape.  If  clapped  and 
pulled  dry  afterwards,  like  muslin,  it  will  look  as  good  as  new.  Or,  brush  the 
veil  till  all  the  dust  is  removed,  then  fold  it  lengthwise,  and  roll  it  smoothly  and 
tightly  on  a  roller,  steam  it  till  it  is  thoroughly  dampened,  and  dry  it  on  the 
roller. 

To  Make  Old  Crape  Look  Nearly  Equal  to  New. — Hold  it  in  both  hands,  and 
pass  it  backwards  and  forwards  several  times  through  the  steam  coming  from 
the  spout  of  a  violently  boiling  tea-kettle;  it  will  make  it  look  fresh  and  new. 

To  restore  black  crape  when  spotted  by  being  wet,  by  the  rain  or  otherwise, 
spread  it  out  on  the  table  with  a  piece  of  black  silk  underneath  the  spots;  then 
carefully  paint  over  the  stains  with  a  soft  camel's  hair  brush  dipped  in  black  ink; 
carefully  wipe  off  the  superfluous  ink  with  a  piece  of  black  silk;  when  dry,  the 
stains  will  be  gone. 

Crapes,  bombazines  and  mourning  goods  can  be  freed  from  stains  by  using 
a  solution  made  by  boiling  a  handful  of  fig  leaves  in  2  quarts  of  water  until  it  is 
reduced  to  1  pint. 

Black  Cashmere. — This  can  be  washed  in  borax  water;  rub  it  with  the  hands 
merely,  not  on  a  board.  Press  out  the  water,  but  do  not  twist  or  wring  it;  or 
fold  it  evenly  and  pass  it  through  a  wringer;  then  hang  out  to  dry.  Press  it  out 
when  dry. 

Black  Grenadine. — This  can  be  renovated  by  using  cold,  strong  coffee,  strained 
clear;  wring  it  out  tightly,  shake  well,  and  fold;  to  iron,  put  some  black  material 
under  it,  and  use  a  moderately  hot  iron. 

Nankeen. — (1)  Wash  nankeen  garments  with  moderately  hot  soap-water;  then 
boil  them,  rinse,  but  do  not  wring  them  out,  and  hang  up  to  dry,  inside  out,  in  a 
shady  place.  (2)  Let  1  oz.  of  green  tea  steep  in  the  necessary  amount  of  water  8 
or  10  minutes;  then,  while  hot,  pour  the  decoction  through  clean  linen  cloth  on 
to  the  nankeen  article;  let  stand  till  cold,  take  out,  but  do  not  wring  out,  and  dry 
it  in  the  shade. 

Washing  Chintz. — Wash  it  in  a  suds  of  the  best  soft  soap,  containing  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  to  the  quart;  rinse  quickly  in  water  containing 
a  little  salt  and  1%  tablespoons  of  vinegar  to  the  quart. 

To  Clean  Glazed  Chintz  Curtains. — Shake  off  the  loose  dust,  then  lightly 
brush  with  a  small  long  haired  furniture  brush;  then  wipe  it  closely  with  clean 
flannels,  and  rub  it  with  dry  bread.  If  properly  done  they  will  look  nearly  as 
well  as  at  first,  and  if  the  color  be  not  light  they  will  not  require  washing  for 
years;  fold  in  large  parcels  and  put  carefully  away.  While  up  they  should  be 
preserved  from  the  sun  and  air  as  much  as  possible — these  injure  delicate  colors; 
the  dust  may  be  blown  off  with  bellows.  Curtains  may  thus  be  kept  sufficiently 
clean  to  make  up  again  with  new  linings. 


528  THE  LAUNDRY. 

To  Clean  Chenille  Portieres  or  Curtains.— These  are  generally  sent  to  a  clean- 
ing establishment,  but  to  clean  at  home  get  5  or  6  gallons  of  gasoline  (worth 
about  15  cents  a  gallon),  cover  the  curtain  with  the  gasoline  in  a  washing  machine, 
if  you  have  one,  and  wash  about  10  minutes;  if  not,  put  it  in  an  ordinary  tub  and 
sop  the  curtain  up  and  down  in  it  till  well  cleaned;  then  squeeze  dry,  shake  well 
to  get  out  the  wrinkles,  and  hang  in  the  shade  to  dry.  Gasoline  is  very  inflam- 
mable, and  must  not  be  used  near  a  fire.  A  good  place  to  use  it  is  in  the  yard  on 
a  clear  day.  The  gasoline  can  be  allowed  to  stand  and  settle;  then  pour  off  the 
clear  part  and  keep  tightly  bottled  for  further  use.  It  will  not  injure  the  most 
delicate  colors,  and  can  be  used  to  clean  gloves,  white  shoes  or  silk.  The  curtains 
can  also  be  cleaned  by  using  equal  parts  of  boiling  water  and  benzine  instead  of 
the  pure  gasoline,  if  more  convenient. 

Faded  Hangings,  to  Restore. — Beat  out  the  dust  and  brush  them;  make  a  strong 
lather  with  castile  soap,  and  apply  with  a  hard  brush;  then  with  clean  water 
wash  off  the  lather,  and  then  wash  them  over  with  alum  water;  let  dry,  and  the 
colors  will  usually  be  restored. 

Gold  and  Silver  Embroidery  and  Fancy  Work. — This  should  not  be  cleaned 
with  alkaline  and  acid  solutions,  as  is  so  often  done — it  frequently  destroys  their 
beauty.    Use  instead,  spirits  of  wine,  either  alone  or  diluted  %  with  water. 

Bed-Ticks,  to  Clean. — Apply  poland  starch  by  rubbing  it  on  thick  with  a 
cloth;  place  it  in  the  sun;  when  dry,  rub  it  if  necessary.  The  soiled  part  will  be 
clean  as  new. 

Coat  Collars. — These  when  greasy,  may  be  cleaned  by  saturating  them  with 
benzine,  and  leaving  it  on  until  the  grease  is  out;  then  wash  off  with  soap  and 
water,  or  ammonia  and  water.  Gasoline  and  turpentine  also  cut  the  grease  read- 
ily. Another  way  is  to  apply  ammonia  with  a  sponge,  and  then  rub  well  with 
a  dry  cloth;  repeat  the  operation  until  the  collar  is  clean.  See  also  the  cleaning 
compounds  given  elsewhere. 

Bleaching. — (1)  Dissolve  1  lb.  of  chloride  of  lime  and  1  tablespoon  of  sal  soda 
in  soft  water;  put  in  30  yards  of  cotton  cloth,  leave  34  hour;  then  take  out  and 
rinse  thoroughly  in  soft  water,  as  the  solution  will  rot  it  if  not  all  removed.  (2) 
In  1  quart  of  soft  water  dissolve  3?£  lb.  chloride  of  lime;  bottle,  and  cork  closely. 
To  use,  dilute  what  is  needed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  water;  it  will  remove 
stains  from  table  linen  which  resists  milder  treatment.  (3)  Into  4  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water  put  6  cents  worth  of  oxalic  acid;  pour  it  over  the  clothes,  stirring  them 
up  well,  and  leave  till  the  water  is  cold;  then  spread  out  to  bleach  on  the  grass, 
and  they  will  soon  whiten.  Use  oxalic  acid  carefully  as  it  is  very  poisonous.  (4) 
Chloride  of  lime  acts  with  difficulty  on  animal  substances,  so  that  for  woolen  or 
mixed  goods,  after  washing  and  while  still  wet,  put  them  into  a  solution  of 
hyposulphite  of  soda,  and  let  them  soak  several  hours;  then  take  them  out  and 
put  them  into  a  solution  of  tartaric  acid,  which  should  be  ready  prepared;  keep 
the  vessel  well  covered,  as  the  action  of  the  acid  on  the  hyposulphite  develops 
sulphurous  acid,  which  bleaches  the  articles.  Then  wash  in  water  containing 
ammonia,  which  increases  their  whiteness. 

Setting  Colors. — Most  colored  fabrics  are  improved  by  soaking  them  for  some 
time  before  being  washed  in  a  solution  of  1  tablespoon  of  ox-gall  to  each  gallon 
of  soft  water.    Ox-gall  sets  any  color  in  cotton,  woolen  or  silk. 

French  linens  can  have  the  colors  preserved  by  putting  them  in  a  strong  clean 
tea  of  common  hay. 

Calicoes  with  blue  or  pink  colors  can  have  the  colors  set  by  putting  soda  in 
the  rinsing  water.  Vinegar  can  be  used  the  same  way  for  pink  or  green.  Salt 
is  good  for  all  colors  but  blue,  but  it  injures  that.  A  little  saltpetre  in  a  pail  of 
water  will  set  the  color  in  blue  cambric.  Soaking  calicoes,  cambrics  or  muslins 
for  2  hours  in  a  solution  of  1  oz.  of  sugar  of  lead  to  the  pail  of  water  is  good  for 
all  colors  but  blue.    Alum  water  is  used  for  setting  greens  and  blues. 

Black  goods  can  have  the  color  improved  by  putting  them  into  a  solution  of  1 
teacup  of  lye  to  a  pail  of  water.  Dark  hosiery,  cambrics,  etc.,  can  have  the 
colors  set  by  soaking  them  2  hours  in  a  pail  of  water  containing  1  tablespoon  of 
black  pepper. 

Scarlet  napkins,  red  table  cloths,  and  red-bordered  towels,  can  have  the  colors 
set  by  putting  borax  in  the  water  in  which  they  are  washed.  Putting  colored 
napkins  in  a  weak  lye  before  washing  them  sets  the  colors. 


Page. 

Acetic  acid 18 

Acids,  food  value  of 18 

Acid  stains - 499 

Adulterations  of  f  ood.402-406 

Air,  cooling  it  437 

impurities  in 437 

Ajo  bianco 399 

Alabaster 457 

Albumen 49,  95,  97 

stains  of  500 

Albumenoids,  the 15 

digestion  of 12 

in  milk 142 

Alcohol 498 

Alizarine  ink  stains 500 

Alkalies, action  ofonfood  13 

used  in  cooking 236 

Alkaline  stains 499 

All  about  theihouse.415  to  516 

Almack  cheese 315 

Almond  blanc  mange  266, 372 

cake 242 

coloring 257 

custard 267 

drops .....260 

extract  of 239 

macaroons 263 

pudding   217 

soup 65 

to  blanch,  etc 235 

to  buy. 34 

Allspice,  essence  of 239 

its  nature,  etc 34 

Altering  recipes 51 

Alum 510 

Aluminum  ware 417,  466 

Amber,  hints  about 454 

Ammonia 499 

Amnastich 400 

Anchovies 72 

Anchovy  sauce 86 

Angelica,  its  origin,,  etc . .  34 

Angel's  food  cake 247 

Aniline  stains 500 

Anise  drops  260 

Antiseptics,  to  check  de- 
composition    16 

Ants,  to  exterminate 512 

Apples,  baked 304 

boiled  304 

butter 304 

canning  of 327 

catsup... 343 

cobler  212 

cider  sauce 305 

composition  of 295,  296 

compote  of 308 

custard 267 

drying  of. 302 

dumplings 224 

float 269 

for  smoking 296 

for  vomiting 296 

fried  304 

fritters 231 

glaced 304 

jam  317 

jelly 312 

kuchen       269 

marmalade 314 

meringues 304 

nutritive  value  of  dried. 301 

paste    316 

pickles  339 

preserves .319 

pudding 217 

sauce 304 

sauce  of  dried 305 

serving  of 296 

shortcake 215 

spiced , .  .342 


INDEX. 

Page. 

Apples,  to  skin 302 

to  keep 42' 

vinegar 345 

water 353,365 

Apricots,  canning  of. 328,  331 

cheese 315 

composition  of 295  296 

marmalade 314 

paste  316 

preserves 319,  323 

serving  of 296 

shortcake 215 

to  keep 42 

Arrowroot  custard 267 

adulterations  of 406 

blanc  mange 368 

origin,  etc. 367 

to  buy 33 

to  cook 366 

Artichokes,  canned 158 

composition  of 158 

cooking  of.. 158 

French,  fried 158 

Jerusalem 158 

globe 158 

origin  of 158 

pickled 334 

to  keep 39 

Asparagus,   a    la    Fran- 

caise 158 

buttered 153 

buying 30 

canningof 329 

composition  of 155 

creamed  158 

origin  of 159 

soup 65 

steamed 158 

Asphalt,  artificial 433 

Aspicjelly 86 

Asses' milk 366 

artificial 366 

Bacalao 399 

Bacilli  .., 326 

Bacon,  buying 28 

flitchesof 28 

Bacteria 16,142,326 

Bain  marie 98 

Baking  dishes,  cleaning.. 422 

Baking  meat    96 

Baking  powder,  bread. ...  186 

adulteration  of 403 

its  action,  etc  ... 185 

proportion  to  flour. 235,  236 

to  make ..185 

Bananas,  baked.  305 

composition  of 295,  297 

compote  of 308 

custard 267 

fried 305 

fritters 231 

in  jelly... 272 

nutritive  value  of 297 

shortcake 215 

toserve  297 

Bannock,  Indian 194 

Barberry,  jam 317 

preserves  319 

syrup.,. 357 

Barding 102 

Barley,  buying 32 

composition  of 179 

for  invalids 362 

origin,  etc 32 

patent 32 

pearl..... 32 

soup 56 

water 365 

Barrel,  garbage 425 

Barrels,  to  clean 490 

Bass,  buying 30 

(529) 


Page. 

Basting  meats 96 

Baths,  care  of 452 

Bay  leaves,  origin,  etc...  41 

Beans,  baked 159 

buyingof 30 

canningof., 329,330 

composition  of 155 

cooking  of 159 

French 159 

New  England  baked 159 

nutritive  value  of 159 

origin  of 159 

pickled 334 

porridge 56 

salad 150 

shelled 159 

soup 56 

to  keep 39 

to  shell  easily 157 

Bear  meat,  to  cook  130 

Beating  cakes,  etc 237 

Bedbugs,  to  exterminate. 513 

Bedding,  to  disinfect 441 

Bedford  flavoring 239 

Bedroom,  the 434 

Beds,  hints  about 435 

Bedstead,  creaking  of ... .  435 

Bed  ticks,  to  clean 528 

Beef,  cooking  of  ...106  to  112 

composition  of 104 

alamode  108 

balls 106 

beefsteak ,...110 

boiled  dinner Ill 

boiled  tongue 109 

chipped.. 106 

cheese 106 

corned 106 

cur ing  it 410 

deviled     107 

deviled  liver 108 

dobe 106 

dried 107 

essence  of,  stewed 364 

fillet  of 27,107 

frizzled 107 

juice  of  broiled 364 

Hamburg 412 

heart 107 

hunter's 107 

kidneys 108 

location  of  parts  in 407 

minced Ill 

mock  duck 108 

mock  sausage 111 

omelet 108 

pot-pie 108 

pot  roast  of .109 

potted Ill 

pressed 109 

roast 109 

salad 150 

spiced 109 

soup 60 

stuffed  liver 108 

suet,  to  keep 47 

to  buy 26 

to  corn  it  411 

to  dryit 412 

to  keep :...  37 

tripe 110,  412 

with    Yorkshire    pud- 
din?  ..; 109 

Beef  fat 414 

Beefsteak 110 

broiled       110,364 

broiled  chopped 110 

Hamburg  steak 110 

pie    110 

rolled  110 

Sal  isbury  steak 110 


636 


INDEX 


Page. 
Beefsteak  with  onions. . .  .110 

Beef  tea 365 

to  remove  fat  from 363 

value  of 361 

Beers,  to  make 356 

stains  of 500 

Bees,  to  get  rid  of 512 

Beetles,  black 513 

Beets,  boiled 160 

canning  of 330 

creamed 160 

greens 160 

nutritive  value  of 160 

origin  of 160 

pickled 334,340 

vinegar 345 

Benneoil 144 

Benzine 499 

Benzine  collas 499 

Benzole 499 

Berries,  tocan 337 

to  keep 44 

to  serve 297 

shortcake 215 

stewed,  dried —  305 

Beverages 347  to  356 

apple  water 353 

blackberry  nectar 353 

cherry  acid 353 

cider  356 

choca 353 

chocolate 353 

coca  352 

cocoa 352 

cocoanut 353 

coffee  348  to  352 

cream  soda 353 

currant  shrub 354 

currant  water 354 

ginger 354 

ginger  pop 356 

gooseberry  shrub 354 

grape  juice 354 

grape  water 354 

jelly-. 35* 

koumiss 354 

lemonade  354 

lemon  beer 356 

mead  355 

oatmeal  drink 355 

orangeade 355 

orgeate 355 

Paraguay  tea. 353 

Persian 355 

pineapple 355 

raspberry  acid 355 

raspberry  shrub 355 

raspberry  water 355 

spruce  beer 356 

strawberry  acid 356 

strawberry  shrub 356 

tea 347 

tisane 356 

tomato  356 

tutti  frutti  356 

vinegar  water 355 

Bilberry,  the 297 

composition  of ,  297 

Bile,  action  of        12 

Bil  iousness,  food  for 363 

Birdlime    32 

Bird'snest 270 

Biscuits    189  to  191 

baking  powder 189 

buttermilk 190 

cream 190 

drop  190 

entire  wheat 190 

ginger „ 262 

graham 190 

milk 190 

raised 190 


Page. 

Biscuits,  savoy 264 

shortcake 190 

soda 190 

sponge 272 

tutti  frutti 190 

wafers 190 

Bites  and  stings 513 

Blackberry,  the 297 

canning  of 328 

composition  of 295,  297 

drying  of 302 

jam , 317 

jelly 312 

marmalade 315 

nectar 353 

pickled 340 

preserves 319 

spiced 342 

syrup 357 

Blackings,  acid  487 

Blackings  for  shoes,  etc . .489 

Black  reviver    504 

Black  walnut,  ink  on, . . .  451 
Bladders,  to  prepare  for 

use..    , 413 

Bleaching  clothes.... 520,  528 

Bleaching  powder 438 

Blood,  stains  of 500 

Blueberry,  the 297 

composition  of 297 

pickled 340 

Blackbird  pie    127 

Black  pepper  vinegar 94 

Blanc  mange 266 

almond 266,  272 

corn-starch 266 

farina 266 

fruit 266 

arrowroot 368 

rice 368 

sago 368 

tapioca 368 

taganrok 368 

Irish  moss 266 

rice 266 

variegated ........266 

Blood,  how  supplied 13 

Blue  fish,  to  cook 72 

Bluing  for  clothes 519 

Body,  composition  of  the.  13 

Boiled  dinner Ill 

Boiling,  killing  the  odor 

of 104 

meat 96 

principles  of 96 

water 96 

Bologna  sausages 413 

Bombazine,  to  clean 527 

Bones,  hints  about 455 

in  soup 49 

Boning  meat 102 

poultry 121 

Bonnets,  hints  about.     .  496 
Books,  hints  about..  483,  484 

Boots  487  to  489 

Borage 41 

Borax  510 

Boston  chips 170 

Bottles,  to  clean 463,  464 

Bouillon 60 

Bracciolette 398 

Braising 101 

Brass,  hints  about 467,  468 

Brass  and  copper 468 

Brass  vessels 417 

Brawn 120 

Bread    179  to  189 

after  baking  it 182 

adulteration  of 402 

baking  of 181 

baking  pans  for 181 

baking  powder 186 


Page. 

Bread,  box  for 182 

brown     1S7 

Boston  brown 187, 188 

buttermilk 187 

Carolina  rice  188 

composition  of 179 

corn      188 

crumbing 103 

crumbs  103,  189 

digestibility  of  182 

discovery  of  leavened.,    9 

eating  hot    .182 

entire  wheat 186 

essentials  of  making 179 

fermentation  of 183 

graham 188 

gluten 188 

half  and  half 186 

keeping  of 182 

Kentucky  egg  corn 188 

kneading  of 180 

lime  water  for 363 

milk.  187 

mixing  it 179 

mixing  flours  for 182 

oatmeal 189 

once  raised 186 

oven  for  baking 181 

pastry  flour  for 183 

prepared  flour  for 183 

principles  involved   In 

making  183 

remnants  of 182 

rice 188 

rising  of ,.180 

rye ,...  189 

saltin 183 

salt  rising. 187 

squash  189 

steamed  stale 189 

to  keep    47 

uses  of  stale 47, 189 

using  potatoes  in 183 

using  sugar  in. 183 

water 186 

white  185 

white  corn ..188 

yeast  for 179 

Breakfast  dish,  a 127 

Bretzeln 395 

Brioches  191 

Bristle  tail 513 

British  gum 17 

Brittania  metal 468 

Broiling 95 

Bronze    .":..  468 

Bronzing,  process  for.  . .  468 

Brooms,  care  of 419 

Broth,  chicken  364 

meat  62 

mutton    63,364 

to  improve  its  flavor 61 

valueof 361 

Browned  flour 106 

Brown  roux 86 

Brownstone 457 

Brussels  sprouts,  boiled..  160 

buying 30 

saute.     160 

origin  of       160 

Buckwheat,  buying  of  .  32 
batter,  to  keep  sweet  ..196 
cakes,  baked  193 

flour  composition  of      179 
muffins..,.  194 

origin,  etc  .  32 

Buffalo  meat,  to  cook       130 

Buffalo  moth 613 

Buns,  cinnamon 191 

English 191 

plain 191 

Burnett's  disinfectant.., 439 


IttDEX 


53i 


PAGE. 

Butte? 143  to  145 

adulteration  of 405 

anchovy 201 

butyric  acid  in 143 

buying  of 31 

causes  of  its  flavor 143 

clarified.  144 

composition  of 143 

drawn 87 

horseradish 88 

garlic 88 

lobster 63 

maitre  d' hotel 87 

montpelier 87 

mustard 201 

nut   88 

scented 88 

rancid,  to  restore 44 

substitutes  for 144 

tarragon 88 

to  "cream"  it 217 

to  keep 44 

to  make  quickly 143 

to  salt.     143,  144 

washing  easily  143 

why  eaten  with  bread..  155 

Butterine 144 

Buttermilk  for  invalids.  .361 

uses  of.    143 

Butternuts,  pickled 338 

Butter  scotch .291 

Butyric  acid,  in  butter. .  .143 

Cabbage 160 

baked 160 

boiled  161 

canning  of 330 

composition  of 155 

fried 161 

origin  of  161 

pickled 334,  340 

salad 151 

soup 56 

to  keep 39 

with  milk 161 

Cabbage  worms ...513 

Cake 234to264 

almonds  for 235 

baked  in  paper 237 

baking  powder  for 236 

beating  and  stirring 237 

butter  for  234 

cake  pans  for 237 

citron  for  235 

cocoanutfor 235 

cooking  in    high    alti- 
tudes   240 

cream  of  tartar  in.  .235,  236 

crystalization  for 260 

currants  for 235 

dates  for 235 

eggs  for 234 

extracts  for 239,  240 

fillings  for 241,242 

flour  for .234 

frosting  for  255  to  260 

fruit  for    235 

how  to  mix 236 

icingfor    255to260 

lemon  peel  for 240 

materials  for 234 

measuring  for 234 

milk  for 235 

molasses  for 234 

orange  peel  for 240 

oven  and  baking 237 

raisins  for 235 

soda  in  235,  236 

spices  for 235 

tins,  cleaning  of 422 

to  keep 47 

Cakes,  layer 240  to  247 

1,2,  3,  cake 245 


Page. 

Cakes,  layer,  agnes 242 

almond 242 

apple  jelly 242 

beaten  cream 243 

cheap  cream 243 

chocolate 242,243 

chocolate  caramel 243 

cocoanut 243,  247 

cream 243 

cream  puffs  244 

custard 244 

Denver 244 

economical 244 

fig  244 

iron  uois 244 

jelly 244,245 

minnehaha 246 

Neapolitan , 246 

nut 246 

orange 246 

oriental 245 

peach 246 

polonaise 246 

ribbon  246,247 

rolled  jelly 245 

sour  cream 244 

strawberry 247 

vanity 247 

white 247 

Cakes,  loaf 247  to  255 

almond 247 

angel's  food 247 

apple.  248 

Bangor 248 

berwick  sponge 253 

black   248 

bread 248 

buttermilk 248 

cameron 248 

Canada 248 

carson 248 

chocolate  248 

chocolate  marble 251 

cider 249 

citron 249 

clove ...248 

cocoanut  sponge 253 

coffee 249 

cold  water 249 

corn-starch      249 

corn-starch  sponge 253 

cream 249 

cream  sponge 253 

delicate 249 

dough 249 

dried  apple 248 

election  cake 250 

feather 250 

fountain 249 

freeman ..250 

French  250 

fruit 250 

ginger 254 

gingerbread 254, 255 

tout      250 

graham  250 

groom's 254 

hasty  251 

hickory-nut 251 

ice  cream 251 

imperial 251 

lady's  251 

lemon  251 

marble  251 

molasses. 251 

mountain 252 

Newport  252 

one-egg 251 

orange 252 

plum  252 

poor  man's 252 

pork 253 


Page. 

Cakes,  loaf,  pound 252 

quick 252 

raised      263 

raisin 252 

silver 252 

snow. 252 

spice 253 

sponge        252,253 

steamed  fruit 250 

Tolman 253 

Troy    253 

wedding 253 

white  253,  254 

white  fruit 250 

white  perfection 254 

whortleberry 254 

Cakes,  small 260  to  264 

Calcimine  479,480 

Calf's  drains 112 

Calf's  foot  jelly 273 

Calf's  liver 112 

Calorie,  what  it  is 19 

Calorimeter,  the 19 

Canada  cake 248 

Candles 466 

Candlesticks,  to  clean 466 

Candy  making 284  to  294 

boiling  the  sugar 285 

colors  for 256 

coloring  it 284 

"degrees"  in  boiling 

sugar 285 

flavoring  it 284 

fondantfor      286 

fork  for  dipping 287 

greasing  the  syrup 285 

keeping  it 286 

materials  for 284 

melting  fondant 287 

pulling  of 284 

testing  the  syrup 286 

Candies,  almond  creams. 287 

balls   .287 

bonbons 289 

butternut  balls 293 

butterscotch. 291 

chocolate  caramels 291 

chocolate  creams. ..287,  289 

cocoanut  creams 288,  290 

corn-cake..-. 293 

cough 291 

cream  f  or .   286,  288,  289 

cream  coated  fruits  —  288 

cream  nut 289 

cream  walnuts    .   289 

crystalized  cherries  ...293 

crystalized  fruit 294 

crystalized  nut  meats. 

293,294 

crystalized  popcorn 293 

currant  drops 292 

everton  taffy 291 

fig 293 

French  286 

French  chocolates 292 

frosted  fruits 294 

fruit  creams 288 

ginger  drops 392 

glaces 290 

hoarhound 292 

honey         , 293 

iced  fruit    294 

lemon  creams.  287 

lemon  drops .  292 

lemon  taffy  290 

lozenges        289 

maple  caramels 292 

maple  sugar  creams 288 

marsh-mallows 290 

molasses. 291 

molasses  'taffy 290 

nougat 390 


532 


INDEX 


Page. 

Candies,  nut  caramels ....  292 

orange  creams 287 

orange  drops 292 

orange  peel 294 

Patties  288 

peanut...  *»? 

peanut  molasses 291 

peppermint  drops 292 

popcorn  balls  293 

raspberry  creams 288 

raspberry  drops . .  292 

ratafias  293 

rose  drops • — 292 

strawberry  caramels . .  .292 

strawberry  creams 288 

strawberry  drops 292 

sugar  drops 292 

sweet  flag ■  •«»! 

uncooked  cream.... 288,  289 

uncooked  fondant 288 

vanilla  caramels 292 

vanilla  taffy 290 

walnut  creams 287 

walnut  molasses ^91 

wintergreen  drops 292 

white 293 

Cannelons 233 

Canned    fruits,    to    im- 
prove          — 27b 

Canned  goods,  adultera- 
tion of 404 

Canning 326  to  332 

breaking  jars  in 32b 

cold  process  for 331 

effect  of  tin  cans 327 

food  value  of.  canned 

goods 327 

keeping  canned  goods.. 327 

origin  of —  -326 

paring  fruit  for 327 

principles  involved  in.. 326 
salicylic  acid  for  — 327 
softening  hard  fruits.  ..327 

sulphurous  acid  for 327 

using  sugar  for 327 

utensils  for 326 

vegetables  for 327 

without  syrup 331 

Canning  apples 327 

apricots  328,  331 

asparagus 329 

beans ....329 

beans  with  acid 330 

beets  330 

blackberries 328 

berries  327 

cabbage ...330 

carrots 330 

cherries 329,331 

corn 329 

corn  beef -.     ..332 

currants  328,  331, 332 

damsons 328 

dewberries 328 

elderberries 328 

fruit  juices 330 

grapes 328,331 

gooseberries 328,  331 

greengages 328 

huckleberries 328 

meat 332 

mince  meat 332 

nectarines 329 

peaches 329,331 

pears 328 

peas 329 

peas  with  acid 330 

pineapples 329,  331 

plums  328,329,331 

pumpkin 330 

quinces  328 

raspberries 328 


Page. 
Canning,  rhubarb.... 328,  331 

sausage  meat 332 

strawberries.... 328, 329,  332 

succatash 330 

tomatoes 330 

tongue ...332 

Capers,  adulteration  of..  88 

mock 88 

nature  of,  etc 88 

sauce 88 

vinegar 94 

Capsicum  vinegar 94 

Cantelope,  pickled 340 

preserves 325 

to  serve 298 

Caramel 16,65,183 

coffee 351 

prepared 257 

syrup 225 

Carafes,  to  clean 462 

Caraway,  its  nature,  etc..  34 

Carbohydrates,  the 16 

Carbolic  acid 438 

Carbonada 399 

Carbonates,  the 18 

Carbonic  acid  gas  in  wells.427 
Cards,  to  clean  playing.. 485 

Carmine  color 256 

Carpets 445  to  448 

a  cheap,  to  make 449 

acid  on 447 

grease  on 446 

gum  on 447 

injured  colors 447 

ink  on  446 

insects  in 447 

laying  of 447 

oil  on 447 

paint  on 447 

soot  on 446 

stair 447 

sugar  on. .447 

to  beat  445 

to  clean 445,446 

to  sweep    445 

varnish  on 447 

■wax  on 447 

whitewash  on 447 

Carpet  beetle  513 

Carrots,  boiled 161 

canning  of 330 

composition  of 155, 161 

cooking  of 161 

fritters 232 

nutritive  value  of . . ; . . .  161 

pickled 334 

pie 209 

soup 56 

with  cream 161 

Casein 15,142,145 

Cashmere,  to  clean 527 

Casks,  to  clean ..490 

Cassava 224 

Cassia 34 

Caterpillars 513 

Catfish 72 

Catsups  342  to  344 

mold  in 342 

to  keep 342 

Catsup,  apple 343 

cherry 343 

crab  apple 343 

cucumber 343 

currant 343 

elderberry 343 

grape 343 

gooseberry 343 

lemon 343 

mushroom 343 

oyster 343 

pepper 344 

tomato 344 


Page. 

Catsup,  walnut 344 

Cauliflower,  baked 162 

boiled 162 

buying 31 

composition  of 162 

origin,  etc 162 

Pickled 334,  340 

sauce 88 

to  keep 39 

Cayenne  pepper,  adulter- 
ation of  404 

Cayenne  vinegar 93 

Celeriac 162 

Celery,  baked 162 

buying 31 

extract  of 239 

fried 162 

origin,  etc 162 

pickled 334 

salad 151 

sauce 88 

soup 56,  57 

to  fringe 149 

to  keep 39 

vinegar 94 

Celery-seed  vinegar 94 

Cellars,  care  of 424,425 

Celluloid 456 

Cements 504  to  506 

acid  proof 606 

an  extra 504 

aquarium 504 

colored  glass 505 

.diamond. 506 

fireproof 606 

for  bone 506 

for  china 505 

for  crockery 505 

for  glass 504,  505 

for  knife  handles 421 

for  ivory 506 

for  leather 505 

for  marble 505 

for  meerschaum 506 

for  metal 504 

for  mother  of  pearl 506 

for  plaster  of  paris 505 

for  porcelain 505 

for  rubber 505 

for  stone 605 

for  stoneware  505 

forstoves 606 

for  walls 506 

for  wood 505 

general  utility .604 

Japanese 506 

rice 506 

to  resist  petroleum 506 

waterproof 506 

Cerkestal 400 

Charlotte  russe 270,  273 

Chair  seats 450 

Chamois  skin,  to  wash ..  .487  . 

Charcoal 438,510 

Chemical  heater 477 

Cheese   145  to  148 

boiled  146 

buying  of 31 

composition  of 142 

cottage 146 

cream 146 

Devonshire.- 146 

fondue..  147 

fritters 147 

fruit 315 

home  scallop 147 

Italian  curds 147 

mites  in 45 

nutritive  value  of 145 

Parmesan 146 

polpetti 147 

potted 147 


INDEX 


533 


Page. 

Cheese,  rennet  for 145 

sandwiches 202 

serving 146 

smear  case. 147 

straws 148 

to  keep 45 

with  macaroni 147, 166 

with  potatoes  171 

with  rice. 174 

with  toast 148 

Welsh  rarebit 148 

Cherries,  canning  of  .329,  331 

Cherry  acid 353 

catsup 343 

cheese  315 

composition  of 295,  297 

cream 288 

creamed 289 

cry stalized 293,  294 

drying  of 302 

dumplings 225 

extract  of. 239 

jam   317 

jelly 312 

origin,  etc 297 

pickled 334,340 

pie     209 

preserves 319 

pudding 219 

spiced 342 

syrup 357 

to  keep 42 

to  serve 297 

vinegar 345 

Cherry  laurel 41 

Chestnut  sauce 88 

stuffing  for  poultry 122 

Chicken,  boiled 122 

cheese   ; 122 

composition  of 104 

croquettes 134 

escaloped 122 

fricassee 122 

German  way 395 

loaf  ..  122 

and  oysters... 123 

patties 123 

pie   123 

pie,  gases  in 123 

pressed    , 123 

and  rice 123 

salad i 151 

soup 61 

shortcake 124 

supreme 124 

tart      .....124 

to  buy 29 

and  tomatoes 124 

Chicory 151,352 

Chillies 35 

sauce    339 

vinegar 94 

Chimneys,  hints  about..  .477 
China  ware,  to  clean  . . .  .462 

Chine  of  pork 118, 119 

Chinille,  to  clean    628 

Chintz  on  furniture 450 

to  wash    527 

Chive,  the  60 

Chloride  of  lime 425,449 

Chloroform 499 

Choca      353 

Chocolate  352,  353 

cake    242,  243 

creams .269 

custard 267 

for  invalids 363 

mold.. 396 

pie 209 

pudding 219 

stains  from  500 

Choke  damp,  in  wells 427 


Page. 

Chow  chow 339 

Chromos,  to  clean,  etc 481 

Chyle,  the 13 

Chyme,  the  12 

Ciscerns,  hints  about.427,  428 

Cider 356 

jelly    273 

to  keep 47 

vinegar 345 

Cinnamon,    adulteration 

of    406 

cookies.. 261 

its  origin,  etc 34 

Citricacid 18,499 

Citron,  dried 302 

for  cake 235 

origin,  etc 302 

pickled 341 

preserves  ..319,320 

Citronelle  extract 239 

Clams,  au  gratin 77 

chowder 64,  77 

escaloped 77 

fritters 232 

soup 65 

stewed 77 

on  toast 77 

when  in  season 77 

Cleaning  compounds 504 

Clinkers  in  stoves 475 

Clothes  lines 520 

pins 520 

washing  of 517 

wringers 519 

Clothing 492  to  498 

burning 493 

care  of  492 

creases  in 493 

fireproof 493 

men's  493 

putting  away 492 

to  disinfect 441 

wet , 492 

Cloth,  waterproof 494 

Clover  vinegar 345 

Cloves,  adulteration  of . .  406 

their  origin,  etc 34 

Coat  collars,  to  clean  —  528 

Cobler,  apple 212 

peach 212 

Coca        352 

Cochineal  coloring 256 

Cockroaches.    . .  .    513 

Cocoa,  adulteration  of...  .403 

origin,  etc  352 

to  make,  etc 352 

Cocoanut  beverage. . .        353 

composition  of 295, 297 

cookies 261 

custard 267 

origin,  etc 297 

jumbles 262 

pie      209 

preparing  for  cake 235 

to  buy 33 

to  serve 297 

Cocus    326 

Codfish, balls  72 

escaloped 72 

toast     72 

gruel 367 

tobuy    .  30 

Coffee    348to352 

adulteration  of 403 

amount  to  use 350 

boiled  350 

buying 32 

cafe  aulait 351 

cafenoir 351 

caramel 351 

corn 351 

cream , 369 


Page. 
Coffee,  essentials  in  m'k'g350 

filtered 350 

for  invalids 362 

French... 350 

grinding  of 349 

iced. 351 

jelly 273 

mixingof 352 

origin,  etc 351 

roasting  of 348,  351 

stains  from 600 

steamed 350 

substitutes  for 351 

the  coffee  pot 349 

tokeep 46 

Vienna 351 

Coins,  to  clean 468 

Colcannon 162 

Coldslaw  151 

Collops,  Scotch 135 

Colors  for  frostings,  etc.. 256 

injured,  to  restore 498 

setting  of.... 528 

Composition  of  Food,  14, 
66, 104,  136, 142, 165, 179,  295 

Compotes,  how  made 307 

syrup  for... 308 

of  apples 308 

of  bananas 308 

of  figs , 308 

of  gooseberries 308 

of  orange 308 

ofpeaches 308 

of  pears 308 

Condensed  milk 276 

Condiments... 91 

Condy's  fluid.....' 439 

Confectionery,  adultera- 
tion of 406 

Consomme 61 

Consumption,  food  for...  363 

Cookies,  Boston  tea 261 

cinnamon  261 

cocoanut 261 

cream 261 

ginger 261 

hermit 261 

hickory-nut 263 

icingfor  258 

molasses 261 

orange      262 

Eockford 263 

vanilla 262 

Cooking,  object  of 22 

in  high  altitudes 240 

Copper,  to  bronze 468 

toclean 468 

sulphate  of 439 

vessels  417 

Copperas,  green 440 

Coral 474 

Coriander  seeds 35 

Corks,  hints  about 464 

Corn,  cutting  from  cob . .  .163 

baked  163 

boiled  162 

buying 31 

cake,  Florida 193 

canning  of 329 

chowder 163 

coffee 351 

composition  of 156 

dodgers 194 

dried 163 

escaloped  163 

flour,  to  boil 98 

fried 163 

fritters  233 

green,  to  cook 156 

pickled 334 

pone  193 

pudding .....163,219 


534 


INDEX 


Page. 

Corn,  origin,  etc 164 

oysters 163 

souffle 163 

soup 57 

stewed  163 

succotash  163 

vinegar        345 

Corn  beef,  canning  of  ....332 

pickle  for 411 

spiced    412 

Corn  bread  ...     188 

Cornices,  gilt,  to  cleans... 486 

Cornmeal,  buying 32 

composition  of 179 

for  invalids 362 

mixing  with  flour 182 

Corn-starch,  blanc  m'ge..266 
necessity  of  cooking  —  219 

nutritive  value  of 219 

pie      209 

pudding 219 

Corrosive  sublimate 439 

Cotton-seed  oil . .  .100, 144, 149 

Court  bouillon 394 

Crabs,  browned 78 

buying  30 

deviled    78 

escaloped 78 

kromeskiesof 78 

salad 151 

soft  shell    78 

fried  soft  shell   78 

Crab-apple,  catsup 343 

jelly  312 

marmalade 314 

pickles 339 

preserves 319 

Cracked  wheat,  buying..  32 

cooking  of 199 

Crackers,  composition  of.179 

corn-starch 192 

gruel  367 

panada 368 

plain  192 

graham 192 

Cranberry,  its  nature,  etc  42 

jelly 312 

preserves 320 

sauce     88,305 

shortcake 215 

tarts 214 

to  keep 42 

Cranes,  to  cook 127 

Crape,  to  clean,  etc 527 

Cray-fish,  curried 79 

potted 79 

Cream,  butter 276 

chocolate 269 

coffee  269 

double 276 

for  invalids  361 

Hamburg 269 

mock      269 

orange  274 

peach 274 

pie     209 

pineapple 274 

pink 269 

rice      269,  275 

Russian.... 275 

single    276 

Spanish..  275 

sour,  to  restore 265 

substitute  for 226 

tapioca    269 

tapioca  nut  269 

thickened 269 

vanilla 275 

velvet 275 

whipped 269 

Cream  of  tartar,  adulter- 
ation pf , 403 


Page. 
Cream  of  tartar,   how 

made,  etc 236 

Creases  in  clothing 493 

Cress  vinegar 94 

Crickets     514 

Croccante     398 

Crockery,  to  clean 464 

Croquettes 131, 133  to  135 

to  make 133 

baked 133 

brain  133 

chicken 133 

chicken  and  oyster 134 

fish 134 

hominy   134 

kromeskies 134 

lobster 134 

oyster 134 

potato 134 

rice 134 

rice  and  chicken 134 

sweetbread 114 

veal  134 

Croutons 54 

Cruets,  to  clean 463 

Crullers 230 

Crumpets,  English 195 

graham  195 

Cucumbers,  boiled 161 

composition  of 155 

fried 164 

origin,  etc 164 

raw 164 

stewed , 164 

Cups,  to  clean  browned . .  462 

Curacoa 239 

Curd 142,  145 

Currants,  canning  of  .328,  332 

catsup : 343 

composition  of 295,  297 

crystalized 294 

dried 302 

jam     317 

origin,  etc 297 

nutritive  value  of 235 

paste 316 

pickled 340 

pie      210 

preparing  for  cake 235 

preserves 319,320 

shrub 354 

soy 344 

spiced 342 

syrup 357 

to  plump 235 

vinegar 346 

Zante 297 

Curry,  powder 93 

sauce   89 

vinegar  94 

Curtains,  to  wash.526, 527,  528 

Custards  265,  266  to  268 

almond 267 

apple. 267 

arrow-root 267 

banana 267 

Bengal 267 

boiled 267 

cake 244 

chocolate 267 

cocoanut 267 

float  267 

fruit     267 

lemon 268 

ost  kaka 268 

pie 210 

plain 266 

rennet   268 

soft  caramel 267 

souffle 268 

steamed 268 

tapioca ,,....,, ....268 


Page. 

Custards,  tomato 268 

various 268 

white 268 

Cucumbers,  buying 31 

catsup  .343 

pickled 334, 335,  340 

salad    152 

salted 335 

sauce 89 

spiced ....335 

soup 57 

to  keep     40 

vinegar 94 

Crystalization  for  cake.. 260 
Cutting  up  meats .  .407  to  411 

Dandelions,  buying 31 

cooking  of 165 

Damson,  the 300 

canning  of 328 

jelly 313 

preserves 321 

sauce 306 

Date,  cake  249 

composition  of 295,  297 

creamed 289 

origin,  etc 297 

pie   210 

preparing  for  cooking . .  235 

sauce    ..305 

to  serve 297 

Daubing 102 

Death  watch,  the 514 

Decanters,  to  clean. .462,  463 

Deodorizers 411 

Desserts  265  to  275 

almond  blanc  mange.  ..272 

apple  float 269 

apple  kuchen 269 

bananas  in  jelly 272 

bird's  nest 270 

blancmange- 266 

calf's  foot  jelly 273 

charlotte  russe 270,273 

cheap  dessert 270 

cider  jelly 273 

coffee  jelly 273 

creams    269 

custards  266  to  268 

economical 270 

English  cream  jelly 273 

floating  island 270 

French  jellies ....270 

fruit  puffs :..271 

fruit  tapioca 271 

fruit  trifle 271 

gelatine  preparations 

for  272 

gooseberry  cream 273 

jelly  of  different  colors.272 

kiss  pudding 271 

layer  pudding. 270 

lemon  gelatine 273 

lemon  jelly 271,273 

quince  snow 271 

Macedonian  jelly 274 

molded  snow 271 

orange  cream 274 

orange  float 270 

peach  cream  274 

pineapple  cream  274 

pineapple  jelly 274 

prune  jelly 274 

puffs 271 

rice  cream 275 

Russian  cream 275 

Russian  jelly  275 

sago  with  fruit. 271 

Scandinavian  rogrod.  ..271 

snow  pudding 275 

Spanish  cream 275 

sponge  biscuit 272 

strawberry  jelly ,.275 


INDEX 


535 


Page. 

Desserts,  turon 271 

vanilla  cream 275 

velvet  cream 275 

Devonshire  cream 146 

Dewberries,  canning  cf. ..328 

composition  of 297 

preserves. —  319 

Dextrin      17,  183,200 

Diagonals,   to    remove 

shine  on 524 

Diamonds,  graham 192 

toclean  473 

Dicke  milch 395 

Diet,  importance  of 363 

Dietary,  to  arrange  a 155 

Digestion,  processes  of . ..  12 

Dishwashing 419 

Disinfectants.. 437  to 441,  510 

Dodgers,  corn 194 

Dolmas 400 

Doors 431 

Door  handles,  to  clean.... 431 

Door  plates,  to  clean 469 

Doree 207 

Doughnuts 229,230 

dough  for ....229 

fat  for  frying 229 

coffee 230 

cream 230 

plain  230 

raised  230 

Drains,  care  of 424 

Drawers,  to  make  draw 

out  easy 452 

Dresser,  the 418 

Dress  mending 495 

Dresses,  to  clean 418 

Dried  apple  jelly 312 

for  pies    208 

Dried  beef ..107,412 

Dried  fruit 301  to  303 

Drinks 347  to  358 

Drippings 103 

Drop  cake  262 

Drops,  almond 260 

anise  260 

ginger  261 

Ducks,  buying  of 29 

cooking  of ; 125 

roast 125 

to  kill. 29 

wild    125,127 

Dumplings 217,  224,  225 

cherry 225 

apple 224 

huckleberry 225 

fruit 225 

jam ....225 

steamed 225 

suet,  to  boil 158 

Duodenum, the 12 

Dusting  434 

Dust,  stains  from 500 

Dutch  pudding  sauce 226 

Dyes,  stains  of 503 

Earthenware,  hints 

about 464 

toclean 462 

varnish  for 464 

Earwigs    ., 514 

Eating,  times  and  man- 
ner of 23 

Ebonized  floors 444 

Eels,  buying 30 

cookingof  72 

Egg  plant,  baked 164 

buying    31 

composition  of 155 

fried  164 

Eggs 136 to  141 

and  bread-crumbing.. . .  103 
beating  of .234 


Page. 

Eggs,  buying 32 

composition  of 136 

decomposition  of.. 46 

for  invalids 361,364 

object  of  beating 235 

philosophy  of  keeping..  46 

to  keep 45 

value  of 25,136 

value  for  children 136 

yolk,  for  cleaning .499 

anchovied 140 

baked 137 

to  boil 98,137 

breakfast 138 

coloring 137 

cold  fried 138 

creamed 138 

curried 138 

deviled 138 

dried  46 

dying 137 

drink 365 

dropped,  on  toast 138 

ducks  265 

escaloped .138 

fried 138 

gem... 138 

gruel 367 

mold 396 

omelets 139 

pickled 336 

poached       140 

poached  in  gravy 140 

salad  .152 

for  salads 137 

sauce 89 

scalloped 140 

Scotch   140 

scrambled 140 

shirred 149 

soup 61 

Spanish 140 

steamed 141,  364 

stuffed 141 

toast  141 

vaulting 137 

with  ham 140 

with  pork 119 

with  potatoes 171 

Elderberry,  catsup 343 

canning  of 328 

spiced 342 

pie    210 

Elder  flower  vinegar 94 

Elm  jelly    367 

Emeralds,  to  clean 473 

Enamels  for  shirts 521 

Endive 151 

English, buns 191 

cream  jelly 273 

crumpets 195 

pudding    220 

plum  pudding  222 

Engravings,  hints  about.. 

482,483 

Entire  wheat,  biscuit 190 

bread 186 

nutritive  value,  etc 186 

muffins 195 

Ermine 497 

Escarole 151 

Eschalot,  the 50 

Ether  499 

Exterminators    for   in- 
sects  515 

Extracts  and  Flavorings. 

239,240 

almond 239 

allspice     239 

bedf ord  flavoring 239 

celery 239 

cherry , 239 


Page. 
Extracts  and  Flavorings. 

cherry  ratafia 239 

citronelle 239 

coffee     239 

curacoa 239 

currant  ratafia 240 

lemon  239 

maraschino 239 

noyau 239 

orange  239 

orange  flower  water 240 

plum 239 

ratafia 239 

rose 240 

rose  water 240 

tea  flavoring 240 

vanilla 240 

Virginia  flavoring  55 

Faded   hangings,   to    re- 
store   528 

Faggots,  beef 407 

Farina 199 

blanc  mange 266 

pudding 220 

Fat,  for  frying 100,  229 

how  digested 12,  13 

nutritive  value,  etc..  17, 18 

temperature  of  hot 101 

to  clarify    . .   .    '  ...  100, 229 

to  stop  its  burning 104 

uses  to  the  system 144 

Feathers,  hints  about.490,491 

Fenders,  rusting  of 475 

Fermentation 16, 14.2 

Fetticus 152 

Fever,  food  for 361 

Fibrin , 15,  95 

Fig,  candy 293 

compote  of 308 

composition  of 295,  298 

creamed 289 

origin,  etc 298 

pickled .340 

preserves 320 

sauce  305 

to  keep 42 

to  serve 297,298 

tomato 320 

Filbert,  macaroons 263 

tokeep.etc 42 

Files,  to  clean 470 

Fillets  de  vent 394 

offish 67 

Filter,  to  make  a 429 

Fires,  hints  about  476 

Fire,  hand  grenades 476 

kindlers 476 

Fireproof  solution 477 

Fish 66  to  76 

augratin 71 

anchovies 72 

balls  71 

blue  fish 72 

boiling  of 68,69,96 

boning  of  67 

brooktrout 75 

buying  of 29 

cat-fish 72 

chowder 71 

cleaning  of  67 

codfish.  ...  72 

creamed    72 

cold,  redressed :.  76 

composition  of 66 

croquettes 134 

eels    72 

escaloped 76 

escaloped  codfish 72 

fecundity  of 73 

fillets  of 67 

fishcakes 76 

fish  pie , 76 


536 


INDEX 


Page. 

Fish,  to  garnish 68,  69,  70 

halibut 73 

how  to  fry 69 

lake  trout 75 

mackerel 73 

muskallonge 75 

nutrimentin 30 

potted 76,111 

remnants  of 75 

fish  roes 73 

salad 153 

salmon 73 

salt 75 

sardines 74 

sauce  for 89 

effect  of  salting 67 

sauteing 70 

shad..  74 

to  keep 38,  67 

to  skin 67 

smelts 74 

spiced 71 

steaming 69 

tostew 71 

stock 52 

stuffing  for  baked 70 

to  thaw  when  frozen. . .  67 

trout 75 

turbot 75 

value  as  food 66 

Flannel  cakes 198 

Flannels,  shrinking  of.  ..522 

washing  of 522 

Flat-irons 521 

Flavored  vinegars 93 

Flavorings 239,  240 

Flavoring,  Virginia 55 

Flauns 215 

Fleas 514 

Flesh  forming  foods  15 

Flies    514 

Floating  island 270 

Floors  and  floor  coverings 

441  to  449 

Floors,  enameled 444 

ebonized 444 

ground,  to  keep  dry  —  445 

hall 445 

musty 442 

oiled        444 

painted 445 

polished 443 

stained 444 

tiled 449 

varnished 444 

waxed 443 

wood 441 

Flour,  baked 368 

boiled  .. 368 

buying  32 

composition  of 179 

for  invalids 362 

mixing 182 

pastry 183 

prepared .183 

foods,  to  boil 98 

to  brown — 106 

to  keep 46 

Fly-paper 514 

Fondant,  to  make 286 

Fondue 147 

Food   and  Feeding,  sug- 
gestions about 11 

Food,  amount  of,  needed.  19 

composition  of 14 

constituents  in  1  lb 21 

to  keep       47 

Force-meat 54 

Foreign  cookery 393  to  401 

English 393 

French 393 

Germ  an -. 395 


Page. 
Foreign  Cookery,  Italian.397 

Jewish 400 

Russian 401 

Spanish 398 

Turkish 400 

Forks,  care  of 420 

Fowls,  drawing  of 121 

fried 124 

guinea 125 

minced 125 

ornamenting  roast 260 

rechauffe 125 

reheated 125 

steamed  125 

to  buy 29 

tokill 29 

to  make  old  tender 124 

to  truss 121 

Frangipane 366 

Frappes  282 

Freezing  mixtures 426 

French,  cake 250 

candies ■  286 

chocolate 292 

coffee 350 

cookery 393,394 

court  bouillon 394 

fillets  de  vent 394 

macedoin  of  vegetables.394 

method  of  polishing 454 

mirotin  of  veal 394 

polish  reviver ....... 453 

ramequins 394 

jellies .270 

loaf  cake   250 

orange  jelly 274 

pickles.. 338 

rolls ...192 

salad  dressing 150 

Fricasseeing 99 

Fried  cakes 230 

Fried   food,    why  it   dis- 
agrees   18 

Frijoles 399 

Fritters 229  to  233 

batterfor 231 

syrup  for 231 

to  make 231 

apDle    231 

banana 231 

berry .231 

bread 231 

cake  232 

carrot .232 

clam 232 

cheese 147 

corn  232 

cornmeal 232 

cream  232 

fruit 232 

jam 232 

jelly 232 

lemon .232 

meat 232 

orange 232 

oyster 232 

pork 233 

potato  233 

raw  potato 233 

rice      233 

salsify 233 

various  kinds 233 

vegetable 233 

Frogs   72 

Frozen  meat,  to  thaw. 37. 104 

Fruits 295  to  308 

canning  of 326  to  332 

cheeses     315 

compotes  of 307,  308 

cooked 303  to  308 

cream  coated 288 

crystalized 294 


Page. 

Fruits,  custard 267 

dried 301  to  303 

dried,  to  cook 302 

dried,  to  keep 301 

effect  of  cooking 296 

fresh 296  to  301 

frosted 294 

frozen 281 

glaces  of 290 

iced  294 

juices,  canning  of 330 

juices  for  invalids 362 

molds 282 

nutritive  value  of 295 

pastes 315 

pectose  in 310 

pies     210 

preserves  of 309  to  326 

puffs 271 

salad  of 154 

sauces 303  to  308 

serving  fresh 296  to  301 

shortcake 215 

stains  from 500 

tapioca 271 

time  to  eat 295 

to  dry 301 

to  keep 42 

to  harden  it    318 

to  soften  hard 327 

trifle ...271 

value  of  dried 301 

use  of  sugar  in  cooking.303 
with  johnny  cake 193 

Fruit,  spiced 341,  342 

apples 342 

blackberries 342 

cherries 342 

currants 342 

elderberries 342 

gooseberries 342 

grapes 342 

peaches 342 

pears 342 

tomatoes    342 

Fruit  trees,  insects  on . . .  516 

Frosting  for  cake .  .255  to  260 

to  make 255 

to  whiten 256 

almond 257 

boiled — ...  257 

boiled  chocolate 257 

chocolate 257 

colors  for 256 

easily  made 257 

gelatine 257 

isinglass 258 

maple  syrup 258 

milk 258 

ornamental 258,  259 

plain 257 

raisin 258 

soft 258 

Frying 99 

basket 100 

pans,  cleaning  of ..  .421, 422 
philosophy  of 101 

Fuel,    degrees   of    heat 
from ; 8 

Furnace  pipes 476 

Fur,  hints  about 497,  498 

to  remove  from  kettles.421 

Furniture 449  to  453 

bruises  in 452 

buying  of .449 

care  of 450 

chintz  on  450 

chips  broken  from 452 

dark  stains  on 451 

ebonized 451 

finger  marks  on 451 

filling  for .....452 


INDEX 


537 


Pagk. 
Furniture,  hair  cloth  on.. 450 

ink  on 452 

insects  in 452 

mahogany 451 

moths  in 450 

oiled  walnut 451 

polishesfor 453 

scratched 450,452 

to  restore  dull 450 

upholstered 450 

white  spots  on 450 

willow 451 

worm  eaten 452 

Galvanized  iron  articles. 471 

Game 127  to  130 

buying.... 28,  29 

digestibility  of 127 

dressing  of 127 

garnishes  for 127 

overcoming  wild  flavor 

of 127 

tainted,  to  restore 127 

old.tocook 127 

bear 130 

blackbirds 127 

buffalo 130 

cranes 127 

ducks 127 

grouse 128 

herons 127 

opossums 130 

partridges ■  ...128 

pigeons 128 

plover 128 

prairie  chickens 129 

quail  129 

rabbits 129 

raccoons 130 

small  birds 129 

snipe 129 

squabs 128 

squirrels - 130 

goose,  stuffing  for  roast.125 

tainted,  to  restore 37 

to  keep 37 

to  ship 37 

venison        130 

woodchucks 130 

woodcock 129 

Garbage  pail  or  barrel . .  .426 

Garlic 50 

butter 88 

vinegar 94 

Gas  fixtures  469 

Gases  in  meat  pies 123 

Gastric  juice,  action  of. . .  12 

Geese,  to  buy 29 

to  cook 127 

to  kill  29 

Gelatine 15,49,  95 

nutritive  value  of  272 

preparations 272  to  275 

to  prepare 272 

stains  of    501 

Gelatinoids,  the 15 

Gems,  graham 194 

wheat       194 

German  cookery ...  395  to  397 

bretzeln     295 

chickens,  to  cook 395 

chocolate  molds 396 

dicke  milch 395 

egg  mold .396 

frothed  milk ....396 

grutze 396 

gulasch 396 

knodeln 396 

koche 396 

neun-loth  pudding 396 

nudels 396 

potato  mold 396 

sauerbraten 397 

33 


Page. 
German  cookery. 

sticklerspersgrod 397 

German  silver 469 

Ghee 144 

Gherkins,  pickled 336 

Giblets 124 

gravy 126 

Gilding,  for  pastry 207 

on  silk,  etc 510 

Gilt  mountings 469 

Ginger,  adulteration  of  ..406 

beverage 354 

biscuits 262 

cookies 261 

drops 261 

its  origin,  etc 35 

nuts 261 

pop 366 

preserves 320, 321 

sherbet 283 

snaps ..262 

vinegar 94 

Gingerbread 254,  255 

icing  for 258 

mixing,  etc 238 

hard 254 

hot  water 254 

ormskirk 255 

raisin 255 

rich  soft 254 

spice 255 

soft   255 

sour  cream ,.255 

sour  milk. 255 

sugar  255 

Ginghams,  to  wash 526 

Glaces   290 

Glaire,  to  make 487 

Glass, imitation  ground.. 463 

ink  for 509 

to  cut 464 

to  frost  it 463 

to  pulverize 464 

stains  on 462 

stoppers,  to  remove ...  464 

Glassware,  to  anneal 462 

washing  of 420,462 

Glazing 102 

Gliadin 179 

Globes,  glass,  to  clean 463 

Gloves,  hints  about 495 

Glucose 16 

Glues  506,  507 

stains  of 501 

Gluten 32 

composition  of 179 

Gnats 614 

Gniocchi  of  semolina. ....  398 

Goat'smilk, 366 

artificial 366 

Goatskin,  to  clean 448 

Gold,  to  clean ..469 

mercury  on 471 

lace,  to  clean 469 

embroidery, to  clean... 528 

Goose,  cooking  of 126 

Gooseberry 211 

canning  of 328,331 

catsup 343 

cheese   315 

composition  of 295,  298 

compote  of 308 

cream 273 

dried 302 

fool 306 

jam 317 

jelly 312 

preserves 321 

pudding 220 

shrub 354 

spiced 342 

soy 344 


Page. 

Gooseberry,  tarts 214 

to  serve 298 

trifle 306 

vinegar 346 

Gout,  food  for 363 

Graham,  biscuit 190 

bread 188 

crackers 192 

crumpets 195 

diamonds 192 

flour,  to  buy,  etc 33 

gems 194 

loaf  cake .250 

pudding 220 

rolls 192 

Granites 282 

Granite  ware, cleaning  of  .421 

Granula 200 

Grapes,  canning  of  ...328,  331 

catsup 343 

composition  of 295,  298 

crystalized 294 

jam 317 

jelly 313 

juice  and  almonds 354 

marmalade 314 

origin  of ,  etc 298 

pickled 340 

pie 211 

preserves 321 

soy  344 

spiced 342 

to  keep - 42 

to  serve 298 

Grass,  stains  from .600 

Grates,  rusting  of 475 

Gravy,  how  to  make 105 

stains  from 500 

Grease,  stains  from.. 500,  501 

Grebe  feathers 491 

Greeks,  the  cookery  of . . .  10 

Grenadine,  to  clean 627 

Greens.. 165 

beet 160 

Greengages 300 

nature  of 300 

preserves 321 

Griddle  cakes 196  to  198 

apple 196 

buckwheat 197 

cornmeal 197 

flannel 198 

graham 197 

oatmeal 197 

pease 197 

raised 197 

rice 197 

squash 197 

stale  bread 197 

strawberries  with 197 

syrup  for 196 

the  griddle 196 

to  keep  batter  sweet 196 

Griddle,  for  cakes. .196 

Griddles,  soap  stone 422 

Grilling 95 

Grindstones 459 

Griskin 119 

Groceries,  buying  of 31 

to  keep 44 

Groats 33 

Ground  cherry,  the 209 

Grouse,  to  cook 128 

Gruels 367 

Grutze..... 396 

Gulasch 396 

Gum 17 

stains  of 601 

Gumbo  soup 57 

Guinea  fowls 125 

Guns,  to  clean 470 

Hair,  curled,  to  clean. . .  .491 


538 


INDEX 


Page. 

Hair  on  furniture 460 

Halibut,  pickled .-. 73 

steaks. 73 

Ham,  baked 118 

balls 118 

boiled 118 

broiled 118 

buying 28 

composition  of 104 

and  veal  pie 113 

salad 152 

ornamenting 260 

to  cure  410,411 

Westphalian 411 

with  eggs 140 

Hamburg  beef 412 

cream 269 

steak 110 

Hares,  to  buy 29 

to  cook 127,129 

Harvest  bugs 514 

Hash 131  to  132 

Hasty  pudding 200 

Hats,  hints  about 496, 497 

Headcheese. 120 

Heat  for  disinfecting 438 

Hectograph,  substitute . .  510 

Herbs,  buying 31 

todry 41 

Herons,  to  cook 127 

Hickory-nut  cake 251 

cookies 262 

jumbles 262 

pie 211 

Hinges,  to  stop  creaking. 431 

Hoe  cake 193 

Hominy 32,199 

croquettes 134 

to  buy 33 

Honey,  adulteration  of  ..406 

artificial,  to  make 358 

candy 293 

to  keep 46 

vinegar 346 

Horn,  buttons 456 

Horn,  hints  about 456 

substitute  for 455 

to  weld  506 

Horseradish,  adultera- 
tion of 406 

butter 88 

origin,  etc 90 

sauce 89,  90 

to  keep 40 

vinegar 94 

House  cleaning 432 

Housewife's  aim,  the 24 

Huckleberry,  the 297 

canning  of 328 

composition  of 297 

dumplings t.  ..225 

pie 211 

preserves 321 

Hulled  corn 200 

Hydrochloric  acid 499 

Ice  cream 276  to  282 

arrow-root  for 276 

canned  fruits  for 276 

coloring  for 278 

condensed  milk  for 276 

cream  for 276 

flavoring 276 

freezing 276,277 

gelatine  for 276,  280 

ice  for 276 

lemon  juice  for 276 

molds  for 277 

of  2  colors 278 

orange  juice  for 276 

packing  down 277 

principles  involved  in 
making 277 


Page. 

Ice  cream,  salt  for. 276 

simple  syrup  for 278 

sugar  for 276 

Ice  creams,  almond 279 

baked  apple 280 

bisque 280 

brown  bread 280 

caramel 280 

chocolate 280 

coffee 280 

fruit 280 

lemon „ 280 

macedoines 281 

macaroon 280 

mousse 281 

Neapolitan 279 

nut 280 

orange 281 

Philadelphia 278 

pineapple 281 

pistachio 281 

tea 280 

tutti  frutti 281 

vanilla 281 

Ice,  for  the  sickroom 363 

hints  about 426 

Ice  house,  the. 425 

Ice  water,  to  keep  it 426 

Icing,  for  cake 255  to  260 

boiled 258 

coffee 258 

cookies,  etc 258 

orange 258 

ornamental 258 

paper  cones  for 268 

Iceland  moss,  cooking  of  .368 

origin,  etc ^....368 

Imperial  granum 200 

Inks 508,509 

Ink,  stains  of 601,  502 

restore  obliterated., 485, 509 

Insect  pests 512  to  616 

on  trees,  etc  514,  616 

Intoxicating  liquors 11 

Invalid  cookery . .  .359  to  368 

appetite  of  invalids 363 

apple  water 365 

arrowroot.. 366 

arrowroot  blanc  mange.368 

asses'  milk 366 

asses'  milk,  artificial.... 366 

barley  water 365 

beef  tea 365 

beef  tea,  value  of 361 

boiled  flour 368 

broiled  beef  juice 364 

broth,  value  of  361 

buttermilk  for  invalids.361 

chicken  broth 364 

chocolate,  value  of 362 

coffee,  value  of 362 

cracker  panada 368 

cream  for  invalids 361 

delicate    dish  for  in- 
valids  368 

diet 363 

egg  and  lemon  juice ....  365 

egg  and  limewater 365 

egg  drink 365 

eggs  for  invalids . . .  .361, 364 

eggs,  steamed 364 

elm  jelly 367 

essence  of  meat 364 

fever,  milk  for 361 

flaxseed  tea 366 

food  for  disordered 

stomach 361 

frangipane .....366 

goat's  milk 366 

goat's  milk,  artificial... 366 

gruels 367 

not  lemonade 365 


Page. 
Invalid  cookery,  Iceland 

moss 368 

Irish  moss 368 

licorice  tea 365 

lime  water 366 

linseed  tea 366 

meat  patty 364 

milk  porridge ..367 

milk  soup 364 

milk  toast.  368 

mutton  broth....  364 

mutton  tea  365 

oatmeal  jelly 367 

raw  beef  sandwiches.. . .  364 

rennet  whey 365 

restorative  jelly 367 

rice  and  milk 366 

rice  blanc  mange 368 

rice  jelly  367 

rice  water 365 

sago  blanc  mange 368 

Salisbury  steaks 110 

sippets  368 

slippery  elm  tea 366 

steak,  broiled 364 

stewed  beef  essence  . .  364 

suetand  milk. 366 

Swisscream 366 

taganrok  blanc  mange.368 
tapioca  blanc  mange. .  .368 

tapioca  jelly  367 

tea,  value  of 362 

toasted  mutton 364 

toast,  value  of 362 

toastwater        365 

veal  tea 365 

vegetables  for  invalids.362 

whey  for  invalids 361 

winejelly 368 

wine  whey 366 

Irish  moss  , 368 

blanc  mange 266 

Irish  stew       116 

Iron  and  steel 469 

Iron,  in  food.  18 

sulphateof  440 

to  keep  from  rust 470 

to  remove  paint  from.. 470 

Ironing  clothes    621 

Iron  mold,  stains  of 502 

Isinglass 272 

adulteration  of 406 

Italian  cookery 397,  398 

bracciolette 398 

croccante 398 

curds 1*7 

gniocchi 398 

minestra 398 

minestrone. 397 

polenta  with  gravy 398 

ricotta 398 

risotto 398 

Ivorine 456 

Ivory,  artificial 465 

hints  about 455 

Jamaica  pepper,  origin..  34 

Jams   316to318 

candying  of., 310 

coloring  for 310 

fruit  for 309 

keeping  of 46,  310 

putting  in  glasses 310 

sugar  for 309 

to  test 314 

utensils  for 309 

Jam,  apple 317 

barberry 317 

blackberry 317 

cherry 317 

currant  317 

gooseberry 317 

grape  317 


INDEX 


539 


Pack. 

Jam,  orange 317 

pineapple 317 

plum 317 

quince 317 

raspberry 317 

rhubarb 317 

shortcake 215 

strawberry 318 

tomato        318 

Japan  for  old  trays 456 

Japanned  ware 456 

Jasper 457 

Javelle  water 510 

Jellies 309to313 

bags  for 311 

beverages 354 

coloring  for 310 

composition  of 310 

fruit  for    309 

hardening  of 311 

keeping  of       ...   310 

preventing  mold  in.       310 
principles  involved   in 

making 310 

removing  from  glasses. 311 

sugar  for 309 

to  make.  311 

to  test 311 

utensils  for  making — 309 

Jelly,  apple    312 

blackberry ....312 

crab  apple 312 

cranberry -. 312 

cherry 312 

dried  apple 312 

damson.      313 

elm 367 

grape 313 

gooseberry 312 

green  grape 313 

peach 313 

pear    313 

pie         211 

plum  and  apple 312 

quince 313 

raspberry 312 

red  currant 312 

restorative 367 

rhubarb   313 

strawberry 312 

tutti  frutti 313 

various  kinds 312 

wild  plum 313 

wine 368 

Jet  jewelry,  to  mend 473 

Jewelry,  care  of 473 

Jewish  cookery 400 

amnastich 400 

matso  cakes       400 

passo ver  pudding 400 

Johnny  cake ..192, 193 

Jolly  boys 230 

Jumbles..     262 

Keeping  provisions 36 

Kerosene,  using  for  fires. 476 

for  washing 517 

Kettles,  care  of 421  to  423 

Kid,  tocook 117 

Kiss  pudding 271 

Kisses 263 

Kitchen,  the... 416 

Kneading     180 

Knives,  hints  about.. 420,  421 
to  clean  fish  odor  from.  67 
Knife  handles,  cement 

for 421 

Knodeln 396 

Koche 396 

Kouftas 135 

Koumiss 354 

Kromeskies 134 

Labarraque's  solution... 439 


Page. 

Labels,  to  fasten  to  metal.507 
Laces,  to  clean,  etc... 525,  526 

Lacquers 467,  468, 472 

Lactolene 142 

Lactose       16 

Lady  fingers 263 

Lamb,  buying  of 27 

cooking  of 115  to  117 

composition  of 104 

cutting  it  up 408 

escaloped 116 

grilled   117 

liver,  curried 117 

pie     116 

to  keep 37 

with  rice 115 

Lamb's  lettuce 152 

Lamps,  care  of 465,  466 

substitute  for 466 

Lard,  adulteration  of 406 

to  bleach 414 

tobuy 33 

to  keep 46,414 

to  make 414 

Larder,  the 36 

Larding .102 

Lardoons  102 

Larnande's  mixture     . .  440 

Laundry.the  517to628 

a  useful  hint 522 

bed  ticks 628 

bleaching 520,628 

bluings ..    519 

bombazine 627 

cashmere    ....627 

chamois  skin 524 

chenille 528 

chintz , |27 

clotheslines 620 

clothes  pins 620 

coat  collars 628 

crape 627 

curtains ..526, 527,  528 

drying  clothes 619 

enamels..  521 

faded  hangings 628 

flannels    522 

flat-irons 521 

folding  clothes 520 

ginghams 526 

gold  embroidery 628 

grenadine     627 

heightof  tubs 518 

infant's  clothing 522 

ironing 621 

kerosene,  for  washing.. 617 

laces ■625,626 

linen 524 

muslins 627 

nankeen 627 

plush 527 

potato  water •  ••••f3£ 

prints 526 

rinsing 619 

sarcinets 526 

satin 524,526 

satines 626 

scorches 622 

setting  colors 528 

silks.. 523 

silver  embroidery 528 

soaking  clothes 618 

soaps 518 

soap  bark 519 

starching 520, 521 

stockings. .....522 

turpentine,  use  of 518 

veils 526 

velveteens 527 

velvets 527 

washing  clothes 517 

washing  fluids £18 


.  Page. 

Laundry,  washing  powd- 

GTS .  51 8 

woolen  goods .".*.'.... 524,  525 

wringers 519 

Lawns,  to  kill  worms  in . .  432 

Lead,  chloride  of 440 

Leather,  acids  on 487 

enameled    487 

hints  about 486  to  489 

ink  for 509 

mildew  on 487 

moldy 487 

patent 487 

to  clean  buff 487 

to  clean  morocco 487 

to  make  vermin  proof  ..487 
to  make  waterproof  ...487 

to  soften 488 

to  restore  color  to 488 

to  tan  small  skins .487 

Leek,  the 50 

Legumen 15 

Lemonade 354,365 

Lemon  beer 356 

butter 306 

cake 251 

catsup   343 

custard 268 

extract 239 

fritters 232 

jelly    271,273,306 

juice,  to  extract 276 

juice,  to  keep 43 

paste.  .  316 

peel,  to  grate  240 

pickled     336 

pie 211 

preserves 321,  322 

pudding 221 

origin  of ,  etc 43 

salad 152 

sauce 90 

sherbet 283 

snaps 263 

syrup 357 

tarts 214 

to  keep 43 

vinegar. 94 

Lettuce,  buying 31 

for  salads 149 

sandwiches 202 

salad 152 

Lice 514 

Lightning  eradicator 604 

Lightningrods 432 

Lights,  the .407 

Lime,  chloride  of... 438 

for  children 363 

in  food 18 

stains  of 502 

water  365,611 

Limes,  pickled 336 

preserved 322 

Linen,  to  wash,  etc 524 

Linoleum 449 

Liver  108,  117 

Lobsters 79,  80 

au  gratin 79 

boiled 79 

broiled 79 

butter 53 

buttered 79 

buying 30 

canapes 79 

coral 79 

creamed 80 

croquettes... 134 

curry 80 

deviled 80 

patties 80 

sauce 90 

sandwiches.  •• 303 


540 


INDEX 


Page. 

Lobsters,  salad 152 

stewed 80 

to  kill 79 

Locks,  to  make   them 

work 431 

Lozenges 289 

Lubricator,  to  make 510 

Lye,  stains  of 602 

Macaroni  and  milk 366 

baked 166 

for  invalids 362 

fried 166 

how  made 166 

mites  in 46 

to  boil 98 

to  buy    33 

with  cheese 147,166 

with  milk  sauce 166 

with  tomatoes 177 

Macaroons. 263 

Mace  35 

Macedoines.. 281 

Macedoin  of  vegetables.. 394 

Macedonian  jelly 274 

Mackerel,  buying 30 

creamed  salt 73 

Mackintoshes,  care  of ....  460 
Mahogany,  hints  about.. 451 

Majolica,  to  clean 462 

Malic  acid 18 

Maltine 362 

Maltose  183 

Mandram  sauce  .       90 

Mangoe  pickles  336,  337 

Maple  sugar,  cakes 263 

to  keep 46 

Maple  syrup,  substitute 

for.  196 

Maraschino.. 239 

Marble,  hints  about.457  to  459 

Margaiin 144 

Marinate,  to 149 

Marjoram 41 

Marketing 25  to  35 

Marmalades  . .  309,  313  to  315 

candying  of 310 

keeping  of.  310 

meaning  of 313 

putting  in  jars 310 

totest.. 314 

wholesomeness  of 314 

apple 314 

apricot.  314 

blackberry , 315 

grape 314 

orange 314 

peach  314 

pear 314 

plum 314 

quince  314 

raspberry 315 

rhubarb 315 

strawberry 315 

tomato  315 

Marsh-mallows 290 

Marty nias,  pickled.. 336 

Matches,  hints  about 466 

Mate.. 353 

Mats      448 

Matso  cakes 400 

Mattings,  care  of 449 

Mayonnaise 150 

Mead  355 

Meal,  mites  in 46 

Meats   95  to  129 

action  of  hard  water  on.104 
action  of  salt  on.104, 105, 332 
antiseptics  for  keeping. 332 

baking. 96 

barding 102 

basting 96 

beef ,  to  cook 106 


Page. 

Meats,  beefsteak 110 

boiling 96 

boning  of 102 

braising 101 

broiling 95 

buying  of 26  to  28 

canning  of 332 

cold 105 

composition  of 104 

curing  of 410  to  412 

cutting  it  up 407  to  411 

daubing..  102 

dripping  for  frying 103 

pickle  for 410,411,412 

to  smoke . .  413 

egg  and  bread-crumb- 

•     ing 103 

effect  of  saltpetre  on.  ..332 

essence  of 364 

freezing  to  keep  it 332 

frozen,  to  thaw 37 

frying 99 

fricasseeing 99 

game 127 

garnishing  of 106 

glazing 102 

gravy  for 105 

grilling 95 

ham        117 

head  cheese 120 

kid. 117 

lamb,  to  cook 115, 117 

to  lard 102 

minced.  131 

mutton,  to  cook 115 

pie.    ..  123 

pies,  dangerous  gases  in. 123 

pork,  to  cook 117 

potted     Ill 

poultry 120 

preserving Ill,  332 

principles  of  cooking...  95 

processes  of  cooking 95 

putrid 26 

roasting 96 

sauteing 101 

sausage 111,120 

salt,  to  boil 98 

sheep's  brains 117 

souse  119 

steaming 101 

sweetbreads 114 

tainted,  to  restore 36 

thawingfrozen 104 

to  keep    36,46 

to  make  tough  tender..  103 

tostew 98 

tripe 110 

veal    112 

washingit 103 

Medicinal  terms,  etc 8 

Melons,  origin,  etc 298 

to  keep 43 

to  serve 298 

salad      152 

Mercury,  bichloride  of..  .439 

on  gold  or  silver 471 

Mercurial  ointment 502 

Meringue    207 

Metals  and  metal  ware . . 

466  to474 

Metric  System,  the 8 

Mezzotints,  hints  about.. 

482,483 

Mica.toclean 475 

Mice 516 

Microbes 326 

Mildew 502 

Milk 142,143 

adulteration  of 405 

action  of  salt  on 45 

asses' 366 


Page. 

Milk,  buttermilk 143 

buying 31 

canned 142 

cause  of  souring 142 

composition  of 142 

condensed 142 

curd 142 

diseased 405 

effect  of  acid  on ... .  142, 145 

goat's 366 

nutritive  value  of 142 

sauce  90 

solidified 142 

sour,  uses  of 143 

stains  from 502 

sugar  of 142 

toast 368 

tokeep 44 

to  sweeten  when  turned.  45 

Mince  meats 131,212 

canned 212,  332 

mock     212 

Mince  pies 211 

Minestra 398 

Mint 41 

sauce 90 

vinegar       94 

Mirotin  of  veal 394 

Mirrors,  hints  about 462 

Mites 45,  46 

Mock  duck 108 

Molasses,  candy. 291 

composition  of 179 

for  cooking 234,236 

stains  from. 502 

vinegar.  346 

Mold,  what  it  is,  etc...  .  310 

Monk's  beard 151 

Moorish  trays 457 

Morocco  leather 487 

Mosquitoes 514 

Mother  of  pearl 456 

Moths      515 

Mountain  cookery 240 

Mousse 281 

Mucidin  .......     179 

Mucilage,  its  nature 17 

Mucilages 507 

Mud  stains 502 

Muffins 194  to  196 

buckwheat 194 

cornmeal 195 

gluten  .  195 

graham 195 

entire  wheat 195 

raised 195 

rice 195 

rye 195 

tea...    194 

white  flour 194 

Mulberry,  composition  of 

.295,297 

preserves 322 

Muriatic  acid 499 

use  in  coo  king 236 

Mush,  buckwheat 199 

cornmeal 198 

fried 199 

gluten 199 

graham 199 

green  corn 199 
ominy 199 

oatmeal 199 

rye 199 

Mushrooms,  buying 31 

catsup 343 

fried 166 

nutritive  value 167 

pickled 337 

sauce 90 

soup 58 

tokeep 40 


INDEX 


541 


Page. 

Mushrooms,  stewed .  166 

Muskallonge 75 

Muskmelon,  origin,  etc... 298 

preserves. 323 

Muslins,  to  wash..-. 627 

Mussels 80 

Mustard,  adulteration  of  .406 

French 91 

German 91 

prepared 90 

pickles... 337 

sauce 90 

use  of,  etc 91 

Mutton,  buying 27 

composition  of 104 

cooking  of 115  to  117 

its  digestibility 115 

boiled 115 

chops 115 

Irish  stew. 116 

kid 117 

location  of. parts  in 408 

patties 115 

pie 116 

rechauffe. 116 

tea 365 

toasted 364 

to  keep 37 

with  rice 116 

roly  poly. 117 

Scotch  stew 116 

scrambled.    116 

sheep's  brains.  117 

boiled  sheep's  tongues.. 116 

and  tomatoes 116 

Nails    454 

Nalym 401 

Nan  keen,  to  wash 527 

Nasturtiums,  pickled 337 

Nausea,  food  for    363 

Nectar,  blackberry 363 

Nectarines,  canning  of .  ..329 

preserves 323 

tokeep 43 

Neroli,  oil  of 299 

Nettle  stings  613 

Neun-loth  pudding 396 

Newspapers,  uses  of 511 

Nickle.. ..471 

Nickleon  stoves  475 

Nitrate  of  silver  stains.  ..502 

Nitrogenous  foods  15 

Noise,  to  deaden 454 

Noodles  54 

soup 58 

Nougat 290 

Noyau 239 

Nudels 64,396 

Nutmeg 34,  91 

Nuts,  to  keep 43 

salad.  152 

to  serve .301 

Nut-shells,  stains  of 501 

Oatmeal, bread 189 

cakes. 196 

composition  of 179 

drink. 355 

mush     199 

for  invalids 362 

to  buy,  etc 33 

Odors,   removing   disa- 
greeable  422 

Oil ,  anti-corrosive 511 

for  frying 100 

tokeep 511 

to  unite  with  water 511 

stains  from 500,  501 

Oilcloth 448,449 

made  from  carpet 449 

Okra,  buying 31 

cooking  167 

composition  of 155 


Page. 

Olein 144 

Oleomargarine 144 

composition  of 142 

Olives,  to  serve 298 

use  of 298,299 

oil 144 

Ollapodrida 399 

Omelets 139,140 

Onions,  a  la  Bordeaux. ...  167 

boiled  167 

composition  of 165 

escaloped 168 

fried 168 

gruel 367 

how  to  peel ,..167 

in  soup 60 

juice,  to  extract 50 

origin,  etc 168 

pickled 337 

soup 58 

Spanish 168 

to  keep  40 

to  kill  odor  of 167 

vinegar 94 

with  cream  167 

Opossums,  to  cook 130 

Orangeade       355 

Orange,  cake        252 

composition  of 299 

compote  of 308 

cookies 262 

cream 274 

extractof... 239 

float 270 

flower  water 240 

fritters 232 

jam 317 

jelly : 274 

juice,  to  extract  276 

marmalade      314 

nutritive  value,  etc 299 

paste    316 

peel,  candied 294 

peel,  to  grate 240 

pie 212 

preserves 322,  323 

pudding 221 

salad 152 

shortcake 215 

tokeep 43 

syrup 357 

Orgeate 355 

Osmazome 49 

Ossein  15 

Ostkaka  .. 268 

Ostrich  feathers 491 

Otamo  ...      ..    399 

Oven,  to  test  for  baking, 

181  237 
Oxalic  acid . '. . .  18',  213,  307"  499 

Oysters 80  to  84 

broiled 81 

buying5 30 

canned  ....  80 

composition  of 66 

catsup 343 

creamed 81 

croquettes 134 

deviled  81 

digestibility  of 81 

escaloped 81 

fricassee  of 82 

fried  81 

fritters 82,232 

and  macaroni 82 

omelet 82 

on  the  half  shell 82 

panned 82 

patties 82 

pickled 82,  337 

pie  82 

pigs  in  blanket 83 


Page. 

Oysters,  raw 83 

salad       153 

smothered.. 83 

soup  ...  65 

steamed 83 

^w  83 

stuffing 70,122 

toast ....  ;    83 

to  keep      38 

unshelled  83 

when  in  season 80 

Ox-gall 499 

Pails  490 

garbage 425 

Paint 477  to  479 

brushes 479 

stains  of 502 

Paintings,  to  clea  n,  etc. . .  481 

Panada,  cracker 368 

Pancreatic  juice,  the  ac- 
tion of .  13 

Pandowdy  225 

Pantry,  the .419 

Pans,  cleaning  of 422 

Paper,  cones  for  icing.... 258 
copying  .  ..  ...      509 

hints  about    .   484,  485 

to  stick  to  metal 508 

Paraguay  tea 353 

Parasols  .497 

Parchment,  hints  about.. 485 

Parian  china,  to  clean 462 

Parmesan  cheese 146 

Parsley 41 

fried ....168 

pickled .338 

vinegar 94 

Parsnip,  balls 168 

boiled 168 

fried 168 

origin,  etc  168 

stewed 168 

Partridges,  boned 128 

to  buy 29 

roast         ..  .128 

Pastes,  adhesive 507,  508 

offruit 315 

rice  506 

Pasteboard,  waterproof  ..484 

Pastry  204to215 

bag,  to  make  a 418 

baking  tins  for 206 

butter  for 204,206 

corn  meal  in  207 

flour 33,183,204,234 

its  digestibility  207 

method  of  making 204 

ornamenting ..260 

oven  for 206 

pies  208 

principles  involved  in 

making 207 

shortcakes 215 

tarts 214 

to  make 204 

to   prevent   juice   run- 
ning out       206 

the  two  crusts  for 206 

Patties,  green  corn 194 

Patty  cakes. 262 

Peaches,  baked 306 

butter 306 

canning  of 327,  329,  331 

chips      303 

composition  of 295,  299 

compote  of .308 

cobler 212 

cream 274 

crystalized.. 294 

dried 303 

fried 306 

jelly 313 


542 


INDEX 


Page. 

Peaches,  mangoes 337 

marmalade 314 

paste 316 

pickled 341 

pie 212 

preserves 323 

pudding 222 

sauce  of  dried .305 

spiced    342 

shortcake 215 

stains  of 503 

to  keep 43 

toserve 299 

to  skin 306,327 

Peanut,  candy 293 

composition  of 295 

oil    144 

Pearlash 236 

Pearls,  care  of 473 

Pears,  baked 306 

canning  of 328 

chipped    306 

composition  of 295,  299 

compote  of 308 

drying  of 302 

jelly  313 

marmalade 314 

pickled 341 

pie    212 

preserves 323 

spiced 342 

to  keep 43 

toserve .299 

Peas,  buying 31 

canning  of  329,330 

composition  of 155 

cooking  of 156,169 

green,  to  keep 40 

split 169 

soup 58 

Pectose 17,310 

effect  of  fermentation 

on 356 

Pepper,  adulteration  of  ..404 

catsup 344 

cayenne 35 

Jamaica  34 

its  origin,  etc 35 

Peppers,  pickled 338 

Persian  beverage  355 

Persimmons,  nature  of..  .299 

tokeep  43 

toserve  299 

Perspiration,  stains  of.  ..503 

Pewter 471 

Phene  499 

Pianos,  care  of 452,  453 

Piano  polish 453 

Piccalilli  338 

Pickles    333  to  341 

adulteration  of 403 

brine  for 333 

coloring  them  333 

digestibility  of 334 

keeping  them  333 

spices  for 333 

using  alum  for 333 

vinegarfor  333 

Pickles,  sour 334  to  339 

artichokes      334 

beans 334 

beets    334 

butternut  338 

cabbage  334 

carrots      334 

cauliflower  334 

celery 334 

cherry    334 

chili  sauce 339 

chow  chow .'.  339 

corn 334 

cucumber 334,  335 


Page. 

Pickles,  sour,  eggs 336 

French 338 

gherkins 336 

green  pepper  mangoes.. 337 

freen  tomato. 338 
ersey  336 

lemons 336 

limes  336 

mangoe 336,337 

martynias ,....336 

mixed 337 

mushroom 337 

mustard 337 

nasturtium 337 

ornamental 338 

onion 337 

oyster 82,337 

parsley 338 

peach  mangoes 337 

peppers  337 

piccalilli 338 

Russia 338 

tomato 338 

turnips 338 

walnuts 338 

Pickles,  sweet 339  to  341 

method  of  making 339 

spices  for 339 

apples 339 

beets 340 

blackberries 340 

blueberries 340 

cabbage 340 

cantelope  340 

cauliflower 340 

cherries.. 340 

citron    341 

crab  apples 339 

cucumber 340 

currants 340 

figs 340 

grapes 340 

peaches 341 

pears 341 

pineapple 341 

plums 340 

quinces 341 

raisins 341 

raspberries     340 

strawberries 340 

tomato  .341 

watermelon  rind 341 

Pictures  480,481 

Picture,  cord  482 

frames 481,482 

Pie  plates,  cleaning  of       422 
Pies               ...           204  to  214 
to  prevent  juice  run- 
ning out 206 

apple    208 

apple  a  la  mode 208 

apple  custard  208 

banana        208 

beefsteak 110 

carrot    209 

cherry  ..209 

chocolate  209 

cocoanut       209 

corn-starch .209 

cream  ..         209,210 

cream  filling     210 

crust  for 207,208 

custard      ...  210 

date  210 

elderberry 210 

fish 76 

fish  and  oyster 76 

fried  ..  ..     Sin 

frosted  custard 210 

fruit 210 

gooseberry 211 

grape 211 


Page. 

Pies,  green  currant 210 

ground  cherry 209 

hash 132 

hickory-nut 211 

huckleberry 211 

jelly 211 

lemon 211 

meat 123 

meringue  for 207 

mince        211,212 

mock  mince 212 

mutton  or  lamb 116 

orange 212 

peach    212 

peach  cobler 212 

pear  .- 212 

pineapple ....212 

pot  apple 208 

potato 213 

prune.... 213 

pumpkin 213 

raisin 213 

rice 213 

rhubarb 213 

squash 213 

souse 119 

strawberry .213 

summer  mince 212 

sweet  potato  .213 

tomato  214 

transparent 214 

vinegar 214 

Washington 214 

Pig.roast 118 

Pig's  feet,  pickle  for 412 

boiled      118 

Pigeons,  cooking  of. .  .127, 128 

pie 128 

roast 128 

squabs 128 

Pike's  Peak,  cooking  on .  240 

Pilaff 133 

Pilau 400 

Pimento,  adulteration  of.406 

its  origin,  etc    34 

Pineapple      acid  in  the 

rind        300 

beverage 355 

canning  of 329,331 

composition,  etc 300 

cream    274 

dried 303 

jam  317 

jelly    274 

pickled 341 

pie       ...212 

preserves 323 

sherbet 283 

syrup  358 

tarts       214 

tokeep       43 

toserve       .  ..     .299 

Pipes,  flushing  of..    .    .      424 

hints  about        430 

leaks  in  424,430 

Piping  259 

Pistachio  nuts  34 

Pitch,  stains  of —  503 

Plaster  casts,  bints  about.457 
Plas  er,  boles  in.  ..  4*6 

Plaster  of  paris,  mixing 

of  457 

Plated  ware.  .  471 

Plate  powder  .         473 

Plovers,  to  cook . .        127, 1:.'8 
Pluck,  the  ..  4d7 

Plum,  cake *. 252 

c.nningof  328,329,3:1 

charlotte 306 

cheese       ..        315 

composition  of 295,  300 

crystalized 294 


INDEX 


543 


Page. 

Plum,  damson  sauce 306 

dried 303 

extract  of 239 

jam  317 

marmalade 314 

paste 316 

pickled  340 

preserves 333 

soy  .....344 

to  keep 43 

to  serve 297,300 

Plush,  hints  about 494 

to  clean 627 

Polpetti  147 

Polishing  materials.. 473, 611 

Pocock  pickle       .411 

Polenta  with  gravy 398 

Pomegranite 300 

Pones 193 

Pop,  ginger 356 

Pop-overs  196 

Poppy-seed  oil 144 

Porcelain,  kettle 417 

toclean 462 

pans,  to  clean 463 

Pork,  and  eggs 119 

buying 28 

cake  252 

cooking  of 117  to  120 

composition  of 104 

chine  of 118,119 

.  cutlets 119 

cutting  it  up 409 

friedsalt  119 

ham  balls 118 

baked  ham 117 

boiled  ham 118 

boiled  pig's  feet 118 

broiled  ham 118 

head  cheese 120 

rechauffe 119 

roast  pig 118 

salt  pork  dinner 120 

sausages 120,413 

spare  ribs 118 

souse 119 

steaks 119 

to  freshen  salt 117 

to  keep 37 

trichina  in 117 

with  sweet  potatoes 173 

worst 120 

Porphyry 457 

Porridge,  bean 66 

milk  367 

Portieres,  toclean 528 

Potash  in  food  18 

Potential  energy  of  food.  19 
Potatoes,  a  la  Maitre 

d'hotel 172 

baked 170 

balls  170 

boiled 170 

boston  chips....  „ 170 

broiled  170 

buying  31 

cake. 170 

composition  of 155 

creamed ...171 

croquettes 134 

fried    171 

fritters    233 

for  clarifying  fat 229 

frozen        169 

how  to  cook 169 

Lyonnaise  171 

mashed 171 

mold 396 

origin,  etc 172 

pie 213 

puff 172 

pudding ....222 


Page. 

Potatoes,  salad 153 

Saratoga 171 

sprouting  of 170 

soup 59 

stew  172 

stuffed 172 

sweet 173 

to  keep 40 

turnovers 171 

vinegar 346 

warmed  in  gravy 171 

warmed  over 172 

with  cheese 171 

with  eggs 171 

water 523 

Pot-pie 108,  113 

Potted  fish  or  meat.. . .76,  111 
Poor  people,  importance 

of  knowledge  to 11 

Poultry,  boning  of 121 

buying  28 

breakfast  dish  of 127 

chestnut  stuffing  for ....  122 

cooking  of 120  to  127 

chickens 122 

ducks 125 

drawing  of 121 

fowls 121,  124,125 

garnishes  for 121 

goose 125 

guinea  fowls  125 

oyster  stuffing  for 122 

plain  dressing  for 121 

stuffing  for 121,122 

to  select 120 

to  freshen  when  strong.  37 

to  keep 37 

to  truss 121 

turkey 125 

Powders,  for  flavoring 93 

Prairie  chickens,  to  cook 

127,129 

Prawns,  buttered 78 

buying; 30 

curried 79 

potted 79 

Prepared  caramel 257 

Preserves 309,  318  to  325 

candyingof 310 

coloring  for 310 

cooking  the  fruit 318 

fruitfor 309 

hardening  fruit  for 318 

keeping  of 310,318 

sugar  for 309 

syrup  for    318 

utensils  for 309 

Preserves,  apple 319 

apricot 319,323 

barberry 319 

blackberry 319 

black  currants 320 

cantelope  rinds 325 

cherries 319 

citron  melon 319,  320 

crab  apple .319 

cranberry 320 

currant 319 

damson 321 

dewberry 319 

fig 320 

gooseberry 321 

grape      .321 

greengage 321 

green  ginger 320 

huckleberry 321 

lemon 321,322 

limes  322 

mock  ginger 321 

mulberry  322 

muskmelon 322 

nectarine 323 


Page. 

Preserves,  peach 323 

pear 323 

persimmon.... 323 

pineapple  333 

plum 323 

pumpkin 324 

quince 324 

orange 322 

orange  and  rhubarb ...  .323 

raspberry 324 

strawberry 324 

tomato 324 

tomato  fig 320 

watermelon  rinds 325 

Preserving  meat Ill 

Preserve  jars,  to  clean ...  .463 

Principles  of  cooking 95 

Prints,  to  wash  626 

Privies,  to  disinfect 440 

Processes    of    cooking 

meat 95 

Proteids,  the 15 

Provisions,  to  keep 36 

Prunes 300 

jelly 274 

pie 213 

sauce 307 

stewed 307 

Puddings 216  to  224 

baking  them 216 

boiling  them 216 

cloth  for 216 

creaming  butter  for 217 

steaming  them 216 

almond 217 

apple       217 

apple  Indian 217 

apple  tapioca 224 

baked  cottage 220 

baked  Indian 221 

berry 317 

bird's  nest 217 

black 317 

black  bread 218 

boiled  Indian 221 

bread 318 

bread  crumb 318 

cake 218 

canned 218 

charlotte 219 

cherry 219 

chocolate 219 

Christmas  219 

cocoanut  rice 219 

cocoanut  tapioca . .  224 

corn 163,219 

cottage 220 

corn-starch 219 

cracker 220 

Delmonico 220 

economical .320 

English  330 

English  plum 222 

farina 220 

gold 220 

gooseberry 220 

graham  230 

graham  minute 321 

Hanover 221 

hasty 200 

iced  strawbrery 281 

kiss  271 

layer 270 

lemon 231 

Lowell 221 

minute 221 

nesselrode 281 

neun-loth 396 

orange 221 

ornamenting 260 

Oxford 232 

passover 400 


544 


INDEX 


Page. 

Puddings,  peach 222 

plain  plum 222 

potato 222 

puff 222 

queen 222 

raspberry..... 222 

ratafia  223 

rhubarb 223 

rice 223,224 

rolypoly 223 

sago 223,224 

snow 275 

sponge 223 

steamed  .223 

steamed  bread 218 

steamed  cottage 220 

steamed  Indian 223 

steamed  peach 222 

steamed  puff 222 

steamed  graham 220 

suet 224 

tapioca 223,  224 

whortleberry 224 

Yorkshire 109 

Pudding  sauces 225  to  228 

Caramel  for 225 

caramel  syrup  for 225 

acid. 226 

berry 226 

brown 226 

cider 226 

cream 226 

Dutch 226 

foaming ...226 

fruit  juice  for 226,  330 

golden 226 

hard  lemon 226 

hard  vanilla 227 

jelly 226 

lemon ,327 

lombard 227 

maple  sugar 227 

milk f. 227 

molasses 227 

orange 227 

plain 227 

pineapple 227 

plum 227 

sweet  .. 227 

vanilla 227 

vinegar 228 

white 228 

Puff  paste 207,  208 

Puffs 264,271 

bread  196 

breakfast 196 

cream  244 

Pulses,  the  160 

Pumpkin,  butter 173 

canning  of .330 

composition  of 155 

for  winter. 174 

origin,  etc.... 173 

pie 213 

preserves 324 

soup 59 

to  keep 41 

Pumps,  hints  about 430 

Putrefaction 16 

Putrid  meat 26 

Quails,  to  cook 127,129 

Quenelles    54 

Quinces,  baked 307 

canning  of 328 

cheese  315 

drying  of 302 

jam .....317 

jelly 313 

marmalade 314 

origin  of 307 

pickled 341 

preserves 324 


Page. 

Quinces,  snow 271 

stewed 307 

Babbits,  to  buy 29 

to  cook 129 

to  kill  29 

soup 63 

Radishes 174 

Raccoons,  to  cook 130 

Eagout 99 

powder 93 

Eaisine 307 

Eaisins 34,300 

pie  213 

pickled...  341 

preparing  them  for  cake235 

Eamequins 394 

Range,  the 418 

Easpberry ,  acid 355 

canning  of 328 

composition  of 295 

marmalade 315 

jam. 317 

jelly 312 

nutritive  value  of 300 

paste  316 

pickled. 340 

preserves 324 

pudding 222 

shrub 355 

syrup 357 

to  serve 300 

vinegar....; 346 

water .355 

Eatafias,  to  make 293 

extracts 239 

pudding 223 

Eats 516 

Eecipes,  altering  of 51 

Eed  pepper  sauce 400 

Eef rigerators,  care  of 423 

Eennet      145 

custard „ 268 

to  prepare 146,  265,  413 

Eesin,  stains  of 503 

Ehubarb,  butter 307 

canning  of 328,331 

composition  of 295 

marmalade 315 

jam    317 

jelly 313 

neutralizing  acid  in 213 

origin  of,  etc 307 

pie 213 

preserves 323 

pudding 223 

stewed 307 

vinegar 346 

Eibbons 493 

Rice,  baked 174 

blanc  mange 266,  368 

boiled 174 

bread    188 

and  milk  366 

composition  of 155, 174 

cream    269,275 

croquettes  134 

for  invalids 362 

fritters    233 

griddle  cakes 197 

hint  about 223 

muffins 195 

jelly    367 

omelet 139 

origin,  etc 174 

pie 213 

pudding 223 

spider  cake 193 

soup 59 

steamed 174 

toboil 98 

tobuy 34 

tokeep 46 


Page. 

Rice,  water..... 365 

with  cheese 174 

Ricotta 398 

Rigor  mortis 36 

Rinsing  clothes 519 

Risotto  398 

Rocambole,  the 51 

Rolls,  coffee 192 

French 192 

graham. 192 

Parker  house ,  .192 

Roly  poly  cake 164 

meat 117 

Roofs  431 

Roasting  meat 96 

Rogrod 271 

Rope,  hints  about 461 

Rosewood,  furniture 452 

ink  on .452 

Rose  vinegar 94 

water 240 

Roux 86 

Rubber,  hints  about.. 459,  460 

rollers 459 

Rugs 448 

Rumford,  Count....  10,  22,  48 

Rusks    191 

Russia  iron 470 

Russian  cookery 401 

nalym 401 

shchi 401 

cream  275 

iced  tea 347 

jelly 275 

pickles  338 

Rust,  stains  of 502 

Eye,  bread    189 

flour,  composition  of  ...179 

meal,  to  buy,  etc 33 

Saccharine,  its  nature.. ..  16 

Saffron ,  for  coloring 256 

Sage 41 

Sago,  adulteration  of 406 

blanc  mange 368 

mites  in 46 

origin,  etc...  224 

pudding 223,224 

soup 59 

toboil 98 

with  fruit ,   .271 

Salads    149  to  154 

dressings  for 150 

to  marinate 149 

nutriti  ve  value  of.  . 149 

Spanish  proverb  about.  149 

beef lfiO. 

cabbage. ill 

celery 151 

chicken 151 

coldslaw 151 

crab 151 

cream  slaw ...151 

cucumber 152 

egg 152 

fish    152 

fruit 164 

ham 152 

hot  slaw... 151 

lemon  152 

lettuce 152 

lobster 152 

melon 152 

nut 152 

orange 152 

oyster 153 

potato. 153 

salmon 153 

sardine 153 

string  bean 150 

sweet  potato 153 

tomato 153 

tongue 153 


INDEX 


545 


Page. 

Salads,  veal 163 

vegetable 163 

walnut 164 

water-cress 164 

Salad  dressings 160 

boiled 150 

cream 150, 151 

French. 160 

mayonnaise 150 

Swiss  150 

Salamander,  the 417 

Saleratus,  how  made 336 

Salicylic  acid,  canning 

with 327 

Salisbury  steak 110 

Saliva,  action  of 12 

Sally  lunn.. 196 

Salmon,  canned 74 

composition  of 66 

cutlets 73 

salad 153 

steaks 73 

toast 74 

Salsify,  boiled .....174 

creamed ....174 

escaloped 175 

fritters  ...233 

nutritive  value 175 

Sal-soda,  how  made,  etc .  .236 

Salt 18,276 

as  a  disinfectant 510 

its  action  on  meat 104 

to  buy 34 

to  keep 47 

fish        75 

Salts  of  lemon...: 499 

of  sorrel 499 

Salt  water,  boiling  of 97 

Samp 32,42 

Sand,  for  cleaning  floors  442 

Sandstone .459 

Sandwiches 201  to  203 

to  make 201 

aberdeen  202 

anchovy,  butter  for 201 

anchovy  and  egg 202 

baked 202 

cheese 202 

dandelion 202 

egg ,202 

fish 202 

ginger 202 

ham 202 

Hanover 202 

labette 202 

lettuce 202 

lbbster 203 

mustard,  butter  for...  201 

nasturtium 202 

peppergrass 202 

rawbeef 364 

salmon  203 

sardine  203 

tomato       203 

water-cress 202 

various  kinds ...203 

Sanitas       439 

Sap  pans,  to  clean 468 

Sardines 74 

salad     153 

Sarcinets,  to  wash 526 

Sassafras  powder. 93 

Satins,  to  clean. 524,526 

Satines,  to  wash 626 

Saucepans,  cleaning  of . .  .422 

Sauerbraten  397 

Sauerkraut 175 

Sausage,  adulteration  of  406 

bologna 413 

buying    28 

meat,  canning  of 332 

composition  of 104 


Page. 

Sausage,  mock...... Ill 

roll Ill 

to  cook 120 

tomake 413 

Sauces  for  fish,  shell-fish 

and  meat 85  to  94 

butter  for 86 

coloring  for 86 

eggs  for 85 

herbs  for 85 

rouxfor 86 

serving  86 

thickening  for 85 

utensils  for 85 

anchovy 86 

aspic  jelly 86 

bechamel 87 

bordeaux , 87 

bread 87 

brown 87 

caper — 88 

cauliflower 88 

celery 88 

chestnut 88 

chutnee 88 

cranberry 88 

cream    88 

cucumber 89 

curry 89 

currypowder 93 

drawn  butter 87 

egg 89 

fennel 89 

fish  89 

flavored  vinegars 93 

garlic  butter 88 

Hollandaise 89 

horseradish 89,  90 

horseradish  butter 88 

lemon    90 

lobster      90 

maitre  d'hotel 87 

Maitland's  mayonnaise.  90 

mandram 90 

matelote 90 

milk 90 

mint 90 

montpelier  butter 87 

mushroom 90 

mustard  90,  91 

navy 91 

nut 91 

olive 91 

onion.. 91 

oyster 91 

parsley 91 

pickle 91 

pepper 92 

piquante 92 

potato 92 

raisin       92 

Eobert     92 

scented  butter 88 

shrimp        92 

supreme 92 

tarragon  butter 88 

tartar  92 

tomato 92 

veloute 92 

walnut 93 

white 87 

Worcestershire 93 

Sauces,  fruit 303  to  308 

Sauces,  pudding ...  226  to  228 

Sauteing 101 

Savory 42 

Savoy  biscuits 264 

Scale  pans,  to  clean 468 

Scallops 83 

fried    .     84 

when  in  season 83 

Scandinavian  rogrod 271 


Page. 

Scones 196 

Scorches 603, 522 

Scotch,  collops 135 

eggs 140 

scones 196 

stew 116 

Scouring  balls 504 

Scrapple 132 

Screws,  hints  about :  454 

Scurvy,  cause  of 155 

Sea-kale,  boiled 175 

composition,  etc 175 

Sealing-wax,  to  make 508 

Sealskin.. 497 

Sesamum  oil 144 

Sewer  gas,  to  detect.. 424,  437 

Shad., 74 

to  buy 30 

Shallot,  the 50 

vinegar 94 

Shchi 401 

Sheep's  brains 117 

Sheep's  tongues,  boiled. .  .116 
Sheepskin  rugs,  to  clean  448 

Shell-fish  77  to  84 

buying 29 

composition  of 66 

clams 77 

crabs 78 

crayfish 78 

lobsters...  79 

mussels 80 

oysters 80 

prawns 78 

scallops 38 

shrimps 78 

terrapin.   84 

to  keep 77 

turtle 84 

Shells,  marine 456 

Shells,  to  fasten  on  wood.456 
Shelves,  to  clean.        .418,  419 

Sherbets,  to  make 282 

ginger 283 

lemon 283 

milk  283 

pineapple 283 

various  kinds 283 

Shoemaker's  wax,tomake508 
Shoes,  hints  about. 487  to  489 

Shoestrings,  to  tie 488 

Shortcakes 215 

apple 215 

apricot  215 

berry 215 

chicken 124 

cranberry 215 

fruit 215 

jam 215 

orange 215 

peach 215 

strawberry 215 

Shrewsberry  cakes 264 

Shrimps,  buttered 78 

buying 30 

curried 79 

potted.. 79 

Shrub,  currant 354 

gooseberry 354 

raspberry  355 

strawberry 355,  356 

Sieves,  cleaning  of 422 

Silk,  oiled,  to  make 494 

spots  on    524 

to  remove  shine  on 524 

washing,  etc 523,  524 

Silver  fish 513 

Silver,  hints  about. 471  to  473 

lace,  to  clean 469,  528 

ornaments 474 

to  mark 509 

Silverware 471 


546 


INDEX 


Page. 

Simmering  water 97 

Sinks,  care  of 423,424 

Sippets 368 

Slatestone 469 

Slaw 151 

Sloe,  the  300 

Slops,  emptying  of 436 

Slugs  615 

Smallage  162 

Small  birds,  to  cook 129 

Smear  case 147 

Smelts 74 

Smith,  Dr.  Edward 22 

Smoked  ceilings,  to  clean.466 

Snails 515 

Snaps,  fruit 263 

ginger 262 

lemon  263 

sugar  ginger 262 

Snipes,  to  cook 127, 129 

Soapbark 519 

Soaps  518,  519 

to  keep 47 

Soapstone 459 

Soapstone  griddles 422 

Soda,  chlorinated 439 

cream  353 

how  made,  etc 236 

lactate  of 142 

washing 511 

Solanine 170,173 

Soldering  fluid 472 

"Solution  1,"   for  disin- 
fecting  439 

Soot ..475 

Sorbet  283 

Sorghum  vinegar 346 

Sorrel,  the 61 

soup 59 

Souffle,  almond 140 

custard 268 

omelet 139 

Sound,  to  deaden 354 

Soups    48to65 

additions  to 54 

bones  for 49 

browned  crackers  for. . .  55 

caramel  for 65 

to  clarify  63 

coloring  for 53 

croutons  for 64 

dumplings  for 54 

egg-balls  for 65 

flavorings  for 60 

hints  about 63 

lobster,  butter  for 63 

onions  in. 60 

principles  involved  in 

making  48 

removing  fat  from 49 

seasoningof         61 

soup-bouquet  for 64 

soup-bunch  for 64 

stockfor    49,61 

to  clear  stock 53 

fish  stock  52 

veal  stock 52 

whitestock 52 

thickening  for 54 

utensils  for      48 

Virginia  flavoring  for..  55 

Soup,  alma  mata 60 

almond  55 

asparagus 55 

barley  56 

bean 56 

bean  porridge 66 

beef 60 

bonne  f emme 60 

bouillabaisse 64,  65 

bouillon 60 

carrot....' , 56 

cabbage 66 


Page. 

Soup,  chicken 61 

celery 66,  67 

clam.  64 

clam  chowder 64 

clear 61 

codfish 65 

consomme 61 

cucumber 67 

Duchess 61 

egg 60,  61 

every-day 62 

fish 64,  65 

Flemish 67 

Florence 62 

French  sorrel 69 

game 60,  62 

green  corn 57 

gumbo 57,61 

gumbo  file 61 

hotch-potch 62 

Italian 57 

Julienne 57 

lima  bean 56 

lobster 64 

macaroni 59 

maigre 65 

meat-broth 62 

milk .364 

mock  bisque 58 

mockturtle 59,  63 

mullagatawny 63 

mushroom  58 

mutton  broth 63 

noodle 58 

okra  57 

onion 58 

oxtail 63 

oyster 65 

Palestine 58 

pea  58 

Canadian  pea..... 58 

potato 59 

Provencal 65 

pumpkin 59 

rabbit 63 

rice 59 

sago 59 

semolina 59 

tapioca 59 

tomato. 59 

turkey 63 

veal      64 

vegetable  marrow 59 

vermacelli  59 

Victoria 60 

white    60 

Sour  milk,  use  in  cake.... 236 

Sour,  to  make 510 

Souse 119 

pie  119 

Soys 344 

Spaghetti      166 

Spanish  cookery ....  398  to  400 

ajo  bianco  399 

bacalao 399 

carbonada 399 

frijoles 399 

otamo    399 

olla  podrida 399 

red  pepper  sauce 400 

cream 275 

eggs  140 

onions 168 

Spare  ribs  118 

Sparrowgrass  ..> 169 

Spawning,  effect  on  fish..  30 

Spectacles  464 

Spermaceti,  stains  of 503 

Spices,  adulteration  of ..  .406 

nutritive  value  of 34 

recipe  for  mixed 34 

to  buy 34 

to  keep 47 


Page, 

Spider  cake 193 

Spinach,  boiled 175 

buying    31 

composition  of 165 

green,  for  coloring 266 

nutritive  value  of 175 

Spirilum  326 

Spirit  of  salt  499 

Spirits  of  wine 499 

Sponge  cake,  how  to  mix. 237 

Sponges,  care  of .460 

Spots  and  stains 498  to  504 

Spruce  beer 356 

Squabs,  to  cook 128 

Squash,  baked 176 

boiled 175 

bread 189 

composition  of 155 

fried    176 

nutritive  value  of 176 

pie 213 

griddle  cakes 197 

summer 175 

to  keep 40 

winter 176 

Squirrels,  to  cook 130 

pie  130 

to  buy 29 

Stains    498to504 

for  floors 444 

Stale  bread,  griddle  cakesl97 

to  utilize  47,189 

Stamping  powders ....       610 
Starch,  composition  of..  179 

digestion  of 12. 13, 17 

for  clothes 520,  521 

need  of  cooking 85 

its  nature  16 

to  buy       35 

Steaming  foods  ...     .  ....101 

Steam,  for  disinfecting. .  438 

Stearine    144 

stains  of 503 

Steel  469 

pens,  to  preserve 509 

to  keep  from  rust 470 

to  mark  509 

Stencil  ink  509 

Stewing 98 

Sticklerspersgrod 397 

Stings  of  insects 513 

St.  Louis  flour  33 

Stock,  for  soup 49,  51,  52 

to  clear 63 

Stockings,  to  wash 522 

Stone,  to  clean,  etc 459 

Stoneware     464 

Storeroom,  the  419 

Stoves,  hints  about. 474  to  476 

Strawberry,  acid  356 

canning  of . .       328,  329,  332 

composition  of 295 

jam  318 

jelly       275,312 

marmalade 315 

mock 300 

origin,  etc 301 

paste    316 

pickled 340 

pie       ..  213 

preserves 324 

shortcake .215 

shrub 356 

tarts  214 

toast 201 

to  serve 300 

syrup    357 

with  griddle  cakes 197 

Stuffing  for  fish 70 

forpoultry       121 

Sturgeon,  buying 30 

Succotash.... 163 

canning  of .......330 


INDEX 


547 


Page. 

Sucrose 16 

Suet 414 

and  milk 366 

beef,  tokeep 47 

dumpling,  for  soup...  .  54 

for  puddings 216 

to  keep 46 

Sugar,  adulteration  of... 404 

boiling  for  candy 285 

coloring  it  257 

composition  of 179 

how  digested  12,13 

effect  of  on  acid 303 

flavoring  it 257 

its  nature 16 

stains  of 603 

tobuy 35 

using  in  cooking  fruit. .303 

vinegar 346 

Sulphate  of  zinc 440 

Sulphurous  acid  gas 440 

Sunlight,  importance  of  ..437 

its  effect  on  food 47 

Swansdown — 490 

Sweet  basil 41 

Swedish  ost  kaka 268 

Sweetbreads,  buying       .  28 

cooking  of 114, 115 

location  of 408 

creamed 115 

croquettes 114 

Sweet  potatoes,  baked  . .  173 

boiled 173 

broiled       173 

composition  of 155 

fried 173 

origin  of 173 

pie 213 

sugared 173 

with  pork 173 

Swiss,  cream  366 

salad  dressing 150 

Swords,  to  clean 470 

Syrups 356  to  358 

barberry 367 

blackberry 357 

cherry 357 

currant 357 

for  compotes. 308 

fruit 196 

lemon 357 

making  of 366 

orange  357 

pineapple 368 

raspberry 367 

rose  357 

sarsaparilla 357 

simple,  to  make.... 278,  357 

strawberry 357 

to  clarify 318 

tomato 358 

vanilla 240,348 

violet 367 

wintergreen 358 

Tables,  wooden,  to  clean. 418 
Taganrok  blanc  mange.. 368 
Tallow,  to  clarify .  . .  414 

Tamarind,    adulteration 

of 300 

originof 300 

preserving  of 300 

Tannin  stains    601 

Tapioca,  and  milk 366 

blanc  mange  368 

jelly 367 

composition,  etc 224 

cream  269 

custard  268 

pudding 223,  224 

soup 59 

Tarragon 42 

butter 88 

vinegar 94 


Page. 

Tartaricacid 18 

Tarts 210,  214 

chicken 124 

cranberry 214 

lemon 214 

gooseberry 234 
arisian 215 

pineapple 214 

strawberry ! 214 

tartlets 214 

Tea,  adulteration  of 402 

buying 32 

to  make 347 

origin  of,  etc 348 

principles  involved  in 

making- 347 

for  invalids 362 

iced    347 

to  keep 46 

beef  , 366 

flavoring 240 

flaxseed 36rt 

licorice 366 

linseed 366 

slippery  elm 366 

stains  of ...503 

Tea  kettles,  care  of 422 

Tea  leaves,  uses  of 611 

Tea  pots,  care  of 423 

Terrapin,  buying 30 

tocook 84 

Theine 348 

Thermometers  for  cook- 
ing  103 

Thyme 42 

Thymol 440 

Tiled  floors 449 

Tiles,  care  of 459 

Tinware 472,  473 

Tisane 356 

Toast,  to  make 200 

cream 200, 368 

egg  .141 

for  invalids 200,  362 

milk  368 

graham  gems 201 

meringued 201 

milk  200 

salmon 74 

strawberry 201 

tomato 177 

veal 114 

vermicelli ..201 

water    200,365 

with  cheese 148 

Tobacco  pipes 460 

Tortoiseshell 456 

Tomatoes,  baked 176 

beverage 356 

butter 307 

buying 31 

canned 178 

canning  of 330,332 

composition  of 155 

catsup  344 

croutes 176 

custard 268 

figs      320 

escaloped , 177 

fried 177 

jam  318 

marmalade 315 

origin,  etc 178 

pickles 338,341 

pie         214 

preserves 324 

raw    177 

salad 153 

salted 177 

spiced 342 

soup... 69 

soy 344 

stewed 177 


Page. 

Tomatoes,  syrup 358 

toast 177 

to  keep 41 

vinegar  346 

with  chicken 124 

with  cream  176 

with  macaroni  ..  .. 177 

Tongues,  pickle  for 412 

to  cure 412 

beef,  boiled 109 

buying 28 

ornamenting  of 260 

salad 153 

sheep's,  boiled 116 

Tonka  beans 35 

Tough  meat,  to  make  ten- 
der  103 

Trichina  in  pork 117 

Trifles 264 

Tripe,  composition  of 104 

cooking  of 110 

to  clean  it 412 

Trout,  buying ; 30 

tocook 74 

Trussing  fowls 121 

Truffle  vinegar 94 

Tubs 490 

Tumblers,  to  clean 463 

Turbot,  boiled 75 

fried 75 

Turkey,  boiled 126 

boned 126 

cheese 126 

composition  of  104 

cranberry  sauce  for...    88 

hash 132 

roast 126 

ragout 126 

soup 63 

tobuy 29 

to  keep 38 

to  kill 29 

Turkish  cookery 400 

dolmas  .400 

pilau 400 

cerkestal 400 

Turnips,  boiled 178 

composition  of 155 

creamed 178 

nutritive  value 178 

pickled    338 

Piedmontese 178 

Turpentine 499 

for  washing 618 

Turon 271 

Turtles,  buying  of 30 

cooking  of 84 

Turtlecakes .264 

Tutti  frutti 301 

beverage 356 

biscuit       190 

icecream 281 

jelly  313 

meaning  of 281 

Twilback        264 

Umbrellas 497 

Urine,  si  ains  of 503 

Useful  articl  es  510 

Vanilla,beans,  to  buy.etc.  35 

extract  of  240 

sugar       ..        240 

syrup  240 

Varnish,  hints  about —  479 

scratches  in  452 

topolish     454 

stains  of  ...     503 

Veal,  cooking  of       112  to  115 

breakfast 112 

buying.    . 27 

calf's  brains 112 

calf's  liver 112 

cheese..  106 

composition  of 104 


548 


INDEX 


Page. 

"Veal,  creamed .A12 

croquettes 134 

cutlets  breaded 113 

digestibility  of  112 

and  ham  pie  113 

loaf       H3 

location  of  parts  in 408 

mayonnaise    ....  113 

mirotin  of 394 

molded 113 

old       112 

pot-pie 113 

roast,  fillet  of. 112 

roast  veal  pie 113 

salad.  ,.153 

scalloped   114 

smothered 114 

spiced 114 

soup 64 

stew 114 

sweetbreads 114 

tea 365 

toast .114 

to  keep.. —  37 

Vegetables 155  to  178 

artichokes 158 

asparagus. . . . 158 

beans 159 

beets 160 

boiling 98,362 

Brussels  sprouts 160 

buying 30 

cabbage,  the .....160 

carrots. 161 

cauliflower 162 

celery 162 

composition  of    - 155 

corn   162 

cucumbers ■. 164 

digestion  of  155 

dishing  up 167 

egg  plant 164 

effect  of  different  waters 

on    157 

hints  about 157 

how  to  boil 156 

macaroni 166 

mushrooms  166 

nutritive  value  of 165 

odor  of  boiling 157 

okra 167 

onions. 167 

parsley 168 

parsnips 168 

peas  169 

potatoes   .169 

principles   involved  in 

boiling 362 

pulses,  the 160 

pumpkins 173 

radishes 174 

rice 174 

restoring  their  fresh- 
ness        157 

sala  is 153 

salsify  .    , 174 

sauerkraut 175 

Scotch  kale 175 

sea-kale 175 

spinach 175 

squash 175 

storing .... , 157 

sweet  potatoes 173 

tomatoes 176 

to  keep 38 

turnips 178 

vegetable  oyster 174 

vermicelli 166 

washing  of 157 

waters,  use  of 423 

wilted,  to  restore 167 

when  introduced 10 

yams 178 


Page. 
Vegetable  marrow  soup . .  59 

Vegetabl  e  oyster 174 

Veils,  to  clean 526 

Vellum,  hints  about 485 

Velvet,  hints  about 494 

to  clean 527 

Velveteen,  to  clean 527 

Venison,  buying 28 

cutting  it  up... 410 

to  cook 130 

Ventilation 436 

Verdigris 333 

Vermicelli 166 

and  milk 366 

Villi,  the 13 

Vinegar 345,346 

adulteration  of 404 

motherof 345 

nutritive  value  of 345 

proof  345 

what  it  is.. 345 

apple. 345 

aromatic 346 

beet... 345 

beverage 355 

cherry 345 

cider 345 

clover 345 

corn..t... 345 

currant 346 

flavored 93 

gooseberry.  .• 346 

honey 346 

molasses — 346 

pie     214 

potato  346 

raspberry., 346 

rhubarb. 346 

sorghum 346 

spiced    346 

stains  of 503 

sugar 346 

to  keep 47 

tomato  ...■ ........346 

yeast 346 

Violinbows. 453 

Violins,  care  of 453 

Virginia  flavoring 55 

Vitellin 15,  95 

Vitriol,  blue 439 

Vomiting,  apples  for 296 

Wafers  190 

Waffl  es,  cornmeal 198 

corn-starch 198 

raised  198 

rice  198 

Walks,  hints  about 432 

Walnut,  catsup    344 

composition  of 295 

creamed   289 

pickled 338 

salad 154 

sauce 93 

stains  of 503 

Walnuts,  their  origin,  etc.  44 

to  restore  shrivelled 43 

Walls,  hints  about 431 

Wall  paper,  hints  about.. 

485,486 

Wasps 515 

Washing  fluids  518 

Washing  powders 518 

Washing  soda 511 

Water,  boiling  of 96,  97 

foodvalueof 19 

hints  about 428  to  430 

simmering  of 97 

stains  of 503 

Water-cress  salad 154 

Water  ices,  to  make 282 

lemon 282 

orange 282 

pineapple....  1 282  J 


Page. 

Water  ices,  strawberry. . .  282 
Watering  of  the  mouth, 

the 24 

Watermelon,  composition 

of       .. 298 

preserves 325 

toserve  298 

rinds.dried  303 

rind,  pickled 341 

Wax,  nutritive  value  of..  18 

stains  of 503 

Waxing  floors 443 

Weevils    515 

Weights    and    measures, 

tables  of 7 

Wells,  hints  about  ...  426,  427 

Welsh  rarebit    148 

Westphalianhams 411 

Whalebones 460 

Whey,  for  invalids  361 

rennet    366 

wine  366 

Wheatgerm 200 

Whitewash 480 

snainsof 503 

Whortleberry,  the 297 

cake  ...  254 

composition  of 297 

pudding 224 

Williams,  Mattieu ..... .22, 156 

Willow  furniture 451 

to  bleach  ...  .451 

Windows,  hints  about       461 
Wigglers  in  water  .429 

Window  sills,  spots  on       462 

Wine,  jelly  368 

stains  of  . . .  503,  504 

Wood,  hints  about . . .  453,  454 

toebonize        454 

stains  for      453 

to  fill  cracks  in  454 

to  harden        454 

to  make  fireproof  454 

Wood  floors  .- 441  to  445 

grease  on 442 

ink  spots  on 443 

oil  on * 442 

removing  stains 442 

sand'for  .. 442 

soot  stains  on ...443 

to  clean 442 

to  stop  cracks  in 443 

using  soap  on 442 

whitewash  on  ..442 

Woodcocks,  to  cook  127, 1 29, 1 30 
Wooden  ware, hints  about. 

489.  490 
Woolens,  to  clean.  524,  525 
Worst,  pork.  . ...  120 

Wringing  machine  rollers 

459.  519 
Writing,  to  restore  faded, 

485,507 

Yams,  boiled       178 

fried ..178 

composition  of       178 

Yards,  to  disinfect 440 

Yeast,  cakes    . 184 

for  bread 179 

hop  184 

its  nature,  etc 184 

milk 184 

potato  ball  184 

three  hour 184 

to  keep.  .., 47 

vinegar  346 

Yolk  of  egg  . .  499 

Yorkshire  pudding  ...      109 

Zante  currants 297 

Zest 240 

Zinc,  chloride  of 439 

hints  about 473 

ink  for ..509 


Smiley's  Manual 


— OF- 


PRACTICAL  INFORMATION 


AND  STANDARD 


HOUSEHOLD  GUIDE 


IS  SOLD  BY  SUBSCRIPTION  ONLY. 


AGENTS  WANTED 

In  every  city  and  town  to  introduce  the  work.  Its  great 
usefulness  and  popularity  makes  it  an  unusually  desirable 
book  for  agents  to  handle.  Those  desiring  to  try  the  work 
can  obtain  terms  and  full  information  by  addressing 

J.  B.  SMILEY,  Publisher, 
232  W.  Washington  Street,  CHICAGO,  ILL 

(549) 


THE  LADIES' 

CASKET  OF  ART 


AND 


Treasury  of  Useful  Knowledge. 


A  CLEAR  AND  COMPREHENSIVE  MANUAL  of 
Instruction  in  the  different  Arts  and  Occupations  most 
suitable  for  Ladies;  a  Guide  to  the  various  In-door  and 
Out-door  Amusements  suitable  for  both  Old  and  Young; 
and  a  Repository  of  Practical  Knowledge  of  great  interest 
and  importance  to  the  various  members  of  the  home. 


ELEGANTLY  ILLUSTRATED 

With  over  500  Engravings  and  32  Pages  of  Colored  Plates. 


SOLID    B~2"    STTIBSOIR/IIFTIOIN". 

AGENTS  WANTED. 


For  terms  and  full  information  address 

J.  B.  SMILEY,  Publisher, 

232  W.  Washington  St.,  Chicago,  III. 

(560) 


MODERN  MANNERS 


AND 


SOCIAL  FORMS. 


A  Manual  of  the  Manners  and  Customs  of  the  Best  Society. 

The  most  complete  work  on  Etiquette  yet  issued,  and 

containing  also  articles  on  the  Toilet,  Beauty 

and  Health,  which  are  replete   with 

useful  suggestions. 


IT  IS  A  VERY  EASY  SELLING  BOOK. 


Sold  by  Subscription. 

AGENTS   WANTED. 


For  terms  and  full  information,  address 

J.  B.  SMILEY,  Publisher, 

232  W.  Washington  St.,  Chicago,  III. 

(551) 


