Book  J2l£L 

COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


A  MANUAL  OF  COOKING 
AND  LIST  OF  MENUS 


INCLUDING 

RECIPES  USED  BY  NOTED  COLORED  COOKS 
A*:D  PROMINENT  CATERERS 


BY 

S.  THOMAS  B1VINS 

Principal  Chester  Domestic  Training  Institute, 
Chester,  Penna. 


Press  of  the  Hampton  Institute 
Hampton,  Virginia 
1912 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  19*2,  by 

S.  Thomas  Rivins, 
In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress  at  Washington 


CCLA328293 

2^ )  k 


/ 


PREFACE 

rpHE  writer  of  this  book  has  one  object  in  view  in  prepar- 
ing and  sending  out  to  the  world  the  treatise  here  pub- 
lished. He  has  labored  at  the  same  time  to  produce  a  manual 
which  the  family1  and  hotel  proprietors  can  take  in  hand  with  a 
certainty  of  finding  directions  and  assistance  in  most  of  the 
doubts  and  perplexities  which  beset  their  daily  life  :  a  book  to 
aid  in  choosing  choice  dishes  and  delicacies  for  private  and 
public  functions  and  to  guide  them  in  the  selection  of  such 
dishes  &s  will  be  mosi  des  Le — a  book  which,  if  studied  and 
followed,  v  er  them  sagacious,  able,  well  informed, 

ready,  nd  a  .omplished  in  whatever  makes  the  table 

and  the  fountain  of  purest  delight. 

n  indebted  to  and  beg  to  thank  Miss  Wain, 
,  Pa.,  for  valuable  assistance  rendered  in  connection 
with        -reparation  of  this  publication. 

S.  Thomas  Bivins 


i 


INTRODUCTION 


In  no  country  in  the  world  are  there  so  many  well-to-do 
people  as  in  the  United  States,  or  so  many  who  own  comfort- 
able and  even  beautiful  homes,  and  on  every  hand  we  hear  the 
call  for  trained  servants  for  those  homes.  The  home,  with  all 
of  its  endearing  associations,  as  father,  mother,  brother,  and 
sister,  is  more  affected  by  the  domestic  service  carried  on 
within  than  by  all  other  agencies  and  influences  combined.  It 
is  said  that  the  mother  who  rocks  the  cradle  controls  the 
nation,  but  the  domestic  who  faithfully  and  intelligently  serves 
her  who  rocks  the  cradle  is,  in  fact,  the  real  ruler.  The  schools 
of  domestic  science  of  the  country  have  done  much  and  are 
increasing  their  efforts  to  diffuse  the  needed  knowledge. 

Domestic  service  consists  not  simply  in  going  the  rounds 
i  (I  tb  humdrum  duties  of  the  house,  but  in  scientifi- 
caiij  £ijoking:  the  food :  in  creating  new  dishes  and  in  having 
a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  family,  the  peculiar  tastes,  habits 
and  dispositions  of  each  member  so  as  to  be  able  to  meet  all  of 
their  peculiar  wants  and  circumstances.  Such  service  would 
be  indispensable  to  any  family. 

Domestics  in  former  days  have  played  a  large  and  impor- 
tant part  indeveloping  the  art  of  cooking  in  many  homes  of 
our  country,  which  made  it  less  desirable  for  rich  families  to 
live  in  hotels  so  as  to  escape  the  annoyance  and  responsibility 
of  inefficient  servants. 

While  thus  supplying  this  manual  for  knowledge  in  a  con- 
cise and  practical  way  has  been  the  central  idea  in  the  con- 
struction of  this  book,  the  instruction  in  the  principal  recipes 
with  care,  grouping  and  arrangement,  underlying  successful 
work  for  the  home. 

In  presenting  this  book  to  the  public  it  is  with  the  view  of 
supplying  the  knowledge  so  much  needed  and  sought  for  in  a 
practical,  condensed  way,  that  shall  give  to  the  home  greater 
comfort  ;  and  the  author  hopes  that  after  more  than  twenty 
years  of  experience  and  investigation  he  may  be  able  to  fill  in 
a  measure  this  long  felt  want. 

Many  imperfections  will,  no  doubt,  be  found  in  the  work, 
for  which  kind  indulgences  and  friendly  criticism  is  asked,  that 
such  imperfections  may  be  remedied  in  a  revised  edition  at  an 
early  date. 


r 

■9* 


RECIPES 


Turkey,  to  Bone 

Select  two  young  turkeys,  the  one  that  is  to  be  boned 
should  be  a  plump  well  fed  bird,  a  gobler  pref  ered.  Great  caution 
should  be  observed  that  the  skin  is  perfect  as  this  is  important 
in  dissecting  ;  then  when  the  carcas  is  removed  ready  for  fill- 
ing, the  second  turkey's  flesh  should  be  prepared,  by  first  re- 
moving the  skin;  cut  large  slices  of  the  white  portion  which 
will  be  used  as  layers  for  filling,  then  boil  the  remaining  part 
of  the  turkey  in  a  clean  pot  to  get  the  essence  for  making 
stuffing. 

Make  stuffing — three  pounds  of  best  pork  sausage,  one 
half  bound  larded  pork,  one  half  pound  of  Virginia  ham,  truf- 
fles. ^London  thyme,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  onion,  pound  of  but- 
ter, mix  these  ingredients  well  together,  fill  the  turkey,  using 
the  parts  sliced  from  the  second  turkey  as  layers  between  the 
stuffing.  Sew  the  pocket  and  lace  the  body  of  turkey  with  white 
cord  and  sew  it  up  in  cheesecloth,  put  it  in  a  cooking  pot  and 
cook  for  two  hours  and  a  half  ;  when  done,  remove  the  cloth 
and  brown  it  in  a  quick  oven,use  white  paper  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing, make  a  brown  truffle  sauce  for  serving. 

Garnish  the  dish  with  toast  and  ornamental  forks  for  the 
purpose. 

Capon,  to  Bone 

Select  a  plump  young  capon,  and  an  ordinary  chicken  to 
be  used  as  layers  and  prepare  it  the  same  as  for  turkey. 
Make  a  white  sauce. 
See  directions  for  sauces. 

Chicken  Salad 

Chicken  for  salad  should  be  well  cooked  until  tender,  and 
allowed  to  be  cold  before  the  meat  is  removed  from  the  bones. 
Strip  the  meat  off  very  carefully  in  large  pieces,  use  the  white 
and  dark  meat  together,  cut  in  small  square  quarter-inch 
blocks,  then  have  the  celery  washed  clean,  only  using  the 


8 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


white  portion,  cut  celery  in  blocks  the  same  size  as  the  chicken 
meat  is  cut,  let  celery  be  perfectly  dry  before  mixing — to  every 
pint  of  chicken  meat  use  the  same  quantity  of  celery.  Make 
dressing  by  using  the  best  olive  oil,  yellow  part  of  eggs,  mus- 
tard, cayenne  pepper,  salt,  lemon  juice,  or  vinegar,  then  mix 
the  chicken  and  celery  together  with  the  dressing. 
Decorate  the  dish  with  lettuce  before  serving. 

Salmon  Fish 

For  public  functions  select  a  large  salmon,  clean  well,  let 
the  head  remain,  wrap  the  fish  in  cheese-cloth  before  boiling- 
when  cooked  remove  the  skin,  use  mayonnaise  dressing  made 
as  for  chicken  and  lobster  salad.  Cover  the  fish  with  the  dress- 
ing all  but  its  head,  peel  and  cut  lemon  very  thin  in  the  s 
of  fish  scales  and  place  them  representing  real  scales 
rate  dish  with  lettuce.  Put  a  piece  in  the  fish's  mouth  when 
served. 

Lobster  Salad 

Select  fresh  live  lobsters,  boil  in  a  large  pot  in  plenty  of 
water  to  cover  them  while  cooking,  let  them  be  perfectly  cold, 
remove  the  insides  with  great  care  ;  before  picking  the  meat, 
particular  care  should  be  observed  that  no  hard  substances  as 
fins  and  shell  remain  in  the  meat.  Pick  them  in  as  large  pieces 
as  possible,  then  cut  in  small  blocks,  make  dressing  as  for 
chicken  salad,  decorate  with  the  lobster  shell  with  head  and 
legs  attached.  Before  serving  lettuce  may  also  be  used  in 
garnishing. 

Turkey,  to  Boil 

Make  stuffing  of  bread,  herbs,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
lemon-peel,  a  few  oysters  or  an  anchovy,  a  bit  of  butter,  some 
suet,  and  an  egg.  Put  this  in  the  crop,  and  fasten  up  the  skin, 
and  boil  the  turkey  in  a  floured  cloth,  to  make  it  very  white. 
Have  ready  a  fine  ovster  sauce,  made  rich  with  butter,  a  little 
cream,  a  spoonful  of  soy,  if  approved,  and  pour  over  the  bird  ; 
or,  liver  and  lemon  sauce. 

Hen  birds  are  best  for  boiling,  and  should  be  young. 


The  Son  the  mi  Cookbook 


9 


Turkey  to  Roast 

The  sinews  of  the  legs  should  be  drawn,  which  ever  way 
it  is  to  be  dressed.  The  head  should  be  twisted  under  the 
wing ;  and  in  drawing,  care  should  be  taken  not  to  tear  the 
liver,  or  let  the  gall  touch  it.  Put  a  stuffing  of  sausage  meat  ; 
or,  if  sausages  are  to  be  served  in  the  dish,  a  bread  stuffing. 
As  this  makes  a  large  addition  to  the  size  of  the  bird,  observe 
that  the  heat  of  the  fire  be  constantly  to  that  part,  for  the 
breast  is  frequently  not  done  enough.  A  little  strip  of  paper 
should  be  put  on  the  bone  to  prevent  scorching,  while  the 
other  parts  roast.  Baste  well,  and  froth  it  up.  Gravy  in  the 
dish,  and  plenty  of  bread  sauce,  in  a  sauce  tureen. 

Pulled  Turkey 

Divide  tb°  "  eat  of  the  breast  by  pulling  instead  of  cutting; 
then  warr  it  ...  i  spoonful  or  two  of  white  gravy,  a  little 
cream,  grated  nutmeg,  salt,  and  a  little  flour  and  butter  :  warm, 
but  do  not  boil  it.  The  leg  seasoned,  scored,  and  broiled,  put 
'  the  dish,  with  the  above  around  it.  Cold  chicken  does  as 
well. 

Turkey  Patties 

Mince  some  of  the  white  parts,  and  with  grated  lemon, 
nutmeg,  salt,  a  very  little  pepper,  cream,  and  a  very  little  bit 
of  butter  warmed.  Fill  the  patties  :  they  having  first  been 
baked  with  a  bit  of  bread  in  each,  to  keep  them  hollow. 

Pheasants  and  Partridges 

Roast  as  turkey,  and  serve  with  a  fine  gravy  in  which 
put  the  smallest  bit  of  garlic,  and  bread  sauce.  When  cold, 
they  may  be  made  into  excellent  patties,  but  their  flavor  should 
not  be  overpowered  by  lemon. 


10 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Potted  Partridge 

When  nicely  cleaned,  season  with  the  following,  in  finest 
powder  :  mace,  Jamaica  pepper,  white  pepper  and  salt.  Rub 
every  part  well ;  then  lay  the  breasts  downward  in  a  pan,  and 
pack  the  birds  as  close  as  you  possibly  can.  Put  a  good  deal 
of  butter  on  them;  then  cover  the  pan  with  a  coarse  flour  paste, 
and  pepper  over  :  tie  close  and  bake.  When  cold,  put  into 
pots,  and  cover  with  butter. 

To  Dress  Terrapin 

One  quart  of  terrapin. 

Select  one  large  Count  terrapin,  scald  and  take  skin  off, 
then  boil  until  the  terrapin  becomes  soft  in  the  legs,  then  open, 
and  pick  the  meat,  remove  carefully  the  gall  bag,  take  four 
hard-boiled  eggs,  quarter  pound  of  butter,  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  quarter  pint  of  cream,  scald,  mix  well  together,  use  dry 
Madeira  wine  and  brandy  according  to  taste. 

For  Chicken  Croquettes 

To  make  one  dozen  croquettes. 

Select  three  and  one  half  pounds  of  chicken  and  boil  well 
done,  take  the  meat  and  chop  very  fine,  use  one  pint  of  flour, 
two  raw  eggs,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg 

Four  pounds  of  lobster,  three  boiled  eggs,  quarter  pound 
of  butter,  one  and  one  half  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  pint  of 
cream,  and  wine  according  to  taste. 

A  Very  Economical  Way  of  Potting  Birds 

Prepare  as  above.  When  baked,  and  become  cold,  cut 
them  in  proper  pieces  for  helping,  and  pack  them  close  into  a 
large  potting  potk  and  leave,  if  possible,  no  space  to  receive 
the  butter  ;  with  which  cover  them,  and  one-third  less  will  be 
requisite  than  when  done  whole. 

To  Clarify  Butter  for  Potted  Things 

Put  it  in  a  sauceboat,  and  set  that  in  a  stewpan  that  has 
a  little  water  in,  over  the  fire.  When  melted,  observe  not  to 
pour  the  milky  parts  over  the  potted  things,  they  will  sink  to 
the  bottom. 


FOWLS 


Boiled  with  oysters,  lemon,  parsley,  and  butter,  or  liver 
sauce ;  or  with  bacon  and  greens. 

Fowl,  Roasted 

Egg  sauce,  bread  sauce,  or  garnished  with  sausages 
scalded,  and  parsley. 

A  large  barndoor  fowl  well  hung,  stuffed  in  the  crop  with 
sausage  meat,  and  gravy  in  the  dish,  and  with  bread  sauce. 

The  head  should  be  turned  under  the  wing. 

Fowl  split  down  the  back,  peppered,  salted,  and  broiled, 
rve  it  with  mushroom  sauce. 

To  Boil  Fowl  with  Rice 

Stew  the  fowl  very  slowly,  in  some  clear  mutton  broth, 
well  skimmed,  and  seasoned  with  onion,  mace,  pepper,  and  salt. 
About  half  an  hour  before  it  is  ready,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  rice,  well  washed  and  soaked.  Simmer  till  tender; 
then  strain  from  the  broth,  and  put  the  rice  on  a  sieve  before 
the  fire.  Keep  the  fowl  hot ;  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  the  dish, 
and  the  rice  round  it,  without  the  broth  ;  which  will  be  very 
nice  to  eat  as  such  ;  but  the  less  liquor  it  is  done  with  the  bet- 
ter. 

Fricassee  of  Chicken 

Boil  them  rather  more  than  half  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water  :  let  them  cool ;  then  cut  them  up,  and  put  them  to  sim- 
mer in  a  little  gravy,  made  of  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in, 
and  a  bit  of  veal  or  mutton,  onion,  mace,  lemon-peel,  white 
pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  When  quite  tender,  keep 
them  hot  while  you  thicken  the  sauce  thus  :  strain  off,  and  put 
it  back  into  the  saucepan,  with  a  little  salt,  a  scrape  of  nutmeg, 
a  bit  of  flour  and  butter  :  give  it  one  boil  ;  and  when  you  are 
going  to  serve,  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  it  will  be  equally  as  good  without  the  egg,  and  stir  them 
over  the  fire,but  do  not  let  boil. 


12 


The  So  at  J  tern  Cookbook 


Another  White  Sauce  More  Easily  Made 

Take  a  little  of  the  water  that  boiled  the  fowls,  (  which 
must  be  kept  hot)  and  stew  with  it  some  cut  onion,  a  bit  of 
parsley,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  bit  of  lemon-peel.  Mix  with 
this  a  bit  of  butter,  flour,  and  a  little  thick  cream,  and  adding 
the  chicken,  warm  it  with  the  sauce. 

The  above  for  veal  or  rabbit  ;  but  if  either  are  not  suffi- 
ciently done  before,  then  the  cream  and  flour  should  be  added 
just  before  serving,  after  the  meat  is  a  little  stewed. 

Davenport  Fowls 

Hang  young  fowls  a  night :  take  the  livers,  hearts  and 
tenderest  parts  of  the  gizzard,  shred  very  small,  with  half  a 
handful  of  young  celery,  an  anchovy  to  each  fowl,  one  onion, 
and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  boiled  hard,  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
mace  to  your  taste.  Stuff  the  fowls  with  this,  and  sew  up  the 
vents  and  neck  quite  close,  that  the  water  may  not  get  in. 
Boil  them  in  salt  and  water  till  near  done ;  then  drain,  and 
put  them  into  a  stevvpan,  with  butter  enough  to  brown  them. 
Then  serve  with  fine  melted  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  catsup, 
of  either  sort,  in  the  dish. 

To  Pull  Chicken 

Take  off  the  skin,  and  pull  the  flesh  off  the  bones  of  a 
cold  fowl,  in  as  large  pieces  as  you  can.  Dredge  with  flour, 
and  fry  to  a  nice  brown  in  butter  ;  which  drain  from  it  and 
simmer  in  a  good  gravy,  well  seasoned,  and  thickened  with  a 
little  flour  and  butter.    Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Chicken  Pie 

Cut  up  two  young  fowls  ;  season  with  white  pepper,  salt, 
a  little  mace,  and  nutmeg,  all  in  the  finest  powder  ;  likewise  a 
little  cayenne.  Put  the  chicken,  slices  of  ham,  gammon,  force- 
meat, and  hard  eggs  alternately.  If  to  be  in  a  dish,  put  a  little 
water  ;  if  raised  crust,  none.  Against  the  pie  be  baked,  have 
ready  a  gravy  of  knuckles  of  veal,  with  a  few  shank  bones, 
seasoned  with  herbs,  onions,  mace,  and  pepper.  If  in  a  dish, 
put  in  as  much  gravy  as  will  fill  it ;  if  in  crust,  let  it  go  cold  ; 
then  open  the  lid  and  put  in  the  jelly.  v 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


13 


The  Forcemeat  for  Pie  of  Fowls  of  Any  Kind 

Pound  fine  cold  chicken,  or  veal,  a  bit  of  fat  bacon,  some 
grated  ham,  crumbs  of  bread,  a  very  little  bit  of  onion,  parsley, 
knotted  marjoram,  and  a  very  small  bit  of  tarragon  chopped 
fine  ;  a  blade  of  mace,  a  little,  nutmeg,  white  pepper,  and  salt, 
in  finest  powder.    When  well  mixed,  add  egg  to  make  balls. 

Chicken  Curry 

Cut  up  the  chickens  before  they  are  dressed,  and  fry  them 
in  butter,  with  sliced  onions,  till  of  a  fine  color :  or  if  you  use 
those  that  have  been  dressed,  do  not  fry  them  :  lay  the  joints, 
cut  in  two  or  three  pieces  each,  into  a  stewpan,  with  veal  or 
mutton  gravy,  a  clove  or  two  of  garlic,  four  large  spoonfuls 
of  curry  powder,  with  a  little  flour,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  and 
add  twenty  minutes  before  you  serve  ;  stewing  it  on  till  ready.' 
A  little  juice  of  lemon  should  be  squeezed  in  when  serving. 

Slices  of  rare-done  veal,  rabbit,  or  turkey,  make  a  good 
curry. 

A  dish  of  rice  boiled  plain,  as  hereafter  directed,  must  be 
always  served  to  eat  with  curry. 

Another  Curry  More  Quickly  Made 

Cut  up  a  chicken  or  a  young  rabbit  ;  if  the  former  take 
off  the  skin,  and  rub  each  piece  in  a  large  spoonful  of  flour, 
mixed  with  half  an  ounce  of  curry  powder  :  slice  two  or  three 
onions,  and  fry  in  butter,  of  a  fine  light  brown  ;  then  add  the 
meat,  and  fry  all  together,  until  the  latter  begins  to  brown  ; 
then  put  into  a  stewpan,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  to  cover. 
Let  it  simmer  very  gently  two  or  three  hours  until  quite  ten- 
der. If  too  thick,  put  more  water  half  an  hour  before  it 
is  served. 

Dressed  fowl  or  meat  may  be  done  ;  but  the  curry  will  be 
better  made  of  fresh. 

Grouse 

Are  to  be  roasted  like  fowls  ;  but  their  heads  twisted  un- 
der the  wing,  and  served  with  gravy,  and  bread  sauce,  or  with 
sauce  for  wild  fowl.    See  sauces. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


To  Pot  Grouse,  or  Moor  Game 

Pick,  singe,  and  wash  them  very  clean  ;  then  rub  them 
inside  and  out  with  a  high  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  mace,  nut- 
meg, and  allspice.  Lay  them  in  as  small  a  pot  as  will  hold 
them  :  cover  them  with  butter,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven. 
When  cold,  take  off  the  butter,  move  the  birds  from  the  gravy, 
dry,  and  put  them  into  pots  that  will  just  fit  one  or  two  ;  the 
former  where  there  are  not  many.  Melt  the  former  butter 
with  some  more,  so  as  to  completely  cover  the  birds  :  but  take 
care  not  to  oil  it.    Do  not  let  it  be  too  hot. 

To  Roast  Widgeon,  Duck,  Teal,  or  Moor  Hen 

The  flavor  is  best  approved  without  stuffing  ;  but  put 
some  pepper,  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter  in  the  birds.  Wild  fowl 
require  to  be  much  less  done  than  tame,  and  to  be  served  of  a 
fine  color. 

The  basting  ordered  in  the  foregoing  recipe  takes  off  a 
fishy  taste  which  wild  birds  sometimes  have.  Send  up  a  very 
good  gravy  in  the  dish  ;  and  on  cutting  the  breast,  half  a 
lemon  squeezed  over,  with  pepper  on  it,  improves  the  taste. 

Or  stuff  them  with  crumbs,  a  little  shred  onion,  sage, 
pepper,  and  salt,  but  not  a  large  quantity,  and  add  a  bit  of 
butter.  Slice  an  onion,  and  put  into  the  dripping-pan,  with  a 
little  salt,  and  baste  the  fowls  with  it  till  three  parts  done ; 
then  remove  that,  and  baste  with  butter.  They  should  come 
up  finely  frothed,  and  not  overdone. 

An  excellent  sauce  under  that  article. 

Duck,  to  Boil 

Choose  a  fine  fat  duck,  salt  it  two  days,  boil  it  slowly,  and 
cover  it  with  onion  sauce  made  very  white,  and  the  butter 
melted  with  milk  instead  of  water. 

The  roast  duck ;  stuff  or  not,  and  serve  with  gravy. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Duck  Pie 

Bone  a  full  grown  young  duck,  and  fine  young  fowl  of  a 
good  size.  Season  them  both  well  with  mace,  pepper,  salt 
and  allspice.  Put  the  fowl  within  the  duck,  a  calf's  tongue 
that  has  been  pickled  red,  and  boiled,  within  the  fowl.  Make 
the  whole  lie  close.  The  skin  of  the  legs  and  wings  should  be 
drawn  inwards,  that  the  body  may  lie  smooth.  Put  the  birds 
into  a  raised  pie,  or  small  pie-dish,  and  cover  it  with  a  thick- 
ish  paste.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  to  eat  cold. 

The  old  Staffordshire  raised  pies  were  made  as  above, 
but  a  turkey  must  cover  the  duck,  and  a  goose  over  that,  form- 
ing a  very  large  pie. 

Goose,  to  Roast 

After  being  carefully  picked,  the  plungs  of  the  feathers 
pulled  out,  and  the  hairs  singed,  let  it  be  well  washed,  dried, 
and  seasoned  with  onion,  sage,  pepper,  and  salt ;  fasten  it  tight, 
at  the  neck  and  vent,  and  roast  it. 

When  half  done,  let  a  narrow  strip  of  paper  be  skewed  on 
the  breastbone.  Baste  it  well,  and  observe  to  take  it  up  the 
moment  it  is  done,  nicely  frothed.  When  the  breast  rises, 
take  off  the  paper,  and  observe  to  serve  it  before  it  falls,  or  it 
will  be  spoiled,  and  come  to  the  table  flattened.  Before  it  is 
cut  up,  cut  the  apron  off,  and  pour  in  wine  glass  of  port  wine 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Cut  the  breast  from  one  pinion 
to  the  other  if  for  a  large  party,  without  leaving  meat  to  the 
wingbone. 

Gravy,  and  apple  sauce. 

Green  Goose  Pie 

Bone  two  green  geese,  having  first  removed  every  plug, 
and  singed  them  nicely.  Wrash  them  clean  ;  season  high  with 
salt,  mace,  pepper,  and  pimento :  put  one  within  the  other, 
and  press  them  close  in  your  pie-dish  ;  put  a  good  deal  of  but- 
ter over  them,  and  bake  with  or  without  a  crust  :  if  the  latter, 
a  cover  that  will  keep  the  steam  in,  must  supply  the  place  of  a 
crust.    It  will  keep  long. 


i6 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Giblet  Pie 

Stew  duck  or  goose  giblets,  when  nicely  cleaned,  with 
onion,  black  pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  till  tender. 
Let  them  become  cold  ;  then  put  them  in  the  dish  with  two 
or  three  steaks  of  veal,  beef,  or  mutton,  especially  if  there  are 
not  giblets  enough  to  make  the  size  pie  that  you  wish.  A 
little  cup  of  cream,  put  in  when  baked,  is  a  great  improvement. 
Put  the  liquor  in  first. 

Stewed  Giblets 

As  above,  and  add  a  little  butter  and  flour.    Serve  with 
sippets,  and  cream  just  scalded  in  the  sauce. 

Stewed  Pigeons 

Let  them  be  fresh,  and  carefully  cropped,  drawn,  and 
washed,  then  let  them  soak  half  an  hour  :  in  the  mean  time 
cut  a  hard  white  cabbage  into  water  in  slices  as  for  pickling  ; 
drain  it,  and  boil  it  in  milk  and  water ;  drain  it  again,  then  lay 
some  of  it  at  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  ;  put  the  birds  on  it, 
being  well  seasoned,  and  cover  them  with  the  remainder  ;  put 
a  little  broth  into  them,  and  stew  till  tender  before  you  serve. 
Add  some  cream,  and  a  little  flour  and  butter  ;  give  it  one 
boil,  and  serve  with  cabbage  around  the  pigeons. 

Another  Way 

Stew  in  a  good  gravy,  stuffed  or  not,  and  season  well. 
Add  a  little  mushroom  catsup,  or  fresh  mushrooms. 

Broiled  Pigeons 

Slit  them  down  the  back,  season  and  broil ;  serve  with 
mushroom  sauce  ;  or  melted  butter  with  a  little  mushroom 
catsup. 

To  Pickle  Pigeons 

Bone  the  pigeons,  turn  the  inside  out,  and  lard  it :  season 
with  Jamaica  pepper  pounded  very  fine  and  a  little  salt  :  turn 
the  inside  outwards  again,  and  tie  the  neck  and  rump  with 
thread  :  put  them  in  boiling  water,  let  them  boil  a  minute  or 
two  to  plump  :  take  them  out,  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  The 


The  Southern  Cookbook  17 

pickle  must  be  made  of  an  equal,  quantity  of  wine,  and  white 
wine,  vinegar  ;  white  pepper,  Jamaica  pepper,  sliced  nutmeg, 
ginger,  and  two  or  three  bayleaves  boiled.  When  it  boils, 
put  the  pigeons  into  it,  and  let  them  boil  fifteen  minutes,  if 
small  ;  twenty  if  large.  Then  take  them  out,  wipe,  and  let 
them  cool.  When  the  pickle  is  cold,  take  off  the  fat,  and  put 
them  in. 

They  must  be  kept  in  a  stone  jar,  tied  down  with  a  blad- 
der to  exclude  the  air.  You  may  in  some,  instead  of  larding, 
put  a  stuffing  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  marrow,  in  equal  quan- 
tities, spices,  and  sweet  herbs. 

Pigeon*  in  Jelly 

Save  some  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  knuckles  of  veal 
have  been  boiled,  as  likewise  a  calf  s  toot,  or  else  simmer  some 
isinglass  in  it,  a  blade  of  mace,  an  onion,  a  bunch  of  herbs, 
some  lemon-peel,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  When  the  pigeons 
are  nicely  cleaned  and  soaked,  put  them  in  a  pan,  and  pour 
the  liquor  over  them  ;  and  let  them  bake,  and  remain  in  it  till 
cold.    When  served,  put  jelly  over  and  around  them.  Season 

them  as  you  approve. 

1 

Potted  Pigeons 

Take  fresh  ones  :  clean  them  carefully  :  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt :  put  them  close  in  a  small  pan,  and  pour  butter 
over  :  bake,  and  when  cold  take  them  out.  Put  into  fresh  pots, 
fit  to  serve  to  table,  two  or  three  in  each,  and  pour  butter 
over,  using  that  which  was  baked  with  them  as  part.  Observe, 
that  it  is  necessary  to  put  a  good  deal  of  butter  if  to  be  kept. 

Note.  Butter  that  has  covered  potted  things  is  good  for 
basting,  and  will  make  very  good  paste  for  meat  pies.  If  to 
be  high,  add  .some  mace,  and  a  few  Jamaica  peppers  to  the 
seasoning. 

Roast  Pigeons 

Should  be  stuffed  with  uncut  parsley,  seasoned,  and 
served  with  parsley  and  butter.  Asparagus,  or  peas,  should 
be  dressed  to  eat  with  them. 

(2) 


i8 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Pigeon  Pie 

Clean  as  before  ;  season  ;  and,  if  approved,  put  some 
parsley  into  the  birds,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Lay  a  beefsteak  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  hard 
eggs  between  each  two  birds,  and  a  little  water.  If  you  have 
ham  in  the  house,  lay  a  slice  on  each  :  it  is  a  great  improve- 
ment to  the  flavor. 

Observe  when  you  cut  ham  for  sauce  or  pies,  to  turn  it, 
and  take  from  the  under  side  instead  of  the  prime. 

Parsley  Pie 

Lay  veal  or  fowl  at  the  bottom  of  a  pie  dish,  seasoned. 
Take  a  colander  full  of  picked  parsley,  cover  the  meat  with  it, 
and  pour  some  cream  into  the  dish,  and  a  spoontul  or  two  of 
broth.    Cover  with  crust. 


FISH 


Observations  on  Dressing  Fish 

If  the  fishmonger  does  not  clean  it,  fish  is  seldom  very 
nicely  done;  but  those  in  great  towns  wash  it  beyond  what  is 
necessary  for  cleaning,  and  by  perpetual  watering  diminish 
the  flavor.  When  quite  clean,  if  to  be  boiled,  some  salt  and  a 
little  vinegar  should  be  put  to  the  water,  to  give  firmness;  but 
cod,  whiting  and  haddock,  are  far  better, if  a  little  salted,  and 
kept  a  day;  and,  if  not  very  hot  weather,  they  will  be  good  in 
two  days. 

Those  who  know  how  to  purchase  fish,  may,  by  taking 
more  at  a  time  than  they  want  for  one  day,  often  get  it  cheap, 
and  that  which  will  hang  by  sprinkling,  may  then  be  bought  to 
advantage. 

The  fish  must  be  put  into  the  water  while  cold,  and  set  to 
do  very  gently,  or  the  outside  will  break  before  the  inner  part 
be  done. 

The  fish  plate  on  which  it  is  done,  may  be  drawn  up  to 
see  if  it  be  ready;  it  will  leave  tne  bone  when  it  is.  It  should 
be  then  immediately  taken  out  of  the  water,  or  it  will  be  wool- 
ly. The  fishplate  should  be  set  cross-ways  over  the  kettle,  to 
keep  hot  for  serving,  and  a  clean  cloth  should  cover  the  fish, 
to  prevent  its  losing  its  color. 

Small  fish,  nicely  fried  in  egg  and  crumbs,  make  a  dish 
of  fish  far  more  elegant  than  served  plain.  Great  attention 
should  be  paid  to  garnishing  fish;  plenty  of  horseradish,  pars- 
ley, and  lemon. 

When  well  done,  and  with  very  good  sauce,  fish  is  more 
attended  to  than  almost  any  other  dish.  The  liver  and  roe 
should  be  placed  on  the  dish,  so  nonspicuously  that  the  lady 
may  6ee  them,  and  help  a  part  to  every  one.  The  sound  of  the 
cod,  its  head,  and  the  head  of  carp,  are  reckoned  the  prime 
parts;  and  it  is  a  part  of  necessary  attention  to  help,  or  at  least 
offer  some  of  the  best  to  one's  friends;  nor  is  it  any  excuse 
for  the  mistress's  negligence,  that  it  is  the  fashion  of  the  pre- 


20 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


sent  day  for  those  who  sit  at  her  right  or  left  hand  to  help  the 
company,  which  she  must  see  they  do  properly. 

If  salmon  is  to  be  dressed,  great  care  is  necessary  that  it 
be  done  enough.    No  vinegar  should  be  boiled  with  it. 

If  fish  is  to  be  fried  or  broiled,  it  must  be  wrapped  in  a 
nice  soft  cloth,  after  it  is  well  cleaned  and  washed.  When 
perfectly  dry,  wet  with  an  egg,  if  the  former  way,  and  sprinkle 
the  finest  crumbs  of  bread  over  it,  then  having  a  thick  bottom- 
ed frying  pan  on  the  fire,  with  a  large  quantity  of  lard  or  drip- 
ping boiling  hot,  plunge  the  fish  into  it,  and  let  it  fry  middling 
quick,  till  the  color  be  a  fine  yellow  brown,  and  it  be  judged 
ready:  if  the  latter  take  place  first,  the  cook  should  draw  the 
pan  to  the  side  of  the  fire;  lest  the  color  be  spoiled.  She 
should  then  carefully  take  it  up,  and  either  place  it  on  a  large 
sieve  turned  upward,  and  to  be  kept  for  that  purpose  only,  or 
on  the  underside  of  a  dish  to  drain;  and  if  wanted  very  nice,  a 
sheet  of  cap-paper  must  be  put  to  receive  the  fish,  which 
should  look  a  beautiful  color,  and  all  crumbs  appear  distinct; 
the  fish  being  free  from  all  grease. 

Garnish  with  a  fringe  of  curled  raw  parsley,  or  parsley 
fried,  which  must  be  done  thus;  when  washed  and  picked, 
throw  it  again  into  clean  water;  when  the  lard  or  dripping- 
boils,  throw  the  parsley  into  it  immediately  from  the  water, 
and  instantly  it  will  be  green  and  crisp,  and  must  be  done 
after  the  fish  is  fried. 

If  the  fish  is  to  be  broiled,  it  must  be  seasoned  and  floured, 
and  put  on  a  gridiron  that  is  very  clean,  and  when  hot,  it 
should  be  rubbed  with  a  bit  of  suet,  to  prevent  the  fish  from 
sticking.  It  must  be  broiled  on  a  very  clear  fire,  that  it  may 
riot  be  scorched. 

Stuffing  for  Pike,  Haddock,  Etc. 

Of  fat  bacon,  beef-suet,  and  fresh  butter,  equal  parts;  some 
parsley,  thyme,  and  savory;"  a  little  onion,  and  a  few  leaves  of 
scented  marjoram,  shred  finely;  an  anchovy  or  two;  a  little  salt 
and  nutmeg,  and  some  pepper. 

If  you  have  oysters,  three  or  four  may  be  used  instead  of 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


anchovies.  Mix  all  with  crumbs  of  bread  and  two  yolks  and 
whites  of  eggs  well  beaten,  and  parsley  shred  fine. 

Sprats 

When  cleaned,  should  be  fastened  in  rows  by  a  skewer, 
run  through  the  heads,  and  then  broiled,  and  served  hot. 

To  Dress  Sturgeon 

Cut  slices,  rub  egg  over,  then  sprinkle  with  crumbs  of 
bread,  parsley,  pepper,  salt  and  fold  in  paper,  and  broil  gently. 
Sauce;  butter,  anchovy,  and  soy. 

Thornback,  or  Skate 

Should  be  hung  one  day  at  least,  before  it  be  dressed, 
and  may  be  served  either  boiled,  or  fried  in  crumbs,  being 
first  dipped  in  egg. 

Crimp  Skate 

Boiled  and  sent  up  in  a  napkin;  or  fried  as  above. 

Maids 

Should  be  likewise  hung  one  day  at  least.  May  be  boiled 
or  fried:  or  if  of  a  tolerable  size,  the  middle  may  be  boiled  and 
the  fins  fried.  They  should  be  dipped  in  eggs,  and  covered 
with  crumbs. 

An  Excellent  Imitation  of  Sturgeon 

Take  a  fine  large,  but  not  an  old  turkey;  pick  it  most 
nicely;  singe  it,  and  make  it  very  clean;  bone,  wash,  and  dry  it; 
tie  it  across  and  across,  with  a  bit  of  mastring  washed  clean, 
as  they  tie  sturgeon.  Put  into  a  very  nice  tin  saucepan  a  quart 
of  water,  the  same  of  vinegar,  and  of  white-wine,  that  is  not 
sweet,  and  a  very  large  handful  of  salt.  Let  boil,  and  skim 
well,  then  put  in  the  turkey;  when  done,  take  it  out  and  tight- 
en the  strings.  Let  the  liquor  boil  half  an  hour  after,  and 
when  cold,  put  it  on  the  turkey.  If  salt  or  vinegar  be  wanting, 
add  when  cold.  This  will  keep  some  months.  You  eat  it  with  oil 
and  vinegar.  It  is  more  delicate  than  sturgeon,  and  makes  a 
pretty  variety,  if  the  real  is  not  to  be  had.  Cover  it  with  fennel 
when  brought  to  table. 


22 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


To  Boil  Turbot 

The  turbot  kettle  must  be  of  a  proper  size,  and  in  the 
nicest  order.  Set  the  fish  in  cold  water,  to  cover  it  completely: 
throw  a  handful  of  salt  and  one  glass  of  vinegar  into  it;  let  it 
gradually  boil;  be  very  careful  that  there  fall  no  blacks,  but 
skin  it  well,  and  preserve  the  beauty  of  the  color. 

Serve  it  garnished  with  a  complete  fringe  of  curled  pars- 
ley, lemon,  and  horse-radish. 

The  sauce  must  be  the  finest  lobster,  and  anchovy  butter, 
and  plain  butter,  served  plentifully  in  separate  tureens. 

To  Stew  Lamprey,  as  at  Worcester 

After  cleaning  the  fish  carefully,  remove  the  cartilage 
which  runs  down  the  back,  and  season  with  a  small  quantity 
of  cloves,  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  pimento.  Put  it  in  a 
small  stew-pot,  with  very  strong  beef  gravy,  with  Port  and 
equal  quantity  of  Madeira  or  Sherry  wine. 

It  must  be  covered;  stew  till  tender;  then  take  out  the  lam- 
prey and  keep  it  hot,  while  you  boil  up  the  liquor  with  two  or 
three  anchovies  chopped,  and  some  flour  and  butter:  strain 
the  gravy  through  a  sieve,  and  add  lemon-juice  and  some  made 
mustard.    Serve  with  sippets  of  bread  and  horseradish, 

Eels,  soles,  and  carp,  done  the  same  way,  are  excellent. 
When  there  is  spawn,  it  must  be  fried  and  put  around. 

Note.     Cider,  instead  of  white  wine,  will  do  in  common. 

Eel  Pie 

Cut  the  eels  in  lengths  of  two  or  three  inches:  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  in  the  dish,  with  some  bits  of 
butter  and  a  little  water,  and  cover  it  with  paste. 

Spitchcock  Eels 

Take  a  large  one,  leave  the  skin  on,  cut  it  in  pieces  of 
four  inches  long,  open  it  on  the  belly  side,  and  clean  it  nicely; 
wipe  it  dry  and  then  wet  it  with  a  beaten  egg,  and  stew  it  over 
on  both  sides  with  chopped  parsley,  pepper,   salt,  very  little 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


23 


sage,  and  a  bit  of  mace  pounded  fine  and  mixed  with  the  sea- 
soning. Rub  the  gridiron  with  a  bit  of  suet,  and  broil  the  fish 
of  a  fine  color.     Serve  with  anchovy  and  butter  for  sauce. 

Fried  Eels 

If  small,  they  should  be  curled  round  and  fried,  being  first 
dipped  in  egg  and  crumbs  of  bread. 

Boiled  Eels 

The  small  ones  are  preferable.  Do  them  in  a  small  quanti- 
ty of  water,  with  a  good  deal  of  parsley,  which  should  be 
served  up  with  them  and  the  liquor. 

Serve  chopped  parsley  and  butter  for  sauce. 

Eel  Broth 

Very  nourishing  for  the  sick. 

As  above;  but  to  be  stewed  two  hours,  and  an  onion  and 
pepper-corns  added:  salt  to  taste. 

Collared  Eels 

Bone  a  large  eel,  but  do  not  skin  it;  mix  pepper,  salt, 
mace,  pimento,  and  a  clove  or  two,  in  the  finest  powder,  and 
rub  over  the  whole  inside:  roll  it  tight,  and  bind  it  with  a 
coarse  tape.  Boil  it  in  salt  and  water  till  enough;  then  add 
vinegar,  and,  when  cold,  keep  the  collar  in  pickle.  Serve  it 
whole,  or  in  slices,  garnished  with  parsley.  Chopped  sage, 
parsley,  and  a  little  thyme,  knotted  marjoram  and  savory,  mix- 
ed with  the  spices,  greatly  improve  the  taste. 

Perch  and  Tench 

Put  them  in  cold  water,  boil  them  carefully,  and  serve 
with  melted  butter  and  soy. 


24 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Mackerel 

Boiled,  and  served  with  butter  and  fennel. 
Broiled,  being  split  and  sprinkled  with  herbs,  pepper  ar.d 
salt;  or  stuffed  with  the  same,  crumbs  and  chopped  fennel. 
Collared,  as  eel  above. 

Potted.  Clean,  season  and  bake  them  in  a  pan,  with  spice, 
bay-leaves,  and  some  butter:  when  cold,  lay  them  in  a  potting- 
pot,  and  cover  with  butter. 

Pickled,  boil  them;  then  boil  some  vinegar:  when  cold, 
pour  it  over  them. 

To  Pickle  Mackerel,  Called  Caveach 

Clean  and  divide,  then  cut  each  side  in  three;  or  leaving 
them  undivided,  cut  each  fish  in  five  or  six  pieces.  To  six 
large  mackerel,  take  near  an  ounce  of  pepper,  two  nutmegs,  a 
little  mace,  four  cloves,  and  a  handful  of  salt,  all  in  finest 
powder;  mix,  and,  making  holes  in  each  bit  of  fish,  thrust  the 
seasoning  into  them;  rub  each  piece  with  some  of  it;  then  fry 
them  brown  in  oil;  let  them  stand  till  cold,  then  put  them  into 
a  stone  jar,  and  cover  with  vinegar;  if  to  keep  long,  pour  oil  on 
the  top.  This  done,  they  may  be  preserved  for  months. 

To  Bake  Pike 

Scale  it,  open  as  near  the  throat  as  you  can,  then  stuff  it 
with  the  following:  grated  bread,  herbs,  anchovies,  oysters, 
suet,  salt,  pepper,  mace,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  four  yolks  of  eggs; 
mix  all  over  the  fire,  till  it  thickens,  then  put  it  into  the  fish, 
sew  it  up.  Butter  should  be  put  over  it  in  little  bits:  bake  it. 
Serve  sauce  of  gravy,  butter. 

Note.  If,  in  helping  a  pike,  the  back  and  belly  be  slit  up, 
and  each  slice  be  gently  drawn  downwards,  there  will  be 
fewer  bones  given. 

Salmon,  to  Boil 

Clean  it  carefully,  boil  it  gently,  and  take  it  out  of  the 
water  as  soon  as  done;  and  let  the  water  be  warm  if  they  be 
split.    Shrimp  or  anchovy  sauce. 


The  Son  then  i  Cookbook 


25 


Salmon,  to  Pickle 

Boil  as  above,  take  the  fish  out  and  boil  the  liquor  with 
bay  leaves,  pepper  corns  and  salt;  add  vinegar  when  cold,  and 
pour  over  the  fish. 

Salmon,  to  Broil 

Cut  slices  about  an  inch  thick;  season,  and  put  them  into 
papers;  twist  them,  and  broil  gently.  Serve  in  the  papers; 
anchovy  sauce. 

Salmon,  to  Pot 

Take  a  large  piece,  scale  and  wipe,  but  do  not  wash  it; 
salt  it  very  well:  let  it  lie  till  the  salt  be  melted  and  drained 
from  it,  then  season  with  beaten  mace,  cloves,  and  whole  pep- 
pers. Lay  in  a  few  bay- leaves,  put  it  close  in  a  pan,  and  cover 
it  over  with  butter,  and  bake  it.  When  well  done,  drain  it 
from  the  gravy,  put  it  in  the  pots  to  keep;  and  when  cold,  cover 
with  clarified  butter. 

Salmon,  to  Dry 

Cut  the  fish  down,  take  out  the  inside  and  roe.  Rub  the 
whole  with  common  salt,  after  scaling  it;  let  it  hang  to  drain 
twenty-four  hours.  Pound  three  or  four  ounces  of  saltpetre, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  fish,  two  ounces  of  bay  salt,  and 
two  ounces  of  course  sugar:  rub  these  when  mixed  well,  into 
the  salmon,  and  lay  it  on  a  large  dish  or  tray  two  days,  then 
rub  it  well  with  common  salt,  and  in  twenty-four  hours  more 
it  will  be  fit  to  dry;  but  you  must  dry  it  well  after  draining. 
Either  hang  in  a  wood  chimney,  or  in  a  dry  place,  keeping  it 
open  with  two  small  sticks. 

Lobsters,  to  Pot 

Boil  them  half,  pick  out  the  meat,  cut  into  small  bits;  sea- 
son with  mace,  white  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt:  press  close  in- 
to a  pot,  and  cover  with  butter:  bake  half  an  hour:  put  the 
spawn  in.  When  cold,  take  the  lobsters  out,  and  with  a  little 
of  the  butter  put  it  into  the  pots.     Beat  the  other  butter  in  a 


26 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


mortar  with  some  of  the  spawn;  then  mix  that  colored  butter 
with  as  much  as  will  be  sufficient  to  cover  the  pots,  and  strain 
it.    Cayenne  may  be  added,  if  approved. 

Another  Way,  as  at  Wood's  Hotel 

Take  out  the  meat  as  whole  as  you  can;  split  the  tail  and 
*  remove  the  gut;  if  the  inside  be  not  watery,  add  that.  Season 
with  mace,  nutmeg,  white  pepper,  salt,  and  a  clove  or  two  in 
finest  powder.  Lay  a  little  fine  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  pan, 
and  the  lobster  smooth  over  it,  with  bav-leaves  between:  cover, 
it  with  butter,  and  bake  it  gently.  When  done,  poi  r  the  whole 
on  the  bottom  of  a  sieve,  and  with  a  fork  lay  the  pieces  into 
potting  pots,  some  of  each  sort  with  the  seasoning  about  it. 
When  cold,  poor  clarified  butter  over,  but  not  hot.  It  will  be 
good  next  day;  or  highly  seasoned,  and  thick  covered  with  but- 
ter, will  keep  some  time. 

The  potted  lobster  may  be  used  cold,  or  as  a  fricassee, 
with  a  cream  sauce,  when  it  looks  very  nicely,  and  eats  excel- 
lently, especially  if  there  be  spawn. 

Mackerel,  herrings,  and  trout,  are  good  potted  as  above. 

Stewed  Lobster,  as  a  Very  High  Relish 

Pick  the  lobster,  put  the  berries  into  a  dish  that  has  a 
lamp,  and  rub  them  down  with  a  bit  of  butter,  two  spoonfuls 
of  any  sort  of  gravy,  one  of  soy  or  walnut  catsup,  a  little  salt 
and  cayenne,  and  a  spoonful  of  port.  Stew  the  lobster  cut  in 
bits  with  the  gravy,  as  above.  It  must  be  dressed  at  table,  and 
eaten  immediately. 

Lobster  Pie 

Boil  two  lobsters,  or  three  small;  take  out  the  tails,  cut 
them  in  two,  take  out  the  gut,  cut  each  in  four  pieces,  and  lay 
them  in  a  small  dish.  Then  put  in  the  meat  of  the  claws,  and 
that  you  have  picked  out  of  the  body;  pick  off  the  furry  parts 
from  the  latter,  and  take  out  the  latter;  then  take  the  spawn, 
beat  it  in  a  mortar,  likewise  all  the  shells.     Set  them  on  to 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


27 


stew  with  some  water,  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  some  pounded  mace.  A  large  piece  of  butter, 
rolled  in  flour,  must  be  added  when  the  goodness  of  the  shells 
is  obtained.  Give  a  boil  or  two,  and  pour  into  the  dish  strain- 
ed: strew  some  crumbs  over,  and  put  a  paste  over  all.  Bake 
slowly,  but  only  till  the  paste  be  done. 

Curry  of  Lobsters  or  Prawns 

When  taken  out  of  the  shells,  simmer  them  as  above. 

Hot  Crab 

Pick  the  meat  out  of  a  crab,  clear  the  shell  from  the 
head,  then  put  the  former,  with  a  very  small  bit  of  nutmeg, 
salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  butter,  crumbs  of  bread,  and  three  spoon- 
fuls of  vinegar,  into  the  shell  again,  and  set  it  before  the  fire. 
You  may  brown  it  with  a  salamander. 

Dry  toast  should  be  served  to  eat  it  upon. 

Buttered  Lobsters 

Pick  the  meat  out;  cut  it  and  warm  with  a  little  weak 
brown  gravy,  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  with  a  little 
flour.    If  done  white,  a  little  white  gravy  and  cream. 

To  Dress  Red  Herrings 

Choose  those  that  are  large  and  moist;  cut  them  open, 
and  pour  some  boiling  small  beer  over  them,  to  soak  half  an 
hour.  Drain  them  dry,  and  make  them  just  hot  through  be- 
fore the  fire;  then  rub  some  cold  butter  over  them  and  serve. 
Egg  sauce,  or  buttered  eggs  and  mashed  potatoes,  should  be 
served  with  them. 

Baked  Herrings  or  Sprats 

Wash  and  drain  without  wiping  them.  Season  with  Ja- 
maica pepper  in  fine  powder,  salt,  a  whole  clove  or  two:  lay 
them  in  a  pan  with  plenty  of  black  pepper,  an  onion,  and  a  few 
bay  leaves.  Put  half  vinegar  and  half  small  beer,  enough  to 
cover  them.  Put  paper  over  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 
If  you  like,  throw  saltpetre  over  them  the  night  before,  to 
make  them  look  red.    Gut,  but  do  not  open  them. 


2S 


The  Sou t lie r u  Cookbook 


To  Smoke  Herrings 

Clean  and  lay  them  in  salt,  and  a  little  saltpetre  one 
night;  then  hang  them  on  a  stick,  through  the  eves,  on  a  row. 
Have  ready  an  old  cask,  on  which  put  some  sawdust,  and  in 
the  midst  of  it  a  heater  red  hot;  over  the  smoke  fix  the  stick, 
and  let  them  remain  twentv-four  hours. 

Fried  Herrings 

Serve  them  of  a  light  brown,  and  onions  sliced  and  fried. 

Broiled  Herrings 

Floured  first,  and  done  of  good  color.  Plain  butter  for 
sauce.    They  are  very  good  potted  like  mackerel. 

Soles 

If  boiled,  they  must  be  served  with  great  care  to  look 
perfectly  white,  and  should  be  much  covered  with  parsley. 

If  fried,  dip  them  in  egg,  and  cover  them  with  fine  crumbs 
of  bread.  Set  on  a  frying-pan  that  is  just  large  enough,  and 
put  into  it  a  large  quantity  of  fresh  lard  or  dripping;  boil  it, 
and  immediatelv  slip  the  fish  into  it.  Do  them  to  a  fine  brown. 
When  enough,  take  them  out  carefully,  and  lay  them  upon  a 
dish  turned  under  side  uppermost,  and  placed  slantingly,  be- 
fore the  fire  to  drain  off  the  fat.  If  you  wish  them  to  be  par- 
ticularly nice,  place  them  on  clean  paper,  and  let  lay  some 
minutes. 

Observe,  that  fish  never  looks  well  if  not  fried  in  plenty 
of  fat,  and  that  boiling  hot,  before  it  be  put  into  it.  The  drip- 
ping may  serve  again  with  a  little  fresh.  Take  care  the  fat 
does  not  become  black.  Butter  makes  everything  black  that 
is  fried  in  it.  The  soles  should  just  fit  the  inside  of  the  dish, 
and  a  fringe  of  curled  parsley  garnish  the  edge  completely, 
which  looks  beautiful. 

Soles  that  have  been  fried,  eat  gocd  cold,  with  oil,  vine- 
gar, salt,  and  mustard.  Note.  Fine  oil  gives  the  finest  color, 
but  is  expensive. 


The  Sou  the  rn  Cookbook 


29 


Stewed  Soles,  and  Carp 

Are  to  be  done  like  lampreys. 

Soles  in  the  Portuguese  Way 

Take  one  large,  or  two  lesser;  if  the  former,  cut  the  fish 
in  two,  if  they  are  small,  they  need  only  to  be  split.  The 
bones  being  taken  out,  put  the  fish  in  a  pan,  with  a  bit  of  but- 
ter and  some  lemon-juice:  give  it  a  fry;  then  lay  the  fish  on  a 
dish,  and  spread  a  forcemeat  over  each  piece,  and  roll  it  round, 
fastening  the  roll  with  a  few  small  skewers.  Lay  the  rolls  in 
a  small  earthen  pan;  beat. an  egg  and  wet  them,  then  strew 
crumbs  over,  and  put  the  remainder  of  the  eggs,  with  a  little 
meat  gravy,  a  spoonful  of  caper  liquor,  an  anchovy  chopped 
fine,  and  some  parsley  chopped,  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan; 
cover  it  close,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  fish  be  done 
enough.  Then  place  the  rolls  in  the  dish  for  serving;  cover 
it  to  keep  it  hot  until  the  gravy  baked  be  skimmed:  if  not 
enough,  a  little  fresh,  flavored  as  above,  must  be  prepared  and 
added  to  it. 

Stuffing  for  Soles,  Baked 

Pound  cold  beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  a  little,  then  add  some 
fat  bacon,  that  has  been  lightly  fried,  cut  small,  and  some 
onions,  a  little  garlic,  or  shallot,  some  parsley,  anchovy, 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Pound  all  fine,  with  a  few  crumbs, 
and  bind  it  with  two  or  three  yolks  of  eggs. 

The  heads  of  the  fish  are  to  be  left  on  one  side  of  the 
split  part,  and  kept  on  the  outer  side  of  the  roll ;  and,  when 
served,  the  heads  are  to  be  turned  towards  each  other  in  the 
dish. 

Garnish  with  fried  or  dried  parsley. 

Sole,  Cod,  or  Turbot  Pie :  Another  Sort  of  Stuffing 

Boil  two  pounds  of  eel  tender  ;  pick  all  the  flesh  clean 
from  the  bones  ;  throw  the  latter  into  the  liquor  the  eels  were 
boiled  in,  with  a  little  mace,  salt,  and  parsley,  and  boil  till 
very  good,  and  come  to  a  quarter  of  a  pint,  and  strain  it. 


30 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


In  the  mean  time,  cut  the  flesh  of  the  eels  fine,  likewise  some 
lemon-peel,  parsley,  and  an  anchovy  :  put  to  them  pepper,  salt 
nutmeg,  and  some  crumbs.  Melt  four  ounces  of  butter,  and 
mix,  then  lay  it  in  a  dish  at  the  bottom  :  cut  the  flesh  of  two 
or  three  soles  clean  from  the  bones,  and  fins  ;  lay  it  on  the 
forcemeat,  and  pour  the  eel  broth  in.  The  bones  of  the  soles 
should  be  boiled  with  those  of  the  eels.  You  may  boil  them 
with  one  or  two  little  eels,  and  pour  it,  well  seasoned,  on  the 
fish,  and  put  on  forcemeat. 

An  Excellent  way  of  Dressing  a  Larger  Plaice,   Especially  if 

There   be  a  Roe 

Sprinkle  it  with  salt,  and  keep  it  twenty-four  hours,  then 
wash  and  wipe  it  dry  :  wet  it  over  with  eggs  ;  cover  with 
crumbs  of  bread  ;  make  some  lard  or  fine  dripping,  and  two 
large  spoonfuls  of  vinegar  boiling  hot,  lay  the  fish  in,  and  fry 
it  a  fine  color.  Drain  it  from  the  fat,  and  serve  with  fried 
parsley  round,  and  anchovy  sauce.  You  may  dip  the  fish  in 
vinegar,  and  not  put  it  in  the  pan. 

To  Fry  Smelts 

They  should  not  be  washed  more  than  necessary  to  clean. 
Dry  in  a  cloth,  then  lightly  flour,  but  shake  it  off.  Dip  them 
in  plenty  of  egg,  then  into  bread  crumbs  grated  fine,  and 
plunge  them  into  a  good  pan  of  boiling  lard.  Let  them  con- 
tinue gently  boiling,  and  a  few  minutes  will  make  them  a 
bright  yellow  brown.  Take  care  not  to  take  off  the  light 
roughness  of  the  crumbs,  or  their  beauty  will  be  lost. 

Boiled  Carp 

Serve  in  a  napkin,  and  with  the  sauce  directed  for  it 
among  sauces. 

Cod's    Head  and  Shoulders 

Will  eat  much  finer  by  having  a  little  salt  rubbed  down 
the  bone,  and  along  the  thick  part,  even  if  to  be  eaten  the 
same  day. 

Tie  it  up,  and  put  on  the  fire  in  cold  water  which  will 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


3i 


completely  cover  it :  throw  a  handful  of  salt  in  it.  Great  care 
must  be  taken  to  serve  it  without  the  smallest  speck  of  black 
or  scum.  Garnish  with  a  large  quantity  of  double  parsley, 
lemon,  horseradish,  and  the  milk,  roe.  and  liver,  and  smelts 
fried,  if  approved.  If  the  latter,  be  cautious  that  no  water 
hang  about  the  fish,  or  the, beauty  of  the  smelts  will  be  taken 
off,  as  well  as  their  flavor. 

Serve  with  plenty  of  oysters  or  shrimp  sauce,  and 
anchovy  and  butter. 

Some  people  boil  the  cod  whole  ;  but  there  is  no  fish 
that  is  more  proper  to  help,  than  in  a  large  head  and  shoul- 
ders, the  thinner  parts  being  overdone  and  tasteless  before  the 
thick  be  ready  :  but  the  whole  fish  may  be  purchased  at 
times,  more  reasonable,  and  the  lower  half,  if  sprinkled  the 
least,  and  hung  up,  will  be  in  high  perfection  in  one  or  two 
days :  or  it  may  be  made  Salter,  and  serve  with  egg  sauce, 
potatoes,  and  parsnips. 

Crimp  Cod 

Boil,  broil,  or  fry. 

Cod  Sounds,  Boiled 

Soak  them  in  warm  water  till  soft,  then  scrape  and  clean; 
and,  if  to  be  dressed  white,  boil  them  in  milk  and  water,  and 
when  tender,  serve  them  in  a  napkin.    Egg  sauce. 

Cod  Sounds,  Ragout 

Prepare  as  above,  then  stew  them  in  white  gravy  seasoned; 
cream,  butter,  and  a  little  bit  of  flour  added  before  you  serve, 
gently  boiling  up.  A  bit  of  lemon-peel,  nutmeg,  and  the  least 
pounded  mace,  should  give  the  flavor. 

Curry  of  Cod 

Should  be  made  of  sliced  cod  that  has  either  been  crimp- 
ed, or  sprinkled  a  day  to  make  it  firm.  Fry  it  of  a  fine  brown, 
with  onions,  and  stew  it  with  a  good  white  gravy,  a  little 
curry  powder,  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour,  three  or  four  spoon- 
fuls of  rich  cream,  salt,  and  cayenne. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Fish  Pie 

Cod  or  Haddock,  sprinkled  with  salt  to  give  firmess, 
slice  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  in  a  dish 
mixed  with  oysters.  Put  the  oyster  liquor,  a  little  broth,  and 
a  bit  of  flour  and  butter,  boiled  together,  into  the  dish  cold: 
Put  a  paste  over  ;  and  when  it  comes  from  the  oven,  pour  in 
some  warm  cream.  If  you  please,  you  may  put  parslev 
instead  of  oysters. 

Haddock 

Do  the  same  as  cod,  and  serve  with  the  same  sauce  :  or, 
stuff  with  forcemeat,  or  boil  them  with  stuffing. 

Potato  Pasty 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  potatoes  as  fine  as  possible  ;  then 
mix  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  thick  cream,  or  if  vou  preterit 
it,  butter.  Make  a  paste,  and,  rolling  out  like  a  large  puff, 
put  the  potato  into  it  and  bake  it. 

Turnip  Pie 

Season  mutton  chops  with  pepper  and  salt ;  lav  them  in 
the  bottom  of  a  dish,  reserving  the  ends  of  the  bones  to  lay 
over  the  turnips  ;  which  cut  and  season,  and  lav  over  the 
steaks  tilr  the  dish  is  full.  Put  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of 
water  in,  and  cover  with  crust.    Vou  may  add  a  little  onion: 

Shrimp  Pie.  Excellent 

Take  a  quart  of  picked  shrimps  :  if  very  salt,  only  season 
with  mace,  and  a  clove  or  two  in  fine  powder  ;  but  if  not  salt, 
mince  two  or  three  anchovies,  mix  with  spice,  and  season 
them.  Pat  some  butter  at  the  bottom  of  dish,  and  over  the 
shrimps,  and  a  glass  of  sharp  white  wine.  Put  a  good  light 
paste  over.    They  do  not  require  long  baking. 

Cornish  Pies 

Scald  and  blanch  some  broad  beans  :  cut  mushroom,  car- 
rots, turnips,  and  artichoke  bottoms,  and  with  some  peas,  and 
a  little  onion,  make  the  whole  into  a  nice  stew,  with  some 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


33 


good  veal  gravy.  Bake  a  crust  over  a  dish,  with  a  little  lining 
around  the  edge,  and  a  cup  within  to  keep  it  from  sinking : 
open  the  lid,  and  put  in  the  fricassee  made  hot  ;  seasoning  to 
your  taste.  Shallots,  parsley,  lettuce,  celery,  or  any  sort  of 
of  vegetables  that  you  like,  may  be  added. 

Fish  Pie 

Put  slices  of  cod  that  have  been  salted  a  night;  pepper,  and 
between  each  layer  put  a  good  quantity  of  parsley  picked  from 
the  stalks,  and  some  fresh  butter  Pour  a  little  broth,  if  you 
have  any,  or  else  a  little  water.  Bake  the  pie  ;  and  when  to 
be  served,  add  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  raw  cream  warm,  with  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour.    Oysters  may  be  added. 

Mackerel  will  do  well ;  but  do  not  salt  till  used. 

Soles,  with  oysters,  seasoned  with  pounded  mace,  nut- 
meg, pepper,  an  anchovy,  and  some  salt,  make  an  excellent  pie. 
Put  in  the  oysters,  liquor,  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  broth,  and 
some  butter  for  gravy.  When  come  from  the  oven,  pour  in  a 
cup  of  thick  cream. 


(3) 


34 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


HARES,  RABBITS,  ETC. 

To  Prepare  Meat  or  Fowls  for  Raised  Pies 

When  washed  put  a  good  seasoning  of  spices  and  salt. 
Set  it  over  a  fire  in  a  stewpan,  that  will  just  hold  the  meat : 
put  a  piece  of  butter,  and,  covering  close,  let  it  simmer  in  its 
own  steam  till  it  shrinks.  It  must  be  cool  before  it  be  put  in- 
to the  pie.  Chicken's  sweetbreads,  giblets,  pigeon's  meat,  al- 
most anything  will  make  a  good  pie, .  if  well  seasoned,  and 
made  tender  by  stewing.  A  forcemeat  may  be  put  under 
and  over,  if  cold  chicken  or  veal,  fat  bacon,  shied  ham,  heibs, 
bread,  and  seasoning,  bound  with  an  egg  or  two  or  in  balls. 
Or  instead  of  crust,  use  an  earthen  pie  form, 

HARES 

If  old,  should  be  larded  with  bacon,  after  having  hung  as 
long  as  they  will  keep,  and  being  first  soaked  in  pepper  and 
vinegar. 

If  not  paunched  as  soon  as  killed,  hares  are  more  juicy : 
but  as  that  is  usually  done  in  the  field,  the  cook  must  be  care- 
ful to  wipe  it  dry  every  day  ;  the  liver  being  removed,  and 
boiled  to  keep  for  the  stuffing. 

Parsley  put  in  the  belly  will  help  to  keep  it  fresh. 

When  to  be  dressed,  the  hare  must  be  well  soaked;  and 
if  the  neck  and  shoulders  are  bloody,  in  warm  water :  then 
dry  it,  and  put  to  it  a  large  fine  stuffing,  made  of  the  liver,  an 
anchovv,  some  fat  bacon,  a  little  suet,  herbs,  spice,  and  bread 
crumbs,  with  an  egg  to  bind  it.  Sew  it  up.  Observe  that 
the  ears  are  nicely  cleansed  and  singed.  When  half  roasted, 
cut  the  skin  of  the  neck  to  let  out  the  blood,  which  afterwards, 
fixes  there.  Baste  with  milk  till  three  parts  done,  then  with 
butter,  and  before  served,  froth  it  up  with  flour.  It  should  be 
put  down  early,  kept  at  a  great  distance  at  first  from  the  fire, 
and  drawn  near  by  degrees. 

Send  a  rich  brown  gravy  in  the  dish  ;  melted  butter  in 
one  boat,  and  currant  jelly  in  another. 


The  Souther) i  Cookbook  35 

To  Jug  an  Old  Hare 

After  it  is  well  cleansed  and  skinned,  cut  it  up  and  sea- 
son it  with  pepper,  allspice,  salt,  pounded  mace,  and  a  little 
nutmeg  :  put  it  into  a  jar,  with  an  onion,  a  clove  or  two,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  over  all  a  bit  of  coarse  beef.  Tie 
it  down  with  a  bladder  and  leather  quite  close,  and  put  the  jar 
into  a  saucepan  of  water  up  to  the  neck,  but  no  higher.  Let 
the  water  boil  gently  five  hours.  When  to  be  served,  pour  the 
gravy  into  a  saucepan,  and  thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour; 
or  if  become  cold,  warm  the  hare  with  the  gravy. 

Hare  Soup.    See  Soups 
Hare  Pie 

Season  the  hare  after  it  is  cut  up.  Put  eggs  and  force- 
meat, and  either  bake  in  a  raised  crust  or  a  dish  :  if  in  the 
former,  put  cold  jelly  gravy  to  it  ;  if  for  the  latter,  the  same 
hot ;  but  the  pie  is  to  be  eaten  cold.  See  jelly  among  similar 
articles. 

Potted  Hare 

Having  seasoned,  and  baked  it  with  butter  over,  cover  it 
with  brown  paper,  and  let  it  grow  cold.  Then  take  the  meat  from 
the  bones,  beat  it  into  a  mortar,  and  add  salt,  mace,  pepper,  if 
not  high  enough  ;  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  melted,  and  a  spoonful 
of  the  gravy  that  came  from  the  hare  when  baked.  Put  the 
meat  into  small  pots,  and  cover  it  well  with  butter  warmed. 
The  prime  should  be  baked  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot. 

Broiled  Hare  and  Hashed 

The  flavor  of  broiled  hare  is  particularly  fine.  The  legs 
or  wings  peppered  and  salted  first,  and  when  done,  rubbed 
with  cold  butter. 

The  other  parts  warmed  with  the  gravy  and  a  little  stuf- 
fing. 


36 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


RABBITS 

May  be  eaten  various  ways. 
Roasted  with  stuffing  and  gravy. 

Roasted  without  stuffing  ;  and  with  liver,  parsley,  and 
butter  :  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Boiled,  and  smothered  with  onion  sauce  ;  the  butter  being 
melted  with  milk  instead  of  water. 

Fried,  and  served  with  dried  or  fried  parsley,  and  liver 
sauce  as  above. 

Fricaseed,  as  directed  for  chicken. 

Made  into  pies,  as  chicken,  with  forcemeat,  etc,  are  ex- 
cellent when  young. 

To  Make  Rabbit  Taste  Much  Like  Hare 

Choose  a  young  full  grown  one  :  hang  it,  with  the  skin 
on,  two  or  three  days  :  skin,  and  lay  it  unwashed  in  a  season- 
ing of  black  and  Jamaica  peppers,  in  fine  powder,  putting  some 
port  wine  into  the  dish,  and  baste  it  occasionally  for  forty 
hours  :  then  stuff  and  roast  it  as  hare,  and  with  the  same 
sauce.    Do  not  wash  off  the  liquor  that  it  lay  in. 

Potted  Rabbit 

Cut  up  and  season  three  or  four  after  washing  them.  The 
seasoning  must  be  mace,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  cayenne,  and  a 
few  pimentos  in  finest  powder.  Pack  them  as  close  as  possi- 
ble, in  a  small  pan,  and  make  the  surface  smooth.  Keep  out 
the  carcasses,  having  taken  all  the  meat  off  them,  and,  putting 
a  good  deal  of  butter  over  the  rabbits,  bake  them  gently. 
Let  them  remain  a  day  or  two,  then  remove  into  potting  pans; 
and  add  some  fresh  butter  to  that  which  already  covers  them. 

Egg  Mince  pies 

Boil  six  eggs  hard,  and  shred  them  small :  shred  double 
the  quantity  of  suet  ;  then  put  currants  washed  and  picked, 
one  pound  or  more,  if  the  eggs  are  large  ;  the  peel  of  one 
lemon  shred  very  fine,  half  the  juice,  six  spoonfuls  of  sweet 
wine  ;  mace,  nutmeg,  sugar,  a  very  little  salt,  orange,  lemon, 
and  citron  candied.    Make  a  light  paste  for  them. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


37 


Savory  Rice 

Wash  and  pick  some  rice  :  stew  it  very  gently  in  a  small 
quantity  of  veal,  or  rich  mutton  broth,  with  an  onion,  a  blade 
of  mace,  pepper,  and  salt.  When  swelled,  but  not  boiled  to 
mash,  dry  it  on  the  shallow  end  of  the  sieve  before  the  fire, 
and  either  sieve  it  dry,  or  put  it  in  the  middle  of  a  dish,  and 
pour  the  gravy  around  it,  having  heated  it. 

Buttered  Rice 

Prepare  some  rice  as  above  :  drain,  and  put  it  with  some 
new  milk,  enough  just  to  swell  it,  over  the  fire.  When  tender, 
pour  off  the  milk,  and  add  a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  sugar,  and 
pounded  cinnanon.  Shake  it,  that  it  does  not  burn,  and 
serve. 

Rice  Boiled  to  Eat  With  Curry  or  Roast  Meats 

Prepare  as  above  ;  then  put  it  into  a  large  quantity  of 
water,  boil  it  quick,  throw  in  a  little  salt,  and  observe  the  very 
moment  when  it  is  swelled  large,  but  not  too  much  softened  ; 
then  drain  off  the  water,  and  pour  the  rice  on  the  shallow  end 
of  the  sieve ;  set  it  before  a  fire,  and  let  it  stay  until  it  sepa- 
rates and  dries.    Serve  it  without  sauce  of  any  kind. 

Omelet 

Make  a  batter  of  eggs  and  milk,  and  a  very  little  flour  ; 
put  to  it  chopped  parsley,  onions,  or  chives  (the  latter  is  best  ;) 
or  a  very  small  quantity  of  shallot,  a  little  pepper,  salt  and  a 
scrape  or  two  of  nutmeg.  Make  some  very  nice  dripping ; 
boil  in  a  small  frying-pan,  and  pour  the  above  batter  into  it. 
When  one  side  is  of  a  fine  yellow  brown,  turn  and  do  the  other. 
Some  scraped  lean  ham,  put  in  at  first,  is  a  very  pleasant  ad- 
dition. Three  eggs  will  make  a  good  pretty  sized  omelet : 
but  many  cooks  will  use  eight  or  ten. 

If  the  taste  be  approved,  a  little  tarragon  gives  a  fine 
flavor.    A  good  deal  of  parsley  should  be  used. 


3« 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Ramekins 

Scrape  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Cheshire,  and  a  quarter 
pound  of  Gloucester  cheese,  and  a  quarter  pound  of  good 
fresh  butter,  then  beat  all  into  a  mortar  with  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  and  the  inside  of  a  small  French  roll  boiled  in  cream  till 
soft.  Mix  the  paste  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  previous- 
ly beaten  and  put  into  small  paper  pans  made  rather  long  than 
square,  and  bake  in  a  Dutch  oven  till  of  a  fine  brown.  They 
should  be  eaten  quite  hot. 

Bacon  Fraise 

Cut  streaked  bacon  in  thin  slices  an  inch  long  ;  make  a 
batter  of  milk,  well  beaten  eggs,  and  flour  ;  put  a  littte  lard 
or  dripping  into  th^  pan,  and  when  hot,  pour  the  batter  in, 
and  cover  it  with  a  dish.  When  fit  to  turn,  put  in  the  bacon, 
and  turn  it  very  carefully,  so  that  the  bacon  does  not  touch 
the  pan. 

Rice  Puff  Paste 

Weigh  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  with  as  much  fine 
flour  as  you  judge  necessary  ;  mix  a  little  of  the  former  \vTith 
the  latter,  and  wet  it  with  as  little  water  as  will  make  into  a 
stiff  paste.  Roll  it  out  and  put  all  the  butter  over  the  slices  ; 
turn  in  the  ends,  and  roll  it  thin  :  do  this  twice,  and  touch 
it  no  more  than  can  be  avoided.  The  butter  may  be  added 
twice,  and  to  those  who  are  not  accustomed  to  make  paste,  it 
may  be  better  to  do  so. 

A  quicker  oven  than  for  short  crust. 

A  Less  Rich  Paste 

Weigh  a  pound  of  flour,  and  a  quarter  pound  of  butter ; 
rub  them  together,  and  mix  into  a  paste  with  a  little  water, 
and  an  egg  well  beaten  ;  of  the  former  as  little  as  will  suffice, 
or  the  paste  will  be  tough.  Roll,  and  fold  in  three  or  fcur 
times. 

Rub  extremely  fine,  in  one  pound  of  dried  flour,  six  ounces 
of  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  white  sugar.  Work  up  the  whole 
into  a  stiff  paste,  with  as  little  hot  water  as  possible. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


39 


German  Puffs,  Another  Way 

Boil  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  in  half  a  pint  of  cream  ; 
stir  until  cold,  then  beat  two  eggs,  strain  them  into  the  cream, 
and  mix  that  by  degrees  into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour:  but- 
ter teacups,  and  into  each  put  three  spoonfuls  of  batter;  bake 
them  half  an  hour,  and  serve  the  moment  they  are  to  be  eaten, 
turned  out  of  the  cups,  with  sauce  of  melted  butter,  sugar,  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Excellent  Short  Crust 

Make  two  ounces  of  white  sugar,  pounded  and  sifted 
quite  dry  ;  then  mix  it  with  a  pound  of  flour  well  dried  ;  rub 
into  it  three  ounces  of  butter  so  fine  as  not  to  be  seen  ;  into 
some  cream  put  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten,  and  mix  the 
above  into  a  smooth  paste  ;  roll  it  thin,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Another 

Mix  with  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  dried,  an  ounce  of  sugar 
pounded  and  sifted  ;  then  crumble  three  ounces  of  butter  in 
it,  till  it  looks  all  like  flour,  and  with  a  gill  of  boiling  cream, 
work  it  up  to  a  fine  paste. 

Light  Paste  for  Tarts  and  Cheesecakes 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  strong  froth  ;  then  mix  it 
with  as  much  water  as  will  make  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
flour  into  a  very  stiff  paste  :  then  roll  it  very  thin,  then  lay 
the  third  part  of  half  a  pound  of  butter  upon  it  in  little  bits  : 
dredge  it  with  some  flour,  left  out  at  first,  and  roll  it  uptight. 
Roll  it  up  again,  and  put  the  same  proportion  of  butter  :  and 
so  proceed  till  all  is  wotked  up. 

Raised  Crust  for  Custards  or  Fruit 

Put  four  ounces  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  with  water  ;  and 
when  it  boils,  pour  it  into  as  much  flour  as  you  choose,  knead 


40 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


and  beat  it  till  smooth  :  cover  it  as  on  the  other  side.  Raise 
it ;  and  if  for  custard,  put  a  paper  within  to  keep  out  the  sides 
till  half  done,  then  fill  with  a  cold  mixture  of  milk,  egg,  sugar, 
and  a  little  peach-water,  lemon-peel,  or  nutmeg.  By  cold  is 
meant  that  the  egg  is  not  to  be  warmed,  but  the  milk  should 
be  warmed  by  itself ;  not  to  spoil  the  crust. 

Raised  Crust  for  Meatpies  or  Fowls,  etc 

Boil  water  with  a  little  fine  lard,  and  an  equal  quantity  of 
fresh  dripping,  or  of  butter,  but  not  much  of  either.  While 
hot,  mix  this  with  as  much  flour  as  you  will  want,  making  the 
paste  as  stiff  as  you  can  to  be  smooth,  which  you  will  make 
it  by  good  kneading,  and  beating  with  the  rolling  pin.  When 
quite  smooth,  put  it  in  a  lump  into  a  cloth,  or  under  a  pan 
to  soak,  till  near  cold. 

Those  who  have  not  a  good  hand  at  raising  crust,  may  do 
this  :  roll  the  paste  of  a  proper  thickness;  and  cut  out  the  top 
and  bottom  of  the  pie,  then  a  long  piece  of  the  side.  Cement 
the  bottom  to  the  sides  with  egg,  bringing  the  former  rather 
further  out,  and  pinching  both  together.  The  same  mode  of 
uniting  the  paste  is  to  be  observed  if  the  sides  are  pressed  into 
a  tin  form,  in  which  the  paste  must  be  cooked,  after  it  shall 
be  filled  and  covered  ;  but  in  the  latter  case  the  tin  should  be 
buttered,  and  carefully  taken  off  when  done  enough;  and  as 
the  form  usually  makes  the  sides  of  a  lighter  color  than  is  prop- 
er, the  paste  should  be  put  into  the  oven  again  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.    With  a  feather  put  egg  over  at  first. 

Crust  for  Venison  Pastry 

To  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  flour  use  two  pounds  and 
a  half  of  butter,  and  four  eggs :  mix  into  paste  with  warm 
water,  and  work  it  smooth  and  to  a  good  consistency.  Put  a 
paste  around  the  inside,  but  not  to  the  bottom  of  the  dish, 
and  let  the  cover  be  pretty  thick,  to  bear  the  long  continuance 
in  the  oven. 


The  Southern  Cookbook  41 

Rice  Pastry 

Boil  a  quarter  pound  of  ground  rice  in  the  smallest  quan- 
tity of  water  :  strain  from  it  all  the  moisture  as  well  as  you 
can.  Beat  it  in  a  mortar,  with  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and 
one  egg  well  beaten,  and  it  will  make  an  excellent  paste  for 
tarts,  etc. 

Potato  Pastry 

Pound  boiled  potatoes  very  fine  ;  and  add,  while  warm,  a 
sufficiency  of  butter  to  make  the  mash  hold  together.  Or 
you  may  mix  with  it  an  egg  ;  then  before  it  gets  cold,  flour 
the  board  pretty  well  to  prevent  it  from  sticking,  and  roll  it 
to  the  thickness  wanted. 

If  it  becomes  quite  cold  before  it  is  put  on  the  dish,  it 
will  be  apt  to  crack. 


42 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


PUDDINGS 

Sixty  recipes  for  various  puddings. 

Almond  Pudding 

Beat  half  a  pound  of  sweet  and  bitter  almonds,  with  a 
spoonful  of  water  ;  then  mix  with  four  ounces  of  butter,  four 
eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream  warmed  with  the  butter,  one  of 
brandy,  a  little  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  taste.  Butter  some  cups 
half  full,  and  bake  the  puddings. 

Serve  with  butter,  wine,  and  sugar. 

Sago  Pudding 

Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk  with  four  spoonfuls  of 
sago,  nicely  washed  and  picked,  lemon-peel,  cinnamon,  and 
nutmeg.  Sweeten  to  taste  :  then  mix  four  eggs,  put  a  paste 
around  the  dish,  and  bake  slowly. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding 

Slice  bread,  spread  with  butter,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish  with 
currants  between  each  layer,  and  sliced  citron,  orange  or 
lemon  if  to  be  very  nice.  Pour  over  an  unboiled  custard  of 
milk,  two  or  three  eggs,  a  few  pimentos,  and  a  very  little 
ratafia,  two  hours  at  least  before  it  is  to  be  baked :  and  lade  it 
over  and  over  to  soak  the  bread. 

A  paste  around  the  dish  makes  all  puddings  look  better, 
but  it  is  not  necessary. 

Orange  Pudding 

Grate  the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange  ;  put  to  it  six  ounces 
of  fresh  butter,  six  or  eight  ounces  of  lump  sugar  pounded  : 
beat  them  all  in  a  marble  mortar,  and  add  as  you  do  it  the 
whole  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten  and  strained  :  scrape  a  raw 
apple,  and  mix  with  the  rest  ;  put  a  paste  at  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  dish,  and,  over  the  orange  mixture,  put  crossbars 
of  paste.    Half  an  hour  will  bake  it. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


43 


Another  Orange  Pudding 

Mix  of  the  orange  paste,  hereafter  directed,  two  full 
spoons,  with  six  eggs,  four  of  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter, 
warm,  and  put  into  a  shallow  dish,  with  a  paste  lining.  Bake 
twenty  minutes. 

Another 

Rather  more  than  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  orange  paste, 
mixed  with  six  eggs,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  four  ounces  of 
butter,  melted;  will  make  a  good  size  pudding,  with  a  paste 
at  the  bottom  of  the  dish.    Bake  twenty  minutes. 

An  Excellent  Lemon  Pudding 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  add  four  ounces  of  white 
sugar,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  being  rubbed  with  some  lumps  of  it 
to  take. the  essence:  then  peel,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with 
the  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  and  mix  all  with  four  or  five  ounces 
of  butter  warmed.  Put  a  crust  into  a  shallow  dish  ;  nick  the 
edges,,  and  put  the  above  into  it.  When  served,  turn  the  pud- 
ding out  of  the  dish. 

A  Very  Fine  Amber  Pudding 

Put  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  with  three  quart- 
ers of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  finely  powdered  ;  melt  the  but- 
ter and  mix  well  with  it  :  then  add  the  yolks  of  fifteen  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  as  much  fresh  candied  orange  as  will  add 
color  and  flavor  to  it,  being  first  beaten  to  a  fine  paste.  Line 
the  dish  with  paste  for  turning  out  ;  and  when  filled  with  the 
above,  lay  a  crust  over  as  you  would  a  pie,  and  bake  it  in  a 
slow  oven. 

It  is  as  good  cold  as  hot. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding 

Pare  and  quarter  four  large  apples  ;  boil  them  tender, 
with  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  in  so  little  water  that  when  done, 
none  may  remain  :  beat  them  quite  fine  in  a  mortar  :  add  the 


44 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


crumbs  of  a  small  roll,  four  ounces  of  butter,  melted,  the  yolks 
of  fiveand  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Beat  all  together,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish  with 
paste  to  turn  out. 

Oatmeal  Pudding 

Pour  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  over  a  pint  of  the  best  fine 
oatmeal ;  let  it  soak  all  night.  Next  day  beat  two  eggs,  and 
mix  a  little  salt :  butter  a  basin  that  will  just  hold  it  :  cover  it 
tight  with  a  floured  cloth,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  Eat 
it  with  cold  butter  and  salt. 

When  cold,  slice  and  toast  it,  and  eat  it  as  oatmeal  but- 
tered. 

Dutch  Puddings  or  S ouster 

Melt  one  pound  of  butter  in  half  a  pint  of  milk :  mix  it 
into  two  pounds  of  flour,  eight  eggs,  four  spoonfuls  of  yeast  : 
add  one  pound  of  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
beaten  and  sifted. 

This  is  a  very  good  pudding  hot ;  and  equally  so  as  a  cake 
when  cold.  If  for  the  latter,  caraways  may  be  used  instead  of 
currants.    An  hour  will  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven. 

A  Dutch  Rice  Pudding 

Soak  four  ounces  of  rice  in  warm  water  half  an  hour  : 
drain  the  latter  from  it,  and  throw  it  into  stewpan,  with  half 
a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  simmer  till  ten- 
der. When  cold,  add  four  whole  eggs  well  beaten,  two  ounces 
of  butter  melted  in  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  ;  and  put  three 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  and  a  good  piece  of 
lemon-peel. 

Put  a  light  puff  paste  into  a  mould  or  dish,  or  grated  tops 
and  bottoms,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Light,  or  German  Puddings 

Melt  three  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  cream  :  let  it 
stand  till  nearly  cold,  then  mix  two  ounces  of  fine  flour,  and 


The  Son  t hern  Cookbook 


45 


two  ounces  of  sugar,  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  and  a 
a  little  rose  or  orange-flower  water.  Bake  in  little  cups,  but- 
tered, half  an  hour.  They  should  be  served  the  moment  they 
are  done,  and  only  when  going  to  be  eaten,  or  they  will  not 
be  light. 

Turn  out  of  the  cups,  and  serve  with  white  wine  and  sugar. 

Little  Bread  Pudding 

Steep  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf  in  about  a  pint  of  warm 
milk :  when  soaked,  beat  six  eggs,  whites,  and  yolks,  and  mix 
with  the  bread,  and  two  ounces  of  butter  warmed,  sugar, 
orange-flower  water,  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  a  little  nutmeg,  and 
a  teacupful  of  cream.  Beat  all  well,  and  bake  in  teacups  but- 
tered. If  currants  are  chosen,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  is  suffi- 
cient ;  if  not,  they  are  good  without ;  or  you  may  put  orange 
or  lemon  candy.    Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

Puddings  in  Haste  . 

Shred  suet,  and  put  with  grated  bread,  a  few  currants, 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two,  some  grated 
lemon-peel,  and  ginger.  Mix,  and  make  into  little  balls  about 
the  size  and  shape  of  an  egg,  with  a  little  flour. 

Have  ready  a  skillet  of  boiling  water,  and  throw  them  in. 
Twenty  minutes  will  boil  them  ;  but  they  will  rise  to  the  top 
when  done. 

Pudding  sauce. 

New -College  Puddings 

Grate  the  crumbs  of  two  penny  loaves,  shred  suet  eight 
ounces,  and  mix  with  eight  ounces  of  currants,  one  of  citron 
mixed  fine,  one  of  orange,  and  a  handful  of  sugar,  half  a  nut- 
meg, three  eggs  beaten,  yolk  and  white  separately.  Mix,  and 
make  into  the  size  and  shape  of  a  goose  egg.  Put  half  a 
pound  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan  ;  and  when  melted,  and  quite 
hot,  stew  them  gently  in  it  over  a  stove.    Turn  them  two  or 

three  times  until  of  a  fine  light  brown.  Mix  a  glass  of  brandy 
with  the  batter. 

Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 


\ 


46- 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Oxford  Dumplings 

Of  grated  bread  two  purices,  currants,  and  shred  suet 
four  ounces  each,  two  large  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  great  deal  of 
grated  lemon-peel,  a  bit  of  sugar,  and  a  little  pimento  in  fine 
powder.  Mix  with  two  eggs  and  a  little  milk  into  five  dump- 
lings, and  fry  of  a  fine  yellow  brown. 

Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Brown  Bread  Pudding  » 

Half  a  pound  of  stale  brown  bread  grated,  half  a  pound 
of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  shred  suet,  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 
Mix  with  four  eggs,  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  and  two  spoonfuls 
-of  cream.    Boil,  in  a  cloth  or  basin  that  exactly  holdsjt,  three 
or  four  hours. 

Boiled  Bread  Pudding 

Grate  white  bread,  pour  boiling  milk  over  it  and  cover 

•close.    When  soaked  an  hour  or  two,  beat  it  fine,  and  mix 

..."  ■  v 

with  it  two  or  three  eggs  well  beaten 

Put  it  into  a  basin  that  'will  just  hold  it ;  tie  a  floured 
cloth  over  it,  and  put  it  into  boiling  water.  Send  it  up  'with 
melted  butter  poured  over. 

It  may  be  eaten  with  salt  or  sugar. 

Another,  Richer  Bread  Pudding 

On  half  a  pint  of  crumbs  of  bread,  pour  half  a  pint  of  - 
scalding  milk  ;  cover  an  hour.  Beat  up  four  e£gs,  and  when 
strained,  add  to  the  bieacT,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  an 
ounce  of  butter,' two  ounces  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  currants, 
an  ounce  of  almonds  beaten  with  orange  flower  water,  half  an 
ounce  of  orange,  half  an  ounce  of  lemon,  half  an  ounce  of 
citron.  Butter  a  basin  that  will  exactly  hold  it  ;  flour  the 
cloth,  and  tie  tight  over,  and  boil  one  hour. 

Batter  Pudding 

Rub  three  spoonfuls  of  fine  flour  extremely  smooth  into 
a  pint  of  milk  ;  simmer  till  it  thickens  ;  stir  in  two  ounces  of 


I 

7ke  Southern  Cookbook  47 

butter :  set  it  to  cool ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Flour  a  cloth  that  has  been  wet,  or  butter  a  basin,  and  put 
the  batter  into  it ;  tie  it  tight,  and  plunge' it  into  the  boiling 
water,  the  bottom  upwards.  Boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  and 
serve  with  plain  butter.  If  approved  a  little  ginger,  nutmeg, 
and  lemon-peel  may  be  added,  and  sweet  sauce. 

Batter  Pudding  With  Meat 

Make  a  batter  with  flour,  milk,  and  eggs  ;  pour  a  little 
into  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  :  then  put  seasoned  meat 
of  any  kind  into  it,  and  a  little  shred  onion ;  pcur  the  remain- 
der of  the  batter  over,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Some  like  a  loin  of  mutton  baked  in  batter,  being  first 
clearqd  of  most  of  the  fat.  1 

Rice  Small  Puddings 

Wash  two  large  spoonfuls  of  rice,  and  simmer  it  with 
half  a  pint  of  milk  till  thick,  'then  put  with  it  the  size  of  an 
egg  of  butter,  and  nearly  a  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and 
give  it  ®ne  boil.  When  cool,  mix  four  yolks  and  two  whites 
of  eggs  well  beaten  ;  sweeten  to  taste,  add  nutmeg,  lemon-peel 
grated  fine,  and  a  little  cinnamon  powdered. 

Butter  litfle  cups,  and  fill' three  parts  full,  and  putting  at 
the  bottom  some  orange  or  citron.  Bake  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  the  moment  before  to  be  eaten, 
with  sweet  sauce  in  the  dish,  or  a  boat. 

Plain  Rice  Pudding 

Wash  and  pick  some  rice ;  throw  among  it  some  pimento 
finely  pounded,  but  not  much  ;  tie  the  rice  in  a  cloth,  and 
leave  plenty  of -room  for  it  to  swell.  Boil  it  in  a  quantity  of 
water  for  an  hour  or  two.  When  done,  eat  it  with  butter  and 
sugar,  or  milk.    Put  lemon-peel  if  you  please. 

It  is  very  good  without  spice,  and  eaten  with  salt  and 
butter. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Rice  Pudding  With  Fruit 

Swell  the  rice  with  a  very  little  milk  over  the  fire  ;  then 
mix  fruit  of  any  kmd  with  it,  (currants  ;  gooseberries  scalded; 
pared  and  quartered  apples ;  raisins,  or  black  currants  :)  with 
one  egg  into  the  rice,  to  bind  it.    Boil  it  well,  and  serve  with 

sugar. 

Baked   Rice  Pudding 

Swell  rice  as  above  ;  then  add  some  more  milk,  an  egg, 
sugar,  allspice  and  lemon-peel.    Bake  in  a  deep  dish. 

Another,  for  the  Family 

Put  into  a  very  deep  pan  half  a  pound  of  rice,  washed 
and  picked,  two  ounces  of  butter,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  few- 
allspices  pounded,  and  two  quarts  of  milk.  Less  butter  will 
do.  or  some  suet.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Note — Eggs  in  rice  pudding,  if  made  of  whole  rice,  causes 
the  milk  to  turn  to  whey  if  not  boiled  first,  and  then  mixed 
cool. 

Suet  Puddings 

Shred  a  pound  of  suet  ;  mix  with  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  flour,  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  little  salt,  and  as  little 
milk  as  will  make  it.  Boil  five  hours.  It  eats  well  next  day, 
cut  in  slices  and  broiled. 

A  George  Pudding 

Boil  verv  tender  a  handful  of  whole  rice  in  a  small  quantity 
of  milk,  with  a  large  piece  of  lemon-peel.  Let  it  drain;  then 
mix  with  it  a  dozen  of  good  sized  apples,  boiled  to  pulp,  and  as 
dry  as  possible.  Add  a  glass  of  white  wine,  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs,  and  two  ounces  of  orange  and  citron  cut  thin;  make  it 
pretty  sweet.  Line  a  mould  or  basin  with  a  very  good  paste: 
beat  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  to  a  very  strong  froth,  and  mix 
with  the  other  ingredients:  fill  the  mould,  and  bake  it  of  a  fine 
brown  color.  Serve  it  with  the  bottom  upward,  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce:  two  glasses  of  wine,  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  the 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


49 


yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  bit  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut,  sim- 
mer without  boiling,  and  pour  to  and  from  the  saucepan,  till 
of  a  proper  thickness,  and  put  it  in  the  dish. 

Rice  Piecrust 

Clean,  and  put  some  rice,  with  an  onion  and  a  little  water 
and  milk  only,  into  a  saucepan,  and  simmer  till  it  swells.  Put 
into  a  dish,  and  cover  it  with  the  rice. 

Rabbits  fricasseed,  and  covered  thus,  are  very  good. 

Potato  Pudding  without  Meat 

Boil  them  till  fit  co  mash:  rub  through  a  colander  and 
make  a  thick  batter,  with  milk  and  two  eggs.  Lay  some  sea- 
soned steaks  in  a  dish,  then  some  batter;  and  over  the  last 
layer  pour  the  remainder  of  the  batter.    Bake  a  fine  brown: 

Steak,  or  Kidney  Pudding 

If  kidney,  split,  and  soak  it,  and  season  that  or  the  meat. 
Make  a  paste  of  suet,  flour,  and  milk:  roll  it,  and  line  a  basin 
with  some:  put  the  kidney  or  steaks  in,  cover  with  paste,  and 
pinch  around  the  edge.  Cover  with  a  cloth,  and  boil  a  con- 
siderable time. 

Suet  Dumplings 

Make  as  suet  pudding,  and  drop  into  boiling  water,  or  in- 
to the  boiling  of  beef;  or  you  may  boil  in  a  cloth. 

Apple,  Currant,  or  Damson  Dumplings,  or  Pudding 

Make  as  above,  and  line  a  basin  with  the  paste  tolerably 
thin:  fill  with  the  fruit,  and  cover  it:  tie  a  cloth  over  tight,  and 
boil  till  the  fruit  shall  be  done  enough. 

s»  Snowball 

Swell  rice  in  milk;  strain  it  off,  and  having  pared  and 
cored  apples,  put  the  rice  around  them,  tying  each  up  in  a 
cloth.  Put  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  a  clove,  or  cinnamon  in  each, 
and  boil  them  well. 

(4) 


50 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Common  Plum  Pudding 

The  same  proportions  of  flour  and  suet  as  in  Hunters'  Pud- 
ding, and  half  the  quantity  of  fruit,  with  spice,  lemon,  a  glass 
of  wine,  or  not,  and  one  egg  and  milk;  will  make  an  excellent 
pudding,  if  long  boiled. 

Hunter's  Pudding 

Mix,  of  suet,  flour,  currants,  and  raisins  stoned  and  a  little 
cut,  a  pound  of  each,  the  rind  of  lemon,  shred  as  fine  as  possible, 
six  Jamaica  peppers  in  fine  powder,  four  eggs,  a  glass  of  bran- 
dy, a  little  salt,  and  as  little  milk  as  will  mske  it  of  proper  con- 
sistency. Boil  it  in  a  floured  cloth,  or  a  melon  mould,  eight  or 
nine  hours.  Serve  with  sweet  sauce;  ard  sometimes  a  spoon- 
ful of  peach-water. 

This  pudding  will  keep,  after  it  is  boiled,  six  months,  if 
kept  tied  up  in  the  same  cloth,  and  hung  up,  folded  in  a  sheet 
of  cap  paper  to  preserve  it  from  dust,  being  first  cold.  When 
to  be  used,  it  must  boil  a  full  hour. 

Custard  Pudding 

Mix  by  degrees  a  pint  of  good  milk  with  a  large  spoonful 
of  flour,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  some  orange-flower  water,  and 
a  little  pounded  cinnamon.  Butter  a  basin  that  will  exactly 
hold  it;  pour  the  batter  in,  and  tie  a  floured  cloth  over  it.-  Put 
it  in  boiling  water,  and  turn  it  about  a  few  minutes  to  prevent 
the  egg  going  to  one  side.    Half  an  hour  will  boil  it. 

Put  currant  jelly  on  it,  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

A  Rich  Rice  Pudding 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  water,  with  a  little  bit  of  salt, 
till  quite  tender:  drain  it  dry.  Mix  it  with  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  four  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  with  two  ounces  of 
fresh  butter  melted  in  the  latter,  four  ounces  of  beef  suet,  or 
marrow,  or  veal  suet  taken  from  a  fillet  of  veal,  finely  shred, 
three  quarters  of  a  poind  of  currants,  two  spoonfuls  ot  brandy, 


The  Souther j i  Cookbook 


5i 


one  of  peach-water,  or  ratafia,  nutmeg,  and  grated  lemon-peel. 
When  well,  mixed,  put  a  paste  round  the  edge,  and  fill  the 
dish;  slices  ot  candied  orange,  lemon,  and  citron,  if  approved. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Millet  Pudding 

Wash  three  spoonfuls  of  the  seed;  put  it  into  the  dish, 
with  a  crust  around  the  edges,  pour  over  it  as  much  new  milk 
as  shall  nearly  fill  the  dish,  two  ounces  of  butter  warmed 
with  it,  sugar,  shred  lemon,  and  a  little  scrape  of  ginger  and 
nutmeg.  As  you  put  it  in  the  oven,  stir  in  two  eggs  beaten; 
and  a  spoonful  of  shred  suet. 

An  Excellent  Plain  Potato  Pudding 

Take  eight  ounces  of  boiled  potatoes,  two  ounces  of  butter 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  cream,  one  spoonful  of  white  wine,  a  morsel  of  salt, 
the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon.  Beat  all  to  a  froth:  sugar  to 
taste.  A  crust  or  not,  as  you  like.  Bake  it.  If  wanted  richer, 
put  three  ounces  more  butter,  sweetmeats  and  almonds,  and 
another  egg. 

Carrot  Pudding 

Beat  a  large  carrot  tender,  bruise  it  well,  and  mix  with  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  biscuit  beaten  to  powder,  or  four  Naples 
biscuit,  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  a  pint  of  scalded 
cream,  some  rose,  or  orange-flower  water,  a  little  ratafia,  nut- 
meg, and  sugar.  If  you  have  no  scalded  cream,  raw  will  do,  if 
very  thick.  Put  a  little  rim  of  paste  around  the  dish,  and  bake 
it.    Pat  orange,  lemon  or  citron,  cut  in  good  sized  bits. 

An  Excellent  Apricot  Pudding 

Have  twelve  large  apricots:  give  them  a  scald  till  they  are 
soft.  Meantime  pour  on  the  grated  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf, 
and  a  pint  of  boiling  cream:  when  half  cold,  four  ounces  of 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  four  beaten  eggs,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine 
Pound  the  apricots  in  a  mortar,  with  some  or  all  of  the  kernels: 
then  mix  the  fruit  and  other  ingredients  together:  put  a  paste 
around  the  dish,  and  bake  the  pudding  half  an  hour. 


52 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Baked  Gooseberry  Pudding 

Stew  gooseberries  in  a  jar  over  a  hot  hearth,  or  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  water,  till  they  will  pulp.  Take  a  pint  of  the  juice 
pressed  through  a  sieve,  and  beat  it  with  three  yolks  and 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  and  strained,  and  one  ounce  and  a  half 
of  butter:  sweeten  it  well,  and  put  a  crust  around  the  dish.  A 
few  crumbs  of  roll  should  be  mixed  with  the  above  to  give  a 
little  consistency,  or  four  ounces  of  Naples  biscuit. 

A  Green  Bean  Pudding 

Boil  and  blanch  old  beans,  beat  them  in  a  mortar  with  a 
very  little  pepper  and  salt,  some  cream,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 
A  little  spinach  juice  will  give  a  finer  color,  but  it  is  as  good 
without.  Boil  it  an  hour  in  a  basin  that  will  just  hold  it;  and 
pour  parsley  and  butter  over. 

Serve  bacon  to  eat  with  it. 

Baked  Almond  Pudding 

Beat  five  ounces  of  almonds,  four  or  five  bitter  ditto,  with 
a  little  wine,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  peel  of  two  lemons  grated,  six 
ounces  of  butter,  nearly  a  quart  of  cream,  juice  of  one  lemon 
When  well  mixed,  bake  it  half  an  hour,  with  a  paste  around 
the  dish. 

Shelford  Pudding 

Mix  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants,  or  raisins,  one 
pound  of  suet,  one  pound  of  flour,  six  eggs,  a  little  good  milk, 
some  lemon-peel,  and  a  little  salt.    Boil  it  in  a  melon  shape  six 

hours. 

Brandy'  Pudding 

Line  a  mould  with  jar  raisins  stoned,  or  dried  cherries, 
then  with  thin  slices  of  French  roll;  next  to  which  put  ratafias, 
or  macaroons,  then  the  fruit,  roll,  and  cakes  in  succession,  un- 
til the  mould  be  full;  sprinkling  in  at  times  two  glasses  of 


The  Sou t lie r n  Cookbook 


53 


brandy.  Beat  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites:  put  to  them  a  pint 
of  milk  or  cream,  lightly  sweetened,  with  half  a  nutmeg,  and 
the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  finely  grated.  Let  the  liquid  sink  into 
the  solid  part;  then  flour  a  cloth,  tie  it  tight  over,  and  boil  one 
hour ;  keep  the  mould  the  right  side  up. 
Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

Buttermilk  Pudding 

Warm  three  quarts  of  new  milk,  and  turn  it  with  a  quart 
of  buttermilk:  when  ready,  drain  the  curd  through  a  strainer: 
when  dry,  pound  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  near  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  a  lemon  boiled  tender,  the  crumbs  of  a  roll  grated,  a 
nutmeg  grated,  six  bitter  almonds,  four  ounces  of  warm  butter, 
a  teacupful  of  good  cream,  the  yolks  of  five,  and  whites  of 
three  eggs,  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  and  one  of  brandy. 

When  well  incorporated,  bake  in  small  cups  or  bowls  well 
buttered. 

Serve  as  quick  as  possible  wth  pudding  sauce. 

Curd  Puddings,  or  Puffs 

Turn  two  quarts  of  milk  to  a  curd  ;  press  the  whey  from 
it ;  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  four  ounces  of  butter,  the 
crums  of  a  penny  loaf,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  half  a  nutmeg, 
a  small  quantity  of  sugar,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  white  wine. 
Butter  little  cups,  or  small  pattypans,  and  fill  them  three 
parts.  Orange-flower  water  is  an  improvement.  Bake  them 
with  care.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce  in  a  boat. 

Boiled  Curd  Puddings 

Rub  the  curd  of  two  gallons  of  milk,  when  drained, 
through  a  sieve.  Mix  it  with  six  eggs,  a  little  cream,  two 
spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water,  half  a  nutmeg,  of  flour  and 
crumbs  of  bread  each  three  spoonfuls,  currants  and  raisins 
half  a  pound  of  each.  Boil  an  hour  in  a  thick  well  floured 
cloth. 


54 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Small  Almond  Puddings 

Pound  eight  ounces  of  almonds,  and  a  few  bitter,  with  a 
spoonful  of  water ;  mix  with  four  ounces  of  butter  warmed, 
four  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  two  spoon- 
fuls of  cream,  and  one  of  brandy  ;  mix  well,  and  bake  in  little 
cups  buttered.    Serve  with  pudding  saftce. . 

Excellent  Light  Puffs 

Mix  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel, 
some  nutmeg,  half  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  a  little  loaf  sugar ; 
then  fry  it  enough  but  not  brown  :  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with 
five  eggs,  whites  and  yolks ;  put  a  quantity  of  lard  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  when  quite  hot,  drop  a  dessert  spoonful  of  batter  at 
a  time;  turn  as  they  brown.  They  will  be  large.  Serve 
immediately.    Sweet  sauce. 

Pippin  Pudding 

Coddle  six  pippins  in  vine  leaves  covered  with  water,  but 
very  gently,  that  the  inside  be  done  without  breaking  the 
skins.  When  soft,  take  off  the  skins,  and  with  a  teaspoon 
take  the  pulp  from  the  core.  Press  it  through  a  colander ; 
add  to  it  two  spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water,  three  eggs 
beaten  in  a  pint  of  scalded  cream,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Lay  a  thin  puff  paste  at  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  dish  ; 
shred  some  very  thin  lemon-peel  as  fine  as  possible,  and  put 
into  the  dish  ;  as  likewise  some  orange  and  citron  in  small 
slices. 

Yorkshire  Pudding 

Mix  five  spoonfuls  of  flour,  with  a  quart  of  milk,  and 
three  eggs  well  beaten.  Butter  the  pan.  When  brown  by 
baking  under  the  meat,  turn  the  other  side  upwards,  and 
brown  that.  It  should  be  made  in  a  square  pan,  and  cut  into 
slices  to  come  to  table.  Set  it  over  a  chafing  dish  at  first, 
and  stir  it  some  minutes. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


55 


A  Quick  Made  Pudding 

Flour  and  suet  half  a  pound  each,  four  eggs,  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  little  mace  and  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  raisins,  ditto  of  currants  :  mix  well,  and  boil  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  with  the  cover  of  the  pot  on,  or  it  will 
require  longer. 

Yeast  or  Suffolk  Dumplings 

Make  a  very  light  dough  with  yeast,  as  for  bread,  but 
with  milk  instead  of  water,  and  put  salt.  Let  it  rise  an  hour 
before  the  fire. 

Twenty  minutes  before  yon  are  to  serve,  have  ready  a 
large  stewpan  of  boiling  water,  make  the  dough  into  balls, 
the  size  of  a  small  apple,  throw  them  in,  and  boil  twenty 
minutes.    If  you  doubt  when  done  enough,  stick  a  clean  fork 
into  one,  and  if  it  comes  out  clear,  it  is  done. 

The  way  to  eat  them  is  to  tear  them  apart  on  the  top 
with  two  forks,  for  they  become  heavy  by  their  own  steam. 
Eat  immediately  with  meat,  or  sugar  and  butter,  or  salt. 

Russian  Seed,  or  Ground  Rice  Pudding 

Boil  a  large  spoonful  heaped  of  either  a  pint  of  new  milk, 
with  lemon-peel  and  cinnamon.  When  cold  add  sugar,  nut- 
meg, and  two  eggs,  well  beaten.  Bake  with  crust  around  the 
dish. 

Observations  on  Making  Pudding 

The  outside  of  a  boiled  pudding  often  tastes  disagreeable, 
which  arises  from  the  cloth  not  being  nicely  washed,  and 
kept  in  a  dry  place.  It  should  be  dipped  in  boiling  water, 
squeezed  dry,  and  floured  when  it  is  to  be  used. 

If  bread,  it  should  be  tied  loose  ;  if  batter,  tight  over. 

The  water  should  boil  quick  when  the  pudding  is  put  in  ; 
and  it  should  be  moved  about  for  a  minute,  lest  the  ingredi- 
ents should  not  mix. 


56 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Butter  pudding  should  be  strained  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  when  all  is  mixed,    In  others,  the  eggs  separately. 

The  pans  and  basins  must  be  always  buttered. 

A  pan  of  cold  water  should  be  ready,  and  the  pudding 
dipped  in  as  soon  as  it  comes  out  of  the  pot,  and  then  it  will 
not  adhere  to  the  cloth. 


v 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


57 


SWEET  DISHES 

Lemon  Custards 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  till  they  are  as  white  as 
milk  ;  then  put  to-  them  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  the  rinds  of 
two  lemons  grated,  and  the  juice  sweetened  to  your  taste. 
Stir  it  on  the  fire  till  thick  enough,  then  add  a  large  glass  of 
rich  wine,  and  half  a  glass  of  brandy  ;  give  the  whole  one 
scald,  and  put  it  in  cups,  to  be  eaten  cold. 

Lent  Potatoes 

Beat  three  or  four  ounces  of  almonds,  and  three  or  four 
bitter,  when  blanched,  putting  a  little  orange-flower  water  to 
prevent  oiling :  add  eight  ounces  of  butter,  four  eggs  well 
beaten  and  strained,  half  a  glass  of  raisin  wine,  sugar  to  your 
taste.  Beat  as  well  till  quite  smooth  and  grate  in  three 
savoy  biscuits.  Make  balls  of  the  above,  with  a  little  flour, 
the  size  of  a  chestnut ;  throw  them  into  a  stewpan  of  boiling 
lard  and  boil  them  of  a  beautiful  yellow  brown.  Drain  them 
on  a  sieve. 

Serve  sweet  sauce  in  a  boat,  to  eat  with  them. 

Rice  Flummery- 
Boil  with  a  pint  of  new  milk,  and  a  bit  of  lemon-peel, 
and  cinnamon  :  mix  with  a  little  cold  milk,  as  much  rice  flour, 
as  will  make  the  whole  of  a  good  consistence  :  sweeten,  and 
add  a  spoonful  of  peach-water,  or  a  bitter  almond  beaten. 
Boil  it,  observing  it  does  not  burn.  Pour  it  into  a  shape  or 
pint  basin,  taking  out  the  spice.  When  cold,  turn  the  flum- 
mery in  a  dish,  and  serve  with  cream,  milk,  or  custard  around; 
or  put  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  into  half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a 
glass  of  raisin  wine,  a  little  sugar,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon. 

Curds  and  Cream 

Turn  to  curd  three  or  four  pints  of  milk  with  rennet  ; 
break  it,  and  let  the  whey  run  out,  then  pour  it  into  a  basin 
and  when  to  be  served,  put  it  on  a  dish  with  some  cream,  or 
fine  milk,  either  plain  or  sweetened. 


The  Soutftem  Cookbook 


Another  Way 

To  four  quarts  of  new  milk  warmed,  put  from  a  pint  to  a 
quart  buttermilk  strained,  according  to  its  sourness  ;  keep  the 
pan  covered  until  the  curd  be  of  a  firmness  to  cut  three  or 
four  times  across  with  a  saucer,  as  the  whey  leaves  it :  put  it 
into  a  shape,  and  fill  up  until  it  be  solid  enough  to  take  the 
form.  Serve  with  cream  plain,  or  mixed  with  sugar,  wine, 
and  lemon. 

London  Syllabub 

Put  a  pint  of  port  wine  into  a  bow],  nutmeg  grated,  and  a 
good  deal  of  sugar,  then  milk,  into  it  nearly  two  quarts  of 
milk,  frothed  up.  If  the  wine  be  not  rather  sharp,  it  will 
require  more  for  this  quantity  of  milk. 

Staffordshire  Syllabub 

Put  a  pint  of  cider,  and  a  glass  of  brandy,  sugar,  and 
nutmeg  into  a  bowl,  and  milk  into  it ;  or  pour  warm  milk 
from  a  large  teapot  some  height  into  it. 

Devonshire  Junket 

Put  warm  milk  into  a  bowi ;  turn  it  with  rennet  ;  then 
put  some  scalded  cream,  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  the  top, 
without  breaking  the  curd. 

A  very  fine  Somersetshire  Syllabub 

In  a  large  China  bowl  put  a  pint  of  port,  and  a  pint  of 
sherrv,  or  other  white  wine,  sugar  to  taste.  Milk  the  bowl 
full.  In  twenty  minutes  cover  it  pretty  high  with  clouted 
cream  :  grate  over  it  nutmeg :  put  pounded  cinnamon  and 
nonpareil  comfits. 

Sack  Cream 

Boil  a  pint  of  raw  cream,  the  volk  of  an  egg  well  beaten, 
two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  white  wine,  sugar,  lemon-peel ;  stir 
it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it  be  as  thick  as  rich  cream ;  put  it  in 
a  dish,  and  serve  it  cold,  garnished  with  rusks  or  sippets  of 
toasted  bread. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


59 


A  Froth  to  set  on   Cream,  Custards,   or   Trifles,  which 
Looks  and   Eats  Well 

Sweeten  half  a  pound  of  the  pulp  of  damsons,  or  any 
other  sort  of  scalded  fruit  :  put  it  to  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
beaten,  and  beat  the  pulp  with  them,  until  it  will  stand  as 
high  as  you  choose  ;  and  being  put  on  the  cream,  etc.,  with  a 
spoon,  it  will  take  any  form.  It  should  be  rough  to  imitate  a 
rock. 

Floating  Island 

Mix  three  half  pints  of  thin  cream  with  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  raisin  wine,  a  little  lemon  juice,  orange-flower  water, 
and  sugar  ;  and  put  into  a  dish  for  the  middle  of  the  table, 
and  put  on  the  cream  a  froth  like  the  above,  which  may  be 
made  of  raspberry  or  currant  jelly. 

Another  Way 

Scald  a  codlin  before  it  be  ripe,  or  any  sharp  apple,  and 
pulp  it  through  a  sieve.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with 
sugar,  and  a  spoonful  of  orange-water  ;  mix  in  by  degrees 
the  pulp,  and  beat  all  together  until  you  have  a  large  quantity 
of  froth.  Serve  it  on  a  raspberry  cream  ;  or  you  may  color  the 
froth  with  beet-root,  raspberry,  or  currant  jelly,  and  set  it  on 
a  white  cream,  having  given  it  the  flavor  of  lemon,  sugar,  and 
wine  as  above  ;%or,  put  the  froth  on  a  custard. 

Everlasting,  or  Solid  Syllabubs 

Mix  a  quart  of  thick  raw  cream,  one  pound  of  refined 
sugar,  a  pint  of  white,  and  half  a  pint  of  sweet  wine  in  a  deep 
pan  :  put  to  it  the  grated  peel  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons. 
Beat,  or  whisk  it  one  way  half  an  hour,  then  put  it  into  glasses. 
It  will  keep  good,  in  a  cool  place,  ten  days. 

Yellow  Lemon  Cream,  without  Cream 

Pare  four  lemons  very  thin  into  twelve  large  spoonfuls  of 
water,  and  squeeze  the  juice  on  seven  ounces  of  finely  pounded 
sugar :  beat  the  yolks  of  nine  eggs  well  ;  add  the  peels  and 


6o 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


juice  beaten  together  for  some  time  ;  then  strain  it  through  a 
flannel  into  a  silver  or  very  nice  block-tin  saucepan  ;  set  it 
over  a  gentle  fire,  and  stir  it  one  way  till  pretty  thick,  and 
scalding  hot,  but  not  boiling,  or  it  will  curdle.  Pcuritinto 
jelly  glasses.  A  few  lumps  of  sugar  should  be  rubbed  hard 
on  the  lemons'  peel  before  they  are  pared,  or  after,  as  the  peel 
will  be  so  thin  as  not  to  take  all  the  essence,  and  the  sugar 
will  attract  it,  and  give  a  better  color  and  flavor. 

White  Lemon  Cream 

Is  made  the  same  as  the  above  ;  only  put  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  in  lieu  of  the  yolks,  whisking  it  extremely  well  to  froth. 

Lemon  Cream 

Take  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  put  to  it  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  four  ounces  of  fine  sugar,  and  the  thin  rind 
of  a  lemon,  boil  it  up,  then  stir  it  till  almost  cold.  Put  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  in  a  dish  or  bowl,  and  pour  the  cream  upon 
it,  stirring  it  till  quite  cold. 

An  Excellent  Cream 

Whip  up  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  rich  cream  to  a  strong 
froth,  with  some  finely  scraped  lemon-peel,  a  squeeze  of  the 
juice,  half  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  and  sugar  to  make  it  pleasant 
but  not  sweet.  Lay  it  on  a  sieve  or  in  a  form,  and  next  day 
put  it  on  a  dish,  and  ornament  it  with  very  light  puff  paste 
biscuits,  made  in  tin  shapes  the  length  of  a  finger,  and  about 
two  thick,  over  which  sugar  may  be  strewed  or  a  light  glaze 
with  isinglass.    Or  you  may  use  macaroons. 

Blancmange  or  Blamage 

Boil  two  ounces  of  isinglass  in  three  half  pints  of  water 
half  an  hour  ;  strain  it  to  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream  ;  sweeten 
it,  and  add  some  peach  water  or  a  few  bitter  almonds  ;  let  it 
boil  once  up  and  put  it  into  what  forms  you  please.  If  not 
to  be  very  stiff,  a  little  less  isinglass  will  do.  Observe  to  let 
the  blamage  settle  before  you  turn  it  out  of  the  forms,  or 
the  blacks  will  remain  at  the  bottom  of  them,  and  be  on  top 
of  the  blamage  when  taken  out  of  the  moulds. 


The  Southern  Cookbook  61 


Dutch  Flummery 

Boil  two  ounces  of  isinglass  in  three  half  pints  of  water 
very  gently  half  an  hour  :  add  a  pint  of  white  wine,  the  juice  of 
three  and  the  thin  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  rub  a  few  lumps 
of  sugar  on  another  lemon  to  obtain  the  essence ;  and  with 
them  add  as  much  more  sugar  as  shall  make  it  sweet  enough. 
Having  beaten  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  give  them  and  the 
above,  when  mixed,  one  scald,  stir  all  the  time,  and  pour  it 
into  a  basin.  Stir  it  till  half  cold,  and  then  let  it  settle,  and 
put  it  into  a  melon  shape. 

Calf  s  Feet  Jelly 

Boil  two  feet  in  five  pints  of  water  till  the  feet  are  broken, 
and  the  water  half  wasted  ;  strain  it,  and  when  cold,  take  off 
the  fat,  and  remove  the  jelly  from  the  sediment  ;  then  put  it 
into  a  saucepan,  with  sugar,  raisin  wine,  lemon-juice  to  your 
taste,  and  some  lemon-peel.  When  the  flavor  is  rich,  put  to 
it  the  whites  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  and  their  shells  broken. 
Set  the  saucepan  on  the  fire,,  but  do  not  stir  the  jelly  after  it 
begins  to  warm.  Let  it  boil  twenty  minutes  after  it  rises  to 
a  head,  then  pour  it  through  a  fannel  jelly-bag  ;  first  dipping 
the  bag  in  hot  water  to  prevent  waste,  and  squeezing  it  quite 
dry.  Run  the  jelly  through  and  through  until  clear  ;  then 
put  it  into  glasses  or  forms. 

Observe,  that  the  feet  for  all  jellies  should  be  only  scalded 
to  take  off  the  hair  ;  not  bought  boiled,  which  is  the  usual 
way  :  but  the  following  mode  will  greatly  facilitate  the  clearing 
of  the  jelly :  when  the  mixture  has  boiled  twenty  minutes, 
throw  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water  ;  let  it  boil  five  minutes 
longer ;  then  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire,  cover  it  close,  and 
keep  it  half  an  hour  :  after  which,  it  will  be  so  clear  as  to 
need  only  once  running  through  the  bag,  and  much  waste  will 
be  saved. 


62 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Observe,  feet  for  all  jellies  are  boiled  so  long  by  the  peo- 
ple who  sell  them,  that  the  nutritions  juices  are  lessened ; 
they  should  be  only  scalded  to  take  off  the  hairs.  The  liquor 
will  require  greater  care  in  removing  the  fat ;  but  the  jelly 
will  be  far  stronger,  and,  of  course,  allow  more  water. 

Another  Sort 

Boil  four  quarts  of  water  with  calf's  feet  that  have  been 
only  scalded,  till  half  wasted  ;  take  the  jelly  from  the  fat  and 
sediment,  mix  with  it  the  juice  of  an  orange,  and  twelve 
lemons,  the  peel  of  three,  the  whites  and  shells  of  twelve  eggs; 
brown  sugar  to  taste,  nearly  a  pint  of  raisin  wine,  one  ounce 
of  corriander-seed,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  a  bit  of 
cinnamon,  and  six  cloves,  all  bruised,  after  having  previously 
mixed  them  cold.  The  jelly  should  boil  fifteen  minutes  with- 
out stirring  ;  then  clear  it  through  a  flannel  bag.  While  run- 
ning take  a  little  jelly,  and  mix  with  a  teacupful  of  water  in 
which  a  bit  of  beet-root  has  been  boiled,  and  run  it  through 
the  bag  when  all  the  rest  is  run  out  ;  and  this  is  to  garnish 
the  other  jelly,  being  cooled  on  a  plate  ;  but  this  is  matter  of 
choice. 

Orange  Jelly 

Grate  the  rind  of  two  Seville  and  two  China  oranges,  and 
two  lemons;  squeeze  the  juice  of  three  of  each,  and  strain, 
and  add  the  juice  to  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  and  boil  till  it  almost  candies. 
Have  ready  *a  quart  of  isinglass  jelly  made  with  two  ounces, 
put  it  to  the  syrup,  and  boil  it  once  up  ;  strain  off  the  jelly, 
and  let  it  stand  to  settle  as  above  before  it  is  put  into  the 
mould. 

Hartshorn  Jelly 

Simmer  eight  ounces  of  hartshorn  shavings  with  two 
quarts  of  water  to  one  ;  strain  it,  and  boil  it  with  the  rinds  of 
four  China  oranges  and  two  lemons  pared  .thin  ;  when  cooh 


The  Sou  I  hen  i  Cookbovk 


63 


add  the  juice  of  both,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  whites  of 
six  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  ;  let  the  jelly  have  three  or  four 
boils  without  stirring,  and  strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag. 

Imperial  Cream 

Boil  a  quart  of  cream  with  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon,  then 
stir  it  until  nearly  cold  ;  have  ready  in  a  dish  or  bowl  that  you 
are  to  serve  in,  the  juice  of  three  lemons  strained  with  as 
much  sugar  as  will  sweeten  the  cream  ;  which  pour  into  the 
dish  from  a  large  teapot,  holding  it  high  and  moving  it  about 
to  mix  the  juice.  It  should  be  made  at  least  six  hours  before 
it  is  served. 

A  Cream 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and 
two  bay-leaves,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  a  few  almonds  beaten  to  a 
paste,  with  a  drop  of  water,  a  little  sugar,  orange-flower  water, 
and  a  teapoonful  of  flour,  having  been  rubbed  down  with  the 
above.  When  cold,  put  a  little  lemon-juice  to  the  cream,  and 
serve  it  in  cups  or  lemonade  glasses. 

Snow  Cream 

Put  to  a  quart  of  cream  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  four  spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine,  sugar  to  your  taste,  and 
a  bit  of  lemon-peel  :  whip  it  to  a  froth,  remove  the  peel,  and 
serve  in  a  dish. 

Cheap  and  Excellent  Custards 

Boil  three  pints  of  new  milk,  with  a  bit  of  lemon-peel, 
a  bit  of  cinnamon,  two  or  three  bay  leaves,  and  sweeten  it. 
Meanwhile  smooth  a  large  spoonful  of  rice  flour  into  a  cup 
of  cold  milk,  and  mix  with  it  two  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten 
Take  a  basin  of  the  boiling  milk,  and  mix  with  the  cold,  and 
then  pour  that  to  the  boiling;  stirring  it  oneway,  till  it  be- 
gins to  thicken,  and  is  just  going  to  boil  up;  then  pour  it 
into  a  pan,  stir  it  sometimes,  add  a  large  spoonful  of  peach 
water,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  brandy,  or  a  little  ratafia. 


64 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Richer  Custard 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  with  lemqn-r^ekand  cinnamon  ;  mix  a 
pint  of  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten.  When 
the  milk  tastes  of  the  seasoning,  sweeten  it  enough  for  the 
whole,  pour  it  into  the  cream,  stirring  well,  then  give  the 
custard  a  simmer  till  of  a  proper  thickness.  Do  not  let  it 
boil.    Stir  the  whole  time  one  way  :  season  as  above. 

Almond  Cream 

Beat  four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  and  a  few  bitter,  m 
a  mortar,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  water  to  prevent  oiling,  both 
having  been  blanched.  Put  the  paste  to  a  quart  of  cream, 
and  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons  sweetened  ;  beat  it  up  with 
a  whisk  to  a  froth,  which  take  off  on  the  shallow  part  of  the 
sieve.    Fill  glasses  with  some  of  the  liquor  and  the  froth. 

Brandy  Cream 

Boil  two  dozen  of  almond  blanches,  and  pounded  bitter 
almonds  in  a  little  milk.  When  cold,  add  it  to  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs  beaten  well  in  a  little  cream  ;  sweeten,  and  put  to  it 
two  glasses  of  best  brandy  ;  and  when  well  mixed,  pour  to  it 
a  quart  of  thin  cream.  Set  it  over  the  fire,  but-  do  not  let 
it  boil.  Stir  one  way  till  it  thickens,  then  pour  into  cups,  or 
low  glasses.  When  cold,  it  will  be  ready.  A  ratafia  drop 
may  be  put  in  each  ;  if  you  choose  it.  If  you  wish  to  keep  it, 
scald  the  cream  previously. 

A  Pretty  Supper  Dish 

Boil  a  teacupful  of  rice,  having  first  washed  it  in  milk, 
till  tender :  strain  off  the  milk,  lay  the  rice  in  little  heaps  on  a 
dish ;  strew  over  them  some  finely  powdered  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon, and  put  warm  wine  and  a  little  butter  into  the  dish. 

Wine  Roll 

Soak  a  penny  French  roll  in  raisin  wine  till  it  will  hold 
on  more  :  put  it  in  the  dish,  and  pour  around  it  a  custard,  or 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


65 


cream,  sugar,  and  lemon-juice.  Just  before  it  is  served, 
sprinkle  over  it  some  nonpareil  comfits  ;  or  stick  a  few 
blanched  and  slit  almonds  into  it. 

Sponge  biscuit  may  be  used  instead  of  the  roll. 

Rice  and  Sago  Milks 

Are  made  by  washing  the  seeds  nicely,  and  over  a  slow 
fire  simmering  with  milk  till  sufficiently  done.  The  foimer 
sort  requires  lemon,  spice  and  sugar:  the  latter  is  fine  with- 
out anything  to  flavor  it. 

An  Excellent  Trifle 

Lay  macaroons  and  ratafia  drops  over  the  bottom  of  your 
dish,  and  pour  in  as  much  raisin  wine  as  they  will  suck  up  ; 
which,  when  they  have  done  pour  on  them  cold  rich  custard, 
made  with  more  eggs  than  directed  in  the  foregoing  pages, 
and  some  rice  flour.  It  must  stand  two  or  three  inches  thick. 
On  that  put  a  layer  of  raspberry  jam,  and  cover  the  whole 
with  a  very  high  whip  made  the  day  before,  of  rich  cream, 
the  whites  of  two  well  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  lemon-peel,  and 
raisin  wine.  If  made  the  day  before  used,  it  has  quite  a 
different  taste,  and  is  solid  and  far  better. 

Burnt  Cream 

Boil  a  pint  of  cream  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  some 
lemon-peel ;  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  pour  it  very  slowly  into 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  stirring  till  half  cold  :  sweeten,  and 
take  out  the  spice,  etc.  Pour  it  into  the  dish  ;  when  cold, 
strew  white  pounded  sugar  over,  and  brown  it  with  a  sala- 
mander. 

Lemon  Honeycomb 

Sweeten  the  juice  of  a  lemon  to  your  taste,  and  put  it  in 
the  dish  that  you  serve  in.  Mix  the  white  of  an  egg  that  is 
well  beaten  with  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  and  a  little  sugar ; 
whisk  it,  and  as  the  froth  rises  put  it  on  the  lemon-juice. 

Do  it  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used, 

(5) 


66  The  Southern  Cookbook 

Coffee  Cream,  Much  Admired 

Boil  a  calf's  foot  in  water  till  it  wastes  to  a  pint  of  jelly  : 
Clear  it  of  sediment  and  fat.  Make  a  teacup  of  veiy  strong 
coffee  ;  clear  it  with  a  bit  of  isinglass  to  be  perfectly  bright ; 
pour  it  to  the  jelly,  and  add  a  pint  of  very  good  cream,  and  as 
much  fine  Lisbon  sugar  as  is  pleasant.  Give  one  boil  up,  and 
pour  into  the  dish.  It  should  jelly,  but  not  be  stiff.  Ob- 
serve that  your  coffee  is  fresh. 

Orange  Fool 

Mix  the  juice  of  three  Seville  oranges,  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  a  pint  of  cream,  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  and 
sweeten  to  your  taste.  Set  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
stir  till  it  becomes  as  thick  as  good  melted  butter,  but  it 
must  not  be  boiled  ;  then  pour  it  into  a  dish  for  eating  cold, 

Gooseberry  Fool 

Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar,  and  some  good  Lisbon 
sugar  with  them  ;  set  the  jar  on  a  stove,  or  in  a  saucepan  of 
water  over  the  fire  ;  if  the  former,  a  large  spoonful  of  water 
should  be  added  to  the  fruit.  When  it  is  done  enough  to 
pulp,  press  it  through  a  colander  ;  have  ready  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  new  milk,  and  a  teacup  of  raw  cream  boiled 
together ;  or  an  egg  instead  of  the  latter,  and  left  to  be  cold  ; 
then  sweeten  it  pretty  well  with  fine  Lisbon  sugar,  and  mix 
the  pulp  by  degrees  with  it. 

Apple  Fool 

Stew  apples  as  directed  for  gooseberries,  and  then  peel 
and  pulp  them.    Prepare  the  milk,  etc.,  and  mix  as  before. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


67 


CAKES 

Observations  on   Making  Cakes 

Currants  should  be  very  nicely  washed,  dried  in  a  cloth, 
and  then  set  before  the  fire.  If  damp,  they  will  make  cakes 
or  puddings  heavy.  Before  they  are  added,  a  dust  of  dry 
flour  should  be  thrown  among  them,  and  a  shake  given  to 
them  which  causes  the  thing  that  they  are  put  to,  to  be 
lighter. 

Eggs  should  be  very  long  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  apart, 
and  always  strained.  Sugar  should  be  rubbed  to  a  powder  on 
a  clean  board,  and  sifted  through  a  very  fine  hair  sieve. 

Lemon-peel  should  be  pared  very  thin,  and  with  a  little 
sugar  beaten  in  a  marble  mortar  to  a  paste,  and  then  mixed 
with  a  little  wine  or  cream,  so  as  to  divide  easily  among  the 
other  ingredients.  After  all  the  articles  are  put  into  the  pan 
they  should  be  thoroughly  and  long  beaten  as  the  lightness  of 
the  cake  depends  much  on  their  being  well  incorporated. 
Whether  black  or  white  plum-cakes,  they  require  less  butter 
than  eggs  for  having  yeast,  and  eat  equally  light  and  rich.  If 
the  leaven  be  only  of  flour,  milk  and  water  and  yeast,  it  be- 
comes tough,  and  is  less  easily  divided,  and  if  the  butter  be 
first  put  with  these  ingredients,  and  the  dough  afterwards  set 
to  rise  by  the  fire. 

The  heat  of  the  oven  is  of  great  importance  for  cakes, 
especially  those  that  are  large.  If  not  pretty  quick  the  bat- 
ter will  not  rise.  Should  you  fear  its  scorching  by  being  too 
quick,  put  some  paper  over  the  cake  to  prevent  its  being 
burnt.  If  not  long  enough  lighted  to  have  a  body  of  heat,  or 
if  it  has  become  slack,  the  cake  will  be  heavy.  To  know  when 
it  is  soaked,  take  a  broad  blade  knife,  that  is  very  bright  and 
plunge  into  the  very  center,  draw  instantly  out,  and  if  the 
least  stickiness  adheres,  put  the  cake  immediately  in  and  shut 
the  oven.  If  the  heat  was  sufficient  to  raise  but  not  to  soak, 
I  have  with  great  success  had  a  fresh  fuel  quickly  put  in,  and 


68 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


kept  the  cakes  hot  till  the  oven  was  fit  to  finish  the  soaking, 
and  they  turned  out  extremely  well.  But  those  who  are  em- 
ployed should  be  particularly  careful  that  no  mistake  occur 
from  negligence  when  large  cakes  are  to  be  baked. 

Plum-Cake 

Mix  thoroughly  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  fine  flour  well 
dried,  with  a  pound  of  dry  and  sifted  loaf  sugar,  three  pounds 
of  currants  washed  and  very  dry,  half  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned 
and  chopped,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace  and  cloves,  twen- 
ty Jamaica  peppers,  a  grated  nutmeg,  the  peel  of  a  lemon  cut 
as  fine  as  possible,  and  half  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched,  and 
beaten  with  orange-flower  water.  Melt  two  pounds  of  butter 
in  a  pint  and  a  quarter  of  cream,  but  not  hot,  put  to  it  a  pint 
of  sweet  wine,  a  glass  of  brandy,  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
twelve  eggs  beaten  apart,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  yeast. 
Strain  this  liquid  by  degrees  into  the  dry  ingredients,  beating 
them  together  a  full  hour,  then  butter  the  hcop  or  pan,  and 
bake  it.  As  you  put  the  batter  into  the  hoop,  or  pan.  throw 
in  plenty  of  citron,  lemon,  and  orange  candy. 

If  you  ice  the  cake,  take  half  a  pound  of  double  refined 
sugar  sifted,  and  put  a  little  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  beat  it 
well,  and  by  degrees  pour  in  the  remainder.  It  must  be 
whisked  near  an  hour,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  orange-flower 
water,  but  mind  not  to  put  too  much.  When  the  cake  is 
done,  pour  the  icing  over,  and  return  it  to  the  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes,  but  if  the  oven  be  warm,  keep  it  near  the 
mouth,  and  the  door  open,  lest  the  color  be  spoiled. 

Another  Plum-Cake 

Flour  dried,  and  currants  washed  and  picked,  four  pounds 
sugar  pounded  and  sifted  one  pound  and  a  half,  six  oranges, 
lemon,  and  citron-peels  cut  in  slices,  mix  these.  Beat  ten 
eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate!}",  then  melt  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  butter  m  a  pint  of  cream,  when  lukewarm  put  it  to 
half  a  pint  of  ale  yeast,  near  half  a  pint  of  sweet  wine,  and  the 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


69 


eggs,  then  strain  the  liquid  to  the  dry  ingredients,  beat  them 
well  and  add  the  cloves,  mace,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  half'an 
ounce  each.  Butter  the  pan,  and  put  it  into  a  quick  oven. 
Three  hours  will  bake  it. 

A  Very  Fine  Cake 

Wash  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  fresh  butter  in  water  first, 
and  then  in  rose-water;  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  beat  twenty 
eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  half  an  hour  each.  Have 
ready  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  the  finest  flour,  well  dried  and 
kept  hot,  likewise  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  pounded  and 
sifted,  one  ounce  of  spice  in  the  finest  powder,  three  pounds 
of  currants  nicely  cleaned  and  dry,  half  a  pound  of  almonds 
blanched,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sweetmeat  cut  not 
too  thin.  Let  all  be  kept  by  the  fire,  mix  all  the  dry  ingre- 
dients, pour  the  eggs  strained  to  the  butter,  mix  half  a  pint  of 
sweet  wine,  with  a  large  glass  of  brandy,  pour  it  to  the  butter 
and  eggs,  mix  well,  then  have  all  the  dry  things  put  in  by 
degrees,  beat  them  very  thoroughly;  you  can  hardly  do  it  too 
much.  Having  half  a  pound  of  stoned  jar  raisins  chopped 
fine  as  possible,  mix  them  carefully,  so  that  there  will  be 
no  lumps.  Beat  the  ingredients  together  a  full  hour  at  least. 
Have  a  hoop  well  buttered,  or  if  you  have  none,  a  tin  or 
copper  bake-pan,  take  a  white  paper,  doubled  and  buttered  and 
put  in  the  pan  around  the  edge,  if  the  cake  batter  fills  it  more 
than  three  parts,  for  space  should  be  allowed  for  rising.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.    It  will  require  three  hours. 

An  Excellent  and  Less  Expensive  Cake 

Rub  two  pounds  of  dry  fine  flour,  with  one  of  butter, 
washed  in  plain  and  rose-water,  mix  it  with  three  spoonfuls  of 
yeast  in  a  little  warm  milk  and  water.  Set  it  to  rise  an  hour 
and  a  half  before  the  fire,  then  beat  into  it  two  pounds 
of  currants,  one  pound  of  sugar  sifted,  four  ounces  of 
almonds,  six  ounces  of  stoned  raisins,  chopped  fine,  half  a 
nutmeg,  cinnamon,  allspice,  and  a  few  cloves,  the  peel  of  a 


70 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


lemon  chopped  as  fine  as  possible,  a  glass  of  wine,  ditto  of 
brandy,  twelve  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  beat  separately  and 
long,  orange,  citron,  and  lemon.  Beat  exceedingly  well  and 
butter  the  pan;  a  quick  oven. 

A  very   Good   Common  Cake 

Rub  eight  ounces  of  butter  into  two  pounds  of  dried 
flour,  mix  it  with  three  spoonfuls  of  yeast  that  is  not  bitter, 
to  a  paste.  Let  it  rise  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  mix  in  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  apart,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  some  milk  to  make  it  a  proper  thickness,  ( about  a 
pint  will  be  sufficient )  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  the  rind  of  a 
lemon,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Add  either  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  currants,  or  some  caraways,  and  beat  well. 

A  Cheap  Seed  Cake 

Mix  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  flour  with  a  pound  of  sugar, 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  and  a  little  ginger;  melt 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  with  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
when  just  warm  put  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast,  and 
work  up  to  a  good  dough.  Let  it  stand  before  the  fire  a  few 
minutes  before  it  goes  to  the  oven,  add  seeds  or  currants  and 
bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Another 

Mix  a  pound  and  a  half  of  common  lump  sugar,  eight  eggs 
beaten  separately,  an  ounce  of  seeds,  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast, 
and  the  same  of  milk  and  water.  Note — milk  alone  causes 
bread  and  cake  soon  to  dry. 

Common  Bread  Cake 

Take  a  quantity  of  a  quartern  loaf  from  the  dough  when 
making  white  bread,  and  knead  well  into  two  ounces  of  butter, 
two  of  Lisbon  sugar,  and  eight  of  currants.  Warm  the  butter 
in  a  teaspoonful  of  good  milk.  By  the  addition  of  an  ounce  of 
butter,  or  sugar,  or  an  egg  or  two,  you  may  make  the  cake 
better.  A  teaspoonful  of  raw  cream  improves  it  much.  It 
is  best  to  bake  in  a  pan,  rather  than  as  a  loaf,  the  outside 
being  less  hard. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


7* 


A  Good  Pound  Cake 

Beat  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream,  and  mix  with  it  the 
whites  and  yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten  apart.  Have  ready 
warm  by  the  fire,  a  pound  of  flour  and  the  same  of  sifted 
sugar,  mix  them  and  a  few  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinna- 
mon in  fine  powder  together,  then  by  degrees,  work  the  dry 
ingredients  into  the  butter  and  eggs.  When  well  beaten,  add 
a  glass  of  wine,  and  some  caraways.  It  must  be  beaten  a 
full  half  hour.  Butter  a  pan,  and  bake  it  a  full  hour  in  a 
quick  oven. 

The  above  proportions,  leaving  out  four  ounces  of  the 
buttter,  and  the  same  of  sugar,  make  a  less  delicious  cake. 

Queen  Cakes 

Mix  a  pound  of  dried  flour,  the  same  of  sifted  sugar,  and 
of  washed  clean  currants,  wash  a  pound  of  butter  in  rose-water, 
beat  it  well,  then  mix  with  it  eight  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately,  add  and  put  in  the  dry  ingredients  by 
degrees.  Beat  the  whole  an  hour,  butter  little  tins,  teacups 
or  saucers,  and  bake  the  batter  in,  filling  only  half.  Sift  a 
little  fine  sugar  over,  just  as  you  put  into  the  oven. 

Queen   Cakes,  Another  Way 

Beat  eight  ounces  of  butter,  and  mix  with  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  strained,  mix  eight  ounces  of  dried  flour,  and  the 
same  of  lump  sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  then  add 
the  whole  together,  and  beat  full  half  an  hour  with  a  silver 
spoon.  Butter  some  small  patty-pans,  half  fill,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

A  Common  Cake 

Mix  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  with  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  half  an  ounce  of 
caraways,  and  a  glass  of  raisin  wine,  beat  it  well  and  bake  it 
in  a  quick  oven.    Fine  Lisbon  sugar  will  do. 


72 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Shrewsbury  Cakes 

Sift  one  pound  of  sugar,  some  pounded  cinnamon,  and  a 
nutmeg  grated,  into  three  pounds  of  flour,  the  finest  sort,  add 
a  little  rose-water  to  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  mix  these 
with  the  flour,  etc.  Then  pour  into  it  as  much  butter  melted 
as  will  make  it  a  good  thickness  to  roll  out.  Mould  it  well, 
and  roll  thin,  and  cut  it  into  such  shapes  as  you  like. 

Little  White  Cakes 

Dry  half  a  pound  of  flour,  rub  into  it  a  very  little  pounded 
sugar,  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  egg,  a  few  caraways,  and  as 
much  milk  and  water  as  to  make  a  paste,  roll  it  thin,  and  cut 
it  with  the  top  of  a  cannister  or  glass.  Bake  fifteen  minutes 
on  tin  plates. 

Tea  Cakes 

Rub  fine  four  ounces  of  butter  into  eight  ounces  of  flour, 
mix  eight  ounces  of  currants  and  six  of  fine  Lisbon  sugar,  two 
yolks  and  one  white  of  an  egg  and  a  spoonful  of  brandy.  Roll 
the  paste  the  thickness  of  an  Oliver  biscuit,  and  cut  with  a 
wine  glass.  You  may  beat  the  other  white  and  wash  over 
them,  and  either  dust  sugar  or  not,  as  you  like. 

Very  good  Common  Plum-Cake 

Rub  into  three  pounds  of  dried  flour  four  ounces  of  butter, 
and  five  ounces  of  fine  Lisbon  sugar,  add  six  ounces  of  cur- 
rants, washed  and  dried,  and  some  pimento  finely  powered,  put 
three  spoonfuls  of  yeast  into  a  Winchester  pint  of  new  milk 
warmed,  and  mix  into  a  light  dough  with  the  above.  Make  it 
into  twelve  cakes  and  bake  on  a  floured  tin  half  an  hour. 

Benton  Tea  Cakes 

Mix  a  paste  of  flour,  a  little  bit  of  butter,  and  milk,  roll  as 
thin  as  possible,  and  bake  on  a  bake-stone  over  the  fire,  or  on 
a  hot  hearth.. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


73 


Another  sort  as  Biscuit 

Rub  into  a  pound  of  flour  six  ounces  of  butter,  and-tbree 
large  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  make  into  a  paste,  with  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  new  milk,  make  into  biscuit  and  prick  them 
with  a  clean  fork. 

Another  Sort 

Melt  six  or  seven  ounces  of  butter  with  a  sufficiency  of 
flour  into  a  stiff  paste,  roll  thin,  and  make  into  biscuits. 

Hard  Biscuit 

Warm  two  ounces  of  butter  in  as  much  skimmed  milk  as 
will  make  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  very  stiff  paste,  beat  it  with 
a  rolling  pin,  and  work  it  very  smooth.  Roll  it  thin,  and  cut 
it  into  round  biscuits,  prick  them  full  of  holes  with  a  fork,  and 
six  minutes  will  bake  them. 

Flat  Cakes  that  will  Keep  Long  and  Good  in  the  House 

Mix  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  one 
ounce  of  caraways,  with  four  or  five  eggs,  and  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  water  to  make  a  stiff  paste,  roll  it  thin,  and  cut  into  any 
shape.  Bake  on  tins  lightly  floured.  While  baking,  boil  a 
pound  of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water  to  a  thin  syrup  ;  while  both 
are  hot,  dip  each  cake  into  it,  and  put  them  on  tins  into  the 
oven  to  dry  for  a  short  time,  and  when  the  oven  is  cooler  still, 
return  them  there  again,  and  let  them  stay  four  or  five  hours. 

Plain  and  Very  Crisp  Biscuits 

Make  a  pound  of  flour;  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  some  milk, 
into  a  very  stiff  paste,  beat  it  well,  and  knead  till  quite  smooth, 
roll  it  very  thin,  and  cut  into  biscuits.  Bake  them  in  a  slow 
oven,  till  quite  dry  and  crisp. 

Little  Plum-Cakes  to   Keep  Long 

Dry  one  pound  of  flour,  and  mix  with  six  ounces  of  but- 
ter to  a  cream,  and  add  to  three  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  pound 


74 


The  Sou  them i  Cookbook 


of  currants  washed  and  nicely  dried,  and  the  flour  and  sugar, 
beat  all  for  some  time,  then  dredge  flour  on  tin  plates,  and 
drop  the  batter  on  them  the  size  of  a  walnut.  If  properly 
mixed,  it  will  be  a  stiff  paste.    Bake  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Rusks 

Beat  seven  eggs  well,  and  mix  with  half  a  pint  of  new 
milk,  in  which  has  been  melted  four  ounces  of  butter,  add  to 
it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast,  and  three  ounces  of  sugar,  and 
put  them  by  degrees,  into  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  very 
light  paste,  rather  like  a  batter,  and  let  it  rise  before  the  fire 
half  an  hour,  then  add  some  more  flour  to  make  it  stiffer,  but 
not  stiff.  Work  it  well  and  divide  it  into  small  loaves  or 
cakes,  about  five  or  six  inches  wide,  and  flatten  them.  When 
baked  and  cold,  slice  them  the  thickness  of  rusks  and  put  them 
in  the  oven  to  brown  a  little. 

Note — The  cakes  when  first  baked,  eat  deliriously  but- 
tered for  tea,  or  with  caraways  to  eat  cold. 

A  Biscuit  Cake 

One  pound  of  flour,  five  eggs  well  beaten,  and  strained, 
eight  ounces  of  sugar,  a  little  rose  or  orange-flower  water, 
beat  the  whole  thoroughly,  and  bake  one  hour. 

Crack-nuts 

Mix  eight  ounces  of  flour  and  eight  ounces  of  sugar,  melt 
four  ounces  of  butter  in  two  spoonfuls  of  raisin  wine,  then 
with  four  eggs  beaten  and  strained,  make  into  a  paste,  add 
caraways,  roll  out  as  thin  as  paper,  cut  with  the  top  of  a 
glass,  wash  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  dust  sugar  over. 

Water  Cakes 

Dry  three  pounds  of  fine  flour,  and  rub  into  it  one  pound, 
of  sugar  sifted,  one  pound  of  butter,  and  one  ounce  of  cara- 
way seed.  Make  into  a  paste  with  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of 
boiling  milk,  roll  very  thin,  and  cut  into  the  size  you  choose, 
punch  full  of  holes,  and  bake  on  tin  plates  in  a  cool  oven. 


The  Southern  Cookbook  75 

Cracknels 

Mix  with  a  quart  of  flour  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  beaten  with  four  spoonfuls  of  rose-water,  into  a 
stiff  paste  with  cold  water,  then  roll  in  a  pound  of  butter  and 
make  them  into  a  cracknel  shape,  put  them  into  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  them  till  they  swim,  then  take  out, 
and  put  them  into  cool  water;  when  hardened,  lay  them  out  to 
dry,  and  bake  on  tin  plates. 

Rice  Cakes 

t 

Mix  ten  ounces  of  ground  rice,  three  ounces  of  flour, 
eight  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  then  sift  by  degrees  into 
eight  yolks  and  six  whites  of  eggs,  and  the  peel  of  a  lemon 
shred  so  fine  that  it  is  quite  mashed.  Mix  the  whole  well  in 
a  tin  stew-pan  over  a  very  slow  fire  with  a  whisk,  then  put  it 
immediately  into  the  oven  in  the  same,  and  bake  forty  minutes. 

Another  Rice  Cake 

Beat  twelve  yolks  and  six  whites  of  eggs  with  the  peels 
of  two  lemons  grated.  Mix  one  pound  of  flour  of  rice,  eight 
ounces  of  flour,  and  one  pound  of  sugar  pounded  and  sifted, 
then  beat  it  well  with  the  eggs  by  degrees,  for  an  hour  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  butter  a  pan  well,  and  put  it  in  at  the  oven 
mouth.    A  gentle  oven  will  bake  it  in  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Sponge  Cake 

Weigh  ten  eggs,  and  their  weight  in  very  fine  sugar,  and 
that  of  six  in  flour,  and  the  whites  alone  in  a  very  stiff  froth, 
then  by  degrees  mix  the  whites  and  the  flour  with  the  other 
ingredients,  and  beat  them  well  half  an  hour  ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  an  hour. 

Another,   Without  Butter 

Dry  one  pound  of  flour  and  one  and  a  quarter  of  sugar, 
beat  seven  eggs,  yolks  and  whiles  apart,  grate  lemon,  and 
with  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  beat  the  whole  together  with  your 
hand  half  an  hour.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  a  quick  oven. 
Sweetmeats  may  be  added,  if  approved. 


76 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Macaroons 

Blanch  four  ounces  of  almonds,  and  pound  with  four 
spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water,  whisk  the  white  of  four  eggs 
to  a  froth,  then  mix  it,  and  a  pound  of  sugar  sifted,  with  the 
almonds  to  paste,  and  laying  a  sheet  of  wafer  paper  on  a  tin' 
put  it  on  different  little  cakes  the  shape  of  macaroons. 

Wafers 

Dry  the  flour  well  which  you  intend  to  use,  mix  a  little 
pounded  sugar,  and  finely  pounded  mace  with  it,  then  make 
it  into  a  thick  batter  with  cream,  butter  the  wafer  irons,  let 
them  be  hot,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  the  batter  into  them,  bake 
them  carefully,  and  roll  them  off  the  iron  with  a  stick 

Turnbridge  Cakes 

Rub  six  ounces  of  butter  quite  fine  into  a  pound  of  flour, 
then  mix  six  ounces  of  sugar,  beat  and  strain  two  eggs,  and 
make  with  the  above  into  a  paste.  Roll  it  very  thin,  and  cut 
with  the  top  of  a  glass,  prick  them  with  a  fork,  and  cover  with 
caraways,  or  wash  with  the  white  of  an  egg  and  dust  a  little 
white  sugar  over. 

Ginger-bread 

Mix  with  two  pounds  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  treacle, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  caraways,  one  ounce  of  ginger 
finely  sifted,  and  ten  ounces  of  butter. 

Roll  the  paste  into  what  form  you  please,  and  bake  on 

tins. 

Another  Sort 

To  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  treacle,  beat  one  egg 
strained,  mix  four  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of 
ginger  sifted,  of  cloves,  mace,  allspice,  and  nutmeg  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce,  melt  one  pound  of  butter,  and  mix  with  the 
above,  and  add  as  much  flour  as  will  knead  into  a  pretty 
paste,  then  roll  it  out,  and  cut  into  cakes. 

Bake  on  tin  plates  in  a  quick  oven.  A  little  time  will 
bake  them. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


77 


To  Make  a  Good  Ginger-bread  without  Butter 

Mix  two  pounds  of  treacle,  of  orange,  lemon  cition,  and 
candied  ginger,  each  four  ounces,  all  finely  sliced,  one  ounce 
of  coriander  seeds,  one  ounce  of  caraways,  and  one  ounce  of 
beaten  ginger,  in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  soft  paste,  lay 
it  in  cakes  on  tin  plates,  and  it  will  be  good  for  some  months. 

Note.  If  cake  or  biscuit  be  kept  in  .paper  or  a  drawer, 
the  taste  will  be  disagreeable.  A  pan  and  cover  or  tureen 
will  preserve  them  long  and  moist,  or  if  to  be  crisp,  laying 
them  before  the  fire  makes  them  so. 

A  Good  Plain  Bun  that  May  Be  Eaten  with  or  without  Toasting 

and  Butter 

Rub  four  ounces  of  butter  into  two  pounds  of  flour,  four 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  nutmeg,  or  not  as  you  like,  a  few  Jamaica 
peppers,  a  dessert  spoonful  or  two  of  cream  into  a  cup  of 
yeast,  and  as  much  good  milk  as  will  make  the  above  into  a 
light  paste.  Set  it  to  rise  by  a  fire,  till  the  oven  is  ready. 
They  will  quickly  bake  on  tins. 

Richer  Buns 

Mix  one  pound  and  a  half  of  dried  flour  with  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  melt  a  pound  and  two  ounces  of  butler  in  a  little 
warm  water,  add  six  spoonfuls  of  rose-water,  and  knead  the 
above  into  a  light  dough,  with  half  a  pint  of  yeast,  then  mix 
five  ounces  of  caraway  comfits  in,  and  put  some  on  them. 

Muffins 

Mix  two  pounds  of  flour  with  two  eggs,  two  ounces  of 
butter  melted  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  four  or  five  spoonfuls  of 
yeast,  beat  it  thoroughly,  and  set  it  to  rise  two  or  three  hours. 
Bake  on  a  hot  hearth  in  flat  cakes.  When  done  on  one  side 
turn  them. 

Note.  Muffins,  rolls  or  bread,  if  stale  may  be  made  to 
taste  new,  by  dipping  in  cold  water,  and  toasting  or  heating 
in  an  oven,  or  Dutch  oven,  till  the  outside  be  crimped. 


78 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


French  Rolls 

Rub  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  pound  of  flour,  mix  one 
egg  beaten,  a  little  yeast  that  is  not  bitter,  and  as  much  milk 
as  will  make  a  dough  of  a  middling  stiffness.  Beat  it  well 
do  not  knead,  let  it  rise,  and  bake  on  tins. 

Brentford  Rolls 

Mix  with  two  pounds  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  two  ounces  of 
sifted  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter,  and  two  eggs  beaten  with 
two  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  about  a  pint  of  milk  ;  knead  the 
dough  well,  and  set  it  to  rise  before  the  fire.  Make  twelve 
rolls,  butter  tin  plates,  and  set  them  before  the  fire  to  rise  till 
they  become  a  proper  size,  then  bake  a  half  an  hour. 

Excellent  Rolls 

Warm  one  ounce  of  butter  in  half  a  pint  of  milk,  put  to 
it  a  spoonful  and  a  half  of  yeast  of  small  beer  and  a  little  salt. 
Put  two  pounds  of  flour  into  a  pan,  and  mix  into  seven  rolls, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

If  made  in  cakes  three  inches  thick  sliced  and  buttered, 
they  resemble  Sally  Lunns  as  made  at  Bath. 

The  foregoing  recipe,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  saffron, 
boiled  in  half  a  teacup  of  milk  makes  it  remarkably  good. 

Saffron  Cakes  to  Eat  Hot  with  Potato  Butter 

Boil  three  pounds  of  potatoes,  bruise  and  work  them  with 
two  ounces  of  butter,  and  as  much  milk  as  will  make  them 
pass  through  a  colander.  Take  half  or  three  quarters  of  a 
pint  of  warm  water,  mix  with  the  potatoes,  then  pour  the 
whole  upon  five  pounds  of  flour,  and  add  some  salt.  Knead 
it  well  ;  if  not  of  a  proper  consistency,  put  a  little  more  milk 
and  water  warm.  Let  it  stand  before  the  fire  half  an  hour  to 
rise.  Work  it  well,  and  make  into  rolls.  Bake  about  half  an 
hour  in  an  oven,  not  quite  so  hot  as  for  bread. 

They  eat  well  toasted  and  buttered. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


79 


Yorkshire  Cake 

Take  two  pounds  of  flour  and  mix  with  it  four  ounces  of 
butter  melted  in  a  pint  of  good  milk,  three  spoonfuls  of  yeast 
and  two  eggs,  beat  all  well  together,  and  let  it  rise,  then 
knead  it  and  make  into  cakes,  let  them  rise  on  tins  before  you 
bake,  which  do  in  a  slow  oven. 

Another  sort  is  made  as  above,  leaving  out  butter. 

The  first  sort  is  shorter,  the  last  lighter. 

French  Bread 

With  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  fine  flour  mix  the  yolks  of 
three  and  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  and  strained,  a  little 
salt,  half  a  pint  of  good  yeast  that  is  not  bitter,  and  as  much 
milk,  made  a  little  warm  as  will  work  into  a  thin,  light  dough. 
Stir  it  about,  but  do  not  knead  it.  Have  ready  three  quart 
wooden  dishes,  divide  the  dough  among  them,  set  them  to 
rise,  then  turn  them  out  into  the  oven,  which  must  be  quick. 
Rasp  when  done. 


8o 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


SWEETMEATS 

Observations  on  Sweetmeats 

Sweetmeats  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  unless  they 
have  a  very  small  proportion  of  sugar,  a  warm  one  does  not 
hurt,  but  when  not  properly  boiled,  that  is,  long  enough,  but 
not  quick,  heat  makes  them  ferment,  and  damp  causes  them 
to  grow  mouldy.  They  should  be  looked  at  two  or  three  times 
a  month,  that  they  may  be  gently  boiled  again,  it  not  likely  to 
keep.  It  is  necessarv  to  observe  that  sugar  being  boiled  more 
or  less,  constitutes  the  chief  art  of  the  confectioner,  and  those 
who  are  not  practised  in  the  knowledge,  and  only  preserve  in 
a  plain  way  for  family  use,  are  not  aware,  that  in  two  or  three 
minutes,  a  syrup  over  the  fire  will  pass  from  one  gradation  to 
another,  called  by  the  confectioners,  degrees  of  boiling,  of 
which  there  are  six,  and  those  sub-divided 

But  I  am  not  versed  in  the  minutia,  and  only  make  the 
observation  to  guard  against  under-boiling,  which  prevents 
sweetmeats  from  keeping,  and  quick  boiling  and  long,  which 
brings  them  to  candy.  Attention  without  practise,  will  enable 
the  person  to  do  any  of  the  following  sorts  of  sweetmeats  etc., 
and  they  are  as  much  as  are  wanted  in  a  private  family,  and  the 
higher  articles  of  preserved  fruits  may  be  bought  at  less  ex- 
pense than  made. 

A  pan  of  double  blocktin  should  be  kept  for  the  purpose 
of  preserving.  A  low  handle  opposite  the  straight  one, 
for  safety,  will  do  very  well,  and  if  put  by  nicely  cleaned,  in  a 
clean  place,  when  done  with,  will  last  for  several  years.  Those 
of  copper  or  brass  are  improper  as  the  tinning  wears  out  by 
the  scraping  of  the  sweetmeat  ladle.  There  is  a  new  sort  of 
iron,  with  a  strong  tinning,  which  promises  to  wear  long. 
Sieves  and  spoons  should  be  kept  likewise  for  sweet  things. 

To  Clarify  Sugar 

Break  as  much  as  required  in  large  lumps,  and  put  a  pound 
to  half  a  pint  of  water,  in  a  bowl,  and  it  will  dissolve  better 


The  Southern  Cookbook  81 

than  when  broken  small.  Set  it  over  the  fire,  and  the  well- 
whipped  white  of  an  egg,  let  it  boil  up,  and  when  ready  to  run 
over,  pour  a  little  cold  water  in  it  to  give  it  a  check,  but  when 
it  rises  a  second  time,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  set  it  by  in  the 
pan  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  during  which  time  the  foulness 
will  sink  to  the  bottom  and  leave  a  black  scum  on  the  top, 
which  take  off  gently  with  a  skimmer,  and  pour  the  syrup  into 
a  vessel  very  quick  from  the  sediment. 

To  dry  Cherries  with  Sugar 

Stone  six  pounds  of  Kentish,  put  them  into  a  preserving 
pan,  with  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  pounded  and  strewed 
among  them,  simmer  till  they  begin  to  shrivel,  then  strain  them 
from  the  juice,  lay  them  on  a  hot  hearth,  or  in  an  oven,  when 
either  are  cool  enough  to  dry  without  baking  them.  The  same 
syrup  will  do  another  six  pounds  of  fruit. 

To  dry  Cherries  without  Sugar 

Stone  and  set  them  over  the  fire  in  the  preserving  pan,  let 
them  simmer  in  their  liquor,  and  shake  them  in  a  pan.  Put 
them  by  in  common  china  dishes,  and  put  them,  when  cold,  on 
sieves  to  dry,  in  an  oven  of  a  tempered  heat  as  above.  Twice 
heating,  an  hour  each  time,  will  do  them. 

Put  them  in  a  box  with  a  paper  between  each  layer. 

Excellent  Sweetmeats  for  Tarts  when  Fruit  is  Plentiful 

Divide  two  pounds  of  apricots  when  just  ripe,  and  take 
out  and  break  the  stones,  put  the  kernels  without  their  skins 
to  the  fruit,  add  to  it  three  pounds  of  greengage  plums  and 
two  pounds  and  a  half  of  lump  sugar.  Simmer  until  the  fruit 
be  a  clear  jam.  The  sugar  should  be  broken  in  large  pieces, 
and  just  dipped  iivwater,  and  added  to  the  fruit  over  a  slow 
fire.  Observe  that  it  does  not  boil,  and  skim  it  well.  If  the 
sugar  be  clarified  it  will  make  the  jam  better.  Put  it  in  small 
pots,  in  which  all  sweetmeats  keep  better. 


(6) 


82  The  Southern  Cookbook 

Currant  Jelly,  Red  or  Black 

Strip  the  fruit,  and  put  them  in  a  sauce  pan  of  water,  or  by 
boiling  it  on  the  hot  hearth,  strain  off  the  liquor,1  and  to  every 
pint  weigh  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Put  the  latter  in  large  lumps 
into  it,  in  a  stone  or  china  vessel,  till  nearly  dissolved,  then 
put  it  in  a  preserving  pan.  Simmer  and  skim  as  necessary. 
When  it  will  jelly  on  the  plate,  put  it  in  small  jars  or  glasses. 

Raspberry  Jam 

Weigh  equal  quantities  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Put  the  former 
into  a  preserving  pan,  boil  and  break  it,  stir  constantly,  and  let 
it  boil  very  quickly.  When  most  of  the  juice  is  wasted,  add  the 
sugar  and  simmer  to  a  fine  jam. 

This  way  the  jam  is  greatly  superior  in  color  and  flavor  to 
that  which  is  made  by  putting  the  sugar  in  at  first. 

Raspberry  Jam,  Another  way 

Put  the  fruit  in  a  jar  into  a  kettle  of  water,  or  on  a  hot 
hearth  till  the  juice  will  run  from  it,  then  take  away  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  from  every  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  and  bruise  it  half  an 
hour,  then  put  in  the  weight  of  the  fruit  in  sugar,  and  adding 
the  same  quantity  of  currant  juice,  boil  it  to  a  strong  jelly.  The 
raspberry  juice  will  serve  to  put  into  brandy,  or  may  be  boiled, 
with  its  weight  in  sugar,  for  making  the  jelly  for  raspberry  ice 
or  cream. 

Raspberry  Jelly  for  Ices  or  Cream 

Do  the  fruit  as  directed  for  currant  jelly,  and  use  in  the 
same  proportion  of  sugar  and  liquors. 

Raspberry  Cakes 

Pick  out  any  bad  raspberries  that  are  among  the  fruit 
weigh  and  boil  what  quantity  you  please,  and  when  mashed, 
and  the  liquor  is  wasted,  put  to  it  sugar  the  weight  of  the  fruit 
you  first  put  into  the  pan. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


83 


Mix  it  well  off  the  fire,  until  perfectly  dissolved,  then  put 
on  china  plates,  and  dry  it  in  the  sun.    As  soon  as  the  top  part 
•dries,  cut  with  the  cover  of  a  cannister  into  small  cakes,  turn 
them  on  fresh  plates,  and  when  dry  put  them  in  boxes  with 
layers  of  paper. 

Apricot  Cheese 

Weigh  an  equal  quantity  of  pared  fruit  and  sugar,  wet  the 
latter  very  little,  and  let  it  boil  quickly,  or  the  color  will  be 
spoiled,  blanch  the  kernels,  and  add  to  it;  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes  will  boil  it.    Put  it  in  small  pots  or  cups  half  filled. 

Apricots  or  Peaches  in  Brandy 

Wipe,  weigh,  and  pick  the  fruit,  and  have  ready  a  quarter 
of  the  weight  of  fine  sugar  in  fine  powder.  Put  the  fruit  into 
a  nice  pot  that  shuts  very  close,  tnrow  the  sugar  over  it,  and 
then  cover  the  fruit  with  brandy.  Between  the  top  and  cover 
of  the  pot,  put  a  piece  of  double  cap  paper.  Set  the  top  onto 
a  saucepan  of  water  till  the  brandy  be  as  hot  as  you  can  pos- 
sibly bear  to  put  your  finger  in,  but  must  not  boil. 

Put  the  fruit  into  a  jar  and  pour  the  brandy  on  it.  When 
cold,  put  a  bladder  over,  and  tie  it  down  tight. 

Cherries  in  Brandy 

Weigh  the  finest  molasses,  having  cut  off  half  the  stalk, 
prick  them  with  a  new  needle,  and  drop  them  into  a  jar  or  wide 
mouth  bottle.    Pound  three-quarters   the   weight  of  sugar 
or  white  candy,  strew  over,  fill  up  with  brandy,  and  tie  a  blad- 
der over. 

To  Prepare  Oranges  to  put  into  Orange  Puddings 

Put  twelve  Seville  oranges  into  water,  and  change  them 
three  days.  Boil  them  in  the  least  water  till  tender,  scoop  out 
the  pulp,  and  pick  out  the  kernels,  then  in  a  marble  mortar 
beat  the  oranges,  then  the  pulp  separately,  and  after  both 
together.  To  every  pound  put  a  pound  and  half  of  a  sugar, 
pounded  and  sifted,  and  beat  to  a  paste.  Keep  it  in  small 
gallipots  and  cover  with  white  paper  dipped  in  brandy. 


84 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


To  Dry  Apricots,  in  Half 

Pare  thin  and  halve  four  pounds  of  apricots,  weighing  them 
after,  put  them  in  a  dish  and  strew  among  them  three  pounds 
of  sugar  in  the  finest  powder.  When  it  melts,  set  the  fruit 
over  the  stove  to  do  very  gently.  As  each  piece  becomes 
tender,  take  it  out  and  put  it  into  a  china  bowl.  When  all 
are  done,  and  the  boiling  heat  a  little  abated,  pour  the  syrup 
over  them.  In  a  day  or  two  remove  the  syrup,  leaving  only  a 
little  in  each  half.  In  a  day  or  two  more  turn  them,  and  so 
continue  daily  till  quite  dry,  keeping  in  the  sun  or  a  warm  place. 
Keep  in  boxes  with  layers  of  paper. 

To  Preserve  Apricots  in  Jelly 

Pare  the  fruit  very  thin  and  stone  it.  Weigh  an  equal 
quantity  of  sugar  in  the  powder  and  strew  over  it.  Next  day 
boil  very  gently  till  they  are  clear,  move  them  into  a  bowl  and 
pour  the  liquor  over.  The  following  day  pour  the  liquor  to  a 
quart  of  codlin  liquor,  made  by  boiling  and  straining,  a  pound 
of  fine  sugar,  let  it  boil  quickly  till  it  will  jelly,  put  the  fruit 
into  it  and  give  one  boil,  and  having  skimmed  well,  put  into 
small  pots. 

Apple  Jelly  for  the  Above,  or  Any  Sort  of  Sweetmeats 

Let  apples  be  pared,  quartered,  and  cored,  put  them  in 
a  stewpan  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  them,  boil  as  fast 
as  possible.  When  the  fruit  is  all  in  a  mash,  add  a  quart  of 
water,  boil  half  an  hour  more,  arid  run  through  a  jelly  bag. 
If  in  summer,  codlins  are  best,  in  September  golden  rennets 
or  winter  pippins. 

To  Preserve  Green  Apricots 

Lay  vine  or  apricot  leaves  at  the  bottom  of  your  pan,  the 
fruit,  and  so  alternately  till  full,  the  upper  layer  being  thick 
with  leaves,  then  fill  with  spring  water  and  cover  down  that 
no  steam  may  come  out.  Set  the  pan  at  a  distance  from  the 
fire  that  in  four  or  five  hours  they  may  be  very  soft,  but  not 
cracked.  Make  a  thin  syrup  of  some  of  the  water,  and  drain 
the  fruit;  when  both  are  cold,  put  the  fruit  into  the  pan  and 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


85 


the  syrup  to  it,  put  the  pan  at  a  proper  distance  on  the  fire 
till  the  apricots  green,  but  on  no  account  boil  or  crack;  remove 
them  very  carefully  in  a  pan  with  the  syrup  for  two  or  three 
days,  then  pour  off  as  much  of  it  as  will  be  necessary,  and 
boil  with  them  more  sugar  to  make  a  rich  syrup  and  put  a 
little  sliced  ginger  into  it.  When  cold,  and  the  thin  syrup 
has  all  been  drained  from  the  fruit,  pour  the  thick  over  it. 

To  Preserve  Strawberries  Whole 

Get  the  finest  scarlets  before  they  are  too  ripe,  with  their 
stalks  kept  on,  lay  them  separately  on  a  china  dish,  beat  and 
sift  twice  their  weight  of  double  refined  sugar  over  them, 
then  bruise  a  few  ripe  strawberries,  with  their  weight  of 
double  refined  sugar,  in  a  china  basin,  cover  it  close  and  set 
it  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  which  will  just  hold  it  till 
the  juice  comes  out  and  becomes  thick,  strain  it  through  a 
muslin  into  a  sweet-meat  pan,  boil  it  up  and  skim  it.  When 
cold,  put  in  the  strawberries,  set  them  over  the  stove  till  milk- 
warm,  then  take  the  pan  off  till  they  cold,  set  them  on  again, 
and  let  them  become  rather  hotter,  and  so  for  several  times 
till  they  become  clear,  but  the  hottest  degree  must  not  come 
to  a  boil.  When  cold  put  them  into  glasses,  and  pour  the 
sugar  over. 

Another  Way 

Take  equal  weight  of  the  fruit  and  double  refined  sugar, 
lay  the  former  in  a  large  dish,  and  sprinkle  half  the  sugar  in 
fine  powder  over,  give  gentle  shake  to  the  dish,  that  the  sugar 
may  touch  the  under  side  of  the  fruit.  Next  day  make  a  thin 
syrup  with  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  instead  of  water, 
allow  one  pint  of  red  currant  juice  to  every  three  pounds  of 
strawberries,  in  this  simmer  them  until  sufficiently  jellied. 
Choose  the  largest  scarlets,  or  others,  when  not  dead  ripe. 

Cherry  Jam 

To  twelve  pounds  of  Kentish  or  Duke  cherries  when  ripe, 
weigh  one  pound  of  sugar,  break  the  stones  of  part  and  blanch 
them,  then  put  them  to  the  fruits  and  sugar,  and  boil  all  gently 


86  The  Southern  Cookbook 


till  the  jam  comes  clear  from  the  pan.  Pour  it  into  china 
plates  to  come  up  dry  to  table.  Keep  in  boxes  with  white 
paper  between. 

Orange  Marmalade 

Rasp  the  oranges,  cut  out  the  pulp,  then  boil  the  rinds 
very  tender,  and  beat  fine  in  a  marble  mortar.  Boil  three 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water,  skim  it,  and  add  a 
pound  of  the  rind,  boil  fast  till  the  syrup  is  very  thick,  but 
stir  it  carefully,  then  put  a  pint  of  the  pulp  and  juice,  the  seeds 
having  been  removed,  and  a  pint  of  apple  liquor,  boil  all  gently 
until  well  jellied,  which  it  will  be  in  about  half  an  hour.  Put 
it  into  small  pots. 

Lemon  marmalade  do  in  the  same  way. 

Quince  Marmalade 

Pare  and  quarter  quinces,  weigh  an  equal  quanty  of  sugar, 
to  four  [pounds  of  the  latter  put  a  quart  of  water,  boil  and 
skim,  and  keep  ready  against  four  pounds  of  quinces  tol- 
erably tender  by  the  following  mode  ; — lay  them  into  a  stone 
jar,  with  a  teacup  of  water  at  the  bottom  and  pack  them  with 
a  little  sugar  strewed  between,  cover  the  jar  close,  and  set  it 
on  a  stone  or  cool  oven,  and  let  them  soften  till  the  color  be- 
come red,  then  pour  the  fruit  syrup,  and  a  quart  of  quince 
juice  into  a  preserving  pan,  and  boil  all  together  till  the  mar- 
malade be  complete,  breaking  the  lumps  of  fruit  with  the  pre- 
serving ladle.  This  fruit  is  so  hard,  that  if  not  done  as  above, 
it  requires  a  greal  deal  of  time. 

N.  B  — Stewing  quinces  in  ajar,  and  then  squeezing  them 
through  cheese  cloth,  is  the  best  method  of  obtaining  the  juice 
to  add  as  above. 

To  Dry  Cherries,  the  Best  Way 

To  every  five  pounds  of  cherries  stoned  weigh  one  of 
sugar  doubly  refined.  Put  the  fruit  into  the  preserving  pan 
with  very  little  water,  both  make  scalding  hot,  take  the  fruit 
immediately  out  and  dry  them,  put  them  into  the  pan  again, 
strewing  the  sugar  between  each  layer  of  cherries,  let  it  stand 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


87 


to  melt,  then  set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  and  make  it  scalding  hot 
as  before,  take  it  off,  and  repeat  this  thrice  with  the  sugar. 
Drain  them  from  the  syrup,  and  lay  them  singly  to  dry  on 
dishes,  in  the  sun  or  on  a  stove.  When  dry  put  them  into  a 
sieve,  dip  it  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  draw  it  instantly  out 
again,  and  pour  them  on  a  soft  cloth,  dry  them,  and  set  them 
once  more  in  the  hot  sun,  or  on  a  stove.  Keep  them  in  a  box 
with  layers  of  white  paper,  in  a  dry  place. 

This  way  is  best  to  give  plumpness  to  the  fruit,  as  well 
as  flavor. 

Observe — When  any  sweetmeats  are  directed  to  be  dried 
in  the  sun  or  in  a  stove,  it  will  be  best  in  private  families, 
where  there  is  not  a  regular  stove  for  the  purpose,  to  place 
in  the  sun  on  flag  stone,  which  reflects  the  heat,  and  place  a 
garden  glass  over  them  to  keep  the  insects  off,  or  if  put  in  an 
oven,  to  take  care  not  to  let  it  be  too  warm,  and  watch  that 
they  do  properly  and  slowly. 

Gooseberry  Jam  for  Tarts 

Put  twelve  pounds  of  red  hairy  gooseberries,  when  ripe 
and  gathered  in  dry  weather,  into  a  preserving  pan  as  for  jelly, 
let  them  boil  pretty  quick,  and  beat  them  with  a  spoon  ;  when 
they  begin  to  break,  put  to  them  six  pounds  of  pure  white  Lis- 
bon sugar,  and  simmer  slowly  to  a  jam.  It  requires  long 
boiling,  or  it  will  not  keep,  but  is  an  excellent  and  reasonable 
thing  for  tarts  and  puffs.  Look  at  it  in  two  or  three  days, 
and  if  the  syrup  and  fruit  separate,  the  whole  must  be  boiled 
longer.    Be  careful  it  does  not  burn  to  the  bottom. 

Another 

Gather  your  gooseberries,  (the  clear  white  green  sort) 
when  ripe,  top  and  tail  them,  and  weigh,  a  pound  to  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  boil 
and  skim  the  sugar  and  water,  then  put  the  fruit  in,  and  boil 
gently  till  clear,  then  break  anel  put  into  small  pots. 

White  Gooseberry  Jam 

Gather  the  finest  white  gooseberries,  or  green  if  you 
choose,  when  just  ripe  top  and  tail  them.    To  each  pound  put 


88 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of 
water,  fix  as  directed  under  article  to  clarify  sugar  then  add 
the  fruit,  simmer  gently  till  clear,  then  break  and  put  into 
small  pots. 

Barberries  for  Tartlets 

Pick  barberries  chat  have  no  stones,  from  the  stalks,  and  to 
every  pound  weigh  three  quarters  of  a  pound  lump  sugar. 
Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar  and  either  set  it  on  a  hot  hearth 
or  in  a  sauce-pan  of  water,  and  let  them  simmer  very  slowly  till 
soft,  put  them  and  the  sugar  into  a  preserving  pan  and  boil 
them  gently  fifteen  minutes.    Use  no  metal  but  silver. 

Barberry  Drops 

The  black  tops  must  be  cut  off,  then  roast  the  fruit  be- 
fore the  fire  till  soft  enough  to  pulp  with  a  silver  spoon  through 
a  sieve  into  a  china  basin,  then  set  the  basin  on  a  sauce-pan 
of  water  the  top  of  which  will  just  fit  it,  or  on  a  hot  hearth, 
.and  stir  it  till  it  grows  thick.  When  cold,  put  to  every  pint 
one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  the  finest  doubly  refined  and 
pounded  and  sifted  through  a  sieve,  which  must  be  covered 
with  a  fine  linen,  to  prevent  its  wasting  while  sifting.  Beat 
-the  sugar  and  juice  together  three  hours  and  a  half  if  a  large 
quantity,  but  two  and  a  half  for  less,  then  drop  it  on  sheets  of 
thick  white  paper,  the  size  of  the  drops  sold  in  the  shops. 

Some  fruit  is  not  so  sour,  and  then  less  sugar  is  neces- 
sary. To  know  if  there  is  enough,  mix  till  well  incorporated, 
and  then  drop,  if  it  runs  there  is  not  enough  sugar,  and  if 
there  is  too  much  it  will  be  rough.  A  dry  room  will  suffice 
to  dry  them.  No  metal  must  touch  the  juice  but  the  point  of 
a  knife,  just  to  take  the  drop  off  the  end  of  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  then  as  little  as  possible. 

Ginger  Drops,  a  Good  Stomachic 

Beat  two  ounces  of  fresh  candied  orange  in  a  mortar,  with 
a  little  sugar  to  a  paste,  then  mix  one  ounce  of  powder  of 
white  ginger  with  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Wet  the  sugar 
with  a  little  water,  and  boil  all  together  to  a  candy  and  drop 
it  on  paper  the  size  of  mint  drops. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


89 


Peppermint  Drops 

Pound  and  sift  four  ounces  of  doubly  refined  sugar,  beat 
it  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  till  smooth,  add  sixty  drops  of 
oil  of  peppermint,  beat  it  well  and  drop  on  white  paper,  and 
dry  at  a  distance  from  the  fire. 

Lemon  Drops 

Grate  three  lemons,  with  a  large  piece  of  doubly  refined 
sugar,  then  scrape  the  sugar  into  a  plate,  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  flour,  mix  well  and  beat  it  well,  into  a  light  paste,  with 
the  white  of  an  egg.  Drop  it  upon  white  paper,  and  put  them 
in  a  moderate  oven  on  a  tin  plate. 

A  Beautiful  Red,  to  Stain  Jellies,  Ices  or  Cakes 

Boil  fifteen  grains  of  cochineal  in  the  finest  powder,  with 
a  drachm  and  a  half  of  cream  of  tartar,  in  half  pint  of  water, 
very  slowly,  half  an  hour.  Add  in  boiling  a  bit  of  alum  the 
size  of  a  pea.  Or  use  beet-root  sliced,  and  some  liquor  poured 
over. 

For  white,  use  almonds  finely  powdered,  with  a  little 
drop  of  water,  or  use  cream. 

For  yellow,  yolks  of  eggs,  or  a  bit  of  saffron  steeped  in 
the  liquor  and  squeezed. 

For  green,  pound  spinach  leaves,  or  beet  leaves  ;  express 
the  juice  and  boil  a  teacupful  in  a  saucepan  of  water  to  take 
off  the  rawness. 

Damson  Cheese 

Bake  or  boil  the  fruit  in  a  stone  jar  in  a  saucepan  of 
water,  or  on  a  hot  hearth.  Pour  off  some  of  the  juice,  and  to 
every  two  pounds  of  fruit  weigh  half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Set 
the  fruit  over  the  fire  in  the  pan,  let  it  boil  quickly  till  it 
begins  to  look  dry,  take  out  the  stones  and  add  the  sugar,  stir 
it  in  well  and  simmer  two  hours  slowly,  then  boil  it  quickly 
half  an  hour,  till  the  sides  of  the  pan  candy,  pour  the  jam 
then  into  potting-pans  or  dishes  about  an  inch  thick,  so  that 
it  may  cut  firm  ;  if  the  skins  be  disliked,  then  the  juice  is  not 
to  be  taken  out,  but  after  the  first  process,  the  fruit  is  to  be 


90 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


pulped  through  a  new  very  coarse  sieve  with  the  juice,  and. 
managed  as  above.  The  stones  are  to  be  cracked,  or  some  of 
them,  and  the  kernels  boiled  in  the  jam  All  the  juice  may 
be  left  in  and  boiled  to  evaporate,  but  do  not  add  the  sugar 
until  it  has  done  so. 

The  above  looks  well  in  shapes. 

Biscuit  of  Fruit 

To  the  pulp  of  any  scalded  fruit,  put  equal  weight  of 
sugar  sifted,  beat  it  two  hours,  then  put  it  into  little  white 
paper  forms,  dry  in  a  cool  oven,  turn  the  next  day,  and  in  two 
or  three  days  box  them. 

Magum  Plums,  Excellent  as  a  Sweetmeat,   or  in  Tarts,  Though  Very- 
Bad  to  Eat  Raw 

Prick  them  with  a  needle,  to  prevent  bursting,  simmer 
them  very  gently  in  a  thin  syrup,  put  them  in  a  china  bowl, 
and  when  cold  pour  it  over,  let  them  lay  three  days,  then 
make  a  syrup  of  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  five  of  fruit,  with 
no  more  water  than  hangs  to  large  lumps  of  the  sugar  dipped 
quickly,  and  instantly  brought  out.  Boil  the  plums  in  this 
fresh  syrup  after  draining  the  first  from  them.  Do  them 
very  gently  till  they  are  clear,  and  the  syrup  adheres  to  them. 
Put  them  one  by  one  into  small  pots,  and  pour  the  liquor 
over.  Those  you  may  like  to  dry,  keep  a  little  of  the  syrup 
for,  longer  in  the  pan,  and  boil  it  quickly,  then  give  the  fruit 
one  more  warm,  drain  and  put  them  to  dry  on  plates  in  a  cool 
oven.  These  plums  are  apt  to  ferment  if  not  boiled  in  two 
syrups,  the  former  will  sweeten  pies,  but  will  have  too  much 
acid  to  keep.  You  may  reserve  part  of  it,  and  add  a  little 
sugar  to  do  those  that  are.  to  dry,  for  they  will  not  require  to 
be  sweet,  as  if  kept  wet,  and  will  eat  very  nicely,  if  only 
boiled  as  much  as  those.  Do  not  break  them.  One  parcel 
may  be  done  after  another,  and  save  much  sugar. 

To  Preserve  Grapes  in  Brandy 

Put  some  close  bunches,  when  ripe,  but  not  over  ready, 
into  a  jar,  strew  over  them  half  of  their  weight  in  white  sugar 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


91 


candy  pounded,  prick  each  grape,  once  with  a  needle,  fill  up 
with  brandy,  and  tie  close.    They  look  beautiful  in  a  dessert. 

Gooseberry  Hops 

Of  the  largest  green  walnut  kind,  take  and  cut  the  bud 
end  in  four  quarters,  leaving  the  stalk  ends  whole,  pick  out 
the  seeds,  and  with  a  strong  needle  and  thread,  fasten  five  or 
six  together,  by  running  the  thread  through  the  bottoms,  till 
they  are  the  size  of  a  hop,  lay  nine  leaves  at  the  bottom  of 
the  preserving  pan,  cover  them  with  the  hops,  then  a  layer  of 
leaves,  and  so  on,  lay  a  good  many  on  the  top,  then  fill  the 
pan  with  water.  Stop  it  so  close  down  that  no  steam  can 
get  out,  set  it  by  a  slow  fire  till  scalding  hot,  then  take  it  off 
till  cold,  and  so  do  till  on  opening  while  cold,  the  gooseberries 
are  of  a  good  green.  Then  drain  them  on  sieves,  and  make  a 
thin  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water,  boil  and 
skim  it  well,  when  half  cold,  put  in  the  fruit,  next  day  give  it 
one  boil,  do  this  thrice.  If  the  hops  are  to  be  dried,  which 
way  they  eat  best,  and  look  well,  they  may  be  set  to  dry  in  a 
week,  but  if  to  keep  wet  make  a  syrup  in  the  above  propor- 
tions, adding  a  slice  of  ginger  in  boiling,  when  skimmed  and 
clear,  give  the  gooseberries  one  boil,  and  when  cold,  pour  it 
over  them.  If  the  first  syrup  be  found  too  sour,  a  little  sugar 
may  be  added  and  boiled  in  it,  before  the  hops  that  are  for 
drying  have  their  best  boil. 

The  extra  syrup  will  serve  for  pies,  or  go  toward  other 
sweetmeats. 

A  Caramel  Cover  for  Sweetmeats 

Dissolve  eight  ounces  of  double  refined  sugar  in  three  or 
four  spoonfuls  of  water,  and  three  or  four  drops  of  lemon 
juice,  then  put  into  a  copper  untinned  skillet,  when  it  boils  to 
be  thick,  dip  the  handle  of  a  spoon  in  it,  and  put  that  into  a 
pint  basin  of  water,  squeeze  the  sugar  from  the  spoon  into  it, 
and  so  on,  till  you  have  all  the  sugar.  Take  a  bit  out  of  the 
water,  and  if  it  snaps,  and  is  brittle  when  cold,  it  is  done 
enough,  but  only  let  it  be  three  parts  cold,  then  pour  the 
water  from  the  sugar,  and  having  a  copper  form  oiled  well 


92 


The  Sou  the *rn  Cookbook 


run  the  sugar  on  it,  in  the  manner  of  a  maze,  and  when  cold, 
you  may  put  it  on  the  dish  it  is  to  cover,  but  if  on  trial 
the  sugar  is  not  brittle,  pour  off  the  water,  and  return  it  into 
the  skillet  and  boil  again  ;  it  should  look  thick  like  treacle,  but 
of  a  bright,  light  good  color. 
It  is  a  most  elegant  cover. 

Transparent  Marmalade 

Cut  the  palest  Seville  oranges  in  quarters,  take  the  pulp 
out,  and  put  it  in  a  basin,  pick  out  the  seeds  and  skins,  let 
the  outside  soak  in  water  with  a  little  salt  all  night,  then  boil 
them  in  a  good  quantity  of  spring  water  till  tender,  drain  and 
cut  them  in  very  thin  slices,  and  put  them  to  the  pulp,  and 
to  every  pound,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double  refined  sugar 
beaten  fine,  boil  them  together  twenty  minutes,  but  be 
careful  not  to  break  the  slices  ;  if  not  quite  clear,  simmer 
five  or  six  minutes  longer.  It  must  be  stirred  all  the  time 
very  gently. 

When  cold  put  it  into  glasses. 

To  Preserve  Lemons  or  Oranges  in  Jelly 

Cut  a  hole  in  the  stalk  part,  the  size  of  a  shilling,  and 
with  a  blunt  small  knife  scrape  out  the  pulp  quite  clear  with- 
out cutting  the  rind.  Tie  each  separately  in  muslin,  and  lay 
them  in  spring  water  two  days,  changing  twice  a  day,  in  the 
last  boil  them  tender  on  a  slow  fire.  Observe  that  there  is 
enough  at  first  to  allow  for  wasting,  as  they  must  be  covered 
to  the  last.  To  every  pound  of  oranges,  weigh  two  pounds  of 
double  refined  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  water,  boil  the  two  latter 
together  with  the  juice  of  the  orange  to  a  syrup  and  clarify  it, 
skim  well,  and  let  it  stand  to  be  cold,  then  boil  the  fruit  in 
the  syrup  half  an  hour;  if  no:  clear,  do  this  daily  till  they  are 
done. 

Pare  and  core  some  green  pippins,  and  boil  in  water  till 
it  tastes  strong  of  them,  do  not  break  them,  only  gently  press 
them  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Strain  the  water  through  a 
jelly  bag  till  quite  clear,  then  to  every  pint  put  a  pound  of 
double  refined  sugar,  the  peel  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  boil 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


93 


to  a  strong  syrup.  Drain  off  the  syrup  for  the  fruit  and 
turning  the  whole  upwards  in  the  jar,  pour  the  apple  jelly 
over  it.  The  bits  cut  out,  must  go  through  the  same  process 
with  the  fruit.    Cover  with  brandy  pepper. 

Orange  Chips 

Cut  oranges  in  halves,  squeeze  the  juice  through  the 
sieve,  soak  the  peel  in  water,  next  day  boil  in  the  same  till 
tender,  drain  them,  and  slice  the  peels,  put  them  to  the  juice, 
weigh  as  much  sugar,  and  put  all  together  into  a  broad 
earthen  dish,  and  put  over  the  fire  at  a  moderate  distance, 
often  stirring  till  the  chips  candy,  then  set  them  in  a  cool 
room  to  dry.    They  will  not  be  so  under  three  weeks. 

Orange  Cakes 

Cut  Seville  oranges  in  pieces,  take  out  the  seeds  and 
skins,  save  the  juice,  and  add  to  the  meat  of  the  fruit  after 
having  beaten  it  quite  fine  in  a  mortar,  in  the  proportion  of  a 
pound  to  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  finely  beaten  first. 
When  the  paste  is  finely  mixed  make  it  into  small  cakes,  and 
dry  them  on  china  plates  in  a  hot  room,  and  turn  them  daily. 
Do  not  let  them  be  too  dry.  They  are  excellent  for  gouty 
stomachs,  or  for  travellers. 

The  peels  of  China  oranges,  soaked  a  night,  then  drained 
and  boiled  up  in  a  syrup  till  enough  to  be  tender,  answer  for 
common  puddings  extremely  well,  and  are  of  no  value,  where- 
as Sevilles  are  usually  dear,  and  sometimes  cannot  be  had. 

Another 

Put  to  the  water,  apiece  of  lemon-pcel,  mix  the  crumbs  in 
and  when  nearly  boiled  enough,  put  some  lemon  or  orange 
syrup.  Observe  to  boil  all  the  ingredients,  for  if  any  be  added 
after,  the  panada  will  break,  and  not  jelly. 

Barley  Water 

Boil  an  ounce  of  pearl  barley  a  few  minutes  to  cleanse, 
then  put  on  a  quart  of  water,  simmer  one  hour,  when  half 
done,  put  into  it  a  bit  of  fresh  lemon-peel  and  a  bit  of  sugar. 
If  likely  to  be  too  thick,  you  may  put  another  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  water. 


94 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Common  Barley  Water 

Wash  a  handful  of  common  barley,  then  simmer  it  gently 
in  three  pints  of  water  in  a  little  lemon-peel. 

This  is  less  apt  to  nauseate  than  pearl  barley,  but  the 
former  is  a  very  pleasant  drink. 

A    Very  Agreeble  Drink 

Into  a  glass  of  fresh  cold  water  pour  a  tablespoonful  of 
capillarie  and  the  same  of  vinegar. 

Lemon  Water,   a  Delightful  Drink 

Put  two  slices  of  lemon  thinly  pared  into  a  teapot,  and  a 
little  bit  of  the  peel,  and  a  bit  of  sugar,  or  a  large  spoonful  of 
capillaire,  pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  stop  close. 

Apple  Water 

Cut  two  large  apples  in  slices,  and  pour  a  quart  of  boiling 
water  on  them,  or  on  roasted  apples. 

Tamarinds,  currants,  fresh  or  in  jelly,  or  scalded,  currants 
or  cranberries,  make  excellent  drinks  with  a  little  sugar  or  not, 
as  may  be  agreeble. 

Toast  and  Water 

Toast  slowly  a  thin  piece  of  bread  till  extremely  brown 
and  hard,  but  not  the  least  black,  then  plunge  it  into  a  jug  of 
cold  water,  and  cover  it  over  an  hour  before  used. 

Orangeade,  or  Lemonade 

Squeeze  the  juice,  pour  boiling  water  on  a  little  of  the 
peel  and  cover  close.  Boil  water  and  sugar  to  a  thin  syrup, 
and  skim  it.  When  all  are  cold,  mix  the  juice,  the  infusion, 
and  the  syrup,  with  as  much  more  water  as  will  make  a  rich 
sherbet,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  or  add  water  and  capil- 
laire. 

Orgeat 

Beat  two  ounces  of  almonds  with  a  teaspoonful  of  orange- 
flower  water,  and  a  bitter  almond  or  two,  then  pour  a  quart 
of  milk  and  water  to  the  paste.  Sweeten  with  sugar  or 
capillaire. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


95 


Milk  Porridge 

Make  a  fine  gruel  of  half  grits,  long  boiled,  strain  off, 
either  add  cold  milk,  or  warm  with  milk,  as  may  be  approved. 
Serve  with  toast. 

French  Milk  Porridge 

Stir  some  oatmeal  and  water  together,  let  it  stand  to  be 
clear,  and  pour  off  the  batter,  pour  fresh  upon  it,  stir  it  well, 
let  it  stand  till  next  day,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  and  boil 
the  water,  adding  milk  while  doing.  The  proportion  of  water 
must  be  small.  This  is  much  ordered,  with  toast,  for  the 
breakfast  of  weak  persons,  abroad. 

Caudle 

Make  a  fine  smooth  gruel  of  half  grits,  strain  it  when 
boiled  well,  stir  it  at  times  till  cold.  When  to  be  used,  add 
sugar,  wine  and  lemon-peel  with  nutmeg;  some  like  a  spoonful 
of  brandy  beside  the  wine. 

Another  Caudle 

Boil  up  half  a  pint  of  fine  gruel,  with  a  bit  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  large  nutmeg,  a  large  spoonful  of  brandy,  the  same 
of  white  wine,  one  of  capillaire,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel  and  nutmeg. 

Rice  Caudle 

When  the  water  boils,  pour  it  into  some  grated  rice, 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  water,  when  of  a  proper  consistency 
add  sugar,  lemon-peel  and  cinnamon,  and  a  glass  of  brandy  to 
a  quart.    Boil  all  smooth. 

Cold  Caudle 

Boil  a  quart  of  spring  water,  when  cold  add  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon,  six  spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine, 
sugar  to  your  taste,  and  syrup  of  lemons  one  ounce. 

A  Refreshing  Drink  in  a  Favor 

Put  a  little  tea-sage,  two  springs  of  balm,  and  a  little 
wood  sorrel  into  a  stone  jug,  having  first  washed  and  dried 
them;  peel  thin  a  small  lemon  and  clear  from  the  white,  slice  it, 
and  put  a  bit  of  the  peel  in,  then  pour  in  three  pints  of  boil- 
ing water,  sweeten  and  cover  it  close. 


96 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Another  Drink 

Wash  extremely  well  an  ounce  of  pearl  barley,  shift  it 
twice,  then  put  to  it  three  pints  of  water,  an  ounce  of  sweet 
almonds  beaten  fine,  and  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  boil  till  you  have 
a  smooth  liquor,  then  put  in  a  little  syrup  of  lemon  and 
capillaire. 

Another  Drink 

Boil  three  pints  of  water  with  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
tamarinds,  three  ounces  of  stoned  raisins,  till  near  a  third  be 
consumed.    Strain  it. 

A  Most  Pleasant  Drink 

Put  a  teacup  full  of  cranberries  into  a  cup  of  water,  and 
mash  them.  In  the  meantime  boil  two  quarts  and  a  pint  of 
water  with  one  large  spoonful  of  oatmeal,  and  a  very  large  bit 
of  lemon-peel,  then  add  the  cranberries  and  as  much  fine 
Lisbon  sugar  as  shall  leave  a  smart  flavor  of  the  fruit,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  sherry  or  less,  as  may  be  proper;  boil  all 
for  half  an  hour  and  strain  off. 

Whey 

That  of  cheese  is  a  very  wholesome  drink,  especially 
when  the  cows  are  in  fresh  herbage. 

White  Wine  Whey 

Put  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  on  the  fire,  the  moment  it 
boils  up,  pour  in  as  much  sound  raisin  wine  as  will  completely 
turn  it,  and  it  looks  clear,  let  it  boil  up,  then  set  the  saucepan 
aside  till  the  curd  subsides,  and  not  stir  it.  Pour  the  whey 
off,  and  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  a  bit  of 
white  sugar. 

Thus  you  will  have  a  whey  perfectly  cleared  of  milky 
particles,  as  weak  as  you  choose  to  make  it. 

Vinegar  or  Lemon  Wheys 

Pour  into  boiling  milk  as  above,  and  when  clear,  dilute 
with  boiling  water,  and  put  a  bit  or  two  of  sugar. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


97 


Egg  Wine 

Beat  an  egg,  mix  it  with  a  spoonful  of  cold  water,  set  on 
the   fire  a   glass  of  white  wine,   half  a  glass  of  water  and 

sugar,  and  nutmeg.    When  it  boils,  pour  a  little  of  it  to  the 

egg  by  degrees,  till  the  whole  be  in,  stirring  it  well,  then 

return  the  whole  into  the  saucepan,  put  it  on  a  gentle  fire,  stir 

it  one  way  for  not   more  than  a  minute,  for  if  it  boils,  or  the 

egg  be  stale,  it  will  curdle.    Serve  with  toast. 

Egg  wine  may  be  made  as  above  without  warming  the 

egg,  and  it  is  lighter  on  the  stomach,  though  not  so  pleasant 

to  the  taste. 

An  egg  broken  into  a  cup  of  tea,  or  beaten  and  mixed 
with  a  basin  of  milk,  makes  a  breakfast  more  supporting 
than  tea. 

An  egg  divided,  and  the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separ- 
ately, then  mixed  with  a  glass  of  wine,  will  afford  two  very 
wholesome  draughts,  and  prove  lighter  than  when  taken 
together. 

Eggs  very  little  boiled  or  poached,  taken  in  a  small 
quantity,  convey  much  nourishment. 

The  following  is  a  particularly  soft  and  fine  draught  to 
be  taken  the  first  and  last  thing,  by  those  who  are  weak,  and 
have  a  cough. 

Beat  a  fresh  laid  egg,  and  mix  it  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  new  milk  warmed,  a  large  spoonful  of  capillaire,  the  same 
of  rose-water,  and  a  little  nutmeg  scraped.  Do  not  warm 
after  the  egg  is  put  in. 

Chocolate 

Those  who  may  use  much  of  this  article,  will  find  the 
following  mode  of  preparing  both  useful  and  economical. 

Cut  a  cake  of  chocolate  in  very  small  bits,  put  a  pint  of 
water  into  the  pot,  and  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  above.  Keep  it 
on  the  fire  until  quite  melted,  then  on  a  gentle  fire  until  it 
boils,  pour  into  a  basin,  and  it  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  eight 
or  ten  days  or  more.  When  wanted  put  a  spoonful  or  two 
into  milk,  boil  it  with  sugar,  and  mix  it  well. 

This,  if  not  made  thick,  is  a  very  good  breakfast  or  supper 
drink.  '■ 

(7) 


oS 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


To  Make  Coffee 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  ground  coffee  of  the  best  quality 
into  a  coffee  pot,  and  pour  eight  coffee  cups  of  boiling  water 
on  it.  let  it  boil  six  minutes,  pour  out  a  cupful  two  or  three 
times,  and  return  it  again,  then  put  two  or  three  isinglass 
chips  into  it,  and  pour  one  large  spoonful  of  boiling  water  on 
it,  boil  it  five  minutes  more,  and  set  the  pot  by  the  fire,  to 
keep  hot  ten  minutes,  and  you  will  have  coffee  of  a  beautiful 
clearness. 

Fine  cream  should  always  be  served  with  coffee,  and 
either  pounded  sugar  candy,  or  fine  Libson  sugar. 

If  for  foreigners,  or  those  who  like  it  exceedingly  strong, 
make  onlv  eight  dishes  from  three  ounces.  If  not  fresh 
roasted  lav  it  before  a  hre  until  perfectly  hot  and  dry,  or  you 
may  put  the  smallest  bit  of  fresh  butter  into  a  preserving  pan 
of  a  small  size,  and  when  hot,  throw  the  coffee  in  it, 'and  toss 
it  about  until  it  be  freshened. 

Coffee  Milk 

Boil  a  dessert  spoonful  of  ground  coffee,  in  nearly  a 
pint  of  milk,  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put  into  it  a  shaving 
or  two  of  isinglass  and  clear  it.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes, 
and  set  it  on  the  side  of  the  fire  to  grow  fine. 

This  is  a  very  fine  breakfast  drink,  it  should  be  sweetened 
with  real  Lisbon  sugar  of  a  good  quality. 

Ground  Rice  Milk 

Boil  one  spoonful  of  ground  rice,  rubbed  down  smooth, 
with  three  half  pints  of  milk,  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  lemon-peel, 
and  nutmeg.    Sweeten  when  near  done. 

Tapioca  Jelly 

Choose  the  largest  sort,  pour  cold  water  on  to  wash  it 
two  or  three  times,  then  soak  it  in  fresh  water  five  or  six 
hours,  and  simmer  it  in  the  same  until  it  becomes  quite  clear, 
then  put  lemon  juice,  wine  and  sugar.  The  peel  should  have 
been  boiled  in  it.    It  thickens  very  much. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


99 


»  Sago 

To  prevent  the  earthy  taste,  soak  it  in  cold  water  an  hour, 
pour  that  off,  and  wash  it  well,  then  add  more,  and  simmer 
gently  till  the  berries  are  clear,  with  lemon-peel  and  spice  if 
approved.    Add  sugar  and  wine,  and  boil  all  up  together. 

Sago  Milk 

Cleanse  as  above,  and  boil  it  slowly  and  wholly  with  new 
milk.  It  swells  so  much  that  a  small  quantity  will  be  suf- 
ficient for  a  quart,  and  when  done,  it  will  be  diminished  to 
about  a  pint.    It  requires  no  sugar,  or  flavoring. 

Arrowroot  Jelly 

Of  this  beware  of  having  the  wrong  sort,  for  it  has  been 
counterfeited  with  bad  effect. 

Mix  a  large  spoonful  of  the  powder  with  a  teacupful  of 
cold  water  by  degrees,  and  quite  smooth.  Put  rather  more 
than  a  pint  of  water  over  the  fire,  with  some  white  sugar, 
scraped  nutmeg,  and  a  spoonful  and  a  half  or  two  of  brandy. 
The  moment  it  boils,  pour  the  powder  and  water  in,  stirring 
it  well,  and  when  it  boils  up  it  is  done. 

This  is  a  very  useful  thing  in  a  house  and  in  the  above 
mode,  a  sick  person  may  be  supplied  with  a  fine  supporting 
meal  in  a  few  minutes. 

This  and  the  following  are  particularly  good  in  bowel 
complaints. 

A  Flour  Caudle 

Into  five  large  spoonfuls  of  the  purest  water,  rub  smooth 
one  dessert  spoonful  of  fine  flour.  Set  over  the  fire  five 
spoonfuls  of  new  milk,  and  put  two  bits  of  sugar  into  it,  the 
moment  it  boils,  pour  into  it  the  flour  and  water,  and  stir  it 
over  a  slow  fire  twenty  minutes. 

A  Rice  Caudle 

Soak  some  Carolina  rice  in  water  an  hour,  strain  it,  and 
put  two  spoonfuls  of  the  rice  into  a  pint  and  a  quarter  of 
milk,  simmer  till  it  will  pulp  through  a  sieve,  then  put  the 


100 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


pulp  and  milk  into  the  saucepan,  with  a  bruised  clove,  and  a 
bit  of  white  sugar.  Simmer  ten  minutes,  if  too  thick,  add 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  milk,  and  serve  with  thin  toast. 

Ass's  Milk 

Far  surpassing  any  imitation  of  it  that  can  be  made.  It 
should  be  milked  into  a  glass  that  is  kept  warm  by  being  in  a 
basin  of  hot  water. 

The  fixed  air  that  it  contains  gives  some  people  a  pain  in 
the  stomach. 

At  first  a  teaspoonful  of  rum  may  be  taken  with  it,  but 
should  only  be  put  in  the  moment  it  is  to  be  swallowed. 

Artificial  Ass's  Milk 

Boil  together  a  quart  of  water,  a  quart  of  new  milk,  an 
ounce  of  wiiite  sugar  candy,  half  an  ounce  of  ering  root,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  conserve  of  roses,  till  half  be  wasted. 

This  is  astringent,  therefore  proportion  the  doses  to  the 
effect. 

Another 

Mix  two  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  two  of  milk  and  an 
egg  well  beaten,  sweeten  with  pounded  white  sugar  candy. 
This  may  be  taken  twice  or  thrice  a  day. 

Another 

Boil  two  ounces  of  hartshorn  shavings,  two  ounces  of 
pearl  barley,  two  ounces  of  ering  root,  and  one  dozen  of 
snails  that  have  been  bruised,  in  two  quarts  of  water  to  one. 
Mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  new  milk  when  taken,  twice 
a  day. 

Buttermilk  with  Bread  or  without 

It  is  most  wholesome  when  sour,  as  being  less  likely 
to  be  heavy  but  most  agreeable  when  made  of  sweet  cream. 

Dr.  B  oerneave's  Sweet  Buttermilk 

Take  the  milk  from  the  cow  into  a  small  churn,  in  about 
ten  minutes  begin  churning,  and  continue  until  the  flakes  of 
butter  swim  about  pretty  thick,  and  the  milk  is  discharged 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


IOI 


of  all  the  greasy  particles,  and  appears  thin  and  blue.  Strain 
it  through  a  sieve,  and  drink  it  as  frequently  as  possible.  It 
should  form  the  whole  of  the  patient's  drink,  and  the  food 
should  be  biscuit  and  rusks  in  every  wa)  and  sort,  ripe  and 
dried  fruits  of  various  kinds  when  a  decline  is  apprehended. 

Baked  and  dried  fruits,  raisins  in  particular,  make  excel- 
lent suppers  for  invalids,  with  biscuit  or  common  cake. 

When  the  Stomach  Will  not  Receive  Meat 

On  an  extreme  hot  plate  put  two  or  three  sippets  of 
bread,  and  pour  over  them  some  gravy  from  beef,  mutton  or 
veal,  if  there  is  not  butter  in  the  dish.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt 
over. 

This  is  much  lighter  than  meat,  and  conveys  a  great  deal 
of  nourishment  in  a  small  form. 

Toast  hard  and  dry  a  thin  bit  of  bread,  soak  it  in  water, 
take  it  out  and  sift  a  little  sugar,  and  nutmeg  if  you  like  it. 
Or  pour  boiling  water  over  a  captain's  biscuit,  broken  in 
pieces,  and  steam  it  down  in  a  basin,  when  soft,  add  a  little 
strong  souchong  tea,  cream,  and  sugar,  or  wine,  sugar  and 
nutmeg,  or  a  teacupful  of  weak  rum,  or  brandy  and  water, 
with  sugar,  just  to  give  taste. 

Saloop 

Boil  a  little  water  with  wine,  lemon-peel  and  sugar  to- 
gether, then  mix  with  a  small  quantity  of  the  powder,  previ- 
ously rubbed  smooth,  with  a  little  cold  water;  stir  it  all  to- 
gether, and  boil  it  a  few  minutes. 

To  Make  Yeast 

Thicken  two  quarts  of  water  with  fine  flour,  about  three 
spoonfuls,  boil  half  an  hour,  sweeten  with  half  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  when  near  cold  put  it  into  four  spoonfuls  of 
fresh  yeast,  in  a  jug,  shake  it  well  together,  and  let  stand  one 
day  to  ferment  near  the  fire,  without  being  covered.  There 
will  be  a  thin  liquor  on  the  top  which  must  be  poured  off ; 
shake  the  remainder,  and  cork  it  up  for  use.  Take  always 
four  spoonfuls  of  the  old  to  ferment  the  next  quantity,  keep- 
ing it  always  in  succession. 


102 


The  Son  t tier n  Cookbook 


Another  Way 

Boil  one  pound  of  potatoes  to  a  mash,  when  half  cold  add 
a  cupful  of  yeast,  and  mix  it  well,  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in 
two  or  three  hours  and  keep  well. 

Use  a  double  quantity  of  this  to  what  you  do  of  beer 
yeast. 

To  take  off  the  bitter  of  yeast,  put  bran  into  a  sieve,  and 
pour  it  through. 

To  Preserve  Yeast 

When  you  have  plenty  of  yeast  begin  to  save  it  in  the 
following  manner  :  whisk  it  until  it  becomes  thin,  then  get  a 
large  wooden  dish,  wash  it  very  nicelv,  and  when  quite  dry, 
lay  a  layer  of  yeast  over  the  inside  with  a  soft  brush,  let  it 
dry,  then  put  another  layer  in  the  same  manner,  and  so  do 
until  you  have  a  sufficient  quantity,  observing  that  each  coat 
dries  thoroughly  before  another  be  added.  It  may  be  put  on 
two  or  three  inches  thick,  and  will  keep  several  months;  when 
to  be  used  cut  a  piece  out,  and  stir  it  in  warm  water. 

If  to  be  used  for  brewing,  keep  it  by  clipping  large  hand- 
fuls  of  birch  tied  together,  and  when  dry,  repeat  the  dipping 
once.  You  may  thus  do  as  many  as  you  please,  but  take  care 
that  no  dust  comes  to  them,  or  the  vessel  in  which  it  has  been 
prepared  as  before.  When  the  wort  be  set  to  work  throw  in- 
to it  one  of  these  bunches,  and  it  will  do  as  well  as  with  a 
small  quantitv  first  and  then  added  to  the  whole  ;  it  will  work 
sooner. 

To   Pot  Cheese 

/ 

Cut  and  pound  four  ounces  of  Cheshire  cheese,  one  ounce 
and  a  half  of  fine  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pounded 
sugar,  a  little  bit  of  mace,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine,  press  it 
down  in  a  deep  pot. 

To  Roast   Cheese   to   Come  up  After  Dinner 

Grate  three  ounces  of  fat  Cheshire  cheese,  mix  it  with  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  four  ounces  of  grated  bread,  and  four 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


103 


ounces  of  butter,  beat  the  whole  well  in  a  mortar  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Toast  some 
bread,  lay  the  paste,  as  above,  thick  upon  it,  put  it  in  a  Dutch 
oven,  covered  with  a  dish  till  hot  through,  remove  the  dish 
and  let  the  cheese  brown  a  little. 
Serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

To  Poach  Eggs 

Set  a  stewpan  of  water  on  the  fire,  when  boiling  slip  an 
egg  previously  broken  into  a  cup,  into  the  water,  when  the 
white  looks  done  enough,  slide  an  egg  slicer  under  the  egg, 
and  lay  on  toast  and  butter,  or  spinach.  As  soon  as  enough 
are  done,  serve  hot. 

Little   Short  Cakes 

Rub  into  a  pound  of  dried  flour,  four  ounces  of  butter, 
four  ounces  of  white  powdered  sugar,  one  egg,  and  a  spoonful 
or  two  of  thin  cream  to  make  into  a  paste.  'W  hen  mixed  put 
the  currants  into  one  half,  and  the  caraways  into  the  rest. 
Cut  them  as  before  and  bake  on  tins. 

The  servants  of  each  country  are  generally  acquainted 
with  the  best  mode  of  managing  the  butter  and  cheese  of  that 
country,  but  the  following  hints  may  not  be  unacceptable  to 
give  information  to  the  mistress. 

DAIRY 

The  greatest  possible  attention  must  be  paid  to  cleanli- 
ness. All  the  utensils  must  be  daily  scalded,  and  brushed, 
washed  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  dried  with  clean  cloths,  and 
turned  up  in  the  air.  The  dairy  should  be  kept  perfectly 
clean  and  cool. 

In  milking,  if  the  cows  be  not  left  perfectly  dry,  the 
quantity  will  be  decreased.  The  quantity  depends  on  the 
goodness  of  different  cows,  on  the  pastures,  and  on  the  length 
of  time  from  calving.  A  middling  cow  gives  a  pound  of  but- 
ter a  day  for  five  or  six  weeks,  and  sometimes  longer.  When 
the  milk  decreases  a  change  even  in  a  worse  pasture  will 
effect  an  alteration,  and  where  water  is  within  reach  of  the 
animals,  it  is  of  great  consequence  to  the  milk. 


104 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


The  chief  of  the  cows  should  come  in  the  end  of  March, 
or  the  beginning  of  April,  and  one  the  end  of  September,  then 
the  family  will  be  supplied  with  milk  in  the  winter 

When  a  calf  is  to  be  reared,  it  should  be  taken  from  the 
cow  in  a  week  at  furthest,  or  it  will  cause  great  trouble  in 
rearing,  because  it  will  be  difficult  to  make  it  take  milk  in  a 
pan.  The  calf  should  be  taken  from  the  cow  in  the  morning 
and  kept  without  food  till  next  morning,  wThen  being  hungry, 
it  will  take  it  without  much  trouble.  Skimmed  milk  made  as 
warm  as  new,  is  to  be  given  twice  a  day  in  such  quantities  as 
it  shall  require,  and  if  milk  runs  short,  a  fine  smooth  gruel 
mixed  with  it  will  do  very  well.  This  is  to  be  continued  till 
the  calf  be  taken  out  to  graze,  which  at  first  will  be  only  by 
day  ;  the  milk  must  be  given  when  housed  in  the  evening. 

To  Scald  Cream 

In  winter  the  milk  stands  twenty-four  hours  before  scald- 
ed, in  summer  twelve.  The  milk  pan  is  to  be  put  on  a  hot 
hearth  if  you  have  one.  It  must  remain  on  the  fire  till  quite 
hot,  on  no  account  boil,  or  there  will  be  a  skin  instead  of 
cream  upon  the  milk.  You  will  know  when  done  enough  by 
the  undulations  on  the  surf  ace,  and  looking  quite  thick.  The 
time  required  to  scald  cream  depends  on  the  size  of  the  pan 
and  the  heat  of  the  fire,  the  slower  the  better;  remove  the  pan 
into  the  dairy  when  done,  and  skim  it  next  day.  Of  cream 
thus  prepared,  the  butter  is  usually  made  in  Devonshire,  etc. 

Buttermilk 

If  made  of  sweet  cream,  is  a  delicious  and  most  whole- 
some food.  Those  who  can  relish  sour  buttermilk  find  it  still 
more  light,  and  it  is  reckoned  more  beneficial  in  some  cases. 

To   Cure  Mawskins  for  Rennet 

Cut  the  calf's  stomach  open,  rub  it  well  with  salt,  let  it 
hang  to  drain  two  days,  then  salt  it  well,  and  let  it  be  in  that 
pickle  a  month  or  more,  then  take  it  out,  drain,  and  flour  it, 
stretch  it  out  with  a  stick,  let  it  hang  up  to  dry. 

A  piece  of  this  is  to  be  soaked,  and  kept  to  turn  the  milk 
in  cheese-making  time. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


105 


Some  lands  make  cheese  of  a  better  quality  than  the 
butter  produced  in  them  is  ;  when  the  soil  is  poor,  the  cheese 
will  want  fat,  to  remedy  which,  after  pressing"  the  whey  from 
the  curd,  crumble  it  quite  small,  and  work  into  it  a  pound  of 
fine  fresh  butter,  then  press,  etc.  as  usual. 

Cream  Cheese 

Put  five  quarts  of  strippings,  that  is  the  last  of  the  milk, 
into  a  pan,  with  two  spoonfuls  of  rennet.  When  the  cind  is 
come,  strike  it  down  two  or  three  times  with  a  skimming- 
dish,  just  to  break  it,  set  it  to  stand  two  hours,  then  spread  a 
cheese  cloth  on  a  sieve,  put  the  curd  on  it,  and  let  the  whey 
drain,  break  the  curd  a  little  with  your  hand,  and  put  it  into 
a  vat  with  a  two-pound  weight  upon  it.  Let  it  stand  two 
hours,  take  it  out,  and  bind  afillet  around.  Turn  every  day 
till  dry,  from  one  board  to  another,  cover  them  with  nettles, 
or  clean  dock  leaves,  and  put  between  two  pewter  plates  to 
ripen.  If  the  weather  is  warm,  it  will  be  ready  in  three 
weeks. 

Another 

Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  put  five  quarts  of 
new  milk  into  a  pan,  and  five  pints  of  cold  water,  and  five  of 
hot  ;  when  of  a  proper  heat,  put  in  as  much  rennet  as  will 
bring  it  in  twenty  minutes,  likewise  a  bit  of  sugar;  when 
it  comes,  strike  the  skimmer  three  or  four  times  down  and 
leave  it  on  the  curd.  In  an  hour  or  two  lay  it,  into  the  vat 
without  touching  it,  put  a  two-pound  weight  on  it  when  the 
whey  has  run  from  it,  and  the  vat  is  full. 

Another  Sort 

Put  as  much  salt  to  three  pints  of  raw  cream  as  shall 
season  it,  stir  it  well,  and  pour  it  into  a  sieve  in  which  you 
have  folded  a  cheese-cloth  three  or  four  times  and  laid  at  the 
bottom.  When  it  hardens,  cover  it  with  nettles  on  a  pewter 
plate. 

Rush  Cream  Cheese 

To  a  quart  of  fresh  cream,  put  a  pint  of  new  milk  warm 
enough  to  make  the  cream  a  proper  warmth,  a  bit  of  sugar 
and  a  little  rennet. 


io6 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Set  near  the  fire  till  the  curd  comes,  fill  a  vat  made  in  the 
form  of  a  brick  of  wheat  straw,  or  rushes  sewed  together. 
Have  ready  a  square  of  straw,  or  rushes  sewed  flat  to  rest  the 
vat  on,  and  another  to  cover  it,  the  vat  being  open  at  top 
and  bottom.  Next  day  take  it  out,  and  change  it  as  above  to 
ripen.    A  half-pound  weight  will  be  sufficient  to  put  on  it. 

Another  Way- 
Take  a  pint  of  very  thick  sour  cream  from  the  top  of  the 
pan  gathering  for  butter,  lay  a  napkin  on  two  plates,  and  pour 
half  into  each,  let  them  stand  twelve  hours,  then  put  them  on 
a  fresh  wet  napkin  in  one  place,  and  cover  with  the  same,  this 
do  every  twelve  hours  until  you  rind  the  cheese  begins  to 
look  dry,  then  ripen  it  with  nut  leaves  ;  it  will  be  ready  in  ten 
days. 

Fresh  nettles,  or  two  pewter  plates,  will  ripen  cream 
cheese  very  well. 


HOME  BREWERY 


To  Brew  Very  Fine  Welsh  Ale 

Pour  forty-two  gallons  of  hot  water,  but  not  quite  boil- 
ing", on  four  bushels  of  malt,  cover  and  let  it  stand  three  hours; 
in  the  meantime  infuse  a  pound  and  a  half  of  hops  in  a  little 
hot  water  or  two  pounds  if  the  ale  is  to  be  kept  five  or  six 
months,  and  put  water  and  hops  into  the  tub,  and  run  the 
wort  upon  them,  and  boil  them  together  three  hours.  Strain 
off  the  hops,  and  keep  for  the  small  beer.  Let  the  wort 
stand  in  a  high  tub  till  cool  enough  to  receive  the  )  east,  of 
which  put  two  quarts  of  ale,  or  if  you  cannot  get  it,  of  small 
beer  yeast.  Mix  it  thoroughly  and  often.  When  the  wort 
has  done  working,  the  second  or  third  day,  the  yeast  will  sink 
rather  than  rise  in  the  middle,  remove  it  then  and  turn  the 
ale  as  it  works  out,  pour  a  quart  in  at  the  time  and  gently 
to  prevent  the  fermentation  from  continuing  too  long,  which 
weakens  the  liquor.  Put  a  bit  of  paper  over  the  bunghole 
two  or  three  clays  before  stopping  it  up. 

Strong  Beer  or  Ale 

Twelve  bushels  of  malt  to  the  hogshead  for  beer,  eight 
for  ale,  for  either  pour  the  whole  quantity  of  hot  water, 
not  boiling,  on  at  once  and  let  it  infuse  three  hours  closely 
covered,  mash  it  in  the  first  half  hour,  and  let  it  stand  the  re- 
mainder of  the  time.  Run  it  on  the  hops  previously  infused 
in  water,  for  strong  beer  three  quarters  of  a  pound  to  a 
bushel,  if  for  ale,  a  half  pound.  Boil  them  with  the  wort  two 
hours  from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil.  Cool  a  pailful  to  add 
three  quarts  of  yeast  to,  which  will  prepare  it  for  putting 
to  the  rest  when  ready  next  day,  but  if  possible  put  together 
the  same  night.  Turn  as  usual.  Cover  the  bunghole  with 
paper  when  the  beer  has  finished  working,  and  if  it  is  to  be 
stopped  have  ready  a  pound  and  a  half  of  hops  dried  before 
the  fire,  put  them  into  the  bunghole,  and  fasten  it  up.  Set  it 
to  stand  twelve  months  in  casks,  and  twelve  in  bottles  before 
it  is  drunk.  It  will  keep  and  be  very  fine  eight  or  ten  years. 
It  should  be  brewed  the  beginning  of  March. 


io8 


The  Souttiern  Cookbook 


Great  care  must  be  taken  that  bottles  are  perfectly  pre- 
pared, and  that  the  corks  are  of  the  best  sort. 

The  ale  will  be  ready  in  three  or  four  months,  and  if  the 
vent  peg  is  never  removed,  it  will  have  spirit  and  strength  to 
the  very  last.    Allow  two  gallons  of  water  at  first  for  waste. 

After  the  beer  or  ale  is  run  from  the  grains,  pour  a  hogs- 
head and  a  half  for  the  twelve  bushels  and  a  hogshead  of 
water  if  eight  were  brewed,  mash  and  let  it  stand,  and  then 
boil,  etc.,  use  some  of  the  hops  for  the  table  beer  that  was 
boiled  for  the  strong  beer. 

Excellent  Table  Beer 

On  three  bushels  of  malt  pour  of  hot  water  the  third  of 
the  quantity  you  are  to  use,  which  is  to  be  thirty-nine  gallons. 
Cover  it  warm  half  an  hour,  then  wash,  and  let  stand  two 
hours  and  a  half  more,  then  set  it  to  drain.  When  dry  add 
half  the  remaining  water,  mash,  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour, 
run  that  into  another  tub  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  water  on 
the  malt,  stir  it  well  and  cover  it,  letting  it  infuse  a  full  hour. 
Run  that  off  and  mix  well,  all  together.  A  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  hops  should  be  infused  in  water,  as  in  the  former 
recipe,  and  be  put  into  the  tub  for  first  running.  Boil  the 
hops  with  the  wort  an  hour  from  the  time  it  first  boils. 
Strain  off  and  cool,  if  the  whole  be  not  cool  enough  that  day 
to  add  to  the  yeast,  a  pail  or  two  of  wort  may  be  prepared, 
and  a  quart  of  yeast  put  to  it  over  night.  Before  turning, 
all  the  wort  should  be  added  together,  and  thoroughly  mixed 
with  a  lade  pail.  When  the  wort  ceases  to  work,  put  a  bit  of 
paper  on  the  bunghole  for  three  days,  when  it  may  be  safely 
fastened  close.  In  three  or  four  weeks  the  beer  will  be  fit 
drinking. 

Note.  Servants  should  be  directed  to  put  a  cork  into 
every  barrel  as  soon  as  the  cork  is  taken  out,  the  air  causing 
casks  to  become  musty. 

To  Refine  Beer,   Ale,  Wine  and  Cider 

Put  two  ounces  of  isinglass  shavings  to  soak  in  a  quart  of 
the  liquor  that  you  want  to  clear,  beat  it  with  a  whisk  every 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


109 


day  till  dissolved.  Draw  off  a  third  part  of  the  cask,  and  mix 
the  above  with  it,  likewise  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  pearl-ashes, 
one  ounce  of  salt  of  tartar  calcined,  and  one  ounce  of  burnt 
alum  powdered.  Stir  it  well,  then  return  the  liquor  into  the 
casks,  and  stir  it  with  a  clean  stick.  Stop  it  up,  and  in  a  few 
days  it  will  be  fine. 

To  Make   Excellent  Coffee.  See   Among  Sick   Cookery,  Orgeat 

Beat  a  quart  of  new  milk  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon, 
sweeteu  to  your  taste,  and  let  grow  cold,  then  pour  it  by 
degrees  to  three  ounces  of  almonds,  and  twenty  bitter  that 
have  been  blanched  and  beaten  to  a  paste,  with  a  little  water 
to  prevent  oiling,  boil  all  together,  and  stir  till  cold,  then  add 
half  a  glass  of  brandy. 

Another  Way 

Blanch  and  pound  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  almonds, 
and  thirty  bitter,  with  a  spoonful  of  water,  stir  in  by  degrees 
two  pints  of  water,  and  three  of  milk,  and  strain  the  whole 
through  a  cloth.  Dissolve  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  in  a 
pint  of  water,  boil  and  skim  it  well,  mix  it  with  the  other  as 
likewise  two  spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water,  and  a  teacupfui 
of  the  best  brandy. 

Lemonade,   to  be  Made  the  Day    Before  Wanted 

Pare  two  dozen  of  tolerably  sized  lemons  as  thin  as 
possible,  put  eighteen  of  the  rinds  into  three  quarts  of  hot, 
not  boiling  water,  and  cover  it  over  for  three  or  four  hours. 
Rub  some  fine  sugar  on  the  lemons  to  attract  the  essence, 
and  put  it  into  a  china  bowl  into  which  squeeze  the  juice  of 
the  lemons,  to  it  add  one  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  sugar,  then 
put  the  water  to  the  above,  and  three  quarts  of  milk  not 
boiling  hot,  mix  and  pour  through  a  jelly  bag  till  perfectly 
clear. 

Another  Way 

Pare  a  number  of  lemons  according  to  the  quantity  you 
are  likely  to  want,  on  the  peels  pour  hot  water,  but  more 
juice  will  be  necessary  than  you  need  use  the  peels  of.  While 


I  10 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


infusing,  boil  sugar  and  water  to  a  good  syrup  with  the  white 
of  an  egg  whipped  up.  When  it  boils  pour  a  little  cold  water 
into  it,  set  it  on  again,  and  when  it  boils  up,  take  the  pan  off, 
and  set  it  to  settle.  If  there  is  any  scum,  take  it  off,  and 
pour  it  clear  from  the  sediment  to  the  water  the  peels  were 
infused  in,  and  the  lemon  juice,  stir  and  taste  it  and  add  as 
much  more  water  as  shall  be  necessary  to  make  a  very  rich 
lemonade.  Wet  a  jelly  bag,  and  squeeze  it  dry,  then  strain 
the  liquor,  which  is  uncommonly  fine. 

Raspberry  Vinegar 

Put  a  pound  of  fine  fruit  into  a  china  bowl,  and  pour 
upon  it  a  quart  of  the  best  white  wine  vinegar,  next  day  strain 
the  liquor  on  a  pound  of  fresh  raspberries,  and  the  following 
day  do  the  same,  but  do  not  squeeze  the  fruit,  only  drain  the 
liquor  as  dry  as  you  can  from  it.  The  last  time,  pass  it 
through  a  canvas  previously  wet  with  vinegar  to  prevent 
waste.  Put  it  into  a  stone  jar,  with  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
every  pint  of  juice,  broken  into  large  lumps,  stir  it  when 
melted,  then  put  the  jar  into  a  saucepan  of  water,  or  on  a  hot 
hearth,  let  it  simmer,  and  skim  it.    When  cold  bottle  it. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  useful  preparations  that  can  be 
kept  in  a  house,  not  only  as  affording  the  most  refreshing 
beverage,  but  being  of  ^singular  efficacy  in  complaints  of  the 
chest.    A  large  spoonful  or  two  in  a  tumbler  of  water. 

N.  B.  Use  no  glazed  or  metal  vessel  for  it. 

Note.  The  fruit,  with  equal  quantity  of  sugar,  makes 
excellent  raspberry  cakes  without  boiling. 

Raspberry  Wine 

To  every  quart  of  well  picked  raspberries  put  a  quart  of 
water,  bruise,  and  let  them  stand  two  days,  strain  off  the 
liquor,  and  to  every  gallon  put  three  pounds  of  lump  sugar; 
when  dissolved  put  the  liquor  in  a  barrel  an'd  when  fine,  which 
will  be  in  about  two  months,  bottle  it,  and  to  each  bottle  put  a 
spoonful  of  brandy,  or  a  glass  of  wine. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


1 1 1 


Raspberry   or  Currant  Wine 

To  every  three  pints  of  fruit,  carefully  cleared  from 
mould  or  bad,  put  one  quart  of  water,  bruise  the  former.  In 
twenty-four  hours  strain  the  liquor,  and  put  to  every  quart  a 
pound  of  sugar,  a  good  middling  quantity  of  Lisbon.  If  for 
white  currants,  use  lump  sugar.  It  is  best  to  put  the  fruit, 
etc,  in  a  large  pan,  and  when  in  three  or  four  clays  the  scum 
rises,  take  that  off  before  the  liquor  be  put  into  the  barrel. 

Those  who  make  from  their  own  gardens  may  not  have  a 
sufficiency  to  fill  the  barrel  at  once. 

The  wine  will  not  be  hurt  if  made  in  the  pan,  in  the 
above  proportions,  and  added  to  as  the  fruit  ripens,  andean  be 
gathered  in  dry  weather.  Keep  an  account  of  what  is  put  in 
each  time. 

Imperial 

Put  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  the  juice  and  par- 
ing of  two  lemons  into  a  stone  jar,  pour  on  them  seven  quarts 
of  boiling  water,  stir  and  cover  close.  When  cold,  sweeten  with 
loaf  sugar,  and  straining  it,  bottle  and  cork  it  tight. 

This  is  a  very  pleasant  liquor,  and  very  wholesome,  but 
from  the  latter  consideration  was  at  one  time  drank  in  such 
quantities,  as  to  become  injurious.  Add  in  bottling,  half  a 
pint  of  rum  to  the  whole  quantity. 

Excellent  Ginger-wine 

Put  into  a  very  nice  boiler  ten  gallons  of  water,  twelve 
pounds  and  a  half  of  lump  sugar,  with  the  whites  of  six  or 
eight  eggs  well  beaten  and  strained,  mix  all  well  while  cold; 
when  the  liquor  boils,  skim  it  well,  put  half  a  pound  of  cinna- 
mon, white  ginger  bruised,  boiled  twenty  minutes.  Have  ready 
the  very  thin  rinds  of  ten  lemons,  and  pour  the  liquor  on  them, 
when  cool  turn  it  with  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  put  a  quart  of 
the  liquor  to  two  ounces  of  isinglass  shavings;  while  warm, 
whisk  it  well  three  or  four  times,  and  pour  all  together  into 
the  barrel.  Next  day  stop  it  up;  in  three  weeks  bottle,  and  in 
three  months  it  will  be  a  delicious  and  refreshing  liquor,  and 
though  very  cool,  perfectly  safe. 


112 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Another  for  Ginger-wine 

Boil  nine  quarts  of  water  with  six  pounds  of  lump  sugar, 
the  rinds  of  two  lemons  very  thinly  pared,  with  two  ounces  of 
bruised  white  ginger,  half  an  hour,  skim.  Put  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  raisins  into  the  cask,  when  the  liquor  is  luke 
warm,  turn  it  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  strained,  and  a 
spoonful  and  a  half  of  yeast.  Stir  it  daily,  then  put  in  half  a 
pint  of  brandy,  and  half  an  ounee  of  isinglass- shavings,  stop  it 
up,  and  bottle  it  six  or  seven  weeks.  Do  not  put  the  lemon- 
peel  in  the  barrel. 

Alderwine 

To  every  quart  of  berries  put  two  quarts  of  water,  boil 
half  an  hour,  run  the  liquor,  and  break  the  fruit  thiough  a  hair 
sieve,  then  to  every  quart  of  juice  put  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  Lisbon  sugar,  not  the  very  coarsest,  but  coarse.  Boil 
the  whole  a  quarter  of  an  hour  with  some  Jamaica  peppers, 
ginger  and  a  few  cloves.  Pour  it  into  a  tub  and  when  of  a 
proper  warmth  into  the  barrel,  with  toast  and  yeast  to  woik, 
which  there  is  more  difficulty  to  make  it  do  than  most  other 
liquors.  When  it  ceases  to  hiss,  put  a  quart  of  brandy  to  eight 
gallons  and  stop  up.    Bottle  in  the  spring,  or  at  Christmas. 

White  Alder-wine — Frontiniac 

Boil  eighteen  pounds  of  white  powdered  sugar,  with  six 
gallons  of  water,  and  two  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten,  then  skim 
it,  and  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  alder  flowers  from  the  tree 
that  bears  white  berries,  do  not  keep  them  on  the  fire.  When 
near  cold,  stir  it,  and  put  in  six  spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  four 
or  five  of  yeast,  and  beat  well  into  the  liquor;  stir  it  every  day, 
put  six  pounds  of  the  best  raisins  stoned,  into  the  cask,  and 
turn  the  wine.  Stop  it  close,  and  bottle  in  six  months.  When 
well  kept,  this  wine  will  pass  for  Frontiniac. 

Cherry  Wine 

Boil  fifteen  gallons  of  water,  with  forty-five  pounds  of 
sugar,  skim  it,  when  cool,  put  a  little  to  a  quart  of  a  pint  of 
yeast,  and  so  by  degrees  add  a  little  more.     In  an  hour  pour 


The  Southern  Cookbook  113 

the  small  quantity  to  the  large,  pour  the  liquor  on  cherry 
flowers,  picked  in  the  dry,  the  quantity  for  the  above  is  twelve 
quarts.  Those  who  gather  from  their  own  garden  may  not 
have  sufficient  to  put  in  at  once,  and  may  add  as  they 
can  get  them,  keeping  account  of  each  quart.  When  it 
ceases  to  hiss,  and  the  flowers  are  all  in,  stop  it  up  for  four 
months.  Rack  it  off,  empty  the  barrel  of  the  dregs,  and  add- 
ing a  gallon  of  the  best  brandy  stop  it  up.  and  let  it  stand  six 
or  eight. weeks,  then  bottle  it. 

A  Rich  and  Pleasing  Wine 

Take  new  cider  from  the  press,  mix  it  with  as  much  honey 
as  will  support  an  egg,  boil  gently  fifteen  minutes,  but  not  in 
an  iron,  brass  or  copper  pot,  skim  it  well,  when  cool  let  it  be 
turned,  but  do  not  quite  fill.  In  March  following,  bottle  it,  and 
it  will  be  fit  to  drink  in  six  weeks;  will  be  less  sweet  if  kept 
longer  in  the  cask.  You  will  have  a  rich  and  strong  wine,  and 
it  will  keep  well.  This  will  serve  for  any  culinary  purposes 
which  sack,  or  sweet  wine  are  directed  for. 

Duhamel  says,  honey  is  a  fine  ingredient  to  assist  and 
render  palatable  new  crabbed,  austere  cider. 

Raisin  Wine  with  Cider 

Put  two  hundred  weight  of  Malaga  raisins  into  a  cask,  and 
pour  upon  them  a  hogshead  of  good  sound  cider  that  is  not 
rough.  Stir  it  well  two  or  three  days,  stop  it,  and  let  it  stand 
six  months,  then  rack  into  a  cask  that  it  will  fill,  and  put  in  a 
gallon  of  the  best  brandy. 

If  raisin  wine  be  much  used,  it  would  answer  well  to  keep 
a  cask  always  for  it,  and  bottle  off  one  year's  wine  just  in  time 
to  make  the  next,  which  allowing  the  six  months  of  infusion 
would  make  the  wine  to  be  eighteen  months  old.  In  cider 
countries  this  way  is  very  economical,  and  even  if  not  thought 
strong  enough,  the  addition  of  another  quarter  of  a  hundied 
of  raisins  would  be  sufficient,  and  the  wine  would  still  be  very 
cheap. 


(8) 


ii4 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


When  the  raisins  are  pressed  through  a  horse-hair  bag, 
they  will  either  produce  a  very  good  spirit  by  distillation  and 
must  be  sent  to  a  chemist  who  will  doit  (but  if  for  that  purpose 
they  must  be  very  little  pressed)  or  they  will  make  excellent 
vinegar,  on  which  article  see  another  page. 

The  stalks  should  be  picked  off  for  the  above,  and  may  be 
thrown  into  any  cask  of  vinegar  that  is  making,  being  very  acid. 

Raisin  Wine  without  Cider 

On  four  hundred  weight  of  Malagas  pour  one  hogshead  of 
spring  water,  stir  well  daily  for  fourteen  days,  then  squeeze 
the  raisins  in  a  horse-hair  bag  in  a  press,  and  turn  the  liquor; 
when  it  ceases  to  hiss  stop  it  close.  In  six  months  rack  it  off 
into  another  cask,  or  into  a  tub,  and  after  clearing  out  the  sed- 
iment, return  it  into  the  same,  but  do  not  wash  it,  add  a  gallon 
of  the  best  brandy,  stop  it  close,  and  in  six  months  bottle  it. 
Take  care  of  the  pressed  fruit,  for  the  use  of  which  refer  to 
the  preceding  recipe. 

Ratafia 

Blanch  two  ounces  of  peach  and  apricot  kernels,  bruise 
and  put  them  into  a  bottle,  and  fill  nearly  up  with  brandy. 
Dissolve  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar  candy  in  a  cup  of  cold 
water,  and  add  to  the  brandy  after  it  has  stood  a  month  on 
the  kernels,  and  they  are  strained  off,  then  filter  through  pa- 
per, and  bottle  for  use. 

Raspberry  Brandy 

Pick  fine  dry  fruit,  put  into  a  stone  jar,  and  the  jar  into  a 
kettle  of  water,  or  on  a  hot  hearth,  till  the  juice  runs,  strain, 
and  to  every  pint  add  a  pound  of  sugar,  give  one  boil,  and 
skim  it  when  cold  ;  put  equal  quantities  of  juice,  and  brandy, 
shake  well,  and  bottle.  Some  people  prefer  it  stronger  of  the 
brandy. 

Vender,    or  Milk  Punch 

Fare  six  oranges,  and  six  lemons  as  thin  as  you  can,  grate 
them  after  with  sugar  to  get  the  flavor.    Steep  the  peels  in  a 
bottle  of  rum  or  brandy,    stop    close    twenty-four  hours. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Squeeze  the  fruit  on  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  add  to  it 
four  quarts  of  water,  and  one  of  new  milk,  boiling  hot,  stir  the 
rum  into  the  above  ,  and  run  it  through  a  jelly-bag  till  per- 
fectly clear.    Bottle  and  cork  close  immediately. 

Norfolk  Punch 

Pare  six  lemons  and  three  Seville  oranges  very  thin, 
squeeze  the  juice  into  a  large  teapot,  put  to  it  two  quarts  of 
brandy,  one  of  white  wine,  and  one  of  milk,  and  one  pound  and 
a  quarter  of  sugar,  let  it  be  mixed  fine,  and  then  covered  for 
twenty-four  hours,  strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  till  clear,  then 
bottle  it. 

Orange  or  lemon  syrup,  a  most  useful  thing  to  keep  in 
the  house,  to  take  with  water,  in  colds  or  fevers. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  very  good  fruit,  and  boil  ;  when 
strained,  a  pint  to  a  pound  of  sugar,  over  a  very  gentle  fire, 
skim  it  well,  when  clear,  pour  it  into  a  china  bowl,  and  in 
twenty-four  hours  bottle  ;t  for  use. 

White  Currant  Shrub 

Strip  the  fruit,  and  prepare  in  a  jar  as  for  jelly,  strain  the 
juice,  of  which  put  two  quarts  to  one  gallon  of  rum,  and  two 
pounds  of  lump  sugar  ;  strain  through  a  jelly  bag. 


FOR  THE  SICK 


The  lollowing  pages  will  contain  cookery  for  the  sick,  it 
being  of  more  consequence  to  support  those  whose  bad  appe- 
tites will  not  allow  them  to  take  the  necessary  nourishment, 
than  to  stimulate  those  that  are  in  health. 

It  may  not  be  necessary  to  advise,  that  a  choice  be  made 
of  the  things  most  likely  to  agree  with  the  patient,  that  a 
change  be  provided,  that  some  one  at  least  be  always  ready, 
that  not  too  much  of  these  be  made  at  once,  which  are  not 
likely  to  keep,  as  invalids  require  variety,  and  let  them  succeed 
each  other  in  a  different  form  and  flavor. 

A  Great  Restorative 

Bake  two  calve's  feet  in  three  pints  of  water,  and  new 
milk,  in  a  jar  closely  covered,  three  hours  and  a  half ;  when 
cold,  remove  the  fat. 

Give  a  large  teacup  the  first  and  last  thing.  Whatever 
flavor  is  approved,  give  it  by  baking  in  it  lemon-peel,  cinna- 
mon or  mace,  add  sugar. 

Another 

Simmer  six  sheep's  trotters,  two  blades  of  mace,  a  little 
cinnamon,  lemon-peel,  a  few  hartshorn  shavings,  and  a  little 
isinglass,  in  two  quarts  of  water  to  one  ;  when  cold,  take  off 
the  fat,  and  give  near  half  a  pint  twice  a  day,  warming  with  it 
a  little  new  milk. 

Another 

Boil  one  ounce  of  isinglass  shavings,  forty  Jamaica  peppers, 
and  a  bit  of  broken  crust  of  bread,  in  a  quart  of  water  to  a 
pint,  and  strain  it. 

This  makes  a  pleasant  jelly  to  keep  in  the  house,  of  which 
a  large  spoonful  may  be  taken  in  wine  and  water,  milk,  tea, 
soup,  or  anyway. 

Another  and  More  Pleasant  Draught 

Boil  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  shavings,  with  a 
pint  of  new  milk,  to  half,  add  a  bit  of  sugar,  and  for  a  change 
a  bitter  almond.    Give  this  at  night,  not  too  warm. 


The  Sent  hern  Cookbook 


ii7 


A  Very  Nourishing  Veal  Broth 

Put  the  knuckle  of  a  leg  or  shoulder  of  veal,  with  very 
little  meat  to  it,  an  old  fowl,  and  four  shankbones  of  mutton 
extremely  well  soaked  and  brushed,  three  blades  of  mace,  ten 
pepper-corns,  an  onion,  and  a  large  bit  of  bread,  and  three 
quarts  of  water,  into  a  stewpot  that  covers  close,  and  simmer 
in  the  slowest  manner  after  it  has  boiled  up,  and  been  skimmed, 
or  bake  it,  strain  and  take  off  the  fat.    Salt  as  wanted. 

A  Clear  Broth  That  Will   Keep  Long 

Pat  the  mouse  round  of  beef,  a  knuckle-bone  of  veal,  and 
a  few  shanks  of  mutton  into  a  deep  pan,  and  cover  close  with 
a  dish  or  a  close  crust,  bake  till  the  loaf  is  done  enough  for 
eating  with  only  as  much  water  as  will  cover  ;  when  cold 
cover  it  close,  in  a  cool  place.  When  to  be  used,  give  what 
flavor  may  be  approved. 

Beef  Tea 

Cut  a  pound  of  fleshy  beef  in  thin  slices,  simmer  with  a 
quart  of  water  twenty  minutes  after  it  has  once  boiled,  and 
been  skimmed.  Season,  if  approved,  but  it  has  generally 
only  salt. 

Broth  of  Beef,  Muttpn  and  Veal 

Put  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  two  pounds  of  scrag  of 
mutton,  sweet  herbs,  and  ten  pepper-corns,  into  a  nice  tin 
saucepan,  with  five  quarts  of  water,  simmer  to  three  quarts, 
and  clear  the  fat  when  cold. 

Note.  The  soup  and  broth  made  of  different  meats  are 
more  supporting,  as  well  as  better  flavored. 

Two    Ways   of  Preparing  a  Chicken.   Chicken  Panada 

Boil  it  until  about  three  parts  ready,  in  a  quart  of  water, 
take  off  the  skin,  cut  the  white  meat  off  when  cold,  and  put 
into  a  marble  mortar,  pound  it  to  a  paste  with  a  little  of  the 
water  it  was  boiled  in,  season  with  a  little  salt,  a  grate  of 
nutmeg,  and  the  least  bit  of  lemon-peel.  Boil  gently  for  a 
few  minutes  to  the  consistency  you  like;  it  should  be  such  as 
you  can  drink,  though  tolerably  thick. 

This  contains  great  nourishment  in  a  small  compass. 


u8 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Chicken  Broth 

Pat  the  body  and  the  legs  of  the  fowl  that  the  panada  was 
made  of,  taking  the  skin  and  rump  off,  into  the  water  it  was 
boiled  in,  with  one  blade  of  mace,  one  slice  of  onion,  and  ten 
white  pepper-corns.  Simmer  till  the  broth  be  of  a  pleasant 
flavor.  If  not  water  enough,  add  a  little  more.  Beat  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  sweet  almonds,  fine,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  water, 
boil  it  in  the  broth,  strain,  and  when  cold  remove  the  fat. 

Shank  Jelly 

Soak  twelve  shanks  of  mutton  four  hours,  then  brush 
and  scour  them  very  clean. .  Lay  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
three  blades  of  mace,  one  onion,  twenty  Jamaica,  and  thirty 
or  forty  black  peppers,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  crust  of 
bread  made  very  brown  by  toasting.  Pour  three  quarts  of 
water  to  them,  and  set  them  to  a  hot  hearth  close  covered, 
let  them  simmer  as  gently  as  possible  for  five  hours,  then 
strain  it  off,  and  put  it  in  a  cold  place. 

This  may  have  the  addition  of  a  pound  of  beef,  if 
approved  for  flavor. 

A  Quick   Made  Broth 

Take  a  bone  or  two  of  a  loin  or  neck  of  mutton,  take  off 
the  fat  and  skin,  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  small  tin  saucepan 
that  has  a  cover,  with  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  water,  the 
meat  being  first  beaten,  and  cut  in  thin  bits,  put  a  bit  of 
thyme  and  parsley,  and  if  approved,  a  slice  of  onion.  Let  it 
boil  very  quick,  skim  it  nicely,  take  off  the  cover,  if  likely  to 
be  too  weak,  else  cover  it. 

Half  an  hour  is  sufficient  for  the  whole  process. 

Calf's  Feet  Broth 

Boil  two  feet  in  three  quarts  of  water  to  half,  strain  and 
set  it  by.  When  to  be  used,  take  off  the  fat,  put  a  large 
teacupful  of  the  jelly  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  half  glass  of 
sweet  wine,  a  little  sugar  and  nutmeg,  and  heat  it  up  till  it  be 
ready  to  boil,  then  take  a  little  out  of  it,  and  beat  by  degrees 
to  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  adding  a  bit  of  butter,  the  size 
of  a  nutmeg,  stir  it  all  together,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Grate 
a  bit  of  fresh  lemon-peel  into  it. 


The  Sou  the i'u  Cookbook 


Another 

Boil  two  calf's  feet,  two  ounces  of  veal,  and  two  of  beef, 
the  bottom  of  a  penny  loaf,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  half 
a  nutmeg  sliced,  and  a  little  salt  in  three  quarts  of  water,  or 
three  pints,  strain,  and  take  off  the  fat. 

Panada,  Made  in  Five  Minutes 

Set  a  little  water  on  the  fire  with  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
some  sugar,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg  and  lemon-peel,  mean  while 
grate  some  crumbs  of  bread.  The  minute  the  mixture  boils 
up,  keeping  it  still  on  the  fire,  put  the  crumbs  in, and  let  it 
boil  as  fast  as  it  can.  When  of  a  proper  thickness  just  to 
drink,  take  it  off. 

Another 

As  above,  but  instead  of  a  glass  of  wine,  put  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  rum,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  sugar  as  above. 
This  is  a  most  pleasant  mess. 


SAUCES,  ETC 


A  Rich  Gravy 

Cut  beef  in  thin  slices,  according  to  the  quantity  wanted: 
slice  onions  thin,  and  flour  both:  fry  them  of  a  light  pale 
brown,  but  on  no  account  suffer  them  to  grow  black:  put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  and  pouring  boiling  water  on  the  browning  in 
the  frying-pan,  boil  it  up,  and  pour  on  the  meat.  Put  it  to  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  thyme,  savory,  and  a  small  bit  of  knotted 
marjoram,  and  the  same  of  tarragon,  some  mace,  Jamaica  and 
black  peppers,  a  clove  or  two,  and  a  bit  of  ham  or  gammon. 
Simmer  till  you  have' all  the  juices  of  the  meat;  and  be  sure  to 
skim  the  moment  it  boils,  and  frequently  after.  If  for  a  hare, 
or  stewed  fish,  anchovy  should  be  added. 

The  shank  bones  of  mutton  are  a  great  improvement  to 
the  richness  of  the  gravy;  being  first  well  soaked,  and  scoured 
clean. 

Note.  Jelly  gravies  for  cold  pies  should  be  brown  or  white, 
as  the  meat  or  fowl  is.  It  must  be  drawn  without  frying, 
relished,  and  made  quite  clean,  by  running  it  through  a  flannel 
bag.  To  give  it  the  consistence  of  jelly,  shanks,  or  knuckle, 
or  feet,  should  be  boiled  with  the  bones. 

Jelly  to  Cover  Cold  Fish 

Clean  a  maid:  put  it  with  three  quarts  of  water,  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  isinglass,  a  bit  of  mace,  lemon-peel,  white  pepper, 
a  stick  of  horseradish,  and  a  little  ham  or  gammon.  Stew,  till 
on  trying  with  a  spoon  you  find  that  it  jellies:  then  strain  it  off 
and  add  to  it  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  a  glass  of  sherry  wine, 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  give  it  another  boil,  and  pour  it 
through  a  jelly-bag  till  quite  transparent. 

When  cold,  lay  it  over  the  fish  with  a  spoon. 

Cullis,  or  Brown  Sauce 

Lay  as  much  lean  veal  over  the  bottom  of  a  stewpan  as 
will  cover  it  an  inch  thick:  then  cover  the  veal  with  thin  slices 
of  undressed  gammon,  two  or  three  onions,  two  or  three  bay- 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


121 


leaves,  some  sweet  herbs,  two  blades  of  mace,  and  three 
cloves.  Cover  the  stewpan,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire.  When 
the  juice  comes  out,  let  the  fire  be  a  little  quicker.  When  the 
meat  is  of  a  fine  brown,  fill  the  pan  with  good  beef  broth,  boil 
and  skim  well,  then  simmer  an  hour:  add  a  little  water,  mixed 
with  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  properly  thick:  boil  it  half 
an  hour,  and  strain  it. 

This  will  keep  a  week. 

Veal  Gravy 

Make  as  directed  for  the  cullis,  leaving  out  the  spice,  herbs 
and  flour.  It  should  be  drawn  very  slowly:  and  if  for  white 
dishes,  do  not  let  the  meat  brown. 

Bechamel  or  White  Sauce 

Cut  lean  veal  in  small  slices,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
lean  bacon  or  ham:  put  them  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  good  piece 
of  butter,  an  onion,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  few  mushroom  buttons, 
a  bit  of  thyme,  and  a  bayleaf .  Fry  the  whole  over  a  very  slow 
fire,  but  not  to  brown  it:  add  flour  to  thicken;  then  put  an  equal 
quantity  of  good  broth,  and  rich  cream.  Let  it  boil  half  an 
hour,  stirring  it  all  the  time:  strain  it  through  a  soup  strainer. 

N.  B.  Soups  and  gravies  are  far  better  by  putting  the 
meat  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  stewing  it,  and  the  herbs, 
roots,  etc.,  with  butter,  than  by  adding  the  water  to  the  meat 
at  first;  and  the  gravy  that  is  drawn  from  the  meat  should  be 
nearly  dried  up  before  the  water  is  put  to  it.  Do  not  use  the 
sediment  of  gravies,  etc.  that  have  stood  to  be  cold.  When 
onions  are  strong,  boil  a  turnip  with  them,  if  for  sauce,  which 
will  make  them  mild. 

Sauce  for  White  Fowl 

Simmer  ten  minutes  a  teacupful  of  port  wine,  the  same  of 
good  meat  gravy,  a  little  shallot,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  a  grate  of 
nutmeg,  and  a  bit  of  mace:  put  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour:  give 
one  boil,  and  pour  through  the  birds;  which  in  general  are  not 
stuffed  as  tame,  but  may  be  done  so,  if  liked. 


122 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Another  for  the  Same,  or  Ducks 

Serve  a  rich  gravy  in  the  dish:  cut  the  breast  in  slices,  but 
do  not  take  them  off:  cut  a  lemon,  and  put  pepper  and  salt  on 
it;  then  squeeze  it  on  the  breast,  and  pour  a  spoonful  of  gravy 
over  before  you  help. 

Note.  In  cutting  up  any  wild  fowl,  duck,  goose,  or  turkey 
for  a  large  party,  if  you  cut  the  slices  down  from  pinion  to 
pinion,  without  making  wings,  there  will  be  more  prime  pieces. 

Sauce  Robart  for  Rumps  or  Steaks 

Put  into  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg: 
set  it  over  the  fire,  and  when  browning,  throw  in  a  handful  of 
sliced  onions  cut  small:  fry  them  brown,  but  do  not  let  them 
burn:  add  half  a  spoonful  of  flour,  shake  the  onions  in  it,  give 
another  fry,  then  put  four  spoonfuls  of  gravy,  pepper,  salt,  and 
boil  gently  ten  minutes.  Skim  off  the  fat:  add  a  teaspoonful" 
of  made  mustard,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  half  a  lemon 
juice:  boil,  and  pour  around  the  steaks,  which  should  be  of  a 
fine  yellow  brown,  and  garnished  with  fried  parsley  and  lemon. 

An  Excellent  Sauce  for  Carp  or  Boiled  Turkey 

Rub  half  a  pound  of  butter  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour; 
put  to  it  a  little  water,  melt  it,  and  add  near  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  thick  cream,  and  half  an  anchovy  chopped  fine,  unwashed; 
set  it  over  the  fire,  and  as  it  boils  up,  add  a  large  spoonful  of 
real  Indian  soy.  If  that  does  not  give  it  a  fine  color,  put  a 
little  more  Turn  it  into  the  sauce-tureen,  and  put  seme  salt, 
and  half  a  lemon.    Stir  it  well  to  prevent  curdling. 

Sauce  for  Fowl  or  Partridge 

Rub  down  in  a  mortar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  boiled  hard, 
and  anchovy,  two  dessert  spoonfuls  of  oil,  a  little  shallot,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  mustard,  (all  should  be  pounded  before  the  oil 
be  added)  then  strain  it. 

Vinegar  for  Cold  Fowl  or  Meat 

Chop  fine  meat,  parsley,  and  shallot,  and  add  salt,  oil,  and 
vinegar.    It  may  be  poured  over,  or  sent  in  in  a  boat. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


123 


Benton  Sauce  for  Hot  or  Cold  Roast  Beef 

Grate,  or  scrape  very  fine,  horseradish,  a  little  made  mus- 
tard, some  pounded  white  sugar,  and  four  large  spoonfuls  of 
vinegar. 

Serve  in  a  saucer. 

To  Melt  Butter 

On  a  clean  trencher,  mix  a  little  flour  to  a  large  piece  of 
butter,  in  the  proportion  of  a  teaspoonful  to  a  full  quarter  of  a 
pound  ;  then  put  into  a  saucepan,  and  pour  on  it  two  large 
spoonfuls  of  hot  water  ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  quick. 
You  should  stir  it  around  one  way,  and  serve  it  as  soon  as 
ready. 

On  the  goodness  of  this  depends  the  look  and  flavor  of 
every  sauce  in  which  it  is  put. 

Lobster  Sauce 

Pound  the  spawn,  and  two  anchovies  :  pour  on  two  spoon- 
fuls of  gravy  ;  strain  it  into  some  butter  melted  as  above  : 
then  put  in  the  meat  of  the  lobster,  give  one  boil,  and  add  a 
squeeze  of  lemon. 

Another  Way 

Leave  out  the  anchovies  and  gravy,  and  do  as  above,  with 
a  little  salt,  and  catsup,  or  not,  as  you  like.  Many  prefer  the 
flavor  of  the  lobster  and  salt  only. 

Shrimp  Sauce 

If  not  picked  at  home,  pour  a  little  water  over  to  wash, 
and  put  them  to  butter  melted  smooth  :  give  them  one  boil, 
and  add  the  juice  of  lemon. 

Anchovy  Sauce 

Chop  one  or  two  without  washing  :  put  some  flour  and 
butter,  and  a  little  drop  of  water  :  stir  it  over  the  fire  till  it 
boils  once  or  twice.  When  anchovies  are  good  they  will  be 
dissolved  ;  and  the  color  will  be  better  than  by  the  usual  way. 

Fish  Sauce  Without  Butter 

Simmer  very  gently  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  vinegar,  half  a 
pint  of  water  (  which  must  not  be  hard )  with  an  onion,  half  a 


124 


The  Souther 7i  Cookbook 


handful  of  horseradish,  and  the  following  spices  lightly  bruis- 
ed :  four  cloves,  two  blades  of  mace,  and  a  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper.  When  the  onion  is  quite  tender,  chop  it 
small  with  two  anchovies  :  and  set  the  whole  on  the  fire  to 
boil  for  a  few  minutes,  with  a  spoonful  of  catsup.  Mean  time 
have  ready  and  well  beaten  the  yolks  of  three  fresh  eggs : 
strain  ;  mix  in  the  liquor  by  degrees  with  them  ;  and  when 
well  mixed,  set  the  saucepan  over  a  gentle  fire,  keeping  a  ba- 
sin in  one  hand,  into  which  toss  the  sauce  to  and  fro,  shaking 
the  saucepan  over  the  fire  that  the  eggs  may  not  curdle.  Do 
not  boil,  only  let  the  sauce  be  hot  enough  to  give  the  thick- 
ness of  melted  butter. 

Lemon  Sauce 

Cut  thin  slices  of  lemon  into  very  small  dice,  and  put  in 
to  melted  butter ;  give  one  boil,  and  pour  over  boiled  fowl. 

Liver  Sauce 

Chop  boiled  liver  of  rabbits  or  fowls,  and  do  as  above 
with  a  very  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  some  parsley. 

A  Very  Good  Sauce.     Especially  to  Hide  the  Bad   Color  of  Fowls 

Cut  the  livers,  slices  of  lemon  in  dice,  scalded  parsley,  and 
hard  eggs,  add  salt,  and  mix  with  butter,  boil  up,  and  pour 
over  the  fowls. 

Or  for  roast  rabbit. 

Egg  Sauce 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces  :  then 
put  them  into  melted  butter. 

Buttered  Eggs 

Beat  four  or  five  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together  :  put  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  basin,  and  then  put  that  in 
boiling  water  ;  stir  it  till  melted  :  then  pour  the  butter  and  the 
eggs  into  a  saucepan.  Keep  a  basin  in  your  hand  :  just  hold 
the  saucepan  in  the  other  over  a  slow  part  of  the  fire,  shaking 
it  one  way  ;  as  it  begins  to  warm,  pour  it  into  a  basin,  and 
back  ;  then  hold  it  again  over  the  fire,  stirring  it  constantly 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


in  the  saucepan,  and  pouring  it  into  the  basin,  more  perfectly 
to  mix  the  eggs  and  butter,  until  they  shall  be  hot  without 
boiling. 

Serve  on  toasted  bread  ;  or  in  a  basin  to  eat  with  salt 
fish  or  red  herrings. 

Onion  Sauce 

Peel,  and  boil  onions  tender  :  squeeze  the  water  from 
them  ;  then  chop,  and  add  butter  that  has  been  melted  rich 
and  smooth  as  before,  but  with  a  little  good  milk  instead  of 
water  :  boil  up  once,  and  serve  for  boiled  rabbits,  partridges, 
scrag,  or  knuckle  of  veal  ;  or  roast  mutton. 

Oyster  Sauce 

Save  the  liquor  in  opening,  and  boil  with  the  beards  a  bit 
of  mace  and  lemon-peel.  Meantime  throw  the  oysters  into 
cold  water,  and  drain  off.  Strain  the  liquor,  and  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  them,  and  as  much  butter,  mixed  with  a  little 
milk  as  will  make  sauce  enough  ;  a  little  flour  being  previous- 
ly rubbed  with  it. 

Set  them  over  the  fire,  stir  all  the  time;  and  uhen  the 
butter  has  boiled  once  or  twice,  take  them  off,  and  keep  the 
saucepan  near,  but  not  on  the  fire  ;  for  if  done  too  much,  the 
oysters  will  be  hard.    Squeeze  a  little  lemon-juice,  and  serve. 

If  for  company,  a  little  cream  is  a  great  improvement. 
Observe,  the  oysters  will  thin  the  sauce,  and  put  butter  ac- 
cordingly. 

Bread  Sauce 

Boil  a  large  onion,  cut  in  four,  with  some  black  peppers 
and  milk,  until  the  former  be  quite  a  pap.  Pour  the  milk, 
strained  on  grated  white  stale  bread,  and  cover  it.  In  an 
hour  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  wi£h  a  good  piece  of  butter,  mix- 
ed with  a  little  flour  :  boil  the  whole  up  together  and  serve. 

Some  people  like  the  bread  pulped  through  a  colander 
before  the  butter  is  added.  A  large  spoonful  of  cream  im- 
proves it. 


126 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Little  Eggs  for  Pies  or  Turtles 

Boil  three  eggs  hard;  beat  the  yolks  fine  with  the  raw 
yolk  of  an  egg  :  then  make  up  the  paste  into  small  eggs,  and 
throw  them  into  a  little  boiling  water  to  harden. 

Fish  Sauce  a  la  Craster 

Thicken  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  with  flour  and 
brown  it;  then  put  it  to  a  pound  of  the  best  anchovies,  cut 
small,  six  blades  of  pounded  mace,  ten  cloves,  forty  black  and 
Jamaica  peppers,  a  few  small  onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs  : 
namely,  savory,  thyme,  basil,  and  knotted  marjoram;  a  little 
parsley,  and  sliced  horseradish.  On  these  pour  half  a  pint  of 
the  best  sherry  wine,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  strong  gravy. 
Simmer  all  gently  for  twenty  minutes  ;  then  strain  it  through 
a  sieve,  and  bottle  it  for  use  :  the  way  of  which,  is  to  boil 
some  of  it  in  the  butter,  as  melting. 

A  very  Fine  Fish  Sauce 

Put  into  a  very  nice  saucepan,  a  pint  of  fine  port  wine, 
one  gill  of  mountain,  half  a  pint  of  walnut  catsup  that  is  fine, 
twelve  anchovies  and  the  liquor  that  belongs  to  them,  one  gill 
of  walnut  pickle,  and  the  rind  and  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  four 
or  five  shallots,  cayenne  to  taste,  three  ounces  of  scraped 
horseradish,  three  blades  of  mace,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
made  mustard  :  boil  gently,  till  the  rawness  goes  off,  then  put 
it  in  small  bottles  for  use. 

Cork  very  close,  and  seal  the  top. 

Camp  Vinegar 

Slice  a  large  head  of  garlic,  and  put  it  into  a  wide- 
mouthed  bottle,  with  half  an  ounce  of  cayenne,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls of  real  soy,  two  of  walnut  catsup,  four  anchovies  chop- 
ped, a  pint  of  vinegar,  cochineal  enough  to  give  the  color  of 
lavender  drops.  Let  it  stand  six  weeks,  then  strain  off  quite 
clear,  and  keep  in  amall  bottles,  sealed  up. 

Lemon  Pickle 

Wipe  six  lemons;  cut  each  into  eight  pieces:  put  on  them 
a  pound  of  salt,  six  large  cloves  of  garlic,  two  ounces  of 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


127 


horseradish,  sliced  thin;  likewise  of  cloves,  mace,  nutmeg,  and 
cayenne,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each,  and  two  ounces  of  flour 
of  mustard;  to  these  put  two  quarts  of  vinegar:  boil  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  in  a  well  tinned  saucepan,  or  set  the  jar  on  a  hot 
hearth  till  done.  Set  the  jar  by,  and  stir  it  daily  for  six 
weeks.  Keep  the  jar  closely  covered. 
Put  into  small  bottles. 

Shallot  Vmegar 

Split  six  or  eight  shallots;  put  them  into  a  quart  bottle: 
fill  it  up  with  vinegar:  stop  it ;  and  in  a  month  it  will  be  fit  for 
use. 

Essence  of  Anchovies 

Take  a  dozen  of  anchovies,  chop  them,  and  without  the 
bone,  but  with  their  own  liquor  strained;  add  them  to  sixteen 
large  spoonfuls  of  water:  boil  gently  till  dissolved,  which  will 
be  in  a  few  minutes.    When  cold,  strain  and  bottle  it. 

Mushroom  Catsup 

Take  the  largest  broad  mushrooms,  break  them  into  an 
earthen  pan,  strew  salt  over  them,  and  stir  them  now  and 
then  for  three  days.  Then  let  them  stand  for  twelve,  till 
there  is  a  thick  scum  over.  Strain,  and  boil  the  liquor  with 
Jamaica  and  black  peppers,  mace,  ginger,  a  clove  or  two,  and 
some  mustard  seed.  When  cold,  bottle  it,  and  tie  a  bladder 
over  the  cork.  In  three  months  boil  it  again  with  some  fresh 
spice,  and  it  will  then  keep  a  twelve  month. 

Mushroom  Catsup,  Another  Way 

Take  a  stevvpan  full  of  the  large  flap  mushrooms,  that  arc 
not  worm-eaten,  and  the  skins  and  fringe  of  those  you  have 
picked  ;  throw  a  handful  of  salt  among  them,  and  set  them  by 
a  slow  fire.  They  will  produce  a  great  deal  of  liquor,  which 
you  must  strain  ;  and  put  to  it  four  ounces  of  shallots,  two 
cloves  of  garlic,  a  good  deal  of  pepper,  ginger,  mace,  cloves, 
and  a  few  bay  leaves.  Boil  and  skim  very  well.  When  cold, 
cork  close.  In  two  months  boil  it  up  again,  with  a  little  fresh 
spice,  and  a  stick  of  horseradish,  and  it  will  then  keep  the 
year,  which  mushroom  catsup  rarely  does,  if  not  boiled  a 
second  time. 


128 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Walnut  Catsup  of  the  Finest  Sort 

Boil  a  gallon  of  the  expressed  juice  of  walnuts  when  they 
are  tender,  and  skim  well :  then  put  in  two  pounds  of  ancho- 
vies, bones  and  liquor,  two  pounds  of  shallots,  one  ounce  of 
cloves,  one  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce  of  pepper,  and  one  clove 
of  garlic.  Let  all  simmer  till  the  shallots  sink  :  then  put 
the  liquor  into  a  pan  till  cold.  Bottle  and  divide  the  spice  to 
each.    Cork  closely,  and  tie  a  bladder  over. 

It  will  then  keep  twenty  years,  and  is  not  good  the  first. 
Be  very  careful  to  express  the  juice  at  home  :  for  it  is  rarely 
unadulterated,  if  bought. 

Some  people  make  the  liquor  of  the  outside  shell  when 
the  nut  is  ripe  ;  but  neither  the  flavor  nor  the  color  is  then 
so  fine. 

Cockle  Catsup 

Open  the  cockles :  scald  them  in  their  own  liquor  :  add 
a  little  water  when  the  liquor  settles,  if  you  have  not  enough: 
strain  through  a  cloth,  then  season  with  savory  spice  :  and  if 
for  brown  sauce,  add  port  wine,  anchovies,  and  garlic  ;  if  for 
white,  omit  these,  and  put  a  glass  of  sherry  wine,  lemon-peel 
and  juice,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  white  pepper.  If  for  brown, 
burn  a  bit  of  sugar  for  coloring. 

It  is  better  to  have  cockles  enough,  than  to  add  water, 
as  they  are  cheap. 

Mushroom  Powder 

Wash  half  a  peck  of  large  mushrooms  while  quite  fresh, 
and  free  them  from  grit  and  dirt  with  flannel.  Scrape  out 
the  back  part  clean,  and  do  not  use  any  that  is  worm-eaten  : 
put  them  in  a  stewpan  over  the  fire  without  water,  with  two 
large  onions,  some  cloves,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  and 
two  spoonfuls  of  white  pepper,  all  in  powder.  Simmer  and 
shake  them  till  all  the  liquor  be  dried  up,  but  be  careful  they 
do  not  burn.  Lay  them  on  tins  or  sieves  in  a  slow  oven,  till 
they  are  dry  enough  to  beat  to  powder  ;  then  put  the  powder 
in  small  bottles,  corked  and  tied  closely,  and  keep  in  a  dry 
place. 

A  teaspoonful  will  give  a  very  fine  flavor  to  any  sauce ; 
and  it  is  to  be  added  just  before  serving,  and  one  boil  given  to 
it  after  it  has  been  put  in. 


RESPECTING  THE  POOR 

I  promised  a  few  hints,  to  enable  every  family  to  assist 
the  poor  of  their  neighborhood  at  very  trivial  expense,  and 
these  may  be  varied  or  amended  at  the  discretion  of  the  mis7- 
tress. 

Where  the  oven  is  hot,  a  large  pudding  may  be  baked, 
and  given  to  a  sick  or  young  family,  and  thus  made,  the 
trouble  is  little.  Into  a  deep  coarse  pan  put  half  a  pound  of 
rice,  four  ounces  ol  coarse  sugar,  or  treacle,  two  quarts  of  milk, 
_and  two  ounces  of  dripping,  set  it  cold  in  the  oven.  It  will 
take  a  good  while,  but  will  be  an  excellent  solid  food. 

A  very  good  meal  may  be  bestowed  in  a  thing  called 
Brewis,  which  is  thus  made:  cut  a  very  thin  crust  of  bread 
and  put  it  into  the  pot  where  salt  beef  is  boiling  and  nearly 
ready,  it  will  attract  seme  of  the  fat,  and  when  swelled  out,* 
will  be  no  unpalatable  dish  to  those  who  rarely  taste  meat. 

A  Baked  Soup 

Put  a  pound  of  any  kind  of  meat  cut  in  slices,  two  onions, 
two  carrots,  two  ounces  of  rice,  a  pint  of  split  peas,  or  whole 
ones  if  previously  soaked,  pepper  and  salt,  into  an  earthen 
jug  or  pan,  and  pour  one  gallon  of  water.  Cover  it  very  close, 
and  bake  it  with  bread. 

The  cook  should  be  charged  to  save  the  boiling  of  every 
piece  of  meat,  ham,  tongue,  etc.,  however  salt,  as  it  is  easy  to 
use  only  a  part  of  that,  and  the  rest  of  fresh  water,  and  by  the 
addition  of  more  vegetables,  the  bones  of  the  meat  used  in  the 
family,  the  pieces  of  meat  that  come  from  the  table  on  the 
plates,  and  rice,  scotch  barley,  or  catmeal,  there  will  be  some 
gallons  of  nutritious  soup  two  or  ihree  times  a  week.  The 
bits  of  meat  should  be  only  warmed  in  the  soup,  and  remain 
whole,  the  bones  etc.,  boiled  until  they  yield  their  nourish- 
ment. If  the  things  are  ready  to  put  in  the  boiler  as  soon  as 
the  meat  is  served,  it  will  save  lighting  fire  and  second  cook- 
ing. 

Turnips,  carrots,  leeks,  potatoes,  or  any  sort  of  vegeta- 
bles that  are  at  hand  should  be  used. 

(9) 


130 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Should  the  soup  be  poor  of  meat,  that  long  boiling  of  the 
bones  and  different  vegetables  will  afford  better  nourishment 
than  the  laborious  poor  can  obtain,  especially  as  they  are  rare- 
ly tolerable  cooks,  and  have  not  fuel  to  do  justice  to  what  they 
buy,  but  in  every  family  there  is  some  superfluity,  and  if  it  is 
prepared  with  cleanliness  and  care,  the  benefit  will  be  very 
great  to  the  receiver  and  the  satisfaction  no  less  to  the  giver. 

I  found  in  time  of  scarcity,  ten  or  fifteen  gallons  of  soup 
could  be  dealt  out  weekly,  at  an  expense  not  worth  mention- 
ing, though  the  vegetables  weie  bought.  If  in  the  United 
States  abounding  with  opulent  families,  the  quantity  of  ten 
gallons  were  made  in  ten  gentlemen's  houses,  there  would  be 
a  hundred  gallons  of  wholesome  agreeable  food  given  weekly 
for  the  support  of  forty  poor  families,  at  the  rate  of  two  gal- 
lons and  a  half  each. 

What  a  relief  to  the  laboring  husband  instead  of  bread 
and  cheese,  to  have  a  warm  comfortable  meal.  To  the  sick, 
aged,  and  infant  branches,  how  important  an  advantage. 

It  very  rarely  happens,  that  servants  object  to  seconding 
the  kindness  of  their  superiors  to  the  poor,  but  should  the 
cook  in  any  family  think  the  adoption  of  this  plan  too  trouble- 
some, a  gratuity  at  the  end  of  the  winter  might  repay  her,  if 
the  love  of  her  fellow  creatures  failed  of  doing  it,  a  hundred 
fold.  Did  she  readily  enter  into  it,  she  would  never  wash 
away  as  useless  the  peas  or  grits  of  which  soup  or  gruel  had 
been  made,  broken  potatoes,  the  green  heads  of  celery,  the 
necks,  and  feet  of  fowls,  and  particularly  the  shanks  of  mut- 
ton, and  various  other  articles,  which  in  preparing  dinner  for 
the  family  are  thrown  aside. 

Fish  affords  great  nourishment,  and  that  not  by  the  part 
eaten  only,  but  the  bones,  heads,  and  fins,  which  contain  an 
isinglass.  When  the  fish  is  served  let  the  cook  put  by  some 
of  the  water,  and  stew  in  it  the  above,  as  likewise  add  the 
gravy  that  is  in  the  dish,  until  she  obtains  all  the  goodness. 
If  to  be  eaten  by  itself,  when  it  makes  a  delightful  broth,  she 
should  add  a  very  small  bit  of  onion,  some  pepper,  and  a  little 
rice  flour  rubbed  in  smooth  with  it. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 

0  v,-l:-f. 


But  strained  it  makes  a  delicious  improvement  to  the 
meat  soup,  particularly  for  the  sick,  and  when  such  are  to  be 
supplied  the  milder  parts  of  the  spare  bones  and  meat  should 
be  made  of  them  with  little  if  any  of  the  liquor  of  salt  meats. 

The  fat  should  not  be  taken  off  the  broth  or  soup,  as  the 
poor  like  it,  and  are  nourished  by  it. 

The  Following  is  an  Excellent  Soup  for  the  Weakly 

Put  two  cow-heels  and  a  breast  of  mutton  into  a  large 
pan,  with  four  ounces  of  rice,  one  onion,  twenty  Jamaica  pep- 
pers, and  twenty  black  peppers,  a  turnip,  a  carrot,  and  four 
gallons  of  water.    Cover  with  brown  paper,  and  bake. 

Sago 

Put  a  teacupful  of  sago  into  a  quart  of  water,  and  a  bit  of 
lemon-peel;  when  thickened,  grate  some  ginger,  and  add  half 
pint  of  raisin  wine,  brown  sugar,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  Geneva. 

Boil  all  up  together. 

It  is  a  most  supporting  thing  for  those  whom  disease  has 
left  very  feeble. 

Caudle   for  the  Sick 

Set  three  quarts  of  water  on  the  fire,  mix  smooth  as  much 
oatmeal  as  will  thicken  the  whole  with  a  pint  of  cold  water; 
when  boiling  pour  the  latter  in,  and  twenty  Jamaica  peppers 
in  fine  powder,  boil  to  a  good  middling  thickness;  then  add 
sugar,  half  a  pint  of  well  fermented  table-beer,  and  a  glass  of 
gin.    Boil  all. 

This  mess  twice,  and  once  or  twice  of  broth  will  be  of  in- 
calculable service.    Nor  are  the  above  ingredients  expensive. 

There  is  not  a  better  occasion  for  charitable  commisera- 
tion than  when  a  person  is  sick.  A  bit  of  meat  or  pudding- 
sent  unexpectedly  has  often  been  the  means  of  recalling 
a  long  lost  appetite. 


DIRECTIONS  TO  SERVANTS 


To  give  Boards  a  Beautiful  Appearance 

After  washing  them  very  nicely  clean  with  soda  and 
warm  water,  and  a  brush,  wash  them  with  a  very  large  sponge 
and  clean  water.  Both  times  observe  to  leave  no  spot  un- 
touched,and  clean  straight  up  and  down,  'not  crossing  from 
board  to  board,  then  dry  with  clean  cloths,  rubbing  hard  up 
and  down  in  the  same  way. 

The  floors  should  not  be  often  wetted  but  thoroughly 
when  done,  and  once  a  week  dry-rubbed  with  hot  sand,  and  a 
heavy  brush,  the  right  way  of  the  boards. 

The  sides  of  stairs  or  passages  on  which  are  carpets,  or 
floor  cloths,  should  be  washed  with  a  sponge  instead  of  linen 
or  flannel,  and  the  edges  will  not  be  soiled.  Different 
sponges  should  be  kept  for  the  two  above  uses,  and  those  and 
the  brushes  should  be  well  washed  when  done  with,  and  kept 
in  dry  places. 

Floor-cloths 

Should  be  chosen  that  are  painted  on  a  fine  cloth,  that  is 
well  covered  with  the  color,  and  the  flowers  on  which  do  not 
rise  much  above  the  ground,  as  they  wear  out  first.  The 
durability  of  the  cloth  will  depend  much  on  those  two  parti- 
culars, but  more  especially  on  the  time  it  has  been  painted, 
and  the  goodness  of  the  colors.  If  they  have  not  been 
allowed  sufficient  space  for  becoming  thoroughly  hardened,  a 
very  little  use  will  injure  them,  and  as  they  are  very  expen- 
sive articles,  care  in  preserving  them  is  necessary.  It  answers 
to  keep  them  some  time  before  they  are  used,  either  hung  up 
in  a  dry  barn  where  they  will  have  air,  or  laid  down  in  a  spare 
room.  When  taken  up  for  the  winter,  they  should  be  rolled 
round  a  carpet  roller,  and  observe  not  to  crack  the  paint  by 
turning  the  edges  in  too  close.  Old  carpets  answer  extremely 
well,  painted  and  seasoned  some  months  before  laid  down.  If 
for  passages,  the  width  must  be  directed  when  they  are  sent 
to  the  manufactory,  as  they  cut  before  painting. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


To  Clean  Floor-cloths 

Sweep,  then  wipe  them  with  a  flannel,  and  when  all  dust 
and  spots  are  removed,  rub  with  a  waxed  flannel,  and  then 
with  a  dry,  but  plain  one;  use  little  wax,  and  rub  only  enough 
with  the  latter  to  give  a  little  smoothness,  or  it  may  endanger 
falling. 

Washing  now  and  then  with  milk  after  the  above  sweep- 
ing, and  dry-rubbing  them  give  as  beautiful  a  look,  and  they 
are  less  slippery. 

To  take  the  Black  off  the  Bright    Bars  of  Polished 
Stoves  in  a   Few  Minutes 

Rub  them  well  with  some  of  the  following  mixture  on  a 
bit  of  broadcloth,  when  the  dirt  is  removed;  wipe  them  clean, 
and  polish  with  glass  and  sand  paper. 

The  Mixture 

Boil  slowly  one  pound  of  soft  soap  in  two  quarts  of  water 
to  one.  Of  this  jelly  take  three  or  four  spoonfuls,  and  mix  to 
a  consistence  with  emery  number  three. 

To  Clean  the  Back  of  the  Grate,  the  Inner  Hearth  and 
the  Fronts  of  Cast-iron  Stoves 

Boil  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  black  lead, 
with  a  pint  of  small  beer,  and  a  bit  of  soap  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  When  that  is  melted,  dip  a  painters  brush,  and  wet 
the  grate,  having  first  brushed  off  all  the  soot  and  dust,  then 
take  a  hard  brush,  and  rub  it.  of -a  beautiful  brightness. 

Another  Way  to  Clean  Cast-iron  and  Black  Hearth 

Mix  black  lead  and  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  together, 
dip  a  painter's  brush,  and  wet  all  over,  then  rub  it  bright 
with  a  hard  brush. 

To  Preserve  Irons   from  Rust 

Melt  fresh  mutton  suet,  smear  over  the  iron  with  it 
while  hot,  then  dust  it  well  with  unslacked  lime  pounded,  and 
tied  up  in  a  muslin.    Irons  so  prepared  will  keep  many 


*34 


The  Sou  then i  Cookbook 


months.  Use  no  oil  for  ihem  at  any  time,  except  salad  oil, 
there  being  water  in  all  others. 

Fire-irons  should  be  kept  wrapped  in  baize,  in  a  dry  place, 
when  not  used. 

To  Clean  Tin   Covers,  and  Patent  Pewter  Porter  Pots 

Get  the  hnest  whiting,  which  is  omVy  sold  in  large  cakes, 
the  small  being  mixed  with  sand,  mix  a  little  of  it  powdered 
with  the  least  drop  of  sweet  oil,  and  rub  well,  and  wipe  clean, 
then  dust  some  dry  whiting  in  a  muslin  bag  over,  and  rub 
bright  with  drv  leather.  The  last  is  to  prevent  rust,  which 
the  cook  must  be  careful  to  guard  against,  by  wiping  dry,  and 
putting  by  the  fire  wrhen  they  come  from  the  parlors,  for  if 
but  once  hung  up  without,  the  steam  will  rust  the  inside. 

To  Take  Rust    out  of  Steel 

Cover  the  steel  with  sweet  oil,  well  rubbed  in  it,  and  in 
forty  eight  hours  use  unslacked  lime  finely  powdered,  and 
rub  until  all  the  rust  disappears. 

To   Clean  Stone  Stairs   and  Halls 

Boil  a  pound  of  pipemaker's  clay  with  a  quart  of  water,  a 
quart  of  small  beer,  and  put  in  a  bit  of  blue  stone.  Wash 
with  this  mixture,  and  when  drv,  rub  the  stones  with  flannel, 
and  a  brush. 

To  Clean  Paperhangings 

First  blow  off  the  dust  with  the  bellows,  divide  a  white 
loaf  of  two  davs  old  into  eight  parts.  Take  the  crust  in 
your  hand,  and  beginning  at  the  top  of  the  paper,  wipe  down- 
wards in  the  lightest  manner  with  the  cramb.  -Do  not  cross  or 
go  upwards.  The  dirt  off  the  paper  and  the- crumbs  will  fall 
together.  Observe,  you  must  not  wipe  above  half  a  yard  at  a 
jstroke  and  after  doing  all  the  upper  part  go  round  again, 
beginning  a  little  above  where  you  left  off;  if  you  do  not  do 
it  extremely  lightly,  you  will  make  the  dust  adhere  to  the 
paper.    It  will  look  like  new  if  properlv  done. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


J  35 


To  Clean  Paint 

Never  use  a  cloth,  but  take  off  the  dust  with  a  little  long 
haired  brush,  after  blowing  off  the  loose  parts  with  the  bellows- 
Wit  h  care  wash  the  paint.  When  wainscots  require  scouring,  it 
should  be  done  from  top  downwards,  and  the  suds  be  pre- 
vented from  running  on  the  unclean  part  as  much  as  possible 
or  marks. will  be  made  which  will  appear  after  the  whole  be 
finished.  One  person  should  dry  with  old  linen  as  fast  as  the 
other  has  scoured  off  the  dirt  and  washed  the  soda  off. 

To  Clean  Looking. glasses 

Remove  the  fly  stains,  and  other  soils,  by  a  damp  rag,  then 
polish  with  woollen  cloth  and  powder  blue. 

To  Preserve  Gilding  and  Clean  it 

It  is  not  possible  to  prevent  flies  from  staining  the  gild- 
ing without  covering  it,  before  which  blow  off  the  dust,  and 
pass  a  feather  or  clean  brush  over  it,  then  with  strips  of  pa- 
per cover  the  frames  of  your  glasses,  and  do  not  remove  it 
till  the  flies  are  gone. 

Linen  takes  off  the  gilding,  and  deadens  its  brightness, 
it  should  therefore  never  be  used  for  wiping  it. 

Some  means  should  be  used  to  destroy  the  flies,  as  they 
injure  furniture  of  every  kind,  and  the  paper  likewise.  Bot- 
tles hung  about  with  sugar  and  vinegar,  or  beer,  will  attract 
them,  or  fly-water  put  in  the  bottom  of  a  saucer. 

To  Clean  Plate 

Boil  an  ounce  of  prepared  hartshorn  powder  in  a  quart  of 
water.  While  on  the  fire  put  into  it  as  much  plate  as  the  ves- 
sel will  hold,  let  it  boil  a  little,  then  take  it  out,  drain  it  over 
the  saucepan  and  dry  before  the  fire.  Put  in  more  and  serve 
the  same,  till  you  have  done. 

Then  put  into  the  water  some  clean  linen  rags  till  all  te 
soaked  up.  When  dry,  they  will  serve  to  clean  the  plate,  and 
are  the  very  best  things  to  clean  the  brass  locks  and  finger 
plates  of  doors.  When  the  plates  are  quite  dry,  it  must  be 
rubbed  bright  with  leather. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


This  is  a  very  nice  mode. 

Note — In  many  plate  powders  there  is  a  mixture  of  quick- 
silver, which  is  very  injurious  and  among  other  disadvantages, 
it  makes  silver  so  brittle,  that  from  a  fall  it  will  break. 

To  Give  Fine  Color  to  Mahogany- 
Let  the  tables  be  washed  perfectly  clean  with  vinegar, 
having  first  taken  out  any  inkstains  there  may  be  with  spiiits 
of  salt,  but  it  must  be  used  with  the  greatest  care,  and  only 
touch  the  part  affected  and  be  instantly  washed  off. 

Use  the  following  liquid:  into  a  pint  of  cold  drawn  linseed 
oil,  put  four  pennies'  worth  of  alconet  root,  and  two  pennies 
worth  of  rosepink,  in  an  earthen  vessel ;  let  it  remain  all  night, 
then  stirring  well,  rub  some  of  it  all  over  the  tables  with  a 
linen  rag  ;  when  it  has  lain  some  time,  rub  it  bright  with  lin- 
en cloths.  Eating  tables  should  be  covered  with  mats,  oil- 
cloth, or  baize,  to  prevent  staining,  and  be  instantly  rubbed 
when  the  dishes  are  taken  off,  while  still  warm. 

To  Dust  Carpets  and  Floors 

Sprinkle  tea  leaves  on  them,  then  sweep  carefully.  The 
former  should  not  be  swept  frequently  with  a  whisk  brush  as  it 
wears  them  fast,  but  once  a  week,  and  the  other  times  with 
the  leaves  and  a  hair  brush. 

To  Clean  Carpets 

Take  up  the  carpet,  let  it  be  well  beaten,  then  laid  down, 
and  brushed  on  both  sides  with  a  hand  brush.  Turn  it  the 
right  side  upwards,  and  scour  it  with  ox  gall,  soap  and 
water,  very  clean,  and  dry  it  with  linen  cloths. 

To  Take  Stains  out  of  Marble 

Mix  unslacked  lime  in  finest  powder  with  the  strongest 
soap-lye  pretty  thick,  and  instantly,  with  a  painter's  brush  lay 
it  on  the  whole  of  the  marble.  In  two  months'  time  wash  it 
off  perfectly  clean,  then  have  ready  a  fine  thick  lather  of  soft 
soap,  boiled  in  soft  water,  dip  a  brush  in  it,  and  scour  the 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


137 


marble  with  powder,  not  as  common  cleaning.  This  will  be 
very  good  rubbing,  and  give  a  beautiful  polish.  Clear  off  the 
soap  and  fi  nish  with  a  smooth  hard  brush,  till  the  end  be  effect- 
ed. 

To  Clean  Calico  Furniture  when  Taken  for  the  Summer 

Shake  off  the  loose  dust,  then  lightly  brush  with  a  small 
long-haired  brush,  after  which  wipe  it  closely  with  clean  flan- 
nels, and  rub  it  with  dry  bread. 

If  properly  done,  the  curtains  will  look  nearly  as  well  as 
at  first. 

Fold  in  large  parcels,  and  put  carefully  by. 

While  the  furniture  remains  up,  it  should  be  preserved 
trom  the  sun  and  air  as  much  as  possible,  which  injures  deli- 
cate colors,  and  the  dust  may  be  blown  off  with  bellows. 

To  Preserve  Furs  and  Woollens  from  Moths 

Let  the  former  be  occasionally  combed  while  in  use,  and 
the  latter  be  brushed  and  shaken.  When  not  wanted,  dry 
them  first,  let  them  be  cool,  then  mix  among  them  little  ap- 
ples from  the  apothecary's  in  small  muslin  bags,  sewing  them 
in  several  folds  of  linen,  carefully  turned  in  at  the  edges. 


MEATS,  ETC, 


Podovies,  or  Beef  Patties 

Shred  rare-done  dressed  beef,  with  a  little  fat;  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  shallot  or  onion.  Make  a  plain  paste, 
roll  it  thin,  and  cut  it  in  shape  like  an  apple  puff;  fill  it  with 
the  mince,  pinch  the  edges,  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown.  The 
paste  should  be  made  with  a  small  quantity  or  butter,  egg,  and 
milk. 

Beef  Palates 

Simmer  them  in  water  several  hours,  till  they  will  peel; 
then  cut  the  palates  in  slices,  or  leave  them  whole,  as  you 
choose,  and  stew  them  in  a  rich  gravy,  till  as  tender  as  pos- 
sible. Before  you  serve,  season  with  cayenne,  salt,  and 
catsup.  Tf  the  gravy  was  drawn  clear,  add  to  the  above  some 
butter  and  flour. 

Beef  Cakes  for  Side  of  Dressed  Meat 

Pound  some  beef  that  is  rare-done,  with  a  little  fat  bacon 
or  ham.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  shallot  or  garlic; 
mix  them  well,  and  make  into  small  cakes  three  inches  long, 
and  half  as  wide  and  thick;  fry  them  a  light  brown,  and  serve 
them  in  a  good  thick  gravy. 

Potted  Beef 

Take  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  rub  it  with  saltpetre,  and 
let  it  lie  one  night;  then  salt  with  common  salt,  and  cover  it 
with  water  four  days,  in  a  small  pan.  Dry  it  with  a  cloth,  and 
season  with  pepper;  lay  it  into  as  small  a  pan  as  will  hold  it; 
cover  it  with  coarse  paste,  and  bake  it  five  hours  in  a  very 
cool  oven.    Put  no  liquor  in. 

When  cold,  pick  out  the  strings  and  fat;  beat  the  meat 
very  fine  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  butter  just  warm, 
but  not  boiled,  and  as  much  of  the  gravy  as  will  make  it  into  a. 
paste.  Put  it  into  very  small  pots,  and  cover  them  with  melted 
butter. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


139 


Another  Way 

Take  beef  that  has  been  dressed,  either  boiled  or  roasted; 
beat  in  a  mortar  with  some  pepper,  salt,  a  few  cloves,  grated 
nutmeg,  a  little  fine  butter  just  warm. 

This  eats  well,  but  the  color  is  not  fine, 

Hessian  Soup  and  Ragout 

Clean  the  root  of  a  tongue  very  nicely,  and  half  an  ox 
head,  with  salt  and  water,  and  soak  them  afterwards  in  plain 
water;  then  stew  them  in  five  or  six  quarts  of  water  till  toler- 
ably tender.  Let  the  soup  stand  to  be  cold;  take  off  the  cake 
of  fat,  which  will  make  good  paste  for  hot  meat  pies  or  serve 
to  baste.  Put  to  the  soup  a  pint  of  split  peas,  or  a  quart  of 
whole,  twelve  carrots,  six  turnips,  six  potatoes,  six  large  on- 
ions a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  two  heads  of  celery.  Sim- 
mer them  without  the  meat,  till  the  vegetables  are  done 
enough  to  pulp  with  the  peas  through  a  sieve,  when  the  soup 
will  be  about  the  consistency  of  cream.  Season  it  with  pepper, 
salt,  mace,  pimento,  a  clove  or  two,  and  a  little  cayenne,  all  in 
the  finest  powder.  If  the  peas  are  bad,  the  soup  may  not  be 
thick  enough;  then  boil  in  it  a  slice  of  roll,  and  put  through 
the  colander;  or  put  a  little  rice  flour,  mixing  it  by  degrees. 

The  Ragout 

Cut  the  nicest  part  of  the  head  in  small  thick  pieces,  the 
kernels,  and  part  of  the  fat  of  the  root  of  the  tongue.  Rub 
with  these  some  of  the  same  seasoning,  as  you  put  them  into  a 
quart  of  the  liquor,  kept  out  for  that  purpose  before  the  vege- 
tables were  added;  flour  well,  and  simmer  them  till  nicely 
tender.  Then  put  a  little  mushroom- and  walnut  catsup,  a  lit- 
tle soy,  and  a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  teaspoonful  of  made  must- 
ard; and  boil  up  together  before  served. 

If  tor  company,  small  eggs  and  forcemeat  balls. 

This  mode  furnishes  an  excellent  soup,  and  a  ragout  at 
small  expense,  and  they  are  uncommon.  The  other  part  will 
warm  for  the  family. 


HO 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Stewed  Ox-cheek,  Plain 

Soak  and  cleanse  a  fine  cheek  the  day  before  you  would 
have  it  eaten.  Put  it  into  a  stewpot  that  will  cover  close, 
with  three  quarts  of  water;  simmer  it  after  it  has  first  boiled 
up  and  been  well  skimmed.  In  two  hours  put  plenty  of  car- 
rots, leeks,  two  or  three  turnips,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some 
whole  pepper,  and  four  Jamaicas.  Skim  frequently.  When 
the  meat  is  tender,  take  it  out;  let  the  soup  get  cold;  remove 
the  cake  of  fat,  and  serve  it  separate,  or  with  the  meat. 

It  should  be  of  a  fine  brown,  which  may  be  done  by  burnt 
sugar,  or  by  frying  some  onions  quite  brown  with  flour,  and 
added,  simmering  them  with  it.  The  latter  improves  the  flav- 
or, boiled  in,  and  strained  off. 

To  Dress  an  Ox-cheek  Another  Way 

Soak  half  a  head  three  hours,  and  clean  it  with  plenty  of 
water.  Take  the  meat  off  the  bones;  put  it  into  a  pan  with  a 
large  onion,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some  bruised  pimento, 
pepper,  and  salt. 

Lay  the  bones  on  the  top;  pour  on  two  or  thee  quarts  of 
water;  cover  the  pan  close  with  brown  paper,  or  a  dish  that  will 
fit  close.  Let  it  stand  eight  or  ten  hours  in  a  slow  oven,  or 
simmer  it  bv  the  side  of  the  fire,  or  on  a  hot  hearth.  When 
done  tender,  let  it  go  cold,  having  moved  the  meat  into  a  clean 
pan.  Take  the  cake  of  fat  off  and  warm  the  head  in  pieces  in 
the  soup.    Put  what  vegetables  you  choose. 

Marrow  Bones 

Cover  the  top  with  floured  cloth;  boil,  and  serve  with  dry 
toast. 

To  Dress  the  Inside  of  a  cold  Sirloin  of  Beef 

Cut  out  all  the  meat,  and  a  little  fat,  in  pieces  as  thick  as 
your  finger,  and  two  inches  long.  Dredge  with  flour,  and  fry 
in  butter,  of  a  nice  brown.  Drain  the  butter  from  the  meat, 
and  toss  up  in  a  rich  gravy,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  an- 
chovy, and  shallot.  On  no  account  let  it  boil.  Before  you 
serve,  add  two  spoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Garnish  with  crimped  parsley. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


141 


Fricassee  of  Cold  Roast  Beef 

Cut  the  beef  into  very  thin  slices  :  shred  a  handful  of 
parsley  very  small  :  cut  an  onion  in  quarters,  and  put  all 
together  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  piece  of  butter,  and  some 
strong  broth.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  simmer  veiy 
gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  then  mix  into  it  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  a  glass  of  port  wine,  and  a  spoonful  of  vinegar:  stir 
it  quickly,  and,  rubbing  the  dish  with  shallot,  turn  the  fricas- 
see into  it. 

To  Dress  Cold  Beef  that  Has  not  Been  done  Enough,  Called 

Beef  Olives 

Cut  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fcur  square  :  lay 
on  them  a  forcemeat  of  crumbs  of  bread,  shallot,  a  little  suet 
or  fat,  pepper,  and  salt.  Roll  them  and  fasten  with  a  small 
skewer.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  some  gravy  made 
of  the  beef  bones,  or  the  gravy  ot  the  meat,  and  a  spoonful  or 
two  of  water,  and  stew  them  till  tender.  ,  Fresh  meat  will  do. 

To  Dress  the  same ;  Called  Cecils 

Mince  any  kind  of  meat,  crumbs  of  bread,  a  gocd  deal  of 
onion,  some  anchovies,  lemon-peel,  salt,  nutmeg,  chopped 
parsley,  and  pepper,  and  a  bit  of  butter  warm,  and  mix  these 
over  a  fire  for  a  few  minutes.  When  cool  enough,  make 
them  up  into  balls  of  the  size  and  shape  of  a  turkey's  egg, 
with  an  egg.  Fry  them,  when  sprinkled  with  fir.e  crumbs,  of 
a  yellow  brown,  and  serve  with  gravy. 

To  Dress  the  same  ;  Called  Sanders 

Mince  small  beef  or  mutton,  onion,  pepper,  and  salt  ;  add 
a  little  gravy:  put  in  scallop-shells  or  saucers;  make  three 
parts  full;  then  fill  them  up  with  potatoes,  mashed  with 
a  little  cream  ;  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  top,  and  brown 
them  in  an  oven,  or  before  the  fire. 

Minced  Beef 

Shred  fine  the  under-done  part,  with  some  of  the  fat- 
Put  into  a  small  stewpan,  some  onion,  or  shallot  (a  very  little 
will  do)  a  little  water,  pepper,  and  salt:  boil  till  the  onion  is 


142 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


quite  soft  ;  then  put  some  of  the  gravy  of  the  meat  to  it,  and 
the  mince.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  Having  a  small  hot  dish,  with 
sippets  of  bread  ready,  pour  the  mince  into  it ;  but  first  mix  a 
large  spoonful  of  vinegar  with  it :  or,  if  the  shallot  vinegar, 
there  will  be  no  need  of  the  onion,  or  raw  shallot. 

Hashed  Beef 

Do  the  same,  only  the  meat  is  to  be  in  slices  ;  and  you 
may  add  a  spoonful  of  walnut  liquor  or  catsup. 

Observe,  that  it  is  owing  to  boiling  hashes  or  minces, 
that  thev  are  hard.  All  sorts  of  stews,  or  meat  dressed 
second  hand,  should  only  be  simmered  ;  and  the  latter  only 
hot  through. 

To  Preserve  Suet  a  Twelvemonth 

As  soon  as  it  comes  in,  choose  the  .firmest  part,  and  pick 
free  from  skin  and  veins.  In  a  very  nice  saucepan,  set  it  at 
some  distance  from  the  fire,  that  it  may  melt  without  frying, 
or  it  will  taste. 

When  melted,  pour  it  into  a  pan  of  cold  water.  When  in 
a  hard  cake,  wipe  it  very  dry  :  fold  it  in  fine  paper,  and  then 
in  a  linen  bag,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  When  used,  scrape 
it  fine  ;  and  it  will  make  a  fine  crust,  either  with  or  without 
butter. 

Round  of  Beef 

Should  be  carefully  salted,  and  wet  with  the  pickle  for 
eight  or  ten  days.  The  bone  should  be  cut  out  first,  and  the 
beef  skewered  and  filleted,  to  make  it  quite  round.  It  may 
be  stuffed  with  parsley,  if  approved;  in  which  case,  the  holes 
to  admit  it  must  be  made  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife,  and  the 
parsley  coarsely  cut  and  stuffed  in  tight.  As  scon  as  it  boils, 
it  should  be  skimmed,  and  afterwards  kept  boiling  very 
gently. 

To  Roast  Tongue  and  Udder 

After  cleaning  the  tongue  well,  salt  it  with  common  salt 
and  saltpetre  three  days  ;  then  boil  it,  and  likewise  a  fine 
young  udder,  and  some  fat  to  it,  till  tolerably  tender  ;  then 


The  Southern  Cookbook  143 

tie  the  thick  part  of  one  to  the  thin  part  of  the  other,  and 
roast  the  tongue  and  udder  together. 

Serve  them  with  a  good  gravy,  and  currant-jelly  sauce. 
A  few  cloves  should  be  stuck  in  the  udder. 

This  is  an  excellent  dish. 

To  Pickle  Tongue  for  Boiling 

Cut  off  the  root,  leaving  a  little  of  the  kernel  and  fat. 
Sprinkle  some  salt,  and  let  it  drain  from  the  slime  till  next 
day  :  then,  for  each  tongue,  mix  a  large  spoonful  of  common 
salt,  the  same  of  coarse  sugar,  and  about  half  as  much 
of  saltpetre ;  rub  it  in  well,  and  do  so  every  clay.  In  a 
w7eek  add  another  heaped  spoonful  of  salt.  If  rubbed  every 
day,  a  tongue  will  be  ready  in  a  fortnight,  but,  if  only  turned 
in  the  pickle  daily,  it  will  keep  four  or  five  weeks,  without 
being  too  salt. 

If  you  dry  tongues,  write  the  date  on  a  parchment  and 
tie  on.    Smoke  them,  or  plainly  dry  if  you  like  best. 

When  to  be  dressed,  boil  it  extremely  tender :  allow  five 
hours  ;  and  if  done  sooner,  it  is  easily  kept  hot.  The  longer 
kept  after  drying,  the  higher  it  will  be;  if  hard,  it  may 
require  soaking  three  or  four  hours. 

Another  Way 

Clean  as  above.  For  two  tongues,  one  ounce  of  salt- 
petre, and  one  ounce  of  sal-prunella.  Rub  them  well.  In 
two  days,  having  well  rubbed  them,  cover  them  with  common 
salt.  Turn  them  daily  for  three  weeks  ;  then  dry,  rub  in 
bran,  and  paper  or  smoke  them.  In  ten  days  they  will  be  fit 
to  cut  if  not  dried. 

Beef  Heart 

Wash  with  care.  Stuff  as  you  do  hare,  and  serve  with 
rich  gravy,  and  currant  jelly  sauce. 

Hash  with  the  same,  and  port  wine. 


144 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Tripe 

Tripe  may  be  served  in  a  tureen,  stewed  with  milk  and 
onion  till  tender.    Melted  butter  for  sauce. 

Or,  fried  in  small  bits  dipped  in  butter;  or  slew  the  thin 
part  cut  in  bits,  in  gravy,  and  thicken  with  flour  and  butter, 
and  add  a  little  catsup:  or  fricasseed  with  white  sauce. 

Bubble  and  Squeak 

Boil,  chop,  and  fry,  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
some  cabbage,  and  la}-  on  it  slices  of  rare-done  beef,  lightly 
fried 

Stewed  Tongue 

In  both  the  following  recipes,  the  roots  must  be  taken 
off  the  tongue  before  salted. 

Salt  a  tongue  with  saltpetre  and  common  salt- for  a  week, 
turning  it  daily.  Boil  it  tender  enough  to  peel.  When  done, 
stew  it  in  a  moderately  strong  gravy.  Season  with  soy,  mush- 
room catsup,  cayenne,  pounded  cloves,  and  salt,  if  necessary. 

Serve  with  truffles,  morels,  and  mushrooms. 

An  Excellent  Mode  of  Doing  Tongues  to  eat  Cold 

Season  with  common  salt  and  saltpetre,  brown  sugar,  a 
little  bay  salt,  pepper,  cloves,  mace,  and  pimento,  in  finest 
powder,  for  fourteen  days:  then  remove  the  pickle,  put  it  in  a 
small  pan,  and  lay  some  butter  on  it;  cover  with  a  brown  crust, 
and  bake  slowly,  till  so  tender  that  a  straw  will  pierce  it. 

The  thin  part  of  tongues,  if  hung  up  to  become  dry,  grate 
as  hung  beef,  and  likewise  make  a  fine  addition  to  the  flavor 
of  omelets. 

Leg  of  Veal 

Let  the  fillet  be  cut  large  or  small,  as  best  suits  the  num- 
ber of  your  company.  The  bone  being  taken  out,  fill  the  space 
with  a  fine  stuffing,  and  let  it  be  skewered  quite  round,  and 
send  the  large  side  uppermost.  When  half  roasted,  if  not  be- 
fore, put  a  paper  over  the  fat,  and  observe  to  allow  a  sufficient 
time,  and  to  put  it  a  good  distance  from  the  fire,  the  meat  being 
very  solid.    You  may  pot  some  of  it. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


145 


Knuckle 

As  few  people  are  fond  of  boiled  veal,  it  may  be  well  to 
leave  the  knuckle  small,  and  to  take  off  some  cutlets  or  collops, 
before  it  is  dressed;  but  as  the  knuckle  will  keep  longer 
than  the  fillet,  it  is  best  not  to  cut  off  the  slices  till  wanted. 
Break  the  bones,  to  make  it  take  less  room;  and,  washing  it 
well,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  three  onions,  a  blade  of  mace 
01*  two,  and  a  few  pepper-corns;  cover  with  water,  arid  simmer 
it  till  thoroughly  ready.  In  the  mean  time  some  macaroni 
should  be  boiled  with  it,  if  approved;  or  rice,  or  a  little  rice 
flour,  to  give  it  a  small  degree  of  thickness;  but  do  not  pot  too 
much.  Before  served,  add  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  cream,  and 
let  it  come  up  with  or  without  the  meat. 

Or,  fry  the  knuckle,  with  sliced  onion  and  butter,  to  a 
good  brown,  and  have  ready  peas,  lettuce,  onion,  cucumber  or 
two,  stewed  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  an  hour,  then  add  to 
the  veal,  and  stew  till  the  meat  be  tender  enough  to  eat,  not 
to  be  over-done.  Throw  in  pepper,  salt,  and  a  bit  of  shred  mint, 
and  serve  all  together. 

Cutlets  Maintenon 

Cut  slices  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick;  beat  them 
with  a  rolling  pin,  and  wet  them  on  both  sides  with  egg:  dip 
them  into  a  seasoning  of  bread  crumbs,  parsley,  thyme,  knotted 
marjorum,  pepper,  '•salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg  grated:  then  put 
them  in  papers  folded  over,  and  broil  them;  and  have  ready, 
in  a  boat,  melted  butter  with  a  little  mushroom  catsup. 

Cutlets,  another  Way 

Prepare  as  above,  and  fry  them.  Lay  them  in  a  dish,  and 
keep  them  hot.  Dredge  a  little  flour,  and  put  a  bit  of  butter 
into  the  pan;  brown  it;  then  pour  a  little  boiling  water  into  it, 
and  boil  quick.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  catsup,  and  pour 
over  them. 


(10) 


146 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Another  Way 

Prepare  as  before,  and  dress  the  cutlets  in  a  Dutch  oven. 
Pour  over  them  melted  butter  and  mushrooms.  Or,  pepper, 
salt,  and  broil,  especially  neck  steaks.  They  are  excellent 
without  herbs. 

Collops  Dressed  Quick 

Cut  them  as  thin  as  paper,  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  and 
in  small  bits.  Throw  the  skin,  and  any  odd  bits  of  the  veal 
into  a  little  water,  with  a  dust  of  pepper  and  salt:  set  them  on 
the  fire  while  you  beat  the  collops,  and  dip  them  in  a  season- 
ing of  herbs,  bread,  pepper,  silt,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  hav- 
ing first  wetted  them  with  egg;  then  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a 
frying-pan,  and  give  the  collops  a  very  quick  fry;  for  as  they 
are  thin,  two  minutes  will  do  them  on  both  sides.  Put  them 
into  a  hot  dish  before  the  fire,  then  strain  and  thicken  the 
gravy.  Give  a  boil  in  the  frying-pan,  and^pour  over  the  collops. 
A  little  catsup  is  an  improvement. 

Another  Way 

Fry  them  in  butter,  only  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper: 
then  simmer  them  in  gravy,  white  or  brown,  with  bits  of  bacon 
served  with  them. 

If  white,  add  lemon-peel  and  mace,  and  some  cream. 

Veal  Collops 

Cut  long,  thin  collops:  beat  them  welL,  and  lay  on  them  a 
bit  of  thin  bacon  the  same  size;  and  spread  forcemeat  on  that 
seasoned  high,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  garlic  and  cayenne. 
Roll  them;  up,  tight,  about  the  size  of  two  fingers,  but  not 
more  than  t>|Bjj|L three  inches  long.  Put  a  very  small  skewer 
to  fasten  eacSKfn.  Rub  egg  over  them,  and  pour  over  them 
a  rich  brown  gravy. 

Scollops  of  Cold  Veal  or  Chicken 

Mince  the  meat  extremely  small,  and  set  it  over  the  fire, 
with  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little 
cream,  for  a  few  minutes;  tnen  put  it  into  the  scollop-shells  and 
fill  them  with  crumbs  of  bread,  over  which  put  some  bits  of 
butter,  and  brown  them  before  the  fire. 


t 


The  Southern  Cookbook  147 

Veal  or  chicken,  as  above  prepared,  served  in  a  dish,  and 
lightly  covered  with  crumbs  of  bread  fried  (or  they  may  be 
put  on  it  little  heaps),  look  and  eat  well. 

Scotch  Collops 

Cut  veal  in  thin  bits,  about  three  inches  over,  and  rather 
round  :  beat  with  a  rolling  pin  :  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over 
them  ;  dip  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  but- 
ter, of  a  fine  brown  :  pour  it  from  them,  half  a  pint  of  gravy, 
a  little  bit  of  butter  rubbed  into  a  little  flour,  to  which  put  a 
yolk  of  an  egg,  two  large  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a  bit  of 
salt.  Do  not  boil  the  sauce,  but  stir  it  until  of  a  fine  thick- 
ness to  serve  with  the  collops. 

Kidney 

Chop  veal  kidney,  and  some  of  the  fat,  likewise  a  little 
leek  or  onion,  pepper,  and  salt.  Roll  it  up  with  an  egg  into 
balls,  and  fry  them. 

Cold  fillet  makes  the  finest  potted  veal  ;  or  you  may  do  it 
as  follows  : 

Season  a  large  slice  of  fillet,  before  dressed,  with  some 
mace,  pepper-corns,  and  two  or  three  cloves,  and  lay  it  close 
into  a  potting  pan  that  will  just  hold  it,  and  fill  it  up  with 
water,  and  bake  it  three  hours.  Then  pound  it  quite  small  in 
a  mortar,  and  add  salt  to  taste.  Put  a  little  gravy  that  was 
baked,  to  it  in  pounding,  if  to  be  eaten  soon  ;  otherwise,  only 
a  little  butter,  just  melted. 

When  done,  cover  it  over  with  butter. 

To  Pot  Veal  or  Chicken  With  Ham  . 

Cut  off  the  scrag  to  boil,  and  cover  it  with  onion  sauce. 
It  should  be  boiled  in  milk  and  water.  Parsley  and  butter 
may  be  served  with  it,  instead  of  the  former  sauce  ;  or  it  may 
be  stewed  with  whole  rice,  small  onions,  and  pepper-corns, 
with  a  very  little  water ;  or  boiled  and  eaten  with  bacon  and 
greens. 

Best  end,  roasted,  broiled  as  steak,  or  made  into  pies. 


148 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Breast  of  Veal 

Before  roasted  if  large,  the  two  ends  may  be  taken  off 
and  fried  or  stewed,  or  the  whole  may  be  roasted.  Butter 
should  be  poured  over  it. 

If  any  is  left,  cut  the  pieces  in  handsome  sizes,  and  put- 
ting them  into  a  stew  pan,  pour  some  broth  over  it ;  or,  if  you 
have  none,  a  little  water  will  do.  Add  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a 
blade  or  two  of  mace,  some  pepper,  and  an  anchovy.  Stew 
till  the  meat  is  tender  ;  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  and  add 
a  little  catsup  ;  or  the  whole  breast  may  be  stewed,  after  cut- 
ting off  the  two  ends. 

The  sweetbread  is  to  be  served  up  whole  in  the  middle  ; 
and  if  you  have  a  few  mushrooms,  truffles,  and  morels,  stew 
them  with  it,  and  serve. 

Boiled  breast  of  veal,  smothered  with  onion  sauce,  is  an 
excellent  dish,  if  not  old,  or  too  fat. 

Rolled  Breast  of  Veal 

Bone  it,  and  take  off  the  thick  skin  and  gristle,  and  beat 
the  meat  with  a  rolling  pin.  Season  with  herbs  chopped  fine, 
mixed  with  salt,  pepper,  and  mace.  Lay  some  thick  slices  of 
fine  ham,  or  roll  into  it  two  or  three  calves'  tongues  of  a  fine 
red,  and  boiled  first  an  hour  or  two  and  skinned.  Bind  it  up 
tight  in  a  cloth,  and  tape  it.  Set  it  over  the  fire  to  simmer  in 
a  small  quantity  of  water  until  it  is  quite  tender.  Some  hours 
will  be  necessary. 

Lay  it  on  the  dresser  with  a  board  and  weight  on  it  tiii 
quite  cold, 

Pigs'  or  calves'  feet,  boiled  and  taken  from  the  bones, 
may  be  put  in  or  around  it.  The  different  colors,  laid  in  lay- 
ers, look  well  when  cut  ;  the  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  may  be  put 
in  with  beet  root,  grated  ham,  and  chopped  parsley. 

Shoulder  of  Veal 

Cut  off  th«:  knuckle  of  the  shoulder  for  a  stew  or  gravy. 
Roast  the  other  part,  with  stuffing.  You  may  lard  it.  Serve 
with  melted  butter. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


149 


Blade  bone,  with  a  good  deal  of  meat  left  on,  eats  ex- 
tremely well  with  mushroom  or  oyster  sauce  ;  or  mushroom 
catsup  in  butter. 

Different   Ways  of  Dressing  Calf's  Head 
To  Boil 

Clean  it  very  nicely,  and  soak  it  in  water,  that  it  may  look 
very  white.  Take  out  the  tongue  to  salt,  and  the  brains  to 
make  a  little  dish.  Roil  the  head  extremely  tender;  then 
stew  it  over  with  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley,  and  brown 
them  ;  or  if  preferred,  leave  one  side  plain. 

Bacon  and  greens  are  to  be  served  to  eat  with  it. 

The  brains  must  be  boiled,  and  then  mixed  with  melted 
butter,  chopped  scalded  sage,  pepper,  and  salt. 

If  any  is  left  of  the  head,  it  may  be  hashed  next  day,  and 
a  few  slices  of  bacon  just  warmed  and  put  around  it. 

Cold  calf's  head  eats  well. 

Hashed  Calf's  Head 

When  half  boiled,  cut  off  the  meat  in  slices,  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  two  or  three  inches  long.  Brown  some  butter, 
flour,  and  sliced  onion,  and  throw  in  the  slices  with  some  good 
gravy,  truffles;  and  morels.  Give  it  one  boil,  skim  it  well,  and 
set  it  in  a  moderate  heat  to  simmer  till  tender. 

Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne,  at  first :  and  ten 
minutes  before  serving,  throw  in  some  shred  parsley,  and  a 
very  small  bit  of  tarragon,  and  knotted  marjoram,  cut  as  fine 
as  possible. 

Just  before  you  serve,  add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon.  Force- 
meat balls  and  bits  of  bacon  rolled  round. 

Mock  Turtle 

Bespeak  a  calf's  head  with  the  skin  on  :  cut  in  half,  and 
clean  it  well ;  then  half  boil  it.  Have  all  the  meat  taken  off 
in  square  bits,  and  break  the  bones  of  the  head  ;  boil  them  in 
some  veal  and  beef  broth,  to  add  to  the  richness.  Fry  some 
shallot  in  butter  :  dredge  in  flour  sufficient  to  thicken  the 
gravy,  which  stir  into  the  browning,  and  give  it  one  <  two 


The  Soiithern  Cookbook 


boils:  skim  carefully,  then  put  in  the  head.  Put  in  a  pint  of 
Madeira  wine  and  simmer  till  the  meat  is  quite  tender.  About 
ten  minutes  before  you  serve,  put  in  some  basil,  tarragon,  chives, 
parsley,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  and  two  spoonfuls 
of  mushroom  catsup,  and  one  of  a  soy.  Squeeze  the  juice  of 
a  lemon  into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  upon  it.  Force- 
men  t  balls,  and  small  eggs. 

A  Cheaper  Way 

^Prepare  half  a  calf's  head,  without  the  skin,  as  above. 
When  the  meat  is  cut  off,  break  the  bones,  and  put  into  a 
saucepan,  with  some  gravy  made  of  beef  and  veal  bones,  and 
seasoned  with  fried  onions,  herbs,  mace  and  pepper.  Have 
ready  two  or  three  ox-palates,  boiled  so  tender  as  to  blanch, 
and  cut  in  small  pieces  ;  to  which  a  cow  heel,  likewise  cut  in 
pieces,  is  a  great  improvement.  Brown  some  butter,  flour, 
and  an  onion,  and  pour  the  gravy  to  it  ;  then  add  the  meats  as 
above,  and  stew.  Half  a  pint  of  sherry  wine,  an  anchovy, 
two  spoonfuls  of  walnut  catsup,  the  same  of  mushrooms, 
some  chopped  herbs  as  before.    Balls,  etc. 

Forcemeat  as  for  Turtle,  at  the  Bush,  Bristol 

A  pound  of  fine  fresh  suet,  an  ounce  of  ready-dressed  veal 
or  chicken,  chopped  fine,  crumbs  of  bread,  a  little  shallot  or 
onion,  salt,  white  pepper,  nutmeg,  mace,  pennyroyal,  parsley, 
and  lemon  ;  thyme  finely  shred  ;  beat  as  many  fresh  eggs, 
yolks  and  whites  separately,  as  will  make  the  above  ingredi- 
ents into  a  moist  paste :  roll  into  small  balls,  and  boil  tf  em  in 
fresh  lard,  putting  them  in  just  as  it  boils  up.  When  of  a 
light  brown,  take  them  out,  and  drain  them  before  the  fire. 
If  the  suet  be  moist  or  stale,  a  great  many  more  eggs  will  be 
necessary. 

Balls  made  this  way  are  remarkably  light ;  but  being 

greasy,  some  people  prefer  them  with  less  suet  and  eggs. 

A    ither  Forcemeat,  for  Balls  or  Patties 

Pound  cold  eal  or  chicken  :  take  out  the  strings  :  add 
z  fat  bacon  ;  and,  if  you  like,  the  least  portion  of  scraped 


The  Sou  them i  Cookbook 


ham  :  herbs  as  for  the  preceding :  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
nutmeg,  crumbs  of  bread,  a  little  onion,  and  two  eggs. 

Note — When  forcemeat  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  as  in  pies, 
bacon  is  far  better  than  suet,  and  the  taste  is  always  higher. 

Another  Mock  Turtle 

Put  into  a  pan  a  knuckle  of  veal,  two  fine  cowheels,  two 
onions,  a  few  cloves,  peppers,  Jamaica  peppers,  mace,  and 
sweet  herbs  :  cover  with  water,  and  then,  tying  a  thick  paper 
over  the  pan,  set  it  in  an  oven  for  three  hours.  When  cold, 
take  off  the  fat  very  nicely  :  cut  the  meat  and  feet  into  bits  an 
inch  and  a  half  square  :  remove  the  bones  and  coarser  parts  ; 
then  put  the  other  on  to  warm,  with  walnut  and  mushroom 
catsup,  a  large  spoonful  of  each,  half  a  pint  of  sherry  or  Ma- 
deira wine,  a  little  mushroom  powder,  and  the  jelly  of  the 
meat.  When  hot,  if  it  wants  any  more  seasoning,  add  it,  and 
serve  with  hard  eggs,  forcemeat  balls,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  spoonful  of  soy. 

This  is  a  very  easy  process,  and  the  dish  is  excellent. 

Another  Mock  Turtle 

Stew  a  pound  and  a  half  of  scrag  of  mutton,  with  three 
pints  of  water  to  a  quart  :  then  set  the  broth  on,  with  a  calf's 
foot  and  a  cow  heel  :  cover  the  stewpan  tight,  and  simmer  till 
you  can  cut  off  the  meat  from  the  bones  in  proper  bits.  Set 
it  on  again,  with  the  broth,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Madeiia  or 
sherry  wine,  a  large  onion,  half  a  spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 
a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  two  anchovies,  some  sweet  herbs,  and 
eighteen  oysters  cut  in  pieces,  and  then  chopped  fine,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  the  liquor  of  the 
oysters  :  cover  tight,  and  simmer  three  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Serve  with  forcemeat  balls,  and  hard  eggs  in  a  tureen. 

Note — Cowheels,  with  veai  or  head  are  a  great  improve- 
ment ;  and  if  not  too  much  boiled,  have  a  very  fine  flavor  stew- 
ed for  turtle  ;  and  are  more  solid  than  the  calf's  feet. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Calf's  Head  Pie 

Stew  a  knuckle  of  veal  till  fit  for  eating,  with  two  onions, 
a  few  isinglass  shavings,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a  blade  of  mace, 
and  a  few  pepper-corns,  in  two  quarts  or  less  water.  Keep  the 
broth  for  the  pie.  Take  off  a  bit  of  the  meat  for  the  balls, 
and  let  the  other  be  eaten;  but  simmer  the  bone  in  the 
brothj.int.il  it  is  very  good.  Half  boil  the  head,  and  cut  it 
in  square  bits :  put  a  layer  of  ham  at  the  bottom,  then  some 
head,  first  fat  and  then  lean,  with  balls  and  hard  eggs  cut  in 
half,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  be  full ;  but  be  particularly  care- 
ful not  to  place  the  pieces  close  or  the  pie  will  be  too  solid, 
and  there  will  be  no  space  for  the  jelly.  The  meat  must  first 
be  pretty  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  scrape 
or  two  of  nutmeg.  Put  a  little  water  and  a  little  gravy  into 
the  dish,  and  cover  it  with  a  tolerably  thick  crust :  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  ;  and  when  done,  pour  into  it  as  much  gravy  as 
it  can  hold,  and  do  not  cut  it  till  perfectly  cold  :  in  doing 
which,  observe  to  use  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  first  cut  out  a 
large  bit,  going  down  to  the  bottom  of  the  dish  :  and  when 
done  thus,  the  different  colors,  and  clear  jelly,  have  a  beauti- 
ful marbled  appearance. 

A  small  pie  may  be  made  to  eat  hot ;  which,  with  high 
seasoning,  oysters,  mushrooms,  truffles,  morels,  etc.  has  a 
very  good  appearance. 

The  cold  pie  will  keep  some  days.  Slices  make  a  pretty 
side  dish. 

The  pickled  tongues  of  former  calves'  beads  may  be  cut 
in,  to  vary  the  color,  instead  of,  or  besides  ham. 

Calf's  Head  Fricasseed 

Clean,  and  half  boil,  half  a  head.  Cut  the  meat  in  small 
bits,  and  put  in  a  tosser,  with  a  little  gravy  made  of  the  bones 
and  some  of  the  water  it  was  boiled  in,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
n,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  If  you  have  a  sweet  bread,  or 
young  cockerel  in  the  house,  use  the  cockscombs,  having  first 
boile'"  them  tender  and  blanched.    Season  the  gravy  with  a 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


153 


little  pepper,  nutmeg  and  salt  :  rub  down  some  flour  and  but- 
ter, and  give  all  a  boil  together  ;  then  remove  the  herbs  and 
onions,  and  add  a  little  cup  of  cream,  but  do  not  boil  it  in. 
Serve  with  small  bits  of  bacon  rolled  round,  and  balls. 

Veal  Patties 

Mince  some  veal,  that  is  not  quite  done,  with  a  little 
parsley,  lemon-peel,  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  and  a  little  salt :  add 
a  little  cream  and  gravy  just  to  moisten  the  meat  ;  and  if  you 
have  any  ham,  scrape  a  little  bit  and  add  to  it.  Do  not  warm 
it  till  the  patties  are  baked  ;  and  observe  to  put  a  bit  of  bread 
into  each  to  prevent  the  paste  from  rising  into  the  cake. 

Fricandeau 

Cut  a  large  piece  out  of  the  prime  part  of  a  leg  of  veal 
about  nine  inches  long,  and  half  as  broad  and  thick  :  Beat  it 
with  a  rolling  pin  ;  then  lard  it  very  thickly  on  one  side  and 
the  edges.  Put  it  in  a  small  stewpan,  with  three  pints  of 
water,  a  pound  of  veal  cut  in  small  bits,  and  four  or  five  ounces 
of  lean  ham,  and  an  onion  :  simmer  till  the  meat  is  tender  ; 
then  take  it  out  ;  cover  to  make  moist,  and  boil  the  gravy  till 
it  is  a  fine  brown,  and  much  reduced  :  then  put  the  larded 
meat  back  into  the  gravy  and  pour  a  little  of  it  over  with  a 
spoon.  When  quite  hot  serve  the  meat  and  gravy  around  in 
the  dish,  with  the  following  sauce  in  a  boat. 

Sorrel  Sauce 

Wash  a  quantity  of  sorrel,  and  boil  it  tender  in  the  small- 
est quantity  of  water  you  can :  strain  and  chop  it  :  stew  it 
with  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt  ;  and  if  you  like  it  high, 
add  a  spoonful  of  gravy. 

Be  careful  to  do  it  in  a  very  well-tinned  saucepan  ;  or  if 
you  have  a  silver  one  or  a  silver  mug,  it  is  far  better  ;  as  the 
sorrel  is  very  sour,  especially  in  spring. 

Veal  Olives 

Cut  long  thin  collops  :  beat  them,  and  lay  on  them  thin 
slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  cover  a  layer  of  force. neat  sea  ned 
high,  with  the  addition  of  shred  shallot,  and  cayenne. 


154 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


them  tight,  about  the  size  of  two  fingers,  but  not  more  than 
two  or  three  inches  long  :  fasten  them  around  with  a  small 
skewer  :  rub  egg  over,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown.  Serve 
with  brown  gravy. 

Calf's  Liver 

Sliced  :  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  nicely  broiled. 
Rub  a  bit  of  cold  butter  on  it,  and  serve  hot. 

Roasted 

Wash  and  wipe  it :  then  cut  a  long  hole  in  it,  and  stuff  it 
with  crumbs  of  bread,  chopped  anchovy,  herbs,  a  good  deal  of 
fat  bacon,  onion,  salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  an  egg. 
Sew  the  liver  up ;  then  lard  cr  wrap  it  In  a  veal  caul,  and 
roast  it. 

Serve  with  a  good  brown  gravy,  and  currant-jelly, 

Sweetbreads 

Half  boil,  and  stew  in  a  white  gravy.  Add  cream,  flour, 
butter,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  white  pepper :  or,  in  brown,  season- 
ed :  or,  after  par-boiling,  cover  with  crumbs,  herbs,  seasoning, 
and  brown  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Serve  with  butter,  and  mush- 
room catsup,  or  gravy. 

Sweetbread  Ragout 

Cut  them  about  the  size  of  a  walnut  :  then  fry  a  fine 
brown.  Pour  to  them  a  good  gravy,  seasoned  with  salt,  pep- 
per, allspice,  mushrooms,  or  the  catsup  Strain,  and  thicken 
with  butter,  and  a  little  flour.  You  may  add  truffles,  and 
morels,  and  the  mushrooms. 

Veal  Sausages 

Chop  equal  quantities  of  lean  veal  and  fat  bacon,  a  hand- 
ful of  cage,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  anchovies.  Beat 
all  in  a  mortar  ;  and  when  used,  roll  and  fry,  and  serve  with 

fried  sippets. 

>padbury's  veal  and  pork  sausages,  under  the  article  of 


The  Sou  therm  Cookbook 


155 


To  Make  Excellent  Meat  of  a  Hog's  Head 

Split  the  head,  take  out  the  brains,  cut  off  the  ears,  and 
sprinkle  it  with  common  salt  for  a  day  :  then  drain.  Salt  it 
well  with  common  salt  and  saltpetre  three  days ;  then  lay 
salt  and  head  into  water  (a  small  quantity)  for  two  days. 
Wash  it,  and  boil  it  till  all  the  bones  will  come  out  :  remove 
them,  and  chop  the  head  as  quick  as  possible  ;  having  skinned 
the  tongue,  and  taken  the  skin  carefully  off  the  head,  to  put 
under  and  over.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace  or 
Jamaica.  Put  the  skin  into  a  small  pan  :  press  the  cut  head 
in,  and  put  the  other  skin  over  :  press  it  down.  When  cold, 
it  will  turn  out  and  make  a  kind  of  brawn.  If  too  fat  you  may 
put  a  few  bits  of  lean  pork  to  go  through  the  same  process. 
Add  salt  and  vinegar,  and  boil  some  of  the  liquor  for  a  pickle 
to  keep  it. 

To  Scald  a  Sucking  Pig 

The  moment  the  pig  is  killed,  put  it  into  cold  water  for  a 
few  minutes  ;  then  rub  it  over  with  a  little  rosin,  beaten  ex- 
tremely small,  and  put  it  into  a  pail  of  scalding  water  half  a 
minute  ;  take  it  out,  lay  it  on  a  table,  and  pull  off  the  hair  as 
quickly  as  possible.  If  any  part  does  not  come  off,  put  it  in 
again.  When  perfectly  clean,  wash  it  well  with  warm  water, 
then  in  two  or  three  cold  waters,  lest  any  flavor  of  the  rosin 
should  remain.  Take  off  the  four  feet  at  the  joint  :  make  a 
slit  down  the  belly,  and  take  out  the  entrails  :  put  the  liver, 
heart,  and  lights  to  the  feet  ;  wash  the  pig  well  in  cold  water, 
dry  it  thoroughly,  and  fold  it  in  a  wet  cloth  to  keep  it  from 
the  air. 

To  Roast    a  Sucking  Pig 

If  you  can  get  it  when  just  killed,  it  is  of  great  advantage. 
Let  it  be  scalded,  which  those  who  sell  usually  do.  Then  put 
some  sage,  crumbs  of  bread,  salt,  and  pepper  in  the  bell)',  and 
sew  it  up.  Observe  to  skewer  the  legs  back,  or  the  under 
part  will  not  crisp. 

Lay  it  to  a  brisk  fire  till  thoroughly  dry  ;  then  hav 
some  butter,  in  a  dry  cloth,  and  rub  the  pig  with  it  ir 


1 56 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


part.  Dredge  as'much  flour  over  as  will  possibly  lay,and  touch 
it  no  more  till  ready  to  serve  ;  then  scrape  off  the  flour  with  the 
greatest  care,  with  a  blunt  knife  :  rub  it  well  with  the  buttered 
cloth  :  take  off  the  head  while  yet  at  the  fire,  and  take  out  the 
brains,  and  mix  them  with  the  gravy  that  comes  from  the  pig. 
Then  take  it  up,  and  without  withdrawing  the  spit,  cut  it 
down  the  back  and  belly  :  lay  it  in  the  dish,  and  chop  the  sage 
and  bread  quickly,  as  fine  as  you  can.  and  mix  a  large  quantitv 
of  fine  melted  butter,  which  has  very  little  flour.  Put  the 
sauce  into  the  dish  after  the  pig  has  been  split  down  the  back, 
and  garnish  with  two  ears,  and  the  two  jaws  ;  the  upper  part 
of  the  head  being  taken  off  down  to  the  snout. 

In  Devon,  it  is  served  whole  if  very  small  ;  the  head  only 
being  cut  off. 

Potatoes 

Boil  them,  and  the  liver  and  heart,  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water  verv  gently  :  then  cut  the  meat  fine,  and  simmer  it 
with  a  little  of  the  water  and  the  feet  split,  till  the  latter  be 
:  uite  tender.  Thicken  with  a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  flour, 
a  spoonful  of  cream,  a  little  salt,  and  pepper  :  give  a  boil  up, 
and  pour  over  a  few  sippets  of  bread,  and  put  the  feet  on  the 
mince. 

Porker's  Head,  Roasted 

Choose  a  fine  young  head,  clean  it  well,  and  put  bread 
and  sage  as  for  pig  :  sew  it  up  tight,  and  put  it  on  a  string  or 
hanging  jack.    Roast  it  as  a  pig,  and  serve  with  the  same 

sauce. 

Pig's  Cheek  for  Boiling 

Cut  off  the  snout,  and  clean  the  head:  divide  it,  take  out 
the  eves  and  the  brains,  and  sprinkling  the  head  with  salt, 
let  it  drain  twentv-four  hours.  Salt  it  with  common  salt  and 
saltpetre.  Let  it  lay  eight  or  ten  days,  if  to  be  dressed  with- 
out stewing  \\:«th  peas  ;  bu-t  less,  if  to  be  dressed  with  peas  ; 
-nH  o.'hiust  b«-  washed  first,  and  then  simmered  till  all  is 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


157 


Collard  Head 

Scour  the  head  and  ears  nicely  ;  take  off  the  hair  and 
snout,  and  take  out  the  eyes  and  the  brain  ;  lay  it  in  water 
one  night  ;  then  drain  and  salt  it  extremely  well  with  common 
salt  and  saltpetre,  and  let  it  lay  five  days.  Boil  it  enough  to 
remove  the  bones,  then  lay  it  on  a  dresser,  turning  the  thick 
end  of  one  side  of  the  head  towards  the  thin  end  of  the  other, 
to  make  the  roll  of  equal  size,  sprinkle  it  well  with  salt 
and  white  pepper,  and  roll  it  with  the  ears ;  and  if  you 
approve,  pat  the  pig's  feet  around  the  outside  when  boned  ; 
or  the  thin  parts  of  two  cowheels.  Bind  it  in  a  cloth  and  with 
a  broad  tape,  and  boil  it  till  quite  tender  ;  then  put  a  good 
weight  upon  it,  and  do  not  remove  the  covering  till  cold. 

If  you  choose  it  to  be  more  like  brawn,  salt  it  longer,  and 
let  the  proportion  of  saltpetre  be  greater,  putting  in  some 
pieces  of  lean  pork,  and  then  cover  it  with  cowheels,  to  look 
like  the  horn. 

This  may  be  kept  in  or  out  of  pickle  of  salt  and  water 
boiled  with  vinegar,  and  is  a  very  convenient  thing  to  have 
in  the  house. 

If  likely  to  spoil,  slice  and  fry  it  with  or  without  butter. 

To  Roast  a  Leg  of  Pork 

Choose  a  small  leg  of  fine  young  pork,  cut  a  slit  in  the 
knuckle  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  fill  the  space  with  sage  and 
onion,  chopped,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  When  half  done, 
score  the  skin  in  slices,  but  do  not  cut  deeper  than  the  outer 
rind. 

Apple  sauce  and  potatoes  should  be  served  to  eat  with  it. 

To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Pork 

Salt  it  eight  or  ten  days  ;  when  to  be  dressed,  weigh  it  ; 
let  it  lay  half  an  hour  in  cold  water  to  make  it  white  ;  allow 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  every  pound,  and  half  an  hour  over 
from  the  time  it  boils  up  :  skim  it  as  soon  as  it  boils,  and  fre- 
quently after.  Allow  enough  water.  Save  some  of  it  to 
make  pease  soup.  Some  boil  in  a  very  nice  cloth,  ftuiifed, 
which  gives  a  very  delicate  look. 

Serve  pease  pudding  and  turnips. 


IS8 


TJu  Southern  Cookbook 


Different  Ways  of  Dressing  Pig's  Feet  and  Ears 

Clean  them  carefully,  and  soak  them  some  hours  :  boil 
them  tender  then  take  them  out,  and  with  some  of  the  water 
boil  some  vinegar  and  a  little  salt,  and  when  cold  put  over 
them.  When  to  be  dressed,  dry  them,  divide  the  feet  in  two, 
and  slice  the  ears  ;  fry  and  serve  them  with  butter,  mustard, 
and  vinegar.    They  mav  be  done  in  butter  or  only  floured. 

Feet  and  Ears  Fricasseed 

Put  no  vinegar  in  the  pickle,  if  it  is  to  be  dressed  with 
cream.  Cut  the  feet  and  ears  into  neat  bits,  and  boil  them  in 
a  little  milk  ;  then  pour  that  from  them,  and  simmer  in  a 
little  veal  broth,  with  a  bit  of  onion,  mace  and  lemon-peel. 
Before  vou  serve,  add  a  little  cream,  flour,  butter,  and  salt. 

Jelly  of  Feet  and  Ears 

Clean  and  prepare  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe  ;  then  boil  a 
verv  small  quantity  of  water  until  every  bone  can  be  taken 
out  ;  throw  in  half  a  handful  of  chopped  sage,  the  same  of 
parslev,  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  and  mace,  in  fine  powder; 
simmer  till  the  herbs  are  scalded,  then  pour  the  whole  into  a 
melon  form. 

Pork  Steaks 

Cut  them  from  a  loin  of  neck,  of  middling  thickness  : 
pepper  and  broil  them,  turning  often.  When  nearly  done, 
put  the  salt  necessary,  rub  a  bit  of  butter  over,  and  serve  the 
moment  they  are  taken  off  the  fire  ;  a  few  at  a  time. 

To  Cure  Hams.    First  Way 

Hang  them  a  day  or  two  ;  then  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt, 
and  drain  them  another  day.    Pound  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
saltpetre,  the  same  salt,  half  an  ounce  of  sal-prunel,  and  a 
pound  of  the  coarsest  sugar  ;  mix  these  well  and  rub  into  each 
-verv  dav  for  four  days,  and  turn  it.    If  a  small  one,  turn  it 
x  every  day  r  n  three  weeks  ;  if  a  large  one,  a  week  longer ;  but 
do  not  rub  after  four  days.    Before  you  dry  it,  drain  and 
it h  bran.    Smoke  in  ten  days. 


The  Soil t her  11  Cookbook 


159 


Another  Way.    Second  Way 

Choose  a  leg  of  a  hog  that  is  fat  and  well  fed  ;  hang  as 
above.  To  it,  if  large,  put  in  fine  powder,  one  pound  of  bay 
salt,  four  ounces  saltpetre,  one  pound  of  the  coarsest  sugar, 
and  one  handful  of  common  salt,  and  rub  it  thoroughly.  Lay 
the  rind  downwards,  and  cover  the  fleshy  part  with  the  salts. 
Baste  it  as  often  as  you  can  with  the  pickle,  the  more  the 
better.  Keep  it  four  weeks  in  the  pickle,  turning  it  daily. 
Drain  and  threw  bran  over  it  ;  then  hang  it  in  a  chimney 
where  wood  is  burnt,  and  turn  it  sometimes  for  ten  days. 

Another  Way.    Third  Way 

Hang  the  ham  and  sprinkle  with  salt  as  above,  then  rub 
it  daily  with  the  following  in  fine  powder  :  half  a  pound  of 
salt,  the  same  of  bay  salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  two 
ounces  of  black  pepper,  mixed  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
treacle.  Turn  it  twice  a  day  in  the  pickle  for  three  weeks. 
Lay  it  in  a  pail  of  water  for  one  night,  wipe  it  dry,  and  smoke 
it  two  or  three  weeks. 

Another  way,  that  gives  a  High  Flavor.   Fourth  way 

When  the  weather  will  permit,  hang  the  ham  three  days; 
mix  an  ounce  of  saltpetre  with  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bay 
salt,  ditto  common  salt,  ditto  of  coarsest  sugar,  and  a  quart  of 
strong  beer;  boil  them  together,  and  pour  over  immediately  on 
the  ham,  turn  it  twice  a  day  in  the  pickle  for  three  weeks. 
An  ounce  of  black  pepper,  ditto  of  pimento  in  finest  powder, 
added  to  the  'above,  will  give  still  more  flavor.  Cover  with 
bran  when  wiped,  and  smoke  from  three  to  four  weeks,  as 
you  approve;  the  latter  will  make  it  harder,  and  more  of  the 
flavor  of  Westphalia.  Sew  hams  in  hessings,  i.  e.  coarse  wrap- 
per, if  to  be  smoked  where  there  is  strong  fire. 

A  Method  of  Giving  a  Still  Higher  Flavor 

Sprinkle  the  ham  with  salt  after  it  has  hung  two  or  three 
days;  let  drain;  make  a  pickle  of  a  quart  of  strong  beer,  half  a 
pound  of  treacle,  an  ounce  of  coriander  seeds,  two  ounces  of 
juniper  berries,  an  ounce  of  pepper,  ditto  pimento,  an  ounce 


i6o 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


of  saltpetre,  half  an  ounce  of  sal-prunel, .  a  handful  of  com- 
mon salt,  and  a  head  of  shallot,  all  pounded  or  cut  fine.  Boil 
these  together  a  new  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  ham;  this 
quantity  for  one  of  ten  pounds.  Rub  and  turn  it  every  day, 
for  a  fortnight;  then  sew  it  up  in  a  thin  linen  bag,  and  smoke 
it  three  weeks.  Observe  to  drain  it  from  the  pickle,  and  rub 
it  in  bran  previous  to  drying. 

Hog's  Cheeks,  to  dry 

The  snout  being  cut  off,  the  brains  removed,  and  the 
head  cleft,  but  not  cut  apart  on  the  upper  side,  rub  it  well  with 
the  salt.  Next  day  remove  the  brine,  and  sait  it  again;  the 
following  day  cover  the  head  with  half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre, 
two  ounces  of  bay  salt,  a  little  common,  and  four  ounces  of 
coarsest  sugar.  Let  the  head  be  often  turned.  In  twelve  days 
smoke  for  a  week  like  bacon. 

To  Dress  Hams 

If  long  hung,  put  the  ham  into  water,  and  either  dig  a 
hole  in  the  the  earth,  or  let  it  lie  on  damp  stones,  sprinkled 
with  water  to  mellow,  two  or  three  days,  covering  it  with  a 
heavy  tub,  to  keep  vermin  from  it.  Wash  it  well,  and  put  it 
into  a  boiler  with  plenty  of  water.  Let  it  simmer  four,  five, 
or  six  hours,  according  to  size.  When  sufficiently  done,  if 
before  the  time  of  serving,  cover  it  with  a  clean  cloth  doubled, 
and  keep  the  dish  hot  over  boiling  water.  Remove  the  skin, 
and  strew  raspings  over  the  ham.  Garnish  with  carrot.  Pre- 
serve the  skin  as  whole  as  possible,  to  keep  over  the  ham  when 
cold,  which  will  prevent  its  drying. 

The  Manner  of  Curing  Wiltshire  Bacon 

Sprinkle  each  flitch  with  salt,  and  let  the  blood  drain  off 
for. twenty-four  hours;  then  mix  one  pound  and  a  half  of  coarse 
sugar,  ditto  of  bay  salt,  not  quite  so  much  as  half  a  pound  of 
saltpetre,  and  a  pound  of  common  salt,  and  rub  it  well  on  the 
bacon,  turning  it  every  day  for  a  month;  then  hang  it  to  dry, 
and  afterwards  smoke  it  ten  days.  The  above  salts  are  for  the 
whole  hog. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


161 


To  Pickle  Pork 

The  quantities  proportioned  to  the  middlings  of  a  pretty 
large  hog;  the  hams  and  shoulders  being  cut  off. 

Mix  and  pound  fine  four  ounces  of  saltpetre,  one  ounce 
of  sal-prunel,  and  a  little  common  salt.  Having  sprinkled  the 
pork  with  salt,  and  drained  it  twenty-hours,  rub  it  with  the 
above,  and  then  pack  the  pieces  tight  in  a  small  deep  tub,  fill- 
ing up  the  spaces  with  common  salt.  Place  large  pebbles  on 
the  pork,  to  prevent  it  swimming  in  the  pickle  which  the  salt 
will  produce. 

Sausages 

Chop  fat  and  lean  pork;  season  with  sage,  pepper,  and 
salt;  and  you  may  add  two  or  three  pimentos.  Half  fill  hog's 
guts,  that  have  been  soaked  and  made  extremely  clean,  or  the 
meat  may  be  kept  in  a  very  small  pan,  closely  covered;  and  so 
rolled  and  dusted  with  a  very  little  flour  before  they  are  fried. 

An  Excellent  Sausage  to  Eat  Cold 

Season  fat  and  lean  pork  with  some  salt,  saltpetre,  black 
and  Jamaica  pepper,  all  in  finest  powder,  and  well  rubbed  into 
the  meat.  The  sixth  day  cut  it  small,  and  mix  with  it  some 
shred  shallot,  or  garlic,  as  fine  as  possible.  Have  ready  an 
ox  gut  that  has  been  scoured,  salted  and  soaked  well,  and  fill 
it  with  the  above  stuffing;  tie  up  the  ends,  and  hang  it  to 
smoke  as  you  would  hams;  but  first  wrap  it  in  a  fold  or  two  of 
old  muslin.  It  must  be  high  dried.  Some  eat  it  without 
boiling,  others  like  it  boiled  first.  The  skin  should  be  tied  in 
-different  places,  making  each  link  about  eight  or  nine  inches 
long. 

Spadbury's  Oxford  Sausages 

Chop  a  pound  and  a  half  of  pork,  and  same  of  veal,  cleared 
of  the  skin  and  sinews.  Add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
beef  suet,  mince  and  mix  them.  Steep  the  crumbs  of  a  penny 
loaf  in  water,  and  with  a  little  dried  sage,  pepper,  and  salt, 
mix  with  the  meat. 
(ID 


162 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Black  Puddings 

The  blood  must  be  stirred  with  salt  till  cold.    Put  a  quart 
of  it  or  rather  more,  to  a  quart  of  old  grits,  to  soak  one  night; 
and  soak  the  crumbs  of  a  quarter  loaf  in  rather  more  than  two 
quarts  of  new  milk,  made  hot.    In  the  mean  time  prepare  the 
guts,  by  washing  and  scraping  with  salt  and  water,  and  chang- 
iug  the  water  several  times.    Chop  fine  a  little  winter  sav- 
ory and  thyme,  a  great  deal  of  pennyroyal,  pepper,  salt,  a  few 
cloves,  allspice,  ginger  and  nutmeg.     Mix  these  with  three 
pounds  of  beef  suet,  and  six  eggs  well  beaten  and  strained, 
and  then  beat  the  bread,  grits,  etc.,  all  up  with  the  seasoning. 
When  all  mixed,   have  ready  some  hog  fat  cut  in  large  bits, 
and  as  you  fill  the  skins  put  it  in  at  proper  distances.  Tie 
them  in  links,  having  only  half  filled  them,  and  boil  them  in  a 
large  kettle,  pricking  them  as  they  swell,  or  they  will  burst. 
When  boiled  lay  them  between  clean  cloths  till  cold,  and  hang 
them  up  in  the  kitchen.    When  to  be  used,  scald  them  a  few 
minutes  in  water,  wipe  and  put  them  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

If  there  are  not  sufficient  skins,  put  the  stuffing  in  ba- 
sins, and  boil,  covered  with  floured  cloths;  and  slice  and  fry. 

Black  Puddings,  Another  Way 

Soak  a  quart  of  bruised  grits  in  two  quarts  of  hot  milk, 
or  less,  if  sufficient  to  swell  them.  Chop  a  good  quantity  of 
pennyroyal,  some  savory  and  thyme,  salt,  pepper,  and  Jamaica 
pepper,  finely  powdered.  Mix  the  above  with  a  quart  of  the 
blood,  prepared  as  before  ;  then  half  fill  the  skins,  after  they 
have  been  cleaned  most  thoroughly,  and  put  as  much  of  the 
leaf,  i.  e.  fat  of  the  pig,  as  shall  make  it  very  rich.  Boil  as 
before  directed. 

White  Hog's  Pudding 

WThen  the  skins  have  been  soaked  and  cleaned  as  before 
directed,  rinse  and  soak  them  all  night  in  rosewater,  and  put 
in  them  the  following  filling :  mix  half  a  pound  of  blanched 
almonds,  cut  into  seven  or  eight  bits,  with  one  pound  of  grated 
bread,  two  pounds  of  marrow  or  suet,  one  pound  of  currants, 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


some  beaten  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  a  quart  of 
cream,  yolks  of  six,  and  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  little  orange- 
flower  water,  a  little  fine  Lisbon  sugar,  some  lemon-peel,  and 
citron  sliced,  and  half  fill  the  skins.    Boil  as  before  directed. 

Hog's  Lard 

Should  be  carefully  melted  in  a  jar,  put  into  a  kettle  of 
water,  and  boiled  and  run  into  bladders  that  have  been  ex- 
tremely well  cleaned,  the  smaller  they  are  the  better  the 
lard  keeps  ;  as  after  the  air  reaches  it,  it  becomes  rank.  Put 
in  a  sprig  of  rosemary  when  melted. 

This  being  a  most  useful  article  for  frying  fish,  it  shculd 
be  prepared  with  care.    Mixed  with  butter  it  makes  fine  crust. 

Pig's  Harslet 

Wash  and  dry  some  liver,  sweetbreads,  and  fat  and  lean 
bits  of  pork ;  beating  the  latter,  with  a  rolling  pin  to  make  it 
tender.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  a  little  onion, 
shred  fine.  Put  all  when  mixed  into  a  cawl,  and  fasten  it  up 
tight  with  a  needle  and  thread.  Roast  it  on  a  hanging  jack, 
or  by  a  string;  or  serve  in  slices  with  parsley  for  a  fry. 

Serve  with  sauce  of  port  and  water,  and  mustard  just 
boiled  up,  and  put  into  the  dish. 

Loins  and  Neck  of  Pork  Roast 

Shoulders  and  breasts  put  into  pickle,  salt  the  former  as 
a  leg. 

Rolled  Neck 

Bone  it.  Put  a  forcemeat  of  chopped  sage,  a  very  few 
crumbs  of  bread,  salt,  pepper,  and  two  or  three  pimentos 
over  the  inside.:  then  roll  the  meat  as  tight  as  you  can,  and 
roast  it  slowly,  and  at  a  good  distance  from  the  fire' at  first. 

To  make  a  Pickle  for  Hams,  Tongues,  or  Beef,  that  will 
keep  for  years  if  Skimmed  between  each  Parce.  of  them 

To  two  gallons  of  spring  water,  put  two  pounds  of  coarse 
sugar,  two  pounds  of  bay,  and  two  and  a  half  pounds  of 
common  salt,  and  half  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  in  a  deep  earthen 


1 64 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


glazed  pan,  that  will  hold  four  gallons,  and  has  a  cover  that 
will  fit  close.  Keep  the  beef  or  hams  as  long  as  they  will 
bear,  before  you  put  them  into  the  pickle,  and  sprinkle 
them  with  coarse  sugar  in  a  pan,  from  which  they  must 
drain.  Rub  the  hams,  etc.,  well  with  the  pickle,  and  pack 
them  in  close,  putting  as  much  as  the  pan  will  hold,  so  that 
the  pickle  will  cover  them.  The  pickle  is  not  to  be  boiled  at 
first.  A  small  ham  may  lay  fourteen  days,  a  large  one,  three 
weeks  ;  a  tongue  twelve  days  ;  beef  in  proportion  to  its  size. 
Thev  will  eat  well  out  of  the  pickle  without  drying.  When 
to  be  dried,  let  each  piece  be  drained  over  the  pan,  and  when 
it  will  drop  no  longer,  take  a  clean  sporge  and  dry  it  thor- 
oughly. Six  or  eight  hours  will  smoke  them  ;  and  theie 
should  be  only  a  little  sawdust  and  wet  straw  burnt  to  smoke 
them  :  but  if  put  into  a  baker's  chimney,  sew  them  in  coarse 
cloth,  and  hang  them  a  week. 

Excellent  Bacon 

When  the  hog  is  divided,  if  a  laige  one.  the  chine  should 
be  cut  out.  The  bacon  will  be  preserved  from  being  rusty, 
if  the  spareribs  are  left  in.  Salt  the  bacon  six  days ;  then 
drain  it  from  the  first  pickle.  Mix  as  much  salt  as  you  judge 
proper  with  eight  ounces  of  bay  salt,  four  ounces  of  saltpetre, 
and  one  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  to  each  hog,  the  hams  being 
first  cut  off.  Rub  the  salts  well  in,  and  turn  it  every  day  for 
a  month.  Drain,  and  smoke  a  few  days  ;  or  dry  without,  by 
hanging  in  the  kitchen,  not  near  the  fire. 

Mutton,  The  Haunch 

Keep  as  long  as  it  can  be  preserved  sweet,  by  the  differ- 
ent modes  of  keeping.  Let  it  be  washed  with  warm  milk  and 
water,  if  necessary  ;  but  soak  off  the  flavor  from  keeping. 
Put  a  coarse  paste  on  strong  paper,  and  fold  the  haunch  in  ; 
set  it  at  a  great  distance  from  the  fire,  and  allow  proportion- 
able time  for  the  paste,  which  do  not  remove  till  about  thirty- 
five  or  forty  minutes  before  serving  ;  then  paste  perpetually. 
You  will  have  brought  the  haunch  nearer  to  the  fire  before 
you  take  off  the  paste,  and  must  froth  it  up  as  you  would 
venison. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


A  gravy  must  be  made  of  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loin  of 
old  mutton,  simmered  in  a  pint  of  water  to  half,  and  no 
seasoning  but  salt.  Brown  it  with  a  little  burnt  sugar,  and 
send  it  up  in  the  meat  ;  for  though  long  at  the  fire,  the  dis- 
tance and  covering  will  prevent  its  being  done  dry.  Serve 
with  currant  jelly  sauce. 

Legs  roasted,  and  onion  or  currant  jelly  sauce  ;  or,  boiled, 
with  caper  sauce  and  vegetables. 

Necks  are  particularly  useful,  as  so  many  dishes  may  be 
made  of  them ;  but  they  are  advantageous  for  the  family. 
The  bones  should  be  cut  short ;  which  the  butcher  will  not  do 
unless  particularly  desired. 

Note.  When  there  is  more  fat  to  a  neck  or  loin  of  mut- 
ton than  is  agreeable  to  eat  with  the  lean,  it  makes  an 
uncommonly  good  suet  pudding,  or  crust  for  a  meat  pie, being 
cut  very  fine. 

The  best  end  of  the  neck  boiled,  and  served  with 
turnips  ;  or  toasted  ;  or  in  steaks,  in  pies,  or  haricot. 

The  scrag  stewed  in  broth,  or  with  a  small  quantity  of 
water,  some  small  onions,  a  few  pepper-corns  and  a  little  rice, 
and  served  together. 

Haricot 

Take  off  some  of  the  fat,  and  cut  the  middle  or  best  end 
of  the  neck  into  rather  thin  steaks.  Put  the  fat  into  a  frying- 
pan,  and,  flouring,  fry  them  in  it  of  a  fine  brown,  but  not 
enough  for  eating.  Put  them  in  a  dish  while  you  fry  the  car- 
rots, turnips,  and  onions  ;  the  former  in  dice,  the  latter  sliced; 
but  they  must  only  be  warmed,  not  browned,  or  you  need  not 
fry  them.  Then  lay  the  steaks  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan, 
the  vegetables  over,  and  pour  as  much  boiling  water  on  them 
as  will  just  cover  :  give  one  boil,  skim  well,  and  then  set  the 
pan  on  the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  gently  till  tender  :  in 
three  or  four  hours  skim,  and  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  one 
spoonful  of  catsup. 


i66  The  Southern  Cookbook 


Mutton  Pie 

Cut  steaks  from  a  loin  or  neck  of  mutton  :  beat  them  and 
remove  some  of  the  fat.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  lit- 
tle onion.  Put  a  little  water  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  a 
little  paste  on  the  edge  ;  then  cover  with  a  moderately  thick 
paste.  Or,  raise  small  pies,  and  breaking  each  bone  in  two  to 
shorten  it,  season  and  cover  it  over,  pinching  the  edge. 
When  they  come  out,  pour  a  spoonful  of  gravy,  made  of  a  bit 
of  mutton,  into  each.    The  mutton  should  have  hung. 

Mutton  and  Potato  Pie 

Season  the  steaks  of  a  loin  or  neck  ;  lay  them  in  a  dish: 
have  ready  potatoes  mashed  very  thick,  with  some  milk,  and 
a  bit  of  butter  and  salt,  and  cover  the  meat  as  with  a  very 
thick  crust,  and  to  come  on  the  surrounding  edge. 

Mutton  Pudding 

Season  as  above.  Lay  one  layer  of  steaks  at  the  bottom 
of  the  dish,  and  pour  a  batter  of  potatoes  boiled  and  pressed 
through  a  colander,  and  mixed  with  milk  and  egg,  over  them: 
then  putting  the  rest  of  the  steaks  and  batter,  bake  it. 

Butter  with  flour,  instead  of  potatoes;  eats  well,  but  re- 
quires more  eggs,  and  is  not  so  good. 

Mutton  Sausages 

Take  a  pound  of  the  rawest  part  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  that 
has  been  either  roasted  or  boiled  :  chop  it  extremely  small : 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  mace,  and  nutmeg.  Add  six  ounces 
of  beef  suet,  some  sweet  herbs,  two  anchovies,  and  a  pint  of 
oysters,  all  chopped  very  small ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated 
bread,  some  of  the  anchovy  liquor,  and  all  that  came  from  the 
oysters  :  the  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs  well-beaten.  Put 
it  all,  when  well-mixed,  into  a  little  pot,  and  use  it  by  rolling  it 
into  balls  or  sausage  shape,  and  fry  them.  If  approved  a  lit- 
tle shallot  may  be  added  ;  or  garlic,  which  is  a  great  improve- 
ment. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Mutton  Steaks 

Should  be  cut  from  a  loin  or  neck  that  has  hung.  If  the 
latter,  the  bones  should  not  be  long.  They  should  be  broiled 
on  a  clear  fire,  and  seasoned  when  half  done,  and  frequently 
turned  ;  when  taken  into  a  very  hot  dish,  rub  a  bit  of  butter 
on  each,  and  serve  hot  the  moment  they  are  done. 

They  may  be  covered  with  forcemeat. 

Mutton  Collops 

Cut  from  that  part  of  a  well  hung  loin  of  mutton  which  is 
next  the  leg,  some  collops  very  thin.  Take  out  the  sinews, 
season  them  with  salt,  pepper  and  mace,  and  strew  over  them 
shred  parsley,  thyme,  and  two^r  three  shallots.  Fry  them  in 
butter  till  half  clone.  Add  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  little  juice 
of  lemon,  and  piece  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour,  and  simmer  the 
whole  very  gently  five  minutes.  They  should  be  served  im- 
mediately, or  they  will  be  hard. 

Lamb  Steaks 

Fry  a  beautiful  brown.  Throw  over  them  when  served, 
a  good  quantity  of  crumbs  of  bread  fried,  and  chopped  parsley: 
the  receipt  for  doing  which  of  a  fine  color,  is  given  under  the 
article  of  vegetables. 

Mutton  and  lamb  steaks,  seasoned  and  broiled  in  buttered 
papers,  either  with  crumbs  and  herbs,  or  without,  are  a  gen- 
teel dish,  and  eat  well. 

Sauce  for  them,  called  Robart,  under  the  list  of  sauces. 

Saddle  or  loin  of  mutton,  roasted  :  the  former  .a  fashiona- 
ble dish. 

Shoulder  of  mutton,  roasted,  and  onion  sauce.  Bladebone 
broiled. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  Boiled  With  Oysters 

Hang  it  some  days,  then  salt  it  well  for  two.  Bone  it 
and  sprinkle  it  with  pepper,  and  a  bit  of  mace  pounded.  Lay 
some  oysters  over  it,  and  roll  the  meat  up  tight  with  a  fillet. 
Stew  it  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  with  an  onion,  and  a  few 
pepper-corns,  till  quite  tender. 

Have  ready  a  little  good  gravy,  and  some  oysters  stewed 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


in  it  :  thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  and  pour  over  the  mut- 
ton when  the  tape  is  removed.  The  stewpan  should  be  kept 
close  covered. 

Breast  of  Mutton 

The  superfluous  fat  being  cut  off,  roast,  and  serve  with 
stewed  cucumbers :  or,  to  eat  cold,  having  covered  it  with 
chopped  parsley  :  or  half  boiled,  and  then  grilled  before  the 
fire,  being  covered  with  caper  sauce  :  or  boned,  a  good  deal  of 
the  fat  being  taken  off,  and  covered  with  bread,  herbs,  and 
seasoning ;  then  rolled  and  boiled,  and  served  with  chopped 
walnuts,  or  capers  and  butter. 

Rolled  Loin  of  Mutton 

Hang  the  mutton,  to  be  tender.*  Bone  it,  and  lay  a  sea- 
soning of  pepper,  pimento,  mace,  nutmeg,  a  few  cloves,  all  in 
fine  powder,  over  it.  Next  day  prepare  a  stuffing  as  for  a  hare, 
beat  the  meat,  and  cover  it  with  the  stuffing,  roll  it  tight,  and 
fillet  it.  Half  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven  :  let  it  grow  cold  :  flour 
the  meat,  and  put  it  in  likewise;  stew  till  near  ready,  and  add 
a  glass  of  port  wine,  some  catsup,  an  anchovy,  and  a  little 
lemon  pickle,  half  an  hour  before  serving,  which  do  in  the 
gravy,  and  with  jelly  sauce.  A  few  fresh  mushrooms  are  a 
great  improvement  but  not  if  to  eat  like  hare,  nor  add  the 
lemon  pickle. 

Rumps,  kidneys;  livers,  and  hearts,  well  washed,  season- 
ed, and  broiled,  and  served  with  cold  butter  rubbed  on 
them. 

Steaks  of  Mutton,  or  Lamb  and  Cucumber 

Quarter  cucumbers,  and  lay  them  in  a  dish;  sprinkle  them 
with  salt,  and  pour  vineger  over.  Fry  chops  of  a  fine  brown, 
and  put  them  in  a  stewpan:  put  some  sliced  onions,  pepper, 
and  salt:  pour  hot  water  or  weak  broth  on  them:  stew  and  skim 
well. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


An  Excellent  Hotchpotch 

Stew  peas,  lettuce  and  onions,  in  a  very  little  water,  with 
a  beef  or  ham  bone.  While  doing,  fry  some  mutton  or  lamb 
steaks,  seasoned,  of  a  nice  brown.  Three  quarters  of  an  hour 
before  dinner  put  the  steaks  into  a  stewpan,  and  the  vegetables 
over:  stew  them,  and  serve  all  together  in  a  tureen. 

Another  Hotchpotch 

Knuckle  of  veal,  and  scrag  of  mutton,  stewed  with  vege- 
tables as  above. 

Mutton  Ham 

Choose  a  finegrained  leg  of  wether  mutton,  of  twelve  or 
fourteen  pounds  weight.  Let  it  be, cut  ham-shape,  and  hang 
two  days:  then  put  into  a  stewpan  half  a  pound  of  bay  salt, 
the  same  of  common  salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  half  a 
pound  of  coarsest  sugar,  all  in  powder:  mix  and  make  it  quite 
hot;  then  rub  it  well  into  the  ham,  let  it  be  turned  in  the  liquor 
daily.  At  the  end  of  four  days  put  two  ounces  more  of  com- 
mon salt:  in  twelve  days  take  it  out,  dry,  and  hang  it  up  in  the 
wood-smoke  a  week. 

Mutton  Cutlets  in  the  Portuguese  Way 

Cat  the  chops,  and  half  fry  them,  with  sliced  shallot  and 
onion,  chopped  parsley  and  two  bay  leaves;  seasoned  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  Then  lay  a  forcemeat  on  a  piece  of  white  paper, 
put  the  chop  on  it,  cover  with  forcemeat,  and  twist  the  paper 
up,  leaving  a  hole  for  the  end  of  the  bone  to  go  through.  Boil 
-on  a  gentle  fire.  Serve  with  saute  Robart;  or,  as  the  seasoning 
makes  the  cutlets  high,  a  little  gravy. 

Lamb 

Leg  boiled  in  a  cloth  to  look  as  white  as  possible;  the  loin 
fried  in  steak  and  served  round,  garnished  with  dried  or 
fried  parsley.  Spinach  to  eat  with  it.  Or  dressed  separately, 
or  roasted. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Lamb's  Head  and  Hinge 

That  of  a  house  lamb  is  best,  but  either,  if  soaked  in  cold 
water,  will  be  white.  Boil  the  head  separately  till  very  tender, 
and  have  ready  the  liver  and  lights  cut  small.  After  being 
three  parts  boiled,  stew  them  in  a  little  of  the  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled.  Season  and  thicken  with  flour  and  butter, 
and  serve  the  mince  around  the  head. 

Fore -quarter  of  Lamb 

Roasted  whole;  or  separately.  If  left  to  be  cold,  chopped 
parsley  should  be  sprinkled  over  it. 


SOUPS 


Giblet  Soup 

Scald  and  clean  three  or  four  sets  of  goose  or  duck  giblets; 
then  set  them  on  to  stew  with  a  scrag  of  mutton,  or  a  pound 
of  gravy  beef,  or  bone  of  knuckle  of  veal,  an  ox  tail,  or  some 
shank  bones  of  mutton;  three  onions,  a  blade  of  mace,  ten  pep- 
per-corns, two  cloves,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  two  quarts 
of  water.  Simmer  till  the  gizzards  are  quite  tender,  which 
must  be  cut  in  three  or  four  parts;  then  put  in  a  .little  cream, 
a  spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  it,  and  a  spoonful  of 
mushroom  catsup;  or  two  glasses  of  sherrv  or  Madeira  wine 
instead  of  cream,  and  some  cayenne. 

Turnip  Soup 

Stew  down  a  knuckle  of  veal:  strain,  and  let  the  broth 
stand  till  next  dav;  take  off  the  fat  and  sediment,  and  warm  it, 
adding  turnips  cut  in  small  dice:  stew  till  they  are  tender:  put 
a  bit  of  pounded  mace,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  Before  you 
serve,  rub  down  half  a  spoonful  of  flour,  with  halt  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  boil  with  the  soup:  pour  it  on  a  roll  in  the  tureen; 
but  it  should  have  soaked  a  little  first  in  the  soup,  which 
should  be  as  thick  as  middling  cream. 

Old  Pea  Soup 

Save  the  water  of  boiled  pork  or  beef :  if  too  salt,  use 
only  a  part,  and  the  other  of  plain  water:  or  put  some  roast 
beef  bones,  or  a  ham  or  bacon  bone  to  give  relish  :  an  anchovy 
or  two.  Set  these  on  with  some  good  split  or  whole  peas,  the 
smallest  quantity  of  water  at  first  the  better  :  simmer  till  the 
peas  will  pulp  through  a  colander  ;  then  set  that,  and  some 
more  of  the  liquor,  besides  what  boiled  the  peas,  some  car- 
rots, turnips,  celery,  and  onion,  or  leek  or  two,  to  stew  till  all 
is  tender.  Celery  will  take  less  time,  and  may  be  put  in  an 
hour  before  dinner.  When  ready,  put  fried  bread  in  dice, 
dried  mint  rubbed  small,  pepper,  and,  if  wanted,  salt,  in  the 
tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  upon  them. 


IJ2 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Green  Pea  Soup 

In  shelling,  divide  the  old  from  the  young,  and  put  the 
former,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a  little  water  in  the  stew- 
pan,  and  the  old  parts  of  lettuce,  an  onion  or  two,  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt.  Simmer  till  the  peas  will  pulp  through  a  colan- 
der ;  which  when  done,  add  to  it  some  more  water,  and  that 
which  boiled  the  peas,  the  best  parts  of  the  lettuce  and 
the  young  peas,  a  handful  of  spinach  cut  small,  pepper,  and 
salt  to  taste.  Stew  till  the  vegetables  are  quite  tender  ;  and 
a  few  minutes  before  serving,  throw  in  seme  green  mint,  cut 
fine.  Should  the  soup  be  too  thin,  a  spoonful  of  rice  flour, 
rubbed  down  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  boiled  with  it,  will  give 
it  consistence. 

Note.  If  soup  or  gravy  is  too  weak,  the  cover  of  the 
saucepan  should  be  taken  off,  and  the  steam  let  out,  boiling  it 
very  quickly. 

When  there  is  plenty  of  vegetables,  green  pea  soup  needs 
no  meat':  but,  if  approved,  a  pig's  foot,  or  a  small  bit  of  any 
sort,  may  be  boiled  with  the  old  peas  and  removed  into  the 
second  process  till  the  juices  shall  be  obtained.  Observe, 
three  or  four  ounces  of  butter  will  supply  richness  to  a  soup 
without  meat,  or  make  it  higher  with  it. 

Gravy  Soup 

Wash  a  leg  of  beef,  break  the  bone,  and  set  it  over  the 
lire  with  five  quarts  of  water,  a  large  bunch  of  herbs,  two 
onions,  sliced  and  fried,  but  not  burnt,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace, 
three  cloves,  twenty  Jamaica  peppers,  and  forty  black.  Sim- 
mer till  the  soup  be  as  rich  as  you  choose  ;  then  strain  off  the 
meat,  which  will  be  fit  for  the  servant's  table.  Next  day 
take  off  the  cake  of  fat,  and  that  will  warm  with  vegetables ; 
or  make  a  pie-crust  for  the  same.  Have  ready  such  vege- 
tables as  you  choose  to  serve,  cut  in  dice,  cairot,  and  turnip, 
sliced,  and  simmer  till  tender.  Celeiy  should  be  stewed  in  it 
likewise ;  and  before  you  serve,  boil  seme  vermicelli  leng 
enough  to  be  tender,  which  it  will  be  in  fifteen  minutes. 
Add  a  spoonful  of  soy,  and  one  of  mushroom  catsup.  Some 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


173 


people  do  not  serve  the  vegetables,  only  boil  for  the  flavor. 
A  small  roll  should  be  made  hot,  and  kept  long  enough  in  the 
saucepan  to  swell,  and  then  be  sent  up  in  the  tureen. 

A  Rich  White  Soup 

Boil  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and 
scrag  of  mutton,  mace,  white  pepper,  two  or  three  onions,  and 
sweet  herbs,  the  day  before  you  want  the  soup.  Next  day 
take  off  the  fat,  and  put  the  jelly  into  a  saucepan,  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  blanched,  and  beaten  to 
a  paste  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  water  to  prevent  oiling,  and 
put  to  it  a  piece  of  stale  white  bread,  or  crumb  of  a  roll,  abit 
of  cold  veal,  or  white  of  chicken.  Beat  these  all  to  a  paste 
with  the  almond  paste,  and  boil  it  a  few  minutes  with  a  pint 
of  raw  thick  cream,  a  bit  of  fresh  lemon-peel,  and  half  a  blade 
of  mace  pounded  ;  then  add  this  thickening  to  the  soup.  Let 
it  boil  up,  and  strain  it  into  the  tureen  ;  if  not  salt  enough, 
then  put  it  in.  If  macaroni  or  vermicelli  be  served,  they 
should  be  boiled  in  the  sc/up,  and  the  thickening  be  strained 
after  being  mixed  with  a  part.  A  small  rasped  roll  may  be 
put  in. 

Instead  of  the  cream  thickening,  as  above,  ground  rice 
and  a  little  cream  may  be  used. 

A  Plainer  White  Soup 

Of  a  small  knuckle  of  veal,  two  or  three  pints  of  soup 
may  be  made,  with  seasoning  as  before,  and  both  seived  to- 
gether, with  the  addition  of  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  milk. 

An  Excellent  Soup 

A  scrag  or  knuckle  of  veal,  slices  of  undressed  gammon, 
onions,  mace  and  a  small  quantity  of  water,  simmered  till  very 
strong,  and  lower  it  with  a  good  beef  broth  made  the  da)'  be- 
fore, and  stewed  until  the  meat  is  gone  to  rags.  Add  cream, 
vermicelli,  almonds  as  before,  and  a  roll. 

Carrot  Soup 

Put  some  beef  bones,  with  four  quarts  of  the  liquor  in 
which  a  leg  of  mutton  or  beef  has  been  boiled,  two  large 
onions,  one  turnip,  pepper  and  salt,  into  a  saucepan,  and  stew 


174 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


for  three  hours.  Have  ready  six  large  carrots,  cut  thin  after 
they  are  scraped  ;  strain  the  soup  on  them,  and  stew  till  soft 
enough  to  pulp  through  a  hair  sieve  or  coarse  clolh  ;  then 
boil  the  pulp  with  the  soup:  which  is  to  be  as  thick  as  pea 
soup.  Use  two  wooden  spoons  to  rub  the  carrots  through. 
Make  the  soup  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used.    Add  cayenne. 

Onion  Soup  * 

To  the  water  that  has  boiled  a  leg  or  neck  of  mutton,  put 
carrots,  turnips,  and,  if  you  have  one,  a  shank  bone,  and  sim- 
mer till  the  juices  are  obtained.  Strain  it  on  six  onions  previ- 
ously sliced,  and  fried  a  light  brown  ;  with  which  simmer  it 
three  hours.  Skim  it  carefully,  and  serve  it.  Put  into  it  a 
little  roll  of  fried  bread. 

Vegetable  Soup 

Pare  and  slice  five  or  six  cucumbers,  the  inside  of  as 
many  cos  lettuces,  a  sprig  or  two  of  mint,  two  or  three 
onions,  some  pepper  and  salt,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  young  peas, 
and  a  little  parsley.  Put  these,  with  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,into  a  saucepan  to  stew  in  their  own  liquor  near  a  gen- 
tle fire  half  an  hour  ;  then  pour  two  quarts  of  boiling  water 
to  the  vegetables,  and  stew  them  two  hours  :  rub  down  a 
little  flour  into  a  teacup  of  water ;  boil  it  with  the  rest, 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  it. 

Another  Vegetable  Soup 

Peel  and  slice  six  large  onions,  six  potatoes,  six  carrots, 
and  four  turnips  ;  fry  them  in  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  pour  on 
them  four  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  toast  a  crust  of  bread 
as  brown  and  hard  as  possible,  but  do  not  burn  it :  put  that, 
some  celery,  sweet  herbs,  white  pepper  and  salt,  to  the  above  ; 
stew  gently  four  hours,  strain  through  a  coarse  cloth  :  have 
ready  sliced  carrot,  celery,  and  a  little  turnip,  and  add  to  your 
liking ;  and  stew  them  tender  in  the  soup.  If  approved,  you 
may  add  an  anchovy,  and  a  spoonful  of  catsup. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


175 


Spinach  Soup 

Shred  two  handfuls  of  spinach,  a  turnip,  two  onions, 
a  head  of  celery,  two  carrots,  a  little  thyme  and  parsley.  .Put 
all  into  a  stewpot,  with  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
and  a  pint  of  broth,  or  the  water  in  which  meat  has  been  boil- 
ed :  stew  till  the  vegetables  are  quite  tender:  work  them 
through  a  coarse  cloth  or  sieve  with  a  spoon  ;  then  with  the 
pulp  of  the  vegetables,  and  liquor,  a  quart  of  fresh  water,  pep- 
per and  salt,  boil  all  together.  Have  ready  some  suet  dump- 
lings, the  size  'of  a  walnut,  and  before  you  put  the  soup  into 
the  tureen,  put  them  into  it.  The  suet  must  not  be  shred 
too  fine  :  and  take  care  that  it  is  perfectly  fresh. 

Scotch  Leek  Soup 

Put  the  boiling  of  a  leg  of  mutton  into  a  stewpot,  with  a 
quantity  of  chopped  leeks,  and  pepper  and  salt  ;  simmer  them 
an  hour,  then  mix  some  oat  meal  with  a  little  cold  water  quite 
smooth,  pour  it  into  the  soup,  and  setting  it  on  a  slow  part  of 
the  fire,  let  it  simmer  gently  ;  but  take  care  that  it  does  not 
burn  to  the  bottom. 

Hare  Soup 

Take  an  old  hare  that  is  good  for  nothing  else  than  soup, 
cut  in  pieces,  and  put  it  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lean  beef, 
two  or  three  shank  bones  of  mutton  well  cleaned,  a  slice  of 
lean  bacon  or  ham  ;  an  onion,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  : 
pour  on  it  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  :  cover  the  jar,  in  which 
you  put  these,  with  bladder  and  paper,  and  set  it  in  a  kettle 
of  water  ;  simmer  till  the  hare  is  stewed  to  pieces,  strain  off 
the  liquor,  and  give  it  one  boil,  with  an  anchovy  cut  in  pieces, 
and  add  a  spoonful  of  soy,  and  a  little  cayenne  and  salt.  A 
few  fine  forcemeat  balls,  fried  of  a  good  brown  should  be 
served  in  a  tureen. 

Scotch  Mutton  Broth 

Soak  a  neck  of  mutton  in  water  for  an  hour  :  cut  off  the 
scrag,  and  put  into  a  stewpot  with  two  quarts  of  water,  as 
soon  as  it  boils,  skim  it  well  and  simmer  it  an  hour  and  a  half; 


1/6 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


then  take  the  best  end  of  the  mutton,  cut  it  into  pieces,  two 

bones  in  each,  and  put  as  many  as  you  think  proper,  having 

cut  off  some  of  the  fat.    Skim  it  the  moment  the  fresh  meat 

boils  up.  and  every  quarter  of  an  hour.    Have  readv  four  or 

five  carrots,  the  same  of  turnips,  and  three  onions,  all  cut,  but 

not  small,  and  put  in  time  enough  to  be  quite  tender;  two 

large  spoonfuls  of  Scotch  barley,  first  wetted  with  cold  water. 

The  meat  should  stew  three  hours.    Salt  to  taste,  and  serve 

all  together.    Twenty  minutes  before  serving,  put  in  some 

chopped  parsley. 

It  is  an  excellent  winter  dish. 

Soups  under  the  articles  of  their  respective  Meats. 

Ox  Rump  Soup 

Two  or  three  rumps  of  beef,  will  make  it  stronger  than  a 
much  larger  proportion  of  meat  without  ;  and  form  a  very 
nourishing  soup. 

Make  it  like  gravy  soup,  and  give  it  what  flavor  or  thick- 
ening you  like. 

Soup  a  la  Sap 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  grated  potatoes,  one  pound  of  beef 
sliced  thin,  one  pint  of  grey  peas,  one  onion,  and  three  ounces 
of  rice,  in  six  pints  of  water  to  five  :  strain  it  through  a  colan- 
der, then  pulp  the  peas  to  it,  and  turn  it  into  a  saucepan  again 
with  two  heads  of  celery  sliced  :  stew  it  tender,  adding  pepper 
and  salt ;  and  when  you  serve,  fried  bread. 

Crawfish  or  Prawn  Soup 

Boil  six  whitings,  and  a  large  eel  :  or  the  latter,  and  half 
a  thornback,  being  well  cleaned,  with  as  much  water  as  wiU 
cover  them.  Skim  clean,  and  put  in  whole  pepper,  mace, 
giDgrer.  parsley,  an  onion,  a  little  thyme,  and  three  cloves. 
Boil  to  a  mash.  Pick  fifty  crawfish,  or  a  hundred  prawns, 
pound  the  shells  and  a  little  roll,  after  having  boiled  them 
with  a  little  water,  vinegar,  salt  and  herbs.  Pour  this  liquor 
over  the  shells  in  a  sieve,  then  pour  the  other  soup,  clear  from 
the  sediment  ;  chop  a  lobster,  and  add  to  it,  with  a  quart  of 
good  beef  gravv.  Add  the  tails  of  the  crawfish  or  the  prawns, 
and  some  flour  and  butter  ;  and  season  as  necessary. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


177 


Portable  Soup,  a  Very  Useful  Thing 

Boil  one  or  two  knuckles  of  veal,  one  or  two  shins  of 
beef,  and  a  pound  or  more  of  fine  juicy  beef,  in  as  much  water 
only  as  will  cover  them.  When  the  bones  are  cracked,  out  of 
which  take  the  marrow,  put  any  sort  of  spice  you  like,  and 
three  large  onions.  When  the  meat  is  done  to  rags,  strain  it 
off,  and  put  it  in  a  very  cold  place.  When  cold,  take  off  the 
cake  of  fat  (which  will  make  crust  for  servant's  pies, )  put  the 
soup  in  a  double-bottom  tin  saucepan,  set  it  on  a  pretty  quick 
fire,  but  do  not  let  it  burn.  It  must  boil  fast,  and  uncovered, 
and  be  stirred  constantly  for  eight  hours.  Put  into  a  pan, 
and  let  it  stand  in  a  cold  place  a  day :  then  pour  into  a  round 
soup  china  dish,  and  set  the  dish  into  a  stewpan  of  boiling 
water  on  a  stove,  and  let  it  boil,  and  be  occasionally  stirred, 
till  the  soup  becomes  thick  and  ropy;  then  it  is  enough. 
Pour  it  into  the  little  round  part  of  the  bottom  of  cups  or 
basins  to  form  cakes  ;  and  when  cold,  turn  them  out  on  flan- 
nel  to  dry,  and  wrap  them  in  it.  Keep  them  in  tin  canisters. 
When  to  be  used,  melt  in  boiling  water  :  add  if  you  wish  the 
flavor  of  herbs  or  anything  else,  boil  it  first,  and  having  strain- 
ed the  water,  melt  the  soup  in  it. 

This  is  very  convenient  for  a  basin  of  soup  or  gravy  in 
the  country,  or  at  sea,  where  fresh  meat  is  not  always  at 
hand. 

Clear  Gravy 

Slice  beef  thin  :  broil  a  part  of  it,  over  a  very  clear  quick 
fire,  just  enough  to  give  color  to  the  gravy,  but  not  to  dress 
it  ;  put  that,  and  the  raw  into  a  very  nicely  tinned  stewpan, 
with  two  onions,  a  clove,  or  two  Jamaica  and  black  peppers, 
and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  :  cover  it  with  hot  water ;  give  it 
one  boil,  and  skim  it  well  two  or  three  times  :  then  cover  it 
with  hot  water  :  give  it  one  boil,  and  skim  it  well  two  or  three 
times  ;  then  cover  it  and  simmer  till  quite  strong. 

To  Draw  Gravy  that  Will  Keep  a  Week 

Cut  thin  lean  beef :  put  it  in  a  frying-pan  without  any 
butter;  set  it  on  a  fire  covered,  but  take  care  it  does  not 

(12) 


1 78 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


burn  :  let  it  stay  till  all  the  gravy  that  comes  out  of  the  meat 
be  dried  up  into  it  again  ;  then  put  as  much  water  as  will  cov- 
er the  meat,  and  let  that  stew  away.  Then  put  to  the  meat 
a  small  quantity  of  water,  herbs,  onions,  spice,  a  bit  of  lean 
ham  ;  simmer  till  it  is  rich,  then  keep  in  a  cool  place  Re- 
move the  fat  only  when  going  to  be  used. 

To  Mash  Parsnips 

Boil  tender ;  scrape  them  ;  then  mash  into  a  stewpan, 
with  a  little  cream,  a  good  piece  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

To  Keep  Green  Peas 

Shell,  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  of  water  when  it  boils ; 
give  them  two  or  three  warms  only,  and  pour  them  into  a 
colander.  When  the  water  drains  off,  turn  them  on  a  dresser 
covered  with  a  cloth  ;  pour  them  on  another  cloth  to  dry  per- 
fectly ;  then  bottle  them  in  wide-mouth  bottles,  leaving  only 
room  to  pour  clarified  mutton  suet  upon  them  an  inch  thick, 
and  for  the  cork ;  rosin  it  down,  and  keep  in  a  cellar,  or  in  the 
earth,  as  ordered  for  gooseberries.  Boil  them,  with  a  bit  of 
butter,  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  bit  of  mint,  till  tender,  when 
to  be  used. 

Another  Way,  as  Practised  in  the  Emperor  of  Russia's  Kitchen 

Shell,  scald,  and  dry  as  above.  Put  them  on  tins  or 
earthen  dishes  in  a  cool  oven  to  harden,  once  or  twice.  Keep 
them  in  paper  bags  hung  in  the  kitchen.  When  to  be  used, 
let  them  lie  an  hour  in  water ;  then  set  them  on  with  cold 
water,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  and  boil  till  ready.  Put  a  sprig  of 
dried  mint  to  boil  with  them. 

To  Preserve  French  Beans,  to  eat  in  the  Winter 

Pick  them  young,  and  throw  into  a  little  wooden  keg  a 
layer  three  inches  deep  ;  then  sprinkle  with  salt ;  put  another 
layer  of  beans,  and  do  the  same  as  high  as  you  think  proper, 
alternately  with  salt ;  but  do  not  be  too  liberal  with  the  latter; 
lay  a  plate,  or  cover  of  the  wood  that  will  go  into  the  keg,  and 
put  on  it  a  heavy  stone.    A  pickle  will  rise  from  the  beans 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


179 


and  salt.  If  too  salt,  the  soaking  arid  boiling  will  not  be 
sufficient  to  make  them  pleasant  to  the  taste.  When  to  be 
eaten,  cut,  soak,  and  boil  as  when  fresh. 

Potatoes  should  be  kept  in  the  earth  that  adheres  to 
them  when  dug ;  and  preserved  from  frost. 

Parsnips,  carrots,  and  turnips  the  same,  and  put  in  layers 
of  dry  sand. 

Small  close  cabbages  laid  on  a  stone  floor  before  the 
frost  sets  in  will  blanch  and  be  very  fine,  after  many  weeks' 
keeping. 

To  Boil  Vegetables  Green 

Be  sure  the  water  boils  when  you  put  them  in  ;  when  in? 
make  them  boil  very  fast.  Do  not  cover,  but  watch  them  ; 
and  if  the  water  has  not  slackened,  you  may  be  assured  they 
are  done  when  they  are  beginning  to  sink ;  take  them  out 
immediately,  or  the  color  will  change. 

Small  Dishes  for  Supper,  etc. 

Boil  eggs  hard,  cut  them  in  half,  take  out  the  yolks,  set 
the  whites  on  a  dish,  and  fill  with  the  following  ingredients  ; 
or  put  a  saucer  upside  down  on  a  plate,  and  place  them  in 
quarters  around ;  in  either  case  as  a  salmagundi.  Chopped 
veal,  yolk  of  egg,  beet-root,  anchovy,  apple,  onion,  ham  and 
parsley.  A  very  small  bit  of  the  white  of  the  egg  must  be 
cut  off,  to  make  it  stand  on  the  dish  as  a  cup. 

Stewed  Old  Peas 

Steep  them  in  water  all  night,  if  not  fine  boilers,  other- 
wise only  half  an  hour ;  put  them  with  water  enough  just  to 
cover  them,  and  a  good  bit  of  butter,  or  a  piece  of  beef  or 
pork.  Stew  in  the  most  gentle  way  till  the  peas  are  soft,  and 
the  meat  is  tender.  If  not  salt  meat,  add  salt,  and  a  little 
pepper,  and  serve  around  the  meat. 

French  Salad 

Cut  three  anchovies,  a  shallot,  and  some  parsley  small ; 
put  them  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  of 


i8o 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


oil,  a  little  mustard,  and  salt;  When  well  mixed,  add  by 
degrees  some  cold  roast  or  boiled  meat,  in  the  very  thinnest 
slices  ;  put  in  a  few  at  a  time,  they  being  small ;  not  exceeding 
two  or  three  inches  long ;  shake  them  in  the  seasoning,  and 
then  put  more  ;  cover  the  bowl  close ;  and  let  the  salad  be 
prepared  three  hours  before  eaten. 

Garnish  with  parsley,  and  a  few  slices  of  the  fat. 

Lobster  Salad 

Make  a  small  salad  and  put  some  of  the  red  part  of  the 
lobster  to  it,  cut,  which  forms  a  pretty  contrast  to  the  white 
and  green  of  vegetables. 

Do  not  put  too  much  oil,  as  shell  fish  take  off  the  acidity 
of  vinegar. 

Serve  in  a  dish,  not  bowl. 

To  Boil  Potatoes 

Set  them  on  the  fire,  unpared,  in  cold  water ;  let  them 
half  boil,  then  throw  some  salt  in,  and  a  pint  of  cold  water, 
and  let  them  boil  again  till  near  done.  Pour  off  the  water, 
and  put  a  clean  cloth  over  them,  and  then  the  saucepan  cover, 
and  set  them  by  the  fire  to  steam  till  ready.  Many  use 
steamers. 

To  Broil  Potatoes 

Parboil,  then  slice  and  boil  them  ;  or  parboil,  and  set 
them  whole  on  the  gridiron  over  a  very  slow  fire  ;  and  when 
thoroughly  done,  send  up  with  their  skins  on.  The  latter  is 
done  in  many  Irish  families. 

To  Roast  Potatoes 

Half  boil,  take  off  the  thin  peel,  and  roast  them  of  a  beau- 
tiful brown. 

To  Fry  Potatoes 

Slice  raw  potatoes  after  the  skin  is  removed,  and  fry 
either  m  butter  or  thin  batter. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


181 


To  Mash  Potatoes 

Boil,  peel,  and  break  to  paste  the  potatoes  ;  then,  to  two 
pounds,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  little  salt,  with 
two  or  three  ounces  of  butter,  and  stir  all  well  over  the  fire. 
Serve  thus,  or  brown  the  top,  when  placed  on  the  dish  in  a 
form,  with  salamander  ;  or  in  scallops. 

Stewed  Celery 

Wash,  and  strip  off  the  outer  leaves  of  six  heads;  halve,  or 
leave  them  whole  according  to  their  size;  cut  them  in  four- 
inch  lengths.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  cup  of  broth,  or 
weak  white  gravy.  Stew  till  tender;  then  add  two  spoonfuls 
of  cream,  and  a  little  flour  and  butter,  seasoned  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  simmer  together. 

Cauliflower  in  White  Sauce 

Half  boil,  then  cut  into  handsome  pieces,  and  lay  into  a 
stewpan,  with  a  little  broth,  a  bit  of  mace,  a  little  salt,  and  a 
dust  of  white  pepper.  Simmer  half  an  hour;  then  put  a  little 
cream,  butter  and  flour;  shake  and  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and 
serve. 

Spinach 

Should  be  very  carefully  picked  and  washed;  then  boil, 
and  squeeze  it  dry.  Put  it  in  a  pan  with  a  bit  of  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper;  stew  it,  and  serve. 

French  Way 

Clean  as  before;  then  put  it  into  a  stewpan  without  water, 
a  spoonful  of  gravy,  and  a  lump  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper, 
and  simmer  till  ready.    If  too  moist,  squeeze  the  gravy  from  it. 

Stewed  Red  Cabbage 

Slice  a  small,  or  half  a  large  red  cabbage;  wash  it,  and 
put  into  a  saucepan,  the  pepper  and  salt,  no  water  but  what 
hangs  about  the  former,  and  a  piece  of  butter.  Stew  till 
quite  tender;  then  when  going  to  serve,  put  to  it  half  a  cup  of 
vinegar,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire. 

Serve  for  cold  meat,  or  with  sausage  on  it. 


182 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Stewed  Mushrooms 

Choose  large  buttons,  or  small  flaps,  before  the  fringe  be 
turned  black:  pick  each  one  separately,  and  observe  there  is 
not  a  bad  one;  rub  the  former  with  a  flannel  and  salt,  skin  the 
latter,  and  take  out  the  fringe.  Throw  them  into  a  stewpan, 
with  a  little  salt,  apiece  of  butter,  and  a  few  peppers;  set  them 
on  a  slack  part  of  the  Are,  and  shake  them  sometime.  When 
tender,  add  two  large  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a  dust  of  flour. 

Stewed  Sorrel  for  Fricandeau,  and  Roast  Meat 

Wash  the  sorrel  ,  and  put  it  in  a  silver  vessel,  or  stone  jar, 
and  no  more  water  than  hangs  to  the  leaves.  Simmer  in  the 
lowest  way  you  can;  and  when  done  enough,  put  a  bit  of 
butter,  and  beat  it  well. 

Stewed  Carrots 

Half  boil,  then  nicely  scrape,  and  slice  them  into  a  stew- 
pan.  Put  to  them  half  a  teacup  of  any  weak  broth,  some  pep- 
per, and  salt,  and  half  a  teacup  of  cream;  simmer  to  be  very 
tender,  but  not  broke.  Before  serving,  rub  the  least  flour 
with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  warm  up  with  it.  If  approved,  chop- 
ped parsley  may  be  added  ten  minutes  before  served. 

To  Dry  Mushrooms 

Wipe  them  clean  and  of  the  large  take  out  the  brown  and 
peel  off  the  skin.  Lay  them  on  paper  to  dry  in  a  cool  oven, 
arid  keep  them  in  paper  bags  in  a  dry  place.  When  used  sim- 
mer them  in  the  gravv.  and  they  will  swell  to  near  their  form- 
er size.  To  simmer  them  in  their  own  liquor  till  it  dry  up 
into  them,  shaking  the  pan,  then  drying  on  tin  plates,  is  a 
good  way,  with  spice  or  not,  as  above,  before  made  into  pow- 
der. 

Tie  down  with  bladder,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place,  or  in  paper. 

Sugar  Vinegar 

To  every  gallon  of  water,  put  two  pounds  of  the  very 
coarsest  sugar;  boil  and  skim  thoroughly :  then  put  one  quart 
of  cold  water  to  every  gallon  of  hot.   When  cool,  put  into  it  a 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


toast  spread  with  yeast.  Stir  it  nine  days;  then  barrel,  and 
set  it  in  a  place  where  the  sun  will  lie  on  it,  with  a  bit  of  slate 
on  the  bunghole. 

When  sufficiently  sour,  it  may  be  bottled;  or  may  be  used 
from  the  cask,  with  a  wooden  spigot  and  faucet. 

Gooseberry  Vinegar 

Boil  spring  water;  and  when  cold,  put  to  every  three 
quarts  a  quart  of  bruised  ripe  gooseberries  in  a  large  tub. 
Let  them  remain  sixty  hours,  stirring  often;  then  strain 
through  a  hair  bag,  and  to  each  gallon  of  liquor  add  a  pound 
of  the  coarsest  sugar.  Put  it  into  a  barrel  and  a  toast  and 
yeast,  cover  the  bunghole  with  a  bit  of  slate,  etc.,  as  above. 
The  greater  quantity  of  sugar  and  fruit,  the  stronger  the  vine- 
gar. 

Wine  Vinegar 

After  making  raisin  wine,  when  the  fruit  has  been  strain- 
ed, lay  it  on  a  heap  to  heat;  then  to  every  hundred  weight  put 
fifteen  gallons  of  water.  Set  the  cask,  and  put  the  yeast,  etc; 
as  above. 

As  vinegar  is  so  necessary  an  article  in  a  family,  and  one 
on  which  so  great  a  profit  is  made,  a  barrel  or  two  may  always 
be  kept  preparing,  according  to  what  suited.  If  the  raisins  of 
wine  were  ready,  that  kind  might  be  made;  if  a  great  plenty 
of  gooseberries  made  them  cheap,  that  sort;  or  if  neither, 
then  the  sugar  vinegar,  so  that  the  cask  may  not  be  left  empty, 
and  grow  musty. 

Kitchen  Pepper 

Mix  in  the  finest  powder,  one  ounce  of  ginger,  of  cinna- 
mon, black  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  Jamaica  pepper,  half  an 
ounce  of  each;  ten  cloves,  and  six  ounces  of  salt.  Keep  it  in  a 
bottle.  It  is  an  agreeable  addition  to  any  brown  sauces  or 
soups. 

Spice  in  powder,  kept  in  small  bottles,  close  stopped,  goes 
much  further  then  when  used  whole.    It  must  be  dried  before 


184 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


pounded;  and  should  be  done  in  quantities  that  may  be  wanted 
in  three  or  four  months.  Nutmeg  need  not  be  done;  but  the 
others  should  be  kept  in  separate  bottles,  with  a  little  label  on 
each. 

Browning,  to  Color  and  Flavor  made  Dishes 

Beat  to  powder  four  ounces  of  double  refined  sugar;  put 
it  into  a  very  nice  iron  frying-pan,  with  one  ounce  of  fine  fresh 
butter;  mix  it  well  over  a  clear  fire,  and  when  it  begins  to 
froth,  hold  it  up  higher.  When  of  very  fine  dark  brown,  pour 
in  a  small  quantity  of  a  pint  of  port  wine,  and  the  whole  by 
very  small  degrees,  stirring  all  the  time.  Put  to  the  above 
half  an  ounce  of  Jamaica,  and  the  same  of  black  pepper,  six 
cloves  of  shallots  peeled,  three  blades  of  mace  bruised,  three 
spoonfuls  of  mushroom,  and  the  same  of  walnut  catsup,  some 
salt,  and  the  finely  pared  rind  of  a  lemon.  Boil  gently  fifteen 
minutes;  pour  into  a  basin  till  cold;  take  off  the  scum,  bottle 
for  use. 

To  make  Sprats  Taste  like  Anchovies 

Salt  them  well,  and  let  the  salt  drain  from  them.  In 
twenty-four  hours  wipe  them  dry,  but  do  not  wash  them.  Mix 
four  ounces  of  common  salt,  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  a  quarter 
of  a  ounce  of  sal-prunel,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cochineal,  all 
in  the  finest  powder.  Sprinkle  it  among  three  quarts  of  the 
fish,  and  pack  them  in  two  stone  jars.  Keep  in  a  cool  place, 
fastened  down  with  a  bladder. 

These  are  pleasant  on  bread  and  butter;  but  have  the  best 
for  sauce. 

To  keep  Anchovies  when  the  Liquor  Dries 

Pour  on  them  beef  brine 

To  Keep  Capers 

Add  fresh  vinegar,  that  has  been  scalded,  and  become 
cold,  and  tie  them  close,  to  keep  out  the  air. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


185 


To  Make  Mustard 

* 

Mix  the  best  Durham  flour  of  mustard  by  degrees,  with 
boiling  water,  to  a  proper  thickness,  rubbing"  it  perfectly 
smooth;  add  a  little  salt,  and  keep  it  in  a  small  jar,  close  cover- 
ed; and  put  only  as  much  into  the  glass  as  will  be  used  soon; 
which  should  be  whipped  daily  around  the  edges. 

Another  Way  for  Immediate  Use 

Mix  the  mustard  with  new  milk  by  degrees,  to  be  quite 
smooth  and  add  a  little  raw  cream.  It  is  much  softer  this  way, 
is  not  bitter  and  will  keep  well. 

The  patent  mustard  is  by  many  preferred,  and  it  is  per- 
haps as  cheap,  being  always  ready. 

A  teaspoonful  of  sugar  to  half  a  pint  of  mustard  is  a  great 
improvement,  and  softens  it. 


PICKLES 


India 

Lay  a  pound  of  white  ginger  in  water  one  night:  then 
scrape,  and  lay  it  in  salt  in  a  pan  till  the  other  ingredients 
shall  be  ready. 

Peel,  slice,  and  salt  a  pound  of  garlic  three  days;  then 
put  it  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Salt  and  dry  long  pepper  in  the 
same  way. 

Quarter  small  white  cabbages;  salt  three  days:  squeeze 
and  set  them  in  the  sun  to  dry. 

Cauliflowers  cut  in  their  branches:  take  off  the  green 
from  the  radishes:  cut  celery  in  three  inch  lengths:  ditto 
French  beans  whole,  likewise  the  shoots  of  alder,  which  will 
look  like  bamboo.  Apples  and  cucumbers,  choose  of  the  least 
seedy  sort;  cut  them  in  slices,  or  quarters,  if  not  too  large. 
All  must  be  salted,  drained,  and  dried  in  the  sun,  except  the 
latter;  over  which  you  must  pour  boiling  vinegar,  and,  in 
twelve  hours,  drain  them,  but  no  salt  must  be  used. 

Put  the  spice,  garlic,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mustard 
seed,  and  as  much  vinegar  as  you  think  enough  for  the  quant, 
ity  you  are  to  pickle,  into  a  large  stone  jar,  and  one  ounce  of 
turmeric  to  be  ready  against  the  vegetables  shall  be  dried. 
When  they  are  ready,  observe  the  following  directions:  put 
some  of  them  into  a  two-quart  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  them 
one  quart  of  boiling  vinegar:  next  day  take  out  those  vegetables, 
and  when  drained,  put  them  into  a  large  stock  jar,  and  boiling 
the  vinegar,  pour  it  over  some  more  of  the  vegetables:  let  them 
lay  a  night,  and  do  as  above.  Thus  proceed  till  you  have 
cleaned  each  set  from  the  dust  which  must  inevitably  fall  on 
them  by  being  so  long  in  doing:  then,  to  every  gallon  of  vine- 
gar, put  two  ounces  of  flour  of  mustard,  mixing  by  degrees, 
with  a  little  of  it  boiling  hot.  The  whole  of  the  vinegar  should 
have  been  previously  scalded,  but  left  to  be  cool  before  put  to 
the  spice.    Stop  the  jar  tight. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


i87 


The  pickle  will  not  be  ready  for  a  year;  but  you  may  make 
a  small  jar  for  eating  in  a  fortnight,  by  only  giving  them  one 
scald  in  water,  after  salting  and  drying  as  above,  but  without 
the  preparative  vinegar,  then  pour  the  vinegar  that  has  the 
spice  and  garlic,  boiling  hot,  over.  If  at  any  time  it  be  found 
that  the  vegetables  have  not  swelled  properly,  boiling  the 
pickle,  and  pouring  it  over  them  hot,  will  plump  them. 


Cut  the  large  young  shoots  of  alder,  which  put  out  in  the 
middle  of  May,  (the  middle  stalks  are  most  tender)  peel  off  the 
outward  peel,  or  skin,  and  lay  them  in  salt  and  water,  very 
strong,  one  night.  Dry  them  piece  by  piece  in  a  cloth.  Have 
in  readiness  a  pickle  thus  made  and  boiled:  to  a  quart  of  vine- 
gar put  an  ounce  of  white  pepper,  an  ounce  of  sliced  ginger,  a 
little  mace  and  pimento,  and  pour  boiling  on  the  alder  shoots, 
in  a  stone  jar:  stop  close,  and  set  by  the  fire  two  hours,  turn- 
ing the  jar  often,  to  keep  scalding  hot.  If  not  green  when  cold, 
strain  off  the  liquor,  and  boil  boiling  hot  again;  keeping  it  as 
hot  as  before.  Or,  if  you  intend  to  make  Indian  pickle,  the 
above  shoots  are  a  great  improvement  to  it:  in  which  case  you 
need  only  pour  boiling  vinegar  and  mustard  seed  on  them;  and 
keep  them  till  your  jar  of  pickles  shall  be  ready  to  receive 
them. 


This  is  particular  sort  for  this  purpose  which  the  gardiners 
know.  Cut  a  square  small  piece  out  of  one  side,  and  through 
that  takeout  the  seeds,  and  mix  with  them  mustard  seeds  and 
shred  garlic;  stuff  the  melons  as  full  as  the  space  will  allow, 
and  replace  the  square  piece.  Bind  it  up  with  a  small  new 
packthread.  Boil  a  good  quantity  of  vinegar,  to  allow  for 
wasting,  with  pepper,  salt,  ginger,  and  pour  boiling  hot  over 
the  mangoes  four  successive  days;  the  last,  put  flour  of  mus- 
tard, and  scraped  horseradish  into  the  vinegar  just  as  it  boils 
up.  Stop  close.  Observe  that  there  is  plenty  of  vinegar.  All 
pickles  are  spoiled  if  not  well  covered.  Mangoes  should  be 
done  soon  after  they  are  gathered. 


English  Bamboo,  to  Pickle 


Melon  Mangoes 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Pickled  Onions 

In  the  month  of  September,  choose  the  small  white  round 
onions;  take  off  the  brown  skin;  have  ready  a  very  nice  tin 
stewpan  of  boiling  water;  throw  in  as  many  onions  as  will 
cover  the  top.  As  soon  as  they  look  clear  on  the  outside, 
take  them  up  as  quick  as  possible,  with  a  slice,  and  lay  them 
on  a  clean  cloth,  cover  them  close  with  another  and  scald  some 
more,  and  so  on.  Let  them  lay  to  be  cold,  then  put  them  in  a 
jar,  or  glass  wide-mouth  bottle,  and  pour  over  them  the  best 
white  vinegar,  just  hot,  but  not  boiling.  When  cold,  cover  them. 

Cucumbers  and  Onions  Sliced 

Cut  them  in  slices,  and  sprinkle  salt  over  them  :  next  day 
drain  them  five  or  six  hours,  then,  put  them  in  a  jar,  and  pour 
boiling  vinegar  over  them,  keeping  in  a  warm  place.  The 
slices  should  be  thick.  Repeat  the  boiling  vinegar,  and  stop 
instantly  ;  and  so  on  till  green. 

Pickled  Sliced  Cucumbers.  Another  Way 

Slice  large  unpared  cucumbers,  an  inch  thick ;  slice 
onions,  and  put  both  into  a  broad  pan  :  stew  a  good  deal  of 
salt  among  them.  In  twenty-four  hours  drain  them,  and  lay 
them  on  a  cloth  to  dry.  Put  them  in  small  stone  jars  and 
pour  in  the  strongest  plain  vinegar,  boiling  hot ;  stop  the  jars 
close.  Next  day  boil  it  again,  and  pour  over,  and  thus  thrice: 
the  last  time  add  whole  white  peppers,  and  a  little  ginger. 
Keep  close  covered. 

Young  Cucumbers 

Choose  nice  young  gherkins  ;  spread  them  on  dishes  : 
salt  them,  and  let  them  lay  a  week  :  drain  them,  and,  putting 
them  in  a  jar,  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them.  Set  them 
near  the  fire  covered  with  plenty  of  vine  leaves.  If  they  do 
not  become  a  tolerably  good  green,  pour  the  vinegar  into 
another  jar,  set  it  over  the  hot  hearth,  and  when  it  boils,  pour 
it  over  them  again,  covering  with  fresh  leaves  ;  and  thus  do 
until  they  are  of  as  good  a  color  as  you  wish  ;  but  as  it  is  now 
known,  that  the  very  fine  green  pickles  are  made  so  by  using 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


brass  or  bell-metal  vessels,  which,  when  vinegar  is  put  into 
them,  becomes  highly  poisonous,  few  people  like  to  eat  them. 

Note — Acids  dissolve  the  lead  in  the  tinning  of  sauce- 
pans. Pickles  should  never  be  kept  in  glazed  jars,  but  in  stone 
or  glass  ;  and  vinegar,  or  any  acids,  should  be  boiled,  by  put- 
ting them  in  jars  of  stone,  over  a  hot  hearth,  or  in  a  kettle  of 
waterstone,  over  a  hot  hearth,  or  in  a  kettle  of  water. 

To  Pickle  Walnuts 

When  they  will  bear  a  pin  to  go  into  them,  put  on  them 
a  brine  of  salt  and  water  boiled,  and  strong  enough  to  bear  an 
egg,  being  quite  cold  first.  It  must  be  well  skimmed  while 
boiling.  Let  them  soak  twelve  days,  then  drain  them,  and 
pour  over  them  in  the  jar  a  pickle  of  the  best  white  wine  vin- 
egar, with  a  good  quantity  of  pimento,  pepper,  ginger,  mace, 
cloves,  mustard  seed  and  horseradish  all  boiled  together,  but 
cold.  To  every  hundred  walnuts,  put  six  spoonfuls  of  mus- 
tard seed,  and  two  or  three  heads  of  garlic,  or  shallots ;  but 
the  latter  is  least  strong. 

Thus  done,  they  will  be  good  several  years,  if  kept  close 
covered.  The  air  will  soften  them.  They  will  not  be  fit  to 
eat  under  six  months. 

The  pickle  will  serve  as  good  as  catsup,  when  the  walnuts 
are  used. 

Nasturtiums  for  Capers 

Keep  them  a  few  days  after  they  are  gathered  ;  then  pour 
boiling  vinegar  over  them,  and  when  cold,  cover. 

They  will  not  be  fit  to  eat  for  some  months  ;  but  are  then 
finely  flavored,  and  by  many  preferred  to  capers. 

An  Excellent  way  to  Pickle  Mushrooms  to  Preserve  the  Flavor 

Buttons  must  be  rubbed  with  a  bit  of  flannel  and  salt  ; 
and  from  the  larger,  take  out  the  red  inside,  for  when  they  are 
black  they  wont  do,  being  too  old.  Throw  a  little  salt  over, 
and  put  them  in  a  stewpan,  with  some  mace  and  pepper.  As 
the  liquor  comes  out,  shake  them  well  and  keep  them  over  a 


190 


The  Southern  Cookbook ' 


gentle  fire  till  all  of  it  be  dried  into  them  again  ;  then  put  as 
much  vinegar  into  the  pan  as  will  cover  them  ;  give  it  one 
warm,  and  turn  all  into  a  glass  or  stone  jar.  They  will  -  keep 
two  years,  and  are  delicious. 

Red  Cabbage 

Slice  it  into  a  colander,  and  sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt ; 
let  it  drain  two  days,  then  put  into  a  jar,  and  pour  boiling  vin- 
egar enough  to  cover,  and  put  a  few  slices  of  red  beet  root. 
Observe  to  choose  the  purple  red  cabbage.  Those  who  like 
the  flavor  of  spice,  will  boil  it  with  the  vinegar.  Cauliflower, 
cut  in  branches,  and  thrown  in  after  being  salted,  will  look  a 
beautiful  red. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Stewed  Onions 

Peel  six  large  onions,  fry  them  gently  of  a  fine  brown, 
but  do  not  blacken  ;  then  put  them  into  a  small  stewpan,  with 
a  little  weak  gravy,  pepper,  and  salt  ;  cover  and  stew  two 
hours  gently.    They  should  be  lightly  floured  at  first. 

Roast  Onions 

Should  be  done  with  all  the  skins  on.  They  eat  well 
alone,  with  salt  only,  and  cold  butter ;  or  with  roast  potatoes, 
or  with  beet  roots. 

To  Stew  Green  Peas 

Put  a  quart  of  peas,  a  lettuce,  an  onion,  both  sliced,  a  bit 
of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  no  more  water  than  hangs  around 
the  lettuce  from  washing.  Stew  them  two  hours  very  gently. 
When  to  be  served,  beat  up  an  egg,  and  stir  into  them,  or  a 
bit  of  flour  and  butter. 

Some  think  a  teaspoonful  of  white  powdered  sugar  is  an 
improvement.  Gravy  may  be  added  ;  but  there  will  be  less 
flavor  of  the  peas.    Chop  a  bit  of  mint,  and  stew  in  them. 

To  Stew  Cucumbers 

Slice  them  thick,  or  halve,  and  divide  them  in  two 
lengths  :  stew  some  salt  and  pepper,  and  slice  onions ;  add  a 
little  broth,  or  a  bit  of  butter.  Simmer  very  slowly  ;  and  be- 
fore serving,  if  no  butter  was  in  before,  put  some,  and  a  little 
flour,  unless  it  wants  richness. 

Another  Way 

Slice  the  onions,  and  cut  the  cucumbers  large  :  flour  and 
fry  them  in  some  butter  :  then  put  on  some  good  broth  or 
gravy,  and  stew  till  enough.    Skim  off  the  fat. 


192 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Orange  Butter 

Boil  six  eggs  hard  :  beat  the  yolks  in  the  mortar  with  fine 
sugar,  orange-flower  water,  four  ounces  of  butter,  and  two 
ounces  of  almonds  beaten  to  a  paste.  When  all  is  mixed,  rub 
it  through  a  colander  on  a  dish. 

Roll  butter  in  different  forms ;  either  like  a  pine,  having 
made  it  in  the  shape  of  a  cone,  and  marking  it  with  a  tea- 
spoon ;  or  rolling  in  a  crimping  form,  or  working  it  through  a 
colander.  Serve  with  scraped  beef  or  anchovies,  garnished 
with  a  wreath  of  curled  parsley. 

Rusks  buttered,  and  anchovies  split  and  rolled. 

Grated  hung  beef  on  rusks  buttered. 

Grated  cheese  on  the  same,  or  in  plate. 

Radishes  placed  around  a  plate,  and  butter  in  the  middle. 

French  beans  boiled  of  a  beautiful  green,  and  served  with 
cream  sauce. 

Jerusalem  artichokes  or  cauliflowers  in  the  same. 

Broccoli  boiled,  served  on  toast,  to  eat  with  poached 
eggs. 

Stewed  vegetables. 

Eggs  poached  on  toast  or  spinach. 

Eggs  buttered  on  toast. 

Custards  in  cups  or  glasses,  with  toast  in  long  sippets. 

Cold  meat  in  slices  on  a  dish,  or  as  sandwiches. 

Ham.    Tongue.    Collared  things.    Hunter's  beef. 

Oysters  cold,  scalloped,  stewed  or  pickled. 

Potted  meat,  birds,  fish,  or  cheese 

Pickled  or  baked  fish. 

Common  cake.    Baked  or  stewed  fruits. 

Pies  of  meat,  fowl,  or  fruit. 

Potatoes  roasted,  boiled,  scalloped,  mashed,  etc. 

Collared  beef,  veal,  or  pig's  head. 

Lobsters.    Crabs.  Prawns. 

Sweetbreads.    Small  birds. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


193 


Forcemeat  for  Patties,  Balls  or  Stuffing 

Crumbs  of  bread,  chopped  parsley,  fat  bacon,  (if  it  has 
been  dressed  it  is  better)  suet,  a  bit  of  fresh  butter,  a  little 
anchovy  liquor,  an  egg,  a  bit  of  onion,  a  very  little  knotted 
marjoram,  a  little  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg. 

This  is  a  much  admired  mixture :  but,  according  to  the 
purpose  it  is  for,  any  addition  may  be  made  to  the  flavor  ;  cold 
ham  or  gammon,  different  herbs,  anchovies,  oysters,  cayenne. 

Note.  To  the  above  should  have  been  added  cold  veal 
or  chicken,  which  is  a  great  improvement.  Some  like  lemon, 
and  lemon-thyme  is  a  good  substitute.  Tarragon  gives  a 
French  flavor,  but  a  very  small  proportion  is  sufficient. 

Fried  Patties 

Mince  a  bit  of  cold  veal,  and  six  oysters ;  mix  with  a  few 
crumbs  of  bread,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  a  very  small  bit 
of  lemon-peel ;  add  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  :  warm  all  in  a 
toaster,  but  do  not  boil.  Let  it  go  cold.  Have  ready  a  good 
puff  paste,  roll  thin,  and  cut  it  in  round  or  square  bits.  Put 
some  of  the  above  between  two  of  them  ,  twist  the  edges  to 
keep  in  the  gravy,  and  fry  them  of  a  fine  brown. 

This  is  a  very  good  thing,  and  baked,  is  a  fashionable 

dish. 

Oyster  Patties 

Put  a  fine  puff  paste  into  small  pattypans,  and  a  bit  of 
bread  in  each ;  and  against  they  are  baked,  have  ready  the 
following  to  fill  with,  taking  out  the  bread.  Take  off  the 
beards  of  the  oysters ;  cut  the  other  parts  in  small  bits  ;  put 
them  in  a  small  toaster,  with  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  the  least 
white  pepper,  and  salt,  a  morsel  of  lemon-peel,  cut  so  small 
that  you  can  scarcely  see  it,  a  little  cream,  and  a  little  of  the 
oyster  liquor.    Simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  before  you  fill. 

Lobster  Patties 

Make  with  the  same  seasoning,  a  little  cream,  and  the 
smallest  bit  of  butter. 

Beef  and  veal  patties,  as  likewise  turkey  and  chicken,  are 
under  the  several  articles  in  the  foregoing  pages. 

(13) 


194 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Sweet  Patties 

Chop  the  meat  of  a  boiled  calf's  foot,  of  which  you 
use  the  liquor  for  jelly,  two  apples,  one  ounce  of  orange  and 
lemon-peel  candied,  and  some  fresh  peel  and  juice  :  mix  with 
them  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  spoonful  of 
brandy,  and  four  ounces  of  currants  washed  and  dried. 

Bake  in  small  pattypans. 

Patties  Resembling  Mincepies 

Chop  the  kidney  and  fat  of  cold  veal,  apple,  orange  and 
lemon-peel  candied,  and  fresh  currants,  a  little  wine,  two  or 
three  cloves,  a  little  brandy,  and  a  bit  of  sugar.  Bake  in  puff 
paste  as  before. 

Mincepie 

Of  scraped  beef  free  from  skin  and  strings,  weigh  two 
pounds  ;  four  pounds  of  suet  picked  and  chopped  ;  then  add 
six  pounds  of  currants,  nicely  cleaned  and  perfectly  dry 
three  pounds  of  chopped  apples,  the  peel  and  juice  of  two 
lemons,  a  pint  of  sweet  wine,  a  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  cloves,  the  same  of  mace,  and  pimento,  in  finest  powder  ; 
press  the  whole  into  a  deep  pan  when  well  mixed,  and  keep  it 
covered  in  a  dry  cool  place. 

Half  the  quantity  is  enough,  and  have  lemon-peel  ready, 
and  put  some  of  each  in  the  pies  when  made. 

Mincemeat  Pies,  Without  Meat 

Of  the  best  apples  six  pounds,  pared,  cored,  and  minced ; 
of  fresh  suet,  and  raisins  stoned,  each  three  pounds,  likewise 
minced  :  to  these  add  of  mace  and  cinnamon  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  each,  and  eight  cloves  in  pounds  of  finest  powdered 
sugar,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  salt,  the  rinds  of  four 
and  juice  of  two  lemons,  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  and  the 
same  of  brandy.    Mix  well,  and  put  into  a  deep  pan. 

Have  ready  washed  and  dried  four  pounds  of  currants, 
and  add  as  you  make  the  pies,  with  candied  fruit. 

-s 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


195 


Lemon  Mincepies 

Squeeze  a  large  lemon  :  boil  the  outside  till  tender  enough 
to  beat  and  mash  :  add  to  it  three  large  apples  chopped,  four 
ounces  of  suet,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  and  four  ounces  of 
sugar.  Put  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  candied  fruit,  as  for 
other  pies.  Make  a  short  crust,  and  fill  the  pattypans  as 
usual. 


OYSTERS 


Oyster*,  to  Stew 

Open  them,  and  separate  the  liquor  from  them,  then  wash 
them  from  the  grit  :  strain  the  liquor,  and  put  with  the  oys- 
ters a  bit  of  mace  and  lemon-pee],  and  a  few  white  peppers. 
Simmer  them  very  gently,  and  put  some  cream,  and  a  little 
flour  and  butter. 

Serve  with  sippets 

Scalloped  Oysters 

Put  them  with  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper,  salt,  nutmes, 
and  a  bit  of  butter,  in  scallop  shells  or  saucers,  and  bake  them 
before  the  fire  in  a  dutch  oven. 

Oyster  Patties,  or  Small  Pies 

As  you  open  the  ovsters,  separate  them  from  the  liquor, 
which  strain  :  parboil  them,  after  taking  off  the  beards.  Par- 
boil sweetbreads,  and  cutting  them  in  slices,  lay  them  and  the 
ovsters  in  layers  :  season  verv  light!}'  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
mace.  Then  put  half  a  tea  cup  of  liquor,  and  the  same  of 
£'raw.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  :  and  before  vou  serve,  out  a  tea- 

O  J  'IT 

cup  of  cream,  a  little  more  ovster  liquor,  and  a  cup  of  white 
gravy,  all  warmed,  but  not  boiled.  If  for  patties,  the  oysters 
should  be  cut  in  small  dice,  gentlv  stewed,  and  seasoned  as 
above,  and  put  in  a  paste  when  ready  for  the  table. 

To  Pickle  Oysters 

Wash  four  dozen  of  o\ >ters  in  their  own  liquor  ;  then 
strain,  and  in  it  simmer  them  till  scalded  enough;  take  them 
out  and  cover  them.  To  the  liquor  put  a  few  pepper-corns,  a 
a  blade  of  mace,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  three  of  white  wine, 
and  four  of  vinegar  :  simmer  fifteen  minutes  ;  and,  when  cold, 
nour  it  on  the  ovsters,  and  keep  them  in  a  jar  close  covered. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


197 


Fried  Oysters,  to  Garnish  Boiled  Fish 

Make  a  batter  of  flour,  milk,  and  eggs  ;  season  it  a  very 
little  ;  dip  the  oysters  in  it,  and  fry  them  a  fine  yellow  brown. 
A  little  nutmeg  should  be  put  into  the  seasoning,  and  a  few 
crumbs  of  bread  into  the  flour. 

Another  Way 

Open  the  number  you  intend  to  pickle;  put  them  into 
a  saucepan,  with  their  own  liquor,  for  ten  minutes  ;  simmer 
them  very  gently  ;  then  put  them  into  a  jar,  one  by  one,  that 
none  of  the  grit  may  stick  to  them,  and  cover  them,  when 
cold,  with  the  pickle  thus  made.  Boil  the  liquor  with  a  bit  of 
mace,  lemon  peel,  and  black  peppers  :  and  to  every  hundred, 
put  two  spoonfuls  of  the  best  undistilled  vinegar. 

They  should  be  kept  in  small  jars,  and  tied  close  with 
bladder,  for  the  air  will  spoil  them. 


198 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU 

Abraham  Lincoln  Dinner,  1861. 


Soup 

Terrapin  Brunoise 

Fish 

English  Salmon  a  la  Hollandaise 
Smelts  fried,  a  l'Anglaise 

Relieves 

Tenderloin  of  Beef  Sauce  Perigord 

Turkey  a  la  Richelieu 
Saddle  of  Venison  with  Currant  Jelly 

Relishes 
French  Mustard,  Spanish  Olives 

Horseradish,  Assorted  Pickles 
Sardines       Apple  Sauce  Celery- 
Entrees 

Sweet  Bread  Larded,  with  Green  Peas 


Venison  Chops,  Sauce  Cherreiul 
Croquets  of  Chicken  a  la  Royal 

Vol  au  Vent  Financiere 

Saline  of  Partridges  a  la  Chasseur 


Roasts 

English  Capons  Canvas  Back  Ducks 

Grouse  Larded  Quails  Larded 

Chicken  Salade  Fried  Oysters 

Pastry  and  Confectionery 

English  Plum  Pudding 
Charlottte  Russeau  Panneir 
Gelve  vin  de  Champagne,  garne  d'Orange 
Blanc  Mange  a  la  Rose 

Maccaroons  "  w  Fancy  Kisses 

Biscuit  Anglais  an  Gelee 

Gateau  au  Chocolate 
Cassette  d'Amande  Sugared  Almonds 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream 


Dessert 

Almonds,  Figs,  Apples,  Walnuts,  Raisins,  Dates,  Filberts, 
Prunes  Oranges 

Coffee 

No  1. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


199 


MENU 

Little  Neck  Clams 


Celery  Radishes  Olives 

Cream  of  Lettuce 


Kennebec  Salmon  Cucumbers 
Potatoes 

Spring  Chicken  Fresh  Aspargus 

Fruit  Punch  Salted  Almonds  Pecans 


Stewed  Snapper 
Cammembert       Brie       Roquefort  Cheese 


Ice  Cream  Water  Ices 

Fancy  Cakes  Strawberries 

Cigars  Coffee 


No  2. 


200  The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU 

Blue  Points 

Green  Turtle  Soup 

Kennebec  Salmon,  Sauce  Holiandaise 

Pommes  de  Boer 
Sweetbreads  French  Peas 

Filet  of  Beef  Mushroom  Sauce 

Supreme  Chicken 
Spinach  Pommes  de  Duchesse 

Punch  Oom  Paul 

Terrapin 

Grouse  Currant  Jelly 

Virginia  Ham 

Lettuce  Salad 
Neufchatel  Roquefort  DeBrie 

Assorted  Ices  Fancy  Cakes 

Coffee 

No  3. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


201 


MENU 


Blue  Points 


Bouillon 


Olives 


Salted  Almonds 


Celery 


Lobster  Cutlets 


Filet  of  Beef,  Mushroom  Sauce 


Chicken  Supreme 


French  Peas 


Duchesse  Potatoes 


Ice  Cream 


Spinach 
Roman  Punch 

Terrapin 


Tomato  and  Lettuce  Salad 
Virginia  Ham 
Wafers  and  Cheese 


Fancy  Cakes 


Coffee 


No.  4. 


202 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU 

Green  Turtle  Soup 


Boiled  Salmon  Lobster  Sauce 


Sweetbread  Croquettes  with  Peas 


No.  5. 


Spring  Chicken 
Potatoes  Baked  Tomatoes 


Roman  Punch 


Cheese  and  Crackers 


Ice  Cream  and  Fancy  Cakes 
Coffee 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


203 


MENU 

Game  on  Toast  Dressed  Lettuce 

Blue  Points 


Celery  Salted  Almonds  Olives 


Clear  Green  Turtle 


Boiled  Salmon  Sauce  Hollandaise 


Filet  de  Boeuf,  Mushroom  Sauce 
Potatoes  Duchesse  Lima  Beans 

Spinach  and  Bacon 


Roman  Punch 


Reed  Birds  on  Toast 


Virginia  Ham 


Lettuce  Salad,  French  Dressing- 


Ices  Fancy  Cakes 

Almonds  Bon-Bons 

Coffee 

No.  6. 


204 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU 

Blue  Points 

Radishes  Olives 
Potage  a  la  Reine 

Lobster  Cutlets  Sauce  Cardinal 

Supreme  of  Spring  Chickens  T<rouffles 

Filet  of  Beef  a  la  Jardiniere 
New  Potatoes  Asparagus 

Roman  Punch 

Sweetbread  Patties 

Snipe  with  Cress  Lettuce  Salad 

Cheese  and  Crackers 

Ices  and  Fancy  Cakes 
Coffee 


No.  7. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


205 


MENU 

Blue  Points  on  Half  Shell 


Soup 

Green  Turtle,  French  Style 
Relishes 

Radishes  Fresh  Tomatoes 


Small  Oyster  Patties 

Boiled  Delaware  Shad,  Butter  Gravy 
Duchesse  Potatoes 


Filet  of  Beef  Larded  with  Mushrooms 
Parisian  Potatoes 


Chichen  Cutlets,  Garnished  with  Fine  Vegetables 
French  Peas  French  String  Beans 

Potato  Croquettes  Asparagus 

Stewed  Terrapin,  Dooner  Style 
Roman  Punch 

Red-Head  Duck  with  Current  Jelly 

English  Snipe,  with  Water  Cresses 
Celery  Lettuce 
Chicken  Salad  Lobster  Salad 

Brie  Rouqefort  American  Cheese 

Assorted  Fruit       Charlotte  Russe        Ice  Cream 
Strawberries  French  Coffee 


Cigars  French  Brandy  Cigarettes 

No.  8. 


206 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU 

Blue  Points 
Soup 

Celery  Olives  Salted  Almonds 

Bisque  of  Asparagus 


Roast  Turkey 
Potatoes  Peas 


Cranberry  Jelly  Roman  Punch 


Tomato  Salad 
Cheese  and  Crackers 


Mince  Pie 
Ice  Cream  Fancy  Cakes 

Rasp  Rolls 

Coffee 


No.  9. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


207 


MENU 

Little  Neck  Clams 

Bisque  of  Asparagus 
Baked  Shad  Sauce  Hollandaise 

Chicken  Supreme       New  Potatoes 
Asparagus  Tips  Spinach  and  Bacon 

Roman  Punch 

Lettuce  and  Virginia  Ham 
Rasped  Rolls  Crackers  Cheese 

Olives  Salted  Almonds 

Vanilla  Baskets  and  Strawberries 
Fancy  Cakes 

Coffee 


No.  10 


208 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU 

Oysters,  Lynnhavens 

Celery  Olives 
Puree  of  Crab 

Planked  Shad 
New  Potatoes  Cucumbers 

Hot  House  Spring  Chicken 
Fresh  Mushrooms 
Lobster  Cutlet        Broiled  Oysters 

Shoe  and  Leather  Exchange  Punch     Salted  Almonds 

Terrapin  a  la  Wiener 
Salad  American    French  Dressing 

Montrose  Pudding 
Fancy  Cakes  Ices  Frozen  Fruits 

Glace  Fruits  Strawberries 

Coffee 


No.  12. 


\  - 

The  Southern  Cookbook  209 


MENU 

Little  Neck  Clams 


Cotelettes  de  Homard 
Salade  de  Crab 


Poulets  de  Printemps 

Pommes  Nouvelles 

Asperges  en  Branche 


Fricessee  de  Terrapine 

Pommes  Saratoga 

Croquettes  de  Volaille 


Petits  Pois 
Salade  de  Pommes  deTerre 
Cornichons         Olives  Tomatoes  Laitue 


Glaces  Variees  Gateaux  Assortis 

Fruit  Glaces 
Framboises  a  la  Creme 

Fruits  Cafe 


No.  13. 


(14) 


210 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU 

Little  Neck  Clams 

Consomme  Pate  D'ltalie 

Boiled  Kennebec  Salmon  Sauce  Hollandaise 

Cucumbers  Parisienne  Potatoes 

Sweetbread,  with  Peas 
Roast  Fillet  of  Beef 
Sauce  Italienne 
Spinach  Pommes  Duchess 

Asparagus 

Roman  Punch 

Terrapin,  Philadelphia  Style 

Plover  au  Cresson 

Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad ' 
Mayonnaise 
Roquefort  Fromage  de  Brie 

Individual  Frozen  Fruits 
Fancy  Cakes 

Olives  Bon-Bons  Salted  Almonds 

Coffee 

No.  14. 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


211 


MENU 

Absecom  Oysters  on  Shell        Little  Neck  Clams 


Soup 

Green  Turtle  Bisque  of  Pea 


Pretania 

Olives  Sliced  Tomatoes  Cucumbers 


Boiled  Salmon,  Sauce  Tonti 

Baked  Sheepshead,  Hollandaise  Sauce 


Releves 

Roast  Ribs  of  Beef 

Roast  Ham,  Champagne  Sauce 
Broiled  Chicken,  Mushroom  Sauce 

Roast  Spring  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce 


Vegetables 

New  Potatoes       Green  Peas       Green  Corn 
String  Beans       Buttered  Beets       Stewed  Tomatoes 


Pastry- 
Cherry  Pie  Cream  Pie         Charlotte  Russe 
Boiled  Fruit  Pudding,  Wine  Dressing 


Dessert 

Peach  Ice  Cream  Roman  Punch 

Champagne  Jelly  Coffee  Jelly 

Peaches         Bananas         Apricots         Plums  Cherries 
Nuts        Raisins        Assorted  Cakes 


English  and  American  Cheese  Tea  and  Coffee 

Apollinaris  Water  Imported  Ginger  Ale 

* 

No.  15. 


212 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU 

Little  Neck  Clams 

Olives  Salted  Almonds 

Bouillon 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg 

Filet  of  Beef,  Mushroom  Sauce 
Roast  Chicken 
New  Peas  Duchesse  Potatoes 

Maraschino  Punch 

Roasted  Squab 
Parisienne  Potatoes 
Tomato  Salad 

Wafers  Cheese 

Bomb  Glace     *  Fancy  Cakes 

Bon-Bons 

Coffee 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


213 


MENU 

Little  Neck  Clams 

Olives  Celery 
Consomme 

Crab  Croquettes 

Roast  Squab 
New  Peas  Potatoes 

Roman  Punch 

Broiled  Oysters 

Chicken  Salad 
Cheese  Balls  Crackers 

Ice  Cream  Fancy  Cakes 

Coffee 


No.  17. 


2  14 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU  • 

Oysters  on  Half  Shell 


Olives  Celery 
Green  Turtle 
Broiled  Kennebec  Salmon  Lobster  Sauce 

Pommes  Hollandaise 


Tenderloin  of  Beef  Piemontaise 
French  Peas 


Roman  Punch 


Roasted  Duckling,  Stuffed 
Apple  Sauce 


Lettuce 


Ices 
Demi  Tasse 


Cheese 


No.  18. 


The  Southern  Cookbook  21 


MENU 

Cherrystone  Clams 


Celery  Olives 
Clear  Green  Turtle 


Lobster  Cutlets  and  Peas 


Filet  de  Boeuf  and  Fresh  Asparagus 
New  Potatoes 


Good  Fellow  Punch 


Salted  Almonds  and  Pecans 
Stewed  Snapper  a  la  Wiener 
Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad 


Roquefort  Crackers 
Cammembert 


Ice  Creams  Water  Ices 

Variety  of  Cakes  Chocolate  Meringues 

Bon-Bons  Strawberries  Coffee 

Apollinaris  Cigars 


No.  19. 


2l6 


The  Souther 71  Cookbook 


MENU 

Blue  Points 

Consomme 
Celery 

Lobster  Cutlets,  Cucumber  Sauce 


Filet  of  Beef 
Peas  Potatoes 


Roman  Punch 


Scotch-Irish  Pioneer  Porridge 
Roast  Quail  on  Toast 

Salad  Crackers  and  Cheese 


Ices 

Coffee  Cigars  and  Cigarettes 


No.  20. 



The  Southern  Cookbook 


2*17 


MENU 

Lynn  Haven  Oysters 


Celery  Olives 
Lobster  Cutlets  Petits  Pois 


Filet 
Fresh  Mushrooms 
Bermuda  Potatoes  Sweet  Potatoes 


Punch 

Almonds  Pecans 


Terrapin 

Asparagus  Salad  French  Salad 

Ice  Cream  Fancy  Cakes 


Glaces  Coffee 
Apolliriaris 


No.  21 


2lS 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


MENU 

Raw  Oysters 


Celery  Olives 
Bisque  of  Tomato  Soup 


Broiled  Blue  Fish,  Hollandaise 
Roast  Philadelphia  Capon 
Creamed  Potatoes  Lima  Beans 


Stuffed  Tomatoes 
Broiled  Oysters  on  Toast 


Crackers  Cheese 


Ice  Cream  Fine  Cakes 


Cigars  Coffee 


No.  22. 


GENERAL  RULES  FOR  TABLE  SETTING 


1  The  room  must  be  in  order,  dean,  free  from  dust,  and. 
well  aired.    Temperature  about  68°  F. 

2  Linen  should  be  immaculate  and  china  and  glass 
glistening. 

3  Place  silence  cloth  (this  should  be  of  some  soft,  heavy 
material,  felting,  canton  flannel,  or  a  clean  cotton  blanket). 

Uses  :  deadens  sound,  protects  top  of  table,  improves 
appearance  of  cloth. 

4  Place  table  cloth  with  center  fold  exactly  in  the  center 
of  the  table  and  the  corners  equally  distant  from  the  floor. 

All  folds  in  the  cloth  should  be  straight  with  the  edge  cf 
the  table. 

5  If  tray  cloth  and  carving  cloth  are  used,  place  tray 
cloth  in  front  of  hostess ;  carving  cloth  in  front  of  host  ;  place 
both  parallel  with  edge  of  table. 

6  On  a  doily  in  the  center  of  the  table  place  a  plant,  cut 
flowers  or  a  dish  of  fruit. 

7  Arrange  the  "  covers.  "  "A  cover"  includes  the 
plate,  napkins,  glasses,  and  cutlery,  which  are  set  in  place  for 
each  individual  before  the  meal  is  served. 

8  At  each  cover  arrange  the  following  : 

Knives  at  right  of  plate,  sharp  edge  toward  plate,  forks  at 
left  of  plate,  tines  up  ;  spoons  at  right  of  knife,  bowls  up. 
Napkins,  plates,  knives,  forks,  and  spoons  are  placed  half  an 
inch  from  the  edge  of  the  table.  The  silver  is  placed  in  the 
order  of  use,  the  first  to  be  used  farthest  from  the  plate. 

Napkin  at  left  of  fork  with  open  corner  toward  handle  of 

fork. 

Tumbler,  open  end  up,  a  little  to  the  right  and  half  an 
inch  from  end  of  knife. 

Butter  plate,  a  little  to  the  left  and  half  an  inch  from  end 
of  fork. 

Salt  and  pepper  cellars,  if  individual,  between  tumbler 
and  butter  plate,  if  not  individual,  place  between  each  two 
covers  or  at  opposite  corners  of  the  table. 


220 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Finger  bowl  and  fruit  napkin  above  fruit  plate  or  on  fruit 
plate  with  doily  between  and  napkin  above  the  plate. 

Place  china  so  decorations  face  the  person  sitting  at  the 

table. 

POSITION   OF  HOST  AND  HOSTESS 

The  end  of  the  table  farthest  from  the  living  room  door 
is  the  head  of  the  table,  the  opposite  end  is  the  foot  of  the 
table.  The  hosts  sits  at  the  head  of  the  table  and  the  hostess 
at  the  foot. 

If  coffee  is  to  be  served  at  the  table,  set  out  the  required 
number  of  cups  and  saucers.  Arrange  them  at  the  left  of  the 
hostess's  cover.  Place  coffee  spoons  on  the  saucers  at  right 
of  cup,  with  handle  of  spoon  and  handle  of  cup  parallel. 

The  cream  pitcher  and  sugar  bowl  should  be  placed  near 
and  the  coffee  stand  at  the  right  of  the  cover. 

Place  serving  spoons  at  the  right  of  the  cover,  beyond 
the  server's  own  silver.  If  a  serving  spoon  is  required,  place 
it  at  the  right  of  the  cover  next  to  the  dull  edge  of  the  serv- 
ing knife. 

Two  minutes  before  the  meal  is  announced  place  the 
butter,  to  one  side,  on  the  butter  plates  and  fill  the  glasses 
three-quarters  full  of  cold  water. 

Place  a  plate  of  cold  bread  either  on  the  table  or  side 
table.  The  water  pitcher  should  be  filled  and  placed  on  a 
plate  on  a  doily  and  should  be  left  on  the  side  table.  Set  an 
extra  supply  of  butter  on  the  side  table. 

The  plate  marks  the  center  of  each  cover.  Allow  from 
25  to  30  inches  for  each  cover  at  the  table. 

Serve  hot  food  on  warm  dishes  and  cold  food  on  cold 
dishes. 

When  the  meal  is  ready  the  waitress  should  quietly 
announce  it  to  the  hostess. 

To  announce  breakfast  the  waitress  should  either  sound 
the  gong  or  say,  "Breakfast  is  served."  To  announce 
luncheon  say,  "  Luncheon  is  served.  "  To  announce  dinner 
say,  4<  Dinner  is  served.  " 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


221 


When  host  or  hostess  is  ready  to  serve  a  course  the  wait- 
ress should 

1  Place  dish  containing  food  in  front  of  server' s  cover. 

2  Bring  in  each  hand,  from  the  side  table,  dish  in  which 
food  is  to  be  served  and  set  down,  the  one  in  the  right  hand 
in  front  of  the  server  close  to  the  dish  containing  the  food. 

3  When  the  dish  is  filled,  take  it  up  with  the  right  hand 
and  set  down  the  second  plate  with  the  left  hand. 

4  Put  the  filled  dish  on  serving  tray  and  place  from  the 
right,  in  front  of  the  person  for  whom  it  is  intended  ;  then 
take  another  dish  from  the  side  table  and  return  to  the  server. 

5  Take  up  the  prepared  dish  and  set  down  the  other. 
Continue  until  all  have  been  served. 

6  Follow  this  method  for  any  course  to  be  served  at  the 
table. 

7  The  waitress  should  stand  to  the  left  of  the  server, 
and  when  there  is  nothing  to  be  passed  she  should  stand  to 
the  left  and  a  little  to  the  back  of  the  host. 

8  If  a  tray  is  used  on  which  to  pass  food,  it  should  be 
covered  with  a  doily.  A  folded  napkin  may  be  placed  between 
the  hand  and  the  dish,  if  a  tray  is  not  used. 

9  A  waitress  must  be  very  careful  not  to  put  her  fingers 
over  the  edge  into  the  dish  she  is  carrying. 

10  Place  food  from  the  right,  pass  food  to  the  left,  and 
take  away  dishes  from  the  right.  When  passing  a  tray  to  the 
left  for  a  guest  to  help  himself,  be  sure  to  hold  the  tray  low 
enough  to  be  reached  with  ease.  Place  the  spoon  in  such  a 
position  that  a  spoonful  may  be  easily  taken  out. 

1 1  The  hostess  may  be  served  first ;  the  host  is  usually 
served  last. 

12  Waitress  should  keep  tumblers  three-fourths  full  of 
C3ld  water.  Remove  them  from  the  table  before  refilling. 
Always  place  the  fingers  at  the  base  of  the  tumbler  when  lift- 
ing it. 

13  When  clearing  the  table  between  courses:  first  re- 
move all  food  :  second,  remove  soiled  china,  glass,  and  silver. 


222 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Remove  everything  relating  to  one  course  before  serving 
another.  Be  sure  to  remove  salt,  pepper,  oil,  vinegar,  etc., 
before  serving  a  dessert  course. 

Plates  should  be  removed,  one  at  a  time,  from  the  right. 
If  two  are  removed  at  once,  take  one  io  each  hand.  Never 

PILE  THE  DISHES. 

Use  a  folded  napkin  and  plate  to  free  the  table  from 
crumbs.  To  crumb  a  table  stand  at  right  of  person  seated  and 
crumb  with  right  hand.  If  crumbs  remain  on  table  at  left  of 
person  seated,  remove  them  with  the  left  hand  from  the  left 
side. 

14  At  a  formal  meal  all  food  is  served  from  "  the  side  ;  " 
i.  e.,  butler's  pantry  or  kitchen.  When  served  from  the  pantry 
waitress  may  bring  two  plates  into  dining-room  at  one  time, 
using  a  large  tray.  Set  this  tray  on  the  side  table  and  serve 
from  it,  using  small  serving  trays  when  passing  the  food. 

DINING-ROOM  ETIQUETTE 

1  Upon  entering  the  dining-room  all  should  stand 
behind  their  chairs  and  remain  standing  until  hostess  sits. 

2  Sit  down  from  the  left :  rise  from  the  right. 

3  Sit  well  forward  in  the  chair.  Sit  straight  and  do  not 
lean  back. 

4  Do  not  unfold  napkin  or  begin  to  eat  until  hostess 
does  so. 

5  Do  not  lean  arms  or  elbows  on  the  table.  Do  not 
twist  feet  around  the  legs  of  the  chair. 

6  When  not  using  the  knife  and  fork  place  them  side  by 
side,  across  the  plate,  the  fork  next  the  sharp  edge  of  the 
knife. 

7  Do  not  leave  spoon  in  the  cup  ;  place  it  in  the  saucer 
to  the  right  of  the  cup  parallel  to  the  handle  of  the  cup. 

8  Host  and  hostess  should  see  that  guests  are  kept  sup- 
plied with  food.  When  offering  a  second  portion  never  ask 
a  guest  if  he  will  "  have  more  "  or  another  piece."  It  is  more 
polite  to  say  :  "  Will  you  have  some  tea  ?  "  or  "  May  I  serve 


The  Souther?!  Cookbook 


223 


you  to  potato  ?  "  or  "  Let  me  help  you  to  this  piece  of  meat." 

9  Host  and  hostess  should  be  careful  not  to  eat  so  rap- 
idly that  they  finish  before  their  guests. 

10  Guests  should  fold  their  napkins  loosely  and  leave 
them  at  the  left  of  the  cover.  Do  not  place  them  upon  the 
table  until  the  hostess  has  placed  hers. 

She  will  not  do  this  until  everyone  has  finished  eating. 
If  a  guest  is  to  be  present  at  more  than  one  meal,  he  should 
fold  his  napkin  in  the  original  crease  and  place  it  at  the  left 
of  his  cover. 

11  Guests  must  not  talk  to  the  waitress. 

12  When  hostess  starts  to  rise,  the  host  and  guest  may 
do  so. 

13  Leave  the  chairs  at  the  table.  Do  not  set  them  back 
against  the  wall. 

14  The  hostess  with  the  guest  at  her  right  should  leave 
the  dining-room  first. 


INDEX 

FOWLS,  ETC. 

Capon,  to  bone                                        ....   \  .  .  .   7 

Chicken,  croquettes    10 

"      curry   13 

"      fricassee  .  •"   11 

"      salad  .   7 

"      pie  ....  ..   12 

"      to  pull    12 

Duck  pie  ,                                                      .   15 

"          to  boil     14 

Fowls,  roasted   15 

"       boiled  with  rice   11 

"       Davenport  .  .    .  .  .     12 

"       forcemeat  for   13 

Giblet  pie  .   16 

"       stewed  *   16 

Goose,  green,  pie   15 

Goose,  to  roast   15 

Grouse   13 

Grouse  or  moor-game,  to  pot   14 

Pheasants  and  partridges   9 

Pigeon  broiled   16 

Pigeon  in  jelly  ' .  .  17 

Pigeon  pickled   16 

Pigeon  pie   18 

Pigeon  potted   17 

Pigeon  roast  ^   17 

Pigeon,  stewed   16 

Pie,  parsley   18 

Turkey  to  boil   8 

"        to  bone   7 

"        to  roast   9 

"           patties   9 

"           pulled   9 

Widgeon,  duck,  teel,  or  moor-hen,  to  roast   14 

FISH 

Carp,  boiled                                                                     .  .  .  .  30 

Cod,  crimp   31 

"  curry  of   31 

(15) 


226 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Cod,  head  and  shoulders  .... 
"  sound,  boiled  ......... 

"   sound,  ragout  

Crab,  hot  

Eel  boiled  

Eel  broth  

Eels  colored  ■. 

Eels,  fried  

Eel  pie  .  .  .  •  

Fish,  observations  on  dressing  .  . 

Fish  pie   . 

Haddock  

Herrings  baked,  or  sprats  .... 

"        broiled  ......... 

fried  .,  .  ■  

"        to  smoke  ........ 

"        red,  to  dress  

Lamprey,  to  stew,  as  at  Worcester 
Lobster,  a  la  Newberg  

"  buttered  

"        curry  of,  or  prawns  .  .  . 

"        pie  .-  

"        to  pot  2 

"  salad  

"        stewed,  as  a  very  high  relish  .  .  

Mackerel   .  .  ;    .  ...... 

Mackerel,  to  pickle,  called  caveach  

Maids  , 

Perch  and  tench   ...... 

Pike,  to  bake  

Pike,  haddock,  etc,  stuffing  for   

Plaice,  an  excellent  way  of  dressing  a  large  

Potato  pastry  ........  \  .  .  .  .  

Salmon   

"       to  boil  •.  . 

a       to  broil  

"       to  dry   

"  »   to  pickle  .  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  \ . , ..  .  ....  .    .  .  .  . 

"        to  pot  .  .  

Shrimp  pie  

Skate,  crimp  .   .  .  . 

Smelts,  to  fry  

Sprats   -  

Soles   . 


The  Southern  Cookbook  227 

Soles,  baked,  stuffing"  for   29 

u    cod,  or  turbot  pie,  another  stuffing   29 

"    Portuguese  way   29 

"    stewed,  and  carp   29 

Sturgeon,  an  excellent  imitation   21 

Sturgeon,  to  dress   21 

Terrapin,  to  dress   jo 

Thornback,  or  skate   21 

Turbot,  to  boil   22 

HARES,  RABBITS,  ETC. 

Hares,  rabbits,  etc  ._   34 

Hare,  broiled  and  hashed   35 

"    35 

"     potted   35 

"     soup   33 

"     to  jug  an  old   35 

Rabbits  '   36 

"      potted   36 

"       to  taste  like  hare   36 

To  prepare  meat  or  fowls,  for  raised  pies   34 

Potting  birds:  an  economical  way   10 

PUDDINGS,  ETC. 

Pudding,  almond   42 

small  .'   54 

"       amber,  a  very  line   43 

"      a  George   48 

"      apricot  ,..    51 

"       bread  and  butter  '   42 

"      baked  apple   43 

"       brown  bread   46 

"       boiled  bread   46 

"       boiled  bread,  richer   46 

"       batter   40 

"       batter,  with  meat  «.   47 

"      baked,  almond   52 

"      brandy   52 

"       buttermilk   53 

"       carrot    .   .  51 

"       common  plain   50 

"       curd,  boiled   53 

"       curd  or  puffs  ,   53 

"      custard   V  50 


228 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Pudding,  dutch  or  souster   44 

"       dutch  rice   ...    /  .....  44 

gooseberry,  baked   52 

"      green  bean  .  .  .  •   \  52 

"      in  haste  .  .............    ........    ....  45- 

"       hunters  .  .   .  .  ...  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  50 

"       lemon   43 

"       light  or  German   44 

"      little  bread  .  ;  .  .-   .  .  45 

"       millet   51 

"      new  college   45 

"       observations  on  making   55 

"       orange  42 — 43 

"       oat  meal   .  44 

Pippin   54 

"      plain  rice   47 

small  "   47 

"       potato  without  meat   49 

"       potato,  plain   51 

"       quick  made   55 

"      rice,  baked   48 

"       rice,  rich   50 

"       rice,  with  fruit   48 

"       Russian  seed,  or  ground  rice   55 

"       Sago   42 

Shelfford  .  .      .  \,  .  

"       steak  or  kidney   49 

"       snowball   49 

"       suet    48 

"      Yorkshire  .      .•   ...    .....  54 

Dumplings,  apple,  currant  or  damson  .  .  .  .  _   49 

"         oxford   46 

"  suet   49 

"  yeast,  or  Suffolk   55 

Pie-crust,  rice   49 

Puffs,  excellent  light   54 

SWEET  DISHES 

Apple  fool   -.  •   .  66 

Blanc  mange  60 

Cream,  an  excellent   .  .  60 

"     a   63 

"     almond   ........  ....  64 

"     burnt   65 


The  SoutJurn  Cookbook 


229 


Cream,  brandy   64 

coffee   66 

"     Imperial  .   63 

"     lemon   60 

"     snow   63 

sack   58 

"     white  lemon                              .  :  .  ';  .  .  .  60 

yellow  lemon,  without  cream   59 

Curds  and  cream   ...     57 — 58 

Custard,  cheap  and  excellent   63 

"       lemon   57 

"       rich   64 

Flummery,  rice  .  .  .  "   57 

Dutch   61 

Floating"  island   59 

Froth,  to  set  on  cream,  custard  or  trifles   59 

Gooseberry  fool   66 

Honeycomb,  lemon   65 

Jelly,  calfs  feet  61—62 

Jelly,  hartshorn   '62 

Jelly,  orange   62 

Junket,  Devonshire   58 

Milk,  rice  and  sago   65 

Orange  fool   66 

Potatoes,  lent   57 

Supper  dish,  a  pretty  S   64 

Syllabub,  everlasting  or  solid   59 

"       London   58 

"       Somersetshire,  a  very  fine   58 

"       Staffordshire                                                       ...  58 

Trifle,  an  excellent   65 

PIES  AND  PASTRY 

Crust,  for  venison  pastry   40 

"     an  excellent  short-crust   39 

"     raised,  for  custard  and  fruits   39 

"          "     for  meat-pies,  fowls,  etc  .■   40 

Paste,  light  for  tarts  and  cheese-cakes   39 

"      a  less  rich                                            .       .   38 

Pastry,  rice                                                                               .  41 

Pastry,  potato   41 

Puff,  German   39 

Pie,  egg  mince   36 

Rice  puff  paste  ,  .  38 


2^0 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


CAKES 

Cake,  observations  on  making  -   67 

"      Benton  tea  ..........  -  .  72 

another  sort                                                .  .  73 

another  sort  as  biscuit   73 

"       biscuit,  a  ........  ~.  .  74 

"      cheap  seed   70 

"       common  bread   70 

w       common   71 

"       cracknels  _   75 

"       cracknuts  _   74 

excellent  and  inexpensive   69 

flat,  that  will  keep  good  long  in  the  house   73 

gingerbread  •-.    .  .  76 

gingerbread,  good,  without  butter   77 

hard  biscuit  <   73 

little  white  ........  72 

"       macaroons  .  .  .  .   76 

"       plain  and  very  crisp  biscuit   73 

f       plum  .  >.-   .  .  • .  .  .       .  .  .  .  ^  ..  .  -.  .  .  .  -r  ■ :  _  67 

%         "    another  .......                        .........  68 

"          "    very  good  common   72 

"         "    little,  to  keep  long   73 

"       pound,  a  good                                    .    71 

"       queen  ~                                             .  ji 

'■       rice   75 

"       saffron,  to  eat  hot  with  potato  butter   7S 

sponge   75 

"          "      without  butter   75 

"       shrewsbun*   72 

"       tea   72 

"       Turnbridge  .   76 

"       very  fine   69 

"       very  good  common   70 

'*       water   74 

"       wafers                                        >  .-  .  76 

"       Yorkshire    79 

Buns,  good,  plain  eaten  with  or  without  toasting  and  butter  ...  77 

Buns,  richer   77 

French  bread                                                .  .   79 

Muffins  ......                                                                    .  77 

Rolls,  Brentford                        .                                                  .  78 

"     excellent.    78 

"     French  .  .  .  -.1                                                               .  78 


The  Southern  Cookbook  231 

Rusks  .   •;,  74 

Short-cakes,  little   103 

SWEETMEATS,  ETC. 

Apricots,  to  dry  in  half   84 

"         to  preserve  in  jelly  .  .  '  ".   84 

"         to  preserve  green  ■ .   S4 

"         cheese.       '-'.;*                                   .  •  \-,i.{r          ;.  .~. .  83 

"         or  peaches,  to  brandy  ...  7   83 

Apple  jelly,  for  any  sort  of  sweetmeats   84 

Barberries  for  tartlets   88 

Barberry  drops   88 

Biscuit  of  fruit   90 

Caramel  cover  for  sweetmeats   91 

Cheese,  damson                                          -  -   89 

Cherries,  to  dry,  with  sugar   81 

"        to  dry,  without  sugar   8i 

"        to  dry,  the  best  way   86 

"        in  brandy   83 

Cherry,  jam                                                    .  .  .  ,    .....  85 

Ginger  drops   88 

Gooseberry  hops   91 

Gooseberry  jam,  for  tarts   87 

Gooseberry  jam,  white                                                      ....  87 

Grapes,  to  preserve  in  brandy   90 

Jam,  raspberry    82 

"    arrowroot  ;  .  99 

"    currant,  red  black   82 

"    raspberry,  for  ices  or  cream   82 

"   tapioca   98 

Lemon  drops   89 

Lemons  or  oranges,  to  preserve  in  jelly   92 

Marmalade,  transparent   92 

Observations  on  sweetmeats   80 

Orange,  to  prepare  to  to  put  into  orange  pudding   83 

"      marmalade                                                        .    ...  86 

chips   93 

"      cakes  .  .  .  .  «  .   '.;  .  .  >  .  ' .  93 

Peppermint  drops                            .        '   89 

Plums,  magum,  as  a  sweetmeat  .  .  .         .  .  90 

Quince  marmalade   86 

Raspberry  cakes   82 

Sago  .....  ~  '.   99 

Strawberries,  to  preserve  whole   85 

Sweetmeat  for  tarts,  when  fruit  is  plentiful                                  .  8r 


232  The  Southern  Cookbook 

Sugar,  to  clarify   80 

Stains,  for  jellies,  ices  and  cake:  .  .  .   89 

DRINKS,  ETC. 

A  very  agreeable  drink   94 

A  refreshing  drink  95 — q6 

Ass's  milk  .   100 

Ass's  milk,  artificial  -   100 

Apple  water   94 

Barley  water  ;  .  .  93—94 

Buttermilk,  with  or  without  bread   100 

Buttermilk,  sweet,  Dr.  Borneaves   100 

Buttermilk   104 

Caudle  ................    .  ~                                .  95 

cold   95 

rice  ~  •  •  95—99 

"       flour  .  .   99 

Chocolate   97 

Coffee    98 — 109 

Coffee  milk   98 

Cream,  to  scald   104 

Egg  wine  -  «   97 

Lemon  water                                        .   94 

Lemonade,  to  be  made  the  day  before  wanted  .-   109 

Milk  porridge  .  „   95 

Milk  porridge,  French  .  .    95 

Orangeade  or  lemonade   94 

Orgeat  .  94 

Rice,  milk,  ground                                                                ...  98 

Sago  milk   99 

Saloop   -  ior 

Toast  and  water  ...  94 

Whey                                                                            ...  96 

Whey,  vinegar  or  lemon   96 

Whey,  white  wine  k~.  ,     '.           ...  96 

THE  HOME  BREWERY 

Alder  wine  .  .  .  -  •  •  • -  •  ?12 

Alder  wine,  white,  Frontinac   112 

Ale  or  beer,  strong   107 

Ale,  very  fine  Welsh,  to  brew  ~.  .  .  107 

Beer,  ale,  wine  and  cider,  to  refine   108 

Beer,  table,  excellent   108 

Brandy,  raspberry   114 

Cherry  wine                                                                            .  112 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


Ginger  wine,  excellent  •  1 1 1 

Imperial   . 

Punch,  Norfolk  

Raspberry  vinegar  

Raspberry  wine  

Raspberry  or  currant  wine   ...... 

Ratafia  

Shrub,  white  currant  

Vender  or  milk  punch  

Wine,  a  rich  and  pleasing  

Wine,  raisin,  with  cider  

WTine,  raisin,  without  cider  -v  . 

FOR  THE  SICK 

A  great  restorative  

A  pleasant  draught  ....... 

Beef  tea  

Broth,  a  clear,  that  will  keep  long- 
Broth,  quick  made  

Broth,  calfs  feet  

Chicken,  broth  

Chicken,  panada  

Chicken,  two  ways  of  preparing  . 

Jelly,  shank  

Panada,  made  in  five  minutes  .  . 
Veal  broth,  very  nourishing  .  .  .. 

SAUCES,  GRAVIES,  ETC. 

Butter,  to  melt  

Catsup,  cockle  

Catsup,  mushroom   •   .  .  . 

Catsup,  walnut,  of  the  finest  sort  

Eggs,  for  pies  or  turtle  

Eggs,  buttered  ,  

Gravy,  veal  

Gravy,  a  rich  .  .  .  . 

Jelly,  to  cover  cold  fish  

Pickle,  lemon  

Powder,  mushroom  

Sauce,  Anchovy  

Sauce,  Bechamel  or  white  

Sauce,  bread  

Sauce,  Benton,  for  hot  or  cold  roast  beef  

Sauce,  cullis  or  brown  

Sauce,  for  white  fowl  


118 


234  The  Southern  Cookbook 

Sauce,  another  for  ducks   122 

Sauce,  egg    124 

Sauce,  for  carp  or  boiled  turkey                             .  .   122 

Sauce,  for  fowl  or  partridge   122 

Sauce,  fish,  a  la  Craster  .  .  .  7  ...  .   126 

Sauce,  fish,  a  very  fine   126 

Sauce,  a  good,  to  hide  bad  color  of  fowls   124 

Sauce,  fish  without  butter  .   123 

Sauce,  lemon   124 

Sauce,  liver  .  .  .  ...  .  .  ...        .    .  ...  .  .  ...  .  .  .  124 

'  Sauce,  lobster  .                                                                  ...  123 

Sauce,  onion  ,   125, 

Sauce,  oyster  ................    .........  125 

Sauce,  Robart,  for  rump  or  steak   122 

Sauce,  shrimp   123 

Sauce,  white,  easily  made   12 

Vinegar,  for  cold  fowl  or  meat  .   122 

Vinegar,  camp  .  .   126 

Vinegar,  shallot   127 

RESPECTING  THE  POOR 

Caudle  for  the  sick  '   131 

Sago  ...............                                  .....  131 

Soup,  a  baked   130 

Soup,  for  the  weakly,  an  excellent  •   131 

DIRECTIONS  TO  SERVANTS 

Boards,  to  give  a  beautiful  appearance   132 

Carpets  and  floors,  to  dust   136 

Carpets  and  floors,  to  clean   136 

Calico  furniture,  to  clean   137 

Floor  cloths   132 

Floor  cloths,  to  clean   133 

Furs  and  woolens,  to  preserve  from  moths   137 

Gilding,  to  preserve  and  clean   135 

Irons,  to  preserve  from  rust   133 

Looking-glasses,  to  clean   135 

Mahogany,  to  give  fine  color  to   136 

Marble,  to  take  stains  out  of  ...                                          .  .  .  136 

Mixture  for  polish  .   133 

Paper-hangings,  to  clean                                                             .  134 

Paint,  to  clean                                                                      .  .  135 

Plate,  to  clean  .  ...  r~.  .......  .                     .    •  '.,''**.'•  135 

Rust,  to  take  out  of  steel  .  .  .  '                    .  .  .  134 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


235 


• 

>tri\TAt    tn  r*  1    q  n  r^o r*lf  r^T  otq        n    n  vtli  (*tr* 

**\tiirc  inn   nillc    tr\  r*  1    q  n.  cfnnp 

'I  in  r*r^\rf^T"c  1  tt H   npirfov  i^r^t*i"fii*-T^/^1"C    t /\  plain 

MEATS,  ETC. 

Bacon,  Wiltshire,  manner  of  curing  .  ......... 

.  .  160 

.  .  164 

Beef,  cakes  for  side  of  dressed  meat  -.  . 

•  •  138 

Beef,  cold,  that  has  not  been  done  enough,  to  dress  

.  .  141 

Beef,  cold,  that  has  not  been  done  enough,  to  dress,  Cecils 

.  .  141 

Beef,  cold,  that  has  not  been  done  enough,  to  dre:;s  Sanders  . 

.  .  141 

Beef,  heart  

•  •  143 

.  .  142 

Beef,  palates  ......  

■  .  138 

Beef,  potted  

•  13s— 1 39 

Beef,  sirloin  of,  to  dress  the  inside  of  .....  

.   .  140 

Beef,  minced                                                                 .  . 

.  .  141 

Beef,  round  of   -  

.  ".  142 

Bubble  and  squeak  

.  .  144 

Calfs  head,  different  wavs  of  dressing  

■'  •  149 

Calf's  head,  fricasseed  

r  52 

Calfs  head,  hashed  

•  -  149 

V  •  152 

•  •  154 

.  •  154 

Collard,  head  

•  •  157 

Collops,  cold  veal  or  chicken  

.  .  146 

Collops,  dressed  quick  

.  .  146 

.  •  145 

.  .  *i46 

.  .  147 

Cutlets,  another  way  

■  M5— 1 4^ 

Forcement,  as  for  turtle,  at  the  Bush,  Bristol  

..  .  150 

Forcement,  for  balls  or  patties  

162 

Hams,  to  cure                                                            .    .  . 

.  158-159 

Hams,  a  method  of  giving  a  higher  flavor  

•  •  .  159 

Hams,  to  dress  '   . 

160 

Haricot  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  '..'«.. \'                      .  .  .  .  ...  . 

.  :  165 

Hogs  cheeses,  to  dry  

Hotchpotch,  an  excellent  

.  ..  169 

Kidney  .  .  .  .  ',   

236  The  Southern  Cookbook 

Knftckle   145 

Lamb   169 

Lamb  forequarter                                                                ...  170 

Lamb,  head  and  hinge   ,170 

Lamb,  steaks  .   167 

Lard,  hogs'  1   162 

Mutton,  breast  of   168 

Mutton,  collops  ........    ...   167 

Mutton  cutlets,  Portuguese  way   169 

Mutton,  ham   169 

Mutton,  rolled  loin  of  .  .  .      .  .  .   168 

Mutton,  steaks  of,  or  lamb  and  cucumber   168 

Mutton,  the  haunch   164 

Mutton  pie   166 

Mutton  and  potato  pie  ....   166 

Mutton  pudding   166 

Mutton  sausages    166 

Mutton  steak   167 

Mutton,  shoulder  of,  boiled  with  oysters   167 

Marrow  bones   140 

Mock  turtle  1 49-1 50-1 51 

Meat  of  a  hog's  head,  to  make  excellent   155 

Neck,  rolled  .  .                                                     .  163 

Ox-cheek,  stew,  plain    ,  .  .  .•  140 

Ox-cheek,  to  dress   140 

Pickle,  for  hams,  tongue  or  beef   163 

Pig's  cheek,  for  boiling   156 

Pig's  feet  and  ears,  different  way  of  dressing   158 

Pig's  feet  and  ears,  fricasseed  .   158 

Pig's  feet  and  ears,  jelly  of  .   158 

Podovies,  or  meat  patties    138 

Pork,  to  roast  a  leg  of   157 

Pork,  to  boil  .  .  .   157 

Pork,  to  pickle  .   161 

Pork  steaks   158 

Pork,  roast  loins  and  neck                                              .  ...    ...  163 

Porkers  head,  to  roast    156 

Potatoes   156 

Puddings,  black   162 

Puddings,  white  hogs'   162 

Ragout,  the  .  \  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  -  139 

Sausages   161 

Sausage,  veal  .....    .   154 

Sausages,  excellent  to  eat  cold                                                   .  161 


The  Southern  Cookbook  237 

Sausages,  Spadsbury's  Oxford   161 

Soup  and  ragout,  Hessian   139 

Sorrel  sauce   153 

Sucking  pig,  to  scald   15,5 

Sucking  pig,  to  roast   155 

Sweetbreads  ."   154 

Sweetbread  ragout                                             •  .   154 

Suet  to  preserve  a  twelvemonth   142 

Tongue  and  udder,  roast   142 

Tongue,  to  pickle  for  boiling   143 

Tongue,  stewed  .  .   144 

Tongue,  an  excellent  mode  to  eat  cold   144 

Tripe   144 

Veal,  leg  of   H4 

V eal,  breast  of  .   1 48 

Veal,  breast  of,  rolled                                        .    .  .      .....  148 

Veal,  or  chicken,  with  ham,  to  pot   147 

Veal,  shoulder  of   I48 

Veal,  patties   153 

Veal,  olives  ..........................  153 

SOUPS 

A  la  sap   176 

An  excellent  ,  173 

Carrot  -   173 

Crawfish  ~-y   ,  1 76 

Giblet  $  171 

Gravy   1 72 

Hare   i75 

Onion   174 

Ox-rump                                            .   .  .  .    ....    ..'  ■   1 76 

Pea,  old  ,   171 

Pea,  green   ^2 

Portable,  very  useful   177 

Scotch,  leek     ....      .....   175 

Scotch,  mutton   175 

Spinach   J75 

Turnip   ,7! 

Vegetable  .-.   174 

White,  a  rich   173 

White,  a  plainer   J73 


238 


The  Southern  Cookbook 


PICKLES 


Cabbage,  red  .  .  ,   19o 

Cucumbers,  pickled  sliced   .  188 

Cucumbers,  young  .   18S 

English  bamboo,  to  pickle  -   J87 

India  pickle   .......  186 

Melon  mangoes   .  187 

Mushrooms,  to  pickle  to  preserve  the  flavor   189 

Nasturtiums,  for  capers  "  189 

Onions  and  cucumbers,  sliced   188 

Onions,  pickled   1S8 

Walnuts,  to  pickle   189 

VEGETABLES 

Beans,  to  preserve  French,  to  eat  in  winter   178 

Cabbage,  red,  stewed   181 

Carrots,  stewed,   182 

Cauliflower  in  white  sauce   181 

Celery,  stewed   181 

Cucumbers,  to  stew  .  .  .  .  T   191 

Mushrooms,  stewed   182 

Mushrooms,  to  dry   182 

Onions,  roasted  -  .   191 

Onions,  stewed    191 

Parsnips,  to  mash   178 

Peas,  green,  to  keep   178 

Peas,  green  to  stew   191 

Peas,  stewed,  old   179 

Potatoes,  to  boil    -r  ;  .  180 

Potatoes,  to  broil   180 

Potatoes,  to  roast    180 

Potatoes,  to  fry  .  .    .  .  .  180 

Potatoes,  to  mash   181 

Spinach,   ...  .  .  181 

Spinach,  French  way    181 

Sorrel,  stewed,  for  Fricandeau,  and  roast  meat  .  .  -   182 

Vegetables,  to  boil  green   179 

OYSTERS 

Oysters,  fried,  to  garnish  boiled  fish   197 

Oysters,  to  pickle   196 

Oysters,  to  stew   196 

Oysters,  scalloped  .  ...   196 

Oyster  patties,  or  small  pies   196 


The  Southern  Cookbook  239 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Anchovies,  to  keep  when  the  liquor  dries   184 

Bacon,  F raise     38 

Browning-,  to  color  and  flavor  made  dishes   1S4 

Butter,  to  clarify    to 

Capers,  to  keep  ......   184 

Cheese,  to  pot  .  .  .   102 

Cheese,  to  roast   102 

Cornish  pics   32 

Cream  cheese    105 

Cream  cheese  mush  105 — ic6 

Dairy,  the   103 

Eggs,  to  poach   103 

Forcemeat  for  patties,  balls  or  stuffing   193 

Gravy,  clear   177 

Gravy  that  will  keep  a  week,  to  draw   177 

Kitchen  pepper  _   1S3 

Lemon  mince  pies   195 

Mawskin,  to  cure  for  rennet  .   104 

Menus  i   198 — 218 

Mince  pie   194 

Mincemeat  pies,  without  meat   194 

Mustard,  to  make   185 

Omelet  '   37 

Orange  butter   192 

Patties,  fried   193 

Patties,  lobster  _  .  .  .  .  193 

Patties,  oyster  v   193 

Patties  resembling  mince  pies   194 

Patties,  sweet  ;  N   194 

Potato  pie   32 

Ramekins   38 

Rice,  buttered   37 

Rice  boiled  to  eat  wtth  curry  or  roast  meat    37 

Rice,  savory   37 

Salads,  French   179 

Salads,  lobster   i$Q 

Small  dishes  for  supper,  etv.    179 

Sprats,  to  make  taste  like  anchovies   184 

Table  setting,  general  rules  .  .   219 

Vinegar,  gooseberry   I(S3 

Vinegar,  sugar                                                                    .   .  ^2 

Vinegar,  wine   183 

When  the  stomach  will  not  receive  meat   ior 

Yeast,  to  make  IOr  — 102 

Yeast,  to  preserve   102 


OCT  28  1912 


ttttk. 


ft 


