Specialties 

of 

Steeples  By 
The  Sea 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/specialtiesofsteOOvirg 


VIRGINIA  BEACH  UNITED 
METHODIST  CHURCH 

Pacific  Avenue  at  19th  Street 

Virginia  Beach,  Virginia  23451 

Phone  (804)  428-7727 


1115-96* 


-A- 


SPECIALTIES 

OF 

STEEPLES  BY  THE  SEA 

Published  by 

THE  AGAPE 
SUNDAY  SCHOOL  CLASS 

COOKBOOK  COMMITTEE 

Gaye  Burton,  Chairman 

Mary  Walker,  Co-Chairman 

Margaret  Yerby,  Illustrator 

Betty  Forbes 

Louise  Stewart 

Virginia  Palmer 

Lucy  Spradlin 

Nancy  Wilson 

A  special  thanks  to  those  who  shared  their  recipes, 
helping  to  make  this  cookbook  a  successful  church-wide 
project. 


LIFE'S  RECIPE 

1  c.  good  thoughts 
1  c.  kind  deeds 

1  c.  consideration  for  others 

2  c.  sacrifice  for  others 

3  c.  forgiveness 

2  c.  well-beaten  faults 

Mix  these  thoroughly.  Add  tears  of  joy  and  sorrow 
and  sympathy  for  others.  Fold  in  4  cups  of  prayer  and 
faith  to  lighten  other  ingredients  and  raise  the  texture  to 
great  heights  of  Christian  living.  After  pouring  all  into 
your  daily  life,  bake  well  with  the  heat  of  kindness  and 
serve  with  a  smile. 


Submitted  by, 

Caroline  Kennett 

Louise  Stewart 


1115-96*  -C- 


GIVING  THANKS 


Come,  Lord  Jesus,  our  guest  to  be,  bless  these  gifts 
bestowed  by  Thee. 

Bless  our  friends  everywhere  and  keep  them  in  Thy 
loving  care.  Amen. 

Dear  Lord,  thank  you  for  these  and  all  our  many 
blessings  and  save  us  for  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

God  is  great;  God  is  good.  Let  us  thank  Him  for  this 
food.  Amen. 

Give  us  grateful  hearts,  our  Father,  and  make  us 
mindful  of  the  needs  of  others  through  Christ  our  Lord. 
Amen. 

Dear  Lord,  we  thank  you  for  this  food.  Bless  it  to  our 
use  and  us  to  Thy  service.  Amen. 

Accept  our  thanks,  Heavenly  Father,  for  these  and  all 
of  our  blessings.  Forgive  us  our  sins  and  use  us  in  Christ's 
service.  Amen. 

Our  kind  Heavenly  Father,  we  are  thankful  for  this 
food  that  has  been  prepared  for  the  nourishment  of  our 
bodies.  Forgive  us  our  sins  and  Heaven  save  us.  We  ask 
it  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


-D- 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


Appetizers   1 

Breads  &  Sandwiches   11 

Desserts    27 

Low  Calorie    83 

Main  Dishes   97 

Meat,  Poultry  &  Seafood   127 

Soups  &  Salads  149 

This  "N"  That   177 

Vegetables  187 


Published  and  Printed  By 
Fundcraft  Publishing 

P.O.  Box  340 
Collierville,  TN  38027 


All  rights  reserved.  No  part  of  this  book  may  be  reproduced,  stored  in  a  retrieval  system 
or  transmitted  in  any  form,  or  be  reproduced  by  any  means,  electronic,  mechanical, 
photocopying,  recording  or  otherwise  without  the  prior  written  permission  of  the 
publisher,  except  by  a  reviewer  who  wishes  to  quote  brief  passages  in  connection  with  a 
review  for  magazine,  broadcast  or  newspaper. 


*j4ftfwU%&tA 


1115-96 


APPETIZERS 


ARTICHOKE  PARTY  DIP 

1  large  can  artichokes,  drained  dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce 

and  chopped  1  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

1  c.  Heilmann's  real  mayonnaise 

Combine  all  ingredients,  then  add  a  little  more  cheese  on  top. 
Bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes. 

Linda  Magruder 
Charlotte  Brandt 


BLACK  BEAN  DIP 

2  small  (3  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  can  condensed  black  bean  2  Tbsp.  minced  parsley 

soup  2  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

1  small  onion,  finely  chopped  4  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Mash  cream  cheese  until  smooth.  Add  other  ingredients;  blend 
until  well  mixed  and  smooth.  Chill  at  least  3  hours  before  serving. 
Can  be  prepared  ahead,  as  it  keeps  well  in  refrigerator  for  several  days. 
Makes  about  2  Vi  cups. 

Betty  Broyles 


BUTTER  ROASTED  PECANS 

You  decide  how  many  pecans  you  want  to  roast,  and  that  will 
determine  what  size  pan. 

Preheat  oven  to  275°.  Put  pecans  in  a  greased  shallow  pan.  Bake 
until  golden,  about  20  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  melted  butter  during 
baking.  Season  with  onion  salt,  cayenne  or  paprika. 

Jo  Sanders 


111596 


-   1   - 


APPETIZERS 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

1  stick  butter  (no  substitute)  1  tsp.  paprika 

8  oz.  sharp  cheese,  shredded  Va  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  plus  2  Tbsp.  flour  whole  pecans 

Have  butter  and  cheese  at  room  temperature.  Add  flour,  paprika 
and  salt;  mix  well.  Divide  into  3  rolls;  wrap  in  waxed  paper  and  chill. 
Slice  and  add  a  nut  on  top.  Bake  at  350°  for  12  minutes. 

Linda  Magruder 

COCKTAIL  PIZZAS 

1  lb.  hot  pork  sausage  2  cloves  garlic,  finely  chopped 

1  c.  minced  onions  10  oz.  tomato  sauce 

V2  c.  grated  sharp  Cheddar  4  oz.  tomato  paste 

cheese  salt  to  taste 

Va  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese  2  cans  refrigerated  flaky  biscuits 
1  V2  tsp.  oregano 

Cook  sausage,  crumbling  it  as  it  cooks;  drain  well.  Separate  each 
biscuit  into  3  equal  parts.  Place  rounds  on  a  cookie  sheet.  In  a  large 
bowl,  combine  sausage  with  other  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Place 
about  1  Vi  tablespoons  of  sausage  mixture  on  each  round.  Freeze  on 
cookie  sheet.  When  frozen,  transfer  to  plastic  bags.  When  needed, 
preheat  oven  to  425°  and  bake  for  8  to  10  minutes.  Serve  immediately. 

Mary  Walker 

CRAB  DIP 

7  oz.  crabmeat  (small  can)  1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  1  tsp.  horseradish 

1  tsp.  onion  salt  Va  c.  sliced  almonds  (for  top) 

a  shake  of  salt  and  pepper 

Mix  all  ingredients  together,  except  almonds.  Cook  at  350°  for 
20  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  Put  in  a  dish  and  sprinkle  with  almonds. 
Serve  warm.  Use  with  crackers,  carrots  or  cauliflower  florets. 

Peggy  Wilkinson 


-2- 


APPETIZERS 

CREAM  CHEESE  AND  BEEF  BITS 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese,  1  (2  Va  oz.)  jar  dried  beef,  finely 
softened  shredded 

2  Tbsp.  prepared  horseradish 

Mix  cream  cheese  and  horseradish.  Shape  into  24  (%-inch)  balls. 
Place  finely  shredded  beef  on  sheet  of  waxed  paper.  Roll  balls  in  dried 
beef  to  coat  evenly;  arrange  balls  on  plate.  Cover  and  refrigerate  until 
firm.  Yields  24  balls. 

Louise  Lowery 

CREAM  CHEESE  AND  HERB  DIP 

1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  2  Tbsp.  each:  fresh  tarragon, 

2  to  4  Tbsp.  sour  cream  chervil  and  parsley 

1  Tbsp.  creamed  horseradish  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Finely  chop  fresh  herbs.  (If  you  can't  find  fresh  tarragon  and 
chervil,  soak  1  tablespoon  each  of  the  dried  variety  in  lemon  juice  for 

2  hours  before  adding  to  the  mixture.)  Mix  ingredients  together  and 
season  well. 

Brenda  Potter 


ELEGANT  CRAB  DIP 

1  envelope  Knox  gelatine  1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese, 
Va  c.  chopped  onion  softened 

1  c.  finely  chopped  celery  Va  c.  salad  dressing  (your  choice) 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  1  lb.  crabmeat,  picked  over 

Soften  gelatine  in  Va  cup  cold  water.  Heat  soup  until  very  hot 
(just  before  boiling).  Add  gelatine  and  stir  in  thoroughly.  Beat  in 
cream  cheese,  then  salad  dressing.  Pour  into  a  mold  and  chill  until 
firm.  Unmold  and  serve  with  crackers.  Can  also  be  put  in  a  9-inch 
square  pan  and  used  as  a  salad  on  lettuce. 

Recipe  from  Ellie  Bates. 

Shirley  Britton 


111596 


-3- 


APPETIZERS 


FRUIT  DIP 


1  1/4  c.  milk 

1  box  vanilla  instant  pudding 
1  (6  oz.)  frozen  orange  juice, 
thawed 


Vi  c.  sour  cream 

fresh  fruits  (pineapple,  bananas, 
strawberries,  apple  slices,  star 
fruit;  any  fruit  in  season) 


Arrange  a  platter  of  fresh  fruits.  Beat  the  milk,  pudding  mix, 
orange  juice  and  sour  cream.  Drizzle  mixture  over  top  of  fruit  gener- 
ously. Refrigerate  the  rest  of  the  mixture. 

Barbara  Digges 
GREEN  CHILI  PIE 


3  (3  oz.)  cans  Ortega  chopped 

green  chili  peppers 
2  Tbsp.  jalapeno  juice 
20  slices  bacon,  crisp  fried 
2  lb.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 


%  c.  grated  Swiss  cheese 
12  eggs,  beaten 
1/2  tsp.  salt 
V'4  tsp.  pepper 


Grease  a  3-quart  Pyrex.  Line  bottom  and  sides  with  chilies.  Cook 
and  drain  bacon;  crumble  over  chilies.  Mix  other  ingredients  and  pour 
over  bacon.  Bake  at  325°  for  40  minutes.  Cut  in  bite  size  squares  and 
serve.  Great  appetizer. 

Betty  Broyles 
HOT  CRAB  DIP 


1  large  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  Tbsp.  oil 

2  c.  light  salad  dressing 

V»  c.  scallions,  thinly  sliced 
V2  c.  chopped  pimiento,  drained 
1  c.  fresh  Parmesan  cheese 
1  Vi  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
4  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 


3  little  pickled  jalapenos, 

chopped 
1  tsp.  celery  salt 
1  lb.  crab  meat  or  crab  legs 
V3  c.  almonds  or  pecans 
1  (8  count)  pkg.  small  pita  bread 
melted  butter 


Cook  green  pepper  in  oil;  cool.  In  large  bowl,  add  the  next  8 
ingredients;  blend  well.  Mix  in  crab  and  place  mixture  in  greased  cas- 
serole. Sprinkle  nuts  on  top.  Bake  in  preheated  oven  at  375°  for  25 
to  30  minutes,  or  until  golden  brown  and  bubbly. 

Separate  pita  bread  and  cut  into  triangles.  Brush  with  melted 
butter;  bake  at  375°  for  10  to  12  minutes.  Serve  hot  dip  with  pita  chips. 

Chrissy  Hodden 


-4- 


APPETIZERS 

JEZEBEL  SAUCE 

1  (18  oz.)  jar  apricot  preserves  1  tsp.  coarse  black  pepper 

1  (18  oz.)  jar  apple  jelly  cream  cheese  (for  serving) 

1  (5  oz.)  jar  horseradish  crackers  (for  serving) 
1  (1  oz.)  can  dry  mustard 

Combine  all  ingredients,  except  cream  cheese  and  crackers,  in 
blender;  mix  well.  Serve  over  cream  cheese  spread  on  crackers.  Keeps 
indefinitely  in  refrigerator.  Yields  6  cups. 

Gaye  Burton 

MEXICAN  DIP 

1  (15  oz.)  can  refried  beans  1  (4  oz.)  pkg.  shredded  Cheddar 

1  (8  oz.)  carton  sour  cream  cheese 

Put  refried  beans  in  lightly  greased  baking  dish.  Cover  with  sour 
cream.  Sprinkle  cheese  on  top.  Heat  in  a  350°  oven  long  enough  to 
melt  the  cheese.  May  be  microwaved  if  desired.  Use  taco  chips  to  dip. 

Martha  Tankersley 

PARMESAN  PUFFS 

1  (3  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  Va  tsp.  cayenne  pepper 

1  c.  mayonnaise  1  loaf  bread,  sliced  thin 

V3  c.  finely  chopped  green  onions  paprika 

1  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese  (1A 
c.  reserved  for  topping) 

Preheat  oven  to  300°.  Mix  the  first  5  ingredients  and  set  aside. 
Place  thinly  sliced  bread  on  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  300°  for  5  minutes 
to  harden.  Generously  spread  cheese  mixture  on  bread;  sprinkle  with 
a  pinch  of  the  reserved  Parmesan  cheese  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Broil 
until  puffy  and  golden.  Serve  immediately.  Yields  about  30. 

The  first  two  steps  can  be  completed  and  set  aside  until  last  min- 
ute finishing  is  desired. 

Malinda  Connell 


5- 


APPETIZERS 


PARTY  MIX 


2  c.  Bugles 

2  c.  Crispix  cereal 

1  c.  Pepperidge  Farm  goldfish 

2  c.  small  pretzels 

2  c.  cheese  wedges  (any  small 
cheese  cracker) 


2  c.  Cheerios  or  Rice  Chex 
2  c.  Spanish  peanuts 

1  pkg.  dry  Ranch  dressing 

2  tsp.  dill  weed 
%  c.  salad  oil 


Mix  the  Ranch  dressing,  dill  weed  and  salad  oil.  Pour  over  mix 
with  cereals  and  crackers.  Pour  on  baking  sheet.  Bake  for  1  Vi  hours 
at  225°. 


Linda  Magruder 


PINEAPPLE  CHEESE  BALL 


2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  (8  Va  oz.)  can  crushed 
pineapple,  drained 

2  c.  pecans,  chopped  (reserve  1 
c.  for  coating) 


Va  c.  green  pepper,  chopped 
2  Tbsp.  onion,  chopped 
1  tsp.  seasoned  salt 


Soften  cream  cheese  at  room  temperature.  Mix  all  ingredients 
and  divide  into  desired  size  balls.  Roll  each  in  reserved  chopped  nuts. 

Joyce  Clarke 

PINWHEEL  APPETIZERS 

4  (12-inch)  flour  tortillas 

Filling: 

2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese, 
softened 

5  green  onions 
1  small  can  green  chilies  (save 

juice) 


1  can  chopped  black  olives 
1  small  can  chopped  pimento 
1  pkg.  Hidden  Valley  Ranch 
dressing 


Filling:  Mix  ingredients.  (Add  green  chili  juice  if  mixture  is  too 
thick.)  Spread  Va  of  mixture  onto  each  tortilla.  Roll  the  tortilla,  start- 
ing from  one  end.  Wrap  each  roll  in  plastic  wrap  and  chill  at  least  2 
hours. 

Cut  off  ends  and  cut  into  slices. 

Carrie  Knoche 


-6- 


APPETIZERS 


PIZZA  BISCUITS 


1  pkg.  (10)  refrigerated  biscuits 
1  (6  oz.)  can  tomato  paste 
6  oz.  Cheddar  or  Mozzarella 

cheese,  shredded 
V*  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


1/2  lb.  Italian  sausage,  cooked  and 
crumbled  with  1  tsp.  oregano 
and  1  clove  minced  garlic 

Vz  lb.  chopped  pepperoni 
(optional,  instead  of  the  Italian 
sausage) 


Preheat  oven  to  425°.  Place  biscuits  on  greased  baking  sheet. 
With  bottom  of  floured  custard  cup,  make  a  hollow  in  each  biscuit,  4 
inches  in  diameter  (leave  a  rim).  Fill  with  tomato  paste  and  sausage 
or  pepperoni.  Sprinkle  with  shredded  cheese,  then  Parmesan  cheese. 
Bake  for  10  minutes. 

Margaret  Zimmerman 

SMOKED  FISH  SALAD 


1  c.  smoked  Mahi,  chopped 
1/2  c.  celery,  chopped 
1A  c.  mayonnaise 

Mix  all  ingredients  together, 
crackers. 


lemon  juice  (optional  to  taste) 
minced  onion  (optional  to  taste) 


Refrigerate.  Serve  with  unsalted 


Keith  Gore 


SMOKED  SALMON  DIP 


1  large  (14  Vi  oz.)  can  salmon, 

drained 
1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  low-fat  cream 

cheese 
V2  c.  minced  onion 


3  cloves  garlic,  minced 

juice  of  1  lemon 

1  tsp.  liquid  smoke 

3  Tbsp.  low-fat  mayonnaise 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 


Place  all  ingredients  into  a  mixer  and  mix  well.    Spread  on 
crackers. 

Esty  Vollrath 


111596 


-7- 


APPETIZERS 

SMOKED  SALMON  MOUSSE 

1  lb.  smoked  salmon  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Va  c.  lemon  juice  capers  and  lemon  wedges  (for 

1  c.  butter,  melted  garnish) 

1  c.  sour  cream 

Puree  salmon  in  blender  or  food  processor.  Add  lemon  juice. 
With  machine  on,  add  butter,  a  little  at  a  time.  Remove  mixture  to 
mixing  bowl.  Gently  fold  in  sour  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Pack  into  serving  dish  or  crock.  Garnish  with  capers  and  lemon 
wedges.  Serve  with  crackers. 

Betty  Broyles 

SNACK  CRACKERS 

2  boxes  small  oyster  crackers  1  Tbsp.  dill  weed 

1  scant  c.  oil  1  pkg.  Hidden  Valley  salad 

1  tsp.  garlic  powder  dressing  mix  (original) 

Mix  garlic  powder,  dill  weed  and  Hidden  Valley  Ranch  dressing 
mix  with  oil.  Pour  over  crackers  and  mix.  Bake  at  300°  for  3  hours; 
stir  every  hour. 

Pat  Gore 


SPINACH  BALLS 

2  pkg.  frozen  chopped  spinach,  V2  stick  margarine  or  butter 

thawed  and  dry  as  possible  1  Tbsp.  garlic  salt 

2  c.  Pepperidge  Farm  herb  V2  tsp.  pepper 

dressing  crumbs  V2  tsp.  thyme 

2  medium  chopped  onions  6  oz.  grated  sharp  cheese 

4  beaten  eggs 

Mix  well;  shape  into  desired  size  ball  (about  size  of  English  wal- 
nut). Bake  at  350°  for  20  to  25  minutes.  Serve  warm.  Can  dip  in  mus- 
tard or  any  favorite  dip  of  your  choice.  These  freeze  well. 

Rachel  Robeson 


8- 


APPETIZERS 


SPINACH  DIP 


2  c.  mayonnaise 
V2  c.  parsley  sprigs 
V2  small  onion,  cut  up 
1  small  clove  garlic 
1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 


Va  tsp.  pepper 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  chopped 

spinach,  thawed  and  drained 

on  paper  towels 


Blend  all  ingredients  at  high  speed  until  finely  chopped.  Place 
in  closed  container  and  refrigerate  at  least  4  hours.  Makes  2  lA  cups. 

Louise  Lowery 


TACO  DIP 


1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 
1  medium  onion,  grated 
1  c.  Miracle  Whip 
1  medium  strength  salsa  sauce 
(16  oz.) 


1  green  pepper,  chopped 

3  or  4  fresh  tomatoes,  chopped 

1  pkg.  Monterey  Jack  cheese, 

shredded 
1  pkg.  corn  chips 


Mix  together  cream  cheese,  grated  onion  and  Miracle  Whip.  Put 
on  bottom  of  13  x  9  x  2-inch  dish.  On  top  of  this,  layer  a  little  salsa 
sauce,  green  pepper  and  chopped  tomatoes.  Try  to  make  at  least  two 
layers.  Sprinkle  cheese  on  top.  Refrigerate  about  2  to  3  hours  or  over- 
night. Dip  with  chips. 

Jean  Dutzer 
Florida 


-9- 


APPETIZERS 

TEX-MEX  DIP 

2  (10  oz.)  cans  bean  dip  %  c.  chopped  green  onion 

3  ripe  ayocados  2  medium  tomatoes,  peeled, 
juice  of  1  iemon  drained  and  chopped 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste  1  large  can  sliced  pitted  black 
1  c.  sour  cream  olives 

f/a  c.  mayonnaise  3  c.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 
1  pkg.  taco  seasoning  mix  grated 

On  a  large  round  or  oval  platter,  layer  as  follows: 

Layer  1:  Spread  bean  dip. 

Layer  2:  Avocados,  mashed  with  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper. 

Layer  3:  Mix  sour  cream,  mayonnaise  and  taco  seasoning  and 
spread. 

Layer  4:  Green  onions. 

Layer  5:  Tomatoes. 

Layer  6:  Olives. 

Layer  7:  Grated  cheese. 

Chill  to  allow  flavors  time  to  blend.  Serve  with  corn  or  tortilla 
chips.  Serves  10  to  12. 

Malinda  Connell 


-10- 


1115-96 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

ANGEL  BISCUITS 

5  c.  flour  3/4  c.  butter 

5  Tbsp.  sugar  1  pkg.  yeast 

1  Tbsp.  baking  powder  3  Tbsp.  warm  water 

1  tsP-  salt  2  c.  buttermilk 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

Preheat  oven  to  400°.  Sift  all  dry  ingredients.  Use  pastry  blender 
to  cut  in  butter  until  crumbly.  Dissolve  yeast  in  water.  Stir  yeast  and 
buttermilk  into  flour  mixture.  Roll  out  onto  a  floured  surface  and  cut 
with  round  cutter.  Place  on  baking  sheet  sprayed  with  Pam.  Bake  for 
10  to  15  minutes  or  until  brown. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 

BANANA  NUT  BREAD 

1  c.  butter  2  tsp.  soda 

2  c.  sugar  4  c.  flour 

4  e99s  6  large  ripe  mashed  bananas 

1/4  tsP-  salt  1  c.  chopped  pecans 

Preheat  oven  to  275°.  Grease  2  loaf  pans.  Cream  butter  and  sug- 
ar. Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  and  add  to  creamed  mixture.  Add  bananas  and  nuts. 
Pour  into  prepared  pans  and  bake  for  1  Vi  hours  or  until  test  done. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 


-  11  - 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

BANANA  CHOCOLATE  CHIP  BREAD 

V2  c.  butter  or  margarine,  1  tsp.  baking  soda,  dissolved  in  3 

softened  Tbsp.  hot  water 

1  c.  sugar  3  large  bananas,  mashed 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  c.  flour  V*  to  1  (12  oz.)  bag  mini  morsel 

chocolate  chips  (as  desired) 

Preheat  oven  to  375°.  Combine  butter,  sugar  and  eggs;  blend 
well.  Mix  in  dissolved  baking  soda.  Add  1  cup  flour  and  beat  well. 
Add  bananas,  remaining  1  cup  flour  and  vanilla;  mix  until  smooth. 
Mix  in  Vi  to  1  bag  of  mini  chocolate  chips,  as  desired.  (Large  or  regular 
size  chips  will  sink  to  bottom.)  Bake  in  loaf  pan  for  45  minutes.  Bake 
in  4  mini  loaf  pans  for  35  minutes  or  in  cupcake  or  mini  size  for  25 
to  30  minutes. 

Kathy  Payne 

BRAN  MUFFINS 

3  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

4  eggs  1A  tsp.  nutmeg 

5  c.  plain  flour  V*  tsp.  ground  cloves 

1  qt.  buttermilk  1  c.  cooking  oil 

5  tsp.  baking  soda  1  (15  oz.)  box  Kellogg's  Raisin 

2  tsp.  salt  Bran  cereal 
1  Tbsp.  vanilla 

Place  sugar  in  mixing  bowl.  Alternately  add  eggs,  flour  and  but- 
termilk; mix  well.  Add  soda,  salt,  vanilla,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  cloves 
and  oil;  mix  well.  Fold  in  Raisin  Bran.  Place  paper  baking  cups  in 
muffin  tin  and  fill  each  to  the  top  with  batter.  Bake  at  400°  for  20  min- 
utes. Batter  will  keep  in  refrigerator  for  6  weeks.  Makes  3  dozen 
muffins. 

Betty  Jefferson  Harris 


-12- 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

BREAKFAST  SURPRISE 

1  lb.  sausage  (mild  or  hot)  1A  c.  margarine 

2  small  jars  Old  English  cheese  1  (6  count)  pkg.  English  muffins 

Cook  sausage;  drain.  Add  cheese  and  margarine.  Cook  over 
medium  heat  until  cheese  and  margarine  melt.  Blend  together. 

Open  English  muffins  so  you  have  12  halves.  Spread  the  sausage 
mixture  on  the  halves.  Put  on  cookie  sheet  and  freeze.  When  frozen, 
stack  in  plastic  storage  bags  in  the  freezer.  When  company  comes, 
break  out  the  sausage  muffins  for  that  first  breakfast.  Heat  muffins 
in  a  low  oven  (300°)  until  hot  and  bubbly. 

Gaye  Burton 

BROCCOLI  CORNBREAD 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  chopped  1  medium  onion,  chopped 
broccoli,  thawed  4  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

2  boxes  Jiffy  cornbread  muffin  1  (8  oz.)  container  small  curd 
mix  cottage  cheese 

Vk  stick  margarine,  melted 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  bake  in  greased  9  x  13-inch  pan 
at  350°  for  35  to  40  minutes. 

You  can  also  add  2  to  3  tablespoons  of  chopped  jalapeno  pepper 
to  give  it  a  zip.  Super!! 

Berry  Broyles 

BUBBLE  BREAD 

2  frozen  bread  dough  loaves  2  Tbsp.  cinnamon 

2  sticks  melted  butter  Vfc  c.  brown  sugar 

1  c.  white  sugar  chopped  walnuts  and  raisins 

Let  frozen  dough  soften,  not  rise.  Break  off  pieces  and  make  wal- 
nut size  balls.  Mix  two  types  of  sugar  and  cinnamon  together.  Dip 
bread  balls  into  melted  butter,  then  roll  in  sugar  mixture. 

Grease  and  flour  large  "angel  food"  tube  pan.  Sprinkle  walnuts 
and  raisins  on  bottom  of  pan,  then  layer  of  bread  balls  and  another 
layer  of  walnuts  and  raisins,  followed  by  bread  balls.  Pour  unused 
melted  butter  and  sugar  mixture  on  top.  Let  rise  overnight  in  refriger- 
ator. Bake  at  325°  for  40  minutes. 

Jean  Dyer 


-  13  - 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

CHEESY  ENGLISH  MUFFINS 

1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  sharp  Cheddar  1  c.  mayonnaise 

cheese,  grated  English  muffins  or  thin  sliced  rye 

6  green  onions,  chopped  bread 
V2  tsp.  garlic  salt 

Mix  the  first  4  ingredients  together;  spread  on  split  English  muf- 
fins (cut  into  quarters)  or  spread  onto  rye  bread.  Bake  at  400°  for  10 
minutes,  until  light  brown  and  cheese  has  melted. 

Judy  Garner 


COMPANY  CORN  BREAD 

1  (12  oz.)  box  corn  muffin  mix  Vs-  c.  margarine,  melted 

1  (8  V2  oz.)  can  whole  corn  1  c.  sour  cream 

1  (8  1/2  oz.)  can  creamed  corn  2  eggs,  beaten 

Mix  all  ingredients  well.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  to  40  minutes. 

Lois  Speas 

CORNED  BEEF  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICH 

1  (12  oz.)  can  corned  beef  3  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

2  c.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese  12  pimiento-stuffed  olives, 
V*  c.  chopped  onion  chopped 

1/4  c.  catsup  or  barbecue  sauce  12  hot  dog  or  hamburger  buns 

2  hard-cooked  eggs,  chopped 

Combine  the  first  7  ingredients;  mix  well.  Spoon  corned  beef 
mixture  into  buns;  wrap  each  bun  separately  in  aluminum  foil,  sealing 
well.  Place  foil  wrapped  buns  on  a  cookie  sheet.  Bake  in  preheated 
400°  oven  for  15  minutes.  Yields  12  servings. 

Note:  Sandwiches  may  be  made  ahead  of  time;  wrap  in  foil  and 
refrigerate.  Bake  as  directed. 

Gaye  Burton 


-14- 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 


CORNBREAD 


1  (8  Vz  oz.)  Jiffy  cornbread  or 

corn  muffin  mix 
1  small  can  creamed  corn 


3  eggs 

V2  c.  oil 

1  c.  sour  cream 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Pour  into  greased  8  x  8-inch  pan. 
Bake  at  400°  for  about  20  minutes,  until  golden  brown.  Cut  into 
squares.  Serves  9. 

Cynthia  Bowden 

CRAB  ON  ENGLISH  MUFFIN 


2  (6  oz.)  cans  deluxe  white  crab 

meat 
1  (5  oz.)  jar  Kraft  Old  English 

cheese 


1  stick  butter  or  margarine 
1  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 
1  tsp.  garlic  salt 
5  to  6  English  muffins 


Melt  butter;  blend  in  cheese  with  a  fork.  Flake  crab  meat  into 
cheese  mix.  Add  garlic  and  mayonnaise;  mix  well.  Split  muffins. 
Spread  on  cheese  and  crab  mixture.  Heat  in  400°  oven  or  place  under 
broiler,  until  golden  brown  and  bubbly.  Serve  halves  for  lunch  and 
quarters  for  hors  d'oeuvres. 

Caroline  Kennett 


-  15  - 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 


CREAM  CHEESE  BRAIDS 


Dough: 


1  c.  sour  cream 
V2  c.  sugar 

1  tsp.  salt 

V2  c.  melted  butter  or  margarine 

Cream  Cheese  Filling: 

2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese, 
softened 

%  c.  sugar 

Glaze: 

2  c.  10x  sugar 
4  Tbsp.  milk 


2  pkg.  dry  yeast 
V2  c.  warm  water 
2  eggs,  beaten 
4  c.  all-purpose  flour 


1  egg,  beaten 
Ve  tsp.  salt 

2  tsp.  vanilla 


2  tsp.  vanilla 


Dough:  Heat  sour  cream  over  low  heat;  stir  in  sugar,  salt  and  but- 
ter. Cool  to  lukewarm.  Sprinkle  yeast  over  warm  water  in  large  bowl, 
stirring  until  yeast  dissolves.  Add  sour  cream  mixture,  eggs  and  flour; 
mix  well.  Cover  tightly;  refrigerate  overnight. 

Next  day,  divide  dough  into  four  parts;  roll  out  each  part  on  well 
floured  board  into  12  x  8-inch  rectangle.  Spread  on  V*  Cream  Cheese 
Filling;  roll  up,  jellyroll  fashion,  beginning  at  long  sides.  Pinch  edges 
together  and  fold  ends  under.  Place,  seam  side  down,  on  greased  cook- 
ie sheet.  Slit  each  roll  at  2-inch  intervals  about  2A  way  through  dough 
to  resemble  braids.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  double  (about  1  hour). 
Bake  at  375°  for  12  to  15  minutes.  Spread  with  glaze  while  warm. 
Yields  4  loaves  (12  inches  long). 

Cream  Cheese  Filling:  Combine  cream  cheese  and  sugar  in  mix- 
ing bowl.  Add  egg,  salt  and  vanilla;  mix  well. 

Glaze:  Combine  sugar,  milk  and  vanilla  until  smooth. 

Eloise  Gumm 


-  16 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

DRESDEN  CHRISTMAS  BREAD 

V*  c.  active  dry  yeast  1  c.  hazelnuts,  chopped 

1  c.  sugar  1  1/2  c.  raisins  and  candied  citrus 
Va  c.  milk  peel,  mixed 

8  c.  self-rising  flour  2  Tbsp.  vanilla  sugar 

2  c.  melted  butter  juice  of  Va  lemon 

1  c.  chopped  almonds  pinch  of  salt 

Decoration: 

2  Tbsp.  butter  confectioners  sugar 

Mix  the  yeast,  a  little  of  the  sugar  and  5  tablespoons  of  the  warm 
milk  in  a  jug.  Sift  flour  into  a  bowl  and  make  a  well  in  the  center. 
Pour  in  the  yeast  mixture  and  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  flour.  Let 
stand  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  as  well  as  the 
rest  of  the  milk.  Knead  into  a  smooth  dough.  Tear  the  dough  apart 
and  knead  it  again  for  a  few  minutes,  or  until  air  bubbles  appear. 
When  really  soft  and  pliable,  let  the  dough  stand  for  2  hours  in  a  warm 
place,  covered  with  a  tea  towel. 

Halve  the  dough  and  roll  out  each  piece  into  a  1  Vi-inch  thick 
oblong.  Fold  the  long  side  over  once.  Place  both  loaves  on  a  greased 
baking  tray  and  bake  for  60  minutes  in  a  medium  oven  (350°).  Remove 
from  oven  and,  while  still  warm,  brush  with  melted  butter  and  dust 
with  confectioners  sugar.  Guten  appetit! 

Maria  Weger  King 

EGG  IN  A  BUN  SANDWICHES 

1  egg  for  each  person  1  cheese  slice  for  each  person 

1  hamburger  bun  for  each  person  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Preheat  oven  to  325°.  Cut  center  out  of  each  bun  with  a  biscuit 
cutter,  being  careful  to  not  cut  through  bottom  of  bun.  Place  bun  on 
baking  sheet.  Break  egg  into  each  hole.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Bake  for  25  minutes.  Top  each  with  a  slice  of  cheese;  bake  5 
minutes  more. 

Gaye  Burton 


-  17 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

GRAPE-NUTS  BREAD 

1  c.  sour  milk  1  tsp.  baking  soda,  dissolved  in  a 
V2  c.  Grape-Nuts,  soaked  in  the  little  water 

milk  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  egg  1A  tsp.  salt  (pinch) 

Vfe  c.  sugar  2  c.  flour 

Mix  all  ingredients  together;  stir  well.  Bake  in  loaf  pan  at  350° 
for  30  to  40  minutes.  When  tester  comes  out  clean,  bread  is  done  and 
will  come  out  of  pan  freely. 

Ethel  Dill 

HILDA'S  EGG  BREAD 

(Spoonbread) 

3  c.  milk  (not  skim)  1  tsp.  sugar 

1  c.  corn  meal  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  Tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

3  eggs 

Scald  milk.  Add  corn  meal  and  simmer  about  3  minutes  (until 
mixture  thickens  slightly),  stirring  constantly.  Combine  the  next  5 
ingredients  with  hot  mixture.  Add  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Turn 
into  a  hot,  greased  casserole  and  bake  at  300°  for  approximately  45 
minutes,  until  brown  and  bread  leaves  the  sides  slightly. 

Caroline  Kennett 

JALAPENO  CORN  BREAD 

1  (8  Va  oz.)  can  cream-style  corn  V*  c.  chopped  jalapeno  pepper  or 
1  c.  yellow  corn  meal  1  (3  Vs  oz.)  can  hot  green  chili 

1  c.  (4  oz.  pkg.)  grated  sharp  peppers,  chopped 

Cheddar  cheese  1  tsp.  salt 

3A  c.  skim  milk  V*  tsp.  baking  soda 

3  eggs,  slightly  beaten  2  Tbsp.  margarine 

Combine  corn,  corn  meal,  half  the  Cheddar  cheese,  the  milk, 
eggs,  peppers,  salt  and  baking  soda  in  bowl;  mix  well.  Put  margarine 
in  1  J/2-quart  casserole  or  9-inch  cast-iron  skillet.  Place  in  preheated 
hot  oven  (400°)  until  margarine  is  hot,  but  not  brown.  Immediately 
pour  in  the  batter.  Sprinkle  top  with  remaining  cheese.  Bake  at  400° 
for  40  to  45  minutes.  If  after  about  35  minutes,  the  top  appears  too 
brown,  cover  with  aluminum  foil.  Serve  hot.   Serves  8. 

Mary  Walker 

-  18- 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

JIFFY  WHOLE  WHEAT  CRESCENT  ROLLS 

1  Vfe  c.  all-purpose  flour  2  Tbsp.  packed  brown  sugar 

1  Vs>  c.  whole  wheat  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

1  envelope  fast-rising  active  dry  2  Tbsp.  olive  oil 

yeast  1  c.  hot  water  (125°  to  130°) 

In  a  medium  size  bowl,  mix  1  cup  all-purpose  and  1  cup  whole 
wheat  flour,  the  yeast,  sugar  and  salt.  Stir  in  oil  and  water  until 
smooth.  Stir  in  enough  remaining  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Turn 
dough  out  on  lightly  floured  surface;  knead  5  to  8  minutes,  until 
smooth  and  elastic.  Put  in  a  greased  bowl;  turn  to  grease  top.  Cover; 
let  rise  in  warm,  draft-free  place  15  to  25  minutes,  until  doubled. 

Punch  down.  Roll  out  to  13-inch  circle.  Cut  in  12  equal  wedges. 
Starting  from  wide  end,  roll  each  wedge  down  to  point.  Place  3  inches 
apart  on  greased  baking  sheets.  Bend  to  form  crescents.  Cover;  let  rise 
in  warm,  draft-free  place  15  to  25  minutes,  until  doubled.  Bake  in  pre- 
heated 375°  oven  for  15  minutes  or  until  rolls  are  lightly  browned  and 
sound  hollow  when  tapped  lightly.  Remove  to  rack;  serve  warm  or  let 
cool  completely.  May  be  frozen  in  sealed  plastic  bag.  Yields  12. 

Mary  Walker 

LEMON  BREAD 

1  c.  butter  1  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  sugar  1  V*  c.  milk 

4  eggs,  separated  1  c.  finely  chopped  nuts 

3  Va  c.  flour  grated  lemon  peel  (2  lemons) 
2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Sauce: 
juice  of  2  lemons  V2  c.  sugar 

Cream  butter.  Add  sugar  and  egg  yolks;  beat.  Blend  dry  ingredi- 
ents; add,  a  little  at  a  time,  alternating  with  milk.  Blend  just  to  mix. 
Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Add  nuts  and  peel.  Pour  into  3 
greased  and  lightly  floured  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  350°  for  55  to  60  min- 
utes, until  dry  to  toothpick. 

Sauce:  Combine  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Prick  all  over  top  of 
loaves  with  toothpick.  Spoon  lemon  mixture  over  hot  bread.  Cool  1 
hour  before  removing  from  pan.   Do  not  cut  for  24  hours. 

Melba  M.  Tillett 


-19- 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 


MONKEY  BREAD 


Step  1: 


V2  c.  white  sugar  3  tubes  biscuits  (30) 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 

Step  2: 

%  c.  brown  sugar  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  stick  margarine 

Step  1:  Mix  sugar  and  cinnamon  in  plastic  bag.  Shake  each  bis- 
cuit in  mixture  until  well  coated.  Place  biscuits  in  a  13  x  9-inch 
baking  pan. 

Step  2:  Melt  margarine,  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon  together. 
Pour  mixture  over  biscuits.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  minutes.  Flip  onto  a 
cookie  sheet  with  sides  of  pan  larger  than  13  x  9-inch.  Let  cool,  then 
serve. 

Bill  and  Connee  Walsh 

OAKIE  CORN  BREAD 

1  box  corn  bread  mix  (14  to  16  1  V2  c.  Cheddar  cheese, 

oz.  size)  shredded 

1  egg,  beaten  1  pt.  sour  cream 

1  c.  milk  6  or  7  coarsely  chopped  green 
1  (15  oz.)  can  creamed  corn  onions  with  green  tops 

Mix  together  the  first  4  ingredients,  blending  until  smooth.  Pour 
into  greased  13  x  9-inch  pan.  Smooth  carefully  over  top  of  mixture 
a  layer  of  the  sour  cream,  thinned  with  1  tablespoon  milk.  On  top  of 
that,  sprinkle  the  chopped  onions,  then  top  with  the  shredded  cheese. 
Bake  at  350°  for  35  minutes  or  until  corn  bread  tests  done  with  a  tooth- 
pick. Let  it  cool  for  20  minutes  before  serving,  as  it  is  not  firm  enough 
from  the  oven.  May  be  made  ahead  and  served  warm  or  cold.  It 
freezes  well. 

Shirley  Britton 


-20- 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

POPPY  SEED  BREAD 

V2  tb.  butter  or  margarine  2  c.  sifted  flour 

3  tsp.  vanilla  1  %  oz.  poppy  seed  (not  quite  a 
1  V2  c.  sugar  whole  jar) 

4  egg  yolks  4  well  beaten  egg  whites 
V2  pt.  sour  cream  (1  c.) 

Mix  well  the  first  5  ingredients,  then  blend  in  the  next  3  ingredi- 
ents. Pour  into  2  ungreased  loaf  pans.  Bake  for  1  hour  at  350°. 

Margaret  Zimmerman 


OUR  FAVORITE  PUMPKIN  BREAD 

V3  c.  vegetable  shortening  V*  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  eggs  2  tsp.  pumpkin  pie  spice 

V2  c.  molasses  1  c.  coarsely  chopped  walnuts 

1  c.  mashed  pumpkin  walnut  halves  (for  garnishing) 

2  c.  all-purpose  flour 

Cream  shortening  and  stir  in  sugar  and  beaten  eggs.  Add  molas- 
ses and  pumpkin.  Stir  in  remaining  ingredients;  beat  until  well 
blended.  Pour  mixture  into  a  well-greased  9x  5  x  3-inch  loaf  pan.  Ar- 
range walnut  halves  on  top  of  loaf.  Bake  in  preheated  350°  oven  for 
1  hour  or  until  done  in  center.  (Tester  inserted  in  middle  should  come 
out  clean.)  Unmold  and  cool  thoroughly  on  a  rack. 

This  bread,  a  holiday  tradition  at  our  home,  is  a  special  treat  with 
a  cup  of  coffee  in  mid-afternoon. 

Barbara  Betts 


PUMPKIN  BREAD 

3  c.  sugar  1A  tsp.  cloves 
1  V*  tsp.  salt  V*  tsp.  ginger 

4  eggs  %  c.  water 

1  c.  oil  1  (16  oz.)  can  pumpkin 
4  tsp.  cinnamon                                      3  V2  c.  flour 

2  tsp.  nutmeg  2  Tbsp.  baking  soda 

Combine  all  dry  ingredients.  Gradually  mix  all  ingredients 
together.  Pour  into  four  1-pound  coffee  cans  (greased).  Fill  2A  full. 
Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour.  Freezes  well. 

Judy  Garner 


-21  - 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

PUMPKIN  BREAD 

3  ¥t  c.  sifted  all-purpose  flour  2h  c.  water 

3  c.  sugar  4  eggs 

2  tsp.  baking  soda  1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  (2  c.)  Reese's 

1  V2  tsp.  salt  peanut  butter  chips 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

2  c.  cooked  or  canned  pumpkin  1  c.  raisins  (optional) 
1  c.  vegetable  oil 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  pour  into  3  greased  and  floured 
8  Vi  x  4  Vi  x  2  V2-inch  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  350°  for  50  to  60  minutes.  Cool 
in  pans  for  10  minutes.  Makes  3  loaves. 

Barbara  Marquette 


QUICK  "N"  EASY  BISCUITS 

1  c.  self-rising  flour  2  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

Vi  c.  milk 

Mix  together  and  drop  by  tablespoonfuls  onto  greased  cookie 
sheet.  Bake  at  450°  for  10  minutes.  Yields  10  to  12  biscuits. 

Margaret  Yerby 


SALMON  CROGUE  MONSIEUR 

(A  Hot  Sandwich) 

1  (7  %  oz.)  can  salmon,  drained  8  slices  Swiss  cheese 
and  flaked  2  eggs 

2  Tbsp.  mayonnaise  2  Tbsp.  milk 

8  slices  thin  sandwich  bread  2  to  3  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 

Combine  salmon  with  mayonnaise.  Trim  crust  from  bread. 
Place  a  slice  of  cheese  on  each  of  4  slices  of  bread  (trim  to  fit,  if 
necessary),  lA  of  salmon  mixture  and  another  slice  of  cheese.  Top  with 
remaining  bread  slices. 

Beat  eggs  with  milk;  dip  each  sandwich  in  egg  mixture.  Melt  but- 
ter in  large  skillet  or  electric  frypan.  Saute  sandwiches  on  both  sides 
until  golden.  Serve  hot.  Makes  4  sandwiches. 

Serve  with  fresh  fruit  for  lunch  or  round  out  a  supper  menu  with 
mugs  of  hot  soup  and  a  tossed  salad. 

Caroline  Kennett 


-22- 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

SAVORY  BRUNCH  PULL-APART 

V4  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese  1  pkg.  frozen  unbaked  rolls 

3  Tbsp.  sesame  seed  Va  c.  margarine  or  butter,  melted 

Va  tsp.  dried  basil,  crushed  2  Tbsp.  real  bacon  bits  (optional) 

Thoroughly  grease  a  10-inch  fluted  tube  pan.  In  a  small  bowl, 
combine  Parmesan  cheese,  sesame  seed  and  basil.  Add  about  lA  of  the 
mixture  to  greased  pan;  lift  and  turn  pan  to  coat  the  sides  and  bottom. 
Place  10  of  the  frozen  rolls  in  the  pan;  drizzle  with  half  the  margarine 
or  butter.  Sprinkle  Vi  of  the  remaining  cheese  mixture  atop.  If  desired, 
sprinkle  with  bacon  bits.  Add  remaining  rolls.  Drizzle  with  remaining 
margarine  or  butter;  sprinkle  with  remaining  cheese  mixture.  Cover; 
let  rolls  thaw  and  rise  overnight  (12  to  24  hours)  in  refrigerator. 

The  next  day,  let  stand  at  room  temperature  for  30  minutes  (or 
until  fully  risen).  Bake,  uncovered,  in  a  350°  oven  for  15  minutes. 
Cover  with  foil  and  bake  15  minutes  more,  or  until  golden.  Remove 
bread  from  pan  onto  a  wire  rack.  Serve  warm.  Makes  12  servings. 

Rosalie  Bailey 


SPOON  BREAD 

1  c.  corn  meal  1  Tbsp.  sugar 

1  c.  water  6  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

1  c.  milk  2  c.  milk 

1  tsp.  salt  6  Tbsp.  butter 

1  Tbsp.  butter 

Cook  the  first  6  ingredients  together  for  5  minutes  over  medium 
heat,  stirring  constantly.  Let  mixture  cool,  then  add  eggs  and  milk. 
Blend  thoroughly  with  mixer.  Pour  mixture  in  baking  dish  in  which 
the  butter  has  been  melted.  Bake  in  a  preheated  oven  at  375°  until  it 
sets  like  custard,  about  45  minutes. 

Patsy  Bevan 


-23- 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

TEXAS  CORN  BREAD 

1  c.  yellow  corn  meal  1  c.  buttermilk 

Va  c.  flour  1/a  c.  milk 

1  tsp.  salt  1  egg 

1  Tbsp.  baking  powder  Va  c.  melted  shortening 

V2  tsp.  baking  soda 

Grease  iron  skillet  or  muffin  tins  and  heat.  Stir  together  thor- 
oughly; pour  into  hot  pan.  Bake  at  450°  for  25  minutes  or  until 
browned  and  done. 

Madeleine  Cox 


VEGETABLE  SANDWICHES 

1  c.  chopped  celery  1  envelope  plain  gelatin 

1  onion,  chopped  1  clove  garlic 

2  carrots,  chopped  1  tsp.  dill  weed 

V2  green  or  red  pepper,  chopped  1  family  size  loaf  Pepperidge 

1  tsp.  salt  Farm  white  sandwich  bread 

1  V2  c.  Hellmann's  mayonnaise 

Soak  gelatin  in  2  tablespoons  of  water  and  melt  in  microwave  20 
seconds.  Mix  with  mayonnaise,  salt  and  dill.  Mix  in  chopped  vegeta- 
bles. Chill. 

Spread  on  bread;  wrap  sandwiches  and  put  in  refrigerator  over- 
night. To  serve,  cut  crusts  off  and  cut  into  fourths. 

Barbara  Digges 


-24 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD 

4  c.  whole  wheat  flour  2  pkg.  dry  yeast 

1  qt.  milk  Vt  c.  brown  sugar 

Va  stick  margarine  Vs  c.  white  flour,  sifted 
1  tsp.  salt 

Scald  milk.  Add  salt  and  margarine.  Place  in  a  large  mixing 
bowl  to  cool.  Dissolve  yeast  in  Vi  cup  warm  water.  When  milk  mixture 
has  cooled,  stir  in  brown  sugar  and  yeast  mixture.  Stir  in  4  cups  of 
whole  wheat  flour.  Cover  bowl  and  allow  mixture  to  rise  until  "bub- 
bly." Mix  in  white  flour  until  dough  achieves  right  consistency.  Knead 
for  about  10  minutes.  Cover  and  allow  to  rise  until  about  double  in 
size.  (You  may  divide  the  dough  and  use  two  bowls  for  this  step,  if 
necessary.) 

Grease  four  bread  pans.  When  dough  has  risen,  punch  down  and 
knead  lightly.  Allow  the  dough  to  rest  about  15  minutes  before  form- 
ing loaves.  Place  loaves  in  pans;  cover  and  allow  to  rise.  Heat  oven 
to  325°.  When  loaves  have  fully  risen,  place  in  oven  and  bake  for  50 
to  60  minutes.  When  loaves  are  done,  remove  from  pan  and  allow  to 
cool.  Slice  one  loaf  and  eat  immediately.  It  will  never  be  better!  The 
bread  freezes  well. 

Recipe  from  Bill  Wilson. 

Martha  Jo  Wilson 

ZUCCHINI  CHOCOLATE  CHIP  BREAD 

3  eggs,  beaten  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  c.  Wesson  oil  3  c.  flour 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  2  c.  grated  zucchini 

1  tsp.  salt  Vs  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  tsp.  vanilla  1  c.  chocolate  chips 

Beat  the  eggs.  Add  the  sugar  and  oil;  blend  well.  Add  cinnamon, 
salt,  vanilla,  baking  soda  and  baking  powder;  mix  thoroughly.  Stir  in 
the  flour,  then  mix  in  the  grated  zucchini.  Blend  in  pecans  and  choco- 
late chips.  Pour  into  2  greased  and  floured  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  350° 
for  40  to  50  minutes.  Can  be  frozen,  thawed  and  served  later.  Makes 

2  loaves. 

Steve  and  Susan  Pearman 


-25  - 


BREADS  &  SANDWICHES 

-YOUR  FAVORITE  RECIPES- 
Recipe  Page  Number 


-26 


Qbetoetofo 


1115-96 


DESSERTS 


A  YUMMY  APPLE  DESSERT 

1  can  apple  pie  mix  1  (6-inch)  bag  coconut 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple  1  box  applesauce  cake  mix 

Mix  the  first  3  ingredients,  then  add  half  of  the  cake  mix.  Mix 
well.  Sprinkle  rest  of  cake  mix  on  top  after  putting  first  mix  into  a  9 
x  11  x  2-inch  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  minutes,  or  until  topping  is 
brown. 

Ethel  Dill 


ALMOND  CAKE  WITH  RASPBERRY  SAUCE 

%  c.  sugar  V*  tsp.  almond  extract 

V»  c.  butter,  softened  1A  c.  all-purpose  flour 

8  oz.  almond  paste  Vb  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  eggs  confectioners  sugar 

1  tsp.  Triple  Sec  sliced  almonds 

Sauce: 
1  pt.  fresh  raspberries  2  Tbsp.  sugar 

Combine  sugar,  butter  and  almond  paste  in  a  medium  mixing 
bowl;  blend  well.  Beat  in  eggs,  liqueur  and  almond  extract.  Add  flour 
and  baking  powder,  beating  until  just  mixed  thoroughly.  Pour  into 
buttered  and  floured  8-inch  round  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  about  40  to 
50  minutes.  Cool;  invert  onto  serving  dish.  Dust  with  confectioners 
sugar. 

Sauce:  Puree  raspberries  and  sugar  in  blender;  strain  to  remove 
seeds.  Serve  cake  on  a  bed  of  sauce;  sprinkle  top  with  sliced  almonds. 

Malinda  Connell 


-27 


DESSERTS 


ALMOND  CHOCOLATE  BARS 


1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese, 

softened 
%  c.  butter  or  margarine, 

softened 
%  c.  sugar 


2  c.  all-purpose  flour 

Va  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  semi-sweet  morsels 

Vz  c.  almonds,  sliced  and  toasted 


Combine  cream  cheese  and  butter  in  a  mixing  bowl;  beat  well. 
Gradually  add  sugar,  beating  until  light  and  fluffy.  Combine  flour 
and  baking  powder;  add  to  creamed  mixture,  beating  well.  Stir  in 
vanilla.  Spread  mixture  evenly  in  an  ungreased  13  x  9  x  2-inch  baking 
pan.  Bake  at  375°  for  15  minutes. 

Sprinkle  chocolate  morsels  immediately  over  baked  mixture;  let 
stand  5  minutes  or  until  chocolate  melts.  Spread  chocolate  evenly  to 
edges  of  pan.  Sprinkle  with  almonds.  Cool  and  cut  into  bars.  Yields 
about  2  Vi  dozen. 

Martha  Tankersley 

ALMOST  CHEESECAKE  PIE 


1  c.  sour  cream 
1  c.  milk 

1  prepared  graham  cracker  pie 
crust 


1  small  pkg.  instant  pudding 
(such  as  vanilla  or  French 
vanilla) 


Mix  sour  cream  and  milk  until  smooth.  Beat  in  instant  pudding. 
Pour  into  prepared  crust.  Chill  before  serving. 

Note:  You  can  line  crust  with  sliced  fruit,  then  decorate  the  top 
with  coconut  and  whipped  cream.  Different  flavors  of  pudding  may 
be  used  as  well. 

Paul  E.  Marquette 


-28- 


DESSERTS 

ANGEL  PIE 

3  egg  whites  1  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  c.  sugar  24  crushed  saltine  crackers 

1  stick  butter,  melted  1  Tbsp.  vanilla 

1  Tbsp.  baking  powder 

Frosting: 

1  (8  02.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  1  (13  oz.)  carton  Cool  Whip 

1  c.  sugar  1  large  can  blueberry  pie  filling 

Beat  egg  whites  stiff.  Add  sugar  and  beat  until  it  holds  a  peak. 
Add  vanilla  and  baking  powder.  Fold  in  nuts  and  saltines.  Put  in  bot- 
tom of  baking  dish  (13  x  11-inch),  which  has  been  sprayed  with  Pam. 
Pour  melted  butter  over  and  bake  for  25  minutes  at  325°.  Let  cool  at 
least  1  hour  before  frosting. 

Frosting:  Beat  all  ingredients  together  and  put  on  top  of  cooled 
crust.  Before  serving,  add  1  large  can  blueberry  pie  filling.  Store  in 
refrigerator. 

Martha  Midgett 

APRICOT  FOLDOVERS 

V*  c.  butter  or  margarine  1  Vz  c.  sifted  all-purpose  flour 

4  oz.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese,  2  Tbsp.  water 
grated  (1  c.)  1  jar  apricot  preserves 

Cream  butter  and  cheese  until  light.  Blend  sifted  flour  into 
creamed  mixture.  Add  water;  mix  well.  Chill  until  firm.  Divide 
chilled  dough  in  half.    Roll  each  half  to  10-inch  square;  cut  into 

2  Vi-inch  squares.  Place  1  teaspoon  of  preserves  in  each  square;  bring 
up  diagonal  corner  and  seal.  Bake  on  ungreased  cookie  sheets  at  375° 
for  8  to  10  minutes.  Makes  about  2  Vi  dozen  cookies. 

Billie  Page 


-29- 


DESSERTS 


BLONDE  BROWNIES 


2/b  c.  shortening 

1  lb.  light  brown  sugar 

2  eggs 

2  c.  flour 

Vz  tsp.  baking  soda 


1/z  tsp.  baking  powder 

pinch  of  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  chopped  nuts 


Melt  shortening;  remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  sugar.  Beat  in  eggs. 
Mix  flour,  soda,  baking  powder  and  salt  in  separate  bowl.  Mix  with 
egg  mixture.  Add  vanilla  and  nuts.  Spread  in  a  9x  13-inch  pan.  Bake 
for  30  minutes  at  350°.  Cut  immediately  into  squares. 

Joyce  Clarke 

BROWN  SUGAR  POUND  CAKE 


3  sticks  butter  or  margarine 

2  Va  c.  light  brown  sugar 
1/z  c.  white  sugar 

5  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

3  c.  all-purpose  flour 
1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 


1  c.  milk 

1  c.  pecans  or  walnuts  (walnuts 

are  best) 
1  Tbsp.  vanilla 
5  egg  whites,  well  beaten 


Cream  butter  or  margarine.  Add  sugars  and  cream  again.  Stir 
in  beaten  egg  yolks.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder.  Add  flour  mixture 
and  milk  alternately  to  creamed  mixture.  Add  nuts  and  vanilla.  Fold 
in  egg  whites.  Pour  into  well-greased  tube  pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  Vi 
hours. 

Diane  Cauthen 


-30- 


DESSERTS 

BROWNIE  BAKED  ALASKA 

1  box  Duncan  Hines  brownie  mix  Vz  c.  water 

2  eggs  Vz  gal.  coffee  ice  cream 
V*  c.  oil 

Meringue: 

5  egg  whites  2/s  c.  sugar 

Make  brownies,  using  directions  on  box  of  Duncan  Hines  brown- 
ie mix.  Allow  to  cool  and  do  not  cut.  Place  brownie  layer  on  wooden 
board.  Preheat  oven  to  450°. 

Meringue:  Beat  the  egg  whites  at  highest  speed  until  soft  peak 
forms.  Place  mounds  of  coffee  ice  cream  on  top  of  the  brownie  layer. 
Spread  meringue  completely  over  ice  cream,  covering  the  brownie  lay- 
er on  the  sides  so  that  ice  cream  is  sealed  (and  won't  melt  in  a  450° 
oven).  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  5  minutes,  until  meringue  is  lightly 
browned.  Remove  from  oven  and  serve  at  once.  Serves  8  to  10 
generously. 

Martha  Jo  Wilson 

BROWNIE  PIE 

1  stick  butter  2  eggs 

2  sq.  bitter  chocolate  %  c.  flour 

1  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Frosting: 

2  Tbsp.  butter  1  c.  confectioners  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  cocoa  milk  to  spread  (2  Tbsp.  to  start) 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate  in  saucepan.  Add  sugar  and  beat.  Add 
eggs  and  beat.  Fold  in  flour  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  greased  8  to 
9-inch  pie  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  15  to  20  minutes.  (Cook  until  finger 
leaves  a  print  on  top,  not  totally  done.)  Frost  while  warm. 

Frosting:  Melt  butter.  Add  cocoa  and  sugar.  Add  milk  until  of 
spreading  consistency. 

Peggy  Wilkinson 


111596 


-31  - 


DESSERTS 

BUTTERSCOTCH  CAKE 

1  c.  Wesson  oil  1  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  c.  sugar  1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  butterscotch  bits 

2  Va  c.  plain  flour  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

1  tsp.  baking  powder  3  c.  diced,  peeled  apples 
1  tsp.  baking  soda 

Mix  oil,  eggs  and  sugar.  Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  mixture. 
Stir  in  nuts  and  apples.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  13  x  9-inch  pan. 
Sprinkle  the  butterscotch  bits  on  top  and  bake  at  350°  for  55  to  60 
minutes. 

Billie  Page 

CAMPFIRE  OR  FIREPLACE  ECLAIRS 

1  can  refrigerator  biscuits  (cheap  1  pkg.  instant  vanilla  pudding 

ones  work  best)  (check  pkg.  for  ingredients 

1  can  chocolate  icing  needed  to  prepare  pudding)  or 

1  can  prepared  pudding 

You  will  need  one  Vi  to  ?4-inch  diameter  wooden  dowel,  about  36 
inches  long,  per  person.  You  will  need  pint-size  Ziploc  bag  and  5  x 
5-inch  piece  of  aluminum  foil. 

Wrap  aluminum  foil  around  dowel.  Flatten  one  biscuit  and  wrap 
around  the  stick,  over  the  aluminum  foil,  like  a  cocoon.  Make  sure  to 
cover  the  end  of  the  stick.  Pinch  closed  all  parts  of  the  biscuit;  one  end 
will  be  open.  Cook  over  charcoal,  campfire  or  in  a  fireplace  until  gold- 
en brown.  It  must  be  continually  turned  so  it  won't  burn.  Let  cool  for 
a  minute.  Remove  from  aluminum  foil  by  sliding  it  off  very  carefully. 

Put  pudding  in  a  Ziploc  bag  and  seal.  Cut  a  small  piece  off  of 
one  end  (bottom).  Squeeze  pudding  through  the  hole  and  into  the 
open  end  of  biscuit.  After  it  is  filled,  while  keeping  open  end  up, 
spread  chocolate  icing  on  top  of  the  biscuit.  Best  eaten  outside  or  over 
newspaper,  as  it  is  a  messy  treat! 

Rosalee  Jewell 


32- 


DESSERTS 

CARROT  CAKE  AND  FROSTING 

2  c.  flour  1  y2  c.  oil 

2  tsp.  cinnamon  3  c.  grated  carrots 

1  tsp.  salt  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

2  tsp.  baking  soda  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 
2  c.  sugar  with  juice 

4  eggs 

Frosting: 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  Va  c.  butter  or  margarine 

1  pkg.  powdered  sugar  2  tsp.  vanilla 

Cake:  Using  electric  mixer,  mix  eggs,  sugar  and  oil.  Add  dry 
ingredients;  mix  well.  Stir  in  carrots,  nuts  and  pineapple.  Bake  at  350° 
for  about  40  minutes  in  two  8-inch  round  pans  or  one  9  x  12-inch 
cake  pan. 

Frosting:  Allow  butter  and  cream  cheese  to  soften.  Place  all 
ingredients  in  bowl  and  mix  together  with  electric  mixer;  beat!  Frost 
cake  when  cooled. 

Ginger  Cox 

CHERRY  CRUMB  CAKE 

2  Vk  c.  flour  2  eggs,  beaten 
%  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

3/i  c.  butter  1  Tbsp.  baking  powder 

Va  c.  milk  2  c.  cherry  pie  filling 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Blend  flour,  sugar  and  butter  with  pastry 
blender  until  crumbly.  Reserve  Vi  cup  of  mixture  for  topping.  Add 
milk,  eggs,  vanilla  and  baking  powder  to  remaining  flour  mixture; 
beat  well. 

Spread  Vi  of  flour  mixture  into  a  lightly  greased  9-inch  square 
baking  dish.  Spoon  pie  filling  over  batter.  Spread  remaining  batter 
over  filling.  Sprinkle  with  reserved  topping.  Bake  for  40  to  45  minutes 
or  until  golden  brown.  Serve  warm.  Serves  8  to  10. 

Margaret  Zimmerman 


111596 


-33- 


DESSERTS 

CHERRY  DELIGHT  CAKE 

1  V*  c.  flour  1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

Vz  c.  brown  sugar  Vz  c.  white  sugar 

1  c.  butter  or  margarine  1  egg 

V*  c.  coconut  1  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  c.  chopped  nuts  (walnuts  1  can  cherry  pie  filling 
preferred) 

Mix  brown  sugar,  flour  and  margarine;  blend  to  fine  crumbs.  Add 
coconut  and  nuts;  mix  well.  Reserve  Vi  cup  of  this  mixture.  Press 
remainder  into  bottom  of  greased  13  x  9-inch  pan.  Bake  for  12  to  15 
minutes,  until  edges  are  brown. 

Beat  the  cream  cheese  until  fluffy.  Add  sugar,  egg  and  vanilla. 
Spread  over  hot  layer  and  bake  for  10  minutes.  Spread  pie  filling  over 
cheese  layer;  sprinkle  coarsely  chopped  nuts  and  the  Vi  cup  reserved 
mixture  over  the  pie  filling.  Bake  15  minutes  longer.  Makes  12 
(3-inch)  squares. 

Wanita  Kendrick 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL  BARS 

("Killer  Brownies") 

Part  1: 

1  German  chocolate  cake  mix  Vb  c.  evaporated  milk 

>i  c.  margarine,  melted  1  c.  chopped  nuts  (optional) 

Part  2: 

1  (14  oz.)  bag  caramels  Vb  c.  evaporated  milk 

1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips 

Part  1:  Mix  cake  mix,  margarine,  evaporated  milk  and  nuts, 
omitting  any  regular  ingredients  called  for  in  the  cake  mix.  Batter  will 
be  very  thick.  Press  half  of  the  batter  into  a  greased  9  x  13-inch  pan. 
Bake  at  350°  for  8  minutes. 

Part  2:  Melt  caramels  with  evaporated  milk  in  top  of  a  double 
boiler.  Spread  chocolate  chips  over  the  baked  portion.  Pour  melted 
caramel  mixture  over  chips,  then  crumble  remaining  cake  batter  over 
caramel  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  16  to  18  minutes.  Cool  completely; 
cut  into  bars. 

Leigh  Ann  Wilson 


-34- 


DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

2  c.  flour  Vi  c.  buttermilk 

2  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  sticks  margarine  1  tsp.  vanilla 

4  Tbsp.  cocoa  2  eggs,  beaten 
1  c.  water 

Icing: 

1  stick  margarine  1  (16  oz.)  box  confectioners 

4  Tbsp.  cocoa  sugar 

4  Tbsp.  milk  pecans  or  coconut  (if  desired) 

In  a  large  bowl,  mix  flour  and  sugar;  set  aside.  In  a  saucepan, 
mix  the  next  3  ingredients.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  over  flour  and  sugar 
mixture  and  beat  together.  Add  buttermilk,  baking  soda  and  vanilla; 
mix  together  thoroughly.  Add  beaten  eggs  to  mixture  and  mix.  Pour 
into  a  greased  9  x  13-inch  Pyrex  pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  30  to  35 
minutes. 

Icing:  In  a  saucepan,  mix  margarine,  cocoa,  milk  and  confection- 
ers sugar;  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  pecans  or  coconut,  if  desired.  Pour 
over  cake. 

Leigh  Ann  Wilson 


-35- 


DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE  CHERRY  BARS 

Cake: 

1  pkg.  fudge  cake  mix  1  tsp.  almond  extract 

1  (21  oz.)  can  cherry  pie  filling  2  eggs,  beaten 

Frosting: 

1  c.  sugar  6  oz.  semi-sweet  chocolate 

5  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  pieces 

Va  c.  milk 

Cake:  Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Using  Baker's  Joy  or  solid  shorten- 
ing (not  oil),  grease  and  flour  a  15  x  10-inch  jelly  roll  pan  or  a  13  x 
9-inch  pan.  Combine  the  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl.  By  hand,  stir 
until  well  mixed.  Pour  into  prepared  pan.  If  using  jelly  roll  pan,  bake 
for  20  to  30  minutes;  25  to  30  minutes  for  the  13  x  9-inch  pan,  or  until 
toothpick  comes  out  clean.  While  the  cake  is  cooking,  prepare  the 
frosting. 

Frosting:  In  a  small  saucepan,  combine  sugar,  butter  and  milk. 
Boil  1  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  heat;  stir  in  chocolate 
pieces  until  smooth.  Pour  over  partially  cooled  cake.  Cut  into  bars 
or  squares.  Makes  about  3  dozen. 

Note:  This  is  a  moist  cake.  Covered,  it  keeps  well  in  a  cool  place. 

Mary  Walker 

CHOCOLATE  CHIP  CAKE 

1  box  yellow  cake  mix  1  c.  milk 

1  (3.4  oz.)  pkg.  instant  vanilla  1  bar  sweet  German  chocolate, 

pudding  grated 

1  c.  oil  1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips 
4  eggs 

Mix  the  first  6  ingredients  well.  Stir  in  chocolate  chips.  Pour  into 
greased  and  floured  Bundt  or  tube  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  50  to  55 
minutes. 

Babs  Owens 


-36 


DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE  CHIP  DATE  CAKE 

1  c.  chopped  dates  y2  c.  plus  3  Tbsp.  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  soda  y4  tsp.  salt 

1  1/2  c.  boiling  water  a/4  tsp.  baking  soda 

1/2  c.  butter  1  pkg.  chocolate  chips 

1  c.  sugar  y2  c.  sugar 

2  eggs,  beaten  y2  c.  pecans,  chopped 

Heat  oven  to  350°.  Pour  boiling  water  over  dates.  Add  1  tea- 
spoon baking  soda  and  let  cool.  Cream  the  butter,  1  cup  sugar  and 
eggs  in  a  large  bowl.  Add  the  date  mixture  to  the  butter  mixture.  Sift 
the  flour,  salt  and  3A  teaspoon  baking  soda  together  in  a  bowl.  Com- 
bine the  flour  mixture  with  the  previous  mixture.  Pour  into  a  greased 
13  x  9  x  2-inch  pan. 

Mix  chocolate  chips,  Vi  cup  sugar  and  nuts  together.  Sprinkle 
over  top  of  batter.  Bake  at  350°  for  35  to  40  minutes. 

Carrie  Knoche 


CHOCOLATE  MINT  BARS 

2  sq.  unsweetened  chocolate  1A  tsp.  peppermint  extract 

1/2  c.  margarine  1/2  c.  flour 

2  eggs  pinch  of  salt 

1  c.  sugar 

Frosting: 

2  Tbsp.  margarine  3/e  tsp.  peppermint  extract 
1  Tbsp.  milk  1  c.  confectioners  sugar 

For  Dribbling: 
1  sq.  unsweetened  chocolate  1  Tbsp.  margarine 

Melt  chocolate  squares  with  margarine;  set  aside.  Beat  eggs  until 
frothy.  Add  sugar  and  peppermint  extract.  Beat  in  chocolate  mixture; 
add  flour  and  salt.  Pour  into  a  greased  9  x  9-inch  pan;  bake  at  375° 
for  25  minutes.  Cool  in  pan. 

Frosting:  Mix  all  4  ingredients  thoroughly;  spread  on 
cooled  cake. 

For  Dribbling:  Melt  chocolate  and  margarine;  stir  to  mix.  Dribble 
over  frosting.  Cut  into  squares  when  ready  to  serve.  Freezes  well. 

Jean  Dyer 


111596 


-37- 


DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE  PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

(My  family  called  them  Preacher  Cookies.) 

4  c.  sugar  5  V2  c.  oatmeal 

1  c.  milk  1  c.  peanut  butter 

V*  c.  cocoa  2  tsp.  vanilla 
72  c.  butter 

Mix  the  first  4  ingredients  together  and  boil  for  1  Vi  minutes.  Re- 
move from  heat  and  add  oatmeal,  peanut  butter  and  vanilla;  stir. 
Drop  by  teaspoon  onto  wax  paper.  May  be  frozen. 

Jane  Jones 

CHOCOLATE-PEANUT  BUTTER  SQUARES 

(Microwave  -  Quick  Fix) 

1  c.  chunky  peanut  butter  1  (10  Vi  oz.)  bag  miniature 

6  oz.  chocolate  chips  marshmallows 

Vi  c.  margarine,  cut  in  chunks  2  c.  Rice  Krispies  cereal 

Use  an  8-inch  square  pan  for  thicker  serving,  8  x  12-inch  for 
snacking  size.  Coat  pan  with  Pam;  set  aside. 

Using  a  3-quart  bowl  with  lid,  put  in  peanut  butter,  chocolate 
chips  and  margarine.  Microwave  2  Vi  minutes.  Margarine  is  melted; 
chips  will  blend  when  stirred.  After  stirring,  add  marshmallows;  stir. 
Microwave  60  seconds.  If  not  melted  enough  to  be  fairly  smooth,  zap 
it  a  few  more  seconds.  Remove  from  microwave;  stir,  then  add  Rice 
Krispies.  Scrape  into  dish;  refrigerate  until  firm.  After  several  hours, 
cut  and  serve. 

B.  J.  Buchert 

CHOCOLATE  POUND  CAKE 

1  box  chocolate  cake  mix  with  %  c.  water 

pudding  in  mix  4  eggs 

1  small  box  instant  chocolate  1  (8  oz.)  carton  sour  cream 

pudding  1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips 
%  c.  oil 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  pour  into  a  sprayed  Bundt 
pan.  Bake  in  preheated  350°  oven  for  1  hour.  Cool  in  pan  10  minutes. 
Remove  from  pan  and  cool  completely  on  wire  rack.  May  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  if  desired. 

Jessie  Blalock 

-38- 


DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE  STRATA  PIE 

2  (9-inch)  baked  pie  shells  1  (12  oz.)  bag  semi-sweet 

4  eggs,  separated  chocolate  bits 

1  1/2  c.  sugar  Vz  tsp.  cinnamon 

1/2  c.  water  2  c.  cream,  whipped 

Beat  egg  whites.  Gradually  add  1  cup  sugar.  Pour  into  cooled 
shells.  Bake  at  225°  for  30  minutes  and  cool. 

Melt  slowly  the  chocolate  bits  with  egg  yolks  and  Vi  cup  water; 
spread  Vi  over  the  meringue.  Fold  the  cinnamon  and  Vi  cup  sugar  into 
the  whipped  cream.  Add  the  rest  of  the  chocolate.  Top  each  pie  with 
the  whipped  cream.  Chill  for  4  hours. 

You  may  cover  with  foil  and  freeze.  Remove  foil  as  you  take 
from  freezer. 

Lucy  Spradlin 


CLASSIC  SOUR  CREAM  CHEESECAKE 

1  Vi  c.  shortbread  cookie  crumbs  4  eggs 

2  Tbsp.  margarine  or  butter  1  (8  oz.)  container  sour  cream 

3  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese,  1  Tbsp.  vanilla  extract 
softened  1  (21  oz.)  can  Comstock  brand 

1  (14  oz.)  can  Eagle  Brand  cherry  or  blueberry  filling, 

sweetened  condensed  milk  chilled 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Combine  crumbs  and  butter;  press  on  bot- 
tom of  a  9-inch  spring-form  pan.  In  a  large  mixer  bowl,  beat  the  cream 
cheese  until  fluffy.  Slowly  beat  in  the  milk  until  smooth.  Beat  in  eggs, 
then  sour  cream  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  prepared  pan.  Bake  for  50  to 
55  minutes,  or  until  lightly  browned  around  edges.  Cool;  chill.  Top 
with  cold  fruit  filling  and  garnish  as  desired.  Refrigerate  leftovers. 
Makes  one  9-inch  cheesecake. 

Virginia  Palmer 


111596 


-39- 


DESSERTS 

CLOUD  NINE  CAKE 

1  box  yellow  cake  mix  2  (1.4  oz.  each)  envelopes 

1  c.  flaked  coconut,  divided  whipped  topping 

1  (13  oz.)  can  pina  colada  mix 

Mix  cake  according  to  directions.  Add  lA  cup  of  coconut  to  bat- 
ter. Bake  according  to  directions  in  a  9  x  13-inch  pan.  When  cake  is 
done  and  still  hot,  prick  the  entire  top  of  the  cake  with  a  fork.  Spoon 
pina  colada  mix  over  cake. 

Prepare  topping  according  to  directions.  Frost  cooled  cake  with 
whipped  topping.  Sprinkle  remaining  Vi  cup  coconut  over  frosting. 
Store  in  refrigerator. 

Martha  Martin 


COCONUT  MACAROONS 

10  oz.  flaked  coconut  dash  of  salt 

1  (14  oz.)  can  sweetened  Vfe  tsp.  vanilla 

condensed  milk  V2  tsp.  almond  extract 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Grease  2  large  cookie  sheets.  Mix  all  ingre- 
dients in  medium  bowl  until  well  blended.  Drop  by  rounded  teaspoon- 
fuls  onto  cookie  sheet.  Bake  for  12  to  15  minutes  or  until  golden 
around  edges.  Remove  immediately  and  cool  on  wire  rack.  Makes  3 
dozen. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 


-40- 


DESSERTS 

COCONUT  "NOT"  COOKIES 

1  Vs  c.  Bisquick  1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  instant  potato  flakes  1  egg 

1  stick  oleo  2  tsp.  coconut  flavoring 

Cream  oleo  and  sugar.  Add  egg  and  flavoring.  Combine 
Bisquick  and  potato  flakes;  add  to  mixture.  Drop  onto  ungreased 
cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350°  (375°  if  aluminum  sheet  is  used)  for  8  to 
10  minutes. 

Variation: 

2  eggs  1  c.  nuts 
%  c.  coconut 

Add  eggs,  coconut  and  nuts. 

Pat  Gore 

COCONUT  PECAN  SQUARES 

V2  c.  butter,  softened  Va  c.  shredded  coconut,  tossed 
Va  c.  dark  brown  sugar  with  2  Tbsp.  flour 

1  c.  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  eggs,  beaten  until  frothy  pinch  of  salt 

1  c.  light  brown  sugar  10x  confectioners  sugar 

1  c.  pecans,  coarsely  chopped 

Cream  the  first  3  ingredients.  Press  evenly  into  9  x  9  x  2-inch 
pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes.  Gradually  add  light  brown  sugar 
to  frothy  eggs;  beat  until  thick.  Add  pecans  and  flour-tossed  coconut; 
mix.  Add  vanilla  and  salt;  mix.  Spread  over  baked  crust  and  bake  at 
350°  for  20  minutes.  When  cooled,  sprinkle  with  lOx  confectioners 
sugar. 

Diane  Cauthen 


-41  - 


DESSERTS 

COCONUT  PIE 

(No  Crust) 

4  eggs,  well  beaten  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
Va  c.  self-rising  flour                              2  c.  milk 

1  %  c.  sugar  1  (7  oz.)  pan  coconut 

V2  stick  butter  or  margarine, 
melted 

Combine  all  ingredients;  mix  well.  Pour  into  two  9-inch  pie  pans 
or  one  12-cup  muffin  tin.  Bake  at  325°  for  30  minutes  or  until  brown. 
This  pie  makes  its  own  crust. 

Margaret  Dugger 

COCONUT  POUND  CAKE 

1/2  lb.  butter  or  margarine  1  c.  milk 

3  c.  sugar  1  c.  flaked  coconut 

5  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla  or  almond  extract 
3  c.  all-purpose  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
and  beat  after  each  addition.  Add  the  flour  and  milk  alternately.  Mix 
well.  Stir  in  coconut  and  extract;  mix  until  blended.  Pour  into  greased 
and  floured  tube  pan.  Bake  at  325°  in  preheated  oven  for  75  to  90 
minutes. 

Rosalie  Bailey 


42- 


DESSERTS 


COOKIE  DOUGH  BROWNIES 


2  c.  sugar 

1  V*  c.  all-purpose  flour 
V*  c.  baking  cocoa 
V*  tsp.  salt 

Filling: 

V2  c.  butter  or  margarine, 

softened 
V2  c.  packed  brown  sugar 
V*  c.  sugar 

Glaze: 

1  c.  (6  oz.)  semi-sweet  chocolate 
chips 


1  c.  vegetable  oil 
4  eggs 

2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

V*  c.  chopped  walnuts  (optional) 


2  Tbsp.  milk 

1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

1  c.  all-purpose  flour 


1  Tbsp.  shortening 
%  c.  chopped  walnuts 


In  a  mixing  bowl,  combine  sugar,  flour,  cocoa  and  salt.  Add  oil, 
eggs  and  vanilla;  beat  at  medium  speed  for  3  minutes.  Stir  in  walnuts, 
if  desired.  Pour  into  a  greased  13  x  9  x  2-inch  baking  pan.  Bake  at 
350°  for  30  minutes  or  until  brownies  test  done.  Cool  completely. 

Filling:  Cream  butter  and  sugars  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Add  milk  and 
vanilla;  mix  well.  Beat  in  flour.  Spread  over  the  brownies;  chill 
until  firm. 

Glaze:  Melt  chocolate  chips  and  shortening  in  a  saucepan,  stir- 
ring until  smooth.  Spread  over  filling.  Immediately  sprinkle  with 
nuts,  pressing  down  slightly.  Yields  3  dozen. 

I  set  the  dish  in  refrigerator  to  firm  up  before  cutting. 

Wanita  Kendrick 


111596 


-43- 


DESSERTS 


THE  COUSINS  CAKE 


1  yellow  cake  mix 

1  small  instant  vanilla  pudding 

3  eggs 

V*  c.  water 

1/2  c.  shortening 

Icing: 

8  oz.  cream  cheese 

1  lb.  confectioners  sugar  (1  Ox) 


1  (4  oz.)  bar  sweet  chocolate, 

grated 
1  c.  sour  cream 
1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips 
1  c.  chopped  pecans 


1/2  c.  oleomargarine 
1  tsp.  vanilla 


Mix  cake  mix,  pudding  mix,  eggs,  water,  shortening  and  grated 
chocolate.  Add  sour  cream,  chips  and  pecans.  Bake  at  350°  in  a 
greased  and  floured  Bundt  pan  until  cake  tests  done.  Remove  from 
pan  and  cool. 

Icing:  Blend  all  ingredients;  spread  on  cake. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 


-44 


DESSERTS 

CRANBERRY,  CHOCOLATE  CHIP,  DATE  NUT 

CAKE 

1  c.  fresh  or  frozen  cranberries  2  Va  c.  flour 

1  c.  semi-sweet  chocolate  chips  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  c.  chopped  nuts  1  tsp.  soda 

1  c.  chopped  dates  Va  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  1  c.  sugar 

%  c.  vegetable  oil  1  c.  buttermilk 

Glaze: 

1  tsp.  grated  orange  rind  additional  orange  juice  (if 

2  Tbsp.  orange  juice  needed) 
Va  (16  oz.)  box  confectioners 

sugar 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  dredge  fruit  and  nuts  in  mixture.  Set  aside 
for  later  use.  Beat  1  cup  sugar  and  the  eggs  together.  Add  vegetable 
oil  and  buttermilk;  beat.  Add  dry  ingredients,  fruit  and  chocolate 
chips;  mix  well.  Pour  into  a  well-greased  and  floured  Bundt  pan. 
Bake  for  60  minutes  at  325°.  Cool  in  pan  for  15  minutes  prior  to  plac- 
ing on  cake  plate.  Apply  glaze  while  cake  is  still  warm. 

Glaze:  Mix  together  orange  rind,  orange  juice  and  confectioners 
sugar. 

Note:  I  use  Vi  package  of  cranberries  while  fresh  and  freeze 
remainder  for  a  later  time  when  cranberries  are  not  available. 

Ola  Dyer 


CRANBERRY  PIE 

1  pastry  for  a  double  crust  pie  5  c.  fresh  cranberries,  halved  or 

2  Va  c.  sugar  coarsely  chopped 

Va  c.  all-purpose  flour  Va  c.  butter  or  margarine 

2  c.  water  2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

Line  a  9-inch  pie  pan  with  pastry.  Combine  sugar  and  flour  in 
medium  saucepan,  mixing  well.  Add  water  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce 
heat;  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  thickened.  Stir  in  cranberries, 
butter  and  vanilla,  mixing  well.  Spoon  mixture  evenly  into  pastry 
shell.  Roll  remaining  pastry  to  Vs-inch  thickness.  Cut  into  %-inch 
strips.  Arrange  in  lattice  design  over  filling.  Seal  and  flute  the  edges. 
Bake  at  350°  for  35  minutes  or  until  browned. 

June  Gore 


45- 


DESSERTS 


CRUNCH  CAKE 


2  c.  cake  flour  6  whole  eggs 

2  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  lemon  extract 

V2  c.  Crisco  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

Va  c.  real  butter  1  tsp.  rum  extract 

Combine  all  the  ingredients  in  a  large  mixing  bowl.  No  need  to 
cream  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs.  Mix  for  12  minutes  on  medium 
speed.  Pour  into  tube  pan  or  Bundt  pan  that  has  been  well-greased. 
Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour  or  until  top  is  golden  brown  and  crunchy  look- 
ing. Cool  for  10  minutes  and  remove  from  pan.  This  cake  freezes  well. 

This  recipe  originated  in  my  grandmother's  Methodist  Church 
in  Pensacola,  Florida.  It  has  been  taken  to  many  covered  dish  suppers. 

Katie  Gillespie 

DESSERT  PIZZA 

2  rolls  chocolate  chip  cookie  dough 
Topping: 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese,  Va  tsp.  flavoring  (almond  or 

softened  vanilla) 

1A  c.  sour  cream  fruit* 

4  oz.  whipped  topping  (more  if 

needed  to  soften  mixture) 

*Use  what  you  like:  bananas,  grapes,  mandarin  oranges,  pineap- 
ple tidbits  or  chunks,  strawberries,  blueberries,  kiwi,  etc.  Drain  any 
canned  fruit. 

For  a  medium  to  small  pizza  pan,  use  only  1  roll  cookie  dough. 
For  a  large  size  pizza  pan,  use  both  rolls.  Spread  over  pan  fairly  thin. 
Bake  at  350°  until  lightly  browned. 

Topping:  Beat  together  the  cream  cheese  and  sour  cream.  Fold 
in  whipped  topping  and  flavoring.  When  baked  crust  is  cool,  spread 
mixture  over  it,  then  garnish  with  prepared  fruit,  placing  in  circle 
around  the  pizza.  Refrigerate  until  serving  time. 

For  a  lower  calorie  dessert,  use  low-fat  cream  cheese,  sour  cream, 
whipped  topping  and  cookie  dough. 

B.  J.  Buchert 


-46- 


DESSERTS 


EASY  FUDGE 


2  sticks  butter  or  margarine 

1  (12  oz.)  can  evaporated  milk 
4  1/z  c.  sugar 

2  c.  mini  marshmallows 


18  oz.  chocolate  chips 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  pecans,  chopped 


In  a  large  bowl,  combine  the  marshmallows  and  chocolate  chips. 
Combine  butter,  milk  and  sugar  in  a  pan.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  boil  for  exactly  11  minutes.  Pour  hot  mixture  into  the 
bowl  of  mixed  marshmallows  and  chips;  stir  and  mix.  Add  vanilla  and 
pecans.  Keep  mixing  until  it  turns  glossy.  Don't  pour  too  soon! 

When  glossy  and  thick,  pour  into  greased  9  x  13-inch  pan.  When 
cool,  cut  into  small  squares. 

Annette  Chase 
EGGNOG  BAVARIAN  PARFAIT 


1  qt.  commercial  eggnog 
1  (13  Vi  oz.)  container  frozen 
whipped  topping,  thawed 


1  (4  oz.)  jar  red  maraschino 
cherries,  drained  and  chopped 

1  (4  oz.)  jar  green  maraschino 
cherries,  drained  and  chopped 


Pour  eggnog  into  a  large  bowl.  Fold  in  whipped  topping.  Pour 
into  parfait  glasses.  Spoon  cherries  into  each  and  freeze.  Let  stand 
at  room  temperature  for  20  to  30  minutes  before  serving.  Yields  10  to 
12  servings. 

Gaye  Burton 


-47- 


DESSERTS 

EGGNOG  DESSERT 

Crust: 

1  Vz  c.  flour  %  c.  nuts,  chopped 

%  c.  margarine,  softened 

Filling: 

1  qt.  eggnog  (may  use  canned)  2  Tbsp.  rum  extract 

3  envelopes  Knox  gelatine  12  oz.  Cool  Whip,  halved  (in  a 

2  egg  whites  large  bowl) 
V*  c.  sugar 

Crust:  Mix  flour  and  margarine  well,  then  add  nuts.  Pat  crust 
into  a  13  x  9-inch  pan  and  bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes.  Cool 
completely. 

Filling:  In  a  large  bowl,  soften  gelatine  in  Vi  cup  of  eggnog.  Bring 
rest  of  eggnog  just  to  boiling  and  stir  into  gelatine  mixture  to  dissolve. 
Chill  until  partially  thickened.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  then  beat  in 
sugar  gradually  until  of  meringue  consistency.  Add  rum  extract  to 
thickened  eggnog,  then  fold  in  egg  whites  and  half  of  Cool  Whip.  Chill 
until  firm,  then  frost  with  remaining  Cool  Whip.  Cut  into  squares  and 
enjoy. 

Shirley  Britton 

EMMIE  SCHMITS 

2  eggs  V*  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  c.  brown  sugar,  firmly  packed  Vb  tsp.  salt 

Vz  c.  flour  1  c.  chopped  pecans 

Beat  eggs  with  whisk.  Add  dry  ingredients;  beat  well.  Bake  at 
350°  in  well-greased  cupcake  pans.  (Do  not  use  paper  cupcake  liners, 
as  batter  will  stick.) 

Beryl  Bates 


-48- 


DESSERTS 

FOOL'S  TOFFEE 

1  c.  butter  1  (12  oz.)  bag  chocolate  chips 

1  c.  dark  brown  sugar  1/z  c.  chopped  nuts 
saltine  crackers 

Place  crackers  close  together  on  foil-lined  cookie  sheet.  Melt  but- 
ter in  pan.  Blend  sugar  and  butter  together;  boil  and  stir  for  4  minutes. 
Pour  over  crackers  and  spread  evenly  with  spatula.  Bake  at  375°  for 
50  minutes.  Quickly  sprinkle  chocolate  chips  on  top  and  spread  even- 
ly. Sprinkle  with  nuts.  Allow  to  cool.  Break  into  pieces. 

Charlotte  Brandt 

FORGET-ME-NOT  COOKIES 

2  egg  whites  Vi  c.  M&M's  plain  candies 
2/3  c.  sugar  1  c.  Rice  Krispies 

V*  c.  chocolate  chips 

Turn  on  oven  to  300°.  Beat  2  egg  whites  until  fluffy  and  they 
form  peaks.  Slowly  add  the  sugar.  Fold  in  chocolate  chips,  M&M's 
and  Rice  Krispies.  Drop  by  teaspoonful  onto  buttered  cookie  sheets. 
Put  in  oven;  turn  off  heat.  Leave  cookies  in  oven  for  2  hours.  Cool 
on  wire  racks.  Guten  appetit! 

Afar/a  W.  King 


-49- 


DESSERTS 

FOUR  LAYER  DESSERT 

First  Layer  (Crust): 

Va  c.  margarine  V2  c.  pecans,  chopped 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  1  c.  flour 

Combine  as  you  would  pie  crust.  Press  pie  crust  mixture  into 
bottom  of  8  x  13-inch  Pyrex  pan  and  bake  at  350°  for  about  15  to  20 
minutes.  Cool. 

Second  Layer: 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  1  c.  powdered  sugar 

Beat  together.  Spread  the  cream  cheese  mixture  over  the  cooled 
crust.  Chill. 

Third  Layer: 

3  c.  milk  2  small  pkg.  instant  pudding  mix 

(lemon,  coconut  cream, 
banana,  chocolate,  etc.) 

Beat  together.  Pour  the  pudding  mixture  over  the  cream  cheese 
layer.  Chill. 

Fourth  Layer: 
Cool  Whip  chopped  pecans 

Top  with  Cool  Whip;  sprinkle  chopped  pecans  on  top.  Chill  sev- 
eral hours.  Serves  15. 

Elva  Ferguson 


-50 


DESSERTS 

FRANKS  TURTLE  BROWNIES 

1  (14  oz.)  pkg.  caramels  %  c.  softened  margarine 

2/3  c.  evaporated  milk  1  c.  nuts  (walnuts  and/or  pecans) 

1  (18 1/2  oz.)  box  German  12  oz.  semi-sweet  chocolate 
chocolate  cake  mix  pieces 

Combine  caramels  and  Vi  cup  evaporated  milk  in  top  of  double 
boiler.  Stir  mixture  until  melted. 

Combine  cake  mix,  remaining  milk  and  softened  margarine. 
Blend  until  mixture  holds  together.  Stir  in  nuts.  Press  one  half  of  cake 
mixture  in  a  greased  13  x  9-inch  pan  and  bake  for  6  minutes  at  350°. 

Remove  from  oven  and  sprinkle  chocolate  pieces  on  top.  Pour 
melted  caramel  evenly  over  top.  Crumble  remaining  mix  over  caramel 
and  bake  at  350°  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Cool  slightly  and  cut  into  bars. 
Serve. 

Frank  Griffin 

FROZEN  CUSTARD 

4  c.  milk,  scalded  in  a  double  4  eggs,  beaten 

boiler  V*  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  sugar  1  Tbsp.  vanilla 

Pour  hot  milk  on  beaten  eggs;  add  sugar  and  salt.  Return  to  the 
double  boiler  and  cook  until  mixture  coats  the  spoon.  Cool,  flavor  and 
freeze.  Stir  at  least  3  times  while  freezing. 

Faye  Briggs 


111596 


-51  - 


DESSERTS 

FROZEN  STRAWBERRY  SQUARES 

Crust: 

1  c.  flour  1/2  c.  butter 

V2  c.  brown  sugar  1  c.  whipped  cream  or  1  small 

V2  c.  nuts  carton  whipped  topping 

Filling: 

2  egg  whites  1  pkg.  frozen  strawberries  or  2  c. 
%  c.  sugar  fresh  strawberries 

2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Crust:  Mix  ingredients.  Bake  in  a  13  x  9-inch  pan  at  350°  for  20 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Cool  and  reserve  Vi  of  the  mixture, 
spreading  remaining  crumbs  evenly  over  bottom  of  pan. 

Filling:  Combine  egg  whites,  sugar,  berries  and  lemon  juice  in 
large  mixer  bowl;  beat  until  blended.  Then,  turning  on  high,  beat  10 
to  12  minutes  or  until  stiff  peaks  form.  Fold  in  whipped  cream  or  top- 
ping. Pour  over  crumb  crust  and  sprinkle  remaining  crumbs  on  top. 
Freeze;  cut  into  squares.  Serves  12. 

Beth  Clarke 

FRUIT  COCKTAIL  CAKE 

1  (16  oz.)  can  fruit  cocktail  1  c.  sugar 

1  V2  c.  flour  1  egg 

1  tsp.  baking  soda  1  c.  brown  sugar 

1  tsp.  salt  V*  c.  nuts  (pecans) 

Sauce  for  Top: 

V2  c.  evaporated  milk  %  c.  white  sugar 

V3  c.  butter  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Place  the  first  4  ingredients  in  a  bowl  and  stir  together.  Add  the 
sugar  and  egg;  mix  together  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Pour  in  a  greased 
cake  pan.  Sprinkle  the  top  of  cake  with  1  cup  brown  sugar  and  V2  cup 
nuts.  Bake  at  350°  for  40  to  45  minutes. 

Sauce:  Mix  milk,  butter  and  sugar  in  a  pan  and  bring  to  a  boil. 
Add  the  vanilla  and  stir.  Serve  the  sauce  with  the  cake. 

Priscilla  D.  Stephens 


-52- 


DESSERTS 

FRUIT  TORTE 

1  stick  butter  (room  temperature)  1  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  sugar  fresh  fruit  of  your  choice 

2  eggs  lemon  juice 
1  c.  flour  sugar 

1  tsp.  baking  powder  cinnamon 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  in  eggs,  flour,  baking  powder  and 
salt.  Spread  in  greased  8-inch  spring-form  pan.  Cover  with  fruit. 
Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  350°  oven 
for  1  hour. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 

FUDGE  BROWNIES 

Va  c.  butter  2  eggs 

1  c.  sugar  6  Tbsp.  cocoa 

1  tsp.  vanilla  2  Tbsp.  oil 

Va  c.  sifted  all-purpose  flour  Va  c.  chopped  pecans 

Thoroughly  cream  butter,  sugar  and  vanilla.  Add  eggs;  beat 
well.  Blend  in  cocoa  and  oil.  Stir  in  flour  and  nuts.  Bake  in  greased 
8  x  8  x  2-inch  pan  at  325°  for  30  to  35  minutes.  Cool  and  cut  into 
squares. 

Bev  Ambrose 


GOLF  BALLS 

1  Va  c.  graham  cracker  crumbs  1  c.  peanut  butter 

1  box  confectioners  sugar  3  Va  sq.  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  coconut  1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips 

2  sticks  oleo  Va  slab  paraffin  wax 
1  c.  nuts,  chopped  fine 

Combine  the  first  6  ingredients  and  roll  into  balls.  Melt  together 
unsweetened  chocolate,  chocolate  chips  and  paraffin  wax.  Coat  balls 
with  chocolate  and  wax  mix,  then  put  out  to  cool  on  wax  paper. 

Cookie  Bryan 


111596 


-53- 


DESSERTS 


HALIFAX  DELIGHT 

(From  The  Old  Halifax  Hotel,  Virginia  Beach) 


10  to  12  chocolate  chip  cookies 
4  c.  milk  (cold) 

1  small  pkg.  instant  chocolate 
pudding  mix 


1  small  pkg.  instant  butterscotch 

pudding  mix 
1  large  container  Cool  Whip 
1  tsp.  almond  extract 
pecans  or  grated  chocolate 


Soak  cookies  in  milk  only  until  saturated.  Line  bottom  of  8  x  Vi 
x  12-inch  dish  with  cookies.  Mix  chocolate  pudding  with  cold  milk 
according  to  package  directions.  Pour  mixture  evenly  over  cookies. 

Stir  almond  extract  into  slightly  softened  Cool  Whip.  Spread  Vi 
Cool  Whip  mixture  over  chocolate  pudding.  Mix  butterscotch  pud- 
ding with  cold  milk  according  to  directions;  spread  over  Cool  Whip 
layer  in  dish.  Add  remaining  Cool  Whip  to  cover  butterscotch  pud- 
ding. Sprinkle  with  grated  chocolate  or  pecan  pieces.  Refrigerate  at 
least  1  hour.  May  be  refrigerated  24  hours,  if  needed.  Serves  8  to  10. 

Caroline  Kennett 


HEATH  BARS 


V2  c.  margarine 

Vs  c.  butter 

1  c.  brown  sugar 


1/2  c.  chopped  pecans 
graham  crackers 


Line  greased  cookie  sheet  with  graham  crackers.  Place  all  other 
ingredients  in  saucepan;  bring  to  a  boil.  Boil  for  2  minutes.  Pour  mix- 
ture over  graham  crackers;  bake  for  10  to  12  minutes  at  350°.  Watch 
carefully;  don't  overbake.  Cool  completely  and  cut  up  in  bars.  Store 
in  airtight  container. 

Lois  Speas 


-54- 


DESSERTS 


HEAVEN  IN  A  PAN  CAKE 


Cake: 


1  c.  chopped  dates 

1  tsp.  soda 

1  V»  c.  boiling  water 

V%  c.  butter  or  shortening 

1  c.  sugar 

Topping: 

1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips 
%  c.  pecans 


2  eggs,  beaten 

1  Vt  c.  plus  3  Tbsp.  flour 

1A  tsp.  salt 

%  tsp.  soda 


V2  c.  sugar 


Cake:  Pour  water  over  dates.  Add  soda;  set  aside  to  cool.  Cream 
butter  or  margarine,  1  cup  sugar  and  beaten  eggs.  Add  date  mixture 
to  creamed  mixture.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  soda  together;  combine 
with  above.  Pour  into  9  x  13  x  2-inch  baking  pan. 

Topping:  Mix  chocolate  chips,  sugar  and  pecans.  Sprinkle  over 
top  of  cake  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  35  to  40  minutes.  Do  not 
overbake. 

Diane  Cauthen 


111596 


-55- 


DESSERTS 

HOMEMADE  OATMEAL  COOKIE  MIX 

Cookie  Mix: 

2  V*  c.  all-purpose  flour  1  V2  c.  vegetable  shortening 
2  tsp.  salt  (solid) 

1  tsp.  baking  soda  6  c.  quick  or  old  fashioned  oats 

2  c.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar  (uncooked) 
1  c.  granulated  sugar 

Cookies: 

3  V3  c.  Oatmeal  Cookie  Mix  3  Tbsp.  water 
1  egg,  slightly  beaten  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cookie  Mix:  In  a  very  large  bowl  or  6-quart  Dutch  oven,  stir 
together  flour,  salt  and  soda.  Add  sugars,  mixing  well.  Cut  in  shorten- 
ing until  well  blended.  Stir  in  oats.  Store  in  tightly  covered  container 
in  refrigerator  or  cool  dry  place  up  to  3  months.  Makes  13  Vs  cups  oat- 
meal cookie  mix  so  will  make  many  batches. 

Oatmeal  Cookies:  Heat  oven  to  350°.  Grease  cookie  sheet  or 
spray  with  coating  (Baker's  Joy).  In  medium  bowl,  combine  all  ingre- 
dients. Mix  with  spoon  or  fork  about  1  minute  to  form  a  stiff  dough. 
Drop  by  rounded  teaspoonfuls  onto  prepared  cookie  sheet.  Bake  for 
about  15  minutes  or  until  light  golden  brown.  Cool  1  minute  on  cookie 
sheet  before  removing  to  wire  cooling  rack.  Makes  about  3  dozen 
cookies. 

Mary  Walker 

ICE  CREAM  CRUNCH  CAKE 

1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips  1  gal.  vanilla  ice  cream  or  frozen 

2/3_c.  smooth  peanut  butter  yogurt 

6  c.  crispy  rice  cereal 

Melt  chocolate  chips  and  peanut  butter  together  in  a  large  pan, 
then  add  cereal.  Spread  on  a  cookie  sheet  and  cool.  Break  up  cereal 
mixture  into  small  pieces.  Soften  ice  cream;  fold  in  all  but  1  cup  of 
cereal  mixture  and  spread  in  10-inch  spring-form  pan.  Use  remaining 
1  cup  cereal  mixture  to  make  decorative  topping,  then  freeze.  Garnish 
with  whipped  cream  and  strawberries,  if  desired.  Serves  12  to  15. 

Lois  Carbone 


-56- 


DESSERTS 

JUST  RIGHT  CHOCOLATE  CHIP  COOKIES 

2/3  c.  margarine  3  c.  flour 

2/3  c.  shortening  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

%  c.  granulated  sugar  1  tsp.  salt 

%  c.  brown  sugar  1  pkg.  instant  vanilla  pudding 

2  eggs  1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips 

2  tsp.  vanilla  1  c.  chopped  pecans 

Beat  shortenings  together  until  fluffy.  Add  both  sugars;  beat 
until  well  blended.  Beat  in  eggs  and  vanilla;  set  aside. 

In  separate  bowl,  mix  together  flour,  baking  soda,  salt  and  pud- 
ding mix.  Gradually  add  dry  ingredients  to  beaten  mixture  by  hand, 
stirring  well.  Stir  in  chocolate  chips  and  nuts.  Drop  by  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  onto  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350°  for  14  to  18 
minutes. 

Judy  Garner 


KAHLUA-CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

1  (18.25  oz.)  chocolate  cake  mix  3A  c.  vegetable  oil 

1  (8  oz.)  carton  sour  cream  1  c.  semi-sweet  chocolate 
4  eggs  morsels 

%  c.  Kahlua 

Frosting: 

2  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  2  Tbsp.  milk 

2  Tbsp.  cocoa  1  c.  sifted  powdered  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  Kahlua  1A  tsp.  vanilla 

Combine  the  first  5  ingredients  in  a  large  mixing  bowl.  Beat  at 
medium  speed  for  3  to  5  minutes.  Stir  in  chocolate  morsels.  Spoon  into 
a  greased  and  floured  10-inch  Bundt  pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  55  minutes 
or  until  wooden  pick  inserted  in  center  comes  out  clean.  Cool  in  pan 
30  minutes;  remove  from  pan  and  let  cool  completely  on  a  wire  rack. 

Frosting:  Combine  butter,  cocoa,  Kahlua  and  milk  in  a  small 
saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring,  until  butter  is  melted.  Stir  in  pow- 
dered sugar  and  vanilla.  Drizzle  over  cooled  cake. 

Margaret  McAbee 


-57- 


DESSERTS 

LAYERED  BANANA  PINEAPPLE  DESSERT 

1  Y2  c.  graham  cracker  crumbs  3  Va  c.  cold  milk 

!4  c.  sugar  2  (4  serving  size)  pkg.  instant 
V3  c.  melted  butter  or  margarine  pudding  and  pie  filling 

3  Dole  bananas,  sliced  1  (20  oz.)  can  Dole  crushed 
1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese,  pineapple,  drained 

softened  8  oz.  Cool  Whip  topping 

Mix  graham  cracker  crumbs,  sugar  and  margarine  in  a  13  x 
9-inch  pan.  Press  evenly  onto  bottom  of  pan.  Arrange  banana  slices 
on  crust. 

Beat  the  cream  cheese  in  large  bowl  with  wire  whisk  until 
smooth.  Gradually  beat  in  milk.  Add  pudding  mixes;  beat  until  well 
blended.  Spread  evenly  over  banana  slices.  Spoon  pineapple  evenly 
over  pudding  mixture.  Spread  whipped  topping  over  pineapple.  Re- 
frigerate 3  hours. 

Martha  Midgett 

LAZY  MAN  COBBLER 

1  c.  sugar  1  c.  milk 

6  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine,  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

sliced  into  V*  tsp.  pieces  1  can  fruit  pie  filling  (apple, 

1  c.  flour  peach,  blueberry,  cherry) 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  a  mixing 
bowl.  Pour  into  a  2-quart  rectangular  baking  dish.  Pour  fruit  pie  fill- 
ing on  top  of  mixture.  Bake  for  40  minutes.  Serve  hot  or  warm, 
topped  with  vanilla  ice  cream. 

Patti  Spann 

LEMON  SNOW 

1  (3  oz.)  pkg.  lemon  jello,  8  or  more  graham  crackers, 
dissolved  in  1  Vi  c.  boiling  crushed  finely  and  mixed  with 

water  2  Tbsp.  butter 

1  Va  c.  sugar  1  large  can  evaporated  milk, 

pinch  of  salt  chilled 

juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Mix  the  first  4  items  and  cool.  Whip  very  cold  evaporated  milk. 
Add  lemon  mixture.  Line  bottom  of  9  x  11-inch  pan  with  cracker 
crumb  mixture;  pour  in  lemon  mixture.  Chill  and  serve  in  squares. 

Jo  Sanders 

-58- 


DESSERTS 

LEMON  SPONGE  PUDDING 

1  large  or  2  small  lemon(s)  4  Tbsp.  flour 

4  eggs,  separated  1  V*  c.  milk 

1  c.  sugar  pinch  of  salt 

Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  light.  Grate  rind  of  lemon;  add 
to  lemon  juice  and  mix  with  yolks.  Add  Vi  cup  sugar  to  yolk  mixture. 
Combine  remaining  sugar  with  flour;  add  to  above.  Stir  in  milk  and 
salt.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  mixture  into  buttered  bak- 
ing dish;  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes,  or  until 
set.  Chill.  (Good  served  with  fish.) 

Beryl  Bates 

LEMON  SUPREME  CAKE 

1  pkg.  lemon  supreme  cake  mix  3A  c.  Wesson  oil 

(Duncan  Hines)  4  eggs 

1  c.  apricot  nectar  V2  c.  sugar 

Glaze  Topping: 
1  c.  powdered  sugar  juice  of  1  lemon 

Beat  together  the  cake  mix,  apricot  nectar,  Wesson  oil  and  sugar. 
Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  after  each.  Bake  in  tube  pan  (greased) 
at  325°  for  1  hour. 

Glaze  Topping:  Mix  powdered  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Dribble 
over  warm  cake. 

Linda  Magruder 


59- 


DESSERTS 


Crust: 


LEMON  SQUARES 


1  c.  all-purpose  flour 
V2  c.  butter,  softened 

Filling: 

2  eggs 

1  c.  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour 
Yz  tsp.  baking  powder 


Va  c.  confectioners  sugar 


1/4  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbsp.  fresh  lemon  juice 
2  tsp.  grated  lemon  zest 
confectioners  sugar 


Crust:  Mix  flour,  butter  and  confectioners  sugar;  press  into  bak- 
ing pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  to  30  minutes. 

Filling:  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Add  flour,  baking  powder, 
salt,  lemon  zest  and  juice;  mix  until  blended.  Pour  over  hot  crust  and 
bake  for  about  20  minutes,  until  light  golden  and  set.  Cool.  Cut  into 
squares  and  dust  with  confectioners  sugar. 

Brenda  Potter 


-60- 


DESSERTS 

LEMON  SURPRISE  CAKE 

6  eggs  2  Tbsp.  butter 

2  %  c.  sugar  1/2  tsp.  baking  soda 
1  !4  tsp.  salt  3  c.  presifted  flour 
1/4  c.  cornstarch  1  c.  shortening 

1  c.  water  1  c.  buttermilk 

4  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind  %  c.  graham  cracker  crumbs 

3  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Preheat  oven  to  375°.  Grease  and  flour  10-inch  tube  pan. 

Prepare  lemon  custard.  Beat  1  of  the  eggs  lightly.  In  saucepan, 
combine  2A  cup  of  the  sugar,  V4  teaspoon  of  the  salt  and  the  cornstarch. 
Stir  in  water,  1  teaspoon  of  the  lemon  rind,  lemon  juice  and  beaten  egg. 
Cook  over  moderate  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  thickened.  Stir  in 
butter;  cool. 

Sift  together  1  teaspoon  of  the  salt,  baking  soda  and  flour.  Cream 
shortening  and  remaining  sugar.  Stir  in  remaining  lemon  rind.  Add 
remaining  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Stir 
in  flour  mixture  alternately  with  buttermilk,  blending  well  after  each 
addition. 

Turn  half  of  batter  into  pan.  Cover  with  custard.  Add  remain- 
ing batter.  Sprinkle  with  all  but  2  tablespoons  of  graham  cracker 
crumbs.  Bake  for  55  to  60  minutes.  Remove  from  pan;  cool  on  wire 
rack.  Sprinkle  with  remaining  crumbs.  Store  in  refrigerator. 

Ethel  Scott 


-61  - 


DESSERTS 


MISSISSIPPI  MUD 


2  sticks  oleo  1  V*  to  2  c.  chopped  nuts 

2  c.  sugar  2  Tbsp.  cocoa 

4  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  V2  c.  flour  1  large  jar  marshmallow  cream 
1  c.  coconut 

Frosting: 

V2  c.  oleo  1  (16  oz.)  box  powdered  sugar 

V2  c.  cocoa  4  oz.  evaporated  skim  milk 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  oleo  and  sugar  together.  Add  eggs,  one  at  the  time,  beat- 
ing after  each.  Mix  in  flour,  beating  well.  Add  coconut,  then  add  nuts, 
cocoa  and  vanilla,  in  that  order.  Pour  into  well-greased  9  x  13 -inch 
pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  45  minutes.  Spread  marshmallow  cream  imme- 
diately while  cake  is  warm,  then  cool. 

Frosting:  Mix  oleo  and  cocoa;  cook  until  mixture  bubbles.  Add 
vanilla,  powdered  sugar  and  milk;  mix  well.  Spread  on  cake. 
Delicious! 

Cookie  Bryan 

MUD  PIE  CRUNCH 

20  Oreo  cookies  1  (V2  gal.)  coffee  ice  cream, 

2  Tbsp.  margarine,  softened  softened 

5  Heath  bars,  broken  in  tiny  1  can  Hershey's  chocolate  syrup 
pieces,  or  3  packs  Heath 

Sensations 

Remove  cream  filling  from  16  Oreos;  crush  finely.  Mix  cookie 
crumbs  with  margarine  and  press  in  bottom  of  a  9  x  13 -inch  pan.  Bake 
at  350°  for  10  minutes;  cool  completely. 

Drizzle  chocolate  syrup  over  crust  to  almost  cover.  Sprinkle  half 
of  Heath  pieces  over  syrup.  Pack  ice  cream  firmly  on  top  of  Heath 
pieces.  Drizzle  remaining  chocolate  syrup  over  ice  cream.  Sprinkle 
remaining  Heath  pieces  on  top.  Coarsely  break  remaining  Oreos  and 
decorate  top  of  dessert.  Freeze. 

To  serve,  remove  from  freezer  and  let  stand  at  room  temperature 
10  to  15  minutes.  Cut  into  squares. 

Tiffany  Dormire 


-62- 


DESSERTS 

NANAIMO  BARS 

Bottom  Layer: 

V2  c.  unsalted  butter  1  egg,  beaten 

V*  c.  granulated  sugar  1/2  c.  finely  chopped  almonds 

5  Tbsp.  cocoa  1  c.  unsweetened  coconut 

1  %  c.  graham  wafer  crumbs 

Middle  Layer: 

Va  c.  unsalted  butter  2  Tbsp.  vanilla  custard  powder 

2  Tbsp.  plus  2  tsp.  cream  2  c.  icing  sugar 

Top  Layer: 

4  (1  oz.)  sq.  semi-sweet  2  Tbsp.  unsalted  butter 

chocolate 

Bottom  Layer:  Melt  the  first  3  ingredients  in  the  top  of  a  double 
boiler.  Add  egg  and  stir  to  cook  and  thicken  (about  1  minute).  Re- 
move from  heat  and  stir  in  crumbs,  coconut  and  nuts.  Press  firmly  into 
ungreased  8-inch  pan. 

Middle  Layer:  Cream  together  the  butter,  cream,  custard  powder 
and  icing  sugar;  beat  until  light.  Spread  over  bottom  layer. 

Top  Layer:  Melt  chocolate  and  butter  over  low  heat;  cool.  When 
cool  but  still  liquid,  pour  over  middle  layer  and  chill  in  the  refrigerator. 
Lightly  mark  squares  before  chocolate  hardens  completely. 

Jean  Macpherson 

NAVY  NURSED  FRESH  BLACKBERRY  COBBLER 

Va  c.  (1  stick)  butter  1  %  c.  packaged  biscuit  mix 

1 Va  c.  sugar,  divided  1  c.  milk 

4  c.  fresh  blackberries  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  In  350°  oven,  melt  butter  in  13  x  9  x  2-inch 
baking  dish.  Mix  %  cup  sugar  with  the  berries  and  toss  with  a  fork 
to  coat  evenly.  Mix  remaining  %  cup  sugar  with  biscuit  mix,  milk  and 
vanilla.  Pour  mixture  over  melted  butter;  do  not  stir.  Spread  berries 
evenly  over  batter;  again,  do  not  stir.  Bake  at  350°  for  40  to  45  minutes. 
Serve  warm  with  vanilla  ice  cream  or  whipped  cream.  Makes  6  to  8 
servings. 

Jan  Callaway 


-63- 


DESSERTS 

NEW  YORK  CHEESE  CAKE 

1  lb.  cream  cheese,  softened  3  Tbsp.  flour 

1  lb.  Ricotta  cheese  3  Tbsp.  cornstarch 

1  1/2  c.  sugar  2  Vz  tsp.  vanilla 

4  eggs  (room  temperature)  2  c.  sour  cream 
Vi  c.  butter,  melted 

In  a  large  bowl  with  a  mixer,  cream  the  cream  cheese,  Ricotta 
cheese  and  sugar.  Beat  in  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each. 
Add  butter,  flour,  cornstarch  and  vanilla;  beat  until  well  combined. 
Fold  in  sour  cream.  Turn  into  ungreased  9-inch  spring-form  pan  and 
bake  in  middle  of  preheated  325°  oven  for  1  hour.  (Cake  will  be  soft 
in  the  center.)  Turn  off  the  heat  (do  not  open  oven  door)  and  let  cake 
remain  in  oven  for  2  hours. 

Remove  from  oven;  set  on  rack  and  cool  completely  in  pan. 
Remove  from  the  pan  and  chill,  loosely  wrapped,  for  at  least  2  hours 
before  serving. 

Carole  Honeycutt 

NO  BAKE  JEWELED  CHERRY  FRUIT  CAKE 

%  c.  evaporated  milk  1  c.  pecans,  chopped 

Vb  c.  cranberry  juice  1  c.  raisins 

6  c.  miniature  marshmallows  (12  1c.  candied  cherries,  halved 
oz.)  V2  c.  mixed  candied  fruit 

V2  tsp.  grated  lemon  peel  V*  c.  coconut,  flaked 

7  Vz  c.  graham  crackers,  crushed 

Pour  evaporated  milk  and  cranberry  juice  over  marshmallows. 
Add  lemon  peel  and  let  stand  3  hours,  stirring  occasionally. 

Combine  graham  crackers,  pecans,  candied  fruit  and  coconut  in 
a  bowl.  Add  marshmallow  mixture;  mix  well.  Pack  into  well  buttered 
2-quart  bell  shaped  mold.  Cover  with  foil.  Refrigerate  several  days. 

Faye  Briggs 


-64- 


DESSERTS 

NORTH  CAROLINA  PECAN  PIE 

(1933) 

3  eggs  2  Tbsp.  flour 

2  V*  c.  brown  sugar  1  c.  pecans 

Va  c.  melted  butter  2  (9-inch)  pie  shells  or  1 

2  egg  shells  of  milk  or  1/3  c.  deep-dish  pie  shell 
sweet  milk 

Beat  eggs.  Add  other  ingredients.  Add  pecans  on  top.  Will 
make  2  thin  pies  or  one  deep  pie.  Bake  at  350°  for  40  minutes,  or 
until  firm. 

Virginia  R.  Bell 


NUT  CAKE 

1/2  lb.  butter  or  margarine  2  c.  sifted  flour 

2  c.  sugar  2  c.  chopped  pecans,  dusted 

5  eggs  with  small  amount  of  flour 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  the  margarine.  Gradually  add  sugar,  beating  until  light 
and  fluffy.  Beat  eggs  in  separate  bowl.  Add  vanilla  to  eggs.  Alternate- 
ly add  flour  and  eggs  (beginning  and  ending  with  flour)  to  creamed 
mixture.  Fold  in  pecans. 

Grease  and  flour  a  tube  pan.  Bake  in  a  325°  oven  for  1  to  1  XA 
hours.  Cool  10  minutes  and  remove  from  pan.  Freezes  well. 

Judy  Garner 

OATMEAL  CRUNCHIES 

%  c.  creamy  peanut  butter  1  c.  sifted  flour 

1  c.  shortening  1  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  sugar  2  tsp.  cinnamon 

V*  c.  milk  %  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  tsp.  vanilla  3  V2  c.  rolled  oats  (quick) 

3  eggs  2  c.  raisins 

Preheat  oven  to  375°.  Blend  the  first  3  ingredients.  Add  the  next 
3  ingredients;  mix  well.  Stir  in  combined  dry  ingredients.  Add  oats 
and  raisins;  mix  well.  Drop  1  teaspoonful  for  each  cookie  onto  greased 
sheet.  Bake  for  12  minutes.  Cool  on  sheet  for  2  minutes;  move  to 
cooling  rack. 

Louise  Stewart 


-65  - 


DESSERTS 

OLD  FASHIONED  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

2  c.  sifted  all-purpose  flour  1  c.  water 

2  c.  sugar  Va  c.  buttermilk 

V2  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

V2  c.  butter  2  eggs 

Va  c.  Crisco  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
4  Tbsp.  cocoa 

Frosting: 

3  Tbsp.  cocoa  Va  c.  butter,  softened 
6  Tbsp.  milk  Va  c.  nuts 

1  (1  lb.)  box  confectioners  sugar  Va  c.  coconut  (optional) 

1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

In  a  large  bowl,  combine  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Combine  in  sauce- 
pan the  butter,  Crisco,  cocoa  and  water.  Bring  to  a  full  boil.  Pour  over 
dry  mixture.  Add  buttermilk,  baking  soda,  eggs  and  vanilla;  beat  well. 
Pour  into  9  x  13-inch  pan.  Bake  for  30  minutes  at  350°. 

Frosting:  Prepare  while  cake  is  baking.  Using  high  speed  on  mix- 
er, beat  the  first  5  ingredients  until  smooth.  Fold  in  nuts  and  coconut. 
Frost  immediately  while  cake  is  hot!  Frosting  will  soak  into  cake. 

Madeleine  Cox 


ORANGE  CLOUD  PIE 

1  c.  sugar  3  eggs,  separated 

1  envelope  gelatin  1  small  (6  oz.)  can  frozen  orange 

1  dash  salt  juice 

%  c.  milk  1  Tbsp.  margarine 

Va  c.  water  3  Tbsp.  powdered  sugar 

Combine  sugar,  salt  and  gelatin  in  milk  and  water;  heat  until  dis- 
solved. Add  beaten  egg  yolks;  stir  well.  Cook  over  double  boiler  until 
mixture  coats  spoon,  about  5  minutes.  Remove  from  heat.  Add 
orange  juice  and  margarine;  stir  until  dissolved.  Chill  until  thickened. 

Beat  egg  whites  with  powdered  sugar  and  fold  into  orange  mix- 
ture. Pour  into  baked  pie  shell  and  chill.  May  be  frozen. 

Betty  Forbes 


-66 


DESSERTS 


PEANUT  BLOSSOMS 


1  %  c.  flour 
1  tsp.  soda 
V2  tsp.  salt 
V2  tsp.  sugar 

Vt  c.  firmly  packed  brown  sugar 
v'2  c.  smooth  or  crunchy  peanut 
butter 


V2  c.  shortening 

1  egg 

2  Tbsp.  milk 

1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
48  Hershey's  Kisses 


Combine  all  ingredients,  except  candy,  in  a  large  mixing  bowl. 
Mix  on  lowest  speed  of  mixer  until  dough  forms.  Shape  dough  into 
balls,  using  a  rounded  teaspoonful  for  each.  Roll  balls  in  sugar;  place 
on  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  375°  for  10  to  12  minutes.  Top 
each  cookie  immediately  with  a  candy  Kiss;  press  down  firmly  so 
cookie  cracks  around  the  edges.  Yields  4  dozen. 

Leigh  Ann  Wilson 

PECAN  PIE 


V2  c.  granulated  sugar 

1  c.  brown  sugar,  lightly  packed 

1  Tbsp.  flour 

2  Tbsp.  milk 
1  tsp.  vanilla 


2  eggs 

7  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 

1  c.  pecans 

1  unbaked  pie  shell 


Mix  all  ingredients,  except  butter  and  pecans.  Melt  butter  and 
add  to  mixture.  Add  pecans.  Pour  into  pie  shell  and  bake  for  30  to 
35  minutes  at  350°  or  until  filling  is  firm.  Cover  with  foil  if  pie  begins 
to  brown  too  much. 

Cathy  Watson 


-67- 


DESSERTS 

PECAN  SQUARES 

1  c.  margarine,  softened  4  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  y%  c.  sugar  1  egg,  separated 

2  c.  flour  1  c.  chopped  pecans 
1A  tsp.  salt 

Combine  margarine,  1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  flour 
and  egg  yolk;  blend  well.  Press  into  greased  jelly  roll  pan.  Beat  egg 
white  until  foamy;  using  a  pastry  brush,  brush  over  the  dough. 

Combine  Vi  sugar  with  2  teaspoons  cinnamon  and  sprinkle  over 
egg  white.  Top  with  chopped  pecans.  Bake  for  20  minutes  in  a  350° 
oven.  Cut  into  squares  while  hot.  Cool  in  pan. 

Helen  C.  Gray 

PICK  ME  UPS 

3  to  4  graham  crackers  1  c.  semi-sweet  chocolate  chips 
1  c.  powdered  sugar                               Vs>  c.  instant  nonfat  dry  milk 

1  c.  crunchy  peanut  butter  3  Tbsp.  water 

Crush  graham  crackers  onto  wax  paper.  Mix  remaining  ingredi- 
ents thoroughly  and  shape  into  balls.  Roll  the  balls  in  graham  cracker 
crumbs  until  coated.  Refrigerate  balls  about  20  minutes  or  until  firm. 

Note:  Children  like  these. 

Debbie  Hartley 


PINEAPPLE  DROP  COOKIES 

1  V2  c.  sugar  3  V2  c.  flour 

V'-i  c.  shortening  1  Tbsp.  baking  soda 

2  eggs  V*  tsp.  salt 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple  some  nuts  (may  be  added) 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  well.  Drop  by  teaspoon  onto  greased 
cookie  sheet.  Bake  in  a  360°  oven  until  lightly  browned.  Quick,  easy 
and  very  good. 

Ethel  Dill 


-68- 


DESSERTS 

POPCORN  CAKE 

2  Vh  c.  popped  popcorn  1  lb.  marshmallows 

Vs  lb.  peanuts  y2  c.  butter 

1  lb.  sliced  gumdrops 

Put  popped  popcorn,  peanuts  and  gumdrops  in  a  large  bowl. 
Melt  butter  and  marshmallows  together;  pour  over  first  mixture.  But- 
ter a  tube  pan.  Press  mixture  into  pan.  Cool  20  minutes,  then  slice. 

Louise  Stewart 

POPPY  SEED  TORTE 

Crust: 

1  Va  c.  graham  cracker  crumbs  %  c.  melted  butter 

1  c.  flour  %  c.  chopped  pecans 

Filling: 

1  pkg.  Knox  gelatine  2  heaping  Tbsp.  cornstarch 

Va  c.  cold  water  V*  tsp.  salt 

1  Va  c.  milk  Vi  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

5  eggs,  separated  Va  c.  sugar 

Va  c.  poppy  seed  whipped  cream 

Crust:  Mix  flour,  butter  and  nuts  together.  Press  into  9  x  13-inch 
Pyrex  dish.  Bake  at  350°  until  light  brown,  about  20  minutes. 

Filling:  Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Mix  the  next  5  ingredi- 
ents in  a  double  boiler;  cook  until  thickened  over  medium  heat,  stirring 
most  of  the  time.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  gelatine.  Beat  egg  whites 
and  cream  of  tartar  until  thick.  Add  sugar,  a  little  at  a  time,  beating 
all  the  while.  Add  poppy  seed  mixture  to  egg  white  mixture.  Pour 
over  crumb  crust  and  chill.  Before  serving,  frost  top  with  whipped 
cream. 

Patsy  Bevan 


-69- 


DESSERTS 

PUNCH  BOWL  CAKE 

1  box  yellow  cake  mix  1  large  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  large  and  1  small  pkg.  vanilla  with  juices 
instant  pudding                                   2  (8  oz.)  Cool  Whip 

5  c.  milk  V2  c.  chopped  nuts 

2  cans  cherry  pie  filling 

Cook  cake  in  a  9  x  13-inch  pan;  let  cool.  Crumble  Vi  the  cake; 
place  in  bottom  of  punch  bowl.  Mix  puddings  and  put  Vi  over  the  cake. 
Add  Vi  can  pineapple  with  juice.  Pour  1  can  cherry  pie  filling  over 
pineapple.  Top  with  one  of  the  8-ounce  Cool  Whip.  Add  Va  cup 
chopped  nuts.  Repeat. 

Mary  Walker 

QUICK  AND  EASY  CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1  c.  Baker's  semi-sweet  V%  c.  butter,  melted 

chocolate  chips  2  eggs,  beaten 

1  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

V2  c.  flour  1  unbaked  pie  shell 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  350° 
for  45  minutes. 

Blanche  Cox 


QUICK  CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

%  c.  oleo  1  1/3  c.  flour 

1  1/2  c.  sugar  Vb  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  baking  powder 
V-2  c.  cocoa 

Melt  oleo  in  large  saucepan.  Add  all  other  ingredients;  mix  well. 
Drop  onto  greased  cookie  sheet  spread  well  apart.  Bake  at  375°  for 
8  to  10  minutes. 

Louise  Stewart 


-70- 


DESSERTS 

QUICK  LEMON  CHESS  PIE 

1  1/z  c.  sugar  4  eggs 

1  stick  butter  or  margarine  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

pinch  of  salt  1  (9-inch)  pie  crust 

Beat  sugar  and  eggs  together.  Melt  butter  or  margarine  in  micro- 
wave. Add  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind  to  butter  or  margarine  to  pre- 
vent curdling.  Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Pour  into  9-inch  pie  crust. 
Bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes  or  until  evenly  firm. 

Diane  Cauthen 

RICH  PECAN  PIE 

3  eggs  1  Tbsp.  melted  butter 

1  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

1  Tbsp.  flour  1  c.  pecan  halves 

1/4  tsp.  salt  1  (9-inch)  pie  crust 
1  c.  light  corn  syrup 

Beat  eggs  slightly.  Add  remaining  ingredients  in  order  given. 
Pour  into  pastry  lined  9-inch  pie  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour.  Makes 
one  9-inch  pie. 

(My  mother's  recipe:  Eva  Mae  Atkinson,  deceased.) 

Barbara  E.  Marquette 

RITZ  PIE 

1  c.  less  3  tsp.  sugar  %  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

3  egg  whites  */a  pt.  whipping  cream,  plus  V* 

1  c.  finely  chopped  pecans  tsp.  vanilla 

20  Ritz  crackers  unsweetened  chocolate 

Crush  crackers.  Add  Vi  of  sugar  and  all  of  vanilla  and  nuts;  mix 
well.  Beat  egg  whites  and  remaining  sugar  until  stiff.  Fold  in  first 
mixture.  Bake  in  buttered  pie  pan  for  30  minutes  at  350°.  Cool. 
Spread  top  with  whipped  cream  to  which  XA  teaspoon  vanilla  has  been 
added.  Grate  small  amount  of  unsweetened  chocolate  over  top 
(optional).  Chill  at  least  3  hours  or  overnight. 

Martha  Jo  Wilson 


71  - 


DESSERTS 

RUM  CAKE 

1  buttery  yellow  cake  mix  V2  c.  water 

1  (5  72  oz.)  vanilla  instant  pudding  Vk  c.  rum 

4  eggs 

Beat  all  ingredients  together,  mixing  well.  Grease  and  flour  a 
Bundt  pan.  Pour  mixture  into  pan  and  bake  at  325°  for  50  minutes. 
Cool  cake  for  15  minutes,  then  remove  from  pan. 

Topping: 

V2  c.  rum  Vi  c.  sugar 

Va  lb.  butter  1A  c.  water 

Blend  together  all  topping  ingredients  in  saucepan.  Bring  to  a 
boil.  Pierce  cake  and  slowly  spoon  sauce  over  pierced  cake. 

Recipe  from  The  Ford  Island,  Hawaii,  Navy  Wives'  Club 
Cookbook. 

Betty  Moranville 

SALTINE  CRACKER  PRALINE 

1  box  saltine  crackers  1  c.  brown  sugar 

1  c.  butter  12  oz.  chocolate  chips 

Cover  cookie  sheet  with  saltine  crackers.  Melt  butter  and  add 
brown  sugar.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  boil  about  3  V2  minutes.  Pour  over 
crackers  and  spread.  Bake  in  a  400°  oven  for  3  to  4  minutes.  Syrup 
will  boil  and  crackers  will  float.  Remove  from  oven.  Sprinkle  with 
chocolate  chips,  spreading  with  knife  as  it  melts. 

Chopped  nuts  can  also  be  added. 

Rosalee  Jewell 


-72- 


DESSERTS 

SCOTTISH  SHORTBREAD 

\U  c.  confectioners  sugar  Vz  c.  rice  flour 

1A  c.  granulated  sugar  1  %  c.  unbleached  white  flour 

1  c.  butter 

Preheat  oven  to  325°.  Mix  confectioners  sugar  and  granulated 
sugar.  In  a  large  bowl,  cream  butter  and  sugars.  Mix  rice  and  white 
flours  together  in  a  separate  bowl.  Gradually  incorporate  flours  into 
butter-sugar  mixture  with  your  hands.  Do  not  overwork  or  roll  out 
dough.  Simply  pat  dough  into  a  round  pie  tin  or  square  baking  pan 
to  a  thickness  of  approximately  Vi  inch. 

Score  dough  with  a  sharp  knife  (in  triangular  wedges  or  squares, 
according  to  the  pan  used).  Pinch  edges  and  decorate  by  pressing  a 
fork  into  the  dough.  Bake  in  preheated  oven  for  45  minutes  or  until 
shortbread  is  lightly  browned  and  still  springy  to  the  touch.  Cool  in 
pan  15  minutes,  then  gently  remove  to  rack  to  cool  completely. 

Laura  Macpherson-Smith 

SOUFFLE  DANNON 

2  (16  oz.)  tubs  Dannon  raspberry  1  (16  oz.)  tub  Cool  Whip 
yogurt 

Simply  mix  and  serve,  topped  with  fresh  blueberries  or  raspber- 
ries. One  of  the  easy  ones!  Serves  4  to  6. 

Betty  Broyles 


-73- 


DESSERTS 

SOUR  CREAM  APPLE  SQUARES 

2  c.  all-purpose  flour  V2  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  packed  brown  sugar  1  c.  (8  oz.)  sour  cream 

V2  c.  butter,  softened  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  chopped  nuts  1  egg,  beaten 

2  tsp.  ground  cinnamon  2  c.  chopped,  peeled  apples 
1  tsp.  baking  soda  whipped  cream  (optional) 

In  a  mixing  bowl,  combine  flour,  brown  sugar  and  butter;  blend 
at  low  speed  until  crumbly.  Stir  in  nuts.  Press  about  2  3A  cups  into 
the  bottom  of  an  ungreased  13  x  9  x  2-inch  baking  dish.  To  the 
remaining  crumb  mixture,  add  cinnamon,  baking  soda,  salt,  sour 
cream,  vanilla  and  egg.  Beat  until  thoroughly  combined.  Stir  in 
apples.  Spoon  evenly  over  bottom  layer.  Bake  at  350°  for  35  to  40  min- 
utes or  until  cake  tests  done.  Cool  on  wire  rack.  Cut  into  squares. 
Garnish  with  whipped  cream,  if  desired.  Yields  12  to  15  servings. 

Cathy  Watson 

SOUR  CREAM  POUND  CAKE 

Va  lb.  margarine,  softened  1A  tsp.  baking  soda,  added  to 

3  c.  sugar  sour  cream 

6  eggs  1  c.  sour  cream 

3  c.  flour  1  Va  tsp.  vanilla 

1  Va  tsp.  lemon  extract 

Beat  margarine  and  sugar  together  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each.  Add  flour  and  sour  cream 
alternately,  beginning  and  ending  with  flour.  Add  extracts.  Pour  into 
buttered  and  floured  tube  pan  or  2  loaf  pans.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  to  1  V* 
hours.  Freezes  well. 

Judy  Garner 


-74- 


DESSERTS 

SOUR  CREAM  POUND  CAKE 

2  sticks  butter  1  c.  sour  cream 

1/2  c.  Wesson  oil  1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  c.  sugar  1/2  tsp.  salt 

5  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

3  c.  cake  flour  1  tsp.  lemon  extract 

1A  c.  milk 

Cream  butter  and  oil  until  creamy.  Add  sugar  and  beat  until 
light  and  fluffy.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each,  then 
add  flavorings.  Add  dry  ingredients,  milk  and  sour  cream.  Pour  in 
floured  tube  pan  and  bake  for  1  Vi  hours  at  300°. 

Alice  Parrish 

SPECIAL  K  BARS 

7  c.  Special  K  cereal  1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips 

1  c.  light  corn  syrup  1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  peanut  butter 

1  c.  peanut  butter  chips  or  butterscotch  chips 
1/2  c.  sugar 

Put  Special  K  in  a  large  bowl.  Heat  corn  syrup,  sugar  and  peanut 
butter  until  all  is  melted.  Pour  over  cereal;  mix  well.  Spread  into  a 
large  lipped  cookie  sheet  (I  used  a  9  x  13-inch  pan).  I  use  my  hands 
to  pat  down. 

Over  low  heat,  warm  chocolate  chips  and  peanut  butter  or  butter- 
scotch chips  together  until  melted.  Spread  over  the  cereal  mixture. 
Refrigerate  in  order  to  set  the  chocolate,  then  they  can  be  kept  at  room 
temperature. 

Leigh  Ann  Wilson 


-75- 


DESSERTS 

STRAWBERRY  DELIGHT  CAKE 

1  pkg.  white  cake  mix  V3  c.  Crisco  oil 

1  (3  oz.)  pkg.  strawberry  jello  V*  c.  cold  water 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  4  egg  whites  (unbeaten) 
strawberries  (undrained) 

Frosting: 

1  (16  oz.)  box  powdered  sugar  V*  of  the  thawed  strawberries 

V2  c.  butter,  softened 

To  the  cake  mix,  add  jello,  V2  of  the  strawberries  (juice  included), 
Crisco  and  water.  Beat  at  low  speed  for  2  minutes.  Add  egg  whites; 
beat  at  high  speed  for  5  minutes.  Pour  into  two  9-inch  cake  pans 
(greased)  and  bake  for  25  to  30  minutes  at  350°. 

Frosting:  Mix  powdered  sugar,  butter  and  remainder  of  straw- 
berries. Beat  until  thick  and  creamy.  Spread  on  cooled  cake  layers. 

Martha  Harris 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM  CAKE 

V2  gal.  vanilla  ice  cream,  1  small  jar  strawberry  preserves 

softened  1  small  box  strawberry  jello 

Va  gal.  strawberry  ice  cream,  1  c.  boiling  water 

softened  1  (8  oz.)  Cool  Whip 

1  angel  food  cake,  broken  into  coconut  (optional) 

pieces  red  food  coloring  (optional) 

Mix  strawberry  jello  with  boiling  water;  let  set  until  sticky.  In 
tube  pan,  alternate  angel  food  cake  with  large  spoonfuls  of  ice  creams 
and  preserves.  When  pan  is  half  full,  pour  half  of  jello  over  all.  Con- 
tinue alternating  ice  creams  and  cake  and  preserves.  Top  with 
remaining  jello.  Freeze  until  firm. 

Remove  from  pan  and  frost  with  Cool  Whip  (tinted  pink,  if 
desired).  Add  coconut,  if  desired.  Refreeze  until  ready  to  serve. 

Alternative  Number  1:  Use  V2  gallon  lime  sherbet  and  lime  jello. 

Alternative  Number  2:  Use  Vi  gallon  chocolate  ice  cream,  1  jar 
hot  fudge  sauce  (heated  so  it  will  pour)  and  1  cup  pecans  (chopped). 
This  version  makes  a  nice  Christmas  gift.  After  frosting,  decorate  with 
holly  leaves  made  from  cherries  and  green  colored  sugar.  Add  a  red 
velvet  bow. 

Patsy  Bevan 


-76- 


DESSERTS 

SUGAR  JUMBLES 

V2  c.  soft  butter  1  Ve  c.  flour 

V2  c.  sugar  y4  tsp.  soda 

1  egg  y2  tsp.  salt 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  butter,  sugar,  egg  and  vanilla  thoroughly.  Sift  dry  ingredi- 
ents together;  add  to  butter  mixture.  Drop  rounded  teaspoonfuls,  two 
inches  apart,  on  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  375°  for  8  to  10  minutes. 
Cool  slightly  and  remove  from  cookie  sheet.  Makes  3  dozen  2-inch 
cookies. 

Bev  Ambrose 


SUICIDE  CAKE 

1  box  devil's  food  cake  mix  8  oz.  sour  cream 

1  small  pkg.  chocolate  instant  Vfe  c.  oil 

pudding  Vz  c.  water 

1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips  powdered  sugar 
4  eggs 

Blend  all  ingredients,  except  chips,  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Stir 
in  chips.  Pour  into  greased  or  Pam  sprayed  Bundt  or  tube  pan.  Bake 
at  350°  for  50  to  60  minutes.  Cool  20  minutes  before  removing  from 
pan.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Hud  Clark 


SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

2  c.  steamed  sweet  potatoes  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  c.  milk  1  tsp.  nutmeg 

2  eggs  1/z  tsp.  ginger 

V»  c.  sugar  1  unbaked  9-inch  pie  crust 

V*  tsp.  salt  whipped  cream 

Mash  steamed  sweet  potatoes  and  mix  in  dry  ingredients.  Mix 
milk  and  eggs;  combine  with  potato  mixture.  Pour  into  pie  crust.  Bake 
in  very  hot  oven  (450°)  for  10  minutes,  then  reduce  temperature  to  350° 
and  bake  about  35  minutes  longer.  Cool.  To  serve,  top  with  whipped 
cream. 

Dot  Burns 


-77- 


DESSERTS 

TART  'N  TANGY  FRUIT  COMPOTE 

1  (6  oz.)  can  frozen  1  (8  oz.)  can  pineapple  chunks  in 
orange-pineapple  juice  its  own  juice  (undrained) 

concentrate,  thawed  1  c.  seedless  red  or  purple 
Va  tsp.  cinnamon  grapes 

1  tsp.  brandy  extract  1  large  tart  green  apple 

1  (1 1  oz.)  can  mandarin  orange  (unpeeled),  cubed 
segments,  drained 

In  a  large  bowl,  combine  juice  concentrate,  cinnamon  and  brandy 
extract;  blend  well.  Add  fruits;  toss  gently.  Refrigerate  at  least  1  hour 
to  blend  flavors.  Stir  gently  before  serving.  Serves  6. 

Mary  Walker 

TENNESSEE  BOILED  CUSTARD 

3  c.  milk  1  V2  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour 

2  eggs  plus  2  to  3  egg  yolks  1  tsp.  vanilla 
2/3  c.  sugar 

Pour  the  milk  into  the  top  of  a  double  boiler  with  water  in  the 
bottom  half.  Bring  the  water  to  a  boil.  Cook  until  milk  is  heated 
through;  do  not  scald.  Set  aside. 

Beat  2  eggs  until  frothy  at  medium  speed  with  an  electric  mixer. 
Add  sugar  and  flour,  beating  until  thick.  Gradually  stir  about  1  cup 
of  the  hot  milk  into  the  egg  mixture.  Add  the  egg  mixture  to  the 
remaining  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Add  2  to  3  lightly  beaten  egg 
yolks.  Cook  custard  mixture  in  the  double  boiler  over  low  heat,  stir- 
ring occasionally,  for  30  minutes  or  until  desired  thickness.  Stir  in  the 
vanilla. 

Store  in  a  glass  container  (glass  juice  bottle  is  great)  in  the  refrig- 
erator up  to  one  week.  Whipped  topping  is  a  great  topper.  Serve  this 
over  the  Christmas  holiday  with  coconut  cake  or  pecan  pie.  Great 
family  tradition. 

Malinda  Connell 


-78- 


DESSERTS 

TING-A-LINGS 

(Unbaked) 

1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  semi-sweet  1  (4  oz.)  can  chow  mein  noodles 

chocolate  bits  1  c.  red  skin  salted  peanuts  or 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  butterscotch  bits  salted  cashews 

Melt  bits;  remove  from  flame.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and 
mix.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  waxed  paper.  Makes  about  3  Vi  dozen 
cookies. 

Helen  Twine 


TUBBY'S  APPLES 

6  medium  tart  apples  (Granny  Vi  tsp.  nutmeg 

Smith  preferred)  V*  c.  water 

1  lemon  %  c.  brown  sugar 

Va  tsp.  salt  Vi  c.  flour 

Vi  tsp.  cinnamon  Vb  c.  butter 

Preheat  oven  to  400°.  Place  pared,  cored  and  thinly  sliced  apples 
in  shallow  buttered  casserole.  Grate  lemon  peel  and  sprinkle  over 
apples.  Mix  cinnamon,  salt,  nutmeg,  water  and  juice  of  lemon;  pour 
over  apples.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  butter  together  until  crumbly;  sprin- 
kle over  apples.  Bake,  uncovered,  for  30  minutes. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 


-79- 


DESSERTS 


1  c.  butter 

2  c.  sugar 
2  eggs 

1  c.  sour  cream 
Vz  tsp.  vanilla 


WELLESLEY  COFFEE  CAKE 

1/2  tsp.  almond  extract 
2  c.  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 
Va  tsp.  salt 


Filling: 

4  tsp.  sugar 

1  c.  chopped  pecans 


1  tsp.  cinnamon 


Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one 
at  a  time,  beating  with  each  addition.  Add  sour  cream,  vanilla  and 
almond  extract;  beat  well.  Combine  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt; 
add  to  mixture  and  beat. 

Filling:  In  separate  bowl,  combine  sugar,  pecans  and  cinnamon. 
Place  J/3  batter  in  well-greased  and  floured  tube  pan.  Sprinkle  with  % 
of  filling  mixture.  Spoon  in  rest  of  batter  and  sprinkle  with  remaining 
filling.  Bake  for  1  hour.  This  cake  freezes  well. 

Helen  C.  Gray 
Julie  Lewis 


WHITE  CHOCOLATE  CHUNK  MACADAMIA 
COOKIES 


1  c.  butter  or  margarine, 
softened 

1  c.  light  brown  sugar,  firmly 
packed 

Va  c.  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  Va  c.  flour 


1  tsp.  baking  soda 
1  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  Macadamia  nuts,  coarsely 
chopped 

2  c.  white  chocolate  or  almond 
bark,  broken  into  bite  size 
chunks 


Cream  butter  or  margarine  and  sugars  until  light  and  fluffy.  Beat 
in  eggs  and  vanilla.  Combine  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt;  gradually 
add  to  creamed  mixture.  Stir  in  nuts  and  chocolate.  Drop  by  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  onto  greased  baking  sheets.  Bake  in  a  preheated  350° 
oven  for  10  to  12  minutes.  Cool  slightly  before  removing  from  baking 
sheets.  Yields  approximately  6  dozen  cookies. 

Belva  Lynn  Comba 


-80- 


DESSERTS 

WHITE  CHOCOLATE  MOUSSE 

2  sticks  (8  oz.)  white  chocolate  1  Tbsp.  unflavored  gelatin 

(Toblerone)  1  c.  cream 

Vjs  stick  butter  fresh  raspberries  or  fruit  of 

4  eggs,  separated  choice 
Va  c.  sugar 

Soften  chocolate  and  butter;  beat  until  fluffy.  Beat  in  egg  yolks, 
melted  gelatin  and  sugar.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  indi- 
vidual dishes  or  one  large  mold.  Allow  to  chill  for  several  hours.  Gar- 
nish with  fruit.  Serves  8. 

Betty  Broyles 

WHOOPIE  PIES 

Va  c.  cocoa  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1/2  c.  hot  water  Va  c.  oil 

1  Va  c.  sugar  V2  tsp.  salt 

2  unbeaten  eggs  or  1  egg  and  2  1  tsp.  baking  powder 
yolks  1  tsp.  soda 

Va  c.  sour  milk  2  %  c.  flour 

Filling: 

%  c.  Crisco  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  c.  confectioners  sugar  dash  of  salt 

2  egg  whites 

Mix  cocoa  and  water.  Add  the  next  5  ingredients,  mixing  well. 
Mix  and  add  the  next  4  ingredients;  do  not  sift.  Drop  cookie  mixture 
by  the  teaspoonful  onto  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350°  for  8  to  10 
minutes.  Remove  from  cookie  sheet  and  cool  on  wire  rack. 

Filling:  Beat  all  ingredients  until  creamy.  Sandwich  2  cookies 
together  with  filling.  Package  individually  in  plastic  sandwich  bags. 
These  freeze  very  well. 

Dottie  Seeley 


111596 


-81 


DESSERTS 

ZUCCHINI-PINEAPPLE  CAKE 

2  c.  grated  zucchini  Va  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  large  eggs  Va  tsp.  salt 

1  Va  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  ground  cinnamon 

1  Tbsp.  vanilla  extract  1  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  c.  vegetable  oil  Va  c.  raisins 

3  c.  all-purpose  flour  1  (15 Va  oz.)  can  crushed 
1  tsp.  baking  soda  pineapple,  drained 

Pineapple-Cream  Cheese  Frosting: 

1  (8  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple,  Va  c.  butter  or  margarine, 

well  drained  softened 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese,  1  (16  oz.)  box  powdered  sugar 

softened 

Drain  zucchini  well,  pressing  between  layers  of  paper  towels.  Set 
aside.  Beat  eggs  at  medium  speed  until  thick  and  pale.  Gradually  add 
sugar,  vanilla  and  oil,  beating  well.  Stir  in  zucchini.  Combine  flour 
and  next  4  ingredients.  Gradually  stir  into  zucchini  mixture.  Stir  in 
pecans,  raisins  and  pineapple.  Pour  into  3  greased  and  floured  8-inch 
round  cake  pans.  Bake  at  325°  for  35  minutes.  Cool  in  pans  on  wire 
racks  10  minutes;  remove  from  pans  and  cool  completely  on  racks. 

Frosting:  Strain  all  of  juice  from  pineapple;  pat  dry.  Beat  cream 
cheese  and  butter  until  fluffy.  Stir  in  pineapple  and  sugar.  Spread 
frosting  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake.  Frosting  is  soft  and  will 
not  adhere  to  sides  of  cake.  Cover  and  refrigerate. 

Note:  Don't  tell  them  it's  zucchini,  and  they'll  never  know. 

Malinda  Connell 


-82- 


S^om^^nUo/ue 


1115-96 


LOW  CALORIE 


BAKED  CATFISH 


V*  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

v4  c.  yellow  cornmeal 

V*  c.  all-purpose  flour 

1  tsp.  paprika 

V2  tsp.  salt 

1/2  tsp.  black  pepper 


1  egg  white 

2  Tbsp.  skim  milk 

4  (4  oz.)  catfish  fillets 
butter  flavored  cooking  spray 
Y2  tsp.  sesame  seed 


Combine  the  first  6  ingredients.  Whisk  egg  white  and  milk.  Dip 
fillets  in  mixture,  then  dredge  in  cornmeal  mixture.  Place  on  foil-lined 
baking  sheet,  coated  with  butter  spray.  Sprinkle  fillets  with  sesame 
seed.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes.  Fish  should  flake  easily  when  test- 
ed with  fork.  Makes  4  servings. 

Each  serving  contains  196  calories  and  5.9  grams  fat. 

B.  J.  Buchert 


BAKED  TROUT 


1  baking  trout,  dressed 
pepper 


melted  low-fat  margarine 
vegetable  cooking  spray 


Line  pan  with  foil;  spray  with  vegetable  cooking  spray.  Wash 
trout  well;  pat  dry  and  pepper  cavity.  Place  on  pan  and  drizzle  with 
a  little  margarine.  Cook  trout  in  a  preheated  oven  at  350°  for  10  min- 
utes per  pound.  Trout  will  flake  when  done.  Low  in  fat. 

Glenda  Morrison 


-83- 


LOW  CALORIE 


BEEF  CASSEROLE  FROM  THE  HEART 
ASSOCIATION 


1  lb.  lean  ground  round  of  beef 
Vs>  c.  diced  celery 
1  Tbsp.  instant  minced  onion 
Viz  c.  uncooked  long  grain  rice 
1  tsp.  chili  powder 


V*  tsp.  pepper 

1  (14  Vz  oz.)  can  tomatoes  and 

liquid 
1  (4  oz.)  can  mushroom  pieces 

and  liquid 


Place  a  plastic  colander  in  a  large  glass  mixing  bowl.  Crumble 
beef  into  small  pieces  and  cover  with  wax  paper.  Microwave  on  High 
for  5  minutes,  stirring  after  2  Vi  minutes.  In  a  3 -quart  casserole,  com- 
bine beef,  celery,  onion,  tomatoes,  rice,  pepper  and  mushrooms.  Cover 
and  microwave  on  High  for  10  minutes,  stirring  halfway  through.  Stir 
well.  Reduce  power  level  of  microwave  to  Medium  (50%)  and  contin- 
ue cooking,  covered,  for  20  more  minutes  or  until  rice  is  soft.  Serves  4. 

Bettie  Whitehead 

CHICKEN  ENCHILADA  CASSEROLE 


2  boneless  chicken  breasts, 

cooked  and  shredded 
1  can  pinto  beans,  drained 
1  large  onion,  chopped 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 

2  sprigs  fresh  cilantro 

1  (4  oz.)  can  chopped  green 

chiles,  drained 
Vfe  c.  instant  dry  milk 


3  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour 
1  Vi  c.  water 

1  Tbsp.  chili  powder 

2  tsp.  cumin 

1  pkg.  6-inch  corn  tortillas 

4  oz.  shredded  low-fat  Monterey 
Jack  cheese 

vegetable  cooking  spray 
Vfe  c.  tomato  sauce 


Coat  a  pan  with  cooking  spray;  heat  to  medium.  Saute  onion 
and  green  pepper  until  tender;  remove  from  heat.  Add  chicken,  green 
chiles,  cilantro  and  pinto  beans. 

In  another  pan,  mix  the  dry  milk  with  flour  and  gradually  add 
water,  stirring  all  the  time.  Cook  over  medium  heat  until  thick  and 
bubbly.  Add  chili  powder,  cumin  and  tomato  sauce;  mix  well.  Com- 
bine this  with  the  chicken  mixture.  Heat  tortillas  as  directed  on 
package. 

Spray  a  12  x  8  x  2-inch  casserole  with  vegetable  cooking  spray. 
Arrange  tortillas  in  bottom  of  casserole.  Layer  with  chicken  mixture 
until  all  used.  Cover  and  bake  for  30  minutes  in  a  350°  oven.  Remove 
cover  and  add  grated  cheese.  Melt  cheese  and  serve. 

Good  with  shredded  lettuce,  topped  with  chopped  tomato,  and 
Mexican  rice. 

Glenda  Morrison 


-84 


LOW  CALORIE 


CHOCOLATE-AMARETTO  CHEESECAKE 

(Low-Fat  Version) 


6  chocolate  wafers,  finely 

crushed 
1  V2  c.  light  process  cream 

cheese 
1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  1  %  low-fat  cottage  cheese 
1/4  c.  plus  2  Tbsp.  unsweetened 

cocoa 


%  c.  all-purpose  flour 
1/4  c.  Amaretto 
1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
V*  tsp.  salt 

1  egg 

2  Tbsp.  semi-sweet  chocolate 
mini  morsels 


Sprinkle  chocolate  wafer  crumbs  in  bottom  of  a  7-inch  spring- 
form  pan.  Set  aside.  Position  knife  blade  in  food  processor  bowl.  Add 
cream  cheese  and  the  next  7  ingredients,  processing  until  smooth.  Add 
egg  and  process  until  just  blended.  Fold  in  chocolate  morsels.  Slowly 
pour  mixture  over  crumbs  in  pan.  Bake  at  300°  for  65  to  70  minutes, 
until  set.  Let  cool  in  pan  on  wire  rack.  Cover  and  chill  at  least  8  hours. 
Remove  sides  of  pan  and  transfer  cheesecake  to  a  serving  platter. 
Yields  12  servings. 

Each  serving  contains  about  200  calories  and  7.9  fat  grams. 

Beverly  Buchert 


CRAN-APPLE  CRUNCH 


Regular  Recipe: 

3  apples,  diced 

1  can  whole  berry  cranberry 

sauce 
1  stick  margarine,  melted 

Reduced  Calorie  Recipe: 

3  apples,  diced 

1  can  whole  berry  cranberry 

sauce 
1A  c.  brown  sugar 

Mix  diced  apples  and  cranberry  sauce  in  bottom  of  Pyrex  baking 
dish  (9  x  13 -inch).  Mix  together  brown  sugar,  oatmeal  and  melted 
margarine  and  spread  on  top.  Bake  at  350°  for  about  45  minutes. 

B.  J.  Buchert 


V2  c.  brown  sugar 

1  72  c.  quick  cooking  oatmeal 

V2  c.  pecans 

V3  c.  flour 


1  c.  quick  cooking  oatmeal 
V2  stick  melted  margarine 
use  no  flour 


111596 


-85- 


LOW  CALORIE 

DARK  CHOCOLATE  BROWNIES 

1  %  c.  sugar  2  (4  oz.)  jars  baby  food  prunes 
%  c.  unsweetened  cocoa  powder  or  %  c.  unsweetened 

Va  c.  all-purpose  flour  applesauce 

Va  c.  whole  wheat  flour  V*  c.  buttermilk 

V*  tsp.  baking  powder  2  tsp.  vanilla 

7  egg  whites  or  1  Vz  c.  Egg  %  c.  chopped  walnuts 

Beaters  powdered  sugar 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Lightly  spray  a  13  x  9  x  2-inch  baking  pan 
with  nonstick  spray.  Set  pan  aside. 

In  large  bowl,  stir  together  sugar,  cocoa,  all-purpose  flour,  whole 
wheat  flour  and  baking  powder;  set  aside.  In  another  large  bowl,  beat 
egg  whites  or  Egg  Beaters  until  foamy.  Slowly  stir  in  prunes  or  apple- 
sauce, buttermilk  and  vanilla.  Add  egg  mixture  to  flour  mixture  and 
beat  with  electric  mixer  until  thoroughly  combined.  Fold  in  walnuts. 
Transfer  batter  to  prepared  pan.  Bake  for  about  30  minutes  or  until 
brownies  just  begin  to  pull  away  from  sides  of  pan.  Do  not  overcook! 
Cool  completely  on  wire  rack.  Lightly  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar 
and  cut  into  bars.  Makes  about  36  brownies. 

Each  brownie  contains  80  calories,  2  g  fat  (18%  calories  from  fat) 
and  0  cholesterol. 

Wanita  Kendrick 

DIABETIC  CAKE 

1  box  raisins  1  tsp.  allspice 

2  c.  water  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

3  eggs  or  egg  substitute,  beaten  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

2/3  c.  oil  1  (16  oz.)  can  unsweetened 

18  pkg.  Sweet 'N  Low  applesauce 

2  c.  self-rising  flour  1  c.  nuts,  chopped  (optional) 

Place  raisins  and  water  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  until  all  the  water 
is  gone.  Mix  the  next  8  ingredients  together.  Add  nuts,  if  desired.  Stir 
in  raisins.  Pour  into  greased  or  sprayed  tube  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for 
1  hour. 

Virginia  R.  Bell 


-86- 


LOW  CALORIE 


FAT-FREE  CARROT  CAKE 


3  c.  grated  carrots 
2  c.  sugar 

1  1/2  c.  applesauce 
8  egg  whites 

2  c.  flour 

Icing: 

2  lb.  powdered  sugar 

8  oz.  fat-free  cream  cheese 


1  tsp.  salt 

2  tsp.  baking  soda 
2  tsp.  cinnamon 
Vi  c.  raisins 


applesauce 
water 


Mix  sugar,  applesauce  and  egg  whites  together.  Sift  together 
flour,  salt,  soda  and  cinnamon.  Add  flour  mixture  to  egg  mixture. 
Fold  in  carrots  and  raisins.  Bake  at  350°  for  55  minutes. 

Icing:  Beat  softened  cream  cheese  until  smooth.  Add  small 
amounts  of  applesauce  and  water  to  blend  well.  Add  powdered  sugar. 
Add  additional  applesauce  and  water  to  desired  texture. 

Cynthia  Bowden 

HERBED  ASPARAGUS  SAUTE 


1  lb.  fresh  asparagus  spears 

vegetable  cooking  spray 

1  tsp.  olive  oil 

1  clove  garlic,  minced 

10  cherry  tomatoes,  halved 


1/2  tsp.  dried  whole  oregano 
Vb  tsp.  dried  whole  thyme 
dash  of  pepper 
2  Tbsp.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 


Snap  offends  of  asparagus.  Remove  scales,  using  a  knife  or  veg- 
etable peeler.  Blanch  asparagus:  cover  in  boiling  water  1  minute. 
Drain  and  rinse  under  cold  water  until  cool;  drain.  Cut  diagonally 
into  1-inch  pieces. 

Coat  a  large  skillet  with  cooking  spray;  add  olive  oil.  Place  over 
medium  heat  until  hot.  Add  asparagus  and  garlic;  saute  2  minutes  or 
just  until  tender.  Add  tomatoes,  oregano,  thyme  and  pepper.  Cook 
1  minute  or  until  thoroughly  heated.  Transfer  to  a  serving  dish  and 
sprinkle  with  cheese.  Serves  4. 

Each  serving  contains  55  calories. 

Elva  Ferguson 


-87- 


LOW  CALORIE 

LITE  AND  EASY  FRUIT  TRIFLE 

1  (13.5  oz.)  frozen  lite  pound  2  (20  oz.)  cans  lite  pie  filling 

cake  (cherry  or  strawberry) 

1  (5.1  oz.)  vanilla  instant  pudding  1  (12  oz.)  container  lite  Cool 

3  c.  skim  milk  Whip 

1  (20  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple  cherries  (for  garnish) 
(undrained) 

Crumble  half  the  cake  into  a  large,  clear  bowl  (like  a  punch 
bowl).  Mix  pudding  with  milk  as  per  package  directions.  Pour  half 
over  the  cake.  Layer  half  the  pineapple,  then  half  the  pie  filling  and 
half  the  Cool  Whip.  Repeat  layers  in  order.  Garnish  with  cherries, 
if  desired.  Refrigerate  several  hours  before  serving. 

Betty  Bridges 


LIGHT  LINGUINE  WITH  CLAM  SAUCE 

2  Tbsp.  olive  oil  1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced  Vz  tsp.  salt 

2  (6  V2  oz.)  cans  chopped  clams  %  tsp.  pepper 

1/2  c.  chopped  parsley  or  2  Tbsp.  8  oz.  linguine,  cooked  and 
dried  parsley  drained 

In  large  skillet,  heat  oil  over  medium  heat.  Add  garlic;  saute  1 
to  2  minutes.  Add  clams  with  juice,  parsley,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Reduce  heat  to  low;  simmer  8  to  10  minutes.  Serve  over  linguine. 
Makes  4  servings. 

Bev  Ambrose 


LINDA'S  GREEN  PEA  CASSEROLE 

2  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  peas,  1A  c.  minced  green  onions 

thawed  V2  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

2  (4  oz.)  cans  mushrooms,  1A  c.  chopped  parsley 

drained  Vb  c.  butter 

Combine  the  first  5  ingredients  and  place  in  oven  baking  bag; 
mix  well.  Add  melted  butter.  Fasten  and  make  six  Vfc-inch  slits  in  bag. 
Bake  in  a  350°  oven  for  20  minutes  or  until  all  cheese  is  melted. 

Bev  Ambrose 


-88- 


LOW  CALORIE 

LOW-FAT  SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

1  large  can  skim  milk  3A  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  c.  mashed  sweet  potato  1  Tbsp.  melted  low-fat  margarine 
4  egg  whites  (stir  to  mix)  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

Y2  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  allspice 

2  tsp.  vanilla  Pam 

V2  c.  whole  wheat  flour 

Lightly  spray  a  deep  9-inch  pie  pan  with  Pam.  Combine  all 
ingredients  in  a  large  bowl  or  processor;  blend  until  smooth.  Pour  in 
pie  pan.  Makes  its  own  crust.  Bake  for  50  to  55  minutes. 

Each  serving  contains  202  calories  and  2  grams  fiber. 

Glenda  B.  Morrison 

MEAT  LOAF 

1  c.  all-bran  cereal  1  Tbsp.  parsley  flakes 

Vz  c.  milk  1  tsp.  Italian  seasoning 

1  V2  lb.  ground  buffalo  %  tsp.  salt 

1  egg  V*  tsp.  pepper 

1  medium  onion,  chopped  1  clove  garlic,  finely  chopped 

(about  Va  c.)  (optional)  or  1A  tsp.  garlic 

1/z  c.  tomato  sauce  powder 

Stir  together  cereal  and  milk  in  large  bowl;  let  stand  about  5  min- 
utes or  until  cereal  is  softened.  Stir  in  remaining  ingredients.  Spread 
mixture  in  loaf  pan  (8  Vi  x  4  Vi  x  2  V£-inch).  Bake,  uncovered,  about 
1  hour  in  preheated  350°  oven. 

If  desired,  top  with  3  low-fat  Mozzarella  cheese  triangles  and 
return  to  oven  about  1  minute  or  until  cheese  is  melted.  Makes  8 
servings. 

Gaye  Burton 


111596 


-89- 


LOW  CALORIE 

MOCK  CHOCOLATE  ECLAIR  PIE 

2  (3  oz.)  pkg.  vanilla  pudding  1  can  chocolate  frosting  (can  use 

3  c.  milk  (can  use  low-fat)  low-fat  or  make  own) 
8  oz.  Cool  Whip  (can  use  lite)                 graham  crackers 

Mix  the  pudding  mixes  with  milk,  then  fold  in  the  Cool  Whip. 
In  a  9  x  13-inch  pan,  layer  graham  crackers,  then  half  of  the  pudding 
mixture,  graham  crackers  and  rest  of  the  pudding  mix,  topped  with 
chocolate  frosting.  (To  ease  spreading,  microwave  frosting  before 
spreading.)  Refrigerate. 

Debbie  Hartley 

NOODLES  WITH  SHI  EDDED  CABBAGE 
CASSEROLE 

72  medium  cabbage,  cut  in  1  (10  %  oz.)  can  condensed 
shreds  the  width  of  the  reduced  fat  cream  of  celery 

noodles  soup 

1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  wide  egg  noodles  1  c.  reserved  pasta  cooking 

Vs>  medium  onion,  chopped  water 

1/2  red  or  green  pepper,  chopped  1  c.  fat-free  shredded  Cheddar 

1  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  cheese 

garlic  croutons 

In  a  large  pot,  bring  3  quarts  of  water  to  a  rapid  boil;  add  1  tea- 
spoon salt.  Add  shredded  cabbage  to  pot  and  return  to  a  boil.  Add 
noodles.  Stir  to  combine  and  boil  for  6  to  7  minutes  or  until  noodles 
and  cabbage  are  cooked.  Reserve  2  cups  of  cooking  water;  drain  noo- 
dles and  cabbage. 

Place  noodles  and  cabbage  in  ovenproof  greased  casserole.  Put 
chopped  onions  and  chopped  peppers  in  a  4-cup  microwave-safe  glass 
cup.  Add  butter;  cover  with  plastic  wrap,  vented  on  one  side,  and 
microwave  on  High  for  2  to  3  minutes.  Add  cream  of  celery  soup  and 
1  cup  of  reserved  pasta  water.  Stir  and  heat  on  High  for  2  minutes. 
Sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top  of  noodle-cabbage  mixture;  pour  the 
soup  mixture  over  all  and  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  combine 
ingredients. 

Lightly  tent  casserole  with  foil  and  bake  in  a  350°  oven  for  20 
minutes.  Remove  foil  and  add  croutons;  continue  to  bake  for  10  min- 
utes or  until  casserole  is  bubbly  and  slightly  golden  on  top.  Serve  with 
a  light  salad  or  stewed  tomatoes.  Makes  6  servings. 

Elva  Ferguson 


-90- 


LOW  CALORIE 

OVEN  FRIED  FISH 

1  lb.  fish  fillets  V2  c.  dry  bread  crumbs 

V2  c.  skim  milk  Vb  c.  melted  low-fat  margarine 

Cut  fish  into  serving  size.  Dip  fish  in  skim  milk,  then  in  bread 
crumbs.  Line  a  baking  sheet  with  foil;  spray  with  vegetable  cooking 
spray.  Place  breaded  fish  on  foil;  drizzle  with  melted  margarine.  Bake 
at  500°  for  about  10  minutes  or  until  fish  flakes.  Makes  4  low-fat 
servings. 

Glenda  Morrison 

OVEN  FRIED  GREEN  TOMATOES 

Vb  c.  cornmeal  4  medium  green  tomatoes,  cut 

Vb  c.  all-purpose  flour  into  1/2-inch  slices 

%  tsp.  salt  vegetable  cooking  spray 

Va  tsp.  pepper  1  Tbsp.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Combine  the  first  4  ingredients  in  a  shallow  dish;  set  aside.  Dip 
tomato  slices  in  water;  dredge  in  cornmeal  mixture.  Place  tomato 
slices  on  a  baking  sheet  coated  with  cooking  spray.  Coat  each  slice 
with  cooking  spray.  Bake  at  400°  for  15  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  Par- 
mesan cheese  and  bake  an  additional  5  minutes  or  until  golden.  Serve 
immediately.  Yields  8  servings. 

Each  2-slice  serving  contains  64  calories  and  1.1  grams  fat. 

Recipe  from  Southern  Living. 

Glenda  Morrison 


111596 


-91  - 


LOW  CALORIE 


POT  ROAST  WITH  DILLED  CARROT  GRAVY 


1  (4  lb.)  lean  boneless  rump  roast 
Va  tsp.  pepper 
vegetable  cooking  spray 
1  small  onion,  sliced 
1  tsp.  beef  flavored  bouillon 
granules 


1  c.  hot  water 

2  medium  carrots,  scraped  and 
sliced 

Va,  c.  low-fat  sour  cream 
Va  tsp.  dried  dill  weed 


Trim  excess  fat  from  roast.  Rub  pepper  over  entire  surface  of 
meat.  Coat  a  Dutch  oven  with  cooking  spray.  Place  over  medium- 
high  heat  until  hot.  Add  roast;  cook  until  browned  on  all  sides.  Place 
onion  slices  on  roast.  Combine  bouillon  granules  and  water;  pour  over 
roast.  Cover  and  bake  at  350°  for  2  hours.  Add  carrots;  cover  and  cook 
an  additional  30  minutes. 

Transfer  roast  to  a  warm  serving  platter.  Skim  off  fat  from  liquid 
in  Dutch  oven.  Place  carrots  and  lA  cup  of  cooking  liquid  in  container 
of  electric  blender;  process  until  smooth.  Add  sour  cream  and  dill 
weed;  process  until  combined.  Serve  dilled  carrot  gravy  with  roast. 
Yields  10  servings. 

Each  serving  contains  191  calories. 

Elva  Ferguson 


-92- 


LOW  CALORIE 

RUSTIC  LASAGNA 

(Low-Fat  Vegetable  Version) 

9  lasagna  noodles  1  c.  shredded  carrots 

2  (8  oz.)  cans  low  sodium  tomato  1  (15  to  16  oz.)  container 

sauce  part-skim  Ricotta  cheese 

1  clove  garlic,  minced  V*  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

1  tsp.  fresh  oregano  or  1A  tsn.  1  c.  shredded  part-skim 

dried  oregano  Mozzarella  cheese 
1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  chopped 

broccoli,  thawed  and  drained 

of  excess  liquid 

Cook  lasagna  noodles  according  to  package  directions;  do  not 
add  salt.  While  noodles  cook,  preheat  oven  to  350°.  Spray  a  13  x 
9-inch  baking  dish  with  vegetable  cooking  spray.  Set  aside. 

In  a  small  bowl,  combine  tomato  sauce,  garlic  and  oregano;  mix 
well.  In  a  medium  bowl,  mix  broccoli,  carrots,  Ricotta  and  Parmesan. 
Drain  noodles  in  a  colander.  Spread  lA  cup  of  tomato  sauce  in  bottom 
of  dish.  Place  three  noodles  on  top  of  sauce.  Spread  Vi  of  broccoli  over 
noodles.  Spoon  Vi  cup  tomato  sauce  over  broccoli.  Place  three  noodles 
on  top.  Spread  remaining  broccoli  mix  and  top  with  Vi  cup  of  tomato 
sauce.  Top  with  remaining  noodles  and  tomato  sauce;  sprinkle 
Mozzarella  over  top.  Bake  until  bubbling,  about  45  minutes.  Cool  15 
minutes.  Cut  into  squares  and  serve.  Serves  8. 

Contains  268  calories  and  8  grams  fat. 

Beverly  Buchert 


111596 


-93- 


LOW  CALORIE 

SOUTHERN  OVEN  "FRIED"  CHICKEN 

V*  c.  skim  buttermilk  1A  tsp.  salt 

2  to  3  drops  hot  red  pepper  Vs  tsp.  pepper 

sauce  1  (1  lb.  14  oz.)  chicken,  skinned 

%  oz.  corn  flakes,  crushed  and  quartered 

3  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour  1  Tbsp.  plus  1  tsp.  canola  oil 

Preheat  oven  to  400°.  Spray  large  baking  sheet  with  nonstick 
cooking  spray.  In  a  large  shallow  bowl,  combine  buttermilk  and  red 
pepper  sauce.  On  sheet  of  wax  paper,  combine  corn  flakes,  flour,  salt 
and  pepper.  Dip  chicken  pieces  in  buttermilk  mixture;  dredge,  coating 
completely,  with  corn  flake  mixture.  Arrange  chicken  on  prepared 
baking  sheet;  drizzle  evenly  with  oil.  Bake  for  30  minutes.  Turn  pieces 
over  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes  longer,  until  cooked  through.  Makes 

4  low-fat  servings. 

Each  serving  contains:  229  calories,  23  g  protein,  10  g  fat,  11  g 
carbohydrate,  295  mg  sodium,  64  mg  cholesterol  and  0  dietary  fiber. 

Wanita  Kendrick 


SPINACH,  NINETIES  STYLE 

2  pkg.  frozen  chopped  spinach,  1  pkg.  onion  soup  mix 

defrosted  and  drained  4  Tbsp.  Parmesan  cheese,  grated 

1  c.  sour  cream  (can  be  nonfat) 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Bake  in  a  covered  casserole  at  350°  for 
30  minutes.  Serves  6.  Low  in  fat  and  calories. 

Virginia  Palmer 


-94- 


LOW  CALORIE 


TANGY  LEMON  POUND  CAKE 

(Low-Fat) 


nonstick  cooking  spray 

3  c.  unsifted  cake  flour  plus 

additional  for  dusting 
1  V2  tsp.  baking  powder 
V2  tsp.  salt 
V4  tsp.  baking  soda 
V4  c.  unsalted  butter 
V*  c.  canola  or  vegetable  oil 

Glaze  (Optional): 
V2  c.  confectioners  sugar 


1  3A  c.  granulated  sugar 

%  c.  reduced  cholesterol  eggs 

1  Tbsp.  grated  lemon  zest 

(colored  part  of  peel) 
1  Tbsp.  fresh  lemon  juice 
1  (8  oz.)  container  low-fat  lemon 

yogurt 


2  to  3  tsp.  fresh  lemon  juice 


Preheat  oven  to  350°.  With  cooking  spray,  grease  10-inch  tube 
pan;  dust  with  flour.  In  medium  bowl,  mix  3  cups  flour,  the  baking 
powder,  salt  and  baking  soda.  In  large  bowl  of  mixer,  on  high,  beat 
butter,  oil  and  sugar  for  2  minutes  or  until  fluffy.  Beat  in  reduced 
cholesterol  eggs,  lemon  zest  and  juice;  beat  1  minute  or  until  well 
blended.  Add  flour  mixture  (in  fourths)  alternately  with  yogurt  (in 
thirds),  beginning  and  ending  with  flour. 

Pour  batter  into  prepared  pan;  bake  for  45  minutes  or  until  tester 
inserted  in  cake  comes  out  clean.  Cool  in  pan  on  wire  rack  15  minutes. 
Invert  onto  rack  and  remove  pan.  Let  stand  before  slicing  or  glazing. 

Glaze:  In  small  bowl,  mix  confectioners  sugar  and  lemon  juice 
until  well  blended  and  smooth;  drizzle  over  cake.  Makes  16  servings. 

Each  serving  (without  glaze)  contains  250  calories,  9  grams  fat, 
9  mg  cholesterol  and  225  mg  sodium. 

Nancy  Wilson 


-95- 


LOW  CALORIE 


VEGETABLE  BARS 


2  pkg.  crescent  rolls 

2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  light  cream  cheese, 

softened 
V2  c.  light  mayonnaise 
1  envelope  Ranch  dressing 


1  c.  each,  chopped  fine:  green  or 
red  pepper,  green  onions, 
carrots,  mushrooms, 
cauliflower,  broccoli,  Cheddar 
cheese  and  tomatoes,  drained 
of  juice 


Open  crescent  rolls  and  cover  bottom  of  large  cookie  sheet  or  2 
small  cookie  sheets.  Flatten  into  a  crust  and  press  out  perforations. 
Bake  at  350°  for  7  to  8  minutes.  Cool. 

Mix  the  cream  cheese,  mayonnaise  and  dressing  mix.  Spread 
over  baked  cool  crust.  Sprinkle  vegetables  and  cheese  over  top,  ending 
with  cheese.  Cover  with  Saran  Wrap  and  press  down.  Refrigerate 
overnight.  Cut  into  squares. 

Ann  Harris 


-96- 


<Main,  Ql&Aeb 


v^ 


1115-96 


MAIN  DISHES 


BACON  AND  EGG  SPAGHETTI 

1  lb.  spaghetti  or  linguine  4  eggs,  beaten 

9  or  10  slices  bacon,  cut  into  Vz  c.  Parmesan  cheese,  freshly 
1-inch  squares  grated 

1  large  clove  garlic,  minced  Vz  c.  Romano  cheese,  freshly 
V*  c.  dry  vermouth,  white  wine  or  grated 

chicken  broth  ground  pepper 

Bring  5  quarts  of  water  to  boil.  Add  pasta  and  cook,  uncovered, 
until  pasta  is  just  tender  to  bite  (8  to  10  minutes).  Drain  well  and 
return  to  pan. 

Meanwhile,  in  a  12-inch  skillet,  stir  bacon  over  medium  heat 
until  browned.  Remove  all  but  lA  cup  of  fat.  Add  garlic  and  wine; 
bring  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  heat  and  pour  over  pasta,  mixing  gently 
with  2  forks.  Add  beaten  eggs,  mixing  to  coat  pasta.  Add  cheeses  and 
pepper;  mix  well.  The  heat  of  the  pasta  should  cook  the  eggs.  If 
desired,  heat  on  low  heat,  stirring,  until  eggs  are  set. 

This  tasty  dish  is  appealing  in  its  simplicity,  and  it  goes  together 
at  the  last  minute  with  ingredients  that  most  of  us  have  on  hand. 
Serves  4  to  6. 

Shirley  Oates 

BAKED  CHICKEN  SALAD 

6  cooked  chicken  breasts  1  tsp.  salt  (optional) 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup  Vi  tsp.  pepper 

6  hard-cooked  eggs  2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

2  c.  celery,  diced  medium  %  c.  mayonnaise 

4  tsp.  minced  onion  2  c.  crushed  potato  chips 
1  pkg.  slivered  almonds 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Mix  soup,  salt,  pepper,  mayonnaise  and 
juice.  Cut  chicken  into  bite  size  pieces  and  mix  with  celery,  onion  and 
almonds.  Alternate  layers  of  soup  mixture,  chicken  mixture  and  sliced 
eggs.  Top  with  the  crushed  chips.  (If  dish  is  cold,  heat  for  15  to  20 
minutes  before  putting  crushed  chips  on  top.)  Heat  only  enough  to  be 
sure  dish  is  hot  through.  This  is  excellent  for  a  buffet  supper,  since 
it  can  be  prepared  the  day  before.  Serves  12. 

Eleanor  Watts 


97- 


MAIN  DISHES 


BREAKFAST  CASSEROLE 


3  English  muffins,  split 
2  Tbsp.  butter,  softened 
1  lb.  bulk  pork  sausage 
1  can  chopped  green  chilies, 
drained 


3  c.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 
1 V*  c.  sour  cream  (low-fat  is 

okay) 
12  eggs,  beaten 


Spread  the  cut  side  of  each  English  muffin  with  1  teaspoon  of 
butter  and  place  the  buttered  side  down  in  a  lightly  greased  13  x  9  x 
2-inch  baking  dish.  Cook  sausage  in  a  skillet  until  done;  stir  it  until 
it  crumbles  into  small  pieces.  Drain. 

Layer  the  English  muffins  with  Vi  of  all  amounts  (sausage,  chilies 
and  cheese).  Combine  sour  cream  and  eggs;  pour  over  casserole.  Re- 
peat with  what  is  left  of  sausage,  chilies  and  cheese.  Cover  with  foil 
and  refrigerate  for  8  hours,  then  remove  from  the  refrigerator  and  let 
it  set  for  30  minutes.  Bake,  uncovered,  at  350°  for  35  to  40  minutes. 

Jill  Jones 

BROCCOLI-CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 


1  (3  lb.)  broiler  or  fryer  or 

chicken  breasts 
1  lb.  fresh  broccoli 
1  (10  %  oz.)  can  cream  of 

chicken  soup  (undiluted) 
1/2  c.  mayonnaise 


V2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

V2  c.  fine  dry  bread  crumbs 

2  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine, 

melted 
V*  c.  (1  oz.)  shredded  sharp 

Cheddar  cheese 


Place  chicken  in  Dutch  oven.  Cover  with  water  and  bring  to  a 
boil.  Cover  and  reduce  heat.  Simmer  for  1  hour  or  until  tender. 
Remove  and  let  cool.  Bone  chicken  and  chop.  Separate  broccoli  into 
spears.  Steam  or  cook  broccoli  in  boiling  water  until  crisp-tender 
(about  10  minutes);  drain  and  set  aside. 

Arrange  broccoli  in  a  lightly  greased  12  x  8  x  2-inch  baking  dish. 
Top  with  chicken  and  soup  mixture.  Combine  bread  crumbs  and  but- 
ter, stirring  well.  Sprinkle  over  top  of  casserole.  Bake  at  350°  for  20 
minutes.  Sprinkle  cheese  over  top  of  casserole.  Return  to  oven  for  5 
minutes  or  until  cheese  melts.  Serves  8. 

George  and  Wanda  Tyner 


-98- 


MAIN  DISHES 

BURRITO 

2  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  V2  c.  chopped  green  onions 

1  (6  oz.)  chopped  black  olives  1  (18  oz.)  pkg.  10-inch  flour 

1  (4  oz.)  can  chopped  green  tortillas 
chilies 

Mix  the  first  4  ingredients  and  spread  on  each  tortilla.  Roll  up 
each  tortilla  and  chill.  To  serve,  slice.  May  be  frozen. 

Libby  Holt 

CALIFORNIA  CASSEROLE 

1  lb.  ground  beef  3  Tbsp.  chili  powder 

1  (2  V*  oz.)  can  chopped  ripe  Va  lb.  grated  American  cheese 

olives  8  oz.  cooked  noodles 

1  (3  oz.)  can  mushrooms  1  (1 1  oz.)  can  corn 

1  (4  oz.)  can  tomatoes  or  tomato  onion  (as  desired) 

sauce 

Brown  the  beef.  Add  the  onion,  olives,  mushrooms,  tomatoes, 
corn,  chili  powder  and  cheese.  Heat  through.  Put  into  casserole  with 
noodles.  (Can  add  crushed  potato  chips  or  bread  crumbs  on  top.) 
Bake  at  375°  for  30  to  40  minutes.  Freezes  well. 

Hud  Clark 

CHEESE  AND  GREEN  CHILE  PIE 

1  lb.  Monterey  Jack  cheese,  1  (5  oz.)  can  evaporated  milk 

grated  2  (4  oz.)  cans  chopped  green 

1  lb.  Longhorn  cheese,  grated  chiles 
6  eggs,  lightly  beaten 

Combine  the  cheeses,  eggs  and  milk.  Line  a  9  x  13-inch  Pyrex 
dish  with  the  chiles  and  cover  with  the  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  40 
minutes.  Cool,  cut  into  bite  size  squares  and  serve.  This  serves  15  peo- 
ple as  an  appetizer.  Cut  into  larger  pieces  for  a  first  course,  or  use  as 
a  luncheon  dish.  Serves  6  to  8  for  luncheon.  It  may  be  frozen  and 
reheated. 

Elva  Ferguson 


111596 


-99- 


MAIN  PISHES 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

6  slices  toasted  white  bread  2  V*  c.  milk 

1/4  c.  oleo  or  butter  1  tsp.  salt 

2  V2  c.  diced  American  cheese  V*  tsp.  dry  mustard 

3  slightly  beaten  eggs 

Butter  the  toast;  quarter  each  slice.  Alternate  layers  of  toast  and 
cheese  in  1  Vi-quart  baking  dish  with  cheese  on  top  layer.  Combine 
other  ingredients  and  pour  over  layers.  Bake  in  a  325°  oven  for  30  to 
45  minutes  or  until  a  knife  comes  out  clean.  Makes  6  servings. 

Linda  Magruder 

CHICKEN  AND  DUMPLINGS 

2  or  3  chicken  breasts  or  1  whole  pepper  to  taste 
fryer  1  c.  all-purpose  flour 

3  V'2  qt.  water  1  Tbsp.  solid  shortening 

3  chicken  bouillon  cubes  1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  peas 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup  V2  c.  chopped  onions  or  scallions 

1  tsp.  salt  (optional) 

Combine  chicken,  soup,  water,  bouillon  cubes,  salt  and  pepper 
in  large  kettle.  Bring  to  boil  and  simmer  until  chicken  is  tender.  Re- 
move chicken;  debone  and  cut  into  Vi-inch  cubes.  Set  aside. 
Remove  Vi  cup  broth  from  stock  and  set  aside. 

Cut  flour  and  shortening  with  pastry  blender  until  coarse  like 
cornmeal.  Add  gradually  the  Vi  cup  of  reserved  broth  or  a  little  more 
if  needed.  Turn  out  onto  a  large  floured  surface  and  knead  slightly, 
adding  more  flour  as  necessary.  Roll  dough  to  Vi6-inch  thick.  Cut  into 
1-inch  wide  strips,  then  cut  the  strips  2  inches  long. 

Bring  stock  pot  of  broth  back  to  a  boil  and  add  peas  and  onions. 
Quickly  add  dumplings,  one  at  a  time.  Stir  well  and  reduce  heat  to 
medium.  Cook  at  a  simmer  or  slow  boil  for  about  10  to  15  minutes. 
Remove  from  heat  and  place  chicken  cubes  on  top.  Cover  and  let  stand 
a  few  minutes  for  flavors  to  blend.  Stir  before  serving.  Makes  6  gener- 
ous servings. 

Esty  Vollrath 


-100- 


MAIN   DISHES 


CHICKEN  ASPARAGUS  CASSEROLE 


2  (15  oz.)  cans  asparagus, 
drained 

%  c.  sliced  almonds,  toasted 

3  V2  c.  diced,  cooked  chicken 

1  (10  %  oz.}  can  cream  of  celery 
soup  (undiluted) 


%  c.  mayonnaise 
72  c.  Chablis  or  other  dry  wine 
1  (5.33  oz.)  can  evaporated  milk 
1  (8  oz.)  can  sliced  water 

chestnuts,  drained 
Parmesan  cheese 


Layer  asparagus,  water  chestnuts,  almonds  and  chicken  in  a 
lightly  greased  12  x  8  x  2-inch  baking  dish.  Combine  the  next  4  ingre- 
dients, mixing  well.  Spoon  mixture  over  chicken  mixture  and  sprinkle 
with  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  Yields  6 
servings. 

Martha  Tankersley 
CHICKEN  AND  BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 


1  %  c.  water 
V2  c.  rice 

1  lb.  chicken  breast  (bite  size) 

2  Tbsp.  oil 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 


V2  c.  milk 

2  Tbsp.  Dijon  mustard 

Viz  c.  grated  cheese 

8  oz.  broccoli,  cut  into  pieces 


Bring  water  to  boil  in  a  saucepan.  Stir  in  rice.  Cover  and  cook 
for  18  minutes  or  until  water  is  absorbed.  Cook  broccoli  until  tender. 
Cook  and  stir  chicken  in  hot  oil  in  skillet  until  lightly  browned.  Heat 
soup  and  milk  in  saucepan.  Add  mustard  and  cheese  until  melted. 
Combine  soup  mixture,  chicken  and  broccoli.  Spread  rice  in  flat  7  Vi 
x  11 -inch  casserole  dish.  Pour  soup  mixture  over  top  of  rice.  Bake, 
covered,  in  oven  at  350°  for  Vi  hour  or  until  hot. 

Pat  Walker 


-  101  - 


MAIN  DISHES 


CHICKEN  AND  HAM  SUPREME 


6  whole  chicken  breasts,  boned 

and  halved 
V*  c.  margarine 
2  c.  chopped  onions 
1/4  c.  cornstarch 
V2  tsp.  salt 
V*  tsp.  pepper 
1  c.  dry  sherry 


4  c.  milk 

3  c.  water 

12  chicken  flavored  bouillon 

cubes 
1  lb.  8  oz.  spaghetti,  cooked  8 

minutes  and  drained 
12  slices  Swiss  cheese 
12  slices  boiled  ham 


Brown  chicken,  a  few  pieces  at  a  time,  in  margarine  over  medium 
heat  for  15  minutes  or  until  tender.  Remove  chicken  from  pan.  Add 
onions;  cook  5  minutes.  Mix  cornstarch,  salt  and  pepper.  Gradually 
stir  in  sherry  until  smooth.  Add  to  onion  with  the  next  3  ingredients. 
Stirring  constantly,  bring  to  boil  over  medium  heat;  boil  1  minute. 

Grease  a  6-quart  shallow  pan  or  two  3 -quart  casseroles.  Add 
spaghetti;  pour  on  sauce.  Toss.  Roll  cheese  inside  ham.  Arrange  with 
chicken  over  spaghetti.  Bake,  tightly  covered,  in  a  325°  oven  for  45 
to  60  minutes  or  until  hot.  Makes  12  servings. 

Can  be  prepared  the  day  before,  but  do  not  bake.  Cover  and 
refrigerate.  When  ready  to  serve,  bake  for  1  V2  to  1  3A  hours. 

Helen  Twine 


-102- 


MAIN  DISHES 


CHICKEN  CACCIATORE 


1  fryer,  cut  up,  and  2  or  3  extra 
breasts  (if  needed) 

1  lb.  Italian  sausage 

2  Tbsp.  olive  oil 

2  large  onions,  cut  up 
1  green  pepper,  cut  up 
1  yellow  pepper,  cut  up 
1  red  pepper,  cut  up 
Vz  lb.  fresh  mushrooms,  sliced 
1  (28  oz.)  can  concentrated 
crushed  tomatoes 


1  (26  oz.)  can  spaghetti  sauce 
1  (6  oz.)  can  tomato  paste,  mixed 

with  V2  c.  water 
Vz  tsp.  oregano 
1/2  tsp.  sweet  basil 
V2  tsp.  salt 
pepper  to  taste 
a  little  sugar  or  baking  soda 
V2  to  %  c.  Parmesan  cheese 


Saute  chicken  until  brown  and  thoroughly  cooked;  set  aside.  Boil 
Italian  sausage  until  thoroughly  cooked;  set  aside.  Drain  off  chicken 
drippings;  in  that  skillet  with  olive  oil,  saute  onions,  green,  red  and  yel- 
low peppers  and  mushrooms.  Add  crushed  tomatoes,  spaghetti  sauce, 
tomato  paste,  water,  oregano,  sweet  basil,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer 
and  stir  until  flavors  blend  and  sauce  thickens.  Add  sugar  or  baking 
soda  to  reduce  acidity.  Put  chicken  pieces  and  sliced  Italian  sausage 
into  the  sauce;  let  simmer  a  few  minutes  longer.  Serve  on  a  large  plat- 
ter, topped  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Accompany  with  a  bowl  of  spa- 
ghetti. Serves  6  to  8  happy  people. 

Esty  Vollrath 

CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 


2  cans  cream  of  chicken  or 
mushroom  soup 

1  c.  mayonnaise 
1A  to  Vb  c.  milk 

2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

1  V2  tsp.  curry  powder 


3  cans  cut  up  asparagus  or  3  (10 

oz.)  pkg.  frozen  broccoli 
1  c.  shredded  sharp  cheese 
1  can  water  chestnuts,  sliced 
7  to  8  chicken  breasts,  cooked 
and  cut  up  or  shredded 


Combine  soup,  mayonnaise,  lemon  juice  and  curry  powder.  Add 
milk  to  make  thin  sauce.  Add  water  chestnuts.  Put  asparagus  or  broc- 
coli in  2-quart  baking  dish  (13  x  9-inch).  Arrange  and  add  cut  up, 
cooked  chicken  on  top  of  vegetable.  Pour  sauce  over  chicken;  sprinkle 
with  cheese.  Bake,  uncovered,  in  a  350°  oven  for  30  minutes  or  until 
hot  and  bubbly. 

Judy  Garner 


111596 


-103- 


MAIN  DISHES 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 


2  c.  cooked  chicken,  diced 
Vi  c.  chopped  onion 
V2  c.  diced  celery 
1  (4  oz.)  can  sliced  water 
chestnuts 


1  (4  oz.)  can  sliced  mushrooms 
1  (6  oz.)  can  chow  mein  noodles 
1  (10  1A  oz.)  can  mushroom  soup 
1  c.  sour  cream 


Combine  chicken,  celery,  onion,  chestnuts,  mushrooms  and  half 
of  noodles.  Mix  mushroom  soup  and  sour  cream.  Add  to  dry  ingredi- 
ents. Place  in  2-quart  casserole  and  bake  at  350°  until  hot.  Remove 
from  oven  and  sprinkle  with  remaining  noodles.  Serve  hot. 

Margaret  Yerby 

CHICKEN  ENCHILADAS 


1  to  2  pkg.  boneless  chicken 
breasts  (to  equal  3  lb.) 

Filling: 

2  Tbsp.  vegetable  oil 
1  c.  onion,  chopped 

1  clove  garlic,  crushed 
1  (10  oz.)  can  tomato  puree 

To  Assemble: 
12  flour  tortillas 


1  V2  c.  whipping  cream 

2  tsp.  chicken  bouillon  granules 


4  whole  canned  green  chilies, 
seeded  and  chopped 

1  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  cooked  chicken,  diced 


V2  lb.  Monterey  Jack  jalapeno 
cheese,  grated 


Bake  chicken  in  a  425°  oven  for  40  minutes  or  until  done.  Dice 
chicken  or  pull  apart,  shredding  the  meat.  In  a  2-quart  dish,  heat 
cream  and  chicken  bouillon  granules  on  High  (100%)  for  2  to  3  min- 
utes in  microwave,  stirring  once  to  help  dissolve  granules.  Set  aside. 

Filling:  Place  oil,  onion  and  garlic  in  a  4-cup  measure;  saute  on 
High  (100%)  for  3  minutes.  Add  tomato  puree,  chilies,  salt  and  chick- 
en (diced).  Microwave  on  High  (100%)  for  4  minutes. 

To  Assemble:  Wrap  tortillas  in  a  wet  paper  towel  and  microwave 
on  High  (100%)  45  seconds.  Dip  each  tortilla  in  bouillon-cream  mix- 
ture. Fill  generously  with  chicken  mixture  and  roll  up,  placing  seam 
side  down  in  a  7  x  11 -inch  baking  dish.  Pour  remaining  cream  mixture 
over  tortillas.  Top  with  grated  cheese.  Microwave  on  High  (100%)  for 
8  minutes. 

Laura  Vollrath 


-104- 


MAIN  DISHES 


CHICKEN  LASAGNA  FLORENTINE 


6  lasagna  noodles  (uncooked) 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  chopped 
spinach,  thawed 

2  c.  chopped,  cooked  chicken 
2  c.  (8  oz.)  shredded  Cheddar 

cheese 
Va  c.  finely  chopped  onion 
1/4  to  Vz  tsp.  ground  nutmeg 

1  Tbsp.  cornstarch 
%  tsp.  salt 

v4  tsp.  pepper 

Butter-Pecan  Topping: 

2  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 


1  Tbsp.  soy  sauce 

1  (10  %  oz.)  can  cream  of 

mushroom  soup  (undiluted) 
1  (8  oz.)  carton  sour  cream 
1  (4.5  oz.)  jar  sliced  mushrooms, 

drained 
1/3  c.  mayonnaise  or  salad 

dressing 
1  c.  (4  oz.)  freshly  grated 

Parmesan  cheese 


1  c.  chopped  pecans 


Butter-Pecan  Topping:  Melt  butter  in  skillet  over  medium  heat. 
Add  pecans  and  cook  3  minutes.  Cool  completely. 

Cook  noodles;  drain  and  set  aside.  Drain  spinach  well,  pressing 
between  layers  of  paper  towels.  Combine  spinach,  chicken  and  the 
next  11  ingredients  in  large  bowl;  stir  well. 

Arrange  2  noodles  in  a  lightly  greased  11x7x1  ^-inch  baking 
dish.  Spread  half  of  chicken  mixture  over  noodles.  Repeat  procedure 
with  remaining  noodles  and  chicken  mixture.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan 
cheese  and  Butter-Pecan  Topping.  Bake,  covered,  at  350°  for  55  to  60 
minutes  or  until  hot  and  bubbly.  Let  stand  15  minutes  before  cutting. 
Serves  8. 


Billie  Page 


CHICKEN  SPECTACULAR 


3  c.  cooked  chicken,  cut  up  (all 
breast) 

1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  Uncle  Ben's  long 
grain  and  wild  rice 

2  pkg.  frozen  French-style  green 
beans,  cooked  and  drained 


1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 

1  (4  oz.)  jar  chopped  pimentos 

1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts 

1  c.  mayonnaise 

1  onion,  diced 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Mix  all  ingredients  together;  put  in  9  x  13-inch  pan.  Bake  at  350° 
for  30  minutes.  Serves  10. 

Helen  C.  Gray 


-  105- 


MAIN  DISHES 

CHICKEN  TETRAZZINI 

2  to  3  chicken  breasts,  cooked  2  Tbsp.  oil 

and  cut  into  pieces  2  tsp.  garlic  powder 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  2  tsp.  onion  powder 

Va  c.  white  wine  Va  lb.  spaghetti  or  linguine 

1/2  can  milk  Parmesan  cheese 

2  Tbsp.  parsley  flakes 

Heat  oil.  Add  garlic,  onion  and  parsley;  cook  until  onion  is  light- 
ly golden.  Add  milk  and  soup;  continue  cooking  until  mixture  is  thin. 
Add  wine  and  chicken,  stirring  to  mix  well. 

Meanwhile,  cook  spaghetti  (broken)  according  to  package  direc- 
tions; drain  and  mix  with  chicken  mixture.  Pour  into  casserole  and 
sprinkle  cheese  over  top.  Bake  at  400°  for  30  minutes.  Enjoy! 

Nancy  Hubbard  and 

Her  Sister,  Jean  DiMichele 

CHILI 

1  lb.  round  or  lean  ground  chuck  1  tsp.  oregano 

1  Tbsp.  vegetable  oil  2  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  chopped  onion  1  tsp.  sugar 

1  c.  chopped  green  bell  pepper  Ve  tsp.  cayenne  pepper 

1  large  clove  garlic  Ve  tsp.  paprika 

2  (28  oz.)  cans  whole  tomatoes,  1  tsp.  cumin 

chopped  1  (15  oz.)  can  kidney  or  pinto 

2  (8  oz.)  cans  tomato  sauce  beans 

1  Tbsp.  chili  powder  hot  cooked  rice 
grated  cheese 

In  a  5 -quart  Dutch  oven,  brown  beef;  drain  and  discard  fat.  In 
a  skillet,  saute  onion,  bell  pepper  and  garlic  in  oil.  Stir  vegetables  and 
remaining  ingredients  into  beef.  Cook  on  low  heat  3  hours,  covered, 
stirring  occasionally.  Adjust  seasonings.  Serve  over  rice  and  top  with 
grated  cheese.  Yields  8  servings. 

Note:  I  add  some  Tabasco  sauce  until  I  think  the  chili  is  hot 
enough.  Another  option  is  to  add  a  jalapeno  pepper  to  the  vegetables 
at  the  beginning. 

I  also  like  to  have  hot  tamales  with  the  chili. 

Fred  Garner 


-106- 


MAIN  DISHES 

CHILI  CHEESE  SQUARES 

1  (4  oz.)  can  green  chiles,  %  c.  milk 
drained  and  chopped  4  eggs 

2  c.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese  (8  Vfe  tsp.  red  pepper  sauce  (if 
oz.)  desired) 

1  c.  Bisquick  baking  mix 

Heat  oven  to  375°.  Grease  square  pan  (9  x  9  x  2-inch).  Sprinkle 
chiles  and  cheese  in  pan.  Beat  remaining  ingredients  until  smooth 
(about  1  minute).  Pour  into  pan.  Bake  until  golden  brown  and  knife 
inserted  in  center  comes  out  clean,  about  30  minutes.  Let  stand  about 
10  minutes  before  cutting.  Serve  hot. 

Blanche  Cox 

CHILI  CON  CARNE 

1  Va  to  2  lb.  ground  turkey  or  approximately  1  c.  water 

beef  1  large  or  2  medium  onions 

3  cans  tomato  soup  some  minced  garlic 

1  large  can  kidney  beans  4  to  6  Tbsp.  chili  powder 

Fry  meat,  onions  and  garlic;  drain  fat  from  meat.  In  a  large  pot, 
mix  soup,  beans  and  water  (add  slowly)  and  chili  powder;  mix  well. 
Add  meat.  Simmer  for  30  minutes,  covered,  then  simmer  for  30  min- 
utes, uncovered.  Ready  to  serve. 

This  is  a  very  spicy  recipe.  May  add  Tabasco  sauce,  if  desired. 
Serve  with  crackers. 

Note:  I  usually  cook  this  in  a  slow  cooker  all  day.  This  dish  tastes 
great  rewarmed. 

Bill  and  Connee  Walsh 


-  107- 


MAIN  DISHES 

CHILAQUILES 

(Meatless  Dish) 

2  Tbsp.  water  1  c.  shredded  Monterey  Jack  or 
1  (16  oz.)  jar  salsa  (medium  or  Cheddar  cheese 

mild)  1/2  c.  sliced  black  olives,  drained 

12  (6-inch)  tortillas,  torn  in  2  c.  diced  zucchini 

quarters  1  can  black  beans,  drained 

Toppings  (If  Desired): 

sour  cream  tomatoes 

shredded  lettuce 

Use  a  10  or  12-inch  skillet.  Stir  water  and  %  cup  salsa  into  bot- 
tom of  skillet.  Add  layers  of  Vi  of  torn  tortillas,  half  the  remaining 
salsa,  half  the  cheese,  all  the  olives,  zucchini  and  the  black  beans.  Top 
with  layers  of  remaining  tortillas,  salsa  and  cheese.  Cover  loosely  with 
foil  and  bake  on  top  stove  burner  over  medium-low  heat  until  cheese 
melts  and  zucchini  is  tender.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  cut  into 
wedges.  Serves  6. 

Each  serving  (without  extra  toppings)  contains  267  calories  and 
9  grams  of  fat. 

B.  J.  Buchert 

COMPANY  BREAKFAST  CASSEROLE 

1  lb.  sausage  or  bacon  1  tsp.  dry  mustard 

6  eggs  3  slices  bread,  cubed 

2  c.  milk  1  c.  sharp  cheese,  grated 
1  tsp.  salt 

Cook  sausage  or  bacon;  drain  and  cool.  Line  a  9  x  13-inch  casse- 
role dish  with  meat.  Beat  eggs  and  add  all  seasonings.  Spread  bread 
over  meat.  Pour  egg  mixture  over  all;  sprinkle  with  cheese.  Cover  and 
refrigerate  overnight.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes.  This  recipe  dou- 
bles nicely! 

Sue  Snead 
Shirley  Britton 
Cookie  Bryan 
Jean  Dyer 


-108- 


MAIN   DISHES 

CRAB  CASSEROLE 

1  lb.  crabmeat  finely  chopped  onion  (as  you 
V2  c.  mayonnaise  desire) 

2  large  eggs  about  2  Tbsp.  green  pepper 

1  tsp.  dry  mustard  paprika  (sprinkled  on  top) 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  and  bake  at  350°  for  15  to  20  minutes. 
Covering  with  foil  part  of  the  time  will  help  keep  it  moist. 

Joanne  Wasserman 

CRAB  QUICHE 

V2  c.  mayonnaise  8  oz.  crab  meat 

2  Tbsp.  flour  8  oz.  Swiss  cheese,  diced 
2  eggs,  beaten  separately  and  V2  c.  half  and  half 

added  one  at  a  time  1  deep-dish  pie  shell 

V'3  c.  green  onions  (tops  and  all) 

Mix  all  ingredients,  adding  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Put  in  deep-dish 
pie  shell.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 

Note:  Mozzarella  cheese  may  be  substituted  for  Swiss. 

Isabel le  Holmes 

CROCK-POT  LASAGNA 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  lasagna  noodles  2  (6  oz.)  cans  tomato  paste 

1  lb.  ground  beef  V2  c.  water 

1  onion,  chopped  1A  tsp.  salt 

1  clove  garlic,  minced  V2  tsp.  pepper 

12  oz.  Mozzarella  cheese,  1  V2  Tbsp.  dried  parsley 

shredded  1  tsp.  basil 
1  (12  oz.)  carton  cottage  cheese 

Break  noodles  into  bite  size  pieces  and  cook  according  to  pack- 
age directions;  drain.  Brown  ground  beef;  drain.  Put  in  lightly 
greased  crock-pot.  Add  all  remaining  ingredients;  stir  to  mix  thor- 
oughly. Cover  and  cook  on  low  for  7  to  9  hours  or  on  high  3  to  5  hours. 
Serves  6. 

Rosalie  Bailey 


-  109- 


MAIN  DISHES 


EASY  CHICKEN  AND  RICE 


1  box  long  grain  and  wild  rice 

2  to  2  1/2  c.  cut  up  chicken  or 
turkey 


1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  sour  cream 


Cook  rice  according  to  package  directions.  Mix  sour  cream  with 
rice.  Add  chicken.  Cook,  covered  with  plastic  wrap,  in  microwave  for 
about  10  minutes  or  until  heated  through.  Can  be  made  ahead  and 
cooked  later.  Can  be  frozen. 

Variations: 


Add  a  can  of  sliced  water  chestnuts. 
Add  a  can  of  mushroom  pieces  and  stems. 


EASY  CHICKEN  POT  PIE 


Shirley  Britton 


6  oz.  stuffing  (chicken  flavor 

Stove  Top) 
4  Tbsp.  margarine 
1  Vs  c.  hot  water 
12  oz.  chicken  gravy 


2  c.  cooked  chicken 

10  oz.  frozen  mixed  vegetables, 

thawed  and  drained 
Vt  tsp.  dried  thyme  leaves 

(optional) 


Heat  oven  to  350°.  Stir  contents  of  vegetable  seasoning  packet, 
margarine  and  water  in  bowl.  Add  stuffing  crumbs;  stir  until  marga- 
rine is  absorbed.  Mix  gravy,  chicken,  vegetables  and  thyme  in  2-quart 
casserole.  Spoon  stuffing  over  chicken  mixture.  Bake  for  45  minutes 
or  until  hot  and  bubbly. 

Mary  Walker 


-110- 


MAIN   DISHES 

EGGS  A  LA  SUISSE 

2  Tbsp.  plus  2  tsp.  grated  sharp  1  Tbsp.  milk 

cheese  1  egg 

Place  rack  in  oven  in  third  position  from  the  top.  Set  oven  at  325° 
to  preheat.  Lightly  butter  one  6-ounce  custard  cup. 

Sprinkle  2  tablespoons  finely  grated  cheese  in  custard  cup.  Break 
an  egg  into  a  clean  custard  cup.  Slide  the  egg  gently  on  top  of  the 
cheese,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  yolk.  Pour  1  tablespoon  milk 
on  the  egg.  Sprinkle  remaining  2  teaspoons  grated  cheese  on  top. 
Bake  in  the  325°  oven  for  25  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
serve  hot  in  custard  cup.  Serves  1,  but  may  be  multiplied  for  as  many 
servings  as  you  need. 

Kavan  Gillespie 


GRINGO  CHICKEN 

2  whole  chickens  or  10  to  12  1  can  each:  cream  of  mushroom 
breasts  soup,  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  large  onion,  minced  and  Ro-Tel  tomatoes  (chopped) 

several  (to  taste)  minced  garlic  with  chilies 

pods  1  pkg.  corn  tortillas,  quartered 

1  bell  pepper,  chopped  (10  to  15) 

5  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  lots  of  grated  Cheddar 

Boil  chicken  until  done;  bone  and  tear  in  bite  size  pieces.  Saute 
onion,  garlic  and  pepper  in  butter  until  tender.  Mix  soups  and  Ro-Tel. 
Spray  a  3-quart  casserole  with  Pam. 

Layer  tortilla  quarters  (dipped  in  broth),  Vi  of  the  chicken 
bites,  Vi  of  the  onion  mixture,  Vi  of  the  soup  mixture  and  a  layer  of 
Cheddar  cheese.  Repeat.  Bake,  uncovered,  for  30  to  40  minutes  at 
350°  (until  bubbly).  Serve  with  dishes  of  sliced  jalapenos,  avocado, 
sour  cream  and  chopped  green  onions. 

Betty  Broyles 
(For  Jo  Vance) 


-  Ill  - 

111596  Xil 


MAIN  DISHES 

HAM  AND  CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

10  slices  sandwich  bread  3  c.  milk 

1  lb.  cubed  ham  or  salami  Vfe  tsp.  onion  salt 

1  lb.  sharp  Cheddar,  grated  Va  tsp.  dry  mustard 

1  Va  c.  Swiss  cheese,  cubed  3  c.  crushed  cornflakes 
6  eggs  Va  c.  melted  butter 

Cut  crusts  from  bread  and  cube;  use  firm  white  bread.  Grease 
a  9  x  13 -inch  glass  baking  dish.  Spread  half  bread  cubes  evenly  in  dish. 
Add  ham  and  both  cheeses.  Cover  with  rest  of  bread  cubes. 

Mix  eggs,  milk  and  seasonings;  pour  evenly  over  bread  cubes. 
Refrigerate  overnight.  Combine  cornflakes  and  melted  butter  for  top- 
ping. Bake  at  375°  for  40  minutes. 

Beth  Shutts 

HAM  AND  SAUSAGE  JAMBALAYA 

(Microwave  Dish) 

2  c.  smoked  sausage  1  can  Ro-Tel  tomatoes  with  chili 
2  c.  chopped  onions  peppers 

Vs>  c.  chopped  celery  1  small  can  tomato  sauce 

Va  c.  chopped  green  onions  2  c.  rice  (uncooked) 

Va  tsp.  dried  minced  garlic  4  c.  water 

Va  Tbsp.  dehydrated  parsley  1  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  diced  ham  or  1  (16  oz.)  pkg.  Va  tsp.  pepper 

2  small  cans  tomato  paste  Va  tsp.  cayenne  pepper  (optional) 

In  a  5-quart  casserole  dish,  put  onions,  sausage  and  celery.  Saute 
on  High  for  10  minutes.  Add  green  onions  and  garlic;  saute  5  minutes 
on  High.  Stir  in  parsley,  ham,  tomatoes,  water,  salt,  pepper  and  cay- 
enne; cook  on  High  5  minutes.  Add  rice;  stir,  cover  and  cook  on  High 
10  minutes.  Lower  to  Medium  setting.  Cook  for  40  minutes;  stir  occa- 
sionally. (Cook  10  minutes  on  level  6;  stir  and  turn  Va.  Do  this  4 
times.)  Let  stand  a  few  minutes  before  serving. 

Note:  The  level  setting  depends  on  your  microwave. 

Bill  and  Connee  Walsh 


-112- 


MAIN  DISHES 


HAM  CASSEROLE 


2  c.  cooked  ham 

2  c.  cooked  rice 

V*  c.  grated  sharp  cheese 

V2  c.  evaporated  milk 


1  can  cream  of  asparagus  soup 

2  to  4  Tbsp.  chopped  onions 
%  c.  crushed  corn  flakes 
butter 


Mix  all  ingredients,  except  corn  flakes  and  butter.   Top  with 
crushed  corn  flakes;  dot  with  butter.  Bake  at  375°  for  25  minutes. 

Joyce  Clarke 
HAMBURGER  CASSEROLE 


1  ib.  ground  beef 

1  tsp.  salt 

V*  tsp.  pepper 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 


2  (8  oz.)  cans  tomato  sauce 

1  (5  oz.)  pkg.  thin  noodles 

2  c.  sour  cream 

Y2  c.  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 


Brown  beef.  Add  salt,  pepper,  onion  and  tomato  sauce.  Cover 
and  simmer  for  30  minutes. 

Meanwhile,  cook  noodles  according  to  package  directions  until 
tender;  drain.  Place  beef  mixture  in  a  casserole  and  cover  with  half 
of  the  noodles.  Add  1  cup  sour  cream.  Repeat  with  remaining  noodles 
and  sour  cream.  Top  with  Cheddar  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  for  about  30 
minutes  or  until  brown  and  bubbly.  Yields  6  to  8  servings. 

George  and  Wanda  Tyner 
Caroline  Kennett 


-  113- 


MAIN  DISHES 

HERBED  LEMON  BARBECUED  CHICKEN 

%  c.  lemon  juice  1  V2  c.  vegetable  oil 

2  cloves  garlic,  peeled  1  Tbsp.  dried  basil 

1  Tbsp.  onion  powder  1  tsp.  thyme 

1  V2  tsp.  salt  2  lb.  mixed  chicken  pieces 

1  V2  tsp.  paprika 

Combine  the  first  5  ingredients  in  blender.  Process  one  minute 
with  blender  on  high.  Add  the  oil  in  slow,  steady  stream;  process  1 
minute.  Add  the  basil  and  thyme;  process  on  low  for  30  seconds.  Re- 
move one  cup  sauce  and  chill. 

Pour  remaining  sauce  over  the  chicken  pieces.  Cover  and  chill 
8  hours.  Drain;  blot  excess  sauce.  Preheat  grill  20  minutes.  Arrange 
chicken  on  rack  directly  over  medium  hot  coals  (350°  to  400°).  Grill 
should  be  closed  during  cooking  time.  Cook  for  15  minutes  or  until 
golden  brown.  Turn  chicken  and  cook  for  10  to  15  minutes  more, 
brushing  frequently  with  sauce. 

Malinda  Connell 


HUTSPOT 

(Authentic  Dutch  Mashed  Potato  Dinner) 

2  lb.  kielbasa  (low-fat  is  fine)  1A  tsp.  white  pepper 

3  lb.  carrots,  peeled  and  diced  4  c.  water  (may  need  more) 
9  medium  potatoes,  peeled  and              au  jus  gravy  mix  or  your  own 

quartered  recipe 

9  onions,  peeled  and  quartered 

Put  sausage  in  large  kettle;  cover  with  water.  Bring  to  a  boil, 
then  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Add  vegetables  and  simmer  30  minutes 
more.  Remove  meat  and  drain  vegetables,  reserving  juice.  Mash  vege- 
tables, adding  pepper  to  taste. 

Make  au  jus  gravy,  using  liquid  reserved  from  vegetables.  Slice 
sausage  and  serve  vegetables  as  you  would  mashed  potatoes.  Pass  the 
gravy.  Serves  8. 

Sandy  Craig 


-  114- 


MAIN   DISHES 

IMPOSSIBLE  REUBEN  PIE 

1  (8  oz.)  can  sauerkraut  1  c.  milk 

1  %  c.  cooked  corned  beef,  diced  %  c.  Bisquick 

medium  fine  Vz  c.  mayonnaise 

4  oz.  Swiss  cheese,  shredded  2  Tbsp.  chili  sauce 

medium  fine  3  large  eggs 

Preheat  oven  to  400°.  Drain  kraut,  pressing  out  liquid.  There 
should  be  Vi  cup  kraut.  Sprinkle  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  Pyrex  dish 
(9  x  1 1  x  2-inch)  with  corned  beef.  Top  with  cheese,  then  with  kraut. 
In  an  electric  blender  at  high  speed,  blend  together  the  milk,  Bisquick, 
mayonnaise,  chili  sauce  and  eggs  until  smooth.  Pour  over  the  mixture 
in  the  dish.  Cook  until  the  sides  are  well  browned  and  the  top  is  golden 
(about  30  minutes).  Let  stand  about  5  minutes  before  serving. 
Serves  6. 

Caroline  Kennett 


KIELBASA  DINNER 

3  slices  bacon  1  Vz  lb.  kielbasa  sausage, 

1  1/z  lb.  small  red  potatoes,  thinly  diagonally  sliced 

sliced  1  1/2  lb.  fresh  broccoli,  cut  into 

3  large  carrots,  thinly  sliced  flowerets 

1  c.  chopped  onion  V2  tsp.  dried  whole  marjoram 

1  c.  water 

Cook  bacon  in  large  Dutch  oven  until  crisp;  remove  bacon, 
reserving  drippings  in  Dutch  oven.  Crumble  bacon  and  set  aside.  Add 
potatoes,  onion,  carrots  and  marjoram  to  drippings;  cook  over  medi- 
um heat  for  7  minutes,  stirring  often.  Add  kielbasa,  broccoli  and 
water;  bring  to  a  boil.  Cover;  reduce  heat  and  simmer  for  10  minutes 
or  until  vegetables  are  crisp-tender,  stirring  occasionally.  Serve  dinner 
in  soup  bowls;  sprinkle  with  crumbled  bacon.  Yields  6  servings. 

Sue  Snead 


-  115- 


MAIN  DISHES 


LASAGNA 


2  lb.  ground  beef  1A  c.  chopped  parsley 

1  medium  onion,  chopped  8  oz.  lasagna 

2  garlic  cloves,  chopped  16  oz.  Ricotta  cheese 

2  (1  lb.)  cans  tomatoes  12  oz.  Mozzarella  cheese 

1  (12  oz.)  can  tomato  paste  1  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

1  tsp.  salt  2  eggs 

1/2  tsp.  basil  1  V*  tsp.  parsley 

1  tsp.  oregano  salt  and  pepper 

Va  tsp.  crushed  red  pepper 

Saute  meat  with  onion  and  garlic  until  meat  is  brown.  Add 
tomatoes,  tomato  paste,  salt,  basil,  oregano,  pepper  and  parsley.  Cook, 
uncovered,  for  30  minutes.  Cook  lasagna;  drain  and  cover  with  cold 
water. 

Mix  together  cheeses,  eggs,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  1  cup 
meat  sauce  on  bottom  of  pan.  Add  layer  of  lasagna.  Add  layer  of 
cheese,  then  meat  sauce.  Repeat  layers.  Top  with  lasagna  and  meat 
sauce;  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 

Note:  This  can  be  made  ahead  and  refrigerated.  Bake  at  the  last 
moment. 

Joanne  Wasserman 


MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  -  CHEDDAR  AND 

SWISS 

2  Tbsp.  butter  1  lb.  ziti  noodles  (large  size), 

2  Tbsp.  flour  cooked 

1  c.  milk  8  oz.  Cheddar  cheese 

salt  and  pepper  (optional)  8  oz.  Swiss  cheese 

bread  crumbs 

Heat  together  in  saucepan  to  make  a  white  sauce  the  butter, 
flour,  milk  and  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  and  drain  the  ziti  noodles. 
Grate  together  the  cheeses  (put  aside  some  grated  cheese  for  top).  Add 
grated  cheese  to  white  sauce  above. 

In  greased  casserole,  layer  noodles  and  cheese  sauce.  Top  with 
remaining  grated  cheese  and  bread  crumbs.  Cook  in  a  375°  oven  for 
25  to  30  minutes. 

Zane  Smith 


-116- 


MAIN  DISHES 


MEXICAN  DELIGHT 


2  lb.  ground  pork 

1  large  onion,  chopped  fine 

3  cloves  garlic,  chopped  fine 
1  green  pepper,  chopped  fine 
1/2  tsp.  curry  powder 

1  can  tomato  soup 
1  qt.  canned  tomatoes 
1  large  can  mushrooms 
1  tsp.  chili  powder 


1  tsp.  salt 

pepper  to  taste 

1  can  cream-style  corn 

1  large  (1  lb.)  pkg.  wide  noodles, 
cooked 

2  cans  tamales,  cut  in  1-inch 
pieces 

1  lb.  American  cheese  (Velveeta), 
grated 


Place  pork,  onions,  garlic,  green  peppers  and  curry  powder  in 
large  skillet  and  fry  until  meat  gets  white.  Add  tomato  soup,  tomatoes, 
mushrooms,  chili  powder,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  to  consistency  of  a 
sauce.  Add  corn  and  cook  for  a  few  more  minutes.  Cook  noodles 
according  to  package  directions. 

In  a  large  casserole  (12  x  20  x  2  Vi-inch)  or  two  3 -quart  casseroles 
(2  Vi  inches  deep),  put  part  of  meat  sauce.  Put  all  of  noodles  on  top 
of  that.  Place  tamales  (cut  in  chunks  with  cut  ends  up)  around  in  mix- 
ture, pushing  noodles  aside  so  tamale  chunks  go  almost  to  bottom  of 
casserole.  Cover  with  half  of  the  grated  cheese,  then  rest  of  the  meat 
sauce  and,  lastly,  the  rest  of  the  grated  cheese.  Bake  for  1  hour  at  350°, 
covered  with  aluminum  foil.  Remove  foil  at  end  of  baking  time  to 
brown  slightly.  Makes  enough  for  a  crowd  of  hungry  people. 

Esty  Vollrath 

MY  MOTHER'S  BEEF  FROMAGE 


1  V2  lb.  lean  ground  beef 

1  V2  tsp.  salt 

2  tsp.  sugar 

1/2  tsp.  black  pepper 

1  large  clove  garlic,  minced 

2  (8  oz.)  cans  tomato  sauce 


1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  medium  noodles 

1  (4  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

6  green  spring  onions  with  tops, 

chopped 
1  (8  oz.)  carton  sour  cream 
grated  Cheddar  cheese 


Brown  ground  beef  with  salt,  sugar,  black  pepper  and  garlic; 
drain  any  fat.  Add  tomato  sauce  and  allow  to  simmer.  Cook  noodles 
according  to  package  directions;  drain.  Mix  together  cream  cheese, 
onions  and  sour  cream.  Add  to  the  drained  noodles;  mix  well. 

In  a  greased  round  casserole,  alternate  layers  of  the  ground  beef 
mixture  and  the  noodle  mixture,  ending  with  the  ground  beef  mixture 
on  top.  Sprinkle  with  grated  Cheddar  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  until  bub- 
bly. Serves  6. 

Barbara  Betts 


-  117- 


MAIN  DISHES 

RED  BEANS 

1  pkg.  red  beans  2  pods  garlic,  crushed 

2  onions  1  c.  ham,  cubed 
1  c.  rice  Vz  c.  Wesson  oil 

3  ribs  celery 

Soak  beans  overnight;  drain.  Saute  in  oil  the  onions,  celery  and 
garlic.  Put  in  the  ham  and  beans.  Add  water  to  cover  beans  about  3 
inches  above  them.  Cook  slowly,  uncovered,  on  top  of  stove  3  to  4 
hours.  Serve  with  rice,  cooked  according  to  package  instructions. 
Serves  4  to  6. 

Betty  Broyles 

REUBEN  CASSEROLE 

1  (27  oz.)  can  sauerkraut,  drained  1  (10  oz.)  can  buttermilk  flaky 

2  medium  tomatoes,  thinly  sliced  biscuits 

2  Tbsp.  Thousand  Island  dressing  2  rye  crackers,  crushed  (can  be 
2  Tbsp.  margarine  omitted) 

1  can  corned  beef,  shredded  1A  tsp.  caraway  seed 

2  c.  Swiss  cheese,  shredded 

Spread  kraut  in  10  x  13-inch  baking  dish.  Arrange  tomato  slices 
over  kraut;  spread  with  salad  dressing  and  dot  with  margarine.  Top 
with  corned  beef,  then  the  cheese.  Bake  at  425°  for  15  minutes. 

Separate  each  biscuit  into  3  thin  layers.  Arrange  over  casserole. 
Sprinkle  with  crackers  and  caraway  seed.  Bake  another  15  to  20  min- 
utes or  until  biscuits  are  golden. 

Ann  Harris 

SEA  LEGS  CASSEROLE 

%  lb.  sea  legs  8  oz.  Cheddar  cheese  (save  some 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  for  topping) 

1  c.  milk  onions  (optional) 

1  c.  small  shell  noodles  Old  Bay  (optional) 
(uncooked) 

Combine  all  the  ingredients.  Refrigerate  for  24  hours.  Bake  at 
350°  for  3/4  hour. 

Robin  Ezzell 


-118- 


MAIN  DISHES 


SEVEN  LAYER  CASSEROLE 


1  lb.  ground  beef 
%  c.  rice  (not  instant) 
1  large  potato 
1  medium  onion 
1  green  pepper 


1  to  2  carrots 

1  (14  Vk  oz.)  can  tomatoes 

(undrained) 
1  stick  butter  or  margarine 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Spread  raw  ground  beef  in  large  casserole  dish.  Sprinkle  rice 
over  beef,  then  layer  sliced  potatoes,  sliced  onions,  sliced  carrots  and 
sliced  green  pepper.  If  desired,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over 
each  layer.  Pour  tomatoes  over  all.  Place  margarine  or  butter  on  top. 
Cook  for  approximately  1  hour  in  a  325°  oven. 

Babs  Owens 

SHRIMP  'N  SALSA 


2  Tbsp.  butter  or  oleo 
2  garlic  cloves,  minced 
1A  c.  sliced  green  onion 
1  can  chopped  green  chilies 
1  c.  thick  'n  chunky  salsa 


1  lb.  large  shrimp,  peeled  and 
deveined 

8  oz.  fettucini,  cooked  and 
drained 

2  Tbsp.  lime  juice 


In  a  large  skillet,  melt  butter  and  saute  garlic  and  onion  3  to  4 
minutes.  Stir  in  chilies,  salsa  and  lime  juice;  cook  until  bubbly.  Stir 
in  shrimp;  cook  until  shrimp  turn  pink.  Place  fettucini  on  large  platter 
and  top  with  shrimp  salsa.  Makes  4  to  6  servings. 

Joline  Kickliter 

SPINACH  AND  CHEESE  LASAGNA  ROLL-UPS 


12  lasagna  noodles 
2  c.  Ricotta  cheese 
2  pkg.  frozen  chopped  spinach, 
thawed 


1A  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
2  c.  homemade  spaghetti  sauce 

or  1  (15  Y2  oz.)  jar  Prego  or 

Ragu 


Cook  lasagna  noodles  as  label  directs;  drain  and  cut  in  half.  Set 
aside.  Squeeze  water  from  spinach.  In  medium  bowl,  combine 
Ricotta,  spinach  and  cheese;  mix  well.  Spread  spoonful  of  cheese  mix- 
ture on  each  noodle;  roll  up,  jelly  roll  fashion. 

Spread  Vi  cup  sauce  in  a  13  x  9-inch  baking  dish.  Place  noodles, 
seam  side  down,  in  sauce.  Spoon  remaining  sauce  over  lasagna  rolls. 
Cover  and  bake  at  375°  for  30  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  Yields  8 
servings. 

Lois  Carbone 


1 1 1 596 


-  119 


MAIN  DISHES 


SPINACH  FANDANGO  WITH  NOODLES 


2  (10  oz.)  pkg.  chopped  frozen 

spinach 
1  lb.  lean  ground  beef 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 

1A  tsp.  garlic  powder  or  1  or  2 
cloves  garlic,  minced 

2  dashes  hot  sauce 
1  tsp.  oregano 

1  (10  oz.)  can  mushrooms 


1  V*  c.  sour  cream 

1  (10  oz.)  can  cream  of  celery 

soup 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  shredded 

Mozzarella  cheese 
1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  medium  egg 

noodles,  cooked 


Cook  spinach;  drain  and  squeeze  dry.  In  large  skillet,  saute 
ground  beef  until  brown,  adding  chopped  onion  and  minced  garlic,  if 
used.  Add  hot  sauce,  oregano,  garlic  powder,  mushrooms,  salt  and 
pepper;  simmer  for  5  minutes.  Add  spinach,  sour  cream  and  soup  to 
beef  mixture  and  heat  thoroughly.  Add  cooked  noodles.  Pour  into 
greased  casserole  dish.  Top  with  shredded  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  for 
15  to  20  minutes. 

Glenda  G.  Gibbs 


STUFFED  PEPPERS 


4  medium  peppers 

%  lb.  ground  beef 

1A  lb.  fresh  pork  sausage 


V2  c.  tomato  juice 

V2  c.  prepared  stuffing 


Brown  beef  and  sausage;  drain.  Add  tomato  juice  and  bread 
stuffing;  cook  briefly.  Stuff  in  parboiled  peppers.  Cook  at  325°  for  45 
minutes. 

Martha  Martin 
SUNDAY  BRUNCH  CASSEROLE 


4  c.  day  old  bread,  broken 
2  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
10  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
1  tsp.  dry  mustard 
4  c.  milk 
1  tsp.  salt 


V*  tsp.  onion  powder 

dash  of  pepper 

8  to  10  slices  bacon,  crumbled 

Va  c.  sliced  mushrooms 

1/2  c.  peeled,  chopped  tomatoes 


Place  bread  in  bottom  of  2-quart  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with 
cheese.  Beat  the  next  6  ingredients  together;  pour  over  cheese  and 
bread.  Sprinkle  with  mushrooms,  bacon  and  tomatoes.  Refrigerate, 
covered,  up  to  24  hours.  Bake,  uncovered,  at  325°  for  1  hour.  Serves  8. 

Martha  Martin 


-120- 


MAIN  DISHES 

SUPREMELY  EASY  SPINACH  LASAGNA 

1  lb.  Ricotta  cheese  1  tsp.  salt 

1  1/2  c.  shredded  Mozzarella  Vi  tsp.  garlic  powder 

cheese,  divided  (reserve  Vfc  c.  %  tsp.  oregano 

for  topping)  Vs  tsp.  pepper 

1  egg  V*  c.  parsley 

1A  c.  toasted  wheat  germ  2  (15  Vs  oz.)  jars  spaghetti  sauce 

(optional)  %  pkg.  lasagna  noodles 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  chopped  1  c.  water 

spinach,  thawed  and  drained 

One  step  recipe!  No  need  to  cook  noodles  ahead. 

Combine  the  first  10  ingredients.  In  a  greased  13  x  9-inch  baking 
dish,  layer  Vi  cup  spaghetti  sauce,  V$  of  noodles  and  Vi  cheese  mixture. 
Repeat  and  top  with  Vi  cup  cheese.  Pour  water  around  the  edges. 
Cover  tightly  with  foil.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour  and  15  minutes.  Let 
stand  15  minutes  before  serving.  Serves  6  to  8  people. 

Sandi  Clark 


TACO  SALAD 

1  lb.  ground  lean  beef  1  head  lettuce 

1  pkg.  taco  seasoning  mix  2  tomatoes 

1  can  well  drained  kidney  beans  1  to  2  c.  shredded  Cheddar 

1  pkg.  tortilla  chips  or  Cool  cheese 

Ranch  corn  chips  salsa  (if  desired) 
1  (8  oz.)  bottle  Thousand  Island 

dressing  (fat-free) 

Brown  beef  with  taco  seasoning  mix  as  directed  on  package.  Add 
drained  kidney  beans  to  pan.  Shred  by  hand  the  lettuce  into  bite  size 
chunks  in  large  bowl.  Dice  tomatoes;  sprinkle  cheese  on.  Toss  togeth- 
er with  crunched  up  bag  of  chips  and  salad  dressing.  Pour  meat  and 
bean  mixture  on  top  and  stir  through.  Serve  immediately.  Additional 
salsa  is  a  good  garnish  to  serve  with  this. 

Eleanor  Watts 


-  121  - 


MAIN  DISHES 


TAMALE  PIE 


1/4  c.  olive  oil 

1  Vi  lb.  ground  chuck 

1  c.  chopped  onions 

1  minced  garlic 

72  c.  chopped  green  pepper 

1  (No.  2)  can  tomatoes  (2  Vz  c.) 

1  (12  oz.)  can  whole  kernel  corn 

Crust: 

1  1/2  c.  milk 

1  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbsp.  oleo 


1  1/2  Tbsp.  salt 

1  Vz  Tbsp.  chili  powder 

1A  tsp.  black  pepper 

Vt.  c.  corn  meal 

1  c.  water 

1  c.  pitted  black  olives  (whole) 


1/2  c.  corn  meal 

1  c.  grated  cheese 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 


In  oil  in  skillet,  brown  chuck.  Add  onions,  garlic  and  green  pep- 
per; cook,  stirring,  until  onions  are  golden.  Stir  in  tomatoes  and  the 
next  4  ingredients;  simmer  5  minutes.  Mix  the  corn  meal  with  water; 
stir  into  mixture.  Cover  and  simmer  10  minutes.  Stir  frequently  to 
keep  from  sticking.  Add  olives  and  pour  into  3 -quart  casserole. 

Crust:  Heat  milk  with  salt  and  oleo.  Slowly  stir  in  corn  meal; 
cook,  stirring,  until  thickened.  Remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  cheese  and 
eggs;  pour  over  meat  mixture.  Chill. 

One  hour  and  20  minutes  before  dinner,  in  375°  oven,  bake  until 
bubbly.  If  not  chilled,  bake  40  minutes.  May  be  frozen  before  cooking. 

Betty  Forbes 


TURKEY  ROLL-UPS 


flour  tortillas 
shaved  deli  turkey 
lettuce,  shredded 


tomatoes,  seeded  and  chopped 
chopped  olives  (optional) 
cream  cheese  with  chives 


Spread  cream  cheese  on  tortilla.  Layer  turkey,  lettuce,  tomatoes 
and  olives  (optional).  Roll  and  serve,  or  refrigerate  until  ready  to 
serve. 

Debbie  Hartley 


-122- 


MAIN  DISHES 

UPSIDE-DOWN  PIZZA 

1  lb.  ground  beef  2  eggs 

1  green  pepper,  sliced  thin  1  c.  milk 

1  onion,  chopped  1  Tbsp.  oil 

1  small  can  mushrooms  Vz  tsp.  salt 

V2  tsp.  garlic  salt  1  c.  all-purpose  flour 

V*  tsp.  dried  oregano  V2  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

1  (15  oz.)  jar  pizza  sauce  black  olives,  pitted  and  chopped 

8  oz.  shredded  Mozzarella  1  small  bunch  parsley,  chopped 
cheese 

Brown  ground  beef,  green  peppers  and  onions;  pour  off  the  drip- 
pings. Add  can  of  drained  mushrooms,  garlic  salt,  oregano  and  pizza 
sauce.  Put  in  a  greased  9  x  12-inch  pan.  Sprinkle  with  Mozzarella. 

Mix  eggs,  milk,  salt,  oil  and  flour;  pour  over  the  meat  mixture. 
Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  for  30  minutes  or  until  brown 
at  350°.  Garnish  with  black  olives  and  parsley.  Serves  10  to  12. 

Esty  Vollrath 

SHRIMP  FETTUCINE 

1  Tbsp.  cornstarch  1  carrot,  curled  in  strips 
Vz  c.  orange  juice  V*  c.  sliced  mushrooms 

2  tsp.  butter  or  margarine  1  V2  lb.  shelled  and  deveined 
V2  c.  snow  peas  shrimp 

Vz  c.  chopped  tomatoes 

Cook  fettucine  according  to  package  directions.  Blend  corn- 
starch and  orange  juice  in  a  cup;  set  aside.  In  a  skillet,  melt  butter  and 
saute  shrimp,  snow  peas  and  tomatoes  until  shrimp  are  done  (2  to  3 
minutes).  Stir  in  orange  juice  and  cornstarch  mixture;  stir  until  thick- 
ened slightly.  Toss  in  carrots;  cook  1  minute.  Add  mushrooms;  mix 
together  and  serve  over  fettucine.  With  a  green  salad,  should  serve  4 
people. 

Beverly  Buchert 


-  123- 


MAIN  DISHES 

SPAGHETTI  PIE 

6  oz.  spaghetti  1  (8  oz.)  can  tomatoes 

2  Tbsp.  butter  1  (6  oz.)  can  tomato  paste 

1/3  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese  1  tsp.  sugar 

2  well  beaten  eggs  Vz  tsp.  garlic  salt 

1  lb.  ground  beef  or  pork  1  tsp.  dry  crushed  oregano 

sausage  1  c.  (8  oz.)  cottage  cheese 

V2  c.  chopped  onion  V2  c.  (4  oz.)  shredded  Mozzarella 
1A  c.  chopped  green  pepper 

Cook  spaghetti;  drain.  Stir  in  butter,  Parmesan  and  eggs.  Form 
into  pie  "crust"  in  buttered  10-inch  pie  plate.  In  skillet,  cook  beef, 
onion  and  pepper;  drain  excess  fat.  Stir  in  undrained  tomatoes,  paste, 
sugar,  oregano  and  garlic  salt;  heat  through. 

Spread  cottage  cheese  over  "crust."  Fill  "pie"  with  tomato  mix- 
ture. Bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes  or  until  bubbles.  Sprinkle  with 
Mozzarella.  Bake  5  minutes,  until  melted.  Serves  4  to  6. 

Jan  Callaway 

VEGGIE  SQUARES 

1  can  Pillsbury  crescent  rolls  6  Tbsp.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  finely  chopped  veggies  (red 
6  Tbsp.  mayonnaise  pepper,  green  pepper,  green 

Va  pkg.  Hidden  Valley  Ranch  onions,  broccoli  florets,  grated 

dressing  mix  carrots  and  cauliflower) 

Spread  rolls  as  one  on  cookie  sheet  and  bake  for  6  minutes  at 
350°.  Mix  together  cream  cheese,  mayonnaise  and  Ranch  dressing 
mix;  spread  on  cooled  crust.  Sprinkle  with  cheese,  then  mixture  of 
veggies;  gently  press  into  crust.  Refrigerate  overnight  or  at  least  for 
6  hours.  Cut  into  squares  and  serve. 

Eloise  Gumm 


-124- 


MAIN  DISHES 


WELSH  RAREBIT 

(The  Old  Fashioned  Welsh  Cheese  Sauce,  Spiked  With  Beer) 


3  Tbsp.  butter 

3  Tbsp.  whole  wheat  flour 

1  Vj?  c.  beer  or  ale  (room 

temperature) 
1  lb.  Cheddar  cheese,  coarsely 

grated 


1  tsp.  dry  mustard 
Va  tsp.  prepared  horseradish 
a  few  drops  Tabasco  sauce 
a  few  grindings  black  pepper 
1  clove  garlic,  crushed  (optional) 


In  a  medium  large  saucepan,  melt  the  butter  and  saute  garlic. 
Whisk  in  the  flour  and  dry  mustard.  Lower  heat  and  cook,  while 
whisking,  for  5  minutes.  Whisk  in  beer  and  cook  and  whisk  8  to  10 
more  minutes  or  until  thick.  Add  remaining  ingredients;  cook  over 
very  low  heat  for  8  to  10  minutes,  stirring  occasionally  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Serve  on  toasted  bread  or  English  muffin,  plain  or  accompa- 
nied by  apple  or  tomato  slices,  toasted  walnuts,  steamed  broccoli, 
asparagus  or  sauteed  mushrooms.  Serves  6. 

Virginia  Palmer 


-  125- 


MAIN  DISHES 

-YOUR  FAVORITE  RECIPES- 
Recipe  Page  Number 


-126- 


VSPeafood 


1115-96 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 


ANN  LANDERS'  MEAT  LOAF 

2  lb.  ground  beef  1  tsp.  Accent 

2  eggs  V2  c.  warm  water 

1  V2  c.  bread  crumbs  1  pkg.  Lipton  onion  soup 

%  c.  catsup  and  chili  sauce,  8  oz.  tomato  sauce  (optional) 
mixed 

Mix  all  ingredients,  except  tomato  sauce.  Place  in  loaf  pan.  Pour 
tomato  sauce  on  top.  Bake  in  preheated  350°  oven  for  1  hour. 

Bettie  Whitehead 


BAKED  CRABMEAT  AND  SHRIMP 

1  medium  size  green  pepper,  V2  tsp.  salt 

chopped  Vb  tsp.  pepper 

1  medium  size  onion,  chopped  1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  c.  chopped  celery  1  c.  mayonnaise 

1  or  2  (6  oz.)  cans  deluxe  white  1  c.  buttered  bread  crumbs  or 

crab  meat  potato  chips 

V2  lb.  fresh  shrimp  or  1  or  2  (6 

oz.)  cans  shrimp 

Combine  all  ingredients,  except  crumbs.  Place  in  individual 
greased  seashells  or  casserole.  Sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake 
for  about  30  minutes  in  a  350°  oven. 

Using  2  cans  of  seafood  will  make  6  ample  servings.  Great 
served  with  baked  tomato  halves. 

Caroline  Kennett 


BARBECUE  KIELBASA 

2  Polish  kielbasa,  sliced  28  oz.  Kraft  original  barbecue 

2  onions  sauce 

32  oz.  grape  jelly 

Heat  barbecue  sauce  and  grape  jelly  until  blended  well.   Add 
kielbasa  and  simmer  until  ready  to  serve.  Guten  appetit! 

Maria  W.  King 


-127- 


MEAT,   POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

BAY  ISLAND  CRAB  CAKES 

2  c.  fresh  or  frozen  crab  meat  1  egg 

Vs-  c.  Ritz  or  saltine  cracker  2  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

crumbs  dash  of  seafood  seasoning 

2  Tbsp.  diced  onions  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Mix  all  ingredients;  shape  into  cakes.  Brown  in  canola  oil. 

Martha  Midgett 

BEEF  AND  WINE 

2  lb.  round  steak,  cut  fine  %  c.  water 

1  c.  flour  1  c.  red  Burgundy  wine 

6  large  onions,  sliced  and  pulled  1  stick  butter 

into  rings  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  lb.  fresh  mushrooms 

Dredge  steak  in  flour.  Cook  onions  in  part  of  the  butter  until 
soft.  Remove  and  brown  meat  in  saucepan.  Return  onions.  Add 
mushrooms  and  other  ingredients;  stir  until  well  blended.  Simmer  10 
minutes.  Place  in  casserole  and  bake  4  hours  at  225°.  Freezes 
beautifully. 

Pat  Gore 

BEEF  BARBECUE 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  c.  catsup 

2  Tbsp.  vinegar  6  Tbsp.  chopped  onion 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  celery  seed 

Va  c.  water  2  lb.  ground  beef 

Brown  ground  beef.  Combine  other  ingredients  to  form  sauce; 
pour  over  meat.  Simmer  for  20  minutes.  Spoon  onto  hamburger  buns. 
Sauce  can  also  be  used  with  pork  roast  or  turkey. 

Hud  Clark 


-  128- 


MEAT,   POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

BEEF  TIPS 

3  lb.  stewing  beef,  cubed  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 

2  tsp.  meat  tenderizer  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

%  tsp.  pepper  Y»  c.  chopped  onions 

2  c.  liquid  (water  and  pan  1  Tbsp.  parsley 

drippings)  1  Tbsp.  Kitchen  Bouquet 

Sprinkle  tenderizer  and  pepper  on  beef.  Turn  meat  to  coat.  In 
heavy  roaster,  cook,  uncovered,  for  1  hour  at  400°  to  brown  meat,  turn- 
ing once  or  twice.  Drain  drippings  and  add  water  to  make  2  cups  liq- 
uid. Add  soups,  liquid,  Kitchen  Bouquet,  onions  and  parsley;  blend 
together.  Pour  over  meat.  Cover  roaster  and  bake  at  350°  for  2  or 
more  hours.  Serve  over  rice.  Serves  10. 

Eleanor  Watts 


BRISKET  POT  ROAST 

brisket  of  beef  2  Tbsp.  vinegar 

V*  c.  water  Vi  c.  raisins 

diced  onion  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  2  Tbsp.  shortening 

Heat  Dutch  oven  to  high.  Melt  shortening.  Turn  heat  to  medi- 
um and  add  brisket.  Turn  meat  often,  browning  deeply,  and  cook 
for  lA  to  1  hour.  Add  lA  cup  water.  Cover  pot  and  cook  for  1  Vi  to  2 
hours.  Add  diced  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  sugar,  vinegar  and  rai- 
sins about  Vi  hour  before  meat  is  cooked. 

Pat  Gore 


BUFFALO  WINGS 

2  V2  lb.  (12  to  15)  chicken  wings  2  Tbsp.  butter 

3  Tbsp.  Tabasco  sauce  oil  (for  frying) 

Cut  wings  at  all  joints;  discard  wing  tips.  Place  the  24  to  30 
pieces  on  absorbent  paper  to  dry.  Deep  fat  fry  at  375°  for  8  to  10  min- 
utes or  until  crispy.  Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  saucepan.  Add  3 
tablespoons  Tabasco;  stir  well.  Place  cooked  wings  and  sauce  mixture 
in  covered  bowl;  shake  gently  to  coat.  Use  tongs  or  slotted  spoon;  place 
wings  on  plate.  Serve  with  celery  sticks  and  Blue  cheese  or  Ranch 
dressing. 

Bev  Ambrose 


111596 


-  129- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

CHEESE  AND  CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 

2  whole  chickens  or  6  breasts  1A  c.  sour  cream 

12  oz.  shredded  Swiss  cheese  1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  Pepperidge  Farm 

2  small  cans  mushrooms  stuffing 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup  Va  to  1  stick  margarine,  melted 

Va  c.  milk 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Place  cooked,  bite  size  pieces  of  chicken 
in  a  9  x  13 -inch  pan.  Layer  on  grated  cheese  and  mushrooms.  Heat 
milk,  soup  and  sour  cream  until  blended  and  pour  over  chicken.  Bake 
for  about  30  minutes,  until  hot  through.  Mix  melted  butter  with  stuff- 
ing mix  and  spread  on  top.  Bake  another  15  minutes,  until  hot  and 
bubbly  all  through.  Serves  10  to  12. 

Caution:  Stuffing  will  burn  if  it  is  put  on  for  the  whole 
cooking  time. 

Eleanor  Watts 

CRAB  CASSEROLE 

1  lb.  backfin  crab  meat  2  eggs,  well  beaten 
4  Tbsp.  mayonnaise  (heaping)  1A  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbsp.  fresh  lemon  juice  1  tsp.  black  pepper 
2  slices  bread  Vi  c.  melted  butter 

V4  c.  white  wine  or  water  1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  tsp.  prepared  mustard  4  oz.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

Remove  crusts  from  bread;  break  up  slices  and  soak  in  wine  or 
water.  Combine  and  mix  well  all  ingredients,  except  cheese.  Put  in 
a  greased  8-inch  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  cheese  on  top.  Bake  for  30 
minutes  at  400°.  Serves  4  to  6. 

Barbara  Betts 


-130- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 


CRAB  QUICHE 


2  deep-dish  unbaked  pie  shells 
or  1  deep-dish  and  1  regular 
pie  shell 

1/2  c.  mayonnaise 

2  Tbsp.  flour 

V2  c.  milk 

2  eggs,  beaten 


1  2/3  c.  backfin  crab  meat 
1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  Swiss  cheese, 

shredded 
Vz  c.  chopped  onions 
1  small  can  sliced  mushrooms 
Vz  c.  chopped  green  pepper 


Beat  together  mayonnaise,  flour,  milk  and  eggs.  Mix  in  remain- 
ing ingredients.  Divide  between  the  two  pie  shells.  Bake  at  350°  for 
40  to  45  minutes.  The  second  quiche  may  be  frozen  for  later  use. 

Kitty  Barcalow 

CRAB  QUICHE 


V2  c.  mayonnaise 
2  Tbsp.  flour 
2  eggs,  beaten 
1/2  c.  milk 

2  lb.  flaked  crabmeat  (fresh  or 
canned) 


1  (16  oz.)  pkg.  shredded  Cheddar 

cheese 
1  to  2  tsp.  marjoram 
1  to  2  tsp.  minced  onion 
1  to  2  tsp.  pepper 
9-inch  deep-dish  frozen  pie  shell 


Combine  the  first  4  ingredients.  Whip  and  blend  thoroughly. 
Add  marjoram,  onion  and  pepper  (adjust  seasonings  to  taste).  Stir  in 
crabmeat  and  Cheddar  cheese.  Pour  into  pie  shell.  Bake  at  350°  for 
45  to  60  minutes,  depending  on  oven.  Quiche  should  be  firm,  but 
not  dry. 

Sue  and  Steve  Pearman 


111596 


131  - 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

CHICKEN  ELEGANT 

3  or  4  chicken  breasts,  boned,  1  tsp.  crushed  tarragon 

skinned  and  halved  2  Tbsp.  margarine  or  butter 

%  c.  flour  2  c.  undiluted  chicken  broth 

1  tsp.  salt  1  c.  sour  cream 

V*  tsp.  pepper  2/z  c.  peach  brandy 

Dredge  chicken  breast  halves  in  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  crushed 
tarragon.  Brown  in  skillet  with  butter  or  margarine.  In  a  small  sauce- 
pan, gently  warm  peach  brandy.  When  chicken  is  browned  on  all 
sides,  add  brandy  and  ignite.  Add  undiluted  chicken  broth.  Cover 
and  simmer  for  15  minutes. 

Remove  chicken;  stir  sour  cream  into  contents  of  skillet  and  heat 
through  without  boiling.  Pour  sauce  over  chicken;  serve  immediately. 
May  be  prepared  in  chafing  dish. 

Wanita  Kendrick 

CHICKEN  MARSALA 

2  chicken  breasts,  boned  and  1  small  can  sliced  mushrooms 
split  1  Va  c.  Marsala  wine,  divided  use 

1  stick  margarine,  melted  3  Tbsp.  margarine 

2  cloves  garlic,  chopped  flour 
Vb  tsp.  rosemary 

Flour  chicken  and  brown  in  mixture  of  1  stick  melted  margarine, 
garlic  and  rosemary.  Pour  1  cup  Marsala  wine  over  chicken;  simmer 
5  minutes.  Saute  sliced  mushrooms  in  3  tablespoons  margarine  and  XA 
cup  Marsala  wine.  Place  cooked  chicken  and  sauce  into  a  casserole 
dish.  Pour  mushrooms  over  top.  Bake,  uncovered,  for  30  minutes 
at  350°. 

Jean  Dyer 


-132 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

CHICKEN  PARMESAN 

6  chicken  breasts  (boneless)  1  Tbsp.  salt 

1  V2  c.  Italian  Progresso  bread  1  tsp.  pepper 
crumbs                                                   2  sticks  margarine 

V2  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

Combine  bread  crumbs,  Parmesan  cheese,  salt  and  pepper  in  a 
bowl.  Dip  the  chicken  breasts  in  the  melted  margarine,  then  in  the 
bread  crumbs  and  Parmesan  cheese  mixture,  being  careful  to  coat  the 
chicken  heavily.  Place  the  breast,  skin  side  up,  in  a  baking  dish.  Bake 
at  350°  for  30  to  40  minutes,  uncovered.  Do  not  turn  chicken. 

The  chicken  breasts  can  be  prepared  the  day  before  and  refriger- 
ated, then  baked.  This  freezes  well  before  or  after  baking.  To  reheat 
after  thawed,  bake  at  325°  until  hot. 

Leigh  Ann  Wilson 

CHICKEN  ROLL-UPS 

2  cans  deboned  chicken  or  4  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
cooked  breasts  1  c.  milk 

Vz  to  1  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese  1  can  crescent  rolls 

Combine  diced  chicken  (cooked)  and  grated  cheese.  Put  about 
2  tablespoons  chicken  mixture  on  each  roll  and  roll  up.  Add  any 
remaining  chicken  mixture  to  the  milk  and  soup;  heat.  Pour  half  the 
soup  mixture  into  an  ovenware  casserole.  Place  chicken  rolls,  side  by 
side,  and  pour  remaining  soup  mixture  over  rolls.  Bake  in  a  375°  oven 
for  20  to  25  minutes,  or  until  rolls  are  golden  brown.  Serves  8. 

Eleanor  Watts 


111596  —    133 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

CHICKEN  WITH  SNOW  PEAS 

2  whole  chicken  breasts,  cut  in  2  Tbsp.  sliced  almonds 

thin  strips  1  c.  snow  peas 

1  Tbsp.  sherry  %  c.  hot  chicken  broth 
V*  tsp.  sesame  oil  2  tsp.  cornstarch 

2  Tbsp.  vegetable  oil  2  Tbsp.  water 

2  thin  slices  ginger  2  Tbsp.  soy  sauce 

Put  chicken  in  bowl.  Add  sherry  and  sesame  oil.  Heat  vegetable 
oil  in  stir-fry  pan.  Fry  ginger  and  almonds;  discard  ginger.  Put  chick- 
en, sherry  and  sesame  in  pan  and  fry  2  minutes,  until  chicken  is  white 
and  firm.  Add  and  stir-fry  snow  peas  for  1  minute.  Add  chicken  broth 
and  stir  one  minute.  Add  soy  sauce.  Stir  in  cornstarch,  mixed  with 
water  to  thicken.  Serve  over  rice. 

Beef,  shrimp  or  pork  can  be  substituted  for  chicken. 

Annette  Chase 

COMPANY  ROAST  BEEF 

5  lb.  chuck  or  rump  roast  V2  lb.  fresh  mushrooms,  sliced 

2  large  onions  1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  green  pepper,  cut  into  thin  1  tsp.  seasoned  salt 

strips  1  tsp.  garlic  salt 

1/2  c.  dry  red  wine  (Burgundy  if  V2  tsp.  freshly  ground  black 

possible)  pepper 

1A  c.  water 

The  day  before  your  company  arrives,  place  meat  in  Dutch  oven 
or  other  large,  heavy  pot.  Combine  everything  else  and  pour  over  the 
roast.  Use  a  wine  that  is  fine  enough  to  serve  with  the  dinner.  Bake 
at  325°  for  at  least  4  hours  or  until  meat  is  very  tender.  Cool  meat  until 
it  is  room  temperature. 

Put  dish  in  refrigerator  and  leave  overnight.  The  next  day,  slice 
the  meat,  put  it  back  in  the  marvelous  sauce  and  reheat  for  dinner. 

If  you  happen  to  have  a  piece  of  beef  left  over  from  another  dish, 
you  can  also  use  this  recipe.  Saute  the  onions,  green  peppers  and 
mushrooms  in  2  tablespoons  olive  oil  until  limp.  Add  the  rest  of  the 
ingredients;  simmer  for  15  minutes.  Add  the  meat  (whole  or  sliced) 
and  heat  slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  until  all  is  hot.  Makes  8  to  10 
servings. 

Mary  Walker 


-134- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

COUNTRY  CAPTAIN 

1  cut  up  fryer  or  6  pieces  1  c.  chopped  green  pepper 

chicken  breast  1  minced  garlic  clove 

V2  c.  flour  1  1/2  c.  water 

1  tsp.  salt  1  (14  oz.)  bottle  catsup 

1/4  tsp.  pepper  2  tsp.  curry  powder 

V*  c.  oil  V2  tsp.  thyme 
1  c.  chopped  onion 

Remove  skin  from  chicken.  Coat  with  mixture  of  flour,  salt  and 
pepper.  In  covered  skillet,  brown  chicken  in  salad  oil.  Remove  from 
pan.  Add  onion,  pepper  and  garlic;  saute  until  brown.  Add  water,  cat- 
sup, curry  powder  and  thyme.  Add  chicken  and  coat  with  sauce. 
Bring  sauce  to  boil,  then  lower  heat  and  simmer  for  30  minutes.  Serve 
on  bed  of  rice. 

Jo  Sanders 


CRAB  AND  MUSHROOM  QUICHE 

4  eggs  1  unbaked  10-inch  pie  shell 

Vb  c.  minced  onion  2  c.  half  and  half 

Vb  tsp.  cayenne  pepper  1  tsp.  salt 

%  c.  fresh  mushrooms,  sauteed  1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  crabmeat, 

in  butter  thawed 

1  c.  shredded  Mozzarella  cheese  chopped  parsley 

Combine  eggs,  half  and  half,  onion,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper; 
blend  until  smooth  and  set  aside.  Drain  crabmeat  on  paper  towels 
until  very  dry.  Sprinkle  crabmeat,  mushrooms  and  cheese  over  bottom 
of  pie  shell.  Pour  in  egg  mixture  and  top  with  chopped  parsley.  Bake 
at  425°  for  15  minutes.  Reduce  heat  to  300°  and  bake  30  additional 
minutes  or  until  a  knife  inserted  into  middle  comes  out  clean.  Let 
stand  15  minutes  before  serving.  Yields  6  to  8  servings. 

Martha  Midgett 


-  135- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

CRANBERRY  CHICKEN 

3  boneless  chicken  breasts,  split  1  bottle  Catalina  salad  dressing 

in  half  (6  pieces)  1  envelope  Lipton  onion  soup  mix 

1  c.  whole  cranberry  sauce 

Place  breasts  in  9  x  13-inch  casserole.  Mix  other  ingredients  and 
pour  over  chicken.  Bake  at  325°  for  45  minutes  to  an  hour.  Serve  with 
wild  rice. 

Kitty  Barcalow 

EASY  BEEF  STEW 

2  lb.  lean  stew  beef,  cut  in  small  1  (10  V2  oz.)  can  cream  of  celery 
chunks  soup  (undiluted) 

1  (10  Vz  oz.)  can  cream  of  1  (2  %  oz.)  pkg.  Lipton  dried 
mushroom  soup  (undiluted)  onion  soup 

1  c.  California  Burgundy 

Place  meat  in  a  large  casserole  dish.  Combine  soups  and  wine; 
pour  over  beef.  Cover  and  bake  in  a  250°  oven  for  about  3  hours.  Serve 
with  rice  or  noodles.  Can  be  cooked  all  day  in  a  crock-pot.  Makes  6 
servings. 

Virginia  Palmer 

FAUX  FILET  MIGNON 

2  lb.  ground  round  1  tsp.  garlic  juice 
2  eggs,  well  beaten                                 2  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  chopped  onion  1  tsp.  pepper 

2  c.  cooked  white  rice  sliced  bacon  (as  needed) 

Mix  all  ingredients  (except  bacon)  together.  Prepare  patties 
about  3  Vi  inches  in  diameter  with  1-inch  cylinder  edges,  not  flattened 
edges.  Wrap  each  patty  with  1  slice  of  bacon;  secure  ends  with  tooth- 
pick. Bake  at  450°  for  30  to  45  minutes. 

Diane  Cauthen 


-136 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

FESTIVE  CHICKEN  ROLLS 

1  (8  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple,  1  Tbsp.  oil 

well  drained  and  divided  Vt  c.  catsup 

V3  c.  chopped  walnuts  V2  c.  whole  cranberry  sauce 

4  large  skinless  and  boneless  1A  c.  orange  juice 

chicken  breasts  Vs  tsp.  ground  cloves 

Flatten  chicken  breasts.  Mix  together  Vi  of  the  pineapple  and  all 
of  the  nuts.  Roll  each  breast;  secure  with  a  toothpick.  Cover  with  pine- 
apple mix.  Brown  lightly  in  oil;  turn  carefully. 

In  baking  dish,  mix  catsup,  cranberries,  orange  juice,  rest  of  the 
pineapple  and  cloves.  Add  chicken  breasts.  Bake,  covered,  for  1  to 
1  Vi  hours  at  350°.  Serve  with  rice  and  vegetables. 

Jean  Dutzer 


HERBED  LEMON  BARBECUED  CHICKEN 

%  c.  lemon  juice  1  V2  c.  vegetable  oil 

2  cloves  garlic,  peeled  1  Tbsp.  dried  basil 

1  Tbsp.  onion  powder  1  tsp.  thyme 

1  V2  tsp.  salt  2  lb.  mixed  chicken  pieces  (skin 

1  V2  tsp.  paprika  removed,  optional) 

Combine  the  first  5  ingredients  in  a  blender;  process  for  1  minute 
on  high.  Add  the  oil  in  a  slow,  steady  stream.  Process  for  1  minute. 
Add  the  basil  and  thyme;  process  on  low  for  30  seconds.  Remove  1 
cup  sauce  and  chill.  Pour  remaining  sauce  over  the  chicken  pieces. 
Cover  and  chill  8  hours. 

Drain;  blot  excess  sauce.  Preheat  grill  for  20  minutes.  Arrange 
chicken  on  rack  directly  over  medium-hot  coals  (350°  to  400°).  Grill 
should  be  closed  during  cooking.  Cook  15  minutes  or  until  golden 
brown.  Turn  the  chicken  and  cook  for  10  to  15  minutes  more,  brush- 
ing frequently  with  remaining  sauce. 

Malinda  Connell 


-  137 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

JAMBALAYA 

1  (1  lb.)  bag  rice  2  green  peppers 

1  (1  lb.  to  1  1/2  lb.)  pkg.  chicken  2  red  peppers 

breasts  1  bunch  green  onions 

1  pkg.  smoked  kielbasa  3  yellow  onions 

1  lb.  bulk  hot  sausage  %  pkg.  celery  stalks 

1  lb.  medium  shrimp  (may  be  5  medium  tomatoes 
frozen)  2  to  3  tsp.  chopped  garlic 

2  large  (32  oz.)  cans  chicken 
broth 

Use  the  following  seasonings  to  taste:* 

thyme  garlic  salt 

red  pepper  dash  of  Tabasco 

white  pepper  Old  Bay  seasoning 

black  pepper  salt 

Put  bulk  sausage  and  sliced  kielbasa  in  large  pot  at  low  heat. 
Break  up  sausage  in  pot  with  wooden  spoon  and  cook  until  pink  is 
gone.  Cut  up  chicken  in  small,  bite  size  pieces,  and  put  in  pot.  Stir. 
Cut  up  onions,  celery  and  peppers  and  place  in  pot;  stir.  Wash  and 
cut  mushrooms;  place  in  pot  and  add  spices  at  this  time.  Let  simmer 
15  minutes. 

Cook  shrimp  separately.  Drain,  rinse,  peel  and  cut  up.  Cut  up 
tomatoes  into  small  chunks  and  place  in  pot.  Add  chicken  broth.  Add 
water  if  necessary.  Bring  to  boil.  Once  at  boil,  add  shrimp  and  rice; 
stir.  Reduce  heat  to  simmer.  Stir  occasionally  and  taste.  Add  more 
spices  as  needed.  Can  add  more  rice  if  you  want  it  less  soupy. 

*Go  heavy  on  garlic,  thyme  and  Old  Bay  seasoning;  medium  on 
red,  white  and  black  peppers.  Light  on  salt.  Use  touch  of  Tabasco. 

Chaz  Heron 

(Son-in-Law  of  Cookie  Bryan) 


-138- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

JOELLA  CHICKEN 

1  (2  Va  oz.)  jar  dried  chipped  beef  1  (4  oz.)  can  sliced  mushrooms 

8  boneless  chicken  breasts  (undrained) 

1  (10  V2  oz.)  can  cream  of  1/2  c.  California  dry  sherry 

mushroom  soup  paprika 
1  c.  dairy  sour  cream 

Place  chipped  beef  on  bottom  of  a  shallow  casserole.  Arrange 
chicken  breasts  on  top.  Cover  with  mixture  of  soup,  sour  cream, 
mushrooms  with  liquid  and  sherry;  dust  with  paprika.  Bake,  uncov- 
ered, in  a  350°  oven  for  1  Vi  hours.  Serves  8. 

Virginia  Palmer 

MARINATED  PORK  ROAST 

1  (4  to  5  lb.)  loin  roast,  boned,  rolled  and  tied 

Marinade: 

2  tsp.  oregano  leaves  (fresh  if  %  c.  dry  sherry 
possible)  V2  c.  soy  sauce 

2  Tbsp.  dry  mustard  2  cloves  garlic,  minced 

2  tsp.  whole  thyme  leaves  1  tsp.  ground  ginger 

Apricot  Sauce: 

1  (10  oz.)  jar  apricot  preserves  2  Tbsp.  dry  sherry 

1  Tbsp.  soy  sauce 

Marinade:  Combine  ingredients  in  a  shallow  dish  or  plastic  bag, 
stirring  well.  Add  meat  and  marinate  3  to  4  hours  or  overnight  in 
refrigerator,  turning  occasionally.  Remove  roast  from  marinade  and 
place  on  rack  in  a  shallow  roasting  pan.  Insert  meat  thermometer  at 
an  angle  in  the  thickest  part  of  the  roast.  Bake,  uncovered,  at  325°  until 
thermometer  registers  170°  (2  Vi  to  3  hours). 

Apricot  Sauce:  Combine  ingredients  in  a  small  saucepan.  Cook 
over  low  heat  until  preserves  melt.  Serve  warm  over  sliced  roast. 
Serves  10  to  12. 

Liz  Haste 


111596 


-  139- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

MEAT  LOAF 


Meat  Loaf: 

1  V2  lb.  ground  meat  (can  mix 

ground  beef  and  ground  turkey) 
1  c.  bread  crumbs  or  oatmeal 

Sauce: 

1  (15  oz.)  can  tomato  sauce 
3  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 
3  Tbsp.  vinegar 


1  medium  onion,  chopped 

1  egg 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Vz  c.  water 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  tsp.  mustard 


Meat  Loaf:  Combine  ingredients,  plus  Vi  of  the  can  of  tomato 
sauce.  Mix  well  and  shape  into  loaf.  Place  in  shallow  baking  dish. 

Sauce:  Combine  remaining  tomato  sauce  and  rest  of  ingredients. 
Pour  over  meat  loaf  and  bake  at  350°  for  about  1  hour. 

Cynthia  Bowden 

MOTHER'S  SCALLOPED  OYSTERS 


V2  c.  melted  butter  or  margarine 
1  pt.  oysters,  drained  (save 
liquid) 


1  individual  pkg.  butter  flavored 

crackers,  crumbled 
milk 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Butter  a  1  ^-quart  casserole.  Place  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  on 
bottom.  Pour  some  of  the  melted  butter  over.  Place  one  layer  of  oys- 
ters next;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Repeat  these  two  layers.  Top 
with  another  layer  of  cracker  crumbs.  Pour  reserved  oyster  liquid  over 
all.  Add  enough  milk  "to  see"  but  not  to  cover.  Bake  at  350°  for  30 
minutes. 

May  be  microwaved  on  Full  power  3  to  5  minutes  or  until  a  tem- 
perature of  150°  is  reached. 

Gaye  Burton 


-140- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

NEW  YEAR'S  BARBECUE 

4  to  6  lb.  lean  pork  shoulder  2  Tbsp.  salt  (may  be  decreased) 

Vi  c.  cider  vinegar  2  tsp.  black  pepper 

1  (1  lb.)  can  tomatoes  2  tsp.  crushed  red  pepper 

1/3  small  bottle  Worcestershire 
sauce 

Trim  all  fat  and  skin  from  shoulder.  Mix  all  other  ingredients 
in  Dutch  oven;  add  meat  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer 
6  hours.  (Turn  meat  over  after  3  hours.)  Drain  in  colander;  cool  and 
shred.  Reserve  drained  juices  for  reheating  leftover  barbecue. 

Beryl  Bates 

OVEN  BARBECUED  BRISKET 

1  (3  to  4  lb.)  beef  brisket  1  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbsp.  liquid  smoke  1  tsp.  garlic  powder 
2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  tsp.  onion  powder 

2  tsp.  celery  seed  bottled  barbecue  sauce 

2  tsp.  pepper 

Place  brisket,  fat  side  up,  in  shallow  pan.  Combine  all  ingredi- 
ents, except  barbecue  sauce.  Mix  well;  pour  over  brisket.  Cover  and 
refrigerate  overnight. 

Put  pan  in  oven;  cover  and  bake  at  250°  for  5  hours.  Remove 
brisket  from  pan.  Discard  all  marinade.  Cool,  then  slice  diagonally 
across  the  grain.  Place  layer  of  sliced  beef  in  pan;  drizzle  with  barbe- 
cue sauce.  Repeat  layers.  Bake,  uncovered,  at  300°  for  30  minutes  or 
until  tender.  Can  be  frozen. 

Nancy  Wilson 


111596 


-  141  - 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 


3  to  4  lb.  chicken  breasts  or 

thighs 
12  large  shrimp  in  shells 
12  clams,  well  scrubbed 
12  mussels,  scrubbed  and 

beards  removed 

1  c.  sliced  Spanish  chorizo  or 
mild  Italian  sausage 

2  yellow  onions,  peeled  and 
sliced 

1  lb.  lobster  meat 


PAELLA 


2  garlic  cloves,  finely  chopped 

1  red  bell  pepper,  seeded,  cored 
and  thinly  sliced 

3  c.  chicken  stock 
V*  tsp.  saffron 

1  c.  small  grain  rice 

1  c.  small  frozen  or  fresh  peas 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  c.  dry  white  wine 

Vb  c.  extra  virgin  olive  oil 

1  tsp.  paprika 


Heat  15 -inch  round  paella  pan  or  large  frying  pan.  Add  olive  oil 
and  brown  chicken  on  all  sides.  Re  ove  chicken  and  set  aside.  Cook 
sausage  in  same  manner.  Reduce  heat;  stir  in  onions,  pepper  and  gar- 
lic. Combine  chicken  stock  with  wine  and  saffron;  add  to  pan.  Bring 
to  full  boil  and  add  rice.  Reduce  to  low  heat  and  return  chicken  and 
sausage  to  pan.  Simmer  for  15  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 

Add  shrimp,  lobster,  clams  and  mussels,  mixing  clams  and  mus- 
sels with  rice.  Sprinkle  peas  on  top.  Cover  and  cook  until  clams  and 
mussels  are  opened  and  rice  is  tender.  Garnish  with  lemon  slices. 
Serve  in  same  pan. 

Joe  Morales 

PAM'S  FISH  WITH  HERBS 


1  lb.  firm  whitefish  (orange 
roughy  works  well) 

V3  c.  soft  margarine 

2  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

2  Tbsp.  finely  chopped  onion 
1  clove  garlic,  minced 


V2  tsp.  salt 

1/4  tsp.  black  pepper 

1/4  tsp.  each:  tarragon,  thyme, 

basil  and  dried  parsley 
1  Tbsp.  lemon 
paprika  to  taste 


Preheat  oven  to  400°.  Line  two  baking  dishes  with  foil.  Combine 
the  softened  margarine  with  remaining  ingredients  (except  paprika) 
and  spread  over  the  fish.  Sprinkle  top  with  paprika.  Bake  for  12  to 
15  minutes  or  until  fish  flakes  easily.  If  you  wish,  you  can  slip  it  under 
the  broiler  at  the  end  to  brown. 

Wanita  Kendhck 


-142- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

PEARL'S  CRAB  MOUSSE 

2  cans  crabmeat  (Harris  deluxe  1  c.  finely  chopped  celery 

white)  1  c.  mayonnaise 

%  c.  shrimp  (Blue  Water  is  best)  2  Tbsp.  plain  gelatin,  dissolved 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  in  V2  c.  water 

2  (3  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 
1  small  onion,  grated  dash  of  Tabasco 

Combine  all  ingredients,  except  gelatin  and  water.  Heat  thor- 
oughly. Combine  gelatin  and  water.  Add  gelatin  mixture  to  first  mix- 
ture. Pour  into  two  well-greased  molds.  I  use  mayonnaise  to  grease! 

Caroline  Kennett 


POLYNESIAN  CHICKEN 

8  chicken  breasts  or  thighs  V2  c.  water  or  pineapple  juice 

8  oz.  bottled  Russian  dressing  1  green  pepper,  sliced 

1  c.  apricot  jam  1  can  pineapple  chunks,  drained 
1  pkg.  dry  onion  soup  mix 

Place  skinned  chicken  pieces  in  baking  dish.  Combine  the  next 
4  ingredients  and  pour  over  chicken.  Cook  at  400°  for  Vi  hour,  covered. 
Reduce  heat  to  350°.  Uncover  and  add  pepper  slices  and  pineapple 
chunks.  Cook  another  Vi  hour  or  until  done.  Serve  with  rice. 

Eleanor  Watts 


ROAST  LEG  OF  LAMB 

1  leg  of  lamb  V2  c.  wine  vinegar 

2  garlic  cloves,  minced  or  2  Tbsp.  oil 
crushed  1  onion,  sliced 

2  tsp.  salt  2  sliced  carrots 

V2  tsp.  pepper  1  V2  c.  apple  juice 

1  tsp.  rosemary 

Trim  excess  fat  from  lamb  and  score  in  diamond  pattern.  Mix 
garlic,  seasonings,  vinegar  and  oil.  Rub  over  lamb.  Roast  for  1  hour 
at  325°.  Pour  off  excess  fat.  Add  onion,  carrots  and  apple  juice.  Fin- 
ish roasting  to  medium  rare  (155°  on  meat  thermometer)  or  about  1  Vi 
hours.  Baste  occasionally.  Serve  sauce  and  vegetables  over  meat  or 
mashed  potatoes. 

Shirley  Britton 


143  - 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 


SCALLOPED  OYSTERS 


1  qt.  oysters 

2  c.  crackers  (Ritz  or  saltines, 
crushed) 

1  stick  butter 


1  small  onion 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
nutmeg  and  red  pepper 
whipping  cream  (to  cover) 


Brown  butter.  Add  minced  onion  and  cook  slightly,  then  add 
cracker  crumbs.  In  2-quart  casserole,  place  layer  of  oysters,  salt,  pep- 
per and  crumbs.  Alternate  layers  as  necessary.  I  prefer  a  single  layer. 
Drizzle  cream  over  layers.  Sprinkle  with  a  light  dusting  of  nutmeg  and 
red  pepper.  Bake  at  375°  for  30  to  40  minutes  or  until  bubbly  and 
brown. 

Helen  Waller 

SHRIMP  A  LA  BOB 


1A  to  Vb  c.  olive  oil 

2  garlic  cloves,  minced 

V*  tsp.  salt 

1'4  tsp.  pepper 

1/2  c.  chopped  fresh  parsley 

1  tsp.  basil 


V*  to  V2  c.  cooking  sherry 
1  lb.  shrimp,  shelled  and 

deveined 
1  lb.  angel  hair  pasta 
1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
Parmesan  cheese 


Saute  garlic  clove  in  olive  oil.  Add  salt,  pepper,  sherry,  lemon 
juice,  parsley  and  basil. 

In  the  meantime,  cook  the  pasta  a  bit  past  al  dente.  Add  shrimp 
to  sauce  until  they  turn  pink.  Do  not  overcook.  Drain  pasta  and  place 
in  pasta  bowl.  Add  shrimp  sauce  to  pasta  and  toss  with  grated  Parme- 
san cheese.  Garnish  with  a  dash  of  paprika.  Enjoy! 

Robert  Stephens 

SEAFOOD  CASSEROLE 


2  c.  stuffing  mix 

2  c.  milk 

1  lb.  crabmeat,  sea  legs  and 

shrimp  (total  1  lb.  any 

combination) 
1  c.  sliced  celery 


Va  c.  chopped  onion 

1/4  c.  green  pepper 

1  c.  mayonnaise 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice 


Soak  stuffing  in  milk  to  soften.  Add  all  other  ingredients  and 
stir.  Pour  into  a  greased  casserole  and  bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 
Serves  8  to  10. 

Cynthia  Bowden 


144- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 


SEAFOOD  GOURMET 


2  c.  cooked  white  rice 
2  c.  cooked  wild  rice 
2  large  onions,  chopped 
1  green  pepper,  chopped 
%  c.  chopped  celery 
1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 


1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

2  c.  half  and  half 

2  lb.  crabmeat  or  1  lb.  crab  and 

2  V2  lb.  shrimp 
1  lb.  shrimp 
grated  Cheddar  cheese 


Saute  onions,  pepper  and  celery  in  a  little  butter.  Mix  all  ingredi- 
ents together.  Place  in  a  baking  dish.  Put  grated  cheese  on  top  and 
bake  at  350°  for  1  hour.  Sliced  toasted  almonds  may  be  sprinkled  on 
top  as  desired. 

This  recipe  serves  12  to  16  people.  Can  be  halved.  Cut  every- 
thing in  half  and  use  1  can  of  soup,  whichever  flavor  you  want. 

You  can  also  make  this  ahead  of  time;  place  in  refrigerator  and 
cook  just  prior  to  serving. 

Recipe  from  Winsome  Leeper. 

B.  J.  Buchert 


SHRIMP 


1  lb.  shrimp  (unpeeled),  rinsed 
V*  lb.  melted  margarine 
1  bottle  Italian  Wish-Bone 
dressing 


V*  c.  wine 

juice  of  2  lemons 

chili  powder  to  taste 


Put  shrimp  and  margarine  in  baking  dish.  Mix  remaining  ingre- 
dients and  pour  over  shrimp.  Stir  to  coat  shrimp.  Bake  for  20  minutes 
at  450°. 

Martha  Jacobs 


-  145  - 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

SHRIMP  REMOULADE 

4  tsp.  lemon  juice  1  c.  salad  oil 

4  tsp.  tarragon  vinegar  V2  c.  chopped  celery  or  more 

4  tsp.  mustard  V2  c.  chopped  green  onions  with 

4  tsp.  horseradish  some  green  included 

2  tsp.  catsup  1  lb.  shrimp,  cooked  and  peeled 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Marinate  shrimp  in  above  mixture  for 
at  least  4  hours.  Marinating  overnight  is  fine.  Remove  shrimp  from 
marinade  and  serve  over  lettuce. 

Can  garnish  salad  plate  with  slices  of  avocado,  grapefruit  and 
kiwi.  Can  keep  marinade  for  up  to  3  weeks  for  reuse. 

Caroline  Kennett 

SWEET  AND  SOUR  MEATBALLS 

2  lb.  ground  chuck  (very  lean)  12  oz.  chili  sauce 

1  onion,  chopped  10  oz.  orange  marmalade 

3  eggs  1  lemon,  juiced 

2  slices  bread,  crumbled 

Combine  meat,  onion,  eggs  and  bread  to  form  1  V^-inch  meat- 
balls. Make  sauce  from  remaining  ingredients.  Simmer  in  the  sauce 
for  1  hour.  Serve  in  chafing  dish. 

The  beauty  of  this  dish  is  that  the  meatballs  do  not  have  to  be 
browned.  Chilling  after  they  have  been  simmered  allows  fat  to  harden 
so  that  it  can  be  easily  removed.  Warm  gently  at  serving  time.  You 
can  cook  them,  then  freeze  meatballs. 

Debbie  Hartley 


-146- 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

SWEET  AND  SOUR  PORK 

2  green  peppers  %  c.  light  brown  sugar 

2  medium  onions  3  Tbsp.  salad  oil 

2  lb.  pork  1/2  c.  water 

3  Tbsp.  cornstarch  y2  c.  vinegar 

3  Tbsp.  soy  sauce  1  small  can  pineapple  chunks, 

1  V2  tsp.  ginger  drained 

1  clove  garlic,  minced  1  tsp.  salt 

Mix  soy  sauce,  ginger,  garlic  and  cornstarch  together.  Pour  3 
tablespoons  of  salad  oil  in  frying  pan.  Put  bite  size  pieces  of  pork  in 
bowl  of  soy  sauce,  ginger,  garlic  and  cornstarch.  Coat  meat  well,  then 
brown  in  frypan.  Add  water,  vinegar  and  brown  sugar.  Slice  peppers, 
onions  and  pineapple;  add  to  frying  pan.  Simmer  for  45  minutes  or 
until  vegetables  are  tender.  Serve  over  cooked  rice.  Makes  4  large  or 
6  small  servings. 

Margaret  Dugger 
Judy  Taylor 

TERIYAKI  STEAK 

2  to  2  1/2  lb.  flank  steak  2  or  3  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 
%  c.  soy  sauce  2  cloves  garlic,  minced 

14  c.  water  1  small  piece  fresh  ginger 

2  or  3  Tbsp.  olive  oil  or  salad  oil  (approximately  2  tsp.) 

Make  the  teriyaki  sauce  with  all  of  the  ingredients  except  the 
steak.  Mix  well  and  pour  over  the  steak.  Marinate  in  the  refrigerator 
for  3  or  4  hours  or  overnight,  turning  several  times.  Drain  and  save 
marinade  to  heat  to  serve  with  the  steak  and  rice.  Broil  steak  in  oven 
broiler  about  4  inches  from  element  about  3  minutes  on  each  side  or 
longer  if  steak  is  extra  thick.  This  is  for  medium  rare,  so  adjust 
accordingly.  Before  serving,  slice  steaks  diagonally  into  medium  thin 
slices  on  cutting  board.  Serve  on  a  platter  with  rice  and  peas.  Pass 
the  heated  remaining  marinade  and  enjoy. 

Esty  Vollrath 


111596  —   147  - 


MEAT,  POULTRY  &  SEAFOOD 

-YOUR  FAVORITE  RECIPES- 
Recipe  Page  Number 


148- 


9P SPa/acL 


1  v  Vr 


1115-96 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


BROCCOLI  CHOWDER 

2  lb.  fresh  broccoli  1A  tsp.  pepper 

2  (13  %  oz.)  cans  chicken  broth  1  c.  half  and  half 

3  c.  milk  2  c.  (1/a  lb.)  shredded  Swiss 

1  c.  chopped  cooked  ham  cheese 

2  tsp.  salt  V*  c.  margarine 

Combine  broccoli  and  1  can  chicken  broth  in  a  Dutch  oven;  cover 
and  cook  7  minutes  or  until  crisp-tender.  Remove  broccoli  from  broth; 
cool  and  chop  coarsely.  Add  remaining  can  of  chicken  broth,  milk, 
ham,  salt  and  pepper  to  Dutch  oven.  Bring  to  a  boil  over  medium  heat, 
stirring  occasionally.  Stir  in  broccoli  and  remaining  ingredients. 
Cook  over  low  heat  until  thoroughly  heated.  Do  not  boil.  Yields  6  to 
8  servings. 

Gaye  Burton 

BRUNSWICK  STEW 

1  (6  lb.)  stewing  hen  or  2  (3  lb.  3  medium  potatoes,  diced 
each)  frying  chickens  4  c.  corn  cut  from  cob  or  2  (1  lb.) 

2  large  onions,  sliced  cans  corn 
2  c.  okra,  cut  up  (optional)  3  tsp.  salt 

4  c.  fresh  tomatoes  or  2  (1  lb.)  1  tsp.  pepper 
cans  tomatoes  1  Tbsp.  sugar 

2  c.  lima  beans 

Cut  chicken  in  pieces  and  simmer  in  3  quarts  of  water  for  a  thin 
stew  or  2  quarts  for  a  thick  stew,  until  meat  can  easily  be  removed  from 
the  bone  (about  2  x/i  hours).  Remove  chicken  from  the  pan.  Add  raw 
vegetables  to  broth  and  simmer,  uncovered,  until  beans  and  potatoes 
are  tender.  Stir  occasionally  to  prevent  scorching.  Add  the  chicken 
(boned  and  diced)  and  the  seasonings. 

Louise  Lowery 


111596 


-  149- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


BRUNSWICK  STEW 


1  chicken,  cut  up 

1  qt.  water 

1  onion,  chopped 

1  carrot,  sliced 

1  stalk  celery,  chopped 


salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  can  creamed  corn 

2  cans  butter  beans 
1  can  tomatoes 

1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 


Cut  up  1  chicken;  put  in  large  pot  with  water  to  cover  (about  a 
quart).  Add  salt,  pepper,  onion,  carrot  and  celery.  Cook  until  meat 
is  ready  to  fall  off  bones,  about  1  hour.  Take  out  bones  and  skin;  cut 
up  larger  pieces  of  meat  to  bite  size.  Add  corn,  tomatoes  and  butter 
beans.  Let  cook  slowly  for  1  to  1  Vi  hours.  Add  1  tablespoon  Worces- 
tershire sauce  just  before  serving. 

Frances  Thayer 

BRUNSWICK  STEW 


5  lb.  chicken,  cooked  and  cubed 

1  %  lb.  ground  beef 

1  3,4  lb.  ground  pork 

5  lb.  potatoes 

1  can  garden  peas  (hold  back) 

1  can  carrots  (hold  back) 

1  can  kidney  beans 

2  cans  corn  (hold  back) 

2  cans  lima  beans  (hold  back) 
4  cans  tomatoes 


1  bunch  chopped  celery 

2  lb.  chopped  cabbage 

1  1/2  lb.  onions,  chopped 
crackers 

1  bottle  Worcestershire 

2  Tbsp.  dry  mustard 
V*  c.  vinegar 

1/2  c.  tomato  catsup 
1  bottle  horseradish  (not  the 
creamed  type) 


Cook  the  chicken,  meats  and  raw  vegetables  separately,  as  it  is 
easier  to  remove  the  fat  from  the  meat  this  way.  When  the  meat  and 
vegetables  are  done  and  the  fat  has  been  drained,  add  all  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients,  except  the  crackers,  and  cook  on  low  heat.  Stir  fre- 
quently. Before  serving,  add  the  crackers  until  thickened.  It  is  sup- 
posed to  be  thick. 

This  is  a  very  old  recipe  handed  down  to  Virginia  Elizabeth 
Rimmer  Bell.  It  feeds  a  large  crowd. 

Martha  Jacobs 


-150- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

CARROT  AND  TARRAGON  SOUP 

12  oz.  carrots  1  ft  pt.  boiling  water 

2  finely  chopped  leeks  2  oz.  butter 

1  small  onion  3  Tbsp.  double  cream 

2  sprigs  fresh  tarragon  or  V*  tsp.  1  tsp.  sugar 

dried  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Slice  carrots  thinly  and  chop  onion.  Melt  butter  in  a  pan  and 
saute  onion.  Add  carrots  and  leeks.  Put  on  a  lid  and  allow  vegetables 
to  "sweat"  for  10  minutes.  Add  tarragon  leaves,  boiling  water,  sugar, 
salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  gently  for  25  minutes.  Liquify;  check  season- 
ing and  reheat,  stirring  in  the  cream  just  before  serving.  Serves  4 
people. 

Brenda  Potter 


CHICKEN  BROCCOLI  SOUP 

2  Tbsp.  margarine  1  Vz  c.  chunked  chicken 

%  c.  chopped  onion  8  oz.  mushrooms 

6  cubes  chicken  bouillon  1  lb.  Velveeta  cheese 

6  c.  water  6  c.  milk 

2  pkg.  frozen  chopped  broccoli  1  tsp.  pepper 

8  oz.  egg  noodles 

Saute  onion  and  mushrooms.  Add  the  water.  Add  chicken 
bouillon  cubes  and  heat  to  boiling  to  dissolve  cubes.  Gradually  add 
noodles;  boil  3  minutes.  Stir  in  broccoli.  Once  defrosted,  cook  6  min- 
utes more.  Add  chicken,  milk,  cheese  and  pepper.  Cook  until  cheese 
melts,  stirring  often.  With  salad  and  bread,  this  makes  a 
complete  meal. 

Diane  S.  Gillespie 


CHILLED  CUCUMBER-YOGURT  SOUP 

4  c.  peeled,  seeded  and  chopped  several  fresh  mint  leaves 

cucumber  1  Tbsp.  honey 

2  c.  water  1  V2  to  2  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  plain  yogurt  (can  use  low-fat)  %  tsp.  dill  weed 

1  clove  garlic  chopped  scallions  or  chives 

Puree  everything  together  in  the  blender.  Save  the  scallions  for 
the  garnish.  Serve  very  cold.  Makes  4  servings. 

Virginia  Palmer 


111596 


-  151  - 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

CUCUMBER  DILL  SOUP 

1  pt.  half  and  half  2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

2  c.  plain  yogurt  2  Tbsp.  scallions,  chopped 

2  medium  cucumbers,  peeled,  V2  tsp.  salt 

seeded  and  diced  Vs  to  V*  tsp.  white  pepper 

3  Tbsp.  minced  fresh  dill  weed  or 
1  Tbsp.  dry  dill  weed 

Combine  all  ingredients;  stir  well  (may  use  blender).   Garnish 
with  sliced  cucumber  and  dill  sprigs.  Chill  thoroughly.  Serves  4  to  6. 
Preparation  Time:  10  minutes.  Chilling  Time:  Several  hours. 

Betty  Broyles 

DOUG'S  SEAFOOD  BISQUE 

3  c.  seafood  (crab,  shrimp  and  2  potatoes,  diced 

whitefish)  1  can  cream  of  crab  soup 

2  Tbsp.  butter  1  V2  c.  milk  or  half  and  half 

1  c.  water  1  Tbsp.  Old  Bay  seasoning 

1  rib  celery,  chopped  pepper  to  taste 
1  onion,  diced 

Saute  seafood  in  butter  in  soup  pot;  remove.  Add  vegetables  and 
water  to  pot;  boil  20  minutes.  Add  soup  and  milk.  Add  seafood  and 
heat.  Season  with  Old  Bay  and  pepper.  Serves  4  to  6. 

Nancy  T.  Boyd 

HAMBURGER  VEGETABLE  CHOWDER 

V2  lb.  ground  lean  beef  2  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  canned  tomatoes  1A  c.  rice,  cooked 

V2  c.  diced  carrots  V2  tsp.  pepper 

Vz  c.  diced  celery  1  V2  c.  water 

1  small  onion,  chopped  1  c.  cubed  potatoes 

In  pressure  cooker  (without  lid),  brown  meat  and  drain.  Add  all 
other  ingredients.  Close  cover  securely  and  place  indicator  on  vent 
pipe.  Use  pressure  cooker  directions  for  pounds  of  pressure  for  vegeta- 
bles. Cook  15  minutes  after  control  jiggles. 

Martha  Jo  Wilson 


-  152- 


SOUPS  &   SALADS 

ITALIAN  STEW 

2  (32  oz.)  jars  Prego  or  Ragu  quartered  zucchini 

pasta  sauce  1  small  can  mushrooms 

2  (32  oz.)  jars  water  V2  c.  chopped  celery 

2  lb.  Italian  sausage  (uncooked),  V2  c.  chopped  onions 

broken  into  bite  size  pieces  2  cloves  garlic 

2  large  cans  whole  tomatoes,  1  tsp.  oregano 
drained  1  tsp.  basil 

quartered  yellow  squash  2  pkg.  cheese  tortellini 

In  a  large  Dutch  oven  or  saucepan,  pour  in  Prego,  water  and 
tomatoes.  Add  uncooked  sausage  and  uncooked  vegetables.  Add  tor- 
tellini last.  Cook  over  medium  heat  for  45  minutes.  Serve  very  hot. 

Sue  Bowser 

JEANNE'S  VIRGINIA  BRUNSWICK  STEW 

1  (3  lb.)  chicken  4  large  potatoes,  diced 

1  large  onion  1  pt.  corn 

V2  lb.  lean  ham  salt  to  taste 

3  pt.  tomatoes  1A  tsp.  pepper 

1  pt.  butter  beans  1  small  pod  red  pepper 

Simmer  chicken,  onion  and  ham  in  a  large  pot  with  water  to  cov- 
er for  2  hours.  Remove  chicken  and  pick  meat  from  bones.  Return 
meat  to  pot.  Add  remaining  ingredients;  simmer  for  1  hour. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 

MIDWESTERN  CHOWDER 

2  c.  diced  potatoes  1A  c.  margarine 
1A  c.  onion,  chopped  1A  c.  flour 

V*  c.  carrots,  diced  2  c.  milk 

V2  c.  celery,  diced  10  oz.  sharp  cheese 

1  tsp.  salt  1  (1  lb.)  can  creamed  corn 

Cook  the  first  5  ingredients  in  2  cups  of  water  for  10  minutes  or 
until  tender.  To  the  margarine,  flour  and  milk,  stir  in  sharp  cheese. 
Add  this  mixture  to  the  cooked  vegetables.  Stir  in  the  can  of  creamed 
corn.  Serve  immediately. 

Jessie  Blalock 


-  153- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

MUSHROOM-BARLEY  SOUP 

Vz  c.  raw  pearled  barley  3  Tbsp.  butter 

6  V2  c.  stock  or  water  2  cloves  minced  garlic 

1/2  to  1  tsp.  salt  1  c.  chopped  onion 

3  to  4  Tbsp.  tamari  (soy  sauce)  1  lb.  fresh  mushrooms,  sliced 

3  to  4  Tbsp.  dry  sherry  freshly  ground  black  pepper 

Cook  the  barley  in  1  Vi  cups  of  the  stock  or  water  until  tender. 
Add  the  remaining  stock  or  water,  tamari  and  sherry.  Saute  the  onion 
and  garlic  in  butter.  When  they  are  soft,  add  the  mushrooms  and  Vi 
teaspoon  salt.  When  all  is  tender,  add  to  barley,  being  sure  to  include 
the  liquid  the  vegetables  expressed  while  cooking.  Give  it  a  generous 
grinding  of  black  pepper  and  simmer  20  minutes,  covered,  over  the 
lowest  possible  heat.  Season  to  taste    Serves  6  to  8. 

Virginia  Palmer 

PEANUT  SOUP 

Vi  c.  butter  1  Tbsp.  flour 

1A  c.  minced  onion  4  c.  beef  bouillon 

1A  c.  chopped  celery  2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

1  c.  creamy  peanut  butter  Vz  c.  chopped  salted  peanuts 

In  top  of  double  boiler,  melt  butter.  Add  onion  and  celery;  saute 
until  tender.  Place  saucepan  over  boiling  water.  Blend  into  mixture 
peanut  butter  and  flour.  Stir  in  bouillon  and  lemon  juice;  cook  20  min- 
utes. Stir  occasionally.  Before  serving,  garnish  with  Vi  cup  peanuts. 
Serves  6  to  8. 

Gaye  Burton 

POTATO  SOUP 

6  potatoes,  cubed  and  peeled  1  tsp.  Lawry's  seasoned  salt 

1  stick  butter  or  margarine  1  tsp.  garlic  powder 

2  stalks  celery  pepper 

1  onion,  chopped  1  c.  skim  milk 

Saute  celery  and  onion  in  butter.  In  a  large  Dutch  oven  or  sauce- 
pan, put  potatoes.  Add  water  to  cover  2  inches  above  potatoes.  Add 
sauteed  onion  and  celery,  seasoned  salt,  pepper  and  garlic  powder. 
Simmer  until  potatoes  are  tender.  After  potatoes  are  done,  add  milk 
and  bring  to  a  boil.  Mash  slightly  and  add  more  butter.  Serve 
very  hot. 

Barbara  Sacra 

-154- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


SCANDINAVIAN  FRUIT  SOUP 


1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  dried  apricots, 

coarsely  chopped 
V2  c.  coarsely  chopped  prunes 
1  c.  seedless  raisins 
1  orange,  sliced  and  seeded 
1  lemon,  sliced  and  seeded 
3  to  4  Tbsp.  tapioca 


1  c.  sugar 

1  stick  cinnamon 

3  cooking  apples,  pared,  cored 

and  diced 
1  (16  oz.)  can  pitted  sour 

cherries  (undrained) 


Combine  the  first  8  ingredients;  cover  with  water  and  let  stand 
overnight.  In  the  morning,  add  2  cups  water  and  the  apples.  Cook 
over  medium  heat,  stirring,  until  fruit  is  soft.  Stir  in  cherries.  Serve 
hot  or  cold.  Yields  6  to  8  servings. 

Note:  May  be  used  as  a  first  course  or  as  a  dessert! 

Gaye  Burton 


-  155- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

SOUPE  A  L'OIGNON  GRATINEE 

(Onion  Soup;  Perhaps  the  Most  Famous  of  the  French  Soups) 

3  Tbsp.  butter  6  (10  V2  oz.)  cans  water 

1  V»  lb.  onions  (5  to  6  medium),  V2  lb.  Swiss  style  cheese  (such  as 
halved  and  thinly  sliced*  Gruyere  or  Emmenthaler), 

V2  tsp.  salt  grated  (about  1  c.) 

1A  tsp.  freshly  ground  pepper  8  slices  stale  or  toasted  French 

2  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour  bread** 

4  (10  V2  oz.)  cans  Campbell's 
beef  broth 

In  large  saucepan  or  5-quart  Dutch  oven,  heat  the  butter.  Add 
the  onion  and  cook  over  medium-high  to  high  heat,  stirring  occasion- 
ally, until  brown.  They  will  start  to  brown  in  10  to  20  minutes.  After 
another  20  to  25  minutes,  the  onions  should  be  dark  brown,  but  not 
black.  Season  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  Reduce  the  heat  to  medium 
and  stir  in  the  flour.  Brown  lightly  about  3  minutes,  stirring.  Add  the 
beef  broth  and  water;  increase  the  heat  to  high  and  bring  to  a  boil, 
about  15  minutes.  Reduce  the  heat  to  medium  and  simmer  for  30  min- 
utes. Skim  off  any  foam  or  butter  that  comes  to  the  surface.  (The  reci- 
pe can  be  prepared  ahead  to  this  point.  Let  cool  to  room  temperature; 
cover  and  refrigerate.  Bring  to  a  simmer  before  proceeding.) 

Preheat  the  broiler.  Heat  the  soup  to  a  simmer.  Ladle  the  soup 
into  the  bowls.  Cover  the  soup  with  the  bread.  Cover  the  bread  with 
the  grated  cheese.  Place  the  bowls  on  a  cookie  sheet  and  place  under 
the  broiler  until  the  cheese  has  browned,  5  to  7  minutes.  Serves  6  to  8. 

*This  is  a  good  number  to  start  with.  After  you  have  tried  the 
recipe,  you  may  decide  to  change  the  number  of  onions,  depending 
upon  your  taste  for  onions.  I  like  onions,  so  I  generally  put  more 
than  this. 

**The  number  of  bread  slices  you  need  will  depend  on  the  size 
of  your  soup  bowls  and  the  diameter  of  the  loaf  of  bread.  The  object 
is  to  cover  the  surface  of  the  soup  with  the  bread,  which  floats  to  sup- 
port the  cheese.  One  or  two  slices  per  bowl  is  usually  adequate. 

Fred  Garner 


-156- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


SPICY  VEGETABLE  SOUP 


1  lb.  ground  chuck  or  round  (I 
use  less) 

1  c.  chopped  onion 

2  cloves  garlic,  pressed 

1  (30  oz.)  jar  chunky  garden-style 
spaghetti  sauce 

1  (1 0  1/2  oz.)  can  beef  broth 
(undiluted) 

2  c.  water 


1  c.  diced  celery 

1  tsp.  sugar 

1  tsp.  salt 

1 2  tsp.  freshly  ground  pepper 

1  (10  oz.)  can  diced  tomatoes 

and  green  chiles* 
1  (16  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  mixed 

vegetables 


*Can  use  regular  diced  tomatoes. 

Cook  the  first  3  ingredients  in  a  large  pan  until  meat  is  browned. 
Stir  to  crumble;  drain  and  return  to  pan.  Add  spaghetti  sauce  and  the 
next  6  ingredients.  Bring  to  a  boil;  cover,  reduce  heat  and  simmer  for 
20  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Stir  in  tomatoes. 

Nancy  Wilson 


TACO  SOUP 


1  lb.  ground  beef 

1  can  corn 

1  can  tomato  sauce 

1  can  whole  tomatoes,  peeled 


1  can  kidney  or  pinto  beans 
1  pkg.  taco  seasoning 
1  to  2  c.  water 


Brown  beef;  drain  off  fat.  Add  to  the  beef  the  corn,  tomatoes, 
tomato  sauce  and  beans,  including  the  liquid  from  each.  Add  1  to  2 
cups  of  water.  Stir  in  taco  seasonings;  heat  well  and  serve.  Makes 
about  6  servings. 

Amy  Simpson 


-  157- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


TACO  SOUP 


2  lb.  ground  round 
1  onion,  chopped  fine 
1  can  chili  beans 
1  can  kidney  beans 
1  can  stewed  tomatoes 
1  can  tomatoes,  chopped 
1  can  corn  (Shoepeg  or  whole 
kernel) 


1  (4  oz.)  can  green  chilies  (mild), 

chopped 
1  pkg.  taco  mix 

1  pkg.  dry  Ranch  dressing  mix 

2  V*  c.  water 
grated  cheese 
Fritos 


Brown  beef  with  chopped  onion;  drain  fat,  if  any.  Add  other 
ingredients.  Do  not  drain  the  vegetables;  use  the  juice.  Simmer  for  Vi 
hour  or  more.  Top  with  grated  cheese  and  serve  with  Fritos  or  tortilla 
chips.  Very  good  when  left  over. 

Bonnie  Nelson 

VEGETABLE  BURGER  SOUP 


Va  lb.  ground  beef 

1  (16  oz.)  can  stewed  tomatoes 

1  (8  oz.)  can  tomato  sauce 

2  c.  water 


1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  mixed 

vegetables 
1  pkg.  dried  onion  soup  mix 
1  tsp.  sugar  (optional) 


Cook  beef  until  browned;  drain  off  drippings.  Stir  in  remaining 
ingredients  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Cover  and  reduce  heat;  simmer  for  30 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 

Recipe  from  my  daughter,  Nancy  Bloebaum. 

Jessie  Bialock 


-158- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


ACINI  DE  PEPE  SALAD 

(Pasta) 


1  c.  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  flour 

2  V2  tsp.  salt,  divided 

1  %  c.  pineapple  juice 

2  eggs,  well  beaten 
1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

3  qt.  water 
1  Tbsp.  oil 

1  (16  oz.)  pkg.  acini  de  pepe 
pasta 


1  (9  oz.)  carton  Cool  Whip 
3(11  oz.)  cans  mandarin 

oranges,  drained 

2  (20  oz.)  cans  pineapple  chunks, 
drained 

1  (20  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple, 

drained 
1  V2  c.  miniature  marshmallows 
1  c.  coconut 


Combine  sugar,  flour  and  Vi  teaspoon  salt.  Gradually  stir  in 
pineapple  juice  and  eggs.  Cook  over  moderate  heat,  stirring  until 
thickened.  Add  lemon  juice.  Cool  mixture  to  room  temperature. 
Bring  water,  2  teaspoons  salt  and  oil  to  boil.  Add  acini  de  pepe.  Cook 
at  rolling  boil  until  it  is  done;  drain.  Rinse  with  water;  drain  again  and 
cool.  Combine  egg  mixture  and  acini  de  pepe.  Mix  and  refrigerate 
overnight  in  airtight  container. 

Add  remaining  ingredients  and  mix.  Refrigerate  until  chilled  in 
airtight  container.  It  will  keep  for  1  week  in  container.  Makes  25 
servings. 

Esty  Vollrath 

BEST  EVER  POTATO  SALAD 


1  small  onion 

10  slices  cooked  bacon 

%  c.  mayonnaise 

1  Tbsp.  prepared  mustard 

2  tsp.  sugar 


1  tsp.  salt 

4  c.  potatoes,  cooked  and  diced 
4  hard-cooked  eggs,  chopped 

2  stalks  celery,  chopped 

V2  small  green  pepper,  chopped 


Cut  bacon  into  1-inch  pieces.  Cook  in  skillet  on  medium-low 
heat  until  crisp.  Drain  bacon,  reserving  2  tablespoons  drippings  in 
skillet.  Remove  skillet  from  heat.  Add  mayonnaise,  mustard,  sugar 
and  salt  to  drippings  in  the  pan  for  dressing;  mix  well. 

Combine  potatoes,  eggs,  celery,  onion  and  peppers  in  bowl.  Add 
dressing  and  toss.  Stir  in  bacon.  Cover  and  chill. 

Diane  S.  Gillespie 


159- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

BLUEBERRIES  AND  AVOCADO 

1  envelope  unflavored  gelatin  Vz  c.  sour  cream 

V2  c.  cold  water  Vs  c.  mayonnaise 

%  c.  boiling  water  1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  sugar  Vb  tsp.  pepper 

2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice,  divided  1  pt.  blueberries 
1  c.  mashed  avocado 

Soften  gelatin  in  cold  water;  dissolve  in  hot  water.  Add  sugar 
and  1  tablespoon  of  the  lemon  juice.  Chill  until  the  consistency  of 
unbeaten  egg  whites.  Mash  avocado  with  remaining  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice,  sour  cream,  mayonnaise  and  seasonings.  Combine  with 
gelatin  mixture.  Place  in  a  greased  4-cup  ring  mold.  Grease,  if 
desired.  Chill.  When  firm,  unmold  on  salad  greens.  Fill  center  with 
berries.  Add  dabs  of  mayonnaise  on  top. 

Caroline  Kennett 


BROCCOLI  CHICKEN  SALAD 

4  c.  chopped  cooked  chicken  (4  1  lb.  fresh  broccoli,  cut  in  florets 

breast  halves)  %  c.  light  or  nonfat  mayonnaise 

1A  c.  sliced  pimento  stuffed  V*  tsp.  curry  powder 

olives  1/2  c.  raisins  (optional) 

Mix  chicken,  olives  and  broccoli.  Thoroughly  mix  mayonnaise 
and  curry  powder.  Combine  all  ingredients  and  toss  well.  Cover  and 
refrigerate. 

Betty  Jefferson  Harris 


BROCCOLI  SALAD 

1  bunch  broccoli  1  can  water  chestnuts,  drained 

1  small  stalk  celery,  chopped  1  bunch  fresh  green  onions, 

1  small  can  mushrooms  or  %  lb.  chopped 

fresh  mushrooms,  diced  1  small  jar  Italian  dressing 

Marinate  all  ingredients  overnight  in  dressing.  Stir  occasionally. 

Paul  E.  Marquette 


-160 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

BROCCOLI  SALAD 

2  heads  broccoli,  cut  in  tiny  V2  onion  or  3  spring  onions,  cut 

florets  fine 

72  c.  Cheddar  cheese  V2  c.  golden  raisins 

8  slices  crisp  bacon,  crumbled  V2  c.  pecans,  cut  small 

and  added  just  before  serving 

Dressing: 

1  c.  mayonnaise  V*  c.  sugar 

1/8  c.  cider  vinegar 

Mix  as  listed,  adding  crumbled  bacon  just  before  serving. 

Dot  Owens  (Mrs.  John  F.) 
Gladys  Danielson 


BROCCOLI  SALAD 

1  (16  oz.)  bag  broccoli  slaw  salad  V2  tsp.  each:  salt  and  pepper 

V2  bunch  green  onions,  chopped  1  pkg.  Ramen  noodles 

3  Tbsp.  white  vinegar  1  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 

V2  c.  olive  oil  V2  c.  sunflower  seeds,  chopped 
3  Tbsp.  sugar 

Combine  broccoli  slaw  salad  with  green  onions;  set  aside.  Com- 
bine vinegar,  olive  oil,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  and  flavor  packet  from 
Ramen  noodles.  Pour  over  broccoli  mix  and  chill  1  hour.  Saute  sun- 
flower seeds  and  Ramen  noodles  (broken  into  pieces)  in  butter  or  mar- 
garine until  lightly  browned.  Toss  with  salad  just  before  serving. 

Debbie  Hartley 
Zane  Smith 


BROCCOLI  SLAW 

1  pkg.  broccoli  slaw  (in  salad  V4  c.  raisins 

section  in  supermarket)  2  Tbsp.  cider  vinegar 

V2  red  onion,  finely  chopped  V*  to  V2  c.  sugar  (to  taste) 

1  c.  light  mayonnaise  6  to  8  slices  crisp  bacon, 
1  c.  sunflower  seeds  crumbled 

Mix  all  ingredients  gently.  Refrigerate  for  several  hours  for  fla- 
vors to  blend. 

Betty  Bridges 
Ann  Harris 


-  161  - 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


BROWN  RICE  SEAFOOD  SALAD 


V2  lb.  shrimp,  cooked  and  drained 
V2  lb.  bay  scallops  or  sealegs, 

cooked 
2  c.  cooked  brown  rice 

Dressing: 

1  c.  plain  yogurt 

V2  c.  seeded,  chopped  cucumber 

1A  c.  onions,  finely  chopped 


V»  c.  red  pepper,  cut  in  strips 
V*  c.  cooked  green  peas 
V*  c.  sunflower  seeds 
Va  c.  raisins 


3  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
1  Tbsp.  soy  sauce 


Dressing:  Mix  separately  from  other  ingredients. 
After  making  the  dressing  and  mixing  the  other  ingredients  in 
a  bowl,  toss  all  of  it  together  and  ref  igerate  at  least  an  hour  to  blend. 

Beverly  Buchert 

CASHEW  SALAD 


1  c.  raisins 

1  c.  cashews  (salted  halves) 

V2  head  cauliflower 

1/2  bunch  broccoli 


1  lb.  bacon 

1  c.  mayonnaise 

2  Tbsp.  vinegar 
V2  c.  sugar 


Cut  cauliflower  and  broccoli  into  small  pieces.  Add  raisins  and 
cashews.  Mix  the  mayonnaise,  vinegar  and  sugar  together  for  dress- 
ing; pour  over  vegetables  and  mix.  Cook  bacon  until  crisp  and  crum- 
ble. Add  to  salad  just  before  serving. 

Margaret  Yerby 


-162- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

CHERRY  PRETZEL  SALAD 

Crust: 

2  c.  coarsely  crushed  pretzels  1A  c.  sugar 

3/4  c.  melted  margarine 

Cream  Cheese  Layer: 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  1  (8  oz.)  carton  whipped  topping 
1/2  c.  sugar 

Gelatin  Layer: 

2  (3  oz.)  pkg.  cherry  gelatin  2  (21  oz.)  cans  cherry  pie  filling 
2  c.  boiling  water 

Crust:  Combine  ingredients  and  press  into  a  9  x  13-inch  pan. 
Bake  at  350°  for  9  minutes.  Cool. 

Cream  Cheese  Layer:  Beat  cream  cheese  until  creamy.  Add  sug- 
ar, beating  until  well  blended.  Fold  in  whipped  topping.  Spread  over 
cooled  pretzel  crust. 

Gelatin  Layer:  Mix  hot  water  with  gelatin.  Add  cherry  pie  filling. 
Stir  until  cherries  are  separated  and  gelatin  is  soft  set.  (Can  put  in 
refrigerator  for  20  to  30  minutes.)  Spread  over  cream  cheese  layer  and 
refrigerate  until  firm. 

Esty  Vollrath 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

2  c.  diced  chicken  3  Tbsp.  mayonnaise  (can  use 

2  apples,  diced  low-fat) 

1  c.  white  seedless  grapes,  V4  tsp.  curry  powder 

halved  1A  tsp.  chopped  almonds 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Serve  on  salad  greens. 

Cookie  Bryan 


-  163- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


CHRISTMAS  SALAD 


1  (6  oz.)  pkg.  raspberry  Jell-0 

1  %  c.  boiling  water 

1  can  whole  cranberry  sauce 

%  c.  cran-raspberry  juice 

1  (20  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple 


8  oz.  cream  cheese 
Vz  c.  sugar 
8  oz.  sour  cream 
1  c.  chopped  pecans 


Dissolve  raspberry  Jell-0  in  boiling  water.  Add  cranberry  sauce; 
mix  well  to  dissolve.  Add  crushed  pineapple  (not  drained)  mix  well. 
Pour  into  a  13  x  9  x  2-inch  pan  and  refrigerate. 

Topping:  Soften  cream  cheese  in  sugar.  Add  sour  cream.  Mix 
and  spread  on  congealed  salad.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts. 

Wanita  Kendrick 

CHICKEN  AND  SPINACH  TOSSED  SALAD 

(This  always  gets  oh's  and  ah's!) 


1/2  lb.  fresh  spinach 

2  c.  diced,  cooked  chicken 

breast 
2  c.  fresh  broccoli  florets 

Dressing: 

2  Tbsp.  soy  sauce 

3  Tbsp.  wine  vinegar 
3  Tbsp.  vegetable  oil 

Topping: 
V*  c.  chow  mein  noodles 


1  (8  oz.)  can  water  chestnuts, 

drained 
4  slices  bacon,  cooked  crisp, 

drained  and  crumbled 


1  tsp.  minced  onion 
1  tsp.  sugar  (scant) 
1  tsp.  ground  pepper 


1A  c.  Parmesan  cheese  (fresh  is 
best) 


Combine  the  first  5  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl.  Toss  with  dress- 
ing. Sprinkle  with  lA  cup  Parmesan  cheese  and  Va  cup  chow  mein 
noodles. 

Caroline  Kennett 


-164- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


COLESLAW 


2  bags  coleslaw 
4  chopped  scallions 
2  pkg.  Ramen  noodles 
1  V2  c.  sliced  almonds 
4  Tbsp.  sesame  seed 


6  Tbsp.  rice  vinegar 

1  c.  oil 

4  Tbsp.  sugar 

2  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  pepper 


Toast  almonds  (easy  in  microwave).  Mix  ingredients  together 
the  night  before  serving  to  ensure  soft  noodles.  Do  not  use  seasoning 
pack  in  Ramen  noodles. 

Beth  Shutts 

CONFETTI  SALAD 


1/2  lb.  spiral  pasta 

1  stalk  celery  with  leaves,  finely 

chopped 
1  small  can  sliced  water 

chestnuts,  drained 
Vi  purple  onion,  finely  chopped 
V*  c.  red  pepper,  finely  chopped 

Dressing: 

Vb  c.  olive  oil 

1  Tbsp.  white  wine  vinegar 

1  tsp.  sugar 

V*  c.  mayonnaise 


1/4  c.  green  pepper,  finely 
chopped 

1  carrot,  diced 

2  Tbsp.  finely  chopped  chives 
2  Tbsp.  finely  chopped  fresh 

parsley 


V*  c.  sour  cream 

salt  to  taste 

1/2  lb.  shrimp  or  chicken  (optional) 


Cook  pasta;  drain.  Transfer  pasta  to  a  large  bowl.  Add  the  next 
8  ingredients. 

Dressing:  Whisk  ingredients  together  in  medium  bowl.  Toss  well 
with  pasta,  then  cover  and  refrigerate  2  hours. 

Remove  from  refrigerator  30  minutes  before  serving.  If  desired, 
add  shrimp  or  chicken  before  serving. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 


111596 


-  165- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

CONGEALED  ASPARAGUS  SALAD 

2  pkg.  plain  gelatin  %  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  V2  c.  water  1  (No.  3)  can  cut  asparagus 

1/2  tsp.  salt  spears 

1  c.  sugar  2  Tbsp.  drained,  chopped 

1  c.  chopped  celery  pimento 

V*  c.  vinegar  2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Soak  gelatin  in  Vi  cup  cold  water.  Heat  to  boiling  the  remaining 
cup  of  water  with  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  salt.  Add  gelatin  mixture  to 
hot  liquid  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Cool.  Add  remaining  ingredients, 
including  the  liquid  from  the  asparagus.  Pour  into  a  7  x  11-inch  dish; 
chill  until  set.  To  serve,  cut  into  squares.  Place  on  lettuce  and  garnish 
with  mayonnaise. 

Carol  Gilchist 


CONGEALED  FRUIT  SALAD 

1  small  pkg.  lemon  Jell-0  1  large  can  fruit  cocktail 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese  1  small  container  Cool  Whip 

2  c.  small  marshmallows  1  c.  chopped  pecans 
2  cans  apricots  with  peels 

Drain  juice  from  fruit,  keeping  2  cups  of  the  juice.  Heat  the  juice 
and  dissolve  the  Jell-O  in  the  juice.  Add  marshmallows  and  cream 
cheese;  cool.  Add  the  fruit.  Stir  in  rest  of  ingredients.  Put  in  a  9  x  13- 
inch  pan.  Freeze. 

Elva  Ferguson 


CRANBERRY  SALAD 

2  small  pkg.  cherry  jello  1  pt.  sour  cream 

1  can  whole  cranberry  sauce  2  c.  boiling  water 

Dissolve  jello  in  boiling  water.   Add  cranberry  sauce;  let  cool. 
Add  sour  cream.  Chill. 

Rosalie  Bailey 


-166 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


FROZEN  CRANBERRY  SALAD 


1  can  Eagle  Brand  milk 
Va  c.  lemon  juice 
1  can  whole  berry  cranberry 
sauce 


1  large  can  crushed  pineapple, 

drained 
8  oz.  Cool  Whip 
72  c.  nuts,  broken 


In  a  large  bowl,  mix  Eagle  Brand  milk  and  lemon  juice.  Add 
cranberry  sauce  and  pineapple;  mix.  Fold  in  Cool  Whip  and  nuts. 
Pour  into  9  x  13-inch  pan  or  lined  muffin  tins  and  freeze.  To  serve, 
cut  into  squares  or  remove  from  muffin  liners.  Serves  12. 

Pat  Acey 

GARBANZO  BEAN  SALAD 


1  can  garbanzo  beans,  rinsed 

and  drained 
Vs  c.  onion,  chopped 
1  tomato,  chopped 
1/2  c.  olive  oil 


Vb  c.  wine  vinegar 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced 

Vz  tsp.  oregano 

V2  tsp.  salt 

dash  of  pepper 


Mix  ingredients  and  marinate  for  at  least  24  hours.  Serve  on  bed 
of  lettuce. 

Beryl  Bates 

GRAPEFRUIT  ASPIC 


4  Tbsp.  unflavored  gelatin 
1  c.  cold  water 
1  c.  boiling  water 
%  c.  sugar 


3  grapefruits  (pulp  and  juice) 
1  (8  oz.)  can  undrained  crushed 

pineapple 
Vz  c.  slivered  almonds 


Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water,  then  dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Add 
sugar,  grapefruit,  pineapple  and  almonds.  Pour  into  a  1  Vi-quart  mold 
or  an  8  x  11-inch  Pyrex  dish. 

Lucy  Spradlin 


-  167- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

GRAPEFRUIT  AVOCADO  CHANTILLY 

4  avocados,  halved  1  c.  seedless  grapes 

3  or  4  grapefruits,  sectioned  1A  c.  sliced  scallions 

Chantilly  Tarragon  Dressing: 

2  eggs  V»  tsp.  salt 

3  Tbsp.  tarragon  vinegar  1A  tsp.  tarragon  (dried  leaf) 
1  Tbsp.  grapefruit  juice  dash  of  Tabasco 

1  tsp.  sugar  1  c.  heavy  cream,  whipped 

Scoop  out  most  of  avocado  and  cut  into  cubes,  leaving  a  shell. 
Combine  cubes  with  remaining  ingredients  in  bowl;  mix  lightly.  Spoon 
into  shells  and  serve  with  dressing. 

Chantilly  Tarragon  Dressing:  Beat  eggs  until  frothy.  Combine 
in  top  of  double  boiler  with  remaining  ingredients,  except  cream. 
Cook,  stirring  constantly,  over  boiling  water  until  thickened.  Cool 
completely.  Fold  in  whipped  cream.  Makes  2  Vi  cups  (enough  for  8 
servings). 

Note:  Be  sure  to  buy  avocados  ahead  and  let  ripen. 

Emma  Jean  Pointer 


HONEY  COLESLAW 

V2  c.  honey  1  large  head  cabbage,  coarsely 

%  c.  vinegar  grated 

1  tsp.  salt  1  (7  oz.)  can  pimento 

Vi  tsp.  white  pepper  1  thin  sliced  green  pepper 

Vb  c.  vegetable  oil  1  thin  sliced  medium  onion 

2  Tbsp.  sugar 

Bring  the  first  6  ingredients  to  a  boil.  Pour  over  cabbage,  pimen- 
to, green  pepper  and  onion.  Toss  together;  marinate  overnight. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 


168- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

IMOGENE'S  GOURMET  SPINACH  SALAD 

Dressing: 

1  pt.  sour  cream  V2  c.  vinegar 

4  tsp.  dry  mustard  Vk  c.  sugar 

1  tsp.  salt  3  Tbsp.  oil 

1  tsp.  curry  powder  1A  c.  horseradish 

Salad: 

2  lb.  fresh  spinach  1  (12  oz.)  carton  cottage  cheese 
1  c.  pecans 

Dressing:  Mix  ingredients  together,  then  shake  in  a  jar. 
Salad:  Wash  the  spinach;  dry  and  chill.  Sprinkle  pecans  and  cot- 
tage cheese  over  spinach.  Toss  with  dressing. 

Caroline  Kennett 

KOREAN  SALAD 

1  cello  pkg.  fresh  spinach  or  8  slices  crisp  fried  bacon, 

about  1  lb.  crumbled 

1  (16  oz.)  can  bean  sprouts,  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  diced 
drained  well 

Dressing: 

2/3  c.  salad  oil  V*  c.  vinegar 

V3  c.  catsup  1  medium  onion,  thinly  sliced 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  pinch  of  salt 

Dressing:  Make  dressing  in  the  morning  to  use  in  the  evening, 
shaking  several  times  during  the  day. 

Clean  spinach  well;  drain.  Break  into  bite  size  pieces.  Toss  with 
sprouts,  eggs  and  bacon.  Pour  dressing  over  and  serve  immediately. 

Esty  Vollrath 


-  169 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

LAYERED  CHERRY  CHEESE  MOLDED  SALAD 

1  envelope  Knox  gelatine  1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  1  envelope  Dream  Whip  dessert 

1  can  cherry  pie  filling  topping 

1  (3  oz.)  pkg.  cherry  Jell-0  2  (3  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese, 

1  c.  cold  water  softened 

%  c.  boiling  water 

Mix  Knox  in  1  cup  cold  water  in  saucepan;  heat  and  stir  until 
dissolved.  Stir  in  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  cool.  Dissolve  cherry 
Jell-O  in  boiling  water.  Stir  in  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  pie  filling. 
Pour  XA  cherry  mixture  in  6  V2-cup  mold.  Chill  until  almost  firm.  (I 
put  it  in  the  freezer;  it  firms  up  faster  for  the  many  layers.)  Leave 
remainder  at  room  temperature. 

Prepare  topping  as  package  instructs.  Beat  in  cream  cheese. 
Fold  in  cooled  Knox.  Spoon  lA  over  almost  firm  cherry  layer.  Chill 
until  almost  firm.  Leave  rest  at  room  temperature.  Repeat  layers, 
ending  up  with  cherry  layer.  Watch  so  Jell-O  doesn't  get  too  firm 
between  layers. 

Unmold  onto  circular  dish.  Surround  with  lettuce.  Garnish  with 
parsley  in  the  center.  I  run  the  blade  of  a  knife  around  the  inside  and 
outside  of  mold  after  I  turn  it  out  on  the  dish  to  make  the  layers  dis- 
tinct. A  very  pretty  salad  for  a  special  occasion! 

Pat  Leeming 

MARINATED  VEGETABLES 

1  c.  corn  oil  2  (16  oz.)  cans  whole  baby 

1  c.  cider  vinegar  carrots,  drained 

1/3  c.  sugar  Vfe  c.  finely  chopped  onion 

4  tsp.  salt  3  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  broccoli 

Vt.  tsp.  pepper  spears,  cooked  and  drained 

2  (16  oz.)  cans  red  kidney  beans, 
drained 

Mix  the  first  5  ingredients.  Place  beans  and  carrots  in  a  13  x  9 
x  2-inch  dish.  Sprinkle  with  onion  and  top  with  broccoli.  Pour  oil  mix- 
ture over  vegetables  and  cover.  Refrigerate  overnight.  Allow  a  day  for 
full  flavor  to  develop.  Drain  and  arrange  on  platter.  Serves  about  12. 

Helen  Twine 


-170- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

MARINATED  VEGETABLES 

tomatoes  green  beans 

cucumbers  mushrooms 

Vidalia  onions  Italian  dressing 

broccoli  Martinique  French  dressing 

carrots  dill  weed 

cauliflower 

Use  any  fresh  vegetables  listed  or  others.  Peel  and  slice  or  quar- 
ter tomatoes.  Thinly  slice  cucumbers  and  onions.  Blanch  broccoli  10 
minutes  or  less. 

Marinate  several  hours  or  overnight  in  any  Italian  dressing. 
Drain  well;  sprinkle  with  dill  weed  and  drizzle  Martinique  French 
dressing  over  all.  Arrange  artistically  on  a  large  platter.  Do  your 
thing! 

Betty  Broyles 

MARINATED  VEGETABLE  SALAD 

1  can  LeSueur  green  peas,  1  (2  oz.)  jar  pimientos 

drained  1  small  onion,  chopped  (about  1 

1  can  white  Shoe  Peg  corn,  c.) 

drained  1  green  or  red  pepper,  chopped 

1  can  French-style  green  beans, 
drained 

Sauce: 

%  c.  sugar  or  6  packs  artificial  3  Tbsp.  vegetable  oil 

sweetener  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Vz  c.  vinegar 

Mix  together  the  first  6  ingredients  (vegetables)  in  a  large  bowl. 

Sauce:  Mix  together  the  ingredients  and  boil  for  1  minute.  Pour 

over  the  vegetables  in  the  bowl.  Cover  and  chill.  Serves  6  to  8  people. 

Ann  Harris 
Virginia  Palmer 


111596 


-171  - 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


MARINATED  VEGETABLE  SALAD 


1  can  French  green  beans, 

drained 
1  can  baby  peas,  drained 
1  can  white  corn,  drained 

Dressing: 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  pepper 

%  c.  white  wine  vinegar 


1  chopped  green  pepper 
1  chopped  onion 
1  c.  chopped  celery 
1  small  jar  pimento 


1/2  c.  Crisco  vegetable  oil 
1  Tbsp.  water 
1  c.  sugar 


Drain  the  first  3  ingredients.  Add  the  next  4  ingredients. 
Dressing:  Boil  ingredients  together.  Pour  on  vegetables  and  mar- 
inate 12  hours.  Store  in  marinade.  Can  be  kept  1  week  in  refrigerator. 

Chris  and  Chuck  Crouch 

PASTA  SALAD  FOR  A  LARGE  CROWD 


2  lb.  small  shells 

1  pkg.  cherry  tomatoes 

3  stalks  celery,  chopped 
1  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  hard  salami,  sliced 

in  bite  size  pieces 
1/4  lb.  pepperoni,  sliced  in  bite 

size  pieces 

Dressing: 

1  c.  olive  oil 
%  c.  vinegar 


1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  Provolone  cheese, 
sliced  in  bite  size  pieces 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  Mozzarella  cheese, 
sliced  in  bite  size  pieces 

1  bunch  green  onions 

4  (2  V*  oz.)  cans  sliced  black 
olives 

1  (10  oz.)  jar  salad  green  olives 


1  tsp.  salt  (optional) 
1  tsp.  pepper 


Cook  shells  according  to  directions  on  box.  Run  cold  water  over 
cooked  shells  to  cool  them  (do  not  overcook).  Put  shells  in  a  very  large 
bowl.  Add  all  the  other  ingredients,  except  tomatoes.  Stir. 

Dressing:  Mix  together  and  pour  over  shells.  Chill.  Add  the 
tomatoes  and  serve. 

We  usually  make  the  day  before  and  wait  until  we're  ready  to 
serve  to  add  tomatoes. 

Bill  and  Connee  Walsh 


-  172 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


PEA  SALAD 


2  (6  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  peas,  thawed 
2  c.  chopped  celery 
1A  c.  chopped  onion 
12  slices  cooked  bacon, 

crumbled 
V2  c.  chopped  salted  cashew  nuts 


V2  c.  sour  cream 

V2  c.  mayonnaise 

V*  tsp.  sugar 

!4  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1A  tsp.  steak  sauce 

1  tsp.  salt 


Mix  together  all  ingredients.  Refrigerate  until  serving  time. 

Marilyn  Nicholson 

POLYNESIAN  CHICKEN  SALAD 


3  c.  chopped  cooked  chicken 

1  (15  V2  oz.)  can  crushed 
pineapple,  drained 

\U  c.  plus  2  tsp.  flaked  coconut 
(optional) 

2  stalks  celery,  thinly  sliced 
1  tsp.  curry  powder 

V*  tsp.  salt 


%  c.  light  mayonnaise 

Va  c.  toasted  slivered  almonds 

1  banana,  sliced 

lettuce  leaves 

1  (1 1  oz.)  can  mandarin  oranges, 
drained 

2  Tbsp.  coconut,  toasted 
(optional) 


Combine  the  first  7  ingredients;  toss  lightly.  Cover  and  chill  2 
hours.  Just  before  serving,  add  almonds  and  banana.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves.  Garnish  with  mandarin  oranges  and  toasted  coconut.  Makes 
4  to  6  servings. 

This  is  delicious  without  coconut,  for  those  who  must  limit 
cholesterol. 

Martha  Jo  Wilson 

RICE  ARTICHOKE  SALAD 


1  Y2  c.  uncooked  rice 
1  can  chicken  broth 

1  can  water 

2  jars  marinated  artichokes, 
drained  and  chopped 

4  oz.  ripe  olives,  chopped 


Va  c.  green  pepper,  chopped 
Va  c.  stuffed  (with  pimentos) 

green  olives 
Va  c.  mayonnaise 
1  Vs  tsp.  curry 


Cook  rice  in  chicken  broth  and  water;  cool.  Add  remaining 
ingredients  and  chill.  Can  be  made  the  day  before  and  stored  in  the 
refrigerator.  Diced  chicken  can  be  added  to  make  a  main  dish  salad. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 


-  173- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

RICE  SALAD 

1  pkg.  chicken  Rice-A-Roni  2  jars  marinated  artichokes, 

3  chopped  green  onions  chopped 

Vi  c.  chopped  green  pepper  1  jar  artichoke  liquid 

8  to  12  chopped  green  olives  Vz  c.  mayonnaise 

Cook  rice  according  to  directions  on  packet;  cool.  Add  onions, 
pepper,  olives  and  artichokes  to  the  rice.  Mix  the  jar  of  artichoke  liq- 
uid with  the  mayonnaise.  Pour  over  the  rice  mixture  and  mix  well. 
Chill. 

Libby  Holt 

RICE  SALAD 

1  V2  c.  rice  (uncooked)  1A  c.  liquid  from  peas 

2  V2  c.  canned  small  green  peas  2  %  tsp.  salt 
(save  liquid)  3,4  tsp.  pepper 

1  V2  c.  chopped  celery  Vb  c.  minced  onion 

%  c.  mushrooms,  sliced  2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  (more  if 

%  c.  mayonnaise  desired) 

Cook  rice  as  package  directs;  cool.  Mix  in  peas,  celery  and  mush- 
rooms. Mix  mayonnaise,  liquid  from  peas,  salt,  pepper,  onion  and 
lemon  juice;  pour  over  rice  mixture  and  mix.  Chill  and  serve. 

Recipe  from  Martha  Barnes. 

Martha  Jo  Wilson 

SWEET  AND  SOUR  SALAD 

1  can  mandarin  oranges,  drained  V*  c.  red  onion,  sliced 

1  small  pkg.  slivered  almonds  1  head  lettuce 
%  c.  sliced  mushrooms 

Dressing: 

V2  tsp.  salt  vi  c.  oil 

dash  of  pepper  2  dashes  Tabasco 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  1  Tbsp.  chopped  parsley 
2  Tbsp.  red  wine  vinegar 

Put  salad  ingredients  into  bowl  and  mix  well.  Pour  dressing  on 
salad  and  toss. 

Cookie  Bryan 


-174- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 


SUMMERTIME  FRUIT  SALAD 


1  (6  oz.)  can  frozen  lemonade 
concentrate,  thawed  and 
undiluted 

Vi  c.  orange  marmalade 
4  Tbsp.  Triple  Sec 

2  V2  c.  melon  balls  (cantaloupe, 
honeydew  and  watermelon) 


1  c.  halved  strawberries 

1  c.  pineapple,  peeled  and  cubed 

1  1/2  c.  seedless  grapes 

1  Vz  c.  other  assorted  berries 

(blueberries,  cherries, 

blackberries,  etc.) 


Combine  lemonade  concentrate,  marmalade  and  Triple  Sec;  stir 
well.  Combine  fruit  in  a  large  container;  pour  lemonade  mixture  over 
fruit,  stirring  gently.  Cover  and  chill  at  least  2  hours.  Serve  in  scooped 
out  watermelon  half  or  a  glass  bowl  for  a  beautiful  presentation.  This 
makes  a  wonderful  summertime  dessert  as  well  as  a  salad. 


Malinda  Connell 


TACO  SALAD 


First  Layer: 

1  (8  oz.)  can  bean  dip 

Second  Layer: 

2  large  or  3  small  avocados 
1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Third  Layer: 

Vs  c.  mayonnaise 
1  c.  sour  cream 

Fourth  Layer: 

1  (3  oz.)  can  chopped  ripe  olives 
1/2  c.  chopped  green  onion 
1  c.  chopped  tomatoes 


V2  tsp.  salt 
1A  tsp.  pepper 


1  pkg.  taco  seasoning 


8  oz.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
nachos,  Fritos  or  Doritos 


Buy  avocados  3  to  4  days  ahead  of  use.  Let  ripen  in  brown  paper 
bag.  Peel  tomatoes;  squeeze  seeds  and  watery  part  out.  Drain,  using 
firm  part  of  fruit.  Chop  into  small  pieces. 

Spread  bean  dip  onto  flat  glass  or  china  plate.  Mix  ingredients 
for  second  layer;  spread  over  bean  dip.  Mix  ingredients  for  third  layer; 
spread  over  the  second  layer.  Scatter  olives,  onion  and  tomatoes  over 
top.  Sprinkle  cheese  over  top.  Serve  with  selected  chips. 

Hud  Clark 


-175- 


SOUPS  &  SALADS 

TASTY  FRUIT  SALAD 

1  c.  sour  cream  1  c.  orange  sections,  halved 

Vi  tsp.  cinnamon  1  c.  banana  slices 

1  c.  Kraft  miniature  1  c.  grape  halves 
marshmallows 

Combine  sour  cream  and  cinnamon;  set  aside.  Add  marshmal- 
lows and  fruit;  mix  lightly.  Chill.  Makes  6  servings. 

Mary  Walker 

TOMATO  AND  CUCUMBER  SALAD 

1  large  cucumber  Vfe  c.  white  vinegar 

1  medium  tomato  1  tsp.  salt 

1  medium  onion  (optional)  dash  of  pepper 

V*  c.  sugar  2  Tbsp.  parsley,  chopped 

Slice  cucumber,  tomato  and  onion  very  thin.  Mix  remaining 
ingredients  and  pour  over  vegetables.  Chill.  Serves  4. 

Chris  and  Chuck  Crouch 

YELLOW  SQUASH  MARINADE 

5  medium  yellow  squash  %  c.  sugar  or  less  to  taste 

V2  c.  chopped  green  or  red  1  tsp.  salt 

pepper  1  clove  garlic,  crushed 

V2  c.  sliced  green  onions  %  tsp.  black  pepper 

V2  c.  chopped  celery  Vb  c.  vegetable  oil 

2  Tbsp.  wine  vinegar  %  c.  cider  vinegar 

Combine  vegetables  in  a  large  bowl.  Combine  remaining  ingre- 
dients and  pour  over  vegetables.  Chill  at  least  12  hours,  stirring  occa- 
sionally. Drain  and  serve.  Keeps  well. 

Betty  Bridges 

YOGURT  SALAD 

2  (8  oz.)  cartons  orange  mandarin  Vz  c.  sugar 

yogurt  V2  c.  chopped  nuts 

%  c.  cranberry  relish  (kind  with 
orange  in  it) 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Put  muffin  liners  in  muffin  tins. 
Fill  with  mixture  and  freeze.  Makes  about  12  individual  salads. 

Pat  Gore 

-176- 


M&  W3hat 


1115-96 


THIS  "N"  THAT 


APPLE  CIDER 

1  qt.  apple  cider  V2  to  1  c.  brown  sugar 

1  (12  oz.)  can  frozen  orange  juice  3  or  4  whole  cloves 

concentrate,  thawed 

Mix  and  heat  to  boiling  point.  Add  whole  cloves  and  simmer 
until  flavor  is  strong  enough  for  your  taste.  Remove  cloves.  May  be 
served  hot  or  iced.  Can  be  reheated.  Keeps  well. 

Recipe  from  Ruby  Rich. 

Faye  Briggs 


BEAN  AND  CORN  SALSA 

1  small  can  com,  drained  %  c.  salsa 

1  can  black  beans,  drained  V*  c.  chopped  onion 

1  c.  chopped  green  pepper  2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

1  c.  chopped  red  pepper  1  Tbsp.  chopped  parsley 

1  c.  shredded  Monterey  Jack  1  tsp.  ground  cumin 

cheese  with  jalapeno  peppers  V2  tsp.  garlic  powder 

Combine  and  mix  all  ingredients.  May  be  served  on  lettuce  as 
a  salad  or  with  tortilla  chips. 

Cookie  Bryan 


BEST  EVER  DIRTY  RICE 

1  c.  long  grain  rice  3  Tbsp.  butter 

1  can  Campbell's  French  onion  1  tsp.  salt 

soup  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

1  can  Campbell's  beef  broth  1  to  2  bay  leaves 

bouillon 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  bake  in  Pam-sprayed  casserole  dish  at 
350°  for  1  hour,  uncovered.  Check  from  time  to  time;  if  starts  to  dry 
out,  add  a  little  water  and  cover. 

Faye  Briggs 


-111  - 


THIS  "N"  THAT 

CANDIED  DILL  PICKLES 

1  qt.  whole  dill  pickles  2  Tbsp.  vinegar 

2  c.  sugar  2  Tbsp.  mixed  pickling  spices 

Drain  pickles  and  slice  them  about  V4-inch  thick.  Mix  sugar  and 
pickling  spices  and  pour  over  the  sliced  pickles.  Stir  gently  with  wood- 
en spoon.  Let  stand  at  room  temperature  until  it  liquifies  (about  4 
hours),  stirring  occasionally.  Put  pickles  and  liquid  into  jars  and  let 
stand  in  refrigerator  for  4  to  5  days  before  eating.  Keep  refrigerated. 
Very  good. 

Esty  Vollrath 

CHILI  FOR  HOT  DOGS 

1  lb.  hamburger  or  ground  chuck  1  c.  water 

8  oz.  tomato  catsup  Ve  tsp.  black  pepper 

1/z  small  box  chili  powder 

Better  if  prepared  a  day  in  advance  and  excess  grease  is  removed. 
Combine  water  with  hamburger;  cook  until  all  the  water  is  gone.  Add 
chili  powder  and  tomato  catsup;  simmer.  If  not  the  right  consistency, 
add  water  (up  to  1  cup).  Put  on  hot  dogs  in  buns  and  enjoy. 

Virginia  R.  Bell 
Pat  Gore 


CRANBERRY-APPLE  CASSEROLE 

3  c.  tart  apples,  peeled  and  diced  V2  c.  brown  sugar 

2  c.  fresh  whole  cranberries  Vz  c.  flour 

1  c.  sugar  1  V»  c.  rolled  oats 

1  c.  pecans,  chopped  Vz  c.  melted  butter 

Mix  apples,  cranberries  and  sugar  together;  put  into  10  x  13-inch 
pan.  Mix  pecans,  sugar,  flour,  oats  and  butter  together.  Sprinkle  over 
fruit.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour. 

Ann  Harris 


-178- 


THIS  "N"  THAT 

CRANBERRY  RELISH 

2  lb.  fresh  cranberries  3  c.  cider  vinegar 

2  lb.  canned  pears,  diced  1  Vfe  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  (15  oz.)  box  seedless  raisins  1  V2  tsp.  cinnamon 
4  c.  sugar 

Combine  all  ingredients,  except  pears.  Simmer  until  cranberries 
pop  (about  10  minutes).  Cool  slightly  and  add  diced  pears.  Store  in 
airtight  glass  jars.  Yields  2  quarts. 

Margaret  Yerby 

FRIDAY  NIGHT  FUDGE 

2  c.  sugar  Vi  tsp.  salt 

%  c.  milk  2  Tbsp.  butter 

V3  c.  cocoa  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

2  Tbsp.  corn  syrup 

Combine  the  first  5  ingredients  and  boil  to  soft-ball  stage. 
Remove  from  heat.  Add  the  butter;  do  not  stir!  Cool  until  lukewarm. 
Add  the  vanilla  and  beat.  Pour  into  buttered  8  x  8-inch  pan. 

Bob  Stewart 

FROZEN  CUCUMBERS 

2  qt.  sliced  cucumbers  2  Tbsp.  salt 

(unpeeied)  1  Vb  c.  sugar 

1  medium  sliced  onion  1  c.  white  vinegar 

Cover  cucumbers  and  onions  with  cold  water  and  salt.  I  use 
about  1  V2  quarts  of  water.  Let  stand  for  2  or  3  hours;  drain  water  from 
cukes,  but  do  not  rinse.  Dissolve  sugar  and  vinegar  (don't  heat  to  dis- 
solve). Put  drained  cucumbers  in  a  large  plastic  or  glass  bowl,  and 
pour  the  sugar  and  vinegar  mixture  over  them.  Let  stand  overnight 
in  the  refrigerator.  Put  in  pint  freezer  containers,  pouring  the  liquid 
over  them  to  cover,  leaving  1-inch  headspace  for  expansion  during 
freezer. 

When  frozen  hard,  take  out  of  freezer  just  a  short  while  before 
serving,  and  serve  while  icy.  Delicious. 

Esty  Vollrath 


111596 


-  179- 


THIS  "N"  THAT 


GARLIC  CHEESE  GRITS 


4  c.  water 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  uncooked  grits  (regular) 

V2  c.  butter 


4  eggs,  well  beaten 
Va  lb.  Cheddar  cheese,  grated 
1  large  clove  garlic,  minced 
dash  of  Tabasco  sauce 


Bring  water  to  boil  in  a  medium  saucepan.  Add  salt  and  grits; 
cook  while  stirring  until  water  is  absorbed.  Add  butter,  eggs,  cheese, 
garlic  and  Tabasco  sauce;  mix  well.  Pour  into  a  buttered  2-quart  bak- 
ing dish  and  bake  for  1  hour  at  325°.  Serves  8. 

Virginia  Palmer 

GNOCCHI 


2  c.  milk,  heated  but  not  boiling 
Vz  c.  Cream  of  Wheat  (2  Vi  minute 

stove  top  cooking  kind) 
1  tsp.  salt 


Va  c.  margarine,  chopped 
dash  of  cayenne  red  pepper 
1  c.  Cheddar  cheese,  grated 
1  egg,  beaten  with  a  fork 


Heat  milk,  but  do  not  boil.  Place  warm  milk,  Cream  of  Wheat, 
salt,  chopped  margarine  and  cayenne  pepper  in  a  double  boiler;  heat 
thoroughly  until  margarine  is  melted.  Stir  often.  Remove  from  heat 
and  stir  in  grated  cheese.  To  beaten  egg,  add  one  tablespoon  of  warm 
mixture  and  stir  lightly;  then  add  another  tablespoon  of  warm  mixture 
and  stir  lightly.  Do  this  5  times.  Add  egg  mixture  to  whole  warm  mix- 
ture. This  way  you  will  avoid  the  danger  of  the  egg  stringing. 

Place  in  greased  1  Vi-quart  casserole  and  let  stand  at  room  tem- 
perature. Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour,  until  nice  and  brown  on  top.  This 
is  a  really  impressive,  fluffy,  smooth  side  dish  for  any  roast.  It  can  be 
served  with  gravy  or  just  butter.  Serves  4. 

Note:  If  doubling  (or  more),  decrease  salt. 

Gaye  Burton 


-180- 


THIS  "N"  THAT 

HOT  FRUIT  CASSEROLE 

1  (No.  2)  can  peach  halves  1  c.  light  brown  sugar 

2  (No.  2)  cans  pineapple  2  sticks  butter 

1  jar  apple  rings  (red)  1  3/4  c.  fruit  juices 

1  (No.  2)  can  apricot  halves  1/4  c.  cooking  sherry  or  V*  tsp. 

4  Tbsp.  flour  curry 

Drain  fruits,  saving  all  juices  except  apple.  A  small  amount  of 
apple  juice  may  be  used  for  color.  Arrange  fruit  in  alternate  layers  in 
large  (9  x  13-inch)  casserole.  Combine  sugar,  flour,  butter,  juices  and 
curry  or  sherry  in  saucepan.  Cook,  stirring,  over  low  heat  until  smooth 
and  thickened.  Pour  over  fruit  in  casserole.  Cover  and  let  stand 
overnight. 

Before  serving,  heat  in  350°  oven  until  hot  and  bubbly,  about  20 
to  25  minutes.  This  is  good  with  pork  or  poultry.  It  keeps  well  and 
may  be  reheated.  Serves  12  to  14  people. 

May  be  used  as  a  dessert  by  adding  a  dollop  of  whipped  cream 
or  Cool  Whip.  Add  a  shortbread  cookie,  if  desired. 

Recipe  from  Betty  Cotton  Owens. 

Libby  Jeffries 


HOT  FRUIT  CASSEROLE 

12  macaroons,  crumbled  V*  c.  brown  sugar 

4  c.  canned  fruit,  drained  V*  c.  sherry 

1/2  c.  slivered  almonds  1/4  c.  melted  butter 

Butter  a  2  ^-quart  casserole.  Cover  bottom  with  macaroon 
crumbs.  Alternate  fruit  and  crumbs  in  layers,  ending  with  crumbs. 
Sprinkle  with  almonds,  sugar,  butter  and  sherry.  Bake  in  a  350°  oven 
for  30  minutes.  This  is  good  with  chicken  or  ham. 

Margaret  McAbee 


-181- 


THIS  "N"  THAT 

JIM'S  BARBECUE  SAUCE 

V2  c.  Wesson  oil  %  c.  catsup  or  chili  sauce 

%  c.  water  V3  c.  lemon  juice 

%  c.  grated  onion  3  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  Tbsp.  prepared  mustard  3  Tbsp.  sugar 

2  tsp.  salt  V*  tsp.  pepper 

celery  salt  to  taste 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  bring  to  boil.  Turn  down  heat  and 
simmer  sauce  20  to  30  minutes.  Keep  sauce  refrigerated  until  used. 
Very  good  over  roast  beef,  pork  and  chicken. 

George  Gillespie 

LIME-ZUCCHINI  MARMALADE 

4  c.  coarsely  shredded  zucchini  1  (1  %  oz.)  pack  powdered  pectin 

2  c.  water  5  c.  sugar 

V2  c.  fresh  lime  juice  (about  4  3  Tbsp.  grated  lime  peel 

limes) 

In  large  pan,  bring  zucchini,  water  and  lime  juice  to  boil;  boil 
gently  for  10  minutes.  Stir  in  pectin;  return  to  boil.  Stir  in  sugar  and 
lime  peel;  return  to  hard  boil  that  can't  be  stirred  down.  Boil,  stirring 
constantly,  for  2  minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  for  5  minutes. 
Pack  into  hot,  sterilized  jars  and  seal.  Yields  3  pints. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 

MICROWAVE  FUDGE 

3  c.  sugar  1  (7  oz.)  jar  marshmallow  cream 
%  c.  butter  or  margarine                         2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  (5  V2  oz.)  can  evaporated  milk  2/z  c.  chopped  black  walnuts  or  1 

1  (12  oz.)  pkg.  semi-sweet  c.  chopped  plain  walnuts 

chocolate  chips 

Combine  sugar,  butter  and  evaporated  milk  in  a  3 -quart  glass 
mixing  bowl.  Microwave  on  High  8  or  9  minutes,  stirring  every  2  min- 
utes. Add  chocolate  pieces,  stirring  until  chocolate  is  melted.  Add 
marshmallow  cream  and  vanilla.  Pour  mixture  into  buttered  13  x  9 
x  2-inch  baking  pan.  Cool  completely;  cut  into  squares.  Makes  2 
pounds  of  fudge. 

Barbara  Betts 


-182- 


THIS  "N"  THAT 

MICROWAVE  PEANUT  BRITTLE 

1  c.  sugar  1  tsp.  butter  or  oleo 

V2  c.  white  corn  syrup  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  roasted  salted  peanuts  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

Microwave  sugar  and  syrup  in  1  ^-quart  bowl  on  highest  heat 
for  4  minutes.  Stir  in  peanuts;  microwave  on  High  4  minutes,  until 
lightly  browned.  Add  butter  and  vanilla  to  syrup;  blend  well.  Micro- 
wave on  High  for  1  minute.  Peanuts  will  be  browned  and  very  hot. 

Lightly  grease  cookie  sheet.  Pour  candy  on  sheet  quickly. 
Cool  Vi  hour;  break  apart.  Store  in  closed  container.  Makes  one 
pound. 

Lucy  Spradlin 
Louise  Stewart 


"MISHA"  SPAGHETTI  SAUCE 

2  lb.  ground  round  1  c.  fresh  parsley  or  2  tsp.  dried 

1  large  onion,  diced  V2  tsp.  oregano 

4  large  cans  crushed  tomatoes  2  tsp.  crushed  garlic 

1  (15  oz.)  can  tomato  paste  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  Tbsp.  olive  oil  additional  herbs  to  taste 

Brown  and  drain  meat,  using  olive  oil.  Add  all  ingredients  in 
6-quart  pot  and  mix  well.  Bring  to  boil,  then  simmer  slowly  for  1  Vi 
hours,  stirring  frequently.  Great  for  freezing. 

Bettie  Whitehead 


NEVER  FAIL  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  c.  vinegar  2  well  beaten  eggs 

2  Va  Tbsp.  butter  1  Tbsp.  flour 
1  c.  sugar                                               Vfe  tsp.  salt 

1  Tbsp.  dry  mustard  1  c.  water 

Heat  the  vinegar  and  butter;  set  aside.  Mix  dry  ingredients.  Add 
eggs  and  water.  Add  this  to  the  butter  and  vinegar  mixture.  Cook 
slowly  until  smooth  and  thick,  like  a  thin  custard. 

Linda  Magruder 


-183- 


THIS  "N"  THAT 

NOODLE  KUGEL 

1  lb.  broad  noodles,  cooked,  1  (8  oz.)  jar  applesauce 

drained  and  still  not  1  (1  lb.)  can  crushed  pineapple, 
1/2  c.  butter,  cut  into  small  pieces  drained 

4  eggs,  beaten  1  (10  oz.)  jar  apricot  preserves  or 
8  Tbsp.  sugar  cheeses  (Swiss,  Mozzarella, 

4  Tbsp.  raisins  Parmesan,  Monterey  Jack) 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Toss  hot  noodles  with  butter  to  coat.  Com- 
bine the  next  5  ingredients  and  beat  until  well  mixed.  Add  to  noodles 
and  toss  gently.  Spoon  into  greased  casserole  dish  and  smooth  top. 
Spread  preserves  or  cheese  over  noodles  and  bake  for  about  45  minutes 
or  until  top  is  browned.  Serve  hot. 

If  you  add  cheese  instead  of  preserves,  add  a  pinch  of  parsley  and 
top  it  with  almonds. 

Noodle  Kugel  is  served  as  an  accompaniment  to  a  main  dish  or 
as  a  dessert.  It  can  be  made  with  or  without  cheese  or  fruit.  Guten 
appetit! 

Maria  Weger  King 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 

1  c.  white  Karo  syrup  pinch  of  salt 

1  c.  white  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  c.  raw  peanuts,  shelled 

Mix  syrup  and  sugar  in  heavy  pan.  When  syrup  begins  to  boil, 
add  peanuts  and  salt.  Do  not  stir.  Cook  slowly  until  280°  to  290°  on 
a  candy  thermometer  is  reached;  remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  baking 
soda;  continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture  becomes  light  tan  in  color. 
Pour  onto  buttered  cookie  sheet.  After  it  cools,  break  into  pieces  with 
a  knife. 

Linda  Magruder 


-184- 


THIS  "N"  THAT 

PICNIC  HAM  SALAD 

2  c.  ground  cooked  ham  (about  Vs>  Vz  c.  mayonnaise  or  salad 

lb.)  dressing 

1/3  c.  sweet  pickle  relish  1  Tbsp.  mild  mustard 

Combine  all  ingredients;  cover  and  chill.  Can  be  used  for  a 
spread  on  crackers,  a  sandwich  spread  or  for  a  cold  salad.   Makes 

2  cups. 

Elva  Ferguson 

PINEAPPLE  SOUFFLE 

3  eggs  4  slices  bread  (white  or  wheat) 

1  stick  butter  20  oz.  crushed  pineapple  and 
1/2  c.  sugar  juice 

Melt  butter  in  1  Vi-quart  Pyrex  dish.  Add  sugar.  Crumble  bread 
and  add  to  butter.  Add  pineapple  and  bake  at  425°  for  25  minutes. 

Lucy  Spradlin 

RED  RICE 

2  c.  cooked  rice  2  onions 

1  c.  tomatoes  2  green  peppers 

1  c.  tomato  sauce  V2  tsp.  Tabasco  sauce 

1  c.  tomato  paste  1  tsp.  Parmesan  cheese 

In  a  baking  dish,  add  tomatoes,  sauce,  and  tomato  paste  to 
cooked  rice.  Saute  onions  and  peppers;  add  to  rice.  Add  Tabasco 
sauce.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  for  35  to  40  minutes 
at  325°. 

Jean  Dutzer 

STRAWBERRY  SLURP 

2  c.  fresh  strawberries  ice  cubes 
1A  to  %  c.  sifted  powdered  sugar 

Combine  strawberries  and  sugar  in  container  of  5-cup  blender. 
Add  ice  to  1  inch  of  container  top.  Blend  well.  Makes  a  beverage  treat 
or  dessert.  Yields  about  5  cups. 

Martha  Jo  Wilson 


-  185 


THIS  "N"  THAT 


VERY  CURRY  FRUIT 


1  c.  light  brown  sugar 
3  tsp.  curry  powder 
1  stick  butter,  melted 
1  large  can  pineapple  chunks, 
drained 


1  large  can  peaches,  drained 
1  large  can  pears,  drained 
1  can  mandarin  oranges,  drained 
maraschino  cherries  (if  desired) 


Put  drained  fruit  in  a  casserole.  Combine  sugar  and  curry  pow- 
der. Add  to  melted  butter  and  spoon  over  fruits.  Bake  at  350°  for  1 
hour.  Serve  warm.  Serves  6  to  8. 

May  be  fixed  the  day  before  and  reheated  before  serving. 

Jo  Sanders 
Virginia  Palmer 


WAFFLES 


2  c.  sifted  cake  flour 

3  tsp.  baking  powder 
V2  tsp.  salt 

2  beaten  egg  yolks 


1  Va  c.  milk 

Vz  c.  Wesson  oil 

2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites 


Mix  the  first  6  ingredients  together.   Fold  in  stiff  egg  whites. 
Yields  8  waffles. 

Leigh  Ann  Wilson 


-186- 


1115-96 


VEGETABLES 


ARTICHOKE  HEARTS  ROMANO 

2  cans  artichoke  hearts  6  oz.  cream  cheese 

8  Tbsp.  grated  Romano  cheese  4  Tbsp.  butter 

Cut  artichoke  hearts  into  fourths  and  divide  equally  into  small 
ramekins.  Put  cream  cheese  and  Romano  cheese  into  processor  or 
blender.  Process  until  well  mixed.  Spread  cheese  mixture  evenly  over 
artichokes.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  to  25  minutes,  until  cheese  is  slightly 
browned.  Serves  8  to  10. 

Malinda  Connell 


ASPARAGUS  AU  GRATIN 

1  (No.  2)  can  Green  Giant  1  Vi  c.  liquid  from  asparagus  and 
asparagus  milk 

2  Tbsp.  olive  oil  1  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

2  Tbsp.  flour  4  eggs,  hard-cooked  and  sliced 

V2  tsp.  salt  Va  c.  bread  crumbs 

paprika 

Save  liquid  from  asparagus.  Mix  olive  oil,  flour  and  salt  over 
heat.  Add  liquid;  cook  until  thickened,  stirring  frequently.  Remove 
from  heat.  Add  cheese  and  stir  until  melted.  Alternate  layers  of  eggs, 
asparagus  and  sauce.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs  in  a  greased  2-quart 
casserole.  (I  use  Pam  olive  oil.)  Sprinkle  with  paprika.  Bake  in  pre- 
heated 350°  oven  for  30  minutes. 

Anna  Margaret  Rhodes 


ASPARAGUS  CASSEROLE 

1  can  asparagus  1A  c.  bread  crumbs 

Va  c.  mayonnaise  1A  c.  grated  sharp  cheese 

V2  c.  cream  of  chicken  soup  paprika 
1  V2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  mayonnaise,  soup  and  lemon  juice.  Drain  asparagus.  Fold 
into  mixture.  Spread  bread  crumbs  and  cheese  on  top.  Sprinkle  with 
paprika.  Cook  20  minutes  at  350°. 

Margaret  Dugger 


-  187- 


VEGETABLES 

BAKED  ASPARAGUS 

1  V2  lb.  very  thin  asparagus  (peel  1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 

the  ends)  V*  c.  fresh  grated  Parmesan 

2  Tbsp.  melted  butter  cheese  or  buttered  bread 
V*  tsp.  white  pepper  crumbs 

Drop  asparagus  into  large  skillet  with  boiling  water.  Cook, 
uncovered,  for  3  minutes;  drain.  Run  under  cold  water.  Spray  casse- 
role dish  with  Pam.  Arrange  asparagus  in  dish.  Top  asparagus  with 
a  mixture  of  the  butter,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Sprinkle  with  the 
cheese  or  bread  crumbs.  Cover  and  refrigerate  until  ready  to  use. 

Bring  casserole  to  room  temperature.  Preheat  oven  to  400°. 
Cook,  uncovered,  for  5  to  10  minutes  (until  bubbly).  Garnish  with 
strips  of  red  pepper,  if  desired. 

Caroline  Kennett 

BAKED  BEANS 

1  (32  oz.)  can  pork  and  beans  1  medium  onion,  finely  chopped 

1/2  box  dark  brown  sugar  1  V2  c.  ketchup 

1  lb.  turkey  bacon 

Drain  the  pork  and  beans;  set  aside.  Cook  turkey  bacon,  follow- 
ing the  directions  on  the  package,  in  a  skillet.  Remove  from  skillet  and 
cut  into  small  pieces.  Saute  onions  in  water  in  same  skillet.  Add 
bacon  pieces,  brown  sugar  and  ketchup  to  the  onions;  cook  until  syr- 
upy. Pour  on  the  pork  and  beans.  Cook  for  1  hour  at  325°.  Serve  with 
chili  dogs  (see  recipe  for  chili  for  hot  dogs). 

Sherri  Jacobs  Winnett 

BAKED  BEAN  CASSEROLE 

V2  lb.  lean  ground  beef  or  turkey  1  small  can  each:  kidney  beans, 

1  small  diced  onion  pork  and  beans  and  butter 

Va  lb.  bacon  beans 

1A  c.  brown  sugar 

V2  c.  ketchup 

Brown  beef  or  turkey  and  onion  together.  Brown  bacon  or  bacon 
substitute.  Drain  Vi  of  liquid  from  each  type  bean.  Combine  meats 
and  beans.  Stir  in  brown  sugar  and  ketchup.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
only  to  heat  through. 

Louise  Stewart 

-188- 


VEGETABLES 

BASIC  BLACK  BEANS 

4  c.  water  1  bay  leaf 

12  oz.  dried  black  beans  1  V2  tsp.  dried  oregano 

1  chopped  green  pepper  1  tsp.  ground  cumin 

1  chopped  onion  1  V2  tsp.  salt 

1  V2  cloves  garlic  Vs>  tsp.  black  pepper 

2  Tbsp.  olive  oil 

Heat  water  and  beans  to  boiling  in  a  large  Dutch  oven.  Boil  2 
minutes;  remove  from  heat  and  let  stand  for  1  hour.  Saute  green  pep- 
per, onion  and  garlic  in  oil  until  tender.  Stir  into  beans.  Add  more 
water,  if  needed,  to  cover  beans.  Stir  in  seasonings.  Cover  and  simmer 
until  beans  are  tender,  approximately  2  hours.  Serves  6  to  8.  Wonder- 
ful with  seafood,  especially  crab  cakes. 

Recipe  by  Betty  Broyles. 

Anne  Broyles  Proctor 

BEETS  IN  SOUR  CREAM  SAUCE 

2  cans  sliced  beets,  drained  well  v4  tsp.  pepper 

1  Tbsp.  margarine  2  Tbsp.  orange  juice 

1  Tbsp.  flour  V2  c.  water 

V2  tsp.  salt  2/3  c.  sour  cream 

Melt  margarine  in  saucepan.  Blend  in  flour.  Cook,  stirring,  until 
mixture  bubbles.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  seasonings,  then  gradually 
add  juice  and  water,  stirring  to  smooth  mixture.  Bring  to  boil  over 
medium  heat,  then  add  beets.  Stir  in  sour  cream;  heat  thoroughly,  but 
don't  allow  to  boil.  Serve  hot.  Serves  6. 

Elva  Ferguson 

BEST  EVER  BAKED  BEANS 

4  strips  bacon,  chopped  V*  c.  dark  brown  sugar 

1  medium  onion,  chopped  Vz  c.  catsup 

3  (1  lb.)  cans  baked  beans  in  2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
brown  sugar  sauce  1  lb.  cooked  sausage 

V*  lb.  American  cheese,  cubed 

Fry  bacon  and  onion  together.  Drain  liquid  from  2  cans  of  beans. 
Combine  all  ingredients  in  a  casserole  dish.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  min- 
utes. May  sprinkle  Parmesan  cheese  on  top  after  baking. 

Diane  S.  Gillespie 


-  189- 


VEGETABLES 

BEST  EVER  BARBECUE  BEANS 

1  can  kidney  beans  V2  tsp.  pepper 

2  cans  pork  and  beans  bacon  strips,  cooked  and 
1/2  c.  brown  sugar  drippings  reserved 

V2  c.  ketchup  1  large  onion,  chopped 

1  Tbsp.  vinegar  1  tsp.  minced  garlic 

1  Tbsp.  prepared  mustard  1  bell  pepper,  chopped 
V*  tsp.  salt 

Brown  in  4  tablespoons  of  bacon  drippings  the  onion,  garlic  and 
bell  pepper.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  cook  in  casserole  dish  at 
350°  for  45  minutes.  Top  with  bacon. 

Note:  May  be  doubled  for  a  large  crowd. 

Liz  Haste 

BETTIE  WILLIAMS  CORN  PUDDING 

3  eggs  1  tsp.  salt 
V2  c.  sugar  1  pt.  milk 

2  heaping  Tbsp.  flour  2  Tbsp.  butter 
1  pt.  corn  (fresh,  frozen  or 

canned) 

Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  together.  Add  corn,  milk,  salt  and 
butter.  Pour  into  hot,  greased  baking  dish.  Bake  at  400°  for  25 
minutes. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 

BLUE  LAKE  GREEN  BEANS 

1  extra  large  can  Blue  Lake  1  c.  sharp  cheese,  grated 

green  beans  (cut)  or  2  regular  1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts 

size  cans  green  beans,  cut  croutons 

1  c.  sour  cream 

Heat  green  beans  to  boiling  point;  drain.  Mix  all  ingredients, 
except  for  the  croutons,  and  place  in  a  greased  casserole.  Put  croutons 
on  top.  Bake  at  350°  until  hot  and  bubbling,  about  20  minutes. 

Gaye  Burton 


-190- 


VEGETABLES 

BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

2  c.  cooked  rice  1  pkg.  frozen  broccoli  or  fresh 

2  Tbsp.  chopped  celery  broccoli,  cooked 

2  Tbsp.  chopped  onions  1  small  jar  Cheez  Whiz 

2  Tbsp.  butter  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

Saute  onions  and  ce'ery  in  butter.  Mix  mushroom  soup  and 
Cheez  Whiz  together  well.  Chop  the  broccoli  and  add  to  the  mixture. 
Place  mixture  in  a  buttered  casserole  dish.  Bake  at  350°  for  about  20 
minutes.  Do  not  overcook.  Serve  warm. 

Doreen  Davis 

BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

2  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  broccoli  1  (10  %  oz.)  can  cream  of 
spears  mushroom  soup 

1  c.  (4  oz.)  shredded  Cheddar  Vfe  c.  mayonnaise 
cheese  V2  c.  finely  chopped  onion 

2  large  eggs,  lightly  beaten  %  c.  herb  seasoned  stuffing  mix 

2  Tbsp.  butter,  melted 

Cook  broccoli  according  to  package  directions;  drain  well. 
Arrange  broccoli  in  a  lightly  greased  11x7x1  Vi-inch  baking  dish. 
Sprinkle  with  cheese;  set  aside.  Combine  stuffing  mix  and  butter; 
sprinkle  over  casserole.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes  or  until  thorough- 
ly heated. 

Carrie  Knoche 

BROCCOLI  STUFFED  TOMATOES 

6  medium  tomatoes  V2  c.  mayonnaise 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  broccoli  2  Tbsp.  chopped  onion 

4  oz.  shredded  Swiss  cheese  2  Tbsp.  grated  Parmesan 
1  c.  soft  bread  crumbs 

Cut  off  tops  and  scoop  pulp  from  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  insides 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Invert  on  a  wire  rack  and  drain  30  minutes. 
Cook  and  drain  broccoli.  Combine  with  Swiss  cheese,  bread  crumbs, 
mayonnaise  and  onion.  Stuff  the  tomatoes  with  broccoli  mixture. 
Sprinkle  Parmesan  cheese  on  top.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  for  30  min- 
utes at  350°. 

Nancy  H.  Hodges 


-191  - 


VEGETABLES 

BROILED  TOMATOES 

6  tomatoes  Va  tsp.  pepper 

6  bacon  strips,  cooked  1  egg  yolk 

Va  c.  minced  celery  Va  c.  grated  Cheddar  cheese 

Va  c.  minced  onion  Va  c.  bread  crumbs 

Va  tsp.  salt 

Heat  oven  to  375°.  Scoop  center  out  of  tomatoes.  Chop  pulp. 
Crush  bacon.  Saute  onion  and  celery  in  bacon  fat.  Combine  the  above 
with  salt,  pepper  and  egg  yolk;  fill  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs 
and  cheese  on  top.  Bake  at  375°  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Let  cool. 

Marilyn  F.  Nicholson 

BUSY  WOMAN'S  DINNER 

1  (16  oz.)  can  pork  and  beans  1  (14  Vs>  oz.)  can  tomatoes 

2  slices  bacon  (undrained),  broken  up 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  large  white  onion,  chopped  2  Tbsp.  bacon  fat 
Va  tsp.  salt  3  Tbsp.  sugar 

Va  tsp.  pepper 

Cut  bacon  slices  into  small  pieces.  Mix  all  ingredients  together 
and  place  in  2-quart  greased  casserole.  Bake  at  300°  for  2  hours.  Stir 
occasionally. 

Gaye  Burton 

BUTTERNUT  SQUASH  SOUFFLE 

2  c.  cooked  butternut  squash,  Va  tsp.  salt 

mashed  1  tsp.  cinnamon  (adjust  to  taste) 

3  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  Va  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  c.  sugar  or  %  c.  honey  3  eggs  or  Egg  Beaters 

Va  c.  milk  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Combine  squash  and  margarine,  mixing  well.  Add  sugar,  milk, 
salt  and  spices;  mix  thoroughly.  Add  beaten  eggs  and  vanilla.  Pour 
mixture  into  1  V^-quart  casserole.  Bake  at  325°  for  about  1  hour  and 
15  minutes  or  until  center  is  solid. 

Nancy  Wilson 


-192 


VEGETABLES 


CHEESE-BEANS 


6  c.  cooked  pinto  or  kidney 

beans 
2  c.  chopped  onions 
2  large  cooking  apples,  cut  in 

chunks 
2  c.  grated  mild  white  cheese 

(Muenster  or  Monterey  Jack) 


4  medium  fresh  chopped 

tomatoes 
6  Tbsp.  dry  white  wine 
2  tsp.  chili  powder 
1  tsp.  dry  mustard 
salt  and  pepper 


Saute  the  onions  in  a  little  butter  until  they  are  soft  and  clear. 
Add  chili  powder  and  mustard.  Combine  cooked  beans  with  sauteed 
onions  and  all  remaining  ingredients.  Pour  into  large  buttered  casse- 
role. Cover  and  bake  at  350°  for  35  to  40  minutes.  Serve  with  fresh 
corn  bread.  Serves  6. 

Virginia  Palmer 
CONFETTI  SCALLOPED  POTATOES 


V2  c.  butter  or  margarine 

1/2  c.  chopped  onion 

1  (16  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  hash  brown 

potatoes 
1  (10  %  oz.)  can  condensed 

cream  of  mushroom  soup 

(undiluted) 
1  soup  can  milk 


1  c.  (4  oz.)  shredded  Cheddar 
cheese 

1  small  green  pepper,  cut  into 
strips 

2  Tbsp.  chopped  pimiento 
dash  of  pepper 

1  c.  cheese  cracker  crumbs, 
divided 


In  a  skillet,  melt  butter  over  medium  heat.  Saute  onion  until  ten- 
der. Stir  in  potatoes,  soup  and  milk.  Add  cheese,  green  pepper, 
pimiento,  black  pepper  and  Vi  cup  of  the  crumbs.  Pour  into  a  shallow 
casserole;  top  with  remaining  crumbs.  Bake  at  375°  for  35  to  40  min- 
utes. Yields  6  to  8  servings. 

Wanita  Kendrick 


-193- 


VEGETABLES 

CORN  AND  TOMATO  CHESAPEAKE 

(Clyde's  Restaurant  -  Great  Summertime  Recipe) 

1 0  ears  sweet  white  corn,  %  tsp.  salt 

kernels  cut  from  cob  %  tsp.  black  pepper,  freshly 

4  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  ground 

5  whole  homegrown  tomatoes,  1A  tsp.  sugar 
cored,  seeded  and  finely  diced 

Saute  corn  in  butter  over  medium-low  heat  for  5  minutes.  Add 
tomatoes  to  corn.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sugar.  Cook  at  simmer 
for  15  minutes  or  until  tomatoes  become  a  thick  sauce  and  corn  is 
tender-crisp. 

Nancy  Wilson 

CORN  PUDDING 

1  box  Jiffy  corn  muffin  mix  1  (8  oz.)  sour  cream 

1  (14  %  oz.)  can  creamed  corn  2  eggs 

1  (14  %  oz.)  can  whole  kernel  1  stick  margarine  or  butter 
corn 

Beat  eggs.  Add  Jiffy  corn  muffin  mix,  sour  cream  and  corn.  Melt 
butter  and  stir  into  mixture.  Pour  into  greased  pan  and  bake  for  1 
hour  at  350°. 

Blanche  Cox 

EASTERN  SHORE  BAKED  CORN 

2/3  c.  sugar  3  c.  cream  (1  %  c.  milk  and  1 V* 

2  level  Tbsp.  flour  c.  cream) 

4  eggs  1  can  creamed  corn 

Mix  sugar  and  flour.  Add  1  beaten  egg  at  a  time;  slowly  add  milk 
and  creamed  corn.  Bake  in  a  12  x  8  x  2-inch  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  water, 
at  325°  for  1  hour.  May  not  look  thoroughly  cooked,  but  will  be. 

Berry  E.  Parks 


-  194- 


VEGETABLES 

EASY  EGGPLANT 

1  (1  V2  to  2  lb.)  eggplant  spaghetti  sauce  with  mushrooms 

4  Tbsp.  melted  butter  oregano 

bread  crumbs  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Slice  eggplant  V^-inch  thick.  (If  skins  are  tender,  don't  pare.)  Dip 
slices  in  melted  butter,  then  coat  with  bread  crumbs  and  place  on  a 
cookie  sheet.  Top  each  slice  with  a  tablespoon  of  prepared  spaghetti 
sauce  with  mushrooms.  Sprinkle  each  with  a  dash  of  oregano  and  top 
with  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  for  25  to  30  minutes  at  350°. 

Louise  Lowery 

FIRE  AND  ICE  TOMATOES 

6  medium  size  tomatoes  1  Vfe  tsp.  celery  seed 

1  green  bell  pepper  1  V2  tsp.  prepared  mustard 

1  onion  V*  tsp.  salt  (optional) 

1  large,  peeled  cucumber  4  V2  Tbsp.  sugar 
%  c.  vinegar 

Peel  and  quarter  tomatoes.  Cut  green  pepper  in  strips.  Slice 
onion  and  separate  into  rings.  Slice  cucumber  thin;  reserve.  Boil  vine- 
gar and  spices  together  for  1  minute.  Have  vegetables  in  1  V^-quart 
container.  Pour  hot  mixture  over  them  (except  cucumber).  Let  stand 
until  cool,  then  add  cucumber.  Nice  addition  to  a  summer  cookout  or 
easy  meal.  Serves  6. 

Sandy  Craig 

GLAZED  APPLE  SLICES 

1/2  c.  orange  juice  3  large  apples,  peeled,  cored  and 

V3  c.  light  brown  sugar  thinly  sliced 

Ve  tsp.  ground  allspice 

In  large  skillet,  combine  orange  juice,  brown  sugar  and  allspice. 
Stir  over  low  heat  until  sugar  dissolves  and  mixture  boils.  Add  apple 
slices.  Simmer,  uncovered,  over  low  heat  for  8  to  10  minutes  or  until 
apples  are  tender.  Spoon  syrup  over  apples  during  cooking. 

Cathy  Watson 


111596 


-  195- 


VEGETABLES 

GRANDMOTHER'S  STUFFED  TOMATOES 

4  large  tomatoes  3  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

1  small  can  Underwood  deviled  20  saltine  crackers,  crushed 
ham  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Peel  only  the  top  part  of  the  tomatoes.  Scoop  out  the  insides,  sav- 
ing the  shells.  Cut  up  the  "tomato  meat"  into  small  pieces,  draining 
some  of  the  liquid.  Mix  with  remainder  of  the  ingredients.  Lightly  salt 
the  insides  of  the  tomato  shells  before  putting  the  mixture  in  the  shells. 
Chill  and  serve.  Great  lunch  dish! 

Recipe  from  Martha  Barnes. 

Martha  Jo  Wilson 

GREEN  BEAN  CASSEROLE 

2  pkg.  or  cans  frozen  French-  2  tsp.  sugar 

style  green  beans  4  tsp.  grated  onion 

2  Tbsp.  flour  1  pt.  sour  cream 

2  Tbsp.  melted  oleo  or  butter  1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  grated  Swiss 

1  tsp.  salt  cheese 

Topping: 

1  c.  crushed  corn  flakes  6  Tbsp.  melted  oleo 

Cook  and  drain  green  beans.  Place  beans  in  casserole  dish.  Cook 
the  next  5  ingredients  until  well  blended.  Add  sour  cream  and  cheese. 
Pour  blended  sauce  over  beans  and  mix. 

Topping:  Mix  and  put  on  top  of  beans.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  min- 
utes. Serves  6  to  8. 

Linda  Magruder 

HARVARD  BEETS 

Vz  c.  sugar  1A  c.  vinegar 

2  tsp.  cornstarch  2  c.  beets  (sliced,  cubed  or 
1/4  c.  water  in  which  beets  were  whole) 

cooked  or  canned  2  Tbsp.  margarine 

Combine  sugar  and  cornstarch.  Add  liquids  and  bring  to  a  boil, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Boil  until  thick  and  smooth.  Add  drained  beets 
and  cook  over  low  heat  for  20  minutes.  Add  butter  or  margarine  and 
serve  hot. 

Cathy  Watson 

-196- 


VEGETABLES 

MARY'S  BAKED  BEANS 

2  (16  to  18  oz.)  cans  pork  and  1  tsp.  dry  mustard 

beans  6  slices  bacon,  cut  in  pieces 

%  c.  brown  sugar  Vs-  c.  catsup 

Empty  1  can  beans  into  greased  casserole  dish.  Combine  sugar 
and  mustard.  Sprinkle  half  of  mixture  over  beans.  Top  with  remain- 
ing can  of  beans.  Sprinkle  rest  of  sugar-mustard  mixture,  chopped 
bacon  and  catsup  over  beans.  Bake,  uncovered,  in  slow  oven  (325°)  for 
2  Vi  hours.  Makes  8  servings. 

Barbara  Bailey 

MUSHROOMS  FLORENTINE 

12  mushrooms  (2  V2  to  3  inches  1  egg  yolk 

across)  V2  tsp.  salt 

2  lb.  fresh  spinach  or  1  (10  oz.)  Vb  tsp.  pepper 

pkg.  frozen  Vs  tsp.  nutmeg 

Vi  c.  butter  1A  c.  Parmesan  cheese 
1  medium  onion,  minced 

Preheat  oven  to  325°.  Clean  mushrooms;  snap  out  stems.  Finely 
chop  stems.  Cook  spinach,  covered,  until  tender.  Squeeze  all  water 
from  spinach;  chop  finely. 

Melt  butter  in  frypan.  Add  mushroom  caps  only  to  coat  with  but- 
ter; transfer  to  baking  dish.  Add  minced  onion  and  chopped  mush- 
room stems  to  frypan.  Cook  until  onion  is  limp.  Stir  in  spinach  and 
remove  from  heat.  Combine  egg  yolk,  salt,  pepper  and  cheese;  add  to 
spinach.  Mound  mixture  in  mushroom  caps.  Sprinkle  with  more  Par- 
mesan cheese.  Bake,  uncovered,  for  20  minutes.  Serves  6. 

Madeleine  Cox 

PEGGY'S  SOUTHWESTERN  BEANS 

Vt  lb.  bacon  1A  c.  brown  sugar 

1  c.  diced  onion  1  (16  oz.)  jar  green  or  red  salsa 

1  large  can  pinto  beans  V2  c.  catsup 

Fry  bacon  until  crisp;  remove  and  drain  drippings,  leaving 
enough  to  saute  onions.  Add  brown  sugar,  catsup  and  salsa;  mix  and 
bring  to  boil.  Stir  in  beans  and  bacon.  Bake  at  350°  in  oven  for  45  to 
60  minutes. 

Steve  Hoagland 


197  - 


VEGETABLES 

PINEAPPLE  WITH  SWEET  POTATOES 

2  c.  cooked  and  mashed  sweet  2  Tbsp.  butter 

potatoes  8  pineapple  slices 

1  c.  sugar  8  marshmallows 
Va  tsp.  salt 

Combine  the  first  4  ingredients,  mixing  well.  Place  pineapple 
slices  on  cookie  sheets;  top  each  with  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  pota- 
to mixture.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes.  Top  each  slice  with  a  marsh- 
mallow  and  return  to  oven  for  about  10  minutes,  or  until 
marshmallows  melt. 

Jo  Sanders 


POSH  SQUASH 

2  lb.  yellow  squash,  sliced  1A  c.  green  pepper,  chopped 

2  eggs  1  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

1  c.  mayonnaise  (Hellmann's)  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  small  onion,  chopped 

Cook  squash  and  onions;  drain.  Beat  eggs.  Add  rest  of  ingredi- 
ents. Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Cover  with  buttered  bread 
crumbs.  Cook  for  30  minutes  at  350°.  Serves  8. 

Kitty  Barcalow 
Shirley  Oates 


RANCH  BEANS 

1  lb.  ground  round  dash  of  salt  and  pepper 

1  lb.  bacon,  diced  and  cooked  1  can  Northern  beans 

1  Va  c.  catsup  1  can  kidney  beans 

1  c.  onion,  chopped  1  can  lima  beans 

V2  c.  brown  sugar  1  can  butter  beans 

Vt  tsp.  dried  mustard  1  large  can  pork  and  beans 

Brown  the  ground  round  and  bacon.  In  large  container,  add  the 
remaining  ingredients.  Mix  all  together.  If  too  thick,  add  1  can  beef 
broth.  Simmer  for  2  hours.  Great  for  crowd.  Serves  24. 

This  is  Shirley's  recipe. 

Betty  Broyles 


-198- 


VEGETABLES 

RIVERPOINT  FARM  SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

2  lb.  yellow  squash  24  butter  crackers,  crushed 

1  large  onion,  chopped  2  sticks  butter  or  margarine 

1  large  green  pepper,  chopped  1  tsp.  sugar 

4  large  eggs,  lightly  beaten  2  tsp.  seasoned  salt 

\'i  pt.  whipping  cream  1  tsp.  salt 

%  lb.  Cheddar  cheese,  graled  4  slices  bread 

Cook  and  mash  squash.  Braise  onions  and  pepper  in  1  stick  of 
butter.  Add  onions,  pepper,  crushed  crackers  and  cheese  to  squash; 
mix  well.  Add  seasonings  and  blend.  Add  cream  and  eggs;  mix  well 
and  taste  for  seasoning.  Put  mixture  into  1  large  or  2  small  casseroles. 

Toast  bread  until  dry.  Roll  and  crush  to  make  crumbs.  Melt 
remaining  stick  of  butter  and  add  crumbs.  Put  mixture  on  top  of  cas- 
serole and  bake  at  350°  for  30  to  40  minutes. 

Malinda  Connell 

SKILLET  CABBAGE 

2  Tbsp.  bacon  drippings  1  tomato,  chopped 
4  c.  cabbage,  shredded                          2  tsp.  sugar 

1  large  onion,  sliced  salt  and  pepper 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 

Add  bacon  drippings  in  a  large  skillet.  Layer  all  ingredients  in 
the  skillet,  sprinkling  the  sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  over 
medium  heat  for  8  to  10  minutes.  You  may  need  to  add  2  to  3  table- 
spoons water. 

Doreen  Davis 


-  199- 


VEGETABLES 


STIR-FRY  VEGETABLES 


1  large  white  onion,  sliced 
1  large  red  pepper,  sliced 

3  to  4  carrots,  sliced 

4  to  5  ribs  celery,  sliced 
fresh  snow  peas 

fresh  bean  sprouts 
1  can  pineapple  chunks 
1  can  mushrooms,  sliced 
1  can  bamboo  shoots,  sliced 


1  can  "baby"  corn-on-the-cob 

1  can  water  chestnuts,  sliced 

soy  sauce 

sesame  seed  oil 

salt 

pepper 

beef  or  chicken,  cut  up  in  small 

pieces  (use  steak  or  chicken 

breast  meat) 


Use  a  wok  or  large  frypan.  If  meat  is  used,  place  sesame  seed 
oil  in  wok  and  gently  cook  meat  or  chicken  first.  Add  onion,  carrots 
and  celery;  stir-fry.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  soy  sauce.  Add  bean 
sprouts,  bamboo  shoots  and  mushrooms;  stir-fry  all  together  until  veg- 
etables are  cooked,  yet  still  a  little  crunchy.  Serve  over  a  bed  of  rice. 

Amounts  of  vegetables  used  may  vary  according  to  personal 
taste.  Use  no  substitute  for  the  sesame  seed  oil. 

Ginger  Cox 

STRING  BEAN  CASSEROLE 


2  cans  string  beans 

(French-style),  drained 
1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 


1  can  water  chestnuts,  sliced 

thin 
1  can  French  fried  onions 


Mix  the  first  3  ingredients  together  in  buttered  casserole.  Top 
with  French  fried  onions.  Place  in  a  350°  oven  for  20  minutes. 


Martha  Midgett 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE 


6  c.  yellow  squash 

Va  c.  chopped  onion 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  c.  sour  cream 


1  c.  shredded  carrot  (optional) 
1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  herb  seasoned 

stuffing  mix 
V2  c.  melted  butter 


Cook  sliced  squash  and  onion  in  salted  water  for  5  minutes. 
Combine  soup  and  sour  cream.  Pour  butter  on  stuffing.  Spread  half 
in  bottom  of  casserole.  Spoon  vegetable  mixture  over  the  top.  Top 
with  remaining  stuffing.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  or  30  minutes. 

Judy  Perry 


-200- 


VEGETABLES 

SUPREME  BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

1  c.  sour  cream  1  c.  water  chestnuts,  sliced 

1  c.  mayonnaise  2  c.  shredded  sharp  cheese 

V*  c.  onion,  finely  chopped  1  c.  Ritz  cracker  crumbs 

V2  c.  green  pepper  3  Tbsp.  melted  butter 
4  c.  cooked,  drained  and 
chopped  broccoli 

Preheat  oven  to  375°.  Butter  a  large  casserole  dish.  Blend  sour 
cream  with  mayonnaise,  onion  and  pepper.  Put  broccoli  in  casserole 
dish.  Top  with  layer  of  sour  cream  sauce,  then  add  water  chestnuts 
and  sharp  cheese.  Cover  with  Ritz  cracker  crumbs,  mixed  with  melted 
butter.  Bake  for  35  minutes  at  375°.  Serves  12. 

Martha  Midgett 

SWEET  AND  SOUR  RED  CABBAGE 

1  large  red  cabbage,  shredded  2  Tbsp.  sugar 
(about  1  Vz  lb.)  1  onion,  diced 

2  Tbsp.  melted  butter  or  4  Tbsp.  red  vinegar 
margarine  1  Tbsp.  all-purpose  flour 

2  tart  apples,  peeled,  cored  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

diced 

Place  shredded  cabbage  in  cool  water;  wash  and  drain.  In  a  large 
pot,  saute  sugar  and  butter.  Add  apples  and  onion;  brown.  Add  the 
washed  cabbage.  Stir  the  vinegar  and  flour  together.  Add  to  the  cab- 
bage. Cover  and  cook  over  low  heat  for  20  minutes  or  until  cabbage 
is  tender.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Guten  appetit! 

Maria  Weger  King 


-201  - 


VEGETABLES 

SWEET  POTATO  CASSEROLE 

3  c.  cooked,  boiled,  mashed  Vz  c.  melted  butter 

sweet  potatoes  1  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  c.  brown  sugar  (light  brown)  2  eggs,  beaten 
1A  c.  milk 

Topping: 

1  c.  coconut  1  c.  brown  sugar 

Vb  c.  flour  1/3  c.  melted  butter 

1  c.  chopped  pecans 

Mix  the  first  6  ingredients  together.  Put  in  lightly  greased 
2-quart  casserole.  When  doubling  recipe,  use  less  milk  and  melted 
butter. 

Topping:  Mix  the  ingredients.  Top  casserole  with  this  crumbly 
mixture.  Bake  at  375°  for  25  minutes,  uncovered. 

Pat  Leeming 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

1  (29  oz.)  can  sweet  potatoes,  V2  c.  milk 
drained  and  mashed  1  tsp.  vanilla 

%  c.  sugar  1  c.  light  brown  sugar 

%  c.  margarine,  divided  use  1  c.  chopped  pecans 

2  eggs,  lightly  beaten  Va  c.  flour 

1  c.  grated  coconut  dash  of  salt 

Mix  sweet  potatoes,  sugar,  lA  cup  margarine,  eggs,  coconut,  milk 
and  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  greased  8-inch  square  dish;  level. 

Soften  Vi  cup  margarine  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Stir  in  brown  sugar, 
pecans,  flour  and  dash  of  salt.  Distribute  on  top  of  potato  mixture. 
Microwave  on  High  15  minutes;  rotate  dish  midway  through  cooking. 
Makes  6  servings. 

Gaye  Burton 


-202- 


VEGETABLES 

SWEET  POTATO  SURPRISE 

1  (17  oz.)  can  whole  sweet  1  tsp.  grated  orange  peel 

potatoes,  sliced  lengthwise  1  (1  lb.)  can  apricot  halves  (save 
1  1/4  c.  brown  sugar  juice) 

1  1/2  Tbsp.  cornstarch  2  Tbsp.  butter 

V4  tsp.  salt  Vz  c.  pecan  halves 
V2  to  2  tsp.  cinnamon  (to  taste) 

Put  potato  slices  in  greased  oven  ware  casserole  (12  x  7-inch  rec- 
tangle). Combine  sugar,  cornstarch,  salt,  cinnamon  and  orange  peel. 
Stir  1  cup  apricot  juice  into  sugar  mixture.  Cook  and  stir  over  medium 
heat  until  boiling.  Add  apricots,  butter  and  pecans;  pour  over  pota- 
toes. Bake  at  375°  for  25  minutes.  (This  is  good  with  pineapple 
chunks  too,  but  the  apricots  make  it  a  little  more  elegant  and  are  deli- 
cious.) This  goes  well  with  turkey,  pork  or  chicken.  Serves  6  to  8. 

Eleanor  Watts 

VEGETABLE  CASSEROLE 

1  can  white  Shoe  Peg  corn  2  c.  grated  sharp  Cheddar 

1  can  green  beans  cheese 

1  V*  c.  sour  cream  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 

V2  c.  chopped  onion 

Topping: 

2  stacks  Ritz  crackers  slivered  almonds  or  pecans 
1  stick  margarine 

Drain  corn  and  beans.  Mix  all  ingredients  together,  except  top- 
ping, and  place  in  a  sprayed  casserole.  Add  topping  and  nuts. 

Topping:  Crush  crackers;  mix  with  melted  margarine.  Put  nuts 
on  top.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes  or  until  hot  and  bubbly. 

Jessie  Blalock 


-203- 


VEGETABLES 


VEGETABLE  MEDLEY 


1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  broccoli 
1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  cauliflower 
1  can  low-fat  cream  of 

mushroom  soup 
1  (16  oz.)  can  green  beans, 

drained 


1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts 
1  can  Cheddar  soup  (low-fat) 
1  (16  oz.)  can  carrots,  drained 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Combine  all  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly.  Put  in  casserole 
dish,  sprayed  with  Pam,  and  bake  at  350°  for  20  to  25  minutes.  Serves 
6  to  8. 

Cookie  Bryan 

VIDALIA  ONION  CASSEROLE 


3  large  Vidalia  onions 
%  stick  butter  or  margarine 
V2  c.  Parmesan  cheese 
V2  tsp.  salt 


V2  tsp.  white  pepper 
crispy  buttery  crackers,  crushed 
for  crumbs 


Peel  onions;  slice  thinly.  Place  in  baking  dish  (Pyrex).  Dot  with 
butter.  Cover  with  plastic  wrap.  Microwave  for  3  minutes.  Stir;  re- 
cover. Microwave  5  to  7  minutes,  until  tender  (barely).  Stir  in  cheese, 
salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Top  with  cracker 
crumbs. 

B.  J.  Buchert 


204- 


VEGETABLES 

WALNUT  BROCCOLI 

2  (10  oz.)  pkg.  chopped  broccoli 

Sauce: 

V3  c.  margarine  1  cube  chicken  bouillon 

3  Tbsp.  flour  1  1/2  c.  milk 

Topping: 

1A  c.  margarine  1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  herb  seasoned 

Vst  c.  water  stuffing  mix 

1/2  c.  chopped  walnuts 

Cook  broccoli  and  drain. 

Sauce:  In  a  saucepan,  melt  the  margarine.  Stir  in  the  flour  and 
the  bouillon  cube.  Add  the  milk;  cook  until  thick. 

Topping:  In  another  saucepan,  melt  the  margarine  in  the  water. 
Add  the  herb  seasoned  stuffing  mix  and  the  chopped  walnuts. 

Grease  a  2-quart  casserole  dish  and  arrange  the  broccoli  in  it. 
Pour  sauce  over  broccoli.  Put  stuffing  mix  on  top.  Bake,  uncovered, 
at  350°  for  30  minutes. 

Jean  Dyer 

WILD  RICE  CASSEROLE 

1  pkg.  wild  rice  (Uncle  Ben's  long  %  c.  milk 

grain  wild  rice  with  seasonings)  2  Tbsp.  flour 

1  large  onion,  chopped  2  c.  sour  cream 

1  c.  mushrooms,  chopped  bread  crumbs  (as  needed) 

2  Tbsp.  butter 

Prepare  rice  as  directed  on  box;  cool.  Saute  onion  and  mush- 
rooms in  butter.  Add  milk  and  flour;  stir  until  paste  like.  Toss  in  rice. 
Add  sour  cream  and  top  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  at  300°  until  hot, 
about  Vi  hour. 

Judy  Perry 


-205- 


VEGETABLES 

-YOUR  FAVORITE  RECIPES- 
Recipe  Page  Number 


-206- 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 


Appetizers 

Artichoke  Party  Dip 1 

Black  Bean  Dip 1 

Butter  Roasted  Pecans 1 

Cheese  Straws 2 

Cocktail  Pizzas    2 

Crab  Dip 2 

Cream  Cheese  and  Beef  Bits  ....  3 
Cream  Cheese  and  Herb  Dip   ...  3 

Elegant  Crab  Dip 3 

Fruit  Dip 4 

Green  Chili  Pie    4 

Hot  Crab  Dip 4 

Jezebel  Sauce 5 

Mexican  Dip    5 

Parmesan  Puffs   5 

Party  Mix    6 

Pineapple  Cheese  Ball    6 

Pinwheel  Appetizers 6 

Pizza  Biscuits 7 

Smoked  Fish  Salad    7 

Smoked  Salmon  Dip    7 

Smoked  Salmon  Mousse 8 

Snack  Crackers   8 

Spinach  Balls 8 

Spinach  Dip 9 

Taco  Dip 9 

Tex-Mex  Dip 10 

Breads  &  Sandwiches 

Angel  Biscuits    11 

Banana  Chocolate  Chip  Bread  .  12 

Banana  Nut  Bread 11 

Bran  Muffins 12 

Breakfast  Surprise 13 

Broccoli  Cornbread    13 

Bubble  Bread 13 

Cheesy  English  Muffins 14 


Company  Corn  Bread    14 

Cornbread 15 

Corned  Beef  and  Cheese 

Sandwich   14 

Crab  On  English  Muffin 15 

Cream  Cheese  Braids 16 

Dresden  Christmas  Bread 17 

Egg  In  A  Bun  Sandwiches   ....  17 

Grape-Nuts  Bread 18 

Hilda's  Egg  Bread   18 

Jalapeno  Corn  Bread 18 

Jiffy  Whole  Wheat  Crescent 

Rolls 19 

Lemon  Bread 19 

Monkey  Bread 20 

Oakie  Corn  Bread    20 

Our  Favorite  Pumpkin  Bread  .  .  21 

Poppy  Seed  Bread 21 

Pumpkin  Bread 21 

Pumpkin  Bread 22 

Quick  "N"  Easy  Biscuits    22 

Salmon  Crogue  Monsieur 22 

Savory  Brunch  Pull-Apart    ....  23 

Spoon  Bread    23 

Texas  Corn  Bread    24 

Vegetable  Sandwiches    24 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 25 

Zucchini  Chocolate  Chip  Bread .  25 

Desserts 

A  Yummy  Apple  Dessert 27 

Almond  Cake  With  Raspberry 

Sauce 27 

Almond  Chocolate  Bars 28 

Almost  Cheesecake  Pie 28 

Angel  Pie 29 

Apricot  Foldovers 29 

Blonde  Brownies    30 

Brown  Sugar  Pound  Cake    ....  30 


111596 


-A- 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Brownie  Baked  Alaska 31 

Brownie  Pie 31 

Butterscotch  Cake   32 

Campfire  or  Fireplace  Eclairs  .  .  32 

Carrot  Cake  and  Frosting 33 

Cherry  Crumb  Cake 33 

Cherry  Delight  Cake    34 

Chocolate  Cake 35 

Chocolate  Caramel  Bars 34 

Chocolate  Cherry  Bars 36 

Chocolate  Chip  Cake 36 

Chocolate  Chip  Date  Cake  ....  37 

Chocolate  Mint  Bars    37 

Chocolate  Peanut  Butter 

Cookies    38 

Chocolate-Peanut  Butter 

Squares 38 

Chocolate  Pound  Cake 38 

Chocolate  Strata  Pie 39 

Classic  Sour  Cream 

Cheesecake 39 

Cloud  Nine  Cake 40 

Coconut  Macaroons 40 

Coconut  "Not"  Cookies 41 

Coconut  Pecan  Squares    41 

Coconut  Pie 42 

Coconut  Pound  Cake 42 

Cookie  Dough  Brownies 43 

Cranberry  Pie    45 

Cranberry,  Chocolate  Chip, 

Date  Nut  Cake 45 

Crunch  Cake 46 

Dessert  Pizza 46 

Easy  Fudge   47 

Eggnog  Bavarian  Parfait    47 

Eggnog  Dessert    48 

Emmie  Schmits    48 

Fool's  Toffee   49 

Forget-Me-Not  Cookies    49 

Four  Layer  Dessert    50 

Frank's  Turtle  Brownies 51 

Frozen  Custard    51 


Frozen  Strawberry  Squares  ....  52 

Fruit  Cocktail  Cake 52 

Fruit  Torte 53 

Fudge  Brownies 53 

Golf  Balls    53 

Halifax  Delight    54 

Heath  Bars    54 

Heaven  In  A  Pan  Cake    55 

Homemade  Oatmeal  Cookie 

Mix    56 

Ice  Cream  Crunch  Cake 56 

Just  Right  Chocolate  Chip 

Cookies    57 

Kahlua-Chocolate  Cake 57 

Layered  Banana  Pineapple 

Dessert 58 

Lazy  Man  Cobbler 58 

Lemon  Snow   58 

Lemon  Sponge  Pudding 59 

Lemon  Squares    60 

Lemon  Supreme  Cake    59 

Lemon  Surprise  Cake 61 

Mississippi  Mud 62 

Mud  Pie  Crunch    62 

Nanaimo  Bars   63 

Navy  Nurse's  Fresh  Blackberry 

Cobbler 63 

New  York  Cheese  Cake 64 

No  Bake  Jeweled  Cherry  Fruit 

Cake    64 

North  Carolina  Pecan  Pie 65 

Nut  Cake 65 

Oatmeal  Crunchies 65 

Old  Fashioned  Chocolate  Cake  .  66 

Orange  Cloud  Pie 66 

Peanut  Blossoms    67 

Pecan  Pie 67 

Pecan  Squares   68 

Pick  Me  Ups   68 

Pineapple  Drop  Cookies 68 

Popcorn  Cake    69 

Poppy  Seed  Torte 69 


-B 


Punch  Bowl  Cake    70 

Quick  and  Easy  Chocolate  Pie   .  70 

Quick  Chocolate  Cookies 70 

Quick  Lemon  Chess  Pie 71 

Rich  Pecan  Pie 71 

Ritz  Pie 71 

Rum  Cake 72 

Saltine  Cracker  Praline    72 

Scottish  Shortbread    73 

Souffle  Dannon   73 

Sour  Cream  Apple  Squares  ....  74 

Sour  Cream  Pound  Cake 74 

Sour  Cream  Pound  Cake 75 

Special  K  Bars 75 

Strawberry  Delight  Cake    76 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  Cake  ...  76 

Sugar  Jumbles 77 

Suicide  Cake 77 

Sweet  Potato  Pie    77 

Tart  'N  Tangy  Fruit  Compote    .  78 

Tennessee  Boiled  Custard 78 

The  Cousins  Cake   44 

Ting-A-Lings 79 

Tubby's  Apples    79 

Wellesley  Coffee  Cake 80 

White  Chocolate  Chunk 

Macadamia  Cookies    80 

White  Chocolate  Mousse    81 

Whoopie  Pies 81 

Zucchini- Pineapple  Cake 82 

Low  Calorie 

Baked  Catfish    83 

Baked  Trout    83 

Beef  Casserole  From  The  Heart 

Association 84 

Chicken  Enchilada  Casserole  .  .  84 
Chocolate- Amaretto 

Cheesecake 85 

Cran-Apple  Crunch 85 

Dark  Chocolate  Brownies 86 

Diabetic  Cake    86 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Fat-Free  Carrot  Cake 87 

Herbed  Asparagus  Saute    87 

Light  Linguine  With  Clam 

Sauce 88 

Linda's  Green  Pea  Casserole  ...  88 

Lite  and  Easy  Fruit  Trifle 88 

Low-Fat  Sweet  Potato  Pie 89 

Meat  Loaf 89 

Mock  Chocolate  Eclair  Pie  ....  90 
Noodles  With  Shredded 

Cabbage  Casserole    90 

Oven  Fried  Fish 91 

Oven  Fried  Green  Tomatoes  ...  91 
Pot  Roast  With  Dilled  Carrot 

Gravy 92 

Rustic  Lasagna    93 

Southern  Oven  "Fried" 

Chicken   94 

Spinach,  Nineties  Style 94 

Tangy  Lemon  Pound  Cake  ....  95 
Vegetable  Bars 96 

Main  Dishes 

Bacon  and  Egg  Spaghetti 97 

Baked  Chicken  Salad 97 

Breakfast  Casserole   98 

Broccoli-Chicken  Casserole  ....  98 

Burrito    99 

California  Casserole 99 

Cheese  and  Green  Chile  Pie  ...  99 

Cheese  Souffle 100 

Chicken  and  Broccoli  Casserole  101 

Chicken  and  Dumplings 100 

Chicken  and  Ham  Supreme  .  .  102 
Chicken  Asparagus  Casserole  .  101 

Chicken  Cacciatore    103 

Chicken  Casserole 103 

Chicken  Casserole   104 

Chicken  Enchiladas 104 

Chicken  Lasagna  Florentine  .  .   105 

Chicken  Spectacular 105 

Chicken  Tetrazzini 106 


-C- 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Chilaquiles 108 

Chili    106 

Chili  Cheese  Squares   107 

Chili  Con  Carne    107 

Company  Breakfast  Casserole  108 

Crab  Casserole 109 

Crab  Quiche    109 

Crock-Pot  Lasagna 109 

Easy  Chicken  and  Rice    110 

Easy  Chicken  Pot  Pie 110 

Eggs  A  La  Suisse Ill 

Gringo  Chicken Ill 

Ham  and  Cheese  Souffle    ....  112 

Ham  and  Sausage  Jambalaya  .  112 

Ham  Casserole 113 

Hamburger  Casserole 113 

Herbed  Lemon  Barbecued 

Chicken   114 

Hutspot 114 

Impossible  Reuben  Pie 115 

Kielbasa  Dinner 115 

Lasagna 116 

Macaroni  and  Cheese  - 

Cheddar  and  Swiss 116 

Mexican  Delight 117 

My  Mother's  Beef  Fromage    .  .  1 17 

Red  Beans 118 

Reuben  Casserole 118 

Sea  Legs  Casserole 118 

Seven  Layer  Casserole 119 

Shrimp  'N  Salsa 119 

Shrimp  Fettucine 123 

Spaghetti  Pie 124 

Spinach  and  Cheese  Lasagna 

Roll-Ups 119 

Spinach  Fandango  With 

Noodles    120 

Stuffed  Peppers   120 

Sunday  Brunch  Casserole  ....  120 
Supremely  Easy  Spinach 

Lasagna   121 

Taco  Salad 121 


Tamale  Pie    122 

Turkey  Roll-Ups    122 

Upside-Down  Pizza   123 

Veggie  Squares 124 

Welsh  Rarebit    125 

Meat,  Poultry  &  Seafood 

Ann  Landers'  Meat  Loaf    ....  127 

Baked  Crabmeat  and  Shrimp  .  127 

Barbecue  Kielbasa 127 

Bay  Island  Crab  Cakes 128 

Beef  and  Wine 128 

Beef  Barbecue   128 

Beef  Tips 129 

Brisket  Pot  Roast 129 

Buffalo  Wings   129 

Cheese  and  Chicken  Casserole  130 

Chicken  Elegant    132 

Chicken  Marsala    132 

Chicken  Parmesan 133 

Chicken  Roll-Ups 133 

Chicken  With  Snow  Peas 134 

Company  Roast  Beef 134 

Country  Captain    135 

Crab  and  Mushroom  Quiche  .  .  135 

Crab  Casserole 130 

Crab  Quiche    131 

Crab  Quiche    131 

Cranberry  Chicken 136 

Easy  Beef  Stew    136 

Faux  Filet  Mignon 136 

Festive  Chicken  Rolls 137 

Herbed  Lemon  Barbecued 

Chicken   137 

Jambalaya 138 

Joella  Chicken 139 

Marinated  Pork  Roast    139 

Meat  Loaf 140 

Mother's  Scalloped  Oysters  .  .  .  140 

New  Year's  Barbecue 141 

Oven  Barbecued  Brisket 141 

Paella    142 


-D- 


Pam's  Fish  With  Herbs    142 

Pearl's  Crab  Mousse 143 

Polynesian  Chicken    143 

Roast  Leg  Of  Lamb   143 

Scalloped  Oysters 144 

Seafood  Casserole    144 

Seafood  Gourmet 145 

Shrimp    145 

Shrimp  A  La  Bob 144 

Shrimp  Remoulade    146 

Sweet  and  Sour  Meatballs  ....  146 

Sweet  and  Sour  Pork 147 

Teriyaki  Steak 147 

Soups  &  Salads 

Acini  De  Pepe  Salad    159 

Best  Ever  Potato  Salad 159 

Blueberries  and  Avocado    ....   160 

Broccoli  Chicken  Salad    160 

Broccoli  Chowder 149 

Broccoli  Salad   160 

Broccoli  Salad   161 

Broccoli  Salad   161 

Broccoli  Slaw 161 

Brown  Rice  Seafood  Salad   .  .  .   162 

Brunswick  Stew 149 

Brunswick  Stew 150 

Brunswick  Stew 150 

Carrot  and  Tarragon  Soup  ...  151 

Cashew  Salad    162 

Cherry  Pretzel  Salad    163 

Chicken  and  Spinach  Tossed 

Salad   164 

Chicken  Broccoli  Soup 151 

Chicken  Salad 163 

Chilled  Cucumber- Yogurt  Soup  151 

Christmas  Salad 164 

Coleslaw    165 

Confetti  Salad   165 

Congealed  Asparagus  Salad   .  .   166 

Congealed  Fruit  Salad 166 

Cranberry  Salad 166 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Cucumber  Dill  Soup 152 

Doug's  Seafood  Bisque 152 

Frozen  Cranberry  Salad 167 

Garbanzo  Bean  Salad 167 

Grapefruit  Aspic    167 

Grapefruit  Avocado  Chantilly  .  168 
Hamburger  Vegetable  Chowder  152 

Honey  Coleslaw 168 

Imogene's  Gourmet  Spinach 

Salad   169 

Italian  Stew 153 

Jeanne's  Virginia  Brunswick 

Stew 153 

Korean  Salad 169 

Layered  Cherry  Cheese  Molded 

Salad   170 

Marinated  Vegetable  Salad  ...  171 
Marinated  Vegetable  Salad  ...  172 

Marinated  Vegetables 170 

Marinated  Vegetables 171 

Midwestern  Chowder 153 

Mushroom-Barley  Soup    154 

Pasta  Salad  For  A  Large 

Crowd    172 

Pea  Salad    173 

Peanut  Soup    154 

Polynesian  Chicken  Salad  ....  173 

Potato  Soup 154 

Rice  Artichoke  Salad 173 

Rice  Salad 174 

Rice  Salad 174 

Scandinavian  Fruit  Soup    ....  155 
Soupe  A  L'oignon  Gratinee    .  .  156 

Spicy  Vegetable  Soup 157 

Summertime  Fruit  Salad    ....  175 

Sweet  and  Sour  Salad    174 

Taco  Salad 175 

Taco  Soup 157 

Taco  Soup 158 

Tasty  Fruit  Salad 176 

Tomato  and  Cucumber  Salad  .   176 
Vegetable  Burger  Soup 158 


-E- 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Yellow  Squash  Marinade    ....  176 

Yogurt  Salad 176 

This  "N"  That 

Apple  Cider 177 

Bean  and  Corn  Salsa 177 

Best  Ever  Dirty  Rice    177 

Candied  Dill  Pickles 178 

Chili  For  Hot  Dogs    178 

Cranberry-Apple  Casserole  .  .  .  178 

Cranberry  Relish   179 

Friday  Night  Fudge 179 

Frozen  Cucumbers 179 

Garlic  Cheese  Grits   180 

Gnocchi 180 

Hot  Fruit  Casserole   181 

Hot  Fruit  Casserole   181 

Jim's  Barbecue  Sauce 182 

Lime-Zucchini  Marmalade  ...  182 

Microwave  Fudge 182 

Microwave  Peanut  Brittle  ....  183 

"Misha"  Spaghetti  Sauce 183 

Never  Fail  Salad  Dressing    ...  183 

Noodle  Kugel 184 

Peanut  Brittle    184 

Picnic  Ham  Salad    185 

Pineapple  Souffle 185 

Red  Rice 185 

Strawberry  Slurp 185 

Very  Curry  Fruit 186 

Waffles   186 

Vegetables 

Artichoke  Hearts  Romano    ...  187 

Asparagus  Au  Gratin 187 

Asparagus  Casserole 187 

Baked  Asparagus 188 

Baked  Bean  Casserole    188 

Baked  Beans   188 

Basic  Black  Beans    189 

Beets  In  Sour  Cream  Sauce    .  .  189 

Best  Ever  Baked  Beans    189 


Best  Ever  Barbecue  Beans  ...  190 
Bettie  Williams  Corn  Pudding     190 

Blue  Lake  Green  Beans    190 

Broccoli  Casserole   191 

Broccoli  Casserole   191 

Broccoli  Stuffed  Tomatoes   .  .  .  191 

Broiled  Tomatoes 192 

Busy  Woman's  Dinner 192 

Butternut  Squash  Souffle 192 

Cheese-Beans 193 

Confetti  Scalloped  Potatoes  .  .  193 
Corn  and  Tomato  Chesapeake    194 

Corn  Pudding    194 

Eastern  Shore  Baked  Corn  ...  194 

Easy  Eggplant 195 

Fire  and  Ice  Tomatoes 195 

Glazed  Apple  Slices 195 

Grandmother's  Stuffed 

Tomatoes 196 

Green  Bean  Casserole    196 

Harvard  Beets 196 

Mary's  Baked  Beans 197 

Mushrooms  Florentine 197 

Peggy's  Southwestern  Beans  .  .  197 
Pineapple  With  Sweet  Potatoes  198 

Posh  Squash    198 

Ranch  Beans 198 

Riverpoint  Farm  Squash 

Casserole    199 

Skillet  Cabbage    199 

Squash  Casserole 200 

Stir-Fry  Vegetables 200 

String  Bean  Casserole    200 

Supreme  Broccoli  Casserole  .  .  201 
Sweet  and  Sour  Red  Cabbage  .  201 

Sweet  Potato  Casserole 202 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding    202 

Sweet  Potato  Surprise    203 

Vegetable  Casserole 203 

Vegetable  Medley 204 

Vidalia  Onion  Casserole 204 

Walnut  Broccoli 205 


-F- 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 

Wild  Rice  Casserole 205 


-G 


NOTES 

-•NOTES— 


-H- 


Trading  recipes  has  been  a  ^ 

popular  hobby  for  generations.  Now 
you  can  turn  this  tradition  into  aft^ 

citing  and  profitable  Fund  Raising 
Program  that  involves  the  entire 
community!  Fundcraft  helps  you  every  step  of 
the  way  with  a  proven  plan  that  guarantees  youjrsuccess. 
Request  your  FREE  copy  of  our  Recipes  F©r"SucG(ff>ooklet  that 
explains  how  easy  it  is  to  publish  your  own  cookbook.  You  collect 
recipes  and  Fundcraft  does  the  rest! 


Send  Me  Your  Recipe  For  Success! 

□  V#*c!  ^enc'  me  more  ''^onTiat'on  on  publishing  a 
1C5  •  personalized  cookbook  with  no  obligation. 

For  faster  service  call  1-800-351-7822 

Visit  us  on  the  internet  at:  http://wwwxookbooks.com 


Organization 
Your  Name 

Address 

City 

State      

Home  Phone  (_  -  4- 


Zip 


■  -jiJWP^MP1   ^! 

^1 

>*    Best 

|X~.     /!      TU   luiht  i  ill 
\\.iM             t*mmjSci" 

WW  m 

3J 

The  Fundcraft  Sampler 


Raise  Funds!  Create  Your  Own 
Cookbook  With  Fundcraft! 


If  you  belong  to  an  organization  that  needs  money,  or  want  to  raise  funds  for  a  worthy 
cause,  send  in  this  card  today.  For  whatever  reason  you  publish  a  cookbook,  Fundcraft  has  a 
low  cost,  guaranteed  cookbook  plan  for  you.  All  you  do  is  collect  the  recipes  from  friends 
and  neighbors  -  FUNDCRAFT  DOES  THE  REST! 


Raise  $5,000  or  more! 

Fundcraft 's  time-tested  plan  allows  you  to 
offer  an  attractive,  professional  cookbook 
everyone  will  love  that  has  a  perceived  value 
of  many  times  its  actual  cost.  Fundcraft 
cookbooks  are  easy  to  do  and  easy  to  sell 
when  you  follow  our  plan. 

Our  "Recipe  For  Success" 

Fundcraft  has  been  publishing  cookbooks 
since  1942.  We  help  you  every  step  of  the  way  so 
that  you  and  your  members  have  FUN  while  pro- 
viding a  constructive  service  for  your  community. 


Quality  ingredients 

Fundcraft  quality  allows  you  to  have  a 
personalized  cookbook  with  your  name  on 
the  cover  and  in  many  places  throughout  the  book. 
You  can  also  choose  from  hill-color  covers  and 
divider  sheets.  Your  members'  names  will  appear 
with  the  recipes  they  submit. 

No  investment  or  risk 

Fundcraft  trusts  you  with  an  easy  6"  day  pa\ment 
plan  after  we  ship  your  books.  Your  success  is  guar- 
anteed so  there's  no  worry  about  cost.  Follow  our 
plan  and  your  cookbooks  will  sell  themselves. 


For  even  faster  service,  call  1-800-351-7822 

visit  our  internel  site  @  httpy/www.cookbooks.com 

(/jH)fe<s<siofia/  Goo/i6ooks  on  wjundrHU&ina  6uc/cjet 

(Tear  along  perforation,  fill  in  other  side  and  mail) 


BUSINESS  REPLY  MAIL 

FIRST-CLASS  MAIL  PERMIT  NO  58  COLLIERVILLE,  TN 


POSTAGE  WILL  BE  PAID  BY  ADDRESSEE 


Fundcraft 

Personalized  Community  Cookbooks 


P.O.  Box  340 

Collierville,  TN  38027-9987 


lull, I,, I, II I, II, nil, I, , I, l„l, ,1,1, nil, nil 


A  guide  to  healthy  cooking  and  eating 

People  are  more  concerned  than  ever  about  making  the  right 
choices  when  it  comes  to  eating.  Once  primarily  concerned  with 
weight  and  calories,  now  consumers  want  to  know  more  about 
what  they  are  putting  into  their  bodies.  Their  concerns  include 
a  number  of  diet  related  topics  such  as  cholesterol,  fat,  fiber, 
sodium,  as  well  as  calorie  intake. 

Fundcraft  Publishing  has  gathered  important  nutritional  infor- 
mation to  help  consumers  eat  smart.  The  following  pages 
include  topics  such  as  nutrient  content  claims,  health  claims 
and  the  new  food  label  and  how  this  information  can  play  a  role 
in  your  family's  diet  and  overall  good  health. 


Cooking  Hints 


The  role  of  fat  in  your  diet 

Fat  consumption  has  been  linked  to  heart  disease,  obesity,  some 
types  of  cancer  and  gallbladder  disease.  Many  public  and  private 
health  authorities  now  recommend  that  Americans  strive  to 
reduce  their  intake  of  dietary  fat. 

The  problem  that  confronts  so  many  people  now  is  how  to  trans- 
late these  recommendations  for  a  reduced-fat  diet  to  their  every- 
day menu.  Basically,  this  means  selecting  foods  which  are  low 
in  fat  or  fat  free  more  often.  Choosing  vegetables  and  fruits, 
cereals  and  grain  products,  fish,  lean  meats  and  low-fat  dairy 
products  will  help  reduce  your  daily  intake  of  fat. 
Not  all  fats  are  created  equal  and  not  all  fats  are  bad. 
Cholesterol  and  saturated  fats  are  the  hardest  on  your  heart, 
while  monosaturated  and  polyunsaturated  fats  are  the  easiest. 
Here's  how  to  recognize  all  four  in  your  diet: 

CHOLESTEROL  is  a  fatty  substance  found  in  animal  foods 
including  meat,  poultry,  fish,  egg  yolks,  milk,  cream,  cheese, 
butter  and  other  dairy  products.  Foods  derived  from  plants  such 
as  fruits,  vegetables,  grains  and  nuts  contain  no  cholesterol  at 
all. 

SATURATED  FATS  are  primarily  contained  in  animal  foods 
including  red  meat  and  whole  milk  dairy  products.  Saturated 
fats  can  also  be  found  in  certain  types  of  oils,  notably  coconut 
and  palm  and  palm  kernel  oils,  which  are  used  in  commercially 
baked  goods.  It's  a  good  idea  to  cut  down  on  foods  high  in  sat- 
urated fats  and  to  make  substitutions  whenever  possible. 

MONOSATURATED  FATS  are  not  considered  harmful  to  your 
heart,  and  new  research  suggests  they  may  actually  reduce  your 
blood  cholesterol  level  and,  thus,  your  risk  of  cardiovascular  dis- 
ease. This  type  of  fat  is  found  in  olive  oil,  and  in  certain  plant 
foods  including  avocados. 

POLYUNSATURATED  FATS  also  tend  to  reduce  blood  choles- 
terol levels.  It's  the  kind  of  fat  you  find  most  typically  in  sun- 
flower, corn,  soybean  and  safflower  oils. 


Decreasing  Your  Fat  Intake 

You  can  lower  your  cholesterol  level  and  decrease  your  risk  of 
heart  disease  by  cutting  down  on  your  fat  consumption.  Here 
are  some  ways: 


Avoid  fried  foods;  bake  or  broil. 

Choose  lean  meats;  cut  off  the  fat  before  cooking. 

Avoid  luncheon  meats  (hot  dogs,  bologna). 

Eat  sparingly  of  sausage  and  bacon. 

Remove  skin  from  poultry  (before  cooking,  if  possible). 

Steam  vegetables. 

Use  half  the  fat  (oil,  margarine,  butter,  lard,  shortening,  mayonnaise) 

called  for  in  recipes. 
Use  less  than  1  teaspoon  margarine  or  butter  on  bread,  hot  cereals, 

vegetables. 
Use  low-fat  salad  dressings;  limit  other  salad  dressings  to  1  tablespoon. 
Season  with  herbs,  lemon,  vinegar,  onion,  garlic,  tomato  products. 
Thicken  sauces,  soups  with  a  mixture  of  corn  starch  (or  flour)  and 

cold  water. 
For  snacks,  choose  fruit,  vegetables,  whole  grain  bread/cereals/ 

crackers. 
Choose  low-fat  milk  products  such  as  buttermilk,  2%  fat  milk,  non-fat 

dry  milk  powder  and  skim  milk. 
Use  lean  pieces  of  meat  instead  of  fatback  as  seasoning  for  beans, 


peas,  greens. 


How  to  Pick  What's  Good  for  Your  Diet 

Formula  %  of  calories  from  fat: 

(Grams  of  Fat)  x  9/(Calories  per  serving) = 

(Percent  of  calories  from  fat) 


The  following  pages  provide  information  on  how  to  reduce  fat  when 
making  selections  from  the  various  food  groups. 


Cooking  Hints 


Fats  and  Oils 


Some  of  these  foods  are  high  in  vitamins  A  or  E,  but  all  are 
high  in  fat  and  calories. 

SERVINGS  PER  DAY: 

No  more  than  a  total  of  5-8,  depending  on  your  caloric  needs. 

SERVING  SIZE: 

1  tsp.  vegetable  oil  or  regular  margarine 

2  tsp.  diet  margarine 

1  Tbsp.  salad  dressing 

2  tsp.  mayonnaise  or  peanut  butter 

3  tsp.  seeds  or  nuts 
1/8  of  medium  avocado 
10  small  or  5  large  olives 


CHOOSE  FROM: 

Vegetable  oils  and  margarine  with  no  more  than  2  grams  of  sat- 
urated fatty  acids  per  tablespoon  -  canola,  corn,  olive,  saf- 
flower,  sesame,  soybean,  sunflower. 

Salad  dressings  and  mayonnaise  with  no  more  than  1  gram  of 
saturated  fatty  acids  per  tablespoon. 

•  Use  fats  and  oils  sparingly  and  use  the  ones  lowest  in  satu- 
rated fatty  acids  and  cholesterol. 

•  Use  hydrogenated  shortening  sparingly  and  choose  those 
made  from  vegetable  fat.  They  are  lower  in  saturated  fatty 
acids  than  those  made  from  animal/vegetable  fat  blends. 

•  Use  cooking  styles  that  add  little  or  no  fat  to  food,  and  ask 
for  them  when  eating  out.  || 

•  Replace  saturated  fats  with  more  healthful  substitutes.  For 
example,  when  your  own  recipe  calls  for  butter,  lard,  bacon, 
bacon  fat  or  chicken  fat,  use  margarine  that  contains  no 
more  than  2  grams  of  saturated  fatty  acids  per  1  table- 
spoon, or  unsaturated  vegetable  oil. 


Using  Vegetable  Oils 

The  liquid  vegetable  oils  or  margarine  that  contain  no  more 
than  2  grams  of  saturated  fatty  acids  per  tablespoon,  can  be 
used  in  many  ways  in  cooking  that  requires  the  use  of  fat.  For 
example: 

•  To  brown  lean  meats  and  to  pan  or  oven-fry  fish  and  poultry. 

•  To  saute  onions  and  other  vegetables  for  soup. 

•  In  cream  sauces  and  soups  made  with  skim  milk. 

•  In  whipped  or  scalloped  potatoes  with  skim  milk  added. 

•  For  making  hot  breads,  pie  crusts  and  cakes. 

•  For  popping  corn  and  making  cocktail  snacks. 

•  In  casseroles  made  with  dried  peas  or  beans. 

•  In  browning  rice  and  for  Spanish  or  curried  rice. 

•  In  cooking  dehydrated  potatoes  and  other  prepared  foods 
that  call  for  fat  to  be  added. 

FATS  AND  OILS 

Animal  fat  tends  to  be  higher  in  saturated  fat  than  vegetable  oils,  which 
are  generally  higher  in  polyunsaturated  fats.  Vegetable  shortening  and 
margarine  (see  "Dairy  and  Egg  Products")  that  have  been  hardened  by 
hydrogenating  contain  varying  amounts  of  saturated  fat,  depending  on 
the  brand.  Only  animal  fats  contain  cholesterol.  Amounts  given  are  for 
one  tablespoon. 

Calories  Total  Fat  Saturated  Cholesterol 

(grams*)  (grams)  (milligrams) 
FATS 

Animal  fats*  1  tablespoon 

Beef  fat                                              116  12.8  6.4                  14 

Chicken  fat                          ^gfiPi^'  *2.8  3.8                   11 

Lard                                                   116  12.8  5.0                 12 

OILS 

Vegetable  oils,  1  tablespoon  P^  Ki  >MM 

Canola  124                14.0               1.0                   0 

Corn  120               13.6               1.7                   0 

Cottonseed  120               13.6              3.5                  0 

Olive  IMELS  119  13-5  1-8  ° 

Peanut  *3fc, 119  13.5  2.3  0 

Safflower,  70%  linoleic  LM£ 120  13.6  5.2  0 

Soybean  Vtr*5ffiJ5 120  13.6  2.0  0 

Sunflower,  60%  linoleic  120  13.6  1.4  0 

Mixed  (mostly  soybean, 

some  cottonseed)  120  13.6  2.4  0 

Palm  120  13.6     ~X$-7  0 

Palm  kernel  120  13.6  11.1  0 


Cooking  Hints 


Breads,  Cereals,  Pasta  and 
Starchy  Vegetables 

Low  in  Fat  and  Cholesterol 
High  in  B  Vitamins,  Iron  and  Fiber 

SERVINGS  PER  DAY: 

6  or  more 

SERVING  SIZE: 

1  slice  bread 

1/4  cup  nugget  or  bud-type  cereal 

1/2  cup  hot  cereal 

1  cup  cooked  rice  or  pasta 

1/4-1/2  cup  starchy  vegetables 

CHOOSE  FROM: 
Breads  and  rolls  - 

wheat,  rye,  raisin  or  white  bread 

English  muffins  iNBk 

frankfurter  and  hamburger  buns 

water  (not  egg)  bagels 

pita  bread 

tortillas  (not  friedVlgK 

*Crackers  and  snacks  - 
animal,  graham,  rye  crackers 
soda,  saltine,  oyster  crackers 

matzo  Hlr.     f 

fig  bar,  ginger  snap,  molasses  cookies 

bread  sticks,  melba  toast 

rusks,  flat  bread 

pretzels,  (unsalted)  |/i  i     M 

popcorn  (see  "Fats  and  Oils"  for  preparation) 

"  Many  kinds  of  crackers  and  snacks  are  now  available  with  no  added  salt 
or  unsalted  tops.  Some  are  high  in  saturated  fatty  acids,  so  read  the 
labels. 


**  Quick  breads  - 

homemade  using  margarine  or  oils  low  in  saturated  fatty 

acids,  skim  or  1%  fat  milk,  and  egg  whites  or  egg  substitutes 

(or  egg  yolks  within  limits) 

biscuits,  muffins,  cornbread 

fruit  breads,  soft  rolls 

pancakes,  French  toast,  waffles     ^^v 


+  Hot  or  cold  cereals  - 
all  kinds  (granola-type  may  be  high  in  fat  or  saturated  fatty 
acids) 

+  Rice  and  pasta  - 
all  kinds  (pasta  made  without  egg  yolk) 

Starchy  vegetables  - 
potatoes,  corn 
lima  beans,  green  peas 
winter  squash 
yams,  sweet  potatoes 

++ Soups  - 

chicken  noodle,  chowders,  minestrone,  onion,  split  pea, 
tomato-based  seafood 

**  If  you  use  any  egg  yolks  in  cooking  quick  breads,  be  sure  to 

count  them  in  your  daily  allowance. 
+  Cereals,  pasta  and  rice  cooked  without  salt  are  lower  in  sodi- 
um than  instant  or  ready-to-eat  types  of  these  foods. 

++Most  soups  are  high  in  sodium  and  some  are  high  in  fat. 
When  buying  soups,  read  labels  and  choose  those  low  in 
sodium  and  fat.  You  can  also  make  your  own  soups  and  con- 
trol both  sodium  and  fat. 


Cooking  Hints 


Vegetables  and  Fruits 

High  in  Vitamins,  Minerals  and  Fiber; 

Low  in  Fat,  Calories  and  Sodium... 

Contain  no  Cholesterol 

SERVINGS  PER  DAY: 
5  or  more 

SERVING  SIZE. 

1  medium  size  piece  of  fruit  or  1/2  cup  fruit  juice 

1/2-1  cup  cooked  or  raw  vegetables 

CHOOSE  FROM: 

All  vegetables  and  fruits  except  coconut.  Olives  and  avocados 
should  be  counted  as  fats  (see  Fats  and  Oils  section).  Starchy 
vegetables  are  listed  with  Breads,  Cereals,  Pasta  and  Starchy 
Vegetables  because  they  are  similar  in  calories  per  serving  to  the 
other  foods  in  that  group. 

•  Enjoy  plenty  of  fruits  and  vegetables.  If  you  are  watching  your 
weight,  these  foods  will  give  you  vitamins,  minerals  and 

fiber  with  few  calories.  Be  sure  to  include  sources  rich  in  vita- 
mins C  &  A. 

•  Check  the  labels  for  sodium  content  of  canned  vegetables. 


Vegetables 


Vegetables  can  be  made  more  tempting  by  adding  herbs  and 
spices.  For  example,  these  combinations  add  new  and  subtle  fla- 
vors: 

•  rosemary  with  peas,  cauliflower  and  squash 

•  oregano  with  zucchini 

•  dill  with  green  beans 

•  marjoram  with  Brussels  sprouts,  carrots  and  spinach 

•  basil  with  tomatoes 

Start  with  a  small  quantity  (1/8  to  1/2  teaspoon  to  a  package  of 
frozen  vegetables),  then  let  your  own  taste  be  your  guide.  Chopped 
parsley  and  chives,  sprinkled  on  just  before  serving,  also  enhance 
the  flavor  of  many  vegetables. 

Try  cooking  vegetables  in  a  tiny  bit  of  vegetable  oil,  adding  a  little 
water  during  cooking  if  needed,  or  use  a  vegetable  oil  spray.  Only 
1  to  2  teaspoons  of  oil  is  enough  for  a  package  of  frozen  vegeta- 
bles that  serves  four.  Place  in  a  skillet  with  tight  cover,  season  and 
cook  over  a  very  low  heat  until  vegetables  are  done. 


TABLE  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES 


Vegetable 


Ways  To 
Prepare 


Cooking 


Time 


CELERY  Scrub  thoroughly. 

Cut  off  leaves  and 
trim  roots.  Slice  into 
desired  lengths. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling 
water  or  in  consomme. 


10-15  mins. 


CORN  Remove  husks  and 

silks  from  fresh 
coiiiu  Rinse  and 
cook  whole. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling 
water;  or  cook  uncov- 
ered in  enough  boiling 
salted  water  to  cover 
ears. 


6-8  mins. 


EGGPLANT 


Wash;  if  skin  is 
tough,  pare.  Cut  in 
1/2  inch  slices. 


Dip  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  fine  dry  bread 
crumbs.  Brown  slowly 
on  both  sides  in  hot 
oil.  Season. 


Approx. 
4  mins. 


MUSHROOMS 


Wash;  cut  off  tips  of 
stems.  Leave  whole 
or  slice. 


Add  to  melted  mar- 
garine in  skillet;  sprin- 
kle with  flour  ana  mix. 
Cover  and  cook  slowly, 
turning  occasionally. 


8-10  mins. 


OKRA 


Wash  pods;  cut  off 
stems.  Slice  or  leave 
whole. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling  salt- 
ed water. 


8-15  mins. 


PARSNIPS 


Wash  thoroughly; 
pare  or  scrape. 
Slice  lengthwise  or 
crosswise. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling  salt- 
ed water. 


15-20  mins. 


PEAS,  Green       Shell  and  wash. 


Cook  covered  in  small 
amount  of  boiling 
water. 


8-15  mins. 


SPINACH 


Cut  off  roots  and 
wash  several  times 
in  lukewarm  water, 
lifting  out  of  water 
as  you  wash. 


Cook  covered  without 
adding  water.  Reduce 
heat  when  steam 
forms.  Turn  often 
while  cooking. 


3-5  mins. 


TOMATOES 


Wash  ripened 
tomatoes. 


Cook  slowly,  covered, 
without  adding  water. 


10-15  mins. 


ZUCCHINI 


Wash;  do  not  pare. 
Slice  thin. 


Season  and  cook  cov- 
ered in  margarine  for 
5  mins.  Uncover  and 
cook  till  tender,  turn- 
ing slices. 


10  mins. 
Total 


Cooking  Hints 


A  "QUIC% 


ummary  Of 


*icrhs  (So  Seeds 


DILL 


FENNEL 


MARJORAM 


TARRAGON 


CURRY 
POWDER 


Both  leaves  and  seeds  of  dill  are  used.  Leaves  may  be 
used  as  a  garnish  or  to  cook  with  fish.  Leaves  or  the 
whole  plant  may  be  used  to  flavor  dill  pickles. 

Has  a  sweet,  hot  flavor.  Both  seeds  and  leaves  are  used. 
Seeds  may  be  used  as  a  spice  in  very  small  quantity  in 
pies  and  baked  goods.  Leaves  may  be  boiled  with  fish. 

May  be  used  both  green  and  dry  for  flavoring  soups  and 
ragouts;  and  in  stuffing  for  all  meats  and  fish. 

Leaves  have  a  hot,  pungent  taste.  Valuable  to  use  in  all 
salads  and  sauces.  Excellent  in  tartar  sauce.  Leaves  are 
pickled  with  gherkins.  Used  to  flavor  vinegar. 

A  number  of  spices  combined  to  proper  proportions  to  give 
a  distinct  flavor  to  such  dishes  as  vegetables,  meat,  poultry 
and  fish. 


CHIVES  Leaves  are  used  in  many  ways.  May  be  used  in  salads, 

cream  cheese,  sandwiches,  omelets,  soups  and  fish 
dishes.  Mild  flavor  of  onion. 


SAGE 


Used  fresh  and  dried.  May  be  used  in  poultry  and  meat 
stuffings;  in  sausage  and  practically  all  meat  combina- 
tions; in  cheese  and  vegetable  combinations,  as  in  veg- 
etable loaf,  or  curry.  The  flowers  are  sometimes  used  in 
salads. 


continued 


10 


contin 
CARAWAY 

PAPRIKA 


BASIL 


OREGANO 


BAY  LEAF 


GINGER 


CHERVIL 


SHALLOTS 


VINEGAR 


Seeds  have  a  spicy  smell  and  aromatic  taste.  Used  in  baked 


goods,  cakes,  breads,  soups,  cheese  and  sauerkraut. 

A  Hungarian  red  pepper.  Bright  red  in  color.  May  be 
used  in  all  meat  and  vegetable  salads,  in  soups,  both 
cream  and  stock.  As  a  garnish  for  potatoes,  cream 
cheese,  salads  or  eggs. 

Aromatic  odor,  warm,  sweet  flavor,  used  whole  or 
ground.  Used  with  lamb,  fish  and  vegetable  dishes. 

Whole  or  ground,  strong  aromatic  odor,  used  with  tomato 
sauces,  pizza  and  veal  dishes. 

A  pungent  flavor.  Available  as  whole  leaf.  Good  in  vegetable 
and  fish  soups,  tomato  sauces  and  juice.  Remove  before 
serving. 

An  aromatic,  pungent  root,  sold  fresh,  dried  or  ground. 
May  be  used  in  pickles,  preserves,  cakes,  cookies,  puddings, 
soups,  pot  roasts. 

Aromatic  herb  of  carrot  family,  like  parsley  but  more 
delicate.  Used  fresh  or  dry  in  salads,  soups,  egg  and 
cheese  dishes. 

Small  type  onion  producing  large  clusters  of  small  bulbs. 
Used  like  garlic  to  flavor  meats,  poultry,  sausage,  head 
cheese. 

Low  percentage  natural  acid,  generally  acetic  acid.  Used  as 
a  preservative  for  all  pickling  of  vegetables  and  fruit.  To 
give  zest  or  tangy  flavor  to  salad  dressings;  for  meat,  fish 
and  vegetable  sauces.  Different  kinds  are  wine  vinegar, 
white  vinegar,  cider  vinegar,  tarragon  vinegar. 


Cooking  Hints 


11 


Milk  Products 

High  in  Protein,  Calcium,  Phosphorus, 
Niacin,  Riboflavin,  Vitamins  A  and  D 

SERVINGS  PER  DAY: 

2  or  more  for  adults  over  24  years  and  children  2-10  years; 

3  ■  4  for  ages  1 1  -  24  and  women  who  are  pregnant  or  breast- 
feeding 

SERVING  SIZE: 

1  cup  skim,  1/2%  or  1%  fat  milk 

1  cup  nonfat  or  low-fat  yogurt 

1  oz.  low-fat  cheese  or  1/2  cup  low-fat  cottage  cheese 

CHOOSE  FROM: 

Milk  products  with  0-1%  fat: 

skim  milk 

1/2  -  1%  fat  milk 

nonfat  or  low-fat  dry  milk  powder 

evaporated  skim  milk 

buttermilk  made  from  skim  or  1%  fat  milk 

nonfat  or  low-fat  yogurt 

drinks  made  with  skim  or  1%  fat  milk  and  cocoa  (or  other  low- 
fat  drink  powders) 

Low-fat  cheeses: 
dry-curd,  skim  or  low-fat  cottage  cheese,  natural  or  processed 
cheeses  with  no  more  than  5  grams  of  fat  per  ounce. 

•  Skim,  1/2%  fat  and  1%  fat  milk  all  provide  the  same  nutrients 
as  whole  milk  and  2%  fat  milk.  But  they  are  much  lower  in  fat, 
saturated  fatty  acids,  cholesterol  and  calories. 

•  If  you're  used  to  whole  milk  products,  you  may  find  it  easier 
to  make  the  change  slowly  to  lower  fat  foods.  Try  2%  fat  milk 
first.  Then,  when  you're  used  to  that,  move  to  1%  fat  milk. 
That  will  make  it  much  easier  if  you  decide  to  change  to  skim 
milk. 

12 


Meat,  Poultry  and  Fish 

High  in  Protein,  B  Vitamins,  Iron 
and  Other  Minerals 

SERVINGS  PER  DAY: 

No  more  than  6  oz.  cooked  lean  meat,  poultry  or  fish 

SERVING  SIZE: 

3  oz.  cooked  (4  oz.  raw)  lean  meat,  poultry  or  fish 

Here  are  some  examples  to  help  you  judge  serving  sizes  of 
meat,  poultry  and  fish.  A  3-ounce  portion  equals: 

•  the  size  of  a  deck  of  playing  cards 

•  2  thin  slices  of  lean  roast  beef  (each  slice  3"  x  3"  x  1/4") 

•  1/2  of  a  chicken  breast  or  a  chicken  leg  with  thigh  (without 
skin) 

•  3/4  cup  of  flaked  fish 

CHOOSE  FROM:  ^^0mW^ 

Fish  (fresh,  frozen,  canned  in  water  or  rinsed) 

•  Shellfish  \ 
Chicken  (without  skin)                             l^4S%-»v 
Cornish  hen  (without  skin)                                      ^^1 
Turkey  (without  skin) 

Turkey,  ground 
**  Lean  beef  (from  the  round,  sirloin,  loin) 

Lean  or  extra  lean  ground  beef  —. 

+  Lean  ham 

Lean  pork  (tenderloin,  loin  chop)  Jj^* 

Lamb  (except  rib) 

Veal  (except  commercially  grown) 
++Wild  game  (rabbit,  venison,  pheasant,  duck  without  skin) 


Shrimp  and  crayfish  are  higher  in  cholesterol  than  most  other  types  of 
fish,  but  lower  in  fat  and  saturated  fatty  acids  than  most  meats  and  poultry. 
Buy  "choice"  or  "select"  grades  of  beef  rather  than  "prime." 
Ham  and  Canadian  bacon  are  higher  in  sodium  than  other  meats. 
++ Domesticated  versions  of  game  (duck  and  goose)  are  not  as  lean  as  wild 
game. 


+ 


Cooking  Hints 


13 


•  Organ  meats  are  very  high  in  cholesterol.  However,  liver  is 
rich  in  iron  and  vitamins  and  a  small  serving  (3  ounces)  is 
okay  about  once  a  month. 

•  Trim  off  all  the  fat  before  cooking  meat.  Drain  or  skim  off  fat 
from  cooked  meats  before  using  juices  in  stews,  soups,  gravies, 
etc. 

•  Remove  the  skin  and  fat  under  the  skin  from  poultry  pieces 
before  cooking.  If  you're  roasting  a  whole  chicken  or  turkey, 
leave  the  skin  on  to  keep  the  bird  from  getting  too  dry  while 
roasting.  Then  remove  the  skin  before  carving  and  serving  the 
meat. 

•  Select  whole  turkeys  that  have  not  been  injected  with  fats  or 
broths. 

•  Frozen  dinners  and  entrees  may  also  fit  into  the  plan.  Look  for 
those  that  are  made  specially  for  low-fat,  low-cholesterol,  low- 
sodium  diets. 

•  One  cup  serving  of  cooked  beans,  peas,  or  lentils,  or  3  ounces 
of  soy-bean  curd  (tofu),  can  replace  a  3  ounce  serving  of  meat, 
poultry  or  fish. 

Eggs 

High  in  Protein,  B  Vitamins,  Iron  and 
Other  Minerals 

SERVINGS  PER  WEEK: 

3  to  4  egg  yolks  a  week  may  be  eaten  (egg  whites  are  not 
limited). 

•  Because  of  their  cholesterol  content  (213  mg  per  yolk),  limit 
your  eggs  and  egg  yolks  to  no  more  than  3  to  4  per  week.  Be 
sure  to  count  any  egg  yolks  used  in  cooking  and  in  store-bought 
foods  in  your  total  for  the  week. 

•  Use  two  egg  whites,  or  one  egg  white  plus  2  teaspoons  of  unsat- 
urated oil,  in  place  of  one  whole  egg  in  cooking.  You  can  also 
use  cholesterol-free  commercial  egg  substitutes. 

•  Eat  only  cooked  eggs  and  egg  whites  -  not  raw. 


14 


Desserts 

A  healthy,  well-balanced  diet 

can  include  desserts. 

It's  important  to  select  your  desserts 

carefully  keeping  nutrition  in  mind. 

CHOOSE: 

Desserts  low  in  saturated  fatty  acids,  cholesterol  and  calories. 

For  a  special  treat,  share  a  dessert  portion  with  someone. 

FIRST  CHOICES: 

(low  in  fat  and  saturated  fatty  acids) 

Fruit  -  fresh,  frozen,  canned  or  dried 

Low-fat  yogurt  with  fruit 

Crackers  and  cookies  (as  listed  in  the  Breads  section) 

Angel  food  cake 

Frozen  low-fat  or  non-fat  yogurt 

Sherbet  or  ice  milk 

Flavored  gelatin 

Water  ices  or  sorbets  _  ** 


SPECIAL  OCCASIONS  ONLY: 
(higher  in  fat  and  calories) 
Homemade  desserts  (cakes,  pies,  cookies,  puddings)  made  with 
margarine  or  oils  low  in  saturated  fatty  acids,  skim  or  1%  fat 
milk  and  egg  whites  or  egg  substitutes  (or  egg  yolks  within 
limits).  Store-bought  desserts  -  many  are  now  made  with  unsat- 
urated oils  and  are  either  low-fat  or  non-fat.  Be  sure  to  read 
ingredient  lists. 


Cooking  Hints 


15 


A  Six  Month  Plan 

Reducing  fat  and  cholesterol  in  your  family's  diet  may  not  be  as  easy  as 
you  think.  Many  foods  once  thought  to  be  staples  of  a  well-balanced  diet 
are  loaded  with  fat  and  cholesterol.  Here's  a  simple  six  month  plan  to 
help  reduce  fat  and  cholesterol  in  your  family's  diet: 

MONTH  ONE: 

•  When  purchasing  meat,  select  lean,  well-trimmed  cuts  of  beef  or  pork. 

•  When  cooking,  use  vegetable  oil  or  softened  margarine  instead  of  lard 

or  butteig^SBfl^Jl 

•  Replace  two  red  meat  meals  each  week  with  poultry  or  fish  meals. 

MONTH  TWO:  J*\ 

•  Continue  recommendations  from  month  one. 

•  Switch  from  whole  milk  to  2%. 

•  Eat  two  fewer  eggs  each  week. 

•  Cut  your  consumption  of  high  fat  foods  such  as  bacon,  cream,  cold 
cuts,  ice  cream,  cakes,  pies  and  other  desserts. 

MONTH  THREE: 

•  Continue  recommendations  from  first  two  months. 

•  Avoid  non-dairy  creamers. 

•  Limit  organ  meat  meals  to  two  per  week. 

•  Cut  down  on  use  of  cheddar  cheese  and  cream  cheese. 

MONTH  FOUR: 

•  Continue  all  previous  recommendations. 

•  When  recipe  calls  for  two  eggs,  use  egg  whites  and  only  one  egg  yolk. 

•  Limit  intake  of  meat,  fish,  poultry  to  8  oz.  (cooked  weight)  per  day. 

•  When  ordering  salad  in  a  restaurant,  ask  for  the  dressing  on  the  side, 
then  use  sparingly.  Make  dressings  at  home  using  saff lower,  corn  or 
sunflower  oils. 

MONTH  FIVE: 

Continue  all  previous  recommendations. 

Switch  from  2%  milk  to  1%  or  skim  milk. 

Limit  your  consumption  of  high  fat  foods  such  as  bacon,  cold 

cuts,  cheeses,  etc 

Limit  fried  foods  to  one  serving  per  week. 

Eat  only  low-fat  variety  cheeses. 

MONTH  SIX: 

Continue  all  previous  recommendations. 
Eat  no  more  than  three  egg  yolks  per  week. 

Replace  five  red  meat  meals  with  fish  or  poultry,  or  high  protein  vege- 
tables. 

Limit  organ  meat  meals  to  one  per  week. 

Limit  your  intake  of  meat,  fish  or  poultry  to  4  oz.  cooked  weight  per  day. 
Prepare  and  eat  poultry  without  skin. 

16 


Managing  A  Well-Balanced  Diet 

There  are  several  components  to  managing  a  well-balanced  diet 
and  reducing  your  intake  of  fat  is  only  part  of  the  story.  A  diet 
that  is  high  in  sodium  or  low  in  fiber  or  one  that  lacks  variety 
may  not  be  well-balanced. 

Read  on  for  some  good  information  on  how  to  manage  your  diet 
so  that  it  remains  healthy  and  well-balanced. 

Bread,  Cereals  and  Grains 

Whole-grain  breads  and  cereals  are  important  sources  for  carbo- 
hydrates, iron  and  vitamins.  For  maximum  benefits  remember: 

•  Purchase  whole-grain  bread  made  from  stone-ground  flour  first. 

•  Next,  purchase  100%  whole-wheat  or  other  grain  bread. 

•  If  you  decide  to  purchase  white  bread,  be  certain  it  is  enriched. 

•  Dark  bread  means  nothing.  Most  dark  breads  contain  less  or  no 
whole  grains  -  just  molasses  for  coloring. 

•  High-fiber  breads  are  usually  lower  in  calories. 

•  Whole-grain  flour  may  be  used  in  bread  and  roll  recipes. 

Cereals 

•  Whole-grain  cereals  are  most  nutritious. 

•  Puffed  cereals  are  low  in  fat  and  salt. 
■♦  Granola  is  usually  high  in  fat,  salt  and  sugars. 

•  Oatmeal  is  the  best  choice  of  cereals. 

''■■"■■■■'I*^»3Pik 

Other  Grains 

•  Select  whole-grain,  brown  rice  first.  Converted  rice  comes  in 
a  distant  second.  Minute  rice  and  instant  rice  are  lowest  in 
nutrients. 

•  Pasta  is  made  from  a  wheat  called  durum.  Durum  won't  rise 
so  it  is  refined  into  a  flour  called  semolina.  From  this,  maca- 
roni, spaghetti  and  other  shapes  are  formed.  These  are  all 
nutritious  and  high  in  protein. 


Cooking  Hints  17 


Increase  Your  Fiber  Intake 

Dietary  fiber  is  the  term  used  for  several  materials  that  make 
up  the  parts  of  plants  that  your  body  cannot  digest.  Fiber  is  clas- 
sified as  soluble  or  insoluble.  The  AHA  eating  plan  suggests 
that  you  eat  foods  high  in  both  types  of  fiber.  Fruits,  vegetables, 
whole  grain  foods,  beans  and  legumes  are  all  good  sources  of 
dietary  fiber. 


To  Increase  Fiber  Intake 


WITH  GRAINS 


WITH  DRIED 
PEAS  AND  BEANS 

WITH  FRUITS  AND 
VEGETABLES 


"%s 


Eat  whole  grains  instead  of  white  rice,  grits, 
mashed  potatoes  and  other  refined  starches. 
Buy  baked  goods  and  crackers  where  the  first 
ingredient  on  the  label  is  a  whole  grain. 
Add  bran,  whole  grains,  nuts  to  casseroles, 
soups,  ice  cream,  yogurt.  Coat  vegetables, 
meats,  baked  products  with  them. 
Snack  on  whole  grain  cereals,  popcorn, 
crackers. 

Use  dried,  cooked  peas  or  beans  in 
place  of  all  or  part  of  meat  in  casseroles,  sal- 
ads, soups  and  meals.  JL     fm?iM 

Eat  a  fresh  fruit  or  vegetable  salad  at  least  2-3 
times  a  week. 

Eat  vegetables  and  fruits  with  skins  on  when 
possible. 

Choose  fruit  for  dessert. 
Eat  baked  potatoes  (with  skin)  in  place  of 
mashed  potatoes/  Yjg 
Eat  fresh  fruit  and  vegetables  in  place  of 
juice.  Drink  plenty  of  water. 
Choose  snacks  of  dried  or  fresh  fruits, 
berries,  fresh  vegetables. 
Steam  vegetables  until  crisp  and  tender. 


18 


Low-Fat  Eating  Begins 
With  Grains 

Enjoy  more  grains!  This  is  a  painless  secret  to  cut  fat,  control 
weight  and  improve  health.  Believe  it  or  not,  you  need  at  least  six 
servings  of  bread,  cereal,  pasta  and  other  grains  each  day. 

•  GRAINS  ARE  LOW  IN  FAT.  Grain  foods  are  packed  with  car- 
bohydrates which  contain  less  than  half  the  calories  of  fat. 

•  GRAINS  ARE  A  GOOD  ENERGY  SOURCE.  Complex  carbohy- 
drates are  our  best  source  of  fiber,  and  you'll  feel  satisfied  when 
you  eat. 

•  GRAINS  FILL  YOU  UP.  Because  grain  foods  are  an  excellent 
source  of  fiber,  you'll  feel  satisfied  when  you  eat  plenty  of  grain 
foods.  That  reduces  the  temptation  to  eat  higher-fat  foods. 

Carbohydrates  have  less  than  half  the  calories  of  fat;  therefore  you 
can  eat  more  than  twice  as  much  for  the  same  amount  of  calories. 

To  Fill  Up  and  Slim  Down 

TRY  THESE  SUGGESTIONS: 

•  Make  pasta  your  main  course  three  times  a  week. 

•  Eat  a  bowl  of  cereal  anytime...day  or  night 

•  Grab  a  bagel  or  low-fat  muffin  for  the  commute. 

•  Pack  a  pita  pocket  or  bagel  in  your  purse  or  briefcase  to  ease 
morning  hunger  pains. 

•  Serve  oriental  noodles  with  fresh  vegetables. 

•  Eat  a  breadstick  or  a  piece  of  French  bread. 

•  Snack  on  crackers,  pretzels  or  fig  bars. 

•  Roll  up  pancakes  with  fruit  jam  or  puree. 

•  Sprinkle  a  tortilla  with  cinnamon  and  enjoy  anytime. 

■J 


Cooking  Hints  19 


CALORIE  COUNTER 

CANDIES,  SNACKS  AND  NUTS  Calories 

Almonds 12  to  15 93 

Cashews 6  to  8 88 

Chocolate  Bar  (nut) 2  ounce  bar 340 

Coconut  (Shredded) 1  cup 344 

English  Toffee 1  piece 25 

Fudge 1  ounce 115 

Mints 5  very  small 50 

Peanuts  (salted) 1  ounce 190 

Peanuts  (roasted) 1  cup 800 

Pecans 6 ..^ 104 

Popcorn  (plain) 1  cup 54 

Potato  Chips 10  medium  chips 115 

Pretzels 10  small  sticks j:. 35 

Walnuts 8  to  10 100 

DAIRY  PRODUCTS    J&jr 

American  Cheese 1  cube,  1\  a  inch 100 

Butter  or  Oleomargarine 1  level  Tbsp. 100 

Cheese  (blue,  cheddar,  cream, 

Swiss) 1  ounce 105 

Cottage  Cheese  (uncreamed) 1  ounce 25 

Cream,  light. 1  Tbsp 30 

Cream,  whipped. 7  Tbsp 25 

Egg  White 1 15 

Egg  Yolk 1 61 

Eggs  (boiled  or  poached) . 2 160 

Eggs  (scrambled) 2 220 

Egg  (fried) 1  medium 110 

Yogurt  (flavored) 4  ounces 60 

DESSERTS 

Cakes: 

Angel  Food  Cake 2"  piece 110 

Cheesecake 2"  piece 200 

Chocolate  Cake,  iced 2"  piece 445 

Fruit  Cake 2"  piece 115 

Pound  Cake ., 1  ounce  piece. ...... . 140 

Sponge  Cake I .,...2"  piece 120 

Shortcake  with  fruit. „ 1  avg.  slice 300 

Cupcake,  iced .,..7 185 

Cupcake,  plain 1 145 

Pudding:  ^^Sm» 

Bread  Pudding '. '.  cup 150 

Flavored  Puddings cup 140 

Pies:  JfKi  — ^-.in^B 

Apple L-..1  piece 331 

Blueberry .,.,..i  piece 290 

Cherry 1  piece 355 

Custard. 1  piece 280 

Lemon  Meringue 1  piece 305 

Peach 1  piece 280 

20 


CALORIE  COUNTER 

DESSERTS  (Cont.)  Calories 

Pumpkin 1  piece 265 

Rhubarb 1  piece 265 

Ice  Cream: 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream '/?  cup „_,. 200 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream '/?  cup 150 

Miscellaneous: 

Chocolate  Eclair,  custard 1  small 250 

Cookies,  assorted 1,  3-inch  dia 120 

Cream  Puff. 1 , 296 

Jello,  all  flavors '/z  cup 78 

BEVERAGES  AND  JUICES 

Chocolate  Malted 8  ounces 450 

Cocoa  (all  milk) 8  ounces 235 

Cocoa  (milk  &  water) 8  oiM&s 140 

Coffee  (black/unsweetened) , 0 

BREADS  AND  FLOUR  FOODS 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits /  large  or  2  sm 129 

Bran  Muffin 1  medium 106 

Cornbread I /  small  square 130 

Dumplings £;■. 1  medium 70 

Enriched  White  Bread A 1  slice. 60 

French  Bread •#••.•.•• 1  small  slice 54 

French  Toast 1  slice 135 

Macaroni  and  Cheese /  cup 475 

Melba  Toast 1  slice 25 

Noodles  cooked 1  cup 200 

Pancakes  (wheat) ,.■ 1,  4-inch 60 

Raisin  Bread 1  slice 80 

Rye  Bread 1  slice 71 

Saltines 1 17 

Soda  Crackers 1 23 

Waffles 1 216 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 1  slice 55 

BREAKFAST  CEREALS 

Corn  Flakes 1  cup 96 

Cream  of  Wheat 1  cup 120 

Oatmeal. 1  cup 148 

Rice  Flakes 1  cup 105 

Shredded  Wheat 1  biscuit 100 

Sugar  Krisps 3/*cup 110 

FISH  AND  FOWL 

Bass 4  ounces 105 

Brook  Trout 4  ounces 130 

Crabmeat  (canned) 3  ounces 85 

Fish  Sticks 5  sticks  or  4  oz. 200 

Haddock  (baked) 1  fillet. 158 

Haddock  (broiled) 4  ounces  (steak) 207 

Cooking  Hints  21 


CALORIE  COUNTER 

FRUITS 

Apple  (raw) 1  small 70 

Banana 1  medium 85 

Blueberries  (frozen/unsweetened) '/■<>  cup 45 

Cantaloupe  Melon '/?  melon  large 60 

Cherries,  fresh/whole '/2cup 40 

Cranberries  (sauce) 1  cup 54 

Grapes 1  cup 65 

Dates 3  or  4 95 

Grapefruit  (unsweetened) '/* 55 

Orange 1  medium 70 

Peach  (fresh) 1 35 

Plums 2 50 

Tangerine  (fresh) 1 40 

Watermelon 1"  slice 60 

MEATS 

Bacon  (crisp) 2  slices 95 

Frankfurter 1 155 

Hamburger  (avg.  fat/broiled) 3  ounces 245 

Hamburger  (lean/broiled) 3  ounces 185 

Ham  (broiled/lean) 3  ounces 200 

Ham  (baked) 1  slice 100 

Lamb  Leg  Roast. 3  ounces 235 

Lamb  Chop  (rib) 3  ounces 300 

Liver  (fried) 3  '^ounces. 210 

Meat  Loaf. 1  slice 100 

Pork  Chop  (med.) 3  ounces. 340 

Pork  Roast 3  ounces. 310 

Pork  Sausage 3  ounces. 405 

Roasts  (Beef) 

Loin  Roast. 3  'fi  ounces 340 

Pot  Roast  (round) 3  '/?  ounces 200 

Rib  Roast 3  '/ounces 260 

Rump  Roast 3  /4  ounces 340 

Spareribs 1  piece,  3  ribs 123 

Swiss  Steak 3  J/n  ounces... ., 300 

Veal  Chop  (med) ...3  ounces...... 185 

Veal  Roast „ ...3  ounces. ,. ........ .230 

SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 

Apple  and  carrot  (no  dressing) '  '  cup. 100 

Chef  Salad/reg.  oil *,,„—l  Tbsp 160 

Chef  Salad/mayonnaise 1  Tbsp 125 

Chef  Salad/  French,  Roquefort 1  Tbsp 105 

Cole  Slaw  (no  dressing) '/s  cup 102 

Fruit  Gelatin 1  square 139 

Potato  Salad  (no  dressing) '/»  cup. 184 

Waldorf  (no  dressing) '/?  cup... 140 

Boiled  Dressing 1  Tbsp. 28 

French  Dressing 1  Tbsp 60 

Mayonnaise 1  Tbsp 110 

22 


Food  Guide  Pyramid 

A  Guide  to  Daily  Food  Choices 


Fats,  Oils  &  Sweets 
USE  SPARINGLY 


Milk,  Yogurt  & 
Cheese  Group 
2-3  SERVINGS 


Vegetable 
Group 
3-5 
SERVINGS 


KEY 


Fat  (naturally  occur- 
ing  and  added) 


O 

Sugars 
These  symbols  show  fats,  oils,  and  (added) 
added  sugars  in  foods. 


Meat,  Poultry,  Fish, 

Dry  Beans,  Eggs 

&  Nuts  Group 

2-3  SERVINGS 


Fruit  Group 
2-4  SERVINGS 


Bread,  Cereal, 

Rice  &  Pasta 

Group 

6-11 

SERVINGS 


How  to  Use  The  Daily  Food  Guide 


What  counts  as  one  serving? 


Breads,  Cereals,  Rice  and  Pasta 

1  slice  of  bread 

1/2  cup  of  cooked  rice  or  pasta 
1/2  cup  of  cooked  cereal 
1  ounce  of  ready  to  eat  cereal 

Vegetables 

1/2  cup  of  chopped  raw  or 

cooked  vegetables 
1  cup  of  leafy  raw  vegetables 

Fruits 

1  piece  of  fruit  or  melon  wedge 


Milk,  Yogurt  and  Cheese 

1  cup  of  milk  or  yogurt 
1/2  to  1  ounce  of  cheese 


Fats,  Oils  and  Sweets 

LIMIT  CALORIES  FROM  THESE 
especially  if  you  need  to  lose 
weight 


Meat,  Poultry,  Fish,  Dry 

Beans,  Eggs  and  Nuts 

2-1/2  to  3  ounces  of  cooked 
lean  meat,  poultry  or  fish 

Count  1/2  cup  of  cooked  beans, 
or  1  egg,  or  2  tablespoons  of 
peanut  butter  as  1  ounce  of 
lean  meat  (about  1/3  serving) 


The  amount  you  eat  may 
be  more  than  one  serv- 
ing. For  example,  a  din- 
ner portion  of  spaghetti 
would  count  as  two  or 
three  servings  of  pasta. 


Cooking  Hints 


23 


How  many  servings  do  you  need 
each  day? 


Calorie  Level* 

about 
1,600 

about 
2,200 

about 
2,800 

Bread  Group 

6 

9 

11 

Vegetable  Group 

3 

4 

5 

Fruit  Group 

2 

3 

4 

Milk  Group 

**2  -3 

**2-3 

**2  -3 

Meat  Group 

2,  for  a 
total  of 

2,  for  a 
total  of 

3,  for  a 
total  of 

5  ounces 

6  ounces 

7  ounces 

These  are  calorie  levels  if  you  choose  low-fat,  lean  foods  from  the  5 
major  food  groups  and  use  foods  from  the  fats,  oils,  and  sweets 
group  sparingly. 

Women  who  are  pregnant  or  breastfeeding,  teenagers,  and  young 
adults  to  age  24  need  3  servings. 


A  Closer  Look  at  Fat  and 
Added  Sugars 

The  small  tip  of  the  pyramid  shows  fats,  oils,  and  sweets. 
These  are  foods  such  as  salad  dressings,  cream,  butter, 
margarine,   sugars,   soft   drinks,   candies   and   sweet 
desserts.  These  foods  provide  calories,  but  few  vita- 
mins and  minerals.  Most  people  should  go  easy  on 
foods  from  this  group. 

Some  fat  or  sugar  symbols  are  shown  in  the  other 
food  groups.  That's  to  remind  you  that  some  foods 
in  these  groups  can  also  be  high  in  fat  and  added 
sugars,  such  as  cheese  or  ice  cream  from  the 
milk  group.  When  choosing  foods  for  a  diet, 
consider  the  fat  and  added  sugars  in  your 
choices  from  all  the  food  groups,  not  just 
fats,  oils  and  sweets  from  the  Pyramid 
tip. 

24 


:?;Js£rt 


Managing  Your  Sodium  Intake 

Sodium  is  a  mineral  that  your  body  needs  in  only  very  small 

amounts.  Most  Americans  consume  10-15  times  more  sodium 

than  they  need. 

Eating  too  much  sodium  can  be  unhealthy  for  some  people.  It 

may  contribute  to  high  blood  pressure.  In  fact,  reducing  the 

amount  of  sodium  in  your  diet  is  an  important  part  of  treating 

high  blood  pressure. 

Here  are  some  tips  to  help  you  reduce  the  sodium  in  your  diet. 

The  American  Heart  Association  guidelines  suggest  consuming 

no  more  than  a  teaspoon  of  salt. 

•  Use  less  salt  or  no  salt  at  the  table  and  in  cooking. 

•  Use  herbs  and  spices  in  the  place  of  salt.  Refer  to  the  herb  and 
seed  chart. 

•  Limit  your  intake  of  foods  high  in  added  sodium: 

-  canned  and  dried  soups 

-  canned  vegetables 

-  ketchup  and  mustard 

-  salty  snack  foods 

-  olives  and  pickles 

-  luncheon  meats  and  coldcuts 

-  bacon  and  other  cured  meats 

-  cheeses 

-  restaurant  and  carry-out  foods  (such  as  French  fries,  onion 
rings,  hamburgers) 

•  You  can  reduce  the  salt  in  canned  vegetables  by  draining  the 
liquid  and  then  rinsing  them  in  water  before  eating. 

•  Look  for  "unsalted"  varieties  of  the  canned  foods  and  snack 
foods  listed  above.  Some  foods  may  be  labeled  "no  salt"  or 
"without  added  salt." 

•  Ask  restaurants  not  to  add  salt  to  your  order. 

•  Even  bakery  products  and  cereals  can  be  major  sources  of 
sodium  in  the  diet.  So  read  the  labels  of  all  foods  carefully. 


Cooking  Hints  25 


Nutrition  Facts:  Helping 
Consumers  Eat  Smart 

Shopping  and  planning  has  never  been  easy.  And  now,  with  so  many 
people  concerned  about  the  nutrient  contents  of  foods,  the  choices  are 
even  tougher  to  make,  'jBSjjffNH? 

But  now,  new  government  regulations  require  food  manufacturers  and 
processors  to  provide  dietary  information  on  their  food  products,  There 
is  information  on  saturated  fat,  dietary  cholesterol,  fiber  and  other 
nutrients...items  that  relate  to  today's  health  concerns  about  heart  dis- 
ease, cancer  and  other  diseases  linked,  at  least  in  part,  to  diet. 
One  of  the  recent  changes  involves  new  requirements  for  food  labels. 
The  new  food  label  will  have  a  new  name.  Now  it  will  be  called  Nutrition 
Facts.  That  title  will  signal  to  consumers  that  the  product  is  correctly 
labeled  according  to  the  new  Food  and  Drug  Administration  guidelines. 


New  heading  sig- 
nals a  new  label. 

More  consistent 
serving  sizes,  in 
both  household 
and  metric  mea- 
sures, replace 
those  that  used  to 
be  set  by  manufac- 
turers. 

Nutrients 
required  on 
nutrition  panel 
are  those  most 
important  to  the 
health  of  today's 
consumers,    — ► 
most  of  whom 
need  to  worry 
about  getting  too 
much  of  certain 
items  (fat  for 
example),  rather 
than  too  few  vit- 
amins or  miner- 
als, as  in  the 
past. 


Conversion  guide 
helps  consumers 
learn  caloric  value 
of  the  energy-pro- 
ducing nutrients 


Nutrition  Facts 

Serving  Size  1  cup  (228g) 
Servings  Per  Container  2 


Amount  Per  Serving 

Calories  250  Calories  from  Fat  1 1 0 


%  Daily  Value, 


Total  Fat  12g 


18% 


Saturated  Fat  3  g 


15% 


Cholesterol  30  mg 


10% 


Sodium  470  mg 


20% 


Total  Carbohydrate  31  g 


10% 


Dietary  Fiber  Og 


0% 


Sugars  5g 


Protein  5g 


Vitamin  A  4% 


Vitamin  C  2% 


Calcium  20% 


Iron  4% 


Percent  Daily  Values  are  based  on  a  2,000  calorie 
diet.  Your  daily  vajues  may  be  higher  or  lower 
depending  on  your  calorie  needs. 

Calories  2,000  2,500 


Total  Fat        Less  than 
Sat  Fat  Less  Than 

Cholesterol    Less  Than 
Sodium  Less  Than 

Total  Carbohydrate 
Dietary  Fiber 


65g 

20g 

300mg 

2,400mg 

300g 

25g 


25g 
300mg 
2,400mg 
375g 
30g 


Calories  per  gram:        fc 

Fat  9  •  Carbohydrate 


New  mandatory 
component  helps 
consumers  meet 
dietary  guidelines 
recommending  no 
.more  than  30%  of 
calories  from  fat. 


%  Daily  Value 
shows  how  a 
.food  fits  into 
the  overall 
daily  diet. 


Reference  val- 
ues help  con- 
sumers learn 
good  diet 
.  basics.  They 
can  be  adjust- 
ed, depending 
on  a  person's 
calorie  needs. 


26 


The  New  Food  Label  - 
What  to  Look  For 

The  new  food  label  can  serve  as  an  important  guide  to  better 
nutrition,  but  only  if  you  use  it. 
What  should  you  look  for? 

First  of  all,  nutrient  content  claims,  such  as  "low  calorie,"  may 
appear  on  the  front  label.  These  claims  will  signal  -  truthfully  -  if 
a  food  is  high  in  a  nutrient  that  most  of  us  need  to  consume  less 
of.  This  may  be  good  if  you're  trying  to  reduce  your  intake  of 
calories,  fat  or  cholesteroL.or  if  you're  trying  to  eat  more  fiber 
or  potassium. 

Likewise,  health  claims  on  some  labels  will  point  out  a  food's 
nutritional  qualities  that  help  reduce  the  risk  of  certain  long- 
term  diseases, 
such  as  heart  dis- 
ease or  cancer. 
The  "Nutrition 
Facts"  will  give 
more  in-depth 
information  to 
help  you  choose 
foods  that  fit  in 
with  a  more 
healthful  diet. 
Now  it's  easier 
than  ever  to  eat 
healthy  -  just 
read  the  label. 


i 

A  Nutrition  Facts 

1  Serving  Size  1  cup  (228g) 
1  Servings  Per  Container  2 

• 

I  Amount  Per  Serving 

I  Calories  250  Calories  from  Fat  1 1 0 

: 

% 

Daily  Value 

1  Total  Fat  12g 

18% 

Saturated  Fat  3  g 

15% 

§j  Cholesterol  30  mg 

10% 

§  Sodium  470  mg 

20% 

|  Total  Carbohydrate  31  g 

10% 

Dietary  Fiber  Og 

0% 

Sugars  5g 

1  Protein  5g 

I  Vitamin  A  4%           •       Vitamin  C  2% 

I  Calcium  20%           • 

Iron  4% 

I  *  Percent  Daily  Values  are  based  on  a  2,000  calorie 
diet.  Your  daily  values  may  be  higher  or  lower 
depending  on  your  calorie  needs. 

Calories            2,000             2,500 

Total  Fat        Less  than          65g                80g 
Sat  Fat           Less  Than         20g                 25g 
Cholesterol    Less  Than        300mg           300mg 
Sodium          Less  Than        2,400mg       2,400mg 
Total  Carbohydrate                300g              375g 
Dietary  Fiber                         25g                30g 

Calories  per  gram: 
^B       Fat  9                    •  Carbohydrate  • 

Protein 

Cooking  Hints 


27 


The  Key  to  Healthy  Eating 

The  amount  of  certain  nutrients  in  a  food  now  will  be  expressed 
in  two  ways  -  in  terms  of  the  amount  by  weight  per  serving  and 
as  a  percentage  of  the  Daily  Value,  a  new  nutrition  reference  tool. 
Nutrient  amounts  and  percentages  of  the  Daily  Value  describe 
the  content  of  the  particular  food  inside  the  package. 
By  using  the  %  Daily  Values,  you  can  easily  determine 
whether  a  food  contributes  a  lot  or  a  little  of  a  particular  nutri- 
ent. And  you  can  compare  different  foods  with  no  need  to  do 
any  calculations.  A  high  percentage  means  the  food  contains 
a  lot  of  a  nutrient  and  a  low  percentage  means  it  contains  a 
little.  Look  to  see  whether  the  nutrients  most  of  us  need  more 
of  (such  as  carbohydrates,  dietary  fiber,  and  certain  vitamins 
and  minerals)  have  high  percentages.  Look  to  see  whether  the 
nutrients  most  of  us  need  to  limit  (such  as  fat,  saturated  fat, 
cholesterol,  and-for  some  people -sodium)  have  low  percent- 
ages. The  goal  is  to  choose  foods  that  together  give  you  close 
to  100  percent  of  each  nutrient  for  a  day,  or  average  about 
100  percent  a  day  over  a  few  days. 

For  example,  if  your  goal  is  2,000  calories  a  day,  your  total  fat 
intake  would  be  no  more  than  65  grams,  the  upper  limit  rec- 
ommended for  a  2,000-calorie  daily  diet.  If  the  food  you're 
preparing  has  16  grams  of  fat  per  serving  and  shows  the  % 
Daily  Value  for  total  fat  per  serving  at  25  percent,  then  you 
know  that  all  the  other  foods  you  eat  that  day  should  total  75 
percent  or  less  of  the  Daily  Value  for  total  fat  (or  49  grams  of 
fat).  If  your  daily  calorie  goal  is  2,500  calories,  your  daily  value 
for  fat  would  be  higher. 

THE  2,000  CALORIE  BASIS 

The  %  Daily  Values  on  the  nutrition  panel  are  based  on  2,000 
calories  a  day.  Of  course,  not  everyone  eats  this  amount  daily; 
some  eat  more,  some  less.  Your  daily  calorie  needs  depend  on 
many  factors,  such  as  age,  height,  weight,  and  activity  level. 
The  2,000  calorie  diet  is  about  right  for  most  moderately  active 
women,  teenage  girls  and  sedentary  men.  Many  older  adults, 
children  and  sedentary  women  need  fewer  calories  a  day,  per- 
haps only  1,600. 

28 


Nutrient  Content  Claims 

In  an  effort  to  re-establish  the  credibility  of  the  food  label,  the 
FDA  has  established  criteria  for  the  use  of  such  terms  as  lite, 
low  fat,  reduced,  etc.  There  are  several  core  terms  which  are: 

free 

low 

lean 

extra  lean 

high 

good  source 

reduced,  less,  fewer 

more 

light 

Definitions  for  some  of  these  terms  are: 

Free  -  item  is  free  of  nutrient. 

Low  -  a  food  meets  the  definition  for  "low"  if  a  person  can  eat 
large  amounts  of  this  item  without  exceeding  the  Daily  Value 
for  the  nutrient. 

Lean  -  used  to  describe  the  fat  content:  less  than  10  g  of  fat,  4 
g  of  saturated  fat,  less  than  95  mgs  cholesterol.  Extra  lean 
foods  have  less  than  5  g  fat,  less  than  2  g  saturated  fat  and  less 
than  95  mgs  of  cholesterol. 

High  and  Good  Source  -  focus  on  nutrients  for  which  higher 
levels  are  desirable.  The  "High  source"  food  must  contain  20% 
or  more  of  the  Daily  Value  in  a  serving.  "Good  source"  means 
it  must  contain  10-19%. 

Reduced,  Less,  Fewer,  More...  -  these  are  termed  "comparison 
claims"  and  compare  a  nutritionally  altered  food  to  the  regular 
or  "reference"  food.  A  relative  claim  must  include  the  refer- 
ence food  and  the  percentage  difference. 

Light  or  Lite  -  the  product  contains  1/3  fewer  calories  or  1/2 
the  fat  of  the  reference  food...or  the  sodium  content  has  been 
lowered  by  50%. 

JpF 


Cooking  Hints 


29 


Getting  Specific 

Here  are  examples  of  the  meanings  of  some  descriptive  words 
used  in  food  labeling. 


SUGAR 

Sugar 
Free 


Reduced 
Sugar 


Less  than  0.5  grams 
per  serving. 


No  added  sugar 
Without  added  sugar 
No  sugar  added 


At  least  25%  less  sugar 
per  serving  than  reference 
food. 


Processing  does  not 
increase  content 
above  the  amount 
found  naturally. 


CALORIES 

Calorie 
Free 

Low 
Calorie 


Reduced 
Calorie 


Fewer  than  5  calories 
per  serving. 

40  calories  or  less  per 
serving...  or  if  the  serving 
is  30  grams  or  less...  pi 
50  grams  of  the  food, 

At  least  25%  fewer        Fewer 
calories  per  serving  than 
reference  food. 


CHOLESTEROL 


Cholesterol  Free 


Low  Cholesterol 


Reduced  or 
Less  Cholesterol 


Less  than  2  milligrams 
(mg)  of  cholesterol  and 
2  g  of  saturated  fat 
per  serving. 


20  mg  or  less  cholesterol 
and  2  g  or  less  of  saturated  fat 
per  serving  or  per  50  g 
of  food  than  reference  food. 

At  least  25%  less 
cholesterol  and  2  g  or  less 
saturated  fat  per  serving 
than  reference  food. 


30 


FAT 

Fat  Free 
Saturated  Fat  Free 

Low  Fat 

Low  Saturated  Fat 


Reduced  Fat 
Less  Fat 

Reduced  or  Less 
Saturated  Fat 


Less  than  0.5  g  of  fat 


rving. 


Less  than  0.5  g  per  serving  and  the  level 
of  saturated  fatty  acids  does  not  exceed  1% 
of  total  fat. 


SODIUM 

Sodium  Free 

Low  Sodium 

Very  Low  Sodium 

Reduced  or  Less 
Sodium 

FIBER 
High  Fiber 

Good  Source  of  Fiber 
More  or  Added  Fiber 


3  g  less  per  serving...or  per  50  g  of  the  food  if 
serving  is  30  g  or  less,  or  less  than  2  tablespoons. 

1  g  or  less  per  serving  and  not  more  than 
15%  of  calories  from  saturated  fatty  acids. 

At  least  25%  less  per  serving  than  reference  food. 


At  least  25%  less  per  serving  than  reference  food. 


Less  than  5  rag  per  serving. 

140  rag  or  less  per  serving  or  per  50  g  of  food. 

35  mg  or  less^^wE 

At  least  25%  less  per  serving  than  reference  food. 


5  g  or  more  per  serving.  Foods  making  this  claim 
must  meet  the  definition  for  low  fat  or  the  level  of 
fat  must  appear  next  to  the  high  fiber  claim. 

2.5  g  to  4.9  g  of  fiber  per  serving. 

At  least  25%  more  fiber  than  reference  food. 


Cooking  Hints 


31 


894-F 


FAVORITE  RECIPES 


Recipe  Name 


Page  No, 


Notes 


Published  and  Printed  By 
Fundcraft  Publishing 

P.O.  Box  340 
Collierville,  TN  38027 


32 


